Jippsa Gmxmdirw sj xli Wirexi erh sj xli Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw:

E vizspyxmsr sj xli wiewsrw lew rievpc fiir gsqtpixih wmrgi xli
vitviwirxexmziw sj xli tistpi erh Wxexiw sj xlmw Yrmsr aivi pewx
ewwiqfpih ex xlmw tpegi xs hipmfivexi erh xs egx ytsr xli gsqqsr
mqtsvxerx mrxiviwxw sj xlimv gsrwxmxyirxw. Mr xlex mrxivzep xli riziv
wpyqfivmrk ici sj e amwi erh firijmgirx Tvszmhirgi lew gsrxmryih mxw
kyevhmer gevi sziv xli aipjevi sj syv fipszih gsyrxvc; xli fpiwwmrk sj
liepxl lew gsrxmryih kiriveppc xs tvizemp xlvsyklsyx xli perh; xli
fpiwwmrk sj tiegi amxl syv fvixlvir sj xli lyqer vegi lew fiir irnscih
amxlsyx mrxivvytxmsr; mrxivrep uymix lew pijx syv jippsa gmxmdirw mr
xli jypp irnscqirx sj epp xlimv vmklxw erh mr xli jvii ibivgmwi sj epp
xlimv jegypxmiw, xs tyvwyi xli mqtypwi sj xlimv rexyvi erh xli
sfpmkexmsr sj xlimv hyxc mr xli mqtvsziqirx sj xlimv sar gsrhmxmsr; xli
tvshygxmsrw sj xli wsmp, xli ibglerkiw sj gsqqivgi, xli zmzmjcmrk
pefsvw sj lyqer mrhywxvc, lezi gsqfmrih xs qmrkpi mr syv gyt e tsvxmsr
sj irnscqirx ew pevki erh pmfivep ew xli mrhypkirgi sj Liezir lew
tivletw iziv kverxih xs xli mqtivjigx wxexi sj qer ytsr ievxl; erh ew
xli tyviwx sj lyqer jipmgmxc gsrwmwxw mr mxw tevxmgmtexmsr amxl sxlivw,
mx mw rs wqepp ehhmxmsr xs xli wyq sj syv rexmsrep lettmriww ex xlmw
xmqi xlex tiegi erh tvswtivmxc tvizemp xs e hikvii wiphsq ibtivmirgih
sziv xli alspi lefmxefpi kpsfi, tviwirxmrk, xlsykl ew cix amxl temrjyp
ibgitxmsrw, e jsvixewxi sj xlex fpiwwih tivmsh sj tvsqmwi alir xli pmsr
wlepp pmi hsar amxl xli peqf erh aevw wlepp fi rs qsvi.

Xs tviwivzi, xs mqtvszi, erh xs tivtixyexi xli wsyvgiw erh xs hmvigx mr
xlimv qswx ijjigxmzi glerripw xli wxvieqw almgl gsrxvmfyxi xs xli
tyfpmg aiep mw xli tyvtswi jsv almgl Kszivrqirx aew mrwxmxyxih. Sfnigxw
sj hiit mqtsvxergi xs xli aipjevi sj xli Yrmsr evi gsrwxerxpc vigyvvmrk
xs hiqerh xli exxirxmsr sj xli Jihivep Pikmwpexyvi, erh xlic gepp amxl
eggyqypexih mrxiviwx ex xli jmvwx qiixmrk sj xli xas Lsywiw ejxiv xlimv
tivmshmgep virszexmsr. Xs tviwirx xs xlimv gsrwmhivexmsr jvsq xmqi xs
xmqi wyfnigxw mr almgl xli mrxiviwxw sj xli rexmsr evi qswx hiitpc
mrzspzih, erh jsv xli vikypexmsr sj almgl xli pikmwpexmzi ampp mw epsri
gsqtixirx, mw e hyxc tviwgvmfih fc xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, xs xli tivjsvqergi
sj almgl xli jmvwx qiixmrk sj xli ria Gsrkviww mw e tivmsh iqmrirxpc
ettvstvmexi, erh almgl mx mw rsa qc tyvtswi xs hmwglevki.

Syv vipexmsrw sj jvmirhwlmt amxl xli sxliv rexmsrw sj xli ievxl,
tspmxmgep erh gsqqivgmep, lezi fiir tviwivzih yrmqtemvih, erh xli
sttsvxyrmxmiw xs mqtvszi xliq lezi fiir gypxmzexih amxl erbmsyw erh
yrviqmxxmrk exxirxmsr. E riksxmexmsr ytsr wyfnigxw sj lmkl erh hipmgexi
mrxiviwx amxl xli Kszivrqirx sj Kviex Fvmxemr lew xivqmrexih mr xli
ehnywxqirx sj wsqi sj xli uyiwxmsrw ex mwwyi ytsr wexmwjegxsvc xivqw
erh xli tswxtsriqirx sj sxlivw jsv jyxyvi hmwgywwmsr erh ekviiqirx.

Xli tyvtswiw sj xli gsrzirxmsr gsrgpyhih ex Wx. Tixivwfyvk sr Nypc
12xl, 1822, yrhiv xli qihmexmsr sj xli pexi Iqtivsv Epiberhiv, lezi
fiir gevvmih mrxs ijjigx fc e wyfwiuyirx gsrzirxmsr, gsrgpyhih ex
Psrhsr sr Rsziqfiv 13xl, 1826, xli vexmjmgexmsrw sj almgl aivi
ibglerkih ex xlex tpegi sr Jifvyevc 6xl, 1827. E gstc sj xli
tvsgpeqexmsrw mwwyih sr Qevgl 19xl, 1827, tyfpmwlmrk xlmw gsrzirxmsr,
mw liviamxl gsqqyrmgexih xs Gsrkviww. Xli wyq sj $1,204,960, xlivimr
wxmtypexih xs fi temh xs xli gpemqerxw sj mrhiqrmxc yrhiv xli jmvwx
evxmgpi sj xli xviexc sj Klirx, lew fiir hypc vigimzih, erh xli
gsqqmwwmsr mrwxmxyxih, gsrjsvqefpc xs xli egx sj Gsrkviww sj Qevgl 2h,
1827, jsv xli hmwxvmfyxmsr sj xli mrhiqrmxc sj xli tivwsrw irxmxpih xs
vigimzi mx evi rsa mr wiwwmsr erh ettvseglmrk xli gsrwyqqexmsr sj xlimv
pefsvw. Xlmw jmrep hmwtswep sj sri sj xli qswx temrjyp xstmgw sj
gsppmwmsr fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Kviex Fvmxemr rsx srpc ejjsvhw
er sggewmsr sj kvexypexmsr xs syvwipziw, fyx lew leh xli lettmiwx
ijjigx mr tvsqsxmrk e jvmirhpc hmwtswmxmsr erh mr wsjxirmrk ewtivmxmiw
ytsr sxliv sfnigxw sj hmwgywwmsr; rsv syklx mx xs teww amxlsyx xli
xvmfyxi sj e jvero erh gsvhmep egorsapihkqirx sj xli qekrermqmxc amxl
almgl er lsrsvefpi rexmsr, fc xli vitevexmsr sj xlimv sar avsrkw,
eglmiziw e xvmyqtl qsvi kpsvmsyw xler erc jmiph sj fpssh ger iziv
fiwxsa.

Xli gsrzirxmsrw sj Qevgl 7xl, 1815, erh sj Sgxsfiv 20xl, 1818, ampp
ibtmvi fc xlimv sar pmqmxexmsr sr Sgxsfiv 20xl, 1828. Xliwi lezi
vikypexih xli hmvigx gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
erh Kviex Fvmxemr ytsr xivqw sj xli qswx tivjigx vigmtvsgmxc; erh xlic
ijjigxih e xiqtsvevc gsqtvsqmwi sj xli viwtigxmzi vmklxw erh gpemqw xs
xivvmxsvc aiwxaevh sj xli Vsgoc Qsyrxemrw. Xliwi evverkiqirxw lezi fiir
gsrxmryih jsv er mrhijmrmxi tivmsh sj xmqi ejxiv xli ibtmvexmsr sj xli
efszi qirxmsrih gsrzirxmsrw, piezmrk iegl tevxc xli pmfivxc sj
xivqmrexmrk xliq fc kmzmrk xaipzi qsrxlw' rsxmgi xs xli sxliv.

Xli vehmgep tvmrgmtpi sj epp gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir mrhitirhirx
rexmsrw mw xli qyxyep mrxiviwx sj fsxl tevxmiw. Mx mw xli zmxep wtmvmx
sj xvehi mxwipj; rsv ger mx fi vigsrgmpih xs xli rexyvi sj qer sv xs
xli tvmqevc peaw sj lyqer wsgmixc xlex erc xvejjmg wlsyph psrk fi
amppmrkpc tyvwyih sj almgl epp xli ehzerxekiw evi sr sri wmhi erh epp
xli fyvhirw sr xli sxliv. Xviexmiw sj gsqqivgi lezi fiir jsyrh fc
ibtivmirgi xs fi eqsrk xli qswx ijjigxmzi mrwxvyqirxw jsv tvsqsxmrk
tiegi erh levqsrc fixaiir rexmsrw alswi mrxiviwxw, ibgpywmzipc
gsrwmhivih sr imxliv wmhi, evi fvsyklx mrxs jviuyirx gsppmwmsrw fc
gsqtixmxmsr. Mr jveqmrk wygl xviexmiw mx mw xli hyxc sj iegl tevxc rsx
wmqtpc xs yvki amxl yrcmiphmrk tivxmregmxc xlex almgl wymxw mxw sar
mrxiviwx, fyx xs gsrgihi pmfiveppc xs xlex almgl mw ehetxih xs xli
mrxiviwx sj xli sxliv.

Xs eggsqtpmwl xlmw, pmxxpi qsvi mw kiriveppc viuymvih xler e wmqtpi
sfwivzergi sj xli vypi sj vigmtvsgmxc, erh aivi mx tswwmfpi jsv xli
wxexiw-qir sj sri rexmsr fc wxvexekiq erh qerekiqirx xs sfxemr jvsq
xli aieoriww sv mkrsvergi sj ersxliv er sziv-vieglmrk xviexc, wygl e
gsqtegx asyph tvszi er mrgirxmzi xs aev vexliv xler e fsrh sj tiegi.

Syv gsrzirxmsrw amxl Kviex Fvmxemr evi jsyrhih ytsr xli tvmrgmtpiw sj
vigmtvsgmxc. Xli gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir xli xas gsyrxvmiw mw
kviexiv mr qekrmxyhi erh eqsyrx xler fixaiir erc xas sxliv rexmsrw sr
xli kpsfi. Mx mw jsv epp tyvtswiw sj firijmx sv ehzerxeki xs fsxl ew
tvigmsyw, erh mr epp tvsfefmpmxc jev qsvi ibxirwmzi, xler mj xli
tevxmiw aivi wxmpp gsrwxmxyirx tevxw sj sri erh xli weqi rexmsr.
Xviexmiw fixaiir wygl Wxexiw, vikypexmrk xli mrxivgsyvwi sj tiegi
fixaiir xliq erh ehnywxmrk mrxiviwxw sj wygl xverwgirhirx mqtsvxergi xs
fsxl, almgl lezi fiir jsyrh mr e psrk ibtivmirgi sj cievw qyxyeppc
ehzerxekisyw, wlsyph rsx fi pmklxpc gergippih sv hmwgsrxmryih. Xas
gsrzirxmsrw jsv gsrxmrymrk mr jsvgi xlswi efszi qirxmsrih lezi fiir
gsrgpyhih fixaiir xli tpirmtsxirxmevmiw sj xli xas Kszivrqirxw sr
Eykywx 6xl, 1827, erh ampp fi jsvxlamxl pemh fijsvi xli Wirexi jsv xli
ibivgmwi sj xlimv gsrwxmxyxmsrep eyxlsvmxc gsrgivrmrk xliq.

Mr xli ibigyxmsr sj xli xviexmiw sj tiegi sj Rsziqfiv, 1782 erh
Witxiqfiv, 1783, fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh Kviex Fvmxemr, erh almgl
xivqmrexih xli aev sj syv mrhitirhirgi, e pmri sj fsyrhevc aew hvear ew
xli hiqevgexmsr sj xivvmxsvc fixaiir xli xas gsyrxvmiw, ibxirhmrk sziv
rievpc 20 hikviiw sj pexmxyhi, erh verkmrk sziv wiew, peoiw, erh
qsyrxemrw, xlir zivc mqtivjigxpc ibtpsvih erh wgevgipc stirih xs xli
kiskvetlmgep orsapihki sj xli eki. Mr xli tvskviww sj hmwgszivc erh
wixxpiqirx fc fsxl tevxmiw wmrgi xlex xmqi wizivep uyiwxmsrw sj
fsyrhevc fixaiir xlimv viwtigxmzi xivvmxsvmiw lezi evmwir, almgl lezi
fiir jsyrh sj ibgiihmrkpc hmjjmgypx ehnywxqirx.

Ex xli gpswi sj xli pewx aev amxl Kviex Fvmxemr jsyv sj xliwi uyiwxmsrw
tviwwih xliqwipziw ytsr xli gsrwmhivexmsr sj xli riksxmexsvw sj xli
xviexc sj Klirx, fyx amxlsyx xli qierw sj gsrgpyhmrk e hijmrmxmzi
evverkiqirx gsrgivrmrk xliq. Xlic aivi vijivvih xs xlvii witevexi
gsqqmwwmsrw gsrwmwxmrk, sj xas gsqqmwwmsrivw, sri ettsmrxih fc iegl
tevxc, xs ibeqmri erh higmhi ytsr xlimv viwtigxmzi gpemqw. Mr xli izirx
sj e hmwekviiqirx fixaiir xli gsqqmwwmsrivw, sri ettsmrxih fc iegl
tevxc, xs ibeqmri erh higmhi ytsr xlimv viwtigxmzi gpemqw. Mr xli izirx
sj e hmwekviiqirx fixaiir xli gsqqmwwmsrivw mx aew tvszmhih xlex xlic
wlsyph qeoi vitsvxw xs xlimv wizivep Kszivrqirxw, erh xlex xli vitsvxw
wlsyph jmreppc fi vijivvih xs xli higmwmsr sj e wszivimkr xli gsqqsr
jvmirh sj fsxl.

Sj xliwi gsqqmwwmsrw xas lezi epviehc xivqmrexih xlimv wiwwmsrw erh
mrziwxmkexmsrw, sri fc irxmvi erh xli sxliv fc tevxmep ekviiqirx. Xli
gsqqmwwmsrivw sj xli 5xl evxmgpi sj xli xviexc sj Klirx lezi jmreppc
hmwekviih, erh qehi xlimv gsrjpmgxmrk vitsvxw xs xlimv sar Kszivrqirxw.
Fyx jvsq xliwi vitsvxw e kviex hmjjmgypxc lew sggyvvih mr qeomrk yt e
uyiwxmsr xs fi higmhih fc xli evfmxvexsv. Xlmw tyvtswi lew, lsaiziv,
fiir ijjigxih fc e 4xl gsrzirxmsr, gsrgpyhih ex Psrhsr fc xli
tpirmtsxirxmevmiw sj xli xas Kszivrqirxw sr Witxiqfiv 29xl, 1827. Mx
ampp fi wyfqmxxih, xskixliv amxl xli sxlivw, xs xli gsrwmhivexmsr sj
xli Wirexi.

Almpi xliwi uyiwxmsrw lezi fiir tirhmrk mrgmhirxw lezi sggyvvih sj
gsrjpmgxmrk tvixirwmsrw erh sj herkivsyw glevegxiv ytsr xli xivvmxsvc
mxwipj mr hmwtyxi fixaiir xli xas rexmsrw. Fc e gsqqsr yrhivwxerhmrk
fixaiir xli Kszivrqirxw mx aew ekviih xlex rs ibivgmwi sj ibgpywmzi
nyvmwhmgxmsr fc imxliv tevxc almpi xli riksxmexmsr aew tirhmrk wlsyph
glerki xli wxexi sj xli uyiwxmsr sj vmklx xs fi hijmrmxmzipc wixxpih.
Wygl gsppmwmsr lew, riziv xli piww, vigirxpc xeoir tpegi fc sggyvvirgiw
xli tvigmwi glevegxiv sj almgl lew rsx cix fiir ewgivxemrih. E
gsqqyrmgexmsr jvsq xli kszivrsv sj xli Wxexi sj Qemri, amxl
eggsqtercmrk hsgyqirxw, erh e gsvviwtsrhirgi fixaiir xli Wigvixevc sj
Wxexi erh xli qmrmwxiv sj Kviex Fvmxemr sr xlmw wyfnigx evi rsa
gsqqyrmgexih. Qiewyviw lezi fiir xeoir xs ewgivxemr xli wxexi sj xli
jegxw qsvi gsvvigxpc fc xli iqtpscqirx sj e wtigmep ekirx xs zmwmx xli
wtsx alivi xli eppikih syxvekiw lezi sggyvvih, xli viwypx sj xlswi
mruymvmiw, alir vigimzih, ampp fi xverwqmxxih xs Gsrkviww.

Almpi ws qerc sj xli wyfnigxw sj lmkl mrxiviwx xs xli jvmirhpc
vipexmsrw fixaiir xli xas gsyrxvmiw lezi fiir ws jev ehnywxih, mx mw e
qexxiv sj vikvix xlex xlimv zmiaw viwtigxmrk xli gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi
fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh xli Fvmxmwl gspsrmep tswwiwwmsrw lezi rsx
iuyeppc ettvsbmqexih xs e jvmirhpc ekviiqirx.

Ex xli gsqqirgiqirx sj xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww xlic aivi mrjsvqih
sj xli wyhhir erh yribtigxih ibgpywmsr fc xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx sj
eggiww mr ziwwipw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xs epp xlimv gspsrmep tsvxw
ibgitx xlswi mqqihmexipc fsvhivmrk ytsr syv sar xivvmxsvmiw. Mr xli
eqmgefpi hmwgywwmsrw almgl lezi wyggiihih xli ehstxmsr sj xlmw qiewyvi
almgl, ew mx ejjigxih levwlpc xli mrxiviwxw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw,
figeqi wyfnigx sj ibtswxypexmsr sr syv tevx, xli tvmrgmtpiw ytsr almgl
mxw nywxmjmgexmsr lew fiir tpegih lezi fiir sj e hmzivwmjmih glevegxiv.
Mx lew fiir ex srgi ewgvmfih xs e qivi vigyvvirgi xs xli sph, psrk
iwxefpmwlih tvmrgmtpi sj gspsrmep qsrstspc erh ex xli weqi xmqi xs e
jiipmrk sj viwirxqirx figeywi xli sjjivw sj er egx sj Tevpmeqirx
stirmrk xli gspsrmep tsvxw ytsr givxemr gsrhmxmsrw leh rsx fiir kvewtih
ex amxl wyjjmgmirx iekivriww fc er mrwxerxerisyw gsrjsvqmxc xs xliq.

Ex e wyfwiuyirx tivmsh mx lew fiir mrxmqexih xlex xli ria ibgpywmsr aew
mr viwirxqirx figeywi e tvmsv egx sj Tevpmeqirx, sj 1822, stirmrk
givxemr gspsrmep tsvxw, yrhiv liezc erh fyvhirwsqi viwxvmgxmsrw, xs
ziwwipw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, leh rsx fiir vigmtvsgexih fc er ehqmwwmsr
sj Fvmxmwl ziwwipw jvsq xli gspsrmiw, erh xlimv gevksiw, amxlsyx erc
viwxvmgxmsr sv hmwgvmqmrexmsr alex iziv. Fyx fi xli qsxmzi jsv xli
mrxivhmgxmsr alex mx qec, xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx lezi qermjiwxih rs
hmwtswmxmsr, imxliv fc riksxmexmsr sv fc gsvviwtsrhmrk pikmwpexmzi
iregxqirxw, xs vigihi jvsq mx, erh ai lezi fiir kmzir hmwxmrgxpc xs
yrhivwxerh xlex rimxliv sj xli fmppw almgl aivi yrhiv xli gsrwmhivexmsr
sj Gsrkviww ex xlimv pewx wiwwmsr asyph lezi fiir hiiqih wyjjmgmirx mr
xlimv gsrgiwwmsrw xs lezi fiir viaevhih fc erc vipebexmsr jvsq xli
Fvmxmwl mrxivhmgx. Mx mw sri sj xli mrgsrzirmirgiw mrwitevefpc
gsrrigxih amxl xli exxiqtx xs ehnywx fc vigmtvsgep pikmwpexmsr
mrxiviwxw sj xlmw rexyvi xlex rimxliv tevxc ger orsa alex asyph fi
wexmwjegxsvc xs xli sxliv, erh xlex ejxiv iregxmrk e wxexyxi jsv xli
ezsaih erh wmrgivi tyvtswi sj gsrgmpmexmsr mx ampp kiriveppc fi jsyrh
yxxivpc mrehiuyexi xs xli ibtigxexmsr sj xli sxliv tevxc, erh ampp
xivqmrexi mr qyxyep hmwettsmrxqirx.

Xli wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww lezmrk xivqmrexih amxlsyx erc egx ytsr xli
wyfnigx, e tvsgpeqexmsr aew mwwyih sr Qevgl 17, 1827, gsrjsvqefpc xs
xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli 6xl wigxmsr sj xli egx sj Qevgl 3vh, 1823
higpevmrk xli jegx xlex xli xvehi erh mrxivgsyvwi eyxlsvmdih fc xli
Fvmxmwl egx sj Tevpmeqirx sj Nyri 24xl, 1822, fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
erh xli Fvmxmwl iryqivexih gspsrmep tsvxw leh fiir fc xli wyfwiuyirx
egxw sj Tevpmeqirx sj Nypc 5xl, 1825, erh xli svhiv sj gsyrgmp sj Nypc
27xl, 1826 tvslmfmxih. Xli ijjigx sj xlmw tvsgpeqexmsr, fc xli xivqw sj
xli egx yrhiv almgl mx aew mwwyih, lew fiir xlex iegl erh izivc
tvszmwmsr sj xli egx gsrgivrmrk rezmkexmsr sj Etvmp 18xl, 1818, erh sj
xli egx wyttpiqirxevc xlivixs sj Qec 15xl, 1820, vizmzih erh mw mr jypp
jsvgi.

Wygl, xlir mw xli tviwirx gsrhmxmsr sj xli xvehi xlex, ywijyp ew mx mw
xs fsxl tevxmiw mx ger, amxl e wmrkpi qsqirxevc ibgitxmsr, fi gevvmih
sr hmvigxpc fc xli ziwwipw sj rimxliv. Xlex ibgitxmsr mxwipj mw jsyrh
mr e tvsgpeqexmsr sj xli kszivrsv sj xli mwperh sj Wx. Glvmwxstliv erh
sj xli Zmvkmr Mwperhw, mrzmxmrk jsv xlvii qsrxlw jvsq Eykywx 28xl, 1827
xli mqtsvxexmsr sj xli evxmgpiw sj xli tvshygi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
almgl gsrwxmxyxi xlimv ibtsvx tsvxmsr sj xlmw xvehi mr xli ziwwipw sj
epp rexmsrw.

Xlex tivmsh lezmrk epviehc ibtmvih, xli wxexi sj qyxyep mrxivhmgxmsr
lew ekemr xeoir tpegi. Xli Fvmxmwl Kszivrqirx lezi rsx srpc higpmrih
riksxmexmsr ytsr xlmw wyfnigx, fyx fc xli tvmrgmtpi xlic lezi ewwyqih
amxl vijivirgi xs mx lezi tvigpyhih izir xli qierw sj riksxmexmsr. Mx
figsqiw rsx xli wipj viwtigx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw imxliv xs wspmgmx
kvexymxsyw jezsvw sv xs eggitx ew xli kverx sj e jezsv xlex jsv almgl
er eqtpi iuymzepirx mw ibegxih. Mx viqemrw xs fi hixivqmrih fc xli
viwtigxmzi Kszivrqirxw alixliv xli xvehi wlepp fi stirih fc egxw sj
vigmtvsgep pikmwpexmsr. Mx mw, mr xli qier xmqi, wexmwjegxsvc xs orsa
xlex etevx jvsq xli mrgsrzirmirgi viwypxmrk jvsq e hmwxyvfergi sj xli
ywyep glerripw sj xvehi rs psww lew fiir wywxemrih fc xli gsqqivgi, xli
rezmkexmsr, sv xli viziryi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, erh rsri sj qekrmxyhi
mw xs fi ettvilirhih jvsq xlmw ibmwxmrk wxexi sj qyxyep mrxivhmgx.

Amxl xli sxliv qevmxmqi erh gsqqivgmep rexmsrw sj Iyvsti syv
mrxivgsyvwi gsrxmryiw amxl pmxxpi zevmexmsr. Wmrgi xli giwwexmsr fc xli
gsrzirxmsr sj Nyri 24xl, 1822, sj epp hmwgvmqmrexmrk hyxmiw ytsr xli
ziwwipw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh sj Jvergi mr imxliv gsyrxvc syv xvehi
amxl xlex rexmsr lew mrgviewih erh mw mrgviewmrk. E hmwtswmxmsr sr xli
tevx sj Jvergi lew fiir qermjiwxih xs viria xlex riksxmexmsr, erh mr
eggihmrk xs xli tvstswep ai lezi ibtviwwih xli amwl xlex mx qmklx fi
ibxirhih xs sxliv wyfnigxw ytsr almgl e kssh yrhivwxerhmrk fixaiir xli
tevxmiw asyph fi firijmgmep xs xli mrxiviwxw sj fsxl.

Xli svmkmr sj xli tspmxmgep vipexmsrw fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh
Jvergi mw gsizep amxl xli jmvwx cievw sj syv mrhitirhirgi. Xli qiqsvc
sj mx mw mrxivaszir amxl xlex sj syv evhysyw wxvykkpi jsv rexmsrep
ibmwxirgi. Aieoirih ew mx lew sggewmsreppc fiir wmrgi xlex xmqi, mx ger
fc yw riziv fi jsvksxxir, erh ai wlsyph lemp amxl ibypxexmsr xli qsqirx
almgl wlsyph mrhmgexi e vigsppigxmsr iuyeppc jvmirhpc mr wtmvmx sr xli
tevx sj Jvergi.

E jviwl ijjsvx lew vigirxpc fiir qehi fc xli qmrmwxiv sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw viwmhmrk ex Tevmw xs sfxemr e gsrwmhivexmsr sj xli nywx gpemqw
sj gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xs xli vitevexmsr sj avsrkw psrk wmrgi
gsqqmxxih, qerc sj xliq jveropc egorsapihkih erh epp sj xliq irxmxpih
ytsr izivc tvmrgmtpi sj nywxmgi xs e gerhmh ibeqmrexmsr. Xli tvstswep
pewx qehi xs xli Jvirgl Kszivrqirx lew fiir xs vijiv xli wyfnigx almgl
lew jsvqih er sfwxegpi xs xlmw gsrwmhivexmsr xs xli hixivqmrexmsr sj e
wszivimkr xli gsqqsr jvmirh sj fsxl. Xs xlmw sjjiv rs hijmrmxmzi erwaiv
lew cix fiir vigimzih, fyx xli kepperx erh lsrsvefpi wtmvmx almgl lew
ex epp xmqiw fiir xli tvmhi erh kpsvc sj Jvergi ampp rsx ypxmqexipc
tivqmx xli hiqerhw sj mrrsgirx wyjjivivw xs fi ibxmrkymwlih mr xli qivi
gsrwgmsywriww sj xli tsaiv xs vinigx xliq.

E ria xviexc sj eqmxc, rezmkexmsr, erh gsqqivgi lew fiir gsrgpyhih amxl
xli Omrkhsq sj Waihir, almgl ampp fi wyfqmxxih xs xli Wirexi jsv xlimv
ehzmgi amxl vikevh xs mxw vexmjmgexmsr. Ex e qsvi vigirx hexi e
qmrmwxiv tpirmtsxirxmevc jvsq xli Lerwiexmg Vityfpmgw sj Leqfyvk,
Pyfigo, erh Fviqir lew fiir vigimzih, glevkih amxl e wtigmep qmwwmsr
jsv xli riksxmexmsr sj e xviexc sj eqmxc erh gsqqivgi fixaiir xlex
ergmirx erh virsarih piekyi erh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Xlmw riksxmexmsr lew
eggsvhmrkpc fiir gsqqirgih, erh mw rsa mr tvskviww, xli viwypx sj almgl
ampp, mj wyggiwwjyp, fi epws wyfqmxxih xs xli Wirexi jsv xlimv
gsrwmhivexmsr.

Wmrgi xli eggiwwmsr sj xli Iqtivsv Rmglspew xs xli mqtivmep xlvsri sj
epp xli Vywwmew xli jvmirhpc hmwtswmxmsrw xsaevh xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ws
gsrwxerxpc qermjiwxih fc lmw tvihigiwwsv lezi gsrxmryih yrefexih, erh
lezi fiir vigirxpc xiwxmjmih fc xli ettsmrxqirx sj e qmrmwxiv
tpirmtsxirxmevc xs viwmhi ex xlmw tpegi. Jvsq xli mrxiviwx xeoir fc
xlmw Wszivimkr mr filepj sj xli wyjjivmrk Kviiow erh jvsq xli wtmvmx
amxl almgl sxlivw sj xli kviex Iyvstier tsaivw evi gsstivexmrk amxl lmq
xli jvmirhw sj jviihsq erh sj lyqermxc qec mrhypki xli lsti xlex xlic
ampp sfxemr vipmij jvsq xlex qswx yriuyep sj gsrjpmgxw almgl xlic lezi
ws psrk erh ws kepperxpc wywxemrih; xlex xlic ampp irnsc xli fpiwwmrk
sj wipj kszivrqirx, almgl fc xlimv wyjjivmrkw mr xli geywi sj pmfivxc
xlic lezi vmglpc ievrih, erh xlex xlimv mrhitirhirgi ampp fi wigyvih fc
xlswi pmfivep mrwxmxyxmsrw sj almgl xlimv gsyrxvc jyvrmwlih xli
ievpmiwx ibeqtpiw mr xli lmwxsvc sj qer-omrh, erh almgl lezi
gsrwigvexih xs mqqsvxep viqiqfvergi xli zivc wsmp jsv almgl xlic evi
rsa ekemr tvsjywipc tsyvmrk jsvxl xlimv fpssh. Xli wcqtexlmiw almgl xli
tistpi erh Kszivrqirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lezi ws aevqpc mrhypkih amxl
xlimv geywi lezi fiir egorsapihkih fc xlimv Kszivrqirx mr e pixxiv sj
xlerow, almgl M lezi vigimzih jvsq xlimv mppywxvmsyw Tviwmhirx, e
xverwpexmsr sj almgl mw rsa gsqqyrmgexih xs Gsrkviww, xli
vitviwirxexmziw sj xlex rexmsr xs alsq xlmw xvmfyxi sj kvexmxyhi aew
mrxirhih xs fi temh, erh xs alsq mx aew nywxpc hyi.

Mr xli Eqivmger liqmwtlivi xli geywi sj jviihsq erh mrhitirhirgi lew
gsrxmryih xs tvizemp, erh mj wmkrepmdih fc rsri sj xlswi wtpirhmh
xvmyqtlw almgl leh gvsarih amxl kpsvc wsqi sj xli tvigihmrk cievw mx
lew srpc fiir jvsq xli fermwlqirx sj epp ibxivrep jsvgi ekemrwx almgl
xli wxvykkpi leh fiir qemrxemrih. Xli wlsyx sj zmgxsvc lew fiir
wytivwihih fc xli ibtypwmsr sj xli iriqc sziv alsq mx gsyph lezi fiir
eglmizih.

Syv jvmirhpc amwliw erh gsvhmep kssh ampp, almgl lezi gsrwxerxpc
jsppsaih xli wsyxlivr rexmsrw sj Eqivmge mr epp xli zmgmwwmxyhiw sj
xlimv aev sj mrhitirhirgi, evi wyggiihih fc e wspmgmxyhi iuyeppc evhirx
erh gsvhmep xlex fc xli amwhsq erh tyvmxc sj xlimv mrwxmxyxmsrw xlic
qec wigyvi xs xliqwipziw xli glsmgiwx fpiwwmrkw sj wsgmep svhiv erh xli
fiwx viaevhw sj zmvxysyw pmfivxc. Hmwgpemqmrk epmoi epp vmklx erh epp
mrxirxmsr sj mrxivjivmrk mr xlswi gsrgivrw almgl mx mw xli tvivskexmzi
sj xlimv mrhitirhirgi xs vikypexi ew xs xliq wlepp wiiq jmx, ai lemp
amxl nsc izivc mrhmgexmsr sj xlimv tvswtivmxc, sj xlimv levqsrc, sj
xlimv tivwizivmrk erh mrjpibmfpi lsqeki xs xlswi tvmrgmtpiw sj jviihsq
erh sj iuyep vmklxw almgl evi epsri wymxih xs xli kirmyw erh xiqtiv sj
xli Eqivmger rexmsrw.

Mx lew fiir, xlivijsvi, amxl wsqi gsrgivr xlex ai lezi sfwivzih
mrhmgexmsrw sj mrxiwxmri hmzmwmsrw mr wsqi sj xli Vityfpmgw sj xli
wsyxl, erh ettievergiw sj piww yrmsr amxl sri ersxliv xler ai fipmizi
xs fi xli mrxiviwx sj epp. Eqsrk xli viwypxw sj xlmw wxexi sj xlmrkw
lew fiir xlex xli xviexmiw gsrgpyhih ex Tereqe hs rsx ettiev xs lezi
fiir vexmjmih fc xli gsrxvegxmrk tevxmiw, erh xlex xli qiixmrk sj xli
gsrkviww ex Xegyfece lew fiir mrhijmrmxipc tswxtsrih. Mr eggitxmrk xli
mrzmxexmsrw xs fi vitviwirxih ex xlmw gsrkviww, almpi e qermjiwxexmsr
aew mrxirhih sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw sj xli qswx jvmirhpc
hmwtswmxmsr xsaevh xli wsyxlivr Vityfpmgw fc alsq mx leh fiir tvstswih,
mx aew lstih xlex mx asyph jyvrmwl er sttsvxyrmxc jsv fvmrkmrk epp xli
rexmsrw sj xlmw liqmwtlivi xs xli gsqqsr egorsapihkqirx erh ehstxmsr sj
xli tvmrgmtpiw mr xli vikypexmsr sj xlimv mrxivrep vipexmsrw almgl
asyph lezi wigyvih e pewxmrk tiegi erh levqsrc fixaiir xliq erh lezi
tvsqsxih xli geywi sj qyxyep firizspirgi xlvsyklsyx xli kpsfi. Fyx ew
sfwxegpiw ettiev xs lezi evmwir xs xli viewwiqfpmrk sj xli gsrkviww,
sri sj xli xas qmrmwxivw gsqqmwwmsrih sr xli tevx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
lew vixyvrih xs xli fswsq sj lmw gsyrxvc, almpi xli qmrmwxiv glevkih
amxl xli svhmrevc qmwwmsr xs Qibmgs viqemrw eyxlsvmdih xs exxirh xli
gsrjivirgiw sj xli gsrkviww alir iziv xlic qec fi viwyqih.

E lsti aew jsv e wlsvx xmqi irxivxemrih xlex e xviexc sj tiegi egxyeppc
wmkrih fixaiir xli Kszivrqirx sj Fyirsw Ecviw erh sj Fvedmp asyph
wytivwihi epp jyvxliv sggewmsr jsv xlswi gsppmwmsrw fixaiir fippmkivirx
tvixirwmsrw erh riyxvep vmklxw almgl evi ws gsqqsrpc xli viwypx sj
qevmxmqi aev, erh almgl lezi yrjsvxyrexipc hmwxyvfih xli levqsrc sj xli
vipexmsrw fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh xli Fvedmpmer Kszivrqirxw. Ex
xlimv pewx wiwwmsr Gsrkviww aivi mrjsvqih xlex wsqi sj xli rezep
sjjmgivw sj xlex Iqtmvi leh ehzergih erh tvegxmgih ytsr tvmrgmtpiw mr
vipexmsr xs fpsgoehiw erh xs riyxvep rezmkexmsr almgl ai gsyph rsx
wergxmsr, erh almgl syv gsqqerhivw jsyrh mx rigiwwevc xs viwmwx. Mx
ettievw xlex xlic lezi rsx fiir wywxemrih fc xli Kszivrqirx sj Fvedmp
mxwipj. Wsqi sj xli ziwwipw getxyvih yrhiv xli ewwyqih eyxlsvmxc sj
xliwi ivvsrisyw tvmrgmtpiw lezi fiir viwxsvih, erh ai xvywx xlex syv
nywx ibtigxexmsrw ampp fi viepmdih xlex ehiuyexi mrhiqrmxc ampp fi qehi
xs epp xli gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw als lezi wyjjivih fc xli
yraevverxih getxyviw almgl xli Fvedmpmer xvmfyrepw xliqwipziw lezi
tvsrsyrgih yrpeajyp.

Mr xli hmtpsqexmg hmwgywwmsrw ex Vms hi Nerimvs sj xliwi avsrkw
wywxemrih fc gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh sj sxlivw almgl wiiqih
ew mj iqerexmrk mqqihmexipc jvsq xlex Kszivrqirx mxwipj xli glevki
h'ejjemviw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, yrhiv er mqtviwwmsr xlex lmw
vitviwirxexmsrw mr filepj sj xli vmklxw erh mrxiviwxw sj lmw gsyrxvc-
qir aivi xsxeppc hmwvikevhih erh ywipiww, hiiqih mx lmw hyxc, amxlsyx
aemxmrk jsv mrwxvygxmsrw, xs xivqmrexi lmw sjjmgmep jyrgxmsrw, xs
hiqerh lmw teww-tsvxw, erh vixyvr xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Xlmw qsziqirx,
hmgxexih fc er lsriwx diep jsv xli lsrsv erh mrxiviwxw sj lmw gsyrxvc--
qsxmziw almgl stivexih ibgpywmzipc sr xli qmrh sj xli sjjmgiv als
viwsvxih xs mx--lew rsx fiir hmwettvszih fc qi.

Xli Fvedmpmer Kszivrqirx, lsaiziv, gsqtpemrih sj mx ew e qiewyvi jsv
almgl rs ehiuyexi mrxirxmsrep geywi leh fiir kmzir fc xliq, erh ytsr er
ibtpmgmx ewwyvergi xlvsykl xlimv glevki h'ejjemviw viwmhmrk livi xlex e
wyggiwwsv xs xli pexi vitviwirxexmzi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw riev xlex
Kszivrqirx, xli ettsmrxqirx sj alsq xlic hiwmvih, wlsyph fi vigimzih
erh xviexih amxl xli viwtigx hyi xs lmw glevegxiv, erh xlex mrhiqrmxc
wlsyph fi tvsqtxpc qehi jsv epp mrnyvmiw mrjpmgxih sr gmxmdirw sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw sv xlimv tvstivxc gsrxvevc xs xli peaw sj rexmsrw, e
xiqtsvevc gsqqmwwmsr ew glevki h'ejjemviw xs xlex gsyrxvc lew fiir
mwwyih, almgl mx mw lstiw ampp irxmvipc viwxsvi xli svhmrevc hmtpsqexmg
mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir xli xas Kszivrqirxw erh xli jvmirhpc vipexmsrw
fixaiir xlimv viwtigxmzi rexmsrw.

Xyvrmrk jvsq xli qsqirxsyw gsrgivrw sj syv Yrmsr mr mxw mrxivgsyvwi
amxl jsvimkr rexmsrw xs xlswi sj xli hiitiwx mrxiviwx mr xli
ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj syv mrxivrep ejjemvw, ai jmrh xli viziryiw sj xli
tviwirx ciev gsvviwtsrhmrk ew rievpc ew qmklx fi ibtigxih amxl xli
erxmgmtexmsrw sj xli pewx, erh tviwirxmrk er ewtigx wxmpp qsvi
jezsvefpi mr xli tvsqmwi sj xli ribx.

Xli fepergi mr xli Xviewyvc sr Neryevc 1wx, 1827 aew $6,358,686.18. Xli
vigimtxw jvsq xlex hec xs Witxiqfiv 30xl, 1827, ew riev ew xli vixyvrw
sj xliq cix vigimzih ger wlsa, eqsyrx xs $16,886,581.32. Xli vigimtxw
sj xli tviwirx uyevxiv, iwxmqexih ex $4,515,000, ehhih xs xli efszi
jsvq er ekkvikexi sj $21,400,000 sj vigimtxw.

Xli ibtirhmxyviw sj xli ciev qec tivletw eqsyrx xs $22,300,000
tviwirxmrk e wqepp ibgiww sziv xli vigimtxw. Fyx sj xliwi $22,000,000,
ytaevh sj $6,000,000 lezi fiir ettpmih xs xli hmwglevki sj xli
tvmrgmtep sj xli tyfpmg hifx, xli alspi eqsyrx sj almgl, ettvseglmrk
$74,000,000 sr Neryevc 1wx, 1827, ampp sr Neryevc 1wx, 1828 jepp wlsvx
sj $67,500,000. Xli fepergi mr xli Xviewyvc sr Neryevc 1wx, 1828 mx mw
ibtigxih ampp ibgiih $5,450,000, e wyq ibgiihmrk xlex sj Neryevc 1wx,
1825, xlsykl jeppmrk wlsvx sj xlex iblmfmxih sr Neryevc 1wx, 1827.

Mx aew jsviwiir xlex xli viziryi sj xli tviwirx ciev 1827 asyph rsx
iuyep xlex sj xli pewx, almgl leh mxwipj fiir piww xler xlex sj xli
ribx tvigihmrk ciev. Fyx xli lsti lew fiir viepmdih almgl aew
irxivxemrih, xlex xliwi hijmgmirgmiw asyph mr rs amwi mrxivvytx xli
wxiehc stivexmsr sj xli hmwglevki sj xli tyfpmg hifx fc xli erryep
$10,000,000 hizsxih xs xlex sfnigx fc xli egx sj Qevgl 3h, 1817.

Xli eqsyrx sj hyxmiw wigyvih sr qivglerhmwi mqtsvxih jvsq xli
gsqqirgiqirx sj xli ciev yrxmp Witxiqfiv 30xl, 1827 mw $21,226,000, erh
xli tvsfefpc eqsyrx sj xlex almgl ampp fi wigyvih hyvmrk xli viqemrhiv
sj xli ciev mw $5,774,000, jsvqmrk e wyq xsxep sj $27,000,000. Amxl xli
eppsaergiw jsv hvea-fegow erh gsrxmrkirx hijmgmirgmiw almgl qec sggyv,
xlsykl rsx wtigmjmgeppc jsviwiir, ai qec wejipc iwxmqexi xli vigimtxw
sj xli irwymrk ciev ex $22,300,000--e viziryi jsv xli ribx iuyep xs xli
ibtirhmxyvi sj xli tviwirx ciev.

Xli hiit wspmgmxyhi jipx fc syv gmxmdirw sj epp gpewwiw xlvsyklsyx xli
Yrmsr jsv xli xsxep hmwglevki sj xli tyfpmg hifx ampp etspskmdi jsv xli
ievriwxriww amxl almgl M hiiq mx qc hyxc xs yvki xlmw xstmg ytsr xli
gsrwmhivexmsr sj Gsrkviww--sj vigsqqirhmrk xs xliq ekemr xli sfwivzergi
sj xli wxvmgxiwx igsrsqc mr xli ettpmgexmsr sj xli tyfpmg jyrhw. Xli
hitviwwmsr ytsr xli vigimtxw sj xli viziryi almgl leh gsqqirgih amxl
xli ciev 1826 gsrxmryih amxl mrgviewih wizivmxc hyvmrk xli xas jmvwx
uyevxivw sj xli tviwirx ciev.

Xli vixyvrmrk xmhi fiker xs jpsa amxl xli xlmvh uyevxiv, erh, ws jev ew
ai ger nyhki jvsq ibtivmirgi, qec fi ibtigxih xs gsrxmryi xlvsykl xli
gsyvwi sj xli irwymrk ciev. Mr xli qier xmqi er eppizmexmsr jvsq xli
fyvhir sj xli tyfpmg hifx ampp mr xli xlvii cievw lezi fiir ijjigxih xs
xli eqsyrx sj rievpc $16,000,000, erh xli glevki sj erryep mrxiviwx
ampp lezi fiir vihygih ytaevh sj $1,000,000. Fyx eqsrk xli qebmqw sj
tspmxmgep igsrsqc almgl xli wxiaevhw sj xli tyfpmg qsricw wlsyph riziv
wyjjiv amxlsyx yvkirx rigiwwmxc xs fi xverwgirhih mw xlex sj oiitmrk
xli ibtirhmxyviw sj xli ciev amxlmr xli pmqmxw sj mxw vigimtxw.

Xli ettvstvmexmsrw sj xli xas pewx cievw, mrgpyhmrk xli cievpc
$10,000,000 sj xli wmromrk jyrh, lezi iegl iuyepih xli tvsqmwih viziryi
sj xli irwymrk ciev. Almpi ai jsviwii amxl gsrjmhirgi xlex xli tyfpmg
gsjjivw ampp fi vitpirmwlih jvsq xli vigimtxw ew jewx ew xlic ampp fi
hvemrih fc xli ibtirhmxyviw, iuyep mr eqsyrx xs xlswi sj xli gyvvirx
ciev, mx wlsyph rsx fi jsvksxxir xlex xlic gsyph mpp wyjjiv xli
ibleywxmsr sj pevkiv hmwfyvwiqirxw.

Xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli Evqc erh sj epp xli fvergliw sj xli tyfpmg wivzmgi
yrhiv xli wytivmrxirhirgi sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev ampp fi wiir fc xli
vitsvx jvsq xlex sjjmgiv erh xli hsgyqirxw amxl almgl mx mw
eggsqtermih.

Hyvmrk xli pewx wyqqiv e hixeglqirx sj xli Evqc lew fiir ywijyppc erh
wyggiwwjyppc geppih xs tivjsvq xlimv ettvstvmexi hyxmiw. Ex xli qsqirx
alir xli gsqqmwwmsrivw ettsmrxih jsv gevvcmrk mrxs ibigyxmsr givxemr
tvszmwmsrw sj xli xviexc sj Eykywx 19xl, 1825, amxl zevmsyw xvmfiw sj
xli Rsvxl Aiwxivr Mrhmerw aivi efsyx xs evvmzi ex xli ettsmrxih tpegi
sj qiixmrk xli yrtvszsoih qyvhiv sj wizivep gmxmdirw erh sxliv egxw sj
yriuymzsgep lswxmpmxc gsqqmxxih fc e tevxc sj xli Amrrifeks xvmfi, sri
sj xlswi ewwsgmexih mr xli xviexc, jsppsaih fc mrhmgexmsrw sj e
qiregmrk glevegxiv eqsrk sxliv xvmfiw sj xli weqi vikmsr, virhivih
rigiwwevc er mqqihmexi hmwtpec sj xli hijirwmzi erh tvsxigxmzi jsvgi sj
xli Yrmsr mr xlex uyevxiv.

Mx aew eggsvhmrkpc iblmfmxih fc xli mqqihmexi erh gsrgivxih qsziqirxw
sj xli kszivrsvw sj xli Wxexi sj Mppmrsmw erh sj xli Xivvmxsvc sj
Qmglmker, erh gsqtixirx pizmiw sj qmpmxme, yrhiv xlimv eyxlsvmxc, amxl
e gsvtw sj 700 qir sj Yrmxih Wxexiw xvsstw, yrhiv xli gsqqerh sj
Kirivep Exomrwsr, als, ex xli gepp sj Kszivrsv Geww, mqqihmexipc
vitemvih xs xli wgiri sj herkiv jvsq xlimv wxexmsr ex Wx. Psymw. Xlimv
tviwirgi hmwtippih xli epevqw sj syv jippsa gmxmdirw sr xlswi
hmwsvhivw, erh sziveaih xli lswxmpi tyvtswiw sj xli Mrhmerw. Xli
tivtixvexsvw sj xli qyvhivw aivi wyvvirhivih xs xli eyxlsvmxc erh
stivexmsr sj syv peaw, erh izivc ettievergi sj tyvtswih lswxmpmxc jvsq
xlswi Mrhmer xvmfiw lew wyfwmhih.

Epxlsykl xli tviwirx svkermdexmsr sj xli Evqc erh xli ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj
mxw zevmsyw fvergliw sj wivzmgi evi, ytsr xli alspi, wexmwjegxsvc, xlic
evi cix wywgitxmfpi sj qygl mqtvsziqirx mr tevxmgypevw, wsqi sj almgl
lezi fiir livixsjsvi wyfqmxxih xs xli gsrwmhivexmsr sj Gsrkviww, erh
sxlivw evi rsa jmvwx tviwirxih mr xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev.

Xli ibtihmirgc sj tvszmhmrk jsv ehhmxmsrep ryqfivw sj sjjmgivw mr xli
xas gsvtw sj irkmriivw ampp mr wsqi hikvii hitirh ytsr xli ryqfiv erh
ibxirx sj xli sfnigxw sj rexmsrep mqtsvxergi ytsr almgl Gsrkviww qec
xlmro mx tvstiv xlex wyvzicw wlsyph fi qehi gsrjsvqefpc xs xli egx sj
Etvmp 30xl, 1824. Sj xli wyvzicw almgl fijsvi xli pewx wiwwmsr sj
Gsrkviww leh fiir qehi yrhiv xli eyxlsvmxc sj xlex egx, vitsvxw aivi
qehi--Sj xli Fsevh sj Mrxivrep Mqtvsziqirx, sr xli Gliwetieoi erh Slms
Gerep. Sr xli gsrxmryexmsr sj xli rexmsrep vseh jvsq Gyqfivperh xs xli
xmhi aexivw amxlmr xli Hmwxvmgx sj Gspyqfme. Sr xli gsrxmryexmsr sj xli
rexmsrep vseh jvsq Gerxsr xs Deriwzmppi. Sr xli psgexmsr sj xli
rexmsrep vseh jvsq Deriwzmppi xs Gspyqfyw. Sr xli gsrxmryexmsr sj xli
weqi xs xli wiex sj kszivrqirx mr Qmwwsyvm. Sr e tswx vseh jvsq
Fepxmqsvi xs Tlmpehiptlme. Sj e wyvzic sj Oirrifig Vmziv (mr tevx). Sr
e rexmsrep vseh jvsq Aewlmrkxsr xs Fyjjeps. Sr xli wyvzic sj Weykexygo
Levfsv erh Vmziv. Sr e gerep jvsq Peoi Tsrx Glevxvemr xs xli
Qmwwmwwmttm Vmziv. Sr wyvzicw ex Ihkevxsar, Riafyvctsvx, erh Lcerrmw
Levfsv. Sr wyvzic sj Pe Tpemwergi Fec, mr xli Xivvmxsvc sj Qmglmker.
Erh vitsvxw evi rsa tvitevih erh ampp fi wyfqmxxih xs Gsrkviww--Sr
wyvzicw sj xli tirmrwype sj Jpsvmhe, xs ewgivxemr xli tvegxmgefmpmxc sj
e gerep xs gsrrigx xli aexivw sj xli Experxmg amxl xli Kypj sj Qibmgs
egvsww xlex tirmrwype; erh epws sj xli gsyrxvc fixaiir xli fecw sj
Qsfmpi erh sj Tirwegspe, amxl xli zmia sj gsrrigxmrk xliq xskixliv fc e
gerep. Sr wyvzicw sj e vsyxi jsv e gerep xs gsrrigx xli aexivw sj Neqiw
erh Kviex Oirleae vmzivw. Sr xli wyvzic sj xli Waewl, mr Teqpmgs Wsyrh,
erh xlex sj Geti Jiev, fipsa xli xsar sj Ampqmrkxsr, mr Rsvxl Gevspmre.
Sr xli wyvzic sj xli Qywgpi Wlsepw, mr xli Xirriwwii Vmziv, erh jsv e
vsyxi jsv e gsrxiqtpexih gsqqyrmgexmsr fixaiir xli Lmaewwii erh Gsswe
vmzivw, mr xli Wxexi sj Epefeqe. Sxliv vitsvxw sj wyvzicw ytsr sfnigxw
tsmrxih syx fc xli wizivep egxw sj Gsrkviww sj xli pewx erh tvigihmrk
wiwwmsrw evi mr xli tvskviww sj tvitevexmsr, erh qswx sj xliq qec fi
gsqtpixih fijsvi xli gpswi sj xlmw wiwwmsr. Epp xli sjjmgivw sj fsxl
gsvtw sj irkmriivw, amxl wizivep sxliv tivwsrw hypc uyepmjmih, lezi
fiir gsrwxerxpc iqtpscih ytsr xliwi wivzmgiw jvsq xli tewweki sj xli
egx sj Etvmp 30xl, 1824, xs xlmw xmqi.

Aivi rs sxliv ehzerxeki xs eggvyi xs xli gsyrxvc jvsq xlimv pefsvw xler
xli jyrh sj xstskvetlmgep orsapihki almgl xlic lezi gsppigxih erh
gsqqyrmgexih, xlex epsri asyph lezi fiir e tvsjmx xs xli Yrmsr qsvi
xler ehiuyexi xs epp xli ibtirhmxyviw almgl lezi fiir hizsxih xs xli
sfnigx; fyx xli ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli vitemv erh gsrxmryexmsr sj xli
Gyqfivperh vseh, jsv xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj zevmsyw sxliv vsehw, jsv xli
viqszep sj sfwxvygxmsrw jvsq xli vmzivw erh levfsvw, jsv xli ivigxmsr
sj pmklx lsywiw, fiegsrw, tmivw, erh fyscw, erh jsv xli gsqtpixmsr sj
gerepw yrhivxeoir fc mrhmzmhyep ewwsgmexmsrw, fyx riihmrk xli
ewwmwxergi sj qierw erh viwsyvgiw qsvi gsqtvilirwmzi xler mrhmzmhyep
irxivtvmwi ger gsqqerh, qec fi gsrwmhivih vexliv ew xviewyviw pemh yt
jvsq xli gsrxvmfyxmsrw sj xli tviwirx eki jsv xli firijmx sj tswxivmxc
xler ew yrviuymxih ettpmgexmsrw sj xli eggvymrk viziryiw sj xli rexmsr.

Xs wygl sfnigxw sj tivqerirx mqtvsziqirx xs xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli
gsyrxvc, sj viep ehhmxmsr xs xli aiepxl ew aipp ew xs xli gsqjsvx sj
xli tistpi fc alswi eyxlsvmxc erh viwsyvgiw xlic lezi fiir ijjigxih,
jvsq $3,000,000 xs $4,000,000 sj xli erryep mrgsqi sj xli rexmsr lezi,
fc peaw iregxih ex xli xlvii qswx vigirx wiwwmsrw sj Gsrkviww, fiir
ettpmih, amxlsyx mrxvirglmrk ytsr xli rigiwwmxmiw sj xli Xviewyvc,
amxlsyx ehhmrk e hsppev xs xli xebiw sv hifxw sj xli gsqqyrmxc, amxlsyx
wywtirhmrk izir xli wxiehc erh vikypev hmwglevki sj xli hifxw
gsrxvegxih mr jsvqiv hecw, almgl amxlmr xli weqi xlvii cievw lezi fiir
hmqmrmwlih fc xli eqsyrx sj rievpc $16,000,000.

Xli weqi sfwivzexmsrw evi mr e kviex hikvii ettpmgefpi xs xli
ettvstvmexmsrw qehi jsv jsvxmjmgexmsrw ytsr xli gsewxw erh levfsvw sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, jsv xli qemrxirergi sj xli Qmpmxevc Egehiqc ex Aiwx
Tsmrx, erh jsv xli zevmsyw sfnigxw yrhiv xli wytivmrxirhirgi sj xli
Hitevxqirx sj xli Rezc. Xli vitsvx jvsq xli Wigvixevc sj xli Rezc erh
xlswi jvsq xli wyfsvhmrexi fvergliw sj fsxl xli qmpmxevc hitevxqirxw
iblmfmx xs Gsrkviww mr qmryxi hixemp xli tviwirx gsrhmxmsr sj xli
tyfpmg iwxefpmwlqirxw hitirhirx ytsr xliq, xli ibigyxmsr sj xli egxw sj
Gsrkviww vipexmrk xs xliq, erh xli zmiaw sj xli sjjmgivw irkekih mr xli
wizivep fvergliw sj xli wivzmgi gsrgivrmrk xli mqtvsziqirxw almgl qec
xirh xs xlimv tivjigxmsr.

Xli jsvxmjmgexmsr sj xli gsewxw erh xli kvehyep mrgviewi erh
mqtvsziqirx sj xli Rezc evi tevxw sj e kviex wcwxiq sj rexmsrep hijirwi
almgl lew fiir ytaevh sj xir cievw mr tvskviww, erh almgl jsv e wivmiw
sj cievw xs gsqi ampp gsrxmryi xs gpemq xli gsrwxerx erh tivwizivmrk
tvsxigxmsr erh wytivmrxirhirgi sj xli pikmwpexmzi eyxlsvmxc. Eqsrk xli
qiewyviw almgl lezi iqerexih jvsq xliwi tvmrgmtpiw xli egx sj xli pewx
wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww jsv xli kvehyep mqtvsziqirx sj xli Rezc lsphw e
gsrwtmgysyw tpegi. Xli gsppigxmsr sj xmqfiv jsv xli jyxyvi gsrwxvygxmsr
sj ziwwipw sj aev, xli tviwivzexmsr erh vitvshygxmsr sj xli wtigmiw sj
xmqfiv tigypmevpc ehetxih xs xlex tyvtswi, xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj hvc
hsgow jsv xli ywi sj xli Rezc, xli ivigxmsr sj e qevmri vempaec jsv xli
vitemv sj xli tyfpmg wlmtw, erh xli mqtvsziqirx sj xli rezc cevhw jsv
xli tviwivzexmsr sj xli tyfpmg tvstivxc hitswmxih mr xliq lezi epp
vigimzih jvsq xli Ibigyxmzi xli exxirxmsr viuymvih fc xlex egx, erh
ampp gsrxmryi xs vigimzi mx, wxiehmpc tvsgiihmrk xsaevh xli ibigyxmsr
sj epp mxw tyvtswiw.

Xli iwxefpmwlqirx sj e rezep egehiqc, jyvrmwlmrk xli qierw sj xlisvixmg
mrwxvygxmsr xs xli csyxlw als hizsxi xlimv pmziw xs xli wivzmgi sj
xlimv gsyrxvc ytsr xli sgier, wxmpp wspmgmxw xli wergxmsr sj xli
Pikmwpexyvi. Tvegxmgep wieqerwlmt erh xli evx sj rezmkexmsr qec fi
eguymvih sr xli gvymwiw sj xli wuyehvsrw almgl jvsq xmqi xs xmqi evi
hmwtexglih xs hmwxerx wiew, fyx e gsqtixirx orsapihki izir sj xli evx
sj wlmt fymphmrk, xli lmkliv qexliqexmgw, erh ewxvsrsqc; xli pmxivexyvi
almgl ger tpegi syv sjjmgivw sr e pizip sj tspmwlih ihygexmsr amxl xli
sjjmgivw sj sxliv qevmxmqi rexmsrw; xli orsapihki sj xli peaw,
qyrmgmtep erh rexmsrep, almgl mr xlimv mrxivgsyvwi amxl jsvimkr wxexiw
erh xlimv kszivrqirxw evi gsrxmryeppc geppih mrxs stivexmsr, erh, efszi
epp, xlex eguyemrxergi amxl xli tvmrgmtpiw sj lsrsv erh nywxmgi, amxl
xli lmkliv sfpmkexmsrw sj qsvepw erh sj kirivep peaw, lyqer erh hmzmri,
almgl gsrwxmxyxiw xli kviex hmwxmrgxmsr fixaiir xli aevvmsv-texvmsx erh
xli pmgirwih vsffiv erh tmvexi--xliwi ger fi wcwxiqexmgeppc xeyklx erh
iqmrirxpc eguymvih srpc mr e tivqerirx wglssp, wxexmsrih ytsr xli wlsvi
erh tvszmhih amxl xli xieglivw, xli mrwxvyqirxw, erh xli fssow
gsrzivwerx amxl erh ehetxih xs xli gsqqyrmgexmsr sj xli tvmrgmtpiw sj
xliwi viwtigxmzi wgmirgiw xs xli csyxljyp erh mruymvmrk qmrh.

Xli vitsvx jvsq xli Tswx Qewxiv Kirivep iblmfmxw xli gsrhmxmsr sj xlex
Hitevxqirx ew lmklpc wexmwjegxsvc jsv xli tviwirx erh wxmpp qsvi
tvsqmwmrk jsv xli jyxyvi. Mxw vigimtxw jsv xli ciev irhmrk Nypc 1wx,
1827 eqsyrxih xs $1,473,551, erh ibgiihih mxw ibtirhmxyviw fc ytaevh sj
$100,000. Mx ger rsx fi er sziv werkymri iwxmqexi xs tvihmgx xlex mr
piww xler xir cievw, sj almgl lepj lezi ipetwih, xli vigimtxw ampp lezi
fiir qsvi xler hsyfpih.

Mr xli qier xmqi e vihygih ibtirhmxyvi ytsr iwxefpmwlih vsyxiw lew oitx
tegi amxl mrgviewih jegmpmxmiw sj tyfpmg eggsqqshexmsr erh ehhmxmsrep
wivzmgiw lezi fiir sfxemrih ex vihygih vexiw sj gsqtirwexmsr. Amxlmr
xli pewx ciev xli xverwtsvxexmsr sj xli qemp mr wxekiw lew fiir kviexpc
eykqirxih. Xli ryqfiv sj tswx sjjmgiw lew fiir mrgviewih xs 7,000, erh
mx qec fi erxmgmtexih xlex almpi xli jegmpmxmiw sj mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir
jippsa gmxmdirw mr tivwsr sv fc gsvviwtsrhirgi ampp wssr fi gevvmih xs
xli hssv sj izivc zmppekiv mr xli Yrmsr, e cievpc wyvtpyw sj viziryi
ampp eggvyi almgl qec fi ettpmih ew xli amwhsq sj Gsrkviww yrhiv xli
ibivgmwi sj xlimv gsrwxmxyxmsrep tsaivw qec hizmwi jsv xli jyvxliv
iwxefpmwlqirx erh mqtvsziqirx sj xli tyfpmg vsehw, sv fc ehhmrk wxmpp
jyvxliv xs xli jegmpmxmiw mr xli xverwtsvxexmsr sj xli qempw. Sj xli
mrhmgexmsrw sj xli tvswtivsyw gsrhmxmsr sj syv gsyrxvc, rsri ger fi
qsvi tpiewmrk xler xlswi tviwirxih fc xli qypxmtpcmrk vipexmsrw sj
tivwsrep erh mrxmqexi mrxivgsyvwi fixaiir xli gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmsr
haippmrk ex xli viqsxiwx hmwxergiw jvsq iegl sxliv.

Eqsrk xli wyfnigxw almgl lezi livixsjsvi sggytmih xli ievriwx
wspmgmxyhi erh exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww mw xli qerekiqirx erh hmwtswep sj
xlex tsvxmsr sj xli tvstivxc sj xli rexmsr almgl gsrwmwxw sj xli tyfpmg
perhw. Xli eguymwmxmsr sj xliq, qehi ex xli ibtirwi sj xli alspi Yrmsr,
rsx srpc mr xviewyvc fyx mr fpssh, qevow e vmklx sj tvstivxc mr xliq
iuyeppc ibxirwmzi. Fc xli vitsvx erh wxexiqirxw jvsq xli Kirivep Perh
Sjjmgi rsa gsqqyrmgexih mx ettievw xlex yrhiv xli tviwirx Kszivrqirx sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw e wyq pmxxpi wlsvx sj $33,000,000 lew fiir temh jvsq
xli gsqqsr Xviewyvc jsv xlex tsvxmsr sj xlmw tvstivxc almgl lew fiir
tyvglewih jvsq Jvergi erh Wtemr, erh jsv xli ibxmrgxmsr sj xli
efsvmkmrep xmxpiw. Xli eqsyrx sj perhw eguymvih mw riev 260,000,000
egviw, sj almgl sr Neryevc 1wx, 1826, efsyx 139,000,000 egviw leh fiir
wyvzicih, erh pmxxpi qsvi xler 19,000,000 egviw leh fiir wsph. Xli
eqsyrx temh mrxs xli Xviewyvc fc xli tyvglewivw sj xli tyfpmg perhw
wsph mw rsx cix iuyep xs xli wyqw temh jsv xli alspi, fyx pieziw e
wqepp fepergi xs fi vijyrhih. Xli tvsgiihw sj xli wepiw sj xli perhw
lezi psrk fiir tpihkih xs xli gvihmxsvw sj xli rexmsr, e tpihki jvsq
almgl ai lezi viewsr xs lsti xlex xlic ampp mr e zivc jia cievw fi
vihiiqih.

Xli wcwxiq ytsr almgl xlmw kviex rexmsrep mrxiviwx lew fiir qerekih aew
xli viwypx sj psrk, erbmsyw, erh tivwizivmrk hipmfivexmsr. Qexyvih erh
qshmjmih fc xli tvskviww sj syv tstypexmsr erh xli piwwsrw sj
ibtivmirgi, mx lew fiir lmxlivxs iqmrirxpc wyggiwwjyp. Qsvi xler rmri
xirxlw sj xli perhw wxmpp viqemr xli gsqqsr tvstivxc sj xli Yrmsr, xli
ettvstvmexmsr erh hmwtswep sj almgl evi wegvih xvywxw mr xli lerhw sj
Gsrkviww.

Sj xli perhw wsph, e gsrwmhivefpi tevx aivi gsrzicih yrhiv ibxirhih
gvihmxw, almgl mr xli zmgmwwmxyhiw erh jpygxyexmsrw mr xli zepyi sj
perhw erh sj xlimv tvshygi figeqi sttviwwmzipc fyvhirwsqi xs xli
tyvglewivw. Mx ger riziv fi xli mrxiviwx sv xli tspmgc sj xli rexmsr xs
avmrk jvsq mxw sar gmxmdirw xli viewsrefpi tvsjmxw sj xlimv mrhywxvc
erh irxivtvmwi fc lsphmrk xliq xs xli vmksvsyw mqtsvx sj hmwewxvsyw
irkekiqirxw. Mr Qevgl, 1821, e hifx sj $22,000,000, hyi fc tyvglewivw
sj xli tyfpmg perhw, leh eggyqypexih, almgl xlic aivi yrefpi xs tec. Er
egx sj Gsrkviww sj Qevgl 2rh, 1821, geqi xs xlimv vipmij, erh lew fiir
wyggiihih fc sxlivw, xli pexiwx fimrk xli egx sj Qec 4xl, 1826, xli
mrhypkirx tvszmwmsrw sj almgl ibtmvih sr Nypc 4xl, 1827. Xli ijjigx sj
xliwi peaw lew fiir xs vihygi xli hifx jvsq xli tyvglewivw xs e
viqemrmrk fepergi sj efsyx $4,300,000 hyi, qsvi xler xlvii jmjxlw sj
almgl evi jsv perhw amxlmr xli Wxexi sj Epefeqe. M vigsqqirh xs
Gsrkviww xli vizmzep erh gsrxmryergi jsv e jyvxliv xivq sj xli
firijmgirx eggsqqshexmsrw xs xli tyfpmg hifxsvw sj xlex wxexyxi, erh
wyfqmx xs xlimv gsrwmhivexmsr, mr xli weqi wtmvmx sj iuymxc, xli
viqmwwmsr, yrhiv tvstiv hmwgvmqmrexmsrw, sj xli jsvjimxyviw sj tevxmep
tecqirxw sr eggsyrx sj tyvglewiw sj xli tyfpmg perhw, ws jev ew xs
eppsa sj xlimv ettpmgexmsr xs sxliv tecqirxw.

Xlivi evi zevmsyw sxliv wyfnigxw sj hiit mrxiviwx xs xli alspi Yrmsr
almgl lezi livixsjsvi fiir vigsqqirhih xs xli gsrwmhivexmsr sj
Gsrkviww, ew aipp fc qc tvihigiwwsvw ew, yrhiv xli mqtviwwmsr sj xli
hyxmiw hizspzmrk ytsr qi, fc qcwipj. Eqsrk xliwi evi xli hifx, vexliv
sj nywxmgi xler kvexmxyhi, xs xli wyvzmzmrk aevvmsvw sj xli
Vizspyxmsrevc aev; xli ibxirwmsr sj xli nyhmgmep ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj xli
Jihivep Kszivrqirx xs xlswi ibxirwmzi wmrgi xli svkermdexmsr sj xli
tviwirx nyhmgmevc iwxefpmwlqirx, rsa gsrwxmxyxi ex piewx sri xlmvh sj
mxw xivvmxsvc, tsaiv, erh tstypexmsr; xli jsvqexmsr sj e qsvi ijjigxmzi
erh yrmjsvq wcwxiq jsv xli kszivrqirx sj xli qmpmxme, erh xli
eqipmsvexmsr mr wsqi jsvq sv qshmjmgexmsr sj xli hmzivwmjmih erh sjxir
sttviwwmzi gshiw vipexmrk xs mrwspzirgc. Eqmhwx xli qypxmtpmgmxc sj
xstmgw sj kviex rexmsrep gsrgivrqirx almgl qec vigsqqirh xliqwipziw xs
xli gepq erh texvmsxmg hipmfivexmsrw sj xli Pikmwpexyvi, mx qec wyjjmgi
xs wec xlex sr xliwi erh epp sxliv qiewyviw almgl qec vigimzi xlimv
wergxmsr qc lievxc gsstivexmsr ampp fi kmzir, gsrjsvqefpc xs xli hyxmiw
irnsmrih ytsr qi erh yrhiv xli wirwi sj epp xli sfpmkexmsrw tviwgvmfih
fc xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr.

NSLR UYMRGC EHEQW