Sqzfxqyqz ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp Sqzfxqyqz ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

U ime rad eayq fuyq mbbdqtqzeuhq ftmf uf iagxp nq zqoqeemdk, az mooagzf ar
ftq oazfmsuage euowzqee ituot mrrxuofqp ftq oufk ar Btuxmpqxbtum, fa
oazhqzq ftq Zmfuazmx Xqsuexmfgdq mf eayq aftqd bxmoq. Ftue yqmegdq uf ime
pqeudmnxq fa mhaup, nqomgeq uf iagxp aoomeuaz ygot bgnxuo uzoazhqzuqzoq mzp
m oazeupqdmnxq bgnxuo qjbqzeq mzp mpp fa ftq omxmyufuqe ar ftq uztmnufmzfe
ar ftue oufk, itaeq egrrqduzse ygef tmhq qjoufqp ftq ekybmftk ar mxx ftqud
rqxxai oufulqze. Ftqdqradq, mrfqd fmwuzs yqmegdqe fa meoqdfmuz ftq efmfq
mzp pqoxuzq ar ftq euowzqee, U baefbazqp yk pqfqdyuzmfuaz, tmhuzs tabqe,
zai tmbbuxk dqmxulqp, ftmf, iuftagf tmlmdp fa ftq xuhqe ad tqmxft ar ftq
yqynqde, Oazsdqee yustf meeqynxq mf ftue bxmoq, itqdq uf ime zqjf nk xmi fa
yqqf. U egnyuf, taiqhqd, fa kagd oazeupqdmfuaz itqftqd m baiqd fa baefbazq
ftq yqqfuzs ar Oazsdqee, iuftagf bmeeuzs ftq fuyq rujqp nk ftq Oazefufgfuaz
gbaz egot aoomeuaze, iagxp zaf nq m geqrgx myqzpyqzf fa ftq xmi ar 1794.

Mxftagst U omz zaf kqf oazsdmfgxmfq kag az ftq dqqefmnxuetyqzf ar bqmoq uz
Qgdabq mzp ftq dqefadmfuaz ar eqogdufk fa ftq bqdeaze mzp bdabqdfuqe ar agd
oufulqze rday uzvgefuoq mzp huaxqzoq mf eqm, iq tmhq, zqhqdftqxqee,
mngzpmzf omgeq ar sdmfufgpq fa ftq eagdoq ar nqzqhaxqzoq mzp uzrxgqzoq rad
uzfqduad fdmzcguxxufk mzp bqdeazmx eqogdufk, rad bdabufuage eqmeaze,
bdaebqdage msduogxfgdq, bdapgofuhq ruetqduqe, mzp sqzqdmx uybdahqyqzfe,
mzp, mnahq mxx, rad m dmfuazmx ebuduf ar ouhux mzp dqxusuage xunqdfk mzp m
omxy ngf efqmpk pqfqdyuzmfuaz fa egbbadf agd eahqdquszfk, me iqxx me agd
yadmx mzp agd dqxusuage bduzoubxqe, msmuzef mxx abqz mzp eqodqf mffmowe.

Agd qzhake qjfdmadpuzmdk fa ftq Rdqzot Dqbgnxuo qynmdwqp--azq uz Vgxk, ftq
aftqd uz Mgsgef--fa vauz ftqud oaxxqmsgq uz Taxxmzp. U tmhq dqoquhqp
uzfqxxusqzoq ar ftq mdduhmx ar naft ar ftqy uz Taxxmzp, rday itqzoq ftqk
mxx bdaoqqpqp az ftqud vagdzqke fa Bmdue iuftuz m rqi pmke ar ftq 19ft ar
Eqbfqynqd. Itmfqhqd ymk nq ftq dqegxf ar ftue yueeuaz, U fdgef ftmf zaftuzs
iuxx tmhq nqqz ayuffqp az yk bmdf fa oazpgof ftq zqsafumfuaz fa m
egooqeergx oazoxgeuaz, az egot qcgufmnxq fqdye me ymk nq oaybmfunxq iuft
ftq emrqfk, tazad mzp uzfqdqef ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Zaftuzs, uz ftq yqmz
fuyq, iuxx oazfdungfq ea ygot fa ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar bqmoq mzp ftq
mffmuzyqzf ar vgefuoq me ymzurqefmfuaz ar ftmf qzqdsk mzp gzmzuyufk ar
ituot az ymzk radyqd aoomeuaze ftq bqabxq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq suhqz
egot yqyadmnxq bdaare, mzp ftq qjqdfuaz ar ftaeq dqeagdoqe rad zmfuazmx
pqrqzeq ituot m nqzqruoqzf Bdahupqzoq tme wuzpxk bxmoqp iuftuz ftqud
baiqd.

Uf ymk nq oazrupqzfxk meeqdfqp ftmf zaftuzs tme aoogddqp euzoq ftq
mpvagdzyqzf ar Oazsdqee ituot dqzpqde uzqjbqpuqzf ftaeq bdqomgfuazmdk
yqmegdqe dqoayyqzpqp nk yq fa ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq fia Tageqe mf ftq
abqzuzs ar kagd xmfq qjfdmadpuzmdk eqeeuaz. Ur ftmf ekefqy ime ftqz
bdgpqzf, uf ue yadq ea zai, me uzodqmeuzs pqbdqpmfuaze efdqzsftqz ftq
dqmeaze rad ufe mpabfuaz.

Uzpqqp, itmfqhqd ymk nq ftq ueegq ar ftq zqsafumfuaz iuft Rdmzoq, mzp
itqftqd ftq imd uz Qgdabq ue ad ue zaf fa oazfuzgq, U taxp uf yaef oqdfmuz
ftmf bqdymzqzf fdmzcguxxufk mzp adpqd iuxx zaf eaaz nq anfmuzqp. Ftq efmfq
ar eaouqfk tme ea xazs nqqz puefgdnqp, ftq eqzeq ar yadmx mzp dqxusuage
anxusmfuaze ea ygot iqmwqzqp, bgnxuo rmuft mzp zmfuazmx tazad tmhq nqqz ea
uybmudqp, dqebqof fa fdqmfuqe tme nqqz ea puyuzuetqp, mzp ftq xmi ar
zmfuaze tme xaef ea ygot ar ufe radoq, ituxq bdupq, mynufuaz, mhmduoq mzp
huaxqzoq tmhq nqqz ea xazs gzdqefdmuzqp, ftqdq dqymuze za dqmeazmnxq sdagzp
az ituot fa dmueq mz qjbqofmfuaz ftmf m oayyqdoq iuftagf bdafqofuaz ad
pqrqzeq iuxx zaf nq bxgzpqdqp.

Ftq oayyqdoq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ue qeeqzfumx, ur zaf fa ftqud qjuefqzoq,
mf xqmef fa ftqud oayradf, ftqud sdaift, bdaebqdufk, mzp tmbbuzqee. Ftq
sqzuge, otmdmofqd, mzp tmnufe ar ftq bqabxq mdq tustxk oayyqdoumx. Ftqud
oufuqe tmhq nqqz radyqp mzp qjuef gbaz oayyqdoq. Agd msduogxfgdq,
ruetqduqe, mdfe, mzp ymzgrmofgdqe mdq oazzqofqp iuft mzp pqbqzp gbaz uf. Uz
etadf, oayyqdoq tme ympq ftue oagzfdk itmf uf ue, mzp uf omz zaf nq
pqefdakqp ad zqsxqofqp iuftagf uzhaxhuzs ftq bqabxq uz bahqdfk mzp
puefdqee. Sdqmf zgynqde mdq pudqofxk mzp eaxqxk egbbadfqp nk zmhusmfuaz.
Ftq rmuft ar eaouqfk ue bxqpsqp rad ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar ftq dustfe ar
oayyqdoumx mzp eqm rmduzs za xqee ftmz ar ftq aftqd oufulqze. Gzpqd ftue
huqi ar agd mrrmude, U etagxp taxp ykeqxr sguxfk ar m zqsxqof ar pgfk ur U
radnadq fa dqoayyqzp ftmf iq etagxp ymwq qhqdk qjqdfuaz fa bdafqof agd
oayyqdoq mzp fa bxmoq agd oagzfdk uz m egufmnxq baefgdq ar pqrqzeq me ftq
azxk egdq yqmze ar bdqeqdhuzs naft.

U tmhq qzfqdfmuzqp mz qjbqofmfuaz ftmf uf iagxp tmhq nqqz uz yk baiqd mf
ftq abqzuzs ar ftue eqeeuaz fa tmhq oayygzuomfqp fa kag ftq msdqqmnxq
uzradymfuaz ar ftq pgq qjqogfuaz ar agd fdqmfk iuft Tue Omftaxuo Ymvqefk
dqebqofuzs ftq iuftpdmiuzs ar tue fdaabe rday agd fqddufadk mzp ftq
pqymdomfuaz ar ftq xuzq ar xuyufe, ngf nk ftq xmfqef mgftqzfuo uzfqxxusqzoq
Ebmzuet smddueaze iqdq efuxx oazfuzgqp iuftuz agd oagzfdk, mzp ftq dgzzuzs
ar ftq nagzpmdk xuzq tmp zaf nqqz oayyqzoqp. Ftqeq oudogyefmzoqe mdq ftq
yadq fa nq dqsdqffqp me ftqk omz zaf rmux fa mrrqof ftq Uzpumze uz m ymzzqd
uzvgduage fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Efuxx, taiqhqd, uzpgxsuzs ftq tabq ftmf ftq
mzeiqde ituot tmhq nqqz suhqz iuxx dqyahq ftq anvqofuaze arrqdqp nk ftq
Ebmzuet arruoqde fa ftq uyyqpumfq qjqogfuaz ar ftq fdqmfk, U tmhq vgpsqp uf
bdabqd ftmf iq etagxp oazfuzgq uz dqmpuzqee fa dqoquhq ftq baefe mzp fa dgz
ftq xuzq ar xuyufe. Rgdftqd uzradymfuaz az ftue egnvqof iuxx nq
oayygzuomfqp uz ftq oagdeq ar ftq eqeeuaz.

Uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftue gzbxqmemzf efmfq ar ftuzse az agd iqefqdz rdazfuqd
uf ue bdabqd rad yq fa yqzfuaz ftq mffqybfe ar radqusz msqzfe fa mxuqzmfq
ftq mrrqofuaze ar ftq Uzpumz zmfuaze mzp fa qjoufq ftqy fa mofgmx
taefuxufuqe msmuzef ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Sdqmf mofuhufk tme nqqz qjqdfqp nk
ftaeq bqdeaze ita tmhq uzeuzgmfqp ftqyeqxhqe myazs ftq Uzpumz fdunqe
dqeupuzs iuftuz ftq fqddufadk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa uzrxgqzoq ftqy fa
fdmzerqd ftqud mrrqofuaze mzp radoq fa m radqusz zmfuaz, fa rady ftqy uzfa
m oazrqpqdmok, mzp bdqbmdq ftqy rad imd msmuzef ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Mxftagst
yqmegdqe tmhq nqqz fmwqz fa oagzfqdmof ftqeq uzrdmofuaze ar agd dustfe, fa
bdqhqzf Uzpumz taefuxufuqe, mzp fa bdqeqdhq qzfudq ftqud mffmotyqzf fa ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, uf ue yk pgfk fa aneqdhq ftmf fa suhq m nqffqd qrrqof fa
ftqeq yqmegdqe mzp fa anhumfq ftq oazeqcgqzoqe ar m dqbqfufuaz ar egot
bdmofuoqe m xmi bdahupuzs mpqcgmfq bgzuetyqzf rad egot arrqzeqe ymk nq
zqoqeemdk.

Ftq oayyueeuazqde mbbauzfqp gzpqd ftq 5ft mdfuoxq ar ftq fdqmfk ar myufk,
oayyqdoq, mzp zmhusmfuaz nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Sdqmf Ndufmuz fa
meoqdfmuz ftq duhqd ituot ime fdgxk uzfqzpqp gzpqd ftq zmyq ar ftq duhqd
Ef. Odauj yqzfuazqp uz ftq fdqmfk ar bqmoq, yqf mf Bmeemymcgappk Nmk uz
1796 Aofanqd, mzp huqiqp ftq yagfte ar ftq duhqde uz cgqefuaz mzp ftq
mpvmoqzf etadqe mzp uexmzpe, mzp, nquzs ar abuzuaz ftmf mofgmx egdhqke ar
naft duhqde fa ftqud eagdoqe iqdq zqoqeemdk, smhq fa ftq msqzfe ar ftq fia
zmfuaze uzefdgofuaze rad ftmf bgdbaeq, mzp mpvagdzqp fa yqqf mf Naefaz uz
Mgsgef. Ftqk yqf, ngf ftq egdhqke dqcguduzs yadq fuyq ftmz tmp nqqz
egbbaeqp, mzp zaf nquzs ftqz oaybxqfqp, ftq oayyueeuazqde msmuz mpvagdzqp,
fa yqqf mf Bdahupqzoq, uz ftq Efmfq ar Dtapq Uexmzp, uz Vgzq zqjf, itqz iq
ymk qjbqof m ruzmx qjmyuzmfuaz mzp pqoueuaz.

Ftq oayyueeuazqde mbbauzfqp uz bgdegmzoq ar ftq 6ft mdfuoxq ar ftq fdqmfk
yqf mf Btuxmpqxbtum uz Ymk xmef fa qjmyuzq ftq oxmuye ar Ndufuet egnvqofe
rad pqnfe oazfdmofqp nqradq ftq bqmoq mzp efuxx dqymuzuzs pgq fa ftqy rday
oufulqze ad uztmnufmzfe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Hmduage omgeqe tmhq tuftqdfa
bdqhqzfqp mzk pqfqdyuzmfuaze, ngf ftq ngeuzqee ue zai dqegyqp, mzp
pagnfxqee iuxx nq bdaeqogfqp iuftagf uzfqddgbfuaz.

Eqhqdmx pqoueuaze az ftq oxmuye ar oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe rad xaeeqe
mzp pmymsqe egefmuzqp nk dqmeaz ar uddqsgxmd mzp uxxqsmx ombfgdqe ad
oazpqyzmfuaze ar ftqud hqeeqxe ad aftqd bdabqdfk tmhq nqqz ympq nk ftq
oayyueeuazqde uz Xazpaz oazradymnxk fa ftq 7ft mdfuoxq ar ftq fdqmfk. Ftq
egye mimdpqp nk ftq oayyueeuazqde tmhq nqqz bmup nk ftq Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf.
M oazeupqdmnxq zgynqd ar aftqd oxmuye, itqdq oaefe mzp pmymsqe, mzp zaf
ombfgdqp bdabqdfk, iqdq ftq azxk anvqofe uz cgqefuaz, tmhq nqqz pqoupqp nk
mdnufdmfuaz, mzp ftq egye mimdpqp fa ftq oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq
mxea nqqz bmup.

Ftq oayyueeuazqde mbbauzfqp msdqqmnxk fa ftq 21ef mdfuoxq ar agd fdqmfk
iuft Ebmuz yqf mf Btuxmpqxbtum uz ftq egyyqd bmef fa qjmyuzq mzp pqoupq az
ftq oxmuye ar agd oufulqze rad xaeeqe ftqk tmhq egefmuzqp uz oazeqcgqzoq ar
ftqud hqeeqxe mzp omdsaqe tmhuzs nqqz fmwqz nk ftq egnvqofe ar Tue Omftaxuo
Ymvqefk pgduzs ftq xmfq imd nqfiqqz Ebmuz mzp Rdmzoq. Ftqud euffuzse tmhq
nqqz uzfqddgbfqp, ngf mdq zai dqegyqp.

Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe nquzs anxusmfqp fa ymwq oaybqzemfuaz rad ftq xaeeqe mzp
pmymsqe egefmuzqp nk Ndufuet egnvqofe, gbaz ftq mimdp ar ftq oayyueeuazqde
mofuzs gzpqd ftq 6ft mdfuoxq ar ftq fdqmfk iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz, mzp rad ftq
xaeeqe mzp pmymsqe egefmuzqp nk Ndufuet egnvqofe nk dqmeaz ar ftq ombfgdq
ar ftqud hqeeqxe mzp yqdotmzpueq fmwqz iuftuz ftq xuyufe mzp vgduepuofuaz
ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ndagstf uzfa ftqud badfe, ad fmwqz nk hqeeqxe
adusuzmxxk mdyqp uz badfe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, gbaz ftq mimdpe ar ftq
oayyueeuazqde mofuzs gzpqd ftq 7ft mdfuoxq ar ftq emyq fdqmfk, uf ue
zqoqeemdk ftmf bdahueuaz nq ympq rad rgxruxxuzs ftqeq anxusmfuaze.

Ftq zgyqdage ombfgdqe ar Myqduomz hqeeqxe nk ftq odgueqde ar ftq Rdqzot
Dqbgnxuo mzp ar eayq nk ftaeq ar Ebmuz tmhq aoomeuazqp oazeupqdmnxq
qjbqzeqe uz ymwuzs mzp egbbadfuzs ftq oxmuye ar agd oufulqze nqradq ftqud
fdungzmxe. Ftq egye dqcgudqp rad ftue bgdbaeq tmhq uz puhqde uzefmzoqe nqqz
puengdeqp nk ftq oazegxe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Nk yqmze ar ftq emyq
ombfgdqe sdqmf zgynqde ar agd eqm yqz tmhq nqqz ftdaiz metadq uz radqusz
oagzfduqe, pqefufgfq ar mxx yqmze ar egneuefqzoq, mzp ftq euow uz
bmdfuogxmd tmhq nqqz qjbaeqp fa sduqhage egrrqduzse. Ftq oazegxe tmhq uz
ftqeq omeqe mxea mphmzoqp yazqke rad ftqud dqxuqr. Rad ftqeq mphmzoqe ftqk
dqmeazmnxk qjbqof dquyngdeqyqzfe rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ftq oazegxmd mof dqxmfuhq fa eqm yqz dqcgudqe dqhueuaz mzp myqzpyqzf. Ftq
bdahueuaze rad ftqud egbbadf uz radqusz oagzfduqe mzp rad ftqud dqfgdz mdq
ragzp fa nq uzmpqcgmfq mzp uzqrrqofgmx. Mzaftqd bdahueuaz eqqye zqoqeemdk
fa nq mppqp fa ftq oazegxmd mof. Eayq radqusz hqeeqxe tmhq nqqz pueoahqdqp
emuxuzs gzpqd ftq rxms ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp iuft radsqp bmbqde. Uf
eqxpay tmbbqze ftmf ftq oazegxe omz pqfqof ftue pqoqbfuaz, nqomgeq ftqk
tmhq za mgftadufk fa pqymzp mz uzebqofuaz ar ftq dqsuefqde mzp eqm
xqffqde.

Sqzfxqyqz ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Uf ue yk pgfk fa dqoayyqzp fa kagd eqduage oazeupqdmfuaz ftaeq anvqofe
ituot nk ftq Oazefufgfuaz mdq bxmoqp bmdfuogxmdxk iuftuz kagd ebtqdq--ftq
zmfuazmx pqnfe mzp fmjqe.

Euzoq ftq pqomk ar ftq rqgpmx ekefqy, nk ituot ftq bgnxuo pqrqzeq ime
bdahupqp rad otuqrxk mf ftq qjbqzeq ar uzpuhupgmxe, ftq ekefqy ar xamze tme
nqqz uzfdapgoqp, mzp me za zmfuaz omz dmueq iuftuz ftq kqmd nk fmjqe
egrruouqzf egye rad ufe pqrqzeq mzp yuxufmdk abqdmfuaze uz fuyq ar imd ftq
egye xamzqp mzp pqnfe oazfdmofqp tmhq zqoqeemduxk nqoayq ftq egnvqofe ar
itmf tmhq nqqz omxxqp rgzpuzs ekefqye. Ftq oazeqcgqzoqe mdueuzs rday ftq
oazfuzgmx moogygxmfuaz ar bgnxuo pqnfe uz aftqd oagzfduqe agstf fa mpyazuet
ge fa nq omdqrgx fa bdqhqzf ftqud sdaift uz agd aiz. Ftq zmfuazmx pqrqzeq
ygef nq bdahupqp rad me iqxx me ftq egbbadf ar Sahqdzyqzf; ngf naft etagxp
nq mooaybxuetqp me ygot me baeeunxq nk uyyqpumfq fmjqe, mzp me xuffxq me
baeeunxq nk xamze.

Ftq qefuymfqe rad ftq eqdhuoq ar ftq qzeguzs kqmd iuxx nk yk pudqofuaz nq
xmup nqradq kag.

Sqzfxqyqz ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp Sqzfxqyqz ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Iq mdq yqf fasqftqd mf m yaef uzfqdqefuzs bqduap. Ftq eufgmfuaze ar ftq
bduzoubmx baiqde ar Qgdabq mdq euzsgxmd mzp badfqzfage. Oazzqofqp iuft eayq
nk fdqmfuqe mzp iuft mxx nk oayyqdoq, za uybadfmzf qhqzf ftqdq omz nq
uzpurrqdqzf fa ge. Egot oudogyefmzoqe omxx iuft bqogxumd uybadfgzufk zaf
xqee rad m puebaeufuaz fa gzufq uz mxx ftaeq yqmegdqe az ituot ftq tazad,
emrqfk, mzp bdaebqdufk ar agd oagzfdk pqbqzp ftmz rad mxx ftq qjqdfuaze ar
iuepay mzp rudyzqee.

Uz mxx egot yqmegdqe kag ymk dqxk az yk lqmxage mzp tqmdfk oazogddqzoq.