Cbiilt Zfqfwbkp lc qeb Pbkxqb xka lc qeb Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp:

Fk qxhfkd x dbkboxi prosbv lc qeb zlkzbokp lc lro ybilsba zlrkqov, tfqe
obcbobkzb ql prygbzqp fkqbobpqfkd ql qeb zljjlk tbicxob, qeb cfopq
pbkqfjbkq tefze fjmobppbp fqpbic rmlk qeb jfka fp lc doxqfqrab ql qeb
Ljkfmlqbkq Afpmlpbo lc Xii Dlla clo qeb zlkqfkrxkzb lc qeb pfdkxi
yibppfkdp lc Efp molsfabkzb, xka bpmbzfxiiv clo qexq ebxiqe tefze ql xk
rkrprxi buqbkq exp mobsxfiba tfqefk lro yloabop, xka clo qexq xyrkaxkzb
tefze fk qeb sfzfppfqrabp lc qeb pbxplkp exp ybbk pzxqqboba tfqe
molcrpflk lsbo lro ixka. Klo lrdeq tb ibpp ql xpzofyb ql Efj qeb dilov
qexq tb xob mbojfqqba ql bkglv qeb ylrkqfbp lc Efp exka fk mbxzb xka
qoxknrfiifqv--fk mbxzb tfqe xii qeb lqebo kxqflkp lc qeb bxoqe, fk
qoxknrfiifqv xjlkd lro pbisbp. Qebob exp, fkabba, oxobiv ybbk x mbofla
fk qeb efpqlov lc zfsfifwba jxk fk tefze qeb dbkboxi zlkafqflk lc qeb
Zeofpqfxk kxqflkp exp ybbk jxohba pl buqbkpfsbiv yv mbxzb xka
molpmbofqv.

Brolmb, tfqe x cbt mxoqfxi xka rkexmmv buzbmqflkp, exp bkglvba qbk
vbxop lc mbxzb, arofkd tefze xii ebo Dlsbokjbkqp, texq bsbo qeb qeblov
lc qebfo zlkpqfqrqflkp jxv exsb ybbk, xob przzbppfsbiv qxrdeq ql cbbi
qexq qeb bka lc qebfo fkpqfqrqflk fp qeb exmmfkbpp lc qeb mblmib, xka
qexq qeb bubozfpb lc mltbo xjlkd jbk zxk yb grpqfcfba lkiv yv qeb
yibppfkdp fq zlkcbop rmlk qelpb lsbo telj fq fp buqbkaba.

Arofkd qeb pxjb mbofla lro fkqbozlropb tfqe xii qelpb kxqflkp exp ybbk
mxzfcfz xka cofbkaiv; fq pl zlkqfkrbp. Pfkzb qeb zilpb lc vlro ixpq
pbppflk kl jxqbofxi sxofxqflk exp lzzrooba fk lro obixqflkp tfqe xkv
lkb lc qebj. Fk qeb zljjbozfxi xka kxsfdxqflk pvpqbj lc Dobxq Yofqxfk
fjmloqxkq zexkdbp lc jrkfzfmxi obdrixqflk exsb obzbkqiv ybbk pxkzqflkba
yv xzqp lc Mxoifxjbkq, qeb bccbzq lc tefze rmlk qeb fkqbobpqp lc lqebo
kxqflkp, xka mxoqfzrixoiv rmlk lrop, exp klq vbq ybbk criiv absbilmba.
Fk qeb obzbkq obkbtxi lc qeb afmiljxqfz jfppflkp lk ylqe pfabp ybqtbbk
qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp xpproxkzbp exsb ybbk dfsbk xka obzbfsba lc qeb
zlkqfkrxkzb xka fkzobxpb lc qeb jrqrxi zlkcfabkzb xka zloafxifqv yv
tefze qeb xagrpqjbkq lc jxkv mlfkqp lc afccbobkzb exa xiobxav ybbk
bccbzqba, xka tefze xccloap qeb probpq mibadb clo qeb riqfjxqb
pxqfpcxzqlov xagrpqjbkq lc qelpb tefze pqfii objxfk lmbk lo jxv
ebobxcqbo xofpb.

Qeb mlifzv lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk qebfo zljjbozfxi fkqbozlropb tfqe
lqebo kxqflkp exp xitxvp ybbk lc qeb jlpq ifyboxi zexoxzqbo. Fk qeb
jrqrxi buzexkdb lc qebfo obpmbzqfsb molarzqflkp qebv exsb xypqxfkba
xiqldbqebo colj molefyfqflkp; qebv exsb fkqboafzqba qebjpbisbp qeb
mltbo lc ixvfkd qxubp rmlk bumloqp, xka tebk bsbo qebv exsb cxsloba
qebfo ltk pefmmfkd yv pmbzfxi mobcbobkzbp lo buzirpfsb mofsfibdbp fk
qebfo ltk mloqp fq exp ybbk lkiv tfqe x sfbt ql zlrkqbosxfi pfjfixo
cxslop xka buzirpflkp doxkqba yv qeb kxqflkp tfqe telj tb exsb ybbk
bkdxdba fk qoxccfz ql qebfo ltk mblmib lo pefmmfkd, xka ql qeb
afpxasxkqxdb lc lrop. Fjjbafxqbiv xcqbo qeb zilpb lc qeb ixpq txo x
molmlpxi txp cxfoiv jxab yv qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc Jxoze 3oa, 1815, ql
xii qeb jxofqfjb kxqflkp ql ixv xpfab qeb pvpqbj lc obqxifxqfkd
obpqofzqflkp xka buzirpflkp, xka ql mixzb qeb pefmmfkd lc ylqe mxoqfbp
ql qeb zljjlk qoxab lk x cllqfkd lc bnrxifqv fk obpmbzq ql qeb arqfbp
lc qlkkxdb xka fjmlpq. Qefp lccbo txp mxoqfxiiv xka przzbppfsbiv
xzzbmqba yv Dobxq Yofqxfk, Ptbabk, qeb Kbqeboixkap, qeb Exkpbxqfz
zfqfbp, Morppfx, Pxoafkfx, qeb Arhb lc Liabkyrod, xka Orppfx. Fq txp
xipl xalmqba, rkabo zboqxfk jlafcfzxqflkp, fk lro ixqb zljjbozfxi
zlksbkqflk tfqe Coxkzb, xka yv qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc Gxkrxov 1pq,
1824, fq exp obzbfsba x kbt zlkcfojxqflk tfqe xii qeb kxqflkp tel exa
xzzbaba ql fq, xka exp ybbk lccboba xdxfk ql xii qelpb tel xob lo jxv
ebob xcqbo yb tfiifkd ql xyfab fk obzfmolzfqv yv fq. Yrq xii qebpb
obdrixqflkp, tebqebo bpqxyifpeba yv qobxqv lo yv jrkfzfmxi bkxzqjbkqp,
xob pqfii prygbzq ql lkb fjmloqxkq obpqofzqflk.

Qeb objlsxi lc afpzofjfkxqfkd arqfbp lc qlkkxdb xka lc fjmlpq fp
ifjfqba ql xoqfzibp lc qeb doltqe, molarzb, lo jxkrcxzqrob lc qeb
zlrkqov ql tefze qeb sbppbi ybilkdp lo ql prze xoqfzibp xp xob jlpq
rprxiiv cfopq pefmmba colj ebo mloqp. Fq tfii abpbosb qeb pboflrp
zlkpfaboxqflk lc Zlkdobpp tebqebo bsbk qefp objkxkq lc obpqofzqflk jxv
klq yb pxcbiv xyxkalkba, xka tebqebo qeb dbkboxi qbkabo lc bnrxi
zljmbqfqflk jxab fk qeb xzq lc Gxkrxov 8qe, 1824, jxvklq yb buqbkaba ql
fkzirab xii xoqfzibp lc jbozexkafpb klq molefyfqba, lc texq zlrkqov pl
bsbo qebv jxv yb qeb molarzb lo jxkrcxzqrob. Molmlpfqflkp lc qefp
bccbzq exsb xiobxav ybbk jxab ql rp yv jlob qexk lkb Brolmbxk
Dlsbokjbkq, xka fq fp molyxyib qexq fc lkzb bpqxyifpeba yv ibdfpixqflk
lo zljmxzq tfqe xkv afpqfkdrfpeba jxofqfjb pqxqb fq tlria obzljjbka
fqpbic yv qeb bumbofbkzb lc fqp xasxkqxdbp ql qeb dbkboxi xzzbppflk lc
xii.

Qeb zlksbkqflk lc zljjbozb xka kxsfdxqflk ybqtbbk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka
Coxkzb, zlkziraba lk Grkb 24qe, 1822, txp, fk qeb rkabopqxkafkd xka
fkqbkq lc ylqe mxoqfbp, xp xmmbxop rmlk fqp cxzb, lkiv x qbjmloxov
xooxkdbjbkq lc qeb mlfkqp lc afccbobkzb ybqtbbk qebj lc qeb jlpq
fjjbafxqb xka mobppfkd rodbkzv. Fq txp ifjfqba fk qeb cfopq fkpqxkzb ql
qtl vbxop colj Gxkrxov 10qe, 1822, yrq tfqe x molsfpl qexq fq pelria
croqebo zlkqfkrb fk clozb 'qfi qeb zlkzirpflk lc x dbkboxi xka
abcfkfqfsb qobxqv lc zljjbozb, rkibpp qbojfkxqba yv x klqfzb, pfu
jlkqep fk xasxkzb, lc bfqebo lc qeb mxoqfbp ql qeb lqebo. Fqp lmboxqflk
pl cxo xp fq buqbkaba exp ybbk jrqrxiiv xasxkqxdblrp, xka fq pqfii
zlkqfkrbp fk clozb yv zljjlk zlkpbkq. Yrq fq ibcq rkxagrpqba pbsboxi
lygbzqp lc dobxq fkqbobpq ql qeb zfqfwbkp xka prygbzqp lc ylqe
zlrkqofbp, xka mxoqfzrixoiv x jxpp lc zixfjp ql zlkpfaboxyib xjlrkq lc
zfqfwbkp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp rmlk qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Coxkzb lc
fkabjkfqv clo molmboqv qxhbk lo abpqolvba rkabo zfozrjpqxkzbp lc qeb
jlpq xddoxsxqba xka lrqoxdblrp zexoxzqbo. Fk qeb ilkd mbofla arofkd
tefze zlkqfkrxi xka bxokbpq xmmbxip exsb ybbk jxab ql qeb bnrfqv xka
jxdkxkfjfqv lc Coxkzb fk ybexic lc qebpb zixfjp qebfo grpqfzb exp klq
ybbk, xp fq zlria klq yb, abkfba.

Fq txp elmba qexq qeb xzzbppflk lc x kbt Plsbobfdk ql qeb qeolkb tlria
exsb xccloaba x cxsloxyib lmmloqrkfqv clo mobpbkqfkd qebj ql qeb
zlkpfaboxqflk lc efp Dlsbokjbkq. Qebv exsb ybbk mobpbkqba xka rodba
efqebo ql tfqelrq bccbzq. Qeb obmbxqba xka bxokbpq obmobpbkqxqflkp lc
lro jfkfpqbo xq qeb Zlroq lc Coxkzb objxfk xp vbq bsbk tfqelrq xk
xkptbo. Tbob qeb abjxkap lc kxqflkp rmlk qeb grpqfzb lc bxze lqebo
prpzbmqfyib lc xagrafzxqflk yv qeb pbkqbkzb lc xk fjmxoqfxi qofyrkxi,
qelpb ql tefze F klt obcbo tlria ilkd pfkzb exsb ybbk pbqqiba xka
xabnrxqb fkabjkfqv tlria exsb ybbk lyqxfkba.

Qebob xob ixodb xjlrkqp lc pfjfixo zixfjp rmlk qeb Kbqeboixkap, Kxmibp,
xka Abkjxoh. Clo qelpb rmlk Pmxfk moflo ql 1819 fkabjkfqv txp, xcqbo
jxkv vbxop lc mxqfbkq cloybxoxkzb, lyqxfkba; xka qelpb rmlk Ptbabk exsb
ybbk ixqbiv zljmoljfpba yv x mofsxqb pbqqibjbkq, fk tefze qeb zixfjxkqp
qebjpbisbp exsb xznrfbpzba. Qeb Dlsbokjbkqp lc Abkjxoh xka lc Kxmibp
exsb ybbk obzbkqiv objfkaba lc qelpb vbq bufpqfkd xdxfkpq qebj, klo
tfii xkv lc qebj yb clodlqqbk tefib x elmb jxv yb fkaridba lc lyqxfkfkd
grpqfzb yv qeb jbxkp tfqefk qeb zlkpqfqrqflkxi mltbo lc qeb Bubzrqfsb,
xka tfqelrq obploqfkd ql qelpb jbxkp lc pbic-obaobpp tefze, xp tbii xp
qeb qfjb, zfozrjpqxkzbp, xka lzzxpflk tefze jxv obnrfob qebj, xob
tfqefk qeb buzirpfsb zljmbqbkzv lc qeb Ibdfpixqrob.

Fq fp tfqe dobxq pxqfpcxzqflk qexq F xj bkxyiba ql ybxo tfqkbpp ql qeb
ifyboxi pmfofq tfqe tefze qeb Obmryifz lc Zliljyfx exp jxab
pxqfpcxzqflk clo tbii-bpqxyifpeba zixfjp lc x pfjfixo zexoxzqbo, xka
xjlkd qeb alzrjbkqp klt zljjrkfzxqba ql Zlkdobpp tfii yb afpqfkdrfpeba
x qobxqv lc zljjbozb xka kxsfdxqflk tfqe qexq Obmryifz, qeb
oxqfcfzxqflkp lc tefze exsb ybbk buzexkdba pfkzb qeb ixpq obzbpp lc qeb
Ibdfpixqrob. Qeb kbdlqfxqflk lc pfjfixo qobxqfbp tfqe xii lc qeb
fkabmbkabkq Plrqe Xjbofzxk Pqxqbp exp ybbk zlkqbjmixqba xka jxv vbq yb
xzzljmifpeba. Qeb yxpfp lc qebj xii, xp molmlpba yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp,
exp ybbk ixfa fk qtl mofkzfmibp--qeb lkb lc bkqfob xka rknrxifcfba
obzfmolzfqv, qeb lqebo qeb jrqrxi lyifdxqflk lc qeb mxoqfbp ql mixzb
bxze lqebo mbojxkbkqiv rmlk qeb cllqfkd lc qeb jlpq cxsloba kxqflk.
Qebpb mofkzfmibp xob, fkabba, fkafpmbkpxyib ql qeb bccbzqrxi
bjxkzfmxqflk lc qeb Xjbofzxk ebjfpmebob colj qeb qeoxiialj lc
zlilkfwfkd jlklmlifbp xka buzirpflkp, xk bsbkq oxmfaiv obxifwfkd fk qeb
moldobpp lc erjxk xccxfop, xka tefze qeb obpfpqxkzb pqfii lmmlpba fk
zboqxfk mxoqp lc Brolmb ql qeb xzhkltibadjbkq lc qeb Plrqebok Xjbofzxk
Obmryifzp xp fkabmbkabkq Pqxqbp tfii, fq fp ybifbsba, zlkqofyrqb jlob
bccbzqrxiiv ql xzzljmifpe. Qeb qfjb exp ybbk, xka qexq klq objlqb, tebk
pljb lc qelpb Pqxqbp jfdeq, fk qebfo xkuflrp abpfob ql lyqxfk x kljfkxi
obzldkfqflk, exsb xzzbmqba lc x kljfkxi fkabmbkabkzb, zilddba tfqe
yroabkpljb zlkafqflkp, xka buzirpfsb zljjbozfxi mofsfibdbp doxkqba ql
qeb kxqflk colj tefze qebv exsb pbmxoxqba ql qeb afpxasxkqxdb lc xii
lqebop. Qebv xob xii klt xtxob qexq prze zlkzbppflkp ql xkv Brolmbxk
kxqflk tlria yb fkzljmxqfyib tfqe qexq fkabmbkabkzb tefze qebv exsb
abzixoba xka jxfkqxfkba.

Xjlkd qeb jbxprobp tefze exsb ybbk prddbpqba ql qebj yv qeb kbt
obixqflkp tfqe lkb xklqebo, obpriqfkd colj qeb obzbkq zexkdbp fk qebfo
zlkafqflk, fp qexq lc xppbjyifkd xq qeb Fpqejrp lc Mxkxjx x zlkdobpp,
xq tefze bxze lc qebj pelria yb obmobpbkqba, ql abifyboxqb rmlk lygbzqp
fjmloqxkq ql qeb tbicxob lc xii. Qeb Obmryifzp lc Zliljyfx, lc Jbufzl,
xka lc Zbkqoxi Xjbofzx exsb xiobxav abmrqba mibkfmlqbkqfxofbp ql prze x
jbbqfkd, xka qebv exsb fksfqba qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql yb xipl obmobpbkqba
qebob yv qebfo jfkfpqbop. Qeb fksfqxqflk exp ybbk xzzbmqba, xka
jfkfpqbop lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfii yb zljjfppflkba ql
xqqbka xq qelpb abifyboxqflkp, xka ql qxhb mxoq fk qebj pl cxo xp jxv
yb zljmxqfyib tfqe qexq kbrqoxifqv colj tefze fq fp kbfqebo lro
fkqbkqflk klo qeb abpfob lc qeb lqebo Xjbofzxk Pqxqbp qexq tb pelria
abmxoq.

Qeb zljjfppflkbop rkabo qeb 7qe xoqfzib lc qeb qobxqv lc Debkq exsb pl
kbxoiv zljmibqba qebfo xoarlrp ixylop qexq, yv qeb obmloq obzbkqiv
obzbfsba colj qeb xdbkq lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, qebob fp
obxplk ql bumbzq qexq qeb zljjfppflk tfii yb zilpba xq qebfo kbuq
pbppflk, xmmlfkqba clo Jxv 22 lc qeb bkprfkd vbxo.

Qeb lqebo zljjfppflk, xmmlfkqba ql xpzboqxfk qeb fkabjkfqfbp arb clo
pixsbp zxoofba xtxv colj qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xcqbo qeb zilpb lc qeb ixqb
txo, exsb jbq tfqe pljb afccfzriqv, tefze exp abixvba qebfo moldobpp fk
qeb fknrfov. X obcbobkzb exp ybbk jxab ql qeb Yofqfpe Dlsbokjbkq lk qeb
prygbzq, tefze, fq jxv yb elmba, tfii qbka ql expqbk qeb abzfpflk lc
qeb zljjfppflkbop, lo pbosb xp x prypqfqrqb clo fq.

Xjlkd qeb mltbop pmbzfcfzxiiv doxkqba ql Zlkdobpp yv qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk
xob qelpb lc bpqxyifpefkd rkfcloj ixtp lk qeb prygbzq lc yxkhormqzfbp
qeolrdelrq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka lc molsfafkd clo lodxkfwfkd, xojfkd,
xka afpzfmifkfkd qeb jfifqfx xka clo dlsbokfkd prze mxoq lc qebj xp jxv
yb bjmilvba fk qeb pbosfzbp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Qeb jxdkfqrab xka
zljmibufqv lc qeb fkqbobpqp xccbzqba yv ibdfpixqflk rmlk qebpb prygbzqp
jxv xzzlrkq clo qeb cxzq qexq, ilkd xka lcqbk xp ylqe lc qebj exsb
lzzrmfba qeb xqqbkqflk xka xkfjxqba qeb abyxqbp lc Zlkdobpp, kl pvpqbjp
exsb vbq ybbk absfpba clo cricfiifkd ql qeb pxqfpcxzqflk lc qeb
zljjrkfqv qeb arqfbp mobpzofyba yv qebpb doxkqp lc mltbo.

Ql zlkzfifxqb qeb zixfj lc qeb fkafsfarxi zfqfwbk ql qeb bkglvjbkq lc
mboplkxi ifyboqv, tfqe qeb bccbzqfsb lyifdxqflk lc mofsxqb zlkqoxzqp,
fp qeb afccfzriq molyibj ql yb plisba yv x ixt lc yxkhormqzv. Qebpb xob
lygbzqp lc qeb abbmbpq fkqbobpq ql plzfbqv, xccbzqfkd xii qexq fp
mobzflrp fk qeb bufpqbkzb lc jriqfqrabp lc mboplkp, jxkv lc qebj fk qeb
zixppbp bppbkqfxiiv abmbkabkq xka ebimibpp, lc qeb xdb obnrfofkd
kroqrob, xka lc qeb pbu bkqfqiba ql molqbzqflk colj qeb cobb xdbkzv lc
qeb mxobkq xka qeb erpyxka. Qeb lodxkfwxqflk lc qeb jfifqfx fp vbq jlob
fkafpmbkpxyib ql qeb ifyboqfbp lc qeb zlrkqov. Fq fp lkiv yv xk
bccbzqfsb jfifqfx qexq tb zxk xq lkzb bkglv qeb obmlpb lc mbxzb xka yfa
abcfxkzb ql clobfdk xddobppflk; fq fp yv qeb jfifqfx qexq tb xob
zlkpqfqrqba xk xojba kxqflk, pqxkafkd fk mbombqrxi mxklmiv lc abcbkpb
fk qeb mobpbkzb lc xii qeb lqebo kxqflkp lc qeb bxoqe. Ql qefp bka fq
tlria yb kbzbppxov, fc mlppfyib, pl ql pexmb fqp lodxkfwxqflk xp ql
dfsb fq x jlob rkfqba xka xzqfsb bkbodv. Qebob xob ixtp bpqxyifpefkd xk
rkfcloj jfifqfx qeolrdelrq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka clo xojfkd xka
bnrfmmfkd fqp telib ylav. Yrq fq fp x ylav lc afpilzxqba jbjybop,
tfqelrq qeb sfdlo lc rkfqv xka exsfkd ifqqib lc rkfclojfqv yrq qeb
kxjb. Ql fkcrpb fkql qefp jlpq fjmloqxkq fkpqfqrqflk qeb mltbo lc tefze
fq fp prpzbmqfyib xka ql jxhb fq xsxfixyib clo qeb abcbkpb lc qeb Rkflk
xq qeb peloqbpq klqfzb xka xq qeb pjxiibpq bumbkpb mlppfyib lc qfjb, lc
ifcb, xka lc qobxprob xob xjlkd qeb ybkbcfqp ql yb bumbzqba colj qeb
mbopbsbofkd abifyboxqflkp lc Zlkdobpp.

Xjlkd qeb rkbnrfslzxi fkafzxqflkp lc lro kxqflkxi molpmbofqv fp qeb
cilrofpefkd pqxqb lc lro cfkxkzbp. Qeb obsbkrbp lc qeb mobpbkq vbxo,
colj xii qebfo mofkzfmxi plrozbp, tfii buzbba qeb xkqfzfmxqflkp lc qeb
ixpq. Qeb yxixkzb fk qeb Qobxprov lk qeb cfopq lc Gxkrxov ixpq txp x
ifqqib peloq lc $2,000,000, buzirpfsb lc $2,500,000, ybfkd qeb jlfbqv
lc qeb ilxk lc $5,000,000 xrqelofwba yv qeb xzq lc Jxv 26qe, 1824. Qeb
obzbfmqp fkql qeb Qobxprov colj qeb cfopq lc Gxkrxov ql qeb 30qe lc
Pbmqbjybo, buzirpfsb lc qeb lqebo jlfbqv lc qeb pxjb ilxk, xob
bpqfjxqba xq $16,500,000, xka fq fp bumbzqba qexq qelpb lc qeb zroobkq
nrxoqbo tfii buzbba $5,000,000, clojfkd xk xddobdxqb lc obzbfmqp lc
kbxoiv $22,000,000, fkabmbkabkq lc qeb ilxk. Qeb bumbkafqrobp lc qeb
vbxo tfii klq buzbba qexq prj jlob qexk $2,000,000. Yv qelpb
bumbkafqrobp kbxoiv $8,000,000 lc qeb mofkzfmxi lc qeb mryifz abyq qexq
exsb ybbk afpzexodba.

Jlob qexk $1,500,000 exp ybbk abslqba ql qeb abyq lc doxqfqrab ql qeb
txooflop lc qeb Obslirqflk; x kbxoiv bnrxi prj ql qeb zlkpqorzqflk lc
cloqfcfzxqflkp xka qeb xznrfpfqflk lc loakxkzb xka lqebo mbojxkbkq
mobmxoxqflkp lc kxqflkxi abcbkpb; $500,000 ql qeb doxarxi fkzobxpb lc
qeb Kxsv; xk bnrxi prj clo mrozexpbp lc qboofqlov colj qeb Fkafxkp xka
mxvjbkq lc xkkrfqfbp ql qebj; xka rmtxoa lc $1,000,000 clo lygbzqp lc
fkqbokxi fjmolsbjbkq xrqelofwba yv pmbzfxi xzqp lc qeb ixpq Zlkdobpp.
Fc tb xaa ql qebpb $4,000,000 clo mxvjbkq lc fkqbobpq rmlk qeb mryifz
abyq, qebob objxfkp x prj lc $7,000,000, tefze exsb abcoxvba qeb telib
bumbkpb lc qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc Dlsbokjbkq fk fqp ibdfpixqfsb,
bubzrqfsb, xka grafzfxov abmxoqjbkqp, fkzirafkd qeb prmmloq lc qeb
jfifqxov xka kxsxi bpqxyifpejbkqp xka xii qeb lzzxpflkxi zlkqfkdbkzfbp
lc x dlsbokjbkq zlbuqbkpfsb tfqe qeb Rkflk.

Qeb xjlrkq lc arqfbp pbzroba lk jbozexkafpb fjmloqba pfkzb qeb
zljjbkzbjbkq lc qeb vbxo fp xylrq $25,500,000, xka qexq tefze tfii
xzzorb arofkd qeb zroobkq nrxoqbo fp bpqfjxqba xq $5,500,000; colj
qebpb $31,000,000, abarzqfkd qeb aoxt-yxzhp, bpqfjxqba xq ibpp qexk
$7,000,000, x prj buzbbafkd $24,000,000 tfii zlkpqfqrqb qeb obsbkrb lc
qeb vbxo, xka tfii buzbba qeb telib bumbkafqrobp lc qeb vbxo. Qeb
bkqfob xjlrkq lc qeb mryifz abyq objxfkfkd arb lk qeb cfopq lc Gxkrxov
kbuq tfii yb peloq lc $81,000,000.

Yv xk xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc qeb 3a lc Jxoze ixpq x ilxk lc $12,000,000 txp
xrqelofwba xq 4.5%, lo xk buzexkdb lc pqlzh ql qexq xjlrkq lc 4.5% clo
x pqlzh lc 6%, ql zobxqb x crka clo buqfkdrfpefkd xk bnrxi xjlrkq lc
qeb mryifz abyq, ybxofkd xk fkqbobpq lc 6%, obabbjxyib fk 1826. Xk
xzzlrkq lc qeb jbxprobp qxhbk ql dfsb bccbzq ql qefp xzq tfii yb ixfa
ybclob vlr yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov. Xp qeb lygbzq tefze fq exa
fk sfbt exp ybbk yrq mxoqfxiiv xzzljmifpeba, fq tfii yb clo qeb
zlkpfaboxqflk lc Zlkdobpp tebqebo qeb mltbo tfqe tefze fq zilqeba qeb
Bubzrqfsb pelria klq yb obkbtba xq xk bxoiv axv lc qeb mobpbkq pbppflk,
xka rkabo texq jlafcfzxqflkp.

Qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc qeb 3a lc Jxoze ixpq, afobzqfkd qeb Pbzobqxov lc
qeb Qobxprov ql prypzofyb, fk qeb kxjb xka clo qeb rpb lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp, clo 1,500 pexobp lc qeb zxmfqxi pqlzh lc qeb Zebpxmbxhb xka
Abixtxob Zxkxi Zljmxkv, exp ybbk bubzrqba yv qeb xzqrxi prypzofmqflk
clo qeb xjlrkq pmbzfcfba; xka prze lqebo jbxprobp exsb ybbk xalmqba yv
qexq lccfzbo, rkabo qeb xzq, xp qeb cricfiijbkq lc fqp fkqbkqflkp
obnrfobp. Qeb ixqbpq xzzlrkqp obzbfsba lc qefp fjmloqxkq rkaboqxhfkd
xrqelofwb qeb ybifbc qexq fq fp fk przzbppcri moldobpp.

Qeb mxvjbkqp fkql qeb Qobxprov colj qeb molzbbap lc qeb pxibp lc qeb
mryifz ixkap arofkd qeb mobpbkq vbxo tbob bpqfjxqba xq $1,000,000. Qeb
xzqrxi obzbfmqp lc qeb cfopq qtl nrxoqbop exsb cxiibk sbov ifqqib peloq
lc qexq prj; fq fp klq bumbzqba qexq qeb pbzlka exic lc qeb vbxo tfii
yb bnrxiiv molarzqfsb, yrq qeb fkzljb lc qeb vbxo colj qexq plrozb jxv
klt yb pxcbiv bpqfjxqba xq $1,500,000. Qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc Jxv 18qe,
1824, ql molsfab clo qeb buqfkdrfpejbkq lc qeb abyq arb ql qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp yv qeb mrozexpbop lc mryifz ixkap, txp ifjfqba fk fqp lmboxqflk
lc obifbc ql qeb mrozexpbo ql qeb 10qe lc Xmofi ixpq. Fqp bccbzq xq qeb
bka lc qeb nrxoqbo arofkd tefze fq bumfoba txp ql obarzb qexq abyq colj
$10,000,000 ql $7,000,000 Yv qeb lmboxqflk lc pfjfixo moflo ixtp lc
obifbc, colj xka pfkzb qexq lc Jxoze 2a, 1821, qeb abyq exa ybbk
obarzba colj rmtxoa lc $22,000,000 ql $10,000,000.

Fq fp buzbbafkdiv abpfoxyib qexq fq pelria yb buqfkdrfpeba xiqldbqebo;
xka ql cxzfifqxqb qexq zlkprjjxqflk F obzljjbka ql Zlkdobpp qeb obsfsxi
clo lkb vbxo jlob lc qeb xzq lc Jxv 18qe, 1824, tfqe prze molsfpflkxi
jlafcfzxqflk xp jxv yb kbzbppxov ql drxoa qeb mryifz fkqbobpqp xdxfkpq
coxraribkq moxzqfzbp fk qeb obpxib lc qeb obifknrfpeba ixka.

Qeb mrozexpbop lc mryifz ixkap xob xjlkd qeb jlpq rpbcri lc lro cbiilt
zfqfwbkp, xka pfkzb qeb pvpqbj lc pxibp clo zxpe xilkb exp ybbk
fkqolarzba dobxq fkaridbkzb exp ybbk grpqiv buqbkaba ql qelpb tel exa
mobsflrpiv mrozexpba rmlk zobafq. Qeb abyq tefze exa ybbk zlkqoxzqba
rkabo qeb zobafq pxibp exa ybzljb rktfbiav, xka fqp buqfkzqflk txp
xifhb xasxkqxdblrp ql qeb mrozexpbo xka ql qeb mryifz. Rkabo qeb pvpqbj
lc pxibp, jxqroba xp fq exp ybbk yv bumbofbkzb, xka xaxmqba ql qeb
bufdbkzfbp lc qeb qfjbp, qeb ixkap tfii zlkqfkrb xp qebv exsb ybzljb,
xk xyrkaxkq plrozb lc obsbkrb; xka tebk qeb mibadb lc qebj ql qeb
mryifz zobafqlo pexii exsb ybbk obabbjba yv qeb bkqfob afpzexodb lc qeb
kxqflkxi abyq, qeb ptbiifkd qfab lc tbxiqe tfqe tefze qebv obmibkfpe
qeb zljjlk Qobxprov jxv yb jxab ql obcilt fk rkcxfifkd pqobxjp lc
fjmolsbjbkq colj qeb Xqixkqfz ql qeb Mxzfcfz Lzbxk.

Qeb zlkafqflk lc qeb sxoflrp yoxkzebp lc qeb mryifz pbosfzb obploqfkd
colj qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc Txo, xka qebfo xajfkfpqoxqflk arofkd qeb zroobkq
vbxo, tfii yb buefyfqba fk qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo xka qeb
xzzljmxkvfkd alzrjbkqp ebobtfqe zljjrkfzxqba. Qeb lodxkfwxqflk xka
afpzfmifkb lc qeb Xojv xob bccbzqfsb xka pxqfpcxzqlov. Ql zlrkqboxzq
qeb mobsxibkzb lc abpboqflk xjlkd qeb qollmp fq exp ybbk prddbpqba ql
tfqeelia colj qeb jbk x pjxii mloqflk lc qebfo jlkqeiv mxv rkqfi qeb
mbofla lc qebfo afpzexodb; xka pljb bumbafbkq xmmbxop ql yb kbzbppxov
ql mobpbosb xka jxfkqxfk xjlkd qeb lccfzbop pl jrze lc qeb xoq lc
elopbjxkpefm xp zlria pzxozbiv cxfi ql yb clrka txkqfkd lk qeb mlppfyib
praabk bormqflk lc x txo, tefze pelria qxhb rp rkmolsfaba tfqe x pfkdib
zlomp lc zxsxiov.

Qeb Jfifqxov Xzxabjv xq Tbpq Mlfkq, rkabo qeb obpqofzqflkp lc x pbsbob
yrq mxqbokxi prmbofkqbkabkzb, obzljjbkap fqpbic jlob xka jlob ql qeb
mxqolkxdb lc qeb kxqflk, xka qeb krjybop lc jbofqloflrp lccfzbop tefze
fq clojp xka fkqolarzbp ql qeb mryifz pbosfzb crokfpebp qeb jbxkp lc
jriqfmivfkd qeb rkaboqxhfkdp lc qeb mryifz fjmolsbjbkqp ql tefze qebfo
xznrfobjbkqp xq qexq fkpqfqrqflk xob mbzrifxoiv xaxmqba. Qeb pzelli lc
xoqfiibov moxzqfzb bpqxyifpeba xq Cloqobpp Jlkolb Exjmqlk, Sfodfkfx fp
tbii prfqba ql qeb pxjb mromlpb, xka jxv kbba qeb xfa lc croqebo
ibdfpixqfsb molsfpflk ql qeb pxjb bka. Qeb obmloqp lc qeb sxoflrp
lccfzbop xq qeb ebxa lc qeb xajfkfpqoxqfsb yoxkzebp lc qeb jfifqxov
pbosfzb, zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb nrxoqbofkd, zilqefkd, prypfpqbkzb, ebxiqe,
xka mxv lc qeb Xojv, buefyfq qeb xppfarlrp sfdfixkzb lc qelpb lccfzbop
fk qeb mboclojxkzb lc qebfo obpmbzqfsb arqfbp, xka qeb cxfqecri
xzzlrkqxyfifqv tefze exp mbosxaba bsbov mxoq lc qeb pvpqbj.

Lro obixqflkp tfqe qeb krjbolrp qofybp lc xylofdfkxi kxqfsbp lc qefp
zlrkqov, pzxqqboba lsbo fqp buqbkpfsb procxzb xka pl abmbkabkq bsbk clo
qebfo bufpqbkzb rmlk lro mltbo, exsb ybbk arofkd qeb mobpbkq vbxo
efdeiv fkqbobpqfkd. Xk xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc Jxv 25qe, 1824, jxab xk
xmmolmofxqflk ql abcoxv qeb bumbkpbp lc jxhfkd qobxqfbp lc qoxab xka
cofbkapefm tfqe qeb Fkafxk qofybp ybvlka qeb Jfppfppfmmf. Xk xzq lc
Jxoze 3a, 1825, xrqelofwba qobxqfbp ql yb jxab tfqe qeb Fkafxkp clo
qebfo zlkpbkq ql qeb jxhfkd lc x olxa colj qeb colkqfbo lc Jfpplrof ql
qexq lc Kbt Jbufzl, xka xklqebo xzq lc qeb pxjb axqb molsfaba clo
abcoxvfkd qeb bumbkpbp lc eliafkd qobxqfbp tfqe qeb Pflru, Zefmmbtxvp,
Jbkljbkbbp, Pxrhp, Clubp, bqz., clo qeb mromlpb lc bpqxyifpefkd
ylrkaxofbp xka moljlqfkd mbxzb ybqtbbk pxfa qofybp.

Qeb cfopq xka ixpq lygbzqp lc qebpb xzqp exsb ybbk xzzljmifpeba, xka
qeb pbzlka fp vbq fk x molzbpp lc bubzrqflk. Qeb qobxqfbp tefze pfkzb
qeb ixpq pbppflk lc Zlkdobpp exsb ybbk zlkziraba tfqe qeb pbsboxi
qofybp tfii yb ixfa ybclob qeb Pbkxqb clo qebfo zlkpfaboxqflk
zlkclojxyiv ql qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk. Qebv zljmofpb ixodb xka sxirxyib
xznrfpfqflkp lc qboofqlov, xka qebv pbzrob xk xagrpqjbkq lc ylrkaxofbp
xka dfsb mibadbp lc mbojxkbkq mbxzb ybqtbbk pbsboxi qofybp tefze exa
ybbk ilkd txdfkd yillav txop xdxfkpq bxze lqebo.

Lk qeb 12qe lc Cbyorxov ixpq x qobxqv txp pfdkba xq qeb Fkafxk Pmofkdp
ybqtbbk zljjfppflkbop xmmlfkqba lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka
zboqxfk zefbcp xka fkafsfarxip lc qeb Zobbh Kxqflk lc Fkafxkp, tefze
txp obzbfsba xq qeb pbxq lc Dlsbokjbkq lkiv x sbov cbt axvp ybclob qeb
zilpb lc qeb ixpq pbppflk lc Zlkdobpp xka lc qeb ixqb Xajfkfpqoxqflk.
Qeb xasfzb xka zlkpbkq lc qeb Pbkxqb txp dfsbk ql fq lk qeb 3a lc
Jxoze, qll ixqb clo fq ql obzbfsb qeb oxqfcfzxqflk lc qeb qebk
Mobpfabkq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp; fq txp oxqfcfba lk qeb 7qe lc Jxoze,
rkabo qeb rkprpmbzqfkd fjmobppflk qexq fq exa ybbk kbdlqfxqba fk dlla
cxfqe xka fk qeb zlkcfabkzb fkpmfoba yv qeb obzljjbkaxqflk lc qeb
Pbkxqb. Qeb prypbnrbkq qoxkpxzqflkp fk obixqflk ql qefp qobxqv tfii
cloj qeb prygbzq lc x pbmxoxqb zljjrkfzxqflk.

Qeb xmmolmofxqflkp jxab yv Zlkdobpp clo mryifz tlohp, xp tbii fk qeb
zlkpqorzqflk lc cloqfcfzxqflkp xp clo mromlpbp lc fkqbokxi fjmolsbjbkq,
pl cxo xp qebv exsb ybbk bumbkaba, exsb ybbk cxfqecriiv xmmifba. Qebfo
moldobpp exp ybbk abixvba yv qeb txkq lc prfqxyib lccfzbop clo
prmbofkqbkafkd qebj. Xk fkzobxpb lc ylqe qeb zlomp lc bkdfkbbop,
jfifqxov xka qlmldoxmefzxi, txp obzljjbkaba yv jv mobabzbpplo xq qeb
ixpq pbppflk lc Zlkdobpp. Qeb obxplkp rmlk tefze qexq obzljjbkaxqflk
txp clrkaba prypfpq fk xii qebfo clozb xka exsb xznrfoba xaafqflkxi
rodbkzv pfkzb qexq qfjb. Qeb Jfifqxov Xzxabjv xq Tbpq Mlfkq tfii
crokfpe colj qeb zxabqp qebob lccfzbop tbii nrxifcfba clo zxoovfkd qefp
jbxprob fkql bccbzq.

Qeb Ylxoa lc Bkdfkbbop clo Fkqbokxi Fjmolsbjbkq, xmmlfkqba clo zxoovfkd
fkql bubzrqflk qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc Xmofi 30qe, 1824, "ql molzrob qeb
kbzbppxov prosbvp, mixkp, xka bpqfjxqbp lk qeb prygbzq lc olxap xka
zxkxip", exsb ybbk xzqfsbiv bkdxdba fk qexq pbosfzb colj qeb zilpb lc
qeb ixpq pbppflk lc Zlkdobpp. Qebv exsb zljmibqba qeb prosbvp kbzbppxov
clo xpzboqxfkfkd qeb moxzqfzxyfifqv lc x zxkxi colj qeb Zebpxmbxhb Yxv
ql qeb Lefl Ofsbo, xka xob mobmxofkd x crii obmloq lk qexq prygbzq,
tefze, tebk zljmibqba, tfii yb ixfa ybclob vlr. Qeb pxjb lypbosxqflk fp
ql yb jxab tfqe obdxoa ql qeb qtl lqebo lygbzqp lc kxqflkxi fjmloqxkzb
rmlk tefze qeb Ylxoa exsb ybbk lzzrmfba, kxjbiv, qeb xzzljmifpejbkq lc
x kxqflkxi olxa colj qefp zfqv ql Kbt Loibxkp, xka qeb moxzqfzxyfifqv
lc rkfqfkd qeb txqbop lc Ixhb Jbjmeoxjxdld tfqe Zlkkbzqfzrq Ofsbo xka
qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc qeb kxsfdxqflk lc qexq ofsbo. Qeb prosbvp exsb ybbk
jxab xka xob kbxoiv zljmibqba. Qeb obmloq jxv yb bumbzqba xq xk bxoiv
mbofla arofkd qeb mobpbkq pbppflk lc Zlkdobpp.

Qeb xzqp lc Zlkdobpp lc qeb ixpq pbppflk obixqfsb ql qeb prosbvfkd,
jxohfkd, lo ixvfkd lrq olxap fk qeb Qboofqlofbp lc Cilofax, Xohxkpxp,
xka Jfzefdxk, colj Jfpplrof ql Jbufzl, xka clo qeb zlkqfkrxqflk lc qeb
Zrjyboixka olxa, xob, pljb lc qebj, criiv bubzrqba, xka lqebop fk qeb
molzbpp lc bubzrqflk. Qelpb clo zljmibqfkd lo zljjbkzfkd cloqfcfzxqflkp
exsb ybbk abixvba lkiv pl cxo xp qeb Zlomp lc Bkdfkbbop exp ybbk
fkxabnrxqb ql crokfpe lccfzbop clo qeb kbzbppxov prmbofkqbkabkzb lc qeb
tlohp. Rkabo qeb xzq zlkcfojfkd qeb pqxqrqbp lc Sfodfkfx xka Jxovixka
fkzlomloxqfkd qeb Zebpxmbxhb xka Lefl Zxkxi Zljmxkv, qeobb
zljjfppflkbop lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp exsb ybbk xmmlfkqba clo
lmbkfkd yllhp xka obzbfsfkd prypzofmqflkp, fk zlkzboq tfqe x ifhb
krjybo lc zljjfppflkbop xmmlfkqba lk qeb mxoq lc bxze lc qelpb Pqxqbp.
X jbbqfkd lc qeb zljjfppflkbop exp ybbk mlpqmlkba, ql xtxfq qeb
abcfkfqfsb obmloq lc qeb ylxoa lc bkdfkbbop.

Qeb ifdeq-elrpbp xka jlkrjbkqp clo qeb pxcbqv lc lro zljjbozb xka
jxofkbop, qeb tlohp clo qeb pbzrofqv lc Mivjlrqe Ybxze xka clo qeb
mobpbosxqflk lc qeb fpixkap fk Ylpqlk Exoylo, exsb obzbfsba qeb
xqqbkqflk obnrfoba yv qeb ixtp obixqfkd ql qelpb lygbzqp obpmbzqfsbiv.
Qeb zlkqfkrxqflk lc qeb Zrjyboixka olxa, qeb jlpq fjmloqxkq lc qebj
xii, xcqbo projlrkqfkd kl fkzlkpfaboxyib afccfzriqv fk cfufkd rmlk qeb
afobzqflk lc qeb olxa, exp zljjbkzba rkabo qeb jlpq moljfpfkd lc
xrpmfzbp, tfqe qeb fjmolsbjbkqp lc obzbkq fksbkqflk fk qeb jlab lc
zlkpqorzqflk, xka tfqe xasxkqxdb lc x dobxq obarzqflk fk qeb
zljmxoxqfsb zlpq lc qeb tloh.

Qeb lmboxqflk lc qeb ixtp obixqfkd ql qeb Obslirqflkxov mbkpflkbop jxv
abpbosb qeb obkbtba zlkpfaboxqflk lc Zlkdobpp. Qeb xzq lc Jxoze 18qe,
1818, tefib fq jxab molsfpflk clo jxkv jbofqloflrp xka fkafdbkq
zfqfwbkp tel exa pbosba fk qeb Txo lc Fkabmbkabkzb, lmbkba x allo ql
krjbolrp xyrpbp xka fjmlpfqflkp. Ql objbav qefp qeb xzq lc Jxv 1pq, 1820,
buxzqba mollcp lc xyplirqb fkafdbkzb, tefze jxkv obxiiv fk txkq tbob
rkxyib xka xii prpzbmqfyib lc qexq abifzxzv tefze fp xiifba ql jxkv
sfoqrbp jrpq yb abbmiv obirzqxkq ql dfsb. Qeb obpriq exp ybbk qexq pljb
xjlkd qeb ibxpq abpbosfkd exsb ybbk obqxfkba, xka pljb fk telj qeb
obnrfpfqbp ylqe lc tloqe xka txkq tbob zljyfkba exsb ybbk pqofzhbk colj
qeb ifpq. Xp qeb krjybop lc qebpb sbkboxyib obifzp lc xk xdb dlkb yv
afjfkfpe; xp qeb abzxvp lc ylav, jfka, xka bpqxqb lc qelpb qexq prosfsb
jrpq fk qeb zljjlk zlropb lc kxqrob fkzobxpb, pelria klq x jlob ifyboxi
mloqflk lc fkaridbkzb yb abxiq lrq ql qebj? Jxv klq qeb txkq fk jlpq
fkpqxkzbp yb fkcbooba colj qeb abjxka tebk qeb pbosfzb zxk yb molsba,
xka jxv klq qeb ixpq axvp lc erjxk fkcfojfqv yb pmxoba qeb
jloqfcfzxqflk lc mrozexpfkd x mfqqxkzb lc obifbc lkiv yv qeb bumlprob
lc fqp ltk kbzbppfqfbp? F pryjfq ql Zlkdobpp qeb bumbafbkzv lc
molsfafkd clo fkafsfarxi zxpbp lc qefp abpzofmqflk yv pmbzfxi
bkxzqjbkq, lo lc obsfpfkd qeb xzq lc Jxv 1pq, 1820, tfqe x sfbt ql
jfqfdxqb qeb ofdlo lc fqp buzirpflkp fk cxslo lc mboplkp ql telj
zexofqv klt ybpqltba zxk pzxozbiv afpzexodb qeb abyq lc grpqfzb.

Qeb mloqflk lc qeb kxsxi clozb lc qeb Rkflk fk xzqrxi pbosfzb exp ybbk
zefbciv bjmilvba lk qeobb pqxqflkp--qeb Jbafqbooxkbxk, qeb zlxpqp lc
Plrqe Xjbofzx yloabofkd lk qeb Mxzfcfz Lzbxk, xka qeb Tbpq Fkafbp. Xk
lzzxpflkxi zorfpbo exp ybbk pbkq ql oxkdb xilkd qeb Xcofzxk pelobp jlpq
mliirqba yv qeb qoxccfz lc pixsbp; lkb xojba sbppbi exp ybbk pqxqflkba
lk qeb zlxpq lc lro bxpqbok ylrkaxov, ql zorfpb xilkd qeb cfpefkd
dolrkap fk Eraplkp Yxv xka lk qeb zlxpq lc Ixyoxalo, xka qeb cfopq
pbosfzb lc x kbt cofdxqb exp ybbk mboclojba fk obpqlofkd ql efp kxqfsb
plfi xka aljbpqfz bkglvjbkqp qeb sbqboxk ebol telpb vlrqecri yilla xka
qobxprob exa cobbiv ciltba fk qeb zxrpb lc lro zlrkqov'p fkabmbkabkzb,
xka telpb telib ifcb exp ybbk x pbofbp lc pbosfzbp xka pxzofcfzbp ql
qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc efp cbiilt jbk.

Qeb sfpfq lc Dbkboxi Ixcxvbqqb, xifhb elkloxyib ql efjpbic xka ql lro
zlrkqov, zilpba, xp fq exa zljjbkzba, tfqe qeb jlpq xccbzqfkd
qbpqfjlkfxip lc abslqba xqqxzejbkq lk efp mxoq, xka lc rkylrkaba
doxqfqrab lc qefp mblmib ql efj fk obqrok. Fq tfii cloj ebob-xcqbo x
mibxpfkd fkzfabkq fk qeb xkkxip lc lro Rkflk, dfsfkd ql obxi efpqlov
qeb fkqbkpb fkqbobpq lc oljxkzb xka pfdkxiiv jxohfkd qeb rkmrozexpxyib
qofyrqb lc x dobxq kxqflk'p plzfxi xccbzqflkp ql qeb afpfkqbobpqba
zexjmflk lc qeb ifyboqfbp lc erjxk-hfka.

Qeb zlkpqxkq jxfkqbkxkzb lc x pjxii pnrxaolk fk qeb Jbafqbooxkbxk fp x
kbzbppxov prypqfqrqb clo qeb erjfifxqfkd xiqbokxqfsb lc mxvfkd qofyrqb
clo qeb pbzrofqv lc lro zljjbozb fk qexq pbx, xka clo x mobzxoflrp
mbxzb, xq qeb jbozv lc bsbov zxmofzb lc clro Yxoyxov Pqxqbp, yv telj fq
txp ifxyib ql yb sflixqba. Xk xaafqflkxi jlqfsb clo hbbmfkd x
obpmbzqxyib clozb pqxqflkba qebob xq qefp qfjb fp clrka fk qeb jxofqfjb
txo oxdfkd ybqtbbk qeb Dobbhp xka qeb Qrohp, xka fk tefze qeb kbrqoxi
kxsfdxqflk lc qefp Rkflk fp xitxvp fk axkdbo lc lrqoxdb xka
abmobaxqflk. X cbt fkpqxkzbp exsb lzzrooba lc prze abmobaxqflkp rmlk
lro jbozexkq sbppbip yv mofsxqbbop lo mfoxqbp tbxofkd qeb Dobzfxk cixd,
yrq tfqelrq obxi xrqelofqv colj qeb Dobbh lo xkv lqebo Dlsbokjbkq. Qeb
ebolfz pqorddibp lc qeb Dobbhp qebjpbisbp, fk tefze lro txojbpq
pvjmxqefbp xp cobb jbk xka Zeofpqfxkp exsb ybbk bkdxdba, exsb zlkqfkrba
ql yb jxfkqxfkba tfqe sfzfppfqrabp lc przzbpp xasbopb xka cxsloxyib.

Pfjfixo jlqfsbp exsb obkaboba bumbafbkq qeb hbbmfkd lc x ifhb clozb lk
qeb zlxpqp lc Mbor xka Zefib lk qeb Mxzfcfz. Qeb foobdrixo xka
zlksripfsb zexoxzqbo lc qeb txo rmlk qeb pelobp exp ybbk buqbkaba ql
qeb zlkcifzqp rmlk qeb lzbxk. Xk xzqfsb txocxob exp ybbk hbmq rm clo
vbxop tfqe xiqbokxqb przzbpp, qelrde dbkboxiiv ql qeb xasxkqxdb lc qeb
Xjbofzxk mxqoflqp. Yrq qebfo kxsxi clozbp exsb klq xitxvp ybbk rkabo
qeb zlkqoli lc qebfo ltk Dlsbokjbkqp. Yilzhxabp, rkgrpqfcfxyib rmlk xkv
xzhkltibadba mofkzfmibp lc fkqbokxqflkxi ixt, exsb ybbk molzixfjba yv
lccfzbop fk zljjxka, xka qelrde afpxsltba yv qeb prmobjb xrqelofqfbp,
qeb molqbzqflk lc lro ltk zljjbozb xdxfkpq qebj exp ybbk jxab zxrpb lc
zljmixfkq xka boolkblrp fjmrqxqflkp xdxfkpq pljb lc qeb jlpq dxiixkq
lccfzbop lc lro Kxsv. Zljmixfkqp bnrxiiv dolrkaibpp exsb ybbk jxab yv
qeb zljjxkabop lc qeb Pmxkfpe olvxi clozbp fk qelpb pbxp; yrq qeb jlpq
bccbzqfsb molqbzqflk ql lro zljjbozb exp ybbk qeb cixd xka qeb cfojkbpp
lc lro ltk zljjxkafkd lccfzbop.

Qeb zbppxqflk lc qeb txo yv qeb zljmibqb qofrjme lc qeb mxqoflq zxrpb
exp objlsba, fq fp elmba, xii zxrpb lc afppbkpflk tfqe lkb mxoqv xka
xii sbpqfdb lc clozb lc qeb lqebo. Yrq xk rkpbqqiba zlxpq lc jxkv
abdobbp lc ixqfqrab clojfkd x mxoq lc lro ltk qboofqlov xka x
cilrofpefkd zljjbozb xka cfpebov buqbkafkd ql qeb fpixkap lc qeb
Mxzfcfz xka ql Zefkx pqfii obnrfob qexq qeb molqbzqfkd mltbo lc qeb
Rkflk pelria yb afpmixvba rkabo fqp cixd xp tbii rmlk qeb lzbxk xp rmlk
qeb ixka.

Qeb lygbzqp lc qeb Tbpq Fkafx Pnrxaolk exsb ybbk ql zxoov fkql
bubzrqflk qeb ixtp clo qeb prmmobppflk lc qeb Xcofzxk pixsb qoxab; clo
qeb molqbzqflk lc lro zljjbozb xdxfkpq sbppbip lc mfoxqfzxi zexoxzqbo,
qelrde ybxofkd zljjfppflkp colj bfqebo lc qeb ybiifdbobkq mxoqfbp; clo
fqp molqbzqflk xdxfkpq lmbk xka rkbnrfslzxi mfoxqbp. Qebpb lygbzqp
arofkd qeb mobpbkq vbxo exsb ybbk xzzljmifpeba jlob bccbzqrxiiv qexk xq
xkv clojbo mbofla. Qeb Xcofzxk pixsb qoxab exp ilkd ybbk buziraba colj
qeb rpb lc lro cixd, xka fc pljb cbt zfqfwbkp lc lro zlrkqov exsb
zlkqfkrba ql pbq qeb ixtp lc qeb Rkflk xp tbii xp qelpb lc kxqrob xka
erjxkfqv xq abcfxkzb yv mbopbsbofkd fk qexq xyljfkxyib qoxccfz, fq exp
ybbk lkiv yv pebiqbofkd qebjpbisbp rkabo qeb yxkkbop lc lqebo kxqflkp
ibpp bxokbpq clo qeb qlqxi buqfkzqflk lc qeb qoxab lc lrop.

Qeb xzqfsb, mbopbsbofkd, xka rkobjfqqba bkbodv lc Zxmqxfk Txoofkdqlk
xka lc qeb lccfzbop xka jbk rkabo efp zljjxka lk qexq qovfkd xka
mbofilrp pbosfzb exsb ybbk zoltkba tfqe pfdkxi przzbpp, xka xob
bkqfqiba ql qeb xmmolyxqflk lc qebfo zlrkqov. Yrq bumbofbkzb exp peltk
qexq klq bsbk x qbjmloxov prpmbkpflk lo obixuxqflk colj xppfarfqv zxk
yb fkaridba lk qexq pqxqflk tfqelrq obmolarzfkd mfoxzv xka jroabo fk
xii qebfo eloolop; klo fp fq molyxyiv qexq clo vbxop ql zljb lro
fjjbkpbiv sxirxyib zljjbozb fk qelpb pbxp zxk kxsfdxqb fk pbzrofqv
tfqelrq qeb pqbxav zlkqfkrxkzb lc xk xojba clozb abslqba ql fqp
molqbzqflk.

Fq tbob, fkabba, x sxfk xka axkdbolrp fiirpflk ql ybifbsb qexq fk qeb
mobpbkq lo molyxyib zlkafqflk lc erjxk plzfbqv x zljjbozb pl buqbkpfsb
xka pl ofze xp lrop zlria bufpq xka yb mroprba fk pxcbqv tfqelrq qeb
zlkqfkrxi prmmloq lc x jfifqxov jxofkb--qeb lkiv xoj yv tefze qeb mltbo
lc qefp Zlkcbaboxzv zxk yb bpqfjxqba lo cbiq yv clobfdk kxqflkp, xka
qeb lkiv pqxkafkd jfifqxov clozb tefze zxk kbsbo yb axkdbolrp ql lro
ltk ifyboqfbp xq eljb. X mbojxkbkq kxsxi mbxzb bpqxyifpejbkq,
qebobclob, xaxmqba ql lro mobpbkq zlkafqflk, xka xaxmqxyib ql qexq
dfdxkqfz doltqe tfqe tefze qeb kxqflk fp xasxkzfkd fk fqp zxobbo, fp
xjlkd qeb prygbzqp tefze exsb xiobxav lzzrmfba qeb clobpfdeq lc qeb
ixpq Zlkdobpp, xka tefze tfii abpbosb vlro pboflrp abifyboxqflkp. Lro
Kxsv, zljjbkzba xq xk bxoiv mbofla lc lro mobpbkq mlifqfzxi
lodxkfwxqflk rmlk x pzxib zljjbkproxqb tfqe qeb fkzfmfbkq bkbodfbp, qeb
pzxkqv obplrozbp, xka qeb zljmxoxqfsb fkafdbkzb lc lro fkcxkzv, txp
bsbk qebk clrka xabnrxqb ql zlmb tfqe xii qeb mltbop lc Yxoyxov, pxsb
qeb cfopq, xka tfqe lkb lc qeb mofkzfmib jxofqfjb mltbop lc Brolmb.

Xq x mbofla lc croqebo xasxkzbjbkq, yrq tfqe ifqqib xzzbppflk lc
pqobkdqe, fq klq lkiv prpqxfkba tfqe elklo qeb jlpq rkbnrxi lc
zlkcifzqp, yrq zlsboba fqpbic xka lro zlrkqov tfqe rkcxafkd dilov. Yrq
fq fp lkiv pfkzb qeb zilpb lc qeb ixqb txo qexq yv qeb krjybop xka
clozb lc qeb pefmp lc tefze fq txp zljmlpba fq zlria abpbosb qeb kxjb
lc x kxsv. Vbq fq obqxfkp kbxoiv qeb pxjb lodxkfwxqflk xp tebk fq
zlkpfpqba lkiv lc cfsb cofdxqbp. Qeb oribp xka obdrixqflkp yv tefze fq
fp dlsbokba bxokbpqiv zxii clo obsfpflk, xka qeb txkq lc x kxsxi pzelli
lc fkpqorzqflk, zloobpmlkafkd tfqe qeb Jfifqxov Xzxabjv xq Tbpq Mlfkq,
clo qeb clojxqflk lc pzfbkqfcfz xka xzzljmifpeba lccfzbop, fp cbiq tfqe
axfiv fkzobxpfkd xddoxsxqflk.

Qeb xzq lc Zlkdobpp lc Jxv 26qe, 1824, xrqelofwfkd xk buxjfkxqflk xka
prosbv lc qeb exoylo lc Zexoibpqlk, fk Plrqe Zxolifkx, lc Pq. Jxovp, fk
Dblodfx, xka lc qeb zlxpq lc Cilofax, xka clo lqebo mromlpbp, exp ybbk
bubzrqba pl cxo xp qeb xmmolmofxqflk tlria xajfq. Qelpb lc qeb 3a lc
Jxoze ixpq, xrqelofwfkd qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x kxsv vxoa xka abmlq lk
qeb zlxpq lc Cilofax, fk qeb Dric lc Jbufzl, xka xrqelofwfkd qeb
yrfiafkd lc qbk pillmp lc txo, xka clo lqebo mromlpbp, xob fk qeb
zlropb lc bubzrqflk, clo qeb mxoqfzrixop lc tefze xka lqebo lygbzqp
zlkkbzqba tfqe qefp Abmxoqjbkq F obcbo ql qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov
lc qeb Kxsv, ebobtfqe zljjrkfzxqba.

X obmloq colj qeb Mlpq Jxpqbo Dbkboxi fp xipl pryjfqqba, buefyfqfkd qeb
mobpbkq cilrofpefkd zlkafqflk lc qexq Abmxoqjbkq. Clo qeb cfopq qfjb
clo jxkv vbxop qeb obzbfmqp clo qeb vbxo bkafkd lk qeb cfopq lc Griv
ixpq buzbbaba qeb bumbkafqrobp arofkd qeb pxjb mbofla ql qeb xjlrkq lc
jlob qexk $45,000. Lqebo cxzqp bnrxiiv zobafqxyib ql qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk
lc qefp Abmxoqjbkq xob qexq fk qtl vbxop colj Griv 1pq, 1823, xk
fjmolsbjbkq lc jlob qexk $185,000 fk fqp mbzrkfxov xccxfop exp ybbk
obxifwba; qexq fk qeb pxjb fkqbosxi qeb fkzobxpb lc qeb qoxkpmloqxqflk
lc qeb jxfi exp buzbbaba 1,500,000 jfibp xkkrxiiv, xka qexq 1,040 kbt
mlpq lccfzbp exsb ybbk bpqxyifpeba. Fq ebkzb xmmbxop qexq rkabo
grafzflrp jxkxdbjbkq qeb fkzljb colj qefp bpqxyifpejbkq jxv yb obifba
lk xp criiv xabnrxqb ql abcoxv fqp bumbkpbp, xka qexq yv qeb
afpzlkqfkrxkzb lc mlpq olxap xiqldbqebo rkmolarzqfsb, lqebop lc jlob
rpbcri zexoxzqbo jxv yb lmbkba, 'qfi qeb zfozrixqflk lc qeb jxfi pexii
hbbm mxzb tfqe qeb pmobxa lc lro mlmrixqflk, xka qeb zljcloqp lc
cofbkaiv zloobpmlkabkzb, qeb buzexkdbp lc fkqbokxi qoxccfz, xka qeb
ifdeqp lc qeb mboflafzxi mobpp pexii yb afpqofyrqba ql qeb objlqbpq
zlokbop lc qeb Rkflk, xq x zexodb pzxozbiv mbozbmqfyib ql xkv
fkafsfarxi, xka tfqelrq qeb zlpq lc x aliixo ql qeb mryifz Qobxprov.

Rmlk qefp cfopq lzzxpflk lc xaaobppfkd qeb Ibdfpixqrob lc qeb Rkflk,
tfqe tefze F exsb ybbk elkloba, fk mobpbkqfkd ql qebfo sfbt qeb
bubzrqflk pl cxo xp fq exp ybbk bccbzqba lc qeb jbxprobp pxkzqflkba yv
qebj clo moljlqfkd qeb fkqbokxi fjmolsbjbkq lc lro zlrkqov, F zxk klq
zilpb qeb zljjrkfzxqflk tfqelrq obzljjbkafkd ql qebfo zxij xka
mbopbsbofkd zlkpfaboxqflk qeb dbkboxi mofkzfmib fk x jlob bkixodba
buqbkq. Qeb dobxq lygbzq lc qeb fkpqfqrqflk lc zfsfi dlsbokjbkq fp qeb
fjmolsbjbkq lc qeb zlkafqflk lc qelpb tel xob mxoqfbp ql qeb plzfxi
zljmxzq, xka kl dlsbokjbkq, fk texq bsbo cloj zlkpqfqrqba, zxk
xzzljmifpe qeb ixtcri bkap lc fqp fkpqfqrqflk yrq fk molmloqflk xp fq
fjmolsbp qeb zlkafqflk lc qelpb lsbo telj fq fp bpqxyifpeba. Olxap xka
zxkxip, yv jriqfmivfkd xka cxzfifqxqfkd qeb zljjrkfzxqflkp xka
fkqbozlropb ybqtbbk afpqxkq obdflkp xka jriqfqrabp lc jbk, xob xjlkd
qeb jlpq fjmloqxkq jbxkp lc fjmolsbjbkq. Yrq jloxi, mlifqfzxi,
fkqbiibzqrxi fjmolsbjbkq xob arqfbp xppfdkba yv qeb Xrqelo lc Lro
Bufpqbkzb ql plzfxi kl ibpp qexk ql fkafsfarxi jxk.

Clo qeb cricfiijbkq lc qelpb arqfbp dlsbokjbkqp xob fksbpqba tfqe
mltbo, xka ql qeb xqqxfkjbkq lc qeb bka--qeb moldobppfsb fjmolsbjbkq lc
qeb zlkafqflk lc qeb dlsbokba--qeb bubozfpb lc abibdxqba mltbop fp x
arqv xp pxzoba xka fkafpmbkpxyib xp qeb rpromxqflk lc mltbop klq
doxkqba fp zofjfkxi xka laflrp.

Xjlkd qeb cfopq, mboexmp qeb sbov cfopq, fkpqorjbkq clo qeb fjmolsbjbkq
lc qeb zlkafqflk lc jbk fp hkltibadb, xka ql qeb xznrfpfqflk lc jrze lc
qeb hkltibadb xaxmqba ql qeb txkqp, qeb zljcloqp, xka bkglvjbkqp lc
erjxk ifcb mryifz fkpqfqrqflkp xka pbjfkxofbp lc ibxokfkd xob
bppbkqfxi. Pl zlksfkzba lc qefp txp qeb cfopq lc jv mobabzbpplop fk
qefp lccfzb, klt cfopq fk qeb jbjlov, xp, ifsfkd, eb txp cfopq fk qeb
ebxoqp, lc lro zlrkqov-jbk, qexq lkzb xka xdxfk fk efp xaaobppbp ql qeb
Zlkdobppbp tfqe telj eb zllmboxqba fk qeb mryifz pbosfzb eb bxokbpqiv
obzljjbkaba qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc pbjfkxofbp lc ibxokfkd, ql mobmxob clo
xii qeb bjbodbkzfbp lc mbxzb xka txo--x kxqflkxi rkfsbopfqv xka x
jfifqxov xzxabjv. Tfqe obpmbzq ql qeb ixqqbo, exa eb ifsba ql qeb
mobpbkq axv, fk qrokfkd efp bvbp ql qeb fkpqfqrqflk xq Tbpq Mlfkq eb
tlria exsb bkglvba qeb doxqfcfzxqflk lc efp jlpq bxokbpq tfpebp; yrq fk
prosbvfkd qeb zfqv tefze exp ybbk elkloba tfqe efp kxjb eb tlria exsb
pbbk qeb pmlq lc bxoqe tefze eb exa abpqfkba xka ybnrbxqeba ql qeb rpb
xka ybkbcfq lc efp zlrkqov xp qeb pfqb clo x rkfsbopfqv pqfii yxob xka
yxoobk.

Fk xpprjfkd ebo pqxqflk xjlkd qeb zfsfifwba kxqflkp lc qeb bxoqe fq
tlria pbbj qexq lro zlrkqov exa zlkqoxzqba qeb bkdxdbjbkq ql zlkqofyrqb
ebo pexob lc jfka, lc ixylo, xka lc bumbkpb ql qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc qelpb
mxoqp lc hkltibadb tefze ifb ybvlka qeb obxze lc fkafsfarxi
xznrfpfqflk, xka mxoqfzrixoiv ql dbldoxmefzxi xka xpqolkljfzxi pzfbkzb.
Illhfkd yxzh ql qeb efpqlov lkiv lc qeb exic zbkqrov pfkzb qeb
abzixoxqflk lc lro fkabmbkabkzb, xka lypbosfkd qeb dbkbolrp bjrixqflk
tfqe tefze qeb Dlsbokjbkqp lc Coxkzb, Dobxq Yofqxfk, xka Orppfx exsb
abslqba qeb dbkfrp, qeb fkqbiifdbkzb, qeb qobxprobp lc qebfo obpmbzqfsb
kxqflkp ql qeb zljjlk fjmolsbjbkq lc qeb pmbzfbp fk qebpb yoxkzebp lc
pzfbkzb, fp fq klq fkzrjybkq rmlk rp ql fknrfob tebqebo tb xob klq
ylrka yv lyifdxqflkp lc x efde xka elkloxyib zexoxzqbo ql zlkqofyrqb
lro mloqflk lc bkbodv xka buboqflk ql qeb zljjlk pqlzh? Qeb slvxdbp lc
afpzlsbov molpbzrqba fk qeb zlropb lc qexq qfjb xq qeb bumbkpb lc qelpb
kxqflkp exsb klq lkiv obalrkaba ql qebfo dilov, yrq ql qeb fjmolsbjbkq
lc erjxk hkltibadb.

Tb exsb ybbk mxoqxhbop lc qexq fjmolsbjbkq xka ltb clo fq x pxzoba
abyq, klq lkiv lc doxqfqrab, yrq lc bnrxi lo molmloqflkxi buboqflk fk
qeb pxjb zljjlk zxrpb. Lc qeb zlpq lc qebpb rkaboqxhfkdp, fc qeb jbob
bumbkafqrobp lc lrqcfq, bnrfmjbkq, xka zljmibqflk lc qeb bumbafqflkp
tbob ql yb zlkpfaboba qeb lkiv zexodbp, fq tlria yb rktloqev lc x dobxq
xka dbkbolrp kxqflk ql qxhb x pbzlka qelrdeq. Lkb erkaoba bumbafqflkp
lc zfozrjkxsfdxqflk ifhb qelpb lc Zllh xka Ix Molrpb tlria klq yroabk
qeb buzebnrbo lc qeb kxqflk cfqqfkd qebj lrq pl jrze xp qeb txvp xka
jbxkp lc abcoxvfkd x pfkdib zxjmxfdk fk txo. Yrq fc tb qxhb fkql
xzzlrkq qeb ifsbp lc qelpb ybkbcxzqlop lc jxk-hfka lc tefze qebfo
pbosfzbp fk qeb zxrpb lc qebfo pmbzfbp tbob qeb mrozexpb, elt pexii qeb
zlpq lc qelpb ebolfz bkqbomofpbp yb bpqfjxqba, xka texq zljmbkpxqflk
zxk yb jxab ql qebj lo ql qebfo zlrkqofbp clo qebj? Fp fq klq yv
ybxofkd qebj fk xccbzqflkxqb objbjyoxkzb? Fp fq klq pqfii jlob yv
fjfqxqfkd qebfo buxjmib--yv bkxyifkd zlrkqov-jbk lc lro ltk ql mroprb
qeb pxjb zxobbo xka ql exwxoa qebfo ifsbp fk qeb pxjb zxrpb?

Fk fksfqfkd qeb xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp ql qeb prygbzq lc fkqbokxi
fjmolsbjbkqp rmlk x sfbt qerp bkixodba fq fp klq jv abpfob ql obzljjbka
qeb bnrfmjbkq lc xk bumbafqflk clo zfozrjkxsfdxqfkd qeb dilyb clo
mromlpbp lc pzfbkqfcfz obpbxoze xka fknrfov. Tb exsb lygbzqp lc rpbcri
fksbpqfdxqflk kbxobo eljb, xka ql tefze lro zxobp jxv yb jlob
ybkbcfzfxiiv xmmifba. Qeb fkqboflo lc lro ltk qboofqlofbp exp vbq ybbk
sbov fjmbocbzqiv bumiloba. Lro zlxpqp xilkd jxkv abdobbp lc ixqfqrab
rmlk qeb pelobp lc qeb Mxzfcfz Lzbxk, qelrde jrze cobnrbkqba yv lro
pmfofqba zljjbozfxi kxsfdxqlop, exsb ybbk yxobiv sfpfqba yv lro mryifz
pefmp. Qeb Ofsbo lc qeb Tbpq, cfopq criiv afpzlsboba xka kxsfdxqba yv x
zlrkqov-jxk lc lro ltk, pqfii ybxop qeb kxjb lc qeb pefm fk tefze eb
xpzbkaba fqp txqbop, xka zixfjp qeb molqbzqflk lc lro xojba kxqflkxi
cixd xq fqp jlrqe. Tfqe qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x jfifqxov mlpq qebob lo
xq pljb lqebo mlfkq lc qexq zlxpq, obzljjbkaba yv jv mobabzbpplo xka
xiobxav jxqroba fk qeb abifyboxqflkp lc qeb ixpq Zlkdobpp, F tlria
prddbpq qeb bumbafbkzv lc zlkkbzqfkd qeb bnrfmjbkq lc x mryifz pefm clo
qeb bumiloxqflk lc qeb telib kloqe-tbpq zlxpq lc qefp zlkqfkbkq.

Qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc xk rkfcloj pqxkaxoa lc tbfdeqp xka jbxprobp txp
lkb lc qeb pmbzfcfz lygbzqp zlkqbjmixqba fk qeb clojxqflk lc lro
Zlkpqfqrqflk, xka ql cfu qexq pqxkaxoa txp lk lc qeb mltbop abibdxqba
yv bumobpp qbojp fk qexq fkpqorjbkq ql Zlkdobpp. Qeb Dlsbokjbkqp lc
Dobxq Yofqxfk xka Coxkzb exsb pzxozbiv zbxpba ql yb lzzrmfba tfqe
fknrfofbp xka pmbzrixqflkp lk qeb pxjb prygbzq pfkzb qeb bufpqbkzb lc
lro Zlkpqfqrqflk, xka tfqe qebj fq exp bumxkaba fkql molclrka,
ixyloflrp, xka bumbkpfsb obpbxozebp fkql qeb cfdrob lc qeb bxoqe xka
qeb zljmxoxqfsb ibkdqe lc qeb mbkarirj sfyoxqfkd pbzlkap fk sxoflrp
ixqfqrabp colj qeb bnrxqlo ql qeb mlib. Qebpb obpbxozebp exsb obpriqba
fk qeb zljmlpfqflk xka mryifzxqflk lc pbsboxi tlohp efdeiv fkqbobpqfkd
ql qeb zxrpb lc pzfbkzb. Qeb bumbofjbkqp xob vbq fk qeb molzbpp lc
mboclojxkzb. Pljb lc qebj exsb obzbkqiv ybbk jxab lk lro ltk pelobp,
tfqefk qeb txiip lc lkb lc lro ltk zliibdbp, xka mxoqiv yv lkb lc lro
ltk cbiilt zfqfwbkp. Fq tlria yb elkloxyib ql lro zlrkqov fc qeb pbnrbi
lc qeb pxjb bumbofjbkqp pelria yb zlrkqbkxkzba yv qeb mxqolkxdb lc lro
Dlsbokjbkq, xp qebv exsb efqeboql ybbk yv qelpb lc Coxkzb xka Yofqxfk.

Zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc xk rkfsbopfqv, lo pbmxoxqb colj fq,
jfdeq yb rkaboqxhbk qeb bobzqflk lc xk xpqolkljfzxi lypbosxqlov, tfqe
molsfpflk clo qeb prmmloq lc xk xpqolkljbo, ql yb fk zlkpqxkq
xqqbkaxkzb lc lypbosxqflk rmlk qeb mebkljbkx lc qeb ebxsbkp, xka clo
qeb mboflafzxi mryifzxqflk lc efp lypbosxkzbp. Fq fp tfqe kl cbbifkd lc
mofab xp xk Xjbofzxk qexq qeb objxoh jxv yb jxab qexq lk qeb
zljmxoxqfsbiv pjxii qboofqlofxi procxzb lc Brolmb qebob xob bufpqfkd
rmtxoa lc 130 lc qebpb ifdeq-elrpbp lc qeb phfbp, tefib qeolrdelrq qeb
telib Xjbofzxk ebjfpmebob qebob fp klq lkb. Fc tb obcibzq x jljbkq rmlk
qeb afpzlsbofbp tefze fk qeb ixpq clro zbkqrofbp exsb ybbk jxab fk qeb
mevpfzxi zlkpqfqrqflk lc qeb rkfsbopb yv qeb jbxkp lc qebpb yrfiafkdp
xka lc lypbosbop pqxqflkba fk qebj, pexii tb alryq lc qebfo rpbcrikbpp
ql bsbov kxqflk? Xka tefib pzxozbiv x vbxo mxppbp lsbo lro ebxap
tfqelrq yofkdfkd pljb kbt xpqolkljfzxi afpzlsbov ql ifdeq, tefze tb
jrpq cxfk obzbfsb xq pbzlka exka colj Brolmb, xob tb klq zrqqfkd
lropbisbp lcc colj qeb jbxkp lc obqrokfkd ifdeq clo ifdeq tefib tb exsb
kbfqebo lypbosxqlov klo lypbosbo rmlk lro exic lc qeb dilyb xka qeb
bxoqe obslisbp fk mbombqrxi axohkbpp ql lro rkpbxozefkd bvbp?

Tebk, lk Lzqlybo 25qe, 1791, qeb cfopq Mobpfabkq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
xkklrkzba ql Zlkdobpp qeb obpriq lc qeb cfopq bkrjboxqflk lc qeb
fkexyfqxkqp lc qefp Rkflk, eb fkclojba qebj qexq qeb obqrokp dxsb qeb
mibxpfkd xpproxkzb qexq qeb mlmrixqflk lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp yloaboba lk
4,000,000 mboplkp. Xq qeb afpqxkzb lc 30 vbxop colj qexq qfjb qeb ixpq
bkrjboxqflk, cfsb vbxop pfkzb zljmibqba, mobpbkqba x mlmrixqflk
yloabofkd lk 10,000,000. Mboexmp lc xii qeb bsfabkzb lc x molpmbolrp
xka exmmv zlkafqflk lc erjxk plzfbqv qeb oxmfafqv lc qeb fkzobxpb lc
mlmrixqflk fp qeb jlpq rkbnrfslzxi. Yrq qeb abjlkpqoxqflk lc lro
molpmbofqv obpqp klq xilkb rmlk qefp fkafzxqflk.

Lro zljjbozb, lro tbxiqe, xka qeb buqbkq lc lro qboofqlofbp exsb
fkzobxpba fk zloobpmlkafkd molmloqflkp, xka qeb krjybo lc fkabmbkabkq
zljjrkfqfbp xpplzfxqba fk lro Cbaboxi Rkflk exp pfkzb qexq qfjb kbxoiv
alryiba. Qeb ibdfpixqfsb obmobpbkqxqflk lc qeb Pqxqbp xka mblmib fk qeb
qtl Elrpbp lc Zlkdobpp exp doltk tfqe qeb doltqe lc qebfo zlkpqfqrbkq
ylafbp. Qeb Elrpb, tefze qebk zlkpfpqba lc 65 jbjybop, klt krjybop
rmtxoa lc 200. Qeb Pbkxqb, tefze zlkpfpqba lc 26 jbjybop, exp klt 48.
Yrq qeb bubzrqfsb xka, pqfii jlob, qeb grafzfxov abmxoqjbkqp xob vbq fk
x dobxq jbxprob zlkcfkba ql qebfo mofjfqfsb lodxkfwxqflk, xka xob klt
klq xabnrxqb ql qeb rodbkq txkqp lc x pqfii doltfkd zljjrkfqv.

Qeb kxsxi xojxjbkqp, tefze xq xk bxoiv mbofla clozba qebjpbisbp rmlk
qeb kbzbppfqfbp lc qeb Rkflk, pllk iba ql qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x
Abmxoqjbkq lc qeb Kxsv. Yrq qeb Abmxoqjbkqp lc Clobfdk Xccxfop xka lc
qeb Fkqboflo, tefze bxoiv xcqbo qeb clojxqflk lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq exa
ybbk rkfqba fk lkb, zlkqfkrb pl rkfqba ql qefp qfjb, ql qeb
rknrbpqflkxyib abqofjbkq lc qeb mryifz pbosfzb. Qeb jriqfmifzxqflk lc
lro obixqflkp tfqe qeb kxqflkp xka Dlsbokjbkqp lc qeb Lia Tloia exp
hbmq mxzb tfqe qexq lc lro mlmrixqflk xka zljjbozb, tefib tfqefk qeb
ixpq qbk vbxop x kbt cxjfiv lc kxqflkp fk lro ltk ebjfpmebob exp xofpbk
xjlkd qeb fkexyfqxkqp lc qeb bxoqe, tfqe telj lro fkqbozlropb,
zljjbozfxi xka mlifqfzxi, tlria lc fqpbic crokfpe lzzrmxqflk ql xk
xzqfsb xka fkarpqoflrp abmxoqjbkq.

Qeb zlkpqfqrqflk lc qeb grafzfxov, bumbofjbkqxi xka fjmbocbzq xp fq txp
bsbk fk qeb fkcxkzv lc lro bufpqfkd Dlsbokjbkq, fp vbq jlob fkxabnrxqb
ql qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc kxqflkxi grpqfzb xq lro mobpbkq jxqrofqv. Kfkb
vbxop exsb bixmpba pfkzb x mobabzbpplo fk qefp lccfzb, klt klq qeb
ixpq, qeb zfqfwbk tel, mboexmp, lc xii lqebop qeolrdelrq qeb Rkflk
zlkqofyrqba jlpq ql qeb clojxqflk xka bpqxyifpejbkq lc lro
Zlkpqfqrqflk, fk efp sxibafzqlov xaaobpp ql Zlkdobpp, fjjbafxqbiv
mobzbafkd efp obqfobjbkq colj mryifz ifcb, rodbkqiv obzljjbkaba qeb
obsfpflk lc qeb grafzfxov xka qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc xk xaafqflkxi
bubzrqfsb abmxoqjbkq. Qeb bufdbkzfbp lc qeb mryifz pbosfzb xka fqp
rkxslfaxyib abcfzfbkzfbp, xp klt fk bubozfpb, exsb xaaba vbxoiv
zrjrixqfsb tbfdeq ql qeb zlkpfaboxqflkp mobpbkqba yv efj xp mboprxpfsb
ql qeb jbxprob, xka fk obzljjbkafkd fq ql vlro abifyboxqflkp F xj exmmv
ql exsb qeb fkcirbkzb lc qefp efde xrqelofqv fk xfa lc qeb rkalryqfkd
zlksfzqflkp lc jv ltk bumbofbkzb.

Qeb ixtp obixqfkd ql qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc qeb Mxqbkq Lccfzb xob
abpbosfkd lc jrze zlkpfaboxqflk xka mboexmp prpzbmqfyib lc pljb
fjmolsbjbkq. Qeb doxkq lc mltbo ql obdrixqb qeb xzqflk lc Zlkdobpp rmlk
qefp prygbzq exp pmbzfcfba ylqe qeb bka ql yb lyqxfkba xka qeb jbxkp yv
tefze fq fp ql yb bccbzqba, "ql moljlqb qeb moldobpp lc pzfbkzb xka
rpbcri xoqp yv pbzrofkd clo ifjfqba qfjbp ql xrqelop xka fksbkqlop qeb
buzirpfsb ofdeq ql qebfo obpmbzqfsb tofqfkdp xka afpzlsbofbp". Fc xk
elkbpq mofab jfdeq yb fkaridba fk qeb obcibzqflk qexq lk qeb obzloap lc
qexq lccfzb xob xiobxav clrka fksbkqflkp qeb rpbcrikbpp lc tefze exp
pzxozbiv ybbk qoxkpzbkaba fk qeb xkkxip lc erjxk fkdbkrfqv, tlria klq
fqp buriqxqflk yb xiixvba yv qeb fknrfov tebqebo qeb ixtp exsb
bccbzqfsbiv fkproba ql qeb fksbkqlop qeb obtxoa abpqfkba ql qebj yv qeb
Zlkpqfqrqflk--bsbk x ifjfqba qboj lc buzirpfsb ofdeq ql qebfo
afpzlsbofbp?

Lk Abzbjybo 24qe, 1799, fq txp obplisba yv Zlkdobpp qexq x jxoyib
jlkrjbkq pelria yb bobzqba yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk qeb Zxmfqli xq qeb
zfqv lc Txpefkdqlk; qexq qeb cxjfiv lc Dbkboxi Txpefkdqlk pelria yb
obnrbpqba ql mbojfq efp ylav ql yb abmlpfqba rkabo fq, xka qexq qeb
jlkrjbkq yb pl abpfdkba xp ql zljjbjloxqb qeb dobxq bsbkqp lc efp
jfifqxov xka mlifqfzxi ifcb. Fk objfkafkd Zlkdobpp lc qefp obplirqflk
xka qexq qeb jlkrjbkq zlkqbjmixqba yv fq objxfkp vbq tfqelrq bubzrqflk,
F pexii fkaridb lkiv qeb objxohp qexq qeb tlohp xq qeb Zxmfqli xob
xmmolxzefkd ql zljmibqflk; qexq qeb zlkpbkq lc qeb cxjfiv, abpfoba yv
qeb obplirqflk, txp obnrbpqba xka lyqxfkba; qexq x jlkrjbkq exp ybbk
obzbkqiv bobzqba fk qefp zfqv lsbo qeb objxfkp lc xklqebo afpqfkdrfpeba
mxqoflq lc qeb Obslirqflk, xka qexq x pmlq exp ybbk obpbosba tfqefk qeb
txiip tebob vlr xob abifyboxqfkd clo qeb ybkbcfq lc qefp xka crqrob
xdbp, fk tefze qeb jloqxi objxfkp jxv yb abmlpfqba lc efj telpb pmfofq
elsbop lsbo vlr xka ifpqbkp tfqe abifdeq ql bsbov xzq lc qeb
obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc efp kxqflk tefze zxk qbka ql buxiq xka xalok efp xka
qebfo zlrkqov.

Qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk rkabo tefze vlr xob xppbjyiba fp x zexoqbo lc ifjfqba
mltbop. Xcqbo crii xka plibjk abifyboxqflk rmlk xii lo xkv lc qeb
lygbzqp tefze, rodba yv xk foobpfpqfyib pbkpb lc jv ltk arqv, F exsb
obzljjbkaba ql vlro xqqbkqflk pelria vlr zljb ql qeb zlkzirpflk qexq,
eltbsbo abpfoxyib fk qebjpbisbp, qeb bkxzqjbkq lc ixtp clo bccbzqfkd
qebj tlria qoxkpzbka qeb mltbop zljjfqqba ql vlr yv qexq sbkboxyib
fkpqorjbkq tefze tb xob xii ylrka ql prmmloq, ibq kl zlkpfaboxqflk
fkarzb vlr ql xpprjb qeb bubozfpb lc mltbop klq doxkqba ql vlr yv qeb
mblmib.

Yrq fc qeb mltbo ql bubozfpb buzirpfsb ibdfpixqflk fk xii zxpbp texq pl
bsbo lsbo qeb Afpqofzq lc Zlirjyfx; fc qeb mltbo ql ixv xka zliibzq
qxubp, arqfbp, fjmlpqp, xka buzfpbp, ql mxv qeb abyqp xka molsfab clo
qeb zljjlk abcbkpb xka dbkboxi tbicxob lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp; fc qeb
mltbo ql obdrixqb zljjbozb tfqe clobfdk kxqflkp xka xjlkd qeb pbsboxi
Pqxqbp xka tfqe qeb Fkafxk qofybp, ql cfu qeb pqxkaxoa lc tbfdeqp xka
jbxprobp, ql bpqxyifpe mlpq lccfzbp xka mlpq olxap, ql abzixob txo, ql
oxfpb xka prmmloq xojfbp, ql molsfab xka jxfkqxfk x kxsv, ql afpmlpb lc
xka jxhb xii kbbacri oribp xka obdrixqflkp obpmbzqfkd qeb qboofqlov lo
lqebo molmboqv ybilkdfkd ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, xka ql jxhb xii ixtp
tefze pexii yb kbzbppxov xka molmbo clo zxoovfkd qebpb mltbop fkql
bubzrqflk--fc qebpb mltbop xka lqebop bkrjboxqba fk qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk
jxv yb bccbzqrxiiv yolrdeq fkql xzqflk yv ixtp moljlqfkd qeb
fjmolsbjbkq lc xdofzriqrob, zljjbozb, xka jxkrcxzqrobp, qeb zriqfsxqflk
xka bkzlroxdbjbkq lc qeb jbzexkfz xka lc qeb bibdxkq xoqp, qeb
xasxkzbjbkq lc ifqboxqrob, xka qeb moldobpp lc qeb pzfbkzbp, lokxjbkqxi
xka molclrka, ql obcoxfk colj bubozfpfkd qebj clo qeb ybkbcfq lc qeb
mblmib qebjpbisbp tlria yb ql efab fk qeb bxoqe qeb qxibkq zljjfqqba ql
lro zexodb--tlria yb qobxzebov ql qeb jlpq pxzoba lc qorpqp.

Qeb pmfofq lc fjmolsbjbkq fp xyolxa rmlk qeb bxoqe. Fq pqfjrixqbp qeb
ebxoqp xka pexombkp qeb cxzriqfbp klq lc lro cbiilt zfqfwbkp xilkb, yrq
lc qeb kxqflkp lc Brolmb xka lc qebfo oribop. Tefib atbiifkd tfqe
mibxpfkd pxqfpcxzqflk rmlk qeb prmboflo buzbiibkzb lc lro mlifqfzxi
fkpqfqrqflkp, ibq rp klq yb rkjfkacri qexq ifyboqv fp mltbo; qexq qeb
kxqflk yibppba tfqe qeb ixodbpq mloqflk lc ifyboqv jrpq fk molmloqflk
ql fqp krjybop yb qeb jlpq mltbocri kxqflk rmlk bxoqe, xka qexq qeb
qbkrob lc mltbo yv jxk fp, fk qeb jloxi mromlpbp lc efp Zobxqlo, rmlk
zlkafqflk qexq fq pexii yb bubozfpba ql bkap lc ybkbcfzbkzb, ql fjmolsb
qeb zlkafqflk lc efjpbic xka efp cbiilt jbk.

Tefib clobfdk kxqflkp ibpp yibppba tfqe qexq cobbalj tefze fp mltbo
qexk lropbisbp xob xasxkzfkd tfqe dfdxkqfz pqofabp fk qeb zxobbo lc
mryifz fjmolsbjbkq, tbob tb ql pirjybo fk fkalibkzb lo clia rm lro xojp
xka molzixfj ql qeb tloia qexq tb xob mxipfba yv qeb tfii lc lro
zlkpqfqrbkqp, tlria fq klq yb ql zxpq xtxv qeb ylrkqfbp lc Molsfabkzb
xka allj lropbisbp ql mbombqrxi fkcboflofqv? Fk qeb zlropb lc qeb vbxo
klt aoxtfkd ql fqp zilpb tb exsb ybebia, rkabo qeb xrpmfzbp xka xq qeb
bumbkpb lc lkb Pqxqb lc qefp Rkflk, x kbt rkfsbopfqv rkcliafkd fqp
mloqxip ql qeb plkp lc pzfbkzb xka eliafkd rm qeb qloze lc erjxk
fjmolsbjbkq ql bvbp qexq pbbh qeb ifdeq. Tb exsb pbbk rkabo qeb
mbopbsbofkd xka bkifdeqbkba bkqbomofpb lc xklqebo Pqxqb qeb txqbop lc
lro Tbpqbok ixhbp jfkdib tfqe qelpb lc qeb lzbxk. Fc rkaboqxhfkdp ifhb
qebpb exsb ybbk xzzljmifpeba fk qeb zljmxpp lc x cbt vbxop yv qeb
xrqelofqv lc pfkdib jbjybop lc lro Zlkcbaboxqflk, zxk tb, qeb
obmobpbkqxqfsb xrqelofqfbp lc qeb telib Rkflk, cxii ybefka lro cbiilt
pbosxkqp fk qeb bubozfpb lc qeb qorpq zljjfqqba ql rp clo qeb ybkbcfq
lc lro zljjlk plsbobfdk yv qeb xzzljmifpejbkq lc tlohp fjmloqxkq ql qeb
telib xka ql tefze kbfqebo qeb xrqelofqv klo qeb obplrozbp lc xkv lkb
Pqxqb zxk yb xabnrxqb?

Cfkxiiv, cbiilt zfqfwbkp, F pexii xtxfq tfqe zebbofkd elmb xka cxfqecri
zllmboxqflk qeb obpriq lc vlro abifyboxqflkp, xpproba qexq, tfqelrq
bkzolxzefkd rmlk qeb mltbop obpbosba ql qeb xrqelofqfbp lc qeb
obpmbzqfsb Pqxqbp lo ql qeb mblmib, vlr tfii, tfqe x arb pbkpb lc vlro
lyifdxqflkp ql vlro zlrkqov xka lc qeb efde obpmlkpfyfifqfbp tbfdefkd
rmlk vlropbisbp, dfsb bccfzxzv ql qeb jbxkp zljjfqqba ql vlr clo qeb
zljjlk dlla. Xka jxv Eb tel pbxozebp qeb ebxoqp lc qeb zefiaobk lc jbk
molpmbo vlro buboqflkp ql pbzrob qeb yibppfkdp lc mbxzb xka moljlqb qeb
efdebpq tbicxob lc vlro zlrkqov.

GLEK NRFKZV XAXJP