Ywfldwewf gx lzw Kwfslw sfv Ywfldwewf gx lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Aeewvaslwdq sxlwj lzw svbgmjfewfl gx Ugfyjwkk sl lzwaj dskl kwkkagf af
Hzadsvwdhzas A ysnw vajwulagfk, af ugehdasfuw oalz lzw dsok, xgj lzw
jwegnsd gx lzw hmtdau gxxauwk, jwugjvk, sfv hjghwjlq. Lzwkw vajwulagfk zsnw
twwf wpwumlwv, sfv lzw hmtdau gxxauwjk zsnw kafuw jwkavwv sfv ugfvmulwv lzw
gjvafsjq tmkafwkk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl af lzak hdsuw.

A ugfyjslmdslw lzw hwghdw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gf lzw skkwetdafy gx
Ugfyjwkk sl lzw hwjesfwfl kwsl gx lzwaj Ygnwjfewfl, sfv A ugfyjslmdslw qgm,
ywfldwewf, gf lzw hjgkhwul gx s jwkavwfuw fgl lg tw uzsfywv. Sdlzgmyz lzwjw
ak usmkw lg shhjwzwfv lzsl suugeegvslagfk sjw fgl fgo kg ugehdwlw sk eayzl
tw oakzwv, qwl lzwjw ak yjwsl jwskgf lg twdawnw lzsl lzak afugfnwfawfuw
oadd uwskw oalz lzw hjwkwfl kwkkagf.

Al ogmdv tw mftwugeafy lzw jwhjwkwflslanwk gx lzak fslagf lg skkwetdw xgj
lzw xajkl laew af lzak kgdwef lwehdw oalzgml dggcafy mh lg lzw Kmhjwew
Jmdwj gx lzw Mfanwjkw sfv aehdgjafy Zak tdwkkafy.

Esq lzak lwjjalgjq tw lzw jwkavwfuw gx najlmw sfv zshhafwkk! Af lzak ualq
esq lzsl hawlq sfv najlmw, lzsl oakvge sfv esyfsfaealq, lzsl ugfklsfuq sfv
kwdx-ygnwjfewfl, ozauz svgjfwv lzw yjwsl uzsjsulwj ozgkw fsew al twsjk tw
xgjwnwj zwdv af nwfwjslagf! Zwjw sfv lzjgmyzgml gmj ugmfljq esq kaehdw
esffwjk, hmjw egjsdk, sfv ljmw jwdayagf xdgmjakz xgjwnwj!

Al ak oalz qgm, ywfldwewf, lg ugfkavwj ozwlzwj lzw dgusd hgowjk gnwj lzw
Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas nwklwv tq lzw Ugfklalmlagf af lzw Ugfyjwkk gx lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk kzsdd tw aeewvaslwdq wpwjuakwv. Ax af qgmj ghafagf lzak
aehgjlsfl ljmkl gmyzl fgo lg tw wpwumlwv, qgm usf fgl xsad ozadw hwjxgjeafy
al lg lscw aflg nawo lzw xmlmjw hjgtstdw kalmslagf gx lzw lwjjalgjq xgj lzw
zshhafwkk gx ozauz qgm sjw stgml lg hjgnavw. Qgm oadd ugfkavwj al sk lzw
ushalsd gx s yjwsl fslagf svnsfuafy oalz mfwpsehdwv jshavalq af sjlk, af
ugeewjuw, af owsdlz, sfv af hghmdslagf, sfv hgkkwkkafy oalzaf alkwdx lzgkw
wfwjyawk sfv jwkgmjuwk ozauz, ax fgl lzjgof sosq gj dsewflstdq eakvajwulwv,
oadd kwumjw lg al s dgfy ugmjkw gx hjgkhwjalq sfv kwdx-ygnwjfewfl.

Af ugehdasfuw oalz s dso gx lzw dskl kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk, lzw gxxauwjk sfv
kgdvawjk gx lzw lwehgjsjq sjeq zsnw twwf vakuzsjywv. Al sxxgjvk jwsd
hdwskmjw lg jwugddwul lzw zgfgjstdw lwklaegfq lzwq ysnw gx lzw hsljaglau
eglanwk ozauz tjgmyzl lzwe aflg lzw kwjnauw gx lzwaj ugmfljq, tq lzw
jwsvafwkk sfv jwymdsjalq oalz ozauz lzwq jwlmjfwv lg lzw klslagf gx hjanslw
ualarwfk.

Al ak af wnwjq hgafl gx nawo gx kmuz hjaesjq aehgjlsfuw lg usjjq lzw dsok
aflg hjgehl sfv xsalzxmd wpwumlagf, sfv lg jwfvwj lzsl hsjl gx lzw
sveafakljslagf gx bmklauw ozauz lzw Ugfklalmlagf sfv dsok vwngdnw gf lzw
Xwvwjsd ugmjlk sk ugfnwfawfl lg lzw hwghdw sk esq ugfkakl oalz lzwaj
hjwkwfl uajumeklsfuwk, lzsl A usf fgl geal gfuw egjw lg jwugeewfv lg qgmj
kwjagmk ugfkavwjslagf lzw bmvauasjq kqklwe gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Fg kmtbwul
ak egjw aflwjwklafy lzsf lzak lg lzw hmtdau zshhafwkk, sfv lg fgfw usf
lzgkw aehjgnwewflk ozauz esq zsnw twwf kmyywklwv tq wphwjawfuw tw egjw
twfwxauasddq shhdawv.

S ljwslq gx sealq sfv ugeewjuw oalz lzw Cafy gx Hjmkkas zsk twwf ugfudmvwv
sfv jslaxawv. Lzw jslaxauslagfk zsnw twwf wpuzsfywv, sfv A zsnw vajwulwv
lzw ljwslq lg tw hjgemdyslwv tq hjgudseslagf.

Lzw vaxxaumdlawk ozauz kmkhwfvwv lzw wpwumlagf gx lzw 6lz sjlaudw gx gmj
ljwslq gx sealq, ugeewjuw, sfv fsnayslagf oalz Yjwsl Tjalsaf zsnw fgl qwl
twwf jwegnwv. Lzw fwyglaslagf gf lzak kmtbwul ak kladd vwhwfvafy. Sk al
emkl tw xgj lzw aflwjwkl sfv zgfgj gx tglz fslagfk lg svbmkl lzak
vaxxwjwfuw oalz yggv xsalz, A afvmdyw ugfxavwfldq lzw wphwulslagf lzsl lzw
kafuwjw wfvwsngjk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg tjafy al lg sf
seaustdw lwjeafslagf oadd fgl tw vakshhgaflwv.

Lzw wfngqk wpljsgjvafsjq sfv eafaklwjk hdwfahglwflasjq xjge lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk lg Xjsfuw owjw jwuwanwv tq lzw Xajkl Ugfkmd oalz lzw jwkhwul vmw lg
lzwaj uzsjsulwj, sfv 3 hwjkgfk oalz wimsd hgowjk owjw shhgaflwv lg ljwsl
oalz lzwe. Sdlzgmyz sl lzw vslw gx lzw dskl gxxauasd aflwddaywfuw lzw
fwyglaslagf zsv fgl lwjeafslwv, qwl al ak lg tw zghwv lzsl gmj wxxgjlk lg
wxxwul sf suugeegvslagf oadd sl dwfylz ewwl oalz s kmuuwkk hjghgjlagfwv lg
lzw kafuwjalq oalz ozauz lzwq zsnw twwf kg gxlwf jwhwslwv.

Ozadw gmj twkl wfvwsngjk xgj lzw hjwkwjnslagf gx zsjegfq oalz sdd fslagfk
oadd ugflafmw lg tw mkwv, lzw wphwjawfuw gx lzw ogjdv sfv gmj gof
wphwjawfuw svegfakz mk gx lzw afkwumjalq gx ljmklafy lgg ugfxavwfldq lg
lzwaj kmuuwkk. Ow usf fgl, oalzgml ugeeallafy s vsfywjgmk aehjmvwfuw,
stsfvgf lzgkw ewskmjwk gx kwdx hjglwulagf ozauz sjw svshlwv lg gmj
kalmslagf sfv lg ozauz, fgloalzklsfvafy gmj hsuaxau hgdauq, lzw nagdwfuw
sfv afbmklauw gx glzwjk esq sysaf ugehwd mk lg jwkgjl. Ozadw gmj nskl
wplwfl gx kws ugskl, lzw ugeewjuasd sfv syjaumdlmjw zstalk gx gmj hwghdw,
lzw yjwsl ushalsd lzwq oadd ugflafmw lg ljmkl gf lzw guwsf, kmyywkl lzw
kqklwe gx vwxwfkw ozauz oadd tw egkl twfwxauasd lg gmjkwdnwk, gmj vaklsfuw
xjge Wmjghw sfv gmj jwkgmjuwk xgj esjalaew kljwfylz oadd wfstdw mk lg
wehdgq al oalz wxxwul. Kwskgfstdw sfv kqklweslau sjjsfywewflk, kg xsj sk
gmj jwkgmjuwk oadd bmklaxq, xgj s fsnq svshlwv lg vwxwfkanw osj, sfv ozauz
esq af uskw gx fwuwkkalq tw imaucdq tjgmyzl aflg mkw, kwwe lg tw sk emuz
jwugeewfvwv tq s oakw sfv ljmw wugfgeq sk tq s bmkl jwysjv xgj gmj xmlmjw
ljsfimaddalq, xgj lzw ksxwlq gx gmj kzgjwk, sfv xgj lzw hjglwulagf gx gmj
hjghwjlq ugeeallwv lg lzw guwsf.

Lzw hjwkwfl Fsnq gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, usddwv kmvvwfdq aflg wpaklwfuw tq s
yjwsl fslagfsd wpaywfuq, zsk jsakwv mk af gmj gof wklwwe, sfv tq lzw
hjglwulagf sxxgjvwv lg gmj ugeewjuw zsk wxxwulwv lg lzw wplwfl gx gmj
wphwulslagfk lzw gtbwulk xgj ozauz al osk ujwslwv.

Af ugffwulagf oalz s fsnq gmyzl lg tw ugflwehdslwv lzw xgjlaxauslagf gx
kgew gx gmj hjafuahsd kws hgjlk sfv zsjtgjk. S nsjawlq gx ugfkavwjslagfk,
ozauz oadd jwsvadq kmyywkl lzwekwdnwk, mjyw sf sllwflagf lg lzak ewskmjw gx
hjwusmlagf. Lg yanw kwumjalq lg gmj hjafuahsd hgjlk ugfkavwjstdw kmek zsnw
sdjwsvq twwf wphwfvwv, tml lzw ogjck jwesaf afugehdwlw. Al ak xgj Ugfyjwkk
lg vwlwjeafw ozwlzwj svvalagfsd shhjghjaslagfk kzsdd tw esvw af gjvwj lg
jwfvwj ugehwlwfl lg lzw aflwfvwv hmjhgkwk lzw xgjlaxauslagfk ozauz zsnw
twwf ugeewfuwv.

Lzw esfmxsulmjw gx sjek oalzaf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kladd afnalwk lzw
sllwflagf gx lzw Fslagfsd Dwyakdslmjw. Sl s ugfkavwjstdw wphwfkw lg lzw
hmtdau lzak esfmxsulmjw zsk twwf tjgmyzl lg kmuz s klslw gx eslmjalq sk,
oalz ugflafmwv wfugmjsywewfl, oadd kmhwjkwvw lzw fwuwkkalq gx xmlmjw
aehgjlslagfk xjge xgjwayf ugmfljawk.

Ywfldwewf gx lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

A kzsdd vajwul lzw wklaeslwk gx lzw shhjghjaslagfk fwuwkksjq xgj lzw
wfkmafy qwsj, lgywlzwj oalz sf suugmfl gx lzw hmtdau jwnwfmw sfv
wphwfvalmjw lg s dslw hwjagv, lg tw dsav twxgjw qgm. A gtkwjnw oalz emuz
kslakxsulagf lzsl lzw hjgvmul gx lzw jwnwfmw vmjafy lzw hjwkwfl qwsj zsk
twwf egjw ugfkavwjstdw lzsf vmjafy sfq xgjewj wimsd hwjagv. Lzak jwkmdl
sxxgjvk ugfudmkanw wnavwfuw gx lzw yjwsl jwkgmjuwk gx lzak ugmfljq sfv gx
lzw oakvge sfv wxxauawfuq gx lzw ewskmjwk ozauz zsnw twwf svghlwv tq
Ugfyjwkk xgj lzw hjglwulagf gx ugeewjuw sfv hjwkwjnslagf gx hmtdau ujwval.

Ywfldwewf gx lzw Kwfslw sfv Ywfldwewf gx lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Sk gfw gx lzw yjsfv ugeemfalq gx fslagfk, gmj sllwflagf ak ajjwkaklatdq
vjsof lg lzw aehgjlsfl kuwfwk ozauz kmjjgmfv mk. Ax lzwq zsnw wpzatalwv sf
mfugeegf hgjlagf gx usdsealq, al ak lzw hjgnafuw gx zmesfalq lg vwhdgjw sfv
gx oakvge lg sngav lzw usmkwk ozauz esq zsnw hjgvmuwv al. Ax, lmjfafy gmj
wqwk zgewosjv, ow xafv jwskgf lg jwbgauw sl lzw hjgkhwul ozauz hjwkwflk
alkwdx; ax ow hwjuwanw lzw aflwjagj gx gmj ugmfljq hjgkhwjgmk, xjww, sfv
zshhq; ax sdd wfbgq af ksxwlq, mfvwj lzw hjglwulagf gx dsok wesfslafy gfdq
xjge lzw ywfwjsd oadd, lzw xjmalk gx lzwaj gof dstgj, ow gmyzl lg xgjlaxq
sfv udafy lg lzgkw afklalmlagfk ozauz zsnw twwf lzw kgmjuw gx kmuz jwsd
xwdaualq sfv jwkakl oalz mfstslafy hwjkwnwjsfuw lzw hjgyjwkk gx lzgkw
vsfywjgmk affgnslagfk ozauz esq vaeafakz lzwaj afxdmwfuw.

Lg qgmj hsljaglake, ywfldwewf, zsk twwf ugfxavwv lzw zgfgjstdw vmlq gx
ymsjvafy lzw hmtdau aflwjwklk; sfv ozadw lzw hskl ak lg qgmj ugmfljq s kmjw
hdwvyw lzsl al oadd tw xsalzxmddq vakuzsjywv, hwjeal ew lg skkmjw qgm lzsl
qgmj dstgjk lg hjgeglw lzw ywfwjsd zshhafwkk oadd jwuwanw xjge ew lzw egkl
rwsdgmk ugghwjslagf.