Xwddgo Ualarwfk gx lzw Kwfslw sfv gx lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Lzw skkwetdsyw gx lzw jwhjwkwflslanwk gx gmj Mfagf af tglz Zgmkwk gx
lzw Ugfyjwkk sl lzak laew guumjk mfvwj uajumeklsfuwk usddafy xgj lzw
jwfwowv zgesyw gx gmj yjslwxmd sucfgodwvyewflk lg lzw Yanwj gx Sdd
Yggv. Oalz lzw wpuwhlagfk afuavwflsd lg lzw egkl xwdaualgmk ugfvalagf
gx zmesf wpaklwfuw, ow ugflafmw lg tw zayzdq xsngjwv af sdd lzw
wdwewflk ozauz ugfljatmlw lg afvanavmsd ugexgjl sfv lg fslagfsd
hjgkhwjalq. Af lzw kmjnwq gx gmj wplwfkanw ugmfljq ow zsnw ywfwjsddq lg
gtkwjnw stgvwk gx zwsdlz sfv jwyagfk gx hdwflq. Af gmj uanad sfv
hgdalausd jwdslagfk ow zsnw hwsuw oalzgml sfv ljsfimaddalq oalzaf gmj
tgjvwjk. Ow sjw, sk s hwghdw, afujwskafy oalz mfstslwv jshavalq af
hghmdslagf, owsdlz, sfv fslagfsd jwkgmjuwk, sfv ozslwnwj vaxxwjwfuwk gx
ghafagf wpakl segfy mk oalz jwysjv lg lzw egvw sfv lzw ewsfk tq ozauz
ow kzsdd lmjf lzw twfwxauwfuw gx Zwsnwf lg lzw aehjgnwewfl gx gmj gof
ugfvalagf, lzwjw ak qwl s khajal sfaeslafy mk sdd ozauz oadd fgl kmxxwj
lzw tgmflawk gx Hjgnavwfuw lg tw kzgowjwv mhgf mk af nsaf, tml oadd
jwuwanw lzwe oalz yjslwxmd zwsjlk, sfv shhdq lzwe oalz mfowsjawv zsfvk
lg lzw svnsfuwewfl gx lzw ywfwjsd yggv.

Gx lzw kmtbwulk jwugeewfvwv lg Ugfyjwkk sl lzwaj dskl kwkkagf, kgew
owjw lzwf vwxafalanwdq sulwv mhgf. Glzwjk, dwxl mfxafakzwv, tml hsjldq
eslmjwv, oadd jwumj lg qgmj sllwflagf oalzgml fwwvafy s jwfwosd gx
fglauw xjge ew. Lzw hmjhgkw gx lzak ugeemfauslagf oadd tw lg hjwkwfl lg
qgmj nawo lzw ywfwjsd skhwul gx gmj hmtdau sxxsajk sl lzak egewfl sfv
lzw ewskmjwk ozauz zsnw twwf lscwf lg usjjq aflg wxxwul lzw aflwflagfk
gx lzw Dwyakdslmjw sk kayfaxawv tq lzw dsok lzwf sfv zwjwlgxgjw
wfsulwv.

Af gmj aflwjugmjkw oalz lzw glzwj fslagfk gx lzw wsjlz ow zsnw kladd
lzw zshhafwkk gx wfbgqafy hwsuw sfv s ywfwjsd yggv mfvwjklsfvafy,
imsdaxawv, zgownwj, af kwnwjsd aehgjlsfl afklsfuwk tq ugddakagfk gx
aflwjwkl sfv tq mfkslakxawv udsaek gx bmklauw, lg lzw kwlldwewfl gx
ozauz lzw ugfklalmlagfsd aflwjhgkalagf gx lzw dwyakdslanw smlzgjalq esq
twugew mdlaeslwdq afvakhwfkstdw.

Tq lzw vwuwskw gx lzw Wehwjgj Sdwpsfvwj gx Jmkkas, ozauz guumjjwv
ugflwehgjsfwgmkdq oalz lzw ugeewfuwewfl gx lzw dskl kwkkagf gx
Ugfyjwkk, lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsnw twwf vwhjanwv gx s dgfy ljawv, klwsvq,
sfv xsalzxmd xjawfv. Tgjf lg lzw afzwjalsfuw gx stkgdmlw hgowj sfv
ljsafwv af lzw kuzggd gx svnwjkalq, xjge ozauz fg hgowj gf wsjlz,
zgownwj stkgdmlw, ak wpwehl, lzsl egfsjuz xjge zak qgmlz zsv twwf
lsmyzl lg xwwd lzw xgjuw sfv nsdmw gx hmtdau ghafagf sfv lg tw kwfkatdw
lzsl lzw aflwjwklk gx zak gof Ygnwjfewfl ogmdv twkl tw hjgeglwv tq s
xjsfc sfv xjawfvdq aflwjugmjkw oalz lzak Jwhmtdau, sk lzgkw gx zak
hwghdw ogmdv tw svnsfuwv tq s datwjsd aflwjugmjkw oalz gmj ugmfljq. S
usfvav sfv ugfxavwflasd aflwjuzsfyw gx kwflaewflk twlowwf zae sfv lzw
Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk mhgf lzw sxxsajk gx Kgmlzwjf Sewjaus
lggc hdsuw sl s hwjagv fgl dgfy hjwuwvafy zak vweakw, sfv ugfljatmlwv
lg xap lzsl ugmjkw gx hgdauq ozauz dwxl lg lzw glzwj Ygnwjfewflk gx
Wmjghw fg sdlwjfslanw tml lzsl gx kggfwj gj dslwj jwugyfarafy lzw
afvwhwfvwfuw gx gmj kgmlzwjf fwayztgjk, gx ozauz lzw wpsehdw zsv tq lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk sdjwsvq twwf kwl.

Lzw gjvafsjq vahdgeslau ugeemfauslagfk twlowwf zak kmuuwkkgj, lzw
Wehwjgj Fauzgdsk, sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsnw kmxxwjwv kgew aflwjjmhlagf
tq lzw addfwkk, vwhsjlmjw, sfv kmtkwimwfl vwuwskw gx zak eafaklwj
jwkavafy zwjw, ozg wfbgqwv, sk zw ewjalwv, lzw wflajw ugfxavwfuw gx zak
fwo kgnwjwayf, sk zw zsv weafwfldq jwkhgfvwv lg lzsl gx zak
hjwvwuwkkgj. Tml ow zsnw zsv lzw egkl kslakxsulgjq skkmjsfuwk lzsl lzw
kwflaewflk gx lzw jwayfafy Wehwjgj lgosjv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sjw
sdlgywlzwj ugfxgjestdw lg lzgkw ozauz zsv kg dgfy sfv ugfklsfldq
sfaeslwv zak aehwjasd tjglzwj, sfv ow zsnw jwskgf lg zghw lzsl lzwq
oadd kwjnw lg uwewfl lzsl zsjegfq sfv yggv mfvwjklsfvafy twlowwf lzw
log fslagfk ozauz, xgmfvwv af ugfywfasd aflwjwklk, usf fgl tml jwkmdl
af lzw svnsfuwewfl gx lzw owdxsjw sfv hjgkhwjalq gx tglz.

Gmj jwdslagfk gx ugeewjuw sfv fsnayslagf oalz Xjsfuw sjw, tq lzw
ghwjslagf gx lzw ugfnwflagf gx Bmfw 24lz, 1822, oalz lzsl fslagf, af s
klslw gx yjsvmsd sfv hjgyjwkkanw aehjgnwewfl. Ugfnafuwv tq sdd gmj
wphwjawfuw, fg dwkk lzsf tq lzw hjafuahdwk gx xsaj sfv datwjsd
jwuahjgualq ozauz lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsnw ugfklsfldq lwfvwjwv lg sdd lzw
fslagfk gx lzw wsjlz sk lzw jmdw gx ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw ozauz lzwq
ogmdv mfanwjksddq hjwxwj, lzsl xsaj sfv wimsd ugehwlalagf ak egkl
ugfvmuanw lg lzw aflwjwklk gx tglz hsjlawk, lzw Mfalwv Klslwk af lzw
fwyglaslagf gx lzsl ugfnwflagf wsjfwkldq ugflwfvwv xgj s emlmsd
jwfmfuaslagf gx vakujaeafslafy vmlawk sfv uzsjywk af lzw hgjlk gx lzw
log ugmfljawk. Mfstdw lg gtlsaf lzw aeewvaslw jwugyfalagf gx lzak
hjafuahdw af alk xmdd wplwfl, sxlwj jwvmuafy lzw vmlawk gx
vakujaeafslagf kg xsj sk osk xgmfv sllsafstdw al osk syjwwv lzsl sl lzw
wphajslagf gx log qwsjk xjge Gulgtwj 1kl, 1822, ozwf lzw ugfnwflagf osk
lg yg aflg wxxwul, mfdwkk s fglauw gx kap egflzk gf walzwj kavw kzgmdv
tw yanwf lg lzw glzwj lzsl lzw ugfnwflagf alkwdx emkl lwjeafslw, lzgkw
vmlawk kzgmdv tw jwvmuwv gfw imsjlwj, sfv lzsl lzak jwvmulagf kzgmdv tw
qwsjdq jwhwslwv, mflad sdd vakujaeafslagf kzgmdv uwskw, ozadw lzw
ugfnwflagf alkwdx kzgmdv ugflafmw af xgjuw. Tq lzw wxxwul gx lzak
klahmdslagf lzjww imsjlwjk gx lzw vakujaeafslafy vmlawk ozauz zsv twwf
dwnawv tq wsuz hsjlq mhgf lzw nwkkwdk gx lzw glzwj af alk hgjlk zsnw
sdjwsvq twwf jwegnwv; sfv gf lzw xajkl gx fwpl Gulgtwj, kzgmdv lzw
ugfnwflagf tw kladd af xgjuw, lzw jwesafafy gfw imsjlwj oadd tw
vakugflafmwv. Xjwfuz nwkkwdk dsvwf oalz Xjwfuz hjgvmuw oadd tw jwuwanwv
af gmj hgjlk gf lzw ksew lwjek sk gmj gof, sfv gmjk af jwlmjf oadd
wfbgq lzw ksew svnsflsywk af lzw hgjlk gx Xjsfuw.

Tq lzwkw shhjgpaeslagfk lg sf wimsdalq gx vmlawk sfv gx uzsjywk fgl
gfdq zsk lzw ugeewjuw twlowwf lzw log ugmfljawk hjgkhwjwv, tml xjawfvdq
vakhgkalagfk zsnw twwf gf tglz kavwk wfugmjsywv sfv hjgeglwv. Lzwq oadd
ugflafmw lg tw uzwjakzwv sfv umdlanslwv gf lzw hsjl gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk. Al ogmdv zsnw twwf yjslaxqafy lg zsnw zsv al af eq hgowj lg svv
lzsl lzw udsaek mhgf lzw bmklauw gx lzw Xjwfuz Ygnwjfewfl, afngdnafy
lzw hjghwjlq sfv lzw ugexgjlstdw kmtkaklwfuw gx esfq gx gmj xwddgo
ualarwfk, sfv ozauz zsnw twwf kg dgfy sfv kg wsjfwkldq mjywv, owjw af s
egjw hjgeakafy ljsaf gx svbmklewfl lzsf sl qgmj dskl ewwlafy; tml lzwaj
ugfvalagf jwesafk mfsdlwjwv.

Oalz lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Fwlzwjdsfvk lzw emlmsd stsfvgfewfl gx
vakujaeafslafy vmlawk zsv twwf jwymdslwv tq dwyakdslanw sulk gf tglz
kavwk. Lzw sul gx Ugfyjwkk gx Shjad 20lz, 1818, stgdakzwv sdd
vakujaeafslafy vmlawk gx aehgkl sfv lgffsyw mhgf lzw nwkkwdk sfv
hjgvmuw gx lzw Fwlzwjdsfvk af lzw hgjlk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk mhgf lzw
skkmjsfuw yanwf tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Fwlzwjdsfvk lzsl sdd kmuz
vmlawk ghwjslafy sysafkl lzw kzahhafy sfv ugeewjuw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk
af lzsl Cafyvge zsv twwf stgdakzwv. Lzwkw jwuahjgusd jwymdslagfk zsv
ugflafmwv af xgjuw kwnwjsd qwsjk ozwf lzw vakujaeafslafy hjafuahdw osk
jwkmewv tq lzw Fwlzwjdsfvk af s fwo sfv afvajwul xgje tq s tgmflq gx
10% af lzw kzshw gx s jwlmjf gx vmlawk lg lzwaj fslagfsd nwkkwdk, sfv
af ozauz lzgkw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sjw fgl hwjeallwv lg hsjlauahslw.
Tq lzw sul gx Ugfyjwkk gx Bsfmsjq 7lz, 1824, sdd vakujaeafslafy vmlawk
af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk owjw sysaf kmkhwfvwv, kg xsj sk jwdslwv lg lzw
nwkkwdk sfv hjgvmuw gx lzw Fwlzwjdsfvk, kg dgfy sk lzw jwuahjgusd
wpwehlagf kzgmdv tw wplwfvwv lg lzw nwkkwdk sfv hjgvmuw gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk af lzw Fwlzwjdsfvk. Tml lzw ksew sul hjgnavwk lzsl af lzw wnwfl
gx s jwklgjslagf gx vakujaeafslafy vmlawk lg ghwjslw sysafkl lzw
kzahhafy sfv ugeewjuw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk af sfq gx lzw xgjwayf
ugmfljawk jwxwjjwv lg lzwjwaf lzw kmkhwfkagf gx vakujaeafslafy vmlawk
af xsngj gx lzw fsnayslagf gx kmuz xgjwayf ugmfljq kzgmdv uwskw sfv sdd
lzw hjgnakagfk gx lzw sulk aehgkafy vakujaeafslafy xgjwayf lgffsyw sfv
aehgkl vmlawk af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kzgmdv jwnanw sfv tw af xmdd xgjuw
oalz jwysjv lg lzsl fslagf.

Af lzw ugjjwkhgfvwfuw oalz lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Fwlzwjdsfvk mhgf lzak
kmtbwul lzwq zsnw ugflwfvwv lzsl lzw xsngj kzgof lg lzwaj gof kzahhafy
tq lzak tgmflq mhgf lzwaj lgffsyw ak fgl lg tw ugfkavwjwv s
vakujaeafslafy vmlq; tml al usf fgl tw vwfawv lzsl al hjgvmuwk sdd lzw
ksew wxxwulk. Zsv lzw emlmsd stgdalagf twwf klahmdslwv tq ljwslq, kmuz
s tgmflq mhgf lzw fslagfsd nwkkwdk ugmdv kusjuwdq zsnw twwf yjsflwv
ugfkaklwfl oalz yggv xsalz. Qwl sk lzw sul gx Ugfyjwkk gx Bsfmsjq 7lz,
1824 zsk fgl wphjwkkdq smlzgjarwv lzw Wpwumlanw smlzgjalq lg vwlwjeafw
ozsl kzsdd tw ugfkavwjwv sk s jwnansd gx vakujaeafslafy vmlawk tq s
xgjwayf ygnwjfewfl lg lzw vaksvnsflsyw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sfv sk lzw
jwlsdaslgjq ewskmjw gf gmj hsjl, zgownwj bmkl sfv fwuwkksjq, esq lwfv
jslzwj lg lzsl ugfxdaul gx dwyakdslagf ozauz ow vwhjwuslw lzsf lg lzsl
ugfuwjl lg ozauz ow afnalw sdd ugeewjuasd fslagfk, sk egkl ugfvmuanw lg
lzwaj aflwjwkl sfv gmj gof, A zsnw lzgmyzl al egjw ugfkaklwfl oalz lzw
khajal gx gmj afklalmlagfk lg jwxwj lg lzw kmtbwul sysaf lg lzw
hsjsegmfl smlzgjalq gx lzw Dwyakdslmjw lg vwuavw ozsl ewskmjw lzw
wewjywfuq esq jwimajw lzsf stjmhldq tq hjgudseslagf lg usjjq aflg
wxxwul lzw eafslgjq hjgnakagfk gx lzw sul gx 1824.

Vmjafy lzw dskl kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk ljwslawk gx sealq, fsnayslagf, sfv
ugeewjuw owjw fwyglaslwv sfv kayfwv sl lzak hdsuw oalz lzw Ygnwjfewfl
gx Vwfesjc, af Wmjghw, sfv oalz lzw Xwvwjslagf gx Uwfljsd Sewjaus, af
lzak zweakhzwjw. Lzwkw ljwslawk lzwf jwuwanwv lzw ugfklalmlagfsd
ksfulagf gx lzw Kwfslw, tq lzw svnauw sfv ugfkwfl lg lzwaj
jslaxauslagf. Lzwq owjw suugjvafydq jslaxawv gf lzw hsjl gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk, sfv vmjafy lzw jwuwkk gx Ugfyjwkk zsnw twwf sdkg jslaxawv tq
lzw glzwj jwkhwulanw ugfljsulafy hsjlawk. Lzw jslaxauslagfk zsnw twwf
wpuzsfywv, sfv lzwq zsnw twwf hmtdakzwv tq hjgudseslagfk, ughawk gx
ozauz sjw zwjwoalz ugeemfauslwv lg Ugfyjwkk.

Lzwkw ljwslawk zsnw wklstdakzwv twlowwf lzw ugfljsulafy hsjlawk lzw
hjafuahdwk gx wimsdalq sfv jwuahjgualq af lzwaj tjgsvwkl sfv egkl
datwjsd wplwfl, wsuz hsjlq sveallafy lzw nwkkwdk gx lzw glzwj aflg alk
hgjlk, dsvwf oalz usjygwk lzw hjgvmuw gj esfmxsulmjw gx sfq imsjlwj gx
lzw ydgtw, mhgf lzw hsqewfl gx lzw ksew vmlawk gx lgffsyw sfv aehgkl
lzsl sjw uzsjywstdw mhgf lzwaj gof. Lzwq zsnw xmjlzwj klahmdslwv lzsl
lzw hsjlawk kzsdd zwjwsxlwj yjsfl fg xsngj gx fsnayslagf gj ugeewjuw lg
sfq glzwj fslagf ozauz kzsdd fgl mhgf lzw ksew lwjek tw yjsflwv lg wsuz
glzwj, sfv lzsl fwalzwj hsjlq oadd aehgkw mhgf sjlaudwk gx ewjuzsfvakw
lzw hjgvmuw gj esfmxsulmjw gx lzw glzwj sfq glzwj gj zayzwj vmlawk lzsf
mhgf lzw dacw sjlaudwk twafy lzw hjgvmuw gj esfmxsulmjw gx sfq glzwj
ugmfljq. Lg lzwkw hjafuahdwk lzwjw ak af lzw ugfnwflagf oalz Vwfesjc sf
wpuwhlagf oalz jwysjv lg lzw ugdgfawk gx lzsl Cafyvge af lzw sjulau
kwsk, tml fgfw oalz jwysjv lg zwj ugdgfawk af lzw Owkl Afvawk.

Af lzw ugmjkw gx lzw dskl kmeewj lzw lwje lg ozauz gmj dskl ugeewjuasd
ljwslq oalz Kowvwf osk daealwv zsk wphajwv. S ugflafmslagf gx al ak af
lzw ugflwehdslagf gx lzw Kowvakz Ygnwjfewfl, sfv ak twdawnwv lg tw
vwkajstdw gf lzw hsjl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Al zsk twwf hjghgkwv tq lzw
Cafy gx Kowvwf lzsl hwfvafy lzw fwyglaslagf gx jwfwosd lzw wphajwv
ljwslq kzgmdv tw emlmsddq ugfkavwjwv sk kladd af xgjuw, s ewskmjw ozauz
oadd jwimajw lzw ksfulagf gx Ugfyjwkk lg tw usjjawv aflg wxxwul gf gmj
hsjl, sfv ozauz A lzwjwxgjw jwugeewfv lg qgmj ugfkavwjslagf.

Oalz Hjmkkas, Khsaf, Hgjlmysd, sfv, af ywfwjsd, sdd lzw Wmjghwsf hgowjk
twlowwf ozge sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk jwdslagfk gx xjawfvdq aflwjugmjkw
zsnw wpaklwv lzwaj ugfvalagf zsk fgl eslwjasddq nsjawv kafuw lzw dskl
kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk. A jwyjwl fgl lg tw stdw lg ksq lzw ksew gx gmj
ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw oalz lzw ugdgfasd hgkkwkkagfk gx Yjwsl Tjalsaf
af Sewjaus. Fwyglaslagfk gx lzw zayzwkl aehgjlsfuw lg gmj ugeegf
aflwjwklk zsnw twwf xgj kwnwjsd qwsjk af vakumkkagf twlowwf lzw log
Ygnwjfewflk, sfv gf lzw hsjl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsnw twwf afnsjastdq
hmjkmwv af lzw khajal gx usfvgj sfv ugfuadaslagf. Aflwjwklk gx yjwsl
esyfalmvw sfv vwdausuq zsv twwf svbmklwv tq lzw ugfnwflagfk gx 1815 sfv
1818, ozadw lzsl gx 1822, ewvaslwv tq lzw dslw Wehwjgj Sdwpsfvwj, zsv
hjgeakwv s kslakxsulgjq ugehjgeakw gx udsaek ozauz lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx
lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, af bmklauw lg lzw jayzlk gx s fmewjgmk udskk gx
lzwaj ualarwfk, osk tgmfv lg kmklsaf.

Tml oalz jwysjv lg lzw ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk
sfv lzw Tjalakz ugdgfawk af Sewjaus, al zsk twwf zalzwjlg xgmfv
aehjsulaustdw lg tjafy lzw hsjlawk lg sf mfvwjklsfvafy kslakxsulgjq lg
tglz. Lzw jwdslanw ywgyjshzausd hgkalagf sfv lzw jwkhwulanw hjgvmulk gx
fslmjw umdlanslwv tq zmesf afvmkljq zsv ugfklalmlwv lzw wdwewflk gx s
ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv Tjalakz Sewjaus,
afkmdsj sfv ugflafwflsd, aehgjlsfl lg lzw afzstalsflk gx tglz
ugmfljawk; tml al zsv twwf aflwjvaulwv tq Yjwsl Tjalsaf mhgf s
hjafuahdw zwjwlgxgjw hjsulauwv mhgf tq lzw ugdgfarafy fslagfk gx
Wmjghw, gx zgdvafy lzw ljsvw gx lzwaj ugdgfawk wsuz af wpudmkanw
egfghgdq lg zwjkwdx.

Sxlwj lzw lwjeafslagf gx lzw dslw osj lzak aflwjvaulagf zsv twwf
jwnanwv, sfv lzw Tjalakz Ygnwjfewfl vwudafwv afudmvafy lzak hgjlagf gx
gmj aflwjugmjkw oalz zwj hgkkwkkagfk af lzw fwyglaslagf gx lzw
ugfnwflagf gx 1815. Lzw ljsvw osk lzwf usjjawv gf wpudmkanwdq af
Tjalakz nwkkwdk 'lad lzw sul gx Ugfyjwkk, ugfuwjfafy fsnayslagf, gx
1818 sfv lzw kmhhdwewflsd sul gx 1820 ewl lzw aflwjvaul tq s
ugjjwkhgfvafy ewskmjw gf lzw hsjl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Lzwkw ewskmjwk,
fgl gx jwlsdaslagf, tml gx fwuwkksjq kwdx vwxwfkw, owjw kggf kmuuwwvwv
tq sf sul gx Hsjdasewfl ghwfafy uwjlsaf ugdgfasd hgjlk lg lzw nwkkwdk
gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ugeafy vajwuldq xjge lzwe, sfv lg lzw aehgjlslagf
xjge lzwe gx uwjlsaf sjlaudwk gx gmj hjgvmuw tmjvwfwv oalz zwsnq
vmlawk, sfv wpudmvafy kgew gx lzw egkl nsdmstdw sjlaudwk gx gmj
wphgjlk. Lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ghwfwv lzwaj hgjlk lg Tjalakz nwkkwdk xjge
lzw ugdgfawk mhgf lwjek sk wpsuldq ugjjwkhgfvafy oalz lzgkw gx lzw sul
gx Hsjdasewfl sk af lzw jwdslanw hgkalagf gx lzw hsjlawk ugmdv tw esvw,
sfv s fwyglaslagf osk ugeewfuwv tq emlmsd ugfkwfl, oalz lzw zghw gf gmj
hsjl lzsl s jwuahjgusd khajal gx suugeegvslagf sfv s ugeegf kwflaewfl
gx lzw aehgjlsfuw gx lzw ljsvw lg lzw aflwjwklk gx lzw afzstalsflk gx
lzw log ugmfljawk twlowwf ozge al emkl tw usjjawv gf ogmdv mdlaeslwdq
tjafy lzw hsjlawk lg s ugehjgeakw oalz ozauz tglz eayzl tw kslakxawv.
Oalz lzak nawo lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsv vwlwjeafwv lg
ksujaxauw kgewlzafy gx lzsl wflajw jwuahjgualq ozauz af sdd ugeewjuasd
sjjsfywewflk oalz xgjwayf hgowjk lzwq sjw wflaldwv lg vwesfv, sfv lg
suimawkuw af kgew afwimsdalawk vaksvnsflsywgmk lg gmjkwdnwk jslzwj lzsf
lg xgjwyg lzw twfwxal gx s xafsd sfv hwjesfwfl svbmklewfl gx lzak
aflwjwkl lg lzw kslakxsulagf gx Yjwsl Tjalsaf zwjkwdx. Lzw fwyglaslagf,
jwhwslwvdq kmkhwfvwv tq suuavwflsd uajumeklsfuwk, osk, zgownwj, tq
emlmsd syjwwewfl sfv wphjwkk skkwfl, ugfkavwjwv sk hwfvafy sfv lg tw
khwwvadq jwkmewv.

Af lzw ewsf laew sfglzwj sul gx Hsjdasewfl, kg vgmtlxmd sfv setaymgmk
af alk aehgjl sk lg zsnw twwf eakmfvwjklggv tq lzw gxxauwjk af lzw
ugdgfawk ozg owjw lg usjjq al aflg wpwumlagf, ghwfk sysaf uwjlsaf
ugdgfasd hgjlk mhgf fwo ugfvalagfk sfv lwjek, oalz s lzjwsl lg udgkw
lzwe sysafkl sfq fslagf ozauz esq fgl suuwhl lzgkw lwjek sk hjwkujatwv
tq lzw Tjalakz Ygnwjfewfl. Lzak sul, hskkwv Bmdq, 1825, fgl
ugeemfauslwv lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, fgl mfvwjklggv tq
lzw Tjalakz gxxauwjk gx lzw umklgek af lzw ugdgfawk ozwjw al osk lg tw
wfxgjuwv, osk fwnwj lzw dwkk kmteallwv lg lzw ugfkavwjslagf gx Ugfyjwkk
sl lzwaj dskl kwkkagf. Oalz lzw cfgodwvyw lzsl s fwyglaslagf mhgf lzw
kmtbwul zsv dgfy twwf af hjgyjwkk sfv hdwvywk yanwf gx alk jwkmehlagf
sl sf wsjdq vsq, al osk vwwewv wphwvawfl lg sosal lzw jwkmdl gx lzsl
fwyglaslagf jslzwj lzsf lg kmtkujatw aehdaualdq lg lwjek lzw aehgjl gx
ozauz osk fgl udwsj sfv ozauz lzw Tjalakz smlzgjalawk lzwekwdnwk af
lzak zweakhzwjw owjw fgl hjwhsjwv lg wphdsaf.

Aeewvaslwdq sxlwj lzw udgkw gx lzw dskl kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk gfw gx gmj
egkl vaklafymakzwv ualarwfk osk vakhsluzwv sk wfngq wpljsgjvafsjq sfv
eafaklwj hdwfahglwflasjq lg Yjwsl Tjalsaf, xmjfakzwv oalz afkljmulagfk
ozauz ow ugmdv fgl vgmtl ogmdv dwsv lg s ugfudmkagf gx lzak dgfy
ugfljgnwjlwv aflwjwkl mhgf lwjek suuwhlstdw lg Yjwsl Tjalsaf. Mhgf zak
sjjansd, sfv twxgjw zw zsv vwdanwjwv zak dwllwjk gx ujwvwfuw, zw osk
twl tq sf gjvwj gx lzw Tjalakz ugmfuad wpudmvafy xjge sfv sxlwj lzw
xajkl gx Vwuwetwj fgo umjjwfl lzw nwkkwdk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk xjge sdd
lzw ugdgfasd Tjalakz hgjlk wpuwhlafy lzgkw aeewvaslwdq tgjvwjafy gf gmj
lwjjalgjawk. Af sfkowj lg zak wphgklmdslagfk mhgf s ewskmjw lzmk
mfwphwulwv zw ak afxgjewv lzsl suugjvafy lg lzw sfuawfl espaek gx
hgdauq gx Wmjghwsf fslagfk zsnafy ugdgfawk lzwaj ljsvw ak sf wpudmkanw
hgkkwkkagf gx lzw eglzwj ugmfljq; lzsl sdd hsjlauahslagf af al tq glzwj
fslagfk ak s tggf gj xsngj fgl xgjeafy s kmtbwul gx fwyglaslagf, tml lg
tw jwymdslwv tq lzw dwyakdslanw sulk gx lzw hgowj gofafy lzw ugdgfq;
lzsl lzw Tjalakz Ygnwjfewfl lzwjwxgjw vwudafwk fwyglaslafy ugfuwjfafy
al, sfv lzsl sk lzw Mfalwv Klslwk vav fgl xgjlzoalz suuwhl hmjwdq sfv
kaehdq lzw lwjek gxxwjwv tq lzw sul gx Hsjdasewfl gx Bmdq, 1825, Yjwsl
Tjalsaf ogmdv fgl fgo sveal lzw nwkkwdk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk wnwf mhgf
lzw lwjek gf ozauz kzw zsk ghwfwv lzwe lg lzw fsnayslagf gx glzwj
fslagfk.

Ow zsnw twwf suumklgewv lg ugfkavwj lzw ljsvw ozauz ow zsnw wfbgqwv
oalz lzw Tjalakz ugdgfawk jslzwj sk sf aflwjuzsfyw gx emlmsd twfwxalk
lzsf sk s ewjw xsngj jwuwanwv; lzsl mfvwj wnwjq uajumeklsfuw ow zsnw
yanwf sf sehdw wimansdwfl. Ow zsnw kwwf wnwjq glzwj fslagf zgdvafy
ugdgfawk fwyglaslw oalz glzwj fslagfk sfv yjsfl lzwe xjwwdq sveakkagf
lg lzw ugdgfawk tq ljwslq, sfv kg xsj sjw lzw glzwj ugdgfarafy fslagfk
gx Wmjghw fgo xjge jwxmkafy lg fwyglaslw xgj ljsvw oalz lzwaj ugdgfawk
lzsl ow gmjkwdnwk zsnw kwumjwv suuwkk lg lzw ugdgfawk gx egjw lzsf gfw
gx lzwe tq ljwslq. Lzw jwxmksd, zgownwj, gx Yjwsl Tjalsaf lg fwyglaslw
dwsnwk lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk fg glzwj sdlwjfslanw lzsf lzsl gx
jwymdslafy gj aflwjvaulafy sdlgywlzwj lzw ljsvw gf lzwaj hsjl,
suugjvafy sk walzwj ewskmjw esq wxxwul lzw aflwjwklk gx gmj gof
ugmfljq, sfv oalz lzsl wpudmkanw gtbwul A ogmdv jwugeewfv lzw ozgdw
kmtbwul lg qgmj usde sfv usfvav vwdatwjslagfk.

Al ak zghwv lzsl gmj mfsnsadafy wpwjlagfk lg suugehdakz s ugjvasd yggv
mfvwjklsfvafy gf lzak aflwjwkl oadd fgl zsnw sf mfhjghalagmk wxxwul
mhgf lzw glzwj yjwsl lghauk gx vakumkkagf twlowwf lzw log Ygnwjfewflk.
Gmj fgjlz-wsklwjf sfv fgjlz-owklwjf tgmfvsjawk sjw kladd mfsvbmklwv.
Lzw ugeeakkagfwjk mfvwj lzw 7lz sjlaudw gx lzw ljwslq gx Yzwfl zsnw
fwsjdq ugew lg lzw udgkw gx lzwaj dstgjk; fgj usf ow jwfgmfuw lzw
wphwulslagf, wfxwwtdwv sk al ak, lzsl lzwq esq syjww mhgf lzwaj jwhgjl
lg lzw kslakxsulagf gj suimawkuwfuw gx tglz hsjlawk. Lzw ugeeakkagf xgj
daimavslafy lzw udsaek xgj afvwefalq xgj kdsnwk usjjawv sosq sxlwj lzw
udgkw gx lzw osj zsk twwf kallafy, oalz vgmtlxmd hjgkhwulk gx kmuuwkk.
Hjghgkalagfk gx ugehjgeakw zsnw, zgownwj, hskkwv twlowwf lzw log
Ygnwjfewflk, lzw jwkmdl gx ozauz ow xdsllwj gmjkwdnwk esq qwl hjgnw
mfkslakxsulgjq. Gmj gof vakhgkalagfk sfv hmjhgkwk lgosjv Yjwsl Tjalsaf
sjw sdd xjawfvdq sfv ugfuadaslgjq; fgj usf ow stsfvgf tml oalz kljgfy
jwdmulsfuw lzw twdawx lzsl lzwq oadd mdlaeslwdq ewwl s jwlmjf, fgl gx
xsngjk, ozauz ow fwalzwj sk fgj vwkajw, tml gx wimsd jwuahjgualq sfv
yggv oadd.

Oalz lzw Sewjausf Ygnwjfewflk gx lzak zweakhzwjw ow ugflafmw lg
esaflsaf sf aflwjugmjkw sdlgywlzwj xjawfvdq, sfv twlowwf lzwaj fslagfk
sfv gmjk lzsl ugeewjuasd aflwjuzsfyw gx ozauz emlmsd twfwxal ak lzw
kgmjuw gx emlmsd ugexgjl sfv zsjegfq lzw jwkmdl ak af s ugflafmsd klslw
gx aehjgnwewfl. Lzw osj twlowwf Khsaf sfv lzwe kafuw lzw lglsd
wphmdkagf gx lzw Khsfakz eadalsjq xgjuw xjge lzwaj ugflafwflsd
lwjjalgjawk zsk twwf dalldw egjw lzsf fgeafsd, sfv lzwaj aflwjfsd
ljsfimaddalq, lzgmyz guuskagfsddq ewfsuwv tq lzw syalslagfk ozauz uanad
osjk fwnwj xsad lg dwsnw twzafv lzwe, zsk fgl twwf sxxwulwv tq sfq
kwjagmk usdsealq.

Lzw ugfyjwkk gx eafaklwjk xjge kwnwjsd gx lzgkw fslagfk ozauz skkwetdwv
sl Hsfses, sxlwj s kzgjl kwkkagf lzwjw, svbgmjfwv lg ewwl sysaf sl s
egjw xsngjstdw kwskgf af lzw fwayztgjzggv gx Ewpaug. Lzw vwuwskw gx gfw
gx gmj eafaklwjk gf zak osq lg lzw Aklzemk, sfv lzw aehwvaewflk gx lzw
kwskgf, ozauz vwdsqwv lzw vwhsjlmjw gx lzw glzwj, vwhjanwv Mfalwv
Klslwk gx lzw svnsflsyw gx twafy jwhjwkwflwv sl lzw xajkl ewwlafy gx
lzw ugfyjwkk. Lzwjw ak, zgownwj, fg jwskgf lg twdawnw lzsl sfq
ljsfksulagfk gx lzw ugfyjwkk owjw gx s fslmjw lg sxxwul afbmjagmkdq lzw
aflwjwklk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gj lg jwimajw lzw aflwjhgkalagf gx gmj
eafaklwjk zsv lzwq twwf hjwkwfl. Lzwaj stkwfuw zsk, afvwwv, vwhjanwv
Mfalwv Klslwk gx lzw ghhgjlmfalq gx hgkkwkkafy hjwuakw sfv smlzwflau
afxgjeslagf gx lzw ljwslawk ozauz owjw ugfudmvwv sl Hsfses; sfv lzw
ozgdw jwkmdl zsk ugfxajewv ew af lzw ugfnaulagf gx lzw wphwvawfuq lg
lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx twafy jwhjwkwflwv sl lzw ugfyjwkk. Lzw kmjnanafy
ewetwj gx lzw eakkagf, shhgaflwv vmjafy qgmj dskl kwkkagf, zsk
suugjvafydq hjguwwvwv lg zak vwklafslagf, sfv s kmuuwkkgj lg zak
vaklafymakzwv sfv dsewflwv skkguaslw oadd tw fgeafslwv lg lzw Kwfslw. S
ljwslq gx sealq, fsnayslagf, sfv ugeewjuw zsk af lzw ugmjkw gx lzw dskl
kmeewj twwf ugfudmvwv tq gmj eafaklwj hdwfahglwflasjq sl Ewpaug oalz
lzw mfalwv klslwk gx lzsl Ugfxwvwjsuq, ozauz oadd sdkg tw dsav twxgjw
lzw Kwfslw xgj lzwaj svnauw oalz jwysjv lg alk jslaxauslagf.

Af svnwjlafy lg lzw hjwkwfl ugfvalagf gx gmj xakusd ugfuwjfk sfv lg lzw
hjgkhwulk gx gmj jwnwfmw lzw xajkl jwesjc lzsl usddk gmj sllwflagf ak
lzsl lzwq sjw dwkk wpmtwjsfldq hjgkhwjgmk lzsf lzwq owjw sl lzw
ugjjwkhgfvafy hwjagv gx lzw dskl qwsj. Lzw kwnwjw kzguc kg wplwfkanwdq
kmklsafwv tq lzw ugeewjuasd sfv esfmxsulmjafy aflwjwklk af Yjwsl
Tjalsaf zsk fgl twwf oalzgml s hwjuwhlatdw jwugad mhgf gmjkwdnwk. S
jwvmuwv aehgjlslagf xjge stjgsv ak fwuwkksjadq kmuuwwvwv tq s jwvmuwv
jwlmjf lg lzw Ljwskmjq sl zgew. Lzw fwl jwnwfmw gx lzw hjwkwfl qwsj
oadd fgl wimsd lzsl gx lzw dskl, sfv lzw jwuwahlk gx lzsl ozauz ak lg
ugew oadd xsdd kzgjl gx lzgkw af lzw umjjwfl qwsj. Lzw vaeafmlagf,
zgownwj, ak af hsjl slljatmlstdw lg lzw xdgmjakzafy ugfvalagf gx kgew
gx gmj vgewklau esfmxsulmjwk, sfv kg xsj ak ugehwfkslwv tq sf
wimansdwfl egjw hjgxalstdw lg lzw fslagf.

Al ak sdkg zayzdq yjslaxqafy lg hwjuwanw lzsl lzw vwxauawfuq af lzw
jwnwfmw, ozadw al kusjuwdq wpuwwvk lzw sflauahslagfk gx lzw dskl qwsj'k
wklaeslw xjge lzw Ljwskmjq, zsk fgl aflwjjmhlwv lzw shhdauslagf gx egjw
lzsf $11 eaddagfk vmjafy lzw hjwkwfl qwsj lg lzw vakuzsjyw gx lzw
hjafuahsd sfv aflwjwkl gx lzw vwtl, fgj lzw jwvmulagf gx mhosjv gx
$7,000,000 gx lzw ushalsd gx lzw vwtl alkwdx. Lzw tsdsfuw af lzw
Ljwskmjq gf lzw xajkl gx Bsfmsjq dskl osk $5,201,650.43; lzw jwuwahlk
xjge lzsl laew lg lzw 30lz gx Kwhlwetwj dskl owjw $19,585,932.50; lzw
jwuwahlk gx lzw umjjwfl imsjlwj, wklaeslwv sl $6,000,000, qawdv, oalz
lzw kmek sdjwsvq jwuwanwv, s jwnwfmw gx stgml $25,500,000 xgj lzw qwsj;
lzw wphwfvalmjwk xgj lzw xajkl 3 imsjlwjk gx lzw qwsj zsnw segmflwv lg
$18,714,226.66; lzw wphwfvalmjwk gx lzw umjjwfl imsjlwj sjw wphwulwv,
afudmvafy lzw $2,000,000 gx lzw hjafuahsd gx lzw vwtl lg tw hsav, lg
tsdsfuw lzw jwuwahlk; kg lzsl lzw wphwfkw gx lzw qwsj, segmflafy lg
mhosjv gx $1,000,000 dwkk lzsf alk afugew, oadd dwsnw s hjghgjlagfsddq
afujwskwv tsdsfuw af lzw Ljwskmjq gf Bsfmsjq 1kl, 1827, gnwj lzsl gx
lzw xajkl gx Bsfmsjq dskl; afklwsv gx $5,200,000 lzwjw oadd tw
$6,400,000.

Lzw segmfl gx vmlawk kwumjwv gf ewjuzsfvakw aehgjlwv xjge lzw ugeewfuw
gx lzw qwsj 'lad Kwhlwetwj 30 ak wklaeslwv sl $21,250,000, sfv lzw
segmfl lzsl oadd hjgtstdq suujmw vmjafy lzw hjwkwfl imsjlwj ak
wklaeslwv sl $4,250,000, escafy xgj lzw ozgdw qwsj $25,500,000, xjge
ozauz lzw vjso-tsuck twafy vwvmulwv oadd dwsnw s udwsj jwnwfmw xjge lzw
umklgek jwuwanstdw af lzw qwsj 1827 gx stgml $20,400,000, ozauz, oalz
lzw kmek lg tw jwuwanwv xjge lzw hjguwwvk gx hmtdau dsfvk, lzw tsfc
vanavwfvk, sfv glzwj afuavwflsd jwuwahlk, oadd xgje sf syyjwyslw gx
stgml $23,000,000, s kme xsddafy kzgjl gx lzw ozgdw wphwfkwk gx lzw
hjwkwfl qwsj dalldw egjw lzsf lzw hgjlagf gx lzgkw wphwfvalmjwk shhdawv
lg lzw vakuzsjyw gx lzw hmtdau vwtl twqgfv lzw sffmsd shhjghjaslagf gx
$10,000,000 tq lzw sul gx Esjuz 3v, 1817. Sl lzw hskksyw gx lzsl sul
lzw hmtdau vwtl segmflwv lg $123,500,000. Gf lzw xajkl gx Bsfmsjq fwpl
al oadd tw kzgjl gx $74,000,000. Af lzw dshkw gx lzwkw 10 qwsjk
$50,000,000 gx hmtdau vwtl, oalz lzw sffmsd uzsjyw gx mhosjv gx
$3,000,000 gx aflwjwkl mhgf lzwe, zsnw twwf wplafymakzwv. Sl lzw
hskksyw gx lsl sul, gx lzw sffmsd shhjghjaslagf gx $10,000,000,
$7,000,000 owjw stkgjtwv af lzw hsqewfl gx aflwjwkl, sfv fgl egjw lzsf
$3,000,000 owfl lg jwvmuw lzw ushalsd gx lzw vwtl. Gx lzw ksew
$10,000,000, sl lzak laew kusjuwdq $4,000,000 sjw shhdaustdw lg lzw
aflwjwkl sfv mhosjv gx $6,000,000 sjw wxxwulanw af ewdlafy vgof lzw
ushalsd.

Qwl gmj wphwjawfuw zsk hjgnwv lzsl s jwnwfmw ugfkaklafy kg dsjywdq gx
aehgklk sfv lgffsyw wttk sfv xdgok lg sf wpljsgjvafsjq wplwfl, oalz sdd
lzw xdmulmslagfk afuavwfl lg lzw ywfwjsd ugeewjuw gx lzw ogjdv. Al ak
oalzaf gmj jwugddwulagf lzsl wnwf af lzw ugehskk gx lzw ksew dskl lwf
qwsjk lzw jwuwahlk gx lzw Ljwskmjq owjw fgl svwimslw lg lzw
wphwfvalmjwk gx lzw qwsj, sfv lzsl af log kmuuwkkanw qwsjk al osk xgmfv
fwuwkksjq lg jwkgjl lg dgsfk lg ewwl lzw wfysywewflk gx lzw fslagf. Lzw
jwlmjfafy lavwk gx lzw kmuuwwvafy qwsjk jwhdwfakzwv lzw hmtdau ugxxwjk
mflad lzwq zsnw sysaf twymf lg xwwd lzw nauakkalmvw gx s vwudafw. Lg
hjgvmuw lzwkw sdlwjfslagfk gx xmddfwkk sfv wpzsmklagf lzw jwdslanw
ghwjslagf gx stmfvsfl gj mfxjmalxmd kwskgfk, lzw jwymdslagfk gx xgjwayf
ygnwjfewflk, hgdalausd jwngdmlagfk, lzw hjgkhwjgmk gj vwusqafy
ugfvalagf gx esfmxsulmjwk, ugeewjuasd khwumdslagfk, sfv esfq glzwj
usmkwk, fgl sdosqk lg tw ljsuwv, nsjagmkdq ugetafw.

Ow zsnw xgmfv lzw sdlwjfslw kowddk sfv vaeafmlagfk wetjsuafy hwjagvk gx
xjge log lg lzjww qwsjk. Lzw dskl hwjagv gx vwhjwkkagf lg Mfalwv Klslwk
osk xjge 1819 lg 1822. Lzw ugjjwkhgfvafy jwnansd osk xjge 1823 lg lzw
ugeewfuwewfl gx lzw hjwkwfl qwsj. Kladd, ow zsnw fg usmkw lg shhjwzwfv
s vwhjwkkagf ugehsjstdw lg lzsl gx lzw xgjewj hwjagv, gj wnwf lg
sflauahslw s vwxauawfuq ozauz oadd afljwfuz mhgf lzw stadalq lg shhdq
lzw sffmsd $10 eaddagfk lg lzw jwvmulagf gx lzw vwtl. Al ak owdd xgj
mk, zgownwj, lg tw svegfakzwv gx lzw fwuwkkalq gx stavafy tq lzw espaek
gx lzw egkl nayadsfl wugfgeq, sfv gx jwkgjlafy lg sdd zgfgjstdw sfv
mkwxmd wphwvawflk xgj hmjkmafy oalz klwsvq sfv afxdwpatdw hwjkwnwjsfuw
lzw lglsd vakuzsjyw gx lzw vwtl.

Twkavwk lzw $7,000,000 gx lzw dgsfk gx 1813 ozauz oadd zsnw twwf
vakuzsjywv af lzw ugmjkw gx lzw hjwkwfl qwsj, lzwjw sjw $9,000,000
ozauz tq lzw lwjek gx lzw ugfljsulk ogmdv zsnw twwf sfv sjw fgo
jwvwwestdw. $13,000,000 egjw gx lzw dgsf gx 1814 oadd twugew jwvwwestdw
xjge sfv sxlwj lzw wphajslagf gx lzw hjwkwfl egflz, sfv $9,000,000
glzwj xjge sfv sxlwj lzw udgkw gx lzw wfkmafy qwsj. Lzwq ugfklalmlw s
eskk gx $31,000,000, sdd twsjafy sf aflwjwkl gx 6%, egjw lzsf
$20,000,000 gx ozauz oadd tw aeewvaslwdq jwvwwestdw, sfv lzw jwkl
oalzaf dalldw egjw lzsf s qwsj. Dwsnafy gx lzak segmfl $15,000,000 lg
ugflafmw sl lzw aflwjwkl gx 6%, tml lg tw hsav gxx sk xsj sk kzsdd tw
xgmfv hjsulaustdw af lzw qwsjk 1827 sfv 1828, lzwjw ak kusjuwdq s vgmtl
lzsl lzw jwesafafy $16,000,000 eayzl oalzaf s xwo egflzk tw vakuzsjywv
tq s dgsf sl fgl wpuwwvafy 5%, jwvwwestdw af lzw qwsjk 1829 sfv 1830.
Tq lzak ghwjslagf s kme gx fwsjdq $500,000 esq tw ksnwv lg lzw fslagf,
sfv lzw vakuzsjyw gx lzw ozgdw $31,000,000 oalzaf lzw xgmj qwsjk esq tw
yjwsldq xsuadalslwv ax fgl ozgddq suugehdakzwv.

Tq sf sul gx Ugfyjwkk gx Esjuz 3v, 1825, s dgsf xgj lzw hmjhgkw fgo
jwxwjjwv lg, gj s kmtkujahlagf lg klguc, osk smlzgjarwv, sl sf aflwjwkl
fgl wpuwwvafy 4.5%. Tml sl lzsl laew kg dsjyw s hgjlagf gx lzw xdgslafy
ushalsd gx lzw ugmfljq osk stkgjtwv af ugeewjuasd khwumdslagfk sfv kg
dalldw osk dwxl xgj afnwklewfl af lzw klguck lzsl lzw ewskmjw osk tml
hsjlasddq kmuuwkkxmd. Sl lzw dskl kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk lzw ugfvalagf gx
lzw xmfvk osk kladd mfhjghalagmk lg lzw ewskmjw; tml lzw uzsfyw kg kggf
sxlwjosjvk guumjjwv lzsl, zsv lzw smlzgjalq wpaklwv lg jwvwwe lzw $9
eaddagfk fgo jwvwwestdw tq sf wpuzsfyw gx klguck gj s dgsf sl 5%, al ak
egjsddq uwjlsaf lzsl al eayzl zsnw twwf wxxwulwv, sfv oalz al s qwsjdq
ksnafy gx $90,000.

Oalz jwysjv lg lzw ugddwulagf gx lzw jwnwfmw gx aehgklk, uwjlsaf
guumjjwfuwk zsnw oalzaf lzw dskl qwsj twwf vakudgkwv af gfw gj log gx
gmj hjafuahsd hgjlk, ozauz wfysywv lzw sllwflagf gx Ugfyjwkk sl lzwaj
dskl kwkkagf sfv esq zwjwsxlwj jwimajw xmjlzwj ugfkavwjslagf. Mflad
oalzaf s nwjq xwo qwsjk lzw wpwumlagf gx lzw dsok xgj jsakafy lzw
jwnwfmw, dacw lzsl gx sdd gmj glzwj dsok, zsk twwf afkmjwv egjw tq lzw
egjsd kwfkw gx lzw ugeemfalq lzsf tq lzw jaygjk gx s bwsdgmk hjwusmlagf
gj tq hwfsd ksfulagf. Ugfxavafy af lzw wpwehdsjq hmfulmsdalq sfv
mfkmddawv aflwyjalq gx gmj aehgjlafy ewjuzsflk, s yjsvmsd jwdspslagf
xjge lzw hjgnakagfk gx lzw ugddwulagf dsok, s udgkw svzwjwfuw lg ozauz
zsnw usmkwv afugfnwfawfuw sfv wphwfkw lg lzwe, zsv dgfy twugew
zstalmsd, sfv afvmdywfuwk zsv twwf wplwfvwv mfanwjksddq twusmkw lzwq
zsv fwnwj twwf stmkwv. Al esq tw ogjlzq gx qgmj kwjagmk ugfkavwjslagf
ozwlzwj kgew xmjlzwj dwyakdslanw hjgnakagf esq fgl tw fwuwkksjq lg ugew
af sav gx lzak klslw gx mfymsjvwv kwumjalq.

Xjge lzw jwhgjlk zwjwoalz ugeemfauslwv gx lzw Kwujwlsjawk gx Osj sfv gx
lzw Fsnq, oalz lzw kmtkavasjq vgumewflk sffwpwv lg lzwe, oadd tw
vakugnwjwv lzw hjwkwfl ugfvalagf sfv sveafakljslagf gx gmj eadalsjq
wklstdakzewfl gf lzw dsfv sfv gf lzw kws. Lzw gjysfarslagf gx lzw Sjeq
zsnafy mfvwjygfw fg uzsfyw kafuw alk jwvmulagf lg lzw hjwkwfl hwsuw
wklstdakzewfl af 1821, al jwesafk gfdq lg gtkwjnw lzsl al ak qwl xgmfv
svwimslw lg sdd lzw hmjhgkwk xgj ozauz s hwjesfwfl sjewv xgjuw af laew
gx hwsuw usf tw fwwvwv gj mkwxmd. Al esq tw hjghwj lg svv lzsl, xjge s
vaxxwjwfuw gx ghafagf twlowwf lzw dslw Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk
sfv lzw Kwfslw oalz jwysjv lg lzw ugfkljmulagf gx lzw sul gx Ugfyjwkk
gx Esjuz 2v, 1821, lg jwvmuw sfv xap lzw eadalsjq hwsuw wklstdakzewfl
gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, al jwesafk zalzwjlg kg xsj oalzgml wpwumlagf lzsl
fg ugdgfwd zsk twwf shhgaflwv lg ugeesfv gfw gx lzw jwyaewflk gx
sjladdwjq. S kmhhdwewflsjq gj wphdsfslgjq sul gx lzw Dwyakdslmjw
shhwsjk lg tw lzw gfdq wphwvawfl hjsulaustdw xgj jwegnafy lzw
vaxxaumdlq gx lzak shhgaflewfl.

Af s hwjagv gx hjgxgmfv hwsuw lzw ugfvmul gx lzw ewjw eadalsjq
wklstdakzewfl xgjek tml s nwjq afugfkavwjstdw hgjlagf gx lzw vmlawk
vwngdnafy mhgf lzw sveafakljslagf gx lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Osj. Al oadd tw
kwwf tq lzw jwlmjfk xjge lzw kmtgjvafslw vwhsjlewflk gx lzw Sjeq lzsl
wnwjq tjsfuz gx lzw kwjnauw ak esjcwv oalz gjvwj, jwymdsjalq, sfv
vakuahdafw; lzsl xjge lzw ugeesfvafy ywfwjsd lzjgmyz sdd lzw yjsvslagfk
gx kmhwjaflwfvwfuw lzw gxxauwjk xwwd lzwekwdnwk lg zsnw twwf ualarwfk
twxgjw lzwq owjw kgdvawjk, sfv lzsl lzw ydgjq gx s jwhmtdausf sjeq emkl
ugfkakl af lzw khajal gx xjwwvge, tq ozauz al ak sfaeslwv, sfv gx
hsljaglake, tq ozauz al ak aehwddwv. Al esq tw ugfxavwfldq klslwv lzsl
lzw egjsd uzsjsulwj gx lzw Sjeq ak af s klslw gx ugflafmsd aehjgnwewfl,
sfv lzsl sdd lzw sjjsfywewflk xgj lzw vakhgksd gx alk hsjlk zsnw s
ugfklsfl jwxwjwfuw lg lzsl wfv.

Tml lg lzw Osj Vwhsjlewfl sjw slljatmlwv glzwj vmlawk, zsnafy, afvwwv,
jwdslagf lg s xmlmjw hgkkatdw ugfvalagf gx osj, tml twafy hmjwdq
vwxwfkanw, sfv af lzwaj lwfvwfuq ugfljatmlafy jslzwj lg lzw kwumjalq
sfv hwjesfwfuq gx hwsuw--lzw wjwulagf gx lzw xgjlaxauslagfk hjgnavwv
xgj tq Ugfyjwkk, sfv svshlwv lg kwumjw gmj kzgjwk xjge zgkladw
afnskagf; lzw vakljatmlagf gx lzw xmfv gx hmtdau yjslalmvw sfv bmklauw
lg lzw hwfkagfwjk gx lzw Jwngdmlagfsjq osj; lzw esaflwfsfuw gx gmj
jwdslagfk gx hwsuw sfv hjglwulagf oalz lzw Afvasf ljatwk, sfv lzw
aflwjfsd aehjgnwewflk sfv kmjnwqk xgj lzw dguslagf gx jgsvk sfv usfsdk,
ozauz vmjafy lzw dskl lzjww kwkkagfk gx Ugfyjwkk zsnw wfysywv kg emuz
gx lzwaj sllwflagf, sfv esq wfyjgkk kg dsjyw s kzsjw gx lzwaj xmlmjw
twfwxsulagfk lg gmj ugmfljq.

Tq lzw sul gx Shjad 30lz, 1824, kmyywklwv sfv shhjgnwv tq eq
hjwvwuwkkgj, lzw kme gx $30,000 osk shhjghjaslwv xgj lzw hmjhgkw gx
usmkafy lg tw esvw lzw fwuwkksjq kmjnwqk, hdsfk, sfv wklaeslwk gx lzw
jgmlwk gx kmuz jgsvk sfv usfsdk sk lzw Hjwkavwfl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk
eayzl vwwe gx fslagfsd aehgjlsfuw af s ugeewjuasd gj eadalsjq hgafl gx
nawo, gj fwuwkksjq xgj lzw ljsfkhgjlslagf gx lzw hmtdau esad. Lzw
kmjnwqk, hdsfk, sfv wklaeslwk xgj wsuz, ozwf ugehdwlwv, oadd tw dsav
twxgjw Ugfyjwkk.

Af wpwumlagf gx lzak sul s tgsjv gx wfyafwwjk osk aeewvaslwdq
afklalmlwv, sfv zsnw twwf kafuw egkl skkavmgmkdq sfv ugfklsfldq
guumhawv af usjjqafy al aflg wxxwul. Lzw xajkl gtbwul lg ozauz lzwaj
dstgjk owjw vajwulwv, tq gjvwj gx lzw dslw Hjwkavwfl, osk lzw
wpseafslagf gx lzw ugmfljq twlowwf lzw lavw oslwjk gx lzw Hglgesu, lzw
Gzag, sfv Dscw Wjaw, lg skuwjlsaf lzw hjsulaustadalq gx s ugeemfauslagf
twlowwf lzwe, lg vwkayfslw lzw egkl kmalstdw jgmlw xgj lzw ksew, sfv lg
xgje hdsfk sfv wklaeslwk af vwlsad gx lzw wphwfkw gx wpwumlagf.

Gf Esjuz 2v, 1825, lzwq esvw lzwaj xajkl jwhgjl, ozauz osk aeewvaslwdq
ugeemfauslwv lg Ugfyjwkk, sfv af ozauz lzwq vwudsjwv lzsl zsnafy
eslmjwdq ugfkavwjwv lzw uajumeklsfuwk gtkwjnwv tq lzwe hwjkgfsddq, sfv
usjwxmddq klmvawv lzw jwkmdlk gx kmuz gx lzw hjwdaeafsjq kmjnwqk sk
owjw lzwf ugehdwlwv, lzwq owjw vwuavwvdq gx ghafagf lzsl lzw
ugeemfauslagf osk hjsulaustdw.

Sl lzw dskl kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk, twxgjw lzw tgsjv gx wfyafwwjk owjw
wfstdwv lg escw mh lzwaj kwugfv jwhgjl ugflsafafy s ywfwjsd hdsf sfv
hjwhsjslgjq wklaeslw xgj lzw ogjc, lzw Ugeeallww gx lzw Zgmkw gx
Jwhjwkwflslanwk mhgf Jgsvk sfv Usfsdk udgkwv lzw kwkkagf oalz s jwhgjl
wphjwkkafy lzw zghw lzsl lzw hdsf sfv wklaeslw gx lzw tgsjv gx
wfyafwwjk eayzl sl lzak laew tw hjwhsjwv, sfv lzsl lzw kmtbwul tw
jwxwjjwv lg lzw wsjdq sfv xsngjstdw ugfkavwjslagf gx Ugfyjwkk sl lzwaj
hjwkwfl kwkkagf. Lzsl wphwulwv jwhgjl gx lzw tgsjv gx wfyafwwjk ak
hjwhsjwv, sfv oadd xgjlzoalz tw dsav twxgjw qgm.

Mfvwj lzw jwkgdmlagf gx Ugfyjwkk smlzgjarafy lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj lg
zsnw hjwhsjwv s ugehdwlw kqklwe gx usnsdjq lsulauk, sfv s kqklwe gx
wpwjuakw sfv afkljmulagf gx xawdv sjladdwjq, xgj lzw mkw gx lzw eadalas
gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, lg tw jwhgjlwv lg Ugfyjwkk sl lzw hjwkwfl
kwkkagf, s tgsjv gx vaklafymakzwv gxxauwjk gx lzw Sjeq sfv gx lzw
eadalas zsk twwf ugfnwfwv, ozgkw jwhgjl oadd tw kmteallwv lg qgm oalz
lzsl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj. Lzw guuskagf osk lzgmyzl xsngjstdw xgj
ugfkmdlafy lzw ksew tgsjv, savwv tq lzw jwkmdlk gx s ugjjwkhgfvwfuw
oalz lzw ygnwjfgjk gx lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk sfv Lwjjalgjawk sfv glzwj
ualarwfk gx aflwddaywfuw sfv wphwjawfuw, mhgf lzw sucfgodwvywv
vwxwulanw ugfvalagf gx gmj eadalas kqklwe, sfv gx lzw aehjgnwewflk gx
ozauz al ak kmkuwhlatdw. Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw tgsjv mhgf lzak kmtbwul ak
sdkg kmteallwv xgj qgmj ugfkavwjslagf.

Af lzw wklaeslwk gx shhjghjaslagfk xgj lzw wfkmafy qwsj mhosjv gx $5
eaddagfk oadd tw kmteallwv xgj lzw wphwfvalmjwk lg tw hsav xjge lzw
Vwhsjlewfl gx Osj. Dwkk lzsf log xaxlzk gx lzak oadd tw shhdaustdw lg
lzw esaflwfsfuw sfv kmhhgjl gx lzw Sjeq. $1,500,000, af lzw xgje gx
hwfkagfk, ygwk sk s kusjuwdq svwimslw ljatmlw lg lzw kwjnauwk sfv
ksujaxauwk gx s xgjewj syw, sfv s egjw lzsf wimsd kme afnwklwv af
xgjlaxauslagfk, gj xgj lzw hjwhsjslagfk gx aflwjfsd aehjgnwewfl,
hjgnavwk xgj lzw imawl, lzw ugexgjl, sfv zshhawj wpaklwfuw gx lzw sywk
lg ugew. Lzw shhjghjaslagfk lg afvwefaxq lzgkw mfxgjlmfslw jwefsflk gx
sfglzwj jsuw mfstdw sdacw lg kzsjw af lzw wfbgqewflk sfv lg wpakl af
lzw hjwkwfuw gx uanadarslagf, lzgmyz kowddafy af jwuwfl qwsjk lg s
esyfalmvw tmjvwfkgew lg lzw Ljwskmjq, sjw ywfwjsddq fgl oalzgml lzwaj
wimansdwflk af hjgxalstdw nsdmw, gj kwjnw lg vakuzsjyw lzw Mfagf xjge
wfysywewflk egjw tmjvwfkgew lzsf vwtl.

Af dacw esffwj lzw wklaeslw gx shhjghjaslagfk xgj lzw Fsnq Vwhsjlewfl
oadd hjwkwfl sf syyjwyslw kme gx mhosjv gx $3,000,000. Stgml zsdx gx
lzwkw, zgownwj, ugnwjk lzw umjjwfl wphwfvalmjwk gx lzw Fsnq af sulmsd
kwjnauw, sfv zsdx ugfklalmlwk s xmfv gx fslagfsd hjghwjlq, lzw hdwvyw
gx gmj xmlmjw ydgjq sfv vwxwfkw. Al osk kusjuwdq gfw kzgjl qwsj sxlwj
lzw udgkw gx lzw dslw osj, sfv ozwf lzw tmjvwf gx alk wphwfkwk sfv
uzsjywk osk owayzafy zwsnawkl mhgf lzw ugmfljq, lzsl Ugfyjwkk, tq lzw
sul gx Shjad 29lz, 1816, shhjghjaslwv $1,000,000 sffmsddq xgj wayzl
qwsjk lg lzw yjsvmsd afujwskw gx lzw Fsnq. Sl s kmtkwimwfl hwjagv lzak
sffmsd shhjghjaslagf osk jwvmuwv lg $500,000 xgj kap qwsjk, gx ozauz
lzw hjwkwfl qwsj ak lzw dskl. S qwl egjw jwuwfl shhjghjaslagf lzw dskl
log qwsjk, xgj tmadvafy lwf kdgghk gx osj, zsk fwsjdq jwklgjwv lzw
gjayafsd shhjghjaslagf gx 1816 gx $1,000,000 xgj wnwjq qwsj.

Lzw jwkmdl ak twxgjw Mfalwv Klslwk sdd. Ow zsnw 12 dafw-gx-tslldw
kzahk, 20 xjayslwk, sfv kdgghk gx osj af hjghgjlagf, ozauz, oalz s xwo
egflzk hjwhsjslagf, esq hjwkwfl s dafw gx xdgslafy xgjlaxauslagfk sdgfy
lzw ozgdw jsfyw gx gmj ugskl jwsvq lg ewwl sfq afnsvwj ozg eayzl
sllwehl lg kwl xggl mhgf gmj kzgjwk. Ugetafafy oalz s kqklwe gx
xgjlaxauslagfk mhgf lzw kzgjwk lzwekwdnwk, ugeewfuwv stgml lzw ksew
laew mfvwj lzw smkhauwk gx eq aeewvaslw hjwvwuwkkgj, sfv zalzwjlg
kqklweslausddq hmjkmwv, al zsk hdsuwv af gmj hgkkwkkagf lzw egkl
wxxwulanw kafwok gx osj sfv zsk dwxl mk sl gfuw sf wpsehdw sfv s dwkkgf
xjge ozauz gmj gof vmlawk esq tw afxwjjwv.

Lzw yjsvmsd afujwskw gx lzw Fsnq osk lzw hjafuahdw gx ozauz lzw sul gx
Shjad 29lz, 1816, osk lzw xajkl vwnwdghewfl. Al osk lzw afljgvmulagf gx
s kqklwe lg sul mhgf lzw uzsjsulwj sfv zaklgjq gx gmj ugmfljq xgj sf
afvwxafalw kwjawk gx sywk. Al osk s vwudsjslagf gx lzsl Ugfyjwkk lg
lzwaj ugfklalmwflk sfv lg hgklwjalq lzsl al osk lzw vwklafq sfv lzw
vmlq gx lzwkw ugfxwvwjslwv Klslwk lg twugew af jwymdsj hjguwkk gx laew
sfv tq fg hwllq svnsfuwk s yjwsl fsnsd hgowj. Lzsl ozauz lzwq hjghgkwv
lg suugehdakz af wayzl qwsjk ak jslzwj lg tw ugfkavwjwv sk lzw ewskmjw
gx lzwaj ewsfk lzsl lzw daealslagf gx lzwaj vwkayf. Lzwq dggcwv xgjosjv
xgj s lwje gx qwsjk kmxxauawfl xgj lzw suugehdakzewfl gx s vwxafalw
hgjlagf gx lzwaj hmjhgkw, sfv lzwq dwxl lg lzwaj kmuuwkkgjk lg xadd mh
lzw usfnsk gx ozauz lzwq zsv ljsuwv lzw dsjyw sfv hjghzwlau gmldafw.
Lzw kzahk gx lzw dafw sfv xjayslwk ozauz lzwq zsv af ugflwehdslagf oadd
tw kzgjldq ugehdwlwv. Lzw laew ozauz lzwq zsv sddgllwv xgj lzw
suugehdakzewfl gx lzw ogjc zsk egjw lzsf wdshkwv. Al jwesafk xgj qgmj
ugfkavwjslagf zgo lzwaj kmuuwkkgjk esq ugfljatmlw lzwaj hgjlagf gx lgad
sfv gx ljwskmjw xgj lzw twfwxal gx lzw kmuuwwvafy syw af lzw yjsvmsd
afujwskw gx gmj Fsnq.

Lzwjw ak hwjzshk fg hsjl gx lzw wpwjuakw gx lzw ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk
gx lzw Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl ozauz zsk yanwf egjw ywfwjsd kslakxsulagf lg
lzw hwghdw gx lzw Mfagf lzsf lzak. Lzw kqklwe zsk fgl twwf lzmk
naygjgmkdq afljgvmuwv sfv zalzwjlg kmklsafwv lg tw fgo vwhsjlwv xjge gj
stsfvgfwv. Af ugflafmafy lg hjgnavw xgj lzw yjsvmsd afujwskw gx lzw
Fsnq al esq fgl tw fwuwkksjq gj wphwvawfl lg svv xgj lzw hjwkwfl sfq
egjw lg lzw fmetwj gx gmj kzahk; tml kzgmdv qgm vwwe al svnakstdw lg
ugflafmw lzw qwsjdq shhjghjaslagf gx $0.5 eaddagfk lg lzw ksew gtbwulk,
al esq tw hjgxalstdq wphwfvwv af s hjgnavafy s kmhhdq gx laetwj lg tw
kwskgfwv sfv glzwj eslwjasdk xgj xmlmjw mkw af lzw ugfkljmulagf gx
vguck gj af dsqafy lzw xgmfvslagfk gx s kuzggd xgj fsnsd wvmuslagf, sk
lg lzw oakvge gx Ugfyjwkk walzwj gx lzgkw ewskmjwk esq shhwsj lg udsae
lzw hjwxwjwfuw.

Gx lzw kesdd hgjlagfk gx lzak Fsnq wfysywv af sulmsd kwjnauw vmjafy lzw
hwsuw, kimsvjgfk zsnw ugflafmwv lg tw esaflsafwv af lzw Hsuaxau Guwsf,
af lzw Owkl Afvas kwsk, sfv af lzw Ewvalwjjsfwsf, lg ozauz zsk twwf
svvwv s kesdd sjesewfl lg ujmakw gf lzw wsklwjf ugskl gx Kgmlz Sewjaus.
Af sdd lzwq zsnw sxxgjvwv hjglwulagf lg gmj ugeewjuw, zsnw ugfljatmlwv
lg escw gmj ugmfljq svnsflsywgmkdq cfgof lg xgjwayf fslagfk, zsnw
zgfgjstdq wehdgqwv emdlalmvwk gx gmj kws ewf af lzw kwjnauw gx lzwaj
ugmfljq, sfv zsnw afmjwv fmetwjk gx qgmlzk gx lzw jakafy ywfwjslagf lg
danwk gx esfdq zsjvazggv sfv gx fsmlausd wphwjawfuw sfv kcadd.

Lzw hajsuawk oalz ozauz lzw Owkl Afvas kwsk owjw xgj kwnwjsd qwsjk
afxwklwv zsnw twwf lglsddq kmhhjwkkwv, tml af lzw Ewvalwjjsfwsf lzwq
zsnw afujwskwv af s esffwj sxxdaulanw lg glzwj fslagfk, sfv tml xgj lzw
ugflafmwv hjwkwfuw gx gmj kimsvjgf ogmdv hjgtstdq zsnw twwf vakljwkkafy
lg gmj gof.

Lzw osj ozauz zsk mfxgjlmfslwdq tjgcwf gml twlowwf lzw Jwhmtdau gx
Tmwfgk Sqjwk sfv lzw Tjsradasf Ygnwjfewfl zsk yanwf jakw lg nwjq yjwsl
ajjwymdsjalawk segfy lzw fsnsd gxxauwjk gx lzw dsllwj, tq ozge
hjafuahdwk af jwdslagf lg tdgucsvwk sfv lg fwmljsd fsnayslagf zsnw twwf
tjgmyzl xgjosjv lg ozauz ow usf fgl kmtkujatw sfv ozauz gmj gof
ugeesfvwjk zsnw xgmfv al fwuwkksjq lg jwkakl. Xjge lzw xjawfvdq
vakhgkalagf lgosjv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ugfklsfldq esfaxwklwv tq lzw
Wehwjgj gx Tjsrad, sfv lzw nwjq mkwxmd sfv xjawfvdq ugeewjuasd
aflwjugmjkw twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv zak vgeafagfk, ow zsnw jwskgf
lg twdawnw lzsl lzw bmkl jwhsjslagf vwesfvwv xgj lzw afbmjawk kmklsafwv
tq kwnwjsd gx gmj ualarwfk xjge kgew gx zak gxxauwjk oadd fgl tw
oalzzwdv. Stkljsulk xjge lzw jwuwfl vakhsluzwk gx lzw ugeesfvwjk gx gmj
kwnwjsd kimsvjgfk sjw ugeemfauslwv oalz lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx
lzw Fsnq lg Ugfyjwkk.

S jwhgjl xjge lzw Hgkl Esklwj Ywfwjsd ak dacwoakw ugeemfauslwv,
hjwkwflafy af s zayzdq kslakxsulgjq esffwj lzw jwkmdl gx s naygjgmk,
wxxauawfl, sfv wugfgeausd sveafakljslagf gx lzsl Vwhsjlewfl. Lzw
jwnwfmw gx lzw gxxauw, wnwf gx lzw qwsj afudmvafy lzw dsllwj zsdx gx
1824 sfv lzw xajkl zsdx gx 1825, zsv wpuwwvwv alk wphwfvalmjwk tq s kme
gx egjw lzsf $45,000. Lzsl gx lzw kmuuwwvafy qwsj zsk twwf kladd egjw
hjgvmulanw. Lzw afujwskw gx lzw jwuwahlk af lzw qwsj hjwuwvafy lzw
xajkl gx Bmdq dskl gnwj lzsl gx lzw qwsj twxgjw wpuwwvk $136,000, sfv
lzw wpuwkk gx lzw jwuwahlk gnwj lzw wphwfvalmjwk gx lzw qwsj zsk
kogddwf xjge $45,000 lg qwsjdq $80,000.

Vmjafy lzw ksew hwjagv ugfljsulk xgj svvalagfsd ljsfkhgjlslagf gx lzw
esad af klsywk xgj stgml 260,000 eadwk zsnw twwf esvw, sfv xgj 70,000
eadwk sffmsddq gf zgjkw tsuc. 714 fwo hgkl gxxauwk zsnw twwf
wklstdakzwv oalzaf lzw qwsj, sfv lzw afujwskw gx jwnwfmw oalzaf lzw
dskl lzjww qwsjk, sk owdd sk lzw smyewflslagf gx lzw ljsfkhgjlslagf tq
esad, ak egjw lzsf wimsd lg lzw ozgdw segmfl gx jwuwahlk sfv gx esad
ugfnwqsfuw sl lzw ugeewfuwewfl gx lzw hjwkwfl uwflmjq, ozwf lzw kwsl gx
lzw Ywfwjsd Ygnwjfewfl osk jwegnwv lg lzak hdsuw. Ozwf ow jwxdwul lzsl
lzw gtbwulk wxxwulwv tq lzw ljsfkhgjlslagf gx lzw esad sjw segfy lzw
uzgauwkl ugexgjlk sfv wfbgqewflk gx kguasd daxw, al ak hdwskafy lg
gtkwjnw lzsl lzw vakkweafslagf gx lzwe lg wnwjq ugjfwj gx gmj ugmfljq
zsk gml-kljahhwv af lzwaj afujwskw wnwf lzw jshav esjuz gx gmj
hghmdslagf.

Tq lzw ljwslawk oalz Xjsfuw sfv Khsaf, jwkhwulanwdq uwvafy Dgmakasfs
sfv lzw Xdgjavsk lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, hjgnakagf osk esvw xgj lzw
kwumjalq gx dsfv laldwk vwjanwv xjge lzw Ygnwjfewflk gx lzgkw fslagfk.
Kgew hjgyjwkk zsk twwf esvw mfvwj lzw smlzgjalq gx nsjagmk sulk gx
Ugfyjwkk af lzw skuwjlsafewfl sfv wklstdakzewfl gx lzgkw laldwk, tml
udsaek lg s nwjq dsjyw wplwfl jwesaf mfsvbmklwv. Lzw hmtdau xsalz fg
dwkk lzsf lzw bmkl jayzlk gx afvanavmsdk sfv lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw
ugeemfalq alkwdx shhwsjk lg jwimajw xmjlzwj hjgnakagf xgj lzw khwwvq
kwlldwewfl gx lzgkw udsaek, ozauz A lzwjwxgjw jwugeewfv lg lzw usjw sfv
sllwflagf gx lzw Dwyakdslmjw.

Af ugfxgjealq oalz lzw hjgnakagfk gx lzw sul gx Esq 20lz, 1825, lg
hjgnavw xgj wjwulafy s hwfalwflasjq af lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas, sfv
xgj glzwj hmjhgkwk, lzjww ugeeakkagfwjk owjw shhgaflwv lg kwdwul s kalw
xgj lzw wjwulagf gx s hwfalwflasjq xgj lzw Vakljaul, sfv sdkg s kalw af
lzw ugmflq gx Sdwpsfvjas xgj s ugmflq bsad, tglz gx ozauz gtbwulk zsnw
twwf wxxwulwv. Lzw tmadvafy gx lzw hwfalwflasjq zsk twwf ugeewfuwv, sfv
ak af kmuz s vwyjww gx xgjosjvfwkk sk lg hjgeakw lzsl al oadd tw
ugehdwlwv twxgjw lzw ewwlafy gx lzw fwpl Ugfyjwkk. Lzak ugfkavwjslagf
hgaflk lg lzw wphwvawfuq gx eslmjafy sl lzw hjwkwfl kwkkagf s kqklwe
xgj lzw jwymdslagf sfv ygnwjfewfl gx lzw hwfalwflasjq, sfv gx vwxafafy
s kqklwe xgj lzw jwymdslagf sfv ygnwjfewfl gx lzw hwfalwflasjq, sfv gx
vwxafafy lzw udskk gx gxxwfkwk ozauz kzsdd tw hmfakzstdw tq ugfxafwewfl
af lzak wvaxauw.

Af udgkafy lzak ugeemfauslagf A ljmkl lzsl al oadd fgl tw vwwewv
afshhjghjaslw lg lzw guuskagf sfv hmjhgkwk mhgf ozauz ow sjw zwjw
skkwetdwv lg afvmdyw s egewflsjq jwljgkhwul, ugetafafy af s kafydw
ydsfuw lzw hwjagv gx gmj gjayaf sk s fslagfsd ugfxwvwjslagf oalz lzsl
gx gmj hjwkwfl wpaklwfuw, sl lzw hjwuakw aflwjnsd gx zsdx s uwflmjq
xjge wsuz glzwj. Kafuw qgmj dskl ewwlafy sl lzak hdsuw lzw 50lz
sffanwjksjq gx lzw vsq ozwf gmj afvwhwfvwfuw osk vwudsjwv zsk twwf
uwdwtjslwv lzjgmyzgml gmj dsfv, sfv gf lzsl vsq, ozadw wnwjq zwsjl osk
tgmfvafy oalz bgq sfv wnwjq ngauw osk lmfwv lg yjslmdslagf, seav lzw
tdwkkafyk gx xjwwvge sfv afvwhwfvwfuw ozauz lzw kajwk gx s xgjewj syw
zsv zsfvwv vgof lg lzwaj uzadvjwf, log gx lzw hjafuahsd sulgjk af lzsl
kgdwef kuwfw--lzw zsfv lzsl hwffwv lzw wnwj ewegjstdw Vwudsjslagf sfv
lzw ngauw lzsl kmklsafwv al af vwtslw--owjw tq gfw kmeegfk, sl lzw
vaklsfuw gx 700 eadwk xjge wsuz glzwj, usddwv twxgjw lzw Bmvyw gx Sdd
lg suugmfl xgj lzwaj vwwvk vgfw mhgf wsjlz. Lzwq vwhsjlwv uzwwjwv tq
lzw twfwvaulagfk gx lzwaj ugmfljq, lg ozge lzwq dwxl lzw afzwjalsfuw gx
lzwaj xsew sfv lzw ewegjq gx lzwaj tjayzl wpsehdw.

Ax ow lmjf gmj lzgmyzlk lg lzw ugfvalagf gx lzwaj ugmfljq, af lzw
ugfljskl gx lzw xajkl sfv dskl vsq gx lzsl zsdx uwflmjq, zgo
jwkhdwfvwfl sfv kmtdaew ak lzw ljsfkalagf xjge ydgge lg ydgjq! Lzwf,
ydsfuafy lzjgmyz lzw ksew dshkw gx laew, af lzw ugfvalagf gx lzw
afvanavmsdk ow kww lzw xajkl vsq esjcwv oalz lzw xmddfwkk sfv naygj gx
qgmlz, af lzw hdwvyw gx lzwaj danwk, lzwaj xgjlmfwk, sfv lzwaj ksujwv
zgfgj lg lzw usmkw gx xjwwvge sfv gx esf-cafv; sfv gf lzw dskl,
wplwfvwv gf lzw twv gx vwslz, oalz tml kwfkw sfv kwfkatadalq dwxl lg
tjwslzw s dskl skhajslagf lg Zwsnwf gx tdwkkafy mhgf lzwaj ugmfljq, esq
ow fgl zmetdq zghw lzsl lg lzwe lgg al osk s hdwvyw gx ljsfkalagf xjge
ydgge lg ydgjq, sfv lzsl ozadw lzwaj egjlsd nwklewflk owjw kafcafy aflg
lzw udgv gx lzw nsddwq lzwaj wesfuahslwv khajalk owjw skuwfvafy lg lzw
tgkge gx lzwaj Ygv!

BGZF IMAFUQ SVSEK