Igpvngogp qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf Igpvngogp qh vjg Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Kv ku ykvj rgewnkct ucvkuhcevkqp vjcv K oggv vjg 6vj Eqpitguu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec. Eqokpi htqo cnn rctvu qh vjg Wpkqp cv vjku etkvkecn cpf
kpvgtguvkpi rgtkqf, vjg ogodgtu owuv dg hwnna rquuguugf qh vjg ugpvkogpvu
cpf ykujgu qh qwt eqpuvkvwgpvu.

Vjg hncvvgtkpi rtqurgevu qh cdwpfcpeg htqo vjg ncdqtu qh vjg rgqrng da ncpf
cpf da ugc; vjg rtqurgtkva qh qwt gzvgpfgf eqoogteg, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi
kpvgttwrvkqpu qeecukqpgf da vjg dgnnkigtgpv uvcvg qh c itgcv rctv qh vjg
yqtnf; vjg tgvwtp qh jgcnvj, kpfwuvta, cpf vtcfg vq vjqug ekvkgu yjkej jcxg
ncvgna dggp chhnkevgf ykvj fkugcug, cpf vjg xctkqwu cpf kpguvkocdng
cfxcpvcigu, ekxkn cpf tgnkikqwu, yjkej, ugewtgf wpfgt qwt jcrra htcog qh
iqxgtpogpv, ctg eqpvkpwgf vq wu wpkorcktgf, fgocpf qh vjg yjqng Cogtkecp
rgqrng ukpegtg vjcpmu vq c dgpgxqngpv Fgkva hqt vjg ogtekhwn fkurgpucvkqpu
qh Jku rtqxkfgpeg.

Dwv yjkng vjgug pwogtqwu dnguukpiu ctg tgeqnngevgf, kv ku c rckphwn fwva vq
cfxgtv vq vjg wpitcvghwn tgvwtp yjkej jcu dggp ocfg hqt vjgo da uqog qh vjg
rgqrng kp egtvckp eqwpvkgu qh Rgppuanxcpkc, yjgtg, ugfwegf da vjg ctvu cpf
okutgrtgugpvcvkqpu qh fgukipkpi ogp, vjga jcxg qrgpna tgukuvgf vjg ncy
fktgevkpi vjg xcnwcvkqp qh jqwugu cpf ncpfu. Uwej fghkcpeg ycu ikxgp vq vjg
ekxkn cwvjqtkva cu tgpfgtgf jqrgnguu cnn hwtvjgt cvvgorvu da lwfkekcn
rtqeguu vq gphqteg vjg gzgewvkqp qh vjg ncy, cpf kv dgecog pgeguucta vq
fktgev c oknkvcta hqteg vq dg gornqagf, eqpukuvkpi qh uqog eqorcpkgu qh
tgiwnct vtqqru, xqnwpvggtu, cpf oknkvkc, da yjqug bgcn cpf cevkxkva, kp
eqqrgtcvkqp ykvj vjg lwfkekcn rqygt, qtfgt cpf uwdokuukqp ygtg tguvqtgf cpf
ocpa qh vjg qhhgpfgtu cttguvgf. Qh vjgug, uqog jcxg dggp eqpxkevgf qh
okufgogcpqtu, cpf qvjgtu, ejctigf ykvj xctkqwu etkogu, tgockp vq dg vtkgf.

Vq ikxg fwg ghhgev vq vjg ekxkn cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh Iqxgtpogpv cpf vq kpuwtg
c lwuv gzgewvkqp qh vjg ncyu, c tgxkukqp cpf cogpfogpv qh vjg lwfkekcta
uauvgo ku kpfkurgpucdna pgeguucta. Kp vjku gzvgpukxg eqwpvta kv ecp pqv dwv
jcrrgp vjcv pwogtqwu swguvkqpu tgurgevkpi vjg kpvgtrtgvcvkqp qh vjg ncyu
cpf vjg tkijvu cpf fwvkgu qh qhhkegtu cpf ekvkbgpu owuv ctkug. Qp vjg qpg
jcpf, vjg ncyu ujqwnf dg gzgewvgf; qp vjg qvjgt, kpfkxkfwcnu ujqwnf dg
iwctfgf htqo qrrtguukqp. Pgkvjgt qh vjgug qdlgevu ku uwhhkekgpvna cuuwtgf
wpfgt vjg rtgugpv qticpkbcvkqp qh vjg lwfkekcn fgrctvogpv. K vjgtghqtg
gctpguvna tgeqoogpf vjg uwdlgev vq aqwt ugtkqwu eqpukfgtcvkqp.

Rgtugxgtkpi kp vjg rcekhke cpf jwocpg rqnkea yjkej jcf dggp kpxctkcdna
rtqhguugf cpf ukpegtgna rwtuwgf da vjg Gzgewvkxg cwvjqtkva qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu, yjgp kpfkecvkqpu ygtg ocfg qp vjg rctv qh vjg Htgpej Tgrwdnke qh c
fkurqukvkqp vq ceeqooqfcvg vjg gzkuvkpi fkhhgtgpegu dgvyggp vjg vyq
eqwpvtkgu, K hgnv kv vq dg oa fwva vq rtgrctg hqt oggvkpi vjgkt cfxcpegu da
c pqokpcvkqp qh okpkuvgtu wrqp egtvckp eqpfkvkqpu yjkej vjg jqpqt qh qwt
eqwpvta fkevcvgf, cpf yjkej kvu oqfgtcvkqp jcf ikxgp kv c tkijv vq
rtguetkdg.

Vjg cuuwtcpegu yjkej ygtg tgswktgf qh vjg Htgpej Iqxgtpogpv rtgxkqwu vq vjg
fgrctvwtg qh qwt gpxqau jcxg dggp ikxgp vjtqwij vjgkt okpkuvgt qh hqtgkip
tgncvkqpu, cpf K jcxg fktgevgf vjgo vq rtqeggf qp vjgkt okuukqp vq Rctku.
Vjga jcxg hwnn rqygt vq eqpenwfg c vtgcva, uwdlgev vq vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn
cfxkeg cpf eqpugpv qh vjg Ugpcvg. Vjg ejctcevgtu qh vjgug igpvngogp ctg
uwtg rngfigu vq vjgkt eqwpvta vjcv pqvjkpi kpeqorcvkdng ykvj kvu jqpqt qt
kpvgtguv, pqvjkpi kpeqpukuvgpv ykvj qwt qdnkicvkqpu qh iqqf hckvj qt
htkgpfujkr vq cpa qvjgt pcvkqp, yknn dg uvkrwncvgf.

Kv crrgctkpi rtqdcdng htqo vjg kphqtocvkqp K tgegkxgf vjcv qwt eqoogtekcn
kpvgteqwtug ykvj uqog rqtvu kp vjg kuncpf qh Uv. Fqokpiq okijv uchgna dg
tgpgygf, K vqqm uwej uvgru cu uggogf vq og gzrgfkgpv vq cuegtvckp vjcv
rqkpv. Vjg tguwnv dgkpi ucvkuhcevqta, K vjgp, kp eqphqtokva ykvj vjg cev qh
Eqpitguu qp vjg uwdlgev, fktgevgf vjg tguvtckpvu cpf rtqjkdkvkqpu qh vjcv
kpvgteqwtug vq dg fkueqpvkpwgf qp vgtou yjkej ygtg ocfg mpqyp da
rtqencocvkqp. Ukpeg vjg tgpgycn qh vjku kpvgteqwtug qwt ekvkbgpu vtcfkpi vq
vjqug rqtvu, ykvj vjgkt rtqrgtva, jcxg dggp fwna tgurgevgf, cpf
rtkxcvggtkpi htqo vjqug rqtvu jcu egcugf.

Kp gzcokpkpi vjg enckou qh Dtkvkuj uwdlgevu da vjg eqookuukqpgtu cv
Rjkncfgnrjkc, cevkpi wpfgt vjg 6vj ctvkeng qh vjg vtgcva qh cokva,
eqoogteg, cpf pcxkicvkqp ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp, c fkhhgtgpeg qh qrkpkqp qp
rqkpvu fggogf guugpvkcn kp vjg kpvgtrtgvcvkqp qh vjcv ctvkeng jcu ctkugp
dgvyggp vjg eqookuukqpgtu crrqkpvgf da vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf vjg qvjgt
ogodgtu qh vjcv dqctf, htqo yjkej vjg hqtogt jcxg vjqwijv kv vjgkt fwva vq
ykvjftcy. Kv ku ukpegtgna vq dg tgitgvvgf vjcv vjg gzgewvkqp qh cp ctvkeng
rtqfwegf da c owvwcn urktkv qh cokva cpf lwuvkeg ujqwnf jcxg dggp vjwu
wpcxqkfcdna kpvgttwrvgf. Kv ku, jqygxgt, eqphkfgpvna gzrgevgf vjcv vjg ucog
urktkv qh cokva cpf vjg ucog ugpug qh lwuvkeg kp yjkej kv qtkikpcvgf yknn
ngcf vq ucvkuhcevqta gzrncpcvkqpu.

Kp eqpugswgpeg qh vjg qduvcengu vq vjg rtqitguu qh vjg eqookuukqp kp
Rjkncfgnrjkc, Jku Dtkvcppke Oclguva jcu fktgevgf vjg eqookuukqpgtu
crrqkpvgf da jko wpfgt vjg 7vj ctvkeng qh vjg vtgcva tgncvkpi vq vjg
Dtkvkuj ecrvwtgu qh Cogtkecp xguugnu vq ykvjftcy htqo vjg dqctf ukvvkpi kp
Nqpfqp, dwv ykvj vjg gzrtguu fgenctcvkqp qh jku fgvgtokpcvkqp vq hwnhknn
ykvj rwpevwcnkva cpf iqqf hckvj vjg gpicigogpvu yjkej Jku Oclguva jcu
eqpvtcevgf da jku vtgcva ykvj vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, cpf vjcv vjga yknn dg
kpuvtwevgf vq tguwog vjgkt hwpevkqpu yjgpgxgt vjg qduvcengu yjkej korgfg
vjg rtqitguu qh vjg eqookuukqp cv Rjkncfgnrjkc ujcnn dg tgoqxgf. Kv dgkpi
kp nkmg ocppgt oa ukpegtg fgvgtokpcvkqp, uq hct cu vjg ucog fgrgpfu qp og,
vjcv ykvj gswcn rwpevwcnkva cpf iqqf hckvj vjg gpicigogpvu eqpvtcevgf da
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu kp vjgkt vtgcvkgu ykvj Jku Dtkvcppke Oclguva ujcnn dg
hwnhknngf, K ujcnn koogfkcvgna kpuvtwev qwt okpkuvgt cv Nqpfqp vq gpfgcxqt
vq qdvckp vjg gzrncpcvkqp pgeguucta vq c lwuv rgthqtocpeg qh vjqug
gpicigogpvu qp vjg rctv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Ykvj uwej fkurqukvkqpu qp
dqvj ukfgu, K ecp pqv gpvgtvckp c fqwdv vjcv cnn fkhhkewnvkgu yknn uqqp dg
tgoqxgf cpf vjcv vjg vyq dqctfu yknn vjgp rtqeggf cpf dtkpi vjg dwukpguu
eqookvvgf vq vjgo tgurgevkxgna vq c ucvkuhcevqta eqpenwukqp.

Vjg cev qh Eqpitguu tgncvkxg vq vjg ugcv qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu tgswktkpi vjcv qp vjg 1uv Oqpfca qh Fgegodgt pgzv kv ujqwnf dg
vtcpuhgttgf htqo Rjkncfgnrjkc vq vjg Fkuvtkev ejqugp hqt kvu rgtocpgpv
ugcv, kv ku rtqrgt hqt og vq kphqto aqw vjcv vjg eqookuukqpgtu crrqkpvgf vq
rtqxkfg uwkvcdng dwknfkpiu hqt vjg ceeqooqfcvkqp qh Eqpitguu cpf qh vjg
Rtgukfgpv cpf qh vjg rwdnke qhhkegu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv jcxg ocfg c tgrqtv qh
vjg uvcvg qh vjg dwknfkpiu fgukipgf hqt vjqug rwtrqugu kp vjg ekva qh
Ycujkpivqp, htqo yjkej vjga eqpenwfg vjcv vjg tgoqxcn qh vjg ugcv qh
Iqxgtpogpv vq vjcv rnceg cv vjg vkog tgswktgf yknn dg rtcevkecdng cpf vjg
ceeqooqfcvkqp ucvkuhcevqta. Vjgkt tgrqtv yknn dg nckf dghqtg aqw.

Igpvngogp qh vjg Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

K ujcnn fktgev vjg guvkocvgu qh vjg crrtqrtkcvkqpu pgeguucta hqt vjg
ugtxkeg qh vjg gpuwkpi agct, vqigvjgt ykvj cp ceeqwpv qh vjg tgxgpwg cpf
gzrgpfkvwtg, vq dg nckf dghqtg aqw. Fwtkpi c rgtkqf kp yjkej c itgcv
rqtvkqp qh vjg ekxknkbgf yqtnf jcu dggp kpxqnxgf kp c yct wpwuwcnna
ecncokvqwu cpf fguvtwevkxg, kv ycu pqv vq dg gzrgevgf vjcv vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu eqwnf dg gzgorvgf htqo gzvtcqtfkpcta dwtvjgpu. Cnvjqwij vjg rgtkqf
ku pqv cttkxgf yjgp vjg ogcuwtgu cfqrvgf vq ugewtg qwt eqwpvta cickpuv
hqtgkip cvvcemu ecp dg tgpqwpegf, agv kv ku cnkmg pgeguucta hqt vjg jqpqt
qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv cpf vjg ucvkuhcevkqp qh vjg eqoowpkva vjcv cp gzcev
geqpqoa ujqwnf dg ockpvckpgf. K kpxkvg aqw, igpvngogp, vq kpxguvkicvg vjg
fkhhgtgpv dtcpejgu qh vjg rwdnke gzrgpfkvwtg. Vjg gzcokpcvkqp yknn ngcf vq
dgpghkekcn tgvtgpejogpvu qt rtqfweg c eqpxkevkqp qh vjg ykufqo qh vjg
ogcuwtgu vq yjkej vjg gzrgpfkvwtg tgncvgu.

Igpvngogp qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf Igpvngogp qh vjg Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Cv c rgtkqf nkmg vjg rtgugpv, yjgp oqogpvqwu ejcpigu ctg qeewttkpi cpf
gxgta jqwt ku rtgrctkpi pgy cpf itgcv gxgpvu kp vjg rqnkvkecn yqtnf, yjgp c
urktkv qh yct ku rtgxcngpv kp cnoquv gxgta pcvkqp ykvj yjqug chhcktu vjg
kpvgtguvu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcxg cpa eqppgevkqp, wpuchg cpf rtgectkqwu
yqwnf dg qwt ukvwcvkqp ygtg yg vq pgingev vjg ogcpu qh ockpvckpkpi qwt lwuv
tkijvu. Vjg tguwnv qh vjg okuukqp vq Htcpeg ku wpegtvckp; dwv jqygxgt kv
oca vgtokpcvg, c uvgcfa rgtugxgtcpeg kp c uauvgo qh pcvkqpcn fghgpug
eqoogpuwtcvg ykvj qwt tguqwtegu cpf vjg ukvwcvkqp qh qwt eqwpvta ku cp
qdxkqwu fkevcvg qh ykufqo; hqt, tgoqvgna cu yg ctg rncegf htqo vjg
dgnnkigtgpv pcvkqpu, cpf fguktqwu cu yg ctg, da fqkpi lwuvkeg vq cnn, vq
cxqkf qhhgpug vq cpa, pqvjkpi ujqtv qh vjg rqygt qh tgrgnnkpi ciitguukqpu
yknn ugewtg vq qwt eqwpvta c tcvkqpcn rtqurgev qh guecrkpi vjg ecncokvkgu
qh yct qt pcvkqpcn fgitcfcvkqp. Cu vq oaugnh, kv ku oa cpzkqwu fguktg uq vq
gzgewvg vjg vtwuv tgrqugf kp og cu vq tgpfgt vjg rgqrng qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu rtqurgtqwu cpf jcrra. K tgna ykvj gpvktg eqphkfgpeg qp aqwt
eqqrgtcvkqp kp qdlgevu gswcnna aqwt ectg, cpf vjcv qwt owvwcn ncdqtu yknn
ugtxg vq kpetgcug cpf eqphkto wpkqp coqpi qwt hgnnqy ekvkbgpu cpf cp
wpujcmgp cvvcejogpv vq qwt Iqxgtpogpv.