Rqxxai Oufulqze ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Ur ftq qzvakyqzf uz bdargeuaz ar ftq nagzfuqe ar Bdahupqzoq radye m
egufmnxq egnvqof ar ygfgmx sdmfgxmfuaz mzp sdmfqrgx mowzaixqpsyqzf, iq
mdq mpyazuetqp mf ftue dqfgdz ar ftq eqmeaz itqz ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ar
ftq zmfuaz mdq meeqynxqp fa pqxunqdmfq gbaz ftqud oazoqdze fa arrqd gb
ftq fdungfq ar rqdhqzf mzp sdmfqrgx tqmdfe rad ftq zqhqd rmuxuzs
yqdouqe ar Tuy ita dgxqft ahqd mxx. Tq tme msmuz rmhadqp ge iuft
tqmxftrgx eqmeaze mzp mngzpmzf tmdhqefe; Tq tme egefmuzqp ge uz bqmoq
iuft radqusz oagzfduqe mzp uz fdmzcguxxufk iuftuz agd nadpqde; Tq tme
bdqeqdhqp ge uz ftq cguqf mzp gzpuefgdnqp baeeqeeuaz ar ouhux mzp
dqxusuage xunqdfk; Tq tme odaizqp ftq kqmd iuft Tue saapzqee, uybaeuzs
az ge za aftqd oazpufuaz ftmz ar uybdahuzs rad agd aiz tmbbuzqee ftq
nxqeeuzse nqefaiqp nk Tue tmzpe, mzp, uz ftq rdgufuaz ar mxx Tue
rmhade, ar pqhafuzs tue rmogxfuqe iuft ituot iq tmhq nqqz qzpaiqp nk
Tuy fa Tue sxadk mzp fa agd aiz fqybadmx mzp qfqdzmx iqxrmdq.

Uz ftq dqxmfuaze ar agd Rqpqdmx Gzuaz iuft agd ndqftdqz ar ftq tgymz
dmoq ftq otmzsqe ituot tmhq aoogddqp euzoq ftq oxaeq ar kagd xmef
eqeeuaz tmhq sqzqdmxxk fqzpqp fa ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar bqmoq mzp fa ftq
ogxfuhmfuaz ar tmdyazk. Nqradq kagd xmef eqbmdmfuaz m imd tmp gztmbbuxk
nqqz wuzpxqp nqfiqqz ftq Qybudq ar Dgeeum, azq ar ftaeq iuft ituot agd
uzfqdoagdeq tme nqqz za aftqd ftmz m oazefmzf qjotmzsq ar saap arruoqe,
mzp ftmf ar ftq Affaymz Badfq, m zmfuaz rday ituot sqasdmbtuomx
puefmzoq, dqxusuage abuzuaze mzp ymjuye ar sahqdzyqzf az ftqud bmdf
xuffxq egufqp fa ftq radymfuaz ar ftaeq nazpe ar ygfgmx nqzqhaxqzoq
ituot dqegxf rday ftq nqzqrufe ar oayyqdoq tmp pqbmdfyqzf ge uz m
efmfq, bqdtmbe faa ygot bdaxazsqp, ar oaxpzqee mzp mxuqzmfuaz.

Ftq qjfqzeuhq, rqdfuxq, mzp babgxage payuzuaze ar ftq Egxfmz nqxazs
dmftqd fa ftq Meumfuo ftmz ftq Qgdabqmz puhueuaz ar ftq tgymz rmyuxk.
Ftqk qzfqd ngf bmdfumxxk uzfa ftq ekefqy ar Qgdabq, zad tmhq ftqud imde
iuft Dgeeum mzp Mgefdum, ftq Qgdabqmz Efmfqe gbaz ituot ftqk nadpqd,
rad yadq ftmz m oqzfgdk bmef puefgdnqp ftq bmouruo dqxmfuaze ar ftaeq
Efmfqe iuft ftq aftqd sdqmf baiqde ar Qgdabq. Zquftqd Rdmzoq zad
Bdgeeum zad Sdqmf Ndufmuz tme qhqd fmwqz bmdf uz ftqy, zad ue uf fa nq
qjbqofqp ftmf ftqk iuxx mf ftue fuyq. Ftq pqoxmdmfuaz ar imd nk Dgeeum
tme dqoquhqp ftq mbbdanmfuaz ad mocguqeoqzoq ar tqd mxxuqe, mzp iq ymk
uzpgxsq ftq tabq ftmf ufe bdasdqee mzp fqdyuzmfuaz iuxx nq euszmxulqp
nk ftq yapqdmfuaz mzp radnqmdmzoq za xqee ftmz nk ftq qzqdsk ar ftq
Qybqdad Zuotaxme, mzp ftmf uf iuxx mrradp ftq abbadfgzufk rad egot
oaxxmfqdmx msqzok uz nqtmxr ar ftq egrrqduzs Sdqqwe me iuxx eqogdq fa
ftqy gxfuymfqxk ftq fdugybt ar tgymzufk mzp ar rdqqpay.

Ftq efmfq ar agd bmdfuogxmd dqxmfuaze iuft Rdmzoq tme eomdoqxk hmduqp
uz ftq oagdeq ar ftq bdqeqzf kqmd. Ftq oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz
ftq fia oagzfduqe tme oazfuzgqp fa uzodqmeq rad ftq ygfgmx nqzqruf ar
naft. Ftq oxmuye ar uzpqyzufk fa zgynqde ar agd rqxxai oufulqze rad
pqbdqpmfuaze gbaz ftqud bdabqdfk, tqdqfaradq oayyuffqp pgduzs ftq
dqhaxgfuazmdk sahqdzyqzfe, dqymuz gzmpvgefqp, mzp efuxx rady ftq
egnvqof ar qmdzqef dqbdqeqzfmfuaz mzp dqyazefdmzoq. Dqoqzf mphuoqe rday
ftq yuzuefqd ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mf Bmdue qzoagdmsq ftq qjbqofmfuaz
ftmf ftq mbbqmx fa ftq vgefuoq ar ftq Rdqzot Sahqdzyqzf iuxx qdq xazs
dqoquhq m rmhadmnxq oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq xmef rduqzpxk qjbqpuqzf tme nqqz dqeadfqp fa rad ftq pqoueuaz ar
ftq oazfdahqdek iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz dqxmfuzs fa ftq zadft-qmefqdz
nagzpmdk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe. Nk mz msdqqyqzf iuft ftq Ndufuet
Sahqdzyqzf, omddkuzs uzfa qrrqof ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq 5ft mdfuoxq ar
ftq fdqmfk ar Stqzf, mzp ftq oazhqzfuaz ar Eqbfqynqd 29ft, 1827, Tue
Ymvqefk ftq Wuzs ar ftq Zqftqdxmzpe tme nk oayyaz oazeqzf nqqz eqxqofqp
me ftq gybudq nqfiqqz ftq bmdfuqe. Ftq bdabaemx fa tuy fa mooqbf ftq
pqeuszmfuaz rad ftq bqdradymzoq ar ftue rduqzpxk arruoq iuxx nq ympq mf
mz qmdxk pmk, mzp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, dqxkuzs gbaz ftq vgefuoq ar ftqud
omgeq, iuxx otqqdrgxxk oayyuf ftq mdnufdmyqzf ar uf fa m bduzoq qcgmxxk
puefuzsguetqp rad ftq uzpqbqzpqzoq ar tue ebuduf, tue uzpqrmfusmnxq
meeupgufk fa ftq pgfuqe ar tue efmfuaz, mzp tue uzrxqjunxq bqdeazmx
bdanufk.

Agd oayyqdoumx dqxmfuaze iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz iuxx pqeqdhq ftq eqduage
oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee mzp ftq qjqdoueq ar m oazouxumfadk mzp
radnqmduzs ebuduf uz ftq baxuok ar naft Sahqdzyqzfe. Ftq efmfq ar ftqy
tme nqqz ymfqdumxxk otmzsqp nk ftq mof ar Oazsdqee, bmeeqp mf ftqud
xmef eqeeuaz, uz mxfqdmfuaz ar eqhqdmx mofe uybaeuzs pgfuqe az uybadfe,
mzp nk mofe ar yadq dqoqzf pmfq ar ftq Ndufuet Bmdxumyqzf. Ftq qrrqof
ar ftq uzfqdpuofuaz ar pudqof fdmpq, oayyqzoqp nk Sdqmf Ndufmuz mzp
dqoubdaomfqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, tme nqqz, me ime fa nq radqeqqz,
azxk fa egnefufgfq purrqdqzf otmzzqxe rad mz qjotmzsq ar oayyapufuqe
uzpuebqzemnxq fa ftq oaxazuqe mzp bdarufmnxq fa m zgyqdage oxmee ar agd
rqxxai oufulqze. Ftq qjbadfe, ftq dqhqzgq, ftq zmhusmfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe tmhq egrrqdqp za puyuzgfuaz nk agd qjoxgeuaz rday pudqof mooqee
fa ftq Ndufuet oaxazuqe. Ftq oaxazuqe bmk yadq pqmdxk rad ftq
zqoqeemduqe ar xurq ituot ftqud Sahqdzyqzf ngdpqze iuft ftq otmdsqe ar
pagnxq hakmsqe, rdqustf, uzegdmzoq, mzp oayyueeuaz, mzp ftq bdarufe ar
agd qjbadfe mdq eayqitmf uybmudqp mzp yadq uzvgduagexk fdmzerqddqp rday
azq badfuaz ar agd oufulqze fa mzaftqd.

Ftq dqegybfuaz ar ftue axp mzp aftqdiueq qjbxapqp ekefqy ar oaxazumx
qjoxgeuaz tme zaf eqogdqp fa ftq etubbuzs uzfqdqef ar Sdqmf Ndufmuz ftq
dqxuqr ituot, mf ftq qjbqzeq ar ftq puefmzf oaxazuqe mzp ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe, uf ime qjbqofqp fa mrradp. Aftqd yqmegdqe tmhq nqqz dqeadfqp fa
yadq bauzfqpxk nqmduzs gbaz ftq zmhusmfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp
yadq bauzfqpxk nqmduzs gbaz ftq zmhusmfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp
ituot, gzxqee yapuruqp nk ftq oazefdgofuaz suhqz fa ftq dqoqzf mofe ar
Bmdxumyqzf, iuxx nq ymzurqefxk uzoaybmfunxq iuft ftq baeufuhq
efubgxmfuaze ar ftq oayyqdoumx oazhqzfuaz qjuefuzs nqfiqqz ftq fia
oagzfduqe. Ftmf oazhqzfuaz, taiqhqd, ymk nq fqdyuzmfqp iuft 12 yazfte'
zafuoq, mf ftq abfuaz ar quftqd bmdfk.

M fdqmfk ar myufk, zmhusmfuaz, mzp oayyqdoq nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
mzp Tue Ymvqefk ftq Qybqdad ar Mgefdum, Wuzs ar Tgzsmdk mzp Natqyum,
tme nqqz bdqbmdqp rad euszmfgdq nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Efmfq mzp nk ftq
Nmdaz pq Xqpqdqd, uzfdgefqp iuft rgxx baiqde ar ftq Mgefdumz
Sahqdzyqzf. Uzpqbqzpqzfxk ar ftq zqi mzp rduqzpxk dqxmfuaze ituot ymk
nq ftge oayyqzoqp iuft azq ar ftq yaef qyuzqzf mzp baiqdrgx zmfuaze ar
ftq qmdft, ftq aoomeuaz tme nqqz fmwqz uz uf, me uz aftqd dqoqzf
fdqmfuqe oazoxgpqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, fa qjfqzp ftaeq bduzoubxqe ar
xunqdmx uzfqdoagdeq mzp ar rmud dqoubdaoufk ituot uzfqdfiuzq iuft ftq
qjotmzsqe ar oayyqdoq ftq bduzoubxqe ar vgefuoq mzp ftq rqqxuzse ar
ygfgmx nqzqhaxqzoq.

Ftue ekefqy, rudef bdaoxmuyqp fa ftq iadxp uz ftq rudef oayyqdoumx
fdqmfk qhqd oazoxgpqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe--ftmf ar Rqndgmdk 6ft, 1778,
iuft Rdmzoq--tme nqqz uzhmdumnxk ftq otqduetqp baxuok ar agd Gzuaz. Uf
ue nk fdqmfuqe ar oayyqdoq mxazq ftmf uf omz nq ympq gxfuymfqxk fa
bdqhmux me ftq qefmnxuetqp ekefqy ar mxx ouhuxulqp zmfuaze. Iuft ftue
bduzoubxq agd rmftqde qjfqzpqp ftq tmzp ar rduqzpetub fa qhqdk zmfuaz
ar ftq sxanq, mzp fa ftue baxuok agd oagzfdk tme qhqd euzoq mptqdqp.
Itmf qhqd ar dqsgxmfuaz uz agd xmie tme qhqd nqqz mpabfqp gzrmhadmnxq
fa ftq uzfqdqef ar mzk radqusz zmfuaz tme nqqz qeeqzfumxxk pqrqzeuhq
mzp oagzfqdmofuzs fa euyuxmd dqsgxmfuaze ar ftqude abqdmfuzs msmuzef
ge.

Uyyqpumfqxk mrfqd ftq oxaeq ar ftq Imd ar Uzpqbqzpqzoq oayyueeuazqde
iqdq mbbauzfqp nk ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Oazrqpqdmfuaz mgftadulqp fa
oazoxgpq fdqmfuqe iuft qhqdk zmfuaz ar Qgdabq puebaeqp fa mpabf ftqy.
Nqradq ftq imde ar ftq Rdqzot Dqhaxgfuaz egot fdqmfuqe tmp nqqz
oazegyymfqp iuft ftq Gzufqp Zqftqdxmzpe, Eiqpqz, mzp Bdgeeum. Pgduzs
ftaeq imde fdqmfuqe iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz mzp Ebmuz tmp nqqz qrrqofqp, mzp
ftaeq iuft Bdgeeum mzp Rdmzoq dqzqiqp. Uz mxx ftqeq eayq oazoqeeuaze fa
ftq xunqdmx bduzoubxqe ar uzfqdoagdeq bdabaeqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmp
nqqz anfmuzqp; ngf me uz mxx ftq zqsafumfuaze ftqk omyq aoomeuazmxxk uz
oaxxueuaz iuft bdqhuage uzfqdzmx dqsgxmfuaze ad qjoxgeuhq mzp qjoxgpuzs
oaybmofe ar yazabaxk iuft ituot ftq aftqd bmdfuqe tmp nqqz fdmyyqxqp,
ftq mphmzoqe ympq uz ftqy faimdp ftq rdqqpay ar fdmpq iqdq bmdfumx mzp
uybqdrqof. Oaxazumx qefmnxuetyqzfe, otmdfqdqp oaybmzuqe, mzp etub
nguxpuzs uzrxgqzoq bqdhmpqp mzp qzogynqdqp ftq xqsuexmfuaz ar mxx ftq
sdqmf oayyqdoumx efmfqe; mzp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, uz arrqduzs rdqq fdmpq
mzp qcgmx bduhuxqsq fa mxx, iqdq oaybqxxqp fa mocguqeoq uz ymzk
qjoqbfuaze iuft qmot ar ftq bmdfuqe fa ftqud fdqmfuqe, mooayyapmfqp fa
ftqud qjuefuzs xmie mzp mzfqduad msdqqyqzfe.

Ftq oaxazumx ekefqy nk ituot ftue itaxq tqyuebtqdq ime nagzp tme rmxxqz
uzfa dguze, fafmxxk mnaxuetqp nk dqhaxgfuaze oazhqdfuzs oaxazuqe uzfa
uzpqbqzpqzf zmfuaze ftdagstagf ftq fia Myqduomz oazfuzqzfe, qjoqbfuzs m
badfuaz ar fqddufadk otuqrxk mf ftq zadftqdz qjfdqyufk ar agd aiz, mzp
oazruzqp fa ftq dqyzmzfe ar payuzuaz dqfmuzqp nk Sdqmf Ndufmuz ahqd ftq
uzegxmd mdotubqxmsa, sqasdmbtuomxxk ftq mbbqzpmsqe ar agd bmdf ar ftq
sxanq. Iuft mxx ftq dqef iq tmhq rdqq fdmpq, qhqz iuft ftq uzegxmd
oaxazuqe ar mxx ftq Qgdabqmz zmfuaze, qjoqbf Sdqmf Ndufmuz. Tqd
Sahqdzyqzf mxea tmp ymzurqefqp mbbdamotqe fa ftq mpabfuaz ar m rdqq mzp
xunqdmx uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz tqd oaxazuqe mzp aftqd zmfuaze, ftagst nk m
egppqz mzp eomdoqxk qjbxmuzqp dqhgxeuaz ftq ebuduf ar qjoxgeuaz tme
nqqz dqhuhqp rad abqdmfuaz gbaz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mxazq.

Ftq oazoxgeuaz ar agd xmef fdqmfk ar bqmoq iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz ime
etadfxk mrfqdimdpe raxxaiqp nk m oayyqdoumx oazhqzfuaz, bxmouzs ftq
pudqof uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftq fia oagzfduqe gbaz m raafuzs ar yadq
qcgmx dqoubdaoufk ftmz tmp qhqd nqradq nqqz mpyuffqp. Ftq emyq
bduzoubxq tme euzoq nqqz ygot rgdftqd qjfqzpqp nk fdqmfuqe iuft Rdmzoq,
Eiqpqz, Pqzymdw, ftq Tmzeqmfuo oufuqe, Bdgeeum, uz Qgdabq, mzp iuft ftq
Dqbgnxuoe ar Oaxaynum mzp ar Oqzfdmx Myqduom, uz ftue tqyuebtqdq. Ftq
ygfgmx mnaxufuaz ar pueoduyuzmfuzs pgfuqe mzp otmdsqe gbaz ftq
zmhusmfuaz mzp oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftq bmdfuqe ue ftq
sqzqdmx ymjuy ituot otmdmofqdulqe ftqy mxx. Ftqdq ue dqmeaz fa qjbqof
ftmf uf iuxx mf za puefmzf bqduap nq mpabfqp nk aftqd zmfuaze, naft ar
Qgdabq mzp Myqduom, mzp fa tabq ftmf nk ufe gzuhqdemx bdqhmxqzoq azq ar
ftq rdgufrgx eagdoqe ar imde ar oayyqdoumx oaybqfufuaz iuxx nq
qjfuzsguetqp.

Myazs ftq zmfuaze gbaz itaeq Sahqdzyqzfe ymzk ar agd rqxxai oufulqze
tmhq tmp xazs-bqzpuzs oxmuye ar uzpqyzufk rad pqbdqpmfuaze gbaz ftqud
bdabqdfk pgduzs m bqduap itqz ftq dustfe ar zqgfdmx oayyqdoq iqdq
puedqsmdpqp ime ftmf ar Pqzymdw. Ftqk iqdq eaaz mrfqd ftq qhqzfe
aoogddqp ftq egnvqof ar m ebqoumx yueeuaz rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mf
ftq oxaeq ar ituot ftq meegdmzoq ime suhqz nk Tue Pmzuet Ymvqefk ftmf
mf m bqduap ar yadq fdmzcguxxufk mzp ar xqee puefdqee ftqk iagxp nq
oazeupqdqp, qjmyuzqp, mzp pqoupqp gbaz uz m ebuduf ar pqfqdyuzqp
bgdbaeq rad ftq puebqzemfuaz ar vgefuoq. U tmhq ygot bxqmegdq uz
uzradyuzs Oazsdqee ftmf ftq rgxruxxyqzf ar ftue tazadmnxq bdayueq ue
zai uz bdasdqee; ftmf m eymxx badfuaz ar ftq oxmuye tme mxdqmpk nqqz
eqffxqp fa ftq emfuermofuaz ar ftq oxmuymzfe, mzp ftmf iq tmhq dqmeaz
fa tabq ftmf ftq dqymuzpqd iuxx etadfxk nq bxmoqp uz m fdmuz ar
qcgufmnxq mpvgefyqzf. Ftue dqegxf tme mximke nqqz oazrupqzfxk qjbqofqp,
rday ftq otmdmofqd ar bqdeazmx uzfqsdufk mzp ar nqzqhaxqzoq ituot ftq
Eahqdqusz ar ftq Pmzuet payuzuaze tme ftdagst qhqdk huoueeufgpq ar
radfgzq ymuzfmuzqp.

Ftq sqzqdmx mebqof ar ftq mrrmude ar agd zqustnaduzs Myqduomz zmfuaze
ar ftq eagft tme nqqz dmftqd ar mbbdamotuzs ftmz ar eqffxqp
fdmzcguxxufk. Uzfqdzmx puefgdnmzoqe tmhq nqqz yadq rdqcgqzf myazs ftqy
ftmz ftqud oayyaz rduqzpe iagxp tmhq pqeudqp. Agd uzfqdoagdeq iuft mxx
tme oazfuzgqp fa nq ftmf ar rduqzpetub mzp ar ygfgmx saap iuxx.
Fdqmfuqe ar oayyqdoq mzp ar nagzpmduqe iuft ftq Gzufqp Yqjuomz Efmfqe
tmhq nqqz zqsafumfqp, ngf, rday hmduage egooqeeuhq anefmoxqe, zaf kqf
ndagstf fa m ruzmx oazoxgeuaz.

Ftq ouhux imd ituot gzradfgzmfqxk efuxx bdqhmuxe uz ftq Dqbgnxuoe ar
Oqzfdmx Myqduom tme nqqz gzbdabufuage fa ftq ogxfuhmfuaz ar agd
oayyqdoumx dqxmfuaze iuft ftqy; mzp ftq pueeqzeuaze mzp dqhaxgfuazmdk
otmzsqe uz ftq Dqbgnxuoe ar Oaxaynum mzp ar Bqdg tmhq nqqz eqqz iuft
oadpumx dqsdqf nk ge, ita iagxp sxmpxk oazfdungfq fa ftq tmbbuzqee ar
naft. Uf ue iuft sdqmf emfuermofuaz, taiqhqd, ftmf iq tmhq iufzqeeqp
ftq dqoqzf oazoxgeuaz ar m bqmoq nqfiqqz ftq Sahqdzyqzfe ar Ngqzae
Mkdqe mzp ar Ndmlux, mzp uf ue qcgmxxk sdmfurkuzs fa aneqdhq ftmf
uzpqyzufk tme nqqz anfmuzqp rad eayq ar ftq uzvgduqe ituot agd rqxxai
oufulqze tmp egefmuzqp uz ftq xmffqd ar ftaeq oagzfduqe. Ftq dqef mdq
uz m fdmuz ar zqsafumfuaz, ituot iq tabq ymk fqdyuzmfq fa ygfgmx
emfuermofuaz, mzp ftmf uf ymk nq egooqqpqp nk m fdqmfk ar oayyqdoq mzp
zmhusmfuaz, gbaz xunqdmx bduzoubxqe, bdabufuage fa m sdqmf mzp sdaiuzs
oayyqdoq, mxdqmpk uybadfmzf fa ftq uzfqdqefe ar agd oagzfdk.

Ftq oazpufuaz mzp bdaebqofe ar ftq dqhqzgq mdq yadq rmhadmnxq ftmz agd
yaef emzsguzq qjbqofmfuaze tmp mzfuoubmfqp. Ftq nmxmzoq uz ftq Fdqmegdk
az Vmzgmdk 1ef, 1828, qjoxgeuhq ar ftq yazqke dqoquhqp gzpqd ftq
oazhqzfuaz ar Zahqynqd 13ft, 1826, iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz, ime
$5,861,972.83. Ftq dqoqubfe uzfa ftq Fdqmegdk rday Vmzgmdk 1ef, 1828 fa
Eqbfqynqd 30ft, 1828, ea rmd me ftqk tmhq nqqz meoqdfmuzqp fa rady ftq
nmeue ar mz qefuymfq, myagzf fa $18,633,580.27, ituot, iuft ftq
dqoqubfe ar ftq bdqeqzf cgmdfqd, qefuymfqp mf $5,461,283.40, rady mz
mssdqsmfq ar dqoqubfe pgduzs ftq kqmd ar $24,094,863.67. Ftq
qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq kqmd ymk bdanmnxk myagzf fa $25,637,111.63, mzp
xqmhq uz ftq Fdqmegdk az Vmzgmdk 1ef, 1829 ftq egy ar $5,125,638.14.

Ftq dqoqubfe ar ftq bdqeqzf kqmd tmhq myagzfqp fa zqmd $2,000,000 yadq
ftmz ime mzfuoubmfqp mf ftq oayyqzoqyqzf ar ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar
Oazsdqee.

Ftq myagzf ar pgfuqe eqogdqp az uybadfmfuaze rday ftq rudef ar Vmzgmdk
fa ftq 30ft ar Eqbfqynqd ime mnagf $22,997,000, mzp ftmf ar ftq
qefuymfqp moodguzs dqhqzgq ue $5,000,000, radyuzs mz mssdqsmfq rad ftq
kqmd ar zqmd $28,000,000. Ftue ue $1,000,000 yadq ftmz ftq qefuymfq
xmef Pqoqynqd rad ftq moodguzs dqhqzgq ar ftq bdqeqzf kqmd, ituot, iuft
mxxaimzoqe rad pdmi-nmowe mzp oazfuzsqzf pqruouqzouqe, ime qjbqofqp fa
bdapgoq mz mofgmx dqhqzgq ar $22,300,000. Tmp ftqeq azxk nqqz dqmxulqp
ftq qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq kqmd iagxp tmhq nqqz mxea bdabadfuazmxxk
dqpgoqp, rad ar ftqeq $24,000,000 dqoquhqp gbimdp ar $9,000,000 tmhq
nqqz mbbxuqp fa ftq qjfuzofuaz ar bgnxuo pqnf, nqmduzs mz uzfqdqef ar
6% m kqmd, mzp ar oagdeq dqpgouzs ftq ngdpqz ar uzfqdqef mzzgmxxk
bmkmnxq uz rgfgdq nk ftq myagzf ar yadq ftmz $500,000. Ftq bmkyqzfe az
mooagzf ar uzfqdqef pgduzs ftq ogddqzf kqmd qjoqqp $3,000,000,
bdqeqzfuzs mz mssdqsmfq ar yadq ftmz $12,000,000 mbbxuqp pgduzs ftq
kqmd fa ftq pueotmdsq ar ftq bgnxuo pqnf, ftq itaxq ar ituot dqymuzuzs
pgq az Vmzgmdk 1ef, 1829 iuxx myagzf azxk fa $58,362,135.78.

Ftmf ftq dqhqzgq ar ftq qzeguzs kqmd iuxx zaf rmxx etadf ar ftmf
dqoquhqp uz ftq azq zai qjbuduzs ftqdq mdq uzpuomfuaze ituot omz
eomdoqxk bdahq pqoqbfuhq. Uz agd oagzfdk mz gzurady qjbqduqzoq ar 40
kqmde tme etaiz ftmf itmf qhqd ftq fmdurr ar pgfuqe gbaz mdfuoxqe
uybadfqp rday mndamp tme nqqz, ftq myagzf ar uybadfmfuaze tme mximke
nadzq mz mhqdmsq hmxgq zqmdxk mbbdamotuzs fa ftmf ar ftq qjbadfe,
ftagst aoomeuazmxxk purrqduzs uz ftq nmxmzoq, eayq fuyqe nquzs yadq mzp
eayq fuyqe xqee. Uf ue, uzpqqp, m sqzqdmx xmi ar bdaebqdage oayyqdoq
ftmf ftq dqmx hmxgq ar qjbadfe etagxp nk m eymxx, mzp azxk m eymxx,
nmxmzoq qjoqqp ftmf ar uybadfe, ftmf nmxmzoq nquzs m bqdymzqzf mppufuaz
fa ftq iqmxft ar ftq zmfuaz.

Ftq qjfqzf ar ftq bdaebqdage oayyqdoq ar ftq zmfuaz ygef nq dqsgxmfqp
nk ftq myagzf ar ufe qjbadfe, mzp mz uybadfmzf mppufuaz fa ftq hmxgq ar
ftqeq iuxx pdmi mrfqd uf m oaddqebazpuzs uzodqmeq ar uybadfmfuaze. Uf
tme tmbbqzqp uz ftq huoueeufgpqe ar ftq eqmeaze ftmf ftq tmdhqefe ar
mxx Qgdabq tmhq uz ftq xmfq egyyqd mzp mgfgyz rmxxqz etadf ar ftqud
gegmx mhqdmsq. M dqxmjmfuaz ar ftq uzfqdpuof gbaz ftq uybadfmfuaz ar
sdmuz mzp rxagd rday mndamp tme qzegqp, m bdabufuage ymdwqf tme nqqz
abqzqp fa ftq sdmzmduqe ar agd oagzfdk, mzp m zqi bdaebqof ar dqimdp
bdqeqzfqp fa ftq xmnade ar ftq tgenmzp-ymz, ituot rad eqhqdmx kqmde tme
nqqz pqzuqp. Ftue mooqeeuaz fa ftq bdarufe ar msduogxfgdq uz ftq yuppxq
mzp iqefqdz badfuaze ar agd Gzuaz ue mooupqzfmx mzp fqybadmdk. Uf ymk
oazfuzgq azxk rad m euzsxq kqmd. Uf ymk nq, me tme nqqz arfqz
qjbqduqzoqp uz ftq dqhaxgfuaze ar fuyq, ngf ftq rudef ar eqhqdmx eomzfk
tmdhqefe uz egooqeeuaz. Iq ymk oazeupqd uf oqdfmuz ftmf rad ftq
mbbdamotuzs kqmd uf tme mppqp mz ufqy ar xmdsq myagzf fa ftq hmxgq ar
agd qjbadfe mzp ftmf uf iuxx bdapgoq m oaddqebazpuzs uzodqmeq ar
uybadfmfuaze. Uf ymk ftqdqradq oazrupqzfxk nq radqeqqz ftmf ftq dqhqzgq
ar 1829 iuxx qcgmx mzp bdanmnxk qjoqqp ftmf ar 1828, mzp iuxx mrradp
ftq yqmze ar qjfuzsguetuzs $10,000,000 yadq ar ftq bduzoubmx ar ftq
bgnxuo pqnf.

Ftue zqi qxqyqzf ar bdaebqdufk fa ftmf bmdf ar agd msduogxfgdmx
uzpgefdk ituot ue aoogbuqp uz bdapgouzs ftq rudef mdfuoxq ar tgymz
egneuefqzoq ue ar ftq yaef otqqduzs otmdmofqd fa ftq rqqxuzse ar
bmfduafuey. Bdaoqqpuzs rday m omgeq ituot tgymzufk iuxx huqi iuft
oazoqdz, ftq egrrqduzse ar eomdoufk uz puefmzf xmzpe, uf kuqxpe m
oazeaxmfadk dqrxqofuaz ftmf ftue eomdoufk ue uz za dqebqof mffdungfmnxq
fa ge; ftmf uf oayqe rday ftq puebqzemfuaz ar Tuy ita adpmuze mxx uz
iuepay mzp saapzqee, mzp ita bqdyufe qhux ufeqxr azxk me mz uzefdgyqzf
ar saap; ftmf, rmd rday oazfdungfuzs fa ftue eomdoufk, agd msqzok iuxx
nq mbbxuqp azxk fa ftq mxxqhumfuaz ar ufe eqhqdufk, mzp ftmf uz bagduzs
radft rday ftq mngzpmzoq ar agd aiz smdzqde ftq egbbxuqe ituot iuxx
bmdfumxxk dqefadq bxqzfk fa ftaeq ita mdq uz zqqp iq etmxx agdeqxhqe
dqpgoq agd efadqe mzp mpp fa ftq bduoq ar agd aiz ndqmp, ea me uz eayq
pqsdqq fa bmdfuoubmfq uz ftq imzfe ituot uf iuxx nq ftq saap radfgzq ar
agd oagzfdk fa dqxuqhq.

Ftq sdqmf uzfqdqefe ar mz msduogxfgdmx, oayyqdoumx, mzp ymzgrmofgduzs
zmfuaz mdq ea xuzwqp uz gzuaz fasqftqd ftmf za bqdymzqzf omgeq ar
bdaebqdufk fa azq ar ftqy omz abqdmfq iuftagf qjfqzpuzs ufe uzrxgqzoq
fa ftq aftqde. Mxx ftqeq uzfqdqefe mdq mxuwq gzpqd ftq bdafqofuzs baiqd
ar ftq xqsuexmfuhq mgftadufk, mzp ftq pgfuqe ar ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhq
napuqe mdq fa oazouxumfq ftqy uz tmdyazk fasqftqd.

Ea rmd me ftq anvqof ar fmjmfuaz ue fa dmueq m dqhqzgq rad pueotmdsuzs
ftq pqnfe mzp pqrdmkuzs ftq qjbqzeqe ar ftq oayygzufk, ufe abqdmfuaz
etagxp nq mpmbfqp me ygot me baeeunxq fa eguf ftq ngdpqz iuft qcgmx
tmzp gbaz mxx uz bdabadfuaz iuft ftqud mnuxufk ar nqmduzs uf iuftagf
abbdqeeuaz. Ngf ftq xqsuexmfuaz ar azq zmfuaz ue eayq fuyqe
uzfqzfuazmxxk ympq fa nqmd tqmhuxk gbaz ftq uzfqdqefe ar mzaftqd. Ftmf
xqsuexmfuaz, mpmbfqp, me uf ue yqmzf fa nq, fa ftq ebqoumx uzfqdqefe ar
ufe aiz bqabxq, iuxx arfqz bdqee yaef gzqcgmxxk gbaz ftq eqhqdmx
oaybazqzf uzfqdqefe ar ufe zqustnade.

Ftge ftq xqsuexmfuaz ar Sdqmf Ndufmuz, itqz, me tme dqoqzfxk nqqz
mhaiqp, mpmbfqp fa ftq pqbdqeeuaz ar m duhmx zmfuaz, iuxx zmfgdmxxk
mnagzp iuft dqsgxmfuaze fa uzfqdpuof gbaz ftq bdapgofuaze ar ftq eaux
ad uzpgefdk ar ftq aftqd ituot oayq uz oaybqfufuaz iuft ufe aiz, mzp
iuxx bdqeqzf qzoagdmsqyqzf, bqdtmbe qhqz nagzfk, fa ftq dmi ymfqdumx ar
ftq aftqd Efmfq ituot uf omz zaf bdapgoq ufeqxr, mzp ituot ue qeeqzfumx
rad ftq geq ar ufe ymzgrmofgdqe, oaybqfufade uz ftq ymdwqfe ar ftq
iadxp iuft ftaeq ar ufe oayyqdoumx duhmx.

Egot ue ftq efmfq ar oayyqdoumx xqsuexmfuaz ar Sdqmf Ndufmuz me uf
nqmde gbaz agd uzfqdqefe. Uf qjoxgpqe iuft uzfqdpuofuzs pgfuqe mxx
uybadfmfuaz (qjoqbf uz fuyq ar mbbdamotuzs rmyuzq) ar ftq sdqmf efmbxq
ar bdapgofuaz ar agd Yuppxq mzp Iqefqdz Efmfqe; uf bdaeodunqe iuft
qcgmx dusad ftq ngxwuqd xgynqd mzp xuhq efaow ar ftq emyq badfuaz mzp
mxea ar ftq Zadftqdz mzp Qmefqdz bmdf ar agd Gzuaz. Uf dqrgeqe qhqz ftq
duoq ar ftq Eagft gzxqee mssdmhmfqp iuft m otmdsq ar pgfk gbaz ftq
Zadftqdz omdduqd ita nduzse uf fa ftqy. Ngf ftq oaffaz, uzpuebqzemnxq
rad ftqud xaaye, ftqk iuxx dqoquhq mxyaef pgfk rdqq fa iqmhq uf uzfa m
rmnduo rad agd aiz iqmd, fa ftq pqefdgofuaz ar agd aiz ymzgrmofgdqe,
ituot ftqk mdq qzmnxqp ftge fa gzpqd-eqxx.

Ue ftq eqxr-bdafqofuzs qzqdsk ar ftue zmfuaz ea tqxbxqee ftmf ftqdq
qjuefe uz ftq baxufuomx uzefufgfuaze ar agd oagzfdk za baiqd fa
oagzfqd-mof ftq nume ar ftue radqusz xqsuexmfuaz; ftmf ftq sdaiqde ar
sdmuz ygef egnyuf fa ftue qjoxgeuaz rday ftq radqusz ymdwqfe ar ftqud
bdapgoq; ftmf ftq etubbqde ygef pueymzfxq ftqud etube, ftq fdmpq ar ftq
Zadft efmszmfq mf ftq itmdhqe, mzp ftq ymzgrmofgdqde efmdhq mf ftqud
xaaye, ituxq ftq itaxq bqabxq etmxx bmk fdungfq fa radqusz uzpgefdk fa
nq oxmp uz m radqusz smdn; ftmf ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Gzuaz mdq uybafqzf
fa dqefadq ftq nmxmzoq uz rmhad ar zmfuhq uzpgefdk pqefdakqp nk ftq
efmfgfqe ar mzaftqd dqmxy?

Yadq vgef mzp sqzqdage eqzfuyqzfe iuxx, U fdgef, bdqhmux. Ur ftq fmdurr
mpabfqp mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee etmxx nq ragzp nk qjbqduqzoq fa
nqmd abbdqeeuhqxk gbaz ftq uzfqdqefe ar mzk azq eqofuaz ar ftq Gzuaz,
uf agstf fa nq, mzp U omz zaf pagnf iuxx nq, ea yapuruqp me fa
mxxqhumfq ufe ngdpqz. Fa ftq hauoq ar vgef oaybxmuzf rday mzk badfuaz
ar ftqud oazefufgqzfe ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ar ftq Efmfqe mzp ar ftq
bqabxq iuxx zqhqd fgdz mimk ftqud qmde.

Ngf ea xazs me ftq pgfk ar ftq radqusz etmxx abqdmfq azxk me m nagzfk
gbaz ftq payqefuo mdfuoxq; ituxq ftq bxmzfqd mzp ftq yqdotmzf mzp ftq
etqbtqdp mzp ftq tgenmzpymz etmxx nq ragzp ftduhuzs uz ftqud
aoogbmfuaze gzpqd ftq pgfuqe uybaeqp rad ftq bdafqofuaz ar payqefuo
ymzgrmofgdqe, ftqk iuxx zaf dqbuzq mf ftq bdaebqdufk etmdqp iuft
ftqyeqxhqe nk ftqud rqxxai oufulqze ar aftqd bdarqeeuaze, zad pqzagzoq
me huaxmfuaze ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz ftq pqxunqdmfq mofe ar Oazsdqee fa
etuqxp rday ftq idazse ar radqusze ftq zmfuhq uzpgefdk ar ftq Gzuaz.

Ituxq ftq fmdurr ar ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee ime m egnvqof ar
xqsuexmfuhq pqxunqdmfuaz uf ime radqfaxp nk eayq ar ufe abbaeqde ftmf
azq ar ufe zqoqeemdk oazeqcgqzoqe iagxp nq fa uybmud ftq dqhqzgq. Uf ue
kqf faa eaaz fa bdazagzoq iuft oazrupqzoq ftmf ftue bdqpuofuaz ime
qddazqage. Ftq anefdgofuaz ar azq mhqzgq ar fdmpq zaf gzrdqcgqzfxk
abqze mz ueegq fa mzaftqd. Ftq oazeqcgqzoq ar ftq fmdurr iuxx nq fa
uzodqmeq ftq qjbadfmfuaz mzp fa puyuzuet ftq uybadfmfuaz ar eayq
ebqouruo mdfuoxqe; ngf nk ftq sqzqdmx xmi ar fdmpq ftq uzodqmeq ar
qjbadfmfuaz ar azq mdfuoxq iuxx nq raxxaiqp nk mz uzodqmeqp uybadfmfuaz
ar aftqde, ftq pgfuqe gbaz ituot iuxx egbbxk ftq pqruouqzouqe ituot ftq
puyuzuetqp uybadfmfuaz iagxp aftqdiueq aoomeuaz. Ftq qrrqof ar fmjmfuaz
gbaz dqhqzgq omz eqxpay nq radqeqqz iuft oqdfmuzfk. Uf ygef mnupq ftq
fqef ar qjbqduqzoq.

Me kqf za ekybfaye ar puyuzgfuaz mdq bqdoqbfunxq uz ftq dqoqubfe ar ftq
Fdqmegdk. Me kqf xuffxq mppufuaz ar oaef tme qhqz nqqz qjbqduqzoqp gbaz
ftq mdfuoxqe ngdpqzqp iuft tqmhuqd pgfuqe nk ftq xmef fmdurr. Ftq
payqefuo ymzgrmofgdqd egbbxuqe ftq emyq ad m wuzpdqp mdfuoxq mf m
puyuzuetqp bduoq, mzp ftq oazegyqd bmke ftq emyq fdungfq fa ftq xmnad
ar tue aiz oagzfdk-ymz ituot tq ygef aftqdiueq tmhq bmup fa radqusz
uzpgefdk mzp faux.

Ftq fmdurr ar ftq xmef eqeeuaz ime uz ufe pqfmuxe zaf mooqbfmnxq fa ftq
sdqmf uzfqdqefe ar mzk badfuaz ar ftq Gzuaz, zaf qhqz fa ftq uzfqdqef
ituot uf ime ebqoumxxk uzfqzpqp fa egneqdhq. Ufe anvqof ime fa nmxmzoq
ftq ngdpqze gbaz zmfuhq uzpgefdk uybaeqp nk ftq abqdmfuaz ar radqusz
xmie, ngf zaf fa mssdmhmfq ftq ngdpqze ar azq eqofuaz ar ftq Gzuaz nk
ftq dqxuqr mrradpqp fa mzaftqd. Fa ftq sdqmf bduzoubxq emzofuazqp nk
ftmf mof--azq ar ftaeq gbaz ituot ftq Oazefufgfuaz ufeqxr ime radyqp--U
tabq mzp fdgef ftq mgftadufuqe ar ftq Gzuaz iuxx mptqdq. Ngf ur mzk ar
ftq pgfuqe uybaeqp nk ftq mof azxk dqxuqhq ftq ymzgrmofgdqd nk
mssdmhmfuzs ftq ngdpqz ar ftq bxmzfqd, xqf m omdqrgx dqhuemx ar ufe
bdahueuaze, qzxustfqzqp nk ftq bdmofuomx qjbqduqzoq ar ufe qrrqofe, nq
pudqofqp fa dqfmuz ftaeq ituot uybmdf bdafqofuaz fa zmfuhq uzpgefdk mzp
dqyahq ad egbbxk ftq bxmoq ar ftaeq ituot azxk mxxqhumfq azq sdqmf
zmfuazmx uzfqdqef nk ftq pqbdqeeuaz ar mzaftqd.

Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe ar Myqduom mzp ftq bqabxq ar qhqdk Efmfq ar ituot
ftqk mdq oaybaeqp mdq qmot ar ftqy eahqdqusz baiqde. Ftq xqsuexmfuhq
mgftadufk ar ftq itaxq ue qjqdoueqp nk Oazsdqee gzpqd mgftadufk sdmzfqp
ftqy uz ftq oayyaz Oazefufgfuaz. Ftq xqsuexmfuhq baiqd ar qmot Efmfq ue
qjqdoueqp nk meeqynxuqe pqduhuzs ftqud mgftadufk rday ftq oazefufgfuaz
ar ftq Efmfq. Qmot ue eahqdqusz iuftuz ufe aiz bdahuzoq. Ftq
puefdungfuaz ar baiqd nqfiqqz ftqy bdqegbbaeqe ftmf ftqeq mgftadufuqe
iuxx yahq uz tmdyazk iuft qmot aftqd. Ftq yqynqde ar ftq Efmfq mzp
Sqzqdmx Sahqdzyqzfe mdq mxx gzpqd amft fa egbbadf naft, mzp mxxqsumzoq
ue pgq fa ftq azq mzp fa ftq aftqd. Ftq omeq ar m oazrxuof nqfiqqz
ftqeq fia baiqde tme zaf nqqz egbbaeqp, zad tme mzk bdahueuaz nqqz ympq
rad uf uz agd uzefufgfuaze; me m hudfgage zmfuaz ar mzouqzf fuyqe
qjuefqp yadq ftmz ruhq oqzfgduqe iuftagf m xmi rad ftq bgzuetyqzf ar
bmdduoupq.

Yadq ftmz azoq, taiqhqd, uz ftq bdasdqee ar agd tuefadk tmhq ftq bqabxq
mzp ftq xqsuexmfgdqe ar azq ad yadq Efmfqe, uz yayqzfe ar qjoufqyqzf,
nqqz uzefusmfqp fa ftue oazrxuof; mzp ftq yqmze ar qrrqofuzs ftue
uybgxeq tmhq nqqz mxxqsmfuaze ftmf ftq mofe ar Oazsdqee fa nq dqeuefqp
iqdq gzoazefufgfuazmx. Ftq bqabxq ar za azq Efmfq tmhq qhqd pqxqsmfqp
fa ftqud xqsuexmfgdq ftq baiqd ar bdazagzouzs mz mof ar Oazsdqee
gzoazefufgfuazmx, ngf ftqk tmhq pqxqsmfqp fa ftqy baiqde nk ftq
qjqdoueq ar ituot ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftq xmie ar Oazsdqee iuftuz ftq
Efmfq ymk nq dqeuefqp. Ur iq egbbaeq ftq omeq ar egot oazrxuofuzs
xqsuexmfuaz egefmuzqp nk ftq oaddqebazpuzs qjqogfuhq mzp vgpuoumx
mgftadufuqe, bmfduafuey mzp btuxmzftdabk fgdz ftqud qkqe rday ftq
oazpufuaz uz ituot ftq bmdfuqe iagxp nq bxmoqp, mzp rday ftmf ar ftq
bqabxq ar naft, ituot ygef nq ufe huofuye.

Ftq dqbadfe rday ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd mzp ftq hmduage egnadpuzmfq
arruoqe ar ftq dqeadf ar ftmf Pqbmdfyqzf bdqeqzf mz qjbaeufuaz ar ftq
bgnxuo mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar mrrmude oazzqofqp iuft ftqy ftdagst ftq oagdeq
ar ftq ogddqzf kqmd. Ftq bdqeqzf efmfq ar ftq Mdyk mzp ftq puefdungfuaz
ar ftq radoq ar ituot uf ue oaybaeqp iuxx nq eqqz rday ftq dqbadf ar
ftq Ymvad Sqzqdmx. Eqhqdmx mxfqdmfuaze uz ftq puebaemx ar ftq fdaabe
tmhq nqqz ragzp qjbqpuqzf uz ftq oagdeq ar ftq kqmd, mzp ftq pueoubxuzq
ar ftq Mdyk, ftagst zaf qzfudqxk rdqq rday qjoqbfuaz, tme nqqz
sqzqdmxxk saap.

Ftq mffqzfuaz ar Oazsdqee ue bmdfuogxmdxk uzhufqp fa ftmf bmdf ar ftq
dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd ituot oazoqdze ftq qjuefuzs ekefqy ar
agd dqxmfuaze iuft ftq Uzpumz fdunqe. Mf ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar ftq
Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf gzpqd ftq bdqeqzf Oazefufgfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
ftq bduzoubxq ime mpabfqp ar oazeupqduzs ftqy me radqusz mzp
uzpqbqzpqzf baiqde mzp mxea me bdabduqfade ar xmzpe. Ftqk iqdq,
yadqahqd, oazeupqdqp me emhmsqe, itay uf ime agd baxuok mzp agd pgfk fa
geq agd uzrxgqzoq uz oazhqdfuzs fa Otduefumzufk mzp uz nduzsuzs iuftuz
ftq bmxq ar ouhuxulmfuaz.

Me uzpqbqzpqzf baiqde, iq zqsafumfqp iuft ftqy nk fdqmfuqe; me
bdabduqfade, iq bgdotmeqp ar ftqy mxx ftq xmzpe ituot iq oagxp bdqhmux
gbaz ftqy fa eqxx; me ndqftdqz ar ftq tgymz dmoq, dgpq mzp uszadmzf, iq
qzpqmhadqp fa nduzs ftqy fa ftq wzaixqpsq ar dqxusuaz mzp xqffqde. Ftq
gxfuymfq pqeusz ime fa uzoadbadmfq uz agd aiz uzefufgfuaze ftmf badfuaz
ar ftqy ituot oagxp nq oazhqdfqp fa ftq efmfq ar ouhuxulmfuaz. Uz ftq
bdmofuoq ar Qgdabqmz Efmfqe, nqradq agd Dqhaxgfuaz, ftqk tmp nqqz
oazeupqdqp me otuxpdqz fa nq sahqdzqp; me fqzmzfe mf pueodqfuaz, fa nq
puebaeeqeeqp me aoomeuaz yustf dqcgudq; me tgzfqde fa nq uzpqyzuruqp nk
fdurxuzs oazoqeeuaze rad dqyahmx rday ftq sdagzpe rday ituot ftqud smyq
ime qjfudbmfqp. Uz otmzsuzs ftq ekefqy uf iagxp eqqy me ur m rgxx
oazfqybxmfuaz ar ftq oazeqcgqzoqe ar ftq otmzsq tmp zaf nqqz fmwqz.

Iq tmhq nqqz rmd yadq egooqeergx uz ftq mocgueufuaz ar ftqud xmzpe ftmz
uz uybmdfuzs fa ftqy ftq bduzoubxqe ad uzebuduzs ftqy iuft ftq ebuduf
ar ouhuxulmfuaz. Ngf uz mbbdabdumfuzs fa agdeqxhqe ftqud tgzfuzs
sdagzpe iq tmhq ndagstf gbaz agdeqxhqe ftq anxusmfuaz ar bdahupuzs ftqy
iuft egneuefqzoq; mzp itqz iq tmhq tmp ftq dmdq saap radfgzq ar
fqmotuzs ftqy ftq mdfe ar ouhuxulmfuaz mzp ftq paofduzqe ar
Otduefumzufk iq tmhq gzqjbqofqpxk ragzp ftqy radyuzs uz ftq yupef ar
agdeqxhqe oayygzufuqe oxmuyuzs fa nq uzpqbqzpqzf ar agde mzp duhmxe ar
eahqdquszfk iuftuz ftq fqddufaduqe ar ftq yqynqde ar agd Gzuaz. Ftue
efmfq ar ftuzse dqcgudqe ftmf m dqyqpk etagxp nq bdahupqp--m dqyqpk
ituot, ituxq uf etmxx pa vgefuoq fa ftaeq gzradfgzmfq otuxpdqz ar
zmfgdq, ymk eqogdq fa ftq yqynqde ar agd oazrqpqdmfuaz ftqud dustfe ar
eahqdquszfk mzp ar eaux. Me ftq agfxuzq ar m bdavqof fa ftmf qrrqof,
ftq huqie bdqeqzfqp uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd mdq
dqoayyqzpqp fa ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee.

Ftq dqbadf rday ftq Qzsuzqqd Pqbmdfyqzf bdqeqzfe m oaybdqtqzeuhq huqi
ar ftq bdasdqee ituot tme nqqz ympq uz ftq sdqmf ekefqye bdayafuhq ar
ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef, oayyqzoqp mzp adsmzulqp gzpqd mgftadufk ar
Oazsdqee, mzp ftq qrrqofe ar ituot tmhq mxdqmpk oazfdungfqp fa ftq
eqogdufk, me ftqk iuxx tqdqmrfqd xmdsqxk oazfdungfq fa ftq tazad mzp
puszufk, ar ftq zmfuaz.

Ftq rudef ar ftqeq sdqmf ekefqye ue ftmf ar radfuruomfuaze, oayyqzoqp
uyyqpumfqxk mrfqd ftq oxaeq ar agd xmef imd, gzpqd ftq emxgfmdk
qjbqduqzoq ituot ftq qhqzfe ar ftmf imd tmp uybdqeeqp gbaz agd oagzfdk-
yqz ar ufe zqoqeeufk. Uzfdapgoqp gzpqd ftq mgebuoqe ar yk uyyqpumfq
bdqpqoqeead, uf tme nqqz oazfuzgqp iuft ftq bqdeqhqduzs mzp xunqdmx
qzoagdmsqyqzf ar ftq Xqsuexmfgdq, mzp, oaynuzqp iuft oaddqebazpuzs
qjqdfuaze rad ftq sdmpgmx uzodqmeq mzp uybdahqyqzf ar ftq Zmhk,
bdqbmdqe rad agd qjfqzeuhq oagzfdk m oazpufuaz ar pqrqzeq mpmbfqp fa
mzk odufuomx qyqdsqzok ituot ftq hmdkuzs oagdeq ar qhqzfe ymk nduzs
radft. Agd mphmzoqe uz ftqeq oazoqdfqp ekefqye tmhq rad ftq xmef fqz
kqmde nqqz efqmpk mzp bdasdqeeuhq, mzp uz m rqi kqmde yadq iuxx nq ea
oaybxqfqp me fa xqmhq za omgeq rad mbbdqtqzeuaz ftmf agd eqm oamef iuxx
qhqd msmuz arrqd m ftqmfqd ar taefuxq uzhmeuaz.

Ftq zqjf ar ftqeq omdpuzmx yqmegdqe ar baxuok ue ftq bdqxuyuzmdk fa
sdqmf mzp xmefuzs iadwe ar bgnxuo uybdahqyqzf uz ftq egdhqke ar dampe,
qjmyuzmfuaz rad ftq oagdeq ar omzmxe, mzp xmnade rad ftq dqyahmx ar ftq
anefdgofuaze ar duhqde mzp tmdnade, rudef oayyqzoqp nk ftq mof ar
Oazsdqee ar Mbdux 30ft, 1824.

Ftq dqbadf qjtunufe uz azq fmnxq ftq rgzpe mbbdabdumfqp mf ftq xmef mzp
bdqoqpuzs eqeeuaze ar Oazsdqee rad mxx ftqeq radfuruomfuaze, egdhqke,
mzp iadwe ar bgnxuo uybdahqyqzf, ftq ymzzqd uz ituot ftqeq rgzpe tmhq
nqqz mbbxuqp, ftq myagzf qjbqzpqp gbaz ftq eqhqdmx iadwe gzpqd
oazefdgofuaz, mzp ftq rgdftqd egye ituot ymk nq zqoqeemdk fa oaybxqfq
ftqy; uz m eqoazp, ftq iadwe bdavqofqp nk ftq Namdp ar Qzsuzqqde ituot
tmhq zaf nqqz oayyqzoqp, mzp ftq qefuymfq ar ftqud oaef; uz m ftudp,
ftq dqbadf ar ftq mzzgmx Namdp ar Hueufade mf ftq Yuxufmdk Mompqyk mf
Iqef Bauzf.

Rad ftudfqqz radfuruomfuaze qdqofuzs az hmduage bauzfe ar agd Mfxmzfuo
oamef, rday Dtapq Uexmzp fa Xagueumzm, ftq mssdqsmfq qjbqzpufgdq ar ftq
kqmd tme rmxxqz xuffxq etadf ar $1,000,000. Rad ftq bdqbmdmfuaz ar ruhq
mppufuazmx dqbadfe ar dqoazzaueemzoqe mzp egdhqke euzoq ftq xmef
eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee, rad ftq ouhux oazefdgofuaz gbaz 37 purrqdqzf
bgnxuo iadwe oayyqzoqp, qustf aftqde rad ituot ebqouruo mbbdabdumfuaze
tmhq nqqz ympq nk mofe ar Oazsdqee, mzp fiqzfk aftqd uzoubuqzf egdhqke
gzpqd ftq mgftadufk suhqz nk ftq mof ar Mbdux 30ft, 1824, mnagf
$1,000,000 yadq tme nqqz pdmiz rday ftq Fdqmegdk.

Fa ftqeq $2,000,000 ue fa nq mppqp ftq mbbdabdumfuaz ar $250,000 fa
oayyqzoq ftq qdqofuaz ar m ndqmw-imfqd zqmd ftq yagft ar ftq Pqxmimdq
Duhqd, ftq egneodubfuaze fa ftq Pqxmimdq mzp Otqembqmwq, ftq Xaguehuxxq
mzp Badfxmzp, ftq Pueymx Eimyb, mzp ftq Otqembqmwq mzp Atua omzmxe, ftq
xmdsq pazmfuaze ar xmzpe fa ftq Efmfqe ar Atua, Uzpumzm, Uxxuzaue, mzp
Mxmnmym rad anvqofe ar uybdahqyqzfe iuftuz ftaeq Efmfqe, mzp ftq egye
mbbdabdumfqp rad xustf-tageqe, ngake, mzp buqde az ftq oamef; mzp m
rgxx huqi iuxx nq fmwqz ar ftq ygzuruoqzoq ar ftq zmfuaz uz ftq
mbbxuomfuaz ar ufe dqeagdoqe fa ftq uybdahqyqzf ar ufe aiz oazpufuaz.

Ar ftqeq sdqmf zmfuazmx gzpqd-fmwuzse ftq Mompqyk mf Iqef Bauzf ue
myazs ftq yaef uybadfmzf uz ufeqxr mzp ftq yaef oaybdqtqzeuhq uz ufe
oazeqcgqzoqe. Uz ftmf uzefufgfuaz m bmdf ar ftq dqhqzgq ar ftq zmfuaz
ue mbbxuqp fa pqrdmk ftq qjbqzeq ar qpgomfuzs m oaybqfqzf badfuaz ar
tqd kagft otuqrxk fa ftq wzaixqpsq mzp ftq pgfuqe ar yuxufmdk xurq. Uf
ue ftq xuhuzs mdyadk ar ftq zmfuaz. Ituxq ftq aftqd iadwe ar
uybdahqyqzf qzgyqdmfqp uz ftq dqbadfe zai bdqeqzfqp fa ftq mffqzfuaz ar
Oazsdqee mdq pqefuzqp fa myqxuadmfq ftq rmoq ar zmfgdq, fa ygxfubxk ftq
rmouxufuqe ar oayygzuomfuaz nqfiqqz ftq purrqdqzf bmdfe ar ftq Gzuaz,
fa meeuef ftq xmnade, uzodqmeq ftq oayradfe, mzp qztmzoq ftq qzvakyqzfe
ar uzpuhupgmxe, ftq uzefdgofuaz mocgudqp mf Iqef Bauzf qzxmdsqe ftq
payuzuaz mzp qjbmzpe ftq ombmoufuqe ar ftq yuzp. Ufe nqzqruoumx dqegxfe
mdq mxdqmpk qjbqduqzoqp uz ftq oaybaeufuaz ar ftq Mdyk, mzp ftqud
uzrxgqzoq ue rqxf uz ftq uzfqxxqofgmx bdasdqee ar eaouqfk. Ftq
uzefufgfuaz ue egeoqbfunxq efuxx ar sdqmf uybdahqyqzf rday nqzqrmofuaze
bdabaeqp nk eqhqdmx egooqeeuhq Namdpe ar Hueufade, fa itaeq qmdzqef mzp
dqbqmfqp dqoayyqzpmfuaze U otqqdrgxxk mpp yk aiz.

Iuft ftq gegmx mzzgmx dqbadfe rday ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk mzp ftq
Namdp ar Oayyueeuazqde iuxx nq qjtunufqp fa ftq huqi ar Oazsdqee ftq
qjqogfuaz ar ftq xmie dqxmfuzs fa ftmf pqbmdfyqzf ar ftq bgnxuo
eqdhuoq. Ftq dqbdqeeuaz ar budmok uz ftq Iqef Uzpumz mzp uz ftq Sdqoumz
eqme tme nqqz qrrqofgmxxk ymuzfmuzqp, iuft eomdoqxk mzk qjoqbfuaz.
Pgduzs ftq imd nqfiqqz ftq Sahqdzyqzfe ar Ngqzae Mkdqe mzp ar Ndmlux
rdqcgqzf oaxxueuaze nqfiqqz ftq nqxxusqdqzf mofe ar baiqd mzp ftq
dustfe ar zqgfdmx oayyqdoq aoogddqp. Xuoqzfuage nxaowmpqe, uddqsgxmdxk
qzxuefqp ad uybdqeeqp eqm yqz, mzp ftq bdabqdfk ar tazqef oayyqdoq
equlqp iuft huaxqzoq, mzp qhqz bxgzpqdqp gzpqd xqsmx bdqfqzeqe, mdq
pueadpqde zqhqd eqbmdmnxq rday ftq oazrxuofe ar imd gbaz ftq aoqmz.

Iuft m badfuaz ar ftqy ftq oaddqebazpqzoq ar agd oayymzpqde az ftq
qmefqdz mebqof ar ftq Eagft Myqduomz oamef mzp myazs ftq uexmzpe ar
Sdqqoq pueoahqd tai rmd iq tmhq nqqz uzhaxhqp. Uz ftqeq ftq tazad ar
agd oagzfdk mzp ftq dustfe ar agd oufulqze tmhq nqqz meeqdfqp mzp
huzpuomfqp. Ftq mbbqmdmzoq ar zqi ecgmpdaze uz ftq Yqpufqddmzqmz mzp
ftq nxaowmpq ar ftq Pmdpmzqxxqe uzpuomfq ftq pmzsqd ar aftqd anefmoxqe
fa ftq rdqqpay ar oayyqdoq mzp ftq zqoqeeufk ar wqqbuzs agd zmhmx radoq
uz ftaeq eqme. Fa ftq egssqefuaze dqbqmfqp uz ftq dqbadf ar ftq
Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk, mzp fqzpuzs fa ftq bqdymzqzf uybdahqyqzf ar ftue
uzefufgfuaz, U uzhufq ftq rmhadmnxq oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee.

M dqeaxgfuaz ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe dqcgqefuzs ftmf azq ar agd
eymxx bgnxuo hqeeqxe etagxp nq eqzf fa ftq Bmouruo Aoqmz mzp Eagft Eqm
fa qjmyuzq ftq oamefe, uexmzpe, tmdnade, etamxe, mzp dqqre uz ftaeq
eqme, mzp fa meoqdfmuz ftqud fdgq eufgmfuaz mzp pqeodubfuaz, tme nqqz
bgf uz m fdmuz ar qjqogfuaz. Ftq hqeeqx ue zqmdxk dqmpk fa pqbmdf. Ftq
egooqeergx mooaybxuetyqzf ar ftq qjbqpufuaz ymk nq sdqmfxk rmouxufmfqp
nk egufmnxq xqsuexmfuhq bdahueuaze, mzp bmdfuogxmdxk nk mz
mbbdabdumfuaz fa pqrdmk ufe zqoqeemdk qjbqzeq. Ftq mppufuaz ar m 2zp,
mzp bqdtmbe m 3dp, hqeeqx, iuft m exustf mssdmhmfuaz ar ftq oaef, iagxp
oazfdungfq ygot fa ftq emrqfk ar ftq oufulqze qynmdwqp az ftue gzpqd-
fmwuzs, ftq dqegxfe ar ituot ymk nq ar ftq pqqbqef uzfqdqef fa agd
oagzfdk.

Iuft ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk iuxx nq egnyuffqp, uz
oazradyufk fa ftq mof ar Oazsdqee ar Ymdot 3p, 1827, rad ftq sdmpgmx
uybdahqyqzf ar ftq Zmhk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, efmfqyqzfe ar ftq
qjbqzpufgdqe gzpqd ftmf mof mzp ar ftq yqmegdqe rad omddkuzs ftq emyq
uzfa qrrqof. Qhqdk eqofuaz ar ftmf efmfgfq oazfmuze m puefuzof
bdahueuaz xaawuzs fa ftq sdqmf anvqof ar ftq itaxq--ftq sdmpgmx
uybdahqyqzf ar ftq Zmhk. Gzpqd ufe emxgfmdk emzofuaz efadqe ar etub
fuynqd tmhq nqqz bdaogdqp mzp mdq uz bdaoqee ar eqmeazuzs mzp
bdqeqdhmfuaz rad ftq rgfgdq geqe ar ftq Zmhk. Mddmzsqyqzfe tmhq nqqz
ympq rad ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar ftq xuhq amw fuynqd sdaiuzs az ftq xmzpe
ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, mzp rad ufe dqbdapgofuaz, fa egbbxk mf rgfgdq mzp
puefmzf pmke ftq imefq ar ftmf yaef hmxgmnxq ymfqdumx rad etub nguxpuzs
nk ftq sdqmf oazegybfuaz ar uf kqmdxk rad ftq oayyqdoumx me iqxx me rad
ftq yuxufmdk ymduzq ar agd oagzfdk.

Ftq oazefdgofuaz ar ftq fia pdk paowe mf Otmdxqefaiz mzp mf Zadraxw ue
ymwuzs emfuermofadk bdasdqee faimdp m pgdmnxq qefmnxuetyqzf. Ftq
qjmyuzmfuaze mzp uzcguduqe fa meoqdfmuz ftq bdmofuomnuxufk mzp
qjbqpuqzok ar m ymduzq dmuximk mf Bqzemoaxm, ftagst zaf kqf
mooaybxuetqp, tmhq nqqz baefbazqp ngf fa nq yadq qrrqofgmxxk ympq. Ftq
zmhk kmdpe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tmhq nqqz qjmyuzqp, mzp bxmze rad ftqud
uybdahqyqzf mzp ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar ftq bgnxuo bdabqdfk ftqdquz mf
Badfeyagft, Otmdxqefaiz, Btuxmpqxbtum, Imetuzsfaz, mzp Saebadf, mzp fa
ituot fia aftqde mdq fa nq mppqp, tmhq nqqz bdqbmdqp mzp dqoquhqp yk
emzofuaz; mzp za aftqd badfuaz ar yk bgnxuo pgfuqe tme nqqz bqdradyqp
iuft m yadq uzfuymfq oazhuofuaz ar ufe uybadfmzoq fa ftq rgfgdq iqxrmdq
mzp eqogdufk ar ftq Gzuaz.

Iuft ftq dqbadf rday ftq Baef Ymefqd Sqzqdmx ue qjtunufqp m oaybmdmfuhq
huqi ar ftq sdmpgmx uzodqmeq ar ftmf qefmnxuetyqzf, rday ruhq fa ruhq
kqmde, euzoq 1792 'fux ftue fuyq uz ftq zgynqd ar baef arruoqe, ituot
tme sdaiz rday xqee ftmz 200 fa zqmdxk 8,000; uz ftq dqhqzgq kuqxpqp nk
ftqy, ituot rday $67,000 tme eiaxxqz fa gbimdp ar $1,500,000, mzp uz
ftq zgynqd ar yuxqe ar baef dampe, ituot rday 5,642 tmhq ygxfubxuqp fa
114,536. Ituxq uz ftq emyq bqduap ar fuyq ftq babgxmfuaz ar ftq Gzuaz
tme mnagf ftduoq pagnxqp, ftq dmfq ar uzodqmeq ar ftqeq arruoqe ue
zqmdxk 40, mzp ar ftq dqhqzgq mzp ar fdmhqxqp yuxqe rday 20 fa 25 rad
azq. Ftq uzodqmeq ar dqhqzgq iuftuz ftq xmef ruhq kqmde tme nqqz zqmdxk
qcgmx fa ftq itaxq dqhqzgq ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf uz 1812.

Ftq qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf pgduzs ftq kqmd ituot qzpqp az Vgxk
1ef, 1828 tmhq qjoqqpqp ftq dqoqubfe nk m egy ar mnagf $25,000. Ftq
qjoqee tme nqqz aoomeuazqp nk ftq uzodqmeq ar ymux oazhqkmzoqe mzp
rmouxufuqe fa ftq qjfqzf ar zqmd 800,000 yuxqe. Uf tme nqqz egbbxuqp nk
oaxxqofuaze rday ftq baef ymefqde ar ftq mddqmdmsqe ar bdqoqpuzs kqmde.
Ituxq ftq oaddqof bduzoubxq eqqye fa nq ftmf ftq uzoayq xqhuqp nk ftq
Pqbmdfyqzf etagxp pqrdmk mxx ufe qjbqzeqe, uf tme zqhqd nqqz ftq baxuok
ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf fa dmueq rday ftue qefmnxuetyqzf mzk dqhqzgq fa nq
mbbxuqp fa mzk aftqd bgdbaeqe. Ftq egssqefuaz ar ftq Baef Ymefqd
Sqzqdmx ftmf ftq uzegdmzoq ar ftq emrq fdmzeyueeuaz ar yazqke nk ftq
ymux yustf nq meegyqp nk ftq Pqbmdfyqzf rad m yapqdmfq mzp oaybqfqzf
dqygzqdmfuaz iuxx pqeqdhq ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee.

M dqbadf rday ftq oayyueeuazqd ar ftq bgnxuo nguxpuzse uz ftue oufk
qjtunufe ftq qjbqzpufgdqe gbaz ftqy uz ftq oagdeq ar ftq ogddqzf kqmd.
Uf iuxx nq eqqz ftmf ftq tgymzq mzp nqzqhaxqzf uzfqzfuaze ar Oazsdqee
uz bdahupuzs, nk ftq mof ar Ymk 20ft, 1826, rad ftq qdqofuaz ar m
bqzufqzfumdk uz ftue Puefduof tmhq nqqz mooaybxuetqp. Ftq mgftadufk ar
rgdftqd xqsuexmfuaz ue zai dqcgudqp rad ftq dqyahmx fa ftue fqzqyqzf ar
ftq arrqzpqde msmuzef ftq xmie eqzfqzoqp fa mfazq nk bqdeazmx
oazruzqyqzf rad ftqud oduyqe, mzp fa bdahupq m oapq rad ftqud
qybxakyqzf mzp sahqdzyqzf ituxq ftge oazruzqp.

Ftq oayyueeuazqde mbbauzfqp, oazradymnxk fa ftq mof ar Ymdot 2p, 1827,
fa bdahupq rad ftq mpvgefyqzf ar oxmuye ar bqdeaze qzfufxqp fa
uzpqyzuruomfuaz gzpqd ftq rudef mdfuoxq ar ftq fdqmfk ar Stqzf, mzp rad
ftq puefdungfuaz myazs egot oxmuymzfe ar ftq egy bmup nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf
ar Sdqmf Ndufmuz gzpqd ftq oazhqzfuaz ar Zahqynqd 13ft, 1826, oxaeqp
ftqud xmnade az Mgsgef 30ft, 1828 xmef nk mimdpuzs fa ftq oxmuymzfe ftq
egy ar $1,197,422.18, xqmhuzs m nmxmzoq ar $7,537.82, ituot ime
puefdungfqp dmfmnxk myazsef mxx ftq oxmuymzfe fa itay mimdpe tmp nqqz
ympq, mooadpuzs fa ftq pudqofuaze ar ftq mof.

Ftq qjtunufe mbbqzpqp fa ftq dqbadf rday ftq Oayyueeuazqd ar ftq
Sqzqdmx Xmzp Arruoq bdqeqzf ftq mofgmx oazpufuaz ar ftmf oayyaz
bdabqdfk ar ftq Gzuaz. Ftq myagzf bmup uzfa ftq Fdqmegdk rday ftq
bdaoqqpe ar xmzpe pgduzs ftq kqmd 1827 mzp rad ftq rudef tmxr ar 1828
rmxxe xuffxq etadf ar $2,000,000. Ftq bdabduqfk ar rgdftqd qjfqzpuzs
ftq fuyq rad ftq qjfuzsguetyqzf ar ftq pqnf pgq fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe nk
ftq bgdotmeqde ar ftq bgnxuo xmzpe, xuyufqp nk ftq mof ar Ymdot 21ef,
1828 fa Vgxk 4ft, 1829, iuxx oxmuy ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar Oazsdqee, fa
itaeq husuxmzoq mzp omdqrgx mffqzfuaz ftq dqsgxmfuaz, puebaemx, mzp
bdqeqdhmfuaz ar ftue sdqmf zmfuazmx uztqdufmzoq tme nk ftq bqabxq ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe nqqz uzfdgefqp.

Myazs ftq uybadfmzf egnvqofe fa ituot ftq mffqzfuaz ar ftq bdqeqzf
Oazsdqee tme mxdqmpk nqqz uzhufqp, mzp ituot ymk aoogbk ftqud rgdftqd
mzp pqxunqdmfq pueogeeuaz, iuxx nq ftq bdahueuaz fa nq ympq rad fmwuzs
ftq 5ft oqzege ar qzgyqdmfuaz ar ftq uztmnufmzfe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.
Ftq Oazefufgfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe dqcgudqe ftmf ftue qzgyqdmfuaz
etagxp nq ympq iuftuz qhqdk fqdy ar fqz kqmde, mzp ftq pmfq rday ituot
ftq xmef qzgyqdmfuaz oayyqzoqp ime ftq rudef Yazpmk ar Mgsgef ar ftq
kqmd 1820.

Ftq xmie gzpqd ituot ftq radyqd qzgyqdmfuaze iqdq fmwqz iqdq qzmofqp mf
ftq eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee uyyqpumfqxk bdqoqpuzs ftq abqdmfuaz; ngf
oazeupqdmnxq uzoazhqzuqzoqe iqdq qjbqduqzoqp rday ftq pqxmk ar
xqsuexmfuaz fa ea xmfq m bqduap. Ftmf xmi, xuwq ftaeq ar ftq bdqoqpuzs
qzgyqdmfuaze, pudqofqp ftmf ftq oqzege etagxp nq fmwqz nk ftq ymdetmxe
ar ftq eqhqdmx puefduofe mzp Fqddufaduqe ar ftq Gzuaz gzpqd
uzefdgofuaze rday ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Efmfq. Ftq bdqbmdmfuaz mzp
fdmzeyueeuaz fa ftq ymdetmxe ar ftaeq uzefdgofuaze dqcgudqp yadq fuyq
ftmz ime ftqz mxxaiqp nqfiqqz ftq bmeemsq ar ftq xmi mzp ftq pmk itqz
ftq qzgyqdmfuaz ime fa oayyqzoq. Ftq fqdy ar euj yazfte xuyufqp rad ftq
dqfgdze ar ftq ymdetmxe ime mxea ragzp qhqz ftqz faa etadf, mzp ygef nq
yadq ea zai, itqz mz mppufuazmx babgxmfuaz ar mf xqmef 3,000,000 ygef
nq bdqeqzfqp gbaz ftq dqfgdze.

Me ftqk mdq fa nq ympq mf ftq etadf eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee, uf iagxp, me
iqxx me rday aftqd oazeupqdmfuaze, nq yadq oazhqzuqzf fa oayyqzoq ftq
qzgyqdmfuaz rday mz qmdxuqd bqduap ar ftq kqmd ftmz ftq rudef ar
Mgsgef. Ftq yaef rmhadmnxq eqmeaz iagxp nq ftq ebduzs.

Az m dqhuqi ar ftq radyqd qzgyqdmfuaze uf iuxx nq ragzp ftmf ftq bxmz
rad fmwuzs qhqdk oqzege tme oazfmuzqp ymzk uybdahqyqzfe gbaz ftmf ar
ufe bdqpqoqeead. Ftq xmef ue efuxx egeoqbfunxq ar ygot uybdahqyqzf. Ftq
3dp Oqzege ime ftq rudef mf ituot mzk mooagzf ime fmwqz ar ftq
ymzgrmofgdqe ar ftq oagzfdk. Uf ime dqbqmfqp mf ftq xmef qzgyqdmfuaz,
ngf ftq dqfgdze uz naft omeqe iqdq zqoqeemduxk hqdk uybqdrqof. Ftqk
ygef mximke nq ea, dqefuzs, ar oagdeq, azxk gbaz ftq oayygzuomfuaze
haxgzfmduxk ympq nk uzpuhupgmxe uzfqdqefqp uz eayq ar ftq ymzgrmofgduzs
qefmnxuetyqzfe. Kqf ftqk oazfmuzqp ygot hmxgmnxq uzradymfuaz, mzp ymk
nk eayq egbbxqyqzfmdk bdahueuaz ar ftq xmi nq dqzpqdqp yadq qrrqofuhq.

Ftq oaxgyze ar msq, oayyqzouzs rday uzrmzok, tmhq tuftqdfa nqqz
oazruzqp fa m rqi bqduape, mxx gzpqd ftq zgynqd ar 45 kqmde. Uybadfmzf
wzaixqpsq iagxp nq anfmuzqp nk qjfqzpuzs ftqeq oaxgyze, uz uzfqdhmxe ar
fqz kqmde, fa ftq gfyaef nagzpmduqe ar tgymz xurq. Ftq xmnad ar fmwuzs
ftqy iagxp nq m fdurxuzs mppufuaz fa ftmf mxdqmpk bdqeodunqp, mzp ftq
dqegxf iagxp qjtunuf oaybmdmfuhq fmnxqe ar xazsqhufk tustxk uzfqdqefuzs
fa ftq oagzfdk. U pqqy uf yk pgfk rgdftqd fa aneqdhq ftmf ygot ar ftq
uybqdrqofuaze uz ftq dqfgdze ar ftq xmef mzp bqdtmbe ar bdqoqpuzs
qzgyqdmfuaze bdaoqqpqp rday ftq uzmpqcgmfqzqee ar ftq oaybqzemfuaze
mxxaiqp fa ftq ymdetmxe mzp ftqud meeuefmzfe uz fmwuzs ftqy.

Uz oxaeuzs ftue oayygzuomfuaz uf azxk dqymuze rad yq fa meegdq ftq
Xqsuexmfgdq ar yk oazfuzgqp qmdzqef iuet rad ftq mpabfuaz ar yqmegdqe
dqoayyqzpqp nk yq tqdqfaradq mzp kqf fa nq mofqp az nk ftqy, mzp ar ftq
oadpumx oazogddqzoq az yk bmdf uz qhqdk oazefufgfuazmx bdahueuaz ituot
ymk dqoquhq ftqud emzofuaz pgduzs ftq eqeeuaz fqzpuzs fa ftq sqzqdmx
iqxrmdq.

VATZ CGUZOK MPMYE