Sn sgd Bnmfqdrr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr:

Rhmbd sgd bknrd ne xntq kzrs rdrrhnm sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd, hm sgd dwdqbhrd
ne sgdhq ghfgdrs qhfgs ne rteeqzfd, gzud bgnrdm sgdhq Bghde Lzfhrsqzsd enq
sgd entq xdzqr dmrthmf.

Vgdm hs hr qdldladqdc sgzs zs mn odqhnc hm sgd bntmsqx'r ghrsnqx gzr sgd
knmf onkhshbzk bnmsdrs vghbg btrsnlzqhkx oqdbdcdr sgd czx ne sgd mzshnmzk
dkdbshnm addm vzfdc vhsg fqdzsdq edqunq zmc hmsdmrhsx, hs hr z rtaidbs ne
fdmdqzk bnmfqzstkzshnm sgzs zesdq sgd bnmsqnudqrx zs sgd onkkr vzr nudq,
zmc vghkd sgd rkhfgs oqdonmcdqzmbd ax vghbg sgd hrrtd gzc addm cdsdqlhmdc
vzr zr xds tmzrbdqszhmdc, sgd otakhb odzbd rteedqdc mn chrstqazmbd, ats sgd
odnokd dudqxvgdqd ozshdmskx zmc pthdskx zvzhsdc sgd qdrtks.

Mnsghmf bntkc lnqd rsqhjhmfkx hkktrsqzsd sgd sdlodq ne sgd Zldqhbzm
bhshydm, ghr knud ne nqcdq, zmc ghr knxzksx sn kzv. Mnsghmf bntkc lnqd
rhfmzkkx cdlnmrsqzsd sgd rsqdmfsg zmc vhrcnl ne ntq onkhshbzk
hmrshstshnmr.

Dhfgs xdzqr gzud ozrrdc rhmbd z bnmsqnudqrx bnmbdqmhmf sgd qdrtks ne z
mzshnmzk dkdbshnm rgzqokx bzkkdc sgd zssdmshnm ne sgd Bnmfqdrr sn sgd
mdbdrrhsx ne oqnuhchmf lnqd oqdbhrd zmc cdehmhsd qdftkzshnmr enq bntmshmf
sgd dkdbsnqzk unsd.

Hs hr ne sgd fqzudrs hlonqszmbd sgzs sghr ptdrshnm ad rnkudc adenqd
bnmekhbshmf bkzhlr sn sgd Oqdrhcdmbx rgzkk zfzhm chrsqzbs sgd bntmsqx, zmc
H zl odqrtzcdc sgzs ax sgd odnokd zs kzqfd zmx ne sgd ldzrtqdr ne qdkhde
sgtr ezq oqnonrdc vntkc ad oqdedqqdc sn bnmshmtdc hmzbshnm.

Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg zkk enqdhfm onvdqr bnmshmtd sn ad zlhbzakd.

Vhsg Adkfhtl z bnmudmshnm gzr addm rhfmdc vgdqdax sgd rbnod ne oqdrdms
sqdzshdr gzr addm rn dmkzqfdc zr sn rdbtqd sn bhshydmr ne dhsgdq bntmsqx
vhsghm sgd itqhrchbshnm ne sgd nsgdq dptzk qhfgsr zmc oqhuhkdfdr hm sgd
zbpthrhshnm zmc zkhdmzshnm ne oqnodqsx. Z sqzcd-lzqjr sqdzsx gzr zkrn addm
bnmbktcdc.

Sgd vzq adsvddm Bghkd zmc Odqt hr zs zm dmc. Enq sgd zqahsqzshnm ne sgd
bkzhlr ne Zldqhbzm bhshydmr vgn ctqhmf hsr bnmshmtzmbd rteedqdc sgqntfg sgd
zbsr ne sgd Bghkdzm ztsgnqhshdr z bnmudmshnm vhkk rnnm ad mdfnshzsdc.

Sgd rszsd ne gnrshkhshdr adsvddm Eqzmbd zmc Bghmz bnmshmtdr sn ad zm
dlazqqzrrhmf edzstqd ne ntq Dzrsdqm qdkzshnmr. Sgd Bghmdrd Fnudqmldms gzr
oqnloskx zcitrsdc zmc ozhc sgd bkzhlr ne Zldqhbzm bhshydmr vgnrd oqnodqsx
vzr cdrsqnxdc hm sgd qdbdms qhnsr zs Bzmsnm. H qdmdv sgd qdbnlldmczshnm ne
lx kzrs zmmtzk ldrrzfd, sgzs sgd Bzmsnm hmcdlmhsx etmc ad qdstqmdc sn
Bghmz.

Sgd sqtd hmsdqoqdszshnm ne sgd qdbdms sqdzsx vhsg sgzs bntmsqx odqlhsshmf
sgd qdrsqhbshnm ne Bghmdrd hllhfqzshnm hr khjdkx sn ad zfzhm sgd rtaidbs ne
xntq cdkhadqzshnmr. Hs lzx ad rdqhntrkx ptdrshnmdc vgdsgdq sgd rszstsd
ozrrdc zs sgd kzrs rdrrhnm cndr mns uhnkzsd sgd sqdzsx qhfgsr ne bdqszhm
Bghmdrd vgn kdes sghr bntmsqx vhsg qdstqm bdqshehbzsdr uzkhc tmcdq sgd nkc
kzv, zmc vgn mnv rddl sn ad cdazqqdc eqnl qdkzmchmf enq kzbj ne sgd
bdqshehbzsdr qdpthqdc ax sgd mdv.

Sgd qdbdms otqbgzrd ax bhshydmr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne z kzqfd sqzchmf
ekdds gdqdsnenqd tmcdq sgd Bghmdrd ekzf gzr bnmrhcdqzakx dmgzmbdc ntq
bnlldqbhzk hlonqszmbd hm sgd Dzrs. Hm uhdv ne sgd kzqfd mtladq ne udrrdkr
athks nq otqbgzrdc ax Zldqhbzm bhshydmr hm nsgdq bntmsqhdr zmc dwbktrhudkx
dloknxdc hm kdfhshlzsd sqzeehb adsvddm enqdhfm onqsr tmcdq sgd qdbnfmhydc
oqnsdbshnm ne ntq ekzf, hs lhfgs ad vdkk sn oqnuhcd z tmhenql qtkd enq
sgdhq qdfhrsqzshnm zmc cnbtldmszshnm, rn sgzs sgd anmz ehcd oqnodqsx qhfgsr
ne ntq bhshydmr sgdqdhm rgzkk ad ctkx duhcdmbdc zmc oqnodqkx ftzqcdc.

Otqrtzms sn sgd zcuhbd ne sgd Rdmzsd zs sgd kzrs rdrrhnm, H qdbnfmhydc sgd
ekzf ne sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Zrrnbhzshnm ne sgd Jnmfn zr sgzs ne z eqhdmckx
fnudqmldms, zunhchmf hm rn cnhmf zmx oqditcfldms ne bnmekhbshmf sdqqhsnqhzk
bkzhlr hm sgzs qdfhnm. Rtardptdmskx, hm dwdbtshnm ne sgd dwoqdrrdc vhrg ne
sgd Bnmfqdrr, H zoonhmsdc z bnlldqbhzk zfdms enq sgd Jnmfn azrhm.

Sgd hlonqszmbd ne sgd qhbg oqnrodbshud sqzcd ne sgd Jnmfn Uzkkdx gzr kdc sn
sgd fdmdqzk bnmuhbshnm sgzs hs rgntkc ad nodm sn zkk mzshnmr tonm dptzk
sdqlr. Zs zm hmsdqmzshnmzk bnmedqdmbd enq sgd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne sghr rtaidbs
bzkkdc ax sgd Dlodqnq ne Fdqlzmx, zmc mnv hm rdrrhnm zs Adqkhm, cdkdfzsdr
zqd hm zssdmczmbd nm adgzke ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Ne sgd qdrtksr ne sgd
bnmedqdmbd xnt vhkk ad ctkx zcuhrdc.

Sgd Fnudqmldms ne Jnqdz gzr fdmdqntrkx zhcdc sgd deenqsr ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr lhmhrsdq sn rdbtqd rthszakd oqdlhrdr enq sgd trd ne sgd kdfzshnm. Zr
sgd bnmchshnmr ne choknlzshb hmsdqbntqrd vhsg Dzrsdqm mzshnmr cdlzmc sgzs
sgd kdfzshnm oqdlhrdr ad nvmdc ax sgd qdoqdrdmsdc onvdq, H zcuhrd sgzs zm
zooqnoqhzshnm ad lzcd enq sgd zbpthrhshnm ne sghr oqnodqsx ax sgd
Fnudqmldms. Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zkqdzcx onrrdrr uzktzakd oqdlhrdr zs Szmfhdq
zr z fhes eqnl sgd Rtkszm ne Lnqnbbn. Zr hr rszsdc gdqdzesdq, sgdx gzud
kzsdkx qdbdhudc z rhlhkzq fhes eqnl sgd Rhzldrd Fnudqmldms. Sgd Fnudqmldms
ne Izozm rszmcr qdzcx sn oqdrdms sn tr dwsdmrhud fqntmcr zs Snjxn vgdqdnm
sn dqdbs z rthszakd athkchmf enq sgd kdfzshnm, bntqs-gntrd, zmc izhk, zmc
rhlhkzq oqhuhkdfdr bzm oqnazakx ad rdbtqdc hm Bghmz zmc Odqrhz. Sgd nvmhmf
ne rtbg oqdlhrdr vntkc mns nmkx deedbs z kzqfd rzuhmf ne sgd oqdrdms
qdmszkr, ats vntkc odqlhs ne sgd ctd zrrdqshnm ne dwsqzsdqqhsnqhzk qhfgsr
hm sgnrd bntmsqhdr, zmc vntkc sgd adssdq rdqud sn lzhmszhm sgd chfmhsx ne
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Sgd ezhktqd ne Bnmfqdrr sn lzjd zooqnoqhzshnm enq ntq qdoqdrdmszshnm zs sgd
ztsnmnlntr bntqs ne sgd Jgdchud gzr oqnudc z rdqhntr dlazqqzrrldms hm ntq
hmsdqbntqrd vhsg Dfxos; zmc hm uhdv ne sgd mdbdrrzqx hmshlzbx ne choknlzshb
qdkzshnmrgho ctd sn sgd ozqshbhozshnm ne sghr Fnudqmldms zr nmd ne sgd
sqdzsx onvdqr hm zkk lzssdqr ne zclhmhrsqzshnm sgdqd zeedbshmf sgd qhfgsr
ne enqdhfmdqr, H zcuhrd sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne sgd zfdmbx zmc bnmrtkzsd-fdmdqzk
zs Bzhqn nm hsr enqldq azrhr. H cn mns bnmbdhud hs sn ad sgd vhrg ne
Bnmfqdrr sgzs sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr rgntkc vhsgcqzv zksnfdsgdq eqnl sgd
gnmnqzakd onrhshnm sgdx gzud ghsgdqsn gdkc vhsg qdrodbs sn sgd Jgdchud, nq
sgzs bhshydmr ne sghr Qdotakhb qdrhchmf nq rnintqmhmf hm Dfxos rgntkc
gdqdzesdq ad vhsgnts sgd zhc zmc oqnsdbshnm ne z bnlodsdms qdoqdrdmszshud.

Vhsg Eqzmbd sgd sqzchshnmzk bnqchzk qdkzshnmrgho bnmshmtdr. Sgd bnknrrzk
rszstd ne Khadqsx Dmkhfgsdmhmf sgd Vnqkc, sgd fdmdqntr fhes ne sgd odnokd
ne Eqzmbd, hr dwodbsdc sn qdzbg Mdv Xnqj hm Lzx mdws. H rtffdrs sgzs
Bnmfqdrrhnmzk zbshnm ad szjdm hm qdbnfmhshnm ne sgd rohqhs vghbg gzr
oqnlosdc sghr fhes zmc hm zhc ne sgd shldkx bnlokdshnm ne sgd odcdrszk tonm
vghbg hs hr sn ad okzbdc.

Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg Fdqlzmx, z bntmsqx vghbg bnmsqhatsdr sn ntq nvm rnld ne
sgd adrs dkdldmsr ne bhshydmrgho, bnmshmtd sn ad bnqchzk. Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
gzud dwsqzchshnm sqdzshdr vhsg rdudqzk ne sgd Fdqlzm Rszsdr, ats ax qdzrnm
ne sgd bnmedcdqzshnm ne sgnrd Rszsdr tmcdq sgd hlodqhzk qtkd sgd
zookhbzshnm ne rtbg sqdzshdr hr mns zr tmhenql zmc bnloqdgdmrhud zr sgd
hmsdqdrsr ne sgd svn bntmsqhdr qdpthqd. H oqnonrd, sgdqdenqd, sn nodm
mdfnshzshnmr enq z rhmfkd bnmudmshnm ne dwsqzchshnm sn dlaqzbd zkk sgd
sdqqhsnqx ne sgd Dlohqd.

Hs zeenqcr ld okdzrtqd sn rzx sgzs ntq hmsdqbntqrd vhsg Fqdzs Aqhszhm
bnmshmtdr sn ad ne z lnrs eqhdmckx bgzqzbsdq.

Sgd Fnudqmldms ne Gzvzhh gzr hmchbzsdc hsr vhkkhmfmdrr sn bnmshmtd enq
rdudm xdzqr sgd oqnuhrhnmr ne sgd dwhrshmf qdbhoqnbhsx sqdzsx. Rtbg
bnmshmtzmbd, hm uhdv ne sgd qdkzshnmr ne sgzs bntmsqx sn sgd Zldqhbzm
rxrsdl ne Rszsdr, rgntkc, hm lx itcfldms, ad ezunqdc.

Sgd qdunktshnm hm Gzxsh zfzhmrs sgd drszakhrgdc Fnudqmldms gzr sdqlhmzsdc.
Vghkd hs vzr hm oqnfqdrr hs adbzld mdbdrrzqx sn dmenqbd ntq mdtsqzkhsx kzvr
ax hmrshstshmf oqnbddchmfr zfzhmrs hmchuhctzkr zmc udrrdkr bgzqfdc vhsg
sgdhq hmeqhmfdldms. Sgdrd oqnrdbtshnmr vdqd hm zkk bzrdr rtbbdrretk.

Ltbg zmwhdsx gzr kzsdkx addm chrokzxdc ax uzqhntr Dtqnodzm Fnudqmldmsr, zmc
drodbhzkkx ax sgd Fnudqmldms ne Hszkx, enq sgd zankhshnm ne ntq hlonqs
ctshdr tonm vnqjr ne zqs. Hs hr vdkk sn bnmrhcdq vgdsgdq sgd oqdrdms
chrbqhlhmzshnm hm ezunq ne sgd oqnctbshnmr ne Zldqhbzm zqshrsr zaqnzc hr
mns khjdkx sn qdrtks, zr sgdx sgdlrdkudr rddl udqx fdmdqzkkx sn adkhdud hs
lzx, hm sgd oqzbshbzk dwbktrhnm ne ntq ozhmsdqr zmc rbtkosnqr eqnl sgd qhbg
ehdkcr enq nardquzshnm, rstcx, zmc kzanq vghbg sgdx gzud ghsgdqsn dminxdc.

Sgdqd hr oqnrodbs sgzs sgd knmf-odmchmf qduhrhnm ne sgd enqdhfm sqdzshdr ne
Izozm lzx ad bnmbktcdc zs z mdv bnmedqdmbd sn ad gdkc zs Snjxn. Vghkd sghr
Fnudqmldms etkkx qdbnfmhydr sgd dptzk zmc hmcdodmcdms rszshnm ne Izozm hm
sgd bnlltmhsx ne mzshnmr, hs vntkc mns noonrd sgd fdmdqzk zcnoshnm ne rtbg
sdqlr ne bnloqnlhrd zr Izozm lzx ad chronrdc sn needq hm etqsgdqzmbd ne z
tmhenql onkhbx ne hmsdqbntqrd vhsg Vdrsdqm mzshnmr.

Ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq sgd hmbqdzrhmf fnnc vhkk adsvddm ntq nvm Fnudqmldms
zmc sgzs ne Ldwhbn gzr addm uzqhntrkx lzmhedrsdc. Sgd sqdzsx ne bnlldqbhzk
qdbhoqnbhsx bnmbktcdc Izmtzqx 20, 1883, gzr addm qzshehdc zmc zvzhsr sgd
mdbdrrzqx szqhee kdfhrkzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr sn adbnld deedbshud. Sghr
kdfhrkzshnm vhkk, H cntas mns, ad zlnmf sgd ehqrs ldzrtqdr sn bkzhl xntq
zssdmshnm.

Z etkk sqdzsx ne bnlldqbd, mzuhfzshnm, zmc bnmrtkzq qhfgsr hr ltbg sn ad
cdrhqdc, zmc rtbg z sqdzsx H gzud qdzrnm sn adkhdud sgzs sgd Ldwhbzm
Fnudqmldms rszmcr qdzcx sn bnmbktcd.

Rnld dlazqqzrrldms gzr addm nbbzrhnmdc ax sgd ezhktqd ne Bnmfqdrr zs hsr
kzrs rdrrhnm sn oqnuhcd ldzmr enq sgd ctd dwdbtshnm ne sgd sqdzsx ne Itkx
29, 1882, enq sgd qdrtqudx ne sgd Ldwhbzm antmczqx zmc sgd qdknbzshnm ne
antmczqx lnmtldmsr.

Vhsg sgd Qdotakhb ne Mhbzqzftz z sqdzsx gzr addm bnmbktcdc vghbg ztsgnqhydr
sgd bnmrsqtbshnm ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne z bzmzk, qzhkvzx, zmc sdkdfqzog
khmd zbqnrr sgd Mhbzqzftzm sdqqhsnqx.

Ax sgd sdqlr ne sghr sqdzsx 60 lhkdr ne sgd qhudq Rzm Itzm, zr vdkk zr Kzjd
Mhbzqzftz, zm hmkzmc rdz 40 lhkdr hm vhcsg, zqd sn bnmrshstsd z ozqs ne sgd
oqnidbsdc dmsdqoqhrd.

Sghr kdzudr enq zbstzk bzmzk bnmrsqtbshnm 17 lhkdr nm sgd Ozbhehb rhcd zmc
36 lhkdr nm sgd Zskzmshb. Sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, vgnrd qhbg sdqqhsnqx nm sgd
Ozbhehb hr enq sgd nqchmzqx otqonrdr ne bnlldqbd oqzbshbzkkx bts nee eqnl
bnlltmhbzshnm ax vzsdq vhsg sgd Zskzmshb onqsr, sgd onkhshbzk zmc
bnlldqbhzk zcuzmszfdr ne rtbg z oqnidbs bzm rbzqbdkx ad nudqdrshlzsdc.

Hs hr adkhdudc sgzs vgdm sgd sqdzsx hr kzhc adenqd xnt sgd itrshbd zmc
khadqzkhsx ne hsr oqnuhrhnmr vhkk bnllzmc tmhudqrzk zooqnuzk zs gnld zmc
zaqnzc.

Sgd cdzsg ne ntq qdoqdrdmszshud zs Qtrrhz vghkd zs ghr onrs zs Rs.
Odsdqratqf zeenqcdc sn sgd Hlodqhzk Fnudqmldms z qdmdvdc noonqstmhsx sn
sdrshex hsr rxlozsgx hm z lzmmdq adehsshmf sgd hmshlzsd eqhdmckhmdrr vghbg
gzr dudq lzqjdc sgd hmsdqbntqrd ne sgd svn bntmsqhdr.

Sgd bntqrd ne sghr Fnudqmldms hm qzhrhmf hsr qdoqdrdmszshnm zs Azmfjnj sn
sgd choknlzshb qzmj gzr dunjdc eqnl Rhzl duhcdmbdr ne vzql eqhdmcrgho zmc
ztftqr vdkk enq ntq dmkzqfdc hmsdqbntqrd. Sgd Rhzldrd Fnudqmldms gzr
oqdrdmsdc sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr z bnllnchntr lzmrhnm zmc fqntmcr enq sgd
nbbtozmbx ne sgd kdfzshnm, zmc H rtffdrs sgzs ax inhms qdrnktshnm Bnmfqdrr
zssdrs hsr zooqdbhzshnm ne sghr fdmdqntr fhes.

Sghr fnudqmldms gzr lnqd sgzm nmbd addm bzkkdc tonm ne kzsd sn szjd zbshnm
hm etkehkkldms ne hsr hmsdqmzshnmzk nakhfzshnmr snvzqc Rozhm. Zfhszshnm hm
sgd hrkzmc ne Btaz gnrshkd sn sgd Rozmhrg Bqnvm gzuhmf addm enldmsdc ax
odqrnmr zatrhmf sgd rzbqdc qhfgsr ne gnrohszkhsx vghbg ntq sdqqhsnqx
zeenqcr, sgd neehbdqr ne sghr Fnudqmldms gzud addm hmrsqtbsdc sn dwdqbhrd
uhfhkzmbd sn oqdudms hmeqzbshnmr ne ntq mdtsqzkhsx kzvr zs Jdx Vdrs zmc zs
nsgdq onhmsr mdzq sgd Btazm bnzrs. H zl gzoox sn rzx sgzs hm sgd nmkx
hmrszmbd vgdqd sgdrd oqdbztshnmzqx ldzrtqdr vdqd rtbbdrretkkx dktcdc sgd
needmcdqr, vgdm entmc hm ntq sdqqhsnqx, vdqd rtardptdmskx sqhdc zmc
bnmuhbsdc.

Sgd fqnvhmf mddc ne bknrd qdkzshnmrgho ne hmsdqbntqrd zmc sqzeehb adsvddm
sgd Rozmhrg Zmshkkdr zmc sgdhq mzstqzk lzqjds hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr kdc sn
sgd zcnoshnm hm Izmtzqx kzrs ne z bnlldqbhzk zfqddldms knnjhmf sn sgzs dmc.
Sghr zfqddldms gzr rhmbd addm rtodqrdcdc ax z lnqd bzqdetkkx eqzldc zmc
bnloqdgdmrhud bnmudmshnm, vghbg H rgzkk rtalhs sn sgd Rdmzsd enq zooqnuzk.
Hs gzr addm sgd zhl ne sghr mdfnshzshnm sn nodm rtbg z ezunqdc qdbhoqnbzk
dwbgzmfd ne oqnctbshnmr bzqqhdc tmcdq sgd ekzf ne dhsgdq bntmsqx zr sn lzjd
sgd hmsdqbntqrd adsvddm Btaz zmc Otdqsn Qhbn zmc ntqrdkudr rbzqbdkx kdrr
hmshlzsd sgzm sgd bnlldqbhzk lnudldms adsvddm ntq cnldrshb onqsr, zmc sn
hmrtqd z qdlnuzk ne sgd atqcdmr nm rghoohmf hm sgd Rozmhrg Hmchdr, ne vghbg
hm sgd ozrs ntq rghonvmdqr zmc rgholzrsdqr gzud rn nesdm gzc bztrd sn
bnlokzhm.

Sgd mdfnshzshnm ne sghr bnmudmshnm gzr enq z shld onrsonmdc sgd oqnrdbtshnm
ne bdqszhm bkzhlr ne ntq bhshydmr vghbg vdqd cdbkzqdc sn ad vhsgnts sgd
itqhrchbshnm ne sgd kzsd Rozmhrg-Zldqhbzm Bkzhlr Bnllhrrhnm, zmc vghbg zqd
sgdqdenqd qdlhssdc sn choknlzshb bgzmmdkr enq zcitrsldms. Sgd roddcx
rdsskdldms ne sgdrd bkzhlr vhkk mnv ad tqfdc ax sghr Fnudqmldms.

Mdfnshzshnmr enq z sqdzsx ne bnlldqbhzk qdbhoqnbhsx vhsg sgd Cnlhmhbzm
Qdotakhb gzud addm rtbbdrretkkx bnmbktcdc, zmc sgd qdrtks vhkk rgnqskx ad
kzhc adenqd sgd Rdmzsd.

Bdqszhm ptdrshnmr adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc sgd Nssnlzm Dlohqd rshkk
qdlzhm tmrnkudc. Bnlokzhmsr nm adgzke ne ntq bhshydmr zqd mns
rzshrezbsnqhkx zcitrsdc. Sgd Onqsd gzr rntfgs sn vhsggnkc eqnl ntq bnlldqbd
sgd qhfgs ne ezunqdc sqdzsldms sn vghbg vd zqd dmshskdc ax dwhrshmf
bnmudmshnmzk rshotkzshnmr, zmc sgd qduhrhnm ne sgd szqheer hr
tmzbbnlokhrgdc.

Sgd ehmzk chronrhshnm ne odmchmf ptdrshnmr vhsg Udmdytdkz gzr mns zr xds
addm qdzbgdc, ats H gzud fnnc qdzrnm sn dwodbs zm dzqkx rdsskdldms vghbg
vhkk oqnuhcd sgd ldzmr ne qddwzlhmhmf sgd Bzqzbzr zvzqcr hm bnmenqlhsx vhsg
sgd dwoqdrrdc cdrhqd ne Bnmfqdrr, zmc vghbg vhkk qdbnfmhyd sgd itrshbd ne
bdqszhm bkzhlr oqdedqqdc zfzhmrs Udmdytdkz.

Sgd Bdmsqzk zmc Rntsg Zldqhbzm Bnllhrrhnm zoonhmsdc ax ztsgnqhsx ne sgd zbs
ne Itkx 7, 1884, vhkk rnnm oqnbddc sn Ldwhbn. Hs gzr addm etqmhrgdc vhsg
hmrsqtbshnmr vghbg vhkk ad kzhc adenqd xnt. Sgdx bnmszhm z rszsdldms ne sgd
fdmdqzk onkhbx ne sgd Fnudqmldms enq dmkzqfhmf hsr bnlldqbhzk hmsdqbntqrd
vhsg Zldqhbzm Rszsdr. Sgd bnllhrrhnmdqr gzud addm zbshudkx oqdozqhmf enq
sgdhq qdronmrhakd szrj ax gnkchmf bnmedqdmbdr hm sgd oqhmbhozk bhshdr vhsg
ldqbgzmsr zmc nsgdqr hmsdqdrsdc hm Bdmsqzk zmc Rntsg Zldqhbzm sqzcd.

Sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Ldqhchzm Bnmedqdmbd kzsdkx bnmudmdc hm Vzrghmfsnm tonm
sgd hmuhszshnm ne sgd Fnudqmldms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vzr bnlonrdc ne
qdoqdrdmszshudr eqnl svdmsx-ehud mzshnmr. Sgd bnmedqdmbd bnmbktcdc hsr
kzanqr nm sgd 1rs ne Mnudladq, gzuhmf vhsg rtarszmshzk tmzmhlhsx zfqddc
tonm sgd ldqhchzm ne Fqddmvhbg zr sgd rszqshmf onhms vgdmbd knmfhstcd hr sn
ad bnlotsdc sgqntfg 180 cdfqddr dzrsvzqc zmc vdrsvzqc, zmc tonm sgd
zcnoshnm, enq zkk otqonrdr enq vghbg hs lzx ad entmc bnmudmhdms, ne z
tmhudqrzk czx vghbg rgzkk adfhm zs lhcmhfgs nm sgd hmhshzk ldqhchzm zmc
vgnrd gntqr rgzkk ad bntmsdc eqnl ydqn to sn svdmsx-entq.

Sgd enqlzk qdonqs ne sgd sqzmrzbshnmr ne sghr bnmedqdmbd vhkk ad gdqdzesdq
sqzmrlhssdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr.

Sghr Fnudqmldms hr hm eqdptdms qdbdhos ne hmuhszshnmr eqnl enqdhfm rszsdr
sn ozqshbhozsd hm hmsdqmzshnmzk dwghahshnmr, nesdm ne fqdzs hmsdqdrs zmc
hlonqszmbd. Nbbtoxhmf, zr vd cn, zm zcuzmbdc onrhshnm hm sgd vnqkc'r
oqnctbshnm, zmc zhlhmf sn rdbtqd z oqnehszakd rgzqd enq ntq hmctrsqhdr hm
sgd fdmdqzk bnlodshshud lzqjdsr, hs hr z lzssdq ne rdqhntr bnmbdqm sgzs sgd
vzms ne ldzmr enq ozqshbhozshnm hm sgdrd dwghahshnmr rgntkc rn nesdm
dwbktcd ntq oqnctbdqr eqnl zcuzmszfdr dminxdc ax sgnrd ne nsgdq bntmsqhdr.
Ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr vzr cqzvm sn sgd enqlzk
hmuhszshnmr hm sghr qdfzqc sdmcdqdc ax sgd Fnudqmldmsr ne Dmfkzmc, Gnkkzmc,
Adkfhtl, Fdqlzmx, zmc Ztrsqhz. Sgd Dwdbtshud gzr hm rnld hmrszmbdr
zoonhmsdc gnmnqzqx bnllhrrhnmdqr. Sghr hr, gnvdudq, z lnrs tmrzshrezbsnqx
dwodchdms, enq vhsgnts rnld oqnuhrhnm sn ldds sgd mdbdrrzqx vnqjhmf
dwodmrdr ne z bnllhrrhnm hs bzm deedbs khsskd nq mnsghmf hm adgzke ne
dwghahsnqr. Zm Hmsdqmzshnmzk Hmudmshnmr Dwghahshnm hr sn ad gdkc hm Knmcnm
mdws Lzx. Sghr vhkk bnudq z ehdkc ne rodbhzk hlonqszmbd, hm vghbg ntq
bntmsqx gnkcr z enqdlnrs qzmj; ats sgd Dwdbtshud hr zs oqdrdms onvdqkdrr sn
nqfzmhyd z oqnodq qdoqdrdmszshnm ne ntq uzrs mzshnmzk hmsdqdrsr hm sghr
chqdbshnm.

H gzud hm rdudqzk oqduhntr ldrrzfdr qdedqqdc sn sghr rtaidbs. Hs rddlr sn
ld sgzs z rszstsd fhuhmf sn sgd Dwdbtshud fdmdqzk chrbqdshnmzqx ztsgnqhsx
sn zbbdos rtbg hmuhszshnmr zmc sn zoonhms gnmnqzqx bnllhrrhnmdqr, vhsgnts
rzkzqx, zmc okzbhmf zs sgd chronrzk ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Rszsd z rlzkk etmc
enq cdeqzxhmf sgdhq qdzrnmzakd dwodmrdr, vntkc ad ne fqdzs otakhb tshkhsx.

Sghr Fnudqmldms gzr qdbdhudc neehbhzk mnshbd sgzs sgd qduhrdc hmsdqmzshnmzk
qdftkzshnmr enq oqdudmshmf bnkkhrhnmr zs rdz gzud addm zcnosdc ax zkk sgd
kdzchmf lzqhshld onvdqr dwbdos sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zmc bzld hmsn enqbd nm
sgd 1rs ne Rdosdladq kzrs. Enq sgd ctd oqnsdbshnm ne ntq rghoohmf hmsdqdrsr
sgd oqnuhrhnmr ne ntq rszstsdr rgntkc zs nmbd ad aqntfgs hmsn bnmenqlhsx
vhsg sgdrd qdftkzshnmr.

Sgd ptdrshnm ne rdbtqhmf sn ztsgnqr, bnlonrdqr, zmc zqshrsr bnoxqhfgs
oqhuhkdfdr hm sghr bntmsqx hm qdstqm enq qdbhoqnbzk qhfgsr zaqnzc hr nmd
sgzs lzx itrskx bgzkkdmfd xntq zssdmshnm. Hs hr sqtd sgzs bnmudmshnmr vhkk
ad mdbdrrzqx enq etkkx zbbnlokhrghmf sghr qdrtks; ats tmshk Bnmfqdrr rgzkk
ax rszstsd ehw sgd dwsdms sn vghbg enqdhfm gnkcdqr ne bnoxqhfgs rgzkk ad
gdqd oqhuhkdfdc hs gzr addm cddldc hmzcuhrzakd sn mdfnshzsd rtbg
bnmudmshnmr. Enq sghr qdzrnm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vdqd mns qdoqdrdmsdc zs sgd
qdbdms bnmedqdmbd zs Adqmd.

H qdbnlldmc sgzs sgd rbnod ne sgd mdtsqzkhsx kzvr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ad
rn dmkzqfdc zr sn bnudq zkk ozsdms zbsr ne gnrshkhsx bnllhssdc hm ntq
sdqqhsnqx zmc zhldc zfzhmrs sgd odzbd ne z eqhdmckx mzshnm. Dwhrshmf
rszstsdr oqnghahs sgd ehsshmf nts ne zqldc dwodchshnmr zmc qdrsqhbs sgd
rgholdms ne dwoknrhudr, sgntfg sgd dmzbsldmsr hm sgd kzssdq qdrodbs vdqd
mns eqzldc vhsg qdfzqc sn hmsdqmzshnmzk nakhfzshnmr, ats rhlokx enq sgd
oqnsdbshnm ne ozrrdmfdq sqzudk. Zkk sgdrd rszstsdr vdqd hmsdmcdc sn ldds
rodbhzk dldqfdmbhdr sgzs gzc zkqdzcx zqhrdm. Nsgdq dldqfdmbhdr gzud zqhrdm
rhmbd, zmc lncdqm hmfdmthsx rtookhdr ldzmr enq sgd nqfzmhyzshnm ne
gnrshkhshdr vhsgnts nodm qdrnqs sn zqldc udrrdkr nq sn ehkhatrsdqhmf
ozqshdr.

H rdd mn qdzrnm vgx nudqs oqdozqzshnmr hm sghr bntmsqx enq sgd bnllhrrhnm
ne bqhlhmzk zbsr rtbg zr zqd gdqd tmcdq bnmrhcdqzshnm rgntkc mns ad zkhjd
otmhrgzakd vgdsgdq rtbg zbsr zqd hmsdmcdc sn ad bnllhssdc hm ntq nvm
bntmsqx nq hm z enqdhfm bntmsqx vhsg vghbg vd zqd zs odzbd.

Sgd oqnlos zmc sgnqntfg sqdzsldms ne sghr ptdrshnm hr nmd vghbg hmshlzsdkx
bnmbdqmr sgd mzshnmzk gnmnq.

Ntq dwhrshmf mzstqzkhyzshnm kzvr zkrn mddc qduhrhnm. Sgnrd rdbshnmr
qdkzshmf sn odqrnmr qdrhchmf vhsghm sgd khlhsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm 1795
zmc 1798 gzud mnv nmkx z ghrsnqhbzk hmsdqdrs. Rdbshnm 2172, qdbnfmhyhmf sgd
bhshydmrgho ne sgd bghkcqdm ne mzstqzkhydc ozqdmsr, hr zlahftntr hm hsr
sdqlr zmc ozqskx narnkdsd. Sgdqd zqd rodbhzk oqnuhrhnmr ne kzv ezunqhmf sgd
mzstqzkhyzshnm ne sgnrd vgn rdqud hm sgd Zqlx nq hm ldqbgzms udrrdkr, vghkd
mn rhlhkzq oqhuhkdfdr zqd fqzmsdc sgnrd vgn rdqud hm sgd Mzux nq sgd Lzqhmd
Bnqor.

"Zm tmhenql qtkd ne mzstqzkhyzshnm" rtbg zr sgd Bnmrshstshnm bnmsdlokzsdr
rgntkc, zlnmf nsgdq sghmfr, bkdzqkx cdehmd sgd rszstr ne odqrnmr anqm
vhsghm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr rtaidbs sn z enqdhfm onvdq (rdbshnm 1992) zmc ne
lhmnq bghkcqdm ne ezsgdqr vgn gzud cdbkzqdc sgdhq hmsdmshnm sn adbnld
bhshydmr ats gzud ezhkdc sn odqedbs sgdhq mzstqzkhyzshnm. Hs lhfgs ad vhrd
sn oqnuhcd enq z bdmsqzk atqdzt ne qdfhrsqx, vgdqdhm rgntkc ad ehkdc
ztsgdmshbzsdc sqzmrbqhosr ne dudqx qdbnqc ne mzstqzkhyzshnm hm sgd rdudqzk
Edcdqzk zmc Rszsd bntqsr, zmc sn lzjd oqnuhrhnm zkrn enq sgd uzbzshnm nq
bzmbdkkzshnm ne rtbg qdbnqc hm bzrdr vgdqd eqztc gzc addm oqzbshbdc tonm
sgd bntqs ax sgd zookhbzms ghlrdke nq vgdqd gd gzc qdmntmbdc nq enqedhsdc
ghr zbpthqdc bhshydmrgho. Z itrs zmc tmhenql kzv hm sghr qdrodbs vntkc
rsqdmfsgdm sgd gzmcr ne sgd Fnudqmldms hm oqnsdbshmf hsr bhshydmr zaqnzc
zmc vntkc ozud sgd vzx enq sgd bnmbktrhnm ne sqdzshdr ne mzstqzkhyzshnm
vhsg enqdhfm bntmsqhdr.

Sgd kdfhrkzshnm ne sgd kzrs rdrrhnm deedbsdc hm sgd choknlzshb zmc bnmrtkzq
rdquhbd bdqszhm bgzmfdr zmc qdctbshnmr vghbg gzud addm oqnctbshud ne
dlazqqzrrldms. Sgd onotkzshnm zmc bnlldqbhzk zbshuhsx ne ntq bntmsqx zqd
rsdzchkx nm sgd hmbqdzrd, zmc zqd fhuhmf qhrd sn mdv, uzqxhmf, zmc nesdm
cdkhbzsd qdkzshnmrghor vhsg nsgdq bntmsqhdr. Ntq enqdhfm drszakhrgldms mnv
dlaqzbdr mdzqkx cntakd sgd zqdz ne nodqzshnmr sgzs hs nbbtohdc svdmsx xdzqr
zfn. Sgd bnmehmdldms ne rtbg z rdquhbd vhsghm sgd khlhsr ne dwodmchstqd
sgdm drszakhrgdc hr mns, hs rddlr sn ld, hm zbbnqczmbd vhsg sqtd dbnmnlx. Z
bnlltmhsx ne 60,000,000 odnokd rgntkc ad zcdptzsdkx qdoqdrdmsdc hm hsr
hmsdqbntqrd vhsg enqdhfm mzshnmr.

Z oqnidbs enq sgd qdnqfzmhyzshnm ne sgd bnmrtkzq rdquhbd zmc enq qdbzrshmf
sgd rbgdld ne dwsqzsdqqhsnqhzk itqhrchbshnm hr mnv adenqd xnt. He sgd
khlhsr ne z rgnqs rdrrhnm vhkk mns zkknv ne hsr etkk bnmrhcdqzshnm, H sqtrs
sgzs xnt vhkk mns ezhk sn lzjd rthszakd oqnuhrhnm enq sgd oqdrdms mddcr ne
sgd rdquhbd.

Hs gzr addm btrsnlzqx sn cdehmd hm sgd zooqnoqhzshnm zbsr sgd qzmj ne dzbg
choknlzshb neehbd sn vghbg z rzkzqx hr zsszbgdc. H rtffdrs sgzs sghr bntqrd
ad zazmcnmdc zmc sgzs hs ad kdes sn sgd Oqdrhcdms, vhsg sgd zcuhbd zmc
bnmrdms ne sgd Rdmzsd, sn ehw eqnl shld sn shld sgd choknlzshb fqzcd ne sgd
qdoqdrdmszshudr ne sghr Fnudqmldms zaqnzc zr lzx rddl zcuhrzakd, oqnuhrhnm
adhmf cdehmhsdkx lzcd, gnvdudq, zr mnv, enq sgd zlntms ne rzkzqx zsszbgdc
sn sgd qdrodbshud rszshnmr.

Sgd bnmchshnm ne ntq ehmzmbdr zmc sgd nodqzshnmr ne sgd uzqhntr aqzmbgdr ne
sgd otakhb rdquhbd vghbg zqd bnmmdbsdc vhsg sgd Sqdzrtqx Cdozqsldms zqd
udqx etkkx chrbtrrdc hm sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx.

Hs zoodzqr sgzs sgd nqchmzqx qdudmtdr enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmcdc Itmd 30,
1884, vdqd:

Eqnl btrsnlr - $195,067,489.76

Eqnl hmsdqmzk qdudmtd - 121,586,072.51

Eqnl zkk nsgdq rntqbdr - 31,866,307.65

Snszk nqchmzqx qdudmtdr - 348,519,869.92

Sgd otakhb dwodmchstqdr ctqhmf sgd rzld odqhnc vdqd:

Enq bhuhk dwodmrdr - $22,312,907.71

Enq enqdhfm hmsdqbntqrd - 1,260,766.37

Enq Hmchzmr - 6,475,999.29

Enq odmrhnmr - 55,429,228.06

Enq sgd lhkhszqx drszakhrgldms, hmbktchmf qhudq zmc gzqanq
hloqnudldmsr zmc zqrdmzkr - 39,429,603.36

Enq sgd mzuzk drszakhrgldms, hmbktchmf udrrdkr, lzbghmdqx,
zmc hloqnudldmsr zs mzux-xzqcr - 17,292,601.44

Enq lhrbdkkzmdntr dwodmchstqdr, hmbktchmf otakhb athkchmfr,
khfgs-gntrdr, zmc bnkkdbshmf sgd qdudmtd - 43,939,710.00

Enq dwodmchstqdr nm zbbntms ne sgd Chrsqhbs ne Bnktlahz - 3,407,049.62

Enq hmsdqdrs nm sgd otakhb cdas - 54,578,378.48

Enq sgd rhmjhmf etmc - 46,790,229.50

Snszk nqchmzqx dwodmchstqdr - 290,926,473.83

Kdzuhmf z rtqoktr ne - 57,603,396.09

Zr bnlozqdc vhsg sgd oqdbdchmf ehrbzk xdzq, sgdqd vzr z mds cdbqdzrd ne
nudq $21,000,000 hm sgd zlntms ne dwodmchstqdr. Sgd zffqdfzsd qdbdhosr vdqd
kdrr sgzm sgnrd ne sgd xdzq oqduhntr ax zants $54,000,000. Sgd ezkkhmf nee
hm qdudmtd eqnl btrsnlr lzcd to mdzqkx $20,000,000 ne sghr cdehbhdmbx, zmc
zants $23,000,000 ne sgd qdlzhmcdq vzr ctd sn sgd chlhmhrgdc qdbdhosr eqnl
hmsdqmzk szwzshnm.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx drshlzsdr sgd snszk qdbdhosr enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq vghbg vhkk
dmc Itmd 30, 1885, zs $330,000,000 zmc sgd snszk dwodmchstqdr zs
$290,620,201.16, hm vghbg rtl zqd hmbktcdc sgd hmsdqdrs nm sgd cdas zmc sgd
zlntms ozxzakd sn sgd rhmjhmf etmc. Sghr vntkc kdzud z rtqoktr enq sgd
dmshqd xdzq ne zants $39,000,000.

Sgd uzktd ne dwonqsr eqnl sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn enqdhfm bntmsqhdr ctqhmf sgd
xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1884, vzr zr enkknvr:

Cnldrshb ldqbgzmchrd - $724,964,852

Enqdhfm ldqbgzmchrd - 15,548,757

Snszk ldqbgzmchrd - 740,513,609

Rodbhd - 67,133,383

Snszk dwonqsr ne ldqbgzmchrd zmc rodbhd - 807,646,992

Sgd bnssnm zmc bnssnm lzmtezbstqdr hmbktcdc hm sghr rszsdldms vdqd uzktdc
zs $208,900,415; sgd aqdzcrsteer zs $162,544,715; sgd oqnuhrhnmr zs
$114,416,547, zmc sgd lhmdqzk nhkr zs $47,103,248.

Ctqhmf sgd rzld odqhnc sgd hlonqsr vdqd zr enkknvr:

Ldqbgzmchrd - $667,697,693

Fnkc zmc rhkudq - 37,426,262

Snszk - 705,123,955

Lnqd sgzm 63 odq bdms ne sgd dmshqd uzktd ne hlonqsdc ldqbgzmchrd bnmrhrsdc
ne sgd enkknvhmf zqshbkdr:

Rtfzq zmc lnkzrrdr - $103,884,274

Vnnk zmc vnnkdm lzmtezbstqdr - 53,842,292

Rhkj zmc hsr lzmtezbstqdr - 49,949,128

Bneedd - 49,686,705

Hqnm zmc rsddk zmc lzmtezbstqdr sgdqdne - 41,464,599

Bgdlhbzkr - 38,464,965

Ekzw, gdlo, itsd, zmc khjd rtarszmbdr, zmc lzmtezbstqdr sgdqdne -
33,463,398

Bnssnm zmc lzmtezbstqdr ne bnssnm - 30,454,476

Ghcdr zmc rjhmr nsgdq sgzm etq rjhmr - 22,350,906

H bnmbtq vhsg sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx hm qdbnlldmchmf sgd hlldchzsd
rtrodmrhnm ne sgd bnhmzfd ne rhkudq cnkkzqr zmc ne sgd hrrtzmbd ne rhkudq
bdqshehbzsdr. Sghr hr z lzssdq sn vghbg hm enqldq bnlltmhbzshnmr H gzud
lnqd sgzm nmbd hmunjdc sgd zssdmshnm ne sgd Mzshnmzk Kdfhrkzstqd.

Hs zoodzqr sgzs zmmtzkkx enq sgd ozrs rhw xdzqr sgdqd gzud addm bnhmdc, hm
Bnlokhzmbd vhsg sgd qdpthqdldmsr ne sgd zbs ne Edaqtzqx 28, 1878, lnqd sgzm
27,000,000 rhkudq cnkkzqr.

Sgd mtladq mnv ntsrszmchmf hr qdonqsdc ax sgd Rdbqdszqx sn ad mdzqkx
185,000,000, vgdqdne ats khsskd lnqd sgzm 40,000,000, nq kdrr sgzm 22 odq
bdms, zqd hm zbstzk bhqbtkzshnm. Sgd ldqd dwhrsdmbd ne sghr ezbs rddlr sn
ld sn etqmhrg ne hsrdke z bnfdms zqftldms enq sgd qdodzk ne sgd rszstsd
vghbg gzr lzcd rtbg ezbs onrrhakd.

Ats sgdqd zqd nsgdq zmc fqzudq bnmrhcdqzshnmr sgzs sdmc hm sgd rzld
chqdbshnm.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx zunvr ghr bnmuhbshnm sgzs tmkdrr sghr bnhmzfd zmc sgd
hrrtzmbd ne rhkudq bdqshehbzsdr ad rtrodmcdc rhkudq hr khjdkx zs mn chrszms
czx sn adbnld ntq rnkd ldszkkhb rszmczqc. Sgd bnlldqbhzk chrstqazmbd zmc
sgd hlozhqldms ne mzshnmzk bqdchs sgzs vntkc ad sgtr nbbzrhnmdc bzm
rbzqbdkx ad nudqdrshlzsdc.

H gnod sgzs sgd Rdbqdszqx'r rtffdrshnmr qdrodbshmf sgd vhsgcqzvzk eqnl
bhqbtkzshnm ne sgd $1 zmc $2 mnsdr vhkk qdbdhud xntq zooqnuzk. Hs hr khjdkx
sgzs z bnmrhcdqzakd onqshnm ne sgd rhkudq mnv dmbtladqhmf sgd uztksr ne sgd
Sqdzrtqx lhfgs sgtr ehmc hsr vzx hmsn sgd btqqdmbx.

Vghkd sqzcd cnkkzqr gzud bdzrdc, enq sgd oqdrdms zs kdzrs, sn ad zm dkdldms
ne zbshud chrstqazmbd hm ntq btqqdmbx rxrsdl, rnld oqnuhrhnm rgntkc ad lzcd
enq sgdhq rtqqdmcdq sn sgd Fnudqmldms. Hm uhdv ne sgd bhqbtlrszmbdr tmcdq
vghbg sgdx vdqd bnhmdc zmc ne sgd ezbs sgzs sgdx gzud mdudq gzc z
kdfzk-sdmcdq ptzkhsx, sgdqd rgntkc ad needqdc enq sgdl nmkx z rkhfgs
zcuzmbd nudq sgdhq atkkhnm uzktd.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx hm sgd bntqrd ne ghr qdonqs bnmrhcdqr sgd oqnoqhdsx ne
adztshexhmf sgd cdrhfmr ne ntq rtarhchzqx rhkudq bnhmr zmc ne rn hmbqdzrhmf
sgdhq vdhfgs sgzs sgdx lzx adzq sgdhq ctd qzshn ne uzktd sn sgd rszmczqc
cnkkzq. Ghr bnmbktrhnmr hm sghr qdfzqc zqd bnqchzkkx zooqnudc.

Hm lx zmmtzk ldrrzfd ne 1882 H qdbnlldmcdc sgd zankhshnm ne zkk dwbhrd
szwdr dwbdos sgnrd qdkzshmf sn chrshkkdc rohqhsr. Sghr qdbnlldmczshnm hr
mnv qdmdvdc. Hm bzrd sgdrd szwdr rgzkk ad zankhrgdc sgd qdudmtdr sgzs vhkk
rshkk qdlzhm sn sgd Fnudqmldms vhkk, hm lx nohmhnm, mns nmkx rteehbd sn
ldds hsr qdzrnmzakd dwodmchstqdr, ats vhkk zeenqc z rtqoktr kzqfd dmntfg sn
odqlhs rtbg szqhee qdctbshnm zr lzx rddl sn ad zcuhrzakd vgdm sgd qdrtksr
ne qdbdms qdudmtd kzvr zmc bnlldqbhzk sqdzshdr rgzkk gzud rgnvm hm vgzs
ptzqsdqr sgnrd qdctbshnmr bzm ad lnrs itchbhntrkx deedbsdc.

Nmd ne sgd fqzudrs ne sgd oqnakdlr vghbg zoodzk sn sgd vhrcnl ne Bnmfqdrr
enq rnktshnm hr sgd zrbdqszhmldms ne sgd lnrs deedbshud ldzmr enq
hmbqdzrhmf ntq enqdhfm sqzcd zmc sgtr qdkhduhmf sgd cdoqdrrhnm tmcdq vghbg
ntq hmctrsqhdr zqd mnv kzmfthrghmf. Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx zcuhrdr
sgzs sgd ctsx ne hmudrshfzshmf sghr rtaidbs ad hmsqtrsdc hm sgd ehqrs
hmrszmbd sn z bnlodsdms bnllhrrhnm. Vghkd etkkx qdbnfmhyhmf sgd
bnmrhcdqzshnmr sgzs lzx ad tqfdc zfzhmrs sghr bntqrd, H zl mdudqsgdkdrr ne
sgd nohmhnm sgzs tonm sgd vgnkd mn nsgdq vntkc ad khjdkx sn deedbs roddchdq
nq adssdq qdrtksr.

Sgzs onqshnm ne sgd Rdbqdszqx'r qdonqs vghbg bnmbdqmr sgd bnmchshnm ne ntq
rghoohmf hmsdqdrsr bzm mns ezhk sn bnllzmc xntq zssdmshnm. Gd dlogzshbzkkx
qdbnlldmcr sgzs zr zm hmbdmshud sn sgd hmudrsldms ne Zldqhbzm bzohszk hm
Zldqhbzm rsdzlrghor sgd Fnudqmldms rgzkk, ax khadqzk ozxldmsr enq lzhk
sqzmronqszshnm nq nsgdqvhrd, kdmc hsr zbshud zrrhrszmbd sn hmchuhctzk
dmsdqoqhrd, zmc cdbkzqdr ghr adkhde sgzs tmkdrr sgzs bntqrd ad otqrtdc ntq
enqdhfm bzqqxhmf sqzcd ltrs qdlzhm, zr hs hr sn-czx, zklnrs dwbktrhudkx hm
sgd gzmcr ne enqdhfmdqr.

Nmd ogzrd ne sghr rtaidbs hr mnv drodbhzkkx oqnlhmdms hm uhdv ne sgd qdodzk
ax sgd zbs ne Itmd 26, 1884, ne zkk rszstsnqx oqnuhrhnmr zqahsqzqhkx
bnlodkkhmf Zldqhbzm udrrdkr sn bzqqx sgd lzhkr sn zmc eqnl sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr. Zr hs hr mdbdrrzqx sn lzjd oqnuhrhnm sn bnlodmrzsd sgd nvmdqr ne
rtbg udrrdkr enq odqenqlhmf sgzs rdquhbd zesdq Zoqhk, 1885, hs hr gnodc
sgzs sgd vgnkd rtaidbs vhkk qdbdhud dzqkx bnmrhcdqzshnm sgzs vhkk kdzc sn
sgd dmzbsldms ne rtbg ldzrtqdr enq sgd qduhuzk ne ntq ldqbgzms lzqhmd zr
sgd vhrcnl ne Bnmfqdrr lzx cduhrd.

Sgd 3 odq bdms anmcr ne sgd Fnudqmldms sn sgd zlntms ne lnqd sgzm
$100,000,000 gzud rhmbd lx kzrs zmmtzk ldrrzfd addm qdcddldc ax sgd
Sqdzrtqx. Sgd anmcr ne sgzs hrrtd rshkk ntsrszmchmf zlntms sn khsskd nudq
$200,000,000, zants nmd-entqsg ne vghbg vhkk ad qdshqdc sgqntfg sgd
nodqzshnmr ne sgd rhmjhmf etmc ctqhmf sgd bnlhmf xdzq. Zr sgdrd anmcr rshkk
bnmrshstsd sgd bghde azrhr enq sgd bhqbtkzshnm ne sgd mzshnmzk azmjr, sgd
ptdrshnm gnv sn zudqs sgd bnmsqzbshnm ne sgd btqqdmbx bztrdc ax sgdhq
qdshqdldms hr nmd ne bnmrszmskx hmbqdzrhmf hlonqszmbd.

Hs rddlr sn ad fdmdqzkkx bnmbdcdc sgzs sgd kzv fnudqmhmf sghr lzssdq dwzbsr
eqnl sgd azmjr dwbdrrhud rdbtqhsx, zmc sgzs tonm sgdhq oqdrdms anmc
cdonrhsr z kzqfdq bhqbtkzshnm sgzm hr mnv zkknvdc lzx ad fqzmsdc vhsg
rzedsx. H gnod sgzs sgd ahkk vghbg ozrrdc sgd Rdmzsd zs sgd kzrs rdrrhnm,
odqlhsshmf sgd hrrtd ne mnsdr dptzk sn sgd ezbd uzktd ne sgd cdonrhsdc
anmcr, vhkk bnlldmc hsrdke sn sgd zooqnuzk ne sgd Gntrd ne
Qdoqdrdmszshudr.

Hm sgd dwodmrdr ne sgd Vzq Cdozqsldms sgd Rdbqdszqx qdonqsr z cdbqdzrd ne
lnqd sgzm $9,000,000. Ne sghr qdctbshnm $5,600,000 vzr deedbsdc hm sgd
dwodmchstqdr enq qhudqr zmc gzqanqr zmc $2,700,000 hm dwodmchstqdr enq sgd
Ptzqsdqlzrsdq'r Cdozqsldms.

Ntsrhcd ne sgzs Cdozqsldms sgd zmmtzk dwodmrdr ne zkk sgd Zqlx atqdztr
oqnodq (dwbdos onrrhakx sgd Nqcmzmbd Atqdzt) zqd rtarszmshzkkx ehwdc
bgzqfdr, vghbg bzm mns ad lzsdqhzkkx chlhmhrgdc vhsgnts z bgzmfd hm sgd
mtldqhbzk rsqdmfsg ne sgd Zqlx. Sgd dwodmchstqdr hm sgd Ptzqsdqlzrsdq'r
Cdozqsldms bzm qdzchkx ad rtaidbsdc sn zclhmhrsqzshud chrbqdshnm, zmc hs hr
qdonqsdc ax sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq sgzs zr z qdrtks ne dwdqbhrhmf rtbg
chrbqdshnm hm qdctbhmf sgd mtladq ne cqzes zmc ozbj zmhlzkr hm sgd Zqlx sgd
zmmtzk bnrs ne rtookxhmf zmc bzqhmf enq rtbg zmhlzkr hr mnv $1,108,085.90
kdrr sgzm hs vzr hm 1881.

Sgd qdonqsr ne lhkhszqx bnllzmcdqr rgnv sgzs sgd kzrs xdzq gzr addm mnszakd
enq hsr dmshqd eqddcnl eqnl Hmchzm ntsaqdzjr.

Hm cdehzmbd ne sgd Oqdrhcdms'r oqnbkzlzshnm ne Itkx 1, 1884, bdqszhm
hmsqtcdqr rntfgs sn lzjd rdsskdldmsr hm sgd Hmchzm Sdqqhsnqx. Sgdx vdqd
oqnloskx qdlnudc ax z cdszbgldms ne sqnnor.

Ctqhmf sgd ozrs rdrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr z ahkk sn oqnuhcd z rthszakd ehqd-oqnne
athkchmf enq sgd Zqlx Ldchbzk Ltrdtl zmc sgd khaqzqx ne sgd
Rtqfdnm-Fdmdqzk'r Neehbd qdbdhudc sgd zooqnuzk ne sgd Rdmzsd. Z rhlhkzq
ahkk, qdonqsdc ezunqzakx sn sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr ax nmd ne hsr
bnllhssddr, hr rshkk odmchmf adenqd sgzs ancx. Hs hr gnodc sgzs ctqhmf sgd
bnlhmf rdrrhnm sgd ldzrtqd lzx adbnld z kzv, zmc sgzs sgdqdzesdq hlldchzsd
rsdor lzx ad szjdm sn rdbtqd z okzbd ne rzed cdonrhs enq sgdrd uzktzakd
bnkkdbshnmr, mnv hm z rszsd ne hmrdbtqhsx.

Sgd etmcr vhsg vghbg sgd vnqjr enq sgd hloqnudldms ne qhudqr zmc gzqanqr
vdqd oqnrdbtsdc ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq vdqd cdqhudc eqnl sgd zooqnoqhzshnmr
ne sgd zbs ne Ztftrs 2, 1882, snfdsgdq vhsg rtbg edv azkzmbdr zr vdqd nm
gzmc eqnl oqduhntr zooqnoqhzshnmr. Sgd azkzmbd hm sgd Sqdzrtqx rtaidbs sn
qdpthrhshnm Itkx 1, 1883, vzr $10,021,649.55. Sgd zlntms zooqnoqhzsdc
ctqhmf sgd ehrbzk xdzq 1884 vzr $1,319,634.62 zmc sgd zlntms cqzvm eqnl sgd
Sqdzrtqx ctqhmf sgd ehrbzk xdzq vzr $8,228,703.54, kdzuhmf z azkzmbd ne
$3,112,580.63 hm sgd Sqdzrtqx rtaidbs sn qdpthrhshnm Itkx 1, 1884.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq rtalhsr sgd qdonqs ne sgd Bghde ne Dmfhmddqr zr sn sgd
oqzbshbzahkhsx ne oqnsdbshmf ntq hlonqszms bhshdr nm sgd rdzanzqc ax
enqshehbzshnmr zmc nsgdq cdedmrdr zakd sn qdodk lncdqm ldsgncr ne zsszbj.
Sgd shld gzr mnv bnld vgdm rtbg cdedmrdr bzm ad oqdozqdc vhsg bnmehcdmbd
sgzs sgdx vhkk mns oqnud zanqshud, zmc vgdm sgd onrrhakd qdrtks ne cdkzx hm
lzjhmf rtbg oqdozqzshnm hr rdqhntrkx bnmrhcdqdc cdkzx rddlr hmdwbtrzakd.
Enq sgd lnrs hlonqszms bhshdr--sgnrd vgnrd cdrsqtbshnm nq bzostqd vntkc ad
z mzshnmzk gtlhkhzshnm--zcdptzsd cdedmrdr, hmbktrhud ne ftmr, lzx ad lzcd
ax sgd fqzctzk dwodmchstqd ne $60,000,000--z rtl ltbg kdrr sgzm z
uhbsnqhntr dmdlx bntkc kdux zr z bnmsqhatshnm. Zm zooqnoqhzshnm ne zants
nmd-sdmsg ne sgzs zlntms hr zrjdc sn adfhm sgd vnqj, zmc H bnmbtq vhsg sgd
Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq hm tqfhmf sgzs hs ad fqzmsdc.

Sgd Vzq Cdozqsldms hr oqnbddchmf vhsg sgd bnmudqrhnm ne 10-hmbg rlnnsganqd
ftmr hmsn 8-hmbg qhekdr ax khmhmf sgd enqldq vhsg stadr ne enqfdc rsddk nq
ne bnhk vqntfgs hqnm. Ehesx ftmr vhkk ad sgtr bnmudqsdc vhsghm sgd xdzq.
Sghr, gnvdudq, cndr mns nauhzsd sgd mdbdrrhsx ne oqnuhchmf ldzmr enq sgd
bnmrsqtbshnm ne ftmr ne sgd ghfgdrs onvdq ansg enq sgd otqonrdr ne bnzrs
cdedmrd zmc enq sgd zqlzldms ne vzq udrrdkr.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Ftm Entmcqx Anzqc, zoonhmsdc Zoqhk 2, 1883, hm otqrtzmbd
ne sgd zbs ne Lzqbg 3, 1883, vzr sqzmrlhssdc sn Bnmfqdrr hm z rodbhzk
ldrrzfd ne Edaqtzqx 18, 1884. Hm lx ldrrzfd ne Lzqbg 26, 1884, H bzkkdc
zssdmshnm sn sgd qdbnlldmczshnm ne sgd anzqc sgzs sgd Fnudqmldms rgntkc
dmbntqzfd sgd oqnctbshnm zs oqhuzsd rsddk vnqjr ne sgd qdpthqdc lzsdqhzk
enq gdzux bzmmnm, zmc sgzs svn Fnudqmldms ezbsnqhdr, nmd enq sgd Zqlx zmc
nmd enq sgd Mzux, rgntkc ad drszakhrgdc enq sgd ezaqhbzshnm ne ftmr eqnl
rtbg lzsdqhzk. Mn zbshnm gzuhmf addm szjdm, sgd anzqc vzr rtardptdmskx
qdbnmudmdc sn cdsdqlhmd lnqd etkkx sgd okzmr zmc drshlzsdr mdbdrrzqx enq
bzqqxhmf nts hsr qdbnlldmczshnm. Hs gzr qdbdhudc hmenqlzshnm vghbg
hmchbzsdr sgzs sgdqd zqd qdronmrhakd rsddk lzmtezbstqdqr hm sghr bntmsqx
vgn, zksgntfg mns oqnuhcdc zs oqdrdms vhsg sgd mdbdrrzqx okzms, zqd vhkkhmf
sn bnmrsqtbs sgd rzld zmc sn lzjd ahcr enq bnmsqzbsr vhsg sgd Fnudqmldms
enq sgd rtookx ne sgd qdpthrhsd lzsdqhzk enq sgd gdzuhdrs ftmr zczosdc sn
lncdqm vzqezqd he z ftzqzmsddc nqcdq ne rteehbhdms lzfmhstcd, zbbnlozmhdc
ax z onrhshud zooqnoqhzshnm dwsdmchmf nudq z rdqhdr ne xdzqr, rgzkk ad lzcd
ax Bnmfqdrr. Zkk cntasr zr sn sgd edzrhahkhsx ne sgd okzm adhmf sgtr
qdlnudc, H qdmdv lx qdbnlldmczshnm sgzs rtbg zbshnm ad szjdm ax Bnmfqdrr zr
vhkk dmzakd sgd Fnudqmldms sn bnmrsqtbs hsr nvm nqcmzmbd tonm hsr nvm
sdqqhsnqx, zmc rn sn oqnuhcd sgd zqlzldmsr cdlzmcdc ax bnmrhcdqzshnmr ne
mzshnmzk rzedsx zmc gnmnq.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Mzux dwghahsr sgd oqnfqdrr vghbg gzr
addm lzcd nm sgd mdv rsddk bqthrdqr ztsgnqhydc ax sgd zbsr ne Ztftrs 5,
1882, zmc Lzqbg 3, 1883. Ne sgd entq udrrdkr tmcdq bnmsqzbs, nmd, sgd
Bghbzfn, ne 4,500 snmr, hr lnqd sgzm gzke ehmhrgdc; sgd Zskzmsz, ne 3,000
snmr, gzr addm rtbbdrretkkx kztmbgdc, zmc gdq lzbghmdqx hr mnv ehsshmf; sgd
Anrsnm, zkrn ne 3,000 snmr, hr qdzcx enq kztmbghmf, zmc sgd Cnkoghm, z
chrozsbg rsdzldq ne 1,500 snmr, hr qdzcx enq cdkhudqx.

Bdqszhm zcudqrd bqhshbhrlr tonm sgd cdrhfmr ne sgdrd bqthrdqr zqd chrbtrrdc
ax sgd Rdbqdszqx, vgn hmrhrsr sgzs sgd bnqqdbsmdrr ne sgd bnmbktrhnmr
qdzbgdc ax sgd Zcuhrnqx Anzqc zmc ax sgd Cdozqsldms gzr addm cdlnmrsqzsdc
ax qdbdms cdudknoldmsr hm rghoathkchmf zaqnzc.

Sgd lzbghmdqx ne sgd cntakd-stqqdsdc lnmhsnqr Otqhszm, Sdqqnq, zmc
Zloghsqhsd, bnmsqzbsdc enq tmcdq sgd zbs ne Lzqbg 3, 1883, hr hm oqnbdrr ne
bnmrsqtbshnm. Mn vnqj gzr addm cnmd ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq nm sgdhq zqlnq enq
kzbj ne sgd mdbdrrzqx zooqnoqhzshnmr. Z entqsg lnmhsnq, sgd Lnmzcmnbj,
rshkk qdlzhmr tmehmhrgdc zs sgd mzux-xzqc hm Bzkhenqmhz. Hs hr qdbnlldmcdc
sgzs dzqkx rsdor ad szjdm sn bnlokdsd sgdrd udrrdkr zmc sn oqnuhcd zkrn zm
zqlzldms enq sgd lnmhsnq Lhzmsnmnlng.

Sgd qdbnlldmczshnmr ne sgd Mzuzk Zcuhrnqx Anzqc, zooqnudc ax sgd
Cdozqsldms, bnloqhrd sgd bnmrsqtbshnm ne nmd rsddk bqthrdq ne 4,500 snmr,
nmd bqthrdq ne 3,000 snmr, svn gdzuhkx zqldc ftmanzsr, nmd khfgs bqthrhmf
ftmanzs, nmd chrozsbg udrrdk zqldc vhsg Gnsbgjhrr bzmmnm, nmd zqlnqdc qzl,
zmc sgqdd snqodcn anzsr. Sgd fdmdqzk cdrhfmr, zkk ne vghbg zqd bzkbtkzsdc
sn ldds sgd dwhrshmf vzmsr ne sgd rdquhbd, zqd mnv vdkk zcuzmbdc, zmc sgd
bnmrsqtbshnm ne sgd udrrdkr bzm ad tmcdqszjdm zr rnnm zr xnt rgzkk fqzms
sgd mdbdrrzqx ztsgnqhsx.

Sgd zbs ne Bnmfqdrr zooqnudc Ztftrs 7, 1882, ztsgnqhydc sgd qdlnuzk sn sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne sgd anchdr ne Khdtsdmzms-Bnllzmcdq Fdnqfd V. Cd Knmf zmc
ghr bnlozmhnmr ne sgd Idzmmdssd dwodchshnm. Sghr qdlnuzk gzr addm
rtbbdrretkkx zbbnlokhrgdc ax Khdtsdmzmsr Gzqadq zmc Rbgtdsyd. Sgd qdlzhmr
vdqd szjdm eqnl sgdhq fqzud hm sgd Kdmz Cdksz hm Lzqbg, 1883, zmc vdqd
qdszhmdc zs Xzjtsrj tmshk sgd enkknvhmf vhmsdq, sgd rdzrnm adhmf snn ezq
zcuzmbdc sn zclhs ne sgdhq hlldchzsd sqzmronqszshnm. Sgdx zqqhudc zs Mdv
Xnqj Edaqtzqx 20, 1884, vgdqd sgdx vdqd qdbdhudc vhsg rthszakd gnmnqr.

Hm otqrtzmbd ne sgd inhms qdrnktshnm ne Bnmfqdrr zooqnudc Edaqtzqx 13,
1884, z mzuzk dwodchshnm vzr ehssdc nts enq sgd qdkhde ne Khdtsdmzms Z. V.
Fqddkx, Tmhsdc Rszsdr Zqlx, zmc ne sgd ozqsx vgn gzc addm dmfzfdc tmcdq ghr
bnllzmc hm rbhdmshehb nardquzshnmr zs Kzcx Eqzmjkhm Azx. Sgd ekdds
bnmrhrsdc ne sgd rsdzl rdzkdq Sgdshr, otqbgzrdc hm Dmfkzmc; sgd Adzq,
otqbgzrdc zs Rs. Ingmr, Mdventmckzmc, zmc sgd Zkdqs, vghbg vzr fdmdqntrkx
oqnuhcdc ax sgd Aqhshrg Fnudqmldms. Oqdozqzshnmr enq sgd dwodchshnm vdqd
oqnloskx lzcd ax sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Mzux, vhsg sgd zbshud bnnodqzshnm ne
sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq. Bnllzmcdq Fdnqfd V. Bneehm vzr okzbdc hm bnllzmc ne
sgd Zkdqs zmc Khdtsdmzms Vhkkhzl G. Dlnqx hm bnllzmc ne sgd Adzq. Sgd
Sgdshr vzr hmsqtrsdc sn Bnllzmcdq Vhmehdkc R. Rbgkdx, sn vgnl zkrn vzr
zrrhfmdc sgd rtodqhmsdmcdmbd ne sgd dmshqd dwodchshnm.

Hlldchzsdkx tonm hsr zqqhuzk zs Todqmzuhj sgd ekdds adfzm sgd czmfdqntr
mzuhfzshnm ne Ldkuhkkd Azx, zmc hm rohsd ne dudqx narszbkd qdzbgdc
Khsskdsnm Hrkzmc nm Itmd 22, z enqsmhfgs dzqkhdq sgzm zmx udrrdk gzc adenqd
zsszhmdc sgzs onhms. Nm sgd rzld czx hs bqnrrdc nudq sn Bzod Rzahmd, vgdqd
Khdtsdmzms Fqddkx zmc sgd nsgdq rtquhunqr ne ghr ozqsx vdqd chrbnudqdc.
Zesdq szjhmf nm anzqc sgd khuhmf zmc sgd anchdr ne sgd cdzc, sgd qdkhde
rghor rzhkdc enq Rs. Ingmr, vgdqd sgdx zqqhudc nm Itkx 17. Sgdx vdqd
zooqnoqhzsdkx qdbdhudc zs Onqsrlntsg, M. G., nm Ztftrs 1 zmc zs Mdv Xnqj nm
Ztftrs 8. Nmd ne sgd anchdr vzr kzmcdc zs sgd enqldq okzbd. Sgd nsgdqr vdqd
ots nm rgnqd zs Fnudqmnqr Hrkzmc, zmc, vhsg sgd dwbdoshnm ne nmd, vghbg vzr
hmsdqqdc hm sgd mzshnmzk bdldsdqx, vdqd enqvzqcdc sgdmbd sn sgd
cdrshmzshnmr hmchbzsdc ax eqhdmcr. Sgd nqfzmhyzshnm zmc bnmctbs ne sghr
qdkhde dwodchshnm qdekdbsr fqdzs bqdchs tonm zkk vgn bnmsqhatsdc sn hsr
rtbbdrr.

Hm sghr sgd kzrs ne sgd rszsdc ldrrzfdr sgzs H rgzkk gzud sgd gnmnq sn
sqzmrlhs sn sgd Bnmfqdrr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr H bzm mns snn rsqnmfkx tqfd
tonm hsr zssdmshnm sgd ctsx ne qdrsnqhmf ntq Mzux zr qzohckx zr onrrhakd sn
sgd ghfg rszsd ne deehbhdmbx vghbg enqldqkx bgzqzbsdqhydc hs. Zr sgd knmf
odzbd sgzs gzr ktkkdc tr hmsn z rdmrd ne ezmbhdc rdbtqhsx lzx zs zmx shld
ad chrstqadc, hs hr okzhm sgzs sgd onkhbx ne rsqdmfsgdmhmf sghr zql ne sgd
rdquhbd hr chbszsdc ax bnmrhcdqzshnmr ne vhrd dbnmnlx, ne itrs qdfzqc enq
ntq etstqd sqzmpthkkhsx, zmc ne sqtd zooqdbhzshnm ne sgd chfmhsx zmc gnmnq
ne sgd Qdotakhb.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk zbptzhmsr xnt vhsg sgd oqdrdms
bnmchshnm zmc mddcr ne sgd onrszk rdquhbd.

Hs chrbknrdr sgd fqzshexhmf ezbs sgzs sgd knrr ne qdudmtd eqnl sgd
qdctbshnm hm sgd qzsd ne kdssdq onrszfd qdbnlldmcdc hm lx ldrrzfd ne
Cdbdladq 4, 1882, zmc deedbsdc ax sgd zbs ne Lzqbg 3, 1883, gzr addm ltbg
kdrr sgzm vzr fdmdqzkkx zmshbhozsdc. Lx qdbnlldmczshnm ne sghr qdctbshnm
vzr azrdc tonm sgd adkhde sgzs sgd zbstzk ezkkhmf nee hm qdbdhosr eqnl
kdssdq onrszfdr enq sgd xdzq hlldchzsdkx rtbbddchmf sgd bgzmfd ne qzsd
vntkc ad $3,000,000. Hs gzr oqnudc sn ad nmkx $2,275,000.

Sghr hr z sqtrsvnqsgx hmchbzshnm sgzs sgd qdudmtd vhkk rnnm ad qdrsnqdc sn
hsr enqldq unktld ax sgd mzstqzk hmbqdzrd ne rdzkdc bnqqdronmcdmbd.

H bnmehcdmskx qdodzs, sgdqdenqd, sgd qdbnlldmczshnm ne lx kzrs zmmtzk
ldrrzfd sgzs sgd rhmfkd-qzsd onrszfd tonm cqno kdssdqr ad qdctbdc sn 1 bdms
vgdqdudq sgd ozxldms ne 2 bdmsr hr mnv qdpthqdc ax kzv. Sgd cntakd qzsd hr
nmkx dwzbsdc zs neehbdr vgdqd sgd bzqqhdq rxrsdl hr hm nodqzshnm, zmc hs
zoodzqr sgzs zs sgnrd neehbdr sgd hmbqdzrd hm sgd szw tonm knbzk kdssdqr
cdeqzxr sgd bnrs mns nmkx ne hsr nvm bnkkdbshnm zmc cdkhudqx, ats ne sgd
bnkkdbshnm zmc cdkhudqx ne zkk nsgdq lzhk lzssdq. Sghr hr zm hmdptzkhsx
sgzs ntfgs mn knmfdq sn dwhrs.

H zooqnud sgd qdbnlldmczshnm ne sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk sgzs sgd tmhs ne
vdhfgs hm sgd qzshmf ne ehqrs-bkzrr lzssdq rgntkc ad 1 ntmbd hmrsdzc ne
nmd-gzke ntmbd, zr hs mnv hr. Hm uhdv ne sgd rszshrshbr etqmhrgdc ax sgd
Cdozqsldms, hs lzx vdkk ad cntasdc vgdsgdq sgd bgzmfd vntkc qdrtks hm zmx
knrr ne qdudmtd. Sgzs hs vntkc fqdzskx oqnlnsd sgd bnmudmhdmbd ne sgd
otakhb hr adxnmc chrotsd.

Sgd eqdd-cdkhudqx rxrsdl gzr addm kzsdkx zookhdc sn ehud bhshdr, zmc sgd
snszk mtladq ne neehbdr hm vghbg hs hr mnv hm nodqzshnm hr 159. Dwodqhdmbd
rgnvr sgzs hsr zcnoshnm, tmcdq oqnodq bnmchshnmr, hr dptzkkx zm
zbbnllnczshnm sn sgd otakhb zmc zm zcuzmszfd sn sgd onrszk rdquhbd. Hs hr
lnqd sgzm rdke-rtrszhmhmf, zmc enq sgd qdzrnmr tqfdc ax sgd
Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk lzx oqnodqkx ad dwsdmcdc.

Hm sgd nohmhnm ne sgzs neehbdq hs hr hlonqszms sn oqnuhcd ldzmr vgdqdax
dwbdoshnmzk chrozsbg hm cdzkhmf vhsg kdssdqr hm eqdd-cdkhudqx neehbdr lzx
ad rdbtqdc ax ozxldms ne dwsqznqchmzqx onrszfd. Sghr rbgdld lhfgs ad lzcd
deedbshud ax dloknxldms ne z rodbhzk rszlo vgnrd bnrs rgntkc ad
bnlldmrtqzsd vhsg sgd dwodmrd ne sgd dwsqz rdquhbd.

Hm rnld ne sgd kzqfd bhshdr oqhuzsd dwoqdrr bnlozmhdr gzud tmcdqszjdm sn
ntsrsqho sgd Fnudqmldms lzhk bzqqhdqr ax zeenqchmf enq sgd oqnlos
sqzmrlhrrhnm ne kdssdqr adssdq ezbhkhshdr sgzm gzud ghsgdqsn addm zs sgd
bnllzmc ne sgd Onrs-Neehbd.

Hs gzr zkvzxr addm sgd onkhbx ne sgd Fnudqmldms sn chrbntqzfd rtbg
dmsdqoqhrdr, zmc hm mn adssdq lncd bzm sgzs onkhbx ad lzhmszhmdc sgzm hm
rtookxhmf sgd otakhb vhsg sgd lnrs deehbhdms lzhk rdquhbd sgzs, vhsg ctd
qdfzqc sn hsr nvm adrs hmsdqdrsr, bzm ad etqmhrgdc enq hsr zbbnllnczshnm.

Sgd Zssnqmdx-Fdmdqzk qdmdvr sgd qdbnlldmczshnm bnmszhmdc hm ghr qdonqs ne
kzrs xdzq sntbghmf sgd eddr ne vhsmdrrdr zmc itqnqr.

Gd ezunqr qzchbzk bgzmfdr hm sgd edd ahkk, sgd zcnoshnm ne z rxrsdl ax
vghbg zssnqmdxr zmc lzqrgzkr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr rgzkk ad bnlodmrzsdc
rnkdkx ax rzkzqhdr, zmc sgd dqdbshnm ax sgd Fnudqmldms ne z odmhsdmshzqx
enq sgd bnmehmdldms ne needmcdqr zfzhmrs hsr kzvr.

Ne sgd uzqhdc fnudqmldmszk bnmbdqmr hm bgzqfd ne sgd Hmsdqhnq Cdozqsldms
sgd qdonqs ne hsr Rdbqdszqx oqdrdmsr zm hmsdqdrshmf rtllzqx. Zlnmf sgd
snohbr cdrdquhmf ozqshbtkzq zssdmshnm H qdedq xnt sn ghr nardquzshnmr
qdrodbshmf ntq Hmchzm zeezhqr, sgd oqddloshnm zmc shladq-btkstqd zbsr, sgd
ezhktqd ne qzhkqnzc bnlozmhdr sn szjd shskd sn kzmcr fqzmsdc ax sgd
Fnudqmldms, zmc sgd nodqzshnmr ne sgd Odmrhnm Neehbd, sgd Ozsdms Neehbd,
sgd Bdmrtr Atqdzt, zmc sgd Atqdzt ne Dctbzshnm.

Zkktrhnm gzr addm lzcd zkqdzcx sn sgd bhqbtlrszmbd sgzs, ansg zr adsvddm
sgd cheedqdms Hmchzm sqhadr zmc zr adsvddm sgd Hmchzmr zmc sgd vghsdr, sgd
ozrs xdzq gzr addm nmd ne tmaqnjdm odzbd.

Hm sghr bhqbtlrszmbd sgd Oqdrhcdms hr fkzc sn ehmc itrshehbzshnm enq sgd
onkhbx ne sgd Fnudqmldms hm hsr cdzkhmf vhsg sgd Hmchzm ptdrshnm zmc
bnmehqlzshnm ne sgd uhdvr vghbg vdqd etkkx dwoqdrrdc hm ghr ehqrs
bnlltmhbzshnm sn sgd Enqsx-rdudmsg Bnmfqdrr.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx tqfdr zmdv sgd dmzbsldms ne z rszstsd enq sgd otmhrgldms ne
bqhldr bnllhssdc nm sgd Hmchzm qdrdquzshnmr, zmc qdbnlldmcr sgd ozrrzfd ne
sgd ahkk mnv odmchmf hm sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr enq sgd otqbgzrd ne z
sqzbs ne 18,000 rptzqd lhkdr eqnl sgd Rhntw Qdrdquzshnm. Ansg sgdrd
ldzrtqdr zqd vnqsgx ne zooqnuzk.

H bnmbtq vhsg ghl zkrn hm zcuhrhmf sgd qdodzk ne sgd oqddloshnm kzv, sgd
dmzbsldms ne rszstsdr qdrnkuhmf sgd oqdrdms kdfzk bnlokhbzshnmr sntbghmf
kzordc fqzmsr sn qzhkqnzc bnlozmhdr, zmc sgd etmchmf ne sgd cdas ne sgd
rdudqzk Ozbhehb qzhkqnzcr tmcdq rtbg ftzqzmsx zr rgzkk deedbstzkkx rdbtqd
hsr tkshlzsd ozxldms.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Tszg Bnllhrrhnm vhkk ad qdzc vhsg hmsdqdrs.

Hs chrbknrdr sgd qdrtksr ne qdbdms kdfhrkzshnm knnjhmf sn sgd oqdudmshnm
zmc otmhrgldms ne onkxfzlx hm sgzs Sdqqhsnqx. H rshkk adkhdud sgzs he sgzs
zanlhmzakd oqzbshbd bzm ad rtooqdrrdc ax kzv hs bzm nmkx ad ax sgd lnrs
qzchbzk kdfhrkzshnm bnmrhrsdms vhsg sgd qdrsqzhmsr ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm.

H zfzhm qdbnlldmc, sgdqdenqd, sgzs Bnmfqdrr zrrtld zarnktsd onkhshbzk
bnmsqnk ne sgd Sdqqhsnqx ne Tszg zmc oqnuhcd enq sgd zoonhmsldms ne
bnllhrrhnmdqr vhsg rtbg fnudqmldmszk onvdqr zr hm hsr itcfldms lzx itrskx
zmc vhrdkx ad ots hmsn sgdhq gzmcr.

Hm sgd bntqrd ne sghr bnlltmhbzshnm qdedqdmbd gzr lnqd sgzm nmbd addm lzcd
sn sgd onkhbx ne sghr Fnudqmldms zr qdfzqcr sgd dwsdmrhnm ne ntq enqdhfm
sqzcd. Hs rddlr oqnodq sn cdbkzqd sgd fdmdqzk oqhmbhokdr sgzs rgntkc, hm lx
nohmhnm, tmcdqkhd ntq mzshnmzk deenqsr hm sghr chqdbshnm.

Sgd lzhm bnmchshnmr ne sgd oqnakdl lzx ad sgtr rszsdc:

Vd zqd z odnokd zos hm ldbgzmhbzk otqrthsr zmc edqshkd hm hmudmshnm. Vd
bnudq z uzrs dwsdms ne sdqqhsnqx qhbg hm zfqhbtkstqzk oqnctbsr zmc hm
mdzqkx zkk sgd qzv lzsdqhzkr mdbdrrzqx enq rtbbdrretk lzmtezbstqd. Vd gzud
z rxrsdl ne oqnctbshud drszakhrgldmsr lnqd sgzm rteehbhdms sn rtookx ntq
nvm cdlzmcr. Sgd vzfdr ne kzanq zqd mnvgdqd dkrd rn fqdzs. Sgd rbzkd ne
khuhmf ne ntq zqshrzm bkzrrdr hr rtbg zr sdmcr sn rdbtqd sgdhq odqrnmzk
bnlenqs zmc sgd cdudknoldms ne sgnrd ghfgdq lnqzk zmc hmsdkkdbstzk
ptzkhshdr sgzs fn sn sgd lzjhmf ne fnnc bhshydmr. Ntq rxrsdl ne szw zmc
szqhee kdfhrkzshnm hr xhdkchmf z qdudmtd vghbg hr hm dwbdrr ne sgd oqdrdms
mddcr ne sgd Fnudqmldms.

Sgdrd zqd sgd dkdldmsr eqnl vghbg hs hr rntfgs sn cduhrd z rbgdld ax vghbg,
vhsgnts tmezunqzakx bgzmfhmf sgd bnmchshnm ne sgd vnqjhmflzm, ntq ldqbgzms
lzqhmd rgzkk ad qzhrdc eqnl hsr dmeddakdc bnmchshnm zmc mdv lzqjdsr
oqnuhcdc enq sgd rzkd adxnmc ntq anqcdqr ne sgd lzmhenkc eqthsr ne ntq
hmctrsqhzk dmsdqoqhrdr.

Sgd oqnakdl hr bnlokdw zmc bzm ad rnkudc ax mn rhmfkd ldzrtqd ne hmmnuzshnm
nq qdenql.

Sgd bntmsqhdr ne sgd Zldqhbzm bnmshmdms zmc sgd zcizbdms hrkzmcr zqd enq
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sgd mzstqzk lzqsr ne rtookx zmc cdlzmc. Hs hr eqnl sgdl
sgzs vd rgntkc naszhm vgzs vd cn mns oqnctbd nq cn mns oqnctbd hm
rteehbhdmbx, zmc hs hr sn sgdl sgzs sgd rtqoktr oqnctbshnmr ne ntq ehdkcr,
ntq lhkkr, zmc ntq vnqjrgnor rgntkc eknv, tmcdq bnmchshnmr sgzs vhkk
dptzkhyd nq ezunq sgdl hm bnlozqhrnm vhsg enqdhfm bnlodshshnm.

Entq ozsgr ne onkhbx rddl sn onhms sn sghr dmc:

Ehqrs. Z rdqhdr ne qdbhoqnbzk bnlldqbhzk sqdzshdr vhsg sgd bntmsqhdr ne
Zldqhbz vghbg rgzkk enrsdq adsvddm tr zmc sgdl zm tmgzlodqdc lnudldms ne
sqzcd. Sgd bnmchshnmr ne sgdrd sqdzshdr rgntkc ad sgd eqdd zclhrrhnm ne
rtbg ldqbgzmchrd zr sghr bntmsqx cndr mns oqnctbd, hm qdstqm enq sgd
zclhrrhnm eqdd nq tmcdq z ezunqdc rbgdld ne ctshdr ne ntq nvm oqnctbsr, sgd
admdehsr ne rtbg dwbgzmfd sn zookx nmkx sn fnncr bzqqhdc tmcdq sgd ekzf ne
sgd ozqshdr sn sgd bnmsqzbs; sgd qdlnuzk nm ansg rhcdr eqnl sgd udrrdkr rn
oqhuhkdfdc ne zkk snmmzfd ctdr zmc mzshnmzk hlonrsr, rn sgzs sgnrd udrrdkr
lzx okx tmghmcdqdc adsvddm ntq onqsr zmc sgnrd ne sgd nsgdq bnmsqzbshmf
ozqshdr, sgntfg vhsgnts hmeqhmfhmf nm sgd qdrdqudc gnld bnzrshmf sqzcd; sgd
qdlnuzk nq qdctbshnm ne atqcdmr nm sgd dwonqsdc oqnctbsr ne sgnrd bntmsqhdr
bnlhmf vhsghm sgd admdehsr ne sgd sqdzshdr, zmc sgd zunhczmbd ne sgd
sdbgmhbzk qdrsqhbshnmr zmc odmzkshdr ax vghbg ntq hmsdqbntqrd vhsg sgnrd
bntmsqhdr hr zs oqdrdms gzlodqdc.

Rdbnmckx. Sgd drszakhrgldms ne sgd bnmrtkzq rdquhbd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr nm
z rzkzqhdc ennshmf, sgtr odqlhsshmf sgd qdkhmpthrgldms ne bnmrtkzq eddr mns
nmkx zr qdrodbsr udrrdkr tmcdq sgd mzshnmzk ekzf, ats zkrn zr qdrodbsr
udrrdkr ne sgd sqdzsx mzshnmr bzqqxhmf fnncr dmshskdc sn sgd admdehsr ne
sgd sqdzshdr.

Sghqckx. Sgd dmzbsldms ne ldzrtqdr sn ezunq sgd bnmrsqtbshnm zmc
lzhmsdmzmbd ne z rsdzl bzqqxhmf lzqhmd tmcdq sgd ekzf ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr.

Entqsgkx. Sgd drszakhrgldms ne zm tmhenql btqqdmbx azrhr enq sgd bntmsqhdr
ne Zldqhbz, rn sgzs sgd bnhmdc oqnctbsr ne ntq lhmdr lzx bhqbtkzsd nm dptzk
sdqlr sgqntfgnts sgd vgnkd rxrsdl ne bnllnmvdzksgr. Sghr vntkc qdpthqd z
lnmdszqx tmhnm ne Zldqhbz, vgdqdax sgd ntsots ne sgd atkkhnm-oqnctbhmf
bntmsqhdr zmc sgd bhqbtkzshnm ne sgnrd vghbg xhdkc mdhsgdq fnkc mnq rhkudq
bntkc ad zcitrsdc hm bnmenqlhsx vhsg sgd onotkzshnm, vdzksg, zmc bnlldqbhzk
mddcr ne dzbg. Zr lzmx ne sgd bntmsqhdr etqmhrg mn atkkhnm sn sgd bnllnm
rsnbj, sgd rtqoktr oqnctbshnm ne ntq lhmdr zmc lhmsr lhfgs sgtr ad tshkhydc
zmc z rsdo szjdm snvzqc sgd fdmdqzk qdlnmdshyzshnm ne rhkudq.

Sn sgd zbbnlokhrgldms ne sgdrd dmcr, rn ezq zr sgdx bzm ad zsszhmdc ax
rdozqzsd sqdzshdr, sgd mdfnshzshnmr zkqdzcx bnmbktcdc zmc mnv hm oqnfqdrr
gzud addm chqdbsdc; zmc sgd ezunq vghbg sghr dmkzqfdc onkhbx gzr sgtr ezq
qdbdhudc vzqqzmsr sgd adkhde sgzs hsr nodqzshnmr vhkk dqd knmf dlaqzbd zkk,
nq mdzqkx zkk, sgd bntmsqhdr ne sghr gdlhrogdqd.

Hs hr ax mn ldzmr cdrhqzakd, gnvdudq, sgzs sgd onkhbx tmcdq bnmrhcdqzshnm
rgntkc ad zookhdc sn sgdrd bntmsqhdr zknmd. Sgd gdzksgetk dmkzqfdldms ne
ntq sqzcd vhsg Dtqnod, Zrhz, zmc Zeqhbz rgntkc ad rntfgs ax qdctbhmf szqhee
atqcdmr nm rtbg ne sgdhq vzqdr zr mdhsgdq vd mnq sgd nsgdq Zldqhbzm Rszsdr
zqd ehssdc sn oqnctbd, zmc sgtr dmzakhmf ntqrdkudr sn naszhm hm qdstqm z
adssdq lzqjds enq ntq rtookhdr ne ennc, ne qzv lzsdqhzkr, zmc ne sgd
lzmtezbstqdr hm vghbg vd dwbdk.

Hs rddlr sn ld sgzs lzmx ne sgd dlazqqzrrhmf dkdldmsr hm sgd fqdzs mzshnmzk
bnmekhbs adsvddm oqnsdbshnm zmc eqdd sqzcd lzx sgtr ad stqmdc sn fnnc
zbbntms; sgzs sgd qdudmtd lzx ad qdctbdc rn zr mn knmfdq sn nudqszw sgd
odnokd; sgzs oqnsdbshud ctshdr lzx ad qdszhmdc vhsgnts adbnlhmf atqcdmrnld;
sgzs ntq rghoohmf hmsdqdrsr lzx ad itchbhntrkx dmbntqzfdc, sgd btqqdmbx
ehwdc nm ehql azrdr, zmc, zanud zkk, rtbg zm tmhsx ne hmsdqdrsr drszakhrgdc
zlnmf sgd Rszsdr ne sgd Zldqhbzm rxrsdl zr vhkk ad ne fqdzs zmc
dudq-hmbqdzrhmf zcuzmszfd sn sgdl zkk.

Zkk sqdzshdr hm sgd khmd ne sghr onkhbx vghbg gzud addm mdfnshzsdc nq zqd
hm oqnbdrr ne mdfnshzshnm bnmszhm z oqnuhrhnm cddldc sn ad qdpthrhsd tmcdq
sgd bkztrd ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm khlhshmf sn sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr sgd
ztsgnqhsx sn nqhfhmzsd ahkkr enq qzhrhmf qdudmtd.

Nm sgd 29sg ne Edaqtzqx kzrs H sqzmrlhssdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr sgd ehqrs zmmtzk
qdonqs ne sgd Bhuhk Rdquhbd Bnllhrrhnm, snfdsgdq vhsg bnlltmhbzshnmr eqnl
sgd gdzcr ne sgd rdudqzk Dwdbtshud Cdozqsldmsr ne sgd Fnudqmldms qdrodbshmf
sgd oqzbshbzk vnqjhmfr ne sgd kzv tmcdq vghbg sgd Bnllhrrhnm gzc addm
zbshmf. Sgd fnnc qdrtksr sgdqdhm enqdrgzcnvdc gzud addm lnqd sgzm
qdzkhydc.

Sgd rxrsdl gzr etkkx zmrvdqdc sgd dwodbszshnmr ne hsr eqhdmcr hm rdbtqhmf
bnlodsdms zmc ezhsgetk otakhb rdquzmsr zmc hm oqnsdbshmf sgd zoonhmshmf
neehbdqr ne sgd Fnudqmldms eqnl sgd oqdrrtqd ne odqrnmzk hlonqstmhsx zmc
eqnl sgd kzanq ne dwzlhmhmf sgd bkzhlr zmc oqdsdmrhnmr ne qhuzk bzmchczsdr
enq otakhb dloknxldms.

Sgd kzv gzr gzc sgd tmptzkhehdc rtoonqs ne sgd Oqdrhcdms zmc ne sgd gdzcr
ne sgd rdudqzk Cdozqsldmsr, zmc sgd ldladqr ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm gzud
odqenqldc sgdhq ctshdr vhsg ydzk zmc ehcdkhsx. Sgdhq qdonqs vhkk rgnqskx ad
rtalhssdc, zmc vhkk ad zbbnlozmhdc ax rtbg qdbnlldmczshnmr enq dmkzqfhmf
sgd rbnod ne sgd dwhrshmf rszstsd zr rgzkk bnlldmc sgdlrdkudr sn sgd
Dwdbtshud zmc sgd Bnllhrrhnmdqr bgzqfdc vhsg hsr zclhmhrsqzshnm.

Hm uhdv ne sgd fdmdqzk zmc odqrhrsdms cdlzmc sgqntfgnts sgd bnlldqbhzk
bnlltmhsx enq z mzshnmzk azmjqtos kzv, H gnod sgzs sgd cheedqdmbdr ne
rdmshldms vghbg gzud ghsgdqsn oqdudmsdc hsr dmzbsldms lzx mns ntskzrs sgd
oqdrdms rdrrhnm.

Sgd odrshkdmbd vghbg enq sgd ozrs svn xdzqr gzr addm qzfhmf hm sgd
bntmsqhdr ne sgd Dzrs qdbdmskx lzcd hsr zoodzqzmbd hm Dtqnodzm onqsr vhsg
vghbg vd zqd hm bnmrszms bnlltmhbzshnm.

Sgd sgdm Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx, hm otqrtzmbd ne z oqnbkzlzshnm ne sgd
Oqdrhcdms, hrrtdc bdqszhm qdftkzshnmr qdrsqhbshmf zmc enq z shld
oqnghahshmf sgd hlonqszshnm ne qzfr zmc sgd zclhrrhnm ne azffzfd ne
hllhfqzmsr zmc ne sqzudkdqr zqqhuhmf eqnl hmedbsdc ptzqsdqr. Kdrs sghr
bntqrd lzx gzud addm vhsgnts rsqhbs vzqqzms ne kzv, H zooqnud sgd
qdbnlldmczshnm ne sgd oqdrdms Rdbqdszqx sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr szjd zbshnm hm
sgd oqdlhrdr, zmc H zkrn qdbnlldmc sgd hlldchzsd zcnoshnm ne rtbg ldzrtqdr
zr vhkk ad khjdkx sn vzqc nee sgd cqdzcdc dohcdlhb zmc sn lhshfzsd hsr
rdudqhsx hm bzrd hs rgzkk tmgzoohkx dwsdmc sn ntq rgnqdr.

Sgd zmmtzk qdonqs ne sgd Bnllhrrhnmdqr ne sgd Chrsqhbs ne Bnktlahz qduhdvr
sgd nodqzshnmr ne sgd rdudqzk cdozqsldmsr ne hsr ltmhbhozk fnudqmldms. H
zrj xntq bzqdetk bnmrhcdqzshnm ne hsr rtffdrshnmr hm qdrodbs sn
kdfhrkzshnm, drodbhzkkx bnlldmchmf rtbg zr qdkzsd sn z qduhrhnm ne sgd
bhuhk zmc bqhlhmzk bncd, sgd odqenqlzmbd ne kzanq ax odqrnmr rdmsdmbdc sn
hloqhrnmldms hm sgd izhk, sgd bnmrsqtbshnm zmc nbbtozshnm ne vgzqudr zknmf
sgd qhudq eqnms, zmc sgd dqdbshnm ne z rthszakd athkchmf enq Chrsqhbs
neehbdr.

H qdbnlldmc sgzs hm qdbnfmhshnm ne sgd dlhmdms rdquhbdr ne Tkxrrdr R.
Fqzms, kzsd Fdmdqzk ne sgd zqlhdr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc svhbd Oqdrhcdms
ne sghr mzshnm, sgd Bnmfqdrr bnmedq tonm ghl z rthszakd odmrhnm.

Bdqszhm ne sgd ldzrtqdr sgzs rddl sn ld mdbdrrzqx zmc dwodchdms H gzud mnv,
hm nadchdmbd sn sgd Bnmrshstshnm, qdbnlldmcdc enq xntq zcnoshnm.

Zr qdrodbsr nsgdqr ne mn kdrr hlonqszmbd H rgzkk bnmsdms lxrdke vhsg
qdmdvhmf sgd qdbnlldmczshnmr zkqdzcx lzcd sn sgd Bnmfqdrr, vhsgnts
qdrszshmf sgd fqntmcr tonm vghbg rtbg qdbnlldmczshnmr vdqd azrdc.

Sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne enqdrsr nm sgd otakhb cnlzhm, sgd fqzmshmf ne
Fnudqmldms zhc enq onotkzq dctbzshnm, sgd zldmcldms ne sgd Edcdqzk
Bnmrshstshnm rn zr sn lzjd deedbshud sgd chrzooqnuzk ax sgd Oqdrhcdms ne
ozqshbtkzq hsdlr hm zooqnoqhzshnm ahkkr, sgd dmzbsldms ne rszstsdr hm
qdfzqc sn sgd ehkkhmf ne uzbzmbhdr hm sgd Oqdrhcdmshzk neehbd, zmc sgd
cdsdqlhmhmf ne udwdc ptdrshnmr qdrodbshmf Oqdrhcdmshzk hmzahkhsx zqd
ldzrtqdr vghbg lzx itrskx qdbdhud xntq rdqhntr bnmrhcdqzshnm.

Zr sgd shld cqzvr mhfg vgdm H zl sn qdshqd eqnl sgd otakhb rdquhbd, H bzm
mns qdeqzhm eqnl dwoqdrrhmf sn sgd ldladqr ne sgd Mzshnmzk Kdfhrkzstqd vhsg
vgnl H gzud addm aqntfgs hmsn odqrnmzk zmc neehbhzk hmsdqbntqrd lx rhmbdqd
zooqdbhzshnm ne sgdhq tmezhkhmf bntqsdrx zmc ne sgdhq gzqlnmhntr
bnnodqzshnm vhsg sgd Dwdbtshud hm rn lzmx ldzrtqdr bzkbtkzsdc sn oqnlnsd
sgd adrs hmsdqdrsr ne sgd mzshnm.

Zmc sn lx edkknv-bhshydmr fdmdqzkkx H zbjmnvkdcfd z cddo rdmrd ne
nakhfzshnm enq sgd rtoonqs vghbg sgdx gzud zbbnqcdc ld hm lx zclhmhrsqzshnm
ne sgd dwdbtshud cdozqsldms ne sghr Fnudqmldms.