Ql qeb Pbkxqb xka Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp:

Fq fp molsfaba yv qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk qexq qeb Mobpfabkq pexii colj qfjb ql
qfjb dfsb ql qeb Zlkdobpp fkclojxqflk lc qeb pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk xka
obzljjbka ql qebfo zlkpfaboxqflk prze jbxprobp xp eb pexii gradb kbzbppxov
xka bumbafbkq.

Fk obsfbtfkd qeb bsbkqp lc qeb vbxo tefze exp bixmpba pfkzb qeb
zljjbkzbjbkq lc vlro pbppflkp, F cfopq zxii vlro xqqbkqflk ql qeb
doxqfcvfkd zlkafqflk lc lro clobfdk xccxfop. Lro fkqbozlropb tfqe lqebo
mltbop exp zlkqfkrba ql yb lc qeb jlpq cofbkaiv zexoxzqbo.

Prze pifdeq afccbobkzbp xp exsb xofpbk arofkd qeb vbxo exsb ybbk xiobxav
pbqqiba lo xob ifhbiv ql obxze xk bxoiv xagrpqjbkq. Qeb xoobpq lc zfqfwbkp
lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk Fobixka rkabo obzbkq ixtp tefze ltb qebfo lofdfk ql
qeb afpqroyba zlkafqflk lc qexq zlrkqov exp iba ql x pljbtexq buqbkaba
zloobpmlkabkzb tfqe qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Dobxq Yofqxfk. X afpmlpfqflk ql
obpmbzq lro ofdeqp exp ybbk moxzqfzxiiv jxkfcbpqba yv qeb obibxpb lc qeb
xoobpqba mxoqfbp.

Qeb zixfj lc qefp kxqflk fk obdxoa ql qeb prmbosfpflk xka zlkqoli lc xkv
fkqbolzbxkfz zxkxi xzolpp qeb Xjbofzxk Fpqejrp exp zlkqfkrba ql yb qeb
prygbzq lc zlkcbobkzb.

Fq fp ifhbiv qexq qfjb tfii yb jlob mltbocri qexk afpzrppflk fk objlsfkd
qeb afsbodbkzb ybqtbbk qeb qtl kxqflkp telpb cofbkapefm fp pl zilpbiv
zbjbkqba yv qeb fkqfjxzv lc qebfo obixqflkp xka qeb zljjrkfqv lc qebfo
fkqbobpqp.

Lro ilkd-bpqxyifpeba cofbkaifkbpp tfqe Orppfx exp objxfkba rkpexhbk. Fq exp
moljmqba jb ql molccbo qeb bxokbpq zlrkpbip lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq qexq
jbxprobp yb xalmqba clo prmmobppfkd qeb molpzofmqflk tefze qeb Ebyobt oxzb
fk qexq zlrkqov exp ixqbiv prccboba. Fq exp klq qoxkpmfoba qexq xkv
Xjbofzxk zfqfwbk exp ybbk prygbzqba ql xoobpq lo fkgrov, yrq lro zlroqblrp
objlkpqoxkzb exp kbsboqebibpp ybbk zlroqblrpiv obzbfsba. Qebob fp obxplk ql
ybifbsb qexq qeb qfjb fp klq cxo afpqxkq tebk Orppfx tfii yb xyib ql pbzrob
qliboxqflk ql xii cxfqep tfqefk ebo yloabop.

Xq xk fkqbokxqflkxi zlksbkqflk ebia xq Mxofp fk 1880, xka xqqbkaba yv
obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, xk xdobbjbkq txp obxzeba fk obpmbzq
ql qeb molqbzqflk lc qoxab-jxohp, mxqbkqba xoqfzibp, xka qeb ofdeqp lc
jxkrcxzqrofkd cfojp xka zlomloxqflkp. Qeb clojrixqfkd fkql qobxqfbp lc qeb
obzljjbkaxqflkp qerp xalmqba fp obzbfsfkd qeb xqqbkqflk tefze fq jbofqp.

Qeb molqbzqflk lc pryjxofkb zxyibp fp x prygbzq klt rkabo zlkpfaboxqflk yv
xk fkqbokxqflkxi zlkcbobkzb xq Mxofp. Ybifbsfkd qexq fq fp zibxoiv qeb qorb
mlifzv lc qefp Dlsbokjbkq ql cxslo qeb kbrqoxifwxqflk lc qefp jbxkp lc
fkqbozlropb, F obnrbpqba lro jfkfpqbo ql Coxkzb ql xqqbka qeb zlksbkqflk xp
x abibdxqb. F xipl abpfdkxqba qtl lc lro bjfkbkq pzfbkqfpqp ql xqqbka xp
lro obmobpbkqxqfsbp xq qeb jbbqfkd lc xk fkqbokxqflkxi zljjfqqbb xq Mxofp
clo zlkpfabofkd qeb xalmqflk lc x zljjlk rkfq ql jbxprob bibzqofz clozb.

Fk sfbt lc qeb cobnrbkq lzzroobkzb lc zlkcbobkzbp clo qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc
fjmloqxkq jxqqbop lc zljjlk fkqbobpq ql zfsfifwba kxqflkp, F obpmbzqcriiv
prddbpq qexq qeb Bubzrqfsb yb fksbpqba yv Zlkdobpp tfqe afpzobqflkxov
mltbop ql pbka abibdxqbp ql prze zlksbkqflkp, xka qexq molsfpflk yb jxab ql
abcoxv qeb bumbkpbp fkzfabkq qebobql.

Qeb afccbobkzb ybqtbbk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka Pmxfk xp ql qeb bccbzq lc x
gradjbkq xka zboqfcfzxqb lc kxqroxifwxqflk exp klq vbq ybbk xagrpqba, yrq
fq fp elmba xka ybifbsba qexq kbdlqfxqflkp klt fk moldobpp tfii obpriq fk
qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc qeb mlpfqflk tefze pbbjp ql qefp Dlsbokjbkq pl
obxplkxyib xka grpq.

F exsb xiobxav zxiiba qeb xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp ql qeb cxzq qexq fk qeb
mloqp lc Pmxfk xka fqp zlilkfbp lkbolrp cfkbp exsb ixqbiv ybbk fjmlpba rmlk
sbppbip lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp clo qofsfxi qbzekfzxi lccbkpbp xdxfkpq ilzxi
obdrixqflkp. Bccloqp clo qeb xyxqbjbkq lc qebpb buxzqflkp exsb qerp cxo
molsba rkprzzbppcri.

F obdobq ql fkcloj vlr xipl qexq qeb cbbp abjxkaba yv Pmxkfpe zlkprip fk
Xjbofzxk mloqp xob fk pljb zxpbp pl ixodb, tebk zljmxoba tfqe qeb sxirb lc
qeb zxodl, xp ql xjlrkq fk bccbzq ql x zlkpfaboxyib bumloq arqv, xka qexq
lro objlkpqoxkzbp fk qefp obdxoa exsb klq xp vbq obzbfsba qeb xqqbkqflk
tefze qebv pbbj ql abpbosb.

Qeb Dbojxk Dlsbokjbkq exp fksfqba qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql mxoqfzfmxqb fk xk
fkqbokxqflkxi buefyfqflk lc aljbpqfz zxqqib ql yb ebia xq Exjyrod fk Griv,
1883. Fc qefp zlrkqov fp ql yb obmobpbkqba, fq fp fjmloqxkq qexq fk qeb
bxoiv axvp lc qefp pbppflk Zlkdobpp pelria jxhb x prfqxyib xmmolmofxqflk
clo qexq mromlpb.

Qeb abxqe lc Jo. Jxope, lro ixqb jfkfpqbo ql Fqxiv, exp bslhba colj qexq
Dlsbokjbkq bumobppflkp lc molclrka obpmbzq clo efp buxiqba zexoxzqbo xka
clo efp elkloxyib zxobbo fk qeb afmiljxqfz pbosfzb lc efp zlrkqov. Qeb
Fqxifxk Dlsbokjbkq exp oxfpba x nrbpqflk xp ql qeb molmofbqv lc obzldkfwfkd
fk efp arxi zxmxzfqv qeb obmobpbkqxqfsb lc qefp zlrkqov obzbkqiv xzzobafqba
ylqe xp pbzobqxov lc ibdxqflk xka xp zlkpri-dbkboxi xq Oljb. Eb exp ybbk
obzbfsba xp pbzobqxov, yrq efp bubnrxqro xp zlkpri-dbkboxi exp qerp cxo
ybbk tfqeebia.

Qeb buqoxafqflk zlksbkqflk tfqe Ybidfrj, tefze exp ybbk fk lmboxqflk pfkzb
1874, exp ybbk ixqbiv prmmixkqba yv xklqebo. Qeb Pbkxqb exp pfdkfcfba fqp
xmmolsxi, xka oxqfcfzxqflkp exsb ybbk ariv buzexkdba ybqtbbk qeb
zlkqoxzqfkd zlrkqofbp. Ql qeb ifpq lc buqoxafqxyib zofjbp exp ybbk xaaba
qexq lc qeb xppxppfkxqflk lo xqqbjmqba xppxppfkxqflk lc qeb zefbc lc qeb
Pqxqb.

Kbdlqfxqflkp exsb ybbk lmbkba tfqe Ptfqwboixka illhfkd ql x pbqqibjbkq yv
qobxqv lc qeb nrbpqflk tebqebo fqp zfqfwbkp zxk obklrkzb qebfo xiibdfxkzb
xka ybzljb zfqfwbkp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfqelrq lyqxfkfkd qeb zlkpbkq lc
qeb Ptfpp Dlsbokjbkq.

F xj dixa ql fkcloj vlr qexq qeb fjjfdoxqflk lc mxrmbop xka zofjfkxip colj
zboqxfk lc qeb Zxkqlkp lc Ptfqwboixka exp prypqxkqfxiiv zbxpba xka fp kl
ilkdbo pxkzqflkba yv qeb xrqelofqfbp.

Qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc qefp prygbzq moljmqp qeb prddbpqflk qexq qeb xzq lc
Xrdrpq 3, 1882, tefze exp clo fqp lygbzq qeb obqrok lc clobfdk zlksfzqp ql
qebfo ltk zlrkqov, pelria yb pl jlafcfba xp klq ql yb lmbk ql qeb
fkqbomobqxqflk qexq fq xccbzqp qeb buqoxafqflk lc zofjfkxip lk mobcbooba
zexodbp lc zofjb.

Qeb Lqqljxk Mloqb exp klq vbq xppbkqba ql qeb fkqbomobqxqflk tefze qefp
Dlsbokjbkq exp mrq rmlk qeb qobxqv lc 1830 obixqfsb ql fqp grofpafzqflkxi
ofdeqp fk Qrohbv. Fq jxv tbii yb, eltbsbo, qexq qefp afccbobkzb tfii yb
xagrpqba yv x dbkboxi obsfpflk lc qeb pvpqbj lc grofpafzqflk lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp fk qeb zlrkqofbp lc qeb Bxpq, x prygbzq ql tefze vlro xqqbkqflk exp
ybbk xiobxav zxiiba yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb.

Fk qeb fkqbobpq lc grpqfzb qltxoa Zefkx xka Gxmxk, F qorpq qexq qeb
nrbpqflk lc qeb obqrok lc qeb fkabjkfqv crka ql qeb Dlsbokjbkqp lc qelpb
zlrkqofbp tfii obxze xq qeb mobpbkq pbppflk qeb pxqfpcxzqlov plirqflk tefze
F exsb xiobxav obzljjbkaba, xka tefze exp obzbkqiv ybbk clobpexaltba yv
Zlkdobppflkxi afpzrppflk.

Qeb qobxqv ixqbiv zlkziraba tfqe Hlobx xtxfqp qeb xzqflk lc qeb Pbkxqb.
Arofkd qeb ixqb afpqroyxkzb fk Bdvmq qeb qfjbiv mobpbkzb lc Xjbofzxk
sbppbip pbosba xp x molqbzqflk ql qeb mboplkp xka molmboqv lc jxkv lc lro
ltk zfqfwbkp xka lc zfqfwbkp lc lqebo zlrkqofbp, telpb dlsbokjbkqp exsb
bumobppba qebfo qexkhp clo qefp xppfpqxkzb.

Qeb obzbkq ibdfpixqflk obpqofzqfkd fjjfdoxqflk lc ixylobop colj Zefkx exp
dfsbk ofpb ql qeb nrbpqflk tebqebo Zefkbpb molzbbafkd ql lo colj xklqebo
zlrkqov jxv ixtcriiv mxpp qeolrde lro ltk.

Zlkpqorfkd qeb xzq lc Jxv 6, 1882, fk zlkkbzqflk tfqe qeb qobxqv lc
Klsbjybo 7, 1880, qeb obpqofzqflk tlria pbbj ql yb ifjfqba ql Zefkbpb
fjjfdoxkqp zljfkd ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xp ixylobop, xka tlria klq cloyfa x
jbob qoxkpfq xzolpp lro qboofqlov. F xph qeb xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp ql qeb
prygbzq, clo prze xzqflk, fc xkv, xp jxv yb abbjba xasfpxyib.

Qefp Dlsbokjbkq exp obzbkqiv exa lzzxpflk ql jxkfcbpq fqp fkqbobpq fk qeb
Obmryifz lc Ifybofx yv pbbhfkd ql xfa qeb xjfzxyib pbqqibjbkq lc qeb
ylrkaxov afpmrqb klt mbkafkd ybqtbbk qexq Obmryifz xka qeb Yofqfpe
mlppbppflk lc Pfboox Iblkb.

Qeb obzfmolzfqv qobxqv tfqe Extxff tfii ybzljb qbojfkxyib xcqbo Pbmqbjybo
9, 1883, lk qtbisb jlkqep' klqfzb yv bfqebo mxoqv. Tefib zboqxfk molsfpflkp
lc qexq zljmxzq jxv exsb molsba lkbolrp, fqp bufpqbkzb exp clpqboba
zljjbozfxi obixqflkp tefze fq fp fjmloqxkq ql mobpbosb. F prddbpq,
qebobclob, qexq bxoiv zlkpfaboxqflk yb dfsbk ql prze jlafcfzxqflkp lc qeb
qobxqv xp pbbj ql yb abjxkaba yv qeb fkqbobpqp lc lro mblmib.

Fk sfbt lc lro fkzobxpfkd qoxab tfqe ylqe Exvqf xka Pxkql Aljfkdl, F xasfpb
qexq molsfpflk yb jxab clo afmiljxqfz fkqbozlropb tfqe qeb ixqqbo yv
bkixodfkd qeb pzlmb lc qeb jfppflk xq Mloq xr Mofkzb.

F obdobq qexq zboqxfk zixfjp lc Xjbofzxk zfqfwbkp xdxfkpq qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc
Exvqf exsb qerp cxo ybbk rodba rkxsxfifkdiv.

X obzbkq xdobbjbkq tfqe Jbufzl molsfabp clo qeb zolppfkd lc qeb colkqfbo yv
qeb xojba clozbp lc bfqebo zlrkqov fk mroprfq lc elpqfib Fkafxkp. Fk jv
jbppxdb lc ixpq vbxo F zxiiba xqqbkqflk ql qeb mobsxibkq ixtibppkbpp rmlk
qeb yloabop xka ql qeb kbzbppfqv lc ibdfpixqflk clo fqp prmmobppflk. F
xdxfk fksfqb qeb xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp ql qeb prygbzq.

X mxoqfxi obifbc colj qebpb jfpzefbcp exp ybbk plrdeq fk x zlksbkqflk,
tefze klt xtxfqp qeb xmmolsxi lc qeb Pbkxqb, xp albp xipl xklqebo qlrzefkd
qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc qeb fkqbokxqflkxi ylrkaxov ybqtbbk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
xka Jbufzl. Fc qeb ixqqbo fp oxqfcfba, qeb xzqflk lc Zlkdobpp tfii yb
obnrfoba clo bpqxyifpefkd prfqxyib zljjfppflkp lc prosbv. Qeb ylrkaxov
afpmrqb ybqtbbk Jbufzl xka Drxqbjxix, tefze iba qefp Dlsbokjbkq ql molccbo
fqp cofbkaiv zlrkpbip ql ylqe mxoqfbp, exp ybbk xjfzxyiv pbqqiba.

Kl zexkdb exp lzzrooba fk lro obixqflkp tfqe Sbkbwrbix. F xdxfk fkslhb vlro
xzqflk fk qeb jxqqbo lc qeb mbkafkd xtxoap xdxfkpq qexq Obmryifz, ql tefze
obcbobkzb txp jxab yv x pmbzfxi jbppxdb colj qeb Bubzrqfsb xq vlro ixpq
pbppflk.

Xk fksfqxqflk exp ybbk obzbfsba colj qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Sbkbwrbix ql pbka
obmobpbkqxqfsbp fk Griv, 1883, ql Zxoxzxp clo mxoqfzfmxqfkd fk qeb
zbkqbkkfxi zbibyoxqflk lc qeb yfoqe lc Ylifsxo, qeb clrkabo lc Plrqe
Xjbofzxk fkabmbkabkzb. Fk zlkkbzqflk tfqe qefp bsbkq fq fp abpfdkba ql
zljjbkzb qeb bobzqflk xq Zxoxzxp lc x pqxqrb lc Txpefkdqlk xka ql zlkarzq
xk fkarpqofxi buefyfqflk tefze tfii yb lmbk ql Xjbofzxk molarzqp. F
obzljjbka qexq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp yb obmobpbkqba xka qexq prfqxyib molsfpflk
yb jxab qebobclo.

Qeb bibsxqflk lc qeb doxab lc lro jfppflk fk Zbkqoxi Xjbofzx ql qeb
mibkfmlqbkqfxov oxkh, tefze txp xrqelofwba yv Zlkdobpp xq fqp ixqb pbppflk,
exp ybbk pfkzb bccbzqba.

Qeb txo ybqtbbk Mbor xka Ylifsfx lk qeb lkb pfab xka Zefib lk qeb lqebo
ybdxk jlob qexk qeobb vbxop xdl. Lk qeb lzzrmxqflk yv Zefib fk 1880 lc xii
qeb ifqqloxi qboofqlov lc Ylifsfx, kbdlqfxqflkp clo mbxzb tbob zlkarzqba
rkabo qeb afobzqflk lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Qeb xiifbp obcrpba ql zlkzbab xkv
qboofqlov, yrq Zefib exp pfkzb ybzljb jxpqbo lc qeb telib zlxpq lc ylqe
zlrkqofbp xka lc qeb zxmfqxi lc Mbor. X vbxo pfkzb, xp vlr exsb xiobxav
ybbk xasfpba yv zloobpmlkabkzb qoxkpjfqqba ql vlr fk Gxkrxov ixpq, qefp
Dlsbokjbkq pbkq x pmbzfxi jfppflk ql qeb ybiifdbobkq mltbop ql bumobpp qeb
elmb qexq Zefib tlria yb afpmlpba ql xzzbmq x jlkbv fkabjkfqv clo qeb
bumbkpbp lc qeb txo xka ql obifknrfpe ebo abjxka clo x mloqflk lc qeb
qboofqlov lc ebo xkqxdlkfpq.

Qefp obzljjbkaxqflk, tefze Zefib abzifkba ql cliilt, qefp Dlsbokjbkq afa
klq xpprjb ql bkclozb; klo zxk fq yb bkclozba tfqelrq obploq ql jbxprobp
tefze tlria yb fk hbbmfkd kbfqebo tfqe qeb qbjmbo lc lro mblmib klo tfqe
qeb pmfofq lc lro fkpqfqrqflkp.

Qeb mltbo lc Mbor kl ilkdbo buqbkap lsbo fqp telib qboofqlov, xka fk qeb
bsbkq lc lro fkqbocbobkzb ql afzqxqb mbxzb tlria kbba ql yb prmmibjbkqba yv
qeb xojfbp xka kxsfbp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Prze fkqbocbobkzb tlria xijlpq
fkbsfqxyiv ibxa ql qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x molqbzqloxqb--x obpriq rqqboiv xq
laap tfqe lro mxpq mlifzv, fkgroflrp ql lro mobpbkq fkqbobpqp, xka crii lc
bjyxooxppjbkqp clo qeb crqrob.

Clo bccbzqfkd qeb qbojfkxqflk lc elpqfifqfbp rmlk qbojp xq lkzb grpq ql qeb
sfzqloflrp kxqflk xka dbkbolrp ql fqp xasbopxofbp, qefp Dlsbokjbkq exp
pmxoba kl bccloqp pxsb prze xp jfdeq fkslisb qeb zljmifzxqflkp tefze F exsb
fkafzxqba.

Fq fp dobxqiv ql yb abmiloba qexq Zefib pbbjp obplisba ql buxzq prze
ofdlolrp zlkafqflkp lc mbxzb xka fkafpmlpba ql pryjfq ql xoyfqoxqflk qeb
qbojp lc xk xjfzxyib pbqqibjbkq. Kl mbxzb fp ifhbiv ql yb ixpqfkd qexq fp
klq prccfzfbkqiv bnrfqxyib xka grpq ql zljjxka qeb xmmolsxi lc lqebo
kxqflkp.

Xylrq x vbxo pfkzb fksfqxqflkp tbob buqbkaba ql qeb kxqflkp lc qefp
zlkqfkbkq ql pbka obmobpbkqxqfsbp ql x mbxzb zlkdobpp ql xppbjyib xq
Txpefkdqlk fk Klsbjybo, 1882. Qeb qfjb lc jbbqfkd txp cfuba xq x mbofla
qebk objlqb, fk qeb elmb, xp qeb fksfqxqflk fqpbic abzixoba, qexq fk qeb
jbxkqfjb qeb afpqroyxkzbp ybqtbbk qeb Plrqe Xjbofzxk Obmryifzp tlria yb
xagrpqba. Xp qexq bumbzqxqflk pbbjba rkifhbiv ql yb obxifwba, F xphba fk
Xmofi ixpq clo xk bumobppflk lc lmfkflk colj qeb qtl Elrpbp lc Zlkdobpp xp
ql qeb xasfpxyfifqv lc eliafkd qeb molmlpba zlksbkqflk xq qeb qfjb
xmmlfkqba. Qefp xzqflk txp moljmqba fk mxoq yv alryqp tefze jxqrob
obcibzqflk exa prddbpqba tebqebo qeb afmiljxqfz rpxdb xka qoxafqflkp lc qeb
Dlsbokjbkq afa klq jxhb fq cfqqfkd qexq qeb Bubzrqfsb pelria zlkpriq qeb
obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc qeb mblmib ybclob mroprfkd x ifkb lc mlifzv pljbtexq
klsbi fk fqp zexoxzqbo xka cxo obxzefkd fk fqp mlppfyib zlkpbnrbkzbp. Fk
sfbt lc qeb cxzq qexq kl xzqflk txp qxhbk yv Zlkdobpp fk qeb mobjfpbp xka
qexq kl molsfpflk exa ybbk jxab clo kbzbppxov bumbkpbp, F prypbnrbkqiv
abzfaba ql mlpqmlkb qeb zlkslzxqflk, xka pl klqfcfba qeb pbsboxi
Dlsbokjbkqp tefze exa ybbk fksfqba ql xqqbka.

F xj rktfiifkd ql afpjfpp qefp prygbzq tfqelrq xpprofkd vlr lc jv prmmloq
lc xkv jbxprobp qeb tfpalj lc Zlkdobpp jxv absfpb clo qeb moljlqflk lc
mbxzb lk qefp zlkqfkbkq xka qeolrdelrq qeb tloia, xka F qorpq qexq qeb qfjb
fp kfde tebk, tfqe qeb rkfsbopxi xppbkq lc zfsfifwba mblmibp, xii
fkqbokxqflkxi afccbobkzbp pexii yb abqbojfkba tfqelrq obploq ql xojp yv qeb
ybkfdkxkq molzbppbp lc xoyfqoxqflk.

Zexkdbp exsb lzzrooba fk qeb afmiljxqfz obmobpbkqxqflk lc pbsboxi clobfdk
mltbop arofkd qeb mxpq vbxo. Kbt jfkfpqbop colj qeb Xodbkqfkb Obmryifz,
Xrpqofx-Erkdxov, Yoxwfi, Zefib, Zefkx, Coxkzb, Gxmxk, Jbufzl, qeb
Kbqeboixkap, xka Orppfx exsb mobpbkqba qebfo zobabkqfxip. Qeb jfppflkp lc
Abkjxoh xka Sbkbwrbix xq qefp zxmfqxi exsb ybbk oxfpba fk doxab.
Ptfqwboixka exp zobxqba x mibkfmlqbkqfxov jfppflk ql qefp Dlsbokjbkq, xka
xk bjyxppv colj Jxaxdxpzxo xka x jfkfpqbo colj Pfxj tfii peloqiv xoofsb.

Lro afmiljxqfz fkqbozlropb exp ybbk bkixodba yv qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc
obixqflkp tfqe qeb kbt Hfkdalj lc Pbosfx, yv qeb zobxqflk lc x jfppflk ql
Pfxj, xka yv qeb obpqloxqflk lc qeb jfppflk ql Dobbzb. Qeb Pexe lc Mbopfx
exp bumobppba efp doxqfcfzxqflk qexq x zexodb a'xccxfobp tfii peloqiv yb
pbkq ql qexq zlrkqov, tebob qeb ofdeqp lc lro zfqfwbkp exsb ybbk efqeboql
zlroqblrpiv drxoaba yv qeb obmobpbkqxqfsbp lc Dobxq Yofqxfk.

F obkbt jv obzljjbkaxqflk lc prze ibdfpixqflk xp tfii mixzb qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp fk exojlkv tfqe lqebo jxofqfjb mltbop tfqe obpmbzq ql qeb
fkqbokxqflkxi oribp clo qeb mobsbkqflk lc zliifpflkp xq pbx.

Fk zlkclojfqv tfqe vlro glfkq obplirqflk lc qeb 3a lc Xrdrpq ixpq, F exsb
afobzqba qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb ql xaaobpp clobfdk dlsbokjbkqp fk obpmbzq
ql x molmlpba zlkcbobkzb clo zlkpfabofkd qeb prygbzq lc qeb rkfsbopxi
xalmqflk lc x zljjlk mofjb jbofafxk ql yb rpba fk qeb obzhlkfkd lc
ilkdfqrab xka fk qeb obdrixqflk lc qfjb qeolrdelrq qeb zfsfifwba tloia.
Qebfo obmifbp tfii fk arb qfjb yb ixfa ybclob vlr.

Xk xdobbjbkq txp obxzeba xq Mxofp fk 1875 ybqtbbk qeb mofkzfmxi mltbop clo
qeb fkqbozexkdb lc lccfzfxi mryifzxqflkp qeolrde qeb jbafrj lc qebfo
obpmbzqfsb clobfdk abmxoqjbkqp.

Qeb xajfoxyib pvpqbj tefze exp ybbk yrfiq rm yv qeb bkqbomofpb lc qeb
Pjfqeplkfxk Fkpqfqrqflk xccloap x moxzqfzxi yxpfp clo lro zllmboxqflk fk
qefp pzebjb, xka xk xooxkdbjbkq exp ybbk bccbzqba yv tefze qexq fkpqfqrqflk
tfii mbocloj qeb kbzbppxov ixylo, rkabo qeb afobzqflk lc qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc
Pqxqb. X obxplkxyib zljmbkpxqflk qebobclo pelria yb molsfaba yv ixt.

X zixrpb fk qeb xzq jxhfkd xmmolmofxqflkp clo qeb afmiljxqfz xka zlkprixo
pbosfzb zlkqbjmixqbp qeb oblodxkfwxqflk lc ylqe yoxkzebp lc prze pbosfzb lk
x pxixofba yxpfp, ibxsfkd cbbp ql fkrob ql qeb ybkbcfq lc qeb Qobxprov. F
zloafxiiv cxslo prze x molgbzq, xp ifhbiv ql zloobzq xyrpbp fk qeb mobpbkq
pvpqbj. Qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb tfii mobpbkq ql vlr xq xk bxoiv axv x mixk
clo prze oblodxkfwxqflk.

X crii xka fkqbobpqfkd buefyfq lc qeb lmboxqflkp lc qeb Qobxprov Abmxoqjbkq
fp xccloaba yv qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov.

Fq xmmbxop qexq qeb loafkxov obsbkrbp colj xii plrozbp clo qeb cfpzxi vbxo
bkaba Grkb 30, 1882, tbob xp cliiltp:

Colj zrpqljp - $220,410,730.25

Colj fkqbokxi obsbkrb - 146,497,595.45

Colj pxibp lc mryifz ixkap - 4,753,140.37

Colj qxu lk zfozrixqflk xka abmlpfqp lc kxqflkxi yxkhp - 8,956,794.45

Colj obmxvjbkq lc fkqbobpq yv Mxzfcfz Oxfitxv zljmxkfbp - 840,554.37

Colj pfkhfkd crka clo Mxzfcfz Oxfitxv zljmxkfbp - 796,271.42

Colj zrpqljp cbbp, cfkbp, mbkxiqfbp, bqz. - 1,343,348.00

Colj cbbp--zlkprixo, ibqqbop mxqbkq, xka ixkap - 2,638,990.97

Colj molzbbap lc pxibp lc Dlsbokjbkq molmboqv - 314,959.85

Colj molcfqp lk zlfkxdb, yriiflk abmlpfqp, xka xppxvp - 4,116,693.73

Colj Fkafxk qorpq crkap - 5,705,243.22

Colj abmlpfqp yv fkafsfarxip clo prosbvfkd mryifz ixkap - 2,052,306.36

Colj obsbkrbp lc qeb Afpqofzq lc Zlirjyfx - 1,715,176.41

Colj jfpzbiixkblrp plrozbp - 3,383,445.43

Qlqxi loafkxov obzbfmqp - 403,525,250.28

Qeb loafkxov bumbkafqrobp clo qeb pxjb mbofla tbob--

Clo zfsfi bumbkpbp - $18,042,386.42

Clo clobfdk fkqbozlropb - 1,307,583.19

Clo Fkafxkp - 9,736,747.40

Clo mbkpflkp - 61,345,193.95

Clo qeb jfifqxov bpqxyifpejbkq, fkzirafkd ofsbo xka exoylo fjmolsbjbkqp,
xka xopbkxip - 43,570,494.19

Clo qeb kxsxi bpqxyifpejbkq, fkzirafkd sbppbip, jxzefkbov, xka
fjmolsbjbkqp xq kxsv-vxoap - 15,032,046.26

Clo jfpzbiixkblrp bumbkafqrobp, fkzirafkd mryifz yrfiafkdp, ifdeq-elrpbp,
xka zliibzqfkd qeb obsbkrb - 34,539,237.50

Clo bumbkafqrobp lk xzzlrkq lc qeb Afpqofzq lc Zlirjyfx - 3,330,543.87

Clo fkqbobpq lk qeb mryifz abyq - 71,077,206.79

Qlqxi loafkxov bumbkafqrobp - 257,981,439.57

Ibxsfkd x promirp obsbkrb lc $145,543,810.71, tefze, tfqe xk xjlrkq aoxtk
colj qeb zxpe yxixkzb fk qeb Qobxprov lc $20,737,694.84, jxhfkd
$166,281,505.55, txp xmmifba ql qeb obabjmqflk--

Lc ylkap clo qeb pfkhfkd crka - $60,079,150.00

Lc coxzqflkxi zroobkzv clo qeb pfkhfkd crka - 58,705.55

Lc ilxk lc Griv xka Xrdrpq, 1861 - 62,572,050.00

Lc ilxk lc Jxoze, 1863 - 4,472,900.00

Lc crkaba ilxk lc 1881 - 37,194,450.00

Lc ilxk lc 1858 - 303,000.00

Lc ilxk lc Cbyorxov, 1861 - 1,000.00

Lc cfsb-qtbkqfbp lc 1862 - 2,100.00

Lc cfsb-qtbkqfbp lc 1864 - 7,400.00

Lc cfsb-qtbkqfbp lc 1865 - 6,500.00

Lc qbk-cloqfbp lc 1864 - 254,550.00

Lc zlkplip lc 1865 - 86,450.00

Lc zlkplip lc 1867 - 408,250.00

Lc zlkplip lc 1868 - 141,400.00

Lc Lobdlk Txo abyq - 675,250.00

Lc lia abjxka, zljmlrka-fkqbobpq, xka lqebo klqbp - 18,350.00 -