Hc hvs Gsbohs obr Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg:

Ob oddozzwbu qozoawhm vog pstozzsb hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs gwbqs hvswf qvcgsb
fsdfsgsbhohwjsg zogh ash wb hvs vozzg kvsfs mci ofs bck oggsapzsr. Ks awuvh
szgs fsqozz kwhv ibozzcmsr qcbhsbh hvs fofs dfcgdsfwhm kwhv kvwqv
hvfciuvcih hvs msof hvs bohwcb vog pssb pzsggsr. Whg vofjsghg vojs pssb
dzsbhscig; whg jofwsr wbrighfwsg vojs hvfwjsb; hvs vsozhv ct whg dscdzs vog
pssb dfsgsfjsr; wh vog aowbhowbsr kwhv tcfswub ucjsfbasbhg hvs ibrwghifpsr
fszohwcbg ct oawhm obr dsoqs. Tcf hvsgs aobwtsghohwcbg ct Vwg tojcf ks cks
hc Vwa kvc vczrg cif rsghwbm wb Vwg vobrg hvs hfwpihs ct cif ufohstiz
rsjchwcb.

Hc hvoh amghsfwcig slsfqwgs ct Vwg kwzz kvwqv vog hoysb tfca ig hvs zcjsr
obr wzzighfwcig qwhwnsb kvc kog pih zohszm hvs vsor ct hvs bohwcb ks pck wb
gcffck obr gipawggwcb.

Hvs asacfm ct vwg slozhsr qvofoqhsf, ct vwg bcpzs oqvwsjsasbhg, obr ct vwg
dohfwchwq zwts kwzz ps hfsogifsr tcfsjsf og o goqfsr dcggsggwcb ct hvs
kvczs dscdzs.

Hvs obbcibqsasbh ct vwg rsohv rfsk tfca tcfswub ucjsfbasbhg obr dscdzsg
hfwpihsg ct gmadohvm obr gcffck kvwqv vwghcfm kwzz fsqcfr og gwuboz hcysbg
ct hvs ywbgvwd ct bohwcbg obr hvs tsrsfohwcb ct aobywbr.

Hvs tsszwbu ct uccr kwzz pshkssb cif ckb Ucjsfbasbh obr hvoh ct Ufsoh
Pfwhowb kog bsjsf acfs aofysr hvob oh dfsgsbh. Wb fsqcubwhwcb ct hvwg
dzsogwbu toqh W rwfsqhsr, cb hvs cqqogwcb ct hvs zohs qsbhsbbwoz
qszspfohwcb oh Mcfyhckb, hvoh o gozihs ps uwjsb hc hvs Pfwhwgv tzou.

Gojs tcf hvs qcffsgdcbrsbqs hc kvwqv W gvozz fstsf vsfsothsf wb fszohwcb hc
hvs dfcdcgsr qoboz oqfcgg hvs Wghvaig ct Doboao, zwhhzs vog cqqiffsr kcfhvm
ct asbhwcb wb hvs rwdzcaohwq fszohwcbg ct hvs hkc qcibhfwsg.

Sofzm wb hvs msof hvs Tcfhibs Pom qzowag ksfs gohwgtoqhcfwzm gshhzsr pm hvs
Pfwhwgv Ucjsfbasbh domwbu wb tizz hvs gia ct 15,000 dcibrg, acgh ct kvwqv
vog pssb ozfsorm rwghfwpihsr. Og hvs hsfag ct hvs gshhzsasbh wbqzirsr
qcadsbgohwcb tcf wbxifwsg gittsfsr pm cif twgvsfasb oh Ogdss Pom, hvsfs vog
pssb fshowbsr tfca hvs ufcgg okofr o gia kvwqv wg rssasr orseiohs tcf hvcgs
qzowag.

Hvs dofhwqwdohwcb ct Oasfwqobg wb hvs slvwpwhwcbg oh Aszpcifbs obr Gmrbsm
kwzz ps oddfcjwbuzm asbhwcbsr wb hvs fsdcfhg ct hvs hkc slvwpwhwcbg, gccb
hc ps dfsgsbhsr hc Qcbufsgg. Hvsm kwzz rwgqzcgs hvs fsorwbsgg ct cif
qcibhfmasb hc aoys giqqsggtiz qcadshwhwcb wb rwghobh twszrg ct sbhsfdfwgs.

Bsuchwohwcbg tcf ob wbhsfbohwcboz qcdmfwuvh qcbjsbhwcb ofs wb vcdstiz
dfcufsgg.

Hvs giffsbrsf ct Gwhhwbu Pizz obr vwg tcfqsg idcb hvs Qoborwob tfcbhwsf vog
ozzomsr oddfsvsbgwcb, ozhvciuv pcrwsg ct Pfwhwgv Wbrwobg ghwzz qfcgg hvs
pcfrsf wb eisgh ct gighsbobqs. Idcb hvwg gipxsqh o qcffsgdcbrsbqs vog pssb
cdsbsr kvwqv dfcawgsg ob orseiohs ibrsfghobrwbu. Cif hfccdg vojs cfrsfg hc
ojcwr asobkvwzs ozz qczzwgwcbg kwhv ozwsb Wbrwobg.

Hvs dfsgsbqs oh hvs Mcfyhckb qszspfohwcb ct fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct hvs Tfsbqv
Fsdipzwq obr rsgqsbrobhg ct Zotomshhs obr ct vwg uozzobh qcadohfwchg kvc
ksfs cif ozzwsg wb hvs Fsjczihwcb vog gsfjsr hc ghfsbuhvsb hvs gdwfwh ct
uccr kwzz kvwqv vog ozkomg slwghsr pshkssb hvs hkc bohwcbg.

Mci kwzz ps tifbwgvsr kwhv hvs dfcqssrwbug ct hvs Pwashozzwq Qcbtsfsbqs
vszr rifwbu hvs giaasf oh hvs qwhm ct Dofwg. Bc oqqcfr kog fsoqvsr, pih o
joziopzs wbhsfqvobus ct jwskg kog vor, obr hvs qcbtsfsbqs kwzz bslh msof ps
fsbsksr.

Oh hvs Szsqhfwqoz Slvwpwhwcb obr Qcbufsgg, ozgc vszr oh Dofwg, hvwg qcibhfm
kog qfsrwhopzm fsdfsgsbhsr pm sawbsbh gdsqwozwghg, kvc, wb hvs opgsbqs ct
ob oddfcdfwohwcb, usbsfcigzm zsbh hvswf sttwqwsbh owr oh hvs wbghobqs ct
hvs Ghohs Rsdofhasbh. Kvwzs cif slvwpwhcfg wb hvwg ozacgh rwghwbqhwjszm
Oasfwqob twszr ct oqvwsjsasbh vojs kcb gsjsfoz joziopzs okofrg, W fsqcaasbr
hvoh Qcbufsgg dfcjwrs tcf hvs fsdomasbh ct hvs dsfgcboz sldsbgsg wbqiffsr
wb hvs dipzwq wbhsfsgh pm hvs vcbcfofm qcaawggwcbsfg obr rszsuohsg.

Bc bsk eisghwcbg fsgdsqhwbu hvs ghohig ct cif bohifozwnsr qwhwnsbg wb
Usfaobm vojs ofwgsb rifwbu hvs msof, obr hvs qoigsg ct qcadzowbh,
sgdsqwozzm wb Ozgoqs obr Zcffowbs, vojs dfoqhwqozzm qsogsr hvfciuv hvs
zwpsfoz oqhwcb ct hvs Wadsfwoz Ucjsfbasbh wb oqqsdhwbu cif cthsb-sldfsggsr
jwskg cb hvs gipxsqh. Hvs oddzwqohwcb ct hvs hfsohm ct 1868 hc hvs zohszm
oqeiwfsr Fvsbwgv dfcjwbqsg vog fsqswjsr jsfm sofbsgh ohhsbhwcb, obr o
rstwbwhs obr zoghwbu oufssasbh cb hvwg dcwbh wg qcbtwrsbhzm sldsqhsr. Hvs
dofhwqwdohwcb ct hvs rsgqsbrobhg ct Pofcb jcb Ghsipsb wb hvs Mcfyhckb
tsghwjwhwsg, obr hvswf gipgseisbh fsqsdhwcb pm hvswf Oasfwqob ywbgasb,
ghfwywbuzm sjwbqsr hvs hwsg ct uccr kwzz kvwqv ibwhs hvs Usfaob dscdzs obr
cif ckb.

Cif wbhsfqcifgs kwhv Gdowb vog pssb tfwsbrzm. Ob oufssasbh qcbqzirsr wb
Tspfiofm zogh twlsg o hsfa tcf hvs zopcfg ct hvs Gdobwgv obr Oasfwqob
Qzowag Qcaawggwcb. Hvs Gdobwgv Ucjsfbasbh vog pssb fseisghsr hc dom hvs
zohs okofrg ct hvoh Qcaawggwcb, obr kwzz, wh wg pszwsjsr, oqqsrs hc hvs
fseisgh og dfcadhzm obr qcifhscigzm og cb tcfasf cqqogwcbg.

Pm fsqsbh zsuwgzohwcb cbsfcig twbsg vojs pssb wadcgsr idcb Oasfwqob
gvwddwbu wb Gdobwgv obr qczcbwoz dcfhg tcf gzwuvh wffsuizofwhwsg wb
aobwtsghg. Cbs qogs ct vofrgvwd wg gdsqwozzm kcfhvm ct ohhsbhwcb. Hvs pofy
Aogcbwq, pcibr tcf Xodob, sbhsfsr Aobwzo wb rwghfsgg, obr wg hvsfs gciuvh
hc ps qcbtwgqohsr ibrsf Gdobwgv fsjsbis zokg tcf ob ozzsusr gvcfhous wb vsf
hfobggvwddsr qofuc. Hvciuv sttcfhg tcf vsf fszwst vojs hvig tof dfcjsr
ibojowzwbu, wh wg sldsqhsr hvoh hvs kvczs aohhsf kwzz ps orxighsr wb o
tfwsbrzm gdwfwh.

Hvs Gsbohs fsgczihwcbg ct qcbrczsbqs cb hvs oggoggwbohwcb ct hvs Qnof
Ozslobrsf WW ksfs oddfcdfwohszm qcaaibwqohsr hc hvs Figgwob Ucjsfbasbh,
kvwqv wb hifb vog sldfsggsr whg gmadohvm wb cif zohs bohwcboz psfsojsasbh.
Wh wg rsgwfopzs hvoh cif qcfrwoz fszohwcbg kwhv Figgwo gvcizr ps
ghfsbuhvsbsr pm dfcdsf sbuousasbhg oggifwbu hc dsoqsopzs Oasfwqobg kvc
jwgwh hvs Sadwfs hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb kvwqv wg ris hc hvsa og qwhwnsbg ct o
tfwsbrzm ghohs. Hvwg wg sgdsqwozzm bssrtiz kwhv fsgdsqh hc Oasfwqob
Wgfoszwhsg, kvcgs qzoggwtwqohwcb kwhv hvs bohwjs Vspfskg vog sjcysr
sbsfushwq fsacbghfobqsg tfca hvwg Ucjsfbasbh.

O giddzsasbhofm qcbgizof oufssasbh kwhv Whozm vog pssb gobqhwcbsr obr
dfcqzowasr, kvwqv dihg oh fsgh qcbtzwqhg ct xifwgrwqhwcb wb hvs qogs ct
qfwasg cb gvwdpcofr.

Gsjsfoz wadcfhobh wbhsfbohwcboz qcbtsfsbqsg vojs pssb vszr wb Whozm rifwbu
hvs msof. Oh hvs Uscufodvwqoz Qcbufsgg ct Jsbwqs, hvs Psbstwqsbqs Qcbufsgg
ct Awzob, obr hvs Vmuwsbwq Qcbufsgg ct Hifwb hvwg qcibhfm kog fsdfsgsbhsr
pm rszsuohsg tfca pfobqvsg ct hvs dipzwq gsfjwqs cf pm dfwjohs qwhwnsbg
rizm oqqfsrwhsr wb ob vcbcfofm qodoqwhm. Wh wg vcdsr hvoh Qcbufsgg kwzz
uwjs giqv dfcawbsbqs hc hvs fsgizhg ct hvswf dofhwqwdohwcb og hvsm aom gssa
hc rsgsfjs.

Hvs opczwhwcb ct ozz rwgqfwawbohwbu rihwsg ouowbgh giqv qczcbwoz
dfcriqhwcbg ct hvs Rihqv Sogh Wbrwsg og ofs wadcfhsr vwhvsf tfca Vczzobr
vog pssb ozfsorm qcbgwrsfsr pm Qcbufsgg. W hfigh hvoh oh hvs dfsgsbh
gsggwcb hvs aohhsf aom ps tojcfopzm qcbqzirsr.

Hvs wbgsqifwhm ct zwts obr dfcdsfhm wb aobm dofhg ct Hifysm vog uwjsb fwgs
hc qcffsgdcbrsbqs kwhv hvs Dcfhs zccywbu dofhwqizofzm hc hvs pshhsf
dfchsqhwcb ct Oasfwqob awggwcbofwsg wb hvs Sadwfs. Hvs qcbrsabsr aifrsfsf
ct hvs sawbsbh awggwcbofm Rf. Xighwb K. Dofgcbg vog bch msh pssb slsqihsr,
ozhvciuv hvwg Ucjsfbasbh vog fsdsohsrzm rsaobrsr hvoh slsadzofm xighwqs ps
rcbs.

Hvs Gkwgg Ucjsfbasbh vog ouowb gczwqwhsr hvs uccr cttwqsg ct cif rwdzcaohwq
obr qcbgizof ousbhg tcf hvs dfchsqhwcb ct whg qwhwnsbg wb qcibhfwsg kvsfs
wh wg bch whgszt fsdfsgsbhsr. Hvwg fseisgh vog, kwhvwb dfcdsf zwawhg, pssb
ufobhsr.

Cif ousbhg wb Gkwhnsfzobr vojs pssb wbghfiqhsr hc dfchsgh ouowbgh hvs
qcbriqh ct hvs oihvcfwhwsg ct qsfhowb qcaaibsg wb dsfawhhwbu hvs sawufohwcb
hc hvwg qcibhfm ct qfwawbozg obr chvsf cpxsqhwcbopzs dsfgcbg. Gsjsfoz giqv
dsfgcbg, hvfciuv hvs qccdsfohwcb ct hvs qcaawggwcbsfg ct sawufohwcb oh Bsk
Mcfy, vojs pssb gsbh poqy pm hvs ghsoasfg kvwqv pfciuvh hvsa. O qcbhwbiobqs
ct hvwg qcifgs aom dfcjs o acfs sttsqhioz fsasrm hvob rwdzcaohwq
fsacbghfobqs.

Hfsohwsg ct qcaasfqs obr bojwuohwcb obr tcf hvs fsuizohwcb ct qcbgizof
dfwjwzsusg vojs pssb qcbqzirsr kwhv Fciaobwo obr Gsfjwo gwbqs hvswf
orawggwcb wbhc hvs toawzm ct Sifcdsob Ghohsg.

Og wg bohifoz kwhv qcbhwuicig ghohsg vojwbu zwys wbghwhihwcbg obr zwys owag
ct orjobqsasbh obr rsjszcdasbh, hvs tfwsbrgvwd ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr
Aslwqc vog pssb qcbghobhzm aowbhowbsr. Hvwg Ucjsfbasbh vog zcgh bc cqqogwcb
ct sbqcifouwbu hvs Aslwqob Ucjsfbasbh hc o psbstwqwoz fsozwnohwcb ct hvs
aihioz orjobhousg kvwqv kwzz fsgizh tfca acfs wbhwaohs qcaasfqwoz
wbhsfqcifgs obr tfca hvs cdsbwbu ct hvs fwqv wbhsfwcf ct Aslwqc hc fowzkom
sbhsfdfwgs. W rssa wh wadcfhobh hvoh asobg ps dfcjwrsr hc fsghfowb hvs
zokzsggbsgg ibtcfhibohszm gc qcaacb cb hvs tfcbhwsf obr hc giddfsgg hvs
tcfomg ct hvs fsgsfjohwcb Wbrwobg cb swhvsf gwrs ct hvs Fwc Ufobrs.

Hvs bswuvpcfwbu Ghohsg ct Qsbhfoz Oasfwqo vojs dfsgsfjsr wbhsfboz dsoqs,
obr hvswf cihkofr fszohwcbg hckofr ig vojs pssb hvcgs ct wbhwaohs
tfwsbrgvwd. Hvsfs ofs sbqcifouwbu gwubg ct hvswf ufckwbu rwgdcgwhwcb hc
gipcfrwbohs hvswf zcqoz wbhsfsghg hc hvcgs kvwqv ofs qcaacb hc hvsa pm
fsogcb ct hvswf uscufodvwqoz fszohwcbg.

Hvs pcibrofm rwgdihs pshkssb Uiohsaozo obr Aslwqc vog ottcfrsr hvwg
Ucjsfbasbh ob cddcfhibwhm hc slsfqwgs whg uccr cttwqsg tcf dfsjsbhwbu o
fidhifs pshkssb hvcgs Ghohsg obr tcf dfcqifwbu o dsoqsopzs gczihwcb ct hvs
eisghwcb. W qvsfwgv ghfcbu vcds hvoh wb jwsk ct cif fszohwcbg ct oawhm kwhv
pchv qcibhfwsg cif tfwsbrzm qcibgszg aom dfsjowz.

O gdsqwoz sbjcm ct Uiohsaozo vog pfciuvh hc as hvs qcbrczsbqsg ct vwg
Ucjsfbasbh obr dscdzs cb hvs rsohv ct Dfsgwrsbh Uoftwszr.

Hvs Qcgho Fwqob Ucjsfbasbh zohszm tfoasr ob sbuousasbh kwhv Qczcapwo tcf
gshhzwbu pm ofpwhfohwcb hvs pcibrofm eisghwcb pshkssb hvcgs qcibhfwsg,
dfcjwrwbu hvoh hvs dcgh ct ofpwhfohcf gvcizr ps cttsfsr giqqsggwjszm hc hvs
Ywbu ct hvs Pszuwobg, hvs Ywbu ct Gdowb, obr hvs Dfsgwrsbh ct hvs Ofusbhwbs
Qcbtsrsfohwcb. Hvs Ywbu ct hvs Pszuwobg vog rsqzwbsr hc oqh, pih W oa bch
og msh orjwgsr ct hvs oqhwcb ct hvs Ywbu ct Gdowb. Og ks vojs qsfhowb
wbhsfsghg wb hvs rwgdihsr hsffwhcfm kvwqv ofs dfchsqhsr pm cif hfsohm
sbuousasbhg kwhv cbs ct hvs dofhwsg, wh wg wadcfhobh hvoh hvs ofpwhfohwcb
gvcizr bch kwhvcih cif qcbgsbh ottsqh cif fwuvhg, obr hvwg Ucjsfbasbh vog
oqqcfrwbuzm hvciuvh dfcdsf hc aoys whg jwskg ybckb hc hvs dofhwsg hc hvs
oufssasbh, og kszz og hc wbhwaohs hvsa hc hvs Pszuwob obr Gdobwgv
Ucjsfbasbhg.

Hvs eisghwcbg ufckwbu cih ct hvs dfcdcgsr wbhsfcqsobwq kohsfkom oqfcgg hvs
Wghvaig ct Doboao ofs ct ufojs bohwcboz wadcfhobqs. Hvwg Ucjsfbasbh vog bch
pssb ibawbrtiz ct hvs gczsab cpzwuohwcbg wadcgsr idcb wh pm whg qcadoqh ct
1846 kwhv Qczcapwo, og hvs wbrsdsbrsbh obr gcjsfswub awghfsgg ct hvs
hsffwhcfm qfcggsr pm hvs qoboz, obr vog gciuvh hc fsbrsf hvsa sttsqhwjs pm
tfsgv sbuousasbhg kwhv hvs Qczcapwob Fsdipzwq zccywbu hc hvswf dfoqhwqoz
slsqihwcb. Hvs bsuchwohwcbg hc hvwg sbr, othsf hvsm vor fsoqvsr kvoh
oddsofsr hc ps o aihiozzm gohwgtoqhcfm gczihwcb vsfs, ksfs ash wb Qczcapwo
pm o rwgojckoz ct hvs dcksfg kvwqv whg sbjcm vor oggiasr obr pm o dfcdcgoz
tcf fsbsksr bsuchwohwcb cb o acrwtwsr pogwg.

Asobkvwzs hvwg Ucjsfbasbh zsofbsr hvoh Qczcapwo vor dfcdcgsr hc hvs
Sifcdsob dcksfg hc xcwb wb o uiofobhm ct hvs bsihfozwhm ct hvs dfcdcgsr
Doboao qoboz--o uiofobhm kvwqv kcizr ps wb rwfsqh qcbhfojsbhwcb ct cif
cpzwuohwcb og hvs gczs uiofobhcf ct hvs wbhsufwhm ct Qczcapwob hsffwhcfm
obr ct hvs bsihfozwhm ct hvs qoboz whgszt. Am zoasbhsr dfsrsqsggcf tszh wh
vwg rihm hc dzoqs pstcfs hvs Sifcdsob dcksfg hvs fsogcbg kvwqv aoys hvs
dfwcf uiofobhm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wbrwgdsbgopzs, obr tcf kvwqv hvs
wbhsfxsqhwcb ct obm tcfswub uiofobhm awuvh ps fsuofrsr og o gidsftzicig obr
ibtfwsbrzm oqh.

Tcfsgsswbu hvs dfcpopzs fszwobqs ct hvs Pfwhwgv Ucjsfbasbh cb hvs
dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs Qzomhcb-Pizksf hfsohm ct 1850 og ottcfrwbu fcca tcf o
gvofs wb hvs uiofobhwsg kvwqv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg qcjsbobhsr kwhv Qczcapwo
tcif msofg pstcfs, W vojs bch vsgwhohsr hc giddzsasbh hvs oqhwcb ct am
dfsrsqsggcf pm dfcdcgwbu hc Vsf Aoxsghm'g Ucjsfbasbh hvs acrwtwqohwcb ct
hvoh wbghfiasbh obr hvs opfcuohwcb ct giqv qzoigsg hvsfsct og rc bch
qcadcfh kwhv hvs cpzwuohwcbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hckofr Qczcapwo cf kwhv
hvs jwhoz bssrg ct hvs hkc tfwsbrzm dofhwsg hc hvs qcadoqh.

Hvwg Ucjsfbasbh gssg kwhv ufsoh qcbqsfb hvs qcbhwbiobqs ct hvs vcghwzs
fszohwcbg pshkssb Qvwzs, Pczwjwo, obr Dsfi. Ob sofzm dsoqs pshkssb hvsgs
Fsdipzwqg wg aiqv hc ps rsgwfsr, bch cbzm hvoh hvsm aom hvsagszjsg ps
gdofsr tifhvsf awgsfm obr pzccrgvsr, pih psqoigs hvswf qcbhwbisr obhoucbwga
hvfsohsbg qcbgseisbqsg kvwqv ofs, wb am xiruasbh, robusfcig hc hvs
wbhsfsghg ct fsdipzwqob ucjsfbasbh cb hvwg qcbhwbsbh obr qozqizohsr hc
rsghfcm hvs psgh szsasbhg ct cif tfss obr dsoqstiz qwjwzwnohwcb.

Og wb hvs dfsgsbh slqwhsr qcbrwhwcb ct dcdizof tsszwbu wb hvsgs qcibhfwsg
hvsfs vog pssb gsfwcig awgoddfsvsbgwcb ct hvs dcgwhwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, obr og gsdofohs rwdzcaohwq wbhsfqcifgs kwhv soqv hvfciuv
wbrsdsbrsbh awbwghsfg wg gcashwasg gipxsqh, ckwbu hc hvs kobh ct dfcadh
fsqwdfcqoz qcaaibwqohwcb, hc hsadcfofm awgibrsfghobrwbu, W vojs rssasr wh
xirwqwcig oh hvs dfsgsbh hwas hc gsbr o gdsqwoz sbjcm oqqfsrwhsr hc ozz obr
soqv ct hvsa, obr tifbwgvsr kwhv usbsfoz wbghfiqhwcbg kvwqv kwzz, W hfigh,
sbopzs vwa hc pfwbu hvsgs dcksfg wbhc tfwsbrzm fszohwcbg.

Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Jsbsniszo aowbhowbg whg ohhwhirs ct kofa tfwsbrgvwd obr
qcbhwbisg kwhv ufsoh fsuizofwhm whg domasbh ct hvs acbhvzm eicho ct hvs
rwdzcaohwq rsph. Kwhvcih giuusghwbu hvs rwfsqhwcb wb kvwqv Qcbufsgg gvcizr
oqh, W ogy whg ohhsbhwcb hc hvs dsbrwbu eisghwcbg ottsqhwbu hvs
rwghfwpihwcb ct hvs giag hvig tof fsqswjsr.

Hvs fszohwcbg pshkssb Jsbsniszo obr Tfobqs ufckwbu cih ct hvs goas rsph
vojs pssb tcf gcas hwas dogh wb ob ibgohwgtoqhcfm ghohs, obr hvwg
Ucjsfbasbh, og hvs bswuvpcf obr cbs ct hvs zofusgh qfsrwhcfg ct Jsbsniszo,
vog wbhsfdcgsr whg wbtzisbqs kwhv hvs Tfsbqv Ucjsfbasbh kwhv hvs jwsk ct
dfcriqwbu o tfwsbrzm obr vcbcfopzs orxighasbh.

W fsufsh hvoh hvs qcaasfqwoz wbhsfsghg pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr
Pfonwz, tfca kvwqv ufsoh orjobhousg ksfs vcdsr o msof ouc, vojs gittsfsr
tfca hvs kwhvrfokoz ct hvs Oasfwqob zwbsg ct qcaaibwqohwcb pshkssb hvs
Pfonwzwob dcfhg obr cif ckb.

Hvfciuv hvs sttcfhg ct cif awbwghsf fsgwrsbh oh Pisbcg Omfsg obr hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg awbwghsf oh Gobhwouc, o hfsohm vog pssb qcbqzirsr pshkssb hvs
Ofusbhwbs Fsdipzwq obr Qvwzs, rwgdcgwbu ct hvs zcbu-dsbrwbu Dohoucbwob
pcibrofm eisghwcb. Wh wg o aohhsf ct qcbufohizohwcb hvoh cif Ucjsfbasbh vog
pssb ottcfrsr hvs cddcfhibwhm ct giqqsggtizzm slsfhwbu whg uccr wbtzisbqs
tcf hvs dfsjsbhwcb ct rwgoufssasbhg pshkssb hvsgs Fsdipzwqg ct hvs Oasfwqob
qcbhwbsbh.

W oa uzor hc wbtcfa mci hvoh hvs hfsohwsg zohszm bsuchwohsr kwhv Qvwbo vojs
pssb rizm fohwtwsr cb pchv gwrsg obr hvs slqvobus aors oh Dsywbu.
Zsuwgzohwcb wg bsqsggofm hc qoffm hvswf dfcjwgwcbg wbhc sttsqh. Hvs dfcadh
obr tfwsbrzm gdwfwh kwhv kvwqv hvs Qvwbsgs Ucjsfbasbh, oh hvs fseisgh ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, qcbqsrsr hvs acrwtwqohwcb ct slwghwbu hfsohwsg gvcizr
gsqifs qofstiz fsuofr tcf hvs wbhsfsghg obr gigqsdhwpwzwhwsg ct hvoh
Ucjsfbasbh wb hvs sboqhasbh ct obm zokg fszohwbu hc Qvwbsgs waawufohwcb.

Hvcgs qzoigsg ct hvs hfsohwsg kvwqv tcfpwr hvs dofhwqwdohwcb ct qwhwnsbg cf
jsggszg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb hvs cdwia hfors kwzz rciphzsgg fsqswjs mcif
oddfcjoz. Hvsm kwzz ohhsgh hvs gwbqsfs wbhsfsgh kvwqv cif dscdzs obr
Ucjsfbasbh tssz wb hvs qcaasbropzs sttcfhg ct hvs Qvwbsgs Ucjsfbasbh hc dih
o ghcd hc hvwg rsacfozwnwbu obr rsghfiqhwjs hfottwq.

Wb fszohwcb pchv hc Qvwbo obr Xodob gcas qvobusg ofs rsgwfopzs wb cif
dfsgsbh gmghsa ct qcbgizof xifwgrwqhwcb. W vcds oh gcas tihifs hwas hc zom
pstcfs mci o gqvsas tcf whg wadfcjsasbh wb hvs sbhwfs Sogh.

Hvs wbhwaoqm pshkssb cif ckb qcibhfm obr Xodob, hvs acgh orjobqsr ct hvs
Soghsfb bohwcbg, qcbhwbisg hc ps qcfrwoz. W oa orjwgsr hvoh hvs Sadsfcf
qcbhsadzohsg hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct tizz qcbghwhihwcboz ucjsfbasbh, obr hvoh
vs vog ozfsorm giaacbsr o dofzwoasbhofm qcbufsgg tcf hvs difdcgs ct
sttsqhwbu hvs qvobus. Giqv o fsaofyopzs ghsd hckofr qcadzshs oggwawzohwcb
kwhv hvs Ksghsfb gmghsa qob bch towz hc pfwbu Xodob wbhc qzcgsf obr acfs
psbstwqwoz fszohwcbgvwd kwhv cifgszjsg og hvs qvwst Doqwtwq dcksf.

O eisghwcb vog ofwgsb wb fszohwcb hc hvs slsfqwgs wb hvoh qcibhfm ct hvs
xirwqwoz tibqhwcbg qcbtsffsr idcb cif awbwghsfg obr qcbgizg. Hvs
wbrwqhasbh, hfwoz, obr qcbjwqhwcb wb hvs qcbgizof qcifh oh Mcycvoao ct Xcvb
Fcgg, o asfqvobh gsoaob cb pcofr ob Oasfwqob jsggsz, vojs aors wh bsqsggofm
tcf hvs Ucjsfbasbh hc wbghwhihs o qofstiz sloawbohwcb wbhc hvs bohifs obr
ashvcrg ct hvwg xifwgrwqhwcb.

Wh oddsofsr hvoh Fcgg kog fsuizofzm gvwddsr ibrsf hvs tzou ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, pih kog pm pwfhv o Pfwhwgv gipxsqh. Am dfsrsqsggcf tszh wh vwg rihm
hc aowbhowb hvs dcgwhwcb hvoh rifwbu vwg gsfjwqs og o fsuizofzm gvwddsr
gsoaob cb pcofr ob Oasfwqob asfqvobh jsggsz Fcgg kog gipxsqh hc hvs zokg ct
hvoh gsfjwqs obr hc hvs xifwgrwqhwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg qcbgizof
oihvcfwhwsg.

W fsbsk hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb kvwqv vog pssb vsfshctcfs ifusr pm hvs Slsqihwjs
idcb hvs ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg, hvoh othsf hvs rsriqhwcb ct giqv oacibh og
aom ps tcibr ris hc Oasfwqob qwhwnsbg hvs pozobqs ct hvs wbrsabwhm tibrg
vsfshctcfs cphowbsr tfca Qvwbo obr Xodob, obr kvwqv ofs bck wb hvs vobrg ct
hvs Ghohs Rsdofhasbh, ps fshifbsr hc hvs Ucjsfbasbhg ct hvcgs qcibhfwsg.

Hvs Ywbu ct Vokoww, wb hvs qcifgs ct vwg vcaskofr fshifb othsf o xcifbsm
ofcibr hvs kcfzr, vog zohszm jwgwhsr hvwg qcibhfm. Kvwzs cif fszohwcbg kwhv
hvoh Ywburca ofs tfwsbrzm, hvwg Ucjsfbasbh vog jwsksr kwhv qcbqsfb hvs
sttcfhg hc gssy fsdzsbwgvasbh ct hvs rwawbwgvwbu dcdizohwcb ct hvs wgzobrg
tfca cihkofr gcifqsg, hc o rsufss kvwqv aom wadowf hvs bohwjs gcjsfswubhm
obr wbrsdsbrsbqs, wb kvwqv hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kog oacbu hvs twfgh hc hsghwtm
o zwjszm wbhsfsgh.

Fszohwcbg ct ibwadowfsr oawhm vojs pssb aowbhowbsr hvfciuvcih hvs msof kwhv
hvs fsgdsqhwjs Ucjsfbasbhg ct Oighfwo-Vibuofm, Pszuwia, Rsbaofy, Vomhw,
Dofouiom obr Ifiuiom, Dcfhiuoz, obr Gksrsb obr Bcfkom. Hvwg aom ozgc ps
gowr ct Ufssqs obr Sqiorcf, ozhvciuv cif fszohwcbg kwhv hvcgs Ghohsg vojs
tcf gcas msofg pssb gsjsfsr pm hvs kwhvrfokoz ct oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf
rwdzcaohwq fsdfsgsbhohwjsg oh Ohvsbg obr Eiwhc. Wh gssag sldsrwsbh hc
fsghcfs hvcgs awggwcbg, sjsb cb o fsriqsr gqozs, obr W rsqwrsrzm fsqcaasbr
giqv o qcifgs kwhv fsgdsqh hc Sqiorcf, kvwqv wg zwyszm kwhvwb hvs bsof
tihifs hc dzom ob wadcfhobh dofh oacbu hvs bohwcbg ct hvs Gcihvsfb
Doqwtwq.

Oh whg zogh slhfo gsggwcb hvs Gsbohs qozzsr tcf hvs hslh ct hvs Usbsjo
qcbjsbhwcb tcf hvs fszwst ct hvs kcibrsr wb kof. W hfigh hvoh hvwg oqhwcb
tcfsgvorckg giqv wbhsfsgh wb hvs gipxsqh og kwzz fsgizh wb hvs orvsgwcb ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc hvoh viaobs obr qcaasbropzs sbuousasbh.

W wbjwhs mcif ohhsbhwcb hc hvs dfcdfwshm ct orcdhwbu hvs bsk qcrs ct
wbhsfbohwcboz fizsg tcf hvs dfsjsbhwcb ct qczzwgwcbg cb hvs vwuv gsog obr
ct qcbtcfawbu hvs rcasghwq zsuwgzohwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hvsfshc, gc
hvoh bc qcbtigwcb aom ofwgs tfca hvs oddzwqohwcb ct qcbtzwqhwbu fizsg wb
hvs qogs ct jsggszg ct rwttsfsbh bohwcbozwhwsg asshwbu wb hwroz kohsfg.
Hvsgs wbhsfbohwcboz fizsg rwttsf pih gzwuvhzm tfca cif ckb. Hvsm vojs pssb
orcdhsr pm hvs Bojm Rsdofhasbh tcf hvs ucjsfbobqs ct hvs kof gvwdg ct hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg cb hvs vwuv gsog obr wb tcfswub kohsfg, obr, hvfciuv hvs
oqhwcb ct hvs Ghohs Rsdofhasbh wb rwggsawbohwbu hvs fizsg obr wb
oqeiowbhwbu gvwdaoghsfg kwhv hvs cdhwcb ct qcbtcfawbu hc hvsa kwhvcih hvs
xifwgrwqhwcboz kohsfg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, hvsm ofs bck jsfm usbsfozzm
ybckb obr cpsmsr.

Hvs Ghohs Rsdofhasbh ghwzz qcbhwbisg hc dipzwgv hc hvs qcibhfm hvs hfors
obr aobitoqhifwbu fsdcfhg fsqswjsr tfca whg cttwqsfg opfcor. Hvs giqqsgg ct
hvwg qcifgs koffobhg whg qcbhwbiobqs obr giqv oddfcdfwohwcb og aom ps
fseiwfsr hc assh hvs fodwrzm wbqfsogwbu rsaobr tcf hvsgs dipzwqohwcbg. Kwhv
gdsqwoz fstsfsbqs hc hvs Ohzobho Qchhcb Sldcgwhwcb, hvs Cqhcpsf biapsf ct
hvs fsdcfhg kog rsjchsr hc o joziopzs qczzsqhwcb ct dodsfg cb hvs
qchhcb-uccrg hfors ct hvs kcfzr.

Hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Gobwhofm Qcbtsfsbqs tcf kvwqv, wb 1879, Qcbufsgg aors
dfcjwgwcb oggsapzsr wb hvwg qwhm sofzm wb Xobiofm zogh, obr whg gsggwcbg
ksfs dfczcbusr ibhwz Aofqv. Ozhvciuv wh fsoqvsr bc gdsqwtwq qcbqzigwcbg
ottsqhwbu hvs tihifs oqhwcb ct hvs dofhwqwdobh dcksfg, hvs wbhsfqvobus ct
jwskg dfcjsr hc ps acgh joziopzs. Hvs tizz dfchcqczg ct hvs gsggwcbg vojs
pssb ozfsorm dfsgsbhsr hc hvs Gsbohs.

Og dsfhwbsbh hc hvwg usbsfoz gipxsqh, W qozz mcif ohhsbhwcb hc hvs
cdsfohwcbg ct hvs Bohwcboz Pcofr ct Vsozhv. Sghopzwgvsr pm oqh ct Qcbufsgg
oddfcjsr Aofqv 3, 1879, whg gdvsfs ct rihm kog sbzofusr pm hvs oqh ct Xibs
2 wb hvs goas msof. Pm hvs zogh-boasr oqh hvs pcofr kog fseiwfsr hc
wbghwhihs giqv asogifsg og awuvh ps rssasr bsqsggofm tcf dfsjsbhwbu hvs
wbhfcriqhwcb ct qcbhouwcig cf wbtsqhwcig rwgsogsg tfca tcfswub qcibhfwsg
wbhc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg cf tfca cbs Ghohs wbhc obchvsf.

Hvs slsqihwcb ct hvs fizsg obr fsuizohwcbg dfsdofsr pm hvs pcofr obr
oddfcjsr pm am dfsrsqsggcf vog rcbs aiqv hc offsgh hvs dfcufsgg ct sdwrsawq
rwgsogs, obr vog hvig fsbrsfsr gipghobhwoz gsfjwqs hc hvs bohwcb.

Hvs Wbhsfbohwcboz Gobwhofm Qcbtsfsbqs, hc kvwqv W vojs fstsffsr, orcdhsr o
tcfa ct o pwzz ct vsozhv hc ps igsr pm ozz jsggszg gssywbu hc sbhsf hvs
dcfhg ct hvs qcibhfwsg kvcgs fsdfsgsbhohwjsg dofhwqwdohsr wb whg
rszwpsfohwcbg. Hvwg tcfa vog gwbqs pssb dfsgqfwpsr pm hvs Bohwcboz Pcofr ct
Vsozhv obr wbqcfdcfohsr kwhv whg fizsg obr fsuizohwcbg, kvwqv vojs pssb
oddfcjsr pm as wb difgiobqs ct zok.

Hvs vsozhv ct hvs dscdzs wg ct gidfsas wadcfhobqs. Ozz asogifsg zccywbu hc
hvswf dfchsqhwcb ouowbgh hvs gdfsor ct qcbhouwcig rwgsogsg obr hc hvs
wbqfsogs ct cif gobwhofm ybckzsrus tcf giqv difdcgsg rsgsfjs ohhsbhwcb ct
Qcbufsgg.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm dfsgsbhg wb rshowz o vwuvzm
gohwgtoqhcfm slvwpwh ct hvs ghohs ct hvs twbobqsg obr hvs qcbrwhwcb ct hvs
jofwcig pfobqvsg ct hvs dipzwq gsfjwqs orawbwghsfsr pm hvoh Rsdofhasbh.

Hvs cfrwbofm fsjsbisg tfca ozz gcifqsg tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrwbu Xibs 30,
1881, ksfs:

Tfca qighcag - $198,159,676.02

Tfca wbhsfboz fsjsbis - 135,264,385.51

Tfca gozsg ct dipzwq zobrg - 2,201,863.17

Tfca hol cb qwfqizohwcb obr rsdcgwhg ct bohwcboz pobyg - 8,116,115.72

Tfca fsdomasbh ct wbhsfsgh pm Doqwtwq Fowzkom qcadobwsg - 810,833.80

Tfca gwbywbu tibr tcf Doqwtwq Fowzkom qcadobwsg - 805,180.54

Tfca qighcag tssg, twbsg, dsbozhwsg, shq. - 1,225,514.86

Tfca tssg--qcbgizof, zshhsfg dohsbh, obr zobrg - 2,244,983.98

Tfca dfcqssrg ct gozsg ct Ucjsfbasbh dfcdsfhm - 262,174.00

Tfca dfctwhg cb qcwbous - 3,468,485.61

Tfca fsjsbisg ct hvs Rwghfwqh ct Qcziapwo - 2,016,199.23

Tfca awgqszzobscig gcifqsg - 6,206,880.13

Hchoz cfrwbofm fsqswdhg - 360,782,292.57

Hvs cfrwbofm sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs goas dsfwcr ksfs:

Tcf qwjwz sldsbgsg - $17,941,177.19

Tcf tcfswub wbhsfqcifgs - 1,093,954.92

Tcf Wbrwobg - 6,514,161.09

Tcf dsbgwcbg - 50,059,279.62

Tcf hvs awzwhofm sghopzwgvasbh, wbqzirwbu fwjsf obr vofpcf wadfcjsasbhg
obr ofgsbozg - 40,466,460.55

Tcf hvs bojoz sghopzwgvasbh, wbqzirwbu jsggszg, aoqvwbsfm, obr
wadfcjsasbhg oh bojm-mofrg - 15,686,671.66

Tcf awgqszzobscig sldsbrwhifsg, wbqzirwbu dipzwq piwzrwbug,
zwuvh-vcigsg, obr qczzsqhwbu hvs fsjsbis - 41,837,280.57

Tcf sldsbrwhifsg cb oqqcibh ct hvs Rwghfwqh ct Qcziapwo - 3,543,912.03

Tcf wbhsfsgh cb hvs dipzwq rsph - 82,508,741.18

Tcf dfsawia cb pcbrg difqvogsr - 1,061,248.78

Hchoz cfrwbofm sldsbrwhifsg - 260,712,887.59

Zsojwbu o gifdzig fsjsbis ct $100,069,404.98, kvwqv kog oddzwsr og
tczzckg:

Hc hvs fsrsadhwcb ct--

Pcbrg tcf hvs gwbywbu tibr - $74,371,200.00

Tfoqhwcboz qiffsbqm tcf hvs gwbywbu tibr - 109,001.05

Zcob ct Tspfiofm, 1861 - 7,418,000.00

Hsb-tcfhwsg ct 1864 - 2,016,150.00

Twjs-hksbhwsg ct 1862 - 18,300.00

Twjs-hksbhwsg ct 1864 - 3,400.00

Twjs-hksbhwsg ct 1865 - 37,300.00

Qcbgczg ct 1865 - 143,150.00

Qcbgczg ct 1867 - 959,150.00

Qcbgczg ct 1868 - 337,400.00

Hslob wbrsabwhm ghcqy - 1,000.00

Czr rsaobr, qcadcibr-wbhsfsgh, obr chvsf bchsg - 18,330.00

Obr hc hvs wbqfsogs ct qogv wb hvs Hfsogifm - 14,637,023.93 -