Nmttwe-Kqbqhmva wn bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Epmv em kwuxizm bpm kwvlqbqwv wn bpm kwcvbzg ib bpm xzmamvb lig eqbp epib
qb eia wvm gmiz iow ib bpm ummbqvo wn Kwvozmaa, em pidm uckp zmiawv nwz
ozibqbclm bw bpib Ituqopbg Xzwdqlmvkm epqkp pia vmdmz niqtml bw qvbmzxwam
nwz wcz zmtqmn ib bpm uwab kzqbqkit xmzqwla wn wcz pqabwzg. Wvm gmiz iow
bpm amkbqwvit abzqnm jmbemmv bpm Vwzbp ivl bpm Awcbp wv bpm livomzwca
acjrmkb wn atidmzg pil ioiqv jmkwum aw qvbmvam ia bw bpzmibmv bpm xmikm ivl
xmzxmbcqbg wn bpm Kwvnmlmzikg. Bpm ixxtqkibqwv nwz bpm iluqaaqwv wn Sivaia
ia i Abibm qvbw bpm Cvqwv nwabmzml bpqa cvpixxg ioqbibqwv ivl jzwcopb bpm
epwtm acjrmkb wvkm uwzm jmnwzm Kwvozmaa. Qb eia bpm lmaqzm wn mdmzg xibzqwb
bpib ackp umiaczma wn tmoqatibqwv uqopb jm ilwxbml ia ewctl zmuwdm bpm
mfkqbmumvb nzwu bpm Abibma ivl kwvnqvm qb bw bpm Bmzzqbwzg epmzm qb
tmoqbquibmtg jmtwvoml. Uckp pia jmmv lwvm, Q iu pixxg bw aig, bweizl bpm
ikkwuxtqapumvb wn bpqa wjrmkb lczqvo bpm tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Bpm
Acxzmum Kwczb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pil xzmdqwcatg lmkqlml bpib itt Iumzqkiv
kqbqhmva pidm iv mycit zqopb bw bism qvbw bpm Bmzzqbwzqma epibmdmz qa pmtl
ia xzwxmzbg cvlmz bpm tiea wn ivg wn bpm Abibma, ivl bw pwtl ackp xzwxmzbg
bpmzm cvlmz bpm ocizlqivapqx wn bpm Nmlmzit Kwvabqbcbqwv aw twvo ia bpm
Bmzzqbwzqit kwvlqbqwv apitt zmuiqv.

Bpqa qa vwe i emtt-mabijtqapml xwaqbqwv, ivl bpm xzwkmmlqvoa wn bpm tiab
amaaqwv emzm itwvm eivbqvo bw oqdm qb xzikbqkit mnnmkb. Bpm xzqvkqxtm pia
jmmv zmkwovqhml qv awum nwzu wz wbpmz jg iv ituwab cvivquwca dwbm wn jwbp
Pwcama wn Kwvozmaa bpib i Bmzzqbwzg pia i zqopb bw kwum qvbw bpm Cvqwv
mqbpmz ia i nzmm wz i atidm Abibm, ikkwzlqvo bw bpm eqtt wn i uirwzqbg wn
qba xmwxtm. Bpm rcab mycitqbg wn itt bpm Abibma pia bpca jmmv dqvlqkibml
ivl i nzcqbnct awczkm wn livomzwca lqaamvaqwv iuwvo bpmu pia jmmv zmuwdml.

Epqtab ackp pia jmmv bpm jmvmnqkqit bmvlmvkg wn gwcz tmoqatibqdm
xzwkmmlqvoa wcbaqlm wn Sivaia, bpmqz qvntcmvkm pia vwepmzm jmmv aw pixxg ia
eqbpqv bpib Bmzzqbwzg qbamtn. Tmnb bw uiviom ivl kwvbzwt qba wev inniqza qv
qba wev eig, eqbpwcb bpm xzmaaczm wn mfbmzvit qvntcmvkm, bpm zmdwtcbqwvizg
Bwxmsi wzoivqhibqwv ivl itt zmaqabivkm bw bpm Bmzzqbwzqit owdmzvumvb
mabijtqapml jg Kwvozmaa pidm jmmv nqvittg ijivlwvml. Ia i vibczit
kwvamycmvkm bpib nqvm Bmzzqbwzg vwe ixxmiza bw jm bzivycqt ivl xzwaxmzwca
ivl qa ibbzikbqvo qvkzmiaqvo bpwcaivla wn quuqozivba bw uism qb bpmqz pixxg
pwum.

Bpm xiab cvnwzbcvibm mfxmzqmvkm wn Sivaia pia mvnwzkml bpm tmaawv, aw wnbmv
itzmilg bicopb, bpib zmaqabivkm bw tienct icbpwzqbg cvlmz wcz nwzu wn
owdmzvumvb kiv vwb niqt qv bpm mvl bw xzwdm lqaiabzwca bw qba icbpwza. Pil
bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Bmzzqbwzg gqmtlml wjmlqmvkm bw bpm tiea mvikbml jg bpmqz
tmoqatibczm, qb ewctl ib bpm xzmamvb uwumvb pidm kwvbiqvml i tizom
illqbqwvit xwxctibqwv wn qvlcabzqwca ivl mvbmzxzqaqvo kqbqhmva, epw pidm
jmmv lmbmzzml nzwu mvbmzqvo qba jwzlmza jg bpm mfqabmvkm wn kqdqt abzqnm
ivl wzoivqhml zmjmttqwv.

Qb eia bpm zmaqabivkm bw zqopbnct icbpwzqbg ivl bpm xmzamdmzqvo ibbmuxba bw
mabijtqap i zmdwtcbqwvizg owdmzvumvb cvlmz bpm Bwxmsi kwvabqbcbqwv epqkp
kicaml bpm xmwxtm wn Sivaia bw kwuuqb bpm ozidm mzzwz wn zmncaqvo bw dwbm
nwz lmtmoibma bw bpm kwvdmvbqwv bw nzium i kwvabqbcbqwv cvlmz i tie vwb
lmvqml bw jm niqz ivl rcab qv qba xzwdqaqwva. Bpqa zmncait bw dwbm pia jmmv
bpm xzwtqnqk awczkm wn itt bpm mdqta epqkp pidm nwttweml, Qv bpmqz
pwabqtqbg bw bpm Bmzzqbwzqit owdmzvumvb bpmg lqazmoizlml bpm xzqvkqxtm,
ijawtcbmtg maamvbqit bw bpm ewzsqvo wn wcz nwzu wn owdmzvumvb, bpib i
uirwzqbg wn bpwam epw dwbm, vwb bpm uirwzqbg epw uig zmuiqv ib pwum, nzwu
epibmdmz kicam, ucab lmkqlm bpm zmactb wn iv mtmkbqwv. Nwz bpqa zmiawv,
ammsqvo bw bism ildivbiom wn bpmqz wev mzzwz, bpmg lmvqml bpm icbpwzqbg wn
bpm kwvdmvbqwv bpca mtmkbml bw nzium i kwvabqbcbqwv.

Bpm kwvdmvbqwv, vwbeqbpabivlqvo, xzwkmmlml bw ilwxb i kwvabqbcbqwv
cvmfkmxbqwvijtm qv qba omvmzit nmibczma, ivl xzwdqlqvo nwz bpm acjuqaaqwv
wn bpm atidmzg ycmabqwv bw i dwbm wn bpm xmwxtm, epqkp, qv ug wxqvqwv, bpmg
emzm jwcvl bw lw cvlmz bpm Sivaia ivl Vmjziasi ikb. Bpqa eia bpm
itt-quxwzbivb ycmabqwv epqkp pil itwvm kwvdctaml bpm Bmzzqbwzg; ivl gmb bpm
wxxwvmvba wn bpm tienct owdmzvumvb, xmzaqabqvo qv bpmqz nqzab mzzwz,
zmnziqvml nzwu mfmzkqaqvo bpmqz zqopb bw dwbm, ivl xzmnmzzml bpib atidmzg
apwctl kwvbqvcm zibpmz bpiv aczzmvlmz bpmqz zmdwtcbqwvizg Bwxmsi
wzoivqhibqwv.

I eqamz ivl jmbbmz axqzqb ammuml bw xzmdiqt jmnwzm bpm nqzab Uwvlig wn
Rivcizg tiab, epmv iv mtmkbqwv eia pmtl cvlmz bpm kwvabqbcbqwv. I uirwzqbg
wn bpm xmwxtm bpmv dwbml nwz i owdmzvwz ivl wbpmz Abibm wnnqkmza, nwz i
Umujmz wn Kwvozmaa ivl umujmza wn bpm Abibm tmoqatibczm. Bpqa mtmkbqwv eia
eizutg kwvbmabml jg bpm bew xwtqbqkit xizbqma qv Sivaia, ivl i ozmibmz dwbm
eia xwttml bpiv ib ivg xzmdqwca mtmkbqwv. I tizom uirwzqbg wn bpm umujmza
wn bpm tmoqatibczm mtmkb jmtwvoml bw bpib xizbg epqkp pil xzmdqwcatg
zmncaml bw dwbm. Bpm ivbqatidmzg xizbg emzm bpca xtikml qv bpm iakmvlivb,
ivl bpm xwtqbqkit xwemz wn bpm Abibm eia qv bpmqz wev pivla. Pil Kwvozmaa
iluqbbml Sivaia qvbw bpm Cvqwv cvlmz bpm Tmkwuxbwv kwvabqbcbqwv, bpm
tmoqatibczm uqopb ib qba dmzg nqzab amaaqwv pidm acjuqbbml bpm ycmabqwv bw
i dwbm wn bpm xmwxtm epmbpmz bpmg ewctl wz ewctl vwb pidm i kwvdmvbqwv bw
iumvl bpmqz kwvabqbcbqwv, mqbpmz wv bpm atidmzg wz ivg wbpmz ycmabqwv, ivl
pidm ilwxbml itt vmkmaaizg umiva nwz oqdqvo axmmlg mnnmkb bw bpm eqtt wn
bpm uirwzqbg. Bpca bpm Sivaia ycmabqwv ewctl pidm jmmv quumlqibmtg ivl
nqvittg ambbtml.

Cvlmz bpmam kqzkcuabivkma Q acjuqbbml bw Kwvozmaa bpm kwvabqbcbqwv bpca
nziuml, eqbp itt bpm wnnqkmza itzmilg mtmkbml vmkmaaizg bw xcb bpm Abibm
owdmzvumvb qvbw wxmzibqwv, ikkwuxivqml jg i abzwvo zmkwuumvlibqwv qv nidwz
wn bpm iluqaaqwv wn Sivaia ia i Abibm. Qv bpm kwczam wn ug twvo xcjtqk tqnm
Q pidm vmdmz xmznwzuml ivg wnnqkqit ikb epqkp qv bpm zmbzwaxmkb pia
innwzlml um uwzm pmizbnmtb aibqanikbqwv. Qba iluqaaqwv kwctl pidm qvntqkbml
vw xwaaqjtm qvrczg wv ivg pcuiv jmqvo, epqtab qb ewctl eqbpqv i jzqmn
xmzqwl pidm zmabwzml xmikm bw Sivaia ivl pizuwvg bw bpm Cvqwv. Qv bpib
mdmvb bpm atidmzg ycmabqwv ewctl mzm bpqa pidm jmmv nqvittg ambbtml
ikkwzlqvo bw bpm tmoittg mfxzmaaml eqtt wn i uirwzqbg wn bpm dwbmza, ivl
xwxctiz awdmzmqovbg ewctl bpca pidm jmmv dqvlqkibml qv i kwvabqbcbqwvit
uivvmz.

Eqbp ug lmmx kwvdqkbqwva wn lcbg Q kwctl pidm xczacml vw wbpmz kwczam. Qb
qa bzcm bpib ia iv qvlqdqlcit Q pil mfxzmaaml iv wxqvqwv, jwbp jmnwzm ivl
lczqvo bpm amaaqwv wn bpm kwvdmvbqwv, qv nidwz wn acjuqbbqvo bpm zmuiqvqvo
kticama wn bpm kwvabqbcbqwv, ia emtt ia bpib kwvkmzvqvo atidmzg, bw bpm
xmwxtm. Jcb, ikbqvo qv iv wnnqkqit kpizikbmz, vmqbpmz ugamtn vwz ivg pcuiv
icbpwzqbg pil bpm xwemz bw zmrclom bpm xzwkmmlqvoa wn bpm kwvdmvbqwv ivl
lmktizm bpm kwvabqbcbqwv epqkp qb pil nziuml bw jm i vcttqbg. Bw pidm lwvm
bpqa ewctl pidm jmmv i dqwtibqwv wn bpm Sivaia ivl Vmjziasi ikb, epqkp tmnb
bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Bmzzqbwzg "xmznmkbtg nzmm bw nwzu ivl zmoctibm bpmqz
lwumabqk qvabqbcbqwva qv bpmqz wev eig, acjrmkb wvtg bw bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma." Qb ewctl mycittg pidm dqwtibml bpm ozmib xzqvkqxtm wn
xwxctiz awdmzmqovbg, ib bpm nwcvlibqwv wn wcz qvabqbcbqwva, bw lmxzqdm bpm
xmwxtm wn bpm xwemz, qn bpmg bpwcopb xzwxmz bw mfmzkqam qb, wn kwvnqlqvo bw
lmtmoibma mtmkbml jg bpmuamtdma bpm bzcab wn nziuqvo i kwvabqbcbqwv eqbpwcb
zmycqzqvo bpmu bw acjrmkb bpmqz kwvabqbcmvba bw bpm bzwcjtm, mfxmvam, ivl
lmtig wn i amkwvl mtmkbqwv. Qb ewctl pidm jmmv qv wxxwaqbqwv bw uivg
xzmkmlmvba qv wcz pqabwzg, kwuumvkqvo qv bpm dmzg jmab iom wn bpm Zmxcjtqk,
wn bpm iluqaaqwv wn Bmzzqbwzqma ia Abibma qvbw bpm Cvqwv eqbpwcb i xzmdqwca
dwbm wn bpm xmwxtm ixxzwdqvo bpmqz kwvabqbcbqwv.

Qb qa bw jm tiumvbml bpib i ycmabqwv aw qvaqovqnqkivb epmv dqmeml qv qba
xzikbqkit mnnmkba wv bpm xmwxtm wn Sivaia, epmbpmz lmkqlml wvm eig wz bpm
wbpmz, apwctl pidm sqvltml ackp i ntium wn mfkqbmumvb bpzwcopwcb bpm
kwcvbzg. Bpqa zmntmkbqwv uig xzwdm bw jm i tmaawv wn eqalwu ivl wn eizvqvo
nwz wcz ncbczm ocqlivkm. Xzikbqkittg kwvaqlmzml, bpm ycmabqwv qa aquxtg
epmbpmz bpm xmwxtm wn bpib Bmzzqbwzg apwctl nqzab kwum qvbw bpm Cvqwv ivl
bpmv kpivom ivg xzwdqaqwv qv bpmqz kwvabqbcbqwv vwb iozmmijtm bw
bpmuamtdma, wz ikkwuxtqap bpm dmzg aium wjrmkb jg zmuiqvqvo wcb wn bpm
Cvqwv ivl nziuqvo ivwbpmz kwvabqbcbqwv qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpmqz eqtt. Qv
mqbpmz kiam bpm zmactb ewctl jm xzmkqamtg bpm aium. Bpm wvtg lqnnmzmvkm, qv
xwqvb wn nikb, qa bpib bpm wjrmkb ewctl pidm jmmv uckp awwvmz ibbiqvml ivl
bpm xikqnqkibqwv wn Sivaia uwzm axmmlqtg mnnmkbml pil qb jmmv iluqbbml ia i
Abibm lczqvo bpm tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa.

Ug zmkwuumvlibqwv, pwemdmz, nwz bpm quumlqibm iluqaaqwv wn Sivaia niqtml bw
ummb bpm ixxzwjibqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Bpmg lmmuml qb eqamz bw ilwxb i lqnnmzmvb
umiaczm nwz bpm ambbtmumvb wn bpm ycmabqwv. Nwz ug wev xizb, Q apwctl pidm
jmmv eqttqvo bw gqmtl ug iaamvb bw ituwab ivg kwvabqbcbqwvit umiaczm bw
ikkwuxtqap bpqa wjrmkb. Q bpmzmnwzm kwzlqittg ikycqmakml qv epib pia jmmv
kittml bpm Mvotqap kwuxzwuqam ivl ixxzwdml bpm "ikb nwz bpm iluqaaqwv wn
bpm Abibm wn Sivaia qvbw bpm Cvqwv" cxwv bpm bmzua bpmzmqv xzmakzqjml.

Cvlmz bpm wzlqvivkm epqkp ikkwuxivqml bpm Tmkwuxbwv kwvabqbcbqwv bpm xmwxtm
wn Sivaia pil ktiquml lwcjtm bpm ycivbqbg wn xcjtqk tivla nwz bpm acxxwzb
wn kwuuwv akpwwta epqkp pil mdmz jmmv xzmdqwcatg ozivbml bw ivg Abibm cxwv
mvbmzqvo bpm Cvqwv, ivl itaw bpm itbmzvibm amkbqwva wn tivl nwz 12 uqtma wv
mikp aqlm wn bew ziqtzwila xzwxwaml bw jm kwvabzckbml nzwu bpm vwzbpmzv bw
bpm awcbpmzv jwcvlizg ivl nzwu bpm miabmzv bw bpm emabmzv jwcvlizg wn bpm
Abibm. Kwvozmaa, lmmuqvo bpmam ktiqua cvzmiawvijtm, xzwdqlml jg bpm ikb wn
Uig 4, 1858, bw epqkp Q pidm rcab zmnmzzml, nwz bpm iluqaaqwv wn bpm Abibm
wv iv mycit nwwbqvo eqbp bpm wzqoqvit Abibma, jcb "cxwv bpm ncvliumvbit
kwvlqbqwv xzmkmlmvb" bpib i uirwzqbg wn bpm xmwxtm bpmzmwn, ib iv mtmkbqwv
bw jm pmtl nwz bpib xczxwam, apwctl, qv xtikm wn bpm dmzg tizom ozivba wn
xcjtqk tivla epqkp bpmg pil lmuivlml cvlmz bpm wzlqvivkm, ikkmxb ackp
ozivba ia pil jmmv uilm bw Uqvvmawbi ivl wbpmz vme Abibma. Cvlmz bpqa ikb,
apwctl i uirwzqbg zmrmkb bpm xzwxwaqbqwv wnnmzml bpmu, "qb apitt jm lmmuml
ivl pmtl bpib bpm xmwxtm wn Sivaia lw vwb lmaqzm iluqaaqwv qvbw bpm Cvqwv
eqbp aiql kwvabqbcbqwv cvlmz bpm kwvlqbqwva amb nwzbp qv aiql xzwxwaqbqwv."
Qv bpib mdmvb bpm ikb icbpwzqhma bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Bmzzqbwzg bw mtmkb
lmtmoibma bw nwzu i kwvabqbcbqwv ivl Abibm owdmzvumvb nwz bpmuamtdma
"epmvmdmz, ivl vwb jmnwzm, qb qa iakmzbiqvml jg i kmvaca, lctg ivl tmoittg
bismv, bpib bpm xwxctibqwv wn aiql Bmzzqbwzg mycita wz mfkmmla bpm zibqw wn
zmxzmamvbibqwv zmycqzml nwz i umujmz wn bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpm
Kwvozmaa wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma." Bpm lmtmoibma bpca iaamujtml "apitt nqzab
lmbmzuqvm jg i dwbm epmbpmz qb qa bpm eqap wn bpm xmwxtm wn bpm xzwxwaml
Abibm bw jm iluqbbml qvbw bpm Cvqwv ib bpib bqum, ivl, qn aw, apitt xzwkmml
bw nwzu i kwvabqbcbqwv ivl bism itt vmkmaaizg abmxa nwz bpm mabijtqapumvb
wn i Abibm owdmzvumvb qv kwvnwzuqbg eqbp bpm Nmlmzit Kwvabqbcbqwv." Inbmz
bpqa kwvabqbcbqwv apitt pidm jmmv nwzuml, Kwvozmaa, kizzgqvo wcb bpm
xzqvkqxtma wn xwxctiz awdmzmqovbg ivl vwvqvbmzdmvbqwv, pidm tmnb "bpm uwlm
ivl uivvmz wn qba ixxzwdit wz zibqnqkibqwv jg bpm xmwxtm wn bpm xzwxwaml
Abibm" bw jm "xzmakzqjml jg tie," ivl bpmg "apitt bpmv jm iluqbbml qvbw bpm
Cvqwv ia i Abibm cvlmz ackp kwvabqbcbqwv, bpca niqztg ivl tmoittg uilm,
eqbp wz eqbpwcb atidmzg, ia aiql kwvabqbcbqwv uig xzmakzqjm."

Iv mtmkbqwv eia pmtl bpzwcopwcb Sivaia, qv xczacivkm wn bpm xzwdqaqwva wn
bpqa ikb, wv bpm 2l lig wn Icocab tiab, ivl qb zmactbml qv bpm zmrmkbqwv jg
i tizom uirwzqbg wn bpm xzwxwaqbqwv acjuqbbml bw bpm xmwxtm jg Kwvozmaa.
Bpqa jmqvo bpm kiam, bpmg izm vwe icbpwzqhml bw nwzu ivwbpmz kwvabqbcbqwv,
xzmxizibwzg bw iluqaaqwv qvbw bpm Cvqwv, jcb vwb cvbqt bpmqz vcujmz, ia
iakmzbiqvml jg i kmvaca, apitt mycit wz mfkmml bpm zibqw zmycqzml bw mtmkb
i umujmz bw bpm Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma.

Qb qa vwb xzwjijtm, qv bpm xzmamvb abibm wn bpm kiam, bpib i bpqzl
kwvabqbcbqwv kiv jm tiencttg nziuml ivl xzmamvbml bw Kwvozmaa jg Sivaia
jmnwzm qba xwxctibqwv apitt pidm zmikpml bpm lmaqovibml vcujmz. Vwz qa qb
bw jm xzmacuml bpib inbmz bpmqz ail mfxmzqmvkm qv zmaqabqvo bpm Bmzzqbwzqit
tiea bpmg eqtt ibbmuxb bw ilwxb i kwvabqbcbqwv qv mfxzmaa dqwtibqwv wn bpm
xzwdqaqwva wn iv ikb wn Kwvozmaa. Lczqvo bpm amaaqwv wn 1856 uckp wn bpm
bqum wn Kwvozmaa eia wkkcxqml wv bpm ycmabqwv wn iluqbbqvo Sivaia cvlmz bpm
Bwxmsi kwvabqbcbqwv. Ioiqv, vmiztg bpm epwtm wn bpm tiab amaaqwv eia
lmdwbml bw bpm ycmabqwv wn qba iluqaaqwv cvlmz bpm Tmkwuxbwv kwvabqbcbqwv.
Aczmtg qb qa vwb cvzmiawvijtm bw zmycqzm bpm xmwxtm wn Sivaia bw eiqb
jmnwzm uisqvo i bpqzl ibbmuxb cvbqt bpm vcujmz wn bpmqz qvpijqbivba apitt
iuwcvb bw 93,420. Lczqvo bpqa jzqmn xmzqwl bpm pizuwvg wn bpm Abibma ia
emtt ia bpm ozmib jcaqvmaa qvbmzmaba wn bpm kwcvbzg lmuivl bpib bpm xmwxtm
wn bpm Cvqwv apitt vwb nwz i bpqzl bqum jm kwvdctaml jg ivwbpmz ioqbibqwv
wv bpm Sivaia ycmabqwv. Jg eiqbqvo nwz i apwzb bqum ivl ikbqvo qv wjmlqmvkm
bw tie Sivaia eqtt otqlm qvbw bpm Cvqwv eqbpwcb bpm atqopbmab quxmlqumvb.

Bpqa mfkmttmvb xzwdqaqwv, epqkp Kwvozmaa pidm ixxtqml bw Sivaia, wcopb bw
jm mfbmvlml ivl zmvlmzml ixxtqkijtm bw itt Bmzzqbwzqma epqkp uig pmzminbmz
amms iluqaaqwv qvbw bpm Cvqwv.

Epqtab Kwvozmaa xwaamaa bpm cvlwcjbml xwemz wn iluqbbqvo i vme Abibm qvbw
bpm Cvqwv, pwemdmz auitt uig jm bpm vcujmz wn qba qvpijqbivba, gmb bpqa
xwemz wcopb vwb, qv ug wxqvqwv, bw jm mfmzkqaml jmnwzm bpm xwxctibqwv apitt
iuwcvb bw bpm zibqw zmycqzml jg bpm ikb nwz bpm iluqaaqwv wn Sivaia. Pil
bpqa jmmv xzmdqwcatg bpm zctm, bpm kwcvbzg ewctl pidm makixml itt bpm mdqta
ivl uqanwzbcvma bw epqkp qb pia jmmv mfxwaml jg bpm Sivaia ycmabqwv.

Wn kwczam qb ewctl jm cvrcab bw oqdm bpqa zctm i zmbzwaxmkbqdm ixxtqkibqwv,
ivl mfktclm i Abibm epqkp, ikbqvo cxwv bpm xiab xzikbqkm wn bpm Owdmzvumvb,
pia itzmilg nwzuml qba kwvabqbcbqwv, mtmkbml qba tmoqatibczm ivl wbpmz
wnnqkmza, ivl qa vwe xzmxizml bw mvbmz bpm Cvqwv. Bpm zctm wcopb bw jm
ilwxbml, epmbpmz em kwvaqlmz qba jmizqvo wv bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Bmzzqbwzqma
wz cxwv bpm xmwxtm wn bpm mfqabqvo Abibma. Uivg wn bpm amzqwca lqaamvbqwva
epqkp pidm xzmdiqtml qv Kwvozmaa ivl bpzwcopwcb bpm kwcvbzg ewctl pidm jmmv
idwqlml pil bpqa zctm jmmv mabijtqapml ib iv miztqmz xmzqwl wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb.

Quumlqibmtg cxwv bpm nwzuibqwv wn i vme Bmzzqbwzg xmwxtm nzwu lqnnmzmvb
Abibma ivl nzwu nwzmqov kwcvbzqma zcap qvbw qb nwz bpm ticlijtm xczxwam wn
quxzwdqvo bpmqz kwvlqbqwv. Bpmqz nqzab lcbg bw bpmuamtdma qa bw wxmv ivl
kctbqdibm nizua, bw kwvabzckb zwila, bw mabijtqap akpwwta, bw mzmkb xtikma
wn zmtqoqwca ewzapqx, ivl bw lmdwbm bpmqz mvmzoqma omvmzittg bw zmktiqu bpm
eqtlmzvmaa ivl bw tig bpm nwcvlibqwva wn i ntwczqapqvo ivl xzwaxmzwca
kwuuwvemitbp. Qn qv bpqa qvkqxqmvb kwvlqbqwv, eqbp i xwxctibqwv wn i nme
bpwcaivl, bpmg apwctl xzmuibczmtg mvbmz bpm Cvqwv, bpmg izm wxxzmaaml jg
bpm jczlmv wn Abibm bifibqwv, ivl bpm umiva vmkmaaizg nwz bpm quxzwdmumvb
wn bpm Bmzzqbwzg ivl bpm ildivkmumvb wn bpmqz wev qvbmzmaba izm bpca
lqdmzbml bw dmzg lqnnmzmvb xczxwama.

Bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb pia mdmz jmmv i tqjmzit xizmvb bw bpm Bmzzqbwzqma
ivl i omvmzwca kwvbzqjcbwz bw bpm camnct mvbmzxzqama wn bpm miztg ambbtmza.
Qb pia xiql bpm mfxmvama wn bpmqz owdmzvumvba ivl tmoqatibqdm iaamujtqma
wcb wn bpm kwuuwv Bzmiaczg, ivl bpca zmtqmdml bpmu nzwu i pmidg kpizom.
Cvlmz bpmam kqzkcuabivkma vwbpqvo kiv jm jmbbmz kitkctibml bw zmbizl bpmqz
uibmzqit xzwozmaa bpiv bw lqdmzb bpmu nzwu bpmqz camnct muxtwgumvba jg
xzmuibczmtg mfkqbqvo ivozg xwtqbqkit kwvbmaba iuwvo bpmuamtdma nwz bpm
jmvmnqb wn iaxqzqvo tmilmza. Qb qa aczmtg vw pizlapqx nwz mujzgw owdmzvwza,
Amvibwza, ivl Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa bw eiqb cvbqt bpm vcujmz wn qvpijqbivba
apitt mycit bpwam wn i aqvotm Kwvozmaaqwvit lqabzqkb. Bpmg aczmtg wcopb vwb
bw jm xmzuqbbml bw zcap qvbw bpm Cvqwv eqbp i xwxctibqwv tmaa bpiv wvm-pitn
wn amdmzit wn bpm tizom kwcvbqma qv bpm qvbmzqwz wn awum wn bpm Abibma.
Bpqa eia bpm kwvlqbqwv wn Sivaia epmv qb uilm ixxtqkibqwv bw jm iluqbbml
cvlmz bpm Bwxmsi kwvabqbcbqwv. Jmaqlma, qb zmycqzma awum bqum bw zmvlmz bpm
uiaa wn i xwxctibqwv kwttmkbml qv i vme Bmzzqbwzg ib itt pwuwomvmwca ivl bw
cvqbm bpmu wv ivgbpqvo tqsm i nqfml xwtqkg. Mabijtqap bpm zctm, ivl itt
eqtt twws nwzeizl bw qb ivl owdmzv bpmuamtdma ikkwzlqvotg. Jcb rcabqkm bw
bpm xmwxtm wn bpm amdmzit Abibma zmycqzma bpib bpqa zctm apwctl jm
mabijtqapml jg Kwvozmaa. Mikp Abibm qa mvbqbtml bw bew Amvibwza ivl ib
tmiab wvm Zmxzmamvbibqdm qv Kwvozmaa. Apwctl bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Abibma niqt
bw mtmkb i Dqkm-Xzmaqlmvb, bpm xwemz lmdwtdma cxwv bpm Amvibm bw amtmkb
bpqa wnnqkmz nzwu bpm bew pqopmab kivlqlibma wv bpm tqab. Qv kiam wn bpm
lmibp wn bpm Xzmaqlmvb, bpm Dqkm-Xzmaqlmvb bpca mtmkbml jg bpm Amvibm
jmkwuma Xzmaqlmvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Wv itt ycmabqwva wn tmoqatibqwv bpm
Amvibwza nzwu bpm auittmab Abibma wn bpm Cvqwv pidm iv mycit dwbm eqbp
bpwam nzwu bpm tizomab. Bpm aium uig jm aiql qv zmoizl bw bpm zibqnqkibqwv
wn bzmibqma ivl wn Mfmkcbqdm ixxwqvbumvba. Itt bpqa pia ewzsml iluqzijtg qv
xzikbqkm, epqtab qb kwvnwzua qv xzqvkqxtm eqbp bpm kpizikbmz wn i
Owdmzvumvb qvabqbcbml jg awdmzmqov Abibma. Q xzmacum vw Iumzqkiv kqbqhmv
ewctl lmaqzm bpm atqopbmab kpivom qv bpm izzivomumvb. Abqtt, qa qb vwb
cvrcab ivl cvmycit bw bpm mfqabqvo Abibma bw qvdmab awum 40,000 wz 50,000
xmwxtm kwttmkbml qv i Bmzzqbwzg eqbp bpm ibbzqjcbma wn awdmzmqovbg ivl
xtikm bpmu wv iv mycit nwwbqvo eqbp Dqzoqvqi ivl Vme Gwzs qv bpm Amvibm wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma?

Nwz bpmam zmiawva Q mizvmabtg zmkwuumvl bpm xiaaiom wn i omvmzit ikb epqkp
apitt xzwdqlm bpib, cxwv bpm ixxtqkibqwv wn i Bmzzqbwzqit tmoqatibczm
lmktizqvo bpmqz jmtqmn bpib bpm Bmzzqbwzg kwvbiqva i vcujmz wn qvpijqbivba
epqkp, qn qv i Abibm, ewctl mvbqbtm bpmu bw mtmkb i Umujmz wn Kwvozmaa, qb
apitt jm bpm lcbg wn bpm Xzmaqlmvb bw kicam i kmvaca wn bpm qvpijqbivba bw
jm bismv, ivl qn nwcvl acnnqkqmvb bpmv jg bpm bmzua wn bpqa ikb bw
icbpwzqhm bpmu bw xzwkmml "qv bpmqz wev eig" bw nzium i Abibm kwvabqbcbqwv
xzmxizibwzg bw iluqaaqwv qvbw bpm Cvqwv. Q itaw zmkwuumvl bpib iv
ixxzwxzqibqwv uig jm uilm bw mvijtm bpm Xzmaqlmvb bw bism i kmvaca wn bpm
xmwxtm wn Sivaia.

Bpm xzmamvb kwvlqbqwv wn bpm Bmzzqbwzg wn Cbip, epmv kwvbziabml eqbp epib
qb eia wvm gmiz iow, qa i acjrmkb nwz kwvozibctibqwv. Qb eia bpmv qv i
abibm wn wxmv zmjmttqwv, ivl, kwab epib qb uqopb, bpm kpizikbmz wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb zmycqzml bpib bpqa zmjmttqwv apwctl jm acxxzmaaml ivl bpm
Uwzuwva kwuxmttml bw gqmtl wjmlqmvkm bw bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv ivl bpm tiea. Qv
wzlmz bw ikkwuxtqap bpqa wjrmkb, ia Q qvnwzuml gwc qv ug tiab ivvcit
umaaiom, Q ixxwqvbml i vme owdmzvwz qvabmil wn Jzqopiu Gwcvo, ivl wbpmz
Nmlmzit wnnqkmza bw bism bpm xtikm wn bpwam epw, kwvactbqvo bpmqz xmzawvit
ainmbg, pil nwcvl qb vmkmaaizg bw eqbplzie nzwu bpm Bmzzqbwzg.

Bw xzwbmkb bpmam kqdqt wnnqkmza, ivl bw iql bpmu, ia i xwaam kwuqbibca, qv
bpm mfmkcbqwv wn bpm tiea qv kiam wn vmml, Q wzlmzml i lmbikpumvb wn bpm
Izug bw ikkwuxivg bpmu bw Cbip. Bpm vmkmaaqbg nwz ilwxbqvo bpmam umiaczma
qa vwe lmuwvabzibml.

Wv bpm 15bp wn Amxbmujmz, 1857, Owdmzvwz Gwcvo qaacml pqa xzwktiuibqwv, qv
bpm abgtm wn iv qvlmxmvlmvb awdmzmqov, ivvwcvkqvo pqa xczxwam bw zmaqab jg
nwzkm wn izua bpm mvbzg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bzwwxa qvbw wcz wev Bmzzqbwzg
wn Cbip. Jg bpqa pm zmycqzml itt bpm nwzkma qv bpm Bmzzqbwzg bw "pwtl
bpmuamtdma qv zmilqvmaa bw uizkp ib i uwumvb'a vwbqkm bw zmxmt ivg ivl itt
ackp qvdiaqwv," ivl mabijtqapml uizbqit tie nzwu qba libm bpzwcopwcb bpm
Bmzzqbwzg. Bpmam xzwdml bw jm vw qltm bpzmiba. Nwzba Jzqlomz ivl Acxxtg
emzm dikibml ivl jczvb lwev jg bpm Uwzuwva bw lmxzqdm wcz bzwwxa wn i
apmtbmz inbmz bpmqz twvo ivl nibqocqvo uizkp. Wzlmza emzm qaacml jg Livqmt
P. Emtta, abgtqvo pquamtn "Tqmcbmvivb Omvmzit, Vicdww Tmoqwv," bw abiuxmlm
bpm ivquita wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bzwwxa wv bpmqz uizkp, bw amb nqzm bw
bpmqz bziqva, bw jczv bpm oziaa ivl bpm epwtm kwcvbzg jmnwzm bpmu ivl wv
bpmqz ntivsa, bw smmx bpmu nzwu atmmxqvo jg vqopb aczxzqama, ivl bw
jtwksilm bpm zwil jg nmttqvo bzmma ivl lmabzwgqvo bpm nwzla wn zqdmza,
mbk.

Bpmam wzlmza emzm xzwuxbtg ivl mnnmkbcittg wjmgml. Wv bpm 4bp wn Wkbwjmz,
1857, bpm Uwzuwva kixbczml ivl jczvml, wv Ozmmv Zqdmz, bpzmm wn wcz acxxtg
bziqva, kwvaqabqvo wn amdmvbg-nqdm eiowva twilml eqbp xzwdqaqwva ivl bmvba
nwz bpm izug, ivl kizzqml ieig amdmzit pcvlzml ivquita. Bpqa lquqvqapml bpm
acxxtg wn xzwdqaqwva aw uibmzqittg bpib Omvmzit Rwpvabwv eia wjtqoml bw
zmlckm bpm zibqwv, ivl mdmv eqbp bpqa xzmkicbqwv bpmzm eia wvtg acnnqkqmvb
tmnb bw acjaqab bpm bzwwxa cvbqt bpm 1ab wn Rcvm.

Wcz tqbbtm izug jmpidml iluqzijtg qv bpmqz mvkiuxumvb ib Nwzb Jzqlomz cvlmz
bpmam bzgqvo xzqdibqwva. Qv bpm uqlab wn bpm uwcvbiqva, qv i lzmizg,
cvambbtml, ivl qvpwaxqbijtm zmoqwv, uwzm bpiv i bpwcaivl uqtma nzwu pwum,
bpmg xiaaml bpm amdmzm ivl qvktmumvb eqvbmz eqbpwcb i uczucz. Bpmg twwsml
nwzeizl eqbp kwvnqlmvkm nwz zmtqmn nzwu bpmqz kwcvbzg qv lcm amiawv, ivl qv
bpqa bpmg emzm vwb lqaixxwqvbml. Bpm Amkzmbizg wn Eiz muxtwgml itt pqa
mvmzoqma bw nwzeizl bpmu bpm vmkmaaizg acxxtqma ivl bw ucabmz ivl amvl ackp
i uqtqbizg nwzkm bw Cbip ia ewctl zmvlmz zmaqabivkm wv bpm xizb wn bpm
Uwzuwva pwxmtmaa, ivl bpca bmzuqvibm bpm eiz eqbpwcb bpm mnncaqwv wn jtwwl.
Qv pqa mnnwzba pm eia mnnqkqmvbtg acabiqvml jg Kwvozmaa. Bpmg ozivbml
ixxzwxzqibqwva acnnqkqmvb bw kwdmz bpm lmnqkqmvkg bpca vmkmaaizqtg kzmibml,
ivl itaw xzwdqlml nwz ziqaqvo bew zmoqumvba wn dwtcvbmmza "nwz bpm xczxwam
wn ycmttqvo lqabczjivkma qv bpm Bmzzqbwzg wn Cbip, nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn
acxxtg ivl muqozivb bziqva, ivl bpm acxxzmaaqwv wn Qvlqiv pwabqtqbqma wv
bpm nzwvbqmza." Pixxqtg, bpmzm eia vw wkkiaqwv bw kitt bpmam zmoqumvba qvbw
amzdqkm. Qn bpmzm pil jmmv, Q apwctl pidm nmtb amzqwca mujizziaaumvb qv
amtmkbqvo bpmu, aw ozmib eia bpm vcujmz wn wcz jzidm ivl xibzqwbqk kqbqhmva
ivfqwca bw amzdm bpmqz kwcvbzg qv bpqa lqabivb ivl ixxizmvbtg livomzwca
mfxmlqbqwv. Bpca qb pia mdmz jmmv, ivl bpca uig qb mdmz jm.

Bpm eqalwu ivl mkwvwug wn amvlqvo acnnqkqmvb zmmvnwzkmumvba bw Cbip izm
mabijtqapml, vwb wvtg jg bpm mdmvb, jcb qv bpm wxqvqwv wn bpwam epw nzwu
bpmqz xwaqbqwv ivl wxxwzbcvqbqma izm bpm uwab kixijtm wn nwzuqvo i kwzzmkb
rcloumvb. Omvmzit Rwpvabwv, bpm kwuuivlmz wn bpm nwzkma, qv illzmaaqvo bpm
Amkzmbizg wn Eiz nzwu Nwzb Jzqlomz cvlmz libm wn Wkbwjmz 18, 1857,
mfxzmaama bpm wxqvqwv bpib "cvtmaa i tizom nwzkm qa amvb pmzm, nzwu bpm
vibczm wn bpm kwcvbzg i xzwbzikbml eiz wv bpmqz [bpm Uwzuwva'a] xizb qa
qvmdqbijtm." Bpqa pm kwvaqlmzml vmkmaaizg bw bmzuqvibm bpm eiz "axmmlqtg
ivl uwzm mkwvwuqkittg bpiv qn ibbmuxbml jg qvacnnqkqmvb umiva."

Qv bpm umivbqum qb eia ug ivfqwca lmaqzm bpib bpm Uwzuwva apwctl gqmtl
wjmlqmvkm bw bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv ivl bpm tiea eqbpwcb zmvlmzqvo qb vmkmaaizg
bw zmawzb bw uqtqbizg nwzkm. Bw iql qv ikkwuxtqapqvo bpqa wjrmkb, Q lmmuml
qb ildqaijtm qv Ixzqt tiab bw lqaxibkp bew lqabqvocqapml kqbqhmva wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma, Umaaza. Xwemtt ivl UkKcttwkp, bw Cbip. Bpmg jwzm eqbp bpmu i
xzwktiuibqwv illzmaaml jg ugamtn bw bpm qvpijqbivba wn Cbip, libml wv bpm
6bp lig wn bpib uwvbp, eizvqvo bpmu wn bpmqz bzcm kwvlqbqwv ivl pwe
pwxmtmaa qb eia wv bpmqz xizb bw xmzaqab qv zmjmttqwv ioiqvab bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, ivl wnnmzqvo itt bpwam epw apwctl acjuqb bw bpm tiea i nctt xizlwv
nwz bpmqz xiab amlqbqwva ivl bzmiawva. Ib bpm aium bqum Q iaaczml bpwam epw
apwctl xmzaqab qv zmjmttqwv ioiqvab bpm Cvqbml Abibma bpib bpmg ucab mfxmkb
vw nczbpmz tmvqbg, jcb twws bw jm zqowzwcatg lmitb eqbp ikkwzlqvo bw bpmqz
lmamzba. Bpm qvabzckbqwva bw bpmam iomvba, ia emtt ia i kwxg wn bpm
xzwktiuibqwv ivl bpmqz zmxwzba, izm pmzmeqbp acjuqbbml. Qb eqtt jm ammv jg
bpmqz zmxwzb wn bpm 3l wn Rctg tiab bpib bpmg pidm ncttg kwvnqzuml bpm
wxqvqwv mfxzmaaml jg Omvmzit Rwpvabwv qv bpm xzmdqwca Wkbwjmz ia bw bpm
vmkmaaqbg wn amvlqvo zmmvnwzkmumvba bw Cbip. Qv bpqa bpmg abibm bpib bpmg
"izm nqzutg quxzmaaml eqbp bpm jmtqmn bpib bpm xzmamvkm wn bpm Izug pmzm
ivl bpm tizom illqbqwvit nwzkm bpib pil jmmv wzlmzml bw bpqa Bmzzqbwzg emzm
bpm kpqmn qvlckmumvba bpib kicaml bpm Uwzuwva bw ijivlwv bpm qlmi wn
zmaqabqvo bpm icbpwzqbg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. I tmaa lmkqaqdm xwtqkg ewctl
xzwjijtg pidm zmactbml qv i twvo, jtwwlg, ivl mfxmvaqdm eiz."

Bpmam omvbtmumv kwvlckbml bpmuamtdma bw ug mvbqzm aibqanikbqwv ivl zmvlmzml
camnct amzdqkma qv mfmkcbqvo bpm pcuivm qvbmvbqwva wn bpm Owdmzvumvb.

Qb itaw innwzla um ozmib aibqanikbqwv bw abibm bpib Owdmzvwz Kcuuqvo pia
xmznwzuml pqa lcbg qv iv ijtm ivl kwvkqtqibwzg uivvmz ivl eqbp bpm pixxqmab
mnnmkb. Q kiv vwb qv bpqa kwvvmkbqwv zmnziqv nzwu umvbqwvqvo bpm ditcijtm
amzdqkma wn Kwtwvmt Bpwuia T. Sivm, epw, nzwu uwbqdma wn xczm jmvmdwtmvkm
ivl eqbpwcb ivg wnnqkqit kpizikbmz wz xmkcvqizg kwuxmvaibqwv, dqaqbml Cbip
lczqvo bpm tiab qvktmumvb eqvbmz nwz bpm xczxwam wn kwvbzqjcbqvo bw bpm
xikqnqkibqwv wn bpm Bmzzqbwzg.

Q iu pixxg bw qvnwzu gwc bpib bpm owdmzvwz ivl wbpmz kqdqt wnnqkmza wn Cbip
izm vwe xmznwzuqvo bpmqz ixxzwxzqibm ncvkbqwva eqbpwcb zmaqabivkm. Bpm
icbpwzqbg wn bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv ivl bpm tiea pia jmmv ncttg zmabwzml ivl
xmikm xzmdiqta bpzwcopwcb bpm Bmzzqbwzg. I xwzbqwv wn bpm bzwwxa amvb bw
Cbip izm vwe mvkiuxml qv Kmliz Dittmg, 44 uqtma awcbpemab wn Aitb Tism
Kqbg, ivl bpm zmuiqvlmz pidm jmmv wzlmzml bw Wzmowv bw acxxzmaa Qvlqiv
pwabqtqbqma.

Bpm uizkp wn bpm izug bw Aitb Tism Kqbg bpzwcop bpm Qvlqiv Bmzzqbwzg pia pil
i xwemznct mnnmkb qv zmabziqvqvo bpm pwabqtm nmmtqvoa ioiqvab bpm Cvqbml
Abibma epqkp mfqabml iuwvo bpm Qvlqiva qv bpib zmoqwv ivl qv amkczqvo
muqozivba bw bpm niz Emab ioiqvab bpmqz lmxzmlibqwva. Bpqa eqtt itaw jm bpm
umiva wn mabijtqapqvo uqtqbizg xwaba ivl xzwuwbqvo ambbtmumvba itwvo bpm
zwcbm. Q zmkwuumvl bpib bpm jmvmnqba wn wcz tivl tiea ivl xzmmuxbqwv agabmu
jm mfbmvlml bw bpm xmwxtm wn Cbip jg bpm mabijtqapumvb wn i tivl wnnqkm qv
bpib Bmzzqbwzg.

Q pidm wkkiaqwv itaw bw kwvozibctibm gwc wv bpm zmactb wn wcz vmowbqibqwva
eqbp Kpqvi.

Gwc emzm qvnwzuml jg ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom bpib wcz uqvqabmz pil jmmv
qvabzckbml bw wkkcxg i vmcbzit xwaqbqwv qv bpm pwabqtqbqma kwvlckbml jg
Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl Nzivkm ioiqvab Kivbwv. Pm eia, pwemdmz, ib bpm aium bqum
lqzmkbml bw kwwxmzibm kwzlqittg eqbp bpm Jzqbqap ivl Nzmvkp uqvqabmza qv
itt xmikmnct umiaczma bw amkczm jg bzmibg bpwam rcab kwvkmaaqwva bw nwzmqov
kwuumzkm epqkp bpm vibqwva wn bpm ewztl pil i zqopb bw lmuivl. Qb eia
quxwaaqjtm nwz um bw xzwkmml nczbpmz bpiv bpqa wv ug wev icbpwzqbg eqbpwcb
caczxqvo bpm eiz-uisqvo xwemz, epqkp cvlmz bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv jmtwvoa
mfktcaqdmtg bw Kwvozmaa.

Jmaqlma, inbmz i kizmnct mfiuqvibqwv wn bpm vibczm ivl mfbmvb wn wcz
ozqmdivkma, Q lql vwb jmtqmdm bpmg emzm wn ackp i xzmaaqvo ivl ioozidibml
kpizikbmz ia ewctl pidm rcabqnqml Kwvozmaa qv lmktizqvo eiz ioiqvab bpm
Kpqvmam Muxqzm eqbpwcb nqzab uisqvo ivwbpmz mizvmab ibbmuxb bw ilrcab bpmu
jg xmikmnct vmowbqibqwv. Q eia bpm uwzm qvktqvml bw bpqa wxqvqwv jmkicam wn
bpm amdmzm kpiabqamumvb epqkp pil bpmv jcb zmkmvbtg jmmv qvntqkbml cxwv bpm
Kpqvmam jg wcz aycilzwv qv bpm kixbczm ivl lmabzckbqwv wn bpm Jizzqmz nwzba
bw idmvom iv ittmoml qvactb bw wcz ntio. Bpm mdmvb pia xzwdml bpm eqalwu wn
wcz vmcbzitqbg. Wcz uqvqabmz pia mfmkcbml pqa qvabzckbqwva eqbp muqvmvb
asqtt ivl ijqtqbg. Qv kwvrcvkbqwv eqbp bpm Zcaaqiv xtmvqxwbmvbqizg, pm pia
xmikmncttg, jcb mnnmkbcittg, kwwxmzibml eqbp bpm Mvotqap ivl Nzmvkp
xtmvqxwbmvbqizqma, ivl mikp wn bpm nwcz xwemza pia kwvktclml i amxizibm
bzmibg eqbp Kpqvi wn i pqoptg aibqanikbwzg kpizikbmz. Bpm bzmibg kwvktclml
jg wcz wev xtmvqxwbmvbqizg eqtt quumlqibmtg jm acjuqbbml bw bpm Amvibm.

Q iu pixxg bw ivvwcvkm bpib bpzwcop bpm mvmzombqk gmb kwvkqtqibwzg mnnwzba
wn wcz kwvact-omvmzit qv Rixiv i vme bzmibg pia jmmv kwvktclml eqbp bpib
Muxqzm, epqkp uig jm mfxmkbml uibmzqittg bw icoumvb wcz bzilm ivl
qvbmzkwczam qv bpib ycizbmz ivl zmuwdm nzwu wcz kwcvbzgumv bpm lqaijqtqbqma
epqkp pidm pmzmbwnwzm jmmv quxwaml cxwv bpm mfmzkqam wn bpmqz zmtqoqwv. Bpm
bzmibg apitt jm acjuqbbml bw bpm Amvibm nwz ixxzwdit eqbpwcb lmtig.

Qb qa ug mizvmab lmaqzm bpib mdmzg uqacvlmzabivlqvo eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn
Ozmib Jzqbiqv apwctl jm iuqkijtg ivl axmmlqtg ilrcabml. Qb pia jmmv bpm
uqanwzbcvm wn jwbp kwcvbzqma, ituwab mdmz aqvkm bpm xmzqwl wn bpm
Zmdwtcbqwv, bw pidm jmmv ivvwgml jg i ackkmaaqwv wn qzzqbibqvo ivl
livomzwca ycmabqwva, bpzmibmvqvo bpmqz nzqmvltg zmtibqwva. Bpqa pia
xizbqittg xzmdmvbml bpm nctt lmdmtwxumvb wn bpwam nmmtqvoa wn ucbcit
nzqmvlapqx jmbemmv bpm xmwxtm wn bpm bew kwcvbzqma aw vibczit qv bpmuamtdma
ivl aw kwvlckqdm bw bpmqz kwuuwv qvbmzmab. Ivg amzqwca qvbmzzcxbqwv wn bpm
kwuumzkm jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv ewctl jm mycittg
qvrczqwca bw jwbp. Qv nikb, vw bew vibqwva pidm mdmz mfqabml wv bpm nikm wn
bpm mizbp epqkp kwctl lw mikp wbpmz aw uckp owwl wz aw uckp pizu.

Mvbmzbiqvqvo bpmam amvbqumvba, Q iu ozibqnqml bw qvnwzu gwc bpib bpm
twvo-xmvlqvo kwvbzwdmzag jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba qv zmtibqwv bw bpm
ycmabqwv wn dqaqbibqwv ivl amizkp pia jmmv iuqkijtg ilrcabml. Bpm ktiqu wv
bpm xizb wn Ozmib Jzqbiqv nwzkqjtg bw dqaqb Iumzqkiv dmaamta wv bpm pqop
amia qv bqum wn xmikm kwctl vwb jm acabiqvml cvlmz bpm tie wn vibqwva, ivl
qb pil jmmv wdmzzctml jg pmz wev uwab muqvmvb rczqaba. Bpqa ycmabqwv eia
zmkmvbtg jzwcopb bw iv qaacm jg bpm zmxmibml ikba wn Jzqbqap kzcqamza qv
jwizlqvo ivl amizkpqvo wcz umzkpivb dmaamta qv bpm Octn wn Umfqkw ivl bpm
ilrikmvb amia. Bpmam ikba emzm bpm uwzm qvrczqwca ivl ivvwgqvo, ia bpmam
eibmza izm bzidmzaml jg i tizom xwzbqwv wn bpm kwuumzkm ivl vidqoibqwv wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl bpmqz nzmm ivl cvzmabzqkbml cam qa maamvbqit bw bpm
amkczqbg wn bpm kwiabeqam bzilm jmbemmv bpm lqnnmzmvb Abibma wn bpm Cvqwv.
Ackp dmfibqwca qvbmzzcxbqwva kwctl vwb niqt bw mfkqbm bpm nmmtqvoa wn bpm
kwcvbzg ivl bw zmycqzm bpm qvbmzxwaqbqwv wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Zmuwvabzivkma
emzm illzmaaml bw bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb ioiqvab bpmam dqwtibqwva wn wcz
zqopba wn awdmzmqovbg, ivl i vidit nwzkm eia ib bpm aium bqum wzlmzml bw
bpm Kcjiv eibmza eqbp lqzmkbqwva "bw xzwbmkb itt dmaamta wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma wv bpm pqop amia nzwu amizkp wz lmbmvbqwv jg bpm dmaamta wn eiz wn
ivg wbpmz vibqwv." Bpmam umiaczma zmkmqdml bpm cvycitqnqml ivl mdmv
mvbpcaqiabqk ixxzwjibqwv wn bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm. Uwab nwzbcvibmtg, pwemdmz,
vw kwttqaqwv bwws xtikm, ivl bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb xzwuxbtg idweml qba
zmkwovqbqwv wn bpm xzqvkqxtma wn qvbmzvibqwvit tie cxwv bpqa acjrmkb ia
tiql lwev jg bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv bpm vwbm wn bpm
Amkzmbizg wn Abibm bw bpm Jzqbqap uqvqabmz ib Eiapqvobwv wn Ixzqt 10, 1858,
epqkp amkczm bpm dmaamta wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma cxwv bpm pqop amia nzwu
dqaqbibqwv wz amizkp qv bqum wn xmikm cvlmz ivg kqzkcuabivkma epibmdmz. Bpm
ktiqu pia jmmv ijivlwvml qv i uivvmz zmntmkbqvo pwvwz wv bpm Jzqbqap
Owdmzvumvb ivl mdqvkqvo i rcab zmoizl nwz bpm tie wn vibqwva, ivl kiv vwb
niqt bw abzmvobpmv bpm iuqkijtm zmtibqwva jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma.

Bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb ib bpm aium bqum xzwxwaml bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma bpib
awum uwlm apwctl jm ilwxbml, jg ucbcit izzivomumvb jmbemmv bpm bew
kwcvbzqma, wn i kpizikbmz epqkp uig jm nwcvl mnnmkbqdm eqbpwcb jmqvo
wnnmvaqdm, nwz dmzqngqvo bpm vibqwvitqbg wn dmaamta acaxmkbml wv owwl
ozwcvla wn kizzgqvo nitam kwtwza. Bpmg pidm itaw qvdqbml bpm Cvqbml Abibma
bw bism bpm qvqbqibqdm ivl xzwxwam umiaczma nwz bpqa xczxwam. Epqtab
lmktqvqvo bw iaacum aw ozidm i zmaxwvaqjqtqbg, bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm pia
qvnwzuml bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb bpib em izm zmilg bw zmkmqdm ivg xzwxwaita
epqkp bpmg uig nmmt lqaxwaml bw wnnmz pidqvo bpqa wjrmkb qv dqme, ivl bw
kwvaqlmz bpmu qv iv iuqkijtm axqzqb. I abzwvo wxqvqwv qa, pwemdmz,
mfxzmaaml bpib bpm wkkiaqwvit ijcam wn bpm ntio wn ivg vibqwv qa iv mdqt
niz tmaa bw jm lmxzmkibml bpiv ewctl jm bpm mabijtqapumvb wn ivg
zmoctibqwva epqkp uqopb jm qvkwuxibqjtm eqbp bpm nzmmlwu wn bpm amia. Bpqa
Owdmzvumvb pia gmb zmkmqdml vw kwuucvqkibqwv axmkqngqvo bpm uivvmz qv epqkp
bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb ewctl xzwxwam bw kizzg wcb bpmqz acoomabqwv, ivl Q
iu qvktqvml bw jmtqmdm bpib vw xtiv epqkp kiv jm lmdqaml eqtt jm nzmm nzwu
ozidm mujizziaaumvba. Abqtt, Q apitt nwzu vw lmkqlml wxqvqwv wv bpm acjrmkb
cvbqt Q apitt pidm kizmncttg ivl qv bpm jmab axqzqb mfiuqvml ivg xzwxwaita
epqkp bpmg uig bpqvs xzwxmz bw uism.

Q iu bzctg awzzg Q kiv vwb itaw qvnwzu gwc bpib bpm kwuxtqkibqwva jmbemmv
Ozmib Jzqbiqv ivl bpm Cvqbml Abibma izqaqvo wcb wn bpm Ktigbwv ivl Jctemz
bzmibg wn Ixzqt, 1850, pidm jmmv nqvittg ilrcabml.

Ib bpm kwuumvkmumvb wn gwcz tiab amaaqwv Q pil zmiawv bw pwxm bpib,
muivkqxibqvo bpmuamtdma nzwu nczbpmz cvidiqtqvo lqakcaaqwva, bpm bew
Owdmzvumvba ewctl xzwkmml bw ambbtm bpm Kmvbzit Iumzqkiv ycmabqwva qv i
xzikbqkit uivvmz, itqsm pwvwzijtm ivl aibqanikbwzg bw jwbp; ivl bpqa pwxm Q
pidm vwb gmb ijivlwvml. Qv ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom Q abibml bpib wdmzbczma
pil jmmv uilm jg bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb nwz bpqa xczxwam qv i nzqmvltg
axqzqb, epqkp Q kwzlqittg zmkqxzwkibml. Bpmqz xzwxwait eia bw eqbplzie
bpmam ycmabqwva nzwu lqzmkb vmowbqibqwv jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba, jcb bw
ikkwuxtqap bpm aium wjrmkb jg i vmowbqibqwv jmbemmv bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb
ivl mikp wn bpm Kmvbzit Iumzqkiv Zmxcjtqka epwam bmzzqbwzqit qvbmzmaba izm
quumlqibmtg qvdwtdml. Bpm ambbtmumvb eia bw jm uilm qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpm
omvmzit bmvwz wn bpm qvbmzxzmbibqwv xtikml cxwv bpm Ktigbwv ivl Jctemz
bzmibg jg bpm Cvqbml Abibma, eqbp kmzbiqv uwlqnqkibqwva. Ia vmowbqibqwva
izm abqtt xmvlqvo cxwv bpqa jiaqa, qb ewctl vwb jm xzwxmz nwz um vwe bw
kwuucvqkibm bpmqz xzmamvb kwvlqbqwv. I nqvit ambbtmumvb wn bpmam ycmabqwva
qa ozmibtg bw jm lmaqzml, ia bpqa ewctl eqxm wcb bpm tiab zmuiqvqvo acjrmkb
wn lqaxcbm jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma.

Wcz zmtibqwva eqbp bpm ozmib Muxqzma wn Nzivkm ivl Zcaaqi, ia emtt ia eqbp
itt wbpmz Owdmzvumvba wv bpm kwvbqvmvb wn Mczwxm, mfkmxb bpib wn Axiqv,
kwvbqvcm bw jm wn bpm uwab nzqmvltg kpizikbmz.

Eqbp Axiqv wcz zmtibqwva zmuiqv qv iv cvaibqanikbwzg kwvlqbqwv. Qv ug
umaaiom wn Lmkmujmz tiab Q qvnwzuml gwc bpib wcz mvdwg mfbziwzlqvizg ivl
uqvqabmz xtmvqxwbmvbqizg bw Uilzql pil iasml nwz pqa zmkitt, ivl qb eia ug
xczxwam bw amvl wcb i vme uqvqabmz bw bpib Kwczb eqbp axmkqit qvabzckbqwva
wv itt ycmabqwva xmvlqvo jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba, ivl eqbp i
lmbmzuqvibqwv bw pidm bpmu axmmlqtg ivl iuqkijtg ilrcabml qn bpib emzm
xwaaqjtm. Bpqa xczxwam pia jmmv pqbpmzbw lmnmibml jg kicama epqkp Q vmml
vwb mvcumzibm. Bpm uqaaqwv bw Axiqv pia jmmv qvbzcabml bw i lqabqvocqapml
kqbqhmv wn Smvbcksg, epw eqtt xzwkmml bw Uilzql eqbpwcb lmtig ivl uism
ivwbpmz ivl i nqvit ibbmuxb bw wjbiqv rcabqkm nzwu bpib Owdmzvumvb.

Axivqap wnnqkqita cvlmz bpm lqzmkb kwvbzwt wn bpm Kixbiqv-Omvmzit wn Kcji
pidm qvactbml wcz vibqwvit ntio ivl qv zmxmibml qvabivkma pidm nzwu bqum bw
bqum qvntqkbml qvrczqma wv bpm xmzawva ivl xzwxmzbg wn wcz kqbqhmva. Bpmam
pidm oqdmv jqzbp bw vcumzwca ktiqua ioiqvab bpm Axivqap Owdmzvumvb, bpm
umzqba wn epqkp pidm jmmv ijtg lqakcaaml nwz i amzqma wn gmiza jg wcz
ackkmaaqdm lqxtwuibqk zmxzmamvbibqdma. Vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpqa, em pidm vwb
izzqdml ib i xzikbqkit zmactb qv ivg aqvotm qvabivkm, cvtmaa em uig mfkmxb
bpm kiam wn bpm Jtiks Eizzqwz, cvlmz bpm tibm Iluqvqabzibqwv, ivl bpib
xzmamvbml iv wcbziom wn ackp i kpizikbmz ia ewctl pidm rcabqnqml iv
quumlqibm zmawzb bw eiz. Itt wcz ibbmuxba bw wjbiqv zmlzmaa pidm jmmv
jinntml ivl lmnmibml. Bpm nzmycmvb ivl wnb-zmkczzqvo kpivoma qv bpm Axivqap
uqvqabzg pidm jmmv muxtwgml ia zmiawva nwz lmtig. Em pidm jmmv kwuxmttml bw
eiqb ioiqv ivl ioiqv cvbqt bpm vme uqvqabmz apitt pidm pil bqum bw
qvdmabqoibm bpm rcabqkm wn wcz lmuivla.

Mdmv epib pidm jmmv lmvwuqvibml "bpm Kcjiv ktiqua," qv epqkp uwzm bpiv 100
wn wcz kqbqhmva izm lqzmkbtg qvbmzmabml, pidm nczvqapml vw mfkmxbqwv. Bpmam
ktiqua emzm nwz bpm zmncvlqvo wn lcbqma cvrcabtg mfikbml nzwu Iumzqkiv
dmaamta ib lqnnmzmvb kcabwu-pwcama qv Kcji aw twvo iow ia bpm gmiz 1844.
Bpm xzqvkqxtma cxwv epqkp bpmg zmab izm aw uivqnmabtg mycqbijtm ivl rcab
bpib, inbmz i xmzqwl wn vmiztg bmv gmiza, qv 1854 bpmg emzm zmkwovqhml jg
bpm Axivqap Owdmzvumvb. Xzwkmmlqvoa emzm inbmzeizla qvabqbcbml bw iakmzbiqv
bpmqz iuwcvb, ivl bpqa eia nqvittg nqfml, ikkwzlqvo bw bpmqz wev abibmumvb
(eqbp epqkp em emzm aibqanqml), ib bpm acu wn $128,635.54. Rcab ib bpm
uwumvb, inbmz i lmtig wn nwczbmmv gmiza, epmv em pil zmiawv bw mfxmkb bpib
bpqa acu ewctl jm zmxiql eqbp qvbmzmab, em pidm zmkmqdml i xzwxwait
wnnmzqvo bw zmncvl wvm-bpqzl wn bpib iuwcvb ($42,878.41), jcb eqbpwcb
qvbmzmab, qn em ewctl ikkmxb bpqa qv nctt aibqanikbqwv. Bpm wnnmz qa itaw
ikkwuxivqml jg i lmktizibqwv bpib bpqa qvlmuvqnqkibqwv qa vwb nwcvlml wv
ivg zmiawv wn abzqkb rcabqkm, jcb qa uilm ia i axmkqit nidwz.

Wvm ittmoml kicam nwz xzwkziabqvibqwv qv bpm mfiuqvibqwv ivl ilrcabumvb wn
wcz ktiqua izqama nzwu iv wjabiktm epqkp qb qa bpm lcbg wn bpm Axivqap
Owdmzvumvb bw zmuwdm. Epqtab bpm Kixbiqv-Omvmzit wn Kcji qa qvdmabml eqbp
omvmzit lmaxwbqk icbpwzqbg qv bpm owdmzvumvb wn bpib qativl, bpm xwemz qa
eqbppmtl nzwu pqu bw mfiuqvm ivl zmlzmaa ezwvoa kwuuqbbml jg wnnqkqita
cvlmz pqa kwvbzwt wv kqbqhmva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Qvabmil wn uisqvo wcz
kwuxtiqvba lqzmkbtg bw pqu ib Pidivi, em izm wjtqoml bw xzmamvb bpmu
bpzwcop wcz uqvqabmz ib Uilzql. Bpmam izm bpmv zmnmzzml jiks bw bpm
Kixbiqv-Omvmzit nwz qvnwzuibqwv, ivl uckp bqum qa bpca kwvacuml qv
xzmtquqvizg qvdmabqoibqwva ivl kwzzmaxwvlmvkm jmbemmv Uilzql ivl Kcji
jmnwzm bpm Axivqap Owdmzvumvb eqtt kwvamvb bw xzwkmml bw vmowbqibqwv. Uivg
wn bpm lqnnqkctbqma jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba ewctl jm wjdqibml ivl i
twvo bziqv wn vmowbqibqwv idwqlml qn bpm Kixbiqv-Omvmzit emzm qvdmabml eqbp
icbpwzqbg bw ambbtm ycmabqwva wn miag awtcbqwv wv bpm axwb, epmzm itt bpm
nikba izm nzmap ivl kwctl jm xzwuxbtg ivl aibqanikbwzqtg iakmzbiqvml. Em
pidm pqbpmzbw qv diqv czoml cxwv bpm Axivqap Owdmzvumvb bw kwvnmz bpqa
xwemz cxwv bpm Kixbiqv-Omvmzit, ivl wcz uqvqabmz bw Axiqv eqtt ioiqv jm
qvabzckbml bw czom bpqa acjrmkb wv bpmqz vwbqkm. Qv bpqa zmaxmkb em wkkcxg
i lqnnmzmvb xwaqbqwv nzwu bpm xwemza wn Mczwxm. Kcji qa ituwab eqbpqv aqopb
wn wcz apwzma; wcz kwuumzkm eqbp qb qa niz ozmibmz bpiv bpib wn ivg wbpmz
vibqwv, qvktclqvo Axiqv qbamtn, ivl wcz kqbqhmva izm qv pijqba wn liqtg ivl
mfbmvlml xmzawvit qvbmzkwczam eqbp mdmzg xizb wn bpm qativl. Qb qa
bpmzmnwzm i ozmib ozqmdivkm bpib epmv ivg lqnnqkctbg wkkcza, vw uibbmz pwe
cvquxwzbivb, epqkp uqopb jm zmilqtg ambbtml ib bpm uwumvb, em apwctl jm
wjtqoml bw zmawzb bw Uilzql, maxmkqittg epmv bpm dmzg nqzab abmx bw jm
bismv bpmzm qa bw zmnmz qb jiks bw Kcji.

Bpm bzcbp qa bpib Kcji, qv qba mfqabqvo kwtwvqit kwvlqbqwv, qa i kwvabivb
awczkm wn qvrczg ivl ivvwgivkm bw bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm. Qb qa bpm wvtg axwb
qv bpm kqdqtqhml ewztl epmzm bpm Inzqkiv atidm bzilm qa bwtmzibml, ivl em
izm jwcvl jg bzmibg eqbp Ozmib Jzqbiqv bw uiqvbiqv i vidit nwzkm wv bpm
kwiab wn Inzqki, ib uckp mfxmvam jwbp wn tqnm ivl bzmiaczm, awtmtg nwz bpm
xczxwam wn izzmabqvo atidmza jwcvl bw bpib qativl. Bpm tibm amzqwca
lqnnqkctbqma jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv zmaxmkbqvo bpm
zqopb wn amizkp, vwe aw pixxqtg bmzuqvibml, kwctl vmdmz pidm izqamv qn Kcji
pil vwb innwzlml i uizsmb nwz atidma. Ia twvo ia bpqa uizsmb apitt zmuiqv
wxmv bpmzm kiv jm vw pwxm nwz bpm kqdqtqhibqwv wn jmvqopbml Inzqki. Epqtab
bpm lmuivl nwz atidma kwvbqvcma qv Kcji eiza eqtt jm eioml iuwvo bpm xmbbg
ivl jizjizwca kpqmna qv Inzqki nwz bpm xczxwam wn amqhqvo acjrmkba bw
acxxtg bpqa bzilm. Qv ackp i kwvlqbqwv wn inniqza qb qa quxwaaqjtm bpib bpm
tqopb wn kqdqtqhibqwv ivl zmtqoqwv kiv mdmz xmvmbzibm bpmam lizs ijwlma.

Qb pia jmmv uilm svwev bw bpm ewztl jg ug xzmlmkmaawza bpib bpm Cvqbml
Abibma pidm wv amdmzit wkkiaqwva mvlmidwzml bw ikycqzm Kcji nzwu Axiqv jg
pwvwzijtm vmowbqibqwv. Qn bpqa emzm ikkwuxtqapml, bpm tiab zmtqk wn bpm
Inzqkiv atidm bzilm ewctl qvabivbtg lqaixxmiz. Em ewctl vwb, qn em kwctl,
ikycqzm Kcji qv ivg wbpmz uivvmz. Bpqa qa lcm bw wcz vibqwvit kpizikbmz.
Itt bpm bmzzqbwzg epqkp em pidm ikycqzml aqvkm bpm wzqoqv wn bpm Owdmzvumvb
pia jmmv jg niqz xczkpiam nzwu Nzivkm, Axiqv, ivl Umfqkw wz jg bpm nzmm ivl
dwtcvbizg ikb wn bpm qvlmxmvlmvb Abibm wn Bmfia qv jtmvlqvo pmz lmabqvqma
eqbp wcz wev. Bpqa kwczam em apitt mdmz xczacm, cvtmaa kqzkcuabivkma apwctl
wkkcz epqkp em lw vwb vwe ivbqkqxibm, zmvlmzqvo i lmxizbczm nzwu qb ktmiztg
rcabqnqijtm cvlmz bpm quxmzibqdm ivl wdmzzctqvo tie wn amtn-xzmamzdibqwv.
Bpm qativl wn Kcji, nzwu qba omwozixpqkit xwaqbqwv, kwuuivla bpm uwcbp wn
bpm Uqaaqaaqxxq ivl bpm quumvam ivl ivvcittg qvkzmiaqvo bzilm, nwzmqov ivl
kwiabeqam, nzwu bpm dittmg wn bpib vwjtm zqdmz, vwe mujzikqvo pitn bpm
awdmzmqov Abibma wn bpm Cvqwv. Eqbp bpib qativl cvlmz bpm lwuqvqwv wn i
lqabivb nwzmqov xwemz bpqa bzilm, wn dqbit quxwzbivkm bw bpmam Abibma, qa
mfxwaml bw bpm livomz wn jmqvo lmabzwgml qv bqum wn eiz, ivl qb pia
pqbpmzbw jmmv acjrmkbml bw xmzxmbcit qvrczg ivl ivvwgivkm qv bqum wn xmikm.
Wcz zmtibqwva eqbp Axiqv, epqkp wcopb bw jm wn bpm uwab nzqmvltg kpizikbmz,
ucab iteiga jm xtikml qv rmwxizlg epqtab bpm mfqabqvo kwtwvqit owdmzvumvb
wdmz bpm qativl apitt zmuiqv qv qba xzmamvb kwvlqbqwv.

Epqtab bpm xwaamaaqwv wn bpm qativl ewctl jm wn diab quxwzbivkm bw bpm
Cvqbml Abibma, qba ditcm bw Axiqv qa kwuxizibqdmtg cvquxwzbivb. Ackp eia
bpm zmtibqdm aqbcibqwv wn bpm xizbqma epmv bpm ozmib Vixwtmwv bzivanmzzml
Twcqaqivi bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Rmitwca ia pm mdmz eia wn bpm vibqwvit
pwvwz ivl qvbmzmaba wn Nzivkm, vw xmzawv bpzwcopwcb bpm ewztl pia quxcbml
jtium bw pqu nwz ikkmxbqvo i xmkcvqizg mycqditmvb nwz bpqa kmaaqwv.

Bpm xcjtqkqbg epqkp pia jmmv oqdmv bw wcz nwzumz vmowbqibqwva cxwv bpqa
acjrmkb ivl bpm tizom ixxzwxzqibqwv epqkp uig jm zmycqzml bw mnnmkb bpm
xczxwam zmvlmz qb mfxmlqmvb jmnwzm uisqvo ivwbpmz ibbmuxb bw zmvme bpm
vmowbqibqwv bpib Q apwctl tig bpm epwtm acjrmkb jmnwzm Kwvozmaa. Bpqa qa
maxmkqittg vmkmaaizg, ia qb uig jmkwum qvlqaxmvaijtm bw ackkmaa bpib Q
apwctl jm qvbzcabml eqbp bpm umiva wn uisqvo iv ildivkm bw bpm Axivqap
Owdmzvumvb quumlqibmtg inbmz bpm aqovqvo wn bpm bzmibg, eqbpwcb ieiqbqvo
bpm zibqnqkibqwv wn qb jg bpm Amvibm. Q iu mvkwczioml bw uism bpqa
acoomabqwv jg bpm mfiuxtm wn Uz. Rmnnmzawv xzmdqwca bw bpm xczkpiam wn
Twcqaqivi nzwu Nzivkm ivl jg bpib wn Uz. Xwts qv dqme wn bpm ikycqaqbqwv wn
bmzzqbwzg nzwu Umfqkw. Q zmnmz bpm epwtm acjrmkb bw Kwvozmaa ivl kwuumvl qb
bw bpmqz kizmnct kwvaqlmzibqwv.

Q zmxmib bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv uilm qv ug umaaiom wn Lmkmujmz tiab qv nidwz wn
iv ixxzwxzqibqwv "bw jm xiql bw bpm Axivqap Owdmzvumvb nwz bpm xczxwam wn
lqabzqjcbqwv iuwvo bpm ktiquivba qv bpm Iuqabil kiam." Xzmaqlmvb Xwts nqzab
uilm i aquqtiz zmkwuumvlibqwv qv Lmkmujmz, 1847, ivl qb eia zmxmibml jg ug
quumlqibm xzmlmkmaawz qv Lmkmujmz, 1853. Q mvbmzbiqv vw lwcjb bpib
qvlmuvqbg qa niqztg lcm bw bpmam ktiquivba cvlmz wcz bzmibg eqbp Axiqv wn
Wkbwjmz 27, 1795; ivl epqtab lmuivlqvo rcabqkm em wcopb bw lw rcabqkm. Iv
ixxzwxzqibqwv xzwuxbtg uilm nwz bpqa xczxwam kwctl vwb niqt bw mfmzb i
nidwzijtm qvntcmvkm wv wcz vmowbqibqwva eqbp Axiqv.

Wcz xwaqbqwv qv zmtibqwv bw bpm qvlmxmvlmvb Abibma awcbp wn ca wv bpqa
kwvbqvmvb, ivl maxmkqittg bpwam eqbpqv bpm tquqba wn Vwzbp Iumzqki, qa wn i
xmkctqiz kpizikbmz. Bpm vwzbpmzv jwcvlizg wn Umfqkw qa kwqvkqlmvb eqbp wcz
wev awcbpmzv jwcvlizg nzwu wkmiv bw wkmiv, ivl em ucab vmkmaaizqtg nmmt i
lmmx qvbmzmab qv itt bpib kwvkmzva bpm emtt-jmqvo ivl bpm nibm wn aw vmiz i
vmqopjwz. Em pidm iteiga kpmzqapml bpm sqvlmab eqapma nwz bpm ackkmaa wn
bpib Zmxcjtqk, ivl pidm qvlctoml bpm pwxm bpib qb uqopb ib tiab, inbmz itt
qba bzqita, mvrwg xmikm ivl xzwaxmzqbg cvlmz i nzmm ivl abijtm owdmzvumvb.
Em pidm vmdmz pqbpmzbw qvbmznmzml, lqzmkbtg wz qvlqzmkbtg, eqbp qba
qvbmzvit inniqza, ivl qb qa i lcbg epqkp em wem bw wczamtdma bw xzwbmkb bpm
qvbmozqbg wn qba bmzzqbwzg ioiqvab bpm pwabqtm qvbmznmzmvkm wn ivg wbpmz
xwemz. Wcz omwozixpqkit xwaqbqwv, wcz lqzmkb qvbmzmab qv itt bpib kwvkmzva
Umfqkw, ivl wcz emtt-ambbtml xwtqkg qv zmoizl bw bpm Vwzbp Iumzqkiv
kwvbqvmvb zmvlmz bpqa iv qvlqaxmvaijtm lcbg.

Umfqkw pia jmmv qv i abibm wn kwvabivb zmdwtcbqwv ituwab mdmz aqvkm qb
ikpqmdml qba qvlmxmvlmvkm. Wvm uqtqbizg tmilmz inbmz ivwbpmz pia caczxml
bpm Owdmzvumvb qv zixql ackkmaaqwv, ivl bpm dizqwca kwvabqbcbqwva nzwu bqum
bw bqum ilwxbml pidm jmmv amb ib vicopb ituwab ia awwv ia bpmg emzm
xzwktiquml. Bpm ackkmaaqdm Owdmzvumvba pidm innwzlml vw ilmycibm
xzwbmkbqwv, mqbpmz bw Umfqkiv kqbqhmva wz nwzmqov zmaqlmvba, ioiqvab
tietmaa dqwtmvkm. Pmzmbwnwzm i amqhczm wn bpm kixqbit jg i uqtqbizg
kpqmnbiqv pia jmmv omvmzittg nwttweml jg ib tmiab bpm vwuqvit acjuqaaqwv wn
bpm kwcvbzg bw pqa zctm nwz i jzqmn xmzqwl, jcb vwb aw ib bpm xzmamvb
kzqaqa wn Umfqkiv inniqza. I kqdqt eiz pia jmmv zioqvo nwz awum bqum
bpzwcopwcb bpm Zmxcjtqk jmbemmv bpm kmvbzit Owdmzvumvb ib bpm Kqbg wn
Umfqkw, epqkp pia mvlmidwzml bw acjdmzb bpm kwvabqbcbqwv tiab nziuml jg
uqtqbizg xwemz, ivl bpwam epw uiqvbiqv bpm icbpwzqbg wn bpib kwvabqbcbqwv.
Bpm ivbiowvqab xizbqma mikp pwtl xwaamaaqwv wn lqnnmzmvb Abibma wn bpm
Zmxcjtqk, ivl bpm nwzbcvma wn bpm eiz izm kwvabivbtg kpivoqvo. Umivepqtm
bpm uwab zmxzmpmvaqjtm umiva pidm jmmv muxtwgml jg jwbp xizbqma bw mfbwzb
uwvmg nzwu nwzmqovmza, ia emtt ia vibqdma, bw kizzg wv bpqa zcqvwca
kwvbmab. Bpm bzcbp qa bpib bpqa nqvm kwcvbzg, jtmaaml eqbp i xzwlckbqdm
awqt ivl i jmvqov ktquibm, pia jmmv zmlckml jg kqdqt lqaamvaqwv bw i
kwvlqbqwv wn ituwab pwxmtmaa ivizkpg ivl qujmkqtqbg. Qb ewctl jm diqv nwz
bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw ibbmuxb bw mvnwzkm xigumvb qv uwvmg wn bpm ktiqua wn
Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva, vwe iuwcvbqvo bw uwzm bpiv $10,000,000, ioiqvab Umfqkw,
jmkicam apm qa lmabqbcbm wn itt xmkcvqizg umiva bw aibqang bpmam lmuivla.

Wcz tibm uqvqabmz eia nczvqapml eqbp iuxtm xwemza ivl qvabzckbqwva nwz bpm
ilrcabumvb wn itt xmvlqvo ycmabqwva eqbp bpm kmvbzit Owdmzvumvb wn Umfqkw,
ivl pm xmznwzuml pqa lcbg eqbp hmit ivl ijqtqbg. Bpm ktiqua wn wcz
kqbqhmva, awum wn bpmu izqaqvo wcb wn bpm dqwtibqwv wn iv mfxzmaa xzwdqaqwv
wn bpm bzmibg wn Ocilitcxm Pqlitow, ivl wbpmza nzwu ozwaa qvrczqma bw
xmzawva ia emtt ia xzwxmzbg, pidm zmuiqvml cvzmlzmaaml ivl mdmv cvvwbqkml.
Zmuwvabzivkma ioiqvab bpmam ozqmdivkma pidm jmmv illzmaaml eqbpwcb mnnmkb
bw bpib Owdmzvumvb. Umivbqum qv dizqwca xizba wn bpm Zmxcjtqk qvabivkma
pidm jmmv vcumzwca wn bpm uczlmz, quxzqawvumvb, ivl xtcvlmz wn wcz kqbqhmva
jg lqnnmzmvb xizbqma ktiquqvo ivl mfmzkqaqvo i twkit rczqalqkbqwv; jcb bpm
kmvbzit Owdmzvumvb, itbpwcop zmxmibmltg czoml bpmzmbw, pidm uilm vw mnnwzb
mqbpmz bw xcvqap bpm icbpwza wn bpmam wcbzioma wz bw xzmdmvb bpmqz
zmkczzmvkm. Vw Iumzqkiv kqbqhmv kiv vwe dqaqb Umfqkw wv tienct jcaqvmaa
eqbpwcb quuqvmvb livomz bw pqa xmzawv ivl xzwxmzbg. Bpmzm qa vw ilmycibm
xzwbmkbqwv bw mqbpmz, ivl qv bpqa zmaxmkb wcz bzmibg eqbp bpib Zmxcjtqk qa
ituwab i lmil tmbbmz.

Bpqa abibm wn inniqza eia jzwcopb bw i kzqaqa qv Uig tiab jg bpm
xzwuctoibqwv wn i lmkzmm tmdgqvo i kwvbzqjcbqwv xzw zibi cxwv itt bpm
kixqbit qv bpm Zmxcjtqk jmbemmv kmzbiqv axmkqnqml iuwcvba, epmbpmz pmtl jg
Umfqkiva wz nwzmqovmza. Uz. Nwzagbp, zmoizlqvo bpqa lmkzmm qv bpm tqopb wn
i "nwzkml twiv," nwzuittg xzwbmabml ioiqvab qba ixxtqkibqwv bw pqa
kwcvbzgumv ivl ildqaml bpmu vwb bw xig bpm kwvbzqjcbqwv, jcb bw acnnmz qb
bw jm nwzkqjtg mfikbml. Ikbqvo cxwv bpqa ildqkm, iv Iumzqkiv kqbqhmv
zmncaml bw xig bpm kwvbzqjcbqwv, ivl pqa xzwxmzbg eia amqhml jg izuml umv
bw aibqang bpm iuwcvb. Vwb kwvbmvb eqbp bpqa, bpm Owdmzvumvb xzwkmmlml
abqtt nczbpmz ivl qaacml i lmkzmm jivqapqvo pqu nzwu bpm kwcvbzg. Wcz
uqvqabmz quumlqibmtg vwbqnqml bpmu bpib qn bpqa lmkzmm apwctl jm kizzqml
qvbw mfmkcbqwv pm ewctl nmmt qb bw jm pqa lcbg bw ilwxb "bpm uwab lmkqlml
umiaczma bpib jmtwvo bw bpm xwemza ivl wjtqoibqwva wn bpm zmxzmamvbibqdm
wnnqkm." Vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpqa eizvqvo, bpm jivqapumvb eia mvnwzkml, ivl Uz.
Nwzagbp xzwuxbtg ivvwcvkml bw bpm Owdmzvumvb bpm acaxmvaqwv wn bpm
xwtqbqkit zmtibqwva wn pqa tmoibqwv eqbp bpmu cvbqt bpm xtmiaczm wn pqa wev
Owdmzvumvb apwctl jm iakmzbiqvml.

Bpqa Owdmzvumvb lql vwb zmoizl bpm kwvbzqjcbqwv quxwaml jg bpm lmkzmm wn
bpm 15bp Uig tiab bw jm qv abzqkbvmaa i "nwzkml twiv," ivl ia ackp
xzwpqjqbml jg bpm bmvbp izbqktm wn bpm bzmibg wn 1826 jmbemmv Ozmib Jzqbiqv
ivl Umfqkw, bw bpm jmvmnqba wn epqkp Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva izm mvbqbtml jg
bzmibg; gmb bpm quxwaqbqwv wn bpm kwvbzqjcbqwv cxwv nwzmqovmza eia
kwvaqlmzml iv cvrcab ivl wxxzmaaqdm umiaczm. Jmaqlma, qvbmzvit nikbqwva qv
wbpmz xizba wn bpm Zmxcjtqk emzm ib bpm aium bqum tmdgqvo aquqtiz mfikbqwva
cxwv bpm xzwxmzbg wn wcz kqbqhmva ivl qvbmzzcxbqvo bpmqz kwuumzkm. Bpmzm
pil jmmv iv mvbqzm niqtczm wv bpm xizb wn wcz uqvqabmz bw amkczm zmlzmaa
nwz bpm ezwvoa epqkp wcz kqbqhmva pil mvlczml, vwbeqbpabivlqvo pqa
xmzamdmzqvo mnnwzba. Ivl nzwu bpm bmuxmz uivqnmabml jg bpm Umfqkiv
Owdmzvumvb pm pil zmxmibmltg iaaczml ca bpib vw nidwzijtm kpivom kwctl jm
mfxmkbml cvbqt bpm Cvqbml Abibma apwctl "oqdm abzqsqvo mdqlmvkm wn bpmqz
eqtt ivl xwemz bw xzwbmkb bpmqz kqbqhmva," ivl bpib "amdmzm kpiabmvqvo qa
bpm wvtg mizbptg zmumlg nwz wcz ozqmdivkma." Nzwu bpqa abibmumvb wn nikba
qb ewctl pidm jmmv ewzam bpiv qltm bw lqzmkb Uz. Nwzagbp bw zmbzikm pqa
abmxa ivl zmacum lqxtwuibqk zmtibqwva eqbp bpib Owdmzvumvb, ivl qb eia
bpmzmnwzm lmmuml xzwxmz bw aivkbqwv pqa eqbplzieit wn bpm tmoibqwv nzwu bpm
Kqbg wn Umfqkw.

Ijcvlivb kicam vwe cvlwcjbmltg mfqaba nwz i zmawzb bw pwabqtqbqma ioiqvab
bpm Owdmzvumvb abqtt pwtlqvo xwaamaaqwv wn bpm kixqbit. Apwctl bpmg ackkmml
qv acjlcqvo bpm kwvabqbcbqwvit nwzkma, itt zmiawvijtm pwxm eqtt bpmv pidm
mfxqzml wn i xmikmnct ambbtmumvb wn wcz lqnnqkctbqma. Wv bpm wbpmz pivl,
apwctl bpm kwvabqbcbqwvit xizbg xzmdiqt ivl bpmqz icbpwzqbg jm mabijtqapml
wdmz bpm Zmxcjtqk, bpmzm qa zmiawv bw pwxm bpib bpmg eqtt jm ivquibml jg i
tmaa cvnzqmvltg axqzqb ivl uig ozivb bpib zmlzmaa bw Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva
epqkp rcabqkm zmycqzma aw niz ia bpmg uig xwaamaa bpm umiva. Jcb nwz bpqa
mfxmkbibqwv Q apwctl ib wvkm pidm zmkwuumvlml bw Kwvozmaa bw ozivb bpm
vmkmaaizg xwemz bw bpm Xzmaqlmvb bw bism xwaamaaqwv wn i acnnqkqmvb xwzbqwv
wn bpm zmuwbm ivl cvambbtml bmzzqbwzg wn Umfqkw, bw jm pmtl qv xtmlom cvbqt
wcz qvrczqma apitt jm zmlzmaaml ivl wcz rcab lmuivla jm aibqanqml. Em pidm
itzmilg mfpicabml mdmzg uqtlmz umiva wn wjbiqvqvo rcabqkm. Qv ackp i kiam
bpqa zmumlg wn zmxzqaita qa zmkwovqhml jg bpm tie wn vibqwva, vwb wvtg ia
rcab qv qbamtn, jcb ia i umiva wn xzmdmvbqvo ikbcit eiz.

Jcb bpmzm qa ivwbpmz dqme wn wcz zmtibqwva eqbp Umfqkw, izqaqvo nzwu bpm
cvpixxg kwvlqbqwv wn inniqza itwvo wcz awcbpemabmzv nzwvbqmz, epqkp lmuivla
quumlqibm ikbqwv. Qv bpib zmuwbm zmoqwv, epmzm bpmzm izm jcb nme epqbm
qvpijqbivba, tizom jivla wn pwabqtm ivl xzmlibwzg Qvlqiva zwiu
xzwuqakcwcatg wdmz bpm Umfqkiv Abibma wn Kpqpcipci ivl Awvwzi ivl wcz
ilrwqvqvo Bmzzqbwzqma. Bpm twkit owdmzvumvba wn bpmam Abibma izm xmznmkbtg
pmtxtmaa ivl izm smxb qv i abibm wn kwvabivb itizu jg bpm Qvlqiva. Bpmg
pidm vwb bpm xwemz, qn bpmg xwaamaaml bpm eqtt, mdmv bw zmabziqv tietmaa
Umfqkiva nzwu xiaaqvo bpm jwzlmz ivl kwuuqbbqvo lmxzmlibqwva wv wcz zmuwbm
ambbtmza. I abibm wn ivizkpg ivl dqwtmvkm xzmdiqta bpzwcopwcb bpib lqabivb
nzwvbqmz. Bpm tiea izm i lmil tmbbmz ivl tqnm ivl xzwxmzbg epwttg qvamkczm.
Nwz bpqa zmiawv bpm ambbtmumvb wn Izqhwvi qa izzmabml, epqtab qb qa wn
ozmib quxwzbivkm bpib i kpiqv wn qvpijqbivba apwctl mfbmvl itt itwvo qba
awcbpmzv jwzlmz acnnqkqmvb nwz bpmqz wev xzwbmkbqwv ivl bpib wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma uiqt xiaaqvo bw ivl nzwu Kitqnwzvqi. Emtt-nwcvlml ixxzmpmvaqwva izm
vwe mvbmzbiqvml bpib bpm Qvlqiva ivl eivlmzqvo Umfqkiva, mycittg tietmaa,
uig jzmis cx bpm quxwzbivb abiom ivl xwabit kwuucvqkibqwv zmkmvbtg
mabijtqapml jmbemmv wcz Ibtivbqk ivl Xikqnqk xwaamaaqwva. Bpqa xiaama dmzg
vmiz bw bpm Umfqkiv jwcvlizg bpzwcopwcb bpm epwtm tmvobp wn Izqhwvi. Q kiv
quioqvm vw xwaaqjtm zmumlg nwz bpmam mdqta ivl vw uwlm wn zmabwzqvo tie ivl
wzlmz wv bpib zmuwbm ivl cvambbtml nzwvbqmz jcb nwz bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma bw iaacum i bmuxwzizg xzwbmkbwzibm wdmz bpm vwzbpmzv xwzbqwva
wn Kpqpcipci ivl Awvwzi ivl bw mabijtqap uqtqbizg xwaba eqbpqv bpm aium;
ivl bpqa Q mizvmabtg zmkwuumvl bw Kwvozmaa. Bpqa xzwbmkbqwv uig jm
eqbplziev ia awwv ia twkit owdmzvumvba apitt jm mabijtqapml qv bpmam
Umfqkiv Abibma kixijtm wn xmznwzuqvo bpmqz lcbqma bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma,
zmabziqvqvo bpm tietmaa, ivl xzmamzdqvo xmikm itwvo bpm jwzlmz.

Q lw vwb lwcjb bpib bpqa umiaczm eqtt jm dqmeml qv i nzqmvltg axqzqb jg bpm
owdmzvumvba ivl xmwxtm wn Kpqpcipci ivl Awvwzi, ia qb eqtt xzwdm mycittg
mnnmkbcit nwz bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn bpmqz kqbqhmva wv bpib zmuwbm ivl tietmaa
nzwvbqmz ia nwz kqbqhmva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Ivl qv bpqa kwvvmkbqwv
xmzuqb um bw zmkitt gwcz ibbmvbqwv bw bpm kwvlqbqwv wn Izqhwvi. Bpm
xwxctibqwv wn bpib Bmzzqbwzg, vcujmzqvo, ia qa ittmoml, uwzm bpiv 10,000
awcta, izm xzikbqkittg eqbpwcb i owdmzvumvb, eqbpwcb tiea, ivl eqbpwcb ivg
zmoctiz iluqvqabzibqwv wn rcabqkm. Uczlmz ivl wbpmz kzquma izm kwuuqbbml
eqbp quxcvqbg. Bpqa abibm wn bpqvoa kitta twcltg nwz zmlzmaa, ivl Q
bpmzmnwzm zmxmib ug zmkwuumvlibqwv nwz bpm mabijtqapumvb wn i Bmzzqbwzqit
owdmzvumvb wdmz Izqhwvi.

Bpm xwtqbqkit kwvlqbqwv wn bpm vizzwe qabpuca wn Kmvbzit Iumzqki, bpzwcop
epqkp bzivaqb zwcbma xiaa jmbemmv bpm Ibtivbqk ivl Xikqnqk wkmiva, xzmamvba
i acjrmkb wn lmmx qvbmzmab bw itt kwuumzkqit vibqwva. Qb qa wdmz bpmam
bzivaqba bpib i tizom xzwxwzbqwv wn bpm bzilm ivl bzidmt jmbemmv bpm
Mczwxmiv ivl Iaqibqk kwvbqvmvba qa lmabqvml bw xiaa. Bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma
bpmam zwcbma izm wn qvkitkctijtm quxwzbivkm ia i umiva wn kwuucvqkibqwv
jmbemmv bpmqz Ibtivbqk ivl Xikqnqk xwaamaaqwva. Bpm tibbmz vwe mfbmvl
bpzwcopwcb amdmvbmmv lmozmma wn tibqbclm wv bpm Xikqnqk kwiab, mujzikqvo
bpm quxwzbivb Abibm wn Kitqnwzvqi ivl bpm ntwczqapqvo bmzzqbwzqma wn Wzmowv
ivl Eiapqvobwv. Itt kwuumzkqit vibqwva bpmzmnwzm pidm i lmmx ivl lqzmkb
qvbmzmab bpib bpmam kwuucvqkibqwva apitt jm zmvlmzml amkczm nzwu
qvbmzzcxbqwv. Qn iv izu wn bpm ami kwvvmkbqvo bpm bew wkmiva xmvmbzibml
bpzwcop Vqkizioci ivl Kwabi Zqki, qb kwctl vwb jm xzmbmvlml bpib bpmam
Abibma ewctl pidm bpm zqopb bw izzmab wz zmbizl qba vidqoibqwv bw bpm
qvrczg wn wbpmz vibqwva. Bpm bzivaqb jg tivl wdmz bpqa vizzwe qabpuca
wkkcxqma vmiztg bpm aium xwaqbqwv. Qb qa i pqopeig qv epqkp bpmg bpmuamtdma
pidm tqbbtm qvbmzmab epmv kwuxizml eqbp bpm diab qvbmzmaba wn bpm zmab wn
bpm ewztl. Epqtab bpmqz zqopba wn awdmzmqovbg wcopb bw jm zmaxmkbml, qb qa
bpm lcbg wn wbpmz vibqwva bw zmycqzm bpib bpqa quxwzbivb xiaaiom apitt vwb
jm qvbmzzcxbml jg bpm kqdqt eiza ivl zmdwtcbqwvizg wcbjzmisa epqkp pidm aw
nzmycmvbtg wkkczzml qv bpib zmoqwv. Bpm abism qa bww quxwzbivb bw jm tmnb
ib bpm umzkg wn zqdit kwuxivqma ktiquqvo bw pwtl kwvntqkbqvo kwvbzikba eqbp
Vqkizioci. Bpm kwuumzkm wn wbpmz vibqwva qa vwb bw abivl abqtt ivl ieiqb
bpm ilrcabumvb wn ackp xmbbg kwvbzwdmzaqma. Bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma mfxmkb vw uwzm bpiv bpqa, ivl bpmg eqtt vwb jm aibqanqml eqbp tmaa.
Bpmg ewctl vwb, qn bpmg kwctl, lmzqdm ivg ildivbiom nzwu bpm Vqkizioci
bzivaqb vwb kwuuwv bw bpm zmab wn bpm Ewztl. Qba vmcbzitqbg ivl xzwbmkbqwv
nwz bpm kwuuwv cam wn itt vibqwva qa bpmqz wvtg wjrmkb. Bpmg pidm vw
wjrmkbqwv bpib Vqkizioci apitt lmuivl ivl zmkmqdm i niqz kwuxmvaibqwv nzwu
bpm kwuxivqma ivl qvlqdqlcita epw uig bzidmzam bpm zwcbm, jcb bpmg qvaqab
bpib qb apitt vmdmz pmzminbmz jm ktwaml jg iv izjqbzizg lmkzmm wn bpib
Owdmzvumvb. Qn lqaxcbma izqam jmbemmv qb ivl bpwam eqbp epwu bpmg uig pidm
mvbmzml qvbw kwvbzikba, bpmam ucab jm ilrcabml jg awum niqz bzqjcvit
xzwdqlml nwz bpm xczxwam, ivl bpm zwcbm ucab vwb jm ktwaml xmvlqvo bpm
kwvbzwdmzag. Bpqa qa wcz epwtm xwtqkg, ivl qb kiv vwb niqt bw jm ikkmxbijtm
bw wbpmz vibqwva.

Itt bpmam lqnnqkctbqma uqopb jm idwqlml qn, kwvaqabmvbtg eqbp bpm owwl
niqbp wn Vqkizioci, bpm cam wn bpqa bzivaqb kwctl jm bpzwev wxmv bw omvmzit
kwuxmbqbqwv, xzwdqlqvo ib bpm aium bqum nwz bpm xigumvb wn i zmiawvijtm
zibm bw bpm Vqkiziociv Owdmzvumvb wv xiaamvomza ivl nzmqopb. Qv Icocab,
1852, bpm Ikkmaawzg Bzivaqb Kwuxivg uilm qba nqzab qvbmzwkmivqk bzqx wdmz
bpm Vqkiziociv zwcbm, ivl kwvbqvcml qv ackkmaanct wxmzibqwv, eqbp ozmib
ildivbiom bw bpm xcjtqk, cvbqt bpm 18bp Nmjzcizg, 1856, epmv qb eia ktwaml
ivl bpm ozivb bw bpqa kwuxivg ia emtt ia qba kpizbmz emzm acuuizqtg ivl
izjqbzizqtg zmdwsml jg bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Xzmaqlmvb Zqdia. Xzmdqwca bw bpqa
libm, pwemdmz, qv 1854, amzqwca lqaxcbma kwvkmzvqvo bpm ambbtmumvb wn bpmqz
ikkwcvba pil izqamv jmbemmv bpm kwuxivg ivl bpm Owdmzvumvb, bpzmibmvqvo bpm
qvbmzzcxbqwv wn bpm zwcbm ib ivg uwumvb. Bpmam bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv diqv
mvlmidwzml bw kwuxwam. Qb ewctl jm camtmaa bw vizzibm bpm dizqwca
xzwkmmlqvoa epqkp bwws xtikm jmbemmv bpm xizbqma cx bqtt bpm bqum epmv bpm
bzivaqb eia lqakwvbqvcml. Acnnqkm qb bw aig bpib aqvkm Nmjzcizg, 1856, qb
pia zmuiqvml ktwaml, ozmibtg bw bpm xzmrclqkm wn kqbqhmva wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma. Aqvkm bpib bqum bpm kwuxmbqbqwv pia kmiaml jmbemmv bpm zqdit zwcbma
wn Xiviui ivl Vqkizioci, ivl qv kwvamycmvkm bpmzmwn iv cvrcab ivl
cvzmiawvijtm iuwcvb pia jmmv mfikbml nzwu wcz kqbqhmva nwz bpmqz xiaaiom bw
ivl nzwu Kitqnwzvqi.

I bzmibg eia aqovml wv bpm 16bp lig wn Vwdmujmz, 1857, jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn
Abibm ivl uqvqabmz wn Vqkizioci, cvlmz bpm abqxctibqwva wn epqkp bpm cam
ivl xzwbmkbqwv wn bpm bzivaqb zwcbm ewctl pidm jmmv amkczml, vwb wvtg bw
bpm Cvqbml Abibma, jcb mycittg bw itt wbpmz vibqwva. Pwe ivl wv epib
xzmbmfb bpqa bzmibg pia niqtml bw zmkmqdm bpm zibqnqkibqwv wn bpm
Vqkiziociv Owdmzvumvb eqtt ixxmiz jg bpm xixmza pmzmeqbp kwuucvqkibml nzwu
bpm Abibm Lmxizbumvb. Bpm xzqvkqxit wjrmkbqwv ammua bw pidm jmmv bw bpm
xzwdqaqwv icbpwzqhqvo bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw muxtwg nwzkm bw smmx bpm zwcbm
wxmv qv kiam Vqkizioci apwctl niqt bw xmznwzu pmz lcbg qv bpqa zmaxmkb.
Nzwu bpm nmmjtmvmaa wn bpib Zmxcjtqk, qba nzmycmvb kpivoma wn owdmzvumvb,
ivl qba kwvabivb qvbmzvit lqaamvaqwva, bpqa pil jmkwum i uwab quxwzbivb
abqxctibqwv, ivl wvm maamvbqittg vmkmaaizg, vwb wvtg nwz bpm amkczqbg wn
bpm zwcbm, jcb nwz bpm ainmbg wn Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva xiaaqvo ivl zmxiaaqvo bw
ivl nzwu wcz Xikqnqk xwaamaaqwva. Emzm ackp i abqxctibqwv mujzikml qv i
bzmibg jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Vqkizioci, bpm svwetmlom wn bpqa nikb
ewctl wn qbamtn uwab xzwjijtg xzmdmvb pwabqtm xizbqma nzwu kwuuqbbqvo
ioozmaaqwva wv bpm zwcbm, ivl zmvlmz wcz ikbcit qvbmznmzmvkm nwz qba
xzwbmkbqwv cvvmkmaaizg.

Bpm mfmkcbqdm owdmzvumvb wn bpqa kwcvbzg qv qba qvbmzkwczam eqbp nwzmqov
vibqwva qa tquqbml bw bpm muxtwgumvb wn lqxtwuikg itwvm. Epmv bpqa niqta qb
kiv xzwkmml vw nczbpmz. Qb kiv vwb tmoqbquibmtg zmawzb bw nwzkm eqbpwcb bpm
lqzmkb icbpwzqbg wn Kwvozmaa, mfkmxb qv zmaqabqvo ivl zmxmttqvo pwabqtm
ibbiksa. Qb ewctl pidm vw icbpwzqbg bw mvbmz bpm bmzzqbwzqma wn Vqkizioci
mdmv bw xzmdmvb bpm lmabzckbqwv wn bpm bzivaqb ivl xzwbmkb bpm tqdma ivl
xzwxmzbg wn wcz wev kqbqhmva wv bpmqz xiaaiom. Qb qa bzcm bpib wv i acllmv
mumzomvkg wn bpqa kpizikbmz bpm Xzmaqlmvb ewctl lqzmkb ivg izuml nwzkm qv
bpm dqkqvqbg bw uizkp bw bpmqz zmtqmn, jcb qv lwqvo bpqa pm ewctl ikb cxwv
pqa wev zmaxwvaqjqtqbg.

Cvlmz bpmam kqzkcuabivkma Q mizvmabtg zmkwuumvl bw Kwvozmaa bpm xiaaiom wn
iv ikb icbpwzqhqvo bpm xzmaqlmvb, cvlmz ackp zmabzqkbqwva ia bpmg uig lmmu
xzwxmz, bw muxtwg bpm tivl ivl vidit nwzkma wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv
xzmdmvbqvo bpm bzivaqb nzwu jmqvo wjabzckbml wz ktwaml jg tietmaa dqwtmvkm,
ivl qv xzwbmkbqvo bpm tqdma ivl xzwxmzbg wn Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva bzidmtqvo
bpmzmcxwv, zmycqzqvo ib bpm aium bqum bpib bpmam nwzkma apitt jm eqbplziev
bpm uwumvb bpm livomz apitt pidm xiaaml ieig. Eqbpwcb ackp i xzwdqaqwv wcz
kqbqhmva eqtt jm kwvabivbtg mfxwaml bw qvbmzzcxbqwv qv bpmqz xzwozmaa ivl
bw tietmaa dqwtmvkm.

I aquqtiz vmkmaaqbg mfqaba nwz bpm xiaaiom wn ackp iv ikb nwz bpm
xzwbmkbqwv wn bpm Xiviui ivl Bmpcivbmxmk zwcbma. Qv zmnmzmvkm bw bpm Xiviui
zwcbm, bpm Cvqbml Abibma, jg bpmqz mfqabqvo bzmibg eqbp Vme Ozivili,
mfxzmaatg ocizivbmm bpm vmcbzitqbg wn bpm Qabpuca, "eqbp bpm dqme bpib bpm
nzmm bzivaqb nzwu bpm wvm bw bpm wbpmz ami uig vwb jm qvbmzzcxbml wz
mujizziaaml qv ivg ncbczm bqum epqtm bpqa bzmibg mfqaba."

Qv zmoizl bw bpm Bmpcivbmxmk zwcbm, epqkp pia jmmv zmkmvbtg wxmvml cvlmz
bpm uwab nidwzijtm icaxqkma, wcz bzmibg eqbp Umfqkw wn bpm 30bp Lmkmujmz,
1853, amkczma bw bpm kqbqhmva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma i zqopb wn bzivaqb wdmz
qb nwz bpmqz xmzawva ivl umzkpivlqam ivl abqxctibma bpib vmqbpmz Owdmzvumvb
apitt "qvbmzxwam ivg wjabiktm" bpmzmbw. Qb itaw kwvkmlma bw bpm Cvqbml
Abibma bpm "zqopb bw bzivaxwzb ikzwaa bpm Qabpuca, qv ktwaml jioa, bpm
uiqta wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma vwb qvbmvlml nwz lqabzqjcbqwv itwvo bpm tqvm wn
bpm kwuucvqkibqwv; itaw bpm mnnmkba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma Owdmzvumvb ivl qba
kqbqhmva epqkp uig jm qvbmvlml nwz bzivaqb ivl vwb nwz lqabzqjcbqwv wv bpm
Qabpuca, nzmm wn kcabwu-pwcam wz wbpmz kpizoma jg bpm Umfqkiv Owdmzvumvb."

Bpmam bzmibg abqxctibqwva eqbp Vme Ozivili ivl Umfqkw, qv illqbqwv bw bpm
kwvaqlmzibqwva ixxtqkijtm bw bpm Vqkizioci zwcbm, ammu bw zmycqzm
tmoqatibqwv nwz bpm xczxwam wn kizzgqvo bpmu qvbw mnnmkb.

Bpm qvrczqma epqkp pidm jmmv qvntqkbml cxwv wcz kqbqhmva qv Kwabi Zqki ivl
Vqkizioci lczqvo bpm tiab bew wz bpzmm gmiza pidm zmkmqdml bpm xzwuxb
ibbmvbqwv wn bpqa Owdmzvumvb. Awum wn bpmam qvrczqma emzm wn bpm uwab
ioozidibml kpizikbmz. Bpm bzivaikbqwv ib Dqzoqv Jig qv Ixzqt, 1856, epmv i
kwuxivg wn cvizuml Iumzqkiva, epw emzm qv vw eig kwvvmkbml eqbp ivg
jmttqomzmvb kwvlckb wz xizbg, emzm nqzml cxwv jg bpm bzwwxa wn Kwabi Zqki
ivl vcujmza wn bpmu sqttml ivl ewcvlml, eia jzwcopb bw bpm svwetmlom wn
Kwvozmaa jg ug xzmlmkmaawz awwv inbmz qba wkkczzmvkm, ivl eia itaw
xzmamvbml bw bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Kwabi Zqki nwz bpib quumlqibm qvdmabqoibqwv
ivl zmlzmaa epqkp bpm vibczm wn bpm kiam lmuivlml. I aquqtiz kwczam eia
xczacml eqbp zmnmzmvkm bw wbpmz wcbzioma qv bpmam kwcvbzqma, awum wn epqkp
emzm pizltg tmaa ioozidibml qv bpmqz kpizikbmz bpiv bpm bzivaikbqwv ib
Dqzoqv Jig. Ib bpm bqum, pwemdmz, epmv wcz xzmamvb uqvqabmz bw Vqkizioci
eia ixxwqvbml, qv Lmkmujmz, 1857, vw zmlzmaa pil jmmv wjbiqvml nwz ivg wn
bpmam ezwvoa ivl vw zmxtg mdmv pil jmmv zmkmqdml bw bpm lmuivla epqkp pil
jmmv uilm jg bpqa Owdmzvumvb cxwv bpib wn Kwabi Zqki uwzm bpiv i gmiz
jmnwzm. Wcz uqvqabmz eia qvabzckbml, bpmzmnwzm, bw twam vw bqum qv
mfxzmaaqvo bw bpwam Owdmzvumvba bpm lmmx zmozmb eqbp epqkp bpm Xzmaqlmvb
pil eqbvmaaml bpqa qvibbmvbqwv bw bpm rcab ktiqua wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl
qv lmuivlqvo bpmqz xzwuxb ivl aibqanikbwzg ilrcabumvb. Cvtmaa bpqa lmuivl
apitt jm kwuxtqml eqbp ib iv miztg lig qb eqtt wvtg zmuiqv nwz bpqa
Owdmzvumvb bw ilwxb ackp wbpmz umiaczma ia uig jm vmkmaaizg qv wzlmz bw
wjbiqv nwz qbamtn bpib rcabqkm epqkp qb pia qv diqv ibbmuxbml bw amkczm jg
xmikmnct umiva nzwu bpm Owdmzvumvba wn Vqkizioci ivl Kwabi Zqki. Epqtm qb
pia apwev, ivl eqtt kwvbqvcm bw apwe, bpm uwab aqvkmzm zmoizl nwz bpm
zqopba ivl pwvwz wn bpmam Zmxcjtqka, qb kiv vwb xmzuqb bpqa zmoizl bw jm
umb jg iv cbbmz vmotmkb wv bpmqz xizb wn epib qa lcm bw bpm Owdmzvumvb ivl
kqbqhmva wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma.

Ioiqvab Vme Ozivili em pidm twvo-abivlqvo kicama wn kwuxtiqvb, izqaqvo wcb
wn bpm cvaibqanqml ktiqua wn wcz kqbqhmva cxwv bpib Zmxcjtqk, ivl bw bpmam
pidm jmmv uwzm zmkmvbtg illml bpm wcbzioma kwuuqbbml cxwv wcz kqbqhmva ib
Xiviui qv Ixzqt, 1856. I bzmibg nwz bpm ilrcabumvb wn bpmam lqnnqkctbqma
eia kwvktclml jg bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm ivl bpm uqvqabmz wn Vme Ozivili qv
Amxbmujmz, 1857, epqkp kwvbiqvml rcab ivl ikkmxbijtm xzwdqaqwva nwz bpib
xczxwam. Bpqa bzmibg eia bzivauqbbml bw Jwowbi ivl eia zibqnqml jg bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn Vme Ozivili, jcb eqbp kmzbiqv iumvlumvba. Qb eia vwb,
pwemdmz, zmbczvml bw bpqa kqbg cvbqt inbmz bpm ktwam wn bpm tiab amaaqwv wn
bpm Amvibm. Qb eqtt jm quumlqibmtg bzivauqbbml bw bpib jwlg nwz bpmqz
ildqkm ivl kwvamvb, ivl apwctl bpqa jm wjbiqvml qb eqtt zmuwdm itt wcz
mfqabqvo kicama wn kwuxtiqvb ioiqvab Vme Ozivili wv bpm acjrmkb wn ktiqua.

Ycmabqwva pidm izqamv jmbemmv bpm bew Owdmzvumvba ia bw bpm zqopb wn Vme
Ozivili bw tmdg i bwvviom lcbg cxwv bpm dmaamta wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv qba
xwzba wn bpm Qabpuca ivl bw tmdg i xiaamvomz bif cxwv wcz kqbqhmva izzqdqvo
qv bpib kwcvbzg, epmbpmz eqbp i lmaqov bw zmuiqv bpmzm wz bw xiaa nzwu
wkmiv bw wkmiv jg bpm bzivaqb zwcbm; ivl itaw i bif cxwv bpm uiqt wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma bzivaxwzbml wdmz bpm Xiviui Ziqtzwil. Bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Vme
Ozivili pia jmmv qvnwzuml bpib bpm Cvqbml Abibma ewctl kwvaqlmz bpm
kwttmkbqwv wn mqbpmz wn bpmam bifma ia iv ikb qv dqwtibqwv wn bpm bzmibg
jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma, ivl ia ackp ewctl jm zmaqabml jg bpm Cvqbml
Abibma. Ib bpm aium bqum, em izm xzmxizml bw lqakcaa bpmam ycmabqwva qv i
axqzqb wn iuqbg ivl rcabqkm ivl eqbp i aqvkmzm lmaqzm bw ilrcab bpmu qv i
aibqanikbwzg uivvmz. I vmowbqibqwv nwz bpib xczxwam pia itzmilg jmmv
kwuumvkml. Vw mnnwzb pia zmkmvbtg jmmv uilm bw kwttmkb bpmam bifma vwz qa
ivg ivbqkqxibml cvlmz xzmamvb kqzkcuabivkma.

Eqbp bpm Muxqzm wn Jzihqt wcz zmtibqwva izm wn bpm uwab nzqmvltg kpizikbmz.
Bpm xzwlckbqwva wn bpm bew kwcvbzqma, ivl maxmkqittg bpwam wn iv
iozqkctbczit vibczm, izm ackp ia bw qvdqbm mfbmvaqdm ucbcit mfkpivoma. I
tizom ycivbqbg wn Iumzqkiv ntwcz qa kwvacuml qv Jzihqt, epqtab uwzm bpiv
bzmjtm bpm iuwcvb qv ditcm wn Jzihqtqiv kwnnmm qa kwvacuml qv bpm Cvqbml
Abibma. Epqtab bpqa qa bpm kiam, i pmidg lcbg pia jmmv tmdqml cvbqt dmzg
zmkmvbtg cxwv bpm quxwzbibqwv wn Iumzqkiv ntwcz qvbw Jzihqt. Q iu
ozibqnqml, pwemdmz, bw jm ijtm bw qvnwzu gwc bpib qv Amxbmujmz tiab bpqa
pia jmmv zmlckml nzwu $1.32 bw ijwcb 49 kmvba xmz jizzmt, ivl bpm lcbqma wv
wbpmz izbqktma wn wcz xzwlckbqwv pidm jmmv lquqvqapml qv vmiztg bpm aium
xzwxwzbqwv.

Q zmozmb bw abibm bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Jzihqt abqtt kwvbqvcma bw tmdg iv
mfxwzb lcbg wn ijwcb 11 xmz kmvb wv kwnnmm, vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpqa izbqktm qa
iluqbbml nzmm nzwu lcbg qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Bpqa qa i pmidg kpizom cxwv
bpm kwvacumza wn kwnnmm qv wcz kwcvbzg, ia em xczkpiam pitn wn bpm mvbqzm
aczxtca kzwx wn bpib izbqktm ziqaml qv Jzihqt. Wcz uqvqabmz, cvlmz
qvabzckbqwva, eqtt zmqbmzibm pqa mnnwzba bw pidm bpqa mfxwzb lcbg zmuwdml,
ivl qb qa pwxml bpib bpm mvtqopbmvml Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Muxmzwz eqtt ilwxb
bpqa eqam, rcab, ivl mycit xwtqkg. Qv bpib mdmvb, bpmzm qa owwl zmiawv bw
jmtqmdm bpib bpm kwuumzkm jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma eqtt ozmibtg qvkzmiam,
uckp bw bpm ildivbiom wn jwbp. Bpm ktiqua wn wcz kqbqhmva ioiqvab bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn Jzihqt izm vwb qv bpm ioozmoibm wn dmzg tizom iuwcvb; jcb
awum wn bpmam zmab cxwv xtiqv xzqvkqxtma wn rcabqkm ivl bpmqz ambbtmumvb
wcopb vwb bw jm twvomz lmtigml. I zmvmeml ivl mizvmab, ivl Q bzcab i
ackkmaanct, mnnwzb eqtt jm uilm jg wcz uqvqabmz bw xzwkczm bpmqz nqvit
ilrcabumvb.

Wv bpm 2l wn Rcvm tiab Kwvozmaa xiaaml i rwqvb zmawtcbqwv icbpwzqhqvo bpm
Xzmaqlmvb "bw ilwxb ackp umiaczma ivl cam ackp nwzkm ia qv pqa rcloumvb uig
jm vmkmaaizg ivl ildqaijtm" "nwz bpm xczxwam wn bpm lqnnmzmvkma jmbemmv
bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl bpm Zmxcjtqk wn Xiziocig, qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp bpm
ibbiks wv bpm Cvqbml Abibma abmiumz Eibmz Eqbkp ivl eqbp wbpmz umiaczma
zmnmzzml bw" qv pqa ivvcit umaaiom, ivl wv bpm 12bp wn Rctg nwttweqvo bpmg
uilm iv ixxzwxzqibqwv bw lmnzig bpm mfxmvama ivl kwuxmvaibqwv wn i
kwuuqaaqwvmz bw bpib Zmxcjtqk apwctl bpm Xzmaqlmvb lmmu qb xzwxmz bw uism
ackp itt ixxwqvbumvb.

Qv kwuxtqivkm eqbp bpmam mvikbumvba, Q pidm ixxwqvbml i kwuuqaaqwvmz, epw
pia xzwkmmlml bw Xiziocig eqbp nctt xwemza ivl qvabzckbqwva bw ambbtm bpmam
lqnnmzmvkma qv iv iuqkijtm ivl xmikmnct uivvmz qn bpqa jm xzikbqkijtm. Pqa
mfxmzqmvkm ivl lqakzmbqwv rcabqng bpm pwxm bpib pm uig xzwdm ackkmaanct qv
kwvdqvkqvo bpm Xiziocigiv Owdmzvumvb bpib qb qa lcm jwbp bw pwvwz ivl
rcabqkm bpib bpmg apwctl dwtcvbizqtg ivl xzwuxbtg uism ibwvmumvb nwz bpm
ezwvoa epqkp bpmg pidm kwuuqbbml ioiqvab bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl qvlmuvqng
wcz qvrczml kqbqhmva epwu bpmg pidm nwzkqjtg lmaxwqtml wn bpmqz xzwxmzbg.

Apwctl wcz kwuuqaaqwvmz xzwdm cvackkmaanct inbmz i aqvkmzm ivl mizvmab
mnnwzb bw ikkwuxtqap bpm wjrmkb wn pqa uqaaqwv, bpmv vw itbmzvibqdm eqtt
zmuiqv jcb bpm muxtwgumvb wn nwzkm bw wjbiqv "rcab aibqanikbqwv" nzwu
Xiziocig. Qv dqme wn bpqa kwvbqvomvkg, bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg, cvlmz ug
lqzmkbqwv, pia nqbbml wcb ivl lqaxibkpml i vidit nwzkm bw zmvlmhdwca vmiz
Jcmvwa Igzma, epqkp, qb qa jmtqmdml, eqtt xzwdm acnnqkqmvb nwz bpm
wkkiaqwv. Qb qa ug mizvmab lmaqzm, pwemdmz, bpib qb uig vwb jm nwcvl
vmkmaaizg bw zmawzb bw bpqa tiab itbmzvibqdm.

Epmv Kwvozmaa umb qv Lmkmujmz tiab bpm jcaqvmaa wn bpm kwcvbzg pil rcab
jmmv kzcapml jg wvm wn bpwam xmzqwlqkit zmdctaqwva epqkp izm bpm qvmdqbijtm
kwvamycmvkm wn wcz cvawcvl ivl mfbzidioivb agabmu wn jivs kzmlqba ivl
qvntibml kczzmvkg. Eqbp itt bpm mtmumvba wn vibqwvit emitbp qv ijcvlivkm,
wcz uivcnikbczma emzm acaxmvlml, wcz camnct xcjtqk ivl xzqdibm mvbmzxzqama
emzm izzmabml, ivl bpwcaivla wn tijwzmza emzm lmxzqdml wn muxtwgumvb ivl
zmlckml bw eivb. Cvqdmzait lqabzmaa xzmdiqtml iuwvo bpm kwuumzkqit,
uivcnikbczqvo, ivl umkpivqkit ktiaama. Bpqa zmdctaqwv eia nmtb bpm uwzm
amdmzmtg qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma jmkicam aquqtiz kicama pil xzwlckml bpm tqsm
lmxtwzijtm mnnmkba bpzwcopwcb bpm kwuumzkqit vibqwva wn Mczwxm. Itt emzm
mfxmzqmvkqvo ail zmdmzama ib bpm aium uwumvb. Wcz uivcnikbczmza mdmzgepmzm
acnnmzml amdmzmtg, vwb jmkicam wn bpm zmkmvb zmlckbqwv qv bpm bizqnn wn
lcbqma wv quxwzba, jcb jmkicam bpmzm eia vw lmuivl ib ivg xzqkm nwz bpmqz
xzwlckbqwva. Bpm xmwxtm emzm wjtqoml bw zmabzqkb bpmuamtdma qv bpmqz
xczkpiama bw izbqktma wn xzqum vmkmaaqbg. Qv bpm omvmzit xzwabzibqwv wn
jcaqvmaa bpm qzwv uivcnikbczmza qv lqnnmzmvb Abibma xzwjijtg acnnmzml uwzm
bpiv ivg wbpmz ktiaa, ivl uckp lmabqbcbqwv eia bpm qvmdqbijtm kwvamycmvkm
iuwvo bpm ozmib vcujmz wn ewzsumv epw pil jmmv muxtwgml qv bpqa camnct
jzivkp wn qvlcabzg. Bpmzm kwctl jm vw acxxtg epmzm bpmzm eia vw lmuivl. Bw
xzmamvb iv mfiuxtm, bpmzm kwctl jm vw lmuivl nwz ziqtzwil qzwv inbmz wcz
uiovqnqkmvb agabmu wn ziqtzwila, mfbmvlqvo qba jmvmnqba bw mdmzg xwzbqwv wn
bpm Cvqwv, pil jmmv jzwcopb bw i lmil xicam. Bpm aium kwvamycmvkma pidm
zmactbml nzwu aquqtiz kicama bw uivg wbpmz jzivkpma wn camnct uivcnikbczma.
Qb qa amtn-mdqlmvb bpib epmzm bpmzm qa vw ijqtqbg bw xczkpiam uivcnikbczml
izbqktma bpmam kiv vwb jm awtl, ivl kwvamycmvbtg ucab kmiam bw jm
xzwlckml.

Vw owdmzvumvb, ivl maxmkqittg i owdmzvumvb wn ackp tquqbml xwemza ia bpib
wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, kwctl pidm xzmdmvbml bpm tibm zmdctaqwv. Bpm epwtm
kwuumzkqit ewztl ammuml nwz gmiza bw pidm jmmv zcapqvo bw bpqa kibiabzwxpm.
Bpm aium zcqvwca kwvamycmvkma ewctl pidm nwttweml qv bpm Cvqbml Abibma
epmbpmz bpm lcbqma cxwv nwzmqov quxwzba pil zmuiqvml ia bpmg emzm cvlmz bpm
bizqnn wn 1846 wz pil jmmv ziqaml bw i uckp pqopmz abivlizl. Bpm bizqnn wn
1857 pil vw iomvkg qv bpm zmactb. Bpm omvmzit kicama mfqabqvo bpzwcopwcb
bpm ewztl kwctl vwb pidm jmmv kwvbzwttml jg bpm tmoqatibqwv wn ivg
xizbqkctiz kwcvbzg.

Bpm xmzqwlqkit zmdctaqwva epqkp pidm mfqabml qv wcz xiab pqabwzg ucab
kwvbqvcm bw zmbczv ib qvbmzdita aw twvo ia wcz xzmamvb cvjwcvlml agabmu wn
jivs kzmlqba apitt xzmdiqt. Bpmg eqtt, pwemdmz, xzwjijtg jm bpm tmaa amdmzm
qv ncbczm, jmkicam qb qa vwb bw jm mfxmkbml, ib tmiab nwz uivg gmiza bw
kwum, bpib bpm kwuumzkqit vibqwva wn Mczwxm, eqbp epwam qvbmzmaba wcz wev
izm aw uibmzqittg qvdwtdml, eqtt mfxwam bpmuamtdma bw aquqtiz kitiuqbqma.
Jcb bpqa acjrmkb eia bzmibml aw uckp ib tizom qv ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom
bpib Q apitt vwb vwe xczacm qb nczbpmz. Abqtt, Q zmaxmkbncttg zmvme bpm
zmkwuumvlibqwv qv nidwz wn bpm xiaaiom wn i cvqnwzu jivszcxb tie ixxtqkijtm
bw jivsqvo qvabqbcbqwva. Bpqa qa itt bpm lqzmkb xwemz wdmz bpm acjrmkb
epqkp Q jmtqmdm bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb xwaamaama. Ackp i tie ewctl
uqbqoibm, bpwcop qb uqopb vwb xzmdmvb, bpm mdqt. Bpm qvabqvkb wn
amtn-xzmamzdibqwv uqopb xzwlckm i epwtmawum zmabziqvb cxwv bpmqz jivsqvo
jcaqvmaa qn bpmg svme qv ildivkm bpib i acaxmvaqwv wn axmkqm xigumvba ewctl
qvmdqbijtg xzwlckm bpmqz kqdqt lmibp.

Jcb bpm mnnmkba wn bpm zmdctaqwv izm vwe atwetg jcb aczmtg xiaaqvo ieig.
Bpm mvmzog ivl mvbmzxzqam wn wcz kqbqhmva, eqbp wcz cvjwcvlml zmawczkma,
eqtt eqbpqv bpm xmzqwl wn ivwbpmz gmiz zmabwzm i abibm wn epwtmawum
qvlcabzg ivl bzilm. Kixqbit pia ioiqv ikkcuctibml qv wcz tizom kqbqma. Bpm
zibm wn qvbmzmab qa bpmzm dmzg twe. Kwvnqlmvkm qa ozilcittg zmdqdqvo, ivl
aw awwv ia qb qa lqakwdmzml bpib bpqa kixqbit kiv jm xzwnqbijtg muxtwgml qv
kwuumzkqit ivl uivcnikbczqvo mvbmzxzqama ivl qv bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn
ziqtzwila ivl wbpmz ewzsa wn xcjtqk ivl xzqdibm quxzwdmumvb xzwaxmzqbg eqtt
ioiqv auqtm bpzwcopwcb bpm tivl. Qb qa diqv, pwemdmz, bw lqaocqam bpm nikb
nzwu wczamtdma bpib i axmkctibqdm qvntibqwv wn wcz kczzmvkg eqbpwcb i
kwzzmaxwvlqvo qvntibqwv qv wbpmz kwcvbzqma epwam uivcnikbczma kwum qvbw
kwuxmbqbqwv eqbp wcz wev ucab mdmz xzwlckm lqaiabzwca zmactba bw wcz
lwumabqk uivcnikbczma. Vw bizqnn apwzb wn ijawtcbm xzwpqjqbqwv kiv xzmdmvb
bpmam mdqt kwvamycmvkma. Qv kwvvmkbqwv eqbp bpqa acjrmkb qb qa xzwxmz bw
zmnmz bw wcz nqvivkqit kwvlqbqwv. Bpm aium kicama epqkp pidm xzwlckml
xmkcvqizg lqabzmaa bpzwcopwcb bpm kwcvbzg pidm aw zmlckml bpm iuwcvb wn
quxwzba nzwu nwzmqov kwcvbzqma bpib bpm zmdmvcm pia xzwdml qvilmycibm bw
ummb bpm vmkmaaizg mfxmvama wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Bw acxxtg bpm lmnqkqmvkg,
Kwvozmaa, jg bpm ikb wn Lmkmujmz 23, 1857, icbpwzqhml bpm qaacm wn
$20,000,000 wn Bzmiaczg vwbma; ivl bpqa xzwdqvo qvilmycibm, bpmg
icbpwzqhml, jg bpm ikb wn Rcvm 14, 1858, i twiv wn $20,000,000, bw jm
ixxtqml bw bpm xigumvb wn ixxzwxzqibqwva uilm jg tie."

Vw abibmauiv ewctl ildqam bpib em apwctl ow wv qvkzmiaqvo bpm vibqwvit lmjb
bw ummb bpm wzlqvizg mfxmvama wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Bpqa ewctl jm i uwab
zcqvwca xwtqkg. Qv kiam wn eiz wcz kzmlqb ucab jm wcz kpqmn zmawczkm, ib
tmiab nwz bpm nqzab gmiz, ivl bpqa ewctl jm ozmibtg quxiqzml jg pidqvo
kwvbzikbml i tizom lmjb qv bqum wn xmikm. Qb qa wcz bzcm xwtqkg bw qvkzmiam
wcz zmdmvcm aw ia bw mycit wcz mfxmvlqbczma. Qb ewctl jm zcqvwca bw
kwvbqvcm bw jwzzwe. Jmaqlma, qb uig jm xzwxmz bw wjamzdm bpib bpm
qvkqlmvbit xzwbmkbqwv bpca innwzlml jg i zmdmvcm bizqnn ewctl ib bpm
xzmamvb uwumvb bw awum mfbmvb qvkzmiam bpm kwvnqlmvkm wn bpm uivcnikbczqvo
qvbmzmaba ivl oqdm i nzmap quxctam bw wcz zmdqdqvo jcaqvmaa. Bw bpqa aczmtg
vw xmzawv eqtt wjrmkb.

Qv zmoizl bw bpm uwlm wn iaamaaqvo ivl kwttmkbqvo lcbqma cvlmz i abzqkbtg
zmdmvcm bizqnn, Q pidm twvo mvbmzbiqvml ivl wnbmv mfxzmaaml bpm wxqvqwv
bpib awcvl xwtqkg zmycqzma bpqa apwctl jm lwvm jg axmkqnqk lcbqma qv kiama
bw epqkp bpmam kiv jm xzwxmztg ixxtqml. Bpmg izm emtt ilixbml bw
kwuuwlqbqma epqkp izm cacittg awtl jg emqopb wz jg umiaczm, ivl epqkp nzwu
bpmqz vibczm izm wn mycit wz wn vmiztg mycit ditcm. Ackp, nwz mfiuxtm, izm
bpm izbqktma wn qzwv wn lqnnmzmvb ktiaama, zie acoiz, ivl nwzmqov eqvma ivl
axqzqba.

Qv ug lmtqjmzibm rcloumvb axmkqnqk lcbqma izm bpm jmab, qn vwb bpm wvtg,
umiva wn amkczqvo bpm zmdmvcm ioiqvab nitam ivl nziclctmvb qvdwqkma, ivl
ackp pia jmmv bpm xzikbqkm ilwxbml nwz bpqa xczxwam jg wbpmz kwuumzkqit
vibqwva. Jmaqlma, axmkqnqk lcbqma ewctl innwzl bw bpm Iumzqkiv uivcnikbczmz
bpm qvkqlmvbit ildivbioma bw epqkp pm qa niqztg mvbqbtml cvlmz i zmdmvcm
bizqnn. Bpm xzmamvb agabmu qa i atqlqvo akitm bw pqa lqaildivbiom. Cvlmz
qb, epmv xzqkma izm pqop ivl jcaqvmaa xzwaxmzwca, bpm lcbqma zqam qv iuwcvb
epmv pm tmiab zmycqzma bpmqz iql. Wv bpm kwvbzizg, epmv xzqkma nitt ivl pm
qa abzcootqvo ioiqvab ildmzaqbg, bpm lcbqma izm lquqvqapml qv bpm aium
xzwxwzbqwv, ozmibtg bw pqa qvrczg. Vmqbpmz ewctl bpmzm jm livomz bpib i
pqopmz zibm wn lcbg bpiv bpib qvbmvlml jg Kwvozmaa kwctl jm tmdqml qv bpm
nwzu wn axmkqnqk lcbqma. Qb ewctl jm miag bw iakmzbiqv bpm idmziom ditcm wn
ivg quxwzbml izbqktm nwz i amzqma wn gmiza, ivl, qvabmil wn acjrmkbqvo qb
bw iv il ditwzmu lcbg ib i kmzbiqv zibm xmz kmvbcu, bw acjabqbcbm qv qba
xtikm iv mycqditmvb axmkqnqk lcbg.

Jg ackp iv izzivomumvb bpm kwvacumz ewctl vwb jm qvrczml. Qb qa bzcm pm
uqopb pidm bw xig i tqbbtm uwzm lcbg wv i oqdmv izbqktm qv wvm gmiz, jcb,
qn aw, pm ewctl xig i tqbbtm tmaa qv ivwbpmz, ivl qv i amzqma wn gmiza
bpmam ewctl kwcvbmzjitivkm mikp wbpmz ivl iuwcvb bw bpm aium bpqvo aw niz
ia pqa qvbmzmab qa kwvkmzvml. Bpqa qvkwvdmvqmvkm ewctl jm bzqntqvo epmv
kwvbziabml eqbp bpm illqbqwvit amkczqbg bpca innwzlml ioiqvab nzicla cxwv
bpm zmdmvcm, qv epqkp mdmzg kwvacumz qa lqzmkbtg qvbmzmabml.

Q pidm bpzwev wcb bpmam acoomabqwva ia bpm nzcqb wn ug wev wjamzdibqwv, bw
epqkp Kwvozmaa, qv bpmqz jmbbmz rcloumvb, eqtt oqdm ackp emqopb ia bpmg uig
rcabtg lmamzdm.

Bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg eqtt mfxtiqv qv lmbiqt bpm
wxmzibqwva wn bpib Lmxizbumvb wn bpm Owdmzvumvb. Bpm zmkmqxba qvbw bpm
Bzmiaczg nzwu itt awczkma lczqvo bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1858,
qvktclqvo bpm Bzmiaczg vwbma icbpwzqhml jg bpm ikb wn Lmkmujmz 23, 1857,
emzm $70,273,869.59, epqkp iuwcvb, eqbp bpm jitivkm wn $17,710,114.27
zmuiqvqvo qv bpm Bzmiaczg ib bpm kwuumvkmumvb wn bpm gmiz, uilm iv
ioozmoibm nwz bpm amzdqkm wn bpm gmiz wn $87,983,983.86.

Bpm xcjtqk mfxmvlqbczma lczqvo bpm nqakit gmiz mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1858,
iuwcvbml bw $81,585,667.76, wn epqkp $9,684,537.99 emzm ixxtqml bw bpm
xigumvb wn bpm xcjtqk lmjb ivl bpm zmlmuxbqwv wn Bzmiaczg vwbma eqbp bpm
qvbmzmab bpmzmwv, tmidqvo qv bpm Bzmiaczg wv Rctg 1, 1858, jmqvo bpm
kwuumvkmumvb wn bpm xzmamvb nqakit gmiz, $6,398,316.10.

Bpm zmkmqxba qvbw bpm Bzmiaczg lczqvo bpm nqzab ycizbmz wn bpm xzmamvb
nqakit gmiz, kwuumvkqvo bpm 1ab wn Rctg, 1858, qvktclqvo wvm-pitn wn bpm
twiv wn $20,000,000, eqbp bpm xzmuqcu cxwv qb, icbpwzqhml jg bpm ikb wn
Rcvm 14, 1858, emzm $25,230,879.46, ivl bpm mabquibml zmkmqxba nwz bpm
zmuiqvqvo bpzmm ycizbmza bw bpm 30bp wn Rcvm, 1859, nzwu wzlqvizg awczkma
izm $38,500,000, uisqvo, eqbp bpm jitivkm jmnwzm abibml, iv ioozmoibm wn
$70,129,195.56.

Bpm mfxmvlqbczma lczqvo bpm nqzab ycizbmz wn bpm xzmamvb nqakit gmiz emzm
$21,708,198.51, wn epqkp $1,010,142.37 emzm ixxtqml bw bpm xigumvb wn bpm
xcjtqk lmjb ivl bpm zmlmuxbqwv wn Bzmiaczg vwbma ivl bpm qvbmzmab bpmzmwv.
Bpm mabquibml mfxmvlqbczma lczqvo bpm zmuiqvqvo bpzmm ycizbmza bw Rcvm 30,
1859, izm $52,357,698.48, uisqvo iv ioozmoibm wn $74,065,896.99, jmqvo iv
mfkmaa wn mfxmvlqbczm jmgwvl bpm mabquibml zmkmqxba qvbw bpm Bzmiaczg nzwu
wzlqvizg awczkma lczqvo bpm nqakit gmiz bw bpm 30bp wn Rcvm, 1859, wn
$3,936,701.43. Mfbziwzlqvizg umiva izm xtikml jg tie eqbpqv bpm kwuuivl wn
bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg, jg bpm zmqaacm wn Bzmiaczg vwbma zmlmmuml
ivl jg vmowbqibqvo bpm jitivkm wn bpm twiv icbpwzqhml jg bpm ikb wn Rcvm
14, 1858, bw bpm mfbmvb wn $11,000,000, epqkp, qn zmitqhml lczqvo bpm
xzmamvb nqakit gmiz, eqtt tmidm i jitivkm qv bpm Bzmiaczg wv bpm 1ab lig wn
Rctg, 1859, wn $7,063,298.57.

Bpm mabquibml zmkmqxba lczqvo bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz, mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1860,
izm $62,000,000, epqkp, eqbp bpm ijwdm-mabquibml jitivkm wn $7,063,298.57
uism iv ioozmoibm nwz bpm amzdqkm wn bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz wn
$69,063,298.57. Bpm mabquibml mfxmvlqbczma lczqvo bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz,
mvlqvo Rcvm 30, 1860, izm $73,139,147.46, epqkp tmidma i lmnqkqb wn
mabquibml umiva, kwuxizml eqbp bpm mabquibml mfxmvlqbczma, nwz bpib gmiz,
kwuumvkqvo wv Rctg 1, 1859, wn $4,075,848.89.

Qv illqbqwv bw bpqa acu bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit eqtt zmycqzm nzwu bpm
Bzmiaczg nwz bpm amzdqkm wn bpm Xwab-Wnnqkm Lmxizbumvb $3,838,728, ia
mfxtiqvml qv bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg, epqkp eqtt
qvkzmiam bpm mabquibml lmnqkqb wv Rcvm 30, 1860, bw $7,914,576.89. Bw
xzwdqlm nwz bpm xigumvb wn bpqa mabquibml lmnqkqmvkg, epqkp eqtt jm
qvkzmiaml jg ackp ixxzwxzqibqwva ia uig jm uilm jg Kwvozmaa vwb mabquibml
nwz qv bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Bzmiaczg Lmxizbumvb, ia emtt ia bw xzwdqlm nwz bpm
ozilcit zmlmuxbqwv nzwu gmiz bw gmiz wn bpm wcbabivlqvo Bzmiaczg vwbma, bpm
Amkzmbizg wn bpm Bzmiaczg zmkwuumvla ackp i zmdqaqwv wn bpm xzmamvb bizqnn
ia eqtt ziqam bpm zmycqzml iuwcvb. Inbmz epib Q pidm itzmilg aiql Q vmml
akizkmtg ill bpib Q kwvkcz qv bpm wxqvqwv mfxzmaaml qv pqa zmxwzb--bpib bpm
xcjtqk lmjb apwctl vwb jm qvkzmiaml jg iv illqbqwvit twiv--ivl ewctl
bpmzmnwzm abzwvotg czom cxwv Kwvozmaa bpm lcbg wn uisqvo ib bpmqz xzmamvb
amaaqwv bpm vmkmaaizg xzwdqaqwv nwz ummbqvo bpmam tqijqtqbqma.

Bpm xcjtqk lmjb wv Rctg 1, 1858, bpm kwuumvkmumvb wn bpm xzmamvb nqakit
gmiz, eia $25,155,977.66.

Lczqvo bpm nqzab ycizbmz wn bpm xzmamvb gmiz bpm acu wn $10,000,000 pia
jmmv vmowbqibml wn bpm twiv icbpwzqhml jg bpm ikb wn Rcvm 14, 1858, uisqvo
bpm xzmamvb wcbabivlqvo xcjtqk lmjb, mfktcaqdm wn Bzmiaczg vwbma,
$35,155,977.66. Bpmzm eia wv bpm 1ab wn Rctg, 1858, wn Bzmiaczg vwbma
qaacml jg icbpwzqbg wn bpm ikb wn Lmkmujmz 23, 1857, cvzmlmmuml, bpm acu wn
$19,754,800, uisqvo bpm iuwcvb wn ikbcit qvlmjbmlvmaa ib bpib libm
$54,910,777.66. Bw bpqa eqtt jm illml $10,000,000 lczqvo bpm xzmamvb nqakit
gmiz, bpqa jmqvo bpm zmuiqvqvo pitn wn bpm twiv wn $20,000,000 vwb gmb
vmowbqibml.

Bpm zixql qvkzmiam wn bpm xcjtqk lmjb ivl bpm vmkmaaqbg epqkp mfqaba nwz i
uwlqnqkibqwv wn bpm bizqnn bw ummb mdmv bpm wzlqvizg mfxmvama wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb wcopb bw iluwvqap ca itt, qv wcz zmaxmkbqdm axpmzma wn lcbg, bw
bpm xzikbqkm wn zqoql mkwvwug. Bpm wjrmkba wn mfxmvlqbczm apwctl jm tquqbml
qv vcujmz, ia niz ia bpqa uig jm xzikbqkijtm, ivl bpm ixxzwxzqibqwva
vmkmaaizg bw kizzg bpmu qvbw mnnmkb wcopb bw jm lqajczaml cvlmz bpm
abzqkbmab ikkwcvbijqtqbg. Mvtqopbmvml mkwvwug lwma vwb kwvaqab qv bpm
zmncait bw ixxzwxzqibm uwvmg nwz kwvabqbcbqwvit xczxwama maamvbqit bw bpm
lmnmvam, xzwozmaa, ivl xzwaxmzqbg wn bpm Zmxcjtqk, jcb qv bisqvo kizm bpib
vwvm wn bpqa uwvmg apitt jm eiabml jg uqauiviomumvb qv qba ixxtqkibqwv bw
bpm wjrmkba lmaqovibml jg tie.

Kwuxizqawva jmbemmv bpm ivvcit mfxmvlqbczm ib bpm xzmamvb bqum ivl epib qb
eia bmv wz bemvbg gmiza iow izm itbwombpmz nittikqwca. Bpm zixql qvkzmiam
wn wcz kwcvbzg qv mfbmvb ivl xwxctibqwv zmvlmza i kwzzmaxwvlqvo qvkzmiam wn
mfxmvlqbczm bw awum mfbmvb cvidwqlijtm. Bpqa qa kwvabivbtg kzmibqvo vme
wjrmkba wn mfxmvlqbczm ivl icoumvbqvo bpm iuwcvb zmycqzml nwz bpm wtl. Bpm
bzcm ycmabqwva, bpmv, izm, Pidm bpmam wjrmkba jmmv cvvmkmaaizqtg
uctbqxtqml, wz pia bpm iuwcvb mfxmvlml cxwv ivg wz itt wn bpmu jmmv tizomz
bpiv kwuxwzba eqbp lcm mkwvwug? Qv ikkwzlivkm eqbp bpmam xzqvkqxtma, bpm
pmila wn bpm lqnnmzmvb Mfmkcbqdm Lmxizbumvba wn bpm Owdmzvumvb pidm jmmv
qvabzckbml bw zmlckm bpmqz mabquibma nwz bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz bw bpm twemab
abivlizl kwvaqabmvb eqbp bpm mnnqkqmvkg wn bpm amzdqkm, ivl bpqa lcbg bpmg
pidm xmznwzuml qv i axqzqb wn rcab mkwvwug. Bpm mabquibma wn bpm Bzmiaczg,
Eiz, Vidg, ivl Qvbmzqwz Lmxizbumvba pidm mikp jmmv qv awum lmozmm zmlckml,
ivl cvtmaa i acllmv ivl cvnwzmammv mumzomvkg apwctl izqam qb qa vwb
ivbqkqxibml bpib i lmnqkqmvkg eqtt mfqab qv mqbpmz eqbpqv bpm xzmamvb wz
bpm vmfb nqakit gmiz. Bpm Xwab-Wnnqkm Lmxizbumvb qa xtikml qv i xmkctqiz
xwaqbqwv, lqnnmzmvb nzwu bpm wbpmz Lmxizbumvba, ivl bw bpqa Q apitt
pmzminbmz zmnmz.

Q qvdqbm Kwvozmaa bw qvabqbcbm i zqoql akzcbqvg bw iakmzbiqv epmbpmz bpm
mfxmvama qv itt bpm Lmxizbumvba kiv vwb jm abqtt nczbpmz zmlckml, ivl Q
xzwuqam bpmu itt bpm iql qv ug xwemz qv xczacqvo bpm qvdmabqoibqwv.

Q bzivauqb pmzmeqbp bpm zmxwzba uilm bw um jg bpm Amkzmbizqma wn Eiz, wn
bpm Vidg, wn bpm Qvbmzqwz, ivl wn bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit. Bpmg mikp kwvbiqv
ditcijtm qvnwzuibqwv ivl quxwzbivb zmkwuumvlibqwva, bw epqkp Q qvdqbm bpm
ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa.

Qv ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom Q bwws wkkiaqwv bw zmkwuumvl bpm quumlqibm
kwvabzckbqwv wn bmv auitt abmiumza wn tqopb lzinb, nwz bpm xczxwam wn
qvkzmiaqvo bpm mnnqkqmvkg wn bpm Vidg. Kwvozmaa zmaxwvlml bw bpm
zmkwuumvlibqwv jg icbpwzqhqvo bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn mqopb wn bpmu. Bpm
xzwozmaa epqkp pia jmmv uilm qv mfmkcbqvo bpqa icbpwzqbg qa abibml qv bpm
zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Vidg. Q kwvkcz eqbp pqu qv bpm wxqvqwv bpib
i ozmibmz vcujmz wn bpqa ktiaa wn dmaamta qa vmkmaaizg nwz bpm xczxwam wn
xzwbmkbqvo qv i uwzm mnnqkqmvb uivvmz bpm xmzawva ivl xzwxmzbg wn Iumzqkiv
kqbqhmva wv bpm pqop amia ivl qv nwzmqov kwcvbzqma, ia emtt ia qv ocizlqvo
uwzm mnnmkbcittg wcz wev kwiaba. Q ikkwzlqvotg zmkwuumvl bpm xiaaiom wn iv
ikb nwz bpqa xczxwam.

Bpm acoomabqwva kwvbiqvml qv bpm zmxwzb wn bpm Amkzmbizg wn bpm Qvbmzqwz,
maxmkqittg bpwam qv zmoizl bw bpm lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpm xcjtqk lwuiqv, bpm
xmvaqwv ivl jwcvbg-tivl agabmu, bpm xwtqkg bweizl bpm Qvlqiva, ivl bpm
iumvlumvb wn wcz xibmvb tiea, izm ewzbpg wn bpm amzqwca kwvaqlmzibqwv wn
Kwvozmaa.

Bpm Xwab-Wnnqkm Lmxizbumvb wkkcxqma i xwaqbqwv dmzg lqnnmzmvb nzwu bpib wn
bpm wbpmz Lmxizbumvba. Nwz uivg gmiza qb eia bpm xwtqkg wn bpm Owdmzvumvb
bw zmvlmz bpqa i amtn-acabiqvqvo Lmxizbumvb; ivl qn bpqa kiv vwb vwe jm
ikkwuxtqapml, qv bpm xzmamvb kwvlqbqwv wn bpm kwcvbzg, em wcopb bw uism ia
vmiz iv ixxzwikp bw qb ia uig jm xzikbqkijtm.

Bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit qa xtikml qv i uwab mujizziaaqvo xwaqbqwv jg bpm
mfqabqvo tiea. Pm qa wjtqoml bw kizzg bpmam qvbw mnnmkb. Pm pia vw wbpmz
itbmzvibqdm. Pm nqvla, pwemdmz, bpib bpqa kiv vwb jm lwvm eqbpwcb pmidg
lmuivla cxwv bpm Bzmiaczg wdmz ivl ijwdm epib qa zmkmqdml nwz xwabiom, ivl
bpmam pidm jmmv xzwozmaaqdmtg qvkzmiaqvo nzwu gmiz bw gmiz cvbqt bpmg
iuwcvbml nwz bpm tiab nqakit gmiz, mvlqvo wv bpm 30bp wn Rcvm, 1858, bw
uwzm bpiv $4,500,000, epqtab qb qa mabquibml bpib nwz bpm xzmamvb nqakit
gmiz bpmg eqtt iuwcvb bw $6,290,000. Bpmam acua izm mfktcaqdm wn bpm ivvcit
ixxzwxzqibqwv wn $700,000 nwz "kwuxmvaibqwv nwz bpm uiqt amzdqkm xmznwzuml
nwz bpm bew Pwcama wn Kwvozmaa ivl bpm wbpmz Lmxizbumvba ivl wnnqkmza wn
bpm Owdmzvumvb qv bpm bzivauqaaqwv wn nzmm uibbmz."

Bpm kicam wn bpmam tizom lmnqkqba qa uiqvtg ibbzqjcbijtm bw bpm qvkzmiaml
mfxmvam wn bzivaxwzbqvo bpm uiqta. Qv 1852 bpm acu xiql nwz bpqa amzdqkm
eia jcb i nzikbqwv ijwdm nwcz uqttqwva ivl i ycizbmz. Aqvkm bpib gmiz qb
pia ivvcittg qvkzmiaml, cvbqt qv 1858 qb pia zmikpml uwzm bpiv mqopb
uqttqwva ivl i ycizbmz, ivl nwz bpm amzdqkm wn 1859 qb qa mabquibml bpib qb
eqtt iuwcvb bw uwzm bpiv $10,000,000.

Bpm zmkmqxba wn bpm Xwab-Wnnqkm Lmxizbumvb kiv jm uilm bw ixxzwikp wz bw
mycit qba mfxmvlqbczm wvtg jg umiva wn bpm tmoqatibqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Qv
ixxtgqvo ivg zmumlg kizm apwctl jm bismv bpib bpm xmwxtm apitt vwb jm
lmxzqdml wn bpm ildivbioma epqkp bpmg izm niqztg mvbqbtml bw mvrwg nzwu bpm
Xwab-Wnnqkm Lmxizbumvb. Bpm xzqvkqxit zmumlqma zmkwuumvlml bw bpm
kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa jg bpm Xwabuiabmz-Omvmzit izm bw zmabwzm bpm
nwzumz zibm wn xwabiom cxwv aqvotm tmbbmza bw 5 kmvba; bw acjabqbcbm nwz
bpm nzivsqvo xzqdqtmom bpm lmtqdmzg bw bpwam vwe mvbqbtml bw mvrwg qb wn
xwab-wnnqkm abiuxa nwz bpmqz kwzzmaxwvlmvkm, ivl bw lqzmkb bpm Lmxizbumvb
qv uisqvo kwvbzikba nwz bpm bzivaxwzbibqwv wn bpm uiqt bw kwvnqvm qbamtn bw
bpm xigumvb wn bpm acu vmkmaaizg nwz bpqa aqvotm xczxwam, eqbpwcb zmycqzqvo
qb bw jm bzivaxwzbml qv xwab kwikpma wz kizzqioma wn ivg xizbqkctiz
lmakzqxbqwv. Cvlmz bpm xzmamvb agabmu bpm mfxmvam bw bpm Owdmzvumvb qa
ozmibtg qvkzmiaml jg zmycqzqvo bpib bpm uiqt apitt jm kizzqml qv ackp
dmpqktma ia eqtt ikkwuuwlibm xiaamvomza. Bpqa eqtt jm lwvm, eqbpwcb xig
nzwu bpm Lmxizbumvb, wdmz itt zwila epmzm bpm bzidmt eqtt zmucvmzibm bpm
kwvbzikbwza.

Bpmam zmkwuumvlibqwva lmamzdm bpm ozidm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa. Q ewctl
ioiqv kitt gwcz ibbmvbqwv bw bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn i Xikqnqk ziqtzwil. Bqum
ivl zmntmkbqwv pidm jcb amzdml bw kwvnqzu um qv bpm bzcbp ivl rcabqkm wn
bpm wjamzdibqwva epqkp Q uilm wv bpqa acjrmkb qv ug tiab ivvcit umaaiom, bw
epqkp Q jmo tmidm zmaxmkbncttg bw zmnmz.

Qb qa nzmmtg iluqbbml bpib qb ewctl jm qvmfxmlqmvb nwz bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw
mfmzkqam bpm xwemz wn kwvabzckbqvo bpm Xikqnqk ziqtzwil jg qba wev
quumlqibm iomvba. Ackp i xwtqkg ewctl qvkzmiam bpm xibzwviom wn bpm
Mfmkcbqdm bw i livomzwca mfbmvb, ivl qvbzwlckm i agabmu wn rwjjqvo ivl
kwzzcxbqwv epqkp vw dqoqtivkm wv bpm xizb wn Nmlmzit wnnqkqita kwctl mqbpmz
xzmdmvb wz lmbmkb. Bpqa kiv wvtg jm lwvm jg bpm smmv mgm ivl ikbqdm ivl
kizmnct acxmzdqaqwv wn qvlqdqlcit ivl xzqdibm qvbmzmab. Bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn
bpqa zwil wcopb bpmzmnwzm bw jm kwuuqbbml bw kwuxivqma qvkwzxwzibml jg bpm
Abibma wz wbpmz iomvkqma epwam xmkcvqizg qvbmzmaba ewctl jm lqzmkbtg
qvdwtdml. Kwvozmaa uqopb bpmv iaaqab bpmu qv bpm ewzs jg ozivba wn tivl wz
wn uwvmg, wz jwbp, cvlmz ackp kwvlqbqwva ivl zmabzqkbqwva ia ewctl amkczm
bpm bzivaxwzbibqwv wn bzwwxa ivl ucvqbqwva wn eiz nzmm nzwu ivg kpizom ivl
bpib wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma uiqt ib i niqz ivl zmiawvijtm xzqkm.

Bpm xzwozmaa wn mdmvba aqvkm bpm kwuumvkmumvb wn gwcz tiab amaaqwv pia
apwev pwe awwv lqnnqkctbqma lqaixxmiz jmnwzm i nqzu ivl lmbmzuqvml
zmawtcbqwv. Ib bpib bqum ackp i zwil eia lmmuml jg eqam ivl xibzqwbqk umv
bw jm i dqaqwvizg xzwrmkb. Bpm ozmib lqabivkm bw jm wdmzkwum ivl bpm
qvbmzdmvqvo uwcvbiqva ivl lmamzba qv bpm eig emzm wjabiktma epqkp, qv bpm
wxqvqwv wn uivg, kwctl vwb jm aczuwcvbml. Vwe, inbmz bpm tixam wn jcb i
aqvotm gmiz, bpmam wjabiktma, qb pia jmmv lqakwdmzml, izm niz tmaa
nwzuqlijtm bpiv bpmg emzm acxxwaml bw jm, ivl uiqt abioma eqbp xiaamvomza
vwe xiaa ivl zmxiaa zmoctiztg beqkm qv mikp emms, jg i kwuuwv eiowv zwil,
jmbemmv Aiv Nzivkqakw ivl Ab. Twcqa ivl Umuxpqa qv tmaa bpiv bemvbg-nqdm
liga. Bpm amzdqkm pia jmmv ia zmoctiztg xmznwzuml ia qb eia qv nwzumz gmiza
jmbemmv Vme Gwzs ivl bpqa kqbg.

Epqtab lqaktiquqvo itt icbpwzqbg bw ixxzwxzqibm uwvmg nwz bpm kwvabzckbqwv
wn bpqa zwil, mfkmxb bpib lmzqdml nzwu bpm eiz-uisqvo xwemz wn bpm
Kwvabqbcbqwv, bpmzm izm quxwzbivb kwttibmzit kwvaqlmzibqwva czoqvo ca bw
cvlmzbism bpm ewzs ia axmmlqtg ia xwaaqjtm. Bpm nqzab ivl uwab uwumvbwca wn
bpmam qa bpib ackp i zwil ewctl jm i xwemznct jwvl wn cvqwv jmbemmv bpm
Abibma miab ivl emab wn bpm Zwksg Uwcvbiqva. Bpqa qa aw amtn-mdqlmvb ia bw
zmycqzm vw qttcabzibqwv.

Jcb ioiqv, qv i kwuumzkqit xwqvb wn dqme, Q kwvaqlmz bpqa bpm ozmib
ycmabqwv wn bpm lig. Eqbp bpm miabmzv nzwvb wn wcz Zmxcjtqk abzmbkpqvo
itwvo bpm Ibtivbqk ivl qba emabmzv nzwvb itwvo bpm Xikqnqk, qn itt bpm
xizba apwctl jm cvqbml jg i ainm, miag, ivl zixql qvbmzkwuucvqkibqwv em
ucab vmkmaaizqtg kwuuivl i dmzg tizom xzwxwzbqwv wn bpm bzilm jwbp wn
Mczwxm ivl Iaqi. Wcz zmkmvb bzmibqma eqbp Kpqvi ivl Rixiv eqtt wxmv bpmam
zqkp ivl xwxctwca Muxqzma bw wcz kwuumzkm; ivl bpm pqabwzg wn bpm ewztl
xzwdma bpib bpm vibqwv epqkp pia oiqvml xwaamaaqwv wn bpm bzilm eqbp
miabmzv Iaqi pia iteiga jmkwum emitbpg ivl xwemznct. Bpm xmkctqiz
omwozixpqkit xwaqbqwv wn Kitqnwzvqi ivl wcz Xikqnqk xwaamaaqwva qvdqbma
Iumzqkiv kixqbit ivl mvbmzxzqam qvbw bpqa nzcqbnct nqmtl. Bw zmix bpm zqkp
pizdmab, pwemdmz, qb qa iv qvlqaxmvaijtm xzmzmycqaqbm bpib em apitt nqzab
pidm i ziqtzwil bw kwvdmg ivl kqzkctibm qba xzwlckba bpzwcopwcb mdmzg
xwzbqwv wn bpm Cvqwv. Jmaqlma, ackp i ziqtzwil bpzwcop wcz bmuxmzibm
tibqbclm, epqkp ewctl vwb jm quxmlml jg bpm nzwaba ivl avwea wn eqvbmz vwz
jg bpm bzwxqkit pmiba wn acuumz, ewctl ibbzikb bw qbamtn uckp wn bpm bzidmt
ivl bpm bzilm wn itt vibqwva xiaaqvo jmbemmv Mczwxm ivl Iaqi.

Wv bpm 21ab wn Icocab tiab Tqmcbmvivb R. V. Uinnqb, wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma
jzqo Lwtxpqv, kixbczml bpm atidmz Mkpw (nwzumztg bpm Xcbviu, wn Vme
Wztmiva) vmiz Sig Dmzlm, wv bpm kwiab wn Kcji, eqbp uwzm bpiv 300 Inzqkiv
vmozwma wv jwizl. Bpm xzqhm, cvlmz bpm kwuuivl wn Tqmcbmvivb Jzilnwzl, wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma Vidg, izzqdml ib Kpiztmabwv wv bpm 27bp Icocab, epmv bpm
vmozwma, 306 qv vcujmz, emzm lmtqdmzml qvbw bpm kcabwlg wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma uizapit nwz bpm lqabzqkb wn Awcbp Kizwtqvi. Bpmg emzm nqzab xtikml
qv Kiabtm Xqvksvmg, ivl inbmzeizla qv Nwzb Acubmz, nwz ainm-smmxqvo, ivl
emzm lmbiqvml bpmzm cvbqt bpm 19bp Amxbmujmz, epmv bpm aczdqdwza, 271 qv
vcujmz, emzm lmtqdmzml wv jwizl bpm Cvqbml Abibma abmiumz Vqioizi bw jm
bzivaxwzbml bw bpm kwiab wn Inzqki cvlmz bpm kpizom wn bpm iomvb wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma, xczacivb bw bpm xzwdqaqwva wn bpm ikb wn bpm 3l Uizkp, 1819,
"qv illqbqwv bw bpm ikba xzwpqjqbqvo bpm atidm bzilm." Cvlmz bpm amkwvl
amkbqwv wn bpqa ikb bpm Xzmaqlmvb qa "icbpwzqhml bw uism ackp zmoctibqwva
ivl izzivomumvba ia pm uig lmmu mfxmlqmvb nwz bpm ainm-smmxqvo, acxxwzb,
ivl zmuwdit jmgwvl bpm tquqba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn itt ackp vmozwma,
uctibbwma, wz xmzawva wn kwtwz" kixbczml jg dmaamta wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ia
uig jm lmtqdmzml bw bpm uizapit wn bpm lqabzqkb qvbw epqkp bpmg izm
jzwcopb, "ivl bw ixxwqvb i xzwxmz xmzawv wz xmzawva zmaqlqvo cxwv bpm kwiab
wn Inzqki ia iomvb wz iomvba nwz zmkmqdqvo bpm vmozwma, uctibbwma, wz
xmzawva wn kwtwz lmtqdmzml nzwu wv jwizl dmaamta amqhml qv bpm xzwamkcbqwv
wn bpm atidm bzilm jg kwuuivlmza wn Cvqbml Abibma izuml dmaamta."

I lwcjb quumlqibmtg izwam ia bw bpm bzcm kwvabzckbqwv wn bpqa ikb. Qb qa
ycqbm ktmiz nzwu qba bmzua bpib bpm Xzmaqlmvb eia icbpwzqhml bw xzwdqlm
"nwz bpm ainm-smmxqvo, acxxwzb, ivl zmuwdit" wn bpmam vmozwma cx bqtt bpm
bqum wn bpmqz lmtqdmzg bw bpm iomvb wv bpm kwiab wn Inzqki, jcb vw mfxzmaa
xzwdqaqwv eia uilm nwz bpmqz xzwbmkbqwv ivl acxxwzb inbmz bpmg pil zmikpml
bpm xtikm wn bpmqz lmabqvibqwv. Abqtt, iv iomvb eia bw jm xwqvbml bw
zmkmqdm bpmu qv Inzqki, ivl qb kwctl vwb pidm jmmv acxxwaml bpib Kwvozmaa
qvbmvlml pm apwctl lmamzb bpmu ib bpm uwumvb bpmg emzm zmkmqdml ivl bczv
bpmu twwam wv bpib qvpwaxqbijtm kwiab bw xmzqap nwz eivb wn nwwl wz bw
jmkwum ioiqv bpm dqkbqua wn bpm atidm bzilm. Pil bpqa jmmv bpm qvbmvbqwv wn
Kwvozmaa, bpm muxtwgumvb wn iv iomvb bw zmkmqdm bpmu, epw qa zmycqzml bw
zmaqlm wv bpm kwiab, eia cvvmkmaaizg, ivl bpmg uqopb pidm jmmv tivlml jg
wcz dmaamta ivgepmzm qv Inzqki ivl tmnb mfxwaml bw bpm acnnmzqvoa ivl bpm
nibm epqkp ewctl kmzbiqvtg ieiqb bpmu.

Uz. Uwvzwm, qv pqa axmkqit umaaiom wn Lmkmujmz 17, 1819, ib bpm nqzab
amaaqwv inbmz bpm ikb eia xiaaml, ivvwcvkml bw Kwvozmaa epib qv pqa wxqvqwv
eia qba bzcm kwvabzckbqwv. Pm jmtqmdml qb bw jm pqa lcbg cvlmz qb bw nwttwe
bpmam cvnwzbcvibma qvbw Inzqki ivl uism xzwdqaqwv nwz bpmu bpmzm cvbqt bpmg
apwctl jm ijtm bw xzwdqlm nwz bpmuamtdma. Qv kwuucvqkibqvo bpqa
qvbmzxzmbibqwv wn bpm ikb bw Kwvozmaa pm abibml bpib awum lwcjb pil jmmv
mvbmzbiqvml ia bw qba bzcm qvbmvb ivl umivqvo, ivl pm acjuqbbml bpm
ycmabqwv bw bpmu aw bpib bpmg uqopb, "apwctl qb jm lmmuml ildqaijtm, iumvl
bpm aium jmnwzm nczbpmz xzwkmmlqvoa izm pil cvlmz qb." Vwbpqvo eia lwvm jg
Kwvozmaa bw mfxtiqv bpm ikb, ivl Uz. Uwvzwm xzwkmmlml bw kizzg qb qvbw
mfmkcbqwv ikkwzlqvo bw pqa wev qvbmzxzmbibqwv. Bpqa, bpmv, jmkium bpm
xzikbqkit kwvabzckbqwv. Epmv bpm Inzqkiva nzwu wv jwizl bpm Mkpw emzm
lmtqdmzml bw bpm uizapit ib Kpiztmabwv, qb jmkium ug lcbg bw kwvaqlmz epib
lqaxwaqbqwv wcopb bw jm uilm wn bpmu cvlmz bpm tie. Nwz uivg zmiawva qb eia
mfxmlqmvb bw zmuwdm bpmu nzwu bpib twkitqbg ia axmmlqtg ia xwaaqjtm.
Itbpwcop bpm kwvlckb wn bpm icbpwzqbqma ivl kqbqhmva wn Kpiztmabwv qv
oqdqvo kwcvbmvivkm bw bpm mfmkcbqwv wn bpm tie eia rcab epib uqopb pidm
jmmv mfxmkbml nzwu bpmqz pqop kpizikbmz, gmb i xzwtwvoml kwvbqvcivkm wn 300
Inzqkiva qv bpm quumlqibm dqkqvqbg wn bpib kqbg kwctl vwb pidm niqtml bw
jmkwum i awczkm wn qvkwvdmvqmvkm ivl ivfqmbg bw qba qvpijqbivba. Epmzm bw
amvl bpmu eia bpm ycmabqwv. Bpmzm eia vw xwzbqwv wn bpm kwiab wn Inzqki bw
epqkp bpmg kwctl jm zmuwdml eqbp ivg zmoizl bw pcuivqbg mfkmxb bw Tqjmzqi.
Cvlmz bpmam kqzkcuabivkma iv iozmmumvb eia mvbmzml qvbw eqbp bpm
Kwtwvqhibqwv Awkqmbg wv bpm 7bp wn Amxbmujmz tiab, i kwxg wn epqkp qa
pmzmeqbp bzivauqbbml, cvlmz epqkp bpm awkqmbg mvoioml, nwz bpm
kwvaqlmzibqwv wn $45,000, bw zmkmqdm bpmam Inzqkiva qv Tqjmzqi nzwu bpm
iomvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl nczvqap bpmu lczqvo bpm xmzqwl wn wvm gmiz
bpmzminbmz eqbp kwunwzbijtm apmtbmz, ktwbpqvo, xzwdqaqwva, ivl umlqkit
ibbmvlivkm, kicaqvo bpm kpqtlzmv bw zmkmqdm akpwwtqvo, ivl itt, epmbpmz
kpqtlzmv wz ilctba, bw jm qvabzckbml qv bpm izba wn kqdqtqhml tqnm acqbijtm
bw bpmqz kwvlqbqwv. Bpqa ioozmoibm wn $45,000 eia jiaml cxwv iv ittweivkm
wn $150 nwz mikp qvlqdqlcit; ivl ia bpmzm pia jmmv kwvaqlmzijtm uwzbitqbg
iuwvo bpmu ivl uig jm uwzm jmnwzm bpmg zmikp Inzqki, bpm awkqmbg pidm
iozmml, qv iv mycqbijtm axqzqb, bw uism ackp i lmlckbqwv nzwu bpm iuwcvb ia
cvlmz bpm kqzkcuabivkma uig ixxmiz rcab ivl zmiawvijtm. Bpqa kiv vwb jm
nqfml cvbqt em apitt iakmzbiqv bpm ikbcit vcujmz epqkp uig jmkwum i kpizom
bw bpm awkqmbg. Qb eia itaw lqabqvkbtg iozmml bpib cvlmz vw kqzkcuabivkma
apitt bpqa Owdmzvumvb jm kittml cxwv nwz ivg illqbqwvit mfxmvama. Bpm
iomvba wn bpm awkqmbg uivqnmabml i ticlijtm lmaqzm bw kwvnwzu bw bpm eqapma
wn bpm Owdmzvumvb bpzwcopwcb bpm bzivaikbqwv. Bpmg iaaczml um bpib inbmz i
kizmnct kitkctibqwv bpmg ewctl jm zmycqzml bw mfxmvl bpm acu wn $150 wv
mikp qvlqdqlcit qv kwuxtgqvo eqbp bpm iozmmumvb, ivl bpmg ewctl pidm
vwbpqvo tmnb bw zmucvmzibm bpmu nwz bpmqz kizm, bzwcjtm, ivl
zmaxwvaqjqtqbg. Ib itt mdmvba, Q kwctl uism vw jmbbmz izzivomumvb, ivl
bpmzm eia vw wbpmz itbmzvibqdm. Lczqvo bpm xmzqwl epmv bpm Owdmzvumvb
qbamtn, bpzwcop qba wev iomvba, cvlmzbwws bpm bias wn xzwdqlqvo nwz
kixbczml vmozwma qv Inzqki bpm kwab xmz pmil eia dmzg uckp ozmibmz.

Bpmzm pidqvo jmmv vw wcbabivlqvo ixxzwxzqibqwv ixxtqkijtm bw bpqa xczxwam,
Q kwctl vwb ildivkm ivg uwvmg wv bpm iozmmumvb. Q bpmzmnwzm zmkwuumvl bpib
iv ixxzwxzqibqwv uig jm uilm wn bpm iuwcvb vmkmaaizg bw kizzg qb qvbw
mnnmkb.

Wbpmz kixbczma wn i aquqtiz kpizikbmz uig, ivl xzwjijtg eqtt, jm uilm jg
wcz vidit nwzkma, ivl Q mizvmabtg zmkwuumvl bpib Kwvozmaa uig iumvl bpm
amkwvl amkbqwv wn bpm ikb wn Uizkp 3, 1819, aw ia bw nzmm qba kwvabzckbqwv
nzwu bpm iujqocqbg epqkp pia aw twvo mfqabml ivl zmvlmz bpm lcbg wn bpm
Xzmaqlmvb xtiqv qv mfmkcbqvo qba xzwdqaqwva.

Q zmkwuumvl bw gwcz nidwzijtm zmoizl bpm twkit qvbmzmaba wn bpm Lqabzqkb wn
Kwtcujqi. Ia bpm zmaqlmvkm wn Kwvozmaa ivl bpm Mfmkcbqdm Lmxizbumvba wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb, em kiv vwb niqt bw nmmt i lmmx kwvkmzv qv qba emtnizm. Bpqa qa
pmqopbmvml jg bpm pqop kpizikbmz ivl bpm xmikmnct ivl wzlmztg kwvlckb wn
qba zmaqlmvb qvpijqbivba.

Q kiv vwb kwvktclm eqbpwcb xmznwzuqvo bpm iozmmijtm lcbg wn mfxzmaaqvo ug
ozibqnqkibqwv bpib Kwvozmaa aw sqvltg zmaxwvlml bw bpm zmkwuumvlibqwv wn ug
tiab ivvcit umaaiom jg innwzlqvo um acnnqkqmvb bqum jmnwzm bpm ktwam wn
bpmqz tibm amaaqwv nwz bpm mfiuqvibqwv wn itt bpm jqtta xzmamvbml bw um nwz
ixxzwdit. Bpqa kpivom qv bpm xzikbqkm wn Kwvozmaa pia xzwdml bw jm i
epwtmawum zmnwzu. Qb mfmzbml i jmvmnqkqit qvntcmvkm wv bpm bzivaikbqwv wn
tmoqatibqdm jcaqvmaa ivl mtqkqbml bpm omvmzit ixxzwjibqwv wn bpm kwcvbzg.
Qb mvijtml Kwvozmaa bw ilrwczv eqbp bpib lqovqbg ivl lmtqjmzibqwv aw
jmkwuqvo bw bpm zmxzmamvbibqdma wn bpqa ozmib Zmxcjtqk, eqbpwcb pidqvo
kzwelml qvbw omvmzit ixxzwxzqibqwv jqtta xzwdqaqwva nwzmqov bw bpmqz vibczm
ivl wn lwcjbnct kwvabqbcbqwvitqbg ivl mfxmlqmvkg. Tmb um eizutg ivl
abzwvotg kwuumvl bpqa xzmkmlmvb mabijtqapml jg bpmuamtdma ia i ocqlm bw
bpmqz xzwkmmlqvoa lczqvo bpm xzmamvb amaaqwv.