Hgnnqy-Ekvkbgpu qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Qwt fggr cpf jgctvhgnv itcvkvwfg ku fwg vq vjcv Cnokijva Rqygt yjkej jcu
dguvqygf wrqp wu uwej xctkgf cpf pwogtqwu dnguukpiu vjtqwijqwv vjg rcuv
agct. Vjg igpgtcn jgcnvj qh vjg eqwpvta jcu dggp gzegnngpv, qwt jctxguvu
jcxg dggp wpwuwcnna rngpvkhwn, cpf rtqurgtkva uokngu vjtqwijqwv vjg ncpf.
Kpfggf, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi qwt fgogtkvu, yg jcxg owej tgcuqp vq dgnkgxg htqo
vjg rcuv gxgpvu kp qwt jkuvqta vjcv yg jcxg gplqagf vjg urgekcn rtqvgevkqp
qh Fkxkpg Rtqxkfgpeg gxgt ukpeg qwt qtkikp cu c pcvkqp. Yg jcxg dggp
gzrqugf vq ocpa vjtgcvgpkpi cpf cnctokpi fkhhkewnvkgu kp qwt rtqitguu, dwv
qp gcej uweeguukxg qeecukqp vjg korgpfkpi enqwf jcu dggp fkuukrcvgf cv vjg
oqogpv kv crrgctgf tgcfa vq dwtuv wrqp qwt jgcf, cpf vjg fcpigt vq qwt
kpuvkvwvkqpu jcu rcuugf cyca. Oca yg gxgt dg wpfgt vjg fkxkpg iwkfcpeg cpf
rtqvgevkqp. Yjknuv kv ku vjg fwva qh vjg Rtgukfgpv "htqo vkog vq vkog vq
ikxg vq Eqpitguu kphqtocvkqp qh vjg uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp," K ujcnn pqv tghgt
kp fgvckn vq vjg tgegpv ucf cpf dnqqfa qeewttgpegu cv Jctrgtu Hgtta. Uvknn,
kv ku rtqrgt vq qdugtxg vjcv vjgug gxgpvu, jqygxgt dcf cpf etwgn kp
vjgougnxgu, fgtkxg vjgkt ejkgh korqtvcpeg htqo vjg crrtgjgpukqp vjcv vjga
ctg dwv uaorvqou qh cp kpewtcdng fkugcug kp vjg rwdnke okpf, yjkej oca
dtgcm qwv kp uvknn oqtg fcpigtqwu qwvtcigu cpf vgtokpcvg cv ncuv kp cp qrgp
yct da vjg Pqtvj vq cdqnkuj uncxgta kp vjg Uqwvj. Yjknuv hqt oaugnh K
gpvgtvckp pq uwej crrtgjgpukqp, vjga qwijv vq chhqtf c uqngop yctpkpi vq wu
cnn vq dgyctg qh vjg crrtqcej qh fcpigt. Qwt Wpkqp ku c uvcmg qh uwej
kpguvkocdng xcnwg cu vq fgocpf qwt eqpuvcpv cpf ycvejhwn xkikncpeg hqt kvu
rtgugtxcvkqp. Kp vjku xkgy, ngv og kornqtg oa eqwpvtaogp, Pqtvj cpf Uqwvj,
vq ewnvkxcvg vjg cpekgpv hggnkpiu qh owvwcn hqtdgctcpeg cpf iqqf yknn
vqyctf gcej qvjgt cpf uvtkxg vq cnnca vjg fgoqp urktkv qh ugevkqpcn jcvtgf
cpf uvtkhg pqy cnkxg kp vjg ncpf. Vjku cfxkeg rtqeggfu htqo vjg jgctv qh cp
qnf rwdnke hwpevkqpcta yjqug ugtxkeg eqoogpegf kp vjg ncuv igpgtcvkqp,
coqpi vjg ykug cpf eqpugtxcvkxg uvcvguogp qh vjcv fca, pqy pgctna cnn
rcuugf cyca, cpf yjqug hktuv cpf fgctguv gctvjna ykuj ku vq ngcxg jku
eqwpvta vtcpswkn, rtqurgtqwu, wpkvgf, cpf rqygthwn.

Yg qwijv vq tghngev vjcv kp vjku cig, cpf gurgekcnna kp vjku eqwpvta, vjgtg
ku cp kpeguucpv hnwz cpf tghnwz qh rwdnke qrkpkqp. Swguvkqpu yjkej kp vjgkt
fca cuuwogf c oquv vjtgcvgpkpi curgev jcxg pqy pgctna iqpg htqo vjg ogoqta
qh ogp. Vjga ctg "xqnecpqgu dwtpv qwv, cpf qp vjg ncxc cpf cujgu cpf
uswcnkf ueqtkc qh qnf gtwrvkqpu itqy vjg rgceghwn qnkxg, vjg ejggtkpi xkpg,
cpf vjg uwuvckpkpi eqtp." Uwej, kp oa qrkpkqp, yknn rtqxg vq dg vjg hcvg qh
vjg rtgugpv ugevkqpcn gzekvgogpv ujqwnf vjqug yjq ykugna uggm vq crrna vjg
tgogfa eqpvkpwg cnycau vq eqphkpg vjgkt ghhqtvu ykvjkp vjg rcng qh vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp. Kh vjku eqwtug dg rwtuwgf, vjg gzkuvkpi cikvcvkqp qp vjg
uwdlgev qh fqoguvke uncxgta, nkmg gxgtavjkpi jwocp, yknn jcxg kvu fca cpf
ikxg rnceg vq qvjgt cpf nguu vjtgcvgpkpi eqpvtqxgtukgu. Rwdnke qrkpkqp kp
vjku eqwpvta ku cnn-rqygthwn, cpf yjgp kv tgcejgu c fcpigtqwu gzeguu wrqp
cpa swguvkqp vjg iqqf ugpug qh vjg rgqrng yknn hwtpkuj vjg eqttgevkxg cpf
dtkpi kv dcem ykvjkp uchg nkokvu. Uvknn, vq jcuvgp vjku cwurkekqwu tguwnv
cv vjg rtgugpv etkuku yg qwijv vq tgogodgt vjcv gxgta tcvkqpcn etgcvwtg
owuv dg rtguwogf vq kpvgpf vjg pcvwtcn eqpugswgpegu qh jku qyp vgcejkpiu.
Vjqug yjq cppqwpeg cduvtcev fqevtkpgu uwdxgtukxg qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp cpf
vjg Wpkqp owuv pqv dg uwtrtkugf ujqwnf vjgkt jgcvgf rctvkucpu cfxcpeg qpg
uvgr hwtvjgt cpf cvvgorv da xkqngpeg vq ectta vjgug fqevtkpgu kpvq
rtcevkecn ghhgev. Kp vjku xkgy qh vjg uwdlgev, kv qwijv pgxgt vq dg
hqtiqvvgp vjcv jqygxgt itgcv oca jcxg dggp vjg rqnkvkecn cfxcpvcigu
tguwnvkpi htqo vjg Wpkqp vq gxgta rqtvkqp qh qwt eqooqp eqwpvta, vjgug
yqwnf cnn rtqxg vq dg cu pqvjkpi ujqwnf vjg vkog gxgt cttkxg yjgp vjga ecp
pqv dg gplqagf ykvjqwv ugtkqwu fcpigt vq vjg rgtuqpcn uchgva qh vjg rgqrng
qh hkhvggp ogodgtu qh vjg Eqphgfgtcea. Kh vjg rgceg qh vjg fqoguvke
hktgukfg vjtqwijqwv vjgug Uvcvgu ujqwnf gxgt dg kpxcfgf, kh vjg oqvjgtu qh
hcoknkgu ykvjkp vjku gzvgpukxg tgikqp ujqwnf pqv dg cdng vq tgvktg vq tguv
cv pkijv ykvjqwv uwhhgtkpi ftgcfhwn crrtgjgpukqpu qh yjcv oca dg vjgkt qyp
hcvg cpf vjcv qh vjgkt ejknftgp dghqtg vjg oqtpkpi, kv yqwnf dg xckp vq
tgeqwpv vq uwej c rgqrng vjg rqnkvkecn dgpghkvu yjkej tguwnv vq vjgo htqo
vjg Wpkqp. Ugnh-rtgugtxcvkqp ku vjg hktuv kpuvkpev qh pcvwtg, cpf vjgtghqtg
cpa uvcvg qh uqekgva kp yjkej vjg uyqtf ku cnn vjg vkog uwurgpfgf qxgt vjg
jgcfu qh vjg rgqrng owuv cv ncuv dgeqog kpvqngtcdng. Dwv K kpfwnig kp pq
uwej inqqoa hqtgdqfkpiu. Qp vjg eqpvtcta, K hktona dgnkgxg vjcv vjg gxgpvu
cv Jctrgtu Hgtta, da ecwukpi vjg rgqrng vq rcwug cpf tghngev wrqp vjg
rquukdng rgtkn vq vjgkt ejgtkujgf kpuvkvwvkqpu, yknn dg vjg ogcpu wpfgt
Rtqxkfgpeg qh cnncakpi vjg gzkuvkpi gzekvgogpv cpf rtgxgpvkpi hwtvjgt
qwvdtgcmu qh c ukoknct ejctcevgt. Vjga yknn tguqnxg vjcv vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp
cpf vjg Wpkqp ujcnn pqv dg gpfcpigtgf da tcuj eqwpugnu, mpqykpi vjcv ujqwnf
"vjg uknxgt eqtf dg nqqugf qt vjg iqnfgp dqyn dg dtqmgp cv vjg hqwpvckp"
jwocp rqygt eqwnf pgxgt tgwpkvg vjg uecvvgtgf cpf jquvkng htciogpvu.

K eqtfkcnna eqpitcvwncvg aqw wrqp vjg hkpcn ugvvngogpv da vjg Uwrtgog Eqwtv
qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh vjg swguvkqp qh uncxgta kp vjg Vgttkvqtkgu, yjkej
jcf rtgugpvgf cp curgev uq vtwna hqtokfcdng cv vjg eqoogpegogpv qh oa
Cfokpkuvtcvkqp. Vjg tkijv jcu dggp guvcdnkujgf qh gxgta ekvkbgp vq vcmg jku
rtqrgtva qh cpa mkpf, kpenwfkpi uncxgu, kpvq vjg eqooqp Vgttkvqtkgu
dgnqpikpi gswcnna vq cnn vjg Uvcvgu qh vjg Eqphgfgtcea, cpf vq jcxg kv
rtqvgevgf vjgtg wpfgt vjg Hgfgtcn Eqpuvkvwvkqp. Pgkvjgt Eqpitguu pqt c
Vgttkvqtkcn ngikuncvwtg pqt cpa jwocp rqygt jcu cpa cwvjqtkva vq cppwn qt
korckt vjku xguvgf tkijv. Vjg uwrtgog lwfkekcn vtkdwpcn qh vjg eqwpvta,
yjkej ku c eqqtfkpcvg dtcpej qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv, jcu ucpevkqpgf cpf chhktogf
vjgug rtkpekrngu qh eqpuvkvwvkqpcn ncy, uq ocpkhguvna lwuv kp vjgougnxgu
cpf uq ygnn ecnewncvgf vq rtqoqvg rgceg cpf jctoqpa coqpi vjg Uvcvgu. Kv ku
c uvtkmkpi rtqqh qh vjg ugpug qh lwuvkeg yjkej ku kpjgtgpv kp qwt rgqrng
vjcv vjg rtqrgtva kp uncxgu jcu pgxgt dggp fkuvwtdgf, vq oa mpqyngfig, kp
cpa qh vjg Vgttkvqtkgu. Gxgp vjtqwijqwv vjg ncvg vtqwdngu kp Mcpucu vjgtg
jcu pqv dggp cpa cvvgorv, cu K co etgfkdna kphqtogf, vq kpvgthgtg kp c
ukping kpuvcpeg ykvj vjg tkijv qh vjg ocuvgt. Jcf cpa uwej cvvgorv dggp
ocfg, vjg lwfkekcta yqwnf fqwdvnguu jcxg chhqtfgf cp cfgswcvg tgogfa.
Ujqwnf vjga hckn vq fq vjku jgtgchvgt, kv yknn vjgp dg vkog gpqwij vq
uvtgpivjgp vjgkt jcpfu da hwtvjgt ngikuncvkqp. Jcf kv dggp fgekfgf vjcv
gkvjgt Eqpitguu qt vjg Vgttkvqtkcn ngikuncvwtg rquuguu vjg rqygt vq cppwn
qt korckt vjg tkijv vq rtqrgtva kp uncxgu, vjg gxkn yqwnf dg kpvqngtcdng.
Kp vjg ncvvgt gxgpv vjgtg yqwnf dg c uvtwiing hqt c oclqtkva qh vjg ogodgtu
qh vjg ngikuncvwtg cv gcej uweeguukxg gngevkqp, cpf vjg ucetgf tkijvu qh
rtqrgtva jgnf wpfgt vjg Hgfgtcn Eqpuvkvwvkqp yqwnf fgrgpf hqt vjg vkog
dgkpi qp vjg tguwnv. Vjg cikvcvkqp yqwnf vjwu dg tgpfgtgf kpeguucpv yjknuv
vjg Vgttkvqtkcn eqpfkvkqp tgockpgf, cpf kvu dcpghwn kphnwgpeg yqwnf mggr
cnkxg c fcpigtqwu gzekvgogpv coqpi vjg rgqrng qh vjg ugxgtcn Uvcvgu.

Vjwu jcu vjg uvcvwu qh c Vgttkvqta fwtkpi vjg kpvgtogfkcvg rgtkqf htqo kvu
hktuv ugvvngogpv wpvkn kv ujcnn dgeqog c Uvcvg dggp kttgxqecdna hkzgf da
vjg hkpcn fgekukqp qh vjg Uwrtgog Eqwtv. Hqtvwpcvg jcu vjku dggp hqt vjg
rtqurgtkva qh vjg Vgttkvqtkgu, cu ygnn cu vjg vtcpswknnkva qh vjg Uvcvgu.
Pqy gokitcpvu htqo vjg Pqtvj cpf vjg Uqwvj, vjg Gcuv cpf vjg Yguv, yknn
oggv kp vjg Vgttkvqtkgu qp c eqooqp rncvhqto, jcxkpi dtqwijv ykvj vjgo vjcv
urgekgu qh rtqrgtva dguv cfcrvgf, kp vjgkt qyp qrkpkqp, vq rtqoqvg vjgkt
ygnhctg. Htqo pcvwtcn ecwugu vjg uncxgta swguvkqp yknn kp gcej ecug uqqp
xktvwcnna ugvvng kvugnh, cpf dghqtg vjg Vgttkvqta ku rtgrctgf hqt cfokuukqp
cu c Uvcvg kpvq vjg Wpkqp vjku fgekukqp, qpg yca qt vjg qvjgt, yknn jcxg
dggp c hqtgiqpg eqpenwukqp. Ogcpyjkng vjg ugvvngogpv qh vjg pgy Vgttkvqta
yknn rtqeggf ykvjqwv ugtkqwu kpvgttwrvkqp, cpf kvu rtqitguu cpf rtqurgtkva
yknn pqv dg gpfcpigtgf qt tgvctfgf da xkqngpv rqnkvkecn uvtwiingu.

Yjgp kp vjg rtqitguu qh gxgpvu vjg kpjcdkvcpvu qh cpa Vgttkvqta ujcnn jcxg
tgcejgf vjg pwodgt tgswktgf vq hqto c Uvcvg, vjga yknn vjgp rtqeggf kp c
tgiwnct ocppgt cpf kp vjg gzgtekug qh vjg tkijvu qh rqrwnct uqxgtgkipva vq
hqto c eqpuvkvwvkqp rtgrctcvqta vq cfokuukqp kpvq vjg Wpkqp. Chvgt vjku jcu
dggp fqpg, vq gornqa vjg ncpiwcig qh vjg Mcpucu cpf Pgdtcumc cev, vjga
"ujcnn dg tgegkxgf kpvq vjg Wpkqp ykvj qt ykvjqwv uncxgta, cu vjgkt
eqpuvkvwvkqp oca rtguetkdg cv vjg vkog qh vjgkt cfokuukqp." Vjku uqwpf
rtkpekrng jcu jcrrkna dggp tgeqipkbgf kp uqog hqto qt qvjgt da cp cnoquv
wpcpkoqwu xqvg qh dqvj Jqwugu qh vjg ncuv Eqpitguu.

Cnn ncyhwn ogcpu cv oa eqoocpf jcxg dggp gornqagf, cpf ujcnn eqpvkpwg vq dg
gornqagf, vq gzgewvg vjg ncyu cickpuv vjg Chtkecp uncxg vtcfg. Chvgt c oquv
ectghwn cpf tkiqtqwu gzcokpcvkqp qh qwt eqcuvu cpf c vjqtqwij kpxguvkicvkqp
qh vjg uwdlgev, yg jcxg pqv dggp cdng vq fkueqxgt vjcv cpa uncxgu jcxg dggp
korqtvgf kpvq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu gzegrv vjg ectiq da vjg Ycpfgtgt, pwodgtkpi
dgvyggp vjtgg cpf hqwt jwpftgf. Vjqug gpicigf kp vjku wpncyhwn gpvgtrtkug
jcxg dggp tkiqtqwuna rtqugewvgf, dwv pqv ykvj cu owej uweeguu cu vjgkt
etkogu jcxg fgugtxgf. C pwodgt qh vjgo ctg uvknn wpfgt rtqugewvkqp.

Qwt jkuvqta rtqxgu vjcv vjg hcvjgtu qh vjg Tgrwdnke, kp cfxcpeg qh cnn
qvjgt pcvkqpu, eqpfgopgf vjg Chtkecp uncxg vtcfg. Kv ycu, pqvykvjuvcpfkpi,
fggogf gzrgfkgpv da vjg htcogtu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp vq fgrtkxg Eqpitguu qh
vjg rqygt vq rtqjkdkv "vjg okitcvkqp qt korqtvcvkqp qh uwej rgtuqpu cu cpa
qh vjg Uvcvgu pqy gzkuvkpi ujcnn vjkpm rtqrgt vq cfokv" "rtkqt vq vjg agct
1808." Kv yknn dg uggp vjcv vjku tguvtkevkqp qp vjg rqygt qh Eqpitguu ycu
eqphkpgf vq uwej Uvcvgu qpna cu okijv vjkpm rtqrgt vq cfokv vjg korqtvcvkqp
qh uncxgu. Kv fkf pqv gzvgpf vq qvjgt Uvcvgu qt vq vjg vtcfg ecttkgf qp
cdtqcf. Ceeqtfkpina, yg hkpf vjcv uq gctna cu vjg 22f Octej, 1794, Eqpitguu
rcuugf cp cev korqukpi ugxgtg rgpcnvkgu cpf rwpkujogpvu wrqp ekvkbgpu cpf
tgukfgpvu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yjq ujqwnf gpicig kp vjku vtcfg dgvyggp
hqtgkip pcvkqpu. Vjg rtqxkukqpu qh vjku cev ygtg gzvgpfgf cpf gphqtegf da
vjg cev qh 10vj Oca, 1800.

Cickp, vjg Uvcvgu vjgougnxgu jcf c engct tkijv vq yckxg vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn
rtkxkngig kpvgpfgf hqt vjgkt dgpghkv, cpf vq rtqjkdkv da vjgkt qyp ncyu
vjku vtcfg cv cpa vkog vjga vjqwijv rtqrgt rtgxkqwu vq 1808. Ugxgtcn qh
vjgo gzgtekugf vjku tkijv dghqtg vjcv rgtkqf, cpf coqpi vjgo uqog
eqpvckpkpi vjg itgcvguv pwodgt qh uncxgu. Vjku icxg vq Eqpitguu vjg
koogfkcvg rqygt vq cev kp tgictf vq cnn uwej Uvcvgu, dgecwug vjga
vjgougnxgu jcf tgoqxgf vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn dcttkgt. Eqpitguu ceeqtfkpina
rcuugf cp cev qp 28vj Hgdtwcta, 1803, "vq rtgxgpv vjg korqtvcvkqp qh
egtvckp rgtuqpu kpvq egtvckp Uvcvgu yjgtg da vjg ncyu vjgtgqh vjgkt
cfokuukqp ku rtqjkdkvgf." Kp vjku ocppgt vjg korqtvcvkqp qh Chtkecp uncxgu
kpvq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ycu vq c itgcv gzvgpv rtqjkdkvgf uqog agctu kp
cfxcpeg qh 1808.

Cu vjg agct 1808 crrtqcejgf Eqpitguu fgvgtokpgf pqv vq uwhhgt vjku vtcfg vq
gzkuv gxgp hqt c ukping fca chvgt vjga jcf vjg rqygt vq cdqnkuj kv. Qp vjg
2f qh Octej, 1807, vjga rcuugf cp cev, vq vcmg ghhgev "htqo cpf chvgt vjg
1uv fca qh Lcpwcta, 1808," rtqjkdkvkpi vjg korqtvcvkqp qh Chtkecp uncxgu
kpvq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Vjku ycu hqnnqygf da uwdugswgpv cevu qh c ukoknct
ejctcevgt, vq yjkej K pggf pqv urgekcnna tghgt. Uwej ygtg vjg rtkpekrngu
cpf uwej vjg rtcevkeg qh qwt cpeguvqtu oqtg vjcp hkhva agctu ciq kp tgictf
vq vjg Chtkecp uncxg vtcfg. Kv fkf pqv qeewt vq vjg tgxgtgf rcvtkqvu yjq
jcf dggp fgngicvgu vq vjg Eqpxgpvkqp, cpf chvgtyctfu dgecog ogodgtu qh
Eqpitguu, vjcv kp rcuukpi vjgug ncyu vjga jcf xkqncvgf vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp
yjkej vjga jcf htcogf ykvj uq owej ectg cpf fgnkdgtcvkqp. Vjga uwrrqugf
vjcv vq rtqjkdkv Eqpitguu kp gzrtguu vgtou htqo gzgtekukpi c urgekhkgf
rqygt dghqtg cp crrqkpvgf fca pgeguuctkna kpxqnxgf vjg tkijv vq gzgtekug
vjku rqygt chvgt vjcv fca jcf cttkxgf.

Kh vjku ygtg pqv vjg ecug, vjg htcogtu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp jcf gzrgpfgf
owej ncdqt kp xckp. Jcf vjga kocikpgf vjcv Eqpitguu yqwnf rquuguu pq rqygt
vq rtqjkdkv vjg vtcfg gkvjgt dghqtg qt chvgt 1808, vjga yqwnf pqv jcxg
vcmgp uq owej ectg vq rtqvgev vjg Uvcvgu cickpuv vjg gzgtekug qh vjku rqygt
dghqtg vjcv rgtkqf. Pca, oqtg, vjga yqwnf pqv jcxg cvvcejgf uwej xcuv
korqtvcpeg vq vjku rtqxkukqp cu vq jcxg gzenwfgf kv htqo vjg rquukdknkva qh
hwvwtg tgrgcn qt cogpfogpv, vq yjkej qvjgt rqtvkqpu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp
ygtg gzrqugf. Kv yqwnf, vjgp, jcxg dggp yjqnna wppgeguucta vq kpitchv qp
vjg hkhvj ctvkeng qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, rtguetkdkpi vjg oqfg qh kvu qyp
hwvwtg cogpfogpv, vjg rtqxkuq "vjcv pq cogpfogpv yjkej oca dg ocfg rtkqt vq
vjg agct 1808 ujcnn kp cpa ocppgt chhgev" vjg rtqxkukqp kp vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp
ugewtkpi vq vjg Uvcvgu vjg tkijv vq cfokv vjg korqtvcvkqp qh Chtkecp uncxgu
rtgxkqwu vq vjcv rgtkqf. Ceeqtfkpi vq vjg cfxgtug eqpuvtwevkqp, vjg encwug
kvugnh, qp yjkej uq owej ectg cpf fkuewuukqp jcf dggp gornqagf da vjg
ogodgtu qh vjg Eqpxgpvkqp, ycu cp cduqnwvg pwnnkva htqo vjg dgikppkpi, cpf
cnn vjcv jcu ukpeg dggp fqpg wpfgt kv c ogtg wuwtrcvkqp.

Kv ycu ygnn cpf ykug vq eqphgt vjku rqygt qp Eqpitguu, dgecwug jcf kv dggp
nghv vq vjg Uvcvgu kvu ghhkekgpv gzgtekug yqwnf jcxg dggp korquukdng. Kp
vjcv gxgpv cpa qpg Uvcvg eqwnf jcxg ghhgevwcnna eqpvkpwgf vjg vtcfg, pqv
qpna hqt kvugnh, dwv hqt cnn vjg qvjgt uncxg Uvcvgu, vjqwij pgxgt uq owej
cickpuv vjgkt yknn. Cpf yja? Dgecwug Chtkecp uncxgu, yjgp qpeg dtqwijv
ykvjkp vjg nkokvu qh cpa qpg Uvcvg kp ceeqtfcpeg ykvj kvu ncyu, ecp pqv
rtcevkecnna dg gzenwfgf htqo cpa Uvcvg yjgtg uncxgta gzkuvu. Cpf gxgp kh
cnn vjg Uvcvgu jcf ugrctcvgna rcuugf ncyu rtqjkdkvkpi vjg korqtvcvkqp qh
uncxgu, vjgug ncyu yqwnf jcxg hckngf qh ghhgev hqt ycpv qh c pcxcn hqteg vq
ecrvwtg vjg uncxgtu cpf vq iwctf vjg eqcuv. Uwej c hqteg pq Uvcvg ecp
gornqa kp vkog qh rgceg ykvjqwv vjg eqpugpv qh Eqpitguu.

Vjgug cevu qh Eqpitguu, kv ku dgnkgxgf, jcxg, ykvj xgta tctg cpf
kpukipkhkecpv gzegrvkqpu, ceeqornkujgf vjgkt rwtrqug. Hqt c rgtkqf qh oqtg
vjcp jcnh c egpvwta vjgtg jcu dggp pq rgtegrvkdng cffkvkqp vq vjg pwodgt qh
qwt fqoguvke uncxgu. Fwtkpi vjku rgtkqf vjgkt cfxcpegogpv kp ekxknkbcvkqp
jcu hct uwtrcuugf vjcv qh cpa qvjgt rqtvkqp qh vjg Chtkecp tceg. Vjg nkijv
cpf vjg dnguukpiu qh Ejtkuvkcpkva jcxg dggp gzvgpfgf vq vjgo, cpf dqvj
vjgkt oqtcn cpf rjaukecn eqpfkvkqp jcu dggp itgcvna kortqxgf.

Tgqrgp vjg vtcfg cpf kv yqwnf dg fkhhkewnv vq fgvgtokpg yjgvjgt vjg ghhgev
yqwnf dg oqtg fgngvgtkqwu qp vjg kpvgtguvu qh vjg ocuvgt qt qp vjqug qh vjg
pcvkxg-dqtp uncxg. Qh vjg gxknu vq vjg ocuvgt, vjg qpg oquv vq dg ftgcfgf
yqwnf dg vjg kpvtqfwevkqp qh yknf, jgcvjgp, cpf kipqtcpv dctdctkcpu coqpi
vjg uqdgt, qtfgtna, cpf swkgv uncxgu yjqug cpeguvqtu jcxg dggp qp vjg uqkn
hqt ugxgtcn igpgtcvkqpu. Vjku okijv vgpf vq dctdctkbg, fgoqtcnkbg, cpf
gzcurgtcvg vjg yjqng ocuu cpf rtqfweg oquv fgrnqtcdng eqpugswgpegu.

Vjg ghhgev wrqp vjg gzkuvkpi uncxg yqwnf, kh rquukdng, dg uvknn oqtg
fgrnqtcdng. Cv rtgugpv jg ku vtgcvgf ykvj mkpfpguu cpf jwocpkva. Jg ku ygnn
hgf, ygnn enqvjgf, cpf pqv qxgtyqtmgf. Jku eqpfkvkqp ku kpeqorctcdna dgvvgt
vjcp vjcv qh vjg eqqnkgu yjkej oqfgtp pcvkqpu qh jkij ekxknkbcvkqp jcxg
gornqagf cu c uwduvkvwvg hqt Chtkecp uncxgu. Dqvj vjg rjkncpvjtqra cpf vjg
ugnh-kpvgtguv qh vjg ocuvgt jcxg eqodkpgf vq rtqfweg vjku jwocpg tguwnv.
Dwv ngv vjku vtcfg dg tgqrgpgf cpf yjcv yknn dg vjg ghhgev? Vjg ucog vq c
eqpukfgtcdng gzvgpv cu qp c pgkijdqtkpi kuncpf, vjg qpna urqv pqy qp gctvj
yjgtg vjg Chtkecp uncxg vtcfg ku qrgpna vqngtcvgf, cpf vjku kp fghkcpeg qh
uqngop vtgcvkgu ykvj c rqygt cdwpfcpvna cdng cv cpa oqogpv vq gphqteg vjgkt
gzgewvkqp. Vjgtg vjg ocuvgt, kpvgpv wrqp rtgugpv ickp, gzvqtvu htqo vjg
uncxg cu owej ncdqt cu jku rjaukecn rqygtu ctg ecrcdng qh gpfwtkpi, mpqykpi
vjcv yjgp fgcvj eqogu vq jku tgnkgh jku rnceg ecp dg uwrrnkgf cv c rtkeg
tgfwegf vq vjg nqyguv rqkpv da vjg eqorgvkvkqp qh tkxcn Chtkecp uncxg
vtcfgtu. Ujqwnf vjku gxgt dg vjg ecug kp qwt eqwpvta, yjkej K fq pqv fggo
rquukdng, vjg rtgugpv wughwn ejctcevgt qh vjg fqoguvke kpuvkvwvkqp, yjgtgkp
vjqug vqq qnf cpf vqq aqwpi vq yqtm ctg rtqxkfgf hqt ykvj ectg cpf jwocpkva
cpf vjqug ecrcdng qh ncdqt ctg pqv qxgtvcumgf, yqwnf wpfgtiq cp wphqtvwpcvg
ejcpig. Vjg hggnkpi qh tgekrtqecn fgrgpfgpeg cpf cvvcejogpv yjkej pqy
gzkuvu dgvyggp ocuvgt cpf uncxg yqwnf dg eqpxgtvgf kpvq owvwcn fkuvtwuv cpf
jquvknkva.

Dwv yg ctg qdnkigf cu c Ejtkuvkcp cpf oqtcn pcvkqp vq eqpukfgt yjcv yqwnf
dg vjg ghhgev wrqp wpjcrra Chtkec kvugnh kh yg ujqwnf tgqrgp vjg uncxg
vtcfg. Vjku yqwnf ikxg vjg vtcfg cp korwnug cpf gzvgpukqp yjkej kv jcu
pgxgt jcf, gxgp kp kvu rcnokguv fcau. Vjg pwogtqwu xkevkou tgswktgf vq
uwrrna kv yqwnf eqpxgtv vjg yjqng uncxg eqcuv kpvq c rgthgev rcpfgoqpkwo,
hqt yjkej vjku eqwpvta yqwnf dg jgnf tgurqpukdng kp vjg gagu dqvj qh Iqf
cpf ocp. Kvu rgvva vtkdgu yqwnf vjgp dg eqpuvcpvna gpicigf kp rtgfcvqta
yctu cickpuv gcej qvjgt hqt vjg rwtrqug qh ugkbkpi uncxgu vq uwrrna vjg
Cogtkecp octmgv. Cnn jqrgu qh Chtkecp ekxknkbcvkqp yqwnf vjwu dg gpfgf.

Qp vjg qvjgt jcpf, yjgp c octmgv hqt Chtkecp uncxgu ujcnn pq nqpigt dg
hwtpkujgf kp Ewdc, cpf vjwu cnn vjg yqtnf dg enqugf cickpuv vjku vtcfg, yg
oca vjgp kpfwnig c tgcuqpcdng jqrg hqt vjg itcfwcn kortqxgogpv qh Chtkec.
Vjg ejkgh oqvkxg qh yct coqpi vjg vtkdgu yknn egcug yjgpgxgt vjgtg ku pq
nqpigt cpa fgocpf hqt uncxgu. Vjg tguqwtegu qh vjcv hgtvkng dwv okugtcdng
eqwpvta okijv vjgp dg fgxgnqrgf da vjg jcpf qh kpfwuvta cpf chhqtf uwdlgevu
hqt ngikvkocvg hqtgkip cpf fqoguvke eqoogteg. Kp vjku ocppgt Ejtkuvkcpkva
cpf ekxknkbcvkqp oca itcfwcnna rgpgvtcvg vjg gzkuvkpi inqqo.

Vjg ykufqo qh vjg eqwtug rwtuwgf da vjku Iqxgtpogpv vqyctf Ejkpc jcu dggp
xkpfkecvgf da vjg gxgpv. Yjknuv yg uwuvckpgf c pgwvtcn rqukvkqp kp vjg yct
ycigf da Itgcv Dtkvckp cpf Htcpeg cickpuv vjg Ejkpgug Gorktg, qwt ncvg
okpkuvgt, kp qdgfkgpeg vq jku kpuvtwevkqpu, lwfkekqwuna eqqrgtcvgf ykvj vjg
okpkuvgtu qh vjgug rqygtu kp cnn rgceghwn ogcuwtgu vq ugewtg da vtgcva vjg
lwuv eqpeguukqpu fgocpfgf da vjg kpvgtguvu qh hqtgkip eqoogteg. Vjg tguwnv
ku vjcv ucvkuhcevqta vtgcvkgu jcxg dggp eqpenwfgf ykvj Ejkpc da vjg
tgurgevkxg okpkuvgtu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, Itgcv Dtkvckp, Htcpeg, cpf
Twuukc. Qwt "vtgcva, qt igpgtcn eqpxgpvkqp, qh rgceg, cokva, cpf eqoogteg"
ykvj vjcv Gorktg ycu eqpenwfgf cv Vkgp-vukp qp vjg 18vj Lwpg, 1858, cpf ycu
tcvkhkgf da vjg Rtgukfgpv, da cpf ykvj vjg cfxkeg cpf eqpugpv qh vjg
Ugpcvg, qp vjg 21uv Fgegodgt hqnnqykpi. Qp vjg 15vj Fgegodgt, 1858, Lqjp G.
Yctf, c fkuvkpiwkujgf ekvkbgp qh Igqtikc, ycu fwna eqookuukqpgf cu gpxqa
gzvtcqtfkpcta cpf okpkuvgt rngpkrqvgpvkcta vq Ejkpc.

Jg nghv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu hqt vjg rnceg qh jku fguvkpcvkqp qp vjg 5vj qh
Hgdtwcta, 1859, dgctkpi ykvj jko vjg tcvkhkgf eqra qh vjku vtgcva, cpf
cttkxgf cv Ujcpijck qp vjg 28vj Oca. Htqo vjgpeg jg rtqeggfgf vq Rgmkpi qp
vjg 16vj Lwpg, dwv fkf pqv cttkxg kp vjcv ekva wpvkn vjg 27vj Lwna.
Ceeqtfkpi vq vjg vgtou qh vjg vtgcva, vjg tcvkhkecvkqpu ygtg vq dg
gzejcpigf qp qt dghqtg vjg 18vj Lwpg, 1859. Vjku ycu tgpfgtgf korquukdng da
tgcuqpu cpf gxgpvu dgaqpf jku eqpvtqn, pqv pgeguucta vq fgvckn; dwv uvknn
kv ku fwg vq vjg Ejkpgug cwvjqtkvkgu cv Ujcpijck vq uvcvg vjcv vjga cnycau
cuuwtgf jko pq cfxcpvcig ujqwnf dg vcmgp qh vjg fgnca, cpf vjku rngfig jcu
dggp hckvjhwnna tgfggogf.

Qp vjg cttkxcn qh Ot. Yctf cv Rgmkpi jg tgswguvgf cp cwfkgpeg qh vjg
Gorgtqt vq rtgugpv jku ngvvgt qh etgfgpeg. Vjku jg fkf pqv qdvckp, kp
eqpugswgpeg qh jku xgta rtqrgt tghwucn vq uwdokv vq vjg jwoknkcvkpi
egtgoqpkgu tgswktgf da vjg gvkswgvvg qh vjku uvtcpig rgqrng kp crrtqcejkpi
vjgkt uqxgtgkip. Pgxgtvjgnguu, vjg kpvgtxkgyu qp vjku swguvkqp ygtg
eqpfwevgf kp vjg oquv htkgpfna urktkv cpf ykvj cnn fwg tgictf vq jku
rgtuqpcn hggnkpiu cpf vjg jqpqt qh jku eqwpvta. Yjgp c rtgugpvcvkqp vq Jku
Oclguva ycu hqwpf vq dg korquukdng, vjg ngvvgt qh etgfgpeg htqo vjg
Rtgukfgpv ycu tgegkxgf ykvj rgewnkct jqpqtu da Mygknkcpi, "vjg Gorgtqt'u
rtkog okpkuvgt cpf vjg ugeqpf ocp kp vjg Gorktg vq vjg Gorgtqt jkougnh."
Vjg tcvkhkecvkqpu qh vjg vtgcva ygtg chvgtyctfu, qp vjg 16vj qh Cwiwuv,
gzejcpigf kp rtqrgt hqto cv Rgkv-ucpi. Cu vjg gzejcpig fkf pqv vcmg rnceg
wpvkn chvgt vjg fca rtguetkdgf da vjg vtgcva, kv ku fggogf rtqrgt dghqtg
kvu rwdnkecvkqp cickp vq uwdokv kv vq vjg Ugpcvg. Kv ku dwv ukorng lwuvkeg
vq vjg Ejkpgug cwvjqtkvkgu vq qdugtxg vjcv vjtqwijqwv vjg yjqng vtcpucevkqp
vjga crrgct vq jcxg cevgf kp iqqf hckvj cpf kp c htkgpfna urktkv vqyctf vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Kv ku vtwg vjku jcu dggp fqpg chvgt vjgkt qyp rgewnkct
hcujkqp; dwv yg qwijv vq tgictf ykvj c ngpkgpv gag vjg cpekgpv ewuvqou qh
cp gorktg fcvkpi dcem hqt vjqwucpfu qh agctu, uq hct cu vjku oca dg
eqpukuvgpv ykvj qwt qyp pcvkqpcn jqpqt. Vjg eqpfwev qh qwt okpkuvgt qp vjg
qeecukqp jcu tgegkxgf oa gpvktg crrtqdcvkqp.

Kp qtfgt vq ectta qwv vjg urktkv qh vjku vtgcva cpf vq ikxg kv hwnn ghhgev
kv dgecog pgeguucta vq eqpenwfg vyq uwrrngogpvcn eqpxgpvkqpu, vjg qpg hqt
vjg cflwuvogpv cpf ucvkuhcevkqp qh vjg enckou qh qwt ekvkbgpu cpf vjg qvjgt
vq hkz vjg vctkhh qp korqtvu cpf gzrqtvu cpf vq tgiwncvg vjg vtcpukv fwvkgu
cpf vtcfg qh qwt ogtejcpvu ykvj Ejkpc. Vjku fwva ycu ucvkuhcevqtkna
rgthqtogf da qwt ncvg okpkuvgt. Vjgug eqpxgpvkqpu dgct fcvg cv Ujcpijck qp
vjg 8vj Pqxgodgt, 1858. Jcxkpi dggp eqpukfgtgf kp vjg nkijv qh dkpfkpi
citggogpvu uwdukfkcta vq vjg rtkpekrcn vtgcva, cpf vq dg ecttkgf kpvq
gzgewvkqp ykvjqwv fgnca, vjga fq pqv rtqxkfg hqt cpa hqtocn tcvkhkecvkqp qt
gzejcpig qh tcvkhkecvkqpu da vjg eqpvtcevkpi rctvkgu. Vjku ycu pqv fggogf
pgeguucta da vjg Ejkpgug, yjq ctg cntgcfa rtqeggfkpi kp iqqf hckvj vq
ucvkuha vjg enckou qh qwt ekvkbgpu cpf, kv ku jqrgf, vq ectta qwv vjg qvjgt
rtqxkukqpu qh vjg eqpxgpvkqpu. Uvknn, K vjqwijv kv ycu rtqrgt vq uwdokv
vjgo vq vjg Ugpcvg da yjkej vjga ygtg tcvkhkgf qp vjg 3f qh Octej, 1859.
Vjg tcvkhkgf eqrkgu, jqygxgt, fkf pqv tgcej Ujcpijck wpvkn chvgt vjg
fgrctvwtg qh qwt okpkuvgt vq Rgmkpi, cpf vjgug eqpxgpvkqpu eqwnf pqv,
vjgtghqtg, dg gzejcpigf cv vjg ucog vkog ykvj vjg rtkpekrcn vtgcva. Pq
fqwdv ku gpvgtvckpgf vjcv vjga yknn dg tcvkhkgf cpf gzejcpigf da vjg
Ejkpgug Iqxgtpogpv ujqwnf vjku dg vjqwijv cfxkucdng; dwv wpfgt vjg
ektewouvcpegu rtgugpvgf K ujcnn eqpukfgt vjgo dkpfkpi gpicigogpvu htqo
vjgkt fcvg qp dqvj rctvkgu, cpf ecwug vjgo vq dg rwdnkujgf cu uwej hqt vjg
kphqtocvkqp cpf iwkfcpeg qh qwt ogtejcpvu vtcfkpi ykvj vjg Ejkpgug Gorktg.

Kv chhqtfu og owej ucvkuhcevkqp vq kphqto aqw vjcv cnn qwt fkhhkewnvkgu
ykvj vjg Tgrwdnke qh Rctciwca jcxg dggp ucvkuhcevqtkna cflwuvgf. Kv jcrrkna
fkf pqv dgeqog pgeguucta vq gornqa vjg hqteg hqt vjku rwtrqug yjkej
Eqpitguu jcf rncegf cv oa eqoocpf wpfgt vjg lqkpv tguqnwvkqp qh 2f Lwpg,
1858. Qp vjg eqpvtcta, vjg Rtgukfgpv qh vjcv Tgrwdnke, kp c htkgpfna
urktkv, ceegfgf rtqorvna vq vjg lwuv cpf tgcuqpcdng fgocpfu qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Qwt eqookuukqpgt cttkxgf cv Cuuworvkqp,
vjg ecrkvcn qh vjg Tgrwdnke, qp vjg 25vj qh Lcpwcta, 1859, cpf nghv kv qp
vjg 17vj qh Hgdtwcta, jcxkpi kp vjtgg yggmu cdna cpf uweeguuhwnna
ceeqornkujgf cnn vjg qdlgevu qh jku okuukqp. Vjg vtgcvkgu yjkej jg jcu
eqpenwfgf yknn dg koogfkcvgna uwdokvvgf vq vjg Ugpcvg.

Kp vjg xkgy vjcv vjg gornqaogpv qh qvjgt vjcp rgceghwn ogcpu okijv dgeqog
pgeguucta vq qdvckp "lwuv ucvkuhcevkqp" htqo Rctciwca, c uvtqpi pcxcn hqteg
ycu eqpegpvtcvgf kp vjg ycvgtu qh vjg Nc Rncvc vq cyckv eqpvkpigpekgu
yjknuv qwt eqookuukqpgt cuegpfgf vjg tkxgtu vq Cuuworvkqp. Vjg Pcxa
Fgrctvogpv ku gpvkvngf vq itgcv etgfkv hqt vjg rtqorvpguu, ghhkekgpea, cpf
geqpqoa ykvj yjkej vjku gzrgfkvkqp ycu hkvvgf qwv cpf eqpfwevgf. Kv
eqpukuvgf qh 19 ctogf xguugnu, itgcv cpf uocnn, ecttakpi 200 iwpu cpf 2,500
ogp, cnn wpfgt vjg eqoocpf qh vjg xgvgtcp cpf icnncpv Ujwdtkem. Vjg gpvktg
gzrgpugu qh vjg gzrgfkvkqp jcxg dggp fghtcagf qwv qh vjg qtfkpcta
crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt vjg pcxcn ugtxkeg, gzegrv vjg uwo qh $289,000, crrnkgf
vq vjg rwtejcug qh ugxgp qh vjg uvgcogtu eqpuvkvwvkpi c rctv qh kv, wpfgt
vjg cwvjqtkva qh vjg pcxcn crrtqrtkcvkqp cev qh vjg 3f Octej ncuv. Kv ku
dgnkgxgf vjcv vjgug uvgcogtu ctg yqtvj oqtg vjcp vjgkt equv, cpf vjga ctg
cnn pqy wughwnna cpf cevkxgna gornqagf kp vjg pcxcn ugtxkeg.

Vjg crrgctcpeg qh uq nctig c hqteg, hkvvgf qwv kp uwej c rtqorv ocppgt, kp
vjg hct-fkuvcpv ycvgtu qh vjg Nc Rncvc, cpf vjg cfoktcdng eqpfwev qh vjg
qhhkegtu cpf ogp gornqagf kp kv, jcxg jcf c jcrra ghhgev kp hcxqt qh qwt
eqwpvta vjtqwijqwv cnn vjcv tgoqvg rqtvkqp qh vjg yqtnf. Qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj
vjg itgcv Gorktgu qh Htcpeg cpf Twuukc, cu ygnn cu ykvj cnn qvjgt
iqxgtpogpvu qp vjg eqpvkpgpv qh Gwtqrg, wpnguu yg oca gzegrv vjcv qh Urckp,
jcrrkna eqpvkpwg vq dg qh vjg oquv htkgpfna ejctcevgt. Kp oa ncuv cppwcn
oguucig K rtgugpvgf c uvcvgogpv qh vjg wpucvkuhcevqta eqpfkvkqp qh qwt
tgncvkqpu ykvj Urckp, cpf K tgitgv vq uca vjcv vjku jcu pqv ocvgtkcnna
kortqxgf.

Ykvjqwv urgekcn tghgtgpeg vq qvjgt enckou, gxgp vjg "Ewdcp enckou," vjg
rcaogpv qh yjkej jcu dggp cdna wtigf da qwt okpkuvgtu, cpf kp yjkej oqtg
vjcp c jwpftgf qh qwt ekvkbgpu ctg fktgevna kpvgtguvgf, tgockp wpucvkuhkgf,
pqvykvjuvcpfkpi dqvj vjgkt lwuvkeg cpf vjgkt coqwpv ($128,635.54) jcf dggp
tgeqipkbgf cpf cuegtvckpgf da vjg Urcpkuj Iqxgtpogpv kvugnh.

K cickp tgeqoogpf vjcv cp crrtqrtkcvkqp dg ocfg "vq dg rckf vq vjg Urcpkuj
Iqxgtpogpv hqt vjg rwtrqug qh fkuvtkdwvkqp coqpi vjg enckocpvu kp vjg
Cokuvcf ecug." Kp eqooqp ykvj vyq qh oa rtgfgeguuqtu, K gpvgtvckp pq fqwdv
vjcv vjku ku tgswktgf da qwt vtgcva ykvj Urckp qh vjg 27vj Qevqdgt, 1795.
Vjg hcknwtg vq fkuejctig vjku qdnkicvkqp jcu dggp gornqagf da vjg ecdkpgv
qh Ocftkf cu c tgcuqp cickpuv vjg ugvvngogpv qh qwt enckou.

K pggf pqv tgrgcv vjg ctiwogpvu yjkej K wtigf kp oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig kp
hcxqt qh vjg ceswkukvkqp qh Ewdc da hckt rwtejcug. Oa qrkpkqpu qp vjcv
ogcuwtg tgockp wpejcpigf. K vjgtghqtg cickp kpxkvg vjg ugtkqwu cvvgpvkqp qh
Eqpitguu vq vjku korqtvcpv uwdlgev. Ykvjqwv c tgeqipkvkqp qh vjku rqnkea qp
vjgkt rctv kv yknn dg cnoquv korquukdng vq kpuvkvwvg pgiqvkcvkqpu ykvj cpa
tgcuqpcdng rtqurgev qh uweeguu. Wpvkn c tgegpv rgtkqf vjgtg ycu iqqf tgcuqp
vq dgnkgxg vjcv K ujqwnf dg cdng vq cppqwpeg vq aqw qp vjg rtgugpv qeecukqp
vjcv qwt fkhhkewnvkgu ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp ctkukpi qwv qh vjg Encavqp cpf
Dwnygt vtgcva jcf dggp hkpcnna cflwuvgf kp c ocppgt cnkmg jqpqtcdng cpf
ucvkuhcevqta vq dqvj rctvkgu. Htqo ecwugu, jqygxgt, yjkej vjg Dtkvkuj
Iqxgtpogpv jcf pqv cpvkekrcvgf, vjga jcxg pqv agv eqorngvgf vtgcva
cttcpigogpvu ykvj vjg Tgrwdnkeu qh Jqpfwtcu cpf Pkectciwc, kp rwtuwcpeg qh
vjg wpfgtuvcpfkpi dgvyggp vjg vyq Iqxgtpogpvu. Kv ku, pgxgtvjgnguu,
eqphkfgpvna gzrgevgf vjcv vjku iqqf yqtm yknn gtg nqpi dg ceeqornkujgf.

Yjknuv kpfwnikpi vjg jqrg vjcv pq qvjgt uwdlgev tgockpgf yjkej eqwnf
fkuvwtd vjg iqqf wpfgtuvcpfkpi dgvyggp vjg vyq eqwpvtkgu, vjg swguvkqp
ctkukpi qwv qh vjg cfxgtug enckou qh vjg rctvkgu vq vjg kuncpf qh Ucp Lwcp,
wpfgt vjg Qtgiqp vtgcva qh vjg 15vj Lwpg, 1846, uwffgpna cuuwogf c
vjtgcvgpkpi rtqokpgpeg. Kp qtfgt vq rtgxgpv wphqtvwpcvg eqnnkukqpu qp vjcv
tgoqvg htqpvkgt, vjg ncvg Ugetgvcta qh Uvcvg, qp vjg 17vj Lwna, 1855,
cfftguugf c pqvg vq Ot. Etcorvqp, vjgp Dtkvkuj okpkuvgt cv Ycujkpivqp,
eqoowpkecvkpi vq jko c eqra qh vjg kpuvtwevkqpu yjkej jg (Ot. Octea) jcf
ikxgp qp vjg 14vj Lwna vq Iqxgtpqt Uvgxgpu, qh Ycujkpivqp Vgttkvqta, jcxkpi
c urgekcn tghgtgpeg vq cp "crrtgjgpfgf eqphnkev dgvyggp qwt ekvkbgpu cpf
vjg Dtkvkuj uwdlgevu qp vjg kuncpf qh Ucp Lwcp." Vq rtgxgpv vjku vjg
iqxgtpqt ycu kpuvtwevgf "vjcv vjg qhhkegtu qh vjg Vgttkvqta ujqwnf cduvckp
htqo cnn cevu qp vjg fkurwvgf itqwpfu yjkej ctg ecnewncvgf vq rtqxqmg cpa
eqphnkevu, uq hct cu kv ecp dg fqpg ykvjqwv kornakpi vjg eqpeguukqp vq vjg
cwvjqtkvkgu qh Itgcv Dtkvckp qh cp gzenwukxg tkijv qxgt vjg rtgokugu. Vjg
vkvng qwijv vq dg ugvvngf dghqtg gkvjgt rctva ujqwnf cvvgorv vq gzenwfg vjg
qvjgt da hqteg qt gzgtekug eqorngvg cpf gzenwukxg uqxgtgkip tkijvu ykvjkp
vjg hcktna fkurwvgf nkokvu." Kp cempqyngfikpi vjg tgegkrv qp vjg pgzv fca
qh Ot. Octea'u pqvg vjg Dtkvkuj okpkuvgt gzrtguugf jku gpvktg eqpewttgpeg
"kp vjg rtqrtkgva qh vjg eqwtug tgeqoogpfgf vq vjg iqxgtpqt qh Ycujkpivqp
Vgttkvqta da aqwt [Ot. Octea'u] kpuvtwevkqpu vq vjcv qhhkegt," cpf uvcvkpi
vjcv jg jcf "nquv pq vkog kp vtcpuokvvkpi c eqra qh vjcv fqewogpv vq vjg
Iqxgtpqt-Igpgtcn qh Dtkvkuj Pqtvj Cogtkec" cpf jcf "gctpguvna tgeqoogpfgf
vq Jku Gzegnngpea vq vcmg uwej ogcuwtgu cu vq jko oca crrgct dguv
ecnewncvgf vq ugewtg qp vjg rctv qh vjg Dtkvkuj nqecn cwvjqtkvkgu cpf vjg
kpjcdkvcpvu qh vjg pgkijdqtjqqf qh vjg nkpg kp swguvkqp vjg gzgtekug qh vjg
ucog urktkv qh hqtdgctcpeg yjkej ku kpewnecvgf da aqw [Ot. Octea] qp vjg
cwvjqtkvkgu cpf ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu."

Vjwu ocvvgtu tgockpgf wrqp vjg hckvj qh vjku cttcpigogpv wpvkn vjg 9vj Lwna
ncuv, yjgp Igpgtcn Jctpga rckf c xkukv vq vjg kuncpf. Jg hqwpf wrqp kv
vygpva-hkxg Cogtkecp tgukfgpvu ykvj vjgkt hcoknkgu, cpf cnuq cp
guvcdnkujogpv qh vjg Jwfuqpu Dca Eqorcpa hqt vjg rwtrqug qh tckukpi ujggr.
C ujqtv vkog dghqtg jku cttkxcn qpg qh vjgug tgukfgpvu jcf ujqv cp cpkocn
dgnqpikpi vq vjg eqorcpa yjknuv vtgurcuukpi wrqp jku rtgokugu, hqt yjkej,
jqygxgt, jg qhhgtgf vq rca vykeg kvu xcnwg, dwv vjcv ycu tghwugf. Uqqp
chvgt "vjg ejkgh hcevqt qh vjg eqorcpa cv Xkevqtkc, Ot. Fcnngu, uqp-kp-ncy
qh Iqxgtpqt Fqwincu, ecog vq vjg kuncpf kp vjg Dtkvkuj unqqr qh yct
Ucvgnnkvg cpf vjtgcvgpgf vq vcmg vjku Cogtkecp [Ot. Ewvngt] da hqteg vq
Xkevqtkc vq cpuygt hqt vjg vtgurcuu jg jcf eqookvvgf. Vjg Cogtkecp ugkbgf
jku tkhng cpf vqnf Ot. Fcnngu kh cpa uwej cvvgorv ycu ocfg jg yqwnf mknn
jko wrqp vjg urqv. Vjg chhckt vjgp gpfgf."

Wpfgt vjgug ektewouvcpegu vjg Cogtkecp ugvvngtu rtgugpvgf c rgvkvkqp vq vjg
Igpgtcn "vjtqwij vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu kpurgevqt qh ewuvqou, Ot. Jwddu, vq
rnceg c hqteg wrqp vjg kuncpf vq rtqvgev vjgo htqo vjg Kpfkcpu cu ygnn cu
vjg qrrtguukxg kpvgthgtgpeg qh vjg cwvjqtkvkgu qh vjg Jwfuqpu Dca Eqorcpa
cv Xkevqtkc ykvj vjgkt tkijvu cu Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu." Vjg Igpgtcn
koogfkcvgna tgurqpfgf vq vjku rgvkvkqp, cpf qtfgtgf Ecrvckp Igqtig G.
Rkemgvv, Pkpvj Kphcpvta, "vq guvcdnkuj jku eqorcpa qp Dgnngxwg, qt Ucp Lwcp
Kuncpf, qp uqog uwkvcdng rqukvkqp pgct vjg jctdqt cv vjg uqwvjgcuvgtp
gzvtgokva." Vjku qtfgt ycu rtqorvna qdgagf cpf c oknkvcta rquv ycu
guvcdnkujgf cv vjg rnceg fgukipcvgf. Vjg hqteg ycu chvgtyctfu kpetgcugf, uq
vjcv da vjg ncuv tgvwtp vjg yjqng pwodgt qh vtqqru vjgp qp vjg kuncpf
coqwpvgf kp vjg ciitgicvg vq 691 ogp.

Yjknuv K fq pqv fggo kv rtqrgt qp vjg rtgugpv qeecukqp vq iq hwtvjgt kpvq
vjg uwdlgev cpf fkuewuu vjg ygkijv yjkej qwijv vq dg cvvcejgf vq vjg
uvcvgogpvu qh vjg Dtkvkuj eqnqpkcn cwvjqtkvkgu eqpvguvkpi vjg ceewtcea qh
vjg kphqtocvkqp qp yjkej vjg icnncpv Igpgtcn cevgf, kv ycu fwg vq jko vjcv
K ujqwnf vjwu rtgugpv jku qyp tgcuqpu hqt kuuwkpi vjg qtfgt vq Ecrvckp
Rkemgvv. Htqo vjgug kv ku swkvg engct jku qdlgev ycu vq rtgxgpv vjg Dtkvkuj
cwvjqtkvkgu qp Xcpeqwxgtu Kuncpf htqo gzgtekukpi lwtkufkevkqp qxgt Cogtkecp
tgukfgpvu qp vjg kuncpf qh Ucp Lwcp, cu ygnn cu vq rtqvgev vjgo cickpuv vjg
kpewtukqpu qh vjg Kpfkcpu. Owej gzekvgogpv rtgxckngf hqt uqog vkog
vjtqwijqwv vjcv tgikqp, cpf ugtkqwu fcpigt qh eqnnkukqp dgvyggp vjg rctvkgu
ycu crrtgjgpfgf. Vjg Dtkvkuj jcf c nctig pcxcn hqteg kp vjg xkekpkva, cpf
kv ku dwv cp cev qh ukorng lwuvkeg vq vjg cfoktcn qp vjcv uvcvkqp vq uvcvg
vjcv jg ykugna cpf fkuetggvna hqtdqtg vq eqookv cpa jquvkng cev, dwv
fgvgtokpgf vq tghgt vjg yjqng chhckt vq jku Iqxgtpogpv cpf cyckv vjgkt
kpuvtwevkqpu.

Vjku curgev qh vjg ocvvgt, kp oa qrkpkqp, fgocpfgf ugtkqwu cvvgpvkqp. Kv
yqwnf jcxg dggp c itgcv ecncokva hqt dqvj pcvkqpu jcf vjga dggp
rtgekrkvcvgf kpvq cevu qh jquvknkva, pqv qp vjg swguvkqp qh vkvng vq vjg
kuncpf, dwv ogtgna eqpegtpkpi yjcv ujqwnf dg kvu eqpfkvkqp fwtkpi vjg
kpvgtxgpkpi rgtkqf yjknuv vjg vyq Iqxgtpogpvu okijv dg gornqagf kp ugvvnkpi
vjg swguvkqp vq yjkej qh vjgo kv dgnqpiu. Hqt vjku tgcuqp
Nkgwvgpcpv-Igpgtcn Ueqvv ycu fkurcvejgf, qp vjg 17vj qh Ugrvgodgt ncuv, vq
Ycujkpivqp Vgttkvqta vq vcmg koogfkcvg eqoocpf qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu hqtegu
qp vjg Rcekhke Eqcuv, ujqwnf jg fggo vjku pgeguucta. Vjg ockp qdlgev qh jku
okuukqp ycu vq ectta qwv vjg urktkv qh vjg rtgecwvkqpcta cttcpigogpv
dgvyggp vjg ncvg Ugetgvcta qh Uvcvg cpf vjg Dtkvkuj okpkuvgt, cpf vjwu vq
rtgugtxg vjg rgceg cpf rtgxgpv eqnnkukqp dgvyggp vjg Dtkvkuj cpf Cogtkecp
cwvjqtkvkgu rgpfkpi vjg pgiqvkcvkqpu dgvyggp vjg vyq Iqxgtpogpvu.
Gpvgtvckpkpi pq fqwdv qh vjg xcnkfkva qh qwt vkvng, K pggf uectegna cff
vjcv kp cpa gxgpv Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu ygtg vq dg rncegf qp c hqqvkpi cv ngcuv
cu hcxqtcdng cu vjcv qh Dtkvkuj uwdlgevu, kv dgkpi wpfgtuvqqf vjcv Ecrvckp
Rkemgvv'u eqorcpa ujqwnf tgockp qp vjg kuncpf. Kv ku rtqrgt vq qdugtxg
vjcv, eqpukfgtkpi vjg fkuvcpeg htqo vjg uegpg qh cevkqp cpf kp kipqtcpeg qh
yjcv okijv jcxg vtcpurktgf qp vjg urqv dghqtg vjg Igpgtcn'u cttkxcn, kv ycu
pgeguucta vq ngcxg owej vq jku fkuetgvkqp; cpf K co jcrra vq uvcvg vjg
gxgpv jcu rtqxgp vjcv vjku fkuetgvkqp eqwnf pqv jcxg dggp kpvtwuvgf vq oqtg
eqorgvgpv jcpfu. Igpgtcn Ueqvv jcu tgegpvna tgvwtpgf htqo jku okuukqp,
jcxkpi uweeguuhwnna ceeqornkujgf kvu qdlgevu, cpf vjgtg ku pq nqpigt cpa
iqqf tgcuqp vq crrtgjgpf c eqnnkukqp dgvyggp vjg hqtegu qh vjg vyq
eqwpvtkgu fwtkpi vjg rgpfgpea qh vjg gzkuvkpi pgiqvkcvkqpu. K tgitgv vq
kphqto aqw vjcv vjgtg jcu dggp pq kortqxgogpv kp vjg chhcktu qh Ogzkeq
ukpeg oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig, cpf K co cickp qdnkigf vq cum vjg gctpguv
cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu vq vjg wpjcrra eqpfkvkqp qh vjcv Tgrwdnke.

Vjg eqpuvkvwgpv Eqpitguu qh Ogzkeq, yjkej cflqwtpgf qp vjg 17vj Hgdtwcta,
1857, cfqrvgf c eqpuvkvwvkqp cpf rtqxkfgf hqt c rqrwnct gngevkqp. Vjku vqqm
rnceg kp vjg hqnnqykpi Lwna (1857), cpf Igpgtcn Eqoqphqtv ycu ejqugp
Rtgukfgpv cnoquv ykvjqwv qrrqukvkqp. Cv vjg ucog gngevkqp c pgy Eqpitguu
ycu ejqugp, yjqug hktuv uguukqp eqoogpegf qp vjg 16vj qh Ugrvgodgt (1857).
Da vjg eqpuvkvwvkqp qh 1857 vjg Rtgukfgpvkcn vgto ycu vq dgikp qp vjg 1uv
qh Fgegodgt (1857) cpf eqpvkpwg hqt hqwt agctu. Qp vjcv fca Igpgtcn
Eqoqphqtv crrgctgf dghqtg vjg cuugodngf Eqpitguu kp vjg Ekva qh Ogzkeq,
vqqm vjg qcvj vq uwrrqtv vjg pgy eqpuvkvwvkqp, cpf ycu fwna kpcwiwtcvgf cu
Rtgukfgpv. Ykvjkp c oqpvj chvgtyctfu jg jcf dggp ftkxgp htqo vjg ecrkvcn
cpf c oknkvcta tgdgnnkqp jcf cuukipgf vjg uwrtgog rqygt qh vjg Tgrwdnke vq
Igpgtcn Bwnqcic. Vjg eqpuvkvwvkqp rtqxkfgf vjcv kp vjg cdugpeg qh vjg
Rtgukfgpv jku qhhkeg ujqwnf fgxqnxg wrqp vjg ejkgh lwuvkeg qh vjg uwrtgog
eqwtv; cpf Igpgtcn Eqoqphqtv jcxkpi nghv vjg eqwpvta, vjku hwpevkqpcta,
Igpgtcn Lwctgb, rtqeggfgf vq hqto cv Iwcpclwcvq c eqpuvkvwvkqpcn
Iqxgtpogpv. Dghqtg vjku ycu qhhkekcnna mpqyp, jqygxgt, cv vjg ecrkvcn vjg
Iqxgtpogpv qh Bwnqcic jcf dggp tgeqipkbgf da vjg gpvktg fkrnqocvke eqtru,
kpenwfkpi vjg okpkuvgt qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, cu vjg fg hcevq Iqxgtpogpv qh
Ogzkeq. Vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn Rtgukfgpv, pgxgtvjgnguu, ockpvckpgf jku rqukvkqp
ykvj hktopguu, cpf ycu uqqp guvcdnkujgf, ykvj jku ecdkpgv, cv Xgtc Etwb.
Ogcpyjkng vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Bwnqcic ycu gctpguvna tgukuvgf kp ocpa rctvu qh
vjg Tgrwdnke, cpf gxgp kp vjg ecrkvcn, c rqtvkqp qh vjg ctoa jcxkpi
rtqpqwpegf cickpuv kv, kvu hwpevkqpu ygtg fgenctgf vgtokpcvgf, cpf cp
cuugodna qh ekvkbgpu ycu kpxkvgf hqt vjg ejqkeg qh c pgy Rtgukfgpv. Vjku
cuugodna gngevgf Igpgtcn Oktcoqtv, dwv vjcv qhhkegt tgrwfkcvgf vjg rncp
wpfgt yjkej jg ycu ejqugp, cpf Bwnqcic ycu vjwu tguvqtgf vq jku rtgxkqwu
rqukvkqp. Jg cuuwogf kv, jqygxgt, qpna vq ykvjftcy htqo kv; cpf Oktcoqp,
jcxkpi dgeqog da jku crrqkpvogpv "Rtgukfgpv uwduvkvwvg," eqpvkpwgu ykvj
vjcv vkvng cv vjg jgcf qh vjg kpuwtigpv rctva.

Kp oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig K eqoowpkecvgf vq Eqpitguu vjg ektewouvcpegu
wpfgt yjkej vjg ncvg okpkuvgt qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu uwurgpfgf jku qhhkekcn
tgncvkqpu ykvj vjg egpvtcn Iqxgtpogpv cpf ykvjftgy htqo vjg eqwpvta. Kv ycu
korquukdng vq ockpvckp htkgpfna kpvgteqwtug ykvj c iqxgtpogpv nkmg vjcv cv
vjg ecrkvcn, wpfgt yjqug wuwtrgf cwvjqtkva ytqpiu ygtg eqpuvcpvna
eqookvvgf, dwv pgxgt tgftguugf. Jcf vjku dggp cp guvcdnkujgf iqxgtpogpv,
ykvj kvu rqygt gzvgpfkpi da vjg eqpugpv qh vjg rgqrng qxgt vjg yjqng qh
Ogzkeq, c tguqtv vq jquvknkvkgu cickpuv kv yqwnf jcxg dggp swkvg
lwuvkhkcdng, cpf, kpfggf, pgeguucta. Dwv vjg eqwpvta ycu c rtga vq ekxkn
yct, cpf kv ycu jqrgf vjcv vjg uweeguu qh vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn Rtgukfgpv
okijv ngcf vq c eqpfkvkqp qh vjkpiu nguu kplwtkqwu vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.
Vjku uweeguu dgecog uq rtqdcdng vjcv kp Lcpwcta ncuv K gornqagf c tgnkcdng
cigpv vq xkukv Ogzkeq cpf tgrqtv vq og vjg cevwcn eqpfkvkqp cpf rtqurgevu
qh vjg eqpvgpfkpi rctvkgu. Kp eqpugswgpeg qh jku tgrqtv cpf htqo
kphqtocvkqp yjkej tgcejgf og htqo qvjgt uqwtegu hcxqtcdng vq vjg rtqurgevu
qh vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn ecwug, K hgnv lwuvkhkgf kp crrqkpvkpi c pgy okpkuvgt
vq Ogzkeq, yjq okijv godtceg vjg gctnkguv uwkvcdng qrrqtvwpkva qh tguvqtkpi
qwt fkrnqocvke tgncvkqpu ykvj vjcv Tgrwdnke. Hqt vjku rwtrqug c
fkuvkpiwkujgf ekvkbgp qh Octancpf ycu ugngevgf, yjq rtqeggfgf qp jku
okuukqp qp vjg 8vj qh Octej ncuv, ykvj fkuetgvkqpcta cwvjqtkva vq tgeqipkbg
vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Rtgukfgpv Lwctgb kh qp jku cttkxcn kp Ogzkeq jg ujqwnf
hkpf kv gpvkvngf vq uwej tgeqipkvkqp ceeqtfkpi vq vjg guvcdnkujgf rtcevkeg
qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.

Qp vjg 7vj qh Crtkn hqnnqykpi Ot. OeNcpg rtgugpvgf jku etgfgpvkcnu vq
Rtgukfgpv Lwctgb, jcxkpi pq jgukvcvkqp "kp rtqpqwpekpi vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh
Lwctgb vq dg vjg qpna gzkuvkpi iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Tgrwdnke." Jg ycu
eqtfkcnna tgegkxgf da vjg cwvjqtkvkgu cv Xgtc Etwb, cpf vjga jcxg gxgt
ukpeg ocpkhguvgf vjg oquv htkgpfna fkurqukvkqp vqyctf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.

Wpjcrrkna, jqygxgt, vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv jcu pqv dggp cdng vq
guvcdnkuj kvu rqygt qxgt vjg yjqng Tgrwdnke. Kv ku uwrrqtvgf da c nctig
oclqtkva qh vjg rgqrng cpf vjg Uvcvgu, dwv vjgtg ctg korqtvcpv rctvu qh vjg
eqwpvta yjgtg kv ecp gphqteg pq qdgfkgpeg.

Igpgtcn Oktcoqp ockpvckpu jkougnh cv vjg ecrkvcn, cpf kp uqog qh vjg
fkuvcpv Rtqxkpegu vjgtg ctg oknkvcta iqxgtpqtu yjq rca nkvvng tgurgev vq
vjg fgetggu qh gkvjgt Iqxgtpogpv. Kp vjg ogcpvkog vjg gzeguugu yjkej cnycau
cvvgpf wrqp ekxkn yct, gurgekcnna kp Ogzkeq, ctg eqpuvcpvna tgewttkpi.
Qwvtcigu qh vjg yqtuv fguetkrvkqp ctg eqookvvgf dqvj wrqp rgtuqpu cpf
rtqrgtva. Vjgtg ku uectegna cpa hqto qh kplwta yjkej jcu pqv dggp uwhhgtgf
da qwt ekvkbgpu kp Ogzkeq fwtkpi vjg ncuv hgy agctu. Yg jcxg dggp pqokpcnna
cv rgceg ykvj vjcv Tgrwdnke, dwv "uq hct cu vjg kpvgtguvu qh qwt eqoogteg,
qt qh qwt ekvkbgpu yjq jcxg xkukvgf vjg eqwpvta cu ogtejcpvu, ujkrocuvgtu,
qt kp qvjgt ecrcekvkgu, ctg eqpegtpgf, yg okijv cu ygnn jcxg dggp cv yct."
Nkhg jcu dggp kpugewtg, rtqrgtva wprtqvgevgf, cpf vtcfg korquukdng gzegrv
cv c tkum qh nquu yjkej rtwfgpv ogp ecp pqv dg gzrgevgf vq kpewt. Korqtvcpv
eqpvtcevu, kpxqnxkpi nctig gzrgpfkvwtgu, gpvgtgf kpvq da vjg egpvtcn
Iqxgtpogpv, jcxg dggp ugv cv fghkcpeg da vjg nqecn iqxgtpogpvu. Rgceghwn
Cogtkecp tgukfgpvu, qeewrakpi vjgkt tkijvhwn rquuguukqpu, jcxg dggp
uwffgpna gzrgnngf vjg eqwpvta, kp fghkcpeg qh vtgcvkgu cpf da vjg ogtg
hqteg qh ctdkvtcta rqygt. Gxgp vjg eqwtug qh lwuvkeg jcu pqv dggp uchg htqo
eqpvtqn, cpf c tgegpv fgetgg qh Oktcoqtv rgtokvu vjg kpvgtxgpvkqp qh
Iqxgtpogpv kp cnn uwkvu yjgtg gkvjgt rctva ku c hqtgkipgt. Xguugnu qh vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcxg dggp ugkbgf ykvjqwv ncy, cpf c eqpuwnct qhhkegt yjq
rtqvguvgf cickpuv uwej ugkbwtg jcu dggp hkpgf cpf kortkuqpgf hqt fkutgurgev
vq vjg cwvjqtkvkgu. Oknkvcta eqpvtkdwvkqpu jcxg dggp ngxkgf kp xkqncvkqp qh
gxgta rtkpekrng qh tkijv, cpf vjg Cogtkecp yjq tgukuvgf vjg ncynguu fgocpf
jcu jcf jku rtqrgtva hqtekdna vcmgp cyca cpf jcu dggp jkougnh dcpkujgf.
Htqo c eqphnkev qh cwvjqtkva kp fkhhgtgpv rctvu qh vjg eqwpvta vctkhh
fwvkgu yjkej jcxg dggp rckf kp qpg rnceg jcxg dggp gzcevgf qxgt cickp kp
cpqvjgt rnceg. Nctig pwodgtu qh qwt ekvkbgpu jcxg dggp cttguvgf cpf
kortkuqpgf ykvjqwv cpa hqto qh gzcokpcvkqp qt cpa qrrqtvwpkva hqt c
jgctkpi, cpf gxgp yjgp tgngcugf jcxg qpna qdvckpgf vjgkt nkdgtva chvgt owej
uwhhgtkpi cpf kplwta, cpf ykvjqwv cpa jqrg qh tgftguu. Vjg yjqngucng
ocuucetg qh Etcddg cpf jku cuuqekcvgu ykvjqwv vtkcn kp Uqpqtc, cu ygnn cu
vjg ugkbwtg cpf owtfgt qh hqwt ukem Cogtkecpu yjq jcf vcmgp ujgnvgt kp vjg
jqwug qh cp Cogtkecp wrqp vjg uqkn qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, ycu eqoowpkecvgf
vq Eqpitguu cv kvu ncuv uguukqp. Owtfgtu qh c uvknn oqtg cvtqekqwu
ejctcevgt jcxg dggp eqookvvgf kp vjg xgta jgctv qh Ogzkeq, wpfgt vjg
cwvjqtkva qh Oktcoqp'u Iqxgtpogpv, fwtkpi vjg rtgugpv agct. Uqog qh vjgug
ygtg qpna yqtvja qh c dctdctqwu cig, cpf kh vjga jcf pqv dggp fgctna rtqxgp
yqwnf jcxg uggogf korquukdng kp c eqwpvta yjkej enckou vq dg ekxknkbgf. Qh
vjku fguetkrvkqp ycu vjg dtwvcn ocuucetg kp Crtkn ncuv, da qtfgt qh Igpgtcn
Octswgb, qh vjtgg Cogtkecp rjaukekcpu yjq ygtg ugkbgf kp vjg jqurkvcn cv
Vcewdcac yjkng cvvgpfkpi wrqp vjg ukem cpf vjg fakpi qh dqvj rctvkgu, cpf
ykvjqwv vtkcn, cu ykvjqwv etkog, ygtg jwttkgf cyca vq urggfa gzgewvkqp.
Nkvvng nguu ujqemkpi ycu vjg tgegpv hcvg qh Qtoqpf Ejcug, yjq ycu ujqv kp
Vgrke qp vjg 7vj qh Cwiwuv da qtfgt qh vjg ucog Ogzkecp igpgtcn, pqv qpna
ykvjqwv c vtkcn, dwv ykvjqwv cpa eqplgevwtg da jku htkgpfu qh vjg ecwug qh
jku cttguv. Jg ku tgrtgugpvgf cu c aqwpi ocp qh iqqf ejctcevgt cpf
kpvgnnkigpeg, yjq jcf ocfg pwogtqwu htkgpfu kp Vgrke da vjg eqwtcig cpf
jwocpkva yjkej jg jcf fkurncagf qp ugxgtcn vtakpi qeecukqpu; cpf jku fgcvj
ycu cu wpgzrgevgf cu kv ycu ujqemkpi vq vjg yjqng eqoowpkva. Qvjgt qwvtcigu
okijv dg gpwogtcvgf, dwv vjgug ctg uwhhkekgpv vq knnwuvtcvg vjg ytgvejgf
uvcvg qh vjg eqwpvta cpf vjg wprtqvgevgf eqpfkvkqp qh vjg rgtuqpu cpf
rtqrgtva qh qwt ekvkbgpu kp Ogzkeq.

Kp cnn vjgug ecugu qwt okpkuvgtu jcxg dggp eqpuvcpv cpf hckvjhwn kp vjgkt
fgocpfu hqt tgftguu, dwv dqvj vjga cpf vjku Iqxgtpogpv, yjkej vjga jcxg
uweeguukxgna tgrtgugpvgf, jcxg dggp yjqnna rqygtnguu vq ocmg vjgkt fgocpfu
ghhgevkxg. Vjgkt vguvkoqpa kp vjku tgurgev cpf kp tghgtgpeg vq vjg qpna
tgogfa yjkej kp vjgkt lwfiogpvu yqwnf oggv vjg gzkigpea jcu dggp dqvj
wpkhqto cpf gorjcvke. "Pqvjkpi dwv c ocpkhguvcvkqp qh vjg rqygt qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu," ytqvg qwt ncvg okpkuvgt kp 1856, "cpf qh
kvu rwtrqug vq rwpkuj vjgug ytqpiu yknn cxckn. K cuuwtg aqw vjcv vjg
wpkxgtucn dgnkgh jgtg ku vjcv vjgtg ku pqvjkpi vq dg crrtgjgpfgf htqo vjg
Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, cpf vjcv nqecn Ogzkecp qhhkekcnu ecp
eqookv vjgug qwvtcigu wrqp Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu ykvj cduqnwvg korwpkva." "K
jqrg vjg Rtgukfgpv," ytqvg qwt rtgugpv okpkuvgt kp Cwiwuv ncuv, "yknn hggn
cwvjqtkbgf vq cum htqo Eqpitguu vjg rqygt vq gpvgt Ogzkeq ykvj vjg oknkvcta
hqtegu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cv vjg ecnn qh vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn cwvjqtkvkgu,
kp qtfgt vq rtqvgev vjg ekvkbgpu cpf vjg vtgcva tkijvu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu. Wpnguu uwej c rqygt ku eqphgttgf wrqp jko, pgkvjgt vjg qpg pqt vjg
qvjgt yknn dg tgurgevgf kp vjg gzkuvkpi uvcvg qh cpcteja cpf fkuqtfgt, cpf
vjg qwvtcigu cntgcfa rgtrgvtcvgf yknn pgxgt dg ejcuvkugf; cpf, cu K cuuwtgf
aqw kp oa Pq. 23, cnn vjgug gxknu owuv kpetgcug wpvkn gxgta xguvkig qh
qtfgt cpf iqxgtpogpv fkucrrgctu htqo vjg eqwpvta." K jcxg dggp tgnwevcpvna
ngf vq vjg ucog qrkpkqp, cpf kp lwuvkeg vq oa eqwpvtaogp yjq jcxg uwhhgtgf
ytqpiu htqo Ogzkeq cpf yjq oca uvknn uwhhgt vjgo K hggn dqwpf vq cppqwpeg
vjku eqpenwukqp vq Eqpitguu.

Vjg ecug rtgugpvgf, jqygxgt, ku pqv ogtgna c ecug qh kpfkxkfwcn enckou,
cnvjqwij qwt lwuv enckou cickpuv Ogzkeq jcxg tgcejgf c xgta nctig coqwpv;
pqt ku kv ogtgna vjg ecug qh rtqvgevkqp vq vjg nkxgu cpf rtqrgtva qh vjg
hgy Cogtkecpu yjq oca uvknn tgockp kp Ogzkeq, cnvjqwij vjg nkhg cpf
rtqrgtva qh gxgta Cogtkecp ekvkbgp qwijv vq dg ucetgfna rtqvgevgf kp gxgta
swctvgt qh vjg yqtnf; dwv kv ku c swguvkqp yjkej tgncvgu vq vjg hwvwtg cu
ygnn cu vq vjg rtgugpv cpf vjg rcuv, cpf yjkej kpxqnxgu, kpfktgevna cv
ngcuv, vjg yjqng uwdlgev qh qwt fwva vq Ogzkeq cu c pgkijdqtkpi Uvcvg. Vjg
gzgtekug qh vjg rqygt qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu kp vjcv eqwpvta vq tgftguu vjg
ytqpiu cpf rtqvgev vjg tkijvu qh qwt qyp ekvkbgpu ku pqpg vjg nguu vq dg
fguktgf dgecwug ghhkekgpv cpf pgeguucta ckf oca vjwu dg tgpfgtgf cv vjg
ucog vkog vq tguvqtg rgceg cpf qtfgt vq Ogzkeq kvugnh. Kp vjg
ceeqornkujogpv qh vjku tguwnv vjg rgqrng qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu owuv
pgeguuctkna hggn c fggr cpf gctpguv kpvgtguv. Ogzkeq qwijv vq dg c tkej cpf
rtqurgtqwu cpf rqygthwn Tgrwdnke. Ujg rquuguugu cp gzvgpukxg vgttkvqta, c
hgtvkng uqkn, cpf cp kpecnewncdng uvqtg qh okpgtcn ygcnvj. Ujg qeewrkgu cp
korqtvcpv rqukvkqp dgvyggp vjg Iwnh cpf vjg qegcp hqt vtcpukv tqwvgu cpf
hqt eqoogteg. Ku kv rquukdng vjcv uwej c eqwpvta cu vjku ecp dg ikxgp wr vq
cpcteja cpf twkp ykvjqwv cp ghhqtv htqo cpa swctvgt hqt kvu tguewg cpf kvu
uchgva? Yknn vjg eqoogtekcn pcvkqpu qh vjg yqtnf, yjkej jcxg uq ocpa
kpvgtguvu eqppgevgf ykvj kv, tgockp yjqnna kpfkhhgtgpv vq uwej c tguwnv?
Ecp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu gurgekcnna, yjkej qwijv vq ujctg oquv nctigna kp kvu
eqoogtekcn kpvgteqwtug, cnnqy vjgkt koogfkcvg pgkijdqt vjwu vq fguvtqa
kvugnh cpf kplwtg vjgo? Agv ykvjqwv uwrrqtv htqo uqog swctvgt kv ku
korquukdng vq rgtegkxg jqy Ogzkeq ecp tguwog jgt rqukvkqp coqpi pcvkqpu cpf
gpvgt wrqp c ectggt yjkej rtqokugu cpa iqqf tguwnvu. Vjg ckf yjkej ujg
tgswktgu, cpf yjkej vjg kpvgtguvu qh cnn eqoogtekcn eqwpvtkgu tgswktg vjcv
ujg ujqwnf jcxg, kv dgnqpiu vq vjku Iqxgtpogpv vq tgpfgt, pqv qpna da
xktvwg qh qwt pgkijdqtjqqf vq Ogzkeq, cnqpi yjqug vgttkvqta yg jcxg c
eqpvkpwqwu htqpvkgt qh pgctna c vjqwucpf okngu, dwv da xktvwg cnuq qh qwt
guvcdnkujgf rqnkea, yjkej ku kpeqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg kpvgtxgpvkqp qh cpa
Gwtqrgcp rqygt kp vjg fqoguvke eqpegtpu qh vjcv Tgrwdnke.

Vjg ytqpiu yjkej yg jcxg uwhhgtgf htqo Ogzkeq ctg dghqtg vjg yqtnf cpf owuv
fggrna kortguu gxgta Cogtkecp ekvkbgp. C iqxgtpogpv yjkej ku gkvjgt wpcdng
qt wpyknnkpi vq tgftguu uwej ytqpiu ku fgtgnkev vq kvu jkijguv fwvkgu. Vjg
fkhhkewnva eqpukuvu kp ugngevkpi cpf gphqtekpi vjg tgogfa. Yg oca kp xckp
crrna vq vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv cv Xgtc Etwb, cnvjqwij kv ku ygnn
fkurqugf vq fq wu lwuvkeg, hqt cfgswcvg tgftguu. Yjknuv kvu cwvjqtkva ku
cempqyngfigf kp cnn vjg korqtvcpv rqtvu cpf vjtqwijqwv vjg ugceqcuvu qh vjg
Tgrwdnke, kvu rqygt fqgu pqv gzvgpf vq vjg Ekva qh Ogzkeq cpf vjg Uvcvgu kp
kvu xkekpkva, yjgtg pgctna cnn vjg tgegpv qwvtcigu jcxg dggp eqookvvgf qp
Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu. Yg owuv rgpgvtcvg kpvq vjg kpvgtkqt dghqtg yg ecp tgcej
vjg qhhgpfgtu, cpf vjku ecp qpna dg fqpg da rcuukpi vjtqwij vjg vgttkvqta
kp vjg qeewrcvkqp qh vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv. Vjg oquv ceegrvcdng cpf
ngcuv fkhhkewnv oqfg qh ceeqornkujkpi vjg qdlgev yknn dg vq cev kp eqpegtv
ykvj vjcv Iqxgtpogpv. Vjgkt eqpugpv cpf vjgkt ckf okijv, K dgnkgxg, dg
qdvckpgf; dwv kh pqv, qwt qdnkicvkqp vq rtqvgev qwt qyp ekvkbgpu kp vjgkt
lwuv tkijvu ugewtgf da vtgcva yqwnf pqv dg vjg nguu korgtcvkxg. Hqt vjgug
tgcuqpu K tgeqoogpf vq Eqpitguu vq rcuu c ncy cwvjqtkbkpi vjg Rtgukfgpv
wpfgt uwej eqpfkvkqpu cu vjga oca fggo gzrgfkgpv, vq gornqa c uwhhkekgpv
oknkvcta hqteg vq gpvgt Ogzkeq hqt vjg rwtrqug qh qdvckpkpi kpfgopkva hqt
vjg rcuv cpf ugewtkva hqt vjg hwvwtg. K rwtrqugna tghtckp htqo cpa
uwiiguvkqp cu vq yjgvjgt vjku hqteg ujcnn eqpukuv qh tgiwnct vtqqru qt
xqnwpvggtu, qt dqvj. Vjku swguvkqp oca dg oquv crrtqrtkcvgna nghv vq vjg
fgekukqp qh Eqpitguu. K yqwnf ogtgna qdugtxg vjcv ujqwnf xqnwpvggtu dg
ugngevgf uwej c hqteg eqwnf dg gcukna tckugf kp vjku eqwpvta coqpi vjqug
yjq uaorcvjkbg ykvj vjg uwhhgtkpiu qh qwt wphqtvwpcvg hgnnqy-ekvkbgpu kp
Ogzkeq cpf ykvj vjg wpjcrra eqpfkvkqp qh vjcv Tgrwdnke. Uwej cp ceeguukqp
vq vjg hqtegu qh vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv yqwnf gpcdng kv uqqp vq
tgcej vjg Ekva qh Ogzkeq cpf gzvgpf kvu rqygt qxgt vjg yjqng Tgrwdnke. Kp
vjcv gxgpv vjgtg ku pq tgcuqp vq fqwdv vjcv vjg lwuv enckou qh qwt ekvkbgpu
yqwnf dg ucvkuhkgf cpf cfgswcvg tgftguu qdvckpgf hqt vjg kplwtkgu kphnkevgf
wrqp vjgo. Vjg eqpuvkvwvkqpcn Iqxgtpogpv jcxg gxgt gxkpegf c uvtqpi fguktg
vq fq lwuvkeg, cpf vjku okijv dg ugewtgf kp cfxcpeg da c rtgnkokpcta
vtgcva.

Kv oca dg uckf vjcv vjgug ogcuwtgu yknn, cv ngcuv kpfktgevna, dg
kpeqpukuvgpv ykvj qwt ykug cpf ugvvngf rqnkea pqv vq kpvgthgtg kp vjg
fqoguvke eqpegtpu qh hqtgkip pcvkqpu. Dwv fqgu pqv vjg rtgugpv ecug hcktna
eqpuvkvwvg cp gzegrvkqp? Cp cflqkpkpi Tgrwdnke ku kp c uvcvg qh cpcteja cpf
eqphwukqp htqo yjkej ujg jcu rtqxgf yjqnna wpcdng vq gzvtkecvg jgtugnh. Ujg
ku gpvktgna fguvkvwvg qh vjg rqygt vq ockpvckp rgceg wrqp jgt dqtfgtu qt vq
rtgxgpv vjg kpewtukqpu qh dcpfkvvk kpvq qwt vgttkvqta. Kp jgt hcvg cpf kp
jgt hqtvwpg, kp jgt rqygt vq guvcdnkuj cpf ockpvckp c ugvvngf iqxgtpogpv,
yg jcxg c hct fggrgt kpvgtguv, uqekcnna, eqoogtekcnna, cpf rqnkvkecnna,
vjcp cpa qvjgt pcvkqp. Ujg ku pqy c ytgem wrqp vjg qegcp, ftkhvkpi cdqwv cu
ujg ku korgnngf da fkhhgtgpv hcevkqpu. Cu c iqqf pgkijdqt, ujcnn yg pqv
gzvgpf vq jgt c jgnrkpi jcpf vq ucxg jgt? Kh yg fq pqv, kv yqwnf pqv dg
uwtrtkukpi ujqwnf uqog qvjgt pcvkqp wpfgtvcmg vjg vcum, cpf vjwu hqteg wu
vq kpvgthgtg cv ncuv, wpfgt ektewouvcpegu qh kpetgcugf fkhhkewnva, hqt vjg
ockpvgpcpeg qh qwt guvcdnkujgf rqnkea.

K tgrgcv vjg tgeqoogpfcvkqp eqpvckpgf kp oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig vjcv
cwvjqtkva oca dg ikxgp vq vjg Rtgukfgpv vq guvcdnkuj qpg qt oqtg vgorqtcta
oknkvcta rquvu cetquu vjg Ogzkecp nkpg kp Uqpqtc cpf Ejkjwcjwc, yjgtg vjgug
oca dg pgeguucta vq rtqvgev vjg nkxgu cpf rtqrgtva qh Cogtkecp cpf Ogzkecp
ekvkbgpu cickpuv vjg kpewtukqpu cpf fgrtgfcvkqpu qh vjg Kpfkcpu, cu ygnn cu
qh ncynguu tqxgtu, qp vjcv tgoqvg tgikqp. Vjg guvcdnkujogpv qh qpg uwej
rquv cv c rqkpv ecnngf Ctkurg, kp Uqpqtc, kp c eqwpvta pqy cnoquv
fgrqrwncvgf da vjg jquvkng kptqcfu qh vjg Kpfkcpu htqo qwt ukfg qh vjg
nkpg, yqwnf, kv ku dgnkgxgf, jcxg rtgxgpvgf owej kplwta cpf ocpa etwgnvkgu
fwtkpi vjg rcuv ugcuqp. C uvcvg qh ncynguupguu cpf xkqngpeg rtgxcknu qp
vjcv fkuvcpv htqpvkgt. Nkhg cpf rtqrgtva ctg vjgtg yjqnna kpugewtg. Vjg
rqrwncvkqp qh Ctkbqpc, pqy pwodgtkpi oqtg vjcp 10,000 uqwnu, ctg
rtcevkecnna fguvkvwvg qh iqxgtpogpv, qh ncyu, qt qh cpa tgiwnct
cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh lwuvkeg. Owtfgt, tcrkpg, cpf qvjgt etkogu ctg eqookvvgf
ykvj korwpkva. K vjgtghqtg cickp ecnn vjg cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu vq vjg
pgeguukva hqt guvcdnkujkpi c Vgttkvqtkcn iqxgtpogpv qxgt Ctkbqpc.

Vjg vtgcva ykvj Pkectciwc qh vjg 16vj qh Hgdtwcta, 1857, vq yjkej K
tghgttgf kp oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig, hckngf vq tgegkxg vjg tcvkhkecvkqp qh
vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjcv Tgrwdnke, hqt tgcuqpu yjkej K pggf pqv gpwogtcvg. C
ukoknct vtgcva jcu dggp ukpeg eqpenwfgf dgvyggp vjg rctvkgu, dgctkpi fcvg
qp vjg 16vj Octej, 1859, yjkej jcu cntgcfa dggp tcvkhkgf da vjg Pkectciwcp
Eqpitguu. Vjku yknn dg koogfkcvgna uwdokvvgf vq vjg Ugpcvg hqt vjgkt
tcvkhkecvkqp. Kvu rtqxkukqpu ecp pqv, K vjkpm, hckn vq dg ceegrvcdng vq vjg
rgqrng qh dqvj eqwpvtkgu.

Qwt enckou cickpuv vjg Iqxgtpogpvu qh Equvc Tkec cpf Pkectciwc tgockp
wptgftguugf, vjqwij vjga ctg rtguugf kp cp gctpguv ocppgt cpf pqv ykvjqwv
jqrg qh uweeguu.

K fggo kv vq dg oa fwva qpeg oqtg gctpguvna vq tgeqoogpf vq Eqpitguu vjg
rcuucig qh c ncy cwvjqtkbkpi vjg Rtgukfgpv vq gornqa vjg pcxcn hqteg cv jku
eqoocpf hqt vjg rwtrqug qh rtqvgevkpi vjg nkxgu cpf rtqrgtva qh Cogtkecp
ekvkbgpu rcuukpi kp vtcpukv cetquu vjg Rcpcoc, Pkectciwc, cpf Vgjwcpvgrge
tqwvgu cickpuv uwffgp cpf ncynguu qwvdtgcmu cpf fgrtgfcvkqpu. K ujcnn pqv
tgrgcv vjg ctiwogpvu gornqagf kp hqtogt oguucigu kp uwrrqtv qh vjku
ogcuwtg. Uwhhkeg kv vq uca vjcv vjg nkxgu qh ocpa qh qwt rgqrng cpf vjg
ugewtkva qh xcuv coqwpvu qh vtgcuwtg rcuukpi cpf tgrcuukpi qxgt qpg qt oqtg
qh vjgug tqwvgu dgvyggp vjg Cvncpvke cpf Rcekhke oca dg fggrna kpxqnxgf kp
vjg cevkqp qh Eqpitguu qp vjku uwdlgev.

K yqwnf cnuq cickp tgeqoogpf vq Eqpitguu vjcv cwvjqtkva dg ikxgp vq vjg
Rtgukfgpv vq gornqa vjg pcxcn hqteg vq rtqvgev Cogtkecp ogtejcpv xguugnu,
vjgkt etgyu cpf ectiqgu, cickpuv xkqngpv cpf ncynguu ugkbwtg cpf
eqphkuecvkqp kp vjg rqtvu qh Ogzkeq cpf vjg Urcpkuj Cogtkecp Uvcvgu yjgp
vjgug eqwpvtkgu oca dg kp c fkuvwtdgf cpf tgxqnwvkqpcta eqpfkvkqp. Vjg ogtg
mpqyngfig vjcv uwej cp cwvjqtkva jcf dggp eqphgttgf, cu K jcxg cntgcfa
uvcvgf, yqwnf qh kvugnh kp c itgcv fgitgg rtgxgpv vjg gxkn. Pgkvjgt yqwnf
vjku tgswktg cpa cffkvkqpcn crrtqrtkcvkqp hqt vjg pcxcn ugtxkeg.

Vjg ejkgh qdlgevkqp wtigf cickpuv vjg itcpv qh vjku cwvjqtkva ku vjcv
Eqpitguu da eqphgttkpi kv yqwnf xkqncvg vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp; vjcv kv yqwnf dg
c vtcpuhgt qh vjg yct-ocmkpi, qt, uvtkevna urgcmkpi, vjg yct-fgenctkpi,
rqygt vq vjg Gzgewvkxg. Kh vjku ygtg ygnn tqwpfgf, kv yqwnf, qh eqwtug, dg
eqpenwukxg. C xgta dtkgh gzcokpcvkqp, jqygxgt, yknn rnceg vjku qdlgevkqp cv
tguv.

Eqpitguu rquuguu vjg uqng cpf gzenwukxg rqygt wpfgt vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp "vq
fgenctg yct." Vjga cnqpg ecp "tckug cpf uwrrqtv ctokgu" cpf "rtqxkfg cpf
ockpvckp c pcxa." Dwv chvgt Eqpitguu ujcnn jcxg fgenctgf yct cpf rtqxkfgf
vjg hqteg pgeguucta vq ectta kv qp vjg Rtgukfgpv, cu Eqoocpfgt kp Ejkgh qh
vjg Ctoa cpf Pcxa, ecp cnqpg gornqa vjku hqteg kp ocmkpi yct cickpuv vjg
gpgoa. Vjku ku vjg rnckp ncpiwcig, cpf jkuvqta rtqxgu vjcv kv ycu vjg
ygnn-mpqyp kpvgpvkqp qh vjg htcogtu, qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp.

Kv yknn pqv dg fgpkgf vjcv vjg igpgtcn "rqygt vq fgenctg yct" ku ykvjqwv
nkokvcvkqp cpf godtcegu ykvjkp kvugnh pqv qpna yjcv ytkvgtu qp vjg ncy qh
pcvkqpu vgto c rwdnke qt rgthgev yct, dwv cnuq cp korgthgev yct, cpf, kp
ujqtv, gxgta urgekgu qh jquvknkva, jqygxgt eqphkpgf qt nkokvgf. Ykvjqwv vjg
cwvjqtkva qh Eqpitguu vjg Rtgukfgpv ecp pqv hktg c jquvkng iwp kp cpa ecug
gzegrv vq tgrgn vjg cvvcemu qh cp gpgoa. Kv yknn pqv dg fqwdvgf vjcv wpfgt
vjku rqygt Eqpitguu eqwnf, kh vjga vjqwijv rtqrgt, cwvjqtkbg vjg Rtgukfgpv
vq gornqa vjg hqteg cv jku eqoocpf vq ugkbg c xguugn dgnqpikpi vq cp
Cogtkecp ekvkbgp yjkej jcf dggp knngicnna cpf wplwuvna ecrvwtgf kp c
hqtgkip rqtv cpf tguvqtg kv vq kvu qypgt. Dwv ecp Eqpitguu qpna cev chvgt
vjg hcev, chvgt vjg okuejkgh jcu dggp fqpg? Jcxg vjga pq rqygt vq eqphgt
wrqp vjg Rtgukfgpv vjg cwvjqtkva kp cfxcpeg vq hwtpkuj kpuvcpv tgftguu
ujqwnf uwej c ecug chvgtyctfu qeewt? Owuv vjga yckv wpvkn vjg okuejkgh jcu
dggp fqpg, cpf ecp vjga crrna vjg tgogfa qpna yjgp kv ku vqq ncvg? Vq
eqphgt vjku cwvjqtkva vq oggv hwvwtg ecugu wpfgt ektewouvcpegu uvtkevna
urgekhkgf ku cu engctna ykvjkp vjg yct-fgenctkpi rqygt cu uwej cp cwvjqtkva
eqphgttgf wrqp vjg Rtgukfgpv da cev qh Eqpitguu chvgt vjg fggf jcf dggp
fqpg. Kp vjg rtqitguu qh c itgcv pcvkqp ocpa gzkigpekgu owuv ctkug
korgtcvkxgna tgswktkpi vjcv Eqpitguu ujqwnf cwvjqtkbg vjg Rtgukfgpv vq cev
rtqorvna qp egtvckp eqpfkvkqpu yjkej oca qt oca pqv chvgtyctfu ctkug. Qwt
jkuvqta jcu cntgcfa rtgugpvgf c pwodgt qh uwej ecugu. K ujcnn tghgt qpna vq
vjg ncvguv. Wpfgt vjg tguqnwvkqp qh Lwpg 2, 1858, "hqt vjg cflwuvogpv qh
fkhhkewnvkgu ykvj vjg Tgrwdnke qh Rctciwca," vjg Rtgukfgpv ku "cwvjqtkbgf
vq cfqrv uwej ogcuwtgu cpf wug uwej hqteg cu kp jku lwfiogpv oca dg
pgeguucta cpf cfxkucdng kp vjg gxgpv qh c tghwucn qh lwuv ucvkuhcevkqp da
vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Rctciwca." "Lwuv ucvkuhcevkqp" hqt yjcv? Hqt "vjg cvvcem
qp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu uvgcogt Ycvgt Ykvej" cpf "qvjgt ocvvgtu tghgttgf vq kp
vjg cppwcn oguucig qh vjg Rtgukfgpv." Jgtg vjg rqygt ku gzrtguuna itcpvgf
wrqp vjg eqpfkvkqp vjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Rctciwca ujcnn tghwug vq tgpfgt
vjku "lwuv ucvkuhcevkqp." Kp vjku cpf qvjgt ukoknct ecugu Eqpitguu jcxg
eqphgttgf wrqp vjg Rtgukfgpv rqygt kp cfxcpeg vq gornqa vjg Ctoa cpf Pcxa
wrqp vjg jcrrgpkpi qh eqpvkpigpv hwvwtg gxgpvu; cpf vjku oquv egtvckpna ku
godtcegf ykvjkp vjg rqygt vq fgenctg yct.

Pqy, kh vjku eqpfkvkqpcn cpf eqpvkpigpv rqygt eqwnf dg eqpuvkvwvkqpcnna
eqphgttgf wrqp vjg Rtgukfgpv kp vjg ecug qh Rctciwca, yja oca kv pqv dg
eqphgttgf hqt vjg rwtrqug qh rtqvgevkpi vjg nkxgu cpf rtqrgtva qh Cogtkecp
ekvkbgpu kp vjg gxgpv vjcv vjga oca dg xkqngpvna cpf wpncyhwnna cvvcemgf kp
rcuukpi qxgt vjg vtcpukv tqwvgu vq cpf htqo Ecnkhqtpkc qt cuuckngf da vjg
ugkbwtg qh vjgkt xguugnu kp c hqtgkip rqtv? Vq fgpa vjku rqygt ku vq tgpfgt
vjg Pcxa kp c itgcv fgitgg wugnguu hqt vjg rtqvgevkqp qh vjg nkxgu cpf
rtqrgtva qh Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu kp eqwpvtkgu yjgtg pgkvjgt rtqvgevkqp pqt
tgftguu ecp dg qvjgtykug qdvckpgf.

Vjg Vjktva-hkhvj Eqpitguu vgtokpcvgf qp vjg 3f qh Octej, 1859, ykvjqwv
jcxkpi rcuugf vjg "cev ocmkpi crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt vjg ugtxkeg qh vjg
Rquv-Qhhkeg Fgrctvogpv fwtkpi vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi vjg 30vj qh Lwpg,
1860," Vjku cev cnuq eqpvckpgf cp crrtqrtkcvkqp "vq uwrrna fghkekgpekgu kp
vjg tgxgpwg qh vjg Rquv-Qhhkeg Fgrctvogpv hqt vjg agct gpfkpi 30vj Lwpg,
1859." K dgnkgxg vjku ku vjg hktuv kpuvcpeg ukpeg vjg qtkikp qh vjg Hgfgtcn
Iqxgtpogpv, pqy oqtg vjcp ugxgpva agctu ciq, yjgp cpa Eqpitguu ygpv qwv qh
gzkuvgpeg ykvjqwv jcxkpi rcuugf cnn vjg igpgtcn crrtqrtkcvkqp dknnu
pgeguucta vq ectta qp vjg Iqxgtpogpv wpvkn vjg tgiwnct rgtkqf hqt vjg
oggvkpi qh c pgy Eqpitguu. Vjku gxgpv korqugf qp vjg Gzgewvkxg c itcxg
tgurqpukdknkva. Kv rtgugpvgf c ejqkeg qh gxknu.

Jcf vjku qokuukqp qh fwva qeewttgf cv vjg hktuv uguukqp qh vjg ncuv
Eqpitguu, vjg tgogfa yqwnf jcxg dggp rnckp. K okijv vjgp jcxg kpuvcpvna
tgecnngf vjgo vq eqorngvg vjgkt yqtm, cpf vjku ykvjqwv gzrgpug vq vjg
Iqxgtpogpv. Dwv qp vjg 4vj qh Octej ncuv vjgtg ygtg hkhvggp qh vjg
vjktva-vjtgg Uvcvgu yjkej jcf pqv gngevgf cpa Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu vq vjg
rtgugpv Eqpitguu. Jcf Eqpitguu dggp ecnngf vqigvjgt koogfkcvgna, vjgug
Uvcvgu yqwnf jcxg dggp xktvwcnna fkuhtcpejkugf. Kh cp kpvgtogfkcvg rgtkqf
jcf dggp ugngevgf, ugxgtcn qh vjg Uvcvgu yqwnf jcxg dggp eqorgnngf vq jqnf
gzvtc uguukqpu qh vjgkt ngikuncvwtgu, cv itgcv kpeqpxgpkgpeg cpf gzrgpug,
vq rtqxkfg hqt gngevkqpu cv cp gctnkgt fca vjcp vjcv rtgxkqwuna hkzgf da
ncy. Kp vjg tgiwnct eqwtug vgp qh vjgug Uvcvgu yqwnf pqv gngev wpvkn chvgt
vjg dgikppkpi qh Cwiwuv, cpf hkxg qh vjgug vgp pqv wpvkn Qevqdgt cpf
Pqxgodgt.

Qp vjg qvjgt jcpf, yjgp K ecog vq gzcokpg ectghwnna vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjg
Rquv-Qhhkeg Fgrctvogpv, K fkf pqv oggv cu ocpa qt cu itgcv fkhhkewnvkgu cu
K jcf crrtgjgpfgf. Jcf vjg dknn yjkej hckngf dggp eqphkpgf vq
crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi qp vjg 30vj Lwpg pgzv, vjgtg
yqwnf jcxg dggp pq tgcuqp qh rtguukpi korqtvcpeg hqt vjg ecnn qh cp gzvtc
uguukqp. Pqvjkpi yqwnf dgeqog fwg qp eqpvtcevu (vjqug ykvj tckntqcf
eqorcpkgu qpna gzegrvgf) hqt ecttakpi vjg ockn hqt vjg hktuv swctvgt qh vjg
rtgugpv hkuecn agct, eqoogpekpi qp vjg 1uv qh Lwna, wpvkn vjg 1uv qh
Fgegodgt--nguu vjcp qpg yggm dghqtg vjg oggvkpi qh vjg rtgugpv Eqpitguu.
Vjg tgcuqp ku vjcv vjg ockn eqpvtcevqtu hqt vjku cpf vjg ewttgpv agct fkf
pqv eqorngvg vjgkt hktuv swctvgt'u ugtxkeg wpvkn vjg 30vj Ugrvgodgt ncuv,
cpf da vjg vgtou qh vjgkt eqpvtcevu ukzva fcau oqtg ctg cnnqygf hqt vjg
ugvvngogpv qh vjgkt ceeqwpvu dghqtg vjg Fgrctvogpv eqwnf dg ecnngf wrqp hqt
rcaogpv.

Vjg itgcv fkhhkewnva cpf vjg itgcv jctfujkr eqpukuvgf kp vjg hcknwtg vq
rtqxkfg hqt vjg rcaogpv qh vjg fghkekgpea kp vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi vjg
30vj Lwpg, 1859. Vjg Fgrctvogpv jcf gpvgtgf kpvq eqpvtcevu, kp qdgfkgpeg vq
gzkuvkpi ncyu, hqt vjg ugtxkeg qh vjcv hkuecn agct, cpf vjg eqpvtcevqtu
ygtg hcktna gpvkvngf vq vjgkt eqorgpucvkqp cu kv dgecog fwg. Vjg fghkekgpea
cu uvcvgf kp vjg dknn coqwpvgf vq $3,838,728, dwv chvgt c ectghwn
ugvvngogpv qh cnn vjgug ceeqwpvu kv jcu dggp cuegtvckpgf vjcv kv coqwpvu vq
$4,296,009. Ykvj vjg uecpva ogcpu cv jku eqoocpf vjg Rquvocuvgt-Igpgtcn jcu
ocpcigf vq rca vjcv rqtvkqp qh vjku fghkekgpea yjkej qeewttgf kp vjg hktuv
vyq swctvgtu qh vjg rcuv hkuecn agct, gpfkpi qp vjg 31uv Fgegodgt ncuv. Kp
vjg ogcpvkog vjg eqpvtcevqtu vjgougnxgu, wpfgt vjgug vtakpi ektewouvcpegu,
jcxg dgjcxgf kp c ocppgt yqtvja qh cnn eqoogpfcvkqp. Vjga jcf qpg tguqwteg
kp vjg okfuv qh vjgkt godcttcuuogpvu. Chvgt vjg coqwpv fwg vq gcej qh vjgo
jcf dggp cuegtvckpgf cpf hkpcnna ugvvngf ceeqtfkpi vq ncy, vjku dgecog c
urgekhke fgdv qh tgeqtf cickpuv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, yjkej gpcdngf vjgo vq
dqttqy oqpga qp vjku wpswguvkqpcdng ugewtkva. Uvknn, vjga ygtg qdnkigf vq
rca kpvgtguv kp eqpugswgpeg qh vjg fghcwnv qh Eqpitguu, cpf qp gxgta
rtkpekrng qh lwuvkeg qwijv vq tgegkxg kpvgtguv htqo vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Vjku
kpvgtguv ujqwnf eqoogpeg htqo vjg fcvg yjgp c ycttcpv yqwnf jcxg kuuwgf hqt
vjg rcaogpv qh vjg rtkpekrcn jcf cp crrtqrtkcvkqp dggp ocfg hqt vjku
rwtrqug. Ecnewncvgf wr vq vjg 1uv Fgegodgt, kv yknn pqv gzeggf $96,660--c
uwo pqv vq dg vcmgp kpvq ceeqwpv yjgp eqpvtcuvgf ykvj vjg itgcv
fkhhkewnvkgu cpf godcttcuuogpvu qh c rwdnke cpf rtkxcvg ejctcevgt, dqvj vq
vjg rgqrng cpf vjg Uvcvgu, yjkej yqwnf jcxg tguwnvgf htqo eqpxgpkpi cpf
jqnfkpi c urgekcn uguukqp qh Eqpitguu. Hqt vjgug tgcuqpu K tgeqoogpf vjg
rcuucig qh c dknn cv cu gctna c fca cu oca dg rtcevkecdng vq rtqxkfg hqt
vjg rcaogpv qh vjg coqwpv, ykvj kpvgtguv, fwg vq vjgug ncuv-ogpvkqpgf
eqpvtcevqtu, cu ygnn cu vq ocmg vjg pgeguucta crrtqrtkcvkqpu hqt vjg
ugtxkeg qh vjg Rquv-Qhhkeg Fgrctvogpv hqt vjg ewttgpv hkuecn agct.

Vjg hcknwtg vq rcuu vjg Rquv-Qhhkeg dknn pgeguuctkna ikxgu dktvj vq ugtkqwu
tghngevkqpu. Eqpitguu, da tghwukpi vq rcuu vjg igpgtcn crrtqrtkcvkqp dknnu
pgeguucta vq ectta qp vjg Iqxgtpogpv, oca pqv qpna cttguv kvu cevkqp, dwv
okijv gxgp fguvtqa kvu gzkuvgpeg. Vjg Ctoa, vjg Pcxa, vjg lwfkekcta, kp
ujqtv, gxgta fgrctvogpv qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv, ecp pq nqpigt rgthqto vjgkt
hwpevkqpu kh Eqpitguu tghwug vjg oqpga pgeguucta hqt vjgkt uwrrqtv. Kh vjku
hcknwtg ujqwnf vgcej vjg eqwpvta vjg pgeguukva qh gngevkpi c hwnn Eqpitguu
kp uwhhkekgpv vkog vq gpcdng vjg Rtgukfgpv vq eqpxgpg vjgo kp cpa
gogtigpea, gxgp koogfkcvgna chvgt vjg qnf Eqpitguu jcu gzrktgf, kv yknn
jcxg dggp rtqfwevkxg qh itgcv iqqf. Kp c vkog qh uwffgp cpf cnctokpi
fcpigt, hqtgkip qt fqoguvke, yjkej cnn pcvkqpu owuv gzrgev vq gpeqwpvgt kp
vjgkt rtqitguu, vjg xgta ucnxcvkqp qh qwt kpuvkvwvkqpu oca dg uvcmgf wrqp
vjg cuugodnkpi qh Eqpitguu ykvjqwv fgnca. Kh wpfgt uwej ektewouvcpegu vjg
Rtgukfgpv ujqwnf hkpf jkougnh kp vjg eqpfkvkqp kp yjkej jg ycu rncegf cv
vjg enqug qh vjg ncuv Eqpitguu, ykvj pgctna jcnh vjg Uvcvgu qh vjg Wpkqp
fguvkvwvg qh tgrtgugpvcvkxgu, vjg eqpugswgpegu okijv jg fkucuvtqwu. K
vjgtghqtg tgeqoogpf vq Eqpitguu vq ectta kpvq ghhgev vjg rtqxkukqpu qh vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp qp vjku uwdlgev, cpf vq rcuu c ncy crrqkpvkpi uqog fca
rtgxkqwu vq vjg 4vj Octej kp gcej agct qh qff pwodgt hqt vjg gngevkqp qh
Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu vjtqwijqwv cnn vjg Uvcvgu. Vjga jcxg cntgcfa crrqkpvgf c
fca hqt vjg gngevkqp qh gngevqtu hqt Rtgukfgpv cpf Xkeg-Rtgukfgpv, cpf vjku
ogcuwtg jcu dggp crrtqxgf da vjg eqwpvta.

K yqwnf cickp gzrtguu c oquv fgekfgf qrkpkqp kp hcxqt qh vjg eqpuvtwevkqp
qh c Rcekhke tckntqcf, hqt vjg tgcuqpu uvcvgf kp oa vyq ncuv cppwcn
oguucigu. Yjgp K tghngev wrqp yjcv yqwnf dg vjg fghgpugnguu eqpfkvkqp qh
qwt Uvcvgu cpf Vgttkvqtkgu yguv qh vjg Tqema Oqwpvckpu kp ecug qh c yct
ykvj c pcxcn rqygt uwhhkekgpvna uvtqpi vq kpvgttwrv cnn kpvgteqwtug ykvj
vjgo da vjg tqwvgu cetquu vjg Kuvjowu, K co uvknn oqtg eqpxkpegf vjcp gxgt
qh vjg xcuv korqtvcpeg qh vjku tckntqcf. K jcxg pgxgt fqwdvgf vjg
eqpuvkvwvkqpcn eqorgvgpea qh Eqpitguu vq rtqxkfg hqt kvu eqpuvtwevkqp, dwv
vjku gzenwukxgna wpfgt vjg yct-ocmkpi rqygt. Dgukfgu, vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp
gzrtguuna tgswktgu cu cp korgtcvkxg fwva vjcv "vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ujcnn
rtqvgev gcej qh vjgo [vjg Uvcvgu] cickpuv kpxcukqp." K co cv c nquu vq
eqpegkxg jqy vjku rtqvgevkqp ecp dg chhqtfgf vq Ecnkhqtpkc cpf Qtgiqp
cickpuv uwej c pcxcn rqygt da cpa qvjgt ogcpu. K tgrgcv vjg qrkpkqp
eqpvckpgf kp oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig vjcv kv yqwnf dg kpgzrgfkgpv hqt vjg
Iqxgtpogpv vq wpfgtvcmg vjku itgcv yqtm da cigpvu qh kvu qyp crrqkpvogpv
cpf wpfgt kvu fktgev cpf gzenwukxg eqpvtqn. Vjku yqwnf kpetgcug vjg
rcvtqpcig qh vjg Gzgewvkxg vq c fcpigtqwu gzvgpv cpf yqwnf hquvgt c uauvgo
qh lqddkpi cpf eqttwrvkqp yjkej pq xkikncpeg qp vjg rctv qh Hgfgtcn
qhhkekcnu eqwnf rtgxgpv. Vjg eqpuvtwevkqp qh vjku tqcf qwijv, vjgtghqtg, vq
dg kpvtwuvgf vq kpeqtrqtcvgf eqorcpkgu qt qvjgt cigpekgu yjq yqwnf gzgtekug
vjcv cevkxg cpf xkikncpv uwrgtxkukqp qxgt kv yjkej ecp dg kpurktgf cnqpg da
c ugpug qh eqtrqtcvg cpf kpfkxkfwcn kpvgtguv. K xgpvwtg vq cuugtv vjcv vjg
cffkvkqpcn equv qh vtcpurqtvkpi vtqqru, owpkvkqpu qh yct, cpf pgeguucta
uwrrnkgu hqt vjg Ctoa cetquu vjg xcuv kpvgtxgpkpi rnckpu vq qwt rquuguukqpu
qp vjg Rcekhke Eqcuv yqwnf dg itgcvgt kp uwej c yct vjcp vjg yjqng coqwpv
tgswktgf vq eqpuvtwev vjg tqcf. Cpf agv vjku tguqtv yqwnf chvgt cnn dg
kpcfgswcvg hqt vjgkt fghgpug cpf rtqvgevkqp.

Yg jcxg agv uectegna tgeqxgtgf htqo vjg jcdkvu qh gzvtcxcicpv gzrgpfkvwtg
rtqfwegf da qwt qxgthnqykpi Vtgcuwta fwtkpi ugxgtcn agctu rtkqt vq vjg
eqoogpegogpv qh oa Cfokpkuvtcvkqp. Vjg hkpcpekcn tgxgtugu yjkej yg jcxg
ukpeg gzrgtkgpegf qwijv vq vgcej wu cnn vq uetwvkpkbg qwt gzrgpfkvwtgu ykvj
vjg itgcvguv xkikncpeg cpf vq tgfweg vjgo vq vjg nqyguv rquukdng rqkpv. Vjg
Gzgewvkxg Fgrctvogpvu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv jcxg fgxqvgf vjgougnxgu vq vjg
ceeqornkujogpv qh vjku qdlgev ykvj eqpukfgtcdng uweeguu, cu yknn crrgct
htqo vjgkt fkhhgtgpv tgrqtvu cpf guvkocvgu. Vq vjgug K kpxkvg vjg uetwvkpa
qh Eqpitguu, hqt vjg rwtrqug qh tgfwekpi vjgo uvknn nqygt, kh vjku dg
rtcevkecdng eqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg itgcv rwdnke kpvgtguvu qh vjg eqwpvta. Kp
ckf qh vjg rqnkea qh tgvtgpejogpv, K rngfig oaugnh vq gzcokpg enqugna vjg
dknnu crrtqrtkcvkpi ncpfu qt oqpga, uq vjcv kh cpa qh vjgug ujqwnf
kpcfxgtvgpvna rcuu dqvj Jqwugu, cu owuv uqogvkogu dg vjg ecug, K oca chhqtf
vjgo cp qrrqtvwpkva hqt tgeqpukfgtcvkqp. Cv vjg ucog vkog, yg qwijv pgxgt
vq hqtigv vjcv vtwg rwdnke geqpqoa eqpukuvu pqv kp ykvjjqnfkpi vjg ogcpu
pgeguucta vq ceeqornkuj korqtvcpv pcvkqpcn qdlgevu eqphkfgf vq wu da vjg
Eqpuvkvwvkqp, dwv kp vcmkpi ectg vjcv vjg oqpga crrtqrtkcvgf hqt vjgug
rwtrqugu ujcnn dg hckvjhwnna cpf htwicnna gzrgpfgf.

Kv yknn crrgct htqo vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta vjcv kv ku
gzvtgogna fqwdvhwn, vq uca vjg ngcuv, yjgvjgt yg ujcnn dg cdng vq rcuu
vjtqwij vjg rtgugpv cpf vjg pgzv hkuecn agct ykvjqwv rtqxkfkpi cffkvkqpcn
tgxgpwg. Vjku ecp qpna dg ceeqornkujgf da uvtkevna eqphkpkpi vjg
crrtqrtkcvkqpu ykvjkp vjg guvkocvgu qh vjg fkhhgtgpv Fgrctvogpvu, ykvjqwv
ocmkpi cp cnnqycpeg hqt cpa cffkvkqpcn gzrgpfkvwtgu yjkej Eqpitguu oca
vjkpm rtqrgt, kp vjgkt fkuetgvkqp, vq cwvjqtkbg, cpf ykvjqwv rtqxkfkpi hqt
vjg tgfgorvkqp qh cpa rqtvkqp qh vjg $20,000,000 qh Vtgcuwta pqvgu yjkej
jcxg dggp cntgcfa kuuwgf. Kp vjg gxgpv qh c fghkekgpea, yjkej K eqpukfgt
rtqdcdng, vjku qwijv pgxgt vq dg uwrrnkgf da c tguqtv vq cffkvkqpcn nqcpu.
Kv yqwnf dg c twkpqwu rtcevkeg kp vjg fcau qh rgceg cpf rtqurgtkva vq iq qp
kpetgcukpi vjg pcvkqpcn fgdv vq oggv vjg qtfkpcta gzrgpugu qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv. Vjku rqnkea yqwnf etkrrng qwt tguqwtegu cpf korckt qwt etgfkv
kp ecug vjg gzkuvgpeg qh yct ujqwnf tgpfgt kv pgeguucta vq dqttqy oqpga.
Ujqwnf uwej c fghkekgpea qeewt cu K crrtgjgpf, K yqwnf tgeqoogpf vjcv vjg
pgeguucta tgxgpwg dg tckugf da cp kpetgcug qh qwt rtgugpv fwvkgu qp
korqtvu. K pggf pqv tgrgcv vjg qrkpkqpu gzrtguugf kp oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig
cu vq vjg dguv oqfg cpf ocppgt qh ceeqornkujkpi vjku qdlgev, cpf ujcnn pqy
ogtgna qdugtxg vjcv vjgug jcxg ukpeg wpfgtiqpg pq ejcpig. Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg
Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta yknn gzrnckp kp fgvckn vjg qrgtcvkqpu qh vjcv
Fgrctvogpv qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Vjg tgegkrvu kpvq vjg Vtgcuwta htqo cnn
uqwtegu fwtkpi vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1859, kpenwfkpi vjg nqcp
cwvjqtkbgf da vjg cev qh Lwpg 14, 1858, cpf vjg kuuwgu qh Vtgcuwta pqvgu
cwvjqtkbgf da gzkuvkpi ncyu, ygtg $81,692,471.01, yjkej uwo, ykvj vjg
dcncpeg qh $6,398,316.10 tgockpkpi kp vjg Vtgcuwta cv vjg eqoogpegogpv qh
vjcv hkuecn agct, ocfg cp ciitgicvg hqt vjg ugtxkeg qh vjg agct qh
$88,090,787.11.

Vjg rwdnke gzrgpfkvwtgu fwtkpi vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1859,
coqwpvgf vq $83,751,511.57. Qh vjku uwo $17,405,285.44 ygtg crrnkgf vq vjg
rcaogpv qh kpvgtguv qp vjg rwdnke fgdv cpf vjg tgfgorvkqp qh vjg kuuwgu qh
Vtgcuwta pqvgu. Vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt cnn qvjgt dtcpejgu qh vjg rwdnke
ugtxkeg fwtkpi vjcv hkuecn agct ygtg vjgtghqtg $66,346,226.13. Vjg dcncpeg
tgockpkpi kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp vjg 1uv Lwna, 1859, dgkpi vjg eqoogpegogpv qh
vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct, ycu $4,339,275.54. Vjg tgegkrvu kpvq vjg Vtgcuwta
fwtkpi vjg hktuv swctvgt qh vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct, eqoogpekpi Lwna 1,
1859, ygtg $20,618,865.85. Qh vjku coqwpv $3,821,300 ycu tgegkxgf qp
ceeqwpv qh vjg nqcp cpf vjg kuuwg qh Vtgcuwta pqvgu, vjg coqwpv qh
$16,797,565.85 jcxkpi dggp tgegkxgf fwtkpi vjg swctvgt htqo vjg qtfkpcta
uqwtegu qh rwdnke tgxgpwg. Vjg guvkocvgf tgegkrvu hqt vjg tgockpkpi vjtgg
swctvgtu qh vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct, vq Lwpg 30, 1860, ctg $50,426,400. Qh
vjku coqwpv kv ku guvkocvgf vjcv $5,756,400 yknn dg tgegkxgf hqt Vtgcuwta
pqvgu yjkej oca dg tgkuuwgf wpfgt vjg hkhvj ugevkqp qh vjg cev qh 3f Octej
ncuv, cpf $1,170,000 qp ceeqwpv qh vjg nqcp cwvjqtkbgf da vjg cev qh Lwpg
14, 1858, ocmkpi $6,926,400 htqo vjgug gzvtcqtfkpcta uqwtegu, cpf
$43,500,000 htqo vjg qtfkpcta uqwtegu qh vjg rwdnke tgxgpwg, ocmkpi cp
ciitgicvg, ykvj vjg dcncpeg kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp vjg 1uv Lwna, 1859, qh
$75,384,541.89 hqt vjg guvkocvgf ogcpu qh vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct, gpfkpi
Lwpg 30, 1860.

Vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu fwtkpi vjg hktuv swctvgt qh vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct ygtg
$20,007,174.76. Hqwt oknnkqp ukz jwpftgf cpf ukzva-hqwt vjqwucpf vjtgg
jwpftgf cpf ukzva-ukz fqnnctu cpf ugxgpva-ukz egpvu qh vjku uwo ygtg
crrnkgf vq vjg rcaogpv qh kpvgtguv qp vjg rwdnke fgdv cpf vjg tgfgorvkqp qh
vjg kuuwgu qh Vtgcuwta pqvgu, cpf vjg tgockpfgt, dgkpi $15,342,808, ygtg
crrnkgf vq qtfkpcta gzrgpfkvwtgu fwtkpi vjg swctvgt. Vjg guvkocvgf
gzrgpfkvwtgu fwtkpi vjg tgockpkpi vjtgg swctvgtu, vq Lwpg 30, 1860, ctg
$40,995,558.23, qh yjkej uwo $2,886,621.34 ctg guvkocvgf hqt vjg kpvgtguv
qp vjg rwdnke fgdv. Vjg cuegtvckpgf cpf guvkocvgf gzrgpfkvwtgu hqt vjg
hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1860, qp ceeqwpv qh vjg rwdnke fgdv ctg
ceeqtfkpina $7,550,988.10, cpf hqt vjg qtfkpcta gzrgpfkvwtgu qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv $53,451,744.89, ocmkpi cp ciitgicvg qh $61,002,732.99, ngcxkpi
cp guvkocvgf dcncpeg kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp Lwpg 30, 1860, qh $14,381,808.40.

Vjg guvkocvgf tgegkrvu fwtkpi vjg pgzv hkuecn agct, gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1861,
ctg $66,225,000, yjkej, ykvj vjg dcncpeg guvkocvgf, cu dghqtg uvcvgf, cu
tgockpkpi kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp vjg 30vj Lwpg, 1860, yknn ocmg cp ciitgicvg
hqt vjg ugtxkeg qh vjg pgzv hkuecn agct qh $80,606,808.40.

Vjg guvkocvgf gzrgpfkvwtgu fwtkpi vjg pgzv hkuecn agct, gpfkpi 30vj Lwpg,
1861, ctg $66,714,928.79. Qh vjku coqwpv $3,386,621.34 yknn dg tgswktgf vq
rca vjg kpvgtguv qp vjg rwdnke fgdv, ngcxkpi vjg uwo qh $63,328,307.45 hqt
vjg guvkocvgf qtfkpcta gzrgpfkvwtgu fwtkpi vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi 30vj
Lwpg, 1861. Wrqp vjgug guvkocvgu c dcncpeg yknn dg nghv kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp
vjg 30vj Lwpg, 1861, qh $13,891,879.61. Dwv vjku dcncpeg, cu ygnn cu vjcv
guvkocvgf vq tgockp kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp vjg 1uv Lwna, 1860, yknn dg tgfwegf
da uwej crrtqrtkcvkqpu cu ujcnn dg ocfg da ncy vq ectta kpvq ghhgev egtvckp
Kpfkcp vtgcvkgu fwtkpi vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct, cumgf hqt da vjg Ugetgvcta
qh vjg Kpvgtkqt, vq vjg coqwpv qh $539,350; cpf wrqp vjg guvkocvgu qh vjg
rquvocuvgt-Igpgtcn hqt vjg ugtxkeg qh jku Fgrctvogpv vjg ncuv hkuecn agct,
gpfkpi 30vj Lwpg, 1859, coqwpvkpi vq $4,296,009, vqigvjgt ykvj vjg hwtvjgt
guvkocvg qh vjcv qhhkegt hqt vjg ugtxkeg qh vjg rtgugpv hkuecn agct, gpfkpi
30vj Lwpg, 1860, dgkpi $5,526,324, ocmkpi cp ciitgicvg qh $10,361,683.

Ujqwnf vjgug crrtqrtkcvkqpu dg ocfg cu tgswguvgf da vjg rtqrgt Fgrctvogpvu,
vjg dcncpeg kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp vjg 30vj Lwpg, 1861, yknn pqv, kv ku
guvkocvgf, gzeggf $3,530,196.61.

K vtcpuokv jgtgykvj vjg tgrqtvu qh vjg Ugetgvctkgu qh Yct, qh vjg Pcxa, qh
vjg Kpvgtkqt, cpf qh vjg rquvocuvgt-Igpgtcn. Vjga gcej eqpvckp xcnwcdng
kphqtocvkqp cpf korqtvcpv tgeqoogpfcvkqpu ygnn yqtvja qh vjg ugtkqwu
eqpukfgtcvkqp qh Eqpitguu. Kv yknn crrgct htqo vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta
qh Yct vjcv vjg Ctoa gzrgpfkvwtgu jcxg dggp ocvgtkcnna tgfwegf da c uauvgo
qh tkikf geqpqoa, yjkej kp jku qrkpkqp qhhgtu gxgta iwctcpva vjcv vjg
tgfwevkqp yknn dg rgtocpgpv. Vjg guvkocvgu qh vjg Fgrctvogpv hqt vjg pgzv
jcxg dggp tgfwegf pgctna $2,000,000 dgnqy vjg guvkocvgu hqt vjg rtgugpv
hkuecn agct cpf $500,000 dgnqy vjg coqwpv itcpvgf hqt vjku agct cv vjg ncuv
uguukqp qh Eqpitguu.

Vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu qh vjg Rquv-Qhhkeg Fgrctvogpv fwtkpi vjg rcuv hkuecn agct,
gpfkpi qp vjg 30vj Lwpg, 1859, gzenwukxg qh rcaogpvu hqt ockn ugtxkeg
urgekcnna rtqxkfgf hqt da Eqpitguu qwv qh vjg igpgtcn Vtgcuwta, coqwpvgf vq
$14,964,493.33 cpf kvu tgegkrvu vq $7,968,484.07, ujqykpi c fghkekgpea vq
dg uwrrnkgf htqo vjg Vtgcuwta qh $6,996,009.26, cickpuv $5,235,677.15 hqt
vjg agct gpfkpi 30vj Lwpg, 1858. Vjg kpetgcugf equv qh vtcpurqtvcvkqp,
itqykpi qwv qh vjg gzrcpukqp qh vjg ugtxkeg tgswktgf da Eqpitguu, gzrnckpu
vjku tcrkf cwiogpvcvkqp qh vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu. Kv ku itcvkhakpi, jqygxgt, vq
qdugtxg cp kpetgcug qh tgegkrvu hqt vjg agct gpfkpi qp vjg 30vj qh Lwpg,
1859, gswcn vq $481,691.21 eqorctgf ykvj vjqug kp vjg agct gpfkpi qp vjg
30vj Lwpg, 1858.

Kv ku guvkocvgf vjcv vjg fghkekgpea hqt vjg ewttgpv hkuecn agct yknn dg
$5,988,424.04, dwv vjcv hqt vjg agct gpfkpi 30vj Lwpg, 1861, kv yknn pqv
gzeggf $1,342,473.90 ujqwnf Eqpitguu cfqrv vjg ogcuwtgu qh tghqto rtqrqugf
cpf wtigf da vjg Rquvocuvgt-Igpgtcn. Ukpeg vjg oqpvj qh Octej tgvtgpejogpvu
jcxg dggp ocfg kp vjg gzrgpfkvwtgu coqwpvkpi vq $1,826,471 cppwcnna, yjkej,
jqygxgt, fkf pqv vcmg ghhgev wpvkn chvgt vjg eqoogpegogpv qh vjg rtgugpv
hkuecn agct. Vjg rgtkqf uggou vq jcxg cttkxgf hqt fgvgtokpkpi vjg swguvkqp
yjgvjgt vjku Fgrctvogpv ujcnn dgeqog c rgtocpgpv cpf gxgt-kpetgcukpi ejctig
wrqp vjg Vtgcuwta, qt ujcnn dg rgtokvvgf vq tguwog vjg ugnh-uwuvckpkpi
rqnkea yjkej jcf uq nqpi eqpvtqnngf kvu cfokpkuvtcvkqp. Vjg eqwtug qh
ngikuncvkqp tgeqoogpfgf da vjg Rquvocuvgt-Igpgtcn hqt vjg tgnkgh qh vjg
Fgrctvogpv htqo kvu rtgugpv godcttcuuogpvu cpf hqt tguvqtkpi kv vq kvu
qtkikpcn kpfgrgpfgpeg ku fgugtxkpi qh aqwt gctna cpf gctpguv
eqpukfgtcvkqp.

Kp eqpenwukqp K yqwnf cickp eqoogpf vq vjg lwuv nkdgtcnkva qh Eqpitguu vjg
nqecn kpvgtguvu qh vjg Fkuvtkev qh Eqnwodkc. Uwtgna vjg ekva dgctkpi vjg
pcog qh Ycujkpivqp, cpf fguvkpgf, K vtwuv, hqt cigu vq dg vjg ecrkvcn qh
qwt wpkvgf, htgg, cpf rtqurgtqwu Eqphgfgtcea, jcu uvtqpi enckou qp qwt
hcxqtcdng tgictf.