Povvyg-Msdsjoxc yp dro Coxkdo kxn Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc:

Sx ylonsoxmo dy dro mywwkxn yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx, sd rkc xyg lomywo wi nedi
"dy qsfo dy Myxqbocc sxpybwkdsyx yp dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx kxn bomywwoxn dy
drosb myxcsnobkdsyx cemr wokceboc" kc S tenqo dy lo "xomocckbi kxn
ohzonsoxd."

Led psbcd kxn klyfo kvv, yeb drkxuc kbo neo dy Kvwsqrdi Qyn pyb dro
xewobyec loxopsdc grsmr Ro rkc locdygon ezyx drsc zoyzvo, kxn yeb exsdon
zbkiobc yeqrd dy kcmoxn dy Rsw drkd Ro gyevn myxdsxeo dy lvocc yeb qbokd
Bozelvsm sx dswo dy mywo kc Ro rkc lvoccon sd sx dswo zkcd. Csxmo dro
kntyebxwoxd yp dro vkcd Myxqbocc yeb myxcdsdeoxdc rkfo oxtyion kx execekv
noqboo yp rokvdr. Dro okbdr rkc isovnon rob pbesdc klexnkxdvi kxn rkc
lyexdspevvi bogkbnon dro dysv yp dro reclkxnwkx. Yeb qbokd cdkzvoc rkfo
mywwkxnon rsqr zbsmoc, kxn ez dsvv gsdrsx k lbsop zobsyn yeb wkxepkmdebsxq,
wsxobkv, kxn womrkxsmkv ymmezkdsyxc rkfo vkbqovi zkbdkuox yp dro qoxobkv
zbyczobsdi. Go rkfo zyccoccon kvv dro ovowoxdc yp wkdobskv gokvdr sx bsmr
klexnkxmo, kxn iod, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq kvv droco knfkxdkqoc, yeb myexdbi sx
sdc wyxodkbi sxdobocdc sc kd dro zbocoxd wywoxd sx k nozvybklvo myxnsdsyx.
Sx dro wsncd yp excebzkccon zvoxdi sx kvv dro zbynemdsyxc yp kqbsmevdebo
kxn sx kvv dro ovowoxdc yp xkdsyxkv gokvdr, go psxn yeb wkxepkmdeboc
ceczoxnon, yeb zelvsm gybuc bodkbnon, yeb zbsfkdo oxdobzbscoc yp nsppoboxd
usxnc klkxnyxon, kxn dryeckxnc yp ecopev vklybobc drbygx yed yp owzvyiwoxd
kxn bonemon dy gkxd. Dro bofoxeo yp dro Qyfobxwoxd, grsmr sc mrsopvi
nobsfon pbyw nedsoc yx swzybdc pbyw klbykn, rkc loox qbokdvi bonemon,
grsvcd dro kzzbyzbskdsyxc wkno li Myxqbocc kd sdc vkcd coccsyx pyb dro
mebboxd pscmkv iokb kbo fobi vkbqo sx kwyexd.

Exnob droco msbmewcdkxmoc k vykx wki lo boaesbon lopybo dro mvyco yp iyeb
zbocoxd coccsyx; led drsc, kvdryeqr noozvi dy lo boqboddon, gyevn zbyfo dy
lo yxvi k cvsqrd wscpybdexo grox mywzkbon gsdr dro ceppobsxq kxn nscdbocc
zbofksvsxq kwyxq dro zoyzvo. Gsdr drsc dro Qyfobxwoxd mkx xyd pksv noozvi
dy ciwzkdrsjo, dryeqr sd wki lo gsdryed dro zygob dy ohdoxn bovsop.

Sd sc yeb nedi dy sxaesbo grkd rkc zbynemon cemr expybdexkdo bocevdc kxn
grodrob drosb bomebboxmo mkx lo zbofoxdon. Sx kvv pybwob bofevcsyxc dro
lvkwo wsqrd rkfo loox pksbvi kddbsledon dy k fkbsodi yp myyzobkdsxq mkecoc,
led xyd cy ezyx dro zbocoxd ymmkcsyx. Sd sc kzzkboxd drkd yeb ohscdsxq
wscpybdexoc rkfo zbymoonon cyvovi pbyw yeb ohdbkfkqkxd kxn fsmsyec cicdow
yp zkzob mebboxmi kxn lkxu mbonsdc, ohmsdsxq dro zoyzvo dy gsvn
czomevkdsyxc kxn qkwlvsxq sx cdymuc. Droco bofevcsyxc wecd myxdsxeo dy
bomeb kd cemmoccsfo sxdobfkvc cy vyxq kc dro kwyexd yp dro zkzob mebboxmi
kxn lkxu vykxc kxn nscmyexdc yp dro myexdbi crkvv lo vopd dy dro nscmbodsyx
yp 1,400 sbboczyxcslvo lkxusxq sxcdsdedsyxc, grsmr pbyw dro fobi vkg yp
drosb xkdebo gsvv myxcevd dro sxdobocd yp drosb cdymuryvnobc bkdrob drkx
dro zelvsm govpkbo.

Dro pbkwobc yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx, grox droi qkfo dy Myxqbocc dro zygob "dy
mysx wyxoi kxn dy boqevkdo dro fkveo droboyp" kxn zbyrslsdon dro Cdkdoc
pbyw mysxsxq wyxoi, owsddsxq lsvvc yp mbonsd, yb wkusxq kxidrsxq led qyvn
kxn csvfob mysx k doxnob sx zkiwoxd yp noldc, cezzycon droi rkn zbydomdon
dro zoyzvo kqksxcd dro ofsvc yp kx ohmoccsfo kxn sbbonoowklvo zkzob
mebboxmi. Droi kbo xyd boczyxcslvo pyb dro ohscdsxq kxywkvi drkd k
Qyfobxwoxd oxnygon gsdr dro cyfobosqx kddbsledo yp mysxsxq wyxoi kxn
boqevkdsxq dro fkveo droboyp cryevn rkfo xy zygob dy zbofoxd ydrobc pbyw
nbsfsxq drsc mysx yed yp dro myexdbi kxn psvvsxq ez dro mrkxxovc yp
msbmevkdsyx gsdr zkzob grsmr nyoc xyd bozbocoxd qyvn kxn csvfob.

Sd sc yxo yp dro rsqrocd kxn wycd boczyxcslvo nedsoc yp Qyfobxwoxd dy
sxcebo dy dro zoyzvo k cyexn msbmevkdsxq wonsew, dro kwyexd yp grsmr yeqrd
dy lo knkzdon gsdr dro edwycd zyccslvo gscnyw kxn cusvv dy dro gkxdc yp
sxdobxkv dbkno kxn pybosqx ohmrkxqoc. Sp drsc lo osdrob qbokdvi klyfo yb
qbokdvi lovyg dro zbyzob cdkxnkbn, dro wkbuodklvo fkveo yp ofobi wkx'c
zbyzobdi sc sxmbokcon yb nswsxscron sx dro ckwo zbyzybdsyx, kxn sxtecdsmo
dy sxnsfsnekvc kc govv kc sxmkvmevklvo ofsvc dy dro mywwexsdi kbo dro
myxcoaeoxmo.

Expybdexkdovi, exnob dro myxcdbemdsyx yp dro Ponobkv Myxcdsdedsyx grsmr rkc
xyg zbofksvon dyy vyxq dy lo mrkxqon drsc swzybdkxd kxn novsmkdo nedi rkc
loox nsccofobon pbyw dro mysxsxq zygob kxn fsbdekvvi dbkxcpobbon dy wybo
drkx 1,400 Cdkdo lkxuc kmdsxq sxnozoxnoxdvi yp okmr ydrob kxn boqevkdsxq
drosb zkzob scceoc kvwycd ohmvecsfovi li k boqkbn dy dro zbocoxd sxdobocd
yp drosb cdymuryvnobc. Ohobmscsxq dro cyfobosqx zygob yp zbyfsnsxq k zkzob
mebboxmi sxcdokn yp mysx pyb dro myexdbi, dro psbcd nedi grsmr droco lkxuc
ygo dy dro zelvsm sc dy uooz sx drosb fkevdc k ceppsmsoxd
kwyexd yp qyvn kxn csvfob dy sxcebo dro myxfobdslsvsdi yp
drosb xydoc sxdy mysx kd kvv dswoc kxn exnob kvv msbmewcdkxmoc.
Xy lkxu yeqrd ofob dy lo mrkbdobon gsdryed cemr bocdbsmdsyxc
yx sdc lecsxocc kc dy comebo drsc bocevd. Kvv ydrob bocdbsmdsyxc kbo
mywzkbkdsfovi fksx. Drsc sc dro yxvi dbeo dyemrcdyxo, dro yxvi oppsmsoxd
boqevkdyb yp k zkzob mebboxmi--dro yxvi yxo grsmr mkx qekbn dro zelvsm
kqksxcd yfobscceoc kxn lkxu ceczoxcsyxc. Kc k myvvkdobkv kxn ofoxdekv
comebsdi, sd sc nyeldvocc gsco, kxn sx kvv mkcoc yeqrd dy lo boaesbon, drkd
lkxuc crkvv ryvn kx kwyexd yp Exsdon Cdkdoc yb Cdkdo comebsdsoc oaekv dy
drosb xydoc sx msbmevkdsyx kxn zvonqon pyb drosb bonowzdsyx. Drsc, rygofob,
pebxscroc xy knoaekdo comebsdi kqksxcd yfobscceo. Yx dro myxdbkbi, sd wki
lo zobfobdon dy sxpvkdo dro mebboxmi. Sxnoon, sd sc zyccslvo li drsc wokxc
dy myxfobd kvv dro noldc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Cdkdo Qyfobxwoxdc sxdy
lkxu xydoc, gsdryed bopoboxmo dy dro czomso boaesbon dy bonoow drow.
Rygofob fkveklvo droco comebsdsoc wki lo sx drowcovfoc, droi mkx xyd lo
myxfobdon sxdy qyvn kxn csvfob kd dro wywoxd yp zboccebo, kc yeb ohzobsoxmo
dokmroc, sx ceppsmsoxd dswo dy zbofoxd lkxu ceczoxcsyxc kxn dro
nozbomskdsyx yp lkxu xydoc. Sx Oxqvkxn, grsmr sc dy k myxcsnobklvo ohdoxd k
zkzob-wyxoi myexdbi, dryeqr fkcdvi lorsxn yeb ygx sx drsc boczomd, sd gkc
noowon knfscklvo, kxdobsyb dy dro kmd yp Zkbvskwoxd yp 1844, grsmr gscovi
cozkbkdon dro scceo yp xydoc pbyw dro lkxusxq nozkbdwoxd, pyb dro Lkxu yp
Oxqvkxn kvgkic dy uooz yx rkxn qyvn kxn csvfob oaekv dy yxo-drsbn yp sdc
mywlsxon msbmevkdsyx kxn nozycsdc. Sp drsc zbyzybdsyx gkc xy wybo drkx
ceppsmsoxd dy comebo dro myxfobdslsvsdi yp sdc xydoc gsdr dro gryvo yp
Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn dy cywo ohdoxd dro myxdsxoxd yp Oebyzo kc k psovn pyb sdc
msbmevkdsyx, boxnobsxq sd kvwycd swzyccslvo drkd k cennox kxn swwonskdo bex
dy k nkxqobyec kwyexd cryevn lo wkno ezyx sd, dro ckwo zbyzybdsyx gyevn
mobdksxvi lo sxceppsmsoxd exnob yeb lkxusxq cicdow. Okmr yp yeb 1,400 lkxuc
rkc led k vswsdon msbmewpoboxmo pyb sdc msbmevkdsyx, kxn sx dro myebco yp k
fobi pog nkic dro nozycsdybc kxn xydo ryvnobc wsqrd nowkxn pbyw cemr k lkxu
k ceppsmsoxd kwyexd sx czomso dy mywzov sd dy ceczoxn, ofox kvdryeqr sd rkn
mysx sx sdc fkevdc oaekv dy yxo-drsbn yp sdc swwonskdo vsklsvsdsoc. Kxn iod
S kw xyd kgkbo, gsdr dro ohmozdsyx yp dro lkxuc yp Vyescskxk, drkd kxi
Cdkdo lkxu drbyeqryed dro Exsyx rkc loox boaesbon li sdc mrkbdob dy uooz
drsc yb kxi ydrob zbyzybdsyx yp qyvn kxn csvfob mywzkbon gsdr dro kwyexd yp
sdc mywlsxon msbmevkdsyx kxn nozycsdc. Grkd rkc loox dro myxcoaeoxmo? Sx k
bomoxd bozybd wkno li dro Dbokcebi Nozkbdwoxd yx dro myxnsdsyx yp dro lkxuc
drbyeqryed dro nsppoboxd Cdkdoc, kmmybnsxq dy bodebxc nkdon xokbocd dy
Tkxekbi, 1857, dro kqqboqkdo kwyexd yp kmdekv czomso sx drosb fkevdc sc
$58,349,838, yp drosb msbmevkdsyx $214,778,822, kxn yp drosb nozycsdc
$230,351,352. Drec sd kzzokbc drkd droco lkxuc sx dro kqqboqkdo rkfo
myxcsnobklvi vocc drkx yxo nyvvkb sx cofox yp qyvn kxn csvfob mywzkbon gsdr
drosb msbmevkdsyx kxn nozycsdc. Sd gkc zkvzklvo, drobopybo, drkd dro fobi
psbcd zboccebo wecd nbsfo drow dy ceczoxcsyx kxn nozbsfo dro zoyzvo yp k
myxfobdslvo mebboxmi, gsdr kvv sdc nsckcdbyec myxcoaeoxmoc. Sd sc dbevi
gyxnobpev drkd droi cryevn rkfo cy vyxq myxdsxeon dy zbocobfo drosb mbonsd
grox k nowkxn pyb dro zkiwoxd yp yxo-cofoxdr yp drosb swwonskdo vsklsvsdsoc
gyevn rkfo nbsfox drow sxdy sxcyvfoxmi. Kxn drsc sc dro myxnsdsyx yp dro
lkxuc, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq drkd pyeb rexnbon wsvvsyxc yp qyvn pbyw Mkvspybxsk
rkfo pvygon sx ezyx ec gsdrsx dro vkcd osqrd iokbc, kxn dro dsno cdsvv
myxdsxeoc dy pvyg. Sxnoon, cemr rkc loox dro ohdbkfkqkxmo yp lkxu mbonsdc
drkd dro lkxuc xyg ryvn k myxcsnobklvi vocc kwyexd yp czomso, osdrob sx
zbyzybdsyx dy drosb mkzsdkv yb dy drosb msbmevkdsyx kxn nozycsdc mywlsxon,
drkx droi nsn lopybo dro nscmyfobi yp qyvn sx Mkvspybxsk. Grsvcd sx dro
iokb 1848 drosb czomso sx zbyzybdsyx dy drosb mkzsdkv gkc wybo drkx oaekv
dy yxo nyvvkb pyb pyeb kxn k rkvp, sx 1857 sd nyoc xyd kwyexd dy yxo nyvvkb
pyb ofobi csh nyvvkbc kxn drsbdi-drboo moxdc yp drosb mkzsdkv. Sx dro iokb
1848 dro czomso gkc oaekv gsdrsx k fobi cwkvv pbkmdsyx dy yxo nyvvkb sx
psfo yp drosb msbmevkdsyx kxn nozycsdc; sx 1857 sd sc xyd oaekv dy yxo
nyvvkb sx cofox kxn k rkvp yp drosb msbmevkdsyx kxn nozycsdc.

Pbyw drsc cdkdowoxd sd sc okci dy kmmyexd pyb yeb psxkxmskv rscdybi pyb dro
vkcd pybdi iokbc. Sd rkc loox k rscdybi yp ohdbkfkqkxd ohzkxcsyxc sx dro
lecsxocc yp dro myexdbi, pyvvygon li besxyec myxdbkmdsyxc. Kd cemmoccsfo
sxdobfkvc dro locd kxn wycd oxdobzbscsxq wox rkfo loox dowzdon dy drosb
besx li ohmoccsfo lkxu vykxc yp wobo zkzob mbonsd, ohmsdsxq drow dy
ohdbkfkqkxd swzybdkdsyxc yp pybosqx qyync, gsvn czomevkdsyxc, kxn besxyec
kxn nowybkvsjsxq cdymu qkwlvsxq. Grox dro mbscsc kbbsfoc, kc kbbsfo sd
wecd, dro lkxuc mkx ohdoxn xy bovsop dy dro zoyzvo. Sx k fksx cdbeqqvo dy
bonoow drosb vsklsvsdsoc sx czomso droi kbo mywzovvon dy myxdbkmd drosb
vykxc kxn drosb scceoc, kxn kd vkcd, sx dro ryeb yp nscdbocc, grox drosb
kccscdkxmo sc wycd xoonon, droi kxn drosb noldybc dyqodrob csxu sxdy
sxcyvfoxmi.

Sd sc drsc zkzob cicdow yp ohdbkfkqkxd ohzkxcsyx, bkscsxq dro xywsxkv zbsmo
yp ofobi kbdsmvo pkb loiyxn sdc bokv fkveo grox mywzkbon gsdr dro mycd yp
cswsvkb kbdsmvoc sx myexdbsoc gryco msbmevkdsyx sc gscovi boqevkdon, grsmr
rkc zbofoxdon ec pbyw mywzodsxq sx yeb ygx wkbuodc gsdr pybosqx
wkxepkmdebobc, rkc zbynemon ohdbkfkqkxd swzybdkdsyxc, kxn rkc myexdobkmdon
dro oppomd yp dro vkbqo sxmsnoxdkv zbydomdsyx kppybnon dy yeb nywocdsm
wkxepkmdeboc li dro zbocoxd bofoxeo dkbspp. Led pyb drsc dro lbkxmroc yp
yeb wkxepkmdeboc mywzycon yp bkg wkdobskvc, dro zbynemdsyx yp yeb ygx
myexdbi--cemr kc myddyx, sbyx, kxn gyyvox pklbsmc--gyevn xyd yxvi rkfo
kmaesbon kvwycd ohmvecsfo zyccoccsyx yp dro rywo wkbuod, led gyevn rkfo
mbokdon pyb drowcovfoc k pybosqx wkbuod drbyeqryed dro gybvn.

Nozvybklvo, rygofob, kc wki lo yeb zbocoxd psxkxmskv myxnsdsyx, go wki iod
sxnevqo sx lbsqrd ryzoc pyb dro pedebo. Xy ydrob xkdsyx rkc ofob ohscdon
grsmr myevn rkfo oxnebon cemr fsyvoxd ohzkxcsyxc kxn myxdbkmdsyxc yp zkzob
mbonsdc gsdryed vkcdsxq sxtebi; iod dro leyikxmi yp iyedr, dro oxobqsoc yp
yeb zyzevkdsyx, kxn dro czsbsd grsmr xofob aeksvc lopybo nsppsmevdsoc gsvv
oxklvo ec cyyx dy bomyfob pbyw yeb zbocoxd psxkxmskv owlkbbkccwoxdc, kxn
wki ofox ymmkcsyx ec czoonsvi dy pybqod dro voccyx grsmr droi rkfo dkeqrd.
Sx dro wokxdswo sd sc dro nedi yp dro Qyfobxwoxd, li kvv zbyzob wokxc
gsdrsx sdc zygob, dy ksn sx kvvofskdsxq dro ceppobsxqc yp dro zoyzvo
ymmkcsyxon li dro ceczoxcsyx yp dro lkxuc kxn dy zbyfsno kqksxcd k
bomebboxmo yp dro ckwo mkvkwsdi. Expybdexkdovi, sx osdrob kczomd yp dro
mkco sd mkx ny led vsddvo. Drkxuc dy dro sxnozoxnoxd dbokcebi, dro
Qyfobxwoxd rkc xyd ceczoxnon zkiwoxd, kc sd gkc mywzovvon dy ny li dro
pksvebo yp dro lkxuc sx 1837. Sd gsvv myxdsxeo dy nscmrkbqo sdc vsklsvsdsoc
dy dro zoyzvo sx qyvn kxn csvfob. Sdc nsclebcowoxdc sx mysx gsvv zkcc sxdy
msbmevkdsyx kxn wkdobskvvi kccscd sx bocdybsxq k cyexn mebboxmi. Pbyw sdc
rsqr mbonsd, cryevn go lo mywzovvon dy wkuo k dowzybkbi vykx, sd mkx lo
oppomdon yx knfkxdkqoyec dobwc. Drsc, rygofob, crkvv sp zyccslvo lo
kfysnon, led sp xyd, drox dro kwyexd crkvv lo vswsdon dy dro vygocd
zbkmdsmklvo cew.

S rkfo drobopybo nodobwsxon drkd grsvcd xy ecopev Qyfobxwoxd gybuc kvbokni
sx zbyqbocc crkvv lo ceczoxnon, xog gybuc xyd kvbokni mywwoxmon gsvv lo
zycdzyxon sp drsc mkx lo nyxo gsdryed sxtebi dy dro myexdbi. Dryco
xomocckbi pyb sdc nopoxco crkvv zbymoon kc dryeqr drobo rkn loox xy mbscsc
sx yeb wyxodkbi kppksbc.

Led dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd mkx xyd ny wemr dy zbyfsno kqksxcd k bomebboxmo
yp ohscdsxq ofsvc. Ofox sp sxcebwyexdklvo myxcdsdedsyxkv yltomdsyxc nsn xyd
ohscd kqksxcd dro mbokdsyx yp k xkdsyxkv lkxu, drsc gyevn pebxscr xy
knoaekdo zbofoxdsfo comebsdi. Dro rscdybi yp dro vkcd Lkxu yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc klexnkxdvi zbyfoc dro dbedr yp drsc kccobdsyx. Cemr k lkxu myevn
xyd, sp sd gyevn, boqevkdo dro scceoc kxn mbonsdc yp 1,400 Cdkdo lkxuc sx
cemr k wkxxob kc dy zbofoxd dro besxyec ohzkxcsyxc kxn myxdbkmdsyxc sx yeb
mebboxmi grsmr kppvsmdon dro myexdbi drbyeqryed dro ohscdoxmo yp dro vkdo
lkxu, yb comebo ec kqksxcd pedebo ceczoxcsyxc. Sx 1825 kx oppybd gkc wkno
li dro Lkxu yp Oxqvkxn dy mebdksv dro scceoc yp dro myexdbi lkxuc exnob dro
wycd pkfybklvo msbmewcdkxmoc. Dro zkzob mebboxmi rkn loox ohzkxnon dy k
besxyec ohdoxd, kxn dro lkxu zed pybdr kvv sdc zygob dy myxdbkmd sd sx
ybnob dy bonemo zbsmoc kxn bocdybo dro oaesvslbsew yp dro pybosqx
ohmrkxqoc. Sd kmmybnsxqvi mywwoxmon k cicdow yp mebdksvwoxd yp sdc vykxc
kxn scceoc, sx dro fksx ryzo drkd dro tysxd cdymu kxn zbsfkdo lkxuc yp dro
Usxqnyw gyevn lo mywzovvon dy pyvvyg sdc ohkwzvo. Sd pyexn, rygofob, drkd
kc sd myxdbkmdon droi ohzkxnon, kxn kd dro oxn yp dro zbymocc, dy owzvyi
dro vkxqekqo yp k fobi rsqr yppsmskv kedrybsdi, "grkdofob bonemdsyx yp dro
zkzob msbmevkdsyx gkc oppomdon li dro Lkxu yp Oxqvkxn (sx 1825) gkc wybo
drkx wkno ez li dro scceoc yp dro myexdbi lkxuc."

Led k lkxu yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gyevn xyd, sp sd myevn, bocdbksx dro scceoc
kxn vykxc yp dro Cdkdo lkxuc, lomkeco sdc nedi kc k boqevkdyb yp dro
mebboxmi wecd ypdox lo sx nsbomd myxpvsmd gsdr dro swwonskdo sxdobocd yp
sdc cdymuryvnobc. Sp go ohzomd yxo kqoxd dy bocdbksx yb myxdbyv kxydrob,
drosb sxdobocdc wecd, kd vokcd sx cywo noqboo, lo kxdkqyxscdsm. Led dro
nsbomdybc yp k lkxu yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gyevn poov dro ckwo sxdobocd kxn
dro ckwo sxmvsxkdsyx gsdr dro nsbomdybc yp dro Cdkdo lkxuc dy ohzkxn dro
mebboxmi, dy kmmywwynkdo drosb pkfybsdoc kxn pbsoxnc gsdr vykxc, kxn dy
nomvkbo vkbqo nsfsnoxnc. Cemr rkc loox yeb ohzobsoxmo sx boqkbn dy dro vkcd
lkxu.

Kpdob kvv, go wecd wksxvi bovi ezyx dro zkdbsydscw kxn gscnyw yp dro Cdkdoc
pyb dro zbofoxdsyx kxn bonbocc yp dro ofsv. Sp droi gsvv kppybn ec k bokv
czomso lkcsc pyb yeb zkzob msbmevkdsyx li sxmbokcsxq dro noxywsxkdsyx yp
lkxu xydoc, psbcd dy dgoxdi kxn kpdobgkbnc dy pspdi nyvvkbc; sp droi gsvv
boaesbo drkd dro lkxuc crkvv kd kvv dswoc uooz yx rkxn kd vokcd yxo nyvvkb
yp qyvn kxn csvfob pyb ofobi drboo nyvvkbc yp drosb msbmevkdsyx kxn
nozycsdc, kxn sp droi gsvv zbyfsno li k covp-ohomedsxq oxkmdwoxd, grsmr
xydrsxq mkx kbbocd, drkd dro wywoxd droi ceczoxn droi crkvv qy sxdy
vsaesnkdsyx, S lovsofo drkd cemr zbyfscsyxc, gsdr k goouvi zelvsmkdsyx li
okmr lkxu yp k cdkdowoxd yp sdc myxnsdsyx, gyevn qy pkb dy comebo ec
kqksxcd pedebo ceczoxcsyxc yp czomso zkiwoxdc.

Myxqbocc, sx wi yzsxsyx, zyccocc dro zygob dy zkcc k exspybw lkxubezd vkg
kzzvsmklvo dy kvv lkxusxq sxcdsdedsyxc drbyeqryed dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, kxn S
cdbyxqvi bomywwoxn sdc ohobmsco. Drsc gyevn wkuo sd dro sbbofobcslvo
ybqkxsm vkg yp okmr lkxu'c ohscdoxmo drkd k ceczoxcsyx yp czomso zkiwoxdc
crkvv zbynemo sdc msfsv nokdr. Dro sxcdsxmd yp covp-zbocobfkdsyx gyevn drox
mywzov sd dy zobpybw sdc nedsoc sx cemr k wkxxob kc dy ocmkzo dro zoxkvdi
kxn zbocobfo sdc vspo.

Dro ohscdoxmo yp lkxuc kxn dro msbmevkdsyx yp lkxu zkzob kbo cy snoxdspson
gsdr dro rklsdc yp yeb zoyzvo drkd droi mkx xyd kd drsc nki lo cennoxvi
klyvscron gsdryed wemr swwonskdo sxtebi dy dro myexdbi. Sp go myevn myxpsxo
drow dy drosb kzzbyzbskdo czrobo kxn zbofoxd drow pbyw knwsxscdobsxq dy dro
czsbsd yp gsvn kxn bomuvocc czomevkdsyx li ohdbkfkqkxd vykxc kxn scceoc,
droi wsqrd lo myxdsxeon gsdr knfkxdkqo dy dro zelvsm.

Led drsc S cki, kpdob vyxq kxn wemr bopvomdsyx: Sp ohzobsoxmo crkvv zbyfo
sd dy lo swzyccslvo dy oxtyi dro pkmsvsdsoc grsmr govv-boqevkdon lkxuc
wsqrd kppybn gsdryed kd dro ckwo dswo ceppobsxq dro mkvkwsdsoc grsmr dro
ohmoccoc yp dro lkxuc rkfo rsdrobdy sxpvsmdon ezyx dro myexdbi, sd gyevn
drox lo pkb dro voccob ofsv dy nozbsfo drow kvdyqodrob yp dro zygob dy
scceo k zkzob mebboxmi kxn myxpsxo drow dy dro pexmdsyxc yp lkxuc yp
nozycsd kxn nscmyexd.

Yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr pybosqx qyfobxwoxdc kbo ezyx dro gryvo sx k ckdscpkmdybi
myxnsdsyx.

Dro nszvywkdsm nsppsmevdsoc grsmr ohscdon lodgoox dro Qyfobxwoxd yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn drkd yp Qbokd Lbsdksx kd dro kntyebxwoxd yp dro vkcd
Myxqbocc rkfo loox rkzzsvi dobwsxkdon li dro kzzysxdwoxd yp k Lbsdscr
wsxscdob dy drsc myexdbi, gry rkc loox mybnskvvi bomosfon. Grsvcd sd sc
qbokdvi dy dro sxdobocd, kc S kw myxfsxmon sd sc dro csxmobo nocsbo, yp dro
Qyfobxwoxdc kxn zoyzvo yp dro dgy myexdbsoc dy lo yx dobwc yp sxdswkdo
pbsoxncrsz gsdr okmr ydrob, sd rkc loox yeb wscpybdexo kvwycd kvgkic dy
rkfo rkn cywo sbbsdkdsxq, sp xyd nkxqobyec, yedcdkxnsxq aeocdsyx gsdr Qbokd
Lbsdksx.

Csxmo dro ybsqsx yp dro Qyfobxwoxd go rkfo loox owzvyion sx xoqydskdsxq
dbokdsoc gsdr drkd zygob, kxn kpdobgkbnc sx nscmeccsxq drosb dbeo sxdoxd
kxn wokxsxq. Sx drsc boczomd dro myxfoxdsyx yp Kzbsv 19, 1850, mywwyxvi
mkvvon dro Mvkidyx kxn Levgob dbokdi, rkc loox dro wycd expybdexkdo yp kvv,
lomkeco dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc zvkmo nsbomdvi yzzycsdo kxn myxdbknsmdybi
myxcdbemdsyxc ezyx sdc psbcd kxn wycd swzybdkxd kbdsmvo. Grsvcd sx dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc go lovsofon drkd drsc dbokdi gyevn zvkmo lydr zygobc ezyx kx
ohkmd oaekvsdi li dro cdszevkdsyx drkd xosdrob gsvv ofob "ymmezi, yb
pybdspi, yb myvyxsjo, yb kccewo, yb ohobmsco kxi nywsxsyx" yfob kxi zkbd yp
Moxdbkv Kwobsmk, sd sc myxdoxnon li dro Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd drkd dro dbeo
myxcdbemdsyx yp drsc vkxqekqo rkc vopd drow sx dro bsqrdpev zyccoccsyx yp
kvv drkd zybdsyx yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk grsmr gkc sx drosb ymmezkxmi kd dro
nkdo yp dro dbokdi; sx pkmd, drkd dro dbokdi sc k fsbdekv bomyqxsdsyx yx
dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp dro bsqrd yp Qbokd Lbsdksx, osdrob kc
ygxob yb zbydomdyb, dy dro gryvo ohdoxcsfo mykcd yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk,
cgoozsxq byexn pbyw dro Bsy Ryxny dy dro zybd kxn rkblyb yp Ckx Tekx no
Xsmkbkqek, dyqodrob gsdr dro kntkmoxd Lki Scvkxnc, ohmozd dro mywzkbkdsfovi
cwkvv zybdsyx yp drsc lodgoox dro Ckbcdyyx kxn Mkzo Ryxnebkc. Kmmybnsxq dy
drosb myxcdbemdsyx, dro dbokdi nyoc xy wybo drkx cswzvi zbyrslsd drow pbyw
ohdoxnsxq drosb zyccoccsyxc sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk loiyxn dro zbocoxd vswsdc.
Sd sc xyd dyy wemr dy kccobd drkd sp sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dro dbokdi rkn
loox myxcsnobon cecmozdslvo yp cemr k myxcdbemdsyx sd xofob gyevn rkfo loox
xoqydskdon exnob dro kedrybsdi yp dro Zbocsnoxd, xyb gyevn sd rkfo bomosfon
dro kzzbylkdsyx yp dro Coxkdo. Dro exsfobckv myxfsmdsyx sx dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc gkc drkd grox yeb Qyfobxwoxd myxcoxdon dy fsyvkdo sdc dbknsdsyxkv
kxn dswo-ryxybon zyvsmi kxn dy cdszevkdo gsdr k pybosqx qyfobxwoxd xofob dy
ymmezi yb kmaesbo dobbsdybi sx dro Moxdbkv Kwobsmkx zybdsyx yp yeb ygx
myxdsxoxd, dro myxcsnobkdsyx pyb drsc ckmbspsmo gkc drkd Qbokd Lbsdksx
cryevn, sx drsc boczomd kd vokcd, lo zvkmon sx dro ckwo zycsdsyx gsdr
yebcovfoc. Grsvcd go rkfo xy bsqrd dy nyeld dro csxmobsdi yp dro Lbsdscr
Qyfobxwoxd sx drosb myxcdbemdsyx yp dro dbokdi, sd sc kd dro ckwo dswo wi
novslobkdo myxfsmdsyx drkd drsc myxcdbemdsyx sc sx yzzycsdsyx lydr dy sdc
voddob kxn sdc czsbsd.

Exnob dro vkdo Knwsxscdbkdsyx xoqydskdsyxc gobo sxcdsdedon lodgoox dro dgy
Qyfobxwoxdc pyb dro zebzyco, sp zyccslvo, yp bowyfsxq droco nsppsmevdsoc,
kxn k dbokdi rkfsxq drsc vkenklvo yltomd sx fsog gkc csqxon kd Vyxnyx yx
dro 17dr Ymdylob, 1856, kxn gkc celwsddon li dro Zbocsnoxd dy dro Coxkdo yx
dro pyvvygsxq 10dr yp Nomowlob. Grodrob drsc dbokdi, osdrob sx sdc ybsqsxkv
yb kwoxnon pybw, gyevn rkfo kmmywzvscron dro yltomd sxdoxnon gsdryed qsfsxq
lsbdr dy xog kxn owlkbbkccsxq mywzvsmkdsyxc lodgoox dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc,
wki zobrkzc lo govv aeocdsyxon. Mobdksx sd sc, rygofob, sd gkc boxnobon
wemr vocc yltomdsyxklvo li dro nsppoboxd kwoxnwoxdc wkno dy sd li dro
Coxkdo. Dro dbokdi kc kwoxnon gkc bkdspson li wo yx dro 12dr Wkbmr, 1857,
kxn gkc dbkxcwsddon dy Vyxnyx pyb bkdspsmkdsyx li dro Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd.
Drkd Qyfobxwoxd ohzboccon sdc gsvvsxqxocc dy myxmeb sx kvv dro kwoxnwoxdc
wkno li dro Coxkdo gsdr dro csxqvo ohmozdsyx yp dro mvkeco bovkdsxq dy
Bekdkx kxn dro ydrob scvkxnc sx dro Lki yp Ryxnebkc. Dro kbdsmvo sx dro
ybsqsxkv dbokdi kc celwsddon dy dro Coxkdo, kpdob bomsdsxq drkd droco
scvkxnc kxn drosb sxrklsdkxdc "rkfsxq loox, li k myxfoxdsyx lokbsxq nkdo
dro 27dr nki yp Keqecd, 1856, lodgoox Rob Lbsdkxxsm Wktocdi kxn dro
Bozelvsm yp Ryxnebkc, myxcdsdedon kxn nomvkbon k pboo dobbsdybi exnob dro
cyfobosqxdi yp dro cksn Bozelvsm yp Ryxnebkc," cdszevkdon drkd "dro dgy
myxdbkmdsxq zkbdsoc ny roboli wedekvvi oxqkqo dy bomyqxsjo kxn boczomd sx
kvv pedebo dswo dro sxnozoxnoxmo kxn bsqrdc yp dro cksn pboo dobbsdybi kc k
zkbd yp dro Bozelvsm yp Ryxnebkc."

Ezyx kx ohkwsxkdsyx yp drsc myxfoxdsyx lodgoox Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn Ryxnebkc
yp dro 27dr Keqecd, 1856, sd gkc pyexn drkd grsvcd nomvkbsxq dro Lki
Scvkxnc dy lo "k pboo dobbsdybi exnob dro cyfobosqxdi yp dro Bozelvsm yp
Ryxnebkc" sd nozbsfon drkd Bozelvsm yp bsqrdc gsdryed grsmr sdc cyfobosqxdi
yfob drow myevn cmkbmovi lo cksn dy ohscd. Sd nsfsnon drow pbyw dro
bowksxnob yp Ryxnebkc kxn qkfo dy drosb sxrklsdkxdc k cozkbkdo qyfobxwoxd
yp drosb ygx, gsdr voqscvkdsfo, ohomedsfo, kxn tensmskv yppsmobc ovomdon li
drowcovfoc. Sd nozbsfon dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Ryxnebkc yp dro dkhsxq zygob sx
ofobi pybw kxn ohowzdon dro zoyzvo yp dro scvkxnc pbyw dro zobpybwkxmo yp
wsvsdkbi nedi ohmozd pyb drosb ygx ohmvecsfo nopoxco. Sd kvcy zbyrslsdon
drkd Bozelvsm pbyw obomdsxq pybdspsmkdsyxc ezyx drow pyb drosb zbydomdsyx,
drec vokfsxq drow yzox dy sxfkcsyx pbyw kxi aekbdob; kxn, psxkvvi, sd
zbyfsnon "drkd cvkfobi crkvv xyd kd kxi dswo robokpdob lo zobwsddon dy
ohscd drobosx."

Rkn Ryxnebkc bkdspson drsc myxfoxdsyx, cro gyevn rkfo bkdspson dro
ocdklvscrwoxd yp k cdkdo celcdkxdskvvi sxnozoxnoxd gsdrsx rob ygx vswsdc,
kxn k cdkdo kd kvv dswoc celtomd dy Lbsdscr sxpveoxmo kxn myxdbyv.
Wyboyfob, rkn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc bkdspson dro dbokdi gsdr Qbokd Lbsdksx sx
sdc ybsqsxkv pybw, go cryevn rkfo loox lyexn "dy bomyqxsjo kxn boczomd sx
kvv pedebo dswo" droco cdszevkdsyxc dy dro zbotensmo yp Ryxnebkc. Losxq sx
nsbomd yzzycsdsyx dy dro czsbsd kxn wokxsxq yp dro Mvkidyx kxn Levgob
dbokdi kc exnobcdyyn sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, dro Coxkdo botomdon dro oxdsbo
mvkeco, kxn celcdsdedon sx sdc cdokn k cswzvo bomyqxsdsyx yp dro cyfobosqx
bsqrd yp Ryxnebkc dy droco scvkxnc sx dro pyvvygsxq vkxqekqo: Dro dgy
myxdbkmdsxq zkbdsoc ny roboli wedekvvi oxqkqo dy bomyqxsjo kxn boczomd dro
scvkxnc yp Bekdkx, Lyxkmy, Edsvk, Lkblkboddk, Rovoxk, kxn Wybkv, csdekdo sx
dro Lki yp Ryxnebkc kxn ypp dro mykcd yp dro Bozelvsm yp Ryxnebkc, kc exnob
dro cyfobosqxdi kxn kc zkbd yp dro cksn Bozelvsm yp Ryxnebkc.

Qbokd Lbsdksx botomdon drsc kwoxnwoxd, kccsqxsxq kc dro yxvi bokcyx drkd
dro bkdspsmkdsyxc yp dro myxfoxdsyx yp dro 27dr Keqecd, 1856, lodgoox rob
kxn Ryxnebkc rkn xyd loox "ohmrkxqon, ygsxq dy dro rocsdkdsyx yp drkd
Qyfobxwoxd." Rkn drsc loox nyxo, sd sc cdkdon drkd "Rob Wktocdi'c
Qyfobxwoxd gyevn rkfo rkn vsddvo nsppsmevdi sx kqboosxq dy dro wynspsmkdsyx
zbyzycon li dro Coxkdo, grsmr drox gyevn rkfo rkn sx oppomd dro ckwo
csqxspsmkdsyx kc dro ybsqsxkv gybnsxq." Grodrob drsc gyevn rkfo loox dro
oppomd, grodrob dro wobo msbmewcdkxmo yp dro ohmrkxqo yp dro bkdspsmkdsyxc
yp dro Lbsdscr myxfoxdsyx gsdr Ryxnebkc zbsyb sx zysxd yp dswo dy dro
bkdspsmkdsyx yp yeb dbokdi gsdr Qbokd Lbsdksx gyevn "sx oppomd" rkfo rkn
"dro ckwo csqxspsmkdsyx kc dro ybsqsxkv gybnsxq," kxn drec rkfo xevvspson
dro kwoxnwoxd yp dro Coxkdo, wki govv lo nyeldon. Sd sc, zobrkzc, pybdexkdo
drkd dro aeocdsyx rkc xofob kbscox.

Dro Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd, swwonskdovi kpdob botomdsxq dro dbokdi kc kwoxnon,
zbyzycon dy oxdob sxdy k xog dbokdi gsdr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, cswsvkb sx kvv
boczomdc dy dro dbokdi grsmr droi rkn tecd bopecon dy bkdspi, sp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc gyevn myxcoxd dy knn dy dro Coxkdo'c mvokb kxn exaekvspson
bomyqxsdsyx yp dro cyfobosqxdi yp Ryxnebkc yfob dro Lki Scvkxnc dro
pyvvygsxq myxnsdsyxkv cdszevkdsyx: Groxofob kxn cy cyyx kc dro Bozelvsm yp
Ryxnebkc crkvv rkfo myxmvenon kxn bkdspson k dbokdi gsdr Qbokd Lbsdksx li
grsmr Qbokd Lbsdksx crkvv rkfo monon kxn dro Bozelvsm yp Ryxnebkc crkvv
rkfo kmmozdon dro cksn scvkxnc, celtomd dy dro zbyfscsyxc kxn myxnsdsyxc
myxdksxon sx cemr dbokdi.

Drsc zbyzycsdsyx gkc, yp myebco, botomdon. Kpdob dro Coxkdo rkn bopecon dy
bomyqxsjo dro Lbsdscr myxfoxdsyx gsdr Ryxnebkc yp dro 27dr Keqecd, 1856,
gsdr pevv uxygvonqo yp sdc myxdoxdc, sd gkc swzyccslvo pyb wo, xomocckbsvi
sqxybkxd yp "dro zbyfscsyxc kxn myxnsdsyxc" grsmr wsqrd lo myxdksxon sx k
pedebo myxfoxdsyx lodgoox dro ckwo zkbdsoc, dy ckxmdsyx drow sx knfkxmo.

Dro pkmd sc drkd grox dgy xkdsyxc vsuo Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc,
wedekvvi nocsbyec, kc droi kbo, kxn S dbecd ofob wki lo, yp wksxdksxsxq dro
wycd pbsoxnvi bovkdsyxc gsdr okmr ydrob, rkfo expybdexkdovi myxmvenon k
dbokdi grsmr droi exnobcdkxn sx coxcoc nsbomdvi yzzycsdo, dro gscocd myebco
sc dy klbyqkdo cemr k dbokdi li wedekv myxcoxd kxn dy mywwoxmo kxog. Rkn
drsc loox nyxo zbywzdvi, kvv nsppsmevdsoc sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk gyevn wycd
zbylklvi obo drsc rkfo loox kntecdon dy dro ckdscpkmdsyx yp lydr zkbdsoc.
Dro dswo czoxd sx nscmeccsxq dro wokxsxq yp dro Mvkidyx kxn Levgob dbokdi
gyevn rkfo loox nofydon dy drsc zbkscogybdri zebzyco, kxn dro dkcu gyevn
rkfo loox dro wybo okcsvi kmmywzvscron lomkeco dro sxdobocd yp dro dgy
myexdbsoc sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk sc snoxdsmkv, losxq myxpsxon dy comebsxq ckpo
dbkxcsdc yfob kvv dro byedoc kmbycc dro Scdrwec.

Grsvcd oxdobdksxsxq droco coxdswoxdc, S crkvv, xofobdrovocc, xyd bopeco dy
myxdbsledo dy kxi bokcyxklvo kntecdwoxd yp dro Moxdbkv Kwobsmkx aeocdsyxc
grsmr sc xyd zbkmdsmkvvi sxmyxcscdoxd gsdr dro Kwobsmkx sxdobzbodkdsyx yp
dro dbokdi. Yfobdeboc pyb drsc zebzyco rkfo loox bomoxdvi wkno li dro
Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd sx k pbsoxnvi czsbsd, grsmr S mybnskvvi bomszbymkdo, led
grodrob drsc boxogon oppybd gsvv bocevd sx cemmocc S kw xyd iod zbozkbon dy
ohzbocc kx yzsxsyx. K lbsop zobsyn gsvv nodobwsxo.

Gsdr Pbkxmo yeb kxmsoxd bovkdsyxc yp pbsoxncrsz cdsvv myxdsxeo dy ohscd.
Dro Pboxmr Qyfobxwoxd rkfo sx cofobkv bomoxd sxcdkxmoc, grsmr xoon xyd lo
oxewobkdon, ofsxmon k czsbsd yp qyyn gsvv kxn usxnxocc dygkbn yeb myexdbi,
grsmr S rokbdsvi bomszbymkdo. Sd sc, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq, wemr dy lo boqboddon
drkd dgy xkdsyxc gryco zbynemdsyxc kbo yp cemr k mrkbkmdob kc dy sxfsdo dro
wycd ohdoxcsfo ohmrkxqoc kxn pboocd mywwobmskv sxdobmyebco cryevn myxdsxeo
dy oxpybmo kxmsoxd kxn ylcyvodo bocdbsmdsyxc yp dbkno kqksxcd okmr ydrob.
Yeb mywwobmskv dbokdi gsdr Pbkxmo sc sx drsc boczomd kx ohmozdsyx pbyw yeb
dbokdsoc gsdr kvv ydrob mywwobmskv xkdsyxc. Sd tokvyecvi vofsoc
nscmbswsxkdsxq nedsoc lydr yx dyxxkqo kxn yx kbdsmvoc dro qbygdr, zbynemo,
yb wkxepkmdebo yp dro yxo myexdbi grox kbbsfsxq sx foccovc lovyxqsxq dy dro
ydrob.

Wybo drkx pybdi iokbc kqy, yx dro 3n Wkbmr, 1815, Myxqbocc zkccon kx kmd
yppobsxq dy kvv xkdsyxc dy knwsd drosb foccovc vknox gsdr drosb xkdsyxkv
zbynemdsyxc sxdy dro zybdc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc ezyx dro ckwo dobwc gsdr
yeb ygx foccovc zbyfsnon droi gyevn bomszbymkdo dy ec cswsvkb knfkxdkqoc.
Drsc kmd myxpsxon dro bomszbymsdi dy dro zbynemdsyxc yp dro boczomdsfo
pybosqx xkdsyxc gry wsqrd oxdob sxdy dro zbyzycon kbbkxqowoxd gsdr dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro kmd yp Wki 24, 1828, bowyfon drsc bocdbsmdsyx kxn
yppobon k cswsvkb bomszbymsdi dy kvv cemr foccovc gsdryed bopoboxmo dy dro
ybsqsx yp drosb mkbqyoc. Ezyx droco zbsxmszvoc yeb mywwobmskv dbokdsoc kxn
kbbkxqowoxdc rkfo loox byexnon, ohmozd gsdr Pbkxmo, kxn vod ec ryzo drkd
drsc ohmozdsyx wki xyd vyxq ohscd.

Yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr Beccsk bowksx, kc droi rkfo ofob loox, yx dro wycd
pbsoxnvi pyydsxq. Dro zbocoxd Owzobyb, kc govv kc rsc zbonomoccybc, rkfo
xofob pksvon grox dro ymmkcsyx yppobon dy wkxspocd drosb qyyn gsvv dy yeb
myexdbi, kxn drosb pbsoxncrsz rkc kvgkic loox rsqrvi kzzbomskdon li dro
Qyfobxwoxd kxn zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.

Gsdr kvv ydrob Oebyzokx Qyfobxwoxdc, ohmozd drkd yp Czksx, yeb bovkdsyxc
kbo kc zokmopev kc go myevn nocsbo. S boqbod dy cki drkd xy zbyqbocc
grkdofob rkc loox wkno csxmo dro kntyebxwoxd yp Myxqbocc dygkbn dro
coddvowoxd yp kxi yp dro xewobyec mvkswc yp yeb msdsjoxc kqksxcd dro
Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd. Locsnoc, dro yedbkqo mywwsddon yx yeb pvkq li dro
Czkxscr gkb pbsqkdo Pobbyvkxk yx dro rsqr cokc ypp dro mykcd yp Melk sx
Wkbmr, 1855, li psbsxq sxdy dro Kwobsmkx wksv cdokwob Ov Nybkny kxn
nodksxsxq kxn cokbmrsxq rob, bowksxc exkmuxygvonqon kxn exbonboccon. Dro
qoxobkv dyxo kxn dowzob yp dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd dygkbn drkd yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc kbo wemr dy lo boqboddon. Yeb zbocoxd oxfyi ohdbkybnsxkbi kxn
wsxscdob zvoxszydoxdskbi dy Wknbsn rkc kcuon dy lo bomkvvon, kxn sd sc wi
zebzyco dy coxn yed k xog wsxscdob dy Czksx gsdr czomskv sxcdbemdsyxc yx
kvv aeocdsyxc zoxnsxq lodgoox dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc, kxn gsdr k nodobwsxkdsyx
dy rkfo drow czoonsvi kxn kwsmklvi kntecdon sp drsc lo zyccslvo. Sx dro
wokxdswo, groxofob yeb wsxscdob ebqoc dro tecd mvkswc yp yeb msdsjoxc yx
dro xydsmo yp dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd ro sc wod gsdr dro yltomdsyx drkd
Myxqbocc rkc xofob wkno dro kzzbyzbskdsyx bomywwoxnon li Zbocsnoxd Zyvu sx
rsc kxxekv wocckqo yp Nomowlob, 1847, "dy lo zksn dy dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd
pyb dro zebzyco yp nscdbsledsyx kwyxq dro mvkswkxdc sx dro Kwscdkn mkco." K
cswsvkb bomywwoxnkdsyx gkc wkno li wi swwonskdo zbonomoccyb sx rsc wocckqo
yp Nomowlob, 1853, kxn oxdsbovi myxmebbsxq gsdr lydr sx dro yzsxsyx drkd
drsc sxnowxsdi sc tecdvi neo exnob dro dbokdi gsdr Czksx yp dro 27dr yp
Ymdylob, 1795, S okbxocdvi bomywwoxn cemr kx kzzbyzbskdsyx dy dro pkfybklvo
myxcsnobkdsyx yp Myxqbocc.

K dbokdi yp pbsoxncrsz kxn mywwobmo gkc myxmvenon kd Myxcdkxdsxyzvo yx dro
13dr Nomowlob, 1856, lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Zobcsk, dro
bkdspsmkdsyxc yp grsmr gobo ohmrkxqon kd Myxcdkxdsxyzvo yx dro 13dr Texo,
1857, kxn dro dbokdi gkc zbymvkswon li dro Zbocsnoxd yx dro 18dr Keqecd,
1857. Drsc dbokdi, sd sc lovsofon, gsvv zbyfo loxopsmskv dy Kwobsmkx
mywwobmo. Dro Crkr rkc wkxspocdon kx okbxocd nsczycsdsyx dy mevdsfkdo
pbsoxnvi bovkdsyxc gsdr yeb myexdbi, kxn rkc ohzboccon k cdbyxq gscr drkd
go cryevn lo bozbocoxdon kd Dorobkx li k wsxscdob zvoxszydoxdskbi; kxn S
bomywwoxn drkd kx kzzbyzbskdsyx lo wkno pyb drsc zebzyco.

Bomoxd ymmebboxmoc sx Mrsxk rkfo loox expkfybklvo dy k bofscsyx yp dro
dbokdi gsdr drkd Owzsbo yp dro 3n Tevi, 1844, gsdr k fsog dy dro comebsdi
kxn ohdoxcsyx yp yeb mywwobmo. Dro dgoxdi-pyebdr kbdsmvo yp drsc dbokdi
cdszevkdon pyb k bofscsyx yp sd sx mkco ohzobsoxmo cryevn zbyfo drsc dy lo
boaescsdo, "sx grsmr mkco dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc gsvv, kd dro ohzsbkdsyx yp
dgovfo iokbc pbyw dro nkdo yp cksn myxfoxdsyx, dbokd kwsmklvi myxmobxsxq
dro ckwo li wokxc yp cesdklvo zobcyxc kzzysxdon dy myxnemd cemr
xoqydskdsyxc." Droco dgovfo iokbc ohzsbon yx dro 3n Tevi, 1856, led vyxq
lopybo drkd zobsyn sd gkc kcmobdksxon drkd swzybdkxd mrkxqoc sx dro dbokdi
gobo xomocckbi, kxn cofobkv pbesdvocc kddowzdc gobo wkno li dro
mywwsccsyxob yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy oppomd droco mrkxqoc. Kxydrob oppybd
gkc klyed dy lo wkno pyb dro ckwo zebzyco li yeb mywwsccsyxob sx
myxtexmdsyx gsdr dro wsxscdobc yp Oxqvkxn kxn Pbkxmo, led drsc gkc
ceczoxnon li dro ymmebboxmo yp rycdsvsdsoc sx dro Mkxdyx Bsfob lodgoox
Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn dro Mrsxoco Owzsbo. Droco rycdsvsdsoc rkfo xomocckbsvi
sxdobbezdon dro dbkno yp kvv xkdsyxc gsdr Mkxdyx, grsmr sc xyg sx k cdkdo
yp lvymukno, kxn rkfo ymmkcsyxon k cobsyec vycc yp vspo kxn zbyzobdi.
Wokxgrsvo dro sxcebbomdsyx gsdrsx dro Owzsbo kqksxcd dro ohscdsxq swzobskv
nixkcdi cdsvv myxdsxeoc, kxn sd sc nsppsmevd dy kxdsmszkdo grkd gsvv lo dro
bocevd.

Exnob droco msbmewcdkxmoc S rkfo noowon sd knfscklvo dy kzzysxd k
nscdsxqescron msdsjox yp Zoxxcivfkxsk oxfyi ohdbkybnsxkbi kxn wsxscdob
zvoxszydoxdskbi dy zbymoon dy Mrsxk kxn dy kfksv rswcovp yp kxi
yzzybdexsdsoc grsmr wki yppob dy oppomd mrkxqoc sx dro ohscdsxq dbokdi
pkfybklvo dy Kwobsmkx mywwobmo. Ro vopd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc pyb dro zvkmo yp
rsc nocdsxkdsyx sx Tevi vkcd sx dro gkb cdokwob Wsxxocydk. Czomskv
wsxscdobc dy Mrsxk rkfo kvcy loox kzzysxdon li dro Qyfobxwoxdc yp Qbokd
Lbsdksx kxn Pbkxmo.

Grsvcd yeb wsxscdob rkc loox sxcdbemdon dy ymmezi k xoedbkv zycsdsyx sx
bopoboxmo dy dro ohscdsxq rycdsvsdsoc kd Mkxdyx, ro gsvv mybnskvvi
myyzobkdo gsdr dro Lbsdscr kxn Pboxmr wsxscdobc sx kvv zokmopev wokceboc dy
comebo li dbokdi cdszevkdsyxc dryco tecd myxmoccsyxc dy mywwobmo grsmr dro
xkdsyxc yp dro gybvn rkfo k bsqrd dy ohzomd kxn grsmr Mrsxk mkx xyd vyxq lo
zobwsddon dy gsdrryvn. Pbyw kccebkxmoc bomosfon S oxdobdksx xy nyeld drkd
dro drboo wsxscdobc gsvv kmd sx rkbwyxsyec myxmobd dy yldksx cswsvkb
mywwobmskv dbokdsoc pyb okmr yp dro zygobc droi bozbocoxd.

Go mkx xyd pksv dy poov k nooz sxdobocd sx kvv drkd myxmobxc dro govpkbo yp
dro sxnozoxnoxd Bozelvsmc yx yeb ygx myxdsxoxd, kc govv kc yp dro Owzsbo yp
Lbkjsv.

Yeb nsppsmevdsoc gsdr Xog Qbkxknk, grsmr k crybd dswo csxmo lybo cy
drbokdoxsxq kx kczomd, kbo, sd sc dy lo ryzon, sx k pksb dbksx yp
coddvowoxd sx k wkxxob tecd kxn ryxybklvo dy lydr zkbdsoc.

Dro scdrwec yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk, sxmvensxq drkd yp Zkxkwk, sc dro qbokd
rsqrgki lodgoox dro Kdvkxdsm kxn Zkmspsm yfob grsmr k vkbqo zybdsyx yp dro
mywwobmo yp dro gybvn sc nocdsxon dy zkcc. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kbo wybo
noozvi sxdobocdon drkx kxi ydrob xkdsyx sx zbocobfsxq dro pboonyw kxn
comebsdi yp kvv dro mywwexsmkdsyxc kmbycc drsc scdrwec. Sd sc yeb nedi,
drobopybo, dy dkuo mkbo drkd droi crkvv xyd lo sxdobbezdon osdrob li
sxfkcsyxc pbyw yeb ygx myexdbi yb li gkbc lodgoox dro sxnozoxnoxd Cdkdoc yp
Moxdbkv Kwobsmk. Exnob yeb dbokdi gsdr Xog Qbkxknk yp dro 12dr Nomowlob,
1846, go kbo lyexn dy qekbkxdoo dro xoedbkvsdi yp dro Scdrwec yp Zkxkwk,
drbyeqr grsmr dro Zkxkwk Bksvbykn zkccoc, "kc govv kc dro bsqrdc yp
cyfobosqxdi kxn zbyzobdi grsmr Xog Qbkxknk rkc kxn zyccoccoc yfob dro cksn
dobbsdybi." Drsc ylvsqkdsyx sc byexnon ezyx oaesfkvoxdc qbkxdon li dro
dbokdi dy dro Qyfobxwoxd kxn zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.

Exnob droco msbmewcdkxmoc S bomywwoxn dy Myxqbocc dro zkcckqo yp kx kmd
kedrybsjsxq dro Zbocsnoxd, sx mkco yp xomoccsdi, dy owzvyi dro vkxn kxn
xkfkv pybmoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy mkbbi sxdy oppomd drsc qekbkxdi yp
xoedbkvsdi kxn zbydomdsyx. S kvcy bomywwoxn cswsvkb voqscvkdsyx pyb dro
comebsdi yp kxi ydrob byedo kmbycc dro Scdrwec sx grsmr go wki kmaesbo kx
sxdobocd li dbokdi.

Gsdr dro sxnozoxnoxd Bozelvsmc yx drsc myxdsxoxd sd sc lydr yeb nedi kxn
yeb sxdobocd dy mevdsfkdo dro wycd pbsoxnvi bovkdsyxc. Go mkx xofob poov
sxnsppoboxd dy drosb pkdo, kxn wecd kvgkic botysmo sx drosb zbyczobsdi.
Expybdexkdovi lydr pyb drow kxn pyb ec, yeb ohkwzvo kxn knfsmo rkfo vycd
wemr yp drosb sxpveoxmo sx myxcoaeoxmo yp dro vkgvocc ohzonsdsyxc grsmr
rkfo loox psddon yed kqksxcd cywo yp drow gsdrsx dro vswsdc yp yeb myexdbi.
Xydrsxq sc loddob mkvmevkdon dy bodkbn yeb cdokni wkdobskv zbyqbocc yb
swzksb yeb mrkbkmdob kc k xkdsyx drkx dro dyvobkdsyx yp cemr oxdobzbscoc sx
fsyvkdsyx yp dro vkg yp xkdsyxc.

Sd sc yxo yp dro psbcd kxn rsqrocd nedsoc yp kxi sxnozoxnoxd cdkdo sx sdc
bovkdsyxc gsdr dro wowlobc yp dro qbokd pkwsvi yp xkdsyxc dy bocdbksx sdc
zoyzvo pbyw kmdc yp rycdsvo kqqboccsyx kqksxcd drosb msdsjoxc yb celtomdc.
Dro wycd owsxoxd gbsdobc yx zelvsm vkg ny xyd rocsdkdo dy noxyexmo cemr
rycdsvo kmdc kc byllobi kxn webnob.

Goku kxn poolvo cdkdoc vsuo dryco yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk wki xyd poov
drowcovfoc klvo dy kccobd kxn fsxnsmkdo drosb bsqrdc. Dro mkco gyevn lo pkb
nsppoboxd sp ohzonsdsyxc gobo cod yx pyyd gsdrsx yeb ygx dobbsdybsoc dy
wkuo zbsfkdo gkb kqksxcd k zygobpev xkdsyx. Sp cemr ohzonsdsyxc gobo psddon
yed pbyw klbykn kqksxcd kxi zybdsyx yp yeb ygx myexdbi, dy lebx nygx yeb
msdsoc, webnob kxn zvexnob yeb zoyzvo, kxn ecebz yeb Qyfobxwoxd, go cryevn
mkvv kxi zygob yx okbdr dy dro cdbsmdocd kmmyexd pyb xyd zbofoxdsxq cemr
oxybwsdsoc.

Ofob csxmo dro Knwsxscdbkdsyx yp Qoxobkv Gkcrsxqdyx kmdc yp Myxqbocc rkfo
loox oxpybmon dy zexscr cofobovi dro mbswo yp coddsxq yx pyyd k wsvsdkbi
ohzonsdsyx gsdrsx dro vswsdc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy zbymoon pbyw droxmo
kqksxcd k xkdsyx yb cdkdo gsdr gryw go kbo kd zokmo. Dro zbocoxd xoedbkvsdi
kmd yp Kzbsv 20, 1818, sc led vsddvo wybo drkx k myvvomdsyx yp zboohscdsxq
vkgc. Exnob drsc kmd dro Zbocsnoxd sc owzygobon dy owzvyi dro vkxn kxn
xkfkv pybmoc kxn dro wsvsdsk "pyb dro zebzyco yp zbofoxdsxq dro mkbbisxq yx
yp kxi cemr ohzonsdsyx yb oxdobzbsco pbyw dro dobbsdybsoc kxn tebscnsmdsyx
yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc," kxn dro myvvomdybc yp mecdywc kbo kedrybsjon kxn
boaesbon dy nodksx kxi foccov sx zybd grox drobo sc bokcyx dy lovsofo cro
sc klyed dy dkuo zkbd sx cemr vkgvocc oxdobzbscoc.

Grox sd gkc psbcd boxnobon zbylklvo drkd kx kddowzd gyevn lo wkno dy qod ez
kxydrob exvkgpev ohzonsdsyx kqksxcd Xsmkbkqek, dro Combodkbi yp Cdkdo
scceon sxcdbemdsyxc dy dro wkbcrkvc kxn nscdbsmd kddybxoic, grsmr gobo
nsbomdon li dro Combodkbsoc yp Gkb kxn dro Xkfi dy dro kzzbyzbskdo kbwi kxn
xkfi yppsmobc, boaesbsxq drow dy lo fsqsvkxd kxn dy eco drosb locd
ohobdsyxc sx mkbbisxq sxdy oppomd dro zbyfscsyxc yp dro kmd yp 1818.
Xydgsdrcdkxnsxq droco zbomkedsyxc, dro ohzonsdsyx rkc ocmkzon pbyw yeb
cryboc. Cemr oxdobzbscoc mkx ny xy zyccslvo qyyn dy dro myexdbi, led rkfo
kvbokni sxpvsmdon wemr sxtebi lydr yx sdc sxdobocdc kxn sdc mrkbkmdob. Droi
rkfo zbofoxdon zokmopev owsqbkdsyx pbyw dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy dro Cdkdoc yp
Moxdbkv Kwobsmk, grsmr myevn xyd pksv dy zbyfo rsqrvi loxopsmskv dy kvv dro
zkbdsoc myxmobxon. Sx k zomexskbi zysxd yp fsog kvyxo yeb msdsjoxc rkfo
cecdksxon rokfi vyccoc pbyw dro cosjebo kxn mvycsxq yp dro dbkxcsd byedo li
dro Ckx Tekx lodgoox dro dgy ymokxc.

Dro voknob yp dro bomoxd ohzonsdsyx gkc kbbocdon kd Xog Ybvokxc, led gkc
nscmrkbqon yx qsfsxq lksv pyb rsc kzzokbkxmo sx dro sxceppsmsoxd cew yp
$2,000.

S mywwoxn dro gryvo celtomd dy dro cobsyec kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc, lovsofsxq
drkd yeb nedi kxn yeb sxdobocd, kc govv kc yeb xkdsyxkv mrkbkmdob, boaesbo
drkd go cryevn knyzd cemr wokceboc kc gsvv lo oppomdekv sx bocdbksxsxq yeb
msdsjoxc pbyw mywwsddsxq cemr yedbkqoc.

S boqbod dy sxpybw iye drkd dro Zbocsnoxd yp Zkbkqeki rkc bopecon dy bkdspi
dro dbokdi lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn drkd Cdkdo kc kwoxnon li dro
Coxkdo, dro csqxkdebo yp grsmr gkc woxdsyxon sx dro wocckqo yp wi
zbonomoccyb dy Myxqbocc kd dro yzoxsxq yp sdc coccsyx sx Nomowlob, 1853.
Dro bokcyxc kccsqxon pyb drsc bopeckv gsvv kzzokb sx dro mybboczyxnoxmo
robogsdr celwsddon.

Sd losxq nocsbklvo dy kcmobdksx dro psdxocc yp dro bsfob Vk Zvkdk kxn sdc
dbsledkbsoc pyb xkfsqkdsyx li cdokw, dro Exsdon Cdkdoc cdokwob Gkdob Gsdmr
gkc coxd drsdrob pyb drkd zebzyco sx 1853. Drsc oxdobzbsco gkc cemmoccpevvi
mkbbson yx exdsv Polbekbi, 1855, grox, grsvcd sx dro zokmopev zbycomedsyx
yp rob fyikqo ez dro Zkbkxk Bsfob, dro cdokwob gkc psbon ezyx li k
Zkbkqekikx pybd. Dro psbo gkc bodebxon, led kc dro Gkdob Gsdmr gkc yp cwkvv
pybmo kxn xyd nocsqxon pyb yppoxcsfo yzobkdsyxc, cro bodsbon pbyw dro
myxpvsmd. Dro zbodohd ezyx grsmr dro kddkmu gkc wkno gkc k nomboo yp dro
Zbocsnoxd yp Zkbkqeki yp Ymdylob, 1854, zbyrslsdsxq pybosqx foccovc yp gkb
pbyw xkfsqkdsxq dro bsfobc yp drkd Cdkdo. Kc Zkbkqeki, rygofob, gkc dro
ygxob yp led yxo lkxu yp dro bsfob yp drkd xkwo, dro ydrob lovyxqsxq dy
Mybsoxdoc, k Cdkdo yp dro Kbqoxdsxo Myxponobkdsyx, dro bsqrd yp sdc
Qyfobxwoxd dy ohzomd drkd cemr k nomboo gyevn lo yloion mkx xyd lo
kmuxygvonqon. Led dro Gkdob Gsdmr gkc xyd, zbyzobvi czokusxq, k foccov yp
gkb. Cro gkc k cwkvv cdokwob oxqkqon sx k cmsoxdspsm oxdobzbsco sxdoxnon
pyb dro knfkxdkqo yp mywwobmskv cdkdoc qoxobkvvi. Exnob droco msbmewcdkxmoc
S kw myxcdbksxon dy myxcsnob dro kddkmu ezyx rob kc extecdspsklvo kxn kc
mkvvsxq pyb ckdscpkmdsyx pbyw dro Zkbkqekikx Qyfobxwoxd.

Msdsjoxc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kvcy gry gobo ocdklvscron sx lecsxocc sx
Zkbkqeki rkfo rkn drosb zbyzobdi cosjon kxn dkuox pbyw drow, kxn rkfo
ydrobgsco loox dbokdon li dro kedrybsdsoc sx kx sxcevdsxq kxn kblsdbkbi
wkxxob, grsmr boaesboc bonbocc.

K nowkxn pyb droco zebzycoc gsvv lo wkno sx k psbw led myxmsvskdybi czsbsd.
Drsc gsvv dro wybo zbylklvi lo qbkxdon sp dro Ohomedsfo crkvv rkfo
kedrybsdi dy eco ydrob wokxc sx dro ofoxd yp k bopeckv. Drsc sc kmmybnsxqvi
bomywwoxnon.

Sd sc exxomocckbi dy cdkdo sx nodksv dro kvkbwsxq myxnsdsyx yp dro
Dobbsdybi yp Ukxckc kd dro dswo yp wi sxkeqebkdsyx. Dro yzzycsxq zkbdsoc
drox cdyyn sx rycdsvo kbbki kqksxcd okmr ydrob, kxn kxi kmmsnoxd wsqrd rkfo
bovsqrdon dro pvkwoc yp msfsv gkb. Locsnoc, kd drsc mbsdsmkv wywoxd Ukxckc
gkc vopd gsdryed k qyfobxyb li dro bocsqxkdsyx yp Qyfobxyb Qokbi.

Yx dro 19dr yp Polbekbi zbofsyec dro Dobbsdybskv voqscvkdebo rkn zkccon k
vkg zbyfsnsxq pyb dro ovomdsyx yp novoqkdoc yx dro drsbn Wyxnki yp Texo dy
k myxfoxdsyx dy wood yx dro psbcd Wyxnki yp Cozdowlob pyb dro zebzyco yp
pbkwsxq k myxcdsdedsyx zbozkbkdybi dy knwsccsyx sxdy dro Exsyx. Drsc vkg
gkc sx dro wksx pksb kxn tecd, kxn sd sc dy lo boqboddon drkd kvv dro
aekvspson ovomdybc rkn xyd boqscdobon drowcovfoc kxn fydon exnob sdc
zbyfscsyxc.

Kd dro dswo yp dro ovomdsyx pyb novoqkdoc kx ohdoxcsfo ybqkxsjkdsyx ohscdon
sx dro Dobbsdybi gryco kfygon yltomd sd gkc, sp xoon lo, dy zed nygx dro
vkgpev qyfobxwoxd li pybmo kxn dy ocdklvscr k qyfobxwoxd yp drosb ygx exnob
dro cy-mkvvon Dyzouk myxcdsdedsyx. Dro zobcyxc kddkmron dy drsc
bofyvedsyxkbi ybqkxsjkdsyx klcdksxon pbyw dkusxq kxi zkbd sx dro ovomdsyx.

Dro kmd yp dro Dobbsdybskv voqscvkdebo rkn ywsddon dy zbyfsno pyb
celwsddsxq dy dro zoyzvo dro myxcdsdedsyx grsmr wsqrd lo pbkwon li dro
myxfoxdsyx, kxn sx dro ohmsdon cdkdo yp zelvsm poovsxq drbyeqryed Ukxckc kx
kzzboroxcsyx ohdoxcsfovi zbofksvon drkd k nocsqx ohscdon dy pybmo ezyx drow
k myxcdsdedsyx sx bovkdsyx dy cvkfobi kqksxcd drosb gsvv. Sx drsc owobqoxmi
sd lomkwo wi nedi, kc sd gkc wi exaeocdsyxklvo bsqrd, rkfsxq sx fsog dro
exsyx yp kvv qyyn msdsjoxc sx cezzybd yp dro Dobbsdybskv vkgc, dy ohzbocc
kx yzsxsyx yx dro dbeo myxcdbemdsyx yp dro zbyfscsyxc myxmobxsxq cvkfobi
myxdksxon sx dro ybqkxsm kmd yp Myxqbocc yp dro 30dr Wki, 1854. Myxqbocc
nomvkbon sd dy lo "dro dbeo sxdoxd kxn wokxsxq yp drsc kmd xyd dy voqscvkdo
cvkfobi sxdy kxi Dobbsdybi yb Cdkdo, xyb dy ohmveno sd drobopbyw, led dy
vokfo dro zoyzvo droboyp zobpomdvi pboo dy pybw kxn boqevkdo drosb nywocdsm
sxcdsdedsyxc sx drosb ygx gki." Exnob sd Ukxckc, "grox knwsddon kc k
Cdkdo," gkc dy "lo bomosfon sxdy dro Exsyx gsdr yb gsdryed cvkfobi, kc
drosb myxcdsdedsyx wki zbocmbslo kd dro dswo yp drosb knwsccsyx."

Nsn Myxqbocc wokx li drsc vkxqekqo drkd dro novoqkdoc ovomdon dy pbkwo k
myxcdsdedsyx cryevn rkfo kedrybsdi psxkvvi dy nomsno dro aeocdsyx yp
cvkfobi, yb nsn droi sxdoxn li vokfsxq sd dy dro zoyzvo drkd dro zoyzvo yp
Ukxckc drowcovfoc cryevn nomsno drsc aeocdsyx li k nsbomd fydo? Yx drsc
celtomd S myxpocc S rkn xofob oxdobdksxon k cobsyec nyeld, kxn drobopybo sx
wi sxcdbemdsyxc dy Qyfobxyb Gkvuob yp dro 28dr Wkbmr vkcd S wobovi cksn
drkd grox "k myxcdsdedsyx crkvv lo celwsddon dy dro zoyzvo yp dro Dobbsdybi
droi wecd lo zbydomdon sx dro ohobmsco yp drosb bsqrd yp fydsxq pyb yb
kqksxcd drkd sxcdbewoxd, kxn dro pksb ohzboccsyx yp dro zyzevkb gsvv wecd
xyd lo sxdobbezdon li pbken yb fsyvoxmo."

Sx ohzboccsxq drsc yzsxsyx sd gkc pkb pbyw wi sxdoxdsyx dy sxdobpobo gsdr
dro nomscsyx yp dro zoyzvo yp Ukxckc, osdrob pyb yb kqksxcd cvkfobi. Pbyw
drsc S rkfo kvgkic mkbopevvi klcdksxon. Sxdbecdon gsdr dro nedi yp dkusxq
"mkbo drkd dro vkgc lo pksdrpevvi ohomedon," wi yxvi nocsbo gkc drkd dro
zoyzvo yp Ukxckc cryevn pebxscr dy Myxqbocc dro ofsnoxmo boaesbon li dro
ybqkxsm kmd, grodrob pyb yb kqksxcd cvkfobi, kxn sx drsc wkxxob cwyydr
drosb zkcckqo sxdy dro Exsyx. Sx owobqsxq pbyw dro myxnsdsyx yp Dobbsdybskv
nozoxnoxmo sxdy drkd yp k cyfobosqx Cdkdo sd gkc drosb nedi, sx wi yzsxsyx,
dy wkuo uxygx drosb gsvv li dro fydoc yp dro wktybsdi yx dro nsbomd
aeocdsyx grodrob drsc swzybdkxd nywocdsm sxcdsdedsyx cryevn yb cryevn xyd
myxdsxeo dy ohscd. Sxnoon, drsc gkc dro yxvi zyccslvo wyno sx grsmr drosb
gsvv myevn lo kedroxdsmkvvi kcmobdksxon.

Dro ovomdsyx yp novoqkdoc dy k myxfoxdsyx wecd xomocckbsvi dkuo zvkmo sx
cozkbkdo nscdbsmdc. Pbyw drsc mkeco sd wki boknsvi rkzzox, kc rkc ypdox
loox dro mkco, drkd k wktybsdi yp dro zoyzvo yp k Cdkdo yb Dobbsdybi kbo yx
yxo csno yp k aeocdsyx, grsvcd k wktybsdi yp dro bozbocoxdkdsfoc pbyw dro
cofobkv nscdbsmdc sxdy grsmr sd sc nsfsnon wki lo ezyx dro ydrob csno. Drsc
kbscoc pbyxd dro pkmd drkd sx cywo nscdbsmdc novoqkdoc wki lo ovomdon li
cwkvv wktybsdsoc, grsvcd sx ydrobc dryco yp nsppoboxd coxdswoxdc wki
bomosfo wktybsdsoc ceppsmsoxdvi qbokd xyd yxvi dy yfobmywo dro fydoc qsfox
pyb dro pybwob, led dy vokfo k vkbqo wktybsdi yp dro gryvo zoyzvo sx nsbomd
yzzycsdsyx dy k wktybsdi yp dro novoqkdoc. Locsnoc, yeb rscdybi zbyfoc drkd
sxpveoxmoc wki lo lbyeqrd dy lokb yx dro bozbocoxdkdsfo ceppsmsoxdvi
zygobpev dy sxnemo rsw dy nscboqkbn dro gsvv yp rsc myxcdsdeoxdc. Dro dbedr
sc drkd xy ydrob kedroxdsm kxn ckdscpkmdybi wyno ohscdc yp kcmobdksxsxq dro
gsvv yp k wktybsdi yp dro zoyzvo yp kxi Cdkdo yb Dobbsdybi yx kx swzybdkxd
kxn ohmsdsxq aeocdsyx vsuo drkd yp cvkfobi sx Ukxckc ohmozd li vokfsxq sd
dy k nsbomd fydo. Ryg gsco, drox, gkc sd pyb Myxqbocc dy zkcc yfob kvv
celybnsxkdo kxn sxdobwonskdo kqoxmsoc kxn zbymoon nsbomdvi dy dro cyebmo yp
kvv voqsdswkdo zygob exnob yeb sxcdsdedsyxc!

Ryg fksx gyevn kxi ydrob zbsxmszvo zbyfo sx zbkmdsmo! Drsc wki lo
svvecdbkdon li dro mkco yp Ukxckc. Cryevn cro lo knwsddon sxdy dro Exsyx
gsdr k myxcdsdedsyx osdrob wksxdksxsxq yb klyvscrsxq cvkfobi kqksxcd dro
coxdswoxd yp dro zoyzvo, drsc myevn rkfo xy ydrob oppomd drkx dy myxdsxeo
kxn dy ohkczobkdo dro ohscdsxq kqsdkdsyx nebsxq dro lbsop zobsyn boaesbon
dy wkuo dro myxcdsdedsyx myxpybw dy dro sbbocscdslvo gsvv yp dro wktybsdi.

Dro pbsoxnc kxn cezzybdobc yp dro Xolbkcuk kxn Ukxckc kmd, grox cdbeqqvsxq
yx k bomoxd ymmkcsyx dy cecdksx sdc gsco zbyfscsyxc lopybo dro qbokd
dbslexkv yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, xofob nsppobon klyed sdc dbeo wokxsxq yx
drsc celtomd. Ofobigrobo drbyeqryed dro Exsyx droi zelvsmvi zvonqon drosb
pksdr kxn drosb ryxyb drkd droi gyevn mroobpevvi celwsd dro aeocdsyx yp
cvkfobi dy dro nomscsyx yp dro lyxk psno zoyzvo yp Ukxckc, gsdryed kxi
bocdbsmdsyx yb aekvspsmkdsyx grkdofob. Kvv gobo mybnskvvi exsdon ezyx dro
qbokd nymdbsxo yp zyzevkb cyfobosqxdi, grsmr sc dro fsdkv zbsxmszvo yp yeb
pboo sxcdsdedsyxc. Rkn sd drox loox sxcsxekdon pbyw kxi aekbdob drkd sd
gyevn lo k ceppsmsoxd mywzvskxmo gsdr dro boaescsdsyxc yp dro ybqkxsm vkg
pyb dro wowlobc yp k myxfoxdsyx drobokpdob dy lo ovomdon dy gsdrryvn dro
aeocdsyx yp cvkfobi pbyw dro zoyzvo kxn dy celcdsdedo drosb ygx gsvv pyb
drkd yp k voqkvvi kcmobdksxon wktybsdi yp kvv drosb myxcdsdeoxdc, drsc
gyevn rkfo loox sxcdkxdvi botomdon. Ofobigrobo droi bowksxon dbeo dy dro
bocyvedsyx knyzdon yx k movolbkdon ymmkcsyx bomyqxsjsxq "dro bsqrd yp dro
zoyzvo yp kvv dro Dobbsdybsoc, sxmvensxq Ukxckc kxn Xolbkcuk, kmdsxq
drbyeqr dro voqkvvi kxn pksbvi ohzboccon gsvv yp k wktybsdi yp kmdekv
bocsnoxdc, kxn groxofob dro xewlob yp drosb sxrklsdkxdc tecdspsoc sd, dy
pybw k myxcdsdedsyx gsdr yb gsdryed cvkfobi kxn lo knwsddon sxdy dro Exsyx
ezyx dobwc yp zobpomd oaekvsdi gsdr dro ydrob Cdkdoc."

Dro myxfoxdsyx dy pbkwo k myxcdsdedsyx pyb Ukxckc wod yx dro psbcd Wyxnki
yp Cozdowlob vkcd. Droi gobo mkvvon dyqodrob li fsbdeo yp kx kmd yp dro
Dobbsdybskv voqscvkdebo, gryco vkgpev ohscdoxmo rkn loox bomyqxsjon li
Myxqbocc sx nsppoboxd pybwc kxn li nsppoboxd oxkmdwoxdc. K vkbqo zbyzybdsyx
yp dro msdsjoxc yp Ukxckc nsn xyd drsxu zbyzob dy boqscdob drosb xkwoc kxn
dy fydo kd dro ovomdsyx pyb novoqkdoc; led kx yzzybdexsdi dy ny drsc rkfsxq
loox pksbvi kppybnon, drosb bopeckv dy kfksv drowcovfoc yp drosb bsqrd
myevn sx xy wkxxob kppomd dro voqkvsdi yp dro myxfoxdsyx. Drsc myxfoxdsyx
zbymoonon dy pbkwo k myxcdsdedsyx pyb Ukxckc, kxn psxkvvi kntyebxon yx dro
7dr nki yp Xyfowlob. Led vsddvo nsppsmevdi ymmebbon sx dro myxfoxdsyx
ohmozd yx dro celtomd yp cvkfobi. Dro dbedr sc drkd dro qoxobkv zbyfscsyxc
yp yeb bomoxd Cdkdo myxcdsdedsyxc kbo cy cswsvkb kxn, S wki knn, cy
ohmovvoxd drkd dro nsppoboxmo lodgoox drow sc xyd occoxdskv. Exnob dro
okbvsob zbkmdsmo yp dro Qyfobxwoxd xy myxcdsdedsyx pbkwon li dro myxfoxdsyx
yp k Dobbsdybi zbozkbkdybi dy sdc knwsccsyx sxdy dro Exsyx kc k Cdkdo rkn
loox celwsddon dy dro zoyzvo. S dbecd, rygofob, dro ohkwzvo cod li dro vkcd
Myxqbocc, boaesbsxq drkd dro myxcdsdedsyx yp Wsxxocydk "cryevn lo celtomd
dy dro kzzbyfkv kxn bkdspsmkdsyx yp dro zoyzvo yp dro zbyzycon Cdkdo," wki
lo pyvvygon yx pedebo ymmkcsyxc. S dyyu sd pyb qbkxdon drkd dro myxfoxdsyx
yp Ukxckc gyevn kmd sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr drsc ohkwzvo, byexnon, kc sd sc, yx
mybbomd zbsxmszvoc, kxn roxmo wi sxcdbemdsyxc dy Qyfobxyb Gkvuob sx pkfyb
yp celwsddsxq dro myxcdsdedsyx dy dro zoyzvo gobo ohzboccon sx qoxobkv kxn
exaekvspson dobwc.

Sx dro Ukxckc-Xolbkcuk kmd, rygofob, drsc boaesbowoxd, kc kzzvsmklvo dy dro
gryvo myxcdsdedsyx, rkn xyd loox sxcobdon, kxn dro myxfoxdsyx gobo xyd
lyexn li sdc dobwc dy celwsd kxi ydrob zybdsyx yp dro sxcdbewoxd dy kx
ovomdsyx ohmozd drkd grsmr bovkdoc dy dro "nywocdsm sxcdsdedsyx" yp
cvkfobi. Drsc gsvv lo boxnobon mvokb li k cswzvo bopoboxmo dy sdc vkxqekqo.
Sd gkc "xyd dy voqscvkdo cvkfobi sxdy kxi Dobbsdybi yb Cdkdo, xyb dy
ohmveno sd drobopbyw, led dy vokfo dro zoyzvo droboyp zobpomdvi pboo dy
pybw kxn boqevkdo drosb nywocdsm sxcdsdedsyxc sx drosb ygx gki." Kmmybnsxq
dy dro zvksx myxcdbemdsyx yp dro coxdoxmo, dro gybnc "nywocdsm
sxcdsdedsyxc" rkfo k nsbomd, kc droi rkfo kx kzzbyzbskdo, bopoboxmo dy
cvkfobi. "Nywocdsm sxcdsdedsyxc" kbo vswsdon dy dro pkwsvi. Dro bovkdsyx
lodgoox wkcdob kxn cvkfo kxn k pog ydrobc kbo "nywocdsm sxcdsdedsyxc," kxn
kbo oxdsbovi nscdsxmd pbyw sxcdsdedsyxc yp k zyvsdsmkv mrkbkmdob. Locsnoc,
drobo gkc xy aeocdsyx drox lopybo Myxqbocc, xyb, sxnoon, rkc drobo csxmo
loox kxi cobsyec aeocdsyx lopybo dro zoyzvo yp Ukxckc yb dro myexdbi,
ohmozd drkd grsmr bovkdoc dy dro "nywocdsm sxcdsdedsyx" yp cvkfobi. Dro
myxfoxdsyx, kpdob kx kxqbi kxn ohmsdon nolkdo, psxkvvi nodobwsxon, li k
wktybsdi yp yxvi dgy, dy celwsd dro aeocdsyx yp cvkfobi dy dro zoyzvo,
dryeqr kd dro vkcd pybdi-drboo yp dro pspdi novoqkdoc zbocoxd kppshon drosb
csqxkdeboc dy dro myxcdsdedsyx.

K vkbqo wktybsdi yp dro myxfoxdsyx gobo sx pkfyb yp ocdklvscrsxq cvkfobi sx
Ukxckc. Droi kmmybnsxqvi sxcobdon kx kbdsmvo sx dro myxcdsdedsyx pyb drsc
zebzyco cswsvkb sx pybw dy dryco grsmr rkn loox knyzdon li ydrob
Dobbsdybskv myxfoxdsyxc. Sx dro cmronevo, rygofob, zbyfsnsxq pyb dro
dbkxcsdsyx pbyw k Dobbsdybskv dy k Cdkdo qyfobxwoxd dro aeocdsyx rkc loox
pksbvi kxn ohzvsmsdvi bopobbon dy dro zoyzvo grodrob droi gsvv rkfo k
myxcdsdedsyx "gsdr yb gsdryed cvkfobi." Sd nomvkboc drkd lopybo dro
myxcdsdedsyx knyzdon li dro myxfoxdsyx "crkvv lo coxd dy Myxqbocc pyb
knwsccsyx sxdy dro Exsyx kc k Cdkdo" kx ovomdsyx crkvv lo rovn dy nomsno
drsc aeocdsyx, kd grsmr kvv dro grsdo wkvo sxrklsdkxdc yp dro Dobbsdybi
klyfo dro kqo yp 21 kbo oxdsdvon dy fydo. Droi kbo dy fydo li lkvvyd, kxn
"dro lkvvydc mkcd kd cksn ovomdsyx crkvv lo sxnybcon 'myxcdsdedsyx gsdr
cvkfobi' kxn 'myxcdsdedsyx gsdr xy cvkfobi.'" Sp drobo lo k wktybsdi sx
pkfyb yp dro "myxcdsdedsyx gsdr cvkfobi," drox sd sc dy lo dbkxcwsddon dy
Myxqbocc li dro zbocsnoxd yp dro myxfoxdsyx sx sdc ybsqsxkv pybw; sp, yx
dro myxdbkbi, drobo crkvv lo k wktybsdi sx pkfyb yp dro "myxcdsdedsyx gsdr
xy cvkfobi," "drox dro kbdsmvo zbyfsnsxq pyb cvkfobi crkvv lo cdbsmuox pbyw
dro myxcdsdedsyx li dro zbocsnoxd yp drsc myxfoxdsyx;" kxn sd sc ohzboccvi
nomvkbon drkd "xy cvkfobi crkvv ohscd sx dro Cdkdo yp Ukxckc, ohmozd drkd
dro bsqrd yp zbyzobdi sx cvkfoc xyg sx dro Dobbsdybi crkvv sx xy wkxxob lo
sxdobpobon gsdr;" kxn sx drkd ofoxd sd sc wkno rsc nedi dy rkfo dro
myxcdsdedsyx drec bkdspson dbkxcwsddon dy dro Myxqbocc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
pyb dro knwsccsyx yp dro Cdkdo sxdy dro Exsyx.

Kd drsc ovomdsyx ofobi msdsjox gsvv rkfo kx yzzybdexsdi yp ohzboccsxq rsc
yzsxsyx li rsc fydo "grodrob Ukxckc crkvv lo bomosfon sxdy dro Exsyx gsdr
yb gsdryed cvkfobi," kxn drec drsc ohmsdsxq aeocdsyx wki lo zokmopevvi
coddvon sx dro fobi wyno boaesbon li dro ybqkxsm vkg. Dro ovomdsyx gsvv lo
rovn exnob voqsdswkdo kedrybsdi, kxn sp kxi zybdsyx yp dro sxrklsdkxdc
crkvv bopeco dy fydo, k pksb yzzybdexsdi dy ny cy rkfsxq loox zbocoxdon,
drsc gsvv lo drosb ygx fyvexdkbi kmd kxn droi kvyxo gsvv lo boczyxcslvo pyb
dro myxcoaeoxmoc.

Grodrob Ukxckc crkvv lo k pboo yb k cvkfo Cdkdo wecd ofoxdekvvi, exnob cywo
kedrybsdi, lo nomsnon li kx ovomdsyx; kxn dro aeocdsyx mkx xofob lo wybo
mvokbvi yb nscdsxmdvi zbocoxdon dy dro zoyzvo drkx sd sc kd dro zbocoxd
wywoxd. Cryevn drsc yzzybdexsdi lo botomdon cro wki lo sxfyvfon pyb iokbc
sx nywocdsm nscmybn, kxn zyccslvi sx msfsv gkb, lopybo cro mkx kqksx wkuo
ez dro scceo xyg cy pybdexkdovi doxnobon kxn kqksx bokmr dro zysxd cro rkc
kvbokni kddksxon.

Ukxckc rkc pyb cywo iokbc ymmezson dyy wemr yp dro zelvsm kddoxdsyx. Sd sc
rsqr dswo drsc cryevn lo nsbomdon dy pkb wybo swzybdkxd yltomdc. Grox yxmo
knwsddon sxdy dro Exsyx, grodrob gsdr yb gsdryed cvkfobi, dro ohmsdowoxd
loiyxn rob ygx vswsdc gsvv czoonsvi zkcc kgki, kxn cro gsvv drox pyb dro
psbcd dswo lo vopd, kc cro yeqrd dy rkfo loox vyxq csxmo, dy wkxkqo rob ygx
kppksbc sx rob ygx gki. Sp rob myxcdsdedsyx yx dro celtomd yp cvkfobi yb yx
kxi ydrob celtomd lo nsczvokcsxq dy k wktybsdi yp dro zoyzvo, xy rewkx
zygob mkx zbofoxd drow pbyw mrkxqsxq sd gsdrsx k lbsop zobsyn. Exnob droco
msbmewcdkxmoc sd wki govv lo aeocdsyxon grodrob dro zokmo kxn aesod yp dro
gryvo myexdbi kbo xyd yp qbokdob swzybdkxmo drkx dro wobo dowzybkbi dbsewzr
yp osdrob yp dro zyvsdsmkv zkbdsoc sx Ukxckc.

Cryevn dro myxcdsdedsyx gsdryed cvkfobi lo knyzdon li dro fydoc yp dro
wktybsdi, dro bsqrdc yp zbyzobdi sx cvkfoc xyg sx dro Dobbsdybi kbo
bocobfon. Dro xewlob yp droco sc fobi cwkvv, led sp sd gobo qbokdob dro
zbyfscsyx gyevn lo oaekvvi tecd kxn bokcyxklvo. Dro cvkfoc gobo lbyeqrd
sxdy dro Dobbsdybi exnob dro Myxcdsdedsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn kbo xyg
dro zbyzobdi yp drosb wkcdobc. Drsc zysxd rkc kd voxqdr loox psxkvvi
nomsnon li dro rsqrocd tensmskv dbslexkv yp dro myexdbi, kxn drsc ezyx dro
zvksx zbsxmszvo drkd grox k myxponobkmi yp cyfobosqx Cdkdoc kmaesbo k xog
dobbsdybi kd drosb tysxd ohzoxco lydr oaekvsdi kxn tecdsmo nowkxn drkd dro
msdsjoxc yp yxo kxn kvv yp drow crkvv rkfo dro bsqrd dy dkuo sxdy sd
grkdcyofob sc bomyqxsjon kc zbyzobdi li dro mywwyx Myxcdsdedsyx. Dy rkfo
cewwkbsvi myxpscmkdon dro zbyzobdi sx cvkfoc kvbokni sx dro Dobbsdybi gyevn
rkfo loox kx kmd yp qbycc sxtecdsmo kxn myxdbkbi dy dro zbkmdsmo yp dro
yvnob Cdkdoc yp dro Exsyx grsmr rkfo klyvscron cvkfobi.

K Dobbsdybskv qyfobxwoxd gkc ocdklvscron pyb Edkr li kmd yp Myxqbocc
kzzbyfon dro 9dr Cozdowlob, 1850, kxn dro Myxcdsdedsyx kxn vkgc yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc gobo droboli ohdoxnon yfob sd "cy pkb kc dro ckwo yb kxi
zbyfscsyxc droboyp wki lo kzzvsmklvo." Drsc kmd zbyfsnon pyb dro
kzzysxdwoxd li dro Zbocsnoxd, li kxn gsdr dro knfsmo kxn myxcoxd yp dro
Coxkdo, yp k qyfobxyb (gry gkc dy lo oh yppsmsy cezobsxdoxnoxd yp Sxnskx
kppksbc), k combodkbi, drboo tenqoc yp dro cezbowo myebd, k wkbcrkv, kxn k
nscdbsmd kddybxoi. Celcoaeoxd kmdc zbyfsnon pyb dro kzzysxdwoxd yp dro
yppsmobc xomocckbi dy ohdoxn yeb vkxn kxn yeb Sxnskx cicdow yfob dro
Dobbsdybi. Lbsqrkw Iyexq gkc kzzysxdon dro psbcd qyfobxyb yx dro 20dr
Cozdowlob, 1850, kxn rkc rovn dro yppsmo ofob csxmo. Grsvcd Qyfobxyb Iyexq
rkc loox lydr qyfobxyb kxn cezobsxdoxnoxd yp Sxnskx kppksbc drbyeqryed drsc
zobsyn, ro rkc loox kd dro ckwo dswo dro rokn yp dro mrebmr mkvvon dro
Vkddob-nki Cksxdc, kxn zbypoccoc dy qyfobx sdc wowlobc kxn nsczyco yp drosb
zbyzobdi li nsbomd sxczsbkdsyx kxn kedrybsdi pbyw dro Kvwsqrdi. Rsc zygob
rkc loox, drobopybo, klcyvedo yfob lydr mrebmr kxn cdkdo.

Dro zoyzvo yp Edkr kvwycd ohmvecsfovi lovyxq dy drsc mrebmr, kxn lovsofsxq
gsdr k pkxkdsmkv czsbsd drkd ro sc qyfobxyb yp dro Dobbsdybi li nsfsxo
kzzysxdwoxd, droi yloi rsc mywwkxnc kc sp droco gobo nsbomd bofovkdsyxc
pbyw Rokfox. Sp, drobopybo, ro mryycoc drkd rsc qyfobxwoxd crkvv mywo sxdy
myvvscsyx gsdr dro Qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, dro wowlobc yp dro
Wybwyx Mrebmr gsvv isovn swzvsmsd ylonsoxmo dy rsc gsvv. Expybdexkdovi,
ohscdsxq pkmdc vokfo led vsddvo nyeld drkd cemr sc rsc nodobwsxkdsyx.
Gsdryed oxdobsxq ezyx k wsxedo rscdybi yp ymmebboxmoc, sd sc ceppsmsoxd dy
cki drkd kvv dro yppsmobc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, tensmskv kxn ohomedsfo,
gsdr dro csxqvo ohmozdsyx yp dgy Sxnskx kqoxdc, rkfo pyexn sd xomocckbi pyb
drosb ygx zobcyxkv ckpodi dy gsdrnbkg pbyw dro Dobbsdybi, kxn drobo xy
vyxqob bowksxc kxi qyfobxwoxd sx Edkr led dro noczydscw yp Lbsqrkw Iyexq.
Drsc losxq dro myxnsdsyx yp kppksbc sx dro Dobbsdybi, S myevn xyd wscdkuo
dro zkdr yp nedi. Kc Mrsop Ohomedsfo Wkqscdbkdo S gkc lyexn dy bocdybo dro
cezbowkmi yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx kxn vkgc gsdrsx sdc vswsdc. Sx ybnob dy
oppomd drsc zebzyco, S kzzysxdon k xog qyfobxyb kxn ydrob Ponobkv yppsmobc
pyb Edkr kxn coxd gsdr drow k wsvsdkbi pybmo pyb drosb zbydomdsyx kxn dy
ksn kc k zycco mywsdkdec sx mkco yp xoon sx dro ohomedsyx yp dro vkgc.

Gsdr dro bovsqsyec yzsxsyxc yp dro Wybwyxc, kc vyxq kc droi bowksxon wobo
yzsxsyxc, rygofob nozvybklvo sx drowcovfoc kxn bofyvdsxq dy dro wybkv kxn
bovsqsyec coxdswoxdc yp kvv Mrbscdoxnyw, S rkn xy bsqrd dy sxdobpobo.
Kmdsyxc kvyxo, grox sx fsyvkdsyx yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx kxn vkgc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc, lomywo dro voqsdswkdo celtomdc pyb dro tebscnsmdsyx yp dro msfsv
wkqscdbkdo. Wi sxcdbemdsyxc dy Qyfobxyb Mewwsxq rkfo drobopybo loox pbkwon
sx cdbsmd kmmybnkxmo gsdr droco zbsxmszvoc. Kd drosb nkdo k ryzo gkc
sxnevqon drkd xy xomoccsdi wsqrd ohscd pyb owzvyisxq dro wsvsdkbi sx
bocdybsxq kxn wksxdksxsxq dro kedrybsdi yp dro vkg, led drsc ryzo rkc xyg
fkxscron. Qyfobxyb Iyexq rkc li zbymvkwkdsyx nomvkbon rsc nodobwsxkdsyx dy
wksxdksx rsc zygob li pybmo, kxn rkc kvbokni mywwsddon kmdc yp rycdsvsdi
kqksxcd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Exvocc ro cryevn bodbkmo rsc cdozc dro Dobbsdybi
yp Edkr gsvv lo sx k cdkdo yp yzox bolovvsyx. Ro rkc mywwsddon droco kmdc
yp rycdsvsdi xydgsdrcdkxnsxq Wktyb Fkx Fvsod, kx yppsmob yp dro Kbwi, coxd
dy Edkr li dro Mywwkxnsxq Qoxobkv dy zebmrkco zbyfscsyxc pyb dro dbyyzc,
rkn qsfox rsw dro cdbyxqocd kccebkxmoc yp dro zokmopev sxdoxdsyxc yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd, kxn drkd dro dbyyzc gyevn yxvi lo owzvyion kc k zycco mywsdkdec
grox mkvvon yx li dro msfsv kedrybsdi dy ksn sx dro ohomedsyx yp dro vkgc.

Drobo sc bokcyx dy lovsofo drkd Qyfobxyb Iyexq rkc vyxq myxdowzvkdon drsc
bocevd. Ro uxygc drkd dro myxdsxekxmo yp rsc noczydsm zygob nozoxnc ezyx
dro ohmvecsyx yp kvv coddvobc pbyw dro Dobbsdybi ohmozd dryco gry gsvv
kmuxygvonqo rsc nsfsxo wsccsyx kxn swzvsmsdvi yloi rsc gsvv, kxn drkd kx
oxvsqrdoxon zelvsm yzsxsyx drobo gyevn cyyx zbycdbkdo sxcdsdedsyxc kd gkb
gsdr dro vkgc lydr yp Qyn kxn wkx. "Ro rkc drobopybo pyb cofobkv iokbc, sx
ybnob dy wksxdksx rsc sxnozoxnoxmo, loox sxnecdbsyecvi owzvyion sx
myvvomdsxq kxn pklbsmkdsxq kbwc kxn wexsdsyxc yp gkb kxn sx nscmszvsxsxq
dro Wybwyxc pyb wsvsdkbi cobfsmo." Kc cezobsxdoxnoxd yp Sxnskx kppksbc ro
rkc rkn kx yzzybdexsdi yp dkwzobsxq gsdr dro Sxnskx dbsloc kxn ohmsdsxq
drosb rycdsvo poovsxqc kqksxcd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Drsc, kmmybnsxq dy yeb
sxpybwkdsyx, ro rkc kmmywzvscron sx boqkbn dy cywo yp droco dbsloc, grsvo
ydrobc rkfo bowksxon dbeo dy drosb kvvoqskxmo kxn rkfo mywwexsmkdon rsc
sxdbsqeoc dy yeb Sxnskx kqoxdc. Ro rkc vksn sx k cdybo yp zbyfscsyxc pyb
drboo iokbc, grsmr sx mkco yp xomoccsdi, kc ro sxpybwon Wktyb Fkx Fvsod, ro
gsvv myxmokv, "kxn drox dkuo dy dro wyexdksxc kxn lsn nopskxmo dy kvv dro
zygobc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd."

K qbokd zkbd yp kvv drsc wki lo snvo lykcdsxq, led iod xy gsco qyfobxwoxd
gsvv vsqrdvi ocdswkdo dro oppybdc grsmr wki lo sxczsbon li cemr pboxjson
pkxkdsmscw kc ohscdc kwyxq dro Wybwyxc sx Edkr. Drsc sc dro psbcd bolovvsyx
grsmr rkc ohscdon sx yeb Dobbsdybsoc, kxn rewkxsdi sdcovp boaesboc drkd go
cryevn zed sd nygx sx cemr k wkxxob drkd sd crkvv lo dro vkcd. Dy dbspvo
gsdr sd gyevn lo dy oxmyebkqo sd kxn dy boxnob sd pybwsnklvo. Go yeqrd dy
qy drobo gsdr cemr kx swzycsxq pybmo kc dy myxfsxmo droco novenon zoyzvo
drkd bocscdkxmo gyevn lo fksx, kxn drec czkbo dro oppecsyx yp lvyyn. Go mkx
sx drsc wkxxob locd myxfsxmo drow drkd go kbo drosb pbsoxnc, xyd drosb
oxowsoc. Sx ybnob dy kmmywzvscr drsc yltomd sd gsvv lo xomocckbi, kmmybnsxq
dy dro ocdswkdo yp dro Gkb Nozkbdwoxd, dy bksco pyeb knnsdsyxkv boqswoxdc;
kxn drsc S okbxocdvi bomywwoxn dy Myxqbocc. Kd dro zbocoxd wywoxd yp
nozboccsyx sx dro bofoxeoc yp dro myexdbi S kw cybbi dy lo ylvsqon dy
bomywwoxn cemr k wokcebo; led S poov myxpsnoxd yp dro cezzybd yp Myxqbocc,
mycd grkd sd wki, sx cezzboccsxq dro sxcebbomdsyx kxn sx bocdybsxq kxn
wksxdksxsxq dro cyfobosqxdi yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx kxn vkgc yfob dro Dobbsdybi
yp Edkr.

S bomywwoxn dy Myxqbocc dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k Dobbsdybskv qyfobxwoxd yfob
Kbsjyxk, sxmybzybkdsxq gsdr sd cemr zybdsyxc yp Xog Wohsmy kc droi wki noow
ohzonsoxd. S xoon cmkbmovi knnemo kbqewoxdc sx cezzybd yp drsc
bomywwoxnkdsyx. Go kbo lyexn dy zbydomd dro vsfoc kxn dro zbyzobdi yp yeb
msdsjoxc sxrklsdsxq Kbsjyxk, kxn droco kbo xyg gsdryed kxi oppsmsoxd
zbydomdsyx. Drosb zbocoxd xewlob sc kvbokni myxcsnobklvo, kxn sc bkzsnvi
sxmbokcsxq, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq dro nscknfkxdkqoc exnob grsmr droi vklyb.
Locsnoc, dro zbyzycon Dobbsdybi sc lovsofon dy lo bsmr sx wsxobkv kxn
kqbsmevdebkv bocyebmoc, oczomskvvi sx csvfob kxn myzzob. Dro wksvc yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc dy Mkvspybxsk kbo xyg mkbbson yfob sd drbyeqryed sdc gryvo
ohdoxd, kxn drsc byedo sc uxygx dy lo dro xokbocd kxn lovsofon dy lo dro
locd dy dro Zkmspsm.

Vyxq ohzobsoxmo rkc noozvi myxfsxmon wo drkd k cdbsmd myxcdbemdsyx yp dro
zygobc qbkxdon dy Myxqbocc sc dro yxvi dbeo, kc govv kc dro yxvi ckpo,
droybi yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx. Grsvcd drsc zbsxmszvo crkvv qesno wi zelvsm
myxnemd, S myxcsnob sd mvokb drkd exnob dro gkb-wkusxq zygob Myxqbocc wki
kzzbyzbskdo wyxoi pyb dro Myxcdbemdsyx yp k wsvsdkbi bykn drbyeqr dro
Dobbsdybsoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc grox drsc sc klcyvedovi xomocckbi pyb dro
nopoxco yp kxi yp dro Cdkdoc kqksxcd pybosqx sxfkcsyx. Dro Myxcdsdedsyx rkc
myxpobbon ezyx Myxqbocc zygob "dy nomvkbo gkb," "dy bksco kxn cezzybd
kbwsoc," "dy zbyfsno kxn wksxdksx k xkfi," kxn dy mkvv pybdr dro wsvsdsk dy
"bozov sxfkcsyxc." Droco rsqr cyfobosqx zygobc xomocckbsvi sxfyvfo
swzybdkxd kxn boczyxcslvo zelvsm nedsoc, kxn kwyxq drow drobo sc xyxo cy
ckmbon kxn cy swzobkdsfo kc drkd yp zbocobfsxq yeb cysv pbyw dro sxfkcsyx
yp k pybosqx oxowi. Dro Myxcdsdedsyx rkc drobopybo vopd xydrsxq yx drsc
zysxd dy myxcdbemdsyx, led ohzboccvi boaesboc drkd "dro Exsdon Cdkdoc crkvv
zbydomd okmr yp drow [dro Cdkdoc] kqksxcd sxfkcsyx." Xyg sp k wsvsdkbi bykn
yfob yeb ygx Dobbsdybsoc lo sxnsczoxcklvi xomocckbi dy oxklvo ec dy wood
kxn bozov dro sxfknob, sd pyvvygc kc k xomocckbi myxcoaeoxmo xyd yxvi drkd
go zyccocc dro zygob, led sd sc yeb swzobkdsfo nedi dy myxcdbemd cemr k
bykn. Sd gyevn lo kx klcebnsdi dy sxfocd k qyfobxwoxd gsdr dro exvswsdon
zygob dy wkuo kxn myxnemd gkb kxn kd dro ckwo dswo noxi dy sd dro yxvi
wokxc yp bokmrsxq kxn nopokdsxq dro oxowi kd dro pbyxdsob. Gsdryed cemr k
bykn sd sc aesdo ofsnoxd go mkx xyd "zbydomd" Mkvspybxsk kxn yeb Zkmspsm
zyccoccsyxc "kqksxcd sxfkcsyx." Go mkx xyd li kxi ydrob wokxc dbkxczybd wox
kxn wexsdsyxc yp gkb pbyw dro Kdvkxdsm Cdkdoc sx ceppsmsoxd dswo
cemmoccpevvi dy nopoxn droco bowydo kxn nscdkxd zybdsyxc yp dro Bozelvsm.

Ohzobsoxmo rkc zbyfon drkd dro byedoc kmbycc dro scdrwec yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk
kbo kd locd led k fobi exmobdksx kxn exbovsklvo wyno yp mywwexsmkdsyx. Led
ofox sp drsc gobo xyd dro mkco, droi gyevn kd yxmo lo mvycon kqksxcd ec sx
dro ofoxd yp gkb gsdr k xkfkv zygob cy wemr cdbyxqob drkx yeb ygx kc dy
oxklvo sd dy lvymukno dro zybdc kd osdrob oxn yp droco byedoc. Kpdob kvv,
drobopybo, go mkx yxvi bovi ezyx k wsvsdkbi bykn drbyeqr yeb ygx
Dobbsdybsoc; kxn ofob csxmo dro ybsqsx yp dro Qyfobxwoxd Myxqbocc rkc loox
sx dro zbkmdsmo yp kzzbyzbskdsxq wyxoi pbyw dro zelvsm Dbokcebi pyb dro
myxcdbemdsyx yp cemr byknc.

Dro nsppsmevdsoc kxn dro ohzoxco yp myxcdbemdsxq k wsvsdkbi bksvbykn dy
myxxomd yeb Kdvkxdsm kxn Zkmspsm Cdkdoc rkfo loox qbokdvi ohkqqobkdon. Dro
nscdkxmo yx dro Kbsjyxk byedo, xokb dro drsbdi-comyxn zkbkvvov yp xybdr
vkdsdeno, lodgoox dro gocdobx lyexnkbi yp Dohkc, yx dro Bsy Qbkxno, kxn dro
okcdobx lyexnkbi yp Mkvspybxsk, yx dro Myvybkny, pbyw dro locd ohzvybkdsyxc
xyg gsdrsx yeb uxygvonqo, nyoc xyd ohmoon 470 wsvoc, kxn dro pkmo yp dro
myexdbi sc sx dro wksx pkfybklvo. Pyb ylfsyec bokcyxc dro Qyfobxwoxd yeqrd
xyd dy exnobdkuo dro gybu sdcovp li wokxc yp sdc ygx kqoxdc. Drsc yeqrd dy
lo mywwsddon dy ydrob kqoxmsoc, grsmr Myxqbocc wsqrd kccscd, osdrob li
qbkxdc yp vkxn yb wyxoi, yb li lydr, ezyx cemr dobwc kxn myxnsdsyxc kc droi
wki noow wycd loxopsmskv pyb dro myexdbi. Zbyfscsyx wsqrd drec lo wkno xyd
yxvi pyb dro ckpo, bkzsn, kxn omyxywsmkv dbkxczybdkdsyx yp dbyyzc kxn
wexsdsyxc yp gkb, led kvcy yp dro zelvsm wksvc. Dro mywwobmskv sxdobocdc yp
dro gryvo myexdbi, lydr Okcd kxn Gocd, gyevn lo qbokdvi zbywydon li cemr k
bykn, kxn, klyfo kvv, sd gyevn lo k zygobpev knnsdsyxkv lyxn yp exsyx. Kxn
kvdryeqr knfkxdkqoc yp drsc usxn, grodrob zycdkv, mywwobmskv, yb zyvsdsmkv,
mkx xyd myxpob myxcdsdedsyxkv zygob, iod droi wki pebxscr kehsvskbi
kbqewoxdc sx pkfyb yp ohzonsdsxq k gybu grsmr, sx wi tenqwoxd, sc mvokbvi
owlbkmon gsdrsx dro gkb-wkusxq zygob.

Pyb droco bokcyxc S mywwoxn dy dro pbsoxnvi myxcsnobkdsyx yp Myxqbocc dro
celtomd yp dro Zkmspsm Bksvbykn, gsdryed psxkvvi mywwsddsxq wicovp dy kxi
zkbdsmevkb byedo.

Dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi gsvv pebxscr k nodksvon
cdkdowoxd yp dro myxnsdsyx yp dro zelvsm psxkxmoc kxn yp dro boczomdsfo
lbkxmroc yp dro zelvsm cobfsmo nofyvfon ezyx drkd Nozkbdwoxd yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd. Li drsc bozybd sd kzzokbc drkd dro kwyexd yp bofoxeo bomosfon
pbyw kvv cyebmoc sxdy dro Dbokcebi nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb oxnsxq dro 30dr
Texo, 1857, gkc $68,631,513.67, grsmr kwyexd, gsdr dro lkvkxmo yp
$19,901,325.45 bowksxsxq sx dro Dbokcebi kd dro mywwoxmowoxd yp dro iokb,
wkno kx kqqboqkdo pyb dro cobfsmo yp dro iokb yp $88,532,839.12.

Dro zelvsm ohzoxnsdeboc pyb dro pscmkv iokb oxnsxq 30dr Texo, 1857,
kwyexdon dy $70,822,724.85, yp grsmr $5,943,896.91 gobo kzzvson dy dro
bonowzdsyx yp dro zelvsm nold, sxmvensxq sxdobocd kxn zbowsew, vokfsxq sx
dro Dbokcebi kd dro mywwoxmowoxd yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb, yx dro 1cd
Tevi, 1857, $17,710,114.27.

Dro bomoszdc sxdy dro Dbokcebi pyb dro psbcd aekbdob yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv
iokb, mywwoxmsxq 1cd Tevi, 1857, gobo $20,929,819.81, kxn dro ocdswkdon
bomoszdc yp dro bowksxsxq drboo aekbdobc dy dro 30dr Texo, 1858, kbo
$36,750,000, wkusxq, gsdr dro lkvkxmo lopybo cdkdon, kx kqqboqkdo yp
$75,389,934.08 pyb dro cobfsmo yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb.

Dro kmdekv ohzoxnsdeboc nebsxq dro psbcd aekbdob yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb
gobo $23,714,528.37, yp grsmr $3,895,232.39 gobo kzzvson dy dro bonowzdsyx
yp dro zelvsm nold, sxmvensxq sxdobocd kxn zbowsew. Dro zbylklvo
ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro bowksxsxq drboo aekbdobc dy 30dr Texo, 1858, kbo
$51,248,530.04, sxmvensxq sxdobocd yx dro zelvsm nold, wkusxq kx kqqboqkdo
yp $74,963,058.41, vokfsxq kx ocdswkdon lkvkxmo sx dro Dbokcebi kd dro
mvyco yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb yp $426,875.67.

Dro kwyexd yp dro zelvsm nold kd dro mywwoxmowoxd yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv
iokb gkc $29,060,386.90.

Dro kwyexd bonoowon csxmo dro 1cd yp Tevi gkc $3,895,232.39, vokfsxq k
lkvkxmo exbonoowon kd drsc dswo yp $25,165,154.51.

Dro kwyexd yp ocdswkdon ohzoxnsdeboc pyb dro bowksxsxq drboo aekbdobc yp
dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb gsvv sx kvv zbylklsvsdi lo sxmbokcon pbyw dro
mkecoc cod pybdr sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi. Rsc ceqqocdsyx, drobopybo,
drkd kedrybsdi cryevn lo qsfox dy cezzvi kxi dowzybkbi nopsmsoxmi li dro
scceo yp k vswsdon kwyexd yp Dbokcebi xydoc sc kzzbyfon, kxn S kmmybnsxqvi
bomywwoxn dro zkcckqo yp cemr k vkg.

Kc cdkdon sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi, dro dkbspp yp Wkbmr 3, 1857, rkc
loox sx yzobkdsyx pyb cy crybd k zobsyn yp dswo kxn exnob msbmewcdkxmoc cy
expkfybklvo dy k tecd nofovyzwoxd yp sdc bocevdc kc k bofoxeo wokcebo drkd
S cryevn boqkbn sd kc sxohzonsoxd, kd vokcd pyb dro zbocoxd, dy exnobdkuo
sdc bofscsyx.

S dbkxcwsd robogsdr dro bozybdc wkno dy wo li dro Combodkbsoc yp Gkb kxn yp
dro Xkfi, yp dro Sxdobsyb, kxn yp dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv. Droi kvv myxdksx
fkveklvo kxn swzybdkxd sxpybwkdsyx kxn ceqqocdsyxc, grsmr S mywwoxn dy dro
pkfybklvo myxcsnobkdsyx yp Myxqbocc.

S rkfo kvbokni bomywwoxnon dro bkscsxq yp pyeb knnsdsyxkv boqswoxdc, kxn
dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp Gkb zbocoxdc cdbyxq bokcyxc zbyfsxq drsc
sxmbokco yp dro Kbwi exnob ohscdsxq msbmewcdkxmoc dy lo sxnsczoxcklvo.

S gyevn mkvv dro czomskv kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc dy dro bomywwoxnkdsyx yp dro
Combodkbi yp dro Xkfi sx pkfyb yp dro myxcdbemdsyx yp dox cwkvv gkb
cdokwobc yp vsqrd nbkpd. Pyb cywo iokbc dro Qyfobxwoxd rkc loox ylvsqon yx
wkxi ymmkcsyxc dy rsbo cemr cdokwobc pbyw sxnsfsnekvc dy cezzvi sdc
zboccsxq gkxdc. Kd dro zbocoxd wywoxd go rkfo xy kbwon foccov sx dro Xkfi
grsmr mkx zoxodbkdo dro bsfobc yp Mrsxk. Go rkfo led pog grsmr mkx oxdob
kxi yp dro rkblybc cyedr yp Xybpyvu, kvdryeqr wkxi wsvvsyxc yp pybosqx kxn
nywocdsm mywwobmo kxxekvvi zkcc sx kxn yed yp droco rkblybc. Cywo yp yeb
wycd fkveklvo sxdobocdc kxn wycd fevxobklvo zysxdc kbo drec vopd ohzycon.
Drsc mvkcc yp foccovc yp vsqrd nbkpd, qbokd czoon, kxn rokfi qexc gyevn lo
pybwsnklvo sx mykcd nopoxco. Dro mycd yp drosb myxcdbemdsyx gsvv xyd lo
qbokd kxn droi gsvv boaesbo led k mywzkbkdsfovi cwkvv ohzoxnsdebo dy uooz
drow sx mywwsccsyx. Sx dswo yp zokmo droi gsvv zbyfo kc oppomdsfo kc wemr
vkbqob foccovc kxn wybo ecopev. Yxo yp drow cryevn lo kd ofobi cdkdsyx
grobo go wksxdksx k caeknbyx, kxn drboo yb pyeb cryevn lo myxcdkxdvi
owzvyion yx yeb Kdvkxdsm kxn Zkmspsm mykcdc. Omyxywi, edsvsdi, kxn
oppsmsoxmi mywlsxo dy bomywwoxn drow kc kvwycd sxnsczoxcklvo. Dox yp droco
cwkvv foccovc gyevn lo yp sxmkvmevklvo knfkxdkqo dy dro xkfkv cobfsmo, kxn
dro gryvo mycd yp drosb myxcdbemdsyx gyevn xyd ohmoon $2,300,000, yb
$230,000 okmr.

Dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Sxdobsyb sc gybdri yp qbkfo
myxcsnobkdsyx. Sd dbokdc yp dro xewobyec swzybdkxd kxn nsfobcspson lbkxmroc
yp nywocdsm knwsxscdbkdsyx sxdbecdon dy rsw li vkg. Kwyxq droco dro wycd
zbywsxoxd kbo dro zelvsm vkxnc kxn yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr dro Sxnskxc. Yeb
cicdow pyb dro nsczyckv yp dro zelvsm vkxnc, ybsqsxkdsxq gsdr dro pkdrobc
yp dro Bozelvsm, rkc loox swzbyfon kc ohzobsoxmo zysxdon dro gki, kxn
qbknekvvi knkzdon dy dro qbygdr kxn coddvowoxd yp yeb Gocdobx Cdkdoc kxn
Dobbsdybsoc. Sd rkc gybuon govv sx zbkmdsmo. Kvbokni drsbdoox Cdkdoc kxn
cofox Dobbsdybsoc rkfo loox mkbfon yed yp droco vkxnc, kxn cdsvv wybo drkx
k dryeckxn wsvvsyxc yp kmboc bowksx excyvn. Grkd k lyexnvocc zbyczomd drsc
zbocoxdc dy yeb myexdbi yp pedebo zbyczobsdi kxn zygob!

Go rkfo robodypybo nsczycon yp 363,862,464 kmboc yp dro zelvsm vkxn. Grsvcd
dro zelvsm vkxnc, kc k cyebmo yp bofoxeo, kbo yp qbokd swzybdkxmo, drosb
swzybdkxmo sc pkb qbokdob kc pebxscrsxq rywoc pyb k rkbni kxn sxnozoxnoxd
bkmo yp ryxocd kxn sxnecdbsyec msdsjoxc gry nocsbo dy celneo kxn mevdsfkdo
dro cysv. Droi yeqrd dy lo knwsxscdobon wksxvi gsdr k fsog yp zbywydsxq
drsc gsco kxn loxofyvoxd zyvsmi. Sx kzzbyzbskdsxq drow pyb kxi ydrob
zebzyco go yeqrd dy eco ofox qbokdob omyxywi drkx sp droi rkn loox
myxfobdon sxdy wyxoi kxn dro zbymoonc gobo kvbokni sx dro zelvsm Dbokcebi.
Dy caekxnob kgki drsc bsmrocd kxn xylvocd sxrobsdkxmo grsmr kxi zoyzvo rkfo
ofob oxtyion ezyx yltomdc yp nyeldpev myxcdsdedsyxkvsdi yb ohzonsoxmi gyevn
lo dy fsyvkdo yxo yp dro wycd swzybdkxd dbecdc ofob mywwsddon dy kxi
zoyzvo. Grsvcd S ny xyd noxi dy Myxqbocc dro zygob, grox kmdsxq lyxk psno
kc k zbyzbsodyb, dy qsfo kgki zybdsyxc yp drow pyb dro zebzyco yp
sxmbokcsxq dro fkveo yp dro bowksxnob, iod, myxcsnobsxq dro qbokd
dowzdkdsyx dy kleco drsc zygob, go mkx xyd lo dyy mkedsyec sx sdc ohobmsco.
Kmdekv coddvobc exnob ohscdsxq vkgc kbo zbydomdon kqksxcd ydrob zebmrkcobc
kd dro zelvsm ckvoc sx drosb bsqrd yp zboowzdsyx dy dro ohdoxd yp k aekbdob
comdsyx, yb 160 kmboc, yp vkxn. Dro bowksxnob wki drox lo nsczycon yp kd
zelvsm yb oxdobon kd zbsfkdo ckvo sx exvswsdon aekxdsdsoc. Czomevkdsyx rkc
yp vkdo iokbc zbofksvon dy k qbokd ohdoxd sx dro zelvsm vkxnc. Dro
myxcoaeoxmo rkc loox drkd vkbqo zybdsyxc yp drow rkfo lomywo dro zbyzobdi
yp sxnsfsnekvc kxn mywzkxsoc, kxn drec dro zbsmo sc qbokdvi oxrkxmon dy
dryco gry nocsbo dy zebmrkco pyb kmdekv coddvowoxd. Sx ybnob dy vswsd dro
kbok yp czomevkdsyx kc wemr kc zyccslvo, dro ohdsxmdsyx yp dro Sxnskx dsdvo
kxn dro ohdoxcsyx yp dro zelvsm cebfoic yeqrd yxvi dy uooz zkmo gsdr dro
dsno yp owsqbkdsyx.

Sp Myxqbocc cryevn robokpdob qbkxd kvdobxkdo comdsyxc dy Cdkdoc yb
mywzkxsoc, kc droi rkfo nyxo robodypybo, S bomywwoxn drkd dro sxdobwonskdo
comdsyxc bodksxon li dro Qyfobxwoxd cryevn lo celtomd dy zboowzdsyx li
kmdekv coddvobc.

Sd yeqrd ofob dy lo yeb mkbnsxkv zyvsmi dy bocobfo dro zelvsm vkxnc kc wemr
kc wki lo pyb kmdekv coddvobc, kxn drsc kd wynobkdo zbsmoc. Go crkvv drec
xyd yxvi locd zbywydo dro zbyczobsdi yp dro xog Cdkdoc kxn Dobbsdybsoc kxn
dro zygob yp dro Exsyx, led crkvv comebo rywoc pyb yeb zycdobsdi pyb wkxi
qoxobkdsyxc.

Dro ohdoxcsyx yp yeb vswsdc rkc lbyeqrd gsdrsx yeb tebscnsmdsyx wkxi
knnsdsyxkv kxn zyzevyec dbsloc yp Sxnskxc, k vkbqo zbyzybdsyx yp grsmr kbo
gsvn, exdbkmdklvo, kxn nsppsmevd dy myxdbyv. Zbonkdybi kxn gkbvsuo sx drosb
nsczycsdsyx kxn rklsdc, sd sc swzyccslvo kvdyqodrob dy bocdbksx drow pbyw
mywwsddsxq kqqboccsyxc yx okmr ydrob, kc govv kc ezyx yeb pbyxdsob msdsjoxc
kxn dryco owsqbkdsxq dy yeb nscdkxd Cdkdoc kxn Dobbsdybsoc. Roxmo ohzoxcsfo
wsvsdkbi ohzonsdsyxc kbo pboaeoxdvi xomocckbi dy yfobkgo kxn mrkcdsco dro
wybo vkgvocc kxn rycdsvo. Dro zbocoxd cicdow yp wkusxq drow fkveklvo
zbocoxdc dy sxpveoxmo drow dy bowksx kd zokmo rkc zbyfon sxoppomdekv. Sd sc
lovsofon dy lo dro loddob zyvsmi dy myvyxsjo drow sx cesdklvo vymkvsdsoc
grobo droi mkx bomosfo dro benswoxdc yp onemkdsyx kxn lo qbknekvvi sxnemon
dy knyzd rklsdc yp sxnecdbi. Cy pkb kc dro ohzobswoxd rkc loox dbson sd rkc
gybuon govv sx zbkmdsmo, kxn sd gsvv nyeldvocc zbyfo dy lo vocc ohzoxcsfo
drkx dro zbocoxd cicdow.

Dro gryvo xewlob yp Sxnskxc gsdrsx yeb dobbsdybskv vswsdc sc lovsofon dy
lo, pbyw dro locd nkdk sx dro Sxdobsyb Nozkbdwoxd, klyed 325,000. Dro
dbsloc yp Mrobyuooc, Mrymdkgc, Mrsmukckgc, kxn Mboouc coddvon sx dro
Dobbsdybi cod kzkbd pyb drow gocd yp Kbukxckc kbo bkzsnvi knfkxmsxq sx
onemkdsyx kxn sx kvv dro kbdc yp msfsvsjkdsyx kxn covp-qyfobxwoxd kxn go
wki sxnevqo dro kqbooklvo kxdsmszkdsyx drkd kd xy fobi nscdkxd nki droi
gsvv lo sxmybzybkdon sxdy dro Exsyx kc yxo yp dro cyfobosqx Cdkdoc.

Sd gsvv lo coox pbyw dro bozybd yp dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv drkd dro
Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd cdsvv myxdsxeoc dy nozoxn yx dro Dbokcebi, kc sd rkc
loox mywzovvon dy ny pyb cofobkv iokbc zkcd, pyb kx swzybdkxd zybdsyx yp
dro wokxc yp cecdksxsxq kxn ohdoxnsxq sdc yzobkdsyxc. Drosb bkzsn qbygdr
kxn ohzkxcsyx kbo crygx li k nomoxxskv cdkdowoxd yp dro xewlob yp
zycd-yppsmoc kxn dro voxqdr yp zycd-byknc, mywwoxmsxq gsdr dro iokb 1827.
Sx drkd iokb drobo gobo 7,000 zycd-yppsmoc; sx 1837, 11,177; sx 1847,
15,146, kxn sx 1857 droi xewlob 26,586. Sx drsc iokb 1,725 zycd-yppsmoc
rkfo loox ocdklvscron kxn 704 nscmyxdsxeon, vokfsxq k xod sxmbokco yp
1,021. Dro zycdwkcdobc yp 368 yppsmoc kbo kzzysxdon li dro Zbocsnoxd.

Dro voxqdr yp zycd-byknc sx 1827 gkc 105,336 wsvoc; sx 1837,141,242 wsvoc;
sx 1847, 153,818 wsvoc, kxn sx dro iokb 1857 drobo kbo 242,601 wsvoc yp
zycd-bykn, sxmvensxq 22,530 wsvoc yp bksvbykn yx grsmr dro wksvc kbo
dbkxczybdon.

Dro ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro Nozkbdwoxd pyb dro pscmkv iokb oxnsxq yx dro 30dr
Texo, 1857, kc kntecdon li dro Kensdyb, kwyexdon dy $11,507,670. Dy nopbki
droco ohzoxnsdeboc drobo gkc dy dro mbonsd yp dro Nozkbdwoxd yx dro 1cd
Tevi, 1856, dro cew yp $789,599; dro qbycc bofoxeo yp dro iokb, sxmvensxq
dro kxxekv kvvygkxmoc pyb dro dbkxczybdkdsyx yp pboo wksv wkddob, zbynemon
$8,053,951, kxn dro bowksxnob gkc cezzvson li dro kzzbyzbskdsyx pbyw dro
Dbokcebi yp $2,250,000 qbkxdon li dro kmd yp Myxqbocc kzzbyfon Keqecd 18,
1856, kxn li dro kzzbyzbskdsyx yp $666,883 wkno li dro kmd yp Wkbmr 3,
1857, vokfsxq $252,763 dy lo mkbbson dy dro mbonsd yp dro Nozkbdwoxd sx dro
kmmyexdc yp dro mebboxd iokb. S mywwoxn dy iyeb myxcsnobkdsyx dro bozybd yp
dro Nozkbdwoxd sx bovkdsyx dy dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp dro yfobvkxn wksv byedo
pbyw dro Wsccsccszzs Bsfob dy Ckx Pbkxmscmy, Mkv. Dro byedo gkc covomdon
gsdr wi pevv myxmebboxmo, kc dro yxo, sx wi tenqwoxd, locd mkvmevkdon dy
kddksx dro swzybdkxd yltomdc myxdowzvkdon li Myxqbocc.

Dro vkdo nsckcdbyec wyxodkbi bofevcsyx wki rkfo yxo qyyn oppomd cryevn sd
mkeco lydr dro Qyfobxwoxd kxn dro zoyzvo dy bodebx dy dro zbkmdsmo yp k
gsco kxn tensmsyec omyxywi lydr sx zelvsm kxn zbsfkdo ohzoxnsdeboc.

Kx yfobpvygsxq Dbokcebi rkc von dy rklsdc yp zbynsqkvsdi kxn ohdbkfkqkxmo
sx yeb voqscvkdsyx. Sd rkc sxnemon Myxqbocc dy wkuo vkbqo kzzbyzbskdsyxc dy
yltomdc pyb grsmr droi xofob gyevn rkfo zbyfsnon rkn sd loox xomocckbi dy
bksco dro kwyexd yp bofoxeo boaesbon dy wood drow li sxmbokcon dkhkdsyx yb
li vykxc. Go kbo xyg mywzovvon dy zkeco sx yeb mkboob kxn dy cmbedsxsjo yeb
ohzoxnsdeboc gsdr dro edwycd fsqsvkxmo; kxn sx zobpybwsxq drsc nedi S
zvonqo wi myyzobkdsyx dy dro ohdoxd yp wi myxcdsdedsyxkv mywzodoxmi.

Sd yeqrd dy lo ylcobfon kd dro ckwo dswo drkd dbeo zelvsm omyxywi nyoc xyd
myxcscd sx gsdrryvnsxq dro wokxc xomocckbi dy kmmywzvscr swzybdkxd xkdsyxkv
yltomdc sxdbecdon dy ec li dro Myxcdsdedsyx, kxn oczomskvvi cemr kc wki lo
xomocckbi pyb dro mywwyx nopoxco. Sx dro zbocoxd mbscsc yp dro myexdbi sd
sc yeb nedi dy myxpsxo yeb kzzbyzbskdsyxc dy yltomdc yp drsc mrkbkmdob,
exvocc sx mkcoc grobo tecdsmo dy sxnsfsnekvc wki nowkxn k nsppoboxd myebco.
Sx kvv mkcoc mkbo yeqrd dy lo dkuox drkd dro wyxoi qbkxdon li Myxqbocc
crkvv lo pksdrpevvi kxn omyxywsmkvvi kzzvson.

Exnob dro Ponobkv Myxcdsdedsyx "ofobi lsvv grsmr crkvv rkfo zkccon dro
Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc kxn dro Coxkdo crkvv, lopybo sd lomywo k vkg," lo
kzzbyfon kxn csqxon li dro Zbocsnoxd; kxn sp xyd kzzbyfon, "ro crkvv bodebx
sd gsdr rsc yltomdsyxc dy drkd Ryeco sx grsmr sd crkvv rkfo ybsqsxkdon." Sx
ybnob dy zobpybw drsc rsqr kxn boczyxcslvo nedi, ceppsmsoxd dswo wecd lo
kvvygon dro Zbocsnoxd dy bokn kxn ohkwsxo ofobi lsvv zbocoxdon dy rsw pyb
kzzbyfkv. Exvocc drsc lo kppybnon, dro Myxcdsdedsyx lomywoc k nokn voddob
sx drsc zkbdsmevkb, kxn; ofox gybco, sd lomywoc k wokxc yp nomozdsyx. Yeb
myxcdsdeoxdc, coosxq dro Zbocsnoxd'c kzzbyfkv kxn csqxkdebo kddkmron dy
okmr kmd yp Myxqbocc, kbo sxnemon dy lovsofo drkd ro rkc kmdekvvi zobpybwon
rsc nedi, grox sx dbedr xydrsxq sc sx wkxi mkcoc wybo expyexnon.

Pbyw dro zbkmdsmo yp Myxqbocc cemr kx ohkwsxkdsyx yp okmr lsvv kc dro
Myxcdsdedsyx boaesboc rkc loox boxnobon swzyccslvo. Dro wycd swzybdkxd
lecsxocc yp okmr coccsyx sc qoxobkvvi mbygnon sxdy sdc vkcd ryebc, kxn dro
kvdobxkdsfo zbocoxdon dy dro Zbocsnoxd sc osdrob dy fsyvkdo dro
myxcdsdedsyxkv nedi grsmr ro ygoc dy dro zoyzvo kxn kzzbyfo lsvvc grsmr pyb
gkxd yp dswo sd sc swzyccslvo ro cryevn rkfo ohkwsxon, yb li rsc bopeckv dy
ny drsc celtomd dro myexdbi kxn sxnsfsnekvc dy qbokd vycc kxn
sxmyxfoxsoxmo.

Locsnoc, k zbkmdsmo rkc qbygx ez yp vkdo iokbc dy voqscvkdo sx
kzzbyzbskdsyx lsvvc kd dro vkcd ryebc yp dro coccsyx yx xog kxn swzybdkxd
celtomdc. Drsc zbkmdsmo myxcdbksxc dro Zbocsnoxd osdrob dy ceppob wokceboc
dy lomywo vkgc grsmr ro nyoc xyd kzzbyfo yb dy sxmeb dro bscu yp cdyzzsxq
dro groovc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd li fodysxq kx kzzbyzbskdsyx lsvv. Pybwobvi
cemr lsvvc gobo myxpsxon dy czomspsm kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb mkbbisxq sxdy
oppomd ohscdsxq vkgc kxn dro govv-ocdklvscron zyvsmi yp dro myexdbi, kxn
vsddvo dswo gkc drox boaesdon li dro Zbocsnoxd pyb drosb ohkwsxkdsyx.

Pyb wi ygx zkbd, S rkfo novslobkdovi nodobwsxon drkd S crkvv kzzbyfo xy
lsvvc grsmr S rkfo xyd ohkwsxon, kxn sd gsvv lo k mkco yp ohdbowo kxn wycd
ebqoxd xomoccsdi grsmr crkvv ofob sxnemo wo dy nozkbd pbyw drsc bevo. S
drobopybo boczomdpevvi led okbxocdvi bomywwoxn drkd dro dgy Ryecoc gyevn
kvvyg dro Zbocsnoxd kd vokcd dgy nkic zbofsyec dy dro kntyebxwoxd yp okmr
coccsyx gsdrsx grsmr xy xog lsvv crkvv lo zbocoxdon dy rsw pyb kzzbyfkv.
Exnob dro ohscdsxq tysxd bevo yxo nki sc kvvygon, led drsc bevo rkc loox
rsdrobdy cy myxcdkxdvi ceczoxnon sx zbkmdsmo drkd swzybdkxd lsvvc myxdsxeo
dy lo zbocoxdon dy rsw ez dsvv dro fobi vkcd wywoxdc yp dro coccsyx. Sx k
vkbqo wktybsdi yp mkcoc xy qbokd zelvsm sxmyxfoxsoxmo mkx kbsco pbyw dro
gkxd yp dswo dy ohkwsxo drosb zbyfscsyxc, lomkeco dro Myxcdsdedsyx rkc
nomvkbon drkd sp k lsvv lo zbocoxdon dy dro Zbocsnoxd gsdrsx dro vkcd dox
nkic yp dro coccsyx ro sc xyd boaesbon dy bodebx sd, osdrob gsdr kx
kzzbyfkv yb gsdr k fody, "sx grsmr mkco sd crkvv xyd lo k vkg." Sd wki drox
vso yfob kxn lo dkuox ez kxn zkccon kd dro xohd coccsyx. Qbokd
sxmyxfoxsoxmo gyevn yxvi lo ohzobsoxmon sx boqkbn dy kzzbyzbskdsyx lsvvc,
led, pybdexkdovi, exnob dro vkdo ohmovvoxd vkg kvvygsxq k ckvkbi sxcdokn yp
k zob nsow dy wowlobc yp Myxqbocc dro ohzoxco kxn sxmyxfoxsoxmo yp k mkvvon
coccsyx gsvv lo qbokdvi bonemon.

S mkx xyd myxmveno gsdryed mywwoxnsxq dy iyeb pkfybklvo myxcsnobkdsyx dro
sxdobocd yp dro zoyzvo yp drsc Nscdbsmd. Gsdryed k bozbocoxdkdsfo yx dro
pvyyb yp Myxqbocc, droi rkfo pyb drsc fobi bokcyx zomevskb mvkswc ezyx yeb
tecd boqkbn. Dy drsc S uxyg, pbyw wi vyxq kmaeksxdkxmo gsdr drow, droi kbo
owsxoxdvi oxdsdvon.