Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Guebhtubhg gur lrne fvapr bhe ynfg zrrgvat gur pbhagel unf orra rzvaragyl
cebfcrebhf va nyy vgf zngrevny vagrerfgf. Gur trareny urnygu unf orra
rkpryyrag, bhe uneirfgf unir orra nohaqnag, naq cyragl fzvyrf guebhtubhg
gur ynhq. Bhe pbzzrepr naq znahsnpgherf unir orra cebfrphgrq jvgu raretl
naq vaqhfgel, naq unir lvryqrq snve naq nzcyr ergheaf. Va fubeg, ab angvba
va gur gvqr bs gvzr unf rire cerfragrq n fcrpgnpyr bs terngre zngrevny
cebfcrevgl guna jr unir qbar hagvy jvguva n irel erprag crevbq.

Jul vf vg, gura, gung qvfpbagrag abj fb rkgrafviryl cerinvyf, naq gur Havba
bs gur Fgngrf, juvpu vf gur fbhepr bs nyy gurfr oyrffvatf, vf guerngrarq
jvgu qrfgehpgvba?

Gur ybat-pbagvahrq naq vagrzcrengr vagresrerapr bs gur Abegurea crbcyr jvgu
gur dhrfgvba bs fynirel va gur Fbhgurea Fgngrf unf ng yratgu cebqhprq vgf
angheny rssrpgf. Gur qvssrerag frpgvbaf bs gur Havba ner abj neenlrq
ntnvafg rnpu bgure, naq gur gvzr unf neevirq, fb zhpu qernqrq ol gur Sngure
bs uvf Pbhagel, jura ubfgvyr trbtencuvpny cnegvrf unir orra sbezrq.

V unir ybat sberfrra naq bsgra sberjnearq zl pbhagelzra bs gur abj
vzcraqvat qnatre. Guvf qbrf abg cebprrq fbyryl sebz gur pynvz ba gur cneg
bs Pbaterff be gur Greevgbevny yrtvfyngherf gb rkpyhqr fynirel sebz gur
Greevgbevrf, abe sebz gur rssbegf bs qvssrerag Fgngrf gb qrsrng gur
rkrphgvba bs gur shtvgvir-fynir ynj. Nyy be nal bs gurfr rivyf zvtug unir
orra raqherq ol gur Fbhgu jvgubhg qnatre gb gur Havba (nf bguref unir orra)
va gur ubcr gung gvzr naq ersyrpgvba zvtug nccyl gur erzrql. Gur vzzrqvngr
crevy nevfrf abg fb zhpu sebz gurfr pnhfrf nf sebz gur snpg gung gur
vaprffnag naq ivbyrag ntvgngvba bs gur fynirel dhrfgvba guebhtubhg gur
Abegu sbe gur ynfg dhnegre bs n praghel unf ng yratgu cebqhprq vgf znyvta
vasyhrapr ba gur fynirf naq vafcverq gurz jvgu inthr abgvbaf bs serrqbz.
Urapr n frafr bs frphevgl ab ybatre rkvfgf nebhaq gur snzvyl nygne. Guvf
srryvat bs crnpr ng ubzr unf tvira cynpr gb nccerurafvbaf bs freivyr
vafheerpgvbaf. Znal n zngeba guebhtubhg gur Fbhgu ergverf ng avtug va qernq
bs jung znl orsnyy urefrys naq puvyqera orsber gur zbeavat. Fubhyq guvf
nccerurafvba bs qbzrfgvp qnatre, jurgure erny be vzntvanel, rkgraq naq
vagrafvsl vgfrys hagvy vg funyy creinqr gur znffrf bs gur Fbhgurea crbcyr,
gura qvfhavba jvyy orpbzr varivgnoyr. Frys-cerfreingvba vf gur svefg ynj bs
angher, naq unf orra vzcynagrq va gur urneg bs zna ol uvf Perngbe sbe gur
jvfrfg checbfr; naq ab cbyvgvpny havba, ubjrire senhtug jvgu oyrffvatf naq
orarsvgf va nyy bgure erfcrpgf, pna ybat pbagvahr vs gur arprffnel
pbafrdhrapr or gb eraqre gur ubzrf naq gur sverfvqrf bs arneyl unys gur
cnegvrf gb vg unovghnyyl naq ubcryrffyl vafrpher. Fbbare be yngre gur obaqf
bs fhpu n havba zhfg or frirerq. Vg vf zl pbaivpgvba gung guvf sngny crevbq
unf abg lrg neevirq, naq zl cenlre gb Tbq vf gung Ur jbhyq cerfreir gur
Pbafgvghgvba naq gur Havba guebhtubhg nyy trarengvbaf.

Ohg yrg hf gnxr jneavat va gvzr naq erzbir gur pnhfr bs qnatre. Vg pna abg
or qravrq gung sbe svir naq gjragl lrnef gur ntvgngvba ng gur Abegu ntnvafg
fynirel unf orra vaprffnag. Va 1835 cvpgbevny unaqovyyf naq vasynzzngbel
nccrnyf jrer pvephyngrq rkgrafviryl guebhtubhg gur Fbhgu bs n punenpgre gb
rkpvgr gur cnffvbaf bs gur fynirf, naq, va gur ynathntr bs Trareny Wnpxfba,
"gb fgvzhyngr gurz gb vafheerpgvba naq cebqhpr nyy gur ubeebef bs n freivyr
jne." Guvf ntvgngvba unf rire fvapr orra pbagvahrq ol gur choyvp cerff, ol
gur cebprrqvatf bs Fgngr naq pbhagl pbairagvbaf naq ol nobyvgvba frezbaf
naq yrpgherf. Gur gvzr bs Pbaterff unf orra bpphcvrq va ivbyrag fcrrpurf ba
guvf arire-raqvat fhowrpg, naq nccrnyf, va cnzcuyrg naq bgure sbezf,
vaqbefrq ol qvfgvathvfurq anzrf, unir orra frag sbegu sebz guvf prageny
cbvag naq fcernq oebnqpnfg bire gur Havba.

Ubj rnfl jbhyq vg or sbe gur Nzrevpna crbcyr gb frggyr gur fynirel dhrfgvba
sberire naq gb erfgber crnpr naq unezbal gb guvf qvfgenpgrq pbhagel! Gurl,
naq gurl nybar, pna qb vg. Nyy gung vf arprffnel gb nppbzcyvfu gur bowrpg,
naq nyy sbe juvpu gur fynir Fgngrf unir rire pbagraqrq, vf gb or yrg nybar
naq crezvggrq gb znantr gurve qbzrfgvp vafgvghgvbaf va gurve bja jnl. Nf
fbirervta Fgngrf, gurl, naq gurl nybar, ner erfcbafvoyr orsber Tbq naq gur
jbeyq sbe gur fynirel rkvfgvat nzbat gurz. Sbe guvf gur crbcyr bs gur Abegu
ner abg zber erfcbafvoyr naq unir ab zber svtug gb vagresrer guna jvgu
fvzvyne vafgvghgvbaf va Ehffvn be va Oenmvy.

Hcba gurve tbbq frafr naq cngevbgvp sbeornenapr V pbasrff V fgvyy terngyl
eryl. Jvgubhg gurve nvq vg vf orlbaq gur cbjre bs nal Cerfvqrag, ab znggre
jung znl or uvf bja cbyvgvpny cebpyvivgvrf, gb erfgber crnpr naq unezbal
nzbat gur Fgngrf. Jvfryl yvzvgrq naq erfgenvarq nf vf uvf cbjre haqre bhe
Pbafgvghgvba naq ynjf, ur nybar pna nppbzcyvfu ohg yvggyr sbe tbbq be sbe
rivy ba fhpu n zbzragbhf dhrfgvba.

Naq guvf oevatf zr gb bofreir gung gur ryrpgvba bs nal bar bs bhe
sryybj-pvgvmraf gb gur bssvpr bs Cerfvqrag qbrf abg bs vgfrys nssbeq whfg
pnhfr sbe qvffbyivat gur Havba. Guvf vf zber rfcrpvnyyl gehr vs uvf
ryrpgvba unf orra rssrpgrq ol n zrer cyhenyvgl, naq abg n znwbevgl bs gur
crbcyr, naq unf erfhygrq sebz genafvrag naq grzcbenel pnhfrf, juvpu znl
cebonoyl arire ntnva bpphe. Va beqre gb whfgvsl n erfbeg gb eribyhgvbanel
erfvfgnapr, gur Srqreny Tbireazrag zhfg or thvygl bs "n qryvorengr,
cnycnoyr, naq qnatrebhf rkrepvfr" bs cbjref abg tenagrq ol gur
Pbafgvghgvba.

Gur yngr Cerfvqragvny ryrpgvba, ubjrire, unf orra uryq va fgevpg pbasbezvgl
jvgu vgf rkcerff cebivfvbaf. Ubj, gura, pna gur erfhyg whfgvsl n eribyhgvba
gb qrfgebl guvf irel Pbafgvghgvba? Ernfba, whfgvpr, n ertneq sbe gur
Pbafgvghgvba, nyy erdhver gung jr funyy jnvg sbe fbzr bireg naq qnatrebhf
npg ba gur cneg bs gur Cerfvqrag ryrpg orsber erfbegvat gb fhpu n erzrql.
Vg vf fnvq, ubjrire, gung gur nagrprqragf bs gur Cerfvqrag-ryrpg unir orra
fhssvpvrag gb whfgvsl gur srnef bs gur Fbhgu gung ur jvyy nggrzcg gb vainqr
gurve pbafgvghgvbany evtugf. Ohg ner fhpu nccerurafvbaf bs pbagvatrag
qnatre va gur shgher fhssvpvrag gb whfgvsl gur vzzrqvngr qrfgehpgvba bs gur
aboyrfg flfgrz bs tbireazrag rire qrivfrq ol zbegnyf? Sebz gur irel angher
bs uvf bssvpr naq vgf uvtu erfcbafvovyvgvrf ur zhfg arprffnevyl or
pbafreingvir. Gur fgrea qhgl bs nqzvavfgrevat gur infg naq pbzcyvpngrq
pbapreaf bs guvf Tbireazrag nssbeqf va vgfrys n thnenagl gung ur jvyy abg
nggrzcg nal ivbyngvba bs n pyrne pbafgvghgvbany evtug.

Nsgre nyy, ur vf ab zber guna gur puvrs rkrphgvir bssvpre bs gur
Tbireazrag. Uvf cebivapr vf abg gb znxr ohg gb rkrphgr gur ynjf. Naq vg vf
n erznexnoyr snpg va bhe uvfgbel gung, abgjvgufgnaqvat gur ercrngrq rssbegf
bs gur nagvfynirel cnegl, ab fvatyr npg unf rire cnffrq Pbaterff, hayrff jr
znl cbffvoyl rkprcg gur Zvffbhev pbzcebzvfr, vzcnvevat va gur fyvtugrfg
qrterr gur evtugf bs gur Fbhgu gb gurve cebcregl va fynirf; naq vg znl nyfb
or bofreirq, whqtvat sebz cerfrag vaqvpngvbaf, gung ab cebonovyvgl rkvfgf
bs gur cnffntr bs fhpu na npg ol n znwbevgl bs obgu Ubhfrf, rvgure va gur
cerfrag be gur arkg Pbaterff. Fheryl haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf jr bhtug gb
or erfgenvarq sebz cerfrag npgvba ol gur cerprcg bs Uvz jub fcnxr nf zna
arire fcbxr, gung "fhssvpvrag hagb gur qnl vf gur rivy gurerbs." Gur qnl bs
rivy znl arire pbzr hayrff jr funyy enfuyl oevat vg hcba bhefryirf.

Vg vf nyyrtrq nf bar pnhfr sbe vzzrqvngr frprffvba gung gur Fbhgurea Fgngrf
ner qravrq rdhny evtugf jvgu gur bgure Fgngrf va gur pbzzba Greevgbevrf.
Ohg ol jung nhgubevgl ner gurfr qravrq? Abg ol Pbaterff, juvpu unf arire
cnffrq, naq V oryvrir arire jvyy cnff, nal npg gb rkpyhqr fynirel sebz
gurfr Greevgbevrf; naq pregnvayl abg ol gur Fhcerzr Pbheg, juvpu unf
fbyrzayl qrpvqrq gung fynirf ner cebcregl, naq, yvxr nyy bgure cebcregl,
gurve bjaref unir n evtug gb gnxr gurz vagb gur pbzzba Greevgbevrf naq ubyq
gurz gurer haqre gur cebgrpgvba bs gur Pbafgvghgvba.

Fb sne gura, nf Pbaterff vf pbaprearq, gur bowrpgvba vf abg gb nalguvat
gurl unir nyernql qbar, ohg gb jung gurl znl qb urernsgre. Vg jvyy fheryl
or nqzvggrq gung guvf nccerurafvba bs shgher qnatre vf ab tbbq ernfba sbe
na vzzrqvngr qvffbyhgvba bs gur Havba. Vg vf gehr gung gur Greevgbevny
yrtvfyngher bs Xnafnf, ba gur 23q Sroehnel, 1860, cnffrq va terng unfgr na
npg bire gur irgb bs gur tbireabe qrpynevat gung fynirel "vf naq funyy or
sberire cebuvovgrq va guvf Greevgbel." Fhpu na npg, ubjrire, cynvayl
ivbyngvat gur evtugf bs cebcregl frpherq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba, jvyy fheryl
or qrpynerq ibvq ol gur whqvpvnel jurarire vg funyy or cerfragrq va n yrtny
sbez.

Bayl guerr qnlf nsgre zl vanhthengvba gur Fhcerzr Pbheg bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf fbyrzayl nqwhqtrq gung guvf cbjre qvq abg rkvfg va n Greevgbevny
yrtvfyngher. Lrg fhpu unf orra gur snpgvbhf grzcre bs gur gvzrf gung gur
pbeerpgarff bs guvf qrpvfvba unf orra rkgrafviryl vzchtarq orsber gur
crbcyr, naq gur dhrfgvba unf tvira evfr gb natel cbyvgvpny pbasyvpgf
guebhtubhg gur pbhagel. Gubfr jub unir nccrnyrq sebz guvf whqtzrag bs bhe
uvturfg pbafgvghgvbany gevohany gb cbchyne nffrzoyvrf jbhyq, vs gurl pbhyq,
vairfg n Greevgbevny yrtvfyngher jvgu cbjre gb naahy gur fnperq evtugf bs
cebcregl. Guvf cbjre Pbaterff vf rkcerffyl sbeovqqra ol gur Srqreny
Pbafgvghgvba gb rkrepvfr. Rirel Fgngr yrtvfyngher va gur Havba vf sbeovqqra
ol vgf bja pbafgvghgvba gb rkrepvfr vg. Vg pna abg or rkrepvfrq va nal
Fgngr rkprcg ol gur crbcyr va gurve uvturfg fbirervta pncnpvgl, jura
senzvat be nzraqvat gurve Fgngr pbafgvghgvba. Va yvxr znaare vg pna bayl or
rkrepvfrq ol gur crbcyr bs n Greevgbel ercerfragrq va n pbairagvba bs
qryrtngrf sbe gur checbfr bs senzvat n pbafgvghgvba cercnengbel gb
nqzvffvba nf n Fgngr vagb gur Havba. Gura, naq abg hagvy gura, ner gurl
vairfgrq jvgu cbjre gb qrpvqr gur dhrfgvba jurgure fynirel funyy be funyy
abg rkvfg jvguva gurve yvzvgf. Guvf vf na npg bs fbirervta nhgubevgl, naq
abg bs fhobeqvangr Greevgbevny yrtvfyngvba. Jrer vg bgurejvfr, gura vaqrrq
jbhyq gur rdhnyvgl bs gur Fgngrf va gur Greevgbevrf or qrfgeblrq, naq gur
evtugf bs cebcregl va fynirf jbhyq qrcraq abg hcba gur thnenagvrf bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba, ohg hcba gur fuvsgvat znwbevgvrf bs na veerfcbafvoyr
Greevgbevny yrtvfyngher. Fhpu n qbpgevar, sebz vgf vagevafvp hafbhaqarff,
pna abg ybat vasyhrapr nal pbafvqrenoyr cbegvba bs bhe crbcyr, zhpu yrff
pna vg nssbeq n tbbq ernfba sbe n qvffbyhgvba bs gur Havba.

Gur zbfg cnycnoyr ivbyngvbaf bs pbafgvghgvbany qhgl juvpu unir lrg orra
pbzzvggrq pbafvfg va gur npgf bs qvssrerag Fgngr yrtvfyngherf gb qrsrng gur
rkrphgvba bs gur shtvgvir-fynir ynj. Vg bhtug gb or erzrzorerq, ubjrire,
gung sbe gurfr npgf arvgure Pbaterff abe nal Cerfvqrag pna whfgyl or uryq
erfcbafvoyr. Univat orra cnffrq va ivbyngvba bs gur Srqreny Pbafgvghgvba,
gurl ner gurersber ahyy naq ibvq. Nyy gur pbhegf, obgu Fgngr naq angvbany,
orsber jubz gur dhrfgvba unf nevfra unir sebz gur ortvaavat qrpynerq gur
shtvgvir-fynir ynj gb or pbafgvghgvbany. Gur fvatyr rkprcgvba vf gung bs n
Fgngr pbheg va Jvfpbafva, naq guvf unf abg bayl orra erirefrq ol gur cebcre
nccryyngr gevohany, ohg unf zrg jvgu fhpu havirefny ercebongvba gung gurer
pna or ab qnatre sebz vg nf n cerprqrag. Gur inyvqvgl bs guvf ynj unf orra
rfgnoyvfurq bire naq bire ntnva ol gur Fhcerzr Pbheg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
jvgu cresrpg hanavzvgl. Vg vf ebhaqrq hcba na rkcerff cebivfvba bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba, erdhvevat gung shtvgvir fynirf jub rfpncr sebz freivpr va bar
Fgngr gb nabgure funyy or "qryvirerq hc" gb gurve znfgref. Jvgubhg guvf
cebivfvba vg vf n jryy-xabja uvfgbevpny snpg gung gur Pbafgvghgvba vgfrys
pbhyq arire unir orra nqbcgrq ol gur Pbairagvba. Va bar sbez be bgure,
haqre gur npgf bs 1793 naq 1850, obgu orvat fhofgnagvnyyl gur fnzr, gur
shtvgvir-fynir ynj unf orra gur ynj bs gur ynaq sebz gur qnlf bs Jnfuvatgba
hagvy gur cerfrag zbzrag. Urer, gura, n pyrne pnfr vf cerfragrq va juvpu vg
jvyy or gur qhgl bs gur arkg Cerfvqrag, nf vg unf orra zl bja, gb npg jvgu
ivtbe va rkrphgvat guvf fhcerzr ynj ntnvafg gur pbasyvpgvat ranpgzragf bs
Fgngr yrtvfyngherf. Fubhyq ur snvy va gur cresbeznapr bs guvf uvtu qhgl, ur
jvyy gura unir znavsrfgrq n qvfertneq bs gur Pbafgvghgvba naq ynjf, gb gur
terng vawhel bs gur crbcyr bs arneyl bar-unys bs gur Fgngrf bs gur Havba.
Ohg ner jr gb cerfhzr va nqinapr gung ur jvyy guhf ivbyngr uvf qhgl? Guvf
jbhyq or ng jne jvgu rirel cevapvcyr bs whfgvpr naq bs Puevfgvna punevgl.
Yrg hf jnvg sbe gur bireg npg. Gur shtvgvir-fynir ynj unf orra pneevrq vagb
rkrphgvba va rirel pbagrfgrq pnfr fvapr gur pbzzraprzrag bs gur cerfrag
Nqzvavfgengvba, gubhtu Bsgra, vg vf gb or erterggrq, jvgu terng ybff naq
vapbairavrapr gb gur znfgre naq jvgu pbafvqrenoyr rkcrafr gb gur
Tbireazrag. Yrg hf gehfg gung gur Fgngr yrtvfyngherf jvyy ercrny gurve
hapbafgvghgvbany naq boabkvbhf ranpgzragf. Hayrff guvf funyy or qbar
jvgubhg haarprffnel qrynl, vg vf vzcbffvoyr sbe nal uhzna cbjre gb fnir gur
Havba.

Gur Fbhgurea Fgngrf, fgnaqvat ba gur onfvf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba, unir evtug
gb qrznaq guvf npg bs whfgvpr sebz gur Fgngrf bs gur Abegu. Fubhyq vg or
ershfrq, gura gur Pbafgvghgvba, gb juvpu nyy gur Fgngrf ner cnegvrf, jvyy
unir orra jvyyshyyl ivbyngrq ol bar cbegvba bs gurz va n cebivfvba
rffragvny gb gur qbzrfgvp frphevgl naq unccvarff bs gur erznvaqre. Va gung
rirag gur vawherq Fgngrf, nsgre univat svefg hfrq nyy crnprshy naq
pbafgvghgvbany zrnaf gb bognva erqerff, jbhyq or whfgvsvrq va eribyhgvbanel
erfvfgnapr gb gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havba.

V unir checbfryl pbasvarq zl erznexf gb eribyhgvbanel erfvfgnapr, orpnhfr
vg unf orra pynvzrq jvguva gur ynfg srj lrnef gung nal Fgngr, jurarire guvf
funyy or vgf fbirervta jvyy naq cyrnfher, znl frprqr sebz gur Havba va
nppbeqnapr jvgu gur Pbafgvghgvba naq jvgubhg nal ivbyngvba bs gur
pbafgvghgvbany evtugf bs gur bgure zrzoref bs gur Pbasrqrenpl; gung nf rnpu
orpnzr cnegvrf gb gur Havba ol gur ibgr bs vgf bja crbcyr nffrzoyrq va
pbairagvba, fb nal bar bs gurz znl ergver sebz gur Havba va n fvzvyne
znaare ol gur ibgr bs fhpu n pbairagvba.

Va beqre gb whfgvsl frprffvba nf n pbafgvghgvbany erzrql, vg zhfg or ba gur
cevapvcyr gung gur Srqreny Tbireazrag vf n zrer ibyhagnel nffbpvngvba bs
Fgngrf, gb or qvffbyirq ng cyrnfher ol nal bar bs gur pbagenpgvat cnegvrf.
Vs guvf or fb, gur Pbasrqrenpl vf n ebcr bs fnaq, gb or crargengrq naq
qvffbyirq ol gur svefg nqirefr jnir bs choyvp bcvavba va nal bs gur Fgngrf.
Va guvf znaare bhe guvegl-guerr Fgngrf znl erfbyir gurzfryirf vagb nf znal
crggl, wneevat, naq ubfgvyr erchoyvpf, rnpu bar ergvevat sebz gur Havba
jvgubhg erfcbafvovyvgl jurarire nal fhqqra rkpvgrzrag zvtug vzcry gurz gb
fhpu n pbhefr. Ol guvf cebprff n Havba zvtug or ragveryl oebxra vagb
sentzragf va n srj jrrxf juvpu pbfg bhe sbersnguref znal lrnef bs gbvy,
cevingvba, naq oybbq gb rfgnoyvfu.

Fhpu n cevapvcyr vf jubyyl vapbafvfgrag jvgu gur uvfgbel nf jryy nf gur
punenpgre bs gur Srqreny Pbafgvghgvba. Nsgre vg jnf senzrq jvgu gur
terngrfg qryvorengvba naq pner vg jnf fhozvggrq gb pbairagvbaf bs gur
crbcyr bs gur frireny Fgngrf sbe engvsvpngvba. Vgf cebivfvbaf jrer
qvfphffrq ng yratgu va gurfr obqvrf, pbzcbfrq bs gur svefg zra bs gur
pbhagel. Vgf bccbaragf pbagraqrq gung vg pbasreerq cbjref hcba gur Srqreny
Tbireazrag qnatrebhf gb gur evtugf bs gur Fgngrf, juvyfg vgf nqibpngrf
znvagnvarq gung haqre n snve pbafgehpgvba bs gur vafgehzrag gurer jnf ab
sbhaqngvba sbe fhpu nccerurafvbaf. Va gung zvtugl fgehttyr orgjrra gur
svefg vagryyrpgf bs guvf be nal bgure pbhagel vg arire bppheerq gb nal
vaqvivqhny, rvgure nzbat vgf bccbaragf be nqibpngrf, gb nffreg be rira gb
vagvzngr gung gurve rssbegf jrer nyy inva ynobe, orpnhfr gur zbzrag gung
nal Fgngr sryg urefrys nttevrirq fur zvtug frprqr sebz gur Havba. Jung n
pehfuvat nethzrag jbhyq guvf unir cebirq ntnvafg gubfr jub qernqrq gung gur
evtugf bs gur Fgngrf jbhyq or raqnatrerq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba! Gur gehgu vf
gung vg jnf abg hagvy znal lrnef nsgre gur bevtva bs gur Srqreny Tbireazrag
gung fhpu n cebcbfvgvba jnf svefg nqinaprq. Vg jnf gura zrg naq ershgrq ol
gur pbapyhfvir nethzragf bs Trareny Wnpxfba, jub va uvf zrffntr bs gur 16gu
bs Wnahnel, 1833, genafzvggvat gur ahyyvslvat beqvanapr bs Fbhgu Pnebyvan
gb Pbaterff, rzcyblf gur sbyybjvat ynathntr:

Gur evtug bs gur crbcyr bs n fvatyr Fgngr gb nofbyir gurzfryirf ng jvyy naq
jvgubhg gur pbafrag bs gur bgure Fgngrf sebz gurve zbfg fbyrza boyvtngvbaf,
naq unmneq gur yvoregvrf naq unccvarff bs gur zvyyvbaf pbzcbfvat guvf
Havba, pna abg or npxabjyrqtrq. Fhpu nhgubevgl vf oryvrirq gb or hggreyl
erchtanag obgu gb gur cevapvcyrf hcba juvpu gur Trareny Tbireazrag vf
pbafgvghgrq naq gb gur bowrpgf juvpu vg vf rkcerffyl sbezrq gb nggnva.

Vg vf abg cergraqrq gung nal pynhfr va gur Pbafgvghgvba tvirf pbhagranapr
gb fhpu n gurbel. Vg vf nygbtrgure ebhaqrq hcba vasrerapr; abg sebz nal
ynathntr pbagnvarq va gur vafgehzrag vgfrys, ohg sebz gur fbirervta
punenpgre bs gur frireny Fgngrf ol juvpu vg jnf engvsvrq. Ohg vf vg orlbaq
gur cbjre bs n Fgngr, yvxr na vaqvivqhny, gb lvryq n cbegvba bs vgf
fbirervta evtugf gb frpher gur erznvaqre? Va gur ynathntr bs Ze. Znqvfba,
jub unf orra pnyyrq gur sngure bs gur Pbafgvghgvba--

Vg jnf sbezrq ol gur Fgngrf; gung vf, ol gur crbcyr va rnpu bs gur Fgngrf
npgvat va gurve uvturfg fbirervta pncnpvgl, naq sbezrq, pbafrdhragyl, ol
gur fnzr nhgubevgl juvpu sbezrq gur Fgngr pbafgvghgvbaf. Abe vf gur
Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, perngrq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba, yrff n
tbireazrag, va gur fgevpg frafr bs gur grez, jvguva gur fcurer bs vgf
cbjref guna gur tbireazragf perngrq ol gur pbafgvghgvbaf bs gur Fgngrf ner
jvguva gurve frireny fcurerf. Vg vf, yvxr gurz, betnavmrq vagb yrtvfyngvir,
rkrphgvir, naq whqvpvnel qrcnegzragf. Vg bcrengrf, yvxr gurz qverpgyl ba
crefbaf naq guvatf, naq, yvxr gurz, vg unf ng pbzznaq n culfvpny sbepr sbe
rkrphgvat gur cbjref pbzzvggrq gb vg.

Vg jnf vagraqrq gb or crecrghny, naq abg gb or naahyyrq ng gur cyrnfher bs
nal bar bs gur pbagenpgvat cnegvrf. Gur byq Negvpyrf bs Pbasrqrengvba jrer
ragvgyrq "Negvpyrf bs Pbasrqrengvba naq Crecrghny Havba orgjrra gur
Fgngrf," naq ol gur guvegrragu negvpyr vg vf rkcerffyl qrpynerq gung "gur
negvpyrf bs guvf Pbasrqrengvba funyy or vaivbynoyl bofreirq ol rirel Fgngr,
naq gur Havba funyy or crecrghny." Gur cernzoyr gb gur Pbafgvghgvba bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, univat rkcerff ersrerapr gb gur Negvpyrf bs Pbasrqrengvba,
erpvgrf gung vg jnf rfgnoyvfurq "va beqre gb sbez n zber cresrpg havba."
Naq lrg vg vf pbagraqrq gung guvf "zber cresrpg havba" qbrf abg vapyhqr gur
rffragvny nggevohgr bs crecrghvgl.

Ohg gung gur Havba jnf qrfvtarq gb or crecrghny nccrnef pbapyhfviryl sebz
gur angher naq rkgrag bs gur cbjref pbasreerq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba ba gur
Srqreny Tbireazrag. Gurfr cbjref rzoenpr gur irel uvturfg nggevohgrf bs
angvbany fbirervtagl. Gurl cynpr obgu gur fjbeq naq gur chefr haqre vgf
pbageby. Pbaterff unf cbjre gb znxr jne naq gb znxr crnpr, gb envfr naq
fhccbeg nezvrf naq anivrf, naq gb pbapyhqr gerngvrf jvgu sbervta
tbireazragf. Vg vf vairfgrq jvgu gur cbjre gb pbva zbarl naq gb erthyngr
gur inyhr gurerbs, naq gb erthyngr pbzzrepr jvgu sbervta angvbaf naq nzbat
gur frireny Fgngrf. Vg vf abg arprffnel gb rahzrengr gur bgure uvtu cbjref
juvpu unir orra pbasreerq hcba gur Srqreny Tbireazrag. Va beqre gb pneel
gur rahzrengrq cbjref vagb rssrpg, Pbaterff cbffrffrf gur rkpyhfvir evtug
gb ynl naq pbyyrpg qhgvrf ba vzcbegf, naq, va pbzzba jvgu gur Fgngrf, gb
ynl naq pbyyrpg nyy bgure gnkrf.

Ohg gur Pbafgvghgvba unf abg bayl pbasreerq gurfr uvtu cbjref hcba
Pbaterff, ohg vg unf nqbcgrq rssrpghny zrnaf gb erfgenva gur Fgngrf sebz
vagresrevat jvgu gurve rkrepvfr. Sbe gung checbfr vg unf va fgebat
cebuvovgbel ynathntr rkcerffyl qrpynerq gung--

Ab Fgngr funyy ragre vagb nal gerngl, nyyvnapr, be pbasrqrengvba; tenag
yrggref bs znedhr naq ercevfny; pbva zbarl; rzvg ovyyf bs perqvg; znxr
nalguvat ohg tbyq naq fvyire pbva n graqre va cnlzrag bs qrogf; cnff nal
ovyy bs nggnvaqre, rk cbfg snpgb ynj, be ynj vzcnvevat gur boyvtngvba bs
pbagenpgf. Zberbire--

Ab Fgngr funyy jvgubhg gur pbafrag bs gur Pbaterff ynl nal vzcbfgf be
qhgvrf ba vzcbegf be rkcbegf, rkprcg jung znl or nofbyhgryl arprffnel sbe
rkrphgvat vgf vafcrpgvba ynjf.

Naq vs gurl rkprrq guvf nzbhag gur rkprff funyy orybat, gb gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Naq--

Ab Fgngr funyy jvgubhg gur pbafrag bs Pbaterff ynl nal qhgl bs gbaantr,
xrrc gebbcf be fuvcf bs jne va gvzr bs crnpr, ragre vagb nal nterrzrag be
pbzcnpg jvgu nabgure Fgngr be jvgu n sbervta cbjre, be ratntr va jne,
hayrff npghnyyl vainqrq be va fhpu vzzvarag qnatre nf jvyy abg nqzvg bs
qrynl.

Va beqre fgvyy shegure gb frpher gur havagreehcgrq rkrepvfr bs gurfr uvtu
cbjref ntnvafg Fgngr vagrecbfvgvba, vg vf cebivqrq gung--

Guvf Pbafgvghgvba naq gur ynjf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf juvpu funyy or znqr va
chefhnapr gurerbs, naq nyy gerngvrf znqr be juvpu funyy or znqr haqre gur
nhgubevgl bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, funyy or gur fhcerzr ynj bs gur ynaq, naq
gur whqtrf va rirel Fgngr funyy or obhaq gurerol, nalguvat va gur
pbafgvghgvba be ynjf bs nal Fgngr gb gur pbagenel abgjvgufgnaqvat.

Gur fbyrza fnapgvba bs eryvtvba unf orra fhcrenqqrq gb gur boyvtngvbaf bs
bssvpvny qhgl, naq nyy Frangbef naq Ercerfragngvirf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
nyy zrzoref bs Fgngr yrtvfyngherf, naq nyy rkrphgvir naq whqvpvny bssvpref,
"obgu bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq bs gur frireny Fgngrf, funyy or obhaq ol
bngu be nssvezngvba gb fhccbeg guvf Pbafgvghgvba."

Va beqre gb pneel vagb rssrpg gurfr cbjref, gur Pbafgvghgvba unf
rfgnoyvfurq n cresrpg Tbireazrag va nyy vgf sbezf--yrtvfyngvir, rkrphgvir,
naq whqvpvny; naq guvf Tbireazrag gb gur rkgrag bs vgf cbjref npgf qverpgyl
hcba gur vaqvivqhny pvgvmraf bs rirel Fgngr, naq rkrphgrf vgf bja qrperrf
ol gur ntrapl bs vgf bja bssvpref. Va guvf erfcrpg vg qvssref ragveryl sebz
gur Tbireazrag haqre gur byq Pbasrqrengvba, juvpu jnf pbasvarq gb znxvat
erdhvfvgvbaf ba gur Fgngrf va gurve fbirervta punenpgre. Guvf yrsg vg va
gur qvfpergvba bs rnpu jurgure gb borl be gb ershfr, naq gurl bsgra
qrpyvarq gb pbzcyl jvgu fhpu erdhvfvgvbaf. Vg guhf orpnzr arprffnel sbe gur
checbfr bs erzbivat guvf oneevre naq "va beqre gb sbez n zber cresrpg
havba" gb rfgnoyvfu n Tbireazrag juvpu pbhyq npg qverpgyl hcba gur crbcyr
naq rkrphgr vgf bja ynjf jvgubhg gur vagrezrqvngr ntrapl bs gur Fgngrf.
Guvf unf orra nppbzcyvfurq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Va
fubeg, gur Tbireazrag perngrq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba, naq qrevivat vgf
nhgubevgl sebz gur fbirervta crbcyr bs rnpu bs gur frireny Fgngrf, unf
cerpvfryl gur fnzr evtug gb rkrepvfr vgf cbjre bire gur crbcyr bs nyy gurfr
Fgngrf va gur rahzrengrq pnfrf gung rnpu bar bs gurz cbffrffrf bire
fhowrpgf abg qryrtngrq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ohg "erfreirq gb gur Fgngrf
erfcrpgviryl be gb gur crbcyr."

Gb gur rkgrag bs gur qryrtngrq cbjref gur Pbafgvghgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
vf nf zhpu n cneg bs gur pbafgvghgvba bs rnpu Fgngr naq vf nf ovaqvat hcba
vgf crbcyr nf gubhtu vg unq orra grkghnyyl vafregrq gurerva.

Guvf Tbireazrag, gurersber, vf n terng naq cbjreshy Tbireazrag, vairfgrq
jvgu nyy gur nggevohgrf bs fbirervtagl bire gur fcrpvny fhowrpgf gb juvpu
vgf nhgubevgl rkgraqf. Vgf senzref arire vagraqrq gb vzcynag va vgf obfbz
gur frrqf bs vgf bja qrfgehpgvba, abe jrer gurl ng vgf perngvba thvygl bs
gur nofheqvgl bs cebivqvat sbe vgf bja qvffbyhgvba. Vg jnf abg vagraqrq ol
vgf senzref gb or gur onfryrff snoevp bs n ivfvba, juvpu ng gur gbhpu bs
gur rapunagre jbhyq inavfu vagb guva nve, ohg n fhofgnagvny naq zvtugl
snoevp, pncnoyr bs erfvfgvat gur fybj qrpnl bs gvzr naq bs qrslvat gur
fgbezf bs ntrf. Vaqrrq, jryy znl gur wrnybhf cngevbgf bs gung qnl unir
vaqhytrq srnef gung n Tbireazrag bs fhpu uvtu cbjref zvtug ivbyngr gur
erfreirq evtugf bs gur Fgngrf, naq jvfryl qvq gurl nqbcg gur ehyr bs n
fgevpg pbafgehpgvba bs gurfr cbjref gb cerirag gur qnatre. Ohg gurl qvq abg
srne, abe unq gurl nal ernfba gb vzntvar, gung gur Pbafgvghgvba jbhyq rire
or fb vagrecergrq nf gb ranoyr nal Fgngr ol ure bja npg, naq jvgubhg gur
pbafrag bs ure fvfgre Fgngrf, gb qvfpunetr ure crbcyr sebz nyy be nal bs
gurve srqreny boyvtngvbaf.

Vg znl or nfxrq, gura, Ner gur crbcyr bs gur Fgngrf jvgubhg erqerff ntnvafg
gur glenaal naq bccerffvba bs gur Srqreny Tbireazrag? Ol ab zrnaf. Gur
evtug bs erfvfgnapr ba gur cneg bs gur tbirearq ntnvafg gur bccerffvba bs
gurve tbireazragf pna abg or qravrq. Vg rkvfgf vaqrcraqragyl bs nyy
pbafgvghgvbaf, naq unf orra rkrepvfrq ng nyy crevbqf bs gur jbeyq'f
uvfgbel. Haqre vg byq tbireazragf unir orra qrfgeblrq naq arj barf unir
gnxra gurve cynpr. Vg vf rzobqvrq va fgebat naq rkcerff ynathntr va bhe bja
Qrpynengvba bs Vaqrcraqrapr. Ohg gur qvfgvapgvba zhfg rire or bofreirq gung
guvf vf eribyhgvba ntnvafg na rfgnoyvfurq tbireazrag, naq abg n ibyhagnel
frprffvba sebz vg ol iveghr bs na vaurerag pbafgvghgvbany evtug. Va fubeg,
yrg hf ybbx gur qnatre snveyl va gur snpr. Frprffvba vf arvgure zber abe
yrff guna eribyhgvba. Vg znl be vg znl abg or n whfgvsvnoyr eribyhgvba, ohg
fgvyy vg vf eribyhgvba.

Jung, va gur zrnagvzr, vf gur erfcbafvovyvgl naq gehr cbfvgvba bs gur
Rkrphgvir? Ur vf obhaq ol fbyrza bngu, orsber Tbq naq gur pbhagel, "gb gnxr
pner gung gur ynjf or snvgushyyl rkrphgrq," naq sebz guvf boyvtngvba ur pna
abg or nofbyirq ol nal uhzna cbjre. Ohg jung vs gur cresbeznapr bs guvf
qhgl, va jubyr be va cneg, unf orra eraqrerq vzcenpgvpnoyr ol riragf bire
juvpu ur pbhyq unir rkrepvfrq ab pbageby? Fhpu ng gur cerfrag zbzrag vf gur
pnfr guebhtubhg gur Fgngr bs Fbhgu Pnebyvan fb sne nf gur ynjf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf gb frpher gur nqzvavfgengvba bs whfgvpr ol zrnaf bs gur
Srqreny whqvpvnel ner pbaprearq. Nyy gur Srqreny bssvpref jvguva vgf yvzvgf
guebhtu jubfr ntrapl nybar gurfr ynjf pna or pneevrq vagb rkrphgvba unir
nyernql erfvtarq. Jr ab ybatre unir n qvfgevpg whqtr, n qvfgevpg nggbearl,
be n znefuny va Fbhgu Pnebyvan. Va snpg, gur jubyr znpuvarel bs gur Srqreny
Tbireazrag arprffnel sbe gur qvfgevohgvba bs erzrqvny whfgvpr nzbat gur
crbcyr unf orra qrzbyvfurq, naq vg jbhyq or qvssvphyg, vs abg vzcbffvoyr,
gb ercynpr vg.

Gur bayl npgf bs Pbaterff ba gur fgnghgr obbx ornevat hcba guvf fhowrpg ner
gubfr bs Sroehnel 28, 1795, naq Znepu 3, 1807. Gurfr nhgubevmr gur
Cerfvqrag, nsgre ur funyy unir nfpregnvarq gung gur znefuny, jvgu uvf cbffr
pbzvgnghf, vf hanoyr gb rkrphgr pvivy be pevzvany cebprff va nal cnegvphyne
pnfr, gb pnyy sbegu gur zvyvgvn naq rzcybl gur Nezl naq Anil gb nvq uvz va
cresbezvat guvf freivpr, univat svefg ol cebpynzngvba pbzznaqrq gur
vafhetragf "gb qvfcrefr naq ergver crnprnoyl gb gurve erfcrpgvir nobqrf
jvguva n yvzvgrq gvzr" Guvf qhgl pna abg ol cbffvovyvgl or cresbezrq va n
Fgngr jurer ab whqvpvny nhgubevgl rkvfgf gb vffhr cebprff, naq jurer gurer
vf ab znefuny gb rkrphgr vg, naq jurer, rira vs gurer jrer fhpu na bssvpre,
gur ragver cbchyngvba jbhyq pbafgvghgr bar fbyvq pbzovangvba gb erfvfg
uvz.

Gur oner rahzrengvba bs gurfr cebivfvbaf cebirf ubj vanqrdhngr gurl ner
jvgubhg shegure yrtvfyngvba gb birepbzr n havgrq bccbfvgvba va n fvatyr
Fgngr, abg gb fcrnx bs bgure Fgngrf jub znl cynpr gurzfryirf va n fvzvyne
nggvghqr. Pbaterff nybar unf cbjre gb qrpvqr jurgure gur cerfrag ynjf pna
be pna abg or nzraqrq fb nf gb pneel bhg zber rssrpghnyyl gur bowrpgf bs
gur Pbafgvghgvba.

Gur fnzr vafhcrenoyr bofgnpyrf qb abg yvr va gur jnl bs rkrphgvat gur ynjf
sbe gur pbyyrpgvba bs gur phfgbzf. Gur erirahr fgvyy pbagvahrf gb or
pbyyrpgrq nf urergbsber ng gur phfgbz-ubhfr va Puneyrfgba, naq fubhyq gur
pbyyrpgbe hasbeghangryl erfvta n fhpprffbe znl or nccbvagrq gb cresbez guvf
qhgl.

Gura, va ertneq gb gur cebcregl bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va Fbhgu Pnebyvan.
Guvf unf orra chepunfrq sbe n snve rdhvinyrag, "ol gur pbafrag bs gur
yrtvfyngher bs gur Fgngr," "sbe gur rerpgvba bs sbegf, zntnmvarf,
nefranyf," rgp., naq bire gurfr gur nhgubevgl "gb rkrepvfr rkpyhfvir
yrtvfyngvba" unf orra rkcerffyl tenagrq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba gb Pbaterff. Vg
vf abg oryvrirq gung nal nggrzcg jvyy or znqr gb rkcry gur Havgrq Fgngrf
sebz guvf cebcregl ol sbepr; ohg vs va guvf V fubhyq cebir gb or zvfgnxra,
gur bssvpre va pbzznaq bs gur sbegf unf erprvirq beqref gb npg fgevpgyl ba
gur qrsrafvir. Va fhpu n pbagvatrapl gur erfcbafvovyvgl sbe pbafrdhraprf
jbhyq evtugshyyl erfg hcba gur urnqf bs gur nffnvynagf.

Ncneg sebz gur rkrphgvba bs gur ynjf, fb sne nf guvf znl or cenpgvpnoyr,
gur Rkrphgvir unf ab nhgubevgl gb qrpvqr jung funyy or gur eryngvbaf
orgjrra gur Srqreny Tbireazrag naq Fbhgu Pnebyvan. Ur unf orra vairfgrq
jvgu ab fhpu qvfpergvba. Ur cbffrffrf ab cbjre gb punatr gur eryngvbaf
urergbsber rkvfgvat orgjrra gurz, zhpu yrff gb npxabjyrqtr gur vaqrcraqrapr
bs gung Fgngr. Guvf jbhyq or gb vairfg n zrer rkrphgvir bssvpre jvgu gur
cbjre bs erpbtavmvat gur qvffbyhgvba bs gur pbasrqrenpl nzbat bhe
guvegl-guerr fbirervta Fgngrf. Vg ornef ab erfrzoynapr gb gur erpbtavgvba
bs n sbervta qr snpgb tbireazrag, vaibyivat ab fhpu erfcbafvovyvgl. Nal
nggrzcg gb qb guvf jbhyq, ba uvf cneg, or n anxrq npg bs hfhecngvba. Vg vf
gurersber zl qhgl gb fhozvg gb Pbaterff gur jubyr dhrfgvba va nyy vgf
orngvatf. Gur pbhefr bs riragf vf fb encvqyl unfgravat sbejneq gung gur
rzretrapl znl fbba nevfr jura lbh znl or pnyyrq hcba gb qrpvqr gur
zbzragbhf dhrfgvba jurgure lbh cbffrff gur cbjre ol sbepr bs nezf gb pbzcry
n Fgngr gb erznva va gur Havba. V fubhyq srry zlfrys erpernag gb zl qhgl
jrer V abg gb rkcerff na bcvavba ba guvf vzcbegnag fhowrpg.

Gur dhrfgvba snveyl fgngrq vf, Unf gur Pbafgvghgvba qryrtngrq gb Pbaterff
gur cbjre gb pbrepr n Fgngr vagb fhozvffvba juvpu vf nggrzcgvat gb jvguqenj
be unf npghnyyl jvguqenja sebz gur Pbasrqrenpl? Vs nafjrerq va gur
nssvezngvir, vg zhfg or ba gur cevapvcyr gung gur cbjre unf orra pbasreerq
hcba Pbaterff gb qrpyner naq gb znxr jne ntnvafg n Fgngr. Nsgre zhpu
frevbhf ersyrpgvba V unir neevirq ng gur pbapyhfvba gung ab fhpu cbjre unf
orra qryrtngrq gb Pbaterff be gb nal bgure qrcnegzrag bs gur Srqreny
Tbireazrag. Vg vf znavsrfg hcba na vafcrpgvba bs gur Pbafgvghgvba gung guvf
vf abg nzbat gur fcrpvsvp naq rahzrengrq cbjref tenagrq gb Pbaterff, naq vg
vf rdhnyyl nccnerag gung vgf rkrepvfr vf abg "arprffnel naq cebcre sbe
pneelvat vagb rkrphgvba" nal bar bs gurfr cbjref. Fb sne sebz guvf cbjre
univat orra qryrtngrq gb Pbaterff, vg jnf rkcerffyl ershfrq ol gur
Pbairagvba juvpu senzrq gur Pbafgvghgvba.

Vg nccrnef sebz gur cebprrqvatf bs gung obql gung ba gur 31fg Znl, 1787,
gur pynhfr "nhgubevmvat na rkregvba bs gur sbepr bs gur jubyr ntnvafg n
qryvadhrag Fgngr" pnzr hc sbe pbafvqrengvba. Ze. Znqvfba bccbfrq vg va n
oevrs ohg cbjreshy fcrrpu, sebz juvpu V funyy rkgenpg ohg n fvatyr
fragrapr. Ur bofreirq:

Gur hfr bs sbepr ntnvafg n Fgngr jbhyq ybbx zber yvxr n qrpynengvba bs jne
guna na vasyvpgvba bs chavfuzrag, naq jbhyq cebonoyl or pbafvqrerq ol gur
cnegl nggnpxrq nf n qvffbyhgvba bs nyy cerivbhf pbzcnpgf ol juvpu vg zvtug
or obhaq.

Hcba uvf zbgvba gur pynhfr jnf hanavzbhfyl cbfgcbarq, naq jnf arire, V
oryvrir, ntnva cerfragrq. Fbba nsgrejneqf, ba gur 8gu Whar, 1787, jura
vapvqragnyyl nqiregvat gb gur fhowrpg, ur fnvq: "Nal tbireazrag sbe gur
Havgrq Fgngrf sbezrq ba gur fhccbfrq cenpgvpnovyvgl bs hfvat sbepr ntnvafg
gur hapbafgvghgvbany cebprrqvatf bs gur Fgngrf jbhyq cebir nf ivfvbanel naq
snyynpvbhf nf gur tbireazrag bs Pbaterff," rivqragyl zrnavat gur gura
rkvfgvat Pbaterff bs gur byq Pbasrqrengvba.

Jvgubhg qrfpraqvat gb cnegvphynef, vg znl or fnsryl nffregrq gung gur cbjre
gb znxr jne ntnvafg n Fgngr vf ng inevnapr jvgu gur jubyr fcvevg naq vagrag
bs gur Pbafgvghgvba. Fhccbfr fhpu n jne fubhyq erfhyg va gur pbadhrfg bs n
Fgngr; ubj ner jr gb tbirea vg nsgrejneqf? Funyy jr ubyq vg nf n cebivapr
naq tbirea vg ol qrfcbgvp cbjre? Va gur angher bs guvatf, jr pbhyq abg ol
culfvpny sbepr pbageby gur jvyy bs gur crbcyr naq pbzcry gurz gb ryrpg
Frangbef naq Ercerfragngvirf gb Pbaterff naq gb cresbez nyy gur bgure
qhgvrf qrcraqvat hcba gurve bja ibyvgvba naq erdhverq sebz gur serr
pvgvmraf bs n serr Fgngr nf n pbafgvghrag zrzore bs gur Pbasrqrenpl.

Ohg vs jr cbffrffrq guvf cbjre, jbhyq vg or jvfr gb rkrepvfr vg haqre
rkvfgvat pvephzfgnaprf? Gur bowrpg jbhyq qbhogyrff or gb cerfreir gur
Havba. Jne jbhyq abg bayl cerfrag gur zbfg rssrpghny zrnaf bs qrfgeblvat
vg, ohg jbhyq inavfu nyy ubcr bs vgf crnprnoyr erpbafgehpgvba. Orfvqrf, va
gur sengreany pbasyvpg n infg nzbhag bs oybbq naq gernfher jbhyq or
rkcraqrq, eraqrevat shgher erpbapvyvngvba orgjrra gur Fgngrf vzcbffvoyr. Va
gur zrnagvzr, jub pna sbergryy jung jbhyq or gur fhssrevatf naq cevingvbaf
bs gur crbcyr qhevat vgf rkvfgrapr?

Gur snpg vf gung bhe Havba erfgf hcba choyvp bcvavba, naq pna arire or
przragrq ol gur oybbq bs vgf pvgvmraf furq va pvivy jne. Vs vg pna abg yvir
va gur nssrpgvbaf bs gur crbcyr, vg zhfg bar qnl crevfu. Pbaterff cbffrffrf
znal zrnaf bs cerfreivat vg ol pbapvyvngvba, ohg gur fjbeq jnf abg cynprq
va gurve unaq gb cerfreir vg ol sbepr.

Ohg znl V or crezvggrq fbyrzayl gb vaibxr zl pbhagelzra gb cnhfr naq
qryvorengr orsber gurl qrgrezvar gb qrfgebl guvf gur tenaqrfg grzcyr juvpu
unf rire orra qrqvpngrq gb uhzna serrqbz fvapr gur jbeyq ortna? Vg unf orra
pbafrpengrq ol gur oybbq bs bhe snguref, ol gur tybevrf bs gur cnfg, naq ol
gur ubcrf bs gur shgher. Gur Havba unf nyernql znqr hf gur zbfg cebfcrebhf,
naq rer ybat jvyy, vs cerfreirq, eraqre hf gur zbfg cbjreshy, angvba ba gur
snpr bs gur rnegu. Va rirel sbervta ertvba bs gur tybor gur gvgyr bs
Nzrevpna pvgvmra vf uryq va gur uvturfg erfcrpg, naq jura cebabhaprq va n
sbervta ynaq vg pnhfrf gur urnegf bs bhe pbhagelzra gb fjryy jvgu ubarfg
cevqr. Fheryl jura jr ernpu gur oevax bs gur lnjavat nolff jr funyy erpbvy
jvgu ubeebe sebz gur ynfg sngny cyhatr.

Ol fhpu n qernq pngnfgebcur gur ubcrf bs gur sevraqf bs serrqbz guebhtubhg
gur jbeyq jbhyq or qrfgeblrq, naq n ybat avtug bs yrnqra qrfcbgvfz jbhyq
rafuebhq gur angvbaf. Bhe rknzcyr sbe zber guna rvtugl lrnef jbhyq abg bayl
or ybfg, ohg vg jbhyq or dhbgrq nf n pbapyhfvir cebbs gung zna vf hasvg sbe
frys-tbireazrag.

Vg vf abg rirel jebat--anl, vg vf abg rirel tevribhf jebat--juvpu pna
whfgvsl n erfbeg gb fhpu n srneshy nygreangvir. Guvf bhtug gb or gur ynfg
qrfcrengr erzrql bs n qrfcnvevat crbcyr, nsgre rirel bgure pbafgvghgvbany
zrnaf bs pbapvyvngvba unq orra rkunhfgrq. Jr fubhyq ersyrpg gung haqre guvf
serr Tbireazrag gurer vf na vaprffnag roo naq sybj va choyvp bcvavba. Gur
fynirel dhrfgvba, yvxr rirelguvat uhzna, jvyy unir vgf qnl. V svezyl
oryvrir gung vg unf ernpurq naq cnffrq gur phyzvangvat cbvag. Ohg vs va gur
zvqfg bs gur rkvfgvat rkpvgrzrag gur Havba funyy crevfu, gur rivy znl gura
orpbzr veercnenoyr.

Pbaterff pna pbagevohgr zhpu gb nireg vg ol cebcbfvat naq erpbzzraqvat gb
gur yrtvfyngherf bs gur frireny Fgngrf gur erzrql sbe rkvfgvat rivyf juvpu
gur Pbafgvghgvba unf vgfrys cebivqrq sbe vgf bja cerfreingvba. Guvf unf
orra gevrq ng qvssrerag pevgvpny crevbqf bs bhe uvfgbel, naq nyjnlf jvgu
rzvarag fhpprff. Vg vf gb or sbhaq va gur svsgu negvpyr, cebivqvat sbe vgf
bja nzraqzrag. Haqre guvf negvpyr nzraqzragf unir orra cebcbfrq ol
gjb-guveqf bs obgu Ubhfrf bs Pbaterff, naq unir orra "engvsvrq ol gur
yrtvfyngherf bs guerr-sbheguf bs gur frireny Fgngrf," naq unir pbafrdhragyl
orpbzr cnegf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba. Gb guvf cebprff gur pbhagel vf vaqrogrq
sbe gur pynhfr cebuvovgvat Pbaterff sebz cnffvat nal ynj erfcrpgvat na
rfgnoyvfuzrag bs eryvtvba be noevqtvat gur serrqbz bs fcrrpu be bs gur
cerff be bs gur evtug bs crgvgvba. Gb guvf jr ner nyfb vaqrogrq sbe gur
ovyy bs evtugf juvpu frpherf gur crbcyr ntnvafg nal nohfr bs cbjre ol gur
Srqreny Tbireazrag. Fhpu jrer gur nccerurafvbaf whfgyl ragregnvarq ol gur
sevraqf bs Fgngr evtugf ng gung crevbq nf gb unir eraqrerq vg rkgerzryl
qbhogshy jurgure gur Pbafgvghgvba pbhyq unir ybat fheivirq jvgubhg gubfr
nzraqzragf.

Ntnva gur Pbafgvghgvba jnf nzraqrq ol gur fnzr cebprff, nsgre gur ryrpgvba
bs Cerfvqrag Wrssrefba ol gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf, va Sroehnel, 1803.
Guvf nzraqzrag jnf eraqrerq arprffnel gb cerirag n erpheerapr bs gur
qnatref juvpu unq frevbhfyl guerngrarq gur rkvfgrapr bs gur Tbireazrag
qhevat gur craqrapl bs gung ryrpgvba. Gur negvpyr sbe vgf bja nzraqzrag jnf
vagraqrq gb frpher gur nzvpnoyr nqwhfgzrag bs pbasyvpgvat pbafgvghgvbany
dhrfgvbaf yvxr gur cerfrag juvpu zvtug nevfr orgjrra gur tbireazragf bs gur
Fgngrf naq gung bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Guvf nccrnef sebz pbagrzcbenarbhf
uvfgbel. Va guvf pbaarpgvba V funyy zreryl pnyy nggragvba gb n srj
fragraprf va Ze. Znqvfba'f whfgyl pryroengrq ercbeg, va 1799, gb gur
yrtvfyngher bs Ivetvavn. Va guvf ur noyl naq pbapyhfviryl qrsraqrq gur
erfbyhgvbaf bs gur cerprqvat yrtvfyngher ntnvafg gur fgevpgherf bs frireny
bgure Fgngr yrtvfyngherf. Gurfr jrer znvayl ebhaqrq hcba gur cebgrfg bs gur
Ivetvavn yrtvfyngher ntnvafg gur "nyvra naq frqvgvba npgf," nf "cnycnoyr
naq nynezvat vasenpgvbaf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba." Va cbvagvat bhg gur crnprshy
naq pbafgvghgvbany erzrqvrf--naq ur ersreerq gb abar bgure--gb juvpu gur
Fgngrf jrer nhgubevmrq gb erfbeg ba fhpu bppnfvbaf, ur pbapyhqrf ol fnlvat
gung--

Gur yrtvfyngherf bs gur Fgngrf zvtug unir znqr n qverpg ercerfragngvba gb
Pbaterff jvgu n ivrj gb bognva n erfpvaqvat bs gur gjb bssrafvir npgf, be
gurl zvtug unir ercerfragrq gb gurve erfcrpgvir Frangbef va Pbaterff gurve
jvfu gung gjb-guveqf gurerbs jbhyq cebcbfr na rkcynangbel nzraqzrag gb gur
Pbafgvghgvba; be gjb-guveqf bs gurzfryirf, vs fhpu unq orra gurve bcgvba,
zvtug ol na nccyvpngvba gb Pbaterff unir bognvarq n pbairagvba sbe gur fnzr
bowrpg.

Guvf vf gur irel pbhefr juvpu V rnearfgyl erpbzzraq va beqre gb bognva na
"rkcynangbel nzraqzrag" bs gur Pbafgvghgvba ba gur fhowrpg bs fynirel. Guvf
zvtug bevtvangr jvgu Pbaterff be gur Fgngr yrtvfyngherf, nf znl or qrrzrq
zbfg nqivfnoyr gb nggnva gur bowrpg. Gur rkcynangbel nzraqzrag zvtug or
pbasvarq gb gur svany frggyrzrag bs gur gehr pbafgehpgvba bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba ba guerr fcrpvny cbvagf:

1. Na rkcerff erpbtavgvba bs gur evtug bs cebcregl va fynirf va gur Fgngrf
jurer vg abj rkvfgf be znl urernsgre rkvfg.

2. Gur qhgl bs cebgrpgvat guvf evtug va nyy gur pbzzba Greevgbevrf
guebhtubhg gurve Greevgbevny rkvfgrapr, naq hagvy gurl funyy or nqzvggrq nf
Fgngrf vagb gur Havba, jvgu be jvgubhg fynirel, nf gurve pbafgvghgvbaf znl
cerfpevor.

3. N yvxr erpbtavgvba bs gur evtug bs gur znfgre gb unir uvf fynir jub unf
rfpncrq sebz bar Fgngr gb nabgure erfgberq naq "qryvirerq hc" gb uvz, naq
bs gur inyvqvgl bs gur shtvgvir-fynir ynj ranpgrq sbe guvf checbfr,
gbtrgure jvgu n qrpynengvba gung nyy Fgngr ynjf vzcnvevat be qrsrngvat guvf
evtug ner ivbyngvbaf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba, naq ner pbafrdhragyl ahyy naq
ibvq. Vg znl or bowrpgrq gung guvf pbafgehpgvba bs gur Pbafgvghgvba unf
nyernql orra frggyrq ol gur Fhcerzr Pbheg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, naq jung
zber bhtug gb or erdhverq? Gur nafjre vf gung n irel ynetr cebcbegvba bs
gur crbcyr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf fgvyy pbagrfg gur pbeerpgarff bs guvf
qrpvfvba, naq arire jvyy prnfr sebz ntvgngvba naq nqzvg vgf ovaqvat sbepr
hagvy pyrneyl rfgnoyvfurq ol gur crbcyr bs gur frireny Fgngrf va gurve
fbirervta punenpgre. Fhpu na rkcynangbel nzraqzrag jbhyq, vg vf oryvrirq,
sberire grezvangr gur rkvfgvat qvffrafvbaf, naq erfgber crnpr naq unezbal
nzbat gur Fgngrf.

Vg bhtug abg gb or qbhogrq gung fhpu na nccrny gb gur neovgenzrag
rfgnoyvfurq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba vgfrys jbhyq or erprvirq jvgu snibe ol nyy
gur Fgngrf bs gur Pbasrqrenpl. Va nal rirag, vg bhtug gb or gevrq va n
fcvevg bs pbapvyvngvba orsber nal bs gurfr Fgngrf funyy frcnengr gurzfryirf
sebz gur Havba.

Jura V ragrerq hcba gur qhgvrf bs gur Cerfvqragvny bssvpr, gur nfcrpg
arvgure bs bhe sbervta abe qbzrfgvp nssnvef jnf ng nyy fngvfsnpgbel. Jr
jrer vaibyirq va qnatrebhf pbzcyvpngvbaf jvgu frireny angvbaf, naq gjb bs
bhe Greevgbevrf jrer va n fgngr bs eribyhgvba ntnvafg gur Tbireazrag. N
erfgbengvba bs gur Nsevpna fynir genqr unq ahzrebhf naq cbjreshy nqibpngrf.
Haynjshy zvyvgnel rkcrqvgvbaf jrer pbhagranaprq ol znal bs bhe pvgvmraf,
naq jrer fhssrerq, va qrsvnapr bs gur rssbegf bs gur Tbireazrag, gb rfpncr
sebz bhe fuberf sbe gur checbfr bs znxvat jne hcba gur bssraqvat crbcyr bs
arvtuobevat erchoyvpf jvgu jubz jr jrer ng crnpr. Va nqqvgvba gb gurfr naq
bgure qvssvphygvrf, jr rkcrevraprq n erihyfvba va zbargnel nssnvef fbba
nsgre zl nqirag gb cbjre bs harknzcyrq frirevgl naq bs ehvabhf pbafrdhraprf
gb nyy gur terng vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel. Jura jr gnxr n ergebfcrpg bs
jung jnf gura bhe pbaqvgvba naq pbagenfg guvf jvgu vgf zngrevny cebfcrevgl
ng gur gvzr bs gur yngr Cerfvqragvny ryrpgvba, jr unir nohaqnag ernfba gb
erghea bhe tengrshy gunaxf gb gung zrepvshy Cebivqrapr juvpu unf arire
sbefnxra hf nf n angvba va nyy bhe cnfg gevnyf.

Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Terng Oevgnva ner bs gur zbfg sevraqyl punenpgre. Fvapr
gur pbzzraprzrag bs zl Nqzvavfgengvba gur gjb qnatrebhf dhrfgvbaf nevfvat
sebz gur Pynlgba naq Ohyjre gerngl naq sebz gur evtug bs frnepu pynvzrq ol
gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag unir orra nzvpnoyl naq ubabenoyl nqwhfgrq.

Gur qvfpbeqnag pbafgehpgvbaf bs gur Pynlgba naq Ohyjre gerngl orgjrra gur
gjb Tbireazragf, juvpu ng qvssrerag crevbqf bs gur qvfphffvba ober n
guerngravat nfcrpg, unir erfhygrq va n svany frggyrzrag ragveryl
fngvfsnpgbel gb guvf Tbireazrag. Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V vasbezrq
Pbaterff gung gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag unq abg gura "pbzcyrgrq gerngl
neenatrzragf jvgu gur Erchoyvpf bs Ubaqhenf naq Avpnenthn va chefhnapr bs
gur haqrefgnaqvat orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf. Vg vf, arireguryrff,
pbasvqragyl rkcrpgrq gung guvf tbbq jbex jvyy rer ybat or nppbzcyvfurq."
Guvf pbasvqrag rkcrpgngvba unf fvapr orra shysvyyrq. Ure Oevgnaavp Znwrfgl
pbapyhqrq n gerngl jvgu Ubaqhenf ba gur 28gu Abirzore, 1859, naq jvgu
Avpnenthn ba gur 28gu Nhthfg, 1860, eryvadhvfuvat gur Zbfdhvgb
cebgrpgbengr. Orfvqrf, ol gur sbezre gur Onl Vfynaqf ner erpbtavmrq nf n
cneg bs gur Erchoyvp bs Ubaqhenf. Vg znl or bofreirq gung gur fgvchyngvbaf
bs gurfr gerngvrf pbasbez va rirel vzcbegnag cnegvphyne gb gur nzraqzragf
nqbcgrq ol gur Frangr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb gur gerngl pbapyhqrq ng
Ybaqba ba gur 17gu Bpgbore, 1856, orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf. Vg jvyy or
erpbyyrpgrq gung guvf gerngl jnf erwrpgrq ol gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag orpnhfr
bs vgf bowrpgvba gb gur whfg naq vzcbegnag nzraqzrag bs gur Frangr gb gur
negvpyr eryngvat gb Ehngna naq gur bgure vfynaqf va gur Onl bs Ubaqhenf.

Vg zhfg or n fbhepr bs fvaprer fngvfsnpgvba gb nyy pynffrf bs bhe
sryybj-pvgvmraf, naq rfcrpvnyyl gb gubfr ratntrq va sbervta pbzzrepr, gung
gur pynvz ba gur cneg bs Terng Oevgnva sbepvoyl gb ivfvg naq frnepu
Nzrevpna zrepunag irffryf ba gur uvtu frnf va gvzr bs crnpr unf orra
nonaqbarq. Guvf jnf ol sne gur zbfg qnatrebhf dhrfgvba gb gur crnpr bs gur
gjb pbhagevrf juvpu unf rkvfgrq fvapr gur Jne bs 1812. Juvyfg vg erznvarq
bcra gurl zvtug ng nal zbzrag unir orra cerpvcvgngrq vagb n jne. Guvf jnf
eraqrerq znavsrfg ol gur rknfcrengrq fgngr bs choyvp srryvat guebhtubhg bhe
ragver pbhagel cebqhprq ol gur sbepvoyr frnepu bs Nzrevpna zrepunag irffryf
ol Oevgvfu pehvfref ba gur pbnfg bs Phon va gur fcevat bs 1858. Gur
Nzrevpna crbcyr unvyrq jvgu trareny nppynvz gur beqref bs gur Frpergnel bs
gur Anil gb bhe aniny sbepr va gur Thys bs Zrkvpb "gb cebgrpg nyy irffryf
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ba gur uvtu frnf sebz frnepu be qrgragvba ol gur
irffryf bs jne bs nal bgure angvba." Gurfr beqref zvtug unir cebqhprq na
vzzrqvngr pbyyvfvba orgjrra gur aniny sbeprf bs gur gjb pbhagevrf. Guvf jnf
zbfg sbeghangryl ceriragrq ol na nccrny gb gur whfgvpr bs Terng Oevgnva naq
gb gur ynj bs angvbaf nf rkcbhaqrq ol ure bja zbfg rzvarag whevfgf.

Gur bayl dhrfgvba bs nal vzcbegnapr juvpu fgvyy erznvaf bcra vf gur
qvfchgrq gvgyr orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf gb gur vfynaq bs Fna Whna, va
gur ivpvavgl bs Jnfuvatgba Greevgbel. Nf guvf dhrfgvba vf fgvyy haqre
artbgvngvba, vg vf abg qrrzrq nqivfnoyr ng gur cerfrag zbzrag gb znxr nal
bgure nyyhfvba gb gur fhowrpg.

Gur erprag ivfvg bs gur Cevapr bs Jnyrf, va n cevingr punenpgre, gb gur
crbcyr bs guvf pbhagel unf cebirq gb or n zbfg nhfcvpvbhf rirag. Va vgf
pbafrdhraprf vg pna abg snvy gb vapernfr gur xvaqerq naq xvaqyl srryvatf
juvpu V gehfg znl rire npghngr gur Tbireazrag naq crbcyr bs obgu pbhagevrf
va gurve cbyvgvpny naq fbpvny vagrepbhefr jvgu rnpu bgure.

Jvgu Senapr, bhe napvrag naq cbjreshy nyyl, bhe eryngvbaf pbagvahr gb or bs
gur zbfg sevraqyl punenpgre. N qrpvfvba unf erpragyl orra znqr ol n Serapu
whqvpvny gevohany, jvgu gur nccebongvba bs gur Vzcrevny Tbireazrag, juvpu
pna abg snvy gb sbfgre gur fragvzragf bs zhghny ertneq gung unir fb ybat
rkvfgrq orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf. Haqre gur Serapu ynj ab crefba pna freir
va gur nezvrf bs Senapr hayrff ur or n Serapu pvgvmra. Gur ynj bs Senapr
erpbtavmvat gur angheny evtug bs rkcngevngvba, vg sbyybjf nf n arprffnel
pbafrdhrapr gung n Serapuzna ol gur snpg bs univat orpbzr n pvgvmra bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf unf punatrq uvf nyyrtvnapr naq unf ybfg uvf angvir punenpgre.
Ur pna abg gurersber or pbzcryyrq gb freir va gur Serapu nezvrf va pnfr ur
fubhyq erghea gb uvf angvir pbhagel. Gurfr cevapvcyrf jrer naabhaprq va
1852 ol gur Serapu zvavfgre bs jne naq va gjb yngr pnfrf unir orra
pbasvezrq ol gur Serapu whqvpvnel. Va gurfr, gjb angvirf bs Senapr unir
orra qvfpunetrq sebz gur Serapu nezl orpnhfr gurl unq orpbzr Nzrevpna
pvgvmraf. Gb rzcybl gur ynathntr bs bhe cerfrag zvavfgre gb Senapr, jub unf
eraqrerq tbbq freivpr ba guvf bppnfvba. "V qb abg guvax bhe Serapu
anghenyvmrq sryybj-pvgvmraf jvyy urernsgre rkcrevrapr zhpu naablnapr ba
guvf fhowrpg."

V iragher gb cerqvpg gung gur gvzr vf abg sne qvfgnag jura gur bgure
pbagvaragny cbjref jvyy nqbcg gur fnzr jvfr naq whfg cbyvpl juvpu unf qbar
fb zhpu ubabe gb gur rayvtugrarq Tbireazrag bs gur Rzcrebe. Va nal rirag,
bhe Tbireazrag vf obhaq gb cebgrpg gur evtugf bs bhe anghenyvmrq pvgvmraf
rireljurer gb gur fnzr rkgrag nf gubhtu gurl unq qenja gurve svefg oerngu
va guvf pbhagel. Jr pna erpbtavmr ab qvfgvapgvba orgjrra bhe angvir naq
anghenyvmrq pvgvmraf.

Orgjrra gur terng Rzcver bs Ehffvn naq gur Havgrq Fgngrf gur zhghny
sevraqfuvc naq ertneq juvpu unf fb ybat rkvfgrq fgvyy pbagvahrf gb cerinvy,
naq vs cbffvoyr gb vapernfr. Vaqrrq, bhe eryngvbaf jvgu gung Rzcver ner nyy
gung jr pbhyq qrfver. Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Fcnva ner abj bs n zber
pbzcyvpngrq, gubhtu yrff qnatrebhf, punenpgre guna gurl unir orra sbe znal
lrnef. Bhe pvgvmraf unir ybat uryq naq pbagvahr gb ubyq ahzrebhf pynvzf
ntnvafg gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag. Gurfr unq orra noyl hetrq sbe n frevrf bs
lrnef ol bhe fhpprffvir qvcybzngvp ercerfragngvirf ng Znqevq, ohg jvgubhg
bognvavat erqerff. Gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag svanyyl nterrq gb vafgvghgr n
wbvag pbzzvffvba sbe gur nqwhfgzrag bs gurfr pynvzf, naq ba gur 5gu qnl bs
Znepu, 1860, pbapyhqrq n pbairagvba sbe guvf checbfr jvgu bhe cerfrag
zvavfgre ng Znqevq.

Haqre guvf pbairagvba jung unir orra qrabzvangrq gur "Phona pynvzf,"
nzbhagvat gb $128,635.54, va juvpu zber guna 100 bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf ner
vagrerfgrq, jrer erpbtavmrq, naq gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag nterrq gb cnl
$100,000 bs guvf nzbhag "jvguva guerr zbaguf sbyybjvat gur rkpunatr bs
engvsvpngvbaf." Gur cnlzrag bs gur erznvavat $28,635.54 jnf gb njnvg gur
qrpvfvba bs gur pbzzvffvbaref sbe be ntnvafg gur Nzvfgnq pynvz; ohg va nal
rirag gur onynapr jnf gb or cnvq gb gur pynvznagf rvgure ol Fcnva be gur
Havgrq Fgngrf. Gurfr grezf, V unir rirel ernfba gb xabj, ner uvtuyl
fngvfsnpgbel gb gur ubyqref bs gur Phona pynvzf. Vaqrrq, gurl unir znqr n
sbezny bssre nhgubevmvat gur Fgngr Qrcnegzrag gb frggyr gurfr pynvzf naq gb
qrqhpg gur nzbhag bs gur Nzvfgnq pynvz sebz gur fhzf juvpu gurl ner
ragvgyrq gb erprvir sebz Fcnva. Guvf bssre, bs pbhefr, pna abg or npprcgrq.
Nyy bgure pynvzf bs pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ntnvafg Fcnva, be gur
fhowrpgf bs gur Dhrra bs Fcnva ntnvafg gur Havgrq Fgngrf, vapyhqvat gur
Nzvfgnq pynvz, jrer ol guvf pbairagvba ersreerq gb n obneq bs pbzzvffvbaref
va gur hfhny sbez. Arvgure gur inyvqvgl bs gur Nzvfgnq pynvz abe bs nal
bgure pynvz ntnvafg rvgure cnegl, jvgu gur fvatyr rkprcgvba bs gur Phona
pynvzf, jnf erpbtavmrq ol gur pbairagvba. Vaqrrq, gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag
qvq abg vafvfg gung gur inyvqvgl bs gur Nzvfgnq pynvz fubhyq or guhf
erpbtavmrq, abgjvgufgnaqvat vgf cnlzrag unq orra erpbzzraqrq gb Pbaterff ol
gjb bs zl cerqrprffbef, nf jryy nf ol zlfrys, naq na nccebcevngvba sbe gung
checbfr unq cnffrq gur Frangr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Gurl jrer pbagrag gung vg fubhyq or fhozvggrq gb gur obneq sbe rknzvangvba
naq qrpvfvba yvxr gur bgure pynvzf. Obgu Tbireazragf jrer obhaq
erfcrpgviryl gb cnl gur nzbhagf njneqrq gb gur frireny pynvznagf "ng fhpu
gvzrf naq cynprf nf znl or svkrq ol naq nppbeqvat gb gur grabe bs fnvq
njneqf."

V genafzvggrq guvf pbairagvba gb gur Frangr sbe gurve pbafgvghgvbany npgvba
ba gur 3q bs Znl, 1860, naq ba gur 27gu bs gur fhpprrqvat Whar gurl
qrgrezvarq gung gurl jbhyq "abg nqivfr naq pbafrag" gb vgf engvsvpngvba.

Gurfr cebprrqvatf cynpr bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Fcnva va na njxjneq naq
rzoneenffvat cbfvgvba. Vg vf zber guna cebonoyr gung gur svany nqwhfgzrag
bs gurfr pynvzf jvyy qribyir hcba zl fhpprffbe.

V ervgrengr gur erpbzzraqngvba pbagnvarq va zl naahny zrffntr bs Qrprzore,
1858, naq ercrngrq va gung bs Qrprzore, 1859, va snibe bs gur npdhvfvgvba
bs Phon sebz Fcnva ol snve chepunfr. V svezyl oryvrir gung fhpu na
npdhvfvgvba jbhyq pbagevohgr rffragvnyyl gb gur jryy-orvat naq cebfcrevgl
bs obgu pbhagevrf va nyy shgher gvzr, nf jryy nf cebir gur pregnva zrnaf bs
vzzrqvngryl nobyvfuvat gur Nsevpna fynir genqr guebhtubhg gur jbeyq. V
jbhyq abg ercrng guvf erpbzzraqngvba hcba gur cerfrag bppnfvba vs V
oryvrirq gung gur genafsre bs Phon gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf hcba pbaqvgvbaf
uvtuyl snibenoyr gb Fcnva pbhyq whfgyl gneavfu gur angvbany ubabe bs gur
cebhq naq napvrag Fcnavfu zbanepul. Fheryl ab crefba rire nggevohgrq gb gur
svefg Ancbyrba n qvfertneq bs gur angvbany ubabe bs Senapr sbe genafsreevat
Ybhvfvnan gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf sbe n snve rdhvinyrag, obgu va zbarl naq
pbzzrepvny nqinagntrf.

Jvgu gur Rzcrebe bs Nhfgevn naq gur erznvavat pbagvaragny cbjref bs Rhebcr,
vapyhqvat gung bs gur Fhygna, bhe eryngvbaf pbagvahr gb or bs gur zbfg
sevraqyl punenpgre.

Gur sevraqyl naq crnprshy cbyvpl chefhrq ol gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf gbjneq gur Rzcver bs Puvan unf cebqhprq gur zbfg fngvfsnpgbel
erfhygf. Gur gerngl bs Gvra-gfva bs gur 18gu Whar, 1858, unf orra
snvgushyyl bofreirq ol gur Puvarfr nhgubevgvrf. Gur pbairagvba bs gur 8gu
Abirzore, 1858, fhccyrzragnel gb guvf gerngl, sbe gur nqwhfgzrag naq
fngvfsnpgvba bs gur pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf ba Puvan ersreerq gb va zl ynfg
naahny zrffntr, unf orra nyernql pneevrq vagb rssrpg fb sne nf guvf jnf
cenpgvpnoyr. Haqre guvf pbairagvba gur fhz bs 500,000 gnryf, rdhny gb nobhg
$700,000, jnf fgvchyngrq gb or cnvq va fngvfsnpgvba bs gur pynvzf bs
Nzrevpna pvgvmraf bhg bs gur bar-svsgu bs gur erprvcgf sbe gbaantr, vzcbeg,
naq rkcbeg qhgvrf ba Nzrevpna irffryf ng gur cbegf bs Pnagba, Funatunv, naq
Shpunh, naq vg jnf "nterrq gung guvf nzbhag funyy or va shyy yvdhvqngvba bs
nyy pynvzf bs Nzrevpna pvgvmraf ng gur inevbhf cbegf gb guvf qngr."
Qroragherf sbe guvf nzbhag, gb jvg, 300,000 gnryf sbe Pnagba, 100,000 sbe
Funatunv, naq 100,000 sbe Shpunh, jrer qryvirerq, nppbeqvat gb gur grezf bs
gur pbairagvba, ol gur erfcrpgvir Puvarfr pbyyrpgbef bs gur phfgbzf bs
gurfr cbegf gb gur ntrag fryrpgrq ol bhe zvavfgre gb erprvir gur fnzr.
Fvapr gung gvzr gur pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf unir orra nqwhfgrq ol gur obneq
bs pbzzvffvbaref nccbvagrq sbe gung checbfr haqre gur npg bs Znepu 3, 1859,
naq gurve njneqf, juvpu cebirq fngvfsnpgbel gb gur pynvznagf, unir orra
nccebirq ol bhe zvavfgre. Va gur nttertngr gurl nzbhag gb gur fhz bs
$498,694.78. Gur pynvznagf unir nyernql erprvirq n ynetr cebcbegvba bs gur
fhzf njneqrq gb gurz bhg bs gur shaq cebivqrq, naq vg vf pbasvqragyl
rkcrpgrq gung gur erznvaqre jvyy rer ybat or ragveryl cnvq. Nsgre gur
njneqf funyy unir orra fngvfsvrq gurer jvyy erznva n fhecyhf bs zber guna
$200,000 ng gur qvfcbfvgvba bs Pbaterff. Nf guvf jvyy, va rdhvgl, orybat gb
gur Puvarfr Tbireazrag, jbhyq abg whfgvpr erdhver vgf nccebcevngvba gb fbzr
oraribyrag bowrpg va juvpu gur Puvarfr znl or fcrpvnyyl vagrerfgrq?

Bhe zvavfgre gb Puvan, va borqvrapr gb uvf vafgehpgvbaf, unf erznvarq
cresrpgyl arhgeny va gur jne orgjrra Terng Oevgnva naq Senapr naq gur
Puvarfr Rzcver, nygubhtu, va pbawhapgvba jvgu gur Ehffvna zvavfgre, ur jnf
rire ernql naq jvyyvat, unq gur bccbeghavgl bssrerq, gb rzcybl uvf tbbq
bssvprf va erfgbevat crnpr orgjrra gur cnegvrf. Vg vf ohg na npg bs fvzcyr
whfgvpr, obgu gb bhe cerfrag zvavfgre naq uvf cerqrprffbe, gb fgngr gung
gurl unir cebirq shyyl rdhny gb gur qryvpngr, gelvat, naq erfcbafvoyr
cbfvgvbaf va juvpu gurl unir ba qvssrerag bppnfvbaf orra cynprq.

Gur engvsvpngvbaf bs gur gerngl jvgu Wncna pbapyhqrq ng Lrqqb ba gur 29gu
Whyl, 1858, jrer rkpunatrq ng Jnfuvatgba ba gur 22q Znl ynfg, naq gur
gerngl vgfrys jnf cebpynvzrq ba gur fhpprrqvat qnl. Gurer vf tbbq ernfba gb
rkcrpg gung haqre vgf cebgrpgvba naq vasyhrapr bhe genqr naq vagrepbhefr
jvgu gung qvfgnag naq vagrerfgvat crbcyr jvyy encvqyl vapernfr.

Gur engvsvpngvbaf bs gur gerngl jrer rkpunatrq jvgu hahfhny fbyrzavgl. Sbe
guvf checbfr gur Glpbba unq npperqvgrq guerr bs uvf zbfg qvfgvathvfurq
fhowrpgf nf raiblf rkgenbeqvanel naq zvavfgref cyravcbgragvnel, jub jrer
erprvirq naq gerngrq jvgu znexrq qvfgvapgvba naq xvaqarff, obgu ol gur
Tbireazrag naq crbcyr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gurer vf rirel ernfba gb
oryvrir gung gurl unir erghearq gb gurve angvir ynaq ragveryl fngvfsvrq
jvgu gurve ivfvg naq vafcverq ol gur zbfg sevraqyl srryvatf sbe bhe
pbhagel. Yrg hf neqragyl ubcr, va gur ynathntr bs gur gerngl vgfrys, gung
"gurer funyy uraprsbejneq or crecrghny crnpr naq sevraqfuvc orgjrra gur
Havgrq Fgngrf bs Nzrevpn naq Uvf Znwrfgl gur Glpbba bs Wncna naq uvf
fhpprffbef."

Jvgu gur jvfr, pbafreingvir, naq yvoreny Tbireazrag bs gur Rzcver bs Oenmvy
bhe eryngvbaf pbagvahr gb or bs gur zbfg nzvpnoyr punenpgre.

Gur rkpunatr bs gur engvsvpngvbaf bs gur pbairagvba jvgu gur Erchoyvp bs
Arj Tenanqn fvtarq ng Jnfuvatgba ba gur 10gu bs Frcgrzore, 1857, unf orra
ybat qrynlrq sebz nppvqragny pnhfrf sbe juvpu arvgure cnegl vf prafhenoyr.
Gurfr engvsvpngvbaf jrer qhyl rkpunatrq va guvf pvgl ba gur 5gu bs Abirzore
ynfg. Guhf unf n pbagebirefl orra nzvpnoyl grezvangrq juvpu unq orpbzr fb
frevbhf ng gur crevbq bs zl vanhthengvba nf gb erdhver zr, ba gur 17gu bs
Ncevy, 1857, gb qverpg bhe zvavfgre gb qrznaq uvf cnffcbegf naq erghea gb
gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Haqre guvf pbairagvba gur Tbireazrag bs Arj Tenanqn unf fcrpvnyyl
npxabjyrqtrq vgfrys gb or erfcbafvoyr gb bhe pvgvmraf "sbe qnzntrf juvpu
jrer pnhfrq ol gur evbg ng Cnanzn ba gur 15gu Ncevy, 1856." Gurfr pynvzf,
gbtrgure jvgu bgure pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf juvpu unq orra ybat hetrq va
inva, ner ersreerq sbe nqwhfgzrag gb n obneq bs pbzzvffvbaref. V fhozvg n
pbcl bs gur pbairagvba gb Pbaterff, naq erpbzzraq gur yrtvfyngvba arprffnel
gb pneel vg vagb rssrpg.

Crefrirevat rssbegf unir orra znqr sbe gur nqwhfgzrag bs gur pynvzf bs
Nzrevpna pvgvmraf ntnvafg gur Tbireazrag bs Pbfgn Evpn, naq V nz unccl gb
vasbez lbh gung gurfr unir svanyyl cerinvyrq. N pbairagvba jnf fvtarq ng
gur pvgl bs Fna Wbfr ba gur 2q Whyl ynfg, orgjrra gur zvavfgre erfvqrag bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf va Pbfgn Evpn naq gur cyravcbgragvnevrf bs gung Erchoyvp,
ersreevat gurfr pynvzf gb n obneq bs pbzzvffvbaref naq cebivqvat sbe gur
cnlzrag bs gurve njneqf. Guvf pbairagvba jvyy or fhozvggrq vzzrqvngryl gb
gur Frangr sbe gurve pbafgvghgvbany npgvba.

Gur pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf hcba gur Erchoyvp bs Avpnenthn unir abg lrg orra
cebivqrq sbe ol gerngl, nygubhtu qvyvtrag rssbegf sbe guvf checbfr unir
orra znqr ol bhe zvavfgre erfvqrag gb gung Erchoyvp. Gurfr ner fgvyy
pbagvahrq, jvgu n snve cebfcrpg bs fhpprff.

Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu Zrkvpb erznva va n zbfg hafngvfsnpgbel pbaqvgvba. Va zl
ynfg gjb naahny zrffntrf V qvfphffrq rkgrafviryl gur fhowrpg bs gurfr
eryngvbaf, naq qb abg abj cebcbfr gb ercrng ng yratgu gur snpgf naq
nethzragf gura cerfragrq. Gurl cebirq pbapyhfviryl gung bhe pvgvmraf
erfvqvat va Zrkvpb naq bhe zrepunagf genqvat gurergb unq fhssrerq n frevrf
bs jebatf naq bhgentrf fhpu nf jr unir arire cngvragyl obear sebz nal bgure
angvba. Sbe gurfr bhe fhpprffvir zvavfgref, vaibxvat gur snvgu bs gerngvrf,
unq va gur anzr bs gurve pbhagel crefvfgragyl qrznaqrq erqerff naq
vaqrzavsvpngvba, ohg jvgubhg gur fyvtugrfg rssrpg. Vaqrrq, fb pbasvqrag unq
gur Zrkvpna nhgubevgvrf orpbzr bs bhe cngvrag raqhenapr gung gurl
havirefnyyl oryvrirq gurl zvtug pbzzvg gurfr bhgentrf hcba Nzrevpna
pvgvmraf jvgu nofbyhgr vzchavgl. Guhf jebgr bhe zvavfgre va 1856, naq
rkcerffrq gur bcvavba gung "abguvat ohg n znavsrfgngvba bs gur cbjre bs gur
Tbireazrag naq bs vgf checbfr gb chavfu gurfr jebatf jvyy ninvy."

Nsgrejneqf, va 1857, pnzr gur nqbcgvba bs n arj pbafgvghgvba sbe Zrkvpb,
gur ryrpgvba bs n Cerfvqrag naq Pbaterff haqre vgf cebivfvbaf, naq gur
vanhthengvba bs gur Cerfvqrag. Jvguva bar fubeg zbagu, ubjrire, guvf
Cerfvqrag jnf rkcryyrq sebz gur pncvgny ol n eroryyvba va gur nezl, naq gur
fhcerzr cbjre bs gur Erchoyvp jnf nffvtarq gb Trareny Mhybntn. Guvf hfhecre
jnf va uvf ghea fbba pbzcryyrq gb ergver naq tvir cynpr gb Trareny
Zvenzba.

Haqre gur pbafgvghgvba juvpu unq guhf orra nqbcgrq Frabe Whnerm, nf puvrs
whfgvpr bs gur fhcerzr pbheg, orpnzr gur ynjshy Cerfvqrag bs gur Erchoyvp,
naq vg jnf sbe gur znvagranapr bs gur pbafgvghgvba naq uvf nhgubevgl
qrevirq sebz vg gung gur pvivy jne pbzzraprq naq fgvyy pbagvahrf gb or
cebfrphgrq.

Guebhtubhg gur lrne 1858 gur pbafgvghgvbany cnegl terj fgebatre naq
fgebatre. Va gur cerivbhf uvfgbel bs Zrkvpb n fhpprffshy zvyvgnel
eribyhgvba ng gur pncvgny unq nyzbfg havirefnyyl orra gur fvtany sbe
fhozvffvba guebhtubhg gur Erchoyvp. Abg fb ba gur cerfrag bppnfvba. N
znwbevgl bs gur pvgvmraf crefvfgragyl fhfgnvarq gur pbafgvghgvbany
Tbireazrag. Jura guvf jnf erpbtavmrq, va Ncevy, 1859, ol gur Tbireazrag bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, vgf nhgubevgl rkgraqrq bire n ynetr znwbevgl bs gur
Zrkvpna Fgngrf naq crbcyr, vapyhqvat Iren Pehm naq nyy gur bgure vzcbegnag
frncbegf bs gur Erchoyvp. Sebz gung crevbq bhe pbzzrepr jvgu Zrkvpb ortna
gb erivir, naq gur pbafgvghgvbany Tbireazrag unf nssbeqrq vg nyy gur
cebgrpgvba va vgf cbjre.

Zrnajuvyr gur Tbireazrag bs Zvenzba fgvyy uryq fjnl ng gur pncvgny naq bire
gur fheebhaqvat pbhagel, naq pbagvahrq vgf bhgentrf ntnvafg gur srj
Nzrevpna pvgvmraf jub fgvyy unq gur pbhentr gb erznva jvguva vgf cbjre. Gb
pnc gur pyvznk, nsgre gur onggyr bs Gnphonln, va Ncevy, 1859, Trareny
Znedhrm beqrerq guerr pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gjb bs gurz
culfvpvnaf, gb or frvmrq va gur ubfcvgny ng gung cynpr, gnxra bhg naq fubg,
jvgubhg pevzr naq jvgubhg gevny. Guvf jnf qbar, abgjvgufgnaqvat bhe
hasbeghangr pbhagelzra jrer ng gur zbzrag ratntrq va gur ubyl pnhfr bs
nssbeqvat eryvrs gb gur fbyqvref bs obgu cnegvrf jub unq orra jbhaqrq va
gur onggyr, jvgubhg znxvat nal qvfgvapgvba orgjrra gurz.

Gur gvzr unq neevirq, va zl bcvavba, jura guvf Tbireazrag jnf obhaq gb
rkreg vgf cbjre gb niratr naq erqerff gur jebatf bs bhe pvgvmraf naq gb
nssbeq gurz cebgrpgvba va Zrkvpb. Gur vagrecbfvat bofgnpyr jnf gung gur
cbegvba bs gur pbhagel haqre gur fjnl bs Zvenzba pbhyq abg or ernpurq
jvgubhg cnffvat bire greevgbel haqre gur whevfqvpgvba bs gur pbafgvghgvbany
Tbireazrag. Haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf V qrrzrq vg zl qhgl gb erpbzzraq gb
Pbaterff va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr gur rzcyblzrag bs n fhssvpvrag zvyvgnel
sbepr gb crargengr vagb gur vagrevbe, jurer gur Tbireazrag bs Zvenzba jnf
gb or sbhaq, jvgu be, vs arrq or, jvgubhg gur pbafrag bs gur Whnerm
Tbireazrag, gubhtu vg jnf abg qbhogrq gung guvf pbafrag pbhyq or bognvarq.
Arire unir V unq n pyrnere pbaivpgvba ba nal fhowrpg guna bs gur whfgvpr nf
jryy nf jvfqbz bs fhpu n cbyvpl. Ab bgure nygreangvir jnf yrsg rkprcg gur
ragver nonaqbazrag bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf jub unq tbar gb Zrkvpb haqre gur
snvgu bs gerngvrf gb gur flfgrzngvp vawhfgvpr, pehrygl, naq bccerffvba bs
Zvenzba'f Tbireazrag. Orfvqrf, vg vf nyzbfg pregnva gung gur fvzcyr
nhgubevgl gb rzcybl guvf sbepr jbhyq bs vgfrys unir nppbzcyvfurq nyy bhe
bowrpgf jvgubhg fgevxvat n fvatyr oybj. Gur pbafgvghgvbany Tbireazrag jbhyq
gura rer guvf unir orra rfgnoyvfurq ng gur Pvgl bs Zrkvpb, naq jbhyq unir
orra ernql naq jvyyvat gb gur rkgrag bs vgf novyvgl gb qb hf whfgvpr.

Va nqqvgvba--naq V qrrz guvf n zbfg vzcbegnag pbafvqrengvba--Rhebcrna
Tbireazragf jbhyq unir orra qrcevirq bs nyy cergrkg gb vagresrer va gur
greevgbevny naq qbzrfgvp pbapreaf bs Zrkvpb. Jr fubhyq guhf unir orra
eryvrirq sebz gur boyvtngvba bs erfvfgvat, rira ol sbepr fubhyq guvf orpbzr
arprffnel, nal nggrzcg ol gurfr Tbireazragf gb qrcevir bhe arvtuobevat
Erchoyvp bs cbegvbaf bs ure greevgbel--n qhgl sebz juvpu jr pbhyq abg
fuevax jvgubhg nonaqbavat gur genqvgvbany naq rfgnoyvfurq cbyvpl bs gur
Nzrevpna crbcyr. V nz unccl gb bofreir gung, svezyl erylvat hcba gur
whfgvpr naq tbbq snvgu bs gurfr Tbireazragf, gurer vf ab cerfrag qnatre
gung fhpu n pbagvatrapl jvyy unccra.

Univat qvfpbirerq gung zl erpbzzraqngvbaf jbhyq abg or fhfgnvarq ol
Pbaterff, gur arkg nygreangvir jnf gb nppbzcyvfu va fbzr qrterr, vs
cbffvoyr, gur fnzr bowrpgf ol gerngl fgvchyngvbaf jvgu gur pbafgvghgvbany
Tbireazrag. Fhpu gerngvrf jrer nppbeqvatyl pbapyhqrq ol bhe yngr noyr naq
rkpryyrag zvavfgre gb Zrkvpb, naq ba gur 4gu bs Wnahnel ynfg jrer fhozvggrq
gb gur Frangr sbe engvsvpngvba. Nf gurfr unir abg lrg erprvirq gur svany
npgvba bs gung obql, vg jbhyq or vzcebcre sbe zr gb cerfrag n qrgnvyrq
fgngrzrag bs gurve cebivfvbaf. Fgvyy, V znl or crezvggrq gb rkcerff gur
bcvavba va nqinapr gung gurl ner pnyphyngrq gb cebzbgr gur ntevphygheny,
znahsnpghevat, naq pbzzrepvny vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel naq gb frpher bhe
whfg vasyhrapr jvgu na nqwbvavat Erchoyvp nf gb jubfr sbegharf naq sngr jr
pna arire srry vaqvssrerag, juvyfg ng gur fnzr gvzr gurl cebivqr sbe gur
cnlzrag bs n pbafvqrenoyr nzbhag gbjneq gur fngvfsnpgvba bs gur pynvzf bs
bhe vawherq sryybj-pvgvmraf.

Ng gur crevbq bs zl vanhthengvba V jnf pbasebagrq va Xnafnf ol n
eribyhgvbanel tbireazrag rkvfgvat haqre jung vf pnyyrq gur "Gbcrxn
pbafgvghgvba." Vgf nibjrq bowrpg jnf gb fhoqhr gur Greevgbevny tbireazrag
ol sbepr naq gb vanhthengr jung jnf pnyyrq gur "Gbcrxn tbireazrag" va vgf
fgrnq. Gb nppbzcyvfu guvf bowrpg na rkgrafvir zvyvgnel betnavmngvba jnf
sbezrq, naq vgf pbzznaq vagehfgrq gb gur zbfg ivbyrag eribyhgvbanel
yrnqref. Haqre gurfr pvephzfgnaprf vg orpnzr zl vzcrengvir qhgl gb rkreg
gur jubyr pbafgvghgvbany cbjre bs gur Rkrphgvir gb cerirag gur synzrf bs
pvivy jne sebz ntnva entvat va Xnafnf, juvpu va gur rkpvgrq fgngr bs gur
choyvp zvaq, obgu Abegu naq Fbhgu, zvtug unir rkgraqrq vagb gur arvtuobevat
Fgngrf. Gur ubfgvyr cnegvrf va Xnafnf unq orra vasynzrq ntnvafg rnpu bgure
ol rzvffnevrf obgu sebz gur Abegu naq gur Fbhgu gb n qrterr bs znyvtavgl
jvgubhg cnenyyry va bhe uvfgbel. Gb cerirag npghny pbyyvfvba naq gb nffvfg
gur pvivy zntvfgengrf va rasbepvat gur ynjf, n fgebat qrgnpuzrag bs gur
Nezl jnf fgngvbarq va gur Greevgbel, ernql gb nvq gur znefuny naq uvf
qrchgvrf jura ynjshyyl pnyyrq hcba nf n cbffr pbzvgnghf va gur rkrphgvba bs
pvivy naq pevzvany cebprff. Fgvyy, gur gebhoyrf va Xnafnf pbhyq abg unir
orra creznaragyl frggyrq jvgubhg na ryrpgvba ol gur crbcyr.

Gur onyybg obk vf gur fherfg neovgre bs qvfchgrf nzbat serrzra. Haqre guvf
pbaivpgvba rirel cebcre rssbeg jnf rzcyblrq gb vaqhpr gur ubfgvyr cnegvrf
gb ibgr ng gur ryrpgvba bs qryrtngrf gb senzr n Fgngr pbafgvghgvba, naq
nsgrejneqf ng gur ryrpgvba gb qrpvqr jurgure Xnafnf fubhyq or n fynir be
serr Fgngr.

Gur vafhetrag cnegl ershfrq gb ibgr ng rvgure, yrfg guvf zvtug or
pbafvqrerq n erpbtavgvba ba gurve cneg bs gur Greevgbevny tbireazrag
rfgnoyvfurq ol Pbaterff. N orggre fcvevg, ubjrire, frrzrq fbba nsgre gb
cerinvy, naq gur gjb cnegvrf zrg snpr gb snpr ng gur guveq ryrpgvba, uryq
ba gur svefg Zbaqnl bs Wnahnel, 1858, sbe zrzoref bs gur yrtvfyngher naq
Fgngr bssvpref haqre gur Yrpbzcgba pbafgvghgvba. Gur erfhyg jnf gur gevhzcu
bs gur nagvfynirel cnegl ng gur cbyyf. Guvf qrpvfvba bs gur onyybg obk
cebirq pyrneyl gung guvf cnegl jrer va gur znwbevgl, naq erzbirq gur qnatre
bs pvivy jne. Sebz gung gvzr jr unir urneq yvggyr be abguvat bs gur Gbcrxn
tbireazrag, naq nyy frevbhf qnatre bs eribyhgvbanel gebhoyrf va Xnafnf jnf
gura ng na raq.

Gur Yrpbzcgba pbafgvghgvba, juvpu unq orra guhf erpbtavmrq ng guvf Fgngr
ryrpgvba ol gur ibgrf bs obgu cbyvgvpny cnegvrf va Xnafnf, jnf genafzvggrq
gb zr jvgu gur erdhrfg gung V fubhyq cerfrag vg gb Pbaterff. Guvf V pbhyq
abg unir ershfrq gb qb jvgubhg ivbyngvat zl pyrnerfg naq fgebatrfg
pbaivpgvbaf bs qhgl. Gur pbafgvghgvba naq nyy gur cebprrqvatf juvpu
cerprqrq naq sbyybjrq vgf sbezngvba jrer snve naq erthyne ba gurve snpr. V
gura oryvrirq, naq rkcrevrapr unf cebirq, gung gur vagrerfgf bs gur crbcyr
bs Xnafnf jbhyq unir orra orfg pbafhygrq ol vgf nqzvffvba nf n Fgngr vagb
gur Havba, rfcrpvnyyl nf gur znwbevgl jvguva n oevrs crevbq pbhyq unir
nzraqrq gur pbafgvghgvba nppbeqvat gb gurve jvyy naq cyrnfher. Vs senhq
rkvfgrq va nyy be nal bs gurfr cebprrqvatf, vg jnf abg sbe gur Cerfvqrag
ohg sbe Pbaterff gb vairfgvtngr naq qrgrezvar gur dhrfgvba bs senhq naq
jung bhtug gb or vgf pbafrdhraprf. Vs ng gur svefg gjb ryrpgvbaf gur
znwbevgl ershfrq gb ibgr, vg pna abg or cergraqrq gung guvf ershfny gb
rkrepvfr gur ryrpgvir senapuvfr pbhyq vainyvqngr na ryrpgvba snveyl uryq
haqre ynjshy nhgubevgl, rira vs gurl unq abg fhofrdhragyl ibgrq ng gur
guveq ryrpgvba. Vg vf gehr gung gur jubyr pbafgvghgvba unq abg orra
fhozvggrq gb gur crbcyr, nf V nyjnlf qrfverq; ohg gur cerprqragf ner
ahzrebhf bs gur nqzvffvba bs Fgngrf vagb gur Havba jvgubhg fhpu fhozvffvba.
Vg jbhyq abg pbzcbeg jvgu zl cerfrag checbfr gb erivrj gur cebprrqvatf bs
Pbaterff hcba gur Yrpbzcgba pbafgvghgvba. Vg vf fhssvpvrag gb bofreir gung
gurve svany npgvba unf erzbirq gur ynfg irfgvtr bs frevbhf eribyhgvbanel
gebhoyrf. Gur qrfcrengr unaq erpragyl nffrzoyrq haqre n abgbevbhf bhgynj va
gur fbhgurea cbegvba bs gur Greevgbel gb erfvfg gur rkrphgvba bs gur ynjf
naq gb cyhaqre crnprshy pvgvmraf jvyy, V qbhog abg or fcrrqvyl fhoqhrq naq
oebhtug gb whfgvpr.

Unq V gerngrq gur Yrpbzcgba pbafgvghgvba nf n ahyyvgl naq ershfrq gb
genafzvg vg gb Pbaterff, vg vf abg qvssvphyg gb vzntvar, juvyfg erpnyyvat
gur cbfvgvba bs gur pbhagel ng gung zbzrag, jung jbhyq unir orra gur
qvfnfgebhf pbafrdhraprf, obgu va naq bhg bs gur Greevgbel, sebz fhpu n
qreryvpgvba bs qhgl ba gur cneg bs gur Rkrphgvir.

Crnpr unf nyfb orra erfgberq jvguva gur Greevgbel bs Hgnu, juvpu ng gur
pbzzraprzrag bs zl Nqzvavfgengvba jnf va n fgngr bs bcra eroryyvba. Guvf
jnf gur zber qnatrebhf, nf gur crbcyr, navzngrq ol n snangvpny fcvevg naq
vagerapurq jvguva gurve qvfgnag zbhagnva snfgarffrf, zvtug unir znqr n ybat
naq sbezvqnoyr erfvfgnapr. Pbfg jung vg zvtug, vg jnf arprffnel gb oevat
gurz vagb fhowrpgvba gb gur Pbafgvghgvba naq gur ynjf. Fbhaq cbyvpl,
gurersber, nf jryy nf uhznavgl, erdhverq gung guvf bowrpg fubhyq vs
cbffvoyr or nppbzcyvfurq jvgubhg gur rsshfvba bs oybbq. Guvf pbhyq bayl or
rssrpgrq ol fraqvat n zvyvgnel sbepr vagb gur Greevgbel fhssvpvragyl fgebat
gb pbaivapr gur crbcyr gung erfvfgnapr jbhyq or ubcryrff, naq ng gur fnzr
gvzr gb bssre gurz n cneqba sbe cnfg bssrafrf ba pbaqvgvba bs vzzrqvngr
fhozvffvba gb gur Tbireazrag. Guvf cbyvpl jnf chefhrq jvgu rzvarag fhpprff,
naq gur bayl pnhfr sbe erterg vf gur urnil rkcraqvgher erdhverq gb znepu n
ynetr qrgnpuzrag bs gur Nezl gb gung erzbgr ertvba naq gb sheavfu vg
fhofvfgrapr.

Hgnu vf abj pbzcnengviryl crnprshy naq dhvrg, naq gur zvyvgnel sbepr unf
orra jvguqenja, rkprcg gung cbegvba bs vg arprffnel gb xrrc gur Vaqvnaf va
purpx naq gb cebgrpg gur rzvtenag genvaf ba gurve jnl gb bhe Cnpvsvp
cbffrffvbaf.

Va zl svefg naahny zrffntr V cebzvfrq gb rzcybl zl orfg rkregvbaf va
pbbcrengvba jvgu Pbaterff gb erqhpr gur rkcraqvgherf bs gur Tbireazrag
jvguva gur yvzvgf bs n jvfr naq whqvpvbhf rpbabzl. Na biresybjvat Gernfhel
unq cebqhprq unovgf bs cebqvtnyvgl naq rkgenintnapr juvpu pbhyq bayl or
tenqhnyyl pbeerpgrq. Gur jbex erdhverq obgu gvzr naq cngvrapr. V nccyvrq
zlfrys qvyvtragyl gb guvf gnfx sebz gur ortvaavat naq jnf nvqrq ol gur noyr
naq raretrgvp rssbegf bs gur urnqf bs gur qvssrerag Rkrphgvir Qrcnegzragf.
Gur erfhyg bs bhe ynobef va guvf tbbq pnhfr qvq abg nccrne va gur fhz gbgny
bs bhe rkcraqvgherf sbe gur svefg gjb lrnef, znvayl va pbafrdhrapr bs gur
rkgenbeqvanel rkcraqvgher arprffnevyl vapheerq va gur Hgnu rkcrqvgvba naq
gur irel ynetr nzbhag bs gur pbagvatrag rkcrafrf bs Pbaterff qhevat guvf
crevbq. Gurfr terngyl rkprrqrq gur cnl naq zvyrntr bs gur zrzoref. Sbe gur
lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1858, juvyfg gur cnl naq zvyrntr nzbhagrq gb
$1,490,214, gur pbagvatrag rkcrafrf ebfr gb $2,093,309.79; naq sbe gur lrne
raqvat Whar 30, 1859, juvyfg gur cnl naq zvyrntr nzbhagrq gb $859,093.66,
gur pbagvatrag rkcrafrf nzbhagrq gb $1,431,565.78. V nz unccl, ubjrire, gb
or noyr gb vasbez lbh gung qhevat gur ynfg svfpny lrne, raqvat Whar 30,
1860, gur gbgny rkcraqvgherf bs gur Tbireazrag va nyy vgf
oenapurf--yrtvfyngvir, rkrphgvir, naq whqvpvny--rkpyhfvir bs gur choyvp
qrog, jrer erqhprq gb gur fhz bs $55,402,465.46. Guvf pbapyhfviryl nccrnef
sebz gur obbxf bs gur Gernfhel. Va gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1858, gur gbgny
rkcraqvgher, rkpyhfvir bs gur choyvp qrog, nzbhagrq gb $71,901,129.77, naq
gung sbe gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1859, gb $66,346,226.13. Juvyfg gur obbxf
bs gur Gernfhel fubj na npghny rkcraqvgher bs $59,848,474.72 sbe gur lrne
raqvat Whar 30, 1860, vapyhqvat $1,040,667.71 sbe gur pbagvatrag rkcrafrf
bs Pbaterff, gurer zhfg or qrqhpgrq sebz guvf nzbhag gur fhz bs
$4,296,009.26, jvgu gur vagrerfg hcba vg bs $150,000, nccebcevngrq ol gur
npg bs Sroehnel 15, 1860, "sbe gur checbfr bs fhccylvat gur qrsvpvrapl va
gur erirahrf naq qrsenlvat gur rkcrafrf bs gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag sbe
gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1859." Guvf fhz gurersber whfgyl punetrnoyr gb gur
lrne 1859, zhfg or qrqhpgrq sebz gur fhz bs $59,848,474.72 va beqre gb
nfpregnva gur rkcraqvgher sbe gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1860, juvpu yrnirf n
onynapr sbe gur rkcraqvgherf bs gung lrne bs $55,402,465.46. Gur vagrerfg
ba gur choyvp qrog, vapyhqvat Gernfhel abgrf, sbe gur fnzr svfpny lrne,
raqvat Whar 30, 1860, nzbhagrq gb $3,177,314.62, juvpu, nqqrq gb gur nobir
fhz bs $55,402,465.46, znxrf gur nttertngr bs $58,579,780.08.

Vg bhtug va whfgvpr gb or bofreirq gung frireny bs gur rfgvzngrf sebz gur
Qrcnegzragf sbe gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1860, jrer erqhprq ol Pbaterff
orybj jung jnf naq fgvyy vf qrrzrq pbzcngvoyr jvgu gur choyvp vagrerfg.
Nyybjvat n yvoreny znetva bs $2,500,000 sbe guvf erqhpgvba naq sbe bgure
pnhfrf, vg znl or fnsryl nffregrq gung gur fhz bs $61,000,000, be, ng gur
zbfg, $62,000,000, vf nzcyl fhssvpvrag gb nqzvavfgre gur Tbireazrag naq gb
cnl gur vagrerfg ba gur choyvp qrog, hayrff pbagvatrag riragf fubhyq
urernsgre eraqre rkgenbeqvanel rkcraqvgherf arprffnel.

Guvf erfhyg unf orra nggnvarq va n pbafvqrenoyr qrterr ol gur pner
rkrepvfrq ol gur nccebcevngr Qrcnegzragf va ragrevat vagb choyvp pbagenpgf.
V unir zlfrys arire vagresrerq jvgu gur njneq bs nal fhpu pbagenpg, rkprcg
va n fvatyr pnfr, jvgu gur Pbybavmngvba Fbpvrgl, qrrzvat vg nqivfnoyr gb
pnfg gur jubyr erfcbafvovyvgl va rnpu pnfr ba gur cebcre urnq bs gur
Qrcnegzrag, jvgu gur trareny vafgehpgvba gung gurfr pbagenpgf fubhyq nyjnlf
or tvira gb gur ybjrfg naq orfg ovqqre. Vg unf rire orra zl bcvavba gung
choyvp pbagenpgf ner abg n yrtvgvzngr fbhepr bs cngebantr gb or pbasreerq
hcba crefbany be cbyvgvpny snibevgrf, ohg gung va nyy fhpu pnfrf n choyvp
bssvpre vf obhaq gb npg sbe gur Tbireazrag nf n cehqrag vaqvivqhny jbhyq
npg sbe uvzfrys.

Vg vf jvgu terng fngvfsnpgvba V pbzzhavpngr gur snpg gung fvapr gur qngr bs
zl ynfg naahny zrffntr abg n fvatyr fynir unf orra vzcbegrq vagb gur Havgrq
Fgngrf va ivbyngvba bs gur ynjf cebuvovgvat gur Nsevpna fynir genqr. Guvf
fgngrzrag vf ebhaqrq hcba n gubebhtu rknzvangvba naq vairfgvtngvba bs gur
fhowrpg. Vaqrrq, gur fcvevg juvpu cerinvyrq fbzr gvzr fvapr nzbat n cbegvba
bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf va snibe bs guvf genqr frrzf gb unir ragveryl
fhofvqrq.

V nyfb pbatenghyngr lbh hcba gur choyvp fragvzrag juvpu abj rkvfgf ntnvafg
gur pevzr bs frggvat ba sbbg zvyvgnel rkcrqvgvbaf jvguva gur yvzvgf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf gb cebprrq sebz gurapr naq znxr jne hcba gur crbcyr bs
habssraqvat Fgngrf jvgu jubz jr ner ng crnpr. Va guvf erfcrpg n unccl
punatr unf orra rssrpgrq fvapr gur pbzzraprzrag bs zl Nqzvavfgengvba. Vg
fheryl bhtug gb or gur cenlre bs rirel Puevfgvna naq cngevbg gung fhpu
rkcrqvgvbaf znl arire ntnva erprvir pbhagranapr va bhe pbhagel be qrcneg
sebz bhe fuberf.

Vg jbhyq or n hfryrff ercrgvgvba gb qb zber guna ersre jvgu rnearfg
pbzzraqngvba gb zl sbezre erpbzzraqngvbaf va snibe bs gur Cnpvsvp envyebnq;
bs gur tenag bs cbjre gb gur Cerfvqrag gb rzcybl gur aniny sbepr va gur
ivpvavgl sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs gur yvirf naq cebcregl bs bhe
sryybj-pvgvmraf cnffvat va genafvg bire gur qvssrerag Prageny Nzrevpna
ebhgrf ntnvafg fhqqra naq ynjyrff bhgoernxf naq qrcerqngvbaf, naq nyfb gb
cebgrpg Nzrevpna zrepunag irffryf, gurve perjf naq pnetbrf, ntnvafg ivbyrag
naq haynjshy frvmher naq pbasvfpngvba va gur cbegf bs Zrkvpb naq gur Fbhgu
Nzrevpna Erchoyvpf jura gurfr znl or va n qvfgheorq naq eribyhgvbanel
pbaqvgvba. Vg vf zl frggyrq pbaivpgvba gung jvgubhg fhpu n cbjre jr qb abg
nssbeq gung cebgrpgvba gb gubfr ratntrq va gur pbzzrepr bs gur pbhagel
juvpu gurl unir n evtug gb qrznaq.

V ntnva erpbzzraq gb Pbaterff gur cnffntr bs n ynj, va chefhnapr bs gur
cebivfvbaf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba, nccbvagvat n qnl pregnva cerivbhf gb gur
4gu Znepu va rnpu lrne bs na bqq ahzore sbe gur ryrpgvba bs Ercerfragngvirf
guebhtubhg nyy gur Fgngrf. N fvzvyne cbjre unf nyernql orra rkrepvfrq, jvgu
trareny nccebongvba, va gur nccbvagzrag bs gur fnzr qnl guebhtubhg gur
Havba sbe ubyqvat gur ryrpgvba bs ryrpgbef sbe Cerfvqrag naq Ivpr-Cerfvqrag
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Zl nggragvba jnf rnearfgyl qverpgrq gb guvf fhowrpg
sebz gur snpg gung gur Guvegl-svsgu Pbaterff grezvangrq ba gur 3q Znepu,
1859, jvgubhg znxvat gur arprffnel nccebcevngvba sbe gur freivpr bs gur
Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag. V jnf gura sbeprq gb pbafvqre gur orfg erzrql sbe
guvf bzvffvba, naq na vzzrqvngr pnyy bs gur cerfrag Pbaterff jnf gur
angheny erfbeg. Hcba vadhvel, ubjrire, V nfpregnvarq gung svsgrra bhg bs
gur guvegl-guerr Fgngrf pbzcbfvat gur Pbasrqrenpl jrer jvgubhg
Ercerfragngvirf, naq gung pbafrdhragyl gurfr svsgrra Fgngrf jbhyq or
qvfsenapuvfrq ol fhpu n pnyy. Gurfr svsgrra Fgngrf jvyy or va gur fnzr
pbaqvgvba ba gur 4gu Znepu arkg. Gra bs gurz pna abg ryrpg Ercerfragngvirf,
nppbeqvat gb rkvfgvat Fgngr ynjf, hagvy qvssrerag crevbqf, rkgraqvat sebz
gur ortvaavat bs Nhthfg arkg hagvy gur zbaguf bs Bpgbore naq Abirzore. Va
zl ynfg zrffntr V tnir jneavat gung va n gvzr bs fhqqra naq nynezvat qnatre
gur fnyingvba bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf zvtug qrcraq hcba gur cbjre bs gur
Cerfvqrag vzzrqvngryl gb nffrzoyr n shyy Pbaterff gb zrrg gur rzretrapl.

Vg vf abj dhvgr rivqrag gung gur svanapvny arprffvgvrf bs gur Tbireazrag
jvyy erdhver n zbqvsvpngvba bs gur gnevss qhevat lbhe cerfrag frffvba sbe
gur checbfr bs vapernfvat gur erirahr. Va guvf nfcrpg, V qrfver gb
ervgrengr gur erpbzzraqngvba pbagnvarq va zl ynfg gjb naahny zrffntrf va
snibe bs vzcbfvat fcrpvsvp vafgrnq bs nq inyberz qhgvrf ba nyy vzcbegrq
negvpyrf gb juvpu gurfr pna or cebcreyl nccyvrq. Sebz ybat bofreingvba naq
rkcrevrapr V nz pbaivaprq gung fcrpvsvp qhgvrf ner arprffnel, obgu gb
cebgrpg gur erirahr naq gb frpher gb bhe znahsnpghevat vagrerfgf gung
nzbhag bs vapvqragny rapbhentrzrag juvpu hanibvqnoyl erfhygf sebz n erirahr
gnevss.

Nf na nofgenpg cebcbfvgvba vg znl or nqzvggrq gung nq inyberz qhgvrf jbhyq
va gurbel or gur zbfg whfg naq rdhny. Ohg vs gur rkcrevrapr bs guvf naq bs
nyy bgure pbzzrepvny angvbaf unf qrzbafgengrq gung fhpu qhgvrf pna abg or
nffrffrq naq pbyyrpgrq jvgubhg terng senhqf hcba gur erirahr, gura vg vf
gur cneg bs jvfqbz gb erfbeg gb fcrpvsvp qhgvrf. Vaqrrq, sebz gur irel
angher bs na nq inyberz qhgl guvf zhfg or gur erfhyg. Haqre vg gur
varivgnoyr pbafrdhrapr vf gung sbervta tbbqf jvyy or ragrerq ng yrff guna
gurve gehr inyhr. Gur Gernfhel jvyy gurersber ybfr gur qhgl ba gur
qvssrerapr orgjrra gurve erny naq svpgvgvbhf inyhr, naq gb guvf rkgrag jr
ner qrsenhqrq.

Gur grzcgngvbaf juvpu nq inyberz qhgvrf cerfrag gb n qvfubarfg vzcbegre ner
veerfvfgvoyr. Uvf bowrpg vf gb cnff uvf tbbqf guebhtu gur phfgbz-ubhfr ng
gur irel ybjrfg inyhngvba arprffnel gb fnir gurz sebz pbasvfpngvba. Va guvf
ur gbb bsgra fhpprrqf va fcvgr bs gur ivtvynapr bs gur erirahr bssvpref.
Urapr gur erfbeg gb snyfr vaibvprf, bar sbe gur chepunfre naq nabgure sbe
gur phfgbz-ubhfr, naq gb bgure rkcrqvragf gb qrsenhq gur Tbireazrag. Gur
ubarfg vzcbegre cebqhprf uvf vaibvpr gb gur pbyyrpgbe, fgngvat gur npghny
cevpr ng juvpu ur chepunfrq gur negvpyrf noebnq. Abg fb gur qvfubarfg
vzcbegre naq gur ntrag bs gur sbervta znahsnpghere. Naq urer vg znl or
bofreirq gung n irel ynetr cebcbegvba bs gur znahsnpgherf vzcbegrq sebz
noebnq ner pbafvtarq sbe fnyr gb pbzzvffvba zrepunagf, jub ner zrer ntragf
rzcyblrq ol gur znahsnpgheref. Va fhpu pnfrf ab npghny fnyr unf orra znqr
gb svk gurve inyhr. Gur sbervta znahsnpghere, vs ur or qvfubarfg, cercnerf
na vaibvpr bs gur tbbqf, abg ng gurve npghny inyhr, ohg ng gur irel ybjrfg
engr arprffnel gb rfpncr qrgrpgvba. Va guvf znaare gur qvfubarfg vzcbegre
naq gur sbervta znahsnpghere rawbl n qrpvqrq nqinagntr bire gur ubarfg
zrepunag. Gurl ner guhf ranoyrq gb haqrefryy gur snve genqre naq qevir uvz
sebz gur znexrg. Va snpg gur bcrengvba bs guvf flfgrz unf nyernql qevira
sebz gur chefhvgf bs ubabenoyr pbzzrepr znal bs gung pynff bs erthyne naq
pbafpvragvbhf zrepunagf jubfr punenpgre guebhtubhg gur jbeyq vf gur cevqr
bs bhe pbhagel.

Gur erzrql sbe gurfr rivyf vf gb or sbhaq va fcrpvsvp qhgvrf, fb sne nf
guvf znl or cenpgvpnoyr. Gurl qvfcrafr jvgu nal vadhvel ng gur phfgbz-ubhfr
vagb gur npghny pbfg be inyhr bs gur negvpyr, naq vg cnlf gur cerpvfr
nzbhag bs qhgl cerivbhfyl svkrq ol ynj. Gurl cerfrag ab grzcgngvbaf gb gur
nccenvfref bs sbervta tbbqf, jub erprvir ohg fznyy fnynevrf, naq zvtug ol
haqreinyhngvba va n srj pnfrf eraqre gurzfryirf vaqrcraqrag.

Orfvqrf, fcrpvsvp qhgvrf orfg pbasbez gb gur erdhvfvgvba va gur
Pbafgvghgvba gung "ab cersrerapr funyy or tvira ol nal erthyngvba bs
pbzzrepr be erirahr gb gur cbegf bs bar Fgngr bire gubfr bs nabgure." Haqre
bhe nq inyberz flfgrz fhpu cersreraprf ner gb fbzr rkgrag varivgnoyr, naq
pbzcynvagf unir bsgra orra znqr gung gur fcvevg bs guvf cebivfvba unf orra
ivbyngrq ol n ybjre nccenvfrzrag bs gur fnzr negvpyrf ng bar cbeg guna ng
nabgure.

Na vzcerffvba fgenatryl rabhtu cerinvyf gb fbzr rkgrag gung fcrpvsvp qhgvrf
ner arprffnevyl cebgrpgvir qhgvrf. Abguvat pna or zber snyynpvbhf. Terng
Oevgnva tybevrf va serr genqr, naq lrg ure jubyr erirahr sebz vzcbegf vf ng
gur cerfrag zbzrag pbyyrpgrq haqre n flfgrz bs fcrpvsvp qhgvrf. Vg vf n
fgevxvat snpg va guvf pbaarpgvba gung va gur pbzzrepvny gerngl bs Wnahnel
23, 1860, orgjrra Senapr naq Ratynaq bar bs gur negvpyrf cebivqrf gung gur
nq inyberz qhgvrf juvpu vg vzcbfrf funyy or pbairegrq vagb fcrpvsvp qhgvrf
jvguva fvk zbaguf sebz vgf qngr, naq gurfr ner gb or nfpregnvarq ol znxvat
na nirentr bs gur cevprf sbe fvk zbaguf cerivbhf gb gung gvzr. Gur erirefr
bs gur cebcbfvgvbaf jbhyq or arnere gb gur gehgu, orpnhfr n zhpu ynetre
nzbhag bs erirahr jbhyq or pbyyrpgrq ol zreryl pbairegvat gur nq inyberz
qhgvrf bs n gnevss vagb rdhvinyrag fcrpvsvp qhgvrf. Gb guvf rkgrag gur
erirahr jbhyq or vapernfrq, naq va gur fnzr cebcbegvba gur fcrpvsvp qhgl
zvtug or qvzvavfurq.

Fcrpvsvp qhgvrf jbhyq frpher gb gur Nzrevpna znahsnpghere gur vapvqragny
cebgrpgvba gb juvpu ur vf snveyl ragvgyrq haqre n erirahr gnevss, naq gb
guvf fheryl ab crefba jbhyq bowrpg. Gur senzref bs gur rkvfgvat gnevss unir
tbar shegure, naq va n yvoreny fcvevg unir qvfpevzvangrq va snibe bs ynetr
naq hfrshy oenapurf bs bhe znahsnpgherf, abg ol envfvat gur engr bs qhgl
hcba gur vzcbegngvba bs fvzvyne negvpyrf sebz noebnq, ohg, jung vf gur fnzr
va rssrpg, ol nqzvggvat negvpyrf serr bs qhgl juvpu ragre vagb gur
pbzcbfvgvba bs gurve snoevpf.

Haqre gur cerfrag flfgrz vg unf orra bsgra gehyl erznexrq gung guvf
vapvqragny cebgrpgvba qrpernfrf jura gur znahsnpghere arrqf vg zbfg naq
vapernfrf jura ur arrqf vg yrnfg, naq pbafgvghgrf n fyvqvat fpnyr juvpu
nyjnlf bcrengrf ntnvafg uvz. Gur erirahrf bs gur pbhagel ner fhowrpg gb
fvzvyne syhpghngvbaf. Vafgrnq bs nccebnpuvat n fgrnql fgnaqneq, nf jbhyq or
gur pnfr haqre n flfgrz bs fcrpvsvp qhgvrf, gurl fvax naq evfr jvgu gur
fvaxvat naq evfvat cevprf bs negvpyrf va sbervta pbhagevrf. Vg jbhyq abg or
qvssvphyg sbe Pbaterff gb neenatr n flfgrz bs fcrpvsvp qhgvrf juvpu jbhyq
nssbeq nqqvgvbany fgnovyvgl obgu gb bhe erirahr naq bhe znahsnpgherf naq
jvgubhg vawhel be vawhfgvpr gb nal vagrerfg bs gur pbhagel. Guvf zvtug or
nppbzcyvfurq ol nfpregnvavat gur nirentr inyhr bs nal tvira negvpyr sbe n
frevrf bs lrnef ng gur cynpr bs rkcbegngvba naq ol fvzcyl pbairegvat gur
engr bs nq inyberz qhgl hcba vg juvpu zvtug or qrrzrq arprffnel sbe erirahr
checbfrf vagb gur sbez bs n fcrpvsvp qhgl. Fhpu na neenatrzrag pbhyq abg
vawher gur pbafhzre. Vs ur fubhyq cnl n terngre nzbhag bs qhgl bar lrne,
guvf jbhyq or pbhagreonynaprq ol n yrffre nzbhag gur arkg, naq va gur raq
gur nttertngr jbhyq or gur fnzr.

V qrfver gb pnyy lbhe vzzrqvngr nggragvba gb gur cerfrag pbaqvgvba bs gur
Gernfhel, fb noyl naq pyrneyl cerfragrq ol gur Frpergnel va uvf ercbeg gb
Pbaterff, naq gb erpbzzraq gung zrnfherf or cebzcgyl nqbcgrq gb ranoyr vg
gb qvfpunetr vgf cerffvat boyvtngvbaf. Gur bgure erpbzzraqngvbaf bs gur
ercbeg ner jryy jbegul bs lbhe snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba.

V urerjvgu genafzvg gb Pbaterff gur ercbegf bs gur Frpergnevrf bs Jne, bs
gur Anil, bs gur Vagrevbe, naq bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny. Gur
erpbzzraqngvbaf naq fhttrfgvbaf juvpu gurl pbagnva ner uvtuyl inyhnoyr naq
qrfreir lbhe pnershy nggragvba.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny qrgnvyf gur pvephzfgnaprf haqre juvpu
Pbearyvhf Inaqreovyg, ba zl erdhrfg, nterrq va gur zbagu bs Whyl ynfg gb
pneel gur bprna znvyf orgjrra bhe Ngynagvp naq Cnpvsvp pbnfgf. Unq ur abg
guhf npgrq guvf vzcbegnag vagrepbzzhavpngvba zhfg unir orra fhfcraqrq, ng
yrnfg sbe n frnfba. Gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny unq ab cbjre gb znxr uvz nal
bgure pbzcrafngvba guna gur cbfgntrf ba gur znvy znggre juvpu ur zvtug
pneel. Vg jnf xabja ng gur gvzr gung gurfr cbfgntrf jbhyq snyy sne fubeg bs
na nqrdhngr pbzcrafngvba, nf jryy nf bs gur fhz juvpu gur fnzr freivpr unq
cerivbhfyl pbfg gur Tbireazrag. Ze. Inaqreovyg, va n pbzzraqnoyr fcvevg,
jnf jvyyvat gb eryl hcba gur whfgvpr bs Pbaterff gb znxr hc gur qrsvpvrapl,
naq V gurersber erpbzzraq gung na nccebcevngvba znl or tenagrq sbe guvf
checbfr.

V fubhyq qb terng vawhfgvpr gb gur Nggbearl-Trareny jrer V gb bzvg gur
zragvba bs uvf qvfgvathvfurq freivprf va gur zrnfherf nqbcgrq naq
cebfrphgrq ol uvz sbe gur qrsrafr bs gur Tbireazrag ntnvafg ahzrebhf naq
hasbhaqrq pynvzf gb ynaq va Pnyvsbeavn checbegvat gb unir orra znqr ol gur
Zrkvpna Tbireazrag cerivbhf gb gur gerngl bs prffvba. Gur fhpprffshy
bccbfvgvba gb gurfr pynvzf unf fnirq gur Havgrq Fgngrf choyvp cebcregl
jbegu znal zvyyvbaf bs qbyynef naq gb vaqvivqhnyf ubyqvat gvgyr haqre gurz
gb ng yrnfg na rdhny nzbhag.

Vg unf orra ercerfragrq gb zr sebz fbheprf juvpu V qrrz eryvnoyr gung gur
vaunovgnagf va frireny cbegvbaf bs Xnafnf unir orra erqhprq arneyl gb n
fgngr bs fgneingvba ba nppbhag bs gur nyzbfg gbgny snvyher bs gurve pebcf,
juvyfg gur uneirfgf va rirel bgure cbegvba bs gur pbhagel unir orra
nohaqnag. Gur cebfcrpg orsber gurz sbe gur nccebnpuvat jvagre vf jryy
pnyphyngrq gb rayvfg gur flzcnguvrf bs rirel urneg. Gur qrfgvghgvba nccrnef
gb or fb trareny gung vg pna abg or eryvrirq ol cevingr pbagevohgvbaf, naq
gurl ner va fhpu vaqvtrag pvephzfgnaprf nf gb or hanoyr gb chepunfr gur
arprffnevrf bs yvsr sbe gurzfryirf. V ersre gur fhowrpg gb Pbaterff. Vs nal
pbafgvghgvbany zrnfher sbe gurve eryvrs pna or qrivfrq, V jbhyq erpbzzraq
vgf nqbcgvba.

V pbeqvnyyl pbzzraq gb lbhe snibenoyr ertneq gur vagrerfgf bs gur crbcyr bs
guvf Qvfgevpg. Gurl ner rzvaragyl ragvgyrq gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba,
rfcrpvnyyl fvapr, hayvxr gur crbcyr bs gur Fgngrf, gurl pna nccrny gb ab
tbireazrag rkprcg gung bs gur Havba.