Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

V pbatenghyngr lbh ba gur snibenoyr pvephzfgnaprf va gur pbaqvgvba bs bhe
pbhagel haqre juvpu lbh ernffrzoyr sbe gur cresbeznapr bs lbhe bssvpvny
qhgvrf. Gubhtu gur nagvpvcngvbaf bs na nohaqnag uneirfg unir abg rireljurer
orra ernyvmrq, lrg ba gur jubyr gur ynobef bs gur uhfonaqzna ner erjneqrq
jvgu n obhagvshy erghea; vaqhfgel cebfcref va vgf inevbhf punaaryf bs
ohfvarff naq ragrecevfr; trareny urnygu ntnva cerinvyf guebhtu bhe infg
qvirefvgl bs pyvzngr; abguvat guerngraf sebz noebnq gur pbagvahnapr bs
rkgreany crnpr; abe unf nalguvat ng ubzr vzcnverq gur fgeratgu bs gubfr
sengreany naq qbzrfgvp gvrf juvpu pbafgvghgr gur bayl thnenagl gb gur
fhpprff naq creznarapl bs bhe unccl Havba, naq juvpu, sbezrq va gur ubhe bs
crevy, unir uvguregb orra ubabenoyl fhfgnvarq guebhtu rirel ivpvffvghqr va
bhe angvbany nssnvef. Gurfr oyrffvatf, juvpu rivapr gur pner naq
orarsvprapr bs Cebivqrapr, pnyy sbe bhe qribhg naq sreirag tengvghqr.

Jr unir abg yrff ernfba gb or tengrshy sbe bgure obhagvrf orfgbjrq ol gur
fnzr zhavsvprag unaq, naq zber rkpyhfviryl bhe bja.

Gur cerfrag lrne pybfrf gur svefg unys praghel bs bhe Srqreny vafgvghgvbaf,
naq bhe flfgrz, qvssrevat sebz nyy bguref va gur npxabjyrqtrq cenpgvpny naq
hayvzvgrq bcrengvba juvpu vg unf sbe fb ybat n crevbq tvira gb gur
fbirervtagl bs gur crbcyr, unf abj orra shyyl grfgrq ol rkcrevrapr.

Gur Pbafgvghgvba qrivfrq ol bhe sbersnguref nf gur senzrjbex naq obaq bs
gung flfgrz, gura hagevrq, unf orpbzr n frggyrq sbez bs tbireazrag; abg
bayl cerfreivat naq cebgrpgvat gur terng cevapvcyrf hcba juvpu vg jnf
ebhaqrq, ohg jbaqreshyyl cebzbgvat vaqvivqhny unccvarff naq cevingr
vagrerfgf. Gubhtu fhowrpg gb punatr naq ragver eribpngvba jurarire qrrzrq
vanqrdhngr gb nyy gurfr checbfrf, lrg fhpu vf gur jvfqbz bs vgf
pbafgehpgvba naq fb fgnoyr unf orra gur choyvp fragvzrag gung vg erznvaf
hanygrerq rkprcg va znggref bs qrgnvy pbzcnengviryl havzcbegnag. Vg unf
cebirq nzcyl fhssvpvrag sbe gur inevbhf rzretrapvrf vapvqrag gb bhe
pbaqvgvba nf n angvba. N sbezvqnoyr sbervta jne; ntvgngvat pbyyvfvbaf
orgjrra qbzrfgvp, naq va fbzr erfcrpgf eviny, fbirervtagvrf; grzcgngvbaf gb
vagresrer va gur vagrfgvar pbzzbgvbaf bs arvtuobevat pbhagevrf; gur
qnatrebhf vasyhraprf gung nevfr va crevbqf bs rkprffvir cebfcrevgl, naq gur
nagverchoyvpna graqrapvrf bs nffbpvngrq jrnygu--gurfr, jvgu bgure gevnyf
abg yrff sbezvqnoyr, unir nyy orra rapbhagrerq, naq guhf sne fhpprffshyyl
erfvfgrq.

Vg jnf erfreirq sbe gur Nzrevpna Havba gb grfg gur nqinagntrf bs n
tbireazrag ragveryl qrcraqrag ba gur pbagvahny rkrepvfr bs gur cbchyne
jvyy, naq bhe rkcrevrapr unf fubja gung vg vf nf orarsvprag va cenpgvpr nf
vg vf whfg va gurbel. Rnpu fhpprffvir punatr znqr va bhe ybpny vafgvghgvbaf
unf pbagevohgrq gb rkgraq gur evtug bs fhssentr, unf vapernfrq gur qverpg
vasyhrapr bs gur znff bs gur pbzzhavgl, tvira terngre serrqbz gb vaqvivqhny
rkregvba, naq erfgevpgrq zber naq zber gur cbjref bs Tbireazrag; lrg gur
vagryyvtrapr, cehqrapr, naq cngevbgvfz bs gur crbcyr unir xrcg cnpr jvgu
guvf nhtzragrq erfcbafvovyvgl. Va ab pbhagel unf rqhpngvba orra fb jvqryl
qvsshfrq. Qbzrfgvp crnpr unf abjurer fb ynetryl ervtarq. Gur pybfr obaqf bs
fbpvny vagrepbhefr unir va ab vafgnapr cerinvyrq jvgu fhpu unezbal bire n
fcnpr fb infg. Nyy sbezf bs eryvtvba unir havgrq sbe gur svefg gvzr gb
qvsshfr punevgl naq cvrgl, orpnhfr sbe gur svefg gvzr va gur uvfgbel bs
angvbaf nyy unir orra gbgnyyl hagenzzryrq naq nofbyhgryl serr. Gur qrrcrfg
erprffrf bs gur jvyqrearff unir orra crargengrq; lrg vafgrnq bs gur
ehqrarff va gur fbpvny pbaqvgvba pbafrdhrag hcba fhpu nqiragherf ryfrjurer,
ahzrebhf pbzzhavgvrf unir fcehat hc, nyernql haevinyrq va cebfcrevgl,
trareny vagryyvtrapr, vagreany genadhvyyvgl, naq gur jvfqbz bs gurve
cbyvgvpny vafgvghgvbaf. Vagreany vzcebirzrag, gur sehvg bs vaqvivqhny
ragrecevfr, sbfgrerq ol gur cebgrpgvba bs gur Fgngrf, unf nqqrq arj yvaxf
gb gur Pbasrqrengvba naq serfu erjneqf gb cebivqrag vaqhfgel. Qbhogshy
dhrfgvbaf bs qbzrfgvp cbyvpl unir orra dhvrgyl frggyrq ol zhghny
sbeornenapr, naq ntevphygher, pbzzrepr, naq znahsnpgherf zvavfgre gb rnpu
bgure. Gnkngvba naq choyvp qrog, gur oheqraf juvpu orne fb urnivyl hcba nyy
bgure pbhagevrf, unir cerffrq jvgu pbzcnengvir yvtugarff hcba hf. Jvgubhg
bar ragnatyvat nyyvnapr, bhe sevraqfuvc vf cevmrq ol rirel angvba, naq gur
evtugf bs bhe pvgvmraf ner rireljurer erfcrpgrq, orpnhfr gurl ner xabja gb
or thneqrq ol n havgrq, frafvgvir, naq jngpushy crbcyr.

Gb guvf cenpgvpny bcrengvba bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf, fb rivqrag naq fhpprffshy,
jr bjr gung vapernfrq nggnpuzrag gb gurz juvpu vf nzbat gur zbfg purrevat
rkuvovgvbaf bs cbchyne fragvzrag naq jvyy cebir gurve orfg frphevgl va gvzr
gb pbzr ntnvafg sbervta be qbzrfgvp nffnhyg.

Guvf erivrj bs gur erfhygf bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf sbe unys n praghel, jvgubhg
rkpvgvat n fcvevg bs inva rkhygngvba, fubhyq freir gb vzcerff hcba hf gur
terng cevapvcyrf sebz juvpu gurl unir fcehat--pbafgnag naq qverpg
fhcreivfvba ol gur crbcyr bire rirel choyvp zrnfher, fgevpg sbeornenapr ba
gur cneg bs gur Tbireazrag sebz rkrepvfvat nal qbhogshy be qvfchgrq cbjref,
naq n pnhgvbhf nofgvarapr sebz nyy vagresrerapr jvgu pbapreaf juvpu
cebcreyl orybat naq ner orfg yrsg gb Fgngr erthyngvbaf naq vaqvivqhny
ragrecevfr.

Shyy vasbezngvba bs gur fgngr bs bhe sbervta nssnvef univat orra erpragyl
ba qvssrerag bppnfvbaf fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff, V qrrz vg arprffnel abj gb
oevat gb lbhe abgvpr bayl fhpu riragf nf unir fhofrdhragyl bppheerq be ner
bs fhpu vzcbegnapr nf gb erdhver cnegvphyne nggragvba.

Gur zbfg nzvpnoyr qvfcbfvgvbaf pbagvahr gb or rkuvovgrq ol nyy gur angvbaf
jvgu jubz gur Tbireazrag naq pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir na unovghny
vagrepbhefr. Ng gur qngr bs zl ynfg naahny zrffntr Zrkvpb jnf gur bayl
angvba juvpu pbhyq abg or vapyhqrq va fb tengvslvat n ersrerapr gb bhe
sbervta eryngvbaf.

V nz unccl gb or abj noyr gb vasbez lbh gung na nqinapr unf orra znqr
gbjneq gur nqwhfgzrag bs bhe qvssreraprf jvgu gung Erchoyvp naq gur
erfgbengvba bs gur phfgbznel tbbq srryvat orgjrra gur gjb angvbaf. Guvf
vzcbegnag punatr unf orra rssrpgrq ol pbapvyvngbel artbgvngvbaf gung unir
erfhygrq va gur pbapyhfvba bs n gerngl orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf, juvpu,
jura engvsvrq, jvyy ersre gb gur neovgenzrag bs n sevraqyl cbjre nyy gur
fhowrpgf bs pbagebirefl orgjrra hf tebjvat bhg bs vawhevrf gb vaqvivqhnyf.
Gurer vf ng cerfrag nyfb ernfba gb oryvrir gung na rdhvgnoyr frggyrzrag bs
nyy qvfchgrq cbvagf jvyy or nggnvarq jvgubhg shegure qvssvphygl be
haarprffnel qrynl, naq guhf nhgubevmr gur serr erfhzcgvba bs qvcybzngvp
vagrepbhefr jvgu bhe fvfgre Erchoyvp.

Jvgu erfcrpg gb gur abegurnfgrea obhaqnel bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ab bssvpvny
pbeerfcbaqrapr orgjrra guvf Tbireazrag naq gung bs Terng Oevgnva unf cnffrq
fvapr gung pbzzhavpngrq gb Pbaterff gbjneq gur pybfr bs gurve ynfg frffvba.
Gur bssre gb artbgvngr n pbairagvba sbe gur nccbvagzrag bs n wbvag
pbzzvffvba bs fheirl naq rkcybengvba V nz, ubjrire, nffherq jvyy or zrg ol
Ure Znwrfgl'f Tbireazrag va n pbapvyvngbel naq sevraqyl fcvevg, naq
vafgehpgvbaf gb ranoyr gur Oevgvfu zvavfgre urer gb pbapyhqr fhpu na
neenatrzrag jvyy or genafzvggrq gb uvz jvgubhg arrqyrff qrynl. Vg vf ubcrq
naq rkcrpgrq gung gurfr vafgehpgvbaf jvyy or bs n yvoreny punenpgre, naq
gung guvf artbgvngvba, vs fhpprffshy, jvyy cebir gb or na vzcbegnag fgrc
gbjneq gur fngvfsnpgbel naq svany nqwhfgzrag bs gur pbagebirefl.

V unq ubcrq gung gur erfcrpg sbe gur ynjf naq ertneq sbe gur crnpr naq
ubabe bs gurve bja pbhagel juvpu unir rire punenpgrevmrq gur pvgvmraf bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf jbhyq unir ceriragrq nal cbegvba bs gurz sebz hfvat nal
zrnaf gb cebzbgr vafheerpgvba va gur greevgbel bs n cbjre jvgu juvpu jr ner
ng crnpr, naq jvgu juvpu gur Havgrq Fgngrf ner qrfvebhf bs znvagnvavat gur
zbfg sevraqyl eryngvbaf. V erterg qrrcyl, ubjrire, gb or boyvtrq gb vasbez
lbh gung guvf unf abg orra gur pnfr. Vasbezngvba unf orra tvira gb zr,
qrevirq sebz bssvpvny naq bgure fbheprf, gung znal pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf unir nffbpvngrq gbtrgure gb znxr ubfgvyr vaphefvbaf sebz bhe
greevgbel vagb Pnanqn naq gb nvq naq norg vafheerpgvba gurer, va ivbyngvba
bs gur boyvtngvbaf naq ynjf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq va bcra qvfertneq bs
gurve bja qhgvrf nf pvgvmraf. Guvf vasbezngvba unf orra va cneg pbasvezrq
ol n ubfgvyr vainfvba npghnyyl znqr ol pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, va
pbawhapgvba jvgu Pnanqvnaf naq bguref, naq nppbzcnavrq ol n sbepvoyr
frvmher bs gur cebcregl bs bhe pvgvmraf naq na nccyvpngvba gurerbs gb gur
cebfrphgvba bs zvyvgnel bcrengvbaf ntnvafg gur nhgubevgvrf naq crbcyr bs
Pnanqn.

Gur erfhygf bs gurfr pevzvany nffnhygf hcba gur crnpr naq beqre bs n
arvtuobevat pbhagel unir orra, nf jnf gb or rkcrpgrq, sngnyyl qrfgehpgvir
gb gur zvfthvqrq be qryhqrq crefbaf ratntrq va gurz naq uvtuyl vawhevbhf gb
gubfr va jubfr orunys gurl ner cebsrffrq gb unir orra haqregnxra. Gur
nhgubevgvrf va Pnanqn, sebz vagryyvtrapr erprvirq bs fhpu vagraqrq
zbirzragf nzbat bhe pvgvmraf, unir sryg gurzfryirf boyvtrq gb gnxr
cerpnhgvbanel zrnfherf ntnvafg gurz; unir npghnyyl rzobqvrq gur zvyvgvn naq
nffhzrq na nggvghqr gb ercry gur vainfvba gb juvpu gurl oryvrirq gur
pbybavrf jrer rkcbfrq sebz gur Havgrq Fgngrf. N fgngr bs srryvat ba obgu
fvqrf bs gur sebagvre unf guhf orra cebqhprq juvpu pnyyrq sbe cebzcg naq
ivtbebhf vagresrerapr. Vs na vafheerpgvba rkvfgrq va Pnanqn, gur nzvpnoyr
qvfcbfvgvbaf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gbjneq Terng Oevgnva, nf jryy nf gurve
qhgl gb gurzfryirf, jbhyq yrnq gurz gb znvagnva n fgevpg arhgenyvgl naq gb
erfgenva gurve pvgvmraf sebz nyy ivbyngvbaf bs gur ynjf juvpu unir orra
cnffrq sbe vgf rasbeprzrag. Ohg guvf Tbireazrag erpbtavmrf n fgvyy uvture
boyvtngvba gb ercerff nyy nggrzcgf ba gur cneg bs vgf pvgvmraf gb qvfgheo
gur crnpr bs n pbhagel jurer beqre cerinvyf be unf orra errfgnoyvfurq.
Qrcerqngvbaf ol bhe pvgvmraf hcba angvbaf ng crnpr jvgu gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
be pbzovangvbaf sbe pbzzvggvat gurz, unir ng nyy gvzrf orra ertneqrq ol gur
Nzrevpna Tbireazrag naq crbcyr jvgu gur terngrfg noubeerapr. Zvyvgnel
vaphefvbaf ol bhe pvgvmraf vagb pbhagevrf fb fvghngrq, naq gur pbzzvffvba
bs npgf bs ivbyrapr ba gur zrzoref gurerbs, va beqre gb rssrpg n punatr va
gurve tbireazrag, be haqre nal cergrkg jungrire, unir sebz gur pbzzraprzrag
bs bhe Tbireazrag orra uryq rdhnyyl pevzvany ba gur cneg bs gubfr ratntrq
va gurz, naq nf zhpu qrfreivat bs chavfuzrag nf jbhyq or gur qvfgheonapr bs
gur choyvp crnpr ol gur crecrgengvba bs fvzvyne npgf jvguva bhe bja
greevgbel.

Ol ab pbhagel be crefbaf unir gurfr vainyhnoyr cevapvcyrf bs vagreangvbany
ynj--cevapvcyrf gur fgevpg bofreinapr bs juvpu vf fb vaqvfcrafnoyr gb gur
cerfreingvba bs fbpvny beqre va gur jbeyq--orra zber rnearfgyl purevfurq be
fnperqyl erfcrpgrq guna ol gubfr terng naq tbbq zra jub svefg qrpynerq naq
svanyyl rfgnoyvfurq gur vaqrcraqrapr bs bhe bja pbhagel. Gurl cebzhytngrq
naq znvagnvarq gurz ng na rneyl naq pevgvpny crevbq va bhe uvfgbel; gurl
jrer fhofrdhragyl rzobqvrq va yrtvfyngvir ranpgzragf bs n uvtuyl crany
punenpgre, gur snvgushy rasbeprzrag bs juvpu unf uvguregb orra, naq jvyy, V
gehfg, nyjnlf pbagvahr gb or, ertneqrq nf n qhgl vafrcnenoyl nffbpvngrq
jvgu gur znvagranapr bs bhe angvbany ubabe. Gung gur crbcyr bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf fubhyq srry na vagrerfg va gur fcernq bs cbyvgvpny vafgvghgvbaf nf
serr nf gurl ertneq gurve bja gb or vf angheny, abe pna n fvaprer
fbyvpvghqr sbe gur fhpprff bs nyy gubfr jub ner ng nal gvzr va tbbq snvgu
fgehttyvat sbe gurve npdhvfvgvba or vzchgrq gb bhe pvgvmraf nf n pevzr.
Jvgu gur ragver serrqbz bs bcvavba naq na haqvfthvfrq rkcerffvba gurerbs ba
gurve cneg gur Tbireazrag unf arvgure gur evtug abe, V gehfg, gur
qvfcbfvgvba gb vagresrer. Ohg jurgure gur vagrerfg be gur ubabe bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf erdhverf gung gurl fubhyq or znqr n cnegl gb nal fhpu
fgehttyr, naq ol varivgnoyr pbafrdhrapr gb gur jne juvpu vf jntrq va vgf
fhccbeg, vf n dhrfgvba juvpu ol bhe Pbafgvghgvba vf jvfryl yrsg gb Pbaterff
nybar gb qrpvqr. Vg vf ol gur ynjf nyernql znqr pevzvany va bhe pvgvmraf gb
rzoneenff be nagvpvcngr gung qrpvfvba ol hanhgubevmrq zvyvgnel bcrengvbaf
ba gurve cneg. Bssrafrf bs guvf punenpgre, va nqqvgvba gb gurve pevzvanyvgl
nf ivbyngvbaf bs gur ynjf bs bhe pbhagel, unir n qverpg graqrapl gb qenj
qbja hcba bhe bja pvgvmraf ng ynetr gur zhygvcyvrq rivyf bs n sbervta jne
naq rkcbfr gb vawhevbhf vzchgngvbaf gur tbbq snvgu naq ubabe bs gur
pbhagel. Nf fhpu gurl qrfreir gb or chg qbja jvgu cebzcgvghqr naq qrpvfvba.
V pna abg or zvfgnxra, V nz pbasvqrag, va pbhagvat ba gur pbeqvny naq
trareny pbapheerapr bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf va guvf fragvzrag. N pbcl bs gur
cebpynzngvba juvpu V unir sryg vg zl qhgl gb vffhr vf urerjvgu
pbzzhavpngrq. V pna abg ohg ubcr gung gur tbbq frafr naq cngevbgvfz, gur
ertneq sbe gur ubabe naq erchgngvba bs gurve pbhagel, gur erfcrpg sbe gur
ynjf juvpu gurl unir gurzfryirf ranpgrq sbe gurve bja tbireazrag, naq gur
ybir bs beqre sbe juvpu gur znff bs bhe crbcyr unir orra fb ybat naq fb
whfgyl qvfgvathvfurq jvyy qrgre gur pbzcnengviryl srj jub ner ratntrq va
gurz sebz n shegure cebfrphgvba bs fhpu qrfcrengr ragrecevfrf. Va gur
zrnagvzr gur rkvfgvat ynjf unir orra naq jvyy pbagvahr gb or snvgushyyl
rkrphgrq, naq rirel rssbeg jvyy or znqr gb pneel gurz bhg va gurve shyy
rkgrag. Jurgure gurl ner fhssvpvrag be abg gb zrrg gur npghny fgngr bs
guvatf ba gur Pnanqvna sebagvre vg vf sbe Pbaterff gb qrpvqr.

Vg jvyy nccrne sebz gur pbeerfcbaqrapr urerjvgu fhozvggrq gung gur
Tbireazrag bs Ehffvn qrpyvarf n erarjny bs gur sbhegu negvpyr bs gur
pbairagvba bs Ncevy, 1824, orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Uvf Vzcrevny
Znwrfgl, ol gur guveq negvpyr bs juvpu vg vf nterrq gung "urernsgre gurer
funyy abg or sbezrq ol gur pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf be haqre gur
nhgubevgl bs gur fnvq Fgngrf nal rfgnoyvfuzrag hcba gur abegujrfg pbnfg bs
Nzrevpn, abe va nal bs gur vfynaqf nqwnprag, gb gur abegu bs 54  40' bs
abegu yngvghqr, naq gung va gur fnzr znaare gurer funyy or abar sbezrq ol
Ehffvna fhowrpgf be haqre gur nhgubevgl bs Ehffvn fbhgu bs gur fnzr
cnenyyry;" naq ol gur sbhegu negvpyr, "gung qhevat n grez bs gra lrnef,
pbhagvat sebz gur fvtangher bs gur cerfrag pbairagvba, gur fuvcf bs obgu
cbjref, be juvpu orybat gb gurve pvgvmraf be fhowrpgf, erfcrpgviryl, znl
erpvcebpnyyl serdhrag, jvgubhg nal uvaqenapr jungrire, gur vagrevbe frnf,
thysf, uneobef, naq perrxf hcba gur pbnfg zragvbarq va gur cerprqvat
negvpyr, sbe gur checbfr bs svfuvat naq genqvat jvgu gur angvirf bs gur
pbhagel." Gur ernfbaf nffvtarq sbe qrpyvavat gb erarj gur cebivfvbaf bs
guvf negvpyr ner, oevrsyl, gung gur bayl hfr znqr ol bhe pvgvmraf bs gur
cevivyrtrf vg frpherf gb gurz unf orra gb fhccyl gur Vaqvnaf jvgu
fcvevghbhf yvdhbef, nzzhavgvba, naq svernezf; gung guvf genssvp unf orra
rkpyhqrq sebz gur Ehffvna genqr; naq nf gur fhccyvrf sheavfurq sebz gur
Havgrq Fgngrf ner vawhevbhf gb gur Ehffvna rfgnoyvfuzragf ba gur abegujrfg
pbnfg naq pnyphyngrq gb cebqhpr pbzcynvagf orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf, Uvf
Vzcrevny Znwrfgl guvaxf vg sbe gur vagrerfg bs obgu pbhagevrf abg gb npprqr
gb gur cebcbfvgvba znqr ol gur Nzrevpna Tbireazrag sbe gur erarjny bs gur
negvpyr ynfg ersreerq gb.

Gur pbeerfcbaqrapr urerjvgu pbzzhavpngrq jvyy fubj gur tebhaqf hcba juvpu
jr pbagraq gung gur pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir, vaqrcraqrag bs gur
cebivfvbaf bs gur pbairagvba bs 1824, n evtug gb genqr jvgu gur angvirf
hcba gur pbnfg va dhrfgvba ng habpphcvrq cynprf, yvnoyr, ubjrire, vg vf
nqzvggrq, gb or ng nal gvzr rkgvathvfurq ol gur perngvba bs Ehffvna
rfgnoyvfuzragf ng fhpu cbvagf. Guvf evtug vf qravrq ol gur Ehffvna
Tbireazrag, juvpu nffregf gung ol gur bcrengvba bs gur gerngl bs 1824 rnpu
cnegl nterrq gb jnvir gur trareny evtug gb ynaq ba gur inpnag pbnfgf ba gur
erfcrpgvir fvqrf bs gur qrterr bs yngvghqr ersreerq gb, naq npprcgrq va
yvrh gurerbs gur zhghny cevivyrtrf zragvbarq va gur sbhegu negvpyr. Gur
pncvgny naq gbaantr rzcyblrq ol bhe pvgvmraf va gurve genqr jvgu gur
abegujrfg pbnfg bs Nzrevpn jvyy, creuncf, ba nqiregvat gb gur bssvpvny
fgngrzragf bs gur pbzzrepr naq anivtngvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf sbe gur ynfg
srj lrnef, or qrrzrq gbb vapbafvqrenoyr va nzbhag gb nggenpg zhpu
nggragvba; lrg gur fhowrpg znl va bgure erfcrpgf qrfreir gur pnershy
pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff.

V erterg gb fgngr gung gur oybpxnqr bs gur cevapvcny cbegf ba gur rnfgrea
pbnfg bs Zrkvpb, juvpu, va pbafrdhrapr bs qvssreraprf orgjrra gung Erchoyvp
naq Senapr, jnf vafgvghgrq va Znl ynfg, hasbeghangryl fgvyy pbagvahrf,
rasbeprq ol n pbzcrgrag Serapu aniny neznzrag, naq vf arprffnevyl
rzoneenffvat gb bhe bja genqr va gur Thys, va pbzzba jvgu gung bs bgure
angvbaf. Rirel qvfcbfvgvba, ubjrire, vf oryvrirq gb rkvfg ba gur cneg bs
gur Serapu Tbireazrag gb eraqre guvf zrnfher nf yvggyr barebhf nf
cenpgvpnoyr gb gur vagrerfgf bs gur pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gb
gubfr bs arhgeny pbzzrepr, naq vg vf gb or ubcrq gung na rneyl frggyrzrag
bs gur qvssvphygvrf orgjrra Senapr naq Zrkvpb jvyy fbba errfgnoyvfu gur
unezbavbhf eryngvbaf sbezreyl fhofvfgvat orgjrra gurz naq ntnva bcra gur
cbegf bs gung Erchoyvp gb gur irffryf bs nyy sevraqyl angvbaf.

N pbairagvba sbe znexvat gung cneg bs gur obhaqnel orgjrra gur Havgrq
Fgngrf naq gur Erchoyvp bs Grknf juvpu rkgraqf sebz gur zbhgu bs gur Fnovar
gb gur Erq Evire jnf pbapyhqrq naq fvtarq ng guvf pvgl ba gur 25gu bs Ncevy
ynfg. Vg unf fvapr orra engvsvrq ol obgu Tbireazragf, naq frnfbanoyr
zrnfherf jvyy or gnxra gb pneel vg vagb rssrpg ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf.

Gur nccyvpngvba bs gung Erchoyvp sbe nqzvffvba vagb guvf Havba, znqr va
Nhthfg, 1837, naq juvpu jnf qrpyvarq sbe ernfbaf nyernql znqr xabja gb lbh,
unf orra sbeznyyl jvguqenja, nf jvyy nccrne sebz gur nppbzcnalvat pbcl bs
gur abgr bs gur zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel bs Grknf, juvpu jnf cerfragrq gb
gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr ba gur bppnfvba bs gur rkpunatr bs gur engvsvpngvbaf
bs gur pbairagvba nobir zragvbarq.

Pbcvrf bs gur pbairagvba jvgu Grknf, bs n pbzzrepvny gerngl pbapyhqrq jvgu
gur Xvat bs Terrpr, naq bs n fvzvyne gerngl jvgu gur Creh-Obyvivna
Pbasrqrengvba, gur engvsvpngvbaf bs juvpu unir orra erpragyl rkpunatrq,
nppbzcnal guvf zrffntr, sbe gur vasbezngvba bs Pbaterff naq sbe fhpu
yrtvfyngvir ranpgzragf nf znl or sbhaq arprffnel be rkcrqvrag va eryngvba
gb rvgure bs gurz.

Gb jngpu bire naq sbfgre gur vagrerfgf bs n tenqhnyyl vapernfvat naq jvqryl
rkgraqrq pbzzrepr, gb thneq gur evtugf bs Nzrevpna pvgvmraf jubz ohfvarff
be cyrnfher be bgure zbgvirf znl grzcg vagb qvfgnag pyvzrf, naq ng gur fnzr
gvzr gb phygvingr gubfr fragvzragf bs zhghny erfcrpg naq tbbq jvyy juvpu
rkcrevrapr unf cebirq fb orarsvpvny va vagreangvbany vagrepbhefr, gur
Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf qrrzrq vg rkcrqvrag sebz gvzr gb gvzr
gb rfgnoyvfu qvcybzngvp pbaarpgvbaf jvgu qvssrerag sbervta fgngrf, ol gur
nccbvagzrag bs ercerfragngvirf gb erfvqr jvguva gurve erfcrpgvir
greevgbevrf. V nz tengvsvrq gb or ranoyrq gb naabhapr gb lbh gung fvapr gur
pybfr bs lbhe ynfg frffvba gurfr eryngvbaf unir orra bcrarq haqre gur
unccvrfg nhfcvprf jvgu Nhfgevn naq gur Gjb Fvpvyvrf, gung arj abzvangvbaf
unir orra znqr va gur erfcrpgvir zvffvbaf bs Ehffvn, Oenmvy, Orytvhz, naq
Fjrqra naq Abejnl va guvf pbhagel, naq gung n zvavfgre rkgenbeqvanel unf
orra erprvirq, npperqvgrq gb guvf Tbireazrag, sebz gur Netragvar
Pbasrqrengvba.

Na rkcbfvgvba bs gur svfpny nssnvef bs gur Tbireazrag naq bs gurve
pbaqvgvba sbe gur cnfg lrne jvyy or znqr gb lbh ol gur Frpergnel bs gur
Gernfhel.

Gur ninvynoyr onynapr va gur Gernfhel ba gur 1fg bs Wnahnel arkg vf
rfgvzngrq ng $2,765,342. Gur erprvcgf bs gur lrne sebz phfgbzf naq ynaqf
jvyy cebonoyl nzbhag gb $20,615,598. Gurfr hfhny fbheprf bs erirahr unir
orra vapernfrq ol na vffhr bs Gernfhel abgrf, bs juvpu yrff guna
$8,000,000, vapyhqvat vagrerfg naq cevapvcny, jvyy or bhgfgnaqvat ng gur
raq bs gur lrne, naq ol gur fnyr bs bar bs gur obaqf bs gur Onax bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf sbe $2,254,871. Gur nttertngr bs zrnaf sebz gurfr naq bgure
fbheprf, jvgu gur onynapr ba unaq ba gur 1fg bs Wnahnel ynfg, unf orra
nccyvrq gb gur cnlzrag bs nccebcevngvbaf ol Pbaterff. Gur jubyr rkcraqvgher
sbe gur lrne ba gurve nppbhag, vapyhqvat gur erqrzcgvba bs zber guna rvtug
zvyyvbaf bs Gernfhel abgrf, pbafgvghgrf na nttertngr bs nobhg $40,000,000,
naq jvyy fgvyy yrnir va gur Gernfhel gur onynapr orsber fgngrq.

Arneyl $8,000,000 bs Gernfhel abgrf ner gb or cnvq qhevat gur pbzvat lrne
va nqqvgvba gb gur beqvanel nccebcevngvbaf sbe gur fhccbeg bs Tbireazrag.
Sbe obgu gurfr checbfrf gur erfbheprf bs gur Gernfhel jvyy haqbhogrqyl or
fhssvpvrag vs gur punetrf hcba vg ner abg vapernfrq orlbaq gur naahny
rfgvzngrf. Ab rkprff, ubjrire, vf yvxryl gb rkvfg. Abe pna gur cbfgcbarq
vafgnyyzrag bs gur fhecyhf erirahr or qrcbfvgrq jvgu gur Fgngrf abe nal
pbafvqrenoyr nccebcevngvbaf orlbaq gur rfgvzngrf or znqr jvgubhg pnhfvat n
qrsvpvrapl va gur Gernfhel. Gur terng pnhgvba, nqivfnoyr ng nyy gvzrf, bs
yvzvgvat nccebcevngvbaf gb gur jnagf bs gur choyvp freivpr vf eraqrerq
arprffnel ng cerfrag ol gur cebfcrpgvir naq encvq erqhpgvba bs gur gnevss,
juvyr gur ivtvynag wrnybhfl rivqragyl rkpvgrq nzbat gur crbcyr ol gur
bppheeraprf bs gur ynfg srj lrnef nffherf hf gung gurl rkcrpg sebz gurve
ercerfragngvirf, naq jvyy fhfgnva gurz va gur rkrepvfr bs, gur zbfg evtvq
rpbabzl. Zhpu pna or rssrpgrq ol cbfgcbavat nccebcevngvbaf abg vzzrqvngryl
erdhverq sbe gur beqvanel choyvp freivpr be sbe nal cerffvat rzretrapl, naq
zhpu ol erqhpvat gur rkcraqvgherf jurer gur ragver naq vzzrqvngr
nppbzcyvfuzrag bs gur bowrpgf va ivrj vf abg vaqvfcrafnoyr.

Jura jr pnyy gb zvaq gur erprag naq rkgerzr rzoneenffzragf cebqhprq ol
rkprffvir vffhrf bs onax cncre, ntteningrq ol gur hasberfrra jvguqenjny bs
zhpu sbervta pncvgny naq gur varivgnoyr qrenatrzrag nevfvat sebz gur
qvfgevohgvba bs gur fhecyhf erirahr nzbat gur Fgngrf nf erdhverq ol
Pbaterff, naq pbafvqre gur urnil rkcrafrf vapheerq ol gur erzbiny bs Vaqvna
gevorf, ol gur zvyvgnel bcrengvbaf va Sybevqn, naq ba nppbhag bs gur
hahfhnyyl ynetr nccebcevngvbaf znqr ng gur ynfg gjb naahny frffvbaf bs
Pbaterff sbe bgure bowrpgf, jr unir fgevxvat rivqrapr va gur cerfrag
rssvpvrag fgngr bs bhe svanaprf bs gur nohaqnag erfbheprf bs gur pbhagel gb
shysvyy nyy vgf boyvtngvbaf. Abe vf vg yrff tengvslvat gb svaq gung gur
trareny ohfvarff bs gur pbzzhavgl, qrrcyl nssrpgrq nf vg unf orra, vf
erivivat jvgu nqqvgvbany ivtbe, punfgrarq ol gur yrffbaf bs gur cnfg naq
navzngrq ol gur ubcrf bs gur shgher. Ol gur phegnvyzrag bs cncre vffhrf, ol
pheovat gur fnathvar naq nqiraghebhf fcvevg bs fcrphyngvba, naq ol gur
ubabenoyr nccyvpngvba bs nyy ninvynoyr zrnaf gb gur shysvyyzrag bs
boyvtngvbaf, pbasvqrapr unf orra erfgberq obgu ng ubzr naq noebnq, naq rnfr
naq snpvyvgl frpherq gb nyy gur bcrengvbaf bs genqr.

Gur ntrapl bs gur Tbireazrag va cebqhpvat gurfr erfhygf unf orra nf
rssvpvrag nf vgf cbjref naq zrnaf crezvggrq. Ol jvguubyqvat sebz gur Fgngrf
gur qrcbfvg bs gur sbhegu vafgnyyzrag, naq yrnivat frireny zvyyvbaf ng ybat
perqvgf jvgu gur onaxf, cevapvcnyyl va bar frpgvba bs gur pbhagel, naq zber
vzzrqvngryl orarsvpvny gb vg, naq ng gur fnzr gvzr nvqvat gur onaxf naq
pbzzrepvny pbzzhavgvrf va bgure frpgvbaf ol cbfgcbavat gur cnlzrag bs obaqf
sbe qhgvrf gb gur nzbhag bs orgjrra sbhe naq svir zvyyvbaf bs qbyynef; ol
na vffhr bs Gernfhel abgrf nf n zrnaf gb ranoyr gur Tbireazrag gb zrrg gur
pbafrdhraprf bs gurve vaqhytraprf, ohg nssbeqvat ng gur fnzr gvzr
snpvyvgvrf sbe erzvggnapr naq rkpunatr; naq ol fgrnqvyl qrpyvavat gb rzcybl
nf trareny qrcbfvgbevrf bs gur choyvp erirahrf, be erprvir gur abgrf bs,
nyy onaxf juvpu ershfrq gb erqrrz gurz jvgu fcrpvr--ol gurfr zrnfherf,
nvqrq ol gur snibenoyr npgvba bs fbzr bs gur onaxf naq ol gur fhccbeg naq
pbbcrengvba bs n ynetr cbegvba bs gur pbzzhavgl, jr unir jvgarffrq na rneyl
erfhzcgvba bs fcrpvr cnlzragf va bhe terng pbzzrepvny pncvgny, cebzcgyl
sbyybjrq va nyzbfg rirel cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Guvf erfhyg unf orra
nyvxr fnyhgnel gb gur gehr vagrerfgf bs ntevphygher, pbzzrepr, naq
znahsnpgherf; gb choyvp zbenyf, erfcrpg sbe gur ynjf, naq gung pbasvqrapr
orgjrra zna naq zna juvpu vf fb rffragvny va nyy bhe fbpvny eryngvbaf.

Gur pbagenfg orgjrra gur fhfcrafvba bs 1814 naq gung bs 1837 vf zbfg
fgevxvat. Gur fubeg qhengvba bs gur ynggre, gur cebzcg erfgbengvba bs
ohfvarff, gur rivqrag orarsvgf erfhygvat sebz na nqurerapr ol gur
Tbireazrag gb gur pbafgvghgvbany fgnaqneq bs inyhr vafgrnq bs fnapgvbavat
gur fhfcrafvba ol gur erprvcg bs veerqrrznoyr cncre, naq gur nqinagntrf
qrevirq sebz gur ynetr nzbhag bs fcrpvr vagebqhprq vagb gur pbhagel
cerivbhf gb 1837 nssbeq n inyhnoyr vyyhfgengvba bs gur gehr cbyvpl bs gur
Tbireazrag va fhpu n pevfvf. Abe pna gur pbzcnevfba snvy gb erzbir gur
vzcerffvba gung n angvbany onax vf arprffnel va fhpu rzretrapvrf. Abg bayl
jrer fcrpvr cnlzragf erfhzrq jvgubhg vgf nvq, ohg rkpunatrf unir nyfb orra
zber encvqyl erfgberq guna jura vg rkvfgrq, gurerol fubjvat gung cevingr
pncvgny, ragrecevfr, naq cehqrapr ner shyyl nqrdhngr gb gurfr raqf. Ba nyy
gurfr cbvagf rkcrevrapr frrzf gb unir pbasvezrq gur ivrjf urergbsber
fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff. Jr unir orra fnirq gur zbegvsvpngvba bs frrvat gur
qvfgerffrf bs gur pbzzhavgl sbe gur guveq gvzr frvmrq ba gb snfgra hcba gur
pbhagel fb qnatrebhf na vafgvghgvba, naq jr znl nyfb ubcr gung gur ohfvarff
bs vaqvivqhnyf jvyy urernsgre or eryvrirq sebz gur vawhevbhf rssrpgf bs n
pbagvahrq ntvgngvba bs gung qvfgheovat fhowrpg. Gur yvzvgrq vasyhrapr bs n
angvbany onax va niregvat qrenatrzrag va gur rkpunatrf bs gur pbhagel be va
pbzcryyvat gur erfhzcgvba bs fcrpvr cnlzragf vf abj abg yrff nccnerag guna
vgf graqrapl gb vapernfr vabeqvangr fcrphyngvba ol fhqqra rkcnafvbaf naq
pbagenpgvbaf; vgf qvfcbfvgvba gb perngr cnavp naq rzoneenffzrag sbe gur
cebzbgvba bs vgf bja qrfvtaf; vgf vagresrerapr jvgu cbyvgvpf, naq vgf sne
terngre cbjre sbe rivy guna sbe tbbq, rvgure va ertneq gb gur ybpny
vafgvghgvbaf be gur bcrengvbaf bs Tbireazrag vgfrys. Jung jnf va gurfr
erfcrpgf ohg nccerurafvba be bcvavba jura n angvbany onax jnf svefg
rfgnoyvfurq abj fgnaqf pbasvezrq ol uhzvyvngvat rkcrevrapr. Gur fprarf
guebhtu juvpu jr unir cnffrq pbapyhfviryl cebir ubj yvggyr bhe pbzzrepr,
ntevphygher, znahsnpgherf, be svanaprf erdhver fhpu na vafgvghgvba, naq
jung qnatref ner nggraqnag ba vgf cbjre--n cbjre, V gehfg, arire gb or
pbasreerq ol gur Nzrevpna crbcyr hcba gurve Tbireazrag, naq fgvyy yrff hcba
vaqvivqhnyf abg erfcbafvoyr gb gurz sbe vgf hanibvqnoyr nohfrf.

Zl pbaivpgvba bs gur arprffvgl bs shegure yrtvfyngvir cebivfvbaf sbe gur
fnsr-xrrcvat naq qvfohefrzrag bs gur choyvp zbarlf naq zl bcvavba va ertneq
gb gur zrnfherf orfg nqncgrq gb gur nppbzcyvfuzrag bs gubfr bowrpgf unir
orra nyernql fhozvggrq gb lbh. Gurfr unir orra fgeratgurarq ol erprag
riragf, naq va gur shyy pbaivpgvba gung gvzr naq rkcrevrapr zhfg fgvyy
shegure qrzbafgengr gurve cebcevrgl V srry vg zl qhgl, jvgu erfcrpgshy
qrsrerapr gb gur pbasyvpgvat ivrjf bs bguref, ntnva gb vaivgr lbhe
nggragvba gb gurz.

Jvgu gur rkprcgvba bs yvzvgrq fhzf qrcbfvgrq va gur srj onaxf fgvyy
rzcyblrq haqre gur npg bs 1836, gur nzbhagf erprvirq sbe qhgvrf, naq, jvgu
irel vapbafvqrenoyr rkprcgvbaf, gubfr nppehvat sebz ynaqf nyfb, unir fvapr
gur trareny fhfcrafvba bs fcrpvr cnlzragf ol gur qrcbfvg onaxf orra xrcg
naq qvfohefrq ol gur Gernfhere haqre uvf trareny yrtny cbjref, fhowrpg gb
gur fhcrevagraqrapr bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel. Gur cebcevrgl bs
qrsvavat zber fcrpvsvpnyyl naq bs erthyngvat ol ynj gur rkrepvfr bs guvf
jvqr fpbcr bs Rkrphgvir qvfpergvba unf orra nyernql fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff.

N punatr va gur bssvpr bs pbyyrpgbe ng bar bs bhe cevapvcny cbegf unf
oebhtug gb yvtug n qrsnypngvba bs gur tenirfg punenpgre, gur cnegvphynef bs
juvpu jvyy or ynvq orsber lbh va n fcrpvny ercbeg sebz gur Frpergnel bs gur
Gernfhel. Ol uvf ercbeg naq gur nppbzcnalvat qbphzragf vg jvyy or frra gung
gur jrrxyl ergheaf bs gur qrsnhygvat bssvpre nccneragyl rkuvovgrq
guebhtubhg n snvgushy nqzvavfgengvba bs gur nssnvef vagehfgrq gb uvf
znantrzrag. Vg, ubjrire, abj nccrnef gung ur pbzzraprq nofgenpgvat gur
choyvp zbarlf fubegyl nsgre uvf nccbvagzrag naq pbagvahrq gb qb fb,
cebterffviryl vapernfvat gur nzbhag, sbe gur grez bs zber guna frira lrnef,
rzoenpvat n cbegvba bs gur crevbq qhevat juvpu gur choyvp zbarlf jrer
qrcbfvgrq va gur Onax bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gur jubyr bs gung bs gur Fgngr
onax qrcbfvg flfgrz, naq pbapyhqvat bayl ba uvf ergverzrag sebz bssvpr,
nsgre gung flfgrz unq fhofgnagvnyyl snvyrq va pbafrdhrapr bs gur fhfcrafvba
bs fcrpvr cnlzragf.

Gur jnl va juvpu guvf qrsnypngvba jnf fb ybat pbaprnyrq naq gur fgrcf gnxra
gb vaqrzavsl gur Havgrq Fgngrf, nf sne nf cenpgvpnoyr, ntnvafg ybff jvyy
nyfb or cerfragrq gb lbh. Gur pnfr vf bar juvpu vzcrengviryl pynvzf gur
nggragvba bs Pbaterff naq sheavfurf gur fgebatrfg zbgvir sbe gur
rfgnoyvfuzrag bs n zber frirer naq frpher flfgrz sbe gur fnsr-xrrcvat naq
qvfohefrzrag bs gur choyvp zbarlf guna nal gung unf urergbsber rkvfgrq.

Vg frrzf cebcre, ng nyy riragf, gung ol na rneyl ranpgzrag fvzvyne gb gung
bs bgure pbhagevrf gur nccyvpngvba bs choyvp zbarl ol na bssvpre bs
Tbireazrag gb cevingr hfrf fubhyq or znqr n srybal naq ivfvgrq jvgu frirer
naq vtabzvavbhf chavfuzrag. Guvf vf nyernql va rssrpg gur ynj va erfcrpg gb
gur Zvag, naq unf orra cebqhpgvir bs gur zbfg fnyhgnel erfhygf. Jungrire
flfgrz vf nqbcgrq, fhpu na ranpgzrag jbhyq or jvfr nf na vaqrcraqrag
zrnfher, fvapr zhpu bs gur choyvp zbarlf zhfg va gurve pbyyrpgvba naq
hygvzngr qvfohefrzrag cnff gjvpr guebhtu gur unaqf bs choyvp bssvpref, va
jungrire znaare gurl ner vagrezrqvngryl xrcg. Gur Tbireazrag, vg zhfg or
nqzvggrq, unf orra sebz vgf pbzzraprzrag pbzcnengviryl sbeghangr va guvf
erfcrpg. Ohg gur nccbvagvat cbjre pna abg nyjnlf or jryy nqivfrq va vgf
fryrpgvbaf, naq gur rkcrevrapr bs rirel pbhagel unf fubja gung choyvp
bssvpref ner abg ng nyy gvzrf cebbs ntnvafg grzcgngvba. Vg vf n qhgl,
gurersber, juvpu gur Tbireazrag bjrf, nf jryy gb gur vagrerfgf pbzzvggrq gb
vgf pner nf gb gur bssvpref gurzfryirf, gb cebivqr rirel thneq ntnvafg
genafterffvbaf bs guvf punenpgre gung vf pbafvfgrag jvgu ernfba naq
uhznavgl. Pbaterff pna abg or gbb wrnybhf bs gur pbaqhpg bs gubfr jub ner
vagehfgrq jvgu gur choyvp zbarl, naq V funyy ng nyy gvzrf or qvfcbfrq gb
rapbhentr n jngpushy qvfpunetr bs guvf qhgl.

Vs n zber qverpg pbbcrengvba ba gur cneg bs Pbaterff va gur fhcreivfvba bs
gur pbaqhpg bs gur bssvpref vagehfgrq jvgu gur phfgbql naq nccyvpngvba bs
gur choyvp zbarl vf qrrzrq qrfvenoyr, vg jvyy tvir zr cyrnfher gb nffvfg va
gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs nal whqvpvbhf naq pbafgvghgvbany cyna ol juvpu gung
bowrpg znl or nppbzcyvfurq. Lbh jvyy va lbhe jvfqbz qrgrezvar hcba gur
cebcevrgl bs nqbcgvat fhpu n cyna naq hcba gur zrnfherf arprffnel gb vgf
rssrpghny rkrphgvba. Jura gur yngr Onax bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jnf
vapbecbengrq naq znqr gur qrcbfvgbel bs gur choyvp zbarlf, n evtug jnf
erfreirq gb Pbaterff gb vafcrpg ng vgf cyrnfher, ol n pbzzvggrr bs gung
obql, gur obbxf naq gur cebprrqvatf bs gur onax. Va bar bs gur Fgngrf,
jubfr onaxvat vafgvghgvbaf ner fhccbfrq gb enax nzbatfg gur svefg va cbvag
bs fgnovyvgl, gurl ner fhowrpgrq gb pbafgnag rknzvangvba ol pbzzvffvbaref
nccbvagrq sbe gung checbfr, naq zhpu bs gur fhpprff bs vgf onaxvat flfgrz
vf nggevohgrq gb guvf jngpushy fhcreivfvba.

Gur fnzr pbhefr unf nyfb, va ivrj bs vgf orarsvpvny bcrengvba, orra nqbcgrq
ol na nqwbvavat Fgngr, snibenoyl xabja sbe gur pner vg unf nyjnlf orfgbjrq
hcba jungrire eryngrf gb vgf svanapvny pbapreaf. V fhozvg gb lbhe
pbafvqrengvba jurgure n pbzzvggrr bs Pbaterff zvtug abg or cebsvgnoyl
rzcyblrq va vafcrpgvat, ng fhpu vagreinyf nf zvtug or qrrzrq cebcre, gur
nssnvef naq nppbhagf bs bssvpref vagehfgrq jvgu gur phfgbql bs gur choyvp
zbarlf. Gur serdhrag cresbeznapr bs guvf qhgl zvtug or znqr boyvtngbel ba
gur pbzzvggrr va erfcrpg gb gubfr bssvpref jub unir ynetr fhzf va gurve
cbffrffvba, naq yrsg qvfpergvbanel va erfcrpg gb bguref. Gurl zvtug ercbeg
gb gur Rkrphgvir fhpu qrsnypngvbaf nf jrer sbhaq gb rkvfg, jvgu n ivrj gb n
cebzcg erzbiny sebz bssvpr hayrff gur qrsnhyg jnf fngvfsnpgbevyl nppbhagrq
sbe, naq ercbeg nyfb gb Pbaterff, ng gur pbzzraprzrag bs rnpu frffvba, gur
erfhyg bs gurve rknzvangvbaf naq cebprrqvatf. Vg qbrf nccrne gb zr gung
jvgu n fhowrpgvba bs guvf pynff bs choyvp bssvpref gb gur trareny
fhcreivfvba bs gur Rkrphgvir, gb rknzvangvbaf ol n pbzzvggrr bs Pbaterff ng
crevbqf bs juvpu gurl fubhyq unir ab cerivbhf abgvpr, naq gb cebfrphgvba
naq chavfuzrag nf sbe srybal sbe rirel oernpu bs gehfg, gur fnsr-xrrcvat bs
gur choyvp zbarlf zvtug haqre gur flfgrz cebcbfrq or cynprq ba n fhere
sbhaqngvba guna vg unf rire bpphcvrq fvapr gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs gur
Tbireazrag.

Gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel jvyy ynl orsber lbh nqqvgvbany vasbezngvba
pbagnvavat arj qrgnvyf ba guvf vagrerfgvat fhowrpg. Gb gurfr V nfx lbhe
rneyl nggragvba. Gung vg fubhyq unir tvira evfr gb terng qvirefvgl bs
bcvavba pna abg or n fhowrpg bs fhecevfr. Nsgre gur pbyyrpgvba naq phfgbql
bs gur choyvp zbarlf unq orra sbe fb znal lrnef pbaarpgrq jvgu naq znqr
fhofvqvnel gb gur nqinaprzrag bs cevingr vagrerfgf, n erghea gb gur fvzcyr
frys-qralvat beqvanaprf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba pbhyq abg ohg or qvssvphyg. Ohg
gvzr naq serr qvfphffvba, ryvpvgvat gur fragvzragf bs gur crbcyr, naq nvqrq
ol gung pbapvyvngbel fcvevg juvpu unf rire punenpgrevmrq gurve pbhefr ba
terng rzretrapvrf, jrer eryvrq hcba sbe n fngvfsnpgbel frggyrzrag bs gur
dhrfgvba. Nyernql unf guvf nagvpvcngvba, ba bar vzcbegnag cbvag ng
yrnfg--gur vzcebcevrgl bs qviregvat choyvp zbarl gb cevingr checbfrf--orra
shyyl ernyvmrq. Gurer vf ab ernfba gb fhccbfr gung yrtvfyngvba hcba gung
oenapu bs gur fhowrpg jbhyq abj or rzoneenffrq ol n qvssrerapr bs bcvavba,
be snvy gb erprvir gur pbeqvny fhccbeg bs n ynetr znwbevgl bs bhe
pbafgvghragf.

Gur pbaarpgvba juvpu sbezreyl rkvfgrq orgjrra gur Tbireazrag naq onaxf jnf
va ernyvgl vawhevbhf gb obgu, nf jryy nf gb gur trareny vagrerfgf bs gur
pbzzhavgl ng ynetr. Vg ntteningrq gur qvfnfgref bs genqr naq gur
qrenatrzragf bs pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr, naq nqzvavfgrerq arj rkpvgrzragf
naq nqqvgvbany zrnaf gb jvyq naq erpxyrff fcrphyngvbaf, gur qvfnccbvagzrag
bs juvpu guerj gur pbhagel vagb pbaihyfvbaf bs cnavp, naq nyy ohg cebqhprq
ivbyrapr naq oybbqfurq. Gur vzcehqrag rkcnafvba bs onax perqvgf, juvpu jnf
gur angheny erfhyg bs gur pbzznaq bs gur erirahrf bs gur Fgngr, sheavfurq
gur erfbheprf sbe haobhaqrq yvprafr va rirel fcrpvrf bs nqiragher, frqhprq
vaqhfgel sebz vgf erthyne naq fnyhgnel bpphcngvbaf ol gur ubcr bs nohaqnapr
jvgubhg ynobe, naq qrenatrq gur fbpvny fgngr ol grzcgvat nyy genqrf naq
cebsrffvbaf vagb gur ibegrk bs fcrphyngvba ba erzbgr pbagvatrapvrf.

Gur fnzr jvqr-fcernqvat vasyhrapr vzcrqrq nyfb gur erfbheprf bs gur
Tbireazrag, phegnvyrq vgf hfrshy bcrengvbaf, rzoneenffrq gur shysvyyzrag bs
vgf boyvtngvbaf, naq frevbhfyl vagresrerq jvgu gur rkrphgvba bs gur ynjf.
Ynetr nccebcevngvbaf naq bccerffvir gnkrf ner gur angheny pbafrdhraprf bs
fhpu n pbaarpgvba, fvapr gurl vapernfr gur cebsvgf bs gubfr jub ner nyybjrq
gb hfr gur choyvp shaqf, naq znxr vg gurve vagrerfg gung zbarl fubhyq or
npphzhyngrq naq rkcraqvgherf zhygvcyvrq. Vg vf guhf gung n pbapragengrq
zbarl cbjre vf grzcgrq gb orpbzr na npgvir ntrag va cbyvgvpny nssnvef; naq
nyy cnfg rkcrevrapr unf fubja ba juvpu fvqr gung vasyhrapr jvyy or neenlrq.
Jr qrprvir bhefryirf vs jr fhccbfr gung, vg jvyy rire or sbhaq nffregvat
naq fhccbegvat gur evtugf bs gur pbzzhavgl ng ynetr va bccbfvgvba gb gur
pynvzf bs gur srj.

Va n tbireazrag jubfr qvfgvathvfuvat punenpgrevfgvp fubhyq or n qvsshfvba
naq rdhnyvmngvba bs vgf orarsvgf naq oheqraf gur nqinagntr bs vaqvivqhnyf
jvyy or nhtzragrq ng gur rkcrafr bs gur pbzzhavgl ng ynetr. Abe vf vg gur
angher bs pbzovangvbaf sbe gur npdhvfvgvba bs yrtvfyngvir vasyhrapr gb
pbasvar gurve vagresrerapr gb gur fvatyr bowrpg sbe juvpu gurl jrer
bevtvanyyl sbezrq. Gur grzcgngvba gb rkgraq vg gb bgure znggref vf, ba gur
pbagenel, abg haserdhragyl gbb fgebat gb or erfvfgrq. Gur evtugshy
vasyhrapr va gur qverpgvba bs choyvp nssnvef bs gur znff bs gur crbcyr vf
gurersber va ab fyvtug qnatre bs orvat frafvoyl naq vawhevbhfyl nssrpgrq ol
tvivat gb n pbzcnengviryl fznyy ohg irel rssvpvrag pynff n qverpg naq
rkpyhfvir crefbany vagrerfg va fb vzcbegnag n cbegvba bs gur yrtvfyngvba bs
Pbaterff nf gung juvpu eryngrf gb gur phfgbql bs gur choyvp zbarlf. Vs ynjf
npgvat hcba cevingr vagrerfgf pna abg nyjnlf or nibvqrq, gurl fubhyq or
pbasvarq jvguva gur aneebjrfg yvzvgf, naq yrsg jurerire cbffvoyr gb gur
yrtvfyngherf bs gur Fgngrf. Jura abg guhf erfgevpgrq gurl yrnq gb
pbzovangvbaf bs cbjreshy nffbpvngvbaf, sbfgre na vasyhrapr arprffnevyl
frysvfu, naq ghea gur snve pbhefr bs yrtvfyngvba gb fvavfgre raqf engure
guna gb bowrpgf gung nqinapr choyvp yvoregl naq cebzbgr gur trareny tbbq.

Gur jubyr fhowrpg abj erfgf jvgu lbh, naq V pna abg ohg rkcerff n ubcr gung
fbzr qrsvavgr zrnfher jvyy or nqbcgrq ng gur cerfrag frffvba.

Vg jvyy abg, V nz fher, or qrrzrq bhg bs cynpr sbe zr urer gb erznex gung
gur qrpynengvba bs zl ivrjf va bccbfvgvba gb gur cbyvpl bs rzcyblvat onaxf
nf qrcbfvgbevrf bs gur Tbireazrag shaqf pna abg whfgyl or pbafgehrq nf
vaqvpngvir bs ubfgvyvgl, bssvpvny be crefbany, gb gubfr vafgvghgvbaf; be gb
ercrng va guvf sbez naq va pbaarpgvba jvgu guvf fhowrpg bcvavbaf juvpu V
unir havsbezyl ragregnvarq naq ba nyy cebcre bppnfvbaf rkcerffrq. Gubhtu
nyjnlf bccbfrq gb gurve perngvba va gur sbez bs rkpyhfvir cevivyrtrf, naq,
nf n Fgngr zntvfgengr, nvzvat ol nccebcevngr yrtvfyngvba gb frpher gur
pbzzhavgl ntnvafg gur pbafrdhraprf bs gurve bppnfvbany zvfznantrzrag, V
unir lrg rire jvfurq gb frr gurz cebgrpgrq va gur rkrepvfr bs evtugf
pbasreerq ol ynj, naq unir arire qbhogrq gurve hgvyvgl jura cebcreyl
znantrq va cebzbgvat gur vagrerfgf bs genqr, naq guebhtu gung punaary gur
bgure vagrerfgf bs gur pbzzhavgl. Gb gur Trareny Tbireazrag gurl cerfrag
gurzfryirf zreryl nf Fgngr vafgvghgvbaf, univat ab arprffnel pbaarpgvba
jvgu vgf yrtvfyngvba be vgf nqzvavfgengvba. Yvxr bgure Fgngr
rfgnoyvfuzragf, gurl znl or hfrq be abg va pbaqhpgvat gur nssnvef bs gur
Tbireazrag, nf choyvp cbyvpl naq gur trareny vagrerfgf bs gur Havba znl
frrz gb erdhver. Gur bayl fnsr be cebcre cevapvcyr hcba juvpu gurve
vagrepbhefr jvgu gur Tbireazrag pna or erthyngrq vf gung juvpu erthyngrf
gurve vagrepbhefr jvgu gur cevingr pvgvmra--gur pbasreevat bs zhghny
orarsvgf. Jura gur Tbireazrag pna nppbzcyvfu n svanapvny bcrengvba orggre
jvgu gur nvq bs gur onaxf guna jvgubhg vg, vg fubhyq or ng yvoregl gb frrx
gung nvq nf vg jbhyq gur freivprf bs n cevingr onaxre be bgure pncvgnyvfg
be ntrag, tvivat gur cersrerapr gb gubfr jub jvyy freir vg ba gur orfg
grezf. Abe pna gurer rire rkvfg na vagrerfg va gur bssvpref bs gur Trareny
Tbireazrag, nf fhpu, vaqhpvat gurz gb rzoneenff be naabl gur Fgngr onaxf
nal zber guna gb vaphe gur ubfgvyvgl bs nal bgure pynff bs Fgngr
vafgvghgvbaf be bs cevingr pvgvmraf. Vg vf abg va gur angher bs guvatf gung
ubfgvyvgl gb gurfr vafgvghgvbaf pna fcevat sebz guvf fbhepr, be nal
bccbfvgvba gb gurve pbhefr bs ohfvarff, rkprcg jura gurl gurzfryirf qrcneg
sebz gur bowrpgf bs gurve perngvba naq nggrzcg gb hfhec cbjref abg
pbasreerq hcba gurz be gb fhoireg gur fgnaqneq bs inyhr rfgnoyvfurq ol gur
Pbafgvghgvba. Juvyr bccbfvgvba gb gurve erthyne bcrengvbaf pna abg rkvfg va
guvf dhnegre, erfvfgnapr gb nal nggrzcg gb znxr gur Tbireazrag qrcraqrag
hcba gurz sbe gur fhpprffshy nqzvavfgengvba bs choyvp nssnvef vf n znggre
bs qhgl, nf V gehfg vg rire jvyy or bs vapyvangvba, ab znggre sebz jung
zbgvir be pbafvqrengvba gur nggrzcg znl bevtvangr.

Vg vf ab zber guna whfg gb gur onaxf gb fnl gung va gur yngr rzretrapl zbfg
bs gurz svezyl erfvfgrq gur fgebatrfg grzcgngvbaf gb rkgraq gurve cncre
vffhrf jura nccneragyl fhfgnvarq va n fhfcrafvba bs fcrpvr cnlzragf ol
choyvp bcvavba, rira gubhtu va fbzr pnfrf vaivgrq ol yrtvfyngvir
ranpgzragf. Gb guvf ubabenoyr pbhefr, nvqrq ol gur erfvfgnapr bs gur
Trareny Tbireazrag, npgvat va borqvrapr gb gur Pbafgvghgvba naq ynjf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, gb gur vagebqhpgvba bs na veerqrrznoyr cncre zrqvhz, znl or
nggevohgrq va n terng qrterr gur fcrrql erfgbengvba bs bhe pheerapl gb n
fbhaq fgngr naq gur ohfvarff bs gur pbhagel gb vgf jbagrq cebfcrevgl.

Gur onaxf unir ohg gb pbagvahr va gur fnzr fnsr pbhefr naq or pbagrag va
gurve nccebcevngr fcurer gb nibvq nyy vagresrerapr sebz gur Trareny
Tbireazrag naq gb qrevir sebz vg nyy gur cebgrpgvba naq orarsvgf juvpu vg
orfgbjf ba bgure Fgngr rfgnoyvfuzragf, ba gur crbcyr bs gur Fgngrf, naq ba
gur Fgngrf gurzfryirf. Va guvf, gurve gehr cbfvgvba, gurl pna abg ohg
frpher gur pbasvqrapr naq tbbq jvyy bs gur crbcyr naq gur Tbireazrag, juvpu
gurl pna bayl ybfr jura, yrncvat sebz gurve yrtvgvzngr fcurer, gurl nggrzcg
gb pbageby gur yrtvfyngvba bs gur pbhagel naq creireg gur bcrengvbaf bs gur
Tbireazrag gb gurve bja checbfrf.

Bhe rkcrevrapr haqre gur npg, cnffrq ng gur ynfg frffvba, gb tenag
cerrzcgvba evtugf gb frggyref ba gur choyvp ynaqf unf nf lrg orra gbb
yvzvgrq gb ranoyr hf gb cebabhapr jvgu fnsrgl hcba gur rssvpnpl bs vgf
cebivfvbaf gb pneel bhg gur jvfr naq yvoreny cbyvpl bs gur Tbireazrag va
gung erfcrpg. Gurer vf, ubjrire, gur orfg ernfba gb nagvpvcngr snibenoyr
erfhygf sebz vgf bcrengvba. Gur erpbzzraqngvbaf sbezreyl fhozvggrq gb lbh
va erfcrpg gb n tenqhngvba bs gur cevpr bs gur choyvp ynaqf erznva gb or
svanyyl npgrq hcba. Univat sbhaq ab ernfba gb punatr gur ivrjf gura
rkcerffrq, lbhe nggragvba gb gurz vf ntnva erfcrpgshyyl erdhrfgrq.

Rirel cebcre rkregvba unf orra znqr naq jvyy or pbagvahrq gb pneel bhg gur
jvfurf bs Pbaterff va eryngvba gb gur gbonppb genqr, nf vaqvpngrq va gur
frireny erfbyhgvbaf bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf naq gur yrtvfyngvba bs
gur gjb oenapurf. N snibenoyr vzcerffvba unf, V gehfg, orra znqr va gur
qvssrerag sbervta pbhagevrf gb juvpu cnegvphyne nggragvba unf orra
qverpgrq; naq nygubhtu jr pna abg ubcr sbe na rneyl punatr va gurve cbyvpl,
nf va znal bs gurz n pbairavrag naq ynetr erirahr vf qrevirq sebz
zbabcbyvrf va gur snoevpngvba naq fnyr bs guvf negvpyr, lrg, nf gurfr
zbabcbyvrf ner ernyyl vawhevbhf gb gur crbcyr jurer gurl ner rfgnoyvfurq,
naq gur erirahr qrevirq sebz gurz znl or yrff vawhevbhfyl naq jvgu rdhny
snpvyvgl bognvarq sebz nabgure naq n yvoreny flfgrz bs nqzvavfgengvba, jr
pna abg qbhog gung bhe rssbegf jvyy or riraghnyyl pebjarq jvgu, fhpprff vs
crefvfgrq va jvgu grzcrengr svezarff naq fhfgnvarq ol cehqrag yrtvfyngvba.

Va erpbzzraqvat gb Pbaterff gur nqbcgvba bs gur arprffnel cebivfvbaf ng
guvf frffvba sbe gnxvat gur arkg prafhf be rahzrengvba bs gur vaunovgnagf
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gur fhttrfgvba cerfragf vgfrys jurgure gur fpbcr bs
gur zrnfher zvtug abg or hfrshyyl rkgraqrq ol pnhfvat vg gb rzoenpr
nhguragvp fgngvfgvpny ergheaf bs gur terng vagrerfgf fcrpvnyyl vagehfgrq gb
be arprffnevyl nssrpgrq ol gur yrtvfyngvba bs Pbaterff.

Gur nppbzcnalvat ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne cerfragf n fngvfsnpgbel
nppbhag bs gur fgngr bs gur Nezl naq bs gur frireny oenapurf bs gur choyvp
freivpr pbasvqrq gb gur fhcrevagraqrapr bs gung bssvpre.

Gur ynj vapernfvat naq betnavmvat gur zvyvgnel rfgnoyvfuzrag bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf unf orra arneyl pneevrq vagb rssrpg, naq gur Nezl unf orra
rkgrafviryl naq hfrshyyl rzcyblrq qhevat gur cnfg frnfba.

V jbhyq ntnva pnyy gb lbhe abgvpr gur fhowrpgf pbaarpgrq jvgu naq rffragvny
gb gur zvyvgnel qrsrafrf bs gur pbhagel juvpu jrer fhozvggrq gb lbh ng gur
ynfg frffvba, ohg juvpu jrer abg npgrq hcba, nf vf fhccbfrq, sbe jnag bs
gvzr. Gur zbfg vzcbegnag bs gurz vf gur betnavmngvba bs gur zvyvgvn ba gur
znevgvzr naq vaynaq sebagvref. Guvf zrnfher vf qrrzrq vzcbegnag, nf vg vf
oryvrirq gung vg jvyy sheavfu na rssrpgvir ibyhagrre sbepr va nvq bs gur
Erthyne Nezl, naq znl sbez gur onfvf bs n trareny flfgrz bs betnavmngvba
sbe gur ragver zvyvgvn bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gur rerpgvba bs n angvbany
sbhaqel naq thacbjqre znahsnpgbel, naq bar sbe znxvat fznyy nezf, gur
ynggre gb or fvghngrq ng fbzr cbvag jrfg bs gur Nyyrtnal Zbhagnvaf, nyy
nccrne gb or bs fhssvpvrag vzcbegnapr gb or ntnva hetrq hcba lbhe
nggragvba.

Gur cyna cebcbfrq ol gur Frpergnel bs Jne sbe gur qvfgevohgvba bs gur
sbeprf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va gvzr bs crnpr vf jryy pnyphyngrq gb cebzbgr
erthynevgl naq rpbabzl va gur svfpny nqzvavfgengvba bs gur freivpr, gb
cerfreir gur qvfpvcyvar bs gur gebbcf, naq gb eraqre gurz ninvynoyr sbe gur
znvagranapr bs gur crnpr naq genadhvyyvgl bs gur Pbhagel. Jvgu guvf ivrj,
yvxrjvfr, V erpbzzraq gur nqbcgvba bs gur cyna cerfragrq ol gung bssvpre
sbe gur qrsrafr bs gur jrfgrea sebagvre. Gur cerfreingvba bs gur yvirf naq
cebcregl bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf jub ner frggyrq hcba gung obeqre pbhagel,
nf jryy nf gur rkvfgrapr bs gur Vaqvna cbchyngvba, juvpu zvtug or grzcgrq
ol bhe jnag bs cercnengvba gb ehfu ba gurve bja qrfgehpgvba naq nggnpx gur
juvgr frggyrzragf, nyy frrz gb erdhver gung guvf fhowrpg fubhyq or npgrq
hcba jvgubhg qrynl, naq gur Jne Qrcnegzrag nhgubevmrq gb cynpr gung pbhagel
va n fgngr bs pbzcyrgr qrsrafr ntnvafg nal nffnhyg sebz gur ahzrebhf naq
jneyvxr gevorf juvpu ner pbatertngrq ba gung obeqre.

Vg nssbeqf zr fvaprer cyrnfher gb or noyr gb nccevfr lbh bs gur ragver
erzbiny bs gur Purebxrr Angvba bs Vaqvnaf gb gurve arj ubzrf jrfg bs gur
Zvffvffvccv. Gur zrnfherf nhgubevmrq ol Pbaterff ng vgf ynfg frffvba, jvgu
n ivrj gb gur ybat-fgnaqvat pbagebirefl jvgu gurz, unir unq gur unccvrfg
rssrpgf. Ol na nterrzrag pbapyhqrq jvgu gurz ol gur pbzznaqvat trareny va
gung pbhagel, jub unf cresbezrq gur qhgvrf nffvtarq gb uvz ba gur bppnfvba
jvgu pbzzraqnoyr raretl naq uhznavgl, gurve erzbiny unf orra cevapvcnyyl
haqre gur pbaqhpg bs gurve bja puvrsf, naq gurl unir rzvtengrq jvgubhg nal
nccnerag eryhpgnapr.

Gur fhpprffshy nppbzcyvfuzrag bs guvf vzcbegnag bowrpg, gur erzbiny nyfb bs
gur ragver Perrx Angvba jvgu gur rkprcgvba bs n fznyy ahzore bs shtvgvirf
nzbatfg gur Frzvabyrf va Sybevqn, gur cebterff nyernql znqr gbjneq n fcrrql
pbzcyrgvba bs gur erzbiny bs gur Puvpxnfnjf, gur Pubpgnjf, gur
Cbggnjngnzvrf, gur Bggnjnf, naq gur Puvccrjnf, jvgu gur rkgrafvir chepunfrf
bs Vaqvna ynaqf qhevat gur cerfrag lrne, unir eraqrerq gur fcrrql naq
fhpprffshy erfhyg bs gur ybat-rfgnoyvfurq cbyvpl bs gur Tbireazrag hcba gur
fhowrpg bs Vaqvna nssnvef ragveryl pregnva. Gur bppnfvba vf gurersber
qrrzrq n cebcre bar gb cynpr guvf cbyvpl va fhpu n cbvag bs ivrj nf jvyy
rkbarengr gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf sebz gur haqrfreirq ercebnpu
juvpu unf orra pnfg hcba vg guebhtu frireny fhpprffvir Nqzvavfgengvbaf.
Gung n zvkrq bpphcnapl bs gur fnzr greevgbel ol gur juvgr naq erq zna vf
vapbzcngvoyr jvgu gur fnsrgl be unccvarff bs rvgure vf n cbfvgvba va
erfcrpg gb juvpu gurer unf ybat fvapr prnfrq gb or ebbz sbe n qvssrerapr bs
bcvavba. Ernfba naq rkcrevrapr unir nyvxr qrzbafgengrq vgf
vzcenpgvpnovyvgl. Gur ovggre sehvgf bs rirel nggrzcg urergbsber gb birepbzr
gur oneevref vagrecbfrq ol angher unir bayl orra qrfgehpgvba, obgu culfvpny
naq zbeny, gb gur Vaqvna, qnatrebhf pbasyvpgf bs nhgubevgl orgjrra gur
Srqreny naq Fgngr Tbireazragf, naq qrgevzrag gb gur vaqvivqhny cebfcrevgl
bs gur pvgvmra nf jryy nf gb gur trareny vzcebirzrag bs gur pbhagel. Gur
erzrqvny cbyvpl, gur cevapvcyrf bs juvpu jrer frggyrq zber guna guvegl
lrnef ntb haqre gur Nqzvavfgengvba bs Ze. Wrssrefba, pbafvfgf va na
rkgvapgvba, sbe n snve pbafvqrengvba, bs gur gvgyr gb nyy gur ynaqf fgvyy
bpphcvrq ol gur Vaqvnaf jvguva gur Fgngrf naq Greevgbevrf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf; gurve erzbiny gb n pbhagel jrfg bs gur Zvffvffvccv zhpu zber
rkgrafvir naq orggre nqncgrq gb gurve pbaqvgvba guna gung ba juvpu gurl
gura erfvqrq; gur thnenagrr gb gurz ol gur Havgrq Fgngrf bs gurve rkpyhfvir
cbffrffvba bs gung pbhagel sberire, rkrzcg sebz nyy vagehfvbaf ol juvgr
zra, jvgu nzcyr cebivfvbaf sbe gurve frphevgl ntnvafg rkgreany ivbyrapr naq
vagreany qvffrafvbaf, naq gur rkgrafvba gb gurz bs fhvgnoyr snpvyvgvrf sbe
gurve nqinaprzrag va pvivyvmngvba. Guvf unf abg orra gur cbyvpl bs
cnegvphyne Nqzvavfgengvbaf bayl, ohg bs rnpu va fhpprffvba fvapr gur svefg
nggrzcg gb pneel vg bhg haqre gung bs Ze. Zbaebr. Nyy unir ynoberq sbe vgf
nppbzcyvfuzrag, bayl jvgu qvssrerag qrterrf bs fhpprff. Gur znaare bs vgf
rkrphgvba unf, vg vf gehr, sebz gvzr gb gvzr tvira evfr gb pbasyvpgf bs
bcvavba naq hawhfg vzchgngvbaf; ohg va erfcrpg gb gur jvfqbz naq arprffvgl
bs gur cbyvpl vgfrys gurer unf abg sebz gur ortvaavat rkvfgrq n qbhog va
gur zvaq bs nal pnyz, whqvpvbhf, qvfvagrerfgrq sevraq bs gur Vaqvna enpr
npphfgbzrq gb ersyrpgvba naq rayvtugrarq ol rkcrevrapr.

Bpphclvat gur qbhoyr punenpgre bs pbagenpgbe ba vgf bja nppbhag naq
thneqvna sbe gur cnegvrf pbagenpgrq jvgu, vg jnf uneqyl gb or rkcrpgrq gung
gur qrnyvatf bs gur Srqreny Tbireazrag jvgu gur Vaqvna gevorf jbhyq rfpncr
zvfercerfragngvba. Gung gurer bppheerq vyy gur rneyl frggyrzrag bs guvf
pbhagel, nf va nyy bguref jurer gur pvivyvmrq enpr unf fhpprrqrq gb gur
cbffrffvbaf bs gur fnintr, vafgnaprf bs bccerffvba naq senhq ba gur cneg bs
gur sbezre gurer vf gbb zhpu ernfba gb oryvrir. Ab fhpu bssrafrf pna,
ubjrire, or whfgyl punetrq hcba guvf Tbireazrag fvapr vg orpnzr serr gb
chefhr vgf bja pbhefr. Vgf qrnyvatf jvgu gur Vaqvna gevorf unir orra whfg
naq sevraqyl guebhtubhg; vgf rssbegf sbe gurve pvivyvmngvba pbafgnag, naq
qverpgrq ol gur orfg srryvatf bs uhznavgl; vgf jngpushyarff va cebgrpgvat
gurz sebz vaqvivqhny senhqf haerzvggvat; vgf sbeornenapr haqre gur xrrarfg
cebibpngvbaf, gur qrrcrfg vawhevrf, naq gur zbfg syntenag bhgentrf znl
punyyratr ng yrnfg n pbzcnevfba jvgu nal angvba, napvrag be zbqrea, va
fvzvyne pvephzfgnaprf; naq vs va shgher gvzrf n cbjreshy, pvivyvmrq, naq
unccl angvba bs Vaqvnaf funyy or sbhaq gb rkvfg jvguva gur yvzvgf bs guvf
abegurea pbagvarag vg jvyy or bjvat gb gur pbafhzzngvba bs gung cbyvpl
juvpu unf orra fb hawhfgyl nffnvyrq. Bayl n irel oevrs ersrerapr gb snpgf
va pbasvezngvba bs guvf nffregvba pna va guvf sbez or tvira, naq lbh ner
gurersber arprffnevyl ersreerq gb gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne sbe
shegure qrgnvyf. Gb gur Purebxrrf, jubfr pnfr unf creuncf rkpvgrq gur
terngrfg funer bs nggragvba naq flzcngul, gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir tenagrq va
srr, jvgu n crecrghny thnenagl bs rkpyhfvir naq crnprnoyr cbffrffvba,
13,554,135 nperf bs ynaq ba gur jrfg fvqr bs gur Zvffvffvccv, ryvtvoyl
fvghngrq, va n urnygul pyvzngr, naq va nyy erfcrpgf orggre fhvgrq gb gurve
pbaqvgvba guna gur pbhagel gurl unir yrsg, va rkpunatr sbe bayl 9,492, 160
nperf ba gur rnfg fvqr bs gur fnzr evire. Gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir va
nqqvgvba fgvchyngrq gb cnl gurz $5,600,000 sbe gurve vagrerfg va naq
vzcebirzragf ba gur ynaqf guhf eryvadhvfurq, naq $1,160,000 sbe fhofvfgrapr
naq bgure orarsvpvny checbfrf, gurerol chggvat vg va gurve cbjre gb orpbzr
bar bs gur zbfg jrnygul naq vaqrcraqrag frcnengr pbzzhavgvrf bs gur fnzr
rkgrag va gur jbeyq.

Ol gur gerngvrf znqr naq engvsvrq jvgu gur Zvnzvrf, gur Puvccrjnf, gur
Fvbhk, gur Fnpf naq Sbkrf, naq gur Jvaarontbrf qhevat gur ynfg lrne gur
Vaqvna gvgyr gb 18,458,000 nperf unf orra rkgvathvfurq. Gurfr chepunfrf
unir orra zhpu zber rkgrafvir guna gubfr bs nal cerivbhf lrne, naq unir,
jvgu bgure Vaqvna rkcrafrf, obear irel urnivyl hcba gur Gernfhel. Gurl
yrnir, ubjrire, ohg n fznyy dhnagvgl bs haobhtug Vaqvna ynaqf jvguva gur
Fgngrf naq Greevgbevrf, naq gur Yrtvfyngher naq Rkrphgvir jrer rdhnyyl
frafvoyr bs gur cebcevrgl bs n svany naq zber fcrrql rkgvapgvba bs Vaqvna
gvgyrf jvguva gubfr yvzvgf. Gur gerngvrf, juvpu jrer jvgu n fvatyr
rkprcgvba znqr va chefhnapr bs cerivbhf nccebcevngvbaf sbe qrsenlvat gur
rkcrafrf, unir fhofrdhragyl orra engvsvrq ol gur Frangr, naq erprvirq gur
fnapgvba bs Pbaterff ol gur nccebcevngvbaf arprffnel gb pneel gurz vagb
rssrpg. Bs gur grezf hcba juvpu gurfr vzcbegnag artbgvngvbaf jrer pbapyhqrq
V pna fcrnx sebz qverpg xabjyrqtr, naq V srry ab qvssvphygl va nssvezvat
gung gur vagrerfg bs gur Vaqvnaf va gur rkgrafvir greevgbel rzoenprq ol
gurz vf gb or cnvq sbe ng vgf snve inyhr, naq gung ab zber snibenoyr grezf
unir orra tenagrq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf guna jbhyq unir orra ernfbanoyl
rkcrpgrq va n artbgvngvba jvgu pvivyvmrq zra shyyl pncnoyr bs nccerpvngvat
naq cebgrpgvat gurve bja evtugf. Sbe gur Vaqvna gvgyr gb 116,349,897 nperf
npdhverq fvapr gur 4gu bs Znepu, 1829, gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir cnvq
$72,560,056 va creznarag naahvgvrf, ynaqf, erfreingvbaf sbe Vaqvnaf,
rkcrafrf bs erzbiny naq fhofvfgrapr, zrepunaqvfr, zrpunavpny naq
ntevphygheny rfgnoyvfuzragf naq vzcyrzragf. Jura gur urnil rkcrafrf
vapheerq ol gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gur pvephzfgnapr gung fb ynetr n cbegvba
bs gur ragver greevgbel jvyy or sberire hafnynoyr ner pbafvqrerq, naq guvf
cevpr vf pbzcnerq jvgu gung sbe juvpu gur Havgrq Fgngrf fryy gurve bja
ynaqf, ab bar pna qbhog gung whfgvpr unf orra qbar gb gur Vaqvnaf va gurfr
chepunfrf nyfb. Pregnva vg vf gung gur genafnpgvbaf bs gur Srqreny
Tbireazrag jvgu gur Vaqvnaf unir orra havsbezyl punenpgrevmrq ol n fvaprer
naq cnenzbhag qrfver gb cebzbgr gurve jrysner; naq vg zhfg or n fbhepr bs
gur uvturfg tengvsvpngvba gb rirel sevraq gb whfgvpr naq uhznavgl gb yrnea
gung abg jvgufgnaqvat gur bofgehpgvbaf sebz gvzr gb gvzr guebja va vgf jnl
naq gur qvssvphygvrf juvpu unir nevfra sebz gur crphyvne naq vzcenpgvpnoyr
angher bs gur Vaqvna punenpgre, gur jvfr, uhznar, naq haqrivngvat cbyvpl bs
gur Tbireazrag va guvf gur zbfg qvssvphyg bs nyy bhe eryngvbaf, sbervta be
qbzrfgvp, unf ng yratgu orra whfgvsvrq gb gur jbeyq va vgf arne nccebnpu gb
n unccl naq pregnva pbafhzzngvba.

Gur pbaqvgvba bs gur gevorf juvpu bpphcl gur pbhagel frg ncneg sbe gurz va
gur Jrfg vf uvtuyl cebfcrebhf, naq rapbhentrf gur ubcr bs gurve rneyl
pvivyvmngvba. Gurl unir sbe gur zbfg cneg nonaqbarq gur uhagre fgngr naq
ghearq gurve nggragvba gb ntevphygheny chefhvgf. Nyy gubfr jub unir orra
rfgnoyvfurq sbe nal yratgu bs gvzr va gung sregvyr ertvba znvagnva
gurzfryirf ol gurve bja vaqhfgel. Gurer ner nzbat gurz genqref bs ab
vapbafvqrenoyr pncvgny, naq cynagref rkcbegvat pbggba gb fbzr rkgrag, ohg
gur terngre ahzore ner fznyy ntevphyghevfgf, yvivat va pbzsbeg hcba gur
cebqhpr bs gurve snezf. Gur erprag rzvtenagf, nygubhtu gurl unir va fbzr
vafgnaprf erzbirq eryhpgnagyl, unir ernqvyl npdhvrfprq va gurve hanibvqnoyr
qrfgval. Gurl unir sbhaq ng bapr n erpbzcrafr sbe cnfg fhssrevatf naq na
vapragvir gb vaqhfgevbhf unovgf va gur nohaqnapr naq pbzsbegf nebhaq gurz.
Gurer vf ernfba gb oryvrir gung nyy gurfr gevorf ner sevraqyl va gurve
srryvatf gbjneq gur Havgrq Fgngrf; naq vg vf gb or ubcrq gung gur
npdhvfvgvba bs vaqvivqhny jrnygu, gur chefhvgf bs ntevphygher, naq unovgf
bs vaqhfgel jvyy tenqhnyyl fhoqhr gurve jneyvxr cebcrafvgvrf naq vapyvar
gurz gb znvagnva crnpr nzbat gurzfryirf. Gb rssrpg guvf qrfvenoyr bowrpg
gur nggragvba bs Pbaterff vf fbyvpvgrq gb gur zrnfherf erpbzzraqrq ol gur
Frpergnel bs Jne sbe gurve shgher tbireazrag naq cebgrpgvba, nf jryy sebz
rnpu bgure nf sebz gur ubfgvyvgl bs gur jneyvxr gevorf nebhaq gurz naq gur
vagehfvbaf bs gur juvgrf. Gur cbyvpl bs gur Tbireazrag unf tvira gurz n
creznarag ubzr naq thnenagrrq gb gurz vgf crnprshy naq haqvfgheorq
cbffrffvba. Vg bayl erznvaf gb tvir gurz n tbireazrag naq ynjf juvpu jvyy
rapbhentr vaqhfgel naq frpher gb gurz gur erjneqf bs gurve rkregvbaf. Gur
vzcbegnapr bs fbzr sbez bs tbireazrag pna abg or gbb zhpu vafvfgrq hcba.
Gur rneyvrfg rssrpgf jvyy or gb qvzvavfu gur pnhfrf naq bppnfvbaf sbe
ubfgvyvgvrf nzbat gur gevorf, gb vafcver na vagrerfg va gur bofreinapr bs
ynjf gb juvpu gurl jvyy unir gurzfryirf nffragrq, naq gb zhygvcyl gur
frphevgvrf bs cebcregl naq gur zbgvirf sbe frys-vzcebirzrag. Vagvzngryl
pbaarpgrq jvgu guvf fhowrpg vf gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs gur zvyvgnel qrsrafrf
erpbzzraqrq ol gur Frpergnel bs Jne, juvpu unir orra nyernql ersreerq gb.
Jvgubhg gurz gur Tbireazrag jvyy or cbjreyrff gb erqrrz vgf cyrqtr bs
cebgrpgvba gb gur rzvtengvat Vaqvnaf ntnvafg gur ahzrebhf jneyvxr gevorf
gung fheebhaq gurz naq gb cebivqr sbe gur fnsrgl bs gur sebagvre frggyref
bs gur obeqrevat Fgngrf.

Gur pnfr bs gur Frzvabyrf pbafgvghgrf ng cerfrag gur bayl rkprcgvba gb gur
fhpprffshy rssbegf bs gur Tbireazrag gb erzbir gur Vaqvnaf gb gur ubzrf
nffvtarq gurz jrfg bs gur Zvffvffvccv. Sbhe uhaqerq bs guvf gevor rzvtengrq
va 1836 naq 1,500 va 1837 naq 1838, yrnivat va gur pbhagel, vg vf fhccbfrq,
nobhg 2,000 Vaqvnaf. Gur pbagvahrq gernpurebhf pbaqhpg bs gurfr crbcyr; gur
fnintr naq hacebibxrq zheqref gurl unir yngryl pbzzvggrq, ohgpurevat jubyr
snzvyvrf bs gur frggyref bs gur Greevgbel jvgubhg qvfgvapgvba bs ntr be
frk, naq znxvat gurve jnl vagb gur irel pragre naq urneg bs gur pbhagel, fb
gung ab cneg bs vg vf serr sebz gurve enintrf; gurve serdhrag nggnpxf ba
gur yvtug-ubhfrf nybat gung qnatrebhf pbnfg, naq gur oneonevgl jvgu juvpu
gurl unir zheqrerq gur cnffratref naq perjf bs fhpu irffryf nf unir orra
jerpxrq hcba gur errsf naq xrlf juvpu obeqre gur Thys, yrnir gur Tbireazrag
ab nygreangvir ohg gb pbagvahr gur zvyvgnel bcrengvbaf ntnvafg gurz hagvy
gurl ner gbgnyyl rkcryyrq sebz Sybevqn. Gurer ner bgure zbgvirf juvpu jbhyq
hetr gur Tbireazrag gb chefhr guvf pbhefr gbjneq gur Frzvabyrf. Gur Havgrq
Fgngrf unir shysvyyrq va tbbq snvgu nyy gurve gerngl fgvchyngvbaf jvgu gur
Vaqvna gevorf, naq unir va rirel bgure vafgnapr vafvfgrq hcba n yvxr
cresbeznapr bs gurve boyvtngvbaf. Gb erynk sebz guvf fnyhgnel ehyr orpnhfr
gur Frzvabyrf unir znvagnvarq gurzfryirf fb ybat va gur greevgbel gurl unq
eryvadhvfurq, naq va qrsvnapr bs gurve serdhrag naq fbyrza ratntrzragf
fgvyy pbagvahr gb jntr n ehguyrff jne ntnvafg gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jbhyq abg
bayl rivapr n jnag bs pbafgnapl ba bhe cneg, ohg or bs rivy rknzcyr va bhe
vagrepbhefr jvgu bgure gevorf. Rkcrevrapr unf fubja gung ohg yvggyr vf gb
or tnvarq ol gur znepu bs nezvrf guebhtu n pbhagel fb vagrefrpgrq jvgu
vanpprffvoyr fjnzcf naq znefurf, naq juvpu, sebz gur sngny punenpgre bs gur
pyvzngr, zhfg or nonaqbarq ng gur raq bs gur jvagre. V erpbzzraq,
gurersber, gb lbhe nggragvba gur cyna fhozvggrq ol gur Frpergnel bs Jne va
gur nppbzcnalvat ercbeg, sbe gur creznarag bpphcngvba bs gur cbegvba bs gur
Greevgbel serrq sebz gur Vaqvnaf naq gur zber rssvpvrag cebgrpgvba bs gur
crbcyr bs Sybevqn sebz gurve vauhzna jnesner.

Sebz gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil urerjvgu genafzvggrq vg jvyy
nccrne gung n ynetr cbegvba bs gur qvfcbfnoyr aniny sbepr vf rvgure
npgviryl rzcyblrq be va n fgngr bs cercnengvba sbe gur checbfrf bs
rkcrevrapr naq qvfpvcyvar naq gur cebgrpgvba bs bhe pbzzrepr. Fb rssrpghny
unf orra guvf cebgrpgvba gung fb sne nf gur vasbezngvba bs Tbireazrag
rkgraqf abg n fvatyr bhgentr unf orra nggrzcgrq ba n irffry pneelvat gur
synt bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvguva gur cerfrag lrne, va nal dhnegre, ubjrire
qvfgnag be rkcbfrq.

Gur rkcybevat rkcrqvgvba fnvyrq sebz Abesbyx ba gur 19gu bs Nhthfg ynfg,
naq vasbezngvba unf orra erprvirq bs vgf fnsr neeviny ng gur vfynaq bs
Znqrven. Gur orfg fcvevg navzngrf gur bssvpref naq perjf, naq gurer vf
rirel ernfba gb nagvpvcngr sebz vgf rssbegf erfhygf orarsvpvny gb pbzzrepr
naq ubabenoyr gb gur angvba.

Vg jvyy nyfb or frra gung ab erqhpgvba bs gur sbepr abj va pbzzvffvba vf
pbagrzcyngrq. Gur hafrggyrq fgngr bs n cbegvba bs Fbhgu Nzrevpn eraqref vg
vaqvfcrafnoyr gung bhe pbzzrepr fubhyq erprvir cebgrpgvba va gung dhnegre;
gur infg naq vapernfvat vagrerfgf rzonexrq va gur genqr bs gur Vaqvna naq
Puvan frnf, va gur junyr svfurevrf bs gur Cnpvsvp Bprna, naq va gur Thys bs
Zrkvpb erdhver rdhny nggragvba gb gurve fnsrgl, naq n fznyy fdhnqeba znl or
rzcyblrq gb terng nqinagntr ba bhe Ngynagvp pbnfg va zrrgvat fhqqra qrznaqf
sbe gur errasbeprzrag bs bgure fgngvbaf, va nvqvat zrepunag irffryf va
qvfgerff, va nssbeqvat npgvir freivpr gb na nqqvgvbany ahzore bs bssvpref,
naq va ivfvgvat gur qvssrerag cbegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, na npphengr
xabjyrqtr bs juvpu vf boivbhfyl bs gur uvturfg vzcbegnapr.

Gur nggragvba bs Pbaterff vf erfcrpgshyyl pnyyrq gb gung cbegvba bs gur
ercbeg erpbzzraqvat na vapernfr va gur ahzore bs fznyyre irffryf, naq gb
bgure fhttrfgvbaf pbagnvarq va gung qbphzrag. Gur encvq vapernfr naq jvqr
rkcnafvba bs bhe pbzzrepr, juvpu vf rirel qnl frrxvat arj nirahrf bs
cebsvgnoyr nqiragher; gur nofbyhgr arprffvgl bs n aniny sbepr sbe vgf
cebgrpgvba cerpvfryl va gur qrterr bs vgf rkgrafvba; n qhr ertneq gb gur
angvbany evtugf naq ubabe; gur erpbyyrpgvba bs vgf sbezre rkcybvgf, naq gur
nagvpvcngvba bs vgf shgher gevhzcuf jurarire bccbeghavgl cerfragf vgfrys,
juvpu jr znl evtugshyyl vaqhytr sebz gur rkcrevrapr bs gur cnfg--nyy frrz
gb cbvag gb gur Anil nf n zbfg rssvpvrag nez bs bhe angvbany qrsrafr naq n
cebcre bowrpg bs yrtvfyngvir rapbhentrzrag.

Gur cebterff naq pbaqvgvba bs gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag jvyy or frra ol
ersrerapr gb gur ercbeg bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny. Gur rkgrag bs cbfg-ebnqf
pbirerq ol znvy pbagenpgf vf fgngrq gb or 134,818 zvyrf, naq gur naahny
genafcbegngvba hcba gurz 34,580,202 zvyrf. Gur ahzore bs cbfg-bssvprf va
gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf 12,553, naq encvqyl vapernfvat. Gur tebff erirahr sbe
gur lrne raqvat ba gur 30gu qnl bs Whar ynfg jnf $4,262,145; gur nppehvat
rkcraqvgherf, $4,680,068; rkprff bs rkcraqvgherf, $417,923. Guvf unf orra
znqr hc bhg bs gur fhecyhf cerivbhfyl ba unaq. Gur pnfu ba unaq ba gur 1fg
vafgnag jnf $314,068. Gur erirahr sbe gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1838, jnf
$161,540 zber guna gung sbe gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1837. Gur rkcraqvgherf
bs gur Qrcnegzrag unq orra tenqhngrq hcba gur nagvpvcngvba bs n ynetryl
vapernfrq erirahr. N zbqrengr phegnvyzrag bs znvy freivpr pbafrdhragyl
orpnzr arprffnel, naq unf orra rssrpgrq, gb fuvryq gur Qrcnegzrag ntnvafg
gur qnatre bs rzoneenffzrag. Vgf erirahr vf abj vzcebivat, naq vg jvyy fbba
erfhzr vgf bajneq pbhefr va gur znepu bs vzcebirzrag.

Lbhe cnegvphyne nggragvba vf erdhrfgrq gb fb zhpu bs gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trarenyf ercbeg nf eryngrf gb gur genafcbegngvba bs gur znvyf
hcba envyebnqf. Gur ynjf ba gung fhowrpg qb abg frrz nqrdhngr gb frpher
gung freivpr, abj orpbzr nyzbfg rffragvny gb gur choyvp vagrerfgf, naq ng
gur fnzr gvzr cebgrpg gur Qrcnegzrag sebz pbzovangvbaf naq haernfbanoyr
qrznaqf.

Abe pna V gbb rnearfgyl erdhrfg lbhe nggragvba gb gur arprffvgl bs
cebivqvat n zber frpher ohvyqvat sbe guvf Qrcnegzrag. Gur qnatre bs
qrfgehpgvba gb juvpu vgf vzcbegnag obbxf naq cncref ner pbagvahnyyl
rkcbfrq, nf jryy sebz gur uvtuyl pbzohfgvoyr punenpgre bs gur ohvyqvat
bpphcvrq nf sebz gung bs bguref va gur ivpvavgl, pnyyf ybhqyl sbe cebzcg
npgvba.

Lbhe nggragvba vf ntnva rnearfgyl vaivgrq gb gur fhttrfgvbaf naq
erpbzzraqngvbaf fhozvggrq ng gur ynfg frffvba va erfcrpg gb gur Qvfgevpg bs
Pbyhzovn.

V srry vg zl qhgl nyfb gb oevat gb lbhe abgvpr pregnva cebprrqvatf ng ynj
juvpu unir erpragyl orra cebfrphgrq va guvf Qvfgevpg va gur anzr bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, ba gur eryngvba bs Zrffef. Fgbpxgba &nzc; Fgbxrf, bs gur Fgngr
bs Znelynaq, ntnvafg gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny, naq juvpu unir erfhygrq va gur
cnlzrag bs zbarl bhg bs gur Angvbany Gernfhel, sbe gur svefg gvzr fvapr gur
rfgnoyvfuzrag bs gur Tbireazrag, ol whqvpvny pbzchyfvba rkrepvfrq ol gur
pbzzba-ynj jevg bs znaqnzhf vffhrq ol gur pvephvg pbheg bs guvf Qvfgevpg.

Gur snpgf bs gur pnfr naq gur tebhaqf bs gur cebprrqvatf jvyy or sbhaq
shyyl fgngrq va gur ercbeg bs gur qrpvfvba, naq nal nqqvgvbany vasbezngvba
juvpu lbh znl qrfver jvyy or fhccyvrq ol gur cebcre Qrcnegzrag. Ab
vagresrerapr va gur cnegvphyne pnfr vf pbagrzcyngrq. Gur zbarl unf orra
cnvq, gur pynvzf bs gur cebfrphgbef unir orra fngvfsvrq, naq gur jubyr
fhowrpg, fb sne nf gurl ner pbaprearq, vf svanyyl qvfcbfrq bs; ohg vg vf ba
gur fhccbfvgvba gung gur pnfr znl or ertneqrq nf na nhgubevgngvir
rkcbfvgvba bs gur ynj nf vg abj fgnaqf gung V unir gubhtug vg arprffnel gb
cerfrag vg gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba.

Gur bowrpg bs gur nccyvpngvba gb gur pvephvg pbheg jnf gb pbzcry gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trareny gb pneel vagb rssrpg na njneq znqr ol gur Fbyvpvgbe bs
gur Gernfhel, haqre n fcrpvny npg bs Pbaterff sbe gur frggyrzrag bs pregnva
pynvzf bs gur eryngbef ba gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag, juvpu njneq gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trareny qrpyvarq gb rkrphgr va shyy hagvy ur fubhyq erprvir
shegure yrtvfyngvir qverpgvba ba gur fhowrpg. Vs gur qhgl vzcbfrq ba gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trareny ol gung ynj jnf gb or ertneqrq nf bar bs na bssvpvny
angher, orybatvat gb uvf bssvpr nf n oenapu bs gur rkrphgvir, gura vg vf
boivbhf gung gur pbafgvghgvbany pbzcrgrapl bs gur whqvpvnel gb qverpg naq
pbageby uvz va vgf qvfpunetr jnf arprffnevyl qenja va dhrfgvba; naq vs gur
qhgl fb vzcbfrq ba gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny jnf gb or pbafvqrerq nf zreryl
zvavfgrevny, naq abg rkrphgvir, vg lrg erznvarq gb or fubja gung gur
pvephvg pbheg bs guvf Qvfgevpg unq nhgubevgl gb vagresrer ol znaqnzhf, fhpu
n cbjre univat arire orsber orra nffregrq be pynvzrq ol gung pbheg. Jvgu n
ivrj gb gur frggyrzrag bs gurfr vzcbegnag dhrfgvbaf, gur whqtzrag bs gur
pvephvg pbheg jnf pneevrq ol n jevg bs reebe gb gur Fhcerzr Pbheg bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf. Va gur bcvavba bs gung gevohany gur qhgl vzcbfrq ba gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trareny jnf abg na bssvpvny rkrphgvir qhgl, ohg bar bs n zreryl
zvavfgrevny angher. Gur tenir pbafgvghgvbany dhrfgvbaf juvpu unq orra
qvfphffrq jrer gurersber rkpyhqrq sebz gur qrpvfvba bs gur pnfr, gur pbheg,
vaqrrq, rkcerffyl nqzvggvat gung jvgu cbjref naq qhgvrf cebcreyl orybatvat
gb gur rkrphgvir ab bgure qrcnegzrag pna vagresrer ol gur jevg bs
znaqnzhf; naq gur dhrfgvba gurersber erfbyirq vgfrys vagb guvf: Unf
Pbaterff pbasreerq hcba gur pvephvg pbheg bs guvf Qvfgevpg gur cbjre gb
vffhr fhpu n jevg gb na bssvpre bs gur Trareny Tbireazrag pbzznaqvat uvz gb
cresbez n zvavfgrevny npg? N znwbevgl bs gur pbheg unir qrpvqrq gung vg
unf, ohg unir ebhaqrq gurve qrpvfvba hcba n cebprff bs ernfbavat juvpu va
zl whqtzrag eraqref shegure yrtvfyngvir cebivfvba vaqvfcrafnoyr gb gur
choyvp vagrerfgf naq gur rdhny nqzvavfgengvba bs whfgvpr.

Vg unf ybat fvapr orra qrpvqrq ol gur Fhcerzr Pbheg gung arvgure gung
gevohany abe gur pvephvg pbhegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, uryq jvguva gur
erfcrpgvir Fgngrf, cbffrff gur cbjre va dhrfgvba; ohg vg vf abj uryq gung
guvf cbjre, qravrq gb obgu bs gurfr uvtu gevohanyf (gb gur sbezre ol gur
Pbafgvghgvba naq gb gur ynggre ol Pbaterff), unf orra ol vgf yrtvfyngvba
irfgrq va gur pvephvg pbheg bs guvf Qvfgevpg. Ab fhpu qverpg tenag bs cbjre
gb gur pvephvg pbheg bs guvf Qvfgevpg vf pynvzrq, ohg vg unf orra uryq gb
erfhyg ol arprffnel vzcyvpngvba sebz frireny frpgvbaf bs gur ynj
rfgnoyvfuvat gur pbheg. Bar bs gurfr frpgvbaf qrpynerf gung gur ynjf bs
Znelynaq, nf gurl rkvfgrq ng gur gvzr bs gur prffvba, fubhyq or va sbepr va
gung cneg bs gur Qvfgevpg prqrq ol gung Fgngr, naq ol guvf cebivfvba gur
pbzzba ynj va pvivy naq pevzvany pnfrf, nf vg cerinvyrq va Znelynaq va
1801, jnf rfgnoyvfurq va gung cneg bs gur Qvfgevpg.

Va Ratynaq gur pbheg bs xvat'f orapu--orpnhfr gur Fbirervta, jub, nppbeqvat
gb gur gurbel bs gur pbafgvghgvba, vf gur sbhagnva bs whfgvpr bevtvanyyl
fng gurer va crefba, naq vf fgvyy qrrzrq gb or cerfrag va pbafgehpgvba bs
ynj--nybar cbffrffrf gur uvtu cbjre bs vffhvat gur jevg bs znaqnzhf, abg
bayl gb vasrevbe whevfqvpgvbaf naq pbecbengvbaf, ohg nyfb gb zntvfgengrf
naq bguref, pbzznaqvat gurz va gur Xvat'f anzr gb qb jung gurve qhgl
erdhverf va pnfrf jurer gurer vf n irfgrq evtug naq ab bgure fcrpvsvp
erzrql. Vg unf orra uryq va gur pnfr ersreerq gb gung nf gur Fhcerzr Pbheg
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf ol gur Pbafgvghgvba eraqrerq vapbzcrgrag gb
rkrepvfr guvf cbjre, naq nf gur pvephvg pbheg bs guvf Qvfgevpg vf n pbheg
bs trareny whevfqvpgvba va pnfrf ng pbzzba ynj, naq gur uvturfg pbheg bs
bevtvany whevfqvpgvba va gur Qvfgevpg, gur evtug gb vffhr gur jevg bs
znaqnzhf vf vapvqrag gb vgf pbzzba-ynj cbjref. Nabgure tebhaq eryvrq hcba
gb znvagnva gur cbjre va dhrfgvba vf gung vg jnf vapyhqrq ol snve
pbafgehpgvba va gur cbjref tenagrq gb gur pvephvg pbhegf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf ol gur npg "gb cebivqr sbe gur zber pbairavrag betnavmngvba bs gur
pbhegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf," cnffrq 13gu Sroehnel, 1801; gung gur npg
rfgnoyvfuvat gur pvephvg pbheg bs guvf Qvfgevpg, cnffrq gur 27gu qnl bs
Sroehnel, 1801, pbasreerq hcba gung pbheg naq gur whqtrf gurerbs gur fnzr
cbjref nf jrer ol ynj irfgrq va gur pvephvg pbhegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq
va gur whqtrf bs gur fnvq pbhegf; gung gur ercrny bs gur svefg-zragvbarq
npg, juvpu gbbx cynpr va gur arkg lrne, qvq abg qvirfg gur pvephvg pbheg bs
guvf Qvfgevpg bs gur nhgubevgl va qvfchgr, ohg yrsg vg fgvyy pybgurq jvgu
gur cbjref bire gur fhowrpg juvpu, vg vf pbaprqrq, jrer gnxra njnl sebz gur
pvephvg pbhegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ol gur ercrny bs gur npg bs 13gu
Sroehnel, 1801.

Nqzvggvat gung gur nqbcgvba bs gur ynjf bs Znelynaq sbe n cbegvba bs guvf
Qvfgevpg pbasref ba gur pvephvg pbheg gurerbs, va gung cbegvba, gur
genafpraqrag rkgenwhqvpvny cerebtngvir cbjref bs gur pbheg bs xvat'f orapu
va Ratynaq, be gung rvgure bs gur npgf bs Pbaterff ol arprffnel vzcyvpngvba
nhgubevmrf gur sbezre pbheg gb vffhr n jevg bs znaqnzhf gb na bssvpre bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb pbzcry uvz gb cresbez n zvavfgrevny qhgl, gur
pbafrdhraprf ner va bar erfcrpg gur fnzr. Gur erfhyg va rvgure pnfr vf gung
gur bssvpref bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf fgngvbarq va qvssrerag cnegf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf ner, va erfcrpg gb gur cresbeznapr bs gurve bssvpvny qhgvrf,
fhowrpg gb qvssrerag ynjf naq n qvssrerag fhcreivfvba--gubfr va gur Fgngrf
gb bar ehyr, naq gubfr va gur Qvfgevpg bs Pbyhzovn gb nabgure naq n irel
qvssrerag bar. Va gur Qvfgevpg gurve bssvpvny pbaqhpg vf fhowrpg gb n
whqvpvny pbageby sebz juvpu va gur Fgngrf gurl ner rkrzcg.

Jungrire qvssrerapr bs bcvavba znl rkvfg nf gb gur rkcrqvrapl bs irfgvat
fhpu n cbjre va gur whqvpvnel va n flfgrz bs tbireazrag pbafgvghgrq yvxr
gung bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, nyy zhfg nterr gung gurfr qvfcnentvat
qvfpercnapvrf va gur ynj naq va gur nqzvavfgengvba bs whfgvpr bhtug abg gb
ur crezvggrq gb pbagvahr; naq nf Pbaterff nybar pna cebivqr gur erzrql, gur
fhowrpg vf hanibvqnoyl cerfragrq gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba.

Z. INA OHERA