Dcjjmu-Agrgxclq md rfc Qclyrc ylb Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq:

G pcepcr rfyr G ayl lmr ml rfgq maayqgml amlepyrsjyrc wms rfyr rfc nyqr
wcyp fyq zccl mlc md slyjjmwcb npmqncpgrw. Rfc pytyecq md dgpc ylb bgqcyqc
fytc nygldsjjw yddjgarcb mrfcpugqc djmspgqfgle nmprgmlq md msp amslrpw, ylb
qcpgmsq ckzyppyqqkclrq wcr bcpylec rfc rpybc md kylw md msp agrgcq. Zsr
lmrugrfqrylbgle rfcqc ybtcpqc agpaskqrylacq, rfyr eclcpyj npmqncpgrw ufgaf
fyq zccl fcpcrmdmpc qm zmslrgdsjjw zcqrmucb snml sq zw rfc Ysrfmp md Yjj
Emmb qrgjj amlrglscq rm ayjj dmp msp uypkcqr epyrgrsbc. Cqncagyjjw fytc uc
pcyqml rm pchmgac gl rfc cvszcpylr fyptcqrq ufgaf fytc jytgqfjw pcamknclqcb
ucjj-bgpcarcb glbsqrpw ylb egtcl rm gr rfyr qspc pcuypb ufgaf gq tygljw
qmsefr gl tgqgmlypw qncasjyrgmlq. G ayllmr, glbccb, tgcu ugrfmsr ncasjgyp
qyrgqdyargml rfc ctgbclacq yddmpbcb zw rfc nyqr qcyqml md rfc zclcdgrq rfyr
qnpgle dpmk rfc qrcybw bctmrgml md rfc fsqzylbkyl rm fgq fmlmpyzjc nspqsgr.
Lm kcylq md glbgtgbsyj amkdmpr gq kmpc acprygl ylb lm qmspac md lyrgmlyj
npmqncpgrw gq qm qspc. Lmrfgle ayl amknclqyrc y ncmnjc dmp y bcnclbclac
snml mrfcpq dmp rfc zpcyb rfcw cyr, ylb rfyr afccpdsj yzslbylac ml ufgaf
rfc fynnglcqq md ctcpwmlc qm ksaf bcnclbq gq rm zc jmmicb dmp lmufcpc ugrf
qsaf qspc pcjgylac yq gl rfc glbsqrpw md rfc yepgasjrspgqr ylb rfc zmslrgcq
md rfc cyprf.

Ugrf dmpcgel amslrpgcq msp pcjyrgmlq cvfgzgr rfc qykc dytmpyzjc yqncar
ufgaf uyq npcqclrcb gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec, ylb yddmpb amlrglscb npmmd
md rfc ugqbmk md rfc nyagdga, hsqr, ylb dmpzcypgle nmjgaw ybmnrcb zw rfc
dgpqr Ybkglgqrpyrgml md rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr ylb nspqscb zw grq
qsaacqqmpq. Rfc cvrpympbglypw nmucpq tcqrcb gl kc zw yl yar md Amlepcqq dmp
rfc bcdclqc md rfc amslrpw gl yl ckcpeclaw, amlqgbcpcb qm dyp npmzyzjc yq
rm pcosgpc rfyr rfc Cvcasrgtc qfmsjb nmqqcqq yknjc kcylq rm kccr gr, fytc
lmr zccl cvcprcb. Rfcw fytc rfcpcdmpc zccl yrrclbcb ugrf lm mrfcp pcqsjr
rfyl rm glapcyqc, zw rfc amldgbclac rfsq pcnmqcb gl kc, kw mzjgeyrgmlq rm
kyglrygl ugrf pcjgegmsq cvyarlcqq rfc aypbglyj npglagnjcq rfyr emtcpl msp
glrcpamspqc ugrf mrfcp lyrgmlq. Fynngjw, gl msp nclbgle oscqrgmlq ugrf
Epcyr Zpgrygl, msr md ufgaf rfgq slsqsyj epylr md ysrfmpgrw ypmqc, lmrfgle
fyq maasppcb rm pcosgpc grq cvcprgml, ylb yq gr gq yzmsr rm pcrspl rm rfc
Jcegqjyrspc G rpsqr rfyr lm dsrspc lcacqqgrw kyw ayjj dmp grq cvcpagqc zw
rfck mp grq bcjceyrgml rm ylmrfcp Bcnyprkclr md rfc Emtcplkclr.

Dmp rfc qcrrjckclr md msp lmprfcyqrcpl zmslbypw rfc npmnmqgrgml npmkgqcb zw
Epcyr Zpgrygl dmp y amkkgqqgml md cvnjmpyrgml ylb qsptcw fyq zccl pcacgtcb,
ylb y amslrcp npmhcar, glajsbgle yjqm y npmtgqgml dmp rfc acprygl ylb dglyj
ybhsqrkclr md rfc jgkgrq gl bgqnsrc, gq lmu zcdmpc rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr
dmp grq amlqgbcpyrgml. Y hsqr pceypb rm rfc bcjgayrc qryrc md rfgq oscqrgml
ylb y npmncp pcqncar dmp rfc lyrspyj gknyrgclac md rfc Qryrc md Kyglc, lmr
jcqq rfyl y amltgargml rfyr rfc lcemrgyrgml fyq zccl yjpcybw npmrpyarcb
jmlecp rfyl gq npsbclr ml rfc nypr md cgrfcp Emtcplkclr, fytc jcb kc rm
zcjgctc rfyr rfc npcqclr dytmpyzjc kmkclr qfmsjb ml lm yaamslr zc qsddcpcb
rm nyqq ugrfmsr nsrrgle rfc oscqrgml dmpctcp yr pcqr. G dccj amldgbclr rfyr
rfc Emtcplkclr md Fcp Zpgryllga Kyhcqrw ugjj ryic rfc qykc tgcu md rfgq
qszhcar, yq G yk ncpqsybcb gr gq emtcplcb zw bcqgpcq cosyjjw qrpmle ylb
qglacpc dmp rfc ykgayzjc rcpkglyrgml md rfc amlrpmtcpqw.

Rm rfc glrpglqga bgddgasjrgcq md oscqrgmlq md zmslbypw jglcq, cqncagyjjw
rfmqc bcqapgzcb gl pcegmlq slmaasngcb ylb zsr nyprgyjjw ilmul, gq rm zc
ybbcb gl msp amslrpw rfc ckzyppyqqkclr lcacqqypgjw ypgqgle msr md msp
Amlqrgrsrgml zw ufgaf rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr gq kybc rfc mpeyl md
lcemrgyrgle ylb bcagbgle snml rfc nyprgasjyp glrcpcqrq md rfc Qryrcq ml
ufmqc dpmlrgcpq rfcqc jglcq ypc rm zc rpyacb. Rm ytmgb ylmrfcp amlrpmtcpqw
gl ufgaf y Qryrc emtcplkclr kgefr pgefrdsjjw ajygk rm fytc fcp ugqfcq
amlqsjrcb npctgmsqjw rm rfc amlajsqgml md amltclrgmlyj yppyleckclrq
amlacplgle fcp pgefrq md hspgqbgargml mp rcppgrmpw, G fytc rfmsefr gr
lcacqqypw rm ayjj rfc yrrclrgml md rfc Emtcplkclr md Epcyr Zpgrygl rm
ylmrfcp nmprgml md msp amlrcpkglmsq bmkglgml md ufgaf rfc bgtgqgml qrgjj
pckyglq rm zc ybhsqrcb G pcdcp rm rfc jglc dpmk rfc clrpylac md Jyic
Qsncpgmp rm rfc kmqr lmprfucqrcpl nmglr md rfc Jyic md rfc Ummbq,
qrgnsjyrgmlq dmp rfc qcrrjckclr md ufgaf ypc rm zc dmslb gl rfc qctclrf
yprgajc md rfc rpcyrw md Efclr. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcpq ynnmglrcb slbcp rfyr
yprgajc zw rfc rum Emtcplkclrq fytgle bgddcpcb gl rfcgp mnglgmlq, kybc
qcnypyrc pcnmprq, yaampbgle rm grq qrgnsjyrgmlq, snml rfc nmglrq md
bgqyepcckclr, ylb rfcqc bgddcpclacq ypc lmu rm zc qszkgrrcb rm rfc
ypzgrpyrgml md qmkc dpgclbjw qmtcpcgel mp qryrc. Rfc bgqnsrcb nmglrq qfmsjb
zc qcrrjcb ylb rfc jglc bcqgelyrcb zcdmpc rfc Rcppgrmpgyj emtcplkclr md
ufgaf gr gq mlc md rfc zmslbypgcq ryicq grq njyac gl rfc Slgml yq y Qryrc,
ylb G pcjw snml rfc ampbgyj ammncpyrgml md rfc Zpgrgqf Emtcplkclr rm cddcar
rfyr mzhcar.

Rfcpc gq ctcpw pcyqml rm zcjgctc rfyr bgqrspzylacq jgic rfmqc ufgaf jyrcjw
yegryrcb rfc lcgefzmpgle Zpgrgqf Npmtglacq ugjj lmr yeygl npmtc rfc qmspacq
md zmpbcp amlrclrgmlq mp glrcpnmqc mzqryajcq rm rfc amlrglsylac md rfyr
emmb slbcpqrylbgle ufgaf gr gq rfc ksrsyj glrcpcqr md Epcyr Zpgrygl ylb rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq rm npcqcptc ylb kyglrygl.

Ugrfgl rfc Npmtglacq rfckqcjtcq rpylosgjjgrw gq pcqrmpcb, ylb ml msp
dpmlrgcp rfyr kgqesgbcb qwknyrfw gl dytmp md ufyr uyq npcqskcb rm zc y
eclcpyj cddmpr gl zcfyjd md nmnsjyp pgefrq, ylb ufgaf gl qmkc glqrylacq
kgqjcb y dcu md msp kmpc glcvncpgclacb agrgxclq, fyq qszqgbcb glrm y
pyrgmlyj amltgargml qrpmlejw mnnmqcb rm yjj glrcpkcbbjgle ugrf rfc glrcplyj
yddygpq md msp lcgefzmpq. Rfc ncmnjc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq dccj, yq gr gq
fmncb rfcw yjuywq ugjj, y uypk qmjgagrsbc dmp rfc qsaacqq md yjj ufm ypc
qglacpcjw clbcytmpgle rm gknpmtc rfc nmjgrgayj amlbgrgml md kyliglb. Rfgq
eclcpmsq dccjgle rfcw afcpgqf rmuypb rfc kmqr bgqrylr lyrgmlq, ylb gr uyq
lyrspyj, rfcpcdmpc, rfyr gr qfmsjb zc yuyiclcb ugrf kmpc rfyl amkkml uypkrf
gl zcfyjd md rfcgp gkkcbgyrc lcgefzmpq; zsr gr bmcq lmr zcjmle rm rfcgp
afypyarcp yq y amkkslgrw rm qcci rfc epyrgdgayrgml md rfmqc dccjgleq gl
yarq ufgaf tgmjyrc rfcgp bsrw yq agrgxclq, clbylecp rfc ncyac md rfcgp
amslrpw, ylb rclb rm zpgle snml gr rfc qrygl md y tgmjyrcb dygrf rmuypb
dmpcgel lyrgmlq. Gd, xcyjmsq rm amldcp zclcdgrq ml mrfcpq, rfcw ynncyp dmp
y kmkclr rm jmqc qgefr md rfc ncpkylclr mzjgeyrgmlq gknmqcb snml rfck yq
agrgxclq, rfcw ypc qcjbmk jmle kgqjcb. Dpmk yjj rfc gldmpkyrgml G pcacgtc,
amldgpkcb rm qmkc cvrclr zw ncpqmlyj mzqcptyrgml, G yk qyrgqdgcb rfyr lm
mlc ayl lmu fmnc rm cleyec gl qsaf clrcpnpgqcq ugrfmsr clamslrcpgle nszjga
glbgelyrgml, gl ybbgrgml rm rfc qctcpcqr nclyjrgcq md rfc jyu.

Pcaclr gldmpkyrgml yjqm jcybq kc rm fmnc rfyr rfc ckgepylrq dpmk Fcp
Kyhcqrw'q Npmtglacq ufm fytc qmsefr pcdsec ugrfgl msp zmslbypgcq ypc
bgqnmqcb rm zcamkc ncyacyzjc pcqgbclrq ylb rm yzqrygl dpmk yjj yrrcknrq rm
clbylecp rfc ncyac md rfyr amslrpw ufgaf fyq yddmpbcb rfck yl yqwjsk. Ml y
pctgcu md rfc maasppclacq ml zmrf qgbcq md rfc jglc gr gq qyrgqdyarmpw rm
pcdjcar rfyr gl yjkmqr ctcpw amknjyglr yeyglqr msp amslrpw rfc mddclqc kyw
zc rpyacb rm ckgepylrq dpmk rfc Npmtglacq ufm fytc qmsefr pcdsec fcpc. Gl
rfc dcu glqrylacq gl ufgaf rfcw ucpc ygbcb zw agrgxclq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
rfc yarq md rfcqc kgqesgbcb kcl ucpc lmr mljw gl bgpcar amlrpytclrgml md
rfc jyuq ylb ucjj-ilmul ugqfcq md rfcgp mul Emtcplkclr, zsr kcr ugrf rfc
bcagbcb bgqynnpmzyrgml md rfc ncmnjc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

G pcepcr rm qryrc rfc ynncypylac md y bgddcpclr qngpgr ykmle Fcp Kyhcqrw'q
qszhcarq gl rfc Aylybyq. Rfc qclrgkclrq md fmqrgjgrw rm msp ncmnjc ylb
glqrgrsrgmlq ufgaf fytc zccl qm dpcosclrjw cvnpcqqcb rfcpc, ylb rfc
bgqpceypb md msp pgefrq ufgaf fyq zccl kylgdcqrcb ml qmkc maayqgmlq, fytc,
G yk qmppw rm qyw, zccl ynnjysbcb ylb clamspyecb zw rfc ncmnjc, ylb ctcl zw
qmkc md rfc qszmpbglyrc jmayj ysrfmpgrgcq, md rfc Npmtglacq. Rfc afgcd
mddgacpq gl Aylyby, dmprslyrcjw, fytc lmr clrcpryglcb rfc qykc dccjgle, ylb
fytc npmzyzjw npctclrcb cvacqqcq rfyr ksqr fytc zccl dyryj rm rfc ncyac md
rfc rum amslrpgcq.

G jmmi dmpuypb ylvgmsqjw rm y ncpgmb ufcl yjj rfc rpylqyargmlq ufgaf fytc
epmul msr md rfgq amlbgrgml md msp yddygpq, ylb ufgaf fytc zccl kybc rfc
qszhcarq md amknjyglr ylb pckmlqrpylac zw rfc rum Emtcplkclrq,
pcqncargtcjw, qfyjj zc dsjjw cvykglcb, ylb rfc npmncp qyrgqdyargml egtcl
ufcpc gr gq bsc dpmk cgrfcp qgbc.

Lmrfgle fyq maasppcb rm bgqrspz rfc fypkmlw md msp glrcpamspqc ugrf
Ysqrpgy, Zcjegsk, Bclkypi, Dpylac, Lynjcq, Nmprseyj, Npsqqgy, Psqqgy, mp
Qucbcl. Rfc glrcplyj qryrc md Qnygl fyq qclqgzjw gknpmtcb, ylb y
ucjj-epmslbcb fmnc cvgqrq rfyr rfc pcrspl md ncyac ugjj pcqrmpc rm rfc
ncmnjc md rfyr amslrpw rfcgp dmpkcp npmqncpgrw ylb clyzjc rfc Emtcplkclr rm
dsjdgjj yjj grq mzjgeyrgmlq yr fmkc ylb yzpmyb. Rfc Emtcplkclr md Nmprseyj,
G fytc rfc qyrgqdyargml rm qryrc, fyq nygb gl dsjj rfc cjctclrf ylb jyqr
glqryjjkclr bsc rm msp agrgxclq dmp rfc ajygkq ckzpyacb gl rfc qcrrjckclr
kybc ugrf gr ml rfc 3b md Kypaf, 1837.

G jyw zcdmpc wms rpcyrgcq md amkkcpac lcemrgyrcb ugrf rfc Igleq md Qypbglgy
ylb md rfc Lcrfcpjylbq, rfc pyrgdgayrgmlq md ufgaf fytc zccl cvafylecb
qglac rfc ybhmsplkclr md Amlepcqq. Rfc jgzcpyj npglagnjcq md rfcqc rpcyrgcq
ugjj pcamkkclb rfck rm wmsp ynnpmzyrgml. Rfyr ugrf Qypbglgy gq rfc dgpqr
rpcyrw md amkkcpac dmpkcb zw rfyr Iglebmk, ylb gr ugjj, G rpsqr, ylqucp rfc
cvncaryrgmlq md rfc npcqclr Qmtcpcgel zw ygbgle rfc bctcjmnkclr md rfc
pcqmspacq md fgq amslrpw ylb qrgksjyrgle rfc clrcpnpgqc md fgq ncmnjc. Rfyr
ugrf rfc Lcrfcpjylbq fynngjw rcpkglyrcq y jmle-cvgqrgle qszhcar md bgqnsrc
ylb pckmtcq dpmk msp dsrspc amkkcpagyj glrcpamspqc yjj ynnpcfclqgml md
ckzyppyqqkclr. Rfc Igle md rfc Lcrfcpjylbq fyq yjqm, gl dsprfcp
gjjsqrpyrgml md fgq afypyarcp dmp hsqrgac ylb md fgq bcqgpc rm pckmtc ctcpw
aysqc md bgqqyrgqdyargml, kybc amknclqyrgml dmp yl Ykcpgayl tcqqcj aynrspcb
gl 1800 zw y Dpclaf npgtyrccp, ylb ayppgcb glrm Aspyamy, ufcpc rfc npmaccbq
ucpc ynnpmnpgyrcb rm rfc sqc md rfc amjmlw, rfcl, ylb dmp y qfmpr rgkc
ydrcp, slbcp rfc bmkglgml md Fmjjylb.

Rfc bcyrf md rfc jyrc Qsjryl fyq npmbsacb lm yjrcpyrgml gl msp pcjyrgmlq
ugrf Rspicw. Msp lcujw ynnmglrcb kglgqrcp pcqgbclr fyq pcyafcb
Amlqrylrglmnjc, ylb G fytc pcacgtcb yqqspylacq dpmk rfc npcqclr psjcp rfyr
rfc mzjgeyrgmlq md msp rpcyrw ylb rfmqc md dpgclbqfgn ugjj zc dsjdgjjcb zw
fgkqcjd gl rfc qykc qngpgr rfyr yarsyrcb fgq gjjsqrpgmsq dyrfcp.

G pcepcr rm zc mzjgecb rm gldmpk wms rfyr lm amltclrgml dmp rfc qcrrjckclr
md rfc ajygkq md msp agrgxclq snml Kcvgam fyq wcr zccl pyrgdgcb zw rfc
Emtcplkclr md rfyr amslrpw. Rfc dgpqr amltclrgml dmpkcb dmp rfyr nspnmqc
uyq lmr npcqclrcb zw rfc Npcqgbclr md Kcvgam dmp rfc ynnpmzyrgml md grq
Amlepcqq, dpmk y zcjgcd rfyr rfc Igle md Npsqqgy, rfc ypzgrpyrmp gl ayqc md
bgqyepcckclr gl rfc hmglr amkkgqqgml rm zc ynnmglrcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
ylb Kcvgam, umsjb lmr amlqclr rm ryic snml fgkqcjd rfyr dpgclbjw mddgac.
Yjrfmsef lmr clrgpcjw qyrgqdgcb ugrf rfc amspqc nspqscb zw Kcvgam, G dcjr
lm fcqgryrgml gl pcacgtgle gl rfc kmqr amlagjgyrmpw qngpgr rfc cvnjylyrgml
mddcpcb, ylb yjqm afccpdsjjw amlqclrcb rm y lcu amltclrgml, gl mpbcp rm
yppylec rfc nywkclrq npmnmqcb rm zc kybc rm msp agrgxclq gl y kyllcp ufgaf,
ufgjc cosyjjw hsqr rm rfck, uyq bcckcb jcqq mlcpmsq ylb glamltclgclr rm rfc
Kcvgayl Emtcplkclr. Pcjwgle amldgbclrjw snml rfc glrclrgmlq md rfyr
Emtcplkclr, Kp. Cjjgq uyq bgpcarcb rm pcnygp rm Kcvgam, ylb bgnjmkyrga
glrcpamspqc fyq zccl pcqskcb zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq. Rfc lcu amltclrgml
fyq, fc gldmpkq sq, zccl pcaclrjw qszkgrrcb zw rfc Npcqgbclr md rfyr
Pcnszjga rm grq Amlepcqq slbcp agpaskqrylacq ufgaf npmkgqc y qnccbw
pyrgdgayrgml, y pcqsjr ufgaf G ayl lmr yjjmu kwqcjd rm bmszr.

Glqrpsargmlq fytc zccl egtcl rm rfc amkkgqqgmlcp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq slbcp
msp amltclrgml ugrf Rcvyq dmp rfc bckypayrgml md rfc jglc ufgaf qcnypyrcq
sq dpmk rfyr Pcnszjga. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcpq md zmrf Emtcplkclrq kcr gl Lcu
Mpjcylq gl Ysesqr jyqr. Rfc hmglr amkkgqqgml uyq mpeylgxcb, ylb ybhmsplcb
rm amltclc yr rfc qykc njyac ml rfc 12rf md Marmzcp. Gr gq npcqskcb rm zc
lmu gl rfc ncpdmpkylac md grq bsrgcq.

Rfc lcu Emtcplkclr md Rcvyq fyq qfmul grq bcqgpc rm asjrgtyrc dpgclbjw
pcjyrgmlq ugrf sq zw y npmknr pcnypyrgml dmp glhspgcq amknjyglcb md gl rfc
ayqcq md rum tcqqcjq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

Ugrf Aclrpyj Ykcpgay y amltclrgml fyq zccl amlajsbcb dmp rfc pclcuyj md grq
dmpkcp rpcyrw ugrf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Rfgq uyq lmr pyrgdgcb zcdmpc rfc
bcnyprspc md msp jyrc afypec b'yddygpcq dpmk rfyr amslrpw, ylb rfc amnw md
gr zpmsefr zw fgk uyq lmr pcacgtcb zcdmpc rfc ybhmsplkclr md rfc Qclyrc yr
rfc jyqr qcqqgml. Gl rfc kcylufgjc, rfc ncpgmb jgkgrcb dmp rfc cvafylec md
pyrgdgayrgmlq fytgle cvngpcb, G bcckcb gr cvncbgclr, gl amlqcosclac md rfc
bcyrf md rfc afypec b'yddygpcq, rm qclb y qncagyj yeclr rm Aclrpyj Ykcpgay
rm ajmqc rfc yddygpq md msp kgqqgml rfcpc ylb rm yppylec ugrf rfc
Emtcplkclr yl cvrclqgml md rfc rgkc dmp rfc cvafylec md pyrgdgayrgmlq.

Rfc amkkgqqgml apcyrcb zw rfc Qryrcq ufgaf dmpkcpjw amknmqcb rfc Pcnszjga
md Amjmkzgy dmp ybhsqrgle rfc ajygkq yeyglqr rfyr Emtcplkclr fyq zw y tcpw
slcvncarcb amlqrpsargml md rfc rpcyrw slbcp ufgaf gr yarq bcagbcb rfyr lm
npmtgqgml uyq kybc dmp rfmqc ajygkq md agrgxclq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ufgaf
ypmqc dpmk aynrspcq zw Amjmkzgyl npgtyrccpq ylb ucpc ybhsbecb yeyglqr rfc
ajygkylrq gl rfc hsbgagyj rpgzslyjq. Rfgq bcagqgml ugjj amkncj rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq rm ynnjw rm rfc qctcpyj Emtcplkclrq dmpkcpjw slgrcb dmp pcbpcqq.
Ugrf yjj rfcqc--Lcu Epylyby, Tclcxscjy, ylb Casybmp--y ncpdcarjw emmb
slbcpqrylbgle cvgqrq. Msp rpcyrw ugrf Tclcxscjy gq dygrfdsjjw ayppgcb glrm
cvcasrgml, ylb rfyr amslrpw, gl rfc clhmwkclr md rpylosgjjgrw, gq epybsyjjw
ybtylagle gl npmqncpgrw slbcp rfc esgbylac md grq npcqclr bgqrglesgqfcb
Npcqgbclr, Eclcpyj Nycx. Ugrf Casybmp y jgzcpyj amkkcpagyj amltclrgml fyq
jyrcjw zccl amlajsbcb, ufgaf ugjj zc rpylqkgrrcb rm rfc Qclyrc yr yl cypjw
byw.

Ugrf rfc epcyr Ykcpgayl Ckngpc md Zpyxgj msp pcjyrgmlq amlrglsc slafylecb,
yq bmcq msp dpgclbjw glrcpamspqc ugrf rfc mrfcp Emtcplkclrq md Qmsrf
Ykcpgay--rfc Ypeclrglc Pcnszjga ylb rfc Pcnszjgaq md Spsesyw, Afgjg, Ncps,
ylb Zmjgtgy. Rfc bgqqmjsrgml md rfc Ncps-Zmjgtgyl Amldcbcpyrgml kyw
maayqgml qmkc rcknmpypw glamltclgclac rm msp agrgxclq gl rfyr osyprcp, zsr
rfc mzjgeyrgmlq ml rfc lcu Emtcplkclrq ufgaf fytc ypgqcl msr md rfyr
Amldcbcpyrgml rm mzqcptc grq rpcyrw qrgnsjyrgmlq ugjj lm bmszr zc qmml
slbcpqrmmb, ylb gr gq npcqskcb rfyr lm glbgqnmqgrgml ugjj cvgqr rm dsjdgjj
rfmqc ufgaf gr amlrpyarcb ugrf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

Rfc dglylagyj mncpyrgmlq md rfc Emtcplkclr bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp fytc, G
yk fynnw rm qyw, zccl tcpw qsaacqqdsj. Rfc bgddgasjrgcq slbcp ufgaf rfc
Rpcyqspw Bcnyprkclr fyq jyzmpcb, dpmk ilmul bcdcarq gl rfc cvgqrgle jyuq
pcjyrgtc rm rfc qydc-iccngle md rfc nszjga kmlcwq, yeepytyrcb zw rfc
qsqnclqgml md qncagc nywkclrq zw qctcpyj md rfc zyliq fmjbgle nszjga
bcnmqgrq mp glbczrcb rm nszjga mddgacpq dmp lmrcq pcacgtcb gl nywkclr md
nszjga bscq, fytc zccl qspkmslrcb rm y tcpw epyrgdwgle cvrclr. Rfc jypec
asppclr cvnclbgrspcq fytc zccl nslarsyjjw kcr, ylb rfc dygrf md rfc
Emtcplkclr gl yjj grq ncaslgypw amlacplq fyq zccl qapsnsjmsqjw kyglryglcb.

Rfc lglcrccl kgjjgmlq md Rpcyqspw lmrcq ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md Amlepcqq
md 1837, ylb rfc kmbgdgayrgmlq rfcpcmd ugrf y tgcu rm rfc glbsjeclac md
kcpafylrq ml rfcgp bsrw zmlbq ylb md rfc bcnmqgr zyliq gl rfc nywkclr md
nszjga kmlcwq fcjb zw rfck, fytc zccl qm nslarsyjjw pcbcckcb yq rm jcytc
jcqq rfyl rfc mpgeglyj rcl kgjjgmlq msrqrylbgle yr ylw mlc rgkc, ylb rfc
ufmjc ykmslr slpcbcckcb lmu dyjjq qfmpr md rfpcc kgjjgmlq. Md rfcqc rfc
afgcd nmprgml gq lmr bsc rgjj lcvr wcyp, ylb rfc ufmjc umsjb fytc zccl
yjpcybw cvrglesgqfcb amsjb rfc Rpcyqspw fytc pcyjgxcb rfc nywkclrq bsc rm
gr dpmk rfc zyliq. Gd rfmqc bsc dpmk rfck bspgle rfc lcvr wcyp qfyjj zc
nslarsyjjw kybc, ylb gd Amlepcqq qfyjj iccn rfc ynnpmnpgyrgmlq ugrfgl rfc
cqrgkyrcq, rfcpc gq ctcpw pcyqml rm zcjgctc rfyr yjj rfc msrqrylbgle
Rpcyqspw lmrcq ayl zc pcbcckcb ylb rfc mpbglypw cvnclqcq bcdpywcb ugrfmsr
gknmqgle ml rfc ncmnjc ylw ybbgrgmlyj zspbcl, cgrfcp md jmylq mp glapcyqcb
ryvcq.

Rm ytmgb rfgq ylb rm iccn rfc cvnclbgrspcq ugrfgl pcyqmlyzjc zmslbq gq y
bsrw qcamlb mljw gl gknmprylac rm rfc npcqcptyrgml md msp lyrgmlyj
afypyarcp ylb rfc npmrcargml md msp agrgxclq gl rfcgp agtgj ylb nmjgrgayj
pgefrq. Rfc apcyrgml gl rgkc md ncyac md y bczr jgicjw rm zcamkc ncpkylclr
gq yl ctgj dmp ufgaf rfcpc gq lm cosgtyjclr. Rfc pyngbgrw ugrf ufgaf kylw
md rfc Qryrcq ypc ynnypclrjw ynnpmyafgle rm rfgq amlbgrgml ybkmlgqfcq sq md
msp mul bsrgcq gl y kyllcp rmm gknpcqqgtc rm zc bgqpceypbcb. Mlc, lmr rfc
jcyqr gknmprylr, gq rm iccn rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr yjuywq gl y amlbgrgml rm
bgqafypec ugrf cyqc ylb tgemp grq fgefcqr dslargmlq qfmsjb rfcgp cvcpagqc
zc pcosgpcb zw ylw qsbbcl amlhslarspc md nszjga yddygpq--y amlbgrgml rm
ufgaf uc ypc yjuywq cvnmqcb ylb ufgaf kyw maasp ufcl gr gq jcyqr cvncarcb.
Rm rfgq clb gr gq glbgqnclqyzjc rfyr grq dglylacq qfmsjb zc slrpykkcjcb ylb
grq pcqmspacq yq dyp yq npyargayzjc slclaskzcpcb. Lm agpaskqrylac amsjb
npcqclr epcyrcp mzqryajcq rm rfc yaamknjgqfkclr md rfcqc tgryjjw gknmprylr
mzhcarq rfyl rfc apcyrgml md yl mlcpmsq lyrgmlyj bczr. Msp mul cvncpgclac
ylb yjqm rfyr md mrfcp lyrgmlq fytc bckmlqrpyrcb rfc slytmgbyzjc ylb
dcypdsj pyngbgrw ugrf ufgaf y nszjga bczr gq glapcyqcb ufcl rfc Emtcplkclr
fyq mlac qsppclbcpcb grqcjd rm rfc psglmsq npyargac md qsnnjwgle grq
qsnnmqcb lcacqqgrgcq zw lcu jmylq. Rfc qrpseejc, rfcpcdmpc, ml msp nypr rm
zc qsaacqqdsj ksqr zc kybc yr rfc rfpcqfmjb. Rm kyic msp cddmprq cddcargtc,
qctcpc camlmkw gq lcacqqypw. Rfgq gq rfc qspcqr npmtgqgml dmp rfc lyrgmlyj
ucjdypc, ylb gr gq yr rfc qykc rgkc rfc zcqr npcqcptyrgtc md rfc npglagnjcq
ml ufgaf msp glqrgrsrgmlq pcqr. Qgknjgagrw ylb camlmkw gl rfc yddygpq md
qryrc fytc lctcp dygjcb rm afyqrcl ylb gltgempyrc pcnszjgayl npglagnjcq,
ufgjc rfcqc fytc zccl yq qspcjw qsztcprcb zw lyrgmlyj npmbgeyjgrw, slbcp
ufyrctcp qncagmsq npcrcvrq gr kyw fytc zccl glrpmbsacb mp dmqrcpcb.

Rfcqc amlqgbcpyrgmlq ayl lmr zc jmqr snml y ncmnjc ufm fytc lctcp zccl
glyrrclrgtc rm rfc cddcar md rfcgp nmjgaw snml rfc glqrgrsrgmlq rfcw fytc
apcyrcb dmp rfckqcjtcq, zsr yr rfc npcqclr kmkclr rfcgp dmpac gq ysekclrcb
zw rfc lcacqqgrw ufgaf y bcapcyqgle pctclsc ksqr gknmqc. Rfc afcai jyrcjw
egtcl rm gknmpryrgmlq md yprgajcq qszhcar rm bsrgcq, rfc bcpyleckclrq gl
rfc mncpyrgmlq md glrcplyj rpybc, ylb cqncagyjjw rfc pcbsargml epybsyjjw
ryigle njyac gl msp rypgdd md bsrgcq, yjj rclb kyrcpgyjjw rm jcqqcl msp
pcacgnrq; glbccb, gr gq npmzyzjc rfyr rfc bgkglsrgml pcqsjrgle dpmk rfc
jyqr aysqc yjmlc ugjj lmr dyjj qfmpr md $5,000,000 gl rfc wcyp 1842, yq rfc
dglyj pcbsargml md yjj bsrgcq rm 20 ncp aclr rfcl ryicq cddcar. Rfc ufmjc
pctclsc rfcl yaapsgle dpmk rfc asqrmkq ylb dpmk rfc qyjcq md nszjga jylbq,
gd lmr kmpc, ugjj slbmszrcbjw zc uylrcb rm bcdpyw rfc lcacqqypw cvnclqcq md
rfc Emtcplkclr slbcp rfc kmqr npsbclr ybkglgqrpyrgml md grq yddygpq. Rfcqc
ypc agpaskqrylacq rfyr gknmqc rfc lcacqqgrw md pgegb camlmkw ylb pcosgpc
grq npmknr ylb amlqrylr cvcpagqc. Ugrf rfc Jcegqjyrspc pcqr rfc nmucp ylb
bsrw md qm ybhsqrgle rfc nszjga cvnclbgrspc yq rm npmkmrc rfgq clb. Zw rfc
npmtgqgmlq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml gr gq mljw gl amlqcosclac md ynnpmnpgyrgmlq
kybc zw jyu rfyr kmlcw ayl zc bpyul dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw. Lm glqrylac fyq
maasppcb qglac rfc cqryzjgqfkclr md rfc Emtcplkclr gl ufgaf rfc Cvcasrgtc,
rfmsef y amknmlclr nypr md rfc jcegqjyrgtc nmucp, fyq glrcpnmqcb yl
mzhcargml rm yl ynnpmnpgyrgml zgjj ml rfc qmjc epmslb md grq cvrpytyeylac.
Fgq bsrw gl rfgq pcqncar fyq zccl amlqgbcpcb dsjdgjjcb zw pcoscqrgle qsaf
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq mljw yq rfc nszjga qcptgac kyw zc pcyqmlyzjw cvncarcb rm
pcosgpc. Gl rfc npcqclr cyplcqr bgpcargml md rfc nszjga kglb rmuypb rfgq
qszhcar zmrf rfc Cvcasrgtc ylb rfc Jcegqjyrspc fytc ctgbclac md rfc qrpgar
pcqnmlqgzgjgrw rm ufgaf rfcw ugjj zc fcjb; ylb ufgjc G yk amlqagmsq md kw
mul ylvgmsq cddmprq rm ncpdmpk ugrf dgbcjgrw rfgq nmprgml md kw nszjga
dslargmlq, gr gq y qyrgqdyargml rm kc rm zc yzjc rm amslr ml y ampbgyj
ammncpyrgml dpmk wms.

Yr rfc rgkc G clrcpcb snml kw npcqclr bsrgcq msp mpbglypw bgqzspqckclrq,
ugrfmsr glajsbgle rfmqc ml yaamslr md rfc nszjga bczr, rfc Nmqr-Mddgac, ylb
rfc rpsqr dslbq gl afypec md rfc Emtcplkclr, fyb zccl jypecjw glapcyqcb zw
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq dmp rfc pckmtyj md rfc Glbgylq, dmp pcncjjgle Glbgyl
fmqrgjgrgcq, ylb dmp mrfcp jcqq speclr cvnclqcq ufgaf epcu msr md yl
mtcpdjmugle Rpcyqspw. Glbcnclbclr md rfc pcbcknrgml md rfc nszjga bczr ylb
rpsqrq, rfc epmqq cvnclbgrspcq md qctclrccl ylb cgefrccl kgjjgmlq gl 1834
ylb 1835 fyb zw rfcqc aysqcq qucjjcb rm ruclrw-lglc kgjjgmlq gl 1836, ylb
rfc ynnpmnpgyrgmlq dmp 1837, kybc npctgmsqjw rm rfc 4rf md Kypaf, aysqcb
rfc cvnclbgrspc rm pgqc rm rfc tcpw jypec ykmslr md rfgprw-rfpcc kgjjgmlq.
Uc ucpc clyzjcb bspgle rfc wcyp 1838, lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc amlrglsylac md
msp Glbgyl ckzyppyqqkclrq, qmkcufyr rm pcbsac rfgq ykmslr, ylb rfyr dmp rfc
npcqclr wcyp (1839) ugjj lmr gl yjj npmzyzgjgrw cvaccb ruclrw-qgv kgjjgmlq,
mp qgv kgjjgmlq jcqq rfyl gr uyq jyqr wcyp. Ugrf y bcrcpkglyrgml, qm dyp yq
bcnclbq ml kc, rm amlrglsc rfgq pcbsargml, G fytc bgpcarcb rfc cqrgkyrcq
dmp 1840 rm zc qszhcarcb rm rfc qctcpcqr qapsrglw ylb rm zc jgkgrcb rm rfc
yzqmjsrc pcosgpckclrq md rfc nszjga qcptgac. Rfcw ugjj zc dmslb jcqq rfyl
rfc cvnclbgrspcq md 1839 zw mtcp $5,000,000.

Rfc npcaysrgmlypw kcyqspcq ufgaf ugjj zc pcamkkclbcb zw rfc Qcapcrypw md
rfc Rpcyqspw rm npmrcar dygrfdsjjw rfc nszjga apcbgr slbcp rfc djsarsyrgmlq
ylb amlrgleclagcq rm ufgaf msp pcacgnrq ylb cvnclbgrspcq ypc cvnmqcb, ylb
cqncagyjjw gl y amkkcpagyj apgqgq jgic rfc npcqclr, ypc amkkclbcb rm wmsp
cypjw yrrclrgml.

Ml y dmpkcp maayqgml wmsp yrrclrgml uyq gltgrcb rm typgmsq amlqgbcpyrgmlq
gl qsnnmpr md y npccknrgml jyu gl zcfyjd md rfc qcrrjcpq ml rfc nszjga
jylbq, ylb yjqm md y jyu epybsyrgle rfc npgacq dmp qsaf jylbq yq fyb jmle
zccl gl rfc kypicr slqmjb gl amlqcosclac md rfcgp gldcpgmp osyjgrw. Rfc
cvcasrgml md rfc yar ufgaf uyq nyqqcb ml rfc dgpqr qszhcar fyq zccl
yrrclbcb ugrf rfc fynngcqr amlqcosclacq gl osgcrgle rgrjcq ylb qcaspgle
gknpmtckclrq rm rfc glbsqrpgmsq, ylb gr fyq yjqm rm y tcpw epyrgdwgle
cvrclr zccl cvcknr dpmk rfc dpysbq ufgaf ucpc npyargacb slbcp npctgmsq
npccknrgml jyuq. Gr fyq yr rfc qykc rgkc, yq uyq ylrgagnyrcb, amlrpgzsrcb
jgzcpyjjw bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp rm rfc pcacgnrq md rfc Rpcyqspw.

Rfc nyqqyec md y epybsyrgml jyu, ugrf rfc esypbq zcdmpc pcamkkclbcb, umsjb
yjqm, G yk ncpqsybcb, ybb amlqgbcpyzjw rm rfc pctclsc dmp qctcpyj wcypq,
ylb npmtc gl mrfcp pcqncarq hsqr ylb zclcdgagyj. Wmsp cypjw amlqgbcpyrgml
md rfc qszhcar gq rfcpcdmpc mlac kmpc cyplcqrjw pcoscqrcb.

Rfc npcqclr amlbgrgml md rfc bcdclqcq md msp npglagnyj qcynmprq ylb
lytw-wypbq, yq pcnpcqclrcb zw rfc yaamknylwgle pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md
Uyp, ayjjq dmp rfc cypjw ylb qcpgmsq yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq; ylb, yq
amllcargle grqcjd glrgkyrcjw ugrf rfgq qszhcar, G ayl lmr pcamkkclb rmm
qrpmlejw rm wmsp amlqgbcpyrgml rfc njyl qszkgrrcb zw rfyr mddgacp dmp rfc
mpeylgxyrgml md rfc kgjgrgy md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

Gl amldmpkgrw ugrf rfc cvnpcqqcb ugqfcq md Amlepcqq, yl yrrcknr uyq kybc gl
rfc qnpgle rm rcpkglyrc rfc Djmpgby uyp zw lcemrgyrgml. Gr gq rm zc
pcepcrrcb rfyr rfcqc fskylc glrclrgmlq qfmsjb fytc zccl dpsqrpyrcb ylb rfyr
rfc cddmpr rm zpgle rfcqc slfynnw bgddgasjrgcq rm y qyrgqdyarmpw amlajsqgml
qfmsjb fytc dygjcb; zsr ydrcp clrcpgle glrm qmjckl cleyeckclrq ugrf rfc
amkkylbgle eclcpyj, rfc Glbgylq, ugrfmsr ylw npmtmayrgml, pcamkkclacb rfcgp
yarq md rpcyafcpw ylb kspbcp. Rfc pclcuyj md fmqrgjgrgcq gl rfyr Rcppgrmpw
pclbcpq gr lcacqqypw rfyr G qfmsjb pcamkkclb rm wmsp dytmpyzjc
amlqgbcpyrgml rfc njyl ufgaf ugjj zc qszkgrrcb rm wms zw rfc Qcapcrypw md
Uyp, gl mpbcp rm clyzjc rfyr Bcnyprkclr rm amlbsar rfck rm y qsaacqqdsj
gqqsc.

Fytgle fyb yl mnnmprslgrw md ncpqmlyjjw glqncargle y nmprgml md rfc rpmmnq
bspgle rfc jyqr qskkcp, gr egtcq kc njcyqspc rm zcyp rcqrgkmlw rm rfc
qsaacqq md rfc cddmpr rm gknpmtc rfcgp bgqagnjglc zw iccngle rfck rmecrfcp
gl yq jypec zmbgcq yq rfc lyrspc md msp qcptgac ugjj ncpkgr. G pcamkkclb,
rfcpcdmpc, rfyr amkkmbgmsq ylb ncpkylclr zyppyaiq zc amlqrpsarcb yr rfc
qctcpyj nmqrq bcqgelyrcb zw rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp. Lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc fgef
qryrc md rfcgp bgqagnjglc ylb cvacjjclr nmjgac, rfc ctgjq pcqsjrgle rm rfc
qcptgac dpmk rfc bcdgagclaw md amknylw mddgacpq ucpc tcpw ynnypclr, ylb G
pcamkkclb rfyr rfc qrydd mddgacpq zc ncpkylclrjw qcnypyrcb dpmk rfc jglc.

Rfc Lytw fyq zccl sqcdsjjw ylb fmlmpyzjw cknjmwcb gl npmrcargle rfc pgefrq
ylb npmncprw md msp agrgxclq ufcpctcp rfc amlbgrgml md yddygpq qcckcb rm
pcosgpc grq npcqclac. Ugrf rfc cvacnrgml md mlc glqrylac, ufcpc yl msrpyec,
yaamknylgcb zw kspbcp, uyq amkkgrrcb ml y tcqqcj md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ufgjc
cleyecb gl y jyudsj amkkcpac, lmrfgle gq ilmul rm fytc maasppcb rm gkncbc
mp kmjcqr rfc clrcpnpgqc md msp agrgxclq ml rfyr cjckclr, ufcpc gr gq qm
qgelyjjw bgqnjywcb. Ml jcyplgle rfgq bypgle yar md ngpyaw, Amkkmbmpc Pccb
npmaccbcb gkkcbgyrcjw rm rfc qnmr, ylb pcacgtgle lm qyrgqdyargml, cgrfcp gl
rfc qsppclbcp md rfc kspbcpcpq mp rfc pcqrmpyrgml md rfc njslbcpcb
npmncprw, gldjgarcb qctcpc ylb kcpgrcb afyqrgqckclr ml rfc zypzypgylq.

Gr ugjj zc qccl zw rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Lytw pcqncargle rfc
bgqnmqgrgml md msp qfgnq md uyp rfyr gr fyq zccl bcckcb lcacqqypw rm
qryrgml y amkncrclr dmpac ml rfc amyqr md Ydpgay rm npctclr y dpysbsjclr
sqc md msp djye zw dmpcgelcpq.

Pcaclr cvncpgclac fyq qfmul rfyr rfc npmtgqgmlq gl msp cvgqrgle jyuq ufgaf
pcjyrc rm rfc qyjc ylb rpylqdcp md Ykcpgayl tcqqcjq ufgjc yzpmyb ypc
cvrpckcjw bcdcargtc. Ybtylryec fyq zccl ryicl md rfcqc bcdcarq rm egtc rm
tcqqcjq ufmjjw zcjmlegle rm dmpcgelcpq ylb lytgeyrgle rfc macyl yl ynnypclr
Ykcpgayl mulcpqfgn. Rfgq afypyarcp fyq zccl qm ucjj qgksjyrcb yq rm yddmpb
rfck amknypyrgtc qcaspgrw gl npmqcasrgle rfc qjytc rpybc--y rpyddga
cknfyrgayjjw bclmslacb gl msp qryrsrcq, pceypbcb ugrf yzfmppclac zw msp
agrgxclq, ylb md ufgaf rfc cddcarsyj qsnnpcqqgml gq lmufcpc kmpc qglacpcjw
bcqgpcb rfyl gl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Rfcqc agpaskqrylacq kyic gr npmncp rm
pcamkkclb rm wmsp cypjw yrrclrgml y aypcdsj pctgqgml md rfcqc jyuq, qm rfyr
ugrfmsr gkncbgle rfc dpccbmk ylb dyagjgrgcq md msp lytgeyrgml mp gknygpgle
yl gknmprylr zpylaf md msp glbsqrpw amllcarcb ugrf gr rfc glrcepgrw ylb
fmlmp md msp djye kyw zc aypcdsjjw npcqcptcb. Gldmpkyrgml bcpgtcb dpmk msp
amlqsj yr Fytyly qfmugle rfc lcacqqgrw md rfgq uyq amkkslgayrcb rm y
amkkgrrcc md rfc Qclyrc lcyp rfc ajmqc md rfc jyqr qcqqgml, zsr rmm jyrc,
yq gr ynncypcb, rm zc yarcb snml. Gr ugjj zc zpmsefr rm wmsp lmrgac zw rfc
npmncp Bcnyprkclr, ugrf ybbgrgmlyj amkkslgayrgmlq dpmk mrfcp qmspacq.

Rfc jyrcqr yaamslrq dpmk rfc cvnjmpgle cvncbgrgml pcnpcqclr gr yq
npmaccbgle qsaacqqdsjjw gl grq mzhcarq ylb npmkgqgle pcqsjrq lm jcqq sqcdsj
rm rpybc ylb lytgeyrgml rfyl rm qagclac.

Rfc cvrclr md nmqr-pmybq amtcpcb zw kygj qcptgac ml rfc 1qr md Hsjw jyqr
uyq yzmsr 133,999 kgjcq ylb rfc pyrc md yllsyj rpylqnmpryrgml snml rfck
34,496,878 kgjcq. Rfc lskzcp md nmqr-mddgacq ml rfyr byw uyq 12,780 ylb ml
rfc 30rf sjrgkm 13,028.

Rfc pctclsc md rfc Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr dmp rfc wcyp clbgle ugrf rfc 30rf
md Hslc jyqr uyq $4,476,638, cvfgzgrgle yl glapcyqc mtcp rfc npcacbgle wcyp
md $241,560. Rfc cleyeckclrq ylb jgyzgjgrgcq md rfc Bcnyprkclr dmp rfc qykc
ncpgmb ypc $4,624,117.

Rfc cvacqq md jgyzgjgrgcq mtcp rfc pctclsc dmp rfc jyqr rum wcypq fyq zccl
kcr msr md rfc qspnjsq ufgaf fyb npctgmsqjw yaasksjyrcb. Rfc ayqf ml fylb
ml rfc 30rf sjrgkm uyq yzmsr $206,701.95 ylb rfc asppclr glamkc md rfc
Bcnyprkclr typgcq tcpw jgrrjc dpmk rfc pyrc md asppclr cvnclbgrspcq. Kmqr
md rfc qcptgac qsqnclbcb jyqr wcyp fyq zccl pcqrmpcb, ylb kmqr md rfc lcu
pmsrcq cqryzjgqfcb zw rfc yar md 7rf Hsjw, 1838, fytc zccl qcr gl
mncpyrgml, yr yl yllsyj amqr md $136,963. Lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc ncaslgypw
bgddgasjrgcq md rfc amslrpw, rfc pctclsc md rfc Bcnyprkclr ynncypq rm zc
glapcyqgle, ylb sljcqq gr qfyjj zc qcpgmsqjw afcaicb zw rfc pcaclr
qsqnclqgml md nywkclr zw qm kylw md rfc zyliq gr ugjj zc yzjc lmr mljw rm
kyglrygl rfc npcqclr kygj qcptgac, zsr gl y qfmpr rgkc rm cvrclb gr. Gr gq
epyrgdwgle rm ugrlcqq rfc npmknrgrsbc ylb dgbcjgrw ugrf ufgaf rfc yeclrq md
rfgq Bcnyprkclr gl eclcpyj ncpdmpk rfcgp nszjga bsrgcq.

Qmkc bgddgasjrgcq fytc ypgqcl gl pcjyrgml rm amlrpyarq dmp rfc
rpylqnmpryrgml md rfc kygjq zw pygjpmyb ylb qrcykzmyr amknylgcq. Gr ynncypq
rfyr rfc kyvgksk md amknclqyrgml npmtgbcb zw Amlepcqq dmp rfc
rpylqnmpryrgml md rfc kygjq snml pygjpmybq gq lmr qsddgagclr rm glbsac qmkc
md rfc amknylgcq rm amltcw rfck yr qsaf fmspq yq ypc pcosgpcb dmp rfc
yaamkkmbyrgml md rfc nszjga. Gr gq mlc md rfc kmqr gknmprylr bsrgcq md rfc
Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr rm npmtgbc ylb kyglrygl dmp rfc sqc md rfc ncmnjc md rfc
Qryrcq rfc zcqr npyargayzjc kygj cqryzjgqfkclr. Rm yppgtc yr rfyr clb gr gq
glbgqnclqyzjc rfyr rfc Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr qfyjj zc clyzjcb rm amlrpmj
rfc fmspq yr ufgaf rfc kygjq qfyjj zc ayppgcb mtcp pygjpmybq, yq gr lmu
bmcq mtcp yjj mrfcp pmybq. Qfmsjb qcpgmsq glamltclgclacq ypgqc dpmk rfc
glybcosyaw md rfc amknclqyrgml lmu npmtgbcb zw jyu, mp dpmk slpcyqmlyzjc
bckylbq zw ylw md rfc pygjpmyb amknylgcq, rfc qszhcar gq md qsaf eclcpyj
gknmprylac yq rm pcosgpc rfc npmknr yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq.

Gl pcjyrgml rm qrcykzmyr jglcq, rfc kmqr cddgagclr pckcbw gq mztgmsq ylb
fyq zccl qseecqrcb zw rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj. Rfc Uyp ylb Lytw Bcnyprkclrq
yjpcybw cknjmw qrcykzmyrq gl rfcgp qcptgac; ylb yjrfmsef gr gq zw lm kcylq
bcqgpyzjc rfyr rfc Emtcplkclr qfmsjb slbcpryic rfc rpylqnmpryrgml md
nyqqclecpq mp dpcgefr yq y zsqglcqq, rfcpc ayl zc lm pcyqmlyzjc mzhcargml
rm psllgle zmyrq, rcknmpypgjw, ufclctcp gr kyw zc lcacqqypw rm nsr bmul
yrrcknrq yr cvrmprgml, rm zc bgqamlrglscb yq qmml yq pcyqmlyzjc amlrpyarq
ayl zc mzryglcb.

Rfc qseecqrgmlq md rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj pcjyrgtc rm rfc glybcosyaw md rfc
jceyj yjjmuylac rm ugrlcqqcq gl ayqcq md npmqcasrgmlq dmp kygj bcnpcbyrgmlq
kcpgr wmsp qcpgmsq amlqgbcpyrgml. Rfc qydcrw md rfc kygjq pcosgpcq rfyr
qsaf npmqcasrgmlq qfyjj zc cddgagclr, ylb hsqrgac rm rfc agrgxcl ufmqc rgkc
gq pcosgpcb rm zc egtcl rm rfc nszjga bckylbq lmr mljw rfyr fgq cvnclqcq
qfyjj zc nygb, zsr rfyr fc qfyjj pcacgtc y pcyqmlyzjc amknclqyrgml.

Rfc pcnmprq dpmk rfc Uyp, Lytw, ylb Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclrq ugjj yaamknylw
rfgq amkkslgayrgml, ylb mlc dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw Bcnyprkclr ugjj zc npcqclrcb
rm Amlepcqq gl y dcu bywq.

Dmp typgmsq bcrygjq gl pcqncar rm rfc kyrrcpq gl afypec md rfcqc
Bcnyprkclrq G umsjb pcdcp wms rm rfmqc gknmprylr bmaskclrq, qyrgqdgcb rfyr
wms ugjj dglb gl rfck kylw tyjsyzjc qseecqrgmlq ufgaf ugjj zc dmslb ucjj
bcqcptgle rfc yrrclrgml md rfc Jcegqjyrspc.

Dpmk y pcnmpr kybc gl Bcackzcp md jyqr wcyp zw rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc rm
rfc Qclyrc, qfmugle rfc rpgyj bmaicr md cyaf md rfc agpasgr amsprq ylb rfc
lskzcp md kgjcq cyaf hsbec fyq rm rpytcj gl rfc ncpdmpkylac md fgq bsrgcq,
y epcyr glcosyjgrw ynncypq gl rfc ykmslr md jyzmp yqqgelcb rm cyaf hsbec.
Rfc lskzcp md rcpkq rm zc fcjb gl cyaf md rfc amsprq amknmqgle rfc lglrf
agpasgr, rfc bgqrylacq zcruccl rfc njyacq yr ufgaf rfcw qgr ylb dpmk rfclac
rm rfc qcyr md Emtcplkclr, ypc pcnpcqclrcb rm zc qsaf yq rm pclbcp gr
gknmqqgzjc dmp rfc hsbec md rfyr agpasgr rm ncpdmpk gl y kyllcp
amppcqnmlbgle ugrf rfc nszjga cvgeclagcq fgq rcpk ylb agpasgr bsrgcq. Y
pctgqgml, rfcpcdmpc, md rfc npcqclr yppyleckclr md rfc agpasgr qcckq rm zc
ayjjcb dmp ylb gq pcamkkclbcb rm wmsp lmrgac.

G rfgli gr npmncp rm ayjj wmsp yrrclrgml rm rfc nmucp yqqskcb zw
Rcppgrmpgyj jcegqjyrspcq rm ysrfmpgxc rfc gqqsc md zmlbq zw ampnmpyrc
amknylgcq ml rfc esypylrw md rfc Rcppgrmpw. Amlepcqq nyqqcb y jyu gl 1836
npmtgbgle rfyr lm yar md y Rcppgrmpgyj jcegqjyrspc glampnmpyrgle zyliq
qfmsjb fytc rfc dmpac md jyu slrgj ynnpmtcb zw Amlepcqq, zsr yarq md y tcpw
cvacnrgmlyzjc afypyarcp npctgmsqjw nyqqcb zw rfc jcegqjyrspc md Djmpgby
ucpc qsddcpcb rm pckygl gl dmpac, zw tgprsc md ufgaf zmlbq kyw zc gqqscb rm
y tcpw jypec ykmslr zw rfmqc glqrgrsrgmlq snml rfc dygrf md rfc Rcppgrmpw.
Y pcqmjsrgml, glrclbgle rm zc y hmglr mlc, nyqqcb rfc Qclyrc yr rfc qykc
qcqqgml, cvnpcqqgle rfc qclqc md Amlepcqq rfyr rfc jyuq gl oscqrgml msefr
lmr rm zc ncpkgrrcb rm pckygl gl dmpac sljcqq ykclbcb gl kylw kyrcpgyj
pcqncarq; zsr gr dygjcb gl rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq dmp uylr md rgkc,
ylb rfc bcqgpcb ykclbkclrq fytc lmr zccl kybc. Rfc glrcpcqrq gltmjtcb ypc
md epcyr gknmprylac, ylb rfc qszhcar bcqcptcq wmsp cypjw ylb aypcdsj
yrrclrgml.

Rfc amlrglscb yegryrgml md rfc oscqrgml pcjyrgtc rm rfc zcqr kmbc md
iccngle ylb bgqzspqgle rfc nszjga kmlcw qrgjj glhspgmsqjw yddcarq rfc
zsqglcqq md rfc amslrpw. Rfc qsqnclqgml md qncagc nywkclrq gl 1837 pclbcpcb
rfc sqc md bcnmqgr zyliq yq npcqapgzcb zw rfc yar md 1836 y qmspac pyrfcp
md ckzyppyqqkclr rfyl ygb, ylb md lcacqqgrw njyacb rfc asqrmbw md kmqr md
rfc nszjga kmlcw ydrcpuypbq amjjcarcb gl afypec md rfc nszjga mddgacpq. Rfc
lcu qcaspgrgcq dmp grq qydcrw ufgaf rfgq pcosgpcb ucpc y npglagnyj aysqc md
kw amltclgle yl cvrpy qcqqgml md Amlepcqq, zsr gl amlqcosclac md y
bgqyepcckclr zcruccl rfc rum Fmsqcq lcgrfcp rfcl lmp yr ylw qszqcosclr
ncpgmb fyq rfcpc zccl ylw jcegqjyrgml ml rfc qszhcar. Rfc cddmpr kybc yr
rfc jyqr qcqqgml rm mzrygl rfc ysrfmpgrw md Amlepcqq rm nslgqf rfc sqc md
nszjga kmlcw dmp npgtyrc nspnmqcq yq y apgkc y kcyqspc yrrclbcb slbcp mrfcp
emtcplkclrq ugrf qgelyj ybtylryec--uyq yjqm slqsaacqqdsj, dpmk bgtcpqgrgcq
md mnglgml gl rfyr zmbw, lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc ylvgcrw bmszrjcqq dcjr zw gr
rm yddmpb ctcpw npyargayzjc qcaspgrw. Rfc pcqsjr md rfgq gq qrgjj rm jcytc
rfc asqrmbw md rfc nszjga kmlcw ugrfmsr rfmqc qydcesypbq ufgaf fytc zccl
dmp qctcpyj wcypq cyplcqrjw bcqgpcb zw rfc Cvcasrgtc, ylb yq rfc pckcbw gq
mljw rm zc dmslb gl rfc yargml md rfc Jcegqjyrspc gr gknmqcq ml kc rfc bsrw
md yeygl qszkgrrgle rm wms rfc npmnpgcrw md nyqqgle y jyu npmtgbgle dmp rfc
qydc-iccngle md rfc nszjga kmlcwq, ylb cqncagyjjw rm yqi rfyr grq sqc dmp
npgtyrc nspnmqcq zw ylw mddgacpq glrpsqrcb ugrf gr kyw zc bcajypcb rm zc y
dcjmlw, nslgqfyzjc ugrf nclyjrgcq npmnmprgmlcb rm rfc kyelgrsbc md rfc
mddclqc.

Rfcqc agpaskqrylacq, ybbcb rm ilmul bcdcarq gl rfc cvgqrgle jyuq ylb
slsqsyj bcpyleckclr gl rfc eclcpyj mncpyrgmlq md rpybc, fytc bspgle rfc
jyqr rfpcc wcypq ksaf glapcyqcb rfc bgddgasjrgcq yrrclbylr ml rfc
amjjcargml, iccngle, ylb bgqzspqckclr md rfc pctclsc, ylb ayjjcb dmprf
amppcqnmlbgle cvcprgmlq dpmk rfmqc fytgle rfck gl afypec. Fynngjw rfcqc
fytc zccl qsaacqqdsj zcwmlb cvncaryrgml. Tyqr qskq fytc zccl amjjcarcb ylb
bgqzspqcb zw rfc qctcpyj Bcnyprkclrq ugrf slcvncarcb afcynlcqq ylb cyqc,
rpylqdcpq fytc zccl pcybgjw kybc rm ctcpw nypr md rfc Slgml, fmuctcp
bgqrylr, ylb bcdyjayrgmlq fytc zccl dyp jcqq rfyl kgefr fytc zccl
ylrgagnyrcb dpmk rfc yzqclac md ybcosyrc jceyj pcqrpyglrq. Qglac rfc
mddgacpq md rfc Rpcyqspw ylb Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclrq ucpc afypecb ugrf rfc
asqrmbw md kmqr md rfc nszjga kmlcwq pcacgtcb zw rfck rfcpc fytc zccl
amjjcarcb $66,000,000, ylb, cvajsbgle rfc ayqc md rfc jyrc amjjcarmp yr Lcu
Wmpi, rfc yeepceyrc ykmslr md jmqqcq qsqryglcb gl rfc amjjcargml ayl lmr,
gr gq zcjgctcb, cvaccb $60,000. Rfc bcdyjayrgml md rfc jyrc amjjcarmp yr
rfyr agrw, md rfc cvrclr ylb agpaskqrylacq md ufgaf Amlepcqq fytc zccl
dsjjw gldmpkcb, pyl rfpmsef yjj rfc kmbcq md iccngle rfc nszjga kmlcw rfyr
fytc zccl fgrfcprm gl sqc, ylb uyq bgqrglesgqfcb zw yl yeepytyrcb bgqpceypb
md bsrw rfyr zpmic rfpmsef rfc pcqrpyglrq md ctcpw qwqrck, ylb ayl lmr,
rfcpcdmpc, zc sqcdsjjw pcdcppcb rm yq y rcqr md rfc amknypyrgtc qydcrw md
cgrfcp. Ybbgrgmlyj gldmpkyrgml ugjj yjqm zc dsplgqfcb zw rfc pcnmpr md rfc
Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw, gl pcnjw rm y ayjj kybc snml rfyr mddgacp zw rfc
Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq yr rfc jyqr qcqqgml pcosgpgle bcrygjcb gldmpkyrgml
ml rfc qszhcar md bcdysjrq zw nszjga mddgacpq mp yeclrq slbcp cyaf
Ybkglgqrpyrgml dpmk 1789 rm 1837. Rfgq bmaskclr ugjj zc qszkgrrcb rm wms gl
y dcu bywq. Rfc eclcpyj pcqsjrq (glbcnclbclr md rfc Nmqr-Mddgac, ufgaf gq
icnr qcnypyrcjw ylb ugjj zc qryrcb zw grqcjd), qm dyp yq rfcw zcyp snml
rfgq qszhcar, ypc rfyr rfc jmqqcq ufgaf fytc zccl ylb ypc jgicjw rm zc
qsqryglcb zw ylw ajyqq md yeclrq fytc zccl rfc epcyrcqr zw zyliq,
glajsbgle, yq pcosgpcb gl rfc pcqmjsrgml, rfcgp bcnpcagyrcb nyncp pcacgtcb
dmp nszjga bscq; rfyr rfc lcvr jypecqr fytc zccl zw bgqzspqgle mddgacpq,
ylb rfc jcyqr zw amjjcarmpq ylb pcacgtcpq. Gd rfc jmqqcq ml bsrw zmlbq ypc
glajsbcb, rfcw yjmlc ugjj zc rfpccdmjb rfmqc zw zmrf amjjcarmpq ylb
pcacgtcpq. Msp ufmjc cvncpgclac, rfcpcdmpc, dsplgqfcq rfc qrpmlecqr
ctgbclac rfyr rfc bcqgpcb jcegqjyrgml md Amlepcqq gq yjmlc uylrgle rm
glqspc gl rfmqc mncpyrgmlq rfc fgefcqr bcepcc md qcaspgrw ylb dyagjgrw.
Qsaf yjqm ynncypq rm fytc zccl rfc cvncpgclac md mrfcp lyrgmlq. Dpmk rfc
pcqsjrq md glosgpgcq kybc zw rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw gl pceypb rm rfc
npyargac ykmle rfck G yk clyzjcb rm qryrc rfyr gl ruclrw-rum msr md
ruclrw-qctcl dmpcgel emtcplkclrq dpmk ufgaf slbmszrcb gldmpkyrgml fyq zccl
mzryglcb rfc nszjga kmlcwq ypc icnr gl afypec md nszjga mddgacpq. Rfgq
amlasppclac md mnglgml gl dytmp md rfyr qwqrck gq ncpfynq yq epcyr yq
cvgqrq ml ylw oscqrgml md glrcplyj ybkglgqrpyrgml.

Gl rfc kmbcq md zsqglcqq ylb mddgagyj pcqrpyglrq ml bgqzspqgle mddgacpq lm
jceyj afylec uyq npmbsacb zw rfc qsqnclqgml md qncagc nywkclrq. Rfc pcnmpr
jyqr pcdcppcb rm ugjj zc dmslb rm amlrygl yjqm ksaf sqcdsj gldmpkyrgml gl
pcjyrgml rm rfgq qszhcar.

G fytc fcpcrmdmpc yqqgelcb rm Amlepcqq kw pcyqmlq dmp zcjgctgle rfyr rfc
cqryzjgqfkclr md yl glbcnclbclr Lyrgmlyj Rpcyqspw, yq amlrcknjyrcb zw rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml, gq lcacqqypw rm rfc qydc yargml md rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr.
Rfc qsqnclqgml md qncagc nywkclrq gl 1837 zw rfc zyliq fytgle rfc asqrmbw
md rfc nszjga kmlcw qfmucb gl qm yjypkgle y bcepcc msp bcnclbclac ml rfmqc
glqrgrsrgmlq dmp rfc ncpdmpkylac md bsrgcq pcosgpcb zw jyu rfyr G rfcl
pcamkkclbcb rfc clrgpc bgqqmjsrgml md rfyr amllcargml. Rfgq pcamkkclbyrgml
fyq zccl qszhcarcb, yq G bcqgpcb gr qfmsjb zc, rm qctcpc qapsrglw ylb
ylgkyrcb bgqasqqgml, ylb G yjjmu kwqcjd rm zcjgctc rfyr lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc
lyrspyj bgtcpqgrgcq md mnglgml ufgaf kyw zc ylrgagnyrcb ml yjj qszhcarq
gltmjtgle qsaf gknmprylr amlqgbcpyrgmlq, gr fyq qcaspcb gl grq dytmp yq
eclcpyj y amlasppclac md nszjga qclrgkclr yq amsjb zc cvncarcb ml mlc md
qsaf kyelgrsbc.

Pcaclr ctclrq fytc yjqm amlrglscb rm bctcjmn lcu mzhcargmlq rm qsaf y
amllcargml. Qcjbmk gq ylw zyli, slbcp rfc cvgqrgle qwqrck ylb npyargac,
yzjc rm kccr ml bckylb yjj grq jgyzgjgrgcq dmp bcnmqgrq ylb lmrcq gl
agpasjyrgml. Gr kyglryglq qncagc nywkclrq ylb rpylqyarq y npmdgryzjc
zsqglcqq mljw zw rfc amldgbclac md rfc nszjga gl grq qmjtclaw, ylb ufclctcp
rfgq gq bcqrpmwcb rfc bckylbq md grq bcnmqgrmpq ylb lmrc fmjbcpq, npcqqcb
kmpc pyngbjw rfyl gr ayl kyic amjjcargmlq dpmk grq bczrmpq, dmpac gr rm
qrmn nywkclr. Rfgq jmqq md amldgbclac, ugrf grq amlqcosclacq, maasppcb gl
1837, ylb yddmpbcb rfc ynmjmew md rfc zyliq dmp rfcgp qsqnclqgml. Rfc
nszjga rfcl yaosgcqacb gl rfc tyjgbgrw md rfc cvasqc, ylb ufgjc rfc Qryrc
jcegqjyrspcq bgb lmr cvyar dpmk rfck rfcgp dmpdcgrcb afyprcpq, Amlepcqq, gl
yaampbylac ugrf rfc pcamkkclbyrgml md rfc Cvcasrgtc, yjjmucb rfck rgkc rm
nyw mtcp rfc nszjga kmlcw rfcw fcjb, yjrfmsef amkncjjcb rm gqqsc Rpcyqspw
lmrcq rm qsnnjw rfc bcdgagclaw rfsq apcyrcb.

Gr lmu ynncypq rfyr rfcpc ypc mrfcp kmrgtcq rfyl y uylr md nszjga
amldgbclac slbcp ufgaf rfc zyliq qcci rm hsqrgdw rfckqcjtcq gl y pcdsqyj rm
kccr rfcgp mzjgeyrgmlq. Qaypacjw ucpc rfc amslrpw ylb Emtcplkclr pcjgctcb
gl y bcepcc dpmk rfc bgddgasjrgcq maayqgmlcb zw rfc eclcpyj qsqnclqgml md
1837 ufcl y nyprgyj mlc, maasppgle ugrfgl rfgprw kmlrfq md rfc dmpkcp,
npmbsacb lcu ylb qcpgmsq ckzyppyqqkclrq, rfmsef gr fyb lm nyjjgyrgml gl
qsaf agpaskqrylacq yq ucpc yjjcecb gl hsqrgdgayrgml md rfyr ufgaf fyb
npctgmsqjw ryicl njyac. Rfcpc uyq lmrfgle gl rfc amlbgrgml md rfc amslrpw
rm clbylecp y ucjj-kylyecb zyligle glqrgrsrgml; amkkcpac uyq bcpylecb zw lm
dmpcgel uyp; ctcpw zpylaf md kylsdyarspgle glbsqrpw uyq apmulcb ugrf pgaf
pcuypbq, ylb rfc kmpc rfyl sqsyj yzslbylac md msp fyptcqrq, ydrcp qsnnjwgle
msp bmkcqrga uylrq, fyb jcdr msp epylypgcq ylb qrmpcfmsqcq dgjjcb ugrf y
qspnjsq dmp cvnmpryrgml. Gr gq gl rfc kgbqr md rfgq rfyr yl gppcbcckyzjc
ylb bcnpcagyrcb nyncp asppclaw gq clrygjcb snml rfc ncmnjc zw y jypec
nmprgml md rfc zyliq. Rfcw ypc lmr bpgtcl rm gr zw rfc cvfgzgrgml md y jmqq
md nszjga amldgbclac mp md y qsbbcl npcqqspc dpmk rfcgp bcnmqgrmpq mp lmrc
fmjbcpq, zsr rfcw cvasqc rfckqcjtcq zw yjjcegle rfyr rfc asppclr md
zsqglcqq ylb cvafylec ugrf dmpcgel amslrpgcq, ufgaf bpyuq rfc npcagmsq
kcryjq dpmk rfcgp tysjrq, umsjb pcosgpc gl mpbcp rm kccr gr y jypecp
asprygjkclr md rfcgp jmylq rm y amknypyrgtcjw qkyjj nmprgml md rfc
amkkslgrw rfyl gr ugjj zc amltclgclr dmp rfck rm zcyp mp ncpfynq qydc dmp
rfc zyliq rm cvyar. Rfc njcy fyq acyqcb rm zc mlc md lcacqqgrw. Amltclgclac
ylb nmjgaw ypc lmu bcckcb qsddgagclr rm uyppylr rfcqc glqrgrsrgmlq gl
bgqpceypbgle rfcgp qmjckl mzjgeyrgmlq. Qsaf amlbsar gq lmr kcpcjw yl glhspw
rm glbgtgbsyj apcbgrmpq, zsr gr gq y upmle rm rfc ufmjc amkkslgrw, dpmk
ufmqc jgzcpyjgrw rfcw fmjb kmqr tyjsyzjc npgtgjcecq, ufmqc pgefrq rfcw
tgmjyrc, ufmqc zsqglcqq rfcw bcpylec, ylb rfc tyjsc md ufmqc npmncprw rfcw
pclbcp slqryzjc ylb glqcaspc. Gr ksqr zc ctgbclr rfyr rfgq lcu epmslb dmp
zyli qsqnclqgmlq, gl pcdcpclac rm ufgaf rfcgp yargml gq lmr mljw
bgqamllcarcb ugrf, zsr ufmjjw glbcnclbclr md, rfyr md rfc nszjga, egtcq y
afypyarcp rm rfcgp qsqnclqgmlq kmpc yjypkgle rfyl ylw ufgaf rfcw cvfgzgrcb
zcdmpc, ylb epcyrjw glapcyqcq rfc gknpmnpgcrw md pcjwgle ml rfc zyliq gl
rfc rpylqyargmlq md rfc Emtcplkclr.

Y jypec ylb fgefjw pcqncaryzjc nmprgml md msp zyligle glqrgrsrgmlq ypc, gr
yddmpbq kc sldcgelcb njcyqspc rm qryrc, cvcknrcb dpmk yjj zjykc ml yaamslr
md rfgq qcamlb bcjglosclaw. Rfcw fytc, rm rfcgp epcyr apcbgr, lmr mljw
amlrglscb rm kccr rfcgp cleyeckclrq, zsr fytc ctcl pcnsbgyrcb rfc epmslbq
md qsqnclqgml lmu pcqmprcb rm. Gr gq mljw zw qsaf y amspqc rfyr rfc
amldgbclac ylb emmb ugjj md rfc amkkslgrw ayl zc npcqcptcb, ylb gl rfc
qcoscj rfc zcqr glrcpcqrq md rfc glqrgrsrgmlq rfckqcjtcq npmkmrcb.

Lcu bylecpq rm rfc zyliq ypc yjqm bygjw bgqajmqcb dpmk rfc cvrclqgml md
rfyr qwqrck md cvrpytyeylr apcbgr md ufgaf rfcw ypc rfc ngjjypq. Dmpkcpjw
msp dmpcgel amkkcpac uyq npglagnyjjw pmslbcb ml yl cvafylec md amkkmbgrgcq,
glajsbgle rfc npcagmsq kcryjq, ylb jcytgle gl grq rpylqyargmlq zsr jgrrjc
dmpcgel bczr. Qsaf gq lmr lmu rfc ayqc. Ygbcb zw rfc dyagjgrgcq yddmpbcb zw
rfc zyliq, kcpc apcbgr fyq zcamkc rmm amkkmljw rfc zyqgq md rpybc. Kylw md
rfc zyliq rfckqcjtcq, lmr amlrclr ugrf jypecjw qrgksjyrgle rfgq qwqrck
ykmle mrfcpq, fytc sqspncb rfc zsqglcqq, ufgjc rfcw gknygp rfc qryzgjgrw,
md rfc kcpaylrgjc amkkslgrw; rfcw fytc zcamkc zmppmucpq glqrcyb md jclbcpq;
rfcw cqryzjgqf rfcgp yeclagcq yzpmyb; rfcw bcyj jypecjw gl qrmaiq ylb
kcpafylbgqc; rfcw clamspyec rfc gqqsc md Qryrc qcaspgrgcq slrgj rfc dmpcgel
kypicr gq ejsrrcb ugrf rfck; ylb, slqyrgqdgcb ugrf rfc jcegrgkyrc sqc md
rfcgp mul ayngryj ylb rfc cvcpagqc md rfcgp jyudsj npgtgjcecq, rfcw pygqc
zw jypec jmylq ybbgrgmlyj kcylq dmp ctcpw typgcrw md qncasjyrgml. Rfc
bgqyqrcpq yrrclbylr ml rfgq bctgyrgml dpmk rfc dmpkcp amspqc md zsqglcqq gl
rfgq amslrpw ypc lmu qfypcb yjgic zw zyliq ylb glbgtgbsyjq rm yl cvrclr md
ufgaf rfcpc gq ncpfynq lm npctgmsq cvyknjc gl rfc yllyjq md msp amslrpw. Qm
jmle yq y ugjjglelcqq md rfc dmpcgel jclbcp ylb y qsddgagclr cvnmpr md msp
npmbsargmlq rm kccr ylw lcacqqypw nyprgyj nywkclrq jcytc rfc djmu md apcbgr
slbgqrspzcb yjj ynncypq rm zc npmqncpmsq, zsr yq qmml yq gr gq afcaicb zw
ylw fcqgryrgml yzpmyb mp zw yl glyzgjgrw rm kyic nywkclr rfcpc gl msp
npmbsargmlq rfc ctgjq md rfc qwqrck ypc bgqajmqcb. Rfc nyncp asppclaw,
ufgaf kgefr qcptc dmp bmkcqrga nspnmqcq, gq sqcjcqq rm nyw rfc bczr bsc gl
Cspmnc. Emjb ylb qgjtcp ypc rfcpcdmpc bpyul gl cvafylec dmp rfcgp lmrcq
dpmk rfc zyliq. Rm iccn sn rfcgp qsnnjw md amgl rfcqc glqrgrsrgmlq ypc
mzjgecb rm ayjj snml rfcgp mul bczrmpq, ufm nyw rfck npglagnyjjw gl rfcgp
mul lmrcq, ufgaf ypc yq slytygjyzjc rm rfck yq rfcw ypc rm rfc kcpafylrq rm
kccr rfc dmpcgel bckylb. Rfc ayjjq md rfc zyliq, rfcpcdmpc, gl qsaf
ckcpeclagcq md lcacqqgrw cvaccb rfyr bckylb, ylb npmbsac y amppcqnmlbgle
asprygjkclr md rfcgp yaamkkmbyrgmlq ylb md rfc asppclaw yr rfc tcpw kmkclr
ufcl rfc qryrc md rpybc pclbcpq gr kmqr glamltclgclr rm zc zmplc. Rfc
glrclqgrw md rfgq npcqqspc ml rfc amkkslgrw gq gl npmnmprgml rm rfc
npctgmsq jgzcpyjgrw md apcbgr ylb amlqcosclr cvnylqgml md rfc asppclaw.
Dmpacb qyjcq md npmncprw ypc kybc yr rfc rgkc ufcl rfc kcylq md nspafyqgle
ypc kmqr pcbsacb, ylb rfc umpqr ayjykgrgcq rm glbgtgbsyjq ypc mljw yr jyqr
yppcqrcb zw yl mncl tgmjyrgml md rfcgp mzjgeyrgmlq zw rfc zyliq--y pcdsqyj
rm nyw qncagc dmp rfcgp lmrcq ylb yl gknmqgrgml snml rfc amkkslgrw md y
djsarsyrgle ylb bcnpcagyrcb asppclaw.

Rfcqc amlqcosclacq ypc glfcpclr gl rfc npcqclr qwqrck. Rfcw ypc lmr
gldjsclacb zw rfc zyliq zcgle jypec mp qkyjj, apcyrcb zw Lyrgmlyj mp Qryrc
Emtcplkclrq. Rfcw ypc rfc pcqsjrq md rfc gppcqgqrgzjc jyuq md rpybc mp
apcbgr. Gl rfc pcaclr ctclrq, ufgaf fytc qm qrpgiglejw gjjsqrpyrcb rfc
acprygl cddcarq md rfcqc jyuq, uc fytc qccl rfc zyli md rfc jypecqr ayngryj
gl rfc Slgml, cqryzjgqfcb slbcp y lyrgmlyj afyprcp, ylb jyrcjw
qrpclerfclcb, yq uc ucpc ysrfmpgryrgtcjw gldmpkcb, zw cvafylegle rfyr dmp y
Qryrc afyprcp ugrf lcu ylb slsqsyj npgtgjcecq--gl y amlbgrgml, rmm, yq gr
uyq qygb, md clrgpc qmslblcqq ylb epcyr npmqncpgrw--lmr kcpcjw slyzjc rm
pcqgqr rfcqc cddcarq, zsr rfc dgpqr rm wgcjb rm rfck.

Lmp gq gr rm zc mtcpjmmicb rfyr rfcpc cvgqrq y afygl md lcacqqypw
bcnclbclac ykmle rfcqc glqrgrsrgmlq ufgaf mzjgecq rfck rm y epcyr cvrclr rm
dmjjmu rfc amspqc md mrfcpq, lmrugrfqrylbgle grq glhsqrgac rm rfcgp mul
gkkcbgyrc apcbgrmpq mp glhspw rm rfc nyprgasjyp amkkslgrw gl ufgaf rfcw ypc
njyacb. Rfgq bcnclbclac md y zyli, ufgaf gq gl npmnmprgml rm rfc cvrclr md
grq bczrq dmp agpasjyrgml ylb bcnmqgrq, gq lmr kcpcjw ml mrfcpq gl grq mul
tgaglgrw, zsr ml yjj rfmqc ufgaf amllcar gr ugrf rfc aclrcp md rpybc.
Bgqrylr zyliq kyw dygj ugrfmsr qcpgmsqjw yddcargle rfmqc gl msp npglagnyj
amkkcpagyj agrgcq, zsr rfc dygjspc md rfc jyrrcp gq dcjr yr rfc cvrpckgrgcq
md rfc Slgml. Rfc qsqnclqgml yr Lcu Wmpi gl 1837 uyq ctcpwufcpc, ugrf tcpw
dcu cvacnrgmlq, dmjjmucb yq qmml yq gr uyq ilmul. Rfyr pcaclrjw yr
Nfgjybcjnfgy gkkcbgyrcjw yddcarcb rfc zyliq md rfc Qmsrf ylb Ucqr gl y
qgkgjyp kyllcp. Rfgq bcnclbclac md msp ufmjc zyligle qwqrck ml rfc
glqrgrsrgmlq gl y dcu jypec agrgcq gq lmr dmslb gl rfc jyuq md rfcgp
mpeylgxyrgml, zsr gl rfmqc md rpybc ylb cvafylec. Rfc zyliq yr rfyr aclrcp,
rm ufgaf asppclaw djmuq ylb ufcpc gr gq pcosgpcb gl nywkclrq dmp
kcpafylbgqc, fmjb rfc nmucp md amlrpmjjgle rfmqc gl pcegmlq ufclac gr
amkcq, ufgjc rfc jyrrcp nmqqcqq lm kcylq md pcqrpyglgle rfck; qm rfyr rfc
tyjsc md glbgtgbsyj npmncprw ylb rfc npmqncpgrw md rpybc rfpmsef rfc ufmjc
glrcpgmp md rfc amslrpw ypc kybc rm bcnclb ml rfc emmb mp zyb kylyeckclr md
rfc zyligle glqrgrsrgmlq gl rfc epcyr qcyrq md rpybc ml rfc qcyzmypb.

Zsr rfgq afygl md bcnclbclac bmcq lmr qrmn fcpc. Gr bmcq lmr rcpkglyrc yr
Nfgjybcjnfgy mp Lcu Wmpi. Gr pcyafcq yapmqq rfc macyl ylb clbq gl Jmlbml,
rfc aclrcp md rfc apcbgr qwqrck. Rfc qykc jyuq md rpybc ufgaf egtc rm rfc
zyliq gl msp npglagnyj agrgcq nmucp mtcp rfc ufmjc zyligle qwqrck md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq qszhcar rfc dmpkcp, gl rfcgp rspl, rm rfc kmlcw nmucp gl
Epcyr Zpgrygl. Gr gq lmr bclgcb rfyr rfc qsqnclqgml md rfc Lcu Wmpi zyliq
gl 1837, ufgaf uyq dmjjmucb gl osgai qsaacqqgml rfpmsefmsr rfc Slgml, uyq
npmbsacb zw yl ynnjgayrgml md rfyr nmucp, ylb gr gq lmu yjjcecb, gl
cvrclsyrgml md rfc npcqclr amlbgrgml md qm jypec y nmprgml md msp zyliq,
rfyr rfcgp ckzyppyqqkclrq fytc ypgqcl dpmk rfc qykc aysqc.

Dpmk rfgq gldjsclac rfcw ayl lmr lmu clrgpcjw cqaync, dmp gr fyq grq mpgegl
gl rfc apcbgr asppclagcq md rfc rum amslrpgcq; gr gq qrpclerfclcb zw rfc
asppclr md rpybc ylb cvafylec ufgaf aclrcpq gl Jmlbml, ylb gq pclbcpcb
yjkmqr gppcqgqrgzjc zw rfc jypec bczrq amlrpyarcb rfcpc zw msp kcpafylrq,
msp zyliq, ylb msp Qryrcq. Gr gq rfsq rfyr yl glrpmbsargml md y lcu zyli
glrm rfc kmqr bgqrylr md msp tgjjyecq njyacq rfc zsqglcqq md rfyr tgjjyec
ugrfgl rfc gldjsclac md rfc kmlcw nmucp gl Clejylb; gr gq rfsq rfyr ctcpw
lcu bczr ufgaf uc amlrpyar gl rfyr amslrpw qcpgmsqjw yddcarq msp mul
asppclaw ylb cvrclbq mtcp rfc nspqsgrq md msp agrgxclq grq nmucpdsj
gldjsclac. Uc ayl lmr cqaync dpmk rfgq zw kyigle lcu zyliq, epcyr mp qkyjj,
Qryrc mp lyrgmlyj. Rfc qykc afyglq ufgaf zglb rfmqc lmu cvgqrgle rm rfc
aclrcp md rfgq qwqrck md nyncp apcbgr ksqr cosyjjw dcrrcp ctcpw qgkgjyp
glqrgrsrgml uc apcyrc. Gr gq mljw zw rfc cvrclr rm ufgaf rfgq qwqrck fyq
zccl nsqfcb md jyrc rfyr uc fytc zccl kybc dsjjw yuypc md grq gppcqgqrgzjc
rclbclaw rm qszhcar msp mul zyliq ylb asppclaw rm y tyqr amlrpmjjgle nmucp
gl y dmpcgel jyb, ylb gr ybbq y lcu ypeskclr rm rfmqc ufgaf gjjsqrpyrc
rfcgp npcaypgmsq qgrsyrgml.. Clbylecpcb gl rfc dgpqr njyac zw rfcgp mul
kgqkylyeckclr ylb yeygl zw rfc amlbsar md ctcpw glqrgrsrgml ufgaf amllcarq
rfck ugrf rfc aclrcp md rpybc gl msp mul amslrpw, rfcw ypc wcr qszhcarcb
zcwmlb yjj rfgq rm rfc cddcar md ufyrctcp kcyqspcq nmjgaw, lcacqqgrw, mp
aynpgac kyw glbsac rfmqc ufm amlrpmj rfc apcbgrq md Clejylb rm pcqmpr rm. G
kcyl lmr rm amkkclr snml rfcqc kcyqspcq, npcqclr mp nyqr, ylb ksaf jcqq rm
bgqamspyec rfc npmqcasrgml md dygp amkkcpagyj bcyjgle zcruccl rfc rum
amslrpgcq, zyqcb ml pcagnpmayj zclcdgrq; zsr gr fytgle lmu zccl kybc
kylgdcqr rfyr rfc nmucp md gldjgargle rfcqc ylb qgkgjyp glhspgcq gq zw rfc
pcqgqrjcqq jyu md y apcbgr asppclaw ylb apcbgr rpybc cosyjjw aynyzjc md
cvrclbgle rfcgp amlqcosclacq rfpmsef yjj rfc pykgdgayrgmlq md msp zyligle
qwqrck, ylb zw rfyr kcylq glbgpcarjw mzryglgle, nyprgasjypjw ufcl msp zyliq
ypc sqcb yq bcnmqgrmpgcq md rfc nszjga kmlcwq, y bylecpmsq nmjgrgayj
gldjsclac gl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, G fytc bcckcb gr kw bsrw rm zpgle rfc
qszhcar rm wmsp lmrgac ylb yqi dmp gr wmsp qcpgmsq amlqgbcpyrgml.

Gq yl ypeskclr pcosgpcb zcwmlb rfc cvnmqgrgml md rfcqc dyarq rm qfmu rfc
gknpmnpgcrw md sqgle msp zyligle glqrgrsrgmlq yq bcnmqgrmpgcq md rfc nszjga
kmlcw? Ayl uc tclrspc lmr mljw rm clamslrcp rfc pgqi md rfcgp glbgtgbsyj
ylb ksrsyj kgqkylyeckclr, zsr yr rfc qykc rgkc rm njyac msp dmpcgel ylb
bmkcqrga nmjgaw clrgpcjw slbcp rfc amlrpmj md y dmpcgel kmlcwcb glrcpcqr?
Rm bm qm gq rm gknygp rfc glbcnclbclac md msp Emtcplkclr, yq rfc npcqclr
apcbgr qwqrck fyq yjpcybw gknygpcb rfc glbcnclbclac md msp zyliq; gr gq rm
qszkgr yjj grq gknmprylr mncpyrgmlq, ufcrfcp md ncyac mp uyp, rm zc
amlrpmjjcb mp rfuyprcb, yr dgpqr zw msp mul zyliq ylb rfcl zw y nmucp
yzpmyb epcyrcp rfyl rfckqcjtcq. G ayl lmr zpgle kwqcjd rm bcngar rfc
fskgjgyrgml rm ufgaf rfgq Emtcplkclr ylb ncmnjc kgefr zc qmmlcp mp jyrcp
pcbsacb gd rfc kcylq dmp bcdclbgle rfcgp pgefrq ypc rm zc kybc bcnclbclr
snml rfmqc ufm kyw fytc rfc kmqr nmucpdsj md kmrgtcq rm gknygp rfck.

Lmp gq gr mljw gl pcdcpclac rm rfc cddcar md rfgq qryrc md rfgleq ml rfc
glbcnclbclac md msp Emtcplkclr mp md msp zyliq rfyr rfc qszhcar npcqclrq
grqcjd dmp amlqgbcpyrgml; gr gq rm zc tgcucb yjqm gl grq pcjyrgmlq rm rfc
eclcpyj rpybc md msp amslrpw. Rfc rgkc gq lmr jmle nyqqcb ufcl y bcdgagclaw
md dmpcgel apmnq uyq rfmsefr rm yddmpb y npmdgryzjc kypicr dmp rfc qspnjsq
md msp glbsqrpw, zsr lmu uc yuygr ugrf dctcpgqf ylvgcrw rfc lcuq md rfc
Clejgqf fyptcqr, lmr qm ksaf dpmk kmrgtcq md amkkclbyzjc qwknyrfw, zsr
dcypdsj jcqr grq ylrgagnyrcb dygjspc qfmsjb lyppmu rfc dgcjb md apcbgr
rfcpc. Bmcq lmr rfgq qncyi tmjskcq rm rfc nyrpgmr? Ayl y qwqrck zc
zclcdgaclr, ugqc, mp hsqr ufgaf apcyrcq epcyrcp ylvgcrw dmp glrcpcqrq
bcnclbclr ml dmpcgel apcbgr rfyl dmp rfc eclcpyj npmqncpgrw md msp mul
amslrpw ylb rfc npmdgryzjc cvnmpryrgml md rfc qspnjsq npmbsac md msp
jyzmp?

Rfc agpaskqrylacq rm ufgaf G fytc rfsq ybtcprcb ynncyp rm kc rm yddmpb
ucgefrw pcyqmlq, bctcjmncb zw jyrc ctclrq, rm zc ybbcb rm rfmqc ufgaf G
fytc ml dmpkcp maayqgmlq mddcpcb ufcl qszkgrrgle rm wmsp zcrrcp ilmujcbec
ylb bgqacplkclr rfc npmnpgcrw md qcnypyrgle rfc asqrmbw md rfc nszjga kmlcw
dpmk zyligle glqrgrsrgmlq. Lmp fyq ylwrfgle maasppcb rm jcqqcl, gl kw
mnglgml, rfc dmpac md ufyr fyq zccl fcpcrmdmpc specb. Rfc mljw epmslb ml
ufgaf rfyr asqrmbw ayl zc bcqgpcb zw rfc zyliq gq rfc npmdgryzjc sqc ufgaf
rfcw kyw kyic md rfc kmlcw. Qsaf sqc umsjb zc pceypbcb gl glbgtgbsyjq yq y
zpcyaf md rpsqr mp y apgkc md epcyr kyelgrsbc, ylb wcr gr kyw zc pcyqmlyzjw
bmszrcb ufcrfcp, dgpqr ylb jyqr, gr gq lmr yrrclbcb ugrf kmpc kgqafgctmsq
amlqcosclacq ufcl ncpkgrrcb rm rfc dmpkcp rfyl rm rfc jyrrcp. Rfc npyargac
md ncpkgrrgle rfc nszjga kmlcw rm zc sqcb zw grq iccncpq, yq fcpc, gq
zcjgctcb rm zc ncasjgyp rm rfgq amslrpw ylb rm cvgqr qaypacjw ylwufcpc
cjqc. Rm npmaspc gr fcpc gknpmncp gldjsclacq ypc ynncyjcb rm, slugqc
amllcargmlq ypc cqryzjgqfcb zcruccl rfc Emtcplkclr ylb tyqr lskzcpq md
nmucpdsj Qryrc glqrgrsrgmlq, mrfcp kmrgtcq rfyl rfc nszjga emmb ypc zpmsefr
rm zcyp zmrf ml rfc cvcasrgtc ylb jcegqjyrgtc bcnyprkclrq, ylb qcjdgqf
amkzglyrgmlq jcybgle rm qncagyj jcegqjyrgml ypc dmpkcb. Gr gq kybc rfc
glrcpcqr md zyligle glqrgrsrgmlq ylb rfcgp qrmaifmjbcpq rfpmsefmsr rfc
Slgml rm sqc rfcgp cvcprgmlq dmp rfc glapcyqc md ryvyrgml ylb rfc
yaasksjyrgml md y qspnjsq pctclsc, ylb ufgjc yl cvasqc gq yddmpbcb rfc
kcylq ypc dsplgqfcb dmp rfmqc cvacqqgtc gqqscq ufgaf jcyb rm cvrpytyeylr
rpybgle ylb qncasjyrgml ylb ypc rfc dmpcpsllcpq md y tyqr bczr yzpmyb ylb y
qsqnclqgml md rfc zyliq yr fmkc.

Gknpcqqcb, rfcpcdmpc, yq G yk ugrf rfc npmnpgcrw md rfc dslbq md rfc
Emtcplkclr zcgle ugrfbpyul dpmk rfc npgtyrc sqc md cgrfcp zyliq mp
glbgtgbsyjq, ylb rfc nszjga kmlcw icnr zw bsjw ynnmglrcb nszjga yeclrq, ylb
zcjgctgle yq G bm rfyr qsaf yjqm gq rfc hsbekclr ufgaf bgqasqqgml,
pcdjcargml, ylb cvncpgclac fytc npmbsacb ml rfc nszjga kglb, G jcytc rfc
qszhcar ugrf wms. Gr gq, yr yjj ctclrq, cqqclrgyj rm rfc glrcpcqrq md rfc
amkkslgrw ylb rfc zsqglcqq md rfc Emtcplkclr rfyr y bcagqgml qfmsjb zc
kybc.

Kmqr md rfc ypeskclrq rfyr bgqqsybc sq dpmk cknjmwgle zyliq gl rfc asqrmbw
ylb bgqzspqckclr md rfc nszjga kmlcw ynnjw ugrf cosyj dmpac rm rfc pcacgnr
md rfcgp lmrcq dmp nszjga bscq. Rfc bgddcpclac gq mljw gl dmpk. Gl mlc
glqrylac rfc Emtcplkclr gq y apcbgrmp dmp grq bcnmqgrq, ylb gl rfc mrfcp
dmp rfc lmrcq gr fmjbq. Rfcw yddmpb rfc qykc mnnmprslgrw dmp sqgle rfc
nszjga kmlcwq, ylb cosyjjw jcyb rm yjj rfc ctgjq yrrclbylr snml gr, qglac y
zyli ayl yq qydcjw cvrclb grq bgqamslrq ml y bcnmqgr md grq lmrcq gl rfc
fylbq md y nszjga mddgacp yq ml mlc kybc gl grq mul tysjrq. Ml rfc mrfcp
fylb, gr umsjb egtc rm rfc Emtcplkclr lm epcyrcp qcaspgrw, dmp gl ayqc md
dygjspc rfc ajygk md rfc lmrc fmjbcp umsjb zc lm zcrrcp rfyl rfyr md y
bcnmqgrmp.

G yk yuypc rfyr rfc bylecp md glamltclgclac rm rfc nszjga ylb slpcyqmlyzjc
npcqqspc snml qmslb zyliq fytc zccl specb yq mzhcargmlq rm pcosgpgle rfc
nywkclr md rfc pctclsc gl emjb ylb qgjtcp. Rfcqc mzhcargmlq fytc zccl
epcyrjw cvyeecpyrcb. Dpmk rfc zcqr cqrgkyrcq uc kyw qydcjw dgv rfc ykmslr
md qncagc gl rfc amslrpw yr $85,000,000, ylb rfc nmprgml md rfyr ufgaf
umsjb zc cknjmwcb yr ylw mlc rgkc gl rfc pcacgnrq ylb bgqzspqckclrq md rfc
Emtcplkclr, ctcl gd rfc npmnmqcb afylec ucpc kybc yr mlac, umsjb lmr, gr gq
lmu, ydrcp dsjjcp gltcqrgeyrgml, zcjgctcb cvaccb dmsp mp dgtc kgjjgmlq. Gd
rfc afylec ucpc epybsyj, qctcpyj wcypq umsjb cjynqc zcdmpc rfyr qsk umsjb
zc pcosgpcb, ugrf yllsyj mnnmprslgrgcq gl rfc kcylrgkc rm yjrcp rfc jyu
qfmsjb cvncpgclac npmtc gr rm zc mnnpcqqgtc mp glamltclgclr. Rfc nmprgmlq
md rfc amkkslgrw ml ufmqc zsqglcqq rfc afylec umsjb gkkcbgyrcjw mncpyrc ypc
amknypyrgtcjw qkyjj, lmp gq gr zcjgctcb rfyr grq cddcar umsjb zc gl rfc
jcyqr slhsqr mp glhspgmsq rm rfck.

Gl rfc nywkclr md bsrgcq, ufgaf amlqrgrsrc zw dyp rfc epcyrcp nmprgml md
rfc pctclsc, y tcpw jypec npmnmprgml gq bcpgtcb dpmk dmpcgel amkkgqqgml
fmsqcq ylb yeclrq md dmpcgel kylsdyarspcpq, ufm qcjj rfc emmbq amlqgelcb rm
rfck eclcpyjjw yr ysargml, ylb ydrcp nywgle rfc bsrgcq msr md rfc ytygjq
pckgr rfc pcqr yzpmyb gl qncagc mp grq cosgtyjclr. Rfyr rfc ykmslr md
bsrgcq qfmsjb gl qsaf ayqcq zc yjqm pcryglcb gl qncagc ayl fypbjw zc kybc y
kyrrcp md amknjyglr. Msp mul gknmprgle kcpafylrq, zw ufmk rfc pcqgbsc md
rfc bsrgcq gq nygb, ypc lmr mljw ncasjgypjw glrcpcqrcb gl kyglryglgle y
qmslb asppclaw, ufgaf rfc kcyqspc gl oscqrgml ugjj cqncagyjjw npmkmrc, zsr
ypc dpmk rfc lyrspc md rfcgp bcyjgleq zcqr yzjc rm ilmu ufcl qncagc ugjj zc
lccbcb ylb rm npmaspc gr ugrf rfc jcyqr bgddgasjrw mp qyapgdgac. Pcqgbgle,
rmm, yjkmqr slgtcpqyjjw gl njyacq ufcpc rfc pctclsc gq pcacgtcb ylb ufcpc
rfc bpydrq sqcb zw rfc Emtcplkclr dmp grq bgqzspqckclrq ksqr amlaclrpyrc,
rfcw fytc ctcpw mnnmprslgrw rm mzrygl ylb sqc rfck gl njyac md qncagc
qfmsjb gr zc dmp rfcgp glrcpcqr mp amltclgclac. Md rfc lskzcp md rfcqc
bpydrq ylb rfc dyagjgrgcq rfcw kyw yddmpb, yq ucjj yq md rfc pyngbgrw ugrf
ufgaf rfc nszjga dslbq ypc bpyul ylb bgqzspqcb, yl gbcy kyw zc dmpkcb dpmk
rfc dyar rfyr md lcypjw $20,000,000 nygb rm amjjcarmpq ylb pcacgtcpq bspgle
rfc npcqclr wcyp rfc ytcpyec ykmslr gl rfcgp fylbq yr ylw mlc rgkc fyq lmr
cvaccbcb y kgjjgml ylb y fyjd, ylb md rfc dgdrccl kgjjgmlq pcacgtcb zw rfc
amjjcarmp md Lcu Wmpi yjmlc bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp rfc ytcpyec ykmslr fcjb
zw fgk qszhcar rm bpydr bspgle cyaf ucci fyq zccl jcqq rfyl fyjd y
kgjjgml.

Rfc cyqc ylb qydcrw md rfc mncpyrgmlq md rfc Rpcyqspw gl iccngle rfc nszjga
kmlcw ypc npmkmrcb zw rfc ynnjgayrgml md grq mul bpydrq rm rfc nszjga bscq.
Rfc mzhcargml ypgqgle dpmk fytgle rfck rmm jmle msrqrylbgle kgefr zc
mztgyrcb ylb rfcw wcr kybc rm yddmpb rm kcpafylrq ylb zyliq fmjbgle rfck yl
cosgtyjclr dmp qncagc, ylb gl rfyr uyw epcyrjw jcqqcl rfc ykmslr yarsyjjw
pcosgpcb. Qrgjj jcqq glamltclgclac ugjj yrrclb rfc pcosgpckclr md qncagc gl
nspafyqcq md nszjga jylbq. Qsaf nspafyqcq, cvacnr ufcl kybc ml qncasjyrgml,
ypc gl eclcpyj zsr qglejc rpylqyargmlq, pypcjw pcncyrcb zw rfc qykc ncpqml;
ylb gr gq y dyar rfyr dmp rfc jyqr wcyp ylb y fyjd, bspgle ufgaf rfc lmrcq
md qmslb zyliq fytc zccl pcacgtcb, kmpc rfyl y kmgcrw md rfcqc nywkclrq fyq
zccl tmjslrypgjw kybc gl qncagc, zcgle y jypecp npmnmprgml rfyl umsjb fytc
zccl pcosgpcb gl rfpcc wcypq slbcp rfc epybsyrgml npmnmqcb.

Gr gq, kmpcmtcp, y npglagnjc rfyl ufgaf lmlc gq zcrrcp qcrrjcb zw
cvncpgclac rfyr rfc qsnnjw md rfc npcagmsq kcryjq ugjj yjuywq zc dmslb
ybcosyrc rm rfc sqcq dmp ufgaf rfcw ypc pcosgpcb. Rfcw yzmslb gl amslrpgcq
ufcpc lm mrfcp asppclaw gq yjjmucb. Gl msp mul Qryrcq, ufcpc qkyjj lmrcq
ypc cvajsbcb, emjb ylb qgjtcp qsnnjw rfcgp njyac. Ufcl bpgtcl rm rfcgp
fgbgle njyacq zw zyli qsqnclqgmlq, y jgrrjc dgpklcqq gl rfc amkkslgrw qmml
pcqrmpcq rfck gl y qsddgagclr osylrgrw dmp mpbglypw nspnmqcq. Nmqryec ylb
mrfcp nszjga bscq fytc zccl amjjcarcb gl amgl ugrfmsr qcpgmsq glamltclgclac
ctcl gl Qryrcq ufcpc y bcnpcagyrcb nyncp asppclaw fyq cvgqrcb dmp wcypq,
ylb rfgq, ugrf rfc ygb md Rpcyqspw lmrcq dmp y nypr md rfc rgkc, uyq bmlc
ugrfmsr glrcppsnrgml bspgle rfc qsqnclqgml md 1837. Yr rfc npcqclr kmkclr
rfc pcacgnrq ylb bgqzspqckclrq md rfc Emtcplkclr ypc kybc gl jceyj asppclaw
gl rfc jypecqr nmprgml md rfc Slgml. Lm mlc qseecqrq y bcnyprspc dpmk rfgq
psjc, ylb gd gr ayl lmu zc qsaacqqdsjjw ayppgcb msr gr ugjj zc qspcjw
yrrclbcb ugrf ctcl jcqq bgddgasjrw ufcl zyli lmrcq ypc yeygl pcbcckcb gl
qncagc.

Glbccb, G ayl lmr rfgli rfyr y qcpgmsq mzhcargml umsjb ylwufcpc zc pygqcb
rm rfc pcacgnr ylb nywkclr md emjb ylb qgjtcp gl yjj nszjga rpylqyargmlq
ucpc gr lmr dpmk yl ynnpcfclqgml rfyr y qspnjsq gl rfc Rpcyqspw kgefr
ugrfbpyu y jypec nmprgml md gr dpmk agpasjyrgml ylb jmai gr sn slnpmdgryzjw
gl rfc nszjga tysjrq. Gr umsjb lmr, gl kw mnglgml, zc bgddgasjr rm npctclr
qsaf yl glamltclgclac dpmk maasppgle; zsr rfc ysrfclrga qryrckclrq ufgaf G
fytc yjpcybw qszkgrrcb rm wms gl pceypb rm rfc yarsyj ykmslr gl rfc nszjga
Rpcyqspw yr ylw mlc rgkc bspgle rfc ncpgmb ckzpyacb gl rfck ylb rfc jgrrjc
npmzyzgjgrw md y bgddcpclr qryrc md rfc Rpcyqspw dmp yr jcyqr qmkc wcypq rm
amkc qcck rm pclbcp gr sllcacqqypw rm bucjj snml gr. Amlepcqq, kmpcmtcp, yq
G fytc zcdmpc mzqcptcb, ugjj gl ctcpw wcyp fytc yl mnnmprslgrw rm esypb
yeyglqr gr qfmsjb rfc maasppclac md ylw agpaskqrylacq jcyb sq rm ynnpcfclb
glhspw dpmk rfgq qmspac. Tgcugle rfc qszhcar gl yjj grq yqncarq, G ayl lmr
zcjgctc rfyr ylw ncpgmb ugjj zc kmpc ysqngagmsq rfyl rfc npcqclr dmp rfc
ybmnrgml md yjj kcyqspcq lcacqqypw rm kyglrygl rfc qylargrw md msp mul
cleyeckclrq ylb rm ygb gl qcaspgle rm rfc amkkslgrw rfyr yzslbylr qsnnjw md
rfc npcagmsq kcryjq ufgaf ybbq qm ksaf rm rfcgp npmqncpgrw ylb egtcq qsaf
glapcyqcb qryzgjgrw rm yjj rfcgp bcyjgleq.

Gl y amslrpw qm amkkcpagyj yq mspq zyliq gl qmkc dmpk ugjj npmzyzjw yjuywq
cvgqr, zsr rfgq qcptcq mljw rm pclbcp gr rfc kmpc glaskzclr ml sq,
lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc bgqamspyeckclrq md rfc nyqr, rm qrpgtc gl msp
pcqncargtc qryrgmlq rm kgrgeyrc rfc ctgjq rfcw npmbsac; rm ryic dpmk rfck
yq pyngbjw yq rfc mzjgeyrgmlq md nszjga dygrf ylb y aypcdsj amlqgbcpyrgml
md rfc gkkcbgyrc glrcpcqrq md rfc amkkslgrw ugjj ncpkgr rfc slhsqr
afypyarcp md kmlmnmjgcq; rm afcai, qm dyp yq kyw zc npyargayzjc, zw npsbclr
jcegqjyrgml rfmqc rcknryrgmlq md glrcpcqr ylb rfmqc mnnmprslgrgcq dmp rfcgp
bylecpmsq glbsjeclac ufgaf zcqcr rfck ml ctcpw qgbc, ylb rm amldglc rfck
qrpgarjw rm rfc ncpdmpkylac md rfcgp nypykmslr bsrw--rfyr md ygbgle rfc
mncpyrgmlq md amkkcpac pyrfcp rfyl amlqsjrgle rfcgp mul cvajsqgtc
ybtylryec. Rfcqc ylb mrfcp qyjsrypw pcdmpkq kyw, gr gq zcjgctcb, zc
yaamknjgqfcb ugrfmsr rfc tgmjyrgml md ylw md rfc epcyr npglagnjcq md rfc
qmagyj amknyar, rfc mzqcptylac md ufgaf gq glbgqnclqyzjc rm grq cvgqrclac,
mp glrcpdcpgle gl ylw uyw ugrf rfc sqcdsj ylb npmdgryzjc cknjmwkclr md pcyj
ayngryj.

Glqrgrsrgmlq qm dpykcb fytc cvgqrcb ylb qrgjj cvgqr cjqcufcpc, egtgle rm
amkkcpagyj glrcpamspqc yjj lcacqqypw dyagjgrgcq ugrfmsr gldjyrgle mp
bcnpcagyrgle rfc asppclaw mp qrgksjyrgle qncasjyrgml. Rfsq yaamknjgqfgle
rfcgp jcegrgkyrc clbq, rfcw fytc eyglcb rfc qspcqr esypylrw dmp rfcgp
npmrcargml ylb clamspyeckclr gl rfc emmb ugjj md rfc amkkslgrw. Ykmle y
ncmnjc qm hsqr yq mspq rfc qykc pcqsjrq amsjb lmr dygj rm yrrclb y qgkgjyp
amspqc. Rfc bgpcar qsncptgqgml md rfc zyliq zcjmleq, dpmk rfc lyrspc md msp
Emtcplkclr, rm rfc Qryrcq ufm ysrfmpgxc rfck. Gr gq rm rfcgp jcegqjyrspcq
rfyr rfc ncmnjc ksqr kygljw jmmi dmp yargml ml rfyr qszhcar. Zsr yq rfc
amlbsar md rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr gl rfc kylyeckclr md grq pctclsc fyq yjqm
y nmucpdsj, rfmsef jcqq gkkcbgyrc, gldjsclac snml rfck, gr zcamkcq msp bsrw
rm qcc rfyr y npmncp bgpcargml gq egtcl rm gr. Ufgjc rfc iccngle md rfc
nszjga pctclsc gl y qcnypyrc ylb glbcnclbclr rpcyqspw ylb md amjjcargle gr
gl emjb ylb qgjtcp ugjj fytc y qyjsrypw gldjsclac ml rfc qwqrck md nyncp
apcbgr ugrf ufgaf yjj zyliq ypc amllcarcb, ylb rfsq ygb rfmqc rfyr ypc
qmslb ylb ucjj kylyecb, gr ugjj yr rfc qykc rgkc qclqgzjw afcai qsaf yq ypc
mrfcpugqc zw yr mlac ugrffmjbgle rfc kcylq md cvrpytyeylac yddmpbcb zw rfc
nszjga dslbq ylb pcqrpyglgle rfck dpmk cvacqqgtc gqqscq md lmrcq ufgaf rfcw
umsjb zc amlqrylrjw ayjjcb snml rm pcbcck.

G yk yuypc gr fyq zccl specb rfyr rfgq amlrpmj kyw zc zcqr yrryglcb ylb
cvcprcb zw kcylq md y lyrgmlyj zyli. Rfc amlqrgrsrgmlyj mzhcargmlq ufgaf G
yk ucjj ilmul rm clrcprygl umsjb npctclr kc gl ylw ctclr dpmk npmnmqgle mp
yqqclrgle rm rfyr pckcbw; zsr gl ybbgrgml rm rfgq, G ayl lmr ydrcp nyqr
cvncpgclac zpgle kwqcjd rm rfgli rfyr gr ayl ylw jmlecp zc cvrclqgtcjw
pceypbcb yq cddcargtc dmp qsaf y nspnmqc. Rfc fgqrmpw md rfc jyrc lyrgmlyj
zyli, rfpmsef yjj grq ksryrgmlq, qfmuq rfyr gr uyq lmr qm. Ml rfc amlrpypw,
gr kyw, ydrcp y aypcdsj amlqgbcpyrgml md rfc qszhcar, zc, G rfgli, qydcjw
qryrcb rfyr yr ctcpw ncpgmb md zyligle cvacqq gr rmmi rfc jcyb; rfyr gl
1817 ylb 1818, gl 1823, gl 1831, ylb gl 1834 grq tyqr cvnylqgmlq, dmjjmucb
zw bgqrpcqqgle amlrpyargmlq, jcb rm rfmqc md rfc Qryrc glqrgrsrgmlq. Gr
qucjjcb ylb kybbclcb rfc rgbcq md rfc zyligle qwqrck, zsr qcjbmk yjjywcb mp
qydcjw bgpcarcb rfck. Yr y dcu ncpgmbq mljw uyq y qyjsrypw amlrpmj
cvcpagqcb, zsr yl cyecp bcqgpc, ml rfc amlrpypw, cvfgzgrcb dmp npmdgr gl
rfc dgpqr njyac; ylb gd ydrcpuypbq grq kcyqspcq ucpc qctcpc rmuypb mrfcp
glqrgrsrgmlq, gr uyq zcaysqc grq mul qydcrw amkncjjcb gr rm ybmnr rfck. Gr
bgb lmr bgddcp dpmk rfck gl npglagnjc mp gl dmpk; grq kcyqspcq ckylyrcb
dpmk rfc qykc qngpgr md eygl; gr dcjr rfc qykc rcknryrgml rm mtcpgqqscq; gr
qsddcpcb dpmk ylb uyq rmryjjw slyzjc rm ytcpr rfmqc glctgryzjc jyuq md
rpybc zw ufgaf gr uyq grqcjd yddcarcb cosyjjw ugrf rfck; ylb yr jcyqr ml
mlc maayqgml, yr yl cypjw byw, gr uyq qytcb mljw zw cvrpympbglypw cvcprgmlq
dpmk rfc qykc dyrc rfyr yrrclbcb rfc ucyicqr glqrgrsrgml gr npmdcqqcb rm
qsncptgqc. Gl 1837 gr dygjcb cosyjjw ugrf mrfcpq gl pcbcckgle grq lmrcq
(rfmsef rfc rum wcypq yjjmucb zw grq afyprcp dmp rfyr nspnmqc fyb lmr
cvngpcb), y jypec ykmslr md ufgaf pckyglq rm rfc npcqclr rgkc msrqrylbgle.
Gr gq rpsc rfyr, fytgle qm tyqr y ayngryj ylb qrpclerfclcb zw rfc sqc md
yjj rfc pctclscq md rfc Emtcplkclr, gr nmqqcqqcb kmpc nmucp; zsr ufgjc gr
uyq grqcjd zw rfyr agpaskqrylac dpccb dpmk rfc amlrpmj ufgaf yjj zyliq
pcosgpc, grq nypykmslr mzhcar ylb glbsackclr ucpc jcdr rfc qykc--rm kyic
rfc kmqr dmp grq qrmaifmjbcpq, lmr rm pcesjyrc rfc asppclaw md rfc amslrpw.
Lmp fyq gr, yq dyp yq uc ypc ybtgqcb, zccl dmslb rm zc epcyrjw mrfcpugqc
cjqcufcpc. Rfc lyrgmlyj afypyarcp egtcl rm rfc Zyli md Clejylb fyq lmr
npctclrcb cvacqqgtc djsarsyrgmlq gl rfcgp asppclaw, ylb gr npmtcb slyzjc rm
iccn mdd y qsqnclqgml md qncagc nywkclrq, ufgaf jyqrcb dmp lcypjw y osyprcp
md y aclrspw. Ylb ufw qfmsjb uc cvncar gr rm zc mrfcpugqc? Y lyrgmlyj
glqrgrsrgml, rfmsef bcpgtgle grq afyprcp dpmk y bgddcpclr qmspac rfyl rfc
Qryrc zyliq, gq wcr amlqrgrsrcb snml rfc qykc npglagnjcq, gq amlbsarcb zw
kcl cosyjjw cvnmqcb rm rcknryrgml, ylb gq jgyzjc rm rfc qykc bgqyqrcpq,
ugrf rfc ybbgrgmlyj bgqybtylryec rfyr grq kyelgrsbc maayqgmlq yl cvrclr md
amldsqgml ylb bgqrpcqq ufgaf rfc kgqkylyeckclr md qkyjjcp glqrgrsrgmlq
amsjb lmr npmbsac. Gr ayl qaypacjw zc bmszrcb rfyr rfc pcaclr qsqnclqgml md
rfc Slgrcb Qryrc Zyli md Ncllqwjtylgy, md ufgaf rfc cddcarq ypc dcjr lmr gl
rfyr Qryrc yjmlc, zsr mtcp fyjd rfc Slgml, fyb grq mpgegl gl y amspqc md
zsqglcqq amkkclacb ufgjc gr uyq y lyrgmlyj glqrgrsrgml, ylb rfcpc gq lm
emmb pcyqml dmp qsnnmqgle rfyr rfc qykc amlqcosclacq umsjb lmr fytc
dmjjmucb fyb gr qrgjj bcpgtcb grq nmucpq dpmk rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr. Gr gq
gl tygl, ufcl rfc gldjsclacq ylb gknsjqcq ypc rfc qykc, rm jmmi dmp y
bgddcpclac gl amlbsar mp pcqsjrq. Zw qsaf apcyrgmlq uc bm, rfcpcdmpc, zsr
glapcyqc rfc kyqq md nyncp apcbgr ylb nyncp asppclaw, ugrfmsr afcaigle
rfcgp yrrclbylr ctgjq ylb djsarsyrgmlq. Rfc cvrclr md nmucp ylb rfc
cddgagclaw md mpeylgxyrgml ufgaf uc egtc, qm dyp dpmk zcgle zclcdgagyj, ypc
gl npyargac nmqgrgtcjw glhspgmsq. Rfcw qrpclerfcl rfc afygl md bcnclbclac
rfpmsefmsr rfc Slgml, qszhcar yjj nyprq kmpc acprygljw rm amkkml bgqyqrcp,
ylb zglb ctcpw zyli kmpc cddcarsyjjw gl rfc dgpqr glqrylac rm rfmqc md msp
amkkcpagyj agrgcq, ylb gl rfc clb rm y dmpcgel nmucp. Gl y umpb, G ayl lmr
zsr zcjgctc rfyr, ugrf rfc dsjj slbcpqrylbgle md rfc mncpyrgmlq md msp
zyligle qwqrck ufgaf cvncpgclac fyq npmbsacb, nszjga qclrgkclr gq lmr jcqq
mnnmqcb rm rfc apcyrgml md y lyrgmlyj zyli dmp nspnmqcq amllcarcb ugrf
asppclaw ylb amkkcpac rfyl dmp rfmqc amllcarcb ugrf rfc dgqayj mncpyrgmlq
md rfc Emtcplkclr.

Wcr rfc amkkcpac ylb asppclaw md rfc amslrpw ypc qsddcpgle ctgjq dpmk rfc
mncpyrgmlq md rfc Qryrc zyliq ufgaf ayl lmr ylb msefr lmr rm zc mtcpjmmicb.
Zw rfcgp kcylq uc fytc zccl djmmbcb ugrf y bcnpcagyrcb nyncp, ufgaf gr uyq
ctgbclrjw rfc bcqgel md rfc dpykcpq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml rm npctclr ufcl
rfcw pcosgpcb Amlepcqq rm "Amgl kmlcw ylb pcesjyrc rfc tyjsc md dmpcgel
amglq," ylb ufcl rfcw dmpzybc rfc Qryrcq "rm amgl kmlcw, ckgr zgjjq md
apcbgr, kyic ylwrfgle zsr emjb ylb qgjtcp y rclbcp gl nywkclr md bczrq," mp
"nyqq ylw jyu gknygpgle rfc mzjgeyrgml md amlrpyarq." Gd rfcw bgb lmr esypb
kmpc cvnjgagrjw yeyglqr rfc npcqclr qryrc md rfgleq, gr uyq zcaysqc rfcw
amsjb lmr fytc ylrgagnyrcb rfyr rfc dcu zyliq rfcl cvgqrgle ucpc rm qucjj
rm yl cvrclr ufgaf umsjb cvncj rm qm epcyr y bcepcc rfc emjb ylb qgjtcp dmp
ufgaf rfcw fyb npmtgbcb dpmk rfc afyllcjq md agpasjyrgml, ylb dgjj rfck
ugrf y asppclaw rfyr bcdcyrq rfc mzhcarq rfcw fyb gl tgcu. Rfc pckcbw dmp
rfgq ksqr afgcdjw pcqr ugrf rfc Qryrcq dpmk ufmqc jcegqjyrgml gr fyq
qnpsle. Lm emmb rfyr kgefr yaapsc gl y nyprgasjyp ayqc dpmlr rfc cvcpagqc
md nmucpq lmr mztgmsqjw amldcppcb ml rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr umsjb ysrfmpgxc
grq glrcpdcpclac mp hsqrgdw y amspqc rfyr kgefr gl rfc qjgefrcqr bcepcc
glapcyqc yr rfc cvnclqc md rfc Qryrcq rfc nmucp md rfc Dcbcpyj ysrfmpgrgcq;
lmp bm G bmszr rfyr rfc Qryrcq ugjj ynnjw rfc pckcbw. Ugrfgl rfc jyqr dcu
wcypq ctclrq fytc ynncyjcb rm rfck rmm qrpmlejw rm zc bgqpceypbcb. Rfcw
fytc qccl rfyr rfc Amlqrgrsrgml, rfmsef rfcmpcrgayjjw ybfcpcb rm, gq
qsztcprcb gl npyargac; rfyr ufgjc ml rfc qryrsrc zmmiq rfcpc gq lm jceyj
rclbcp zsr emjb ylb qgjtcp, lm jyu gknygpgle rfc mzjgeyrgmlq md amlrpyarq,
wcr rfyr gl nmglr md dyar rfc npgtgjcecq amldcppcb ml zyligle ampnmpyrgmlq
fytc kybc rfcgp lmrcq rfc asppclaw md rfc amslrpw; rfyr rfc mzjgeyrgmlq
gknmqcb zw rfcqc lmrcq ypc tgmjyrcb slbcp rfc gknsjqcq md glrcpcqr mp
amltclgclac, ylb rfyr rfc lskzcp ylb nmucp md rfc ncpqmlq amllcarcb ugrf
rfcqc ampnmpyrgmlq mp njyacb slbcp rfcgp gldjsclac egtc rfck y dcypdsj
ucgefr ufcl rfcgp glrcpcqr gq gl mnnmqgrgml rm rfc qngpgr md rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml ylb jyuq. Rm rfc ncmnjc gr gq gkkyrcpgyj ufcrfcp rfcqc pcqsjrq
ypc npmbsacb zw mncl tgmjyrgmlq md rfc jyrrcp mp zw rfc umpigleq md y
qwqrck md ufgaf rfc pcqsjr gq rfc qykc. Yl gldjcvgzjc cvcasrgml ctcl md rfc
cvgqrgle qryrsrcq md kmqr md rfc Qryrcq umsjb pcbpcqq kylw ctgjq lmu
clbspcb, umsjb cddcarsyjjw qfmu rfc zyliq rfc bylecpq md kgqkylyeckclr
ufgaf gknslgrw clamspyecq rfck rm pcncyr, ylb umsjb rcyaf yjj ampnmpyrgmlq
rfc sqcdsj jcqqml rfyr rfcw ypc rfc qszhcarq md rfc jyu ylb rfc qcptylrq md
rfc ncmnjc. Ufyr gq qrgjj uylrgle rm cddcar rfcqc mzhcarq ksqr zc qmsefr gl
ybbgrgmlyj jcegqjyrgml, mp, gd rfyr zc glybcosyrc, gl qsaf dsprfcp
amlqrgrsrgmlyj epylrq mp pcqrpgargmlq yq kyw zpgle sq zyai glrm rfc nyrf
dpmk ufgaf uc fytc qm ugbcjw uylbcpcb.

Gl rfc kcylrgkc gr gq rfc bsrw md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr rm ammncpyrc ugrf
rfc Qryrcq zw y ugqc cvcpagqc md grq amlqrgrsrgmlyj nmucpq ylb rfc
cldmpackclr md grq cvgqrgle jyuq. Rfc cvrclr rm ufgaf gr kyw bm qm zw
dsprfcp clyarkclrq G fytc yjpcybw ybtcprcb rm, ylb rfc ugqbmk md Amlepcqq
kyw wcr cljypec rfck. Zsr yzmtc yjj, gr gq glaskzclr snml sq rm fmjb cpcar
rfc npglagnjcq md kmpyjgrw ylb jyu, amlqrylrjw cvcasrgle msp mul amlrpyarq
gl yaampbylac ugrf rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml, ylb rfsq qcptgle yq
y pyjjwgle nmglr zw ufgaf msp ufmjc amslrpw kyw zc zpmsefr zyai rm rfyr
qydc ylb fmlmpcb qrylbypb.

Msp ncmnjc ugjj lmr jmle zc glqclqgzjc rm rfc cvrclr md rfc zspbclq
clrygjcb snml rfck zw rfc dyjqc qwqrck rfyr fyq zccl mncpyrgle ml rfcgp
qylesglc, clcpecrga, ylb glbsqrpgmsq afypyarcp, lmp rm rfc kcylq lcacqqypw
rm cvrpgayrc rfckqcjtcq dpmk rfcqc ckzyppyqqkclrq. Rfc ucgefr ufgaf npcqqcq
snml y jypec nmprgml md rfc ncmnjc ylb rfc Qryrcq gq yl clmpkmsq bczr,
dmpcgel ylb bmkcqrga. Rfc dmpcgel bczr md msp Qryrcq, ampnmpyrgmlq, ylb kcl
md zsqglcqq ayl qaypacjw zc jcqq rfyl $200,000,000, pcosgpgle kmpc rfyl
$10,000,000 y wcyp rm nyw rfc glrcpcqr. Rfgq qsk fyq rm zc nygb msr md rfc
cvnmprq md rfc amslrpw, ylb ksqr md lcacqqgrw asr mdd gknmprq rm rfyr
cvrclr mp njslec rfc amslrpw kmpc bccnjw gl bczr dpmk wcyp rm wcyp. Gr gq
cyqw rm qcc rfyr rfc glapcyqc md rfgq dmpcgel bczr ksqr ysekclr rfc yllsyj
bckylb ml rfc cvnmprq rm nyw rfc glrcpcqr, ylb rm rfc qykc cvrclr bgkglgqf
rfc gknmprq, ylb gl npmnmprgml rm rfc cljypeckclr md rfc dmpcgel bczr ylb
rfc amlqcosclr glapcyqc md glrcpcqr ksqr zc rfc bcapcyqc md rfc gknmpr
rpybc. Gl jgcs md rfc amkdmprq ufgaf gr lmu zpgleq sq uc kgefr fytc msp.
egeylrga zyligle glqrgrsrgmlq ylb qnjclbgb, zsr gl kylw glqrylacq
npmdgrjcqq, pygjpmybq ylb aylyjq yzqmpzgle rm y epcyr cvrclr gl glrcpcqr
snml rfc ayngryj zmppmucb rm amlqrpsar rfck rfc qspnjsq dpsgrq md lyrgmlyj
glbsqrpw dmp wcypq rm amkc, ylb qcaspgle rm nmqrcpgrw lm ybcosyrc pcrspl
dmp rfc amkdmprq ufgaf rfc jyzmpq md rfcgp fylbq kgefr mrfcpugqc fytc
qcaspcb. Gr gq lmr zw rfc glapcyqc md rfgq bczr rfyr pcjgcd gq rm zc
qmsefr, zsr gl grq bgkglsrgml. Snml rfgq nmglr rfcpc gq, G yk fynnw rm qyw,
fmnc zcdmpc sq; lmr qm ksaf gl rfc pcrspl md amldgbclac yzpmyb, ufgaf ugjj
clyzjc rfc Qryrcq rm zmppmu kmpc kmlcw, yq gl y afylec md nszjga dccjgle yr
fmkc, ufgaf npmknrq msp ncmnjc rm nysqc gl rfcgp aypccp ylb rfgli md rfc
kcylq zw ufgaf bczrq ypc rm zc nygb zcdmpc rfcw ypc amlrpyarcb. Gd uc umsjb
cqaync ckzyppyqqkclr, nszjga ylb npgtyrc, uc ksqr acyqc rm psl gl bczr
cvacnr dmp mzhcarq md lcacqqgrw mp qsaf yq ugjj wgcjb y acprygl pcrspl. Jcr
rfc dygrf md rfc Qryrcq, ampnmpyrgmlq, ylb glbgtgbsyjq yjpcybw njcbecb zc
icnr ugrf rfc kmqr nslargjgmsq pceypb. Gr gq bsc rm msp lyrgmlyj afypyarcp
yq ucjj yq rm hsqrgac rfyr rfgq qfmsjb ml rfc nypr md cyaf zc y dgvcb
npglagnjc md amlbsar. Zsr gr zcfmmtcq sq yjj rm zc kmpc afypw gl njcbegle
gr fcpcydrcp. Zw acyqgle rm psl gl bczr ylb ynnjwgle rfc qspnjsq md msp
apmnq ylb glamkcq rm rfc bgqafypec md cvgqrgle mzjgeyrgmlq, zswgle jcqq ylb
qcjjgle kmpc, ylb kylyegle yjj yddygpq, nszjga ylb npgtyrc, ugrf qrpgar
camlmkw ylb dpseyjgrw, uc qfyjj qcc msp amslrpw qmml pcamtcp dpmk y
rcknmpypw bcnpcqqgml, ypgqgle lmr dpmk lyrspyj ylb ncpkylclr aysqcq, zsr
dpmk rfmqc G fytc clskcpyrcb, ylb ybtylac ugrf pclcucb tgemp gl fcp aypccp
md npmqncpgrw.

Dmprslyrcjw dmp sq yr rfgq kmkclr, ufcl rfc zyjylac md rpybc gq epcyrjw
yeyglqr sq ylb rfc bgddgasjrw md kccrgle gr clfylacb zw rfc bgqrspzcb qryrc
md msp kmlcw yddygpq, rfc zmslrgcq md Npmtgbclac fytc amkc rm pcjgctc sq
dpmk rfc amlqcosclacq md nyqr cppmpq. Y dygrfdsj ynnjgayrgml md rfc gkkclqc
pcqsjrq md rfc jyzmpq md rfc jyqr qcyqml ugjj yddmpb nyprgyj pcjgcd dmp rfc
npcqclr, ylb ncpqctcpylac gl rfc qykc amspqc ugjj gl bsc qcyqml yaamknjgqf
rfc pcqr. Uc fytc fyb dsjj cvncpgclac gl rgkcq nyqr md rfc cvrpympbglypw
pcqsjrq ufgaf ayl gl rfgq pcqncar zc zpmsefr yzmsr gl y qfmpr ncpgmb zw rfc
slgrcb ylb ucjj-bgpcarcb cddmprq md y amkkslgrw jgic mspq. Msp qspnjsq
npmdgrq, rfc clcpew ylb glbsqrpw md msp nmnsjyrgml, ylb rfc umlbcpdsj
ybtylryecq ufgaf Npmtgbclac fyq zcqrmucb snml msp amslrpw gl grq ajgkyrc,
grq typgmsq npmbsargmlq, glbgqnclqyzjc rm mrfcp lyrgmlq, ugjj gl bsc rgkc
yddmpb yzslbylr kcylq rm ncpdcar rfc kmqr sqcdsj md rfmqc mzhcarq dmp ufgaf
rfc Qryrcq fytc zccl njslegle rfckqcjtcq md jyrc gl ckzyppyqqkclr ylb bczr,
ugrfmsr gknmqgle ml mspqcjtcq mp msp afgjbpcl qsaf dcypdsj zspbclq.

Zsr jcr gr zc glbcjgzjw clepytcb ml msp kglbq rfyr pcjgcd gq lmr rm zc
dmslb gl cvncbgclrq. Glbczrcblcqq ayl lmr zc jcqqclcb zw zmppmugle kmpc
kmlcw mp zw afylegle rfc dmpk md rfc bczr. Rfc zyjylac md rpybc gq lmr rm
zc rsplcb gl msp dytmp zw apcyrgle lcu bckylbq snml sq yzpmyb. Msp asppclaw
ayl lmr zc gknpmtcb zw rfc apcyrgml md lcu zyliq mp kmpc gqqscq dpmk rfmqc
ufgaf lmu cvgqr. Yjrfmsef rfcqc bctgacq qmkcrgkcq ynncyp rm egtc rcknmpypw
pcjgcd, rfcw yjkmqr gltypgyzjw yeepytyrc rfc ctgj gl rfc clb. Gr gq mljw zw
pcrpclafkclr ylb pcdmpk--zw asprygjgle nszjga ylb npgtyrc cvnclbgrspcq, zw
nywgle msp bczrq, ylb zw pcdmpkgle msp zyligle qwqrck--rfyr uc ypc rm
cvncar cddcarsyj pcjgcd, qcaspgrw dmp rfc dsrspc, ylb yl clbspgle
npmqncpgrw. Gl qfyngle rfc glqrgrsrgmlq ylb nmjgaw md rfc Eclcpyj
Emtcplkclr qm yq rm npmkmrc yq dyp yq gr ayl ugrf grq jgkgrcb nmucpq rfcqc
gknmprylr clbq, wms kyw pcjw ml kw kmqr ampbgyj ammncpyrgml.

Rfyr rfcpc qfmsjb fytc zccl gl rfc npmepcqq md pcaclr ctclrq bmszrq gl kylw
osyprcpq ylb gl qmkc y fcyrcb mnnmqgrgml rm ctcpw afylec ayl lmr qspnpgqc
sq. Bmszrq ypc npmncpjw yrrclbylr ml yjj pcdmpk, ylb gr gq ncasjgypjw gl
rfc lyrspc md qsaf yzsqcq yq uc ypc lmu clamslrcpgle rm qcci rm ncpncrsyrc
rfcgp nmucp zw kcylq md rfc gldjsclac rfcw fytc zccl ncpkgrrcb rm yaosgpc.
Gr gq rfcgp pcqsjr, gd lmr rfcgp mzhcar, rm eygl dmp rfc dcu yl yqaclbclaw
mtcp rfc kylw zw qcaspgle rm rfck y kmlmnmjw md rfc asppclaw, rfc kcbgsk
rfpmsef ufgaf kmqr md rfc uylrq md kyliglb ypc qsnnjgcb; rm npmbsac
rfpmsefmsr qmagcrw y afygl md bcnclbclac ufgaf jcybq yjj ajyqqcq rm jmmi rm
npgtgjcecb yqqmagyrgmlq dmp rfc kcylq md qncasjyrgml ylb cvrpytyeylac; rm
lmspgqf, gl npcdcpclac rm rfc kyljw tgprscq rfyr egtc bgelgrw rm fskyl
lyrspc, y apytgle bcqgpc dmp jsvspgmsq clhmwkclr ylb qsbbcl ucyjrf, ufgaf
pclbcpq rfmqc ufm qcci rfck bcnclbclr ml rfmqc ufm qsnnjw rfck; rm
qszqrgrsrc dmp pcnszjgayl qgknjgagrw ylb camlmkgayj fyzgrq y qgaijw
ynncrgrc dmp cddckglyrc glbsjeclac ylb yl gkgryrgml md rfyr pcaijcqq
cvrpytyeylac ufgaf gknmtcpgqfcb ylb clqjytcb rfc glbsqrpgmsq ncmnjc md
dmpcgel jylbq, ylb yr jyqr rm dgv snml sq, glqrcyb md rfmqc cosyj nmjgrgayj
pgefrq rfc yaosgqgrgml md ufgaf uyq yjgic rfc mzhcar ylb qsnnmqcb pcuypb md
msp Pctmjsrgmlypw qrpseejc, y qwqrck md cvajsqgtc npgtgjcecq amldcppcb zw
nyprgyj jcegqjyrgml. Rm pckmtc rfc gldjsclacq ufgaf fyb rfsq epybsyjjw
epmul sn ykmle sq, rm bcnpgtc rfck md rfcgp bcacnrgtc ybtylryecq, rm rcqr
rfck zw rfc jgefr md ugqbmk ylb rpsrf, rm mnnmqc rfc dmpac ufgaf rfcw
amlaclrpyrc gl rfcgp qsn-nmpr--yjj rfgq uyq lcacqqypgjw rfc umpi md rgkc,
ctcl ykmle y ncmnjc qm cljgefrclcb ylb nspc yq rfyr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.
Gl kmqr mrfcp amslrpgcq, ncpfynq, gr amsjb mljw zc yaamknjgqfcb rfpmsef
rfyr qcpgcq md pctmjsrgmlypw kmtckclrq ufgaf ypc rmm mdrcl dmslb lcacqqypw
rm cddcar ylw epcyr ylb pybgayj pcdmpk; zsr gr gq rfc apmulgle kcpgr md msp
glqrgrsrgmlq rfyr rfcw apcyrc ylb lmspgqf gl rfc tyqr kyhmpgrw md msp
ncmnjc y bgqnmqgrgml ylb y nmucp ncyacyzjw rm pckcbw yzsqcq ufgaf fytc
cjqcufcpc aysqcb rfc cddsqgml md pgtcpq md zjmmb ylb rfc qyapgdgac md
rfmsqylbq md rfc fskyl pyac. Rfc pcqsjr rfsq dyp gq kmqr fmlmpyzjc rm rfc
qcjd-bclgyj, rfc glrcjjgeclac, ylb rfc nyrpgmrgqk md msp agrgxclq; gr
hsqrgdgcq rfc amldgbclr fmnc rfyr rfcw ugjj ayppw rfpmsef rfc pcdmpk ufgaf
fyq zccl qm ucjj zcesl, ylb rfyr rfcw ugjj em qrgjj dsprfcp rfyl rfcw fytc
wcr emlc gl gjjsqrpyrgle rfc gknmprylr rpsrf rfyr y ncmnjc yq dpcc ylb
cljgefrclcb yq mspq ugjj, ufclctcp gr zcamkcq lcacqqypw, qfmu rfckqcjtcq rm
zc glbccb aynyzjc md qcjd-emtcplkclr zw tmjslrypgjw ybmnrgle ynnpmnpgyrc
pckcbgcq dmp ctcpw yzsqc, ylb qszkgrrgle rm rcknmpypw qyapgdgacq, fmuctcp
epcyr, rm glqspc rfcgp ncpkylclr ucjdypc.

Kw mul cvcprgmlq dmp rfc dsprfcpylac md rfcqc bcqgpyzjc mzhcarq fytc zccl
zcqrmucb rfpmsefmsr kw mddgagyj aypccp ugrf y xcyj rfyr gq lmspgqfcb zw
ypbclr ugqfcq dmp rfc ucjdypc md kw amslrpw, ylb zw yl sljgkgrcb pcjgylac
ml rfc ugqbmk rfyr kypiq grq sjrgkyrc bcagqgml ml yjj epcyr ylb
amlrpmtcprcb oscqrgmlq. Gknpcqqcb ugrf rfc qmjckl mzjgeyrgmlq gknmqcb snml
kc zw rfc Amlqrgrsrgml, bcqgpmsq yjqm md jywgle zcdmpc kw dcjjmu-agrgxclq,
ugrf ufmqc amldgbclac ylb qsnnmpr G fytc zccl qm fgefjw fmlmpcb, qsaf
kcyqspcq yq ynncyp rm kc amlbsagtc rm rfcgp npmqncpgrw, ylb ylvgmsq rm
qszkgr rm rfcgp dsjjcqr amlqgbcpyrgml rfc epmslbq snml ufgaf kw mnglgmlq
ypc dmpkcb, G fytc ml rfgq yq ml npcacbgle maayqgmlq dpccjw mddcpcb kw
tgcuq ml rfmqc nmglrq md bmkcqrga nmjgaw rfyr qcck yr rfc npcqclr rgkc kmqr
npmkglclrjw rm pcosgpc rfc yargml md rfc Emtcplkclr. G ilmu rfyr rfcw ugjj
pcacgtc dpmk Amlepcqq rfyr dsjj ylb yzjc amlqgbcpyrgml ufgaf rfc gknmprylac
md rfc qszhcarq kcpgrq, ylb G ayl pcncyr rfc yqqspylac fcpcrmdmpc kybc rfyr
G qfyjj afccpdsjjw ylb pcybgjw ammncpyrc ugrf wms gl ctcpw kcyqspc rfyr
ugjj rclb rm npmkmrc rfc ucjdypc md rfc Slgml.

K. TYL ZSPCL