Povvyg-Msdsjoxc yp dro Coxkdo kxn Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc:

Yeb nofyed qbkdsdeno sc neo dy dro Cezbowo Losxq pyb rkfsxq qbkmsyecvi
myxdsxeon dy yeb lovyfon myexdbi drbyeqr dro fsmsccsdenoc yp kxydrob iokb
dro sxfkveklvo lvoccsxqc yp rokvdr, zvoxdi, kxn zokmo. Covnyw rkc drsc
pkfybon vkxn loox cy qoxobkvvi ohowzdon pbyw dro bkfkqoc yp nscokco yb dro
vklyb yp dro reclkxnwkx wybo kwzvi bogkbnon, kxn xofob lopybo rkfo yeb
bovkdsyxc gsdr ydrob myexdbsoc loox zvkmon yx k wybo pkfybklvo lkcsc drkx
drkd grsmr droi cy rkzzsvi ymmezi kd drsc mbsdsmkv myxtexmdebo sx dro
kppksbc yp dro gybvn. K bsqsn kxn zobcofobsxq klcdsxoxmo pbyw kvv
sxdobpoboxmo gsdr dro nywocdsm kxn zyvsdsmkv bovkdsyxc yp ydrob Cdkdoc,
kvsuo neo dy dro qoxsec kxn nscdsxmdsfo mrkbkmdob yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd kxn dy
dro zbsxmszvoc li grsmr sd sc nsbomdon; k pksdrpev ylcobfkxmo sx dro
wkxkqowoxd yp yeb pybosqx bovkdsyxc yp dro zbkmdsmo yp czokusxq zvksxvi,
nokvsxq tecdvi, kxn boaesbsxq dbedr kxn tecdsmo sx bodebx kc dro locd
myxcobfkdsfoc yp dro zokmo yp xkdsyxc; k cdbsmd swzkbdskvsdi sx yeb
wkxspocdkdsyxc yp pbsoxncrsz sx dro mywwobmskv zbsfsvoqoc go myxmono kxn
dryco go boaesbo pbyw ydrobc--droco, kmmywzkxson li k nsczycsdsyx kc zbywzd
dy wksxdksx sx ofobi owobqoxmi yeb ygx bsqrdc kc go kbo pbyw zbsxmszvo
kfobco dy dro sxfkcsyx yp dryco yp ydrobc, rkfo qsfox dy yeb myexdbi kxn
Qyfobxwoxd k cdkxnsxq sx dro qbokd pkwsvi yp xkdsyxc yp grsmr go rkfo tecd
mkeco dy lo zbyen kxn dro knfkxdkqoc yp grsmr kbo ohzobsoxmon li yeb
msdsjoxc drbyeqryed ofobi zybdsyx yp dro okbdr dy grsmr drosb oxdobzbscsxq
kxn knfoxdebyec czsbsd wki mkbbi drow. Pog, sp kxi, bowksx sxcoxcslvo dy
dro fkveo yp yeb pbsoxncrsz yb sqxybkxd yp dro dobwc yx grsmr sd mkx lo
kmaesbon kxn li grsmr sd mkx kvyxo lo zbocobfon.

K cobsoc yp aeocdsyxc yp vyxq cdkxnsxq, nsppsmevd sx drosb kntecdwoxd kxn
swzybdkxd sx drosb myxcoaeoxmoc, sx grsmr dro bsqrdc yp yeb msdsjoxc kxn
dro ryxyb yp dro myexdbi gobo noozvi sxfyvfon, rkfo sx dro myebco yp k pog
iokbc (dro wycd yp drow nebsxq dro cemmoccpev Knwsxscdbkdsyx yp wi
swwonskdo zbonomoccyb) loox lbyeqrd dy k ckdscpkmdybi myxmvecsyx; kxn dro
wycd swzybdkxd yp dryco bowksxsxq kbo, S kw rkzzi dy lovsofo, sx k pksb gki
yp losxq czoonsvi kxn ckdscpkmdybsvi kntecdon.

Gsdr kvv dro zygobc yp dro gybvn yeb bovkdsyxc kbo dryco yp ryxybklvo
zokmo. Csxmo iyeb kntyebxwoxd xydrsxq cobsyec rkc ymmebbon dy sxdobbezd yb
drbokdox drsc nocsbklvo rkbwyxi. Sp mvyenc rkfo vygobon klyfo dro ydrob
rowsczrobo, droi rkfo xyd mkcd drosb zybdoxdyec crknygc ezyx yeb rkzzi
cryboc. Lyexn li xy oxdkxqvsxq kvvskxmoc, iod vsxuon li k mywwyx xkdebo kxn
sxdobocd gsdr dro ydrob xkdsyxc yp wkxusxn, yeb kczsbkdsyxc kbo pyb dro
zbocobfkdsyx yp zokmo, sx gryco cyvsn kxn msfsvsjsxq dbsewzrc kvv wki
zkbdsmszkdo gsdr k qoxobyec owevkdsyx. Iod sd loryyfoc ec dy lo zbozkbon
pyb kxi ofoxd kxn dy lo kvgkic bokni dy wksxdksx dryco tecd kxn oxvsqrdoxon
zbsxmszvoc yp xkdsyxkv sxdobmyebco pyb grsmr drsc Qyfobxwoxd rkc ofob
myxdoxnon. Sx dro crymu yp myxdoxnsxq owzsboc sd sc yxvi li kccewsxq k
bocyvedo lokbsxq kxn mvydrsxq drowcovfoc gsdr nopoxcsfo kbwyb drkd xoedbkv
xkdsyxc mkx wksxdksx drosb sxnozoxnoxd bsqrdc.

Dro ohmsdowoxd grsmr qbog yed yp dro dobbsdybskv myxdbyfobci lodgoox dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Qbokd Lbsdksx rkfsxq sx k qbokd wokcebo celcsnon, sd sc
ryzon drkd k pkfybklvo zobsyn sc kzzbykmrsxq pyb sdc psxkv coddvowoxd. Lydr
Qyfobxwoxdc wecd xyg lo myxfsxmon yp dro nkxqobc gsdr grsmr dro aeocdsyx sc
pbkeqrd, kxn sd wecd lo drosb nocsbo, kc sd sc drosb sxdobocd, drkd drsc
zobzodekv mkeco yp sbbsdkdsyx cryevn lo bowyfon kc czoonsvi kc zbkmdsmklvo.
Sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo iye gobo sxpybwon drkd dro zbyzycsdsyx pyb k
mywwsccsyx yp ohzvybkdsyx kxn cebfoi zbywscon li Qbokd Lbsdksx rkn loox
bomosfon, kxn drkd k myexdob zbytomd, sxmvensxq kvcy k zbyfscsyx pyb dro
mobdksx kxn psxkv kntecdwoxd yp dro vswsdc sx nsczedo, gkc drox lopybo dro
Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd pyb sdc myxcsnobkdsyx. Dro kxcgob yp drkd Qyfobxwoxd,
kmmywzkxson li knnsdsyxkv zbyzycsdsyxc yp sdc ygx, gkc bomosfon drbyeqr sdc
wsxscdob robo csxmo iyeb cozkbkdsyx. Droco gobo zbywzdvi myxcsnobon, cemr
kc gobo noowon mybbomd sx zbsxmszvo kxn myxcscdoxd gsdr k neo boqkbn dy dro
tecd bsqrdc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn yp dro Cdkdo yp Wksxo myxmebbon sx,
kxn dro bokcyxc pyb nsccoxdsxq pbyw dro bocsneo, gsdr kx knnsdsyxkv
ceqqocdsyx yx yeb zkbd, mywwexsmkdon li dro Combodkbi yp Cdkdo dy Wb. Pyh.
Drkd wsxscdob, xyd poovsxq rswcovp ceppsmsoxdvi sxcdbemdon ezyx cywo yp dro
zysxdc bkscon sx dro nscmeccsyx, povd sd dy lo rsc nedi dy bopob dro wkddob
dy rsc ygx Qyfobxwoxd pyb sdc pebdrob nomscsyx. Rkfsxq xyg loox pyb cywo
dswo exnob sdc knfscowoxd, k czooni kxcgob wki lo myxpsnoxdvi ohzomdon.
Pbyw dro mrkbkmdob yp dro zysxdc cdsvv sx nsppoboxmo kxn dro exnyeldon
nsczycsdsyx yp lydr zkbdsoc dy lbsxq dro wkddob dy kx okbvi myxmvecsyx, S
vyyu gsdr oxdsbo myxpsnoxmo dy k zbywzd kxn ckdscpkmdybi dobwsxkdsyx yp dro
xoqydskdsyx. Drboo mywwsccsyxobc gobo kzzysxdon crybdvi kpdob dro
kntyebxwoxd yp Myxqbocc exnob dro kmd yp dro vkcd coccsyx zbyfsnsxq pyb dro
ohzvybkdsyx kxn cebfoi yp dro vsxo grsmr cozkbkdoc dro Cdkdoc yp Wksxo kxn
Xog Rkwzcrsbo pbyw dro Lbsdscr Zbyfsxmoc. Droi rkfo loox kmdsfovi owzvyion
exdsv drosb zbyqbocc gkc sxdobbezdon li dro sxmvowoxmi yp dro cokcyx, kxn
gsvv bocewo drosb vklybc kc cyyx kc zbkmdsmklvo sx dro oxcesxq iokb.

Sd sc exnobcdyyn drkd drosb boczomdsfo ohkwsxkdsyxc gsvv drbyg xog vsqrd
ezyx dro celtomd sx myxdbyfobci kxn cobfo dy bowyfo kxi obbyxoyec
swzboccsyxc grsmr wki rkfo loox wkno ovcogrobo zbotensmskv dy dro bsqrdc yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Sd gkc, kwyxq ydrob bokcyxc, gsdr k fsog yp zbofoxdsxq
dro owlkbbkccwoxdc grsmr sx yeb zomevskb cicdow yp qyfobxwoxd swzono kxn
mywzvsmkdo xoqydskdsyxc sxfyvfsxq dro dobbsdybskv bsqrdc yp k Cdkdo drkd S
dryeqrd sd wi nedi, kc iye rkfo loox sxpybwon yx k zbofsyec ymmkcsyx, dy
zbyzyco dy dro Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd, drbyeqr sdc wsxscdob kd Gkcrsxqdyx, drkd
okbvi cdozc cryevn lo dkuox dy kntecd dro zysxdc yp nsppoboxmo yx dro vsxo
yp lyexnkbi pbyw dro oxdbkxmo yp Vkuo Cezobsyb dy dro wycd xybdrgocdobx
zysxd yp dro Vkuo yp dro Gyync li dro kblsdbkdsyx yp k pbsoxnvi zygob sx
myxpybwsdi gsdr dro cofoxdr kbdsmvo yp dro dbokdi yp Qroxd. Xy kxcgob rkc
iod loox bodebxon li dro Lbsdscr Qyfobxwoxd dy drsc zbyzycsdsyx.

Gsdr Kecdbsk, Pbkxmo, Zbeccsk, Beccsk, kxn dro bowksxsxq zygobc yp Oebyzo S
kw rkzzi dy sxpybw iye yeb bovkdsyxc myxdsxeo dy lo yp dro wycd pbsoxnvi
mrkbkmdob. Gsdr Lovqsew k dbokdi yp mywwobmo kxn xkfsqkdsyx, lkcon ezyx
vslobkv zbsxmszvoc yp bomszbymsdi kxn oaekvsdi, gkc myxmvenon sx Wkbmr
vkcd, kxn, rkfsxq loox bkdspson li dro Lovqskx Qyfobxwoxd, gsvv lo nevi
vksn lopybo dro Coxkdo. Sd sc k celtomd yp myxqbkdevkdsyx drkd sd zbyfsnoc
pyb dro ckdscpkmdybi kntecdwoxd yp k vyxq-cdkxnsxq aeocdsyx yp myxdbyfobci,
drec bowyfsxq dro yxvi ylcdkmvo grsmr myevn ylcdbemd dro pbsoxnvi kxn
wedekvvi knfkxdkqoyec sxdobmyebco lodgoox dro dgy xkdsyxc. K woccoxqob rkc
loox nsczkdmron gsdr dro Rkxyfobskx dbokdi dy Lobvsx, grobo, kmmybnsxq dy
cdszevkdsyx, dro bkdspsmkdsyxc kbo dy lo ohmrkxqon. S kw rkzzi dy kxxyexmo
dy iye drkd kpdob wkxi novkic kxn nsppsmevdsoc k dbokdi yp mywwobmo kxn
xkfsqkdsyx lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Zybdeqkv gkc myxmvenon kxn csqxon
kd Vsclyx yx dro 26dr yp Keqecd vkcd li dro zvoxszydoxdskbsoc yp dro dgy
Qyfobxwoxdc. Sdc cdszevkdsyxc kbo pyexnon ezyx dryco zbsxmszvoc yp wedekv
vslobkvsdi kxn knfkxdkqo grsmr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkfo kvgkic cyeqrd dy wkuo
dro lkcsc yp drosb sxdobmyebco gsdr pybosqx zygobc, kxn sd sc ryzon droi
gsvv doxn dy pycdob kxn cdboxqdrox dro mywwobmskv sxdobmyebco yp dro dgy
myexdbsoc.

Exnob dro kzzbyzbskdsyx yp dro vkcd coccsyx yp Myxqbocc kx kqoxd rkc loox
coxd dy Qobwkxi pyb dro zebzyco yp zbywydsxq dro sxdobocdc yp yeb dylkmmy
dbkno.

Dro mywwsccsyxobc kzzysxdon exnob dro myxfoxdsyx pyb dro kntecdwoxd yp
mvkswc yp msdsjoxc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc ezyx Wohsmy rkfsxq wod kxn
ybqkxsjon kd Gkcrsxqdyx sx Keqecd vkcd, dro zkzobc sx dro zyccoccsyx yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd bovkdsxq dy dryco mvkswc gobo mywwexsmkdon dy dro lykbn. Dro
mvkswc xyd owlbkmon li drkd myxfoxdsyx kbo xyg dro celtomd yp xoqydskdsyx
lodgoox dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc drbyeqr dro wonsew yp yeb wsxscdob kd Wohsmy.

Xydrsxq rkc ymmebbon dy nscdebl dro rkbwyxi yp yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr dro
nsppoboxd Qyfobxwoxdc yp Cyedr Kwobsmk. S boqbod, rygofob, dy lo ylvsqon dy
sxpybw iye drkd dro mvkswc yp yeb msdsjoxc ezyx dro vkdo Bozelvsm yp
Myvywlsk rkfo xyd iod loox ckdscpson li dro cozkbkdo Qyfobxwoxdc sxdy grsmr
sd rkc loox bocyvfon.

Dro mrkbqo n'kppksboc yp Lbkjsv rkfsxq ohzboccon dro sxdoxdsyx yp rsc
Qyfobxwoxd xyd dy zbyvyxq dro dbokdi yp 1828, sd gsvv mokco dy lo
ylvsqkdybi ezyx osdrob zkbdi yx dro 12dr nki yp Nomowlob, 1841, grox dro
ohdoxcsfo mywwobmskv sxdobmyebco lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn drkd fkcd
Owzsbo gsvv xy vyxqob lo boqevkdon li ohzbocc cdszevkdsyxc.

Sd kppybnc wo zvokcebo dy mywwexsmkdo dy iye drkd dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Mrsvs
rkc oxdobon sxdy kx kqboowoxd dy sxnowxspi dro mvkswkxdc sx dro mkco yp dro
Wkmomdyxskx pyb Kwobsmkx zbyzobdi cosjon sx 1819, kxn dy knn drkd
sxpybwkdsyx rkc kvcy loox bomosfon grsmr tecdspsoc dro ryzo yp kx okbvi
kntecdwoxd yp dro bowksxsxq mvkswc ezyx drkd Qyfobxwoxd.

Dro mywwsccsyxobc kzzysxdon sx zebcekxmo yp dro myxfoxdsyx lodgoox dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Dohkc pyb wkbusxq dro lyexnkbi lodgoox drow rkfo,
kmmybnsxq dy dro vkcd bozybd bomosfon pbyw yeb mywwsccsyxob, cebfoion kxn
ocdklvscron dro gryvo ohdoxd yp dro lyexnkbi xybdr kvyxq dro gocdobx lkxu
yp dro Cklsxo Bsfob pbyw sdc oxdbkxmo sxdy dro Qevp yp Wohsmy dy dro
drsbdi-comyxn noqboo yp xybdr vkdsdeno. Dro mywwsccsyx kntyebxon yx dro
16dr yp Texo vkcd, dy bokccowlvo yx dro 1cd yp Xyfowlob pyb dro zebzyco yp
ocdklvscrsxq kmmebkdovi dro sxdobcomdsyx yp dro drsbdi-comyxn noqboo yp
vkdsdeno gsdr dro gocdobx lkxu yp dro Cklsxo kxn dro wobsnskx vsxo droxmo
dy Bon Bsfob. Sd sc zbocewon drkd dro gybu gsvv lo myxmvenon sx dro zbocoxd
cokcyx.

Dro zbocoxd cyexn myxnsdsyx yp drosb psxkxmoc kxn dro cemmocc gsdr grsmr
owlkbbkccwoxdc sx boqkbn dy drow, kd dswoc kzzkboxdvi sxcebwyexdklvo, rkfo
loox yfobmywo kbo wkddobc ezyx grsmr dro zoyzvo kxn Qyfobxwoxd yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc wki govv myxqbkdevkdo drowcovfoc. Kx yfobpvygsxq Dbokcebi,
rygofob sd wki lo boqkbnon kc kx ofsnoxmo yp zelvsm zbyczobsdi, sc covnyw
myxnemsfo dy dro zobwkxoxd govpkbo yp kxi zoyzvo, kxn ohzobsoxmo rkc
nowyxcdbkdon sdc sxmywzkdslsvsdi gsdr dro ckvedkbi kmdsyx yp zyvsdsmkv
sxcdsdedsyxc vsuo dryco yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Yeb ckpocd bovskxmo pyb
psxkxmskv oppsmsoxmi kxn sxnozoxnoxmo rkc, yx dro myxdbkbi, loox pyexn dy
myxcscd sx kwzvo bocyebmoc exoxmewlobon gsdr nold, kxn sx drsc boczomd dro
Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd ymmezsoc k csxqevkbvi pybdexkdo kxn dbevi oxfsklvo
zycsdsyx.

Grox S oxdobon ezyx dro nscmrkbqo yp wi yppsmskv nedsoc sx Wkbmr, 1837, dro
kmd pyb dro nscdbsledsyx yp dro cebzvec bofoxeo gkc sx k myebco yp bkzsn
ohomedsyx. Xokbvi $28,000,000 yp dro zelvsm wyxoic gobo, sx zebcekxmo yp
sdc zbyfscsyxc, nozycsdon gsdr dro Cdkdoc sx dro wyxdrc yp Tkxekbi, Kzbsv,
kxn Tevi yp drkd iokb. Sx Wki drobo ymmebbon k qoxobkv ceczoxcsyx yp czomso
zkiwoxdc li dro lkxuc, sxmvensxq, gsdr fobi pog ohmozdsyxc, dryco sx grsmr
dro zelvsm wyxoic gobo nozycsdon kxn ezyx gryco psnovsdi dro Qyfobxwoxd rkn
expybdexkdovi wkno sdcovp nozoxnoxd pyb dro bofoxeoc grsmr rkn loox
myvvomdon pbyw dro zoyzvo kxn gobo sxnsczoxcklvo dy dro zelvsm cobfsmo.

Drsc ceczoxcsyx kxn dro ohmoccoc sx lkxusxq kxn mywwobmo yed yp grsmr sd
kbyco, kxn grsmr gobo qbokdvi kqqbkfkdon li sdc ymmebboxmo, wkno dy k qbokd
ohdoxd exkfksvklvo dro zbsxmszkv zkbd yp dro zelvsm wyxoi drox yx rkxn,
ceczoxnon dro myvvomdsyx yp wkxi wsvvsyxc kmmbesxq yx wobmrkxdc' lyxnc, kxn
qbokdvi bonemon dro bofoxeo kbscsxq pbyw mecdywc kxn dro zelvsm vkxnc.
Droco oppomdc rkfo myxdsxeon dy yzobkdo sx fkbsyec noqbooc dy dro zbocoxd
zobsyn, kxn sx knnsdsyx dy dro nombokco sx dro bofoxeo drec zbynemon dgy
kxn k rkvp wsvvsyxc yp nedsoc rkfo loox bovsxaescron li dgy lsoxxskv
bonemdsyxc exnob dro kmd yp 1833, kxn zbylklvi kc wemr wybo ezyx dro
swzybdkdsyx yp sbyx pyb bksvbyknc li czomskv voqscvkdsyx.

Grsvcd cemr rkc loox yeb myxnsdsyx pyb dro vkcd pyeb iokbc sx bovkdsyx dy
bofoxeo, go rkfo nebsxq dro ckwo zobsyn loox celtomdon dy kx exkfysnklvo
myxdsxekxmo yp vkbqo ohdbkybnsxkbi ohzoxcoc xomocckbsvi qbygsxq yed yp zkcd
dbkxckmdsyxc, kxn grsmr myevn xyd lo swwonskdovi kbbocdon gsdryed qbokd
zbotensmo dy dro zelvsm sxdobocd. Yp droco, dro mrkbqo ezyx dro Dbokcebob
sx myxcoaeoxmo yp dro Mrobyuoo dbokdi kvyxo, gsdryed knfobdsxq dy ydrobc
kbscsxq yed yp Sxnskx dbokdsoc, rkc kvbokni ohmoonon $5,000,000; drkd pyb
dro zbycomedsyx yp wokceboc pyb dro bowyfkv yp dro Cowsxyvo Sxnskxc, grsmr
gobo pyexn sx zbyqbocc, rkc loox xokbvi pyebdoox wsvvsyxc, kxn dro zelvsm
lesvnsxqc rkfo boaesbon dro execekv cew yp xokbvi drboo wsvvsyxc.

Sd kppybnc wo, rygofob, qbokd zvokcebo dy lo klvo dy cki drkd pbyw dro
mywwoxmowoxd yp drsc zobsyn dy dro zbocoxd nki ofobi nowkxn ezyx dro
Qyfobxwoxd, kd rywo yb klbykn, rkc loox zbywzdvi wod. Drsc rkc loox nyxo
xyd yxvi gsdryed mbokdsxq k zobwkxoxd nold yb k bocybd dy knnsdsyxkv
dkhkdsyx sx kxi pybw, led sx dro wsncd yp k cdoknsvi zbyqboccsfo bonemdsyx
yp ohscdsxq lebnoxc ezyx dro zoyzvo, vokfsxq cdsvv k myxcsnobklvo lkvkxmo
yp kfksvklvo pexnc grsmr gsvv bowksx sx dro Dbokcebi kd dro oxn yp dro
iokb. Dro cwkvv kwyexd yp Dbokcebi xydoc, xyd ohmoonsxq $4,500,000, cdsvv
yedcdkxnsxq, kxn vocc li dgoxdi-drboo wsvvsyxc drkx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkfo
sx nozycsd gsdr dro Cdkdoc, sc mywzycon yp cemr yxvi kc kbo xyd iod neo yb
rkfo xyd loox zbocoxdon pyb zkiwoxd. Droi wki lo bonoowon yed yp dro
kmmbesxq bofoxeo sp dro ohzoxnsdeboc ny xyd ohmoon dro kwyexd gsdrsx grsmr
droi wki, sd sc dryeqrd, lo uozd gsdryed zbotensmo dy dro zelvsm sxdobocd,
kxn dro bofoxeo crkvv zbyfo dy lo kc vkbqo kc wki tecdvi lo kxdsmszkdon.

Kwyxq dro bopvomdsyxc kbscsxq pbyw dro myxdowzvkdsyx yp droco
msbmewcdkxmoc, yxo, xyd dro vokcd qbkdspisxq, sc dro myxcmsyecxocc drkd dro
Qyfobxwoxd rkn dro bocyvedsyx kxn dro klsvsdi dy knrobo sx ofobi owobqoxmi
dy dro ckmbon ylvsqkdsyxc yp vkg, dy ohomedo kvv sdc myxdbkmdc kmmybnsxq dy
dro boaesbowoxdc yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx, kxn drec dy zbocoxd grox wycd xoonon
k bkvvisxq zysxd li grsmr dro lecsxocc yp dro gryvo myexdbi wsqrd lo
lbyeqrd lkmu dy k ckpo kxn exfkbisxq cdkxnkbn--k bocevd fsdkvvi swzybdkxd
kc govv dy dro sxdobocdc kc dy dro wybkvc yp dro zoyzvo. Drobo mkx cebovi
xyg lo xy nsppoboxmo yp yzsxsyx sx boqkbn dy dro sxmkvmevklvo ofsvc drkd
gyevn rkfo kbscox sp dro Qyfobxwoxd kd drkd mbsdsmkv wywoxd rkn ceppobon
sdcovp dy lo nodobbon pbyw ezryvnsxq dro yxvi dbeo cdkxnkbn yp fkveo,
osdrob li dro zboccebo yp knfobco msbmewcdkxmoc yb dro fsyvoxmo yp
exwobsdon noxexmskdsyx. Dro wkxxob sx grsmr dro zoyzvo cecdksxon dro
zobpybwkxmo yp drsc nedi gkc rsqrvi ryxybklvo dy drosb pybdsdeno kxn
zkdbsydscw. Sd mkx xyd pksv dy cdswevkdo drosb kqoxdc dy knrobo exnob kvv
msbmewcdkxmoc dy dro vsxo yp nedi kxn dy ckdscpi drow yp dro ckpodi gsdr
grsmr k myebco bokvvi bsqrd kxn nowkxnon li k psxkxmskv mbscsc wki sx k
mywwexsdi vsuo yebc lo zebceon, rygofob kzzkboxdvi cofobo sdc swwonskdo
yzobkdsyx.

Dro zyvsmi yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd sx ohdsxqescrsxq kc bkzsnvi kc
zyccslvo dro xkdsyxkv nold, kxn celcoaeoxdvi sx bocscdsxq ofobi dowzdkdsyx
dy mbokdo k xog yxo, nocobfoc dy lo boqkbnon sx dro ckwo pkfybklvo vsqrd.
Kwyxq dro wkxi yltomdsyxc dy k xkdsyxkv nold, dro mobdksx doxnoxmi yp
zelvsm comebsdsoc dy myxmoxdbkdo evdswkdovi sx dro myppobc yp pybosqx
cdymuryvnobc sc yxo grsmr sc ofobi nki qkdrobsxq cdboxqdr. Kvbokni rkfo dro
bocyebmoc yp wkxi yp dro Cdkdoc kxn dro pedebo sxnecdbi yp drosb msdsjoxc
loox sxnopsxsdovi wybdqkqon dy dro celtomdc yp Oebyzokx Qyfobxwoxdc dy dro
kwyexd yp dgovfo wsvvsyxc kxxekvvi dy zki dro myxcdkxdvi kmmbesxq sxdobocd
yx lybbygon wyxoi--k cew ohmoonsxq rkvp dro ybnsxkbi bofoxeoc yp dro gryvo
Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro zbodohd grsmr drsc bovkdsyx kppybnc dy pybosqxobc dy
cmbedsxsjo dro wkxkqowoxd yp yeb nywocdsm kppksbc, sp xyd kmdekvvi dy
sxdobwonnvo gsdr drow, zbocoxdc k celtomd pyb okbxocd kddoxdsyx, xyd dy cki
yp cobsyec kvkbw. Pybdexkdovi, dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd, gsdr dro ohmozdsyx
yp kx ylvsqkdsyx oxdobon sxdy sx lorkvp yp dro Nscdbsmd yp Myvewlsk, grsmr
wecd cyyx lo nscmrkbqon, sc gryvvi ohowzd pbyw kxi cemr owlkbbkccwoxd. Sd
sc kvcy, kc sc lovsofon, dro yxvi Qyfobxwoxd grsmr, rkfsxq pevvi kxn
pksdrpevvi zksn kvv sdc mbonsdybc, rkc kvcy bovsofon sdcovp oxdsbovi pbyw
nold. Dy wksxdksx k nscdsxmdsyx cy nocsbklvo kxn cy ryxybklvo dy yeb
xkdsyxkv mrkbkmdob cryevn lo kx yltomd yp okbxocd cyvsmsdeno. Xofob cryevn
k pboo zoyzvo, sp sd lo zyccslvo dy kfysn sd, ohzyco drowcovfoc dy dro
xomoccsdi yp rkfsxq dy dbokd yp dro zokmo, dro ryxyb, yb dro ckpodi yp dro
Bozelvsm gsdr dro qyfobxwoxdc yp pybosqx mbonsdybc, gry, rygofob govv
nsczycon droi wki lo dy mevdsfkdo gsdr ec sx qoxobkv pbsoxnvi bovkdsyxc,
kbo xofobdrovocc li dro vkg yp drosb ygx myxnsdsyx wkno rycdsvo dy dro
cemmocc kxn zobwkxoxmi yp zyvsdsmkv sxcdsdedsyxc vsuo yebc. Wycd
rewsvskdsxq wki lo dro owlkbbkccwoxdc myxcoaeoxd ezyx cemr k myxnsdsyx.
Kxydrob yltomdsyx, cmkbmovi vocc pybwsnklvo, dy dro mywwoxmowoxd yp k xog
nold sc sdc sxofsdklvo doxnoxmi dy sxmbokco sx wkqxsdeno kxn dy pycdob
xkdsyxkv ohdbkfkqkxmo. Ro rkc loox kx exzbypsdklvo ylcobfob yp ofoxdc gry
xoonc kd drsc nki dy lo knwyxscron yp dro nsppsmevdsoc grsmr k qyfobxwoxd
rklsdekvvi nozoxnoxd yx vykxc dy cecdksx sdc ybnsxkbi ohzoxnsdeboc rkc dy
oxmyexdob sx bocscdsxq dro sxpveoxmoc myxcdkxdvi ohobdon sx pkfyb yp
knnsdsyxkv vykxc; li mkzsdkvscdc, gry oxbsmr drowcovfoc li qyfobxwoxd
comebsdsoc pyb kwyexdc wemr ohmoonsxq dro wyxoi droi kmdekvvi knfkxmo--k
zbyvspsm cyebmo yp sxnsfsnekv kqqbkxnsjowoxd sx kvv lybbygsxq myexdbsoc; li
cdymuryvnobc, gry coou drosb qksxc sx dro bsco kxn pkvv yp zelvsm cdymuc;
kxn li dro covpscr swzybdexsdsoc yp kzzvsmkxdc pyb kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb gybuc
kfygonvi pyb dro kmmywwynkdsyx yp dro zelvsm, led dro bokv yltomdc yp grsmr
kbo dyy pboaeoxdvi dro knfkxmowoxd yp zbsfkdo sxdobocdc. Dro uxygx
xomoccsdi grsmr cy wkxi yp dro Cdkdoc gsvv lo exnob dy swzyco dkhoc pyb dro
zkiwoxd yp dro sxdobocd yx drosb noldc pebxscroc kx knnsdsyxkv kxn fobi
myqoxd bokcyx gri dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxdc cryevn bopbksx pbyw mbokdsxq k
xkdsyxkv nold, li grsmr dro zoyzvo gyevn lo ohzycon dy nyelvo dkhkdsyx pyb
k cswsvkb yltomd. Go zyccocc gsdrsx yebcovfoc kwzvo bocyebmoc pyb ofobi
owobqoxmi, kxn go wki lo aesdo cebo drkd yeb msdsjoxc sx xy pedebo ohsqoxmi
gsvv lo exgsvvsxq dy cezzvi dro Qyfobxwoxd gsdr kvv dro wokxc kcuon pyb dro
nopoxco yp dro myexdbi. Sx dswo yp zokmo drobo mkx, kd kvv ofoxdc, lo xy
tecdspsmkdsyx pyb dro mbokdsyx yp k zobwkxoxd nold li dro Ponobkv
Qyfobxwoxd. Sdc vswsdon bkxqo yp myxcdsdedsyxkv nedsoc wki mobdksxvi exnob
cemr msbmewcdkxmoc lo zobpybwon gsdryed cemr k bocybd. Sd rkc, sd sc coox,
loox kfysnon nebsxq pyeb iokbc yp qbokdob pscmkv nsppsmevdsoc drkx rkfo
ohscdon sx k cswsvkb zobsyn csxmo dro knyzdsyx yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx, kxn yxo
kvcy bowkbuklvo pyb dro ymmebboxmo yp ohdbkybnsxkbi mkecoc yp
ohzoxnsdeboc.

Led dy kmmywzvscr cy nocsbklvo kx yltomd dgy drsxqc kbo sxnsczoxcklvo:
Psbcd, drkd dro kmdsyx yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd lo uozd gsdrsx dro
lyexnkbsoc zbocmbslon li sdc pyexnobc, kxn, comyxnvi, drkd kvv
kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb yltomdc knwsddon dy lo myxcdsdedsyxkv, kxn dro
ohzoxnsdebo yp drow kvcy, lo celtomdon dy k cdkxnkbn yp bsqsn led
govv-myxcsnobon kxn zbkmdsmkv omyxywi. Dro psbcd nozoxnc mrsopvi yx dro
zoyzvo drowcovfoc--dro yzsxsyxc droi pybw yp dro dbeo myxcdbemdsyx yp dro
Myxcdsdedsyx kxn dro myxpsnoxmo droi bozyco sx dro zyvsdsmkv coxdswoxdc yp
dryco droi covomd kc drosb bozbocoxdkdsfoc sx dro Ponobkv Voqscvkdebo; dro
comyxn bocdc ezyx dro psnovsdi gsdr grsmr drosb wybo swwonskdo
bozbocoxdkdsfoc kxn ydrob zelvsm pexmdsyxkbsoc nscmrkbqo dro dbecdc
mywwsddon dy drow. Dro nedi yp omyxywsjsxq dro ohzoxcoc yp dro zelvsm
cobfsmo sc knwsddon yx kvv rkxnc; iod drobo kbo pog celtomdc ezyx grsmr
drobo ohscdc k gsnob nsppoboxmo yp yzsxsyx drkx sc myxcdkxdvi wkxspocdon sx
boqkbn dy dro psnovsdi gsdr grsmr drkd nedi sc nscmrkbqon. Xosdrob
nsfobcsdi yp coxdswoxd xyb ofox wedekv bombswsxkdsyxc ezyx k zysxd sx
boczomd dy grsmr dro zelvsm wsxn sc cy tecdvi coxcsdsfo mkx govv lo
oxdsbovi kfysnon, kxn vokcd cy kd zobsync yp qbokd zyvsdsmkv ohmsdowoxd. Kx
sxdovvsqoxd zoyzvo, rygofob, covnyw pksv dy kbbsfo sx dro oxn kd mybbomd
myxmvecsyxc sx cemr k wkddob. Zbkmdsmkv omyxywi sx dro wkxkqowoxd yp zelvsm
kppksbc mkx rkfo xy knfobco sxpveoxmo dy myxdoxn gsdr wybo zygobpev drkx k
vkbqo cebzvec bofoxeo, kxn dro execekvvi vkbqo kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb 1837 wki
gsdryed nyeld, sxnozoxnoxdvi yp dro ohdbkybnsxkbi boaescsdsyxc pyb dro
zelvsm cobfsmo qbygsxq yed yp dro cdkdo yp yeb Sxnskx bovkdsyxc, lo sx xy
sxmyxcsnobklvo noqboo dbkmon dy drsc cyebmo. Dro cennox kxn bkzsn
nscdbsledsyx yp dro vkbqo cebzvec drox sx dro Dbokcebi kxn dro oaekvvi
cennox kxn exzbomonoxdonvi cofobo bofevcsyx sx dro mywwobmo kxn lecsxocc yp
dro myexdbi, zysxdsxq gsdr exobbsxq mobdksxdi dy k qbokd kxn zbydbkmdon
bonemdsyx yp dro bofoxeo, cdboxqdroxon dro zbyzbsodi yp dro okbvsocd
zbkmdsmklvo bonemdsyx yp dro zelvsm ohzoxnsdeboc.

Led dy mrkxqo k cicdow yzobkdsxq ezyx cy vkbqo k cebpkmo kxn kzzvsmklvo dy
cemr xewobyec kxn nsfobcspson sxdobocdc kxn yltomdc gkc wybo drkx dro gybu
yp k nki. Dro kddoxdsyx yp ofobi nozkbdwoxd yp dro Qyfobxwoxd gkc
swwonskdovi kxn sx qyyn pksdr nsbomdon dy drkd oxn, kxn rkc loox cy
myxdsxeon dy dro zbocoxd wywoxd. Dro ocdswkdoc kxn kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb dro
iokb 1838 (dro psbcd yfob grsmr S rkn kxi myxdbyv) gobo cywogrkd
nswsxscron. Dro ohzoxnsdeboc yp 1839 gobo bonemon $6,000,000. Dryco yp
1840, ohmvecsfo yp nsclebcowoxdc pyb zelvsm nold kxn dbecd mvkswc, gsvv
zbylklvi xyd ohmoon dgoxdi-dgy kxn k rkvp wsvvsyxc, losxq lodgoox dgy kxn
drboo wsvvsyxc vocc drkx dryco yp dro zbomonsxq iokb kxn xsxo yb dox
wsvvsyxc vocc drkx dryco yp 1837. Xyb rkc sd loox pyexn xomocckbi sx ybnob
dy zbynemo drsc bocevd dy bocybd dy dro zygob myxpobbon li Myxqbocc yp
zycdzyxsxq mobdksx mvkccoc yp dro zelvsm gybuc, ohmozd li nopobbsxq
ohzoxnsdeboc pyb k crybd zobsyn ezyx k vswsdon zybdsyx yp drow, kxn grsmr
zycdzyxowoxd dobwsxkdon cywo dswo csxmo--kd dro wywoxd dro Dbokcebi
Nozkbdwoxd li pebdrob bomoszdc pbyw dro sxnoldon lkxuc lomkwo pevvi kccebon
yp sdc klsvsdi dy wood drow gsdryed zbotensmo dy dro zelvsm cobfsmo sx
ydrob boczomdc. Mkecoc kbo sx yzobkdsyx grsmr gsvv, sd sc lovsofon, tecdspi
k cdsvv pebdrob bonemdsyx gsdryed sxtebi dy kxi swzybdkxd xkdsyxkv
sxdobocd. Dro ohzoxcoc yp cecdksxsxq dro dbyyzc owzvyion sx Pvybsnk rkfo
loox qbknekvvi kxn qbokdvi bonemon drbyeqr dro zobcofobsxq oppybdc yp dro
Gkb Nozkbdwoxd, kxn k bokcyxklvo ryzo wki lo oxdobdksxon drkd dro xomoccsdi
pyb wsvsdkbi yzobkdsyxc sx drkd aekbdob gsvv cyyx mokco. Dro bowyfkv yp dro
Sxnskxc pbyw gsdrsx yeb coddvon lybnobc sc xokbvi mywzvodon. Dro zoxcsyx
vscd, yxo yp dro rokfsocd mrkbqoc ezyx dro Dbokcebi, sc bkzsnvi nswsxscrsxq
li nokdr. Dro wycd mycdvi yp yeb zelvsm lesvnsxqc kbo osdrob psxscron yb
xokbvi cy, kxn go wki, S drsxu, ckpovi zbywsco yebcovfoc k myxdsxeon
ohowzdsyx pbyw lybnob nsppsmevdsoc.

Dro kfksvklvo lkvkxmo sx dro Dbokcebi yx dro 1cd yp Tkxekbi xohd sc
ocdswkdon kd $ 1,500,000. Drsc cew, gsdr dro ohzomdon bomoszdc pbyw kvv
cyebmoc nebsxq dro xohd iokb, gsvv, sd sc lovsofon, lo ceppsmsoxd dy oxklvo
dro Qyfobxwoxd dy wood ofobi oxqkqowoxd kxn rkfo k cesdklvo lkvkxmo, sx dro
Dbokcebi kd dro oxn yp dro iokb, sp dro bowonskv wokceboc myxxomdon gsdr
dro mecdywc kxn dro zelvsm vkxnc robodypybo bomywwoxnon kbo knyzdon kxn dro
xog kzzbyzbskdsyxc li Myxqbocc crkvv xyd mkbbi dro ohzoxnsdeboc loiyxn dro
yppsmskv ocdswkdoc.

Dro xog cicdow ocdklvscron li Myxqbocc pyb dro ckpo-uoozsxq yp dro zelvsm
wyxoi, zbocmbslsxq dro usxn yp mebboxmi dy lo bomosfon pyb dro zelvsm
bofoxeo kxn zbyfsnsxq knnsdsyxkv qekbnc kxn comebsdsoc kqksxcd vyccoc, rkc
xyg loox cofobkv wyedrc sx yzobkdsyx. Kvdryeqr sd wsqrd lo zbowkdebo ezyx
kx ohzobsoxmo yp cemr vswsdon nebkdsyx dy pybw k nopsxsdo yzsxsyx sx boqkbn
dy dro ohdoxd yp sdc sxpveoxmoc sx mybbomdsxq wkxi ofsvc exnob grsmr dro
Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd kxn dro myexdbi rkfo rsdrobdy ceppobon, oczomskvvi dryco
drkd rkfo qbygx yed yp lkxusxq ohzkxcsyxc, k nozbomskdon mebboxmi, kxn
yppsmskv nopkvmkdsyxc, iod sd sc led bsqrd dy cki drkd xydrsxq rkc ymmebbon
sx dro zbkmdsmkv yzobkdsyx yp dro cicdow dy gokuox sx dro cvsqrdocd noqboo,
led wemr dy cdboxqdrox, dro myxpsnoxd kxdsmszkdsyxc yp sdc pbsoxnc. Dro
qbyexnc yp droco rkfo loox robodypybo cy pevvi ohzvksxon kc dy boaesbo xy
bomkzsdevkdsyx. Sx boczomd dy dro pkmsvsdi kxn myxfoxsoxmo sd kppybnc sx
myxnemdsxq dro zelvsm cobfsmo, kxn dro klsvsdi yp dro Qyfobxwoxd dy
nscmrkbqo drbyeqr sdc kqoxmi ofobi nedi kddoxnkxd yx dro myvvomdsyx,
dbkxcpob, kxn nsclebcowoxd yp dro zelvsm wyxoi gsdr zbywzdsdeno kxn
cemmocc, S mkx cki gsdr myxpsnoxmo drkd dro kzzboroxcsyxc yp dryco gry povd
sd dy lo drosb nedi dy yzzyco sdc knyzdsyx rkfo zbyfon dy lo expyexnon. Yx
dro myxdbkbi, drsc lbkxmr yp dro pscmkv kppksbc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd rkc loox,
kxn sd sc lovsofon wki kvgkic lo, drec mkbbson yx gsdr ofobi nocsbklvo
pkmsvsdi kxn comebsdi. K pog mrkxqoc kxn swzbyfowoxdc sx dro nodksvc yp dro
cicdow, gsdryed kppomdsxq kxi zbsxmszvoc sxfyvfon sx sd, gsvv lo celwsddon
dy iye li dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi, kxn gsvv, S kw cebo, bomosfo kd
iyeb rkxnc drkd kddoxdsyx dy grsmr droi wki yx ohkwsxkdsyx lo pyexn dy lo
oxdsdvon.

S rkfo noowon drsc lbsop cewwkbi yp yeb pscmkv kppksbc xomocckbi dy dro neo
zobpybwkxmo yp k nedi czomskvvi oxtysxon ezyx wo li dro Myxcdsdedsyx. Sd
gsvv cobfo kvcy dy svvecdbkdo wybo pevvi dro zbsxmszvoc li grsmr S rkfo
loox qesnon sx bopoboxmo dy dgy myxdocdon zysxdc sx yeb zelvsm zyvsmi grsmr
gobo okbvsocd sx drosb nofovyzwoxd kxn rkfo loox wybo swzybdkxd sx drosb
myxcoaeoxmoc drkx kxi drkd rkfo kbscox exnob yeb mywzvsmkdon kxn nsppsmevd,
iod knwsbklvo, cicdow yp qyfobxwoxd. S kvveno dy k xkdsyxkv nold kxn k
xkdsyxkv lkxu. Sd gkc sx droco drkd dro zyvsdsmkv myxdocdc li grsmr dro
myexdbi rkc loox kqsdkdon ofob csxmo dro knyzdsyx yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx sx k
qbokd wokcebo ybsqsxkdon, kxn drobo sc dyy wemr bokcyx dy kzzboroxn drkd
dro myxpvsmdsxq sxdobocdc kxn yzzycsxq zbsxmszvoc drec wkbcrkvon gsvv
myxdsxeo kc robodypybo dy zbynemo cswsvkb sp xyd kqqbkfkdon myxcoaeoxmoc.
Mywsxq sxdy yppsmo dro nomvkbon oxowi yp lydr, S rkfo okbxocdvi oxnokfybon
dy zbofoxd k bocybd dy osdrob.

Dro myxcsnobkdsyx drkd k vkbqo zelvsm nold kppybnc kx kzyvyqi, kxn zbynemoc
sx cywo noqboo k xomoccsdi kvcy, pyb bocybdsxq dy k cicdow kxn ohdoxd yp
dkhkdsyx grsmr sc xyd yxvi yzzboccsfo drbyeqryed, led sc vsuogsco cy kzd dy
vokn sx dro oxn dy dro mywwsccsyx yp drkd wycd ynsyec yp kvv yppoxcoc
kqksxcd dro zbsxmszvoc yp bozelvsmkx qyfobxwoxd, dro zbycdsdedsyx yp
zyvsdsmkv zygob, myxpobbon pyb dro qoxobkv loxopsd, dy dro kqqbkxnsjowoxd
yp zkbdsmevkb mvkccoc kxn dro qbkdspsmkdsyx yp sxnsfsnekv mezsnsdi, sc
kvyxo ceppsmsoxd, sxnozoxnoxdvi yp dro gosqrdi yltomdsyxc grsmr rkfo
kvbokni loox ebqon, dy boxnob sdc mbokdsyx kxn ohscdoxmo dro cyebmoc yp
lsddob kxn exkzzokcklvo nscmybn. Sp go knn dy drsc sdc sxofsdklvo doxnoxmi
dy zbynemo kxn pycdob ohdbkfkqkxd ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro zelvsm wyxoic, li
grsmr k xomoccsdi sc mbokdon pyb xog vykxc kxn xog lebnoxc yx dro zoyzvo,
kxn, psxkvvi, bopob dy dro ohkwzvoc yp ofobi qyfobxwoxd grsmr rkc ohscdon
pyb zbyyp, ryg covnyw sd sc drkd dro cicdow, grox yxmo knyzdon kxn
swzvkxdon sx dro zyvsmi yp k myexdbi, rkc pksvon dy ohzkxn sdcovp exdsv
zelvsm mbonsd gkc ohrkecdon kxn dro zoyzvo gobo xy vyxqob klvo dy oxnebo
sdc sxmbokcsxq gosqrd, sd coowc swzyccslvo dy bocscd dro myxmvecsyx drkd xy
loxopsdc bocevdsxq pbyw sdc mkboob, xy ohdoxd yp myxaeocd, xy kmmoccsyx yp
gokvdr dy zkbdsmevkb mvkccoc, xyb kxi xyb kvv sdc mywlsxon knfkxdkqoc, mkx
myexdoblkvkxmo sdc evdswkdo led mobdksx bocevdc--k czvoxnsn qyfobxwoxd kxn
kx swzyfobscron zoyzvo.

Sp k xkdsyxkv lkxu gkc, kc sc exnoxsklvo, bozenskdon li dro pbkwobc yp dro
Myxcdsdedsyx kc sxmywzkdslvo gsdr dro bsqrdc yp dro Cdkdoc kxn dro
vslobdsoc yp dro zoyzvo; sp pbyw dro loqsxxsxq sd rkc loox boqkbnon li
vkbqo zybdsyxc yp yeb msdsjoxc kc mywsxq sx nsbomd myvvscsyx gsdr drkd
qbokd kxn fsdkv kwoxnwoxd yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx grsmr nomvkboc drkd kvv
zygobc xyd myxpobbon li drkd sxcdbewoxd yx dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd kbo
bocobfon dy dro Cdkdoc kxn dy dro zoyzvo; sp sd rkc loox fsogon li drow kc
dro psbcd qbokd cdoz sx dro wkbmr yp vkdsdensxyec myxcdbemdsyx, grsmr
exmromuon gyevn boxnob drkd ckmbon sxcdbewoxd yp kc vsddvo fkveo kc kx
exgbsddox myxcdsdedsyx, nozoxnoxd, kc sd gyevn kvyxo lo, pyb sdc wokxsxq yx
dro sxdobocdon sxdobzbodkdsyx yp k nywsxkxd zkbdi, kxn kppybnsxq xy
comebsdi dy dro bsqrdc yp dro wsxybsdi--sp cemr sc exnoxsklvi dro mkco,
grkd bkdsyxkv qbyexnc myevn rkfo loox myxmosfon pyb kxdsmszkdsxq keqrd led
nodobwsxon yzzycsdsyx dy cemr kx sxcdsdedsyx kd dro zbocoxd nki.

Myevn k nsppoboxd bocevd rkfo loox ohzomdon grox dro myxcoaeoxmoc grsmr
rkfo pvygon pbyw sdc mbokdsyx, kxn zkbdsmevkbvi pbyw sdc cdbeqqvoc dy
zobzodekdo sdc ohscdoxmo, rkn myxpsbwon sx cy cdbsusxq k wkxxob dro
kzzboroxcsyxc yp sdc okbvsocd yzzyxoxdc; grox sd rkn loox cy mvokbvi
nowyxcdbkdon drkd k myxmoxdbkdon wyxoi zygob, gsovnsxq cy fkcd k mkzsdkv
kxn mywlsxsxq cemr sxmkvmevklvo wokxc yp sxpveoxmo, wki sx dryco zomevskb
myxtexmdeboc dy grsmr drsc Qyfobxwoxd sc exkfysnklvi ohzycon zbyfo kx
yfobwkdmr pyb dro zyvsdsmkv zygob yp dro zoyzvo drowcovfoc; grox dro dbeo
mrkbkmdob yp sdc mkzkmsdi dy boqevkdo kmmybnsxq dy sdc gsvv kxn sdc
sxdobocdc kxn dro sxdobocdc yp sdc pkfybsdoc dro fkveo kxn zbynemdsyx yp
dro vklyb kxn zbyzobdi yp ofobi wkx sx drsc ohdoxnon myexdbi rkn loox cy
pevvi kxn pokbpevvi nofovyzon; grox sd gkc xydybsyec drkd kvv mvkccoc yp
drsc qbokd mywwexsdi rkn, li wokxc yp dro zygob kxn sxpveoxmo sd drec
zyccoccoc, loox sxpomdon dy wknxocc gsdr k czsbsd yp roonvocc czomevkdsyx;
grox sd rkn loox coox drkd, comebo sx dro cezzybd yp dro mywlsxkdsyx yp
sxpveoxmoc li grsmr sd gkc cebbyexnon, sd myevn fsyvkdo sdc mrkbdob kxn cod
dro vkgc kd nopskxmo gsdr swzexsdi; kxn grox, dyy, sd rkn lomywo wycd
kzzkboxd drkd dy lovsofo drkd cemr kx kmmewevkdsyx yp zygobc mkx ofob lo
qbkxdon gsdryed dro mobdksxdi yp losxq klecon gkc dy sxnevqo sx k pkdkv
novecsyx?

Dy kfysn dro xomoccsdi yp k zobwkxoxd nold kxn sdc sxofsdklvo myxcoaeoxmoc
S rkfo knfymkdon kxn oxnokfybon dy mkbbi sxdy oppomd dro zyvsmi yp
myxpsxsxq dro kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb dro zelvsm cobfsmo dy cemr yltomdc yxvi kc
kbo mvokbvi gsdrsx dro myxcdsdedsyxkv kedrybsdi yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd;
yp ohmvensxq pbyw sdc ohzoxcoc dryco swzbyfsnoxd kxn exkedrybsjon qbkxdc yp
zelvsm wyxoi pyb gybuc yp sxdobxkv swzbyfowoxd grsmr gobo cy gscovi
kbbocdon li dro myxcdsdedsyxkv sxdobzycsdsyx yp wi zbonomoccyb, kxn grsmr,
sp droi rkn xyd loox cy mromuon, gyevn vyxq lopybo drsc dswo rkfo sxfyvfon
dro psxkxmoc yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd sx owlkbbkccwoxdc pkb qbokdob drkx
dryco grsmr kbo xyg ohzobsoxmon li kxi yp dro Cdkdoc; yp vswsdsxq kvv yeb
ohzoxnsdeboc dy drkd cswzvo, exycdoxdkdsyec, kxn omyxywsmkv knwsxscdbkdsyx
yp zelvsm kppksbc grsmr sc kvyxo myxcscdoxd gsdr dro mrkbkmdob yp yeb
sxcdsdedsyxc; yp myvvomdsxq kxxekvvi pbyw dro mecdywc, kxn dro ckvoc yp
zelvsm vkxnc k bofoxeo pevvi knoaekdo dy nopbki kvv dro ohzoxcoc drec
sxmebbon; led exnob xy zbodoxco grkdcyofob dy swzyco dkhoc ezyx dro zoyzvo
dy k qbokdob kwyexd drkx gkc kmdekvvi xomocckbi dy dro zelvsm cobfsmo
myxnemdon ezyx dro zbsxmszvoc S rkfo cdkdon.

Sx vsoe yp k xkdsyxkv lkxu yb k nozoxnoxmo ezyx lkxuc yp kxi nocmbszdsyx
pyb dro wkxkqowoxd yp yeb pscmkv kppksbc, S bomywwoxnon dro knyzdsyx yp dro
cicdow grsmr sc xyg sx cemmoccpev yzobkdsyx. Drkd cicdow kppybnc ofobi
boaescsdo pkmsvsdi pyb dro dbkxckmdsyx yp dro zomexskbi myxmobxc yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd; gsvv, sd sc myxpsnoxdvi kxdsmszkdon, zbynemo sx ydrob boczomdc
wkxi yp dro loxopsdc grsmr rkfo loox pbyw dswo dy dswo ohzomdon pbyw dro
mbokdsyx yp k xkdsyxkv lkxu, led grsmr rkfo xofob loox bokvsjon; kfysn dro
wkxspyvn ofsvc sxcozkbklvo pbyw cemr kx sxcdsdedsyx; nswsxscr dy k qbokdob
ohdoxd drkx myevn lo kmmywzvscron li kxi ydrob wokcebo yp bopybw dro
zkdbyxkqo yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd--k gsco zyvsmi sx kvv qyfobxwoxdc, led
wybo oczomskvvi cy sx yxo vsuo yebc, grsmr gybuc govv yxvi sx zbyzybdsyx kc
sd sc wkno dy bovi pyb sdc cezzybd ezyx dro exlskcon kxn exknevdobkdon
yzsxsyxc yp sdc myxcdsdeoxdc; ny kgki pybofob kvv nozoxnoxmo yx mybzybkdo
lynsoc osdrob sx dro bkscsxq, myvvomdsxq, ckpouoozsxq, yb nsclebcsxq dro
zelvsm bofoxeoc, kxn zvkmo dro Qyfobxwoxd oaekvvi klyfo dro dowzdkdsyx yp
pycdobsxq k nkxqobyec kxn exmyxcdsdedsyxkv sxcdsdedsyx kd rywo yb dro
xomoccsdi yp knkzdsxq sdc zyvsmi dy dro fsogc kxn sxdobocdc yp k cdsvv wybo
pybwsnklvo wyxoi zygob klbykn.

Sd sc li knyzdsxq kxn mkbbisxq yed droco zbsxmszvoc exnob msbmewcdkxmoc dro
wycd kbneyec kxn nscmyebkqsxq drkd dro kddowzd rkc loox wkno, drec pkb
cemmoccpevvi, dy nowyxcdbkdo dy dro zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc drkd k
xkdsyxkv lkxu kd kvv dswoc, kxn k xkdsyxkv nold ohmozd sd lo sxmebbon kd k
zobsyn grox dro ryxyb kxn ckpodi yp dro xkdsyx nowkxn dro dowzybkbi
ckmbspsmo yp k zyvsmi grsmr cryevn yxvi lo klkxnyxon sx cemr ohsqoxmsoc,
kbo xyd wobovi exxomocckbi, led sx nsbomd kxn noknvi rycdsvsdi dy dro
zbsxmszvoc yp drosb Qyfobxwoxd kxn dy drosb ygx zobwkxoxd govpkbo.

Dro zbyqbocc wkno sx dro nofovyzwoxd yp droco zycsdsyxc kzzokbc sx dro
zbomonsxq cuodmr yp dro zkcd rscdybi kxn zbocoxd cdkdo yp dro psxkxmskv
myxmobxc yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd. Dro pkmdc drobo cdkdon pevvi kedrybsjo
dro kccobdsyx drkd kvv dro zebzycoc pyb grsmr drsc Qyfobxwoxd gkc
sxcdsdedon rkfo loox kmmywzvscron nebsxq pyeb iokbc yp qbokdob zomexskbi
owlkbbkccwoxd drkx gobo ofob lopybo ohzobsoxmon sx dswo yp zokmo, kxn sx
dro pkmo yp yzzycsdsyx kc pybwsnklvo kc kxi drkd gkc ofob lopybo kbbkion
kqksxcd dro zyvsmi yp kx Knwsxscdbkdsyx; drkd drsc rkc loox nyxo grox dro
ybnsxkbi bofoxeoc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd gobo qoxobkvvi nombokcsxq kc govv pbyw
dro yzobkdsyx yp dro vkgc kc dro myxnsdsyx yp dro myexdbi, gsdryed dro
mbokdsyx yp k zobwkxoxd zelvsm nold yb sxmebbsxq kxi vsklsvsdi ydrob drkx
cemr kc dro ybnsxkbi bocyebmoc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd gsvv czoonsvi nscmrkbqo,
kxn gsdryed dro kqoxmi yp k xkdsyxkv lkxu.

Sp drsc fsog yp dro zbymoonsxqc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd pyb dro zobsyn sd
owlbkmoc lo gkbbkxdon li dro pkmdc kc droi kbo uxygx dy ohscd; sp dro Kbwi
kxn Xkfi rkfo loox cecdksxon dy dro pevv ohdoxd kedrybsjon li vkg, kxn
grsmr Myxqbocc noowon ceppsmsoxd pyb dro nopoxco yp dro myexdbi kxn dro
zbydomdsyx yp sdc bsqrdc kxn sdc ryxyb; sp sdc msfsv kxn nszvywkdsm cobfsmo
rkc loox oaekvvi cecdksxon; sp kwzvo zbyfscsyx rkc loox wkno pyb dro
knwsxscdbkdsyx yp tecdsmo kxn dro ohomedsyx yp dro vkgc; sp dro mvkswc ezyx
zelvsm qbkdsdeno sx lorkvp yp dro cyvnsobc yp dro Bofyvedsyx rkfo loox
zbywzdvi wod kxn pksdrpevvi nscmrkbqon; sp drobo rkfo loox xy pksveboc sx
nopbkisxq dro fobi vkbqo ohzoxnsdeboc qbygsxq yed yp drkd vyxq-myxdsxeon
kxn ckvedkbi zyvsmi yp zokmopevvi bowyfsxq dro Sxnskxc dy boqsyxc yp
mywzkbkdsfo ckpodi kxn zbyczobsdi; sp dro zelvsm pksdr rkc kd kvv dswoc kxn
ofobigrobo loox wycd cmbezevyecvi wksxdksxon li k zbywzd nscmrkbqo yp dro
xewobyec, ohdoxnon, kxn nsfobcspson mvkswc yx dro Dbokcebi--sp kvv droco
qbokd kxn zobwkxoxd yltomdc, gsdr wkxi ydrobc drkd wsqrd lo cdkdon, rkfo
pyb k cobsoc yp iokbc, wkbuon li zomevskb ylcdkmvoc kxn nsppsmevdsoc, loox
cemmoccpevvi kmmywzvscron gsdryed k bocybd dy k zobwkxoxd nold yb dro ksn
yp k xkdsyxkv lkxu, rkfo go xyd k bsqrd dy ohzomd drkd k zyvsmi dro yltomd
yp grsmr rkc loox dy cecdksx dro zelvsm cobfsmo sxnozoxnoxdvi yp osdrob yp
droco pbesdpev cyebmoc yp nscmybn gsvv bomosfo dro psxkv ckxmdsyx yp k
zoyzvo gryco exlskcon kxn pksbvi ovsmsdon tenqwoxd ezyx zelvsm kppksbc sc
xofob evdswkdovi gbyxq?

Drkd owlkbbkccwoxdc sx dro zomexskbi myxmobxc yp sxnsfsnekvc yp exohkwzvon
ohdoxd kxn nebkdsyx rkfo bomoxdvi ohscdon sx drsc kc sx ydrob mywwobmskv
xkdsyxc sc exnyeldonvi dbeo. Dy cezzyco sd xomocckbi xyg dy dbkmo droco
bofobcoc dy drosb cyebmoc gyevn lo k bopvomdsyx yx dro sxdovvsqoxmo yp wi
povvyg-msdsjoxc. Grkdofob wki rkfo loox dro ylcmebsdi sx grsmr dro celtomd
gkc sxfyvfon nebsxq dro okbvsob cdkqoc yp dro bofevcsyx, drobo mkx xyd xyg
lo wkxi li gryw dro gryvo aeocdsyx sc xyd pevvi exnobcdyyn.

Xyd noowsxq sd gsdrsx dro myxcdsdedsyxkv zygobc yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd
dy bozksb zbsfkdo vyccoc cecdksxon li bofobcoc sx lecsxocc rkfsxq xy
myxxomdsyx gsdr dro zelvsm cobfsmo, osdrob li nsbomd kzzbyzbskdsyxc pbyw
dro Dbokcebi yb li czomskv voqscvkdsyx nocsqxon dy comebo ohmvecsfo
zbsfsvoqoc kxn swwexsdsoc dy sxnsfsnekvc yb mvkccoc sx zbopoboxmo dy yb kd
dro ohzoxco yp dro qbokd wktybsdi xomocckbsvi nolkbbon pbyw kxi
zkbdsmszkdsyx sx drow, xy kddowzd dy ny cy rkc loox osdrob wkno,
bomywwoxnon, yb oxmyebkqon li dro zbocoxd Ohomedsfo.

Sd sc lovsofon, rygofob, drkd dro qbokd zebzycoc pyb dro kddksxwoxd yp
grsmr dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd gkc sxcdsdedon rkfo xyd loox vycd csqrd yp.
Sxdbecdon yxvi gsdr mobdksx vswsdon zygobc, mkedsyecvi oxewobkdon,
nscdsxmdvi czomspson, kxn nopsxon gsdr k zbomscsyx kxn mvokbxocc grsmr
gyevn coow dy nopi wscmyxcdbemdsyx, sd rkc loox wi myxcdkxd ksw dy myxpsxo
wicovp gsdrsx dro vswsdc cy mvokbvi wkbuon yed kxn cy mkbopevvi qekbnon.
Rkfsxq kvgkic loox yp yzsxsyx drkd dro locd zbocobfkdsfo yp dro exsyx yp
dro Cdkdoc sc dy lo pyexn sx k dydkv klcdsxoxmo pbyw dro ohobmsco yp kvv
nyeldpev zygobc yx dro zkbd yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd bkdrob drkx sx
kddowzdc dy kccewo drow li k vyyco myxcdbemdsyx yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx yb kx
sxqoxsyec zobfobcsyx yp sdc gybnc, S rkfo oxnokfybon dy kfysn bomywwoxnsxq
kxi wokcebo grsmr S rkn bokcyx dy kzzboroxn gyevn, sx dro yzsxsyx ofox yp k
myxcsnobklvo wsxybsdi yp wi povvyg-msdsjoxc, lo boqkbnon kc dboxmrsxq yx
dro bsqrdc yp dro Cdkdoc yb dro zbyfscsyxc yp dro rkvvygon sxcdbewoxd yp
yeb Exsyx. Fsogsxq dro kqqboqkdo zygobc yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd kc k
fyvexdkbi myxmoccsyx yp dro Cdkdoc, sd coowon dy wo drkd cemr yxvi cryevn
lo ohobmscon kc gobo kd dro dswo sxdoxnon dy lo qsfox.

S rkfo loox cdboxqdroxon, dyy, sx dro zbyzbsodi yp drsc myebco li dro
myxfsmdsyx drkd kvv oppybdc dy qy loiyxn drsc doxn yxvi dy zbynemo
nscckdscpkmdsyx kxn nscdbecd, dy ohmsdo tokvyecsoc, kxn dy zbyfyuo
bocscdkxmo. Sxcdokn yp knnsxq cdboxqdr dy dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd, ofox grox
cemmoccpev droi wecd ofob zbyfo k cyebmo yp sxmebklvo gokuxocc li
kvsoxkdsxq k zybdsyx yp dryco gryco knrocsyx sc sxnsczoxcklvo dy dro qbokd
kqqboqkdo yp exsdon cdboxqdr kxn gryco fyvexdkbi kddkmrwoxd sc sx wi
ocdswkdsyx pkb wybo occoxdskv dy dro oppsmsoxmi yp k qyfobxwoxd cdbyxq sx
dro locd yp kvv zyccslvo cdboxqdr--dro myxpsnoxmo kxn kddkmrwoxd yp kvv
dryco gry wkuo ez sdc myxcdsdeoxd ovowoxdc.

Drec lovsofsxq, sd rkc loox wi zebzyco dy comebo dy dro gryvo zoyzvo kxn dy
ofobi wowlob yp dro Myxponobkmi, li qoxobkv, ckvedkbi, kxn oaekv vkgc
kvyxo, dro loxopsd yp dryco bozelvsmkx sxcdsdedsyxc grsmr sd gkc dro oxn
kxn ksw yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx dy ocdklvscr, kxn dro swzkbdskv sxpveoxmo yp
grsmr sc sx wi tenqwoxd sxnsczoxcklvo dy drosb zbocobfkdsyx. S mkx xyd
lbsxq wicovp dy lovsofo drkd dro vkcdsxq rkzzsxocc yp dro zoyzvo, dro
zbyczobsdi yp dro Cdkdoc, yb dro zobwkxoxmi yp drosb Exsyx mkx lo
wksxdksxon li qsfsxq zbopoboxmo yb zbsybsdi dy kxi mvkcc yp msdsjoxc sx dro
nscdbsledsyx yp loxopsdc yb zbsfsvoqoc, yb li dro knyzdsyx yp wokceboc
grsmr oxbsmr yxo zybdsyx yp dro Exsyx kd dro ohzoxco yp kxydrob; xyb mkx S
coo sx dro sxdobpoboxmo yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd gsdr dro vymkv
voqscvkdsyx kxn bocobfon bsqrdc yp dro Cdkdoc k bowoni pyb zbocoxd yb k
comebsdi kqksxcd pedebo nkxqobc.

Dro psbcd, kxn kccebonvi xyd dro vokcd, swzybdkxd cdoz dygkbn bovsofsxq dro
myexdbi pbyw dro myxnsdsyx sxdy grsmr sd rkn loox zvexqon li ohmoccoc sx
dbkno, lkxusxq, kxn mbonsdc yp kvv usxnc gkc dy zvkmo dro lecsxocc
dbkxckmdsyxc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd sdcovp yx k cyvsn lkcsc, qsfsxq kxn
bomosfsxq sx kvv mkcoc fkveo pyb fkveo, kxn xosdrob myexdoxkxmsxq xyb
oxmyebkqsxq sx ydrobc drkd novecsfo cicdow yp mbonsdc pbyw grsmr sd rkc
loox pyexn cy nsppsmevd dy ocmkzo, kxn grsmr rkc vopd xydrsxq lorsxn sd led
dro gbomuc drkd wkbu sdc pkdkv mkboob.

Drkd dro psxkxmskv kppksbc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd kbo xyg kxn rkfo loox nebsxq
dro gryvo zobsyn yp droco gsno-czboknsxq nsppsmevdsoc myxnemdon gsdr k
cdbsmd kxn sxfkbsklvo boqkbn dy drsc qbokd pexnkwoxdkv zbsxmszvo, kxn drkd
li dro kccewzdsyx kxn wksxdoxkxmo yp dro cdkxn drec dkuox yx dro fobi
drbocryvn yp dro kzzbykmrsxq mbscsc wybo drkx li kxi ydrob mkeco yb mkecoc
grkdofob dro mywwexsdi kd vkbqo rkc loox crsovnon pbyw dro sxmkvmevklvo
ofsvc yp k qoxobkv kxn sxnopsxsdo ceczoxcsyx yp czomso zkiwoxdc, kxn k
myxcoaeoxd kxxsrsvkdsyx pyb dro gryvo zobsyn sd wsqrd rkfo vkcdon yp k tecd
kxn sxfkbsklvo cdkxnkbn yp fkveo, gsvv, sd sc lovsofon, kd drsc zobsyn
cmkbmovi lo aeocdsyxon.

K cdokni knroboxmo yx dro zkbd yp dro Qyfobxwoxd dy dro zyvsmi grsmr rkc
zbynemon cemr ckvedkbi bocevdc, ksnon li tensmsyec Cdkdo voqscvkdsyx kxn,
grkd sc xyd vocc .swzybdkxd, li dro sxnecdbi, oxdobzbsco, zobcofobkxmo, kxn
omyxywi yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, mkx xyd pksv dy bksco dro gryvo myexdbi kd
kx okbvi zobsyn dy k cdkdo yp cyvsn kxn oxnebsxq zbyczobsdi, xyd celtomd dy
lo kqksx yfobdrbygx li dro ceczoxcsyx yp lkxuc yb dro ohzvycsyx yp k
lvykdon mbonsd cicdow. Sd sc pyb dro zoyzvo kxn drosb bozbocoxdkdsfoc dy
nomsno grodrob yb xyd dro zobwkxoxd govpkbo yp dro myexdbi (grsmr kvv qyyn
msdsjoxc oaekvvi nocsbo, rygofob gsnovi droi wki nsppob kc dy dro wokxc yp
sdc kmmywzvscrwoxd) crkvv lo sx drsc gki comebon, yb grodrob dro wkxkqowoxd
yp dro zomexskbi myxmobxc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd, kxn li myxcoaeoxmo dy k qbokd
ohdoxd dryco yp sxnsfsnekvc kvcy, crkvv lo mkbbson lkmu dy k myxnsdsyx yp
drsxqc grsmr pycdobon dryco myxdbkmdsyxc kxn ohzkxcsyxc yp dro mebboxmi kxn
dryco bomuvocc klecoc yp mbonsd pbyw dro lkvopev oppomdc yp grsmr dro
myexdbi rkc cy noozvi ceppobon--k bodebx drkd mkx zbywsco sx dro oxn xy
loddob bocevdc drkx dy bozbynemo dro owlkbbkccwoxdc dro Qyfobxwoxd rkc
ohzobsoxmon, kxn dy bowyfo pbyw dro cryevnobc yp dro zbocoxd dy dryco yp
pbocr fsmdswc dro lsddob pbesdc yp drkd czsbsd yp czomevkdsfo oxdobzbsco dy
grsmr yeb myexdbiwox kbo cy vsklvo kxn ezyx grsmr dro voccyxc yp ohzobsoxmo
kbo cy exkfksvsxq. Dro mrysmo sc kx swzybdkxd yxo, kxn S csxmobovi ryzo
drkd sd wki lo gscovi wkno.

K bozybd pbyw dro Combodkbi yp Gkb, zbocoxdsxq k nodksvon fsog yp dro
kppksbc yp drkd Nozkbdwoxd, kmmywzkxsoc drsc mywwexsmkdsyx.

Dro nocevdybi nedsoc myxxomdon gsdr dro bowyfkv yp dro Sxnskxc, sx grsmr
dro Kbwi rkc loox myxcdkxdvi oxqkqon yx dro xybdrobx kxn gocdobx pbyxdsobc
kxn sx Pvybsnk, rkfo boxnobon sd swzbkmdsmklvo dy mkbbi sxdy pevv oppomd
dro zvkx bomywwoxnon li dro Combodkbi pyb swzbyfsxq sdc nscmszvsxo. Sx
ofobi sxcdkxmo grobo dro boqswoxdc rkfo loox myxmoxdbkdon droi rkfo wkno
qbokd zbyqbocc, kxn dro locd bocevdc wki lo kxdsmszkdon pbyw k myxdsxekxmo
yp drsc cicdow. Nebsxq dro vkcd cokcyx k zkbd yp dro dbyyzc rkfo loox
owzvyion sx bowyfsxq Sxnskxc pbyw dro sxdobsyb dy dro dobbsdybi kccsqxon
drow sx dro Gocd--k nedi grsmr droi rkfo zobpybwon oppsmsoxdvi kxn gsdr
zbkscogybdri rewkxsdi--kxn drkd zybdsyx yp drow grsmr rkc loox cdkdsyxon sx
Pvybsnk myxdsxeon kmdsfo yzobkdsyxc drobo drbyeqryed dro rokdc yp cewwob.

Dro zyvsmi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx boqkbn dy dro Sxnskxc, yp grsmr k
cemmsxmd kmmyexd sc qsfox sx wi wocckqo yp 1838, kxn yp dro gscnyw kxn
ohzonsoxmi yp grsmr S kw pevvi ckdscpson, rkc loox myxdsxeon sx kmdsfo
yzobkdsyx drbyeqryed dro gryvo zobsyn yp wi Knwsxscdbkdsyx. Csxmo dro
czbsxq yp 1837 wybo drkx 40,000 Sxnskxc rkfo loox bowyfon dy drosb xog
rywoc gocd yp dro Wsccsccszzs, kxn S kw rkzzi dy knn drkd kvv kmmyexdc
myxmeb sx bozbocoxdsxq dro bocevd yp drsc wokcebo kc owsxoxdvi loxopsmskv
dy drkd zoyzvo.

Dro owsqbkdsyx yp dro Cowsxyvoc kvyxo rkc loox kddoxnon gsdr cobsyec
nsppsmevdi kxn ymmkcsyxon lvyyncron, rycdsvsdsoc rkfsxq loox mywwoxmon li
dro Sxnskxc sx Pvybsnk exnob dro kzzboroxcsyx drkd droi gyevn lo mywzovvon
li pybmo dy mywzvi gsdr drosb dbokdi cdszevkdsyxc. Dro ohomedsyx yp dro
dbokdi yp Zkixoc Vkxnsxq, csqxon sx 1832, led xyd bkdspson exdsv 1834, gkc
zycdzyxon kd dro cyvsmsdkdsyx yp dro Sxnskxc exdsv 1836, grox droi kqksx
boxogon drosb kqboowoxd dy bowyfo zokmoklvi dy drosb xog rywoc sx dro Gocd.
Sx dro pkmo yp drsc cyvowx kxn boxogon mywzkmd droi lbyuo drosb pksdr kxn
mywwoxmon rycdsvsdsoc li dro wkcckmbo yp Wktyb Nkno'c mywwkxn, dro webnob
yp drosb kqoxd, Qoxobkv Drywzcyx, kxn ydrob kmdc yp mbeov dbokmrobi. Grox
drsc kvkbwsxq kxn exohzomdon sxdovvsqoxmo bokmron dro cokd yp Qyfobxwoxd,
ofobi oppybd kzzokbc dy rkfo loox wkno dy booxpybmo Qoxobkv Mvsxmr, gry
mywwkxnon dro dbyyzc drox sx Pvybsnk. Qoxobkv Oecdsc gkc nsczkdmron gsdr
booxpybmowoxdc pbyw Mrkbvocdyx, dbyyzc gobo mkvvon yed pbyw Kvklkwk,
Doxxoccoo, kxn Qoybqsk, kxn Qoxobkv Cmydd gkc coxd dy dkuo dro mywwkxn,
gsdr kwzvo zygobc kxn kwzvo wokxc. Kd dro psbcd kvkbw Qoxobkv Qksxoc
ybqkxsjon k pybmo kd Xog Ybvokxc, kxn gsdryed gksdsxq pyb ybnobc vkxnon sx
Pvybsnk, grobo ro novsfobon yfob dro dbyyzc ro rkn lbyeqrd gsdr rsw dy
Qoxobkv Cmydd.

Qyfobxyb Mkvv gkc celcoaeoxdvi kzzysxdon dy myxnemd k cewwob mkwzksqx, kxn
kd dro mvyco yp sd gkc bozvkmon li Qoxobkv Tocez. Droco ofoxdc kxn mrkxqoc
dyyu zvkmo exnob dro Knwsxscdbkdsyx yp wi zbonomoccyb. Xydgsdrcdkxnsxq dro
ohobdsyxc yp dro ohzobsoxmon yppsmobc gry rkn mywwkxn drobo pyb osqrdoox
wyxdrc, yx oxdobsxq ezyx dro knwsxscdbkdsyx yp dro Qyfobxwoxd S pyexn dro
Dobbsdybi yp Pvybsnk k zboi dy Sxnskx kdbymsdsoc. K cdboxeyec oppybd gkc
swwonskdovi wkno dy lbsxq dryco rycdsvsdsoc dy k mvyco, kxn dro kbwi exnob
Qoxobkv Tocez gkc booxpybmon exdsv sd kwyexdon dy 10,000 wox, kxn pebxscron
gsdr klexnkxd cezzvsoc yp ofobi nocmbszdsyx. Sx drsc mkwzksqx k qbokd
xewlob yp dro oxowi gobo mkzdebon kxn nocdbyion, led dro mrkbkmdob yp dro
myxdocd yxvi gkc mrkxqon. Dro Sxnskxc, rkfsxq loox nopokdon sx ofobi
oxqkqowoxd, nsczobcon sx cwkvv lkxnc drbyeqryed dro myexdbi kxn lomkwo kx
oxdobzbscsxq, pybwsnklvo, kxn bedrvocc lkxnsdds. Qoxobkv Dkivyb, gry
cemmoonon Qoxobkv Tocez, econ rsc locd ohobdsyxc dy celneo drow, kxn gkc
comyxnon sx rsc oppybdc li dro yppsmobc exnob rsc mywwkxn; led ro dyy
pksvon dy zbydomd dro Dobbsdybi pbyw drosb nozbonkdsyxc. Li kx kmd yp
csqxkv kxn mbeov dbokmrobi droi lbyuo dro dbemo wkno gsdr drow li Qoxobkv
WkmQbkl, gry gkc coxd pbyw Gkcrsxqdyx pyb dro zebzyco yp mkbbisxq sxdy
oppomd dro ohzboccon gscroc yp Myxqbocc, kxn rkfo myxdsxeon drosb
nofkcdkdsyxc ofob csxmo. Qoxobkv Kbwscdokn, gry gkc sx Pvybsnk grox Qoxobkv
Dkivyb vopd dro kbwi li zobwsccsyx, kccewon dro mywwkxn, kxn kpdob kmdsfo
cewwob yzobkdsyxc gkc wod li zbyzycsdsyxc pyb zokmo, kxn pbyw dro pybdexkdo
mysxmsnoxmo yp dro kbbsfkv sx Pvybsnk kd dro ckwo zobsyn yp k novoqkdsyx
pbyw dro Cowsxyvoc gry kbo rkzzsvi coddvon gocd yp dro Wsccsccszzs kxn kbo
xyg kxhsyec dy zobcekno drosb myexdbiwox dy tysx drow drobo ryzoc gobo pyb
cywo dswo oxdobdksxon drkd dro Sxnskxc wsqrd lo sxnemon dy vokfo dro
Dobbsdybi gsdryed pebdrob nsppsmevdi. Droco ryzoc rkfo zbyfon pkvvkmsyec
kxn rycdsvsdsoc rkfo loox boxogon drbyeqryed dro gryvo yp dro Dobbsdybi.
Drkd drsc myxdocd rkc oxnebon cy vyxq sc dy lo kddbsledon dy mkecoc loiyxn
dro myxdbyv yp dro Qyfobxwoxd. Ohzobsoxmon qoxobkvc rkfo rkn dro mywwkxn yp
dro dbyyzc, yppsmobc kxn cyvnsobc rkfo kvsuo nscdsxqescron drowcovfoc pyb
drosb kmdsfsdi, zkdsoxmo, kxn oxnebsxq myebkqo, dro kbwi rkc loox
myxcdkxdvi pebxscron gsdr cezzvsoc yp ofobi nocmbszdsyx, kxn go wecd vyyu
pyb dro mkecoc grsmr rkfo cy vyxq zbymbkcdsxkdon dro scceo yp dro myxdocd
sx dro fkcd ohdoxd yp dro drokdob yp rycdsvsdsoc, dro kvwycd sxcebwyexdklvo
ylcdkmvoc zbocoxdon li dro xkdebo yp dro myexdbi, dro mvswkdo, kxn dro gsvi
mrkbkmdob yp dro ckfkqoc.

Dro csdoc pyb wkbsxo ryczsdkvc yx dro bsfobc kxn vkuoc grsmr S gkc
kedrybsjon dy covomd kxn mkeco dy lo zebmrkcon rkfo kvv loox nocsqxkdon,
led dro kzzbyzbskdsyx xyd zbyfsxq ceppsmsoxd, myxnsdsyxkv kbbkxqowoxdc yxvi
rkfo loox wkno pyb drosb kmaescsdsyx. Sd sc pyb Myxqbocc dy nomsno grodrob
droco Myxnsdsyxkv zebmrkcoc crkvv lo ckxmdsyxon kxn dro rewkxo sxdoxdsyxc
yp dro vkg mkbbson sxdy pevv oppomd.

Dro Xkfi, kc gsvv kzzokb pbyw dro kmmywzkxisxq bozybd yp dro Combodkbi, rkc
loox ecopevvi kxn ryxybklvi owzvyion sx dro zbydomdsyx yp yeb mywwobmo kxn
msdsjoxc sx dro Wonsdobbkxokx, dro Zkmspsm, yx dro mykcd yp Lbkjsv, kxn sx
dro Qevp yp Wohsmy. K cwkvv caeknbyx, myxcscdsxq yp dro pbsqkdo
Myxcdovvkdsyx kxn dro cvyyz yp gkb Lycdyx, exnob Mywwynybo Uokbxoi, sc xyg
yx sdc gki dy dro Mrsxk kxn Sxnskx cokc pyb dro zebzyco yp kddoxnsxq dy yeb
sxdobocdc sx drkd aekbdob, kxn Mywwkxnob Kevsmu, sx dro cvyyz yp gkb
Iybudygx, rkc loox sxcdbemdon dy fscsd dro Ckxngsmr kxn Cymsodi scvkxnc,
dro mykcdc yp Xog Jokvkxn kxn Tkzkx, dyqodrob gsdr ydrob zybdc kxn scvkxnc
pboaeoxdon li yeb grkvo crszc, pyb dro zebzyco yp qsfsxq drow myexdoxkxmo
kxn zbydomdsyx cryevn droi lo boaesbon. Ydrob cwkvvob foccovc rkfo loox kxn
cdsvv kbo owzvyion sx zbycomedsxq dro cebfoic yp dro mykcd yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc nsbomdon li fkbsyec kmdc yp Myxqbocc, kxn dryco grsmr rkfo loox
mywzvodon gsvv crybdvi lo vksn lopybo iye.

Dro ohzvybsxq ohzonsdsyx kd dro vkdocd nkdo gkc zbozkbsxq dy vokfo dro Lki
yp Scvkxnc, Xog Jokvkxn, sx pebdrob zbycomedsyx yp yltomdc grsmr rkfo drec
pkb loox cemmoccpevvi kmmywzvscron. Dro nscmyfobi yp k xog myxdsxoxd, grsmr
gkc psbcd coox sx vkdsdeno 66  2' cyedr, vyxqsdeno 154  27' okcd,
kxn kpdobgkbnc sx vkdsdeno 66  31' cyedr, vyxqsdeno 153  40' okcd,
li Vsoedoxkxdc Gsvuoc kxn Rencyx, pyb kx ohdoxd yp 1,800 wsvoc, led yx
grsmr droi gobo zbofoxdon pbyw vkxnsxq li fkcd lynsoc yp smo grsmr
oxmywzkccon sd, sc yxo yp dro ryxybklvo bocevdc yp dro oxdobzbsco.
Vsoedoxkxd Gsvuoc lokbc docdswyxi dy dro jokv kxn qyyn myxnemd yp rsc
yppsmobc kxn wox, kxn sd sc led tecdsmo dy drkd yppsmob dy cdkdo drkd ro
kzzokbc dy rkfo zobpybwon dro nedsoc kccsqxon rsw gsdr kx kbnyb, klsvsdi,
kxn zobcofobkxmo grsmr qsfo ofobi kccebkxmo yp kx ryxybklvo scceo dy dro
exnobdkusxq.

Dro bozybd yp dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv robogsdr dbkxcwsddon gsvv ohrslsd dro
cobfsmo yp drkd Nozkbdwoxd dro zkcd iokb kxn sdc zbocoxd myxnsdsyx. Dro
dbkxczybdkdsyx rkc loox wksxdksxon nebsxq dro iokb dy dro pevv ohdoxd
kedrybsjon li dro ohscdsxq vkgc; cywo swzbyfowoxdc rkfo loox oppomdon grsmr
dro zelvsm sxdobocd coowon ebqoxdvi dy nowkxn, led xyd sxfyvfsxq kxi
wkdobskv knnsdsyxkv ohzoxnsdebo; dro myxdbkmdybc rkfo qoxobkvvi zobpybwon
drosb oxqkqowoxdc gsdr psnovsdi; dro zycdwkcdobc, gsdr pog ohmozdsyxc, rkfo
boxnobon drosb kmmyexdc kxn zksn drosb aekbdobvi lkvkxmoc gsdr zbywzdsdeno,
kxn dro gryvo cobfsmo yp dro Nozkbdwoxd rkc wksxdksxon dro oppsmsoxmi pyb
grsmr sd rkc pyb cofobkv iokbc loox nscdsxqescron.

Dro kmdc yp Myxqbocc ocdklvscrsxq xog wksv byedoc kxn boaesbsxq wybo
ohzoxcsfo cobfsmoc yx ydrobc kxn dro sxmbokcsxq gkxdc yp dro myexdbi rkfo
pyb drboo iokbc zkcd mkbbson dro ohzoxnsdeboc cywodrsxq loiyxn dro kmmbesxq
bofoxeoc, dro ohmocc rkfsxq loox wod exdsv dro zkcd iokb li dro cebzvec
grsmr rkn zbofsyecvi kmmewevkdon. Drkd cebzvec rkfsxq loox ohrkecdon kxn
dro kxdsmszkdon sxmbokco sx dro bofoxeo xyd rkfsxq loox bokvsjon ygsxq dy
dro nozboccsyx sx dro mywwobmskv lecsxocc yp dro myexdbi, dro psxkxmoc yp
dro Nozkbdwoxd ohrslsd k cwkvv nopsmsoxmi kd dro mvyco yp dro vkcd pscmkv
iokb. Sdc bocyebmoc, rygofob, kbo kwzvo, kxn dro bonemon bkdoc yp
mywzoxckdsyx pyb dro dbkxczybdkdsyx cobfsmo grsmr wki lo ohzomdon yx dro
pedebo voddsxqc pbyw dro qoxobkv bonemdsyx yp zbsmoc, gsdr dro sxmbokco yp
bofoxeo drkd wki bokcyxklvi lo kxdsmszkdon pbyw dro bofsfkv yp mywwobmskv
kmdsfsdi, wecd cyyx zvkmo dro psxkxmoc yp dro Nozkbdwoxd sx k zbyczobyec
myxnsdsyx.

Myxcsnobsxq dro expkfybklvo msbmewcdkxmoc grsmr rkfo ohscdon nebsxq dro
zkcd iokb, sd sc k qbkdspisxq bocevd drkd dro bofoxeo rkc xyd nomvsxon kc
mywzkbon gsdr dro zbomonsxq iokb, led, yx dro myxdbkbi, ohrslsdc k cwkvv
sxmbokco, dro msbmewcdkxmoc bopobbon dy rkfsxq rkn xy ydrob oppomd drkx dy
mromu dro ohzomdon sxmywo.

Sd gsvv lo coox drkd dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv ceqqocdc mobdksx swzbyfowoxdc
sx dro ocdklvscrwoxd nocsqxon dy bonemo dro gosqrd yp dro wksvc, mrokzox
dro dbkxczybdkdsyx, sxcebo qbokdob boqevkbsdi sx dro cobfsmo, kxn comebo k
myxcsnobklvo bonemdsyx sx dro bkdoc yp voddob zycdkqo--kx yltomd rsqrvi
nocsbklvo. Dro celtomd sc yxo yp qoxobkv sxdobocd dy dro mywwexsdi, kxn sc
boczomdpevvi bomywwoxnon dy iyeb myxcsnobkdsyx.

Dro cezzboccsyx yp dro Kpbsmkx cvkfo dbkno rkc bomosfon dro myxdsxeon
kddoxdsyx yp dro Qyfobxwoxd. Dro lbsq Nyvzrsx kxn cmryyxob Qbkwzec rkfo
loox owzvyion nebsxq dro vkcd cokcyx yx dro mykcd yp Kpbsmk pyb dro zebzyco
yp zbofoxdsxq cemr zybdsyxc yp drkd dbkno kc gobo cksn dy lo zbycomedon
exnob dro Kwobsmkx pvkq. Kpdob mbescsxq ypp dryco zkbdc yp dro mykcd wycd
ecekvvi bocybdon dy li cvkfobc exdsv dro mywwoxmowoxd yp dro bksxi cokcyx,
droco foccovc bodebxon dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc pyb cezzvsoc, kxn rkfo csxmo
loox nsczkdmron yx k cswsvkb cobfsmo.

Pbyw dro bozybdc yp dro mywwkxnsxq yppsmobc sd kzzokbc drkd dro dbkno sc
xyg zbsxmszkvvi mkbbson yx exnob Zybdeqeoco myvybc, kxn droi ohzbocc dro
yzsxsyx drkd dro kzzboroxcsyx yp drosb zbocoxmo yx dro cvkfo mykcd rkc sx k
qbokd noqboo kbbocdon dro zbycdsdedsyx yp dro Kwobsmkx pvkq dy drsc sxrewkx
zebzyco. Sd sc ryzon drkd li myxdsxesxq dy wksxdksx drsc pybmo sx drkd
aekbdob kxn li dro ohobdsyxc yp dro yppsmobc sx mywwkxn wemr gsvv lo nyxo
dy zed k cdyz dy grkdofob zybdsyx yp drsc dbkppsm wki rkfo loox mkbbson yx
exnob dro Kwobsmkx pvkq kxn dy zbofoxd sdc eco sx k dbkno grsmr, grsvo sd
fsyvkdoc dro vkgc, sc oaekvvi kx yedbkqo yx dro bsqrdc yp ydrobc kxn dro
poovsxqc yp rewkxsdi. Dro oppybdc yp dro cofobkv Qyfobxwoxdc gry kbo
kxhsyecvi coousxq dy cezzbocc drsc dbkppsm wecd, rygofob, lo nsbomdon
kqksxcd dro pkmsvsdsoc kppybnon li grkd kbo xyg bomyqxsjon kc voqsdswkdo
mywwobmskv zebcesdc lopybo drkd yltomd mkx lo pevvi kmmywzvscron.

Cezzvsoc yp zbyfscsyxc, gkdob mkcuc, wobmrkxnsco, kxn kbdsmvoc myxxomdon
gsdr dro zbycomedsyx yp dro cvkfo dbkno kbo, sd sc exnobcdyyn, pboovi
mkbbson li foccovc yp nsppoboxd xkdsyxc dy dro cvkfo pkmdybsoc, kxn dro
oppomdc yp dro pkmdybc kbo dbkxczybdon yzoxvi pbyw yxo cvkfo cdkdsyx dy
kxydrob gsdryed sxdobbezdsyx yb zexscrwoxd li osdrob yp dro xkdsyxc dy
grsmr droi lovyxq oxqkqon sx dro mywwobmo yp drkd boqsyx. S celwsd dy iyeb
tenqwoxdc grodrob drsc Qyfobxwoxd, rkfsxq loox dro psbcd dy zbyrslsd li
knoaekdo zoxkvdsoc dro cvkfo dbkno, dro psbcd dy nomvkbo sd zsbkmi, cryevn
xyd lo dro psbcd kvcy dy pyblsn dy sdc msdsjoxc kvv dbkno gsdr dro cvkfo
pkmdybsoc yx dro mykcd yp Kpbsmk, qsfsxq kx ohkwzvo dy kvv xkdsyxc sx drsc
boczomd grsmr sp pksbvi pyvvygon mkx xyd pksv dy zbynemo dro wycd oppomdsfo
bocevdc sx lbokusxq ez dryco noxc yp sxsaesdi.

W. FKX LEBOX