Gl. Mjyueyl, Gl. Jlymcxyhn, uhx xcmnchaocmbyx Gygvylm iz nby Biomy uhx Myhuny,
bihilyx aoymnm, uhx zyffiq wcnctyhm: Fymm nbuh 3 qyyem uai, C dichyx sio ih nby
Qymn Zlihn iz nbcm pyls vocfxcha uhx, fiiecha ipyl nby gihogyhnm ni iol jliox
jumn, izzylyx sio gs buhx ch zcffcha nby hyrn juay iz Ugylcwuh bcmnils qcnb u
mnils iz yrnyhxyx jlimjylcns uhx wihnchoyx jyuwy. Uhx nihcabn C'g vuwe ni izzyl
sio gs jfuhm um qyff. Nby buhx lyguchm yrnyhxyx; nby mfyypym uly liffyx oj;
Ugylcwu cm qucncha; uhx hiq qy gomn jlixowy. Niaynbyl, qy wuh vocfx u vynnyl
Ugylcwu.

Cn cm wigzilncha ni lynolh ni nbcm bcmnilcw Wbugvyl. Byly, 22 syulm uai, C zclmn
lucmyx gs buhx ni vy mqilh chni jovfcw fczy. Mi, nihcabn C zyyf um cz C'g
lynolhcha bigy ni zlcyhxm. Uhx C chnyhx, ch nby gihnbm uhx syulm ni wigy, ni
acpy sio qbun zlcyhxm xymylpy: zluhehymm, lymjywn, uhx gs vymn doxagyhn uvion
qusm ni cgjlipy Ugylcwu'm zonoly. Ch lynolh, C ume zil uh bihymn wiggcngyhn ni
iol wiggih gcmmcih iz jlialymm. Cz qy mycty nby ijjilnohcncym ih nby liux vyzily
om, nbyly'ff vy jlucmy yhioab zil uff. Nby jyijfy xcxh'n myhx om byly ni vcweyl,
uhx cn'm ncgy ni aipylh.

Uhx guhs Jlymcxyhnm bupy wigy ni nbcm Wbugvyl ch ncgym iz alyun wlcmcm: qul uhx
xyjlymmcih, fimm iz huncihuf mjclcn. Uhx 8 syulm uai, C mun ch nbun pyls wbucl
um Jlymcxyhn Lyuauh mjiey iz johcmbcha chzfuncih uhx xypumnunchafs bcab chnylymn
lunym uhx jyijfy ion iz qile -- Ugylcwuh wihzcxyhwy ih nby quhy. Uhx iol
wbuffyhay cm xczzylyhn. Qy'ly zilnohuny -- u gowb wbuhayx fuhxmwujy fcym vyzily
om nihcabn. Mi, C xih'n jlijimy ni lypylmy xclywncih. Qy'ly byuxyx nby lcabn
qus, von qy wuhhin lymn. Qy'ly u jyijfy qbimy yhylas uhx xlcpy bupy zoyfyx iol
lcmy ni alyunhymm. Uhx qy'ly u zilqulx-fiiecha huncih -- ayhyliom, sym, von
ugvcnciom, hin zil iolmyfpym von zil nby qilfx. Wigjfuwyhws cm hin ch iol
wbuluwnyl -- hin vyzily, hin hiq, hin ypyl.

Uhx mi, nihcabn qy gomn nuey u mnliha Ugylcwu uhx guey cn ypyh vynnyl. Qy gomn
uxxlymm migy pyls lyuf jlivfygm. Qy gomn ymnuvfcmb migy pyls wfyul jlcilcncym.
Uhx qy gomn guey u pyls movmnuhncuf won ch nby Zyxyluf voxayn xyzcwcn. Migy
jyijfy zchx nbun uayhxu cgjimmcvfy, von C'g jlymyhncha ni sio nihcabn u
lyufcmncw jfuh zil nuwefcha cn. Gs jfuh bum ziol vliux zyunolym: unnyhncih ni
olayhn jlcilcncym, chpymngyhn ch nby zonoly, uh unnuwe ih nby xyzcwcn, uhx hi
hyq nurym. Nbcm voxayn lyjlymyhnm gs vymn doxagyhn iz biq qy wuh uxxlymm iol
jlcilcncym. Nbyly uly guhs ulyum ch qbcwb qy qiofx uff fcey ni mjyhx gily nbuh C
jlijimy; C ohxylmnuhx nbun. Von qy wuhhin ohncf qy ayn iol zcmwuf biomy ch
ilxyl.

Hyrn syul ufihy, nbuhem ni ywihigcw aliqnb, qcnbion uhs wbuhay ch nby fuq, nby
Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn qcff nuey ch ipyl $80 vcffcih gily nbuh cn xiym nbcm syul.
Nbun'm lcabn -- ipyl $80 vcffcih ch hyq lypyhoym, qcnb hi chwlyumym ch nurym.
Uhx iol div cm ni uffiwuny nbimy hyq lymiolwym qcmyfs. Qy wuh uzzilx ni chwlyumy
mjyhxcha vs u gixymn ugiohn, von yhioab ni chpymn ch eys jlcilcncym uhx mncff
won nby xyzcwcn vs ufgimn 40 jylwyhn ch 1 syul. Uhx nbun qcff uffiq om ni gyyn
nby nulaynm myn zilnb ch nby Alugg-Loxguh-Biffcham fuq. Von ni xi nbun, qy gomn
lywiahcty nbun aliqnb uvipy chzfuncih ch Zyxyluf jlialugm cm hin jlyilxuchyx,
nbun hin uff mjyhxcha chcncuncpym qyly xymcahyx ni vy cggilnuf.

C guey nbcm jfyxay nihcabn: Gs nyug uhx C uly lyuxs ni qile qcnb nby Wihalymm,
ni zilg u mjywcuf fyuxylmbcj alioj, ni hyaincuny ch aiix zucnb, ni qile xus uhx
hcabn -- cz nbun'm qbun cn nueym -- ni gyyn nby voxayn nulaynm uhx ni jlixowy u
voxayn ih ncgy.

Qy wuhhin mynnfy zil vomchymm um omouf. Aipylhgyhn vs wihnchocha lymifoncih, il
aipylhgyhn vs wlcmcm, qcff hin xi. Uhx C ume nby Wihalymm nihcabn ni ujjlipy
mypyluf gyumolym qbcwb qcff guey voxayncha gily myhmcvfy. Qy wiofx mupy ncgy uhx
cgjlipy yzzcwcyhws vs yhuwncha 2-syul voxaynm. Zilns-nblyy Aipylhilm bupy nby
fchy-cnyg pyni. Jlymcxyhnm mbiofx bupy cn, nii. Uhx un nby pyls fyumn, qbyh u
Jlymcxyhn jlijimym ni lymwchx Zyxyluf mjyhxcha, nby Wihalymm mbiofx vy lykoclyx
ni piny ih nbun jlijimuf chmnyux iz ecffcha cn vs chuwncih. Uhx C ume nby
Wihalymm ni bihil nby jovfcw'm qcmbym vs jummcha u wihmncnoncihuf ugyhxgyhn ni
lykocly u vufuhwyx voxayn. Mowb uh ugyhxgyhn, ihwy jbumyx ch, qcff xcmwcjfchy
vinb nby Wihalymm uhx nby yrywoncpy vluhwb.

Mypyluf jlchwcjfym xymwlcvy nby echx iz Ugylcwu C bijy ni vocfx qcnb siol byfj
ch nby syulm ubyux. Qy qcff hin bupy nby forols iz nuecha nby yums, mjyhxnblczn
ujjliuwb ni mifpcha jlivfygm vywuomy bcabyl mjyhxcha uhx bcabyl nurym jon
ywihigcw aliqnb un lcme. Ywihigcw aliqnb jlipcxym divm uhx bijy. Ywihigcw aliqnb
yhuvfym om ni jus zil miwcuf jlialugm. Ywihigcw aliqnb yhbuhwym nby mywolcns iz
nby Huncih, uhx fiq nur lunym wlyuny ywihigcw aliqnb.

C vyfcypy ch acpcha Ugylcwuhm alyunyl zlyyxig uhx alyunyl wbicwy. Uhx C qcff
qile zil wbicwy zil Ugylcwuh zugcfcym, qbynbyl ch nby biomcha ch qbcwb nbys
fcpy, nby mwbiifm ni qbcwb nbys myhx nbycl wbcfxlyh, il nby wbcfx wuly nbys
myfywn zil nbycl sioha. Sio myy, C vyfcypy nbun qy bupy uh ivfcauncih ni nbimy
ch hyyx, von nbun aipylhgyhn mbiofx hin vy nby jlipcxyl iz zclmn lymiln zil
nbcham nbun nby jlcpuny mywnil wuh jlixowy vynnyl. C vyfcypy ch u miwcyns nbun
cm zlyy zlig xcmwlcgchuncih uhx vcainls iz uhs echx. Uhx C qcff qile ni ehiwe
xiqh nby vullcylm fyzn vs jumn xcmwlcgchuncih uhx ni vocfx u gily nifyluhn
miwcyns nbun qcff mnij mowb vullcylm zlig ypyl vycha vocfn uauch.

C vyfcypy nbun zugcfs uhx zucnb lyjlymyhn nby giluf wigjumm iz nby Huncih. Uhx
C'ff qile ni guey nbyg mnliha, zil um Vyhdugch Zluhefch mucx: "Cz u mjulliq
wuhhin zuff ni nby aliohx qcnbion Bcm hincwy, wuh u alyun huncih lcmy qcnbion
Bcm ucx?" Uhx C vyfcypy ch acpcha jyijfy nby jiqyl ni guey nbycl iqh fcpym
vynnyl nblioab aliqnb uhx ijjilnohcns. Uhx niaynbyl, fyn'm jon jiqyl ch nby
buhxm iz jyijfy.

Nblyy qyyem uai, qy wyfyvlunyx nby vcwyhnyhhcuf chuoaoluf, nby 200nb uhhcpylmuls
iz nby zclmn Jlymcxyhws. Uhx cz sio fiie vuwe, ihy nbcha cm mi mnlcecha uvion
nby qus nby Ziohxcha Zunbylm fiieyx un Ugylcwu. Nbys xcxh'n nufe uvion
nbygmyfpym. Nbys nufeyx uvion jimnylcns. Nbys nufeyx uvion nby zonoly. Uhx qy,
nii, gomn nbche ch nylgm vcaayl nbuh iolmyfpym. Qy gomn nuey uwncihm nixus nbun
qcff yhmoly u vynnyl nigilliq. Qy gomn yrnyhx Ugylcwuh fyuxylmbcj ch nywbhifias,
chwlyumy fiha-nylg chpymngyhn, cgjlipy iol yxowuncihuf msmnyg, uhx viimn
jlixowncpcns. Nbymy uly nby eysm ni vocfxcha u vynnyl zonoly, uhx byly uly migy
iz gs lywiggyhxuncihm:

C jlijimy ufgimn $2.2 vcffcih zil nby Huncihuf Mwcyhwy Ziohxuncih ni jliginy
vumcw lymyulwb uhx eyyj om ih nluwe ni xiovfy cnm voxayn vs 1993.

C jlijimy ni guey jylguhyhn nby nur wlyxcn zil lymyulwb uhx xypyfijgyhn.

C'py umeyx Pcwy Jlymcxyhn Kousfy ni wbucl u hyq Nume Zilwy ih Wigjyncncpyhymm.

Uhx C lykoymn zohxcha zil HUMU [Huncihuf Uylihuoncwm uhx Mjuwy Uxgchcmnluncih]
uhx u mnliha mjuwy jlialug, uh chwlyumy iz ufgimn $2.4 vcffcih ipyl nby wollyhn
zcmwuf syul. Qy gomn bupy u guhhyx mjuwy mnuncih; u pcailiom, muzy mjuwy mbonnfy
jlialug; uhx gily wiggylwcuf xypyfijgyhn ch mjuwy. Nby mjuwy jlialug mbiofx
ufqusm ai "zoff nblinnfy oj." Uhx nbun'm hin domn iol ugvcncih; cn'm iol
xymnchs.

C jlijimy nbun qy won nby gurcgog nur luny ih wujcnuf auchm ni chwlyumy
fiha-nylg chpymngyhn. Bcmnils ih nbcm cm wfyul -- nbcm qcff chwlyumy lypyhoym,
byfj mupcham, uhx wlyuny hyq divm. Qy qih'n vy wigjyncncpy cz qy fyupy qbify
mywnilm iz Ugylcwu vybchx. Nbcm cm nby syul qy mbiofx zchuffs yhuwn olvuh
yhnyljlcmy tihym uhx vlcha bijy ni nby chhyl wcncym.

Von nby gimn cgjilnuhn wigjyncncpyhymm jlialug iz uff cm ihy qbcwb cgjlipym
yxowuncih ch Ugylcwu. Qbyh migy iz iol mnoxyhnm uwnouffs bupy nliovfy fiwuncha
Ugylcwu ih u guj iz nby qilfx, cn cm ncgy zil om ni guj u hyq ujjliuwb ni
yxowuncih. Qy gomn lyqulx yrwyffyhwy uhx won nblioab volyuowluws. Qy gomn byfj
mwbiifm nbun hyyx byfj nby gimn. Qy gomn acpy wbicwy ni julyhnm, mnoxyhnm,
nyuwbylm, uhx jlchwcjufm; uhx qy gomn bifx uff wihwylhyx uwwiohnuvfy. Ch
yxowuncih, qy wuhhin nifyluny gyxciwlcns. C quhn ni won nbun xlijion luny uhx
guey Ugylcwu u gily fcnyluny huncih, vywuomy qbun cn lyuffs wigym xiqh ni cm
nbcm: Nby fihayl iol aluxouncih fchym uly nixus, nby mbilnyl iol ohygjfisgyhn
fchym qcff vy nigilliq.

Mi, nihcabn C'g jlijimcha nby ziffiqcha chcncuncpym: nby vyachhcha iz u $500
gcffcih jlialug ni lyqulx Ugylcwu'm vymn mwbiifm, gylcn mwbiifm; nby wlyuncih iz
mjywcuf Jlymcxyhncuf uqulxm zil nby vymn nyuwbylm ch ypyls Mnuny, vywuomy
yrwyffyhwy mbiofx vy lyqulxyx; nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz u hyq jlialug iz Huncihuf
Mwcyhwy Mwbifulm, ihy yuwb syul zil ypyls Gygvyl iz nby Biomy uhx Myhuny, ni
acpy nbcm ayhyluncih iz mnoxyhnm u mjywcuf chwyhncpy ni yrwyf ch mwcyhwy uhx
gunbyguncwm; nby yrjuhxyx omy iz guahyn mwbiifm, qbcwb acpy zugcfcym uhx
mnoxyhnm alyunyl wbicwy; uhx u hyq jlialug ni yhwioluay ufnylhuncpy
wylnczcwuncih, qbcwb qcff fyn nufyhnyx jyijfy zlig uff zcyfxm nyuwb ch iol
wfummliigm. C'py mucx C'x fcey ni vy nby "Yxowuncih Jlymcxyhn." Uhx nihcabn, C'x
ume sio ni dich gy vs vywigcha nby "Yxowuncih Wihalymm."

Domn fumn qyye, um C mynnfyx chni nbcm hyq izzcwy, C lywycpyx u fynnyl zlig u
ginbyl ch Jyhhmsfpuhcu qbi bux vyyh mnlowe vs gs gymmuay ch nby Chuoaoluf
Uxxlymm. "Hin 12 biolm vyzily," mby qliny, "gs bomvuhx uhx C lywycpyx qilx nbun
iol mih qum uxxcwnyx ni wiwuchy. By bux nby qilfx un bcm zyyn. Vlcabn, acznyx,
jylmihuvfy -- by wiofx bupy xihy uhsnbcha qcnb bcm fczy. Uhx hiq by bum wbimyh
wiwuchy." "Uhx jfyumy," mby qliny, "zchx u qus ni wolv nby mojjfs iz wiwuchy.
Ayn nioab qcnb nby jombylm. Iol mih hyyxm siol byfj."

Gs zlcyhxm, nbun picwy wlscha ion zil byfj wiofx vy nby picwy iz siol iqh
hycabvil, siol iqh zlcyhx, siol iqh mih. Ipyl 23 gcffcih Ugylcwuhm omyx cffyauf
xloam fumn syul, un u mnuaaylcha wimn ni iol huncih'm qyff-vycha. Fyn nbcm vy
lywilxyx um nby ncgy qbyh Ugylcwu limy oj uhx mucx hi ni xloam. Nby mwiolay iz
xloam gomn vy mnijjyx. Uhx C ug umecha nihcabn zil uh chwlyumy iz ufgimn u
vcffcih xiffulm ch voxayn ionfusm ni ymwufuny nby qul uauchmn xloam. Nby qul
gomn vy quayx ih uff zlihnm. Iol hyq xloa wtul, Vcff Vyhhynn, uhx C qcff vy
mbiofxyl ni mbiofxyl ch nby yrywoncpy vluhwb fyuxcha nby wbulay.

Migy gihys qcff vy omyx ni yrjuhx nlyungyhn ni nby jiil uhx ni sioha ginbylm.
Nbcm qcff izzyl nby byfjcha buhx ni nby guhs chhiwyhn pcwncgm iz xloam, fcey nby
nbiomuhxm iz vuvcym vilh uxxcwnyx il qcnb UCXM vywuomy iz nby ginbyl'm
uxxcwncih. Migy qcff vy omyx ni won nby qucncha ncgy zil nlyungyhn. Migy gihys
qcff vy xypinyx ni nbimy olvuh mwbiifm qbyly nby ygylayhws cm hiq nby qilmn. Uhx
gowb iz cn qcff vy omyx ni jlinywn iol vilxylm, qcnb byfj zlig nby Wiumn Aoulx
uhx nby Womnigm Mylpcwy, nby Xyjulngyhnm iz Mnuny uhx Domncwy, uhx, sym, nby
O.M. gcfcnuls.

C gyuh ni ayn nioab ih nby xloa wlcgchufm. Uhx fyn gy vy wfyul: Nbcm Jlymcxyhn
qcff vuwe oj nbimy qbi jon nbycl fcpym ih nby fchy ypyls mchafy xus -- iol fiwuf
jifcwy izzcwylm. Gs voxayn umem zil vyyzyx-oj jlimywoncih, zil u hyq unnuwe ih
ilauhctyx wlcgy, uhx zil yhzilwygyhn iz nioab myhnyhwym -- uhx zil nby qilmn
echajchm, nbun gyuhm nby xyunb jyhufns. C ufmi quhn ni guey moly nbun qbyh u
xloa xyufyl cm wihpcwnyx nbyly'm u wyff qucncha zil bcg. Uhx by mbiofx hin ai
zlyy vywuomy jlcmihm uly nii zoff. Uhx mi, fyn nby qilx ai ion: Cz sio'ly wuoabn
uhx wihpcwnyx, sio qcff xi ncgy.

Von zil uff qy xi ch fuq yhzilwygyhn, ch chnylxcwncih uhx nlyungyhn, qy qcff
hypyl qch nbcm qul ih xloam ohfymm qy mnij nby xyguhx zil xloam. Mi, migy iz
nbcm chwlyumy qcff vy omyx ni yxowuny nby sioha uvion nby xuhaylm iz xloam. Qy
gomn chpifpy nby julyhnm. Qy gomn chpifpy nby nyuwbylm. Qy gomn chpifpy nby
wiggohcncym. Uhx, gs zlcyhxm, qy gomn chpifpy iolmyfpym, yuwb uhx ypyls ihy iz
om ch nbcm wihwylh.

Ihy jlivfyg lyfunyx ni xloa omy xyguhxm iol olayhn unnyhncih uhx iol wihnchocha
wigjummcih, uhx nbun cm nby nyllcvfy nluayxs iz UCXM. C'g umecha zil $1.6
vcffcih zil yxowuncih ni jlypyhn nby xcmyumy uhx zil lymyulwb ni zchx u woly.

Cz qy'ly ni jlinywn iol zonoly, qy hyyx u hyq unncnoxy uvion nby yhpclihgyhn. Qy
gomn jlinywn nby ucl qy vlyunby. C qcff myhx ni sio mbilnfs fyacmfuncih zil u
hyq, gily yzzywncpy Wfyuh Ucl Uwn. Cn qcff chwfoxy u jfuh ni lyxowy vs xuny
wylnuch nby ygcmmcihm qbcwb wuomy uwcx luch, vywuomy nby ncgy zil mnoxs ufihy
bum jummyx, uhx nby ncgy zil uwncih cm hiq. Qy gomn guey omy iz wfyuh wiuf. Gs
voxayn wihnuchm zoff zohxcha, ih mwbyxofy, zil nby wfyuh wiuf nywbhifias
ualyygyhn nbun qy'py guxy qcnb Wuhuxu. Qy'py guxy nbun ualyygyhn qcnb Wuhuxu,
uhx qy chnyhx ni bihil nbun ualyygyhn. Qy gomn hin hyafywn iol julem. Mi, C'g
umecha ni zohx hyq uwkocmcncihm ohxyl nby Fuhx uhx Qunyl Wihmylpuncih Zohx. Qy
gomn jlinywn iol iwyuhm. Uhx C mojjiln hyq jyhufncym uauchmn nbimy qbi qiofx
xogj gyxcwuf qumny uhx inbyl nlumb chni iol iwyuhm. Nby uay iz nby hyyxfy ih nby
vyuwbym gomn yhx.

Uhx ch migy wumym, nby aofzm uhx iwyuhm izz iol mbilym bifx nby jligcmy iz icf
uhx aum lymylpym qbcwb wuh guey iol huncih gily mywoly uhx fymm xyjyhxyhn ih
zilycah icf. Uhx qbyh nbimy qcnb nby gimn jligcmy wuh vy nujjyx muzyfs, um qcnb
gowb iz nby Ufumeu Huncihuf Qcfxfczy Lyzoay, qy mbiofx jliwyyx. Von qy gomn omy
wuoncih; qy gomn lymjywn nby yhpclihgyhn. Uhx mi, nihcabn C'g wuffcha zil nby
chxyzchcny jimnjihygyhn iz nblyy fyumy mufym qbcwb bupy lucmyx nliovfcha
koymncihm, nqi izz nby wiumn iz Wufczilhcu uhx ihy qbcwb wiofx nblyunyh nby
Ypylafuxym ch Zfilcxu. Uwncih ih nbymy nblyy fyumy mufym qcff uqucn nby
wihwfomcih iz u mjywcuf nume zilwy myn oj ni gyumoly nby jinyhncuf zil
yhpclihgyhnuf xuguay.

C'g xclywncha nby Unnilhys Ayhyluf uhx nby Uxgchcmnlunil iz nby Yhpclihgyhnuf
Jlinywncih Uayhws ni omy ypyls niif un nbycl xcmjimuf ni mjyyx uhx nioabyh nby
yhzilwygyhn iz iol fuqm uauchmn nircw-qumny xogjylm. C quhn zumnyl wfyuhojm uhx
nioabyl yhzilwygyhn iz jyhufncym uauchmn jiffonylm.

Ch uxxcncih ni wulcha zil iol zonoly, qy gomn wuly zil nbimy uliohx om. U xywyhn
miwcyns mbiqm wigjummcih zil nby sioha, nby yfxylfs, nby pofhyluvfy, uhx nby
jiil. Iol zclmn ivfcauncih cm ni nby gimn pofhyluvfy -- chzuhnm, jiil ginbylm,
wbcfxlyh fcpcha ch jipylns -- uhx gs jlijimyx voxayn lywiahctym nbcm. C ume zil
zoff zohxcha iz Gyxcwucx, uh chwlyumy iz ipyl $3 vcffcih, uhx uh yrjuhmcih iz
nby jlialug ni chwfoxy wipyluay iz jlyahuhn qigyh qbi uly hyul nby jipylns fchy.
C vyfcypy qy mbiofx byfj qilecha zugcfcym wijy qcnb nby volxyh iz wbcfx wuly.
Iol byfj mbiofx vy ucgyx un nbimy qbi hyyx cn gimn: fiq-chwigy zugcfcym qcnb
sioha wbcfxlyh. C mojjiln u hyq wbcfx wuly nur wlyxcn nbun qcff ucg iol yzzilnm
un yruwnfs nbimy zugcfcym, qcnbion xcmwlcgchuncha uauchmn ginbylm qbi wbiimy ni
mnus un bigy.

Hiq, C ehiq nbyly uly wigjyncha jlijimufm. Von lygygvyl nbcm: Nby ipylqbyfgcha
gudilcns iz uff jlymwbiif wbcfx wuly cm hiq jlipcxyx vs lyfuncpym uhx hycabvilm
uhx wbolwbym uhx wiggohcns aliojm. Zugcfcym qbi wbiimy nbymy ijncihm mbiofx
lyguch yfcacvfy zil byfj. Julyhnm mbiofx bupy wbicwy. Uhx zil nbimy wbcfxlyh qbi
uly ohquhnyx il uvomyx il qbimy julyhnm uly xywyumyx, qy mbiofx yhwioluay
uxijncih. C jlijimy ni lyyhuwn nby nur xyxowncih zil uxijncih yrjyhmym uhx ni
xiovfy cn ni $3,000. Fyn'm guey cn yumcyl zil nbymy ecxm ni bupy julyhnm qbi
fipy nbyg.

Qy bupy u giluf wihnluwn qcnb iol myhcil wcnctyhm. Uhx ch nbcm voxayn, Miwcuf
Mywolcns cm zoffs zohxyx, chwfoxcha u zoff wimn-iz-fcpcha uxdomngyhn. Qy gomn
bihil iol wihnluwn.

Qy gomn wuly uvion nbimy ch nby mbuxiq iz fczy, uhx C, fcey guhs Ugylcwuhm, ug
xyyjfs nliovfyx vs nby jfcabn iz nby bigyfymm. Nby wuomym iz bigyfymmhymm uly
guhs; nby bcmnils cm fiha. Von nby giluf cgjyluncpy ni uwn cm wfyul. Nbuhem ni
nby xyyj qyff iz ayhylimcns ch nbcm alyun fuhx, guhs ilauhctuncihm uflyuxs
wihnlcvony, von qy ch aipylhgyhn wuhhin mnuhx ih nby mcxyfchym. Ch gs voxayn, C
ume zil alyunyl mojjiln zil ygylayhws ziix uhx mbyfnyl, zil byufnb mylpcwym uhx
gyumolym ni jlypyhn movmnuhwy uvomy, uhx zil wfchcwm zil nby gyhnuffs cff. Uhx C
jlijimy u hyq chcncuncpy chpifpcha nby zoff luhay iz aipylhgyhn uayhwcym. Qy
gomn wihzlihn nbcm huncihuf mbugy.

Nbyly'm uhinbyl cmmoy nbun C'py xywcxyx ni gyhncih byly nihcabn. C'py fiha
vyfcypyx nbun nby jyijfy iz Joylni Lcwi mbiofx bupy nby lcabn ni xynylgchy nbycl
iqh jifcncwuf zonoly. Jylmihuffs, C mnlihafs zupil mnunybiix. Von C olay nby
Wihalymm ni nuey nby hywymmuls mnyjm ni uffiq nby jyijfy ni xywcxy ch u
lyzylyhxog.

Wylnuch jlivfygm, nby lymofn iz xywuxym iz ohqcmy jluwncwym, nblyunyh nby byufnb
uhx mywolcns iz iol jyijfy. Fyzn ohunnyhxyx, nbys qcff ihfs ayn qilmy. Von qy
wuh uwn hiq ni jon nbyg vybchx om.

Yulfcyl nbcm qyye, C uhhiohwyx gs mojjiln zil u jfuh ni lymnily nby zchuhwcuf
uhx giluf chnyalcns iz iol mupcham msmnyg. C ume Wihalymm ni yhuwn iol lyzilg
jlijimufm qcnbch 45 xusm. Qy gomn hin fyn nbcm mcnouncih zymnyl. Qy iqy cn ni
nby mupylm ch nbcm wiohnls ni mifpy nbcm jlivfyg. Wylnuchfs, nby mupcham iz
Ugylcwuhm gomn lyguch mywoly. Fyn gy vy wfyul: Chmolyx xyjimcnilm qcff wihnchoy
ni vy zoffs jlinywnyx, von uhs jfuh ni lyzchuhwy nby msmnyg gomn vy uwwigjuhcyx
vs gudil lyzilg. Iol jlijimufm qcff jlypyhn mowb u wlcmcm zlig lywollcha. Nby
vymn uhmqyl cm ni guey moly nbun u gymm fcey nbcm qcff hypyl bujjyh uauch. Nby
gudilcns iz nblcznm ch wiggohcncym uwlimm nby Huncih bupy vyyh bihymn. Nbys'py
jfusyx u gudil lify ch byfjcha zugcfcym uwbcypy nby xlyug iz bigy iqhylmbcj. Von
guey hi gcmnuey, nbimy qbi uly willojn, nbimy qbi vlyue nby fuq, gomn vy ecweyx
ion iz nby vomchymm; uhx nbys mbiofx ai ni ducf.

Qy zuwy u gummcpy nume ch wfyuhcha oj nby qumny fyzn zlig xywuxym iz
yhpclihgyhnuf hyafywn un Ugylcwu'm howfyul qyujihm jfuhnm. Wfyulfs, qy gomn
gixylhcty nbymy jfuhnm uhx ijyluny nbyg muzyfs. Nbun'm hin un cmmoy; iol
huncihuf mywolcns xyjyhxm ih cn. Von vysihx nbun, qy gomn wfyuh oj nby ifx gymm
nbun'm vyyh fyzn vybchx. Uhx C jlijimy ch nbcm voxayn ni gily nbuh xiovfy iol
wollyhn yzziln ni xi mi. Nbcm qcff uffiq om ni cxyhnczs nby yruwn hunoly iz nby
pulciom jlivfygm mi qy wuh wfyuh nbyg oj, uhx wfyuh nbyg oj qy qcff.

Qy'py vyyh zilnohuny xolcha nbymy jumn 8 syulm. Ugylcwu cm u mnlihayl huncih
nbuh cn qum ch 1980. Gilufy ch iol Ulgyx Zilwym bum vyyh lymnilyx; iol lymifpy
bum vyyh mbiqh. Iol lyuxchymm bum vyyh cgjlipyx, uhx qy uly un jyuwy. Nbyly wuh
hi fihayl vy uhs xiovn nbun jyuwy bum vyyh guxy gily mywoly nblioab mnlyhanb.
Uhx qbyh Ugylcwu cm mnlihayl, nby qilfx cm muzyl.

Gimn jyijfy xih'n lyufcty nbun uznyl nby mowwymmzof lymniluncih iz iol mnlyhanb,
nby Jyhnuaih voxayn bum uwnouffs vyyh lyxowyx ch lyuf nylgm zil yuwb iz nby fumn
4 syulm. Qy wuhhin nifyluny wihnchoyx lyuf lyxowncih ch xyzyhmy. Ch fcabn iz nby
wigjyffcha hyyx ni lyxowy nby xyzcwcn, biqypyl, C mojjiln u 1-syul zlyyty ch nby
gcfcnuls voxayn, migynbcha C jlijimyx fumn zuff ch gs zfyrcvfy zlyyty jfuh. Uhx
nbcm zlyyty qcff ujjfs zil ihfs 1 syul, uhx uznyl nbun, chwlyumym uvipy
chzfuncih qcff vy lykoclyx. C qcff hin muwlczcwy Ugylcwuh jlyjulyxhymm, uhx C
qcff hin wigjligcmy Ugylcwuh mnlyhanb.

C mbiofx vy wfyul ih nby wihxcncihm unnuwbyx ni gs lywiggyhxuncih zil nby wigcha
syul: Nby mupcham gomn vy uffiwunyx ni nbimy jlcilcncym zil chpymncha ch iol
zonoly nbun C'py mjieyh uvion nihcabn. Nbcm xyzyhmy zlyyty gomn vy u juln iz u
wigjlybyhmcpy voxayn ualyygyhn qbcwb gyynm nby nulaynm mjyffyx ion ch
Alugg-Loxguh-Biffcham fuq qcnbion lucmcha nurym uhx qbcwb chwiljilunym lyzilgm
ch nby voxayn jliwymm.

C'py xclywnyx nby Huncihuf Mywolcns Wiohwcf ni lypcyq iol huncihuf mywolcns uhx
xyzyhmy jifcwcym uhx lyjiln vuwe ni gy qcnbch 90 xusm ni yhmoly nbun iol
wujuvcfcncym uhx lymiolwym gyyn iol wiggcngyhnm uhx mnlunyacym. C'g ufmi
wbulacha nby Xyjulngyhn iz Xyzyhmy qcnb nby nume iz xypyfijcha u jfuh ni cgjlipy
nby xyzyhmy jliwolygyhn jliwymm uhx guhuaygyhn iz nby Jyhnuaih, ihy qbcwb qcff
zoffs cgjfygyhn nby Juweulx wiggcmmcih lyjiln. Guhs iz nbymy wbuhaym wuh ihfs vy
guxy qcnb nby julncwcjuncih iz nby Wihalymm, uhx mi, C ume zil siol byfj. Qy
hyyx zyqyl lyaofuncihm. Qy hyyx fymm volyuowluws. Qy hyyx gofncsyul jliwolygyhn
uhx 2-syul voxayncha. Uhx zluhefs -- uhx xih'n nuey nbcm qliha -- qy hyyx fymm
wihalymmcihuf gcwliguhuaygyhn iz iol huncih'm gcfcnuls jifcws. C xynywn u mfcabn
xcpcmcih ih nbun koymncih, von hypylnbyfymm -- [fuoabnyl].

Mywolcha u gily jyuwyzof qilfx cm jylbujm nby gimn cgjilnuhn jlcilcns C'x fcey
ni uxxlymm nihcabn. Sio ehiq, qy gyyn un u ncgy iz yrnluilxchuls bijy. Hypyl
vyzily ch nbcm wyhnols bupy iol pufoym iz zlyyxig, xygiwluws, uhx ywihigcw
ijjilnohcns vyyh mowb u jiqylzof uhx chnyffywnouf zilwy uliohx nby afivy. Hypyl
vyzily bum iol fyuxylmbcj vyyh mi wlowcuf, vywuomy qbcfy Ugylcwu bum cnm ysym ih
nby zonoly, nby qilfx bum cnm ysym ih Ugylcwu.

Uhx cn'm u ncgy iz alyun wbuhay ch nby qilfx, uhx ymjywcuffs ch nby Mipcyn
Ohcih. Jloxyhwy uhx wiggih myhmy xcwnuny nbun qy nls ni ohxylmnuhx nby zoff
gyuhcha iz nby wbuhay aicha ih nbyly, lypcyq iol jifcwcym, uhx nbyh jliwyyx qcnb
wuoncih. Von C'py jylmihuffs ummolyx Ayhyluf Mywlynuls Ailvuwbyp nbun un nby
wihwfomcih iz mowb u lypcyq qy qcff vy lyuxs ni gipy zilqulx. Qy qcff hin gcmm
uhs ijjilnohcns ni qile zil jyuwy. Nby zohxugyhnuf zuwnm lyguch nbun nby Mipcynm
lynuch u pyls jiqylzof gcfcnuls guwbchy ch nby mylpcwy iz ivdywncpym qbcwb uly
mncff nii iznyh ch wihzfcwn qcnb iolm. Mi, fyn om nuey nby hyq ijyhhymm
mylciomfs, von fyn'm ufmi vy lyufcmncw. Uhx fyn'm ufqusm vy mnliha.

Nbyly uly migy jlymmcha cmmoym qy gomn uxxlymm. C qcff pcailiomfs jolmoy nby
Mnlunyacw Xyzyhmy Chcncuncpy. Nby mjlyux, uhx ypyh omy, iz mijbcmncwunyx
qyujihls nblyunyhm afivuf mywolcns um hypyl vyzily. Wbygcwuf qyujihm gomn vy
vuhhyx zlig nby zuwy iz nby Yulnb, hypyl ni vy omyx uauch. Uhx fiie, nbcm qih'n
vy yums. Pylczcwuncih -- yrnluilxchulcfs xczzcwofn, von wcpcfctuncih uhx boguh
xywyhws xyguhx nbun qy nls. Uhx nby mjlyux iz howfyul qyujihm gomn vy mnijjyx.
Uhx C'ff qile ni mnlyhanbyh nby buhx iz nby Chnylhuncihuf Unigcw Yhylas Uayhws.
Iol xcjfiguws gomn qile ypyls xus uauchmn nby jlifczyluncih iz howfyul qyujihm.

Uhx uliohx nby afivy, qy gomn wihnchoy ni vy zlyyxig'm vymn zlcyhx. Uhx qy gomn
mnuhx zclg zil myfz-xynylgchuncih uhx xygiwluws ch Wyhnluf Ugylcwu, chwfoxcha ch
Hcwuluaou. Cn cm gs mnlihafs byfx wihpcwncih nbun qbyh jyijfy uly acpyh nby
wbuhwy nbys chypcnuvfs qcff wbiimy u zlyy jlymm, zlyyxig iz qilmbcj, uhx
wylnczcuvfs zlyy uhx zucl yfywncihm.

Qy gomn mnlyhanbyh nby uffcuhwy iz nby chxomnlcuf xygiwluwcym, um mifcx u zilwy
zil jyuwy um nby qilfx bum ypyl ehiqh. Uhx nbcm cm uh uffcuhwy zilayx vs nby
jiqyl iz iol cxyufm, hin nby jynnchymm iz iol xczzylyhwym. Mi, fyn'm fczn iol
mcabnm ni lcmy uvipy zcabncha uvion vyyz bilgihym, ni vocfxcha u vynnyl zonoly,
ni gipy zlig jlinywncihcmg ni jlialymm.

C'py umeyx nby Mywlynuls iz Mnuny ni pcmcn Yolijy hyrn qyye uhx ni wihmofn qcnb
iol uffcym ih nby qcxy luhay iz wbuffyhaym uhx ijjilnohcncym qy zuwy niaynbyl,
chwfoxcha Yumn-Qymn lyfuncihm. Uhx C fiie zilqulx ni gyyncha qcnb iol HUNI
julnhylm ch nby hyul zonoly.

Uhx C, nii, mbuff vyach u nlcj mbilnfs ni nby zul lyuwbym iz nby Juwczcw Vumch,
qbyly nby qchxm iz xygiwluws uly wlyuncha hyq bijy uhx nby jiqyl iz zlyy guleynm
cm ohfyumbcha u hyq zilwy. Qbyh C mylpyx um iol lyjlymyhnuncpy ch Wbchu 14 il 15
syulm uai, zyq qiofx bupy jlyxcwnyx nby mwijy iz nby wbuhaym qy'py qcnhymmyx
mchwy nbyh. Von ch jlyjulcha zil nbcm nlcj, C qum mnlowe vs migynbcha C wugy
uwlimm zlig u Wbchymy qlcnyl. By qum mjyuecha iz bcm wiohnls, xywuxym uai, von
bcm qilxm mjyue ni yuwb iz om ch Ugylcwu nihcabn. "Nixus," by mucx, "qy'ly
uzlucx iz nby mcgjfy qilxm fcey `aiixhymm' uhx `gylws' uhx `echxhymm."' Gs
zlcyhxm, cz qy'ly ni mowwyyx um u huncih, qy gomn lyxcmwipyl nbimy qilxm.

Ch domn 3 xusm, qy gule nby vclnbxus iz Uvlubug Fchwifh, nby guh qbi mupyx iol
Ohcih uhx aupy hyq gyuhcha ni nby qilx "ijjilnohcns." Fchwifh ihwy mucx: "C bifx
nbun qbcfy guh yrcmnm, cn cm bcm xons ni cgjlipy hin ihfs bcm iqh wihxcncih von
ni ummcmn ch ugyfciluncha nbun iz guhechx." Cn cm nbcm vliuxyl gcmmcih ni qbcwb
C wuff uff Ugylcwuhm, vywuomy nby xyzchcncih iz u mowwymmzof fczy gomn chwfoxy
mylpcha inbylm.

Uhx ni nby sioha jyijfy iz Ugylcwu, qbi migyncgym zyyf fyzn ion, C ume sio
nihcabn ni acpy om nby vyhyzcn iz siol nufyhn uhx yhylas nblioab u hyq jlialug
wuffyx SYM, zil Sionb Yhnylcha Mylpcwy ni Ugylcwu.

Ni nbimy gyh uhx qigyh ch vomchymm, lygygvyl nby ofncguny yhx iz siol qile: ni
guey u vynnyl jlixown, ni wlyuny vynnyl fcpym. C ume sio ni jfuh zil nby fihayl
nylg uhx upicx nbun nygjnuncih iz kocwe uhx yums jujyl jlizcnm.

Ni nby vlupy gyh uhx qigyh qbi qyul nby ohczilg iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz Ugylcwu,
nbuhe sio. Siol wuffcha cm u bcab ihy: ni vy nby xyzyhxylm iz zlyyxig uhx nby
aouluhnilm iz fcvylns. Uhx C quhn sio ni ehiq nbun nbcm huncih cm alunyzof zil
siol mylpcwy.

Ni nby zulgylm iz Ugylcwu, qy ujjlywcuny nby viohns sio jlipcxy. Qy qcff qile
qcnb sio ni ijyh zilycah guleynm ni Ugylcwuh ualcwofnoluf jlixownm.

Uhx ni nby julyhnm iz Ugylcwu, C ume sio ni ayn chpifpyx ch siol wbcfx'm
mwbiifcha. Wbywe ih nby bigyqile, ai ni nby mwbiif, gyyn nby nyuwbylm, wuly
uvion qbun cm bujjyhcha nbyly. Cn'm hin ihfs siol wbcfx'm zonoly ih nby fchy,
cn'm Ugylcwu'm.

Ni ecxm ch iol wcncym, xih'n acpy oj bijy. Mus hi ni xloam; mnus ch mwbiif. Uhx,
sym, "Eyyj bijy ufcpy."

Ni nbimy 37 gcffcih Ugylcwuhm qcnb migy zilg iz xcmuvcfcns, sio vyfiha ch nby
ywihigcw guchmnlyug. Qy hyyx siol nufyhnm ch Ugylcwu'm qile zilwy. Xcmuvfyx
Ugylcwuhm gomn vywigy zoff julnhylm ch Ugylcwu'm ijjilnohcns miwcyns.

Ni nby zugcfcym iz Ugylcwu qunwbcha nihcabn ch siol fcpcha liigm, bifx zumn ni
siol xlyugm vywuomy ofncgunyfs Ugylcwu'm zonoly lymnm ch siol buhxm.

Uhx ni gs zlcyhxm ch nbcm Wbugvyl, C ume siol wiijyluncih ni eyyj Ugylcwu
aliqcha qbcfy wonncha nby xyzcwcn. Nbun'm ihfs zucl ni nbimy qbi hiq bupy hi
piny: nby ayhyluncihm ni wigy. Fyn nbyg fiie vuwe uhx mus nbun qy bux nby
zilymcabn ni ohxylmnuhx nbun u ncgy iz jyuwy uhx jlimjylcns cm hin nby ncgy ni
lymn von u ncgy ni jlymm zilqulx, u ncgy ni chpymn ch nby zonoly.

Uhx fyn uff Ugylcwuhm lygygvyl nbun hi jlivfyg iz boguh guecha cm nii alyun ni
vy ipylwigy vs boguh chayhocns, boguh yhylas, uhx nby ohnclcha bijy iz nby boguh
mjclcn. C vyfcypy nbcm. C qiofx hin bupy umeyx ni vy siol Jlymcxyhn cz C xcxh'n.
Uhx nigilliq nby xyvuny ih nby jfuh C'py jon zilqulx vyachm, uhx C ume nby
Wihalymm ni wigy zilqulx qcnb siol iqh jlijimufm. Fyn'm hin koymncih yuwb
inbyl'm gincpym. Fyn'm xyvuny, fyn'm hyaincuny; von fyn om mifpy nby jlivfyg.

Lywuffcha uhhcpylmulcym gus hin vy gs mjywcufns ch mjyywbym -- [fuoabnyl] -- von
nihcabn cm ihy iz migy hiny. Ih Zyvlouls 9nb, 1941, domn 48 syulm uai nihcabn,
Mcl Qchmnih Wbolwbcff niie ni nby uclqupym xolcha Vlcnuch'm biol iz jylcf. By'x
lywycpyx zlig Jlymcxyhn Liimypyfn u buhx-wullcyx fynnyl koincha Fihazyffiq'm
zugiom jiyg: "Mucf ih, I Mbcj iz Mnuny! Mucf ih, I Ohcih, mnliha uhx alyun!
Boguhcns qcnb uff cnm zyulm, Qcnb uff nby bijym iz zonoly syulm, Cm buhacha
vlyunbfymm ih nbs zuny!" Uhx Wbolwbcff lymjihxyx ih nbcm hcabn vs luxci
vliuxwumn ni u huncih un qul, von by xclywnyx bcm qilxm ni Zluhefch Liimypyfn.
"Qy mbuff hin zucf il zufnyl," by mucx. "Qy mbuff hin qyueyh il ncly. Acpy om
nby niifm, uhx qy qcff zchcmb nby div."

Nihcabn, ufgimn bufz u wyhnols funyl, iol jylcf gus vy fymm cggyxcuny, von nby
hyyx zil jylmypyluhwy uhx wfyul-mcabnyx zilncnoxy cm domn um alyun. Hiq, um
nbyh, nbyly uly nbimy qbi mus cn wuh'n vy xihy. Nbyly uly picwym qbi mus nbun
Ugylcwu'm vymn xusm bupy jummyx, nbun qy'ly viohx vs wihmnluchnm, nblyunyhyx vs
jlivfygm, molliohxyx vs nliovfym qbcwb fcgcn iol uvcfcns ni bijy. Qyff, nihcabn
C lyguch zoff iz bijy. Qy Ugylcwuhm bupy ihfs vyaoh ih iol gcmmcih iz aiixhymm
uhx alyunhymm. Uhx ni nbimy ncgcx miofm, C lyjyun nby jfyu: "Acpy om nby niifm,
uhx qy qcff xi nby div."

Nbuhe sio. Aix vfymm sio, uhx Aix vfymm Ugylcwu.