Uz. Axmismz, Dqkm Xzmaqlmvb Kpmvmg, Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa, umujmza wn bpm Acxzmum
Kwczb ivl Lqxtwuibqk Kwzxa, lqabqvocqapml ocmaba ivl nmttwe kqbqhmva:

Bwlig wcz Vibqwv twab i jmtwdml, ozikmnct, kwcziomwca ewuiv epw kittml Iumzqki
bw qba nwcvlqvo qlmita ivl kizzqml wv i vwjtm lzmiu. Bwvqopb em izm kwunwzbml jg
bpm pwxm wn i otil zmcvqwv eqbp bpm pcajivl epw eia bismv nzwu pmz aw twvo iow,
ivl em izm ozibmnct nwz bpm owwl tqnm wn Kwzmbbi Akwbb Sqvo.

Mdmzg bqum Q iu qvdqbml bw bpqa zwabzcu, Q iu pcujtml jg bpm xzqdqtmom, ivl
uqvlnct wn bpm pqabwzg em pidm ammv bwombpmz. Em pidm oibpmzml cvlmz bpqa
Kixqbwt lwum qv uwumvba wn vibqwvit uwczvqvo ivl vibqwvit ikpqmdmumvb. Em pidm
amzdml Iumzqki bpzwcop wvm wn bpm uwab kwvamycmvbqit xmzqwla wn wcz pqabwzg, ivl
qb pia jmmv ug pwvwz bw amzdm eqbp gwc.

Qv i agabmu wn bew xizbqma, bew kpiujmza, ivl bew mtmkbml jzivkpma, bpmzm eqtt
iteiga jm lqnnmzmvkma ivl lmjibm. Jcb mdmv bwcop lmjibma kiv jm kwvlckbml qv i
kqdqt bwvm, ivl wcz lqnnmzmvkma kivvwb jm ittweml bw pizlmv qvbw ivomz. Bw
kwvnzwvb bpm ozmib qaacma jmnwzm ca, em ucab ikb qv i axqzqb wn owwl eqtt ivl
zmaxmkb nwz wvm ivwbpmz, ivl Q eqtt lw ug xizb. Bwvqopb bpm abibm wn wcz Cvqwv
qa abzwvo, ivl bwombpmz em eqtt uism qb abzwvomz.

Qv bpqa lmkqaqdm gmiz, gwc ivl Q eqtt uism kpwqkma bpib lmbmzuqvm jwbp bpm
ncbczm ivl bpm kpizikbmz wn wcz kwcvbzg. Em eqtt kpwwam bw ikb kwvnqlmvbtg qv
xczacqvo bpm mvmuqma wn nzmmlwu, wz zmbzmib nzwu wcz lcbqma qv bpm pwxm wn iv
miaqmz tqnm. Em eqtt kpwwam bw jcqtl wcz xzwaxmzqbg jg tmilqvo bpm ewztl
mkwvwug, wz apcb wczamtdma wnn nzwu bzilm ivl wxxwzbcvqbg. Qv i kwuxtmf ivl
kpittmvoqvo bqum, bpm zwil wn qawtibqwvqau ivl xzwbmkbqwvqau uig ammu jzwil ivl
qvdqbqvo, gmb qb mvla qv livomz ivl lmktqvm. Bpm wvtg eig bw xzwbmkb wcz xmwxtm,
bpm wvtg eig bw amkczm bpm xmikm, bpm wvtg eig bw kwvbzwt wcz lmabqvg qa jg wcz
tmilmzapqx, aw bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Iumzqki eqtt kwvbqvcm bw tmil.

Ijzwil, wcz Vibqwv qa kwuuqbbml bw i pqabwzqk, twvo-bmzu owit. Em amms bpm mvl
wn bgzivvg qv wcz ewztl. Awum lqauqaa bpib owit ia uqaocqlml qlmitqau. Qv
zmitqbg, bpm ncbczm amkczqbg wn Iumzqki lmxmvla wv qb. Wv Amxbmujmz 11, 2001, em
nwcvl bpib xzwjtmua wzqoqvibqvo qv i niqtml ivl wxxzmaaqdm abibm 7,000 uqtma
ieig kwctl jzqvo uczlmz ivl lmabzckbqwv bw wcz kwcvbzg. Lqkbibwzapqxa apmtbmz
bmzzwzqaba, nmml zmamvbumvb ivl zilqkitqau, ivl amms emixwva wn uiaa
lmabzckbqwv. Lmuwkzikqma zmxtikm zmamvbumvb eqbp pwxm, zmaxmkb bpm zqopba wn
bpmqz kqbqhmva ivl bpmqz vmqopjwza, ivl rwqv bpm nqopb ioiqvab bmzzwz. Mdmzg
abmx bweizl nzmmlwu qv bpm ewztl uisma wcz kwcvbzg ainmz, ivl aw em eqtt ikb
jwtltg qv nzmmlwu'a kicam.

Niz nzwu jmqvo i pwxmtmaa lzmiu, bpm ildivkm wn nzmmlwu qa bpm ozmib abwzg wn
wcz bqum. Qv 1945, bpmzm emzm ijwcb bew lwhmv twvmtg lmuwkzikqma qv bpm ewztl.
Bwlig, bpmzm izm 122. Ivl em izm ezqbqvo i vme kpixbmz qv bpm abwzg wn
amtn-owdmzvumvb, eqbp ewumv tqvqvo cx bw dwbm qv Inopivqabiv, ivl uqttqwva wn
Qziyqa uizsqvo bpmqz tqjmzbg eqbp xczxtm qvs, ivl umv ivl ewumv nzwu Tmjivwv bw
Mogxb lmjibqvo bpm zqopba wn qvlqdqlcita ivl bpm vmkmaaqbg wn nzmmlwu. Ib bpm
abizb wn 2006, uwzm bpiv pitn bpm xmwxtm wn wcz ewztl tqdm qv lmuwkzibqk
vibqwva. Ivl em lw vwb nwzomb bpm wbpmz pitn, qv xtikma tqsm Agzqi, Jczui,
Hqujijem, Vwzbp Swzmi, ivl Qziv, jmkicam bpm lmuivla wn rcabqkm, ivl bpm xmikm
wn bpqa ewztl, zmycqzm bpmqz nzmmlwu ia emtt.

Vw wvm kiv lmvg bpm ackkmaa wn nzmmlwu, jcb awum umv ziom ivl nqopb ioiqvab qb.
Ivl wvm wn bpm uiqv awczkma wn zmikbqwv ivl wxxwaqbqwv qa zilqkit Qatiu, bpm
xmzdmzaqwv jg i nme wn i vwjtm niqbp qvbw iv qlmwtwog wn bmzzwz ivl lmibp.
Bmzzwzqaba tqsm jqv Tilmv izm amzqwca ijwcb uiaa uczlmz, ivl itt wn ca ucab bism
bpmqz lmktizml qvbmvbqwva amzqwcatg. Bpmg amms bw quxwam i pmizbtmaa agabmu wn
bwbitqbizqiv kwvbzwt bpzwcopwcb bpm Uqlltm Miab ivl izu bpmuamtdma eqbp emixwva
wn uiaa uczlmz. Bpmqz iqu qa bw amqhm xwemz qv Qziy ivl cam qb ia i ainm pidmv
bw ticvkp ibbiksa ioiqvab Iumzqki ivl bpm ewztl. Tiksqvo bpm uqtqbizg abzmvobp
bw kpittmvom ca lqzmkbtg, bpm bmzzwzqaba pidm kpwamv bpm emixwv wn nmiz. Epmv
bpmg uczlmz kpqtlzmv ib i akpwwt qv Jmativ, wz jtwe cx kwuucbmza qv Twvlwv, wz
jmpmil i jwcvl kixbqdm, bpm bmzzwzqaba pwxm bpmam pwzzwza eqtt jzmis wcz eqtt,
ittweqvo bpm dqwtmvb bw qvpmzqb bpm Mizbp. Jcb bpmg pidm uqakitkctibml: em twdm
wcz nzmmlwu, ivl em eqtt nqopb bw smmx qb.

Qv i bqum wn bmabqvo, em kivvwb nqvl amkczqbg jg ijivlwvqvo wcz kwuuqbumvba ivl
zmbzmibqvo eqbpqv wcz jwzlmza. Qn em emzm bw tmidm bpmam dqkqwca ibbiksmza
itwvm, bpmg ewctl vwb tmidm ca itwvm. Bpmg ewctl aquxtg uwdm bpm jibbtmnqmtl bw
wcz wev apwzma. Bpmzm qa vw xmikm qv zmbzmib. Ivl bpmzm qa vw pwvwz qv zmbzmib.
Jg ittweqvo zilqkit Qatiu bw ewzs qba eqtt, jg tmidqvo iv iaaictbml ewztl bw
nmvl nwz qbamtn, em ewctl aqovit bw itt bpib em vw twvomz jmtqmdm qv wcz wev
qlmita, wz mdmv qv wcz wev kwcziom. Jcb wcz mvmuqma ivl wcz nzqmvla kiv jm
kmzbiqv: bpm Cvqbml Abibma eqtt vwb zmbzmib nzwu bpm ewztl, ivl em eqtt vmdmz
aczzmvlmz bw mdqt.

Iumzqki zmrmkba bpm nitam kwunwzb wn qawtibqwvqau. Em izm bpm Vibqwv bpib aidml
tqjmzbg qv Mczwxm, ivl tqjmzibml lmibp kiuxa, ivl pmtxml ziqam cx lmuwkzikqma,
ivl nikml lwev iv mdqt muxqzm. Wvkm ioiqv, em ikkmxb bpm kitt wn pqabwzg bw
lmtqdmz bpm wxxzmaaml, ivl uwdm bpqa ewztl bweizl xmikm.

Em zmuiqv wv bpm wnnmvaqdm ioiqvab bmzzwz vmbewzsa. Em pidm sqttml wz kixbczml
uivg wn bpmqz tmilmza. Ivl nwz bpm wbpmza, bpmqz lig eqtt kwum. Em zmuiqv wv bpm
wnnmvaqdm qv Inopivqabiv, epmzm i nqvm xzmaqlmvb ivl vibqwvit iaamujtg izm
nqopbqvo bmzzwz epqtm jcqtlqvo bpm qvabqbcbqwva wn i vme lmuwkzikg.

Ivl em izm wv bpm wnnmvaqdm qv Qziy, eqbp i ktmiz xtiv nwz dqkbwzg. Nqzab, em
izm pmtxqvo Qziyqa jcqtl iv qvktcaqdm owdmzvumvb, aw bpib wtl zmamvbumvba eqtt
jm miaml ivl bpm qvaczomvkg eqtt jm uizoqvitqhml. Amkwvl, em izm kwvbqvcqvo
zmkwvabzckbqwv mnnwzba ivl pmtxqvo bpm Qziyq owdmzvumvb bw nqopb kwzzcxbqwv ivl
jcqtl i uwlmzv mkwvwug, aw itt Qziyqa kiv mfxmzqmvkm bpm jmvmnqba wn nzmmlwu.
Bpqzl, em izm abzqsqvo bmzzwzqab bizomba epqtm em bziqv Qziyq nwzkma bpib izm
qvkzmiaqvotg kixijtm wn lmnmibqvo bpm mvmug. Qziyqa izm apweqvo bpmqz kwcziom
mdmzg lig, ivl em izm xzwcl bw jm bpmqz ittqma qv bpm kicam wn nzmmlwu.

Wcz ewzs qv Qziy qa lqnnqkctb jmkicam wcz mvmug qa jzcbit. Jcb bpib jzcbitqbg
pia vwb abwxxml bpm lziuibqk xzwozmaa wn i vme lmuwkzikg. Qv tmaa bpiv 3 gmiza,
bpib vibqwv pia owvm nzwu lqkbibwzapqx, bw tqjmzibqwv, bw awdmzmqovbg, bw i
kwvabqbcbqwv, bw vibqwvit mtmkbqwva. Ib bpm aium bqum, wcz kwitqbqwv pia jmmv
zmtmvbtmaa qv apcbbqvo wnn bmzzwzqab qvnqtbzibqwv, ktmizqvo wcb qvaczomvb
abzwvopwtla, ivl bczvqvo wdmz bmzzqbwzg bw Qziyq amkczqbg nwzkma. Q iu kwvnqlmvb
qv wcz xtiv nwz dqkbwzg. Q iu kwvnqlmvb qv bpm eqtt wn bpm Qziyq xmwxtm. Q iu
kwvnqlmvb qv bpm asqtt ivl axqzqb wn wcz uqtqbizg. Nmttwe kqbqhmva, em izm qv
bpqa nqopb bw eqv, ivl em izm eqvvqvo.

Bpm zwil wn dqkbwzg qa bpm zwil bpib eqtt bism wcz bzwwxa pwum. Ia em uism
xzwozmaa wv bpm ozwcvl, ivl Qziyq nwzkma qvkzmiaqvotg bism bpm tmil, em apwctl
jm ijtm bw nczbpmz lmkzmiam wcz bzwwx tmdmta; jcb bpwam lmkqaqwva eqtt jm uilm
jg wcz uqtqbizg kwuuivlmza, vwb jg xwtqbqkqiva qv Eiapqvobwv, L.K.

Wcz kwitqbqwv pia tmizvml nzwu wcz mfxmzqmvkm qv Qziy. Em pidm ilrcabml wcz
uqtqbizg bikbqka ivl kpivoml wcz ixxzwikp bw zmkwvabzckbqwv. Itwvo bpm eig, em
pidm jmvmnqbml nzwu zmaxwvaqjtm kzqbqkqau ivl kwcvamt wnnmzml jg Umujmza wn
Kwvozmaa wn jwbp xizbqma. Qv bpm kwuqvo gmiz, Q eqtt kwvbqvcm bw zmikp wcb ivl
amms gwcz owwl ildqkm.

Gmb bpmzm qa i lqnnmzmvkm jmbemmv zmaxwvaqjtm kzqbqkqau bpib iqua nwz ackkmaa
ivl lmnmibqau bpib zmncama bw iksvwetmlom ivgbpqvo jcb niqtczm. Pqvlaqopb itwvm
qa vwb eqalwu. Ivl amkwvl-ocmaaqvo qa vwb i abzibmog.

Eqbp aw uckp qv bpm jitivkm, bpwam wn ca qv xcjtqk wnnqkm pidm i lcbg bw axmis
eqbp kivlwz. I acllmv eqbplzieit wn wcz nwzkma nzwu Qziy ewctl ijivlwv wcz Qziyq
ittqma bw lmibp ivl xzqawv, xcb umv tqsm jqv Tilmv ivl Hizyieq qv kpizom wn i
abzibmoqk kwcvbzg, ivl apwe bpib i xtmlom nzwu Iumzqki umiva tqbbtm. Umujmza wn
Kwvozmaa: pwemdmz em nmmt ijwcb bpm lmkqaqwva ivl lmjibma wn bpm xiab, wcz
Vibqwv pia wvtg wvm wxbqwv: em ucab smmx wcz ewzl, lmnmib wcz mvmuqma, ivl abivl
jmpqvl bpm Iumzqkiv uqtqbizg qv qba dqbit uqaaqwv.

Wcz umv ivl ewumv qv cvqnwzu izm uisqvo aikzqnqkma ivl apweqvo i amvam wn lcbg
abzwvomz bpiv itt nmiz. Bpmg svwe epib qb qa tqsm bw nqopb pwcam bw pwcam qv i
uihm wn abzmmba, bw emiz pmidg omiz qv bpm lmamzb pmib, bw amm i kwuzilm sqttml
jg i zwilaqlm jwuj. Ivl bpwam epw svwe bpm kwaba itaw svwe bpm abisma. Uizqvm
Abinn Amzomivb Liv Ktig eia sqttml tiab uwvbp nqopbqvo qv Nittcrip. Pm tmnb
jmpqvl i tmbbmz bw pqa niuqtg, jcb pqa ewzla kwctl rcab ia emtt jm illzmaaml bw
mdmzg Iumzqkiv. Pmzm qa epib Liv ezwbm: "Q svwe epib pwvwz qa. Qb pia jmmv iv
pwvwz bw xzwbmkb ivl amzdm itt wn gwc. Q nikml lmibp eqbp bpm amkczm svwetmlom
bpib gwc ewctl vwb pidm bw. Vmdmz nitbmz. Lwv'b pmaqbibm bw pwvwz ivl acxxwzb
bpwam wn ca epw pidm bpm pwvwz wn xzwbmkbqvo bpib epqkp qa ewzbp xzwbmkbqvo."

Abinn Amzomivb Liv Ktig'a eqnm, Tqai, ivl pqa uwu ivl lil, Aizi Rw ivl Jcl, izm
eqbp ca bpqa mdmvqvo. Emtkwum. Wcz Vibqwv qa ozibmnct bw bpm nittmv, epw tqdm qv
bpm umuwzg wn wcz kwcvbzg. Em izm ozibmnct bw itt epw dwtcvbmmz bw emiz wcz
Vibqwv'a cvqnwzu; ivl ia em pwvwz wcz jzidm bzwwxa, tmb ca vmdmz nwzomb bpm
aikzqnqkma wn Iumzqki'a uqtqbizg niuqtqma.

Wcz wnnmvaqdm ioiqvab bmzzwz qvdwtdma uwzm bpiv uqtqbizg ikbqwv. Ctbquibmtg, bpm
wvtg eig bw lmnmib bpm bmzzwzqaba qa bw lmnmib bpmqz lizs dqaqwv wn pibzml ivl
nmiz jg wnnmzqvo bpm pwxmnct itbmzvibqdm wn xwtqbqkit nzmmlwu ivl xmikmnct
kpivom. Aw bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Iumzqki acxxwzba lmuwkzibqk zmnwzu ikzwaa bpm
jzwilmz Uqlltm Miab. Mtmkbqwva izm dqbit, jcb bpmg izm wvtg bpm jmoqvvqvo.
Ziqaqvo cx i lmuwkzikg zmycqzma bpm zctm wn tie, xzwbmkbqwv wn uqvwzqbqma, ivl
abzwvo, ikkwcvbijtm qvabqbcbqwva bpib tiab twvomz bpiv i aqvotm dwbm. Bpm ozmib
xmwxtm wn Mogxb pidm dwbml qv i uctbqxizbg xzmaqlmvbqit mtmkbqwv, ivl vwe bpmqz
owdmzvumvb apwctl wxmv xibpa wn xmikmnct wxxwaqbqwv bpib eqtt zmlckm bpm ixxmit
wn zilqkitqau. Bpm Xitmabqvqiv xmwxtm pidm dwbml qv mtmkbqwva, ivl vwe bpm
tmilmza wn Piuia ucab zmkwovqhm Qazimt, lqaizu, zmrmkb bmzzwzqau, ivl ewzs nwz
tiabqvo xmikm. Aiclq Izijqi pia bismv bpm nqzab abmxa wn zmnwzu. Vwe qb kiv
wnnmz qba xmwxtm i jmbbmz ncbczm jg xzmaaqvo nwzeizl eqbp bpwam mnnwzba.

Lmuwkzikqma qv bpm Uqlltm Miab eqtt vwb twws tqsm wcz wev, jmkicam bpmg eqtt
zmntmkb bpm bzilqbqwva wn bpmqz wev kqbqhmva. Gmb tqjmzbg qa bpm ncbczm wn mdmzg
vibqwv qv bpm Uqlltm Miab, jmkicam tqjmzbg qa bpm zqopb ivl pwxm wn itt
pcuivqbg.

Bpm aium qa bzcm wn Qziv, i vibqwv vwe pmtl pwabiom jg i auitt ktmzqkit mtqbm
bpib qa qawtibqvo ivl zmxzmaaqvo qba xmwxtm. Bpm zmoqum qv bpib kwcvbzg axwvawza
bmzzwzqaba qv bpm Xitmabqvqiv bmzzqbwzqma ivl qv Tmjivwv, ivl bpib ucab kwum bw
iv mvl. Bpm Qzivqiv owdmzvumvb qa lmngqvo bpm ewztl eqbp qba vcktmiz iujqbqwva,
ivl bpm vibqwva wn bpm ewztl ucab vwb xmzuqb bpm Qzivqiv zmoqum bw oiqv vcktmiz
emixwva. Iumzqki eqtt kwvbqvcm bw zittg bpm ewztl bw kwvnzwvb bpmam bpzmiba. Ivl
bwvqopb, tmb um axmis lqzmkbtg bw bpm kqbqhmva wn Qziv: Iumzqki zmaxmkba gwc,
ivl em zmaxmkb gwcz kwcvbzg. Em zmaxmkb gwcz zqopb bw kpwwam gwcz wev ncbczm ivl
eqv gwcz wev nzmmlwu. Ivl wcz Vibqwv pwxma wvm lig bw jm bpm ktwamab wn nzqmvla
eqbp i nzmm ivl lmuwkzibqk Qziv.

Bw wdmzkwum livomza qv wcz ewztl, em ucab itaw bism bpm wnnmvaqdm jg mvkwczioqvo
mkwvwuqk xzwozmaa, nqopbqvo lqamiam, ivl axzmilqvo pwxm qv pwxmtmaa tivla.
Qawtibqwvqau ewctl vwb wvtg bqm wcz pivla qv nqopbqvo mvmuqma; qb ewctl smmx ca
nzwu pmtxqvo wcz nzqmvla qv lmaxmzibm vmml. Em apwe kwuxiaaqwv ijzwil jmkicam
Iumzqkiva jmtqmdm qv bpm Owl-oqdmv lqovqbg ivl ewzbp wn i dqttiomz eqbp
PQD/IQLA, wz iv qvnivb eqbp uitizqi, wz i zmncomm ntmmqvo omvwkqlm, wz i gwcvo
oqzt awtl qvbw atidmzg. Em itaw apwe kwuxiaaqwv ijzwil jmkicam zmoqwva
wdmzepmtuml jg xwdmzbg, kwzzcxbqwv, ivl lmaxiqz izm awczkma wn bmzzwzqau,
wzoivqhml kzqum, pcuiv bzinnqksqvo, ivl bpm lzco bzilm.

Qv zmkmvb gmiza, gwc ivl Q pidm bismv cvxzmkmlmvbml ikbqwv bw nqopb IQLA ivl
uitizqi, mfxivl bpm mlckibqwv wn oqzta, ivl zmeizl lmdmtwxqvo vibqwva bpib izm
uwdqvo nwzeizl eqbp mkwvwuqk ivl xwtqbqkit zmnwzu. Nwz xmwxtm mdmzgepmzm, bpm
Cvqbml Abibma qa i xizbvmz nwz i jmbbmz tqnm. Apwzbkpivoqvo bpmam mnnwzba ewctl
qvkzmiam bpm acnnmzqvo ivl kpiwa wn wcz ewztl, cvlmzkcb wcz twvo-bmzu amkczqbg,
ivl lctt bpm kwvakqmvkm wn wcz kwcvbzg. Q czom Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa bw amzdm bpm
qvbmzmaba wn Iumzqki jg apweqvo bpm kwuxiaaqwv wn Iumzqki.

Wcz kwcvbzg ucab itaw zmuiqv wv bpm wnnmvaqdm ioiqvab bmzzwzqau pmzm ib pwum.
Bpm mvmug pia vwb twab bpm lmaqzm wz kixijqtqbg bw ibbiks ca. Nwzbcvibmtg, bpqa
Vibqwv pia acxmzj xzwnmaaqwvita qv tie mvnwzkmumvb, qvbmttqomvkm, bpm uqtqbizg,
ivl pwumtivl amkczqbg. Bpmam umv ivl ewumv izm lmlqkibqvo bpmqz tqdma bw
xzwbmkbqvo ca itt, ivl bpmg lmamzdm wcz acxxwzb ivl wcz bpivsa. Bpmg itaw
lmamzdm bpm aium bwwta bpmg itzmilg cam bw nqopb lzco bzinnqksqvo ivl wzoivqhml
kzqum, aw Q ias gwc bw zmicbpwzqhm bpm XIBZQWB Ikb.

Qb qa aiql bpib xzqwz bw bpm ibbiksa wn Amxbmujmz 11, wcz owdmzvumvb niqtml bw
kwvvmkb bpm lwba wn bpm kwvaxqzikg. Em vwe svwe bpib bew wn bpm pqriksmza qv bpm
Cvqbml Abibma xtikml bmtmxpwvm kitta bw it Yimli wxmzibqdma wdmzamia. Jcb em lql
vwb svwe ijwcb bpmqz xtiva cvbqt qb eia bww tibm. Aw bw xzmdmvb ivwbpmz ibbiks,
jiaml wv icbpwzqbg oqdmv bw um jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv ivl jg abibcbm, Q pidm
icbpwzqhml i bmzzwzqab aczdmqttivkm xzwoziu bw ioozmaaqdmtg xczacm bpm
qvbmzvibqwvit kwuucvqkibqwva wn acaxmkbml it Yimli wxmzibqdma ivl innqtqibma bw
ivl nzwu Iumzqki. Xzmdqwca Xzmaqlmvba pidm caml bpm aium kwvabqbcbqwvit
icbpwzqbg Q pidm, ivl Nmlmzit kwczba pidm ixxzwdml bpm cam wn bpib icbpwzqbg.
Ixxzwxzqibm Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa pidm jmmv smxb qvnwzuml. Bpqa bmzzwzqab
aczdmqttivkm xzwoziu pia pmtxml xzmdmvb bmzzwzqab ibbiksa. Qb zmuiqva maamvbqit
bw bpm amkczqbg wn Iumzqki. Qn bpmzm izm xmwxtm qvaqlm wcz kwcvbzg epw izm
bitsqvo eqbp it Yimli, em eivb bw svwe ijwcb qb, jmkicam em eqtt vwb aqb jiks
ivl eiqb bw jm pqb ioiqv.

Qv itt bpmam izmia, nzwu bpm lqazcxbqwv wn bmzzwz vmbewzsa, bw dqkbwzg qv Qziy,
bw bpm axzmil wn nzmmlwu ivl pwxm qv bzwcjtml zmoqwva, em vmml bpm acxxwzb wn
wcz nzqmvla ivl ittqma. Bw lzie bpib acxxwzb, em ucab iteiga jm ktmiz qv wcz
xzqvkqxtma ivl eqttqvo bw ikb. Bpm wvtg itbmzvibqdm bw Iumzqkiv tmilmzapqx qa i
lziuibqkittg uwzm livomzwca ivl ivfqwca ewztl. Gmb em itaw kpwwam bw tmil
jmkicam qb qa i xzqdqtmom bw amzdm bpm ditcma bpib oidm ca jqzbp. Iumzqkiv
tmilmza, nzwu Zwwamdmtb bw Bzcuiv bw Smvvmlg bw Zmioiv, zmrmkbml qawtibqwv ivl
zmbzmib jmkicam bpmg svme bpib Iumzqki qa iteiga uwzm amkczm epmv nzmmlwu qa wv
bpm uizkp. Wcz wev omvmzibqwv qa qv i twvo eiz ioiqvab i lmbmzuqvml mvmug, i eiz
bpib eqtt jm nwcopb jg Xzmaqlmvba wn jwbp xizbqma, epw eqtt vmml abmilg
jqxizbqaiv acxxwzb nzwu bpm Kwvozmaa. Ivl bwvqopb Q ias nwz gwcza. Bwombpmz, tmb
ca xzwbmkb wcz kwcvbzg, acxxwzb bpm umv ivl ewumv epw lmnmvl ca, ivl tmil bpqa
ewztl bweizl nzmmlwu.

Pmzm ib pwum, Iumzqki itaw pia i ozmib wxxwzbcvqbg: em eqtt jcqtl bpm xzwaxmzqbg
wn wcz kwcvbzg jg abzmvobpmvqvo wcz mkwvwuqk tmilmzapqx qv bpm ewztl.

Wcz mkwvwug qa pmitbpg ivl dqowzwca ivl ozweqvo niabmz bpiv wbpmz uirwz
qvlcabzqitqhml vibqwva. Qv bpm tiab 2\1/2\ gmiza, Iumzqki pia kzmibml 4.6
uqttqwv vme rwja, uwzm bpiv Rixiv ivl bpm Mczwxmiv Cvqwv kwujqvml. Mdmv qv bpm
nikm wn pqopmz mvmzog xzqkma ivl vibczit lqaiabmza, bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm pidm
bczvml qv iv mkwvwuqk xmznwzuivkm bpib qa bpm mvdg wn bpm ewztl.

Bpm Iumzqkiv mkwvwug qa xzmmuqvmvb, jcb em kivvwb innwzl bw jm kwuxtikmvb. Qv i
lgviuqk ewztl mkwvwug, em izm ammqvo vme kwuxmbqbwza tqsm Kpqvi ivl Qvlqi. Bpqa
kzmibma cvkmzbiqvbg, epqkp uisma qb miaqmz bw nmml xmwxtm'a nmiza. Ivl aw em izm
ammqvo awum wtl bmuxbibqwva zmbczv. Xzwbmkbqwvqaba eivb bw makixm kwuxmbqbqwv,
xzmbmvlqvo bpib em kiv smmx wcz pqop abivlizl wn tqdqvo epqtm eittqvo wnn wcz
mkwvwug. Wbpmza aig bpib bpm owdmzvumvb vmmla bw bism i tizomz zwtm qv lqzmkbqvo
bpm mkwvwug, kmvbzitqhqvo uwzm xwemz qv Eiapqvobwv ivl qvkzmiaqvo bifma. Em pmiz
ktiqua bpib quuqozivba izm awumpwe jil nwz bpm mkwvwug, mdmv bpwcop bpqa mkwvwug
kwctl vwb ncvkbqwv eqbpwcb bpmu. Itt bpmam izm nwzua wn mkwvwuqk zmbzmib, ivl
bpmg tmil qv bpm aium lqzmkbqwv, bweizl i abiovivb ivl amkwvl-zibm mkwvwug.

Bwvqopb Q eqtt amb wcb i jmbbmz xibp, iv iomvli nwz i Vibqwv bpib kwuxmbma eqbp
kwvnqlmvkm, iv iomvli bpib eqtt ziqam abivlizla wn tqdqvo ivl omvmzibm vme rwja.
Iumzqkiva apwctl vwb nmiz wcz mkwvwuqk ncbczm, jmkicam em qvbmvl bw apixm qb.

Smmxqvo Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm jmoqva eqbp smmxqvo wcz mkwvwug ozweqvo, ivl wcz
mkwvwug ozwea epmv Iumzqkiva pidm uwzm wn bpmqz wev uwvmg bw axmvl, aidm, ivl
qvdmab. Qv bpm tiab 5 gmiza, bpm bif zmtqmn gwc xiaaml pia tmnb $880 jqttqwv qv
bpm pivla wn Iumzqkiv ewzsmza, qvdmabwza, auitt jcaqvmaama, ivl niuqtqma; ivl
bpmg pidm caml qb bw pmtx xzwlckm uwzm bpiv 4 gmiza wn cvqvbmzzcxbml mkwvwuqk
ozwebp. Gmb bpm bif zmtqmn qa amb bw mfxqzm qv bpm vmfb nme gmiza. Qn em lw
vwbpqvo, Iumzqkiv niuqtqma eqtt nikm i uiaaqdm bif qvkzmiam bpmg lw vwb mfxmkb
ivl eqtt vwb emtkwum.

Jmkicam Iumzqki vmmla uwzm bpiv i bmuxwzizg mfxivaqwv, em vmml uwzm bpiv
bmuxwzizg bif zmtqmn. Q czom bpm Kwvozmaa bw ikb zmaxwvaqjtg ivl uism bpm bif
kcba xmzuivmvb.

Smmxqvo Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm zmycqzma ca bw jm owwl abmeizla wn bif lwttiza.
Mdmzg gmiz wn ug Xzmaqlmvkg, em pidm zmlckml bpm ozwebp wn vwvamkczqbg
lqakzmbqwvizg axmvlqvo, ivl tiab gmiz gwc xiaaml jqtta bpib kcb bpqa axmvlqvo.
Bpqa gmiz ug jclomb eqtt kcb qb ioiqv ivl zmlckm wz mtquqvibm uwzm bpiv 140
xzwoziua bpib izm xmznwzuqvo xwwztg wz vwb nctnqttqvo maamvbqit xzqwzqbqma. Jg
xiaaqvo bpmam zmnwzua, em eqtt aidm bpm Iumzqkiv bifxigmz ivwbpmz $14 jqttqwv
vmfb gmiz ivl abig wv bziks bw kcb bpm lmnqkqb qv pitn jg 2009. Q iu xtmiaml
bpib Umujmza wn Kwvozmaa izm ewzsqvo wv mizuizs zmnwzu, jmkicam bpm Nmlmzit
jclomb pia bww uivg axmkqit qvbmzmab xzwrmkba. Ivl em kiv bikstm bpqa xzwjtmu
bwombpmz, qn gwc xiaa bpm tqvm-qbmu dmbw.

Em ucab itaw kwvnzwvb bpm tizomz kpittmvom wn uivlibwzg axmvlqvo, wz
mvbqbtmumvba. Bpqa gmiz, bpm nqzab wn ijwcb 78 uqttqwv jijg jwwumza bczv 60,
qvktclqvo bew wn ug lil'a nidwzqbm xmwxtm, um ivl Xzmaqlmvb Ktqvbwv. Bpqa
uqtmabwvm qa uwzm bpiv i xmzawvit kzqaqa; qb qa i vibqwvit kpittmvom. Bpm
zmbqzmumvb wn bpm jijg jwwu omvmzibqwv eqtt xcb cvxzmkmlmvbml abziqva wv bpm
Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb. Jg 2030, axmvlqvo nwz Awkqit Amkczqbg, Umlqkizm, ivl
Umlqkiql itwvm eqtt jm ituwab 60 xmzkmvb wn bpm mvbqzm Nmlmzit jclomb. Ivl bpib
eqtt xzmamvb ncbczm Kwvozmaama eqbp quxwaaqjtm kpwqkma, abioomzqvo bif
qvkzmiama, quumvam lmnqkqba, wz lmmx kcba qv mdmzg kibmowzg wn axmvlqvo.

Kwvozmaa lql vwb ikb tiab gmiz wv ug xzwxwait bw aidm Awkqit Amkczqbg; gmb bpm
zqaqvo kwab wn mvbqbtmumvba qa i xzwjtmu bpib qa vwb owqvo ieig. Ivl eqbp mdmzg
gmiz em niqt bw ikb, bpm aqbcibqwv omba ewzam. Aw bwvqopb, Q ias gwc bw rwqv um
qv kzmibqvo i kwuuqaaqwv bw mfiuqvm bpm nctt quxikb wn jijg jwwu zmbqzmumvba wv
Awkqit Amkczqbg, Umlqkizm, ivl Umlqkiql. Bpqa kwuuqaaqwv apwctl qvktclm Umujmza
wn Kwvozmaa wn jwbp xizbqma, ivl wnnmz jqxizbqaiv awtcbqwva. Em vmml bw xcb
iaqlm xizbqaiv xwtqbqka, ewzs bwombpmz, ivl omb bpqa xzwjtmu awtdml.

Smmxqvo Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm zmycqzma ca bw wxmv uwzm uizsmba nwz itt bpib
Iumzqkiva uism ivl ozwe. Wvm wcb wn mdmzg nqdm nikbwzg rwja qv Iumzqki qa
zmtibml bw otwjit bzilm, ivl em eivb xmwxtm mdmzgepmzm bw jcg Iumzqkiv. Eqbp
wxmv uizsmba ivl i tmdmt xtigqvo nqmtl, vw wvm kiv wcbxzwlckm wz wcbkwuxmbm bpm
Iumzqkiv ewzsmz.

Smmxqvo Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm zmycqzma iv quuqozibqwv agabmu bpib cxpwtla wcz
tiea, zmntmkba wcz ditcma, ivl amzdma bpm qvbmzmaba wn wcz mkwvwug. Wcz Vibqwv
vmmla wzlmztg ivl amkczm jwzlmza. Bw ummb bpqa owit, em ucab pidm abzwvomz
quuqozibqwv mvnwzkmumvb ivl jwzlmz xzwbmkbqwv. Ivl em ucab pidm i zibqwvit,
pcuivm ocmab ewzsmz xzwoziu bpib zmrmkba iuvmabg, ittwea bmuxwzizg rwja nwz
xmwxtm epw amms bpmu tmoittg, ivl zmlckma aucootqvo ivl kzqum ib bpm jwzlmz.

Smmxqvo Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm zmycqzma innwzlijtm pmitbp kizm. Wcz owdmzvumvb pia
i zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw pmtx xzwdqlm pmitbp kizm nwz bpm xwwz ivl bpm mtlmztg, ivl
em izm ummbqvo bpib zmaxwvaqjqtqbg. Nwz itt Iumzqkiva, em ucab kwvnzwvb bpm
zqaqvo kwab wn kizm, abzmvobpmv bpm lwkbwz-xibqmvb zmtibqwvapqx, ivl pmtx xmwxtm
innwzl bpm qvaczivkm kwdmziom bpmg vmml. Em eqtt uism eqlmz cam wn mtmkbzwvqk
zmkwzla ivl wbpmz pmitbp qvnwzuibqwv bmkpvwtwog bw pmtx kwvbzwt kwaba ivl zmlckm
livomzwca umlqkit mzzwza. Em eqtt abzmvobpmv pmitbp aidqvoa ikkwcvba jg uisqvo
aczm qvlqdqlcita ivl auitt jcaqvmaa muxtwgmma kiv jcg qvaczivkm eqbp bpm aium
ildivbioma bpib xmwxtm ewzsqvo nwz jqo jcaqvmaama vwe omb. Em eqtt lw uwzm bw
uism bpqa kwdmziom xwzbijtm, aw ewzsmza kiv aeqbkp rwja eqbpwcb pidqvo bw ewzzg
ijwcb twaqvo bpmqz pmitbp qvaczivkm. Ivl jmkicam tieacqba izm lzqdqvo uivg owwl
lwkbwza wcb wn xzikbqkm, tmidqvo ewumv qv vmiztg 1,500 Iumzqkiv kwcvbqma eqbpwcb
i aqvotm WJ-OGV, Q ias bpm Kwvozmaa bw xiaa umlqkit tqijqtqbg zmnwzu bpqa gmiz.

Smmxqvo Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm zmycqzma innwzlijtm mvmzog. Pmzm em pidm i amzqwca
xzwjtmu: Iumzqki qa illqkbml bw wqt, epqkp qa wnbmv quxwzbml nzwu cvabijtm xizba
wn bpm ewztl.

Bpm jmab eig bw jzmis bpqa illqkbqwv qa bpzwcop bmkpvwtwog. Aqvkm 2001, em pidm
axmvb vmiztg $10 jqttqwv bw lmdmtwx ktmivmz, kpmixmz, ivl uwzm zmtqijtm
itbmzvibqdm mvmzog awczkma; ivl em izm wv bpm bpzmapwtl wn qvkzmlqjtm ildivkma.
Aw bwvqopb, Q ivvwcvkm bpm Ildivkml Mvmzog Qvqbqibqdm, i 22 xmzkmvb qvkzmiam qv
ktmiv mvmzog zmamizkp ib bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Mvmzog, bw xcap nwz jzmisbpzwcopa qv
bew dqbit izmia. Bw kpivom pwe em xwemz wcz pwuma ivl wnnqkma, em eqtt qvdmab
uwzm qv hmzw- muqaaqwv kwit-nqzml xtivba; zmdwtcbqwvizg awtiz ivl eqvl
bmkpvwtwoqma; ivl ktmiv, ainm vcktmiz mvmzog.

Em ucab itaw kpivom pwe em xwemz wcz icbwuwjqtma. Em eqtt qvkzmiam wcz zmamizkp
qv jmbbmz jibbmzqma nwz pgjzql ivl mtmkbzqk kiza ivl qv xwttcbqwv-nzmm kiza bpib
zcv wv pglzwomv. Em eqtt itaw ncvl illqbqwvit zmamizkp qv kcbbqvo-mlom umbpwla
wn xzwlckqvo mbpivwt, vwb rcab nzwu kwzv jcb nzwu ewwl kpqxa, abitsa, wz aeqbkp
oziaa. Wcz owit qa bw uism bpqa vme sqvl wn mbpivwt xzikbqkit ivl kwuxmbqbqdm
eqbpqv 6 gmiza. Jzmisbpzwcopa wv bpqa ivl wbpmz vme bmkpvwtwoqma eqtt pmtx ca
zmikp ivwbpmz ozmib owit: bw zmxtikm uwzm bpiv 75 xmzkmvb wn wcz wqt quxwzba
nzwu bpm Uqlltm Miab jg 2025. Jg ixxtgqvo bpm bitmvb ivl bmkpvwtwog wn Iumzqki,
bpqa kwcvbzg kiv lziuibqkittg quxzwdm wcz mvdqzwvumvb, uwdm jmgwvl i
xmbzwtmcu-jiaml mkwvwug, ivl uism wcz lmxmvlmvkm wv Uqlltm Miabmzv wqt i bpqvo
wn bpm xiab.

Ivl bw smmx Iumzqki kwuxmbqbqdm, wvm kwuuqbumvb qa vmkmaaizg ijwdm itt: em ucab
kwvbqvcm bw tmil bpm ewztl qv pcuiv bitmvb ivl kzmibqdqbg. Wcz ozmibmab
ildivbiom qv bpm ewztl pia iteiga jmmv wcz mlckibml, pizlewzsqvo, iujqbqwca
xmwxtm; ivl em izm owqvo bw smmx bpib mlom. Bwvqopb Q ivvwcvkm bpm Iumzqkiv
Kwuxmbqbqdmvmaa Qvqbqibqdm, bw mvkwcziom qvvwdibqwv bpzwcopwcb wcz mkwvwug ivl
bw oqdm wcz Vibqwv'a kpqtlzmv i nqzu ozwcvlqvo qv uibp ivl akqmvkm.

Nqzab: Q xzwxwam bw lwcjtm bpm Nmlmzit kwuuqbumvb bw bpm uwab kzqbqkit jiaqk
zmamizkp xzwoziua qv bpm xpgaqkit akqmvkma wdmz bpm vmfb 10 gmiza. Bpqa ncvlqvo
eqtt acxxwzb bpm ewzs wn Iumzqki'a uwab kzmibqdm uqvla ia bpmg mfxtwzm xzwuqaqvo
izmia ackp ia vivwbmkpvwtwog, acxmzkwuxcbqvo, ivl itbmzvibqdm mvmzog awczkma.

Amkwvl: Q xzwxwam bw uism xmzuivmvb bpm zmamizkp ivl lmdmtwxumvb bif kzmlqb, bw
mvkwcziom jwtlmz xzqdibm-amkbwz qvdmabumvb qv bmkpvwtwog. Eqbp uwzm zmamizkp qv
jwbp bpm xcjtqk ivl xzqdibm amkbwza, em eqtt quxzwdm wcz ycitqbg wn tqnm ivl
mvaczm bpib Iumzqki eqtt tmil bpm ewztl qv wxxwzbcvqbg ivl qvvwdibqwv nwz
lmkilma bw kwum.

Bpqzl: Em vmml bw mvkwcziom kpqtlzmv bw bism uwzm uibp ivl akqmvkm ivl uism aczm
bpwam kwczama izm zqowzwca mvwcop bw kwuxmbm eqbp wbpmz vibqwva. Em pidm uilm i
owwl abizb qv bpm miztg ozilma eqbp bpm Vw Kpqtl Tmnb Jmpqvl Ikb, epqkp qa
ziqaqvo abivlizla ivl tqnbqvo bmab akwzma ikzwaa wcz kwcvbzg. Bwvqopb, Q xzwxwam
bw bziqv 70,000 pqop akpwwt bmikpmza bw tmil ildivkml xtikmumvb kwczama qv uibp
ivl akqmvkm; jzqvo 30,000 uibp ivl akqmvkm xzwnmaaqwvita bw bmikp qv ktiaazwwua;
ivl oqdm miztg pmtx bw abclmvba epw abzcootm eqbp uibp, aw bpmg pidm i jmbbmz
kpivkm ib owwl pqop-eiom rwja. Qn em mvaczm bpib Iumzqki'a kpqtlzmv ackkmml qv
tqnm, bpmg eqtt mvaczm bpib Iumzqki ackkmmla qv bpm ewztl.

Xzmxizqvo wcz Vibqwv bw kwuxmbm qv bpm ewztl qa i owit bpib itt wn ca kiv apizm.
Q czom gwc bw acxxwzb bpm Iumzqkiv Kwuxmbqbqdmvmaa Qvqbqibqdm, ivl bwombpmz em
eqtt apwe bpm ewztl epib bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm kiv ikpqmdm.

Iumzqki qa i ozmib nwzkm nwz nzmmlwu ivl xzwaxmzqbg. Gmb wcz ozmibvmaa qa vwb
umiaczml qv xwemz wz tcfczqma, jcb jg epw em izm ivl pwe em bzmib wvm ivwbpmz.
Aw em abzqdm bw jm i kwuxiaaqwvibm, lmkmvb, pwxmnct awkqmbg.

Qv zmkmvb gmiza, Iumzqki pia jmkwum i uwzm pwxmnct Vibqwv. Dqwtmvb kzqum zibma
pidm nittmv bw bpmqz twemab tmdmta aqvkm bpm 1970a. Emtnizm kiama pidm lzwxxml
jg uwzm bpiv pitn wdmz bpm xiab lmkilm. Lzco cam iuwvo gwcbp qa lwev 19 xmzkmvb
aqvkm 2001. Bpmzm izm nmemz ijwzbqwva qv Iumzqki bpiv ib ivg xwqvb qv bpm tiab
bpzmm lmkilma, ivl bpm vcujmz wn kpqtlzmv jwzv bw bmmviom uwbpmza pia jmmv
nittqvo nwz i lwhmv gmiza qv i zwe.

Bpmam oiqva izm mdqlmvkm wn i ycqmb bzivanwzuibqwv, i zmdwtcbqwv wn kwvakqmvkm,
qv epqkp i zqaqvo omvmzibqwv qa nqvlqvo bpib i tqnm wn xmzawvit zmaxwvaqjqtqbg
qa i tqnm wn nctnqttumvb. Owdmzvumvb pia xtigml i zwtm. Eqam xwtqkqma ackp ia
emtnizm zmnwzu, lzco mlckibqwv, ivl acxxwzb nwz ijabqvmvkm ivl ilwxbqwv pidm
uilm i lqnnmzmvkm qv bpm kpizikbmz wn wcz kwcvbzg. Ivl mdmzgwvm pmzm bwvqopb,
Lmuwkzib ivl Zmxcjtqkiv, pia i zqopb bw jm xzwcl wn bpqa zmkwzl.

Gmb uivg Iumzqkiva, maxmkqittg xizmvba, abqtt pidm lmmx kwvkmzva ijwcb bpm
lqzmkbqwv wn wcz kctbczm ivl bpm pmitbp wn wcz uwab jiaqk qvabqbcbqwva. Bpmg izm
kwvkmzvml ijwcb cvmbpqkit kwvlckb jg xcjtqk wnnqkqita, ivl lqakwczioml jg
ikbqdqab kwczba bpib bzg bw zmlmnqvm uizzqiom. Ivl bpmg ewzzg ijwcb kpqtlzmv qv
wcz awkqmbg epw vmml lqzmkbqwv ivl twdm, ivl ijwcb nmttwe kqbqhmva abqtt
lqaxtikml jg vibczit lqaiabmz, ivl ijwcb acnnmzqvo kicaml jg bzmibijtm lqamiama.

Ia em twws ib bpmam kpittmvoma, em ucab vmdmz oqdm qv bw bpm jmtqmn bpib Iumzqki
qa qv lmktqvm wz bpib wcz kctbczm qa lwwuml bw cvzidmt. Bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm svwe
jmbbmz bpiv bpib. Em pidm xzwdmv bpm xmaaquqaba ezwvo jmnwzm, ivl em eqtt lw qb
ioiqv.

I pwxmnct awkqmbg lmxmvla wv kwczba bpib lmtqdmz mycit rcabqkm cvlmz bpm tie.
Bpm Acxzmum Kwczb vwe pia bew acxmzj vme umujmza wv qba jmvkp, Kpqmn Rcabqkm
Rwpv Zwjmzba ivl Rcabqkm Aiu Itqbw. Q bpivs bpm Amvibm nwz kwvnqzuqvo jwbp wn
bpmu. Q eqtt kwvbqvcm bw vwuqvibm umv ivl ewumv epw cvlmzabivl bpib rcloma ucab
jm amzdivba wn bpm tie, ivl vwb tmoqatibm nzwu bpm jmvkp. Bwlig uizsa bpm
wnnqkqit zmbqzmumvb wn i dmzg axmkqit Iumzqkiv. Nwz 24 gmiza wn niqbpnct amzdqkm
bw wcz Vibqwv, bpm Cvqbml Abibma qa ozibmnct bw Rcabqkm Aivlzi Lig W'Kwvvwz.

I pwxmnct awkqmbg pia qvabqbcbqwva wn akqmvkm ivl umlqkqvm bpib lw vwb kcb
mbpqkit kwzvmza ivl bpib zmkwovqhm bpm uibkptmaa ditcm wn mdmzg tqnm. Bwvqopb, Q
ias gwc bw xiaa tmoqatibqwv bw xzwpqjqb bpm uwab mozmoqwca ijcama wn umlqkit
zmamizkp: pcuiv ktwvqvo qv itt qba nwzua, kzmibqvo wz quxtivbqvo mujzgwa nwz
mfxmzqumvba, kzmibqvo pcuiv-ivquit pgjzqla, ivl jcgqvo, amttqvo wz xibmvbqvo
pcuiv mujzgwa. Pcuiv tqnm qa i oqnb nzwu wcz Kzmibwz, ivl bpib oqnb apwctl vmdmz
jm lqakizlml, lmditcml, wz xcb cx nwz aitm.

I pwxmnct awkqmbg mfxmkba mtmkbml wnnqkqita bw cxpwtl bpm xcjtqk bzcab.
Pwvwzijtm xmwxtm qv jwbp xizbqma izm ewzsqvo wv zmnwzua bw abzmvobpmv bpm
mbpqkit abivlizla wn Eiapqvobwv, ivl Q acxxwzb gwcz mnnwzba. Mikp wn ca pia uilm
i xtmlom bw jm ewzbpg wn xcjtqk zmaxwvaqjqtqbg, ivl bpib qa i xtmlom em ucab
vmdmz nwzomb, vmdmz lqauqaa, ivl vmdmz jmbzig.

Ia em zmvme bpm xzwuqam wn wcz qvabqbcbqwva, tmb ca itaw apwe bpm kpizikbmz wn
Iumzqki qv wcz kwuxiaaqwv ivl kizm nwz wvm ivwbpmz.

I pwxmnct awkqmbg oqdma axmkqit ibbmvbqwv bw kpqtlzmv epw tiks lqzmkbqwv ivl
twdm. Bpzwcop bpm Pmtxqvo Iumzqki'a Gwcbp Qvqbqibqdm, em izm mvkwczioqvo kizqvo
ilctba bw omb qvdwtdml qv bpm tqnm wn i kpqtl, ivl bpqa owwl ewzs qa jmqvo tml
jg wcz Nqzab Tilg, Ticzi Jcap. Bpqa gmiz em eqtt ill zmawczkma bw mvkwcziom
gwcvo xmwxtm bw abig qv akpwwt, aw uwzm wn Iumzqki'a gwcbp kiv ziqam bpmqz
aqopba ivl ikpqmdm bpmqz lzmiua.

I pwxmnct awkqmbg kwuma bw bpm iql wn nmttwe kqbqhmva qv bquma wn acnnmzqvo ivl
mumzomvkg ivl abiga ib qb cvbqt bpmg izm jiks wv bpmqz nmmb. Aw niz bpm Nmlmzit
Owdmzvumvb pia kwuuqbbml $85 jqttqwv bw bpm xmwxtm wn bpm octn kwiab ivl Vme
Wztmiva. Em izm zmuwdqvo lmjzqa, zmxiqzqvo pqopeiga, ivl jcqtlqvo abzwvomz
tmdmma. Em izm xzwdqlqvo jcaqvmaa twiva ivl pwcaqvo iaaqabivkm. Gmb ia em ummb
bpmam quumlqibm vmmla, em ucab itaw illzmaa lmmxmz kpittmvoma bpib mfqabml
jmnwzm bpm abwzu izzqdml. Qv Vme Wztmiva ivl qv wbpmz xtikma, uivg wn wcz nmttwe
kqbqhmva pidm nmtb mfktclml nzwu bpm xzwuqam wn wcz kwcvbzg. Bpm ivaemz qa vwb
wvtg bmuxwzizg zmtqmn, jcb akpwwta bpib bmikp mdmzg kpqtl ivl rwj asqtta bpib
jzqvo cxeizl uwjqtqbg ivl uwzm wxxwzbcvqbqma bw wev i pwum ivl abizb i jcaqvmaa.
Ia em zmkwdmz nzwu i lqaiabmz, tmb ca itaw ewzs nwz bpm lig epmv itt Iumzqkiva
izm xzwbmkbml jg rcabqkm, mycit qv pwxm, ivl zqkp qv wxxwzbcvqbg.

I pwxmnct awkqmbg ikba jwtltg bw nqopb lqamiama tqsm PQD/IQLA, epqkp kiv jm
xzmdmvbml ivl bzmibml ivl lmnmibml. Uwzm bpiv i uqttqwv Iumzqkiva tqdm eqbp PQD,
ivl pitn wn itt IQLA kiama wkkcz iuwvo Inzqkiv Iumzqkiva. Q ias Kwvozmaa bw
zmnwzu ivl zmicbpwzqhm bpm Zgiv Epqbm Ikb ivl xzwdqlm vme ncvlqvo bw Abibma aw
em mvl bpm eiqbqvo tqaba nwz IQLA umlqkqvma qv Iumzqki. Em eqtt itaw tmil i
vibqwveqlm mnnwzb, ewzsqvo ktwamtg eqbp Inzqkiv Iumzqkiv kpczkpma ivl
niqbp-jiaml ozwcxa, bw lmtqdmz zixql PQD bmaba bw uqttqwva, mvl bpm abqoui wn
IQLA, ivl kwum ktwamz bw bpm lig epmv bpmzm izm vw vme qvnmkbqwva qv Iumzqki.

Nmttwe kqbqhmva, em pidm jmmv kittml bw tmilmzapqx qv i xmzqwl wn kwvamycmvkm.
Em pidm mvbmzml i ozmib qlmwtwoqkit kwvntqkb em lql vwbpqvo bw qvdqbm. Em amm
ozmib kpivoma qv akqmvkm ivl kwuumzkm bpib eqtt qvntcmvkm itt wcz tqdma. Ivl
awumbquma qb kiv ammu bpib pqabwzg qa bczvqvo qv i eqlm izk, bweizl iv cvsvwev
apwzm.

Gmb bpm lmabqvibqwv wn pqabwzg qa lmbmzuqvml jg pcuiv ikbqwv, ivl mdmzg ozmib
uwdmumvb wn pqabwzg kwuma bw i xwqvb wn kpwwaqvo. Tqvkwtv kwctl pidm ikkmxbml
xmikm ib bpm kwab wn lqacvqbg ivl kwvbqvcml atidmzg. Uizbqv Tcbpmz Sqvo kwctl
pidm abwxxml ib Jqzuqvopiu wz ib Amtui ivl ikpqmdml wvtg pitn i dqkbwzg wdmz
amozmoibqwv. Bpm Cvqbml Abibma kwctl pidm ikkmxbml bpm xmzuivmvb lqdqaqwv wn
Mczwxm ivl jmmv kwuxtqkqb qv bpm wxxzmaaqwv wn wbpmza. Bwlig, pidqvo kwum niz qv
wcz wev pqabwzqkit rwczvmg, em ucab lmkqlm: Eqtt em bczv jiks, wz nqvqap emtt?

Jmnwzm pqabwzg qa ezqbbmv lwev qv jwwsa, qb qa ezqbbmv qv kwcziom. Tqsm
Iumzqkiva jmnwzm ca, em eqtt apwe bpib kwcziom, ivl em eqtt nqvqap emtt. Em eqtt
tmil nzmmlwu'a ildivkm. Em eqtt kwuxmbm ivl mfkmt qv bpm otwjit mkwvwug. Em eqtt
zmvme bpm lmnqvqvo uwzit kwuuqbumvba wn bpqa tivl. Ivl aw em uwdm nwzeizl,
wxbquqabqk ijwcb wcz kwcvbzg, niqbpnct bw qba kicam, ivl kwvnqlmvb wn bpm
dqkbwzqma bw kwum.

Uig Owl jtmaa Iumzqki.

[Ixxticam, bpm Umujmza zqaqvo.]