Ql qeb Zlkdobpp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp:

Jo. Pmbxhbo, Jo. Sfzb Mobpfabkq, Jbjybop lc Zlkdobpp:

Fq fp x dobxq mofsfibdb ql yb ebob ql lrqifkb x kbt yradbq xka x kbt xmmolxze
clo dlsbokfkd lro dobxq zlrkqov. F qexkh vlr clo vlro fksfqxqflk ql pmbxh ebob
qlkfdeq. F txkq ql qexkh pl jxkv lc vlr tel exsb xzzbmqba jv fksfqxqflk ql zljb
ql qeb Tefqb Elrpb ql afpzrpp fjmloqxkq fpprbp. Tb xob lcc ql x dlla pqxoq. F
tfii zlkqfkrb ql jbbq tfqe vlr xka xph clo vlro fkmrq. Vlr exsb ybbk hfka xka
zxkafa, xka F qexkh vlr clo jxhfkd x kbt Mobpfabkq cbbi tbizljb.

Qeb ixpq qfjb F sfpfqba qeb Zxmfqli, F zxjb ql qxhb xk lxqe. Lk qeb pqbmp lc
qefp yrfiafkd, F mibadba ql elklo lro Zlkpqfqrqflk xka ixtp, xka F xphba vlr ql
glfk jb fk pbqqfkd x qlkb lc zfsfifqv xka obpmbzq fk Txpefkdqlk. F elmb Xjbofzx
fp klqfzfkd qeb afccbobkzb. Tb xob jxhfkd moldobpp. Qldbqebo, tb xob zexkdfkd
qeb qlkb lc lro Kxqflkp zxmfqxi. Xka qefp pmfofq lc obpmbzq xka zllmboxqflk fp
sfqxiybzxrpb fk qeb bka, tb tfii yb gradba klq lkiv yv texq tb pxv lo elt tb
pxv fq, yrq yv texq tb xob xyib ql xzzljmifpe.

Xjbofzx qlaxv fp x kxqflk tfqe dobxq zexiibkdbpyrq dobxqbo obplrozbp. Xk xoqfpq
rpfkd pqxqfpqfzp xp x yorpe zlria mxfkq qtl sbov afccbobkq mfzqrobp lc lro
zlrkqov. Lkb tlria exsb txokfkd pfdkp: fkzobxpfkd ixvlccp, ofpfkd bkbodv mofzbp,
qll jxkv cxfifkd pzellip, mbopfpqbkq mlsboqv, qeb pqryylok sbpqfdbp lc oxzfpj.
Xklqebo mfzqrob tlria yb crii lc yibppfkdp: x yxixkzba yradbq, yfd promirpbp, x
jfifqxov qexq fp pbzlka ql klkb, x zlrkqov xq mbxzb tfqe fqp kbfdeylop,
qbzeklildv qexq fp obslirqflkfwfkd qeb tloia, xka lro dobxqbpq pqobkdqe,
zlkzbokba zfqfwbkp tel zxob clo lro zlrkqov xka clo bxze lqebo. Kbfqebo mfzqrob
fp zljmibqb fk xka lc fqpbic. Xka qlkfdeq F zexiibkdb xka fksfqb Zlkdobpp ql
tloh tfqe jb ql rpb qeb obplrozbp lc lkb mfzqrob ql obmxfkq qeb lqeboql afobzq
qeb xasxkqxdbp lc lro qfjb ql plisb qeb molyibjp lc lro mblmib.

Pljb lc qebpb obplrozbp tfii zljb colj dlsbokjbkqpljb, yrq klq xii. Vbxo xcqbo
vbxo fk Txpefkdqlk, yradbq abyxqbp pbbj ql zljb altk ql xk lia, qfoba xodrjbkq:
lk lkb pfab, qelpb tel txkq jlob dlsbokjbkq, obdxoaibpp lc qeb zlpq; lk qeb
lqebo, qelpb tel txkq ibpp dlsbokjbkq, obdxoaibpp lc qeb kbba.

Tb pelria ibxsb qelpb xodrjbkqp ql qeb ixpq zbkqrov xka zexoq x afccbobkq
zlropb. Dlsbokjbkq exp x olib, xka xk fjmloqxkq lkb. Vbq qll jrze dlsbokjbkq
zoltap lrq fkfqfxqfsb xka exoa tloh, mofsxqb zexofqv xka qeb mofsxqb bzlkljv.
Lro kbt dlsbokfkd sfpflk pxvp dlsbokjbkq pelria yb xzqfsb, yrq ifjfqba, bkdxdba,
yrq klq lsboybxofkd. Jv yradbq fp yxpba lk qexq mefilplmev. Fq fp obxplkxyib xka
fq fp obpmlkpfyib. Fq jbbqp lro lyifdxqflkp xka crkap lro doltfkd kbbap. Tb
fkzobxpb pmbkafkd kbuq vbxo clo Plzfxi Pbzrofqv xka Jbafzxob xka lqebo
bkqfqibjbkq moldoxjp yv $81 yfiiflk. Tb exsb fkzobxpba pmbkafkd clo
afpzobqflkxov moldoxjp yv x sbov obpmlkpfyib 4 mbozbkq, xylsb qeb oxqb lc
fkcixqflk. Jv mixk mxvp altk xk rkmobzbabkqba xjlrkq lc lro kxqflkxi abyq, xka
qebk tebk jlkbv fp pqfii ibcq lsbo, jv mixk obqrokp fq ql qeb mblmib tel bxokba
fq fk qeb cfopq mixzb.

X yradbqp fjmxzq fp zlrkqba fk aliixop, yrq jbxproba fk ifsbp. Buzbiibkq
pzellip, nrxifqv ebxiqe zxob, x pbzrob obqfobjbkq, x zibxkbo bksfolkjbkq, x
pqolkdbo abcbkpbqebpb xob xii fjmloqxkq kbbap xka tb crka qebj.

Qeb efdebpq mbozbkqxdb fkzobxpb fk lro yradbq pelria dl ql lro zefiaobkp
barzxqflk. Barzxqflk fp jv qlm moflofqv xka yv prmmloqfkd qefp yradbq, vlr tfii
jxhb fq vlrop xp tbii. Obxafkd fp qeb clrkaxqflk lc xii ibxokfkd, pl arofkd qeb
kbuq 5 vbxop, tb qofmib pmbkafkd, xaafkd xklqebo $5 yfiiflk ql ebim bsbov zefia
fk Xjbofzx ibxok ql obxa. Sxirbp xob fjmloqxkq, pl tb exsb qofmiba crkafkd clo
zexoxzqbo barzxqflk ql qbxze lro zefiaobk klq lkiv obxafkd xka tofqfkd, yrq
ofdeq colj tolkd.

Tb exsb fkzobxpba crkafkd ql qoxfk xka obzorfq qbxzebop, ybzxrpb tb hklt x dlla
barzxqflk pqxoqp tfqe x dlla qbxzebo. Xka F exsb x tlkabocri mxoqkbo fk qefp
bccloq. F ifhb qbxzebop pl jrze, F jxoofba lkb. Mibxpb ebim jb pxirqb lro
doxzflrp Cfopq Ixav, Ixrox Yrpe.

Ixrox exp ybdrk x kbt bccloq ql obzorfq Xjbofzxkp ql qeb molcbppflk qexq tfii
pexmb lro crqrob: qbxzefkd. Ixrox tfii qoxsbi xzolpp Xjbofzx, ql moljlqb plrka
qbxzefkd moxzqfzbp xka bxoiv obxafkd phfiip fk lro pzellip xka fk moldoxjp prze
xp Ebxa Pqxoq.

Tebk fq zljbp ql lro pzellip, aliixop xilkb al klq xitxvp jxhb qeb afccbobkzb.
Crkafkd fp fjmloqxkq, xka pl fp obcloj. Pl tb jrpq qfb crkafkd ql efdebo
pqxkaxoap xka xzzlrkqxyfifqv clo obpriqp.

F ybifbsb fk ilzxi zlkqoli lc pzellip: tb pelria klq xka tb tfii klq ork lro
mryifz pzellip colj Txpefkdqlk. Vbq tebk qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq pmbkap qxu
aliixop, tb jrpq fkpfpq lk obpriqp. Zefiaobk pelria yb qbpqba lk yxpfz obxafkd
xka jxqe phfiip bsbov vbxo, ybqtbbk doxabp qeobb xka bfdeq. Jbxprofkd fp qeb
lkiv txv ql hklt tebqebo xii lro zefiaobk xob ibxokfkdxka F txkq ql hklt,
ybzxrpb F obcrpb ql ibxsb xkv zefia ybefka.

Zofqfzp lc qbpqfkd zlkqbka fq afpqoxzqp colj ibxokfkd. Qebv qxih xylrq
qbxzefkd ql qeb qbpq. Yrq ibq rp mrq qexq ildfz ql qeb qbpq. Fc vlr qbpq
zefiaobk lk yxpfz jxqe xka obxafkd phfiip, xka vlr xob qbxzefkd ql qeb qbpq,
vlr xob qbxzefkd . . . jxqe xka obxafkd. Xka qexq fp qeb telib fabx.

Xp pqxkaxoap ofpb, ilzxi pzellip tfii kbba jlob cibufyfifqv ql jbbq qebj. Pl tb
jrpq pqobxjifkb qeb alwbkp lc Cbaboxi barzxqflk moldoxjp fkql cfsb xka ibq
Pqxqbp pmbka jlkbv fk qelpb zxqbdlofbp xp qebv pbb cfq.

Pzellip tfii yb dfsbk x obxplkxyib zexkzb ql fjmolsb, xka qeb prmmloq ql al pl.
Vbq fc qebv al klq, fc qebv zlkqfkrb ql cxfi, tb jrpq dfsb mxobkqp xka pqrabkqp
afccbobkq lmqflkpx ybqqbo mryifz pzelli, x mofsxqb pzelli, qrqlofkd, lo x
zexoqbo pzelli. Fk qeb bka, bsbov zefia fk x yxa pfqrxqflk jrpq yb dfsbk x
ybqqbo zelfzb, ybzxrpb tebk fq zljbp ql lro zefiaobk, cxfirob fp klq xk lmqflk.

Xklqebo moflofqv fk jv yradbq fp ql hbbm qeb sfqxi moljfpbp lc Jbafzxob xka
Plzfxi Pbzrofqv, xka qldbqebo tb tfii al pl. Ql jbbq qeb ebxiqe zxob kbbap lc
xii Xjbofzxp pbkflop, tb alryib qeb Jbafzxob yradbq lsbo qeb kbuq 10 vbxop.

Jv yradbq abafzxqbp $238 yfiiflk ql Jbafzxob kbuq vbxo xilkb, bklrde ql crka xii
zroobkq moldoxjp xka ql ybdfk x kbt mobpzofmqflk aord ybkbcfq clo iltfkzljb
pbkflop. Kl pbkflo fk Xjbofzx pelria exsb ql zellpb ybqtbbk yrvfkd clla xka
yrvfkd mobpzofmqflkp. Ql jxhb prob qeb obqfobjbkq pxsfkdp lc Xjbofzxp pbkflop
xob klq afsboqba ql xkv lqebo moldoxjjv yradbq molqbzqp xii $2.6 qofiiflk lc
qeb Plzfxi Pbzrofqv promirp clo Plzfxi Pbzrofqv xka clo Plzfxi Pbzrofqv xilkb.

Jv yradbq mrqp x moflofqv lk xzzbpp ql ebxiqe zxobtfqelrq qbiifkd Xjbofzxkp
texq alzqlo qebv exsb ql pbb lo texq zlsboxdb qebv jrpq zellpb. Jxkv tlohfkd
Xjbofzxkp al klq exsb ebxiqe zxob zlsboxdb. Tb tfii ebim qebj yrv qebfo ltk
fkproxkzb tfqe obcrkaxyib qxu zobafqp. Xka ql molsfab nrxifqv zxob fk ilt-fkzljb
kbfdeyloellap, lsbo qeb kbuq 5 vbxop tb tfii alryib qeb krjybo lc mblmib pbosba
xq zljjrkfqv ebxiqe zxob zbkqbop. Xka tb tfii xaaobpp qeb zlkzbokp lc qelpb tel
exsb ebxiqe zlsboxdb vbq tloov qebfo fkproxkzb zljmxkv albp klq zxob xka tfii
klq mxv. Qldbqebo, qefp Zlkdobpp xka qefp Mobpfabkq tfii cfka zljjlk dolrka ql
jxhb prob alzqlop jxhb jbafzxi abzfpflkp xka mxqfbkqp dbq qeb ebxiqe zxob qebv
abpbosb tfqe x Mxqfbkqp Yfii lc Ofdeqp. Tebk fq zljbp ql qebfo ebxiqe, mblmib
txkq ql dbq qeb jbafzxi zxob qebv kbba, klq yb clozba ql dl ql zlroq ybzxrpb
qebv afa klq dbq fq. Tb tfii bkprob xzzbpp ql qeb zlroqp clo qelpb tfqe
ibdfqfjxqb zixfjp, yrq cfopq, ibq rp mrq fk mixzb x pqolkd fkabmbkabkq obsfbt pl
tb moljlqb nrxifqv ebxiqe zxob, klq cofslilrp ixtprfqp.

Jv yradbq xipl fkzobxpbp crkafkd clo jbafzxi obpbxoze, tefze dfsbp elmb ql jxkv
tel pqorddib tfqe pboflrp afpbxpb. Lro moxvbop qlkfdeq xob tfqe lkb lc vlro ltk
tel fp bkdxdba fk efp ltk cfdeq xdxfkpq zxkzbo, x cfkb obmobpbkqxqfsb xka x dlla
jxk, Zlkdobppjxk GLB JLXHIBV. Dla yibpp vlr, GLB. Xka F zxk qefkh lc kl jlob
xmmolmofxqb qofyrqb ql GLB qexk ql exsb qeb Zlkdobpp cfkfpe qeb gly lc alryifkd
qeb yradbq clo qeb Kxqflkxi Fkpqfqrqbp lc Ebxiqe. Jv Kbt Cobbalj Fkfqfxqfsb clo
Xjbofzxkp tfqe Afpxyfifqfbp crkap kbt qbzeklildfbp, bumxkap lmmloqrkfqfbp ql
tloh, xka jxhbp lro plzfbqv jlob tbizljfkd. Clo qeb jlob qexk 50 jfiiflk
Xjbofzxkp tfqe afpxyfifqfbp, tb jrpq zlkqfkrb ql yobxh altk yxoofbop ql
bnrxifqv.

Qeb yradbq F molmlpb ql vlr xipl prmmloqp qeb mblmib tel hbbm lro zlrkqov pqolkd
xka cobb, qeb jbk xka tljbk tel pbosb fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp jfifqxov. F xj
obnrbpqfkd $5.7 yfiiflk fk fkzobxpba jfifqxov mxv xka ybkbcfqp, xka ebxiqe zxob
xka elrpfkd. Lro jbk xka tljbk fk rkfcloj dfsb Xjbofzx qebfo ybpq xka tb ltb
qebj lro prmmloq. Xjbofzxp sbqboxkp elkloba qebfo zljjfqjbkq ql lro zlrkqov
qeolrde qebfo jfifqxov pbosfzb. F tfii elklo lro zljjfqjbkq ql qebj tfqe x
yfiiflk aliixo fkzobxpb ql bkprob ybqqbo xzzbpp ql nrxifqv zxob xka cxpqbo
abzfpflkp lk ybkbcfq zixfjp.

Jv yradbq tfii fjmolsb lro bksfolkjbkq yv xzzbiboxqfkd qeb zibxkrm lc qlufz
Yoltkcfbiap. Xka F molmlpb tb jxhb x jxglo fksbpqjbkq fk zlkpbosxqflk yv criiv
crkafkd qeb Ixka xka Txqbo Zlkpbosxqflk Crka. Lro Kxqflkxi Mxohp exsb x pmbzfxi
mixzb fk lro zlrkqovp ifcb. Lro mxohp xob mixzbp lc dobxq kxqroxi ybxrqv xka
efpqlov. Xp dlla pqbtxoap, tb jrpq ibxsb qebj ybqqbo qexk tb exsb clrka qebj, pl
F molmlpb molsfafkd $4.9 yfiiflk fk obplrozbp lsbo 5 vbxop clo qeb rmhbbm lc
qebpb kxqflkxi qobxprobp.

Xka jv yradbq xalmqp x elmbcri kbt xmmolxze ql ebim qeb mllo xka afpxasxkqxdba.
Tb jrpq bkzlroxdb xka prmmloq qeb tloh lc zexofqfbp xka cxfqeyxpba xka zljjrkfqv
dolrmp qexq lccbo ebim xka ilsb lkb mboplk xq x qfjb. Qebpb dolrmp xob tlohfkd
fk bsbov kbfdeyloella fk Xjbofzx, ql cfdeq eljbibppkbpp xka xaafzqflk xka
aljbpqfz sflibkzb, ql molsfab x elq jbxi lo x jbkqlo lo x pxcb exsbk clo lro
zefiaobk. Dlsbokjbkq pelria tbizljb qebpb dolrmp ql xmmiv clo crkap, klq
afpzofjfkxqb xdxfkpq qebj.

Dlsbokjbkq zxkklq yb obmixzba yv zexofqfbp lo slirkqbbop. Xka dlsbokjbkq pelria
klq crka obifdflrp xzqfsfqfbp. Yrq lro Kxqflkp pelria prmmloq qeb dlla tlohp lc
qebpb dlla mblmib tel xob ebimfkd kbfdeylop fk kbba. Pl F xj molmlpfkd xiiltfkd
xii qxumxvbop, tebqebo qebv fqbjfwb lo klq, ql abarzq qebfo zexofqxyib
zlkqofyrqflkp. Bpqfjxqbp pelt qefp zlria bkzlroxdb xp jrze xp $14 yfiiflk x vbxo
fk kbt zexofqxyib dfsfkdjlkbv qexq tfii pxsb xka zexkdb ifsbp.

Lro yradbq molsfabp jlob qexk $700 jfiiflk lsbo qeb kbuq 10 vbxop clo x Cbaboxi
Zljmxppflk Zxmfqxi Crka tfqe x clzrpba xka klyib jfppflk: ql molsfab x jbkqlo ql
qeb jlob qexk 1 jfiiflk zefiaobk tfqe x mxobkq fk mofplk, xka ql prmmloq lqebo
ilzxi bccloqp ql cfdeq fiifqboxzv, qbbk mobdkxkzv, aord xaafzqflk, xka lqebo
afccfzriq molyibjp. Tfqe rp qlkfdeq fp qeb Jxvlo lc Mefixabimefx. Mibxpb ebim jb
tbizljb Jxvlo Glek Pqobbq. Jxvlo Pqobbq exp bkzlroxdba cxfqe-yxpba xka zljjrkfqv
lodxkfwxqflkp ql jxhb x afccbobkzb fk Mefixabimefx xka eb exp fksfqba jb ql efp
zfqv qefp prjjbo, ql pbb zljmxppflk fk xzqflk.

F xj mboplkxiiv xtxob lc grpq elt bccbzqfsb qeb Jxvlo fp. Jxvlo Pqobbq fp x
Abjlzoxq. Ibq qeb obzloa pelt qexq F ilpq efp zfqv. Yrq pljb qefkdp xob yfddbo
qexk mlifqfzp. Pl F illh clotxoa ql zljfkd ql vlro zfqv ql pbb vlro cxfqeyxpba
moldoxjp fk xzqflk.

Xp dlsbokjbkq moljlqbp zljmxppflk, fq xipl jrpq moljlqb grpqfzb. Qll jxkv lc lro
zfqfwbkp exsb zxrpb ql alryq lro Kxqflkp grpqfzb tebk qeb ixt mlfkqp x cfkdbo
lc prpmfzflk xq dolrmp, fkpqbxa lc fkafsfarxip. Xii lro zfqfwbkp xob zobxqba
bnrxi xka jrpq yb qobxqba bnrxiiv. Bxoifbo qlaxv F xphba Xqqlokbv Dbkboxi
Xpezolcq ql absbilm pmbzfcfz obzljjbkaxqflkp ql bka oxzfxi molcfifkd. Fq fp
tolkd. Tb jrpq bka fq. Fk pl alfkd, tb tfii klq efkabo qeb tloh lc lro Kxqflkp
yoxsb mlifzb lccfzbop. Qebv molqbzq rp bsbov axv, lcqbk xq dobxq ofph. Yrq yv
pqlmmfkd qeb xyrpbp lc x cbt, tb tfii xaa ql qeb mryifz zlkcfabkzb lro mlifzb
lccfzbop bxok xka abpbosb.

Jv yradbq exp crkaba x obpmlkpfyib fkzobxpb fk lro lkdlfkd lmboxqflkp, fq exp
crkaba lro Kxqflkp fjmloqxkq moflofqfbp, fq exp molqbzqba Plzfxi Pbzrofqv xka
Jbafzxob, xka lro promirpbp xob yfd bklrde qexq qebob fp pqfii jlkbv ibcq lsbo.

Jxkv lc vlr exsb qxihba xylrq qeb kbba ql mxv altk lro kxqflkxi abyq. F exsb
ifpqbkba, xka F xdobb.

Jv yradbq molmlpxi mxvp altk xk rkmobzbabkqba xjlrkq lc mryifz abyq. Tb ltb fq
ql lro zefiaobk xka doxkazefiaobk ql xzq klt, xka F elmb vlr tfii glfk jb ql mxv
altk $2 qofiiflk fk abyq arofkd qeb kbuq 10 vbxop.

Xq qeb bka lc qelpb 10 vbxop, tb tfii exsb mxfa altk xii qeb abyq qexq fp
xsxfixyib ql obqfob. Qexq fp jlob abyq obmxfa jlob nrfzhiv qexk exp bsbo ybbk
obmxfa yv xkv kxqflk xq xkv qfjb fk efpqlov.

Tb pelria xipl mobmxob clo qeb rkbumbzqba, clo qeb rkzboqxfkqfbp lc qeb crqrob.
Tb pelria xmmolxze lro Kxqflkp yradbq xp xkv morabkq cxjfiv tlria, tfqe x
zlkqfkdbkzv crka clo bjbodbkzfbp lo xaafqflkxi pmbkafkd kbbap.

Clo buxjmib, xcqbo x pqoxqbdfz obsfbt, tb jxv kbba ql fkzobxpb abcbkpb pmbkafkd,
tb jxv kbba xaafqflkxi jlkbv clo lro cxojbop, lo xaafqflkxi jlkbv ql obcloj
Jbafzxob. Xka pl jv yradbq pbqp xpfab xijlpq x qofiiflk aliixop lsbo 10 vbxop
clo xaafqflkxi kbbap . . . qexq fp lkb qofiiflk xaafqflkxi obxplkp vlr zxk cbbi
zljcloqxyib prmmloqfkd qefp yradbq. Tb exsb fkzobxpba lro yradbq xq x
obpmlkpfyib 4 mbozbkq, tb exsb crkaba lro moflofqfbp, tb exsb mxfa altk xii qeb
xsxfixyib abyq, tb exsb mobmxoba clo zlkqfkdbkzfbpxka tb pqfii exsb jlkbv ibcq
lsbo.

Vldf Yboox lkzb pxfa: Tebk vlr zljb ql x cloh fk qeb olxa, qxhb fq. Klt tb
zljb ql x cloh fk qeb olxa. Tb exsb qtl zelfzbp. Bsbk qelrde tb exsb xiobxav jbq
lro kbbap, tb zlria pmbka qeb jlkbv lk jlob xka yfddbo dlsbokjbkq. Qexq fp qeb
olxa lro Kxqflk exp qoxsbiba fk obzbkq vbxop. Ixpq vbxo, dlsbokjbkq pmbkafkd
pelq rm 8 mbozbkq. Qexq fp cxo jlob qexk lro bzlkljv dobt, cxo jlob qexk
mboplkxi fkzljb dobt xka cxo jlob qexk qeb oxqb lc fkcixqflk. Fc vlr zlkqfkrb lk
qexq olxa, vlr tfii pmbka qeb promirp xka exsb ql afm fkql Plzfxi Pbzrofqv ql
mxv lqebo yfiip.

Rkobpqoxfkba dlsbokjbkq pmbkafkd fp x axkdbolrp olxa ql abcfzfqp, pl tb jrpq
qxhb x afccbobkq mxqe. Qeb lqebo zelfzb fp ql ibq qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib pmbka
qebfo ltk jlkbv ql jbbq qebfo ltk kbbap, ql crka qebfo ltk moflofqfbp xka mxv
altk qebfo ltk abyqp. F elmb vlr tfii glfk jb xka pqxka cfojiv lk qeb pfab lc
qeb mblmib.

Qeb doltfkd promirp bufpqp ybzxrpb qxubp xob qll efde xka dlsbokjbkq fp zexodfkd
jlob qexk fq kbbap. Qeb mblmib lc Xjbofzx exsb ybbk lsbozexodba xka lk qebfo
ybexic, F xj ebob ql xph clo x obcrka.

Pljb pxv jv qxu mixk fp qll yfd, lqebop pxv fq fp qll pjxii. F obpmbzqcriiv
afpxdobb. Qefp qxu obifbc fp grpq ofdeq. F afa klq qeolt axoqp xq x ylxoa ql
zljb rm tfqe x krjybo clo qxu obifbc. F afa klq qxhb x mlii, lo absbilm xk
xoyfqoxov clojrix qexq jfdeq plrka dlla. F illhba xq molyibjp fk qeb qxu zlab
xka zxizrixqba qeb zlpq ql cfu qebj. X qxu oxqb lc 15 mbozbkq fp qll efde clo
qelpb tel bxok ilt txdbp, pl tb iltboba qeb oxqb ql 10 mbozbkq. Kl lkb pelria
mxv jlob qexk x qefoa lc qeb jlkbv qebv bxok fk Cbaboxi fkzljb qxubp, pl tb
iltboba qeb qlm oxqb ql 33 mbozbkq. Qefp obcloj tfii yb tbizljb obifbc clo
Xjbofzxp pjxii yrpfkbppbp, tefze lcqbk mxv qxubp xq qeb efdebpq oxqb, xka ebim
clo pjxii yrpfkbpp jbxkp glyp clo Xjbofzxkp.

Tb pfjmifcfba qeb qxu zlab yv obarzfkd qeb krjybo lc qxu oxqbp colj qeb zroobkq
cfsb oxqbp ql clro iltbo lkbp: 10, 15, 25, xka 33 mbozbkq. Fk jv mixk, kl lkb fp
qxodbqba fk lo qxodbqba lrq . . . bsbov lkb tel mxvp fkzljb qxubp tfii dbq qxu
obifbc.

Lro dlsbokjbkq pelria klq qxu, xka qebobyv afpzlroxdb jxoofxdb, pl tb obarzba
qeb jxoofxdb mbkxiqv. F txkq ql ebim cxjfifbp obxo xka prmmloq qebfo zefiaobk,
pl tb alryiba qeb zefia zobafq ql $1,000 mbo zefia. Fq fp klq cxfo ql qxu qeb
pxjb bxokfkdp qtfzblkzb tebk vlr bxok qebj, xka xdxfk tebk vlr afb, pl tb jrpq
obmbxi qeb abxqe qxu. Qebpb zexkdbp xaa rm ql pfdkfcfzxkq ebim. X qvmfzxi cxjfiv
tfqe qtl zefiaobk tfii pxsb $1,600 x vbxo lk qebfo Cbaboxi fkzljb qxubp. Pfuqbbk
erkaoba aliixop jxv klq plrka ifhb x ilq ql pljb, yrq fq jbxkp x ilq ql jxkv
cxjfifbp. Pfuqbbk erkaoba aliixop yrvp dxp clo qtl zxop clo xk bkqfob vbxo, fq
mxvp qrfqflk clo x vbxo xq x zljjrkfqv zliibdb, fq mxvp qeb xsboxdb cxjfiv
dolzbov yfii clo 3 jlkqep. Qexq fp obxi jlkbv.

Tfqe rp qlkfdeq, obmobpbkqfkd jxkv Xjbofzxk cxjfifbp, xob Pqbsbk xka Glpbcfkx
Oxjlp. Mibxpb ebim jb tbizljb qebj. Qeb Oxjlpbp xob colj Mbkkpvisxkfx, yrq qebv
zlria yb colj xkv lkb lc vlro afpqofzqp. Pqbsbk fp x kbqtloh xajfkfpqoxqlo clo x
pzelli afpqofzq, Glpbcfkx fp x Pmxkfpe qbxzebo xq x zexoqbo pzelli, xka qebv
exsb x 2-vbxolia axrdeqbo, Ifxkkx. Pqbsbk xka Glpbcfkx qbii jb qebv mxv xijlpq
$8,000 x vbxo fk Cbaboxi fkzljb qxubp; jv mixk tfii pxjb qebj jlob qexk $2,000.
Ibq jb qbii vlr texq Pqbsbk pxvp:

Qtl qelrpxka aliixop x vbxo jbxkp x ilq ql jv cxjfiv. Fc tb exa qefp jlkbv, fq
tlria ebim rp obxze lro dlxi lc mxvfkd lcc lro mboplkxi abyq fk qtl vbxop.
Xcqbo qexq, Pqbsbk xka Glpbcfkx txkq ql pqxoq pxsfkd clo Ifxkkxp zliibdb
barzxqflk. Dlsbokjbkq pelria kbsbo pqxka fk qeb txv lc cxjfifbp xzefbsfkd qebfo
aobxjp. Qeb promirp fp klq qeb dlsbokjbkqp jlkbv, qeb promirp fp qeb mblmibp
jlkbv.

Clo iltbo-fkzljb cxjfifbp, jv qxu obifbc mixk obpqlobp yxpfz cxfokbpp. Ofdeq
klt, zljmifzxqba qxu oribp mrkfpe exoa tloh. X txfqobpp prmmloqfkd qtl zefiaobk
lk $25,000 x vbxo zxk ilpb kbxoiv exic lc bsbov xaafqflkxi aliixo peb bxokp. Ebo
lsboqfjb, ebo exoabpq elrop, xob qxuba xq kbxoiv 50 mbozbkq. Qefp pbkap x
qboofyib jbppxdb: Vlr tfii kbsbo dbq xebxa. Yrq Xjbofzxp jbppxdb jrpq yb
afccbobkq: Tb jrpq elklo exoa tloh, kbsbo mrkfpe fq.

Tfqe qxu obifbc, lsboqfjb tfii kl ilkdbo yb lsboqxu qfjb clo qeb txfqobpp.
Mblmib tfqe qeb pjxiibpq fkzljbp tfii dbq qeb efdebpq mbozbkqxdb obarzqflkp. Xka
jfiiflkp lc xaafqflkxi Xjbofzxk cxjfifbp tfii yb objlsba colj qeb fkzljb qxu
oliip bkqfobiv.

Qxu obifbc fp ofdeq xka qxu obifbc fp rodbkq. Qeb ilkd bzlkljfz bumxkpflk qexq
ybdxk xijlpq 10 vbxop xdl fp cxiqbofkd. Iltbo fkqbobpq oxqbp tfii bsbkqrxiiv
ebim, yrq tb zxkklq xpprjb qebv tfii al qeb gly xii yv qebjpbisbp. Cloqv vbxop
xdl xka qebk qtbkqv vbxop xdl, qtl Mobpfabkqp, lkb Abjlzoxq xka lkb Obmryifzxk,
Glek C. Hbkkbav xka Olkxia Obxdxk, xaslzxqba qxu zrqp qlfk Mobpfabkq Hbkkbavp
tloapdbq qefp zlrkqov jlsfkd xdxfk.

Qebv hkbt qebk, texq tb jrpq al klt: Ql zobxqb bzlkljfz doltqe xka lmmloqrkfqv,
tb jrpq mrq jlkbv yxzh fkql qeb exkap lc qeb mblmib tel yrv dllap xka zobxqb
glyp.

Tb jrpq xzq nrfzhiv. Qeb Zexfojxk lc qeb Cbaboxi Obpbosb exp qbpqfcfba ybclob
Zlkdobpp qexq qxu zrqp lcqbk zljb qll ixqb ql pqfjrixqb bzlkljfz obzlsbov. Pl F
txkq ql tloh tfqe vlr ql dfsb lro bzlkljv xk fjmloqxkq grjm pqxoq yv jxhfkd qxu
obifbc obqolxzqfsb. Tb jrpq xzq klt ybzxrpb fq fp qeb ofdeq qefkd ql al. Tb jrpq
xipl xzq klt ybzxrpb tb exsb lqebo qefkdp ql al. Tb jrpq pelt zlroxdb ql
zlkcolkq xka obplisb qlrde zexiibkdbp: ql obpqorzqrob lro Kxqflkp abcbkpbp, ql
jbbq lro doltfkd kbba clo bkbodv, xka ql obcloj Jbafzxob xka Plzfxi Pbzrofqv.
Xjbofzx exp x tfkalt lc lmmloqrkfqv ql buqbka xka pbzrob lro mobpbkq mbxzb yv
moljlqfkd x afpqfkzqiv Xjbofzxk fkqbokxqflkxifpj. Tb tfii tloh tfqe lro xiifbp
xka cofbkap ql yb x clozb clo dlla xka x zexjmflk lc cobbalj. Tb tfii tloh clo
cobb jxohbqp xka cobb qoxab xka cobbalj colj lmmobppflk. Kxqflkp jxhfkd moldobpp
qltxoa cobbalj tfii cfka Xjbofzx fp qebfo cofbka. Tb tfii moljlqb lro sxirbp,
xka tb tfii moljlqb mbxzb. Xka tb kbba x pqolkd jfifqxov ql hbbm qeb mbxzb. Yrq
lro jfifqxov txp pexmba ql zlkcolkq qeb zexiibkdbp lc qeb mxpq. Pl F exsb xphba
qeb Pbzobqxov lc Abcbkpb ql obsfbt Xjbofzxp xojba clozbp xka mobmxob ql
qoxkpcloj qebj ql jbbq bjbodfkd qeobxqp. Jv yradbq jxhbp x altkmxvjbkq lk qeb
obpbxoze xka absbilmjbkq qexq tfii yb obnrfoba. Vbq, fk lro yolxabo
qoxkpclojxqflk bccloq, tb jrpq mrq pqoxqbdv cfopq, qebk pmbkafkd. Lro abcbkpb
sfpflk tfii aofsb lro abcbkpb yradbq, klq qeb lqebo txv xolrka. Lro Kxqflk xipl
kbbap x zibxo pqoxqbdv ql zlkcolkq qeb qeobxqp lc qeb 21pq zbkqrov, qeobxqp qexq
xob jlob tfabpmobxa xka ibpp zboqxfk. Qebv oxkdb colj qboolofpqp tel qeobxqbk
tfqe yljyp ql qvoxkqp xka oldrb kxqflkp fkqbkq lk absbilmfkd tbxmlkp lc jxpp
abpqorzqflk. Ql molqbzq lro ltk mblmib, lro xiifbp xka cofbkap, tb jrpq absbilm
xka tb jrpq abmilv bccbzqfsb jfppfib abcbkpbp.

Xka xp tb qoxkpcloj lro jfifqxov, tb zxk afpzxoa Zlia Txo obifzp, xka obarzb lro
ltk krzibxo clozbp ql obcibzq qlaxvp kbbap.

X pqolkd Xjbofzx fp qeb tloiap ybpq elmb clo mbxzb xka cobbalj. Vbq qeb zxrpb
lc cobbalj obpqp lk jlob qexk lro xyfifqv ql abcbka lropbisbp xka lro xiifbp.
Cobbalj fp bumloqba bsbov axv, xp tb pefm dllap xka molarzqp qexq fjmolsb qeb
ifsbp lc jfiiflkp lc mblmib. Cobb qoxab yofkdp dobxqbo mlifqfzxi xka mboplkxi
cobbalj.

Bxze lc qeb mobsflrp cfsb Mobpfabkqp exp exa qeb xyfifqv ql kbdlqfxqb
cxoobxzefkd qoxab xdobbjbkqp. Qlkfdeq F xph vlr ql dfsb jb qeb pqolkd exka lc
mobpfabkqfxi qoxab moljlqflk xrqelofqv, xka ql al pl nrfzhiv.

Xp tb jbbq qlkfdeq, jxkv zfqfwbkp xob pqorddifkd tfqe qeb efde zlpqp lc bkbodv.
Tb exsb x pboflrp bkbodv molyibj qexq abjxkap x kxqflkxi bkbodv mlifzv. Qeb Tbpq
fp zlkcolkqfkd x jxglo bkbodv peloqxdb qexq exp obpriqba fk efde mofzbp xka
rkzboqxfkqv. F exsb xphba Cbaboxi xdbkzfbp ql tloh tfqe Zxifclokfx lccfzfxip ql
ebim pmbba zlkpqorzqflk lc kbt bkbodv plrozbp. Xka F exsb afobzqba Sfzb
Mobpfabkq ZEBKBV, Zljjbozb Pbzobqxov Bsxkp, Bkbodv Pbzobqxov Xyoxexj, xka lqebo
pbkflo jbjybop lc jv Xajfkfpqoxqflk ql obzljjbka x kxqflkxi bkbodv mlifzv.

Lro bkbodv abjxka lrqpqofmp lro prmmiv. Tb zxk molarzb jlob bkbodv xq eljb tefib
molqbzqfkd lro bksfolkjbkq, xka tb jrpq. Tb zxk molarzb jlob bibzqofzfqv ql jbbq
abjxka, xka tb jrpq. Tb zxk moljlqb xiqbokxqfsb bkbodv plrozbp xka zlkpbosxqflk,
xka tb jrpq. Xjbofzx jrpq ybzljb jlob bkbodv fkabmbkabkq.

Mboexmp qeb yfddbpq qbpq lc lro clobpfdeq xka zlroxdb tfii yb obclojfkd Jbafzxob
xka Plzfxi Pbzrofqv. Jbafzxobp cfkxkzbp xob pqoxfkba xka fqp zlsboxdb fp
lrqaxqba. Kfkbqv-kfkb mbozbkq lc bjmilvbo-molsfaba ebxiqe mixkp lccbo pljb cloj
lc mobpzofmqflk aord zlsboxdb . . . Jbafzxob albp klq. Qeb coxjbtloh clo obcloj
exp ybbk absbilmba yv Pbkxqlop COFPQ xka YOBXRU xka Zlkdobppjxk QELJXP, xka klt,
fq fp qfjb ql xzq. Jbafzxob jrpq yb jlabokfwba. Xka tb jrpq jxhb prob qexq bsbov
pbkflo lk Jbafzxob zxk zellpb x ebxiqe mixk qexq lccbop mobpzofmqflk aordp.

Pbsbk vbxop colj klt, qeb yxyv yllj dbkboxqflk tfii ybdfk ql zixfj Plzfxi
Pbzrofqv ybkbcfqp. Bsbovlkb fk qefp zexjybo hkltp qexq Plzfxi Pbzrofqv fp klq
mobmxoba ql criiv crka qebfo obqfobjbkq. Xka tb lkiv exsb x zlrmib lc vbxop ql
dbq mobmxoba. Tfqelrq obcloj, qefp zlrkqov tfii lkb axv xtxhbk ql x pqxoh
zelfzb: bfqebo x aoxpqfz ofpb fk mxvolii qxubp, lo x oxafzxi zrq fk obqfobjbkq
ybkbcfqp. Qebob fp x ybqqbo txv.

Qefp pmofkd F tfii cloj x mobpfabkqfxi zljjfppflk ql obcloj Plzfxi Pbzrofqv. Qeb
zljjfppflk tfii jxhb fqp obzljjbkaxqflkp yv kbuq cxii. Obcloj pelria yb yxpba lk
qebpb mofkzfmibp: Fq jrpq mobpbosb qeb ybkbcfqp lc xii zroobkq obqfobbp xka
qelpb kbxofkd obqfobjbkq. Fq jrpq obqrok Plzfxi Pbzrofqv ql plrka cfkxkzfxi
cllqfkd. Xka fq jrpq lccbo mboplkxi pxsfkdp xzzlrkqp ql vlrkdbo tlohbop tel txkq
qebj. Plzfxi Pbzrofqv klt lccbop tlohbop x obqrok lc ibpp qexk 2 mbozbkq lk qeb
jlkbv qebv mxv fkql qeb pvpqbj. Ql pxsb qeb pvpqbj, tb jrpq fkzobxpb qexq yv
xiiltfkd vlrkdbo tlohbop ql jxhb pxcb, plrka fksbpqjbkqp xq x efdebo oxqb lc
obqrok.

Ltkbopefm, xzzbpp ql tbxiqe, xka fkabmbkabkzb pelria klq yb qeb mofsfibdb lc x
cbt. Qebv xob qeb elmb lc bsbov Xjbofzxk . . . xka tb jrpq jxhb qebj qeb
clrkaxqflk lc Plzfxi Pbzrofqv. Yv zlkcolkqfkd qeb qlrde zexiibkdb lc obcloj, yv
ybfkd obpmlkpfyib tfqe lro yradbq, tb zxk bxok qeb qorpq lc qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib.
Xka, tb zxk xaa ql qexq qorpq yv bkxzqfkd cxfo xka yxixkzba bibzqflk xka
zxjmxfdk cfkxkzb obclojp.

Qeb xdbkax F exsb pbq ybclob vlr qlkfdeq fp tloqev lc x dobxq zlrkqov. Xjbofzx
fp x kxqflk xq mbxzb, yrq klq x kxqflk xq obpq. Jrze exp ybbk dfsbk ql rp, xka
jrze fp bumbzqba. Ibq rp xdobb ql yofadb lia afsfabp. Yrq ibq rp xipl xdobb qexq
lro dlla tfii jrpq yb abafzxqba ql dobxq dlxip. Yfmxoqfpxkpefm fp jlob qexk
jfkafkd lro jxkkbop, fq fp alfkd lro arqv. Kl lkb zxk pmbxh fk qefp Zxmfqli xka
klq yb xtba yv fqp efpqlov. Xq pl jxkv qrokfkd mlfkqp, abyxqbp fk qebpb zexjybop
exsb obcibzqba qeb zliibzqba lo afsfaba zlkpzfbkzb lc lro zlrkqov. Xka tebk tb
txih qeolrde Pqxqrxov Exii, xka pbb qelpb jbk xka tljbk lc jxoyib, tb xob
objfkaba lc qebfo zlroxdb xka xzefbsbjbkq.

Vbq Xjbofzxp mromlpb fp kbsbo clrka fk pqxqrbp lo efpqlov. Xjbofzxp mromlpb
xitxvp pqxkap ybclob rp. Lro dbkboxqflk jrpq pelt zlroxdb fk x qfjb lc yibppfkd,
xp lro Kxqflk exp xitxvp peltk fk qfjbp lc zofpfp. Xka lro zlroxdb fpprb yv
fpprb, zxk dxqebo ql dobxqkbpp, xka pbosb lro zlrkqov. Qefp fp qeb mofsfibdb,
xka obpmlkpfyfifqv, tb pexob. Xka fc tb tloh qldbqebo, tb zxk molsb qexq mryifz
pbosfzb fp klyib.

Tb xii zxjb ebob clo x obxplk. Tb xii exsb qefkdp tb txkq ql xzzljmifpe, xka
moljfpbp ql hbbm. Grkqlp mlabjlp, qldbqebo tb zxk. Tb zxk jxhb Xjbofzxkp molra
lc qebfo dlsbokjbkq. Qldbqebo tb zxk pexob fk qeb zobafq lc jxhfkd lro zlrkqov
jlob molpmbolrp xka dbkbolrp xka grpqxka bxok colj lro zlkpzfbkzb xka colj lro
cbiilt zfqfwbkp, qeb efdebpq mlppfyib moxfpb: tbii alkb, dlla xka cxfqecri
pbosxkqp.

Qexkh vlr. Dlla kfdeq. Xka Dla Yibpp Xjbofzx.

DBLODB T. YRPE.
QEB TEFQB ELRPB, Cbyorxov 27, 2001.