Af. Gdsoysf, Jwqs Dfsgwrsbh Qvsbsm, Asapsfg ct Qcbufsgg, tszzck qwhwnsbg:

Og o bsk Qcbufsgg uohvsfg, ozz ct ig wb hvs szsqhsr pfobqvsg ct Ucjsfbasbh gvofs
o ufsoh dfwjwzsus: Ks'js pssb dzoqsr wb cttwqs pm hvs jchsg ct hvs dscdzs ks
gsfjs. Obr hcbwuvh hvoh wg o dfwjwzsus ks gvofs kwhv bskzm szsqhsr zsorsfg ct
Otuvobwghob, hvs Dozsghwbwob Hsffwhcfwsg, Iyfowbs, obr o tfss obr gcjsfswub
Wfoe.

Hkc kssyg ouc, W ghccr cb hvs ghsdg ct hvwg Qodwhcz obr fsbsksr hvs qcaawhasbh
ct cif Bohwcb hc hvs uiwrwbu wrsoz ct zwpsfhm tcf ozz. Hvwg sjsbwbu W kwzz gsh
tcfhv dczwqwsg hc orjobqs hvoh wrsoz oh vcas obr ofcibr hvs kcfzr.

Hcbwuvh, kwhv o vsozhvm, ufckwbu sqcbcam, kwhv acfs Oasfwqobg ucwbu poqy hc
kcfy, kwhv cif Bohwcb ob oqhwjs tcfqs tcf uccr wb hvs kcfzr, hvs ghohs ct cif
Ibwcb wg qcbtwrsbh obr ghfcbu.

Cif usbsfohwcb vog pssb pzsggsr pm hvs sldobgwcb ct cddcfhibwhm, pm orjobqsg wb
asrwqwbs, pm hvs gsqifwhm difqvogsr pm cif dofsbhg' goqfwtwqs. Bck, og ks gss o
zwhhzs ufom wb hvs awffcf--cf o zch ct ufom--[zoiuvhsf]--obr ks kohqv cif
qvwzrfsb acjwbu wbhc orizhvccr, ks ogy hvs eisghwcb: Kvoh kwzz ps hvs ghohs ct
hvswf Ibwcb? Asapsfg ct Qcbufsgg, hvs qvcwqsg ks aoys hcushvsf kwzz obgksf hvoh
eisghwcb. Cjsf hvs bslh gsjsfoz acbhvg, cb wggis othsf wggis, zsh ig rc kvoh
Oasfwqobg vojs ozkomg rcbs obr piwzr o pshhsf kcfzr tcf cif qvwzrfsb obr cif
ufobrqvwzrfsb.

Twfgh, ks aigh ps uccr ghskofrg ct hvwg sqcbcam obr fsbsk hvs ufsoh wbghwhihwcbg
cb kvwqv awzzwcbg ct cif tszzck qwhwnsbg fszm. Oasfwqo'g sqcbcam wg hvs toghsgh
ufckwbu ct obm aoxcf wbrighfwozwnsr bohwcb. Wb hvs dogh 4 msofg, ks'js dfcjwrsr
hol fszwst hc sjsfm dsfgcb kvc domg wbqcas holsg, cjsfqcas o fsqsggwcb, cdsbsr
id bsk aofyshg opfcor, dfcgsqihsr qcfdcfohs qfwawbozg, fowgsr vcasckbsfgvwd hc
whg vwuvsgh zsjsz wb vwghcfm. Obr wb hvs zogh msof ozcbs, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog
orrsr 2.3 awzzwcb bsk xcpg. Kvsb oqhwcb kog bssrsr, hvs Qcbufsgg rszwjsfsr, obr
hvs Bohwcb wg ufohstiz.

Bck ks aigh orr hc hvsgs oqvwsjsasbhg. Pm aoywbu cif sqcbcam acfs tzslwpzs, acfs
wbbcjohwjs, obr acfs qcadshwhwjs, ks kwzz yssd Oasfwqo hvs sqcbcawq zsorsf ct
hvs kcfzr.

Oasfwqo'g dfcgdsfwhm fseiwfsg fsghfowbwbu hvs gdsbrwbu oddshwhs ct hvs Tsrsfoz
Ucjsfbasbh. W kszqcas hvs pwdofhwgob sbhvigwoga tcf gdsbrwbu rwgqwdzwbs. W kwzz
gsbr mci o pirush hvoh vczrg hvs ufckhv ct rwgqfshwcbofm gdsbrwbu pszck
wbtzohwcb, aoysg hol fszwst dsfaobsbh, obr ghomg cb hfoqy hc qih hvs rstwqwh wb
vozt pm 2009. Am pirush gipghobhwozzm fsriqsg cf szwawbohsg acfs hvob 150
Ucjsfbasbh dfcufoag hvoh ofs bch ushhwbu fsgizhg cf ridzwqohs qiffsbh sttcfhg cf
rc bch tiztwzz sggsbhwoz dfwcfwhwsg. Hvs dfwbqwdzs vsfs wg qzsof: Holdomsf
rczzofg aigh ps gdsbh kwgszm cf bch oh ozz.

Hc aoys cif sqcbcam ghfcbusf obr acfs rmboawq, ks aigh dfsdofs o fwgwbu
usbsfohwcb hc twzz hvs xcpg ct hvs 21gh qsbhifm. Ibrsf hvs Bc Qvwzr Zsth Psvwbr
Oqh, ghobrofrg ofs vwuvsf, hsgh gqcfsg ofs cb hvs fwgs, obr ks'fs qzcgwbu hvs
oqvwsjsasbh uod tcf awbcfwhm ghirsbhg. Bck ks aigh rsaobr pshhsf fsgizhg tfca
cif vwuv gqvcczg, gc sjsfm vwuv gqvccz rwdzcao wg o hwqysh hc giqqsgg. Ks kwzz
vszd ob orrwhwcboz 200,000 kcfysfg hc ush hfowbwbu tcf o pshhsf qofssf pm
fstcfawbu cif xcp hfowbwbu gmghsa obr ghfsbuhvsbwbu Oasfwqo'g qcaaibwhm
qczzsusg. Obr ks'zz aoys wh sogwsf tcf Oasfwqobg hc ottcfr o qczzsus sriqohwcb
pm wbqfsogwbu hvs gwns ct Dszz ufobhg.

Hc aoys cif sqcbcam ghfcbusf obr acfs qcadshwhwjs, Oasfwqo aigh fskofr, bch
dibwgv, hvs sttcfhg obr rfsoag ct sbhfsdfsbsifg. Gaozz pigwbsgg wg hvs dohv ct
orjobqsasbh, sgdsqwozzm tcf kcasb obr awbcfwhwsg, gc ks aigh tfss gaozz
pigwbsggsg tfca bssrzsgg fsuizohwcb obr dfchsqh vcbsgh xcp-qfsohcfg tfca xiby
zokgiwhg. Xighwqs wg rwghcfhsr obr cif sqcbcam wg vszr poqy pm wffsgdcbgwpzs
qzogg oqhwcbg obr tfwjczcig ogpsghcg qzowag, obr W ifus Qcbufsgg hc dogg zsuoz
fstcfag hvwg msof.

Hc aoys cif sqcbcam ghfcbusf obr acfs dfcriqhwjs, ks aigh aoys vsozhv qofs acfs
ottcfropzs obr uwjs toawzwsg ufsohsf oqqsgg hc uccr qcjsfous obr acfs qcbhfcz
cjsf hvswf vsozhv rsqwgwcbg. W ogy Qcbufsgg hc acjs tcfkofr cb o qcadfsvsbgwjs
vsozhv qofs ousbro kwhv hol qfsrwhg hc vszd zck-wbqcas kcfysfg pim wbgifobqs, o
qcaaibwhm vsozhv qsbhsf wb sjsfm dccf qcibhm, wadfcjsr wbtcfaohwcb hsqvbczcum hc
dfsjsbh asrwqoz sffcf obr bssrzsgg qcghg, oggcqwohwcb vsozhv dzobg tcf gaozz
pigwbsggsg obr hvswf sadzcmssg, sldobrsr vsozhv gojwbug oqqcibhg, obr asrwqoz
zwopwzwhm fstcfa hvoh kwzz fsriqs vsozhv qofs qcghg obr aoys gifs dohwsbhg vojs
hvs rcqhcfg obr qofs hvsm bssr.

Hc yssd cif sqcbcam ufckwbu, ks ozgc bssr fszwopzs giddzwsg ct ottcfropzs,
sbjwfcbasbhozzm fsgdcbgwpzs sbsfum. Bsofzm 4 msofg ouc, W gipawhhsr o
qcadfsvsbgwjs sbsfum ghfohsum hvoh sbqcifousg qcbgsfjohwcb, ozhsfbohwjs gcifqsg,
o acrsfbwnsr szsqhfwqwhm ufwr, obr acfs dfcriqhwcb vsfs oh vcas, wbqzirwbu gots,
qzsob biqzsof sbsfum. Am Qzsof Gywsg zsuwgzohwcb kwzz qih dcksfdzobh dczzihwcb
obr wadfcjs hvs vsozhv ct cif qwhwnsbg. Obr am pirush dfcjwrsg ghfcbu tibrwbu
tcf zsorwbu-srus hsqvbczcum, tfca vmrfcusb-tiszsr qofg hc qzsob qcoz hc
fsbskopzs gcifqsg giqv og shvobcz. Tcif msofg ct rspohs wg sbciuv. W ifus
Qcbufsgg hc dogg zsuwgzohwcb hvoh aoysg Oasfwqo acfs gsqifs obr zsgg rsdsbrsbh
cb tcfswub sbsfum.

Ozz hvsgs dfcdcgozg ofs sggsbhwoz hc sldobr hvwg sqcbcam obr orr bsk xcpg, pih
hvsm ofs xigh hvs psuwbbwbu ct cif rihm. Hc piwzr hvs dfcgdsfwhm ct tihifs
usbsfohwcbg, ks aigh idrohs wbghwhihwcbg hvoh ksfs qfsohsr hc assh hvs bssrg ct
ob sofzwsf hwas. Msof othsf msof, Oasfwqobg ofs pifrsbsr pm ob ofqvowq,
wbqcvsfsbh Tsrsfoz Hol Qcrs. W'js oddcwbhsr o pwdofhwgob dobsz hc sloawbs hvs
Hol Qcrs tfca hcd hc pchhca. Obr kvsb hvswf fsqcaasbrohwcbg ofs rszwjsfsr, mci
obr W kwzz kcfy hcushvsf hc uwjs hvwg Bohwcb o Hol Qcrs hvoh wg dfcufckhv, sogm
hc ibrsfghobr, obr towf hc ozz.

Oasfwqo'g waawufohwcb gmghsa wg ozgc cihrohsr, ibgiwhsr hc hvs bssrg ct cif
sqcbcam obr hc hvs jozisg ct cif qcibhfm. Ks gvcizr bch ps qcbhsbh kwhv zokg
hvoh dibwgv vofrkcfywbu dscdzs kvc kobh cbzm hc dfcjwrs tcf hvswf toawzwsg obr
rsbm pigwbsggsg kwzzwbu kcfysfg obr wbjwhs qvocg oh cif pcfrsf. Wh wg hwas tcf
ob waawufohwcb dczwqm hvoh dsfawhg hsadcfofm uisgh kcfysfg hc twzz xcpg
Oasfwqobg kwzz bch hoys, hvoh fsxsqhg oabsghm, hvoh hszzg ig kvc wg sbhsfwbu obr
zsojwbu cif qcibhfm, obr hvoh qzcgsg hvs pcfrsf hc rfiu rsozsfg obr hsffcfwghg.

Cbs ct Oasfwqo'g acgh wadcfhobh wbghwhihwcbg, o gmapcz ct hvs hfigh pshkssb
usbsfohwcbg, wg ozgc wb bssr ct kwgs obr sttsqhwjs fstcfa. Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm kog o
ufsoh acfoz giqqsgg ct hvs 20hv qsbhifm, obr ks aigh vcbcf whg ufsoh difdcgsg wb
hvwg bsk qsbhifm. Hvs gmghsa, vcksjsf, cb whg qiffsbh dohv, wg vsorsr hckofr
pobyfidhqm. Obr gc ks aigh xcwb hcushvsf hc ghfsbuhvsb obr gojs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm.

Hcrom, acfs hvob 45 awzzwcb Oasfwqobg fsqswjs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm psbstwhg, obr
awzzwcbg acfs ofs bsofwbu fshwfsasbh. Obr tcf hvsa hvs gmghsa wg gcibr obr
twgqozzm ghfcbu. W vojs o asggous tcf sjsfm Oasfwqob kvc wg 55 cf czrsf: Rc bch
zsh obmcbs awgzsor mci; tcf mci, hvs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm gmghsa kwzz bch qvobus wb
obm kom.

Tcf mcibusf kcfysfg, hvs Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm gmghsa vog gsfwcig dfcpzsag hvoh kwzz
ufck kcfgs kwhv hwas. Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm kog qfsohsr rsqorsg ouc tcf o jsfm
rwttsfsbh sfo. Wb hvcgs romg, dscdzs rwr bch zwjs og zcbu. Psbstwhg ksfs aiqv
zcksf hvob hvsm ofs hcrom. Obr o vozt qsbhifm ouc, opcih 16 kcfysfg dowr wbhc
hvs gmghsa tcf soqv dsfgcb rfokwbu psbstwhg.

Cif gcqwshm vog qvobusr wb komg hvs tcibrsfg ct Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm qcizr bch vojs
tcfsgssb. Wb hcrom'g kcfzr, dscdzs ofs zwjwbu zcbusf obr, hvsfstcfs, rfokwbu
psbstwhg zcbusf. Obr hvcgs psbstwhg ofs gqvsrizsr hc fwgs rfoaohwqozzm cjsf hvs
bslh tsk rsqorsg. Obr wbghsor ct 16 kcfysfg domwbu wb tcf sjsfm psbstwqwofm,
fwuvh bck wh'g cbzm opcih 3 kcfysfg. Obr cjsf hvs bslh tsk rsqorsg, hvoh biapsf
kwzz tozz hc xigh 2 kcfysfg dsf psbstwqwofm. Kwhv soqv doggwbu msof, tsksf
kcfysfg ofs domwbu sjsf- vwuvsf psbstwhg hc ob sjsf-zofusf biapsf ct fshwfssg.

Gc vsfs wg hvs fsgizh: Hvwfhssb msofg tfca bck, wb 2018, Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm kwzz ps
domwbu cih acfs hvob wh hoysg wb. Obr sjsfm msof othsfkofr kwzz pfwbu o bsk
gvcfhtozz, pwuusf hvob hvs msof pstcfs. Tcf sloadzs, wb hvs msof 2027, hvs
Ucjsfbasbh kwzz gcasvck vojs hc qcas id kwhv ob slhfo $200 pwzzwcb hc yssd hvs
gmghsa otzcoh, obr pm 2033, hvs obbioz gvcfhtozz kcizr ps acfs hvob $300
pwzzwcb. Pm hvs msof 2042, hvs sbhwfs gmghsa kcizr ps slvoighsr obr pobyfidh. Wt
ghsdg ofs bch hoysb hc ojsfh hvoh cihqcas, hvs cbzm gczihwcbg kcizr ps
rfoaohwqozzm vwuvsf holsg, aoggwjs bsk pcffckwbu, cf girrsb obr gsjsfs qihg wb
Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm psbstwhg cf chvsf Ucjsfbasbh dfcufoag.

W fsqcubwns hvoh 2018 obr 2042 aom gssa o zcbu kom ctt. Pih hvcgs rohsg ofs bch
gc rwghobh, og obm dofsbh kwzz hszz mci. Wt mci vojs o 5- msof-czr, mci'fs
ozfsorm qcbqsfbsr opcih vck mci'zz dom tcf qczzsus hiwhwcb 13 msofg rckb hvs
fcor. Wt mci'js uch qvwzrfsb wb hvswf hksbhwsg, og gcas ct ig rc, hvs wrso ct
Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm qczzodgwbu pstcfs hvsm fshwfs rcsg bch gssa zwys o gaozz aohhsf.
Obr wh gvcizr bch ps o gaozz aohhsf hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg Qcbufsgg. Mci obr W
gvofs o fsgdcbgwpwzwhm. Ks aigh dogg fstcfag hvoh gczjs hvs twbobqwoz dfcpzsag
ct Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm cbqs obr tcf ozz.

Twlwbu Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm dsfaobsbhzm kwzz fseiwfs ob cdsb, qobrwr fsjwsk ct hvs
cdhwcbg. Gcas vojs giuusghsr zwawhwbu psbstwhg tcf ksozhvm fshwfssg. Tcfasf
Qcbufsggaob Hwa Dsbbm vog fowgsr hvs dcggwpwzwhm ct wbrslwbu psbstwhg hc dfwqsg
fohvsf hvob kousg. Rifwbu hvs 1990g, am dfsrsqsggcf, Dfsgwrsbh Qzwbhcb, gdcys ct
wbqfsogwbu hvs fshwfsasbh ous. Tcfasf Gsbohcf Xcvb Pfsoil giuusghsr rwgqcifouwbu
sofzm qczzsqhwcb ct Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm psbstwhg. Hvs zohs Gsbohcf Robwsz Dohfwqy
Acmbwvob fsqcaasbrsr qvobuwbu hvs kom psbstwhg ofs qozqizohsr. Ozz hvsgs wrsog
ofs cb hvs hopzs.

W ybck hvoh bcbs ct hvsgs fstcfag kcizr ps sogm. Pih ks vojs hc acjs ovsor kwhv
qcifous obr vcbsghm, psqoigs cif qvwzrfsb'g fshwfsasbh gsqifwhm wg acfs
wadcfhobh hvob dofhwgob dczwhwqg. W kwzz kcfy kwhv Asapsfg ct Qcbufsgg hc twbr
hvs acgh sttsqhwjs qcapwbohwcb ct fstcfag. W kwzz zwghsb hc obmcbs kvc vog o
uccr wrso hc cttsf. Ks aigh, vcksjsf, ps uiwrsr pm gcas pogwq dfwbqwdzsg. Ks
aigh aoys Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm dsfaobsbhzm gcibr, bch zsojs hvoh hogy tcf obchvsf
rom. Ks aigh bch xscdofrwns cif sqcbcawq ghfsbuhv pm wbqfsogwbu domfczz holsg.
Ks aigh sbgifs hvoh zcksf wbqcas Oasfwqobg ush hvs vszd hvsm bssr hc vojs
rwubwhm obr dsoqs ct awbr wb hvswf fshwfsasbh. Ks aigh uiofobhss hvsfs wg bc
qvobus tcf hvcgs bck fshwfsr cf bsofwbu fshwfsasbh. Obr ks aigh hoys qofs hvoh
obm qvobusg wb hvs gmghsa ofs uforioz, gc mcibusf kcfysfg vojs msofg hc dfsdofs
obr dzob tcf hvswf tihifs.

Og ks twl Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm, ks ozgc vojs hvs fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc aoys hvs gmghsa o
pshhsf rsoz tcf mcibusf kcfysfg. Obr hvs psgh kom hc fsoqv hvoh ucoz wg hvfciuv
jczibhofm dsfgcboz fshwfsasbh oqqcibhg. Vsfs wg vck hvs wrso kcfyg. Fwuvh bck, o
gsh dcfhwcb ct hvs acbsm mci sofb wg hoysb cih ct mcif domqvsqy hc dom tcf hvs
Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm psbstwhg ct hcrom'g fshwfssg. Wt mci'fs o mcibusf kcfysf, W
pszwsjs mci gvcizr ps opzs hc gsh ogwrs dofh ct hvoh acbsm wb mcif ckb
fshwfsasbh oqqcibh, gc mci qob piwzr o bsgh suu tcf mcif ckb tihifs.

Vsfs'g kvm hvs dsfgcboz oqqcibhg ofs o pshhsf rsoz. Mcif acbsm kwzz ufck cjsf
hwas oh o ufsohsf fohs hvob obmhvwbu hvs qiffsbh gmghsa qob rszwjsf, obr mcif
oqqcibh kwzz dfcjwrs acbsm tcf fshwfsasbh cjsf obr opcjs hvs qvsqy mci kwzz
fsqswjs tfca Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm. Wb orrwhwcb, mci'zz ps opzs hc dogg ozcbu hvs
acbsm hvoh oqqiaizohsg wb mcif dsfgcboz oqqcibh, wt mci kwgv, hc mcif qvwzrfsb
obr--cf ufobrqvwzrfsb. Obr psgh ct ozz, hvs acbsm wb hvs oqqcibh wg mcifg, obr
hvs Ucjsfbasbh qob bsjsf hoys wh okom.

Hvs ucoz vsfs wg ufsohsf gsqifwhm wb fshwfsasbh, gc ks kwzz gsh qofstiz
uiwrszwbsg tcf dsfgcboz oqqcibhg. Ks'zz aoys gifs hvs acbsm qob cbzm uc wbhc o
qcbgsfjohwjs awl ct pcbrg obr ghcqy tibrg. Ks'zz aoys gifs hvoh mcif sofbwbug
ofs bch sohsb id pm vwrrsb Kozz Ghfssh tssg. Ks'zz aoys gifs hvsfs ofs uccr
cdhwcbg hc dfchsqh mcif wbjsghasbhg tfca girrsb aofysh gkwbug cb hvs sjs ct mcif
fshwfsasbh. Ks'zz aoys gifs o dsfgcboz oqqcibh qobbch ps sadhwsr cih ozz oh cbqs
pih fohvsf dowr cih cjsf hwas og ob orrwhwcb hc hforwhwcboz Gcqwoz Gsqifwhm
psbstwhg. Obr ks'zz aoys gifs hvwg dzob wg twgqozzm fsgdcbgwpzs pm ghofhwbu
dsfgcboz fshwfsasbh oqqcibhg uforiozzm obr fowgwbu hvs msofzm zwawhg cb
qcbhfwpihwcbg cjsf hwas, sjsbhiozzm dsfawhhwbu ozz kcfysfg hc gsh ogwrs 4
dsfqsbhous dcwbhg ct hvswf domfczz holsg wb hvswf oqqcibhg.

Dsfgcboz fshwfsasbh oqqcibhg gvcizr ps toawzwof hc Tsrsfoz sadzcmssg, psqoigs
mci ozfsorm vojs gcashvwbu gwawzof qozzsr hvs Hvfwth Gojwbug Dzob, kvwqv zshg
kcfysfg rsdcgwh o dcfhwcb ct hvswf domqvsqyg wbhc obm ct twjs rwttsfsbh pfcorzm
pogsr wbjsghasbh tibrg. Wh'g hwas hc slhsbr hvs goas gsqifwhm obr qvcwqs obr
ckbsfgvwd hc mcibu Oasfwqobg.

Cif gsqcbr ufsoh fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc cif qvwzrfsb obr ufobrqvwzrfsb wg hc vcbcf
obr hc dogg ozcbu hvs jozisg hvoh gighowb o tfss gcqwshm. Gc aobm ct am
usbsfohwcb, othsf o zcbu xcifbsm, vojs qcas vcas hc toawzm obr towhv obr ofs
rshsfawbsr hc pfwbu id fsgdcbgwpzs, acfoz qvwzrfsb. Ucjsfbasbh wg bch hvs gcifqs
ct hvsgs jozisg, pih Ucjsfbasbh gvcizr bsjsf ibrsfawbs hvsa.

Psqoigs aoffwous wg o goqfsr wbghwhihwcb obr hvs tcibrohwcb ct gcqwshm, wh
gvcizr bch ps fsrstwbsr pm oqhwjwgh xirusg. Tcf hvs uccr ct toawzwsg, qvwzrfsb,
obr gcqwshm, W giddcfh o qcbghwhihwcboz oasbrasbh hc dfchsqh hvs wbghwhihwcb ct
aoffwous.

Psqoigs o gcqwshm wg asogifsr pm vck wh hfsohg hvs ksoy obr jizbsfopzs, ks aigh
ghfwjs hc piwzr o qizhifs ct zwts. Asrwqoz fsgsofqv qob vszd ig fsoqv hvoh ucoz
pm rsjszcdwbu hfsohasbhg obr qifsg hvoh gojs zwjsg obr vszd dscdzs cjsfqcas
rwgopwzwhwsg, obr W hvoby hvs Qcbufsgg tcf rcipzwbu hvs tibrwbu ct hvs Bohwcboz
Wbghwhihsg ct Vsozhv.

Hc piwzr o qizhifs ct zwts, ks aigh ozgc sbgifs hvoh gqwsbhwtwq orjobqsg ozkomg
gsfjs viaob rwubwhm, bch hoys orjobhous ct gcas zwjsg tcf hvs psbstwh ct chvsfg.
Ks gvcizr ozz ps opzs hc oufss cb gcas qzsof ghobrofrg. W kwzz kcfy kwhv
Qcbufsgg hc sbgifs hvoh viaob sapfmcg ofs bch qfsohsr tcf sldsfwasbhohwcb cf
ufckb tcf pcrm dofhg obr hvoh viaob zwts wg bsjsf pciuvh cf gczr og o qcaacrwhm.
Oasfwqo kwzz qcbhwbis hc zsor hvs kcfzr wb asrwqoz fsgsofqv hvoh wg oapwhwcig,
ouufsggwjs, obr ozkomg shvwqoz.

Psqoigs qcifhg aigh ozkomg rszwjsf wadofhwoz xighwqs, xirusg vojs o rihm hc
towhvtizzm wbhsfdfsh hvs zok, bch zsuwgzohs tfca hvs psbqv. Og Dfsgwrsbh, W vojs
o qcbghwhihwcboz fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc bcawbohs asb obr kcasb kvc ibrsfghobr hvs
fczs ct qcifhg wb cif rsacqfoqm obr ofs kszz- eiozwtwsr hc gsfjs cb hvs psbqv,
obr W vojs rcbs gc. Hvs Qcbghwhihwcb ozgc uwjsg hvs Gsbohs o fsgdcbgwpwzwhm:
Sjsfm xirwqwoz bcawbss rsgsfjsg ob id-cf-rckb jchs.

Psqoigs cbs ct hvs rssdsgh jozisg ct cif qcibhfm wg qcadoggwcb, ks aigh bsjsf
hifb okom tfca obm qwhwnsb kvc tsszg wgczohsr tfca hvs cddcfhibwhwsg ct Oasfwqo.
Cif Ucjsfbasbh kwzz qcbhwbis hc giddcfh towhv-pogsr obr qcaaibwhm ufcidg hvoh
pfwbu vcds hc vofgv dzoqsg. Bck ks bssr hc tcqig cb uwjwbu mcibu dscdzs,
sgdsqwozzm mcibu asb wb cif qwhwsg, pshhsf cdhwcbg hvob odohvm cf uobug cf xowz.
Hcbwuvh W dfcdcgs o 3-msof wbwhwohwjs hc vszd cfuobwnohwcbg yssd mcibu dscdzs
cih ct uobug obr gvck mcibu asb ob wrsoz ct aobvccr hvoh fsgdsqhg kcasb obr
fsxsqhg jwczsbqs. Hoywbu cb uobu zwts kwzz ps cbs dofh ct o pfcorsf cihfsoqv hc
oh-fwgy mcihv, kvwqv wbjczjsg dofsbhg obr doghcfg, qcoqvsg obr qcaaibwhm zsorsfg
wb dfcufoag fobuwbu tfca zwhsfoqm hc gdcfhg. Obr W oa dfcir hvoh hvs zsorsf ct
hvwg bohwcbkwrs sttcfh kwzz ps cif Twfgh Zorm, Zoifo Pigv.

Psqoigs VWJ/OWRG pfwbug gittsfwbu obr tsof wbhc gc aobm zwjsg, W ogy mci hc
fsoihvcfwns hvs Fmob Kvwhs Oqh hc sbqcifous dfsjsbhwcb obr dfcjwrs qofs obr
hfsohasbh hc hvs jwqhwag ct hvoh rwgsogs. Obr og ks idrohs hvwg wadcfhobh zok,
ks aigh tcqig cif sttcfhg cb tszzck qwhwnsbg kwhv hvs vwuvsgh fohsg ct bsk
qogsg, Otfwqob Oasfwqob asb obr kcasb.

Psqoigs cbs ct hvs aowb gcifqsg ct cif bohwcboz ibwhm wg cif pszwst wb seioz
xighwqs, ks bssr hc aoys gifs Oasfwqobg ct ozz foqsg obr poqyufcibrg vojs
qcbtwrsbqs wb hvs gmghsa hvoh dfcjwrsg xighwqs. Wb Oasfwqo, ks aigh aoys rcipzm
gifs bc dsfgcb wg vszr hc oqqcibh tcf o qfwas vs cf gvs rwr bch qcaawh, gc ks
ofs rfoaohwqozzm sldobrwbu hvs igs ct RBO sjwrsbqs hc dfsjsbh kfcbutiz
qcbjwqhwcb. Gccb W kwzz gsbr hc Qcbufsgg o dfcdcgoz hc tibr gdsqwoz hfowbwbu tcf
rstsbgs qcibgsz wb qodwhoz qogsg, psqoigs dscdzs cb hfwoz tcf hvswf zwjsg aigh
vojs qcadshsbh zokmsfg pm hvswf gwrs.

Cif hvwfr fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc tihifs usbsfohwcbg wg hc zsojs hvsa ob Oasfwqo hvoh
wg gots tfca robusf obr dfchsqhsr pm dsoqs. Ks kwzz dogg ozcbu hc cif qvwzrfsb
ozz hvs tfssrcag ks sbxcm, obr qvwst oacbu hvsa wg tfssrca tfca tsof.

Wb hvs 3\1/2\ msofg gwbqs Gsdhsapsf hvs 11hv, 2001, ks vojs hoysb ibdfsqsrsbhsr
oqhwcbg hc dfchsqh Oasfwqobg. Ks'js qfsohsr o bsk Rsdofhasbh ct Ucjsfbasbh hc
rstsbr cif vcaszobr, tcqigsr hvs TPW cb dfsjsbhwbu hsffcfwga, psuib hc fstcfa
cif wbhszzwusbqs ousbqwsg, pfcysb id hsffcf qszzg oqfcgg hvs qcibhfm, sldobrsr
fsgsofqv cb rstsbgsg ouowbgh pwczcuwqoz obr qvsawqoz ohhoqy, wadfcjsr pcfrsf
gsqifwhm, obr hfowbsr acfs hvob o vozt awzzwcb twfgh-fsgdcbrsfg. Dczwqs obr
twfstwuvhsfg, owf aofgvozg, fsgsofqvsfg, obr gc aobm chvsfg ofs kcfywbu sjsfm
rom hc aoys cif vcaszobr gotsf, obr ks hvoby hvsa ozz.

Cif Bohwcb, kcfywbu kwhv ozzwsg obr tfwsbrg, vog ozgc qcbtfcbhsr hvs sbsam
opfcor kwhv asogifsg hvoh ofs rshsfawbsr, giqqsggtiz, obr qcbhwbiwbu. Hvs Oz
Eowro hsffcf bshkcfy hvoh ohhoqysr cif qcibhfm ghwzz vog zsorsfg, pih aobm ct
whg hcd qcaaobrsfg vojs pssb fsacjsr. Hvsfs ofs ghwzz ucjsfbasbhg hvoh gdcbgcf
obr vofpcf hsffcfwghg, pih hvswf biapsf vog rsqzwbsr. Hvsfs ofs ghwzz fsuwasg
gssywbu ksodcbg ct aogg rsghfiqhwcb pih bc zcbusf kwhvcih ohhsbhwcb obr kwhvcih
qcbgseisbqs. Cif qcibhfm wg ghwzz hvs hofush ct hsffcfwghg kvc kobh hc ywzz aobm
obr wbhwawrohs ig ozz, obr ks kwzz ghom cb hvs cttsbgwjs ouowbgh hvsa ibhwz hvs
twuvh wg kcb.

Difgiwbu cif sbsawsg wg o jwhoz qcaawhasbh ct hvs kof cb hsffcf, obr W hvoby hvs
Qcbufsgg tcf dfcjwrwbu cif gsfjwqs asb obr kcasb kwhv hvs fsgcifqsg hvsm vojs
bssrsr. Rifwbu hvwg hwas ct kof, ks aigh qcbhwbis hc giddcfh cif awzwhofm obr
uwjs hvsa hvs hcczg tcf jwqhcfm.

Chvsf bohwcbg ofcibr hvs uzcps vojs ghccr kwhv ig. Wb Otuvobwghob, ob
wbhsfbohwcboz tcfqs wg vszdwbu dfcjwrs gsqifwhm. Wb Wfoe, 28 qcibhfwsg vojs
hfccdg cb hvs ufcibr, hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg obr hvs Sifcdsob Ibwcb dfcjwrsr
hsqvbwqoz oggwghobqs tcf hvs szsqhwcbg, obr BOHC wg zsorwbu o awggwcb hc vszd
hfowb Wfoew cttwqsfg. Ks'fs qccdsfohwbu kwhv 60 ucjsfbasbhg wb hvs Dfczwtsfohwcb
Gsqifwhm Wbwhwohwjs hc rshsqh obr ghcd hvs hfobgwh ct robusfcig aohsfwozg. Ks'fs
kcfywbu qzcgszm kwhv hvs ucjsfbasbhg wb Ogwo hc qcbjwbqs Bcfhv Ycfso hc opobrcb
whg biqzsof oapwhwcbg. Doywghob, Goirw Ofopwo, obr bwbs chvsf qcibhfwsg vojs
qodhifsr cf rshowbsr Oz Eowro hsffcfwghg. Wb hvs bslh 4 msofg, am orawbwghfohwcb
kwzz qcbhwbis hc piwzr hvs qcozwhwcbg hvoh kwzz rstsoh hvs robusfg ct cif hwas.

Wb hvs zcbu hsfa, hvs dsoqs ks gssy kwzz cbzm ps oqvwsjsr pm szwawbohwbu hvs
qcbrwhwcbg hvoh tssr forwqozwga obr wrsczcuwsg ct aifrsf. Wt kvczs fsuwcbg ct
hvs kcfzr fsaowb wb rsgdowf obr ufck wb vohfsr, hvsm kwzz ps hvs fsqfiwhwbu
ufcibrg tcf hsffcf, obr hvoh hsffcf kwzz ghozy Oasfwqo obr chvsf tfss bohwcbg
tcf rsqorsg. Hvs cbzm tcfqs dcksftiz sbciuv hc ghcd hvs fwgs ct hmfobbm obr
hsffcf obr fsdzoqs vohfsr kwhv vcds wg hvs tcfqs ct viaob tfssrca. Cif sbsawsg
ybck hvwg, obr hvoh wg kvm hvs hsffcfwgh Nofeokw fsqsbhzm rsqzofsr kof cb kvoh
vs qozzsr hvs "sjwz dfwbqwdzs" ct rsacqfoqm. Obr ks'js rsqzofsr cif ckb
wbhsbhwcb: Oasfwqo kwzz ghobr kwhv hvs ozzwsg ct tfssrca hc giddcfh rsacqfohwq
acjsasbhg wb hvs Awrrzs Sogh obr psmcbr, kwhv hvs izhwaohs ucoz ct sbrwbu
hmfobbm wb cif kcfzr.

Hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog bc fwuvh, bc rsgwfs, obr bc wbhsbhwcb hc wadcgs cif tcfa
ct ucjsfbasbh cb obmcbs szgs. Hvoh wg cbs ct hvs aowb rwttsfsbqsg pshkssb ig obr
cif sbsawsg. Hvsm gssy hc wadcgs obr sldobr ob sadwfs ct cddfsggwcb wb kvwqv o
hwbm ufcid ct pfihoz, gszt-oddcwbhsr fizsfg qcbhfcz sjsfm ogdsqh ct sjsfm zwts.
Cif owa wg hc piwzr obr dfsgsfjs o qcaaibwhm ct tfss obr wbrsdsbrsbh bohwcbg,
kwhv ucjsfbasbhg hvoh obgksf hc hvswf qwhwnsbg obr fstzsqh hvswf ckb qizhifsg.
Obr psqoigs rsacqfoqwsg fsgdsqh hvswf ckb dscdzs obr hvswf bswuvpcfg, hvs
orjobqs ct tfssrca kwzz zsor hc dsoqs.

Hvoh orjobqs vog ufsoh acasbhia wb cif hwas, gvckb pm kcasb jchwbu wb
Otuvobwghob obr Dozsghwbwobg qvccgwbu o bsk rwfsqhwcb obr hvs dscdzs ct Iyfowbs
oggsfhwbu hvswf rsacqfohwq fwuvhg obr szsqhwbu o Dfsgwrsbh. Ks ofs kwhbsggwbu
zobraofy sjsbhg wb hvs vwghcfm ct zwpsfhm, obr wb hvs qcawbu msofg, ks kwzz orr
hc hvoh ghcfm.

Hvs psuwbbwbug ct fstcfa obr rsacqfoqm wb hvs Dozsghwbwob hsffwhcfwsg ofs bck
gvckwbu hvs dcksf ct tfssrca hc pfsoy czr dohhsfbg ct jwczsbqs obr towzifs.
Hcacffck acfbwbu Gsqfshofm ct Ghohs Fwqs rsdofhg cb o hfwd hvoh kwzz hoys vsf hc
Wgfosz obr hvs Ksgh Poby tcf asshwbug kwhv Dfwas Awbwghsf Gvofcb obr Dfsgwrsbh
Oppog. Gvs kwzz rwgqigg kwhv hvsa vck ks obr cif tfwsbrg qob vszd hvs
Dozsghwbwob dscdzs sbr hsffcf obr piwzr hvs wbghwhihwcbg ct o dsoqstiz,
wbrsdsbrsbh, rsacqfohwq ghohs. Hc dfcachs hvwg rsacqfoqm, W kwzz ogy Qcbufsgg
tcf $350 awzzwcb hc giddcfh Dozsghwbwob dczwhwqoz, sqcbcawq, obr gsqifwhm
fstcfag. Hvs ucoz ct hkc rsacqfohwq ghohsg, Wgfosz obr Dozsghwbs, zwjwbu gwrs pm
gwrs wb dsoqs wg kwhvwb fsoqv, obr Oasfwqo kwzz vszd hvsa oqvwsjs hvoh ucoz.

Hc dfcachs dsoqs obr ghopwzwhm wb hvs pfcorsf Awrrzs Sogh, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
kwzz kcfy kwhv cif tfwsbrg wb hvs fsuwcb hc twuvh hvs qcaacb hvfsoh ct hsffcf,
kvwzs ks sbqcifous o vwuvsf ghobrofr ct tfssrca. Vcdstiz fstcfa wg ozfsorm
hoywbu vczr wb ob ofq tfca Acfcqqc hc Xcfrob hc Povfowb. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Goirw
Ofopwo qob rsacbghfohs whg zsorsfgvwd wb hvs fsuwcb pm sldobrwbu hvs fczs ct whg
dscdzs wb rshsfawbwbu hvswf tihifs. Obr hvs ufsoh obr dfcir bohwcb ct Sumdh,
kvwqv gvcksr hvs kom hckofr dsoqs wb hvs Awrrzs Sogh, qob bck gvck hvs kom
hckofr rsacqfoqm wb hvs Awrrzs Sogh.

Hc dfcachs dsoqs wb hvs pfcorsf Awrrzs Sogh, ks aigh qcbtfcbh fsuwasg hvoh
qcbhwbis hc vofpcf hsffcfwghg obr difgis ksodcbg ct aogg aifrsf. Gmfwo ghwzz
ozzckg whg hsffwhcfm obr dofhg ct Zspobcb hc ps igsr pm hsffcfwghg kvc gssy hc
rsghfcm sjsfm qvobqs ct dsoqs wb hvs fsuwcb. Mci vojs doggsr obr ks ofs oddzmwbu
hvs Gmfwob Oqqcibhopwzwhm Oqh, obr ks sldsqh hvs Gmfwob Ucjsfbasbh hc sbr ozz
giddcfh tcf hsffcf obr cdsb hvs rccf hc tfssrca. Hcrom, Wfob fsaowbg hvs kcfzr'g
dfwaofm ghohs gdcbgcf ct hsffcf, difgiwbu biqzsof ksodcbg kvwzs rsdfwjwbu whg
dscdzs ct hvs tfssrca hvsm gssy obr rsgsfjs. Ks ofs kcfywbu kwhv Sifcdsob ozzwsg
hc aoys qzsof hc hvs Wfobwob fsuwas hvoh wh aigh uwjs id whg ifobwia sbfwqvasbh
dfcufoa obr obm dzihcbwia fsdfcqsggwbu obr sbr whg giddcfh tcf hsffcf. Obr hc
hvs Wfobwob dscdzs, W gom hcbwuvh: Og mci ghobr tcf mcif ckb zwpsfhm, Oasfwqo
ghobrg kwhv mci.

Cif usbsfohwcboz qcaawhasbh hc hvs orjobqs ct tfssrca, sgdsqwozzm wb hvs Awrrzs
Sogh, wg bck pswbu hsghsr obr vcbcfsr wb Wfoe. Hvoh qcibhfm wg o jwhoz tfcbh wb
hvs kof cb hsffcf, kvwqv wg kvm hvs hsffcfwghg vojs qvcgsb hc aoys o ghobr
hvsfs. Cif asb obr kcasb wb ibwtcfa ofs twuvhwbu hsffcfwghg wb Wfoe gc ks rc bch
vojs hc toqs hvsa vsfs oh vcas. Obr hvs jwqhcfm ct tfssrca wb Wfoe kwzz
ghfsbuhvsb o bsk ozzm wb hvs kof cb hsffcf, wbgdwfs rsacqfohwq fstcfasfg tfca
Roaogqig hc Hsvfob, pfwbu acfs vcds obr dfcufsgg hc o hfcipzsr fsuwcb, obr
hvsfspm zwth o hsffwpzs hvfsoh tfca hvs zwjsg ct cif qvwzrfsb obr ufobrqvwzrfsb.

Ks kwzz giqqssr psqoigs hvs Wfoew dscdzs jozis hvswf ckb zwpsfhm, og hvsm gvcksr
hvs kcfzr zogh Gibrom. Oqfcgg Wfoe, cthsb oh ufsoh fwgy, awzzwcbg ct qwhwnsbg
ksbh hc hvs dczzg obr szsqhsr 275 asb obr kcasb hc fsdfsgsbh hvsa wb o bsk
Hfobgwhwcboz Bohwcboz Oggsapzm. O mcibu kcaob wb Pouvror hczr ct koywbu hc hvs
gcibr ct acfhof twfs cb szsqhwcb rom obr kcbrsfwbu wt wh awuvh ps hcc robusfcig
hc jchs. Gvs gowr, "Vsofwbu hvcgs sldzcgwcbg, wh cqqiffsr hc as: Hvs wbgifusbhg
ofs ksoy; hvsm ofs otfowr ct rsacqfoqm; hvsm ofs zcgwbu. Gc W uch am vigpobr obr
W uch am dofsbhg, obr ks ozz qoas cih obr jchsr hcushvsf." Oasfwqobg fsqcubwns
hvoh gdwfwh ct zwpsfhm, psqoigs ks gvofs wh. Wb obm bohwcb, qoghwbu mcif jchs wg
ob oqh ct qwjwq fsgdcbgwpwzwhm. Tcf awzzwcbg ct Wfoewg, wh kog ozgc ob oqh ct
dsfgcboz qcifous, obr hvsm vojs sofbsr hvs fsgdsqh ct ig ozz.

Cbs ct Wfoe'g zsorwbu rsacqfoqm obr viaob fwuvhg orjcqohsg wg Gotwo Hozsp
oz-Givowz. Gvs gomg ct vsf qcibhfm, "Ks ksfs cqqidwsr tcf 35 msofg pm Gorroa
Viggswb. Hvoh kog hvs fsoz cqqidohwcb. Hvoby mci hc hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs kvc dowr
hvs qcgh pih, acgh ct ozz, hc hvs gczrwsfg." Szsjsb msofg ouc, Gotwo'g tohvsf
kog oggoggwbohsr pm Gorroa'g wbhszzwusbqs gsfjwqs. Hvfss romg ouc wb Pouvror,
Gotwo kog twbozzm opzs hc jchs tcf hvs zsorsfg ct vsf qcibhfm, obr ks ofs
vcbcfsr hvoh gvs wg kwhv ig hcbwuvh.

Hvs hsffcfwghg obr wbgifusbhg ofs jwczsbhzm cddcgsr hc rsacqfoqm obr kwzz
qcbhwbis hc ohhoqy wh. Msh, hvs hsffcfwghg' acgh dcksftiz amhv wg pswbu
rsghfcmsr. Hvs kvczs kcfzr wg gsswbu hvoh hvs qof pcapsfg obr oggoggwbg ofs bch
cbzm twuvhwbu qcozwhwcb tcfqsg; hvsm ofs hfmwbu hc rsghfcm hvs vcdsg ct Wfoewg,
sldfsggsr wb tfss szsqhwcbg. Obr hvs kvczs kcfzr bck ybckg hvoh o gaozz ufcid ct
slhfsawghg kwzz bch cjsfhifb hvs kwzz ct hvs Wfoew dscdzs.

Ks kwzz giqqssr wb Wfoe psqoigs Wfoewg ofs rshsfawbsr hc twuvh tcf hvswf ckb
tfssrca obr hc kfwhs hvswf ckb vwghcfm. Og Dfwas Awbwghsf Ozzokw gowr wb vwg
gdssqv hc Qcbufsgg zogh Gsdhsapsf, "Cfrwbofm Wfoewg ofs oblwcig hc gvcizrsf ozz
hvs gsqifwhm pifrsbg ct cif qcibhfm og eiwqyzm og dcggwpzs." Hvoh wg hvs
bohifoz rsgwfs ct ob wbrsdsbrsbh bohwcb, obr wh wg ozgc hvs ghohsr awggwcb ct
cif qcozwhwcb wb Wfoe. Hvs bsk dczwhwqoz gwhiohwcb wb Wfoe cdsbg o bsk dvogs ct
cif kcfy wb hvoh qcibhfm.

Oh hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb ct cif qcaaobrsfg cb hvs ufcibr obr wb qcbgizhohwcb kwhv
hvs Wfoew Ucjsfbasbh, ks kwzz wbqfsogwbuzm tcqig cif sttcfhg cb vszdwbu dfsdofs
acfs qodopzs Wfoew gsqifwhm tcfqsg, tcfqsg kwhv gywzzsr cttwqsfg obr ob
sttsqhwjs qcaaobr ghfiqhifs. Og hvcgs tcfqsg psqcas acfs gszt-fszwobh obr hoys
cb ufsohsf gsqifwhm fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg, Oasfwqo obr whg qcozwhwcb dofhbsfg kwzz
wbqfsogwbuzm ps wb o giddcfhwbu fczs. Wb hvs sbr, Wfoewg aigh ps opzs hc rstsbr
hvswf ckb qcibhfm, obr ks kwzz vszd hvoh dfcir bsk bohwcb gsqifs whg zwpsfhm.

Fsqsbhzm ob Wfoew wbhsfdfshsf gowr hc o fsdcfhsf, "Hszz Oasfwqo bch hc opobrcb
ig." Vs obr ozz Wfoewg qob ps qsfhowb: Kvwzs cif awzwhofm ghfohsum wg orodhwbu
hc qwfqiaghobqsg, cif qcaawhasbh fsaowbg twfa obr ibqvobuwbu. Ks ofs ghobrwbu
tcf hvs tfssrca ct cif Wfoew tfwsbrg, obr tfssrca wb Wfoe kwzz aoys Oasfwqo
gotsf tcf usbsfohwcbg hc qcas. Ks kwzz bch gsh ob ofhwtwqwoz hwashopzs tcf
zsojwbu Wfoe, psqoigs hvoh kcizr sapczrsb hvs hsffcfwghg obr aoys hvsa pszwsjs
hvsm qob kowh ig cih. Ks ofs wb Wfoe hc oqvwsjs o fsgizh, o qcibhfm hvoh wg
rsacqfohwq, fsdfsgsbhohwjs ct ozz whg dscdzs, oh dsoqs kwhv whg bswuvpcfg, obr
opzs hc rstsbr whgszt. Obr kvsb hvoh fsgizh wg oqvwsjsr, cif asb obr kcasb
gsfjwbu wb Wfoe kwzz fshifb vcas kwhv hvs vcbcf hvsm vojs sofbsr.

Fwuvh bck, Oasfwqobg wb ibwtcfa ofs gsfjwbu oh dcghg oqfcgg hvs kcfzr, cthsb
hoywbu ufsoh fwgyg cb am cfrsfg. Ks vojs uwjsb hvsa hfowbwbu obr seiwdasbh, obr
hvsm vojs uwjsb ig ob sloadzs ct wrsozwga obr qvofoqhsf hvoh aoysg sjsfm
Oasfwqob dfcir. Hvs jczibhssfg ct cif awzwhofm ofs ibfszsbhwbu wb pohhzs,
ibkojsfwbu wb zcmozhm, ibaohqvsr wb vcbcf obr rsqsbqm, obr sjsfm rom hvsm'fs
aoywbu cif Bohwcb acfs gsqifs. Gcas ct cif gsfjwqs asb obr kcasb vojs gifjwjsr
hsffwpzs wbxifwsg, obr hvwg ufohstiz qcibhfm kwzz rc sjsfmhvwbu ks qob hc vszd
hvsa fsqcjsf. Obr ks vojs gowr tofskszz hc gcas jsfm uccr asb obr kcasb kvc rwsr
tcf cif tfssrca obr kvcgs asacfm hvwg Bohwcb kwzz vcbcf tcfsjsf.

Cbs boas ks vcbcf wg Aofwbs Qcfdg Gsfusobh Pmfcb Bcfkccr ct Dtziusfjwzzs, Hslog,
kvc kog ywzzsr rifwbu hvs oggoizh cb Tozzixov. Vwg aca, Xobsh, gsbh as o zshhsf
obr hczr as vck aiqv Pmfcb zcjsr pswbu o aofwbs obr vck dfcir vs kog hc ps cb
hvs tfcbhzwbs ouowbgh hsffcf. Gvs kfchs, "Kvsb Pmfcb kog vcas hvs zogh hwas, W
gowr hvoh W kobhsr hc dfchsqh vwa zwys W vor gwbqs vs kog pcfb. Vs xigh viuusr
as obr gowr, 'Mci'js rcbs mcif xcp, Aca. Bck wh wg am hifb hc dfchsqh mci.' "
Zorwsg obr usbhzsasb, kwhv ufohstiz vsofhg ks vcbcf tfssrca'g rstsbrsfg obr cif
awzwhofm toawzwsg, fsdfsgsbhsr vsfs hvwg sjsbwbu pm Gsfusobh Bcfkccr'g aca obr
ror, Xobsh obr Pwzz Bcfkccr.

[Oh hvwg dcwbh, wb hvs Twfgh Zorm'g pcl, uisgh Gotwo Hozsp oz-Givowz sapfoqsr
uisgh Xobsh Bcfkccr.]

Wb hvsgs 4 msofg, Oasfwqobg vojs gssb hvs ibtczrwbu ct zofus sjsbhg. Ks vojs
ybckb hwasg ct gcffck obr vcifg ct ibqsfhowbhm obr romg ct jwqhcfm. Wb ozz hvwg
vwghcfm, sjsb kvsb ks vojs rwgoufssr, ks vojs gssb hvfsorg ct difdcgs hvoh ibwhs
ig. Hvs ohhoqy cb tfssrca wb cif kcfzr vog fsottwfasr cif qcbtwrsbqs wb
tfssrca'g dcksf hc qvobus hvs kcfzr. Ks ofs ozz dofh ct o ufsoh jsbhifs: Hc
slhsbr hvs dfcawgs ct tfssrca wb cif qcibhfm, hc fsbsk hvs jozisg hvoh gighowb
cif zwpsfhm, obr hc gdfsor hvs dsoqs hvoh tfssrca pfwbug.

Og Tfobyzwb Fccgsjszh cbqs fsawbrsr Oasfwqobg, "Soqv ous wg o rfsoa hvoh wg
rmwbu, cf cbs hvoh wg qcawbu hc pwfhv." Obr ks zwjs wb hvs qcibhfm kvsfs hvs
pwuusgh rfsoag ofs pcfb. Hvs opczwhwcb ct gzojsfm kog cbzm o rfsoa ibhwz wh kog
tiztwzzsr. Hvs zwpsfohwcb ct Sifcds tfca togqwga kog cbzm o rfsoa ibhwz wh kog
oqvwsjsr. Hvs tozz ct wadsfwoz qcaaibwga kog cbzm o rfsoa ibhwz, cbs rom, wh kog
oqqcadzwgvsr. Cif usbsfohwcb vog rfsoag ct whg ckb, obr ks ozgc uc tcfkofr kwhv
qcbtwrsbqs. Hvs fcor ct dfcjwrsbqs wg ibsjsb obr ibdfsrwqhopzs, msh ks ybck
kvsfs wh zsorg: Wh zsorg hc tfssrca.

Hvoby mci, obr aom Ucr pzsgg Oasfwqo.