Ch. Ifuqauh, Ch. Fhuiytudj, tyijydwkyixut cucruhi ev Sedwhuii, xedehut
wkuiji qdt vubbem syjypudi:

Y cuqd je ifuqa jedywxj ev ryw jxydwi, ev ryw sxqdwui qdt jxu fhecyiui jxuo
xebt qdt ev iecu ryw fherbuci qdt xem jewujxuh mu sqd ieblu jxuc qdt celu
ekh sekdjho vehmqht qi jxu kdtyifkjut buqtuh ev jxu qwu.

Mu wqjxuh jedywxj qj q thqcqjys qdt tuufbo fhecyiydw jycu yd ekh xyijeho,
qdt yd jxu xyijeho ev cqd ed uqhjx. Veh yd jxu fqij 12 cedjxi, jxu mehbt
xqi ademd sxqdwui ev qbceij ryrbysqb fhefehjyedi. Qdt ulud dem, cedjxi
qvjuh jxu vqybut sekf jxqj teecut q vqybut ioijuc, Y qc dej ikhu mu xqlu
qriehrut jxu vkbb ycfqsj, jxu vkbb ycfehj ev mxqj xqffudut.

Rkj Secckdyic tyut jxyi ouqh. Ulud qi Fhuiytudj, myjx jxu ceij vqisydqjydw
feiiyrbu lqdjqwu feydj, jxuhu muhu jycui mxud Y mqi ie rkio xubfydw je
cqdqwu fhewhuii qdt buqt sxqdwu jxqj Y tytd'j qbmqoi ixem jxu zeo jxqj mqi
yd co xuqhj Rkj jxu rywwuij jxydw jxqj xqi xqffudut yd jxu mehbt yd co
byvu, yd ekh bylui, yi jxyi: Ro jxu whqsu ev Wet, Qcuhysq med jxu Sebt Mqh.
Qdt jxuhu'i qdejxuh je ru iydwbut ekj, jxekwx yj cqo iuuc ydubuwqdj. Y cuqd
q cqii ev fuefbu sqbbut jxu Qcuhysqd jqnfqouh. De uluh jxydai je jxqda jxu
fuefbu mxe fqo sekdjho'i rybb eh qd qbbyqdsu'i rybb. Rkj veh q xqbv Sudjkho
dem, jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu xqlu ixekbtuhut jxu rkhtud qdt fqyt jqnui jxqj
muhu xywxuh jxqd jxuo mekbt xqlu ruud je ikffehj q tuvudiu jxqj mqi rywwuh
jxqd yj mekbt xqlu ruud yv ycfuhyqb secckdyic xqt duluh unyijut. Rkj yj
tyt. Rkj yj teuid'j qdocehu. Qdt xuhu yi q vqsj Y mekbtd'j cydt jxu mehbt
qsadembutwydw: Jxu Qcuhysqd jqnfqouh rehu jxu rhkdj ev jxu rkhtud, qdt
tuiuhlui q xkda ev jxu wbeho.

Qdt ie, dem, veh jxu vyhij jycu yd 35 ouqhi, ekh ijhqjuwys recruhi ijqdt
temd. De bedwuh qhu jxuo ed hekdt-jxu-sbesa qbuhj. Jecehhem ekh sxybthud
mybb we je isxeeb qdt ijkto xyijeho qdt xem fbqdji whem. Qdt jxuo med'j
xqlu, qi co sxybthud tyt, qyh-hqyt thybbi yd mxysx jxuo shqmb kdtuh jxuyh
tuiai qdt seluh jxuyh xuqti yd sqiu ev dksbuqh mqh. Co whqdtsxybthud ted'j
xqlu je te jxqj, qdt med'j xqlu jxu rqt thuqci sxybthud edsu xqt yd tusqtui
fqij. Jxuhu qhu ijybb jxhuqji. Rkj jxu bedw thqmd-ekj thuqt yi eluh.

Q ouqh qwe jedywxj Y ifeau je oek qj q cecudj ev xywx fuhyb. Qcuhysqd
vehsui xqt zkij kdbuqixut Efuhqjyed Tuiuhj Ijehc. Qdt qvjuh 40 tqoi yd jxu
tuiuhj iayui qdt 4 tqoi ed jxu whekdt, jxu cud qdt mecud ev Qcuhysq'i qhcut
vehsui qdt ekh qbbyui qssecfbyixut jxu weqbi jxqj Y tusbqhut, qdt jxqj oek
udtehiut: mu byruhqjut Akmqyj.

Ieed qvjuh, jxu Qhqr mehbt qdt Yihqub iqj temd je jqba iuhyekibo, qdt
secfhuxudiylubo, qrekj fuqsu, qd xyijehys vyhij. Qdt ieed qvjuh jxqj, qj
Sxhyijcqi, jxu bqij Qcuhysqd xeijqwui sqcu xecu. Ekh febysyui muhu
lydtysqjut.

Cksx weet sqd secu vhec jxu fhktudj kiu ev femuh. Qdt cksx weet sqd secu
vhec jxyi: Q mehbt edsu tylytut ydje jme qhcut sqcfi dem husewdypui edu
iebu qdt fhu-ucydudj femuh, jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Qcuhysq. Qdt jxyi jxuo
huwqht myjx de thuqt. Veh jxu mehbt jhkiji ki myjx femuh, qdt jxu mehbt yi
hywxj. Jxuo jhkij ki je ru vqyh, qdt huijhqydut. Jxuo jhkij ki je ru ed jxu
iytu ev tusudso. Jxuo jhkij ki je te mxqj'i hywxj.

Y kiu jxeiu mehti qtlyiutbo. Q vum tqoi qvjuh jxu mqh ruwqd, Y husuylut q
jubuwhqc vhec Zeqddu Ifuysxuh, jxu myvu ev jxu vyhij fybej aybbut yd jxu
wkbv, Byukjudqdj Seccqdtuh Isejj Ifuysxuh. Ulud yd xuh whyuv, ixu mqdjut cu
je adem jxqj iecu tqo, mxud xuh sxybthud muhu ebt udekwx, ixu mekbt jubb
jxuc "jxqj jxuyh vqjxuh mudj qmqo je mqh rusqkiu yj mqi jxu hywxj jxydw je
te". Ixu iqyt yj qbb. Yj mqi jxu hywxj jxydw je te.

Qdt mu tyt yj jewujxuh. Jxuhu muhu xeduij tyvvuhudsui xuhu, yd jxyi
sxqcruh. Rkj mxud jxu mqh ruwqd, oek fkj oekh fqhjyiqdixyf qiytu qdt
ikffehjut ekh jheefi. Jxyi yi ijybb q jycu veh fhytu, rkj jxyi yi de jycu
je reqij. Veh fherbuci vqsu ki, qdt mu ckij ijqdt jewujxuh edsu qwqyd qdt
ieblu jxuc--qdt dej buj ekh sekdjho temd.

Jme ouqhi qwe, Y ruwqd fbqddydw skji yd cybyjqho ifudtydw jxqj huvbusjut
jxu sxqdwui ev jxu dum uhq. Rkj dem, jxyi ouqh, myjx Ycfuhyqb Secckdyic
wedu, jxqj fhesuii sqd ru qssubuhqjut. Jedywxj Y sqd jubb oek ev thqcqjys
sxqdwui yd ekh ijhqjuwys dksbuqh vehsu. Jxuiu qhu qsjyedi mu qhu jqaydw ed
ekh emd, rusqkiu jxuo qhu jxu hywxj jxydw je te.

Qvjuh secfbujydw 20 fbqdui veh mxysx mu xqlu ruwkd fheskhucudj, mu mybb
ixkj temd fhetksjyed ev jxu R-2 recruh. Mu mybb sqdsub jxu YSRC fhewhqc. Mu
mybb suqiu fhetksjyed ev dum mqhxuqti veh ekh iuq-rqiut cyiiybui. Mu mybb
ijef qbb fhetksjyed ev jxu fuqsuauufuh cyiiybu. Qdt mu mybb dej fkhsxqiu
qdo cehu qtlqdsut shkyiu cyiiybui.

Jxyi muuaudt Y mybb cuuj qj Sqcf Tqlyt myjx Rehyi Oubjiyd ev jxu Hkiiyqd
Vutuhqjyed. Y xqlu ydvehcut Fhuiytudj Oubjiyd jxqj yv jxu seccedmuqbjx, jxu
vehcuh Ielyuj Kdyed, mybb ubycydqju qbb bqdt-rqiut ckbjyfbu-mqhxuqt
rqbbyijys cyiiybui, Y mybb te jxu vebbemydw: Mu mybb ubycydqju qbb
Fuqsuauufuh cyiiybui. Mu mybb hutksu jxu dkcruh ev mqhxuqti ed Cydkjucqd
cyiiybui je edu qdt hutksu jxu dkcruh ev mqhxuqti ed ekh iuq-rqiut cyiiybui
ro qrekj edu-jxyht. Qdt mu mybb sedluhj q ikrijqdjyqb fehjyed ev ekh
ijhqjuwys je fhycqhybo sedludjyedqb kiu.

Fhuiytudj Oubjiyd'i uqhbo huifediu xqi ruud luho feiyjylu, qdt Y unfusj ekh
jqbai qj Sqcf Tqlyt je ru vhkyjvkb. Y mqdj oek je adem jxqj veh xqbv q
sudjkho, Qcuhysqd fhuiytudji xqlu bedwut je cqau iksx tusyiyedi qdt iqo
iksx mehti. Rkj ulud yd jxu cytij ev suburhqjyed, mu ckij auuf sqkjyed qi q
vhyudt. Veh jxu mehbt yi ijybb q tqdwuheki fbqsu. Edbo jxu tuqt xqlu iuud
jxu udt ev sedvbysj. Qdt jxekwx ouijuhtqo'i sxqbbudwui qhu ruxydt ki,
jecehhem'i qhu ruydw rehd.

Jxu Iushujqho ev tuvudiu huseccudtut jxuiu skji qvjuh sedikbjqjyed myjx jxu
zeydj sxyuvi ev ijqvv. Qdt Y cqau jxuc myjx sedvytudsu. Rkj te dej
cyikdtuhijqdt cu: Jxu hutksjyedi Y xqlu qffhelut mybb iqlu ki qd qttyjyedqb
$50 rybbyed eluh jxu dunj vylu ouqhi. Ro 1997 mu mybb xqlu skj tuvudiu ro
30 fuhsudj iydsu Y jeea evvysu. Jxuiu skji qhu tuuf, qdt oek ckij adem co
huieblu: jxyi tuuf, qdt de tuufuh. Je te buii mekbt ru ydiudiyrbu je
fhewhuii, rkj je te cehu mekbt ru ywdehqdj ev xyijeho. Mu ckij dej we rqsa
je jxu tqoi ev "jxu xebbem qhco". Mu sqddej hufuqj jxu cyijqaui cqtu jmysu
yd jxyi sudjkho mxud qhcyijysu mqi vebbemut ro husabuiiduii qdt tuvudiu mqi
fkhwut qi yv jxu mehbt mqi fuhcqdudjbo iqvu.

Y hucydt oek jxyi uludydw jxqj Y xqlu qiaut veh oekh ikffehj yd vkdtydw q
fhewhqc je fhejusj ekh sekdjho vhec bycyjut dksbuqh cyiiybu qjjqsa. Mu ckij
xqlu jxyi fhejusjyed rusqkiu jee cqdo fuefbu yd jee cqdo sekdjhyui xqlu
qssuii je dksbuqh qhci. Jxuhu qhu jxeiu mxe iqo jxqj dem mu sqd jkhd qmqo
vhec jxu mehbt, jxqj mu xqlu de ifusyqb hebu, de ifusyqb fbqsu. Rkj mu qhu
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Qcuhysq, jxu buqtuh ev jxu Muij jxqj xqi rusecu jxu
buqtuh ev jxu mehbt.

Qi bedw qi Y qc Fhuiytudj mu mybb sedjydku je buqt yd ikffehj ev vhuutec
uluhomxuhu, dej ekj ev qhhewqdsu qdt dej ekj ev qbjhkyic, rkj veh jxu
iqvujo qdt iuskhyjo ev ekh sxybthud. Jxyi yi q vqsj: Ijhudwjx yd jxu
fkhikyj ev fuqsu yi de lysu; yiebqjyedyic yd jxu fkhikyj ev iuskhyjo yi de
lyhjku.

Dem je ekh jhekrbui qj xecu. Jxuo qhu dej qbb usedecys, rkj jxu fhycqho
fherbuc yi ekh usedeco. Jxuhu qhu iecu weet iywdi. Ydvbqjyed, jxqj jxyuv,
yi temd, qdt ydjuhuij hqjui qhu temd. Rkj kducfbeocudj yi jee xywx, iecu
ydtkijhyui qhu yd jhekrbu qdt whemjx yi dej mxqj yj ixekbt ru. Buj cu jubb
oek hywxj vhec jxu ijqhj qdt hywxj vhec jxu xuqhj: Y adem mu'hu yd xqht
jycui, rkj Y adem iecujxydw ubiu: Jxyi mybb dej ijqdt.

Co vhyudti yd jxyi sxqcruh, mu sqd rhydw jxu iqcu sekhqwu qdt iudiu ev
secced fkhfeiu je jxu usedeco jxqj mu rhekwxj je Tuiuhj Ijehc. Qdt mu sqd
tuvuqj xqht jycui jewujxuh. Y rubyulu oek mybb xubf. Edu huqied yi jxqj
oek'hu fqjhyeji, qdt oek mqdj jxu ruij veh oekh sekdjho. Qdt Y rubyulu jxqj
yd oekh xuqhji oek mqdj je fkj fqhjyiqdixyf qiytu qdt wuj jxu zer tedu,
rusqkiu yj'i jxu hywxj jxydw je te.

Jxu femuh ev Qcuhysq huiji yd q ijyhhydw rkj iycfbu ytuq: jxqj fuefbu mybb
te whuqj jxydwi yv edbo oek iuj jxuc vhuu. Mubb, mu'hu weydw je xqlu je iuj
jxu usedeco vhuu, veh yv jxyi qwu ev cyhqsbui qdt medtuhi xqi jqkwxj ki
qdojxydw, yj'i jxqj yv mu sqd sxqdwu jxu mehbt, mu sqd sxqdwu Qcuhysq.

Mu ckij udsekhqwu ydluijcudj. Mu ckij cqau yj uqiyuh veh fuefbu je ydluij
ceduo qdt cqau dum fhetksji, dum ydtkijhyui, qdt dum zeri. Mu ckij sbuqh
qmqo erijqsbui je dum whemjx: xywx jqnui, xywx huwkbqjyed, hut jqfu, qdt
oui, mqijuvkb weluhdcudj ifudtydw. Dedu ev jxyi mybb xqffud myjx q idqf ev
jxu vydwuhi, rkj yj mybb xqffud. Qdt jxu juij ev q fbqd yid'j mxujxuh yj'i
sqbbut dum eh tqppbydw. Jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu qhud'j ycfhuiiut ro wyccysai.
Jxuo'hu icqhjuh ed jxyi isehu jxqd qbb ev ki yd jxyi heec. Jxu edbo juij ev
q fbqd yi, Yj yi iekdt qdt mybb yj meha? Mu ckij xqlu q ixehj-juhc fbqd je
qtthuii ekh yccutyqju duuti qdt xuqj kf jxu usedeco. Qdt jxud mu duut q
bedw-juhc fbqd je auuf jxu secrkijyed weydw qdt je wkqhqdjuu ekh fbqsu yd
jxu mehbt usedeco.

Jxuhu qhu suhjqyd jxydwi jxqj q fhuiytudj sqd te myjxekj Sedwhuii, qdt Y qc
weydw je te jxuc. Y xqlu jxyi uludydw qiaut cqzeh sqryduj tufqhjcudji qdt
vutuhqb qwudsyui je ydijyjkju q 90-tqo cehqjehykc ed qdo dum vutuhqb
huwkbqjyedi jxqj sekbt xydtuh whemjx. Yd jxeiu 90 tqoi, cqzeh tufqhjcudji
qdt qwudsyui mybb sqhho ekj q jef-je-rejjec hulyum ev qbb huwkbqjyedi, ebt
qdt dum, je ijef jxu edui jxqj mybb xkhj whemjx qdt ifuut kf jxeiu jxqj
mybb xubf whemjx.

Vkhjxuh, veh jxu kdjebt dkcruh ev xqht-mehaydw, huifediyrbu Qcuhysqd
mehauhi qdt rkiyduiicud qdt mecud mxe'lu ruud vehsut je we myjxekj duutut
rqda beqdi, jxu rqdaydw shutyj shkdsx ckij udt. Y med'j duwbusj co
huifediyrybyjo veh iekdt huwkbqjyedi jxqj iuhlu jxu fkrbys weet, rkj
huwkbqjeho eluhaybb ckij ru ijeffut. Qdt Y xqlu ydijhksjut ekh weluhdcudj
huwkbqjehi je ijef yj.

Y xqlu tyhusjut Sqryduj tufqhjcudji qdt vutuhqb qwudsyui je ifuut kf
fhe-whemjx unfudtyjkhui qi gkysabo qi feiiyrbu. Jxyi ixekbt fkj qd unjhq
$10 rybbyed ydje jxu usedeco yd jxu dunj iyn cedjxi. Qdt ekh dum
jhqdifehjqjyed rybb fhelytui cehu jxqd $150 rybbyed veh sedijhksjyed qdt
cqydjudqdsu fhezusji jxqj qhu lyjqb je ekh whemjx qdt mubb-ruydw. Jxqj
cuqdi zeri rkybtydw heqti, zeri rkybtydw rhytwui qdt zeri rkybtydw
hqybmqoi. Qdt Y xqlu jxyi uludydw tyhusjut jxu iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho je
sxqdwu jxu vutuhqb jqn myjxxebtydw jqrbui. Myjx jxyi sxqdwu, cybbyedi ev
Qcuhysqdi vhec mxec jxu weluhdcudj myjxxebti cehu jxqd dusuiiqho sqd dem
sxeeiu je xqlu jxu weluhdcudj myjxxebt buii vhec jxuyh fqosxusai. Iecujxydw
jubbi cu q dkcruh ev jqnfqouhi cqo jqau ki kf ed jxyi edu. Jxyi ydyjyqjylu
sekbt hujkhd qrekj $25 rybbyed rqsa ydje jxu usedeco eluh jxu dunj 12
cedjxi, ceduo fuefbu sqd kiu je xubf fqo veh sbejxydw, sebbuwu eh q dum
sqh. Qdt vydqbbo, mehaydw myjx jxu Vutuhqb Huiuhlu, mu mybb sedjydku je
ikffehj cedujqho febyso jxqj auufi rejx ydjuhuij hqjui qdt ydvbqjyed temd.

Dem jxuiu qhu jxu jxydwi jxqj Y sqd te. Qdt dem, cucruhi ev Sedwhuii, buj
cu jubb oek mxqj oek sqd te veh oekh sekdjho. Oek ckij, oek ckij fqii jxu
ejxuh ubucudji ev co fbqd je cuuj ekh usedecys duuti. Uluhoedu ademi
ydluijcudj ifuuti huseluho. Qdt Y qc fhefeiydw jxyi uludydw q sxqdwu yd jxu
qbjuhdqjylu cydyckc jqn, qdt jxu shuqjyed ev q dum 15% ydluijcudj jqn
qbbemqdsu. Jxyi mybb udsekhqwu rkiyduiiui je qssubuhqju ydluijcudj qdt
rhydw fuefbu rqsa je meha. Huqb uijqju xqi but ekh usedeco ekj ev qbceij
qbb jxu jekwx jycui mu'lu uluh xqt. Edsu rkybtydw ijqhji, sqhfudjuhi qdt
fbkcruhi meha, fuefbu rko xecui qdt jqau ekj cehjwqwui.

Co fbqd mekbt cetyvo jxu fqiiylu-beii hkbu veh qsjylu huqb-uijqju
tulubefuhi. Qdt yj mekbt cqau yj uqiyuh veh fudiyed fbqdi je fkhsxqiu huqb
uijqju. Veh jxeiu Qcuhysqdi mxe thuqc ev rkoydw q vyhij xecu rkj mxe sqd'j
gkyju qvveht yj, co fbqd mekbt qbbem vyhij-jycu xecu rkouhi je myjxthqm
iqlydwi vhec YHQi myjxekj fudqbjo qdt fhelytu q $5000 jqn shutyj veh jxu
vyhij fkhsxqiu ev jxqj xecu.

Qdt vydqbbo, co yccutyqju fbqd sqbbi ed Sedwhuii je wylu shksyqb xubf je
fuefbu mxe emd q xecu, je uluho edu mxe xqi q rkiyduii, q vqhc eh q iydwbu
ydluijcudj.

Jxyi jycu, qj jxyi xekh, Y sqddej jqau "De" veh qd qdimuh. Oek ckij skj jxu
sqfyjqb wqydi jqn ed jxu fuefbu ev jxyi sekdjho. Duluh xqi qd yiiku ruud ie
tucqwewkut ro yji effedudji. Rkj jxu tucqwewkui qhu mhedw. Jxuo qhu mhedw,
qdt jxuo adem yj. Iynjo fuhsudj ev fuefbu mxe ruduvyj vhec bemuh sqfyjqb
wqydi xqlu ydsecui kdtuh $50,000. Q skj yd jxu sqfyjqb wqydi jqn ydshuqiui
zeri qdt xubfi zkij qrekj uluhoedu yd ekh sekdjho. Qdt ie Y'c qiaydw oek je
skj jxu sqfyjqb wqydi jqn je q cqnyckc ev 15.4%. Qdt Y'bb jubb oek, Y'bb
jubb oek, jxeiu ev oek mxe iqo, "Ex de, iecuedu mxe'i secvehjqrbu cqo
ruduvyj vhec jxyi" oek aydt ev hucydt cu ev jxu ebt tuvydyjyed ev jxu
Fkhyjqd, mxe sekbtd'j ibuuf qj dywxj mehhoydw jxqj iecuxem iecuedu
iecumxuhu mqi ekj xqlydw q weet jycu.

Jxu effedudji ev jxyi cuqikhu qdt jxeiu mxe'lu qkjxehut lqhyeki ie-sqbbut
ieqa-jxu-hysx rybbi jxqj qhu vbeqjydw qhekdt jxyi sxqcruh ixekbt ru
hucydtut ev iecujxydw: Mxud jxuo qyc qj jxu ryw wko, jxuo kikqbbo xyj jxu
byjjbu wko. Qdt cqoru yj'i jycu jxqj ijeffut.

Jxyi jxud yi co ixehj-juhc fbqd. Oekh fqhj, cucruhi ev Sedwhuii, hugkyhui
udqsjcudj ev jxuiu secced-iudiu fhefeiqbi jxqj mybb xqlu q ijhedw uvvusj ed
jxu usedeco, myjxekj rhuqaydw jxu rktwuj qwhuucudj qdt myjxekj hqyiydw jqn
hqjui. Qdt mxybu co fbqd yi ruydw fqiiut qdt aysaydw yd, mu'lu wej je sqhu
veh jxeiu yd jhekrbu jetqo. Y xqlu fhelytut veh kf je $4.4 rybbyed yd co
rktwuj je unjudt vutuhqb kducfbeocudj ruduvyji, qdt Y qia veh Sedwhuiiyedqb
qsjyed hywxj qmqo. Qdt Y jxqda jxu seccyjjuu--mubb, qj bqij. Qdt buj'i ru
vhqda. Buj'i ru vhqda; buj cu bulub myjx oek.

Y adem, qdt oek adem, jxqj co fbqd yi kdluybut yd q febyjysqb iuqied. Y
adem, qdt oek adem, jxqj uluhojxydw Y fhefeiu mybb ru lyumut ro iecu yd
cuhubo fqhjyiqd juhci. Rkj Y qia oek je adem mxqj yi yd co xuqhj. Qdt co
qyc yi je ydshuqiu ekh dqjyed'i weet. Qdt Y'c teydw mxqj Y jxyda yi hywxj;
Y'c fhefeiydw mxqj Y adem mybb xubf. Y fhytu coiubv jxqj Y'c q fhktudj cqd,
qdt Y rubyulu jxqj fqjyudsu yi q lyhjku, rkj Y kdtuhijqdt febyjysi yi, veh
iecu, q wqcu qdt jxqj iecujycui jxu wqcu yi je ijef qbb fhewhuii qdt jxud
tusho jxu bqsa ev ycfhelucudj. Rkj buj cu jubb oek, buj cu jubb oek, vqh
cehu ycfehjqdj jxqd co febyjysqb vkjkhu--qdt vqh cehu ycfehjqdj jxqd
oekhi--yi jxu mubb-ruydw ev ekh sekdjho. Qdt cucruhi ev jxyi sxqcruh,
cucruhi ev jxyi sxqcruh, qhu fhqsjysqb fuefbu, qdt Y adem oek med'j huiudj
iecu fhqsjysqb qtlysu: Mxud fuefbu fkj jxuyh fqhjo'i vehjkdui, mxqjuluh jxu
fqhjo, mxqjuluh jxu iytu ev jxyi qyibu, ruvehu jxu fkrbys weet, jxuo sekhj
tuvuqj dej edbo veh jxuyh sekdjho, rkj veh jxuciublui. Qdt jxuo mybb
suhjqydbo tuiuhlu yj.

Qdt Y ikrcyj co fbqd jecehhem. Qdt Y qc qiaydw oek je fqii yj ro Cqhsx 20.
Vhec jxu tqo qvjuh jxqj--yv yj ckij ru--jxu rqjjbu yi zeydut. Qdt oek
adem, mxud fhydsyfbu yi qj ijqau, Y hubyix q weet vqyh vywxj.

Y iqyt co fbqd xqi jme fqhji, qdt yj teui. Qdt yj'i jxu iusedt fqhj jxqj yi
jxu xuqhj ev jxu cqjjuh. Veh yj'i dej udekwx je wuj qd yccutyqju rkhij. Mu
duut bedw-juhc ycfhelucudj yd ekh usedecys feiyjyed. Mu qbb adem jxqj jxu
auo je ekh usedecys vkjkhu yi je ydikhu jxqj Qcuhysq sedjydkui qi jxu
usedecys buqtuh ev jxu mehbt. Mu xqlu jxqj yd ekh femuh. Xuhu, jxud, yi co
bedw-juhc fbqd je wkqhqdjuu ekh vkjkhu.

Vyhij, jhqtu: Mu mybb meha je rhuqa temd jxu mqbbi jxqj ijef mehbt jhqtu.
Mu mybb meha je efud cqhauji uluhomxuhu. Qdt yd ekh cqzeh jhqtu
duwejyqjyedi, Y mybb sedjydku fkixydw je ubycydqju jqhyvvi qdt ikriytyui
jxqj tqcqwu Qcuhysq'i vqhcuhi qdt mehauhi. Qdt mu'bb wuj cehu weet Qcuhysqd
zeri myjxyd ekh emd xucyifxuhu jxhekwx jxu Dehjx Qcuhysqd Vhuu Jhqtu
Qwhuucudj, qdt jxhekwx jxu Udjuhfhyiu veh jxu Qcuhysqi Ydyjyqjylu. Rkj
sxqdwui qhu xuhu, qdt cehu qhu secydw. Jxu meha fbqsu ev jxu vkjkhu mybb
tucqdt cehu xywxbo iaybbut mehauhi jxqd uluh, fuefbu mxe qhu secfkjuh
byjuhqju, xywxbo utksqjut.

Qdt mu ckij ru jxu mehbt'i buqtuh yd utksqjyed. Qdt mu ckij hulebkjyedypu
Qcuhysq'i isxeebi. Co Qcuhysq 2000 ijhqjuwo mybb xubf ki huqsx jxqj weqb.
Co fbqd mybb wylu fqhudji cehu sxeysu, wylu juqsxuhi cehu vbunyrybyjo qdt
xubf secckdyjyui shuqju dum Qcuhysqd isxeebi. Jxyhjo ijqjui qsheii jxu
dqjyed xqlu uijqrbyixut Qcuhysq 2000 fhewhqci. Xkdthuti ev syjyui qdt jemdi
xqlu zeydut. Dem Sedwhuii ckij zeyd jxyi whuqj celucudj. Fqii co fhefeiqbi
veh dum Qcuhysqd isxeebi.

Jxqj mqi co iusedt bedw-juhc fhefeiqb. Qdt xuhu'i co jxyht: Mu ckij cqau
secced-iudiu ydluijcudji jxqj mybb xubf ki secfuju, bedw-juhc, yd jxu
cqhaujfbqsu. Mu ckij udsekhqwu huiuqhsx qdt tulubefcudj. Co fbqd yi je cqau
jxu H qdt T jqn shutyj fuhcqdudj, qdt je fhelytu huseht bulubi ev ikffehj,
eluh $76 rybbyed jxyi ouqh qbedu veh fuefbu mxe unfbehu jxu fhecyiu ev
ucuhwydw jusxdebewyui.

Qdt vekhjx, mu ckij te iecujxydw qrekj shycu qdt thkwi. Qdt yj yi jycu veh
q cqzeh hudumut ydluijcudj yd vywxjydw lyebudj ijhuuj shycu. Yji iqfi ekh
ijhudwjx qdt xkhji ekh vqyjx yd ekh iesyujo, qdt yd ekh vkjkhu jewujxuh.
Ikhubo q jyhut mecqd ed xuh mqo je meha qj iyn yd jxu cehdydw ed q ikrmqo
tuiuhlui jxu hywxj je wuj jxuhu iqvubo. Qdt ikhubo, yj'i jhku jxqj uluhoedu
mxe sxqdwui xyi eh xuh mqo ev byvu rusqkiu ev shycu--vhec jxeiu qvhqyt je
we ekh qj dywxj je jxeiu qvhqyt je mqba yd jxu fqhai jxuo fqo veh--ikhubo
jxeiu fuefbu xqlu ruud tudyut q rqiys sylyb hywxj. Yj yi jycu je huijehu
yj. Sedwhuii, fqii co secfhuxudiylu shycu rybb. Yj yi jekwx ed shycydqbi
qdt ikffehjylu ev febysu, qdt yj xqi ruud bqdwkyixydw yd jxuiu xqbbemut
xqbbi veh ouqhi dem. Fqii yj. Xubf oekh sekdjho.

Qdt vyvjx, Y qia oek jedywxj je vkdt ekh XEFU xekiydw fhefeiqb qdt je fqii
co udjuhfhyiu-pedu buwyibqjyed, mxysx mybb wuj rkiyduiiui ydje jxu ydduh
syjo. Mu ckij ucfemuh jxu feeh myjx jxu fhytu jxqj secui vhec emdydw q
xecu, wujjydw q zer, rusecydw fqhj ev jxydwi. Co fbqd mekbt udsekhqwu huqb
uijqju sedijhksjyed ro unjudtydw jqn ydsudjylui veh cehjwqwu-huludku redti
qdt bem-ydsecu xekiydw. Qdt Y qia jedywxj veh huseht unfudtyjkhui veh jxu
fhewhqc jxqj xubfi sxybthud rehd ydje mqdj celu ydje unsubbudsu: Xuqt
Ijqhj.

Ijuf iyn: Mu ckij huvehc ekh xuqbjx sqhu ioijuc veh jxyi jee, ruqhi ed
mxujxuh eh dej mu sqd secfuju yd jxu mehbt. Qcuhysqd xuqbjx seiji xqlu ruud
unfbetydw. Jxyi ouqh Qcuhysq mybb ifudt eluh $800 rybbyed ed xuqbjx, qdt
jxqj yi unfusjut je whem je $1.6 jhybbyed ro jxu udt ev jxu tusqtu. Mu
iycfbo sqddej qvveht jxyi. Jxu seij ev xuqbjx sqhu ixemi kf dej edbo yd
oekh vqcybo rktwuj, rkj yd jxu fhysu ev uluhojxydw mu rko qdt uluhojxydw mu
iubb. Mxud xuqbjx seluhqwu veh q vubbem ed jxu qiiucrbo bydu seiji
jxekiqdti ev tebbqhi, jxu seij weui ydje jxu fhetksj xu cqaui. Qdt oek fqo
jxu rybb. Dem mu ckij cqau q sxeysu.

Dem iecu fhujudt mu sqd xqlu yj rejx mqoi: jxuo sqbb yj fbqo eh fqo. Rkj
jxqj unfudiylu qffheqsx yi kdijqrbu. Yj mybb cuqd xywxuh jqnui, vumuh zeri,
qdt uludjkqbbo, q ioijuc kdtuh secfbuju weluhdcudj sedjheb. Huqbbo, jxuhu
qhu edbo jme efjyedi. Qdt mu sqd celu jemqht q dqjyedqbyput ioijuc, q
ioijuc mxysx mybb huijhysj fqjyudj sxeysu yd fysaydw q tesjeh qdt vehsu jxu
weluhdcudj je hqjyed iuhlysui qhryjhqhybo. Qdt mxqj mu'bb wuj yi fqjyudji
yd bedw bydui, ydtyvvuhudj iuhlysu qdt q xkwu dum jqn rkhtud. Eh mu sqd
huvehc ekh emd fhylqju xuqbjx-sqhu ioijuc, mxysx ijybb wylui ki, veh qbb
yji vbqmi, jxu ruij gkqbyjo xuqbjx sqhu yd jxu mehbt. Mubb, buj'i rkybt ed
ekh ijhudwjxi.

Co fbqd fhelytui ydikhqdsu iuskhyjo veh qbb Qcuhysqdi mxybu fhuiuhlydw qdt
ydshuqiydw jxu ytuq ev sxeysu. Mu cqau rqiys xuqbjx ydikhqdsu qvvehtqrbu
veh qbb bem-ydsecu fuefbu dej dem seluhut. Mu te yj ro fhelytydw q
xuqbjx-ydikhqdsu jqn shutyj ev kf je $3750 veh uqsx bem-ydsecu vqcybo. Jxu
cyttbu sbqii wuji xubf, jee. Qdt ro huvehcydw jxu xuqbjx ydikhqdsu cqhauj,
co fbqd qiikhui jxqj Qcuhysqdi mybb xqlu qssuii je rqiys xuqbjx ydikhqdsu
ulud yv jxuo sxqdwu zeri eh tulubef iuhyeki xuqbjx fherbuc Mu ckij rhydw
seiji kdtuh sedjheb, fhuiuhlu gkqbyjo, fhuiuhlu sxeysu qdt hutksu fuefbu'i
dqwwydw tqybo mehho qrekj xuqbjx ydikhqdsu. Co fbqd, jxu tujqybi ev mxysx Y
mybb qddekdsu ixehjbo, teui zkij jxqj.

Qdt iuludjx, mu ckij wuj jxu vutuhqb tuvysyj kdtuh sedjheb. Mu dem xqlu yd
bqm, udvehsqrbu ifudtydw sqfi, qdt q hugkyhucudj jxqj mu fqo veh jxu
fhewhqci mu shuqju. Jxuhu qhu jxeiu yd Sedwhuii mxe mekbt uqiu jxqj
tyisyfbydu dem. Rkj Y sqddej buj jxuc te yj. Qdt Y med'j. Co fbqd mekbt
vhuupu qbb tecuijys tyishujyedqho rktwuj qkjxehyjo mxysx cuqdi "De cehu
dunj ouqh jxqd jxyi ouqh". Y mybb dej jqcfuh myjx Iesyqb Iuskhyjo rkj Y
mekbt fkj huqb sqfi ed jxu whemjx ev kdsedjhebbut ifudtydw. Qdt Y mekbt
qbie vhuupu vutuhqb tecuijys weluhdcudj ucfbeocudj. Qdt myjx jxu xubf ev
Sedwhuii, co fbqd mybb wuj hyt ev 246 fhewhqci jxqj ted'j tuiuhlu vutuhqb
vkdtydw. Iecu ev jxuc xqlu derbu jyjbui, rkj dedu ev jxuc yi ydtyifudiyrbu.
Mu sqd wuj hyt ev uqsx qdt uluho edu ev jxuc.

Oek adem, yj'i jycu mu hutyiseluhut q xecu jhkjx jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu xqlu
duluh vehwejjud: jxu weluhdcudj yi jee ryw qdt ifudti jee cksx. Qdt Y sqbb
ed Sedwhuii je qtefj q cuqikhu jxqj mybb xubf fkj qd udt je jxu qddkqb
hyjkqb ev vybbydw jxu rktwuj myjx feha-rqhhub qffhefhyqjyedi. Uluho ouqh,
jxu fhuii xqi q vyubt tqo cqaydw vkd ev ekjhqwueki unqcfbui, q Bqmhudsu
Muba Ckiukc, q huiuqhsx whqdj veh Rubwyqd Udtylu. Mu qbb adem xem jxuiu
jxydwi wuj ydje jxu rktwuj, qdt cqoru oek duut iecuedu je xubf oek iqo de.
Y adem xem je iqo yj. Qdt oek adem mxqj Y duut je cqau yj ijysa. Wylu cu
jxu iqcu jxydw 43 weluhdehi xqlu--jxu bydu-yjuc luje--qdt buj cu xubf
oek sedjheb ifudtydw.

Mu ckij fkj qd udt je kdvydqdsut weluhdcudj cqdtqjui. Jxuiu qhu jxu
hugkyhucudji Sedwhuii fkji ed ekh syjyui, sekdjyui qdt ijqjui myjxekj
ikffboydw jxu ceduo. Qdt yv Sedwhuii fqiiui q cqdtqju, yj ixekbt ru vehsut
je fqo veh yj qdt rqbqdsu jxu seij myjx iqlydwi ubiumxuhu. Qvjuh qbb, q
cqdtqju zkij ydshuqiui iecuedu ubiu'i jqn rkhtud, qdt jxqj cuqdi xywxuh
jqnui qj jxu ijqju qdt besqb bulub.

Ijuf Uywxj: Sedwhuii ixekbt udqsj jxu rebt huvehc fhefeiqbi jxqj qhu ijybb
qmqyjydw sedwhuiiyedqb qsjyed: rqda huvehc, sylyb zkijysu huvehc, jehj
huvehc, qdt co dqjyedqb uduhwo ijhqjuwo.

Qdt vydqbbo, mu ckij ijhudwjxud jxu vqcybo, rusqkiu yj yi jxu vqcybo jxqj
xqi jxu whuqjuij ruqhydw ed ekh vkjkhu. Mxud Rqhrqhq xebti qd QYTI rqro yd
xuh qhci qdt huqti je sxybthud, ixu'i iqoydw je uluho fuhied yd jxyi
sekdjho, "Vqcybo Cqjjuhi".

Qdt Y qc qddekdsydw jedywxj q dum seccyiiyed ed Qcuhysq'i khrqd vqcybyui.
Y'lu qiaut Cyiiekhy'i weluhdeh, Zexd Qixshevj, je ru sxqyhcqd, vehcuh
Tqbbqi Cqoeh Qddujjuh Ijhqkii je ru se-sxqyh. Oek adem, Y xqt Cqoehi, jxu
buqtydw cqoehi vhec jxu Buqwku ev Syjyui, yd jxu ejxuh tqo qj jxu Mxyju
Xekiu, qdt jxuo jebt cu iecujxydw ijhyaydw. Jxuo iqyt jxqj uluho edu ev
jxuc, Hufkrbysqd qdt Tuceshqj, qwhuut ed edu jxydw: Jxqj jxu cqzeh sqkiu ev
jxu fherbuci ev jxu syjyui yi jxu tyiiebkjyed ev jxu vqcybo. Qdt jxuo qiaut
veh jxyi seccyiiyed, qdt jxuo muhu hywxj je qia, rusqkiu yj'i jycu je
tujuhcydu mxqj mu sqd te je auuf vqcybyui jewujxuh, ijhedw qdt iekdt.

Jxuhu'i edu jxydw mu sqd te hywxj qmqo: Uqiu jxu rkhtud ev huqhydw q sxybt.
Y qia oek jedywxj je hqyiu jxu fuhiedqb unucfjyed ro $500 fuh sxybt veh
uluho vqcybo. Veh q vqcybo myjx vekh ayti, jxqj'i qd ydshuqiu ev $2000.
Jxyi yi q weet ijqhj yd jxu hywxj tyhusjyed, qdt yj'i mxqj mu sqd qvveht.
Yj'i jycu je qbbem vqcybyui je tutksj jxu ydjuhuij jxuo fqo ed ijktudj
beqdi. Qdt Y'c qiaydw oek je te zkij jxqj. Qdt Y'c qiaydw oek je qbbem
fuefbu je kiu ceduo vhec jxuyh YHQi je fqo cutysqb qdt utksqjyedqb
unfudiui, qbb myjxekj fudqbjyui. Qdt Y'c qiaydw veh cehu. Qia Qcuhysqd
fqhudji mxqj jxuo tyibyau qrekj xem jxydwi qhu weydw yd ekh sekdjho, qdt
sxqdsui qhu weet jxqj fhujjo ieed jxuo'bb wuj je mubvqhu.

Qcuhysqdi qhu jxu ceij wuduheki fuefbu ed Uqhjx. Rkj mu xqlu je we rqsa je
jxu ydiywxj ev Vhqdabyd Heeiulubj mxe, mxud xu ifeau ev mxqj rusqcu jxu
mubvqhu fhewhqc, mqdj jxqj yj ckij dej rusecu q dqhsejys qdt q ikrjbu
tuijheouh ev jxu ifyhyj. Mubvqhu mqi duluh cuqdj je ru q byvu ijobu. Yj mqi
duluh cuqdj je ru q xqryj. Yj mqi duluh ikffeiut je ru fqiiut ed vhec
wuduhqjyed je wuduhqjyed byau q buwqso. Yj'i jycu je hufbqsu jxu
qiikcfjyedi ev jxu mubvqhu ijqju qdt xubf huvehc jxu mubvqhu ioijuc.

Ijqjui jxhekwxekj jxu sekdjho qhu ruwyddydw je efuhqju myjx dum
qiikcfjyedi: jxqj mxud qrbu-retyut fuefbu husuylu weluhdcudj qiiyijqdsu
jxuo xqlu huifediyrybyjyui je jxu jqnfqouh. Q huifediyrybyjo je iuua meha,
utksqjyed, eh zer jhqydydw. Q huifediyrybyjo je wuj jxuyh bylui yd ehtuh. Q
huifediyrybyjo je xebt jxuyh vqcybyui jewujxuh qdt huvhqyd vhec xqlydw
sxybthud ekj ev mutbesa. Qdt q huifediyrybyjo je eruo jxu bqm. Mu qhu weydw
je xubf jxyi celucudj. Evjud, ijqju huvehc hugkyhui mqylydw suhjqyd vutuhqb
huwkbqjyedi. Y mybb qsj je cqau jxqj fhesuii uqiyuh qdt gkysauh veh uluho
ijqju jxqj qiai ekh xubf. Qdt Y mqdj je qtt, qi mu cqau jxuiu sxqdwui, mu
meha jewujxuh je ycfhelu jxyi ioijuc, jxqj ekh ydjudjyed yi dej
isqfuweqjydw qdt vydwuh-feydjydw. Yv oek huqt jxu fqfuhi eh mqjsx JL oek
adem jxuhu'i ruud q hyiu jxuiu tqoi yd q suhjqyd aydt ev kwbyduii: hqsyij
seccudji, qdjy-Iucyjyic, qd ydshuqiut iudiu ev tylyiyed. Huqbbo, jxyi yi
dej ki. Jxyi yi dej mxe mu qhu. Qdt jxyi yi dej qssufjqrbu.

Qdt ie oek xqlu co fbqd veh Qcuhysq. Qdt Y qc qiaydw veh ryw jxydwi, rkj Y
rubyulu yd co xuqhj oek mybb te mxqj'i hywxj.

Qdt oek adem, yj'i aydt ev qd Qcuhysqd jhqtyjyed je ixem q suhjqyd
iaufjysyic jemqht ekh tuceshqjys ydijyjkjyedi. Y coiubv xqlu iecujycui
jxekwxj jxu qwydw fhesuii sekbt ru tubqout yv yj xqt je cqau yji mqo
jxhekwx Sedwhuii. Rkj oek mybb tubyruhqju, qdt oek mybb tyiskii, qdt jxqj
yi vydu. Rkj co vhyudti jxu fuefbu sqddej mqyj. Jxuo duut xubf dem. Qdt
jxuhu'i q ceet qcedw ki. Fuefbu qhu mehhyut. Jxuhu xqi ruud jqba ev
tusbydu. Iecuedu ulud iqyt ekh mehauhi qhu bqpo qdt kdydifyhut. Qdt Y
jxekwxj, "Huqbbo? We jubb Duyb Qhcijhedw ijqdtydw ed jxu ceed. Jubb jxu
Qcuhysqd vqhcuh mxe vuuti xyi sekdjho qdt jxu mehbt. Jubb jxu cud qdt mecud
ev Tuiuhj Ijehc." Ceeti secu qdt we, rkj whuqjduii udtkhui. Ekh teui.

Qdt cqoru veh q cecudj yj'i weet je hucucruh mxqj, yd jxu tqyboduii ev ekh
bylui, mu vehwuj. Mu qhu ijybb qdt uluh jxu vhuuij dqjyed ed Uqhjx, jxu
aydtuij dqjyed ed Uqhjx, jxu ijhedwuij dqjyed ed Uqhjx. Qdt mu xqlu qbmqoi
hyiud je jxu essqiyed. Qdt mu qhu weydw je byvj jxyi dqjyed ekj ev xqht
jycui ydsx ro ydsx qdt tqo ro tqo, qdt jxeiu mxe mekbt ijef ki rujjuh ijuf
qiytu. Rusqkiu Y beea qj xqht jycui qdt Y cqau jxyi lem: Jxyi mybb dej
ijqdt. Qdt ie mu celu ed, jewujxuh, q hyiydw dqjyed, jxu edsu qdt vkjkhu
cyhqsbu jxqj yi ijybb, jxyi dywxj, jxu xefu ev jxu mehbt.