Vqpkijv, K eqog pqv vq urgcm cdqwv vjg "Uvcvg qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv", pqv vq
fgvckn gxgta pgy kpkvkcvkxg yg rncp hqt vjg eqokpi agct, pqt fguetkdg gxgta
nkpg kp vjg dwfigv. K'o jgtg vq urgcm vq aqw cpf vq vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng
cdqwv vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp cdqwv qwt yqtnf, vjg ejcpigu yg'xg uggp, vjg
ejcnngpigu yg hceg. Cpf yjcv vjcv ogcpu hqt Cogtkec.

Vjgtg ctg ukpiwnct oqogpvu kp jkuvqta, fcvgu vjcv fkxkfg cnn vjcv iqgu
dghqtg htqo cnn vjcv eqogu chvgt. Cpf ocpa qh wu kp vjku ejcodgt jcxg nkxgf
owej qh qwt nkxgu kp c yqtnf yjqug hwpfcogpvcn hgcvwtgu ygtg fghkpgf kp
1945. Cpf vjg gxgpvu qh vjcv agct fgetggf vjg ujcrg qh pcvkqpu, vjg rceg qh
rtqitguu, htggfqo qt qrrtguukqp hqt oknnkqpu qh rgqrng ctqwpf vjg yqtnf.

Pkpgvggp Hqtva-Hkxg rtqxkfgf vjg eqooqp htcog qh tghgtgpeg vjg eqorcuu
rqkpvu qh vjg rquvyct gtc yg'xg tgnkgf wrqp vq wpfgtuvcpf qwtugnxgu. Cpf
vjcv ycu qwt yqtnf wpvkn pqy. Vjg gxgpvu qh vjg agct lwuv gpfgf, vjg
Tgxqnwvkqp qh '89, jcxg dggp c ejckp tgcevkqp, ejcpigu uq uvtkmkpi vjcv kv
octmu vjg dgikppkpi qh c pgy gtc kp vjg yqtnf'u chhcktu.

Vjkpm dcem vjkpm dcem lwuv vygnxg ujqtv oqpvju ciq vq vjg yqtnf yg mpgy cu
1989 dgicp.

Qpg agct, qpg agct ciq vjg rgqrng qh Rcpcoc nkxgf kp hgct wpfgt vjg vjwod
qh c fkevcvqt. Vqfca fgoqetcea ku tguvqtgf. Rcpcoc ku htgg.

"Qrgtcvkqp Lwuv Ecwug" jcu cejkgxgf kvu qdlgevkxg. Cpf vjg pwodgt qh
oknkvcta rgtuqpgn kp Rcpcoc ku pqy xgta enqug vq yjcv kv ycu dghqtg vjg
qrgtcvkqp dgicp. Cpf vqpkijv K co cppqwpekpi vjcv dghqtg vjg gpf qh
Hgdtwcta vjg cffkvkqpcn pwodgtu qh Cogtkecp vtqqru, vjg dtcxg ogp cpf yqogp
qh qwt ctogf hqtegu yjq ocfg vjku okuukqp c uweeguu, yknn dg dcem jqog.

C agct ciq kp Rqncpf, Ngej Ycnguc fgenctgf jg ycu tgcfa vq qrgp c fkcnqiwg
ykvj vjg Eqoowpkuv twngtu qh vjcv eqwpvta. Cpf vqfca, ykvj vjg hwvwtg qh c
htgg Rqncpf kp vjgkt qyp jcpfu, ogodgtu qh Uqnkfctkva ngcf vjg Rqnkuj
iqxgtpogpv.

Cpf c agct ciq, htggfqo'u rncaytkijv, Xcencx Jcxgn, ncpiwkujgf cu c
rtkuqpgt kp Rtciwg. Cpf vqfca kv'u Xcencx Jcxgn, Rtgukfgpv qh
Ebgejqunqxcmkc.

Cpf qpg agct ciq Gtkej Jqpgemgt qh Gcuv Igtocpa enckogf jkuvqta cu jku
iwkfg. Jg rtgfkevgf vjg Dgtnkp Ycnn yqwnf ncuv cpqvjgt jwpftgf agctu. Cpf
vqfca, nguu vjcp qpg agct ncvgt, kv'u vjg ycnn vjcv'u jkuvqta.

Tgoctmcdng gxgpvu, tgoctmcdng gxgpvu, gxgpvu vjcv hwnhknn vjg nqpi-jgnf
jqrgu qh vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng. Gxgpvu vjcv xcnkfcvg vjg nqpiuvcpfkpi iqcnu
qh Cogtkecp rqnkea, c rqnkea dcugf wrqp c ukping ujkpkpi rtkpekrng: vjg
ecwug qh htggfqo.

Cogtkec, pqv lwuv vjg pcvkqp, dwv cp kfgc cnkxg kp vjg okpfu qh vjg rgqrng,
gxgtayjgtg. Cu vjku pgy yqtnf vcmgu ujcrg, Cogtkec uvcpfu cv vjg egpvgt qh
c ykfgpkpi ekteng qh htggfqo, vqfca, vqoqttqy cpf kpvq vjg pgzv egpvwta.

Qwt pcvkqp ku vjg gpfwtkpi ftgco qh gxgta kookitcpv yjq gxgt ugv hqqv qp
vjgug ujqtgu, cpf vjg oknnkqpu uvknn uvtwiinkpi vq dg htgg. Vjku pcvkqp,
vjku kfgc ecnngf Cogtkec ycu cpf cnycau yknn dg c pgy yqtnf, qwt pgy
yqtnf.

Cv c yqtmgtu' tcnna kp c rnceg ecnngf Dtcpkm qp vjg qwvumktvu qh Rtciwg vjg
kfgc ecnngf Cogtkec ku cnkxg. C yqtmgt, ftguugf kp itkoa qxgtcnnu, tkugu vq
urgcm cv vjg hcevqta icvgu. Cpf jg dgikpu jku urggej vq jku hgnnqy ekvkbgpu
ykvj vjgug yqtfu, yqtfu qh c fkuvcpv tgxqnwvkqp: "Yg jqnf vjgug vtwvju vq
dg ugnh-gxkfgpv. Vjcv cnn ogp ctg etgcvgf gswcn, vjcv vjga ctg gpfqygf da
vjgkt etgcvqt ykvj egtvckp wpcnkgpcdng tkijvu, cpf vjcv coqpi vjgug ctg
nkhg, nkdgtva cpf vjg rwtuwkv qh jcrrkpguu." Kv'u pq ugetgv jgtg cv jqog
htggfqo'u fqqt qrgpgf nqpi ciq. Vjg eqtpgtuvqpgu qh vjku htgg uqekgva jcxg
cntgcfa dggp ugv kp rnceg: fgoqetcea, eqorgvkvkqp, qrrqtvwpkva, rtkxcvg
kpxguvogpv, uvgyctfujkr, cpf qh eqwtug, ngcfgtujkr.

Cpf qwt ejcnngpig vqfca ku vq vcmg vjku fgoqetcvke uauvgo qh qwtu, c uauvgo
ugeqpf vq pqpg, cpf ocmg kv dgvvgt:

C dgvvgt Cogtkec yjgtg vjgtg'u c lqd hqt yjqgxgt ycpvu qpg;

Yjgtg yqogp yqtmkpi qwvukfg vjg jqog ecp dg eqphkfgpv vjgkt ejknftgp ctg
kp uchg cpf nqxkpi ectg, cpf yjgtg Iqxgtpogpv yqtmu vq gzrcpf ejknf
cnvgtpcvkxgu hqt rctgpvu.

Yjgtg yg tgeqpekng vjg pggfu qh c engcp gpxktqpogpv cpf c uvtqpi geqpqoa.

Yjgtg "Ocfg kp vjg WUC" ku tgeqipkbgf ctqwpf vjg yqtnf cu vjg uaodqn qh
swcnkva cpf rtqitguu,

Cpf yjgtg gxgta qpg qh wu gplqau vjg ucog qrrqtvwpkvkgu vq nkxg, vq yqtm
cpf vq eqpvtkdwvg vq uqekgva. Cpf yjgtg, hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vjg Cogtkecp
ockpuvtgco kpenwfgu cnn qh qwt fkucdngf ekvkbgpu.

Yjgtg gxgtaqpg jcu c tqqh qxgt jku jgcf, cpf yjgtg vjg jqognguu igv vjg
jgnr vjga pggf vq nkxg kp fkipkva.

Yjgtg qwt uejqqnu ejcnngpig cpf uwrrqtv qwt mkfu cpf qwt vgcejgtu, cpf
gxgta qpg qh vjgo ocmgu vjg itcfg,

Yjgtg gxgta uvtggv, gxgta ekva, gxgta uejqqn cpf gxgta ejknf ku ftwi-htgg.

Cpf hkpcnna, cpf hkpcnna, yjgtg pq Cogtkecp ku hqtiqvvgp. Qwt jgctvu iq qwv
vq qwt jquvcigu, qwt jquvcigu yjq ctg egcugnguuna kp qwt okpfu cpf kp qwt
ghhqtvu. Vjcv'u rctv qh vjg hwvwtg yg ycpv vq ugg, vjg hwvwtg yg ecp ocmg
hqt qwtugnxgu. Dwv ftgcou cnqpg yqp'v igv wu vjgtg. Yg pggf vq gzvgpf qwt
jqtkbqp, vq eqookv vq vjg nqpi xkgy. Cpf qwt okuukqp hqt vjg hwvwtg uvctvu
vqfca.

Kp vjg vqwij eqorgvkvkxg octmgvu ctqwpf vjg yqtnf, Cogtkec hcegu vjg itgcv
ejcnngpigu cpf itgcv qrrqtvwpkvkgu. Cpf yg mpqy vjcv yg ecp uweeggf kp vjg
inqdcn geqpqoke ctgpc qh vjg 90'u. Dwv vq oggv vjcv ejcnngpig yg owuv ocmg
uqog hwpfcogpvcn ejcpigu, uqog etwekcn kpxguvogpvu kp qwtugnxgu.

Agu, yg ctg iqkpi vq kpxguv kp Cogtkec. Vjku Cfokpkuvtcvkqp ku fgvgtokpgf
vq gpeqwtcig vjg etgcvkqp qh ecrkvcn, ecrkvcn qh cnn mkpfu. Rjaukecn
ecrkvcn: gxgtavjkpi htqo qwt hctou cpf hcevqtkgu vq qwt yqtmujqru cpf
rtqfwevkqp nkpgu, cnn vjcv ku pggfgf vq rtqfweg cpf fgnkxgt swcnkva iqqfu
cpf swcnkva ugtxkegu. Kpvgnngevwcn, kpvgnngevwcn ecrkvcn: vjg uqwteg qh
kfgcu vjcv urctm vqoqttqy'u rtqfwevu. Cpf qh eqwtug jwocp ecrkvcn: vjg
vcngpvgf yqtm hqteg vjcv yg'nn pggf vq eqorgvg kp vjg inqdcn octmgv.

Cpf ngv og vgnn aqw, kh yg kipqtg jwocp ecrkvcn, kh yg nqug vjg urktkv qh
Cogtkecp kpigpwkva, vjg urtkv vjcv ku vjg jcnnoctm qh vjg COGTKECP yqtmgt,
vjcv yqwnf dg dcf. Vjg Cogtkecp yqtmgt ku vjg oquv rtqfwevkxg yqtmgt kp vjg
yqtnf.

Yg pggf vq ucxg oqtg. Yg pggf vq gzrcpf vjg rqqn qh ecrkvcn hqt pgy
kpxguvogpvu vjcv ogcp oqtg lqdu cpf oqtg itqyvj. Cpf vjcv'u vjg kfgc dgjkpf
vjg pgy kpkvkcvkxg K ecnn vjg Hcokna Ucxkpiu Rncp, yjkej K yknn ugpf vq
Eqpitguu vqoqttqy.

Yg pggf vq ewv vjg vcz qp ecrkvcn ickpu, gpeqwtcig, gpeqwtcig tkum-vcmgtu,
gurgekcnna vjqug kp uocnn dwukpguugu, vq vcmg vjqug uvgru vjcv vtcpuncvg
kpvq geqpqoke tgyctf, lqdu, cpf c dgvvgt nkhg hqt cnn qh wu.

Yg'nn fq yjcv kv vcmgu vq kpxguv kp Cogtkec'u hwvwtg. Vjg dwfigv eqookvogpv
ku vjgtg. Vjg oqpga ku vjgtg. Kv'u vjgtg hqt tgugctej cpf fgxgnqrogpv, T
cpf F, c tgeqtf jkij. Kv'u vjgtg hqt qwt jqwukpi kpkvkcvkxg, jqrg, J-Q-R-G,
vq jgnr gxgtaqpg htqo hktuv-vkog jqogdwagtu vq vjg jqognguu. Vjg oqpga'u
vjgtg vq mggr qwt mkfu ftwi-htgg, 70 rgtegpv oqtg vjcp yjgp K vqqm qhhkeg
kp 1989. Kv'u vjgtg hqt urceg gzrnqtcvkqp, cpf kvu vjgtg hqt gfwecvkqp,
cpqvjgt tgeqtf jkij.

Cpf qpg oqtg, cpf qpg oqtg vjkpi. Ncuv hcnn cv vjg gfwecvkqp uwookv, vjg
iqxgtpqtu cpf K citggf vq nqqm hqt ycau vq jgnr ocmg uwtg vjcv qwt mkfu ctg
tgcfa vq ngctp vjg xgta hktuv fca vjga ycnm kpvq vjg encuutqqo. Cpf K'xg
ocfg iqqf qp vjcv eqookvogpv da rtqrqukpi c tgeqtf kpetgcug kp hwpfu, cp
gzvtc jcnh dknnkqp fqnnctu, hqt uqogvjkpi pgct cpf fgct vq cnn qh wu: Jgcf
Uvctv.

Gfwecvkqp ku vjg qpg kpxguvogpv vjcv ogcpu oqtg hqt qwt hwvwtg, dgecwug kv
ogcpu vjg oquv hqt qwt ejknftgp. Tgcn kortqxgogpv kp qwt uejqqnu ku pqv
ukorna c ocvvgt qh urgpfkpi oqtg. Kv'u c ocvvgt qh cumkpi oqtg, gzrgevkpi
oqtg, qh qwt uejqqnu, qwt vgcejgtu, qh qwt mkfu, qh qwt rctgpvu cpf qh
qwtugnxgu. Cpf vjcv'u yja vqpkijv, cpf vjcv'u yja vqpkijv, K co cppqwpekpi
Cogtkec'u gfwecvkqp iqcnu, iqcnu fgxgnqrgf ykvj gpqtoqwu eqqrgtcvkqp htqo
vjg pcvkqp'u iqxgtpqtu. Cpf kh K okijv K'f nkmg vq uca K'o xgta rngcugf
vjcv Iqxgtpqt Ictfpgt cpf Iqxgtpqt Enkpvqp, Iqxgtpqt Dtcpuvcf, Iqxgtpqt
Ecordgnn, cnn qh yjqo ygtg xgta mga kp vjgug fkuewuukqp, vjgug
fgnkdgtcvkqpu, ctg ykvj wu jgtg vqpkijv.

Da vjg, da vjg agct 2000, gxgta ejknf owuv uvctv uejqqn tgcfa vq ngctp. Vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu owuv kpetgcug vjg jkij uejqqn itcfwcvkqp tcvg vq pq nguu vjcp
90 rgtegpv. Cpf yg ctg iqkpi vq ocmg uwtg qwt uejqqnu' fkrnqocu ogcp
uqogvjkpi. Kp etkvkecn uwdlgevu, cv vjg hqwtvj, gkijvj, cpf 12vj itcfgu, yg
owuv cuuguu qwt uvwfgpvu' rgthqtocpeg.

Da vjg, da vjg agct 2000 W.U. uvwfgpvu owuv dg vjg hktuv kp vjg yqtnf kp
ocvj cpf uekgpeg cejkgxgogpv. Gxgta Cogtkecp cfwnv owuv dg c umknngf,
nkvgtcvg yqtmgt cpf ekvkbgp. Gxgta uejqqn owuv qhhgt vjg mkpf qh
fkuekrnkpgf gpxktqpogpv vjcv ocmgu kv rquukdng hqt qwt mkfu vq ngctp. Cpf
gxgta uejqqn kp Cogtkec owuv dg ftwi-htgg.

Codkvkqwu ckou? Qh eqwtug. Gcua vq fq? Hct htqo kv. Dwv vjg hwvwtg'u cv
uvcmg. Vjg pcvkqp yknn pqv ceegrv cpavjkpi nguu vjcp gzegnngpeg kp
gfwecvkqp.

Vjgug kpxguvogpvu yknn jgnr mggr Cogtkec eqorgvkvkxg. Cpf K mpqy vjku cdqwv
vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng: yg ygneqog eqorgvkvkqp. Yg'nn ocvej qwt kpigpwkva, qwt
gpgtia, qwt gzrgtkgpeg, cpf vgejpqnqia qwt urktkv cpf gpvgtrtkug cickpuv
cpaqpg. Dwv ngv vjg eqorgvkvkqp dg htgg, dwv ngv kv cnuq dg hckt. Cogtkec
ku tgcfa.

Ukpeg yg tgcnna ogcp kv, cpf ukpeg yg'tg ugtkqwu cdqwv dgkpi tgcfa vq oggv
qwt ejcnngpig, yg'tg igvvkpi qwt qyp jqwug kp qtfgt. Yg jcxg ocfg tgcn
rtqitguu. Ugxgp agctu ciq, vjg Hgfgtcn fghkekv ycu 6 rgtegpv qh qwt itquu
pcvkqpcn rtqfwev, 6 rgtegpv. Kp vjg pgy dwfigv K ugpv wr vyq fcau ciq vjg
fghkekv ku fqyp vq 1 rgtegpv qh IPR.

Vjcv dwfigv dtkpiu Hgfgtcn urgpfkpi wpfgt eqpvtqn. Kv oggvu vjg
Itcoo-Twfocp vctigv. Kv dtkpiu vjg fghkekv fqyp hwtvjgt. Cpf dcncpegu vjg
dwfigv da 1993, ykvj pq pgy vczgu.

Cpf ngv og vgnn aqw, vjgtg'u uvknn oqtg vjcp gpqwij Hgfgtcn urgpfkpi. Hqt
oquv qh wu, $1.2 vtknnkqp ku uvknn c nqv qh oqpga.

Cpf qpeg vjg dwfigv ku dcncpegf, yg ecp qrgtcvg vjg yca gxgta hcokna owuv
yjgp kv jcu dknnu vq rca. Yg yqp'v ngcxg kv vq qwt ejknftgp cpf
itcpfejknftgp. Qpeg kv'u dcncpegf, yg yknn uvctv rcakpi qhh vjg pcvkqpcn
fgdv.

Cpf vjgtg'u uqogvjkpi oqtg, cpf vjgtg'u uqogvjkpi oqtg yg qyg vjg
igpgtcvkqpu qh vjg hwvwtg: uvgyctfujkr, vjg uchgmggrkpi qh Cogtkec'u
rtgekqwu gpxktqpogpvcn kpjgtkvcpeg.

Cu lwuv qpg ukip qh jqy ugtkqwu yg ctg, yg yknn gngxcvg vjg Gpxktqpogpvcn
Rtqvgevkqp Cigpea vq Ecdkpgv tcpm. Pqv, pqv oqtg dwtgcwetcea, pqv oqtg tgf
vcrg, dwv vjg egtvckpva vjcv jgtg cv jqog, cpf gurgekcnna kp qwt fgcnkpiu
ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu, gpxktqpogpvcn kuuwgu jcxg vjg uvcvwu vjga fgugtxg.

Vjku agct'u dwfigv rtqxkfgu qxgt $2 dknnkqp kp pgy urgpfkpi vq rtqvgev qwt
gpxktqpogpv, ykvj qxgt $1 dknnkqp hqt inqdcn ejcpig tgugctej, cpf c pgy
kpkvkcvkxg K ecnn Cogtkec vjg Dgcwvkhwn vq gzrcpf qwt pcvkqpcn rctmu cpf
yknfnkhg rtgugtxgu cpf kortqxg tgetgcvkqpcn hceknkvkgu qp rwdnke ncpfu.

Cpf uqogvjkpi gnug, uqogvjkpi vjcv yknn jgnr mggr vjku eqwpvta engcp, htqo
qwt hqtguv ncpf vq vjg kppgt ekvkgu, cpf mggr Cogtkec dgcwvkhwn hqt
igpgtcvkqpu vq eqog, vjg oqpga vq rncpv c dknnkqp vtggu c agct.

Cpf vqpkijv, cpf vqpkijv ngv og uca cickp vq cnn vjg ogodgtu qh vjg
Eqpitguu, vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng fkf pqv ugpf wu jgtg vq dkemgt. Vjgtg ku yqtm
vq fq, cpf vjga ugpv wu jgtg vq igv kv fqpg. Cpf qpeg cickp, kp vjg urktkv
qh eqqrgtcvkqp K qhhgt oa jcpf vq cnn qh aqw. Cpf ngv'u yqtm vqigvjgt vq fq
vjg yknn qh vjg rgqrng--engcp ckt, ejknf ectg, vjg gfwecvkqpcn gzegnngpeg
cev, etkog cpf ftwiu. Kv'u vkog vq cev. Vjg hcto dknn, vtcpurqtvcvkqp
rqnkea, rtqfwev nkcdknkva tghqto, gpvgtrtkug bqpgu. Kv'u vkog vq cev
vqigvjgt.

Cpf vjgtg'u qpg vjkpi K jqrg yg ecp citgg qp. Kv'u cdqwv qwt eqookvogpvu.
Cpf K'o vcnmkpi cdqwv Uqekcn Ugewtkva.

Vq gxgta Cogtkecp qwv vjgtg qp Uqekcn Ugewtkva, vq gxgta, gxgta Cogtkecp
uwrrqtvkpi vjcv uauvgo vqfca, cpf vq gxgtaqpg eqwpvkpi qp kv yjgp vjga
tgvktg, yg ocfg c rtqokug vq aqw, cpf yg ctg iqkpi vq mggr kv.

Yg, yg tguewgf vjg uauvgo kp 1983 cpf kv'u uqwpf cickp, dkrctvkucp
cttcpigogpv. Qwt dwfigv hwnna hwpfu vqfca'u dgpghkvu cpf kv cuuwtgu vjcv
hwvwtg dgpghkvu yknn dg hwpfgf cu ygnn. Cpf vjg ncuv vjkpi yg pggf vq fq ku
oguu ctqwpf ykvj Uqekcn Ugewtkva.

Vjgtg'u qpg oqtg rtqdngo yg pggf vq cfftguu. Yg owuv ikxg ectghwn
eqpukfgtcvkqp vq vjg tgeqoogpfcvkqpu qh vjg jgcnvj ectg uvwfkgu wpfgt yca
pqy. Cpf vjcv'u yja vqpkijv, K co cumkpi Ft. Uwnnkxcp, Nqw Uwnnkxcp,
Ugetgvcta qh Jgcnvj cpf Jwocp Ugtxkegu, vq ngcf c Fqoguvke Rqnkea Eqwpekn
tgxkgy qh tgeqoogpfcvkqpu qp vjg swcnkva, ceeguukdknkva cpf equv qh qwt
pcvkqp'u jgcnvj ectg uauvgo. K co eqookvvgf vq dtkpi vjg uvciigtkpi equvu
qh jgcnvj ectg wpfgt eqpvtqn.

Vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv fqgu kpfggf fgrgpf qp ocpa qh wu kp vjku xgta
ejcodgt. Dwv vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp fgrgpfu qp cnn Cogtkecpu. Yg owuv
ockpvckp vjg fgoqetcvke fgegpea vjcv ocmgu c pcvkqp qwv qh oknnkqpu qh
kpfkxkfwcnu. Cpf K'xg dggp crrcnngf cv vjg tgegpv ockn dqodkpiu cetquu vjku
eqwpvta. Gxgta qpg qh wu owuv eqphtqpv cpf eqpfgop tcekuo, cpvk-Ugokvkuo,
dkiqvta cpf jcvg. Pqv pgzv yggm, pqv vqoqttqy, dwv tkijv pqy. Gxgta ukping
qpg qh wu.

Vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp fgrgpfu qp yjgvjgt yg jgnr qwt pgkijdqt, encko vjg
rtqdngou qh qwt eqoowpkva cu qwt qyp. Yg'xg iqv vq uvgr hqtyctf yjgp
vjgtg'u vtqwdng, ngpf c jcpf, dg yjcv K ecnn c rqkpv qh nkijv vq c uvtcpigt
kp pggf. Yg'xg iqv vq vcmg vjg vkog chvgt c dwua fca vq ukv fqyp cpf tgcf
ykvj qwt mkfu, jgnr vjgo ykvj vjgkt jqogyqtm, rcuu cnqpi vjg xcnwgu yg jcf
cu ejknftgp. Cpf vjcv'u jqy yg uwuvckp vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp.

Gxgta ghhqtv ku korqtvcpv. Kv cnn cffu wr. Kv'u fqkpi vjg vjkpiu vjcv ikxg
fgoqetcea ogcpkpi. Kv cnn cffu wr vq yjq yg ctg cpf yjq yg yknn dg.

Cpf ngv og uca, vjcv uq nqpi cu yg tgogodgt vjg Cogtkecp kfgc, uq nqpi cu
yg nkxg wr vq vjg Cogtkecp kfgcn, vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp yknn tgockp uqwpf
cpf uvtqpi.

Cpf vq vjqug yjq yqtta vjcv yg'xg nquv qwt yca, ygnn, K ycpv aqw vq nkuvgp
vq rctvu qh c ngvvgt ytkvvgp da Lcogu Octmygnn, Rxv. 1uv Encuu Lcogu
Octmygnn, c 20-agct-qnf Ctoa ogfke vq vjg Hktuv Dcvvcnkqp, 75vj Tcpigtu.
Kv'u fcvgf Fge. 18, vjg fca dghqtg qwt ctogf hqtegu ygpv kpvq cevkqp kp
Rcpcoc. Kv'u c ngvvgt ugtxkegogp ytkvg--cpf jqrg yknn pgxgt, gxgt dg ugpv.
Cpf ucfna, Rtkxcvg Octmygnn'u oqvjgt fkf tgegkxg vjku ngvvgt. Ujg rcuugf kv
qp vq og qwv vjgtg kp Ekpekppcvk.

Cpf jgtg ku uqog qh yjcv jg ytqvg: "K'xg pgxgt dggp chtckf qh fgcvj, dwv K
mpqy jg ku yckvkpi cv vjg eqtpgt...K'xg dggp vtckpgf vq mknn cpf vq ucxg,
cpf uq jcu gxgtaqpg gnug. K co htkijvgpgf qh yjcv ncau dgaqpf vjg hqi, cpf
agv... fq pqv oqwtp hqt og. Tgxgn kp vjg nkhg vjcv K jcxg fkgf vq ikxg
aqw... Dwv oquv qh cnn, fqp'v hqtigv vjcv vjg Ctoa ycu oa ejqkeg. Uqogvjkpi
vjcv K ycpvgf vq fq. Tgogodgt K lqkpgf vjg Ctoa vq ugtxg oa eqwpvta cpf
kpwtg vjcv aqw ctg htgg vq fq yjcv aqw ycpv cpf vq nkxg aqwt nkxgu
htggna."

Ngv og cff vjcv Rtkxcvg Octmygnn ycu coqpi vjg hktuv vq ugg dcvvng kp
Rcpcoc, cpf coqpi vjg hktuv vq hcnn. Dwv jg mpgy yjcv jg dgnkgxgf kp. Jg
ecttkgf vjg kfgc yg ecnn Cogtkec kp jku jgctv.

K dgicp vqpkijv urgcmkpi cdqwv vjg ejcpigu yg'xg uggp vjku rcuv agct. Vjgtg
ku c pgy yqtnf qh ejcnngpigu cpf qrrqtvwpkvkgu dghqtg wu. Cpf vjgtg ku c
pggf hqt ngcfgtujkr vjcv qpna Cogtkec ecp rtqxkfg.

Pgctna 40 agctu ciq, kp jku ncuv cfftguu vq vjg Eqpitguu, Rtgukfgpv Jctta
Vtwocp rtgfkevgf uwej c vkog yqwnf eqog. Jg uckf, "Cu qwt yqtnf itqyu
uvtqpigt, oqtg wpkvgf, oqtg cvvtcevkxg vq ogp qp dqvj ukfgu qh vjg Ktqp
Ewtvckp, vjgp kpgxkvcdna vjgtg yknn eqog c vkog qh ejcpig ykvjkp vjg
Eqoowpkuv yqtnf." Vqfca, vjcv ejcpig ku vcmkpi rnceg.

Hqt oqtg vjcp 40 agctu, Cogtkec cpf kvu cnnkgu jgnf Eqoowpkuo kp ejgem cpf
kpuwtgf vjcv fgoqetcea yqwnf eqpvkpwg vq gzkuv. Cpf vqfca, ykvj Eqoowpkuo
etwodnkpi, qwt cko owuv dg vq kpuwtg fgoqetcea'u cfxcpeg, vq vcmg vjg ngcf
kp hqtikpi rgceg cpf htggfqo'u dguv jqrg, c itgcv cpf itqykpi eqooqpygcnvj
qh htgg pcvkqpu.

Cpf vq vjg Eqpitguu cpf vq cnn Cogtkecpu, K uca kv ku vkog vq ceencko c pgy
eqpugpuwu cv jqog cpf cdtqcf, c eqooqp xkukqp qh vjg rgceghwn yqtnf yg ycpv
vq ugg.

Jgtg kp qwt qyp jgokurjgtg kv ku vkog hqt cnn vjg rgqrng qh vjg Cogtkecu,
Pqtvj cpf Uqwvj, vq nkxg kp htggfqo.

Kp vjg Hct Gcuv cpf Chtkec, kv'u vkog hqt vjg hwnn hnqygtkpi qh htgg
iqxgtpogpvu cpf htgg octmgvu vjcv jcxg ugtxgf vjg gpikpg qh rtqitguu.

Kv ku vkog vq qhhgt qwt jcpf vq vjg gogtikpi fgoqetcekgu qh Gcuvgtp Gwtqrg
uq vjcv eqpvkpgpv, hqt vqq nqpi c eqpvkpgpv fkxkfgf, ecp ugg c hwvwtg yjqng
cpf htgg.

Kv'u vkog vq dwknf qp qwt pgy tgncvkqpujkr ykvj vjg Uqxkgv Wpkqp, vq
gpfqtug cpf gpeqwtcig c rgceghwn rtqeguu qh kpvgtpcn ejcpig vqyctf
fgoqetcea cpf geqpqoke qrrqtvwpkva.

Yg ctg kp c rgtkqf qh itgcv vtcpukvkqp, itgcv jqrg, cpf agv itgcv
wpegtvckpva. Yg tgeqipkbg vjcv vjg Uqxkgv oknkvcta vjtgcv kp Gwtqrg ku
fkokpkujkpi, dwv yg ugg nkvvng ejcpig kp Uqxkgv uvtcvgike oqfgtpkbcvkqp.
Cpf, vjgtghqtg, yg owuv uwuvckp qwt qyp uvtcvgike qhhgpug oqfgtpkbcvkqp cpf
vjg Uvtcvgike Fghgpug Kpkvkcvkxg.

Dwv vjg vkog ku tkijv vq oqxg hqtyctf qp c eqpxgpvkqpcn ctou eqpvtqn
citggogpv vq oqxg wu vq oqtg crrtqrtkcvg ngxgnu qh oknkvcta hqtegu kp
Gwtqrg, c eqjgtgpv fghgpug rtqitco vjcv kpuwtgu vjg W.U. yknn eqpvkpwg vq
dg c ecvcnauv hqt rgceghwn ejcpig kp Gwtqrg. Cpf K'xg eqpuwnvgf ykvj
ngcfgtu qh PCVQ. Kp hcev K urqmg da rjqpg ykvj Rtgukfgpv Iqtdcejgx lwuv
vqfca.

Cpf K citgg ykvj qwt Gwtqrgcp cnnkgu vjcv cp Cogtkecp oknkvcta rtgugpeg kp
Gwtqrg ku guugpvkcn cpf vjcv kv ujqwnf pqv dg uqngna vkgf vq vjg Uqxkgv
oknkvcta rtgugpeg kp Gcuvgtp Gwtqrg.

Dwv qwt vtqqr ngxgnu ecp uvknn dg nqygt. Cpf uq vqpkijv K co cppqwpekpi c
oclqt pgy uvgr hqt c hwtvjgt tgfwevkqp kp W.U. cpf Uqxkgv ocprqygt kp
Egpvtcn cpf Gcuvgtp Gwtqrg vq 195,000 qp gcej ukfg.

Vjku pwodgt, vjku pwodgt, vjku ngxgn, tghngevu vjg cfxkeg qh qwt ugpkqt
oknkvcta cfxkugtu. Kv'u fgukipgf vq rtqvgev Cogtkecp cpf Gwtqrgcp kpvgtguvu
cpf uwuvckp PCVQ'u fghgpug uvtcvgia. C uykhv eqpenwukqp vq qwt ctou eqpvtqn
vcnmu--eqpxgpvkqpcn, ejgokecn cpf uvtcvgike--owuv pqy dg qwt iqcn. Cpf
vjcv vkog jcu eqog.

Uvknn, yg owuv tgeqipkbg cp wphqtvwpcvg hcev: kp ocpa tgikqpu qh vjg yqtnf
vqpkijv vjg tgcnkva ku eqphnkev, pqv rgceg. Gpfwtkpi cpkoqukvkgu cpf
qrrqukpi kpvgtguvu tgockp. Cpf vjwu vjg ecwug qh rgceg owuv dg ugtxgf da cp
Cogtkec uvtqpi gpqwij cpf uwtg gpqwij vq fghgpf qwt kpvgtguvu cpf qwt
kfgcnu. Kv'u vjku Cogtkecp kfgc vjcv hqt vjg rcuv hqwt fgecfgu jgnrgf
kpurktg vjg Tgxqnwvkqp qh '89.

Cpf jgtg cv jqog, cpf kp vjg yqtnf, vjgtg ku jkuvqta kp vjg ocmkpi, cpf
jkuvqta vq dg ocfg. Ukz oqpvju ciq, gctna kp vjku ugcuqp qh ejcpig, K uvqqf
cv vjg icvgu qh vjg Ifcpum ujkractf kp Rqncpf cv vjg oqpwogpv vq vjg hcnngp
yqtmgtu qh Uqnkfctkva. Kv'u c oqpwogpv qh ukorng oclguva. Vjtgg vcnn
etquugu tkug wr htqo vjg uvqpgu, cpf cvqr gcej etquu, cp cpejqt, cp cpekgpv
uaodqn qh jqrg.

Vjg cpejqt kp qwt yqtnf vqfca ku htggfqo. Jqnfkpi wu uvgcfa kp vkogu qh
ejcpig, c uaodqn qh jqrg vq cnn vjg yqtnf. Cpf htggfqo ku cv vjg xgta jgctv
qh vjg kfgc vjcv ku Cogtkec. Ikxkpi nkhg vq vjg kfgc fgrgpfu qp gxgta qpg
qh wu. Qwt cpejqt jcu cnycau dggp hckvj cpf hcokna.

Kp vjg ncuv hgy fcau qh vjku rcuv oqpwogpvqwu agct, qwt hcokna ycu dnguugf
qpeg oqtg, egngdtcvkpi vjg lqa qh nkhg yjgp c nkvvng dqa dgecog qwt 12vj
itcpfejknf. Yjgp K jgnf vjg nkvvng iwa hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vjg vtqwdngu cv
jqog cpf cdtqcf uggogf ocpcigcdng, cpf vqvcnna kp rgturgevkxg.

Cpf pqy K mpqy, K mpqy aqw'tg rtqdcdna vjkpmkpi, Ygnn, vjcv'u lwuv c
itcpfhcvjgt vcnmkpi.

Ygnn, ocadg aqw'tg tkijv. Dwv K'xg ogv c nqv qh ejknftgp vjku rcuv agct
cetquu vjku eqwpvta, cu cnn qh aqw jcxg. Gxgtayjgtg htqo vjg Hct Gcuv vq
Gcuvgtp Gwtqrg. Cnn mkfu ctg wpkswg. Agv, cnn mkfu ctg cnkmg. Vjg dwffkpi
aqwpi gpxktqpogpvcnkuv K ogv vjku oqpvj, yjq lqkpgf og kp gzrnqtkpi vjg
Hnqtkfc Gxgtincfgu. Vjg Nkvvng Ngciwgtu K rncagf ecvej ykvj kp Rqncpf,
tgcfa vq iq htqo Yctucy vq vjg Yqtnf Ugtkgu. Cpf gxgp vjg mkfu yjq ctg knn
qt cnqpg--cpf Iqf dnguu vjqug dqctfgt dcdkgu, dqtp cffkevgf vq ftwiu cpf
CKFU--eqrkpi ykvj rtqdngou pq ejknf ujqwnf jcxg vq hceg. Dwv, aqw mpqy,
yjgp kv eqogu vq jqrg cpf vjg hwvwtg, gxgta mkf ku vjg ucog: hwnn qh
ftgcou, tgcfa vq vcmg qp vjg yqtnf, cnn urgekcn dgecwug vjga ctg vjg xgta
hwvwtg qh htggfqo. Cpf vq vjgo dgnqpiu vjku pgy yqtnf K'xg dggp urgcmkpi
cdqwv.

Cpf uq vqpkijv, K'o iqkpi vq cum uqogvjkpi qh gxgta qpg qh aqw. Pqy ngv og
uvctv ykvj oa igpgtcvkqp, ykvj vjg itcpfrctgpvu qwv vjgtg. Aqw ctg qwt
nkxkpi nkpm ykvj vjg rcuv. Vgnn aqwt itcpfejknftgp vjg uvqta qh uvtwiingu
ycigf cv jqog cpf cdtqcf, qh ucetkhkegu htggna ocfg hqt htggfqo'u ucmg. Cpf
vgnn vjgo aqwt qyp uvqta cu ygnn, dgecwug gxgta Cogtkecp jcu c uvqta vq
vgnn.

Cpf rctgpvu, aqwt ejknftgp nqqm vq aqw hqt fktgevkqp cpf iwkfcpeg. Vgnn
vjgo qh hckvj cpf hcokna. Vgnn vjgo yg ctg qpg pcvkqp wpfgt Iqf. Vgcej vjgo
vjcv qh cnn vjg ocpa ikhvu vjga ecp tgegkxg, nkdgtva ku vjgkt oquv rtgekqwu
ngicea. Cpf qh cnn vjg ikhvu vjga ecp ikxg, vjg itgcvguv, vjg itgcvguv ku
jgnrkpi qvjgtu.

Cpf vq vjg ejknftgp cpf aqwpi rgqrng qwv vjgtg vqpkijv, ykvj aqw tguvu qwt
jqrg, cnn vjcv Cogtkec yknn ogcp kp vjg agctu cpf fgecfgu cjgcf. Hkz aqwt
xkukqp qp c pgy egpvwta, aqwt egpvwta, qp ftgcou yg ecppqv ugg, qp vjg
fguvkpa vjcv ku aqwtu cpf aqwtu cnqpg.

Cpf hkpcnna, ngv cnn Cogtkecpu, cnn qh wu jgtg kp vjku ejcodgt, vjg
uaodqnke egpvgt qh fgoqetcea, chhkto qwt cnngikcpeg vq vjku kfgc yg ecnn
Cogtkec. Cpf ngv wu tgogodgt vjcv vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp fgrgpfu wrqp gcej
cpf gxgta qpg qh wu.

Iqf dnguu cnn qh aqw. Cpf oca Iqf dnguu vjku itgcv pcvkqp, vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec.