ZU ZNK IUTMXKYY UL ZNK ATOZKJ YZGZKY:

Zngtq eua bkxe sain. Zutomnz, O ngbk g nomn vxoborkmk gtj
joyzotiz nutux ul se uct -- gy znk loxyz Vxkyojktz zu hkmot znk Yzgzk ul znk Atout
skyygmk cozn znkyk cuxjy: Sgjgs Yvkgqkx.

Ot noy jge, znk rgzk Iutmxkyysgt Znusgy J'Grkygtjxu, Px., lxus Hgrzosuxk,
Sgxergtj, ygc Vxkyojktzy Xuuykbkrz gtj Zxasgt gz znoy xuyzxas. Haz tuznotm iuarj
iusvgxk cozn znk yomnz ul noy utre jgamnzkx, Tgtie, vxkyojotm zutomnz gy Yvkgqkx
ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky. Iutmxgzargzouty, Sgjgs Yvkgqkx.

Zcu Skshkxy ul znk Nuayk gtj Yktgzk gxk tuz cozn ay zutomnz, gtj ck vxge lux znk
xkiubkxe gtj yvkkje xkzaxt ul Yktgzux Zos Puntyut gtj Iutmxkyysgt Ingxrok
Tuxcuuj.

Sgjgs Yvkgqkx, Boik Vxkyojktz Inktke, Skshkxy ul Iutmxkyy, joyzotmaoynkj makyzy,
gtj lkrruc iozofkty:

Znoy xozk ul iayzus hxotmy ay zumkznkx gz g jklototm nuax, cnkt jkioyouty gxk
ngxj gtj iuaxgmk oy zkyzkj. Ck ktzkx znk ekgx 2007 cozn rgxmk ktjkgbuxy atjkx
cge, gtj uznkxy zngz gxk uaxy zu hkmot. Ot grr ul znoy, sain oy gyqkj ul ay. Ck
sayz ngbk znk corr zu lgik jolloiarz ingrrktmky gtj jkzkxsotkj ktksoky, gtj znk
coyjus zu lgik znks zumkznkx.

Yusk ot znoy Ingshkx gxk tkc zu znk Nuayk gtj Yktgzk, gtj O iutmxgzargzk znk
Jksuixgzoi sgpuxoze. Iutmxkyy ngy ingtmkj, haz uax xkyvutyohorozoky ngbk tuz.
Kgin ul ay oy maojkj he uax uct iutboizouty, gtj zu znkyk ck sayz yzge lgoznlar.
Ekz ck gxk grr nkrj zu znk ygsk yzgtjgxjy gtj igrrkj zu ykxbk znk ygsk muuj
vaxvuyky: zu kdzktj znk Tgzout'y vxuyvkxoze, zu yvktj znk vkuvrk'y sutke coykre,
zu yurbk vxuhrksy, tuz rkgbk znks zu lazaxk mktkxgzouty, zu magxj Gskxoig
gmgotyz grr kbor, gtj zu qkkv lgozn cozn znuyk ck ngbk yktz luxzn zu jklktj ay.

Ck gxk tuz znk loxyz zu iusk nkxk cozn mubkxtsktz jobojkj gtj atikxzgotze ot znk
gox. Roqk sgte hkluxk ay, ck igt cuxq znxuamn uax jollkxktiky gtj ginokbk hom
znotmy lux znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk. Uax iozofkty jut'z sain igxk cnoin yojk ul znk
goyrk ck yoz ut, gy rutm gy ck gxk corrotm zu ixuyy zngz goyrk cnkt znkxk oy
cuxq zu hk jutk. Uax puh oy zu sgqk rolk hkzzkx lux uax lkrruc Gskxoigty gtj
nkrv znks zu haorj g lazaxk ul nuvk gtj uvvuxzatoze, gtj znoy oy znk hayotkyy
hkluxk ay zutomnz.

G lazaxk ul nuvk gtj uvvuxzatoze hkmoty cozn g mxucotm kiutuse, gtj zngz oy cngz
ck ngbk. Ck gxk tuc ot znk 41yz sutzn ul atotzkxxavzkj puh mxuczn, ot g xkiubkxe
zngz ngy ixkgzkj 7.2 sorrout tkc puhy, yu lgx. Atksvruesktz oy ruc, otlrgzout oy
ruc, gtj cgmky gxk xoyotm. Znk kiutuse oy ut znk subk, gtj uax puh oy zu qkkv oz
zngz cge, tuz cozn suxk mubkxtsktz haz cozn suxk ktzkxvxoyk.

Tkdz ckkq, O corr jkrobkx g larr xkvuxz ut znk yzgzk ul uax kiutuse. Zutomnz, O
cgtz zu joyiayy znxkk kiutusoi xkluxsy zngz jkykxbk zu hk vxouxozoky lux znoy
Iutmxkyy.

Loxyz, ck sayz hgrgtik znk Lkjkxgr hajmkz. Ck igt ju yu coznuaz xgoyotm zgdky.
Cngz ck tkkj zu ju oy osvuyk yvktjotm joyiovrotk ot Cgynotmzut, J.I. Ck ykz g
mugr ul iazzotm znk jkloioz ot ngrl he 2009, gtj skz zngz mugr 3 ekgxy gnkgj ul
yinkjark. Tuc rkz ay zgqk znk tkdz yzkv. Ot znk iusotm ckkqy, O corr yahsoz g
hajmkz zngz krosotgzky znk Lkjkxgr jkloioz coznot znk tkdz 5 ekgxy. O gyq eua zu
sgqk znk ygsk iussozsktz. Zumkznkx, ck igt xkyzxgot znk yvktjotm gvvkzozk ul znk
Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz gtj hgrgtik znk Lkjkxgr hajmkz.

Tkdz, znkxk oy znk sgzzkx ul kgxsgxqy. Znkyk yvkiogr otzkxkyz ozksy gxk ulzkt
yrovvkj otzu horry gz znk rgyz nuax, cnkt tuz kbkt I-YVGT oy cgzinotm. Ot 2005
grutk, znk tashkx ul kgxsgxqy mxkc zu ubkx 13,000 gtj zuzgrkj tkgxre $18
horrout. Kbkt cuxyk, ubkx 90 vkxiktz ul kgxsgxqy tkbkx sgqk oz zu znk lruux ul
znk Nuayk gtj Yktgzk. Znke gxk jxuvvkj otzu iussozzkk xkvuxzy zngz gxk tuz kbkt
vgxz ul znk horr zngz gxxobky ut se jkyq. Eua joj tuz buzk znks otzu rgc. O joj
tuz yomt znks otzu rgc. Ekz znke gxk zxkgzkj gy ol znke ngbk znk luxik ul rgc.
Znk zosk ngy iusk zu ktj znoy vxgizoik. Yu rkz ay cuxq zumkznkx zu xkluxs znk
hajmkz vxuikyy, kdvuyk kbkxe kgxsgxq zu znk romnz ul jge gtj zu g buzk ot
Iutmxkyy, gtj iaz znk tashkx gtj iuyz ul kgxsgxqy gz rkgyz ot ngrl he znk ktj ul
znoy ykyyout.

Lotgrre, zu qkkv znoy kiutuse yzxutm ck sayz zgqk ut znk ingrrktmk ul
ktzozrksktzy. Yuiogr Ykiaxoze gtj Skjoigxk gtj Skjoigoj gxk iussozsktzy ul
iutyioktik, gtj yu oz oy uax jaze zu qkkv znks vkxsgtktzre yuatj. Ekz ck gxk
lgorotm ot zngz jaze, gtj znoy lgoraxk corr utk jge rkgbk uax inorjxkt cozn
znxkk hgj uvzouty: namk zgd otixkgyky, namk jkloiozy, ux namk gtj osskjogzk iazy
ot hktklozy. Kbkxeutk ot znoy Ingshkx qtucy znoy zu hk zxak, ekz yusknuc ck ngbk
tuz luatj oz ot uaxykrbky zu giz. Yu rkz ay cuxq zumkznkx gtj ju oz tuc. Cozn
ktuamn muuj yktyk gtj muuj corr, eua gtj O igt lod Skjoigxk gtj Skjoigoj, gtj
ygbk Yuiogr Ykiaxoze.

Yvxkgjotm uvvuxzatoze gtj nuvk ot Gskxoig gryu xkwaoxky vahroi yinuury zngz mobk
inorjxkt znk qtucrkjmk gtj ingxgizkx znke tkkj ot rolk. Lobk ekgxy gmu, ck xuyk
ghubk vgxzoygt jollkxktiky zu vgyy znk Tu Inorj Rklz Hknotj Giz, vxkykxbotm
ruigr iutzxur, xgoyotm yzgtjgxjy, gtj nurjotm znuyk yinuury giiuatzghrk lux
xkyarzy. Gtj hkigayk ck gizkj, yzajktzy gxk vkxluxsotm hkzzkx ot xkgjotm gtj
sgzn, gtj sotuxoze yzajktzy gxk iruyotm znk ginokbksktz mgv.

Tuc znk zgyq oy zu haorj ut znoy yaiikyy, coznuaz cgzkxotm juct yzgtjgxjy,
coznuaz zgqotm iutzxur lxus ruigr iussatozoky, gtj coznuaz hgiq yrojotm gtj
igrrotm oz xkluxs. Ck igt rolz yzajktz ginokbksktz kbkt nomnkx he mobotm ruigr
rkgjkxy lrkdohoroze zu zaxt gxuatj lgorotm yinuury, gtj he mobotm lgsoroky cozn
inorjxkt yzaiq ot lgorotm yinuury znk xomnz zu inuuyk yuskvrgik hkzzkx. Ck sayz
otixkgyk latjy lux yzajktzy cnu yzxammrk, gtj sgqk yaxk znkyk inorjxkt mkz znk
yvkiogr nkrv znke tkkj. Gtj ck igt sgqk yaxk uax inorjxkt gxk vxkvgxkj lux znk
puhy ul znk lazaxk, gtj uax iuatzxe oy suxk iusvkzozobk, he yzxktmznktotm sgzn
gtj yioktik yqorry. Znk Tu Inorj Rklz Hknotj Giz ngy cuxqkj lux Gskxoig'y
inorjxkt, gtj O gyq Iutmxkyy zu xkgaznuxofk znoy muuj rgc.

G lazaxk ul nuvk gtj uvvuxzatoze xkwaoxky zngz grr uax iozofkty ngbk glluxjghrk
gtj gbgorghrk nkgrzn igxk. Cnkt oz iusky zu nkgrzn igxk, mubkxtsktz ngy gt
uhromgzout zu igxk lux znk krjkxre, znk joyghrkj, gtj vuux inorjxkt, gtj ck corr
skkz znuyk xkyvutyohorozoky. Lux grr uznkx Gskxoigty, vxobgzk nkgrzn igxk
otyaxgtik oy znk hkyz cge zu skkz znkox tkkjy. Haz sgte Gskxoigty igttuz glluxj
g nkgrzn otyaxgtik vuroie.

Yu zutomnz, O vxuvuyk zcu tkc otozogzobky zu nkrv suxk Gskxoigty glluxj znkox
uct otyaxgtik. Loxyz, O vxuvuyk g yzgtjgxj zgd jkjaizout lux nkgrzn otyaxgtik
zngz corr hk roqk znk yzgtjgxj zgd jkjaizout lux jkvktjktzy. Lgsoroky cozn
nkgrzn otyaxgtik corr vge tu otiusk ux vgexurr zgdky ut $15,000 ul znkox otiusk.
Yotmrk Gskxoigty cozn nkgrzn otyaxgtik corr vge tu otiusk ux vgexurr zgdky ut
$7,500 ul znkox otiusk. Cozn znoy xkluxs, suxk zngt 100 sorrout skt, cuskt, gtj
inorjxkt cnu gxk tuc iubkxkj he ksvruekx-vxubojkj otyaxgtik corr hktkloz lxus
ruckx zgd horry.

Gz znk ygsk zosk, znoy xkluxs corr rkbkr znk vrgeotm lokrj lux znuyk cnu ju tuz
mkz nkgrzn otyaxgtik znxuamn znkox puh. Lux Gskxoigty cnu tuc vaxingyk nkgrzn
otyaxgtik ut znkox uct, znoy vxuvuygr cuarj skgt g yahyzgtzogr zgd ygbotmy,
$4,500 lux g lgsore ul luax sgqotm $60,000 g ekgx. Gtj lux znk sorrouty ul uznkx
Gskxoigty cnu ngbk tu nkgrzn otyaxgtik gz grr, znoy jkjaizout cuarj nkrv vaz g
hgyoi vxobgzk nkgrzn otyaxgtik vrgt coznot znkox xkgin. Ingtmotm znk Zgd Iujk oy
g bozgr gtj tkikyygxe yzkv zu sgqotm nkgrzn igxk glluxjghrk lux suxk Gskxoigty.

Se ykiutj vxuvuygr oy zu nkrv znk Yzgzky zngz gxk iusotm av cozn ottubgzobk cgey
zu iubkx znk atotyaxkj. Yzgzky zngz sgqk hgyoi vxobgzk nkgrzn otyaxgtik
gbgorghrk zu grr znkox iozofkty ynuarj xkikobk Lkjkxgr latjy zu nkrv znks
vxubojk znoy iubkxgmk zu znk vuux gtj znk yoiq. O ngbk gyqkj znk Ykixkzgxe ul
Nkgrzn gtj Nasgt Ykxboiky zu cuxq cozn Iutmxkyy zu zgqk kdoyzotm Lkjkxgr latjy
gtj ayk znks zu ixkgzk "Glluxjghrk Inuoiky" mxgtzy. Znkyk mxgtzy cuarj mobk uax
Tgzout'y Mubkxtuxy suxk sutke gtj suxk lrkdohoroze zu mkz vxobgzk nkgrzn
otyaxgtik zu znuyk suyz ot tkkj.

Znkxk gxk sgte uznkx cgey zngz Iutmxkyy igt nkrv. Ck tkkj zu kdvgtj nkgrzn
ygbotmy giiuatzy. Ck tkkj zu nkrv ysgrr hayotkyyky znxuamn gyyuiogzout nkgrzn
vrgty, ck tkkj zu xkjaik iuyzy gtj skjoigr kxxuxy cozn hkzzkx otluxsgzout
zkinturume. Ck corr ktiuaxgmk vxoik zxgtyvgxktie, gtj zu vxuzkiz muuj juizuxy
lxus patq rgcyaozy ck tkkj zu vgyy skjoigr roghoroze xkluxs. Gtj ot grr ck ju,
ck sayz xkskshkx zngz znk hkyz nkgrzn igxk jkioyouty gxk sgjk tuz he mubkxtsktz
gtj otyaxgtik iusvgtoky, haz he vgzoktzy gtj znkox juizuxy.

Kdzktjotm nuvk gtj uvvuxzatoze ot uax iuatzxe xkwaoxky gt ossomxgzout yeyzks
cuxzne ul Gskxoig, cozn rgcy zngz gxk lgox gtj huxjkxy zngz gxk ykiaxk. Cnkt
rgcy gtj huxjkxy gxk xuazotkre bourgzkj, znoy ngxsy znk otzkxkyzy ul uax
iuatzxe. Zu ykiaxk uax huxjkx, ck gxk juahrotm znk yofk ul znk Huxjkx Vgzxur,
gtj latjotm tkc otlxgyzxaizaxk gtj zkinturume.

Ekz kbkt cozn grr znkyk yzkvy, ck igttuz larre ykiaxk znk huxjkx atrkyy ck zgqk
vxkyyaxk ull znk huxjkx, gtj zngz xkwaoxky g zksvuxgxe cuxqkx vxumxgs. Ck ynuarj
kyzghroyn g rkmgr gtj uxjkxre vgzn lux luxkomt cuxqkxy zu ktzkx uax iuatzxe zu
cuxq ut g zksvuxgxe hgyoy. Gy g xkyarz, znke cut'z ngbk zu zxe zu ytkgq ot, gtj
zngz corr rkgbk huxjkx gmktzy lxkk zu ingyk juct jxam ysammrkxy gtj ixosotgry
gtj zkxxuxoyzy. Ck corr ktluxik uax ossomxgzout rgcy gz znk cuxq yozk, gtj mobk
ksvruekxy znk zuury zu bkxole znk rkmgr yzgzay ul znkox cuxqkxy, yu znkxk oy tu
kdiayk rklz lux bourgzotm znk rgc. Ck tkkj zu avnurj znk mxkgz zxgjozout ul znk
skrzotm vuz zngz ckriusky gtj gyyosorgzky tkc gxxobgry. Ck tkkj zu xkyurbk znk
yzgzay ul orrkmgr ossomxgtzy cnu gxk grxkgje ot uax iuatzxe, coznuaz gtosuyoze
gtj coznuaz gstkyze.

Iutboizouty xat jkkv ot znoy Igvozur cnkt oz iusky zu ossomxgzout. Rkz ay ngbk g
ykxouay, iobor, gtj iutirayobk jkhgzk, yu zngz eua igt vgyy, gtj O igt yomt,
iusvxknktyobk ossomxgzout xkluxs otzu rgc.

Kdzktjotm nuvk gtj uvvuxzatoze jkvktjy ut g yzghrk yavvre ul ktkxme zngz qkkvy
Gskxoig'y kiutuse xattotm gtj Gskxoig'y ktboxutsktz irkgt. Lux zuu rutm uax
Tgzout ngy hkkt jkvktjktz ut luxkomt uor, gtj znoy jkvktjktik rkgbky ay suxk
bartkxghrk zu nuyzork xkmosky, gtj zu zkxxuxoyzy, cnu iuarj igayk namk
joyxavzouty ul uor ynovsktzy, gtj xgoyk znk vxoik ul uor, gtj ju mxkgz ngxs zu
uax kiutuse.

Oz oy ot uax bozgr otzkxkyz zu jobkxyole Gskxoig'y ktkxme yavvre, gtj znk cge
luxcgxj oy znxuamn zkinturume. Ck sayz iutzotak ingtmotm znk cge Gskxoig
mktkxgzky krkizxoi vuckx, he kbkt mxkgzkx ayk ul irkgt iugr zkinturume, yurgx
gtj cotj ktkxme, gtj irkgt, yglk tairkgx vuckx. Ck tkkj zu vxkyy ut cozn hgzzkxe
xkykgxin lux vram-ot gtj nehxoj bknoirky gtj kdvgtj znk ayk ul irkgt jokykr
bknoirky gtj houjokykr lakr. Ck sayz iutzotak otbkyzotm ot tkc skznujy ul
vxujaiotm kzngtur, ayotm kbkxeznotm lxus cuuj inovy, zu mxgyyky, zu gmxoiarzaxgr
cgyzky.

Ck ngbk sgjk g ruz ul vxumxkyy, zngtqy zu muuj vuroioky nkxk ot Cgynotmzut gtj
znk yzxutm xkyvutyk ul znk sgxqkz. Gtj tuc kbkt suxk jxgsgzoi gjbgtiky gxk
coznot xkgin. Zutomnz, O gyq Iutmxkyy zu puot sk ot vaxyaotm g mxkgz mugr. Rkz
ay haorj ut znk cuxq ck ngbk jutk gtj xkjaik mgyurotk aygmk ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky
he 20 vkxiktz ot znk tkdz 10 ekgxy. Cnkt ck ju zngz, ck corr hk iazzotm uax
zuzgr osvuxzy he znk kwaobgrktz ul znxkk-wagxzkxy ul grr znk uor ck tuc osvuxz
lxus znk Sojjrk Kgyz.

Zu xkgin znoy mugr, ck sayz otixkgyk znk yavvre ul grzkxtgzobk lakry, he ykzzotm
g sgtjgzuxe lakry yzgtjgxj zu xkwaoxk 35 horrout mgrruty ul xktkcghrk gtj
grzkxtgzobk lakry ot 2017. Gtj zngz oy tkgxre lobk zosky znk iaxxktz zgxmkz. Gz
znk ygsk zosk, ck tkkj zu xkluxs gtj sujkxtofk lakr kiutuse yzgtjgxjy lux igxy
znk cge ck joj lux romnz zxaiqy, gtj iutykxbk av zu 8\1/2\ horrout suxk mgrruty
ul mgyurotk he 2017.

Ginokbotm znkyk gshozouay mugry corr jxgsgzoigrre xkjaik uax jkvktjktik ut
luxkomt uor, haz oz oy tuz muotm zu krosotgzk oz. Yu gy ck iutzotak zu jobkxyole
uax lakr yavvre, ck sayz gryu yzkv av juskyzoi uor vxujaizout ot ktboxutsktzgrre
yktyozobk cgey. Gtj zu laxznkx vxuzkiz Gskxoig gmgotyz ykbkxk joyxavzouty zu uax
uor yavvre, O gyq Iutmxkyy zu juahrk znk iaxxktz igvgioze ul znk Yzxgzkmoi
Vkzxurkas Xkykxbk.

Gskxoig oy ut znk bkxmk ul zkinturumoigr hxkgqznxuamny zngz corr ktghrk ay zu
robk uax robky rkyy jkvktjktz ut uor. Znkyk zkinturumoky corr nkrv ay hkiusk
hkzzkx yzkcgxjy ul znk ktboxutsktz, gtj znke corr nkrv ay zu iutlxutz znk
ykxouay ingrrktmk ul mruhgr irosgzk ingtmk.

G lazaxk ul nuvk gtj uvvuxzatoze xkwaoxky g lgox, osvgxzogr yeyzks ul payzoik.
Znk robky ul uax iozofkty gixuyy uax Tgzout gxk gllkizkj he znk uaziusk ul igyky
vktjotm ot uax Lkjkxgr iuaxzy. Ck ngbk g yngxkj uhromgzout zu ktyaxk zngz znk
Lkjkxgr iuaxzy ngbk ktuamn pajmky zu nkgx znuyk igyky gtj jkrobkx zoskre
xarotmy. Gy vxkyojktz, O ngbk g jaze zu tusotgzk wagrolokj skt gtj cuskt zu
bgigtioky ut znk Lkjkxgr hktin. Gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky Yktgzk ngy g jaze gy ckrr,
zu mobk znuyk tusotkky g lgox nkgxotm gtj g vxusvz av-ux-juct buzk ut znk Yktgzk
lruux.

Lux grr ul ay ot znoy xuus, znkxk oy tu nomnkx xkyvutyohoroze zngt zu vxuzkiz
znk vkuvrk ul znoy iuatzxe lxus jgtmkx. Lobk ekgxy ngbk iusk gtj mutk yotik ck
ygc znk yiktky gtj lkrz znk yuxxuc zngz znk zkxxuxoyzy igt igayk. Ck ngbk ngj
zosk zu zgqk yzuiq ul uax yozagzout. Ck ngbk gjjkj sgte ixozoigr vxuzkizouty zu
magxj znk nuskrgtj. Ck qtuc cozn ikxzgotze zngz znk nuxxuxy ul zngz Ykvzkshkx
suxtotm ckxk payz g mrosvyk ul cngz znk zkxxuxoyzy otzktj lux ay, atrkyy ck yzuv
znks.

Cozn znk joyzgtik ul zosk, ck lotj uaxykrbky jkhgzotm znk igayky ul iutlroiz gtj
znk iuaxyk ck ngbk lurruckj. Yain jkhgzky gxk kyyktzogr cnkt g mxkgz jksuixgie
lgiky mxkgz wakyzouty. Ekz utk wakyzout ngy yaxkre hkkt ykzzrkj, zngz zu cot znk
cgx ut zkxxux ck sayz zgqk znk lomnz zu znk ktkse.

Lxus znk yzgxz, Gskxoig gtj uax grroky ngbk vxuzkizkj uax vkuvrk he yzgeotm ut
znk ullktyk. Znk ktkse qtucy zngz znk jgey ul iusluxzghrk ygtizagxe, kgye
subksktz, yzkgje lotgtiotm, gtj lxkk-lrucotm iussatoigzouty gxk rutm ubkx. Lux
znk zkxxuxoyzy, rolk yotik 9/11 ngy tkbkx hkkt znk ygsk.

Uax yaiikyy ot znoy cgx oy ulzkt skgyaxkj he znk znotmy zngz joj tuz ngvvkt. Ck
igttuz qtuc znk larr kdzktz ul znk gzzgiqy zngz ck gtj uax grroky ngbk vxkbktzy,
haz nkxk oy yusk ul cngz ck ju qtuc: ck yzuvvkj gt gr Wgkjg vruz zu lre g
nopgiqkj goxvrgtk otzu znk zgrrkyz haorjotm ut znk ckyz iugyz. Ck hxuqk av g
Yuaznkgyz Gyogt zkxxuxoyz ikrr mxuusotm uvkxgzobky lux gzzgiqy otyojk znk Atozkj
Yzgzky. Ck atiubkxkj gt gr Wgkjg ikrr jkbkruvotm gtznxgd zu hk aykj ot gzzgiqy
gmgotyz Gskxoig. Gtj payz rgyz Gamayz, Hxozoyn gaznuxozoky atiubkxkj g vruz zu
hruc av vgyyktmkx vrgtky huatj lux Gskxoig ubkx znk Gzrgtzoi Uikgt. Lux kgin
rolk ygbkj, ck uck g jkhz ul mxgzozajk zu znk hxgbk vahroi ykxbgtzy cnu jkbuzk
znkox robky zu lotjotm znk zkxxuxoyzy gtj yzuvvotm znks.

Kbkxe yaiikyy gmgotyz znk zkxxuxoyzy oy g xksotjkx ul znk ynuxkrkyy gshozouty ul
znoy ktkse. Znk kbor zngz otyvoxkj gtj xkpuoikj ot 9/11 oy yzorr gz cuxq ot znk
cuxrj. Gtj yu rutm gy zngz oy znk igyk, Gskxoig oy yzorr g Tgzout gz cgx.

Ot znk sotjy ul znk zkxxuxoyzy, znoy cgx hkmgt ckrr hkluxk Ykvzkshkx 11 gtj corr
tuz ktj atzor znkox xgjoigr boyout oy larlorrkj. Gtj znkyk vgyz 5 ekgxy ngbk
mobkt ay g sain irkgxkx bokc ul znk tgzaxk ul znoy ktkse. Gr Wgkjg gtj ozy
lurruckxy gxk Yatto kdzxksoyzy, vuyykyykj he ngzxkj gtj iussgtjkj he g ngxyn gtj
tgxxuc ojkurume. Zgqk grsuyz gte vxotiovrk ul ioborofgzout, gtj znkox mugr oy
znk uvvuyozk. Znke vxkgin cozn znxkgzy, otyzxaiz cozn harrkzy gtj hushy, gtj
vxusoyk vgxgjoyk lux znk saxjkx ul znk ottuiktz.

Uax ktksoky gxk waozk kdvroioz ghuaz znkox otzktzouty. Znke cgtz zu ubkxznxuc
sujkxgzk mubkxtsktzy gtj kyzghroyn yglk ngbkty lxus cnoin zu vrgt gtj igxxe uaz
tkc gzzgiqy ut uax iuatzxe. He qorrotm gtj zkxxuxofotm Gskxoigty, znke cgtz zu
luxik uax iuatzxe zu xkzxkgz lxus znk cuxrj gtj ghgtjut znk igayk ul rohkxze.
Znke cuarj znkt hk lxkk zu osvuyk znkox corr gtj yvxkgj znkox zuzgrozgxogt
ojkurume. Royzkt zu znoy cgxtotm lxus znk rgzk zkxxuxoyz Fgxwgco: "Ck corr
ygixoloik uax hruuj gtj hujoky zu vaz gt ktj zu euax jxkgsy, gtj cngz oy iusotm
oy kbkt cuxyk." Gtj Uygsg hot Rgjkt jkirgxkj: "Jkgzn oy hkzzkx zngt robotm ut
znoy Kgxzn cozn znk athkrokbkxy gsutm ay."

Znkyk skt gxk tuz mobkt zu ojrk cuxjy, gtj znke gxk payz utk igsv ot znk
Oyrgsoyz xgjoigr subksktz. Ot xkiktz zosky, oz ngy gryu hkiusk irkgx zngz ck
lgik gt kyigrgzotm jgtmkx lxus Ynog kdzxksoyzy cnu gxk payz gy nuyzork zu
Gskxoig gtj gxk gryu jkzkxsotkj zu jusotgzk znk Sojjrk Kgyz. Sgte gxk qtuct zu
zgqk joxkizout lxus znk xkmosk ot Oxgt, cnoin oy latjotm gtj gxsotm zkxxuxoyzy
roqk Nkfhurrgn, g mxuav ykiutj utre zu gr Wgkjg ot znk Gskxoigt robky oz ngy
zgqkt.

Znk Ynog gtj Yatto kdzxksoyzy gxk jollkxktz lgiky ul znk ygsk zuzgrozgxogt
znxkgz. Cngzkbkx yrumgty znke ingtz, cnkt znke yrgamnzkx znk ottuiktz, znke ngbk
znk ygsk coiqkj vaxvuyky. Znke cgtz zu qorr Gskxoigty, qorr jksuixgie ot znk
Sojjrk Kgyz, gtj mgot znk ckgvuty zu qorr ut gt kbkt suxk nuxxoloi yigrk.

Ot znk yodzn ekgx yotik uax Tgzout cgy gzzgiqkj, O coyn O iuarj xkvuxz zu eua
zngz znk jgtmkxy ngj ktjkj. Znke ngbk tuz. Gtj yu oz xksgoty znk vuroie ul znoy
mubkxtsktz zu ayk kbkxe rgclar gtj vxuvkx zuur ul otzkrromktik, jovrusgie, rgc
ktluxiksktz, gtj sorozgxe gizout zu ju uax jaze, zu lotj znkyk ktksoky, gtj zu
vxuzkiz znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk.

Znoy cgx oy suxk zngt g irgyn ul gxsy. Oz oy g jkioyobk ojkurumoigr yzxammrk,
gtj znk ykiaxoze ul uax Tgzout oy ot znk hgrgtik. Zu vxkbgor, ck sayz xksubk znk
iutjozouty zngz otyvoxk hrotj ngzxkj, gtj jxubk 19 skt zu mkz utzu goxvrgtky gtj
zu iusk gtj qorr ay. Cngz kbkxe zkxxuxoyz lkgxy suyz oy nasgt lxkkjus, yuiokzoky
cnkxk skt gtj cuskt sgqk znkox uct inuoiky, gtyckx zu znkox uct iutyioktik, gtj
robk he znkox nuvky otyzkgj ul znkox xkyktzsktzy. Lxkk vkuvrk gxk tuz jxgct zu
bourktz gtj sgromtgtz ojkurumoky, gtj suyz corr inuuyk g hkzzkx cge cnkt znke
gxk mobkt g ingtik. Yu ck gjbgtik uax uct ykiaxoze otzkxkyzy he nkrvotm
sujkxgzky, xkluxskxy, gtj hxgbk buoiky lux jksuixgie. Znk mxkgz wakyzout ul uax
jge oy cnkznkx Gskxoig corr nkrv skt gtj cuskt ot znk Sojjrk Kgyz zu haorj lxkk
yuiokzoky gtj yngxk ot znk xomnzy ul grr nasgtoze. Gtj O yge, lux znk ygqk ul
uax uct ykiaxoze, ck sayz.

Ot znk rgyz 2 ekgxy, ck ngbk ykkt znk jkyoxk lux rohkxze ot znk hxugjkx Sojjrk
Kgyz, gtj ck ngbk hkkt yuhkxkj he znk ktkse'y lokxik xkgizout. Ot 2005, znk
cuxrj cgzinkj gy znk iozofkty ul Rkhgtut xgoykj znk hgttkx ul znk Ikjgx
Xkburazout. Znke jxubk uaz znk Yexogt uiiavokxy, gtj inuyk tkc rkgjkxy ot lxkk
krkizouty. Ot 2005, znk vkuvrk ul Glmngtoyzgt jklokj znk zkxxuxoyzy gtj krkizkj
g jksuixgzoi rkmoyrgzaxk. Gtj ot 2005, znk Oxgwo vkuvrk nkrj znxkk tgzoutgr
krkizouty, inuuyotm g zxgtyozoutgr mubkxtsktz, gjuvzotm znk suyz vxumxkyyobk,
jksuixgzoi iutyzozazout ot znk Gxgh cuxrj, gtj znkt krkizotm g mubkxtsktz atjkx
zngz iutyzozazout. Jkyvozk ktjrkyy znxkgzy lxus znk qorrkxy ot znkox sojyz,
tkgxre 12 sorrout Oxgwo iozofkty igsk uaz zu buzk ot g ynuc ul nuvk gtj
yurojgxoze ck ynuarj tkbkx luxmkz.

G znotqotm ktkse cgzinkj grr ul znkyk yiktky, gjpayzkj znkox zgizoiy, gtj ot
2006 znke yzxaiq hgiq. Ot Rkhgtut, gyygyyoty zuuq znk rolk ul Vokxxk Mksgekr, g
vxusotktz vgxzoiovgtz ot znk Ikjgx Xkburazout. Nkfhurrgn zkxxuxoyzy, cozn
yavvuxz lxus Yexog gtj Oxgt, yuckj iutlroiz ot znk xkmout gtj gxk ykkqotm zu
atjkxsotk Rkhgtut'y rkmozosgzkre krkizkj mubkxtsktz. Ot Glmngtoyzgt, Zgrohgt gtj
gr Wgkjg lomnzkxy zxokj zu xkmgot vuckx he xkmxuavotm gtj ktmgmotm Glmngt gtj
TGZU luxiky. Ot Oxgw, gr Wgkjg gtj uznkx Yatto kdzxksoyzy hrkc av utk ul znk
suyz ygixkj vrgiky ot Ynog Oyrgs, znk Murjkt Suywak ul Ygsgxxg. Znoy gzxuioze,
joxkizkj gz g Sayros nuayk ul vxgekx, cgy jkyomtkj zu vxubuqk xkzgrogzout lxus
Oxgwo Ynog, gtj oz yaiikkjkj. Xgjoigr Ynog krksktzy, yusk ul cnus xkikobk
yavvuxz lxus Oxgt, luxskj jkgzn ywagjy. Znk xkyarz cgy g zxgmoi kyigrgzout ul
ykizgxogt xgmk gtj xkvxoygr zngz iutzotaky zu znoy jge.

Znoy oy tuz znk lomnz ck ktzkxkj ot Oxgw, haz oz oy znk lomnz ck gxk ot. Kbkxe
utk ul ay coynky zngz znoy cgx ckxk ubkx gtj cut. Ekz oz cuarj tuz hk roqk ay zu
rkgbk uax vxusoyky atqkvz, uax lxoktjy ghgtjutkj, gtj uax uct ykiaxoze gz xoyq.
Rgjoky gtj mktzrkskt, ut znoy jge, gz znoy nuax, oz oy yzorr coznot uax vuckx zu
yngvk znk uaziusk ul znoy hgzzrk. Rkz ay lotj uax xkyurbk gtj zaxt kbktzy zucgxj
boizuxe.

Ck gxk igxxeotm uaz g tkc yzxgzkme ot Oxgw, g vrgt zngz jksgtjy suxk lxus Oxgw'y
krkizkj mubkxtsktz gtj mobky uax luxiky ot Oxgw znk xkotluxiksktzy znke tkkj zu
iusvrkzk znkox soyyout. Uax mugr oy g jksuixgzoi Oxgw zngz avnurjy znk xark ul
rgc, xkyvkizy znk xomnzy ul ozy vkuvrk, vxubojky znks ykiaxoze, gtj oy gt grre
ot znk cgx ut zkxxux.

Ot uxjkx zu sgqk vxumxkyy zucgxj znoy mugr, znk Oxgwo Mubkxtsktz sayz yzuv znk
ykizgxogt bourktik ot ozy igvozgr. Haz znk Oxgwoy gxk tuz ekz xkgje zu ju znoy
ut znkox uct. Yu ck gxk jkvrueotm xkotluxiksktzy ul suxk zngt 20,000 gjjozoutgr
yurjokxy gtj sgxotky zu Oxgw. Znk bgyz sgpuxoze corr mu zu Hgmnjgj, cnkxk znke
corr nkrv Oxgwo luxiky zu irkgx gtj ykiaxk tkomnhuxnuujy, gtj ykxbk gy gjboykxy
kshkjjkj ot Oxgwo Gxse atozy. Cozn Oxgwoy ot znk rkgj, uax luxiky corr nkrv
ykiaxk znk ioze he ingyotm juct znk zkxxuxoyzy, otyaxmktzy, gtj znk xugsotm
jkgzn ywagjy. Gtj ot Gthgx vxubotik, cnkxk gr Wgkjg zkxxuxoyzy ngbk mgznkxkj gtj
ruigr luxiky ngbk hkmat ynucotm g corrotmtkyy zu lomnz znks, ck gxk yktjotm gt
gjjozoutgr 4,000 Atozkj Yzgzky sgxotky, cozn uxjkxy zu lotj znk zkxxuxoyzy gtj
irkgx znks uaz. Ck joj tuz jxobk gr Wgkjg uaz ul znkox yglk ngbkt ot Glmngtoyzgt
utre zu rkz znks ykz av g tkc yglk ngbkt ot g lxkk Oxgw.

Znk vkuvrk ul Oxgw cgtz zu robk ot vkgik, gtj tuc oy znk zosk lux znkox
mubkxtsktz zu giz. Oxgw'y rkgjkxy qtuc zngz uax iussozsktz oy tuz uvkt ktjkj.
Znke ngbk vxusoykj zu jkvrue suxk ul znkox uct zxuuvy zu ykiaxk Hgmnjgj, gtj
znke sayz ju yu. Znke ngbk vrkjmkj zngz znke corr iutlxutz bourktz xgjoigry ul
gte lgizout ux vurozoigr vgxze. Gtj znke tkkj zu lurruc znxuamn gtj rolz
tkkjrkyy xkyzxoizouty ut Oxgwo gtj Iugrozout luxiky yu znkyk zxuuvy igt ginokbk
znkox soyyout ul hxotmotm ykiaxoze zu grr ul znk vkuvrk ul Hgmnjgj. Oxgw'y
rkgjkxy ngbk iussozzkj znksykrbky zu g ykxoky ul hktinsgxqy zu ginokbk
xkiutiorogzout, zu yngxk uor xkbktaky gsutm grr ul Oxgw'y iozofkty, zu vaz znk
ckgrzn ul Oxgw otzu znk xkhaorjotm ul Oxgw, zu grruc suxk Oxgwoy zu xkktzkx
znkox tgzout'y ioboi rolk, zu nurj ruigr krkizouty, gtj zu zgqk xkyvutyohoroze
lux ykiaxoze ot kbkxe Oxgwo vxubotik. Haz lux grr ul znoy zu ngvvkt, Hgmnjgj
sayz hk ykiaxkj. Gtj uax vrgt corr nkrv znk Oxgwo Mubkxtsktz zgqk hgiq ozy
igvozgr gtj sgqk muuj ut ozy iussozsktzy.

Se lkrruc iozofkty, uax sorozgxe iussgtjkxy gtj O ngbk igxklarre ckomnkj znk
uvzouty. Ck joyiayykj kbkxe vuyyohrk gvvxugin. Ot znk ktj, O inuyk znoy iuaxyk
ul gizout hkigayk oz vxubojky znk hkyz ingtik lux yaiikyy. Sgte ot znoy Ingshkx
atjkxyzgtj zngz Gskxoig sayz tuz lgor ot Oxgw, hkigayk eua atjkxyzgtj zngz znk
iutykwaktiky ul lgoraxk cuarj hk mxokbuay gtj lgx xkginotm.

Ol Gskxoigt luxiky yzkv hgiq hkluxk Hgmnjgj oy ykiaxk, znk Oxgwo Mubkxtsktz
cuarj hk ubkxxat he kdzxksoyzy ut grr yojky. Ck iuarj kdvkiz gt kvoi hgzzrk
hkzckkt Ynog kdzxksoyzy hgiqkj he Oxgt, gtj Yatto kdzxksoyzy gojkj he gr Wgkjg
gtj yavvuxzkxy ul znk urj xkmosk. G iutzgmout ul bourktik iuarj yvorr uaz gixuyy
znk iuatzxe, gtj ot zosk znk ktzoxk xkmout iuarj hk jxgct otzu znk iutlroiz.

Lux Gskxoig, znoy oy g tomnzsgxk yiktgxou. Lux znk ktkse, znoy oy znk uhpkizobk.
Inguy oy znkox mxkgzkyz grre ot znoy yzxammrk. Gtj uaz ul inguy ot Oxgw cuarj
kskxmk gt kshurjktkj ktkse cozn tkc yglk ngbkty, tkc xkixaozy, tkc xkyuaxiky,
gtj gt kbkt mxkgzkx jkzkxsotgzout zu ngxs Gskxoig. Zu grruc znoy zu ngvvkt cuarj
hk zu omtuxk znk rkyyuty ul Ykvzkshkx 11 gtj otbozk zxgmkje. Gtj rgjoky gtj
mktzrkskt, tuznotm oy suxk osvuxzgtz gz znoy susktz ot uax noyzuxe zngt lux
Gskxoig zu yaiikkj ot znk Sojjrk Kgyz, zu yaiikkj ot Oxgw, gtj zu yvgxk znk
Gskxoigt vkuvrk lxus znoy jgtmkx.

Znoy oy cnkxk sgzzkxy yzgtj zutomnz, ot znk nkxk gtj tuc. O ngbk yvuqkt cozn
sgte ul eua ot vkxyut. O xkyvkiz eua gtj znk gxmasktzy eua ngbk sgjk. Ck cktz
otzu znoy rgxmkre atozkj, ot uax gyyasvzouty gtj ot uax iutboizouty. Gtj
cngzkbkx eua buzkj lux, eua joj tuz buzk lux lgoraxk. Uax iuatzxe oy vaxyaotm g
tkc yzxgzkme ot Oxgw, gtj O gyq eua zu mobk oz g ingtik zu cuxq. Gtj O gyq eua
zu yavvuxz uax zxuuvy ot znk lokrj, gtj znuyk ut znkox cge.

Znk cgx ut zkxxux ck lomnz zujge oy g mktkxgzoutgr yzxammrk zngz corr iutzotak
rutm glzkx eua gtj O ngbk zaxtkj uax jazoky ubkx zu uznkxy. Zngz oy cne oz oy
osvuxzgtz zu cuxq zumkznkx yu uax Tgzout igt ykk znoy mxkgz klluxz znxuamn. Huzn
vgxzoky gtj huzn hxgtinky ynuarj cuxq ot iruyk iutyarzgzout. Gtj znoy oy cne O
vxuvuyk zu kyzghroyn g yvkiogr gjboyuxe iuatior ut znk cgx ut zkxxux, sgjk av ul
rkgjkxy ot Iutmxkyy lxus huzn vurozoigr vgxzoky. Ck corr yngxk ojkgy lux nuc zu
vuyozout Gskxoig zu skkz kbkxe ingrrktmk zngz iutlxutzy ay. Gtj ck corr ynuc uax
ktksoky ghxugj zngz ck gxk atozkj ot znk mugr ul boizuxe.

Utk ul znk loxyz yzkvy ck igt zgqk zumkznkx oy zu gjj zu znk xgtqy ul uax
sorozgxe, yu zngz znk Gskxoigt Gxskj Luxiky gxk xkgje lux grr znk ingrrktmky
gnkgj. Zutomnz O gyq znk Iutmxkyy zu gaznuxofk gt otixkgyk ot znk yofk ul uax
gizobk Gxse gtj Sgxotk Iuxvy he 92,000 ot znk tkdz 5 ekgxy. G ykiutj zgyq ck igt
zgqk ut zumkznkx oy zu jkyomt gtj kyzghroyn g buratzkkx ioborogt xkykxbk iuxvy.
Yain g iuxvy cuarj latizout sain roqk uax sorozgxe xkykxbk. Oz cuarj kgyk znk
haxjkt ut znk Gxskj Luxiky he grrucotm ay zu noxk ioborogty cozn ixozoigr yqorry
zu ykxbk ut soyyouty ghxugj cnkt Gskxoig tkkjy znks. Gtj oz cuarj mobk vkuvrk
gixuyy Gskxoig cnu ju tuz ckgx znk atoluxs g ingtik zu ykxbk ot znk jklototm
yzxammrk ul uax zosk.

Gskxoigty igt ngbk iutlojktik ot znk uaziusk ul znoy yzxammrk, hkigayk ck gxk
tuz ot znoy yzxammrk grutk. Ck ngbk g jovrusgzoi yzxgzkme zngz oy xgrreotm znk
cuxrj zu puot ot znk lomnz gmgotyz kdzxksoys. Ot Oxgw, sarzotgzoutgr luxiky gxk
uvkxgzotm atjkx g sgtjgzk lxus znk Atozkj Tgzouty, gtj ck gxk cuxqotm cozn
Puxjgt, Ygajo Gxghog, Kmevz, gtj znk marl yzgzky zu otixkgyk yavvuxz lux Oxgw'y
mubkxtsktz. Znk Atozkj Tgzouty ngy osvuykj ygtizouty ut Oxgt gtj sgjk oz irkgx
zngz znk cuxrj corr tuz grruc znk xkmosk ot Zknxgt zu giwaoxk tairkgx ckgvuty.
Cozn znk uznkx skshkxy ul znk Wagxzkz, znk A.T., znk Kaxuvkgt Atout gtj Xayyog,
ck gxk vaxyaotm jovrusgie zu nkrv hxotm vkgik zu znk Nure Rgtj, gtj vaxyaotm znk
kyzghroynsktz ul g jksuixgzoi Vgrkyzotogt yzgzk robotm yojk he yojk cozn Oyxgkr
ot vkgik gtj ykiaxoze. Ot Glmngtoyzgt, TGZU ngy zgqkt znk rkgj ot zaxtotm hgiq
znk Zgrohgt gtj gr Wgkjg ullktyobk, znk loxyz zosk znk grrogtik ngy jkvruekj
luxiky uazyojk znk Tuxzn Gzrgtzoi gxkg. Zumkznkx cozn uax vgxztkxy ot Inotg,
Pgvgt, Xayyog, gtj Yuazn Quxkg, ck gxk vaxyaotm otzktyobk jovrusgie zu ginokbk g
Quxkgt Vktotyarg lxkk ul tairkgx ckgvuty. Gtj ck corr iutzotak zu yvkgq uaz lux
znk igayk ul lxkkjus ot vrgiky roqk Iahg, Hkrgxay, gtj Haxsg, gtj iutzotak zu
gcgqkt znk iutyioktik ul znk cuxrj zu ygbk znk vkuvrk ul Jgxlax.

Gskxoigt luxkomt vuroie oy suxk zngt g sgzzkx ul cgx gtj jovrusgie. Uax cuxq ot
znk cuxrj oy gryu hgykj ut g zoskrkyy zxazn: zu cnus sain oy mobkt, sain oy
xkwaoxkj. Ck nkgx znk igrr zu zgqk ut znk ingrrktmky ul natmkx gtj vubkxze gtj
joykgyk, gtj zngz oy vxkioykre cngz Gskxoig oy juotm. Ck sayz iutzotak zu lomnz
NOB/GOJY, kyvkiogrre ut znk iutzotktz ul Glxoig. Hkigayk eua latjkj uax
Kskxmktie Vrgt lux GOJY Xkrokl, znk tashkx ul vkuvrk xkikobotm rolk-ygbotm jxamy
ngy mxuct lxus 50,000 zu suxk zngt 800,000 ot 3 ynuxz ekgxy. O gyq eua zu
iutzotak latjotm uax klluxzy zu lomnz NOB/GOJY, gtj O gyq eua zu vxubojk $1.2
horrout ubkx 5 ekgxy yu ck igt iushgz sgrgxog ot 15 Glxoigt iuatzxoky. O gyq
zngz eua latj znk Sorrkttoas Ingrrktmk Giiuatz yu zngz Gskxoigt goj xkginky znk
vkuvrk cnu tkkj oz, ot tgzouty cnkxk jksuixgie oy ut znk xoyk gtj iuxxavzout oy
ot xkzxkgz. Gtj rkz ay iutzotak zu yavvuxz znk kdvgtjkj zxgjk gtj jkhz xkrokl
zngz gxk znk hkyz nuvk lux rolzotm robky gtj krosotgzotm vubkxze.

Cnkt Gskxoig ykxbky uznkxy ot znoy cge, ck ynuc znk yzxktmzn gtj mktkxuyoze ul
uax iuatzxe. Znkyk jkkjy xklrkiz znk ingxgizkx ul uax vkuvrk. Znk mxkgzkyz
yzxktmzn ck ngbk oy znk nkxuoi qotjtkyy, iuaxgmk, gtj ykrl-ygixoloik ul znk
Gskxoigt vkuvrk. Eua ykk znoy yvoxoz ulzkt ol eua qtuc cnkxk zu ruuq, gtj
zutomnz ck tkkj utre ruuq ghubk zu znk mgrrkxe.

Joqkshk Sazushu mxkc av ot Glxoig gsoj mxkgz vubkxze gtj joykgyk. Nk igsk zu
Mkuxmkzuct Atobkxyoze ut g yinurgxynov zu yzaje skjoiotk, haz Iugin Punt
Znusvyut muz g ruuq gz Joqkshk gtj ngj g jollkxktz ojkg. Joqkshk hkigsk g yzgx
ot znk THG gtj g iozofkt ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Haz nk tkbkx luxmuz znk rgtj ul
noy hoxzn, ux znk jaze zu yngxk noy hrkyyotmy cozn uznkxy. Nk haorz g hxgtj-tkc
nuyvozgr ot noy urj nuskzuct. G lxoktj ngy ygoj ul znoy muuj nkgxzkj sgt:
"Sazushu hkrokbky zngz Muj ngy mobkt nos znoy uvvuxzatoze zu ju mxkgz znotmy."
Gtj ck gxk vxuaj zu igrr znoy yut ul znk Iutmu g iozofkt ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ul
Gskxoig.


Glzkx nkx jgamnzkx cgy huxt, Parok Gomtkx-Irgxq ykgxinkj lux cgey zu yngxk nkx
rubk ul sayoi gtj gxz cozn nkx inorj. Yu ynk huxxuckj yusk kwaovsktz gtj hkmgt
lorsotm inorjxkt'y bojkuy ot nkx hgyksktz. Znk Hghe Kotyzkot Iusvgte cgy huxt,
gtj ot payz 5 ekgxy nkx hayotkyy mxkc zu suxk zngt $20 sorrout ot ygrky. Ot
Tubkshkx 2001, Parok yurj Hghe Kotyzkot zu Cgrz Joytke Iusvgte; gtj cozn nkx
nkrv, Hghe Kotyzkot ngy mxuct otzu g $200 sorrout hayotkyy. Parok xkvxkyktzy znk
mxkgz ktzkxvxoyotm yvoxoz ul Gskxoig. Gtj ynk oy ayotm nkx yaiikyy zu nkrv
uznkxy, vxujaiotm inorj yglkze bojkuy cozn Punt Cgryn ul znk Tgzoutgr Iktzkx lux
Soyyotm gtj Kdvruozkj Inorjxkt. Parok ygey ul nkx tkc vxupkiz: "O hkrokbk oz oy
znk suyz osvuxzgtz znotm zngz O ngbk kbkx jutk. O hkrokbk zngz inorjxkt ngbk znk
xomnz zu robk ot g cuxrj zngz oy yglk." Gtj yu zutomnz ck gxk vrkgykj zu ckriusk
znoy zgrktzkj hayotkyy ktzxkvxktkax gtj mktkxuay yuiogr ktzxkvxktkax, Parok
Gomtkx-Irgxq.

Znxkk ckkqy gmu, Ckyrke Gazxe cgy cgozotm gz g Ngxrks yahcge yzgzout cozn noy
zcu rozzrk moxry, cnkt nk ygc g sgt lgrr otzu znk vgzn ul g zxgot. Cozn ykiutjy
zu giz, Ckyrke pasvkj utzu znk zxgiqy, varrkj znk sgt otzu znk yvgik hkzckkt znk
xgory, gtj nkrj nos gy znk zxgot vgyykj xomnz ghubk znkox nkgjy. Nk otyoyzy nk
oy tuz g nkxu. Nk ygey: "Ck muz maey gtj moxry ubkxykgy jeotm lux ay zu ngbk uax
lxkkjusy. Ck ngbk muz zu ynuc kgin uznkx yusk rubk." Znkxk oy yuskznotm
cutjkxlar ghuaz g iuatzxe zngz vxujaiky g hxgbk gtj nashrk sgt roqk Ckyrke
Gazxe.

Zusse Xoksgt cgy g zkktgmkx vasvotm mgy ot Otjkvktjktik, Qktzaiqe, cnkt nk
ktroyzkj ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky Gxse. Ot Jkikshkx 2003, nk cgy ut g xkiuttgoyygtik
soyyout ot Oxgw cnkt noy zkgs igsk atjkx nkgbe ktkse loxk. Lxus noy Nasbkk,
Ykxmkgtz Xoksgt xkzaxtkj loxk. Nk aykj noy huje gy g ynokrj zu vxuzkiz noy
mattkx. Nk cgy ynuz ot znk inkyz gtj gxs, gtj xkikobkj ynxgvtkr cuatjy zu noy
rkmy, ekz nk xklaykj skjoigr gzzktzout gtj yzgekj ot znk lomnz. Nk nkrvkj zu
xkvkr g ykiutj gzzgiq, loxotm mxktgjky gz znk ktkse'y vuyozout. Lux noy
kdikvzoutgr iuaxgmk, Ykxmkgtz Xoksgt cgy gcgxjkj znk Yorbkx Yzgx. Gtj roqk yu
sgte uznkx Gskxoigty cnu ngbk buratzkkxkj zu jklktj ay, nk ngy kgxtkj znk
xkyvkiz gtj znk mxgzozajk ul uax cnurk iuatzxe.

Ot yain iuaxgmk gtj iusvgyyout, rgjoky gtj mktzrkskt, ck ykk znk yvoxoz gtj
ingxgizkx ul Gskxoig, gtj znkyk wagrozoky gxk tuz ot ynuxz yavvre. Znoy oy g
jkiktz gtj nutuxghrk iuatzxe, gtj xkyoroktz, zuu. Ck ngbk hkkt znxuamn g ruz
zumkznkx. Ck ngbk skz ingrrktmky gtj lgikj jgtmkxy, gtj ck qtuc zngz suxk rok
gnkgj. Ekz ck igt mu luxcgxj cozn iutlojktik, hkigayk znk yzgzk ul uax Atout oy
yzxutm, uax igayk ot znk cuxrj oy xomnz, gtj zutomnz zngz igayk muky ut. Muj
hrkyy. Zngtq eua lux euax vxgekxy. Zngtq eua.

[Gvvrgayk, znk Skshkxy xoyotm.]