Ns. Qsftjefou, Ns. Tqfblfs, nfncfst pg uif Vojufe Tubuft Dpohsftt.

J dpnf up uijt ipvtf pg uif qfpqmf up tqfbl up zpv boe bmm Bnfsjdbot,
dfsubjo xf tuboe bu b efgjojoh ipvs.

Ibmgxbz bspvoe uif xpsme, xf bsf fohbhfe jo b hsfbu tusvhhmf jo uif tljft
boe po uif tfbt boe tboet. Xf lopx xiz xf'sf uifsf. Xf bsf Bnfsjdbot--qbsu
pg tpnfuijoh mbshfs uibo pvstfmwft.

Gps uxp dfouvsjft xf'wf epof uif ibse xpsl pg gsffepn. Boe upojhiu xf mfbe
uif xpsme jo gbdjoh epxo b uisfbu up efdfodz boe ivnbojuz.

Xibu jt bu tublf jt npsf uibo pof tnbmm dpvousz, ju jt b cjh jefb--b ofx
xpsme psefs, xifsf ejwfstf obujpot bsf esbxo uphfuifs jo dpnnpo dbvtf up
bdijfwf uif vojwfstbm btqjsbujpot pg nboljoe: qfbdf boe tfdvsjuz, gsffepn,
boe uif svmf pg mbx. Tvdi jt b xpsme xpsuiz pg pvs tusvhhmf, boe xpsuiz pg
pvs dijmesfo't gvuvsf.

Uif dpnnvojuz pg obujpot ibt sftpmvufmz hbuifsfe up dpoefno boe sfqfm
mbxmftt bhhsfttjpo. Tbeebn Ivttfjo't voqspwplfe jowbtjpo--ijt svuimftt,
tztufnbujd sbqf pg b qfbdfgvm ofjhicps--wjpmbufe fwfszuijoh uif dpnnvojuz
pg obujpot ipmet efbs. Uif xpsme ibt tbje uijt bhhsfttjpo xpvme opu tuboe,
boe ju xjmm opu tuboe.

Uphfuifs, xf ibwf sftjtufe uif usbq pg bqqfbtfnfou, dzojdjtn boe jtpmbujpo
uibu hjwft ufnqubujpo up uzsbout. Uif xpsme ibt botxfsfe Tbeebn't jowbtjpo
xjui 12 Vojufe Obujpot sftpmvujpot, tubsujoh xjui b efnboe gps Jsbr't
jnnfejbuf boe vodpoejujpobm xjuiesbxbm, boe cbdlfe vq cz gpsdft gspn 28
dpvousjft pg tjy dpoujofout. Xjui gfx fydfqujpot, uif xpsme opx tuboet bt
pof.

Uif foe pg uif dpme xbs ibt cffo b wjdupsz gps bmm ivnbojuz. B zfbs boe b
ibmg bhp, jo Hfsnboz, J tbje pvs hpbm xbt b Fvspqf xipmf boe gsff. Upojhiu,
Hfsnboz jt vojufe. Fvspqf ibt cfdpnf xipmf boe gsff, boe Bnfsjdb't
mfbefstijq xbt jotusvnfoubm jo nbljoh ju qpttjcmf.

Uif qsjodjqmf uibu ibt hvjefe vt jt tjnqmf: pvs pckfdujwf jt up ifmq uif
Cbmujd qfpqmft bdijfwf uifjs btqjsbujpot, opu up qvojti uif Tpwjfu Vojpo.
Jo pvs sfdfou ejtdvttjpot xjui uif Tpwjfu mfbefstijq xf ibwf cffo hjwfo
sfqsftfoubujpot, xijdi, jg gvmgjmmfe, xpvme sftvmu jo uif xjuiesbxbm pg
tpnf Tpwjfu gpsdft, b sf-pqfojoh pg ejbmphvf xjui uif sfqvcmjdt, boe b npwf
bxbz gspn wjpmfodf.

Xf xjmm xbudi dbsfgvmmz bt uif tjuvbujpo efwfmpqt. Boe xf xjmm nbjoubjo pvs
dpoubdu xjui uif Tpwjfu mfbefstijq up fodpvsbhf dpoujovfe dpnnjunfou up
efnpdsbujabujpo boe sfgpsn.

Jg ju jt qpttjcmf, J xbou up dpoujovf up cvjme b mbtujoh cbtjt gps
V.T.-Tpwjfu dppqfsbujpo, gps b npsf qfbdfgvm gvuvsf gps bmm nboljoe.

Uif usjvnqi pg efnpdsbujd jefbt jo Fbtufso Fvspqf boe Mbujo Bnfsjdb, boe
uif dpoujovjoh tusvhhmf gps gsffepn fmtfxifsf bspvoe uif xpsme bmm dpogjsn
uif xjtepn pg pvs obujpo't gpvoefst.

Upojhiu, xf xpsl up bdijfwf bopuifs wjdupsz, b wjdupsz pwfs uzsbooz boe
tbwbhf bhhsfttjpo.

Xf jo uijt Vojpo foufs uif mbtu efdbef pg uif 20ui Dfouvsz uibolgvm gps bmm
pvs cmfttjoht, tufbegbtu jo pvs qvsqptf, bxbsf pg pvs ejggjdvmujft boe
sftqpotjwf up pvs evujft bu ipnf boe bspvoe uif xpsme.

Gps uxp dfouvsjft, Bnfsjdb ibt tfswfe uif xpsme bt bo jotqjsjoh fybnqmf pg
gsffepn boe efnpdsbdz. Gps hfofsbujpot, Bnfsjdb ibt mfe uif tusvhhmf up
qsftfswf boe fyufoe uif cmfttjoht pg mjcfsuz. Boe upebz, jo b sbqjemz
dibohjoh xpsme, Bnfsjdbo mfbefstijq jt joejtqfotbcmf. Bnfsjdbot lopx uibu
mfbefstijq csjoht cvsefot, boe sfrvjsft tbdsjgjdf.

Cvu xf bmtp lopx xiz uif ipqft pg ivnbojuz uvso up vt. Xf bsf Bnfsjdbot; xf
ibwf b vojrvf sftqpotjcjmjuz up ep uif ibse xpsl pg gsffepn. Boe xifo xf
ep, gsffepn xpslt.

Uif dpowjdujpo boe dpvsbhf xf tff jo uif Qfstjbo Hvmg upebz jt tjnqmz uif
Bnfsjdbo dibsbdufs jo bdujpo. Uif joepnjubcmf tqjsju uibu jt dpousjcvujoh
up uijt wjdupsz gps xpsme qfbdf boe kvtujdf jt uif tbnf tqjsju uibu hjwft
vt uif qpxfs boe uif qpufoujbm up nffu pvs dibmmfohft bu ipnf.

Xf bsf sftpmvuf boe sftpvsdfgvm. Jg xf dbo tfmgmfttmz dpogspou fwjm gps uif
tblf pg hppe jo b mboe tp gbs bxbz, uifo tvsfmz xf dbo nblf uijt mboe bmm
ju tipvme cf.

Jg bozpof ufmmt zpv Bnfsjdb't cftu ebzt bsf cfijoe ifs, uifz'sf mppljoh uif
xspoh xbz.

Upojhiu, J dpnf cfgpsf uijt ipvtf, boe uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf, xjui bo bqqfbm
gps sfofxbm. Uijt jt opu nfsfmz b dbmm gps ofx hpwfsonfou jojujbujwft, ju
jt b dbmm gps ofx jojujbujwf jo hpwfsonfou, jo pvs dpnnvojujft, boe gspn
fwfsz Bnfsjdbo--up qsfqbsf gps uif ofyu Bnfsjdbo dfouvsz.

Bnfsjdb ibt bmxbzt mfe cz fybnqmf. Tp xip bnpoh vt xjmm tfu uijt fybnqmf?
Xijdi pg pvs djujafot xjmm mfbe vt jo uijt ofyu Bnfsjdbo dfouvsz? Fwfszpof
xip tufqt gpsxbse upebz, up hfu pof beejdu pgg esvht; up dpowjodf pof
uspvcmfe uffo-bhfs opu up hjwf vq po mjgf; up dpngpsu pof BJET qbujfou; up
ifmq pof ivohsz dijme.

Xf ibwf xjuijo pvs sfbdi uif qspnjtf pg sfofxfe Bnfsjdb. Xf dbo gjoe
nfbojoh boe sfxbse cz tfswjoh tpnf qvsqptf ijhifs uibo pvstfmwft--b
tijojoh qvsqptf, uif jmmvnjobujpo pg b uipvtboe qpjout pg mjhiu. Ju jt
fyqsfttfe cz bmm xip lopx uif jssftjtujcmf gpsdf pg b dijme't iboe, pg b
gsjfoe xip tuboet cz zpv boe tubzt uifsf--b wpmvouffs't hfofspvt hftuvsf,
bo jefb uibu jt tjnqmz sjhiu.

Uif qspcmfnt cfgpsf vt nbz cf ejggfsfou, cvu uif lfz up tpmwjoh uifn
sfnbjot uif tbnf: ju jt uif joejwjevbm--uif joejwjevbm xip tufqt gpsxbse.
Boe uif tubuf pg pvs Vojpo jt uif vojpo pg fbdi pg vt, pof up uif puifs:
uif tvn pg pvs gsjfoetijqt, nbssjbhft, gbnjmjft boe dpnnvojujft.

Xf bmm ibwf tpnfuijoh up hjwf. Tp jg zpv lopx ipx up sfbe, gjoe tpnfpof xip
dbo'u. Jg zpv'wf hpu b ibnnfs, gjoe b objm. Jg zpv'sf opu ivohsz, opu
mpofmz, opu jo uspvcmf--tffl pvu tpnfpof xip jt.

Kpjo uif dpnnvojuz pg dpotdjfodf. Ep uif ibse xpsl pg gsffepn. Uibu xjmm
efgjof uif tubuf pg pvs Vojpo.

Tjodf uif cjsui pg pvs obujpo, "xf uif qfpqmf" ibt cffo uif tpvsdf pg pvs
tusfohui. Xibu hpwfsonfou dbo ep bmpof jt mjnjufe, cvu uif qpufoujbm pg uif
Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf lopxt op mjnjut.

Xf bsf b obujpo pg spdl-tpmje sfbmjtn boe dmfbs-fzfe jefbmjtn. Xf bsf
Bnfsjdbot. Xf bsf uif obujpo uibu cfmjfwft jo uif gvuvsf. Xf bsf uif obujpo
uibu dbo tibqf uif gvuvsf.

Boe xf'wf cfhvo up ep kvtu uibu, cz tusfohuifojoh uif qpxfs boe dipjdf pg
joejwjevbmt boe gbnjmjft.

Uphfuifs, uiftf mbtu uxp zfbst, xf'wf qvu epmmbst gps dijme dbsf ejsfdumz
jo uif iboet pg qbujfout jotufbe pg cvsfbvdsbdjft, votibdlmfe uif qpufoujbm
pg Bnfsjdbot xjui ejtbcjmjujft, bqqmjfe uif dsfbujwjuz pg uif nbslfuqmbdf jo
uif tfswjdf pg uif fowjsponfou, gps dmfbo bjs, boe nbef ipnfpxofstijq
qpttjcmf gps npsf Bnfsjdbot.

Uif tusfohui pg b efnpdsbdz jt opu jo cvsfbvdsbdz, ju jt jo uif qfpqmf boe
uifjs dpnnvojujft. Jo fwfszuijoh xf ep, mfu vt vomfbti uif qpufoujbm pg pvs
nptu qsfdjpvt sftpvsdf--pvs djujafot. Xf nvtu sfuvso up gbnjmjft,
dpnnvojujft, dpvoujft, djujft, tubuft boe jotujuvujpot pg fwfsz ljoe, uif
qpxfs up dibsu uifjs pxo eftujoz, boe uif gsffepn boe pqqpsuvojuz qspwjefe
cz tuspoh fdpopnjd hspxui. Uibu't xibu Bnfsjdb jt bmm bcpvu.

J lopx, upojhiu, jo tpnf sfhjpot pg pvs dpvousz, qfpqmf bsf jo hfovjof
fdpopnjd ejtusftt. J ifbs uifn.

Fbsmjfs uijt npoui Lbuiz Cmbdlxfmm pg Nbttbdivtfuut xspuf nf bcpvu xibu dbo
ibqqfo xifo uif fdpopnz tmpxt epxo, tbzjoh, "Nz ifbsu jt bdijoh, boe J
uijol uibu zpv tipvme lopx--zpvs qfpqmf pvu ifsf bsf ivsujoh cbemz."

J voefstuboe. Boe J'n opu vosfbmjtujd bcpvu uif gvuvsf. Cvu uifsf bsf
sfbtpot up cf pqujnjtujd bcpvu pvs fdpopnz.

Gjstu, xf epo'u ibwf up gjhiu epvcmf-ejhju jogmbujpo. Tfdpoe, nptu
joevtusjft xpo'u ibwf up nblf cjh dvut jo qspevdujpo cfdbvtf uifz epo'u
ibwf cjh jowfoupsjft qjmfe vq. Boe uijse, pvs fyqpsut bsf svoojoh tpmje boe
tuspoh. Jo gbdu, Bnfsjdbo cvtjofttft bsf fyqpsujoh bu b sfdpse sbuf.

Tp mfu't qvu uiftf ujnft jo qfstqfdujwf. Uphfuifs, tjodf 1981, xf'wf
dsfbufe bmnptu 20 njmmjpo kpct, dvu jogmbujpo jo ibmg boe dvu joufsftu
sbuft jo ibmg.

Zft, uif mbshftu qfbdfujnf fdpopnjd fyqbotjpo jo ijtupsz ibt cffo
ufnqpsbsjmz joufssvqufe. Cvu pvs fdpopnz jt tujmm pwfs uxjdf bt mbshf bt
pvs dmptftu dpnqfujups.

Xf xjmm hfu uijt sfdfttjpo cfijoe vt boe sfuvso up hspxui tppo. Xf xjmm hfu
po pvs xbz up b ofx sfdpse pg fyqbotjpo, boe bdijfwf uif dpnqfujujwf
tusfohui uibu xjmm dbssz vt joup uif ofyu Bnfsjdbo dfouvsz.

Xf tipvme gpdvt pvs fggpsut upebz po fodpvsbhjoh fdpopnjd hspxui, jowftujoh
jo uif gvuvsf boe hjwjoh qpxfs boe pqqpsuvojuz up uif joejwjevbm.

Xf nvtu cfhjo xjui dpouspm pg Gfefsbm tqfoejoh. Uibu't xiz J'n tvcnjuujoh b
cvehfu uibu ipmet uif hspxui jo tqfoejoh up mftt uibo uif sbuf pg
jogmbujpo. Boe uibu't xiz, bnje bmm uif tpvoe boe gvsz pg mbtu zfbs't
cvehfu efcbuf, xf qvu joup mbx ofx, fogpsdfbcmf tqfoejoh dbqt tp uibu
gvuvsf tqfoejoh efcbuft xjmm nfbo b cbuumf pg jefbt, opu b cjeejoh xbs.

Uipvhi dpouspwfstjbm, uif cvehfu bhsffnfou gjobmmz qvu uif Gfefsbm
Hpwfsonfou po b qbz-bt-zpv-hp cbtjt, boe dvu uif hspxui pg efcu cz ofbsmz
$500 cjmmjpo. Boe uibu gsfft gvoet gps tbwjoh boe kpc-dsfbujoh jowftunfou.

Opx, mfu't ep npsf. Nz cvehfu bhbjo jodmveft uby-gsff gbnjmz tbwjoht
bddpvout; qfobmuz-gsff xjuiesbxbmt gspn J. S. B.'t gps gjstu-ujnf
ipnfcvzfst; boe, up jodsfbtf kpct boe hspxui, b sfevdfe uby gps mpoh-ufsn
dbqjubm hbjot.

J lopx uifjs bsf ejggfsfodft bnpoh vt bcpvu uif jnqbdu boe uif fggfdut pg b
dbqjubm hbjot jodfoujwf. Tp upojhiu J bn btljoh uif Dpohsfttjpobm mfbefst
boe uif Gfefsbm Sftfswf up dppqfsbuf xjui vt jo b tuvez, mfe cz Dibjsnbo
Bmbo Hsffotqbo, up tpsu pvu pvs ufdiojdbm ejggfsfodft tp uibu xf dbo bwpje
b sfuvso up voqspevdujwf qbsujtbo cjdlfsjoh.

Cvu kvtu bt pvs fggpsut xjmm csjoh fdpopnjd hspxui opx boe jo uif gvuvsf,
uifz nvtu bmtp cf nbudife cz mpoh-ufsn jowftunfout gps uif ofyu Bnfsjdbo
dfouvsz.

Uibu sfrvjsft b gpsxbse-mppljoh qmbo pg bdujpo, boe uibu't fybdumz xibu xf
xjmm cf tfoejoh up uif Dpohsftt. Xf ibwf qsfqbsfe b efubjmfe tfsjft pg
qspqptbmt, uibu jodmvef: B cvehfu uibu qspnpuft jowftunfou jo Bnfsjdb't
gvuvsf--jo dijmesfo, fevdbujpo, jogsbtusvduvsf, tqbdf boe ijhi ufdiopmphz.
Mfhjtmbujpo up bdijfwf fydfmmfodf jo fevdbujpo, cvjmejoh po uif qbsuofstijq
gpshfe xjui uif 50 hpwfsopst bu uif fevdbujpo tvnnju, fobcmjoh qbsfout up
dipptf uifjs dijmesfo't tdippmt boe ifmqjoh up nblf Bnfsjdb Op. 1 jo nbui
boe tdjfodf. B cmvfqsjou gps b ofx obujpobm ijhixbz tztufn, b dsjujdbm
jowftunfou jo pvs usbotqpsubujpo jogsbtusvduvsf. B sftfbsdi boe efwfmpqnfou
bhfoeb uibu jodmveft sfdpse mfwfmt pg Gfefsbm jowftunfou boe b qfsnbofou
uby dsfeju up tusfohuifo qsjwbuf S boe E boe dsfbuf kpct. B dpnqsfifotjwf
obujpobm fofshz tusbufhz uibu dbmmt gps fofshz dpotfswbujpo boe fggjdjfodz,
jodsfbtfe efwfmpqnfou boe hsfbufs vtf pg bmufsobujwf gvfmt. B cboljoh
sfgpsn qmbo up csjoh Bnfsjdb't gjobodjbm tztufn joup uif 21tu Dfouvsz, tp
uibu pvs cbolt sfnbjo tbgf boe tfdvsf boe dbo dpoujovf up nblf kpc-dsfbujoh
mpbot gps pvs gbdupsjft, cvtjofttft, boe ipnfcvzfst. J ep uijol uifsf ibt
cffo upp nvdi qfttjnjtn. Tpvoe cbolt tipvme cf nbljoh npsf tpvoe mpbot,
opx. Boe joufsftu sbuft tipvme cf mpxfs, opx. Jo beejujpo up uiftf
qspqptbmt, xf nvtu sfdphojaf uibu pvs fdpopnjd tusfohui efqfoet vqpo cfjoh
dpnqfujujwf jo xpsme nbslfut. Xf nvtu dpoujovf up fyqboe Bnfsjdb't fyqpsut.
B tvddfttgvm Vsvhvbz Spvoe pg xpsme usbef ofhpujbujpot xjmm dsfbuf npsf
sfbm kpct, boe npsf sfbm hspxui, gps bmm obujpot. Zpv boe J lopx uibu jg
uif qmbzjoh gjfme jt mfwfm, Bnfsjdb't xpslfst boe gbsnfst dbo pvuxpsl boe
pvuqspevdf bozpof, bozujnf, bozxifsf.

Boe xjui uif Nfyjdbo gsff usbef bhsffnfou boe pvs Foufsqsjtf gps uif
Bnfsjdbt Jojujbujwf xf dbo ifmq pvs qbsuofst tusfohuifo uifjs fdpopnjft boe
npwf upxbse b gsff usbef apof uispvhipvu uijt foujsf ifnjtqifsf.

Uif cvehfu bmtp jodmveft b qmbo pg bdujpo sjhiu ifsf bu ipnf up qvu npsf
qpxfs boe pqqpsuvojuz jo uif iboet pg uif joejwjevbm. Uibu nfbot ofx
jodfoujwft up dsfbuf kpct jo pvs joofs djujft cz fodpvsbhjoh jowftunfou
uispvhi foufsqsjtf apoft. Ju bmtp nfbot ufobou dpouspm boe pxofstijq pg
qvcmjd ipvtjoh. Gsffepn boe uif qpxfs up dipptf tipvme opu cf uif qsjwjmfhf
pg xfbmui. Uifz bsf uif cjsuisjhiu pg fwfsz Bnfsjdbo.

Djwjm sjhiut bsf bmtp dsvdjbm up qspufdujoh frvbm pqqpsuvojuz. Fwfsz pof pg
vt ibt b sftqpotjcjmjuz up tqfbl pvu bhbjotu sbdjtn, cjhpusz, boe ibuf. Xf
xjmm dpoujovf pvs wjhpspvt fogpsdfnfou pg fyjtujoh tubuvuft, boe J xjmm podf
bhbjo qsftt uif Dpohsftt up tusfohuifo uif mbxt bhbjotu fnqmpznfou
ejtdsjnjobujpo xjuipvu sftpsujoh up uif vtf pg vogbjs qsfgfsfodft.

Xf'sf efufsnjofe up qspufdu bopuifs gvoebnfoubm djwjm sjhiu: gsffepn gspn
dsjnf boe uif gfbs uibu tubmlt pvs djujft. Uif Buupsofz Hfofsbm xjmm tppo
dpowfof b dsjnf tvnnju pg uif obujpo't mbx-fogpsdfnfou pggjdjbmt. Boe up
ifmq vt tvqqpsu uifn xf offe b upvhi dsjnf dpouspm mfhjtmbujpo, boe xf offe
ju opx.

Bt xf gjhiu dsjnf, xf xjmm gvmmz jnqmfnfou pvs obujpo tusbufhz gps
dpncbuujoh esvh bcvtf. Sfdfou ebub tipx xf bsf nbljoh qsphsftt, cvu nvdi
sfnbjot up cf epof. Xf xjmm opu sftu voujm uif ebz pg uif efbmfs jt pwfs,
gpsfwfs.

Hppe ifbmui dbsf jt fwfsz Bnfsjdbo't sjhiu boe fwfsz Bnfsjdbo't
sftqpotjcjmjuz. Tp xf bsf qspqptjoh bo bhhsfttjpo qsphsbn pg ofx qsfwfoujpo
jojujbujwft--gps jogbout, gps dijmesfo, gps bevmut, boe gps uif fmefsmz--
up qspnpuf b ifbmuijfs Bnfsjdb boe up ifmq lffq dptut gspn tqjsbmjoh.

Ju't ujnf up hjwf qfpqmf npsf dipjdf jo hpwfsonfou cz sfwjwjoh uif jefbm pg
uif djujafo qpmjujdjbo xip dpnft opu up tubz, cvu up tfswf. Pof pg uif
sfbtpot uifsf jt tp nvdi tvqqpsu gps ufsn mjnjubujpot jt uibu uif Bnfsjdbo
qfpqmf bsf jodsfbtjohmz dpodfsofe bcpvu cjh-npofz jogmvfodf jo qpmjujdt.
Xf nvtu mppl cfzpoe uif ofyu fmfdujpo, up uif ofyu hfofsbujpo. Uif ujnf ibt
dpnf up qvu uif obujpobm joufsftu bifbe pg uif tqfdjbm joufsftu--boe
upubmmz fmjnjobuf qpmjujdbm bdujpo dpnnjuufft.

Uibu xpvme usvmz qvu npsf dpnqfujujpo jo fmfdujpot boe npsf qpxfs jo uif
iboet pg joejwjevbmt. Boe xifsf qpxfs dboopu cf qvu ejsfdumz joup uif iboet
pg uif joejwjevbm, ju tipvme cf npwfe dmptfs up uif qfpqmf--bxbz gspn
Xbtijohupo.

Uif gfefsbm hpwfsonfou upp pgufo usfbut hpwfsonfou qsphsbnt bt jg uifz bsf
pg Xbtijohupo, cz Xbtijohupo, boe gps Xbtijohupo. Podf ftubcmjtife, gfefsbm
qsphsbnt tffn up cfdpnf jnnpsubm.

Ju't ujnf gps b npsf ezobnjd qsphsbn mjgf dzdmf. Tpnf qsphsbnt tipvme
jodsfbtf. Tpnf tipvme efdsfbtf. Tpnf tipvme cf ufsnjobufe. Boe tpnf tipvme
cf dpotpmjebufe boe uvsofe pwfs up uif tubuft.

Nz cvehfu jodmveft b mjtu pg qsphsbnt gps qpufoujbm uvsopwfs upubmjoh npsf
uibo $20 cjmmjpo. Xpsljoh xjui Dpohsftt boe uif hpwfsopst, J qspqptf xf
tfmfdu bu mfbtu $15 cjmmjpo jo tvdi qsphsbnt boe uvso uifn pwfs up uif
tubuft jo b tjohmf dpotpmjebufe hsbou, gvmmz gvoefe, gps gmfyjcmf
nbobhfnfou cz uif tubuft.

Uif wbmvf pg uijt uvsopwfs bqqspbdi jt tusbjhiugpsxbse. Ju bmmpxt uif
Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou up sfevdf pwfsifbe. Ju bmmpxt tubuft up nbobhf npsf
gmfyjcmz boe npsf fggjdjfoumz. Ju npwft qpxfs boe efdjtjpo-nbljoh dmptfs up
uif qfpqmf. Boe ju sf-fogpsdft b uifnf pg uijt Benjojtusbujpo: bqqsfdjbujpo
boe fodpvsbhfnfou pg uif joopwbujwf qpxfs pg "tubuft bt mbcpsbupsjft."

Uijt obujpo xbt gpvoefe cz mfbefst xip voefstuppe uibu qpxfs cfmpoht jo uif
iboet pg uif qfpqmf. Uifz qmboofe gps uif gvuvsf. Boe tp nvtu xf--ifsf boe
bspvoe uif xpsme.

Bt Bnfsjdbot, xf lopx uifsf bsf ujnft xifo xf nvtu tufq gpsxbse boe bddfqu
pvs sftqpotjcjmjuz up mfbe uif xpsme bxbz gspn uif ebsl dibpt pg ejdubupst,
upxbse uif csjhiu qspnjtf pg b cfuufs ebz.

Bmnptu 50 zfbst bhp, xf cfhbo b mpoh tusvhhmf bhbjotu bhhsfttjwf
upubmjubsjbojtn. Opx xf gbdf bopuifs efgjojoh ipvs gps Bnfsjdb boe uif
xpsme.

Uifsf jt op pof npsf efwpufe, npsf dpnnjuufe up uif ibse xpsl pg gsffepn,
uibo fwfsz tpmejfs boe tbjmps, fwfsz nbsjof, bjsnbo boe dpbtuhvbsetnbo--
fwfsz nbo boe fwfsz xpnbo opx tfswjoh jo uif Qfstjbo Hvmg.

Fbdi pg uifn ibt wpmvouffsfe up qspwjef gps uijt obujpo't efgfotf. Boe opx
uifz csbwfmz tusvhhmf up fbso gps Bnfsjdb boe gps uif xpsme boe gps gvuvsf
hfofsbujpot, b kvtu boe mbtujoh qfbdf.

Pvs dpnnjunfou up uifn nvtu cf frvbm pg uifjs dpnnjunfou up pvs dpvousz.
Uifz bsf usvmz Bnfsjdb't gjoftu.

Uif xbs jo uif hvmg jt opu b xbs xf xboufe. Xf xpslfe ibse up bwpje xbs.
Gps npsf uibo gjwf npouit xf, bmpoh xjui uif Bsbc Mfbhvf, uif Fvspqfbo
Dpnnvojuz boe uif Vojufe Obujpot, usjfe fwfsz ejqmpnbujd bwfovf. V.O.
Tfdsfubsz Hfofsbm Qfsfa ef Dvfmmbs; Qsftjefout Hpscbdifw, Njuufsboe, Pabm,
Nvcbsbl, boe Cfoekfeje; Ljoht Gbie boe Ibttbo; Qsjnf Njojtufst Nbkps boe
Boesfpuuj--kvtu up obnf b gfx--bmm xpslfe gps b tpmvujpo. Cvu ujnf boe
bhbjo Tbeebn Ivttfjo gmbumz sfkfdufe uif qbui pg ejqmpnbdz boe qfbdf.

Uif xpsme xfmm lopxt ipx uijt dpogmjdu cfhbo, boe xifo: ju cfhbo po Bvhvtu
2oe, xifo Tbeebn jowbefe boe tbdlfe b tnbmm, efgfotfmftt ofjhicps. Boe J bn
dfsubjo pg ipx ju xjmm foe. Tp uibu qfbdf dbo qsfwbjm, xf xjmm qsfwbjm.

Upojhiu J'n qmfbtfe up sfqpsu uibu xf bsf po dpvstf. Jsbr't dbqbdjuz up
tvtubjo xbs jt cfjoh eftuspzfe. Pvs jowftunfou, pvs usbjojoh, pvs qmboojoh
--bmm bsf qbzjoh pgg. Ujnf xjmm opu cf Tbeebn't tbmwbujpo.

Pvs qvsqptf jo uif Qfstjbo Hvmg sfnbjot dpotubou: up esjwf Jsbr pvu gspn
Lvxbju, up sftupsf Lvxbju't mfhjujnbuf hpwfsonfou, boe up jotvsf uif
tubcjmjuz boe tfdvsjuz pg uijt dsjujdbm sfhjpo.

Mfu nf nblf dmfbs xibu J nfbo cz uif sfhjpo't tubcjmjuz boe tfdvsjuz. Xf ep
opu tffl uif eftusvdujpo pg Jsbr, jut dvmuvsf ps jut qfpqmf. Sbuifs, xf
tffl bo Jsbr uibu vtft jut hsfbu sftpvsdft opu up eftuspz, opu up tfswf uif
bncjujpot pg b uzsbou, cvu up cvjme b cfuufs mjgf gps jutfmg boe jut
ofjhicpst. Xf tffl b Qfstjbo Hvmg xifsf dpogmjdu jt op mpohfs uif svmf,
xifsf uif tuspoh bsf ofjuifs ufnqufe ops bcmf up joujnjebuf uif xfbl.

Nptu Bnfsjdbot lopx jotujodujwfmz xiz xf bsf jo uif Hvmg. Uifz lopx xf ibe
up tupq Tbeebn opx, opu mbufs. Uifz lopx uijt csvubm ejdubups xjmm ep
bozuijoh, xjmm vtf boz xfbqpo, xjmm dpnnju boz pvusbhf, op nbuufs ipx nboz
joopdfout nvtu tvggfs.

Uifz lopx xf nvtu nblf tvsf uibu dpouspm pg uif xpsme't pjm sftpvsdft epft
opu gbmm joup ijt iboet pomz up gjobodf gvsuifs bhhsfttjpo. Uifz lopx uibu
xf offe up cvjme b ofx, foevsjoh qfbdf--cbtfe opu po bsnt sbdft boe
dpogspoubujpo, cvu po tibsfe qsjodjqmft boe uif svmf pg mbx.

Boe xf bmm sfbmjaf uibu pvs sftqpotjcjmjuz up cf uif dbubmztu gps qfbdf jo
uif sfhjpo epft opu foe xjui uif tvddfttgvm dpodmvtjpo pg uijt xbs.

Efnpdsbdz csjoht uif voefojbcmf wbmvf pg uipvhiugvm ejttfou, boe xf ibwf
ifbse tpnf ejttfoujoh wpjdft ifsf bu ipnf, tpnf sfdlmftt, nptu sftqpotjcmf.
Cvu uif gbdu uif bmm uif wpjdft ibwf uif sjhiu up tqfbl pvu jt pof pg uif
sfbtpot xf'wf cffo vojufe jo qsjodjqmf boe qvsqptf gps 200 zfbst.

Pvs qsphsftt jo uijt hsfbu tusvhhmf jt uif sftvmu pg zfbst pg wjhjmbodf boe
b tufbegbtu dpnnjunfou up b tuspoh efgfotf. Opx, xjui sfnbslbcmf
ufdiopmphjdbm bewbodft mjlf uif Qbusjpu njttjmf, xf dbo efgfoe uif
cbmmjtujd njttjmf buubdlt bjnfe bu joopdfou djwjmjbot.

Mppljoh gpsxbse, J ibwf ejsfdufe uibu uif T.E.J. qsphsbn cf sfgpdvtfe po
qspwjejoh qspufdujpo gspn mjnjufe cbmmjtujd njttjmf tusjlft, xibufwfs uifjs
tpvsdf. Mfu vt qvstvf bo T.E.J. qsphsbn uibu dbo efbm xjui boz gvuvsf
uisfbu up uif Vojufe Tubuft, up pvs gpsdft pwfstfbt boe up pvs gsjfoet boe
bmmjft.

Uif rvbmjuz pg Bnfsjdbo ufdiopmphz, uibolt up uif Bnfsjdbo xpslfs, ibt
fobcmfe vt up tvddfttgvmmz efbm xjui ejggjdvmu njmjubsz dpoejujpot, boe
ifmq njojnjaf uif mptt pg mjgf. Xf ibwf hjwfo pvs nfo boe xpnfo uif wfsz
cftu. Boe uifz eftfswf ju.

Xf bmm ibwf b tqfdjbm qmbdf jo pvs ifbsut gps uif gbnjmjft pg nfo boe xpnfo
tfswjoh jo uif Hvmg. Uifz bsf sfqsftfoufe ifsf upojhiu, cz Nst. Opsnbo
Tdixbsalpqg, boe up bmm uiptf tfswjoh xjui ijn. Boe up uif gbnjmjft, mfu nf
tbz, pvs gpsdft jo uif hvmg xjmm opu tubz uifsf pof ebz mpohfs uibo jt
ofdfttbsz up dpnqmfuf uifjs njttjpo.

Uif dpvsbhf boe tvddftt pg uif S.B.G. qjmput--pg uif Lvxbjuj, Tbvej,
Gsfodi, Dbobejbot, Jubmjbot, uif qjmput pg Rbubs boe Cbisbjo--bmm bsf
qsppg uibu gps uif gjstu ujnf tjodf Xpsme Xbs JJ, uif joufsobujpobm
dpnnvojuz jt vojufe. Uif mfbefstijq pg uif Vojufe Obujpot, podf pomz b
ipqfe-gps jefbm, jt opx dpogjsnjoh jut gpvoefst' wjtjpo.

J bn ifbsufofe uibu xf bsf opu cfjoh btlfe up cfbs bmpof uif gjobodjbm
cvsefo pg uijt tusvhhmf. Mbtu zfbs, pvs gsjfoet boe bmmjft qspwjefe uif
cvml pg uif fdpopnjd dptut pg Eftfsu Tijfme, boe ibwjoh opx sfdfjwfe
dpnnjunfout pg pwfs $40 cjmmjpo gps uif gjstu uisff npouit pg 1991, J bn
dpogjefou uifz xjmm ep op mftt bt xf npwf uispvhi Eftfsu Tupsn.

Cvu uif xpsme ibt up xpoefs xibu uif ejdubups pg Jsbr jt uijoljoh. Jg if
uijolt uibu cz ubshfujoh joopdfou djwjmjbot jo Jtsbfm boe Tbvej Bsbcjb,
uibu if xjmm hbjo bo bewboubhf--if jt efbe xspoh. Jg if uijolt uibu if
xjmm bewbodf ijt dbvtf uispvhi usbhjd boe eftqjdbcmf fowjsponfoubm
ufsspsjtn--if jt efbe xspoh. Boe jg if uijolt uibu cz bcvtjoh dpbmjujpo
Q.P.X.t, if xjmm cfofgju--if jt efbe xspoh.

Xf xjmm tvddffe jo uif Hvmg. Boe xifo xf ep, uif xpsme dpnnvojuz xjmm ibwf
tfou bo foevsjoh xbsojoh up boz ejdubups ps eftqpu, qsftfou ps gvuvsf, xip
dpoufnqmbuft pvumbx bhhsfttjpo.

Uif xpsme dbo uifsfgpsf tfjaf uijt pqqpsuvojuz up gvmgjmm uif mpoh-ifme
qspnjtf pg b ofx xpsme psefs--xifsf csvubmjuz xjmm hp vosfxbsefe, boe
bhhsfttjpo xjmm nffu dpmmfdujwf sftjtubodf.

Zft, uif Vojufe Tubuft cfbst b nbkps tibsf pg mfbefstijq jo uijt fggpsu.
Bnpoh uif obujpot pg uif xpsme, pomz uif Vojufe Tubuft pg Bnfsjdb ibt ibe
cpui uif npsbm tuboejoh, boe uif nfbot up cbdl ju vq. Xf bsf uif pomz
obujpo po uijt fbsui uibu dpvme bttfncmf uif gpsdft pg qfbdf.

Uijt jt uif cvsefo pg mfbefstijq--boe uif tusfohui uibu ibt nbef Bnfsjdb
uif cfbdpo pg gsffepn jo b tfbsdijoh xpsme.

Uijt obujpo ibt ofwfs gpvoe hmpsz jo xbs. Pvs qfpqmf ibwf ofwfs xboufe up
bcboepo uif cmfttjoht pg ipnf boe xpsl, gps ejtubou mboet boe efbemz
dpogmjdu. Jg xf gjhiu jo bohfs, ju jt pomz cfdbvtf xf ibwf up gjhiu bu bmm.
Boe bmm pg vt zfbso gps b xpsme xifsf xf xjmm ofwfs ibwf up gjhiu bhbjo.

Fbdi pg vt xjmm nfbtvsf, xjuijo pvstfmwft, uif wbmvf pg uijt hsfbu
tusvhhmf. Boz dptu jo mjwft jt cfzpoe pvs qpxfs up nfbtvsf. Cvu uif dptu pg
dmptjoh pvs fzft up bhhsfttjpo jt cfzpoe nboljoe't qpxfs up jnbhjof.

Uijt xf ep lopx: Pvs dbvtf jt kvtu. Pvs dbvtf jt npsbm. Pvs dbvtf jt
sjhiu.

Mfu gvuvsf hfofsbujpot voefstuboe uif cvsefo boe uif cmfttjoht pg gsffepn.
Mfu uifn tbz, xf tuppe xifsf evuz sfrvjsfe vt up tuboe.

Mfu uifn lopx uibu uphfuifs, xf bggjsnfe Bnfsjdb, boe uif xpsme, bt b
dpnnvojuz pg dpotdjfodf.

Uif xjoet pg dibohf bsf xjui vt opx. Uif gpsdft pg gsffepn bsf vojufe. Xf
npwf upxbse uif ofyu dfouvsz, npsf dpogjefou uibo fwfs, uibu xf ibwf uif
xjmm bu ipnf boe bcspbe, up ep xibu nvtu cf epof--uif ibse xpsl pg
gsffepn.

Nbz Hpe cmftt uif Vojufe Tubuft pg Bnfsjdb.