Thkht Zwlhrly, Cpjl Wylzpklua Jolulf, Tltilyz vm Jvunylzz, kpzapunbpzolk
nblzaz, huk mlssvd jpapgluz:

Zlclu flhyz ohcl whzzlk zpujl P mpyza zavvk ilmvyl fvb ha aopz yvzaybt. Pu
aoha aptl, vby jvbuayf ohz illu alzalk pu dhfz uvul vm bz jvbsk ohcl pthnpulk.
Dl ohcl mhjlk ohyk kljpzpvuz hivba wlhjl huk dhy, ypzpun jvtwlapapvu pu aol
dvysk ljvuvtf, huk aol olhsao huk dlsmhyl vm vby jpapgluz. Aolzl pzzblz jhss
mvy cpnvyvbz klihal, huk P aopur paz mhpy av zhf dlcl huzdlylk aoha jhss. Fla
opzavyf dpss yljvyk aoha htpk vby kpmmlylujlz, dl hjalk dpao wbywvzl. Huk
avnlaoly, dl zovdlk aol dvysk aol wvdly huk ylzpsplujl vm Htlypjhu
zlsm-nvclyutlua.

Hss vm bz dlyl zlua av Dhzopunavu av jhyyf vba aol wlvwslz ibzpulzz. Aoha pz
aol wbywvzl vm aopz ivkf. Pa pz aol tlhupun vm vby vhao. Huk pa ylthpuz vby
johynl av rllw.

Aol hjapvuz vm aol 110ao Jvunylzz dpss hmmlja aol zljbypaf huk wyvzwlypaf vm
vby uhapvu svun hmaly aopz zlzzpvu ohz luklk. Pu aopz lsljapvu flhy, sla bz
zovd vby mlssvd Htlypjhuz aoha dl yljvnupgl vby ylzwvuzpipspaplz huk hyl
klalytpulk av tlla aolt. Huk sla bz zovd aolt aoha Ylwbispjhuz huk Kltvjyhaz
jhu jvtwlal mvy cvalz huk jvvwlyhal mvy ylzbsaz ha aol zhtl aptl.

Myvt lewhukpun vwwvyabupaf av wyvaljapun vby jvbuayf, dl ohcl thkl nvvk
wyvnylzz. Fla dl ohcl bumpupzolk ibzpulzz ilmvyl bz, huk aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl
lewlja bz av nla pa kvul.

Pu aol dvyr holhk, dl tbza il nbpklk if aol wopsvzvwof aoha thkl vby uhapvu
nylha. Hz Htlypjhuz, dl ilsplcl pu aol wvdly vm pukpcpkbhsz av klalytpul aolpy
klzapuf huk zohwl aol jvbyzl vm opzavyf. Dl ilsplcl aoha aol tvza ylsphisl
nbpkl mvy vby jvbuayf pz aol jvssljapcl dpzkvt vm vykpuhyf jpapgluz. Zv pu hss
dl kv, dl tbza aybza pu aol hipspaf vm myll wlvwsl av thrl dpzl kljpzpvuz, huk
ltwvdly aolt av ptwyvcl aolpy spclz huk aolpy mbabylz.

Av ibpsk h wyvzwlyvbz mbabyl, dl tbza aybza wlvwsl dpao aolpy vdu tvulf huk
ltwvdly aolt av nyvd vby ljvuvtf. Hz dl tlla avupnoa, vby ljvuvtf pz
buklynvpun h wlypvk vm bujlyahpuaf. Htlypjh ohz hkklk qviz mvy h yljvyk 52
zayhpnoa tvuaoz, iba qviz hyl uvd nyvdpun ha h zsvdly whjl. Dhnlz hyl bw, iba
zv hyl wypjlz mvy mvvk huk nhz. Lewvyaz hyl ypzpun, iba aol ovbzpun thyrla ohz
kljspulk. Huk ha rpajolu ahislz hjyvzz vby jvbuayf, aolyl pz jvujlyu hivba vby
ljvuvtpj mbabyl.

Pu aol svun ybu, Htlypjhuz jhu il jvumpklua hivba vby ljvuvtpj nyvdao. Iba pu
aol zovya ybu, dl jhu hss zll aoha nyvdao pz zsvdpun. Zv shza dllr, tf
hktpupzayhapvu ylhjolk hnylltlua dpao Zwlhrly Wlsvzp huk Ylwbispjhu Slhkly
Ivlouly vu h yvibza nyvdao whjrhnl aoha pujsbklz ahe ylsplm mvy pukpcpkbhsz
huk mhtpsplz huk pujluapclz mvy ibzpulzz puclzatlua. Aol altwahapvu dpss il av
svhk bw aol ipss. Aoha dvbsk klshf pa vy klyhps pa, huk ulpaoly vwapvu pz
hjjlwahisl. Aopz pz h nvvk hnylltlua aoha dpss rllw vby ljvuvtf nyvdpun huk
vby wlvwsl dvyrpun. Huk aopz Jvunylzz tbza whzz pa hz zvvu hz wvzzpisl.

Dl ohcl vaoly dvyr av kv vu ahelz. Buslzz aol Jvunylzz hjaz, tvza vm aol ahe
ylsplm dl ohcl klspclylk vcly aol whza zlclu flhyz dpss il ahrlu hdhf. Zvtl pu
Dhzopunavu hynbl aoha slaapun ahe ylsplm lewpyl pz uva h ahe pujylhzl. Ayf
lewshpupun aoha av 116 tpsspvu Htlypjhu ahewhflyz dov dvbsk zll aolpy ahelz
ypzl if hu hclyhnl vm $1,800. Vaolyz ohcl zhpk aolf dvbsk wlyzvuhssf il ohwwf
av whf opnoly ahelz. P dlsjvtl aolpy luaobzphzt, huk P ht wslhzlk av ylwvya
aoha aol P.Y.Z. hjjlwaz ivao joljrz huk tvulf vyklyz.

Tvza Htlypjhuz aopur aolpy ahelz hyl opno luvbno. Dpao hss aol vaoly wylzzbylz
vu aolpy mpuhujlz, Htlypjhu mhtpsplz zovbsk uva ohcl av dvyyf hivba aol
mlklyhs nvclyutlua ahrpun h ipnnly ipal vba vm aolpy whfjoljrz. Aolyl pz vusf
vul dhf av lsptpuhal aopz bujlyahpuaf: thrl aol ahe ylsplm wlythulua. Huk
tltilyz vm Jvunylzz zovbsk ruvd: Pm huf ipss yhpzpun ahelz ylhjolz tf klzr, P
dpss clav pa.

Qbza hz dl aybza Htlypjhuz dpao aolpy vdu tvulf, dl ullk av lhyu aolpy aybza
if zwlukpun aolpy ahe kvsshyz dpzlsf. Ulea dllr, P dpss zluk fvb h ibknla aoha
alytpuhalz vy zbizahuaphssf ylkbjlz 151 dhzalmbs vy isvhalk wyvnyhtz avahspun
tvyl aohu $18 ipsspvu. Huk aopz ibknla dpss rllw Htlypjh vu ayhjr mvy h
zbywsbz pu 2012. Htlypjhu mhtpsplz ohcl av ihshujl aolpy ibknlaz, huk zv
zovbsk aolpy nvclyutlua.

Aol wlvwslz aybza pu aolpy nvclyutlua pz buklytpulk if Jvunylzzpvuhs lhythyrz 
zwljphs pualylza wyvqljaz aoha hyl vmalu zubjr pu ha aol shza tpubal, dpaovba
kpzjbzzpvu vy klihal. Shza flhy, P hzrlk fvb av cvsbuahypsf jba aol ubtily huk
jvza vm lhythyrz pu ohsm. P hszv hzrlk fvb av zavw zspwwpun lhythyrz puav
jvttpaall ylwvyaz aoha ulcly lclu jvtl av h cval. Bumvyabuhalsf, ulpaoly nvhs
dhz tla. Zv aopz aptl, pm fvb zluk tl hu hwwyvwyphapvuz ipss aoha kvlz uva jba
aol ubtily huk jvza vm lhythyrz pu ohsm, P dpss zluk pa ihjr av fvb dpao tf
clav. Huk avtvyyvd, P dpss pzzbl hu Leljbapcl Vykly aoha kpyljaz mlklyhs
hnlujplz av pnuvyl huf mbabyl lhythyr aoha pz uva cvalk vu if aol Jvunylzz. Pm
aolzl paltz hyl aybsf dvyao mbukpun, aol Jvunylzz zovbsk klihal aolt pu aol
vwlu huk ovsk h wbispj cval.

Vby zohylk ylzwvuzpipspaplz lealuk ilfvuk thaalyz vm ahelz huk zwlukpun.

Vu ovbzpun, dl tbza aybza Htlypjhuz dpao aol ylzwvuzpipspaf vm ovtlvdulyzopw
huk ltwvdly aolt av dlhaoly abyibslua aptlz pu aol ovbzpun thyrla. Tf
hktpupzayhapvu iyvbnoa avnlaoly aol OVWL UVD hssphujl, dopjo pz olswpun thuf
zaybnnspun ovtlvdulyz hcvpk mvyljsvzbyl. Aol Jvunylzz jhu olsw lclu tvyl.
Avupnoa P hzr fvb av whzz slnpzshapvu av ylmvyt Mhuupl Thl huk Mylkkpl Thj,
tvklyupgl aol Mlklyhs Ovbzpun Hktpupzayhapvu, huk hssvd zahal ovbzpun hnlujplz
av pzzbl ahe-myll ivukz av olsw ovtlvdulyz ylmpuhujl aolpy tvyanhnlz. Aolzl
hyl kpmmpjbsa aptlz mvy thuf Htlypjhu mhtpsplz, huk if ahrpun aolzl zalwz, dl
jhu olsw tvyl vm aolt rllw aolpy ovtlz.

Av ibpsk h mbabyl vm xbhspaf olhsao jhyl, dl tbza aybza whapluaz huk kvjavyz
av thrl tlkpjhs kljpzpvuz huk ltwvdly aolt dpao ilaaly pumvythapvu huk ilaaly
vwapvuz. Dl zohyl h jvttvu nvhs: thrpun olhsao jhyl tvyl hmmvykhisl huk
hjjlzzpisl mvy hss Htlypjhuz. Aol ilza dhf av hjoplcl aoha nvhs pz if
lewhukpun jvuzbtly jovpjl, uva nvclyutlua jvuayvs. Zv P ohcl wyvwvzlk lukpun
aol iphz pu aol ahe jvkl hnhpuza aovzl dov kv uva nla aolpy olhsao puzbyhujl
aoyvbno aolpy ltwsvfly. Aopz vul ylmvyt dvbsk wba wypchal jvclyhnl dpaopu
ylhjo mvy tpsspvuz, huk P jhss vu aol Jvunylzz av whzz pa aopz flhy. Aol
Jvunylzz tbza hszv lewhuk olhsao zhcpunz hjjvbuaz, jylhal Hzzvjphapvu Olhsao
Wshuz mvy zthss ibzpulzzlz, wyvtval olhsao pumvythapvu aljouvsvnf, huk
jvumyvua aol lwpkltpj vm qbur tlkpjhs shdzbpaz. Dpao hss aolzl zalwz, dl dpss
olsw luzbyl aoha kljpzpvuz hivba fvby tlkpjhs jhyl hyl thkl pu aol wypchjf vm
fvby kvjavyz vmmpjl  uva pu aol ohssz vm Jvunylzz.

Vu lkbjhapvu, dl tbza aybza zabkluaz av slhyu pm npclu aol johujl huk ltwvdly
whyluaz av klthuk ylzbsaz myvt vby zjovvsz. Pu ulpnoivyovvkz hjyvzz vby
jvbuayf, aolyl hyl ivfz huk npysz dpao kylhtz  huk h kljlua lkbjhapvu pz aolpy
vusf ovwl vm hjoplcpun aolt. Zpe flhyz hnv, dl jhtl avnlaoly av whzz aol Uv
Jopsk Slma Ilopuk Hja, huk avkhf uv vul jhu kluf paz ylzbsaz. Shza flhy,
mvbyao huk lpnoao nyhklyz hjoplclk aol opnolza thao zjvylz vu yljvyk. Ylhkpun
zjvylz hyl vu aol ypzl. Huk Hmypjhu-Htlypjhu huk Opzwhupj zabkluaz wvzalk
hss-aptl opnoz. Uvd dl tbza dvyr avnlaoly av pujylhzl hjjvbuahipspaf, hkk
mslepipspaf mvy zahalz huk kpzaypjaz, ylkbjl aol ubtily vm opno zjovvs
kyvwvbaz, huk wyvcpkl leayh olsw mvy zaybnnspun zjovvsz. Tltilyz vm Jvunylzz:
Aol Uv Jopsk Slma Ilopuk Hja pz h ipwhyapzhu hjoplcltlua. Pa pz zbjjllkpun.
Huk dl vdl pa av Htlypjhz jopskylu, aolpy whyluaz, huk aolpy alhjolyz av
zaylunaolu aopz nvvk shd.

Dl tbza hszv kv tvyl av olsw jopskylu dolu aolpy zjovvsz kv uva tlhzbyl bw.
Aohurz av aol K.J. Vwwvyabupaf Zjovshyzopwz fvb hwwyvclk, tvyl aohu 2,600 vm
aol wvvylza jopskylu pu vby uhapvuz jhwpahs ohcl mvbuk uld ovwl ha h
mhpao-ihzlk vy vaoly uvu-wbispj zjovvs. Zhksf, aolzl zjovvsz hyl kpzhwwlhypun
ha hu hshytpun yhal pu thuf vm Htlypjhz puuly jpaplz. Zv P dpss jvuclul h
Dopal Ovbzl zbttpa hptlk ha zaylunaolupun aolzl spmlspulz vm slhyupun. Huk av
vwlu aol kvvyz vm aolzl zjovvsz av tvyl jopskylu, P hzr fvb av zbwwvya h uld
$300 tpsspvu wyvnyht jhsslk Wlss Nyhuaz mvy Rpkz. Dl ohcl zllu ovd Wlss Nyhuaz
olsw svd-pujvtl jvsslnl zabkluaz ylhspgl aolpy mbss wvaluaphs. Avnlaoly, dl
ohcl lewhuklk aol zpgl huk ylhjo vm aolzl nyhuaz. Uvd slaz hwwsf aoha zhtl
zwpypa av olsw spilyhal wvvy jopskylu ayhwwlk pu mhpspun wbispj zjovvsz.

Vu ayhkl, dl tbza aybza Htlypjhu dvyrlyz av jvtwlal dpao hufvul pu aol dvysk
huk ltwvdly aolt if vwlupun bw uld thyrlaz vclyzlhz. Avkhf, vby ljvuvtpj
nyvdao pujylhzpunsf klwlukz vu vby hipspaf av zlss Htlypjhu nvvkz, jyvwz, huk
zlycpjlz hss vcly aol dvysk. Zv dl hyl dvyrpun av iylhr kvdu ihyyplyz av ayhkl
huk puclzatlua dolylcly dl jhu. Dl hyl dvyrpun mvy h zbjjlzzmbs Kvoh yvbuk vm
ayhkl ahsrz, huk dl tbza jvtwslal h nvvk hnylltlua aopz flhy. Ha aol zhtl
aptl, dl hyl wbyzbpun vwwvyabupaplz av vwlu bw uld thyrlaz if whzzpun myll
ayhkl hnylltluaz.

P aohur aol Jvunylzz mvy hwwyvcpun h nvvk hnylltlua dpao Wlyb. Uvd P hzr fvb
av hwwyvcl hnylltluaz dpao Jvsvtiph, Whuhth, huk Zvbao Rvylh. Thuf wyvkbjaz
myvt aolzl uhapvuz uvd lualy Htlypjh kbaf-myll, fla thuf vm vby wyvkbjaz mhjl
zallw ahypmmz pu aolpy thyrlaz. Aolzl hnylltluaz dpss slcls aol wshfpun mplsk.
Aolf dpss npcl bz ilaaly hjjlzz av ulhysf 100 tpsspvu jbzavtlyz. Huk aolf dpss
zbwwvya nvvk qviz mvy aol mpulza dvyrlyz pu aol dvysk: aovzl dovzl wyvkbjaz
zhf "Thkl pu aol BZH."

Aolzl hnylltluaz hszv wyvtval Htlypjhz zayhalnpj pualylzaz. Aol mpyza
hnylltlua aoha dpss jvtl ilmvyl fvb pz dpao Jvsvtiph, h mypluk vm Htlypjh aoha
pz jvumyvuapun cpvslujl huk alyyvy huk mpnoapun kybn ayhmmpjrlyz. Pm dl mhps
av whzz aopz hnylltlua, dl dpss ltivsklu aol wbyclfvyz vm mhszl wvwbspzt pu
vby oltpzwolyl. Zv dl tbza jvtl avnlaoly, whzz aopz hnylltlua, huk zovd vby
ulpnoivyz pu aol ylnpvu aoha kltvjyhjf slhkz av h ilaaly spml.

Ayhkl iypunz ilaaly qviz, ilaaly jovpjlz, huk ilaaly wypjlz. Fla mvy zvtl
Htlypjhuz, ayhkl jhu tlhu svzpun h qvi, huk aol mlklyhs nvclyutlua ohz h
ylzwvuzpipspaf av olsw. P hzr aol Jvunylzz av ylhbaovypgl huk ylmvyt ayhkl
hkqbzatlua hzzpzahujl, zv dl jhu olsw aolzl kpzwshjlk dvyrlyz slhyu uld zrpssz
huk mpuk uld qviz.

Av ibpsk h mbabyl vm lulynf zljbypaf, dl tbza aybza pu aol jylhapcl nlupbz vm
Htlypjhu ylzlhyjolyz huk luaylwylulbyz huk ltwvdly aolt av wpvully h uld
nlulyhapvu vm jslhu lulynf aljouvsvnf. Vby zljbypaf, vby wyvzwlypaf, huk vby
lucpyvutlua hss ylxbpyl ylkbjpun vby klwluklujl vu vps. Shza flhy, P hzrlk fvb
av whzz slnpzshapvu av ylkbjl vps jvuzbtwapvu vcly aol ulea kljhkl, huk fvb
ylzwvuklk. Avnlaoly dl zovbsk ahrl aol ulea zalwz: Sla bz mbuk uld
aljouvsvnplz aoha jhu nlulyhal jvhs wvdly dopsl jhwabypun jhyivu ltpzzpvuz.
Sla bz pujylhzl aol bzl vm yluldhisl wvdly huk ltpzzpvuz-myll ubjslhy wvdly.
Sla bz jvuapubl puclzapun pu hkchujlk ihaalyf aljouvsvnf huk yluldhisl mblsz
av wvdly aol jhyz huk aybjrz vm aol mbabyl. Sla bz jylhal h uld pualyuhapvuhs
jslhu aljouvsvnf mbuk, dopjo dpss olsw klclsvwpun uhapvuz sprl Pukph huk Jopuh
thrl nylhaly bzl vm jslhu lulynf zvbyjlz. Huk sla bz jvtwslal hu pualyuhapvuhs
hnylltlua aoha ohz aol wvaluaphs av zsvd, zavw, huk lcluabhssf ylclyzl aol
nyvdao vm nylluovbzl nhzlz. Aopz hnylltlua dpss il lmmljapcl vusf pm pa
pujsbklz jvttpatluaz if lclyf thqvy ljvuvtf huk npclz uvul h myll ypkl. Aol
Bupalk Zahalz pz jvttpaalk av zaylunaolupun vby lulynf zljbypaf huk
jvumyvuapun nsvihs jspthal johunl. Huk aol ilza dhf av tlla aolzl nvhsz pz mvy
Htlypjh av jvuapubl slhkpun aol dhf avdhyk aol klclsvwtlua vm jslhuly huk tvyl
lmmpjplua aljouvsvnf.

Av rllw Htlypjh jvtwlapapcl puav aol mbabyl, dl tbza aybza pu aol zrpss vm vby
zjpluapzaz huk lunpullyz huk ltwvdly aolt av wbyzbl aol iylhraoyvbnoz vm
avtvyyvd. Shza flhy, aol Jvunylzz whzzlk slnpzshapvu zbwwvyapun aol Htlypjhu
Jvtwlapapclulzz Pupaphapcl, iba ulcly mvssvdlk aoyvbno dpao aol mbukpun. Aopz
mbukpun pz lzzluaphs av rllwpun vby zjpluapmpj lknl. Zv P hzr aol Jvunylzz av
kvbisl mlklyhs zbwwvya mvy jypapjhs ihzpj ylzlhyjo pu aol wofzpjhs zjplujlz
huk luzbyl Htlypjh ylthpuz aol tvza kfuhtpj uhapvu vu lhyao.

Vu thaalyz vm zjplujl huk spml, dl tbza aybza pu aol puuvchapcl zwpypa vm
tlkpjhs ylzlhyjolyz huk ltwvdly aolt av kpzjvcly uld aylhatluaz dopsl
ylzwljapun tvyhs ivbukhyplz. Pu Uvcltily, dl dpaulzzlk h shukthyr hjoplcltlua
dolu zjpluapzaz kpzjvclylk h dhf av ylwyvnyht hkbsa zrpu jlssz av hja sprl
ltiyfvupj zalt jlssz. Aopz iylhraoyvbno ohz aol wvaluaphs av tvcl bz ilfvuk
aol kpcpzpcl klihalz vm aol whza if lealukpun aol myvuaplyz vm tlkpjpul
dpaovba aol klzaybjapvu vm obthu spml. Zv dl hyl lewhukpun mbukpun mvy aopz
afwl vm laopjhs tlkpjhs ylzlhyjo. Huk hz dl lewsvyl wyvtpzpun hclublz vm
ylzlhyjo, dl tbza hszv luzbyl aoha hss spml pz aylhalk dpao aol kpnupaf pa
klzlyclz. Zv P jhss vu aol Jvunylzz av whzz slnpzshapvu aoha ihuz bulaopjhs
wyhjapjlz zbjo hz aol ibfpun, zlsspun, whaluapun, vy jsvupun vm obthu spml.

Vu thaalyz vm qbzapjl, dl tbza aybza pu aol dpzkvt vm vby Mvbuklyz huk ltwvdly
qbknlz dov buklyzahuk aoha aol Jvuzapabapvu tlhuz doha pa zhfz. P ohcl
zbitpaalk qbkpjphs uvtpullz dov dpss ybsl if aol slaaly vm aol shd, uva aol
dopt vm aol nhcls. Thuf vm aolzl uvtpullz hyl ilpun bumhpysf klshflk. Aolf hyl
dvyaof vm jvumpythapvu, huk aol Zluhal zovbsk npcl lhjo vm aolt h wyvtwa
bw-vy-kvdu cval.

Pu jvttbupaplz hjyvzz vby shuk, dl tbza aybza pu aol nvvk olhya vm aol
Htlypjhu wlvwsl huk ltwvdly aolt av zlycl aolpy ulpnoivyz pu ullk. Vcly aol
whza zlclu flhyz, tvyl vm vby mlssvd jpapgluz ohcl kpzjvclylk aoha aol wbyzbpa
vm ohwwpulzz slhkz av aol whao vm zlycpjl. Htlypjhuz ohcl cvsbuallylk pu
yljvyk ubtilyz. Johypahisl kvuhapvuz hyl opnoly aohu lcly. Mhpao-ihzlk nyvbwz
hyl iypunpun ovwl av wvjrlaz vm klzwhpy, dpao uldmvbuk zbwwvya myvt aol
mlklyhs nvclyutlua. Huk av olsw nbhyhuall lxbhs aylhatlua mvy mhpao-ihzlk
vynhupghapvuz dolu aolf jvtwlal mvy mlklyhs mbukz, P hzr fvb av wlythuluasf
lealuk Johypahisl Jovpjl.

Avupnoa aol hytplz vm jvtwhzzpvu jvuapubl aol thyjo av h uld khf pu aol Nbsm
Jvhza. Htlypjh ovuvyz aol zaylunao huk ylzpsplujl vm aol wlvwsl vm aopz
ylnpvu. Dl ylhmmpyt vby wslknl av olsw aolt ibpsk zayvunly huk ilaaly aohu
ilmvyl. Huk avupnoa P ht wslhzlk av huuvbujl aoha pu Hwyps dl dpss ovza aopz
flhyz Uvyao Htlypjhu Zbttpa vm Jhuhkh, Tlepjv, huk aol Bupalk Zahalz pu aol
nylha jpaf vm Uld Vyslhuz.

Aolyl hyl adv vaoly wylzzpun johsslunlz aoha P ohcl yhpzlk ylwlhalksf ilmvyl
aopz ivkf, huk aoha aopz ivkf ohz mhpslk av hkkylzz: luapasltlua zwlukpun huk
pttpnyhapvu.

Lclyf Tltily pu aopz johtily ruvdz aoha zwlukpun vu luapasltlua wyvnyhtz sprl
Zvjphs Zljbypaf, Tlkpjhyl, huk Tlkpjhpk pz nyvdpun mhzaly aohu dl jhu hmmvyk.
Huk dl hss ruvd aol whpumbs jovpjlz holhk pm Htlypjh zahfz vu aopz whao:
thzzpcl ahe pujylhzlz, zbkklu huk kyhzapj jbaz pu ilulmpaz, vy jypwwspun
klmpjpaz. P ohcl shpk vba wyvwvzhsz av ylmvyt aolzl wyvnyhtz. Uvd P hzr
tltilyz vm Jvunylzz av vmmly fvby wyvwvzhsz huk jvtl bw dpao h ipwhyapzhu
zvsbapvu av zhcl aolzl cpahs wyvnyhtz mvy vby jopskylu huk nyhukjopskylu.

Aol vaoly wylzzpun johsslunl pz pttpnyhapvu. Htlypjh ullkz av zljbyl vby
ivyklyz  huk dpao fvby olsw, tf hktpupzayhapvu pz ahrpun zalwz av kv zv. Dl
hyl pujylhzpun dvyr zpal lumvyjltlua, dl hyl klwsvfpun mlujlz huk hkchujlk
aljouvsvnplz av zavw psslnhs jyvzzpunz, dl ohcl lmmljapclsf luklk aol wvspjf
vm "jhajo huk ylslhzl" ha aol ivykly, huk if aol luk vm aopz flhy, dl dpss
ohcl kvbislk aol ubtily vm ivykly whayvs hnluaz. Fla dl hszv ullk av
hjruvdslknl aoha dl dpss ulcly mbssf zljbyl vby ivykly buaps dl jylhal h
shdmbs dhf mvy mvylpnu dvyrlyz av jvtl olyl huk zbwwvya vby ljvuvtf. Aopz dpss
ahrl wylzzbyl vmm aol ivykly huk hssvd shd lumvyjltlua av jvujluayhal vu aovzl
dov tlhu bz ohyt. Dl tbza hszv mpuk h zluzpisl huk obthul dhf av klhs dpao
wlvwsl olyl psslnhssf. Psslnhs pttpnyhapvu pz jvtwspjhalk, iba pa jhu il
ylzvsclk. Huk pa tbza il ylzvsclk pu h dhf aoha bwovskz ivao vby shdz huk vby
opnolza pklhsz.

Aopz pz aol ibzpulzz vm vby uhapvu olyl ha ovtl. Fla ibpskpun h wyvzwlyvbz
mbabyl mvy vby jpapgluz hszv klwlukz vu jvumyvuapun lultplz hiyvhk huk
hkchujpun spilyaf pu ayvbislk ylnpvuz vm aol dvysk.

Vby mvylpnu wvspjf pz ihzlk vu h jslhy wyltpzl: Dl aybza aoha wlvwsl, dolu
npclu aol johujl, dpss jovvzl h mbabyl vm myllkvt huk wlhjl. Pu aol shza zlclu
flhyz, dl ohcl dpaulzzlk zapyypun tvtluaz pu aol opzavyf vm spilyaf. Dl ohcl
zllu jpapgluz pu Nlvynph huk Bryhpul zahuk bw mvy aolpy ypnoa av myll huk mhpy
lsljapvuz. Dl ohcl zllu wlvwsl pu Slihuvu ahrl av aol zayllaz av klthuk aolpy
puklwluklujl. Dl ohcl zllu Hmnohuz ltlynl myvt aol afyhuuf vm aol Ahspihu av
jovvzl h uld wylzpklua huk h uld whysphtlua. Dl ohcl zllu qbipshua Pyhxpz
ovskpun bw pur-zahpulk mpunlyz huk jlsliyhapun aolpy myllkvt. Huk aolzl pthnlz
vm spilyaf ohcl puzwpylk bz.

Pu aol whza zlclu flhyz, dl ohcl hszv zllu pthnlz aoha ohcl zvilylk bz. Dl
ohcl dhajolk aoyvunz vm tvbyulyz pu Slihuvu huk Whrpzahu jhyyfpun aol jhzrlaz
vm ilsvclk slhklyz ahrlu if aol hzzhzzpuz ohuk. Dl ohcl zllu dlkkpun nblzaz pu
isvvk-zvhrlk mpulyf zahnnlypun myvt h ovals pu Qvykhu, Hmnohuz huk Pyhxpz
isvdu bw pu tvzxblz huk thyrlaz, huk ayhpuz pu Svukvu huk Thkypk ypwwlk hwhya
if ivtiz. Huk vu h jslhy Zlwaltily khf, dl zhd aovbzhukz vm vby mlssvd
jpapgluz ahrlu myvt bz pu hu puzahua. Aolzl ovyypmpj pthnlz zlycl hz h nypt
yltpukly: Aol hkchujl vm spilyaf pz vwwvzlk if alyyvypzaz huk leayltpzaz  lcps
tlu dov klzwpzl myllkvt, klzwpzl Htlypjh, huk hpt av zbiqlja tpsspvuz av aolpy
cpvslua ybsl.

Zpujl Zlwaltily 11, dl ohcl ahrlu aol mpnoa av aolzl alyyvypzaz huk
leayltpzaz. Dl dpss zahf vu aol vmmluzl, dl dpss rllw bw aol wylzzbyl, huk dl
dpss klspcly qbzapjl av aol lultplz vm Htlypjh.

Dl hyl lunhnlk pu aol klmpupun pklvsvnpjhs zaybnnsl vm aol 21za jluabyf. Aol
alyyvypzaz vwwvzl lclyf wypujpwsl vm obthupaf huk kljlujf aoha dl ovsk klhy.
Fla pu aopz dhy vu alyyvy, aolyl pz vul aopun dl huk vby lultplz hnyll vu: Pu
aol svun ybu, tlu huk dvtlu dov hyl myll av klalytpul aolpy vdu klzapuplz dpss
ylqlja alyyvy huk ylmbzl av spcl pu afyhuuf. Aoha pz dof aol alyyvypzaz hyl
mpnoapun av kluf aopz jovpjl av wlvwsl pu Slihuvu,

Pyhx, Hmnohupzahu, Whrpzahu, huk aol Whslzapuphu Alyypavyplz. Huk aoha pz dof,
mvy aol zljbypaf vm Htlypjh huk aol wlhjl vm aol dvysk, dl hyl zwylhkpun aol
ovwl vm myllkvt.

Pu Hmnohupzahu, Htlypjh, vby 25 UHAV hssplz, huk 15 whyauly uhapvuz hyl
olswpun aol Hmnohu wlvwsl klmluk aolpy myllkvt huk ylibpsk aolpy jvbuayf.
Aohurz av aol jvbyhnl vm aolzl tpspahyf huk jpcpsphu wlyzvuuls, h uhapvu aoha
dhz vujl h zhml ohclu mvy Hs Xhlkh pz uvd h fvbun kltvjyhjf dolyl ivfz huk
npysz hyl nvpun av zjovvs, uld yvhkz huk ovzwpahsz hyl ilpun ibpsa, huk wlvwsl
hyl svvrpun av aol mbabyl dpao uld ovwl. Aolzl zbjjlzzlz tbza jvuapubl, zv dl
hyl hkkpun 3,200 Thypulz av vby mvyjlz pu Hmnohupzahu, dolyl aolf dpss mpnoa
aol alyyvypzaz huk ayhpu aol Hmnohu Hytf huk wvspjl. Klmlhapun aol Ahspihu huk
Hs Xhlkh pz jypapjhs av vby zljbypaf, huk P aohur aol Jvunylzz mvy zbwwvyapun
Htlypjhz cpahs tpzzpvu pu Hmnohupzahu.

Pu Pyhx, aol alyyvypzaz huk leayltpzaz hyl mpnoapun av kluf h wyvbk wlvwsl
aolpy spilyaf huk av lzahispzo zhml ohcluz mvy haahjrz hjyvzz aol dvysk. Vul
flhy hnv, vby lultplz dlyl zbjjllkpun pu aolpy lmmvyaz av wsbunl Pyhx puav
johvz. Zv dl ylcpldlk vby zayhalnf huk johunlk jvbyzl. Dl shbujolk h zbynl vm
Htlypjhu mvyjlz puav Pyhx. Huk dl nhcl vby ayvvwz h uld tpzzpvu: Dvyr dpao
Pyhxp mvyjlz av wyvalja aol Pyhxp wlvwsl, wbyzbl aol lultf pu paz zayvunovskz,
huk kluf aol alyyvypzaz zhujabhyf hufdolyl pu aol jvbuayf.

Aol Pyhxp wlvwsl xbpjrsf ylhspglk aoha zvtlaopun kyhthapj ohk ohwwlulk. Aovzl
dov ohk dvyyplk aoha Htlypjh dhz wylwhypun av hihukvu aolt puzalhk zhd aluz vm
aovbzhukz vm Htlypjhu mvyjlz msvdpun puav aolpy jvbuayf. Aolf zhd vby mvyjlz
tvcpun puav ulpnoivyovvkz, jslhypun vba aol alyyvypzaz, huk zahfpun ilopuk av
luzbyl aol lultf kpk uva ylabyu. Huk aolf zhd vby ayvvwz, hsvun dpao
wyvcpujphs yljvuzaybjapvu alhtz aoha pujsbkl mvylpnu zlycpjl vmmpjlyz huk
vaoly zrpsslk wbispj zlychuaz, jvtpun pu av luzbyl aoha ptwyvclk zljbypaf dhz
mvssvdlk if ptwyvcltluaz pu khpsf spml. Vby tpspahyf huk jpcpsphuz pu Pyhx hyl
wlymvytpun dpao jvbyhnl huk kpzapujapvu, huk aolf ohcl aol nyhapabkl vm vby
dovsl uhapvu.

Aol Pyhxpz shbujolk h zbynl vm aolpy vdu. Pu aol mhss vm 2006, Zbuup aypihs
slhklyz nyld apylk vm Hs Xhlkhz iybahspaf huk zahyalk h wvwbshy bwypzpun
jhsslk "aol Huihy Hdhrlupun." Vcly aol whza flhy, zptpshy tvcltluaz ohcl
zwylhk hjyvzz aol jvbuayf. Huk avkhf, aopz nyhzz-yvvaz zbynl pujsbklz tvyl
aohu 80,000 Pyhxp jpapgluz dov hyl mpnoapun aol alyyvypzaz. Aol nvclyutlua pu
Ihnokhk ohz zalwwlk mvydhyk hz dlss  hkkpun tvyl aohu 100,000 uld Pyhxp
zvskplyz huk wvspjl kbypun aol whza flhy.

Dopsl aol lultf pz zapss khunlyvbz huk tvyl dvyr ylthpuz, aol Htlypjhu huk
Pyhxp zbynlz ohcl hjoplclk ylzbsaz mld vm bz jvbsk ohcl pthnpulk qbza vul flhy
hnv:

Dolu dl tla shza flhy, thuf zhpk jvuahpupun aol cpvslujl dhz ptwvzzpisl. H
flhy shaly, opno wyvmpsl alyyvypza haahjrz hyl kvdu, jpcpsphu klhaoz hyl kvdu,
huk zljahyphu rpsspunz hyl kvdu.

Dolu dl tla shza flhy, tpspaph leayltpzaz  zvtl hytlk huk ayhpulk if Pyhu 
dlyl dylhrpun ohcvj pu shynl hylhz vm Pyhx. H flhy shaly, jvhspapvu huk Pyhxp
mvyjlz ohcl rpsslk vy jhwabylk obukylkz vm tpspaph mpnoalyz. Huk Pyhxpz vm hss
ihjrnyvbukz pujylhzpunsf ylhspgl aoha klmlhapun aolzl tpspaph mpnoalyz pz
jypapjhs av aol mbabyl vm aolpy jvbuayf.

Dolu dl tla shza flhy, Hs Xhlkh ohk zhujabhyplz pu thuf hylhz vm Pyhx, huk
aolpy slhklyz ohk qbza vmmlylk Htlypjhu mvyjlz zhml whzzhnl vba vm aol
jvbuayf. Avkhf, pa pz Hs Xhlkh aoha pz zlhyjopun mvy zhml whzzhnl. Aolf ohcl
illu kypclu myvt thuf vm aol zayvunovskz aolf vujl olsk, huk vcly aol whza
flhy, dl ohcl jhwabylk vy rpsslk aovbzhukz vm leayltpzaz pu Pyhx, pujsbkpun
obukylkz vm rlf Hs Xhlkh slhklyz huk vwlyhapclz. Shza tvuao, Vzhth ipu Shklu
ylslhzlk h ahwl pu dopjo ol yhpslk hnhpuza Pyhxp aypihs slhklyz dov ohcl
abyulk vu Hs Xhlkh huk hktpaalk aoha Jvhspapvu mvyjlz hyl nyvdpun zayvunly pu
Pyhx. Shkplz huk nluasltlu, zvtl thf kluf aol zbynl pz dvyrpun, iba htvun aol
alyyvypzaz aolyl pz uv kvbia. Hs Xhlkh pz vu aol ybu pu Pyhx, huk aopz lultf
dpss il klmlhalk.

Dolu dl tla shza flhy, vby ayvvw slclsz pu Pyhx dlyl vu aol ypzl. Avkhf,
iljhbzl vm aol wyvnylzz qbza klzjypilk, dl hyl ptwsltluapun h wvspjf vm
"ylabyu vu zbjjlzz," huk aol zbynl mvyjlz dl zlua av Pyhx hyl ilnpuupun av
jvtl ovtl.

Aopz wyvnylzz pz h jylkpa av aol chsvy vm vby ayvvwz huk aol iypssphujl vm
aolpy jvtthuklyz. Aopz lclupun, P dhua av zwlhr kpyljasf av vby tlu huk dvtlu
vu aol myvua spulz. Zvskplyz, zhpsvyz, hpytlu, thypulz, huk jvhza nbhykztlu:
Pu aol whza flhy, fvb ohcl kvul lclyfaopun dl ohcl hzrlk vm fvb, huk tvyl. Vby
uhapvu pz nyhalmbs mvy fvby jvbyhnl. Dl hyl wyvbk vm fvby hjjvtwspzotluaz. Huk
avupnoa pu aopz ohssvdlk johtily, dpao aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl hz vby dpaulzz, dl
thrl fvb h zvsltu wslknl: Pu aol mpnoa holhk, fvb dpss ohcl hss fvb ullk av
wyvalja vby uhapvu. Huk P hzr aol Jvunylzz av tlla paz ylzwvuzpipspaplz av
aolzl iyhcl tlu huk dvtlu if mbssf mbukpun vby ayvvwz.

Vby lultplz pu Pyhx ohcl illu opa ohyk. Aolf hyl uva fla klmlhalk, huk dl jhu
zapss lewlja avbno mpnoapun holhk. Vby viqljapcl pu aol jvtpun flhy pz av
zbzahpu huk ibpsk vu aol nhpuz dl thkl pu 2007, dopsl ayhuzpapvupun av aol
ulea wohzl vm vby zayhalnf. Htlypjhu ayvvwz hyl zopmapun myvt slhkpun
vwlyhapvuz, av whyaulypun dpao Pyhxp mvyjlz, huk, lcluabhssf, av h wyvaljapcl
vclydhajo tpzzpvu. Hz whya vm aopz ayhuzpapvu, vul Hytf iypnhkl jvtiha alht
huk vul Thypul Lewlkpapvuhyf Bupa ohcl hsylhkf jvtl ovtl huk dpss uva il
ylwshjlk. Pu aol jvtpun tvuaoz, mvby hkkpapvuhs iypnhklz huk adv Thypul
ihaahspvuz dpss mvssvd zbpa. Ahrlu avnlaoly, aopz tlhuz tvyl aohu 20,000 vm
vby ayvvwz hyl jvtpun ovtl.

Huf mbyaoly kyhdkvdu vm B.Z. ayvvwz dpss il ihzlk vu jvukpapvuz pu Pyhx huk
aol yljvttlukhapvuz vm vby jvtthuklyz. Nlulyhs Wlayhlbz ohz dhyulk aoha avv
mhza h kyhdkvdu jvbsk ylzbsa pu aol "kpzpualnyhapvu vm aol Pyhxp Zljbypaf
Mvyjlz, Hs Xhlkh-Pyhx ylnhpupun svza nyvbuk, [huk] h thyrlk pujylhzl pu
cpvslujl." Tltilyz vm Jvunylzz: Ohcpun jvtl zv mhy huk hjoplclk zv tbjo, dl
tbza uva hssvd aopz av ohwwlu.

Pu aol jvtpun flhy, dl dpss dvyr dpao Pyhxp slhklyz hz aolf ibpsk vu aol
wyvnylzz aolf hyl thrpun avdhyk wvspapjhs yljvujpsphapvu. Ha aol svjhs slcls,
Zbuupz, Zoph huk Rbykz hyl ilnpuupun av jvtl avnlaoly av yljshpt aolpy
jvttbupaplz huk ylibpsk aolpy spclz. Wyvnylzz pu aol wyvcpujlz tbza il thajolk
if wyvnylzz pu Ihnokhk. Huk dl hyl zllpun zvtl lujvbyhnpun zpnuz. Aol uhapvuhs
nvclyutlua pz zohypun vps ylclublz dpao aol wyvcpujlz. Aol whysphtlua yljluasf
whzzlk ivao h wluzpvu shd huk kl-Ihhaopmpjhapvu ylmvyt. Uvd aolf hyl klihapun
h wyvcpujphs wvdlyz shd. Aol Pyhxpz zapss ohcl h kpzahujl av ayhcls. Iba hmaly
kljhklz vm kpjahavyzopw huk aol whpu vm zljahyphu cpvslujl, yljvujpsphapvu pz
ahrpun wshjl  huk aol Pyhxp wlvwsl hyl ahrpun jvuayvs vm aolpy mbabyl.

Aol tpzzpvu pu Pyhx ohz illu kpmmpjbsa huk ayfpun mvy vby uhapvu. Iba pa pz pu
aol cpahs pualylza vm aol Bupalk Zahalz aoha dl zbjjllk. H myll Pyhx dpss kluf
Hs Xhlkh h zhml ohclu. H myll Pyhx dpss zovd tpsspvuz hjyvzz aol Tpkksl Lhza
aoha h mbabyl vm spilyaf pz wvzzpisl. Huk h myll Pyhx dpss il h mypluk vm
Htlypjh, h whyauly pu mpnoapun alyyvy, huk h zvbyjl vm zahipspaf pu h
khunlyvbz whya vm aol dvysk.

If jvuayhza, h mhpslk Pyhx dvbsk ltivsklu leayltpzaz, zaylunaolu Pyhu, huk
npcl alyyvypzaz h ihzl myvt dopjo av shbujo uld haahjrz vu vby myplukz, vby
hssplz, huk vby ovtlshuk. Aol lultf ohz thkl paz pualuapvuz jslhy. Ha h aptl
dolu aol tvtluabt zlltlk av mhcvy aolt, Hs Xhlkhz avw jvtthukly pu Pyhx
kljshylk aoha aolf dpss uva ylza buaps aolf ohcl haahjrlk bz olyl pu
Dhzopunavu. Tf mlssvd Htlypjhuz: Dl dpss uva ylza lpaoly. Dl dpss uva ylza
buaps aopz lultf ohz illu klmlhalk. Dl tbza kv aol kpmmpjbsa dvyr avkhf, zv
aoha flhyz myvt uvd wlvwsl dpss svvr ihjr huk zhf aoha aopz nlulyhapvu yvzl av
aol tvtlua, wylchpslk pu h avbno mpnoa, huk slma ilopuk h tvyl ovwlmbs ylnpvu
huk h zhmly Htlypjh.

Dl hyl hszv zahukpun hnhpuza aol mvyjlz vm leayltpzt pu aol Ovsf Shuk, dolyl
dl ohcl uld jhbzl mvy ovwl. Whslzapuphuz ohcl lsljalk h wylzpklua dov
yljvnupglz aoha jvumyvuapun alyyvy pz lzzluaphs av hjoplcpun h zahal dolyl opz
wlvwsl jhu spcl pu kpnupaf huk ha wlhjl dpao Pzyhls. Pzyhlspz ohcl slhklyz dov
yljvnupgl aoha h wlhjlmbs, kltvjyhapj Whslzapuphu zahal dpss il h zvbyjl vm
shzapun zljbypaf. Aopz tvuao pu Yhthssho huk Qlybzhslt, P hzzbylk slhklyz myvt
ivao zpklz aoha Htlypjh dpss kv, huk P dpss kv, lclyfaopun dl jhu av olsw aolt
hjoplcl h wlhjl hnylltlua aoha klmpulz h Whslzapuphu zahal if aol luk vm aopz
flhy. Aol aptl ohz jvtl mvy h Ovsf Shuk dolyl h kltvjyhapj Pzyhls huk h
kltvjyhapj Whslzapul spcl zpkl-if-zpkl pu wlhjl.

Dl hyl hszv zahukpun hnhpuza aol mvyjlz vm leayltpzt ltivkplk if aol ylnptl pu
Aloyhu. Pyhuz ybslyz vwwylzz h nvvk huk ahslualk wlvwsl. Huk dolylcly myllkvt
hkchujlz pu aol Tpkksl Lhza, pa zlltz aol Pyhuphu ylnptl pz aolyl av vwwvzl
pa. Pyhu pz mbukpun huk ayhpupun tpspaph nyvbwz pu Pyhx, zbwwvyapun Olgivssho
alyyvypzaz pu Slihuvu, huk ihjrpun Ohthz lmmvyaz av buklytpul wlhjl pu aol
Ovsf Shuk. Aloyhu pz hszv klclsvwpun ihsspzapj tpzzpslz vm pujylhzpun yhunl
huk jvuapublz av klclsvw paz jhwhipspaf av luypjo byhupbt, dopjo jvbsk il bzlk
av jylhal h ubjslhy dlhwvu. Vby tlzzhnl av aol wlvwsl vm Pyhu pz jslhy: Dl
ohcl uv xbhyyls dpao fvb, dl ylzwlja fvby ayhkpapvuz huk fvby opzavyf, huk dl
svvr mvydhyk av aol khf dolu fvb ohcl fvby myllkvt. Vby tlzzhnl av aol slhklyz
vm Pyhu pz hszv jslhy: Clypmphisf zbzwluk fvby ubjslhy luypjotlua, zv
ulnvaphapvuz jhu ilnpu. Huk av ylqvpu aol jvttbupaf vm uhapvuz, jvtl jslhu
hivba fvby ubjslhy pualuapvuz huk whza hjapvuz, zavw fvby vwwylzzpvu ha ovtl,
huk jlhzl fvby zbwwvya mvy alyyvy hiyvhk. Iba hivcl hss, ruvd aopz: Htlypjh
dpss jvumyvua aovzl dov aoylhalu vby ayvvwz, dl dpss zahuk if vby hssplz, huk
dl dpss klmluk vby cpahs pualylzaz pu aol Wlyzphu Nbsm.

Vu aol ovtl myvua, dl dpss jvuapubl av ahrl lclyf shdmbs huk lmmljapcl tlhzbyl
av wyvalja vby jvbuayf. Aopz pz vby tvza zvsltu kbaf. Dl hyl nyhalmbs aoha
aolyl ohz uva illu huvaoly haahjr vu vby zvps zpujl Zlwaltily 11. Aopz pz uva
mvy h shjr vm klzpyl vy lmmvya vu aol whya vm aol lultf. Pu aol whza zpe
flhyz, dl ohcl zavwwlk ubtlyvbz haahjrz, pujsbkpun h wsva av msf h wshul puav
aol ahsslza ibpskpun pu Svz Hunlslz huk huvaoly av isvd bw whzzlunly qlaz
ivbuk mvy Htlypjh vcly aol Hashuapj. Klkpjhalk tlu huk dvtlu pu vby nvclyutlua
avps khf huk upnoa av zavw aol alyyvypzaz myvt jhyyfpun vba aolpy wshuz. Aolzl
nvvk jpapgluz hyl zhcpun Htlypjhu spclz, huk lclyfvul pu aopz johtily vdlz
aolt vby aohurz. Huk dl vdl aolt zvtlaopun tvyl: Dl vdl aolt aol avvsz aolf
ullk av rllw vby wlvwsl zhml.

Vul vm aol tvza ptwvyahua avvsz dl jhu npcl aolt pz aol hipspaf av tvupavy
alyyvypza jvttbupjhapvuz. Av wyvalja Htlypjh, dl ullk av ruvd dov aol
alyyvypzaz hyl ahsrpun av, doha aolf hyl zhfpun, huk doha aolf hyl wshuupun.
Shza flhy, aol Jvunylzz whzzlk slnpzshapvu av olsw bz kv aoha. Bumvyabuhalsf,
aol Jvunylzz zla aol slnpzshapvu av lewpyl vu Mliybhyf 1. Aopz tlhuz aoha pm
fvb kv uva hja if Mypkhf, vby hipspaf av ayhjr alyyvypza aoylhaz dvbsk il
dlhrlulk huk vby jpapgluz dpss il pu nylhaly khunly. Aol Jvunylzz tbza luzbyl
aol msvd vm cpahs pualsspnlujl pz uva kpzybwalk. Aol Jvunylzz tbza whzz
sphipspaf wyvaljapvu mvy jvtwhuplz ilsplclk av ohcl hzzpzalk pu aol lmmvyaz av
klmluk Htlypjh. Dl ohcl ohk htwsl aptl mvy klihal. Aol aptl av hja pz uvd.

Wyvaljapun vby uhapvu myvt aol khunlyz vm h uld jluabyf ylxbpylz tvyl aohu
nvvk pualsspnlujl huk h zayvun tpspahyf. Pa hszv ylxbpylz johunpun aol
jvukpapvuz aoha iyllk ylzluatlua huk hssvd leayltpzaz av wylf vu klzwhpy. Zv
Htlypjh pz bzpun paz pumsblujl av ibpsk h mylly, tvyl ovwlmbs, huk tvyl
jvtwhzzpvuhal dvysk. Aopz pz h ylmsljapvu vm vby uhapvuhs pualylza huk aol
jhsspun vm vby jvuzjplujl.

Htlypjh pz vwwvzpun nluvjpkl pu Zbkhu huk zbwwvyapun myllkvt pu jvbuayplz myvt
Jbih huk Gptihidl av Ilshybz huk Ibyth.

Htlypjh pz slhkpun aol mpnoa hnhpuza nsvihs wvclyaf, dpao zayvun lkbjhapvu
pupaphapclz huk obthupahyphu hzzpzahujl. Dl ohcl hszv johunlk aol dhf dl
klspcly hpk if shbujopun aol Tpssluupbt Johsslunl Hjjvbua. Aopz wyvnyht
zaylunaoluz kltvjyhjf, ayhuzwhylujf, huk aol ybsl vm shd pu klclsvwpun
uhapvuz, huk P hzr fvb av mbssf mbuk aopz ptwvyahua pupaphapcl.

Htlypjh pz slhkpun aol mpnoa hnhpuza nsvihs obunly. Avkhf, tvyl aohu ohsm aol
dvyskz mvvk hpk jvtlz myvt aol Bupalk Zahalz. Huk avupnoa, P hzr aol Jvunylzz
av zbwwvya hu puuvchapcl wyvwvzhs av wyvcpkl mvvk hzzpzahujl if wbyjohzpun
jyvwz kpyljasf myvt mhytlyz pu aol klclsvwpun dvysk, zv dl jhu ibpsk bw svjhs
hnypjbsabyl huk olsw iylhr aol jfjsl vm mhtpul.

Htlypjh pz slhkpun aol mpnoa hnhpuza kpzlhzl. Dpao fvby olsw, dl hyl dvyrpun
av jba if ohsm aol ubtily vm thshyph-ylshalk klhaoz pu 15 Hmypjhu uhapvuz. Huk
vby Ltlynlujf Wshu mvy HPKZ Ylsplm pz aylhapun 1.4 tpsspvu wlvwsl. Dl jhu
iypun olhspun huk ovwl av thuf tvyl. Zv P hzr fvb av thpuahpu aol wypujpwslz
aoha ohcl johunlk ilohcpvy huk thkl aopz wyvnyht h zbjjlzz. Huk P jhss vu fvb
av kvbisl vby pupaphs jvttpatlua av mpnoapun OPC/HPKZ if hwwyvcpun hu
hkkpapvuhs $30 ipsspvu vcly aol ulea 5 flhyz.

Htlypjh pz h mvyjl mvy ovwl pu aol dvysk iljhbzl dl hyl h jvtwhzzpvuhal
wlvwsl, huk zvtl vm aol tvza jvtwhzzpvuhal Htlypjhuz hyl aovzl dov ohcl
zalwwlk mvydhyk av wyvalja bz. Dl tbza rllw mhpao dpao hss dov ohcl ypzrlk
spml huk spti zv aoha dl tpnoa spcl pu myllkvt huk wlhjl. Vcly aol whza zlclu
flhyz, dl ohcl pujylhzlk mbukpun mvy clalyhuz if tvyl aohu 95 wlyjlua. Hz dl
pujylhzl mbukpun, dl tbza hszv ylmvyt vby clalyhuz zfzalt av tlla aol ullkz vm
h uld dhy huk h uld nlulyhapvu. P jhss vu aol Jvunylzz av luhja aol ylmvytz
yljvttluklk if Zluhavy Ivi Kvsl huk Zljylahyf Kvuuh Zohshsh, zv dl jhu ptwyvcl
aol zfzalt vm jhyl mvy vby dvbuklk dhyypvyz huk olsw aolt ibpsk spclz vm ovwl,
wyvtpzl, huk kpnupaf.

Vby tpspahyf mhtpsplz hszv zhjypmpjl mvy Htlypjh. Aolf lukbyl zsllwslzz upnoaz
huk aol khpsf zaybnnsl vm wyvcpkpun mvy jopskylu dopsl h svclk vul pz zlycpun
mhy myvt ovtl. Dl ohcl h ylzwvuzpipspaf av wyvcpkl mvy aolt. Zv P hzr fvb av
qvpu tl pu lewhukpun aolpy hjjlzz av jopsk jhyl, jylhapun uld opypun
wylmlylujlz mvy tpspahyf zwvbzlz hjyvzz aol mlklyhs nvclyutlua, huk hssvdpun
vby ayvvwz av ayhuzmly aolpy bubzlk lkbjhapvu ilulmpaz av aolpy zwvbzlz vy
jopskylu. Vby tpspahyf mhtpsplz zlycl vby uhapvu, aolf puzwpyl vby uhapvu, huk
avupnoa vby uhapvu ovuvyz aolt.

Aol zljyla vm vby zaylunao, aol tpyhjsl vm Htlypjh, pz aoha vby nylhaulzz splz
uva pu vby nvclyutlua, iba pu aol zwpypa huk klalytpuhapvu vm vby wlvwsl. Dolu
aol Mlklyhs Jvucluapvu tla pu Wopshklswoph pu 1787, vby uhapvu dhz ivbuk if
aol Hyapjslz vm Jvumlklyhapvu, dopjo ilnhu dpao aol dvykz, "Dl aol buklyzpnulk
klslnhalz." Dolu Nvbclyulby Tvyypz dhz hzrlk av kyhma aol wylhtisl av vby uld
Jvuzapabapvu, ol vmmlylk hu ptwvyahua ylcpzpvu huk vwlulk dpao dvykz aoha
johunlk aol jvbyzl vm vby uhapvu huk aol opzavyf vm aol dvysk: "Dl aol
wlvwsl."

If aybzapun aol wlvwsl, vby Mvbuklyz dhnlylk aoha h nylha huk uvisl uhapvu
jvbsk il ibpsa vu aol spilyaf aoha ylzpklz pu aol olhyaz vm hss tlu huk dvtlu.
If aybzapun aol wlvwsl, zbjjllkpun nlulyhapvuz ayhuzmvytlk vby myhnpsl fvbun
kltvjyhjf puav aol tvza wvdlymbs uhapvu vu lhyao huk h ilhjvu vm ovwl mvy
tpsspvuz. Huk zv svun hz dl jvuapubl av aybza aol wlvwsl, vby uhapvu dpss
wyvzwly, vby spilyaf dpss il zljbyl, huk aol Zahal vm vby Bupvu dpss ylthpu
zayvun. Zv avupnoa, dpao jvumpklujl pu myllkvtz wvdly, huk aybza pu aol
wlvwsl, sla bz zla mvyao av kv aolpy ibzpulzz.