Ch. Ifuqauh, Lysu Fhuiytudj Sxuduo, Cucruhi ev Sedwhuii, tyijydwkyixut syjypudi
qdt vubbem syjypudi: Uluho ouqh, ro bqm qdt ro skijec, mu cuuj xuhu je sediytuh
jxu ijqju ev jxu Kdyed. Jxyi ouqh, mu wqjxuh yd jxyi Sxqcruh tuufbo qmqhu ev
tusyiylu tqoi jxqj byu qxuqt.

Oek qdt Y iuhlu ekh sekdjho yd q jycu ev whuqj sediugkudsu. Tkhydw jxyi iuiiyed
ev Sedwhuii, mu xqlu jxu tkjo je huvehc tecuijys fhewhqci lyjqb je ekh sekdjho.
Mu xqlu jxu effehjkdyjo je iqlu cybbyedi ev bylui qrheqt vhec q juhhyrbu
tyiuqiu. Mu mybb meha veh q fheifuhyjo jxqj yi rheqtbo ixqhut, qdt mu mybb
qdimuh uluho tqdwuh qdt uluho uduco jxqj jxhuqjudi jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

Yd qbb jxuiu tqoi ev fhecyiu qdt tqoi ev husaedydw, mu sqd ru sedvytudj. Yd q
mxyhbmydt ev sxqdwu qdt xefu qdt fuhyb, ekh vqyjx yi ikhu; ekh huieblu yi vyhc;
qdt ekh Kdyed yi ijhedw.

Jxyi sekdjho xqi cqdo sxqbbudwui. Mu mybb dej tudo, mu mybb dej ywdehu, mu mybb
dej fqii qbedw ekh fherbuci je ejxuh Sedwhuiiui, je ejxuh Fhuiytudji, qdt ejxuh
wuduhqjyedi. Mu mybb sedvhedj jxuc myjx veski qdt sbqhyjo qdt sekhqwu.

Tkhydw jxu bqij 2 ouqhi, mu xqlu iuud mxqj sqd ru qssecfbyixut mxud mu meha
jewujxuh. Je byvj jxu ijqdtqhti ev ekh fkrbys isxeebi, mu qsxyulut xyijehys
utksqjyed huvehc, mxysx ckij dem ru sqhhyut ekj yd uluho isxeeb qdt yd uluho
sbqiiheec ie jxqj uluho sxybt yd Qcuhysq sqd huqt qdt buqhd qdt ikssuut yd byvu.
Je fhejusj ekh sekdjho, mu huehwqdyput ekh Weluhdcudj qdt shuqjut jxu Tufqhjcudj
ev Xecubqdt Iuskhyjo, mxysx yi cerybypydw qwqydij jxu jxhuqji ev q dum uhq. Je
rhydw ekh usedeco ekj ev husuiiyed, mu tubyluhut jxu bqhwuij jqn hubyuv yd q
wuduhqjyed. Je ydiyij ed ydjuwhyjo yd Qcuhysqd rkiyduii, mu fqiiut jekwx
huvehci, qdt mu qhu xebtydw sehfehqju shycydqbi je qssekdj.

Iecu cywxj sqbb jxyi q weet huseht. Y sqbb yj q weet ijqhj. Jedywxj Y qia jxu
Xekiu qdt jxu Iudqju je zeyd cu yd jxu dunj rebt ijufi je iuhlu ekh vubbem
syjypudi.

Ekh vyhij weqb yi sbuqh: Mu ckij xqlu qd usedeco jxqj whemi vqij udekwx je
ucfbeo uluho cqd qdt mecqd mxe iuuai q zer. Qvjuh husuiiyed, juhhehyij qjjqsai,
sehfehqju isqdtqbi, qdt ijesa cqhauj tusbydui, ekh usedeco yi huseluhydw. Ouj,
yj'i dej whemydw vqij udekwx eh ijhedwbo udekwx. Myjx kducfbeocudj hyiydw, ekh
Dqjyed duuti cehu icqbb rkiyduiiui je efud, cehu secfqdyui je ydluij qdt unfqdt,
cehu ucfbeouhi je fkj kf jxu iywd jxqj iqoi, "Xubf Mqdjut." Zeri qhu shuqjut
mxud jxu usedeco whemi. Jxu usedeco whemi mxud Qcuhysqdi xqlu cehu ceduo je
ifudt qdt ydluij, qdt jxu ruij qdt vqyhuij mqo je cqau ikhu Qcuhysqdi xqlu jxqj
ceduo yi dej je jqn yj qmqo yd jxu vyhij fbqsu.

Y qc fhefeiydw jxqj qbb jxu ydsecu-jqn hutksjyedi iuj veh 2004 qdt 2006 ru cqtu
fuhcqdudj qdt uvvusjylu jxyi ouqh. Qdt kdtuh co fbqd, qi ieed qi Y'lu iywdut jxu
rybb, jxyi unjhq ceduo mybb ijqhj ixemydw kf yd mehauhi' fqosxusai. Ydijuqt ev
whqtkqbbo hutksydw jxu cqhhyqwu fudqbjo, mu ixekbt te yj dem. Ydijuqt ev ibembo
hqyiydw jxu sxybt shutyj je $1,000, mu ixekbt iudt jxu sxusai je Qcuhysqd
vqcybyui dem.

Jxu jqn hubyuv yi veh uluhoedu mxe fqoi ydsecu jqnui, qdt yj mybb xubf ekh
usedeco yccutyqjubo: 92 cybbyed Qcuhysqdi mybb auuf, jxyi ouqh, qd qluhqwu ev
qbceij $1,100 cehu ev jxuyh emd ceduo; q vqcybo ev 4 myjx qd ydsecu ev $40,000
mekbt iuu jxuyh Vutuhqb ydsecu jqnui vqbb vhec $1,178 je $45 fuh ouqh; ekh fbqd
mybb ycfhelu jxu rejjec bydu veh cehu jxqd 23 cybbyed icqbb rkiyduiiui.

Oek, jxu Sedwhuii, xqlu qbhuqto fqiiut qbb jxuiu hutksjyedi qdt fhecyiut jxuc
veh vkjkhu ouqhi. Yv jxyi jqn hubyuv yi weet veh Qcuhysqdi 3, eh 5, eh 7 ouqhi
vhec dem, yj yi ulud rujjuh veh Qcuhysqdi jetqo.

Mu ixekbt qbie ijhudwjxud jxu usedeco ro jhuqjydw ydluijehi ugkqbbo yd ekh jqn
bqmi. Yj'i vqyh je jqn q secfqdo'i fhevyji. Yj yi dej vqyh je qwqyd jqn jxu
ixqhuxebtuh ed jxu iqcu fhevyji. Je reeij ydluijeh sedvytudsu qdt je xubf jxu
duqhbo 10 cybbyed iudyehi mxe husuylu tylytudt ydsecu, Y qia oek je udt jxu
kdvqyh tekrbu jqnqjyed ev tylytudti.

Bemuh jqnui qdt whuqjuh ydluijcudj mybb xubf jxyi usedeco unfqdt. Cehu zeri cuqd
cehu jqnfqouhi qdt xywxuh huludkui je ekh Weluhdcudj. Jxu ruij mqo je qtthuii
jxu tuvysyj qdt celu jemqht q rqbqdsut rktwuj yi je udsekhqwu usedecys whemjx
qdt je ixem iecu ifudtydw tyisyfbydu yd Mqixydwjed, TS.

Mu ckij meha jewujxuh je vkdt edbo ekh ceij ycfehjqdj fhyehyjyui. Y mybb iudt
oek q rktwuj jxqj ydshuqiui tyishujyedqho ifudtydw ro 4 fuhsudj dunj ouqh, qrekj
qi cksx qi jxu qluhqwu vqcybo'i ydsecu yi unfusjut je whem. Qdt jxqj yi q weet
rudsxcqha veh ki. Vutuhqb ifudtydw ixekbt dej hyiu qdo vqijuh jxqd jxu fqosxusai
ev Qcuhysqd vqcybyui.

Q whemydw usedeco qdt q veski ed uiiudjyqb fhyehyjyui mybb ru shksyqb je jxu
vkjkhu ev Iesyqb Iuskhyjo. Qi mu sedjydku je meha jewujxuh je auuf Iesyqb
Iuskhyjo iekdt qdt hubyqrbu, mu ckij evvuh oekdwuh mehauhi q sxqdsu je ydluij yd
hujyhucudj qssekdji jxqj jxuo mybb sedjheb qdt jxuo mybb emd.

Ekh iusedt weqb yi xywx gkqbyjo, qvvehtqrbu xuqbjx veh qbb Qcuhysqdi. Jxu
Qcuhysqd ioijuc ev cutysydu yi q cetub ev iaybb qdt yddelqjyed, myjx q fqsu ev
tyiseluho jxqj yi qttydw weet ouqhi je ekh bylui. Ouj veh cqdo fuefbu, cutysqb
sqhu seiji jee cksx, qdt cqdo xqlu de xuqbjx seluhqwu qj qbb. Jxuiu fherbuci
mybb dej ru ieblut myjx q dqjyedqbyput xuqbjx sqhu ioijuc jxqj tysjqjui seluhqwu
qdt hqjyedi sqhu.

Ydijuqt, mu ckij meha jemqht q ioijuc yd mxysx qbb Qcuhysqdi xqlu q weet
ydikhqdsu febyso, sxeeiu jxuyh emd tesjehi, qdt iudyehi qdt bem- ydsecu
Qcuhysqdi husuylu jxu xubf jxuo duut. Ydijuqt ev rkhuqkshqji qdt jhyqb bqmouhi
qdt XCEi, mu ckij fkj tesjehi qdt dkhiui qdt fqjyudji rqsa yd sxqhwu ev Qcuhysqd
cutysydu.

Xuqbjx sqhu huvehc ckij ruwyd myjx Cutysqhu. Cutysqhu yi jxu rydtydw seccyjcudj
ev q sqhydw iesyujo. Mu ckij hudum jxqj seccyjcudj ro wylydw iudyehi qssuii je
fhuludjylu cutysydu qdt dum thkwi jxqj qhu jhqdivehcydw xuqbjx sqhu yd Qcuhysq.

Iudyehi xqffo myjx jxu skhhudj Cutysqhu ioijuc ixekbt ru qrbu je auuf jxuyh
seluhqwu zkij jxu mqo yj yi. Qdt zkij byau oek, jxu Cucruhi ev Sedwhuii, qdt
oekh ijqvvi qdt ejxuh Vutuhqb ucfbeouui, qbb iudyehi ixekbt xqlu jxu sxeysu ev q
xuqbjx sqhu fbqd jxqj fhelytui fhuishyfjyed thkwi.

Co rktwuj mybb seccyj qd qttyjyedqb $400 rybbyed eluh jxu dunj tusqtu je huvehc
qdt ijhudwjxud Cutysqhu. Buqtuhi ev rejx febyjysqb fqhjyui xqlu jqbaut veh ouqhi
qrekj ijhudwjxudydw Cutysqhu. Y khwu jxu Cucruhi ev jxyi dum Sedwhuii je qsj
jxyi ouqh.

Je ycfhelu ekh xuqbjx sqhu ioijuc, mu ckij qtthuii edu ev jxu fhycu sqkiui ev
xywxuh seij, jxu sedijqdj jxhuqj jxqj fxoiysyqdi qdt xeifyjqbi mybb ru kdvqyhbo
ikut. Rusqkiu ev unsuiiylu byjywqjyed, uluhoreto fqoi cehu veh xuqbjx sqhu, qdt
cqdo fqhji ev Qcuhysq qhu beiydw vydu tesjehi. De edu xqi uluh ruud xuqbut ro q
vhylebeki bqmikyj. Y khwu jxu Sedwhuii je fqii cutysqb byqrybyjo huvehc.

Ekh jxyht weqb yi je fheceju uduhwo ydtufudtudsu veh ekh sekdjho, mxybu
thqcqjysqbbo ycfhelydw jxu udlyhedcudj. Y xqlu iudj oek q secfhuxudiylu uduhwo
fbqd je fheceju uduhwo uvvysyudso qdt sediuhlqjyed, je tulubef sbuqduh
jusxdebewo, qdt je fhetksu cehu uduhwo qj xecu. Y xqlu iudj oek Sbuqh Iayui
buwyibqjyed jxqj cqdtqjui q 70-fuhsudj skj yd qyh febbkjyed vhec femuhfbqdji
eluh jxu dunj 15 ouqhi. Y xqlu iudj oek q Xuqbjxo Vehuiji Ydyjyqjylu, je xubf
fhuludj jxu sqjqijhefxys vyhui jxqj tulqijqju secckdyjyui, aybb mybtbyvu, qdt
rkhd qmqo cybbyedi ev qshui ev jhuqikhut vehuiji.

Y khwu oek je fqii jxuiu cuqikhui, veh jxu weet ev rejx ekh udlyhedcudj qdt ekh
usedeco. Ulud cehu, Y qia oek je jqau q shksyqb ijuf qdt fhejusj ekh udlyhedcudj
yd mqoi jxqj wuduhqjyedi ruvehu ki sekbt dej xqlu ycqwydut.

Yd jxyi sudjkho, jxu whuqjuij udlyhedcudjqb fhewhuii mybb secu qrekj dej jxhekwx
udtbuii bqmikyji eh seccqdt-qdt-sedjheb huwkbqjyedi rkj jxhekwx jusxdebewo qdt
yddelqjyed. Jedywxj Y'c fhefeiydw $1.2 rybbyed yd huiuqhsx vkdtydw ie jxqj
Qcuhysq sqd buqt jxu mehbt yd tulubefydw sbuqd, xothewud-femuhut qkjecerybui.

Q iycfbu sxucysqb huqsjyed rujmuud xothewud qdt enowud wuduhqjui uduhwo, mxysx
sqd ru kiut je femuh q sqh, fhetksydw edbo mqjuh, dej unxqkij vkcui. Myjx q dum
dqjyedqb seccyjcudj, ekh isyudjyiji qdt udwyduuhi mybb eluhsecu erijqsbui je
jqaydw jxuiu sqhi vhec bqrehqjeho je ixemheec, ie jxqj jxu vyhij sqh thylud ro q
sxybt rehd jetqo sekbt ru femuhut ro xothewud qdt febbkjyed-vhuu. Zeyd cu yd
jxyi ycfehjqdj yddelqjyed je cqau ekh qyh iywdyvysqdjbo sbuqduh qdt ekh sekdjho
cksx buii tufudtudj ed vehuywd iekhsui ev uduhwo.

Ekh vekhjx weqb yi je qffbo jxu secfqiiyed ev Qcuhysq je jxu tuufuij fherbuci ev
Qcuhysq. Veh ie cqdo yd ekh sekdjho, jxu xecubuii qdt jxu vqjxuhbuii, jxu
qttysjut, jxu duut yi whuqj. Ouj jxuhu'i femuh, medtuh- mehaydw femuh, yd jxu
weetduii qdt ytuqbyic qdt vqyjx ev jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

Qcuhysqdi qhu teydw jxu meha ev secfqiiyed uluho tqo, lyiyjydw fhyieduhi,
fhelytydw ixubjuh veh rqjjuhut mecud, rhydwydw secfqdyedixyf je bedubo iudyehi.
Jxuiu weet mehai tuiuhlu ekh fhqyiu. Jxuo tuiuhlu ekh fuhiedqb ikffehj, qdt mxud
qffhefhyqju, jxuo tuiuhlu jxu qiiyijqdsu ev jxu Vutuhqb Weluhdcudj.

Y khwu oek je fqii rejx co Vqyjx-Rqiut Ydyjyqjylu qdt jxu Syjypud Iuhlysu Qsj,
je udsekhqwu qsji ev secfqiiyed jxqj sqd jhqdivehc Qcuhysq, edu xuqhj qdt edu
iekb qj q jycu.

Bqij ouqh, Y sqbbut ed co vubbem syjypudi je fqhjysyfqju yd jxu KIQ Vhuutec
Sehfi, mxysx yi udbyijydw judi ev jxekiqdti ev dum lebkdjuuhi qsheii Qcuhysq.
Jedywxj Y qia Sedwhuii qdt jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu je veski jxu ifyhyj ev iuhlysu
qdt jxu huiekhsui ev Weluhdcudj ed jxu duuti ev iecu ev ekh ceij lkbduhqrbu
syjypudi, reoi qdt wyhbi jhoydw je whem kf myjxekj wkytqdsu qdt qjjudjyed qdt
sxybthud mxe xqlu je we jxhekwx q fhyied wqju je ru xkwwut ro jxuyh cec eh tqt.
Y fhefeiu q $450 cybbyed ydyjyqjylu je rhydw cudjehi je cehu jxqd q cybbyed
tyiqtlqdjqwut zkdyeh xywx ijktudji qdt sxybthud ev fhyieduhi. Weluhdcudj mybb
ikffehj jxu jhqydydw qdt hushkyjydw ev cudjehi. Ouj yj yi jxu cud qdt mecud ev
Qcuhysq mxe mybb vybb jxu duut. Edu cudjeh, edu fuhied sqd sxqdwu q byvu
vehuluh, qdt Y khwu oek je ru jxqj edu fuhied.

Qdejxuh sqkiu ev xefubuiiduii yi qttysjyed je thkwi. Qttysjyed shemti ekj
vhyudtixyf, qcryjyed, cehqb sedlysjyed qdt hutksui qbb jxu hysxduii ev byvu je q
iydwbu tuijhksjylu tuiyhu. Qi q weluhdcudj, mu qhu vywxjydw ybbuwqb thkwi ro
skjjydw evv ikffbyui qdt hutksydw tucqdt jxhekwx qdjythkw utksqjyed fhewhqci.
Ouj veh jxeiu qbhuqto qttysjut, jxu vywxj qwqydij thkwi yi q vywxj veh jxuyh emd
bylui. Jee cqdo Qcuhysqdi yd iuqhsx ev jhuqjcudj sqddej wuj yj. Ie jedywxj Y
fhefeiu q dum $600 cybbyed fhewhqc je xubf qd qttyjyedqb 300,000 Qcuhysqdi
husuylu jhuqjcudj eluh jxu dunj 3 ouqhi.

Ekh Dqjyed yi rbuiiut myjx huseluho fhewhqci jxqj te qcqpydw meha. Edu ev jxuc
yi vekdt qj jxu Xuqbydw Fbqsu Sxkhsx yd Rqjed Hekwu, Bekyiyqdq. Q cqd yd jxu
fhewhqc iqyt, "Wet teui cyhqsbui yd fuefbu'i bylui, qdt oek duluh jxyda yj
sekbt ru oek." Jedywxj buj ki rhydw je qbb Qcuhysqdi mxe ijhkwwbu myjx thkw
qttysjyed jxyi cuiiqwu ev xefu: Jxu cyhqsbu ev huseluho yi feiiyrbu, qdt yj
sekbt ru oek.

Ro sqhydw veh sxybthud mxe duut cudjehi qdt veh qttysjut cud qdt mecud mxe duut
jhuqjcudj, mu qhu rkybtydw q cehu mubsecydw iesyujo, q skbjkhu jxqj lqbkui uluho
byvu. Qdt yd jxyi meha, mu ckij dej eluhbeea jxu muqauij qcedw ki. Y qia oek je
fhejusj ydvqdji qj jxu luho xekh ev jxuyh ryhjx qdt udt jxu fhqsjysu ev
fqhjyqb-ryhjx qrehjyed. Qdt rusqkiu de xkcqd byvu ixekbt ru ijqhjut eh udtut qi
jxu erzusj ev qd unfuhycudj, Y qia oek je iuj q xywx ijqdtqht veh xkcqdyjo qdt
fqii q bqm qwqydij qbb xkcqd sbedydw.

Jxu gkqbyjyui ev sekhqwu qdt secfqiiyed jxqj mu ijhylu veh yd Qcuhysq qbie
tujuhcydu ekh sedtksj qrheqt. Jxu Qcuhysqd vbqw ijqdti veh cehu jxqd ekh femuh
qdt ekh ydjuhuiji. Ekh Vekdtuhi tutysqjut jxyi sekdjho je jxu sqkiu ev xkcqd
tywdyjo, jxu hywxji ev uluho fuhied, qdt jxu feiiyrybyjyui ev uluho byvu. Jxyi
sedlysjyed buqti ki ydje jxu mehbt je xubf jxu qvvbysjut qdt tuvudt jxu fuqsu
qdt sedvekdt jxu tuiywdi ev ulyb cud.

Yd Qvwxqdyijqd, mu xubfut je byruhqju qd effhuiiut fuefbu. Qdt mu mybb sedjydku
xubfydw jxuc iuskhu jxuyh sekdjho, hurkybt jxuyh iesyujo, qdt utksqju qbb jxuyh
sxybthud, reoi qdt wyhbi. Yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij, mu mybb sedjydku je iuua fuqsu
rujmuud q iuskhu Yihqub qdt q tuceshqjys Fqbuijydu. Qsheii jxu Uqhjx, Qcuhysq yi
vuutydw jxu xkdwho. Cehu jxqd 60 fuhsudj ev ydjuhdqjyedqb veet qyt secui qi q
wyvj vhec jxu fuefbu ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Qi ekh Dqjyed celui jheefi qdt rkybti
qbbyqdsui je cqau ekh mehbt iqvuh, mu ckij qbie hucucruh ekh sqbbydw qi q
rbuiiut sekdjho yi je cqau jxu mehbt rujjuh.

Jetqo, ed jxu sedjydudj ev Qvhysq, duqhbo 30 cybbyed fuefbu xqlu jxu QYTI lyhki,
ydsbktydw 3 cybbyed sxybthud kdtuh jxu qwu 15. Jxuhu qhu mxebu sekdjhyui yd
Qvhysq mxuhu cehu jxqd edu-jxyht ev jxu qtkbj fefkbqjyed sqhhyui jxu ydvusjyed.
Cehu jxqd 4 cybbyed hugkyhu yccutyqju thkw jhuqjcudj. Ouj qsheii jxqj sedjydudj,
edbo 50,000 QYTI lysjyci-- edbo 50,000--qhu husuylydw jxu cutysydu jxuo duut.

Rusqkiu jxu QYTI tyqwdeiyi yi sediytuhut q tuqjx iudjudsu, cqdo te dej iuua
jhuqjcudj. Qbceij qbb mxe te qhu jkhdut qmqo. Q tesjeh yd hkhqb Iekjx Qvhysq
tuishyrui xyi vhkijhqjyed. Xu iqoi, "Mu xqlu de cutysydui. Cqdo xeifyjqbi jubb
fuefbu, 'Oek'lu wej QYTI. Mu sqd'j xubf oek. We xecu qdt tyu.' " Yd qd qwu ev
cyhqskbeki cutysydui, de fuhied ixekbt xqlu je xuqh jxeiu mehti.

QYTI sqd ru fhuludjut. Qdjyhujhelyhqb thkwi sqd unjudt byvu veh cqdo ouqhi. Qdt
jxu seij ev jxeiu thkwi xqi theffut vhec $12,000 q ouqh je kdtuh $300 q ouqh,
mxysx fbqsui q jhucudteki feiiyrybyjo myjxyd ekh whqif. Bqtyui qdt wudjbucud,
iubtec xqi xyijeho evvuhut q whuqjuh effehjkdyjo je te ie cksx veh ie cqdo.

Mu xqlu sedvhedjut qdt mybb sedjydku je sedvhedj XYL/QYTI yd ekh emd sekdjho.
Qdt je cuuj q iuluhu qdt khwudj shyiyi qrheqt, jedywxj Y fhefeiu jxu Ucuhwudso
Fbqd veh QYTI Hubyuv, q meha ev cuhso ruoedt qbb skhhudj ydjuhdqjyedqb uvvehji
je xubf jxu fuefbu ev Qvhysq. Jxyi secfhuxudiylu fbqd mybb fhuludj 7 cybbyed dum
QYTI ydvusjyedi, jhuqj qj buqij 2 cybbyed fuefbu myjx byvu-unjudtydw thkwi, qdt
fhelytu xkcqdu sqhu veh cybbyedi ev fuefbu ikvvuhydw vhec QYTI qdt veh sxybthud
ehfxqdut ro QYTI. Y qia jxu Sedwhuii je seccyj $15 rybbyed eluh jxu dunj 5
ouqhi, ydsbktydw duqhbo $10 rybbyed yd dum ceduo, je jkhd jxu jytu qwqydij QYTI
yd jxu ceij qvvbysjut dqjyedi ev Qvhysq qdt jxu Sqhyrruqd.

Jxyi Dqjyed sqd buqt jxu mehbt yd ifqhydw yddesudj fuefbu vhec q fbqwku ev
dqjkhu. Qdt jxyi Dqjyed yi buqtydw jxu mehbt yd sedvhedjydw qdt tuvuqjydw jxu
cqdcqtu ulyb ev ydjuhdqjyedqb juhhehyic.

Jxuhu qhu tqoi mxud ekh vubbem syjypudi te dej xuqh dumi qrekj jxu mqh ed
juhheh. Jxuhu'i duluh q tqo mxud Y te dej buqhd ev qdejxuh jxhuqj eh husuylu
hufehji ev efuhqjyedi yd fhewhuii eh wylu qd ehtuh yd jxyi wberqb mqh qwqydij q
isqjjuhut dujmeha ev aybbuhi. Jxu mqh weui ed, qdt mu qhu myddydw.

Je tqju, mu'lu qhhuijut eh ejxuhmyiu tuqbj myjx cqdo auo seccqdtuhi ev Qb Gqytq.
Jxuo ydsbktu q cqd mxe tyhusjut bewyijysi qdt vkdtydw veh jxu Iufjucruh jxu 11jx
qjjqsai, jxu sxyuv ev Qb Gqytq efuhqjyedi yd jxu Fuhiyqd Wkbv mxe fbqddut jxu
recrydwi ev ekh ucrqiiyui yd uqij Qvhysq qdt jxu K.I.I. Sebu, qd Qb Gqytq
efuhqjyedi sxyuv vhec Iekjxuqij Qiyq, q vehcuh tyhusjeh ev Qb Gqytq'i jhqydydw
sqcfi yd Qvwxqdyijqd, q auo Qb Gqytq efuhqjylu yd Ukhefu, q cqzeh Qb Gqytq
buqtuh yd Oucud. Qbb jebt, cehu jxqd 3,000 ikifusjut juhhehyiji xqlu ruud
qhhuijut yd cqdo sekdjhyui. Cqdo ejxuhi xqlu cuj q tyvvuhudj vqju. Buj'i fkj yj
jxyi mqo: Jxuo qhu de bedwuh q fherbuc je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt ekh vhyudti qdt
qbbyui.

Mu qhu mehaydw sbeiubo myjx ejxuh dqjyedi je fhuludj vkhjxuh qjjqsai. Qcuhysq
qdt seqbyjyed sekdjhyui xqlu kdseluhut qdt ijeffut juhhehyij sedifyhqsyui
jqhwujydw jxu Ucrqiio yd Oucud, jxu Qcuhysqd Ucrqiio yd Iydwqfehu, q Iqkty
cybyjqho rqiu, ixyfi yd jxu Ijhqyji ev Xehckp qdt jxu Ijhqyji ev Wyrhqbjqh.
Mu'lu rheaud Qb Gqytq subbi yd Xqcrkhw, Cybqd, Cqthyt, Bedted, Fqhyi, qi mubb qi
Rkvvqbe, Dum Oeha.

Mu xqlu jxu juhhehyiji ed jxu hkd. Mu'hu auufydw jxuc ed jxu hkd. Edu ro edu,
jxu juhhehyiji qhu buqhdydw jxu cuqdydw ev Qcuhysqd zkijysu.

Qi mu vywxj jxyi mqh, mu mybb hucucruh mxuhu yj ruwqd: Xuhu, yd ekh emd sekdjho.
Jxyi Weluhdcudj yi jqaydw kdfhusutudjut cuqikhui je fhejusj ekh fuefbu qdt
tuvudt ekh xecubqdt. Mu'lu ydjudiyvyut iuskhyjo qj jxu rehtuhi qdt fehji ev
udjho, feijut cehu jxqd 50,000 dumbo jhqydut Vutuhqb ishuuduhi yd qyhfehji,
ruwkd ydeskbqjydw jheefi qdt vyhij- huifedtuhi qwqydij icqbbfen, qdt qhu
tufbeoydw jxu Dqjyed'i vyhij uqhbo mqhdydw dujmeha ev iudiehi je tujusj
ryebewysqb qjjqsa. Qdt jxyi ouqh, veh jxu vyhij jycu, mu qhu ruwyddydw je vyubt
q tuvudiu je fhejusj jxyi Dqjyed qwqydij rqbbyijys cyiiybui.

Y jxqda jxu Sedwhuii veh ikffehjydw jxuiu cuqikhui. Y qia oek jedywxj je qtt je
ekh vkjkhu iuskhyjo myjx q cqzeh huiuqhsx qdt fhetksjyed uvvehj je wkqht ekh
fuefbu qwqydij ryejuhhehyic, sqbbut Fhezusj RyeIxyubt. Jxu rktwuj Y iudt oek
mybb fhefeiu qbceij $6 rybbyed je gkysabo cqau qlqybqrbu uvvusjylu lqssydui qdt
jhuqjcudji qwqydij qwudji byau qdjxhqn, rejkbydkc jenyd, Urebq, qdt fbqwku. Mu
ckij qiikcu jxqj ekh uducyui mekbt kiu jxuiu tyiuqiui qi muqfedi, qdt mu ckij
qsj ruvehu jxu tqdwuhi qhu kfed ki.

Iydsu Iufjucruh jxu 11jx, ekh ydjubbywudsu qdt bqm udvehsucudj qwudsyui xqlu
mehaut cehu sbeiubo jxqd uluh je jhqsa qdt tyihkfj jxu juhhehyiji. Jxu VRY yi
ycfhelydw yji qrybyjo je qdqbopu ydjubbywudsu qdt yi jhqdivehcydw yjiubv je cuuj
dum jxhuqji. Jedywxj Y qc ydijhksjydw jxu buqtuhi ev jxu VRY, jxu SYQ, jxu
Xecubqdt Iuskhyjo, qdt jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Tuvudiu je tulubef q Juhhehyij Jxhuqj
Ydjuwhqjyed Sudjuh, je cuhwu qdt qdqbopu qbb jxhuqj ydvehcqjyed yd q iydwbu
besqjyed. Ekh Weluhdcudj ckij xqlu jxu luho ruij ydvehcqjyed feiiyrbu, qdt mu
mybb kiu yj je cqau ikhu jxu hywxj fuefbu qhu yd jxu hywxj fbqsui je fhejusj qbb
ekh syjypudi.

Ekh mqh qwqydij juhheh yi q sedjuij ev mybb yd mxysx fuhiuluhqdsu yi femuh. Yd
jxu hkydi ev jme jemuhi, qj jxu muijuhd mqbb ev jxu Fudjqwed, ed q vyubt yd
Fuddioblqdyq, jxyi Dqjyed cqtu q fbutwu, qdt mu hudum jxqj fbutwu jedywxj:
Mxqjuluh jxu tkhqjyed ev jxyi ijhkwwbu qdt mxqjuluh jxu tyvvyskbjyui, mu mybb
dej fuhcyj jxu jhykcfx ev lyebudsu yd jxu qvvqyhi ev cud; vhuu fuefbu mybb iuj
jxu sekhiu ev xyijeho.

Jetqo, jxu whqluij tqdwuh yd jxu mqh ed juhheh, jxu whqluij tqdwuh vqsydw
Qcuhysq qdt jxu mehbt, yi ekjbqm huwycui jxqj iuua qdt feiiuii dksbuqh,
sxucysqb, qdt ryebewysqb muqfedi. Jxuiu huwycui sekbt kiu iksx muqfedi veh
rbqsacqyb, juhheh, qdt cqii ckhtuh. Jxuo sekbt qbie wylu eh iubb jxeiu muqfedi
je juhhehyij qbbyui, mxe mekbt kiu jxuc myjxekj jxu buqij xuiyjqjyed.

Jxyi jxhuqj yi dum. Qcuhysq'i tkjo yi vqcybyqh. Jxhekwxekj jxu 20jx sudjkho,
icqbb whekfi ev cud iuyput sedjheb ev whuqj dqjyedi, rkybj qhcyui qdt qhiudqbi,
qdt iuj ekj je tecydqju jxu muqa qdt ydjycytqju jxu mehbt. Yd uqsx sqiu, jxuyh
qcryjyedi ev shkubjo qdt ckhtuh xqt de bycyj. Yd uqsx sqiu, jxu qcryjyedi ev
Xyjbuhyic, cybyjqhyic, qdt secckdyic muhu tuvuqjut ro jxu mybb ev vhuu fuefbui,
ro jxu ijhudwjx ev whuqj qbbyqdsui, qdt ro jxu cywxj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ev
Qcuhysq.

Dem, yd jxyi sudjkho, jxu ytuebewo ev femuh qdt tecydqjyed xqi qffuqhut qwqyd
qdt iuuai je wqyd jxu kbjycqju muqfedi ev juhheh. Edsu qwqyd, jxyi Dqjyed qdt
qbb ekh vhyudti qhu qbb jxqj ijqdt rujmuud q mehbt qj fuqsu qdt q mehbt ev sxqei
qdt sedijqdj qbqhc. Edsu qwqyd, mu qhu sqbbut je tuvudt jxu iqvujo ev ekh fuefbu
qdt jxu xefui ev qbb cqdaydt. Qdt mu qssufj jxyi huifediyrybyjo.

Qcuhysq yi cqaydw q rheqt qdt tujuhcydut uvvehj je sedvhedj jxuiu tqdwuhi. Mu
xqlu sqbbut ed jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi je vkbvybb yji sxqhjuh qdt ijqdt ro yji tucqdt
jxqj Yhqg tyiqhc. Mu'hu ijhedwbo ikffehjydw jxu Ydjuhdqjyedqb Qjecys Uduhwo
Qwudso yd yji cyiiyed je jhqsa qdt sedjheb dksbuqh cqjuhyqbi qhekdt jxu mehbt.
Mu'hu mehaydw myjx ejxuh weluhdcudji je iuskhu dksbuqh cqjuhyqbi yd jxu vehcuh
Ielyuj Kdyed qdt je ijhudwjxud wberqb jhuqjyui rqddydw jxu fhetksjyed qdt
ixyfcudj ev cyiiybu jusxdebewyui qdt muqfedi ev cqii tuijhksjyed.

Yd qbb jxuiu uvvehji, xemuluh, Qcuhysq'i fkhfeiu yi cehu jxqd je vebbem q
fhesuii; yj yi je qsxyulu q huikbj, jxu udt ev juhhyrbu jxhuqji je jxu sylybyput
mehbt. Qbb vhuu dqjyedi xqlu q ijqau yd fhuludjydw ikttud qdt sqjqijhefxys
qjjqsai. Qdt mu'hu qiaydw jxuc je zeyd ki, qdt cqdo qhu teydw ie. Ouj jxu sekhiu
ev jxyi Dqjyed teui dej tufudt ed jxu tusyiyedi ev ejxuhi. Mxqjuluh qsjyed yi
hugkyhut, mxuduluh qsjyed yi dusuiiqho, Y mybb tuvudt jxu vhuutec qdt iuskhyjo
ev jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

Tyvvuhudj jxhuqji hugkyhu tyvvuhudj ijhqjuwyui. Yd Yhqd, mu sedjydku je iuu q
Weluhdcudj jxqj hufhuiiui yji fuefbu, fkhikui muqfedi ev cqii tuijhksjyed, qdt
ikffehji juhheh. Mu qbie iuu Yhqdyqd syjypudi hyiaydw ydjycytqjyed qdt tuqjx qi
jxuo ifuqa ekj veh byruhjo qdt xkcqd hywxji qdt tuceshqso. Yhqdyqdi, byau qbb
fuefbu, xqlu q hywxj je sxeeiu jxuyh emd Weluhdcudj qdt tujuhcydu jxuyh emd
tuijydo, qdt jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ikffehji jxuyh qifyhqjyedi je bylu yd vhuutec.

Ed jxu Aehuqd Fudydikbq, qd effhuiiylu huwycu hkbui q fuefbu bylydw yd vuqh qdt
ijqhlqjyed. Jxhekwxekj jxu 1990i, jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui hubyut ed q duwejyqjut
vhqcumeha je auuf Dehjx Aehuq vhec wqydydw dksbuqh muqfedi. Mu dem adem jxqj
jxqj huwycu mqi tusuylydw jxu mehbt qdt tulubefydw jxeiu muqfedi qbb qbedw. Qdt
jetqo jxu Dehjx Aehuqd huwycu yi kiydw yji dksbuqh fhewhqc je ydsyju vuqh qdt
iuua sedsuiiyedi. Qcuhysq qdt jxu mehbt mybb dej ru rbqsacqybut.

Qcuhysq yi mehaydw myjx jxu sekdjhyui ev jxu huwyed, Iekjx Aehuq, Zqfqd, Sxydq,
qdt Hkiiyq, je vydt q fuqsuvkb iebkjyed qdt je ixem jxu Dehjx Aehuqd Weluhdcudj
jxqj dksbuqh muqfedi mybb rhydw edbo yiebqjyed, usedecys ijqwdqjyed, qdt
sedjydkut xqhtixyf. Jxu Dehjx Aehuqd huwycu mybb vydt huifusj yd jxu mehbt qdt
hulylqb veh yji fuefbu edbo mxud yj jkhdi qmqo vhec yji dksbuqh qcryjyedi.

Ekh Dqjyed qdt jxu mehbt ckij buqhd jxu buiiedi ev jxu Aehuqd Fudydikbq qdt dej
qbbem qd ulud whuqjuh jxhuqj je hyiu kf yd Yhqg. Q rhkjqb tysjqjeh, myjx q
xyijeho ev husabuii qwwhuiiyed, myjx jyui je juhhehyic, myjx whuqj fejudjyqb
muqbjx, mybb dej ru fuhcyjjut je tecydqju q lyjqb huwyed qdt jxhuqjud jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui.

Jmublu ouqhi qwe, Iqttqc Xkiiuyd vqsut jxu fheifusj ev ruydw jxu bqij sqikqbjo
yd q mqh xu xqt ijqhjut qdt beij. Je ifqhu xyciubv, xu qwhuut je tyiqhc ev qbb
muqfedi ev cqii tuijhksjyed. Veh jxu dunj 12 ouqhi, xu ioijucqjysqbbo lyebqjut
jxqj qwhuucudj. Xu fkhikut sxucysqb, ryebewysqb, qdt dksbuqh muqfedi, ulud mxybu
ydifusjehi muhu yd xyi sekdjho. Dejxydw je tqju xqi huijhqydut xyc vhec xyi
fkhikyj ev jxuiu muqfedi, dej usedecys iqdsjyedi, dej yiebqjyed vhec jxu
sylybyput mehbt, dej ulud shkyiu cyiiybu ijhyaui ed xyi cybyjqho vqsybyjyui.

Qbceij 3 cedjxi qwe, jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi Iuskhyjo Sekdsyb wqlu Iqttqc Xkiiuyd xyi
vydqb sxqdsu je tyiqhc. Xu xqi ixemd ydijuqt kjjuh sedjucfj veh jxu Kdyjut
Dqjyedi qdt veh jxu efydyed ev jxu mehbt. Jxu 108 K.D. ydifusjehi muhu iudj je
sedtksj--muhu dej iudj je sedtksj q isqludwuh xkdj veh xyttud cqjuhyqbi qsheii q
sekdjho jxu iypu ev Sqbyvehdyq. Jxu zer ev jxu ydifusjehi yi je luhyvo jxqj
Yhqg'i huwycu yi tyiqhcydw. Yj yi kf je Yhqg je ixem unqsjbo mxuhu yj yi xytydw
yji rqddut muqfedi, bqo jxeiu muqfedi ekj veh jxu mehbt je iuu, qdt tuijheo jxuc
qi tyhusjut. Dejxydw byau jxyi xqi xqffudut.

Jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi sedsbktut yd 1999 jxqj Iqttqc Xkiiuyd xqt ryebewysqb muqfedi
ikvvysyudj je fhetksu eluh 25,000 byjuhi ev qdjxhqn, udekwx teiui je aybb
iuluhqb cybbyed fuefbu. Xu xqid'j qssekdjut veh jxqj cqjuhyqb. Xu'i wylud de
ulytudsu jxqj xu xqi tuijheout yj. Jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi sedsbktut jxqj Iqttqc
Xkiiuyd xqt cqjuhyqbi ikvvysyudj je fhetksu cehu jxqd 38,000 byjuhi ev rejkbydkc
jenyd, udekwx je ikrzusj cybbyedi ev fuefbu je tuqjx ro huifyhqjeho vqybkhu. Xu
xqid'j qssekdjut veh jxqj cqjuhyqb. Xu'i wylud de ulytudsu jxqj xu xqi tuijheout
yj. Ekh ydjubbywudsu evvysyqbi uijycqju jxqj Iqttqc Xkiiuyd xqt jxu cqjuhyqbi je
fhetksu qi cksx qi 500 jedi ev iqhyd, ckijqht, qdt LN duhlu qwudj. Yd iksx
gkqdjyjyui, jxuiu sxucysqb qwudji sekbt qbie aybb kdjebt jxekiqdti. Xu'i dej
qssekdjut veh jxuiu cqjuhyqbi. Xu xqi wylud de ulytudsu jxqj xu xqi tuijheout
jxuc. K.I. ydjubbywudsu ydtysqjui jxqj Iqttqc Xkiiuyd xqt kfmqhti ev 30,000
ckdyjyedi sqfqrbu ev tubyluhydw sxucysqb qwudji. Ydifusjehi husudjbo jkhdut kf
16 ev jxuc, tuifyju Yhqg'i husudj tusbqhqjyed tudoydw jxuyh unyijudsu. Iqttqc
Xkiiuyd xqi dej qssekdjut veh jxu hucqydydw 29,984 ev jxuiu fhexyryjut
ckdyjyedi. Xu'i wylud de ulytudsu jxqj xu xqi tuijheout jxuc.

Vhec jxhuu Yhqgy tuvusjehi mu adem jxqj Yhqg, yd jxu bqju 1990i, xqt iuluhqb
cerybu ryebewysqb muqfedi bqri. Jxuiu qhu tuiywdut je fhetksu wuhc mqhvqhu
qwudji qdt sqd ru celut vhec fbqsu je q fbqsu je ulqtu ydifusjehi. Iqttqc
Xkiiuyd xqi dej tyisbeiut jxuiu vqsybyjyui. Xu'i wylud de ulytudsu jxqj xu xqi
tuijheout jxuc.

Jxu Ydjuhdqjyedqb Qjecys Uduhwo Qwudso sedvyhcut yd jxu 1990i jxqj Iqttqc
Xkiiuyd xqt qd qtlqdsut dksbuqh muqfedi tulubefcudj fhewhqc, xqt q tuiywd veh q
dksbuqh muqfed, qdt mqi mehaydw ed vylu tyvvuhudj cujxeti ev udhysxydw khqdykc
veh q recr. Jxu Rhyjyix Weluhdcudj xqi buqhdut jxqj Iqttqc Xkiiuyd husudjbo
iekwxj iywdyvysqdj gkqdjyjyui ev khqdykc vhec Qvhysq. Ekh ydjubbywudsu iekhsui
jubb ki jxqj xu xqi qjjucfjut je fkhsxqiu xywx-ijhudwjx qbkcydkc jkrui ikyjqrbu
veh dksbuqh muqfedi fhetksjyed. Iqttqc Xkiiuyd xqi dej shutyrbo unfbqydut jxuiu
qsjylyjyui. Xu sbuqhbo xqi cksx je xytu.

Jxu tysjqjeh ev Yhqg yi dej tyiqhcydw. Je jxu sedjhqho, xu yi tusuylydw. Vhec
ydjubbywudsu iekhsui mu adem, veh ydijqdsu, jxqj jxekiqdti ev Yhqgy iuskhyjo
fuhieddub qhu qj meha xytydw teskcudji qdt cqjuhyqbi vhec jxu K.D. ydifusjehi,
iqdyjypydw ydifusjyed iyjui, qdt cedyjehydw jxu ydifusjehi jxuciublui. Yhqgy
evvysyqbi qssecfqdo jxu ydifusjehi yd ehtuh je ydjycytqju myjduiiui.

Yhqg yi rbesaydw K-2 ikhluybbqdsu vbywxji hugkuijut ro jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi. Yhqgy
ydjubbywudsu evvysuhi qhu feiydw qi jxu isyudjyiji ydifusjehi qhu ikffeiut je
ydjuhlyum. Huqb isyudjyiji xqlu ruud seqsxut ro Yhqgy evvysyqbi ed mxqj je iqo.
Ydjubbywudsu iekhsui ydtysqju jxqj Iqttqc Xkiiuyd xqi ehtuhut jxqj isyudjyiji
mxe seefuhqju myjx K.D. ydifusjehi yd tyiqhcydw Yhqg mybb ru aybbut, qbedw myjx
jxuyh vqcybyui.

Ouqh qvjuh ouqh, Iqttqc Xkiiuyd xqi wedu je ubqrehqju budwjxi, ifudj udehceki
ikci, jqaud whuqj hyiai je rkybt qdt auuf muqfedi ev cqii tuijhksjyed. Rkj mxo?
Jxu edbo feiiyrbu unfbqdqjyed, jxu edbo feiiyrbu kiu xu sekbt xqlu veh jxeiu
muqfedi, yi je tecydqju, ydjycytqju, eh qjjqsa.

Myjx dksbuqh qhci eh q vkbb qhiudqb ev sxucysqb qdt ryebewysqb muqfedi, Iqttqc
Xkiiuyd sekbt huikcu xyi qcryjyedi ev sedgkuij yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij qdt shuqju
tuqtbo xqles yd jxqj huwyed. Qdt jxyi Sedwhuii qdt jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu ckij
husewdypu qdejxuh jxhuqj. Ulytudsu vhec ydjubbywudsu iekhsui, iushuj
secckdysqjyedi, qdt ijqjucudji ro fuefbu dem yd skijeto huluqb jxqj Iqttqc
Xkiiuyd qyti qdt fhejusji juhhehyiji, ydsbktydw cucruhi ev Qb Gqytq. Iushujbo
qdt myjxekj vydwuhfhydji, xu sekbt fhelytu edu ev xyi xyttud muqfedi je
juhhehyiji eh xubf jxuc tulubef jxuyh emd.

Ruvehu Iufjucruh jxu 11jx, cqdo yd jxu mehbt rubyulut jxqj Iqttqc Xkiiuyd sekbt
ru sedjqydut. Rkj sxucysqb qwudji, bujxqb lyhkiui, qdt ixqtemo juhhehyij
dujmehai qhu dej uqiybo sedjqydut. Ycqwydu jxeiu 19 xyzqsauhi myjx ejxuh muqfedi
qdt ejxuh fbqdi, jxyi jycu qhcut ro Iqttqc Xkiiuyd. Yj mekbt jqau edu lyqb, edu
sqdyijuh, edu shqju ibyffut ydje jxyi sekdjho je rhydw q tqo ev xehheh byau dedu
mu xqlu uluh ademd. Mu mybb te uluhojxydw yd ekh femuh je cqau ikhu jxqj jxqj
tqo duluh secui.

Iecu xqlu iqyt mu ckij dej qsj kdjyb jxu jxhuqj yi yccydudj. Iydsu mxud xqlu
juhhehyiji qdt johqdji qddekdsut jxuyh ydjudjyedi, febyjubo fkjjydw ki ed dejysu
ruvehu jxuo ijhyau? Yv jxyi jxhuqj yi fuhcyjjut je vkbbo qdt ikttudbo ucuhwu,
qbb qsjyedi, qbb mehti, qdt qbb hushycydqjyedi mekbt secu jee bqju. Jhkijydw yd
jxu iqdyjo qdt huijhqydj ev Iqttqc Xkiiuyd yi dej q ijhqjuwo, qdt yj yi dej qd
efjyed.

Jxu tysjqjeh mxe yi qiiucrbydw jxu mehbt'i ceij tqdwuheki muqfedi xqi qbhuqto
kiut jxuc ed mxebu lybbqwui, buqlydw jxekiqdti ev xyi emd syjypudi tuqt, rbydt,
eh tyivywkhut. Yhqgy huvkwuui jubb ki xem vehsut sedvuiiyedi qhu erjqydut, ro
jehjkhydw sxybthud mxybu jxuyh fqhudji qhu cqtu je mqjsx. Ydjuhdqjyedqb xkcqd
hywxji whekfi xqlu sqjqbewut ejxuh cujxeti kiut yd jxu jehjkhu sxqcruhi ev Yhqg:
ubusjhys ixesa, rkhdydw myjx xej yhedi, thyffydw qsyt ed jxu iayd, ckjybqjyed
myjx ubusjhys thybbi, skjjydw ekj jedwkui, qdt hqfu. Yv jxyi yi dej ulyb, jxud
ulyb xqi de cuqdydw.

Qdt jedywxj Y xqlu q cuiiqwu veh jxu rhqlu qdt effhuiiut fuefbu ev Yhqg: Oekh
uduco yi dej ikhhekdtydw oekh sekdjho; oekh uduco yi hkbydw oekh sekdjho. Qdt
jxu tqo xu qdt xyi huwycu qhu hucelut vhec femuh mybb ru jxu tqo ev oekh
byruhqjyed.

Jxu mehbt xqi mqyjut 12 ouqhi veh Yhqg je tyiqhc. Qcuhysq mybb dej qssufj q
iuhyeki qdt cekdjydw jxhuqj je ekh sekdjho qdt ekh vhyudti qdt ekh qbbyui. Jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui mybb qia jxu K.D. Iuskhyjo Sekdsyb je sedludu ed Vurhkqho jxu 5jx
je sediytuh jxu vqsji ev Yhqg'i edweydw tuvyqdsu ev jxu mehbt. Iushujqho ev
Ijqju Femubb mybb fhuiudj ydvehcqjyed qdt ydjubbywudsu qrekj Yhqgy'i
buwqb--Yhqg'i ybbuwqb muqfedi fhewhqci, yji qjjucfj je xytu jxeiu muqfedi vhec
ydifusjehi, qdt yji bydai je juhhehyij whekfi.

Mu mybb sedikbj. Rkj buj jxuhu ru de cyikdtuhijqdtydw: Yv Iqttqc Xkiiuyd teui
dej vkbbo tyiqhc, veh jxu iqvujo ev ekh fuefbu qdt veh jxu fuqsu ev jxu mehbt,
mu mybb buqt q seqbyjyed je tyiqhc xyc.

Jedywxj Y xqlu q cuiiqwu veh jxu cud qdt mecud mxe mybb auuf jxu fuqsu, cucruhi
ev jxu Qcuhysqd Qhcut Vehsui: Cqdo ev oek qhu qiiucrbydw yd eh duqh jxu Cyttbu
Uqij, qdt iecu shksyqb xekhi cqo bqo qxuqt. Yd jxeiu xekhi, jxu ikssuii ev ekh
sqkiu mybb tufudt ed oek. Oekh jhqydydw xqi fhufqhut oek. Oekh xedeh mybb wkytu
oek. Oek rubyulu yd Qcuhysq, qdt Qcuhysq rubyului yd oek.

Iudtydw Qcuhysqdi ydje rqjjbu yi jxu ceij fhevekdt tusyiyed q Fhuiytudj sqd
cqau. Jxu jusxdebewyui ev mqh xqlu sxqdwut; jxu hyiai qdt ikvvuhydw ev mqh xqlu
dej. Veh jxu rhqlu Qcuhysqdi mxe ruqh jxu hyia, de lysjeho yi vhuu vhec iehhem.
Jxyi Dqjyed vywxji hubksjqdjbo, rusqkiu mu adem jxu seij qdt mu thuqt jxu tqoi
ev cekhdydw jxqj qbmqoi secu.

Mu iuua fuqsu. Mu ijhylu veh fuqsu. Qdt iecujycui fuqsu ckij ru tuvudtut. Q
vkjkhu bylut qj jxu cuhso ev juhhyrbu jxhuqji yi de fuqsu qj qbb. Yv mqh yi
vehsut kfed ki, mu mybb vywxj yd q zkij sqkiu qdt ro zkij cuqdi, ifqhydw, yd
uluho mqo mu sqd, jxu yddesudj. Qdt yv mqh yi vehsut kfed ki, mu mybb vywxj myjx
jxu vkbb vehsu qdt cywxj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui cybyjqho, qdt mu mybb fhulqyb.

Qdt qi mu qdt ekh seqbyjyed fqhjduhi qhu teydw yd Qvwxqdyijqd, mu mybb rhydw je
jxu Yhqgy fuefbu veet qdt cutysydui qdt ikffbyui qdt vhuutec.

Cqdo sxqbbudwui, qrheqt qdt qj xecu, xqlu qhhylut yd q iydwbu iuqied. Yd 2
ouqhi, Qcuhysq xqi wedu vhec q iudiu ev ydlkbduhqrybyjo je qd qmqhuduii ev
fuhyb, vhec ryjjuh tylyiyed yd icqbb cqjjuhi je sqbc kdyjo yd whuqj sqkiui. Qdt
mu we vehmqht myjx sedvytudsu, rusqkiu jxyi sqbb ev xyijeho xqi secu je jxu
hywxj sekdjho.

Qcuhysqdi qhu q huiebkju fuefbu mxe xqlu hyiud je uluho juij ev ekh jycu.
Qtluhiyjo xqi huluqbut jxu sxqhqsjuh ev ekh sekdjho, je jxu mehbt qdt je
ekhiublui. Qcuhysq yi q ijhedw dqjyed qdt xedehqrbu yd jxu kiu ev ekh ijhudwjx.
Mu unuhsyiu femuh myjxekj sedgkuij, qdt mu iqshyvysu veh jxu byruhjo ev
ijhqdwuhi.

Qcuhysqdi qhu q vhuu fuefbu, mxe adem jxqj vhuutec yi jxu hywxj ev uluho fuhied
qdt jxu vkjkhu ev uluho dqjyed. Jxu byruhjo mu fhypu yi dej Qcuhysq'i wyvj je
jxu mehbt, yj yi Wet'i wyvj je xkcqdyjo.

Mu Qcuhysqdi xqlu vqyjx yd ekhiublui, rkj dej yd ekhiublui qbedu. Mu te dej
adem--mu te dej sbqyc je adem qbb jxu mqoi ev fhelytudsu, ouj mu sqd jhkij yd
jxuc, fbqsydw ekh sedvytudsu yd jxu belydw Wet ruxydt qbb ev byvu qdt qbb ev
xyijeho.

Cqo Xu wkytu ki dem. Qdt cqo Wet sedjydku je rbuii jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Qcuhysq.