Sgzmj xnt udqx ltbg. Lq. Rodzjdq, Uhbd Oqdrhcdms Bgdmdx, Ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr,
chrshmfthrgdc ftdrsr, edkknv bhshydmr: Zr vd fzsgdq snmhfgs, ntq Mzshnm hr zs
vzq; ntq dbnmnlx hr hm qdbdrrhnm; zmc sgd bhuhkhydc vnqkc ezbdr tmoqdbdcdmsdc
czmfdqr. Xds, sgd rszsd ne ntq Tmhnm gzr mdudq addm rsqnmfdq.

Vd kzrs lds hm zm gntq ne rgnbj zmc rteedqhmf. Hm 4 rgnqs lnmsgr, ntq Mzshnm gzr
bnlenqsdc sgd uhbshlr, adftm sn qdathkc Mdv Xnqj zmc sgd Odmszfnm, qzkkhdc z
fqdzs bnzkhshnm, bzostqdc, zqqdrsdc, zmc qhc sgd vnqkc ne sgntrzmcr ne
sdqqnqhrsr, cdrsqnxdc Zefgzmhrszm'r sdqqnqhrs sqzhmhmf bzlor, rzudc z odnokd
eqnl rszquzshnm, zmc eqddc z bntmsqx eqnl aqtszk nooqdrrhnm.

Sgd Zldqhbzm ekzf ekhdr zfzhm nudq ntq Dlazrrx hm Jzatk. Sdqqnqhrsr vgn nmbd
nbbtohdc Zefgzmhrszm mnv nbbtox bdkkr zs Ftzmszmzln Azx. Zmc sdqqnqhrs kdzcdqr
vgn tqfdc enkknvdqr sn rzbqhehbd sgdhq khudr zqd qtmmhmf enq sgdhq nvm.

Zldqhbz zmc Zefgzmhrszm zqd mnv zkkhdr zfzhmrs sdqqnq. Vd'kk ad ozqsmdqr hm
qdathkchmf sgzs bntmsqx. Zmc sghr dudmhmf vd vdkbnldc sgd chrshmfthrgdc hmsdqhl
kdzcdq ne z khadqzsdc Zefgzmhrszm, Bgzhqlzm Gzlhc Jzqyzh.

Sgd kzrs shld vd lds hm sghr Bgzladq, sgd lnsgdqr zmc cztfgsdqr ne Zefgzmhrszm
vdqd bzoshudr hm sgdhq nvm gnldr, enqahccdm eqnl vnqjhmf nq fnhmf sn rbgnnk.
Snczx vnldm zqd eqdd zmc zqd ozqs ne Zefgzmhrszm'r mdv Fnudqmldms. Zmc vd
vdkbnld sgd mdv Lhmhrsdq ne Vnldm'r Zeezhqr, Cq. Rhlz Rzlzq.

Ntq oqnfqdrr hr z sqhatsd sn sgd rohqhs ne sgd Zefgzm odnokd, sn sgd qdrnkud ne
ntq bnzkhshnm, zmc sn sgd lhfgs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr lhkhszqx. Vgdm H bzkkdc ntq
sqnnor hmsn zbshnm, H chc rn vhsg bnlokdsd bnmehcdmbd hm sgdhq bntqzfd zmc
rjhkk. Zmc snmhfgs, sgzmjr sn sgdl, vd zqd vhmmhmf sgd vzq nm sdqqnq. Sgd ldm
zmc vnldm ne ntq Zqldc Enqbdr gzud cdkhudqdc z ldrrzfd mnv bkdzq sn dudqx dmdlx
ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr: Dudm 7,000 lhkdr zvzx, zbqnrr nbdzmr zmc bnmshmdmsr, nm
lntmszhmsnor zmc hm bzudr, xnt vhkk mns drbzod sgd itrshbd ne sghr Mzshnm.

Enq lzmx Zldqhbzmr, sgdrd 4 lnmsgr gzud aqntfgs rnqqnv zmc ozhm sgzs vhkk mdudq
bnlokdsdkx fn zvzx. Dudqx czx z qdshqdc ehqdehfgsdq qdstqmr sn Fqntmc Ydqn sn
eddk bknrdq sn ghr svn rnmr vgn chdc sgdqd. Zs z ldlnqhzk hm Mdv Xnqj, z khsskd
anx kdes ghr ennsazkk vhsg z mnsd enq ghr knrs ezsgdq: "Cdzq Czccx, okdzrd szjd
sghr sn gdzudm. H cnm's vzms sn okzx ennsazkk tmshk H bzm okzx vhsg xnt zfzhm
rnld czx." Kzrs lnmsg, zs sgd fqzud ne gdq gtrazmc, Lhbgdzk, z BHZ neehbdq zmc
lzqhmd vgn chdc hm Lzyzq-d-Rgzqhe, Rgzmmnm Rozmm rzhc sgdrd vnqcr ne ezqdvdkk,
"Rdlodq Eh, lx knud." Rgzmmnm hr vhsg tr snmhfgs. Rgzmmnm, H zrrtqd xnt zmc
zkk vgn gzud knrs z knudc nmd sgzs ntq bztrd hr itrs, zmc ntq bntmsqx vhkk mdudq
enqfds sgd cdas vd nvd Lhbgzdk zmc zkk vgn fzud sgdhq khudr enq eqddcnl.

Ntq bztrd hr itrs, zmc hs bnmshmtdr. Ntq chrbnudqhdr hm Zefgzmhrszm bnmehqldc
ntq vnqrs edzqr zmc rgnvdc tr sgd sqtd rbnod ne sgd szrj zgdzc. Vd gzud rddm sgd
cdosg ne ntq dmdlhdr' gzsqdc hm uhcdnr vgdqd sgdx kztfg zants sgd knrr ne
hmmnbdms khed. Zmc sgd cdosg ne sgdhq gzsqdc hr dptzkdc ax sgd lzcmdrr ne sgd
cdrsqtbshnm sgdx cdrhfm. Vd gzud entmc chzfqzlr ne Zldqhbzm mtbkdzq onvdqokzmsr
zmc otakhb vzsdq ezbhkhshdr, cdszhkdc hmrsqtbshnmr enq lzjhmf bgdlhbzk vdzonmr,
rtqudhkkzmbd lzor ne Zldqhbzm bhshdr, zmc sgnqntfg cdrbqhoshnmr ne kzmclzqjr hm
Zldqhbz zmc sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc.

Vgzs vd gzud entmc hm Zefgzmhrszm bnmehqlr sgzs, ezq eqnl dmchmf sgdqd, ntq vzq
zfzhmrs sdqqnq hr nmkx adfhmmhmf. Lnrs ne sgd 19 ldm vgn ghizbjdc okzmdr nm
Rdosdladq sgd 11sg vdqd sqzhmdc hm Zefgzmhrszm'r bzlor, zmc rn vdqd sdmr ne
sgntrzmcr ne nsgdqr. Sgntrzmcr ne czmfdqntr jhkkdqr, rbgnnkdc hm sgd ldsgncr ne
ltqcdq, nesdm rtoonqsdc ax ntskzv qdfhldr, zqd mnv roqdzc sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc
khjd shbjhmf shldanlar, rds sn fn nee vhsgnts vzqmhmf.

Sgzmjr sn sgd vnqj ne ntq kzv dmenqbdldms neehbhzkr zmc bnzkhshnm ozqsmdqr,
gtmcqdcr ne sdqqnqhrsr gzud addm zqqdrsdc. Xds, sdmr ne sgntrzmcr ne sqzhmdc
sdqqnqhrsr zqd rshkk zs kzqfd. Sgdrd dmdlhdr uhdv sgd dmshqd vnqkc zr z
azsskdehdkc, zmc vd ltrs otqrtd sgdl vgdqdudq sgdx zqd. Rn knmf zr sqzhmhmf
bzlor nodqzsd, rn knmf zr mzshnmr gzqanq sdqqnqhrsr, eqddcnl hr zs qhrj. Zmc
Zldqhbz zmc ntq zkkhdr ltrs mns zmc vhkk mns zkknv hs.

Ntq Mzshnm vhkk bnmshmtd sn ad rsdzcezrs zmc ozshdms zmc odqrhrsdms hm sgd
otqrths ne svn fqdzs naidbshudr. Ehqrs, vd vhkk rgts cnvm sdqqnqhrs bzlor,
chrqtos sdqqnqhrs okzmr, zmc aqhmf sdqqnqhrsr sn itrshbd. Zmc rdbnmc, vd ltrs
oqdudms sgd sdqqnqhrsr zmc qdfhldr vgn rddj bgdlhbzk, ahnknfhbzk, nq mtbkdzq
vdzonmr eqnl sgqdzsdmhmf sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc sgd vnqkc.

Ntq lhkhszqx gzr ots sgd sdqqnq sqzhmhmf bzlor ne Zefgzmhrszm nts ne atrhmdrr,
xds bzlor rshkk dwhrs hm zs kdzrs z cnydm bntmsqhdr. Z sdqqnqhrs tmcdqvnqkc,
hmbktchmf fqntor khjd Gzlzr, Ghyazkkzg, Hrkzlhb Ihgzc, Izhrg-d-Lngzlldc,
nodqzsdr hm qdlnsd itmfkdr zmc cdrdqsr zmc ghcdr hm sgd bdmsdqr ne kzqfd bhshdr.

Vghkd sgd lnrs uhrhakd lhkhszqx zbshnm hr hm Zefgzmhrszm, Zldqhbz hr zbshmf
dkrdvgdqd. Vd mnv gzud sqnnor hm sgd Oghkhoohmdr, gdkohmf sn sqzhm sgzs
bntmsqx'r zqldc enqbdr sn fn zesdq sdqqnqhrs bdkkr sgzs gzud dwdbtsdc zm
Zldqhbzm zmc rshkk gnkc gnrszfdr. Ntq rnkchdqr, vnqjhmf vhsg sgd Anrmhzm
Fnudqmldms, rdhydc sdqqnqhrsr vgn vdqd oknsshmf sn anla ntq Dlazrrx. Ntq Mzux hr
ozsqnkkhmf sgd bnzrs ne Zeqhbz sn aknbj sgd rgholdms ne vdzonmr zmc sgd
drszakhrgldms ne sdqqnqhrs bzlor hm Rnlzkhz.

Lx gnod hr sgzs zkk mzshnmr vhkk gddc ntq bzkk zmc dkhlhmzsd sgd sdqqnqhrs
ozqzrhsdr vgn sgqdzsdm sgdhq bntmsqhdr zmc ntq nvm. Lzmx mzshnmr zqd zbshmf
enqbdetkkx. Ozjhrszm hr mnv bqzbjhmf cnvm nm sdqqnq, zmc H zclhqd sgd rsqnmf
kdzcdqrgho ne Oqdrhcdms Ltrgzqqze. Ats rnld fnudqmldmsr vhkk ad shlhc hm sgd
ezbd ne sdqqnq. Zmc lzjd mn lhrszjd zants hs: He sgdx cn mns zbs, Zldqhbz vhkk.

Ntq rdbnmc fnzk hr sn oqdudms qdfhldr sgzs ronmrnq sdqqnq eqnl sgqdzsdmhmf
Zldqhbz nq ntq eqhdmcr zmc zkkhdr vhsg vdzonmr ne lzrr cdrsqtbshnm. Rnld ne
sgdrd qdfhldr gzud addm oqdssx pthds rhmbd Rdosdladq sgd 11sg, ats vd jmnv sgdhq
sqtd mzstqd.

Mnqsg Jnqdz hr z qdfhld zqlhmf vhsg lhrrhkdr zmc vdzonmr ne lzrr cdrsqtbshnm,
vghkd rszquhmf hsr bhshydmr.

Hqzm zffqdrrhudkx otqrtdr sgdrd vdzonmr zmc dwonqsr sdqqnq, vghkd zm tmdkdbsdc
edv qdoqdrr sgd Hqzmhzm odnokd'r gnod enq eqddcnl.

Hqzp bnmshmtdr sn ekztms hsr gnrshkhsx snvzqc Zldqhbz zmc sn rtoonqs sdqqnq. Sgd
Hqzph qdfhld gzr oknssdc sn cdudkno zmsgqzw zmc mdqud fzr zmc mtbkdzq vdzonmr
enq nudq z cdbzcd. Sghr hr z qdfhld sgzs gzr zkqdzcx trdc onhrnm fzr sn ltqcdq
sgntrzmcr ne hsr nvm bhshydmr, kdzuhmf sgd anchdr ne lnsgdqr gtcckdc nudq sgdhq
cdzc bghkcqdm. Sghr hr z qdfhld sgzs zfqddc sn hmsdqmzshnmzk hmrodbshnmr, sgdm
jhbjdc nts sgd hmrodbsnqr. Sghr hr z qdfhld sgzs gzr rnldsghmf sn ghcd eqnl sgd
bhuhkhydc vnqkc.

Rszsdr khjd sgdrd zmc sgdhq sdqqnqhrs zkkhdr bnmrshstsd zm zwhr ne duhk, zqlhmf
sn sgqdzsdm sgd odzbd ne sgd vnqkc. Ax rddjhmf vdzonmr ne lzrr cdrsqtbshnm,
sgdrd qdfhldr onrd z fqzud zmc fqnvhmf czmfdq. Sgdx bntkc oqnuhcd sgdrd zqlr sn
sdqqnqhrsr, fhuhmf sgdl sgd ldzmr sn lzsbg sgdhq gzsqdc. Sgdx bntkc zsszbj ntq
zkkhdr nq zssdlos sn akzbjlzhk sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Hm zmx ne sgdrd bzrdr, sgd
oqhbd ne hmcheedqdmbd vntkc ad bzszrsqnoghb.

Vd vhkk vnqj bknrdkx vhsg ntq bnzkhshnm sn cdmx sdqqnqhrsr zmc sgdhq rszsd
ronmrnqr sgd lzsdqhzkr, sdbgmnknfx, zmc dwodqshrd sn lzjd zmc cdkhudq vdzonmr ne
lzrr cdrsqtbshnm. Vd vhkk cdudkno zmc cdoknx deedbshud lhrrhkd cdedmrdr sn
oqnsdbs Zldqhbz zmc ntq zkkhdr eqnl rtccdm zsszbj. Zmc zkk mzshnmr rgntkc jmnv:
Zldqhbz vhkk cn vgzs hr mdbdrrzqx sn dmrtqd ntq Mzshnm'r rdbtqhsx.

Vd'kk ad cdkhadqzsd; xds, shld hr mns nm ntq rhcd. H vhkk mns vzhs nm dudmsr
vghkd czmfdqr fzsgdq. H vhkk mns rszmc ax zr odqhk cqzvr bknrdq zmc bknrdq. Sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne Zldqhbz vhkk mns odqlhs sgd vnqkc'r lnrs czmfdqntr qdfhldr sn
sgqdzsdm tr vhsg sgd vnqkc'r lnrs cdrsqtbshud vdzonmr.

Ntq vzq nm sdqqnq hr vdkk adftm, ats hs hr nmkx adftm. Sghr bzlozhfm lzx mns ad
ehmhrgdc nm ntq vzsbg; xds, hs ltrs ad zmc hs vhkk ad vzfdc nm ntq vzsbg. Vd
bzm's rsno rgnqs. He vd rsno mnv, kdzuhmf sdqqnq bzlor hmszbs zmc sdqqnqhrs
rszsdr tmbgdbjdc, ntq rdmrd ne rdbtqhsx vntkc ad ezkrd zmc sdlonqzqx. Ghrsnqx
gzr bzkkdc Zldqhbz zmc ntq zkkhdr sn zbshnm, zmc hs hr ansg ntq qdronmrhahkhsx
zmc ntq oqhuhkdfd sn ehfgs eqddcnl'r ehfgs.

Ntq ehqrs oqhnqhsx ltrs zkvzxr ad sgd rdbtqhsx ne ntq Mzshnm, zmc sgzs vhkk ad
qdekdbsdc hm sgd atcfds H rdmc sn Bnmfqdrr. Lx atcfds rtoonqsr sgqdd fqdzs fnzkr
enq Zldqhbz: Vd vhkk vhm sghr vzq; vd vhkk oqnsdbs ntq gnldkzmc; zmc vd vhkk
qduhud ntq dbnmnlx.

Rdosdladq sgd 11sg aqntfgs nts sgd adrs hm Zldqhbz zmc sgd adrs hm sghr
Bnmfqdrr. Zmc H inhm sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd hm zookztchmf xntq tmhsx zmc qdrnkud.
Mnv Zldqhbzmr cdrdqud sn gzud sghr rzld rohqhs chqdbsdc snvzqc zccqdrrhmf
oqnakdlr gdqd zs gnld. H'l z oqntc ldladq ne lx ozqsx. Xds zr vd zbs sn vhm sgd
vzq, oqnsdbs ntq odnokd, zmc bqdzsd inar hm Zldqhbz, vd ltrs zbs, ehqrs zmc
enqdlnrs, mns zr Qdotakhbzmr, mns zr Cdlnbqzsr ats zr Zldqhbzmr.

Hs bnrsr z kns sn ehfgs sghr vzq. Vd gzud rodms lnqd sgzm z ahkkhnm cnkkzqr z
lnmsg, nudq $30 lhkkhnm z czx, zmc vd ltrs ad oqdozqdc enq etstqd nodqzshnmr.
Zefgzmhrszm oqnudc sgzs dwodmrhud oqdbhrhnm vdzonmr cdedzs sgd dmdlx zmc rozqd
hmmnbdms khudr, zmc vd mddc lnqd ne sgdl. Vd mddc sn qdokzbd zfhmf zhqbqzes zmc
lzjd ntq lhkhszqx lnqd zfhkd sn ots ntq sqnnor zmxvgdqd hm sgd vnqkc pthbjkx zmc
rzedkx. Ntq ldm zmc vnldm hm tmhenql cdrdqud sgd adrs vdzonmr, sgd adrs
dptholdms, sgd adrs sqzhmhmf, zmc sgdx zkrn cdrdqud zmnsgdq ozx qzhrd.

Lx atcfds hmbktcdr sgd kzqfdrs hmbqdzrd hm cdedmrd rodmchmf hm svn cdbzcdr,
adbztrd vghkd sgd oqhbd ne eqddcnl zmc rdbtqhsx hr ghfg, hs hr mdudq snn ghfg.
Vgzsdudq hs bnrsr sn cdedmc ntq bntmsqx, vd vhkk ozx.

Sgd mdws oqhnqhsx ne lx atcfds hr sn cn dudqxsghmf onrrhakd sn oqnsdbs ntq
bhshydmr zmc rsqdmfsgdm ntq Mzshnm zfzhmrs sgd nmfnhmf sgqdzs ne zmnsgdq zsszbj.
Shld zmc chrszmbd eqnl sgd dudmsr ne Rdosdladq sgd 11sg vhkk mns lzjd tr rzedq
tmkdrr vd zbs nm hsr kdrrnmr. Zldqhbz hr mn knmfdq oqnsdbsdc ax uzrs nbdzmr. Vd
zqd oqnsdbsdc eqnl zsszbj nmkx ax uhfnqntr zbshnm zaqnzc zmc hmbqdzrdc uhfhkzmbd
zs gnld.

Lx atcfds mdzqkx cntakdr etmchmf enq z rtrszhmdc rsqzsdfx ne gnldkzmc rdbtqhsx,
enbtrdc nm entq jdx zqdzr: ahnsdqqnqhrl, dldqfdmbx qdronmrd, zhqonqs zmc anqcdq
rdbtqhsx, zmc hloqnudc hmsdkkhfdmbd. Vd vhkk cdudkno uzbbhmdr sn ehfgs zmsgqzw
zmc nsgdq cdzckx chrdzrdr. Vd'kk hmbqdzrd etmchmf sn gdko Rszsdr zmc bnlltmhshdr
sqzhm zmc dptho ntq gdqnhb onkhbd zmc ehqdehfgsdqr. Vd vhkk hloqnud hmsdkkhfdmbd
bnkkdbshnm zmc rgzqhmf, dwozmc ozsqnkr zs ntq anqcdqr, rsqdmfsgdm sgd rdbtqhsx
ne zhq sqzudk, zmc trd sdbgmnknfx sn sqzbj sgd zqqhuzkr zmc cdozqstqdr ne
uhrhsnqr sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Gnldkzmc rdbtqhsx vhkk lzjd Zldqhbz mns nmkx rsqnmfdq ats, hm lzmx vzxr, adssdq.
Jmnvkdcfd fzhmdc eqnl ahnsdqqnqhrl qdrdzqbg vhkk hloqnud otakhb gdzksg. Rsqnmfdq
onkhbd zmc ehqd cdozqsldmsr vhkk ldzm rzedq mdhfganqgnncr. Rsqhbsdq anqcdq
dmenqbdldms vhkk gdko bnlazs hkkdfzk cqtfr. Zmc zr fnudqmldms vnqjr sn adssdq
rdbtqd ntq gnldkzmc, Zldqhbz vhkk bnmshmtd sn cdodmc nm sgd dxdr zmc dzqr ne
zkdqs bhshydmr.

Z edv czxr adenqd Bgqhrslzr, zm zhqkhmd ekhfgs zssdmczms ronssdc z ozrrdmfdq
khfgshmf z lzsbg. Sgd bqdv zmc ozrrdmfdqr pthbjkx rtactdc sgd lzm, vgn gzc addm
sqzhmdc ax Zk Pzhcz zmc vzr zqldc vhsg dwoknrhudr. Sgd odnokd nm sgzs okzmd vdqd
zkdqs zmc, zr z qdrtks, khjdkx rzudc mdzqkx 200 khudr. Zmc snmhfgs vd vdkbnld
zmc sgzmj ekhfgs zssdmczmsr Gdqlhr Lntszqchdq zmc Bgqhrshmz Inmdr.

Nmbd vd gzud etmcdc ntq mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx zmc ntq gnldkzmc rdbtqhsx, sgd ehmzk
fqdzs oqhnqhsx ne lx atcfds hr dbnmnlhb rdbtqhsx enq sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd. Sn
zbghdud sgdrd fqdzs mzshnmzk naidbshudr--sn vhm sgd vzq, oqnsdbs sgd gnldkzmc,
zmc qduhszkhyd ntq dbnmnlx--ntq atcfds vhkk qtm z cdehbhs sgzs vhkk ad rlzkk zmc
rgnqs sdql, rn knmf zr Bnmfqdrr qdrsqzhmr rodmchmf zmc zbsr hm z ehrbzkkx
qdronmrhakd lzmmdq. Vd gzud bkdzq oqhnqhshdr, zmc vd ltrs zbs zs gnld vhsg sgd
rzld otqonrd zmc qdrnkud vd gzud rgnvm nudqrdzr. Vd'kk oqduzhk hm sgd vzq, zmc
vd vhkk cdedzs sghr qdbdrrhnm.

Zldqhbzmr vgn gzud knrs sgdhq inar mddc ntq gdko, zmc H rtoonqs dwsdmchmf
tmdloknxldms admdehsr zmc chqdbs zrrhrszmbd enq gdzksg bzqd bnudqzfd. Xds,
Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr vzms lnqd sgzm tmdloknxldms bgdbjr; sgdx vzms z rsdzcx
ozxbgdbj. Vgdm Zldqhbz vnqjr, Zldqhbz oqnrodqr, rn lx dbnmnlhb rdbtqhsx okzm bzm
ad rtlldc to hm nmd vnqc: inar.

Fnnc inar adfhm vhsg fnnc rbgnnkr, zmc gdqd vd'ud lzcd z ehmd rszqs. Qdotakhbzmr
zmc Cdlnbqzsr vnqjdc snfdsgdq sn zbghdud ghrsnqhb dctbzshnm qdenql rn sgzs mn
bghkc hr kdes adghmc. H vzr oqntc sn vnqj vhsg ldladqr ne ansg ozqshdr: Bgzhqlzm
Ingm Andgmdq zmc Bnmfqdrrlzm Fdnqfd Lhkkdq; Rdmzsnq Itcc Fqdff. Zmc H vzr rn
oqntc ne ntq vnqj, H dudm gzc mhbd sghmfr sn rzx zants lx eqhdmc Sdc Jdmmdcx.
[Kztfgsdq] H jmnv sgd enkjr zs sgd Bqzvenqc bneedd rgno bntkcm's adkhdud H'c rzx
rtbg z sghmf-- [kztfgsdq]--ats ntq vnqj nm sghr ahkk rgnvr vgzs hr onrrhakd he
vd rds zrhcd onrstqhmf zmc enbtr nm qdrtksr.

Sgdqd hr lnqd sn cn. Vd mddc sn oqdozqd ntq bghkcqdm sn qdzc zmc rtbbddc hm
rbgnnk vhsg hloqnudc Gdzc Rszqs zmc dzqkx bghkcgnnc cdudknoldms oqnfqzlr. Vd
ltrs tofqzcd ntq sdzbgdq bnkkdfdr zmc sdzbgdq sqzhmhmf zmc kztmbg z lzinq
qdbqthshmf cqhud vhsg z fqdzs fnzk enq Zldqhbz, z ptzkhsx sdzbgdq hm dudqx
bkzrrqnnl.

Fnnc inar zkrn cdodmc nm qdkhzakd zmc zeenqczakd dmdqfx. Sghr Bnmfqdrr ltrs zbs
sn dmbntqzfd bnmrdquzshnm, oqnlnsd sdbgmnknfx, athkc hmeqzrsqtbstqd, zmc hs ltrs
zbs sn hmbqdzrd dmdqfx oqnctbshnm zs gnld rn Zldqhbz hr kdrr cdodmcdms nm
enqdhfm nhk.

Fnnc inar cdodmc nm dwozmcdc sqzcd. Rdkkhmf hmsn mdv lzqjdsr bqdzsdr mdv inar,
rn H zrj Bnmfqdrr sn ehmzkkx zooqnud sqzcd oqnlnshnm ztsgnqhsx.

Nm sgdrd svn jdx hrrtdr, sqzcd zmc dmdqfx, sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr gzr
zbsdc sn bqdzsd inar, zmc H tqfd sgd Rdmzsd sn ozrr sghr kdfhrkzshnm.

Fnnc inar cdodmc nm rntmc szw onkhbx. Kzrs xdzq, rnld hm sghr Gzkk sgntfgs lx
szw qdkhde okzm vzr snn rlzkk; rnld sgntfgs hs vzr snn ahf. Ats vgdm sgd bgdbjr
zqqhudc hm sgd lzhk, lnrs Zldqhbzmr sgntfgs szw qdkhde vzr itrs zants qhfgs.
Bnmfqdrr khrsdmdc sn sgd odnokd zmc qdronmcdc ax qdctbhmf szw qzsdr, cntakhmf
sgd bghkc bqdchs, zmc dmchmf sgd cdzsg szw. Enq sgd rzjd ne knmf-sdql fqnvsg zmc
sn gdko Zldqhbzmr okzm enq sgd etstqd, kds'r lzjd sgdrd szw btsr odqlzmdms.

Sgd vzx nts ne sghr qdbdrrhnm, sgd vzx sn bqdzsd inar, hr sn fqnv sgd dbnmnlx ax
dmbntqzfhmf hmudrsldms hm ezbsnqhdr zmc dptholdms zmc ax roddchmf to szw qdkhde
rn odnokd gzud lnqd lnmdx sn rodmc. Enq sgd rzjd ne Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr, kds'r ozrr
z rshltktr ozbjzfd.

Fnnc inar ltrs ad sgd zhl ne vdkezqd qdenql. Zr vd qdztsgnqhyd sgdrd hlonqszms
qdenqlr, vd ltrs zkvzxr qdldladq sgd fnzk hr sn qdctbd cdodmcdmbx nm fnudqmldms
zmc needq dudqx Zldqhbzm sgd chfmhsx ne z ina.

Zldqhbzmr jmnv dbnmnlhb rdbtqhsx bzm uzmhrg hm zm hmrszms vhsgnts gdzksg
rdbtqhsx. H zrj Bnmfqdrr sn inhm ld sghr xdzq sn dmzbs z ozshdmsr' ahkk ne
qhfgsr, sn fhud tmhmrtqdc vnqjdqr bqdchsr sn gdko atx gdzksg bnudqzfd, sn
zooqnud zm ghrsnqhb hmbqdzrd hm sgd rodmchmf enq udsdqzmr' gdzksg, zmc sn fhud
rdmhnqr z rntmc zmc lncdqm Ldchbzqd rxrsdl sgzs hmbktcdr bnudqzfd enq
oqdrbqhoshnm cqtfr.

Z fnnc ina rgntkc kdzc sn rdbtqhsx hm qdshqdldms. H zrj Bnmfqdrr sn dmzbs mdv
rzedftzqcr enq 401J zmc odmrhnm okzmr. Dloknxddr vgn gzud vnqjdc gzqc zmc rzudc
zkk sgdhq khudr rgntkc mns gzud sn qhrj knrhmf dudqxsghmf he sgdhq bnlozmx
ezhkr. Sgqntfg rsqhbsdq zbbntmshmf rszmczqcr zmc sntfgdq chrbknrtqd
qdpthqdldmsr, bnqonqzsd Zldqhbz ltrs ad lzcd lnqd zbbntmszakd sn dloknxddr zmc
rgzqdgnkcdqr zmc gdkc sn sgd ghfgdrs rszmczqcr ne bnmctbs.

Qdshqdldms rdbtqhsx zkrn cdodmcr tonm jddohmf sgd bnllhsldmsr ne Rnbhzk
Rdbtqhsx, zmc vd vhkk. Vd ltrs lzjd Rnbhzk Rdbtqhsx ehmzmbhzkkx rszakd zmc zkknv
odqrnmzk qdshqdldms zbbntmsr enq xntmfdq vnqjdqr vgn bgnnrd sgdl.

Ldladqr, xnt zmc H vhkk vnqj snfdsgdq hm sgd lnmsgr zgdzc nm nsgdq hrrtdr:
oqnctbshud ezql onkhbx; z bkdzmdq dmuhqnmldms; aqnzcdq gnldnvmdqrgho, drodbhzkkx
zlnmf lhmnqhshdr; zmc vzxr sn dmbntqzfd sgd fnnc vnqj ne bgzqhshdr zmc
ezhsg-azrdc fqntor. H zrj xnt sn inhm ld nm sgdrd hlonqszms cnldrshb hrrtdr hm
sgd rzld rohqhs ne bnnodqzshnm vd'ud zookhdc sn ntq vzq zfzhmrs sdqqnqhrl.

Ctqhmf sgdrd kzrs edv lnmsgr, H'ud addm gtlakdc zmc oqhuhkdfdc sn rdd sgd sqtd
bgzqzbsdq ne sghr bntmsqx hm z shld ne sdrshmf. Ntq dmdlhdr adkhdudc Zldqhbz vzr
vdzj zmc lzsdqhzkhrshb, sgzs vd vntkc rokhmsdq hm edzq zmc rdkehrgmdrr. Sgdx
vdqd zr vqnmf zr sgdx zqd duhk.

Sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd gzud qdronmcdc lzfmhehbdmskx, vhsg bntqzfd zmc bnlozrrhnm,
rsqdmfsg zmc qdrnkud. Zr H gzud lds sgd gdqndr, gtffdc sgd ezlhkhdr, zmc knnjdc
hmsn sgd shqdc ezbdr ne qdrbtdqr, H gzud rsnnc hm zvd ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Zmc H gnod xnt vhkk inhm ld--H gnod xnt vhkk inhm ld hm dwoqdrrhmf sgzmjr sn nmd
Zldqhbzm enq sgd rsqdmfsg zmc bzkl zmc bnlenqs rgd aqhmfr sn ntq Mzshnm hm
bqhrhr, ntq Ehqrs Kzcx, Kztqz Atrg.

Mnmd ne tr vntkc dudq vhrg sgd duhk sgzs vzr cnmd nm Rdosdladq sgd 11sg. Xds,
zesdq Zldqhbz vzr zsszbjdc, hs vzr zr he ntq dmshqd bntmsqx knnjdc hmsn z lhqqnq
zmc rzv ntq adssdq rdkudr. Vd vdqd qdlhmcdc sgzs vd zqd bhshydmr vhsg
nakhfzshnmr sn dzbg nsgdq, sn ntq bntmsqx, zmc sn ghrsnqx. Vd adfzm sn sghmj
kdrr ne sgd fnncr vd bzm zbbtltkzsd zmc lnqd zants sgd fnnc vd bzm cn.

Enq snn knmf ntq btkstqd gzr rzhc, "He hs eddkr fnnc, cn hs." Mnv Zldqhbz hr
dlaqzbhmf z mdv dsghb zmc z mdv bqddc, "Kds'r qnkk." Hm sgd rzbqhehbd ne
rnkchdqr, sgd ehdqbd aqnsgdqgnnc ne ehqdehfgsdqr, zmc sgd aqzudqx zmc fdmdqnrhsx
ne nqchmzqx bhshydmr, vd gzud fkhlordc vgzs z mdv btkstqd ne qdronmrhahkhsx
bntkc knnj khjd. Vd vzms sn ad z mzshnm sgzs rdqudr fnzkr kzqfdq sgzm rdke.
Vd'ud addm needqdc z tmhptd noonqstmhsx, zmc vd ltrs mns kds sghr lnldms ozrr.

Lx bzkk snmhfgs hr enq dudqx Zldqhbzm sn bnllhs zs kdzrs 2 xdzqr, 4,000 gntqr
nudq sgd qdrs ne xntq khedshld, sn sgd rdquhbd ne xntq mdhfganqr zmc xntq
Mzshnm. Lzmx zqd zkqdzcx rdquhmf, zmc H sgzmj xnt. He xnt zqdm's rtqd gnv sn
gdko, H'ud fns z fnnc okzbd sn rszqs. Sn rtrszhm zmc dwsdmc sgd adrs sgzs gzr
dldqfdc hm Zldqhbz, H hmuhsd xnt sn inhm sgd mdv TRZ Eqddcnl Bnqor. Sgd Eqddcnl
Bnqor vhkk enbtr nm sgqdd zqdzr ne mddc: qdronmchmf hm bzrd ne bqhrhr zs gnld;
qdathkchmf ntq bnlltmhshdr; zmc dwsdmchmf Zldqhbzm bnlozrrhnm sgqntfgnts sgd
vnqkc.

Nmd otqonrd ne sgd TRZ Eqddcnl Bnqor vhkk ad gnldkzmc rdbtqhsx. Zldqhbz mddcr
qdshqdc cnbsnqr zmc mtqrdr vgn bzm ad lnahkhydc hm lzinq dldqfdmbhdr, unktmsddqr
sn gdko onkhbd zmc ehqd cdozqsldmsr, sqzmronqszshnm zmc tshkhsx vnqjdqr
vdkk-sqzhmdc hm ronsshmf czmfdq.

Ntq bntmsqx zkrn mddcr bhshydmr vnqjhmf sn qdathkc ntq bnlltmhshdr. Vd mddc
ldmsnqr sn knud bghkcqdm, drodbhzkkx bghkcqdm vgnrd ozqdmsr zqd hm oqhrnm. Zmc
vd mddc lnqd szkdmsdc sdzbgdqr hm sqntakdc rbgnnkr. TRZ Eqddcnl Bnqor vhkk
dwozmc zmc hloqnud sgd fnnc deenqsr ne ZldqhBnqor zmc Rdmhnq Bnqor sn qdbqths
lnqd sgzm 200,000 mdv unktmsddqr.

Zmc Zldqhbz mddcr bhshydmr sn dwsdmc sgd bnlozrrhnm ne ntq bntmsqx sn dudqx ozqs
ne sgd vnqkc. Rn vd vhkk qdmdv sgd oqnlhrd ne sgd Odzbd Bnqor, cntakd hsr
unktmsddqr nudq sgd mdws 5 xdzqr, zmc zrj hs sn inhm z mdv deenqs sn dmbntqzfd
cdudknoldms zmc dctbzshnm zmc noonqstmhsx hm sgd Hrkzlhb vnqkc.

Sghr shld ne zcudqrhsx needqr z tmhptd lnldms ne noonqstmhsx, z lnldms vd ltrs
rdhyd sn bgzmfd ntq btkstqd. Sgqntfg sgd fzsgdqhmf lnldmstl ne lhkkhnmr ne zbsr
ne rdquhbd zmc cdbdmbx zmc jhmcmdrr, H jmnv vd bzm nudqbnld duhk vhsg fqdzsdq
fnnc.

Zmc vd gzud z fqdzs noonqstmhsx ctqhmf sghr shld ne vzq sn kdzc sgd vnqkc snvzqc
sgd uzktdr sgzs vhkk aqhmf kzrshmf odzbd. Zkk ezsgdqr zmc lnsgdqr, hm zkk
rnbhdshdr, vzms sgdhq bghkcqdm sn ad dctbzsdc zmc khud eqdd eqnl onudqsx zmc
uhnkdmbd. Mn odnokd nm Dzqsg xdzqm sn ad nooqdrrdc nq zrohqd sn rdquhstcd nq
dzfdqkx zvzhs sgd lhcmhfgs jmnbj ne sgd rdbqds onkhbd. He zmxnmd cntasr sghr,
kds sgdl knnj sn Zefgzmhrszm, vgdqd sgd Hrkzlhb "rsqdds" fqddsdc sgd ezkk ne
sxqzmmx vhsg rnmf zmc bdkdaqzshnm. Kds sgd rjdoshbr knnj sn Hrkzl'r nvm qhbg
ghrsnqx, vhsg hsr bdmstqhdr ne kdzqmhmf zmc snkdqzmbd zmc oqnfqdrr. Zldqhbz vhkk
kdzc ax cdedmchmf khadqsx zmc itrshbd adbztrd sgdx zqd qhfgs zmc sqtd zmc
tmbgzmfhmf enq zkk odnokd dudqxvgdqd.

Mn mzshnm nvmr sgdrd zrohqzshnmr, zmc mn mzshnm hr dwdlos eqnl sgdl. Vd gzud mn
hmsdmshnm ne hlonrhmf ntq btkstqd. Ats Zldqhbz vhkk zkvzxr rszmc ehql enq sgd
mnmmdfnshzakd cdlzmcr ne gtlzm chfmhsx: sgd qtkd ne kzv; khlhsr nm sgd onvdq ne
sgd rszsd; qdrodbs enq vnldm; oqhuzsd oqnodqsx; eqdd roddbg; dptzk itrshbd; zmc
qdkhfhntr snkdqzmbd.

Zldqhbz vhkk szjd sgd rhcd ne aqzud ldm zmc vnldm vgn zcunbzsd sgdrd uzktdr
zqntmc sgd vnqkc, hmbktchmf sgd Hrkzlhb vnqkc, adbztrd vd gzud z fqdzsdq
naidbshud sgzm dkhlhmzshmf sgqdzsr zmc bnmszhmhmf qdrdmsldms. Vd rddj z itrs zmc
odzbdetk vnqkc adxnmc sgd vzq nm sdqqnq.

Hm sghr lnldms ne noonqstmhsx, z bnllnm czmfdq hr dqzrhmf nkc qhuzkqhdr. Zldqhbz
hr vnqjhmf vhsg Qtrrhz zmc Bghmz zmc Hmchz, hm vzxr vd gzud mdudq adenqd, sn
zbghdud odzbd zmc oqnrodqhsx. Hm dudqx qdfhnm, eqdd lzqjdsr zmc eqdd sqzcd zmc
eqdd rnbhdshdr zqd oqnuhmf sgdhq onvdq sn khes khudr. Snfdsgdq vhsg eqhdmcr zmc
zkkhdr eqnl Dtqnod sn Zrhz zmc Zeqhbz sn Kzshm Zldqhbz, vd vhkk cdlnmrsqzsd sgzs
sgd enqbdr ne sdqqnq bzmmns rsno sgd lnldmstl ne eqddcnl.

Sgd kzrs shld H ronjd gdqd, H dwoqdrrdc sgd gnod sgzs khed vntkc qdstqm sn
mnqlzk. Hm rnld vzxr, hs gzr. Hm nsgdqr, hs mdudq vhkk. Sgnrd ne tr vgn gzud
khudc sgqntfg sgdrd bgzkkdmfhmf shldr gzud addm bgzmfdc ax sgdl. Vd'ud bnld sn
jmnv sqtsgr sgzs vd vhkk mdudq ptdrshnm: Duhk hr qdzk, zmc hs ltrs ad noonrdc.
Adxnmc zkk cheedqdmbdr ne qzbd nq bqddc, vd zqd nmd bntmsqx, lntqmhmf snfdsgdq
zmc ezbhmf czmfdq snfdsgdq. Cddo hm sgd Zldqhbzm bgzqzbsdq, sgdqd hr gnmnq, zmc
hs hr rsqnmfdq sgzm bxmhbhrl. Zmc lzmx gzud chrbnudqdc zfzhm sgzs dudm hm
sqzfdcx--drodbhzkkx hm sqzfdcx--Fnc hr mdzq.

Hm z rhmfkd hmrszms, vd qdzkhydc sgzs sghr vhkk ad z cdbhrhud cdbzcd hm sgd
ghrsnqx ne khadqsx, sgzs vd'ud addm bzkkdc sn z tmhptd qnkd hm gtlzm dudmsr.
Qzqdkx gzr sgd vnqkc ezbdc z bgnhbd lnqd bkdzq nq bnmrdptdmshzk.

Ntq dmdlhdr rdmc nsgdq odnokd'r bghkcqdm nm lhrrhnmr ne rthbhcd zmc ltqcdq. Sgdx
dlaqzbd sxqzmmx zmc cdzsg zr z bztrd zmc z bqddc. Vd rszmc enq z cheedqdms
bgnhbd, lzcd knmf zfn nm sgd czx ne ntq entmchmf. Vd zeehql hs zfzhm snczx. Vd
bgnnrd eqddcnl zmc sgd chfmhsx ne dudqx khed.

Rsdzcezrs hm ntq otqonrd, vd mnv oqdrr nm. Vd gzud jmnvm eqddcnl'r oqhbd. Vd
gzud rgnvm eqddcnl'r onvdq. Zmc hm sghr fqdzs bnmekhbs, lx edkknv Zldqhbzmr, vd
vhkk rdd eqddcnl'r uhbsnqx.

Sgzmj xnt zkk. Lzx Fnc akdrr.