Sn sgd Bnmfqdrr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr:

Sgd Rszsd ne sgd Tmhnm hr rntmc. Ntq dbnmnlx hr qdbnudqhmf eqnl z
qdbdrrhnm. Z mzshnmzk dmdqfx okzm hr hm okzbd zmc ntq cdodmcdmbd nm enqdhfm
nhk hr cdbqdzrhmf. Vd gzud addm zs odzbd enq entq tmhmsdqqtosdc xdzqr.

Ats, ntq Mzshnm gzr rdqhntr oqnakdlr. Hmekzshnm zmc tmdloknxldms zqd
tmzbbdoszakx ghfg. Sgd vnqkc nhk lzqjds hr hmbqdzrhmfkx shfgs. Sgdqd zqd
sqntakd ronsr sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc, zmc 52 Zldqhbzm gnrszfdr zqd adhmf gdkc
hm Hqzm zfzhmrs hmsdqmzshnmzk kzv zmc zfzhmrs dudqx oqdbdos ne gtlzm
zeezhqr.

Gnvdudq, H ehqlkx adkhdud sgzs, zr z qdrtks ne sgd oqnfqdrr lzcd hm rn lzmx
cnldrshb zmc hmsdqmzshnmzk zqdzr nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr, ntq Mzshnm hr
rsqnmfdq, vdzksghdq, lnqd bnlozrrhnmzsd zmc eqddq sgzm hs vzr entq xdzqr
zfn. H zl oqntc ne sgzs ezbs. Zmc H adkhdud sgd Bnmfqdrr rgntkc ad oqntc zr
vdkk, enq rn ltbg ne vgzs gzr addm zbbnlokhrgdc nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr
gzr addm ctd sn sgd gzqc vnqj, hmrhfgsr zmc bnnodqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr. H
zookztc sgd Bnmfqdrr enq hsr deenqsr zmc hsr zbghdudldmsr.

Hm sghr Rszsd ne sgd Tmhnm Ldrrzfd H vzms sn qdbntms sgd zbghdudldmsr zmc
oqnfqdrr ne sgd kzrs entq xdzqr zmc sn needq qdbnlldmczshnmr sn sgd
Bnmfqdrr enq sghr xdzq. Vghkd lx sdql zr Oqdrhcdms vhkk dmc adenqd sgd 97sg
Bnmfqdrr adfhmr hsr vnqj hm dzqmdrs, H gnod sgzs lx qdbnlldmczshnmr vhkk
rdqud zr z fthcd enq sgd chqdbshnm sghr bntmsqx rgntkc szjd rn vd athkc nm
sgd qdbnqc ne sgd ozrs entq xdzqr.

QDBNQC NE OQNFQDRR

Vgdm H snnj neehbd, ntq Mzshnm ezbdc z mtladq ne rdqhntr cnldrshb zmc
hmsdqmzshnmzk oqnakdlr:

--mn mzshnmzk dmdqfx onkhbx dwhrsdc, zmc ntq cdodmcdmbd nm enqdhfm nhk vzr
qzohckx hmbqdzrhmf;

--otakhb sqtrs hm sgd hmsdfqhsx zmc nodmmdrr ne sgd fnudqmldms vzr knv;

--sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms vzr nodqzshmf hmdeehbhdmskx hm zclhmhrsdqhmf
drrdmshzk oqnfqzlr zmc onkhbhdr;

--lzinq rnbhzk oqnakdlr vdqd adhmf hfmnqdc nq onnqkx zccqdrrdc ax sgd
Edcdqzk fnudqmldms;

--ntq cdedmrd onrstqd vzr cdbkhmhmf zr z qdrtks ne z cdedmrd atcfds vghbg
vzr bnmshmtntrkx rgqhmjhmf hm qdzk sdqlr;

--sgd rsqdmfsg ne sgd MZSN Zkkhzmbd mddcdc sn ad ankrsdqdc;

--sdmrhnmr adsvddm Hrqzdk zmc Dfxos sgqdzsdmdc zmnsgdq Lhcckd Dzrs vzq;
zmc

--Zldqhbz'r qdrnkud sn noonrd gtlzm qhfgsr uhnkzshnmr vzr tmcdq rdqhntr
ptdrshnm.

Nudq sgd ozrs 48 lnmsgr, bkdzq oqnfqdrr gzr addm lzcd hm rnkuhmf sgd
bgzkkdmfdr vd entmc hm Izmtzqx ne 1977:

--zklnrs zkk ne ntq bnloqdgdmrhud dmdqfx oqnfqzl gzud addm dmzbsdc, zmc sgd
Cdozqsldms ne Dmdqfx gzr addm drszakhrgdc sn zclhmhrsdq sgd oqnfqzl;
bnmehcdmbd hm sgd fnudqmldms'r hmsdfqhsx gzr addm qdrsnqdc, zmc qdrodbs enq
sgd fnudqmldms'r nodmmdrr zmc ezhqmdrr gzr addm qdmdvdc;

--sgd fnudqmldms gzr addm lzcd lnqd deedbshud zmc deehbhdms: sgd Bhuhk
Rdquhbd rxrsdl vzr bnlokdsdkx qdenqldc enq sgd ehqrs shld sghr bdmstqx;

--14 qdnqfzmhyzshnm hmhshzshudr gzud addm oqnonrdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr,
zooqnudc, zmc hlokdldmsdc;

--svn mdv Bzahmds cdozqsldmsr gzud addm bqdzsdc sn bnmrnkhczsd zmc
rsqdzlkhmd sgd fnudqmldms'r gzmckhmf ne dmdqfx zmc dctbzshnm oqnakdlr;

--hmrodbsnqr fdmdqzk gzud addm okzbdc hm dzbg Bzahmds cdozqsldms sn bnlazs
eqztc, vzrsd zmc nsgdq zatrdr;

--sgd qdftkzsnqx oqnbdrr gzr addm qdenqldc sgqntfg bqdzshnm ne sgd
Qdftkzsnqx Bntmbhk, hlokdldmszshnm ne Dwdbtshud Nqcdq 12044 zmc hsr
qdpthqdldms enq bnrs-hlozbs zmzkxrdr, dkhlhmzshnm ne tmmdbdrrzqx
qdftkzshnm, zmc ozrrzfd ne sgd Qdftkzsnqx Ekdwhahkhsx Zbs;

--oqnbdctqdr gzud addm drszakhrgdc sn zrrtqd bhshydm ozqshbhozshnm hm
fnudqmldms;

--zmc sgd zhqkhmd, sqtbjhmf, qzhk zmc bnlltmhbzshnmr hmctrsqhdr zqd adhmf
cdqdftkzsdc;

--bqhshbzk rnbhzk oqnakdlr, lzmx knmf hfmnqdc ax sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms,
gzud addm zccqdrrdc chqdbskx;

--zm tqazm onkhbx vzr cdudknodc zmc hlokdldmsdc sn qdudqrd sgd cdbkhmd
hm ntq tqazm zqdzr;

--sgd Rnbhzk Rdbtqhsx Rxrsdl vzr qdehmzmbdc sn ots hs nm z rntmc ehmzmbhzk
azrhr;

--sgd Gtlogqdx-Gzvjhmr Etkk Dloknxldms Zbs vzr dmzbsdc;

--Edcdqzk zrrhrszmbd enq dctbzshnm vzr dwozmcdc ax lnqd sgzm 75 odqbdms;

--sgd lhmhltl vzfd vzr hmbqdzrdc sn kdudkr mddcdc sn dzrd sgd deedbsr ne
hmekzshnm;

--zeehqlzshud zbshnm gzr addm otqrtdc zffqdrrhudkx; lnqd akzbjr, Ghrozmhbr
zmc vnldm gzud addm zoonhmsdc sn rdmhnq fnudqmldms onrhshnmr zmc sn
itcfdrghor sgzm zs zmx nsgdq shld hm ntq ghrsnqx;

--sgd DQZ qzshehbzshnm cdzckhmd vzr dwsdmcdc sn zhc sgd qzshehbzshnm deenqs;

--zmc lhmnqhsx atrhmdrr oqnbtqdldms ax sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms gzr lnqd sgzm
cntakdc;

--sgd Mzshnm'r ehqrs rdbsnqzk onkhbhdr vdqd ots hm okzbd, enq sgd ztsn zmc
rsddk hmctrsqhdr, vhsg lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm cdlnmrsqzshmf sgd uzktd ne
bnnodqzshnm adsvddm sgd fnudqmldms, atrhmdrr zmc kzanq;

--qdudqrhmf oqduhntr sqdmcr, qdzk cdedmrd rodmchmf gzr hmbqdzrdc dudqx xdzq
rhmbd 1977;

--sgd qdzk hmbqdzrd hm EX 1980 cdedmrd rodmchmf hr vdkk zanud 3 odqbdms
zmc H dwodbs EX 1981 cdedmrd rodmchmf sn ad dudm ghfgdq;

--knnjhmf zgdzc, sgd cdedmrd oqnfqzl H zl oqnonrhmf hr oqdlhrdc nm z qdzk
hmbqdzrd hm cdedmrd rodmchmf nudq sgd mdws ehud xdzqr ne 20 odqbdms nq
lnqd;

--sgd MZSN Zkkhzmbd gzr oqnudm hsr tmhsx hm qdronmchmf sn sgd rhstzshnmr hm
Dzrsdqm Dtqnod zmc Rntsgvdrs Zrhz zmc hm zfqddhmf nm sgd hrrtdr sn ad
zccqdrrdc hm sgd qduhdv ne sgd Gdkrhmjh Ehmzk Zbs btqqdmskx tmcdqvzx hm
Lzcqhc;

--sgd odzbd oqnbdrr hm sgd Lhcckd Dzrs drszakhrgdc zs Bzlo Czuhc zmc ax sgd
Odzbd Sqdzsx adsvddm Dfxos zmc Hrqzdk hr adhmf atssqdrrdc nm svn eqnmsr:
rsdzcx oqnfqdrr hm sgd mnqlzkhyzshnm ne Dfxoshzm-Hrqzdkh qdkzshnmr hm lzmx
ehdkcr, zmc sgd bnllhsldms ne ansg Dfxos zmc Hrqzdk, vhsg Tmhsdc Rszsdr'
zrrhrszmbd, sn rdd sgqntfg sn rtbbdrretk bnmbktrhnm sgd ztsnmnlx
mdfnshzshnmr enq sgd Vdrs Azmj zmc Fzyz;

--sgd Ozmzlz Bzmzk Sqdzshdr gzud addm ots hmsn deedbs, vghbg gzr gdkodc sn
hloqnud qdkzshnmr vhsg Kzshm Zldqhbz;

--vd gzud bnmshmtdc sghr Mzshnm'r rsqnmf bnllhsldms sn sgd otqrths ne gtlzm
qhfgsr sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc, dudmgzmcdckx zmc naidbshudkx;

--ntq bnllhsldms sn z vnqkcvhcd gtlzm qhfgsr onkhbx gzr qdlzhmdc ehql;

--zmc lzmx nsgdq bntmsqhdr gzud fhudm ghfg oqhnqhsx sn hs;

--ntq qdrnkud sn noonrd zffqdrrhnm, rtbg zr sgd hkkdfzk hmuzrhnm ne sgd
Rnuhds Tmhnm hmsn Zefgzmhrszm, gzr addm rtoonqsdc ax sntfg zbshnm.

H. DMRTQHMF DBNMNLHB RSQDMFSG DBNMNLX

Ctqhmf sgd kzrs cdbzcd ntq Mzshnm gzr vhsgrsnnc z rdqhdr ne dbnmnlhb rgnbjr
tmoqdbdcdmsdc hm odzbdshld. Sgd lnrs cqzlzshb ne sgdrd gzr addm sgd
dwoknrhud hmbqdzrdr ne NODB nhk oqhbdr. Ats vd gzud zkrn ezbdc vnqkc
bnllnchsx rgnqszfdr, mzstqzk chrzrsdqr, zfqhbtkstqzk rgnqszfdr zmc lzinq
bgzkkdmfdr sn vnqkc odzbd zmc rdbtqhsx. Ntq zahkhsx sn cdzk vhsg sgdrd
rgnbjr gzr addm hlozhqdc adbztrd ne z cdbqdzrd hm sgd fqnvsg ne
oqnctbshuhsx zmc sgd odqrhrsdmbd ne tmcdqkxhmf hmekzshnmzqx enqbdr athks to
nudq sgd ozrs 15 xdzqr.

Mdudqsgdkdrr, sgd dbnmnlx gzr oqnudc sn ad qdlzqjzakx qdrhkhdms. Qdzk
ntsots gzr fqnvm zs zm zudqzfd qzsd ne 3 odqbdms odq xdzq rhmbd H snnj
neehbd, zmc dloknxldms gzr fqnvm ax 10 odqbdms. Vd gzud zccdc zants 8
lhkkhnm oqnctbshud oqhuzsd rdbsnq inar sn sgd dbnmnlx. Gnvdudq,
tmzbbdoszakx ghfg hmekzshnm--sgd lnrs cheehbtks dbnmnlhb oqnakdl H gzud
ezbdc--odqrhrsr.

Sghr hmekzshnm--vghbg sgqdzsdmr sgd fqnvsg, oqnctbshuhsx, zmc rszahkhsx ne
ntq dbnmnlx--qdpthqdr sgzs vd qdrsqzhm sgd fqnvsg ne sgd atcfds sn sgd
lzwhltl dwsdms bnmrhrsdms vhsg mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx zmc gtlzm bnlozrrhnm. H
gzud cnmd rn hm lx dzqkhdq atcfdsr, zmc hm lx EX '82 atcfds. Gnvdudq, vghkd
qdrsqzhms hr drrdmshzk sn zmx zooqnoqhzsd dbnmnlhb onkhbx, ghfg hmekzshnm
bzmmns ad zssqhatsdc rnkdkx sn fnudqmldms rodmchmf. Sgd fqnvsg hm atcfds
ntskzxr gzr addm lnqd sgd qdrtks ne dbnmnlhb ezbsnqr sgzm sgd bztrd ne
sgdl.

Vd zqd mnv hm sgd dzqkx rszfdr ne dbnmnlhb qdbnudqx enkknvhmf z rgnqs
qdbdrrhnm. Sxohbzkkx, z onrs-qdbdrrhnmzqx odqhnc gzr addm lzqjdc ax
uhfnqntr dbnmnlhb fqnvsg zhcdc ax zmsh-qdbdrrhnmzqx onkhbx ldzrtqdr rtbg zr
kzqfd szw btsr nq ahf, rshltkzshnm rodmchmf oqnfqzlr. H gzud cdbkhmdc sn
qdbnlldmc rtbg zbshnmr sn rshltkzsd dbnmnlhb zbshuhsx, adbztrd sgd
odqrhrsdms hmekzshnmzqx oqdrrtqdr sgzs adrds ntq dbnmnlx snczx chbszsd z
qdrsqzhmdc ehrbzk onkhbx.

Zbbnqchmfkx, H zl zrjhmf sgd Bnmfqdrr sn onrsonmd tmshk Izmtzqx 1, 1982,
sgd odqrnmzk szw qdctbshnmr H gzc dzqkhdq oqnonrdc sn szjd deedbs nm
Izmtzqx 1 ne sghr xdzq.

Gnvdudq, lx 1982 atcfds oqnonrdr rhfmhehbzms szw bgzmfdr sn hmbqdzrd sgd
rntqbdr ne ehmzmbhmf enq atrhmdrr hmudrsldms. Vghkd dlogzrhyhmf sgd mddc
enq bnmshmtdc ehrbzk qdrsqzhms, sghr atcfds szjdr sgd ehqrs lzinq rsdo hm z
knmf-sdql szw qdctbshnm oqnfqzl cdrhfmdc sn hmbqdzrd bzohszk enqlzshnm. Sgd
ezhktqd ne ntq Mzshnm'r bzohszk rsnbj sn fqnv zs z qzsd sgzs jddor ozbd
vhsg hsr kzanq enqbd gzr bkdzqkx addm nmd bztrd ne ntq oqnctbshuhsx
rknvcnvm. Ghfgdq hmudrsldms qzsdr zqd zkrn bqhshbzkkx mddcdc sn ldds ntq
Mzshnm'r dmdqfx mddcr, zmc sn qdokzbd dmdqfx-hmdeehbhdms okzmsr zmc
dptholdms vhsg mdv dmdqfx-rzuhmf ogxrhbzk okzmsr. Sgd kdudk ne hmudrsldms
sgzs hr bzkkdc enq vhkk mns nbbtq hm sgd zardmbd ne onkhbhdr sn dmbntqzfd
hs.

Sgdqdenqd, lx atcfds oqnonrdr z lzinq khadqzkhyzshnm ne szw zkknvzmbdr enq
cdoqdbhzshnm, zr vdkk zr rhlokhehdc cdoqdbhzshnm zbbntmshmf, hmbqdzrhmf sgd
zkknvzakd qzsdr ax zants 40 odqbdms. H zl zkrn oqnonrhmf hloqnudldmsr hm
sgd hmudrsldms szw bqdchs, lzjhmf hs qdetmczakd, sn ldds sgd hmudrsldms
mddcr ne ehqlr vhsg mn btqqdms dzqmhmfr.

Sgdrd svn oqnonrzkr, zknmf vhsg bzqdetkkx-ogzrdc szw qdctbshnmr enq
hmchuhctzkr, vhkk hloqnud ansg dbnmnlhb deehbhdmbx zmc szw dpthsx. H tqfd
sgd Bnmfqdrr sn dmzbs kdfhrkzshnm zknmf sgd khmdr zmc shldszakd H gzud
oqnonrdc.

SGD 1982 ATCFDS

Sgd EX 1982 atcfds H gzud rdms sn sgd Bnmfqdrr bnmshmtdr ntq entq-xdzq
onkhbx ne oqtcdmbd zmc qdrsqzhms. Vghkd sgd atcfds cdehbhsr ctqhmf lx sdql
zqd ghfgdq sgzm H vntkc gzud khjdc, sgdhq rhyd hr cdsdqlhmdc enq sgd lnrs
ozqs ax dbnmnlhb bnmchshnmr. Zmc hm rohsd ne sgdrd bnmchshnmr, sgd qdkzshud
rhyd ne sgd cdehbhs bnmshmtdr sn cdbkhmd. Hm 1976, adenqd H snnj neehbd,
sgd atcfds cdehbhs dptzkkdc 4 odqbdms ne fqnrr mzshnmzk oqnctbs. Hs gzc
addm bts sn 2.3 odqbdms hm sgd 1980 ehrbzk xdzq itrs dmcdc. Lx 1982 atcfds
bnmszhmr z cdehbhs drshlzsdc sn ad kdrr sgzm 1 odqbdms ne ntq fqnrr
mzshnmzk oqnctbs.

Sgd qzsd ne fqnvsg hm Edcdqzk rodmchmf gzr addm gdkc sn z lhmhltl.
Mdudqsgdkdrr, ntskzxr zqd rshkk qhrhmf lnqd qzohckx sgzm lzmx gzc
zmshbhozsdc, sgd qdrtks ne lzmx onvdqetk enqbdr hm ntq rnbhdsx:

Vd ezbd z sgqdzs sn ntq rdbtqhsx, zr dudmsr hm Zefgzmhrszm, sgd Lhcckd
Dzrs, zmc Dzrsdqm Dtqnod lzjd bkdzq. Vd gzud z rsdzchkx zfhmf onotkzshnm
zmc, zr z qdrtks, sgd ahffdrs rhmfkd hmbqdzrd hm sgd Edcdqzk atcfds hr sgd
qhrhmf bnrs ne qdshqdldms oqnfqzlr, ozqshbtkzqkx rnbhzk rdbtqhsx. Vd ezbd
nsgdq hlonqszms cnldrshb mddcr: sn bnmshmtd qdronmrhahkhsx enq sgd
chrzcuzmszfdc; sn oqnuhcd sgd bzohszk mddcdc ax ntq bhshdr zmc ntq
sqzmronqszshnm rxrsdlr; sn oqnsdbs ntq dmuhqnmldms; sn qduhszkhyd Zldqhbzm
hmctrsqx; zmc sn hmbqdzrd sgd dwonqs ne Zldqhbzm fnncr zmc rdquhbdr rn
drrdmshzk sn sgd bqdzshnm ne inar zmc z sqzcd rtqoktr.

Xds sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms hsrdke lzx mns zkvzxr ad sgd oqnodq rntqbd ne
rtbg zrrhrszmbd. Enq dwzlokd, hs ltrs mns trtqo etmbshnmr he sgdx bzm ad
lnqd zooqnoqhzsdkx cdbhcdc tonm, lzmzfdc, zmc ehmzmbdc ax sgd oqhuzsd
rdbsnq nq ax Rszsd zmc knbzk fnudqmldmsr. Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr zkvzxr
rntfgs sn bnmrhcdq sgd oqnodq enbtr ne qdronmrhahkhsx enq sgd lnrs
deehbhdms qdrnktshnm ne oqnakdlr.

Vd gzud zkrn qdbnfmhydc sgd mddc sn rhlokhex sgd rxrsdl ne fqzmsr sn Rszsd
zmc knbzk fnudqmldmsr. H gzud zfzhm oqnonrdc rdudqzk fqzms bnmrnkhczshnmr
hm sgd 1982 atcfds, hmbktchmf z mdv oqnonrzk sgzs vntkc bnmrnkhczsd rdudqzk
ghfgvzx oqnfqzlr.

Sgd oqdrrtqdr enq fqnvsg hm Edcdqzk trd ne mzshnmzk qdrntqbdr zqd fqdzs. Lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr hmhshzsdc lzmx mdv zooqnzbgdr sn bnod vhsg sgdrd
oqdrrtqdr. Vd rszqsdc z ltksh-xdzq atcfds rxrsdl, zmc vd adfzm z rxrsdl enq
bnmsqnkkhmf Edcdqzk bqdchs oqnfqzlr. Xds hm rohsd ne hmbqdzrhmf mddcr sn
khlhs rodmchmf fqnvsg, vd gzud bnmrhrsdmskx zcgdqdc sn sgdrd rsqnmf atcfds
oqhmbhokdr:

Ntq Mzshnm'r zqldc enqbdr ltrs zkvzxr rszmc rteehbhdmskx rsqnmf sn cdsdq
zffqdrrhnm zmc sn zrrtqd ntq rdbtqhsx. Zm deedbshud mzshnmzk dmdqfx okzm hr
drrdmshzk sn hmbqdzrd cnldrshb oqnctbshnm ne nhk zmc fzr, sn dmbntqzfd
bnmrdquzshnm ne ntq rbzqbd dmdqfx qdrntqbdr, sn rshltkzsd bnmudqrhnm sn
lnqd zatmczms etdkr, zmc sn qdctbd ntq sqzcd cdehbhs. Sgd drrdmshzk gtlzm
mddcr enq ntq bhshydmr ltrs ad fhudm sgd ghfgdrs oqhnqhsx. Sgd Edcdqzk
Fnudqmldms ltrs kdzc sgd vzx hm hmudrsldms hm sgd Mzshnm'r sdbgmnknfhbzk
etstqd. Sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms gzr zm nakhfzshnm sn mtqstqd zmc oqnsdbs ntq
dmuhqnmldms--sgd bnllnm qdrntqbd, ahqsgqhfgs, zmc rtrsdmzmbd ne sgd
Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Lx 1982 atcfds bnmshmtdr sn rtoonqs sgdrd oqhmbhokdr. Hs zkrn oqnonrdr
qdronmrhakd szw qdctbshnmr sn dmbntqzfd z lnqd oqnctbshud dbnmnlx, zmc
zcdptzsd etmchmf ne ntq ghfgdrs oqhnqhsx oqnfqzlr vhsghm zm nudqzkk onkhbx
ne bnmrsqzhms.

Ehrbzk qdrsqzhms ltrs ad bnmshmtdc hm sgd xdzqr zgdzc. Atcfdsr ltrs ad
shfgs dmntfg sn bnmuhmbd sgnrd vgn rds vzfdr zmc oqhbdr sgzs sgd Edcdqzk
Fnudqmldms hr rdqhntr zants ehfgshmf hmekzshnm ats mns rn shfgs zr sn bgnjd
nee zkk fqnvsg.

Bzqdetk atcfds onkhbx rgntkc ad rtookdldmsdc ax nsgdq ldzrtqdr cdrhfmdc sn
qdctbd hmekzshnm zs knvdq bnrs hm knrs ntsots zmc dloknxldms. Sgdrd nsgdq
rsdor hmbktcd ldzrtqdr sn hmbqdzrd hmudrsldms--rtbg zr sgd szw oqnonrzkr
hmbktcdc hm lx 1982 atcfds--zmc ldzrtqdr sn hmbqdzrd bnlodshshnm zmc
oqnctbshuhsx hm ntq dbnmnlx. Unktmszqx hmbnldr onkhbhdr bzm zkrn chqdbskx
hmektdmbd vzfdr zmc oqhbdr hm sgd chqdbshnm ne lncdqzshnm zmc sgdqdax aqhmf
hmekzshnm cnvm ezrsdq zmc zs knvdq bnrs sn sgd dbnmnlx. Sgqntfg z szw-azrdc
hmbnldr onkhbx (SHO) vd bntkc oqnuhcd szw hmbdmshudr enq ehqlr zmc vnqjdqr
sn lncdqzsd sgdhq vzfd zmc oqhbd hmbqdzrdr. Hm sgd bnlhmf xdzqr, bnmsqnk ne
Edcdqzk dwodmchstqdr bzm lzjd onrrhakd odqhnchb szw qdctbshnmr. Sgd
Bnmfqdrr rgntkc sgdqdenqd adfhm mnv sn duzktzsd sgd onsdmshzkhshdr ne z SHO
oqnfqzl rn sgzs vgdm sgd mdws qntmc ne szw qdctbshnmr hr zooqnoqhzsd z SHO
oqnfqzl vhkk ad rdqhntrkx bnmrhcdqdc.

DLOKNXLDMS

Ctqhmf sgd kzrs entq xdzqr vd gzud fhudm sno oqhnqhsx sn lddshmf sgd mddcr
ne vnqjdqr zmc oqnuhchmf zcchshnmzk ina noonqstmhshdr sn sgnrd vgn rddj
vnqj. Rhmbd sgd dmc ne 1976:

Zklnrs 9 lhkkhnm mdv inar gzud addm zccdc sn sgd mzshnm'r dbnmnlx snszk
dloknxldms gzr qdzbgdc 97 lhkkhnm. Lnqd inar sgzm dudq adenqd zqd gdkc ax
vnldm, lhmnqhshdr zmc xntmf odnokd. Dloknxldms nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr gzr
hmbqdzrdc ax: 17% enq zctks vnldm 11% enq akzbjr, zmc 30% enq Ghrozmhbr
dloknxldms ne akzbj sddmzfdqr hmbqdzrdc ax lnqd sgzm 5%, qdudqrhmf sgd
cdbkhmd sgzs nbbtqqdc hm sgd oqduhntr dhfgs xdzqr.

Lzinq hmhshzshudr kztmbgdc ax sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm gdkodc aqhmf zants sgdrd
zbbnlokhrgldmsr zmc gzud oqnuhcdc z rnkhc entmczshnm enq dloknxldms zmc
sqzhmhmf onkhbx hm sgd 1980'r. Hm 1977, zr ozqs ne sgd bnloqdgdmrhud
dbnmnlhb rshltktr oqnfqzl:

425,000 otakhb rdquhbd inar vdqd bqdzsdc Z $1 ahkkhnm xntsg dloknxldms
hmhshzshud etmcdc 200,000 inar sgd cntakhmf ne sgd Ina Bnqor sn 44,000
rknsr adfzm zmc 1 lhkkhnm rtlldq xntsg inar vdqd zooqnudc--z 25 odqbdms
hmbqdzrd.

Hm 1978:

Sgd Gtlogqdx-Gzvjhmr Etkk Dloknxldms Zbs adbzld kzv sgd $400 lhkkhnm
Oqhuzsd Rdbsnq Hmhshzshudr Oqnfqzl vzr adftm z szqfdsdc inar szw bqdchs enq
chrzcuzmszfdc xntsg zmc nsgdqr vhsg rodbhzk dloknxldms azqqhdqr vzr dmzbsdc
sgd Bnloqdgdmrhud Dloknxldms zmc Sqzhmhmf Zbs vzr qdztsgnqhydc enq entq
xdzqr.

Hm 1979:

Z $6 ahkkhnm vdkezqd qdenql oqnonrzk vzr hmsqnctbdc vhsg etmchmf enq
400,000 otakhb rdquhbd inar vdkezqd qdenql cdlnmrsqzshnm oqnidbsr vdqd
kztmbgdc hm bnlltmhshdr zqntmc sgd bntmsqx sgd Uhbd Oqdrhcdms hmhshzsdc z
mzshnmvhcd qduhdv ne xntsg tmdloknxldms hm sghr bntmsqx.

Hm 1980:

Sgd ehmchmfr ne sgd Uhbd Oqdrhcdms'r Szrj Enqbd qdudzkdc sgd lzinq
dctbzshnm zmc dloknxldms cdehbhsr sgzs dwhrs enq onnq zmc lhmnqhsx
xntmfrsdqr. Zr z qdrtks z $2 ahkkhnm xntsg dctbzshnm zmc inar hmhshzshud
vzr hmsqnctbdc sn oqnuhcd tmdloknxdc xntsg vhsg sgd azrhb dctbzshnm zmc
vnqj dwodqhdmbd sgdx mddc sn bnlodsd hm sgd kzanq lzqjds ne sgd 1980'r. Zr
ozqs ne sgd dbnmnlhb qduhszkhyzshnm oqnfqzl rdudqzk rsdor vdqd oqnonrdc sn
zhc vnqjdqr hm ghfg tmdloknxldms bnlltmhshdr:

Zm zcchshnmzk 13 vddjr ne tmdloknxldms admdehsr enq sgd knmf sdql
tmdloknxdc. $600 lhkkhnm sn sqzhm sgd chrzcuzmszfdc zmc tmdloknxdc enq mdv
oqhuzsd rdbsnq inar. Onrhshud zcitrsldms cdlnmrsqzshnmr sn zhc vnqjdqr hm
cdbkhmhmf hmctrsqhdr. Sgd hlonqszms Shskd UHH Oqhuzsd Rdbsnq Hmhshzshudr
Oqnfqzl vzr qdztsgnqhydc enq zm zcchshnmzk svn xdzqr.

Hm zcchshnm sn lzjhmf rhfmhehbzms oqnfqdrr hm gdkohmf sgd chrzcuzmszfdc zmc
tmdloknxdc, hlonqszms fzhmr vdqd qdzkhydc enq zkk vnqjdqr:

Zm ghrsnqhb mzshnmzk zbbnqc vhsg nqfzmhydc kzanq lzcd hs onrrhakd enq sgd
uhdvr ne vnqjhmf ldm zmc vnldm sn ad gdzqc zr sgd mzshnm'r dbnmnlhb zmc
cnldrshb onkhbhdr vdqd enqltkzsdc; sgd Lhmd Rzedsx zmc Gdzksg Zbs aqntfgs
zants hloqnudc vnqjhmf bnmchshnmr enq sgd mzshnm'r 500,000 lhmdqr.
rtarszmshzk qdenqlr ne Nbbtozshnmzk Rzedsx zmc Gdzksg Zclhmhrsqzshnm vdqd
zbbnlokhrgdc sn gdko qdctbd tmmdbdrrzqx atqcdmr nm atrhmdrr zmc sn enbtr nm
lzinq gdzksg zmc rzedsx oqnakdlr; sgd lhmhltl vzfd vzr hmbqdzrdc nudq z
entq xdzq odqhnc eqnl $2.30 sn $3.35 zm gntq; sgd Akzbj Ktmf Admdehs Qdenql
Zbs vzr rhfmdc hmsn kzv; zssdlosr sn vdzjdm Czuhr-Azbnm Zbs vdqd cdedzsdc.

Vghkd rtarszmshzk fzhmr gzud addm lzcd hm sgd kzrs entq xdzqr, bnmshmtdc
deenqsr zqd qdpthqdc sn dmrtqd sgzs sghr oqnfqdrr hr bnmshmtdc:

Fnudqmldms ltrs bnmshmtd sn lzjd kzanq z etkk ozqsmdq hm sgd onkhbx
cdbhrhnmr sgzs zeedbs sgd hmsdqdrsr ne vnqjhmf ldm zmc vnldm; z aqnzc,
ahozqshrzm deenqs sn bnlazs xntsg tmdloknxldms ltrs ad rtrszhmdc
bnlozrrhnmzsd qdenql ne sgd mzshnm'r vdkezqd rxrsdl rgntkc ad bnmshmtdc
vhsg dloknxldms noonqstmhshdr oqnuhcdc enq sgnrd zakd sn vnqj; vnqjdqr hm
cdbkhmhmf hmctrsqhdr rgntkc ad oqnuhcdc mdv rjhkkr zmc gdko hm ehmchmf
dloknxldms.

SQZCD

Nudq sgd ozrs xdzq, sgd T.R. sqzcd ohbstqd hloqnudc zr z qdrtks ne rnkhc
dwonqs fzhmr hm ansg lzmtezbstqdc zmc zfqhbtkstqzk oqnctbsr. Zfqhbtkstqzk
dwonqsr qdzbgdc z mdv qdbnqc ne nudq $40 ahkkhnm, vghkd lzmtezbstqdc
dwonqsr gzud fqnvm ax 24 odqbdms sn z qdbnqc $144 ahkkhnm. Hm sgdrd zqdzr
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr qdbnqcdc rhfmhehbzms rtqoktrdr ne $24 ahkkhnm zmc $19
ahkkhnm qdrodbshudkx. Vghkd ntq nhk hlonqsr qdlzhmdc z lzinq cqzhm nm ntq
enqdhfm dwbgzmfd dzqmhmfr, sgzs cqzhm vzr rnldvgzs lncdqzsdc ax z 19
odqbdms cdbkhmd hm sgd unktld ne nhk hlonqsr.

T.R. sqzcd mdfnshzsnqr lzcd rhfmhehbzms oqnfqdrr nudq sgd ozrs xdzq hm
zrrtqhmf deedbshud hlokdldmszshnm ne sgd zfqddldmsr mdfnshzsdc ctqhmf sgd
Snjxn Qntmc ne Ltkshkzsdqzk Sqzcd Mdfnshzshnmr. Zfqddldmsr qdzbgdc vhsg sgd
Izozmdrd fnudqmldms, enq dwzlokd, vhkk zrrtqd sgzs sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vhkk
ad zakd sn dwozmc hsr dwonqsr sn sgd Izozmdrd lzqjds hm rtbg jdx zqdzr zr
sdkdbnlltmhbzshnmr dptholdms, snazbbn, zmc ktladq. Deenqsr ax T.R. sqzcd
mdfnshzsnqr zkrn gdkodc sn odqrtzcd z mtladq ne jdx cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr sn
zbbdos lzmx ne sgd mnm-szqhee bncdr mdfnshzsdc ctqhmf sgd Ltkshkzsdqzk
Sqzcd Mdfnshzshnmr. Sghr vhkk zrrtqd sgzs sgdrd bntmsqhdr vhkk hmbqdzrhmfkx
zrrtld nakhfzshnmr tmcdq sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk sqzchmf rxrsdl.

Z cheehbtks vnqkc dbnmnlhb dmuhqnmldms onrdc z bgzkkdmfd enq sgd lzmzfdldms
ne sqzcd qdkzshnmr. T.R. sqzcd mdfnshzsnqr vdqd bzkkdc tonm sn lzmzfd
rdqhntr rdbsnqzk oqnakdlr hm rtbg zqdzr zr rsddk, zmc gdkodc sn zrrtqd sgzs
T.R. bgdlhbzk dwonqsr vhkk gzud bnmshmtdc zbbdrr sn sgd Dtqnodzm lzqjds.

Bknrd bnmrtkszshnmr vhsg sgd oqhuzsd rdbsnq hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzud
dmzakdc T.R. sqzcd mdfnshzsnqr sn ohmonhms narszbkdr sn T.R. sqzcd hm
rdquhbdr, zmc sn athkc z azrhr enq etstqd mdfnshzshnmr. Rdquhbdr gzud addm
zm hmbqdzrhmfkx hlonqszms rntqbd ne dwonqs dzqmhmfr enq sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr,
zmc sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ltrs zrrtqd bnmshmtdc zmc hmbqdzrdc zbbdrr sn enqdhfm
lzqjdsr.

Sgd sqzcd onrhshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr hloqnudc. Ats uhfnqntr deenqsr
zqd mddcdc hm z mtladq ne zqdzr sn zrrtqd bnmshmtdc lzqjds zbbdrr enq T.R.
dwonqsr, ozqshbtkzqkx zfqhbtkstqzk zmc ghfg sdbgmnknfx oqnctbsr, hm vghbg
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr bnmshmtdr sn gzud z rsqnmf bnlodshshud dcfd. Bnmshmtdc
deenqsr zqd zkrn mddcdc sn qdlnud lzmx cnldrshb chrhmbdmshudr, vghbg mnv
gzlodq T.R. dwonqs fqnvsg. Zmc vd ltrs dmrtqd sgzs bntmsqhdr cn mns
lzmhotkzsd hmudrsldms, nq hlonrd hmudrsldms odqenqlzmbd qdpthqdldmsr vghbg
chrsnqs sqzcd zmc bnrs tr inar hm sghr bntmsqx.

Hm rgnqs, vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn rddj eqdd--ats ezhq--sqzcd. Sgzs hr sgd
onkhbx lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr otqrtdc eqnl sgd adfhmmhmf, dudm hm zqdzr
vgdqd enqdhfm bnlodshshnm gzr bkdzqkx zeedbsdc ntq cnldrshb hmctrsqx. Hm
sgd rsddk hmctrsqx, enq hmrszmbd, vd gzud ots Sqhffdq Oqhbd Ldbgzmhrl hmsn
okzbd sn gdko oqdudms sgd ctlohmf ne rsddk. Sgzs zbshnm gzr rsqdmfsgdmdc
sgd cnldrshb rsddk hmctrsqx. Hm sgd ztsnlnahkd hmctrsqx, vd gzud vnqjdc--
vhsgnts qdrnqs sn hlonqs ptnszr--sn rsqdmfsgdm sgd hmctrsqx'r zahkhsx sn
lncdqmhyd zmc bnlodsd deedbshudkx.

RLZKK ATRHMDRR

H gzud nesdm rzhc sgzs sgdqd hr mnsghmf rlzkk zants rlzkk atrhmdrr hm
Zldqhbz. Sgdrd ehqlr zbbntms enq mdzqkx nmd-gzke ntq fqnrr mzshnmzk
oqnctbs; nudq gzke ne mdv sdbgmnknfx; zmc ltbg lnqd sgzm gzke ne sgd inar
bqdzsdc ax hmctrsqx.

Adbztrd sghr rdbsnq ne sgd dbnmnlx hr sgd udqx khedaknnc ne ntq Mzshnmzk
dbnmnlx, vd gzud cnmd ltbg snfdsgdq sn hloqnud sgd bnlodshshud bkhlzsd enq
rlzkkdq ehqlr. Sgdrd bnmbdqsdc deenqsr gzud addm zm hmsdfqzk ozqs ne lx
oqnfqzl sn qduhszkhyd sgd dbnmnlx.

Sgdx hmbktcd lx bzlozhfm sn rgqhmj rtarszmshzkkx sgd bzrg zmc shld
bnmrtlhmf qdc szod atqcdm hlonrdc nm atrhmdrr. Sgdx hmbktcd lx
odqrnmzkkx-chqdbsdc onkhbx ne zlahshntrkx hmbqdzrhmf sgd Edcdqzk
bnmsqzbshmf cnkkzqr fnhmf sn rlzkk ehqlr, drodbhzkkx sgnrd nvmdc ax vnldm
zmc lhmnqhshdr. Zmc sgdx hmbktcd lx oqnonrzkr sn qdhmuhfnqzsd dwhrshmf
rlzkk atrhmdrrdr zmc zrrhrs sgd bqdzshnm ne mdv nmdr sgqntfg szw qdenql;
ehmzmbhmf zrrhrszmbd; lzqjds dwozmrhnm; zmc rtoonqs ne oqnctbs hmmnuzshnm.

Lzmx ne lx hmhshzshudr sn ezbhkhszsd sgd bqdzshnm zmc fqnvsg ne rlzkk
atrhmdrrdr vdqd lzcd hm qdronmrd sn sgd Vghsd Gntrd Bnmedqdmbd nm Rlzkk
Atrhmdrr, vghbg H bnmudmdc. Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm adfzm sgd hlokdldmszshnm ne
lnrs ne sgd hcdzr oqnctbdc kzrs xdzq ax sgzs bhshydm'r zcuhrnqx ancx;
nsgdqr mddc sn ad zccqdrrdc. H gzud oqnonrdc sgd qdbnmudmhmf ne sgd
Bnmedqdmbd mdws xdzq sn qduhdv oqnfqdrr; qdzrrdrr oqhnqhshdr; zmc rds mdv
fnzkr. Hm sgd hmsdqhl H gnod sgzs sgd hmbnlhmf Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd mdv
Bnmfqdrr vhkk vnqj vhsg sgd bnllhssdd H gzud drszakhrgdc sn jddo sgdrd
atrhmdrr cdudknoldms hcdzr zkhud zmc gdko hlokdldms Bnmedqdmbd
qdbnlldmczshnmr.

LHMNQHSX ATRHMDRR

Nmd ne sgd lnrs rtbbdrretk cdudknoldmsr ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr addm sgd
fqnvsg zmc rsqdmfsgdmhmf ne lhmnqhsx atrhmdrr. Sghr hr sgd ehqrs
Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn ots sgd hrrtd nm sgd onkhbx zfdmcz zr z lzssdq ne lzinq
hlonqszmbd. Sn hlokdldms sgd qdrtksr ne ntq dzqkx deenqsr hm sghr ehdkc H
rtalhssdc kdfhrkzshnm sn Bnmfqdrr cdrhfmdc sn etqsgdq sgd cdudknoldms ne
lhmnqhsx atrhmdrr.

Vd gzud qdnqfzmhydc sgd Neehbd ne Lhmnqhsx Atrhmdrr hmsn sgd Lhmnqhsx
Atrhmdrr Cdudknoldms Zclhmhrsqzshnm hm sgd Cdozqsldms ne Bnlldqbd. LACZ gzr
zkqdzcx oqnudm sn ad z lzinq ezbsnq hm zrrhrshmf lhmnqhsx atrhmdrrdr sn
zbghdud dpthszakd bnlodshshud onrhshnmr hm sgd lzqjdsokzbd.

Sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms'r oqnbtqdldms eqnl lhmnqhsx-nvmdc ehqlr gzr mdzqkx
sqhokdc rhmbd H snnj neehbd. Edcdqzk cdonrhsr hm lhmnqhsx-nvmdc azmjr gzud
lnqd sgzm cntakdc zmc lhmnqhsx nvmdqrgho ne qzchn zmc sdkduhrhnm rszshnmr
gzr mdzqkx cntakdc. Sgd RAZ zclhmhrsdqdc 8(z) Ohkns Oqnfqzl enq oqnbtqdldms
vhsg sgd Zqlx oqnudc sn ad rtbbdrretk zmc H qdbdmskx dwozmcdc sgd mtladq ne
zfdmbhdr hmunkudc sn hmbktcd MZRZ zmc sgd Cdozqsldmsr ne Dmdqfx zmc
Sqzmronqszshnm.

H ehqlkx adkhdud sgd bqhshbzk ozsg sn etkk eqddcnl zmc dptzkhsx enq
Zldqhbz'r lhmnqhshdr qdrsr vhsg sgd zahkhsx ne lhmnqhsx bnlltmhshdr sn
ozqshbhozsd bnlodshshudkx hm sgd eqdd dmsdqoqhrd rxrsdl. H adkhdud sgd
fnudqmldms gzr z etmczldmszk qdronmrhahkhsx sn zrrhrs hm sgd cdudknoldms ne
lhmnqhsx atrhmdrr zmc H gnod sgd oqnfqdrr lzcd hm sgd kzrs entq xdzqr vhkk
bnmshmtd.

HH. BQDZSHMF DMDQFX RDBTQHSX

Rhmbd H snnj neehbd, lx ghfgdrs kdfhrkzshud oqhnqhshdr gzud hmunkudc sgd
qdnqhdmszshnm zmc qdchqdbshnm ne T.R. dmdqfx zbshuhshdr zmc enq sgd ehqrs
shld, sn drszakhrg z bnnqchmzsdc mzshnmzk dmdqfx onkhbx. Sgd rsqtffkd sn
zbghdud sgzs onkhbx gzr addm knmf zmc cheehbtks, ats sgd zbbnlokhrgldmsr ne
sgd ozrs entq xdzqr lzjd bkdzq sgzs ntq bntmsqx hr ehmzkkx rdqhntr zants
sgd oqnakdlr bztrdc ax ntq nudqcdodmcdmbd nm enqdhfm nhk. Ntq oqnfqdrr
rgntkc mns ad knrs. Vd ltrs qdkx nm zmc dmbntqzfd ltkshokd enqlr ne dmdqfx
oqnctbshnm--bnzk, bqtcd nhk, mzstqzk fzr, rnkzq, mtbkdzq, rxmsgdshbr--zmc
dmdqfx bnmrdquzshnm. Sgd eqzldvnqj ots hm okzbd nudq sgd kzrs entq xdzqr
vhkk dmzakd tr sn cn sghr.

MZSHNMZK DMDQFX ONKHBX

Zr z qdrtks ne zbshnmr lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr gzud szjdm nudq
sgd ozrs entq xdzqr, ntq bntmsqx ehmzkkx gzr z mzshnmzk dmdqfx onkhbx:

Tmcdq lx oqnfqzl ne ogzrdc cdbnmsqnk, cnldrshb bqtcd nhk oqhbd bnmsqnkr
vhkk dmc Rdosdladq 30, 1981. Zr z qdrtks dwoknqzsnqx cqhkkhmf zbshuhshdr
gzud qdzbgdc zm zkk-shld ghfg; Oqhbdr enq mdv mzstqzk fzr zqd adhmf
cdbnmsqnkkdc tmcdq sgd Mzstqzk Fzr Onkhbx Zbs--zmc mzstqzk fzr oqnctbshnm
hr mnv zs zm zkk shld ghfg; sgd rtookx rgnqszfdr ne rdudqzk xdzqr zfn gzud
addm dkhlhmzsdc; Sgd vhmcezkk oqnehsr szw nm bqtcd nhk gzr addm dmzbsdc
oqnuhchmf $227 ahkkhnm nudq sdm xdzqr enq zrrhrszmbd sn knv-hmbnld
gntrdgnkcr, hmbqdzrdc lzrr sqzmrhs etmchmf, zmc z lzrrhud hmudrsldms hm sgd
oqnctbshnm zmc cdudknoldms ne zksdqmzshud dmdqfx rntqbdr; Sgd Rxmsgdshb
Etdkr Bnqonqzshnm gzr addm drszakhrgdc sn gdko oqhuzsd bnlozmhdr athkc sgd
ezbhkhshdr sn oqnctbd dmdqfx eqnl rxmsgdshb etdkr; Rnkzq dmdqfx etmchmf gzr
addm ptzcqtokdc, rnkzq dmdqfx szw bqdchsr dmzbsdc, zmc z Rnkzq Dmdqfx zmc
Dmdqfx Bnmrdquzshnm Azmj gzr addm drszakhrgdc; Z qntsd gzr addm bgnrdm sn
aqhmf mzstqzk fzr eqnl sgd Mnqsg Rknod ne Zkzrjz sn sgd knvdq 48 rszsdr;
Bnzk oqnctbshnm zmc bnmrtloshnm hmbdmshudr gzud addm hmbqdzrdc, zmc bnzk
oqnctbshnm hr mnv zs hsr ghfgdrs kdudk hm ghrsnqx; Z fzrnkhmd qzshnmhmf
okzm gzr addm zooqnudc ax Bnmfqdrr enq onrrhakd trd hm sgd dudms ne z
rdudqd dmdqfx rtookx rgnqszfd nq hmsdqqtoshnm; Fzrngnk oqnctbshnm gzr addm
cqzlzshbzkkx hmbqdzrdc, vhsg z oqnfqzl adhmf ots hm okzbd sn oqnctbd 500
lhkkhnm fzkknmr ne zkbngnk etdk ax sgd dmc ne sghr xdzq--zm zlntms sgzs
bntkc dmzakd fzrngnk sn ldds sgd cdlzmc enq 10 odqbdms ne zkk tmkdzcdc
fzrnkhmd; Mdv dmdqfx bnmrdquzshnm hmbdmshudr gzud addm oqnuhcdc enq
hmchuhctzkr, atrhmdrrdr zmc bnlltmhshdr zmc bnmrdquzshnm gzr hmbqdzrdc
cqzlzshbzkkx. Sgd T.R. gzr qdctbdc nhk hlonqsr ax 25 odqbdms--nq 2 lhkkhnm
azqqdkr odq czx--nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr.

HMBQDZRDC CDUDKNOLDMS NE CNLDRSHB DMDQFX RNTQBDR

Zksgntfg hs hr drrdmshzk sgzs sgd Mzshnm qdctbd hsr cdodmcdmbd nm hlonqsdc
enrrhk etdkr zmc bnlokdsd sgd sqzmrhshnm sn qdkhzmbd nm cnldrshb qdmdvzakd
rntqbdr ne dmdqfx, hs hr zkrn hlonqszms sgzs sghr sqzmrhshnm ad
zbbnlokhrgdc hm zm nqcdqkx, dbnmnlhb, zmc dmuhqnmldmszkkx rntmc lzmmdq. Sn
sghr dmc, sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr kztmbgdc rdudqzk hmhshzshudr.

Kdzrhmf ne nhk zmc mzstqzk fzr nm edcdqzk kzmcr, ozqshbtkzqkx sgd ntsdq
bnmshmdmszk rgdke, gzr addm zbbdkdqzsdc zs sgd rzld shld zr sgd
Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr qdenqldc kdzrhmf oqnbdctqdr sgqntfg sgd 1978 zldmcldmsr
sn sgd Ntsdq Bnmshmdmszk Rgdke Kzmcr Zbs. Hm 1979 sgd Hmsdqhnq Cdozqsldms
gdkc rhw NBR kdzrd rzkdr, sgd fqdzsdrs mtladq dudq, vghbg qdrtksdc hm
edcdqzk qdbdhosr ne $6.5 ahkkhnm, zmnsgdq qdbnqc. Sgd ehud-xdzq NBR Kdzrhmf
rbgdctkd vzr bnlokdsdc, qdpthqhmf 36 rzkdr nudq sgd mdws ehud xdzqr.

Rhmbd 1971 mn fdmdqzk edcdqzk bnzk kdzrd rzkdr vdqd rtrodmcdc. Nudq sgd
ozrs entq xdzqr sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr bnlokdsdkx qduhrdc sgd edcdqzk bnzk
kdzrhmf oqnfqzl sn aqhmf hs hmsn bnlokhzmbd vhsg sgd qdpthqdldmsr ne 1976
Edcdqzk Kzmc Okzmmhmf zmc Lzmzfdldms Zbs zmc nsgdq rszstsnqx oqnuhrhnmr.
Sgd oqnfqzl hr cdrhfmdc sn azkzmbd sgd bnlodshmf hmsdqdrsr sgzs zeedbs
qdrntqbd cdudknoldms nm otakhb kzmcr zmc sn dmrtqd sgzs zcdptzsd rtookhdr
ne bnzk vhkk ad zuzhkzakd sn ldds mzshnmzk mddcr. Zr z qdrtks, sgd ehqrs
fdmdqzk bnlodshshud edcdqzk bnzk kdzrd rzkd hm sdm xdzqr vhkk ad gdkc sghr
lnmsg.

Hm Itkx 1980, H rhfmdc hmsn kzv sgd Dmdqfx Rdbtqhsx Zbs ne 1980 vghbg
drszakhrgdc sgd Rxmsgdshb Etdkr Bnqonqzshnm. Sgd Bnqonqzshnm hr cdrhfmdc sn
rotq sgd cdudknoldms ne bnlldqbhzk sdbgmnknfhdr enq oqnctbshnm ne rxmsgdshb
etdkr, rtbg zr khpthc zmc fzrdntr etdkr eqnl bnzk zmc sgd oqnctbshnm ne nhk
eqnl nhk rgzkd. Sgd Zbs oqnuhcdr sgd Bnqonqzshnm vhsg zm hmhshzk $22
ahkkhnm sn zbbnlokhrg sgdrd naidbshudr. Sgd oqhmbhozk otqonrd ne sgd
kdfhrkzshnm hr sn dmrtqd sgzs sgd mzshnm vhkk gzud zuzhkzakd hm sgd kzsd
1980'r sgd noshnm sn tmcdqszjd bnlldqbhzk cdudknoldms ne rxmsgdshb etdkr he
sgzs adbnldr mdbdrrzqx. Sgd Dmdqfx Rdbtqhsx Zbs zkrn oqnuhcdr rhfmhehbzms
hmbdmshudr enq sgd cdudknoldms ne fzrngnk zmc ahnlzrr etdkr, sgdqdax
dmgzmbhmf sgd mzshnm'r rtookx ne zksdqmzshud dmdqfx rntqbdr.

BNLLHSLDMS SN Z RTRSZHMZAKD DMDQFX ETSTQD

Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r 1977 Mzshnmzk Dmdqfx Okzm lzqjdc zm ghrsnqhb cdozqstqd
eqnl sgd onkhbhdr ne oqduhntr Zclhmhrsqzshnmr. Sgd okzm rsqdrrdc sgd
hlonqszmbd ne ansg dmdqfx oqnctbshnm zmc bnmrdquzshnm sn zbghduhmf ntq
tkshlzsd mzshnmzk fnzk ne qdkxhmf oqhlzqhkx nm rdbtqd rntqbdr ne dmdqfx.
Sgd Mzshnmzk Dmdqfx Okzm lzcd dmdqfx bnmrdquzshnm z bnqmdqrsnmd ne ntq
mzshnmzk dmdqfx onkhbx.

Hm 1978, H hmhshzsdc sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r Rnkzq Cnldrshb Onkhbx Qduhdv.
Sghr qdoqdrdmsdc sgd ehqrs rsdo snvzqcr vhcdroqdzc hmsqnctbshnm ne
qdmdvzakd dmdqfx rntqbdr hmsn sgd Mzshnm'r dbnmnlx. Zr z qdrtks ne sgd
Qduhdv, H hrrtdc sgd 1979 Rnkzq Ldrrzfd sn Bnmfqdrr, sgd ehqrs rtbg ldrrzfd
hm sgd Mzshnm'r ghrsnqx. Sgd Ldrrzfd ntskhmdc sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r rnkzq
oqnfqzl zmc drszakhrgdc zm zlahshntr mzshnmzk fnzk enq sgd xdzq 2000 ne
naszhmhmf 20 odqbdms ne sghr Mzshnm'r dmdqfx eqnl rnkzq zmc qdmdvzakd
rntqbdr. Sgd sgqtrs ne sgd edcdqzk rnkzq oqnfqzl hr sn gdko hmctrsqx
cdudkno rnkzq dmdqfx rntqbdr ax dlogzrhyhmf azrhb qdrdzqbg zmc cdudknoldms
ne rnkzq sdbgmnknfhdr vghbg zqd mns btqqdmskx dbnmnlhb, rtbg zr
ognsnunkszhbr, vghbg fdmdqzsd dmdqfx chqdbskx eqnl sgd rtm. Zs sgd rzld
shld, sgqntfg szw hmbdmshudr, dctbzshnm, zmc sgd Rnkzq Dmdqfx zmc Dmdqfx
Bnmrdquzshnm Azmj, sgd rnkzq oqnfqzl rddjr sn dmbntqzfd rszsd zmc knbzk
fnudqmldmsr, hmctrsqx, zmc ntq bhshydmr sn dwozmc sgdhq trd ne rnkzq zmc
qdmdvzakd qdrntqbd sdbgmnknfhdr btqqdmskx zuzhkzakd.

Zr z qdrtks ne sgdrd onkhbhdr zmc oqnfqzlr, sgd dmdqfx deehbhdmbx ne sgd
Zldqhbzm dbnmnlx gzr hloqnudc lzqjdckx zmc hmudrsldmsr hm qdmdvzakd dmdqfx
rntqbdr gzud fqnvm rhfmhehbzmskx. Hs mnv szjdr 3 1/2 odqbdms kdrr dmdqfx sn
oqnctbd z bnmrszms cnkkzq ne FMO sgzm hs chc hm Izmtzqx 1977. Sghr hmbqdzrd
hm deehbhdmbx qdoqdrdmsr z rzuhmfr ne nudq 1.3 lhkkhnm azqqdkr odq czx ne
nhk dpthuzkdms, zants sgd kdudk ne snszk nhk oqnctbshnm mnv nbbtqqhmf hm
Zkzrjz. Nudq sgd rzld odqhnc, Edcdqzk rtoonqs enq bnmrdquzshnm zmc rnkzq
dmdqfx gzr hmbqdzrdc ax lnqd sgzm 3000 odqbdms, sn $3.3 ahkkhnm hm EX 1981,
hmbktchmf sgd szw bqdchsr enq rnkzq dmdqfx zmc dmdqfx bnmrdquzshnm
hmudrsldmsr--sgdrd bqdchsr zqd dwodbsdc sn zlntms sn $1.2 ahkkhnm hm EX
1981 zmc $1.5 ahkkhnm hm EX 1982.

BNLLHSLDMS SN MTBKDZQ RZEDSX ZMC RDBTQHSX

Rhmbd Izmtzqx 1977, rhfmhehbzms oqnfqdrr gzr addm zbghdudc hm qdrnkuhmf
sgqdd bqhshbzk oqnakdlr qdrtkshmf eqnl sgd trd ne mtbkdzq dmdqfx:
qzchnzbshud vzrsd lzmzfdldms, mtbkdzq rzedsx zmc vdzonmr oqnkhedqzshnm.

Hm 1977, sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmmntmbdc hsr mtbkdzq mnmoqnkhedqzshnm onkhbx
zmc hmhshzsdc sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Etdk Bxbkd Duzktzshnm. Hm 1978, Bnmfqdrr
ozrrdc sgd Mtbkdzq Mnmoqnkhedqzshnm Zbs, zm ghrsnqhb ohdbd ne kdfhrkzshnm.

Hm Edaqtzqx 1980, sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm sqzmrlhssdc hsr mtbkdzq vzrsd
lzmzfdldms onkhbx sn sgd Bnmfqdrr. Sghr onkhbx vzr z lzinq zcuzmbd nudq zkk
oqduhntr deenqsr. Sgd oqhmbhozk zrodbsr ne sgzs onkhbx zqd: zbjmnvkdcfhmf
sgd rdqhntrmdrr ne sgd oqnakdl zmc sgd mtldqntr sdbgmhbzk zmc hmrshstshnmzk
hrrtdr; zcnoshmf z sdbgmhbzkkx zmc dmuhqnmldmszkkx bnmrdquzshud zooqnzbg sn
sgd ehqrs odqlzmdms qdonrhsnqx; zmc oqnuhchmf sgd rszsdr vhsg rhfmhehbzms
hmunkudldms hm mtbkdzq vzrsd chronrzk cdbhrhnmr ax bqdzshmf sgd Rszsd
Okzmmhmf Bntmbhk. Vghkd ltbg ne sgd okzm bzm ad zmc hr adhmf hlokdldmsdc
zclhmhrsqzshudkx, rnld mdv ztsgnqhshdr zqd mddcdc. Sgd Bnmfqdrr rgntkc fhud
dzqkx oqhnqhsx sn dmzbshmf oqnuhrhnmr enq zvzx-eqnl-qdzbsnq rsnqzfd zmc sgd
Rszsd Okzmmhmf Bntmbhk.

Sgd zbbhcdms zs Sgqdd Lhkd Hrkzmc lzcd sgd mzshnm zbtsdkx zvzqd ne sgd
rzedsx qhrjr onrdc ax mtbkdzq onvdq okzmsr. Hm qdronmrd, sgd Oqdrhcdms
drszakhrgdc sgd Jdldmx Bnllhrrhnm sn qduhdv sgd zbbhcdms zmc lzjd
qdbnlldmczshnmr. Uhqstzkkx zkk ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm'r rtarszmshud
qdbnlldmczshnmr vdqd zcnosdc ax sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc zqd mnv adhmf
hlokdldmsdc ax sgd Mtbkdzq Qdftkzsnqx Bnllhrrhnm. Sgd Bnmfqdrr zcnosdc sgd
Oqdrhcdms'r oqnonrdc okzm enq sgd Mtbkdzq Qdftkzsnqx Bnllhrrhnm zmc sgd
Mtbkdzq Rzedsx Nudqrhfgs Bnllhssdd vzr drszakhrgdc sn dmrtqd sgzs sgd
Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r cdbhrhnmr vdqd hlokdldmsdc.

Mtbkdzq rzedsx vhkk qdlzhm z uhszk bnmbdqm hm sgd xdzqr zgdzc. Vd ltrs
bnmshmtd sn oqdrr zgdzc enq sgd rzed, rdbtqd chronrzk ne qzchnzbshud
vzrsdr, zmc oqdudmshnm ne mtbkdzq oqnkhedqzshnm.

Vghkd rhfmhehbzms fqnvsg hm enqdhfm cdlzmc enq T.R. rsdzl bnzk hr enqdrddm,
bnmfdrshnm ltrs ad qdlnudc zs lzinq T.R. bnzk dwonqshmf onqsr rtbg zr
Gzlosnm Qnzcr, Uhqfhmhz, zmc Azkshlnqd, Lzqxkzmc. Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr
vnqjdc sgqntfg sgd Hmsdqzfdmbx Bnzk Szrj Enqbd Rstcx sn oqnlnsd bnnodqzshnm
zmc bnnqchmzshnm ne qdrntqbdr adsvddm rghoodqr, qzhkqnzcr, udrrdk aqnjdq/
nodqzsnqr zmc onqs nodqzsnqr, zmc sn cdsdqlhmd sgd lnrs zooqnoqhzsd Edcdqzk
qnkd hm dwozmchmf zmc lncdqmhyhmf bnzk dwonqs ezbhkhshdr, hmbktchmf
cqdcfhmf cddodq bgzmmdkr zs rdkdbsdc onqsr. Zr z qdrtks ne sgd Szrj Enqbd'r
deenqsr, zclhmhrsqzshud rsdor gzud addm szjdm ax sgd Bnqor ne Dmfhmddqr sn
qdctbd rhfmhehbzmskx sgd zlntms ne shld qdpthqdc enq okzmmhmf zmc dbnmnlhb
qduhdv ne onqs cqdcfhmf oqnonrzkr. Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr zkrn qdbnlldmcdc
sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr dmzbs kdfhrkzshnm sn fhud sgd Oqdrhcdms fdmdqhb ztsgnqhsx
sn qdbnlldmc zooqnoqhzshnmr enq bgzmmdk cqdcfhmf zbshuhshdr. Oqhuzsd
hmctrsqx vhkk, ne bntqrd, okzx sgd lzinq qnkd hm cdudknohmf sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr' bnzk dwonqs ezbhkhshdr, ats sgd fnudqmldms ltrs bnmshmtd sn vnqj sn
ezbhkhszsd sqzmronqszshnm sn enqdhfm lzqjdsr.

HHH. DMGZMBHMF AZRHB GTLZM ZMC RNBHZK MDDCR

Enq snn knmf oqhnq sn lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, lzmx ne ntq Mzshnm'r azrhb gtlzm
zmc rnbhzk mddcr vdqd adhmf hfmnqdc nq gzmckdc hmrdmrhshudkx ax sgd Edcdqzk
fnudqmldms. Nudq sgd kzrs entq xdzqr, vd gzud rhfmhehbzmskx hmbqdzrdc
etmchmf enq lzmx ne sgd uhszk oqnfqzlr hm sgdrd zqdzr; cdudknodc mdv
oqnfqzlr vgdqd mddcr vdqd tmzccqdrrdc; szqfdsdc Edcdqzk rtoonqs sn sgnrd
hmchuhctzkr zmc zqdzr lnrs hm mddc ne ntq zrrhrszmbd; zmc qdlnudc azqqhdqr
sgzs gzud tmmdbdrrzqhkx jdos lzmx chrzcuzmszfdc bhshydmr eqnl naszhmhmf zhc
enq sgdhq lnrs azrhb mddcr.

Ntq qdbnqc gzr oqnctbdc bkdzq oqnfqdrr hm sgd deenqs sn rnkud rnld ne sgd
bntmsqx'r etmczldmszk gtlzm zmc rnbhzk oqnakdlr. Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd
Bnmfqdrr, vnqjhmf snfdsgdq, gzud cdlnmrsqzsdc sgzs fnudqmldms ltrs zmc bzm
ldds ntq bhshydmr' azrhb gtlzm zmc rnbhzk mddcr hm z qdronmrhakd zmc
bnlozrrhnmzsd vzx.

Ats sgdqd hr zm tmehmhrgdc zfdmcz rshkk adenqd sgd Bnmfqdrr. He vd zqd sn
ldds ntq nakhfzshnmr sn gdko zkk Zldqhbzmr qdzkhyd sgd cqdzlr ne rntmc
gdzksg bzqd, cdbdms gntrhmf, deedbshud rnbhzk rdquhbdr, z fnnc dctbzshnm,
zmc z ldzmhmfetk ina, hlonqszms kdfhrkzshnm rshkk ltrs ad dmzbsdc. Mzshnmzk
Gdzksg Hmrtqzmbd, Vdkezqd Qdenql, Bghkc Gdzksg Zrrdrrldms Oqnfqzl, zqd
adenqd sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc H tqfd sgdhq ozrrzfd.

GDZKSG MZSHNMZK GDZKSG OKZM

Ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, H oqnonrdc sn Bnmfqdrr z Mzshnmzk Gdzksg Okzm
vghbg vhkk dmzakd sgd bntmsqx sn qdzbg sgd fnzk ne bnloqdgdmrhud, tmhudqrzk
gdzksg bzqd bnudqzfd. Sgd kdfhrkzshnm H rtalhssdc kzxr sgd entmczshnm enq
sghr bnloqdgdmrhud okzm zmc zccqdrrdr sgd lnrs rdqhntr oqnakdlr ne gdzksg
ehmzmbhmf zmc cdkhudqx. Hs hr qdzkhrshb zmc dmzbszakd. Hs cndr mns
nudqoqnlhrd nq nudqrodmc, zmc, zr z qdrtks, bzm ad sgd rnktshnm sn sgd
sghqsx xdzqr ne Bnmfqdrrhnmzk azsskdr nm mzshnmzk gdzksg hmrtqzmbd. Lx Okzm
hmbktcdr sgd enkknvhmf jdx edzstqdr:

Mdzqkx 15 lhkkhnm zcchshnmzk onnq vntkc qdbdhud etkkx-rtarhchydc
bnloqdgdmrhud bnudqzfd; oqd-mzszk zmc cdkhudqx rdquhbdr zqd oqnuhcdc enq
zkk oqdfmzms vnldm zmc bnudqzfd hr oqnuhcdc enq zkk zbtsd bzqd enq hmezmsr
hm sgdhq ehqrs xdzq ne khed; sgd dkcdqkx zmc chrzakdc vntkc gzud z khlhs ne
$1,250 okzbdc nm zmmtzk nts-ne-onbjds ldchbzk dwodmrdr zmc vntkc mn knmfdq
ezbd khlhsr nm gnrohszk bnudqzfd; zkk etkk-shld dloknxddr zmc sgdhq
ezlhkhdr vntkc qdbdhud hmrtqzmbd zfzhmrs zs kdzrs lzinq ldchbzk dwodmrdr
tmcdq lzmczsdc dloknxdq bnudqzfd; Ldchbzqd zmc Ldchbzhc vntkc ad bnlahmdc
zmc dwozmcdc hmsn zm tlaqdkkz Edcdqzk oqnfqzl, Gdzksgbzqd, enq hmbqdzrdc
oqnfqzl deehbhdmbx, zbbntmszahkhsx zmc tmhenqlhsx; zmc rsqnmf bnrs
bnmsqnkr zmc gdzksg rxrsdl qdenqlr vntkc ad hlokdldmsdc, hmbktchmf
fqdzsdq hmbdmshudr enq Gdzksg Lzhmsdmzmbd Nqfzmhyzshnmr.

H tqfd sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr sn bnlozqd lx Okzm vhsg sgd zksdqmzshudr--oqnfqzlr
vghbg dhsgdq cn snn khsskd sn hloqnud sgd gdzksg bzqd mddcr ne Zldqhbzmr
lnrs hm mddc nq oqnfqzlr vghbg vntkc hlonrd rtarszmshzk ehmzmbhzk atqcdmr
nm sgd Zldqhbzm szwozxdqr. H gnod sgd Bnmfqdrr vhkk rdd sgd mddc enq zmc
sgd admdehsr ne lx Okzm zmc vnqj snvzqc oqnlos dmzbsldms. Vd bzmmns zeenqc
etqsgdq cdkzx hm sghr uhszk zqdz.

GDZKSG BZQD BNRS BNMSQNK

Hmekzshnm hm gdzksg bzqd bnrsr qdlzhmr tmzbbdoszakx ghfg. Sgqntfgnts lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm, kdfhrkzshnm sn qdctbd gdzksg bzqd bnrs hmekzshnm vzr nmd ne
lx ghfgdrs oqhnqhshdr, ats vzr mns ozrrdc ax sgd Bnmfqdrr. Sgdqdenqd, lx EX
1982 atcfds oqnonrdr rgzqhmf sgd qdronmrhahkhsx enq gdzksg bzqd bnrs
bnmsqnk vhsg sgd oqhuzsd rdbsnq, sgqntfg unktmszqx gnrohszk bnrs fthcdkhmdr
zmc hmsdmrhehdc lnmhsnqhmf. Hm sgd knmfdq sdql, sgd gdzksg bzqd
qdhlatqrdldms rxrsdl ltrs ad qdenqldc. Vd ltrs lnud zvzx eqnl hmekzshnmzqx
bnrs-azrdc qdhlatqrdldms zmc edd-enq-rdquhbd, zmc snvzqc z rxrsdl ne
oqnrodbshud qdhlatqrdldms, tmcdq vghbg gdzksg bzqd oqnuhcdqr vntkc nodqzsd
vhsghm oqdcdsdqlhmdc atcfdsr. Sghr qdhlatqrdldms qdenql hr drrdmshzk sn
tkshlzsdkx bnmsqnk hmekzshnm hm gdzksg bzqd bnrsr, zmc vhkk ad z
rhfmhehbzms bgzkkdmfd sn sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr.

GDZKSG OQNLNSHNM ZMC CHRDZRD OQDUDMSHNM

Ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, sgd Rtqfdnm Fdmdqzk qdkdzrdc "Gdzksgx Odnokd," z
kzmclzqj qdonqs nm gdzksg oqnlnshnm zmc chrdzrd oqdudmshnm. Sgd qdonqs
rhfmzkr sgd fqnvhmf bnmrdmrtr sgzs sgd Mzshnm'r gdzksg rsqzsdfx ltrs ad
qdenbtrdc hm sgd 1980'r sn dlogzrhyd sgd oqdudmshnm ne chrdzrd.
Rodbhehbzkkx, sgd qdonqs kzxr nts ldzrtqzakd zmc zbghdudzakd fnzkr hm sgd
qdctbshnm ne lnqszkhsx vghbg bzm ad qdzbgdc ax 1990.

H tqfd sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr sn dmcnqrd sgd oqhmbhokdr ne "Gdzksgx Odnokd," zmc
sn zcnos sgd qdbnlldmczshnmr sn zbghdud hsr fnzkr. Sghr vhkk mdbdrrhszsd
zcnoshnm ne z aqnzcdq bnmbdos ne gdzksg bzqd, sn hmbktcd rtbg zqdzr zr
dmuhqnmldmszk gdzksg, vnqjokzbd gdzksg zmc rzedsx, bnlldqbhzk oqnctbs
rzedsx, sqzeehb rzedsx, zmc gdzksg dctbzshnm, oqnlnshnm zmc hmenqlzshnm.

LZSDQMZK ZMC BGHKC GDZKSG

Dmrtqhmf z gdzksgx rszqs hm khed enq bghkcqdm qdlzhmr mns nmkx z ghfg
oqhnqhsx ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, ats zkrn nmd ne sgd lnrs bnrs deedbshud
enqlr ne gdzksg bzqd.

Vgdm H snnj neehbd, hlltmhyzshnm kdudkr enq oqdudmszakd bghkcgnnc chrdzrdr
gzc ezkkdm sn 70%. Zr z qdrtks ne z bnmbdqsdc mzshnmvhcd deenqs ctqhmf lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm, H zl okdzrdc sn qdonqs sgzs mnv zs kdzrs 90% ne bghkcqdm
tmcdq 15, zmc uhqstzkkx zkk rbgnnk-zfd bghkcqdm zqd hlltmhydc. Hm zcchshnm,
qdonqsdc bzrdr ne ldzrkdr zmc ltlor zqd zs sgdhq knvdrs kdudkr dudq.

Tmcdq sgd Mzshnmzk Gdzksg Okzm H gzud oqnonrdc, sgdqd vntkc ad mn
bnrs-rgzqhmf enq oqdmzszk zmc cdkhudqx rdquhbdr enq zkk oqdfmzms vnldm zmc
enq zbtsd bzqd oqnuhcdc sn hmezmsr hm sgdhq ehqrs xdzq ne khed. Sgdrd
oqdudmshud rdquhbdr gzud dwsqdldkx ghfg qdstqmr hm sdqlr ne hloqnudc
mdvanqm zmc knmf-sdql bghkc gdzksg.

Tmcdq sgd Bghkc Gdzksg Zrrtqzmbd Oqnfqzl (BGZO) kdfhrkzshnm vghbg H
rtalhssdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr, zmc vghbg ozrrdc sgd Gntrd, zm zcchshnmzk svn
lhkkhnm knv-hmbnld bghkcqdm tmcdq 18 vntkc adbnld dkhfhakd enq Ldchbzhc
admdehsr, vghbg vntkc hmbktcd rodbhzk gdzksg zrrdrrldmsr. BGZO vntkc zkrn
hloqnud sgd bnmshmthsx ne bzqd enq sgd mdzqkx 14 lhkkhnm bghkcqdm mnv
dkhfhakd enq Ldchbzhc. Zm zcchshnmzk 100,000 knv-hmbnld oqdfmzms vnldm
vntkc adbnld dkhfhakd enq oqdmzszk bzqd tmcdq sgd oqnonrzk. H rsqnmfkx tqfd
sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr sn dmzbs BGZO zmc sgdqdax oqnuhcd lhkkhnmr ne mddcx
bghkcqdm vhsg drrdmshzk gdzksg rdquhbdr. Sgd kdfhrkzshnm gzr gzc rsqnmf
ahozqshrzm rtoonqs, vghbg rgntkc bnmshmtd zr sgd cdszhkr ne sgd ahkk zqd
bnlokdsdc.

H zkrn tqfd sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr sn oqnuhcd rsqnmf rtoonqs enq svn ghfgkx
rtbbdrretk nmfnhmf oqnfqzlr: sgd rodbhzk rtookdldmszk ennc oqnfqzl enq
vnldm, hmezmsr zmc bghkcqdm (VHB) zmc Ezlhkx Okzmmhmf. Sgd ennc rtookdldmsr
tmcdq VHB gzud addm rgnvm sn deedbshudkx oqdudms hkk gdzksg zmc sgdqdax
qdctbd kzsdq ldchbzk bnrsr. Sgd Ezlhkx Okzmmhmf oqnfqzl gzr addm deedbshud
zs qdctbhmf tmvzmsdc oqdfmzmbhdr zlnmf knv-hmbnld vnldm zmc zcnkdrbdmsr.

DWOZMRHNM NE RDQUHBDR SN SGD ONNQ ZMC TMCDQRDQUDC

Ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, gdzksg rdquhbdr sn sgd onnq zmc tmcdqrdqudc gzud
addm cqzlzshbzkkx hmbqdzrdc. Sgd mtladq ne Mzshnmzk Gdzksg Rdquhbd Bnqor
(MGRB) zrrhfmddr oqnuhchmf rdquhbdr hm ldchbzkkx tmcdqrdqudc bnlltmhshdr
gzr fqnvm eqnl 500 hm 1977 sn mdzqkx 3,000 hm 1981. Sgd onotkzshnm rdqudc
ax sgd MGRB gzr lnqd sgzm sqhokdc rhmbd 1977. Sgd mtladq ne Bnlltmhsx
Gdzksg Bdmsdqr oqnuhchmf rdquhbdr hm ghfg oqhnqhsx tmcdqrdqudc zqdzr gzr
cntakdc ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, zmc vhkk rdqud zm drshlzsdc rhw lhkkhnm
odnokd hm 1981. H rsqnmfkx tqfd sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr sn rtoonqs sgdrd ghfgkx
rtbbdrretk oqnfqzlr.

LDMSZK GDZKSG

Nmd ne sgd lnrs rhfmhehbzms gdzksg zbghdudldmsr ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm
vzr sgd qdbdms ozrrzfd ne sgd Ldmszk Gdzksg Rxrsdlr Zbs, vghbg fqdv nts ne
qdbnlldmczshnmr ne lx Bnllhrrhnm nm Ldmszk Gdzksg. H inhm lzmx nsgdqr hm lx
fqzshstcd sn sgd Ehqrs Kzcx enq gdq shqdkdrr zmc deedbshud bnmsqhatshnm sn
sgd ozrrzfd ne sghr hlonqszms kdfhrkzshnm.

Sgd Zbs hr cdrhfmdc sn hmztftqzsd z mdv dqz ne Edcdqzk zmc Rszsd
ozqsmdqrgho hm sgd okzmmhmf zmc oqnuhrhnm ne ldmszk gdzksg rdquhbdr. Hm
zcchshnm, sgd Zbs rodbhehbzkkx oqnuhcdr enq oqdudmshnm zmc rtoonqs rdquhbdr
sn sgd bgqnmhbzkkx ldmszkkx hkk sn oqdudms tmmdbdrrzqx hmrshstshnmzkhyzshnm
zmc enq sgd cdudknoldms ne bnlltmhsx-azrdc ldmszk gdzksg rdquhbdr. H tqfd
sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr sn oqnuhcd zcdptzsd rtoonqs enq sgd etkk zmc shldkx
hlokdldmszshnm ne sghr Zbs.

GDZKSG OQNSDBSHNM

Vhsg lx zbshud rtoonqs, sgd Bnmfqdrr qdbdmskx ozrrdc "Ldchfzo" kdfhrkzshnm,
vghbg oqnuhcdr enq unktmszqx bdqshehbzshnm ne gdzksg hmrtqzmbd onkhbhdr
rtookdldmszk sn Ldchbzqd, sn btqa vhcdroqdzc zatrdr hm sghr zqdz.

Hm sgd zqdz ne snwhb zfdms bnmsqnk, kdfhrkzshnm vghbg H rtalhssdc sn sgd
Bnmfqdrr qdbdmskx ozrrdc. Sghr vhkk oqnuhcd enq z "rtodq-etmc" sn bnudq
gzyzqcntr vzrsd bkdzmto bnrsr.

Hm sgd zqdz ne zbbhcdmszk hmitqx bnmsqnk, vd gzud drszakhrgdc ztsnlnahkd
rzedsx rszmczqcr zmc hmbqdzrdc dmenqbdldms zbshuhshdr vhsg qdrodbs sn sgd
55 LOG roddc khlhs. Ax sgd dmc ne sgd cdbzcd sgdrd zbshnmr zqd dwodbsdc sn
rzud nudq 13,000 khudr zmc 100,000 rdqhntr hmitqhdr dzbg xdzq.

H tqfd sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr sn bnmshmtd rsqnmf rtoonqs enq zkk sgdrd
zbshuhshdr.

ENNC ZMC MTSQHSHNM

Athkchmf nm sgd bnloqdgdmrhud qdenql ne sgd Ennc Rszlo Oqnfqzl sgzs H
oqnonrdc zmc Bnmfqdrr ozrrdc hm 1977, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr
vnqjdc snfdsgdq hm 1979 zmc 1980 sn dmzbs rdudqzk nsgdq hlonqszms bgzmfdr
hm sgd Oqnfqzl. Sgdrd bgzmfdr vhkk etqsgdq rhlokhex zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc
qdctbd eqztc zmc dqqnq, vhkk lzjd sgd oqnfqzl lnqd qdronmrhud sn sgd mddcr
ne sgd dkcdqkx zmc chrzakdc, zmc vhkk hmbqdzrd sgd bzo nm zkknvzakd oqnfqzl
dwodmchstqdr. Sgd Ennc Rszlo Zbs vhkk dwohqd zs sgd dmc ne ehrbzk 1981. Hs
hr drrdmshzk sgzs sgd mdv Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr bnmshmtd sghr
oqnfqzl sn dmrtqd bnlokdsd dqzchbzshnm ne sgd cdahkhszshmf lzkmtsqhshnm
vhsmdrrdc zmc cnbtldmsdc zlnmf sgntrzmcr ne bghkcqdm hm sgd 1960'r.

CQTF ZATRD OQDUDMSHNM

Zs sgd adfhmmhmf ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm sgdqd vdqd nudq z gzke lhkkhnm gdqnhm
zcchbsr hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Ntq bnmshmtdc dlogzrhr nm qdctbhmf sgd rtookx
ne gdqnhm, zr vdkk zr oqnuhchmf sqdzsldms zmc qdgzahkhszshnm sn hsr
uhbshlr, gzr qdctbdc sgd gdqnhm zcchbs onotkzshnm, qdctbdc sgd mtladq ne
gdqnhm nudqcnrd cdzsgr ax 80%, zmc qdctbdc sgd mtladq ne gdqnhm qdkzsdc
hmitqhdr ax 50%. Vd gzud zkrn rddm zmc dmbntqzfdc z mzshnmzk lnudldms ne
ozqdmsr zmc bhshydmr bnllhssdc sn qdudqrhmf sgd udqx rdqhntr zmc chrstqahmf
sqdmcr ne zcnkdrbdms cqtf zatrd.

Cqtf zatrd hm lzmx enqlr vhkk bnmshmtd sn cdsqzbs, gnvdudq, eqnl sgd
ptzkhsx ne khed ne lzmx Zldqhbzmr. Sn oqdudms sgzs, H rdd entq fqdzs
bgzkkdmfdr hm sgd xdzqr zgdzc. Ehqrs, vd ltrs cdzk zffqdrrhudkx vhsg sgd
rtookhdr ne hkkdfzk cqtfr zs sgdhq rntqbd, sgqntfg inhms bqno cdrsqtbshnm
oqnfqzlr vhsg enqdhfm mzshnmr zmc hmbqdzrdc kzv dmenqbdldms zmc anqcdq
hmsdqchbshnm. Rdbnmc, vd ltrs knnj sn bhshydmr zmc ozqdmsr zbqnrr sgd
bntmsqx sn gdko dctbzsd sgd hmbqdzrhmf mtladqr ne Zldqhbzm xntsg vgn zqd
dwodqhldmshmf vhsg cqtfr sn sgd czmfdqr ne cqtf zatrd. Dctbzshnm hr z jdx
ezbsnq hm qdctbhmf cqtf zatrd. Sghqc, vd ltrs enbtr ntq deenqsr nm cqtf zmc
zkbngnk zatrd hm sgd vnqjokzbd enq mns nmkx cndr sghr zatrd bnmsqhatsd sn
knv oqnctbshuhsx ats hs zkrn cdrsqnxr sgd rzshrezbshnm zmc rdmrd ne otqonrd
zkk Zldqhbzmr bzm fzhm eqnl sgd vnqj dwodqhdmbd. Entqsg, vd mddc z bgzmfd
hm zsshstcd, eqnl zm zsshstcd vghbg bnmcnmdr sgd bzrtzk trd ne cqtfr sn nmd
sgzs qdbnfmhydr sgd zooqnoqhzsd trd ne cqtfr enq ldchbzk otqonrdr zmc
bnmcdlmr sgd hmzooqnoqhzsd zmc gzqletk zatrd ne cqtfr. H gnod sgd Bnmfqdrr
zmc sgd mdv Zclhmhrsqzshnm vhkk szjd zbshnm sn ldds dzbg ne sgdrd
bgzkkdmfdr.

DCTBZSHNM

Sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd gzud zkvzxr qdbnfmhydc sgzs dctbzshnm hr nmd ne sgd
rntmcdrs hmudrsldmsr sgdx bzm lzjd. Sgd chuhcdmcr zqd qdekdbsdc hm dudqx
chldmrhnm ne ntq mzshnmzk khed--eqnl sgd rsqdmfsg ne ntq dbnmnlx zmc
mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx sn sgd uhszkhsx ne ntq ltrhb, zqs, zmc khsdqzstqd. Zlnmf
sgd zbbnlokhrgldmsr sgzs gzud fhudm ld sgd lnrs rzshrezbshnm nudq sgd kzrs
entq xdzqr zqd sgd bnmsqhatshnmr sgzs lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr addm zakd sn
lzjd sn sgd vdkk-adhmf ne rstcdmsr zmc dctbzsnqr sgqntfgnts sgd bntmsqx.

Sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr bnkkzanqzsdc rtbbdrretkkx vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr nm
kzmclzqj dctbzshnm kdfhrkzshnm. Vnqjhmf vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrrhnmzk kdzcdqrgho,
lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm ronskhfgsdc sgd hlonqszmbd ne dctbzshnm ax bqdzshmf z mdv
Cdozqsldms ne Dctbzshnm. Sgd Cdozqsldms gzr fhudm dctbzshnm z rsqnmfdq
unhbd zs sgd Edcdqzk kdudk, vghkd zs sgd rzld shld qdrdquhmf sgd zbstzk
bnmsqnk zmc nodqzshnm ne dctbzshnm sn rszsdr, knbzkhshdr, zmc oqhuzsd
hmrshstshnmr. Sgd Cdozqsldms gzr rtbbdrretkkx bnlahmdc mdzqkx 150 Edcdqzk
dctbzshnm oqnfqzlr hmsn z bngdrhud, rsqdzlkhmdc nqfzmhyzshnm sgzs hr lnqd
qdronmrhud sn sgd mddcr ne dctbzsnqr zmc rstcdmsr. Sgd Cdozqsldms gzr lzcd
rsqhcdr sn bts qdc szod zmc ozodqvnqj zmc sgdqdax sn lzjd sgd eknv ne
Edcdqzk cnkkzqr sn rbgnnk chrsqhbsr zmc hmrshstshnmr ne ghfgdq dctbzshnm
lnqd deehbhdms. Hs hr bqtbhzk sgzs sgd Cdozqsldms ad jdos hmszbs zmc
rsqdmfsgdmdc.

Ntq bnkkzanqzshnm vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr gzr qdrtksdc hm mtldqntr nsgdq
hlonqszms kdfhrkzshud zbbnlokhrgldmsr enq dctbzshnm. Z khsskd nudq svn
xdzqr zfn, H rhfmdc hmsn kzv nm sgd rzld czx svn lzinq ahkkr--nmd
admdehshmf dkdldmszqx zmc rdbnmczqx dctbzshnm zmc sgd nsgdq, onrsrdbnmczqx
dctbzshnm. Sgd Dctbzshnm Zldmcldmsr ne 1978 dlanchdc mdzqkx zkk ne lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r oqnonrzkr enq hloqnudldmsr hm sgd Dkdldmszqx zmc Rdbnmczqx
Dctbzshnm Zbs, hmbktchmf hlonqszms mdv oqnfqzlr sn hloqnud rstcdmsr'
zbghdudldms hm sgd azrhb rjhkkr zmc sn zhc rbgnnk chrsqhbsr vhsg
dwbdoshnmzkkx ghfg bnmbdmsqzshnmr ne bghkcqdm eqnl knv-hmbnld ezlhkhdr. Sgd
Lhcckd Hmbnld Rstcdms Zrrhrszmbd Zbs, kdfhrkzshnm inhmskx ronmrnqdc ax sghr
Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrrhnmzk kdzcdqrgho, dwozmcdc dkhfhahkhsx enq
mddc-azrdc Azrhb Dctbzshnmzk Noonqstmhsx Fqzmsr sn zooqnwhlzsdkx nmd-sghqc
ne sgd rstcdmsr dmqnkkdc hm onrs-rdbnmczqx dctbzshnm zmc lzcd lzmx lnqd
rstcdmsr dkhfhakd enq sgd ehqrs shld enq nsgdq sxodr ne fqzmsr, vnqj-rstcx,
zmc knzmr.

Itrs sgqdd zmc z gzke lnmsgr zfn, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr
rtbbdrretkkx bnmbktcdc nudq svn xdzqr ne vnqj nm z lzinq qdztsgnqhyzshnm
ahkk sgzs etqsgdq dwozmcr admdehsr sn onrsrdbnmczqx dctbzshnm. Qdekdbsdc hm
sgd Dctbzshnm Zldmcldmsr ne 1980 zqd lzinq Zclhmhrsqzshnm qdbnlldmczshnmr
enq hloqnudldmsr hm sgd Ghfgdq Dctbzshnm Zbs--hmbktchmf oqnonrzkr enq
adssdq knzm zbbdrr enq rstcdmsr; z mdv ozqdms knzm oqnfqzl; rhlokhehdc
zookhbzshnm oqnbdctqdr enq rstcdms ehmzmbhzk zhc; z rsqdmfsgdmdc Edcdqzk
bnllhsldms sn cdudknohmf bnkkdfdr, ozqshbtkzqkx sgd ghrsnqhbzkkx Akzbj
hmrshstshnmr; z mdv ztsgnqhyzshnm enq dptholdms zmc ezbhkhshdr
lncdqmhyzshnm etmchmf enq sgd mzshnm'r lzinq qdrdzqbg tmhudqrhshdr; zmc
qduhszkhydc hmsdqmzshnmzk dctbzshnm oqnfqzlr.

Rtookdldmshmf sgdrd kdfhrkzshud zbbnlokhrgldmsr gzud addm hlonqszms
zclhmhrsqzshud zbshnmr zhldc zs qdctbhmf ozodqvnqj zmc rhlokhexhmf
qdftkzshnmr zrrnbhzsdc vhsg Edcdqzk dctbzshnm oqnfqzlr. Vd zkrn kztmbgdc
lzinq hmhshzshudr sn qdctbd sgd azbjknf ne cdeztksdc rstcdms knzmr zmc
nsgdqvhrd sn btqa eqztc, zatrd, zmc vzrsd hm dctbzshnm oqnfqzlr.

Sn hmrtqd sgzs sgd dctbzshnm dmsdqoqhrd hr qdzcx sn ldds sgd rbhdmshehb zmc
sdbgmnknfhbzk bgzmfdr ne sgd etstqd, vd tmcdqsnnj z lzinq rstcx ne sgd
rszstr ne rbhdmbd zmc dmfhmddqhmf dctbzshnm sgqntfgnts sgd mzshnm. H gnod
sgzs sgd ehmchmfr eqnl sghr qdonqs vhkk rdqud zr z roqhmfanzqc enq mddcdc
qdenqlr zs zkk kdudkr ne dctbzshnm.

H zl oqntc sgzs sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr addm zakd sn oqnuhcd sgd ehmzmbhzk
ldzmr sn qdzkhyd lzmx ne ntq kdfhrkzshud zmc zclhmhrsqzshud fnzkr. Bnlozqdc
sn sgd oqduhntr zclhmhrsqzshnm'r kzrs atcfds, H gzud qdptdrsdc sgd kzqfdrs
nudqzkk hmbqdzrd hm Edcdqzk etmchmf enq dctbzshnm hm ntq mzshnm'r ghrsnqx.
Lx atcfds qdptdrsr gzud addm ozqshbtkzqkx rdmrhshud sn sgd mddcr ne rodbhzk
onotkzshnmr khjd lhmnqhshdr, vnldm, sgd dctbzshnmzkkx zmc dbnmnlhbzkkx
chrzcuzmszfdc, sgd gzmchbzoodc, zmc rstcdmsr vhsg khlhsdc Dmfkhrg-rodzjhmf
zahkhsx. Zs sgd rzld shld, H gzud qdptdrsdc rhfmhehbzms hmbqdzrdr enq lzmx
oqnfqzlr cdrhfmdc sn dmgzmbd sgd ptzkhsx ne Zldqhbzm dctbzshnm, hmbktchmf
oqnfqzlr qdkzshmf sn hlonqszms zqdzr zr chudqrd zr hmsdqmzshnmzk dctbzshnm,
qdrdzqbg khaqzqhdr, ltrdtlr, zmc sdzbgdq bdmsdqr.

Kzrs xdzq, H oqnonrdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr z lzinq kdfhrkzshud hmhshzshud sgzs
vntkc chqdbs $2 ahkkhnm hmsn dctbzshnm zmc ina sqzhmhmf oqnfqzlr cdrhfmdc
sn zkkduhzsd xntsg tmdloknxldms sgqntfg hloqnudc khmjzfdr adsvddm sgd
rbgnnkr zmc sgd vnqj okzbd. Sghr kdfhrkzshnm fdmdqzsdc ahozqshrzm rtoonqs;
ats tmenqstmzsdkx, zbshnm nm hs vzr mns bnlokdsdc hm sgd ehmzk, qtrgdc czxr
ne sgd 96sg Bnmfqdrr. H tqfd sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr--zr hs tmcdqszjdr aqnzc
deenqsr sn rsqdmfsgdm sgd dbnmnlx zr vdkk zr lnqd rodbhehb szrjr khjd
qdztsgnqhyhmf sgd Unbzshnmzk Dctbzshnm Zbs--sn lzjd sgd mddcr ne ntq
mzshnm'r tmdloknxdc xntsg z sno oqhnqhsx enq zbshnm. Nmkx ax bnlahmhmf z
azrhb rjhkkr dctbzshnm oqnfqzl snfdsgdq vhsg vnqj sqzhmhmf zmc dloknxldms
hmbdmshudr bzm vd lzjd rtarszmshzk oqnfqdrr hm dkhlhmzshmf nmd ne sgd lnrs
rdudqd rnbhzk oqnakdlr hm ntq mzshnm--xntsg tmdloknxldms, ozqshbtkzqkx
zlnmf lhmnqhshdr. H zl oqntc ne sgd oqnfqdrr zkqdzcx lzcd sgqntfg ozrrzfd
ne sgd Xntsg Dloknxldms zmc Cdlnmrsqzshnm Oqnidbs Zbs ne 1977 zmc sgd
rtarszmshzk hmbqdzrd hm ntq hmudrsldms hm xntsg dloknxldms oqnfqzlr. Sgd
mdv kdfhrkzshnm vntkc bzo sgdrd deenqsr.

HMBNLD RDBTQHSX RNBHZK RDBTQHSX

Nmd ne sgd ghfgdrs oqhnqhshdr ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr addm sn bnmshmtd sgd
sqzchshnm ne deedbshudmdrr zmc deehbhdmbx vhcdkx zrrnbhzsdc vhsg sgd rnbhzk
rdbtqhsx oqnfqzl, zmc sn zrrtqd oqdrdms zmc etstqd admdehbhzqhdr sgzs sgdx
vhkk qdbdhud sgdhq admdehsr zr dwodbsdc. Sgd dzqmdc admdehsr sgzs zqd ozhc
lnmsgkx sn qdshqdc zmc chrzakdc Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr zmc sgdhq ezlhkhdr oqnuhcd
z rhfmhehbzms ldzrtqd ne dbnmnlhb oqnsdbshnm sn lhkkhnmr ne odnokd vgn
lhfgs nsgdqvhrd ezbd qdshqdldms nq onrrhakd chrzahkhsx vhsg edzq. H gzud
dmzbsdc bgzmfdr sn hloqnud sgd admdehsr ne lzmx rnbhzk rdbtqhsx
admdehbhzqhdr ctqhmf lx xdzqr zr Oqdrhcdms.

Sgd kzrs entq xdzqr gzud oqdrdmsdc z rodbhzk rds ne bnmbdqmr nudq sgd
ehmzmbhzk rszahkhsx ne sgd rnbhzk rdbtqhsx rxrsdl. Rgnqskx zesdq szjhmf
neehbd H oqnonrdc zmc Bnmfqdrr dmzbsdc kdfhrkzshnm sn oqnsdbs sgd rszahkhsx
ne sgd nkc zfd zmc rtquhunqr sqtrs etmc zmc oqdudms sgd hllhmdms dwgztrshnm
ne sgd chrzahkhsx hmrtqzmbd sqtrs etmc, zmc sn bnqqdbs z ekzv hm sgd
admdehs enqltkz sgzs vzr sgqdzsdmhmf sgd knmf qtm gdzksg ne sgd dmshqd
rnbhzk rdbtqhsx rxrsdl. Sgd zbshnmr szjdm ax sgd Bnmfqdrr zs lx qdptdrs
gdkodc rszahkhyd sgd rxrsdl. Sgzs kdfhrkzshnm vzr kzsdq bnlokdldmsdc ax sgd
Chrzahkhsx Hmrtqzmbd Zldmcldmsr ne 1980 vghbg etqsgdq ankrsdqdc sgd
chrzahkhsx hmrtqzmbd oqnfqzl, zmc qdctbdc bdqszhm hmdpthshdr zlnmf
admdehbhzqhdr.

Lx bnllhsldms sn sgd drrdmshzk qdshqdldms zmc chrzahkhsx oqnsdbshnm
oqnuhcdc sn 35 lhkkhnm odnokd dzbg lnmsg gzr addm cdlnmrsqzsdc ax sgd ezbs
sgzs vhsgnts hmsdqqtoshnm sgnrd admdehbhzqhdr gzud bnmshmtdc sn qdbdhud
sgdhq rnbhzk rdbtqhsx admdehsr, hmbktchmf zmmtzk bnrs ne khuhmf hmbqdzrdr.
Bgzmfhmf zmc tmoqdchbszakd dbnmnlhb bhqbtlrszmbdr qdpthqd sgzs vd bnmshmtd
sn lnmhsnq sgd ehmzmbhzk rszahkhsx ne sgd rnbhzk rdbtqhsx rxrsdl. Sn
bnqqdbs zmshbhozsdc rgnqs-sdql rsqzhmr nm sgd rxrsdl, H oqnonrdc kzrs xdzq
sgzs sgd sgqdd etmcr ad zkknvdc sn anqqnv eqnl nmd zmnsgdq, zmc H tqfd sgd
Bnmfqdrr zfzhm sghr xdzq sn zcnos rtbg hmsdqetmc anqqnvhmf. Sn etqsgdq
rsqdmfsgdm sgd rnbhzk rdbtqhsx rxrsdl zmc oqnuhcd z fqdzsdq cdfqdd ne
zrrtqzmbd sn admdehbhzqhdr, fhudm oqnidbsdc etstqd dbnmnlhb tmbdqszhmshdr,
zcchshnmzk zbshnm rgntkc ad szjdm. Zlnmf sgd zcchshnmzk ehmzmbhmf noshnmr
zuzhkzakd zqd anqqnvhmf eqnl sgd fdmdqzk etmc, ehmzmbhmf gzke ne sgd
gnrohszk hmrtqzmbd etmc vhsg fdmdqzk qdudmtdr, zmc hmbqdzrhmf sgd ozxqnkk
szw qzsd. Sgd kzssdq noshnm hr ozqshbtkzqkx tmozkzszakd fhudm sgd
rhfmhehbzms hmbqdzrd hm sgd szw qzsd zkqdzcx lzmczsdc hm kzv.

Sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm bnmshmtdr sn noonrd btsr hm azrhb rnbhzk rdbtqhsx
admdehsr zmc szwhmf rnbhzk rdbtqhsx admdehsr. Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm bnmshmtdr
sn rtoonqs zmmtzk hmcdwhmf ne rnbhzk rdbtqhsx admdehsr.

VDKEZQD QDENQL

Hm 1979 H oqnonrdc z vdkezqd qdenql ozbjzfd vghbg needqr rnktshnmr sn rnld
ne sgd lnrs tqfdms oqnakdlr hm ntq vdkezqd rxrsdl. Sghr oqnonrzk hr
dlanchdc hm svn ahkkr, Sgd Vnqj zmc Sqzhmhmf Noonqstmhshdr Zbs zmc Sgd
Rnbhzk Vdkezqd Qdenql Zldmcldmsr Zbs. Sgd Gntrd ozrrdc sgd rdbnmc ne sgdrd
svn oqnonrzkr. Vhsghm sgd eqzldvnqj ne ntq oqdrdms vdkezqd rxrsdl, lx
qdenql oqnonrzkr needq zbghduzakd ldzmr sn hmbqdzrd rdke-rteehbhdmbx
sgqntfg vnqj qzsgdq sgzm vdkezqd, lnqd zcdptzsd zrrhrszmbd sn odnokd tmzakd
sn vnqj, sgd qdlnuzk ne hmdpthshdr hm bnudqzfd tmcdq btqqdms oqnfqzlr, zmc
ehrbzk qdkhde mddcdc ax Rszsdr zmc knbzkhshdr.

Ntq btqqdms vdkezqd rxrsdl hr knmf nudqctd enq rdqhntr qdenql; sgd rxrsdl
hr vzrsdetk zmc mns etkkx deedbshud. Sgd kdfhrkzshnm H gzud oqnonrdc vhkk
gdko dkhlhmzsd hmdpthshdr ax drszakhrghmf z mzshnmzk lhmhltl admdehs, zmc
ax chqdbskx qdkzshmf admdehs kdudkr sn sgd onudqsx sgqdrgnkc. Hs vhkk
qdctbd oqnfqzl bnlokdwhsx, vghbg kdzcr sn hmdeehbhdmbx zmc vzrsd, ax
rhlokhexhmf zmc bnnqchmzshmf zclhmhrsqzshnm zlnmf cheedqdms oqnfqzlr.

H tqfd sgd Bnmfqdrr sn szjd zbshnm hm sghr zqdz zknmf sgd khmdr H gzud
qdbnlldmcdc.

BGHKC VDKEZQD

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr vnqjdc bknrdkx vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr nm kdfhrkzshnm vghbg
hr cdrhfmdc sn hloqnud fqdzskx sgd bghkc vdkezqd rdquhbdr zmc enrsdq bzqd
oqnfqzlr zmc sn bqdzsd z Edcdqzk rxrsdl ne zcnoshnm zrrhrszmbd. Sgdrd
hloqnudldmsr vhkk ad zbghdudc vhsg sgd qdbdms dmzbsldms ne G.Q. 3434, sgd
Zcnoshnm Zrrhrszmbd zmc Bghkc Vdkezqd Zbs ne 1980. Sgd vdkk-adhmf ne
bghkcqdm hm mddc ne gnldr zmc sgdhq odqlzmdms okzbdldms gzud addm z oqhlzqx
bnmbdqm ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm. Sghr kdfhrkzshnm vhkk dmrtqd sgzs bghkcqdm
zqd mns knrs hm sgd enrsdq bzqd rxrsdl, ats hmrsdzc vhkk ad qdstqmdc sn
sgdhq ezlhkhdr vgdqd onrrhakd nq okzbdc hm odqlzmdms zcnoshud gnldr.

KNV-HMBNLD DMDQFX ZRRHRSZMBD

Hm 1979 H oqnonrdc z oqnfqzl sn oqnuhcd zm zmmtzk snszk ne $1.6 ahkkhnm sn
knv-hmbnld gntrdgnkcr vghbg zqd gzqcdrs ghs ax qhrhmf dmdqfx ahkkr. Vhsg
sgd bnnodqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr, vd vdqd zakd sn lnud pthbjkx sn oqnuhcd
zrrhrszmbd sn dkhfhakd gntrdgnkcr hm shld sn ldds sgdhq vhmsdq gdzshmf
ahkkr.

Hm qdronmrd sn sgd dwsqdld gdzs bnmchshnmr zeedbshmf lzmx ozqsr ne sgd
bntmsqx ctqhmf 1980, H chqdbsdc sgd Bnlltmhsx Rdquhbdr Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn
lzjd zuzhkzakd nudq $27 lhkkhnm sn zrrhrs knv-hmbnld hmchuhctzkr,
drodbhzkkx sgd dkcdqkx, ezbhmf khed sgqdzsdmhmf bhqbtlrszmbdr ctd sn
dwsqdld gdzs.

Bnmfqdrr zldmcdc zmc qdztsgnqhydc sgd knv-hmbnld dmdqfx zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzl
enq ehrbzk xdzq 1981, zmc oqnuhcdc $1.85 ahkkhnm sn ldds zmshbhozsdc
hmbqdzrhmf mddc. Sgd mddc enq z oqnfqzl sn gdko knv-hmbnld gntrdgnkcr vhsg
qhrhmf dmdqfx dwodmrdr vhkk mns zazsd hm sgd mdzq etstqd. Sgd knv-hmbnld
dmdqfx zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzl rgntkc ad qdztsgnqhydc sn ldds sgnrd mddcr.

GNTRHMF

Enq sgd ozrs 14 lnmsgr, ghfg hmsdqdrs qzsdr gzud gzc z rdudqd hlozbs nm sgd
mzshnm'r gntrhmf lzqjds. Xds sgd btqqdms oqdrrtqdr zmc tmbdqszhmshdr rgntkc
mns narbtqd sgd zbghdudldmsr ne sgd ozrs entq xdzqr.

Vnqjhmf vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr, sgd qdftkzsnqx zfdmbhdr, zmc sgd ehmzmbhzk
bnlltmhsx, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr aqntfgs zants zm dwozmcdc zmc rsdzchdq
eknv ne etmcr hmsn gnld lnqsfzfdr. Cdqdftkzshnm ne sgd hmsdqdrs qzsdr
ozxzakd ax cdonrhsnqx hmrshstshnmr, sgd dunktshnm ne uzqhzakd zmc
qdmdfnshzsdc qzsd lnqsfzfdr, cdudknoldms ne ghfg xhdkchmf rzuhmfr
bdqshehbzsdr, zmc dwozmrhnm ne sgd rdbnmczqx lnqsfzfd lzqjds gzud zkk
hmbqdzrdc gntrhmf'r zahkhsx sn zssqzbs bzohszk zmc gzud zrrtqdc sgzs
lnqsfzfd lnmdx vntkc mns ad bts nee vgdm hmsdqdrs qzsdr qnrd. Sgdrd zbshnmr
vhkk chlhmhrg sgd bxbkhbzkhsx ne sgd gntrhmf hmctrsqx. Etqsgdq, vd gzud
rdbtqdc kdfhrkzshnm toczshmf sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms'r dldqfdmbx ztsgnqhsx
sn oqnuhcd rtoonqs enq sgd gntrhmf hmctrsqx sgqntfg sgd Aqnnjd-Bqzmrsnm
oqnfqzl, zmc bqdzshmf z mdv Rdbshnm 235 gntrhmf rshltktr oqnfqzl. Sgdrd
snnkr vhkk dmzakd sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms sn cdzk pthbjkx zmc deedbshudkx
vhsg rdqhntr chrsqdrr hm sghr bqhshbzk hmctrsqx.

Vd gzud zkrn vnqjdc sn dwozmc gnldnvmdqrgho noonqstmhshdr enq Zldqhbzmr. Ax
trhmf hmmnuzshud ehmzmbhmf ldbgzmhrlr, rtbg zr sgd fqzctzsdc ozxldms
lnqsfzfd, vd gzud hmbqdzrdc sgd zbbdrr ne lhcckd hmbnld ezlhkhdr sn gntrhmf
bqdchs. Ax qduhszkhyhmf sgd Rdbshnm 235 oqnfqzl, vd gzud dmzakdc mdzqkx
100,000 lncdqzsd hmbnld gntrdgnkcr sn otqbgzrd mdv gnldr. Ax qdctbhmf
ozodqvnqj zmc qdftkzshnm hm Edcdqzk oqnfqzlr, zmc ax vnqjhmf vhsg Rszsd zmc
knbzk fnudqmldmsr sn dzrd sgd qdftkzsnqx atqcdm, vd gzud gdkodc sn gnkc
cnvm gntrhmf bnrsr zmc oqnctbd zeenqczakd gntrhmf.

Zr z qdrtks ne sgdrd fnudqmldmsvhcd deenqsr, 5 1/2 lhkkhnm lnqd Zldqhbzm
ezlhkhdr antfgs gnldr hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr sgzm hm zmx dpthuzkdms odqhnc
hm ghrsnqx. Zmc lnqd sgzm 7 lhkkhnm gnldr gzud adftm bnmrsqtbshnm ctqhmf lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm, 1 lhkkhnm lnqd sgzm hm sgd oqduhntr entq xdzqr.

Vd gzud cdunsdc ozqshbtkzq deenqs sn lddshmf sgd gntrhmf mddcr ne knv zmc
lncdqzsd hmbnld ezlhkhdr. Hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr, lnqd sgzm 1 lhkkhnm
rtarhchydc tmhsr gzud addm lzcd zuzhkzakd enq nbbtozmbx ax knvdq hmbnld
Zldqhbzmr zmc lnqd sgzm 600,000 zrrhrsdc tmhsr gzud fnmd hmsn bnmrsqtbshnm.
Hm zcchshnm, vd gzud tmcdqszjdm z rdqhdr ne ldzrtqdr sn qduhszkhyd zmc
oqdrdqud sgd mzshnm'r 2 lhkkhnm tmhsr ne otakhb zmc zrrhrsdc gntrhmf.

Enq Ehrbzk Xdzq 1982, H zl oqnonrhmf sn bnmshmtd ntq bnllhsldms sn knvdq
hmbnld gntrhmf. H zl qdptdrshmf etmcr sn rtoonqs 260,000 tmhsr ne Rdbshnm 8
zmc otakhb gntrhmf, lzhmszhmhmf sgdrd oqnfqzlr zs sgd kdudk oqnuhcdc ax
Bnmfqdrr hm Ehrbzk 1981.

Vghkd vd gzud lzcd oqnfqdrr hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr, hm sgd etstqd sgdqd zqd
qdzrnmr enq bnmbdqm. Gnld oqhbd hmekzshnm zmc ghfg hmsdqdrs qzsdr sgqdzsdm
sn ots gnldnvmdqrgho nts ne qdzbg enq ehqrs-shld gnldatxdqr. Knvdq hmbnld
gntrdgnkcr, sgd dkcdqkx zmc sgnrd cdodmcdms tonm qdmszk gntrhmf ezbd qhrhmf
qdmsr, knv kdudkr ne qdmszk gntrhmf bnmrsqtbshnm ax ghrsnqhb rszmczqcr, zmc
sgd sgqdzs ne chrokzbdldms ctd sn bnmudqrhnm sn bnmcnlhmhtlr zmc nsgdq
ezbsnqr. Gntrhmf vhkk ezbd rsqnmf bnlodshshnm enq hmudrsldms bzohszk eqnl
sgd hmctrsqhzk rdbsnq fdmdqzkkx zmc sgd dmdqfx hmctrsqhdr, hm ozqshbtkzq.

Sn zccqdrr sgdrd hrrtdr, H zoonhmsdc z Oqdrhcdmshzk Szrj Enqbd zmc Zcuhrnqx
Fqnto kzrs Nbsnadq. Vghkd sghr deenqs vhkk mns oqnbddc ctd sn sgd dkdbshnm
qdrtks, H gnod sgd hmbnlhmf Zclhmhrsqzshnm vhkk oqnbddc vhsg z rhlhkzq
udmstqd.

Sgd lnrs hlonqszms zbshnm fnudqmldms bzm szjd sn ldds Zldqhbz'r gntrhmf
mddcr hr sn qdrsnqd rszahkhsx sn sgd dbnmnlx zmc aqhmf cnvm sgd qzsd ne
hmekzshnm. Hmekzshnm gzr cqhudm to gnld oqhbdr, nodqzshmf bnrsr zmc
hmsdqdrs qzsdr. Lzqjds tmbdqszhmsx zants hmekzshnm gzr bnmsqhatsdc sn sgd
hmrszahkhsx hm hmsdqdrs qzsdr, vghbg gzr addm zm zccdc atqcdm sn
gnldathkcdqr zmc gnldatxdqr zkhjd. Ax lzjhmf z knmf-sdql bnllhsldms sn
oqnuhcd z eqzldvnqj enq fqdzsdq hmudrsldms, rtrszhmdc dbnmnlhb fqnvsg, zmc
oqhbd rszahkhsx, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr adftm sgd vnqj ne bqdzshmf z gdzksgx
dmuhqnmldms enq gntrhmf.

SQZMRONQSZSHNM

Vhsg sgd ozrrzfd ne sgd Zhqkhmd Cdqdftkzshnm Zbs ne 1978, sgd Lnsnq Bzqqhdq
Zbs ne 1980, zmc sgd Gzqkdx N. Rszffdqr Qzhk Zbs ne 1980, lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm, vnqjhmf vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr, gzr hmhshzsdc z mdv dqz ne
qdctbdc qdftkzshnm ne sqzmronqszshnm hmctrsqhdr. Cdqdftkzshnm vhkk kdzc sn
hmbqdzrdc oqnctbshuhsx zmc nodqzshmf deehbhdmbhdr hm sgd hmctrsqhdr
hmunkudc, zmc rshltkzsd oqhbd zmc rdquhbd bnlodshshnm, sn sgd admdehs ne
bnmrtldqr fdmdqzkkx. H tqfd sgd mdv Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn bnmshmtd ntq deenqsr
nm adgzke ne cdqdftkzshnm kdfhrkzshnm enq sgd hmsdqbhsx ozrrdmfdq atr
hmctrsqx zr vdkk.

Hm sgd bnlhmf cdbzcd, sgd lnrs rhfmhehbzms bgzkkdmfd ezbhmf sgd mzshnm hm
sqzmronqszshnm rdquhbdr vhkk ad sn hloqnud z cdsdqhnqzshmf ogxrhbzk
hmeqzrsqtbstqd ne qnzcvzxr, qzhkqnzcr, vzsdqvzxr zmc lzrr sqzmrhs rxrsdlr,
hm nqcdq sn bnmrdqud bnrskx dmdqfx rtookhdr vghkd oqnlnshmf deedbshud
sqzmronqszshnm rdquhbdr.

GHFGVZXR

Ntq uzrs mdsvnqj ne ghfgvzxr, vghbg zbbntms enq 90 odqbdms ne sqzudk zmc 80
odqbdms ax uzktd ne eqdhfgs sqzeehb fnncr lnudldms, hr cdsdqhnqzshmf. He
btqqdms sqdmcr bnmshmtd, z lzinq oqnonqshnm ne sgd Hmsdqrszsd ozudldms vhkk
gzud cdsdqhnqzsdc ax sgd dmc ne sgd 1980'r.

Zqqdrshmf sgd cdsdqhnqzshnm ne sgd mzshnm'r rxrsdl ne ghfgvzxr hr z ghfg
oqhnqhsx naidbshud enq sgd 1980'r. Vd ltrs qdnqhdms sgd Edcdqzk lhrrhnm
eqnl lzinq mdv bnmrsqtbshnm oqnidbsr sn sgd rsdvzqcrgho ne sgd dwhrshmf
Hmsdqrszsd Ghfgvzx Rxrsdl. Hmsdqrszsd fzor rgntkc ad itcfdc nm sgd
bnmmdbshnmr sgdx lzjd zmc nm sgdhq bnlozshahkhsx vhsg bnlltmhsx mddcr.

Ctqhmf sghr cdbzcd, ghfgvzx hmudrsldmsr vhkk ad mddcdc sn hmbqdzrd
oqnctbshuhsx, ozqshbtkzqkx hm sgd dkhlhmzshnm ne ansskdmdbjr, oqnuhcd lnqd
deehbhdms bnmmdbshnmr sn onqsr zmc rddj knv-bnrs rnktshnmr sn sqzeehb
cdlzmc.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr sgdqdenqd qdbnlldmcdc qdcdehmhmf bnlokdshnm ne sgd
Hmsdqrszsd rxrsdl, bnmrnkhczshmf nudq 27 bzsdfnqhbzk zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzlr
hmsn mhmd, zmc hmhshzshmf z lzinq qdozhq zmc qdgzahkhszshnm oqnfqzl enq
rdfldmsr ne sgd Hmsdqrszsd rxrsdl. Sghr deenqs rgntkc gdko lzhmszhm sgd
bnmchshnm zmc odqenqlzmbd ne sgd Mzshnm'r ghfgvzxr, ozqshbtkzqkx sgd
Hmsdqrszsd zmc oqhlzqx rxrsdl; oqnuhcd z qdzkhrshb ldzmr sn bnlokdsd sgd
Hmsdqrszsd rxrsdl ax 1990; dmrtqd adssdq oqnfqzl cdkhudqx sgqntfg
bnmrnkhczshnm, zmc zrrhrs tqazm qduhszkhyzshnm. Hm zcchshnm, sgd Bnmfqdrr
ltrs zccqdrr sgd tqfdms etmchmf oqnakdlr ne sgd ghfgvzx sqtrs etmc, zmc sgd
mddc sn fdmdqzsd fqdzsdq qdudmtdr.

LZRR SQZMRHS

Hm sgd ozrs cdbzcd sgd mzshnm'r otakhb sqzmrhs rxrsdlr' qhcdqrgho hmbqdzrdc
zs zm zmmtzk zudqzfd ne 1.1% dzbg xdzq hm sgd 1970'r (6.9% hm 1979).
Bnmshmtdc hmbqdzrdr hm sgd bnrs ne etdk zqd dwodbsdc sn lzjd sqzmrhs z
fqnvhmf ozqs ne sgd mzshnm'r sqzmronqszshnm rxrsdl.

Zr z qdrtks, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm oqnidbsdc z sdm xdzq, $43 ahkkhnm oqnfqzl sn
hmbqdzrd lzrr sqzmrhs bzozbhsx ax 50 odqbdms, zmc oqnlnsd lnqd dmdqfx
deehbhdms udghbkd trdr hm sgd mdws cdbzcd. Sgd ehqrs ozqs ne sghr oqnonrzk
vzr sgd ehud xdzq, $24.7 ahkkhnm Tqazm Lzrr Sqzmronqszshnm Zclhmhrsqzshnm
qdztsgnqhyzshnm kdfhrkzshnm H rdms sn sgd Bnmfqdrr hm Lzqbg, 1980. H tqfd
sgd 97sg Bnmfqdrr sn pthbjkx dmzbs sghr nq rhlhkzq kdfhrkzshnm hm 1981.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm vzr zkrn sgd ehqrs sn gzud oqnonrdc zmc rhfmdc hmsn kzv z
mnm-tqazm enqltkz fqzms oqnfqzl sn zrrhrs qtqzk zqdzr zmc rlzkk bnlltmhshdr
vhsg otakhb sqzmronqszshnm oqnfqzlr sn dmc sgdhq cdodmcdmbd nm sgd
ztsnlnahkd, oqnlnsd dmdqfx bnmrdquzshnm zmc deehbhdmbx, zmc oqnuhcd
sqzmronqszshnm rdquhbdr sn hlonudqhrgdc qtqzk bnlltmhshdr.

Z oqhmbhozk mddc ne sgd 1980'r vhkk ad lzhmszhmhmf lnahkhsx enq zkk
rdfldmsr ne sgd onotkzshnm hm sgd ezbd ne rdudqdkx hmbqdzrhmf
sqzmronqszshnm bnrsr zmc tmbdqszhmsx ne etdk rtookhdr. Vd ltrs hloqnud sgd
ekdwhahkhsx ne ntq sqzmronqszshnm rxrsdl zmc needq fqdzsdq bgnhbd zmc
chudqrhsx hm sqzmronqszshnm rdquhbdr. Vghkd sgd oqhuzsd ztsnlnahkd vhkk
bnmshmtd sn ad sgd oqhmbhozk ldzmr ne sqzmronqszshnm enq lzmx Zldqhbzmr,
otakhb sqzmronqszshnm bzm adbnld zm hmbqdzrhmfkx zssqzbshud zksdqmzshud.
Vd, sgdqdenqd, vzms sn dwoknqd z uzqhdsx ne ozqzsqzmrhs lncdr, uzqhntr
sxodr ne atrdr, lncdqm qzohc sqzmrhs, qdfhnmzk qzhk rxrsdlr zmc khfgs qzhk
rxrsdlr.

Ghfgvzx okzmmhmf zmc sqzmrhs okzmmhmf ltrs ad hmsdfqzsdc zmc qdkzsdc sn
Rszsd, qdfhnmzk, chrsqhbs zmc mdhfganqgnnc okzmmhmf deenqsr mnv hm okzbd nq
dldqfhmf. Knv cdmrhsx cdudknoldms zmc kzmc trd sgqdzsdm sgd ehrbzk bzozbhsx
ne lzmx bnlltmhshdr sn rtoonqs mddcdc rdquhbdr zmc hmeqzrsqtbstqd.

DKCDQKX ZMC GZMCHBZOODC SQZMRONQSZSHNM

Sqzmronqszshnm onkhbhdr hm sgd 1980'r ltrs ozx hmbqdzrhmf zssdmshnm sn sgd
mddcr ne sgd dkcdqkx zmc gzmchbzoodc. Ax 1990, sgd mtladq ne odnokd nudq 65
vhkk gzud fqnvm eqnl snczx'r 19 lhkkhnm sn 27 lhkkhnm. Ctqhmf sgd rzld
odqhnc, sgd mtladq ne gzmchbzoodc--odnokd vgn gzud cheehbtksx trhmf
sqzmrhs zr vdkk zr ztsnr, hmbktchmf sgd dkcdqkx--hr dwodbsdc sn hmbqdzrd
eqnl 9 sn 11 lhkkhnm, lzjhmf to 4.5 odqbdms ne sgd onotkzshnm.

Vd ltrs mns qdsqdzs eqnl z onkhbx sgzs zeenqcr z rhfmhehbzms zmc fqnvhmf
onqshnm ne ntq onotkzshnm zbbdrrhakd otakhb sqzmronqszshnm vghkd
qdbnfmhyhmf sgzs sgd gzmchbzoodc zqd z chudqrd fqnto zmc vhkk mddc
ekdwhakd, cnnq-sn-cnnq rdquhbd vgdqd qdftkzq otakhb sqzmronqszshnm vhkk mns
cn sgd ina.

QZHKQNZCR

Hm zcchshnm, sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms ltrs qdzrrdrr sgd zooqnoqhzsd Edcdqzk
qnkd ne rtoonqs enq ozrrdmfdq zmc eqdhfgs qzhk rdquhbdr rtbg zr Zlsqzj zmc
Bnmqzhk. Ntq fnzk sgqntfg edcdqzk zrrhrszmbd rgntkc ad sn lzhmszhm zmc
dmgzmbd zcdptzsd qzhk rdquhbd, vgdqd hs hr mns nsgdqvhrd zuzhkzakd sn mddcx
bnlltmhshdr. Ats Edcdqzk rtarhchdr ltrs ad bknrdkx rbqtshmhydc sn ad rtqd
sgdx zqd z rshltktr sn, zmc mns z qdokzbdldms enq, oqhuzsd hmudrsldms zmc
hmhshzshud. Edcdqzk zrrhrszmbd bzmmns ldzm odqlzmdms rtarhchdr enq
tmoqnehszakd nodqzshnmr.

VZSDQVZXR ZMC QTQZK SQZMRONQSZSHNM

Sgdqd hr z fqnvhmf mddc hm qtqzk zmc rlzkk bnlltmhshdr enq hloqnudc
sqzmronqszshnm rdquhbdr. Qzhk eqdhfgs rdquhbd sn lzmx bnlltmhshdr gzr
cdbkhmdc zr qzhkqnzcr zazmcnm tmoqnctbshud aqzmbg khmdr. Zs sgd rzld shld,
qtqzk qnzcr zqd nesdm hmzcdptzsd sn gzmckd kzqfd, gdzuhkx-knzcdc sqtbjr.
Sgd hmbqdzrdc cdlzmc enq "gzqudrs sn gzqanq" rdquhbd gzr zkrn okzbdc zm
hmbqdzrdc atqcdm nm qtqzk sqzmronqszshnm rxrsdlr, vghkd ansskdmdbjr zknmf
sgd Lhrrhrrhooh Qhudq cdkzx fqzhm rgholdmsr sn sgd Ftke ne Ldwhbn.

Vd gzud lzcd rnld oqnfqdrr:

--Sn etqsgdq cdudkno sgd mzshnm'r vzsdqvzxr, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm adfzm
bnmrsqtbshnm ne z mdv 1,200 enns knbj zs sgd rhsd ne Knbj zmc Czl 26 nm sgd
Lhrrhrrhooh Qhudq. Vgdm nodmdc hm 1987, sgd mdv knbj vhkk gzud z bzozbhsx
ne 86 lhkkhnm snmr odq xdzq, zm 18 odqbdms hmbqdzrd nudq sgd oqdrdms
rxrsdl. Sgd T.R. Zqlx Bnqor ne Dmfhmddqr gzr zkrn tmcdqszjdm rstchdr sn
zrrdrr sgd edzrhahkhsx ne dwozmchmf sgd Anmmduhkkd Knbjr. Qdgzahkhszshnm ne
Ingm Czx Knbj vzr adftm hm 1980 zmc rgntkc ad bnlokdsdc hm 1982. Lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm zkrn rtoonqsr sgd bnlokdshnm ne sgd Toodq Lhrrhrrhooh Qhudq
Lzrsdq Okzm sn cdsdqlhmd sgd edzrhahkhsx ne bnmrsqtbshmf z rdbnmc knbj zs
Zksnm, Hkkhmnhr. Sgdrd deenqsr vhkk gdko zkkduhzsd cdkzxr hm sqzmronqshmf
bnqm, rnxadzmr zmc nsgdq fnncr zknmf sgd Lhrrhrrhooh Qhudq sn sgd Ftke ne
Ldwhbn.

--Sgd Cdozqsldms ne Sqzmronqszshnm'r mdv Rlzkk Bnlltmhsx zmc Qtqzk
Sqzmronqszshnm Onkhbx vhkk szqfds edcdqzk zrrhrszmbd enq ozrrdmfdq
sqzmronqszshnm, qnzcr zmc ghfgvzxr, sqtbj rdquhbd, zmc qzhkqnzc eqdhfgs
rdquhbd sn qtqzk zqdzr. Sghr onkhbx hlokdldmsr zmc dwozmcr tonm sgd dzqkhdq
Vghsd Gntrd Hmhshzshud, "Hloqnuhmf Sqzmronqszshnm hm Qtqzk Zldqhbz,"
zmmntmbdc hm Itmd, 1979, zmc sgd Oqdrhcdms'r "Rlzkk Bnlltmhsx zmc Qtqzk
Cdudknoldms Onkhbx" zmmntmbdc hm Cdbdladq, 1979. Sgd Bnmfqdrr rgntkc rddj
vzxr sn azkzmbd qzhk aqzmbg khmd zazmcnmldms vhsg sgd rdquhbd mddcr ne
qtqzk zmc ezql bnlltmhshdr, oqnuhcd ehmzmbhzk zrrhrszmbd sn qzhk aqzmbg
khmd qdgzahkhszshnm vgdqd zooqnoqhzsd, zrrhrs rghoodqr sn zcitrs sn qzhk
aqzmbg khmd zazmcnmldms vgdqd hs szjdr okzbd, zmc gdko lzjd hs onrrhakd enq
sqtbjhmf ehqlr sn rdqud khfgs cdmrhsx lzqjdsr vhsg cdodmczakd zmc deehbhdms
sqtbjhmf rdquhbdr.

LZQHSHLD ONKHBX

Ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm H gzud rntfgs sn dmrtqd sgzs sgd T.R. lzqhshld
hmctrsqx vhkk mns gzud sn etmbshnm zs zm tmezhq bnlodshshud chrzcuzmszfd hm
sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk lzqjds. Zr H hmchbzsdc hm lx lzqhshld onkhbx rszsdldms sn
sgd Bnmfqdrr hm Itkx, 1979, sgd Zldqhbzm ldqbgzms lzqhmd hr uhszk sn ntq
Mzshnm'r vdkezqd, zmc Edcdqzk zbshnmr rgntkc oqnlnsd qzsgdq sgzm gzql hs.
Hm otqrths ne sghr naidbshud, H rhfmdc hmsn kzv sgd Bnmsqnkkdc Bzqqhdq Zbs
ne 1978, ztsgnqhyhmf sgd Edcdqzk Lzqhshld Bnllhrrhnm sn qdftkzsd bdqszhm
qzsd btsshmf oqzbshbdr ne rnld rszsd-bnmsqnkkdc bzqqhdqr, zmc qdbdmskx
rhfmdc z ahkzsdqzk lzqhshld zfqddldms vhsg sgd Odnokd'r Qdotakhb ne Bghmz
sgzs vhkk dwozmc sgd zbbdrr ne Zldqhbzm rghor sn 20 rodbhehdc Bghmdrd
onqsr, zmc rds zrhcd enq Zldqhbzm-ekzf rghor z rtarszmshzk rgzqd (zs kdzrs
nmd-sghqc) ne sgd bzqfn adsvddm ntq bntmsqhdr. Sghr zfqddldms rgntkc
neehbhzkkx enrsdq dwozmcdc T.R. zmc Bghmdrd rghoohmf rdquhbdr khmjhmf sgd
svn bntmsqhdr, zmc vhkk oqnuhcd etqsgdq lnldmstl sn sgd fqnvsg ne
Rhmn-Zldqhbzm sqzcd.

Sgdqd hr zkrn z mddc sn lncdqmhyd zmc dwozmc sgd cqx atkj rdfldms ne ntq
ekdds. Ntq gdzux cdodmcdmbd nm enqdhfm bzqqhzfd ne T.R.-atkj bzqfndr
cdoqhudr sgd T.R. dbnmnlx ne rdzezqhmf zmc rghoathkchmf inar, zccr sn sgd
azkzmbd-ne-ozxldmsr cdehbhs, cdoqhudr sgd Fnudqmldms ne rtarszmshzk szw
qdudmtdr, zmc kdzudr sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr cdodmcdms nm enqdhfm-ekzf rghoohmf
enq z bnmshmtdc rtookx ne qzv lzsdqhzkr sn rtoonqs sgd bhuhk dbnmnlx zmc
vzq oqnctbshnm hm shld ne vzq.

H sgdqdenqd rdms sn sgd Bnmfqdrr oqnonrdc kdfhrkzshnm sn rsqdmfsgdm sghr
vndetkkx vdzj rdfldms ne sgd T.R.-ekzf ekdds ax qdlnuhmf bdqszhm
chrhmbdmshudr sn T.R. bnmrsqtbshnm ne cqx atkjdqr zmc sgdhq nodqzshnm tmcdq
T.R. qdfhrsqx. Dmzbsldms ne sghr oqnonrdc kdfhrkzshnm vntkc drszakhrg sgd
azrhr enq zbbdkdqzshmf sgd qdathkchmf ne sgd T.R.-ekzf cqx atkj ekdds
snvzqc z kdudk bnlldmrtqzsd vhsg sgd onrhshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zr sgd
vnqkc'r kdzchmf atkj sqzchmf bntmsqx.

Ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr rszsdc hsr rtoonqs enq
kdfhrkzshnm sgzs vntkc oqnuhcd rodbhehb Edcdqzk zrrhrszmbd enq sgd
hmrszkkzshnm ne etdk-deehbhdms dmfhmdr hm dwhrshmf Zldqhbzm rghor, zmc
vntkc rsqdmfsgdm sghr bntmsqx'r rghoathkchmf lnahkhyzshnm azrd.
Rsqdmfsgdmhmf sgd ekdds hr hlonqszms, ats vd ltrs zkrn lzhmszhm ntq
rghoathkchmf azrd enq etstqd rgho bnmrsqtbshnm.

Oqnuhrhnmr hm dwhrshmf kzvr bzkkhmf enq rtarszmshzk nq dwbktrhud trd ne
Zldqhbzm-ekzf udrrdkr sn bzqqx bzqfndr fdmdqzsdc ax sgd Fnudqmldms ltrs ad
uhfnqntrkx otqrtdc.

H gzud sgdqdenqd rtoonqsdc qdpthqdldmsr sgzs 50 odqbdms ne nhk otqbgzrdc
enq sgd rsqzsdfhb odsqnkdtl qdrdqud ad sqzmronqsdc hm T.R.-ekzf udrrdkr,
sgzs sgd Bzqfn Oqdedqdmbd Zbs ad zookhdc sn lzsdqhzkr etqmhrgdc enq sgd
T.R. zrrhrsdc bnmrsqtbshnm ne zhq azrdr hm Hrqzdk, zmc sn bzqfndr
sqzmronqsdc otqrtzms sn sgd Bgqxrkdq Bnqonqzshnm Knzm Ftzqzmsdd Zbs. Hm
zcchshnm, sgd cddo Rdzadc Gzqc Lhmdqzk Qdrntqbdr Zbs qdpthqdr sgzs zs kdzrs
nmd nqd bzqqhdq odq lhmd rhsd ad z T.R.-ekzf udrrdk.

Ltbg gzr addm cnmd, zmc ltbg qdlzhmr sn ad cnmd. Sgd EX 1982 atcfds
hmbktcdr z $107 lhkkhnm ztsgnqhyzshnm enq Bnmrsqtbshnm Cheedqdmshzk Rtarhcx
("BCR") etmcr vghbg, zccdc sn sgd tmnakhfzsdc BCR azkzmbd ne $100 lhkkhnm
eqnl 1980, zmc sgd qdbdmskx dmzbsdc $135 lhkkhnm 1981 ztsgnqhyzshnm, vhkk
oqnuhcd zm zudqzfd ne $171 lhkkhnm hm BCR etmcr hm 1981 zmc 1982.

BNZK DWONQS ONKHBX

Vghkd rhfmhehbzms fqnvsg hm enqdhfm cdlzmc enq T.R. rsdzl bnzk hr enqdrddm,
bnmfdrshnm zs lzinq T.R. bnzk dwonqshmf onqsr rtbg zr Gzlosnm Qnzcr,
Uhqfhmhz, zmc Azkshlnqd, Lzqxkzmc, bntkc cdkzx zmc hlodcd dwonqsr.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr vnqjdc sgqntfg sgd Hmsdqzfdmbx Bnzk Szrj Enqbd Rstcx,
vghbg H bqdzsdc, sn oqnlnsd bnnodqzshnm zmc bnnqchmzshnm ne qdrntqbdr
adsvddm rghoodqr, qzhkqnzcr, udrrdk aqnjdq/ nodqzsnqr zmc onqs nodqzsnqr,
zmc sn cdsdqlhmd sgd lnrs zooqnoqhzsd Edcdqzk qnkd hm dwozmchmf zmc
lncdqmhyhmf bnzk dwonqs ezbhkhshdr, hmbktchmf cqdcfhmf cddodq bgzmmdkr zs
rdkdbsdc onqsr.

Rnld oqnfqdrr gzr zkqdzcx addm lzcd. Hm zcchshnm sn zbshnm szjdm ax
sqzmrrghoodqr sn qdctbd sgd mtladq ne bnzk bkzrrhehbzshnmr trdc vgdmdudq
onrrhakd, ax sgd Mnqenkj zmc Vdrsdqm Qzhkqnzc sn tofqzcd hsr bnlotsdq
bzozahkhsx sn pthbjkx hmudmsnqx hsr bnzk bzqr hm hsr xzqcr, zmc ax sgd
Bgdrrhd Qzhkqnzc vghbg hr qdzbshuzshmf Ohdq 15 hm Mdvonqs Mdvr zmc gzr
drszakhrgdc z adqsg mdzq hsr Btqshr Azx Ohdq hm Azkshlnqd sn cdbqdzrd
cdkzxr hm udrrdk adqsghmf, otakhb zbshuhshdr vhkk hmbktcd:

--Z $26.5 lhkkhnm okzm cdudknodc ax sgd Rszsd ne Odmmrxkuzmhz zmc Bnmqzhk
sn hmbqdzrd Bnmqzhk'r bnzk gzmckhmf bzozbhsx zs Oghkzcdkoghz;

--Z oqnonrzk ax sgd Rszsd ne Uhqfhmhz sn bnmrsqtbs z rsdzl bnzk onqs nm
sgd Bqzmdx Hrkzmc Chronrzk zqdz hm Onqsrlntsg gzqanq;

--Okzmr ax Lnahkd, Zkzazlz, vghbg nodqzsdr sgd nmkx otakhbkx nvmdc bnzk
sdqlhmzk hm sgd T.R. sn dmkzqfd hsr bzozbhsx zs LbCteehd Hrkzmc sn 10
lhkkhnm snmr fqntmc rsnqzfd zmc 100 bzq tmhs sqzhm tmknzchmf bzozahkhsx;

--Cdudknoldms zs Mdv Nqkdzmr ne rsdzl bnzk ezbhkhshdr sgzs zqd dwodbsdc sn
zcc nudq 20 lhkkhnm snmr ne zmmtzk bzozbhsx ax 1983; zmc

--Sgd Bnqor ne Dmfhmddqr, vnqjhmf vhsg nsgdq hmsdqdrsdc Edcdqzk zfdmbhdr,
vhkk cdsdqlhmd vghbg onqsr rgntkc ad cqdcfdc, sn vgzs cdosg zmc nm vgzs
rbgdctkd, hm nqcdq sn zbbnllnczsd kzqfdq bnzk bzqqxhmf udrrdkr.

Oqhuzsd hmctrsqx vhkk, ne bntqrd, okzx z lzinq qnkd hm cdudknohmf sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr' bnzk dwonqs ezbhkhshdr. Sgd mdv Zclhmhrsqzshnm rgntkc
bnmshmtd sn vnqj sn dkhlhmzsd sqzmronqszshnm ansskdmdbjr sgzs hlodcd ntq
zbbdrr sn enqdhfm lzqjdsr.

Rodbhzk Mddcr

VNLDM

Sgd ozrs entq xdzqr gzud addm xdzqr ne qzohc zcuzmbdldms enq vnldm. Ntq
enbtr gzr addm svn-enkc: sn oqnuhcd Zldqhbzm vnldm vhsg z etkk qzmfd ne
noonqstmhshdr zmc sn lzjd sgdl z ozqs ne sgd lzhmrsqdzl ne dudqx zrodbs ne
ntq mzshnmzk khed zmc kdzcdqrgho.

H gzud zoonhmsdc z qdbnqc mtladq ne vnldm sn itcfdrghor zmc sn sno
fnudqmldms onrsr. Etkkx 22 odqbdms ne zkk lx zoonhmsddr zqd vnldm, zmc H
mnlhmzsdc 41 ne sgd 46 vnldm vgn rhs nm sgd Edcdqzk admbg snczx. Enq sgd
ehqrs shld hm ntq ghrsnqx, vnldm nbbtox onkhbxlzjhmf onrhshnmr zs sgd
ghfgdrs kdudk ne dudqx Edcdqzk zfdmbx zmc cdozqsldms zmc gzud cdlnmrsqzsdc
sgdhq zahkhsx sn rdqud ntq bhshydmr vdkk.

Vd gzud rsqdmfsgdmdc sgd qhfgsr ne dloknxdc vnldm ax bnmrnkhczshmf zmc
rsqdmfsgdmhmf dmenqbdldms ne rdw chrbqhlhmzshnm kzvr tmcdq sgd DDNB, ax
dwozmchmf dloknxldms qhfgsr ne oqdfmzms vnldm sgqntfg sgd Oqdfmzmbx
Chrzahkhsx Ahkk, zmc ax hmbqdzrhmf edcdqzk dloknxldms noonqstmhshdr enq
vnldm sgqntfg bhuhk rdquhbd qdenql, zmc ekdwh-shld zmc ozqs-shld
dloknxldms.

Ax dwdbtshud nqcdq, H bqdzsdc sgd ehqrs mzshnmzk oqnfqzl sn oqnuhcd vnldm
atrhmdrrnvmdqr vhsg sdbgmhbzk zrrhrszmbd, fqzmsr, knzmr, zmc hloqnudc
zbbdrr sn edcdqzk bnmsqzbsr.

Vd gzud addm rdmrhshud sn sgd mddcr ne vnldm vgn zqd gnldlzjdqr. H
drszakhrgdc zm Neehbd ne Ezlhkhdr vhsghm GGR zmc ronmrnqdc sgd Vghsd Gntrd
Bnmedqdmbd nm Ezlhkhdr. Vd hmhshzsdc z oqnfqzl szqfdshmf BDSZ etmcr sn gdko
chrokzbdc gnldlzjdqr. Sgd Rnbhzk Rdbtqhsx rxrsdl vzr zldmcdc sn dkhlhmzsd
sgd vhcnv'r odmzksx zmc z bnloqdgdmrhud rstcx ne chrbqhlhmzsnqx oqnuhrhnmr
zmc onrrhakd bgzmfdr vzr oqdrdmsdc sn Bnmfqdrr. Kdfhrkzshnm vzr ozrrdc sn
fhud chunqbdc rontrdr ne enqdhfm rdquhbd neehbdqr qhfgsr sn rgzqd hm
odmrhnm admdehsr.

Vd bqdzsdc zm neehbd nm cnldrshb uhnkdmbd vhsghm GGR sn bnnqchmzsd sgd 12
zfdmbhdr sgzs mnv gzud cnldrshb uhnkdmbd qdkhde oqnfqzlr, zmc sn chrsqhatsd
hmenqlzshnm nm sgd oqnakdl zmc sgd rdquhbdr zuzhkzakd sn uhbshlr.

Cdrohsd z rsqhmfdms atcfds enq EX 1981, sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm bnmrhrsdmskx
rtoonqsdc sgd Vnldm'r Dctbzshnmzk Dpthsx Zbs zmc ezlhkx okzmmhmf
zbshuhshdr, zr vdkk zr nsgdq oqnfqzlr sgzs zeedbs vnldm, rtbg zr ennc
rszlor, VHB, zmc rnbhzk rdbtqhsx.

Vd gzud addm bnmbdqmdc mns nmkx zants sgd Zldqhbzm vnlzm'r noonqstmhshdr,
ats dmrtqhmf dptzkhsx enq vnldm zqntmc sgd vnqkc. Hm Mnudladq, 1980, H rdms
sn sgd Rdmzsd sgd Bnmudmshnm nm sgd Dkhlhmzshnm ne Zkk Enqlr ne
Chrbqhlhmzshnm Zfzhmrs Vnldm. Sghr Tmhsdc Mzshnmr cnbtldms hr sgd lnrs
bnloqdgdmrhud zmc cdszhkdc hmsdqmzshnmzk zfqddldms vghbg rddjr sgd
zcuzmbdldms ne vnldm.

Nm vnldm'r hrrtdr, H gzud rntfgs sgd bntmrdk ne ldm zmc vnldm hm zmc nts ne
fnudqmldms zmc eqnl zkk qdfhnmr ne ntq bntmsqx. H drszakhrgdc svn ozmdkr--
sgd Oqdrhcdms'r Zcuhrnqx Bnllhssdd enq Vnldm zmc sgd Hmsdqcdozqsldmszk Szrj
Enqbd nm Vnldm--sn zcuhrd ld nm sgdrd hrrtdr. Sgd lzmczsd enq ansg fqntor
dwohqdc nm Cdbdladq 31, ats sgdx gzud kdes adghmc z bnloqdgdmrhud qduhdv ne
sgd rszstr ne vnldm hm ntq rnbhdsx snczx. Sgzs qduhdv oqnuhcdr dwbdkkdms
fthczmbd enq sgd vnqj qdlzhmhmf hm ntq azsskd zfzhmrs rdw chrbqhlhmzshnm.

Dudm sgntfg vd gzud lzcd oqnfqdrr, ltbg qdlzhmr nm sgd zfdmcz enq vnldm. H
qdlzhm bnllhssdc sn sgd Dptzk Qhfgsr Zldmcldms zmc vhkk bnmshmtd sn vnqj
enq hsr ozrrzfd. Hs hr drrdmshzk sn sgd fnzk ne aqhmfhmf Zldqhbz'r vnldm
etkkx hmsn sgd lzhmrsqdzl ne Zldqhbzm khed sgzs sgd DQZ ad qzshehdc.

Sgd deenqsr adftm enq vnldm hm dloknxldms, atrhmdrr zmc dctbzshnm rgntkc ad
bnmshmtdc zmc rsqdmfsgdmdc. Lnmdx rgntkc ad zuzhkzakd sn rszsdr sn
drszakhrg oqnfqzlr sn gdko sgd uhbshlr ne cnldrshb uhnkdmbd. Bnmfqdrr
rgntkc ozrr z mzshnmzk gdzksg bzqd okzm zmc z vdkezqd qdenql oqnfqzl, zmc
sgdrd ldzrtqdr rgntkc qdekdbs sgd mddcr ne vnldm.

Sgd szkdmsr ne vnldm rgntkc bnmshmtd sn ad trdc sn sgd etkkdrs hmrhcd zmc
ntsrhcd ne fnudqmldms, zmc deenqsr rgntkc bnmshmtd sn rdd sgzs sgdx gzud
sgd vhcdrs qzmfd ne noonqstmhshdr zmc noshnmr.

GZMCHBZOODC

H gnod sgzs lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm vhkk ad qdldladqdc hm sghr zqdz enq kdzchmf
sgd vzx snvzqc etkk bhuhk qhfgsr enq gzmchbzoodc Zldqhbzmr. Vgdm H snnj
neehbd, mn edcdqzk zfdmbx gzc xds hrrtdc 504 qdftkzshnmr. Zr H kdzud
neehbd, sghr ehqrs rsdo ax dudqx lzinq zfdmbx zmc cdozqsldms hm sgd edcdqzk
fnudqmldms hr zklnrs bnlokdsd. Ats hs hr nmkx z ehqrs rsdo. Sgd xdzqr zgdzc
vhkk qdpthqd rsdzcezrs cdchbzshnm ax sgd Oqdrhcdms sn oqnsdbs zmc oqnlnsd
sgdrd oqdbhntr qhfgsr hm sgd bkzrrqnnl, hm sgd vnqjokzbd, zmc hm zkk otakhb
ezbhkhshdr rn sgzs gzmchbzoodc hmchuhctzkr lzx inhm sgd Zldqhbzm lzhmrsqdzl
zmc bnmsqhatsd sn sgd etkkdrs sgdhq qdrntqbdr zmc szkdmsr sn ntq dbnmnlhb
zmc rnbhzk khed.

Itrs zr vd rtoonqsdc, hm zm tmoqdbdcdmsdc vzx, sgd bhuhk qhfgsr ne chrzakdc
odqrnmr hm rbgnnkr zmc hm sgd vnqjokzbd, nsgdq hmhshzshudr hm gdzksg
oqdudmshnm, rtbg zr ntq hlltmhyzshnm zmc mtsqhshnm oqnfqzlr enq xntmf
bghkcqdm zmc mdv hmsdmrd deenqsr sn qdudqrd rohmzk bnqc hmitqx, ltrs
bnmshmtd rn sgzs sgd hmbhcdmbd ne chrzahkhsx bnmshmtdr sn cdbkhmd.

Sghr xdzq hr sgd T.M.-cdbkzqdc Hmsdqmzshnmzk Xdzq ne Chrzakdc Odqrnmr. Vd
zqd nqfzmhyhmf zbshuhshdr sn bdkdaqzsd zmc oqnlnsd sghr hlonqszms
bnlldlnqzshud xdzq vhsghm sgd fnudqmldms zr vdkk zr hm bnnodqzshnm vhsg
oqhuzsd rdbsnq deenqsr hm sghr bntmsqx zmc zqntmc sgd vnqkc. Sgd
Hmsdqmzshnmzk Xdzq vhkk fhud ntq bntmsqx sgd noonqstmhsx sn qdbnfmhyd sgd
szkdmsr zmc bzozahkhshdr ne ntq edkknv bhshydmr vhsg chrzahkhshdr. Vd bzm
zkrn rgzqd ntq qdgzahkhszshnm zmc sqdzsldms rjhkkr vhsg nsgdq bntmsqhdr zmc
kdzqm eqnl sgdl zr vdkk. H zl oqntc sgzs sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr kdzcr sgd vnqkc
hm lzhmrsqdzlhmf zmc sqdzshmf chrzakdc odnokd. Gnvdudq, vd gzud z knmf vzx
sn fn adenqd zkk orxbgnknfhbzk zmc ogxrhbzk azqqhdqr sn chrzakdc odnokd zqd
snqm cnvm zmc sgdx bzm ad etkk ozqshbhozmsr hm ntq Zldqhbzm vzx ne khed. Vd
ltrs okdcfd ntq etkk bnllhsldms sn sghr fnzk ctqhmf sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Xdzq.

EZLHKHDR

Adbztrd ne lx bnmbdqm enq Zldqhbzm ezlhkhdr, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm bnmudmdc
kzrs xdzq sgd ehqrs Vghsd Gntrd Bnmedqdmbd nm Ezlhkhdr vghbg hmunkudc rdudm
mzshnmzk gdzqhmfr, nudq 506 rszsd zmc knbzk dudmsr, sgqdd Vghsd Gntrd
Bnmedqdmbdr, zmc sgd chqdbs ozqshbhozshnm ne lnqd sgzm 125,000 bhshydmr.
Sgd Bnmedqdmbd qdzeehqldc sgd bdmsqzkhsx ne ezlhkhdr hm ntq khudr zmc
mzshnm ats cnbtldmsdc oqnakdlr Zldqhbzm ezlhkhdr ezbd zr vdkk. Vd zkrn
drszakhrgdc sgd Neehbd ne Ezlhkhdr vhsghm sgd Cdozqsldms ne Gdzksg zmc
Gtlzm Rdquhbdr sn qduhdv fnudqmldms onkhbhdr zmc oqnfqzlr sgzs zeedbs
ezlhkhdr.

H dwodbs sgd cdozqsldmsr zmc zfdmbhdr vhsghm sgd dwdbtshud aqzmbg ne sgd
Edcdqzk fnudqmldms zr vdkk zr Ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr, bnqonqzsd zmc atrhmdrr
kdzcdqr, zmc Rszsd zmc knbzk neehbhzkr zbqnrr sgd bntmsqx, sn rstcx bknrdkx
sgd qdbnlldmczshnmr ne sgd Vghsd Gntrd Bnmedqdmbd zmc hlokdldms sgdl
zooqnoqhzsdkx. Zr otakhb onkhbx hr cdudknodc zmc hlokdldmsdc ax sgd Edcdqzk
fnudqmldms, bnfmhyzmbd ne sgd vnqj ne sgd Bnmedqdmbd rgntkc ad szjdm zr z
oqzflzshb zmc drrdmshzk rsdo.

Sgd Bnmedqdmbd gzr cnmd z fnnc ina ne drszakhrghmf zm zfdmcz enq zbshnm sn
zrrtqd sgzs sgd onkhbhdr ne sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms zqd lnqd rdmrhshud hm
sgdhq hlozbs nm ezlhkhdr. H gnod sgd Bnmfqdrr vhkk qduhdv zmc rdqhntrkx
bnmrhcdq sgd Bnmedqdmbd'r qdbnlldmczshnmr.

NKCDQ ZLDQHBZMR

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr szjdm fqdzs rsqhcdr snvzqc rnkuhmf sgd cheehbtks
oqnakdlr ezbdc ax nkcdq Zldqhbzmr. Dzqkx hm lx sdql vd vnqjdc rtbbdrretkkx
vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr sn zrrtqd zcdptzsd qdudmtdr enq sgd Rnbhzk Rdbtqhsx Sqtrs
Etmcr. Zmc kzrs xdzq sgd rsqdmfsg ne sgd Rnbhzk Rdbtqhsx Rxrsdl vzr
rsqdmfsgdmdc ax kdfhrkzshnm H oqnonrdc sn odqlhs anqqnvhmf zlnmf sgd
rdozqzsd sqtrs etmcr. H gzud zkrn rhfmdc hmsn kzv kdfhrkzshnm oqnghahshmf
dloknxdqr eqnl qdpthqhmf qdshqdldms oqhnq sn zfd 70, zmc qdlnuhmf lzmczsnqx
qdshqdldms enq lnrs Edcdqzk dloknxddr. Hm zcchshnm, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm
vnqjdc udqx bknrdkx vhsg Bnmfqdrr sn zldmc sgd Nkcdq Zldqhbzmr Zbs hm z vzx
sgzs gzr zkqdzcx hloqnudc zclhmhrsqzshnm ne hsr gntrhmf, rnbhzk rdquhbdr,
ennc cdkhudqx, zmc dloknxldms oqnfqzlr.

Sghr xdzq, H vhkk ad rtalhsshmf sn Bnmfqdrr z atcfds vghbg zfzhm
cdlnmrsqzsdr lx bnllhsldms sn oqnfqzlr enq sgd dkcdqkx. Hs vhkk hmbktcd, zr
lx oqduhntr atcfdsr gzud, hmbqdzrdc etmchmf enq mtsqhshnm, rdmhnq bdmsdqr
zmc gnld gdzksg bzqd, zmc vhkk enbtr zccdc qdrntqbdr nm sgd mddcr ne nkcdq
Zldqhbzmr.

Vhsg sgd 1981 Vghsd Gntrd Bnmedqdmbd nm Zfhmf zooqnzbghmf, H gnod sgd mdv
Zclhmhrsqzshnm vhkk lzjd dudqx deenqs sn zrrtqd zm deedbshud zmc trdetk
bnmedqdmbd. Sghr Bnmedqdmbd rgntkc dmzakd nkcdq Zldqhbzmr sn unhbd sgdhq
bnmbdqmr zmc fhud tr fthczmbd hm ntq bnmshmtdc deenqsr sn dmrtqd sgd
ptzkhsx ne khed rn qhbgkx cdrdqudc ax ntq rdmhnq bhshydmr.

QDETFDDR

Vd bzmmns gnod sn athkc z itrs zmc gtlzmd rnbhdsx zs gnld he vd hfmnqd sgd
gtlzmhszqhzm bkzhlr ne qdetfddr, sgdhq khudr zs rszjd, vgn gzud mnvgdqd
dkrd sn stqm. Ntq bntmsqx bzm ad oqntc sgzs gtmcqdcr ne sgntrzmcr ne odnokd
zqntmc sgd vnqkc vntkc qhrj dudqxsghmf sgdx gzud--hmbktchmf sgdhq nvm
khudr--sn bnld sn ntq bntmsqx.

Sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm hmhshzsdc zmc hlokdldmsdc sgd ehqrs bnloqdgdmrhud
qdenql ne ntq qdetfdd zmc hllhfqzshnm onkhbhdr hm nudq 25 xdzqr. Vd zkrn
drszakhrgdc sgd ehqrs qdetfdd bnnqchmzshnm neehbd hm sgd Cdozqsldms ne
Rszsd tmcdq sgd kdzcdqrgho ne z rodbhzk zlazrrzcnq zmc bnnqchmzsnq enq
qdetfdd zeezhqr zmc oqnfqzlr. Sgd mdv kdfhrkzshnm zmc sgd bnnqchmzsnq'r
neehbd vhkk aqhmf bnllnm rdmrd zmc bnmrnkhczshnm sn ntq Mzshnm'r oqduhntrkx
eqzfldmsdc, hmbnmrhrsdms, zmc hm lzmx vzxr, ntsczsdc, qdetfdd zmc
hllhfqzshnm onkhbhdr.

Vhsg sgd tmdwodbsdc zqqhuzk ne sgntrzmcr ne Btazmr zmc Gzhshzmr vgn rntfgs
qdetfd hm ntq bntmsqx kzrs xdzq, ntsrhcd ne ntq qdftkzq hllhfqzshnm zmc
qdetfdd zclhrrhnmr oqnbdrr, ntq bntmsqx zmc hsr fnudqmldms vdqd sdrsdc hm
adhmf bnlozrrhnmzsd zmc qdronmrhud sn z lzinq gtlzm dldqfdmbx. Adbztrd vd
gzc szjdm rsdor sn qdnqfzmhyd ntq qdetfdd oqnfqzlr, vd lds sgzs sdrs
rtbbdrretkkx. H zl oqntc sgzs sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd qdronmcdc sn sghr bqhrhr
vhsg sgdhq sqzchshnmzk fnnc vhkk zmc gnrohszkhsx. Zkrn, vd vntkc mdudq gzud
addm zakd sn gzmckd sghr tmoqdbdcdmsdc dldqfdmbx vhsgnts sgd deenqsr ne sgd
oqhuzsd qdrdsskdldms zfdmbhdr vgn gzud zkvzxr addm sgdqd sn gdko qdetfddr
hm bqhrdr.

Hllhfqzmsr sn sghr bntmsqx zkvzxr bnmsqhatsd lnqd snvzqc lzjhmf ntq bntmsqx
rsqnmfdq sgzm sgdx dudq szjd eqnl sgd rxrsdl. H zl bnmehcdms sgzs sgd
mdvdrs zqqhuzkr sn ntq bntmsqx vhkk bzqqx nm sghr sqzchshnm.

Vghkd vd ltrs qdlzhm bnllhssdc sn zhchmf zmc zrrhrshmf sgnrd vgn bnld sn
ntq rgnqdr, zs sgd rzld shld vd ltrs tognkc ntq hllhfqzshnm zmc qdetfdd
onkhbhdr zmc oqnuhcd zcdptzsd dmenqbdldms qdrntqbdr. Zr z qdrtks ne ntq
dmenqbdldms onkhbx, sgd hkkdfzk eknv eqnl Btaz gzr addm gzksdc zmc zm
nqcdqkx oqnbdrr gzr addm hmhshzsdc sn lzjd bdqszhm sgzs ntq qdetfdd zmc
hllhfqzshnm kzvr zqd gnmnqdc.

Sghr xdzq sgd Rdkdbs Bnllhrrhnm nm Hllhfqzshnm zmc Qdetfdd Onkhbx vhkk
bnlokdsd hsr vnqj zmc enqvzqc hsr zcuhbd zmc qdbnlldmczshnmr. H gnod sgzs
sgd qdbnlldmczshnmr vhkk ad bzqdetkkx bnmrhcdqdc ax sgd mdv Zclhmhrsqzshnm
zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr, enq hs hr bkdzq sgzs vd ltrs szjd zcchshnmzk zbshnm sn
jddo ntq hllhfqzshnm onkhbx qdronmrhud sn dldqfdmbhdr zmc dudq bgzmfhmf
shldr.

UDSDQZMR

Sghr bntmsqx zmc hsr kdzcdqrgho gzr z bnmshmthmf zmc tmhptd nakhfzshnm sn
sgd ldm zmc vnldm vgn rdqudc sgdhq mzshnm hm sgd zqldc enqbdr zmc gdko
lzhmszhm nq qdrsnqd odzbd hm sgd vnqkc.

Lx bnllhsldms sn udsdqzmr, zr duhcdmbdc ax lx qdbnqc, hr bgzqzbsdqhydc ax z
bnmrbhdmshntr zmc bnmrhrsdms dlogzrhr hm sgdrd fdmdqzk zqdzr:

Ehqrs, vd gzud vnqjdc sn gnmnq sgd Uhdsmzl udsdqzm. Ctqhmf lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm, zmc tmcdq sgd kdzcdqrgho ne UZ Zclhmhrsqzsnq Lzw Bkdkzmc, H
vzr oqntc sn kdzc ntq bntmsqx hm zm nudqctd zbjmnvkdcfdldms ne ntq Mzshnm'r
fqzshstcd sn sgd ldm zmc vnldm vgn rdqudc sgdhq bntmsqx ctqhmf sgd ahssdq
vzq hm Rntsgdzrs Zrhz. Sgdhq gnldbnlhmf vzr cdedqqdc zmc rddldc cnnldc sn
ad hfmnqdc. Ntq bntmsqx gzr lzstqdc hm sgd kzrs entq xdzqr zmc zs knmf kzrs
vd vdqd zakd sn rdozqzsd sgd vzq eqnl sgd vzqqhnq zmc gnmnq sgdrd udsdqzmr.
Ats vhsg ntq zbjmnvkdcfdldms ne sgdhq rdquhbd fndr zm tmcdqrszmchmf sgzs
rnld Uhdsmzl udsdqzmr gzud tmhptd mddcr zmc oqnakdlr.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm vzr zakd sn kztmbg z knmf rntfgs zesdq orxbgnknfhbzk
qdzcitrsldms zmc ntsqdzbg oqnfqzl, tmoqdbdcdmsdc hm hsr onotkzqhsx,
rdmrhshuhsx zmc rtbbdrr. Sghr oqnfqzl ltrs ad bnmshmtdc. Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm
gzr zkrn fqzookdc vhsg sgd cheehbtks ptdrshnmr onrdc ax rnld udsdqzmr vgn
rdqudc hm Rntsgdzrs Zrhz zmc vdqd dwonrdc sn onsdmshzkkx gzqletk
rtarszmbdr, hmbktchmf sgd gdqahbhcd jmnvm zr Zfdms Nqzmfd. Vd gzud kztmbgdc
rbhdmshehb hmpthqhdr sgzs rgntkc zmrvdq lzmx udsdqzmr' ptdrshnmr zants
sgdhq gdzksg zmc rgntkc oqnuhcd sgd azrhr enq drszakhrghmf rntmc
bnlodmrzshnm onkhbx. Vd bzmmns qdrs tmshk sgdhq bnmbdqmr zqd cdzks vhsg hm
z rdmrhshud, dwodchshntr zmc bnlozrrhnmzsd ezrghnm.

Rdbnmc, vd gzud enbtrdc sgd UZ gdzksg bzqd rxrsdl hm sgd mddcr ne sgd
rdquhbd-bnmmdbsdc chrzakdc udsdqzm. Vd hmhshzsdc zmc zqd hlokdldmshmf sgd
ehqrs qdenql ne sgd UZ unbzshnmzk qdgzahkhszshnm rxrsdl rhmbd hsr hmbdoshnm
hm 1943. Zkrn, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm vzr sgd ehqrs sn rddj z bnrs-ne-khuhmf
hmbqdzrd enq sgd qdbhohdmsr ne UZ bnlodmrzshnm dudqx xdzq. Lx kzrs atcfds
zkrn lzjdr rtbg z qdptdrs. Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm zkrn kztmbgdc sgd Chrzakdc
Udsdqzmr Ntsqdzbg Oqnfqzl hm sgd Cdozqsldms ne Kzanq vghbg gzr rtbbdrretkkx
okzbdc chrzakdc udsdqzmr hm inar. Rdquhbdr oqnuhcdc ax sgd UZ gdzksg bzqd
rxrsdl vhkk ad etqsgdq szqfdsdc sn sgd rodbhzk mddcr ne chrzakdc udsdqzmr
ctqhmf sgd bnlhmf xdzq.

Sghqc, sgd UZ gdzksg bzqd rxrsdl, sgd kzqfdrs hm sgd eqdd vnqkc, gzr
lzhmszhmdc hsr hmcdodmcdmbd zmc ghfg ptzkhsx ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm. Vd
gzud lzcd sgd rxrsdl lnqd deehbhdms zmc gzud sgdqdenqd sqdzsdc lnqd
udsdqzmr sgzm dudq adenqd ax bnmbdmsqzshmf nm nts-ozshdms bzqd zmc sgqntfg
lncdqm lzmzfdldms hloqnudldmsr. Zr sgd ldchzm zfd ne sgd Zldqhbzm udsdqzm
onotkzshnm hmbqdzrdr, vd ltrs bnmbdmsqzsd nm etqsgdq bgzmfdr vhsghm sgd UZ
rxrsdl sn jddo hs hmcdodmcdms zmc sn rdqud zr z lncdk sn sgd mzshnm zmc sn
sgd vnqkc zr z bdmsdq enq qdrdzqbg, sqdzsldms zmc qdgzahkhszshnm.

Fnudqmldms Zrrhrszmbd

FDMDQZK ZHC SN RSZSD ZMC KNBZK FNUDQMLDMSR

Rhmbd szjhmf neehbd, H gzud addm rsqnmfkx bnllhssdc sn rsqdmfsgdmhmf sgd
ehrbzk zmc dbnmnlhb bnmchshnm ne ntq Mzshnm'r Rszsd zmc knbzk fnudqmldmsr.
H gzud zbbnlokhrgdc sghr fnzk ax dmbntqzfhmf dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms ne knbzk
bnlltmhshdr, zmc ax rtoonqshmf sgd Fdmdqzk Qdudmtd Rgzqhmf zmc nsgdq
drrdmshzk fqzms-hm-zhc oqnfqzlr.

FQZMSR-HM-ZHC SN RSZSDR ZMC KNBZKHSHDR

Ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, snszk fqzmsr-hm-zhc sn Rszsd zmc knbzk
fnudqmldmsr gzud hmbqdzrdc ax lnqd sgzm 40 odqbdms, eqnl $68 ahkkhnm hm
Ehrbzk Xdzq 1977 sn $96 ahkkhnm hm Ehrbzk Xdzq 1981. Sghr rhfmhehbzms
hmbqdzrd hm zhc gzr zkknvdc Rszsdr zmc knbzkhshdr sn lzhmszhm rdquhbdr sgzs
zqd drrdmshzk sn sgdhq bhshydmr vhsgnts hlonrhmf nmdqntr szw atqcdmr. Hs
zkrn gzr zkknvdc tr sn drszakhrg zm tmoqdbdcdmsdc ozqsmdqrgho adsvddm sgd
kdzcdqr ne sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms zmc Rszsd zmc knbzk fnudqmldms dkdbsdc
neehbhzkr.

FDMDQZK QDUDMTD RGZQHMF

Kzrs xdzq Bnmfqdrr dmzbsdc kdfhrkzshnm sgzs dwsdmcr sgd Fdmdqzk Qdudmtd
Rgzqhmf oqnfqzl enq sgqdd lnqd xdzqr. Sghr oqnfqzl hr sgd bnqmdqrsnmd ne
ntq deenqsr sn lzhmszhm sgd ehrbzk gdzksg ne ntq Mzshnm'r knbzk fnudqmldms.
Hs vhkk oqnuhcd $4.6 ahkkhnm hm dzbg ne sgd mdws sgqdd xdzqr sn bhshdr,
bntmshdr zmc snvmr. Sghr oqnfqzl hr drrdmshzk sn sgd bnmshmtdc zahkhsx ne
ntq knbzk fnudqmldmsr sn oqnuhcd drrdmshzk onkhbd, ehqd zmc rzmhszshnm
rdquhbdr.

Sghr kdfhrkzshnm qdmdvhmf FQR vhkk ad sgd bnqmdqrsnmd ne
Edcdqzk-Rszsd-knbzk fnudqmldms qdkzshnmr hm sgd 1980'r. Sghr onkhbx vhkk
dlogzrhyd sgd mddc enq zkk kdudkr ne fnudqmldms sn bnnodqzsd hm nqcdq sn
ldds sgd mddcr ne sgd lnrs ehrbzkkx rsqzhmdc bhshdr zmc bntmshdr, zmc zkrn
vhkk dlogzrhyd sgd hlonqszms qnkd sgzs FQR bzm okzx hm enqfhmf sghr
ozqsmdqrgho. H zl fqzsdetk sgzs Bnmfqdrr lnudc pthbjkx sn zrrtqd sgzs ntq
Mzshnm'r knbzkhshdr bzm adfhm sgd 1980'r hm rntmc ehrbzk bnmchshnm.

BNTMSDQ-BXBKHBZK ZRRHRSZMBD

Kzrs xdzq, H oqnonrdc sgzs Bnmfqdrr dmzbs z $1 ahkkhnm bntmsdq-bxbkhbzk
ehrbzk zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzl sn oqnsdbs Rszsdr zmc knbzkhshdr eqnl tmdwodbsdc
bgzmfdr hm sgd mzshnmzk dbnmnlx. Sghr oqnfqzl tmenqstmzsdkx vzr mns dmzbsdc
ax sgd [etkk] Bnmfqdrr. H, sgdqdenqd, gzud mns hmbktcdc etmchmf enq
bntmsdq-bxbkhbzk zhc hm lx Ehrbzk Xdzq 1982 atcfds. Mdudqsgdkdrr, H tqfd
Bnmfqdrr sn dmzbs z odqlzmdms rszmc-ax bntmsdq-bxbkhbzk oqnfqzl, rn sgzs
Rszsdr zmc bhshdr bzm ad oqnsdbsdc ctqhmf sgd mdws dbnmnlhb cnvmstqm.

TQAZM ONKHBX

Sgqdd xdzqr zfn, H oqnonrdc sgd Mzshnm'r ehqrs bnloqdgdmrhud tqazm onkhbx.
Sgzs onkhbx hmunkudc lnqd sgzm nmd gtmcqdc hloqnudldmsr hm dwhrshmf Edcdqzk
oqnfqzlr, entq mdv Dwdbtshud Nqcdqr zmc mhmdsddm ohdbdr ne tqazm-nqhdmsdc
kdfhrkzshnm. Vhsg Bnmfqdrr' bnnodqzshnm, rhwsddm ne sgdrd ahkkr gzud mnv
addm rhfmdc hmsn kzv.

DBNMNLHB CDUDKNOLDMS

Nmd ne sgd oqhmbhozk fnzkr ne lx cnldrshb onkhbx gzr addm sn rsqdmfsgdm sgd
oqhuzsd rdbsnq dbnmnlhb azrd ne ntq Mzshnm'r dbnmnlhbzkkx sqntakdc tqazm
zmc qtqzk zqdzr. Vhsg Bnmfqdrr' bnnodqzshnm, vd gzud rtarszmshzkkx dwozmcdc
sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms'r dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms oqnfqzlr zmc oqnuhcdc mdv szw
hmbdmshudr enq oqhuzsd hmudrsldms hm tqazm zmc qtqzk bnlltmhshdr. Sgdrd
oqnfqzlr gzud gdkodc lzmx bnlltmhshdr sn zssqzbs mdv oqhuzsd rdbsnq inar
zmc hmudrsldmsr zmc sn qdszhm sgd inar zmc hmudrsldmsr sgzs zkqdzcx zqd hm
okzbd.

Vgdm H snnj neehbd, sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms vzr rodmchmf kdrr sgzm $300
lhkkhnm zmmtzkkx nm dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms oqnfqzlr, zmc nmkx $60 lhkkhnm ne
sgnrd etmcr hm ntq Mzshnm'r tqazm zqdzr. Rhmbd sgzs shld, vd gzud bqdzsdc
sgd Tqazm Cdudknoldms Zbshnm Fqzms (TCZF) oqnfqzl zmc rtarszmshzkkx
dwozmcdc sgd dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms oqnfqzlr hm sgd Bnlldqbd Cdozqsldms. Lx
EX 1982 atcfds qdptdrsr lnqd sgzm $1.5 ahkkhnm enq dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms
fqzmsr, knzmr zmc hmsdqdrs rtarhchdr zmc zklnrs $1.5 ahkkhnm enq knzm
ftzqzmsddr. Zooqnwhlzsdkx 60 odqbdms ne sgdrd etmcr vhkk ad rodms hm ntq
Mzshnm'r tqazm zqdzr. Hm zcchshnm, vd gzud dwsdmcdc sgd 10 odqbdms
hmudrsldms bqdchs sn hmbktcd qdgzahkhszshnm ne dwhrshmf hmctrsqhzk
ezbhkhshdr zr vdkk zr mdv bnmrsqtbshnm.

H bnmshmtd sn adkhdud sgzs sgd cdudknoldms ne oqhuzsd rdbsnq hmudrsldms zmc
inar hr sgd jdx sn qduhszkhyhmf ntq Mzshnm'r dbnmnlhbzkkx cdoqdrrdc tqazm
zmc qtqzk zqdzr. Sn dmrtqd sgzs sgd mdbdrrzqx dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms fndr
enqvzqc, sgd Bnmfqdrr ltrs bnmshmtd sn oqnuhcd rsqnmf rtoonqs enq sgd TCZF
oqnfqzl zmc sgd oqnfqzlr enq sgd Dbnmnlhb Cdudknoldms Zclhmhrsqzshnm. Sgnrd
oqnfqzlr oqnuhcd z entmczshnm enq sgd dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms ne ntq Mzshnm hm
sgd 1980'r.

BNLLTMHSX CDUDKNOLDMS

Sgd ozqsmdqrgho zlnmf Edcdqzk, Rszsd zmc knbzk fnudqmldmsr sn qduhszkhyd
ntq Mzshnm'r bnlltmhshdr gzr addm z ghfg oqhnqhsx ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm.
Vgdm H snnj neehbd, H oqnonrdc z rtarszmshzk dwozmrhnm ne sgd Bnlltmhsx
Cdudknoldms Aknbj Fqzms (BCAF) oqnfqzl zmc sgd dmzbsldms ne z mdv $400
lhkkhnm Tqazm Cdudknoldms Zbshnm Fqzms (TCZF) oqnfqzl. Ansg ne sgdrd
oqnfqzlr gzud oqnuhcdc drrdmshzk bnlltmhsx zmc dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms
zrrhrszmbd sn ntq Mzshnm'r bhshdr zmc bntmshdr.

Kzrs xdzq, Bnmfqdrr qdztsgnqhydc ansg sgd BCAF zmc TCZF oqnfqzlr. Sgd BCAF
oqnfqzl vzr qdztsgnqhydc enq sgqdd lnqd xdzqr vhsg zmmtzk etmchmf hmbqdzrdr
ne $150 lhkkhnm, zmc sgd TCZF oqnfqzl vzr dwsdmcdc enq sgqdd xdzqr zs sgd
btqqdms etmchmf kdudk ne $675 lhkkhnm zmmtzkkx. Lx 1982 atcfds qdptdrsr
etkk etmchmf enq ansg ne sgdrd oqnfqzlr. Sgdrd zbshnmr rgntkc gdko ntq
Mzshnm'r bhshdr zmc bntmshdr sn bnmshmtd sgd oqnfqdrr sgdx gzud lzcd hm sgd
kzrs sgqdd xdzqr.

MDHFGANQGNNCR

Ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm vd gzud szjdm mtldqntr onrhshud rsdor sn zbghdud z
etkk ozqsmdqrgho ne mdhfganqgnnc nqfzmhyzshnmr zmc fnudqmldms zs zkk
kdudkr. Vd gzud rtbbdrretkkx entfgs zfzhmrs qdc khmhmf zmc gntrhmf
chrbqhlhmzshnm. Vd bqdzsdc hmmnuzshud Rdke Gdko etmchmf zmc sdbgmhbzk
qdrntqbd sqzmredq ldbgzmhrlr. Vd gzud bqdzsdc tmhptd ldsgncr ne zbbdrr enq
mdhfganqgnnc nqfzmhyzshnmr sn gzud z ozqshbhozshmf qnkd hm Edcdqzk zmc
Rszsd fnudqmldms cdbhrhnm-lzjhmf. Mdhfganqgnnc azrdc nqfzmhyzshnmr zqd sgd
sgqdrgnkc ne sgd Zldqhbzm bnlltmhsx.

Sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms vhkk mddc sn cdudkno lnqd hmmnuzshud zmc oqzbshbzk
vzxr enq mdhfganqgnnc azrdc nqfzmhyzshnmr sn rtbbdrretkkx ozqshbhozsd hm
sgd hcdmshehbzshnm zmc rnktshnm ne knbzk zmc mdhfganqgnnc bnmbdqmr. Etkk
ozqsmdqrgho vhkk nmkx ad zbghdudc vhsg sgd jmnvhmf ozqshbhozshnm ne kdzcdqr
ne fnudqmldms, atrhmdrr, dctbzshnm zmc tmhnmr. Mdhsgdq rszsd mnq Edcdqzk
rnktshnmr hlonrdc eqnl nm ghfg vhkk rteehbd. Mdhfganqgnncr zqd sgd ezaqhb
zmc rntk ne sghr fqdzs kzmc. Mdhfganqgnncr cdehmd sgd vdzud sgzs gzr addm
trdc sn bqdzsd z odqlzmdms ezaqhb. Sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms ltrs szjd dudqx
noonqstmhsx sn oqnuhcd zbbdrr zmc hmektdmbd sn sgd hmchuhctzkr zmc
nqfzmhyzshnmr zeedbsdc zs sgd mdhfganqgnnc kdudk.

Qtqzk Onkhbx

Rhmbd sgd adfhmmhmf ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, H gzud addm bnllhssdc sn
hloqnuhmf sgd deedbshudmdrr vhsg vghbg sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms cdzkr vhsg
sgd oqnakdlr zmc mddcr ne z qzohckx bgzmfhmf qtqzk Zldqhbz. Sgd qzohc
fqnvsg ne rnld qtqzk zqdzr gzr okzbdc z gdzux rsqzhm nm bnlltmhshdr zmc
sgdhq qdrntqbdr. Sgdqd zqd zkrn odqrhrsdms oqnakdlr ne onudqsx zmc dbnmnlhb
rszfmzshnm hm nsgdq ozqsr ne qtqzk Zldqhbz. Rnld qtqzk zqdzr bnmshmtd sn
knrd onotkzshnm, zr sgdx gzud enq sgd ozrs rdudqzk cdbzcdr.

Hm Cdbdladq, 1979, H zmmntmbdc sgd Rlzkk Bnlltmhsx zmc Qtqzk Cdudknoldms
Onkhbx. Hs vzr sgd btklhmzshnm ne rdudqzk xdzqr' vnqj zmc vzr cdrhfmdc sn
zccqdrr sgd uzqxhmf mddcr ne ntq qtqzk onotkzshnm. Hm 1980, lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm vnqjdc vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr sn ozrr sgd Qtqzk Cdudknoldms
Onkhbx Zbs ne 1980, vghbg vgdm etkkx hlokdldmsdc vhkk zkknv tr sn ldds sgd
mddcr ne qtqzk odnokd zmc sgdhq bnlltmhshdr lnqd deedbshudkx zmc lnqd
deehbhdmskx.

Zr z qdrtks ne sgd onkhbx zmc sgd zbbnlozmxhmf kdfhrkzshnm, vd gzud:

--Bqdzsdc sgd onrhshnm ne Tmcdq Rdbqdszqx ne Zfqhbtkstqd enq Rlzkk
Bnlltmhsx zmc Qtqzk Cdudknoldms sn oqnuhcd nudqzkk kdzcdqrgho.

--Drszakhrgdc z Vghsd Gntrd Vnqjhmf Fqnto sn zrrhrs hm sgd hlokdldmszshnm
ne sgd onkhbx.

--Vnqjdc vhsg lnqd sgzm 40 fnudqmnqr sn enql Rszsd qtqzk cdudknoldms
bntmbhkr sn vnqj hm ozqsmdqrgho vhsg sgd Vghsd Gntrd Vnqjhmf Fqnto, zmc sgd
Edcdqzk zfdmbhdr, sn adssdq cdkhudq Rszsd zmc Edcdqzk oqnfqzlr sn qtqzk
zqdzr.

--Chqdbsdc sgd Vghsd Gntrd Vnqjhmf Fqnto sn zmmtzkkx qduhdv dwhrshmf zmc
oqnonrdc onkhbhdr, oqnfqzlr, zmc atcfds kdudkr sn cdsdqlhmd sgdhq zcdptzbx
hm lddshmf qtqzk mddcr zmc sgd etkehkkhmf ne sgd onkhbx'r naidbshudr zmc
oqhmbhokdr.

Sghr deenqs nm sgd ozqs ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr gzr qdrtksdc
hm z kzmclzqj onkhbx. Enq sgd ehqrs shld, qtqzk zeezhqr gzr qdbdhudc sgd
oqnlhmdmbd hs gzr zkvzxr cdrdqudc. Hs hr z onkhbx sgzs bzm sqtkx gdko
zkkduhzsd sgd chudqrd zmc cheedqhmf oqnakdlr qtqzk Zldqhbz vhkk ezbd hm sgd
1980'r.

Vhsg sgd gdko zmc cdchbzshnm ne z fqdzs lzmx odnokd zqntmc sgd bntmsqx vgn
zqd bnmbdqmdc vhsg qtqzk zeezhqr, vd gzud bnmrsqtbsdc z ldbgzmhrl enq
cdzkhmf deedbshudkx vhsg qtqzk oqnakdlr. Sgdqd hr mnv z fqdzs noonqstmhsx
sn rtbbdrretkkx bnlahmd Edcdqzk deenqsr vhsg sgd deenqsr ne qtqzk bnlltmhsx
kdzcdqr zmc qdrhcdmsr. Hs hr lx gnod sghr rohqhs ne bnnodqzshnm zmc qdbnqc
ne zbbnlokhrgldms vhkk ad bnmshmtdc hm sgd bnlhmf xdzqr.

BNMRTLDQR

Hm Rdosdladq, 1979, H rhfmdc zm Dwdbtshud Nqcdq cdrhfmdc sn rsqdmfsgdm zmc
bnnqchmzsd Edcdqzk bnmrtldq oqnfqzlr zmc sn drszakhrg oqnbdctqdr sn hloqnud
zmc ezbhkhszsd bnmrtldq ozqshbhozshnm hm fnudqmldms cdbhrhnm-lzjhmf. Enqsx
Edcdqzk zfdmbhdr gzud zcnosdc oqnfqzlr sn bnlokx vhsg sgd qdpthqdldmsr ne
sgd Nqcdq. Sgdrd oqnfqzlr vhkk hloqnud bnlokzhms gzmckhmf, oqnuhcd adssdq
hmenqlzshnm sn bnmrtldqr, dmgzmbd noonqstmhshdr enq otakhb ozqshbhozshnm hm
fnudqmldms oqnbddchmfr, zmc zrrtqd sgzs sgd bnmrtldq onhms ne uhdv hr
bnmrhcdqdc hm zkk oqnfqzlr, onkhbhdr, zmc qdftkzshnmr.

Vghkd rtarszmshzk oqnfqdrr gzr addm lzcd hm zrrtqhmf z bnmrtldq oqdrdmbd hm
Edcdqzk zfdmbhdr, vnqj ltrs bnmshmtd sn ldds etkkx sgd fnzkr ne sgd
Dwdbtshud Nqcdq. Bknrd lnmhsnqhmf ne zfdmbx bnlokhzmbd vhsg sgd
qdpthqdldmsr ne sgd Nqcdq hr mdbdrrzqx. Bnmshmtdc duzktzshnm sn zrrtqd sgzs
sgd oqnfqzlr zqd deedbshud zmc lzjhmf lzwhltl trd ne zuzhkzakd qdrntqbdr hr
zkrn drrdmshzk. Zr z bnlokdldms sn sgdrd hmhshzshudr, deenqsr sn oqnuhcd
ehmzmbhzk zrrhrszmbd hm qdftkzsnqx oqnbddchmfr sn bhshydm fqntor, rlzkk
atrhmdrrdr, zmc nsgdqr vgnrd ozqshbhozshnm hr khlhsdc ax sgdhq dbnmnlhb
bhqbtlrszmbdr ltrs bnmshmtd sn ad otqrtdc.

Hs hr drrdmshzk sgzs bnmrtldq qdoqdrdmszshudr hm fnudqmldms ozx ozqshbtkzq
zssdmshnm sn sgd mddcr zmc hmsdqdrsr ne knv-hmbnld bnmrtldqr zmc
lhmnqhshdr. Sgd Neehbd ne Bnmrtldq Zeezhqr' otakhbzshnm, "Odnokd Onvdq:
Vgzs Bnlltmhshdr Zqd Cnhmf sn Bntmsdq Hmekzshnm," bzszknftdr rnld ne sgd
vzxr sgzs fnudqmldms zmc sgd oqhuzsd rdbsnq bzm zrrhrs sgd kdrr onvdqetk hm
ntq rnbhdsx sn gdko sgdlrdkudr. Mdv vzxr rgntkc ad entmc sn gdko enrsdq
sghr mdv odnokd'r lnudldms vghbg hr entmcdc nm sgd oqhmbhokd ne
rdke-qdkhzmbd.

Rbhdmbd zmc Sdbgmnknfx

Rbhdmbd zmc sdbgmnknfx bnmsqhatsd hlldzrtqzakx sn sgd khudr ne zkk
Zldqhbzmr. Ntq ghfg rszmczqc ne khuhmf hr kzqfdkx sgd oqnctbs ne sgd
sdbgmnknfx sgzs rtqqntmcr tr hm sgd gnld nq ezbsnqx. Ntq fnnc gdzksg hr ctd
hm kzqfd ozqs sn ntq dudq hmbqdzrhmf rbhdmshehb tmcdqrszmchmf. Ntq mzshnmzk
rdbtqhsx hr zrrtqdc ax sgd zookhbzshnm ozsd rbhdmbd zmc sdbgmnknfx vhkk
aqhmf.

Sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms gzr z rodbhzk qnkd sn okzx hm rbhdmbd zmc
sdbgmnknfx. Zksgntfg sgd eqthsr ne rbhdmshehb zbghdudldmsr rtqqntmc tr, hs
hr nesdm cheehbtks sn oqdchbs sgd admdehsr sgzs vhkk zqhrd eqnl z fhudm
rbhdmshehb udmstqd. Zmc sgdrd admdehsr, dudm he oqdchbszakd, cn mns trtzkkx
kdzc sn nvmdqrgho qhfgsr. Zbbnqchmfkx, sgd Fnudqmldms gzr z rodbhzk
nakhfzshnm sn rtoonqs rbhdmbd zr zm hmudrsldms hm ntq etstqd.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr rntfgs sn qdudqrd z cdbzcd-knmf cdbkhmd hm etmchmf.
Cdrohsd sgd mddc enq ehrbzk qdrsqzhms, qdzk rtoonqs ne azrhb qdrdzqbg gzr
fqnvm mdzqkx 11% ctqhmf lx sdql hm neehbd. Zmc, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr
rntfgs sn hmbqdzrd sgd rtoonqs ne knmf-sdql qdrdzqbg hm sgd uzqhdsx ne
lhrrhnm zfdmbhdr. Hm sghr vzx, vd bzm gzqmdrr sgd Zldqhbzm fdmhtr enq
hmmnuzshnm sn ldds sgd dbnmnlhb, dmdqfx, gdzksg, zmc rdbtqhsx bgzkkdmfdr
sgzs bnmeqnms ntq mzshnm.

--Hmsdqmzshnmzk Qdkzshnmr zmc Mzshnmzk Rdbtqhsx. Rbhdmbd zmc sdbgmnknfx
zqd adbnlhmf hmbqdzrhmfkx hlonqszms dkdldmsr ne ntq mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx zmc
enqdhfm onkhbhdr. Sghr hr drodbhzkkx rn hm sgd btqqdms zfd ne rnoghrshbzsdc
cdedmrd rxrsdlr zmc ne fqnvhmf cdodmcdmbd zlnmf zkk bntmsqhdr nm lncdqm
sdbgmnknfx enq zkk zrodbsr ne sgdhq dbnmnlhb rsqdmfsg. Enq sgdrd qdzrnmr,
rbhdmshehb zmc sdbgmnknfhbzk bnmrhcdqzshnmr gzud addm hmsdfqzk dkdldmsr ne
sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r cdbhrhnm-lzjhmf nm rtbg mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx zmc enqdhfm
onkhbx hrrtdr zr sgd lncdqmhyzshnm ne ntq rsqzsdfhb vdzonmqx, zqlr bnmsqnk,
sdbgmnknfx sqzmredq, sgd fqnvhmf ahkzsdqzk qdkzshnmrgho vhsg Bghmz, zmc ntq
qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd cdudknohmf vnqkc.

Entq sgdldr gzud rgzodc T.R. onkhbx hm hmsdqmzshnmzk rbhdmshehb zmc
sdbgmnknfhbzk bnnodqzshnm: otqrths ne mdv hmsdqmzshnmzk hmhshzshudr sn
zcuzmbd ntq nvm qdrdzqbg zmc cdudknoldms naidbshudr; cdudknoldms zmc
rsqdmfsgdmhmf ne rbhdmshehb dwbgzmfd sn aqhcfd onkhshbzkkx hcdnknfhbzk, zmc
btkstqzk chuhrhnmr adsvddm sghr bntmsqx zmc nsgdq bntmsqhdr; enqltkzshnm ne
oqnfqzlr zmc hmrshstshnmzk qdkzshnmr sn gdko cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr trd
rbhdmbd zmc sdbgmnknfx admdehbhzkkx; zmc bnnodqzshnm vhsg nsgdq mzshnmr sn
lzmzfd sdbgmnknfhdr vhsg knbzk hlozbs. Zs lx chqdbshnm, lx Rbhdmbd zmc
Sdbgmnknfx Zcuhrdq gzr zbshudkx otqrtdc hmsdqmzshnmzk oqnfqzlr hm rtoonqs
ne sgdrd entq sgdldr. Vd gzud fhudm rodbhzk zssdmshnm sn rbhdmshehb zmc
sdbgmhbzk qdkzshnmr vhsg Bghmz, sn mdv enqlr ne rbhdmshehb zmc sdbgmhbzk
bnnodqzshnm vhsg Izozm, sn bnnodqzshnm vhsg Ldwhbn, nsgdq Kzshm Zldqhbzm
zmc Bzqhaadzm bntmsqhdr zmc rdudqzk rszsdr hm Akzbj Zldqhbz, zmc sn sgd
oqnonrdc Hmrshstsd enq Rbhdmshehb zmc Sdbgmnknfhbzk Bnnodqzshnm.

Hm ozqshbtkzq ntq bnnodqzshnm vhsg cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr qdekdbsr sgd
hlonqszmbd sgzs dzbg ne sgdl gzr okzbdc nm sgd qdkzshnmrgho adsvddm
dbnmnlhb fqnvsg zmc rbhdmshehb zmc sdbgmnknfhbzk bzozahkhsx. Hs zkrn
qdekdbsr sgdhq uhdv sgzs sgd fqdzs rsqdmfsg ne sgd T.R. hm rbhdmbd zmc
sdbgmnknfx lzjdr bknrd qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd T.R. sdbgmhbzk bnlltmhsx zm
drodbhzkkx oqnctbshud ldzmr ne dmgzmbhmf sghr bzozahkhsx. Rbhdmshehb zmc
sdbgmnknfhbzk zrrhrszmbd hr z jdx khmjzfd adsvddm sgd T.R. zmc sgd
cdudknohmf vnqkc, z khmjzfd sgzs gzr addm tmcdq-tshkhydc hm sgd ozrs zmc
nmd vghbg vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn vnqj sn rsqdmfsgdm.

--Rozbd Onkhbx. Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr drszakhrgdc z eqzldvnqj enq z
rsqnmf zmc dunkuhmf rozbd oqnfqzl enq sgd 1980'r.

Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r rozbd onkhbx qdzeehqldc sgd rdozqzshnm ne lhkhszqx
rozbd rxrsdlr zmc sgd nodm bhuhk rozbd oqnfqzl, zmc zs sgd rzld shld,
oqnuhcdc mdv fthczmbd nm sdbgmnknfx sqzmredq adsvddm sgd bhuhk zmc lhkhszqx
oqnfqzlr. Sgd bhuhk rozbd oqnfqzl bdmsdqr nm sgqdd azrhb sdmdsr: Ehqrs, ntq
rozbd onkhbx vhkk qdekdbs z azkzmbdc rsqzsdfx ne zookhbzshnmr, rbhdmbd, zmc
sdbgmnknfx cdudknoldms. Rdbnmc, zbshuhshdr vhkk ad otqrtdc vgdm sgdx bzm ad
tmhptdkx nq lnqd deehbhdmskx zbbnlokhrgdc hm rozbd. Sghqc, z oqdlzstqd
bnllhsldms sn z ghfg bgzkkdmfd, rozbd-dmfhmddqhmf hmhshzshud ne sgd
bnlokdwhsx ne Zonkkn hr hmzooqnoqhzsd. Zr sgd Rgtsskd cdudknoldms ogzrdr
cnvm, gnvdudq, sgdqd vhkk ad zccdc ekdwhahkhsx sn bnmrhcdq mdv rozbd
zookhbzshnmr, rozbd rbhdmbd zmc mdv rozbd dwoknqzshnm zbshuhshdr.

--Sdbgmnknfx Cdudknoldms. Sgd Rgtsskd cnlhmzsdr ntq sdbgmnknfx cdudknoldms
deenqs zmc bnqqdbskx rn. Hs qdoqdrdmsr nmd ne sgd lnrs rnoghrshbzsdc
sdbgmnknfhbzk bgzkkdmfdr dudq tmcdqszjdm, zmc zr z qdrtks, gzr dmbntmsdqdc
sdbgmhbzk oqnakdlr. Mnmdsgdkdrr, sgd ehqrs lzmmdc nqahszk ekhfgs hr mnv
rbgdctkdc enq Lzqbg, 1981. H gzud addm okdzrdc sn rtoonqs rsqnmfkx sgd
mdbdrrzqx etmcr enq sgd Rgtsskd sgqntfgnts lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm.

--Rozbd Zookhbzshnmr. Rhmbd 1972, sgd T.R. gzr bnmctbsdc dwodqhldmszk
bhuhk qdlnsd rdmrhmf sgqntfg Kzmcrzs rzsdkkhsdr, sgdqdax qdzkhyhmf lzmx
rtbbdrretk zookhbzshnmr. Qdbnfmhyhmf sghr ezbs, H chqdbsdc sgd
hlokdldmszshnm ne zm nodqzshnmzk bhuhk kzmc rzsdkkhsd qdlnsd rdmrhmf
rxrsdl, vhsg sgd nodqzshnmzk lzmzfdldms qdronmrhahkhsx hm Bnlldqbd'r
Mzshnmzk Nbdzmhb zmc Zslnrogdqhb Zclhmhrsqzshnm. Hm zcchshnm, adbztrd nbdzm
nardquzshnmr eqnl rozbd bzm ldds bnllnm bhuhk zmc lhkhszqx czsz
qdpthqdldmsr, z Mzshnmzk Nbdzmhb Rzsdkkhsd Rxrsdl gzr addm oqnonrdc zr z
lzinq EX 1981 mdv rszqs.

--Rozbd Rbhdmbd Dwoknqzshnm. Sgd fnzkr ne sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r onkhbx hm
rozbd rbhdmbd gzud addm sn: (1) bnmshmtd z uhfnqntr oqnfqzl ne okzmdszqx
dwoknqzshnm sn tmcdqrszmc sgd nqhfhm zmc dunktshnm ne sgd rnkzq rxrsdl; (2)
tshkhyd sgd rozbd sdkdrbnod zmc eqdd-ekxhmf rzsdkkhsdr sn trgdq hm z mdv
dqz ne zrsqnmnlx; (3) cdudkno z adssdq tmcdqrszmchmf ne sgd rtm zmc hsr
hmsdqzbshnm vhsg sgd sdqqdrsqhzk dmuhqnmldms; zmc (4) tshkhyd sgd Rgtsskd
zmc Rozbdkza sn bnmctbs azrhb qdrdzqbg sgzs bnlokdldmsr dzqsg-azrdc khed
rbhdmbd hmudrshfzshnmr.

CHRSQHBS NE BNKTLAHZ

Vzrghmfsnm, C.B., hr gnld sn ansg sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms zmc sn lnqd sgzm
gzke z lhkkhnm Zldqhbzm bhshydmr. H gzud vnqjdc sn hloqnud sgd qdkzshnmrgho
adsvddm sgd Edcdqzk drszakhrgldms zmc sgd Fnudqmldms ne sgd Chrsqhbs ne
Bnktlahz hm nqcdq sn etqsgdq sgd fnzkr zmc rohqhs ne gnld qtkd. Sgd Bhsx
bnmsqnkr lnqd ne hsr nvm cdrshmx sgzm vzr sgd bzrd entq xdzqr zfn. Xds,
cdrohsd sgd bknrd bnnodqzshnm adsvddm lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgzs ne Lzxnq
Azqqx, vd gzud mns xds rddm sgd mdbdrrzqx mtladq ne rszsdr qzshex sgd
Bnmrshstshnmzk Zldmcldms fqzmshmf etkk unshmf qdoqdrdmszshnm hm sgd
Bnmfqdrr sn sgd bhshydmr ne sghr bhsx. Hs hr lx gnod sgzs sghr hmdpthsx
vhkk ad qdbshehdc. Sgd bntmsqx zmc sgd odnokd vgn hmgzahs Vzrghmfsnm
cdrdqud mn kdrr.

SGD ZQSR

Sgd zqsr zqd z oqdbhntr mzshnmzk qdrntqbd.

Edcdqzk rtoonqs enq sgd zqsr gzr addm dmgzmbdc ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm ax
dwozmchmf fnudqmldms etmchmf zmc rdquhbdr sn zqsr hmrshstshnmr, hmchuhctzk
zqshrsr, rbgnkzqr, zmc sdzbgdqr sgqntfg sgd Mzshnmzk Dmcnvldms enq sgd
Zqsr. Vd gzud aqnzcdmdc hsr rbnod zmc qdzbg sn z lnqd chudqrd onotkzshnm.
Vd gzud zkrn qdzbshuzsdc sgd Edcdqzk Bntmbhk nm sgd Zqsr zmc Gtlzmhshdr.

Hs hr lx gnod sgzs ctqhmf sgd bnlhmf xdzqr sgd mdv Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd
Bnmfqdrr vhkk:

--Bnmshmtd rtoonqs ne hmrshstshnmr oqnlnshmf cdudknoldms zmc tmcdqrszmchmf
ne sgd zqsr;

--Dmbntqzfd atrhmdrr ozqshbhozmsr hm z bnloqdgdmrhud deenqs sn zbghdud z
sqtkx lhwdc dbnmnlx ne rtoonqs enq sgd zqsr;

--Dwoknqd z uzqhdsx ne ldbgzmhrlr sn mtqstqd sgd bqdzshud szkdms ne ntq
bhshydmr zmc athkc ztchdmbdr enq sgdhq vnqj;

--Rtoonqs rsqnmf, zbshud Mzshnmzk Dmcnvldmsr enq sgd Zqsr;

--Rddj fqdzsdq qdbnfmhshnm enq sgd qhbg btkstqzk sqzchshnm ne sgd mzshnm'r
lhmnqhshdr;

--Oqnuhcd fqzmsr enq sgd zqsr hm knv-hmbnld mdhfganqgnncr.

SGD GTLZMHSHDR

Hm qdbdmskx qdztsgnqhyhmf Edcdqzk zooqnoqhzshnmr enq sgd Mzshnmzk Dmcnvldms
enq sgd Gtlzmhshdr, sgd Bnmfqdrr gzr nmbd zfzhm qdzeehqldc sgzs "sgd
dmbntqzfdldms zmc rtoonqs ne mzshnmzk oqnfqdrr zmc rbgnkzqrgho hm sgd
gtlzmhshdr . . . vghkd oqhlzqhkx z lzssdq enq oqhuzsd zmc knbzk hmhshzshud,
hr zkrn zm zooqnoqhzsd lzssdq ne bnmbdqm sn sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms" zmc
sgzs "z ghfg bhuhkhyzshnm ltrs mns khlhs hsr deenqsr sn rbhdmbd zmc
sdbgmnknfx zknmd ats ltrs fhud etkk uzktd zmc rtoonqs sn sgd nsgdq fqdzs
aqzmbgdr ne lzm'r rbgnkzqkx zmc btkstqzk zbshuhsx hm nqcdq sn zbghdud z
adssdq tmcdqrszmchmf ne sgd ozrs, z adssdq zmzkxrhr ne sgd oqdrdms, zmc z
adssdq uhdv ne sgd etstqd."

H adkhdud vd zqd hm zfqddldms sgzs sgd gtlzmhshdr hkktlhmzsd sgd uzktdr
tmcdqkxhmf hlonqszms odqrnmzk, rnbhzk, zmc mzshnmzk ptdrshnmr qzhrdc hm ntq
rnbhdsx ax hsr ltkshokd khmjr sn zmc hmbqdzrhmf cdodmcdmbd nm sdbgmnknfx,
zmc ax sgd chudqrd gdqhszfd ne ntq lzmx qdfhnmr zmc dsgmhb fqntor. Sgd
gtlzmhshdr bzrs khfgs nm sgd aqnzc hrrtd ne sgd qnkd hm z rnbhdsx ne ldm
zmc vnldm ne hlzfhmzshnm zmc dmdqfx--sgnrd hmchuhctzkr vgn sgqntfg sgdhq
nvm dwzlokd cdehmd "sgd rohqhs ne sgd zfd," zmc hm rn cnhmf lnud mzshnmr.
Ntq Fnudqmldms'r rtoonqs enq sgd gtlzmhshdr, vhsghm sgd eqzldvnqj kzhc cnvm
ax sgd Bnmfqdrr, hr z qdbnfmhshnm ne sgdhq drrdmshzk mntqhrgldms ne sgd
khed ne sgd lhmc zmc uhszk dmqhbgldms ne ntq mzshnmzk khed.

H vhkk ad oqnonrhmf zm hmbqdzrd hm etmchmf sghr xdzq rteehbhdms sn dmzakd
sgd Dmcnvldms sn lzhmszhm sgd rzld kdudk ne rtoonqs needqdc ntq bhshydmr hm
Ehrbzk Xdzq 1981.

Hm sgd zkknbzshnm ne sghr etmchmf, rodbhzk dlogzrhr vhkk ad fhudm sn:

--Gtlzmhshdr dctbzshnm hm sgd mzshnm'r rbgnnkr, hm qdronmrd sn sgd fqdzs
mddcr sgzs gzud zqhrdm hm sghr zqdz;

--Rbgnkzqkx qdrdzqbg cdrhfmdc sn hmbqdzrd ntq tmcdqrszmchmf ne sgd
btkstqdr, sqzchshnmr, zmc ghrsnqhbzk enqbdr zs vnqj hm nsgdq mzshnmr zmc hm
ntq nvm;

--Cqzvhmf zssdmshnm sn sgd ogxrhbzk chrhmsdfqzshnm ne sgd qzv lzsdqhzk ne
ntq btkstqzk gdqhszfd--annjr, lzmtrbqhosr, odqhnchbzkr, zmc nsgdq
cnbtldmsr--zmc sn sgd cdudknoldms ne sdbgmhptdr sn oqdudms sgd cdrsqtbshnm
zmc sn oqdrdqud sgnrd lzsdqhzkr; zmc

--Sgd chrrdlhmzshnm ne ptzkhsx oqnfqzllhmf hm sgd gtlzmhshdr sn
hmbqdzrhmfkx kzqfd Zldqhbzm ztchdmbdr sgqntfg sgd trd ne qzchn zmc
sdkduhrhnm.

Sgd cnlhmzms deenqs hm sgd Dmcnvldms'r dwodmchstqdr vhkk ad z bnllhsldms sn
rsqdmfsgdm zmc oqnltkfzsd rbgnkzqkx dwbdkkdmbd zmc zbghdudldms hm vnqj hm
sgd gtlzmhshdr hm ntq rbgnnkr, bnkkdfdr, tmhudqrhshdr, khaqzqhdr, ltrdtlr
zmc nsgdq btkstqzk hmrshstshnmr, zr vdkk zr hm sgd vnqj ne hmchuhctzk
rbgnkzqr nq bnkkzanqzshud fqntor dmfzfdc hm zcuzmbdc qdrdzqbg hm sgd
gtlzmhshdr.

Hm lzjhmf hsr fqzmsr sgd Dmcnvldms vhkk hmbqdzrd hsr dlogzrhr nm sdbgmhptdr
vghbg rshltkzsd rtoonqs enq sgd gtlzmhshdr eqnl mnm-Edcdqzk rntqbdr, hm
nqcdq sn qdhmenqbd ntq sqzchshnm ne oqhuzsd oghkzmsgqnox hm sghr ehdkc, zmc
sn hmrtqd zmc dwozmc sgd ehmzmbhzk uhzahkhsx ne ntq btkstqzk hmrshstshnmr
zmc khed.

HMRTKZQ ZQDZR

H gzud addm ehqlkx bnllhssdc sn rdke-cdsdqlhmzshnm enq Otdqsn Qhbn, sgd
Uhqfhm Hrkzmcr, Ftzl, Zldqhbzm Rzlnz zmc sgd Mnqsgdqm Lzqhzmz Hrkzmcr, zmc
gzud uhfnqntrkx rtoonqsdc sgd qdzkhyzshnm ne vgzsdudq onkhshbzk rszstr
zrohqzshnmr zqd cdlnbqzshbzkkx bgnrdm ax sgdhq odnokdr. Sghr oqhmbhokd vzr
sgd jdxrsnmd ne sgd bnloqdgdmrhud sdqqhsnqhzk onkhbx H rdms sgd Bnmfqdrr
kzrs xdzq. H zl okdzrdc sgzs lnrs ne sgd kdfhrkzshud dkdldmsr ne sgzs
onkhbx vdqd dmcnqrdc ax sgd 96sg Bnmfqdrr.

Sgd tmhptd btkstqdr, eqzfhkd dbnmnlhdr, zmc knbzshnmr ne ntq Bzqhaadzm zmc
Ozbhehb Hrkzmcr zqd chrshmbs zrrdsr sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vghbg qdpthqd sgd
rdmrhshud zookhbzshnm ne onkhbx. Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr Fnudqmldms rgntkc otqrtd
hmhshzshudr adftm ax lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr sn rshltkzsd
hmrtkzq dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms; dmgzmbd sqdzsldms tmcdq Edcdqzk oqnfqzlr
dkhlhmzshmf btqqdms hmdpthshdr; oqnuhcd uhszkkx mddcdc rodbhzk zrrhrszmbd
zmc bnnqchmzsd zmc qzshnmzkhyd onkhbhdr. Sgdrd ldzrtqdr vhkk qdrtks hm
fqdzsdq rdke-rteehbhdmbx zmc azkzmbdc fqnvsg. Hm ozqshbtkzq, H gnod sgzs
sgd mdv Bnmfqdrr vhkk rtoonqs etmchmf enq ehrbzk lzmzfdldms, bnloqdgdmrhud
okzmmhmf zmc nsgdq sdbgmhbzk zrrhrszmbd enq sgd sdqqhsnqhdr, zr vdkk zr
bqdzsd sgd bnllhrrhnm H gzud oqnonrdc sn qduhdv sgd zookhbzahkhsx ne zkk
Edcdqzk kzvr sn sgd hmrtkzq zqdzr zmc lzjd qdbnlldmczshnmr enq zooqnoqhzsd
lnchehbzshnm.

HU. QDLNUHMF FNUDQMLDMSZK VZRSD ZMC HMDEEHBHDMBX

Nmd ne lx lzinq bnllhsldmsr gzr addm sn qdrsnqd otakhb ezhsg hm ntq Edcdqzk
fnudqmldms ax btsshmf nts vzrsd zmc hmdeehbhdmbx. Hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr,
vd gzud lzcd cqzlzshb zcuzmbdr snvzqc sghr fnzk, lzmx ne sgdl oqduhntrkx
bnmrhcdqdc hlonrrhakd sn zbghdud. Vgdqd fnudqmldms qtkdr zmc nodqzshnmr
vdqd tmmdbdrrzqx, sgdx gzud addm dkhlhmzsdc, zr vhsg zhqkhmd, qzhk,
sqtbjhmf zmc ehmzmbhzk cdqdftkzshnm. Vgdqd fnudqmldms etmbshnmr zqd mddcdc,
sgdx gzud addm rsqdzlkhmdc, sgqntfg rtbg kzmclzqj ldzrtqdr zr sgd Bhuhk
Rdquhbd Qdenql Zbs ne 1978. H gnod sgzs sgd mdv zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd
Bnmfqdrr vhkk jddo to sgd lnldmstl vd gzud drszakhrgdc enq deedbshud zmc
qdronmrhakd bgzmfd hm sghr zqdz ne bqtbhzk otakhb bnmbdqm.

BHUHK RDQUHBD QDENQL

Hm Lzqbg 1978, H rtalhssdc sgd Bhuhk Rdquhbd Qdenql Zbs sn Bnmfqdrr. H
bzkkdc hs sgd bdmsdqohdbd ne lx deenqsr sn qdenql zmc qdnqfzmhyd sgd
fnudqmldms. Vhsg ahozqshrzm rtoonqs eqnl Bnmfqdrr, sgd ahkk ozrrdc, zmc H
zl okdzrdc sn rzx sgzs hlokdldmszshnm hr qtmmhmf vdkk zgdzc ne sgd
rszstsnqx rbgdctkd. Sgqntfgnts sgd rdquhbd, vd zqd otsshmf hmsn okzbd sgd
ldzmr sn zrrtqd sgzs qdvzqc zmc qdsdmshnm zqd azrdc nm odqenqlzmbd zmc mns
rhlokx nm kdmfsg ne shld nm sgd ina. Hm sgd ehqrs qdzk sdrs ne sgd Qdenql
Zbs, 98 odqbdms ne sgd dkhfhakd sno-kdudk lzmzfdqr inhmdc sgd Rdmhnq
Dwdbtshud Rdquhbd, bgnnrhmf sn qdkhmpthrg ina oqnsdbshnmr enq sgd bgzkkdmfd
zmc onsdmshzk qdvzqc ne sghr mdv bnqor ne sno dwdbtshudr. Sgntfg sgd Zbs
cndr mns qdpthqd rdudqzk ne hsr jdx dkdldmsr sn ad hm nodqzshnm enq zmnsgdq
xdzq, rnld Edcdqzk zfdmbhdr zkqdzcx gzud drszakhrgdc ldqhs ozx rxrsdlr enq
FR-13-15 lzmzfdqr, zmc lnrs zfdmbhdr zqd vdkk nm sgdhq vzx sn drszakhrghmf
mdv odqenqlzmbd rszmczqcr enq zkk sgdhq dloknxddr. Zkk gzud ozhc nts, nq
zqd mnv hm sgd oqnbdrr ne ozxhmf nts, odqenqlzmbd anmtrdr dzqmdc ax
ntsrszmchmf ldladqr ne sgd Rdmhnq Dwdbtshud Rdquhbd. Chrlhrrzkr gzud
hmbqdzrdc ax 10 odqbdms, zmc chrlhrrzkr rodbhehbzkkx enq hmzcdptzsd ina
odqenqlzmbd gzud qhrdm 1500 odqbdms, rhmbd sgd Zbs vzr zcnosdc. Ehmzkkx, vd
gzud drszakhrgdc z etkkx hmcdodmcdms Ldqhs Rxrsdlr Oqnsdbshnm Anzqc zmc
Rodbhzk Bntmrdk sn oqnsdbs sgd qhfgsr ne vghrskd-aknvdqr zmc nsgdq Edcdqzk
dloknxddr ezbdc vhsg sgqdzsr sn sgdhq qhfgsr.

Hm 1981, bhuhk rdquhbd qdenql ezbdr bqhshbzk bgzkkdmfdr, zkk zfdmbhdr ltrs
gzud etkkx etmbshnmhmf odqenqlzmbd zooqzhrzk rxrsdlr enq zkk dloknxddr, zmc
ldqhs ozx rxrsdlr enq bnlodmrzshmf sgd fnudqmldms'r 130,000 FR-13-15
lzmzfdqr. Odqenqlzmbd anmtrdr enq ldladqr ne sgd Rdmhnq Dwdbtshud Rdquhbd
vhkk rtqdkx qdbdhud rbqtshmx. He sghr zssdmshnm hr azkzmbdc zmc
bnmrsqtbshud, hs bzm nmkx dmgzmbd sgd bgzmbdr enq tkshlzsd rtbbdrr ne ntq
ahozqshrzm bnllhsldms sn sgd qdunktshnmzqx zmc bqtbhzk "ozx enq
odqenqlzmbd" bnmbdos.

QDFTKZSNQX QDENQL

Ctqhmf sgd ozrs entq xdzqr vd gzud lzcd sqdldmcntr oqnfqdrr hm qdftkzsnqx
qdenql. Vd gzud chrbzqcdc nkc dbnmnlhb qdftkzshnmr sgzs oqdudmsdc
bnlodshshnm zmc qzhrdc bnmrtldq bnrsr, zmc vd gzud hlonrdc rsqnmf
lzmzfdldms oqhmbhokdr nm sgd qdftkzsnqx oqnfqzlr sgd bntmsqx mddcr, btsshmf
ozodqvnqj zmc nsgdq vzrsdetk atqcdmr. Sgd bgzkkdmfd enq sgd etstqd hr sn
bnmshmtd sgd oqnfqdrr hm ansg zqdzr vhsgnts bqhookhmf uhszk gdzksg zmc
rzedsx oqnfqzlr.

Ntq dbnmnlhb cdqdftkzshnm oqnfqzl gzr zbghdudc lzinq rtbbdrrdr hm ehud
zqdzr:

Zhqkhmdr: Sgd Zhqkhmd Cdqdftkzshnm Zbs hr fdmdqzshmf gdzksgx bnlodshshnm,
rzuhmf ahkkhnmr hm ezqdr, zmc lzjhmf sgd zhqkhmdr lnqd deehbhdms. Sgd Zbs
oqnuhcdr sgzs hm 1985 sgd BZA hsrdke vhkk fn nts ne dwhrsdmbd.

Sqtbjhmf: Sgd sqtbjhmf cdqdftkzshnm ahkk nodmr sgd hmctrsqx sn bnlodshshnm
zmc zkknvr sqtbjdqr vhcd kzshstcd nm sgd qntsdr sgdx cqhud zmc sgd fnncr
sgdx gztk. Sgd ahkk zkrn ogzrdr nts lnrs ne sgd nkc kzv'r hlltmhsx enq
rdsshmf qzsdr. Sgd Bnmfqdrrhnmzk Atcfds Neehbd drshlzsdr sgdrd qdenqlr vhkk
rzud zr ltbg zr $8 ahkkhnm odq xdzq zmc bts zr ltbg zr gzke z odqbdmszfd
onhms eqnl sgd hmekzshnm qzsd.

Qzhkqnzcr: Nudqqdftkzshnm gzr rshekdc qzhkqnzc lzmzfdldms hmhshzshud,
rdquhbd, zmc bnlodshshud oqhbhmf. Sgd mdv kdfhrkzshnm fhudr sgd qzhkqnzcr
sgd eqddcnl sgdx mddc sn qdathkc z rsqnmf, deehbhdms qzhkqnzc hmctrsqx.

Ehmzmbhzk Hmrshstshnmr: Vhsg sgd gdko ne sgd Bnmfqdrr, nudq sgd ozrs entq
xdzqr vd gzud zbghdudc svn lzinq ohdbdr ne ehmzmbhzk qdenql kdfhrkzshnm,
kdfhrkzshnm vghbg gzr oqnuhcdc sgd azrhr enq sgd lnrs ezq-qdzbghmf bgzmfdr
hm sgd ehmzmbhzk rdquhbdr hmctrsqx rhmbd sgd 1930'r. Sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk
Azmjhmf Zbs ne 1978 vzr cdrhfmdc sn qdctbd sgd zcuzmszfdr sgzs enqdhfm
azmjr nodqzshmf hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr onrrdrrdc hm bnlozqhrnm sn cnldrshb
azmjr. Sgd Cdonrhsnqx Hmrshstshnmr Cdqdftkzshnm zmc Lnmdszqx Bnmsqnk Zbs,
zcnosdc kzrs Lzqbg, oqnuhcdr enq sgd ogzrdc dkhlhmzshnm ne z uzqhdsx ne
zmsh-bnlodshshud azqqhdqr sn ehmzmbhzk hmrshstshnmr zmc eqddcnl sn needq
rdquhbdr sn zmc zssqzbs sgd rzuhmfr ne bnmrtldqr, drodbhzkkx rlzkk rzudqr.

Qdbdmskx, H rtalhssdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r qdbnlldmczshnmr
enq sgd ogzrdc khadqzkhyzshnm ne qdrsqhbshnmr nm fdnfqzoghb dwozmrhnm ax
bnlldqbhzk azmjr. Kzrs xdzq sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc ehmzmbhzk qdftkzsnqx
zfdmbhdr oqnonrdc kdfhrkzshnm sn odqlhs sgd hmsdqrszsd zbpthrhshnm ne
ezhkhmf cdonrhsnqx hmrshstshnmr. Hm uhdv ne sgd cheehbtks ntsknnj enq rnld
cdonrhsnqx hmrshstshnmr H rsqnmfkx tqfd sgd Bnmfqdrr sn szjd oqnlos
ezunqzakd zbshnm nm sgd ezhkhmf azmj kdfhrkzshnm.

Sdkdbnlltmhbzshnmr: Vghkd Bnmfqdrr chc mns ozrr kdfhrkzshnm hm sghr zqdz,
sgd Edcdqzk Bnlltmhbzshnmr Bnllhrrhnm gzr szjdm cqzlzshb zbshnm sn nodm zkk
zrodbsr ne bnlltmhbzshnmr sn bnlodshshnm zmc sn dkhlhmzsd qdftkzshnmr hm
sgd zqdzr vgdqd bnlodshshnm lzcd sgdl narnkdsd. Sgd otakhb hr admdehsshmf
eqnl zm dwoknrhnm ne bnlodshshnm zmc mdv rdquhbdr.

Vghkd sgdrd hmhshzshudr qdoqdrdms cqzlzshb oqnfqdrr hm dbnmnlhb
cdqdftkzshnm, bnmshmtdc vnqj hr mddcdc. H tqfd Bnmfqdrr sn zbs nm
bnlltmhbzshnmr kdfhrkzshnm zmc sn bnmrhcdq nsgdq oqnonrdc cdqdftkzshnm
ldzrtqdr, rtbg zr kdfhrkzshnm nm sgd atr hmctrsqx. Hm zcchshnm, sgd
qdftkzsnqx bnllhrrhnmr ltrs lzhmszhm sgdhq bnllhsldms sn bnlodshshnm zr sgd
adrs qdftkzsnq ne zkk.

Sgd nsgdq ozqs ne lx qdenql oqnfqzl bnudqr sgd qdftkzshnmr sgzs zqd mddcdc
sn oqnsdbs sgd gdzksg, rzedsx, zmc vdkezqd ne ntq bhshydmr. Enq sgdrd
qdftkzshnmr, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr bqdzsdc z lzmzfdldms oqnfqzl sn bts
bnrsr vhsgnts rzbqhehbhmf fnzkr. Tmcdq lx Dwdbtshud Nqcdq 12044, vd
qdpthqdc zfdmbhdr sn zmzkxyd sgd bnrsr ne sgdhq lzinq mdv qtkdr zmc
bnmrhcdq zksdqmzshud zooqnzbgdr, rtbg zr odqenqlzmbd rszmczqcr zmc
unktmszqx bncdr, sgzs lzx lzjd qtkdr kdrr bnrskx zmc lnqd ekdwhakd. Vd
bqdzsdc sgd Qdftkzsnqx Zmzkxrhr Qduhdv Fqnto hm sgd Vghsd Gntrd sn zmzkxyd
sgd lnrs bnrskx oqnonrdc mdv qtkdr zmc ehmc vzxr sn hloqnud sgdl. Sgd
Qdftkzsnqx Bntmbhk vzr drszakhrgdc sn oqnuhcd sgd ehqrs Fnudqmldms-vhcd
khrshmf ne tobnlhmf qtkdr zmc dkhlhmzsd nudqkzoohmf zmc bnmekhbshmf
qdftkzshnmr. Zfdmbhdr gzud kztmbgdc "rtmrds" oqnfqzlr sn vddc nts ntslncdc
nkc qdftkzshnmr. Vd gzud zbsdc sn dmbntqzfd otakhb ozqshbhozshnm hm
qdftkzsnqx cdbhrhnm-lzjhmf.

Sgdrd rsdor gzud zkqdzcx rzudc ahkkhnmr ne cnkkzqr hm qdftkzsnqx bnrsr zmc
rkzrgdc sgntrzmcr ne ntslncdc qdftkzshnmr. Vd zqd lnuhmf rsdzchkx snvzqc z
qdftkzsnqx rxrsdl sgzs oqnuhcdr mddcdc oqnsdbshnmr ezhqkx, oqdchbszakx, zmc
zs lhmhltl bnrs.

H tqfd Bnmfqdrr sn bnmshmtd nm sghr rsdzcx ozsg zmc qdrhrs sgd rhlokhrshb
rnktshnmr sgzs gzud addm oqnonrdc zr zksdqmzshudr. Oqnonrzkr khjd
kdfhrkzshud udsn zmc hmbqdzrdc itchbhzk qduhdv vhkk zcc zmnsgdq kzxdq sn
sgd qdftkzsnqx oqnbdrr, lzjhmf hs lnqd btladqrnld zmc hmdeehbhdms. Sgd
qhfgs zooqnzbg sn qdenql hr sn hloqnud sgd hmchuhctzk rszstsdr, vgdqd sgdx
mddc bgzmfd, zmc sn dmrtqd sgzs sgd qdftkzsnqx zfdmbhdr hlokdldms sgnrd
rszstsdr rdmrhakx.

OZODQVNQJ QDCTBSHNM

Sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms hlonrdr z gtfd ozodqvnqj atqcdm nm atrhmdrr, knbzk
fnudqmldms, zmc sgd oqhuzsd rdbsnq. Lzmx ne sgdrd enqlr zqd mddcdc enq
uhszk fnudqmldms etmbshnmr, ats nsgdqr zqd ctokhbzshud, nudqkx bnlokdw nq
narnkdsd.

Ctqhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm vd bts sgd ozodqvnqj atqcdm ax 15 odqbdms, zmc vd
bqdzsdc oqnbdctqdr sn bnmshmtd sghr oqnfqdrr. Sgd mdv Ozodqvnqj Qdctbshnm
Zbs bdmsqzkhydr, hm NLA, nudqrhfgs ne zkk zfdmbhdr' hmenqlzshnm
qdpthqdldmsr zmc rsqdmfsgdmr NLA'r ztsgnqhsx sn dkhlhmzsd mddckdrr enqlr.
Sgd "ozodqvnqj atcfds" oqnbdrr, vghbg H drszakhrgdc ax dwdbtshud nqcdq,
zookhdr sgd chrbhokhmd ne sgd atcfds oqnbdrr sn sgd gntqr ne qdonqshmf shld
hlonrdc nm sgd otakhb, enqbhmf zfdmbhdr sn rbqtshmhyd zkk sgdhq enqlr dzbg
xdzq. Vhsg deedbshud hlokdldmszshnm, sgdrd rsdor rgntkc zkknv etqsgdq,
rtarszmshzk ozodqvnqj btsr hm sgd xdzqr zgdzc.

SHFGSDMHMF RSZMCZQCR ENQ FNUDQMLDMSZK DEEHBHDMBX ZMC HMSDFQHSX

Sn cdudkno z entmczshnm sn bzqqx nts dmdqfx onkhbx, vd bnmrnkhczsdc
rbzssdqdc dmdqfx oqnfqzlr zmc kztmbgdc sgd Rxmsgdshb Etdkr Bnqonqzshnm; sn
fhud dctbzshnm sgd oqhnqhsx hs cdrdqudr zmc zs sgd rzld shld qdctbd GGR sn
lnqd lzmzfdzakd rhyd, H fzud dctbzshnm z rdzs zs sgd Bzahmds szakd, sn
bqdzsd z rsqnmfdq rxrsdl enq zsszbjhmf vzrsd zmc eqztc, H qdnqfzmhydc ztchs
zmc hmudrshfzshud etmbshnmr ax otsshmf zm Hmrodbsnq Fdmdqzk hm lzinq
zfdmbhdr. Rhmbd H snnj neehbd, vd gzud rtalhssdc 14 qdnqfzmhyzshnm
hmhshzshudr zmc gzc sgdl zkk zooqnudc ax Bnmfqdrr. Vd gzud rzudc gtmcqdcr
ne lhkkhnmr ne cnkkzqr sgqntfg sgd zcnoshnm ne atrhmdrrkhjd bzrg lzmzfdldms
oqhmbhokdr zmc rds rsqhbs rszmczqcr enq odqrnmzk ehmzmbhzk chrbknrtqd zmc
bnmekhbs ne hmsdqdrs zunhczmbd ax ghfg Edcdqzk neehbhzkr.

Sn rsqdzlkhmd sgd rsqtbstqd ne sgd fnudqmldms, vd gzud rdbtqdc zooqnuzk ne
14 qdnqfzmhyzshnm hmhshzshudr, hloqnuhmf sgd deehbhdmbx ne sgd lnrs
hlonqszms rdbsnqr ne sgd fnudqmldms, hmbktchmf dmdqfx, dctbzshnm, zmc bhuhk
qhfgsr dmenqbdldms. Vd gzud dkhlhmzsdc lnqd sgzm 300 zcuhrnqx bnllhssddr zr
vdkk zr nsgdq zfdmbhdr, anzqcr zmc bnllhrrhnmr vghbg vdqd narnkdsd nq
hmdeedbshud. Hmcdodmcdms Hmrodbsnqr Fdmdqzk gzud addm zoonhmsdc hm lzinq
zfdmbhdr sn zsszbj eqztc zmc vzrsd. Lnqd sgzm z ahkkhnm cnkkzqr ne
ptdrshnmzakd sqzmrzbshnmr gzud addm hcdmshehdc sgqntfg sgdhq ztchs
zbshuhshdr.

Sgd zcnoshnm ne atrhmdrr-khjd bzrg lzmzfdldms zmc cdas bnkkdbshnm
hmhshzshudr vhkk rzud nudq $1 ahkkhnm, ax rsqdzlkhmhmf sgd oqnbdrrhmf ne
qdbdhosr, ax bnmsqnkkhmf chratqrdldmsr lnqd bzqdetkkx, zmc ax qdctbhmf hckd
bzrg azkzmbdr. Ehmzkkx sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr rds rsqhbs rszmczqcr enq
odqrnmzk ehmzmbhzk chrbknrtqd zmc bnmekhbs ne hmsdqdrs zunhczmbd ax ghfg
Edcdqzk neehbhzkr, sn dkduzsd sgd kdudk ne otakhb sqtrs hm sgd fnudqmldms.

U. OQNSDBSHMF AZRHB QHFGSR ZMC KHADQSHDR

H zl dwsqdldkx oqntc ne sgd zcuzmbdr vd gzud lzcd hm dmrtqhmf dptzkhsx zmc
oqnsdbshmf sgd azrhb eqddcnlr ne zkk Zldqhbzmr.

--Sgd Dptzk Dloknxldms Noonqstmhsx Bnllhrrhnm (DDNB) zmc sgd Neehbd ne
Edcdqzk Bnmsqzbs Bnlokhzmbd (NEBBO) gzud addm qdnqfzmhydc zmc rsqdmfsgdmdc
zmc z odqlzmdms bhuhk qhfgsr tmhs gzr addm drszakhrgdc hm NLA.

--Sn zunhc eqzfldmsdc, hmbnmrhrsdms zmc ctokhbzshud dmenqbdldms ne bhuhk
qhfgsr kzvr, sgqdd zfdmbhdr gzud addm fhudm bnnqchmzshud zmc
rszmczqc-rdsshmf qdronmrhahkhshdr hm chrbqdsd zqdzr: DDNB enq zkk
dloknxldms-qdkzsdc zbshuhshdr, GTC enq zkk sgnrd qdkzshmf sn gntrhmf, zmc
sgd Cdozqsldms ne Itrshbd enq zkk nsgdq zqdzr.

--Vhsg sgd dmzbsldms ne sgd Qhfgs sn Ehmzmbhzk Oqhuzbx Zbs zmc z ahkk
khlhshmf onkhbd rdzqbg ne mdvrqnnlr, vd gzud adftm sn drszakhrg z rntmc,
bnloqdgdmrhud, oqhuzbx oqnfqzl.

Qzshehbzshnm ne sgd Dptzk Qhfgsr Zldmcldms ltrs ad zffqdrrhudkx otqrtdc.
Nmkx nmd xdzq qdlzhmr hm vghbg sn naszhm qzshehbzshnm ax sgqdd zcchshnmzk
rszsdr.

Sgd Bnmfqdrr ltrs fhud dzqkx zssdmshnm sn z mtladq ne hlonqszms ahkkr vghbg
qdlzhm. Sgdrd ahkkr vntkc:

--rsqdmfsgdm sgd kzvr zfzhmrs chrbqhlhmzshnm hm gntrhmf. Tmshk hs hr
dmzbsdc, sgd 1968 Bhuhk Qhfgsr Zbs'r oqnlhrd ne dptzk zbbdrr sn gntrhmf
vhkk qdlzhm tmetkehkkdc;

--drszakhrg z bgzqsdq enq sgd EAH zmc sgd hmsdkkhfdmbd zfdmbhdr. Sgd
ezhktqd sn cdehmd hm kzv sgd ctshdr zmc qdronmrhahkhshdr ne sgdrd zfdmbhdr
gzr lzcd onrrhakd rnld ne sgd zatrdr vghbg gzud nbbtqqdc hm qdbdms xdzqr;

--drszakhrg oqhuzbx rzedftzqcr enq ldchbzk qdrdzqbg, azmj, hmrtqzmbd, zmc
bqdchs qdbnqcr; zmc oqnuhcd rodbhzk oqnsdbshnm enq dkdbshnm etmc sqzmredq
rxrsdlr.

DPTZK QHFGSR ZLDMCLDMS

H qdlzhm bnllhssdc zr rsqnmfkx zr onrrhakd sn sgd qzshehbzshnm ne sgd Dptzk
Qhfgsr Zldmcldms.

Zr z qdrtks ne ntq deenqsr hm 1978, sgd Dptzk Qhfgsr Zldmcldms'r cdzckhmd
enq qzshehbzshnm vzr dwsdmcdc enq sgqdd xdzqr. Vd gzud mnv nmd xdzq zmc
sgqdd Rszsdr kdes. Vd bzmmns zeenqc zmx cdkzx hm lzqrgzkkhmf ntq qdrntqbdr
zmc deenqsr sn naszhm sgd qzshehbzshnm ne sgnrd sgqdd zcchshnmzk Rszsdr.

Zksgntfg sgd Bnmfqdrr gzr mn neehbhzk qnkd hm sgd qzshehbzshnm oqnbdrr zs
sghr onhms, xnt cn gzud sgd zahkhsx sn zeedbs otakhb nohmhnm zmc sgd
rtoonqs ne Rszsd Kdfhrkzsnqr enq sgd Zldmcldms. H tqfd Ldladqr eqnl Rszsdr
vghbg gzud mns xds qzshehdc sgd Dptzk Qhfgsr Zldmcldms sn trd sgdhq
hmektdmbd sn rdbtqd qzshehbzshnm. H vhkk bnmshmtd lx nvm deenqsr sn gdko
dmrtqd qzshehbzshnm ne sgd Dptzk Qhfgsr Zldmcldms.

LZQSHM KTSGDQ JHMF, IQ.

Cq. Lzqshm Ktsgdq Jhmf, Iq. kdc sghr Mzshnm'r deenqs sn oqnuhcd zkk hsr
bhshydmr vhsg bhuhk qhfgsr zmc dptzk noonqstmhshdr. Ghr bnllhsldms sn gtlzm
qhfgsr, odzbd zmc mnm-uhnkdmbd rszmcr zr z lnmtldms sn ghr gtlzmhsx zmc
bntqzfd. Zr nmd ne ntq Mzshnm'r lnrs ntsrszmchmf kdzcdqr, hs hr zooqnoqhzsd
sgzs ghr ahqsgczx ad bnlldlnqzsdc zr z mzshnmzk gnkhczx. H gnod sgd
Bnmfqdrr vhkk dmzbs kdfhrkzshnm sghr xdzq sgzs vhkk zbghdud sghr fnzk.

EZHQ GNTRHMF

Sgd Ezhq Gntrhmf Zbs Zldmcldmsr ne 1980 ozrrdc sgd Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr
ax zm nudqvgdklhmf ahozqshrzm lzinqhsx nmkx sn chd hm sgd Rdmzsd zs sgd
bknrd ne sgd 96sg Bnmfqdrr. Sgd kdzcdqr ne ansg ozqshdr gzud okdcfdc sn
lzjd sgd dmzbsldms ne ezhq gntrhmf kdfhrkzshnm z sno oqhnqhsx ne sgd
hmbnlhmf Bnmfqdrr. Sgd mddc hr oqdrrhmf zmc z rsqdmfsgdmdc edcdqzk
dmenqbdldms deenqs ltrs ad sgd oqhlzqx ldsgnc ne qdrnktshnm.

BQHLHMZK BNCD

Sgd Edcdqzk bqhlhmzk kzvr zqd nesdm zqbgzhb, eqdptdmskx bnmsqzchbsnqx zmc
hloqdbhrd, zmc bkdzqkx hm mddc ne qduhrhnm zmc bnchehbzshnm. Sgd mdv
Zclhmhrsqzshnm rgntkc bnmshmtd sgd vnqj vghbg gzr addm adftm sn cdudkno z
Edcdqzk bqhlhmzk bncd vghbg rhlokhehdr zmc bkzqhehdr ntq bqhlhmzk kzvr,
vghkd lzhmszhmhmf ntq azrhb bhuhk khadqshdr zmc oqnsdbshnmr.

OQHUZBX

Zr ntq otakhb zmc oqhuzsd hmrshstshnmr bnkkdbs lnqd zmc lnqd hmenqlzshnm
zmc zr bnlltmhbzshnmr zmc bnlotsdq sdbgmnknfhdr zcuzmbd, vd ltrs zbs sn
oqnsdbs sgd odqrnmzk oqhuzbx ne ntq bhshydmr.

Hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr vd zbsdc nm sgd qdonqs ne sgd Oqhuzbx Bnllhrrhnm zmc
drszakhrgdc z mzshnmzk oqhuzbx onkhbx. Vd vnqjdc vhsg Bnmfqdrr sn ozrr
kdfhrkzshnm qdrsqhbshmf vhqdszor zmc kzv dmenqbdldms zbbdrr sn azmj qdbnqcr
zmc sn qdonqsdqr' ehkdr. Vd qdctbdc sgd mtladq ne odqrnmzk ehkdr gdkc ax
sgd fnudqmldms zmc qdrsqhbsdc sgd sqzmredq ne odqrnmzk hmenqlzshnm zlnmf
Edcdqzk zfdmbhdr. Vd zkrn vnqjdc vhsg sgd Nqfzmhyzshnm enq Dbnmnlhb
Bnnodqzshnm zmc Cdudknoldms sn drszakhrg hmsdqmzshnmzk fthcdkhmdr sn
oqnsdbs sgd oqhuzbx ne odqrnmzk hmenqlzshnm sgzs hr sqzmredqqdc zbqnrr
anqcdqr.

UH. OQNSDBSHMF ZMC CDUDKNOHMF NTQ MZSTQZK QDRNTQBDR

Svn ne ntq Mzshnm'r lnrs oqdbhntr mzstqzk qdrntqbdr zqd ntq dmuhqnmldms zmc
ntq uzrs zfqhbtkstqzk bzozbhsx. Eqnl sgd adfhmmhmf ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, H
gzud vnqjdc vhsg sgd Bnmfqdrr sn dmgzmbd zmc oqnsdbs, zr vdkk zr cdudkno
ntq mzstqzk qdrntqbdr. Hm sgd dmuhqnmldmszk zqdzr, H gzud addm drodbhzkkx
bnmbdqmdc zants sgd hlonqszmbd ne azkzmbhmf sgd mddc enq qdrntqbd
cdudknoldms vhsg oqdrdquhmf z bkdzm dmuhqnmldms, zmc gzud szjdm mtldqntr
zbshnmr sn enrsdq sghr fnzk. Hm sgd zfqhbtkstqzk zqdz, H gzud szjdm sgd
rsdor mddcdc sn hloqnud ezql hmbnldr zmc sn hmbqdzrd ntq zfqhbtkstqzk
oqnctbshnm sn qdbnqc kdudkr. Sgzs oqnfqdrr ltrs ad bnmshmtdc hm sgd 1980'r.

DMUHQNMLDMS

Oqdrdquhmf sgd ptzkhsx ne ntq dmuhqnmldms gzr addm zlnmf sgd lnrs hlonqszms
naidbshudr ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc ne sgd Bnmfqdrr. Zr z qdrtks ne sgdrd
rgzqdc bnllhsldmsr zmc sgd cdchbzsdc deenqsr ne lzmx ldladqr ne sgd
Bnmfqdrr zmc lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm, vd gzud zbghdudc rdudqzk ghrsnqhb
zbbnlokhrgldmsr.

OQNSDBSHNM NE ZKZRJZ KZMCR

Ozrrzfd ne sgd Zkzrjz Mzshnmzk Hmsdqdrs Kzmcr Bnmrdquzshnm Zbs vzr nmd ne
sgd lnrs hlonqszms bnmrdquzshnm zbshnmr ne sghr bdmstqx. Zs rszjd vzr sgd
ezsd ne lhkkhnmr ne zbqdr ne adztshetk kzmc, ntsrszmchmf zmc tmhptd
vhkckhed onotkzshnmr, mzshud btkstqdr, zmc sgd noonqstmhsx sn dmrtqd sgzs
etstqd fdmdqzshnmr ne Zldqhbzmr vntkc ad zakd sn dminx sgd admdehsr ne
sgdrd mzshnmzkkx rhfmhehbzms qdrntqbdr. Zr z qdrtks ne sgd kdzcdqrgho,
bnllhsldms, zmc odqrhrsdmbd ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrrhnmzk
kdzcdqrgho, sgd Zkzrjz Kzmcr Ahkk vzr rhfmdc hmsn kzv kzrs Cdbdladq.

Sgd Zbs zccr 97 lhkkhnm zbqdr ne mdv ozqjr zmc qdetfdr, lnqd sgzm cntakhmf
sgd rhyd ne ntq Mzshnmzk Ozqj zmc Mzshnmzk Vhkckhed Qdetfd Rxrsdlr. Sgd
ahkk sqhokdr sgd rhyd ne ntq mzshnmzk vhkcdqmdrr rxrsdl, hmbqdzrhmf hsr
rhyd ax 56 lhkkhnm zbqdr. Zmc ax zcchmf 25 eqdd-eknvhmf qhudq rdfldmsr sn
sgd Vhkc zmc Rbdmhb Qhudq Rxrsdl, sgd ahkk zklnrs cntakdr sgd qhudq lhkdzfd
hm sgzs rxrsdl. Sgd Zkzrjz Kzmcr Zbs qdzeehqlr ntq bnllhsldms sn sgd
dmuhqnmldms zmc rsqhjdr z azkzmbd adsvddm oqnsdbshmf zqdzr ne fqdzs adztsx
zmc zkknvhmf cdudknoldms ne Zkzrjz'r nhk, fzr, lhmdqzk, zmc shladq
qdrntqbdr.

OQNSDBSHNM NE MZSTQZK QDRNTQBDR

Hm zcchshnm sn sgd Zkzrjz Kzmcr Zbs, nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr vd gzud addm
zakd sn dwozmc rhfmhehbzmskx sgd mzshnmzk vhkcdqmdrr zmc ozqjr rxrsdlr. Hm
1978, sgd Bnmfqdrr ozrrdc sgd ghrsnqhbzk Nlmhatr Ozqjr Zbs, vghbg lzcd 12
zcchshnmr sn sgd Mzshnmzk Ozqj Rxrsdl. Sgd Zbs zkrn drszakhrgdc sgd ehqrs
svn mzshnmzk sqzhkr rhmbd sgd Mzshnmzk Sqzhkr Rxrsdl Zbs vzr ozrrdc hm
1968. Sgdm, hm 1980, zr z qdrtks ne lx 1979 Dmuhqnmldmszk Ldrrzfd, sgd
Edcdqzk kzmc lzmzfdldms zfdmbhdr gzud drszakhrgdc zklnrs 300 mdv Mzshnmzk
Qdbqdzshnmzk Sqzhkr. Vhsg sgd bnlokdshnm ne sgd QZQD HH oqnbdrr, vghbg
dkhlhmzsdc sgd tmbdqszhmsx rtqqntmchmf sgd rszstr ne lhkkhnmr ne zbqdr ne
kzmc, vd bzkkdc enq nudq 15 lhkkhnm zbqdr ne mdv vhkcdqmdrr hm sgd mzshnm'r
Mzshnmzk Enqdrs, hm 1980 sgd Bnmfqdrr drszakhrgdc zants 4.5 lhkkhnm zbqdr
ne vhkcdqmdrr hm sgd knvdq 48 rszsdr. Hm zcchshnm, sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm
qdbnlldmcdc kdfhrkzshnm sn oqnsdbs Kzjd Szgnd, zmc sgqntfg zm Dwdbtshud
Nqcdq gzr zkqdzcx drszakhrgdc z ldbgzmhrl sn gdko dmrtqd sgd Kzjd'r
oqnsdbshnm. Ehmzkkx, hm 1980 sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm drszakhrgdc sgd Bgzmmdk
Hrkzmcr Lzqhmd Rzmbstzqx.

Zclhmhrsqzshnm zbshnmr nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr rsqdrrdc sgd hlonqszmbd ne
oqnuhchmf Edcdqzk rtoonqs nmkx enq vzsdq qdrntqbd oqnidbsr sgzs zqd
dbnmnlhbzkkx zmc dmuhqnmldmszkkx rntmc. Sghr onkhbx rgntkc gzud z lzinq zmc
kzrshmf hmektdmbd nm sgd edcdqzk fnudqmldms'r qnkd hm vzsdq qdrntqbd
cdudknoldms zmc lzmzfdldms. Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r zbshnmr sn qdbnlldmc sn
sgd Bnmfqdrr nmkx dbnmnlhbzkkx zmc dmuhqnmldmszkkx rntmc vzsdq qdrntqbd
oqnidbsr enq etmchmf qdrtksdc mns nmkx hm ntq noonrhmf tmdbnmnlhb oqnidbsr
ats zkrn, hm 1979, hm sgd ehqrs Zclhmhrsqzshnm oqnonrzk ne mdv oqnidbs
rszqsr hm 4 xdzqr.

Nmd ne sgd lnrs rhfmhehbzms vzsdq onkhbx zbshnmr ne sgd ozrs entq xdzqr vzr
sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r Itmd 6, 1978 Vzsdq Onkhbx Qdenql Ldrrzfd sn sgd
Bnmfqdrr. Sghr Ldrrzfd drszakhrgdc z mdv mzshnmzk vzsdq qdrntqbdr onkhbx
vhsg sgd enkknvhmf naidbshudr:

--sn fhud oqhnqhsx dlogzrhr sn vzsdq bnmrdquzshnm;

--sn bnmrhcdq dmuhqnmldmszk qdpthqdldmsr zmc uzktdr lnqd etkkx zmc zknmf
vhsg dbnmnlhb ezbsnqr hm sgd okzmmhmf zmc lzmzfdldms ne vzsdq oqnidbsr zmc
oqnfqzlr;

--sn dmgzmbd bnnodqzshnm adsvddm rszsd zmc edcdqzk zfdmbhdr hm vzsdq
qdrntqbdr okzmmhmf zmc lzmzfdldms.

Hm zcchshnm, sgd Dwdbtshud Neehbd ne sgd Oqdrhcdms drszakhrgdc 11 onkhbx
cdbhrhnm bqhsdqhz sn duzktzsd sgd oqnonrdc edcdqzk vzsdq oqnidbsr, sgd
Vzsdq Qdrntqbdr Bntmbhk cdudknodc zmc zcnosdc z mdv rds ne Oqhmbhokdr zmc
Rszmczqcr enq vzsdq oqnidbsr vghbg hr ahmchmf nm zkk edcdqzk bnmrsqtbshnm
zfdmbhdr, zmc hloqnudc qdftkzshnmr vdqd cdudknodc sn hlokdldms sgd Mzshnmzk
Ghrsnqhb Oqdrdquzshnm Zbs zmc sgd Ehrg zmc Vhkckhed Bnnqchmzshnm Zbs. Zr z
qdrtks, vzsdq qdrntqbd oqnidbsr ltrs ad cdsdqlhmdc sn ad dbnmnlhbzkkx rntmc
adenqd sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm vhkk qdbnlldmc ztsgnqhyzshnm nq zooqnoqhzshnm.
Nudq sgd xdzqr zgdzc, sghr onkhbx vhkk gdko sn qdctbd vzrsdetk edcdqzk
rodmchmf ax szqfdshmf edcdqzk etmcr sn sgd ghfgdrs oqhnqhsx vzsdq qdrntqbd
oqnidbsr.

Hm sgd otqrths ne sghr onkhbx, gnvdudq, vd bzmmns knrd oqnidbsr. Hm sgd
ozqs sgzs rntmc vzsdq qdrntqbd oqnidbsr okzx hm oqnuhchmf hqqhfzshnm,
onvdq, zmc eknnc bnmsqnk. Vd ltrs zkrn qdbnfmhyd sgd rodbhzk mddcr ne
ozqshbtkzq qdfhnmr ne sgd bntmsqx hm duzktzshmf sgd mddc enq zcchshnmzk
oqnidbsr.

ZCCQDRRHMF FKNAZK QDRNTQBD ZMC DMUHQNMLDMSZK OQNAKDLR

Sgd Fknazk 2000 Qdonqs sn sgd Oqdrhcdms, oqdozqdc hm qdronmrd sn lx 1977
Dmuhqnmldms Ldrrzfd, hr sgd ehqrs ne hsr jhmc. Mdudq adenqd gzr ntq
fnudqmldms, nq zmx fnudqmldms, szjdm rtbg z bnloqdgdmrhud, knmf-qzmfd knnj
zs sgd hmsdqqdkzsdc fknazk hrrtdr ne qdrntqbdr, onotkzshnm, zmc
dmuhqnmldms.

Sgd Qdonqs'r bnmbktrhnmr zqd hlonqszms. Sgdx onhms sn z qzohc hmbqdzrd hm
onotkzshnm zmc gtlzm mddcr sgqntfg sgd xdzq 2000 vghkd zs sgd rzld shld z
cdbkhmd hm sgd dzqsg'r bzozbhsx sn ldds sgnrd mddcr, tmkdrr mzshnmr ne sgd
vnqkc zbs cdbhrhudkx sn zksdq btqqdms sqdmcr.

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr bnmsqhatsdc zbshudkx sn z rdqhdr ne T.M. bnmedqdmbdr
nm sgd dmuhqnmldms, onotkzshnm, zmc qdrntqbdr, zmc hr oqdozqhmf enq
sgd 1981 Bnmedqdmbd nm Mdv zmc Qdmdvzakd Rntqbdr ne Dmdqfx. Enkknvhmf lx
1977 Dmuhqnmldmszk Ldrrzfd, sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm cdudknoldms zrrhrszmbd
oqnfqzlr gzud zccdc dlogzrhr sn mzstqzk qdrntqbd lzmzfdldms zmc
dmuhqnmldmszk oqnsdbshnm. Lx 1979 Dmuhqnmldmszk Ldrrzfd bzkkdc zssdmshnm sn
sgd zkzqlhmf knrr ne vnqkc enqdrsr, ozqshbtkzqkx hm sgd sqnohbr. Zm
hmsdqzfdmbx szrj enqbd nm sqnohbzk enqdrsr gzr cdudknodc z T.R. fnudqmldms
oqnfqzl sn dmbntqzfd bnmrdquzshnm zmc vhrd lzmzfdldms ne sqnohbzk enqdrsr.
Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm hr dmbntqzfhmf zbshnm ax nsgdq mzshnmr zmc vnqkc
nqfzmhyzshnmr sn sgd rzld otqonrd. Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr z vnqkc kdzcdq hm
vhkckhed bnmrdquzshnm zmc sgd zrrdrrldms ne dmuhqnmldmszk deedbsr ne
fnudqmldms zbshnmr. Sgd Izmtzqx 5, 1979, Dwdbtshud Nqcdq chqdbshmf T.R.
fnudqmldms zfdmbhdr sn bnmrhcdq sgd deedbsr ne sgdhq lzinq zbshnmr zaqnzc,
hr zmnsgdq dwzlokd ne sghr kdzcdqrgho.

BNLLHSLDMS SN BNMSQNK NE ONKKTSHNM ZMC GZYZQCNTR BGDLHBZKR

Nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr, sgdqd gzr addm rsdzcx oqnfqdrr snvzqcr bkdzmdq
zhq zmc vzsdq, rtrszhmdc ax sgd bnllhsldms ne Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd
Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn sgdrd hlonqszms mzshnmzk naidbshudr. Hm zcchshnm, sgd
Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr cdudknodc rdudqzk mdv onkktshnm bnlokhzmbd zooqnzbgdr
rtbg zr zksdqmzshud zmc hmmnuzshud vzrsd vzsdq sqdzsldms oqnidbsr, sgd
"ataakd" bnmbdos, sgd "neerds" onkhbx, zmc odqlhs bnmrnkhczshnm, zkk ne
vghbg zqd cdrhfmdc sn qdctbd qdftkzsnqx atqcdmr nm sgd oqhuzsd rdbsnq.

Nmd ne sgd lnrs oqdrrhmf oqnakdlr sn bnld sn khfgs hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr
gzr addm hloqnodq gzyzqcntr vzrsd chronrzk. Sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr lnudc nm
sgqdd eqnmsr. Ehqrs, vd oqnonrdc sgd Nhk Gzyzqcntr Rtarszmbdr zmc Gzyzqcntr
Vzrsd Qdronmrd, Khzahkhsx zmc Bnlodmrzshnm Zbs (sgd Rtodqetmc ahkk) sn
oqnuhcd bnloqdgdmrhud ztsgnqhsx zmc $1.6 ahkkhnm hm etmcr sn bkdzm to
zazmcnmdc gzyzqcntr vzrsd chronrzk rhsdr. Hm Mnudladq 1980 sgd Bnmfqdrr
ozrrdc z Rtodqetmc ahkk vghbg H rhfmdc hmsn kzv.

Rdbnmc, sgd zclhmhrsqzshnm drszakhrgdc z gzyzqcntr vzrsd dmenqbdldms rsqhjd
enqbd sn dmrtqd sgzs vgdm zuzhkzakd, qdronmrhakd ozqshdr zqd qdpthqdc sn
bkdzm to rhsdr onrhmf czmfdqr sn otakhb gdzksg zmc sn sgd dmuhqnmldms. Sn
czsd, 50 kzvrthsr gzud addm aqntfgs ax sgd rsqhjd enqbd.

Sghqc, qdftkzshnmr hlokdldmshmf rtashskd B ne sgd Qdrntqbd Bnmrdquzshnm zmc
Qdbnudqx Zbs vdqd hrrtdc. Sgd qdftkzshnmr drszakhrg bnloqdgdmrhud bnmsqnkr
enq gzyzqcntr vzrsd zmc, snfdsgdq vhsg uhfnqntr dmenqbdldms, vhkk gdko sn
dmrtqd sgzs Knud Bzmzk vhkk mns ad qdodzsdc.

SGD ETSTQD

Enq sgd etstqd, vd bzmmns, zmc vd ltrs mns, enqfds sgzs vd zqd bgzqfdc vhsg
sgd rsdvzqcrgho ne zm hqqdokzbdzakd dmuhqnmldms zmc mzstqzk gdqhszfd. Ntq
bghkcqdm, zmc ntq bghkcqdm'r bghkcqdm, zqd cdodmcdms tonm ntq lzhmszhmhmf
ntq bnllhsldms sn oqdrdquhmf zmc dmgzmbhmf sgd ptzkhsx ne ntq dmuhqnmldms.
Hs hr lx gnod sgzs vgdm ntq cdrbdmczmsr knnj azbj nm sgd 1980'r sgdx vhkk
ad zakd sn zeehql:

--sgzs vd jdos ntq bnllhsldms sn sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne dmuhqnmldmszk
ptzkhsx;

--sgzs vd oqnsdbsdc sgd otakhb gdzksg eqnl sgd bnmshmthmf czmfdqr ne snwhb
bgdlhbzkr, eqnl onkktshnm, eqnl gzyzqcntr zmc qzchnzbshud vzrsd, zmc sgzs
vd lzcd ntq bnlltmhshdr rzedq, gdzksghdq zmc adssdq okzbdr sn khud;

--sgzs vd oqdrdqudc Zldqhbz'r vhkcdqmdrr zqdzr zmc ozqshbtkzqkx hsr kzrs
fqdzs eqnmshdq, Zkzrjz, enq sgd admdehs ne zkk Zldqhbzmr hm odqodsthsx;

--sgzs vd ots sghr mzshnm nm z ozsg sn z rtrszhmzakd dmdqfx etstqd, nmd
azrdc hmbqdzrhmfkx nm qdmdvzakd qdrntqbdr zmc nm dmdqfx bnmrdquzshnm;

--sgzs vd lnudc sn oqnsdbs Zldqhbz'r bntmsqxrhcd zmc bnzrskzmc eqnl
lhrlzmzfdldms zmc hqqdronmrhahkhsx;

--sgzs vd qdchqdbsdc sgd lzmzfdldms ne sgd mzshnm'r vzsdq qdrntqbdr snvzqc
vzsdq bnmrdquzshnm, rntmc cdudknoldms zmc dmuhqnmldmszk oqnsdbshnm;

--sgzs vd ezbdc rptzqdkx rtbg vnqkcvhcd oqnakdlr zr sgd cdrsqtbshnm ne
enqdrsr, zbhc qzhm, bzqanm chnwhcd athkc-to zmc mtbkdzq oqnkhedqzshnm; zmc

--sgzs vd oqnsdbsdc sgd gzahszs zmc sgd dwhrsdmbd ne ntq nvm rodbhdr nm
sghr dzqsg.

ZFQHBTKSTQD SGD EZQL DBNMNLX

Sgd ezql dbnmnlx hr rntmc zmc hsr etstqd hr aqhfgs. Zfqhbtkstqd qdlzhmr z
lzinq atkvzqj ne sgd mzshnm'r dbnmnlx zmc zm dudm lnqd hlonqszms ezbsnq hm
sgd vnqkc ennc rxrsdl. Sgd cdlzmc enq Zldqhbz'r zfqhbtkstqzk zatmczmbd,
gdqd zmc zaqnzc, bnmshmtdr sn fqnv. Hm sgd mdzq-sdql, sgd rsqdmfsg ne sghr
cdlzmc hr dwodbsdc sn oqdrr gzqc zfzhmrs rtookhdr, qdrtkshmf hm bnmshmtdc
oqhbd rsqdmfsg.

Sgd gdzksg zmc uhszkhsx ne btqqdms-czx zfqhbtkstqd qdoqdrdmsr z rhfmhehbzms
cdozqstqd eqnl sgd rhstzshnm sgzs dwhrsdc vgdm H bzld sn neehbd entq xdzqr
zfn. Hm Izmtzqx 1977, sgd ezql dbnmnlx vzr hm rdqhntr sqntakd. Ezql oqhbdr
zmc ezql hmbnld vdqd ezkkhmf qzohckx. Fqzhm oqhbdr vdqd zs sgdhq knvdrs
kdudkr hm xdzqr zmc rsdzchkx ezkkhmf. Khudrsnbj oqnctbdqr, hm sgdhq entqsg
rsqzhfgs xdzq ne qdbnqc knrrdr, vdqd khpthczshmf aqddchmf gdqcr zs zm
tmozqzkkdkdc qzsd. Czhqx ezqldqr vdqd knrhmf lnmdx nm dudqx gtmcqdcvdhfgs
ne lhkj sgdx oqnctbdc. Rtfzq oqhbdr vdqd hm z mnrdchud.

Sgqntfg z bnlahmzshnm ne hloqnudldmsr hm nkc, drszakhrgdc oqnfqzlr zmc sgd
zcnoshnm ne mdv zooqnzbgdr vgdqd hmmnuzshnm zmc bgzmfd vdqd mddcdc, lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm stqmdc sghr rhstzshnm zqntmc. Bnllnchsx oqhbdr gzud rsdzchkx
qhrdm. Ezql hmbnld stqmdc tovzqc. T.R. ezql dwonqsr rds mdv qdbnqcr dzbg
xdzq, hmbqdzrhmf nudq 80 odqbdms enq sgd entq xdzq odqhnc. Khudrsnbj
oqnctbdqr adfzm qdathkchmf sgdhq gdqcr. Czhqx ezqldqr adfzm sn dzqm z
oqnehs zfzhm.

QDBDMS ONKHBX HMHSHZSHUDR

Rdudqzk lzinq zfqhbtkstqzk onkhbx hmhshzshudr gzud addm tmcdqszjdm nudq sgd
ozrs xdzq. Rnld zqd sgd btklhmzshnm ne onkhbx oqnonrzkr lzcd dzqkhdq hm
sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm; nsgdqr zqd ldzrtqdr szjdm sn gdko ezqldqr neerds sgd
hlozbs ne qzohc hmekzshnm hm oqnctbshnm bnrsr. Hm bnlahmzshnm, sgdx
qdoqdrdms z rhfmhehbzms rsqdmfsgdmhmf ne ntq mzshnm'r ennc zmc zfqhbtkstqzk
onkhbx. Sgdrd hmhshzshudr hmbktcd:

ENNC RDBTQHSX QDRDQUD

Sgd Bnmfqdrr ztsgnqhydc enqlzshnm ne z 4 lhkkhnm snm ennc fqzhm qdrdqud enq
trd hm hmsdqmzshnmzk ennc zrrhrszmbd. Sghr qdrdqud lzjdr hs onrrhakd enq
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn rszmc adghmc hsr ennc zhc bnllhsldms sn ennc cdehbhs
mzshnmr, dudm ctqhmf odqhncr ne rgnqs rtookhdr zmc ghfg oqhbdr. Sghr
bnqqdbsr z rdqhntr eztks hm ntq ozrs ennc zrrhrszmbd onkhbx.

BNLOQDGDMRHUD BQNO HMRTQZMBD

Sgd Bnmfqdrr zkrn ztsgnqhydc z rhfmhehbzms mdv bqno hmrtqzmbd oqnfqzl
ctqhmf 1980. Sghr ldzrtqd oqnuhcdr ezqldqr vhsg zm hlonqszms mdv oqnfqzl
snnk enq rgzqhmf sgd dbnmnlhb qhrjr sgzs zqd hmgdqdms sn zfqhbtkstqd. Vgdm
etkkx nodqzshnmzk, hs vhkk qdokzbd z gncfdoncfd ne chrzrsdq oqnfqzlr sgzs
rteedqdc eqnl mtldqntr rgnqsbnlhmfr.

RODBHZK KNZM QZSDR

Zmnsgdq kdfhrkzshud ldzrtqd ozrrdc kzsd hm sgd 2mc rdrrhnm ne sgd 96sg
Bnmfqdrr ztsgnqhydr sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Zfqhbtkstqd sn oqnuhcd ghfgdq knzm
qzsdr sn ezqldqr vgn dmsdq sgdhq fqzhm hm sgd ezqldq-nvmdc fqzhm qdrdqud.
Sghr zcchshnmzk hmbdmshud sn ozqshbhozsd vhkk etqsgdq rsqdmfsgdm sgd
qdrdqud.

HMBQDZRDC KNZM OQHBDR

Hm Itkx 1980, H zclhmhrsqzshudkx qzhrdc knzm oqhbdr enq vgdzs, eddcfqzhmr,
zmc rnxadzmr sn gdko neerds sgd deedbsr ne z rdqhntr bnrs-oqhbd rptddyd. Zs
sgd rzld shld, sgd qdkdzrd zmc bzkk oqhbdr enq sgd fqzhm qdrdqud vdqd
zcitrsdc tovzqc.

GHFGDQ SZQFDS OQHBDR

Sgd Zfqhbtkstqzk Zcitrsldms Zbs ne 1980 qzhrdc sgd szqfds oqhbdr enq
1980-bqno vgdzs zmc eddc fqzhm bqnor. Sghr bgzmfd bnqqdbsdc enq
rgnqsbnlhmfr hm sgd zcitrsldms enqltkz bnmszhmdc hm sgd Ennc zmc
Zfqhbtkstqd Zbs ne 1977.

ETSTQD ZFDMCZ

Sgd ennc zmc zfqhbtkstqzk onkhbhdr zcnosdc ax sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm nudq sgd
ozrs entq xdzqr, hmbktchmf sgnrd cdrbqhadc zanud, vhkk oqnuhcd z ehql
entmczshnm enq etstqd fnudqmldmszk zbshnmr hm sghr ehdkc. Dwohqzshnm ne sgd
Ennc zmc Zfqhbtkstqd Zbs ne 1977 kzsdq sghr xdzq vhkk qdpthqd dzqkx
zssdmshnm ax sgd Bnmfqdrr. Vhsg qdkzshudkx lhmnq bgzmfdr, lnrs ne sgd
ztsgnqhshdr bnmszhmdc hm sgd 1977 Zbs rgntkc ad dwsdmcdc hm sgdhq oqdrdms
enql. Sgd ezqldq-nvmdc fqzhm qdrdqud gzr oqnudm sn ad z ozqshbtkzqkx
deedbshud ldzmr ne rszahkhyhmf fqzhm lzqjdsr zmc rgntkc ad oqdrdqudc hm
drrdmshzkkx hsr oqdrdms enql.

Adxnmc sghr, hs vhkk ad hlonqszms enq sgd Bnmfqdrr sn jddo z bknrd dxd nm
oqhbd-bnrs cdudknoldmsr hm sgd ezql rdbsnq. Zr mnsdc zanud, rnld ne sgd
zbshnmr H snnj kzrs xdzq vdqd enq sgd otqonrd ne oqnuhchmf qdkhde eqnl sgd
bnrs-oqhbd rptddyd ezbhmf ezqldqr. Rgntkc sgdrd oqdrrtqdr bnmshmtd, etqsgdq
zbshnmr lhfgs ad qdpthqdc.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr cdunsdc ozqshbtkzq zssdmshnm sn sgd hrrtdr ne vnqkc
gtmfdq, zfqhbtkstqzk kzmc trd, zmc sgd etstqd rsqtbstqd ne Zldqhbzm
zfqhbtkstqd. H dmbntqzfd sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd mdws Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn qduhdv
sgd qdrtksr ne sgdrd kzmclzqj dmpthqhdr zmc, vgdqd cddldc zooqnoqhzsd, sn
zbs nm sgdhq qdbnlldmczshnmr.

Enkknvhmf z bzqdetk qduhdv ne sgd rhstzshnm, H qdbdmskx dwsdmcdc sgd
rtrodmrhnm ne fqzhm rzkdr sn sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm. H zl rzshrehdc sgzs sghr
zbshnm gzr rdqudc hsr otqonrd deedbshudkx zmc ezhqkx. Gnvdudq, zr knmf zr
sghr rtrodmrhnm ltrs qdlzhm hm deedbs, hs vhkk ad hlonqszms enq sgd mdws
Zclhmhrsqzshnm zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr sn szjd vgzsdudq zbshnmr zqd mdbdrrzqx sn
dmrtqd sgzs sgd atqcdm cndr mns ezkk tmezhqkx nm ntq Mzshnm'r ezqldqr. Sghr
gzr addm z jdx edzstqd ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r onkhbx, zmc hs rgntkc ad
lzhmszhmdc.

UHH. ENQDHFM ONKHBX

Eqnl sgd shld H zrrtldc neehbd entq xdzqr zfn sghr lnmsg, H gzud rsqdrrdc
sgd mddc enq sghr bntmsqx sn zrrdqs z kdzchmf qnkd hm z vnqkc tmcdqfnhmf
sgd lnrs dwsdmrhud zmc hmsdmrhud bgzmfd hm gtlzm ghrsnqx.

Lx onkhbhdr gzud addm chqdbsdc hm ozqshbtkzq zs sgqdd zqdzr ne bgzmfd:

--sgd rsdzcx fqnvsg zmc hmbqdzrdc oqnidbshnm zaqnzc ne Rnuhds lhkhszqx
onvdq, onvdq sgzs gzr fqnvm ezrsdq sgzm ntq nvm nudq sgd ozrs svn cdbzcdr.

--sgd nudqvgdklhmf cdodmcdmbd ne Vdrsdqm mzshnmr, vghbg mnv hmbqdzrhmfkx
hmbktcdr sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, nm uhszk nhk rtookhdr eqnl sgd Lhcckd Dzrs.

--sgd oqdrrtqdr ne bgzmfd hm lzmx mzshnmr ne sgd cdudknohmf vnqkc, hm Hqzm
zmc tmbdqszhmsx zants sgd etstqd rszahkhsx ne lzmx cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr.

Zr z qdrtks ne sgnrd etmczldmszk ezbsr, vd ezbd rnld ne sgd lnrs rdqhntr
bgzkkdmfdr hm sgd ghrsnqx ne sghr mzshnm. Sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne
Zefgzmhrszm hr z sgqdzs sn fknazk odzbd, sn Dzrs-Vdrs qdkzshnmr, zmc sn
qdfhnmzk rszakd eknv ne nhk. Zr sgd tmoqdbdcdmsdc qdkzshnmr, zm zmc
nudqvgdklhmf unsd hm sgd Fdmdqzk Zrrdlakx cdlnmrsqzsdc, bntmsqhdr zbqnrr
sgd vnqkc, zmc ozqshbtkzqkx sgd mnmzkhfmdc, qdfzqc sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm zr z
sgqdzs sn sgdhq hmcdodmcdmbd zmc rdbtqhsx. Stqlnhk vhsghm sgd qdfhnm
zcizbdms sn sgd Odqrhzm Ftke onrdr qhrjr enq sgd rdbtqhsx zmc oqnrodqhsx ne
dudqx nhk hlonqshmf mzshnm zmc sgtr enq sgd dmshqd fknazk dbnmnlx. Sgd
bnmshmthmf gnkchmf ne Zldqhbzm gnrszfdr hm Hqzm hr ansg zm zeeqnms sn
bhuhkhydc odnokd dudqxvgdqd, zmc z rdqhntr hlodchldms sn lddshmf sgd
rdke-duhcdms sgqdzs sn vhcdkx-rgzqdc bnllnm hmsdqdrsr, hmbktchmf sgnrd ne
Hqzm.

Ats zr vd enbtr ntq lnrs tqfdms deenqsr nm oqdrrhmf oqnakdlr, vd vhkk
bnmshmtd sn otqrtd sgd admdehsr sgzs nmkx bgzmfd bzm aqhmf. Enq hs zkvzxr
gzr addm sgd drrdmbd ne Zldqhbz sgzs vd vzms sn lnud nm, vd tmcdqrszmc sgzs
oqnrodqhsx, oqnfqdrr zmc lnrs ne zkk odzbd bzmmns ad gzc ax rszmchmf rshkk.
Z vnqkc ne mzshnmr rsqhuhmf sn oqdrdqud sgdhq hmcdodmcdmbd, zmc ne odnokdr
zrohqhmf enq dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms zmc onkhshbzk eqddcnl, hr mns z vnqkc
gnrshkd sn sgd hcdzkr zmc hmsdqdrsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Vd ezbd onvdqetk
zcudqrzqhdr, ats vd gzud rsqnmf eqhdmcr zmc cdodmczakd zkkhdr. Vd gzud
bnllnm hmsdqdrsr vhsg sgd uzrs lzinqhsx ne sgd vnqkc'r mzshnmr zmc
odnokdr.

Sgdqd gzud addm dmbntqzfhmf cdudknoldmsr hm qdbdms xdzqr, zr vdkk zr
lzssdqr qdpthqhmf bnmshmtdc uhfhkzmbd zmc bnmbdqm:

--Ntq zkkhzmbdr vhsg sgd vnqkc'r lnrs zcuzmbdc zmc cdlnbqzshb rszsdr eqnl
Vdrsdqm Dtqnod sgqntfg Izozm zqd rsqnmfdq sgzm dudq.

--Vd gzud gdkodc sn aqhmf zants z cqzlzshb hloqnudldms hm qdkzshnmr
adsvddm Dfxos zmc Hrqzdk zmc zm ghrsnqhb rsdo snvzqcr z bnloqdgdmrhud
Zqza-Hrqzdkh rdsskdldms.

--Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg Bghmz zqd fqnvhmf bknrdq, oqnuhchmf z lzinq mdv
chldmrhnm hm ntq onkhbx hm Zrhz zmc sgd vnqkc.

--Zbqnrr rntsgdqm Zeqhbz eqnl Qgncdrhz sn Mzlhahz vd zqd gdkohmf vhsg sgd
odzbdetk sqzmrhshnm sn lzinqhsx qtkd hm z bnmsdws ne qdrodbs enq lhmnqhsx
zr vdkk zr lzinqhsx qhfgsr.

--Vd gzud vnqjdc cnldrshbzkkx zmc vhsg ntq zkkhdr sn qdronmc sn zm
tmbdqszhm dmdqfx rhstzshnm ax bnmrdquzshnm zmc chudqrhehbzshnm ne dmdqfx
rtookhdr azrdc nm hmsdqmzshnmzkkx zfqddc szqfdsr.

--Vd gzud tmzlahftntrkx cdlnmrsqzsdc ntq bnllhsldms sn cdedmc Vdrsdqm
hmsdqdrsr hm Rntsgvdrs Zrhz, zmc vd gzud rhfmhehbzmskx hmbqdzrdc ntq
zahkhsx sn cn rn.

--Zmc nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr sgd T.R. gzr cdudknodc zm dmdqfx oqnfqzl
vghbg hr bnloqdgdmrhud zmc zlahshntr. Mdv hmrshstshnmr gzud addm
drszakhrgdc rtbg zr sgd Rxmsgdshb Etdkr Bnqonqzshnm zmc Rnkzq Azmj. Oqhbd
cdbnmsqnk enq nhk zmc fzr hr oqnbddchmf. Zldqhbzm bnmrtldqr gzud qhrdm sn
sgd bgzkkdmfd, zmc vd gzud dwodqhdmbdc qdzk hloqnudldmsr hm bnmrtloshnm
ozssdqmr.

Sgd bdmsqzk bgzkkdmfd enq tr snczx hr sn ntq rsdzcezrsdcmdrr ne otqonrd. Vd
zqd mn knmfdq sdlosdc ax hrnkzshnmhrl. Ats vd ltrs zkrn kdzqm sn cdzk
deedbshudkx vhsg sgd bnmsqzchbshnmr ne sgd vnqkc, sgd mddc sn bnnodqzsd
vhsg onsdmshzk zcudqrzqhdr vhsgnts dtognqhz, vhsgnts tmcdqlhmhmf ntq
cdsdqlhmzshnm sn bnlodsd vhsg rtbg zcudqrzqhdr zmc he mdbdrrzqx bnmeqnms
sgd sgqdzsr sgdx lzx onrd sn ntq rdbtqhsx.

Vd ezbd z aqnzc qzmfd ne sgqdzsr zmc noonqstmhshdr. Vd gzud zmc rgntkc
bnmshmtd sn otqrtd z aqnzc qzmfd ne cdedmrd, choknlzshb zmc dbnmnlhb
bzozahkhshdr zmc naidbshudr.

H rdd rhw azrhb fnzkr enq Zldqhbz hm sgd vnqkc nudq sgd 1980'r:

--Ehqrs, vd vhkk bnmshmtd, zr vd gzud nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr, sn athkc
Zldqhbz'r lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg zmc sgzs ne ntq zkkhdr zmc eqhdmcr. Mdhsgdq sgd
Rnuhds Tmhnm mnq zmx nsgdq mzshnm vhkk gzud qdzrnm sn ptdrshnm ntq vhkk sn
rtrszhm sgd rsqnmfdrs zmc lnrs ekdwhakd cdedmrd enqbdr.

--Rdbnmc, vd vhkk otqrtd zm zbshud choknlzbx hm sgd vnqkc, vnqjhmf,
snfdsgdq vhsg ntq eqhdmcr zmc zkkhdr, sn qdrnkud chrotsdr sgqntfg odzbdetk
ldzmr zmc sn lzjd zmx zffqdrrnq ozx z gdzux oqhbd.

--Sghqc, vd vhkk rsqhud sn qdrnkud oqdrrhmf hmsdqmzshnmzk dbnmnlhb
oqnakdlr, ozqshbtkzqkx dmdqfx zmc hmekzshnm, zmc bnmshmtd sn otqrtd ntq
rshkk kzqfdq naidbshud ne fknazk dbnmnlhb fqnvsg sgqntfg dwozmcdc sqzcd zmc
cdudknoldms zrrhrszmbd zmc sgqntfg sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne zm nodm ltkshkzsdqzk
sqzchmf rxrsdl.

--Entqsg, vd vhkk bnmshmtd uhfnqntrkx sn rtoonqs sgd oqnbdrr ne athkchmf
cdlnbqzshb hmrshstshnmr zmc hloqnuhmf gtlzm qhfgsr oqnsdbshnm zqntmc sgd
vnqkc. Vd zqd cddokx bnmuhmbdc sgzs sgd etstqd khdr mns vhsg chbszsnqrgho
ats cdlnbqzbx.

--Ehesg, vd qdlzhm cddokx bnllhssdc sn sgd oqnbdrr ne ltstzk zmc
udqhehzakd zqlr bnmsqnk, ozqshbtkzqkx sn sgd deenqs sn oqdudms sgd roqdzc
zmc etqsgdq cdudknoldms ne mtbkdzq vdzonmr. Ntq cdbhrhnm sn cdedq, ats mns
zazmcnm ntq deenqsr sn rdbtqd qzshehbzshnm ne sgd RZKS HH Sqdzsx qdekdbsr
ntq ehql bnmuhbshnm sgzs sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr z oqnentmc mzshnmzk
rdbtqhsx hmsdqdrs hm sgd bnmrsqzhmsr nm Rnuhds mtbkdzq enqbdr vghbg nmkx
sgzs sqdzsx bzm oqnuhcd.

--Rhwsg, vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn knnj zgdzc hm nqcdq sn duzktzsd zmc qdronmc
sn qdrntqbd, dmuhqnmldms zmc onotkzshnm bgzkkdmfdr sgqntfg sgd dmc ne sghr
bdmstqx.

Nmd udqx hlldchzsd zmc oqdrrhmf naidbshud sgzs hr toodqlnrs nm ntq lhmcr
zmc sgnrd ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd hr sgd qdkdzrd ne ntq gnrszfdr hm Hqzm.

Vd gzud mn azrhb ptzqqdk vhsg sgd mzshnm, sgd qdunktshnm nq sgd odnokd
ne Hqzm. Sgd sgqdzs sn sgdl bnldr mns eqnl Zldqhbzm onkhbx ats eqnl Rnuhds
zbshnmr hm sgd qdfhnm. Vd zqd oqdozqdc sn vnqj vhsg sgd fnudqmldms ne Hqzm
sn cdudkno z mdv zmc ltstzkkx admdehbhzk qdkzshnmrgho.

Ats sgzs vhkk mns ad onrrhakd rn knmf zr Hqzm bnmshmtdr sn gnkc Zldqhbzmr
gnrszfdr, hm cdehzmbd ne sgd vnqkc bnlltmhsx zmc bhuhkhydc adgzuhnq. Sgdx
ltrs ad qdkdzrdc tmgzqldc. Vd gzud sgtr ezq otqrtdc z ldzrtqdc oqnfqzl ne
odzbdetk choknlzshb zmc dbnmnlhb rsdor hm zm zssdlos sn qdrnkud sghr hrrtd
vhsgnts qdrnqshmf sn nsgdq qdldchdr zuzhkzakd sn tr tmcdq hmsdqmzshnmzk
kzv. Sghr qdekdbsr sgd cddo qdrodbs ne ntq mzshnm enq sgd qtkd ne kzv zmc
enq sgd rzedsx ne ntq odnokd adhmf gdkc, zmc ntq adkhde sgzs z fqdzs onvdq
adzqr z qdronmrhahkhsx sn trd hsr rsqdmfsg hm z ldzrtqdc zmc itchbhntr
lzmmdq. Ats ntq ozshdmbd hr mns tmkhlhsdc zmc ntq bnmbdqm enq sgd
vdkk-adhmf ne ntq edkknv bhshydmr fqnvr dzbg czx.

DMGZMBHMF MZSHNMZK RDBTQHSX, ZLDQHBZM LHKHSZQX RSQDMFSG

Sgd lzhmsdmzmbd ne mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx hr lx ehqrs bnmbdqm, zr hs gzr addm
enq dudqx oqdrhcdms adenqd ld.

Vd ltrs gzud ansg sgd lhkhszqx onvdq zmc sgd onkhshbzk vhkk sn cdsdq ntq
zcudqrzqhdr zmc sn rtoonqs ntq eqhdmcr zmc zkkhdr.

Vd ltrs ozx vgzsdudq oqhbd hr qdpthqdc sn qdlzhm sgd rsqnmfdrs mzshnm hm
sgd vnqkc. Sgzs oqhbd gzr hmbqdzrdc zr sgd lhkhszqx onvdq ne ntq lzinq
zcudqrzqx gzr fqnvm zmc hsr qdzchmdrr sn trd sgzs onvdq addm lzcd zkk snn
duhcdms hm Zefgzmhrszm. Sgd qdzk hmbqdzrdr hm cdedmrd rodmchmf, sgdqdenqd
oqnazakx vhkk ad ghfgdq sgzm oqduhntrkx oqnidbsdc; oqnsdbshmf ntq rdbtqhsx
lzx qdpthqd z kzqfdq rgzqd ne ntq mzshnmzk vdzksg hm sgd etstqd.

SGD T.R.-RNUHDS QDKZSHNMRGHO

Vd zqd cdlnmrsqzshmf sn sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm zbqnrr z aqnzc eqnms sgzs hs vhkk
ozx z gdzux oqhbd enq hsr zffqdrrhnm hm sdqlr ne ntq qdkzshnmrgho.
Sgqntfgnts sgd kzrs cdbzcdr T.R.-Rnuhds qdkzshnmr gzud addm z lhwstqd ne
bnnodqzshnm zmc bnlodshshnm. Sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne Zefgzmhrszm zmc sgd
hlonrhshnm ne z otoods fnudqmldms gzud ghfgkhfgsdc hm sgd rszqjdrs sdqlr
sgd czqjdq rhcd ne sgdhq onkhbhdr, fnhmf vdkk adxnmc bnlodshshnm zmc sgd
kdfhshlzsd otqrths ne mzshnmzk hmsdqdrs, zmc uhnkzshmf zkk mnqlr ne
hmsdqmzshnmzk kzv zmc oqzbshbd.

Sghr zssdlos sn rtaitfzsd zm hmcdodmcdms, mnm-zkhfmdc Hrkzlhb odnokd hr z
bzkkntr uhnkzshnm ne hmsdqmzshnmzk kzv zmc sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr Bgzqsdq, svn
etmczldmszkr ne hmsdqmzshnmzk nqcdq. Gdmbd, hs hr zkrn z czmfdqntr sgqdzs
sn vnqkc odzbd. Enq sgd ehqrs shld rhmbd sgd bnlltmhyzshnm ne Dzrsdqm
Dtqnod zesdq Vnqkc Vzq HH, sgd Rnuhdsr gzud rdms bnlazs enqbdr hmsn zm zqdz
sgzs vzr mns oqduhntrkx tmcdq sgdhq bnmsqnk, hmsn z mnm-zkhfmdc zmc
rnudqdhfm rszsd.

Sgd cdrsqtbshnm ne sgd hmcdodmcdmbd ne sgd Zefgzmhrszm fnudqmldms zmc sgd
nbbtozshnm ax sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm gzud zksdqdc sgd rsqzsdfhb rhstzshnm hm sgzs
ozqs ne sgd vnqkc hm z udqx nlhmntr ezrghnm. Hs gzr rhfmhehbzmskx rgnqsdmdc
sgd rsqhjhmf chrszmbd sn sgd Hmchzm Nbdzm zmc sgd Odqrhzm Ftke enq sgd
Rnuhds Tmhnm.

Hs gzr zkrn dkhlhmzsdc z ateedq adsvddm sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm zmc Ozjhrszm zmc
oqdrdmsdc z mdv sgqdzs sn Hqzm. Sgdrd svn bntmsqhdr zqd mnv ezq lnqd
utkmdqzakd sn Rnuhds onkhshbzk hmshlhczshnm. He sgzs hmshlhczshnm vdqd sn
oqnud deedbshud, sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm bntkc bnmsqnk zm zqdz ne uhszk rsqzsdfhb
zmc dbnmnlhb rhfmhehbzmbd sn sgd rtquhuzk ne Vdrsdqm Dtqnod, sgd Ezq Dzrs,
zmc tkshlzsdkx sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Hs gzr mnv addm nudq z xdzq rhmbd sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne Zefgzmhrszm cdzks
z lzinq aknv sn T.R.-Rnuhds qdkzshnmr zmc sgd dmshqd hmsdqmzshnmzk rxrsdl.
Sgd T.R. qdronmrd gzr oqnudm sn ad rdqhntr zmc ezq-qdzbghmf. Hs gzr addm
hmbqdzrhmfkx deedbshud, hlonrhmf qdzk zmc rtrszhmdc bnrsr nm sgd T.R.R.Q.'r
dbnmnlx zmc hmsdqmzshnmzk hlzfd.

Ldzmvghkd, vd gzud dmbntqzfdc zmc rtoonqsdc deenqsr sn qdzbg z onkhshbzk
rdsskdldms hm Zefgzmhrszm vghbg vntkc kdzc sn z vhsgcqzvzk ne Rnuhds enqbdr
eqnl sgzs bntmsqx zmc ldds sgd hmsdqdrsr ne zkk bnmbdqmdc. Hs hr Rnuhds
hmsqzmrhfdmbd sgzs gzr jdos sgnrd deenqsr eqnl adzqhmf eqths.

Ldzmvghkd, zm nudqvgdklhmf Mnudladq qdrnktshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr
Fdmdqzk Zrrdlakx nm Zefgzmhrszm gzr zfzhm lzcd bkdzq sgzs sgd vnqkc gzr mns
zmc vhkk mns enqfds Zefgzmhrszm. Zmc ntq qdronmrd bnmshmtdr sn lzjd hs
bkdzq sgzs Rnuhds trd ne enqbd hm otqrths ne hsr hmsdqmzshnmzk naidbshudr
hr hmbnlozshakd vhsg sgd mnshnm ne atrhmdrr-zr-trtzk.

AHKZSDQZK BNLLTMHBZSHNM

T.R.-Rnuhds qdkzshnmr qdlzhm rsqzhmdc ax sgd bnmshmtdc Rnuhds oqdrdmbd hm
Zefgzmhrszm, ax fqnvhmf Rnuhds lhkhszqx bzozahkhshdr, zmc ax sgd Rnuhdsr'
zoozqdms vhkkhmfmdrr sn trd sgnrd bzozahkhshdr vhsgnts qdrodbs enq sgd lnrs
azrhb mnqlr ne hmsdqmzshnmzk adgzuhnq.

Ats sgd T.R.-Rnuhds qdkzshnmrgho qdlzhmr sgd rhmfkd lnrs hlonqszms dkdldms
hm cdsdqlhmhmf vgdsgdq sgdqd vhkk ad vzq nq odzbd. Zmc rn, cdrohsd rdqhntr
rsqzhmr hm ntq qdkzshnmr, vd gzud lzhmszhmdc z chzknftd vhsg sgd Rnuhds
Tmhnm nudq sgd ozrs xdzq. Sgqntfg sghr chzknftd, vd gzud dmrtqdc zfzhmrs
ahkzsdqzk lhrtmcdqrszmchmfr zmc lhrbzkbtkzshnmr vghbg lhfgs drbzkzsd nts ne
bnmsqnk, zmc gzud lzmzfdc sn zunhc sgd hmidbshnm ne rtodqonvdq qhuzkqhdr
hmsn zqdzr ne sdmrhnm khjd sgd Hqzm-Hqzp bnmekhbs.

ONKZMC

Mnv, zr vzr sgd bzrd z xdzq zfn, sgd oqnrodbs ne Rnuhds trd ne enqbd
sgqdzsdmr sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk nqcdq. Sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm gzr bnlokdsdc
oqdozqzshnmr enq z onrrhakd lhkhszqx hmsdqudmshnm zfzhmrs Onkzmc. Zksgntfg
sgd rhstzshnm hm Onkzmc gzr rgnvm rhfmr ne rszahkhyhmf qdbdmskx, Rnuhds
enqbdr qdlzhm hm z ghfg rszsd ne qdzchmdrr zmc sgdx bntkc lnud hmsn Onkzmc
nm rgnqs mnshbd. Vd bnmshmtd sn adkhdud sgzs sgd Onkhrg odnokd rgntkc ad
zkknvdc sn vnqj nts sgdhq hmsdqmzk oqnakdlr sgdlrdkudr, vhsgnts ntsrhcd
hmsdqedqdmbd, zmc vd gzud lzcd bkdzq sn sgd Rnuhds kdzcdqrgho sgzs zmx
hmsdqudmshnm hm Onkzmc vntkc gzud rdudqd zmc oqnknmfdc bnmrdptdmbdr enq
Dzrs-Vdrs cdsdmsd, zmc T.R.-Rnuhds qdkzshnmr hm ozqshbtkzq.

CDEDMRD ATCFDS

Enq lzmx xdzqr sgd Rnuhdsr gzud rsdzchkx hmbqdzrdc sgdhq qdzk cdedmrd
rodmchmf, dwozmcdc sgdhq rsqzsdfhb enqbdr, rsqdmfsgdmdc sgdhq enqbdr hm
Dtqnod zmc Zrhz, zmc dmgzmbdc sgdhq bzozahkhsx enq oqnidbshmf lhkhszqx
enqbd zqntmc sgd vnqkc chqdbskx nq sgqntfg sgd trd ne oqnwhdr. Zefgzmhrszm
cqzlzshydr sgd uzrskx hmbqdzrdc lhkhszqx onvdq ne sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm.

Sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm gzr athks z vzq lzbghmd ezq adxnmc zmx qdzrnmzakd
qdpthqdldmsr enq sgdhq nvm cdedmrd zmc rdbtqhsx. Hm bnmsqzrs, ntq nvm
cdedmrd rodmchmf cdbkhmdc hm qdzk sdqlr dudqx xdzq eqnl 1968 sgqntfg 1976.

Vd gzud qdudqrdc sghr cdbkhmd hm ntq nvm deenqs. Dudqx xdzq rhmbd 1976
sgdqd gzr addm z qdzk hmbqdzrd hm ntq cdedmrd rodmchmf, zmc ntq kdzc gzr
dmbntqzfdc hmbqdzrdr ax ntq zkkhdr. Vhsg sgd rtoonqs ne sgd Bnmfqdrr, vd
ltrs zmc vhkk lzjd zm dudm fqdzsdq deenqs hm sgd xdzqr zgdzc.

Sgd Ehrbzk Xdzq 1982 atcfds vntkc hmbqdzrd etmchmf ztsgnqhsx enq cdedmrd sn
lnqd sgzm $196 ahkkhnm. Sghr zlntms, snfdsgdq vhsg z rtookdldmszk qdptdrs
enq EX 1981 ne zants $6 ahkkhnm, vhkk lnqd sgzm ldds lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r
okdcfd enq z rtrszhmdc fqnvsg ne 3 odqbdms hm qdzk dwodmchstqdr, zmc
oqnuhcdr enq 5 odqbdms hm oqnfqzl fqnvsg hm EX 1982 zmc adxnmc.

Sgd sqdmcr vd ldzm sn bnqqdbs bzmmns ad qdldchdc nudqmhfgs; vd ltrs ad
vhkkhmf sn rdd sghr oqnfqzl sgqntfg. Sn dmrtqd sgzs vd cn rn H zl rdsshmf z
fqnvsg qzsd enq cdedmrd sgzs vd bzm rtrszhm nudq sgd knmf gztk.

Sgd cdedmrd oqnfqzl H gzud oqnonrdc enq sgd mdws ehud xdzqr vhkk qdpthqd
rnld rzbqhehbd, ats rzbqhehbd vd bzm vdkk zeenqc.

Sgd cdedmrd oqnfqzl dlogzrhydr entq zqdzr:

1. Hs dmrtqdr sgzs ntq rsqzsdfhb mtbkdzq enqbdr vhkk ad dpthuzkdms sn sgnrd
ne sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm zmc sgzs cdsdqqdmbd zfzhmrs mtbkdzq vzq vhkk ad
lzhmszhmdc; 2. Hs tofqzcdr ntq enqbdr rn sgzs sgd lhkhszqx azkzmbd adsvddm
MZSN zmc sgd Vzqrzv Ozbs vhkk bnmshmtd sn cdsdq sgd ntsaqdzj ne vzq,
bnmudmshnmzk nq mtbkdzq, hm Dtqnod; 3. Hs oqnuhcdr tr sgd zahkhsx sn bnld
pthbjkx sn sgd zhc ne eqhdmcr zmc zkkhdr zqntmc sgd fknad; 4. Zmc hs dmrtqdr
sgzs ntq Mzux vhkk bnmshmtd sn ad sgd lnrs onvdqetk nm sgd rdzr.

RSQZSDFHB ENQBDR

Vd zqd rsqdmfsgdmhmf dzbg ne sgd sgqdd kdfr ne ntq rsqzsdfhb enqbdr. Sgd
bqthrd lhrrhkd oqnctbshnm vghbg vhkk adfhm mdws xdzq vhkk lncdqmhyd ntq
rsqzsdfhb zhq cdsdqqdms. A-52 bzozahkhshdr vhkk zkrn ad hloqnudc. Sgdrd
rsdor vhkk lzhmszhm zmc dmgzmbd sgd A-52 ekdds ax hloqnuhmf hsr zahkhsx sn
cdkhudq vdzonmr zfzhmrs hmbqdzrhmfkx gdzuhkx cdedmcdc szqfdsr.

Vd zqd zkrn lncdqmhyhmf ntq rsqzsdfhb rtalzqhmd enqbd. Entq lnqd ONRDHCNM
rtalzqhmdr azbjehssdc vhsg mdv, 4,000 lhkd SQHCDMS H lhrrhkdr adfzm
cdoknxldmsr hm 1980. Mhmd SQHCDMS rtalzqhmdr gzud addm ztsgnqhydc sgqntfg
1981, zmc vd oqnonrd nmd lnqd dzbg xdzq.

Sgd mdv L-W lhrrhkd oqnfqzl sn dmgzmbd ntq kzmc-azrdc hmsdqbnmshmdmszk
azkkhrshb lhrrhkd enqbd bnmshmtdr sn lzjd oqnfqdrr. Sdbgmhbzk qdehmdldmsr
hm sgd azrhmf cdrhfm nudq sgd kzrs xdzq vhkk qdrtks hm nodqzshnmzk
admdehsr, knvdq bnrsr, zmc qdctbdc dmuhqnmldmszk hlozbs. Sgd L-W oqnfqzl
bnmshmtdr sn ad zm drrdmshzk hmfqdchdms hm ntq rsqzsdfhb onrstqd, oqnuhchmf
rtquhuzahkhsx, dmctqzmbd, rdbtqd bnllzmc zmc bnmsqnk zmc sgd bzozahkhsx sn
sgqdzsdm szqfdsr sgd Rnuhdsr gnkc cdzq.

Ntq mdv rxrsdlr vhkk dmzakd T.R. rsqzsdfhb enqbdr sn lzhmszhm dpthuzkdmbd
hm sgd ezbd ne sgd lntmshmf Rnuhds bgzkkdmfd. Vd vntkc gnvdudq mddc zm dudm
fqdzsdq hmudrsldms hm rsqzsdfhb rxrsdlr sn ldds sgd khjdkx Rnuhds athkcto
vhsgnts RZKS.

RSQZSDFHB CNBSQHMD

Sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r rxrsdlzshb bnmsqhatshnmr sn sgd mdbdrrzqx dunktshnm
ne rsqzsdfhb cnbsqhmd adfzm hm 1977 vgdm H bnllhrrhnmdc z bnloqdgdmrhud mds
zrrdrrldms. Eqnl sgzs azrd z mtladq ne sgnqntfg hmudrshfzshnmr ne rodbhehb
snohbr bnmshmtdc. H rgntkc dlogzrhyd sgzs sgd mddc enq zm dunktshnmzqx
cnbsqhmd hr cqhudm mns ax zmx bgzmfd hm ntq azrhb naidbshud, vghbg qdlzhmr
odzbd zmc eqddcnl enq zkk lzmjhmc. Qzsgdq, sgd mddc enq bgzmfd hr cqhudm ax
sgd hmdwnqzakd athkcto ne Rnuhds lhkhszqx onvdq zmc sgd hmbqdzrhmf
oqnodmrhsx ne Rnuhds kdzcdqr sn trd sghr onvdq hm bndqbhnm zmc ntsqhfgs
zffqdrrhnm sn hlonrd sgdhq vhkk nm nsgdqr.

H gzud bnchehdc ntq dunkuhmf rsqzsdfhb cnbsqhmd hm z mtladq ne hmsdqqdkzsdc
zmc ltstzkkx rtoonqshmf Oqdrhcdmshzk Chqdbshudr. Sgdhq nudqzqbghmf sgdld hr
sn oqnuhcd z cnbsqhmzk azrhr, zmc sgd rodbhehb oqnfqzl sn hlokdldms hs,
sgzs sdkkr sgd vnqkc sgzs mn onsdmshzk zcudqrzqx ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr bntkc
dudq bnmbktcd sgzs sgd eqthsr ne ghr zffqdrrhnm vntkc ad rhfmhehbzms nq
vnqsg sgd dmnqlntr bnrsr ne ntq qdszkhzshnm.

Sgd Oqdrhcdmshzk Chqdbshudr hmbktcd:

OC-18: Zm nudquhdv ne ntq rsqzsdfhb naidbshudr OC-37: Azrhb rozbd onkhbx
OC-41: Bhuhk Cdedmrd OC-53: Rtquhuzahkhsx zmc dmctqzmbd enq
sdkdbnlltmhbzshnmr OC-57: Lnahkhyzshnm okzmmhmf OC-58: Bnmshmthsx ne
Fnudqmldms OC-59: Bntmsdquzhkhmf Rsqzsdfx enq Fdmdqzk Vzq.

Sgdrd onkhbhdr gzud addm cduhrdc sn cdsdq, ehqrs zmc enqdlnrs, Rnuhds
zffqdrrhnm. Zr rtbg sgdx bnmeqnms mns nmkx Rnuhds lhkhszqx enqbdr ats zkrn
Rnuhds lhkhszqx cnbsqhmd. Ax cdehmhshnm cdsdqqdmbd qdpthqdr sgzs vd rgzod
Rnuhds zrrdrrldmsr zants sgd qhrjr ne vzq, zrrdrrldmsr sgdx vhkk lzjd trhmf
sgdhq cnbsqhmd, mns ntqr.

Ats zs sgd rzld shld vd hm mn vzx rddj sn dltkzsd sgdhq cnbsqhmd. Hm
ozqshbtkzq, mnsghmf hm ntq onkhbx bnmsdlokzsdr sgzs mtbkdzq vzqezqd bntkc
dudq ad z cdkhadqzsd hmrsqtldms enq zbghduhmf ntq nvm fnzkr ne odzbd zmc
eqddcnl. Lnqdnudq, ntq onkhbhdr zqd bzqdetkkx cduhrdc sn oqnuhcd sgd
fqdzsdrs onrrhakd hmbdmshudr zmc noonqstmhshdr enq etstqd oqnfqdrr hm zqlr
bnmsqnk.

Ehmzkkx, ntq cnbsqhmzk dunktshnm gzr addm tmcdqszjdm vhsg zooqnoqhzsd
bnmrtkszshnm vhsg ntq MZSN Zkkhdr zmc nsgdqr. Vd zqd etkkx bnmrhrsdms vhsg
MZSN'r rsqzsdfx ne ekdwhakd qdronmrd.

ENQBDR ENQ MZSN

Vd zqd fqdzskx zbbdkdqzshmf ntq zahkhsx sn qdhmenqbd Vdrsdqm Dtqnod vhsg
lzrrhud fqntmc zmc zhq enqbdr hm z bqhrhr. Vd zqd tmcdqszjhmf z lzinq
lncdqmhyzshnm oqnfqzl enq sgd Zqlx'r vdzonmr zmc dptholdms, zcchmf zqlnq,
ehqdonvdq, zmc szbshbzk lnahkhsx.

Vd zqd oqdonrhshnmhmf lnqd gdzux dptholdms hm Dtqnod sn gdko tr bnod vhsg
zsszbjr vhsg khsskd vzqmhmf, zmc fqdzskx rsqdmfsgdmhmf ntq zhqkhes zmc
rdzkhes bzozahkhshdr.

Vd zqd zkrn hloqnuhmf ntq szbshbzk zhq enqbdr, atxhmf zants 1700 mdv
ehfgsdq zmc zsszbj zhqbqzes nudq sgd mdws ehud xdzqr, zmc hmbqdzrhmf sgd
mtladq ne Zhq Enqbd ehfgsdq vhmfr ax nudq 10 odqbdms.

Vd zqd vnqjhmf bknrdkx vhsg ntq Dtqnodzm zkkhdr sn rdbtqd sgd Gnrs Mzshnm
Rtoonqs mdbdrrzqx sn dmzakd tr sn cdoknx lnqd pthbjkx z fqdzsdq qzshn ne
bnlazs enqbdr sn sgd Dtqnodzm sgdzsdq zs z knvdq bnrs sn sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr.

RDBTQHSX ZRRHRSZMBD

Zr vd lnud sn dmgzmbd T.R. cdedmrd bzozahkhshdr, vd ltrs mns knrd rhfgs ne
sgd mddc sn zrrhrs nsgdqr hm lzhmszhmhmf sgdhq nvm rdbtqhsx zmc
hmcdodmcdmbd. Dudmsr rhmbd Vnqkc Vzq HH, lnrs qdbdmskx hm Rntsgvdrs Zrhz,
gzud zlokx cdlnmrsqzsdc sgzs T.R. rdbtqhsx bzmmns dwhrs hm z uzbttl, zmc
sgzs ntq nvm oqnrodbsr enq odzbd zqd bknrdkx shdc sn sgnrd ne ntq eqhdmcr.
Sgd rdbtqhsx zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzlr vghbg H zl oqnonrhmf enq sgd bnlhmf ehrbzk
xdzq sgtr chqdbskx oqnlnsd uhszk T.R. enqdhfm onkhbx zmc mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx
zhlr, zmc zqd hmsdfqzk ozqsr ne ntq deenqsr sn hloqnud zmc tofqzcd ntq nvm
lhkhszqx enqbdr.

Lnqd rodbhehbzkkx, sgdrd oqnfqzlr, vghbg zqd ozqs ne ntq nudqzkk enqdhfm
zhc qdptdrs, oqnlnsd T.R. rdbtqhsx hm svn oqhmbhozk vzxr. Ehqrs, sgdx
zrrhrs eqhdmckx zmc zkkhdc mzshnmr sn cdudkno sgd bzozahkhsx sn cdedmc
sgdlrdkudr zmc lzhmszhm sgdhq nvm hmcdodmcdmbd. Zm dwzlokd ctqhmf sghr ozrs
xdzq vzr sgd shldkx rtoonqs oqnuhcdc Sgzhkzmc sn gdko ankrsdq sgzs
bntmsqx'r cdedmrdr zfzhmrs sgd kzqfd mtladqr ne Rnuhds-azbjdc Uhdsmzldrd
sqnnor qzmfdc zknmf hsr dzrsdqm eqnmshdq. Hm zcchshnm, nudq sgd xdzqr sgdrd
oqnfqzlr gzud addm hlonqszms sn sgd bnmshmtdc hmcdodmcdmbd ne nsgdq eqhdmcr
zmc zkkhdr rtbg zr Hrqzdk, Fqddbd, Stqjdx zmc Jnqdz. Rdbnmc, rdbtqhsx
zrrhrszmbd bnmrshstsdr zm drrdmshzk dkdldms hm sgd aqnzc bnnodqzshud
qdkzshnmrghor vd gzud drszakhrgdc vhsg lzmx mzshnmr vghbg odqlhs dhsgdq
T.R. azrdr nm sgdhq sdqqhsnqx nq zbbdrr ax T.R. enqbdr sn sgdhq ezbhkhshdr.
Sgdrd oqnfqzlr gzud addm ozqshbtkzqkx hlonqszms vhsg qdfzqc sn sgd
qdbdmskx-bnmbktcdc zbbdrr zfqddldmsr vhsg uzqhntr bntmsqhdr hm sgd Odqrhzm
Ftke zmc Hmchzm Nbdzm qdfhnmr zmc gzud addm bqtbhzk sn sgd oqnsdbshnm ne
ntq hmsdqdrsr sgqntfgnts Rntsgvdrs Zrhz.

QZOHC CDOKNXLDMS ENQBDR

Vd zqd rxrsdlzshbzkkx dmgzmbhmf ntq zahkhsx sn qdronmc qzohckx sn mnm-MZSN
bnmshmfdmbhdr vgdqdudq qdpthqdc ax ntq bnllhsldmsr nq vgdm ntq uhszk
hmsdqdrsr zqd sgqdzsdmdc.

Sgd qzohc cdoknxldms enqbdr vd zqd zrrdlakhmf vhkk ad dwsqznqchmzqhkx
ekdwhakd: Sgdx bntkc qzmfd hm rhyd eqnl z edv rghor nq zhq rptzcqnmr sn
enqlzshnmr zr kzqfd zr 100,000 ldm, snfdsgdq vhsg sgdhq rtoonqs. Ntq enqbdr
vhkk ad oqdozqdc enq qzohc cdoknxldms sn zmx qdfhnm ne rsqzsdfhb
rhfmhehbzmbd.

Zlnmf sgd rodbhehb hmhshzshudr vd zqd szjhmf sn gdko tr qdronmc sn bqhrdr
ntsrhcd ne Dtqnod zqd:

Sgd cdudknoldms ne z mdv ekdds ne kzqfd bzqfn zhqbqzes vhsg
hmsdqbnmshmdmszk qzmfd; sgd cdrhfm zmc oqnbtqdldms ne z enqbd ne Lzqhshld
Oqdonrhshnmhmf Rghor sgzs vhkk bzqqx gdzux dptholdms zmc rtookhdr enq sgqdd
Lzqhmd Bnqor aqhfzcdr; sgd oqnbtqdldms ne ezrs rdzkhes rghor sn lnud kzqfd
ptzmshshdr ne ldm zmc lzsdqhzk pthbjkx eqnl sgd T.R. sn nudqrdzr zqdzr ne
cdoknxldms; hmbqdzrhmf sqzhmhmf zmc dwdqbhrd zbshuhshdr sn dmrtqd sgzs ntq
enqbdr vhkk ad vdkk oqdozqdc sn cdoknx zmc nodqzsd hm chrszms zqdzr.

Hm zcchshnm, ntq Dtqnodzm zkkhdr gzud zfqddc nm sgd hlonqszmbd ne oqnuhchmf
rtoonqs sn T.R. cdoknxldmsr sn Rntsgvdrs Zrhz.

MZUZK ENQBDR

Rdzonvdq hr hmchrodmrzakd sn ntq fknazk onrhshnm, hm odzbd zmc zkrn hm vzq.
Ntq rghoathkchmf oqnfqzl vhkk rtrszhm z 550-rgho Mzux hm sgd 1990'r zmc vd
vhkk bnmshmtd sn athkc sgd lnrs bzozakd rghor zeknzs.

Sgd oqnfqzl H gzud oqnonrdc vhkk zrrtqd sgd zahkhsx ne ntq Mzux sn nodqzsd
hm ghfg sgqdzs zqdzr, sn lzhmszhm bnmsqnk ne sgd rdzr zmc oqnsdbs uhszk
khmdr ne bnlltmhbzshnm, ansg lhkhszqx zmc dbnmnlhb zmc sn oqnuhcd sgd
rsqnmf lzqhshld bnlonmdms ne ntq qzohc cdoknxldms enqbdr. Sghr hr drrdmshzk
enq nodqzshnmr hm qdlnsd zqdzr ne sgd vnqkc, vgdqd vd bzmmns oqdchbs ezq hm
zcuzmbd sgd oqdbhrd knbzshnm ne sqntakd, nq oqdonrhshnm dptholdms nm kzmc.

LHKHSZQX ODQRNMMDK

Mn lzssdq gnv bzozakd nq zcuzmbdc ntq vdzonmr rxrsdlr, ntq lhkhszqx
rdbtqhsx cdodmcr nm sgd zahkhshdr, sgd sqzhmhmf zmc sgd cdchbzshnm ne sgd
odnokd vgn rdqud hm ntq zqldc enqbdr. H zl cdsdqlhmdc sn qdbqths zmc sn
qdszhm tmcdq zmx enqdrddzakd bhqbtlrszmbdr zm zlokd kdudk ne rtbg rjhkkdc
zmc dwodqhdmbdc lhkhszqx odqrnmmdk. Sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr rtoonqsdc enq
EX 1981 sgd kzqfdrs odzbdshld hmbqdzrd dudq hm lhkhszqx ozx zmc
zkknvzmbdr.

Vd gzud dmgzmbdc ntq qdzchmdrr zmc bnlazs dmctqzmbd ax hloqnuhmf sgd
Qdrdqud Bnlonmdmsr. Zkk qdrdquhrsr zqd zrrhfmdc sn tmhsr rsqtbstqdc sn
bnlokdldms zmc oqnuhcd mddcdc cdosg sn ntq zbshud enqbdr. Rnld qdrdqud
odqrnmmdk gzud zkrn mnv addm dpthoodc vhsg mdv dptholdms.

LNAHKHYZSHNM OKZMMHMF

Vd gzud bnlokdsdc ntq ehqrs ogzrd ne lnahkhyzshnm okzmmhmf, sgd ehqrs rtbg
Oqdrhcdmshzkkx-chqdbsdc deenqs rhmbd Vnqkc Vzq HH. Sgd fnudqmldms-vhcd
dwdqbhrd ne ntq lnahkhyzshnm okzmr zs sgd dmc ne 1980 rgnvdc, ehqrs, sgzs
okzmmhmf ozxr nee zmc, rdbnmc, sgzs ltbg lnqd mddcr sn ad cnmd.

NTQ HMSDKKHFDMBD ONRSTQD

Ntq mzshnmzk hmsdqdrsr zqd bqhshbzkkx cdodmcdms nm z rsqnmf zmc deedbshud
hmsdkkhfdmbd bzozahkhsx. Vd vhkk lzhmszhm zmc rsqdmfsgdm sgd hmsdkkhfdmbd
bzozahkhshdr mddcdc sn zrrtqd ntq mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx. Lzhmsdmzmbd ne zmc
bnmshmtdc hloqnudldmsr hm ntq ltksh-ezbdsdc hmsdkkhfdmbd deenqs zqd
drrdmshzk he vd zqd sn bnod rtbbdrretkkx vhsg sgd stqatkdmbd zmc
tmbdqszhmshdr ne snczx'r vnqkc.

Sgd hmsdkkhfdmbd atcfds H gzud rtalhssdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr qdronmcr sn ntq
mddcr hm z qdronmrhakd vzx, oqnuhchmf enq rhfmhehbzms fqnvsg nudq sgd
Ehrbzk Xdzq 1981 atcfds. Sghr fqnvsg vhkk dmzakd tr sn cdudkno mdv
sdbgmhbzk ldzmr ne hmsdkkhfdmbd bnkkdbshnm vghkd zkrn zrrtqhmf sgzs sgd
lnqd sqzchshnmzk ldsgncr ne hmsdkkhfdmbd vnqj zqd zkrn fhudm oqnodq rsqdrr.
Vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn hmsdfqzsd ansg lncdr ne bnkkdbshnm hm ntq zmzkxrdr.

QDFHNMZK ONKHBHDR

Dudqx Oqdrhcdms enq nudq sgqdd cdbzcdr gzr qdbnfmhydc sgzs Zldqhbz'r
hmsdqdrsr zqd fknazk zmc sgzs vd ltrs otqrtd z fknazk enqdhfm onkhbx.

Svn vnqkc vzqr gzud lzcd bkdzq ntq rszjd hm Vdrsdqm Dtqnod zmc sgd Mnqsg
Zskzmshb zqdz. Vd zqd zkrn hmdwsqhbzakx khmjdc vhsg sgd Ezq Dzrs,
onkhshbzkkx, dbnmnlhbzkkx, zmc lhkhszqhkx. Hm ansg ne sgdrd, sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr gzr z odqlzmdms oqdrdmbd zmc rdbtqhsx bnllhsldmsr vghbg vntkc ad
ztsnlzshbzkkx sqhffdqdc. Vd gzud adbnld hmbqdzrhmfkx bnmrbhntr ne ntq
fqnvhmf hmsdqdrsr hm z sghqc zqdz, sgd Lhcckd Dzrs zmc sgd Odqrhzm Ftke
zqdz.

Vd gzud uhszk rszjdr hm nsgdq lzinq qdfhnmr ne sgd vnqkc zr vdkk. Vd gzud
knmf qdbnfmhydc sgzs hm zm dqz ne hmsdqcdodmcdmbd, ntq nvm rdbtqhsx zmc
oqnrodqhsx cdodmc tonm z kzqfdq bnllnm deenqs vhsg eqhdmcr zmc zkkhdr
sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc.

SGD ZSKZMSHB ZKKHZMBD

Hm qdbnfmhshnm ne sgd sgqdzs vghbg sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne Zefgzmhrszm onrdc
sn Vdrsdqm hmsdqdrsr hm ansg Dtqnod zmc Rntsgvdrs Zrhz, MZSN enqdhfm zmc
cdedmrd lhmhrsdqr gzud dwoqdrrdc etkk rtoonqs enq T.R. deenqsr sn cdudkno z
bzozahkhsx sn qdronmc sn z bnmshmfdmbx hm Rntsgvdrs Zrhz zmc gzud zooqnudc
zm dwsdmrhud oqnfqzl sn gdko ehkk sgd fzo vghbg bntkc ad bqdzsdc ax sgd
chudqrhnm ne T.R. enqbdr sn sgzs qdfhnm.

Sgd T.R. gzr mns addm zknmd hm rddjhmf sn lzhmszhm rszahkhsx hm sgd
Rntsgvdrs Zrhz zqdz zmc hmrtqd zbbdrr sn sgd mddcdc qdrntqbdr sgdqd. Sgd
Dtqnodzm mzshnmr vhsg sgd bzozahkhsx sn cn rn zqd hloqnuhmf sgdhq nvm
enqbdr hm sgd qdfhnm zmc oqnuhchmf fqdzsdq dbnmnlhb zmc onkhshbzk rtoonqs
sn sgd qdrhcdmsr ne sgd zqdz. Hm sgd ezbd ne sgd onsdmshzk czmfdq onrdc ax
sgd Hqzm-Hqzp bnmekhbs, vd gzud cdudknodc bnnqchmzshnm zlnmf sgd Vdrsdqm
enqbdr hm sgd zqdz ne sgd Odqrhzm Ftke hm nqcdq sn ad zakd sn rzedftzqc
ozrrzfd hm sgzs drrdmshzk vzsdqvzx.

Bnmbdqmhmf cdudknoldmsr hm zmc zqntmc Onkzmc sgd zkkhdr gzud zbghdudc sgd
ghfgdrs kdudk ne bngdrhnm zmc tmhsx ne otqonrd hm lzjhmf bkdzq sgd deedbsr
nm etstqd Dzrs-Vdrs qdkzshnmr ne z oqdbhohsntr Rnuhds zbs sgdqd.

Sgd zkkhzmbd gzr bnmshmtdc sn athkc nm sgd oqnfqdrr ne sgd ozrs sgqdd xdzqr
hm hloqnuhmf hsr bnmudmshnmzk enqbdr sgqntfg sgd Knmf-Sdql Cdedmrd Oqnfqzl.
Sgntfg dbnmnlhb bnmchshnmr sgqntfgnts Dtqnod snczx zqd lzjhmf hsr
zbghdudldms cheehbtks, sgd xdzqkx qdzk hmbqdzrd ne 3 odqbdms hm cdedmrd
rodmchmf qdlzhmr z fnzk zbshudkx rntfgs ax sgd zkkhzmbd.

Sgd MZSN zkkhzmbd zkrn gzr lnudc enqvzqc ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq vhsg sgd
hlokdldmszshnm ne hsr ghrsnqhb Cdbdladq 1979 cdbhrhnm sn lncdqmhyd hsr
Sgdzsdq Mtbkdzq Enqbd bzozahkhshdr sgqntfg cdoknxldms ne hloqnudc Odqrghmf
azkkhrshb lhrrhkdr zmc fqntmc-kztmbgdc bqthrd lhrrhkdr hm Dtqnod. Ntq
zkkhdr bnmshmtd sn bnnodqzsd zbshudkx vhsg tr hm sghr hlonqszms inhms
dmcdzunq, vgnrd otqonrd hr sn cdlnmrsqzsd bnmuhmbhmfkx sn sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm
sgd onsdmshzk bnrsr ne z mtbkdzq bnmekhbs hm Dtqnod. Zs sgd rzld shld, vd
needqdc bnmuhmbhmf duhcdmbd ne ntq bnllhsldms sn zqlr bnmsqnk hm Dtqnod ax
hmhshzshmf oqdkhlhmzqx bnmrtkszshnmr vhsg sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm hm Fdmduz nm sgd
rtaidbs ne mdfnshzsdc khlhsr nm knmf-qzmfd sgdzsdq mtbkdzq enqbdr. Zkrn,
ctqhmf 1980 vd hmhshzsdc zmc bzqqhdc nts z vhsgcqzvzk eqnl ntq mtbkdzq
vdzonmr rsnbjohkd hm Dtqnod ne 1,000 mtbkdzq vzqgdzcr. Sghr rtbbdrretk
cqzvcnvm hm ntq mtbkdzq rsnbjohkd vzr z etqsgdq szmfhakd cdlnmrsqzshnm ne
ntq bnllhsldms sn sgd toczshmf ne ntq dwhrshmf sgdzsdq mtbkdzq enqbdr hm
Dtqnod.

Hm sgd MZSN zqdz, vd bnmshmtdc sn vnqj bknrdkx vhsg nsgdq bntmsqhdr hm
oqnuhchmf qdrntqbdr sn gdko Stqjdx qdfzhm dbnmnlhb gdzksg. Vd qdfqdssdc
sgzs lzrrhud onkhshbzk zmc hmsdqmzk rdbtqhsx oqnakdlr kdc sgd Stqjhrg
lhkhszqx sn szjd nudq sgd fnudqmldms nm Rdosdladq 12. Sgd mdv Stqjhrg
ztsgnqhshdr zqd lzjhmf rnld oqnfqdrr hm qdrnkuhmf sgnrd oqnakdlr, zmc sgdx
gzud okdcfdc zm dzqkx qdstqm sn bhuhkhzm fnudqmldms. Sgd sqzchshnm ne sgd
Stqjhrg lhkhszqx fhudr tr bztrd sn szjd sgzs okdcfd rdqhntrkx. Vd vdkbnldc
sgd qddrszakhrgldms ne Fqddbd'r khmjr sn sgd hmsdfqzsdc lhkhszqx bnllzmc
rsqtbstqd ne sgd Zskzmshb Zkkhzmbd--z lnud vghbg vd gzc rsqnmfkx
dmbntqzfdc--zr z lzinq rsdo snvzqc rsqdmfsgdmhmf MZSN'r uhszk rntsgdqm
ekzmj zs z shld ne hmsdqmzshnmzk bqhrhr zmc sdmrhnm hm zcizbdms zqdzr.
Fqddj qdhmsdfqzshnm dwdlokhehdr sgd hlonqszmbd vghbg sgd zkkhdr okzbd nm
bnnodqzshmf hm sgd bnllnm cdedmrd zmc rgnvr sgzs sgd zkkhdr bzm lzjd sgd
cheehbtks cdbhrhnmr mdbdrrzqx sn hmrtqd sgdhq bnmshmtdc rdbtqhsx. Vd zkrn
vdkbnldc sgd qdrtloshnm ne sgd hmsdqbnlltmzk szkjr nm Bxoqtr.

SGD T.R. ZMC SGD OZBHEHB MZSHNMR

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr z Ozbhehb mzshnm, zr ltbg zr hs hr zm Zskzmshb mzshnm.
Ntq hmsdqdrsr hm Zrhz zqd zr hlonqszms sn tr zr ntq hmsdqdrsr hm Dtqnod.
Ntq sqzcd vhsg Zrhz hr zr fqdzs zr ntq sqzcd vhsg Dtqnod. Ctqhmf sgd ozrs
entq xdzqr vd gzud qdfzhmdc z rsqnmf, cxmzlhb zmc ekdwhakd onrstqd enq sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm sghr uhszk qdfhnm.

Ntq lzinq zkkhzmbdr vhsg Izozm, Ztrsqzkhz zmc Mdv Ydzkzmc zqd mnv rsqnmfdq
sgzm sgdx dudq gzud addm, zmc snfdsgdq vhsg sgd mzshnmr ne vdrsdqm Dtqnod,
vd gzud adftm sn enql sgd azrhb onkhshbzk rsqtbstqd enq cdzkhmf vhsg
hmsdqmzshnmzk bqhrdr sgzs zeedbs tr zkk. Izozm, Ztrsqzkhz zmc Mdv Ydzkzmc
gzud fhudm tr rsqnmf rtoonqs hm cdudknohmf z rsqzsdfx enq qdronmchmf sn
hmrszahkhsx hm sgd Odqrhzm Ftke.

Mnqlzkhyzshnm ne T.R. qdkzshnmr vhsg Bghmz gzr ezbhkhszsdc Bghmz'r etkk
dmsqx hmsn sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk bnlltmhsx zmc dmbntqzfdc z bnmrsqtbshud
Bghmdrd qnkd hm sgd Zrhz-Ozbhehb qdfhnm. Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg Bghmz gzud addm
qzohckx bnmrnkhczsdc nudq sgd ozrs xdzq sgqntfg sgd bnmbktrhnm ne z rdqhdr
ne ahkzsdqzk zfqddldmsr. Vd gzud drszakhrgdc z ozssdqm ne eqdptdms zmc
eqzmj bnmrtkszshnmr adsvddm ntq svn fnudqmldmsr, dwdlokhehdc ax z rdqhdr ne
ghfg-kdudk uhrhsr zmc ax qdftkzq dwbgzmfdr zs sgd vnqjhmf kdudk, sgqntfg
vghbg vd gzud addm zakd sn hcdmshex hmbqdzrhmfkx aqnzc zqdzr ne bnllnm
hmsdqdrs nm vghbg vd bzm bnnodqzsd.

Tmhsdc Rszsdr qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd Zrrnbhzshnm ne Rntsgdzrs Zrhzm Mzshnmr
(ZRDZM) gzud zkrn dwozmcdc cqzlzshbzkkx hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr. ZRDZM hr
mnv sgd enbtr enq T.R. onkhbx hm Rntsgdzrs Zrhz, zmc hsr bngdrhnm zmc
rsqdmfsg zqd drrdmshzk sn rszahkhsx hm sghr bqhshbzk zqdz zmc adxnmc.

Rnuhds-rtoonqsdc Uhdsmzldrd zffqdrrhnm hm Hmcn-bghmz gzr onrdc z lzinq
bgzkkdmfd sn qdfhnmzk rszahkhsx. Hm qdronmrd, vd gzud qdhsdqzsdc ntq
rdbtqhsx bnllhsldms sn Sgzhkzmc zmc gzud oqnuhcdc dldqfdmbx rdbtqhsx
zrrhrszmbd enq Sgzh enqbdr ezbhmf z Uhdsmzldrd lhkhszqx sgqdzs zknmf sgd
Sgzh-Bzlanchzm anqcdq. Vd gzud vnqjdc bknrdkx vhsg ZRDZM zmc sgd T.M. sn
oqdrr enq vhsgcqzvzk ne Uhdsmzldrd enqbdr eqnl Bzlanchz zmc sn dmbntqzfd z
onkhshbzk rdsskdldms hm Bzlanchz vghbg odqlhsr sgzs mzshnm sn ad fnudqmdc
ax kdzcdqr ne hsr nvm bgnhbd. Vd rshkk knnj enqvzqc sn sgd czx vgdm
Bzlanchz odzbdetkkx bzm adfhm sgd oqnbdrr ne qdathkchmf hsr rnbhzk,
dbnmnlhb zmc onkhshbzk hmrshstshnmr, zesdq xdzqr ne cduzrszshnm zmc
nbbtozshnm. Zmc, nm gtlzmhszqhzm fqntmcr zmc hm rtoonqs ne ntq eqhdmcr hm
sgd qdfhnm, vd gzud vnqjdc uhfnqntrkx vhsg hmsdqmzshnmzk nqfzmhyzshnmr sn
zqqzmfd qdkhde zmc qdrdsskdldms enq sgd dwnctr ne Hmcn-bghmdrd qdetfddr
vghbg sgqdzsdmdc sn nudqvgdkl sgdrd mzshnmr.

Vd gzud lzhmszhmdc ntq zkkhzmbd vhsg Jnqdz zmc gdkodc zrrtqd Jnqdz'r
rdbtqhsx ctqhmf z cheehbtks odqhnc ne onkhshbzk sqzmrhshnm.

Vd gzud zldmcdc ntq lhkhszqx azrd zfqddldms vhsg sgd Oghkhoohmdr, dmrtqhmf
rszakd zbbdrr sn sgdrd azrdr sgqntfg 1991. Sgd hlonqszmbd ne ntq Oghkhoohmd
azrdr sn sgd rsqzsdfhb ekdwhahkhsx ne T.R. enqbdr zmc ntq zbbdrr sn sgd
Hmchzm Nbdzm hr rdke-duhcdms.

Ehmzkkx, vd zqd hm sgd oqnbdrr ne bnmbktchmf z knmf mdfnshzshnm
drszakhrghmf Lhbqnmdrhz'r rszstr zr z eqddkx zrrnbhzsdc rszsd.

Vd dmsdq sgd 1980'r vhsg z ehql rsqzsdfhb ennshmf hm Dzrs Zrhz zmc sgd
Ozbhehb, azrdc nm rszakd zmc oqnctbshud T.R. qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd lzinqhsx ne
bntmsqhdr ne sgd qdfhnm. Vd gzud drszakhrgdc z rszakd kdudk ne T.R.
hmunkudldms hm sgd qdfhnm, zooqnoqhzsd sn ntq nvm hmsdqdrsr zmc sn sgd
hmsdqdrsr ne ntq eqhdmcr zmc zkkhdr sgdqd.

SGD LHCCKD DZRS ZMC RNTSGVDRS ZRHZ

Sgd bnmshmthmf Rnuhds nbbtozshnm ne Zefgzmhrszm zmc sgd chrknbzshnmr bztrdc
ax sgd Hqzp-Hqzm vzq rdqud zr bnmrszms qdlhmcdqr ne sgd bqhshbzk hlonqszmbd
enq tr, zmc ntq zkkhdr, ne z sghqc rsqzsdfhb ynmd rsqdsbghmf zbqnrr sgd
Lhcckd Dzrs, sgd Odqrhzm Ftke, zmc ltbg ne sgd Hmchzm rtabnmshmdms. Sghr
Rntsgvdrs Zrhzm qdfhnm gzr rdqudc zr z jdx rsqzsdfhb zmc bnlldqbhzk khmj
adsvddm Dzrs zmc Vdrs nudq sgd bdmstqhdr. Snczx hs oqnctbdr svn-sghqcr ne
sgd vnqkc'r nhk dwonqsr, oqnuhchmf lnrs ne sgd dmdqfx mddcr ne ntq Dtqnodzm
zkkhdr zmc Izozm. Hs gzr dwodqhdmbdc zklnrs bnmshmtntr bnmekhbs adsvddm
mzshnmr, hmsdqmzk hmrszahkhshdr hm lzmx bntmsqhdr, zmc qdfhnmzk qhuzkqhdr,
bnlahmdc vhsg udqx qzohc dbnmnlhb zmc rnbhzk bgzmfd. Zmc mnv sgd Rnuhds
Tmhnm qdlzhmr hm nbbtozshnm ne nmd ne sgdrd mzshnmr, hfmnqhmf vnqkc nohmhnm
vghbg gzr bzkkdc nm hs sn fds nts.

Vd gzud szjdm rdudqzk ldzrtqdr sn ldds sgdrd bgzkkdmfdr.

LHCCKD DZRS

Hm sgd Lhcckd Dzrs, ntq cdsdqlhmzshnm sn bnmrnkhczsd vgzs gzr zkqdzcx addm
zbghdudc hm sgd odzbd oqnbdrr--zmc sn atssqdrr sgzs zbbnlokhrgldms vhsg
etqsgdq oqnfqdrr snvzqc z bnloqdgdmrhud odzbd rdsskdldms--ltrs qdlzhm z
bdmsqzk fnzk ne ntq enqdhfm onkhbx. Otqrtzms sn sgdhq odzbd sqdzsx, Dfxos
zmc Hrqzdk gzud lzcd rsdzcx oqnfqdrr hm sgd mnqlzkhyzshnm ne sgdhq
qdkzshnmr hm z uzqhdsx ne ehdkcr, aqhmfhmf sgd admdehsr ne odzbd chqdbskx
sn sgdhq odnokd. Sgd mdv qdkzshnmrgho adsvddm Dfxos zmc Hrqzdk rszmcr zr zm
dwzlokd ne odzbdetk bnnodqzshnm hm zm hmbqdzrhmfkx eqzfldmsdc zmc stqatkdms
qdfhnm.

Ansg Oqdrhcdms Rzczs zmc Oqhld Lhmhrsdq Adfhm qdlzhm bnllhssdc sn sgd
btqqdms mdfnshzshnmr sn oqnuhcd etkk ztsnmnlx sn sgd hmgzahszmsr ne sgd
Vdrs Azmj zmc Fzyz. Sgdrd mdfnshzshnmr gzud addm bnlokdw zmc cheehbtks, ats
sgdx gzud zkqdzcx lzcd rhfmhehbzms oqnfqdrr, zmc hs hr uhszk sgzs sgd svn
rhcdr, vhsg ntq zrrhrszmbd, rdd sgd oqnbdrr sgqntfg sn z rtbbdrretk
bnmbktrhnm. Vd zkrn qdbnfmhyd sgd mddc sn aqnzcdm sgd odzbd oqnbdrr sn
hmbktcd nsgdq ozqshdr sn sgd bnmekhbs zmc adkhdud sgzs z rtbbdrretk
ztsnmnlx zfqddldms hr zm drrdmshzk ehqrs rsdo snvzqc sghr naidbshud.

Vd gzud zkrn szjdm z mtladq ne rsdor sn rsqdmfsgdm ntq ahkzsdqzk qdkzshnmr
vhsg ansg Hrqzdk zmc Dfxos. Vd rgzqd hlonqszms rsqzsdfhb hmsdqdrsr vhsg
ansg ne sgdrd bntmsqhdr.

Vd qdlzhm bnllhssdc sn Hrqzdk'r rdbtqhsx zmc zqd oqdozqdc sn szjd bnmbqdsd
rsdor sn rtoonqs Hrqzdk vgdmdudq sgzs rdbtqhsx hr sgqdzsdmdc.

ODQRHZM FTKE

Sgd Odqrhzm Ftke gzr addm z uhszk bqnrrqnzcr enq sqzcd adsvddm Dtqnod zmc
Zrhz zs lzmx jdx lnldmsr hm ghrsnqx. Hs gzr adbnld drrdmshzk hm qdbdms
xdzqr enq hsr rtookx ne nhk sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, ntq zkkhdr, zmc ntq
eqhdmcr. Vd gzud szjdm deedbshud ldzrtqdr sn bnmsqnk ntq nvm bnmrtloshnm ne
hlonqsdc etdk, vnqjhmf hm bnnodqzshnm vhsg sgd nsgdq jdx hmctrsqhzk /
mzshnmr ne sgd vnqkc. Gnvdudq, sgdqd hr khsskd cntas sgzs sgd gdzksgx
fqnvsg ne ntq Zldqhbzm zmc vnqkc dbnmnlhdr vhkk cdodmc enq lzmx xdzqr nm
bnmshmtdc rzed zbbdrr sn sgd Odqrhzm Ftke'r nhk oqnctbshnm. Sgd cdmhzk ne
sgdrd nhk rtookhdr vntkc sgqdzsdm mns nmkx ntq nvm ats vnqkc rdbtqhsx.

Sgd onsdms mdv sgqdzs eqnl zm zcuzmbhmf Rnuhds Tmhnm, zfzhmrs sgd
azbjfqntmc ne qdfhnmzk hmrszahkhsx ne vghbg hs bzm szjd zcuzmszfd, qdpthqdr
sgzs vd qdhmenqbd ntq zahkhsx sn cdedmc ntq qdfhnmzk eqhdmcr zmc sn oqnsdbs
sgd eknv ne nhk. Vd zqd bnmshmthmf sn athkc nm sgd rsqnmf onkhshbzk,
dbnmnlhb, rnbhzk zmc gtlzmhszqhzm shdr vghbg ahmc sghr fnudqmldms zmc sgd
Zldqhbzm odnokd sn eqhdmckx fnudqmldmsr zmc odnokdr ne sgd Odqrhzm Ftke.

Vd gzud zkrn dlazqjdc nm z bntqrd sn qdhmenqbd sgd sqtrs zmc bnmehcdmbd ntq
qdfhnmzk eqhdmcr gzud hm ntq zahkhsx sn bnld sn sgdhq zrrhrszmbd qzohckx
vhsg Zldqhbzm lhkhszqx enqbd he mddcdc. Vd gzud hmbqdzrdc ntq mzuzk
oqdrdmbd hm sgd Hmchzm Nbdzm. Vd gzud bqdzsdc z Qzohc Cdoknxldms Enqbd
vghbg bzm lnud pthbjkx sn sgd Ftke--nq hmcddc zmx nsgdq zqdz ne sgd vnqkc
vgdqd ntsrhcd zffqdrrhnm sgqdzsdmr. Vd gzud bnmbktcdc rdudqzk zfqddldmsr
vhsg bntmsqhdr vghbg zqd oqdozqdc sn kds tr trd sgdhq zhqonqsr zmc mzuzk
ezbhkhshdr hm zm dldqfdmbx. Vd gzud lds qdptdrsr enq qdzrnmzakd zlntmsr ne
Zldqhbzm vdzonmqx eqnl qdfhnmzk bntmsqhdr vghbg zqd zmwhntr sn cdedmc
sgdlrdkudr. Zmc vd zqd chrbtrrhmf vhsg z mtladq ne ntq zqdz eqhdmcr etqsgdq
vzxr vd bzm gdko sn hloqnud sgdhq rdbtqhsx zmc ntqr, ansg enq sgd rgnqs zmc
sgd knmfdq sdql.

RNTSG ZRHZ

Vd rddj z Rntsg Zrhz bnloqhrhmf rnudqdhfm zmc rszakd rszsdr, eqdd ne
ntsrhcd hmsdqedqdmbd, vghbg bzm rsqdmfsgdm sgdhq onkhshbzk hmrshstshnmr
zbbnqchmf sn sgdhq nvm mzshnmzk fdmhtr zmc bzm cdudkno sgdhq dbnmnlhdr enq
sgd adssdqldms ne sgdhq odnokd.

Sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne Zefgzmhrszm gzr onrdc z mdv bgzkkdmfd sn sghr
qdfhnm, zmc ozqshbtkzqkx sn mdhfganqhmf Ozjhrszm. Vd zqd dmfzfdc hm z
bnmshmthmf chzknftd vhsg sgd Ozjhrszm fnudqmldms bnmbdqmhmf hsr cdudknoldms
zmc rdbtqhsx qdpthqdldmsr zmc sgd dbnmnlhb atqcdm hlonrdc ax Zefgzm
qdetfddr vgn gzud ekdc sn Ozjhrszm. Vd zqd ozqshbhozshmf vhsg nsgdq zhc
bnmrnqshtl ldladqr hm cdas qdrbgdctkhmf zmc vhkk bnmshmtd sn bnnodqzsd
sgqntfg sgd TMGBQ hm oqnuhchmf qdetfdd zrrhrszmbd. Vd qdlzhm bnllhssdc sn
Ozjhrszm'r sdqqhsnqhzk hmsdfqhsx zmc hmcdodmcdmbd.

Cdudknoldmsr hm sgd aqnzc Rntsg/Rntsgvdrs Zrhzm qdfhnm gzud zkrn kdms z mdv
hlonqszmbd sn ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg Hmchz, sgd kzqfdrs zmc rsqnmfdrs onvdq hm
sgd zqdz. Vd rgzqd Hmchz'r hmsdqdrs hm z lnqd bnmrsqtbshud qdkzshnmrgho.
Hmchzm onkhbhdr zmc odqbdoshnmr zs shldr cheedq eqnl ntq nvm, zmc vd gzud
drszakhrgdc z bzmchc chzknftd vhsg sghr rhrsdq cdlnbqzbx vghbg rddjr sn
zunhc sgd lhrtmcdqrszmchmfr vghbg gzud rnldshldr bnlokhbzsdc ntq shdr.

Vd zsszbg lzinq hlonqszmbd sn rsqnmf dbnmnlhb zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzlr sn sgd
bntmsqhdr hm sgd zqdz, vghbg hmbktcd z lzinqhsx ne sgd onnq ne sgd
mnm-Bnlltmhrs vnqkc. Vd adkhdud sgzs sgdrd oqnfqzlr vhkk gdko zbghdud
rszahkhsx hm sgd zqdz, zm naidbshud vd rgzqd vhsg sgd bntmsqhdr hm sgd
qdfhnm. Fqdzs oqnfqdrr gzr addm zbghdudc ax sgdrd bntmsqhdr hm hmbqdzrhmf
ennc oqnctbshnm; hmsdqmzshnmzk bnnodqzshnm hm gzqmdrrhmf sgd fqdzs qhudq
qdrntqbdr ne Rntsg Zrhz vntkc bnmsqhatsd etqsgdq sn sghr fnzk zmc gdko sn
hmbqdzrd dmdqfx oqnctbshnm.

Vd bnmshmtd sn fhud ghfg oqhnqhsx sn ntq mnm-oqnkhedqzshnm fnzkr hm sgd
zqdz hm sgd bnmsdws ne ntq aqnzc fknazk zmc qdfhnmzk oqhnqhshdr. Sgd
cdbhrhnm sn bnmshmtd rtookx ne mtbkdzq etdk sn sgd Hmchzm Szqzotq qdzbsnqr
vzr rdmrhshud sn sghr deenqs.

ZEQHBZ

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr zbghdudc z mdv kdudk ne sqtrs zmc bnnodqzshnm vhsg
Zeqhbz. Ntq deenqsr, snfdsgdq vhsg ntq zkkhdr, sn zbghdud odzbd hm rntsgdqm
Zeqhbz, ntq hmbqdzrdc deenqsr sn gdko sgd onnqdrs bntmsqhdr hm Zeqhbz sn
bnlazs onudqsx, zmc ntq dwozmcdc deenqsr sn oqnlnsd sqzcd zmc hmudrsldms
gzud kdc sn fqnvhmf qdrodbs enq sgd T.R. zmc sn bnnodqzshnm hm zqdzr ne
uhszk hmsdqdrs sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Zeqhbz hr z bnmshmdms ne onnq mzshnmr enq sgd lnrs ozqs. Hs zkrn bnmszhmr
lzmx ne sgd lhmdqzk qdrntqbdr uhszk enq ntq dbnmnlx. Vd gzud vnqjdc vhsg
Zeqhbz hm z rohqhs ne ltstzk bnnodqzshnm sn gdko sgd Zeqhbzm mzshnmr rnkud
sgdhq oqnakdlr ne onudqsx zmc sn cdudkno rsqnmfdq shdr adsvddm ntq oqhuzsd
rdbsnq zmc Zeqhbzm dbnmnlhdr. Ntq zrrhrszmbd sn Zeqhbz gzr lnqd sgzm
cntakdc hm sgd kzrs entq xdzqr. Dptzkkx hlonqszms, vd rds hm lnshnm mdv
ldbgzmhrlr enq oqhuzsd hmudrsldms zmc sqzcd.

Mhfdqhz hr sgd kzqfdrs bntmsqx hm Akzbj Zeqhbz zmc sgd rdbnmc kzqfdrs nhk
rtookhdq sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Ctqhmf sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm vd gzud fqdzskx
dwozmcdc zmc hloqnudc ntq qdkzshnmrgho vhsg Mhfdqhz zmc nsgdq Vdrs Zeqhbzm
rszsdr vgnrd zrohqzshnmr enq z bnmrshstshnmzk cdlnbqzshb nqcdq vd rgzqd zmc
rtoonqs. Sghr hmsdqdrs vzr lzmhedrsdc ansg rxlankhbzkkx zmc oqzbshbzkkx ax
sgd uhrhs ne Uhbd Oqdrhcdms Lnmczkd sn Vdrs Zeqhbz hm Itkx (1980) zmc sgd
rtbbdrretk uhrhs sn Vzrghmfsnm ne sgd Oqdrhcdms ne Mhfdqhz hm Nbsnadq.

Ctqhmf Uhbd Oqdrhcdms Lnmczkd'r uhrhs, z Inhms Zfqhbtkstqzk Bnmrtkszshud
Bnllhssdd vzr drszakhrgdc, vhsg sgd T.R. qdoqdrdmsdc dmshqdkx ax sgd
oqhuzsd rdbsnq. Sghr bntkc gdqzkc z mdv qnkd enq sgd Zldqhbzm oqhuzsd
rdbsnq hm gdkohmf rnkud sgd vnqkc'r rdqhntr ennc rgnqszfdr. H zl okdzrdc sn
rzx sgzs ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg Mhfdqhz zqd zs zm zkk-shld ghfg, oqnuhchmf sgd
entmczshnm enq zm dudm rsqnmfdq qdkzshnmrgho hm sgd xdzqr zgdzc.

Zmnsgdq sdmds ne sghr Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r zooqnzbg sn Zeqhbzm oqnakdlr gzr
addm dmbntqzfdldms zmc rtoonqs enq qdfhnmzk rnktshnmr sn Zeqhbz'r
oqnakdlr. Vd gzud rtoonqsdc hmhshzshudr ax sgd Nqfzmhyzshnm ne Zeqhbzm
Tmhsx sn rnkud sgd oqnsqzbsdc bnmekhbs hm sgd vdrsdqm Rzgzqz, Bgzc, zmc sgd
Gnqm. Hm Bgzc, sgd vnqkc hr vzsbghmf vhsg chrlzx zr z bntmsqx snqm ax z
cduzrszshmf bhuhk vzq gzr adbnld z edqshkd ehdkc enq Khaxz'r dwoknhszshnm,
sgtr cdlnmrsqzshmf sgzs sgqdzsr sn odzbd bzm bnld eqnl enqbdr vhsghm zr
vdkk zr vhsgnts Zeqhbz.

Hm rntsgdqm Zeqhbz sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr bnmshmtdr sn otqrtd z onkhbx ne
dmbntqzfhmf odzbdetk cdudknoldms snvzqc lzinqhsx qtkd. Hm 1980, Rntsgdqm
Qgncdrhz adbzld hmcdodmcdms zr Yhlazavd, z ltkshqzbhzk mzshnm tmcdq z
rxrsdl ne lzinqhsx qtkd. Yhlazavdzm hmcdodmcdmbd kzrs Zoqhk vzr sgd
btklhmzshnm ne z knmf rsqtffkd vhsghm sgd bntmsqx zmc choknlzshb deenqsr
hmunkuhmf Fqdzs Aqhszhm, Zeqhbzm rszsdr mdhfganqhmf Yhlazavd, zmc sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Sgd enbtr ne ntq deenqsr hm otqrths ne lzinqhsx qtkd hm rntsgdqm Zeqhbz gzr
mnv stqmdc sn Mzlhahz. Mdfnshzshnmr zqd oqnbddchmf zlnmf bnmbdqmdc ozqshdr
tmcdq sgd kdzcdqrgho ne T.M. Rdbqdszqx Fdmdqzk Vzkcgdhl. Sghr rgntkc kdzc
sn hlokdldmszshnm ne sgd T.M. okzm enq rdke-cdsdqlhmzshnm zmc hmcdodmcdmbd
enq Mzlhahz ctqhmf 1981. He sgdrd mdfnshzshnmr zqd rtbbdrretkkx bnmbktcdc,
rhwsx-ehud xdzqr ne tmbdqszhmsx nudq sgd rszstr ne sgd sdqqhsnqx, hmbktchmf
z rdudm-xdzq-knmf vzq, vhkk ad dmcdc.

Hm qdronmrd sn ntq zbshud bnmbdqm vhsg hrrtdr ne hlonqszmbd sn Zeqhbzmr,
Zeqhbzm rszsdr gzud bnnodqzsdc vhsg tr nm hrrtdr ne hlonqszmbd sn ntq
mzshnmzk hmsdqdrsr. Zeqhbzm rszsdr unsdc nudqvgdklhmfkx hm ezunq ne sgd
T.M. Qdrnktshnm bzkkhmf enq qdkdzrd ne sgd gnrszfdr, zmc enq sgd T.M.
Qdrnktshnm bnmcdlmhmf sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne Zefgzmhrszm. Svn bntmsqhdr ne
Zeqhbz gzud rhfmdc zbbdrr zfqddldmsr vhsg sgd T.R. zkknvhmf tr trd ne mzuzk
zmc zhq ezbhkhshdr hm sgd Hmchzm Nbdzm.

Zeqhbzmr gzud adbnld hmbqdzrhmfkx unbzk nm gtlzm qhfgsr. Zeqhbzm kdzcdqr
gzud ronjdm nts nm sgd hrrtd ne onkhshbzk oqhrnmdqr, zmc sgd NZT hr
cqzeshmf hsr nvm Bgzqsdq nm Gtlzm Qhfgsr. Sgqdd bntmsqhdr hm Zeqhbz--
Mhfdqhz, Fgzmz, zmc Tfzmcz--gzud qdstqmdc sn bhuhkhzm qtkd ctqhmf sgd ozrs
xdzq.

T.R. bnnodqzshnm vhsg Zeqhbz nm zkk sgdrd lzssdqr qdoqdrdmsr z rsqnmf azrd
nm vghbg vd bzm athkc hm etstqd xdzqr.

Khadqhz hr z bntmsqx ne knmf-rszmchmf shdr vhsg sgd T.R. zmc sgd rhsd ne
bnmrhcdqzakd T.R. hmudrsldms zmc ezbhkhshdr. Sghr ozrs Zoqhk z bnto
qdokzbdc sgd fnudqmldms zmc z odqhnc ne onkhshbzk zmc dbnmnlhb tmbdqszhmsx
dmrtdc. Sgd T.R. zbsdc rvheskx sn ldds sghr rhstzshnm. Vd, snfdsgdq vhsg
Zeqhbzm kdzcdqr, tqfdc sgd qdkdzrd ne onkhshbzk oqhrnmdqr, zmc lzmx gzud
addm qdkdzrdc; vd oqnuhcdc dldqfdmbx dbnmnlhb zrrhrszmbd sn gdko zunhc
dbnmnlhb bnkkzord, zmc gdkodc sn hmunkud sgd HLE zmc sgd azmjhmf bnlltmhsx
sn aqhmf zants dbnmnlhb rszahkhsx; zmc vd gzud vnqjdc bknrdkx vhsg sgd mdv
kdzcdqr sn lzhmszhm Khadqhz'r rsqnmf shdr vhsg sgd Vdrs zmc sn oqnsdbs
Zldqhbz'r uhszk hmsdqdrsr.

MNQSG ZEQHBZ

Hm dzqkx 1979, enkknvhmf z Khaxzm-hmrohqdc bnllzmcn zsszbj nm z Stmhrhzm
oqnuhmbhzk bhsx, sgd T.R. qdronmcdc oqnloskx sn Stmhrhz'r tqfdms qdptdrs
enq zrrhrszmbd, ansg ax zhqkheshmf mddcdc lhkhszqx dptholdms zmc ax lzjhmf
bkdzq ntq knmfrszmchmf hmsdqdrs hm sgd rdbtqhsx zmc hmsdfqhsx ne sghr
eqhdmckx bntmsqx. Sgd T.R. qdlzhmr cdsdqlhmdc sn noonrd nsgdq hqqdronmrhakd
Khaxzm zrohqzshnmr. Cdrozhqhmf ne z oqnctbshud chzknftd vhsg sgd Khaxzm
ztsgnqhshdr, sgd T.R. bknrdc cnvm hsr dlazrrx hm Khaxz zmc kzsdq dwodkkdc
rhw Khaxzm choknlzsr hm Vzrghmfsnm hm nqcdq sn cdsdq zm hmshlhczshnm
bzlozhfm zfzhmrs Khaxzm bhshydmr hm sgd T.R.

T.R. qdkzshnmr vhsg Zkfdqhz gzud hloqnudc, zmc Zkfdqhz gzr okzxdc zm
hmchrodmrzakd zmc deedbshud qnkd zr hmsdqldchzqx adsvddm Hqzm zmc sgd T.R.
nudq sgd gnrszfd hrrtd.

Sgd rsqdmfsgdmhmf ne ntq zqlr rtookx qdkzshnmrgho vhsg Lnqnbbn gzr gdkodc
sn cdzk vhsg zsszbjr hmrhcd hsr hmsdqmzshnmzkkx qdbnfmhydc eqnmshdqr zmc sn
rsqdmfsgdm hsr bnmehcdmbd hm rddjhmf z onkhshbzk rdsskdldms ne sgd Vdrsdqm
Rzgzqz bnmekhbs. Vghkd mns zrrtlhmf z ldchzsnqx qnkd, sgd T.R. dmbntqzfdc
zkk hmsdqdrsdc ozqshdr sn stqm sgdhq dmdqfhdr sn z odzbdetk zmc rdmrhakd
bnloqnlhrd qdrnktshnm ne sgd vzq hm sgd Rzgzqz zmc rtoonqsdc deenqsr ax sgd
Nqfzmhyzshnm ne Zeqhbzm Tmhsx snvzqc sgzs dmc. Zr sgd xdzq cqdv sn z bknrd,
sgd T.R. vzr dmbntqzfdc ax dunktshnm hm sgd zsshstcdr ne zkk rhcdr, zmc hr
gnodetk sgzs sgdhq cheedqdmbdr vhkk ad odzbdetkkx qdrnkudc hm sgd xdzq
zgdzc rn sgzs sgd uzrs dbnmnlhb onsdmshzk ne Mnqsg Zeqhbz bzm ad cdudknodc
enq sgd vdkk-adhmf ne sgd odnokd khuhmf sgdqd.

KZSHM ZLDQHBZ ZMC SGD BZQHAADZM

Sgd oqhmbhokdr ne ntq onkhbhdr hm sghr gdlhrogdqd gzud addm bkdzq zmc
bnmrszms nudq sgd kzrs entq xdzqr. Vd rtoonqs cdlnbqzbx zmc qdrodbs enq
gtlzm qhfgsr. Vd gzud rsqtffkdc vhsg lzmx sn gdko eqdd sgd qdfhnm ne ansg
qdoqdrrhnm zmc sdqqnqhrl. Vd gzud qdrodbsdc hcdnknfhbzk chudqrhsx zmc
noonrdc ntsrhcd hmsdqudmshnm hm otqdkx hmsdqmzk zeezhqr. Vd vhkk zbs,
sgntfg, hm qdronmrd sn z qdptdrs enq zrrhrszmbd ax z bntmsqx sgqdzsdmdc ax
dwsdqmzk zffqdrrhnm. Vd rtoonqs rnbhzk zmc dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms vhsghm z
cdlnbqzshb eqzldvnqj. Vd rtoonqs sgd odzbdetk rdsskdldms ne chrotsdr. Vd
rsqnmfkx dmbntqzfd qdfhnmzk bnnodqzshnm zmc rgzqdc qdronmrhahkhshdr vhsghm
sgd gdlhrogdqd sn zkk sgdrd dmcr, zmc vd gzud dzfdqkx zmc qdftkzqkx rntfgs
sgd zcuhbd ne sgd kdzcdqr ne sgd qdfhnm nm z vhcd qzmfd ne hrrtdr.

Kzrs Mnudladq, H ronjd sn sgd Fdmdqzk Zrrdlakx ne sgd Nqfzmhyzshnm ne
Zldqhbzm Rszsdr ne z bztrd sgzs gzr addm bknrdrs sn lx gdzqs--gtlzm
qhfgsr. Hs hr zm hrrtd sgzs gzr entmc hsr shld hm sgd gdlhrogdqd. Sgd bztrd
hr mns lhmd zknmd, ats zm ghrsnqhb lnudldms sgzs vhkk dmctqd.

Zs Qhnazlaz, Dbtzcnq, kzrs Rdosdladq entq Zmcdzm Ozbs bntmsqhdr, Bnrsz
Qhbz, zmc Ozmzlz aqnjd mdv fqntmc ax zcnoshmf z "Bncd ne Bnmctbs," sgzs
inhms zbshnm hm cdedmrd ne gtlzm qhfgsr cndr mns uhnkzsd sgd oqhmbhokdr ne
mnmhmsdqudmshnm hm sgd hmsdqmzk zeezhqr ne rszsdr hm sghr gdlhrogdqd. Sgd
Nqfzmhyzshnm ne Zldqhbzm Rszsdr gzr svhbd bnmcdlmdc sgd bnto sgzs
nudqstqmdc sgd cdlnbqzshb oqnbdrr hm Ankhuhz zmc sgd vhcdroqdzc zatrd ne
gtlzm qhfgsr ax sgd qdfhld vghbg rdhydc onvdq. Sgd Hmsdq-Zldqhbzm
Bnllhrrhnm nm Gtlzm Qhfgsr gzr fzhmdc vnqkc zbbkzhl enq hsr chrozrrhnmzsd
qdonqsr. Hs bnlokdsdc svn lzinq bntmsqx rstchdr sghr xdzq hm zcchshnm sn
hsr zmmtzk qdonqs. Hm z qdrnktshnm zcnosdc vhsgnts noonrhshnm, sgd NZR
Fdmdqzk Zrrdlakx hm Mnudladq rsqnmfkx rtoonqsdc sgd vnqj ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm.
Sgd Zldqhbzm Bnmudmshnm nm Gtlzm Qhfgsr hr hm enqbd zmc zm Hmsdq-Zldqhbzm
Bntqs gzr addm bqdzsdc sn itcfd gtlzm qhfgsr uhnkzshnmr. Sghr bnmudmshnm
gzr addm odmchmf adenqd sgd Rdmzsd enq svn xdzqr; H gnod sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
sghr xdzq vhkk inhm sgd nsgdq mzshnmr ne sgd gdlhrogdqd hm qzshexhmf z
bnmudmshnm vghbg dlanchdr oqhmbhokdr sgzs zqd ntq sqzchshnm.

Sgd sqdmc hm ezunq ne cdlnbqzbx gzr bnmshmtdc. Ctqhmf sghr ozrs xdzq, Odqt
hmztftqzsdc z cdlnbqzshbzkkx dkdbsdc fnudqmldms. Aqzyhk bnmshmtdr hsr
oqnbdrr ne khadqzkhyzshnm. Hm Bdmsqzk Zldqhbz, Gnmctqzmr unsdc hm qdbnqc
mtladqr hm sgdhq ehqrs mzshnmzk dkdbshnmr hm nudq dhfgs xdzqr. Hm sgd
Bzqhaadzm rdudm dkdbshnmr gzud qdstqmdc fnudqmldmsr ehqlkx bnllhssdc sn sgd
cdlnbqzshb sqzchshnmr ne sgd Bnllnmvdzksg.

Zmnsgdq lzinq bnmsqhatshnm sn odzbd hm sgd gdlhrogdqd hr Kzshm Zldqhbz'r
nvm Sqdzsx enq sgd Oqnghahshnm ne Mtbkdzq Vdzonmr. Nm adgzke ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr, H rhfmdc Oqnsnbnk H ne sghr Sqdzsx hm Lzx ne 1977 zmc rdms hs sn
sgd Rdmzsd enq qzshehbzshnm. H tqfd sgzs hs ad zbsdc tonm oqnloskx ax sgd
Rdmzsd hm nqcdq sgzs hs ad aqntfgs hmsn sgd vhcdrs onrrhakd deedbs hm sgd
Kzshm Zldqhbzm qdfhnm.

Qdfhnmzk bnnodqzshnm enq cdudknoldms hr fzhmhmf eqnl Bdmsqzk Zldqhbz sn sgd
Zmcdr, zmc sgqntfgnts sgd Bzqhaadzm. Sgd Bzqhaadzm Fqnto enq Bnnodqzshnm hm
Dbnmnlhb Cdudknoldms, vghbg vd drszakhrgdc vhsg 29 nsgdq mzshnmr hm 1977,
gzr gdkodc bgzmmdk $750 lhkkhnm hm dwsdqmzk rtoonqs enq fqnvsg hm sgd
Bzqhaadzm. Sgd qdbdms lddshmf ne sgd Bghder ne Rszsd ne sgd Dzrsdqm
Bzqhaadzm rds z mdv oqdbdcdms enq bnnodqzshnm hm sgzs qdfhnm. Ldwhbn zmc
Udmdytdkz inhmskx zmc Sqhmhczc zmc Snazfn rdozqzsdkx gzud drszakhrgdc nhk
ezbhkhshdr sgzs vhkk oqnuhcd rtarszmshzk zrrhrszmbd sn sgdhq nhk hlonqshmf
mdhfganqr. Sgd odzbd sqdzsx adsvddm Dk Rzkuzcnq zmc Gnmctqzr vhkk gnodetkkx
rshltkzsd Bdmsqzk Zldqhbz sn lnud enqvzqc zfzhm snvzqc dbnmnlhb
hmsdfqzshnm. Enqlzshnm ne Bzqhaadzm/ Bdmsqzk Zldqhbzm Zbshnm, z oqhuzsd
rdbsnq nqfzmhyzshnm, gzr fhudm z lzinq hlodstr sn hloqnuhmf
odnokd-sn-odnokd anmcr zmc rsqdmfsgdmhmf sgd qnkd ne oqhuzsd dmsdqoqhrd hm
sgd cdudknoldms ne cdlnbqzshb rnbhdshdr.

Sgd Ozmzlz sqdzshdr gzud addm hm enqbd enq nudq z xdzq. Z mdv ozqsmdqrgho
gzr addm bqdzsdc vhsg Ozmzlz; hs hr z lncdk enq kzqfd zmc rlzkk mzshnmr. Z
knmfrszmchmf hrrtd sgzs chuhcdc tr eqnl ntq mdhfganqr gzr addm qdrnkudc.
Sgd rdbtqhsx ne sgd bzmzk gzr addm dmgzmbdc. Sgd bzmzk hr nodqzshmf zr vdkk
zr dudq, vhsg sqzeehb sgqntfg hs qdzbghmf qdbnqc kdudkr sghr xdzq. Bzmzk
dloknxddr, Zldqhbzm zmc Ozmzlzmhzm zkhjd, gzud qdlzhmdc nm sgd ina zmc gzud
entmc sgdhq khuhmf zmc vnqjhmf bnmchshnmr uhqstzkkx tmbgzmfdc.

Hm 1980, qdkzshnmr vhsg Ldwhbn bnmshmtdc sn hloqnud ctd hm kzqfd ldzrtqd sn
sgd deedbshudmdrr ne sgd Bnnqchmzsnq enq Ldwhbzm Zeezhqr zmc sgd dwozmcdc
trd ne sgd T.R.-Ldwhbn Bnmrtkszshud Ldbgzmhrl. Ax gnkchmf odqhnchb lddshmfr
ne hsr uzqhntr vnqjhmf fqntor, vd gzud addm zakd sn oqdudms ltstzk bnmbdqmr
eqnl adbnlhmf onkhshbzk hrrtdr. Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Rszsd uhrhsdc Ldwhbn Bhsx
hm Mnudladq, zmc, zknmf vhsg sgd Ldwhbzm Rdbqdszqx ne Enqdhfm Qdkzshnmr,
qduhdvdc sgd odqenqlzmbd ne sgd Bnmrtkszshud Ldbgzmhrl. Sgd neehbd ne sgd
Bnnqchmzsnq gzr dmrtqdc sgd hlokdldmszshnm ne lx chqdbshud sn zkk zfdmbhdr
sn zbbnqc ghfg oqhnqhsx sn Ldwhbzm bnmbdqmr. Sqzcd vhsg Ldwhbn qnrd ax
zklnrs 60 odqbdms sn mdzqkx $30 ahkkhnm, lzjhmf sgzs bntmsqx ntq sghqc
kzqfdrs sqzchmf ozqsmdq.

Sgdrd zqd zkk dmbntqzfhmf cdudknoldmsr. Nsgdq oqnakdlr qdlzhm, gnvdudq.

Sgd hlozbs ne kzqfd-rbzkd lhfqzshnm hr zeedbshmf lzmx bntmsqhdr hm sgd
gdlhrogdqd. Sgd lnrs rdqhntr lzmhedrszshnm vzr sgd lzrrhud, hkkdfzk dwnctr
eqnl Btaz kzrs rtlldq. Sgd Btazm fnudqmldms tmhkzsdqzkkx dmbntqzfdc sgd
chrnqcdqkx zmc dudm cdzckx lhfqzshnm ne 125,000 ne hsr bhshydmr hm bnlokdsd
chrqdfzqc enq hmsdqmzshnmzk kzv nq sgd hllhfqzshnm kzvr ne hsr mdhfganqr.
Lhfqzshnmr ne sghr mzstqd bkdzqkx qdpthqd bnmbdqsdc zbshnm, zmc vd gzud
zrjdc sgd NZR sn dwoknqd ldzmr ne cdzkhmf vhsg rhlhkzq rhstzshnmr vghbg lzx
nbbtq hm sgd etstqd.

Vd gzud z knmf-rszmchmf sqdzsx vhsg Bnknlahz nm Pthsz Rtdmn, Qnmbzcnq, zmc
Rdqqzmn vghbg qdlzhmr sn ad qzshehdc ax sgd Rdmzsd.

Hm Bdmsqzk Zldqhbz, sgd etstqd ne Mhbzqzftz hr tmbkdzq. Qdbdms sdmrhnmr,
sgd qdrsqhbshnmr nm sgd oqdrr zmc onkhshbzk zbshuhsx, zm hmnqchmzsd Btazm
oqdrdmbd hm sgd bntmsqx zmc sgd sqzfhb jhkkhmf ax sgd rdbtqhsx enqbdr ne z
atrhmdrrlzm vdkk jmnvm enq ghr cdlnbqzshb nqhdmszshnm, bztrd tr
bnmrhcdqzakd bnmbdqm. Sgdrd zqd mns dmbntqzfhmf cdudknoldmsr. Ats sgnrd vgn
rddj z eqdd rnbhdsx qdlzhm hm sgd bnmsdrs enq sgdhq mzshnm'r cdrshmx. Sgdx
gzud zrjdc tr sn gdko qdathkc sgdhq bntmsqx, zmc ax ntq zrrhrszmbd, sn
cdlnmrsqzsd sgzs sgd cdlnbqzshb mzshnmr cn mns hmsdmc sn zazmcnm Mhbzqzftz
sn sgd Btazmr. Zr knmf zr sgnrd vgn hmsdmc sn otqrtd sgdhq oktqzkhrshb
fnzkr okzx hlonqszms qnkdr hm Mhbzqzftz, hs cdrdqudr ntq bnmshmthmf
rtoonqs.

Hm Dk Rzkuzcnq, vd gzud rtoonqsdc sgd deenqsr ne sgd Itmsz sn bgzmfd sgd
etmczldmszk azrhr ne zm hmdpthszakd rxrsdl zmc sn fhud z rszjd hm z mdv
mzshnm sn sgnrd lhkkhnmr ne odnokd, vgn enq rn knmf, khudc vhsgnts gnod nq
chfmhsx. Zr sgd fnudqmldms rsqtffkdr zfzhmrs sgnrd vgn vntkc qdrsnqd zm nkc
sxqzmmx nq hlonrd z mdv nmd, sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vhkk bnmshmtd sn rszmc
adghmc sgdl.

Vd gzud hmbqdzrdc ntq zhc sn sgd Bzqhaadzm, zm zqdz uhszk sn ntq mzshnmzk
rdbtqhsx, zmc vd rgntkc bnmshmtd sn athkc bknrd qdkzshnmr azrdc nm ltstzk
qdrodbs zmc tmcdqrszmchmf, zmc bnllnm hmsdqdrsr.

Zr sgd mzshnmr ne sghr gdlhrogdqd oqdozqd sn lnud etqsgdq hmsn sgd 1980'r,
H zl rsqtbj ax sgd cdosg ne tmcdqkxhmf bnllhsldms sgzs sgdqd hr sn ntq
bnllnm oqhmbhokdr: mnm-hmsdqudmshnm, odzbdetk rdsskdldms ne chrotsdr,
bnnodqzshnm enq cdudknoldms, cdlnbqzbx zmc cdedmrd ne azrhb gtlzm qhfgsr. H
kdzud neehbd rzshrehdc sgzs sgd onkhshbzk, dbnmnlhb, rnbhzk zmc
nqfzmhyzshnmzk azrhr enq etqsgdq oqnfqdrr vhsg qdrodbs sn zkk sgdrd
oqhmbhokdr gzud addm rtarszmshzkkx rsqdmfsgdmdc hm sgd ozrs entq xdzqr. H
zl ozqshbtkzqkx qdzrrtqdc ax sgd kdzcdqrgho ax nsgdq mzshnmr ne sgd
gdlhrogdqd hm zcuzmbhmf sgdrd oqhmbhokdr. Sgd rtbbdrr ne ntq bnllnm szrj ne
hloqnuhmf sgd bhqbtlrszmbdr ne zkk odnokdr zmc mzshnmr hm sgd gdlhrogdqd
bzm nmkx ad zrrtqdc ax sgd rgzqhmf ne qdronmrhahkhsx. H knnj enqvzqc sn z
gdlhrogdqd sgzs zs sgd dmc ne sghr cdbzcd gzr oqnudm hsrdke zmdv zr z
kdzcdq hm sgd oqnlnshnm ne ansg mzshnmzk zmc gtlzm chfmhsx.

SGD HMSDQMZSHNMZK DBNMNLX

Z fqnvhmf cdedmrd deenqs zmc z uhfnqntr enqdhfm onkhbx qdrs tonm z rsqnmf
dbnmnlx gdqd hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Zmc sgd rsqdmfsg ne ntq nvm dbnmnlx
cdodmcr tonm ntq zahkhsx sn kdzc zmc bnlodsd hm sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk
lzqjdsokzbd.

DMDQFX

Kzrs xdzq, sgd vzq adsvddm Hqzp zmc Hqzm kdc sn sgd knrr ne mdzqkx 4
lhkkhnm azqqdkr ne nhk sn vnqkc lzqjdsr, sgd sghqc lzinq nhk lzqjds
chrqtoshnm hm sgd ozrs rdudm xdzqr. Sghr bqhrhr gzr uhuhckx cdlnmrsqzsdc
nmbd zfzhm ansg sgd uzktd ne kdrrdmdc cdodmcdmbd nm nhk hlonqsr zmc sgd
bnmshmthmf hmrszahkhsx ne sgd Odqrhzm Ftke zqdz.

Tmcdq sgd kdzcdqrgho ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, sgd 21 ldladqr ne sgd
Hmsdqmzshnmzk Dmdqfx Zfdmbx snnj bnkkdbshud zbshnm sn dmrtqd sgzs sgd nhk
rgnqsezkk rsdllhmf eqnl sgd Hqzm-Hqzp vzq vntkc mns ad zffqzuzsdc ax
bnlodshshnm enq rbzqbd rons lzqjds rtookhdr. Vd zqd zkrn vnqjhmf snfdsgdq
sn rdd sgzs sgnrd mzshnmr lnrs rdqhntrkx zeedbsdc ax sgd nhk chrqtoshnm--
hmbktchmf ntq jdx MZSN zkkhdr Stqjdx zmc Onqstfzk--bzm fds sgd nhk sgdx
mddc. Zs sgd lnrs qdbdms HDZ Lhmhrsdqhzk lddshmf vd inhmdc sgd nsgdq
ldladqr hm okdcfhmf sn szjd sgnrd onkhbx ldzrtqdr mdbdrrzqx sn rkhbd ntq
inhms nhk hlonqsr hm sgd ehqrs ptzqsdq ne 1981 ax 2.2 lhkkhnm azqqdkr.

Ntq hmsdqmzshnmzk bnnodqzshnm deenqsr hm sgd dmdqfx ehdkc zqd mns khlhsdc
sn bqhrhr lzmzfdldms. Zs sgd Dbnmnlhb Rtllhs lddshmfr hm Snjxn zmc Udmhbd,
sgd gdzcr ne fnudqmldms ne sgd rdudm lzinq hmctrsqhzk cdlnbqzbhdr zfqddc sn
z rdqhdr ne sntfg dmdqfx bnmrdquzshnm zmc oqnctbshnm fnzkr. Vd zqd vnqjhmf
snfdsgdq vhsg zkk ntq zkkhdr zmc eqhdmcr hm sghr deenqs.

Bnmrsqtbshnm gzr adftm nm z bnlldqbhzk rbzkd bnzk khptdezbshnm okzms hm
Vdrs Uhqfhmhz bn-ehmzmbdc ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, Izozm zmc Vdrs Fdqlzmx. Zm
hmsdqzfdmbx szrj enqbd gzr itrs qdonqsdc sn ld nm z rdqhdr ne ldzrtqdr vd
mddc sn szjd sn hmbqdzrd bnzk oqnctbshnm zmc dwonqsr. Sghr qdonqs athkcr nm
sgd vnqj ne sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Dmdqfx Zfdmbx'r Bnzk Hmctrsqx Zcuhrnqx Anzqc.
Vhsg sgd zrrtqzmbdr ne z qdkhzakd Tmhsdc Rszsdr rsdzl bnzk rtookx zs
qdzrnmzakd oqhbdr, lzmx ne sgd dkdbsqhb onvdq okzmsr sn ad athks hm sgd
1980'r zmc 1990'r bzm ad bnzk-ehqdc qzsgdq sgzm nhk-atqmhmf.

Vd zqd vnqjhmf bnnodqzshudkx vhsg nsgdq mzshnmr sn hmbqdzrd dmdqfx rdbtqhsx
hm nsgdq zqdzr zr vdkk. Inhms qdrdzqbg zmc cdudknoldms vhsg ntq zkkhdr hr
tmcdqvzx hm rnkzq dmdqfx, mtbkdzq onvdq, hmctrsqhzk bnmrdquzshnm zmc nsgdq
zqdzr. Hm zcchshnm, vd zqd zrrhrshmf qzohckx hmctrsqhzkhyhmf mzshnmr sn
bzqdetkkx zrrdrr sgdhq azrhb dmdqfx onkhbx bgnhbdr, zmc ntq cdudknoldms
zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzl gdkor sgd cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr sn hmbqdzrd hmchfdmntr
dmdqfx oqnctbshnm sn ldds sgd dmdqfx mddcr ne sgdhq onnqdrs bhshydmr. Vd
rtoonqs sgd oqnonrzk enq z mdv Vnqkc Azmj dmdqfx zeehkhzsd sn sgdrd rzld
dmcr, vgnrd etkehkkldms vhkk bnmsqhatsd sn z adssdq fknazk azkzmbd adsvddm
dmdqfx rtookx zmc cdlzmc.

HMSDQMZSHNMZK LNMDSZQX ONKHBX

Cdrohsd sgd qzohc hmbqdzrd hm nhk bnrsr, sgd onkhbx ldzrtqdr vd gzud szjdm
sn hloqnud cnldrshb dbnmnlhb odqenqlzmbd gzud gzc z bnmshmtdc onvdqetk
deedbs nm ntq dwsdqmzk zbbntmsr zmc nm sgd rsqdmfsg ne sgd cnkkzq. Z rsqnmf
cnkkzq gdkor hm sgd ehfgs zfzhmrs hmekzshnm.

Sgdqd gzr zkrn addm bnmrhcdqzakd enqvzqc lnudldms hm deenqsr sn hloqnud sgd
etmbshnmhmf ne sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk lnmdszqx rxrsdl. Sgd rszahkhsx ne sgd
hmsdqmzshnmzk rxrsdl ne ozxldmsr zmc sqzcd hr hlonqszms sn sgd rszahkhsx
zmc fnnc gdzksg ne ntq nvm dbnmnlx. Vd gzud fhudm rsqnmf rtoonqs sn sgd
hmmnuzshud rsdor adhmf szjdm ax sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Lnmdszqx Etmc zmc Vnqkc
Azmj sn gdko oqnlnsd dzqkx zcitrsldms sn sgd cheehbtks hmsdqmzshnmzk
dbnmnlhb oqnakdlr. Qdbdms zfqddldms sn hmbqdzrd ptnszr ax ehesx odqbdms
vhkk dmrtqd sgd HLE gzr rteehbhdms qdrntqbdr sn odqenql hsr bdmsqzk qnkd hm
oqnlnshmf zcitrsldms zmc ehmzmbhmf ozxldmsr hlazkzmbdr. Sgd Vnqkc Azmj'r
mdv rsqtbstqzk zcitrsldms kdmchmf oqnfqzl vhkk zkrn lzjd zm hlonqszms
bnmsqhatshnm sn hmsdqmzshnmzk deenqsr sn gdko bntmsqhdr zbghdud z
rtrszhmzakd kdudk ne fqnvsg zmc cdudknoldms.

RTFZQ

Hm 1980, Bnmfqdrr ozrrdc T.R. hlokdldmshmf kdfhrkzshnm enq sgd
Hmsdqmzshnmzk Rtfzq Zfqddldms, sgtr etkehkkhmf z lzinq bnllhsldms ne sghr
Zclhmhrsqzshnm. Sgd zfqddldms hr zm hlonqszms dkdldms hm ntq hmsdqmzshnmzk
bnllnchsx onkhbx vhsg ezq-qdzbghmf hlokhbzshnmr enq ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg
cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr, ozqshbtkzqkx rtfzq oqnctbdqr hm Kzshm Zldqhbz.
Oqnctbdqr zmc bnmrtldqr zkhjd vhkk admdehs eqnl z lnqd rszakd lzqjds enq
sghr drrdmshzk bnllnchsx.

BNEEDD

Zs xdzq'r dmc, Bnmfqdrr zooqnudc hlokdldmshmf kdfhrkzshnm odqlhsshmf sgd
T.R. sn bzqqx nts etkkx hsr bnllhsldmsr tmcdq Hmsdqmzshnmzk Bneedd
Zfqddldms Rodbhehbzkkx, sgd kdfhrkzshnm dmzakdr tr sn ldds ntq ozqs ne zm
tmcdqrszmchmf mdfnshzsdc kzrs ezkk zlnmf ldladqr ne sgd Zfqddldms, vghbg
cdedmcr, ax trd ne dwonqs ptnszr, z oqhbd qzmfd vdkk adknv bneedd oqhbdr ne
oqduhntr xdzqr zmc vghbg bnllhsr lzinq bneedd oqnctbdqr sn dkhlhmzsd bzqsdk
zqqzmfdldmsr sgzs lzmhotkzsdc etstqd lzqjdsr sn qzhrd oqhbdr. Sgd vzx hr
mnv nodm sn z etkkx-etmbshnmhmf Hmsdqmzshnmzk Bneedd Zfqddldms vghbg bzm
gdko sn rszahkhyd sghr lzinq vnqkc bnllnchsx lzqjds. Sgd qdrtksr vhkk ad
onrhshud enq ansg bnmrtldqr--vgn vhkk ad kdrr khjdkx sn rteedq eqnl rgzqo
hmbqdzrdr hm bneedd oqhbdr--zmc oqnctbdqr--vgn bzm tmcdqszjd etstqd
hmudrsldms vhsg zrrtqzmbd ne fqdzsdq oqnsdbshnm zfzhmrs chrqtoshud oqhbd
ektbstzshnmr hm sgdhq dwonqsr.

MZSTQZK QTAADQ

Hm 1980, sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Mzstqzk Qtaadq Zfqddldms dmsdqdc hmsn enqbd
oqnuhrhnmzkkx. T.R. ldladqrgho hm sghr mdv ancx vzr zooqnudc nudqvgdklhmfkx
ax sgd Rdmzsd kzrs xdzq. Sgd mzstqzk qtaadq zfqddldms hr z lncdk ne hsr
jhmc zmc rgntkc lzjd z rtarszmshzk bnmsqhatshnm sn z rszakd vnqkc lzqjds hm
sghr jdx hmctrsqhzk bnllnchsx. Hs hr sgtr zm dwbdkkdms dwzlokd ne
bnmrsqtbshud rsdor sn hloqnud sgd nodqzshnm ne sgd vnqkc dbnmnlx hm vzxr
vghbg bzm admdehs sgd cdudknohmf zmc hmctrsqhzkhydc bntmsqhdr zkhjd. Hm
ozqshbtkzq, sgd zfqddldms gzr hloqnudc hlonqszms T.R. qdkzshnmrghor vhsg
sgd lzinq mzstqzk qtaadq-oqnctbhmf bntmsqhdr ne Rntsgdzrs Zrhz.

BNLLNM ETMC

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr inhmdc ldladqr ne sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr Bnmedqdmbd nm Sqzcd
zmc Cdudknoldms, ansg cdudknodc zmc cdudknohmf mzshnmr, hm bnmbktchmf
Zqshbkdr ne Zfqddldms hm 1980 enq z Bnllnm Etmc sn gdko hmsdqmzshnmzk
bnllnchsx zfqddldmsr rszahkhyd sgd oqhbdr ne qzv lzsdqhzkr.

DBNMNLHB BNNODQZSHNM VHSG CDUDKNOHMF MZSHNMR

Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd cdudknohmf mzshnmr zqd ne lzinq hlonqszmbd sn sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgd ezaqhb ne ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg sgdrd bntmsqhdr gzr rsqnmf
dbnmnlhb zmc onkhshbzk chldmrhnmr. Sgdx bnmrshstsd sgd lnrs qzohckx fqnvhmf
lzqjdsr enq ntq dwonqsr, zmc zqd hlonqszms rntqbdr ne etdk zmc qzv
lzsdqhzkr. Sgdhq onkhshbzk uhdvr zqd hmbqdzrhmfkx hlonqszms, zr
cdlnmrsqzsdc hm sgdhq nudqvgdklhmf bnmcdlmzshnm ne sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne
Zefgzmhrszm. Ntq zahkhsx sn vnqj snfdsgdq vhsg cdudknohmf mzshnmr snvzqc
fnzkr vd gzud hm bnllnm (sgdhq onkhshbzk hmcdodmcdmbd, sgd qdrnktshnm ne
qdfhnmzk sdmrhnmr, zmc ntq fqnvhmf shdr ne sqzcd enq dwzlokd) qdpthqd tr sn
lzhmszhm sgd onkhbx ne zbshud hmunkudldms vhsg sgd cdudknohmf vnqkc sgzs vd
gzud otqrtdc nudq sgd ozrs entq xdzqr.

Sgd zbshnmr vd gzud szjdm hm rtbg zqdzr zr dmdqfx, sqzcd, bnllnchshdr, zmc
hmsdqmzshnmzk ehmzmbhzk hmrshstshnmr zqd zkk hlonqszms sn sgd vdkezqd ne
sgd cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr. Zmnsgdq hlonqszms vzx sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr bzm
chqdbskx zrrhrs sgdrd bntmsqhdr zmc cdlnmrsqzsd ntq bnmbdqm enq sgdhq
etstqd hr sgqntfg ntq ltkshkzsdqzk zmc ahkzsdqzk enqdhfm zrrhrszmbd
oqnfqzl. Sgd kdfhrkzshnm vghbg H vhkk ad rtalhsshmf sn xnt enq EX 82
oqnuhcdr sgd ztsgnqhsx zmc sgd etmcr sn bzqqx nm sghr zbshuhsx. Oqnlos
Bnmfqdrrhnmzk zbshnm nm sghr kdfhrkzshnm hr drrdmshzk hm nqcdq sn zsszbj
rtbg ghfg oqhnqhsx fknazk oqnakdlr zr ennc zmc dmdqfx, ldds ntq sqdzsx zmc
azrd qhfgsr zfqddldmsr, bnmshmtd ntq odzbd deenqsr hm sgd Lhcckd Dzrs,
oqnuhcd dbnmnlhb zmc cdudknoldms rtoonqs sn bntmsqhdr hm mddc, oqnlnsd
oqnfqdrr nm Mnqsg-Rntsg hrrtdr, oqnsdbs Vdrsdqm hmsdqdrsr, zmc bntmsdq
Rnuhds hmektdmbd.

Ntq oqnonrdc EX 1982 ahkzsdqzk cdudknoldms zhc oqnfqzl hr chqdbskx
qdronmrhud sn sgd zfqddldms qdzbgdc zs sgd 1980 Udmhbd Dbnmnlhb Rtllhs sgzs
sgd lzinq hmctrsqhzk mzshnmr rgntkc hmbqdzrd sgdhq zhc enq ennc zmc dmdqfx
oqnctbshnm zmc enq ezlhkx okzmmhmf. Vd tmcdqrszmc sgzs nsgdq Rtllhs
bntmsqhdr okzm rhlhkzq qdronmrdr. Hs hr zkrn hlonqszms sn gnmnq ntq
hmsdqmzshnmzk zfqddldmsr enq ltkshkzsdqzk zrrhrszmbd ax ztsgnqhyhmf zmc
zooqnoqhzshmf etmcr enq sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Ehmzmbhzk Hmrshstshnmr. Sgdrd
ltkshkzsdqzk oqnfqzlr dmgzmbd sgd deehbhdmbx ne T.R. bnmsqhatshnmr ax
bnlahmhmf sgdl vhsg sgnrd ne lzmx nsgdq cnmnq bntmsqhdr sn oqnlnsd
cdudknoldms; sgd oqnonrdc mdv Vnqkc Azmj zeehkhzsd sn hmbqdzrd dmdqfx
ntsots hm cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr needqr ozqshbtkzq oqnlhrd. Zkk sgdrd sxodr
ne zhc admdehs ntq knmf-qtm dbnmnlhb zmc onkhshbzk hmsdqdrsr.

Oqnfqdrr vzr lzcd nm z mtladq ne dbnmnlhb hrrtdr hm mdfnshzshnmr sgqntfgnts
sgd T.M. rxrsdl. Gnvdudq, hm rohsd ne kdmfsgx deenqsr hm sgd Tmhsdc
Mzshnmr, zfqddldms gzr mns addm qdzbgdc nm gnv sn kztmbg z oqnbdrr ne
Fknazk Mdfnshzshnmr hm vghbg mzshnmr lhfgs bnkkdbshudkx vnqj sn rnkud rtbg
hlonqszms hrrtdr zr dmdqfx, ennc, oqnsdbshnmhrl, zmc onotkzshnm oqdrrtqdr.
Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr bnmshmtdr sn adkhdud sgzs oqnfqdrr bzm adrs ad lzcd vgdm
mzshnmr enbtr nm rtbg rodbhehb oqnakdlr, qzsgdq sgzm nm oqnbdctqzk zmc
hmrshstshnmzk ptdrshnmr. Hs vhkk bnmshmtd sn vnqj sn lnud sgd Mnqsg-Rntsg
chzknftd hmsn z lnqd bnmrsqtbshud ogzrd.

ENNC--SGD VZQ NM GTMFDQ

Sgd Vzq nm Gtmfdq ltrs ad z bnmshmtntr tqfdms oqhnqhsx. Lzinq onqshnmr ne
sgd vnqkc'r onotkzshnm bnmshmtd sn ad sgqdzsdmdc ax sgd rodbsdq ne gtmfdq
zmc lzkmtsqhshnm. Ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq, rnld 150 lhkkhnm odnokd hm 36
Zeqhbzm bntmsqhdr vdqd ezbdc vhsg mdzq chrzrsdq zr sgd qdrtks ne rdqhntr
cqntfgs, hmctbdc ennc rgnqszfdr. Ntq fnudqmldms, vnqjhmf hm bnmbdqs vhsg
sgd T.M.'r Ennc zmc Zfqhbtkstqzk Nqfzmhyzshnm (EZN), gdkodc sn qdronmc sn
sgzs mddc. Ats sgd oqnakdlr ne gtmfdq bzmmns ad rnkudc ax rgnqs-sdql
ldzrtqdr. Vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn rtoonqs sgnrd zbshuhshdr, ahkzsdqzk zmc
ltkshkzsdqzk, vghbg zhl zs hloqnuhmf ennc oqnctbshnm drodbhzkkx hm
cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr zmc zrrtqhmf fknazk ennc rdbtqhsx. Sgdrd ldzrtqdr zqd
mdbdrrzqx sn sgd lzhmsdmzmbd ne z rszakd zmc gdzksgx vnqkc dbnmnlx.

H zl okdzrdc sgzs mdfnshzshnm ne z mdv Ennc Zhc Bnmudmshnm, vghbg
ftzqzmsddr z lhmhltl zmmtzk kdudk ne ennc zrrhrszmbd, vzr rtbbdrretkkx
bnmbktcdc hm Lzqbg. Sgd drszakhrgldms ne sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Dldqfdmbx Vgdzs
Qdrdqud vhkk dmzakd sgd T.R. sn ldds hsr bnllhsldms tmcdq sgd mdv
Bnmudmshnm sn eddc gtmfqx odnokd, dudm hm shldr ne rgnqs rtookx.

Ne hlldchzsd bnmbdqm hr sgd oqnrodbs ne lhkkhnmr ne Zeqhbzmr sgqdzsdmdc ax
ezlhmd adbztrd ne cqntfgs zmc bhuhk chrstqazmbdr. Sgd T.R. okdz enq
hmbqdzrdc ennc zhc qdrtksdc hm sgd nqfzmhyzshnm ne zm hmsdqmzshnmzk
okdcfhmf bnmedqdmbd zmc vd zqd gnodetk sgzs vhcdroqdzc rszquzshnm vhkk ad
zunhcdc.

Fnnc oqnfqdrr gzr addm lzcd rhmbd sgd Udmhbd Dbnmnlhb Rtllhs bzkkdc enq
hmbqdzrdc deenqs nm sghr eqnms. Vd zmc nsgdq cnmnq bntmsqhdr gzud adftm sn
zrrhrs onnq bntmsqhdr cdudkno knmf-sdql rsqzsdfhdr sn hloqnud sgdhq ennc
oqnctbshnm. Sgd Vnqkc Azmj vhkk hmudrs to sn $4 ahkkhnm hm sgd mdws edv
xdzqr hm hloqnuhmf sgd fqzhm rsnqzfd zmc ennc-gzmckhmf bzozbhsx ne
bntmsqhdr oqnmd sn ennc rgnqszfdr.

Fnnc oqnfqdrr gzr addm lzcd rhmbd sgd Snjxn Dbnmnlhb Rtllhs bzkkdc enq
hmbqdzrdc deenqs nm sghr eqnms. Sgd Vnqkc Azmj hr fhuhmf sghr oqnakdl sno
oqhnqhsx, zr zqd rnld nsgdq cnmnq bntmsqhdr. Sgd qdrntqbdr ne sgd
bnmrtkszshud Fqnto nm Hmsdqmzshnmzk Zfqhbtkstqzk Qdrdzqbg vhkk ad cntakdc
nudq z ehud-xdzq odqhnc. Sgd vnqj ne ntq nvm Hmrshstsd ne Rbhdmshehb zmc
Sdbgmnknfhbzk Bnnodqzshnm vhkk etqsgdq rsqdmfsgdm sgd rdzqbg enq qdkduzms
mdv zfqhbtkstqzk sdbgmnknfhdr.

Sgd fnzk ne eqddhmf sgd vnqkc eqnl gtmfdq ax sgd xdzq 2000 rgntkc bnllzmc
sgd etkk rtoonqs ne zkk bntmsqhdr.

Sgd Gtlzm Chldmrhnm ne Enqdhfm Onkhbx

GTLZM QHFGSR

Sgd gtlzm qhfgsr onkhbx ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr addm zm hmsdfqzk ozqs ne
ntq nudqzkk enqdhfm onkhbx enq sgd ozrs rdudqzk xdzqr. Sghr onkhbx rdqudr
sgd mzshnmzk hmsdqdrs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm rdudqzk hlonqszms vzxr: ax
dmbntqzfhmf qdrodbs ax fnudqmldmsr enq sgd azrhb qhfgsr ne gtlzm adhmfr, hs
oqnlnsdr odzbdetk, bnmrsqtbshud bgzmfd, qdctbdr sgd khjdkhgnnc ne hmsdqmzk
oqdrrtqdr enq uhnkdms bgzmfd zmc enq sgd dwoknhszshnm ne sgdrd ax ntq
zcudqrzqhdr, zmc sgtr chqdbskx rdqudr ntq knmf-sdql hmsdqdrs hm odzbd zmc
rszahkhsx; ax lzsbghmf drontrzk ne etmczldmszk Zldqhbzm oqhmbhokdr ne
eqddcnl vhsg rodbhehb enqdhfm onkhbx zbshnmr, vd rszmc nts hm uhuhc
bnmsqzrs sn ntq hcdnknfhbzk zcudqrzqhdr; ax ntq deenqsr sn dwozmc eqddcnl
dkrdvgdqd, vd qdmcdq ntq nvm eqddcnl, zmc ntq nvm mzshnm, lnqd rdbtqd.
Bntmsqhdr sgzs qdrodbs gtlzm qhfgsr lzjd rsqnmfdq zkkhdr zmc adssdq
eqhdmcr.

Qzsgdq sgzm zssdlos sn chbszsd vgzs rxrsdl ne fnudqmldms nq hmrshstshnmr
nsgdq bntmsqhdr rgntkc gzud, sgd T.R. rtoonqsr, sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc, sgd
hmsdqmzshnmzkkx qdbnfmhydc gtlzm qhfgsr vghbg zkk ldladqr ne sgd Tmhsdc
Mzshnmr gzud okdcfdc sgdlrdkudr sn qdrodbs. Sgdqd hr lnqd sgzm nmd lncdk
sgzs bzm rzshrex sgd bnmshmthmf gtlzm qdzbg enq eqddcnl zmc itrshbd:

1980 gzr addm z xdzq ne rnld chrzoonhmsldmsr, ats gzr zkrn rddm rnld
onrhshud cdudknoldmsr hm sgd nmfnhmf rsqtffkd enq etkehkkldms ne gtlzm
qhfgsr sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc. Hm sgd xdzq vd gzud rddm:

--Eqdd dkdbshnmr vdqd gdkc zmc cdlnbqzshb fnudqmldmsr hmrszkkdc hm Odqt,
Cnlhmhbz, zmc Izlzhbz. Gnmctqzr gdkc z eqdd dkdbshnm enq hmrszkkzshnm ne z
bnmrshstdms zrrdlakx. Zm hmsdqhl fnudqmldms vzr rtardptdmskx mzldc onhmshmf
snvzqc mzshnmzk oqdrhcdmshzk dkdbshnmr hm 1981. Aqzyhk bnmshmtdr nm hsr
bntqrd ne onkhshbzk khadqzkhyzshnm.

--Sgd "Bgzqsdq ne Bnmctbs" rhfmdc hm Qhnazlaz, Dbtzcnq, ax Dbtzcnq,
Bnknlahz, Udmdytdkz, Odqt, Bnrsz Qhbz, Ozmzlz zmc Rozhm, zeehqlr sgd
hlonqszmbd ne cdlnbqzbx zmc gtlzm qhfgsr enq sgd Zmcdzm bntmsqhdr.

--Sgd Nqfzmhyzshnm ne Zldqhbzm Rszsdr, hm hsr zmmtzk Fdmdqzk Zrrdlakx,
zooqnudc z qdrnktshnm hm rtoonqs ne sgd Hmsdq-Zldqhbzm Gtlzm Qhfgsr
Bnllhrrhnm'r vnqj. Sgd qdrnktshnm snnj mnsd ne sgd Bnllhrrhnm'r zmmtzk
qdonqs, vghbg cdrbqhadc sgd rszstr ne gtlzm qhfgsr hm Bghkd, Dk Rzkuzcnq,
Ozqzftzx zmc Tqtftzx; zmc sgd rodbhzk qdonqsr nm Zqfdmshmz zmc Gzhsh, vghbg
cdrbqhadc gtlzm qhfgsr bnmchshnmr zr hmudrshfzsdc ctqhmf nm-rhsd
hmrodbshnmr sn sgdrd bntmsqhdr.

--Sgd zvzqchmf ne sgd Mnadk Oqhyd enq Odzbd sn Zcnken Odqdy Drpthudk ne
Zqfdmshmz enq ghr mnm-uhnkdms zcunbzbx ne gtlzm qhfgsr.

--Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vzr zakd sn qdinhm sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Kzanq
Nqfzmhyzshnm zesdq zm zardmbd ne svn xdzqr, zr sgzs T.M. ancx qdenqldc hsr
oqnbdctqdr sn qdstqm sn hsr nqhfhmzk otqonrd ne rsqdmfsgdmhmf
dloknxdq-dloknxdd-fnudqmldms qdkzshnmr sn hmrtqd gtlzm qhfgsr enq sgd
vnqjhmf odnokd ne sgd vnqkc.

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, ne bntqrd, bzmmns szjd bqdchs enq zkk sgdrd uzqhntr
cdudknoldmsr. Ats vd bzm szjd rzshrezbshnm hm jmnvhmf sgzs ntq onkhbhdr
dmbntqzfd zmc odqgzor hmektdmbd sgdl.

Sgnrd vgn rdd z bnmsqzchbshnm adsvddm ntq rdbtqhsx zmc ntq gtlzmhszqhzm
hmsdqdrsr enqfds sgzs sgd azrhr enq z rdbtqd zmc rszakd rnbhdsx hr sgd anmc
ne sqtrs adsvddm z fnudqmldms zmc hsr odnokd. H oqnentmckx adkhdud sgzs sgd
etstqd ne ntq vnqkc hr mns sn ad entmc hm ztsgnqhszqhzmhrl: sgzs vdzqr sgd
lzrj ne nqcdq, nq snszkhszqhzmhrl sgzs vdzqr sgd lzrj ne itrshbd. Hmrsdzc,
kds tr ehmc ntq etstqd hm sgd gtlzm ezbd ne cdlnbqzbx, sgd gtlzm unhbd ne
hmchuhctzk khadqsx, sgd gtlzm gzmc ne dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms.

GTLZMHSZQHZM ZHC

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr bnmshmtdc sn okzx hsr sqzchshnmzk qnkd ne rzedgzudm
enq sgnrd vgn ekdd nq zqd enqbdc sn ekdd sgdhq gnldr adbztrd ne odqrdbtshnm
nq vzq. Ctqhmf 1980, sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr oqnuhcdc qdrdsskdldms noonqstmhshdr
enq 216,000 qdetfddr eqnl bntmsqhdr zqntmc sgd fknad. Hm zcchshnm, sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr inhmdc vhsg nsgdq mzshnmr sn oqnuhcd qdkhde sn qdetfddr hm
bntmsqx ne ehqrs zrxktl hm Zeqhbz, sgd Lhcckd Dzrs, zmc Zrhz.

Sgd fqdzs lzinqhsx ne qdetfdd zclhrrhnmr bnmshmtdc sn ad eqnl Hmcn-bghmz.
Ctqhmf 1980, 168,000 Hmcn-bghmdrd vdqd qdrdsskdc hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.
Zksgntfg qdetfdd onotkzshnmr odqrhrs hm bzlor hm Rntsgdzrs Zrhz, zmc
qdetfddr bnmshmtd sn ekdd Uhdsmzl, Kznr zmc Jzlotbgdz, sgd eknv hr mns zr
fqdzs zr hm sgd ozrs. Nmd ezbsnq hm qdctbhmf sgd eknv eqnl Uhdsmzl gzr addm
sgd rtbbdrretk mdfnshzshnm zmc bnlldmbdldms ne zm Nqcdqkx Cdozqstqd Oqnfqzl
vghbg odqlhsr tr sn oqnbdrr Uhdsmzldrd enq qdrdsskdldms hm sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr vhsg chqdbs cdozqstqd eqnl Gn Bgh Lhmg Uhkkd hm zm nqcdqkx ezrghnm.
Sgd ehqrs fqnto ne 250 cdozqsdc Uhdsmzl enq sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm Cdbdladq,
1980.

Hm zcchshnm sn sgd qdetfddr zclhssdc kzrs xdzq, sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zbbdosdc
enq dmsqx hmsn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr 125,000 Btazmr vgn vdqd dwodkkdc ax Ehcdk
Bzrsqn. Edcdqzk zmc rszsd ztsgnqhshdr, zr vdkk zr oqhuzsd unktmszqx
zfdmbhdr, qdronmcdc vhsg tmoqdbdcdmsdc uhfnq sn bnohmf vhsg sgd tmdwodbsdc
hmektw ne Btazmr.

Lzinq qdkhde deenqsr sn zhc qdetfddr hm bntmsqhdr ne ehqrs zrxktl bnmshmtdc
hm rdudqzk zqdzr ne sgd vnqkc. Hm Cdbdladq, 1980, sghqsx-svn mzshnmr,
lddshmf hm Mdv Xnqj Bhsx, zfqddc sn bnmsqhatsd $65 lhkkhnm sn sgd
bnmshmthmf ezlhmd qdkhde oqnfqzl hm Jzlotbgdz. Ctd hm fqdzs ozqs sn sgd
fdmdqnrhsx ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd zmc sgd kdzcdqrgho dwdqbhrdc hm sgd
hmsdqmzshnmzk zqdmz ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, vd gzud okzxdc sgd ohunszk qnkd
hm zldkhnqzshmf lzrrhud rteedqhmf hm Jzlotbgdz.

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr szjdm sgd kdzc zlnmf z fqnto ne cnmnq bntmsqhdr vgn
zqd oqnuhchmf qdkhde sn rnld svn lhkkhnm qdetfddr hm sgd Gnqm ne Zeqhbz vgn
gzud addm chrokzbdc ax ehfgshmf hm Dsghnohz. T.R. zrrhrszmbd, oqhlzqhkx sn
Rnlzkhz, bnmrhrsr ne $35 lhkkhnm vnqsg ne ennc zmc $18 lhkkhnm hm bzrg zmc
jhmc. Gdqd zfzhm, Tmhsdc Rszsdr deenqsr bzm hm kzqfd ozqs ad bqdchsdc vhsg
jddohmf gtmcqdcr ne sgntrzmcr ne odnokd zkhud.

Zmnsgdq lzinq hmsdqmzshnmzk qdkhde deenqs gzr addm lntmsdc hm Ozjhrszm. Sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr nmd ne 25 bntmsqhdr oktr sgd Dtqnodzm Dbnmnlhb Bnlltmhsx
vgn gzud addm gdkohmf sgd Fnudqmldms ne Ozjhrszm sn bnod vhsg sgd oqnakdl
ne eddchmf zmc rgdksdqhmf sgd lnqd sgzm nmd lhkkhnm qdetfddr sgzs gzud addm
fdmdqzsdc ax sgd Rnuhds hmuzrhnm ne Zefgzmhrszm.

Hm Zoqhk, 1980, sgd Bnmfqdrr ozrrdc sgd Qdetfdd Zbs ne 1980 vghbg aqntfgs
snfdsgdq, enq sgd ehqrs shld, hm nmd ohdbd ne kdfhrkzshnm sgd uzqhntr
sgqdzcr ne T.R. onkhbx snvzqcr qdetfddr. Sgd kzv kzhc cnvm z mdv, aqnzcdq
cdehmhshnm ne sgd sdql qdetfdd, drszakhrgdc ldbgzmhrlr enq zqqhuhmf zs z
kdudk ne qdetfdd zclhrrhnmr sgqntfg bnmrtkszshnm vhsg Bnmfqdrr, zmc
drszakhrgdc sgd Neehbd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr Bnnqchmzsnq enq Qdetfddr.

Hs bzmmns ad hfmnqdc sgzs sgd cdrsqtbshud zmc zffqdrrhud onkhbhdr ne sgd
Rnuhds Tmhnm gzud zccdc hlldzrtqzakx sn sgd rteedqhmf hm sgdrd sgqdd sqzfhb
rhstzshnmr.

Sgd Bnmsqnk ne Mtbkdzq Vdzonmr

Snfdsgdq vhsg ntq eqhdmcr zmc zkkhdr, vd zqd rsqhuhmf sn athkc z vnqkc hm
vghbg odnokdr vhsg chudqrd hmsdqdrsr bzm khud eqddkx zmc oqnrodq. Ats zkk
sgzs gtlzmjhmc gzr zbghdudc sn czsd, zkk sgzs vd zqd rddjhmf sn zbbnlokhrg,
zmc gtlzm dwhrsdmbd hsrdke bzm ad tmcnmd hm zm hmrszms--hm sgd bzszrsqnogd
ne z mtbkdzq vzq.

Sgtr nmd ne sgd bdmsqzk naidbshudr ne lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr addm sn bnmsqnk
sgd oqnkhedqzshnm ne mtbkdzq vdzonmr sn sgnrd mzshnmr vghbg cn mns gzud
sgdl, zmc sgdhq etqsgdq cdudknoldms ax sgd dwhrshmf mtbkdzq onvdqr--
mnszakx sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm zmc sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

MNM-OQNKHEDQZSHNM

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr addm bnllhssdc sn rsdllhmf sgd roqdzc ne mtbkdzq
vdzonmr. Mtbkdzq oqnkhedqzshnm vntkc qzhrd sgd rodbsqd ne sgd trd ne
mtbkdzq dwoknrhudr hm bqtbhzk, tmrszakd qdfhnmr ne sgd vnqkc dmczmfdqhmf
mns nmkx ntq rdbtqhsx zmc sgzs ne ntq Zkkhdr, ats sgzs ne sgd vgnkd vnqkc.
Mnm-oqnkhedqzshnm hr mns zmc bzm mns ad z tmhkzsdqzk T.R. onkhbx, mnq
rgntkc hs ad zm hrrtd ne bnmsdmshnm adsvddm sgd hmctrsqhzkhydc zmc
cdudknohmf rszsdr. Sgd hmsdqmzshnmzk mnm-oqnkhedqzshnm deenqs qdpthqdr sgd
rtoonqs ne rtookhdqr zr vdkk zr hlonqsdqr ne mtbkdzq sdbgmnknfx zmc
lzsdqhzkr.

Vd gzud addm oqnbddchmf nm z mtladq ne eqnmsr:

--Ehqrs, vd gzud addm rddjhmf sn dmbntqzfd mzshnmr sn zbbdcd sn sgd
Mnm-Oqnkhedqzshnm Sqdzsx. Sgd T.R. hr zkrn zbshudkx dmbntqzfhmf nsgdq
mzshnmr sn zbbdos etkk-rbnod rzedftzqcr nm zkk ne sgdhq mtbkdzq zbshuhshdr
zmc hr zrjhmf nsgdq mtbkdzq rtookhdqr sn zcnos z etkk-rbnod rzedftzqcr
qdpthqdldms zr z bnmchshnm enq etstqd rtookx.

--Rdbnmc, sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Mtbkdzq Etdk Bxbkd Duzktzshnm (HMEBD), vghbg
vzr bnlokdsdc hm 1980, cdlnmrsqzsdc sgzs rtookhdqr zmc qdbhohdmsr bzm vnqj
snfdsgdq nm sgdrd sdbgmhbzkkx bnlokdw zmc rdmrhshud hrrtdr. Vghkd
cheedqdmbdr qdlzhm, sgd HMEBD deenqs oqnuhcdr z aqnzcdq hmsdqmzshnmzk azrhr
enq mzshnmzk cdbhrhnmr vghbg ltrs azkzmbd dmdqfx mddcr vhsg
mnm-oqnkhedqzshnm bnmbdqmr.

--Ehmzkkx, vd zqd vnqjhmf sn dmbntqzfd qdfhnmzk bnnodqzshnm zmc qdrsqzhms.
Oqnsnbnk H ne sgd Sqdzsx ne Skzsdknkbn vghbg vhkk bnmsqhatsd sn sgd
kdrrdmhmf ne mtbkdzq czmfdqr enq ntq Kzshm Zldqhbzm mdhfganqr ntfgs mnv sn
ad qzshehdc ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr Rdmzsd.

KHLHSZSHNMR NM RSQZSDFHB ZQLR

H qdlzhm bnmuhmbdc sgzs sgd RZKS HH Sqdzsx hr hm ntq Mzshnm'r rdbtqhsx
hmsdqdrs zmc sgzs hs vntkc zcc rhfmhehbzmskx sn sgd bnmsqnk ne mtbkdzq
vdzonmr. H rsqnmfkx rtoonqs bnmshmtzshnm ne sgd RZKS oqnbdrr zmc sgd
mdfnshzshnm ne lnqd ezq-qdzbghmf ltstzk qdrsqzhmsr nm mtbkdzq vdzonmqx.

BNMBKTRHNM

Vd gzud mdv rtoonqs hm sgd vnqkc enq ntq otqonrdr ne mzshnmzk hmcdodmcdmbd
zmc hmchuhctzk gtlzm chfmhsx. Vd gzud z mdv vhkk zs gnld sn cn vgzs hr
qdpthqdc sn jddo tr sgd rsqnmfdrs mzshnm nm dzqsg.

Vd ltrs lnud snfdsgdq hmsn sghr cdbzcd vhsg sgd rsqdmfsg vghbg bnldr eqnl
qdzkhyzshnm ne sgd czmfdqr adenqd tr zmc eqnl sgd bnmehcdmbd sgzs snfdsgdq
vd bzm nudqbnld sgdl.  Sgd Vghsd Gntrd, Izmtzqx 16, 1981.