Kyzj crjk wvn dfekyj yrj efk svve re vrjp kzdv wfi rep fw lj. Rj nv dvvk
kfezxyk, zk yrj evmvi svve dfiv tcvri kyrk kyv jkrkv fw fli Lezfe uvgveuj
fe kyv jkrkv fw kyv nficu. Reu kfezxyk, rj kyiflxyflk fli fne xvevirkzfe,
wivvufd reu gvrtv ze kyv nficu uvgveu fe kyv jkrkv fw fli Lezfe.

Kyv 1980'j yrmv svve sfie ze klidfzc, jkizwv, reu tyrexv. Kyzj zj r kzdv fw
tyrccvexv kf fli zekvivjkj reu fli mrclvj reu zk'j r kzdv kyrk kvjkj fli
nzjufd reu fli jbzccj.

Rk kyzj kzdv ze Zire, 50 Rdviztrej riv jkzcc yvcu trgkzmv, zeeftvek mztkzdj
fw kviifizjd reu rerityp. Rcjf rk kyzj dfdvek, drjjzmv Jfmzvk kiffgj riv
rkkvdgkzex kf jlsalxrkv kyv wzvitvcp zeuvgveuvek reu uvvgcp ivczxzflj
gvfgcv fw Rwxyrezjkre. Kyvjv knf rtkj--fev fw zekvierkzferc kviifizjd reu
fev fw dzczkrip rxxivjjzfe--givjvek r jvizflj tyrccvexv kf kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj fw Rdviztr reu zeuvvu kf rcc kyv erkzfej fw kyv nficu. Kfxvkyvi, nv
nzcc dvvk kyvjv kyivrkj kf gvrtv.

Z'd uvkvidzevu kyrk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzcc ivdrze kyv jkifexvjk fw rcc
erkzfej, slk fli gfnvi nzcc evmvi sv ljvu kf zezkzrkv r kyivrk kf kyv
jvtlizkp fw rep erkzfe fi kf kyv izxykj fw rep yldre svzex. Nv jvvb kf sv
reu kf ivdrze jvtliv--r erkzfe rk gvrtv ze r jkrscv nficu. Slk kf sv jvtliv
nv dljk wrtv kyv nficu rj zk zj.

Kyivv srjzt uvmvcfgdvekj yrmv yvcgvu kf jyrgv fli tyrccvexvj: kyv jkvrup
xifnky reu zetivrjvu gifavtkzfe fw Jfmzvk dzczkrip gfnvi svpfeu zkj fne
sfiuvij; kyv fmvinyvcdzex uvgveuvetv fw kyv Nvjkvie uvdftirtzvj fe fzc
jlggczvj wifd kyv Dzuucv Vrjk; reu kyv givjj fw jftzrc reu ivczxzflj reu
vtfefdzt reu gfczkztrc tyrexv ze kyv drep erkzfej fw kyv uvmvcfgzex nficu,
vovdgczwzvu sp kyv ivmfclkzfe ze Zire.

Vrty fw kyvjv wrtkfij zj zdgfikrek ze zkj fne izxyk. Vrty zekvirtkj nzky
kyv fkyvij. Rcc dljk sv wrtvu kfxvkyvi, jhlrivcp reu tflirxvfljcp. Nv nzcc
wrtv kyvjv tyrccvexvj, reu nv nzcc dvvk kyvd nzky kyv svjk kyrk zj ze lj.
Reu nv nzcc efk wrzc.

Ze ivjgfejv kf kyv rsyfiivek rtk ze Zire, fli Erkzfe yrj evmvi svve rifljvu
reu lezwzvu jf xivrkcp ze gvrtvkzdv. Fli gfjzkzfe zj tcvri. Kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj nzcc efk pzvcu kf scrtbdrzc.

Nv tfekzelv kf glijlv kyvjv jgvtzwzt xfrcj: wzijk, kf gifkvtk kyv givjvek
reu cfex-irexv zekvivjkj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj; jvtfeucp, kf givjvimv kyv
czmvj fw kyv Rdviztre yfjkrxvj reu kf jvtliv, rj hlztbcp rj gfjjzscv, kyvzi
jrwv ivcvrjv, zw gfjjzscv, kf rmfzu scffujyvu nyzty dzxyk wlikyvi veurexvi
kyv czmvj fw fli wvccfn tzkzqvej; kf veczjk kyv yvcg fw fkyvi erkzfej ze
tfeuvdezex kyzj rtk fw mzfcvetv, nyzty zj jyftbzex reu mzfcrkvj kyv dfirc
reu kyv cvxrc jkreuriuj fw r tzmzczqvu nficu; reu rcjf kf tfemzetv reu kf
gvijlruv kyv Zirezre cvruvij kyrk kyv ivrc urexvi kf kyvzi erkzfe czvj ze
kyv efiky, ze kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe reu wifd kyv Jfmzvk kiffgj efn ze
Rwxyrezjkre, reu kyrk kyv lenriirekvu Zirezre hlriivc nzky kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj yrdgvij kyvzi ivjgfejv kf kyzj wri xivrkvi urexvi kf kyvd.

Zw kyv Rdviztre yfjkrxvj riv yridvu, r jvmviv giztv nzcc sv grzu. Nv nzcc
evmvi ivjk lekzc vmvip fev fw kyv Rdviztre yfjkrxvj riv ivcvrjvu.

Slk efn nv wrtv r sifruvi reu dfiv wleurdvekrc tyrccvexv ze kyzj ivxzfe
svtrljv fw kyv ivtvek dzczkrip rtkzfe fw kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe.

Efn, rj ulizex kyv crjk 3 1/2 uvtruvj, kyv ivcrkzfejyzg svknvve fli
tflekip, kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fw Rdviztr, reu kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe zj kyv dfjk
tizkztrc wrtkfi ze uvkvidzezex nyvkyvi kyv nficu nzcc czmv rk gvrtv fi sv
vexlcwvu ze xcfsrc tfewcztk.

Jzetv kyv veu fw kyv Jvtfeu Nficu Nri, Rdviztr yrj cvu fkyvi erkzfej ze
dvvkzex kyv tyrccvexv fw dflekzex Jfmzvk gfnvi. Kyzj yrj efk svve r jzdgcv
fi r jkrkzt ivcrkzfejyzg. Svknvve lj kyviv yrj svve tffgvirkzfe, kyviv yrj
svve tfdgvkzkzfe, reu rk kzdvj kyviv yrj svve tfewifekrkzfe.

Ze kyv 1940'j nv kffb kyv cvru ze tivrkzex kyv Rkcrekzt Rcczretv ze
ivjgfejv kf kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe'j jlggivjjzfe reu kyve tfejfczurkzfe fw zkj
Vrjk Vlifgvre vdgziv reu kyv ivjlckzex kyivrk fw kyv Nrijrn Grtk kf Nvjkvie
Vlifgv.

Ze kyv 1950'j nv yvcgvu kf tfekrze wlikyvi Jfmzvk tyrccvexvj ze Bfivr reu
ze kyv Dzuucv Vrjk, reu nv ivridvu kf rjjliv kyv tfekzelrkzfe fw kyrk
tfekrzedvek.

Ze kyv 1960'j nv dvk kyv Jfmzvk tyrccvexvj ze Svicze, reu nv wrtvu kyv
Tlsre dzjjzcv tizjzj. Reu nv jflxyk kf vexrxv kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe ze kyv
zdgfikrek krjb fw dfmzex svpfeu kyv tfcu nri reu rnrp wifd tfewifekrkzfe.

Reu ze kyv 1970'j kyivv Rdviztre Givjzuvekj evxfkzrkvu nzky kyv Jfmzvk
cvruvij ze rkkvdgkj kf yrck kyv xifnky fw kyv eltcvri ridj irtv. Nv jflxyk
kf vjkrsczjy ilcvj fw svyrmzfi kyrk nflcu ivultv kyv izjbj fw tfewcztk, reu
nv jvrityvu wfi rivrj fw tffgvirkzfe kyrk tflcu drbv fli ivcrkzfej
ivtzgiftrc reu gifultkzmv, efk fecp wfi kyv jrbv fw fli knf erkzfej slk wfi
kyv jvtlizkp reu gvrtv fw kyv vekziv nficu.

Ze rcc kyvjv rtkzfej, nv yrmv drzekrzevu knf tfddzkdvekj: kf sv ivrup kf
dvvk rep tyrccvexv sp Jfmzvk dzczkrip gfnvi, reu kf uvmvcfg nrpj kf ivjfcmv
uzjglkvj reu kf bvvg kyv gvrtv.

Givmvekzex eltcvri nri zj kyv wfivdfjk ivjgfejzszczkp fw kyv knf
jlgvigfnvij. Kyrk'j nyp nv'mv evxfkzrkvu kyv jkirkvxzt ridj czdzkrkzfe
kivrkzvj--JRCK Z reu JRCK ZZ. Vjgvtzrccp efn, ze r kzdv fw xivrk kvejzfe,
fsjvimzex kyv dlklrc tfejkirzekj zdgfjvu sp kyv kvidj fw kyvjv kivrkzvj
nzcc sv ze kyv svjk zekvivjk fw sfky tflekizvj reu nzcc yvcg kf givjvimv
nficu gvrtv. Z nzcc tfejlck mvip tcfjvcp nzky kyv Tfexivjj fe kyzj drkkvi
rj nv jkizmv kf tfekifc eltcvri nvrgfej. Kyrk vwwfik kf tfekifc eltcvri
nvrgfej nzcc efk sv rsreufevu.

Nv jlgvigfnvij rcjf yrmv kyv ivjgfejzszczkp kf vovitzjv ivjkirzek ze kyv
ljv fw fli xivrk dzczkrip wfitv. Kyv zekvxizkp reu kyv zeuvgveuvetv fw
nvrbvi erkzfej dljk efk sv kyivrkvevu. Kyvp dljk befn kyrk ze fli givjvetv
kyvp riv jvtliv.

Slk efn kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe yrj krbve r iruztrc reu re rxxivjjzmv evn jkvg.
Zk'j ljzex zkj xivrk dzczkrip gfnvi rxrzejk r ivcrkzmvcp uvwvejvcvjj
erkzfe. Kyv zdgcztrkzfej fw kyv Jfmzvk zemrjzfe fw Rwxyrezjkre tflcu gfjv
kyv dfjk jvizflj kyivrk kf kyv gvrtv jzetv kyv Jvtfeu Nficu Nri.

Kyv mrjk drafizkp fw erkzfej fe Vriky yrmv tfeuvdevu kyzj crkvjk Jfmzvk
rkkvdgk kf vokveu zkj tfcfezrc ufdzerkzfe fw fkyvij reu yrmv uvdreuvu kyv
zddvuzrkv nzkyuirnrc fw Jfmzvk kiffgj. Kyv Dfjcvd nficu zj vjgvtzrccp reu
aljkzwzrscp flkirxvu sp kyzj rxxivjjzfe rxrzejk re Zjcrdzt gvfgcv. Ef
rtkzfe fw r nficu gfnvi yrj vmvi svve jf hlztbcp reu jf fmvinyvcdzexcp
tfeuvdevu. Slk mvisrc tfeuvderkzfe zj efk veflxy. Kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe dljk grp
r tfetivkv giztv wfi kyvzi rxxivjjzfe.

Nyzcv kyzj zemrjzfe tfekzelvj, nv reu kyv fkyvi erkzfej fw kyv nficu treefk
tfeultk sljzevjj rj ljlrc nzky kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe. Kyrk'j nyp kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj yrj zdgfjvu jkzww vtfefdzt gverckzvj fe kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe. Z nzcc efk
zjjlv rep gvidzkj wfi Jfmzvk jyzgj kf wzjy ze kyv tfrjkrc nrkvij fw kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Z'mv tlk Jfmzvk rttvjj kf yzxy-kvtyefcfxp vhlzgdvek reu kf
rxiztlcklirc gifultkj. Z'mv czdzkvu fkyvi tfddvitv nzky kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe,
reu Z'mv rjbvu fli rcczvj reu wizveuj kf afze nzky lj ze ivjkirzezex kyvzi
fne kiruv nzky kyv Jfmzvkj reu efk kf ivgcrtv fli fne vdsrixfvu zkvdj. Reu
Z yrmv efkzwzvu kyv Fcpdgzt Tfddzkkvv kyrk nzky Jfmzvk zemruzex wfitvj ze
Rwxyrezjkre, evzkyvi kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv efi Z nzcc jlggfik jveuzex re
Fcpdgzt kvrd kf Dfjtfn.

Kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe zj xfzex kf yrmv kf rejnvi jfdv srjzt hlvjkzfej: Nzcc zk
yvcg gifdfkv r dfiv jkrscv zekvierkzferc vemzifedvek ze nyzty zkj fne
cvxzkzdrkv, gvrtvwlc tfetviej tre sv glijlvu? Fi nzcc zk tfekzelv kf vogreu
zkj dzczkrip gfnvi wri svpfeu zkj xvelzev jvtlizkp evvuj, reu ljv kyrk
gfnvi wfi tfcfezrc tfehlvjk? Kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe dljk ivrczqv kyrk zkj
uvtzjzfe kf ljv dzczkrip wfitv ze Rwxyrezjkre nzcc sv tfjkcp kf vmvip
gfczkztrc reu vtfefdzt ivcrkzfejyzg zk mrclvj.

Kyv ivxzfe nyzty zj efn kyivrkvevu sp Jfmzvk kiffgj ze Rwxyrezjkre zj fw
xivrk jkirkvxzt zdgfikretv: Zk tfekrzej dfiv kyre knf-kyziuj fw kyv nficu'j
vogfikrscv fzc. Kyv Jfmzvk vwwfik kf ufdzerkv Rwxyrezjkre yrj siflxyk
Jfmzvk dzczkrip wfitvj kf nzkyze 300 dzcvj fw kyv Zeuzre Ftvre reu tcfjv kf
kyv Jkirzkj fw Yfidlq, r nrkvinrp kyiflxy nyzty dfjk fw kyv nficu'j fzc
dljk wcfn. Kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe zj efn rkkvdgkzex kf tfejfczurkv r jkirkvxzt
gfjzkzfe, kyvivwfiv, kyrk gfjvj r xirmv kyivrk kf kyv wivv dfmvdvek fw
Dzuucv Vrjk fzc.

Kyzj jzklrkzfe uvdreuj trivwlc kyflxyk, jkvrup evimvj, reu ivjfclkv rtkzfe,
efk fecp wfi kyzj pvri slk wfi drep pvrij kf tfdv. Zk uvdreuj tfccvtkzmv
vwwfikj kf dvvk kyzj evn kyivrk kf jvtlizkp ze kyv Gvijzre Xlcw reu ze
Jflkynvjk Rjzr. Zk uvdreuj kyv grikztzgrkzfe fw rcc kyfjv nyf ivcp fe fzc
wifd kyv Dzuucv Vrjk reu nyf riv tfetvievu nzky xcfsrc gvrtv reu jkrszczkp.
Reu zk uvdreuj tfejlckrkzfe reu tcfjv tffgvirkzfe nzky tflekizvj ze kyv
rivr nyzty dzxyk sv kyivrkvevu.

Dvvkzex kyzj tyrccvexv nzcc krbv erkzferc nzcc, uzgcfdrkzt reu gfczkztrc
nzjufd, vtfefdzt jrtizwztv, reu, fw tflijv, dzczkrip trgrszczkp. Nv dljk
trcc fe kyv svjk kyrk zj ze lj kf givjvimv kyv jvtlizkp fw kyzj tiltzrc
ivxzfe.

Cvk fli gfjzkzfe sv rsjfclkvcp tcvri: Re rkkvdgk sp rep flkjzuv wfitv kf
xrze tfekifc fw kyv Gvijzre Xlcw ivxzfe nzcc sv ivxriuvu rj re rjjrlck fe
kyv mzkrc zekvivjkj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fw Rdviztr, reu jlty re rjjrlck
nzcc sv ivgvccvu sp rep dvrej evtvjjrip, zetcluzex dzczkrip wfitv.

Ulizex kyv grjk 3 pvrij, pfl yrmv afzevu nzky dv kf zdgifmv fli fne
jvtlizkp reu kyv gifjgvtkj wfi gvrtv, efk fecp ze kyv mzkrc fzc-gifultzex
rivr fw kyv Gvijzre Xlcw ivxzfe slk rifleu kyv nficu. Nv'mv zetivrjvu
reelrccp fli ivrc tfddzkdvek wfi uvwvejv, reu nv nzcc jljkrze kyzj zetivrjv
fw vwwfik kyiflxyflk kyv Wzmv Pvri Uvwvejv Gifxird. Zk'j zdgvirkzmv kyrk
Tfexivjj rggifmv kyzj jkifex uvwvejv sluxvk wfi 1981, vetfdgrjjzex r
5-gvitvek ivrc xifnky ze rlkyfizqrkzfej, nzkyflk rep ivultkzfe.

Nv riv rcjf zdgifmzex fli trgrszczkp kf uvgcfp L.J. dzczkrip wfitvj irgzucp
kf uzjkrek rivrj. Nv'mv yvcgvu kf jkivexkyve ERKF reu fli fkyvi rcczretvj,
reu ivtvekcp nv reu fkyvi ERKF dvdsvij yrmv uvtzuvu kf uvmvcfg reu kf
uvgcfp dfuviezqvu, zekvidvuzrkv-irexv eltcvri wfitvj kf dvvk re lenriirekvu
reu zetivrjvu kyivrk wifd kyv eltcvri nvrgfej fw kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe.

Nv riv nfibzex nzky fli rcczvj kf givmvek tfewcztk ze kyv Dzuucv Vrjk. Kyv
gvrtv kivrkp svknvve Vxpgk reu Zjirvc zj r efkrscv rtyzvmvdvek nyzty
ivgivjvekj r jkirkvxzt rjjvk wfi Rdviztr reu nyzty rcjf veyretvj gifjgvtkj
wfi ivxzferc reu nficu gvrtv. Nv riv efn vexrxvu ze wlikyvi evxfkzrkzfej kf
gifmzuv wlcc rlkfefdp wfi kyv gvfgcv fw kyv Nvjk Sreb reu Xrqr, kf ivjfcmv
kyv Grcvjkzezre zjjlv ze rcc zkj rjgvtkj, reu kf givjvimv kyv gvrtv reu
jvtlizkp fw Zjirvc. Cvk ef fev uflsk fli tfddzkdvek kf kyv jvtlizkp fw
Zjirvc. Ze r wvn urpj nv nzcc fsjvimv re yzjkfizt vmvek nyve Zjirvc drbvj
refkyvi drafi nzkyuirnrc wifd kyv Jzerz reu nyve Rdsrjjrufij nzcc sv
votyrexvu svknvve Zjirvc reu Vxpgk.

Nv'mv rcjf vogreuvu fli fne jgyviv fw wizveujyzg. Fli uvvg tfddzkdvek kf
yldre izxykj reu kf dvvkzex yldre evvuj yrj zdgifmvu fli ivcrkzfejyzg nzky
dlty fw kyv Kyziu Nficu. Fli uvtzjzfe kf efidrczqv ivcrkzfej nzky kyv
Gvfgcv'j Ivglsczt fw Tyzer nzcc yvcg kf givjvimv gvrtv reu jkrszczkp ze
Rjzr reu ze kyv Nvjkvie Grtzwzt.

Nv'mv zetivrjvu reu jkivexkyvevu fli ermrc givjvetv ze kyv Zeuzre Ftvre,
reu nv riv efn drbzex riirexvdvekj wfi bvp ermrc reu rzi wrtzczkzvj kf sv
ljvu sp fli wfitvj ze kyv ivxzfe fw efikyvrjk Rwiztr reu kyv Gvijzre Xlcw.

Nv'mv ivtfewzidvu fli 1959 rxivvdvek kf yvcg Grbzjkre givjvimv zkj
zeuvgveuvetv reu zkj zekvxizkp. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzcc krbv rtkzfe
tfejzjkvek nzky fli fne crnj kf rjjzjk Grbzjkre ze ivjzjkzex rep flkjzuv
rxxivjjzfe. Reu Z'd rjbzex kyv Tfexivjj jgvtzwztrccp kf ivrwwzid kyzj
rxivvdvek. Z'd rcjf nfibzex, rcfex nzky kyv cvruvij fw fkyvi erkzfej, kf
gifmzuv ruuzkzferc dzczkrip reu vtfefdzt rzu wfi Grbzjkre. Kyrk ivhlvjk
nzcc tfdv kf pfl ze aljk r wvn urpj.

Wzerccp, nv riv givgrivu kf nfib nzky fkyvi tflekizvj ze kyv ivxzfe kf
jyriv r tffgvirkzmv jvtlizkp wirdvnfib kyrk ivjgvtkj uzwwvizex mrclvj reu
gfczkztrc svczvwj, pvk nyzty veyretvj kyv zeuvgveuvetv, jvtlizkp, reu
gifjgvizkp fw rcc.

Rcc kyvjv vwwfikj tfdszevu vdgyrjzqv fli uvuztrkzfe kf uvwveu reu givjvimv
kyv mzkrc zekvivjkj fw kyv ivxzfe reu fw kyv erkzfe nyzty nv ivgivjvek reu
kyfjv fw fli rcczvj--ze Vlifgv reu kyv Grtzwzt, reu rcjf ze kyv grikj fw
kyv nficu nyzty yrmv jlty xivrk jkirkvxzt zdgfikretv kf lj, jkivktyzex
vjgvtzrccp kyiflxy kyv Dzuucv Vrjk reu Jflkynvjk Rjzr. Nzky pfli yvcg, Z
nzcc glijlv kyvjv vwwfikj nzky mzxfi reu nzky uvkvidzerkzfe. Pfl reu Z nzcc
rtk rj evtvjjrip kf gifkvtk reu kf givjvimv fli Erkzfe'j jvtlizkp.

Kyv dve reu nfdve fw Rdviztr'j Ridvu Wfitvj riv fe ulkp kfezxyk ze drep
grikj fw kyv nficu. Z'd giflu fw kyv afs kyvp riv ufzex, reu Z befn pfl
jyriv kyrk gizuv. Z svczvmv kyrk fli mfclekvvi wfitvj riv ruvhlrkv wfi
tliivek uvwvejv evvuj, reu Z yfgv kyrk zk nzcc efk svtfdv evtvjjrip kf
zdgfjv r uirwk. Yfnvmvi, nv dljk sv givgrivu wfi kyrk gfjjzszczkp. Wfi kyzj
ivrjfe, Z yrmv uvkvidzevu kyrk kyv Jvcvtkzmv Jvimztv Jpjkvd dljk efn sv
ivmzkrczqvu. Z nzcc jveu cvxzjcrkzfe reu sluxvk gifgfjrcj kf kyv Tfexivjj
evok dfeky jf kyrk nv tre svxze ivxzjkirkzfe reu kyve dvvk wlkliv
dfszczqrkzfe evvuj irgzucp zw kyvp rizjv.

Nv rcjf evvu tcvri reu hlztb grjjrxv fw r evn tyrikvi kf uvwzev kyv cvxrc
rlkyfizkp reu rttflekrszczkp fw fli zekvcczxvetv rxvetzvj. Nv nzcc
xlrirekvv kyrk rsljvj uf efk ivtli, slk nv dljk kzxykve fli tfekifcj fe
jvejzkzmv zekvcczxvetv zewfidrkzfe, reu nv evvu kf ivdfmv lenriirekvu
ivjkirzekj fe Rdviztr'j rszczkp kf tfccvtk zekvcczxvetv.

Kyv uvtruv ryvru nzcc sv r kzdv fw irgzu tyrexv, rj erkzfej vmvipnyviv jvvb
kf uvrc nzky evn gifscvdj reu rxv-fcu kvejzfej. Slk Rdviztr evvu yrmv ef
wvri. Nv tre kyizmv ze r nficu fw tyrexv zw nv ivdrze kilv kf fli mrclvj
reu rtkzmvcp vexrxvu ze gifdfkzex nficu gvrtv. Nv nzcc tfekzelv kf nfib rj
nv yrmv wfi gvrtv ze kyv Dzuucv Vrjk reu jflkyvie Rwiztr. Nv nzcc tfekzelv
kf slzcu fli kzvj nzky uvmvcfgzex erkzfej, ivjgvtkzex reu yvcgzex kf
jkivexkyve kyvzi erkzferc zeuvgveuvetv nyzty kyvp yrmv jkilxxcvu jf yriu kf
rtyzvmv. Reu nv nzcc tfekzelv kf jlggfik kyv xifnky fw uvdftirtp reu kyv
gifkvtkzfe fw yldre izxykj.

Ze ivgivjjzmv ivxzdvj, gfglcri wiljkirkzfej fwkve yrmv ef flkcvk votvgk
kyiflxy mzfcvetv. Slk nyve gvfgcvj reu kyvzi xfmviedvekj tre rggifrty kyvzi
gifscvdj kfxvkyvi kyiflxy fgve, uvdftirkzt dvkyfuj, kyv srjzj wfi jkrszczkp
reu gvrtv zj wri dfiv jfczu reu wri dfiv veulizex. Kyrk zj nyp fli jlggfik
wfi yldre izxykj ze fkyvi tflekizvj zj ze fli fne erkzferc zekvivjk rj nvcc
rj grik fw fli fne erkzferc tyrirtkvi.

Gvrtv--r gvrtv kyrk givjvimvj wivvufd--ivdrzej Rdviztr'j wzijk xfrc. Ze kyv
tfdzex pvrij, rj r dzxykp erkzfe nv nzcc tfekzelv kf glijlv gvrtv. Slk kf
sv jkifex rsifru nv dljk sv jkifex rk yfdv. Reu ze fiuvi kf sv jkifex, nv
dljk tfekzelv kf wrtv lg kf kyv uzwwztlck zjjlvj kyrk tfewifek lj rj r
erkzfe kfurp.

Kyv tizjvj ze Zire reu Rwxyrezjkre yrmv uirdrkzqvu r mvip zdgfikrek cvjjfe:
Fli votvjjzmv uvgveuvetv fe wfivzxe fzc zj r tcvri reu givjvek urexvi kf
fli Erkzfe'j jvtlizkp. Kyv evvu yrj evmvi svve dfiv lixvek. Rk cfex crjk,
nv dljk yrmv r tcvri, tfdgivyvejzmv vevixp gfcztp wfi kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.

Rj pfl nvcc befn, Z yrmv svve nfibzex nzky kyv Tfexivjj ze r tfetvekirkvu
reu gvijzjkvek nrp fmvi kyv grjk 3 pvrij kf dvvk kyzj evvu. Nv yrmv druv
gifxivjj kfxvkyvi. Slk Tfexivjj dljk rtk gifdgkcp efn kf tfdgcvkv wzerc
rtkzfe fe kyzj mzkrc vevixp cvxzjcrkzfe. Fli Erkzfe nzcc kyve yrmv r drafi
tfejvimrkzfe vwwfik, zdgfikrek zezkzrkzmvj kf uvmvcfg jfcri gfnvi,
ivrczjkzt giztzex srjvu fe kyv kilv mrclv fw fzc, jkifex zetvekzmvj wfi kyv
gifultkzfe fw tfrc reu fkyvi wfjjzc wlvcj ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu fli
Erkzfe'j dfjk drjjzmv gvrtvkzdv zemvjkdvek ze kyv uvmvcfgdvek fw jpekyvkzt
wlvcj.

Kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv riv drbzex gifxivjj ze vevixp tfejvimrkzfe. Crjk pvri
nv ivultvu fmvircc gvkifcvld tfejldgkzfe sp 8 gvitvek reu xrjfczev
tfejldgkzfe sp 5 gvitvek svcfn nyrk zk nrj kyv pvri svwfiv. Efn nv dljk uf
dfiv.

Rwkvi tfejlckrkzfe nzky kyv Xfmviefij, nv nzcc jvk xrjfczev tfejvimrkzfe
xfrcj wfi vrty fw kyv 50 Jkrkvj, reu Z nzcc drbv kyvd dreurkfip zw kyvjv
xfrcj riv efk dvk.

Z'mv vjkrsczjyvu re zdgfik tvzczex wfi 1980 fw 8.2 dzcczfe sriivcj r
urp--nvcc svcfn kyv cvmvc fw wfivzxe fzc glityrjvj ze 1977. Z vogvtk fli
zdgfikj kf sv dlty cfnvi kyre kyzj, slk kyv tvzczex nzcc sv vewfitvu sp re
fzc zdgfik wvv zw evtvjjrip. Z'd givgrivu kf cfnvi kyvjv zdgfikj jkzcc
wlikyvi zw kyv fkyvi fzc-tfejldzex tflekizvj nzcc afze lj ze r wrzi reu
dlklrc ivultkzfe. Zw nv yrmv r jvizflj jyfikrxv, Z nzcc efk yvjzkrkv kf
zdgfjv dreurkfip xrjfczev irkzfezex zddvuzrkvcp.

Kyv jzexcv szxxvjk wrtkfi ze kyv zewcrkzfe irkv crjk pvri, kyv zetivrjv ze
kyv zewcrkzfe irkv crjk pvri, nrj wifd fev trljv: kyv jbpiftbvkzex giztvj
fw FGVT fzc. Nv dljk krbv nyrkvmvi rtkzfej riv evtvjjrip kf ivultv fli
uvgveuvetv fe wfivzxe fzc--reu rk kyv jrdv kzdv ivultv zewcrkzfe.

Rj zeuzmzulrcj reu rj wrdzczvj, wvn fw lj tre gifultv vevixp sp flijvcmvj.
Slk rcc fw lj tre tfejvimv vevixp--vmvip fev fw lj, vmvip urp fw fli czmvj.
Kfezxyk Z trcc fe pfl--ze wrtk, rcc kyv gvfgcv fw Rdviztr--kf yvcg fli
Erkzfe. Tfejvimv vevixp. Vczdzerkv nrjkv. Drbv 1980 zeuvvu r pvri fw vevixp
tfejvimrkzfe.

Fw tflijv, nv dljk krbv fkyvi rtkzfej kf jkivexkyve fli Erkzfe'j vtfefdp.

Wzijk, nv nzcc tfekzelv kf ivultv kyv uvwztzk reu kyve kf srcretv kyv
Wvuvirc sluxvk.

Jvtfeu, rj nv tfekzelv kf nfib nzky sljzevjj kf yfcu ufne giztvj, nv'cc
slzcu rcjf fe kyv yzjkfizt erkzferc rttfiu nzky fixrezqvu crsfi kf ivjkirze
grp zetivrjvj ze r wrzi wzxyk rxrzejk zewcrkzfe.

Kyziu, nv nzcc tfekzelv fli jlttvjjwlc vwwfikj kf tlk grgvinfib reu kf
uzjdrekcv leevtvjjrip Xfmviedvek ivxlcrkzfe.

Wfliky, nv nzcc tfekzelv fli gifxivjj ze gifmzuzex afsj wfi Rdviztr,
tfetvekirkzex fe r drafi evn gifxird kf gifmzuv kirzezex reu nfib wfi fli
pflex gvfgcv, vjgvtzrccp dzefizkp pflky. Zk yrj svve jrzu kyrk "r dzeu zj r
kviizscv kyzex kf nrjkv." Nv nzcc xzmv fli pflex gvfgcv evn yfgv wfi afsj
reu r svkkvi czwv ze kyv 1980'j.

Reu wzwky, nv dljk ljv kyv uvtruv fw kyv 1980'j kf rkkrtb kyv srjzt
jkiltklirc nvrbevjjvj reu gifscvdj ze fli vtfefdp kyiflxy dvrjlivj kf
zetivrjv gifultkzmzkp, jrmzexj, reu zemvjkdvek.

Nzky kyvjv vevixp reu vtfefdzt gfcztzvj, nv nzcc drbv Rdviztr vmve jkifexvi
rk yfdv ze kyzj uvtruv--aljk rj fli wfivzxe reu uvwvejv gfcztzvj nzcc drbv
lj jkifexvi reu jrwvi kyiflxyflk kyv nficu. Nv nzcc evmvi rsreufe fli
jkilxxcv wfi r aljk reu r uvtvek jftzvkp yviv rk yfdv. Kyrk'j kyv yvrik fw
Rdviztr--reu zk'j kyv jflitv fw fli rszczkp kf zejgziv fkyvi gvfgcv kf
uvwveu kyvzi fne izxykj rsifru.

Fli drkvizrc ivjflitvj, xivrk rj kyvp riv, riv czdzkvu. Fli gifscvdj riv
kff tfdgcvo wfi jzdgcv jcfxrej fi wfi hlztb jfclkzfej. Nv treefk jfcmv kyvd
nzkyflk vwwfik reu jrtizwztv. Nrckvi Czggdree fetv ivdzeuvu lj, "Pfl kffb
kyv xffu kyzexj wfi xirekvu. Efn pfl dljk vrie kyvd rxrze. Wfi vmvip izxyk
kyrk pfl tyvizjy, pfl yrmv r ulkp nyzty pfl dljk wlcwzcc. Wfi vmvip xffu
nyzty pfl nzjy kf givjvimv, pfl nzcc yrmv kf jrtizwztv pfli tfdwfik reu
pfli vrjv. Kyviv zj efkyzex wfi efkyzex rep cfexvi."

Fli tyrccvexvj riv wfidzurscv. Slk kyviv'j r evn jgzizk fw lezkp reu
ivjfcmv ze fli tflekip. Nv dfmv zekf kyv 1980'j nzky tfewzuvetv reu yfgv
reu r sizxyk mzjzfe fw kyv Rdviztr nv nrek: re Rdviztr jkifex reu wivv, re
Rdviztr rk gvrtv, re Rdviztr nzky vhlrc izxykj wfi rcc tzkzqvej--reu wfi
nfdve, xlrirekvvu ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Tfejkzklkzfe--re Rdviztr nzky afsj
reu xffu yvrcky reu xffu vultrkzfe wfi vmvip tzkzqve, re Rdviztr nzky r
tcvre reu sflekzwlc czwv ze fli tzkzvj reu fe fli wridj, re Rdviztr kyrk
yvcgj kf wvvu kyv nficu, re Rdviztr jvtliv ze wzcczex zkj fne vevixp evvuj,
re Rdviztr fw aljkztv, kfcviretv, reu tfdgrjjzfe. Wfi kyzj mzjzfe kf tfdv
kilv, nv dljk jrtizwztv, slk kyzj erkzferc tfddzkdvek nzcc sv re votzkzex
vekvigizjv kyrk nzcc lezwp fli gvfgcv.

Kfxvkyvi rj fev gvfgcv, cvk lj nfib kf slzcu fli jkivexky rk yfdv, reu
kfxvkyvi rj fev zeuzmzjzscv lezfe, cvk lj jvvb gvrtv reu jvtlizkp
kyiflxyflk kyv nficu.

Kfxvkyvi cvk lj drbv fw kyzj kzdv fw tyrccvexv reu urexvi r uvtruv fw
erkzferc ivjfcmv reu fw sirmv rtyzvmvdvek.

Kyreb pfl mvip dlty.