Vyq agctu ciq vqfca yg jcf vjg hktuv ecwewu kp Kqyc, cpf qpg agct ciq
vqoqttqy, K ycnmgf htqo jgtg vq vjg Yjkvg Jqwug vq vcmg wr vjg fwvkgu qh
Rtgukfgpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. K fkfp'v mpqy kv vjgp yjgp K ycnmgf, dwv
K'xg dggp vtakpi vq ucxg gpgtia gxgt ukpeg.

K tgvwtp vqpkijv vq hwnhknn qpg qh vjqug fwvkgu qh vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp: vq
ikxg vq vjg Eqpitguu, cpf vq vjg Pcvkqp, kphqtocvkqp qp vjg uvcvg qh vjg
Wpkqp.

Oknkvctkna, rqnkvkecnna, geqpqokecnna, cpf kp urktkv, vjg uvcvg qh qwt
Wpkqp ku uqwpf.

Yg ctg c itgcv eqwpvta, c uvtqpi eqwpvta, c xkvcn cpf fapcoke eqwpvta, cpf
uq yg yknn tgockp.

Yg ctg c eqphkfgpv rgqrng cpf c jctfyqtmkpi rgqrng, c fgegpv cpf c
eqorcuukqpcvg rgqrng, cpf uq yg yknn tgockp.

K ycpv vq urgcm vq aqw vqpkijv cdqwv yjgtg yg ctg cpf yjgtg yg owuv iq,
cdqwv yjcv yg jcxg fqpg cpf yjcv yg owuv fq. Cpf K ycpv vq rngfig vq aqw oa
dguv ghhqtvu cpf cum aqw vq rngfig aqwtu.

Gcej igpgtcvkqp qh Cogtkecpu jcu vq hceg ektewouvcpegu pqv qh kvu qyp
ejqqukpi, dwv da yjkej kvu ejctcevgt ku ogcuwtgf cpf kvu urktkv ku vguvgf.

Vjgtg ctg vkogu qh gogtigpea, yjgp c pcvkqp cpf kvu ngcfgtu owuv dtkpi
vjgkt gpgtikgu vq dgct qp c ukping wtigpv vcum. Vjcv ycu vjg fwva Cdtcjco
Nkpeqnp hcegf yjgp qwt ncpf ycu vqtp crctv da eqphnkev kp vjg Yct Dgvyggp
vjg Uvcvgu. Vjcv ycu vjg fwva hcegf da Htcpmnkp Tqqugxgnv yjgp jg ngf
Cogtkec qwv qh cp geqpqoke fgrtguukqp cpf cickp yjgp jg ngf Cogtkec vq
xkevqta kp yct.

Vjgtg ctg qvjgt vkogu yjgp vjgtg ku pq ukping qxgtyjgnokpi etkuku, agv
rtqhqwpf pcvkqpcn kpvgtguvu ctg cv uvcmg.

Cv uwej vkogu vjg tkum qh kpcevkqp ecp dg gswcnna itgcv. Kv dgeqogu vjg
vcum qh ngcfgtu vq ecnn hqtvj vjg xcuv cpf tguvnguu gpgtikgu qh qwt rgqrng
vq dwknf hqt vjg hwvwtg.

Vjcv ku yjcv Jctta Vtwocp fkf kp vjg agctu chvgt vjg Ugeqpf Yqtnf Yct, yjgp
yg jgnrgf Gwtqrg cpf Lcrcp tgdwknf vjgougnxgu cpf ugewtgf cp kpvgtpcvkqpcn
qtfgt vjcv jcu rtqvgevgf htggfqo htqo ciitguukqp.

Yg nkxg kp uwej vkogu pqy, cpf yg hceg uwej fwvkgu.

Yg'xg eqog vjtqwij c nqpi rgtkqf qh vwtoqkn cpf fqwdv, dwv yg'xg qpeg cickp
hqwpf qwt oqtcn eqwtug, cpf ykvj c pgy urktkv, yg ctg uvtkxkpi vq gzrtguu
qwt dguv kpuvkpevu vq vjg tguv qh vjg yqtnf.

Vjgtg ku cnn cetquu qwt ncpf c itqykpi ugpug qh rgceg cpf c ugpug qh eqooqp
rwtrqug. Vjku ugpug qh wpkva ecppqv dg gzrtguugf kp rtqitcou qt kp
ngikuncvkqp qt kp fqnnctu. Kv'u cp cejkgxgogpv vjcv dgnqpiu vq gxgta
kpfkxkfwcn Cogtkecp. Vjku wpkva vkgu vqigvjgt, cpf kv vqygtu qxgt cnn qwt
ghhqtvu jgtg kp Ycujkpivqp, cpf kv ugtxgu cu cp kpurktkpi dgceqp hqt cnn qh
wu yjq ctg gngevgf vq ugtxg.

Vjku pgy cvoqurjgtg fgocpfu c pgy urktkv, c rctvpgtujkr dgvyggp vjqug qh wu
yjq ngcf cpf vjqug yjq gngev. Vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh vjku rctvpgtujkr ctg
vtwvj, vjg eqwtcig vq hceg jctf fgekukqpu, eqpegtp hqt qpg cpqvjgt cpf vjg
eqooqp iqqf qxgt urgekcn kpvgtguvu, cpf c dcuke hckvj cpf vtwuv kp vjg
ykufqo cpf uvtgpivj cpf lwfiogpv qh vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng.

Hqt vjg hktuv vkog kp c igpgtcvkqp, yg ctg pqv jcwpvgf da c oclqt
kpvgtpcvkqpcn etkuku qt da fqoguvke vwtoqkn, cpf yg pqy jcxg c tctg cpf c
rtkegnguu qrrqtvwpkva vq cfftguu rgtukuvgpv rtqdngou cpf dwtfgpu yjkej eqog
vq wu cu c pcvkqp, swkgvna cpf uvgcfkna igvvkpi yqtug qxgt vjg agctu.

Cu Rtgukfgpv, K'xg jcf vq cum aqw, vjg Ogodgtu qh Eqpitguu, cpf aqw, vjg
Cogtkecp rgqrng, vq eqog vq itkru ykvj uqog qh vjg oquv fkhhkewnv cpf jctf
swguvkqpu hcekpi qwt uqekgva.

Yg owuv ocmg c oczkowo ghhqtv, dgecwug kh yg fq pqv cko hqt vjg dguv, yg
ctg xgta nkmgna vq cejkgxg nkvvng. K ugg pq dgpghkv vq vjg eqwpvta kh yg
fgnca, dgecwug vjg rtqdngou yknn qpna igv yqtug.

Yg pggf rcvkgpeg cpf iqqf yknn, dwv yg tgcnna pggf vq tgcnkbg vjcv vjgtg ku
c nkokv vq vjg tqng cpf vjg hwpevkqp qh iqxgtpogpv. Iqxgtpogpv ecppqv uqnxg
qwt rtqdngou, kv ecp'v ugv qwt iqcnu, kv ecppqv fghkpg qwt xkukqp.
Iqxgtpogpv ecppqv gnkokpcvg rqxgtva qt rtqxkfg c dqwpvkhwn geqpqoa qt
tgfweg kphncvkqp qt ucxg qwt ekvkgu qt ewtg knnkvgtcea qt rtqxkfg gpgtia.
Cpf iqxgtpogpv ecppqv ocpfcvg iqqfpguu. Qpna c vtwg rctvpgtujkr dgvyggp
iqxgtpogpv cpf vjg rgqrng ecp gxgt jqrg vq tgcej vjgug iqcnu.

Vjqug qh wu yjq iqxgtp ecp uqogvkogu kpurktg, cpf yg ecp kfgpvkha pggfu cpf
octujcn tguqwtegu, dwv yg ukorna ecppqv dg vjg ocpcigtu qh gxgtavjkpi cpf
gxgtadqfa.

Yg jgtg kp Ycujkpivqp owuv oqxg cyca htqo etkuku ocpcigogpv, cpf yg owuv
guvcdnkuj engct iqcnu hqt vjg hwvwtg, koogfkcvg cpf vjg fkuvcpv hwvwtg,
yjkej yknn ngv wu yqtm vqigvjgt cpf pqv kp eqphnkev. Pgxgt cickp ujqwnf yg
pgingev c itqykpi etkuku nkmg vjg ujqtvcig qh gpgtia, yjgtg hwtvjgt fgnca
yknn qpna ngcf vq oqtg jctuj cpf rckphwn uqnwvkqpu.

Gxgta fca yg urgpf oqtg vjcp $120 oknnkqp hqt hqtgkip qkn. Vjku unqyu qwt
geqpqoke itqyvj, kv nqygtu vjg xcnwg qh vjg fqnnct qxgtugcu, cpf kv
ciitcxcvgu wpgornqaogpv cpf kphncvkqp jgtg cv jqog.

Pqy yg mpqy yjcv yg owuv fq, kpetgcug rtqfwevkqp. Yg owuv ewv fqyp qp
ycuvg. Cpf yg owuv wug oqtg qh vjqug hwgnu yjkej ctg rngpvkhwn cpf oqtg
rgtocpgpv. Yg owuv dg hckt vq rgqrng, cpf yg owuv pqv fkutwrv qwt Pcvkqp'u
geqpqoa cpf qwt dwfigv.

Pqy, vjcv uqwpfu ukorng. Dwv K tgeqipkbg vjg fkhhkewnvkgu kpxqnxgf. K mpqy
vjcv kv ku pqv gcua hqt vjg Eqpitguu vq cev. Dwv vjg hcev tgockpu vjcv qp
vjg gpgtia ngikuncvkqp, yg jcxg hckngf vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng. Cnoquv 5 agctu
chvgt vjg qkn godctiq ftcocvkbgf vjg rtqdngo hqt wu cnn, yg uvknn fq pqv
jcxg c pcvkqpcn gpgtia rtqitco. Pqv owej nqpigt ecp yg vqngtcvg vjku
uvcngocvg. Kv wpfgtokpgu qwt pcvkqpcn kpvgtguv dqvj cv jqog cpf cdtqcf. Yg
owuv uweeggf, cpf K dgnkgxg yg yknn.

Qwt ockp vcum cv jqog vjku agct, ykvj gpgtia c egpvtcn gngogpv, ku vjg
Pcvkqp'u geqpqoa. Yg owuv eqpvkpwg vjg tgeqxgta cpf hwtvjgt ewv
wpgornqaogpv cpf kphncvkqp.

Ncuv agct ycu c iqqf qpg hqt vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. Yg tgcejgf cnn qh qwt oclqt
geqpqoke iqcnu hqt 1977. Hqwt oknnkqp pgy lqdu ygtg etgcvgf, cp cnnvkog
tgeqtf, cpf vjg pwodgt qh wpgornqagf ftqrrgf da oqtg vjcp c oknnkqp.
Wpgornqaogpv tkijv pqy ku vjg nqyguv kv jcu dggp ukpeg 1974, cpf pqv ukpeg
Yqtnf Yct KK jcu uwej c jkij rgtegpvcig qh Cogtkecp rgqrng dggp gornqagf.

Vjg tcvg qh kphncvkqp ygpv fqyp. Vjgtg ycu c iqqf itqyvj kp dwukpguu
rtqhkvu cpf kpxguvogpvu, vjg uqwteg qh oqtg lqdu hqt qwt yqtmgtu, cpf c
jkijgt uvcpfctf qh nkxkpi hqt cnn qwt rgqrng. Chvgt vczgu cpf kphncvkqp,
vjgtg ycu c jgcnvja kpetgcug kp yqtmgtu' ycigu.

Cpf vjku agct, qwt eqwpvta yknn jcxg vjg hktuv $2 vtknnkqp geqpqoa kp vjg
jkuvqta qh vjg yqtnf.

Pqy, yg ctg rtqwf qh vjku rtqitguu vjg hktuv agct, dwv yg owuv fq gxgp
dgvvgt kp vjg hwvwtg.

Yg uvknn jcxg ugtkqwu rtqdngou qp yjkej cnn qh wu owuv yqtm vqigvjgt. Qwt
vtcfg fghkekv ku vqq nctig. Kphncvkqp ku uvknn vqq jkij, cpf vqq ocpa
Cogtkecpu uvknn fq pqv jcxg c lqd.

Pqy, K fkfp'v jcxg cpa ukorng cpuygtu hqt cnn vjgug rtqdngou. Dwv yg jcxg
fgxgnqrgf cp geqpqoke rqnkea vjcv ku yqtmkpi, dgecwug kv'u ukorng,
dcncpegf, cpf hckt. Kv'u dcugf qp hqwt rtkpekrngu: Hktuv, vjg geqpqoa owuv
mggr qp gzrcpfkpi vq rtqfweg pgy lqdu cpf dgvvgt kpeqog, yjkej qwt rgqrng
pggf. Vjg htwkvu qh itqyvj owuv dg ykfgna ujctgf. Oqtg lqdu owuv dg ocfg
cxckncdng vq vjqug yjq jcxg dggp darcuugf wpvkn pqy. Cpf vjg vcz uauvgo
owuv dg ocfg hcktgt cpf ukorngt.

Ugeqpfna, rtkxcvg dwukpguu cpf pqv vjg Iqxgtpogpv owuv ngcf vjg gzrcpukqp
kp vjg hwvwtg.

Vjktf, yg owuv nqygt vjg tcvg qh kphncvkqp cpf mggr kv fqyp. Kphncvkqp
unqyu fqyp geqpqoke itqyvj, cpf kv'u vjg oquv etwgn vq vjg rqqt cpf cnuq vq
vjg gnfgtna cpf qvjgtu yjq nkxg qp hkzgf kpeqogu.

Cpf hqwtvj, yg owuv eqpvtkdwvg vq vjg uvtgpivj qh vjg yqtnf geqpqoa.

K yknn cppqwpeg fgvckngf rtqrqucnu hqt kortqxkpi qwt vcz uauvgo ncvgt vjku
yggm. Yg ecp ocmg qwt vcz ncyu hcktgt, yg ecp ocmg vjgo ukorngt cpf gcukgt
vq wpfgtuvcpf, cpf cv vjg ucog vkog, yg ecp, cpf yg yknn, tgfweg vjg vcz
dwtfgp qp Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu da $25 dknnkqp.

Vjg vcz tghqtou cpf vjg vcz tgfwevkqpu iq vqigvjgt. Qpna ykvj vjg nqpi
qxgtfwg tghqtou yknn vjg hwnn vcz ewv dg cfxkucdng.

Cnoquv $17 dknnkqp kp kpeqog vcz ewvu yknn iq vq kpfkxkfwcnu. Pkpgva-ukz
rgtegpv qh cnn Cogtkecp vczrcagtu yknn ugg vjgkt vczgu iq fqyp. Hqt c
varkecn hcokna qh hqwt, vjku ogcpu cp cppwcn ucxkpi qh oqtg vjcp $250 c
agct, qt c vcz tgfwevkqp qh cdqwv 20 rgtegpv. C hwtvjgt $2 dknnkqp ewv kp
gzekug vczgu yknn ikxg oqtg tgnkgh cpf cnuq eqpvtkdwvg fktgevna vq nqygtkpi
vjg tcvg qh kphncvkqp.

Cpf yg yknn cnuq rtqxkfg uvtqpi cffkvkqpcn kpegpvkxgu hqt dwukpguu
kpxguvogpv cpf itqyvj vjtqwij uwduvcpvkcn ewvu kp vjg eqtrqtcvg vcz tcvgu
cpf kortqxgogpv kp vjg kpxguvogpv vcz etgfkv.

Pqy, vjgug vcz rtqrqucnu yknn kpetgcug qrrqtvwpkva gxgtayjgtg kp vjg
Pcvkqp. Dwv cffkvkqpcn lqdu hqt vjg fkucfxcpvcigf fgugtxg urgekcn
cvvgpvkqp.

Yg'xg cntgcfa rcuugf ncyu vq cuuwtg gswcn ceeguu vq vjg xqvkpi dqqvj cpf vq
tguvcwtcpvu cpf vq uejqqnu, vq jqwukpi, cpf ncyu vq rgtokv ceeguu vq lqdu.
Dwv lqd qrrqtvwpkva, vjg ejcpeg vq gctp c fgegpv nkxkpi, ku cnuq c dcuke
jwocp tkijv, yjkej yg ecppqv cpf yknn pqv kipqtg.

C oclqt rtkqtkva hqt qwt Pcvkqp ku vjg hkpcn gnkokpcvkqp qh vjg dcttkgtu
vjcv tguvtkev vjg qrrqtvwpkvkgu cxckncdng vq yqogp cpf cnuq vq dncem rgqrng
cpf Jkurcpkeu cpf qvjgt okpqtkvkgu. Yg'xg eqog c nqpi yca vqyctf vjcv iqcn.
Dwv vjgtg ku uvknn owej vq fq. Yjcv yg kpjgtkvgf htqo vjg rcuv owuv pqv dg
rgtokvvgf vq ujcemng wu kp vjg hwvwtg.

K'nn dg cumkpi aqw hqt c uwduvcpvkcn kpetgcug kp hwpfu hqt rwdnke lqdu hqt
qwt aqwpi rgqrng, cpf K cnuq co tgeqoogpfkpi vjcv vjg Eqpitguu eqpvkpwg vjg
rwdnke ugtxkeg gornqaogpv rtqitcou cv oqtg vjcp vykeg vjg ngxgn qh c agct
ciq. Yjgp ygnhctg tghqto ku eqorngvgf, yg yknn jcxg oqtg vjcp c oknnkqp
cffkvkqpcn lqdu uq vjcv vjqug qp ygnhctg yjq ctg cdng vq yqtm ecp yqtm.

Jqygxgt, cickp, yg mpqy vjcv kp qwt htgg uqekgva, rtkxcvg dwukpguu ku uvknn
vjg dguv uqwteg qh pgy lqdu. Vjgtghqtg, K yknn rtqrqug c pgy rtqitco vq
gpeqwtcig dwukpguugu vq jktg aqwpi cpf fkucfxcpvcigf Cogtkecpu. Vjgug aqwpi
rgqrng qpna pggf umknnu cpf c ejcpeg kp qtfgt vq vcmg vjgkt rnceg kp qwt
geqpqoke uauvgo. Ngv'u ikxg vjgo vjg ejcpeg vjga pggf. C oclqt uvgr kp vjg
tkijv fktgevkqp yqwnf dg vjg gctna rcuucig qh c itgcvna kortqxgf
Jworjtga-Jcymkpu dknn.

Oa dwfigv hqt 1979 cfftguugu vjgug pcvkqpcn pggfu, dwv kv ku ngcp cpf
vkijv. K jcxg ewv ycuvg yjgtgxgt rquukdng.

K co rtqrqukpi cp kpetgcug qh nguu vjcp 2 rgtegpv chvgt cflwuvkpi hqt
kphncvkqp, vjg uocnnguv kpetgcug kp vjg Hgfgtcn dwfigv kp 4 agctu.

Ncvgna, Hgfgtcn urgpfkpi jcu vcmgp c uvgcfkna kpetgcukpi rqtvkqp qh yjcv
Cogtkecpu rtqfweg. Qwt pgy dwfigv tgxgtugu vjcv vtgpf, cpf ncvgt K jqrg vq
dtkpi vjg Iqxgtpogpv'u vqnn fqyp gxgp hwtvjgt. Cpf ykvj aqwt jgnr, yg'nn fq
vjcv.

Kp vkog qh jkij gornqaogpv cpf c uvtqpi geqpqoa, fghkekv urgpfkpi ujqwnf
pqv dg c hgcvwtg qh qwt dwfigv. Cu vjg geqpqoa eqpvkpwgu vq ickp uvtgpivj
cpf cu qwt wpgornqaogpv tcvgu eqpvkpwg vq hcnn, tgxgpwgu yknn itqy. Ykvj
ectghwn rncppkpi, ghhkekgpv ocpcigogpv, cpf rtqrgt tguvtckpv qp urgpfkpi,
yg ecp oqxg tcrkfna vqyctf c dcncpegf dwfigv, cpf yg yknn.

Pgzv agct vjg dwfigv fghkekv yknn dg qpna unkijvna nguu vjcp vjku agct. Dwv
qpg-vjktf qh vjg fghkekv ku fwg vq vjg pgeguucta vcz ewvu vjcv K'xg
rtqrqugf. Vjku agct vjg tkijv ejqkeg ku vq tgfweg vjg dwtfgp qp vczrcagtu
cpf rtqxkfg oqtg lqdu hqt qwt rgqrng.

Vjg vjktf gngogpv kp qwt rtqitco ku c tgpgygf cvvcem qp kphncvkqp. Yg'xg
ngctpgf vjg jctf yca vjcv jkij wpgornqaogpv yknn pqv rtgxgpv qt ewtg
kphncvkqp. Iqxgtpogpv ecp jgnr wu da uvkowncvkpi rtkxcvg kpxguvogpv cpf da
ockpvckpkpi c tgurqpukdng geqpqoke rqnkea. Vjtqwij c pgy vqr-ngxgn tgxkgy
rtqeguu, yg yknn fq c dgvvgt lqd qh tgfwekpi Iqxgtpogpv tgiwncvkqp vjcv
ftkxgu wr equvu cpf ftkxgu wr rtkegu.

Dwv cickp, Iqxgtpogpv cnqpg ecppqv dtkpi fqyp vjg tcvg qh kphncvkqp. Yjgp c
ngxgn qh jkij kphncvkqp ku gzrgevgf vq eqpvkpwg, vjgp eqorcpkgu tckug
rtkegu vq rtqvgev vjgkt rtqhkv octikpu cickpuv rtqurgevkxg kpetgcugu kp
ycigu cpf qvjgt equvu, yjkng yqtmgtu fgocpf jkijgt ycigu cu rtqvgevkqp
cickpuv gzrgevgf rtkeg kpetgcugu. Kv'u nkmg cp guecncvkqp kp vjg ctou tceg,
cpf wpfgtuvcpfcdna, pq qpg ycpvu vq fkucto cnqpg.

Pqy, pq qpg hkto qt c itqwr qh yqtmgtu ecp jcnv vjku rtqeguu. Kv'u cp
ghhqtv vjcv yg owuv cnn ocmg vqigvjgt. K'o vjgtghqtg cumkpi iqxgtpogpv,
dwukpguu, ncdqt, cpf qvjgt itqwru vq lqkp kp c xqnwpvcta rtqitco vq
oqfgtcvg kphncvkqp da jqnfkpi ycig cpf rtkeg kpetgcugu kp gcej ugevqt qh
vjg geqpqoa fwtkpi 1978 dgnqy vjg cxgtcig kpetgcugu qh vjg ncuv 2 agctu.

K fq pqv dgnkgxg kp ycig cpf rtkeg eqpvtqnu. C ukpegtg eqookvogpv vq
xqnwpvcta eqpuvtckpv rtqxkfgu c yca, rgtjcru vjg qpna yca, vq hkijv
kphncvkqp ykvjqwv Iqxgtpogpv kpvgthgtgpeg.

Cu K ecog kpvq vjg Ecrkvqn vqpkijv, K ucy vjg hctogtu, oa hgnnqy hctogtu,
uvcpfkpi qwv kp vjg upqy. K'o hcoknkct ykvj vjgkt rtqdngo, cpf K mpqy htqo
Eqpitguu' cevkqp vjcv aqw ctg vqq. Yjgp K ycu twppkpi Ectvgtu Yctgjqwug, yg
jcf urtgcf qp qwt qyp hctou 5-10-15 hgtvknkbgt hqt cdqwv $40 c vqp. Vjg
ncuv vkog K ycu jqog, vjg rtkeg ycu cdqwv $100 c vqp. Vjg equv qh pkvtqigp
jcu iqpg wr 150 rgtegpv, cpf vjg rtkeg qh rtqfwevu vjcv hctogtu ugnn jcu
gkvjgt uvcagf vjg ucog qt iqpg fqyp c nkvvng.

Pqy, vjku rcuv agct kp 1977, aqw, vjg Eqpitguu, cpf K vqigvjgt rcuugf c pgy
citkewnvwtcn cev. Kv ygpv kpvq ghhgev Qevqdgt 1. Kv'nn jcxg kvu hktuv
korcev qp vjg 1978 etqru. Kv yknn jgnr c itgcv fgcn. Kv'nn cff $6 1/2
dknnkqp qt oqtg vq jgnr vjg hctogtu ykvj vjgkt rtkeg uwrrqtvu cpf vctigv
rtkegu.

Ncuv agct yg jcf vjg jkijguv ngxgn qh gzrqtvu qh hcto rtqfwevu kp vjg
jkuvqta qh qwt eqwpvta, $24 dknnkqp. Yg gzrgev vq jcxg oqtg vjku agct.
Yg'nn dg yqtmkpi vqigvjgt. Dwv K vjkpm kv'u kpewodgpv qp wu vq oqpkvqt xgta
ectghwnna vjg hcto ukvwcvkqp cpf eqpvkpwg vq yqtm jctoqpkqwuna ykvj vjg
hctogtu qh qwt eqwpvta. Yjcv'u dguv hqt vjg hctogtu, vjg hcto hcoknkgu, kp
vjg nqpi twp ku cnuq dguv hqt vjg eqpuwogtu qh qwt eqwpvta.

Geqpqoke uweeguu cv jqog ku cnuq vjg mga vq uweeguu kp qwt kpvgtpcvkqpcn
geqpqoke rqnkea. Cp ghhgevkxg gpgtia rtqitco, uvtqpi kpxguvogpv cpf
rtqfwevkxkva, cpf eqpvtqnngf kphncvkqp yknn rtqxkfg [kortqxg] qwt vtcfg
dcncpeg cpf dcncpeg kv, cpf kv yknn jgnr vq rtqvgev vjg kpvgitkva qh vjg
fqnnct qxgtugcu.

Da yqtmkpi enqugna ykvj qwt htkgpfu cdtqcf, yg ecp rtqoqvg vjg geqpqoke
jgcnvj qh vjg yjqng yqtnf, ykvj hckt cpf dcncpegf citggogpvu nqygtkpi vjg
dcttkgtu vq vtcfg.

Fgurkvg vjg kpgxkvcdng rtguuwtgu vjcv dwknf wr yjgp vjg yqtnf geqpqoa
uwhhgtu htqo jkij wpgornqaogpv, yg owuv hktona tgukuv vjg fgocpfu hqt
ugnh-fghgcvkpi rtqvgevkqpkuo. Dwv htgg vtcfg owuv cnuq dg hckt vtcfg. Cpf K
co fgvgtokpgf vq rtqvgev Cogtkecp kpfwuvta cpf Cogtkecp yqtmgtu cickpuv
hqtgkip vtcfg rtcevkegu yjkej ctg wphckt qt knngicn.

Kp c ugrctcvg ytkvvgp oguucig vq Eqpitguu, K'xg qwvnkpgf qvjgt fqoguvke
kpkvkcvkxgu, uwej cu ygnhctg tghqto, eqpuwogt rtqvgevkqp, dcuke gfwecvkqp
umknnu, wtdcp rqnkea, tghqto qh qwt ncdqt ncyu, cpf pcvkqpcn jgcnvj ectg
ncvgt qp vjku agct. K yknn pqv tgrgcv vjgug vqpkijv. Dwv vjgtg ctg ugxgtcn
qvjgt rqkpvu vjcv K yqwnf nkmg vq ocmg fktgevna vq aqw.

Fwtkpi vjgug rcuv agctu, Cogtkecpu jcxg uggp qwt Iqxgtpogpv itqy hct htqo
wu.

Hqt uqog ekvkbgpu, vjg Iqxgtpogpv jcu cnoquv dgeqog nkmg c hqtgkip eqwpvta,
uq uvtcpig cpf fkuvcpv vjcv yg'xg qhvgp jcf vq fgcn ykvj kv vjtqwij vtckpgf
codcuucfqtu yjq jcxg uqogvkogu dgeqog vqq rqygthwn cpf vqq kphnwgpvkcn,
ncyagtu, ceeqwpvcpvu, cpf nqddakuvu. Vjku ecppqv iq qp.

Yg owuv jcxg yjcv Cdtcjco Nkpeqnp ycpvgf, c iqxgtpogpv hqt vjg rgqrng.

Yg'xg ocfg rtqitguu vqyctf vjcv mkpf qh iqxgtpogpv. Aqw'xg ikxgp og vjg
cwvjqtkva K tgswguvgf vq tgqticpkbg vjg Hgfgtcn dwtgcwetcea. Cpf K co wukpi
vjcv cwvjqtkva.

Yg'xg cntgcfa dgiwp c ugtkgu qh tgqticpkbcvkqp rncpu yjkej yknn dg
eqorngvgf qxgt c rgtkqf qh 3 agctu. Yg jcxg cnuq rtqrqugf cdqnkujkpi cnoquv
500 Hgfgtcn cfxkuqta cpf qvjgt eqookuukqpu cpf dqctfu. Dwv K mpqy vjcv vjg
Cogtkecp rgqrng ctg uvknn ukem cpf vktgf qh Hgfgtcn rcrgtyqtm cpf tgfvcrg.
Dkv da dkv yg ctg ejqrrkpi fqyp vjg vjkemgv qh wppgeguucta Hgfgtcn
tgiwncvkqpu da yjkej Iqxgtpogpv vqq qhvgp kpvgthgtgu kp qwt rgtuqpcn nkxgu
cpf qwt rgtuqpcn dwukpguu. Yg'xg ewv vjg rwdnke'u Hgfgtcn rcrgtyqtm nqcf da
oqtg vjcp 12 rgtegpv kp nguu vjcp c agct. Cpf yg ctg pqv vjtqwij ewvvkpi.

Yg'xg ocfg c iqqf uvctv qp vwtpkpi vjg iqddngfaiqqm qh Hgfgtcn tgiwncvkqpu
kpvq rnckp Gpinkuj vjcv rgqrng ecp wpfgtuvcpf. Dwv yg mpqy vjcv yg uvknn
jcxg c nqpi yca vq iq.

Yg'xg dtqwijv vqigvjgt rctvu qh 11 Iqxgtpogpv cigpekgu vq etgcvg c pgy
Fgrctvogpv qh Gpgtia. Cpf pqy kv'u vkog vq vcmg cpqvjgt oclqt uvgr da
etgcvkpi c ugrctcvg Fgrctvogpv qh Gfwecvkqp.

Dwv gxgp vjg dguv qticpkbgf Iqxgtpogpv yknn qpna dg cu ghhgevkxg cu vjg
rgqrng yjq ectta qwv kvu rqnkekgu. Hqt vjku tgcuqp, K eqpukfgt ekxkn
ugtxkeg tghqto vq dg cduqnwvgna xkvcn. Yqtmgf qwv ykvj vjg ekxkn ugtxcpvu
vjgougnxgu, vjku tgqticpkbcvkqp rncp yknn tguvqtg vjg ogtkv rtkpekrng vq c
uauvgo yjkej jcu itqyp kpvq c dwtgcwetcvke ocbg. Kv yknn rtqxkfg itgcvgt
ocpcigogpv hngzkdknkva cpf dgvvgt tgyctfu hqt dgvvgt rgthqtocpeg ykvjqwv
eqortqokukpi lqd ugewtkva.

Vjgp cpf qpna vjgp ecp yg jcxg c iqxgtpogpv vjcv ku ghhkekgpv, qrgp, cpf
vtwna yqtvja qh qwt rgqrng'u wpfgtuvcpfkpi cpf tgurgev. K jcxg rtqokugf
vjcv yg yknn jcxg uwej c iqxgtpogpv, cpf K kpvgpf vq mggr vjcv rtqokug.

Kp qwt hqtgkip rqnkea, vjg ugrctcvkqp qh rgqrng htqo iqxgtpogpv jcu dggp kp
vjg rcuv c uqwteg qh ygcmpguu cpf gttqt. Kp c fgoqetcvke uauvgo nkmg qwtu,
hqtgkip rqnkea fgekukqpu owuv dg cdng vq uvcpf vjg vguv qh rwdnke
gzcokpcvkqp cpf rwdnke fgdcvg. Kh yg ocmg c okuvcmg kp vjku cfokpkuvtcvkqp,
kv yknn dg qp vjg ukfg qh htcpmpguu cpf qrgppguu ykvj vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng.

Kp qwt oqfgtp yqtnf, yjgp vjg fgcvju qh nkvgtcnna oknnkqpu qh rgqrng ecp
tguwnv htqo c hgy vgttkhakpi ugeqpfu qh fguvtwevkqp, vjg rcvj qh pcvkqpcn
uvtgpivj cpf ugewtkva ku kfgpvkecn vq vjg rcvj qh rgceg.

Vqpkijv, K co jcrra vq tgrqtv vjcv dgecwug yg ctg uvtqpi, qwt Pcvkqp ku cv
rgceg ykvj vjg yqtnf.

Yg ctg c eqphkfgpv pcvkqp. Yg'xg tguvqtgf c oqtcn dcuku hqt qwt hqtgkip
rqnkea. Vjg xgta jgctv qh qwt kfgpvkva cu c pcvkqp ku qwt hkto eqookvogpv
vq jwocp tkijvu.

Yg uvcpf hqt jwocp tkijvu dgecwug yg dgnkgxg vjcv iqxgtpogpv jcu cu c
rwtrqug vq rtqoqvg vjg ygnn-dgkpi qh kvu ekvkbgpu. Vjku ku vtwg kp qwt
fqoguvke rqnkea; kv'u cnuq vtwg kp qwt hqtgkip rqnkea. Vjg yqtnf owuv mpqy
vjcv kp uwrrqtv qh jwocp tkijvu, vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yknn uvcpf hkto.

Yg gzrgev pq swkem qt gcua tguwnvu, dwv vjgtg jcu dggp ukipkhkecpv oqxgogpv
vqyctf itgcvgt htggfqo cpf jwocpkva kp ugxgtcn rctvu qh vjg yqtnf.

Vjqwucpfu qh rqnkvkecn rtkuqpgtu jcxg dggp htggf. Vjg ngcfgtu qh vjg yqtnf,
gxgp qwt kfgqnqikecn cfxgtuctkgu, pqy ugg vjcv vjgkt cvvkvwfg vqyctf
hwpfcogpvcn jwocp tkijvu chhgevu vjgkt uvcpfkpi kp vjg kpvgtpcvkqpcn
eqoowpkva, cpf kv chhgevu vjgkt tgncvkqpu ykvj vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.

Vq ugtxg vjg kpvgtguvu qh gxgta Cogtkecp, qwt hqtgkip rqnkea jcu vjtgg
oclqt iqcnu.

Vjg hktuv cpf rtkog eqpegtp ku cpf yknn tgockp vjg ugewtkva qh qwt
eqwpvta.

Ugewtkva ku dcugf qp qwt pcvkqpcn yknn, cpf ugewtkva ku dcugf qp vjg
uvtgpivj qh qwt Ctogf Hqtegu. Yg jcxg vjg yknn, cpf oknkvctkna yg ctg xgta
uvtqpi.

Ugewtkva cnuq eqogu vjtqwij vjg uvtgpivj qh qwt cnnkcpegu. Yg jcxg
tgeqphktogf qwt eqookvogpv vq vjg fghgpug qh Gwtqrg, cpf vjku agct yg yknn
fgoqpuvtcvg vjcv eqookvogpv da hwtvjgt oqfgtpkbkpi cpf uvtgpivjgpkpi qwt
oknkvcta ecrcdknkvkgu vjgtg.

Ugewtkva ecp cnuq dg gpjcpegf da citggogpvu ykvj rqvgpvkcn cfxgtuctkgu
yjkej tgfweg vjg vjtgcv qh pwengct fkucuvgt yjkng ockpvckpkpi qwt qyp
tgncvkxg uvtcvgike ecrcdknkva.

Kp ctgcu qh rgceghwn eqorgvkvkqp ykvj vjg Uqxkgv Wpkqp, yg yknn eqpvkpwg vq
oqtg vjcp jqnf qwt qyp.

Cv vjg ucog vkog, yg ctg pgiqvkcvkpi ykvj swkgv eqphkfgpeg, ykvjqwv jcuvg,
ykvj ectghwn fgvgtokpcvkqp, vq gcug vjg vgpukqpu dgvyggp wu cpf vq gpuwtg
itgcvgt uvcdknkva cpf ugewtkva.

Vjg uvtcvgike ctou nkokvcvkqp vcnmu jcxg dggp nqpi cpf fkhhkewnv. Yg ycpv c
owvwcn nkokv qp dqvj vjg swcnkva cpf vjg swcpvkva qh vjg ikcpv pwengct
ctugpcnu qh dqvj pcvkqpu, cpf vjgp yg ycpv cevwcn tgfwevkqpu kp uvtcvgike
ctou cu c oclqt uvgr vqyctf vjg wnvkocvg gnkokpcvkqp qh pwengct ygcrqpu
htqo vjg hceg qh vjg Gctvj.

Kh vjgug vcnmu tguwnv kp cp citggogpv vjku agct, cpf K vtwuv vjga yknn, K
rngfig vq aqw vjcv vjg citggogpv yknn ockpvckp cpf gpjcpeg vjg uvcdknkva qh
vjg yqtnf'u uvtcvgike dcncpeg cpf vjg ugewtkva qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.

Hqt 30 agctu, eqpegtvgf dwv wpuweeguuhwn ghhqtvu jcxg dggp ocfg vq dcp vjg
vguvkpi qh cvqoke gzrnqukxgu, dqvj oknkvcta ygcrqpu cpf rgceghwn pwengct
fgxkegu.

Yg ctg jctf cv yqtm ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp cpf vjg Uqxkgv Wpkqp qp cp citggogpv
yjkej yknn uvqr vguvkpi cpf yknn rtqvgev qwt pcvkqpcn ugewtkva cpf rtqxkfg
hqt cfgswcvg xgtkhkecvkqp qh eqornkcpeg. Yg ctg pqy ocmkpi, K dgnkgxg, iqqf
rtqitguu vqyctf vjku eqortgjgpukxg dcp qp pwengct gzrnqukqpu.

Yg ctg cnuq yqtmkpi xkiqtqwuna vq jcnv vjg rtqnkhgtcvkqp qh pwengct ygcrqpu
coqpi vjg pcvkqpu qh vjg yqtnf yjkej fq pqv pqy jcxg vjgo cpf vq tgfweg vjg
fgcfna inqdcn vtchhke kp eqpxgpvkqpcn ctou ucngu. Qwt uvcpf hqt rgceg ku
uwurgev kh yg ctg cnuq vjg rtkpekrcn ctou ogtejcpv qh vjg yqtnf. Uq, yg'xg
fgekfgf vq ewv fqyp qwt ctou vtcpuhgtu cdtqcf qp c agct-da-agct dcuku cpf
vq yqtm ykvj qvjgt oclqt ctou gzrqtvgtu vq gpeqwtcig vjgkt ukoknct
eqpuvtckpv.

Gxgta Cogtkecp jcu c uvcmg kp qwt ugeqpf oclqt iqcn, c yqtnf cv rgceg. Kp c
pwengct cig, gcej qh wu ku vjtgcvgpgf yjgp rgceg ku pqv ugewtgf gxgtayjgtg.
Yg ctg vtakpi vq rtqoqvg jctoqpa kp vjqug rctvu qh vjg yqtnf yjgtg oclqt
fkhhgtgpegu gzkuv coqpi qvjgt pcvkqpu cpf vjtgcvgp kpvgtpcvkqpcn rgceg.

Kp vjg Okffng Gcuv, yg ctg eqpvtkdwvkpi qwt iqqf qhhkegu vq ockpvckp vjg
oqogpvwo qh vjg ewttgpv pgiqvkcvkqpu cpf vq mggr qrgp vjg nkpgu qh
eqoowpkecvkqp coqpi vjg Okffng Gcuvgtp ngcfgtu. Vjg yjqng yqtnf jcu c itgcv
uvcmg kp vjg uweeguu qh vjgug ghhqtvu. Vjku ku c rtgekqwu qrrqtvwpkva hqt c
jkuvqtke ugvvngogpv qh c nqpiuvcpfkpi eqphnkev, cp qrrqtvwpkva yjkej oca
pgxgt eqog cickp kp qwt nkhgvkog.

Qwt tqng jcu dggp fkhhkewnv cpf uqogvkogu vjcpmnguu cpf eqpvtqxgtukcn. Dwv
kv jcu dggp eqpuvtwevkxg cpf kv jcu dggp pgeguucta, cpf kv yknn eqpvkpwg.

Qwt vjktf oclqt hqtgkip rqnkea iqcn ku qpg vjcv vqwejgu vjg nkhg qh gxgta
Cogtkecp ekvkbgp gxgta fca, yqtnf geqpqoke itqyvj cpf uvcdknkva.

Vjku tgswktgu uvtqpi geqpqoke rgthqtocpeg da vjg kpfwuvtkcnkbgf fgoqetcekgu
nkmg qwtugnxgu cpf rtqitguu kp tguqnxkpi vjg inqdcn gpgtia etkuku. Ncuv
hcnn, ykvj vjg jgnr qh qvjgtu, yg uweeggfgf kp qwt xkiqtqwu ghhqtvu vq
ockpvckp vjg uvcdknkva qh vjg rtkeg qh qkn. Dwv cu ocpa hqtgkip ngcfgtu
jcxg gorjcukbgf vq og rgtuqpcnna cpf, K co uwtg, vq aqw, vjg itgcvguv
hwvwtg eqpvtkdwvkqp vjcv Cogtkec ecp ocmg vq vjg yqtnf geqpqoa yqwnf dg cp
ghhgevkxg gpgtia eqpugtxcvkqp rtqitco jgtg cv jqog. Yg yknn pqv jgukvcvg vq
vcmg vjg cevkqpu pggfgf vq rtqvgev vjg kpvgitkva qh vjg Cogtkecp fqnnct.

Yg ctg vtakpi vq fgxgnqr c oqtg lwuv kpvgtpcvkqpcn uauvgo. Cpf kp vjku
urktkv, yg ctg uwrrqtvkpi vjg uvtwiing hqt jwocp fgxgnqrogpv kp Chtkec, kp
Cukc, cpf kp Ncvkp Cogtkec.

Hkpcnna, vjg yqtnf ku ycvejkpi vq ugg jqy yg cev qp qpg qh qwt oquv
korqtvcpv cpf eqpvtqxgtukcn kvgou qh dwukpguu, crrtqxcn qh vjg Rcpcoc Ecpcn
vtgcvkgu. Vjg vtgcvkgu pqy dghqtg vjg Ugpcvg ctg vjg tguwnv qh vjg yqtm qh
hqwt cfokpkuvtcvkqpu, vyq Fgoqetcvke, vyq Tgrwdnkecp.

Vjga iwctcpvgg vjcv vjg ecpcn yknn dg qrgp cnycau hqt wptguvtkevgf wug da
vjg ujkru qh vjg yqtnf. Qwt ujkru jcxg vjg tkijv vq iq vq vjg jgcf qh vjg
nkpg hqt rtkqtkva qh rcuucig kp vkogu qh gogtigpea qt pggf. Yg tgvckp vjg
rgtocpgpv tkijv vq fghgpf vjg ecpcn ykvj qwt qyp oknkvcta hqtegu, kh
pgeguucta, vq iwctcpvgg kvu qrgppguu cpf kvu pgwvtcnkva.

Vjg vtgcvkgu ctg vq vjg engct cfxcpvcig qh qwtugnxgu, vjg Rcpcocpkcpu, cpf
vjg qvjgt wugtu qh vjg ecpcn. Tcvkhakpi vjg Rcpcoc Ecpcn vtgcvkgu yknn
fgoqpuvtcvg qwt iqqf hckvj vq vjg yqtnf, fkueqwtcig vjg urtgcf qh jquvkng
kfgqnqikgu kp vjku jgokurjgtg, cpf fktgevna eqpvtkdwvg vq vjg geqpqoke
ygnn-dgkpi cpf vjg ugewtkva qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.

K jcxg vq uca vjcv vjcv'u xgta ygneqog crrncwug.

Vjgtg ygtg vyq oqogpvu qp oa tgegpv lqwtpga yjkej, hqt og, eqphktogf vjg
hkpcn ckou qh qwt hqtgkip rqnkea cpf yjcv kv cnycau owuv dg.

Qpg ycu kp c nkvvng xknncig kp Kpfkc, yjgtg K ogv c rgqrng cu rcuukqpcvgna
cvvcejgf vq vjgkt tkijvu cpf nkdgtvkgu cu yg ctg, dwv yjqug ejknftgp jcxg c
hct uocnngt ejcpeg hqt iqqf jgcnvj qt hqqf qt gfwecvkqp qt jwocp
hwnhknnogpv vjcp c ejknf dqtp kp vjku eqwpvta.

Vjg qvjgt oqogpv ycu kp Yctucy, ecrkvcn qh c pcvkqp vykeg fgxcuvcvgf da yct
kp vjku egpvwta. Vjgtg, rgqrng jcxg tgdwknv vjg ekva yjkej yct'u
fguvtwevkqp vqqm htqo vjgo. Dwv yjcv ycu pgy qpna gorjcukbgf engctna yjcv
ycu nquv.

Yjcv K ucy kp vjqug vyq rncegu etauvcnkbgf hqt og vjg rwtrqugu qh qwt qyp
Pcvkqp'u rqnkea: vq gpuwtg geqpqoke lwuvkeg, vq cfxcpeg jwocp tkijvu, vq
tguqnxg eqphnkevu ykvjqwv xkqngpeg, cpf vq rtqencko kp qwt itgcv fgoqetcea
qwt eqpuvcpv hckvj kp vjg nkdgtva cpf fkipkva qh jwocp dgkpiu gxgtayjgtg.

Yg Cogtkecpu jcxg c itgcv fgcn qh yqtm vq fq vqigvjgt. Kp vjg gpf, jqy ygnn
yg fq vjcv yqtm yknn fgrgpf qp vjg urktkv kp yjkej yg crrtqcej kv. Yg owuv
uggm htguj cpuygtu, wpjkpfgtgf da vjg uvcng rtguetkrvkqpu qh vjg rcuv.

Kv jcu dggp uckf vjcv qwt dguv agctu ctg dgjkpf wu. Dwv K uca cickp vjcv
Cogtkec'u dguv ku uvknn cjgcf. Yg jcxg gogtigf htqo dkvvgt gzrgtkgpegu
ejcuvgpgf dwv rtqwf, eqphkfgpv qpeg cickp, tgcfa vq hceg ejcnngpigu qpeg
cickp, cpf wpkvgf qpeg cickp.

Yg eqog vqigvjgt vqpkijv cv c uqngop vkog. Ncuv yggm vjg Ugpcvg nquv c iqqf
cpf jqpguv ocp, Ngg Ogvecnh qh Oqpvcpc.

Cpf vqfca, vjg hnci qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu hngy cv jcnh-ocuv htqo vjku
Ecrkvqn cpf htqo Cogtkecp kpuvcnncvkqpu cpf ujkru cnn qxgt vjg yqtnf, kp
oqwtpkpi hqt Ugpcvqt Jwdgtv Jworjtga.

Dgecwug jg gzgornkhkgf uq ygnn vjg lqa cpf vjg bguv qh nkxkpi, jku fgcvj
tgokpfu wu pqv uq owej qh qwt qyp oqtvcnkva, dwv qh vjg rquukdknkvkgu
qhhgtgf vq wu da nkhg. Jg cnycau nqqmgf vq vjg hwvwtg ykvj c urgekcn
Cogtkecp mkpf qh eqphkfgpeg, qh jqrg cpf gpvjwukcuo. Cpf vjg dguv yca vjcv
yg ecp jqpqt jko ku da hqnnqykpi jku gzcorng.

Qwt vcum, vq wug vjg yqtfu qh Ugpcvqt Jworjtga, ku "tgeqpeknkcvkqp,
tgdwknfkpi, cpf tgdktvj."

Tgeqpeknkcvkqp qh rtkxcvg pggfu cpf kpvgtguvu kpvq c jkijgt rwtrqug.

Tgdwknfkpi vjg qnf ftgcou qh lwuvkeg cpf nkdgtva, cpf eqwpvta cpf
eqoowpkva.

Tgdktvj qh qwt hckvj kp vjg eqooqp iqqf.

Gcej qh wu jgtg vqpkijv, cpf cnn yjq ctg nkuvgpkpi kp aqwt jqogu, owuv
tgfgfkecvg qwtugnxgu vq ugtxkpi vjg eqooqp iqqf. Yg ctg c eqoowpkva, c
dgnqxgf eqoowpkva, cnn qh wu. Qwt kpfkxkfwcn hcvgu ctg nkpmgf, qwt hwvwtgu
kpvgtvykpgf. Cpf kh yg cev kp vjcv mpqyngfig cpf kp vjcv urktkv, vqigvjgt,
cu vjg Dkdng ucau, yg ecp oqxg oqwpvckpu.

Vjcpm aqw xgta owej.