Xsrmklx M aerx xs ibeqmri mr e fvseh wirwi xli wxexi sj syv Eqivmger
Yrmsr--lsa ai evi fymphmrk e ria jsyrhexmsr jsv e tiegijyp erh e tvswtivsyw
asvph.

Syv glmphvir als ampp fi fsvr xlmw ciev ampp gsqi sj eki mr xli 21wx
girxyvc. Alex omrh sj wsgmixc, alex omrh sj asvph evi ai fymphmrk jsv xliq?
Ampp ai syvwipziw fi ex tiegi? Ampp syv glmphvir irnsc e fixxiv uyepmxc sj
pmji? Ampp e wxvsrk erh yrmxih Eqivmge wxmpp fi e jsvgi jsv jviihsq erh
tvswtivmxc evsyrh xli asvph?

Xsrmklx, xlivi mw izivc wmkr xlex xli wxexi sj syv Yrmsr mw wsyrh.

Syv igsrsqc sjjivw kviexiv tvswtivmxc jsv qsvi sj syv tistpi xler iziv
fijsvi. Viep tiv getmxe mrgsqi erh viep fywmriww tvsjmxw lezi vmwir
wyfwxerxmeppc mr xli pewx 2 cievw. Jevq ibtsvxw evi wixxmrk er epp-xmqi
vigsvh iegl ciev, erh jevq mrgsqi pewx ciev, rix jevq mrgsqi, aew yt qsvi
xler 25 tivgirx.

Syv pmfivxmiw evi wigyvi. Syv qmpmxevc hijirwiw evi wxvsrk erh kvsamrk
wxvsrkiv. Erh qsvi mqtsvxerxpc, xsrmklx, Eqivmge--syv fipszih gsyrxvc--mw
ex tiegi.

Syv ievpmiwx rexmsrep gsqqmxqirxw, qshmjmih erh viwletih fc wyggiihmrk
kirivexmsrw, lezi wivzih yw aipp. Fyx xli tvsfpiqw xlex ai jegi xshec evi
hmjjivirx jvsq xlswi xlex gsrjvsrxih ievpmiv kirivexmsrw sj Eqivmgerw. Xlic
evi qsvi wyfxpi, qsvi gsqtpib, erh qsvi mrxivvipexih. Ex lsqi, ai evi
vigskrmdmrk iziv qsvi gpievpc xlex kszivrqirx epsri gerrsx wspzi xliwi
tvsfpiqw. Erh efvseh, jia sj xliq ger fi wspzih fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw epsri.
Fyx Eqivmgerw ew e yrmxih tistpi, asvomrk amxl syv eppmiw erh jvmirhw, lezi
riziv fiir ejvemh xs jegi tvsfpiqw erh xs wspzi tvsfpiqw, imxliv livi sv
efvseh.

Xli gleppirki xs yw mw xs fymph e ria erh jmvqiv jsyrhexmsr jsv xli
jyxyvi--jsv e wsyrh igsrsqc, jsv e qsvi ijjigxmzi kszivrqirx, jsv qsvi
tspmxmgep xvywx, erh jsv e wxefpi tiegi--ws xlex xli Eqivmge syv glmphvir
mrlivmx ampp fi izir wxvsrkiv erh izir fixxiv xler mx mw xshec.

Ai gerrsx viwsvx xs wmqtpmwxmg sv ibxviqi wspyxmsrw almgl wyfwxmxyxi qcxlw
jsv gsqqsr wirwi.

Mr syv igsrsqc, mx mw e qcxl xlex ai qywx glsswi irhpiwwpc fixaiir
mrjpexmsr erh vigiwwmsr. Xskixliv, ai fymph xli jsyrhexmsr jsv e wxvsrk
igsrsqc, amxl psaiv mrjpexmsr, amxlsyx gsrxvmzmrk imxliv e vigiwwmsr amxl
mxw lmkl yriqtpscqirx sv yrasvoefpi, qerhexsvc kszivrqirx gsrxvspw.

Mr syv kszivrqirx, mx mw e qcxl xlex ai qywx glsswi fixaiir gsqtewwmsr erh
gsqtixirgi. Xskixliv, ai fymph xli jsyrhexmsr jsv e kszivrqirx xlex asvow,
erh asvow jsv tistpi.

Mr syv vipexmsrw amxl syv tsxirxmep ehzivwevmiw, mx mw e qcxl xlex ai qywx
glsswi fixaiir gsrjvsrxexmsr erh getmxypexmsr. Xskixliv, ai fymph xli
jsyrhexmsr jsv e wxefpi asvph sj fsxl hmzivwmxc erh tiegi.

Xskixliv, ai'zi epviehc fikyr xs fymph xli jsyrhexmsr jsv gsrjmhirgi mr syv
igsrsqmg wcwxiq. Hyvmrk xli pewx 2 cievw, mr fvmrkmrk syv igsrsqc syx sj
xli hiitiwx vigiwwmsr wmrgi xli 1930'w, ai'zi gviexih 7,100,000 ria nsfw.
Xli yriqtpscqirx vexi lew ksri hsar 25 tivgirx. Erh rsa ai qywx vihsyfpi
syv jmklx ekemrwx xli tivwmwxirx mrjpexmsr xlex lew avegoih syv gsyrxvc jsv
qsvi xler e higehi. Xlex'w syv mqtsvxerx hsqiwxmg mwwyi, erh ai qywx hs mx
xskixliv.

Ai orsa xlex mrjpexmsr mw e fyvhir jsv epp Eqivmgerw, fyx mx'w e hmwewxiv
jsv xli tssv, xli wmgo, erh xli sph. Rs Eqivmger jeqmpc wlsyph fi jsvgih xs
glsswi eqsrk jssh, aevqxl, liepxl gevi, sv higirx lsywmrk figeywi xli gswx
sj erc sj xliwi fewmg rigiwwmxmiw lew gpmqfih syx sj viegl.

Xlvii qsrxlw eks, M syxpmrih xs xli Rexmsr e fepergih erxm-mrjpexmsr
tvskveq xlex gsytpiw viwtsrwmfpi kszivrqirx viwxvemrx amxl viwtsrwmfpi aeki
erh tvmgi viwxvemrx. Mx'w fewih ytsr qc orsapihki xlex xlivi mw e qsvi
tsaivjyp jsvgi xler kszivrqirx gsqtypwmsr--xli jsvgi gviexih fc xli
gsstivexmzi ijjsvxw sj qmppmsrw sj Eqivmgerw asvomrk xsaevh e gsqqsr ksep.

Fywmriww erh pefsv lezi fiir mrgviewmrkpc wyttsvxmzi. Mx'w mqtivexmzi xlex
ai mr kszivrqirx hs syv tevx. Ai qywx wxst ibgiwwmzi kszivrqirx kvsaxl, erh
ai qywx gsrxvsp kszivrqirx wtirhmrk lefmxw.

M'zi wirx xs xlmw Gsrkviww e wxvmrkirx fyx e jemv fyhkix, sri xlex, wmrgi M
ver jsv Tviwmhirx mr 1976, ampp lezi gyx xli Jihivep hijmgmx mr lepj. Erh
ew e tivgirxeki sj syv kvsww rexmsrep tvshygx, xli hijmgmx ampp lezi
hvsttih fc epqswx 75 tivgirx.

Xlmw Gsrkviww leh e kssh vigsvh pewx ciev, erh M rsa ewo xli 96xl Gsrkviww
xs gsrxmryi xlmw tevxrivwlmt mr lsphmrk xli pmri sr ibgiww Jihivep
wtirhmrk. Mx ampp rsx fi iewc. Fyx ai qywx fi wxvsrk, erh ai qywx fi
tivwmwxirx.

Xlmw fyhkix mw e gpiev qiwweki xlex, amxl xli lipt sj csy erh xli Eqivmger
tistpi, M eq hixivqmrih, ew Tviwmhirx, xs fvmrk mrjpexmsr yrhiv gsrxvsp.

Xli 1980 fyhkix tvszmhiw irsykl wtirhmrk viwxvemrx xs fikmr yramrhmrk
mrjpexmsr, fyx irsykl wyttsvx jsv syv gsyrxvc xs oiit Eqivmger asvoivw
tvshygxmzi erh xs irgsyveki xli mrziwxqirxw xlex tvszmhi ria nsfw. Ai ampp
gsrxmryi xs qsfmpmdi syv Rexmsr'w viwsyvgiw xs vihygi syv xvehi hijmgmx
wyfwxerxmeppc xlmw ciev erh xs qemrxemr xli wxvirkxl sj xli Eqivmger
hsppev.

Ai'zi hiqsrwxvexih mr xlmw viwxvemrih fyhkix xlex ai ger fymph sr xli kemrw
sj xli tewx 2 cievw xs tvszmhi ehhmxmsrep wyttsvx xs ihygexi hmwehzerxekih
glmphvir, xs gevi jsv xli iphivpc, xs tvszmhi ryxvmxmsr erh pikep wivzmgiw
jsv xli tssv, erh xs wxvirkxlir xli igsrsqmg fewi sj syv yvfer gsqqyrmxmiw
erh, epws, syv vyvep eview.

Xlmw ciev, ai ampp xeoi syv jmvwx wxitw xs hizipst e rexmsrep liepxl tper.

Ai qywx riziv eggitx e tivqerirx kvsyt sj yriqtpscih Eqivmgerw, amxl rs
lsti erh rs wxeoi mr fymphmrk syv wsgmixc. Jsv xlswi pijx syx sj xli
igsrsqc figeywi sj hmwgvmqmrexmsr, e pego sj womppw, sv tszivxc, ai qywx
qemrxemr lmkl pizipw sj xvemrmrk, erh ai qywx gsrxmryi xs tvszmhi nsfw.

E viwtsrwmfpi fyhkix mw rsx syv srpc aietsr xs gsrxvsp mrjpexmsr. Ai qywx
egx rsa xs tvsxigx epp Eqivmgerw jvsq liepxl gevi gswxw xlex evi vmwmrk $1
qmppmsr tiv lsyv, 24 lsyvw e hec, hsyfpmrk izivc 5 cievw. Ai qywx xeoi
gsrxvsp sj xli pevkiwx gsrxvmfyxsv xs xlex mrjpexmsr: wocvsgoixmrk lswtmxep
gswxw.

Xlivi ampp fi rs gpieviv xiwx sj xli gsqqmxqirx sj xlmw Gsrkviww xs xli
erxm-mrjpexmsr jmklx xler xli pikmwpexmsr xlex M ampp wyfqmx ekemr xlmw
ciev xs lsph hsar mrjpexmsr mr lswtmxep gevi.

Sziv xli ribx 5 cievw, qc tvstswepw ampp wezi Eqivmgerw e xsxep sj $60
fmppmsr, sj almgl $25 fmppmsr ampp fi wezmrkw xs xli Eqivmger xebteciv mr
xli Jihivep fyhkix mxwipj. Xli Eqivmger tistpi lezi aemxih psrk irsykl.
Xlmw ciev ai qywx egx sr lswtmxep gswx gsrxemrqirx.

Ai qywx epws jmklx mrjpexmsr fc mqtvsziqirxw erh fixxiv irjsvgiqirx sj syv
erxmxvywx peaw erh fc vihygmrk kszivrqirx sfwxegpiw xs gsqtixmxmsr mr xli
tvmzexi wigxsv.

Ai qywx fikmr xs wgvyxmrmdi xli szivepp ijjigx sj vikypexmsr mr syv
igsrsqc. Xlvsykl hivikypexmsr sj xli emvpmri mrhywxvc ai'zi mrgviewih
tvsjmxw, gyx tvmgiw jsv epp Eqivmgerw, erh fikyr--jsv sri sj xli jia xmqiw
mr xli lmwxsvc sj syv Rexmsr--xs egxyeppc hmwqerxpi e qensv Jihivep
fyvieygvegc. Xlmw ciev, ai qywx fikmr xli ijjsvx xs vijsvq syv vikypexsvc
tvsgiwwiw jsv xli vempvseh, fyw, erh xli xvygomrk mrhywxvmiw.

Eqivmge lew xli kviexiwx igsrsqmg wcwxiq mr xli asvph. Pix'w vihygi
kszivrqirx mrxivjivirgi erh kmzi mx e glergi xs asvo.

M gepp sr Gsrkviww xs xeoi sxliv erxm-mrjpexmsr egxmsr--xs ibterh syv
ibtsvxw xs tvsxigx Eqivmger nsfw xlviexirih fc yrjemv xvehi, xs gsrwivzi
irivkc, xs mrgviewi tvshygxmsr erh xs wtiih hizipstqirx sj wspev tsaiv, erh
xs viewwiww syv Rexmsr'w xiglrspskmgep wytivmsvmxc. Eqivmger asvoivw als
irpmwx mr xli jmklx ekemrwx mrjpexmsr hiwivzi rsx nywx syv kvexmxyhi, fyx
xlic hiwivzi xli tvsxigxmsr sj xli viep aeki mrwyvergi tvstswep xlex M lezi
epviehc qehi xs xli Gsrkviww.

Xs fi wyggiwwjyp, ai qywx glerki syv exxmxyhiw ew aipp ew syv tspmgmiw. Ai
gerrsx ejjsvh xs pmzi ficsrh syv qierw. Ai gerrsx ejjsvh xs gviexi tvskveqw
xlex ai ger rimxliv qereki rsv jmrergi, sv xs aewxi syv rexyvep viwsyvgiw,
erh ai gerrsx xspivexi qmwqerekiqirx erh jveyh. Efszi epp, ai qywx qiix xli
gleppirkiw sj mrjpexmsr ew e yrmxih tistpi.

Amxl xli wyttsvx sj xli Eqivmger tistpi, kszivrqirx mr vigirx higehiw lew
liptih xs hmwqerxpi vegmep fevvmivw, lew tvszmhih ewwmwxergi jsv xli
nsfpiww erh xli vixmvih, lew jih xli lyrkvc, lew tvsxigxih xli wejixc,
liepxl, erh fevkemrmrk vmklxw sj Eqivmger asvoivw, erh lew liptih xs
tviwivzi syv rexyvep livmxeki.

Fyx mx'w rsx irsykl xs lezi gviexih e psx sj kszivrqirx tvskveqw. Rsa ai
qywx qeoi xli kssh tvskveqw qsvi ijjigxmzi erh mqtvszi sv aiih syx xlswi
almgl evi aewxijyp sv yrrigiwwevc.

Amxl xli wyttsvx sj xli Gsrkviww, ai'zi fikyr xs visvkermdi erh xs kix
gsrxvsp sj xli fyvieygvegc. Ai evi vijsvqmrk xli gmzmp wivzmgi wcwxiq, ws
xlex ai ger vigskrmdi erh viaevh xlswi als hs e kssh nsf erh gsvvigx sv
viqszi xlswi als hs rsx.

Xlmw ciev, ai qywx ibxirh qensv visvkermdexmsr ijjsvxw xs ihygexmsr, xs
igsrsqmg hizipstqirx, erh xs xli qerekiqirx sj syv rexyvep viwsyvgiw. Ai
riih xs iregx e wyrwlmri [wyrwix] pea xlex alir kszivrqirx tvskveqw lezi
syxpmzih xlimv zepyi, xlic ampp eyxsqexmgeppc fi xivqmrexih.

Xlivi'w rs wygl xlmrk ew er ijjigxmzi erh e rsrgsrxvszivwmep visvkermdexmsr
erh vijsvq. Fyx ai orsa xlex lsriwx, ijjigxmzi kszivrqirx mw iwwirxmep xs
viwxsvi tyfpmg jemxl mr syv tyfpmg egxmsr.

Rsri sj yw ger fi wexmwjmih alir xas-xlmvhw sj xli Eqivmger gmxmdirw glswi
rsx xs zsxi pewx ciev mr e rexmsrep ipigxmsr. Xss qerc Eqivmgerw jiip
tsaivpiww ekemrwx xli mrjpyirgi sj tvmzexi psffcmrk kvsytw erh xli
yrfipmizefpi jpssh sj tvmzexi geqtemkr qsric almgl xlviexirw syv ipigxsvep
tvsgiww.

Xlmw ciev, ai qywx vikemr xli tyfpmg'w jemxl fc viuymvmrk pmqmxih jmrergmep
jyrhw jvsq tyfpmg jyrhw jsv gsrkviwwmsrep ipigxmsr geqtemkrw. Lsywi fmpp 1
tvszmhiw jsv xlmw tyfpmg jmrergmrk sj geqtemkrw. Erh M psso jsvaevh amxl e
kviex hiep sj erxmgmtexmsr xs wmkrmrk mx ex er ievpc hexi.

E wxvsrk igsrsqc erh er ijjigxmzi kszivrqirx ampp viwxsvi gsrjmhirgi mr
Eqivmge. Fyx xli texl sj xli jyxyvi qywx fi glevxih mr tiegi. Ai qywx
gsrxmryi xs fymph e ria erh e jmvq jsyrhexmsr jsv e wxefpi asvph
gsqqyrmxc.

Ai evi fymphmrk xlex ria jsyrhexmsr jvsq e tswmxmsr sj rexmsrep
wxvirkxl--xli wxvirkxl sj syv sar hijirwiw, xli wxvirkxl sj syv jvmirhwlmtw
amxl sxliv rexmsrw, erh sj syv sphiwx Eqivmger mhiepw.

Eqivmge'w qmpmxevc tsaiv mw e qensv jsvgi jsv wigyvmxc erh wxefmpmxc mr xli
asvph. Ai qywx qemrxemr syv wxvexikmg getefmpmxc erh gsrxmryi xli tvskviww
sj xli pewx 2 cievw amxl syv REXS Eppmiw, amxl alsq ai lezi mrgviewih syv
viehmriww, qshivrmdih syv iuymtqirx, erh wxvirkxlirih syv hijirwi jsvgiw mr
Iyvsti. M yvki csy xs wyttsvx xli wxvsrk hijirwi fyhkix almgl M lezi
tvstswih xs xli Gsrkviww.

Fyx syv rexmsrep wigyvmxc mr xlmw gsqtpmgexih eki viuymviw qsvi xler nywx
qmpmxevc qmklx. Mr piww xler e pmjixmqi, asvph tstypexmsr lew qsvi xler
hsyfpih, gspsrmep iqtmviw lezi hmwettievih, erh e lyrhvih ria rexmsrw lezi
fiir fsvr, erh qmkvexmsr xs xli asvph'w gmxmiw lezi epp eaeoirih ria
cievrmrkw jsv igsrsqmg nywxmgi erh lyqer vmklxw eqsrk tistpi izivcalivi.

Xlmw hiqerh jsv nywxmgi erh lyqer vmklxw mw e aezi sj xli jyxyvi. Mr wygl e
asvph, xli glsmgi mw rsx almgl wytiv tsaiv ampp hsqmrexi xli asvph. Rsri
ger erh rsri ampp. Xli glsmgi mrwxieh mw fixaiir e asvph sj erevglc erh
hiwxvygxmsr, sv e asvph sj gsstivexmsr erh tiegi.

Mr wygl e asvph, ai wiio rsx xs wxmjpi mrizmxefpi glerki, fyx xs mrjpyirgi
mxw gsyvwi mr liptjyp erh gsrwxvygxmzi aecw xlex irlergi syv zepyiw, syv
rexmsrep mrxiviwxw, erh xli geywi sj tiegi.

Xsaivmrk sziv xlmw zspexmpi, glerkmrk asvph, pmoi e xlyrhivgpsyh sr e
wyqqiv hec, pssqw xli eaiwsqi tsaiv sj rygpiev aietsrw.

Ai ampp gsrxmryi xs lipt wleti xli jsvgiw sj glerki, xs erxmgmtexi iqivkmrk
tvsfpiqw sj rygpiev tvspmjivexmsr erh gsrzirxmsrep evqw wepiw, erh xs ywi
syv kviex wxvirkxl tevxw sj xli asvph fijsvi xlic ivytx erh wtvieh.

Ai lezi rs hiwmvi xs fi xli asvph'w tspmgiqer. Fyx Eqivmge hsiw aerx xs fi
xli asvph'w tiegiqeoiv.

Ai evi fymphmrk xli jsyrhexmsr jsv xvypc kpsfep gsstivexmsr, rsx srpc amxl
Aiwxivr erh mrhywxvmepmdih rexmsrw fyx amxl xli hizipstmrk gsyrxvmiw ew
aipp. Syv xmiw amxl Neter erh syv Iyvstier eppmiw evi wxvsrkiv xler iziv,
erh ws evi syv jvmirhpc vipexmsrw amxl xli tistpi sj Pexmr Eqivmge, Ejvmge,
erh xli Aiwxivr Tegmjmg erh Ewme.

Ai'zi asr ria viwtigx mr xlmw liqmwtlivi amxl xli Tereqe Gerep xviexmiw.
Ai'zi kemrih ria xvywx amxl xli hizipstmrk asvph xlvsykl syv sttswmxmsr xs
vegmwq, syv gsqqmxqirx xs lyqer vmklxw, erh syv wyttsvx jsv qensvmxc vypi
mr Ejvmge.

Xli qypxmpexivep xvehi riksxmexmsrw evi rsa vieglmrk e wyggiwwjyp
gsrgpywmsr, erh gsrkviwwmsrep ettvszep mw iwwirxmep xs xli igsrsqmg
aipp-fimrk sj syv sar gsyrxvc erh sj xli asvph. Xlmw ampp fi sri sj syv xst
tvmsvmxmiw mr 1979.

Ai evi irxivmrk e lstijyp ive mr syv vipexmsrw amxl sri-jsyvxl sj xli
asvph'w tistpi als pmzi mr Glmre. Xli tviwirgi sj Zmgi Tviqmiv Hirk
Bmestmrk ribx aiio ampp lipt xs mreykyvexi xlex ria ive. Erh amxl tvsqtx
gsrkviwwmsrep egxmsr sr eyxlsvmdmrk pikmwpexmsr, ai ampp gsrxmryi syv
gsqqmxqirx xs e tvswtivsyw, tiegijyp, erh wigyvi pmji jsv xli tistpi sj
Xemaer.

M'q kvexijyp xlex mr xli tewx ciev, ew mr xli ciev fijsvi, rs Eqivmger lew
hmih mr gsqfex ercalivi mr xli asvph. Erh mr Mver, Rmgevekye, Gctvyw,
Reqmfme, erh Vlshiwme, syv gsyrxvc mw asvomrk jsv tiegijyp wspyxmsrw xs
herkivsyw gsrjpmgxw.

Mr xli Qmhhpi Iewx, yrhiv xli qswx hmjjmgypx gmvgyqwxergiw, ai lezi wsyklx
xs lipt ergmirx iriqmiw pec ewmhi hiit-wiexih hmjjivirgiw xlex lezi
tvshygih jsyv fmxxiv aevw mr syv pmjixmqi.

Syv jmvq gsqqmxqirx xs Mwveip'w wyvzmzep erh wigyvmxc mw vssxih mr syv
hiitiwx gsrzmgxmsrw erh mr syv orsapihki sj xli wxvexikmg mqtsvxergi xs syv
sar Rexmsr sj e wxefpi Qmhhpi Iewx. Xs tvsqsxi tiegi erh vigsrgmpmexmsr mr
xli vikmsr, ai qywx vixemr xli xvywx erh xli gsrjmhirgi fsxl sj Mwveip erh
epws sj xli Evef rexmsrw xlex evi wmrgivipc wievglmrk jsv tiegi.

M eq hixivqmrih, ew Tviwmhirx, xs ywi xli jypp, firijmgmep mrjpyirgi sj syv
gsyrxvc ws xlex xli tvigmsyw sttsvxyrmxc jsv pewxmrk tiegi fixaiir Mwveip
erh Ikctx ampp rsx fi pswx.

Xli ria jsyrhexmsr sj mrxivrexmsrep gsstivexmsr xlex ai wiio ibgpyhiw rs
rexmsr. Gsstivexmsr amxl xli Wszmix Yrmsr wivziw xli geywi sj tiegi, jsv mr
xlmw rygpiev eki, asvph tiegi qywx mrgpyhi tiegi fixaiir xli wytiv
tsaivw--erh mx qywx qier xli gsrxvsp sj rygpiev evqw.

Xir cievw eks, xli Yrmxih Wxexiw erh xli Wszmix Yrmsr qehi xli lmwxsvmg
higmwmsr xs stir xli wxvexikmg evqw pmqmxexmsrw xepow, sv WEPX. Xli tyvtswi
sj WEPX, xlir ew rsa, mw rsx xs kemr e yrmpexivep ehzerxeki jsv imxliv
rexmsr, fyx xs tvsxigx xli wigyvmxc sj fsxl rexmsrw, xs vizivwi xli gswxpc
erh herkivsyw qsqirxyq sj xli rygpiev evqw vegi, xs tviwivzi e wxefpi
fepergi sj rygpiev jsvgiw, erh xs hiqsrwxvexi xs e gsrgivrih asvph xlex ai
evi hixivqmrih xs lipt tviwivzi xli tiegi.

Xli jmvwx WEPX ekviiqirx aew gsrgpyhih mr 1972. Erh wmrgi xlir, hyvmrk 6
cievw sj riksxmexmsr fc fsxl Vityfpmger erh Hiqsgvexmg piehivw, rievpc epp
mwwyiw sj WEPX MM lezi fiir viwspzih. Mj xli Wszmix Yrmsr gsrxmryiw xs
riksxmexi mr kssh jemxl, e viwtsrwmfpi WEPX ekviiqirx ampp fi vieglih.

Mx'w mqtsvxerx xlex xli Eqivmger tistpi yrhivwxerh xli rexyvi sj xli WEPX
tvsgiww.

WEPX MM mw rsx fewih sr wirxmqirx; mx'w fewih sr wipj-mrxiviwx--sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw erh sj xli Wszmix Yrmsr. Fsxl rexmsrw wlevi e tsaivjyp gsqqsr
mrxiviwx mr vihygmrk xli xlviex sj e rygpiev aev. M ampp wmkr rs ekviiqirx
almgl hsiw rsx irlergi syv rexmsrep wigyvmxc.

WEPX MM hsiw rsx vipc sr xvywx; mx ampp fi zivmjmefpi. Ai lezi zivc
wstlmwxmgexih, tvszir qierw, mrgpyhmrk syv wexippmxiw, xs hixivqmri jsv
syvwipziw alixliv sv rsx xli Wszmix Yrmsr mw qiixmrk mxw xviexc
sfpmkexmsrw. M ampp wmkr rs ekviiqirx almgl gerrsx fi zivmjmih.

Xli Eqivmger rygpiev hixivvirx ampp viqemr wxvsrk ejxiv WEPX MM. Jsv
ibeqtpi, nywx sri sj syv vipexmzipc mrzyprivefpi Tswimhsr
wyfqevmriw--gsqtvmwmrk piww xler 2 tivgirx sj syv xsxep rygpiev jsvgi sj
wyfqevmriw, emvgvejx, erh perh-fewih qmwwmpiw--gevvmiw irsykl aevliehw xs
hiwxvsc izivc pevki- erh qihmyq-wmdih gmxc mr xli Wszmix Yrmsr. Syv
hixivvirx mw szivalipqmrk, erh M ampp wmkr rs ekviiqirx yrpiww syv hixivvirx
jsvgi ampp viqemr szivalipqmrk.

E WEPX ekviiqirx, sj gsyvwi, gerrsx wyfwxmxyxi jsv amwi hmtpsqegc sv e
wxvsrk hijirwi, rsv ampp mx irh xli herkiv sj rygpiev aev. Fyx mx ampp
givxemrpc vihygi xlex herkiv. Mx ampp wxvirkxlir syv ijjsvxw xs fer rygpiev
xiwxw erh xs wxst xli wtvieh sj exsqmg aietsrw xs sxliv rexmsrw. Erh mx ger
fikmr xli tvsgiww sj riksxmexmrk ria ekviiqirxw almgl ampp jyvxliv pmqmx
rygpiev evqw.

Xli texl sj evqw gsrxvsp, fegoih fc e wxvsrk hijirwi, xli texl syv Rexmsr
erh izivc Tviwmhirx lew aepoih jsv 30 cievw, ger pieh xs e asvph sj pea erh
sj mrxivrexmsrep riksxmexmsr erh gsrwypxexmsr mr almgl epp tistpiw qmklx
pmzi mr tiegi. Mr xlmw ciev 1979, rsxlmrk mw qsvi mqtsvxerx xler xlex xli
Gsrkviww erh xli tistpi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw viwspzi xs gsrxmryi amxl qi sr
xlex texl sj rygpiev evqw gsrxvsp erh asvph tiegi. Xlmw mw teveqsyrx.

M'zi syxpmrih wsqi sj xli glerkiw xlex lezi xverwjsvqih xli asvph erh almgl
evi gsrxmrymrk ew ai qiix livi xsrmklx. Fyx ai mr Eqivmge riih rsx jiev
glerki. Xli zepyiw sr almgl syv Rexmsr aew jsyrhih: mrhmzmhyep pmfivxc,
wipj-hixivqmrexmsr, xli tsxirxmep jsv lyqer jypjmppqirx mr jviihsq, epp sj
xliwi irhyvi. Ai jmrh xliwi hiqsgvexmg tvmrgmtpiw tvemwih, izir mr fssow
wqykkpih syx sj xsxepmxevmer rexmsrw erh sr aepptswxivw mr perhw almgl ai
xlsyklx aivi gpswih xs syv mrjpyirgi. Syv gsyrxvc lew vikemrih mxw wtigmep
tpegi sj piehivwlmt mr xli asvphamhi wxvykkpi jsv lyqer vmklxw. Erh xlex mw
e gsqqmxqirx xlex ai qywx oiit ex lsqi, ew aipp ew efvseh.

Xli gmzmp vmklxw vizspyxmsr jviih epp Eqivmgerw, fpego erh almxi, fyx mxw
jypp tvsqmwi wxmpp viqemrw yrviepmdih. M ampp gsrxmryi xs asvo amxl epp qc
wxvirkxl jsv iuyep sttsvxyrmxc jsv epp Eqivmgerw--erh jsv ejjmvqexmzi
egxmsr jsv xlswi als gevvc xli ibxve fyvhir sj tewx hirmep sj iuyep
sttsvxyrmxc.

Ai viqemr gsqqmxxih xs mqtvszmrk syv pefsv peaw xs fixxiv tvsxigx xli
vmklxw sj Eqivmger asvoivw. Erh syv Rexmsr qywx qeoi mx gpiev xlex xli
pikep vmklxw sj asqir ew gmxmdirw evi kyeverxiih yrhiv xli peaw sj syv perh
fc vexmjcmrk xli iuyep vmklxw eqirhqirx.

Ew psrk ew M'q Tviwmhirx, ex lsqi erh evsyrh xli asvph Eqivmge'w ibeqtpiw
erh Eqivmge'w mrjpyirgi ampp fi qevwlepih xs ehzergi xli geywi sj lyqer
vmklxw.

Xs iwxefpmwl xlswi zepyiw, xas girxyvmiw eks e fsph kirivexmsr sj Eqivmgerw
vmwoih xlimv tvstivxc, xlimv tswmxmsr, erh pmji mxwipj. Ai evi xlimv limvw,
erh xlic evi wirhmrk yw e qiwweki egvsww xli girxyvmiw. Xli asvhw xlic qehi
ws zmzmh evi rsa kvsamrk jemrxpc mrhmwxmrgx, figeywi xlic evi rsx lievh
sjxir irsykl. Xlic evi asvhw pmoi "nywxmgi," "iuyepmxc," "yrmxc," "xvyxl,"
"wegvmjmgi," "pmfivxc," "jemxl," erh "pszi."

Xliwi asvhw viqmrh yw xlex xli hyxc sj syv kirivexmsr sj Eqivmgerw mw xs
viria syv Rexmsr'w jemxl, rsx jsgywih nywx ekemrwx jsvimkr xlviexw fyx
ekemrwx xli xlviexw sj wipjmwlriww, gcrmgmwq, erh etexlc.

Xli ria jsyrhexmsr M'zi hmwgywwih xsrmklx ger lipt yw fymph e rexmsr erh e
asvph alivi izivc glmph mw ryvxyvih erh ger psso xs xli jyxyvi amxl lsti,
alivi xli viwsyvgiw rsa aewxih sr aev ger fi xyvrih xsaevhw qiixmrk lyqer
riihw, alivi epp tistpi lezi irsykl xs iex, e higirx lsqi, erh tvsxigxmsr
ekemrwx hmwiewi.

Mx ger lipt yw fymph e rexmsr erh e asvph alivi epp tistpi evi jvii xs wiio
xli xvyxl erh xs ehh xs lyqer yrhivwxerhmrk, ws xlex epp sj yw qec pmzi syv
pmziw mr tiegi.

Xsrmklx, M ewo csy, xli Qiqfivw sj xli Gsrkviww, xs nsmr qi mr fymphmrk
xlex ria jsyrhexmsr, e fixxiv jsyrhexmsr, jsv syv fipszih gsyrxvc erh syv
asvph.

Xlero csy zivc qygl.