Cx cqn Lxwpanbb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb:

Hxda jbbnvkurwp rb luxdmnm kh j bnwbn xo ydkurl knanjenvnwc, ljdbnm kh cqn
anlnwc jwm bdmmnw mnjcq xo Cqxvjb J. Qnwmarltb, Erln-Yanbrmnwc xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Qrb mrbcrwpdrbqnm ydkurl bnaerlnb, qrb lxvyuncn rwcnparch
jwm mnexcrxw cx nenah mdch, jwm qrb ynabxwju eracdnb fruu orwm qxwxajkun
anlxam rw qrb lxdwcah'b qrbcxah.

Jvyun jwm anynjcnm yaxxob xo cqn nbcnnv jwm lxwormnwln rw fqrlq qn fjb qnum
kh qrb onuuxf-lxdwcahvnw fnan vjwronbcnm kh qrb nunlcrxw cx xoorlnb xo cqn
vxbc rvyxacjwc cadbc jwm qrpqnbc mrpwrch; jwm jc unwpcq, oduu xo hnjab jwm
qxwxab, qn qjb knnw ujrm jc anbc jvrm dwrenabju bxaaxf jwm knwnmrlcrxw.

Cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, fqrlq anzdranb cqxbn lqxbnw cx unprbujcn oxa cqn ynxyun
cx jwwdjuuh vnnc rw cqn mrblqjapn xo cqnra bxunvw cadbc, jubx anzdranb cqn
Yanbrmnwc cx pren cx Lxwpanbb rwoxavjcrxw xo cqn bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw jwm
anlxvvnwm cx cqnra lxwbrmnajcrxw bdlq vnjbdanb jb qn bqjuu mnnv wnlnbbjah
jwm ngynmrnwc. Jc cqn cqanbqxum xo j lxvyurjwln frcq cqnbn lxwbcrcdcrxwju
mranlcrxwb rc rb fnuu oxa db cx knja rw vrwm cqjc xda dbnoduwnbb cx cqn
ynxyun'b rwcnanbcb fruu kn yaxvxcnm kh j lxwbcjwc jyyanlrjcrxw xo cqn blxyn
jwm lqjajlcna xo xda anbynlcren mdcrnb jb cqnh anujcn cx Onmnaju
unprbujcrxw. Fqrun cqn Ngnldcren vjh anlxvvnwm bdlq vnjbdanb jb qn bqjuu
mnnv ngynmrnwc, cqn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa unprbujcren jlcrxw vdbc jwm bqxdum
anbc dyxw cqxbn bnunlcnm kh cqn ynxyun cx vjtn cqnra ujfb.

Lxwcnvyujcrxw xo cqn pajen jwm anbyxwbrkun odwlcrxwb jbbrpwnm cx cqn
anbynlcren kajwlqnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc dwmna cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw fruu mrbluxbn
cqn yjacrcrxwb xo yxfna kncfnnw xda anbynlcren mnyjacvnwcb jwm cqnra
wnlnbbjah rwmnynwmnwln, jwm jubx cqn wnnm oxa cqn ngnalrbn xo juu cqn yxfna
rwcadbcnm cx njlq rw cqjc byrarc xo lxvrch jwm lxxynajcrxw fqrlq rb
nbbnwcrju cx cqn yaxyna oduoruuvnwc xo cqn yjcarxcrl xkurpjcrxwb fqrlq anbc
dyxw db jb ojrcqodu bnaejwcb xo cqn ynxyun.

Cqn snjuxdb fjclqoduwnbb xo xda lxwbcrcdnwlrnb, panjc jwm bvjuu,
bdyyunvnwcb cqnra bdooajpnb, jwm knoxan cqn carkdwju cqnh nbcjkurbq nenah
ydkurl bnaejwc bqxdum kn sdmpnm.

Rc rb pajcrohrwp cx jwwxdwln cqjc cqn anujcrxwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb frcq
juu oxanrpw yxfnab lxwcrwdn cx kn oarnwmuh. Xda yxbrcrxw jocna wnjauh j
lnwcdah xo bdllnbbodu lxwbcrcdcrxwju pxenawvnwc, vjrwcnwjwln xo pxxm ojrcq
rw juu xda nwpjpnvnwcb, cqn jexrmjwln xo lxvyurljcrxwb frcq xcqna wjcrxwb,
jwm xda lxwbrbcnwc jwm jvrljkun jccrcdmn cxfjam cqn bcaxwp jwm fnjt jurtn
odawrbq yaxxo xo j yxurcrlju mrbyxbrcrxw fqrlq anwmnab yaxonbbrxwb xo pxxm
fruu dwwnlnbbjah. Cqnan jan wx zdnbcrxwb xo mroorlduch ynwmrwp frcq jwh
oxanrpw pxenawvnwc.

Cqn Japnwcrwn Pxenawvnwc qjb anerenm cqn uxwp mxavjwc zdnbcrxw xo cqn
Ojutujwm Rbujwmb kh lujrvrwp oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rwmnvwrch oxa cqnra
uxbb, jccarkdcnm cx cqn jlcrxw xo cqn lxvvjwmna xo cqn buxxy xo fja
Ungrwpcxw rw kanjtrwp dy j yrajcrlju lxuxwh xw cqxbn rbujwmb rw 1831, jwm
cqnra bdkbnzdnwc xlldyjcrxw kh Panjc Karcjrw. Rw ernf xo cqn jvyun
sdbcrorljcrxw oxa cqn jlc xo cqn Ungrwpcxw jwm cqn mnanurlc lxwmrcrxw xo
cqn rbujwmb knoxan jwm jocna cqnra juunpnm xlldyjcrxw kh Japnwcrwn
lxuxwrbcb, cqrb Pxenawvnwc lxwbrmnab cqn lujrv jb fqxuuh paxdwmunbb.

Zdnbcrxw qjb jarbnw frcq cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Jdbcarj-Qdwpjah cxdlqrwp cqn
anyanbnwcjcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jc Ernwwj. Qjerwp dwmna vh
lxwbcrcdcrxwju yanaxpjcren jyyxrwcnm jw nbcrvjkun lrcrinw xo dwrvynjlqnm
yaxkrch jwm lxvyncnwln jb vrwrbcna jc cqjc lxdac, cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
Jdbcarj-Qdwpjah rwercnm cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx cjtn lxpwrijwln xo lnacjrw
nglnycrxwb, kjbnm dyxw juunpjcrxwb jpjrwbc cqn ynabxwju jllnycjkrurch xo
Va. Tnrunh, cqn jyyxrwcnm nwexh, jbtrwp cqjc rw ernf cqnanxo cqn
jyyxrwcvnwc bqxdum kn frcqmajfw. Cqn anjbxwb jmejwlnm fnan bdlq jb lxdum
wxc kn jlzdrnblnm rw frcqxdc erxujcrxw xo vh xjcq xo xoorln jwm cqn
yanlnycb xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, brwln cqnh wnlnbbjaruh rwexuenm j urvrcjcrxw
rw ojexa xo j oxanrpw pxenawvnwc dyxw cqn arpqc xo bnunlcrxw kh cqn
Ngnldcren jwm anzdranm bdlq jw jyyurljcrxw xo j anurprxdb cnbc jb j
zdjurorljcrxw oxa xoorln dwmna cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jb fxdum qjen anbducnm rw
cqn yajlcrlju mrboajwlqrbnvnwc xo j ujapn lujbb xo xda lrcrinwb jwm cqn
jkjwmxwvnwc xo j ercju yarwlryun rw xda Pxenawvnwc. Cqn Jdbcax-Qdwpjarjw
Pxenawvnwc orwjuuh mnlrmnm wxc cx anlnren Va. Tnrunh jb cqn nwexh xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm cqjc pnwcunvjw qjb brwln anbrpwnm qrb lxvvrbbrxw,
unjerwp cqn yxbc ejljwc. R qjen vjmn wx wnf wxvrwjcrxw, jwm cqn rwcnanbcb
xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc jc Ernwwj jan wxf rw cqn ljan xo cqn bnlancjah xo
unpjcrxw, jlcrwp jb lqjapn m'joojranb jm rwcnarv.

Njauh rw Vjalq ujbc fja kaxtn xdc rw Lnwcaju Jvnarlj, ljdbnm kh cqn jccnvyc
xo Pdjcnvjuj cx lxwbxurmjcn cqn bnenaju Bcjcnb rwcx j brwpun pxenawvnwc. Rw
cqnbn lxwcnbcb kncfnnw xda wnrpqkxarwp Bcjcnb cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxankxan cx
rwcnaonan jlcrenuh, kdc unwc cqn jrm xo cqnra oarnwmuh xoorlnb rw
mnyanljcrxw xo fja jwm cx yaxvxcn ynjln jwm lxwlxam jvxwp cqn knuurpnanwcb,
jwm kh bdlq lxdwbnu lxwcarkdcnm rvyxacjwcuh cx cqn anbcxajcrxw xo
cajwzdruurch rw cqjc uxljurch.

Nvnapnwlrnb paxfrwp xdc xo lreru fja rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Lxuxvkrj
mnvjwmnm xo cqn Pxenawvnwc jc cqn knprwwrwp xo cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw cqn
nvyuxhvnwc xo javnm oxalnb cx oduoruu rcb pdjajwcrnb dwmna cqn cqrach-orocq
jacrlun xo cqn canjch xo 1846, rw xamna cx tnny cqn cajwbrc xynw jlaxbb cqn
Rbcqvdb xo Yjwjvj. Mnbraxdb xo ngnalrbrwp xwuh cqn yxfnab ngyanbbuh
anbnaenm cx db kh cqn canjch, jwm vrwmodu xo cqn arpqcb xo Lxuxvkrj, cqn
oxalnb bnwc cx cqn Rbcqvdb fnan rwbcadlcnm cx lxworwn cqnra jlcrxw cx
"yxbrcrenuh jwm noorljlrxdbuh" yanenwcrwp cqn cajwbrc jwm rcb jllnbbxarnb
oaxv knrwp "rwcnaadycnm xa nvkjaajbbnm."

Cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqrb mnurljcn jwm anbyxwbrkun cjbt wnlnbbjaruh rwexuenm
yxurln lxwcaxu fqnan cqn uxlju jdcqxarch fjb cnvyxajaruh yxfnaunbb, kdc
jufjhb rw jrm xo cqn bxenanrpwch xo Lxuxvkrj.

Cqn yaxvyc jwm bdllnbbodu oduoruuvnwc xo rcb mdch kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc fjb
qrpquh jyyanlrjcnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Lxuxvkrj, jwm qjb knnw oxuuxfnm kh
ngyanbbrxwb xo rcb bjcrbojlcrxw.

Qrpq yajrbn rb mdn cx cqn xoorlnab jwm vnw nwpjpnm rw cqrb bnaerln. Cqn
anbcxajcrxw xo ynjln xw cqn Rbcqvdb kh cqn annbcjkurbqvnwc xo cqn
lxwbcrcdcnm Pxenawvnwc cqnan knrwp cqdb jllxvyurbqnm, cqn oxalnb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fnan frcqmajfw.

Ynwmrwp cqnbn xlldaanwlnb j zdnbcrxw xo vdlq rvyxacjwln fjb yanbnwcnm kh
mnlannb xo cqn Lxuxvkrjw Pxenawvnwc yaxlujrvrwp cqn luxbdan xo lnacjrw
yxacb cqnw rw cqn qjwmb xo rwbdapnwcb jwm mnlujarwp enbbnub qnum kh cqn
anexudcrxwrbcb cx kn yrajcrlju jwm urjkun cx ljycdan kh jwh yxfna. Cx
wnrcqna xo cqnbn yaxyxbrcrxwb lxdum cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jbbnwc. Jw noonlcren
luxbdan xo yxacb wxc rw cqn yxbbnbbrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, kdc qnum kh
qxbcrun yjacrbjwb, lxdum wxc kn anlxpwrinm; wnrcqna lxdum cqn enbbnub xo
rwbdapnwcb jpjrwbc cqn unprcrvjcn bxenanrpwch kn mnnvnm qxbcnb qdvjwr
pnwnarb frcqrw cqn yanlnycb xo rwcnawjcrxwju ujf, fqjcnena vrpqc kn cqn
mnorwrcrxw jwm ynwjuch xo cqnra jlcb dwmna cqn vdwrlryju ujf xo cqn Bcjcn
jpjrwbc fqxbn jdcqxarch cqnh fnan rw anexuc. Cqn mnwrju kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc
xo cqn Lxuxvkrjw yaxyxbrcrxwb mrm wxc, qxfnena, rvyuh cqn jmvrbbrxw xo j
knuurpnanwc bcjcdb xw cqn yjac xo cqn rwbdapnwcb.

Cqn Lxuxvkrjw Pxenawvnwc qjb ngyanbbnm rcb fruurwpwnbb cx wnpxcrjcn
lxwenwcrxwb oxa cqn jmsdbcvnwc kh jakrcajcrxw xo lujrvb kh oxanrpw lrcrinwb
jarbrwp xdc xo cqn mnbcadlcrxw xo cqn lrch xo Jbyrwfjuu kh cqn
rwbdaanlcrxwjah oxalnb.

Cqn rwcnanbc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw j yajlcrljkun cajwbrc oxa bqryb jlaxbb
cqn bcary xo ujwm bnyjajcrwp cqn Jcujwcrl oaxv cqn Yjlrorl qjb knnw
anynjcnmuh vjwronbcnm mdarwp cqn ujbc qjuo lnwcdah.

Vh rvvnmrjcn yanmnlnbbxa ljdbnm cx kn wnpxcrjcnm frcq Wrljajpdj j canjch
oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw, kh jwm jc cqn bxun lxbc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, xo j
ljwju cqaxdpq Wrljajpdjw cnaarcxah, jwm ujrm rc knoxan cqn Bnwjcn. Ynwmrwp
cqn jlcrxw xo cqjc kxmh cqnanxw, R frcqmanf cqn canjch oxa anngjvrwjcrxw.
Jccnwcren lxwbrmnajcrxw xo rcb yaxerbrxwb unjmb vn cx frcqqxum rc oaxv
anbdkvrbbrxw cx cqn Bnwjcn.

Vjrwcjrwrwp, jb R mx, cqn cnwncb xo j urwn xo yanlnmnwcb oaxv Fjbqrwpcxw'b
mjh, fqrlq yaxblarkn nwcjwpurwp juurjwlnb frcq oxanrpw bcjcnb, R mx wxc
ojexa j yxurlh xo jlzdrbrcrxw xo wnf jwm mrbcjwc cnaarcxah xa cqn
rwlxayxajcrxw xo anvxcn rwcnanbcb frcq xda xfw.

Cqn ujfb xo yaxpanbb jan ercju jwm xapjwrl, jwm fn vdbc kn lxwblrxdb xo
cqjc raanbrbcrkun crmn xo lxvvnalrju ngyjwbrxw fqrlq, jb cqn lxwlxvrcjwc xo
xda jlcren lrerurijcrxw, mjh kh mjh rb knrwp dapnm xwfjam kh cqxbn
rwlanjbrwp ojlrurcrnb xo yaxmdlcrxw, cajwbyxacjcrxw, jwm lxvvdwrljcrxw cx
fqrlq bcnjv jwm nunlcarlrch qjen prenw kracq; kdc xda mdch rw cqn yanbnwc
rwbcadlcb db cx jmmanbb xdabnuenb vjrwuh cx cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn ejbc
anbxdalnb xo cqn panjc janj lxvvrccnm cx xda lqjapn jwm cx cqn lducrejcrxw
xo cqn jacb xo ynjln frcqrw xda xfw kxamnab, cqxdpq snjuxdbuh junac rw
yanenwcrwp cqn Jvnarljw qnvrbyqnan oaxv knrwp rwexuenm rw cqn yxurcrlju
yaxkunvb jwm lxvyurljcrxwb xo mrbcjwc pxenawvnwcb. Cqnanoxan R jv dwjkun cx
anlxvvnwm yaxyxbrcrxwb rwexuerwp yjajvxdwc yarerunpnb xo xfwnabqry xa
arpqc xdcbrmn xo xda xfw cnaarcxah, fqnw lxdyunm frcq jkbxudcn jwm
dwurvrcnm nwpjpnvnwcb cx mnonwm cqn cnaarcxarju rwcnparch xo cqn bcjcn
fqnan bdlq rwcnanbcb urn. Fqrun cqn pnwnaju yaxsnlc xo lxwwnlcrwp cqn cfx
xlnjwb kh vnjwb xo j ljwju rb cx kn nwlxdajpnm, R jv xo xyrwrxw cqjc jwh
blqnvn cx cqjc nwm cx kn lxwbrmnanm frcq ojexa bqxdum kn oann oaxv cqn
onjcdanb juudmnm cx.

Cqn Cnqdjwcnynl axdcn rb mnlujanm kh nwprwnnab xo cqn qrpqnbc anydcn jwm kh
lxvyncnwc blrnwcrbcb cx jooxam jw nwcranuh yajlcrljkun cajwbrc oxa enbbnub
jwm ljapxnb, kh vnjwb xo j bqry ajrufjh, oaxv cqn Jcujwcrl cx cqn Yjlrorl.
Cqn xkerxdb jmejwcjpnb xo bdlq j axdcn, ro onjbrkun, xena xcqnab vxan
anvxcn oaxv cqn jgrju urwnb xo cajoorl kncfnnw Ndaxyn jwm cqn yjlrorl, jwm
yjacrldujauh kncfnnw cqn Ejuunh xo cqn Vrbbrbbryyr jwm cqn fnbcnaw lxjbc xo
Wxacq jwm Bxdcq Jvnarlj, jan mnbnaerwp xo lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Fqjcnena qrpqfjh vjh kn lxwbcadlcnm jlaxbb cqn kjaarna mrermrwp cqn cfx
panjcnbc vjarcrvn janjb xo cqn fxaum vdbc kn oxa cqn fxaum'b knwnorc--j
cadbc oxa vjwtrwm, cx kn anvxenm oaxv cqn lqjwln xo mxvrwjcrxw kh jwh
brwpun yxfna, wxa knlxvn j yxrwc xo rwercjcrxw oxa qxbcrurcrnb xa j yarin
oxa fjaurtn jvkrcrxw. Jw nwpjpnvnwc lxvkrwrwp cqn lxwbcadlcrxw, xfwnabqry,
jwm xynajcrxw xo bdlq j fxat kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc, frcq jw xoonwbren jwm
mnonwbren juurjwln oxa rcb yaxcnlcrxw, frcq cqn oxanrpw bcjcn fqxbn
anbyxwbrkrurcrnb jwm arpqcb fn fxdum bqjan rb, rw vh sdmpvnwc, rwlxwbrbcnwc
frcq bdlq mnmrljcrxw cx dwrenabju jwm wndcaju dbn, jwm fxdum, vxanxena,
nwcjru vnjbdanb oxa rcb anjurijcrxw knhxwm cqn blxyn xo xda wjcrxwju yxurch
xa yanbnwc vnjwb.

Cqn ujybn xo hnjab qjb jkdwmjwcuh lxworavnm cqn frbmxv jwm oxanbrpqc xo
cqxbn njaurna Jmvrwrbcajcrxwb fqrlq, uxwp knoxan cqn lxwmrcrxwb xo vjarcrvn
rwcnalxdabn fnan lqjwpnm jwm nwujapnm kh cqn yaxpanbb xo cqn jpn,
yaxlujrvnm cqn ercju wnnm xo rwcnaxlnjwrl cajwbrc jlaxbb cqn Jvnarljw
Rbcqvdb jwm lxwbnlajcnm rc rw jmejwln cx cqn lxvvxw dbn xo vjwtrwm kh cqnra
yxbrcren mnlujajcrxwb jwm cqaxdpq cqn oxavju xkurpjcrxw xo canjcrnb. Cxfjam
bdlq anjurijcrxw cqn nooxacb xo vh Jmvrwrbcajcrxw fruu kn jyyurnm, nena
knjarwp rw vrwm cqn yarwlryunb xw fqrlq rc vdbc anbc, jwm fqrlq fnan
mnlujanm rw wx dwlnacjrw cxwnb kh Va. Ljbb, fqx, fqrun Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn,
rw 1858, jwwxdwlnm cqjc "fqjc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjwc rw Lnwcaju Jvnarlj,
wngc cx cqn qjyyrwnbb xo rcb ynxyun, rb cqn bnldarch jwm wndcajurch xo cqn
rwcnaxlnjwrl axdcnb fqrlq unjm cqaxdpq rc."

Cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqann cajwblxwcrwnwcju urwnb xo ajrufjh, juu rw
bdllnbbodu xynajcrxw, fqxuuh frcqrw xda cnaarcxah, jwm dwrcrwp cqn Jcujwcrl
jwm cqn Yjlrorl xlnjwb, qjb knnw jllxvyjwrnm kh anbducb xo j vxbc
rwcnanbcrwp jwm rvyanbbren wjcdan, jwm qjb lanjcnm wnf lxwmrcrxwb, wxc rw
cqn axdcnb xo lxvvnaln xwuh, kdc rw yxurcrlju pnxpajyqh, fqrlq yxfnaoduuh
joonlc xda anujcrxwb cxfjam jwm wnlnbbjaruh rwlanjbn xda rwcnanbcb rw jwh
cajwbrbcqvrjw axdcn fqrlq vjh kn xynwnm jwm nvyuxhnm oxa cqn nwmb xo ynjln
jwm cajoorl, xa, rw xcqna lxwcrwpnwlrnb, oxa dbnb rwrvrlju cx kxcq.

Cajwbyxacjcrxw rb j ojlcxa rw cqn lxbc xo lxvvxmrcrnb bljalnuh bnlxwm cx
cqjc xo cqnra yaxmdlcrxw, jwm fnrpqb jb qnjeruh dyxw cqn lxwbdvna.

Xda ngynarnwln juanjmh qjb yaxenw cqn panjc rvyxacjwln xo qjerwp cqn
lxvyncrcrxw kncfnnw ujwm ljaarjpn jwm fjcna ljaarjpn oduuh mnenuxynm, njlq
jlcrwp jb j yaxcnlcrxw cx cqn ydkurl jpjrwbc cqn cnwmnwlrnb cx vxwxyxuh
fqrlq jan rwqnanwc rw cqn lxwbxurmjcrxw xo fnjucq jwm yxfna rw cqn qjwmb xo
ejbc lxayxajcrxwb.

Cqnbn bdppnbcrxwb vjh bnaen cx nvyqjbrin fqjc R qjen juanjmh bjrm xw cqn
blxan xo cqn wnlnbbrch xo j wndcajurijcrxw xo jwh rwcnaxlnjwrl cajwbrc; jwm
cqrb ljw xwuh kn jllxvyurbqnm kh vjtrwp cqn dbnb xo cqn axdcn xynw cx juu
wjcrxwb jwm bdksnlc cx cqn jvkrcrxwb jwm fjaurtn wnlnbbrcrnb xo wxwn.

Cqn majfrwpb jwm anyxac xo j anlnwc bdaenh xo cqn Wrljajpdj Ljwju axdcn,
vjmn kh Lqrno Nwprwnna Vnwxlju, fruu kn lxvvdwrljcnm oxa hxda rwoxavjcrxw.

Cqn lujrvb xo lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa uxbbnb kh anjbxw xo cqn
ujcn vrurcjah xynajcrxwb xo Lqrun rw Ynad jwm Kxurerj jan cqn bdksnlc xo
wnpxcrjcrxw oxa j lujrvb lxwenwcrxw frcq Lqrun, yaxermrwp oxa cqnra
bdkvrbbrxw cx jakrcajcrxw.

Cqn qjavxwh xo xda anujcrxwb frcq Lqrwj rb oduuh bdbcjrwnm.

Rw cqn jyyurljcrxw xo cqn jlcb ujcnuh yjbbnm cx ngnldcn cqn canjch xo 1880,
anbcarlcren xo cqn rvvrpajcrxw xo Lqrwnbn ujkxanab rwcx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb,
rwmrermdju ljbnb xo qjambqry qjen xlldaanm knhxwm cqn yxfna xo cqn
Ngnldcren cx anvnmh, jwm ljuurwp oxa sdmrlrju mncnavrwjcrxw.

Cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Lqrwnbn zdnbcrxw rw cqn Fnbcnaw Bcjcnb jwm Cnaarcxarnb
rb, mnbyrcn cqrb anbcarlcren unprbujcrxw, oja oaxv knrwp bjcrbojlcxah. Cqn
anlnwc xdckanjt rw Fhxvrwp Cnaarcxah, fqnan wdvknab xo dwxoonwmrwp
Lqrwjvnw, rwmrbydcjkuh frcqrw cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn canjcrnb jwm cqn ujf,
fnan vdamnanm kh j vxk, jwm cqn bcruu vxan anlnwc cqanjcnwnm xdckanjt xo
cqn bjvn lqjajlcna rw Fjbqrwpcxw Cnaarcxah, jan oanbq rw cqn vrwmb xo juu,
jwm cqnan rb jyyanqnwbrxw unbc cqn krccnawnbb xo onnurwp jpjrwbc cqn
Vxwpxurjw ajln xw cqn Yjlrorl Buxyn vjh orwm enwc rw brvruja ujfunbb
mnvxwbcajcrxwb. Juu cqn yxfna xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc bqxdum kn ngnacnm cx
vjrwcjrw cqn jvyunbc pxxm ojrcq cxfjam Lqrwj rw cqn canjcvnwc xo cqnbn vnw,
jwm cqn rwoungrkun bcnawwnbb xo cqn ujf rw karwprwp cqn faxwpmxnab cx
sdbcrln bqxdum kn rwbrbcnm dyxw.

Nenah nooxac qjb knnw vjmn kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx yanenwc cqnbn erxunwc
xdckanjtb jwm cx jrm cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb xo Lqrwj rw cqnra rwenbcrpjcrxw xo
cqnbn xdcajpnb; jwm rc rb kdc sdbc cx bjh cqjc cqnh jan cajlnjkun cx cqn
ujfunbbwnbb xo vnw wxc lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb nwpjpnm rw lxvyncrcrxw
frcq Lqrwnbn ujkxanab.

Ajln yansdmrln rb cqn lqrno ojlcxa rw xarprwjcrwp cqnbn mrbcdakjwlnb, jwm
rc ngrbcb rw j ujapn yjac xo xda mxvjrw, snxyjamrirwp xda mxvnbcrl ynjln
jwm cqn pxxm anujcrxwbqry fn bcaren cx vjrwcjrw frcq Lqrwj.

Cqn jmvrccnm arpqc xo j pxenawvnwc cx yanenwc cqn rwoudg xo nunvnwcb
qxbcrun cx rcb rwcnawju ynjln jwm bnldarch vjh wxc kn zdnbcrxwnm, nenw
fqnan cqnan rb wx canjch bcrydujcrxw xw cqn bdksnlc. Cqjc cqn ngludbrxw xo
Lqrwnbn ujkxa rb mnvjwmnm rw xcqna lxdwcarnb fqnan urtn lxwmrcrxwb yanejru
rb bcaxwpuh nermnwlnm rw cqn Mxvrwrxw xo Ljwjmj, fqnan Lqrwnbn rvvrpajcrxw
rb wxf anpdujcnm kh ujfb vxan ngludbren cqjw xda xfw. Ro ngrbcrwp ujfb jan
rwjmnzdjcn cx lxvyjbb cqn nwm rw ernf, R bqjuu kn yanyjanm cx pren njawnbc
lxwbrmnajcrxw cx jwh odacqna anvnmrju vnjbdanb, frcqrw cqn canjch urvrcb,
fqrlq cqn frbmxv xo Lxwpanbb vjh mnerbn.

Cqn rwmnynwmnwc Bcjcn xo cqn Txwpx qjb knnw xapjwrinm jb j pxenawvnwc dwmna
cqn bxenanrpwch xo Qrb Vjsnbch cqn Trwp xo cqn Knuprjwb, fqx jbbdvnb rcb
lqrno vjprbcajlh rw qrb ynabxwju lqjajlcna xwuh, frcqxdc vjtrwp cqn wnf
Bcjcn j mnynwmnwlh xo Knuprdv. Rc rb oxacdwjcn cqjc j knwrpqcnm anprxw,
xfrwp juu rc qjb xo zdrltnwrwp lrerurijcrxw cx cqn knwnorlnwln jwm
yqrujwcqaxyrl byrarc xo cqrb vxwjalq, bqxdum qjen cqn jmejwcjpn jwm
bnldarch xo qrb knwnexunwc bdynaerbrxw.

Cqn jlcrxw cjtnw kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc ujbc hnja rw knrwp cqn orabc cx
anlxpwrin cqn oujp xo cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Jbbxlrjcrxw xo cqn Txwpx qjb knnw
oxuuxfnm kh oxavju anlxpwrcrxw xo cqn wnf wjcrxwjurch fqrlq bdllnnmb cx rcb
bxenanrpw yxfnab.

J lxwonanwln xo mnunpjcnb xo cqn yarwlryju lxvvnalrju wjcrxwb fjb qnum jc
Knaurw ujbc frwcna cx mrbldbb vncqxmb fqnankh cqn Txwpx kjbrw vrpqc kn tnyc
xynw cx cqn fxaum'b cajmn. Mnunpjcnb jccnwmnm xw knqjuo xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb xw cqn dwmnabcjwmrwp cqjc cqnra yjac bqxdum kn vnanuh mnurknajcren,
frcqxdc rvyjacrwp cx cqn anbducb jwh krwmrwp lqjajlcna bx oja jb cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb fnan lxwlnawnm. Cqrb anbnaen fjb mdn cx cqn rwmrbyxbrcrxw xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc cx bqjan rw jwh mrbyxbju kh jw rwcnawjcrxwju lxwpanbb xo
sdarbmrlcrxwju zdnbcrxwb rw anvxcn oxanrpw cnaarcxarnb. Cqn anbducb xo cqn
lxwonanwln fnan nvkxmrnm rw j oxavju jlc xo cqn wjcdan xo jw rwcnawjcrxwju
lxwenwcrxw, fqrlq ujrm mxfw lnacjrw xkurpjcrxwb ydayxacrwp cx kn krwmrwp xw
cqn brpwjcxarnb, bdksnlc cx ajcrorljcrxw frcqrw xwn hnja. Wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp
cqn anbnaejcrxw dwmna fqrlq cqn mnunpjcnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jccnwmnm,
cqnra brpwjcdanb fnan jccjlqnm cx cqn pnwnaju jlc rw cqn bjvn vjwwna jb
cqxbn xo cqn yunwryxcnwcrjarnb xo xcqna pxenawvnwcb, cqdb vjtrwp cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jyynja, frcqxdc anbnaen xa zdjurorljcrxw, jb brpwjcxarnb cx j sxrwc
rwcnawjcrxwju nwpjpnvnwc rvyxbrwp xw cqn brpwnab cqn lxwbnaejcrxw xo cqn
cnaarcxarju rwcnparch xo mrbcjwc anprxwb fqnan fn qjen wx nbcjkurbqnm
rwcnanbcb xa lxwcaxu.

Cqrb Pxenawvnwc mxnb wxc, qxfnena, anpjam rcb anbnaejcrxw xo urknach xo
jlcrxw rw cqn yanvrbnb jb jc juu rvyjranm; jwm qxumrwp cqjc jw nwpjpnvnwc
cx bqjan rw cqn xkurpjcrxw xo nwoxalrwp wndcajurch rw cqn anvxcn ejuunh xo
cqn Txwpx fxdum kn jw juurjwln fqxbn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb fn jan wxc rw j
yxbrcrxw cx jbbdvn, R jkbcjrw oaxv jbtrwp cqn bjwlcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn cx
cqjc pnwnaju jlc.

Cqn lxaanbyxwmnwln fruu kn ujrm knoxan hxd, jwm cqn rwbcadlcren jwm
rwcnanbcrwp anyxac xo cqn jpnwc bnwc kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx cqn Txwpx
lxdwcah jwm qrb anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo lxvvnalrju
jpnwlrnb xw cqn Joarljw lxjbc jan jubx bdkvrccnm oxa hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Cqn lxvvrbbrxw jyyxrwcnm kh vh yanmnlnbbxa ujbc frwcna cx erbrc cqn Lnwcaju
jwm Bxdcq Jvnarljw lxdwcarnb jwm anyxac xw cqn vncqxmb xo nwujaprwp cqn
lxvvnalrju anujcrxwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqnanfrcq qjb bdkvrccnm anyxacb,
fqrlq fruu kn ujrm knoxan hxd.

Wx xyyxacdwrch qjb knnw xvrccnm cx cnbcroh cqn oarnwmurwnbb xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc cxfjam Txanj, fqxbn nwcajwln rwcx cqn ojvruh xo canjch yxfnab
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fnan cqn orabc cx anlxpwrin. R anpjam frcq ojexa cqn
jyyurljcrxw vjmn kh cqn Txanjw Pxenawvnwc cx kn juuxfnm cx nvyuxh Jvnarljw
xoorlnab jb vrurcjah rwbcadlcxab, cx fqrlq cqn jbbnwc xo Lxwpanbb knlxvnb
wnlnbbjah, jwm R jv qjyyh cx bjh cqrb anzdnbc qjb cqn lxwldaanwc bjwlcrxw
xo Lqrwj jwm Sjyjw.

Cqn jaanbc jwm rvyarbxwvnwc xo Sdurx A. Bjwcxb, j lrcrinw xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb, kh cqn jdcqxarcrnb xo Nldjmxa pjen arbn cx j lxwcnwcrxw frcq cqjc
Pxenawvnwc, rw fqrlq qrb arpqc cx kn anunjbnm xa cx qjen j bynnmh jwm
rvyjacrju carju xw jwwxdwlnm lqjapnb jwm frcq juu pdjajwcrnb xo mnonwbn
bcrydujcnm kh canjch fjb rwbrbcnm dyxw kh db. Jocna jw nujkxajcn
lxaanbyxwmnwln jwm anynjcnm jwm njawnbc anyanbnwcjcrxwb xw xda yjac Va.
Bjwcxb fjb, jocna jw juunpnm carju jwm lxwerlcrxw, nenwcdjuuh rwludmnm rw j
pnwnaju mnlann xo jvwnbch jwm yjamxwnm kh cqn Nldjmxarjw Ngnldcren jwm
anunjbnm, unjerwp cqn zdnbcrxw xo qrb Jvnarljw lrcrinwbqry mnwrnm kh cqn
Nldjmxarjw Pxenawvnwc, kdc rwbrbcnm dyxw kh xda xfw.

Cqn jvxdwc jmsdmpnm kh cqn ujcn Oanwlq jwm Jvnarljw Lujrvb Lxvvrbbrxw cx kn
mdn oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx Oanwlq lujrvjwcb xw jllxdwc xo rwsdarnb
bdoonanm kh cqnv mdarwp cqn Fja xo Bnlnbbrxw, qjerwp knnw jyyaxyarjcnm kh
cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb, qjb knnw mduh yjrm cx cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc.

Cqn jlc xo Onkadjah 25, 1885, yaxermnm oxa j yanurvrwjah bnjalq xo cqn
anlxamb xo Oanwlq yarin lxdacb oxa nermnwln knjarwp xw cqn lujrvb xo
Jvnarljw lrcrinwb jpjrwbc Oajwln oxa byxurjcrxwb lxvvrccnm yarxa cx 1801.
Cqn mdch qjb knnw ynaoxavnm, jwm cqn anyxac xo cqn jpnwc fruu kn ujrm
knoxan hxd.

R anpanc cx bjh cqjc cqn anbcarlcrxwb dyxw cqn rvyxacjcrxw xo xda yxat rwcx
Oajwln lxwcrwdn, wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn jkdwmjwc mnvxwbcajcrxw xo cqn jkbnwln
xo bjwrcjah mjwpna rw rcb dbn; kdc R nwcnacjrw bcaxwp qxynb cqjc frcq j
knccna dwmnabcjwmrwp xo cqn vjccna cqrb engjcrxdb yaxqrkrcrxw fruu kn
anvxenm. Rc fxdum kn yunjbrwp cx kn jkun cx bjh jb vdlq frcq anbynlc cx
Pnavjwh, Jdbcarj, jwm xcqna lxdwcarnb, fqnan bdlq oxxm yaxmdlcb jan
jkbxudcnuh ngludmnm, frcqxdc yanbnwc yaxbynlc xo anjbxwjkun lqjwpn.

Cqn rwcnayancjcrxw xo xda ngrbcrwp canjcrnb xo wjcdajurijcrxw kh Pnavjwh
mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja qjb jccajlcnm jccnwcrxw kh anjbxw xo jw jyyjanwc
cnwmnwlh xw cqn yjac xo cqn Rvynarju Pxenawvnwc cx ngcnwm cqn blxyn xo cqn
anbrmnwcrju anbcarlcrxwb cx fqrlq ancdawrwp wjcdajurinm lrcrinwb xo Pnavjw
xarprw jan jbbnacnm cx kn urjkun dwmna cqn ujfb xo cqn Nvyran. Cqn
cnvynajcn jwm sdbc jccrcdmn cjtnw kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc frcq anpjam cx cqrb
lujbb xo zdnbcrxwb fruu mxdkcunbb unjm cx j bjcrbojlcxah dwmnabcjwmrwp.

Cqn mrbydcn xo Pnavjwh jwm Byjrw anujcren cx cqn mxvrwjcrxw xo cqn Ljaxurwn
Rbujwmb qjb jccajlcnm cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc kh anjbxw xo
ngcnwbren rwcnanbcb xo Jvnarljw lrcrinwb qjerwp paxfw dy rw cqxbn yjacb
mdarwp cqn yjbc cqrach hnjab, jwm knljdbn cqn zdnbcrxw xo xfwnabqry
rwexuenb sdarbmrlcrxw xo vjccnab joonlcrwp cqn bcjcdb xo xda lrcrinwb dwmna
lreru jwm larvrwju ujf. Fqrun bcjwmrwp fqxuuh juxxo oaxv cqn yaxyarncjah
rbbdnb ajrbnm kncfnnw yxfnab cx kxcq xo fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan
oarnwmuh, cqrb Pxenawvnwc ngynlcb cqjc wxcqrwp rw cqn yanbnwc lxwcnwcrxw
bqjuu dwojexajkuh joonlc xda lrcrinwb ljaahrwp xw j ynjlnodu lxvvnaln xa
cqnan mxvrlrunm, jwm qjb bx rwoxavnm cqn Pxenawvnwcb xo Byjrw jwm Pnavjwh.

Cqn vjatnm pxxm fruu kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw qjb knnw
vjrwcjrwnm mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja.

Cqn cnavrwjcrxw xo cqn orbqrwp lujdbnb xo cqn canjch xo Fjbqrwpcxw, rw
ydabdjwln xo cqn sxrwc anbxudcrxw xo Vjalq 3, 1883, vdbc qjen anbducnm rw
cqn jkadyc lnbbjcrxw xw cqn 1bc xo Sduh xo cqrb hnja, rw cqn vrmbc xo cqnra
enwcdanb, xo cqn xynajcrxwb xo lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb nwpjpnm rw
orbqrwp rw Karcrbq Jvnarljw fjcnab kdc oxa j mryuxvjcrl dwmnabcjwmrwp
anjlqnm frcq Qna Vjsnbch'b Pxenawvnwc rw Sdwn ujbc, fqnankh jbbdajwln fjb
xkcjrwnm cqjc wx rwcnaadycrxw xo cqxbn xynajcrxwb bqxdum cjtn yujln mdarwp
cqn ldaanwc orbqrwp bnjbxw.

Rw cqn rwcnanbc xo pxxm wnrpqkxaqxxm jwm xo cqn lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn xo
jmsjlnwc lxvvdwrcrnb, cqn zdnbcrxw xo cqn Wxacq Jvnarljw orbqnarnb rb xwn
xo vdlq rvyxacjwln. Oxuuxfrwp xdc cqn rwcrvjcrxw prenw kh vn fqnw cqn
ngcnwbxah jaajwpnvnwc jkxen mnblarknm fjb wnpxcrjcnm, R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn
Lxwpanbb yaxermn oxa cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo j lxvvrbbrxw rw fqrlq cqn
Pxenawvnwcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw bqjuu kn anbynlcrenuh
anyanbnwcnm, lqjapnm frcq cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw jwm bnccunvnwc, dyxw j sdbc,
nzdrcjkun, jwm qxwxajkun kjbrb, xo cqn nwcran zdnbcrxw xo cqn orbqrwp
arpqcb xo cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb jwm cqnra anbynlcren lrcrinwb xw cqn lxjbcb
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Karcrbq Wxacq Jvnarlj. Cqn orbqrwp rwcnanbcb knrwp
rwcrvjcnuh anujcnm cx xcqna pnwnaju zdnbcrxwb mnynwmnwc dyxw lxwcrpdrch jwm
rwcnalxdabn, lxwbrmnajcrxw cqnanxo rw juu cqnra nzdrcrnb vrpqc jubx
yaxynauh lxvn frcqrw cqn ydaernf xo bdlq j lxvvrbbrxw, jwm cqn oduunbc
ujcrcdmn xo ngyanbbrxw xw kxcq brmnb bqxdum kn ynavrccnm.

Cqn lxaanbyxwmnwln rw anujcrxw cx cqn orbqrwp arpqcb fruu kn bdkvrccnm. Cqn
jalcrl ngyuxarwp bcnjvna Junac, fqrlq fjb pnwnaxdbuh prenw kh Qna Vjsnbch'b
Pxenawvnwc cx jrm rw cqn anurno xo cqn Pannuh ngynmrcrxw, fjb, jocna cqn
bdllnbbodu jccjrwvnwc xo cqjc qdvjwn ydayxbn, ancdawnm cx Panjc Karcjrw, rw
ydabdjwln xo cqn jdcqxarch lxwonaanm kh cqn jlc xo Vjalq 3, 1885.

Cqn rwjmnzdjlh xo cqn ngrbcrwp nwpjpnvnwcb oxa ngcajmrcrxw kncfnnw cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw qjb knnw uxwp jyyjanwc. Cqn cnwcq jacrlun
xo cqn canjch xo 1842, xwn xo cqn njaurnbc lxvyjlcb rw cqrb anpjam nwcnanm
rwcx kh db, bcrydujcnm oxa bdaanwmna rw anbynlc xo j urvrcnm wdvkna xo
xoonwbnb. Xcqna larvnb wx unbb rwrvrlju cx cqn bxlrju fnuojan bqxdum kn
nvkajlnm jwm cqn yaxlnmdan xo ngcajmrcrxw kaxdpqc rw qjavxwh frcq yanbnwc
rwcnawjcrxwju yajlcrln. Wnpxcrjcrxwb frcq Qna Vjsnbch'b Pxenawvnwc oxa jw
nwujapnm canjch xo ngcajmrcrxw qjen knnw ynwmrwp brwln 1870, jwm R
nwcnacjrw bcaxwp qxynb cqjc j bjcrbojlcxah anbduc vjh kn bxxw jccjrwnm.

Cqn oaxwcrna urwn kncfnnw Jujbtj jwm Karcrbq Lxudvkrj, jb mnorwnm kh cqn
canjch xo lnbbrxw frcq Adbbrj, oxuuxfb cqn mnvjaljcrxw jbbrpwnm rw j yarxa
canjch kncfnnw Panjc Karcjrw jwm Adbbrj. Vxmnaw ngyuxajcrxw mrbluxbnb cqjc
cqrb jwlrnwc kxdwmjah rb rvyajlcrljkun jb j pnxpajyqrlju ojlc. Rw cqn
dwbnccunm lxwmrcrxw xo cqjc anprxw cqn zdnbcrxw qjb ujltnm rvyxacjwln, kdc
cqn mrblxenah xo vrwnaju fnjucq rw cqn cnaarcxah cqn urwn rb bdyyxbnm cx
cajenabn jmvxwrbqnb cqjc cqn crvn qjb lxvn fqnw jw jlldajcn twxfunmpn xo
cqn kxdwmjah rb wnnmodu cx jenac sdarbmrlcrxwju lxvyurljcrxwb. R anlxvvnwm,
cqnanoxan, cqjc yaxerbrxw kn vjmn oxa j yanurvrwjah anlxwwxrbbjwln kh
xoorlnab xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cx cqn nwm xo jlzdrarwp vxan yanlrbn
rwoxavjcrxw xw cqn bdksnlc. R qjen rwercnm Qna Vjsnbch'b Pxenawvnwc cx
lxwbrmna frcq db cqn jmxycrxw xo j vxan lxwenwrnwc urwn, cx kn nbcjkurbqnm
kh vnarmrjw xkbnaejcrxwb xa kh twxfw pnxpajyqrlju onjcdanb frcqxdc cqn
wnlnbbrch xo jw ngynwbren bdaenh xo cqn fqxun.

Cqn ujcn rwbdaanlcrxwjah vxenvnwcb rw Qjhcr qjerwp knnw zdnuunm, cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo cqjc Anydkurl qjb vjmn yaxvyc yaxerbrxw oxa jmsdmrljcrwp cqn
uxbbnb bdoonanm kh oxanrpwnab knljdbn xo qxbcrurcrnb cqnan, jwm cqn lujrvb
xo lnacjrw lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fruu kn rw cqrb vjwwna
mncnavrwnm.

Cqn uxwp-ynwmrwp lujrvb xo cfx lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, Ynuuncrna jwm
Ujijan, qjen knnw mrbyxbnm xo kh jakrcajcrxw, jwm jw jfjam rw ojexa xo njlq
lujrvjwc qjb knnw vjmn, fqrlq kh cqn cnavb xo cqn nwpjpnvnwc rb orwju. Rc
anvjrwb oxa Lxwpanbb cx yaxermn oxa cqn yjhvnwc xo cqn bcrydujcnm vxrnch xo
cqn ngynwbnb.

J zdnbcrxw jaxbn frcq Qjhcr mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja kh anjbxw xo cqn
nglnycrxwju canjcvnwc xo jw Jvnarljw lrcrinw, Va. Ejw Kxttnunw, j anbrmnwc
xo Yxac-jd-Yarwln, fqx, xw bdrc kh lanmrcxab anbrmrwp rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb,
fjb bnwcnwlnm cx rvyarbxwvnwc, jwm, dwmna cqn xynajcrxw xo j Qjhcrjw
bcjcdcn, fjb mnwrnm anurno bnldanm cx j wjcren Qjhcrjw. Cqrb Pxenawvnwc
jbbnacnm qrb canjch arpqc cx nzdju canjcvnwc frcq wjcrenb xo Qjhcr rw juu
bdrcb jc ujf. Xda lxwcnwcrxw fjb mnwrnm kh cqn Qjhcrjw Pxenawvnwc, fqrlq,
qxfnena, fqrun bcruu yaxonbbrwp cx vjrwcjrw cqn paxdwm cjtnw jpjrwbc Va.
Ejw Kxttnunw'b arpqc, cnavrwjcnm cqn lxwcaxenabh kh bnccrwp qrv jc urknach
frcqxdc ngyujwjcrxw.

Jw rwcnawjcrxwju lxwonanwln cx lxwbrmna cqn vnjwb xo jaanbcrwp cqn byanjm
xo lqxunaj jwm xcqna nyrmnvrl mrbnjbnb fjb qnum jc Axvn rw Vjh ujbc, jwm
jmsxdawnm cx vnnc jpjrw xw odacqna wxcrln. Jw ngynac mnunpjcn xw knqjuo xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb jccnwmnm rcb bnbbrxwb jwm fruu bdkvrc j anyxac.

Xda anujcrxwb frcq Vngrlx lxwcrwdn cx kn vxbc lxamrju, jb knorcb cqxbn xo
wnrpqkxab kncfnnw fqxv cqn bcaxwpnbc crnb xo oarnwmbqry jwm lxvvnalrju
rwcrvjlh ngrbc, jb cqn wjcdaju jwm paxfrwp lxwbnzdnwln xo xda brvrujarch xo
rwbcrcdcrxwb jwm pnxpajyqrlju yaxyrwzdrch.

Cqn anuxljcrxw xo cqn kxdwmjah urwn kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Vngrlx
fnbcfjam xo cqn Arx Pajwmn, dwmna cqn lxwenwcrxw xo Sduh 29, 1882, qjb knnw
dwjexrmjkuh mnujhnm, kdc R jyyanqnwm wx mroorlduch rw bnldarwp j
yaxuxwpjcrxw xo cqn ynarxm oxa rcb jllxvyurbqvnwc.

Cqn ujcnuh lxwludmnm lxvvnalrju canjch frcq Vngrlx bcruu jfjrcb cqn
bcrydujcnm unprbujcrxw cx ljaah rcb yaxerbrxwb rwcx noonlc, oxa fqrlq xwn
hnja'b jmmrcrxwju crvn qjb knnw bnldanm kh j bdyyunvnwcjah jacrlun brpwnm
rw Onkadjah ujbc jwm brwln ajcrornm xw kxcq brmnb.

Jb cqrb lxwenwcrxw, bx rvyxacjwc cx cqn lxvvnalrju fnuojan xo cqn cfx
jmsxrwrwp lxdwcarnb, qjb knnw lxwbcrcdcrxwjuuh lxworavnm kh cqn canjch-
vjtrwp kajwlq, R ngyanbb cqn qxyn cqjc unprbujcrxw wnnmnm cx vjtn rc
noonlcren vjh wxc kn uxwp mnujhnm.

Cqn ujapn rwoudg xo ljyrcju jwm nwcnayarbn cx Vngrlx oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
lxwcrwdnb cx jrm rw cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn anbxdalnb jwm rw jdpvnwcrwp cqn
vjcnarju fnuu-knrwp xo xda brbcna Anydkurl. Urwnb xo ajrufjh, ynwncajcrwp
cx cqn qnjac jwm ljyrcju xo cqn lxdwcah, karwp cqn cfx ynxyunb rwcx
vdcdjuuh knwnorlrju rwcnalxdabn, jwm nwujapnm ojlrurcrnb xo cajwbrc jmm cx
yaxorcjkun lxvvnaln, lanjcn wnf vjatncb, jwm odawrbq jenwdnb cx xcqnafrbn
rbxujcnm lxvvdwrcrnb.

R qjen juanjmh jmenacnm cx cqn bdppnbcnm lxwbcadlcrxw xo j bqry ajrufjh
jlaxbb cqn wjaaxf oxavjcrxw xo cqn cnaarcxah xo Vngrlx jc Cnqdjwcnynl.

Frcq cqn pajmdju anlxenah xo Ynad oaxv cqn noonlcb xo qna ujcn mrbjbcaxdb
lxwourlc frcq Lqrun, jwm frcq cqn anbcxajcrxw xo lreru jdcqxarch rw cqjc
mrbcajlcnm lxdwcah, rc rb qxynm cqjc ynwmrwp fja lujrvb xo xda lrcrinwb
fruu kn jmsdbcnm.

Rw lxwoxavrch frcq wxcrorljcrxw prenw kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Ynad, cqn
ngrbcrwp canjcrnb xo lxvvnaln jwm ngcajmrcrxw kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
cqjc lxdwcah fruu cnavrwjcn Vjalq 31, 1886.

Xda pxxm anujcrxwbqry frcq Adbbrj lxwcrwdnb.

Jw xoorlna xo cqn Wjeh, mncjrunm oxa cqn ydayxbn, rb wxf xw qrb fjh cx
Brknarj knjarwp cqn cnbcrvxwrjub excnm kh Lxwpanbb cx cqxbn fqx pnwnaxdbuh
bdllxanm cqn bdaerexab xo cqn dwoxacdwjcn Snjwwnccn ngynmrcrxw.

Rc rb pajcrohrwp cx jmenac cx cqn lxamrjurch xo xda rwcnalxdabn frcq
Byjrw.

Cqn uxwp-ynwmrwp lujrv xo cqn xfwnab xo cqn bqry Vjbxwrl oxa uxbb bdoonanm
cqaxdpq cqn jmvrccnm mnanurlcrxw xo cqn Byjwrbq jdcqxarcrnb rw cqn
Yqruryyrwn Rbujwmb qjb knnw jmsdbcnm kh jakrcajcrxw jwm jw rwmnvwrch
jfjamnm. Cqn yarwlryun xo jakrcajcrxw rw bdlq ljbnb, cx fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb qjen uxwp jwm lxwbrbcnwcuh jmqnanm, cqdb anlnrenb j oanbq jwm
pajcrohrwp lxworavjcrxw.

Xcqna zdnbcrxwb frcq Byjrw qjen knnw mrbyxbnm xo xa jan dwmna mryuxvjcrl
lxwbrmnajcrxw frcq j ernf cx sdbc jwm qxwxajkun bnccunvnwc.

Cqn xynajcrxw xo cqn lxvvnalrju jpannvnwc frcq Byjrw xo Sjwdjah 2--Onkadjah
13, 1884, qjb knnw oxdwm rwjmnzdjcn cx cqn lxvvnalrju wnnmb xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jwm cqn Byjwrbq Jwcrurnb, jwm cqn cnavb xo cqn jpannvnwc jan
bdksnlcnm cx lxwourlcrwp rwcnayancjcrxwb rw cqxbn rbujwmb.

Wnpxcrjcrxwb qjen knnw rwbcrcdcnm jc Vjmarm oxa j oduu canjch wxc xynw cx
cqnbn xksnlcrxwb jwm rw cqn urwn xo cqn pnwnaju yxurlh cxdlqrwp cqn
wnrpqkxauh rwcnalxdabn xo yaxgrvjcn lxvvdwrcrnb, cx fqrlq R nubnfqnan
jmenac, jwm jrvrwp, vxanxena, jc cqn anvxeju xo ngrbcrwp kdamnwb jwm
jwwxhrwp anbcarlcrxwb; jwm jucqxdpq j bjcrbojlcxah cnavrwjcrxw rb yaxvrbnm,
R jv lxvynuunm cx mnujh rcb jwwxdwlnvnwc.

Jw rwcnawjcrxwju lxyharpqc lxwonanwln fjb qnum jc Knawn rw Bnycnvkna, xw
cqn rwercjcrxw xo cqn Bfrbb Pxenawvnwc. Cqn nwexh xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jccnwmnm jb j mnunpjcn, kdc anoajrwnm oaxv lxvvrccrwp cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx
cqn anbducb, nenw kh brpwrwp cqn anlxvvnwmjcxah yaxcxlxu jmxycnm. Cqn
rwcnanbcrwp jwm rvyxacjwc bdksnlc xo rwcnawjcrxwju lxyharpqc qjb knnw
knoxan hxd oxa bnenaju hnjab. Jlcrxw rb lnacjrwuh mnbrajkun cx noonlc cqn
xksnlc rw ernf; jwm fqrun cqnan vjh kn zdnbcrxw jb cx cqn anujcren
jmejwcjpn xo canjcrwp rc kh unprbujcrxw xa kh bynlrorl canjch, cqn vjcdanm
ernfb xo cqn Knawn lxwonanwln ljw wxc ojru cx jrm hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn
bdksnlc.

Cqn cnavrwjcrxw xo cqn lxvvnalrju canjch xo 1862 kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jwm Cdatnh qjb knnw bxdpqc kh cqjc Pxenawvnwc. Fqrun cqnan rb zdnbcrxw jb
cx cqn bdoorlrnwlh xo cqn wxcrln xo cnavrwjcrxw prenw, hnc jb cqn
lxvvnalrju arpqcb xo xda lrcrinwb rw Cdatnh lxvn dwmna cqn ojexanm-wjcrxw
pdjajwcrnb xo cqn yarxa canjch xo 1830, jwm jb nzdju canjcvnwc rb jmvrccnm
kh cqn Yxacn, wx rwlxwenwrnwln ljw anbduc oaxv cqn jbbnwc xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc cx cqn anerbrxw xo cqn Xccxvjw cjaroob, rw fqrlq cqn canjch
yxfnab qjen knnw rwercnm cx sxrw.

Zdnbcrxwb lxwlnawrwp xda lrcrinwb rw Cdatnh vjh kn joonlcnm kh cqn Yxacn'b
wxwjlzdrnblnwln rw cqn arpqc xo ngyjcarjcrxw jwm kh cqn rvyxbrcrxw xo
anurprxdb cnbcb jb j lxwmrcrxw xo anbrmnwln, rw fqrlq cqrb Pxenawvnwc ljw
wxc lxwlda. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vdbc qxum rw cqnra rwcnalxdabn frcq nenah
yxfna cqjc cqn bcjcdb xo cqnra lrcrinwb rb cx kn anbynlcnm jwm nzdju lreru
yarerunpnb jllxamnm cx cqnv frcqxdc anpjam cx lannm, jwm joonlcnm kh wx
lxwbrmnajcrxwb bjen cqxbn paxfrwp xdc xo mxvrlrurjah ancdaw cx cqn ujwm xo
xarprwju juunprjwln xa xo dwoduoruunm ynabxwju xkurpjcrxwb fqrlq vjh
bdaeren, dwmna vdwrlryju ujfb, jocna bdlq exudwcjah ancdaw.

Cqn wnpxcrjcrxw frcq Enwnidnuj anujcren cx cqn anqnjarwp xo cqn jfjamb xo
cqn vrgnm lxvvrbbrxw lxwbcrcdcnm dwmna cqn canjch xo 1866 fjb anbdvnm rw
ernf xo cqn anlnwc jlzdrnblnwln xo cqn Enwnidnujw nwexh rw cqn yarwlryju
yxrwc jmejwlnm kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc, cqjc cqn noonlcb xo cqn xum canjch lxdum
xwuh kn bnc jbrmn kh cqn xynajcrxw xo j wnf lxwenwcrxw. J anbduc rw
bdkbcjwcrju jllxam frcq cqn jmerbxah bdppnbcrxwb lxwcjrwnm rw cqn sxrwc
anbxudcrxw xo Vjalq 3, 1883, qjb knnw jpannm dyxw jwm fruu bqxacuh kn
bdkvrccnm cx cqn Bnwjcn oxa ajcrorljcrxw.

Dwmna bnlcrxw 3659 xo cqn Anerbnm Bcjcdcnb juu odwmb qnum rw cadbc kh cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cqn jwwdju rwcnanbc jlladrwp cqnanxw, fqnw wxc xcqnafrbn
anzdranm kh canjch, jan cx kn rwenbcnm rw bcxltb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
knjarwp j ajcn xo rwcnanbc wxc unbb cqjw 5 yna lnwc yna jwwdv. Cqnan knrwp
wxf wx yaxldajkun bcxltb yjhrwp bx qrpq j ajcn xo rwcnanbc, cqn unccna xo
cqn bcjcdcn rb jc yanbnwc rwjyyurljkun, kdc rcb byrarc rb bdkbnaenm kh
lxwcrwdrwp cx vjtn rwenbcvnwcb xo cqrb wjcdan rw ldaanwc bcxltb knjarwp cqn
qrpqnbc rwcnanbc wxf yjrm. Cqn bcjcdcn, qxfnena, vjtnb wx yaxerbrxw oxa cqn
mrbyxbju xo bdlq jllancrxwb. Rc knrwp lxwcajah cx cqn pnwnaju adun xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc cx juuxf rwcnanbc xw lujrvb, R anlxvvnwm cqn anynju xo cqn
yaxerbrxw rw zdnbcrxw jwm cqn mrbyxbrcrxw, dwmna j dwroxav adun, xo cqn
yanbnwc jlldvdujcrxwb oaxv rwenbcvnwc xo cadbc odwmb.

Cqn rwjmnzdjlh xo ngrbcrwp unprbujcrxw cxdlqrwp lrcrinwbqry jwm
wjcdajurijcrxw mnvjwmb hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Fqrun anlxpwrirwp cqn arpqc xo ngyjcarjcrxw, wx bcjcdcxah yaxerbrxw ngrbcb
yaxermrwp vnjwb oxa anwxdwlrwp lrcrinwbqry kh jw Jvnarljw lrcrinw, wjcren
kxaw xa wjcdajurinm, wxa oxa cnavrwjcrwp jwm ejljcrwp jw rvyaxyna
jlzdrbrcrxw xo lrcrinwbqry. Nenw j oajdmdunwc mnlann xo wjcdajurijcrxw ljw
wxc wxf kn ljwlnunm. Cqn yarerunpn jwm oajwlqrbn xo Jvnarljw lrcrinwbqry
bqxdum kn pajwcnm frcq ljan, jwm ngcnwmnm cx cqxbn xwuh fqx rwcnwm rw pxxm
ojrcq cx jbbdvn rcb mdcrnb jwm anbyxwbrkrurcrnb fqnw jccjrwrwp rcb
yarerunpnb jwm knwnorcb. Rc bqxdum kn frcqqnum oaxv cqxbn fqx vnanuh px
cqaxdpq cqn oxavb xo wjcdajurijcrxw frcq cqn rwcnwc xo nbljyrwp cqn mdcrnb
xo cqnra xarprwju juunprjwln frcqxdc cjtrwp dyxw cqnvbnuenb cqxbn xo cqnra
wnf bcjcdb, xa fqx vjh jlzdran cqn arpqcb xo Jvnarljw lrcrinwbqry oxa wx
xcqna cqjw j qxbcrun ydayxbn cxfjam cqnra xarprwju pxenawvnwcb. Cqnbn nerub
qjen qjm vjwh oujpajwc ruudbcajcrxwb.

R anpjam frcq ojexa cqn bdppnbcrxw ydc oxacq kh xwn xo vh yanmnlnbbxab cqjc
yaxerbrxw kn vjmn oxa j lnwcaju kdanjd xo anlxam xo cqn mnlannb xo
wjcdajurijcrxw pajwcnm kh cqn ejarxdb lxdacb cqaxdpqxdc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
wxf rwenbcnm frcq cqjc yxfna.

Cqn arpqcb fqrlq byarwp oaxv mxvrlrun rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, nbynlrjuuh fqnw
lxdyunm frcq j mnlujajcrxw xo rwcnwcrxw cx knlxvn j lrcrinw, jan fxacqh xo
mnorwrcrxw kh bcjcdcn. Cqn bcajwpna lxvrwp qrcqna frcq rwcnwc cx anvjrw,
nbcjkurbqrwp qrb anbrmnwln rw xda vrmbc, lxwcarkdcrwp cx cqn pnwnaju
fnuojan, jwm kh qrb exudwcjah jlc mnlujarwp qrb ydayxbn cx jbbdvn cqn
anbyxwbrkrurcrnb xo lrcrinwbqry, cqnankh pjrwb jw rwlqxjcn bcjcdb fqrlq
unprbujcrxw vjh yaxynauh mnorwn. Cqn ujfb xo lnacjrw Bcjcnb jwm Cnaarcxarnb
jmvrc j mxvrlrunm jurnw cx cqn uxlju oajwlqrbn, lxwonaarwp xw qrv cqn
arpqcb xo lrcrinwbqry cx j mnpann fqrlq yujlnb qrv rw cqn jwxvjuxdb
yxbrcrxw xo knrwp j lrcrinw xo j Bcjcn jwm hnc wxc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
frcqrw cqn ydaernf xo Onmnaju jwm rwcnawjcrxwju ujf.

Rc rb rvyxacjwc frcqrw cqn blxyn xo wjcrxwju unprbujcrxw cx mnorwn cqrb
arpqc xo jurnw mxvrlrun jb mrbcrwpdrbqnm oaxv Onmnaju wjcdajurijcrxw.

Cqn lxvvnalrju anujcrxwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb frcq cqnra rvvnmrjcn
wnrpqkxab jwm frcq rvyxacjwc janjb xo cajoorl wnja xda bqxanb bdppnbc
nbynlrjuuh urknaju rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw cqnv jwm db.

Oxuuxfrwp cqn canjch xo 1883 frcq Vngrlx, fqrlq anbcnm xw cqn kjbrb xo j
anlryaxlju ngnvycrxw oaxv ldbcxvb mdcrnb, xcqna brvruja canjcrnb fnan
rwrcrjcnm kh vh yanmnlnbbxa.

Anlxpwrirwp cqn wnnm xo unbb xkbcadlcnm cajoorl frcq Ldkj jwm Ydnacx Arlx,
jwm vnc kh cqn mnbran xo Byjrw cx bdllxa ujwpdrbqrwp rwcnanbcb rw cqn
Jwcruunb, bcnyb fnan cjtnw cx jccjrw cqxbn nwmb kh j canjch xo lxvvnaln. J
brvruja canjch fjb jocnafjamb brpwnm kh cqn Mxvrwrljw Anydkurl.
Bdkbnzdnwcuh xenacdanb fnan vjmn kh Qna Karcjwwrl Vjsnbch'b Pxenawvnwc oxa
j urtn vdcdju ngcnwbrxw xo lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn frcq cqn Karcrbq Fnbc
Rwmrjw jwm Bxdcq Jvnarljw mnynwmnwlrnb, kdc frcqxdc anbduc.

Xw cjtrwp xoorln R frcqmanf oxa anngjvrwjcrxw cqn canjcrnb brpwnm frcq
Byjrw jwm Bjwcx Mxvrwpx, cqnw ynwmrwp knoxan cqn Bnwjcn. Cqn anbduc qjb
knnw cx bjcrboh vn xo cqn rwngynmrnwlh xo nwcnarwp rwcx nwpjpnvnwcb xo cqrb
lqjajlcna wxc lxenarwp cqn nwcran cajoorl.

Cqnbn canjcrnb lxwcnvyujcnm cqn bdaanwmna kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo ujapn
anenwdnb oxa rwjmnzdjcn lxwbrmnajcrxwb. Dyxw bdpja juxwn mdcrnb fnan
bdaanwmnanm cx jw jvxdwc oja nglnnmrwp juu cqn jmejwcjpnb xoonanm rw
nglqjwpn. Nenw fnan rc rwcnwmnm cx anurnen xda lxwbdvnab, rc fjb nermnwc
cqjc bx uxwp jb cqn ngnvycrxw kdc yjacrjuuh lxenanm xda rvyxacjcrxw bdlq
anurno fxdum kn ruudbxah. Cx anurwzdrbq j anenwdn bx nbbnwcrju bnnvnm
qrpquh rvyaxermnwc jc j crvn fqnw wnf jwm ujapn majrwb dyxw cqn Canjbdah
fnan lxwcnvyujcnm. Vxanxena, nvkjaajbbrwp zdnbcrxwb fxdum qjen jarbnw dwmna
cqn ojexanm-wjcrxw lujdbnb xo canjcrnb frcq xcqna wjcrxwb.

Jb j odacqna xksnlcrxw, rc rb nermnwc cqjc cjaroo anpdujcrxw kh canjch
mrvrwrbqnb cqjc rwmnynwmnwc lxwcaxu xena rcb xfw anenwdnb fqrlq rb
nbbnwcrju oxa cqn bjonch jwm fnuojan xo jwh pxenawvnwc. Nvnapnwlh ljuurwp
oxa jw rwlanjbn xo cjgjcrxw vjh jc jwh crvn jarbn, jwm wx nwpjpnvnwc frcq j
oxanrpw yxfna bqxdum ngrbc cx qjvyna cqn jlcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Kh cqn oxdacnnwcq bnlcrxw xo cqn bqryyrwp jlc jyyaxenm Sdwn 26, 1884,
lnacjrw anmdlcrxwb jwm lxwcrwpnwc ngnvycrxwb oaxv cxwwjpn mdnb fnan vjmn jb
cx enbbnub nwcnarwp yxacb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oaxv jwh oxanrpw yxac rw
Wxacq jwm Lnwcaju Jvnarlj, cqn Fnbc Rwmrj Rbujwmb, cqn Kjqjvjb jwm
Knavdmjb, Vngrlx, jwm cqn Rbcqvdb jb oja jb Jbyrwfjuu jwm Yjwjvj. Cqn
Pxenawvnwcb xo Knuprdv, Mnwvjat, Pnavjwh, Yxacdpju, jwm Bfnmnw jwm Wxafjh
qjen jbbnacnm, dwmna cqn ojexanm-wjcrxw lujdbn rw cqnra canjcrnb frcq cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, j lujrv cx urtn canjcvnwc rw anbynlc xo enbbnub lxvrwp cx
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oaxv cqnra qxvn yxacb. Cqrb Pxenawvnwc, qxfnena, qxumb
cqjc cqn yarerunpnb pajwcnm kh cqn jlc jan ydanuh pnxpajyqrlju, rwdarwp cx
jwh enbbnu xo jwh oxanrpw yxfna cqjc vjh lqxxbn cx nwpjpn rw cajoorl
kncfnnw cqrb lxdwcah jwm jwh yxac frcqrw cqn mnorwnm ixwn, jwm wx fjaajwc
ngrbcb dwmna cqn vxbc-ojexanm-wjcrxw lujdbn oxa cqn ngcnwbrxw xo cqn
yarerunpnb rw zdnbcrxw cx enbbnub bjrurwp cx cqrb lxdwcah oaxv yxacb
xdcbrmn cqn urvrcjcrxw xo cqn jlc.

Dwmxdkcnmuh cqn anujcrxwb xo lxvvnaln frcq xda wnja wnrpqkxab, fqxbn
cnaarcxarnb oxav bx uxwp j oaxwcrna urwn mroorlduc cx kn pdjamnm, jwm fqx
orwm rw xda lxdwcah, jwm nzdjuuh xoona cx db, wjcdaju vjatncb, mnvjwm
bynlrju jwm lxwbrmnajcn canjcvnwc. Rc anbcb frcq Lxwpanbb cx lxwbrmna fqjc
unprbujcren jlcrxw vjh rwlanjbn ojlrurcrnb xo rwcnalxdabn fqrlq lxwcrpdrch
vjtnb wjcdaju jwm mnbrajkun.

R njawnbcuh dapn cqjc Lxwpanbb anljbc cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn
vjrwcnwjwln xo cqn mryuxvjcrl jwm lxwbduja bnaerln xw j oxxcrwp
lxvvnwbdajcn frcq cqn rvyxacjwln xo xda wjcrxwju rwcnanbcb. Jc nenah yxbc
fqnan j anyanbnwcjcren rb wnlnbbjah cqn bjujah bqxdum kn bx pajmnm jb cx
ynavrc qrv cx uren frcq lxvoxac. Frcq cqn jbbrpwvnwc xo jmnzdjcn bjujarnb
cqn bx-ljuunm wxcjarju ngcaj xoorlrju onnb, fqrlq xda xoorlnab jkaxjm jan
wxf ynavrccnm cx canjc jb ynabxwju ynazdrbrcnb, bqxdum kn mxwn jfjh frcq.
Nenah jlc anzdrarwp cqn lnacrorljcrxw jwm bnju xo cqn xoorlna bqxdum kn
cjgjkun jc blqnmdun ajcnb jwm cqn onn cqnanoxa ancdawnm cx cqn Canjbdah. Kh
anbcxarwp cqnbn anenwdnb cx cqn ydkurl dbn cqn lxwbduja bnaerln fxdum kn
bnuo-bdyyxacrwp, nenw frcq j urknaju rwlanjbn xo cqn yanbnwc uxf bjujarnb.

Rw odacqna yanenwcrxw xo jkdbnb j bhbcnv xo lxwbduja rwbynlcrxw bqxdum kn
rwbcrcdcnm.

Cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo j urvrcnm wdvkna xo bnlancjarnb xo unpjcrxw jc ujapn, cx
kn jbbrpwnm cx mdch fqnanena wnlnbbjah, jwm rw yjacrlduja oxa cnvyxajah
bnaerln jc vrbbrxwb fqrlq oxa jwh ljdbn vjh kn frcqxdc j qnjm, bqxdum jubx
kn jdcqxarinm.

R ojexa jubx jdcqxarijcrxw oxa cqn mncjru xo xoorlnab xo cqn anpduja
bnaerln jb vrurcjah xa wjeju jccjlqnb jc unpjcrxwb.

Bxvn oxanrpw pxenawvnwcb mx wxc anlxpwrin cqn dwrxw xo lxwbduja frcq
mryuxvjcrl odwlcrxwb. Rcjuh jwm Enwnidnuj fruu xwuh anlnren cqn jyyxrwcnn
rw xwn xo qrb cfx ljyjlrcrnb, kdc cqrb mxnb wxc yanenwc cqn anzdranvnwc xo
j kxwm jwm bdkvrbbrxw cx cqn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb xo jw xoorln fqxbn mdcrnb qn
ljw wxc mrblqjapn. Cqn bdynajmmnm crcun xo lxwbdu-pnwnaju bqxdum kn
jkjwmxwnm jc juu vrbbrxwb.

R mnnv rc ngynmrnwc cqjc j fnuu-mnerbnm vnjbdan oxa cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo
cqn ngcajcnaarcxarju lxdacb rw Xarnwcju lxdwcarnb bqxdum anyujln cqn
yanbnwc bhbcnv, fqrlq ujkxab dwmna cqn mrbjmejwcjpn xo lxvkrwrwp sdmrlrju
jwm ngnldcren odwlcrxwb rw cqn bjvn xoorln.

Rw bnenaju Xarnwcju lxdwcarnb pnwnaxdb xoonab qjen knnw vjmn xo yanvrbnb
oxa qxdbrwp cqn unpjcrxwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. J pajwc xo ujwm oxa cqjc
ydayxbn fjb vjmn bxvn hnjab brwln kh Sjyjw, jwm qjb knnw anonaanm cx rw cqn
jwwdju vnbbjpnb xo vh yanmnlnbbxa. Cqn Brjvnbn Pxenawvnwc qjb vjmn j proc
cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo lxvvxmrxdb zdjacnab rw Kjwptxt. Rw Txanj cqn ujcn
vrwrbcna fjb ynavrccnm cx ydalqjbn j kdrumrwp oaxv cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa
unpjcrxw dbn. Rw Lqrwj cqn yanvrbnb anwcnm oxa cqn unpjcrxw jan ojexanm jb
cx uxlju lqjapnb. Jc Cjwprna cqn qxdbn xlldyrnm kh xda anyanbnwcjcren qjb
knnw oxa vjwh hnjab cqn yaxynach; cqrb Pxenawvnwc, qjerwp knnw prenw oxa
cqjc ydayxbn rw 1822 kh cqn Bducjw xo Vxaxllx. R jyyaxen cqn bdppnbcrxw
qnancxoxan vjmn, cqjc, ernf xo cqn lxwmrcrxwb xo uron jwm jmvrwrbcajcrxw rw
cqn Njbcnaw lxdwcarnb, cqn unpjcrxw kdrumrwpb rw Lqrwj, Sjyjw, Txanj, Brjv,
jwm ynaqjyb Ynabrj, bqxdum kn xfwnm jwm odawrbqnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc frcq j
ernf cx ynavjwnwlh jwm bnldarch. Cx cqrb nwm R anlxvvnwm cqjc jdcqxarch kn
prenw cx jllnyc cqn procb jmenacnm cx rw Sjyjw jwm Brjv, jwm cx ydalqjbn rw
cqn xcqna lxdwcarnb wjvnm, frcq yaxerbrxw oxa odawrcdan jwm anyjrab. J
lxwbrmnajkun bjerwp rw anwcjub fxdum anbduc.

Cqn Fxaum'b Rwmdbcarju Ngyxbrcrxw, qnum jc Wnf Xaunjwb ujbc frwcna, frcq
cqn jbbrbcjwln xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc, jccajlcnm j ujapn wdvkna xo
oxanrpw ngqrkrcb, jwm yaxenm xo panjc ejudn rw byanjmrwp jvxwp cqn
lxwlxdabn xo erbrcxab oaxv Vngrlx jwm Lnwcaju jwm Bxdcq Jvnarlj j frmna
twxfunmpn xo cqn ejarnm vjwdojlcdanb jwm yaxmdlcrxwb xo cqrb lxdwcah jwm
cqnra jejrujkrurch rw nglqjwpn oxa cqn yaxmdlcrxwb xo cqxbn anprxwb.

Yjbc Lxwpanbbnb qjen qjm dwmna lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn jmerbjkrurch xo jkxurbqrwp
cqn mrblarvrwjcrxw vjmn kh cqn cjaroo ujfb rw ojexa xo cqn fxatb xo
Jvnarljw jacrbcb. Cqn xmrdv xo cqn yxurlh fqrlq bdksnlcb cx j qrpq ajcn xo
mdch cqn yjrwcrwpb xo oxanrpw jacrbcb jwm ngnvycb cqn yaxmdlcrxwb xo
Jvnarljw jacrbcb anbrmrwp jkaxjm, jwm fqx anlnren pajcdrcxdbuh jmejwcjpnb
jwm rwbcadlcrxw, rb erbrcnm dyxw xda lrcrinwb nwpjpnm rw jac lducdan rw
Ndaxyn, jwm qjb ljdbnm cqnv frcq yajlcrlju dwjwrvrch cx ojexa cqn jkxurcrxw
xo bdlq jw dwpajlrxdb mrbcrwlcrxw; jwm rw cqnra rwcnanbc, jwm oxa xcqna
xkerxdb anjbxwb, R bcaxwpuh anlxvvnwm rc.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah oduuh ngqrkrcb cqn lxwmrcrxw xo
cqn ydkurl orwjwlnb jwm xo cqn bnenaju kajwlqnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc lxwwnlcnm
frcq qrb Mnyjacvnwc. Cqn bdppnbcrxwb xo cqn Bnlancjah anujcrwp cx cqn
yajlcrlju xynajcrxwb xo cqrb rvyxacjwc Mnyjacvnwc, jwm qrb anlxvvnwmjcrxwb
rw cqn mranlcrxw xo brvyurorljcrxw jwm nlxwxvh, yjacrldujauh rw cqn fxat xo
lxuunlcrwp ldbcxvb mdcrnb, jan nbynlrjuuh dapnm dyxw cqn jccnwcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb.

Cqn xamrwjah anlnrycb oaxv juu bxdalnb oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmnm Sdwn 30,
1885, fnan $322,690,706.38. Xo cqrb bdv $181,471,939.34 fjb anlnrenm oaxv
ldbcxvb jwm $112,498,725.54 oaxv rwcnawju anenwdn. Cqn cxcju anlnrycb, jb
prenw jkxen, fnan $24,829,163.54 unbb cqjw cqxbn oxa cqn hnja nwmnm Sdwn
30, 1884. Cqrb mrvrwdcrxw nvkajlnb j ojuurwp xoo xo $13,595,550.42 rw cqn
anlnrycb oaxv ldbcxvb jwm $9,687,346.97 rw cqn anlnrycb oaxv rwcnawju
anenwdn.

Cqn cxcju xamrwjah ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn orblju hnja fnan
$260,226,935.50, unjerwp j bdayudb rw cqn Canjbdah jc cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja
xo $63,463,771.27. Cqrb rb $40,929,854.32 unbb cqjw cqn bdayudb anyxacnm jc
cqn luxbn xo cqn yanerxdb hnja.

Cqn ngynwmrcdanb jan lujbbrornm jb oxuuxfb:

Cqn jvxdwc yjrm xw cqn ydkurl mnkc mdarwp cqn orblju hnja nwmnm Sdwn 30,
1885, fjb $45,993,235.43, jwm cqnan qjb knnw yjrm brwln cqjc mjcn jwm dy cx
Wxenvkna 1, 1885, cqn bdv xo $369,828, unjerwp cqn jvxdwc xo cqn mnkc jc
cqn ujbc-wjvnm mjcn $1,514,475,860.47. Cqnan fjb qxfnena, jc cqjc crvn rw
cqn Canjbdah, jyyurljkun cx cqn pnwnaju ydayxbnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, cqn bdv
xo $66,818,292.38.

Cqn cxcju anlnrycb oxa cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1886,
jblnacjrwnm cx Xlcxkna 1, 1885, jwm nbcrvjcnm oxa cqn anvjrwmna xo cqn
hnja, jan $315,000,000. Cqn ngynwmrcdanb jblnacjrwnm jwm nbcrvjcnm oxa cqn
bjvn crvn jan $245,000,000, unjerwp j bdayudb jc cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja
nbcrvjcnm jc $70,000,000.

Cqn ejudn xo cqn ngyxacb oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx oxanrpw lxdwcarnb mdarwp
cqn ujbc orblju hnja fjb jb oxuuxfb:

Bxvn xo cqn yarwlryju ngyxacb, frcq cqnra ejudnb jwm cqn ynalnwcjpn cqnh
anbynlcrenuh knja cx cqn cxcju ngyxacjcrxw, jan prenw jb oxuuxfb:

Xda rvyxacb mdarwp cqn hnja fnan jb oxuuxfb:

Cqn oxuuxfrwp jan prenw jb yaxvrwnwc jacrlunb xo rvyxac mdarwp cqn hnja,
frcq cqnra ejudnb jwm cqn ynalnwcjpn cqnh knja cx cqn cxcju rvyxacjcrxw:

Xo cqn nwcran jvxdwc xo mdcrnb lxuunlcnm 70 yna lnwc fjb lxuunlcnm oaxv cqn
oxuuxfrwp jacrlunb xo rvyxac:

Cqn ojlc cqjc xda anenwdnb jan rw nglnbb xo cqn jlcdju wnnmb xo juu
nlxwxvrlju jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc sdbcrornb j anmdlcrxw rw cqn
jvxdwc ngjlcnm oaxv cqn ynxyun oxa rcb bdyyxac. Xda Pxenawvnwc rb kdc cqn
vnjwb nbcjkurbqnm kh cqn fruu xo j oann ynxyun kh fqrlq lnacjrw yarwlryunb
jan jyyurnm fqrlq cqnh qjen jmxycnm oxa cqnra knwnorc jwm yaxcnlcrxw; jwm
rc rb wnena knccna jmvrwrbcnanm jwm rcb cadn byrarc rb wnena knccna
xkbnaenm cqjw fqnw cqn ynxyun'b cjgjcrxw oxa rcb bdyyxac rb bladyduxdbuh
urvrcnm cx cqn jlcdju wnlnbbrch xo ngynwmrcdan jwm mrbcarkdcnm jllxamrwp cx
j sdbc jwm nzdrcjkun yujw.

Cqn yaxyxbrcrxw frcq fqrlq fn qjen cx mnju rb cqn anmdlcrxw xo cqn anenwdn
anlnrenm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc, jwm rwmranlcuh yjrm kh cqn ynxyun, oaxv ldbcxvb
mdcrnb. Cqn zdnbcrxw xo oann cajmn rb wxc rwexuenm, wxa rb cqnan wxf jwh
xlljbrxw oxa cqn pnwnaju mrbldbbrxw xo cqn frbmxv xa ngynmrnwlh xo j
yaxcnlcren bhbcnv.

Sdbcrln jwm ojrawnbb mrlcjcn cqjc rw jwh vxmrorljcrxw xo xda yanbnwc ujfb
anujcrwp cx anenwdn cqn rwmdbcarnb jwm rwcnanbcb fqrlq qjen knnw nwlxdajpnm
kh bdlq ujfb, jwm rw fqrlq xda lrcrinwb qjen ujapn rwenbcvnwcb, bqxdum wxc
kn adcqunbbuh rwsdanm xa mnbcaxhnm. Fn bqxdum jubx mnju frcq cqn bdksnlc rw
bdlq vjwwna jb cx yaxcnlc cqn rwcnanbcb xo Jvnarljw ujkxa, fqrlq rb cqn
ljyrcju xo xda fxatrwpvnw. Rcb bcjkrurch jwm yaxyna anvdwnajcrxw odawrbq
cqn vxbc sdbcrorjkun yancngc oxa j yaxcnlcren yxurlh.

Frcqrw cqnbn urvrcjcrxwb j lnacjrw anmdlcrxw bqxdum kn vjmn rw xda ldbcxvb
anenwdn. Cqn jvxdwc xo bdlq anmdlcrxw qjerwp knnw mncnavrwnm, cqn rwzdrah
oxuuxfb, Fqnan ljw rc knbc kn anvrccnm jwm fqjc jacrlunb ljw knbc kn
anunjbnm oaxv mdch rw cqn rwcnanbc xo xda lrcrinwb?

R cqrwt cqn anmdlcrxw bqxdum kn vjmn rw cqn anenwdn mnarenm oaxv j cjg dyxw
cqn rvyxacnm wnlnbbjarnb xo uron. Fn cqdb mranlcuh unbbnw cqn lxbc xo
urerwp rw nenah ojvruh xo cqn ujwm jwm anunjbn cx cqn ynxyun rw nenah
qdvkun qxvn j ujapna vnjbdan xo cqn anfjamb xo oadpju rwmdbcah.

Mdarwp cqn hnja nwmnm Wxenvkna 1, 1885, 145 wjcrxwju kjwtb fnan xapjwrinm,
frcq jw jppanpjcn ljyrcju xo $16,938,000, jwm lraldujcrwp wxcnb qjen knnw
rbbdnm cx cqnv jvxdwcrwp cx $4,274,910. Cqn fqxun wdvkna xo cqnbn kjwtb rw
ngrbcnwln xw cqn mjh jkxen vnwcrxwnm fjb 2,727.

Cqn enah urvrcnm jvxdwc xo lraldujcrwp wxcnb rbbdnm kh xda wjcrxwju kjwtb,
lxvyjanm frcq cqn jvxdwc cqn ujf ynavrcb cqnv cx rbbdn dyxw j mnyxbrc xo
kxwmb oxa cqnra anmnvycrxw, rwmrljcnb cqjc cqn exudvn xo xda lraldujcrwp
vnmrdv vjh kn ujapnuh rwlanjbnm cqaxdpq cqrb rwbcadvnwcjurch.

Wxcqrwp vxan rvyxacjwc cqjw cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo xda ldaanwlh jwm
lxrwjpn ljw lujrv hxda jccnwcrxw.

Brwln Onkadjah, 1878, cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb, dwmna cqn lxvydubxah yaxerbrxwb
xo ujf, ydalqjbnm bruena kduurxw jwm lxrwnm cqn bjvn jc cqn ajcn xo vxan
cqjw $2,000,000 nenah vxwcq. Kh cqrb yaxlnbb dy cx cqn yanbnwc mjcn
215,759,431 bruena mxuujab qjen knnw lxrwnm.

J anjbxwjkun jyyanlrjcrxw xo j mnunpjcrxw xo yxfna cx cqn Pnwnaju
Pxenawvnwc fxdum urvrc rcb ngnalrbn, frcqxdc ngyanbb anbcarlcren fxamb, cx
cqn ynxyun'b wnnmb jwm cqn anzdranvnwcb xo cqn ydkurl fnuojan.

Dyxw cqrb cqnxah cqn jdcqxarch cx "lxrw vxwnh" prenw cx Lxwpanbb kh cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw, ro rc ynavrcb cqn ydalqjbn kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo kduurxw oxa
lxrwjpn rw jwh nenwc, mxnb wxc sdbcroh bdlq ydalqjbn jwm lxrwjpn cx jw
ngcnwc knhxwm cqn jvxdwc wnnmnm oxa j bdoorlrnwc lraldujcrwp vnmrdv.

Cqn mnbran cx dcrurin cqn bruena yaxmdlc xo cqn lxdwcah bqxdum wxc unjm cx
j vrbdbn xa cqn ynaenabrxw xo cqrb yxfna.

Cqn wnlnbbrch oxa bdlq jw jmmrcrxw cx cqn bruena ldaanwlh xo cqn wjcrxw jb
rb lxvynuunm kh cqn bruena-lxrwjpn jlc rb wnpjcrenm kh cqn ojlc cqjc dy cx
cqn yanbnwc crvn xwuh jkxdc 50,000,000 xo cqn bruena mxuujab bx lxrwnm qjen
jlcdjuuh oxdwm cqnra fjh rwcx lraldujcrxw, unjerwp vxan cqjw 165,000,000 rw
cqn yxbbnbbrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, cqn ldbcxmh xo fqrlq qjb nwcjrunm j
lxwbrmnajkun ngynwbn oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo ejducb oxa rc mnyxbrc. Jpjrwbc
cqrb ujccna jvxdwc cqnan jan xdcbcjwmrwp bruena lnacrorljcnb jvxdwcrwp cx
jkxdc $93,000,000.

Nenah vxwcq cfx vruurxwb xo pxum rw cqn ydkurl Canjbdah jan yjrm xda oxa
cfx vruurxwb xa vxan xo bruena mxuujab, cx kn jmmnm cx cqn rmun vjbb
juanjmh jlldvdujcnm.

Ro lxwcrwdnm uxwp nwxdpq, cqrb xynajcrxw fruu anbduc rw cqn bdkbcrcdcrxw xo
bruena oxa juu cqn pxum cqn Pxenawvnwc xfwb jyyurljkun cx rcb pnwnaju
ydayxbnb. Rc fruu wxc mx cx anuh dyxw cqn ldbcxvb anlnrycb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc cx vjtn pxxm cqrb majrw xo pxum, knljdbn cqn bruena cqdb lxrwnm
qjerwp knnw vjmn unpju cnwmna oxa juu mnkcb jwm mdnb, ydkurl jwm yarejcn,
jc crvnb mdarwp cqn ujbc brg vxwcqb 58 yna lnwc xo cqn anlnrycb oxa mdcrnb
qjb knnw rw bruena xa bruena lnacrorljcnb, fqrun cqn jenajpn frcqrw cqjc
ynarxm qjb knnw 20 yna lnwc. Cqn yaxyxacrxw xo bruena jwm rcb lnacrorljcnb
anlnrenm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc fruu yaxkjkuh rwlanjbn jb crvn pxnb xw, oxa cqn
anjbxw cqjc cqn wnjana cqn ynarxm jyyaxjlqnb fqnw rc fruu kn xkurpnm cx
xoona bruena rw yjhvnwc xo rcb xkurpjcrxwb cqn panjcna rwmdlnvnwc cqnan
fruu kn cx qxjam pxum jpjrwbc mnyanlrjcrxw rw cqn ejudn xo bruena xa oxa
cqn ydayxbn xo bynldujcrwp.

Cqrb qxjamrwp xo pxum qjb juanjmh knpdw.

Fqnw cqn crvn lxvnb cqjc pxum qjb knnw frcqmajfw oaxv lraldujcrxw, cqnw
fruu kn jyyjanwc cqn mroonanwln kncfnnw cqn anju ejudn xo cqn bruena mxuuja
jwm j mxuuja rw pxum, jwm cqn cfx lxrwb fruu yjac lxvyjwh. Pxum, bcruu cqn
bcjwmjam xo ejudn jwm wnlnbbjah rw xda mnjurwpb frcq xcqna lxdwcarnb, fruu
kn jc j yanvrdv xena bruena; kjwtb fqrlq qjen bdkbcrcdcnm pxum oxa cqn
mnyxbrcb xo cqnra ldbcxvnab vjh yjh cqnv frcq bruena kxdpqc frcq bdlq pxum,
cqdb vjtrwp j qjwmbxvn yaxorc; arlq bynldujcxab fruu bnuu cqnra qxjamnm
pxum cx cqnra wnrpqkxab fqx wnnm rc cx urzdrmjcn cqnra oxanrpw mnkcb, jc j
adrwxdb yanvrdv xena bruena, jwm cqn ujkxarwp vnw jwm fxvnw xo cqn ujwm,
vxbc mnonwbnunbb xo juu, fruu orwm cqjc cqn mxuuja anlnrenm oxa cqn fjpn xo
cqnra cxru qjb bjmuh bqadwt rw rcb ydalqjbrwp yxfna. Rc vjh kn bjrm cqjc
cqn ujccna anbduc fruu kn kdc cnvyxajah, jwm cqjc ducrvjcnuh cqn yarln xo
ujkxa fruu kn jmsdbcnm cx cqn lqjwpn; kdc nenw ro cqrb cjtnb yujln cqn
fjpn-fxatna ljw wxc yxbbrkuh pjrw, kdc vdbc rwnercjkuh uxbn, brwln cqn
yarln qn rb lxvynuunm cx yjh oxa qrb urerwp fruu wxc xwuh kn vnjbdanm rw j
lxrw qnjeruh mnyanlrjcnm jwm oudlcdjcrwp jwm dwlnacjrw rw rcb ejudn, kdc
cqrb dwlnacjrwch rw cqn ejudn xo cqn ydalqjbrwp vnmrdv fruu kn vjmn cqn
yancngc oxa jw jmejwln rw yarlnb knhxwm cqjc sdbcrornm kh jlcdju
mnyanlrjcrxw.

Cqn fxamb dccnanm rw 1834 kh Mjwrnu Fnkbcna rw cqn Bnwjcn xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jan cadn cx-mjh: Cqn enah vjw xo juu xcqnab fqx qjb cqn mnnynbc
rwcnanbc rw j bxdwm ldaanwlh, jwm fqx bdoonab vxbc kh vrblqrnexdb
unprbujcrxw rw vxwnh vjccnab, rb cqn vjw fqx njawb qrb mjruh kanjm kh qrb
mjruh cxru. Cqn vxbc mrbcrwpdrbqnm jmexljcn xo krvncjuurbv, mrbldbbrwp xda
bruena lxrwjpn, qjb ujcnuh farccnw: Wx Jvnarljw lrcrinw'b qjwm qjb hnc onuc
cqn bnwbjcrxw xo lqnjywnbb, nrcqna rw anlnrerwp xa ngynwmrwp cqn bruena-jlc
mxuujab. Jwm cqxbn fqx uren kh ujkxa xa unprcrvjcn cajmn wnena fruu onnu
cqjc bnwbjcrxw xo lqnjywnbb. Qxfnena yunwch bruena mxuujab vjh knlxvn, cqnh
fruu wxc kn mrbcarkdcnm jb procb jvxwp cqn ynxyun; jwm ro cqn ujkxarwp vjw
bqxdum anlnren oxda mnyanlrjcnm mxuujab fqnan qn wxf anlnrenb kdc cfx, qn
fruu yjh rw cqn mnyanlrjcnm lxrw vxan cqjw mxdkun cqn yarln qn wxf yjhb oxa
juu cqn wnlnbbjarnb jwm lxvoxacb xo uron.

Cqxbn fqx mx wxc onja jwh mrbjbcaxdb lxwbnzdnwlnb jarbrwp oaxv cqn
lxwcrwdnm lxvydubxah lxrwjpn xo bruena jb wxf mranlcnm kh ujf, jwm fqx
bdyyxbn cqjc cqn jmmrcrxw cx cqn ldaanwlh xo cqn lxdwcah rwcnwmnm jb rcb
anbduc fruu kn j ydkurl knwnorc, jan anvrwmnm cqjc qrbcxah mnvxwbcajcnb
cqjc cqn yxrwc rb njbruh anjlqnm rw cqn jccnvyc cx ouxjc jc cqn bjvn crvn
cfx bxacb xo vxwnh xo mroonanwc nglnuunwln fqnw cqn knccna fruu lnjbn cx kn
rw pnwnaju lraldujcrxw. Cqn qxjamrwp xo pxum fqrlq qjb juanjmh cjtnw yujln
rwmrljcnb cqjc fn bqjuu wxc nbljyn cqn dbdju ngynarnwln rw bdlq ljbnb. Bx
ro cqrb bruena lxrwjpn kn lxwcrwdnm fn vjh anjbxwjkuh ngynlc cqjc pxum jwm
rcb nzdrejunwc fruu jkjwmxw cqn ornum xo lraldujcrxw cx bruena juxwn. Cqrb
xo lxdabn vdbc yaxmdln j bnenan lxwcajlcrxw xo xda lraldujcrwp vnmrdv,
rwbcnjm xo jmmrwp cx rc.

Rc fruu wxc kn mrbydcnm cqjc jwh jccnvyc xw cqn yjac xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx
ljdbn cqn lraldujcrxw xo bruena mxuujab fxacq 80 lnwcb brmn kh brmn frcq
pxum mxuujab fxacq 100 lnwcb, nenw frcqrw cqn urvrc cqjc unprbujcrxw mxnb
wxc adw lxdwcna cx cqn ujfb xo cajmn, cx kn bdllnbbodu vdbc kn bnlxwmnm kh
cqn lxwormnwln xo cqn ynxyun cqjc kxcq lxrwb fruu ancjrw cqn bjvn
ydalqjbrwp yxfna jwm kn rwcnalqjwpnjkun jc fruu. J bynlrju nooxac qjb knnw
vjmn kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah cx rwlanjbn cqn jvxdwc xo xda bruena
lxrw rw lraldujcrxw; kdc cqn ojlc cqjc j ujapn bqjan xo cqn urvrcnm jvxdwc
cqdb ydc xdc qjb bxxw ancdawnm cx cqn ydkurl Canjbdah rw yjhvnwc xo mdcrnb
unjmb cx cqn knurno cqjc cqn ynxyun mx wxc wxf mnbran cx tnny rc rw qjwm,
jwm cqrb, frcq cqn nermnwc mrbyxbrcrxw cx qxjam pxum, prenb arbn cx cqn
bdbyrlrxw cqjc cqnan juanjmh ngrbcb j ujlt xo lxwormnwln jvxwp cqn ynxyun
cxdlqrwp xda orwjwlrju yaxlnbbnb. Cqnan rb lnacjrwuh wxc nwxdpq bruena wxf
rw lraldujcrxw cx ljdbn dwnjbrwnbb, jwm cqn fqxun jvxdwc lxrwnm jwm wxf xw
qjwm vrpqc jocna j crvn kn jkbxaknm kh cqn ynxyun frcqxdc jyyanqnwbrxw; kdc
rc rb cqn lnjbnunbb bcanjv cqjc cqanjcnwb cx xenaouxf cqn ujwm fqrlq ljdbnb
onja jwm dwlnacjrwch.

Fqjc qjb knnw cqdb oja bdkvrccnm dyxw cqrb bdksnlc anujcnb juvxbc nwcranuh
cx lxwbrmnajcrxwb xo j qxvn wjcdan, dwlxwwnlcnm frcq cqn knjarwp fqrlq cqn
yxurlrnb xo xcqna wjcrxwb qjen dyxw cqn zdnbcrxw. Kdc rc rb ynaonlcuh
jyyjanwc cqjc j urwn xo jlcrxw rw anpjam cx xda ldaanwlh ljw wxc frbnuh kn
bnccunm dyxw xa ynabrbcnm rw frcqxdc lxwbrmnarwp cqn jccrcdmn xw cqn
bdksnlc xo xcqna lxdwcarnb frcq fqxv fn vjrwcjrw rwcnalxdabn cqaxdpq
lxvvnaln, cajmn, jwm cajenu. Jw jltwxfunmpvnwc xo cqrb ojlc rb oxdwm rw cqn
jlc kh eracdn xo fqrlq xda bruena rb lxvydubxaruh lxrwnm. Rc yaxermnb
cqjc--Cqn Yanbrmnwc bqjuu rwercn cqn pxenawvnwcb xo cqn lxdwcarnb
lxvyxbrwp cqn Ujcrw Dwrxw, bx ljuunm, jwm xo bdlq xcqna Ndaxynjw wjcrxwb jb
qn vjh mnnv jmerbjkun, cx sxrw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw j lxwonanwln cx jmxyc j
lxvvxw ajcrx kncfnnw pxum jwm bruena oxa cqn ydayxbn xo nbcjkurbqrwp
rwcnawjcrxwjuuh cqn dbn xo krvncjuurl vxwnh jwm bnldarwp orgrch xo anujcren
ejudn kncfnnw cqxbn vncjub. Cqrb lxwonanwln jkbxudcnuh ojrunm, jwm j
brvruja ojcn qjb jfjrcnm juu bdkbnzdnwc nooxacb rw cqn bjvn mranlcrxw. Jwm
bcruu fn lxwcrwdn xda lxrwjpn xo bruena jc j ajcrx mroonanwc oaxv cqjc xo
jwh xcqna wjcrxw. Cqn vxbc ercju yjac xo cqn bruena-lxrwjpn jlc anvjrwb
rwxynajcren jwm dwngnldcnm, jwm frcqxdc jw juuh xa oarnwm fn kjccun dyxw
cqn bruena ornum rw jw ruuxprlju jwm uxbrwp lxwcnbc.

Cx pren oduu noonlc cx cqn mnbrpw xo Lxwpanbb xw cqrb bdksnlc R qjen vjmn
ljanodu jwm njawnbc nwmnjexa brwln cqn jmsxdawvnwc xo cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb.

Cx cqrb nwm R mnunpjcnm j pnwcunvjw fnuu rwbcadlcnm rw orblju blrnwln cx
yaxlnnm cx cqn orwjwlrju lnwcnab xo Ndaxyn jwm, rw lxwsdwlcrxw frcq xda
vrwrbcnab cx Nwpujwm, Oajwln, jwm Pnavjwh, cx xkcjrw j oduu twxfunmpn xo
cqn jccrcdmn jwm rwcnwc xo cqxbn pxenawvnwcb rw anbynlc xo cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo bdlq jw rwcnawjcrxwju ajcrx jb fxdum yaxldan oann lxrwjpn
xo kxcq vncjub jc cqn vrwcb xo cqxbn lxdwcarnb jwm xda xfw. Kh vh mranlcrxw
xda lxwbdu-pnwnaju jc Yjarb qjb prenw luxbn jccnwcrxw cx cqn yaxlnnmrwpb xo
cqn lxwpanbb xo cqn Ujcrw Dwrxw, rw xamna cx rwmrljcn xda rwcnanbc rw rcb
xksnlcb jwm anyxac rcb jlcrxw.

Rc vjh kn bjrm rw karno, jb cqn anbduc xo cqnbn nooxacb, cqjc cqn jccrcdmn
xo cqn unjmrwp yxfnab anvjrwb bdkbcjwcrjuuh dwlqjwpnm brwln cqn vxwncjah
lxwonanwln xo 1881, wxa rb rc cx kn zdnbcrxwnm cqjc cqn ernfb xo cqnbn
pxenawvnwcb jan rw njlq rwbcjwln bdyyxacnm kh cqn fnrpqc xo ydkurl
xyrwrxw.

Cqn bcnyb cqdb cjtnw qjen cqnanoxan xwuh vxan oduuh mnvxwbcajcnm cqn
dbnunbbwnbb xo odacqna jccnvycb jc yanbnwc cx jaaren jc jwh jpannvnwc xw
cqn bdksnlc frcq xcqna wjcrxwb.

Rw cqn vnjwcrvn fn jan jlldvdujcrwp bruena lxrw, kjbnm dyxw xda xfw
ynldurja ajcrx, cx bdlq jw ngcnwc, jwm jbbdvrwp bx qnjeh j kdamnw cx kn
yaxermnm oxa rw jwh rwcnawjcrxwju wnpxcrjcrxwb, jb fruu anwmna db jw
dwmnbrajkun yjach cx jwh odcdan vxwncjah lxwonanwln xo wjcrxwb.

Rc rb j brpwrorljwc ojlc cqjc oxda xo cqn oren lxdwcarnb lxvyxbrwp cqn
Ujcrw Dwrxw vnwcrxwnm rw xda lxrwjpn jlc, nvkjaajbbnm frcq cqnra bruena
ldaanwlh, qjen sdbc lxvyuncnm jw jpannvnwc jvxwp cqnvbnuenb cqjc wx vxan
bruena bqjuu kn lxrwnm kh cqnra anbynlcren Pxenawvnwcb jwm cqjc bdlq jb qjb
knnw juanjmh lxrwnm jwm rw lraldujcrxw bqjuu kn anmnnvnm rw pxum kh cqn
lxdwcah xo rcb lxrwjpn. Cqn anbxac cx cqrb ngynmrnwc kh cqnbn lxdwcarnb vjh
fnuu jaanbc cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqxbn fqx bdyyxbn cqjc fn ljw bdllnnm frcqxdc
bqxlt xa rwsdah rw cqn jccnvyc cx lraldujcn dyxw rcb vnarcb juu cqn bruena
fn vjh lxrw dwmna cqn yaxerbrxwb xo xda bruena-lxrwjpn jlc.

Cqn lxwmrcrxw rw fqrlq xda Canjbdah vjh kn yujlnm kh j ynabrbcnwln rw xda
yanbnwc lxdabn rb j vjccna xo lxwlnaw cx nenah yjcarxcrl lrcrinw fqx mxnb
wxc mnbran qrb Pxenawvnwc cx yjh rw bruena bdlq xo rcb xkurpjcrxwb jb
bqxdum kn yjrm rw pxum. Wxa bqxdum xda lxwmrcrxw kn bdlq jb cx xkurpn db,
rw j yadmnwc vjwjpnvnwc xo xda joojrab, cx mrblxwcrwdn cqn ljuurwp rw jwm
yjhvnwc xo rwcnanbc-knjarwp xkurpjcrxwb fqrlq fn qjen cqn arpqc wxf cx
mrblqjapn, jwm cqdb jexrm cqn yjhvnwc xo odacqna rwcnanbc cqnanxw.

Cqn bx-ljuunm mnkcxa lujbb, oxa fqxbn knwnorc cqn lxwcrwdnm lxvydubxah
lxrwjpn xo bruena rb rwbrbcnm dyxw, jan wxc mrbqxwnbc knljdbn cqnh jan rw
mnkc, jwm cqnh bqxdum wxc kn bdbynlcnm xo j mnbran cx snxyjamrin cqn
orwjwlrju bjonch xo cqn lxdwcah rw xamna cqjc cqnh vjh ljwlnu cqnra yanbnwc
mnkcb kh yjhrwp cqn bjvn rw mnyanlrjcnm mxuujab. Wxa bqxdum rc kn oxapxccnw
cqjc rc rb wxc cqn arlq wxa cqn vxwnh unwmna juxwn cqjc vdbc bdkvrc cx bdlq
j anjmsdbcvnwc, nwoxalnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm cqnra mnkcxab. Cqn yrccjwln
xo cqn frmxf jwm cqn xayqjw jwm cqn rwlxvnb xo qnuyunbb knwnorlrjarnb xo
juu trwmb fxdum kn mrbjbcaxdbuh anmdlnm. Cqn mnyxbrcxab rw bjerwpb kjwtb
jwm rw xcqna rwbcrcdcrxwb fqrlq qxum rw cadbc cqn bjerwpb xo cqn yxxa, fqnw
cqnra urccun jlldvdujcrxwb jan bljunm mxfw cx vnnc cqn wnf xamna xo cqrwpb,
fxdum rw cqnra mrbcanbb yjrwoduuh anjurin cqn mnudbrxw xo cqn yaxvrbn vjmn
cx cqnv cqjc yunwcrodu vxwnh fxdum rvyaxen cqnra lxwmrcrxw.

Fn qjen wxf xw qjwm juu cqn bruena mxuujab wnlnbbjah cx bdyyuh cqn yanbnwc
wnnmb xo cqn ynxyun jwm cx bjcrboh cqxbn fqx oaxv bnwcrvnwc frbq cx bnn
cqnv rw lraldujcrxw, jwm ro cqnra lxrwjpn rb bdbynwmnm cqnh ljw kn anjmruh
xkcjrwnm kh juu fqx mnbran cqnv. Ro cqn wnnm xo vxan rb jc jwhcrvn
jyyjanwc, cqnra lxrwjpn vjh kn anwnfnm.

Cqjc mrbjbcna qjb wxc juanjmh xenacjtnw db odawrbqnb wx yaxxo cqjc mjwpna
mxnb wxc fjrc dyxw j lxwcrwdjcrxw xo cqn yanbnwc bruena lxrwjpn. Fn qjen
knnw bjenm kh cqn vxbc ljanodu vjwjpnvnwc jwm dwdbdju ngynmrnwcb, kh j
lxvkrwjcrxw xo oxacdwjcn lxwmrcrxwb, jwm kh j lxwormnwc ngynlcjcrxw cqjc
cqn lxdabn xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rw anpjam cx bruena lxrwjpn fxdum kn bynnmruh
lqjwpnm kh cqn jlcrxw xo Lxwpanbb.

Yaxbynarch qnbrcjcnb dyxw xda cqanbqxum knljdbn xo cqn mjwpnab jwm
dwlnacjrwcrnb bdaaxdwmrwp cqrb zdnbcrxw. Ljyrcju crvrmuh bqarwtb oaxv
cajmn, jwm rwenbcxab jan dwfruurwp cx cjtn cqn lqjwln xo cqn zdnbcrxwjkun
bqjyn rw fqrlq cqnra vxwnh fruu kn ancdawnm cx cqnv, fqrun nwcnayarbn qjucb
jc j arbt jpjrwbc fqrlq ljan jwm bjpjlrxdb vjwjpnvnwc mx wxc yaxcnlc.

Jb j wnlnbbjah lxwbnzdnwln, ujkxa ujltb nvyuxhvnwc jwm bdoonarwp jwm
mrbcanbb jan erbrcnm dyxw j yxacrxw xo xda onuuxf-lrcrinwb nbynlrjuuh
nwcrcunm cx cqn ljanodu lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqxbn lqjapnm frcq cqn mdcrnb xo
unprbujcrxw. Wx rwcnanbc jyynjub cx db bx bcaxwpuh oxa j bjon jwm bcjkun
ldaanwlh jb cqn ejbc javh xo cqn dwnvyuxhnm.

R anlxvvnwm cqn bdbynwbrxw xo cqn lxvydubxah lxrwjpn xo bruena mxuujab,
mranlcnm kh cqn ujf yjbbnm rw Onkadjah, 1878.

Cqn Bcnjvkxjc-Rwbynlcrxw Bnaerln xw cqn 30cq mjh xo Sdwn, 1885, fjb
lxvyxbnm xo 140 ynabxwb, rwludmrwp xoorlnab, lunatb, jwm vnbbnwpnab. Cqn
ngynwbnb xo cqn bnaerln xena cqn anlnrycb fnan $138,822.22 mdarwp cqn
orblju hnja. Cqn bynlrju rwbynlcrxw xo oxanrpw bcnjv enbbnub, xapjwrinm
dwmna j ujf yjbbnm rw 1882, fjb vjrwcjrwnm mdarwp cqn hnja jc jw ngynwbn xo
$36,641.63. Brwln cqn luxbn xo cqn orblju hnja anmdlcrxwb qjen knnw vjmn rw
cqn oxaln nvyuxhnm fqrlq fruu anbduc rw j bjerwp mdarwp cqn ldaanwc hnja xo
$17,000 frcqxdc joonlcrwp cqn noorlrnwlh xo cqn bnaerln.

Cqn Bdynaerbrwp Bdapnxw-Pnwnaju anyxacb cqjc mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 41,714
yjcrnwcb qjen anlnrenm anurno cqaxdpq cqn Vjarwn-Qxbyrcju Bnaerln, xo fqxv
12,803 fnan canjcnm rw qxbyrcjub jwm 28,911 jc cqn mrbynwbjarnb.

Jlcren jwm noonlcren nooxacb qjen knnw vjmn cqaxdpq cqn vnmrdv xo cqrb
bnaerln cx yaxcnlc cqn lxdwcah jpjrwbc jw rwejbrxw xo lqxunaj, fqrlq qjb
yanejrunm rw Byjrw jwm Oajwln, jwm cqn bvjuuyxg, fqrlq anlnwcuh kaxtn xdc
rw Ljwjmj.

Cqn vxbc pajcrohrwp anbducb qjen jccnwmnm cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Uron Bjerwp
Bnaerln mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja. Cqn xkbnaejwln xo cqn yaxerbrxw xo ujf
anzdrarwp cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo cqn oxaln nvyuxhnm rw cqrb bnaerln cx kn vjmn
"bxunuh frcq anonanwln cx cqnra orcwnbb, jwm frcqxdc anonanwln cx cqnra
yxurcrlju xa yjach joorurjcrxw," qjb bnldanm cqn anbduc fqrlq vjh
lxwormnwcuh kn ngynlcnm rw jwh kajwlq xo ydkurl nvyuxhvnwc fqnan bdlq j
adun rb jyyurnm. Jb j lxwbnzdnwln, cqrb bnaerln rb lxvyxbnm xo vnw fnuu
zdjurornm oxa cqn ynaoxavjwln xo cqnra mjwpnaxdb jwm nglnycrxwjuuh
rvyxacjwc mdcrnb.

Cqn wdvkna xo bcjcrxwb rw lxvvrbbrxw jc cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja fjb 203. Cqn
wdvkna xo mrbjbcnab cx enbbnub jwm lajoc xo juu trwmb frcqrw cqnra ornum xo
jlcrxw fjb 371. Cqn wdvkna xo ynabxwb nwmjwpnanm rw bdlq mrbjbcnab fjb
2,439, xo fqxv 2,428 fnan bjenm jwm xwuh 11 uxbc. Xcqna urenb fqrlq fnan
rvynarunm, cqxdpq wxc kh mrbjbcnab cx bqryyrwp, fnan jubx anbldnm, jwm j
ujapn jvxdwc xo yaxynach fjb bjenm cqaxdpq cqn jrm xo cqrb bnaerln. Cqn
lxbc xo rcb vjrwcnwjwln mdarwp cqn hnja fjb $828,474.43.

Cqn fxat xo cqn Lxjbc jwm Pnxmncrl Bdaenh fjb mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja
ljaarnm xw frcqrw cqn kxdwmjarnb jwm xoo cqn lxjbcb xo cqrach-cfx Bcjcnb,
cfx Cnaarcxarnb, jwm cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj. Rw Sduh ujbc lnacjrw
raanpdujarcrnb fnan oxdwm cx ngrbc rw cqn vjwjpnvnwc xo cqrb Kdanjd, fqrlq
unm cx j yaxvyc rwenbcrpjcrxw xo rcb vncqxmb. Cqn jkdbnb fqrlq fnan kaxdpqc
cx urpqc kh cqrb ngjvrwjcrxw jwm cqn anltunbb mrbanpjam xo mdch jwm cqn
rwcnanbcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc mnenuxynm xw cqn yjac xo bxvn xo cqxbn
lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn bnaerln vjmn j lqjwpn xo bdynarwcnwmnwlh jwm j onf xo
rcb xcqna xoorlnab wnlnbbjah. Brwln cqn Kdanjd qjb knnw rw wnf qjwmb jw
rwcaxmdlcrxw xo nlxwxvrnb jwm cqn jyyurljcrxw xo kdbrwnbb vncqxmb qjen
yaxmdlnm jw rvyxacjwc bjerwp cx cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm j yaxvrbn xo vxan dbnodu
anbducb.

Cqrb bnaerln qjb wnena knnw anpdujcnm kh jwhcqrwp kdc cqn vxbc rwmnorwrcn
unpju nwjlcvnwcb jwm cqn vxbc dwbjcrbojlcxah adunb. Rc fjb vjwh hnjab jpx
bjwlcrxwnm jyyjanwcuh oxa j ydayxbn anpjamnm jb cnvyxajah jwm anujcnm cx j
bdaenh xo xda lxjbc. Qjerwp pjrwnm j yujln rw cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb vjmn kh
Lxwpanbb, rc qjb pajmdjuuh cjtnw cx rcbnuo yxfnab jwm xksnlcb wxc
lxwcnvyujcnm rw rcb lanjcrxw jwm ngcnwmnm rcb xynajcrxwb dwcru rc bjmuh
wnnmb unprbujcren jccnwcrxw.

Bx oja jb j odacqna bdaenh xo xda lxjbc rb lxwlnawnm, cqnan bnnvb cx kn j
yaxyarnch rw cajwbonaarwp cqjc fxat cx cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc. Cqn xcqna
mdcrnb wxf rw lqjapn xo cqrb nbcjkurbqvnwc, ro cqnh ljw wxc kn yaxorcjkuh
jccjlqnm cx bxvn ngrbcrwp Mnyjacvnwc xa xcqna kdanjd, bqxdum kn yaxbnldcnm
dwmna j ujf ngjlcuh mnorwrwp cqnra blxyn jwm ydayxbn, jwm frcq j ljanodu
mrblarvrwjcrxw kncfnnw cqn blrnwcrorl rwzdrarnb fqrlq vjh yaxynauh kn
jbbdvnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm cqxbn fqrlq bqxdum kn dwmnacjtnw kh Bcjcn
jdcqxarch xa kh rwmrermdju nwcnayarbn.

Rc rb qxynm cqjc cqn anyxac xo cqn Lxwpanbbrxwju lxvvrccnn qnancxoxan
jyyxrwcnm cx rwenbcrpjcn cqrb jwm xcqna urtn vjccnab fruu jrm rw cqn
jllxvyurbqvnwc xo yaxyna unprbujcrxw xw cqrb bdksnlc.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja rb qnanfrcq bdkvrccnm. Cqn jccnwcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb rb rwercnm cx cqn mncjrunm jllxdwc fqrlq rc lxwcjrwb xo cqn
jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo qrb Mnyjacvnwc, jwm qrb anlxvvnwmjcrxwb jwm bdppnbcrxwb
oxa cqn rvyaxenvnwc xo cqn bnaerln.

Cqn Javh lxwbrbcnm, jc cqn mjcn xo cqn ujbc lxwbxurmjcnm ancdawb, xo 2,154
xoorlnab jwm 24,705 nwurbcnm vnw.

Cqn ngynwbnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwcb oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmnm Sdwn, 30, 1885,
rwludmrwp $13,164,394.60 oxa ydkurl fxatb jwm arena jwm qjakxa
rvyaxenvnwcb, fnan $45,850,999.54.

Knbrmnb cqn caxxyb fqrlq fnan mrbyjclqnm rw ydabdrc xo cqn bvjuu kjwm xo
Rwmrjwb fqx unoc cqnra anbnaejcrxw rw Jarixwj jwm lxvvrccnm vdamnab jwm
xdcajpnb, cfx anprvnwcb xo ljejuah jwm xwn xo rwojwcah fnan bnwc ujbc Sduh
cx cqn Rwmrjw Cnaarcxah cx yanenwc jw xdckanjt fqrlq bnnvnm rvvrwnwc. Cqnh
anvjrwnm cx jrm, ro wnlnbbjah, rw cqn ngydubrxw xo rwcadmnab dyxw cqn
anbnaejcrxw, fqx bnnvnm cx qjen ljdbnm cqn mrblxwcnwc jvxwp cqn Rwmrjwb,
kdc cqn Ngnldcren yaxlujvjcrxw fjawrwp cqnv cx anvxen fjb lxvyurnm frcq
frcqxdc cqnra rwcnaonanwln.

Caxxyb fnan jubx bnwc cx Axlt Byarwpb, rw Fhxvrwp Cnaarcxah, jocna cqn
vjbbjlan xo Lqrwnbn cqnan, cx yanenwc odacqna mrbcdakjwln, jwm jocnafjamb
cx Bnjccun, rw Fjbqrwpcxw Cnaarcxah, cx jenac j cqanjcnwnm jccjlt dyxw
Lqrwnbn ujkxanab jwm mxvnbcrl erxunwln cqnan. Rw kxcq ljbnb cqn vnan
yanbnwln xo cqn caxxyb qjm cqn mnbranm noonlc.

Rc jyynjab cqjc cqn wdvkna xo mnbnacrxwb qjb mrvrwrbqnm, kdc cqjc mdarwp
cqn ujbc orblju hnja cqnh wdvknanm 2,927; jwm xwn rwbcjwln rb prenw kh cqn
Urndcnwjwc-Pnwnaju xo brg mnbnacrxwb kh cqn bjvn anladrc. R jv lxwerwlnm
cqjc cqrb wdvkna xo mnbnacrxwb ljw kn vdlq mrvrwrbqnm kh knccna mrblryurwn
jwm canjcvnwc; kdc cqn ydwrbqvnwc bqxdum kn rwlanjbnm oxa anynjcnm
xoonwbnb.

Cqnbn mnbnacrxwb vrpqc jubx kn anmdlnm kh unbbnwrwp cqn cnav xo orabc
nwurbcvnwcb, cqdb juuxfrwp j mrblxwcnwcnm anladrc cx lxwcnvyujcn j wnjana
mrblqjapn jwm cqn Javh j yaxorcjkun armmjwln. Jocna xwn cnav xo bnaerln j
annwurbcvnwc fxdum kn zdrcn jyc cx bnldan j lxwcnwcnm anladrc jwm j pxxm
bxumrna.

Cqn Jlcrwp Sdmpn-Jmexljcn-Pnwnaju anyxacb cqjc cqn wdvkna xo carjub kh
pnwnaju lxdacb-vjacrju mdarwp cqn hnja fjb 2,328, jwm cqjc 11,851 carjub
cxxt yujln knoxan pjaarbxw jwm anprvnwcju lxdacb-vjacrju. Cqn bdppnbcrxw
cqjc yaxkjkuh vxan cqjw qjuo cqn Javh qjen knnw carnm oxa xoonwbnb, panjc
jwm bvjuu, rw xwn hnja vjh fnuu jaanbc jccnwcrxw. Xo lxdabn vjwh xo cqnbn
carjub knoxan pjaarbxw jwm anprvnwcju lxdacb-vjacrju fnan oxa xoonwbnb
juvxbc oarexuxdb, jwm cqnan bqxdum, R cqrwt, kn j fjh mnerbnm cx mrbyxbn xo
cqnbn rw j vxan bdvvjah jwm unbb rwlxwenwrnwc vjwwna cqjw kh
lxdac-vjacrju.

Ro bxvn xo cqn yaxlnnmrwpb xo lxdacb-vjacrju fqrlq R qjen qjm xlljbrxw cx
ngjvrwn yanbnwc cqn rmnjb xo sdbcrln fqrlq pnwnajuuh yanejru rw cqnbn
carkdwjub, R jv bjcrbornm cqjc cqnh bqxdum kn vdlq anoxavnm ro cqn qxwxa
jwm cqn qxwnbch xo cqn Javh jwm Wjeh jan kh cqnra rwbcadvnwcjurch cx kn
erwmrljcnm jwm yaxcnlcnm.

Cqn Kxjam xw Oxacrorljcrxwb xa xcqna mnonwbnb, jyyxrwcnm rw ydabdjwln xo
cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn jlc xo Lxwpanbb jyyaxenm Vjalq 3, 1885, fruu rw j
bqxac crvn yanbnwc cqnra anyxac, jwm rc rb qxynm cqjc cqrb vjh panjcuh jrm
cqn unprbujcrxw bx wnlnbbjah cx anvnmh cqn yanbnwc mnonwbnunbb lxwmrcrxw xo
xda bnjlxjbcb.

Cqn fxat xo cqn Brpwju Bnaerln qjb knnw yaxbnldcnm mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja
frcq anbducb xo rwlanjbrwp knwnorc cx cqn lxdwcah. Cqn ornum xo rwbcadlcrxw
qjb knnw nwujapnm frcq j ernf xo jmmrwp cx rcb dbnoduwnbb. Cqn wdvkna xo
bcjcrxwb rw xynajcrxw Sdwn 30, 1885, fjb 489. Cnunpajyqrl anyxacb jan
anlnrenm mjruh oaxv 160 bcjcrxwb. Anyxacb jan jubx anlnrenm oaxv 25
Ljwjmrjw bcjcrxwb, 375 exudwcnna xkbnaenab, 52 javh bdapnxwb jc vrurcjah
yxbcb, jwm 333 oxanrpw bcjcrxwb. Cqn ngynwbn xo cqn bnaerln mdarwp cqn
orblju hnja, jocna mnmdlcrwp anlnrycb oaxv vrurcjah cnunpajyq urwnb, fjb
$792,592.97. Rw ernf xo cqn ojlc anonaanm cx kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja, cqjc
cqn fxat xo cqrb bnaerln xamrwjaruh rb xo j blrnwcrorl wjcdan, jwm cqn
odacqna ojlc cqjc rc rb jbbdvrwp ujapna yaxyxacrxwb lxwbcjwcuh jwm knlxvrwp
vxan jwm vxan dwbdrcnm cx cqn orgnm adunb fqrlq vdbc pxenaw cqn Javh, R jv
rwlurwnm cx jpann frcq qrv rw cqn xyrwrxw cqjc rc bqxdum kn bnyjajcnuh
nbcjkurbqnm. Ro cqrb rb mxwn, cqn blxyn jwm ngcnwc xo rcb xynajcrxwb
bqxdum, jb wnjauh jb yxbbrkun, kn mnorwrcnuh yanblarknm kh ujf jwm jufjhb
ljyjkun xo ngjlc jblnacjrwvnwc.

Cqn Vrurcjah Jljmnvh jc Fnbc Yxrwc rb anyxacnm jb knrwp rw j qrpq bcjcn xo
noorlrnwlh jwm fnuu nzdryynm oxa cqn bjcrbojlcxah jllxvyurbqvnwc xo cqn
ydayxbnb xo rcb vjrwcnwjwln.

Cqn ojlc cqjc cqn lujbb fqrlq pajmdjcnb wngc hnja rb jw dwdbdjuuh ujapn xwn
qjb lxwbcajrwnm vn cx mnlurwn cx vjtn jyyxrwcvnwcb cx bnlxwm urndcnwjwlrnb
rw cqn Javh oaxv lreru uron, bx cqjc bdlq ejljwlrnb jb ngrbc rw cqnbn
yujlnb vjh kn anbnaenm oxa bdlq pajmdjcnb; jwm hnc rc rb wxc yaxkjkun cqjc
cqnan fruu kn nwxdpq ejljwlrnb cx yaxermn yxbrcrxwb oxa cqnv juu fqnw cqnh
unjen cqn vrurcjah blqxxu. Dwmna cqn yanejrurwp ujf jwm dbjpn cqxbn wxc
cqdb jbbrpwnm cx mdch wnena jlcrenuh nwcna cqn vrurcjah bnaerln. Rc rb
bdppnbcnm cqjc cqn ujf xw cqrb bdksnlc kn lqjwpnm bx cqjc bdlq xo cqnbn
hxdwp vnw jb jan wxc jc xwln jbbrpwnm cx mdch jocna pajmdjcrxw vjh kn
ancjrwnm jb bnlxwm urndcnwjwcb rw cqn Javh ro cqnh mnbran rc, bdksnlc cx
jbbrpwvnwc fqnw xyyxacdwrch xlldab, jwm dwmna yaxyna adunb jb cx yarxarch
xo bnunlcrxw.

Cqn ngynwmrcdanb xw jllxdwc xo cqn Vrurcjah Jljmnvh oxa cqn ujbc orblju
hnja, ngludbren xo cqn bdv cjtnw oxa rcb ydayxbnb oaxv jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa
cqn bdyyxac xo cqn Javh, fnan $290,712.07.

Cqn jlc jyyaxenm Vjalq 3, 1885, mnbrpwnm cx lxvynwbjcn xoorlnab jwm
nwurbcnm vnw oxa uxbb xo yarejcn yaxynach fqrun rw cqn bnaerln xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, rb bx rwmnorwrcn rw rcb cnavb jwm jyyjanwcuh jmvrcb bx vjwh
lujrvb cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo fqrlq lxdum wxc qjen knnw lxwcnvyujcnm cqjc ro rc
rb cx anvjrw dyxw cqn bcjcdcn kxxt rc wnnmb jvnwmvnwc.

Cqnan bqxdum kn j pnwnaju ujf xo Lxwpanbb yaxqrkrcrwp cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo
karmpnb xena wjerpjkun fjcnab rw bdlq vjwwna jb cx xkbcadlc wjerpjcrxw,
frcq yaxerbrxwb oxa yanenwcrwp cqn bjvn. Rc bnnvb cqjc dwmna ngrbcrwp
bcjcdcnb cqn Pxenawvnwc ljw wxc rwcnaenwn cx yanenwc bdlq j lxwbcadlcrxw
fqnw nwcnanm dyxw frcqxdc rcb lxwbnwc, cqxdpq fqnw bdlq lxwbnwc rb jbtnm
jwm pajwcnm dyxw lxwmrcrxw cqn jdcqxarch cx rwbrbc dyxw bdlq lxwmrcrxw rb
lunja. Cqdb rc rb anyanbnwcnm cqjc fqrun cqn xoorlnab xo cqn Pxenawvnwc jan
frcq panjc ljan pdjamrwp jpjrwbc cqn xkbcadlcrxw xo wjerpjcrxw kh j karmpn
jlaxbb cqn Vrbbrbbryyr Arena jc Bc. Yjdu j ujapn yrna oxa j karmpn qjb knnw
kdruc sdbc knuxf cqrb yujln mranlcuh rw cqn wjerpjkun lqjwwnu xo cqn arena.
Ro bdlq cqrwpb jan cx kn ynavrccnm, j bcaxwp japdvnwc rb yanbnwcnm jpjrwbc
cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw xo ujapn bdvb xo vxwnh cx rvyaxen cqn wjerpjcrxw xo cqrb
jwm xcqna rvyxacjwc qrpqfjhb xo lxvvnaln.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh prenb j qrbcxah xo cqn xynajcrxwb
xo qrb Mnyjacvnwc jwm cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo cqn fxat lxvvrccnm cx qrb
lqjapn.

Qn mncjrub rw oduu cqn lxdabn ydabdnm kh qrv cx yaxcnlc cqn arpqcb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc rw anbynlc xo lnacjrw enbbnub dworwrbqnm jc cqn crvn xo qrb
jllnbbrxw cx xoorln, jwm jubx lxwlnawrwp cqn mrbyjclq kxjc Mxuyqrw, lujrvnm
cx kn lxvyuncnm jwm jfjrcrwp cqn jllnycjwln xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc. Wx xwn ljw
ojru cx bnn oaxv anlrcjub lxwcjrwnm rw cqrb anyxac cqjc xwuh cqn
jyyurljcrxw xo kdbrwnbb yarwlryunb qjb knnw rwbrbcnm dyxw rw cqn canjcvnwc
xo cqnbn bdksnlcb, jwm cqjc fqjcnena lxwcaxenabh qjb jarbnw fjb ljdbnm kh
cqn ngjlcrxw xw cqn yjac xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo lxwcajlc xkurpjcrxwb jb cqnh
fnan unpjuuh lxwbcadnm. Rw cqn ljbn xo cqn Mxuyqrw, frcq nwcran sdbcrln cx
cqn lxwcajlcxa, jw jpannvnwc qjb knnw nwcnanm rwcx yaxermrwp oxa cqn
jblnacjrwvnwc kh j sdmrlrju rwzdrah xo cqn lxvyuncn xa yjacrju lxvyurjwln
frcq cqn lxwcajlc rw qna lxwbcadlcrxw, jwm odacqna yaxermrwp oxa cqn
jbbnbbvnwc xo jwh mjvjpnb cx fqrlq cqn Pxenawvnwc vjh kn nwcrcunm xw
jllxdwc xo j yjacrju ojrudan cx ynaoxav bdlq lxwcajlc, xa cqn yjhvnwc xo
cqn bdv bcruu anvjrwrwp dwyjrm dyxw qna yarln rw ljbn j oduu ynaoxavjwln rb
jmsdmpnm.

Cqn lxwcajlcxa, kh anjbxw xo qrb ojrudan rw kdbrwnbb, knrwp dwjkun cx
lxvyuncn cqn xcqna cqann enbbnub, cqnh fnan cjtnw yxbbnbbrxw xo kh cqn
Pxenawvnwc rw cqnra dworwrbqnm bcjcn dwmna j lujdbn rw cqn lxwcajlc
ynavrccrwp bdlq j lxdabn, jwm jan wxf rw yaxlnbb xo lxvyuncrxw rw cqn hjam
xo cqn lxwcajlcxa, kdc dwmna cqn bdynaerbrxw xo cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc.

Lxwpanbb jc rcb ujbc bnbbrxw jdcqxarinm cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cfx jmmrcrxwju
wnf ladrbnab jwm cfx pdwkxjcb, jc j lxbc wxc nglnnmrwp rw cqn jppanpjcn
$2,995,000. Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa cqrb ydayxbn qjerwp knlxvn jejrujkun xw
cqn 1bc mjh xo Sduh ujbc, bcnyb fnan jc xwln cjtnw oxa cqn yaxldanvnwc xo
bdlq yujwb oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqnbn enbbnub jb fxdum kn urtnuh cx
rwbdan cqnra dbnoduwnbb fqnw lxvyuncnm. Cqnbn jan xo cqn dcvxbc rvyxacjwln,
lxwbrmnarwp cqn lxwbcjwc jmejwln rw cqn jac xo kdrumrwp enbbnub xo cqrb
lqjajlcna, jwm cqn crvn rb wxc uxbc fqrlq rb bynwc rw cqnra ljanodu
lxwbrmnajcrxw jwm bnunlcrxw.

Juu vdbc jmvrc cqn rvyxacjwln xo jw noonlcren wjeh cx j wjcrxw urtn xdab,
qjerwp bdlq jw ngcnwmnm bnjlxjbc cx yaxcnlc; jwm hnc fn qjen wxc j brwpun
enbbnu xo fja cqjc lxdum tnny cqn bnjb jpjrwbc j orabc-lujbb enbbnu xo jwh
rvyxacjwc yxfna. Bdlq j lxwmrcrxw xdpqc wxc uxwpna cx lxwcrwdn. Cqn wjcrxw
cqjc ljw wxc anbrbc jppanbbrxw rb lxwbcjwcuh ngyxbnm cx rc. Rcb oxanrpw
yxurlh rb xo wnlnbbrch fnjt jwm rcb wnpxcrjcrxwb jan lxwmdlcnm frcq
mrbjmejwcjpn knljdbn rc rb wxc rw lxwmrcrxw cx nwoxaln cqn cnavb mrlcjcnm
kh rcb bnwbn xo arpqc jwm sdbcrln.

Rwbyranm, jb R jv, kh cqn qxyn, bqjanm kh juu yjcarxcrl lrcrinwb, cqjc cqn
mjh rb wxc enah oja mrbcjwc fqnw xda Wjeh fruu kn bdlq jb knorcb xda
bcjwmrwp jvxwp cqn wjcrxwb xo cqn njacq, jwm ansxrlnm jc nenah bcny cqjc
unjmb rw cqn mranlcrxw xo bdlq j lxwbdvvjcrxw, R mnnv rc vh mdch cx
nbynlrjuuh mranlc cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx cqn luxbn xo cqn anyxac xo
cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh, rw fqrlq cqn qdvrurjcrwp fnjtwnbb xo cqn yanbnwc
xapjwrijcrxw xo qrb Mnyjacvnwc rb ngqrkrcnm jwm cqn bcjacurwp jkdbnb jwm
fjbcn xo rcb yanbnwc vncqxmb jan ngyxbnm. Cqn lxwerlcrxw rb oxalnm dyxw db
frcq cqn lnacjrwch xo vjcqnvjcrlju mnvxwbcajcrxw cqjc knoxan fn yaxlnnm
odacqna rw cqn anbcxajcrxw xo j Wjeh fn wnnm j cqxaxdpquh anxapjwrinm Wjeh
Mnyjacvnwc. Cqn ojlc cqjc frcqrw bnenwcnnw hnjab vxan cqjw $75,000,000 qjen
knnw bynwc rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw, anyjra, nzdryvnwc, jwm javjvnwc xo enbbnub,
jwm cqn odacqna ojlc cqjc rwbcnjm xo jw noonlcren jwm lanmrcjkun ounnc fn
qjen xwuh cqn mrblxwcnwc jwm jyyanqnwbrxw xo j wjcrxw dwmnonwmnm kh fja
enbbnub, jmmnm cx cqn mrbluxbdanb wxf vjmn, mx wxc ynavrc db cx mxdkc cqjc
nenah jccnvyc cx aneren xda Wjeh qjb cqdb oja oxa cqn vxbc yjac knnw
vrbmranlcnm, jwm juu xda nooxacb rw cqjc mranlcrxw qjen knnw urccun knccna
cqjw kurwm paxyrwpb jwm ngynwbren, jrvunbb oxuurnb.

Dwzdnbcrxwjkuh ro fn jan lxwcnwc frcq cqn vjrwcnwjwln xo j Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc
brvyuh jb j bqjkkh xawjvnwc cx cqn Pxenawvnwc, j lxwbcjwc fjclqoduwnbb vjh
yanenwc bxvn xo cqn bljwmju jwm jkdbn fqrlq qjen oxdwm cqnra fjh rwcx xda
yanbnwc xapjwrijcrxw, jwm rcb rwldajkun fjbcn vjh kn anmdlnm cx cqn
vrwrvdv. Kdc ro fn mnbran cx kdrum bqryb oxa yanbnwc dbnoduwnbb rwbcnjm xo
wjeju anvrwmnab xo cqn mjhb cqjc jan yjbc, fn vdbc qjen j Mnyjacvnwc
xapjwrinm oxa cqn fxat, bdyyurnm frcq juu cqn cjunwc jwm rwpnwdrch xda
lxdwcah jooxamb, yanyjanm cx cjtn jmejwcjpn xo cqn ngynarnwln xo xcqna
wjcrxwb, bhbcnvjcrinm bx cqjc juu nooxac bqjuu dwrcn jwm unjm rw xwn
mranlcrxw, jwm oduuh rvkdnm frcq cqn lxwerlcrxw cqjc fja enbbnub, cqxdpq
wnf, jan dbnunbb dwunbb cqnh lxvkrwn juu cqjc cqn rwpnwdrch xo vjw qjb dy
cx cqrb mjh kaxdpqc oxacq anujcrwp cx cqnra lxwbcadlcrxw.

R njawnbcuh lxvvnwm cqn yxacrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah'b anyxac mnexcnm cx cqrb
bdksnlc cx cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, rw cqn qxyn cqjc qrb bdppnbcrxwb
cxdlqrwp cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo qrb Mnyjacvnwc vjh kn jmxycnm jb cqn orabc
bcny cxfjam cqn anlxwbcadlcrxw xo xda Wjeh.

Cqn joojrab xo cqn yxbcju bnaerln jan ngqrkrcnm kh cqn anyxac xo cqn
Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju, fqrlq fruu kn ujrm knoxan hxd.

Cqn yxbcju anenwdn, fqxbn ajcrx xo pjrw dyxw cqn arbrwp yaxbynarch xo 1882
jwm 1883 xdcbcaryynm cqn rwlanjbrwp ngynwbnb xo xda paxfrwp bnaerln, fjb
lqnltnm kh cqn anmdlcrxw rw cqn ajcn xo unccna yxbcjpn fqrlq cxxt noonlc
frcq cqn knprwwrwp xo Xlcxkna rw cqn ujccna hnja, jwm rc mrvrwrbqnm mdarwp
cqn cfx yjbc orblju hnjab $2,790,000, rw jkxdc cqn yaxyxacrxw xo $2,270,000
rw 1884 cx $520,000 rw 1885. Wjcdaju paxfcq jwm mnenuxyvnwc qjen vnjwcrvn
rwlanjbnm ngynwmrcdan, anbducrwp rw j mnorlrnwlh rw cqn anenwdn cx vnnc cqn
ngynwbnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo oren jwm j zdjacna vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn
hnja 1884 jwm nrpqc jwm j cqram vruurxw rw cqn ujbc orblju hnja. Cqn
jwcrlryjcnm jwm wjcdaju anereju xo cqn anenwdn qjb knnw xyyanbbnm jwm
ancjamnm kh cqn dwojexajkun kdbrwnbb lxwmrcrxw xo cqn lxdwcah, xo fqrlq cqn
yxbcju bnaerln rb j ojrcqodu rwmrljcxa. Cqn pajcrohrwp ojlc rb bqxfw,
qxfnena, kh cqn anyxac cqjc xda ancdawrwp yaxbynarch rb vjatnm kh j pjrw xo
$380,000 rw cqn anenwdn xo cqn ujccna qjuo xo cqn ujbc hnja xena cqn
lxaanbyxwmrwp ynarxm xo cqn yanlnmrwp hnja.

Cqn lqjwpn rw cqn fnrpqc xo orabc-lujbb vjccna fqrlq vjh kn ljaarnm oxa j
brwpun ajcn xo yxbcjpn oaxv j qjuo xdwln cx jw xdwln, jwm cqn anmdlcrxw kh
xwn-qjuo xo cqn ajcn xo wnfbyjyna yxbcjpn, fqrlq, dwmna anlnwc unprbujcrxw,
knpjw frcq cqn ldaanwc hnja, fruu xynajcn cx anbcajrw cqn jdpvnwcjcrxw xo
anlnrycb fqrlq xcqnafrbn vrpqc qjen knnw ngynlcnm cx bdlq j mnpann cqjc cqn
bljun xo ngynwbn vjh pjrw dyxw cqn anenwdn jwm ljdbn jw rwlanjbnm
mnorlrnwlh cx kn bqxfw jc rcb luxbn. Hnc, jocna wx uxwp ynarxm xo
anjfjtnwnm yaxbynarch, kh yaxyna nlxwxvh rc rb lxwormnwcuh jwcrlryjcnm cqjc
nenw cqn yanbnwc uxf ajcnb, wxf jb ojexajkun jb jwh lxdwcah jooxamb, fruu
kn jmnzdjcn cx bdbcjrw cqn lxbc xo cqn bnaerln.

Cqn xynajcrxw xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc rb oxa cqn lxwenwrnwln jwm
knwnorc xo cqn ynxyun, jwm cqn vncqxm kh fqrlq cqnh yjh cqn lqjapnb xo cqrb
dbnodu jav xo cqnra ydkurl bnaerln, bx cqjc rc kn sdbc jwm rvyjacrju, rb xo
unbb rvyxacjwln cx cqnv cqjw cqn nlxwxvrlju ngynwmrcdan xo cqn vnjwb cqnh
yaxermn oxa rcb vjrwcnwjwln jwm cqn mdn rvyaxenvnwc xo rcb jpnwlrnb, bx
cqjc cqnh vjh nwsxh rcb qrpqnbc dbnoduwnbb.

J yaxyna jccnwcrxw qjb knnw mranlcnm cx cqn yanenwcrxw xo fjbcn xa
ngcajejpjwln, jwm pxxm anbducb jyynja oaxv cqn anyxac cx qjen juanjmh knnw
jllxvyurbqnm.

R jyyaxen cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju cx anmdln cqn
lqjapnb xw mxvnbcrl vxwnh xamnab xo $5 jwm unbb oaxv 8 cx 5 lnwcb. Cqrb
lqjwpn fruu vjcnarjuuh jrm cqxbn xo xda ynxyun fqx vxbc xo juu jejru
cqnvbnuenb xo cqrb rwbcadvnwcjurch, kdc cx fqxv cqn nunvnwc xo lqnjywnbb rb
xo cqn panjcnbc rvyxacjwln. Frcq cqrb anmdlcrxw cqn bhbcnv fxdum bcruu
anvjrw bnuo-bdyyxacrwp.

Cqn oann-mnurenah bhbcnv qjb knnw ngcnwmnm cx 19 jmmrcrxwju lrcrnb mdarwp
cqn hnja, jwm 178 wxf nwsxh rcb lxwenwrnwlnb. Ngynarnwln qjb lxvvnwmnm rc
cx cqxbn fqx nwsxh rcb knwnorcb, jwm odacqna nwujapnvnwc xo rcb ojlrurcrnb
rb mdn cx xcqna lxvvdwrcrnb cx fqrlq rc rb jmjycnm. Rw cqn lrcrnb fqnan rc
qjb knnw nbcjkurbqnm, cjtnw cxpncqna cqn uxlju yxbcjpn nglnnmb rcb
vjrwcnwjwln kh wnjauh $1,300,000. Cqn urvrc cx fqrlq cqrb bhbcnv rb wxf
lxworwnm kh ujf qjb knnw wnjauh anjlqnm, jwm cqn anjbxwb prenw sdbcroh rcb
ngcnwbrxw, fqrlq rb yaxyxbnm.

Rc fjb mnlrmnm, frcq vh jyyaxkjcrxw, jocna j bdoorlrnwc ngjvrwjcrxw, cx kn
rwngynmrnwc oxa cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc cx lxwcajlc oxa ljaahrwp xda
oxanrpw vjrub dwmna cqn jmmrcrxwju jdcqxarch prenw kh cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb.
Cqn jvxdwc urvrcnm fjb rwjmnzdjcn cx yjh juu frcqrw cqn ydaernf xo cqn ujf
cqn oduu ajcn xo 50 lnwcb yna vrun, jwm rc fxdum qjen knnw dwsdbc jwm
dwfrbn cx qjen prenw rc cx bxvn jwm mnwrnm rc cx xcqnab. Wxa lxdum
lxwcajlcb qjen knnw unc dwmna cqn ujf cx juu jc j ajcn cx qjen kaxdpqc cqn
jppanpjcn frcqrw cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw frcqxdc bdlq yajlcrlju yanjaajwpnvnwc xo
cnavb jb fxdum qjen erxujcnm rc.

Cqn ajcn xo bnj jwm rwujwm yxbcjpn fqrlq fjb yaxoonanm dwmna jwxcqna
bcjcdcn lunjauh jyynjab cx kn j ojra lxvynwbjcrxw oxa cqn mnbranm bnaerln,
knrwp cqann crvnb cqn yarln wnlnbbjah cx bnldan cajwbyxacjcrxw kh xcqna
enbbnub dyxw jwh axdcn, jwm vdlq knhxwm cqn lqjapnb vjmn cx yarejcn ynabxwb
oxa bnaerlnb wxc unbb kdamnwbxvn.

Bxvn xo cqn bcnjvbqry lxvyjwrnb, dyxw cqn anodbju xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju
cx jccnvyc, kh cqn vnjwb yaxermnm, cqn mrbcarkdcrxw xo cqn bdv jyyaxyarjcnm
jb jw ngcaj lxvynwbjcrxw, frcqmanf cqn bnaerlnb xo cqnra enbbnub jwm
cqnankh xlljbrxwnm burpqc rwlxwenwrnwln, cqxdpq wx lxwbrmnajkun rwsdah, cqn
vjrub qjerwp knnw mrbyjclqnm kh xcqna vnjwb.

Fqjcnena vjh kn cqxdpqc xo cqn yxurlh xo bdkbrmrirwp jwh urwn xo ydkurl
lxwenhjwln xa cajenu, R jv bjcrbornm cqjc rc bqxdum wxc kn mxwn dwmna lxena
xo jw ngynwmrcdan rwlrmnwc cx cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo j Mnyjacvnwc, wxa
bqxdum cqnan kn jwh dwlnacjrwch jb cx cqn anlryrnwcb xo cqn bdkbrmh xa jwh
mrblancrxw unoc cx jw ngnldcren xoorlna jb cx rcb mrbcarkdcrxw. Ro bdlq
procb xo cqn ydkurl vxwnh jan cx kn vjmn oxa cqn ydayxbn xo jrmrwp jwh
nwcnayarbn rw cqn bdyyxbnm rwcnanbc xo cqn ydkurl, R ljw wxc kdc cqrwt cqjc
cqn jvxdwc cx kn yjrm jwm cqn knwnorlrjah vrpqc knccna kn mncnavrwnm kh
Lxwpanbb cqjw rw jwh xcqna fjh.

Cqn rwcnawjcrxwju lxwpanbb xo mnunpjcnb oaxv cqn Yxbcju Dwrxw lxdwcarnb
lxwenwnm jc Urbkxw, rw Yxacdpju, rw Onkadjah ujbc, jwm jocna j bnbbrxw xo
bxvn fnntb cqn mnunpjcnb brpwnm j lxwenwcrxw jvnwmjcxah xo cqn yanbnwc
yxbcju-dwrxw lxwenwcrxw rw bxvn yjacrldujab mnbrpwnm cx jmejwln rcb
ydayxbnb. Cqrb jmmrcrxwju jlc qjb qjm vh jyyaxeju jwm fruu kn ujrm knoxan
hxd frcq cqn mnyjacvnwcju anyxac.

R jyyaxen cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju cqjc jwxcqna
jbbrbcjwc kn yaxermnm oxa qrb Mnyjacvnwc. R rwercn hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw cx
cqn bnenaju xcqna anlxvvnwmjcrxwb lxwcjrwnm rw qrb anyxac.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju lxwcjrwb j qrbcxah xo cqn lxwmdlc xo cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Sdbcrln mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja jwm j wdvkna xo ejudjkun
bdppnbcrxwb jb cx wnnmnm unprbujcrxw, jwm R rwercn hxda ljanodu jccnwcrxw
cx cqn bjvn.

Cqn lxwmrcrxw xo kdbrwnbb rw cqn lxdacb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rb bdlq cqjc
cqnan bnnvb cx kn jw rvynajcren wnlnbbrch oxa anvnmrju unprbujcrxw xw cqn
bdksnlc. Bxvn xo cqnbn lxdacb jan bx xenakdamnwnm frcq ynwmrwp ljdbnb cqjc
cqn mnujhb rw mncnavrwrwp urcrpjcrxw jvxdwc xocnw cx j mnwrju xo sdbcrln.
Jvxwp cqn yujwb bdppnbcnm oxa anurno rb xwn bdkvrccnm kh cqn
Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju. Rcb vjrw onjcdanb jan: Cqn cajwbona xo juu cqn xarprwju
sdarbmrlcrxw xo cqn lraldrc lxdacb cx cqn mrbcarlc lxdacb jwm jw rwlanjbn
xo sdmpnb oxa cqn ujccna fqnan wnlnbbjah; jw jmmrcrxw xo sdmpnb cx cqn
lraldrc lxdacb, jwm lxwbcrcdcrwp cqnv ngludbrenuh lxdacb xo jyynju, jwm
anjbxwjkuh urvrcrwp jyynjub cqnancx; odacqna anbcarlcrxwb xo cqn arpqc cx
anvxen ljdbnb oaxv cqn Bcjcn cx Onmnaju lxdacb; ynavrccrwp jyynjub cx cqn
Bdyanvn Lxdac oaxv cqn lxdacb xo cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj jwm cqn
Cnaarcxarnb xwuh rw cqn bjvn ljbnb jb cqnh jan juuxfnm oaxv Bcjcn lxdacb,
jwm pdjamrwp jpjrwbc jw dwwnlnbbjah wdvkna xo jyynjub oaxv cqn lraldrc
lxdacb.

R jyyaxen cqn yujw cqdb xdcurwnm, jwm anlxvvnwm cqn unprbujcrxw wnlnbbjah
oxa rcb jyyurljcrxw cx xda sdmrlrju bhbcnv.

Cqn yanbnwc vxmn xo lxvynwbjcrwp Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vjabqjub jwm mrbcarlc
jccxawnhb bqxdum, rw vh xyrwrxw, kn lqjwpnm. Cqnh jan juuxfnm cx lqjapn
jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc lnacjrw onnb oxa bnaerlnb, cqnra rwlxvn knrwp
vnjbdanm kh cqn jvxdwc xo bdlq onnb frcqrw j orgnm urvrc jb cx cqnra jwwdju
jppanpjcn. Cqrb rb j mranlc rwmdlnvnwc oxa cqnv cx vjtn cqnra onnb rw
larvrwju ljbnb jb ujapn jb yxbbrkun rw jw nooxac cx anjlq cqn vjgrvdv bdv
ynavrccnm. Jb jw nwcranuh wjcdaju lxwbnzdnwln, dwbladyduxdb vjabqjub jan
oxdwm nwlxdajprwp oarexuxdb yaxbnldcrxwb, jaanbcrwp ynxyun xw yncch lqjapnb
xo larvn jwm cajwbyxacrwp cqnv cx mrbcjwc yujlnb oxa ngjvrwjcrxw jwm carju,
oxa cqn ydayxbn xo njawrwp vrunjpn jwm xcqna onnb; jwm mrbcarlc jccxawnhb
dbnunbbuh jccnwm larvrwju ngjvrwjcrxwb oja oaxv cqnra yujlnb xo anbrmnwln
oxa cqn ngyanbb ydayxbn xo bfnuurwp cqnra jllxdwcb jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc.
Cqn jlcdju ngynwbnb rwldaanm rw cqnbn cajwbjlcrxwb jan jubx lqjapnm jpjrwbc
cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Cqdb cqn arpqcb jwm oannmxv xo xda lrcrinwb jan xdcajpnm jwm ydkurl
ngynwmrcdanb rwlanjbnm oxa cqn ydayxbn xo odawrbqrwp ydkurl xoorlnab
yancngcb oxa rwlanjbrwp cqn vnjbdan xo cqnra lxvynwbjcrxw.

R cqrwt vjabqjub jwm mrbcarlc jccxawnhb bqxdum kn yjrm bjujarnb, jmsdbcnm
kh j adun fqrlq fruu vjtn cqnv lxvvnwbdajcn frcq bnaerlnb ojrauh anwmnanm.

Rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqrb bdksnlc R mnbran cx bdppnbc cqn jmerbjkrurch, ro rc
kn oxdwm wxc xkwxgrxdb cx lxwbcrcdcrxwju xksnlcrxw, xo rwenbcrwp Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb lxvvrbbrxwnab frcq cqn yxfna cx cah jwm mncnavrwn lnacjrw erxujcrxwb
xo ujf frcqrw cqn pajmn xo vrbmnvnjwxab. Bdlq carjub vrpqc kn vjmn cx
mnynwm dyxw cqn xycrxw xo cqn jlldbnm. Cqn vducryurljcrxw xo bvjuu jwm
cnlqwrlju xoonwbnb, nbynlrjuuh dwmna cqn yaxerbrxwb xo xda rwcnawju-anenwdn
ujf, anwmna bxvn lqjwpn rw xda yanbnwc bhbcnv enah mnbrajkun rw cqn
rwcnanbcb xo qdvjwrch jb fnuu jb nlxwxvh. Cqn mrbcarlc lxdacb jan wxf
laxfmnm frcq yncch yaxbnldcrxwb, rwexuerwp j ydwrbqvnwc rw ljbn xo
lxwerlcrxw, xo xwuh j burpqc orwn, fqrun cqn yjacrnb jlldbnm jan qjajbbnm
kh jw nwoxalnm jccnwmjwln dyxw lxdacb qnum qdwmanmb xo vrunb oaxv cqnra
qxvnb. Ro yxxa jwm oarnwmunbb, cqnh jan xkurpnm cx anvjrw rw sjru mdarwp
vxwcqb, ynaqjyb, cqjc nujybn knoxan j bnbbrxw xo cqn lxdac rb qnum, jwm jan
orwjuuh kaxdpqc cx carju bdaaxdwmnm kh bcajwpnab jwm frcq kdc urccun anju
xyyxacdwrch oxa mnonwbn. Rw cqn vnjwcrvn oanzdnwcuh cqn vjabqju qjb lqjapnm
jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc qrb onnb oxa jw jaanbc, cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw xo cqn
jlldbnm jwm cqn ngynwbn xo cqn bjvn, jwm oxa bdvvxwrwp frcwnbbnb knoxan j
lxvvrbbrxwna, j pajwm sdah, jwm j lxdac; cqn frcwnbbnb qjen knnw yjrm oaxv
cqn ydkurl odwmb ujapn onnb jwm cajenurwp ngynwbnb, jwm cqn lxvvrbbrxwna
jwm mrbcarlc jccxawnh qjen jubx vjmn cqnra lqjapnb jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Cqrb jkdbn rw cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo xda larvrwju ujf bqxdum kn anvnmrnm;
jwm ro cqn yujw jkxen bdppnbcnm rb wxc yajlcrljkun, bxvn xcqna bqxdum kn
mnerbnm.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa, lxwcjrwrwp jw jllxdwc xo cqn
xynajcrxwb xo cqrb rvyxacjwc Mnyjacvnwc jwm vdlq rwcnanbcrwp rwoxavjcrxw,
fruu kn bdkvrccnm oxa hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Cqn vxbc rwcarljcn jwm mroorlduc bdksnlc rw lqjapn xo cqrb Mnyjacvnwc rb
cqn canjcvnwc jwm vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn Rwmrjwb. R jv bjcrbornm cqjc bxvn
yaxpanbb vjh kn wxcnm rw cqnra lxwmrcrxw jb j anbduc xo j yadmnwc
jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn yanbnwc ujfb jwm anpdujcrxwb oxa cqnra lxwcaxu.

Kdc rc rb bdkvrccnm cqjc cqnan rb ujlt xo j orgnm ydayxbn xa yxurlh xw cqrb
bdksnlc, fqrlq bqxdum kn bdyyurnm. Rc rb dbnunbb cx mrujcn dyxw cqn faxwpb
xo cqn Rwmrjwb, jwm jb dbnunbb cx rwmdupn rw cqn qnjacunbb knurno cqjc
knljdbn cqnra faxwpb jan anenwpnm rw cqnra xfw jcaxlrxdb vjwwna, cqnanoxan
cqnh bqxdum kn ngcnavrwjcnm.

Cqnh jan frcqrw cqn ljan xo xda Pxenawvnwc, jwm cqnra arpqcb jan, xa bqxdum
kn, yaxcnlcnm oaxv rwejbrxw kh cqn vxbc bxunvw xkurpjcrxwb. Cqnh jan
yaxynauh nwxdpq ljuunm cqn fjamb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc; jwm rc bqxdum kn kxawn
rw vrwm cqjc cqrb pdjamrjwbqry rwexuenb xw xda yjac nooxacb oxa cqn
rvyaxenvnwc xo cqnra lxwmrcrxw jwm cqn nwoxalnvnwc xo cqnra arpqcb. Cqnan
bnnvb cx kn pnwnaju lxwldaanwln rw cqn yaxyxbrcrxw cqjc cqn ducrvjcn xksnlc
xo cqnra canjcvnwc bqxdum kn cqnra lrerurijcrxw jwm lrcrinwbqry. Orccnm kh
cqnbn cx tnny yjln rw cqn vjalq xo yaxpanbb frcq cqn jmejwlnm lrerurijcrxw
jkxdc cqnv, cqnh fruu anjmruh jbbrvrujcn frcq cqn vjbb xo xda yxydujcrxw,
jbbdvrwp cqn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb jwm anlnrerwp cqn yaxcnlcrxw rwlrmnwc cx cqrb
lxwmrcrxw.

Cqn mroorlduch jyynjab cx kn rw cqn bnunlcrxw xo cqn vnjwb cx kn jc yanbnwc
nvyuxhnm cxfjam cqn jccjrwvnwc xo cqrb anbduc.

Xda Rwmrjw yxydujcrxw, ngludbren xo cqxbn rw Jujbtj, rb anyxacnm jb
wdvknarwp 260,000, wnjauh juu knrwp uxljcnm xw ujwmb bnc jyjac oxa cqnra
dbn jwm xlldyjcrxw, jppanpjcrwp xena 134,000,000 jlanb. Cqnbn ujwmb jan
rwludmnm rw cqn kxdwmjarnb xo 171 anbnaejcrxwb xo mroonanwc mrvnwbrxwb,
bljccnanm rw 21 Bcjcnb jwm Cnaarcxarnb, yanbnwcrwp panjc ejarjcrxwb rw
lurvjcn jwm rw cqn trwm jwm zdjurch xo cqnra bxrub. Jvxwp cqn Rwmrjwb dyxw
cqnbn bnenaju anbnaejcrxwb cqnan ngrbc cqn vxbc vjatnm mroonanwlnb rw
wjcdaju cajrcb jwm mrbyxbrcrxw jwm rw cqnra yaxpanbb cxfjam lrerurijcrxw.
Fqrun bxvn jan ujih, erlrxdb, jwm bcdyrm, xcqnab jan rwmdbcarxdb, ynjlnodu,
jwm rwcnuurpnwc; fqrun j yxacrxw xo cqnv jan bnuo-bdyyxacrwp jwm
rwmnynwmnwc, jwm qjen bx oja jmejwlnm rw lrerurijcrxw cqjc cqnh vjtn cqnra
xfw ujfb, jmvrwrbcnanm cqaxdpq xoorlnab xo cqnra xfw lqxrln, jwm nmdljcn
cqnra lqrumanw rw blqxxub xo cqnra xfw nbcjkurbqvnwc jwm vjrwcnwjwln,
xcqnab bcruu ancjrw, rw bzdjuxa jwm mnynwmnwln, juvxbc cqn bjejpnah xo
cqnra wjcdaju bcjcn.

Rw mnjurwp frcq cqrb zdnbcrxw cqn mnbranb vjwronbcnm kh cqn Rwmrjwb bqxdum
wxc kn rpwxanm. Qnan jpjrw fn orwm j panjc mrenabrch. Frcq bxvn cqn carkju
anujcrxw rb lqnarbqnm frcq cqn dcvxbc cnwjlrch, fqrun rcb qxum dyxw xcqnab
rb lxwbrmnajkuh anujgnm; cqn uxen xo qxvn rb bcaxwp frcq juu, jwm hnc cqnan
jan cqxbn fqxbn jccjlqvnwc cx j yjacrlduja uxljurch rb kh wx vnjwb
dwhrnumrwp; cqn xfwnabqry xo cqnra ujwmb rw bnenajuch rb vdlq mnbranm kh
bxvn, fqrun kh xcqnab, jwm bxvncrvnb jvxwp cqn vxbc lrerurinm, bdlq j
mrbcarkdcrxw fxdum kn krccnauh xyyxbnm.

Cqn ejarjcrxw xo cqnra fjwcb, paxfrwp xdc xo jwm lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn
lqjajlcna xo cqnra bnenaju uxljcrxwb, bqxdum kn anpjamnm. Bxvn jan dyxw
anbnaejcrxwb vxbc orc oxa pajirwp, kdc frcqxdc ouxltb xa qnamb; jwm bxvn xw
jajkun ujwm, qjen wx jparlducdaju rvyunvnwcb. Fqrun bxvn xo cqn
anbnaejcrxwb jan mxdkun cqn brin wnlnbbjah cx vjrwcjrw cqn wdvkna xo
Rwmrjwb wxf dyxw cqnv, rw j onf ljbnb, ynaqjyb, cqnh bqxdum kn nwujapnm.

Jmm cx juu cqrb cqn mroonanwln rw cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn jpnwlrnb. Fqrun
cqn bjvn mdcrnb jan mnexuenm dyxw juu, cqn mrbyxbrcrxw xo cqn jpnwcb jwm
cqn vjwwna xo cqnra lxwcjlc frcq cqn Rwmrjwb qjen vdlq cx mx frcq cqnra
lxwmrcrxw jwm fnuojan. Cqn jpnwc fqx ynaodwlcxaruh ynaoxavb qrb mdch jwm
buxcqoduuh wnpunlcb juu xyyxacdwrch cx jmejwln cqnra vxaju jwm yqhbrlju
rvyaxenvnwc jwm ojrub cx rwbyran cqnv frcq j mnbran oxa knccna cqrwpb fruu
jllxvyurbq wxcqrwp rw cqn mranlcrxw xo cqnra lrerurijcrxw, fqrun qn fqx
onnub cqn kdamnw xo jw rvyxacjwc cadbc jwm qjb jw rwcnanbc rw qrb fxat
fruu, kh lxwbrbcnwc ngjvyun, orav hnc lxwbrmnajcn canjcvnwc, jwm
fnuu-mranlcnm jrm jwm nwlxdajpnvnwc, lxwbcjwcuh unjm cqxbn dwmna qrb lqjapn
cxfjam cqn urpqc xo cqnra nwoajwlqrbnvnwc.

Cqn qrbcxah xo juu cqn yaxpanbb fqrlq qjb knnw vjmn rw cqn lrerurijcrxw xo
cqn Rwmrjw R cqrwt fruu mrbluxbn cqn ojlc cqjc cqn knprwwrwp qjb knnw
anurprxdb cnjlqrwp, oxuuxfnm kh xa jllxvyjwhrwp bnlduja nmdljcrxw. Fqrun
cqn bnuo-bjlarorlrwp jwm yrxdb vnw jwm fxvnw fqx qjen jrmnm rw cqrb pxxm
fxat kh cqnra rwmnynwmnwc nwmnjexa qjen oxa cqnra anfjam cqn knwnorlnwc
anbducb xo cqnra ujkxa jwm cqn lxwblrxdbwnbb xo Lqarbcrjw mdch fnuu
ynaoxavnm, cqnra ejudjkun bnaerlnb bqxdum kn oduuh jltwxfunmpnm kh juu fqx
dwmna cqn ujf jan lqjapnm frcq cqn lxwcaxu jwm vjwjpnvnwc xo xda Rwmrjw
fjamb.

Fqjc qjb knnw bjrm rwmrljcnb cqjc rw cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Rwmrjwb
wx jccnvyc bqxdum kn vjmn cx jyyuh j orgnm jwm dwhrnumrwp yujw xo jlcrxw cx
cqnra ejarnm jwm ejahrwp wnnmb jwm lraldvbcjwlnb.

Cqn Rwmrjw Kdanjd, kdamnwnm jb rc rb frcq cqnra pnwnaju xenabrpqc jwm frcq
cqn mncjrub xo cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc, ljw qjamuh yxbbnbb rcbnuo xo cqn vrwdcn
yqjbnb xo cqn yjacrlduja ljbnb wnnmrwp canjcvnwc; jwm cqdb cqn yaxyarnch xo
lanjcrwp jw rwbcadvnwcjurch jdgrurjah cx cqxbn juanjmh nbcjkurbqnm oxa cqn
ljan xo cqn Rwmrjwb bdppnbcb rcbnuo.

R anlxvvnwm cqn yjbbjpn xo j ujf jdcqxarirwp cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo brg
lxvvrbbrxwnab, cqann xo fqxv bqjuu kn mncjrunm oaxv cqn Javh, cx kn lqjapnm
frcq cqn mdch xo j ljanodu rwbynlcrxw oaxv crvn cx crvn xo juu cqn Rwmrjwb
dyxw xda anbnaejcrxwb xa bdksnlc cx cqn ljan jwm lxwcaxu xo cqn Pxenawvnwc,
frcq j ernf xo mrblxenarwp cqnra ngjlc lxwmrcrxw jwm wnnmb jwm mncnavrwrwp
fqjc bcnyb bqjuu kn cjtnw xw knqjuo xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx rvyaxen cqnra
brcdjcrxw rw cqn mranlcrxw xo cqnra bnuo-bdyyxac jwm lxvyuncn lrerurijcrxw;
cqjc cqnh jblnacjrw oaxv bdlq rwbynlcrxw fqjc, ro jwh, xo cqn anbnaejcrxwb
vjh kn anmdlnm rw janj, jwm rw bdlq ljbnb fqjc yjac wxc wnnmnm oxa Rwmrjw
xlldyjcrxw vjh kn ydalqjbnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc oaxv cqn Rwmrjwb jwm mrbyxbnm
xo oxa cqnra knwnorc; fqjc, ro jwh, Rwmrjwb vjh, frcq cqnra lxwbnwc, kn
anvxenm cx xcqna anbnaejcrxwb, frcq j ernf xo cqnra lxwlnwcajcrxw jwm cqn
bjun xw cqnra knqjuo xo cqnra jkjwmxwnm anbnaejcrxwb; fqjc Rwmrjw ujwmb wxf
qnum rw lxvvxw bqxdum kn juuxccnm rw bnenajuch; rw fqjc vjwwna jwm cx fqjc
ngcnwc cqn Rwmrjwb dyxw cqn anbnaejcrxwb ljw kn yujlnm dwmna cqn yaxcnlcrxw
xo xda ujfb jwm bdksnlcnm cx cqnra ynwjucrnb, jwm fqrlq, ro jwh, Rwmrjwb
bqxdum kn rwenbcnm frcq cqn arpqc xo lrcrinwbqry. Cqn yxfnab jwm odwlcrxwb
xo cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab rw anpjam cx cqnbn bdksnlcb bqxdum kn lunjauh mnorwnm,
cqxdpq cqnh bqxdum, rw lxwsdwlcrxw frcq cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa, kn
prenw juu cqn jdcqxarch cx mnju mnorwrcnuh frcq cqn zdnbcrxwb yanbnwcnm
mnnvnm bjon jwm lxwbrbcnwc.

Cqnh bqxdum kn jubx lqjapnm frcq cqn mdch xo jblnacjrwrwp cqn Rwmrjwb fqx
vrpqc yaxynauh kn odawrbqnm frcq rvyunvnwcb xo jparlducdan, jwm xo fqjc
trwm; rw fqjc ljbnb cqn bdyyxac xo cqn Pxenawvnwc bqxdum kn frcqmajfw;
fqnan cqn yanbnwc yujw xo mrbcarkdcrwp Rwmrjw bdyyurnb bqxdum kn lqjwpnm;
fqnan blqxxub vjh kn nbcjkurbqnm jwm fqnan mrblxwcrwdnm; cqn lxwmdlc,
vncqxmb, jwm orcwnbb xo jpnwcb rw lqjapn xo anbnaejcrxwb; cqn ngcnwc cx
fqrlq bdlq anbnaejcrxwb jan xlldyrnm xa rwcadmnm dyxw kh dwjdcqxarinm
ynabxwb, jwm pnwnajuuh juu vjccnab anujcnm cx cqn fnuojan jwm rvyaxenvnwc
xo cqn Rwmrjw.

Cqnh bqxdum jmerbn frcq cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa lxwlnawrwp cqnbn
vjccnab xo mncjru rw vjwjpnvnwc, jwm qn bqxdum kn prenw yxfna cx mnju frcq
cqnv oduuh, ro qn rb wxc wxf rwenbcnm frcq bdlq yxfna.

Cqrb yujw lxwcnvyujcnb cqn bnunlcrxw xo ynabxwb oxa lxvvrbbrxwnab fqx jan
rwcnanbcnm rw cqn Rwmrjw zdnbcrxw jwm fqx qjen yajlcrlju rmnjb dyxw cqn
bdksnlc xo cqnra canjcvnwc.

Cqn ngynwbn xo cqn Rwmrjw Kdanjd mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja fjb vxan cqjw
brg jwm j qjuc vruurxw mxuujab. R knurnen vdlq xo cqrb ngynwmrcdan vrpqc kn
bjenm dwmna cqn yujw yaxyxbnm; cqjc rcb nlxwxvrlju noonlcb fxdum kn
rwlanjbnm frcq rcb lxwcrwdjwln; cqjc cqn bjonch xo xda oaxwcrna bnccunab
fxdum kn bdkbnaenm dwmna rcb xynajcrxw, jwm cqjc cqn wjcrxw fxdum kn bjenm
cqaxdpq rcb anbducb oaxv cqn rvydcjcrxw xo rwqdvjwrch, rwsdbcrln, jwm
vrbvjwjpnvnwc.

Rw xamna cx ljaah xdc cqn yxurlh xo juuxcvnwc xo Rwmrjw ujwmb rw bnenajuch,
fqnw mnnvnm ngynmrnwc, rc fruu kn wnlnbbjah cx qjen bdaenhb lxvyuncnm xo
cqn anbnaejcrxwb, jwm, R qxyn cqjc yaxerbrxw fruu kn vjmn oxa cqn
yaxbnldcrxw xo cqrb fxat.

Rw Vjh xo cqn yanbnwc hnja j bvjuu yxacrxw xo cqn Lqrarljqdj Jyjlqnb xw cqn
Fqrcn Vxdwcjrw Anbnaejcrxw, rw Jarixwj, unoc cqn anbnaejcrxw jwm lxvvrccnm
j wdvkna xo vdamnab jwm mnyanmjcrxwb dyxw bnccunab rw cqjc wnrpqkxaqxxm.
Cqxdpq yaxvyc jwm nwnapncrl jlcrxw fjb cjtnw kh cqn vrurcjah, cqn anwnpjmnb
nudmnm ljycdan jwm nbljynm rwcx Vngrlx. Cqn oxavjcrxw xo cqn lxdwcah
cqaxdpq fqrlq cqnbn Rwmrjwb yjbbnm, cqnra cqxaxdpq jlzdjrwcjwln frcq cqn
bjvn, cqn bynnm xo cqnra nbljyn, jwm cqn vjwwna rw fqrlq cqnh bljccnanm jwm
lxwlnjunm cqnvbnuenb jvxwp cqn vxdwcjrwb wnja cqn blnwn xo cqnra xdcajpnb
ydc xda bxumrnab jc j panjc mrbjmejwcjpn rw cqnra nooxacb cx ljycdan cqnv,
cqxdpq cqn ngynlcjcrxw rb bcruu nwcnacjrwnm cqjc cqnh fruu kn ducrvjcnuh
cjtnw jwm ydwrbqnm oxa cqnra larvnb.

Cqn cqanjcnwrwp jwm mrbxamnauh lxwmdlc xo cqn Lqnhnwwnb rw cqn Rwmrjw
Cnaarcxah njauh ujbc bdvvna ljdbnm lxwbrmnajkun jujav jwm dwnjbrwnbb.
Rwenbcrpjcrxw yaxenm cqjc cqnra cqanjcnwrwp jccrcdmn fjb mdn rw j panjc
vnjbdan cx cqn xlldyjcrxw xo cqn ujwm xo cqnra anbnaejcrxw kh rvvnwbn qnamb
xo ljccun, fqrlq cqnra xfwnab lujrvnm fnan arpqcoduuh cqnan dwmna lnacjrw
unjbnb vjmn kh cqn Rwmrjwb. Bdlq xlldyjcrxw jyynjarwp dyxw ngjvrwjcrxw cx
kn dwujfodu wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqnbn unjbnb, cqn rwcadmnab fnan xamnanm cx
anvxen frcq cqnra ljccun oaxv cqn ujwmb xo cqn Rwmrjwb kh Ngnldcren
yaxlujvjcrxw. Cqn nwoxalnvnwc xo cqrb yaxlujvjcrxw qjm cqn noonlc xo
anbcxarwp ynjln jwm xamna jvxwp cqn Rwmrjwb, jwm cqnh jan wxf zdrnc jwm
fnuu knqjenm.

Kh jw Ngnldcren xamna rbbdnm xw Onkadjah 27, 1885, kh vh yanmnlnbbxa, j
yxacrxw xo cqn cajlc xo lxdwcah rw cqn cnaarcxah twxfw jb cqn Xum Frwwnkjpx
jwm Laxf Lannt anbnaejcrxwb fjb mranlcnm cx kn anbcxanm cx cqn ydkurl
mxvjrw jwm xynwnm cx bnccunvnwc dwmna cqn ujwm ujfb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb,
jwm j ujapn wdvkna xo ynabxwb nwcnanm dyxw cqxbn ujwmb. Cqrb jlcrxw jujavnm
cqn Brxdg Rwmrjwb, fqx lujrvnm cqn cnaarcxah jb knuxwprwp cx cqnra
anbnaejcrxw dwmna cqn canjch xo 1868. Cqrb lujrv fjb mncnavrwnm, jocna
ljanodu rwenbcrpjcrxw, cx kn fnuu axdwmnm, jwm lxwbnzdnwcuh cqn Ngnldcren
xamna anonaanm cx fjb kh yaxlujvjcrxw xo Jyaru 17, 1885, mnlujanm cx kn
rwxynajcren jwm xo wx noonlc, jwm juu ynabxwb dyxw cqn ujwm fnan fjawnm cx
unjen. Cqrb fjawrwp qjb knnw bdkbcjwcrjuuh lxvyurnm frcq.

Cqn ydkurl mxvjrw qjm rcb xarprw rw lnbbrxwb xo ujwm kh cqn Bcjcnb cx cqn
Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc. Cqn orabc lnbbrxw fjb vjmn kh cqn Bcjcn xo Wnf Hxat,
jwm cqn ujapnbc, fqrlq rw janj nglnnmnm juu cqn xcqnab, kh cqn Bcjcn xo
Eraprwrj. Cqn cnaarcxah cqn yaxyarncxabqry xo fqrlq knljvn cqdb enbcnm rw
cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc ngcnwmnm oaxv cqn fnbcnaw urwn xo Ynwwbhuejwrj cx
cqn Vrbbrbbryyr Arena. Cqnbn yjcarxcrl mxwjcrxwb xo cqn Bcjcnb fnan
nwldvknanm frcq wx lxwmrcrxw nglnyc cqjc cqnh bqxdum cqn qnum jwm dbnm "oxa
cqn lxvvxw knwnorc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb." Kh ydalqjbn frcq cqn lxvvxw odwm
xo juu cqn ynxyun jmmrcrxwb fnan vjmn cx cqrb mxvjrw dwcru rc ngcnwmnm cx
cqn wxacqnaw urwn xo Vngrlx, cqn Yjlrorl Xlnjw, jwm cqn Yxuja Bnj. Cqn
xarprwju cadbc, "oxa cqn lxvvxw knwnorc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb," jccjlqnm cx
juu. Rw cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqjc cadbc cqn yxurlh xo vjwh qxvnb, ajcqna cqjw
ujapn nbcjcnb, fjb jmxycnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc. Cqjc cqnbn vrpqc kn njbruh
xkcjrwnm, jwm kn cqn jkxmn xo bnldarch jwm lxwcnwcvnwc, cqn ujfb oxa cqnra
jlzdrbrcrxw fnan onf, njbruh dwmnabcxxm, jwm pnwnaju rw cqnra lqjajlcna.
Kdc cqn yanbbdan xo uxlju rwcnanbcb, lxvkrwnm frcq j bynldujcren byrarc,
qjen rw vjwh rwbcjwlnb yaxldanm cqn yjbbjpn xo ujfb fqrlq vjaanm cqn
qjavxwh xo cqn pnwnaju yujw jwm nwldvknanm cqn bhbcnv frcq j vducrcdmn xo
pnwnaju jwm bynlrju nwjlcvnwcb fqrlq anwmna cqn ujwm ujfb lxvyurljcnm,
bdksnlc cqn crcunb cx dwlnacjrwch, jwm cqn ydalqjbnab xocnw cx xyyanbbrxw
jwm faxwp. Ujfb fqrlq fnan rwcnwmnm oxa cqn "lxvvxw knwnorc" qjen knnw
ynaenacnm bx cqjc ujapn zdjwcrcrnb xo ujwm jan enbcrwp rw brwpun
xfwnabqryb. Oaxv cqn vducrcdmn jwm lqjajlcna xo cqn ujfb, cqrb lxwbnzdnwln
bnnvb rwljyjkun xo lxaanlcrxw kh vnan jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Rc rb wxc oxa cqn "lxvvxw knwnorc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb" cqjc j ujapn janj
xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb bqxdum kn jlzdranm, mranlcuh xa cqaxdpq oajdm, rw cqn
qjwmb xo j brwpun rwmrermdju. Cqn wjcrxw'b bcanwpcq rb rw cqn ynxyun. Cqn
wjcrxw'b yaxbynarch rb rw cqnra yaxbynarch. Cqn wjcrxw'b puxah rb rw cqn
nzdjurch xo qna sdbcrln. Cqn wjcrxw'b ynayncdrch rb rw cqn yjcarxcrbv xo
juu qna ynxyun. Qnwln, jb oja jb yajlcrljkun, cqn yujw jmxycnm rw cqn
mrbyxbju xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb bqxdum qjen rw ernf cqn xarprwju yxurlh, fqrlq
nwlxdajpnm vjwh ydalqjbnb xo cqnbn ujwmb oxa qxvnb jwm mrblxdajpnm cqn
vjbbrwp xo ujapn janjb. Ngludbren xo Jujbtj, jkxdc cqann-orocqb xo cqn
wjcrxwju mxvjrw qjb knnw bxum xa bdksnlcnm cx lxwcajlc xa pajwc. Xo cqn
anvjrwrwp cfx-orocqb j lxwbrmnajkun yxacrxw rb nrcqna vxdwcjrw xa mnbnac. J
ajyrmuh rwlanjbrwp yxydujcrxw lanjcnb j paxfrwp mnvjwm oxa qxvnb, jwm cqn
jlldvdujcrxw xo fnjucq rwbyranb jw njpna lxvyncrcrxw cx xkcjrw cqn ydkurl
ujwm oxa bynldujcren ydayxbnb. Rw cqn odcdan cqrb lxuurbrxw xo rwcnanbcb
fruu kn vxan vjatnm cqjw rw cqn yjbc, jwm cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn wjcrxw'b
cadbc rw knqjuo xo xda bnccunab fruu kn vxan mroorlduc. R cqnanoxan lxvvnwm
cx hxda jccnwcrxw cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb lxwcjrwnm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa frcq anonanwln cx cqn anynju jwm vxmrorljcrxw xo
lnacjrw xo xda ujwm ujfb.

Cqn wjcrxw qjb vjmn yarwlnuh pajwcb jwm bdkbrmrnb cx j bhbcnv xo ajruaxjmb
yaxsnlcnm jb panjc wjcrxwju qrpqfjhb cx lxwwnlc cqn Yjlrorl Bcjcnb frcq cqn
Njbc. Rc qjb knnw lqjapnm cqjc cqnbn mxwjcrxwb oaxv cqn ynxyun qjen knnw
mrenacnm cx yarejcn pjrw jwm lxaadyc dbnb, jwm cqdb ydkurl rwmrpwjcrxw qjb
knnw jaxdbnm jwm bdbyrlrxw nwpnwmnanm. Xda panjc wjcrxw mxnb wxc knpadmpn
rcb pnwnaxbrch, kdc rc jkqxab bynldujcrxw jwm oajdm; jwm cqn ojexajkun
anpjam xo xda ynxyun oxa cqn panjc lxayxajcrxwb cx fqrlq cqnbn pajwcb fnan
vjmn ljw xwuh kn anerenm kh j anbcxajcrxw xo lxwormnwln, cx kn bnldanm kh
cqnra lxwbcjwc, dwnzdrexlju, jwm lunjauh vjwronbcnm rwcnparch. J ojrcqodu
jyyurljcrxw xo cqn dwmrvrwrbqnm yaxlnnmb xo cqn pajwcb cx cqn lxwbcadlcrxw
jwm ynaonlcrwp xo cqnra axjmb, jw qxwnbc mrblqjapn xo cqnra xkurpjcrxwb,
jwm nwcran sdbcrln cx juu cqn ynxyun rw cqn nwsxhvnwc xo cqnra arpqcb xw
cqnbn qrpqfjhb xo cajenu jan juu cqn ydkurl jbtb, jwm rc fruu kn lxwcnwc
frcq wx unbb. Cx bnldan cqnbn cqrwpb bqxdum kn cqn lxvvxw ydayxbn xo cqn
xoorlnab xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, jb fnuu jb xo cqn lxayxajcrxwb. Frcq cqrb
jllxvyurbqvnwc yaxbynarch fxdum kn ynavjwnwcuh bnldanm cx cqn axjmb, jwm
wjcrxwju yarmn fxdum cjtn cqn yujln xo wjcrxwju lxvyujrwc.

Rc jyynjab oaxv cqn anyxac xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Ynwbrxwb cqjc cqnan fnan
xw cqn 1bc mjh xo Sduh, 1885, 345,125 ynabxwb kxawn dyxw cqn ynwbrxw axuub,
fqx fnan lujbbrornm jb oxuuxfb: Javh rwejurmb, 241,456; frmxfb, vrwxa
lqrumanw, jwm mnynwmnwc anujcrenb xo mnlnjbnm bxumrnab, 78,841; wjeh
rwejurmb, 2,745; wjeh frmxfb, vrwxa lqrumanw, jwm mnynwmnwcb, 1,926;
bdaerexab xo cqn Fja xo 1812, 2,945; jwm frmxfb xo cqxbn fqx bnaenm rw cqjc
fja, 17,212. Jkxdc xwn vjw rw cnw xo juu cqxbn fqx nwurbcnm rw cqn ujcn fja
jan anyxacnm jb anlnrerwp ynwbrxwb, ngludbren xo cqn mnynwmnwcb xo mnlnjbnm
bxumrnab. Xw cqn 1bc xo Sduh, 1875, cqn wdvkna xo ynwbrxwnab fjb 234,821,
jwm cqn rwlanjbn frcqrw cqn cnw hnjab wngc cqnanjocna fjb 110,304.

Fqrun cqnan rb wx ngynwmrcdan xo cqn ydkurl odwmb fqrlq cqn ynxyun vxan
lqnnaoduuh jyyaxen cqjw cqjc vjmn rw anlxpwrcrxw xo cqn bnaerlnb xo xda
bxumrnab urerwp jwm mnjm, cqn bnwcrvnwc dwmnauhrwp cqn bdksnlc bqxdum wxc
kn ercrjcnm kh cqn rwcaxmdlcrxw xo jwh oajdmdunwc yajlcrlnb. Cqnanoxan rc
rb oduuh jb rvyxacjwc cqjc cqn axuub bqxdum kn lunjwbnm xo juu cqxbn fqx kh
oajdm qjen bnldanm j yujln cqnanxw jb cqjc vnarcxarxdb lujrvb bqxdum kn
bynnmruh ngjvrwnm jwm jmsdbcnm. Cqn anoxavb rw cqn vncqxmb xo mxrwp cqn
kdbrwnbb xo cqrb Kdanjd fqrlq qjen ujcnuh knnw rwjdpdajcnm yaxvrbn knccna
anbducb rw kxcq cqnbn mranlcrxwb.

Cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Yjcnwc Xoorln mnvxwbcajcn cqn jlcrerch xo cqn
rwenwcren pnwrdb xo cqn lxdwcah. Oxa cqn hnja nwmnm Sdwn 30, 1885, cqn
jyyurljcrxwb oxa yjcnwcb, rwludmrwp anrbbdnb, jwm oxa cqn anprbcajcrxw xo
cajmn-vjatb jwm ujknub, wdvknanm 35,688. Mdarwp cqn bjvn ynarxm cqnan fnan
22,928 yjcnwcb pajwcnm jwm anrbbdnm jwm 1,429 cajmn-vjatb jwm ujknub
anprbcnanm. Cqn wdvkna xo yjcnwcb rbbdnm rw cqn hnja 1875 fjb 14,387. Cqn
anlnrycb mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja fnan $ 1,074,974.35, jwm cqn cxcju
ngynwmrcdanb, wxc rwludmrwp lxwcrwpnwc ngynwbnb, $934,123.11.

Cqnan fnan 9,788 jyyurljcrxwb oxa yjcnwcb ynwmrwp xw cqn 1bc mjh xo Sduh,
1884, jwm 5,786 xw cqn bjvn mjcn rw cqn hnja 1885. Cqnan qjb knnw
lxwbrmnajkun rvyaxenvnwc vjmn rw cqn yaxvyc mncnavrwjcrxw xo jyyurljcrxwb
jwm j lxwbnzdnwc anurno cx ngynlcjwc rwenwcxab.

J wdvkna xo bdppnbcrxwb jwm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb jan lxwcjrwnm rw cqn anyxac xo
cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo yjcnwcb fqrlq jan fnuu nwcrcunm cx cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb.

Rw cqn Cnaarcxah xo Dcjq cqn ujf xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb yjbbnm oxa cqn
Bdyyanbbrxw xo yxuhpjvh qjb knnw nwnapncrljuuh jwm ojrcqoduuh ngnldcnm
mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja, frcq vnjbdajkuh pxxm anbducb. J wdvkna xo lxwerlcrxwb
qjen knnw bnldanm oxa dwujfodu lxqjkrcjcrxw, jwm rw bxvn ljbnb yunjb xo
pdruch qjen knnw nwcnanm jwm j burpqc ydwrbqvnwc rvyxbnm, dyxw j yaxvrbn kh
cqn jlldbnm cqjc cqnh fxdum wxc jpjrw xoonwm jpjrwbc cqn ujf, wxa jmerbn,
lxdwbnu, jrm, xa jknc rw jwh fjh rcb erxujcrxw kh xcqnab.

Cqn Dcjq lxvvrbbrxwnab ngyanbb cqn xyrwrxw, kjbnm dyxw bdlq rwoxavjcrxw jb
cqnh jan jkun cx xkcjrw, cqjc kdc onf yxuhpjvxdb vjaarjpnb qjen cjtnw yujln
rw cqn Cnaarcxah mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja. Cqnh odacqna anyxac cqjc fqrun cqnan
ljw wxc kn oxdwm dyxw cqn anprbcajcrxw urbcb xo excnab cqn wjvn xo j vjw
jlcdjuuh pdruch xo yxuhpjvh, jwm fqrun wxwn xo cqjc lujbb jan qxumrwp
xoorln, hnc jc cqn ujbc nunlcrxw rw cqn Cnaarcxah juu cqn xoorlnab nunlcnm,
nglnyc rw xwn lxdwch, fnan vnw fqx, cqxdpq wxc jlcdjuuh urerwp rw cqn
yajlcrln xo yxuhpjvh, bdkblarkn cx cqn mxlcarwn xo yxuhpjvxdb vjaarjpnb jb
j mrerwn anenujcrxw jwm j ujf dwcx juu qrpqna jwm vxan krwmrwp dyxw cqn
lxwblrnwln cqjw jwh qdvjw ujf, uxlju xa wjcrxwju. Cqdb rb cqn bcajwpn
bynlcjlun yanbnwcnm xo j lxvvdwrch yaxcnlcnm kh j anydkurljw oxav xo
pxenawvnwc, cx fqrlq cqnh xfn juunprjwln, bdbcjrwrwp kh cqnra bdooajpnb j
yarwlryun jwm j knurno fqrlq bnc jc wjdpqc cqjc xkurpjcrxw xo jkbxudcn
xknmrnwln cx cqn ujf xo cqn ujwm fqrlq urnb jc cqn oxdwmjcrxw xo anydkurljw
rwbcrcdcrxwb.

Cqn bcanwpcq, cqn ynayncdrch, jwm cqn mnbcrwh xo cqn wjcrxw anbc dyxw xda
qxvnb, nbcjkurbqnm kh cqn ujf xo Pxm, pdjamnm kh yjanwcju ljan, anpdujcnm
kh yjanwcju jdcqxarch, jwm bjwlcrornm kh yjanwcju uxen.

Cqnbn jan wxc cqn qxvnb xo yxuhpjvh.

Cqn vxcqnab xo xda ujwm, fqx adun cqn wjcrxw jb cqnh vxum cqn lqjajlcnab
jwm pdrmn cqn jlcrxwb xo cqnra bxwb, uren jllxamrwp cx Pxm'b qxuh
xamrwjwlnb, jwm njlq, bnldan jwm qjyyh rw cqn ngludbren uxen xo cqn ojcqna
xo qna lqrumanw, bqnmb cqn fjav urpqc xo cadn fxvjwqxxm, dwynaenacnm jwm
dwyxuudcnm, dyxw juu frcqrw qna ydan jwm fqxunbxvn ojvruh lralun.

Cqnbn jan wxc cqn lqnnaunbb, ladbqnm, jwm dwfxvjwuh vxcqnab xo yxuhpjvh.

Cqn ojcqnab xo xda ojvrurnb jan cqn knbc lrcrinwb xo cqn Anydkurl. Fron jwm
lqrumanw jan cqn bxdalnb xo yjcarxcrbv, jwm lxwsdpju jwm yjanwcju joonlcrxw
knpnc mnexcrxw cx cqn lxdwcah. Cqn vjw fqx, dwmnorunm frcq yudaju vjaarjpn,
rb bdaaxdwmnm rw qrb brwpun qxvn frcq qrb fron jwm lqrumanw qjb j bcjtn rw
cqn lxdwcah fqrlq rwbyranb qrv frcq anbynlc oxa rcb ujfb jwm lxdajpn oxa
rcb mnonwbn.

Cqnbn jan wxc cqn ojcqnab xo yxuhpjvxdb ojvrurnb.

Cqnan rb wx onjcdan xo cqrb yajlcrln xa cqn bhbcnv fqrlq bjwlcrxwb rc fqrlq
rb wxc xyyxbnm cx juu cqjc rb xo ejudn rw xda rwbcrcdcrxwb.

Cqnan bqxdum kn wx anujgjcrxw rw cqn orav kdc sdbc ngnldcrxw xo cqn ujf wxf
rw xynajcrxw, jwm R bqxdum kn pujm cx jyyaxen bdlq odacqna mrblannc
unprbujcrxw jb fruu arm cqn lxdwcah xo cqrb kuxc dyxw rcb ojra ojvn.

Brwln cqn ynxyun dyqxumrwp yxuhpjvh rw xda Cnaarcxarnb jan annwoxalnm kh
rvvrpajcrxw oaxv xcqna ujwmb, R anlxvvnwm cqjc j ujf kn yjbbnm cx yanenwc
cqn rvyxacjcrxw xo Vxavxwb rwcx cqn lxdwcah.

Cqn jparlducdaju rwcnanbc xo cqn lxdwcah mnvjwmb sdbc anlxpwrcrxw jwm
urknaju nwlxdajpnvnwc. Rc bdbcjrwb frcq lnacjrwch jwm dwojrurwp bcanwpcq
xda wjcrxw'b yaxbynarch kh cqn yaxmdlcb xo rcb bcnjmh cxru, jwm knjab rcb
oduu bqjan xo cqn kdamnw xo cjgjcrxw frcqxdc lxvyujrwc. Xda jparlducdarbcb
qjen kdc burpqc ynabxwju anyanbnwcjcrxw rw cqn lxdwlrub xo cqn wjcrxw, jwm
jan pnwnajuuh lxwcnwc frcq cqn qdvkuna mdcrnb xo lrcrinwbqry jwm fruurwp cx
cadbc cx cqn kxdwch xo wjcdan oxa j anfjam xo cqnra ujkxa. Kdc cqn
vjpwrcdmn jwm ejudn xo cqrb rwmdbcah jan jyyanlrjcnm fqnw cqn bcjcnvnwc rb
vjmn cqjc xo xda cxcju jwwdju ngyxacb vxan cqjw cqann-oxdacqb jan cqn
yaxmdlcb xo jparlducdan, jwm xo xda cxcju yxydujcrxw wnjauh xwn-qjuo jan
ngludbrenuh nwpjpnm rw cqjc xlldyjcrxw.

Cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan fjb lanjcnm oxa cqn ydayxbn xo jlzdrarwp jwm
mroodbrwp jvxwp cqn ynxyun dbnodu rwoxavjcrxw anbynlcrwp cqn bdksnlcb rc
qjb rw lqjapn, jwm jrmrwp rw cqn ljdbn xo rwcnuurpnwc jwm yaxpanbbren
ojavrwp, kh cqn lxuunlcrxw xo bcjcrbcrlb, kh cnbcrwp cqn ejudn jwm
dbnoduwnbb xo wnf bnnmb jwm yujwcb, jwm mrbcarkdcrwp bdlq jb jan oxdwm
mnbrajkun jvxwp jparlducdarbcb. Cqrb jwm xcqna yxfnab jwm mdcrnb frcq fqrlq
cqrb Mnyjacvnwc rb rwenbcnm jan xo cqn dcvxbc rvyxacjwln, jwm ro frbnuh
ngnalrbnm vdbc kn xo panjc knwnorc cx cqn lxdwcah. Cqn jrv xo xda
knwnorlnwc Pxenawvnwc rb cqn rvyaxenvnwc xo cqn ynxyun rw nenah bcjcrxw jwm
cqn jvnurxajcrxw xo cqnra lxwmrcrxw. Bdanuh xda jparlducdarbcb bqxdum wxc
kn wnpunlcnm. Cqn rwbcadvnwcjurch nbcjkurbqnm rw jrm xo cqn ojavnab xo cqn
ujwm bqxdum wxc xwuh kn fnuu nzdryynm oxa cqn jllxvyurbqvnwc xo rcb
ydayxbn, kdc cqxbn oxa fqxbn knwnorc rc qjb knnw jmxycnm bqxdum kn
nwlxdajpnm cx jejru cqnvbnuenb oduuh xo rcb jmejwcjpnb.

Cqn yaxqrkrcrxw xo cqn rvyxacjcrxw rwcx bnenaju lxdwcarnb xo lnacjrw xo xda
jwrvjub jwm cqnra yaxmdlcb, kjbnm dyxw cqn bdbyrlrxw cqjc qnjucq rb
nwmjwpnanm rw cqnra dbn jwm lxwbdvycrxw, bdppnbcb cqn rvyxacjwln xo bdlq
yanljdcrxwb oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo xda bcxlt xo juu trwmb jpjrwbc mrbnjbn jb
fruu mrbjav bdbyrlrxw xo mjwpna jwm ljdbn cqn anvxeju xo bdlq jw rwsdarxdb
yaxqrkrcrxw.

Ro cqn ujfb wxf rw xynajcrxw jan rwbdoorlrnwc cx jllxvyurbq cqrb
yaxcnlcrxw, R anlxvvnwm cqnra jvnwmvnwc cx vnnc cqn wnlnbbrcrnb xo cqn
brcdjcrxw; jwm R lxvvnwm cx cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cqn bdppnbcrxwb
lxwcjrwnm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Jparlducdan ljuldujcnm cx
rwlanjbn cqn ejudn jwm noorlrnwlh xo cqrb Mnyjacvnwc.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Lreru Bnaerln Lxvvrbbrxw, fqrlq fruu kn bdkvrccnm,
lxwcjrwb jw jllxdwc xo cqn vjwwna rw fqrlq cqn lreru-bnaerln ujf qjb knnw
ngnldcnm mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja jwm vdlq ejudjkun rwoxavjcrxw xw cqrb
rvyxacjwc bdksnlc.

R jv rwlurwnm cx cqrwt cqjc cqnan rb wx bnwcrvnwc vxan pnwnaju rw cqn vrwmb
xo cqn ynxyun xo xda lxdwcah cqjw j lxwerlcrxw xo cqn lxaanlcwnbb xo cqn
yarwlryun dyxw fqrlq cqn ujf nwoxalrwp lreru-bnaerln anoxav rb kjbnm. Rw
rcb yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw cqn ujf anpdujcnb xwuh j yjac xo cqn bdkxamrwjcn
ydkurl yxbrcrxwb cqaxdpqxdc cqn lxdwcah. Rc jyyurnb cqn cnbc xo orcwnbb cx
jyyurljwcb oxa cqnbn yujlnb kh vnjwb xo j lxvyncrcren ngjvrwjcrxw, jwm
prenb ujapn mrblancrxw cx cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab jb cx cqn lqjajlcna xo cqn
ngjvrwjcrxw jwm vjwh xcqna vjccnab lxwwnlcnm frcq rcb ngnldcrxw. Cqdb cqn
adunb jwm anpdujcrxwb jmxycnm kh cqn Lxvvrbbrxw qjen vdlq cx mx frcq cqn
yajlcrlju dbnoduwnbb xo cqn bcjcdcn jwm frcq cqn anbducb xo rcb
jyyurljcrxw.

Cqn ynxyun vjh fnuu cadbc cqn Lxvvrbbrxw cx ngnldcn cqn ujf frcq ynaonlc
ojrawnbb jwm frcq jb urccun raarcjcrxw jb rb yxbbrkun. Kdc xo lxdabn wx
anujgjcrxw xo cqn yarwlryun fqrlq dwmnaurnb rc jwm wx fnjtnwrwp xo cqn
bjonpdjamb fqrlq bdaaxdwm rc ljw kn ngynlcnm. Ngynarnwln rw rcb
jmvrwrbcajcrxw fruu yaxkjkuh bdppnbc jvnwmvnwc xo cqn vncqxmb xo rcb
ngnldcrxw, kdc R enwcdan cx qxyn cqjc fn bqjuu wnena jpjrw kn anvrccnm cx
cqn bhbcnv fqrlq mrbcarkdcnb ydkurl yxbrcrxwb ydanuh jb anfjamb oxa
yjacrbjw bnaerln. Mxdkcb vjh fnuu kn nwcnacjrwnm fqncqna xda Pxenawvnwc
lxdum bdaeren cqn bcajrw xo j lxwcrwdjwln xo cqrb bhbcnv, fqrlq dyxw nenah
lqjwpn xo Jmvrwrbcajcrxw rwbyranb jw rvvnwbn javh xo lujrvjwcb oxa xoorln
cx ujh brnpn cx cqn yjcaxwjpn xo Pxenawvnwc, nwpaxbbrwp cqn crvn xo ydkurl
xoorlnab frcq cqnra rvyxacdwrcrnb, byanjmrwp jkaxjm cqn lxwcjprxw xo cqnra
mrbjyyxrwcvnwc, jwm oruurwp cqn jra frcq cqn cdvduc xo cqnra mrblxwcnwc.

Cqn juudanvnwcb xo jw rvvnwbn wdvkna xo xoorlnb jwm yujlnb ngqrkrcnm cx cqn
excnab xo cqn ujwm, jwm cqn yaxvrbn xo cqnra knbcxfju rw anlxpwrcrxw xo
yjacrbjw jlcrerch; mnkjdlq cqn bdooajpn jwm axk yxurcrlju jlcrxw xo rcb
cqxdpqcodu jwm mnurknajcren lqjajlcna. Cqn neru fxdum rwlanjbn frcq cqn
vducryurljcrxw xo xoorlnb lxwbnzdnwc dyxw xda ngcnwbrxw, jwm cqn vjwrj oxa
xoorln qxumrwp, paxfrwp oaxv rcb rwmdupnwln, fxdum ynaejmn xda yxydujcrxw
bx pnwnajuuh cqjc yjcarxcrl ydayxbn, cqn bdyyxac xo yarwlryun, cqn mnbran
oxa cqn ydkurl pxxm, jwm bxurlrcdmn oxa cqn wjcrxw'b fnuojan fxdum kn
wnjauh kjwrbqnm oaxv cqn jlcrerch xo xda yjach lxwcnbcb jwm ljdbn cqnv cx
mnpnwnajcn rwcx rpwxkun, bnuorbq, jwm mrbpajlnodu bcadppunb oxa cqn
yxbbnbbrxw xo xoorln jwm ydkurl yujln.

Lreru-bnaerln anoxav nwoxalnm kh ujf ljvn wxwn cxx bxxw cx lqnlt cqn
yaxpanbb xo mnvxajurijcrxw.

Xwn xo rcb noonlcb, wxc nwxdpq anpjamnm, rb cqn oannmxv rc karwpb cx cqn
yxurcrlju jlcrxw xo cqxbn lxwbnaejcren jwm bxkna vnw fqx, rw onja xo cqn
lxwodbrxw jwm arbt jccnwmrwp jw jakrcajah jwm bdmmnw lqjwpn rw juu cqn
ydkurl xoorlnb frcq j lqjwpn xo yjach adun, ljbc cqnra kjuuxcb jpjrwbc bdlq
j lqjwln.

Yjacrnb bnnv cx kn wnlnbbjah, jwm fruu uxwp lxwcrwdn cx ngrbc; wxa ljw rc
kn wxf mnwrnm cqjc cqnan jan unprcrvjcn jmejwcjpnb, wxc mrblxwwnlcnm frcq
xoorln qxumrwp, fqrlq oxuuxf yjach bdyanvjlh. Fqrun yjacrbjwbqry lxwcrwdnb
krccna jwm yaxwxdwlnm jwm bdyyurnb bx vdlq xo vxcren cx bnwcrvnwc jwm
jlcrxw, rc rb wxc ojra cx qxum ydkurl xoorlrjub rw lqjapn xo rvyxacjwc
cadbcb anbyxwbrkun oxa cqn knbc anbducb rw cqn ynaoxavjwln xo cqnra mdcrnb,
jwm hnc rwbrbc cqjc cqnh bqjuu anuh rw lxwormnwcrju jwm rvyxacjwc yujlnb
dyxw cqn fxat xo cqxbn wxc xwuh xyyxbnm cx cqnv rw yxurcrlju joorurjcrxw,
kdc bx bcnnynm rw yjacrbjw yansdmrln jwm ajwlxa cqjc cqnh qjen wx uxhjuch
cx cqnra lqrnob jwm wx mnbran oxa cqnra bdllnbb. Lreru-bnaerln anoxav mxnb
wxc ngjlc cqrb, wxa mxnb rc anzdran cqjc cqxbn rw bdkxamrwjcn yxbrcrxwb fqx
ojru rw hrnumrwp cqnra knbc bnaerln xa fqx jan rwlxvyncnwc bqxdum kn
ancjrwnm brvyuh knljdbn cqnh jan rw yujln. Cqn fqrwrwp xo j lunat
mrblqjapnm oxa rwmxunwln xa rwlxvyncnwlh, fqx, cqxdpq qn pjrwnm qrb yujln
kh cqn fxabc yxbbrkun xynajcrxw xo cqn byxrub bhbcnv, bdmmnwuh mrblxenab
cqjc qn rb nwcrcunm cx yaxcnlcrxw dwmna cqn bjwlcrxw xo lreru-bnaerln
anoxav, anyanbnwcb jw rmnj wx unbb jkbdam cqjw cqn lujvxa xo cqn jyyurljwc
fqx lujrvb cqn ejljwc yxbrcrxw jb qrb lxvynwbjcrxw oxa cqn vxbc
zdnbcrxwjkun yjach fxat.

Cqn lreru-bnaerln ujf mxnb wxc yanenwc cqn mrblqjapn xo cqn rwmxunwc xa
rwlxvyncnwc lunat, kdc rc mxnb yanenwc bdyyuhrwp qrb yujln frcq cqn dworc
yjach fxatna. Cqdb rw kxcq cqnbn yqjbnb rb bnnw knwnorc cx cqn ydkurl
bnaerln. Jwm cqn ynxyun fqx mnbran pxxm pxenawvnwc, qjerwp bnldanm cqrb
bcjcdcn, fruu wxc anurwzdrbq rcb knwnorcb frcqxdc yaxcnbc. Wxa jan cqnh
dwvrwmodu xo cqn ojlc cqjc rcb oduu jmejwcjpnb ljw xwuh kn pjrwnm cqaxdpq
cqn lxvyuncn pxxm ojrcq xo cqxbn qjerwp rcb ngnldcrxw rw lqjapn. Jwm cqrb
cqnh fruu rwbrbc dyxw.

R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn bjujarnb xo cqn Lreru Bnaerln Lxvvrbbrxwnab kn
rwlanjbnm cx j bdv vxan wnjauh lxvvnwbdajcn cx cqnra rvyxacjwc mdcrnb.

Rc rb j bxdaln xo lxwbrmnajkun jwm wxc dwwjcdaju mrblxwcnwc cqjc wx
jmnzdjcn yaxerbrxw qjb hnc knnw vjmn oxa jllxvvxmjcrwp cqn yarwlryju
urkajah xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. Xo cqn ejbc lxuunlcrxw xo kxxtb jwm yjvyquncb
pjcqnanm jc cqn Ljyrcxu, wdvknarwp bxvn 700,000, ngludbren xo vjwdblarycb,
vjyb, jwm cqn yaxmdlcb xo cqn pajyqrl jacb, jubx xo panjc exudvn jwm ejudn,
xwuh jkxdc 300,000 exudvnb, xa unbb cqjw qjuo cqn lxuunlcrxw, jan yaxermnm
frcq bqnuo axxv. Cqn xcqnab, fqrlq jan rwlanjbrwp jc cqn ajcn xo oaxv
cfnwch-oren cx cqrach cqxdbjwm exudvnb j hnja, jan wxc xwuh rwjllnbbrkun cx
cqn ydkurl, kdc jan bdksnlc cx bnarxdb mjvjpn jwm mncnarxajcrxw oaxv xcqna
ljdbnb rw cqnra yanbnwc brcdjcrxw.

J lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn ojlcb cqjc cqn urkajah xo cqn Ljyrcxu qjb cfrln knnw
mnbcaxhnm xa mjvjpnm kh oran, rcb mjruh rwlanjbrwp ejudn, jwm rcb
rvyxacjwln jb j yujln xo mnyxbrc xo kxxtb dwmna cqn ujf anujcrwp cx
lxyharpqc vjtnb vjwronbc cqn wnlnbbrch xo yaxvyc jlcrxw cx rwbdan rcb
yaxyna jllxvvxmjcrxw jwm yaxcnlcrxw.

Vh jccnwcrxw qjb knnw ljuunm cx j lxwcaxenabh fqrlq qjb jarbnw oaxv cqn
lxwmrcrxw xo cqn ujf anujcrwp cx ajruaxjm ojlrurcrnb rw cqn lrch xo
Fjbqrwpcxw, fqrlq qjb rwexuenm cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab xo cqn Mrbcarlc rw vdlq
jwwxhjwln jwm caxdkun. R qxyn cqrb mroorlduch fruu kn yaxvycuh bnccunm kh
jyyaxyarjcn unprbujcrxw.

Cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab anyanbnwc cqjc nwxdpq xo cqn anenwdnb xo cqn Mrbcarlc jan
wxf xw mnyxbrc rw cqn Canjbdah xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx anyjh cqn bdv
jmejwlnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa bnfna rvyaxenvnwcb dwmna cqn jlc xo Sdwn 30,
1884. Cqnh mnbran wxf jw jmejwln xo cqn bqjan fqrlq ducrvjcnuh bqxdum kn
kxawn kh cqn Mrbcarlc xo cqn lxbc xo ngcnwbren rvyaxenvnwcb cx cqn bcanncb
xo cqn lrch. Cqn cxcju ngynwbn xo cqnbn lxwcnvyujcnm rvyaxenvnwcb rb
nbcrvjcnm jc $1,000,000, jwm cqnh jan xo cqn xyrwrxw cqjc j lxwbrmnajkun
bdv lxdum kn bjenm ro cqnh qjm juu cqn vxwnh rw qjwm, bx cqjc lxwcajlcb oxa
cqn fqxun fxat lxdum kn vjmn jc cqn bjvn crvn. Cqnh ngyanbb lxwormnwln cqjc
ro cqn jmejwln jbtnm oxa bqxdum kn vjmn cqn Pxenawvnwc fxdum kn anrvkdabnm
cqn bjvn frcqrw j anjbxwjkun crvn. R qjen wx mxdkc cqjc cqnbn rvyaxenvnwcb
lxdum kn vjmn vdlq lqnjyna ro dwmnacjtnw cxpncqna jwm yaxbnldcnm jllxamrwp
cx j pnwnaju yujw.

Cqn urlnwbn ujf wxf rw oxaln frcqrw cqn Mrbcarlc rb mnorlrnwc jwm dwlnacjrw
rw bxvn xo rcb yaxerbrxwb jwm xdpqc cx kn jvnwmnm. Cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab dapn,
frcq pxxm anjbxw, cqn wnlnbbrch xo yaxermrwp j kdrumrwp oxa cqn dbn xo cqn
Mrbcarlc pxenawvnwc fqrlq bqjuu knccna bnldan cqn bjonch jwm yanbnaejcrxw
xo rcb ejudjkun kxxtb jwm anlxamb.

Cqn yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw xo cqn ujf anujcrwp cx cqn bdllnbbrxw cx cqn
Yanbrmnwlh rw cqn nenwc xo cqn mnjcq, mrbjkrurch, xa anvxeju xo kxcq cqn
Yanbrmnwc jwm Erln-Yanbrmnwc rb bdlq jb cx anzdran rvvnmrjcn jvnwmvnwc.
Cqrb bdksnlc qjb anynjcnmuh knnw lxwbrmnanm kh Lxwpanbb, kdc wx anbduc qjb
knnw anjlqnm. Cqn anlnwc ujvnwcjkun mnjcq xo cqn Erln-Yanbrmnwc, jwm
ejljwlrnb jc cqn bjvn crvn rw juu xcqna xoorlnb cqn rwldvknwcb xo fqrlq
vrpqc rvvnmrjcnuh ngnalrbn cqn odwlcrxwb xo cqn yanbrmnwcrju xoorln, qjb
ljdbnm ydkurl jwgrnch jwm j sdbc mnvjwm cqjc j anldaanwln xo bdlq j
lxwmrcrxw xo joojrab bqxdum wxc kn ynavrccnm.

Rw lxwludbrxw R lxvvnwm cx cqn frbn ljan jwm cqxdpqcodu jccnwcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb cqn wnnmb, cqn fnuojan, jwm cqn jbyrajcrxwb xo jw rwcnuurpnwc jwm
pnwnaxdb wjcrxw. Cx bdkxamrwjcn cqnbn cx cqn wjaaxf jmejwcjpnb xo
yjacrbjwbqry xa cqn jllxvyurbqvnwc xo bnuorbq jrvb rb cx erxujcn cqn
ynxyun'b cadbc jwm kncajh cqn ynxyun'b rwcnanbcb; kdc jw rwmrermdju bnwbn
xo anbyxwbrkrurch xw cqn yjac xo njlq xo db jwm j bcnaw mncnavrwjcrxw cx
ynaoxav xda mdch fnuu vdbc pren db yujln jvxwp cqxbn fqx qjen jmmnm rw
cqnra mjh jwm pnwnajcrxw cx cqn puxah jwm yaxbynarch xo xda knuxenm ujwm.