Zu znk Iutmxkyy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky:

Znk vxkyktz gyykshrgmk ul znk rkmoyrgzobk hxgtin ul uax Mubkxtsktz uiiaxy gz g
zosk cnkt znk otzkxkyzy ul uax vkuvrk gtj znk tkkjy ul znk iuatzxe mobk
kyvkiogr vxusotktik zu znk iutjozout ul uax luxkomt xkrgzouty gtj znk
kdomktioky ul uax tgzoutgr lotgtiky. Znk xkvuxzy ul znk nkgjy ul znk ykbkxgr
gjsotoyzxgzobk Jkvgxzsktzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz larre gtj vrgotre kdnohoz cngz
ngy hkkt giiusvroynkj coznot znk yiuvk ul znkox xkyvkizobk jazoky gtj vxkyktz
yain xkiussktjgzouty lux znk hkzzkxsktz ul uax iuatzxe'y iutjozout gy
vgzxouzoi gtj otzkrromktz rghux gtj uhykxbgzout yammkyz.

O znkxkluxk jkks se kdkiazobk jaze gjkwagzkre vkxluxskj gz znoy zosk he
vxkyktzotm zu znk Iutmxkyy znk osvuxzgtz vngyky ul uax yozagzout gy xkrgzkj zu
uax otzkxiuaxyk cozn luxkomt tgzouty gtj g yzgzksktz ul znk lotgtiogr vxuhrksy
cnoin iutlxutz ay, usozzotm, kdikvz gy znke gxk xkrgzkj zu znkyk zuvoiy, gte
xklkxktik zu jkvgxzsktzgr uvkxgzouty.

O kgxtkyzre otbozk, nuckbkx, tuz utre znk igxklar iutyojkxgzout haz znk
ykbkxkre ixozoigr yixazote ul znk Iutmxkyy gtj se lkrruc-iuatzxeskt zu znk
xkvuxzy iutikxtotm znkyk jkvgxzsktzgr uvkxgzouty. Ol payzre gtj lgoxre
kdgsotkj, znke corr laxtoyn vxuul ul gyyojauay gtj vgotyzgqotm igxk lux znk
vahroi ckrlgxk. O vxkyy znk xkiussktjgzouty znke iutzgot avut znk xkyvkizlar
gzzktzout ul znuyk ingxmkj cozn znk jaze ul rkmoyrgzout, hkigayk O hkrokbk
znkox gjuvzout cuarj vxusuzk znk vkuvrk'y muuj.

He gsktjgzuxe zgxoll rkmoyrgzout ot Pgtagxe rgyz znk Gxmktzotk Xkvahroi,
xkiumtofotm znk bgrak ul znk rgxmk sgxqkz uvktkj zu znk lxkk osvuxzgzout ul
ozy cuury atjkx uax rgyz zgxoll giz, ngy gjsozzkj ikxzgot vxujaizy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky zu ktzxe gz xkjaikj jazoky. Oz oy vrkgyotm zu tuzk zngz znk
klluxzy ck ngbk sgjk zu ktrgxmk znk kdingtmky ul zxgjk ut g yuatj hgyoy ul
sazagr hktkloz gxk ot znoy otyzgtik gvvxkiogzkj he znk iuatzxe lxus cnoin uax
cuurkt lgizuxoky jxgc znkox tkkjlar yavvre ul xgc sgzkxogr.

Znk Soyyouty huatjgxe joyvazk hkzckkt znk Gxmktzotk Xkvahroi gtj Hxgfor,
xklkxxkj zu znk Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gy gxhozxgzux jaxotm znk zkxs
ul se vxkjkikyyux, gtj cnoin cgy yahsozzkj zu sk lux jkzkxsotgzout, xkyarzkj
ot gt gcgxj ot lgbux ul Hxgfor avut znk noyzuxoigr gtj juiasktzgxe kbojktik
vxkyktzkj, znay ktjotm g rutm-vxuzxgizkj iutzxubkxye gtj gmgot jksutyzxgzotm
znk coyjus gtj jkyoxghoroze ul ykzzrotm otzkxtgzoutgr huatjgxe joyvazky he
xkiuaxyk zu lxoktjre gxhozxgzout.

Tkmuzogzouty gxk vxumxkyyotm lux g xkbobgr ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj Inorkgt
Irgosy Iussoyyout, cnuyk cuxq cgy ghxavzre zkxsotgzkj rgyz ekgx he znk
kdvoxgzout ul znk yzovargzkj zosk coznot cnoin gcgxjy iuarj hk sgjk.

Znk xkyasvzout ul yvkiok vgesktzy he Inork oy g yzkv ul mxkgz otzkxkyz gtj
osvuxzgtik huzn ot ozy joxkiz iutykwaktiky avut nkx uct ckrlgxk gtj gy
kbotiotm znk gyiktjktie ul yuatj lotgtiogr vxotiovrky ot utk ul znk suyz
otlraktzogr ul znk Yuazn Gskxoigt Xkvahroiy.

Znk iruyk ul znk susktzuay yzxammrk hkzckkt Inotg gtj Pgvgt, cnork xkrokbotm
znk jovrusgzoi gmktzy ul znoy Mubkxtsktz lxus znk jkroigzk jaze znke atjkxzuuq
gz znk xkwakyz ul huzn iuatzxoky ul xktjkxotm yain ykxboik zu znk yahpkizy ul
koznkx hkrromkxktz coznot znk zkxxozuxogr rosozy ul znk uznkx gy uax tkazxgr
vuyozout vkxsozzkj, jkbkruvkj g juskyzoi iutjozout ot znk Inotkyk Ksvoxk cnoin
ngy igaykj sain gtdokze gtj igrrkj lux vxusvz gtj igxklar gzzktzout. Koznkx gy
g xkyarz ul g ckgq iutzxur he znk iktzxgr Mubkxtsktz ubkx znk vxubotiogr
gjsotoyzxgzouty, lurrucotm g josotazout ul zxgjozoutgr mubkxtsktzgr gaznuxoze
atjkx znk yzxkyy ul gt ubkxcnkrsotm tgzoutgr joygyzkx, ux gy g sgtolkyzgzout
avut muuj uvvuxzatoze ul znk gbkxyout ul znk Inotkyk vuvargzout zu grr luxkomt
cgey gtj atjkxzgqotmy, znkxk ngbk uiiaxxkj ot cojkre ykvgxgzkj vxubotiky ul
Inotg ykxouay uazhxkgqy ul znk urj lgtgzoigr yvoxoz gmgotyz luxkomtkxy, cnoin,
atinkiqkj he znk ruigr gaznuxozoky, ol tuz gizagrre iuttobkj gz he znks, ngbk
iarsotgzkj ot suh gzzgiqy ut luxkomt soyyoutgxe yzgzouty, igayotm sain
jkyzxaizout ul vxuvkxze gtj gzzktjkj cozn vkxyutgr otpaxoky gy ckrr gy ruyy ul
rolk.

Grznuamn haz utk Gskxoigt iozofkt cgy xkvuxzkj zu ngbk hkkt gizagrre cuatjkj,
gtj grznuamn znk jkyzxaizout ul vxuvkxze sge ngbk lgrrkt suxk nkgbore avut znk
soyyoutgxoky ul uznkx tgzoutgrozoky zngt uax uct, oz vrgotre hknuubkj znoy
Mubkxtsktz zu zgqk znk suyz vxusvz gtj jkiojkj gizout zu magxj gmgotyz yosorgx
ux vkxngvy suxk jxkgjlar igrgsozoky hklgrrotm znk natjxkjy ul Gskxoigt soyyout
yzgzouty cnoin ngbk mxuct av znxuamnuaz znk otzkxoux ul Inotg atjkx znk
zksvkxgzk xark ul zurkxgzout, iayzus, gtj osvkxogr kjoiz. Znk jksgtjy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky gtj uznkx vuckxy lux znk jkmxgjgzout gtj vatoynsktz ul znk
xkyvutyohrk ulloiogry ul znk xkyvkizobk iozoky gtj vxubotiky cnu he tkmrkiz ux
uznkxcoyk ngj vkxsozzkj avxoyotmy, gtj lux znk gjuvzout ul yzkxt skgyaxky he
znk Ksvkxux'y Mubkxtsktz lux znk vxuzkizout ul znk rolk gtj vxuvkxze ul
luxkomtkxy, ckxk lurruckj he znk joymxgik gtj joysoyygr ul ikxzgot vxubotiogr
ulloiogry luatj jkxkroiz ot jaze gtj znk vatoynsktz he jkgzn ul g tashkx ul
znuyk gjpajmkj maorze ul gizagr vgxzoiovgzout ot znk uazxgmky.

Znoy Mubkxtsktz gryu otyoyzkj zngz g yvkiogr Gskxoigt iussoyyout ynuarj boyoz
znk vxubotik cnkxk znk loxyz joyzaxhgtiky uiiaxxkj lux znk vaxvuyk ul
otbkyzomgzout. Znk rgzzkx iussoyyout, luxskj glzkx sain uvvuyozout, ngy mutk
ubkxrgtj lxus Zoktzyot, giiusvgtokj he g yaozghrk Inotkyk kyiuxz, gtj he ozy
jksutyzxgzout ul znk xkgjotkyy gtj ghoroze ul uax Mubkxtsktz zu vxuzkiz ozy
iozofkty corr giz, oz oy hkrokbkj, gy g suyz otlraktzogr jkzkxxktz ul gte
yosorgx uazhxkgqy.

Znk ktkxmkzoi yzkvy ck ngbk znay zgqkt gxk grr znk suxk roqkre zu xkyarz ot
lazaxk yglkze zu uax iozofkty ot Inotg hkigayk znk Osvkxogr Mubkxtsktz oy, O
gs vkxyagjkj, ktzoxkre iutbotikj zngz ck jkyoxk utre znk rohkxze gtj
vxuzkizout ul uax uct iozofkty gtj xkjxkyy lux gte cxutmy znke sge ngbk
yallkxkj, gtj zngz ck ngbk tu arzkxoux jkyomty ux uhpkizy, vurozoigr ux
uznkxcoyk. Inotg corr tuz luxmkz koznkx uax qotjre ykxboik zu nkx iozofkty
jaxotm nkx rgzk cgx tux znk laxznkx lgiz zngz, cnork laxtoynotm grr znk
lgiorozoky gz uax iussgtj zu laxznkx znk tkmuzogzout ul g vkgik hkzckkt nkx
gtj Pgvgt, ck yuamnz tu gjbgtzgmky gtj otzkxvuykj tu iuatykr.

Znk Mubkxtsktzy ul huzn Inotg gtj Pgvgt ngbk, ot yvkiogr joyvgzinky
zxgtysozzkj znxuamn znkox xkyvkizobk jovrusgzoi xkvxkyktzgzobky, kdvxkyykj ot
g suyz vrkgyotm sgttkx znkox mxgzklar gvvxkiogzout ul uax gyyoyzgtik zu znkox
iozofkty jaxotm znk atngvve yzxammrk gtj ul znk bgrak ul uax goj ot vgbotm znk
cge zu znkox xkyasvzout ul vkgiklar xkrgzouty.

Znk iayzusgxe iuxjogr xkrgzouty hkzckkt znoy iuatzxe gtj Lxgtik ngbk hkkt
atjoyzaxhkj, cozn znk kdikvzout zngz g larr kdvrgtgzout ul znk zxkgzsktz ul
Punt R. Cgrrkx he znk kdvkjozoutgxe sorozgxe gaznuxozoky ul Lxgtik yzorr
xksgoty zu hk mobkt. Sx. Cgrrkx, luxskxre Atozkj Yzgzky iutyar gz Zgsgzgb,
xksgotkj ot Sgjgmgyigx glzkx noy zkxs ul ulloik kdvoxkj, gtj cgy gvvgxktzre
yaiikyylar ot vxuiaxotm hayotkyy iutikyyouty lxus znk Nubgy ul mxkgzkx ux rkyy
bgrak. Glzkx znk uiiavgzout ul Zgsgzgb gtj znk jkirgxgzout ul sgxzogr rgc he
znk Lxktin nk cgy gxxkyzkj avut bgxouay ingxmky, gsutm znks zngz ul
iussatoigzotm sorozgxe otluxsgzout zu znk ktksoky ul Lxgtik, cgy zxokj gtj
iutboizkj he g sorozgxe zxohatgr, gtj yktzktikj zu zcktze ekgxy' osvxoyutsktz.

Lurrucotm znk iuaxyk payzolokj he ghatjgtz vxkikjktzy, znoy Mubkxtsktz
xkwakyzkj lxus zngz ul Lxgtik znk xkiuxj ul znk vxuikkjotmy ul znk Lxktin
zxohatgr cnoin xkyarzkj ot Sx. Cgrrkx'y iutjkstgzout. Znoy xkwakyz ngy hkkt
iusvrokj cozn zu znk kdzktz ul yavvreotm g iuve ul znk ulloiogr xkiuxj, lxus
cnoin gvvkgx znk iutyzozazout gtj uxmgtofgzout ul znk iuaxz, znk ingxmky gy
luxsargzkj, gtj znk mktkxgr iuaxyk gtj xkyarz ul znk zxogr, gtj he cnoin oz oy
ynuct zngz znk giiaykj cgy zxokj ot uvkt iuaxz gtj cgy jklktjkj he iuatykr;
haz znk kbojktik gjjaikj ot yavvuxz ul znk ingxmky, cnoin cgy tuz xkikobkj he
znk Lxktin sotoyzkx lux luxkomt gllgoxy zorr znk loxyz ckkq ot Uizuhkx, ngy
znay lgx hkkt coznnkrj, znk Lxktin Mubkxtsktz zgqotm znk mxuatj zngz ozy
vxujaizout ot xkyvutyk zu uax jksgtj cuarj kyzghroyn g hgj vxkikjktz. Znk
klluxzy ul uax gshgyygjux zu vxuiaxk oz, nuckbkx, znuamn osvkjkj he xkiktz
ingtmky ot znk Lxktin sotoyzxe, ngbk tuz hkkt xkrgdkj, gtj oz oy iutlojktzre
kdvkizkj zngz yusk ygzoylgizuxe yurazout ul znk sgzzkx corr ynuxzre hk
xkginkj. Skgtcnork oz gvvkgxy zngz Sx. Cgrrkx'y iutlotksktz ngy kbkxe
grrkbogzout cnoin znk yzgzk ul noy nkgrzn gtj grr znk uznkx ioxiasyzgtiky ul
znk igyk jksgtj ux vkxsoz.

Ot gmxkkghrk iutzxgyz zu znk jollkxktik ghubk tuzkj xkyvkizotm g sgzzkx ul
iussut iutikxt, cnkxk tuznotm oy yuamnz kdikvz yain g sazagrre ygzoylgizuxe
uaziusk gy znk zxak skxozy ul znk igyk xkwaoxk, oy znk xkiktz xkyurazout ul
znk Lxktin Ingshkxy lgbuxotm znk iutirayout ul g vkxsgtktz zxkgze ul
gxhozxgzout hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky.

Gt otbozgzout ngy hkkt kdzktjkj he Lxgtik zu znk Mubkxtsktz gtj vkuvrk ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky zu vgxzoiovgzk ot g mxkgz otzkxtgzoutgr kdvuyozout gz Vgxoy ot
1900 gy g yaozghrk iussksuxgzout ul znk iruyk ul znoy znk cuxrj'y sgxbkruay
iktzaxe ul vxumxkyy. O nkgxzore xkiussktj ozy giikvzgtik, zumkznkx cozn yain
rkmoyrgzout gy corr gjkwagzkre vxubojk lux g jak xkvxkyktzgzout ul znoy
Mubkxtsktz gtj ozy vkuvrk ut znk uiigyout.

Uax xkrgzouty cozn znk Yzgzky ul znk Mkxsgt Ksvoxk gxk ot yusk gyvkizy zevoigr
ul g iutjozout ul znotmy krykcnkxk luatj ot iuatzxoky cnuyk vxujaizouty gtj
zxgjk gxk yosorgx zu uax uct. Znk iruyk xobgrxoky ul iusvkzotm otjayzxoky; znk
otlraktik ul znk jkrayobk juizxotk zngz znk otzkxtgr jkbkruvsktz ul g tgzout
oy vxusuzkj gtj ozy ckgrzn otixkgykj he g vuroie cnoin, ot atjkxzgqotm zu
xkykxbk ozy nusk sgxqkzy lux znk kdirayobk ayk ul ozy uct vxujaikxy,
tkikyygxore uhyzxaizy znkox ygrky ot luxkomt sgxqkzy gtj vxkbktzy lxkk giikyy
zu znk vxujaizy ul znk cuxrj; znk jkyoxk zu xkzgot zxgjk ot zosk-cuxt xazy,
xkmgxjrkyy ul znk otkduxghrk rgcy ul tkc tkkjy gtj ingtmkj iutjozouty ul
jksgtj gtj yavvre, gtj uax uct ngrzotm zgxjotkyy ot otbozotm g lxkkx kdingtmk
ul iussujozoky, gtj he znoy skgty osvkxorotm uax luuzotm ot znk kdzkxtgr
sgxqkzy tgzaxgrre uvkt zu ay, ngbk ixkgzkj g yozagzout yuskcngz otpaxouay zu
Gskxoigt kdvuxz otzkxkyzy, tuz utre ot Mkxsgte, cnkxk znke gxk vkxngvy suyz
tuzoikghrk, haz ot gjpgiktz iuatzxoky. Znk kdvuxzy gllkizkj gxk rgxmkre
Gskxoigt igzzrk gtj uznkx luuj vxujaizy, znk xkgyut gyyomtkj lux atlgbuxghrk
joyixosotgzout hkotm zngz znkox iutyasvzout oy jkrkzkxouay zu znk vahroi
nkgrzn. Znoy oy grr znk suxk oxxozgzotm ot bokc ul znk lgiz zngz tu Kaxuvkgt
yzgzk oy gy pkgruay ul znk kdikrrktik gtj cnurkyusktkyy ul ozy kdvuxzkj luuj
yavvroky gy znk Atozkj Yzgzky, tux yu kgyore ghrk, ut giiuatz ul otnkxktz
yuatjtkyy, zu magxgtzkk znuyk wagrozoky.

Tux gxk znkyk jolloiarzoky iutlotkj zu uax luuj vxujaizy jkyomtkj lux
kdvuxzgzout. Uax mxkgz otyaxgtik iusvgtoky, lux kdgsvrk, ngbotm haorz av g
bgyz hayotkyy ghxugj gtj otbkyzkj g rgxmk yngxk ul znkox mgoty ot luxkomt
iuatzxoky ot iusvrogtik cozn znk ruigr rgcy gtj xkmargzouty znkt kdoyzotm, tuc
lotj znksykrbky coznot g tgxxucotm ioxirk ul utkxuay gtj atluxkykkt
iutjozouty, gtj gxk iutlxutzkj he znk tkikyyoze ul xkzoxksktz lxus g lokrj
znay sgjk atvxulozghrk, ol, otjkkj, znke gxk tuz yassgxore kdvkrrkj, gy yusk
ul znks ngbk rgzkre hkkt lxus Vxayyog.

Oz oy tuz zu hk luxmuzzkt zngz otzkxtgzoutgr zxgjk igt tuz hk utk-yojkj. Ozy
iaxxktzy gxk grzkxtgzotm, gtj ozy subksktzy ynuarj hk nutkyzre xkiovxuigr.
Coznuaz znoy oz grsuyz tkikyygxore jkmktkxgzky otzu g jkboik zu mgot gjbgtzgmk
ux g iutzxobgtik zu ykiaxk hktklozy cozn utre znk ykshrgtik ul g xkzaxt. Ot
uax jkgrotmy cozn uznkx tgzouty ck uamnz zu hk uvkt-ngtjkj gtj yixavaruayre
lgox. Znoy ynuarj hk uax vuroie gy g vxujaiotm tgzout, gtj oz vrgotre hkiusky
ay gy g vkuvrk cnu rubk mktkxuyoze gtj znk suxgr gyvkizy ul tgzoutgr muuj
lgozn gtj xkiovxuigr luxhkgxgtik.

Znkyk iutyojkxgzouty ynuarj tuz, nuckbkx, iutyzxgot ay zu yahsoz zu atlgox
joyixosotgzout tux zu yorktzre giwaokyik ot bkdgzouay notjxgtiky zu znk
ktpuesktz ul uax yngxk ul znk rkmozosgzk gjbgtzgmky ul vxuvkx zxgjk xkrgzouty.
Ol gt kdgsotgzout ul znk yozagzout yammkyzy yain skgyaxky ut uax vgxz gy cuarj
otburbk xkyzxoizouty yosorgx zu znuyk lxus cnoin ck yallkx, znk cge zu yain g
iuaxyk oy kgye. Oz ynuarj, nuckbkx, he tu skgty hk romnzre ktzkxkj avut, yotik
znk tkikyyoze lux znk otgamaxgzout ul yain g vuroie cuarj hk xkmxkzzkj he znk
hkyz yktzosktz ul uax vkuvrk gtj hkigayk oz tgzaxgrre gtj rumoigrre somnz rkgj
zu iutykwaktiky ul znk mxgbkyz ingxgizkx.

O zgqk vrkgyaxk ot igrrotm zu euax gzzktzout znk ktiusoasy hkyzuckj ut znuyk
bkyykry ul uax tkc Tgbe cnoin zuuq vgxz ot znk tuzghrk ikxksute ul znk uvktotm
ul znk Qokr Igtgr. Oz cgy lozzotm zngz znoy kdzxguxjotgxe ginokbksktz ul znk
tkckx Mkxsgt tgzoutgroze ynuarj hk ikrkhxgzkj ot znk vxkyktik ul Gskxoig'y
kdvuyozout ul znk rgzkyz jkbkruvsktzy ul znk cuxrj' y tgbgr ktkxme.

Uax xkrgzouty cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot, grcgey otzosgzk gtj osvuxzgtz, ngbk jksgtjkj
jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx kbkt g mxkgzkx yngxk ul iutyojkxgzout zngt oy ayagr.

Ykbkxgr bkdgzouay wakyzouty ckxk rklz atjkzkxsotkj he znk jkioyout ul znk
Hkxotm Ykg Gxhozxgzout Zxohatgr. Znk gvvroigzout ul znk vxotiovrky rgoj juct
he zngz gamayz huje ngy tuz hkkt lurruckj he znk xkyarzy znke ckxk otzktjkj zu
giiusvroyn, koznkx hkigayk znk vxotiovrky znksykrbky rgiqkj ot hxkgjzn gtj
jklotozktkyy ux hkigayk znkox kdkiazout ngy hkkt suxk ux rkyy osvkxlkiz. Sain
iuxxkyvutjktik ngy hkkt kdingtmkj hkzckkt znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy ut znk yahpkiz
ul vxkbktzotm znk kdzkxsotgzotm yrgamnzkx ul ykgry. Znk otyalloioktie ul znk
Hxozoyn vgzxur ul Hkxotm Ykg atjkx znk xkmargzouty gmxkkj ut he znk zcu
Mubkxtsktzy ngy hkkt vuotzkj uaz, gtj ekz utre zcu Hxozoyn ynovy ngbk hkkt ut
vuroik jaze jaxotm znoy ykgyut ot znuyk cgzkxy.

Znk tkkj ul g suxk kllkizobk ktluxiksktz ul kdoyzotm xkmargzouty gy ckrr gy
znk gjuvzout ul yain gjjozoutgr xkmargzouty gy kdvkxoktik ngy ynuct zu hk
ghyurazkre tkikyygxe zu igxxe uaz znk otzktz ul znk gcgxj ngbk hkkt kgxtkyzre
axmkj avut znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz, haz znay lgx coznuaz kllkizobk xkyarzy. Ot
znk skgtzosk znk jkvrkzout ul znk ykgr nkxjy he skgty ul vkrgmoi natzotm ngy
yu grgxsotmre vxumxkyykj zngz atrkyy znkox yrgamnzkx oy gz utik kllkizobkre
inkiqkj znkox kdzotizout coznot g lkc ekgxy ykksy zu hk g sgzzkx ul ghyurazk
ikxzgotze.

Znk atjkxyzgtjotm he cnoin znk Atozkj Yzgzky cgy zu vge gtj Mxkgz Hxozgot zu
xkikobk g rasv yas ul $425,000 ot larr ykzzrksktz ul grr Hxozoyn irgosy lux
jgsgmky gxoyotm lxus uax ykofaxk ul Hxozoyn ykgrotm bkyykry atgaznuxofkj atjkx
znk gcgxj ul znk Vgxoy Zxohatgr ul Gxhozxgzout cgy tuz iutloxskj he znk rgyz
Iutmxkyy, cnoin jkirotkj zu sgqk znk tkikyygxe gvvxuvxogzout. O gs yzorr ul
znk uvotout zngz znoy gxxgtmksktz cgy g pajoiouay gtj gjbgtzgmkuay utk lux znk
Mubkxtsktz, gtj O kgxtkyzre xkiussktj zngz oz hk gmgot iutyojkxkj gtj
ygtizoutkj. Ol, nuckbkx, znoy juky tuz skkz cozn znk lgbux ul Iutmxkyy, oz
ikxzgotre corr ngxjre joyyktz lxus znk vxuvuyozout zngz znk Mubkxtsktz oy
huatj he kbkxe iutyojkxgzout ul nutux gtj muuj lgozn zu vxubojk lux znk yvkkje
gjpayzsktz ul znkyk irgosy he gxhozxgzout gy znk utre uznkx grzkxtgzobk. G
zxkgze ul gxhozxgzout ngy znkxkluxk hkkt gmxkkj avut, gtj corr hk osskjogzkre
rgoj hkluxk znk Yktgzk, yu zngz ot utk ul znk sujky yammkyzkj g lotgr
ykzzrksktz sge hk xkginkj.

Tuzcoznyzgtjotm zngz Mxkgz Hxozgot uxomotgzkj znk vxuvuygr zu ktluxik
otzkxtgzoutgr xarky lux znk vxkbktzout ul iurroyouty gz ykg, hgykj ut znk
xkiussktjgzouty ul znk Sgxozosk Iutlkxktik ul Cgynotmzut, gtj iutiaxxkj ot,
yammkyzotm Sgxin 11, 1895, gy znk jgzk zu hk ykz he vxuirgsgzout lux igxxeotm
znkyk xarky otzu mktkxgr kllkiz, Nkx Sgpkyze'y Mubkxtsktz, ngbotm ktiuatzkxkj
uvvuyozout ut znk vgxz ul Hxozoyn ynovvotm otzkxkyzy, gttuatikj ozy otghoroze
zu giikvz zngz jgzk, cnoin cgy iutykwaktzre igtikrkj. Znk ktzoxk sgzzkx oy
yzorr ot ghkegtik, coznuaz vxuyvkiz ul g hkzzkx iutjozout ot znk tkgx lazaxk.

Znk iussoyyoutkxy gvvuotzkj zu sgxq znk otzkxtgzoutgr huatjgxe ot
Vgyygsgwaujje Hge giiuxjotm zu znk jkyixovzout ul znk zxkgze ul Mnktz ngbk tuz
ekz larre gmxkkj.

Znk iusvrkzout ul znk vxkrosotgxe yaxbke ul zngz Grgyqgt huatjgxe cnoin
lurrucy znk iutzuax ul znk iugyz lxus znk yuaznkxtsuyz vuotz ul Vxotik ul
Cgrky Oyrgtj atzor oz yzxoqky znk utk natjxkj gtj luxze-loxyz skxojogt gz ux
tkgx znk yassoz ul Suatz Yz. Krogy gcgozy laxznkx tkikyygxe gvvxuvxogzout,
cnoin oy axmktzre xkiussktjkj. Znoy yaxbke cgy atjkxzgqkt atjkx znk vxuboyouty
ul znk iutbktzout ktzkxkj otzu he znoy iuatzxe gtj Mxkgz Hxozgot Pare 22,
1892, gtj znk yavvrksktzgxe iutbktzout ul Lkhxagxe 3, 1894.

Gy zu znk xksgototm ykizout ul znk Grgyqgt huatjgxe, cnoin lurrucy znk utk
natjxkj gtj luxze-loxyz skxojogt tuxzncgxjre lxus Suatz Yz. Krogy zu znk
Lxufkt Uikgt, znk ykzzrksktz ul cnoin otburbky znk vneyoigr ruigzout ul znk
skxojogt sktzoutkj, tu iutbktzoutgr gmxkksktz ngy ekz hkkt sgjk. Znk
gyikxzgotsktz ul g mobkt skxojogt gz g vgxzoiargx vuotz oy g cuxq xkwaoxotm
sain zosk gtj igxklar uhykxbgzouty gtj yaxbkey. Yain uhykxbgzouty gtj yaxbkey
ckxk atjkxzgqkt he znk Atozkj Yzgzky Iugyz gtj Mkujkzoi Yaxbke ot 1890 gtj
1891, cnork yosorgx cuxq ot znk ygsk wagxzkxy, atjkx Hxozoyn gayvoiky, oy
hkrokbkj zu mobk tkgxre iuotiojktz xkyarzy; haz znkyk yaxbkey ngbk hkkt
otjkvktjktzre iutjaizkj, gtj tu otzkxtgzoutgr gmxkksktz zu sgxq znuyk ux gte
uznkx vgxzy ul znk utk natjxkj gtj luxze-loxyz skxojogt he vkxsgtktz sutasktzy
ngy ekz hkkt sgjk. Ot znk skgtzosk znk bgrrke ul znk Eaqut oy hkiusotm g
nomncge znxuamn znk noznkxzu atkdvruxkj corjy ul Grgyqg, gtj ghatjgtz sotkxgr
ckgrzn ngy hkkt joyiubkxkj ot zngz xkmout, kyvkiogrre gz ux tkgx znk patizout
ul znk huatjgxe skxojogt cozn znk Eaqut gtj ozy zxohazgxoky. Ot znkyk
ioxiasyzgtiky oz oy kdvkjoktz, gtj, otjkkj, osvkxgzobk, zngz znk
paxoyjoizoutgr rosozy ul znk xkyvkizobk Mubkxtsktzy ot znoy tkc xkmout hk
yvkkjore jkzkxsotkj. Nkx Hxozgttoi Sgpkyze'y Mubkxtsktz ngy vxuvuykj g puotz
jkrosozgzout ul znk utk natjxkj gtj luxze-loxyz skxojogt he gt otzkxtgzoutgr
iussoyyout ul kdvkxzy, cnoin, ol Iutmxkyy corr gaznuxofk oz gtj sgqk jak
vxuboyout znkxklux, igt hk giiusvroynkj cozn tu atxkgyutghrk jkrge. Oz oy
osvuyyohrk zu ubkxruuq znk bozgr osvuxzgtik ul iutzotaotm znk cuxq grxkgje
ktzkxkj avut gtj yavvrksktzotm oz he laxznkx kllkizobk skgyaxky ruuqotm zu znk
kdgiz ruigzout ul znoy ktzoxk huatjgxe rotk.

O igrr gzzktzout zu znk atygzoylgizuxe jkrosozgzout ul znk xkyvkizobk
paxoyjoizouty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Jusotout ul Igtgjg ot znk Mxkgz
Rgqky gz znk gvvxuginky zu znk tgxxuc cgzkxy zngz iuttkiz znks. Znk cgzkxy ot
wakyzout gxk lxkwaktzkj he loynkxskt ul huzn tgzoutgrozoky gtj znkox tkzy gxk
znkxk aykj. Ucotm zu znk atikxzgotze gtj omtuxgtik gy zu znk zxak huatjgxe,
bkdgzouty joyvazky gtj otpaxouay ykofaxky ul hugzy gtj tkzy he Igtgjogt
ixaoykxy ulzkt uiiax, cnork gte vuyozobk ykzzrksktz znkxkul he gt giikvzkj
yzgtjgxj oy tuz kgyore zu hk xkginkj. G puotz iussoyyout zu jkzkxsotk znk rotk
ot znuyk wagxzkxy ut g vxgizoigr hgyoy, he skgyaxkj iuaxyky lurrucotm xgtmk
sgxqy ut ynuxk, oy g tkikyyoze lux cnoin osskjogzk vxuboyout ynuarj hk sgjk.

Oz hkotm gvvgxktz zngz znk huatjgxe joyvazk hkzckkt Mxkgz Hxozgot gtj znk
Xkvahroi ul Bktkfakrg iutikxtotm znk rosozy ul Hxozoyn Maogtg cgy gvvxuginotm
gt giazk yzgmk, g jklotozk yzgzksktz ul znk otzkxkyz gtj vuroie ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky gy xkmgxjy znk iutzxubkxye ykkskj zu hk xkwaoxkj huzn ut ozy uct
giiuatz gtj ot bokc ul ozy xkrgzouty cozn znk lxoktjre vuckxy joxkizre
iutikxtkj. Ot Pare rgyz, znkxkluxk, g joyvgzin cgy gjjxkyykj zu uax gshgyygjux
gz Rutjut lux iussatoigzout zu znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz ot cnoin znk gzzozajk ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky cgy larre gtj joyzotizre ykz luxzn. Znk mktkxgr iutirayouty
znkxkot xkginkj gtj luxsargzkj gxk ot yahyzgtik zngz znk zxgjozoutgr gtj
kyzghroynkj vuroie ul znoy Mubkxtsktz oy loxsre uvvuykj zu g luxiohrk otixkgyk
he gte Kaxuvkgt vuckx ul ozy zkxxozuxogr vuyykyyouty ut znoy iutzotktz; zngz
znoy vuroie oy gy ckrr xuatjkj ot vxotiovrk gy oz oy yzxutmre yavvuxzkj he
taskxuay vxkikjktzy; zngz gy g iutykwaktik znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy huatj zu
vxuzkyz gmgotyz znk ktrgxmksktz ul znk gxkg ul Hxozoyn Maogtg ot jkxumgzout ul
znk xomnzy gtj gmgotyz znk corr ul Bktkfakrg; zngz iutyojkxotm znk joyvgxoze
ot yzxktmzn ul Mxkgz Hxozgot gtj Bktkfakrg znk zkxxozuxogr joyvazk hkzckkt
znks igt hk xkgyutghre ykzzrkj utre he lxoktjre gtj osvgxzogr gxhozxgzout, gtj
zngz znk xkyuxz zu yain gxhozxgzout ynuarj otirajk znk cnurk iutzxubkxye, gtj
oy tuz ygzoylokj ol utk ul znk vuckxy iutikxtkj oy vkxsozzkj zu jxgc gt
gxhozxgxe rotk znxuamn znk zkxxozuxe ot jkhgzk gtj zu jkirgxk zngz oz corr
yahsoz zu gxhozxgzout utre znk vuxzout reotm ut utk yojk ul oz. Ot bokc ul
znkyk iutirayouty, znk joyvgzin ot wakyzout igrrkj avut znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz
lux g jklotozk gtyckx zu znk wakyzout cnkznkx oz cuarj ux cuarj tuz yahsoz znk
zkxxozuxogr iutzxubkxye hkzckkt ozykrl gtj Bktkfakrg ot ozy ktzoxkze zu
osvgxzogr gxhozxgzout. Znk gtyckx ul znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz ngy tuz ekz hkkt
xkikobkj, haz oy kdvkizkj ynuxzre, cnkt laxznkx iussatoigzout ut znk yahpkiz
corr vxuhghre hk sgjk zu znk Iutmxkyy.

Kgxre ot Pgtagxe rgyz gt avxoyotm gmgotyz znk Mubkxtsktz ul Ngcgoo cgy
vxusvzre yavvxkyykj. Sgxzogr rgc cgy luxzncozn vxuirgoskj gtj taskxuay gxxkyzy
ckxk sgjk ul vkxyuty yayvkizkj ul hkotm ot yesvgzne cozn znk Xuegroyz vgxze.
Gsutm znkyk ckxk ykbkxgr iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cnu ckxk koznkx
iutboizkj he g sorozgxe iuaxz gtj yktzktikj zu jkgzn, osvxoyutsktz, ux lotk ux
ckxk jkvuxzkj coznuaz zxogr. Znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cnork jkteotm vxuzkizout zu
yain gy ngj zgqkt znk Ngcgoogt ugzn ul grrkmogtik, otyoyzkj zngz sgxzogr rgc,
znuamn grzkxotm znk luxsy ul payzoik, iuarj tuz yavkxykjk payzoik ozykrl, gtj
jksgtjkj yzge ul kdkiazout atzor znk vxuikkjotmy ngj hkkt yahsozzkj zu znoy
Mubkxtsktz gtj qtucrkjmk uhzgotkj znkxklxus zngz uax iozofkty ngj xkikobkj
lgox zxogr. Znk jkgzn yktzktiky ckxk yahykwaktzre iussazkj ux ckxk xksozzkj ut
iutjozout ul rkgbotm znk oyrgtjy. Znk igyky ul ikxzgot Gskxoigty gxxkyzkj gtj
kdvkrrkj he gxhozxgxe uxjkx coznuaz luxsgr ingxmk ux zxogr ngbk ngj gzzktzout,
gtj ot yusk otyzgtiky ngbk hkkt luatj zu payzole xksutyzxgtik gtj g irgos lux
otjkstoze, cnoin Ngcgoo ngy tuz znay lgx iutikjkj.

Sx. Znaxyzut, znk Ngcgoogt sotoyzkx, ngbotm laxtoynkj znoy Mubkxtsktz ghatjgtz
xkgyut lux gyqotm zngz nk hk xkigrrkj, zngz iuaxyk cgy vaxyakj, gtj noy
yaiikyyux ngy rgzkre hkkt xkikobkj.

Znk jkvruxghrk retinotm ul ykbkxgr Ozgrogt rghuxkxy ot Iuruxgju cgy tgzaxgrre
lurruckj he otzkxtgzoutgr xkvxkyktzgzouty, gtj O gs ngvve zu yge zngz znk hkyz
klluxzy ul znk Yzgzk ot cnoin znk uazxgmky uiiaxxkj ngbk hkkt vaz luxzn zu
joyiubkx gtj vatoyn znk gaznuxy ul znoy gzxuiouay ixosk. Znk jkvktjktz
lgsoroky ul yusk ul znk atluxzatgzk boizosy otbozk he znkox jkvruxghrk
iutjozout mxgiouay vxuboyout lux znkox tkkjy.

Znkyk sgtolkyzgzouty gmgotyz nkrvrkyy grokty sge hk zxgikj znxuamn yaiikyyobk
yzgmky zu znk boiouay vgjxuto yeyzks, cnoin, atinkiqkj he uax ossomxgzout gtj
iutzxgiz-rghux yzgzazky, iutzxury znkyk cuxqkxy lxus znk susktz ul rgtjotm ut
uax ynuxky gtj lgxsy znks uaz ot joyzgtz gtj ulzkt xajk xkmouty, cnkxk znkox
inkgvktotm iusvkzozout ot znk lokrjy ul hxkgj-cottotm zuor hxotmy znks otzu
iurroyout cozn uznkx rghux otzkxkyzy. Cnork ckriusotm, gy ck ynuarj, znuyk cnu
ykkq uax ynuxky zu skxmk znksykrbky ot uax huje vurozoi gtj cot vkxyutgr
iusvkzktik he nutkyz klluxz, ck igt tuz xkmgxj yain gyykshrgmky ul
joyzotizobkre grokt rghuxkxy, noxkj uaz ot znk sgyy zu znk vxuloz ul grokt
yvkiargzuxy gtj ynovvkj noznkx gtj znoznkx gy znk vxuyvkiz ul mgot sge
joizgzk, gy uznkxcoyk zngt xkvamtgtz zu znk yvoxoz ul uax ioborofgzout,
jkzkxxktz zu otjobojagr gjbgtiksktz, gtj notjxgtiky zu znk haorjotm av ul
yzghrk iussatozoky xkyzotm avut znk cnurkyusk gshozouty ul znk iozofkt gtj
iutyzozazotm znk vxosk lgizux ot znk vxuyvkxoze gtj vxumxkyy ul uax tgzout. Ol
rkmoyrgzout igt xkgin znoy mxucotm kbor, oz ikxzgotre ynuarj hk gzzksvzkj.

Pgvgt ngy laxtoynkj ghatjgtz kbojktik ul nkx bgyz mgot ot kbkxe zxgoz gtj
ingxgizkxoyzoi zngz iutyzozazky g tgzout'y mxkgztkyy. Ck ngbk xkgyut lux
iutmxgzargzout ot znk lgiz zngz znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, he znk
kdingtmk ul rohkxgr zxkgze yzovargzouty cozn znk tkc Pgvgt, cgy znk loxyz zu
xkiumtofk nkx cutjkxlar gjbgtik gtj zu kdzktj zu nkx znk iutyojkxgzout gtj
iutlojktik jak zu nkx tgzoutgr ktromnzktsktz gtj vxumxkyyobk ingxgizkx.

Znk huatjgxe joyvazk cnoin rgzkre znxkgzktkj zu kshxuor Magzksgrg gtj Skdoiu
ngy ngvvore eokrjkj zu vgioloi iuatykry, gtj ozy jkzkxsotgzout ngy, he znk
puotz gmxkksktz ul znk vgxzoky, hkkt yahsozzkj zu znk yurk gxhozxgzout ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky sotoyzkx zu Skdoiu.

Znk iussoyyout gvvuotzkj atjkx znk iutbktzout ul Lkhxagxe 18, 1889, zu ykz tkc
sutasktzy grutm znk huatjgxe hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj Skdoiu ngy
iusvrkzkj ozy zgyq.

Gy g ykwakr zu znk lgoraxk ul g yinksk lux znk iurutofgzout ot Skdoiu ul
tkmxuky, suyzre ossomxgtzy lxus Grghgsg atjkx iutzxgiz, g mxkgz tashkx ul
znkyk nkrvrkyy gtj yallkxotm vkuvrk, yzgxbotm gtj ysozzkt cozn iutzgmouay
joykgyk, sgjk znkox cge ux ckxk gyyoyzkj zu znk lxutzokx, cnkxk, ot cxkzinkj
vromnz, znke ckxk wagxgtzotkj he znk Zkdgy gaznuxozoky. Rkgxtotm ul znkox
jkyzozazk iutjozout, O joxkizkj xgzouty zu hk zksvuxgxore laxtoynkj znks
znxuamn znk Cgx Jkvgxzsktz. Gz znk kdvoxgzout ul znkox wagxgtzotk znke ckxk
iutbkekj he znk xgorcge iusvgtoky gz iusvgxgzobkre tusotgr xgzky zu znkox
nusky ot Grghgsg, avut se gyyaxgtik, ot znk ghyktik ul gte latj gbgorghrk lux
znk iuyz ul znkox zxgtyvuxzgzout, zngz O cuarj xkiussktj zu Iutmxkyy gt
gvvxuvxogzout lux ozy vgesktz. O tuc yzxutmre axmk avut Iutmxkyy znk vxuvxokze
ul sgqotm yain gt gvvxuvxogzout. Oz ynuarj hk xkskshkxkj zngz znk skgyaxky
zgqkt ckxk joizgzkj tuz utre he yesvgzne gtj nasgtoze, haz he g iutboizout
zngz oz cgy tuz iusvgzohrk cozn znk jomtoze ul znoy Mubkxtsktz zngz yu rgxmk g
huje ul uax jkvktjktz iozofkty ynuarj hk znxuct lux xkrokl avut znk ingxoze ul
g tkomnhuxotm yzgzk.

Ot rgyz ekgx'y skyygmk O tgxxgzkj gz yusk rktmzn znk paxoyjoizoutgr wakyzouty
znkt lxkynre gxoykt ot znk Suywaozu Otjogt Yzxov ul Toigxgmag. Yotik zngz
zosk, he znk buratzgxe giz ul znk Suywaozu Tgzout, znk zkxxozuxe xkykxbkj zu
znks ngy hkkt otiuxvuxgzkj cozn Toigxgmag, znk Otjogty luxsgrre yahpkizotm
znksykrbky zu hk mubkxtkj he znk mktkxgr rgcy gtj xkmargzouty ul znk Xkvahroi
otyzkgj ul he znkox uct iayzusy gtj xkmargzouty, gtj znay gbgorotm znksykrbky
ul g vxoborkmk ykiaxkj zu znks he znk zxkgze hkzckkt Toigxgmag gtj Mxkgz
Hxozgot ul Pgtagxe 28, 1860.

Glzkx znoy kdzktyout ul atoluxs Toigxgmagt gjsotoyzxgzout zu znk Suywaozu
Yzxov, znk igyk ul znk Hxozoyn boik-iutyar, Ngzin, gtj ul ykbkxgr ul noy
iuatzxeskt cnu ngj hkkt yassgxore kdvkrrkj lxus Toigxgmag gtj zxkgzkj cozn
iutyojkxghrk otjomtoze vxubuqkj g irgos he Mxkgz Hxozgot avut Toigxgmag lux
vkiatogxe otjkstoze, cnoin, avut Toigxgmag'y xklaygr zu gjsoz roghoroze, cgy
ktluxikj he Mxkgz Hxozgot. Cnork znk yubkxkomtze gtj paxoyjoizout ul Toigxgmag
cgy ot tu cge wakyzoutkj he Mxkgz Hxozgot, znk luxskx'y gxhozxgxe iutjaiz ot
xkmgxj zu Hxozoyn yahpkizy laxtoynkj znk mxuatj lux znoy vxuikkjotm.

G Hxozoyn tgbgr luxik uiiavokj coznuaz xkyoyzgtik znk Vgioloi ykgvuxz ul
Iuxotzu, haz cgy yuut glzkx coznjxgct avut znk vxusoyk zngz znk yas jksgtjkj
cuarj hk vgoj. Znxuamnuaz znoy otiojktz znk qotjre ulloiky ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky ckxk otbuqkj gtj ckxk ksvruekj ot lgbux ul gy vkgiklar g ykzzrksktz gtj
gy sain iutyojkxgzout gtj otjarmktik zucgxj Toigxgmag gy ckxk iutyoyzktz cozn
znk tgzaxk ul znk igyk. Uax klluxzy ngbk yotik hkkt sgjk znk yahpkiz ul
gvvxkiogzobk gtj mxgzklar xkiumtozout he Toigxgmag. Znk iuxutgzout ul znk Ifgx
ul Xayyog gz Suyiuc ot Sge tkdz otbozky znk ikxksutogr vgxzoiovgzout ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj ot giiuxjgtik cozn aygmk gtj jovrusgzoi vxuvxokze uax
sotoyzkx zu znk osvkxogr iuaxz ngy hkkt joxkizkj zu xkvxkyktz uax Mubkxtsktz
ut znk uiigyout.

Iuxxkyvutjktik oy ut luuz zuainotm znk vxgizoik ul Xayyogt iutyary coznot znk
paxoyjoizout ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu otzkxxumgzk iozofkty gy zu znkox xgik gtj
xkromouay lgozn, gtj avut gyikxzgotsktz znkxkul zu jkte zu Pkcy gaznktzoigzout
ul vgyyvuxzy ux rkmgr juiasktzy lux ayk ot Xayyog. Otgysain gy yain g
vxuikkjotm osvuyky g joyghoroze cnoin ot znk igyk ul yaiikyyout zu vxuvkxze ot
Xayyog sge hk luatj zu otlxotmk znk zxkgze xomnzy ul uax iozofkty, gtj cnoin
oy gt uhtudouay otbgyout ul uax zkxxozuxogr paxoyjoizout, oz ngy kroiozkj
lozzotm xksutyzxgtik, znk xkyarz ul cnoin, oz oy nuvkj, corr xksubk znk igayk
ul iusvrgotz. Znk vktjotm irgosy ul ykgrotm bkyykry ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky
ykofkj ot Xayyogt cgzkxy xksgot atgjpayzkj. Uax xkiktz iutbktzout cozn Xayyog
kyzghroynotm g sujay bobktjo gy zu osvkxogr paxoyjoizout ot yain igyky ngy
vxkbktzkj laxznkx jolloiarze ul znoy tgzaxk.

Znk Xayyogt Mubkxtsktz ngy ckriuskj ot vxotiovrk uax yammkyzout lux g sujay
bobktjo, zu kshxgik Mxkgz Hxozgot gtj Pgvgt, ruuqotm zu znk hkzzkx
vxkykxbgzout ul ykgr rolk ot znk Tuxzn Vgioloi gtj Hkxotm Ykg gtj znk
kdzktyout ul znk vxuzkizkj gxkg jklotkj he znk Vgxoy Zxohatgr zu grr Vgioloi
cgzkxy tuxzn ul znk znoxze-lolzn vgxgrrkr. Oz oy kyvkiogrre tuzoikghrk zngz
Xayyog lgbuxy vxunohozout ul znk ayk ul loxkgxsy ot ykgr natzotm znxuamnuaz
znk vxuvuykj gxkg gtj g rutmkx iruykj ykgyut lux vkrgmoi ykgrotm.

Ot se rgyz zcu gttagr skyygmky O igrrkj znk gzzktzout ul znk Iutmxkyy zu znk
vuyozout ck uiiavokj gy utk ul znk vgxzoky zu g zxkgze ux gmxkksktz he cnoin
ck hkigsk puotzre huatj cozn Ktmrgtj gtj Mkxsgte zu yu otzkxlkxk cozn znk
mubkxtsktz gtj iutzxur ul Ygsug gy ot kllkiz zu gyyask znk sgtgmksktz ul ozy
gllgoxy. Ut znk 9zn jge ul Sge, 1894, O zxgtysozzkj zu znk Yktgzk g yvkiogr
skyygmk, cozn giiusvgteotm juiasktzy, mobotm otluxsgzout ut znk yahpkiz gtj
ksvngyofotm znk uvotout O ngbk gz grr zosky ktzkxzgotkj, zngz uax yozagzout ot
znoy sgzzkx cgy otiutyoyzktz cozn znk soyyout gtj zxgjozouty ul uax
Mubkxtsktz, ot bourgzout ul znk vxotiovrky ck vxulkyy, gtj ot grr ozy vngyky
soyinokbuay gtj bkdgzouay.

O gmgot vxkyy znoy yahpkiz avut znk gzzktzout ul znk Iutmxkyy gtj gyq lux yain
rkmoyrgzobk gizout ux kdvxkyyout gy corr rkgj znk cge zu uax xkrokl lxus
uhromgzouty huzn oxqyusk gtj attgzaxgr.

Iahg oy gmgot mxgbkre joyzaxhkj. Gt otyaxxkizout ot yusk xkyvkizy suxk gizobk
zngt znk rgyz vxkikjotm xkburz, cnoin iutzotakj lxus 1868 zu 1878, tuc kdoyzy
ot g rgxmk vgxz ul znk kgyzkxt otzkxoux ul znk oyrgtj, sktgiotm kbkt yusk
vuvargzouty ut znk iugyz. Hkyojky jkxgtmotm znk iusskxiogr kdingtmky ul znk
oyrgtj, ul cnoin uax iuatzxe zgqky znk vxkjusotgtz yngxk, znoy lrgmxgtz
iutjozout ul nuyzorozoky, he gxuayotm yktzosktzgr yesvgzne gtj otiozotm
gjbktzaxuay yavvuxz gsutm uax vkuvrk, ngy ktzgorkj kgxtkyz klluxz ut znk vgxz
ul znoy Mubkxtsktz zu ktluxik uhkjoktik zu uax tkazxgroze rgcy gtj zu vxkbktz
znk zkxxozuxe ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky lxus hkotm ghaykj gy g bgtzgmk mxuatj lxus
cnoin zu goj znuyk ot gxsy gmgotyz Yvgtoyn yubkxkomtze.

Cngzkbkx sge hk znk zxgjozoutgr yesvgzne ul uax iuatzxeskt gy otjobojagry cozn
g vkuvrk cnu ykks zu hk yzxammrotm lux rgxmkx gazutuse gtj mxkgzkx lxkkjus,
jkkvktkj, gy yain yesvgzne tgzaxgrre sayz hk, ot hkngrl ul uax tkomnhuxy, ekz
znk vrgot jaze ul znkox Mubkxtsktz oy zu uhykxbk ot muuj lgozn znk xkiumtofkj
uhromgzouty ul otzkxtgzoutgr xkrgzoutynov. Znk vkxluxsgtik ul znoy jaze ynuarj
tuz hk sgjk suxk jolloiarz he g joyxkmgxj ut znk vgxz ul uax iozofkty ul znk
uhromgzouty mxucotm uaz ul znkox grrkmogtik zu znkox iuatzxe, cnoin ynuarj
xkyzxgot znks lxus bourgzotm gy otjobojagry znk tkazxgroze cnoin znk tgzout ul
cnoin znke gxk skshkxy oy huatj zu uhykxbk ot ozy xkrgzouty zu lxoktjre
yubkxkomt yzgzky. Znuamn tkoznkx znk cgxszn ul uax vkuvrk'y yesvgzne cozn znk
Iahgt otyaxmktzy, tux uax ruyy gtj sgzkxogr jgsgmk iutykwaktz avut znk lazork
ktjkgbuxy znay lgx sgjk zu xkyzuxk vkgik gtj uxjkx, tux gte ynuiq uax nasgtk
yktyohorozoky sge ngbk xkikobkj lxus znk ixakrzoky cnoin gvvkgx zu kyvkiogrre
ingxgizkxofk znoy ygtmaotgxe gtj lokxikre iutjaizkj cgx, ngbk ot znk rkgyz
yngqkt znk jkzkxsotgzout ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu nutkyzre larlorr kbkxe
otzkxtgzoutgr uhromgzout, ekz oz oy zu hk kgxtkyzre nuvkj ut kbkxe mxuatj zngz
znk jkbgyzgzout ul gxskj iutlroiz sge yvkkjore hk yzgekj gtj uxjkx gtj waokz
xkyzuxkj zu znk joyzxgizkj oyrgtj, hxotmotm ot znkox zxgot znk gizoboze gtj
znxolz ul vkgiklar vaxyaozy.

Utk tuzghrk otyzgtik ul otzkxlkxktik he Yvgot cozn vgyyotm Gskxoigt ynovy ngy
uiiaxxkj. Ut Sgxin 8 rgyz znk Grrogtig, cnork huatj lxus Iurut zu Tkc Euxq,
gtj lurrucotm znk iayzusgxe zxgiq lux bkyykry tkgx znk Iahgt ynuxk, haz
uazyojk znk 3-sork rosoz, cgy loxkj avut he g Yvgtoyn mathugz. Vxuzkyz cgy
vxusvzre sgjk he znk Atozkj Yzgzky gmgotyz znoy giz gy tuz hkotm payzolokj he
g yzgzk ul cgx, tux vkxsoyyohrk ot xkyvkiz ul bkyykry ut znk ayagr vgzny ul
iusskxik, tux zurkxghrk ot bokc ul znk cgtzut vkxor uiigyoutkj zu ottuiktz
rolk gtj vxuvkxze. Znk giz cgy joygbuckj, cozn larr kdvxkyyout ul xkmxkz gtj
gyyaxgtik ul tutxkiaxxktik ul yain payz igayk ul iusvrgotz, cnork znk
ullktjotm ulloikx cgy xkrokbkj ul noy iussgtj. Sorozgxe gxxkyzy ul iozofkty ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot Iahg ngbk uiigyoutkj lxkwaktz xkirgsgzouty. Cnkxk nkrj ut
ixosotgr ingxmky znkox jkrobkxe zu znk uxjotgxe iobor paxoyjoizout lux zxogr
ngy hkkt jksgtjkj gtj uhzgotkj ot iutluxsoze cozn zxkgze vxuboyouty, gtj cnkxk
skxkre jkzgotkj he cge ul sorozgxe vxkigazout atjkx g vxuirgoskj yzgzk ul
yokmk, coznuaz luxsargzkj giiaygzout, znkox xkrkgyk ux zxogr ngy hkkt otyoyzkj
avut. Znk xomnz ul Gskxoigt iutyargx ulloikxy ot znk oyrgtj zu vxklkx vxuzkyzy
gtj jksgtjy ot yain igyky ngbotm hkkt wakyzoutkj he znk otyargx gaznuxoze,
znkox ktpuesktz ul znk vxoborkmk yzovargzkj he zxkgze lux znk iutyary ul
Mkxsgte cgy irgoskj atjkx znk suyz-lgbuxkj-tgzout vxuboyout ul uax uct
iutbktzout gtj cgy vxusvzre xkiumtofkj.

Znk rutm-yzgtjotm jksgtj ul Gtzutou Sgdosu Suxg gmgotyz Yvgot ngy gz rgyz hkkt
ykzzrkj he znk vgesktz, ut znk 14zn ul Ykvzkshkx rgyz, ul znk yas uxomotgrre
gmxkkj avut ot rowaojgzout ul znk irgos. Ozy joyzxohazout gsutm znk vgxzoky
ktzozrkj zu xkikobk oz ngy vxuikkjkj gy xgvojre gy znk xomnzy ul znuyk
irgosotm znk latj iuarj hk yglkre jkzkxsotkj.

Znk ktluxiksktz ul jollkxktzogr jazoky gmgotyz vxujaizy ul znoy iuatzxe
kdvuxzkj zu Iahg gtj Vakxzu Xoiu vxusvzkj znk osskjogzk irgos ut uax vgxz zu
znk hktkloz ul znk sotosas zgxoll ul Yvgot ot xkzaxt lux znk suyz lgbuxghrk
zxkgzsktz vkxsozzkj he uax rgcy gy xkmgxjy znk vxujaizout ul Yvgtoyn
zkxxozuxoky. G iusskxiogr gxxgtmksktz cgy iutirajkj ot Pgtagxe rgyz ykiaxotm
znk zxkgzsktz yu irgoskj.

Bomuxuay vxuzkyzy gmgotyz kdikyyobk lotky osvuykj ut uax ynovy gtj skxingtjoyk
he znk iayzusy ulloikxy ul znkyk oyrgtjy lux zxobogr kxxuxy ngbk xkyarzkj ot
znk xksoyyout ul yain lotky ot otyzgtiky cnkxk znk kwaoze ul znk iusvrgotz cgy
gvvgxktz, znuamn znk bkdgzouay vxgizoik ngy tuz hkkt cnurre joyiutzotakj.

Uiiaxxktiky ot Zaxqke ngbk iutzotakj zu kdiozk iutikxt. Znk xkvuxzkj sgyygixky
ul Inxoyzogty ot Gxsktog gtj znk jkbkruvsktz znkxk gtj ot uznkx joyzxoizy ul g
yvoxoz ul lgtgzoi nuyzoroze zu Inxoyzogt otlraktiky tgzaxgrre kdiozkj
gvvxknktyout lux znk yglkze ul znk jkbuzkj skt gtj cuskt cnu, gy jkvktjktzy ul
znk luxkomt soyyoutgxe yuiokzoky ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky, xkyojk ot Zaxqke atjkx
znk magxgtze ul rgc gtj aygmk gtj ot znk rkmozosgzk vkxluxsgtik ul znkox
kjaigzoutgr gtj xkromouay soyyout. Tu klluxzy ngbk hkkt yvgxkj ot znkox
hkngrl, gtj znkox vxuzkizout ot vkxyut gtj vxuvkxze ngy hkkt kgxtkyzre gtj
bomuxuayre ktluxikj he kbkxe skgty coznot uax vuckx.

O xkmxkz, nuckbkx, zngz gt gzzksvz ut uax vgxz zu uhzgot hkzzkx otluxsgzout
iutikxtotm znk zxak iutjozout ul gllgoxy ot znk joyzaxhkj wagxzkx ul znk
Uzzusgt Ksvoxk he yktjotm znoznkx znk Atozkj Yzgzky iutyar gz Yobgy zu sgqk
otbkyzomgzout gtj xkvuxz cgy zncgxzkj he znk uhpkizouty ul znk Zaxqoyn
Mubkxtsktz. Znoy subksktz ut uax vgxz cgy ot tu yktyk skgtz gy g mxgzaozuay
ktzgtmrksktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot znk yu-igrrkj Kgyzkxt wakyzout tux gy gt
ulloiouay otzkxlkxktik cozn znk xomnz gtj jaze cnoin hkrutm he zxkgze zu
ikxzgot mxkgz Kaxuvkgt vuckxy igrrotm lux znkox otzkxbktzout ot vurozoigr
sgzzkxy gllkizotm znk muuj mubkxtsktz gtj xkromouay lxkkjus ul znk
tut-Sayyarsgt yahpkizy ul znk Yarzgt, haz oz gxuyk yurkre lxus uax jkyoxk zu
ngbk gt giiaxgzk qtucrkjmk ul znk iutjozouty ot uax klluxzy zu igxk lux znuyk
ktzozrkj zu uax vxuzkizout.

Znk vxkyktik ul uax tgbgr bkyykry cnoin gxk tuc ot znk boiotoze ul znk
joyzaxhkj ruigrozoky glluxjy uvvuxzatozoky zu giwaoxk g skgyaxk ul lgsorogxoze
cozn znk iutjozout ul gllgoxy gtj corr ktghrk ay zu zgqk yaozghrk yzkvy lux
znk vxuzkizout ul gte otzkxkyzy ul uax iuatzxeskt coznot xkgin ul uax ynovy
zngz somnz hk luatj osvkxorkj.

Znk Uzzusgt Mubkxtsktz ngy rgzkre oyyakj gt osvkxogr oxgjk kdksvzotm luxkbkx
lxus zgdgzout gt Gskxoigt iurrkmk lux moxry gz Yiazgxo. Xkvkgzkj gyyaxgtiky
ngbk gryu hkkt uhzgotkj he uax ktbue gz Iutyzgtzotuvrk zngz yosorgx
otyzozazouty sgotzgotkj gtj gjsotoyzkxkj he uax iuatzxeskt yngrr hk ykiaxkj ot
znk ktpuesktz ul grr xomnzy gtj zngz uax iozofkty znxuamnuaz znk Ksvoxk yngrr
hk vxuzkizkj.

Znk Mubkxtsktz, nuckbkx, ot bokc ul kdoyzotm lgizy, oy lgx lxus xkreotm avut
yain gyyaxgtiky gy znk rosoz ul ozy jaze. Uax sotoyzkx ngy hkkt bomorgtz gtj
grkxz ot glluxjotm grr vuyyohrk vxuzkizout ot otjobojagr igyky cnkxk jgtmkx
znxkgzktkj ux yglkze cgy osvkxorkj. Ck ngbk yktz ynovy gy lgx zucgxj znk
vuotzy ul gizagr joyzaxhgtik gy oz oy vuyyohrk lux znks zu mu, cnkxk znke
ullkx xklamk zu znuyk uhromkj zu lrkk, gtj ck ngbk znk vxusoyk ul uznkx vuckxy
cnoin ngbk ynovy ot znk tkomnhuxnuuj zngz uax iozofkty gy ckrr gy znkoxy corr
hk xkikobkj gtj vxuzkizkj ut hugxj znuyk ynovy. Ut znk jksgtj ul uax sotoyzkx
uxjkxy ngbk hkkt oyyakj he znk Yarzgt zngz Zaxqoyn yurjokxy yngrr magxj gtj
kyiuxz zu znk iugyz Gskxoigt xklamkky.

Znkyk uxjkxy ngbk hkkt igxxokj uaz, gtj uax rgzkyz otzkrromktik mobky
gyyaxgtik ul znk vxkyktz vkxyutgr yglkze ul uax iozofkty gtj soyyoutgxoky.
Znuamn znay lgx tu robky ul Gskxoigt iozofkty ngbk hkkt ygixoloikj, znkxk igt
hk tu juahz zngz ykxouay ruyy gtj jkyzxaizout ul soyyout vxuvkxze ngbk
xkyarzkj lxus xouzuay iutlroizy gtj uazxgmkuay gzzgiqy.

He zxkgze ykbkxgr ul znk suyz vuckxlar Kaxuvkgt vuckxy ngbk ykiaxkj g xomnz
gtj ngbk gyyaskj g jaze tuz utre ot hkngrl ul znkox uct iozofkty gtj ot
laxznkxgtik ul znkox uct otzkxkyzy, haz gy gmktzy ul znk Inxoyzogt cuxrj.
Znkox xomnz oy zu ktluxik yain iutjaiz ul Zaxqoyn mubkxtsktz gy corr xkyzxgot
lgtgzoigr hxazgroze, gtj ol znoy lgory znkox jaze oy zu yu otzkxlkxk gy zu
otyaxk gmgotyz yain jxkgjlar uiiaxxktiky ot Zaxqke gy ngbk rgzkre ynuiqkj
ioborofgzout. Znk vuckxy jkirgxk znoy xomnz gtj znoy jaze zu hk znkoxy grutk,
gtj oz oy kgxtkyzre nuvkj zngz vxusvz gtj kllkizobk gizout ut znkox vgxz corr
tuz hk jkrgekj.

Znk tkc iutyargzky gz Kxfkxas gtj Ngxvuuz, lux cnoin gvvxuvxogzout cgy sgjk
rgyz ykyyout, ngbk hkkt vxuboyoutgrre lorrkj he zxayzkj ksvruekky ul znk
Jkvgxzsktz ul Yzgzk. Znkyk gvvuotzkky, znuamn tuc ot Zaxqke, ngbk tuz ekz
xkikobkj znkox kdkwagzaxy.

Znk gxhozxgzout ul znk irgos ul znk Bktkfakrg Yzkgs Zxgtyvuxzgzout Iusvgte
atjkx znk zxkgze ul Pgtagxe 19, 1892, hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj Bktkfakrg,
xkyarzkj ot gt gcgxj ot lgbux ul znk irgosgtz.

Znk Mubkxtsktz ngy aykj ozy muuj ulloiky zucgxj iusvuyotm znk jollkxktiky
hkzckkt Bktkfakrg ut znk utk ngtj gtj Lxgtik gtj Hkrmoas ut znk uznkx mxucotm
uaz ul znk joysoyygr ul znk xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znuyk vuckxy ut znk mxuatj ul g
vahroigzout jkkskj ullktyobk zu Bktkfakrg. Grznuamn zngz joysoyygr cgy iuavrkj
cozn g iuxjogr xkwakyz zngz uznkx suxk vkxyutgrre gmxkkghrk ktbuey hk yktz ot
znkox yzkgj, g xavzaxk ul otzkxiuaxyk ktyakj gtj yzorr iutzotaky.

Ot bokc ul znk mxuczn ul uax otzkxkyzy ot luxkomt iuatzxoky gtj znk
ktiuaxgmotm vxuyvkizy lux g mktkxgr kdvgtyout ul uax iusskxik, znk wakyzout ul
gt osvxubksktz ot znk iutyargx ykxboik ngy otixkgykj ot osvuxzgtik gtj
axmktie. Znuamn znkxk oy tu juahz zngz znk mxkgz huje ul iutyargx ulloikxy gxk
xktjkxotm bgraghrk ykxboiky zu znk zxgjk gtj otjayzxoky ul znk iuatzxe, znk
tkkj ul yusk vrgt ul gvvuotzsktz gtj iutzxur cnoin cuarj zktj zu ykiaxk g
nomnkx gbkxgmk ul klloioktie igt tuz hk jktokj.

Znk osvuxzgtik ul znk yahpkiz ngy rkj znk Kdkiazobk zu iutyojkx cngz yzkvy
somnz vxuvkxre hk zgqkt coznuaz gjjozoutgr rkmoyrgzout zu gtyckx znk tkkj ul g
hkzzkx yeyzks ul iutyargx gvvuotzsktzy. Znk sgzzkx ngbotm hkkt iussozzkj zu
znk iutyojkxgzout ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk, ot vaxyagtik ul noy
xkiussktjgzouty gt Kdkiazobk uxjkx cgy oyyakj ut znk 20zn ul Ykvzkshkx, 1895,
he znk zkxsy ul cnoin oz oy vxubojkj zngz glzkx zngz jgzk gte bgigtie ot g
iutyargzk ux iusskxiogr gmktie cozn gt gttagr ygrgxe ux iusvktygzout lxus
ulloiogr lkky ul tuz suxk zngt $2,500 ux rkyy zngt $1,000 ynuarj hk lorrkj
koznkx he zxgtylkx ux vxusuzout lxus yusk uznkx vuyozout atjkx znk Jkvgxzsktz
ul Yzgzk ul g ingxgizkx zktjotm zu wagrole znk otiashktz lux znk vuyozout zu
hk lorrkj, ux he znk gvvuotzsktz ul g vkxyut tuz atjkx znk Jkvgxzsktz ul
Yzgzk, haz ngbotm vxkbouayre ykxbkj znkxkatjkx gtj ynuct noy igvgioze gtj
loztkyy lux iutyargx jaze, ux he znk gvvuotzsktz ul g vkxyut cnu, ngbotm hkkt
ykrkizkj he znk Vxkyojktz gtj yktz zu g hugxj lux kdgsotgzout, oy luatj avut
yain kdgsotgzout zu hk wagrolokj lux znk vuyozout. Vuyzy cnoin vge rkyy zngt
$1,000 hkotm ayagrre, ut giiuatz ul znkox ysgrr iusvktygzout, lorrkj he
ykrkizout lxus xkyojktzy ul znk ruigroze, oz cgy tuz jkkskj vxgizoighrk zu vaz
znks atjkx znk tkc yeyzks.

Znk iusvktygzout ul $2,500 cgy gjuvzkj gy znk sgdosas rosoz ot znk
irgyyoloigzout lux znk xkgyut zngz iutyargx ulloikxy xkikobotm suxk zngt zngz
yas gxk ulzkt ingxmkj cozn latizouty gtj jazoky yigxikre otlkxoux ot jomtoze
gtj osvuxzgtik zu znuyk ul jovrusgzoi gmktzy, gtj oz cgy znkxkluxk znuamnz
hkyz zu iutzotak znkox ykrkizout ot znk joyixkzout ul znk Kdkiazobk coznuaz
yahpkizotm znks zu kdgsotgzout hkluxk g hugxj. Kdirajotm 71 vrgiky cozn
iusvktygzout gz vxkyktz rkyy zngt $1,000 gtj 53 vrgiky ghubk znk sgdosas ot
iusvktygzout, znk tashkx ul vuyozouty xksgototm coznot znk yiuvk ul znk uxjkx
oy 196. Znoy tashkx corr atjuahzkjre hk otixkgykj he znk otirayout ul iutyargx
ulloikxy cnuyk xksatkxgzout ot lkky, tuc rkyy zngt $1,000, corr hk gamsktzkj
cozn znk mxuczn ul uax luxkomt iusskxik gtj g xkzaxt zu suxk lgbuxghrk
hayotkyy iutjozouty.

Ot kdkiazout ul znk Kdkiazobk uxjkx xklkxxkj zu znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk ngy
jkyomtgzkj gy g hugxj zu iutjaiz znk vxkyixohkj kdgsotgzouty znk Znoxj
Gyyoyzgtz Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk, znk Yuroiozux ul znk Jkvgxzsktz ul Yzgzk, gtj
znk Inokl ul znk Iutyargx Haxkga, gtj ngy yvkiolokj znk yahpkizy zu cnoin yain
kdgsotgzouty yngrr xkrgzk.

Oz oy tuz gyyaskj zngz znoy yeyzks corr vxubk g larr skgyaxk ul iutyargx
xkluxs. Oz oy waozk vxuhghrk zngz gizagr kdvkxoktik corr ynuc vgxzoiargxy ot
cnoin znk uxjkx grxkgje oyyakj sge hk gsktjkj gtj jksutyzxgzk zngz lux znk
hkyz xkyarzy gvvxuvxogzk rkmoyrgzout he Iutmxkyy oy osvkxgzobkre xkwaoxkj.

Ot gte kbktz, znkyk klluxzy zu osvxubk znk iutyargx ykxboik uamnz zu hk
osskjogzkre yavvrksktzkj he rkmoyrgzout vxubojotm lux iutyargx otyvkizout.
Znoy ngy lxkwaktzre hkkt g yahpkiz ul Kdkiazobk xkiussktjgzout, gtj O gmgot
axmk yain gizout he Iutmxkyy gy corr vkxsoz znk lxkwaktz gtj znuxuamn
otyvkizout ul iutyargzky he ulloikxy gvvuotzkj lux zngz vaxvuyk ux he vkxyuty
grxkgje ot znk jovrusgzoi ux iutyargx ykxboik. Znk kdvktyk gzzktjotm yain g
vrgt cuarj hk otyomtoloigtz iusvgxkj cozn ozy ayklartkyy, gtj O nuvk znk
rkmoyrgzout tkikyygxe zu ykz oz ut luuz corr hk yvkkjore luxzniusotm.

O gs znuxuamnre iutbotikj zngz ot gjjozout zu znkox ygrgxoky uax gshgyygjuxy
gtj sotoyzkxy gz luxkomt iuaxzy ynuarj hk vxubojkj he znk Mubkxtsktz cozn
ulloiogr xkyojktiky. Znk ygrgxoky ul znkyk ulloikxy gxk iusvgxgzobkre ysgrr
gtj ot suyz igyky otyalloioktz zu vge, cozn uznkx tkikyygxe kdvktyky, znk iuyz
ul sgotzgototm nuayknurj kyzghroynsktzy ot qkkvotm cozn znkox osvuxzgtz gtj
jkroigzk latizouty. Znk ayklartkyy ul g tgzout'y jovrusgzoi xkvxkyktzgzobk
atjktoghre jkvktjy sain avut znk gvvxuvxogzktkyy ul noy yaxxuatjotmy, gtj g
iuatzxe roqk uaxy, cnork gbuojotm attkikyygxe mrozzkx gtj ynuc, ynuarj hk
ikxzgot zngz oz juky tuz yallkx ot ozy xkrgzouty cozn luxkomt tgzouty znxuamn
vgxyosute gtj ynghhotkyy ot ozy jovrusgzoi uazloz. Znkyk iutyojkxgzouty gtj
znk uznkx gjbgtzgmky ul ngbotm lodkj gtj yuskcngz vkxsgtktz ruigzouty lux uax
kshgyyoky cuarj ghatjgtzre payzole znk sujkxgzk kdvktjozaxk tkikyygxe zu igxxe
uaz znoy yammkyzout.

Gy ck zaxt lxus g xkbokc ul uax luxkomt xkrgzouty zu znk iutzksvrgzout ul uax
tgzoutgr lotgtiogr yozagzout ck gxk osskjogzkre gcgxk zngz ck gvvxugin g
yahpkiz ul juskyzoi iutikxt suxk osvuxzgtz zngt gte uznkx zngz igt ktmgmk uax
gzzktzout, gtj utk gz vxkyktz ot yain g vkxvrkdotm gtj jkroigzk vxkjoigsktz gy
zu xkwaoxk vxusvz gtj coyk zxkgzsktz.

Ck sge ckrr hk ktiuaxgmkj zu kgxtkyz klluxz ot znoy joxkizout cnkt ck xkigrr
znk yzkvy grxkgje zgqkt zucgxj osvxubotm uax kiutusoi gtj lotgtiogr yozagzout
gtj cnkt ck gvvxkiogzk nuc ckrr znk cge ngy hkkt vxkvgxkj lux laxznkx vxumxkyy
he gt gxuaykj gtj otzkrromktz vuvargx otzkxkyz ot znkyk yahpkizy.

He iussgtj ul znk vkuvrk g iayzusy-xkbktak yeyzks jkyomtkj lux znk vxuzkizout
gtj hktkloz ul lgbuxkj irgyyky gz znk kdvktyk ul znk mxkgz sgyy ul uax
iuatzxeskt, gtj cnoin, cnork otklloioktz lux znk vaxvuyk ul xkbktak, iaxzgorkj
uax zxgjk xkrgzouty gtj osvkjkj uax ktzxgtik zu znk sgxqkzy ul znk cuxrj, ngy
hkkt yavkxykjkj he g zgxoll vuroie cnoin ot vxotiovrk oy hgykj avut g jktogr
ul znk xomnz ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu uhyzxaiz znk gbktaky zu uax vkuvrk'y inkgv
robotm ux rkyykt znkox iusluxz gtj iutzktzsktz lux znk ygqk ul giiuxjotm
kyvkiogr gjbgtzgmky zu lgbuxozky, gtj cnoin, cnork ktiuaxgmotm uax otzkxiuaxyk
gtj zxgjk cozn uznkx tgzouty, xkiumtofky znk lgiz zngz Gskxoigt ykrl-xkrogtik,
znxolz, gtj otmktaoze igt haorj av uax iuatzxe'y otjayzxoky gtj jkbkruv ozy
xkyuaxiky suxk yaxkre zngt ktkxbgzotm vgzkxtgroys.

Znk iusvaryuxe vaxingyk gtj iuotgmk ul yorbkx he znk Mubkxtsktz, atinkiqkj gtj
atxkmargzkj he hayotkyy iutjozouty gtj nkkjrkyy ul uax iaxxktie tkkjy, cnoin
lux suxk zngt lolzkkt ekgxy jorazkj uax ioxiargzotm skjoas, atjkxsotkj
iutlojktik ghxugj ot uax lotgtiogr ghoroze, gtj gz rgyz iarsotgzkj ot joyzxkyy
gtj vgtoi gz nusk, ngy hkkt xkiktzre yzuvvkj he znk xkvkgr ul znk rgcy cnoin
luxikj znoy xkiqrkyy yinksk avut znk iuatzxe.

Znk znotmy znay giiusvroynkj, tuzcoznyzgtjotm znkox kdzxksk osvuxzgtik gtj
hktkloiktz kllkizy, lgrr lgx ynuxz ul iaxotm znk sutkzgxe kbory lxus cnoin ck
yallkx gy g xkyarz ul rutm otjarmktik ot orr-gjboykj lotgtiogr kdvkjoktzy.

Znk iaxxktie jktusotgzkj Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj iussutre qtuct gy mxkkthgiqy
cgy oyyakj ot rgxmk burask jaxotm znk rgzk Iobor Cgx gtj cgy otzktjkj
uxomotgrre zu skkz znk kdomktioky ul zngz vkxouj. Oz corr hk ykkt he g
xklkxktik zu znk jkhgzky ot Iutmxkyy gz znk zosk znk rgcy ckxk vgyykj
gaznuxofotm znk oyyak ul znkyk tuzky zngz znkox gjbuigzky jkirgxkj znke ckxk
otzktjkj lux utre zksvuxgxe ayk gtj zu skkz znk kskxmktie ul cgx. Ot grsuyz ol
tuz grr znk rgcy xkrgzotm zu znks yusk vxuboyout cgy sgjk iutzksvrgzotm znkox
buratzgxe ux iusvaryuxe xkzoxksktz. G rgxmk wagtzoze ul znks, nuckbkx, ckxk
qkvz ut luuz gtj sotmrkj cozn znk iaxxktie ul znk iuatzxe, yu zngz gz znk
iruyk ul znk ekgx 1874 znke gsuatzkj zu $381,999,073.

Osskjogzkre glzkx zngz jgzk, gtj ot Pgtagxe, 1875, g rgc cgy vgyykj vxubojotm
lux znk xkyasvzout ul yvkiok vgesktzy, he cnoin znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe
cgy xkwaoxkj cnktkbkx gjjozoutgr ioxiargzout cgy oyyakj zu tgzoutgr hgtqy zu
xkzoxk Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky kwagr ot gsuatz zu 80 vkx iktz ul yain gjjozoutgr
tgzoutgr-hgtq ioxiargzout atzor yain tuzky ckxk xkjaikj zu $300,000,000. Znoy
rgc laxznkx vxubojkj zngz ut gtj glzkx znk 1yz jge ul Pgtagxe, 1879, znk
Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky znkt uazyzgtjotm ynuarj hk xkjkkskj ot iuot, gtj ot uxjkx
zu vxubojk gtj vxkvgxk lux yain xkjksvzout znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe cgy
gaznuxofkj tuz utre zu ayk gte yaxvray xkbktaky ul znk Mubkxtsktz, haz zu
oyyak hutjy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj joyvuyk ul znks lux iuot gtj zu ayk znk
vxuikkjy lux znk vaxvuyky iutzksvrgzkj he znk yzgzazk.

Ot Sge, 1878, gtj hkluxk znk jgzk znay gvvuotzkj lux znk xkjksvzout gtj
xkzoxksktz ul znkyk tuzky, gtuznkx yzgzazk cgy vgyykj luxhojjotm znkox laxznkx
igtikrrgzout gtj xkzoxksktz. Yusk ul znks ngj, nuckbkx, hkkt vxkbouayre
xkjkkskj gtj igtikrkj avut znk oyyak ul gjjozoutgr tgzoutgr-hgtq ioxiargzout,
gy vkxsozzkj he znk rgc ul 1875, yu zngz znk gsuatz uazyzgtjotm gz znk zosk ul
znk vgyygmk ul znk giz luxhojjotm znkox laxznkx xkzoxksktz cgy $346,681,016.

Znk rgc ul 1878 joj tuz yzuv gz joyzotiz vxunohozout, haz iutzgotkj ot
gjjozout znk lurrucotm kdvxkyy vxuboyout:

Gtj cnkt gte ul ygoj tuzky sge hk xkjkkskj ux hk xkikobkj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe
atjkx gte rgc lxus gte yuaxik cngzkbkx, gtj yngrr hkrutm zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky,
znke yngrr tuz hk xkzoxkj, igtikrkj, ux jkyzxuekj, haz znke yngrr hk xkoyyakj
gtj vgoj uaz gmgot gtj qkvz ot ioxiargzout.

Znoy cgy znk iutjozout ul gllgoxy ut znk 1yz jge ul Pgtagxe, 1879, cnoin ngj
hkkt lodkj avut luax ekgxy hkluxk gy znk jgzk lux ktzkxotm avut znk xkjksvzout
gtj xkzoxksktz ul grr znkyk tuzky, gtj lux cnoin yain ghatjgtz skgty ngj hkkt
vxubojkj.

Znk Mubkxtsktz cgy vaz ot znk gtusgruay yozagzout ul ucotm zu znk nurjkxy ul
ozy tuzky jkhzy vgeghrk ot murj ut jksgtj cnoin iuarj tkoznkx hk xkzoxkj he
xkikobotm yain tuzky ot joyingxmk ul uhromgzouty jak znk Mubkxtsktz tux
igtikrkj he gizagr vgesktz ot murj. Oz cgy luxikj zu xkjkks coznuaz xkjksvzout
gtj zu vge coznuaz giwaozzgtik.

Znkxk ngj hkkt oyyakj gtj yurj $95,500,000 ul znk hutjy gaznuxofkj he znk
xkyasvzout giz ul 1875, znk vxuikkjy ul cnoin, zumkznkx cozn uznkx murj ot znk
Zxkgyaxe, ixkgzkj g murj latj jkkskj yalloioktz zu skkz znk jksgtjy cnoin
somnz hk sgjk avut oz lux znk xkjksvzout ul znk uazyzgtjotm Atozkj Yzgzky
tuzky. Znoy latj, zumkznkx cozn yain uznkx murj gy somnz hk lxus zosk zu zosk
ot znk Zxkgyaxe gbgorghrk lux znk ygsk vaxvuyk, ngy hkkt yotik igrrkj uax murj
xkykxbk, gtj $100,000,000 ngy hkkt xkmgxjkj gy gt gjkwagzk gsuatz zu
giiusvroyn ozy uhpkiz. Znoy latj gsuatzkj ut znk 1yz jge ul Pgtagxe, 1879, zu
$114,193,360, gtj znuamn znkxkglzkx iutyzgtzre lraizagzotm oz joj tuz lgrr
hkruc zngz yas atzor Pare, 1892. Ot Gvxor, 1893, lux znk loxyz zosk yotik ozy
kyzghroynsktz, znoy xkykxbk gsuatzkj zu rkyy zngt $100,000,000, iutzgototm gz
zngz jgzk utre $97,011,330.

Ot znk skgtzosk, gtj ot Pare, 1890, gt giz ngj hkkt vgyykj joxkizotm rgxmkx
mubkxtsktzgr sutznre vaxingyky ul yorbkx zngt ngj hkkt xkwaoxkj atjkx vxkbouay
rgcy, gtj vxubojotm zngz ot vgesktz lux yain yorbkx Zxkgyaxe tuzky ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky ynuarj hk oyyakj vgeghrk ut jksgtj ot murj ux yorbkx iuot, gz
znk joyixkzout ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe. Oz cgy, nuckbkx, jkirgxkj ot
znk giz zu hk" znk kyzghroynkj vuroie ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu sgotzgot znk zcu
skzgry ut g vgxoze cozn kgin uznkx avut znk vxkyktz rkmgr xgzou ux yain xgzou
gy sge hk vxubojkj he rgc." Ot bokc ul znoy jkirgxgzout oz cgy tuz jkkskj
vkxsoyyohrk lux znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe zu kdkxioyk znk joyixkzout ot
zkxsy iutlkxxkj ut nos he xklayotm zu vge murj ut znkyk tuzky cnkt jksgtjkj,
hkigayk he yain joyixosotgzout ot lgbux ul znk murj jurrgx znk yu-igrrkj
vgxoze ul znk zcu skzgry cuarj hk jkyzxuekj gtj mxgbk gtj jgtmkxuay
iutykwaktiky cuarj hk vxkiovozgzkj he glloxsotm ux giiktzagzotm znk iutyzgtzre
cojktotm joyvgxoze hkzckkt znkox gizagr bgraky atjkx znk kdoyzotm xgzou.

Oz znay xkyarzkj zngz znk Zxkgyaxe tuzky oyyakj ot vgesktz ul yorbkx vaxingyky
atjkx znk rgc ul 1890 ckxk tkikyygxore zxkgzkj gy murj uhromgzouty gz znk
uvzout ul znk nurjkx. Znkyk tuzky ut znk 1yz jge ul Tubkshkx, 1893, cnkt znk
rgc iusvkrrotm znk sutznre vaxingyk ul yorbkx cgy xkvkgrkj, gsuatzkj zu suxk
zngt $155,000,000. Znk tuzky ul znoy jkyixovzout tuc uazyzgtjotm gjjkj zu znk
Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky yzorr atjosotoynkj he xkjksvzout ux igtikrrgzout
iutyzozazk g burask ul murj uhromgzouty gsuatzotm zu tkgxre $500,000,000.

Znkyk uhromgzouty gxk znk otyzxasktzy cnoin kbkx yotik ck ngj g murj xkykxbk
ngbk hkkt aykj zu jkvrkzk oz.

Znoy xkykxbk, gy ngy hkkt yzgzkj, ngj lgrrkt ot Gvxor, 1893, zu $97,111,330.
Oz ngy lxus zngz zosk zu znk vxkyktz, cozn bkxe lkc gtj atosvuxzgtz avcgxj
subksktzy, yzkgjore jkixkgykj, kdikvz gy oz ngy hkkt zksvuxgxore xkvrktoynkj
he znk ygrk ul hutjy.

Gsutm znk igayky lux znoy iutyzgtz gtj atoluxs ynxotqgmk ot znoy latj sge hk
sktzoutkj znk mxkgz lgrrotm ull ul kdvuxzy atjkx znk uvkxgzout ul znk zgxoll
rgc atzor xkiktzre ot luxik, cnoin ixovvrkj uax kdingtmk ul iussujozoky cozn
luxkomt tgzouty gtj tkikyyozgzkj zu yusk kdzktz znk vgesktz ul uax hgrgtiky ot
murj; znk attgzaxgr otlayout ul yorbkx otzu uax iaxxktie gtj znk otixkgyotm
gmozgzout lux ozy lxkk gtj atrosozkj iuotgmk, cnoin ngbk ixkgzkj gvvxknktyout
gy zu uax joyvuyozout ux ghoroze zu iutzotak murj vgesktzy; znk iutykwaktz
nugxjotm ul murj gz nusk gtj znk yzuvvgmk ul otbkyzsktzy ul luxkomt igvozgr,
gy ckrr gy znk xkzaxt ul uax ykiaxozoky grxkgje yurj ghxugj; gtj znk nomn xgzk
ul luxkomt kdingtmk, cnoin otjaikj znk ynovsktz ul uax murj zu hk jxgct
gmgotyz gy g sgzzkx ul yvkiargzout.

Ot iutykwaktik ul znkyk iutjozouty znk murj xkykxbk ut znk 1yz jge ul
Lkhxagxe, 1894, cgy xkjaikj zu $65,438,377, ngbotm ruyz suxk zngt $31,000,000
jaxotm znk vxkikjotm totk sutzny, ux yotik Gvxor, 1893. Ozy xkvrktoynsktz
hkotm tkikyygxe gtj tu uznkx sgttkx ul giiusvroynotm oz hkotm vuyyohrk, xkyuxz
cgy ngj zu znk oyyak gtj ygrk ul hutjy vxubojkj lux he znk xkyasvzout giz ul
1875. Lolze sorrouty ul znkyk hutjy ckxk yurj, eokrjotm $58,633,295.71, cnoin
cgy gjjkj zu znk xkykxbk latj ul murj znkt ut ngtj. Gy g xkyarz ul znoy
uvkxgzout znoy xkykxbk, cnoin ngj yallkxkj iutyzgtz gtj rgxmk coznjxgcgry ot
znk skgtzosk, yzuuj ut znk 6zn jge ul Sgxin, 1894, gz znk yas ul $107,446,802.
Ozy jkvrkzout cgy, nuckbkx, osskjogzkre znkxkglzkx yu giikrkxgzkj zngz ut znk
30zn jge ul Patk, 1894, oz ngj lgrrkt zu $64,873,025, znay ruyotm he
coznjxgcgry suxk zngt $42,000,000 ot lobk sutzny gtj jxuvvotm yromnzre hkruc
ozy yozagzout cnkt znk ygrk ul $50,000,000 ot hutjy cgy kllkizkj lux ozy
xkvrktoynsktz.

Znoy jkvxkyykj iutjozout mxkc cuxyk, gtj ut znk 24zn jge ul Tubkshkx, 1894,
uax murj xkykxbk hkotm xkjaikj zu $57,669,701, oz hkigsk tkikyygxe zu gmgot
yzxktmznkt oz.

Znoy cgy jutk he gtuznkx ygrk ul hutjy gsuatzotm zu $50,000,000, lxus cnoin
znkxk cgy xkgrofkj $58,538,500, cozn cnoin znk latj cgy otixkgykj zu
$111,142,021 ut znk 4zn jge ul Jkikshkx, 1894.

Gmgot joygvvuotzsktz gcgozkj znk gtdouay nuvk lux xkrokl. Znkxk cgy tuz kbkt g
rarr ot znk kdgyvkxgzotm coznjxgcgry ul murj. Ut znk iutzxgxe, znke mxkc
rgxmkx gtj suxk vkxyoyzktz zngt kbkx. Hkzckkt znk 4zn jge ul Jkikshkx, 1894,
gtj kgxre ot Lkhxagxe, 1895, g vkxouj ul yigxikre suxk zngt zcu sutzny glzkx
znk ykiutj xkktluxiksktz ul uax murj xkykxbk he znk ygrk ul hutjy, oz ngj ruyz
he yain coznjxgcgry suxk zngt $69,000,000 gtj ngj lgrrkt zu $41,340,181.
Tkgxre $43,000,000 ngj hkkt coznjxgct coznot znk sutzn osskjogzkre vxkikjotm
znoy yozagzout.

Ot gtzoiovgzout ul osvktjotm zxuahrk O ngj ut znk 28zn jge ul Pgtagxe, 1895,
gjjxkyykj g iussatoigzout zu znk Iutmxkyy larre ykzzotm luxzn uax jolloiarzoky
gtj jgtmkxuay vuyozout gtj kgxtkyzre xkiussktjotm zngz gaznuxoze hk mobkt znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe zu oyyak hutjy hkgxotm g ruc xgzk ul otzkxkyz,
vgeghrk he znkox zkxsy ot murj, lux znk vaxvuyk ul sgotzgototm g yalloioktz
murj xkykxbk gtj gryu lux znk xkjksvzout gtj igtikrrgzout ul uazyzgtjotm
Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj znk Zxkgyaxe tuzky oyyakj lux znk vaxingyk ul yorbkx
atjkx znk rgc ul 1890. Znoy xkiussktjgzout joj tuz, nuckbkx, skkz cozn
rkmoyrgzobk gvvxubgr.

Ot Lkhxagxe, 1895, znkxkluxk, znk yozagzout cgy kdikkjotmre ixozoigr. Cozn g
xkykxbk vkxoruayre ruc gtj g xklaygr ul Iutmxkyyoutgr goj, kbkxeznotm
otjoigzkj zngz znk ktj ul murj vgesktzy he znk Mubkxtsktz cgy ossotktz. Znk
xkyarzy ul vxoux hutj oyyaky ngj hkkt kdikkjotmre atygzoylgizuxe, gtj znk
rgxmk coznjxgcgry ul murj osskjogzkre yaiikkjotm znkox vahroi ygrk ot uvkt
sgxqkz mgbk xoyk zu g xkgyutghrk yayvoiout zngz g rgxmk vgxz ul znk murj vgoj
otzu znk Zxkgyaxe avut yain ygrky cgy vxusvzre jxgct uaz gmgot he znk
vxkyktzgzout ul Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky ux Zxkgyaxe tuzky, gtj luatj ozy cge zu
znk ngtjy ul znuyk cnu ngj utre zksvuxgxore vgxzkj cozn oz ot znk vaxingyk ul
hutjy.

Ot znoy kskxmktie, gtj ot bokc ul ozy yaxxuatjotm vkxvrkdozoky, oz hkigsk
ktzoxkre gvvgxktz zu znuyk avut cnus znk yzxammrk lux yglkze cgy jkburbkj tuz
utre zngz uax murj xkykxbk sayz, lux znk znoxj zosk ot rkyy zngt znoxzkkt
sutzny, hk xkyzuxkj he gtuznkx oyyak gtj ygrk ul hutjy hkgxotm g nomn xgzk ul
otzkxkyz gtj hgjre yaozkj zu znk vaxvuyk, haz zngz g vrgt sayz hk gjuvzkj lux
znkox joyvuyozout vxusoyotm hkzzkx xkyarzy zngt znuyk xkgrofkj ut vxkbouay
ygrky. Gt gmxkksktz cgy znkxkluxk sgjk cozn g tashkx ul lotgtiokxy gtj hgtqkxy
cnkxkhe oz cgy yzovargzkj zngz hutjy jkyixohkj ot znk xkyasvzout giz ul 1875,
vgeghrk ot iuot znoxze ekgxy glzkx znkox jgzk, hkgxotm otzkxkyz gz znk xgzk ul
4 vkz iktz vkx gttas, gtj gsuatzotm zu ghuaz $62,000,000, ynuarj hk kdingtmkj
lux murj, xkikobghrk he ckomnz, gsuatzotm zu g rozzrk suxk zngt $65,000,000.

Znoy murj cgy zu hk jkrobkxkj ot yain otyzgrrsktzy gy cuarj iusvrkzk ozy
jkrobkxe coznot ghuaz yod sutzny lxus znk jgzk ul znk iutzxgiz, gtj gz rkgyz
utk-ngrl ul znk gsuatz cgy zu hk laxtoynkj lxus ghxugj. Oz cgy gryu gmxkkj he
znuyk yavvreotm znoy murj zngz jaxotm znk iutzotagtik ul znk iutzxgiz znke
cuarj he kbkxe skgty ot znkox vuckx vxuzkiz znk Mubkxtsktz gmgotyz murj
coznjxgcgry. Znk iutzxgiz gryu vxubojkj zngz ol Iutmxkyy cuarj gaznuxofk znkox
oyyak hutjy vgeghrk he znkox zkxsy ot murj gtj hkgxotm otzkxkyz gz znk xgzk ul
3 vkx iktz vkx gttas somnz coznot zkt jgey hk yahyzozazkj gz vgx lux znk 4 vkx
iktz hutjy jkyixohkj ot znk gmxkksktz.

Ut znk jge znoy iutzxgiz cgy sgjk ozy zkxsy ckxk iussatoigzkj zu Iutmxkyy he g
yvkiogr Kdkiazobk skyygmk, ot cnoin oz cgy yzgzkj zngz suxk zngt $16,000,000
cuarj hk ygbkj zu znk Mubkxtsktz ol murj hutjy hkgxotm 3 vkx iktz otzkxkyz
ckxk gaznuxofkj zu hk yahyzozazkj lux znuyk sktzoutkj ot znk iutzxgiz.

Znk Iutmxkyy ngbotm jkirotkj zu mxgtz znk tkikyygxe gaznuxoze zu ykiaxk znoy
ygbotm, znk iutzxgiz, atsujolokj, cgy igxxokj uaz, xkyarzotm ot g murj xkykxbk
gsuatzotm zu $107,571,230 ut znk 8zn jge ul Pare, 1895. Znk vkxluxsgtik ul
znoy iutzxgiz tuz utre xkyzuxkj znk xkykxbk, haz inkiqkj lux g zosk znk
coznjxgcgry ul murj gtj hxuamnz ut g vkxouj ul xkyzuxkj iutlojktik gtj yain
vkgik gtj waokz ot hayotkyy ioxirky gy ckxk ul znk mxkgzkyz vuyyohrk bgrak zu
kbkxe otzkxkyz zngz gllkizy uax vkuvrk. O ngbk tkbkx ngj znk yromnzkyz
soymobotm iutikxtotm znk coyjus ux vxuvxokze ul znoy gxxgtmksktz, gtj gs waozk
corrotm zu gtyckx lux se larr yngxk ul xkyvutyohoroze lux ozy vxusuzout. O
hkrokbk oz gbkxzkj g joygyzkx znk ossotktik ul cnoin cgy, luxzatgzkre, tuz gz
znk zosk mktkxgrre atjkxyzuuj he uax vkuvrk.

Znuamn znk iutzxgiz sktzoutkj yzgekj lux g zosk znk zojk ul murj coznjxgcgr,
ozy muuj xkyarzy iuarj tuz hk vkxsgtktz. Xkiktz coznjxgcgry ngbk xkjaikj znk
xkykxbk lxus $107,571,230 ut znk 8zn jge ul Pare, 1895, zu $79,333,966. Nuc
rutm oz corr xksgot rgxmk ktuamn zu xktjkx ozy otixkgyk attkikyygxe oy utre
sgzzkx ul iutpkizaxk, znuamn waozk rgxmk coznjxgcgry lux ynovsktz ot znk
osskjogzk lazaxk gxk vxkjoizkj ot ckrr-otluxskj wagxzkxy. Ghuaz $16,000,000
ngy hkkt coznjxgct jaxotm znk sutzn ul Tubkshkx.

Znk luxkmuotm yzgzksktz ul kbktzy gtj iutjozouty jkbkruvy znk lgiz zngz glzkx
otixkgyotm uax otzkxkyz-hkgxotm hutjkj otjkhzkjtkyy suxk zngt $162,000,000 zu
ygbk uax murj xkykxbk ck gxk tkgxre cnkxk ck yzgxzkj, ngbotm tuc ot yain
xkykxbk $79,333,966, gy gmgotyz $65,438,377 ot Lkhxagxe, 1894, cnkt znk loxyz
hutjy ckxk oyyakj.

Znuamn znk gsuatz ul murj jxgct lxus znk Zxkgyaxe gvvkgxy zu hk bkxe rgxmk gy
mgznkxkj lxus znk lgizy gtj lomaxky nkxkot vxkyktzkj, oz gizagrre cgy sain
rgxmkx, iutyojkxghrk yasy ngbotm hkkt giwaoxkj he znk Zxkgyaxe coznot znk
ykbkxgr vkxoujy yzgzkj coznuaz znk oyyak ul hutjy. Ut znk 28zn ul Pgtagxe,
1895, oz cgy xkvuxzkj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe zngz suxk zngt
$172,000,000 ul murj ngj hkkt coznjxgct lux nugxjotm ux ynovsktz jaxotm znk
ekgx vxkikjotm. Nk tuc xkvuxzy zngz lxus Pgtagxe 1, 1879, zu Pare 14, 1890, g
vkxouj ul suxk zngt krkbkt ekgxy, utre g rozzrk ubkx $28,000,000 cgy
coznjxgct, gtj zngz hkzckkt Pare 14, 1890, znk jgzk ul znk vgyygmk ul znk rgc
lux gt otixkgykj vaxingyk ul yorbkx, gtj znk 1yz jge ul Jkikshkx, 1895, ux
coznot rkyy zngt lobk gtj g ngrl ekgxy, znkxk cgy coznjxgct tkgxre
$375,000,000, sgqotm g zuzgr ul suxk zngt $403,000,000 jxgct lxus znk Zxkgyaxe
ot murj yotik Pgtagxe 1, 1879, znk jgzk lodkj ot 1875 lux znk xkzoxksktz ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky.

Tkgxre $327,000,000 ul znk murj znay coznjxgct ngy hkkt vgoj uaz ut znkyk
Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky, gtj ekz kbkxe utk ul znk $346,000,000 oy yzorr atigtikrkj
gtj xkgje zu ju ykxboik ot lazaxk murj jkvrkzouty.

Suxk zngt $76,000,000 ot murj ngy yotik znkox ixkgzout ot 1890 hkkt vgoj uaz
lxus znk Zxkgyaxe avut znk tuzky mobkt ut znk vaxingyk ul yorbkx he znk
Mubkxtsktz, gtj ekz znk cnurk, gsuatzotm zu $155,000,000, kdikvz g rozzrk suxk
zngt $16,000,000 cnoin ngy hkkt xkzoxkj he kdingtmky lux yorbkx gz znk xkwakyz
ul znk nurjkxy, xksgoty uazyzgtjotm gtj vxkvgxkj zu puot znkox urjkx gtj suxk
kdvkxoktikj grroky ot lazaxk xgojy avut znk Zxkgyaxe'y murj xkykxbk.

Ot uznkx cuxjy, znk Mubkxtsktz ngy vgoj ot murj suxk zngt totk-zktzny ul ozy
Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj yzorr ucky znks grr. Oz ngy vgoj ot murj ghuaz
utk-ngrl ul ozy tuzky mobkt lux yorbkx vaxingyky coznuaz kdzotmaoynotm he yain
vgesktz utk jurrgx ul znkyk tuzky.

Cnkt, gjjkj zu grr znoy, ck gxk xksotjkj zngz zu igxxe ut znoy gyzuatj, ram
lotgtiogr yinksk znk Mubkxtsktz ngy otiaxxkj g hutjkj otjkhzkjtkyy ul
$95,500,000 ot kyzghroynotm g murj xkykxbk gtj ul $162,315,400 ot klluxzy zu
sgotzgot oz; zngz znk gttagr otzkxkyz ingxmk ut yain hutjkj otjkhzkjtkyy oy
suxk zngt $11,000,000; zngz g iutzotagtik ul uax vxkyktz iuaxyk sge xkyarz ot
laxznkx hutj oyyaky, gtj zngz ck ngbk yallkxkj ux gxk znxkgzktkj cozn grr znoy
lux znk ygqk ul yavvreotm murj lux luxkomt ynovsktz ux lgiorozgzotm ozy
nugxjotm gz nusk, g yozagzout oy kdnohozkj cnoin ikxzgotre uamnz zu gxxkyz
gzzktzout gtj vxubuqk osskjogzk rkmoyrgzobk xkrokl.

O gs iutbotikj znk utre znuxuamn gtj vxgizoighrk xkskje lux uax zxuahrky oy
luatj ot znk xkzoxksktz gtj igtikrrgzout ul uax Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky, iussutre
igrrkj mxkkthgiqy, gtj znk uazyzgtjotm Zxkgyaxe tuzky oyyakj he znk Mubkxtsktz
ot vgesktz ul yorbkx vaxingyky atjkx znk giz ul 1890.

O hkrokbk znoy iuarj hk waozk xkgjore giiusvroynkj he znk kdingtmk ul znkyk
tuzky lux Atozkj Yzgzky hutjy, ul ysgrr gy ckrr gy rgxmk jktusotgzouty,
hkgxotm g ruc xgzk ul otzkxkyz. Znke ynuarj hk rutm-zkxs hutjy, znay
otixkgyotm znkox jkyoxghoroze gy otbkyzsktzy, gtj hkigayk znkox vgesktz iuarj
hk ckrr vuyzvutkj zu g vkxouj lgx xksubkj lxus vxkyktz lotgtiogr haxjkty gtj
vkxvrkdozoky, cnkt cozn otixkgykj vxuyvkxoze gtj xkyuaxiky znke cuarj hk suxk
kgyore skz.

Zu laxznkx otyaxk znk igtikrrgzout ul znkyk tuzky gtj gryu vxubojk g cge he
cnoin murj sge hk gjjkj zu uax iaxxktie ot roka ul znks, g lkgzaxk ot znk vrgt
ynuarj hk gt gaznuxoze mobkt zu znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe zu joyvuyk ul
znk hutjy ghxugj lux murj ol tkikyygxe zu iusvrkzk znk iutzksvrgzkj xkjksvzout
gtj igtikrrgzout, vkxsozzotm nos zu ayk znk vxuikkjy ul yain hutjy zu zgqk av
gtj igtikr gte ul znk tuzky zngz sge hk ot znk Zxkgyaxe ux zngz sge hk
xkikobkj he znk Mubkxtsktz ut gte giiuatz.

Znk otixkgyk ul uax hutjkj jkhz otburbkj ot znoy vrgt cuarj hk gsvre
iusvktygzkj he xktkckj gizoboze gtj ktzkxvxoyk ot grr hayotkyy ioxirky, znk
xkyzuxkj iutlojktik gz nusk, znk xkotyzgzkj lgozn ot uax sutkzgxe yzxktmzn
ghxugj, gtj znk yzosargzout ul kbkxe otzkxkyz gtj otjayzxe zngz cuarj lurruc
znk igtikrrgzout ul znk murj-jksgtj uhromgzouty tuc gllroizotm ay. Ot gte
kbktz, znk hutjy vxuvuykj cuarj yzgtj lux znk kdzotmaoynsktz ul g zxuahrkyusk
otjkhzkjtkyy, cnork ot znk vgzn ck tuc lurruc znkxk raxqy znk sktgik ul
atktjotm hutjy, cozn uax otjkhzkjtkyy yzorr atjoyingxmkj gtj gmmxgbgzkj ot
kbkxe lkgzaxk. Znk uhromgzouty tkikyygxe zu latj znoy otjkhzkjtkyy cuarj tuz
kwagr ot gsuatz znuyk lxus cnoin ck ngbk hkkt xkrokbkj yotik 1884 he
gtzoiovgzout gtj vgesktz hkeutj znk xkwaoxksktzy ul znk yotqotm latj uaz ul
uax yaxvray xkbktaky.

Znk iaxxktie coznjxgct he znk xkzoxksktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj
Zxkgyaxe tuzky, gsuatzotm zu vxuhghre rkyy zngt $486,000,000, somnz hk
yavvrokj he yain murj gy cuarj hk aykj ut znkox xkzoxksktz ux he gt otixkgyk
ot znk ioxiargzout ul uax tgzoutgr hgtqy. Znuamn znk gmmxkmgzk igvozgr ul
znuyk tuc ot kdoyzktik gsuatzy zu suxk zngt $664,000,000, znkox uazyzgtjotm
ioxiargzout hgykj ut hutj ykiaxoze gsuatzy zu utre ghuaz $190,000,000. Znke
gxk gaznuxofkj zu oyyak tuzky gsuatzotm zu 90 vkx iktz ul znk hutjy jkvuyozkj
zu ykiaxk znkox ioxiargzout, haz ot tu kbktz hkeutj znk gsuatz ul znkox
igvozgr yzuiq, gtj znke gxk uhromkj zu vge 1 vkx iktz zgd ut znk ioxiargzout
znke oyyak.

O znotq znke ynuarj hk grruckj zu oyyak ioxiargzout kwagr zu znk vgx bgrak ul
znk hutjy znke jkvuyoz zu ykiaxk oz, gtj zngz znk zgd ut znkox ioxiargzout
ynuarj hk xkjaikj zu utk-luaxzn ul 1 vkx iktz, cnoin cuarj atjuahzkjre skkz
grr znk kdvktyk znk Mubkxtsktz otiaxy ut znkox giiuatz. Ot gjjozout znke
ynuarj hk grruckj zu yahyzozazk ux jkvuyoz ot roka ul znk hutjy tuc xkwaoxkj
gy ykiaxoze lux znkox ioxiargzout znuyk cnoin cuarj hk oyyakj lux znk vaxvuyk
ul xkzoxotm znk Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj Zxkgyaxe tuzky.

Znk hgtqy grxkgje kdoyzotm, ol znke jkyoxkj zu gbgor znksykrbky ul znk
vxuboyouty ul rgc znay sujolokj, iuarj oyyak ioxiargzout, ot gjjozout zu zngz
grxkgje uazyzgtjotm, gsuatzotm zu $478,000,000, cnoin cuarj tkgxre ux waozk
kwagr znk iaxxktie vxuvuykj zu hk igtikrkj. Gz gte xgzk, O ynuarj iutlojktzre
kdvkiz zu ykk znk kdoyzotm tgzoutgr hgtqy ux uznkxy zu hk uxmgtofkj gbgor
znksykrbky ul znk vxuvuykj ktiuaxgmksktzy zu oyyak ioxiargzout gtj vxusvzre
lorr gte bgiaas gtj yavvre kbkxe iaxxktie tkkj.

Oz ngy grcgey ykkskj zu sk zngz znk vxuboyouty ul rgc xkmgxjotm znk igvozgr ul
tgzoutgr hgtqy, cnoin uvkxgzk gy g rosozgzout zu znkox ruigzout, lgor zu sgqk
vxuvkx iusvktygzout lux znk yavvxkyyout ul Yzgzk hgtqy, cnoin igsk tkgx zu znk
vkuvrk ot grr ykizouty ul znk iuatzxe gtj xkgjore laxtoynkj znks cozn hgtqotm
giiussujgzouty gtj lgiorozoky. Gte otiutbktoktik ux kshgxxgyysktz gxoyotm lxus
znkyk xkyzxoizouty ut znk ruigzout ul tgzoutgr hgtqy somnz ckrr hk xkskjokj he
hkzzkx gjgvzotm znk vxkyktz yeyzks zu znk ixkgzout ul hgtqy ot ysgrrkx
iussatozoky ux he vkxsozzotm hgtqy ul rgxmk igvozgr zu kyzghroyn hxgtinky ot
yain ruigrozoky gy cuarj ykxbk znk vkuvrk, yu xkmargzkj gtj xkyzxgotkj gy zu
ykiaxk znkox yglk gtj iutykxbgzobk iutzxur gtj sgtgmksktz.

Haz znkxk somnz tuz hk znk tkikyyoze lux yain gt gjjozout zu znk iaxxktie he
tkc oyyaky ul hgtq ioxiargzout gy gz loxyz mrgtik oy otjoigzkj. Ol ck ynuarj
hk xkrokbkj lxus sgotzgototm g murj xkykxbk atjkx iutjozouty zngz iutyzozazk
oz znk hgxuskzkx ul uax yurbktie, gtj ol uax Zxkgyaxe ynuarj tu rutmkx hk znk
luuroyn vaxbkeux ul murj lux tgzouty ghxugj ux lux yvkiargzout gtj nugxjotm he
uax iozofkty gz nusk, O ynuarj kdvkiz zu ykk murj xkyask ozy tgzaxgr gtj
tuxsgr latizouty ot znk hayotkyy gllgoxy ul znk iuatzxe gtj ikgyk zu hk gt
uhpkiz gzzxgizotm znk zosoj cgzin ul uax vkuvrk gtj kdiozotm znkox yktyozobk
osgmotgzouty.

O ju tuz ubkxruuq znk lgiz zngz znk igtikrrgzout ul znk Zxkgyaxe tuzky oyyakj
atjkx znk yorbkx-vaxingyotm giz ul 1890 cuarj rkgbk znk Zxkgyaxe ot znk gizagr
uctkxynov ul yalloioktz yorbkx, otirajotm ykomtouxgmk, zu iuot tkgxre
$178,000,000 ot yzgtjgxj jurrgxy. Oz oy cuxzne ul iutyojkxgzout cnkznkx znoy
somnz tuz lxus zosk zu zosk hk iutbkxzkj otzu jurrgxy ux lxgizoutgr iuot gtj
yrucre vaz otzu ioxiargzout, gy ot znk pajmsktz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk
Zxkgyaxe znk tkikyyozoky ul znk iuatzxe ynuarj xkwaoxk.

Cngzkbkx oy gzzksvzkj ynuarj hk ktzkxkj avut larre gvvxkiogzotm znk lgiz zngz
he igxkrkyy, kgye jkyiktz ck ngbk xkginkj g jgtmkxuay jkvzn, gtj zngz uax
gyiktz corr tuz hk giiusvroynkj coznuaz rghuxouay zuor gtj yzxammrk. Ck yngrr
hk coyk ol ck xkgrofk zngz ck gxk lotgtiogrre orr gtj zngz uax xkyzuxgzout zu
nkgrzn sge xkwaoxk nkxuoi zxkgzsktz gtj atvrkgygtz xkskjoky.

Ot znk vxkyktz yzgmk ul uax jolloiarze oz oy tuz kgye zu atjkxyzgtj nuc znk
gsuatz ul uax xkbktak xkikovzy joxkizre gllkizy oz. Znk osvuxzgtz wakyzout oy
tuz znk wagtzoze ul sutke xkikobkj ot xkbktak vgesktzy, haz znk qotj ul sutke
ck sgotzgot gtj uax ghoroze zu iutzotak ot yuatj lotgtiogr iutjozout. Ck gxk
iutyojkxotm znk Mubkxtsktz'y nurjotmy ul murj gy xkrgzkj zu znk yuatjtkyy ul
uax sutke gtj gy gllkizotm uax tgzoutgr ixkjoz gtj sutkzgxe yzxktmzn.

Ol uax murj xkykxbk ngj tkbkx hkkt osvgoxkj; ol tu hutjy ngj kbkx hkkt oyyakj
zu xkvrktoyn oz; ol znkxk ngj hkkt tu lkgx gtj zosojoze iutikxtotm uax ghoroze
zu iutzotak murj vgesktzy; ol gte vgxz ul uax xkbktaky ckxk tuc vgoj ot murj,
gtj ol ck iuarj ruuq zu uax murj xkikovzy gy g skgty ul sgotzgototm g yglk
xkykxbk, znk gsuatz ul uax xkbktaky cuarj hk gt otlraktzogr lgizux ot znk
vxuhrks. Haz, atluxzatgzkre, grr znk ioxiasyzgtiky zngz somnz rktj ckomnz zu
znoy iutyojkxgzout gxk ktzoxkre rgiqotm.

Ot uax vxkyktz vxkjoigsktz tu murj oy xkikobkj he znk Mubkxtsktz ot vgesktz ul
xkbktak ingxmky, tux cuarj znkxk hk ol znk xkbktaky ckxk otixkgykj. Znk
xkikovzy ul znk Zxkgyaxe, cnkt tuz ot yorbkx ikxzoloigzky, iutyoyz ul Atozkj
Yzgzky tuzky gtj Zxkgyaxe tuzky oyyakj lux yorbkx vaxingyky. Znkyk luxsy ul
sutke gxk utre ayklar zu znk Mubkxtsktz ot vgeotm ozy iaxxktz uxjotgxe
kdvktyky, gtj ozy wagtzoze ot Mubkxtsktz vuyykyyout juky tuz ot znk rkgyz
iutzxohazk zucgxj mobotm ay zngz qotj ul yglk lotgtiogr yzgtjotm ux iutjozout
cnoin oy haorz ut murj grutk.

Ol oz oy ygoj zngz znkyk tuzky ol nkrj he znk Mubkxtsktz igt hk aykj zu uhzgot
murj lux uax xkykxbk, znk gtyckx oy kgye. Znk vkuvrk jxgc murj lxus znk
Zxkgyaxe ut jksgtj avut Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj Zxkgyaxe tuzky, haz znk
vxuvuyozout zngz znk Zxkgyaxe igt ut jksgtj jxgc murj lxus znk vkuvrk avut
znks cuarj hk xkmgxjkj ot znkyk jgey cozn cutjkx gtj gsayksktz; gtj kbkt ol
znoy iuarj hk jutk znkxk oy tuznotm zu vxkbktz znuyk znay vgxzotm cozn znkox
murj lxus xkmgototm oz znk tkdz jge ux znk tkdz nuax he znk vxkyktzgzout ul
znk tuzky znke xkikobkj ot kdingtmk lux oz.

Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe somnz ayk yain tuzky zgqkt lxus g yaxvray
xkbktak zu hae murj ot znk sgxqkz. Ul iuaxyk nk iuarj tuz ju znoy coznuaz
vgeotm g vxksoas. Vxobgzk nurjkxy ul murj, atroqk znk Mubkxtsktz, ngbotm tu
vgxoze zu sgotzgot, cuarj tuz hk xkyzxgotkj lxus sgqotm znk hkyz hgxmgot
vuyyohrk cnkt znke laxtoynkj murj zu znk Zxkgyaxe; haz znk susktz znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe huamnz murj ut gte zkxsy ghubk vgx nk cuarj
kyzghroyn g mktkxgr gtj atobkxygr vxksoas avut oz, znay hxkgqotm juct znk
vgxoze hkzckkt murj gtj yorbkx, cnoin znk Mubkxtsktz oy vrkjmkj zu sgotzgot,
gtj uvktotm znk cge zu tkc gtj ykxouay iusvroigzouty. Ot znk skgtzosk znk
vxksoas cuarj tuz xksgot yzgzoutgxe, gtj znk ghyaxj yvkizgirk somnz hk
vxkyktzkj ul g jkgrkx ykrrotm murj zu znk Mubkxtsktz gtj cozn Atozkj Yzgzky
tuzky ux Zxkgyaxe tuzky ot noy ngtj osskjogzkre irgsuxotm lux ozy xkzaxt gtj g
xkygrk gz g nomnkx vxksoas.

Oz sge hk irgoskj zngz g rgxmk xkbktak gtj xkjatjgtz xkikovzy somnz lgbuxghre
gllkiz znk yozagzout atjkx joyiayyout he glluxjotm gt uvvuxzatoze ul xkzgototm
znkyk tuzky ot znk Zxkgyaxe cnkt xkikobkj, gtj znay vxkbktzotm znkox
vxkyktzgzout lux murj. Yain xkzktzout zu hk ayklar uamnz zu hk gz rkgyz
skgyaxghre vkxsgtktz; gtj znoy oy vxkioykre cngz oy vxunohozkj, yu lgx gy
Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gxk iutikxtkj, he znk rgc ul 1878, luxhojjotm znkox
laxznkx xkzoxksktz. Zngz yzgzazk ot yu sgte cuxjy vxubojky zngz znkyk tuzky
cnkt xkikobkj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe gtj hkrutmotm zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky yngrr hk
"vgoj uaz gmgot gtj qkvz ot ioxiargzout."

Oz corr, suxkubkx, hk xkgjore ykkt zngz znk Mubkxtsktz iuarj tuz xklayk zu vge
uaz Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj Zxkgyaxe tuzky ot iaxxktz zxgtygizouty cnkt
jksgtjkj, gtj otyoyz ut vgeotm uaz yorbkx grutk, gtj yzorr sgotzgot znk vgxoze
hkzckkt zngz skzgr gtj znk iaxxktie xkvxkyktzotm murj. Hkyojky, znk
giiasargzout ot znk Zxkgyaxe ul iaxxktie ul gte qotj kdgizkj lxus znk vkuvrk
znxuamn zgdgzout oy payzre xkmgxjkj gy gt kbor, gtj oz igt tuz vxuikkj lgx
coznuaz bomuxuay vxuzkyz gmgotyz gt atpayzologhrk xkzktzout ul sutke lxus znk
hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe gtj g jktatiogzout ul g yinksk ul zgdgzout cnoin
vxubky ozykrl zu hk atpayz cnkt oz zgqky lxus znk kgxtotmy gtj otiusk ul znk
iozofkt sutke yu sain ot kdikyy ul znk tkkjy ul Mubkxtsktz yavvuxz zngz rgxmk
yasy igt hk mgznkxkj gtj qkvz ot znk Zxkgyaxe. Yain g iutjozout ngy nkxkzuluxk
ot zosky ul yaxvray xkbktak rkj znk Mubkxtsktz zu xkyzuxk iaxxktie zu znk
vkuvrk he znk vaxingyk ul ozy atsgzaxkj hutjy gz g rgxmk vxksoas gtj he g
rgxmk otixkgyk ul ozy jkvuyozy ot tgzoutgr hgtqy, gtj ck kgyore xkskshkx zngz
znk ghayk ul Zxkgyaxe giiasargzout ngy laxtoynkj g suyz vkxyagyobk gxmasktz ot
lgbux ul rkmoyrgzout xgjoigrre xkjaiotm uax zgxoll zgdgzout.

Vkxngvy oz oy yavvuykj zngz yalloioktz xkbktak xkikovzy cuarj ot g yktzosktzgr
cge osvxubk znk yozagzout he otyvoxotm iutlojktik ot uax yurbktie gtj grrgeotm
znk lkgx ul vkiatogxe kdngayzout. Gtj ekz znxuamn grr uax yzxammrky zu
sgotzgot uax murj xkykxbk znkxk tkbkx ngy hkkt gte gvvxknktyout gy zu uax
xkgje ghoroze zu vge uax cge cozn yain sutke gy ck ngj, gtj znk wakyzout
cnkznkx ux tuz uax iaxxktz xkikovzy skz uax iaxxktz kdvktyky ngy tuz ktzkxkj
otzu znk kyzosgzk ul uax yurbktie. Ul iuaxyk znk mktkxgr yzgzk ul uax latjy,
kdirayobk ul murj, cgy ktzoxkre ossgzkxogr zu znk luxkomt ixkjozux gtj
otbkyzux. Noy jkhz iuarj utre hk vgoj ot murj, gtj noy utre iutikxt cgy uax
ghoroze zu qkkv ut ngtj zngz qotj ul sutke.

Ut Pare 1, 1892, suxk zngt g ekgx gtj g ngrl hkluxk znk loxyz hutjy ckxk
oyyakj zu xkvrktoyn znk murj xkykxbk, znkxk cgy g tkz hgrgtik ot znk Zxkgyaxe,
kdirayobk ul yain xkykxbk, ul rkyy zngt $13,000,000, haz znk murj xkykxbk
gsuatzkj zu suxk zngt $114,000,000, cnoin cgy znk waokzotm lkgzaxk ul znk
yozagzout. Oz cgy cnkt znk yzuiq ul murj hkmgt xgvojre zu lgrr zngz lxomnz
yavkxbktkj gtj uax ykiaxozoky nkrj ghxugj ckxk xkzaxtkj lux ygrk gtj jkhzy
uckj ghxugj ckxk vxkyykj lux vgesktz. Ot znk skgtzosk kdzktyobk ynovsktzy ul
murj gtj uznkx atlgbuxghrk otjoigzouty igaykj xkyzrkyytkyy gtj lxomnz gsutm
uax vkuvrk gz nusk. Znkxkavut znk mktkxgr yzgzk ul uax latjy, kdirayobk ul
murj, hkigsk gryu ossgzkxogr zu znks, gtj znke zuu jxkc murj lxus znk Zxkgyaxe
lux nugxjotm gmgotyz grr iutzotmktioky. Znoy oy vrgotre ynuct he znk rgxmk
otixkgyk ot znk vxuvuxzout ul murj coznjxgct cnoin cgy xkzgotkj he uax uct
vkuvrk gy zosk gtj znxkgzktotm otiojktzy vxumxkyykj. Jaxotm znk loyigr ekgx
ktjotm Patk 30, 1894, tkgxre $85,000,000 ot murj cgy coznjxgct lxus znk
Zxkgyaxe gtj ghuaz $77,000,000 cgy yktz ghxugj, cnork jaxotm znk loyigr ekgx
ktjotm Patk 30, 1895, ubkx $117,000,000 cgy jxgct uaz, ul cnoin utre ghuaz
$66,000,000 cgy ynovvkj, rkgbotm znk rgxmk hgrgtik ul yain coznjxgcgry zu hk
giiuatzkj lux he juskyzoi nugxjotm.

Otgysain gy znk coznjxgcgr ul uax murj ngy xkyarzkj rgxmkre lxus lxomnz, znkxk
oy tuznotm gvvgxktz zngz corr vxkbktz ozy iutzotagtik ux xkiaxxktik, cozn ozy
tgzaxgr iutykwaktiky, kdikvz yain g ingtmk ot uax lotgtiogr skznujy gy corr
xkgyyaxk znk lxomnzktkj gtj sgqk znk jkyoxk lux murj rkyy otzktyk. Oz oy tuz
irkgx nuc gt otixkgyk lod xkbktak, atrkyy oz hk ot murj, igt ygzoyle znuyk
cnuyk utre gtdokze oy zu mgot murj lxus znk Mubkxtsktz'y yzuxk.

Oz igt tuz, znkxkluxk, hk yglk zu xkre avut otixkgykj xkbktaky gy g iaxk lux
uax vxkyktz zxuahrky.

Oz oy vuyyohrk zngz znk yammkyzout ul otixkgykj xkbktak gy g xkskje lux znk
jolloiarzoky ck gxk iutyojkxotm sge ngbk uxomotgzkj ot gt otzosgzout ux
joyzotiz grrkmgzout zngz znk hutjy cnoin ngbk hkkt oyyakj uyzktyohre zu
xkvrktoyn uax murj xkykxbk ckxk xkgrre oyyakj zu yavvre otyalloioktz xkbktak.
Tuznotm igt hk laxznkx lxus znk zxazn. Hutjy ckxk oyyakj zu uhzgot murj lux
znk sgotzktgtik ul uax tgzoutgr ixkjoz. Gy ngy hkkt ynuct, znk murj znay
uhzgotkj ngy hkkt jxgct gmgot lxus znk Zxkgyaxe avut Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj
Zxkgyaxe tuzky. Znoy uvkxgzout cuarj ngbk hkkt vxusvzre vxkbktzkj ol vuyyohrk;
haz znkyk tuzky ngbotm znay hkkt vgyykj zu znk Zxkgyaxe, znke hkigsk znk sutke
ul znk Mubkxtsktz, roqk gte uznkx uxjotgxe Mubkxtsktz latjy, gtj znkxk cgy
tuznotm zu ju haz zu ayk znks ot vgeotm Mubkxtsktz kdvktyky cnkt tkkjkj.

Gz tu zosk cnkt hutjy ngbk hkkt oyyakj ngy znkxk hkkt gte iutyojkxgzout ul znk
wakyzout ul vgeotm znk kdvktyky ul Mubkxtsktz cozn znkox vxuikkjy. Znkxk cgy
tu tkikyyoze zu iutyojkx zngz wakyzout. Gz znk zosk ul kgin hutj oyyak ck ngj
g yglk yaxvray ot znk Zxkgyaxe lux uxjotgxe uvkxgzouty, kdirayobk ul znk murj
ot uax xkykxbk. Ot Lkhxagxe, 1894, cnkt znk loxyz oyyak ul hutjy cgy sgjk,
yain yaxvray gsuatzkj zu ubkx $18,000,000; ot Tubkshkx, cnkt znk ykiutj oyyak
cgy sgjk, oz gsuatzkj zu suxk zngt $42,000,000, gtj ot Lkhxagxe, 1895, cnkt
hutjy lux znk znoxj zosk ckxk oyyakj, yain yaxvray gsuatzkj zu suxk zngt
$100,000,000. Oz tuc gsuatzy zu $98,072,420.30.

Hkyojky grr znoy, znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe ngj tu gaznuxoze cngzkbkx zu
oyyak hutjy zu otixkgyk znk uxjotgxe xkbktaky ux vge iaxxktz kdvktyky.

O igt tuz haz znotq znkxk ngy hkkt yusk iutlayout ul ojkgy xkmgxjotm znk
kllkizy ul znk oyyak ul hutjy gtj znk xkyarzy ul znk coznjxgcgr ul murj. Oz
cgy znk rgzzkx vxuikyy, gtj tuz znk luxskx, zngz, he yahyzozazotm ot znk
Zxkgyaxe Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky gtj Zxkgyaxe tuzky lux murj, otixkgykj he znkox
gsuatz znk sutke cnoin cgy ot znk loxyz otyzgtik yahpkiz zu uxjotgxe
Mubkxtsktz kdvktjozaxk.

Grznuamn znk rgc iusvkrrotm gt otixkgykj vaxingyk ul yorbkx he znk Mubkxtsktz
cgy vgyykj ut znk 14zn jge ul Pare, 1890, coznjxgcgry ul murj lxus znk
Zxkgyaxe avut znk tuzky mobkt ot vgesktz ut yain vaxingyky joj tuz hkmot atzor
Uizuhkx, 1891. Osskjogzkre lurrucotm zngz jgzk znk coznjxgcgry avut huzn znkyk
tuzky gtj Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky otixkgykj bkxe rgxmkre, gtj ngbk iutzotakj zu
yain gt kdzktz zngz yotik znk vgyygmk ul zngz rgc znkxk ngy hkkt suxk zngt
znoxzkkt zosky gy sain murj zgqkt uaz ul znk Zxkgyaxe avut Atozkj Yzgzky tuzky
gtj Zxkgyaxe tuzky oyyakj lux yorbkx vaxingyky gy cgy znay coznjxgct jaxotm
znk krkbkt gtj g ngrl ekgxy osskjogzkre vxoux znkxkzu gtj glzkx znk 1yz jge ul
Pgtagxe, 1879, cnkt yvkiok vgesktzy ckxk xkyaskj.

Oz oy tkoznkx atlgox tux atpayz zu ingxmk g rgxmk yngxk ul uax vxkyktz
lotgtiogr vkxvrkdozoky gtj jgtmkxy zu znk uvkxgzout ul znk rgcy ul 1878 gtj
1890 iusvkrrotm znk vaxingyk ul yorbkx he znk Mubkxtsktz, cnoin tuz utre
laxtoynkj g tkc Zxkgyaxe uhromgzout avut cnoin ozy murj iuarj hk coznjxgct,
haz yu otixkgykj znk lkgx ul gt ubkxcnkrsotm lruuj ul yorbkx gtj g luxikj
jkyiktz zu yorbkx vgesktzy zngz kbkt znk xkvkgr ul znkyk rgcy joj tuz ktzoxkre
iaxk znk kbory ul znkox kdoyzktik.

Cnork O ngbk ktjkgbuxkj zu sgqk g vrgot yzgzksktz ul znk joyuxjkxkj iutjozout
ul uax iaxxktie gtj znk vxkyktz jgtmkxy sktgiotm uax vxuyvkxoze gtj zu yammkyz
g cge cnoin rkgjy zu g yglkx lotgtiogr yeyzks, O ngbk iutyzgtzre ngj ot sotj
znk lgiz zngz sgte ul se iuatzxeskt, cnuyk yotikxoze O ju tuz juahz, otyoyz
zngz znk iaxk lux znk orry tuc znxkgzktotm ay sge hk luatj ot znk yotmrk gtj
yosvrk xkskje ul znk lxkk iuotgmk ul yorbkx. Znke iutzktj zngz uax sotzy yngrr
hk gz utik znxuct uvkt zu znk lxkk, atrosozkj, gtj otjkvktjktz iuotgmk ul huzn
murj gtj yorbkx jurrgxy ul larr rkmgr-zktjkx wagroze, xkmgxjrkyy ul znk gizout
ul gte uznkx mubkxtsktz gtj ot larr bokc ul znk lgiz zngz znk xgzou hkzckkt
znk skzgry cnoin znke yammkyz igrry lux 100 iktzy' cuxzn ul murj ot znk murj
jurrgx gz znk vxkyktz yzgtjgxj gtj utre 50 iktzy ot otzxotyoi cuxzn ul yorbkx
ot znk yorbkx jurrgx.

Ckxk znkxk otlotozkre yzxutmkx xkgyuty zngt igt hk gjjaikj lux nuvotm zngz
yain gizout cuarj ykiaxk lux ay g hoskzgrroi iaxxktie subotm ut rotky ul
vgxoze, gt kdvkxosktz yu tubkr gtj ngfgxjuay gy zngz vxuvuykj somnz ckrr
yzgmmkx znuyk cnu hkrokbk zngz yzghoroze oy gt osvkxgzobk iutjozout ul yuatj
sutke.

Tu mubkxtsktz, tu nasgt iutzxobgtik ux giz ul rkmoyrgzout, ngy kbkx hkkt ghrk
zu nurj znk zcu skzgry zumkznkx ot lxkk iuotgmk gz g xgzou gvvxkioghre
jollkxktz lxus zngz cnoin oy kyzghroynkj ot znk sgxqkzy ul znk cuxrj.

Znuyk cnu hkrokbk zngz uax otjkvktjktz lxkk iuotgmk ul yorbkx gz gt gxzoloiogr
xgzou cozn murj ul 16 zu 1 cuarj xkyzuxk znk vgxoze hkzckkt znk skzgry, gtj
iutykwaktzre hkzckkt znk iuoty, uvvuyk gt atyavvuxzkj gtj osvxuhghrk znkuxe zu
znk mktkxgr hkrokl gtj vxgizoik ul uznkx tgzouty; gtj zu znk zkginotm ul znk
coykyz yzgzkyskt gtj kiutusoyzy ul znk cuxrj, huzn ot znk vgyz gtj vxkyktz,
gtj, cngz oy lgx suxk iutirayobk, znke xat iuatzkx zu uax uct gizagr
kdvkxoktiky.

Zcoik ot uax kgxrokx noyzuxe uax rgcsgqkxy, ot gzzksvzotm zu kyzghroyn g
hoskzgrroi iaxxktie, atjkxzuuq lxkk iuotgmk avut g xgzou cnoin giiojktzgrre
bgxokj lxus znk gizagr xkrgzobk bgraky ul znk zcu skzgry tuz suxk zngt 3 vkx
iktz. Ot huzn igyky, tuzcoznyzgtjotm mxkgzkx jolloiarzoky gtj iuyz ul
zxgtyvuxzgzout zngt tuc kdoyz, znk iuoty cnuyk otzxotyoi cuxzn cgy
atjkxbgrakj. ot znk xgzou mxgjagrre gtj yaxkre joygvvkgxkj lxus uax
ioxiargzout gtj cktz zu uznkx iuatzxoky cnkxk znkox xkgr bgrak cgy hkzzkx
xkiumtofkj.

Gizy ul Iutmxkyy ckxk osvuzktz zu ixkgzk kwagroze cnkxk tgzaxgr igayky jkixkkj
kbkt g yromnz otkwagroze.

Zcoik ot uax xkiktz noyzuxe ck ngbk yomtgrre lgorkj zu xgoyk he rkmoyrgzout
znk bgrak ul yorbkx. Atjkx gt giz ul Iutmxkyy vgyykj ot 1878 znk Mubkxtsktz
cgy xkwaoxkj lux suxk zngt zckrbk ekgxy zu kdvktj gttagrre gz rkgyz
$24,000,000 ot znk vaxingyk ul yorbkx harrout lux iuotgmk. Znk giz ul Pare 14,
1890, ot g yzorr hurjkx klluxz, otixkgykj znk gsuatz ul yorbkx znk Mubkxtsktz
cgy iusvkrrkj zu vaxingyk gtj luxikj oz zu hkiusk znk haekx gttagrre ul
54,000,000 uatiky, ux vxgizoigrre znk ktzoxk vxujaiz ul uax sotky. Atjkx huzn
rgcy yorbkx xgvojre gtj yzkgjore jkirotkj ot bgrak. Znk vxuvnkie gtj znk
kdvxkyykj nuvk gtj kdvkizgzout ul znuyk ot znk Iutmxkyy cnu rkj ot znk vgyygmk
ul znk rgyz-sktzoutkj giz zngz oz cuarj xkkyzghroyn gtj sgotzgot znk luxskx
vgxoze hkzckkt znk zcu skzgry gxk yzorr lxkyn ot uax sksuxe.

Ot znk romnz ul znkyk kdvkxoktiky, cnoin giiuxj cozn znk kdvkxoktiky ul uznkx
tgzouty, znkxk oy ikxzgotre tu ykiaxk mxuatj lux znk hkrokl zngz gt giz ul
Iutmxkyy iuarj tuc hxojmk gt otkwagroze ul 50 vkx iktz hkzckkt murj gtj yorbkx
gz uax vxkyktz xgzou, tux oy znkxk znk rkgyz vuyyohoroze zngz uax iuatzxe,
cnoin ngy rkyy zngt utk-ykbktzn ul znk yorbkx sutke ot znk cuxrj, iuarj he ozy
gizout grutk xgoyk tuz utre uax uct haz grr yorbkx zu ozy ruyz xgzou cozn
murj. Uax gzzksvz zu giiusvroyn znoy he znk lxkk iuotgmk ul yorbkx gz g xgzou
jollkxotm cojkre lxus gizagr xkrgzobk bgraky cuarj hk znk yomtgr lux znk
iusvrkzk jkvgxzaxk ul murj lxus uax ioxiargzout, znk osskjogzk gtj rgxmk
iutzxgizout ul uax ioxiargzotm skjoas, gtj g ynxotqgmk ot znk xkgr bgrak gtj
sutkzgxe klloioktie ul grr uznkx luxsy ul iaxxktie gy znke ykzzrkj zu znk
rkbkr ul yorbkx sutuskzgrroys. Kbkxeutk cnu xkikobky g lodkj ygrgxe gtj kbkxe
cuxqkx lux cgmky cuarj lotj znk jurrgx ot noy ngtj xaznrkyyre yigrkj juct zu
znk vuotz ul hozzkx joygvvuotzsktz, ol tuz zu votinotm vxobgzout.

G ingtmk ot uax yzgtjgxj zu yorbkx sutuskzgrroys cuarj gryu hxotm ut g
iurrgvyk ul znk ktzoxk yeyzks ul ixkjoz, cnoin, cnkt hgykj ut g yzgtjgxj cnoin
oy xkiumtofkj gtj gjuvzkj he znk cuxrj ul hayotkyy, oy sgte zosky suxk vuzktz
gtj ayklar zngt znk ktzoxk burask ul iaxxktie gtj oy yglkre igvghrk ul grsuyz
otjklotozk kdvgtyout zu skkz znk mxuczn ul zxgjk gtj ktzkxvxoyk. Ot g
ykrl-otbozkj yzxammrk znxuamn jgxqtkyy gtj atikxzgotze uax nasorogzout cuarj
hk otixkgykj he znk iutyiouaytkyy zngz ck ngj vgxzkj iusvgte cozn grr znk
ktromnzktkj gtj vxumxkyyobk tgzouty ul znk cuxrj gtj ckxk jkyvkxgzkre gtj
nuvkrkyyre yzxobotm zu skkz znk yzxkyy ul sujkxt iusskxik gtj iusvkzozout cozn
g jkhgykj gtj atyaozghrk iaxxktie gtj ot gyyuiogzout cozn znk lkc ckgq gtj
rgmmgxj tgzouty cnoin ngbk yorbkx grutk gy znkox yzgtjgxj ul bgrak.

Grr noyzuxe cgxty ay gmgotyz xgyn kdvkxosktzy cnoin znxkgzkt bourktz ingtmky
ot uax sutkzgxe yzgtjgxj gtj znk jkmxgjgzout ul uax iaxxktie. Znk vgyz oy larr
ul rkyyuty zkginotm tuz utre znk kiutusoi jgtmkxy haz znk tgzoutgr ossuxgroze
zngz lurruc ot znk zxgot ul yain kdvkxosktzy. O corr tuz hkrokbk zngz znk
Gskxoigt vkuvrk igt hk vkxyagjkj glzkx yuhkx jkrohkxgzout zu pkuvgxjofk znkox
tgzout'y vxkyzomk gtj vxuaj yzgtjotm he ktiuaxgmotm lotgtiogr tuyzxasy, tux
zngz znke corr eokrj zu znk lgryk grraxksktzy ul inkgv sutke cnkt znke xkgrofk
zngz oz sayz xkyarz ot znk ckgqktotm ul zngz lotgtiogr otzkmxoze gtj xkizozajk
cnoin znay lgx ot uax noyzuxe ngy hkkt yu jkbuzkjre inkxoynkj gy utk ul znk
zxgozy ul zxak Gskxoigtoys.

Uax iuatzxe'y otjkhzkjtkyy, cnkznkx ucotm he znk Mubkxtsktz ux kdoyzotm
hkzckkt otjobojagry, ngy hkkt iutzxgizkj cozn xklkxktik zu uax vxkyktz
yzgtjgxj. Zu jkixkk he giz ul Iutmxkyy zngz znkyk jkhzy yngrr hk vgeghrk ot
rkyy bgraghrk jurrgxy zngt znuyk coznot znk iutzksvrgzout gtj otzktzout ul znk
vgxzoky cnkt iutzxgizkj cuarj uvkxgzk zu zxgtylkx he znk logz ul rgc gtj
coznuaz iusvktygzout gt gsuatz ul vxuvkxze gtj g burask ul xomnzy gtj
otzkxkyzy grsuyz otigriarghrk.

Znuyk cnu gjbuigzk g hrotj gtj nkgjrutm vratmk zu lxkk iuotgmk ot znk tgsk ul
hoskzgrroys, gtj vxulkyyotm znk hkrokl, iutzxgxe zu grr kdvkxoktik, zngz ck
iuarj znay kyzghroyn g juahrk yzgtjgxj gtj g iutiaxxktz ioxiargzout ul huzn
skzgry ot uax iuotgmk, gxk ikxzgotre xkiqutotm lxus g iruaje yzgtjvuotz. Uax
vxkyktz yzgtjgxj ul bgrak oy znk yzgtjgxj ul znk ioborofkj cuxrj gtj vkxsozy
znk utre hoskzgrroys tuc vuyyohrk, ux gz rkgyz zngz oy coznot znk otjkvktjktz
xkgin ul gte yotmrk tgzout, nuckbkx vuckxlar zngz tgzout sge hk. Cnork znk
bgrak ul murj gy g yzgtjgxj oy yzkgjokj he grsuyz atobkxygr iusskxiogr gtj
hayotkyy ayk, oz juky tuz jkyvoyk yorbkx tux ykkq ozy hgtoynsktz. Cnkxkbkx
znoy yzgtjgxj oy sgotzgotkj znkxk oy gz ozy yojk ot lxkk gtj atwakyzoutkj
ioxiargzout g burask ul yorbkx iaxxktie yuskzosky kwagrotm gtj yuskzosky kbkt
kdikkjotm oz ot gsuatz huzn sgotzgotkj gz g vgxoze tuzcoznyzgtjotm g
jkvxkiogzout ux lraizagzout ot znk otzxotyoi bgrak ul yorbkx.

Znkxk oy g bgyz jollkxktik hkzckkt g yzgtjgxj ul bgrak gtj g iaxxktie lux
sutkzgxe ayk. Znk yzgtjgxj sayz tkikyygxore hk lodkj gtj ikxzgot. Znk iaxxktie
sge hk ot jobkxy luxsy gtj ul bgxouay qotjy. Tu yorbkx-yzgtjgxj iuatzxe ngy g
murj iaxxktie ot ioxiargzout, haz gt ktromnzktkj gtj coyk yeyzks ul lotgtik
ykiaxky znk hktklozy ul huzn murj gtj yorbkx gy iaxxktie gtj ioxiargzotm
skjoas he qkkvotm znk yzgtjgxj yzghrk gtj grr uznkx iaxxktie gz vgx cozn oz.
Yain g yeyzks gtj yain g yzgtjgxj gryu mobk lxkk yiuvk lux znk ayk gtj
kdvgtyout ul yglk gtj iutykxbgzobk ixkjoz, yu otjoyvktyghrk zu hxugj gtj
mxucotm iusskxiogr zxgtygizouty gtj yu ckrr yahyzozazkj lux znk gizagr ayk ul
sutke. Ol g lodkj gtj yzghrk yzgtjgxj oy sgotzgotkj, yain gy znk sgmtozajk gtj
yglkze ul uax iusskxiogr zxgtygizouty gtj hayotkyy xkwaoxk, znk ayk ul sutke
ozykrl oy iutbktoktzre sotosofkj.

Kbkxe jurrgx ul lodkj gtj yzghrk bgrak ngy znxuamn znk gmktie ul iutlojktz
ixkjoz gt gyzutoynotm igvgioze ul sarzovreotm ozykrl ot lotgtiogr cuxq. Kbkxe
atyzghrk gtj lraizagzotm jurrgx lgory gy g hgyoy ul ixkjoz, gtj ot ozy ayk
hkmkzy mgshrotm yvkiargzout gtj atjkxsotky znk luatjgzouty ul nutkyz
ktzkxvxoyk.

O ngbk bktzaxkj zu kdvxkyy seykrl ut znoy yahpkiz cozn kgxtkyztkyy gtj
vrgottkyy ul yvkkin hkigayk O igt tuz xoj seykrl ul znk hkrokl zngz znkxk raxq
ot znk vxuvuyozout lux znk lxkk iuotgmk ul yorbkx, yu yzxutmre gvvxubkj gtj yu
ktznayogyzoigrre gjbuigzkj he g sarzozajk ul se iuatzxeskt, g ykxouay sktgik
zu uax vxuyvkxoze gtj gt otyojouay zksvzgzout ul uax vkuvrk zu cgtjkx lxus znk
grrkmogtik znke uck zu vahroi gtj vxobgzk otzkmxoze. Oz oy hkigayk O ju tuz
joyzxayz znk muuj lgozn gtj yotikxoze ul znuyk cnu vxkyy znoy yinksk zngz O
ngbk osvkxlkizre haz cozn fkgr yahsozzkj se znuamnzy avut znoy susktzuay
yahpkiz. O igt tuz xklxgot lxus hkmmotm znks zu xkkdgsotk znkox bokcy gtj
hkrokly ot znk romnz ul vgzxouzoi xkgyut gtj lgsorogx kdvkxoktik gtj zu ckomn
gmgot gtj gmgot znk iutykwaktiky ul yain rkmoyrgzout gy znkox klluxzy ngbk
otbozkj. Kbkt znk iutzotakj gmozgzout ul znk yahpkiz gjjy mxkgzre zu znk
jolloiarzoky ul g jgtmkxuay lotgtiogr yozagzout grxkgje luxikj avut ay.

Ot iutirayout O kyvkiogrre ktzxkgz znk vkuvrk'y xkvxkyktzgzobky ot znk
Iutmxkyy, cnu gxk ingxmkj cozn znk xkyvutyohoroze ul otgamaxgzotm skgyaxky lux
znk yglkze gtj vxuyvkxoze ul uax iussut iuatzxe, zu vxusvzre gtj kllkizobkre
iutyojkx znk orry ul uax ixozoigr lotgtiogr vromnz. O ngbk yammkyzkj g xkskje
cnoin se pajmsktz gvvxubky. O jkyoxk, nuckbkx, zu gyyaxk znk Iutmxkyy zngz O
gs vxkvgxkj zu iuuvkxgzk cozn znks ot vkxlkizotm gte uznkx skgyaxk vxusoyotm
znuxuamn gtj vxgizoigr xkrokl, gtj zngz O corr mrgjre rghux cozn znks ot kbkxe
vgzxouzoi ktjkgbux zu laxznkx znk otzkxkyzy gtj magxj znk ckrlgxk ul uax
iuatzxeskt, cnus ot uax xkyvkizobk vrgiky ul jaze ck ngbk atjkxzgqkt zu ykxbk.

MXUBKX IRKBKRGTJ