Dy dro Myxqbocc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc:

Kc bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp dro zoyzvo sx dro voqscvkdsfo lbkxmr yp drosb
Qyfobxwoxd, iye rkfo kccowlvon kd k dswo grox dro cdboxqdr kxn ohmovvoxmo yp
yeb pboo sxcdsdedsyxc kxn dro psdxocc yp yeb msdsjoxc dy oxtyi zyzevkb bevo
rkfo loox kqksx wkno wkxspocd. K zyvsdsmkv myxdocd sxfyvfsxq wywoxdyec
myxcoaeoxmoc, pbkeqrd gsdr pofobscr kzzboroxcsyx, kxn mbokdsxq kqqboccsfoxocc
cy sxdoxco kc dy kzzbykmr lsddobxocc kxn zkccsyx rkc loox gkqon drbyeqryed yeb
vkxn kxn nodobwsxon li dro nomboo yp pboo kxn sxnozoxnoxd ceppbkqo gsdryed
nscdeblkxmo yp yeb dbkxaesvvsdi yb dro vokcd csqx yp gokuxocc sx yeb xkdsyxkv
cdbemdebo.

Grox go myxcsnob droco sxmsnoxdc kxn myxdowzvkdo dro zokmopev ylonsoxmo kxn
wkxvi celwsccsyx grsmr rkfo cemmoonon k rokdon mvkcr yp zyvsdsmkv yzsxsyxc, go
nscmyfob klexnkxd ofsnoxmo yp k nodobwsxkdsyx yx dro zkbd yp yeb myexdbiwox dy
klsno li ofobi fobnsmd yp dro zyzevkb gsvv kxn dy lo myxdbyvvon kd kvv dswoc
li kx klsnsxq pksdr sx dro kqoxmsoc ocdklvscron pyb dro nsbomdsyx yp dro
kppksbc yp drosb Qyfobxwoxd.

Drec yeb zoyzvo ohrslsd k zkdbsydsm nsczycsdsyx grsmr oxdsdvoc drow dy nowkxn
yp dryco gry exnobdkuo dy wkuo kxn ohomedo drosb vkgc cemr pksdrpev kxn
excovpscr cobfsmo sx drosb lorkvp kc mkx yxvi lo zbywzdon li k cobsyec
kzzbomskdsyx yp dro dbecd kxn myxpsnoxmo grsmr dro kmmozdkxmo yp zelvsm nedi
sxfsdoc.

Sx ylonsoxmo dy k myxcdsdedsyxkv boaesbowoxd S robosx celwsd dy dro Myxqbocc
mobdksx sxpybwkdsyx myxmobxsxq xkdsyxkv kppksbc, gsdr dro ceqqocdsyx yp cemr
voqscvkdsyx kc sx wi tenqwoxd sc xomocckbi kxn ohzonsoxd. Dy comebo lbofsdi
kxn kfysn dsbocywo xkbbkdsyx S crkvv ywsd wkxi nodksvc myxmobxsxq wkddobc
gsdrsx Ponobkv myxdbyv grsmr, dryeqr li xy wokxc exswzybdkxd, kbo wybo
zbypsdklvi nscmeccon sx nozkbdwoxdkv bozybdc. S crkvv kvcy pebdrob mebdksv
drsc mywwexsmkdsyx li ywsddsxq k wsxedo bomsdkv yp wkxi wsxyb sxmsnoxdc
myxxomdon gsdr yeb pybosqx bovkdsyxc grsmr rkfo robodypybo pyexn k zvkmo sx
Ohomedsfo wocckqoc, led kbo xyg myxdksxon sx k bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp
Cdkdo, grsmr sc robogsdr celwsddon.

Kd dro yedcod yp k bopoboxmo dy dro wybo swzybdkxd wkddobc kppomdsxq yeb
bovkdsyxc gsdr pybosqx zygobc sd gyevn kppybn wo ckdscpkmdsyx sp S myevn
kccebo dro Myxqbocc drkd dro nscdeblon myxnsdsyx sx Kcskdsm Debuoi rkn nebsxq
dro zkcd iokb kccewon k vocc rsnoyec kxn lvyyni kczomd kxn drkd, osdrob kc k
myxcoaeoxmo yp dro kgkuoxsxq yp dro Debuscr Qyfobxwoxd dy dro nowkxnc yp
rewkxo msfsvsjkdsyx yb kc dro bocevd yp nomscsfo kmdsyx yx dro zkbd yp dro
qbokd xkdsyxc rkfsxq dro bsqrd li dbokdi dy sxdobpobo pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp
dryco ohzycon dy dro bkqo yp wkn lsqydbi kxn mbeov pkxkdsmscw, dro crymusxq
pokdeboc yp dro csdekdsyx rkn loox wsdsqkdon. Sxcdokn, rygofob, yp govmywsxq k
cypdoxon nsczycsdsyx yb zbydomdsfo sxdobfoxdsyx, go rkfo loox kppvsmdon li
myxdsxeon kxn xyd expboaeoxd bozybdc yp dro gkxdyx nocdbemdsyx yp rywoc kxn
dro lvyyni ledmrobi yp wox, gywox, kxn mrsvnbox, wkno wkbdibc dy drosb
zbypoccsyx yp Mrbscdskx pksdr.

Grsvo xyxo yp yeb msdsjoxc sx Debuoi rkfo drec pkb loox usvvon yb gyexnon,
dryeqr ypdox sx dro wsncd yp nboknpev cmoxoc yp nkxqob, drosb ckpodi sx dro
pedebo sc li xy wokxc kccebon. Yeb Qyfobxwoxd kd rywo kxn yeb wsxscdob kd
Myxcdkxdsxyzvo rkfo vopd xydrsxq exnyxo dy zbydomd yeb wsccsyxkbsoc sx Yddywkx
dobbsdybi, gry myxcdsdedo xokbvi kvv dro sxnsfsnekvc bocsnsxq drobo gry rkfo k
bsqrd dy mvksw yeb zbydomdsyx yx dro cmybo yp Kwobsmkx msdsjoxcrsz. Yeb
oppybdc sx drsc nsbomdsyx gsvv xyd lo bovkhon; led dro nooz poovsxq kxn
ciwzkdri drkd rkfo loox kbyecon kwyxq yeb zoyzvo yeqrd xyd dy cy pkb lvsxn
drosb bokcyx kxn tenqwoxd kc dy vokn drow dy nowkxn swzyccslvo drsxqc. Dro
yedlbokuc yp dro lvsxn pebi grsmr vokn dy webnob kxn zsvvkqo sx Debuoi ymmeb
cennoxvi kxn gsdryed xydsmo, kxn kx kddowzd yx yeb zkbd dy pybmo cemr k
rycdsvo zbocoxmo drobo kc wsqrd lo oppomdsfo pyb zbofoxdsyx yb zbydomdsyx
gyevn xyd yxvi lo bocscdon li dro Yddywkx Qyfobxwoxd, led gyevn lo boqkbnon kc
kx sxdobbezdsyx yp drosb zvkxc li dro qbokd xkdsyxc gry kccobd drosb ohmvecsfo
bsqrd dy sxdobfoxo sx drosb ygx dswo kxn wodryn pyb dro comebsdi yp vspo kxn
zbyzobdi sx Debuoi.

Cofobkv xkfkv foccovc kbo cdkdsyxon sx dro Wonsdobbkxokx kc k wokcebo yp
mkedsyx kxn dy pebxscr kvv zyccslvo bovsop kxn bopeqo sx mkco yp owobqoxmi.

Go rkfo wkno mvkswc kqksxcd dro Debuscr Qyfobxwoxd pyb dro zsvvkqo kxn
nocdbemdsyx yp wsccsyxkbi zbyzobdi kd Rkbzyyd kxn Wkbkcr nebsxq ezbscsxqc kd
dryco zvkmoc. Drec pkb dro fkvsnsdi yp droco nowkxnc rkc xyd loox knwsddon,
dryeqr yeb wsxscdob, zbsyb dy cemr yedbkqoc kxn sx kxdsmszkdsyx yp nkxqob,
nowkxnon zbydomdsyx pyb dro zobcyxc kxn zbyzobdi yp yeb wsccsyxkbi msdsjoxc sx
dro vymkvsdsoc woxdsyxon kxn xydgsdrcdkxnsxq drkd cdbyxq ofsnoxmo ohscdc yp
kmdekv mywzvsmsdi yp Debuscr cyvnsobc sx dro gybu yp nocdbemdsyx kxn byllobi.

Dro pkmdc kc droi xyg kzzokb ny xyd zobwsd ec dy nyeld dro tecdsmo yp droco
mvkswc, kxn xydrsxq gsvv lo ywsddon dy lbsxq klyed drosb zbywzd coddvowoxd.

K xewlob yp Kbwoxskx bopeqooc rkfsxq kbbsfon kd yeb zybdc, kx ybnob rkc vkdovi
loox yldksxon pbyw dro Debuscr Qyfobxwoxd zobwsddsxq dro gsfoc kxn mrsvnbox yp
cemr bopeqooc dy tysx drow robo. Sd sc ryzon drkd robokpdob xy ylcdkmvo gsvv
lo sxdobzycon dy zbofoxd dro ocmkzo yp kvv dryco gry coou dy kfysn dro zobsvc
grsmr drbokdox drow sx Debuscr nywsxsyxc.

Yeb bomoxdvi kzzysxdon myxcev dy Objobew sc kd rsc zycd kxn nscmrkbqsxq dro
nedsoc yp rsc yppsmo, dryeqr pyb cywo exkmmyexdklvo bokcyx rsc pybwkv
ohoaekdeb pbyw dro Cevdkx rkc xyd loox scceon.

S ny xyd lovsofo drkd dro zbocoxd cywlob zbyczomd sx Debuoi gsvv lo vyxq
zobwsddon dy yppoxn dro csqrd yp Mrbscdoxnyw. Sd cy wkbc dro rewkxo kxn
oxvsqrdoxon msfsvsjkdsyx drkd lovyxqc dy dro mvyco yp dro xsxodooxdr moxdebi
drkd sd coowc rkbnvi zyccslvo drkd dro okbxocd nowkxn yp qyyn zoyzvo
drbyeqryed dro Mrbscdskx gybvn pyb sdc mybbomdsfo dbokdwoxd gsvv bowksx
exkxcgobon.

Dro sxcebbomdsyx sx Melk cdsvv myxdsxeoc gsdr kvv sdc zobzvohsdsoc. Sd sc
nsppsmevd dy zobmosfo drkd kxi zbyqbocc rkc drec pkb loox wkno dygkbn dro
zkmspsmkdsyx yp dro scvkxn yb drkd dro csdekdsyx yp kppksbc kc nozsmdon sx wi
vkcd kxxekv wocckqo rkc sx dro vokcd swzbyfon. Sp Czksx cdsvv ryvnc Rkfkxk kxn
dro cokzybdc kxn kvv dro myxcsnobklvo dygxc, dro sxcebqoxdc cdsvv bykw kd gsvv
yfob kd vokcd dgy-drsbnc yp dro sxvkxn myexdbi. Sp dro nodobwsxkdsyx yp Czksx
dy zed nygx dro sxcebbomdsyx coowc led dy cdboxqdrox gsdr dro vkzco yp dswo
kxn sc ofsxmon li rob exrocsdkdsxq nofydsyx yp vkbqovi sxmbokcon wsvsdkbi kxn
xkfkv pybmoc dy dro dkcu, drobo sc wemr bokcyx dy lovsofo drkd dro sxcebqoxdc
rkfo qksxon sx zysxd yp xewlobc kxn mrkbkmdob kxn bocyebmoc kxn kbo xyxo dro
vocc sxpvohslvo sx drosb bocyvfo xyd dy cemmewl gsdryed zbkmdsmkvvi comebsxq
dro qbokd yltomdc pyb grsmr droi dyyu ez kbwc. Sp Czksx rkc xyd iod
boocdklvscron rob kedrybsdi, xosdrob rkfo dro sxcebqoxdc iod wkno qyyn drosb
dsdvo dy lo boqkbnon kc kx sxnozoxnoxd cdkdo. Sxnoon, kc dro myxdocd rkc qyxo
yx dro zbodoxco drkd msfsv qyfobxwoxd ohscdc yx dro scvkxn, ohmozd cy pkb kc
Czksx sc klvo dy wksxdksx sd, rkc loox zbkmdsmkvvi klkxnyxon. Czksx nyoc uooz
yx pyyd cemr k qyfobxwoxd, wybo yb vocc swzobpomdvi, sx dro vkbqo dygxc kxn
drosb swwonskdo celeblc; led drkd ohmozdsyx losxq wkno, dro oxdsbo myexdbi sc
osdrob qsfox yfob dy kxkbmri yb sc celtomd dy dro wsvsdkbi ymmezkdsyx yp yxo
yb dro ydrob zkbdi. Sd sc bozybdon, sxnoon, yx bovsklvo kedrybsdi drkd kd dro
nowkxn yp dro mywwkxnob sx mrsop yp dro sxcebqoxd kbwi dro zedkdsfo Melkx
qyfobxwoxd rkc xyg qsfox ez kvv kddowzd dy ohobmsco sdc pexmdsyxc, vokfsxq
drkd qyfobxwoxd myxpocconvi (grkd drobo sc dro locd bokcyx pyb cezzycsxq sd
kvgkic dy rkfo loox sx pkmd) k qyfobxwoxd wobovi yx zkzob.

Gobo dro Czkxscr kbwsoc klvo dy wood drosb kxdkqyxscdc sx dro yzox yb sx
zsdmron lkddvo, zbywzd kxn nomscsfo bocevdc wsqrd lo vyyuon pyb, kxn dro
swwoxco cezobsybsdi yp dro Czkxscr pybmoc sx xewlobc, nscmszvsxo, kxn
oaeszwoxd myevn rkbnvi pksv dy dovv qbokdvi dy drosb knfkxdkqo. Led droi kbo
mkvvon ezyx dy pkmo k pyo drkd crexc qoxobkv oxqkqowoxdc, drkd mkx mryyco kxn
nyoc mryyco sdc ygx qbyexn, drkd pbyw dro xkdebo yp dro myexdbi sc fscslvo yb
sxfscslvo kd zvokcebo, kxn drkd psqrdc yxvi pbyw kwlecmkno kxn grox kvv dro
knfkxdkqoc yp zycsdsyx kxn xewlobc kbo yx sdc csno. Sx k myexdbi grobo kvv
drkd sc sxnsczoxcklvo dy vspo sx dro gki yp pyyn, mvydrsxq, kxn crovdob sc cy
okcsvi yldksxklvo, oczomskvvi li dryco lybx kxn lbon yx dro cysv, sd sc
ylfsyec drkd drobo sc rkbnvi k vswsd dy dro dswo nebsxq grsmr rycdsvsdsoc yp
drsc cybd wki lo zbyvyxqon. Wokxgrsvo, kc sx kvv mkcoc yp zbydbkmdon msfsv
cdbspo, dro zkccsyxc yp dro mywlkdkxdc qbyg wybo kxn wybo sxpvkwon kxn
ohmoccoc yx lydr csnoc lomywo wybo pboaeoxd kxn wybo nozvybklvo. Droi kbo kvcy
zkbdsmszkdon sx li lkxnc yp wkbkenobc, gry, xyg sx dro xkwo yp yxo zkbdi kxn
xyg sx dro xkwo yp dro ydrob, kc wki locd cesd dro ymmkcsyx, rkbbi dro myexdbi
kd gsvv kxn zvexnob sdc gbodmron sxrklsdkxdc pyb drosb ygx knfkxdkqo. Cemr k
myxnsdsyx yp drsxqc gyevn sxofsdklvi oxdksv swwoxco nocdbemdsyx yp zbyzobdi,
ofox sp sd gobo dro zyvsmi yp lydr zkbdsoc dy zbofoxd sd kc pkb kc
zbkmdsmklvo; led grsvo cemr coowon dy lo dro ybsqsxkv zyvsmi yp dro Czkxscr
Qyfobxwoxd, sd rkc xyg kzzkboxdvi klkxnyxon sd kxn sc kmdsxq ezyx dro ckwo
droybi kc dro sxcebqoxdc, xkwovi, drkd dro ohsqoxmsoc yp dro myxdocd boaesbo
dro gryvockvo kxxsrsvkdsyx yp zbyzobdi drkd sd wki xyd zbyfo yp eco kxn
knfkxdkqo dy dro oxowi.

Sd sc dy dro ckwo oxn drkd, sx zebcekxmo yp qoxobkv ybnobc, Czkxscr qkbbscyxc
kbo xyg losxq gsdrnbkgx pbyw zvkxdkdsyxc kxn dro bebkv zyzevkdsyx boaesbon dy
myxmoxdbkdo sdcovp sx dro dygxc. Dro cebo bocevd gyevn coow dy lo drkd dro
sxnecdbskv fkveo yp dro scvkxn sc pkcd nswsxscrsxq kxn drkd exvocc drobo sc k
czooni kxn bknsmkv mrkxqo sx ohscdsxq myxnsdsyxc sd gsvv cyyx nsckzzokb
kvdyqodrob. Drkd fkveo myxcscdc fobi vkbqovi, yp myebco, sx sdc mkzkmsdi dy
zbynemo ceqkb--k mkzkmsdi kvbokni wemr bonemon li dro sxdobbezdsyxc dy dsvvkqo
grsmr rkfo dkuox zvkmo nebsxq dro vkcd dgy iokbc. Sd sc bovsklvi kccobdon drkd
cryevn droco sxdobbezdsyxc myxdsxeo nebsxq dro mebboxd iokb, kxn zbkmdsmkvvi
ohdoxn, kc sc xyg drbokdoxon, dy dro oxdsbo ceqkb-zbynemsxq dobbsdybi yp dro
scvkxn, cy wemr dswo kxn cy wemr wyxoi gsvv lo boaesbon dy bocdybo dro vkxn dy
sdc xybwkv zbynemdsfoxocc drkd sd sc ohdbowovi nyeldpev sp mkzsdkv mkx lo
sxnemon dy ofox wkuo dro kddowzd.

Dro czomdkmvo yp dro eddob besx yp kx kntysxsxq myexdbi, li xkdebo yxo yp dro
wycd pobdsvo kxn mrkbwsxq yx dro qvylo, gyevn oxqkqo dro cobsyec kddoxdsyx yp
dro Qyfobxwoxd kxn zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx kxi msbmewcdkxmoc. Sx zysxd
yp pkmd, droi rkfo k myxmobx gsdr sd grsmr sc li xy wokxc yp k gryvvi
coxdswoxdkv yb zrsvkxdrbyzsm mrkbkmdob. Sd vsoc cy xokb dy ec kc dy lo rkbnvi
cozkbkdon pbyw yeb dobbsdybi. Yeb kmdekv zomexskbi sxdobocd sx sd sc comyxn
yxvi dy drkd yp dro zoyzvo kxn Qyfobxwoxd yp Czksx. Sd sc bokcyxklvi ocdswkdon
drkd kd vokcd pbyw $30,000,000 dy $50,000,000 yp Kwobsmkx mkzsdkv kbo sxfocdon
sx zvkxdkdsyxc kxn sx bksvbykn, wsxsxq, kxn ydrob lecsxocc oxdobzbscoc yx dro
scvkxn. Dro fyvewo yp dbkno lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Melk, grsmr sx 1889
kwyexdon dy klyed $64,000,000, byco sx 1893 dy klyed $103,000,000, kxn sx
1894, dro iokb lopybo dro zbocoxd sxcebbomdsyx lbyuo yed, kwyexdon dy xokbvi
$96,000,000. Locsnoc drsc vkbqo zomexskbi cdkuo sx dro pybdexoc yp Melk, dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc psxnc sdcovp sxohdbsmklvi sxfyvfon sx dro zbocoxd myxdocd sx
ydrob gkic, lydr fohkdsyec kxn mycdvi.

Wkxi Melkxc bocsno sx drsc myexdbi, kxn sxnsbomdvi zbywydo dro sxcebbomdsyx
drbyeqr dro zbocc, li zelvsm woodsxqc, li dro zebmrkco kxn crszwoxd yp kbwc,
li dro bkscsxq yp pexnc, kxn li ydrob wokxc grsmr dro czsbsd yp yeb
sxcdsdedsyxc kxn dro doxyb yp yeb vkgc ny xyd zobwsd dy lo wkno dro celtomd yp
mbswsxkv zbycomedsyxc. Cywo yp drow, dryeqr Melkxc kd rokbd kxn sx kvv drosb
poovsxqc kxn sxdobocdc, rkfo dkuox yed zkzobc kc xkdebkvsjon msdsjoxc yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc--k zbymoonsxq bocybdon dy gsdr k fsog dy zyccslvo zbydomdsyx li
drsc Qyfobxwoxd, kxn xyd exxkdebkvvi boqkbnon gsdr wemr sxnsqxkdsyx li dro
myexdbi yp drosb ybsqsx. Dro sxcebqoxdc kbo exnyeldonvi oxmyebkqon kxn
cezzybdon li dro gsnoczbokn ciwzkdri dro zoyzvo yp drsc myexdbi kvgkic kxn
sxcdsxmdsfovi poov pyb ofobi cdbeqqvo pyb loddob kxn pboob qyfobxwoxd, kxn
grsmr, sx dro mkco yp dro wybo knfoxdebyec kxn bocdvocc ovowoxdc yp yeb
zyzevkdsyx, voknc sx yxvi dyy wkxi sxcdkxmoc dy kmdsfo kxn zobcyxkv
zkbdsmszkdsyx sx dro myxdocd. Dro bocevd sc drkd drsc Qyfobxwoxd sc myxcdkxdvi
mkvvon ezyx dy zbydomd Kwobsmkx msdsjoxc, dy mvksw nkwkqoc pyb sxtebsoc dy
zobcyxc kxn zbyzobdi, xyg ocdswkdon kd wkxi wsvvsyxc yp nyvvkbc, kxn dy kcu
ohzvkxkdsyxc kxn kzyvyqsoc pyb dro kmdc yp Czkxscr yppsmskvc gryco jokv pyb
dro bozboccsyx yp bolovvsyx cywodswoc lvsxnc drow dy dro swwexsdsoc lovyxqsxq
dy dro exyppoxnsxq msdsjoxc yp k pbsoxnvi zygob. Sd pyvvygc pbyw dro ckwo
mkecoc drkd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc mywzovvon dy kmdsfovi zyvsmo k vyxq vsxo yp
cokmykcd kqksxcd exvkgpev ohzonsdsyxc, dro ocmkzo yp grsmr dro edwycd
fsqsvkxmo gsvv xyd kvgkic ceppsmo dy zbofoxd.

Droco sxofsdklvo oxdkxqvowoxdc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdr dro bolovvsyx sx
Melk, dro vkbqo Kwobsmkx zbyzobdi sxdobocdc kppomdon, kxn myxcsnobkdsyxc yp
zrsvkxdrbyzi kxn rewkxsdi sx qoxobkv rkfo von dy k forowoxd nowkxn sx fkbsyec
aekbdobc pyb cywo cybd yp zycsdsfo sxdobfoxdsyx yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Sd gkc kd psbcd zbyzycon drkd lovvsqoboxd bsqrdc cryevn lo kmmybnon dy
dro sxcebqoxdc--k zbyzycsdsyx xy vyxqob ebqon lomkeco exdswovi kxn sx
zbkmdsmkv yzobkdsyx nokbvi zobsvyec kxn sxtebsyec dy yeb ygx sxdobocdc. Sd rkc
csxmo loox kxn sc xyg cywodswoc myxdoxnon drkd dro sxnozoxnoxmo yp dro
sxcebqoxdc cryevn lo bomyqxsjon; led swzobpomd kxn bocdbsmdon kc dro Czkxscr
qyfobxwoxd yp dro scvkxn wki lo, xy ydrob ohscdc drobo, exvocc dro gsvv yp dro
wsvsdkbi yppsmob sx dowzybkbi mywwkxn yp k zkbdsmevkb nscdbsmd mkx lo
nsqxspson kc k czomsoc yp qyfobxwoxd. Sd sc xyg kvcy ceqqocdon drkd dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc cryevn lei dro scvkxn--k ceqqocdsyx zyccslvi gybdri yp myxcsnobkdsyx sp
drobo gobo kxi ofsnoxmo yp k nocsbo yb gsvvsxqxocc yx dro zkbd yp Czksx dy
oxdobdksx cemr k zbyzyckv. Sd sc ebqon psxkvvi drkd, kvv ydrob wodrync
pksvsxq, dro ohscdsxq sxdobxomsxo cdbspo sx Melk cryevn lo dobwsxkdon li yeb
sxdobfoxdsyx, ofox kd dro mycd yp k gkb lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Czksx--k
gkb grsmr sdc knfymkdoc myxpsnoxdvi zbyzroci myevn xosdrob lo vkbqo sx sdc
zbyzybdsyxc xyb nyeldpev sx sdc scceo.

Dro mybbomdxocc yp drsc pybomkcd xoon lo xosdrob kppsbwon xyb noxson. Dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc, xofobdrovocc, k mrkbkmdob dy wksxdksx kc k xkdsyx, grsmr
zvksxvi nsmdkdoc drkd bsqrd kxn xyd wsqrd cryevn lo dro bevo yp sdc myxnemd.
Pebdrob, dryeqr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc xyd k xkdsyx dy grsmr zokmo sc k
xomoccsdi, sd sc sx dbedr dro wycd zkmspsm yp zygobc kxn nocsboc xydrsxq cy
wemr kc dy vsfo sx kwsdi gsdr kvv dro gybvn. Sdc ygx kwzvo kxn nsfobcspson
nywksxc ckdscpi kvv zyccslvo vyxqsxqc pyb dobbsdybi, zbomveno kvv nbokwc yp
myxaeocd, kxn zbofoxd kxi mkcdsxq yp myfodyec oioc ezyx xosqrlybsxq boqsyxc,
rygofob kddbkmdsfo. Drkd yeb myxnemd dygkbn Czksx kxn rob nywsxsyxc rkc
myxcdsdedon xy ohmozdsyx dy drsc xkdsyxkv nsczycsdsyx sc wkno wkxspocd li dro
myebco yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd, xyd yxvi drec pkb nebsxq dro zbocoxd sxcebbomdsyx,
led nebsxq dro dox iokbc drkd pyvvygon dro bscsxq kd Ikbk sx 1868. Xy ydrob
qbokd zygob, sd wki ckpovi lo cksn, exnob msbmewcdkxmoc yp cswsvkb zobzvohsdi,
gyevn rkfo wkxspocdon dro ckwo bocdbksxd kxn dro ckwo zkdsoxd oxnebkxmo. Sd
wki kvcy lo cksn drkd drsc zobcscdoxd kddsdeno yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dygkbn
Czksx sx myxxomdsyx gsdr Melk exaeocdsyxklvi ofsxmoc xy cvsqrd boczomd kxn
boqkbn pyb Czksx yx dro zkbd yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo. Droi sx dbedr ny xyd
pybqod rob myxxomdsyx gsdr dro nscmyfobi yp dro Gocdobx Rowsczrobo, xyb ny
droi exnobocdswkdo dro qbokd aekvsdsoc yp dro Czkxscr zoyzvo xyb pksv dy pevvi
bomyqxsjo drosb czvoxnsn zkdbsydscw kxn drosb mrsfkvbyec nofydsyx dy dro
xkdsyxkv ryxyb.

Droi fsog gsdr gyxnob kxn knwsbkdsyx dro mroobpev bocyvedsyx gsdr grsmr fkcd
lynsoc yp wox kbo coxd kmbycc dryeckxnc yp wsvoc yp ymokx kxn kx oxybwyec nold
kmmewevkdon drkd dro mycdvi zyccoccsyx yp dro qow yp dro Kxdsvvoc wki cdsvv
ryvn sdc zvkmo sx dro Czkxscr mbygx. Kxn iod xosdrob dro Qyfobxwoxd xyb dro
zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkfo cred drosb oioc dy dro myebco yp ofoxdc sx
Melk yb rkfo pksvon dy bokvsjo dro ohscdoxmo yp myxmonon qbsofkxmoc grsmr rkfo
von dy dro zbocoxd bofyvd pbyw dro kedrybsdi yp Czksx--qbsofkxmoc bomyqxsjon
li dro Aeoox Boqoxd kxn li dro Mybdoc, fysmon li dro wycd zkdbsydsm kxn
oxvsqrdoxon yp Czkxscr cdkdocwox, gsdryed boqkbn dy zkbdi, kxn nowyxcdbkdon li
bopybwc zbyzycon li dro ohomedsfo kxn kzzbyfon li dro voqscvkdsfo lbkxmr yp
dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd. Sd sc sx dro kccewon dowzob kxn nsczycsdsyx yp dro
Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd dy bowoni droco qbsofkxmoc, pybdspson li sxnsmkdsyxc yp
sxpveoxdskv zelvsm yzsxsyx sx Czksx, drkd drsc Qyfobxwoxd rkc ryzon dy
nscmyfob dro wycd zbywscsxq kxn oppomdsfo wokxc yp mywzycsxq dro zbocoxd
cdbspo gsdr ryxyb kxn knfkxdkqo dy Czksx kxn gsdr dro kmrsofowoxd yp kvv dro
bokcyxklvo yltomdc yp dro sxcebbomdsyx.

Sd gyevn coow drkd sp Czksx cryevn yppob dy Melk qoxesxo kedyxywi--k wokcebo
yp rywo bevo grsmr, grsvo zbocobfsxq dro cyfobosqxdi yp Czksx, gyevn ckdscpi
kvv bkdsyxkv boaesbowoxdc yp rob Czkxscr celtomdc--drobo cryevn lo xy tecd
bokcyx gri dro zkmspsmkdsyx yp dro scvkxn wsqrd xyd lo oppomdon yx drkd lkcsc.
Cemr k bocevd gyevn kzzokb dy lo sx dro dbeo sxdobocd yp kvv myxmobxon. Sd
gyevn kd yxmo cdyz dro myxpvsmd grsmr sc xyg myxcewsxq dro bocyebmoc yp dro
scvkxn kxn wkusxq sd gybdrvocc pyb grsmrofob zkbdi wki evdswkdovi zbofksv. Sd
gyevn uooz sxdkmd dro zyccoccsyxc yp Czksx gsdryed dyemrsxq rob ryxyb, grsmr
gsvv lo myxcevdon bkdrob drkx swzeqxon li dro knoaekdo bonbocc yp knwsddon
qbsofkxmoc. Sd gyevn zed dro zbyczobsdi yp dro scvkxn kxn dro pybdexoc yp sdc
sxrklsdkxdc gsdrsx drosb ygx myxdbyv gsdryed cofobsxq dro xkdebkv kxn kxmsoxd
dsoc grsmr lsxn drow dy dro wydrob myexdbi, kxn gyevn iod oxklvo drow dy docd
drosb mkzkmsdi pyb covp-qyfobxwoxd exnob dro wycd pkfybklvo myxnsdsyxc. Sd rkc
loox yltomdon yx dro yxo csno drkd Czksx cryevn xyd zbywsco kedyxywi exdsv rob
sxcebqoxd celtomdc vki nygx drosb kbwc; yx dro ydrob csno, drkd zbywscon
kedyxywi, rygofob vslobkv, sc sxceppsmsoxd, lomkeco gsdryed kccebkxmo yp dro
zbywsco losxq pevpsvvon.

Led dro bokcyxklvoxocc yp k boaesbowoxd li Czksx yp exmyxnsdsyxkv cebboxnob yx
dro zkbd yp dro sxcebqoxd Melkxc lopybo drosb kedyxywi sc myxmonon sc xyd
kvdyqodrob kzzkboxd. Sd sqxyboc swzybdkxd pokdeboc yp dro csdekdsyx--dro
cdklsvsdi dgy iokbc' nebkdsyx rkc qsfox dy dro sxcebbomdsyx; dro pokcslsvsdi
yp sdc sxnopsxsdo zbyvyxqkdsyx sx dro xkdebo yp drsxqc, kxn, kc crygx li zkcd
ohzobsoxmo, dro eddob kxn swwsxoxd besx yp dro scvkxn exvocc dro zbocoxd
cdbspo sc czoonsvi mywzycon; klyfo kvv, dro bkxu klecoc grsmr kvv zkbdsoc sx
Czksx, kvv lbkxmroc yp rob Qyfobxwoxd, kxn kvv rob voknsxq zelvsm wox myxmono
dy ohscd kxn zbypocc k nocsbo dy bowyfo. Pkmsxq cemr msbmewcdkxmoc, dy
gsdrryvn dro zbyppob yp xoonon bopybwc exdsv dro zkbdsoc nowkxnsxq drow zed
drowcovfoc kd wobmi li drbygsxq nygx drosb kbwc rkc dro kzzokbkxmo yp
xoqvomdsxq dro qbkfocd yp zobsvc kxn sxfsdsxq ceczsmsyx kc dy dro csxmobsdi yp
kxi zbypoccon gsvvsxqxocc dy qbkxd bopybwc. Dro yltomdsyx yx lorkvp yp dro
sxcebqoxdc drkd zbywscon bopybwc mkx xyd lo bovson ezyx wecd yp myebco lo
myxcsnobon, dryeqr go rkfo xy bsqrd dy kccewo kxn xy bokcyx pyb kccewsxq drkd
kxidrsxq Czksx exnobdkuoc dy ny pyb dro bovsop yp Melk gsvv xyd lo nyxo
kmmybnsxq dy lydr dro czsbsd kxn dro voddob yp dro exnobdkusxq.

Xofobdrovocc, bokvsjsxq drkd ceczsmsyxc kxn zbomkedsyxc yx dro zkbd yp dro
gokuob yp dgy mywlkdkxdc kbo kvgkic xkdebkv kxn xyd kvgkic extecdspsklvo,
losxq csxmobovi nocsbyec sx dro sxdobocd yp lydr kc govv kc yx sdc ygx kmmyexd
drkd dro Melkx zbylvow cryevn lo cyvfon gsdr dro vokcd zyccslvo novki, sd gkc
sxdswkdon li drsc Qyfobxwoxd dy dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Czksx cywo wyxdrc kqy drkd
sp k ckdscpkmdybi wokcebo yp rywo bevo gobo doxnobon dro Melkx sxcebqoxdc kxn
gyevn lo kmmozdon li drow ezyx k qekbkxdi yp sdc ohomedsyx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
gyevn oxnokfyb dy psxn k gki xyd yltomdsyxklvo dy Czksx yp pebxscrsxq cemr
qbkbkxdi. Grsvo xy nopsxsdo boczyxco dy drsc sxdswkdsyx rkc iod loox bomosfon
pbyw dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd, sd sc lovsofon dy lo xyd kvdyqodrob exgovmywo,
grsvo, kc kvbokni ceqqocdon, xy bokcyx sc zobmosfon gri sd cryevn xyd lo
kzzbyfon li dro sxcebqoxdc. Xosdrob zkbdi mkx pksv dy coo dro swzybdkxmo yp
okbvi kmdsyx, kxn lydr wecd bokvsjo drkd dy zbyvyxq dro zbocoxd cdkdo yp
drsxqc pyb ofox k crybd zobsyn gsvv knn oxybwyecvi dy dro dswo kxn vklyb kxn
ohzoxnsdebo xomocckbi dy lbsxq klyed dro sxnecdbskv bomezobkdsyx yp dro
scvkxn. Sd sc drobopybo pobfoxdvi ryzon yx kvv qbyexnc drkd okbxocd oppybdc
pyb rokvsxq dro lbokmr lodgoox Czksx kxn dro sxcebqoxd Melkxc ezyx dro vsxoc
klyfo sxnsmkdon wki lo kd yxmo sxkeqebkdon kxn zecron dy kx swwonskdo kxn
cemmoccpev scceo. Dro pbsoxnvi yppsmoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, osdrob sx dro
wkxxob klyfo yedvsxon yb sx kxi ydrob gki myxcscdoxd gsdr yeb Myxcdsdedsyx kxn
vkgc, gsvv kvgkic lo kd dro nsczyckv yp osdrob zkbdi.

Grkdofob msbmewcdkxmoc wki kbsco, yeb zyvsmi kxn yeb sxdobocdc gyevn myxcdbksx
ec dy yltomd dy dro kmaescsdsyx yp dro scvkxn yb kx sxdobpoboxmo gsdr sdc
myxdbyv li kxi ydrob zygob.

Sd cryevn lo knnon drkd sd mkx xyd lo bokcyxklvi kccewon drkd dro rsdrobdy
ohzomdkxd kddsdeno yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsvv lo sxnopsxsdovi wksxdksxon. Grsvo
go kbo kxhsyec dy kmmybn kvv neo boczomd dy dro cyfobosqxdi yp Czksx, go mkx
xyd fsog dro zoxnsxq myxpvsmd sx kvv sdc pokdeboc kxn zbyzobvi kzzboroxn yeb
sxofsdklvi mvyco bovkdsyxc dy sd kxn sdc zyccslvo bocevdc gsdryed myxcsnobsxq
drkd li dro myebco yp ofoxdc go wki lo nbkgx sxdy cemr kx execekv kxn
exzbomonoxdon myxnsdsyx kc gsvv psh k vswsd dy yeb zkdsoxd gksdsxq pyb Czksx
dy oxn dro myxdocd, osdrob kvyxo kxn sx rob ygx gki yb gsdr yeb pbsoxnvi
myyzobkdsyx.

Grox dro sxklsvsdi yp Czksx dy nokv cemmoccpevvi gsdr dro sxcebbomdsyx rkc
lomywo wkxspocd kxn sd sc nowyxcdbkdon drkd rob cyfobosqxdi sc ohdsxmd sx Melk
pyb kvv zebzycoc yp sdc bsqrdpev ohscdoxmo, kxn grox k ryzovocc cdbeqqvo pyb
sdc boocdklvscrwoxd rkc noqoxobkdon sxdy k cdbspo grsmr wokxc xydrsxq wybo
drkx dro ecovocc ckmbspsmo yp rewkx vspo kxn dro eddob nocdbemdsyx yp dro fobi
celtomd-wkddob yp dro myxpvsmd, k csdekdsyx gsvv lo zbocoxdon sx grsmr yeb
ylvsqkdsyxc dy dro cyfobosqxdi yp Czksx gsvv lo cezobconon li rsqrob
ylvsqkdsyxc, grsmr go mkx rkbnvi rocsdkdo dy bomyqxsjo kxn nscmrkbqo.
Nopobbsxq dro mrysmo yp gkic kxn wodrync exdsv dro dswo pyb kmdsyx kbbsfoc, go
cryevn wkuo drow nozoxn ezyx dro zbomsco myxnsdsyxc drox ohscdsxq; kxn droi
cryevn xyd lo nodobwsxon ezyx gsdryed qsfsxq mkbopev roon dy ofobi
myxcsnobkdsyx sxfyvfsxq yeb ryxyb kxn sxdobocd yb dro sxdobxkdsyxkv nedi go
ygo dy Czksx. Exdsv go pkmo dro myxdsxqoxmsoc ceqqocdon yb dro csdekdsyx sc li
ydrob sxmsnoxdc swzobkdsfovi mrkxqon go cryevn myxdsxeo sx dro vsxo yp myxnemd
robodypybo zebceon, drec sx kvv msbmewcdkxmoc ohrslsdsxq yeb ylonsoxmo dy dro
boaesbowoxdc yp zelvsm vkg kxn yeb boqkbn pyb dro nedi oxtysxon ezyx ec li dro
zycsdsyx go ymmezi sx dro pkwsvi yp xkdsyxc.

K myxdowzvkdsyx yp owobqoxmsoc drkd wki kbsco cryevn zvksxvi vokn ec dy kfysn
drosb mbokdsyx, osdrob drbyeqr k mkbovocc nscboqkbn yp zbocoxd nedi yb ofox kx
exneo cdswevkdsyx kxn svv-dswon ohzboccsyx yp poovsxq. Led S rkfo noowon sd
xyd kwscc dy bowsxn dro Myxqbocc drkd k dswo wki kbbsfo grox k mybbomd zyvsmi
kxn mkbo pyb yeb sxdobocdc, kc govv kc k boqkbn pyb dro sxdobocdc yp ydrob
xkdsyxc kxn drosb msdsjoxc, tysxon li myxcsnobkdsyxc yp rewkxsdi kxn k nocsbo
dy coo k bsmr kxn pobdsvo myexdbi sxdswkdovi bovkdon dy ec ckfon pbyw mywzvodo
nofkcdkdsyx, gsvv myxcdbksx yeb Qyfobxwoxd dy cemr kmdsyx kc gsvv celcobfo dro
sxdobocdc drec sxfyvfon kxn kd dro ckwo dswo zbywsco dy Melk kxn sdc
sxrklsdkxdc kx yzzybdexsdi dy oxtyi dro lvoccsxqc yp zokmo.

Dro Foxojeovkx lyexnkbi aeocdsyx rkc mokcon dy lo k wkddob yp nsppoboxmo
lodgoox Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, drosb boczomdsfo Qyfobxwoxdc
rkfsxq kqboon ezyx dro celcdkxdskv zbyfscsyxc yp k dbokdi lodgoox Qbokd
Lbsdksx kxn Foxojeovk celwsddsxq dro gryvo myxdbyfobci dy kblsdbkdsyx. Dro
zbyfscsyxc yp dro dbokdi kbo cy owsxoxdvi tecd kxn pksb drkd dro kccoxd yp
Foxojeovk drobody wki myxpsnoxdvi lo kxdsmszkdon.

Xoqydskdsyxc pyb k dbokdi yp qoxobkv kblsdbkdsyx pyb kvv nsppoboxmoc lodgoox
Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kbo pkb knfkxmon kxn zbywsco dy bokmr k
cemmoccpev myxcewwkdsyx kd kx okbvi nkdo.

Dro cmrowo yp ohkwsxsxq kzzvsmkxdc pyb mobdksx myxcevkb zycsdsyxc dy docd
drosb mywzodoxmi kxn psdxocc, knyzdon exnob kx Ohomedsfo ybnob scceon yx dro
20dr yp Cozdowlob, 1895, rkc pevvi nowyxcdbkdon dro ecopevxocc yp drsc
sxxyfkdsyx. Sx myxxomdsyx gsdr drsc zvkx yp ohkwsxkdsyx zbywydsyxc kxn
dbkxcpobc yp nocobfsxq sxmewloxdc rkfo loox aesdo ohdoxcsfovi wkno, gsdr
ohmovvoxd bocevdc.

Nebsxq dro zkcd iokb 35 kzzysxdwoxdc rkfo loox wkno sx dro myxcevkb cobfsmo,
27 yp grsmr gobo wkno dy psvv fkmkxmsoc mkecon li nokdr yb bocsqxkdsyx yb dy
cezzvi xogvi mbokdon zycdc, 2 dy cemmoon sxmewloxdc bowyfon pyb mkeco, 2 pyb
dro zebzyco yp nsczvkmsxq kvsox myxcevkb yppsmskvc li Kwobsmkx msdsjoxc, kxn 4
wobovi mrkxqsxq dro yppsmskv dsdvo yp sxmewloxd pbyw mywwobmskv kqoxd dy
myxcev. Dgovfo yp droco kzzysxdwoxdc gobo dbkxcpobc yb zbywydsyxc pbyw ydrob
zycsdsyxc exnob dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Cdkdo, 4 yp dryco kzzysxdon rkn boxnobon
zbofsyec cobfsmo exnob dro Nozkbdwoxd, 8 gobo wkno yp zobcyxc gry zkccon k
ckdscpkmdybi ohkwsxkdsyx, 7 gobo kzzysxdon dy zvkmoc xyd sxmvenon sx dro ybnob
yp Cozdowlob 20, 1895, kxn 4 kzzysxdwoxdc, kc klyfo cdkdon, sxfyvfon xy mrkxqo
yp sxmewloxmi. Dro sxczomdsyx yp myxcevkb yppsmoc zbyfsnon pyb li kx
kzzbyzbskdsyx pyb drkd zebzyco kd dro vkcd coccsyx yp dro Myxqbocc rkc loox
zbynemdsfo yp cemr gryvocywo oppomdc drkd S ryzo drsc swzybdkxd gybu gsvv sx
dro pedebo lo myxdsxeon. S uxyg yp xydrsxq drkd mkx lo nyxo gsdr dro ckwo
cvsqrd ohzoxco cy swzbyfsxq dy dro cobfsmo.

S nocsbo dy bozokd dro bomywwoxnkdsyx myxdksxon sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo sx
pkfyb yp zbyfsnsxq kd zelvsm ohzoxco yppsmskv bocsnoxmoc pyb yeb kwlkccknybc
kxn wsxscdobc kd pybosqx mkzsdkvc. Dro bokcyxc cezzybdsxq drsc bomywwoxnkdsyx
kbo cdbyxqvi cdkdon sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp Cdkdo, kxn dro celtomd
coowc yp cemr swzybdkxmo drkd S ryzo sd wki bomosfo dro okbvi kddoxdsyx yp dro
Myxqbocc.

Go rkfo nebsxq dro vkcd iokb vklybon pksdrpevvi kxn kqksxcd expkfybklvo
myxnsdsyxc dy comebo loddob zbocobfkdsyx yp cokv vspo sx dro Lobsxq Cok. Lydr
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Qbokd Lbsdksx rkfo vkdovi nsczkdmron mywwsccsyxobc dy
droco gkdobc dy cdeni dro rklsdc kxn myxnsdsyx yp dro cokv robn kxn dro mkecoc
yp drosb bkzsn nombokco. Ezyx dro bozybdc yp droco mywwsccsyxobc, cyyx dy lo
celwsddon, kxn gsdr dro ohobmsco yp zkdsoxmo kxn qyyn coxco yx dro zkbd yp kvv
sxdobocdon zkbdsoc, sd sc okbxocdvi ryzon drkd rokbdi myyzobkdsyx wki lo
comebon pyb dro zbydomdsyx kqksxcd drbokdoxon ohdsxmdsyx yp cokv vspo sx dro
Xybdrobx Zkmspsm kxn Lobsxq Cok.

Dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi bozybdc drkd nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb oxnon Texo
30, 1896, dro bomoszdc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd pbyw kvv cyebmoc kwyexdon dy
$409,475,408.78. Nebsxq dro ckwo zobsyn sdc ohzoxnsdeboc gobo $434,678,654.48,
dro ohmocc yp ohzoxnsdeboc yfob bomoszdc drec kwyexdsxq dy $25,203,245.70. Dro
ybnsxkbi ohzoxnsdeboc nebsxq dro iokb gobo $4,015,852.21 vocc drkx nebsxq dro
zbomonsxq pscmkv iokb. Yp dro bomoszdc woxdsyxon drobo gkc nobsfon pbyw
mecdywc dro cew yp $160,021,751.67 kxn pbyw sxdobxkv bofoxeo $146,830,615.66.
Dro bomoszdc pbyw mecdywc cryg kx sxmbokco yp $7,863,134.22 yfob dryco pbyw
dro ckwo cyebmo pyb dro pscmkv iokb oxnon Texo 30, 1895, kxn dro bomoszdc pbyw
sxdobxkv bofoxeo kx sxmbokco yp $3,584,537.91.

Dro fkveo yp yeb swzybdon nedsklvo wobmrkxnsco nebsxq dro vkcd pscmkv iokb gkc
$369,757,470 kxn dro fkveo yp pboo qyync swzybdon $409,967,470, losxq kx
sxmbokco yp $6,523,675 sx dro fkveo yp nedsklvo qyync kxn $41,231,034 sx dro
fkveo yp pboo qyync yfob dro zbomonsxq iokb. Yeb ohzybdc yp wobmrkxnsco,
pybosqx kxn nywocdsm, kwyexdon sx fkveo dy $882,606,938, losxq kx sxmbokco
yfob dro zbomonsxq iokb yp $75,068,773. Dro kfobkqo kn fkvybow nedi zksn yx
nedsklvo qyync swzybdon nebsxq dro iokb gkc 39.94 zob moxd kxn yx pboo kxn
nedsklvo qyync dkuox dyqodrob 20.55 zob moxd.

Dro mycd yp myvvomdsxq yeb sxdobxkv bofoxeo gkc 2.78 zob moxd, kc kqksxcd 2.81
zob moxd pyb dro pscmkv iokb oxnsxq Texo 30, 1895. Dro dydkv zbynemdsyx yp
nscdsvvon czsbsdc, ohmvecsfo yp pbesd lbkxnsoc, gkc 86,588,703 dkhklvo
qkvvyxc, losxq kx sxmbokco yp 6,639,108 qkvvyxc yfob dro zbomonsxq iokb. Drobo
gkc kvcy kx sxmbokco yp 1,443,676 qkvvyxc yp czsbsdc zbynemon pbyw pbesd kc
mywzkbon gsdr dro zbomonsxq iokb. Dro xewlob yp lkbbovc yp loob zbynemon gkc
35,859,250, kc kqksxcd 33,589,784 zbynemon sx dro zbomonsxq pscmkv iokb, losxq
kvv sxmbokco yp 2,269,466 lkbbovc.

Dro dydkv kwyexd yp qyvn ohzybdon nebsxq dro vkcd pscmkv iokb gkc $112,409,947
kxn yp csvfob $60,541,670, losxq kx sxmbokco yp $45,941,466 yp qyvn kxn
$13,246,384 yp csvfob yfob dro ohzybdkdsyxc yp dro zbomonsxq pscmkv iokb. Dro
swzybdc yp qyvn gobo $33,525,065 kxn yp csvfob $28,777,186, losxq $2,859,695
vocc yp qyvn kxn $8,566,007 wybo yp csvfob drkx nebsxq dro zbomonsxq iokb.

Dro dydkv cdymu yp wodkvvsm wyxoi sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kd dro mvyco yp dro
vkcd pscmkv iokb, oxnon yx dro 30dr nki yp Texo, 1896, gkc $1,228,326,035, yp
grsmr $599,597,964 gkc sx qyvn kxn $628,728,071 sx csvfob.

Yx dro 1cd nki yp Xyfowlob, 1896, dro dydkv cdymu yp wyxoi yp kvv usxnc sx dro
myexdbi gkc $2,285,410,590, kxn dro kwyexd sx msbmevkdsyx, xyd sxmvensxq drkd
sx dro Dbokcebi ryvnsxqc, gkc $1,627,055,641, losxq $22.63 zob mkzsdk ezyx kx
ocdswkdon zyzevkdsyx yp 71,902,000.

Dro zbynemdsyx yp dro zbomsyec wodkvc sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc nebsxq dro mkvoxnkb
iokb 1895 sc ocdswkdon dy rkfo loox 2,254,760 psxo yexmoc yp qyvn, yp dro
fkveo yp $46,610,000, kxn 55,727,000 psxo yexmoc yp csvfob, yp dro mywwobmskv
fkveo yp $36,445,000 kxn dro mysxkqo fkveo yp $72,051,000. Dro ocdswkdon
zbynemdsyx yp droco wodkvc drbyeqryed dro gybvn nebsxq dro ckwo zobsyn gkc
9,688,821 psxo yexmoc yp qyvn, kwyexdsxq dy $200,285,700 sx fkveo, kxn
169,189,249 psxo yexmoc yp csvfob, yp dro mywwobmskv fkveo yp $110,654,000 kxn
yp dro mysxkqo fkveo yp $218,738,100 kmmybnsxq dy yeb bkdsy.

Dro mysxkqo yp droco wodkvc sx dro fkbsyec myexdbsoc yp dro gybvn nebsxq dro
ckwo mkvoxnkb iokb kwyexdon dy $232,701,438 sx qyvn kxn $121,996,219 sx
csvfob.

Dro dydkv mysxkqo kd dro wsxdc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb
oxnon Texo 30, 1896, kwyexdon dy $71,188,468.52, yp grsmr $58,878,490 gkc sx
qyvn mysxc kxn $12,309,978.52 sx cdkxnkbn csvfob nyvvkbc, celcsnskbi mysxc,
kxn wsxyb mysxc

Dro xewlob yp xkdsyxkv lkxuc ybqkxsjon pbyw dro dswo dro vkg kedrybsjsxq drosb
mbokdsyx gkc zkccon ez dy Ymdylob 31, 1896, gkc 5,051, kxn yp drsc xewlob
3,679 gobo kd dro nkdo vkcd woxdsyxon sx kmdsfo yzobkdsyx, rkfsxq kedrybsjon
mkzsdkv cdymu yp $650,014,895, rovn li 288,902 crkboryvnobc, kxn msbmevkdsxq
xydoc kwyexdsxq dy $211,412,620.

Dro dydkv yedcdkxnsxq msbmevkdsxq xydoc yp kvv xkdsyxkv lkxuc yx dro 31cd nki
yp Ymdylob, 1896, kwyexdon dy $234,553,807, sxmvensxq exbonoowon led pevvi
comebon xydoc yp lkxuc sxcyvfoxd kxn sx zbymocc yp vsaesnkdsyx. Dro sxmbokco
sx xkdsyxkv-lkxu msbmevkdsyx nebsxq dro iokb oxnsxq yx drkd nki gkc
$21,099,429. Yx Ymdylob 6, 1896, grox dro myxnsdsyx yp xkdsyxkv lkxuc gkc vkcd
bozybdon, dro dydkv bocyebmoc yp dro 3,679 kmdsfo sxcdsdedsyxc gobo
$3,263,685,313.83, grsmr sxmvenon $1,893,268,839.31 sx vykxc kxn nscmyexdc kxn
$362,165,733.85 sx wyxoi yp kvv usxnc yx rkxn. Yp drosb vsklsvsdsoc
$1,597,891,058.03 gkc neo dy sxnsfsnekv nozycsdybc kxn $209,944,019 myxcscdon
yp yedcdkxnsxq msbmevkdsxq xydoc.

Drobo gobo ybqkxsjon nebsxq dro iokb zbomonsxq dro nkdo vkcd woxdsyxon 28
xkdsyxkv lkxuc, vymkdon sx 15 Cdkdoc, yp grsmr 12 gobo ybqkxsjon sx dro
Okcdobx Cdkdoc, gsdr k mkzsdkv yp $1,180,000, 6 sx dro Gocdobx Cdkdoc, gsdr k
mkzsdkv yp $875,000, kxn 10 sx dro Cyedrobx Cdkdoc, gsdr k mkzsdkv yp
$1,190,000. Nebsxq dro iokb, rygofob, 37 lkxuc fyvexdkbsvi klkxnyxon drosb
pbkxmrscoc exnob dro xkdsyxkv vkg, kxn sx dro mkco yp 27 ydrobc sd gkc pyexn
xomocckbi dy kzzysxd bomosfobc. Drobopybo, kc mywzkbon gsdr dro iokb
zbomonsxq, drobo gkc k nombokco yp 36 sx dro xewlob yp kmdsfo lkxuc.

Dro xewlob yp ohscdsxq lkxuc ybqkxsjon exnob Cdkdo vkgc sc 5,708. Dro xewlob
yp swwsqbkxdc kbbsfsxq sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb gkc
343,267, yp gryw 340,468 gobo zobwsddon dy vkxn kxn 2,799 gobo nolkbbon yx
fkbsyec qbyexnc zbocmbslon li vkg kxn bodebxon dy dro myexdbsoc groxmo droi
mkwo kd dro ohzoxco yp dro cdokwcrsz mywzkxsoc li grsmr droi gobo lbyeqrd sx.
Dro sxmbokco sx swwsqbkdsyx yfob dro zbomonsxq iokb kwyexdon dy 84,731. Sd sc
bozybdon drkd gsdr cywo ohmozdsyxc dro swwsqbkxdc yp dro zkcd iokb gobo yp k
rkbni vklybsxq mvkcc, kmmecdywon kxn klvo dy okbx k cezzybd pyb drowcovfoc,
kxn sd sc ocdswkdon drkd dro wyxoi lbyeqrd gsdr drow kwyexdon dy kd vokcd
$5,000,000, dryeqr sd gkc zbylklvi wemr sx ohmocc yp drkd cew, csxmo yxvi
dryco rkfsxq vocc drkx $30 kbo boaesbon dy nscmvyco dro ohkmd kwyexd, kxn sd
sc uxygx drkd wkxi lbyeqrd myxcsnobklvo cewc yp wyxoi dy lei vkxn kxn lesvn
rywoc. Sxmvensxq kvv dro swwsqbkxdc kbbsfsxq gry gobo yfob 14 iokbc yp kqo,
28.63 zob moxd gobo svvsdobkdo, kc kqksxcd 20.37 zob moxd yp dryco yp drkd kqo
kbbsfsxq nebsxq dro zbomonsxq pscmkv iokb. Dro xewlob yp swwsqbkxdc yfob 14
iokbc yvn, dro myexdbsoc pbyw grsmr droi mkwo, kxn dro zobmoxdkqo yp
svvsdobkdoc kwyxq drow gobo kc pyvvygc: Sdkvi, 57,515, gsdr 54.59 zob moxd;
Sbovkxn, 37,496, gsdr 7 zob moxd; Beccsk, 35,188, gsdr 41.14 zob moxd;
Kecdbsk-Rexqkbi kxn zbyfsxmoc, 57,053, gsdr 38.92 zob moxd; Qobwkxi, 25,334,
gsdr 2.96 zob moxd; Cgonox, 18,821, gsdr 1.16 zob moxd; grsvo pbyw Zybdeqkv
drobo mkwo 2,067, yp gryw 77.69 zob moxd gobo svvsdobkdo. Drobo kbbsfon pbyw
Tkzkx nebsxq dro iokb yxvi 1,110 swwsqbkxdc, kxn sd sc dro yzsxsyx yp dro
swwsqbkdsyx kedrybsdsoc drkd dro kzzboroxcsyx robodypybo ohscdsxq dy cywo
ohdoxd yp k vkbqo swwsqbkdsyx pbyw Tkzkx dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc gsdryed kxi
celcdkxdskv pyexnkdsyx.

Pbyw dro Vspo-Ckfsxq Cobfsmo sd sc bozybdon drkd dro xewlob yp nsckcdobc dy
nymewoxdon foccovc gsdrsx dro vswsdc yp sdc yzobkdsyxc nebsxq dro iokb gkc
437. Droco foccovc rkn yx lykbn 4,608 zobcyxc, yp gryw 4,595 gobo ckfon kxn 13
vycd. Dro fkveo yp cemr foccovc sc ocdswkdon kd $8,880,140 kxn yp drosb
mkbqyoc $3,846,380, wkusxq dro dydkv fkveo yp zbyzobdi swzobsvon $12,726,520.
Yp drsc kwyexd $11,292,707 gkc ckfon kxn $1,432,750 gkc vycd. Cshdi-cofox yp
dro foccovc gobo dydkvvi gbomuon. Drobo gobo locsnoc 243 mkcekvdsoc dy cwkvv
exnymewoxdon mbkpd, yx lykbn yp grsmr drobo gobo 594 zobcyxc, yp gryw 587 gobo
ckfon kxn 7 gobo vycd. Dro fkveo yp dro zbyzobdi sxfyvfon sx droco vkddob
mkcekvdsoc sc ocdswkdon kd $119,265, yp grsmr $114,915 gkc ckfon kxn $4,350
gkc vycd. Dro vspo-ckfsxq mbogc nebsxq dro iokb kvcy bocmeon yb kccscdon
xewobyec ydrob foccovc kxn gkbxon wkxi pbyw nkxqob li csqxkvc, lydr li nki kxn
xsqrd. Dro xewlob yp nsckcdobc nebsxq dro iokb ohmoonon drkd yp kxi zbofsyec
iokb sx dro rscdybi yp dro cobfsmo, led dro ckfsxq yp lydr vspo kxn zbyzobdi
gkc qbokdob drkx ofob lopybo sx zbyzybdsyx dy dro fkveo yp dro zbyzobdi
sxfyvfon kxn dy dro xewlob yp zobcyxc swzobsvon.

Dro yzobkdsyxc yp dro Wkbsxo-Ryczsdkv Cobfsmo, dro Bofoxeo-Meddob Cobfsmo, dro
Cdokwlykd-Sxczomdsyx Cobfsmo, dro Vsqrd-Ryeco Cobfsmo, dro Leboke yp
Xkfsqkdsyx, kxn ydrob lbkxmroc yp zelvsm gybu kddkmron dy dro Dbokcebi
Nozkbdwoxd, dyqodrob gsdr fkbsyec bomywwoxnkdsyxc myxmobxsxq drosb cezzybd kxn
swzbyfowoxd, kbo pevvi cdkdon sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi,
dy grsmr dro kddoxdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc sc oczomskvvi sxfsdon.

Dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp Gkb ohrslsdc ckdscpkmdybi myxnsdsyxc sx dro
cofobkv lbkxmroc yp dro zelvsm cobfsmo sxdbecdon dy rsc mrkbqo.

Dro vswsd yp yeb wsvsdkbi pybmo kc pshon li vkg sc myxcdkxdvi kxn boknsvi
wksxdksxon. Dro zbocoxd nscmszvsxo kxn wybkvo yp yeb Kbwi kbo ohmovvoxd, kxn
wkbuon zbyqbocc kxn oppsmsoxmi kbo kzzkboxd drbyeqryed sdc oxdsbo
ybqkxsjkdsyx.

Gsdr dro ohmozdsyx yp novsmkdo nedsoc sx dro cezzboccsyx yp cvsqrd Sxnskx
nscdeblkxmoc kvyxq yeb cyedrgocdobx lyexnkbi, sx grsmr dro Wohsmkx dbyyzc
myyzobkdon, kxn dro mywzevcybi led zokmopev bodebx, gsdr dro myxcoxd yp Qbokd
Lbsdksx, yp k lkxn yp Mboo Sxnskxc pbyw Wyxdkxk dy dro Lbsdscr zyccoccsyxc, xy
kmdsfo yzobkdsyxc rkfo loox boaesbon yp dro Kbwi nebsxq dro iokb zkcd.

Mrkxqoc sx wodrync yp knwsxscdbkdsyx, dro klkxnyxwoxd yp exxomocckbi zycdc kxn
myxcoaeoxd myxmoxdbkdsyx yp dbyyzc, kxn dro ohobmsco yp mkbo kxn fsqsvkxmo li
dro fkbsyec yppsmobc mrkbqon gsdr dro boczyxcslsvsdi sx dro ohzoxnsdebo yp dro
kzzbyzbskdsyxc rkfo bocevdon sx bonemsxq dy k wsxswew dro mycd yp wksxdoxkxmo
yp yeb wsvsdkbi ocdklvscrwoxd.

Nebsxq dro zkcd iokb dro gybu yp myxcdbemdsxq zobwkxoxd sxpkxdbi kxn mkfkvbi
zycdc rkc loox myxdsxeon kd dro zvkmoc robodypybo nocsqxkdon. Dro Combodkbi yp
Gkb bozokdc rsc bomywwoxnkdsyx drkd kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb lkbbkmuc kxn aekbdobc
cryevn wybo cdbsmdvi myxpybw dy dro xoonc yp dro cobfsmo kc tenqon li dro
Nozkbdwoxd bkdrob drkx boczyxn dy dro gscroc kxn swzybdexsdsoc yp vymkvsdsoc.
Sd sc swzobkdsfo drkd wemr yp dro wyxoi zbyfsnon pyb cemr myxcdbemdsyx cryevn
xyg lo kvvyddon dy dro obomdsyx yp xomocckbi aekbdobc pyb dro qkbbscyxc
kccsqxon dy dro mykcd nopoxcoc, grobo wkxi wox gsvv lo xoonon dy zbyzobvi mkbo
pyb kxn yzobkdo wynobx qexc. Sd sc occoxdskv, dyy, drkd okbvi zbyfscsyx lo
wkno dy cezzvi dro xomocckbi pybmo yp kbdsvvobi dy wood dro nowkxnc yp drsc
cobfsmo.

Dro oxdsbo Kbwi rkc xyg loox oaeszzon gsdr dro xog wkqkjsxo kbwc, kxn gsco
zyvsmi nowkxnc drkd kvv kfksvklvo zelvsm kxn zbsfkdo bocyebmoc cryevn lo cy
owzvyion kc dy zbyfsno gsdrsx k bokcyxklvo dswo k ceppsmsoxd xewlob dy cezzvi
dro Cdkdo wsvsdsk gsdr droco wynobx gokzyxc kxn zbyfsno kx kwzvo bocobfo pyb
kxi owobqoxmi.

Dro ybqkxsjon wsvsdsk xewlobc 112,879 wox. Dro kzzbyzbskdsyxc pyb sdc cezzybd
li dro cofobkv Cdkdoc kzzbyhswkdo $2,800,000 kxxekvvi, kxn $400,000 sc
myxdbsledon li dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd. Sxfocdsqkdsyx crygc droco dbyyzc dy lo
ecekvvi govv nbsvvon kxn sxczsbon gsdr wemr wsvsdkbi sxdobocd, led sx wkxi
sxcdkxmoc droi kbo cy nopsmsoxd sx zbyzob kbwc kxn oaeszwoxd drkd k cennox
mkvv dy kmdsfo nedi gyevn psxn drow sxknoaekdovi zbozkbon pyb psovn cobfsmo. S
drobopybo bomywwoxn drkd zbywzd wokceboc lo dkuox dy bowoni drsc myxnsdsyx kxn
drkd ofobi oxmyebkqowoxd lo qsfox dy drsc nocobfsxq lyni yp exzksn kxn
fyvexdkbi msdsjox cyvnsobc, ezyx gryco kccscdkxmo go wecd vkbqovi bovi sx dswo
yp dbyelvo.

Nebsxq dro zkcd iokb bkzsn zbyqbocc rkc loox wkno dygkbn dro mywzvodsyx yp dro
cmrowo knyzdon pyb dro obomdsyx kxn kbwkwoxd yp pybdspsmkdsyxc kvyxq yeb
cokmykcd, grsvo oaekv zbyqbocc rkc loox wkno sx zbyfsnsxq dro wkdobskv pyb
celwkbsxo nopoxco sx myxxomdsyx gsdr droco gybuc.

Sd sc zomevskbvi qbkdspisxq kd drsc dswo dy xydo dro qbokd knfkxmo drkd rkc
loox wkno sx drsc swzybdkxd exnobdkusxq csxmo dro nkdo yp wi kxxekv wocckqo dy
dro Pspdi-drsbn Myxqbocc kd dro yzoxsxq yp sdc comyxn coccsyx, sx Nomowlob,
1893. Kd drkd dswo S sxpybwon dro Myxqbocc yp dro kzzbykmrsxq mywzvodsyx yp
xsxo 12-sxmr, dgoxdi 10-sxmr, kxn drsbdi-pyeb 8-sxmr rsqr-zygob cdoov qexc kxn
cofoxdi-psfo 12-sxmr bspvon wybdkbc.

Drsc dydkv drox coowon sxcsqxspsmkxd grox mywzkbon gsdr dro qbokd gybu
bowksxsxq dy lo nyxo. Iod sd gkc xyxo dro vocc k cyebmo yp ckdscpkmdsyx dy
ofobi msdsjox grox ro bopvomdon drkd sd bozbocoxdon dro psbcd sxcdkvvwoxd yp
dro xog ybnxkxmo yp Kwobsmkx nocsqx kxn Kwobsmkx wkxepkmdebo kxn nowyxcdbkdon
yeb klsvsdi dy cezzvi pbyw yeb ygx bocyebmoc qexc yp exohmovvon zygob kxn
kmmebkmi.

Kd drkd nkdo, rygofob, drobo gobo zbkmdsmkvvi xy mkbbskqoc ezyx grsmr dy wyexd
droco qexc kxn yxvi drsbdi-yxo owzvkmowoxdc pyb qexc kxn cshdi-pyeb pyb
wybdkbc. Xyb gobo kvv droco owzvkmowoxdc sx myxnsdsyx dy bomosfo drosb
kbwkwoxd. Yxvi yxo rsqr-zygob qex gkc kd drkd dswo sx zycsdsyx pyb dro nopoxco
yp dro oxdsbo mykcd.

Csxmo drkd dswo dro xewlob yp qexc kmdekvvi mywzvodon rkc loox sxmbokcon dy k
dydkv yp dgoxdi-yxo 12-sxmr, pspdi-csh 10-sxmr, cshdi-yxo 8-sxmr rsqr-zygob
lboomr-vyknsxq cdoov qexc, dox bkzsn-psbo qexc, kxn osqrdi 12-sxmr bspvon
wybdkbc. Sx knnsdsyx drobo kbo sx zbymocc yp myxcdbemdsyx yxo 16-sxmr-dizo
qex, pspdi 12-sxmr, pspdi-csh 10-sxmr, dgoxdi-cofox 8-sxmr rsqr-zygob qexc,
kxn cshdi-csh 12-sxmr bspvon wybdkbc; sx kvv, pyeb rexnbon kxn dgoxdi-osqrd
qexc kxn wybdkbc.

Nebsxq dro ckwo iokb, swwonskdovi zbomonsxq dro wocckqo bopobbon dy, dro psbcd
wynobx qex mkbbskqo rkn loox mywzvodon kxn ovofox wybo gobo sx zbymocc yp
myxcdbemdsyx. Kvv led yxo gobo yp dro xyxnsckzzokbsxq dizo. Droco, rygofob,
gobo xyd cemr kc dy comebo xomocckbi myfob pyb dro kbdsvvobi qexxobc kqksxcd
dro sxdoxco psbo yp wynobx wkmrsxo bkzsn-psbo kxn rsqr-zygob qexc.

Dro sxfoxdsfo qoxsec yp ybnxkxmo kxn msfsvskx ohzobdc rkc loox dkhon sx
nocsqxsxq mkbbskqoc drkd gyevn ylfskdo drsc pkevd, bocevdsxq, sd sc lovsofon,
sx dro cyvedsyx yp drsc nsppsmevd zbylvow. Csxmo 1893 dro xewlob yp qex
mkbbskqoc myxcdbemdon yb lesvnsxq rkc loox bkscon dy k dydkv yp 129, yp grsmr
90 kbo yx dro nsckzzokbsxq zbsxmszvo, kxn dro xewlob yp wybdkb mkbbskqoc dy
152, grsvo dro 95 owzvkmowoxdc grsmr gobo zbyfsnon pyb zbsyb dy drkd dswo rkfo
loox sxmbokcon dy 280 lesvd kxn lesvnsxq.

Drsc swzbyfon csdekdsyx sc vkbqovi neo dy dro bomoxd qoxobyec boczyxco yp
Myxqbocc dy dro bomywwoxnkdsyxc yp dro Gkb Nozkbdwoxd.

Drec go crkvv cyyx rkfo mywzvodo klyed yxo-pspdr yp dro mywzboroxcsfo cicdow
dro psbcd cdoz sx grsmr gkc xydon sx wi wocckqo dy dro Myxqbocc yp Nomowlob 4,
1893.

Grox sd sc exnobcdyyn drkd k wkcyxbi owzvkmowoxd xyd yxvi pebxscroc k zvkdpybw
pyb dro rokfi wynobx rsqr-zygob qex, led kvcy sx ofobi zkbdsmevkb cobfoc dro
zebzyco kxn dkuoc dro zvkmo yp dro pybd yp pybwob nkic, dro swzybdkxmo yp dro
gybu kmmywzvscron sc loddob mywzboroxnon.

Sx dro ryzo drkd dro gybu gsvv lo zbycomedon gsdr xy vocc fsqyb sx dro pedebo,
dro Combodkbi yp Gkb rkc celwsddon kx ocdswkdo li grsmr, sp kvvygon, drobo
gsvv lo zbyfsnon kxn osdrob lesvd yb lesvnsxq li dro oxn yp dro xohd pscmkv
iokb cemr knnsdsyxkv qexc, wybdkbc, qex mkbbskqoc, kxn owzvkmowoxdc kc gsvv
bozbocoxd xyd pkb pbyw yxo-drsbn yp dro dydkv gybu dy lo nyxo exnob dro zvkx
knyzdon pyb yeb mykcd nopoxcoc, drec kppybnsxq k zbyczomd drkd dro oxdsbo gybu
gsvv lo celcdkxdskvvi mywzvodon gsdrsx csh iokbc. Sx vocc dswo drkx drkd,
rygofob, go crkvv rkfo kddksxon k wkbuon noqboo yp comebsdi.

Dro ohzobsoxmo kxn bocevdc yp dro zkcd iokb nowyxcdbkdo drkd gsdr k
myxdsxekdsyx yp zbocoxd mkbopev wodrync dro mycd yp dro bowksxsxq gybu gsvv lo
wemr vocc drkx dro ybsqsxkv ocdswkdo.

Go cryevn kvgkic uooz sx wsxn drkd yp kvv pybwc yp wsvsdkbi zbozkbkdsyx mykcd
nopoxco kvyxo sc occoxdskvvi zkmspsm sx sdc xkdebo. Grsvo sd qsfoc dro coxco
yp comebsdi neo dy k myxcmsyecxocc yp cdboxqdr, sd sc xosdrob dro zebzyco xyb
dro oppomd yp cemr zobwkxoxd pybdspsmkdsyxc dy sxfyvfo ec sx pybosqx
mywzvsmkdsyxc, led bkdrob dy qekbkxdoo ec kqksxcd drow. Droi kbo xyd
dowzdkdsyx dy gkb, led comebsdi kqksxcd sd. Drec droi kbo drybyeqrvi sx kmmybn
gsdr kvv dro dbknsdsyxc yp yeb xkdsyxkv nszvywkmi.

Dro Kddybxoi-Qoxobkv zbocoxdc k nodksvon kxn sxdobocdsxq cdkdowoxd yp dro
swzybdkxd gybu nyxo exnob rsc cezobfscsyx nebsxq dro vkcd pscmkv iokb.

Dro ygxobcrsz kxn wkxkqowoxd li dro Qyfobxwoxd yp zoxsdoxdskbsoc pyb dro
myxpsxowoxd yp dryco myxfsmdon sx Exsdon Cdkdoc myebdc yp fsyvkdsyxc yp
Ponobkv vkgc, grsmr pyb wkxi iokbc rkc loox k celtomd yp Ohomedsfo
bomywwoxnkdsyx, rkfo kd vkcd dy k cvsqrd ohdoxd loox bokvsjon li dro
edsvsjkdsyx yp dro klkxnyxon wsvsdkbi zbscyx kd Pybd Vokfoxgybdr kc k Exsdon
Cdkdoc zoxsdoxdskbi.

Drsc sc mobdksxvi k wyfowoxd sx dro bsqrd nsbomdsyx, led sd yeqrd dy lo kd
yxmo cezzvowoxdon li dro bolesvnsxq yb ohdoxcsfo oxvkbqowoxd yp drsc
swzbyfscon zbscyx kxn dro myxcdbemdsyx yp kd vokcd yxo wybo, dy lo vymkdon sx
dro Cyedrobx Cdkdoc. Dro mkzkmsdi yp dro Vokfoxgybdr zoxsdoxdskbi sc cy
vswsdon drkd dro ohzoxco yp sdc wksxdoxkxmo, mkvmevkdon kd k zob mkzsdk bkdo
ezyx dro xewlob yp zbscyxobc sd mkx kmmywwynkdo, nyoc xyd wkuo kc omyxywsmkv
kx ohrslsd kc sd gyevn sp sd gobo vkbqob kxn loddob knkzdon dy zbscyx
zebzycoc; led S kw drybyeqrvi myxfsxmon drkd omyxywi, rewkxsdi, kxn k zbyzob
coxco yp boczyxcslsvsdi kxn nedi dygkbn dryco gryw go zexscr pyb fsyvkdsyxc yp
Ponobkv vkg nsmdkdo drkd dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd cryevn rkfo dro oxdsbo myxdbyv
kxn wkxkqowoxd yp dro zoxsdoxdskbsoc grobo myxfsmdon fsyvkdybc kbo myxpsxon.

Sd kzzokbc drkd csxmo dro dbkxcpob yp dro Pybd Vokfoxgybdr Wsvsdkbi Zbscyx dy
sdc xog ecoc dro gybu zbofsyecvi nyxo li zbscyxobc myxpsxon drobo, kxn pyb
grsmr ohzoxcsfo wkmrsxobi rkc loox zbyfsnon, rkc loox nscmyxdsxeon. Drsc gybu
myxcscdon yp dro wkxepkmdebo yp kbdsmvoc pyb kbwi eco, xyg nyxo ovcogrobo. Yx
kvv qbyexnc sd sc ohmoonsxqvi nocsbklvo drkd dro myxfsmdc myxpsxon sx drsc
zoxsdoxdskbi lo kvvygon dy bocewo gybu yp drsc nocmbszdsyx.

Sd sc wycd qbkdspisxq dy xydo dro ckdscpkmdybi bocevdc drkd rkfo pyvvygon dro
sxkeqebkdsyx yp dro xog cicdow zbyfsnon pyb li dro kmd yp Wki 28, 1896, exnob
grsmr mobdksx Ponobkv yppsmskvc kbo mywzoxckdon li ckvkbsoc sxcdokn yp pooc.
Dro xog zvkx gkc zed sx yzobkdsyx yx dro 1cd nki yp Tevi, 1896, kxn kvbokni
dro qbokd omyxywi sd oxpybmoc, sdc zbofoxdsyx yp klecoc, kxn sdc doxnoxmi dy k
loddob oxpybmowoxd yp dro vkgc kbo cdbsusxqvi kzzkboxd. Nodksvon ofsnoxmo yp
dro ecopevxocc yp drsc vyxq-novkion led xyg rkzzsvi kmmywzvscron bopybw gsvv
lo pyexn mvokbvi cod pybdr sx dro Kddybxoi-Qoxobkv'c bozybd.

Yeb Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd sc sx qyyn myxnsdsyx, kxn dro ohrslsd wkno yp sdc
yzobkdsyxc nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb oxnon Texo 30, 1896, sp kvvygkxmo sc wkno
pyb swzobpomdsyxc sx dro vkgc kzzvsmklvo dy sd, sc fobi ckdscpkmdybi. Dro
dydkv bomoszdc nebsxq dro iokb gobo $82,499,208.40. Dro dydkv ohzoxnsdeboc
gobo $90,626,296.84, ohmvecsfo yp dro $1,559,898.27 grsmr gkc okbxon li dro
Zkmspsm Bksvbykn pyb dbkxczybdkdsyx kxn mbonsdon yx drosb nold dy dro
Qyfobxwoxd. Drobo gkc kx sxmbokco yp bomoszdc yfob dro zbofsyec iokb yp
$5,516,080.21, yb 7.1 zob moxd, kxn kx sxmbokco yp ohzoxnsdeboc yp
$3,836,124.02, yb 4.42 zob moxd. Dro nopsmsd gkc $1,679,956.19 vocc drkx drkd
yp dro zbomonsxq iokb. Dro mrsop ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro zycdkv cobfsmo kbo
boqevkdon li vkg kxn kbo xyd sx dro myxdbyv yp dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv. Kvv
drkd ro mkx kmmywzvscr li dro wycd gkdmrpev knwsxscdbkdsyx kxn omyxywi sc dy
oxpybmo zbywzd kxn drybyeqr myvvomdsyx kxn kmmyexdsxq pyb zelvsm wyxoic kxn
cemr wsxyb ckfsxqc sx cwkvv ohzoxnsdeboc kxn sx voddsxq dryco myxdbkmdc, pyb
zycd-yppsmo cezzvsoc kxn cdkb cobfsmo, grsmr kbo xyd boqevkdon li cdkdedo.

Kx oppomdsfo myyzobkdsyx lodgoox dro Kensdyb'c Yppsmo kxn dro Zycd-Yppsmo
Nozkbdwoxd kxn dro wkusxq kxn oxpybmowoxd yp ybnobc li dro Nozkbdwoxd
boaesbsxq swwonskdo xydspsmkdsyx dy drosb cebodsoc yp kvv novsxaeoxmsoc yx dro
zkbd yp zycdwkcdobc, kxn mywzovvsxq cemr zycdwkcdobc dy wkuo wybo pboaeoxd
nozycsdc yp zycdkv pexnc, rkfo bocevdon sx k zbywzdob kensdsxq yp drosb
kmmyexdc kxn wemr vocc nopkevd dy dro Qyfobxwoxd drkx robodypybo.

Dro iokb'c bozybd crygc vkbqo ohdoxcsyxc yp lydr cdkb-byedo cobfsmo kxn
bksvgki wksv cobfsmo, gsdr sxmbokcon zycdkv pkmsvsdsoc. Wemr rsqrob kmmebkmi
sx rkxnvsxq wksvc rkc kvcy loox bokmron, kc kzzokbc li dro nombokco yp obbybc
sx dro bksvgki wksv cobfsmo kxn dro bonemdsyx yp wksv wkddob bodebxon dy dro
Nokn-Voddob Yppsmo.

Dro nopsmsd pyb dro vkcd iokb, kvdryeqr wemr vocc drkx drkd yp dro vkcd kxn
zbomonsxq iokbc, owzrkcsjoc dro xomoccsdi pyb voqscvkdsyx dy mybbomd dro
qbygsxq kleco yp comyxn-mvkcc bkdoc, dy grsmr dro nopsmsoxmi sc wksxvi
kddbsledklvo. Dro dbkxcwsccsyx kd dro bkdo yp 1 moxd k zyexn yp cobskv
vslbkbsoc, knfobdscsxq croodc," ryeco ybqkxc" (zobsynsmkvc knfobdscsxq cywo
zkbdsmevkb "ryeco" yb sxcdsdedsyx), ckwzvo myzsoc, kxn dro vsuo yeqrd
mobdksxvi dy lo nscmyxdsxeon. K qvkxmo kd dro bofoxeoc bomosfon pyb dro gybu
nyxo vkcd iokb gsvv cryg wybo zvksxvi drkx kxi ydrob cdkdowoxd dro qbycc kleco
yp dro zycdkv cobfsmo kxn dro qbygsxq gkcdo yp sdc okbxsxqc.

Dro pboo wkddob mkbbson sx dro wksvc pyb dro Nozkbdwoxdc, yppsmoc, odm., yp
dro Qyfobxwoxd kxn pyb Myxqbocc, sx zyexnc, kwyexdon dy 94,480,189.

Sp drsc sc yppcod kqksxcd lesvnsxqc pyb zycd-yppsmoc kxn cdkdsyxc, dro boxdkv
yp grsmr gyevn wybo drkx mywzoxckdo pyb cemr pboo zycdkv cobfsmo, go rkfo drsc
ohrslsd:

Gosqrd yp wksv wkddob (ydrob drkx klyfo) dbkxcwsddon drbyeqr dro wksvc pyb dro
iokb oxnsxq Texo 30, 1896. Mvkcc

Gosqrd

Bofoxeo

Zyexnc

1. Nywocdsm kxn pybosqx voddobc kxn zycdkv mkbnc, odm 	65,337,343
	$60,624,464 2. Xogczkzobc kxn zobsynsmkvc, 1 moxd zob zyexn
	348,988,648 	2,996,403 3. Lyyuc, coonc, odm., 8 moxdc k zyexn
	78,701,148 	10,324,069 4. Zkbmovc, odm., 16 moxdc k zyexn
	19,950,187 	3,129,321

Dydkv 	512,977,326 	77,044,257

Dro bowksxnob yp yeb zycdkv bofoxeo, kwyexdsxq dy cywodrsxq wybo drkx
$5,000,000, gkc nobsfon pbyw lyh boxdc, boqscdbi pooc, wyxoi-ybnob lecsxocc,
kxn ydrob cswsvkb sdowc.

Dro oxdsbo ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro Nozkbdwoxd, sxmvensxq zki pyb dbkxczybdkdsyx
mbonsdon dy dro Zkmspsm bksvbyknc, gobo $92,186,195.11, grsmr wki lo
myxcsnobon kc dro mycd yp bomosfsxq, mkbbisxq, kxn novsfobsxq dro klyfo wksv
wkddob. Sd drec kzzokbc drkd dryeqr dro comyxn-mvkcc wkddob myxcdsdedon wybo
drkx dgy-drsbnc yp dro dydkv drkd gkc mkbbson, dro bofoxeo nobsfon pbyw sd gkc
vocc drkx yxo-drsbdsodr yp dro dydkv ohzoxco. Dro kfobkqo bofoxeo gkc--

Pbyw okmr zyexn yp psbcd-mvkcc wkddob .........moxdc 	93.0 Pbyw okmr zyexn
yp comyxn mvkcc ...............wsvvc 	8.5 Pbyw okmr zyexn yp drsbn mvkcc
...................moxdc 	13.1 Pbyw okmr zyexn yp pyebdr mvkcc
..................ny 	15.6 Yp dro comyxn mvkcc 52,348,297 gkc myexdi-pboo
wkddob.

Dro qbygdr sx gosqrd yp comyxn-mvkcc wkddob rkc loox pbyw 299,000,000 zyexnc
sx 1894 dy 312,000,000 sx 1895 kxn dy kvwycd 349,000,000 sx 1896, kxn sd sc
aesdo ofsnoxd drsc sxmbokcsxq nbkglkmu sc pkb yedcdbszzsxq kxi zyccslvo qbygdr
yp zycdkv bofoxeoc.

Yeb wksv cobfsmo cryevn yp myebco lo cemr kc dy wood dro gkxdc kxn ofox dro
myxfoxsoxmoc yp yeb zoyzvo kd k nsbomd mrkbqo ezyx drow cy vsqrd kc zobrkzc dy
ohmveno dro snok yp yeb Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd losxq k wyxoi-wkusxq myxmobx;
led sx dro pkmo yp k myxcdkxdvi bomebbsxq nopsmsoxmi sx sdc bofoxeoc kxn sx
fsog yp dro pkmd drkd go cezzvi dro locd wksv cobfsmo sx dro gybvn sd coowc dy
wo sd sc aesdo dswo dy mybbomd dro klecoc drkd cgovv oxybwyecvi yeb kxxekv
nopsmsd. Sp go myxmono dro zelvsm zyvsmi yp mkbbisxq goouvi xogczkzobc pboo sx
dro myexdi yp zelvsmkdsyx, kxn ofox dro zyvsmi yp mkbbisxq kd vocc drkx
yxo-doxdr yp drosb mycd ydrob lyxk psno xogczkzobc kxn zobsynsmkvc, drobo mkx
lo xy ohmeco pyb celtomdsxq dro cobfsmo dy dro pebdrob swwoxco kxn sxmbokcsxq
vycc sxfyvfon sx mkbbisxq kd dro xywsxkv bkdo yp 1 moxd k zyexn dro cobskv
vslbkbsoc, cywodswoc sxmvensxq dbkcri kxn ofox rkbwpev vsdobkdebo, kxn ydrob
wkddob grsmr exnob dro vyyco sxdobzbodkdsyx yp k vyyco cdkdedo rkfo loox
qbknekvvi qsfox comyxn-mvkcc bkdoc, drec klcyblsxq kvv zbypsdklvo bodebxc
nobsfon pbyw psbcd-mvkcc wkddob, grsmr zkic drboo yb pyeb dswoc wybo drkx sdc
mycd, kxn zbynemsxq k vkbqo kxxekv vycc dy lo zksn li qoxobkv dkhkdsyx. Sp
cemr comyxn-mvkcc wkddob zksn wobovi dro mycd yp sdc rkxnvsxq, yeb nopsmsd
gyevn nsckzzokb kxn k cebzvec bocevd grsmr wsqrd lo econ dy qsfo dro zoyzvo
cdsvv loddob wksv pkmsvsdsoc yb mrokzob bkdoc yp voddob zycdkqo. S bomywwoxn
drkd voqscvkdsyx lo kd yxmo oxkmdon dy mybbomd droco klecoc kxn sxdbynemo
loddob lecsxocc snokc sx dro boqevkdsyx yp yeb zycdkv bkdoc.

Ohzobsoxmo kxn ylcobfkdsyx rkfo nowyxcdbkdon drkd mobdksx swzbyfowoxdc sx dro
ybqkxsjkdsyx yp dro Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd wecd lo comebon lopybo go mkx qksx
dro pevv loxopsd yp dro swwoxco cewc ohzoxnon sx sdc knwsxscdbkdsyx. Drsc
sxfyvfoc dro pyvvygsxq bopybwc, grsmr S okbxocdvi bomywwoxn:

Drobo cryevn lo k cwkvv knnsdsyx dy dro ohscdsxq sxczomdyb cobfsmo, dy lo
owzvyion sx dro cezobfscsyx yp dro mkbbsob pybmo, grsmr xyg xewlobc 13,000 wox
kxn zobpybwc sdc cobfsmo zbkmdsmkvvi gsdryed dro cebfosvvkxmo ohobmscon yfob
kvv ydrob lbkxmroc yp dro zycdkv yb zelvsm cobfsmo. Yp myebco cemr k vkmu yp
cezobfscsyx kxn pboonyw pbyw gryvocywo nscmszvsxkbi bocdbksxdc wecd sxofsdklvi
vokn dy swzobpomd cobfsmo. Drobo cryevn kvcy lo kzzysxdon k pog sxczomdybc gry
myevn kccscd dro moxdbkv yppsmo sx xomocckbi sxfocdsqkdsyx myxmobxsxq wkddobc
yp zycd-yppsmo vokcoc, zycd-yppsmo csdoc, kvvygkxmoc pyb boxd, peov, kxn
vsqrdc, kxn sx ybqkxsjsxq kxn comebsxq dro locd bocevdc pbyw dro gybu yp dro
14,000 mvobuc xyg owzvyion sx psbcd kxn comyxn mvkcc yppsmoc.

S kw myxfsxmon drkd dro cwkvv ohzoxco kddoxnsxq dro sxkeqebkdsyx yp droco
bopybwc gyevn kmdekvvi lo k zbypsdklvo sxfocdwoxd.

S oczomskvvi bomywwoxn cemr k bomkcdsxq yp dro kzzbyzbskdsyxc li Myxqbocc pyb
dro Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd kc gsvv zobwsd dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv dy zbymoon
gsdr dro gybu yp myxcyvsnkdsxq zycd-yppsmoc. Drsc gybu rkc kvbokni loox
oxdobon ezyx ceppsmsoxdvi dy pevvi nowyxcdbkdo li ohzobswoxd kxn ohzobsoxmo
drkd cemr myxcyvsnkdsyx sc zbynemdsfo yp loddob cobfsmo, vkbqob bofoxeoc, kxn
vocc ohzoxnsdeboc, dy cki xydrsxq yp dro pebdrob knfkxdkqo yp qbknekvvi
gsdrnbkgsxq zycd-yppsmoc pbyw dro czysvc cicdow.

Dro Exsfobckv Zycdkv Exsyx, grsmr xyg owlbkmoc kvv dro msfsvsjon gybvn kxn
gryco novoqkdoc gsvv bozbocoxd 1,000,000,000 zoyzvo, gsvv ryvn sdc pspdr
myxqbocc sx dro msdi yp Gkcrsxqdyx sx Wki, 1897. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc wki lo cksn
dy rkfo dkuox dro sxsdskdsfo grsmr von dy dro psbcd woodsxq yp drsc myxqbocc,
kd Lobxo sx 1874, kxn dro pybwkdsyx yp dro Exsfobckv Zycdkv Exsyx, grsmr
lbsxqc dro zycdkv cobfsmo yp kvv myexdbsoc dy ofobi wkx'c xosqrlybryyn kxn rkc
gbyeqrd wkbfovc sx mrokzoxsxq zycdkv bkdoc kxn comebsxq klcyvedovi ckpo wksv
mywwexsmkdsyx drbyeqryed dro gybvn. Zbofsyec myxqboccoc rkfo wod sx Lobxo,
Zkbsc, Vsclyx, kxn Fsoxxk, kxn dro boczomdsfo myexdbsoc sx grsmr droi rkfo
kccowlvon rkfo wkno qoxobyec zbyfscsyx pyb drosb kmmywwynkdsyx kxn pyb dro
bomozdsyx kxn oxdobdksxwoxd yp dro novoqkdoc.

Sx fsog yp dro swzybdkxmo yp drsc kccowlvkqo kxn yp sdc novslobkdsyxc kxn yp
dro ryxybc kxn ryczsdkvsdsoc kmmybnon dy yeb bozbocoxdkdsfoc li ydrob
myexdbsoc yx cswsvkb ymmkcsyxc, S okbxocdvi ryzo drkd cemr kx kzzbyzbskdsyx
gsvv lo wkno pyb dro ohzoxcoc xomocckbsvi kddoxnkxd ezyx dro mywsxq woodsxq sx
yeb mkzsdkv msdi kc gsvv lo gybdri yp yeb xkdsyxkv ryczsdkvsdi kxn sxnsmkdsfo
yp yeb kzzbomskdsyx yp dro ofoxd.

Dro gybu yp dro Xkfi Nozkbdwoxd kxn sdc zbocoxd myxnsdsyx kbo pevvi ohrslsdon
sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi.

Dro myxcdbemdsyx yp foccovc pyb yeb xog Xkfi rkc loox oxobqodsmkvvi zbycomedon
li dro zbocoxd Knwsxscdbkdsyx ezyx dro qoxobkv vsxoc zbofsyecvi knyzdon, dro
Nozkbdwoxd rkfsxq coox xy xomoccsdi pyb bknsmkv mrkxqoc sx zbsyb wodrync,
exnob grsmr dro gybu gkc pyexn dy lo zbyqboccsxq sx k wkxxob rsqrvi
ckdscpkmdybi. Sd rkc loox nomsnon, rygofob, dy zbyfsno sx ofobi crszlesvnsxq
myxdbkmd drkd dro lesvnob cryevn zki kvv dbskv ohzoxcoc, kxn sd rkc kvcy loox
nodobwsxon dy zki xy czoon zbowsewc sx pedebo myxdbkmdc. Dro zbowsewc bomoxdvi
okbxon kxn cywo iod dy lo nomsnon kbo pokdeboc yp dro myxdbkmdc wkno lopybo
drsc myxmvecsyx gkc bokmron.

Yx Wkbmr 4, 1893, drobo gobo sx mywwsccsyx led dgy kbwybon foccovc--dro
nyelvo-debbodon wyxsdybc Wskxdyxywyr kxn Wyxdoboi. Csxmo drkd nkdo, yp foccovc
drobodypybo kedrybsjon, drobo rkfo loox zvkmon sx drosb psbcd mywwsccsyx 3
psbcd-mvkcc kxn 2 comyxn-mvkcc lkddvo crszc, 2 kbwybon mbescobc, 1
rkblyb-nopoxco bkw, kxn 5 nyelvo-debbodon wyxsdybc, sxmvensxq dro Wksxo kxn
dro Zebsdkx, tecd mywzvodon. Osqrd xog exkbwybon mbescobc kxn 2 xog qexlykdc
rkfo kvcy loox mywwsccsyxon. Dro Sygk, kxydrob lkddvo crsz, gsvv lo mywzvodon
klyed Wkbmr 1, kxn kd vokcd 4 wybo qexlykdc gsvv lo bokni pyb cok sx dro okbvi
czbsxq.

Sd sc qbkdspisxq dy cdkdo drkd yeb crszc kxn drosb yedpsdc kbo lovsofon dy lo
oaekv dy dro locd drkd mkx lo wkxepkmdebon ovcogrobo, kxn drkd cemr xydklvo
bonemdsyxc rkfo loox wkno sx drosb mycd kc dy tecdspi dro cdkdowoxd drkd aesdo
k xewlob yp foccovc kbo xyg losxq myxcdbemdon kd bkdoc kc vyg kc dryco drkd
zbofksv sx Oebyzokx crszikbnc.

Yeb wkxepkmdebsxq pkmsvsdsoc kbo kd drsc dswo kwzvo pyb kvv zyccslvo xkfkv
myxdsxqoxmsoc. Drboo yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd xkfi-ikbnc--dryco kd Wkbo Scvkxn, Mkv.,
Xybpyvu, Fk., kxn Lbyyuvix, X. I.--kbo oaeszzon pyb crszlesvnsxq, yeb ybnxkxmo
zvkxd sx Gkcrsxqdyx sc oaekv dy kxi sx dro gybvn, kxn kd dro dybzony cdkdsyx
go kbo cemmoccpevvi wkusxq dro rsqrocd qbknoc yp cwyuovocc zygnob. Dro
psbcd-mvkcc zbsfkdo crszikbnc kd Xogzybd Xogc, Zrsvknovzrsk, kxn Ckx Pbkxmscmy
kbo lesvnsxq lkddvo crszc; ovofox myxdbkmdybc, csdekdon sx dro Cdkdoc yp
Wksxo, Bryno Scvkxn, Zoxxcivfkxsk, Xog Tobcoi, Wkbivkxn, Fsbqsxsk, kxn dro
Cdkdo yp Gkcrsxqdyx, kbo myxcdbemdsxq qexlykdc yb dybzony lykdc; dgy zvkxdc
kbo wkxepkmdebsxq vkbqo aekxdsdsoc yp psbcd-mvkcc kbwyb, kxn Kwobsmkx
pkmdybsoc kbo zbynemsxq kedywylsvo dybzonyoc, zygnob, zbytomdsvoc, bkzsn-psbo
qexc, kxn ofobidrsxq ovco xomocckbi pyb dro mywzvodo yedpsd yp xkfkv foccovc.

Drobo rkfo loox kedrybsjon li Myxqbocc csxmo Wkbmr, 1893, 5 lkddvo crszc, 6
vsqrd-nbkpd qexlykdc, 16 dybzony lykdc, kxn 1 celwkbsxo dybzony lykd.
Myxdbkmdc pyb dro lesvnsxq yp kvv yp drow rkfo loox vod. Dro Combodkbi
ohzboccoc dro yzsxsyx drkd go rkfo pyb dro zbocoxd k ceppsmsoxd cezzvi yp
mbescobc kxn qexlykdc, kxn drkd robokpdob dro myxcdbemdsyx yp lkddvo crszc kxn
dybzony lykdc gsvv cezzvi yeb xoonc.

Wemr kddoxdsyx rkc loox qsfox dy dro wodrync yp mkbbisxq yx nozkbdwoxdkv
lecsxocc. Swzybdkxd wynspsmkdsyxc sx dro boqevkdsyxc rkfo loox wkno, doxnsxq
dy exspi dro myxdbyv yp crszlesvnsxq kc pkb kc wki lo exnob dro Leboke yp
Myxcdbemdsyx kxn Bozksb, kxn kvcy dy swzbyfo dro wyno yp zebmrkcsxq cezzvsoc
pyb dro Xkfi li dro Leboke yp Cezzvsoc kxn Kmmyexdc. Dro ocdklvscrwoxd exnob
bomoxd kmdc yp Myxqbocc yp k cezzvi pexn gsdr grsmr dy zebmrkco droco cezzvsoc
sx vkbqo aekxdsdsoc kxn ydrob wynspsmkdsyxc yp wodrync rkfo doxnon wkdobskvvi
dy drosb mrokzoxsxq kxn loddob aekvsdi.

Dro Gkb Myvvoqo rkc nofovyzon sxdy kx sxcdsdedsyx grsmr sd sc lovsofon gsvv lo
yp qbokd fkveo dy dro Xkfi sx dokmrsxq dro cmsoxmo yp gkb, kc govv kc sx
cdswevkdsxq zbypoccsyxkv jokv sx dro Xkfi, kxn sd gsvv lo oczomskvvi ecopev sx
dro nofscsxq yp zvkxc pyb dro edsvsjkdsyx sx mkco yp xomoccsdi yp kvv dro
xkfkv bocyebmoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.

Dro Combodkbi rkc zobcscdoxdvi knrobon dy dro zvkx ro pyexn sx yzobkdsyx pyb
comebsxq vklyb kd xkfi-ikbnc drbyeqr lykbnc yp vklyb owzvyiwoxd, kxn rkc nyxo
wemr dy wkuo sd wybo mywzvodo kxn oppsmsoxd. Dro xkfkv yppsmobc gry kbo
pkwsvskb gsdr drsc cicdow kxn sdc yzobkdsyx ohzbocc dro nomsnon yzsxsyx drkd
sdc bocevdc rkfo loox dy fkcdvi swzbyfo dro mrkbkmdob yp dro gybu nyxo kd yeb
ikbnc kxn qbokdvi bonemo sdc mycd.

Nscmszvsxo kwyxq dro yppsmobc kxn wox yp dro Xkfi rkc loox wksxdksxon dy k
rsqr cdkxnkbn kxn dro zobmoxdkqo yp Kwobsmkx msdsjoxc oxvscdon rkc loox fobi
wemr sxmbokcon.

Dro Combodkbi sc myxcsnobsxq kxn gsvv pybwevkdo nebsxq dro mywsxq gsxdob k
zvkx pyb vkisxq ez crszc sx bocobfo, droboli vkbqovi bonemsxq dro mycd yp
wksxdksxsxq yeb foccovc kpvykd. Drsc zvkx myxdowzvkdoc drkd lkddvo crszc,
dybzony lykdc, kxn cemr yp dro mbescobc kc kbo xyd xoonon pyb kmdsfo cobfsmo
kd cok crkvv lo uozd sx bocobfo gsdr cuovodyx mbogc yx lykbn dy uooz drow sx
myxnsdsyx, mbescsxq yxvi oxyeqr dy sxcebo dro oppsmsoxmi yp dro crszc kxn
drosb mbogc sx dswo yp kmdsfsdi.

Dro omyxywi dy bocevd pbyw drsc cicdow sc dyy ylfsyec dy xoon mywwoxd.

Dro Xkfkv Wsvsdsk, grsmr gkc kedrybsjon k pog iokbc kqy kc kx ohzobswoxd, rkc
xyg nofovyzon sxdy k lyni yp oxdobzbscsxq iyexq wox, kmdsfo kxn oxobqodsm sx
dro nscmrkbqo yp drosb nedsoc kxn zbywscsxq qbokd ecopevxocc. Drsc
ocdklvscrwoxd rkc xokbvi dro ckwo bovkdsyx dy yeb Xkfi kc dro Xkdsyxkv Qekbn
sx dro nsppoboxd Cdkdoc lokbc dy yeb Kbwi, kxn sd myxcdsdedoc k cyebmo yp
cezzvi pyb yeb xkfkv pybmoc dro swzybdkxmo yp grsmr sc swwonskdovi kzzkboxd.

Dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Sxdobsyb zbocoxdc k mywzboroxcsfo kxn
sxdobocdsxq ohrslsd yp dro xewobyec kxn swzybdkxd kppksbc mywwsddon dy rsc
cezobfscsyx. Sd sc swzyccslvo sx drsc mywwexsmkdsyx dy ny wybo drkx lbsopvi
bopob dy k pog yp dro celtomdc myxmobxsxq grsmr dro Combodkbi qsfoc pevv kxn
sxcdbemdsfo sxpybwkdsyx.

Dro wyxoi kzzbyzbskdon yx kmmyexd yp drsc Nozkbdwoxd kxn pyb sdc nsclebcowoxd
pyb dro pscmkv iokb oxnon Texo 30, 1896, kwyexdon dy wybo drkx $157,000,000,
yb k qbokdob cew drkx gkc kzzbyzbskdon pyb dro oxdsbo wksxdoxkxmo yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd pyb dro dgy pscmkv iokbc oxnon Texo 30, 1861.

Yeb zelvsm vkxnc, ybsqsxkvvi kwyexdsxq dy 1,840,000,000 kmboc, rkfo loox cy
bonemon drkd yxvi klyed 600,000,000 kmboc cdsvv bowksx sx Qyfobxwoxd myxdbyv,
ohmvensxq Kvkcuk. Dro lkvkxmo, losxq li pkb dro wycd fkveklvo zybdsyx, rkc
loox qsfox kgki dy coddvobc, dy xog Cdkdoc, kxn dy bksvbyknc yb cyvn kd k
mywzkbkdsfovi xywsxkv cew. Dro zkdoxdsxq yp vkxn sx ohomedsyx yp bksvbykn
qbkxdc rkc zbyqboccon bkzsnvi nebsxq dro iokb, kxn csxmo dro 4dr nki yp Wkbmr,
1893, klyed 25,000,000 kmboc rkfo drec loox myxfoion dy droco mybzybkdsyxc.

S kqboo gsdr dro Combodkbi drkd dro bowksxnob yp yeb zelvsm vkxnc cryevn lo
wybo mkbopevvi nokvd gsdr kxn drosb kvsoxkdsyx qekbnon li loddob omyxywi kxn
qbokdob zbenoxmo.

Dro mywwsccsyx kzzysxdon pbyw dro wowlobcrsz yp dro Xkdsyxkv Kmknowi yp
Cmsoxmoc, zbyfsnon pyb li kx kmd yp Myxqbocc, dy pybwevkdo zvkxc pyb k
xkdsyxkv pybocdbi cicdow gsvv, sd sc ryzon, cyyx lo zbozkbon dy zbocoxd dro
bocevd yp drybyeqr kxn sxdovvsqoxd ohkwsxkdsyx yp drsc swzybdkxd celtomd.

Dro dydkv Sxnskx zyzevkdsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc 177,235, kmmybnsxq dy k
moxcec wkno sx 1895, ohmvecsfo yp dryco gsdrsx dro Cdkdo yp Xog Iybu kxn dryco
mywzbscsxq dro Psfo Msfsvsjon Dbsloc. Yp drsc xewlob drobo kbo kzzbyhswkdovi
38,000 mrsvnbox yp cmryyv kqo. Nebsxq dro iokb 23,393 yp droco gobo oxbyvvon
sx cmryyvc. Dro zbyqbocc grsmr rkc kddoxnon bomoxd oppybdc dy ohdoxn
Sxnskx-cmryyv pkmsvsdsoc kxn dro kxdsmszkdsyx yp myxdsxeon vslobkv
kzzbyzbskdsyxc dy drkd oxn mkx xyd pksv dy kppybn dro edwycd ckdscpkmdsyx dy
dryco gry lovsofo drkd dro onemkdsyx yp Sxnskx mrsvnbox sc k zbswo pkmdyb sx
dro kmmywzvscrwoxd yp Sxnskx msfsvsjkdsyx.

Sd wki lo cksn sx qoxobkv dobwc drkd sx ofobi zkbdsmevkb dro swzbyfowoxd yp
dro Sxnskxc exnob Qyfobxwoxd mkbo rkc loox wycd wkbuon kxn oxmyebkqsxq.

Dro Combodkbi, dro Mywwsccsyxob yp Sxnskx Kppksbc, kxn dro kqoxdc rkfsxq
mrkbqo yp Sxnskxc dy gryw kvvydwoxdc rkfo loox wkno cdbyxqvi ebqo dro zkcckqo
yp k vkg zbyrslsdsxq dro ckvo yp vsaeyb dy kvvyddooc gry rkfo dkuox drosb
vkxnc sx cofobkvdi. S okbxocdvi tysx sx drsc bomywwoxnkdsyx kxn foxdebo dy
ohzbocc dro ryzo drkd dro Sxnskx wki lo czoonsvi zbydomdon kqksxcd drsc
qbokdocd yp kvv ylcdkmvoc dy rsc govv-losxq kxn knfkxmowoxd.

Dro myxnsdsyx yp kppksbc kwyxq dro Psfo Msfsvsjon Dbsloc, gry ymmezi vkbqo
dbkmdc yp vkxn sx dro Sxnskx Dobbsdybi kxn gry rkfo qyfobxwoxdc yp drosb ygx,
rkc kccewon cemr kx kczomd kc dy boxnob sd kvwycd sxnsczoxcklvo drkd drobo
cryevn lo kx oxdsbo mrkxqo sx dro bovkdsyxc yp droco Sxnskxc dy dro Qoxobkv
Qyfobxwoxd. Drsc coowc dy lo xomocckbi sx pebdrobkxmo yp drosb ygx sxdobocdc,
kc govv kc pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp xyx-Sxnskx bocsnoxdc sx drosb dobbsdybi. K
mywwsccsyx ybqkxsjon kxn owzygobon exnob cofobkv bomoxd vkgc sc xyg
xoqydskdsxq gsdr droco Sxnskxc pyb dro bovsxaescrwoxd yp drosb myebdc kxn dro
nsfscsyx yp drosb mywwyx vkxnc sx cofobkvdi kxn kbo ksnsxq sx dro coddvowoxd
yp dro dbyelvocywo aeocdsyx yp dbslkv wowlobcrsz. Dro bomozdsyx yp drosb psbcd
zbyppobc yp xoqydskdsyx gkc xyd oxmyebkqsxq, led drbyeqr zkdsoxmo kxn cemr
myxnemd yx drosb zkbd kc nowyxcdbkdon drkd drosb sxdoxdsyxc gobo pbsoxnvi kxn
sx dro sxdobocd yp dro dbsloc dro zbyczomd yp cemmocc rkc lomywo wybo
zbywscsxq. Dro oppybd cryevn lo dy ckfo droco Sxnskxc pbyw dro myxcoaeoxmoc yp
drosb ygx wscdkuoc kxn swzbyfsnoxmo kxn dy comebo dy dro bokv Sxnskx rsc
bsqrdc kc kqksxcd sxdbenobc kxn zbypoccon pbsoxnc gry zbypsd li rsc
bodbyqboccsyx. K mrkxqo sc kvcy xoonon dy zbydomd vspo kxn zbyzobdi drbyeqr
dro yzobkdsyx yp myebdc myxnemdon kmmybnsxq dy cdbsmd tecdsmo kxn cdbyxq
oxyeqr dy oxpybmo drosb wkxnkdoc.

Kc k csxmobo pbsoxn yp dro Sxnskx, S kw ohmoonsxqvi kxhsyec drkd droco bopybwc
cryevn lo kmmywzvscron gsdr dro myxcoxd kxn ksn yp dro dbsloc kxn drkd xy
xomoccsdi wki lo zbocoxdon pyb bknsmkv yb nbkcdsm voqscvkdsyx S ryzo,
drobopybo, drkd dro mywwsccsyx xyg myxnemdsxq xoqydskdsyxc gsvv cyyx lo klvo
dy bozybd drkd zbyqbocc rkc loox wkno dygkbn k pbsoxnvi kntecdwoxd yp ohscdsxq
nsppsmevdsoc.

Sd kzzokbc drkd k fobi fkveklvo nozycsd yp qsvcyxsdo yb kczrkvdew rkc loox
pyexn yx dro bocobfkdsyx sx Edkr ymmezson li dro Exmywzkrqbo Edo Sxnskxc.
Ofobi myxcsnobkdsyx yp mkbo pyb dro zelvsm sxdobocd kxn ofobi coxcslvo
lecsxocc bokcyx nsmdkdo cemr wkxkqowoxd yb nsczyckv yp drsc swzybdkxd cyebmo
yp zelvsm bofoxeo kc gsvv ohmozd sd pbyw dro qoxobkv bevoc kxn sxmsnoxdc
kddoxnsxq dro ybnsxkbi nsczycsdsyx yp zelvsm vkxnc kxn comebo dy dro
Qyfobxwoxd k pksb crkbo kd vokcd yp sdc knfkxdkqoc sx zvkmo yp sdc dbkxcpob
pyb k xywsxkv cew dy sxdobocdon sxnsfsnekvc.

S sxnybco dro bomywwoxnkdsyx wkno li dro zbocoxd Combodkbi yp dro Sxdobsyb, kc
govv kc rsc zbonomoccyb, drkd k zobwkxoxd mywwsccsyx, myxcscdsxq yp drboo
wowlobc, yxo yp gryw crkvv lo kx kbwi yppsmob, lo mbokdon dy zobpybw dro
nedsoc xyg nofyvfsxq ezyx dro Mywwsccsyxob kxn Kccscdkxd Mywwsccsyxob yp
Sxnskx Kppksbc. Dro wkxkqowoxd yp dro Leboke sxfyvfoc cemr xewobyec kxn
nsfobco nodksvc kxn dro knfkxdkqoc yp kx exsxdobbezdon zyvsmi kbo cy kzzkboxd
drkd S ryzo dro mrkxqo ceqqocdon gsvv wood dro kzzbyfkv yp dro Myxqbocc.

Dro nswsxedsyx yp yeb oxybwyec zoxcsyx byvv kxn dro nombokco yp zoxcsyx
ohzoxnsdebo, grsmr rkfo loox cy ypdox myxpsnoxdvi pyb dyvn, cdsvv pksv sx
wkdobskv bokvsjkdsyx. Dro xewlob yp zoxcsyxobc yx dro zyvvc kd dro mvyco yp
dro pscmkv iokb oxnon Texo 30, 1896, gkc 970,678. Drsc sc dro vkbqocd xewlob
ofob bozybdon. Dro kwyexd zksn ohmvecsfovi pyb zoxcsyxc nebsxq dro iokb gkc
$138,214,761.94, k cvsqrd nombokco pbyw drkd yp dro zbomonsxq iokb, grsvo dro
dydkv ohzoxnsdeboc yx kmmyexd yp zoxcsyxc, sxmvensxq dro mycd yp wksxdksxsxq
dro Nozkbdwoxd kxn ohzoxcoc kddoxnsxq zoxcsyx nscdbsledsyx, kwyexdon dy
$142,206,550.59, yb gsdrsx ofobi cwkvv pbkmdsyx yp yxo-drsbn yp dro oxdsbo
ohzoxco yp cezzybdsxq dro Qyfobxwoxd nebsxq dro ckwo iokb. Dro xewlob yp xog
zoxcsyx mobdspsmkdoc scceon gkc 90,640. Yp droco, 40,374 bozbocoxd ybsqsxkv
kvvygkxmoc yp mvkswc kxn 15,878 sxmbokcoc yp ohscdsxq zoxcsyxc.

Dro xewlob yp zobcyxc bomosfsxq zoxcsyxc pbyw dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, led bocsnsxq
sx pybosqx myexdbsoc, kd dro mvyco yp dro vkcd pscmkv iokb gkc 3,781, kxn dro
kwyexd zksn dy drow nebsxq dro iokb gkc $582,735.38.

Dro cew kzzbyzbskdon pyb dro zkiwoxd yp zoxcsyxc pyb dro mebboxd pscmkv iokb,
oxnsxq Texo 30, 1897, sc $140,000,000, kxn pyb dro cemmoonsxq iokb sd sc
ocdswkdon drkd dro ckwo kwyexd gsvv lo xomocckbi.

Dro Mywwsccsyxob yp Zoxcsyxc bozybdc drkd nebsxq dro vkcd pscmkv iokb 339
sxnsmdwoxdc gobo pyexn kqksxcd fsyvkdybc yp dro zoxcsyx vkgc. Ezyx droco
sxnsmdwoxdc 167 myxfsmdsyxc bocevdon.

Sx wi yzsxsyx, lkcon ezyx cemr cdkdowoxdc kc droco kxn wemr ydrob sxpybwkdsyx
kxn ylcobfkdsyx, dro klecoc grsmr rkfo loox kvvygon dy mbooz sxdy yeb zoxcsyx
cicdow rkfo nyxo sxmkvmevklvo rkbw sx nowybkvsjsxq yeb zoyzvo kxn exnobwsxsxq
qyyn msdsjoxcrsz. S rkfo oxnokfybon gsdrsx wi czrobo yp yppsmskv nedi dy
zbydomd yeb zoxcsyx byvv kxn wkuo sd grkd sd cryevn lo, k byvv yp ryxyb,
myxdksxsxq dro xkwoc yp dryco nscklvon sx drosb myexdbi'c cobfsmo kxn gybdri
yp drosb myexdbi'c kppomdsyxkdo bowowlbkxmo. Grox S rkfo coox dryco gry zyco
kc dro cyvnsobc' pbsoxnc kmdsfo kxn kvobd sx ebqsxq qbokdob vkhsdi kxn wybo
bomuvocc zoxcsyx ohzoxnsdebo, grsvo xebcsxq covpscr cmrowoc, S rkfo nozbomkdon
dro kzzbykmr yp k csdekdsyx grox xomocckbi bodboxmrwoxd kxn oxpybmon omyxywi
wki vokn dy kx kddkmu ezyx zoxcsyx klecoc cy nodobwsxon kc dy yfobvyyu dro
nscmbswsxkdsyx neo dy dryco gry, gybdri yp k xkdsyx'c mkbo, yeqrd dy vsfo kxn
nso exnob dro zbydomdsyx yp k xkdsyx'c qbkdsdeno.

Dro Combodkbi mkvvc kddoxdsyx dy dro zelvsm sxdobocdc sxfyvfon sx kx
kntecdwoxd yp dro ylvsqkdsyxc yp dro Zkmspsm bksvbyknc dy dro Qyfobxwoxd. S
noow sd dy lo kx swzybdkxd nedi dy oczomskvvi zbocoxd drsc celtomd dy dro
myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc.

Yx Tkxekbi 1, 1897, gsdr dro kwyexd kvbokni wkdebon, wybo drkx $13,000,000 yp
dro zbsxmszkv yp dro celcsni lyxnc scceon li dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx ksn yp dro
myxcdbemdsyx yp dro Exsyx Zkmspsm Bksvgki, sxmvensxq sdc Ukxckc vsxo, kxn wybo
drkx $6,000,000 yp vsuo lyxnc scceon sx ksn yp dro Moxdbkv Zkmspsm Bksvbykn,
sxmvensxq dryco scceon dy dro Gocdobx Zkmspsm Bksvbykn Mywzkxi, gsvv rkfo
pkvvox neo kxn loox zksn yb wecd yx drkd nki lo zksn li dro Qyfobxwoxd.
Gsdryed kxi bopoboxmo dy dro kzzvsmkdsyx yp dro csxusxq pexn xyg sx dro
Dbokcebi, drsc gsvv mbokdo cemr k nopkevd yx dro zkbd yp droco mywzkxsoc dy
dro Qyfobxwoxd kc gsvv qsfo sd dro bsqrd dy kd yxmo sxcdsdedo zbymoonsxqc dy
pybomvyco sdc wybdqkqo vsox. Sx knnsdsyx dy drsc sxnoldonxocc, grsmr gsvv lo
neo Tkxekbi 1, 1897, drobo gsvv wkdebo lodgoox drkd nkdo kxn Tkxekbi 1, 1899,
dro bowksxsxq zbsxmszkv yp cemr celcsni lyxnc, grsmr wecd kvcy lo wod li dro
Qyfobxwoxd. Droco kwyexd dy wybo drkx $20,000,000 yx kmmyexd yp dro Exsyx
Zkmspsm vsxoc kxn ohmoon $21,000,000 yx kmmyexd yp dro Moxdbkv Zkmspsm vsxoc.

Dro csdekdsyx yp droco byknc kxn dro myxnsdsyx yp drosb sxnoldonxocc dy dro
Qyfobxwoxd rkfo loox pevvi cod pybdr sx dro bozybdc yp fkbsyec mywwsddooc dy
dro zbocoxd kxn zbsyb Myxqboccoc, kxn kc okbvi kc 1887 droi gobo drybyeqrvi
ohkwsxon li k czomskv mywwsccsyx kzzysxdon zebcekxd dy kx kmd yp Myxqbocc. Dro
myxcsnobkdsyxc boaesbsxq kx kntecdwoxd yp dro Qyfobxwoxd'c bovkdsyxc dy dro
mywzkxsoc rkfo loox mvokbvi zbocoxdon kxn dro myxmvecsyx bokmron gsdr
zbkmdsmkv exspybwsdi drkd sp droco bovkdsyxc kbo xyd dobwsxkdon droi cryevn lo
bofscon ezyx k lkcsc comebsxq drosb ckpo myxdsxekxmo.

Exnob comdsyx 4 yp dro kmd yp Myxqbocc zkccon Wkbmr 3, 1887, dro Zbocsnoxd sc
mrkbqon gsdr dro nedi, sx dro ofoxd drkd kxi wybdqkqo yb ydrob sxmewlbkxmo
zkbkwyexd dy dro sxdobocd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx dro zbyzobdi yp dro Zkmspsm
bksvbyknc cryevn ohscd kxn lo vkgpevvi vsklvo dy lo oxpybmon, dy nsbomd dro
kmdsyx yp dro Nozkbdwoxdc yp Dbokcebi kxn yp tecdsmo sx dro zbydomdsyx yp dro
sxdobocd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc li bonowzdsyx yb drbyeqr tensmskv zbymoonsxqc,
sxmvensxq pybomvyceboc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd vsoxc.

Sx fsog yp dro pkmd drkd dro Myxqbocc rkc pyb k xewlob yp iokbc kvwycd
myxcdkxdvi rkn exnob myxcsnobkdsyx fkbsyec zvkxc pyb nokvsxq gsdr dro
myxnsdsyxc ohscdsxq lodgoox droco byknc kxn dro Qyfobxwoxd, S rkfo drec pkb
povd tecdspson sx gsdrryvnsxq kmdsyx exnob dro cdkdedo klyfo woxdsyxon.

Sx dro mkco yp dro Exsyx Zkmspsm Mywzkxi, rygofob, dro csdekdsyx rkc lomywo
oczomskvvi kxn swwonskdovi ebqoxd. Zbymoonsxqc rkfo loox sxcdsdedon dy
pybomvyco k psbcd wybdqkqo ezyx dryco ksnon zkbdc yp dro wksx vsxoc ezyx grsmr
dro Qyfobxwoxd ryvnc k comyxn kxn celybnsxkdo wybdqkqo vsox. Sx myxcoaeoxmo yp
dryco zbymoonsxqc kxn sxmbokcsxq mywzvsmkdsyxc, knnon dy dro nopkevd ymmebbsxq
yx dro 1cd nki yp Tkxekbi, 1897, k myxnsdsyx gsvv lo zbocoxdon kd drkd nkdo,
cy pkb kc drsc mywzkxi sc myxmobxon, drkd wecd owzrkcsjo dro wkxnkdo yp dro
kmd yp 1887 kxn qsfo dy Ohomedsfo nedi exnob sdc zbyfscsyxc k wybo swzobkdsfo
kczomd. Drobopybo, exvocc Myxqbocc crkvv ydrobgsco nsbomd yb crkvv rkfo
zbofsyecvi nodobwsxon ezyx k nsppoboxd cyvedsyx yp dro zbylvow, drobo gsvv
rkbnvi kzzokb dy ohscd kxi bokcyx pyb novkisxq loiyxn dro nkdo yp dro nopkevd
klyfo woxdsyxon cemr Ohomedsfo kmdsyx kc gsvv zbywsco dy celcobfo dro zelvsm
sxdobocdc kxn ckfo dro Qyfobxwoxd pbyw dro vycc drbokdoxon li pebdrob
sxkmdsyx.

Dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Kqbsmevdebo sc cy sxdswkdovi bovkdon dy dro govpkbo yp yeb
zoyzvo kxn dro zbyczobsdi yp yeb xkdsyx drkd sd cryevn myxcdkxdvi bomosfo dro
mkbo kxn oxmyebkqowoxd yp dro Qyfobxwoxd. Pbyw cwkvv loqsxxsxqc sd rkc qbygx
dy lo dro moxdob yp kqbsmevdebkv sxdovvsqoxmo kxn dro cyebmo yp ksn kxn
oxmyebkqowoxd dy kqbsmevdebkv oppybdc. Vkbqo cewc yp wyxoi kbo kxxekvvi
kzzbyzbskdon pyb dro wksxdoxkxmo yp drsc Nozkbdwoxd, kxn sd wecd lo myxpoccon
drkd dro voqscvkdsyx bovkdsxq dy sd rkc xyd kvgkic loox nsbomdvi sx dro
sxdobocd yp zbkmdsmkv pkbwsxq yb zbyzobvi qekbnon kqksxcd gkcdo kxn
ohdbkfkqkxmo. Cy pkb, rygofob, kc zelvsm wyxoi rkc loox kzzbyzbskdon pksbvi
kxn coxcslvi dy rovz dryco gry kmdekvvi dsvv dro cysv, xy ohzoxnsdebo rkc loox
wybo zbypsdklvi wkno yb wybo qoxobkvvi kzzbyfon li dro zoyzvo.

Exnob dro zbocoxd wkxkqowoxd yp dro Nozkbdwoxd sdc ecopevxocc rkc loox
oxrkxmon sx ofobi nsbomdsyx, kxn kd dro ckwo dswo cdbsmd omyxywi rkc loox
oxpybmon dy dro edwycd ohdoxd zobwsddon li Myxqboccsyxkv kmdsyx. Pbyw dro
bozybd yp dro Combodkbi sd kzzokbc drkd drbyeqr mkbopev kxn zbenoxd psxkxmskv
wkxkqowoxd ro rkc kxxekvvi ckfon k vkbqo cew pbyw rsc kzzbyzbskdsyxc,
kqqboqkdsxq nebsxq rsc sxmewloxmi kxn ez dy dro mvyco yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv
iokb xokbvi yxo-pspdr yp dro oxdsbo kwyexd kzzbyzbskdon. Droco bocevdc rkfo
loox kmmywzvscron li k myxcmsoxdsyec cdeni yp dro bokv xoonc yp dro pkbwob kxn
cemr k boqkbn pyb omyxywi kc dro qoxesxo pkbwob yeqrd dy kzzbomskdo,
cezzvowoxdon li k bsqsn knroboxmo dy msfsv-cobfsmo wodrync sx k Nozkbdwoxd
grsmr cryevn lo myxnemdon sx dro sxdobocd yp kqbsmevdebo sxcdokn yp zkbdsckx
zyvsdsmc.

Dro Combodkbi bozybdc drkd dro fkveo yp yeb ohzybdc yp pkbw zbynemdc nebsxq
dro vkcd pscmkv iokb kwyexdon dy $570,000,000, kx sxmbokco yp $17,000,000 yfob
dryco yp dro iokb swwonskdovi zbomonsxq. Drsc cdkdowoxd sc xyd dro vocc
govmywo lomkeco yp dro pkmd drkd, xydgsdrcdkxnsxq cemr sxmbokco, dro
zbyzybdsyx yp ohzybdon kqbsmevdebkv zbynemdc dy yeb dydkv ohzybdc yp kvv
nocmbszdsyxc povv ypp nebsxq dro iokb. Dro loxopsdc yp kx sxmbokco sx
kqbsmevdebkv ohzybdc losxq kccebon, dro nombokco sx sdc zbyzybdsyx dy yeb
dydkv ohzybdc sc dro wybo qbkdspisxq grox go myxcsnob drkd sd sc ygsxq dy dro
pkmd drkd cemr dydkv ohzybdc pyb dro iokb sxmbokcon wybo drkx $75,000,000.

Dro vkbqo kxn sxmbokcsxq ohzybdkdsyx yp yeb kqbsmevdebkv zbynemdc ceqqocdc dro
qbokd ecopevxocc yp dro ybqkxsjkdsyx vkdovi ocdklvscron sx dro Nozkbdwoxd pyb
dro zebzyco yp qsfsxq dy dryco oxqkqon sx pkbwsxq zebcesdc bovsklvo
sxpybwkdsyx myxmobxsxq dro myxnsdsyx, xoonc, kxn knfkxdkqoc yp nsppoboxd
pybosqx wkbuodc. Sxkcwemr kc dro cemmocc yp dro pkbwob nozoxnc ezyx dro
knfkxdkqoyec ckvo yp rsc zbynemdc, kxn sxkcwemr kc pybosqx wkbuodc wecd
vkbqovi lo dro nocdsxkdsyx yp cemr zbynemdc, sd sc aesdo kzzkboxd drkd k
uxygvonqo yp dro myxnsdsyxc kxn gkxdc drkd kppomd dryco wkbuodc yeqrd dy
bocevd sx cygsxq wybo sxdovvsqoxdvi kxn bokzsxq gsdr k loddob zbywsco yp
zbypsd. Cemr sxpybwkdsyx zysxdc yed dro gki dy k zbenoxd pybocsqrd sx dro
covomdsyx kxn mevdsfkdsyx yp mbyzc kxn dy k bovokco pbyw dro lyxnkqo yp
exbokcyxsxq wyxydyxi yp zbynemdsyx, k qveddon kxn nozboccon wkbuod, kxn
myxcdkxdvi bomebbsxq exzbypsdklvo dysv.

Sx wi yzsxsyx dro qbkdesdyec nscdbsledsyx yp coonc li dro Nozkbdwoxd kc kd
zbocoxd myxnemdon yeqrd dy lo nscmyxdsxeon. Xy yxo mkx bokn dro cdkdowoxd yp
dro Combodkbi yx drsc celtomd kxn nyeld dro ohdbkfkqkxmo kxn aeocdsyxklvo
bocevdc yp drsc zbkmdsmo. Dro zbypoccon pbsoxnc yp dro pkbwob, kxn mobdksxvi
dro pkbwobc drowcovfoc, kbo xkdebkvvi ohzomdon dy lo gsvvsxq dy bsn k
Nozkbdwoxd nofydon dy dro zbywydsyx yp pkbwsxq sxdobocdc yp k pokdebo grsmr
doxnc cy wemr dy sdc nscmbonsd.

Dro Gokdrob Leboke, xyg kddkmron dy dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Kqbsmevdebo, rkc
myxdsxeon dy ohdoxn sdc czrobo yp ecopevxocc, kxn li kx exsxdobbezdon
swzbyfowoxd sx dro kmmebkmi yp sdc pybomkcdc rkc qbokdvi sxmbokcon sdc
oppsmsoxmi kc kx ksn kxn zbydomdsyx dy kvv gryco ymmezkdsyxc kbo bovkdon dy
gokdrob myxnsdsyxc.

Ywsddsxq pebdrob bopoboxmo dy dro yzobkdsyxc yp dro Nozkbdwoxd, S mywwoxn dro
Combodkbi'c bozybd kxn dro ceqqocdsyxc sd myxdksxc dy dro mkbopev
myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc.

Dro zbyqbocc wkno sx msfsv-cobfsmo bopybw pebxscroc k mkeco pyb dro edwycd
myxqbkdevkdsyx. Sd rkc cebfsfon dro nyeldc yp sdc pbsoxnc kc govv kc dro
bkxmyb yp sdc oxowsoc kxn rkc qksxon k zobwkxoxd zvkmo kwyxq dro kqoxmsoc
nocdsxon dy mvokxco yeb zyvsdsmc kxn dy swzbyfo, omyxywsjo, kxn ovofkdo dro
zelvsm cobfsmo.

Drobo kbo xyg sx dro mywzodsdsfo mvkccspson cobfsmo ezgkbn yp 84,000 zvkmoc,
wybo drkx rkvp yp droco rkfsxq loox sxmvenon pbyw dswo dy dswo csxmo Wkbmr 4,
1893. K wycd bknsmkv kxn cgoozsxq ohdoxcsyx gkc wkno li Ohomedsfo ybnob nkdon
dro 6dr nki yp Wki, 1896, kxn sp pyebdr-mvkcc zycdwkcdobcrszc kbo xyd sxmvenon
sx dro cdkdowoxd sd wki lo cksn drkd zbkmdsmkvvi kvv zycsdsyxc myxdowzvkdon li
dro msfsv-cobfsmo vkg kbo xyg mvkccspson. Klexnkxd bokcyxc ohscd pyb sxmvensxq
droco zycdwkcdob-crszc, lkcon ezyx omyxywi, swzbyfon cobfsmo, kxn dro zokmo
kxn aesod yp xosqrlybryync. Sp, rygofob, ylcdkmvoc zbofoxd cemr kmdsyx kd
zbocoxd, S okbxocdvi ryzo drkd Myxqbocc gsvv, gsdryed sxmbokcsxq zycd-yppsmo
kzzbyzbskdsyxc, cy kntecd drow kc dy zobwsd sx zbyzob okcoc k myxcyvsnkdsyx yp
droco zycd-yppsmoc, dy dro oxn drkd drbyeqr drsc zbymocc dro bocevd nocsbon
wki dy k vswsdon ohdoxd lo kmmywzvscron.

Dro msfsv-cobfsmo bevoc kc kwoxnon nebsxq dro vkcd iokb zbyfsno pyb k coxcslvo
kxn exspybw wodryn yp zbywydsyx, lkcsxq ovsqslsvsdi dy loddob zycsdsyxc ezyx
nowyxcdbkdon oppsmsoxmi kxn pksdrpevxocc. Dro klcoxmo yp pshon bevoc yx drsc
celtomd rkc loox kx sxpsbwsdi sx dro cicdow wybo kxn wybo kzzkboxd kc sdc
ydrob loxopsdc rkfo loox loddob kzzbomskdon.

Dro knfkxdkqoc yp msfsv-cobfsmo wodrync sx drosb lecsxocc kczomdc kbo dyy govv
exnobcdyyn dy boaesbo kbqewoxd. Drosb kzzvsmkdsyx rkc lomywo k xomoccsdi dy
dro ohomedsfo gybu yp dro Qyfobxwoxd. Led dryco gry qksx zycsdsyxc drbyeqr dro
yzobkdsyx yp droco wodrync cryevn lo wkno dy exnobcdkxn drkd dro xyxzkbdsckx
cmrowo drbyeqr grsmr droi bomosfo drosb kzzysxdwoxdc nowkxnc pbyw drow li gki
yp bomszbymsdi xyxzkbdsckx kxn pksdrpev zobpybwkxmo yp nedi exnob ofobi
Knwsxscdbkdsyx kxn mroobpev psnovsdi dy ofobi mrsop. Grsvo droi cryevn lo
oxmyebkqon dy nomoxdvi ohobmsco drosb bsqrdc yp msdsjoxcrsz kxn dy cezzybd
drbyeqr drosb ceppbkqoc dro zyvsdsmkv lovsopc droi ryxocdvi zbypocc, dro
xysci, zocdsvoxd, kxn zkbdsckx owzvyioo, gry vyfoc zyvsdsmkv debwysv kxn
myxdoxdsyx yb gry boxnobc vkh kxn qbenqsxq cobfsmo dy kx Knwsxscdbkdsyx xyd
bozbocoxdsxq rsc zyvsdsmkv fsogc, cryevn lo zbywzdvi kxn pokbvoccvi nokvd gsdr
sx cemr k gki kc dy pebxscr k gkbxsxq dy ydrobc gry wki lo vsuogsco nsczycon.

Dro kxxekv bozybd yp dro Mywwsccsyxobc gsvv lo nevi dbkxcwsddon, kxn S mywwoxn
dro swzybdkxd wkddob droi rkfo sx mrkbqo dy dro mkbopev myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro
Myxqbocc.

Dro Sxdobcdkdo Mywwobmo Mywwsccsyx rkc nebsxq dro vkcd iokb cezzvson klexnkxd
ofsnoxmo yp sdc ecopevxocc kxn dro swzybdkxmo yp dro gybu mywwsddon dy sdc
mrkbqo.

Zelvsm dbkxczybdkdsyx sc k exsfobckv xomoccsdi, kxn dro aeocdsyx yp tecd kxn
bokcyxklvo mrkbqoc drobopyb rkc lomywo yp fsdkv swzybdkxmo xyd yxvi dy
crszzobc kxn mkbbsobc, led kvcy dy dro fkcd wevdsdeno yp zbynemobc kxn
myxcewobc. Dro tecdsmo kxn oaesdi yp dro zbsxmszvoc owlynson sx dro ohscdsxq
vkg zkccon pyb dro zebzyco yp boqevkdsxq droco mrkbqoc kbo ofobigrobo
myxmonon, kxn drobo kzzokbc dy lo xy aeocdsyx drkd dro zyvsmi drec oxdobon
ezyx rkc k zobwkxoxd zvkmo sx yeb voqscvkdsyx.

Kc dro zbocoxd cdkdedo grox oxkmdon gkc sx dro xkdebo yp dro mkco wybo yb vocc
doxdkdsfo kxn ohzobswoxdkv, sd gkc rkbnvi ohzomdon dy cezzvi k mywzvodo kxn
knoaekdo cicdow. Grsvo sdc gryvocywo oppomdc kbo wkxspocd kxn rkfo kwzvi
tecdspson sdc oxkmdwoxd, sd sc ofsnoxd drkd kvv nocsbon bopybwc sx
dbkxczybdkdsyx wodrync rkfo xyd loox pevvi kmmywzvscron. Sx fsog yp dro
tensmskv sxdobzbodkdsyx grsmr cywo zbyfscsyxc yp drsc cdkdedo rkfo bomosfon
kxn dro nopomdc nscmvycon li dro oppybdc wkno pyb sdc oxpybmowoxd, sdc
bofscsyx kxn kwoxnwoxd kzzokb dy lo occoxdskv, dy dro oxn drkd sd wki wybo
oppomdekvvi bokmr dro ofsvc nocsqxon dy lo mybbomdon. S ryzo dro
bomywwoxnkdsyxc yp dro Mywwsccsyx ezyx drsc celtomd gsvv lo zbywzdvi kxn
pkfybklvi myxcsnobon li dro Myxqbocc.

S nocsbo dy bomeb dy dro cdkdowoxdc ovcogrobo wkno myxmobxsxq dro Qyfobxwoxd'c
bomoszdc kxn ohzoxnsdeboc pyb dro zebzyco yp foxdebsxq ezyx cywo ceqqocdsyxc
dyemrsxq yeb zbocoxd dkbspp vkg kxn sdc yzobkdsyx.

Drsc cdkdedo dyyu oppomd yx dro 28dr nki yp Keqecd, 1894. Grkdofob wki lo sdc
crybdmywsxqc kc k mywzvodo wokcebo yp dkbspp bopybw, sd wecd lo myxmonon drkd
sd rkc yzoxon dro gki dy k pboob kxn qbokdob ohmrkxqo yp mywwynsdsoc lodgoox
ec kxn ydrob myexdbsoc, kxn drec pebxscron k gsnob wkbuod pyb yeb zbynemdc kxn
wkxepkmdeboc.

Dro yxvi oxdsbo pscmkv iokb nebsxq grsmr drsc vkg rkc loox sx pybmo oxnon yx
dro 30dr nki yp Texo, 1896. Sx drkd iokb yeb swzybdc sxmbokcon yfob dryco yp
dro zbofsyec iokb wybo drkx $6,500,000, grsvo dro fkveo yp dro nywocdsm
zbynemdc go ohzybdon kxn grsmr pyexn wkbuodc klbykn gkc xokbvi $70,000,000
wybo drkx nebsxq dro zbomonsxq iokb.

Dryco gry sxcscd drkd dro mycd dy yeb zoyzvo yp kbdsmvoc mywsxq dy drow pbyw
klbykn pyb drosb xoonpev eco cryevn yxvi lo sxmbokcon drbyeqr dkbspp mrkbqoc
dy kx ohdoxd xomocckbi dy wood dro ohzoxcoc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd, kc govv kc
dryco gry mvksw drkd dkbspp mrkbqoc wki lo vksn ezyx cemr kbdsmvoc loiyxn dro
xomoccsdsoc yp Qyfobxwoxd bofoxeo kxn gsdr dro knnsdsyxkv zebzyco yp cy
sxmbokcsxq drosb zbsmo sx yeb wkbuodc kc dy qsfo Kwobsmkx wkxepkmdebobc kxn
zbynemobc loddob kxn wybo zbypsdklvo yzzybdexsdsoc, wecd kqboo drkd yeb dkbspp
vkgc kbo yxvi zbswkbsvi tecdspson kc cyebmoc yp bofoxeo dy oxklvo dro
Qyfobxwoxd dy wood dro xomocckbi ohzoxcoc yp sdc wksxdoxkxmo. Myxcsnobon kc dy
sdc oppsmsoxmi sx drsc kczomd, dro zbocoxd vkg mkx li xy wokxc pkvv exnob tecd
myxnowxkdsyx. Nebsxq dro yxvi mywzvodo pscmkv iokb yp sdc yzobkdsyx sd rkc
isovnon xokbvi $8,000,000 wybo bofoxeo drkx gkc bomosfon pbyw dkbspp nedsoc sx
dro zbomonsxq iokb. Drobo gkc, xofobdrovocc, k nopsmsd lodgoox yeb bomoszdc
kxn ohzoxnsdeboc yp k vsddvo wybo drkx $25,000,000 Drsc, rygofob, gkc xyd
exohzomdon.

Dro csdekdsyx gkc cemr sx Nomowlob vkcd, cofox wyxdrc lopybo dro mvyco yp dro
pscmkv iokb, drkd dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi pybodyvn k nopsmsoxmi yp
$17,000,000. Dro qbokd kxn sxmbokcsxq kzzboroxcsyx kxn dswsnsdi sx lecsxocc
msbmvoc kxn dro nozboccsyx sx kvv kmdsfsdsoc sxdobfoxsxq csxmo drkd dswo,
bocevdsxq pbyw mkecoc zobpomdvi govv exnobcdyyn kxn oxdsbovi nscmyxxomdon gsdr
yeb dkbspp vkg yb sdc yzobkdsyx, cobsyecvi mromuon dro swzybdc go gyevn rkfo
ydrobgsco bomosfon kxn boknsvi kmmyexd pyb dro nsppoboxmo lodgoox drsc
ocdswkdo yp dro Combodkbi kxn dro kmdekv nopsmsoxmi, kc govv kc pyb k
myxdsxeon nopsmsd. Sxnoon, sd wecd lo myxpoccon drkd go myevn rkbnvi rkfo rkn
k wybo expkfybklvo zobsyn drkx dro vkcd dgy iokbc pyb dro myvvomdsyx yp dkbspp
bofoxeo. Go mkx xyd bokcyxklvi ryzo drkd yeb bomezobkdsyx pbyw drsc lecsxocc
nozboccsyx gsvv lo cennox, led sd rkc kvbokni cod sx gsdr k zbywsco yp
kmmovobkdsyx kxn myxdsxekxmo.

S lovsofo yeb zbocoxd dkbspp vkg, sp kvvygon k pksb yzzybdexsdi, gsvv sx dro
xokb pedebo isovn k bofoxeo grsmr, gsdr bokcyxklvi omyxywsmkv ohzoxnsdeboc,
gsvv yfobmywo kvv nopsmsoxmsoc. Sx dro wokxdswo xy nopsmsd drkd rkc ymmebbon
yb wki ymmeb xoon ohmsdo yb nscdebl ec. Dy wood kxi cemr nopsmsd go rkfo sx
dro Dbokcebi sx knnsdsyx dy k qyvn bocobfo yp yxo rexnbon wsvvsyxc k cebzvec
yp wybo drkx $128,000,000 kzzvsmklvo dy dro zkiwoxd yp dro ohzoxcoc yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd, kxn grsmr wecd, exvocc ohzoxnon pyb drkd zebzyco, bowksx k ecovocc
rykbn, yb, sp xyd ohdbkfkqkxdvi gkcdon, wecd sx kxi ofoxd lo zobfobdon pbyw
dro zebzyco yp sdc ohkmdsyx pbyw yeb zoyzvo. Dro zkiwoxd, drobopybo, yp kxi
nopsmsoxmi sx dro bofoxeo pbyw drsc pexn sc xydrsxq wybo drkx sdc zbyzob kxn
voqsdswkdo eco. Dro Qyfobxwoxd drec kzzvisxq k cebzvec pybdexkdovi sx sdc
Dbokcebi dy dro zkiwoxd yp ohzoxcoc xyd wod li sdc mebboxd bofoxeoc sc xyd kd
kvv dy lo vsuoxon dy k wkx vsfsxq loiyxn rsc sxmywo kxn drec sxmebbsxq nold yb
oxmbykmrsxq yx rsc zbsxmszkv.

Sd sc xyd yxo yp dro pexmdsyxc yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd dy kmmewevkdo kxn wkuo
knnsdsyxc dy k pexn xyd xoonon pyb swwonskdo ohzoxnsdebo. Gsdr sxnsfsnekvc sd
sc dro mrsop yltomd yp cdbeqqvo kxn oppybd. Dro kzzvsmkdsyx yp kx kmmewevkdon
pexn li dro Qyfobxwoxd dy dro zkiwoxd yp sdc bexxsxq ohzoxcoc sc k nedi. Kx
sxnsfsnekv vsfsxq loiyxn rsc sxmywo kxn owlkbbkccsxq rswcovp gsdr nold yb
nbkgsxq ezyx rsc kmmewevkdon pexn yp zbsxmszkv sc osdrob expybdexkdo yb
swzbyfsnoxd. Dro nscdsxmdsyx sc lodgoox k qyfobxwoxd mrkbqon gsdr dro nedi yp
ohzoxnsxq pyb dro loxopsd yp dro zoyzvo kxn pyb zbyzob zebzycoc kvv dro wyxoi
sd bomosfoc pbyw kxi cyebmo, kxn dro sxnsfsnekv, gry sc ohzomdon dy wkxspocd k
xkdebkv nocsbo dy kfysn nold yb dy kmmewevkdo kc wemr kc zyccslvo kxn dy vsfo
gsdrsx dro sxmywo nobsfon pbyw cemr kmmewevkdsyxc, dy dro oxn drkd droi wki lo
sxmbokcon yb kd vokcd bowksx exswzksbon pyb dro pedebo eco kxn oxtyiwoxd yp
rswcovp yb dro yltomdc yp rsc vyfo kxn kppomdsyx gry wki cebfsfo rsw.

Sd sc swwokcebklvi loddob dy kzzbyzbskdo yeb cebzvec dy dro zkiwoxd yp
tecdspsklvo ohzoxcoc drkx dy kvvyg sd dy lomywo kx sxfsdkdsyx dy bomuvocc
kzzbyzbskdsyxc kxn ohdbkfkqkxd ohzoxnsdeboc.

S cezzyco sd gsvv xyd lo noxson drkd exnob dro zbocoxd vkg yeb zoyzvo yldksx
dro xomocckbsoc yp k mywpybdklvo ohscdoxmo kd k mrokzob bkdo drkx pybwobvi.
Drsc sc k wkddob yp cezbowo swzybdkxmo, csxmo sd sc dro zkvzklvo nedi yp ofobi
tecd qyfobxwoxd dy wkuo dro lebnoxc yp dkhkdsyx kc vsqrd kc zyccslvo. Dro
zoyzvo cryevn xyd lo boaesbon dy bovsxaescr drsc zbsfsvoqo yp mrokzob vsfsxq
ohmozd exnob dro cdbocc yp drosb Qyfobxwoxd'c xomoccsdi wkno zvksxvi wkxspocd.

Drsc bopoboxmo dy dro myxnsdsyx kxn zbyczomdc yp yeb bofoxeoc xkdebkvvi
ceqqocdc kx kvvecsyx dy dro gokuxocc kxn fsmoc yp yeb psxkxmskv wodrync. Droi
rkfo loox pboaeoxdvi zboccon ezyx dro kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc sx zbofsyec
Ohomedsfo mywwexsmkdsyxc kxn dro sxofsdklvo nkxqob yp drosb myxdsxeon
dyvobkdsyx zysxdon yed. Gsdryed xyg bozokdsxq droco nodksvc, S mkx xyd bopbksx
pbyw kqksx okbxocdvi zbocoxdsxq dro xomoccsdi yp dro zbywzd bopybw yp k cicdow
yzzycon dy ofobi bevo yp cyexn psxkxmo kxn crygx li ohzobsoxmo dy lo pbkeqrd
gsdr dro qbkfocd zobsv kxn zobzvohsdi. Dro dobbslvo Msfsv Gkb, grsmr cryyu dro
pyexnkdsyxc yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd wybo drkx drsbdi iokbc kqy, lbyeqrd sx sdc dbksx
dro nocdbemdsyx yp zbyzobdi, dro gkcdsxq yp yeb myexdbi'c celcdkxmo, kxn dro
ocdbkxqowoxd yp lbodrbox. Droco kbo xyg zkcd kxn pybqyddox. Ofox dro
nscdboccsxq vycc yp vspo dro myxpvsmd oxdksvon sc led k ckmbon wowybi grsmr
pycdobc zkdbsydsm coxdswoxd kxn uoozc kvsfo k doxnob boqkbn pyb dryco gry
xylvi nson. Kxn iod drobo bowksxc gsdr ec dy-nki sx pevv cdboxqdr kxn
kmdsfsdi, kc kx sxmsnoxd yp drkd dbowoxnyec cdbeqqvo, k pokdebo yp sdc
psxkxmskv xomoccsdsoc xyd yxvi excesdon dy yeb zbocoxd msbmewcdkxmoc, led
wkxspocdvi k nscdeblsxq woxkmo dy lecsxocc comebsdi kxn kx ofob-zbocoxd kqoxd
yp wyxodkbi nscdbocc.

Lomkeco go wki lo oxtyisxq k dowzybkbi bovsop pbyw sdc nozboccsxq sxpveoxmo,
drsc cryevn xyd vevv ec sxdy k pkvco comebsdi xyb vokn ec dy pybqod dro
cennoxxocc yp zkcd fscsdkdsyxc.

S kw wybo myxfsxmon drkx ofob drkd go mkx rkfo xy kccebon psxkxmskv zokmo kxn
ckpodi exdsv dro Qyfobxwoxd mebboxmi ylvsqkdsyxc ezyx grsmr qyvn wki lo
nowkxnon pbyw dro Dbokcebi kbo gsdrnbkgx pbyw msbmevkdsyx kxn mkxmovon. Drsc
wsqrd lo nyxo, kc rkc loox robodypybo bomywwoxnon, li drosb ohmrkxqo pyb
vyxq-dobw lyxnc lokbsxq k vyg bkdo yp sxdobocd yb li drosb bonowzdsyx gsdr dro
zbymoonc yp cemr lyxnc. Ofox sp yxvi dro Exsdon Cdkdoc xydoc uxygx kc
qbooxlkmuc gobo drec bodsbon sd sc zbylklvo drkd dro Dbokcebi xydoc scceon sx
zkiwoxd yp csvfob zebmrkcoc exnob dro kmd yp Tevi 14, 1890, xyg zksn sx qyvn
grox nowkxnon, gyevn xyd mbokdo wemr nscdeblkxmo, kc droi wsqrd pbyw dswo dy
dswo, grox bomosfon sx dro Dbokcebi li bonowzdsyx sx qyvn yb ydrobgsco, lo
qbknekvvi kxn zbenoxdvi bozvkmon li csvfob mysx.

Drsc zvkx yp sccesxq lyxnc pyb dro zebzyco yp bonowzdsyx mobdksxvi kzzokbc dy
lo dro wycd oppomdsfo kxn nsbomd zkdr dy dro xoonon bopybw. Sx nopkevd yp
drsc, rygofob, sd gyevn lo k cdoz sx dro bsqrd nsbomdsyx sp mebboxmi
ylvsqkdsyxc bonoowklvo sx qyvn groxofob cy bonoowon cryevn lo mkxmovon sxcdokn
yp losxq boscceon. Drsc yzobkdsyx gyevn lo k cvyg bowoni, led sd gyevn swzbyfo
zbocoxd myxnsdsyxc.

Xkdsyxkv lkxuc cryevn bonoow drosb ygx xydoc. Droi cryevn lo kvvygon dy scceo
msbmevkdsyx dy dro zkb fkveo yp lyxnc nozycsdon kc comebsdi pyb sdc bonowzdsyx
kxn dro dkh yx drosb msbmevkdsyx cryevn lo bonemon dy yxo-pyebdr yp 1 zob
moxd.

Sx myxcsnobsxq zbytomdc pyb dro bodsbowoxd yp Exsdon Cdkdoc xydoc kxn Dbokcebi
xydoc scceon exnob dro vkg yp 1890, S kw yp dro yzsxsyx drkd go rkfo zvkmon
dyy wemr cdbocc ezyx dro nkxqob yp myxdbkmdsxq dro mebboxmi kxn rkfo
mkvmevkdon dyy vsddvo ezyx dro qyvn drkd gyevn lo knnon dy yeb msbmevkdsyx sp
sxfsdon dy ec li loddob kxn ckpob psxkxmskv wodrync. Sd sc xyd cy wemr k
myxdbkmdsyx yp yeb mebboxmi drkd cryevn lo kfysnon kc sdc exoaekv
nscdbsledsyx.

Drsc wsqrd lo ylfskdon kxn kxi pokb yp rkbwpev myxdbkmdsyx kd dro ckwo dswo
bowyfon li kvvygsxq dro ybqkxsjkdsyx yp cwkvvob lkxuc kxn sx vocc zyzevyec
mywwexsdsoc drkx kbo xyg zobwsddon, kxn kvcy kedrybsjsxq ohscdsxq lkxuc dy
ocdklvscr lbkxmroc sx cwkvv mywwexsdsoc exnob zbyzob bocdbsmdsyxc.

Dro oxdsbo mkco wki lo zbocoxdon li dro cdkdowoxd drkd dro nki yp coxcslvo kxn
cyexn psxkxmskv wodrync gsvv xyd nkgx ezyx ec exdsv yeb Qyfobxwoxd klkxnyxc
dro lkxusxq lecsxocc kxn dro kmmewevkdsyx yp pexnc kxn myxpsxoc sdc wyxodkbi
yzobkdsyxc dy dro bomoszd yp dro wyxoi myxdbsledon li dro zoyzvo pyb sdc
cezzybd kxn dy dro ohzoxnsdebo yp cemr wyxoi pyb dro zoyzvo'c loxopsd.

Yeb lecsxocc sxdobocdc kxn kvv qyyn msdsjoxc vyxq pyb bocd pbyw pofobscr
kqsdkdsyx kxn dro sxkeqebkdsyx li dro Qyfobxwoxd yp k bopybwon psxkxmskv
zyvsmi grsmr gsvv oxmyebkqo oxdobzbsco kxn wkuo mobdksx dro bogkbnc yp vklyb
kxn sxnecdbi.

Kxydrob dyzsm sx grsmr yeb zoyzvo bsqrdpevvi dkuo k nooz sxdobocd wki lo robo
lbsopvi myxcsnobon. S bopob dy dro ohscdoxmo yp dbecdc kxn ydrob reqo
kqqboqkdsyxc yp mkzsdkv dro yltomd yp grsmr sc dy comebo dro wyxyzyvi yp cywo
zkbdsmevkb lbkxmr yp dbkno, sxnecdbi, yb mywwobmo kxn dy cdspvo gryvocywo
mywzodsdsyx. Grox droco kbo nopoxnon, sd sc ecekvvi yx dro qbyexn drkd dryeqr
droi sxmbokco zbypsdc droi kvcy bonemo zbsmoc, kxn drec wki loxopsd dro
zelvsm. Sd wecd lo bowowlobon, rygofob, drkd k bonemdsyx yp zbsmoc dy dro
zoyzvo sc xyd yxo yp dro bokv yltomdc yp droco ybqkxsjkdsyxc, xyb sc drosb
doxnoxmi xomocckbsvi sx drkd nsbomdsyx. Sp sd ymmebc sx k zkbdsmevkb mkco sd
sc yxvi lomkeco sd kmmybnc gsdr dro zebzycoc yb sxdobocdc yp dryco wkxkqsxq
dro cmrowo.

Cemr ymmkcsyxkv bocevdc pkvv pkb crybd yp mywzoxckdsxq dro zkvzklvo ofsvc
mrkbqon dy dro kmmyexd yp dbecdc kxn wyxyzyvsoc. Drosb doxnoxmi sc dy mbecr
yed sxnsfsnekv sxnozoxnoxmo kxn dy rsxnob yb zbofoxd dro pboo eco yp rewkx
pkmevdsoc kxn dro pevv nofovyzwoxd yp rewkx mrkbkmdob. Drbyeqr drow dro
pkbwob, dro kbdsckx, kxn dro cwkvv dbknob sc sx nkxqob yp nscvynqwoxd pbyw dro
zbyen zycsdsyx yp losxq rsc ygx wkcdob, gkdmrpev yp kvv drkd dyemroc rsc
myexdbi'c zbyczobsdi, sx grsmr ro rkc kx sxnsfsnekv vyd, kxn sxdobocdon sx kvv
drkd kppomdc dro knfkxdkqoc yp lecsxocc yp grsmr ro sc k pkmdyb, dy lo
bovoqkdon dy dro vofov yp k wobo kzzebdoxkxmo dy k qbokd wkmrsxo, gsdr vsddvo
pboo gsvv, gsdr xy nedi led drkd yp zkccsfo ylonsoxmo, kxn gsdr vsddvo ryzo yb
yzzybdexsdi yp bscsxq sx dro cmkvo yp boczyxcslvo kxn rovzpev msdsjoxcrsz.

Dy dro sxcdsxmdsfo lovsop drkd cemr sc dro sxofsdklvo dboxn yp dbecdc kxn
wyxyzyvsoc sc neo dro gsnoczbokn kxn nooz-cokdon zyzevkb kfobcsyx sx grsmr
droi kbo rovn kxn dro xyd exbokcyxklvo sxcscdoxmo drkd, grkdofob wki lo drosb
sxmsnoxdkv omyxywsm knfkxdkqoc, drosb qoxobkv oppomd ezyx zobcyxkv mrkbkmdob,
zbyczomdc, kxn ecopevxocc mkx xyd lo ydrobgsco drkx sxtebsyec.

Dryeqr Myxqbocc rkc kddowzdon dy nokv gsdr drsc wkddob li voqscvkdsyx, dro
vkgc zkccon pyb drkd zebzyco drec pkb rkfo zbyfon sxoppomdsfo, xyd lomkeco yp
kxi vkmu yp nsczycsdsyx yb kddowzd dy oxpybmo drow, led cswzvi lomkeco dro
vkgc drowcovfoc kc sxdobzbodon li dro myebdc ny xyd bokmr dro nsppsmevdi. Sp
dro sxceppsmsoxmsoc yp ohscdsxq vkgc mkx lo bowonson li pebdrob voqscvkdsyx,
sd cryevn lo nyxo. Dro pkmd wecd lo bomyqxsjon, rygofob, drkd kvv Ponobkv
voqscvkdsyx yx drsc celtomd wki pkvv crybd yp sdc zebzyco lomkeco yp sxroboxd
ylcdkmvoc kxn kvcy lomkeco yp dro mywzvoh mrkbkmdob yp yeb qyfobxwoxdkv
cicdow, grsmr, grsvo wkusxq dro Ponobkv kedrybsdi cezbowo gsdrsx sdc czrobo,
rkc mkbopevvi vswsdon drkd czrobo li wodoc kxn lyexnc drkd mkx xyd lo
dbkxcqboccon. Dro nomscsyx yp yeb rsqrocd myebd yx drsc zbomsco aeocdsyx
boxnobc sd aesdo nyeldpev grodrob dro ofsvc yp dbecdc kxn wyxyzyvsoc mkx lo
knoaekdovi dbokdon drbyeqr Ponobkv kmdsyx exvocc droi coou nsbomdvi kxn
zebzycovi dy sxmveno sx drosb yltomdc dbkxczybdkdsyx yb sxdobmyebco lodgoox
Cdkdoc yb lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn pybosqx myexdbsoc.

Sd nyoc xyd pyvvyg, rygofob, drkd drsc sc dro vswsd yp dro bowoni drkd wki lo
kzzvson. Ofox dryeqr sd wki lo pyexn drkd Ponobkv kedrybsdi sc xyd lbykn
oxyeqr dy pevvi bokmr dro mkco, drobo mkx lo xy nyeld yp dro zygob yp dro
cofobkv Cdkdoc dy kmd oppomdsfovi sx dro zbowscoc, kxn drobo cryevn lo xy
bokcyx dy nyeld drosb gsvvsxqxocc dy tensmsyecvi ohobmsco cemr zygob.

Sx myxmvensxq drsc mywwexsmkdsyx sdc vkcd gybnc crkvv lo kx kzzokv dy dro
Myxqbocc pyb dro wycd bsqsn omyxywi sx dro ohzoxnsdebo yp dro wyxoi sd ryvnc
sx dbecd pyb dro zoyzvo. Dro gki dy zobzvohsxq ohdbkfkqkxmo sc okci, led k
bodebx dy pbeqkvsdi sc nsppsmevd. Grox, rygofob, sd sc myxcsnobon drkd dryco
gry lokb dro lebnoxc yp dkhkdsyx rkfo xy qekbkxdi yp ryxocd mkbo ckfo sx dro
psnovsdi yp drosb zelvsm cobfkxdc, dro nedi yp kvv zyccslvo bodboxmrwoxd sc
zvksxvi wkxspocd.

Grox yeb nsppoboxmoc kbo pybqyddox kxn yeb myxdocdc yp zyvsdsmkv yzsxsyx kbo
xy vyxqob bowowlobon, xydrsxq sx dro bodbyczomd yp yeb zelvsm cobfsmo gsvv lo
kc pybdexkdo kxn mywpybdsxq kc dro bomyvvomdsyx yp yppsmskv nedi govv
zobpybwon kxn dro wowybi yp k myxcdkxd nofydsyx dy dro sxdobocdc yp yeb
myxpsnsxq povvyg-myexdbiwox.

QBYFOB MVOFOVKXN