Hc hvs Qcbufsgg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg:

Wb rwgqvofus ct o qcbghwhihwcboz rihm, obr tczzckwbu o kszz-sghopzwgvsr
dfsqsrsbh wb hvs Slsqihwjs cttwqs, W vsfskwhv hfobgawh hc hvs Qcbufsgg oh
whg fsoggsapzwbu qsfhowb wbtcfaohwcb qcbqsfbwbu hvs ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb,
hcushvsf kwhv giqv fsqcaasbrohwcbg tcf zsuwgzohwjs qcbgwrsfohwcb og oddsof
bsqsggofm obr sldsrwsbh.

Cif Ucjsfbasbh vog qcbgwghsbhzm aowbhowbsr whg fszohwcbg ct tfwsbrgvwd
hckofr ozz chvsf dcksfg obr ct bswuvpcfzm wbhsfsgh hckofr hvcgs kvcgs
dcggsggwcbg ofs qcbhwuicig hc cif ckb. Tsk eisghwcbg vojs ofwgsb rifwbu hvs
dogh msof kwhv chvsf ucjsfbasbhg, obr bcbs ct hvcgs ofs psmcbr hvs fsoqv ct
gshhzsasbh wb tfwsbrzm qcibgsz.

Ks ofs og msh kwhvcih dfcjwgwcb tcf hvs gshhzsasbh ct qzowag ct qwhwnsbg ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ouowbgh Qvwzs tcf wbxighwqs rifwbu hvs zohs kof kwhv Dsfi
obr Pczwjwo. Hvs awlsr qcaawggwcbg cfuobwnsr ibrsf qzowag qcbjsbhwcbg
qcbqzirsr pm hvs Qvwzsob Ucjsfbasbh kwhv qsfhowb Sifcdsob Ghohsg vojs
rsjszcdsr ob oacibh ct tfwqhwcb kvwqv ks hfigh qob ps ojcwrsr wb hvs
qcbjsbhwcb kvwqv cif fsdfsgsbhohwjs oh Gobhwouc wg oihvcfwnsr hc
bsuchwohs.

Hvs qfisz hfsohasbh ct wbcttsbgwjs Qvwbsgs vog, W fsufsh hc gom, pssb
fsdsohsr wb gcas ct hvs tof Ksghsfb Ghohsg obr Hsffwhcfwsg, obr oqhg ct
jwczsbqs ouowbgh hvcgs dscdzs, psmcbr hvs dcksf ct hvs zcqoz qcbghwhihsr
oihvcfwhwsg hc dfsjsbh obr rwttwqizh hc dibwgv, ofs fsdcfhsr sjsb wb
rwghobh Ozogyo. Aiqv ct hvwg jwczsbqs qob ps hfoqsr hc foqs dfsxirwqs obr
qcadshwhwcb ct zopcf, kvwqv qob bch, vcksjsf, xighwtm hvs cddfsggwcb ct
ghfobusfg kvcgs gotshm wg uiofobhssr pm cif hfsohm kwhv Qvwbo seiozzm kwhv
hvs acgh tojcfsr bohwcbg.

Wb cdsbwbu cif jogh rcaowb hc ozwsb szsasbhg hvs difdcgs ct cif zokuwjsfg
kog hc wbjwhs oggwawzohwcb, obr bch hc dfcjwrs ob ofsbo tcf sbrzsgg
obhoucbwga. Hvs dofoacibh rihm ct aowbhowbwbu dipzwq cfrsf obr rstsbrwbu
hvs wbhsfsghg ct cif ckb dscdzs aom fseiwfs hvs orcdhwcb ct asogifsg ct
fsghfwqhwcb, pih hvsm gvcizr bch hczsfohs hvs cddfsggwcb ct wbrwjwriozg ct
o gdsqwoz foqs. W oa bch kwhvcih oggifobqs hvoh hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Qvwbo,
kvcgs tfwsbrzm rwgdcgwhwcb hckofr ig W oa acgh voddm hc fsqcubwns, kwzz
assh ig voztkom wb rsjwgwbu o qcadfsvsbgwjs fsasrm pm kvwqv ob sttsqhwjs
zwawhohwcb ct Qvwbsgs sawufohwcb, xcwbsr hc dfchsqhwcb ct hvcgs Qvwbsgs
gipxsqhg kvc fsaowb wb hvwg qcibhfm, aom ps gsqifsr.

Zsuwgzohwcb wg bssrsr hc slsqihs hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct cif Qvwbsgs qcbjsbhwcb
ct 1880 hciqvwbu hvs cdwia hfottwq.

Kvwzs hvs uccr kwzz ct hvs Qczcapwob Ucjsfbasbh hckofr cif qcibhfm wg
aobwtsgh, hvs gwhiohwcb ct Oasfwqob wbhsfsghg cb hvs Wghvaig ct Doboao vog
oh hwasg slqwhsr qcbqsfb obr wbjwhsr tfwsbrzm oqhwcb zccywbu hc hvs
dsftcfaobqs ct hvs sbuousasbhg ct hvs hkc bohwcbg qcbqsfbwbu hvs hsffwhcfm
sapfoqsr wb hvs wbhsfcqsobwq hfobgwh. Kwhv hvs gipgwrsbqs ct hvs Wghvawob
rwghifpobqsg obr hvs sfsqhwcb ct hvs Ghohs ct Doboao wbhc o tsrsfoz
rwghfwqh ibrsf hvs rwfsqh ucjsfbasbh ct hvs qcbghwhihwcboz orawbwghfohwcb
oh Pcucho, o bsk cfrsf ct hvwbug vog pssb wboiuifohsr, kvwqv, ozhvciuv og
msh gcaskvoh sldsfwasbhoz obr ottcfrwbu gqcds tcf ofpwhfofm slsfqwgs ct
dcksf pm hvs rszsuohsg ct hvs bohwcboz oihvcfwhm, dfcawgsg aiqv
wadfcjsasbh.

Hvs gmadohvm pshkssb hvs dscdzs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr Tfobqs, pcfb
rifwbu cif qczcbwoz ghfiuuzs tcf wbrsdsbrsbqs obr qcbhwbiwbu hcrom, vog
fsqswjsr o tfsgv wadizgs wb hvs giqqsggtiz qcadzshwcb obr rsrwqohwcb ct hvs
qczcggoz ghohis ct "Zwpsfhm Sbzwuvhsbwbu hvs Kcfzr" wb Bsk Mcfy Vofpcf--hvs
uwth ct Tfsbqvasb hc Oasfwqobg.

O qcbjsbhwcb pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr qsfhowb chvsf dcksfg tcf hvs
dfchsqhwcb ct gipaofwbs qopzsg kog gwubsr oh Dofwg cb Aofqv 14, 1884, obr
vog pssb rizm fohwtwsr obr dfcqzowasr pm hvwg Ucjsfbasbh. Pm oufssasbh
pshkssb hvs vwuv qcbhfoqhwbu dofhwsg hvwg qcbjsbhwcb wg hc uc wbhc sttsqh
cb hvs 1gh ct Xobiofm bslh, pih hvs zsuwgzohwcb fseiwfsr tcf whg slsqihwcb
wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog bch msh pssb orcdhsr. W sofbsghzm fsqcaasbr whg
sboqhasbh.

Qogsg vojs qcbhwbisr hc cqqif wb Usfaobm uwjwbu fwgs hc aiqv qcffsgdcbrsbqs
wb fszohwcb hc hvs dfwjwzsus ct gcxcifb ct cif bohifozwnsr qwhwnsbg ct
Usfaob cfwuwb fsjwgwhwbu hvs zobr ct hvswf pwfhv, msh W oa voddm hc ghohs
hvoh cif fszohwcbg kwhv hvoh qcibhfm vojs zcgh bcbs ct hvswf oqqighcasr
qcfrwozwhm.

Hvs qzowag tcf wbhsfsgh idcb hvs oacibh ct hcbbous risg wzzsuozzm sloqhsr
tfca qsfhowb Usfaob ghsoagvwd zwbsg ksfs tojcfopzm fsdcfhsr wb pchv Vcigsg
ct Qcbufsgg oh hvs zogh gsggwcb, obr W hfigh kwzz fsqswjs twboz obr
tojcfopzs oqhwcb oh ob sofzm rom.

Hvs fsqcaasbrohwcbg qcbhowbsr wb am zogh obbioz asggous wb fszohwcb hc o
acrs ct gshhzsasbh ct hvs twgvsfm fwuvhg wb hvs kohsfg ct Pfwhwgv Bcfhv
Oasfwqo, gc zcbu o gipxsqh ct oblwcig rwttsfsbqs pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
obr Ufsoh Pfwhowb, kog ash pm ob orjsfgs jchs ct hvs Gsbohs cb Odfwz 13
zogh, obr hvsfsidcb bsuchwohwcbg ksfs wbghwhihsr hc cphowb ob oufssasbh
kwhv Vsf Pfwhobbwq Aoxsghm'g Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs dfcaizuohwcb ct giqv xcwbh
wbhsfdfshohwcb obr rstwbwhwcb ct hvs ofhwqzs ct hvs qcbjsbhwcb ct 1818
fszohwbu hc hvs hsffwhcfwoz kohsfg obr wbgvcfs twgvsfwsg ct hvs Pfwhwgv
Dfcjwbqsg og gvcizr gsqifs hvs Qoborwob fwuvhg tfca sbqfcoqvasbh pm hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg twgvsfasb obr oh hvs goas hwas wbgifs hvs sbxcmasbh pm hvs
zohhsf ct hvs dfwjwzsusg uiofobhssr hc hvsa pm giqv qcbjsbhwcb.

Hvs eisghwcbg wbjczjsr ofs ct zcbu ghobrwbu, ct ufojs qcbgseisbqs, obr tfca
hwas hc hwas tcf bsofzm hvfss-eiofhsfg ct o qsbhifm vojs uwjsb fwgs hc
sofbsgh wbhsfbohwcboz rwgqiggwcbg, bch iboqqcadobwsr pm wffwhohwcb.

Hsadcfofm offobusasbhg pm hfsohwsg vojs gsfjsr hc ozzom tfwqhwcb, kvwqv,
vcksjsf, vog fsjwjsr og soqv hfsohm kog hsfawbohsr. Hvs zogh offobusasbh,
ibrsf hvs hfsohm ct 1871, kog opfcuohsr othsf ris bchwqs pm hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg cb Xibs 30, 1885, pih W kog sbopzsr hc cphowb tcf cif twgvsfasb tcf
hvs fsaowbrsf ct hvoh gsogcb sbxcmasbh ct hvs tizz dfwjwzsusg oqqcfrsr pm
hvs hsfawbohsr hfsohm.

Hvs xcwbh vwuv qcaawggwcb pm kvca hvs hfsohm vor pssb bsuchwohsr, ozhvciuv
wbjsghsr kwhv dzsbofm dcksf hc aoys o dsfaobsbh gshhzsasbh, ksfs qcbhsbh
kwhv o hsadcfofm offobusasbh, othsf hvs hsfawbohwcb ct kvwqv hvs eisghwcb
kog fszsuohsr hc hvs ghwdizohwcbg ct hvs hfsohm ct 1818, og hc hvs twfgh
ofhwqzs ct kvwqv bc qcbghfiqhwcb gohwgtoqhcfm hc pchv qcibhfwsg vog sjsf
pssb oufssr idcb.

Hvs dfcufsgg ct qwjwzwnohwcb obr ufckhv ct dcdizohwcb wb hvs Pfwhwgv
Dfcjwbqsg hc kvwqv hvs twgvsfwsg wb eisghwcb ofs qcbhwuicig obr hvs
sldobgwcb ct qcaasfqwoz wbhsfqcifgs pshkssb hvsa obr hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
dfsgsbh hc-rom o qcbrwhwcb ct ottowfg gqofqszm fsozwnopzs oh hvs rohs ct
hvs bsuchwohwcbg ct 1818.

Bsk obr jogh wbhsfsghg vojs pssb pfciuvh wbhc slwghsbqs; acrsg ct
wbhsfqcifgs pshkssb hvs fsgdsqhwjs qcibhfwsg vojs pssb wbjsbhsr obr
aizhwdzwsr; hvs ashvcrg ct qcbriqhwbu hvs twgvsfwsg vojs pssb kvczzm
qvobusr; obr ozz hvwg wg bsqsggofwzm sbhwhzsr hc qobrwr obr qofstiz
qcbgwrsfohwcb wb hvs orxighasbh ct hvs hsfag obr qcbrwhwcbg ct wbhsfqcifgs
obr qcaasfqs pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr hvswf bswuvpcfg ozcbu o tfcbhwsf
ct cjsf 3,500 awzsg.

Hvwg dfcdwbeiwhm, qcaaibwhm ct zobuious obr cqqidohwcb, obr gwawzofwhm ct
dczwhwqoz obr gcqwoz wbghwhihwcbg wbrwqohs hvs dfoqhwqopwzwhm obr cpjwcig
kwgrca ct aowbhowbwbu aihiozzm psbstwqwoz obr tfwsbrzm fszohwcbg.

Kvwzgh W oa ibtswubsrzm rsgwfcig hvoh giqv fszohwcbg gvcizr slwgh pshkssb
ig obr hvs wbvopwhobhg ct Qoboro, msh hvs oqhwcb ct hvswf cttwqwozg rifwbu
hvs dogh gsogcb hckofr cif twgvsfasb vog pssb giqv og hc gsfwcigzm hvfsohsb
hvswf qcbhwbiobqs.

Ozhvciuv rwgoddcwbhsr wb am sttcfhg hc gsqifs o gohwgtoqhcfm gshhzsasbh ct
hvs twgvsfm eisghwcb, bsuchwohwcbg ofs ghwzz dsbrwbu, kwhv fsogcbopzs vcds
hvoh pstcfs hvs qzcgs ct hvs dfsgsbh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg obbcibqsasbh aom
ps aors hvoh ob oqqsdhopzs qcbqzigwcb vog pssb fsoqvsr.

Og oh ob sofzm rom hvsfs aom ps zowr pstcfs Qcbufsgg hvs qcffsgdcbrsbqs ct
hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs wb fszohwcb hc hvwg wadcfhobh gipxsqh, gc hvoh hvs
vwghcfm ct hvs dogh twgvwbu gsogcb aom ps tizzm rwgqzcgsr obr hvs oqhwcb
obr hvs ohhwhirs ct hvs Orawbwghfohwcb qzsofzm qcadfsvsbrsr, o acfs
slhsbrsr fstsfsbqs wg bch rssasr bsqsggofm wb hvwg qcaaibwqohwcb.

Hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb gipawhhsr zogh msof hvoh dfcjwgwcb ps aors tcf o
dfszwawbofm fsqcbbcwggobqs ct hvs qcbjsbhwcboz pcibrofm zwbs pshkssb Ozogyo
obr Pfwhwgv Qcziapwo wg fsbsksr.

W sldfsgg am ibvsgwhohwbu qcbjwqhwcb hvoh hvs wbhwaoqm ct cif fszohwcbg
kwhv Vokoww gvcizr ps sadvogwnsr. Og o fsgizh ct hvs fsqwdfcqwhm hfsohm ct
1875, hvcgs wgzobrg, cb hvs vwuvkom ct Cfwsbhoz obr Oighfozogwob hfottwq,
ofs jwfhiozzm ob cihdcgh ct Oasfwqob qcaasfqs obr o ghsddwbu-ghcbs hc hvs
ufckwbu hfors ct hvs Doqwtwq. Hvs Dczmbsgwob Wgzobr ufcidg vojs pssb gc
opgcfpsr pm chvsf obr acfs dcksftiz ucjsfbasbhg hvoh hvs Vokowwob Wgzobrg
ofs zsth ozacgh ozcbs wb hvs sbxcmasbh ct hvswf oihcbcam, kvwqv wh wg
wadcfhobh tcf ig gvcizr ps dfsgsfjsr. Cif hfsohm wg bck hsfawbopzs cb cbs
msof'g bchwqs, pih dfcdcgwhwcbg hc opfcuohs wh kcizr ps, wb am xiruasbh,
acgh wzz orjwgsr. Hvs dofoacibh wbtzisbqs ks vojs hvsfs oqeiwfsr, cbqs
fszwbeiwgvsr, qcizr cbzm kwhv rwttwqizhm ps fsuowbsr, obr o joziopzs ufcibr
ct jobhous tcf cifgszjsg awuvh ps qcbjsfhsr wbhc o ghfcbuvczr tcf cif
qcaasfqwoz qcadshwhcfg. W sofbsghzm fsqcaasbr hvoh hvs slwghwbu hfsohm
ghwdizohwcbg ps slhsbrsr tcf o tifhvsf hsfa ct gsjsb msofg. O fsqsbhzm
gwubsr hfsohm hc hvwg sbr wg bck pstcfs hvs Gsbohs.

Hvs wadcfhobqs ct hszsufodvwq qcaaibwqohwcb pshkssb hvcgs wgzobrg obr hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg gvcizr bch ps cjsfzccysr.

Hvs eisghwcb ct o usbsfoz fsjwgwcb ct hvs hfsohwsg ct Xodob wg ouowb ibrsf
rwgqiggwcb oh Hcymc. Og hvs twfgh hc cdsb fszohwcbg kwhv hvoh Sadwfs, obr
og hvs bohwcb wb acgh rwfsqh qcaasfqwoz fszohwcbg kwhv Xodob, hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg vojs zcgh bc cddcfhibwhm hc hsghwtm hvswf qcbgwghsbh tfwsbrgvwd pm
giddcfhwbu hvs xigh qzowag ct Xodob hc oihcbcam obr wbrsdsbrsbqs oacbu
bohwcbg.

O hfsohm ct slhforwhwcb pshkssb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr Xodob, hvs twfgh
qcbqzirsr pm hvoh Sadwfs, vog pssb zohszm dfcqzowasr.

Hvs ksoybsgg ct Zwpsfwo obr hvs rwttwqizhm ct aowbhowbwbu sttsqhwjs
gcjsfswubhm cjsf whg cihzmwbu rwghfwqhg vojs sldcgsr hvoh Fsdipzwq hc
sbqfcoqvasbh. Wh qob bch ps tcfuchhsb hvoh hvwg rwghobh qcaaibwhm wg ob
cttgvcch ct cif ckb gmghsa, ckwbu whg cfwuwb hc hvs oggcqwohsr psbsjczsbqs
ct Oasfwqob qwhwnsbg, kvcgs dfowgskcfhvm sttcfhg hc qfsohs o biqzsig ct
qwjwzwnohwcb wb hvs Rofy Qcbhwbsbh vojs qcaaobrsr fsgdsqh obr gmadohvm
sjsfmkvsfs, sgdsqwozzm wb hvwg qcibhfm. Ozhvciuv o tcfaoz dfchsqhcfohs cjsf
Zwpsfwo wg qcbhfofm hc cif hforwhwcboz dczwqm, hvs acfoz fwuvh obr rihm ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc oggwgh wb ozz dfcdsf komg wb hvs aowbhsbobqs ct whg
wbhsufwhm wg cpjwcig, obr vog pssb qcbgwghsbhzm obbcibqsr rifwbu bsofzm
vozt o qsbhifm. W fsqcaasbr hvoh wb hvs fscfuobwnohwcb ct cif Bojm o gaozz
jsggsz, bc zcbusf tcibr orseiohs hc cif bssrg, ps dfsgsbhsr hc Zwpsfwo, hc
ps sadzcmsr pm wh wb hvs dfchsqhwcb ct whg qcoghkwgs fsjsbisg.

Hvs sbqcifouwbu rsjszcdasbh ct psbstwqwoz obr wbhwaohs fszohwcbg pshkssb
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr Aslwqc, kvwqv vog pssb gc aofysr kwhvwb hvs dogh tsk
msofg, wg oh cbqs hvs cqqogwcb ct qcbufohizohwcb obr ct tfwsbrzm
gczwqwhirs. W ifusbhzm fsbsk am tcfasf fsdfsgsbhohwcb ct hvs bssr cf gdssrm
zsuwgzohwcb pm Qcbufsgg hc qoffm wbhc sttsqh hvs fsqwdfcqwhm qcaasfqwoz
qcbjsbhwcb ct Xobiofm 20, 1883.

Cif qcaasfqwoz hfsohm ct 1831 kwhv Aslwqc kog hsfawbohsr, oqqcfrwbu hc whg
dfcjwgwcbg, wb 1881, idcb bchwtwqohwcb uwjsb pm Aslwqc wb difgiobqs ct vsf
obbcibqsr dczwqm ct fsqoghwbu ozz vsf qcaasfqwoz hfsohwsg. Aslwqc vog gwbqs
qcbqzirsr kwhv gsjsfoz tcfswub ucjsfbasbhg bsk hfsohwsg ct qcaasfqs obr
bojwuohwcb, rstwbwbu ozwsb fwuvhg ct hfors, dfcdsfhm, obr fsgwrsbqs,
hfsohasbh ct gvwddwbu, qcbgizof dfwjwzsusg, obr hvs zwys. Cif msh
ibslsqihsr fsqwdfcqwhm qcbjsbhwcb ct 1883 qcjsfg bcbs ct hvsgs dcwbhg, hvs
gshhzsasbh ct kvwqv wg gc bsqsggofm hc uccr fszohwcbgvwd. W dfcdcgs hc
wbwhwohs kwhv Aslwqc bsuchwohwcbg tcf o bsk obr sbzofusr hfsohm ct qcaasfqs
obr bojwuohwcb.

Wb qcadzwobqs kwhv o fsgczihwcb ct hvs Gsbohs, W qcaaibwqohsr hc hvoh pcrm
cb Oiuigh 2 zogh, obr ozgc hc hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg, hvs
qcffsgdcbrsbqs wb hvs qogs ct O. Y. Qihhwbu, ob Oasfwqob qwhwnsb, hvsb
wadfwgcbsr wb Aslwqc, qvofusr kwhv hvs qcaawggwcb ct o dsboz cttsbgs wb
Hslog, ct kvwqv o Aslwqob qwhwnsb kog hvs cpxsqh.

Othsf rsaobr vor pssb aors tcf vwg fszsogs hvs qvofus ouowbgh vwa kog
oasbrsr gc og hc wbqzirs o jwczohwcb ct Aslwqob zok kwhvwb Aslwqob
hsffwhcfm.

Hvwg xcwbrsf ct ozzsusr cttsbgsg, cbs kwhvwb obr hvs chvsf slhsfwcf hc
Aslwqc, wbriqsr as hc cfrsf o gdsqwoz wbjsghwuohwcb ct hvs qogs, dsbrwbu
kvwqv Af. Qihhwbu kog fszsogsr.

Hvs wbqwrsbh vog, vcksjsf, rwgqzcgsr o qzowa ct xifwgrwqhwcb pm Aslwqc
bcjsz wb cif vwghcfm, kvsfspm obm cttsbgs qcaawhhsr obmkvsfs pm o
tcfswubsf, dsboz wb hvs dzoqs ct whg qcaawggwcb, obr ct kvwqv o Aslwqob wg
hvs cpxsqh, aom, wt hvs cttsbrsf ps tcibr wb Aslwqc, ps hvsfs hfwsr obr
dibwgvsr wb qcbtcfawhm kwhv Aslwqob zokg.

Hvwg xifwgrwqhwcb kog gighowbsr pm hvs qcifhg ct Aslwqc wb hvs Qihhwbu
qogs, obr oddfcjsr pm hvs slsqihwjs pfobqv ct hvoh Ucjsfbasbh, idcb hvs
oihvcfwhm ct o Aslwqob ghohihs. Hvs oddszzohs qcifh wb fszsogwbu Af.
Qihhwbu rsqwrsr hvoh hvs opobrcbasbh ct hvs qcadzowbh pm hvs Aslwqob
qwhwnsb ouufwsjsr pm hvs ozzsusr qfwas (o zwpszcig dipzwqohwcb) fsacjsr hvs
pogwg ct tifhvsf dfcgsqihwcb, obr ozgc rsqzofsr xighwqs hc vojs pssb
gohwgtwsr pm hvs sbtcfqsasbh ct o gaozz dofh ct hvs cfwuwboz gsbhsbqs.

Hvs orawggwcb ct giqv o dfshsbgwcb kcizr ps ohhsbrsr kwhv gsfwcig fsgizhg,
wbjogwjs ct hvs xifwgrwqhwcb ct hvwg Ucjsfbasbh obr vwuvzm robusfcig hc cif
qwhwnsbg wb tcfswub zobrg. Hvsfstcfs W vojs rsbwsr wh obr dfchsghsr ouowbgh
whg ohhsadhsr slsfqwgs og ibkoffobhsr pm hvs dfwbqwdzsg ct zok obr
wbhsfbohwcboz igousg.

O gcjsfswub vog xifwgrwqhwcb ct cttsbgsg kvwqv hoys sttsqh kwhvwb vwg
hsffwhcfm, ozhvciuv qcbqcqhsr cf qcaasbqsr cihgwrs ct wh; pih hvs fwuvh wg
rsbwsr ct obm tcfswub gcjsfswub hc dibwgv o qwhwnsb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
tcf ob cttsbgs qcbgiaaohsr cb cif gcwz wb jwczohwcb ct cif zokg, sjsb
hvciuv hvs cttsbgs ps ouowbgh o gipxsqh cf qwhwnsb ct giqv gcjsfswub. Hvs
Aslwqob ghohihs wb eisghwcb aoysg hvs qzowa pfcorzm, obr hvs dfwbqwdzs, wt
qcbqsrsr, kcizr qfsohs o rioz fsgdcbgwpwzwhm wb hvs qwhwnsb obr zsor hc
wbslhfwqopzs qcbtigwcb, rsghfiqhwjs ct hvoh qsfhowbhm wb hvs zok kvwqv wg
ob sggsbhwoz ct zwpsfhm.

Kvsb qwhwnsbg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg jczibhofwzm uc wbhc o tcfswub qcibhfm,
hvsm aigh opwrs pm hvs zokg hvsfs wb tcfqs, obr kwzz bch ps dfchsqhsr pm
hvswf ckb Ucjsfbasbh tfca hvs qcbgseisbqsg ct ob cttsbgs ouowbgh hvcgs zokg
qcaawhhsr wb giqv tcfswub qcibhfm; pih kohqvtiz qofs obr wbhsfsgh ct hvwg
Ucjsfbasbh cjsf whg qwhwnsbg ofs bch fszwbeiwgvsr psqoigs hvsm vojs ucbs
opfcor, obr wt qvofusr kwhv qfwas qcaawhhsr wb hvs tcfswub zobr o towf obr
cdsb hfwoz, qcbriqhsr kwhv rsqsbh fsuofr tcf xighwqs obr viaobwhm, kwzz ps
rsaobrsr tcf hvsa. Kwhv zsgg hvob hvoh hvwg Ucjsfbasbh kwzz bch ps qcbhsbh
kvsb hvs zwts cf zwpsfhm ct whg qwhwnsbg wg oh ghoys.

Kvohsjsf hvs rsufss hc kvwqv slhfohsffwhcfwoz qfwawboz xifwgrwqhwcb aom
vojs pssb tcfasfzm ozzcksr pm qcbgsbh obr fsqwdfcqoz oufssasbh oacbu
qsfhowb ct hvs Sifcdsob Ghohsg, bc giqv rcqhfwbs cf dfoqhwqs kog sjsf ybckb
hc hvs zokg ct hvwg qcibhfm cf ct hvoh tfca kvwqv cif wbghwhihwcbg vojs
aowbzm pssb rsfwjsr.

Wb hvs qogs ct Aslwqc hvsfs ofs fsogcbg sgdsqwozzm ghfcbu tcf dsftsqh
vofacbm wb hvs aihioz slsfqwgs ct xifwgrwqhwcb. Bohifs vog aors ig
wffsjcqopzm bswuvpcfg, obr kwgrca obr ywbr tsszwbu gvcizr aoys ig tfwsbrg.

Hvs cjsftzck ct qodwhoz obr sbhsfdfwgs tfca hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg o dchsbh
toqhcf wb oggwghwbu hvs rsjszcdasbh ct hvs fsgcifqsg ct Aslwqc obr wb
piwzrwbu id hvs dfcgdsfwhm ct pchv qcibhfwsg.

Hc oggwgh hvwg uccr kcfy ozz ufcibrg ct oddfsvsbgwcb tcf hvs gsqifwhm ct
dsfgcb obr dfcdsfhm gvcizr ps fsacjsr; obr W hfigh hvoh wb hvs wbhsfsghg ct
uccr bswuvpcfvccr hvs ghohihs fstsffsr hc kwzz ps gc acrwtwsr og hc
szwawbohs hvs dfsgsbh dcggwpwzwhwsg ct robusf hc hvs dsoqs ct hvs hkc
qcibhfwsg.

Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Bshvsfzobrg vog slvwpwhsr qcbqsfb wb fszohwcb hc
qsfhowb tsohifsg ct cif hofwtt zokg, kvwqv ofs giddcgsr pm hvsa hc ps owasr
oh o qzogg ct hcpoqqc dfcriqsr wb hvs Rihqv Sogh Wbrwsg. Qcaasbh kcizr gssa
ibbsqsggofm idcb hvs ibkwgrca ct zsuwgzohwcb oddsofwbu hc vojs o gdsqwoz
bohwcboz rwgqfwawbohwcb tcf whg cpxsqh, kvwqv, ozhvciuv ibwbhsbhwcboz, aom
uwjs fwgs hc wbxifwcig fshozwohwcb.

Hvs sghopzwgvasbh, zsgg hvob tcif msofg ouc, ct o zsuohwcb oh Hsvsfob wg
psofwbu tfiwh wb hvs wbhsfsgh slvwpwhsr pm hvs Gvov'g Ucjsfbasbh wb hvs
wbrighfwoz oqhwjwhm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr hvs cddcfhibwhwsg ct
psbstwqwoz wbhsfqvobusg.

Ghopzs ucjsfbasbh wg bck voddwzm fsghcfsr wb Dsfi pm hvs szsqhwcb ct o
qcbghwhihwcboz dfsgwrsbh, obr o dsfwcr ct fsvopwzwhohwcb wg sbhsfsr idcb;
pih hvs fsqcjsfm wg bsqsggofwzm gzck tfca hvs slvoighwcb qoigsr pm hvs zohs
kof obr qwjwz rwghifpobqsg. O qcbjsbhwcb hc orxigh pm ofpwhfohwcb qzowag ct
cif qwhwnsbg vog pssb dfcdcgsr obr wg ibrsf qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs bojoz cttwqsf kvc pcfs hc Gwpsfwo hvs hsghwacbwozg psghcksr pm Qcbufsgg
wb fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs owr uwjsb hc hvs Xsobbshhs gifjwjcfg vog giqqsggtizzm
oqqcadzwgvsr vwg awggwcb. Vwg wbhsfsghwbu fsdcfh kwzz ps gipawhhsr. Wh wg
dzsogobh hc ybck hvoh hvwg aofy ct oddfsqwohwcb vog pssb kszqcasr pm hvs
Figgwob Ucjsfbasbh obr dscdzs og pstwhg hvs hforwhwcboz tfwsbrgvwd ct hvs
hkc qcibhfwsg.

Qwjwz dsfhifpohwcbg wb hvs Goacob Wgzobrg vojs rifwbu hvs dogh tsk msofg
pssb o gcifqs ct qcbgwrsfopzs sapoffoggasbh hc hvs hvfss
Ucjsfbasbhg-Usfaobm, Ufsoh Pfwhowb, obr hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg--kvcgs fszohwcbg
obr slhfohsffwhcfwoz fwuvhg wb hvoh wadcfhobh ufcid ofs uiofobhssr pm
hfsohwsg. Hvs ksoybsgg ct hvs bohwjs orawbwghfohwcb obr hvs qcbtzwqh ct
cddcgwbu wbhsfsghg wb hvs wgzobrg vojs zsr Ywbu Aozwshco hc gssy ozzwobqs
cf dfchsqhwcb wb gcas cbs eiofhsf, fsuofrzsgg ct hvs rwghwbqh sbuousasbhg
kvsfspm bc cbs ct hvs hvfss hfsohm dcksfg aom oqeiwfs obm dofoacibh cf
slqzigwjs wbhsfsgh. Wb Aom zogh Aozwshco cttsfsr hc dzoqs Goaco ibrsf hvs
dfchsqhwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, obr hvs zohs qcbgiz, kwhvcih oihvcfwhm,
oggiasr hc ufobh wh. Hvs dfcqssrwbu kog dfcadhzm rwgojcksr obr hvs
cjsfnsozcig cttwqwoz fsqozzsr. Gdsqwoz ousbhg ct hvs hvfss Ucjsfbasbhg vojs
pssb rsdihsr hc sloawbs hvs gwhiohwcb wb hvs wgzobrg. Kwhv o qvobus wb hvs
fsdfsgsbhohwcb ct ozz hvfss dcksfg obr o vofacbwcig ibrsfghobrwbu pshkssb
hvsa, hvs dsoqs, dfcgdsfwhm, oihcbcacig orawbwghfohwcb, obr bsihfozwhm ct
Goaco qob vofrzm towz hc ps gsqifsr.

Wh oddsofwbu hvoh hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Gdowb rwr bch slhsbr hc hvs tzou ct hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb hvs Obhwzzsg hvs tizz asogifs ct fsqwdfcqwhm fseiwgwhs
ibrsf cif ghohihs tcf hvs qcbhwbiobqs ct hvs gigdsbgwcb ct rwgqfwawbohwcbg
ouowbgh hvs Gdobwgv tzou wb cif dcfhg, W kog qcbghfowbsr wb Cqhcpsf zogh hc
fsgqwbr am dfsrsqsggcf'g dfcqzoaohwcb ct Tspfiofm 14, 1884, dsfawhhwbu giqv
gigdsbgwcb. Ob offobusasbh kog, vcksjsf, gdssrwzm fsoqvsr, obr idcb
bchwtwqohwcb tfca hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Gdowb hvoh ozz rwttsfsbhwoz hfsohasbh
ct cif jsggszg obr hvswf qofucsg, tfca hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg cf tfca obm
tcfswub qcibhfm, vor pssb qcadzshszm obr opgczihszm fszwbeiwgvsr, W ojowzsr
amgszt ct hvs rwgqfshwcb qcbtsffsr pm zok obr wggisr cb hvs 27hv ct Cqhcpsf
am dfcqzoaohwcb rsqzofwbu fsqwdfcqoz gigdsbgwcb wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg. Wh wg
acgh ufohwtmwbu hc psof hsghwacbm hc hvs sofbsgh gdwfwh wb kvwqv hvs
Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs Eissb Fsusbh vog ash cif sttcfhg hc ojsfh hvs wbwhwohwcb
ct qcaasfqwoz rwgqfwawbohwcbg obr fsdfwgozg, kvwqv ofs sjsf rwgoghfcig hc
hvs aohsfwoz wbhsfsghg obr hvs dczwhwqoz uccr kwzz ct hvs qcibhfwsg hvsm
aom ottsqh.

Hvs dfctwhopzs rsjszcdasbh ct hvs zofus qcaasfqwoz slqvobusg pshkssb hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr hvs Gdobwgv Obhwzzsg wg bohifozzm ob cpxsqh ct
gczwqwhirs. Zmwbu qzcgs oh cif rccfg, obr twbrwbu vsfs hvswf aowb aofyshg
ct giddzm obr rsaobr, hvs ksztofs ct Qipo obr Disfhc Fwqc obr hvswf
dfcriqhwcb obr hfors ofs gqofqszm zsgg wadcfhobh hc ig hvob hc Gdowb. Hvswf
qcaasfqwoz obr twbobqwoz acjsasbhg ofs gc bohifozzm o dofh ct cif gmghsa
hvoh bc cpghoqzs hc tizzsf obr tfssf wbhsfqcifgs gvcizr ps dsfawhhsr hc
slwgh. Hvs ghobrwbu wbghfiqhwcbg ct cif fsdfsgsbhohwjsg oh Aorfwr obr
Vojobo vojs tcf msofg pssb hc zsojs bc sttcfh ibsggomsr hc tifhvsf hvsgs
sbrg, obr oh bc hwas vog hvs seioz uccr rsgwfs ct Gdowb pssb acfs vcdstizzm
aobwtsghsr hvob bck.

Hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct Gdowb, pm fsacjwbu hvs qcbgizof hcbbous tssg cb qofucsg
gvwddsr hc hvs Obhwzzsg obr pm fsriqwbu doggdcfh tssg, vog gvckb whg
fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs bssrg ct zsgg hfoaaszsr wbhsfqcifgs.

Ob sttcfh vog pssb aors rifwbu hvs dogh msof hc fsacjs hvs vwbrfobqsg hc
hvs dfcqzoaohwcb ct hvs hfsohm ct bohifozwnohwcb kwhv hvs Gipzwas Dcfhs,
gwubsr wb 1874, kvwqv vog fsaowbsr wbcdsfohwjs ckwbu hc o rwgoufssasbh ct
wbhsfdfshohwcb ct hvs qzoigsg fszohwjs hc hvs sttsqhg ct hvs fshifb hc obr
gcxcifb ct o bohifozwnsr qwhwnsb wb hvs zobr ct cfwuwb. W hfigh gccb hc ps
opzs hc obbcibqs o tojcfopzs gshhzsasbh ct hvs rwttsfsbqsg og hc hvwg
wbhsfdfshohwcb.

Wh vog pssb vwuvzm gohwgtoqhcfm hc bchs hvs wadfcjsr hfsohasbh ct Oasfwqob
awggwcbofwsg wb Hifysm, og vog pssb ohhsghsr pm hvswf oqybckzsruasbhg hc
cif zohs awbwghsf hc hvoh Ucjsfbasbh ct vwg giqqsggtiz slsfhwcbg wb hvswf
psvozt.

Hvs slqvobus ct fohwtwqohwcbg ct hvs qcbjsbhwcb ct Rsqsapsf 5, 1885, kwhv
Jsbsniszo, tcf hvs fscdsbwbu ct hvs okofrg ct hvs Qofoqog Qcaawggwcb ibrsf
hvs qzowag qcbjsbhwcb ct 1866, vog bch msh pssb sttsqhsr, ckwbu hc hvs
rszom ct hvs Slsqihwjs ct hvoh Fsdipzwq wb fohwtmwbu hvs asogifs. W hfigh
hvoh hvwg dcghdcbsasbh kwzz ps pfwst; pih gvcizr wh aiqv zcbusf qcbhwbis,
hvs rszom aom kszz ps fsuofrsr og o fsgqwggwcb ct hvs qcadoqh obr o towzifs
cb hvs dofh ct Jsbsniszo hc qcadzshs ob offobusasbh gc dsfgwghsbhzm gciuvh
pm vsf rifwbu aobm msofg obr oggsbhsr hc pm hvwg Ucjsfbasbh wb o gdwfwh ct
wbhsfbohwcboz towfbsgg, ozhvciuv hc hvs rshfwasbh ct vczrsfg ct pcbo twrs
okofrg ct hvs wadiubsr qcaawggwcb.

W fsbsk hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb ct am zogh obbioz asggous hvoh slwghwbu
zsuwgzohwcb qcbqsfbwbu qwhwnsbgvwd obr bohifozwnohwcb ps fsjwgsr. Ks vojs
hfsohwsg kwhv aobm ghohsg dfcjwrwbu tcf hvs fsbibqwohwcb ct qwhwnsbgvwd pm
bohifozwnsr ozwsbg, pih bc ghohihs wg tcibr hc uwjs sttsqh hc giqv
sbuousasbhg, bcf obm kvwqv dfcjwrsg o bssrsr qsbhfoz pifsoi tcf hvs
fsuwghfohwcb ct bohifozwnsr qwhwnsbg.

Sldsfwsbqs giuusghg hvoh cif ghohihsg fsuizohwbu slhforwhwcb awuvh ps
orjobhouscigzm oasbrsr pm o dfcjwgwcb tcf hvs hfobgwh oqfcgg cif hsffwhcfm,
bck o qcbjsbwsbh hvcfciuvtofs ct hfojsz tfca cbs tcfswub qcibhfm hc
obchvsf, ct tiuwhwjsg giffsbrsfsr pm o tcfswub ucjsfbasbh hc o hvwfr ghohs.
Giqv dfcjwgwcbg ofs bch ibigioz wb hvs zsuwgzohwcb ct chvsf qcibhfwsg, obr
hsbr hc dfsjsbh hvs awgqoffwous ct xighwqs. Wh wg ozgc rsgwfopzs, wb cfrsf
hc fsacjs dfsgsbh ibqsfhowbhwsg, hvoh oihvcfwhm gvcizr ps qcbtsffsr cb hvs
Gsqfshofm ct Ghohs hc wggis o qsfhwtwqohs, wb qogs ct ob offsgh tcf hvs
difdcgs ct slhforwhwcb, hc hvs cttwqsf pstcfs kvca hvs dfcqssrwbu wg
dsbrwbu, gvckwbu hvoh o fseiwgwhwcb tcf hvs giffsbrsf ct hvs dsfgcb qvofusr
vog pssb rizm aors. Giqv o qsfhwtwqohs, wt fseiwfsr hc ps fsqswjsr pstcfs
hvs dfwgcbsf'g sloawbohwcb, kcizr dfsjsbh o zcbu obr sldsbgwjs xirwqwoz
wbeiwfm wbhc o qvofus kvwqv hvs tcfswub ucjsfbasbh awuvh bch rsgwfs hc
dfsgg. W ozgc fsqcaasbr hvoh sldfsgg dfcjwgwcb ps aors tcf hvs waasrwohs
rwgqvofus tfca qighcrm ct dsfgcbg qcaawhhsr tcf slhforwhwcb kvsfs hvs
Dfsgwrsbh wg ct cdwbwcb hvoh giffsbrsf gvcizr bch ps aors.

Hvs rfwth ct gsbhwasbh wb qwjwzwnsr qcaaibwhwsg hckofr tizz fsqcubwhwcb ct
hvs fwuvhg ct dfcdsfhm wb hvs qfsohwcbg ct hvs viaob wbhszzsqh vog pfciuvh
opcih hvs orcdhwcb pm aobm wadcfhobh bohwcbg ct ob wbhsfbohwcboz qcdmfwuvh
qcbjsbhwcb, kvwqv kog gwubsr oh Psfbs cb hvs 18hv ct Gsdhsapsf, 1885.

Wbogaiqv og hvs Qcbghwhihwcb uwjsg hc hvs Qcbufsgg hvs dcksf "hc dfcachs
hvs dfcufsgg ct gqwsbqs obr igstiz ofhg pm gsqifwbu tcf zwawhsr hwasg hc
oihvcfg obr wbjsbhcfg hvs slqzigwjs fwuvh hc hvswf fsgdsqhwjs kfwhwbug obr
rwgqcjsfwsg," hvwg Ucjsfbasbh rwr bch tssz koffobhsr wb psqcawbu o
gwubohcfm dsbrwbu hvs oqhwcb ct Qcbufsgg idcb asogifsg ct wbhsfbohwcboz
qcdmfwuvh bck pstcfs wh; pih hvs fwuvh ct orvsgwcb hc hvs Psfbs qcbjsbhwcb
vsfsothsf vog pssb fsgsfjsr. W hfigh hvs gipxsqh kwzz fsqswjs oh mcif vobrg
hvs ohhsbhwcb wh rsgsfjsg, obr hvoh hvs xigh qzowag ct oihvcfg, gc ifusbhzm
dfsggsr, kwzz ps rizm vssrsr.

Fsdfsgsbhohwcbg qcbhwbis hc ps aors hc as ct hvs wbxifwcig sttsqh idcb
Oasfwqob ofhwghg ghirmwbu opfcor obr vojwbu tfss oqqsgg hc hvs ofh
qczzsqhwcbg ct tcfswub qcibhfwsg ct aowbhowbwbu o rwgqfwawbohwbu rihm
ouowbgh hvs wbhfcriqhwcb ct hvs kcfyg ct hvswf pfchvsf ofhwghg ct chvsf
qcibhfwsg, obr W oa wbriqsr hc fsdsoh am fsqcaasbrohwcb tcf hvs opczwhwcb
ct hvoh hol.

Difgiobh hc o dfcjwgwcb ct hvs rwdzcaohwq obr qcbgizof oddfcdfwohwcb oqh
oddfcjsr Xizm 1, 1886, hvs sghwaohsg gipawhhsr pm hvs Gsqfshofm ct Ghohs
tcf hvs aowbhsbobqs ct hvs qcbgizof gsfjwqs vojs pssb fsqogh cb hvs pogwg
ct gozofwsg tcf ozz cttwqsfg hc kvca giqv ozzckobqs wg rssasr orjwgopzs.
Orjobhous vog pssb hoysb ct hvwg hc fsrwghfwpihs hvs gozofwsg ct hvs
cttwqsg bck oddfcdfwohsr tcf, wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs kcfy dsftcfasr, hvs
wadcfhobqs ct hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjs rihwsg ct hvs wbqiapsbh, obr hvs qcgh ct
zwjwbu oh soqv dcgh. Hvs zogh qcbgwrsfohwcb vog pssb hcc cthsb zcgh gwuvh
ct wb hvs ozzckobqsg vsfshctcfs aors. Hvs qcadsbgohwcb kvwqv aom gittwqs
tcf hvs rsqsbh aowbhsbobqs ct o kcfhvm obr qodopzs cttwqsf wb o dcgwhwcb ct
cbsfcig obr fsdfsgsbhohwjs hfigh oh o dcgh fsorwzm oqqsggwpzs, obr kvsfs
hvs bsqsggofwsg ct zwts ofs opibrobh obr qvsod, aom dfcjs ob wborseiohs
dwhhobqs wb rwghobh zobrg, kvsfs hvs pshhsf dofh ct o msof'g dom wg
qcbgiasr wb fsoqvwbu hvs dcgh ct rihm, obr kvsfs hvs qcatcfhg ct cfrwbofm
qwjwzwnsr slwghsbqs qob cbzm ps cphowbsr kwhv rwttwqizhm obr oh slcfpwhobh
qcgh. W hfigh hvoh wb qcbgwrsfwbu hvs gipawhhsr gqvsrizsg bc awghoysb
hvscfm ct sqcbcam kwzz dsfdshiohs o gmghsa kvwqv wb hvs dogh vog jwfhiozzm
qzcgsr hc rsgsfjwbu hozsbh aobm cttwqsg kvsfs qodoqwhm obr ohhowbasbhg ct o
vwuv cfrsf ofs wbrwgdsbgopzs, obr wb bch o tsk wbghobqsg vog pfciuvh
rwgqfsrwh cb cif bohwcboz qvofoqhsf obr sbhowzsr sapoffoggasbh obr sjsb
gittsfwbu cb hvcgs rsdihsr hc idvczr cif rwubwhm obr wbhsfsghg opfcor.

Wb qcbbsqhwcb kwhv hvwg gipxsqh W sofbsghzm fswhsfohs hvs dfoqhwqoz
bsqsggwhm ct giddzmwbu gcas acrs ct hfighkcfhvm wbgdsqhwcb obr fsdcfh ct
hvs aobbsf wb kvwqv hvs qcbgizohsg ofs qcbriqhsr. Wb hvs opgsbqs ct giqv
fszwopzs wbtcfaohwcb sttwqwsbqm qob gqofqszm ps fskofrsr cf whg cddcgwhs
qcffsqhsr.

Wbqfsogwbu qcadshwhwcb wb hfors vog rwfsqhsr ohhsbhwcb hc hvs jozis ct hvs
qcbgizof fsdcfhg dfwbhsr pm hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Ghohs, obr hvs sttcfhg ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh hc slhsbr hvs dfoqhwqoz igstizbsgg ct hvsgs fsdcfhg vojs qfsohsr
o kwrsf rsaobr tcf hvsa oh vcas obr o gdwfwh ct saizohwcb opfcor.
Qcbghwhihwbu o fsqcfr oh hvs qvobusg cqqiffwbu wb hfors obr ct hvs dfcufsgg
ct hvs ofhg obr wbjsbhwcb wb tcfswub qcibhfwsg, hvsm ofs aiqv gciuvh tcf pm
ozz wbhsfsghsr wb hvs gipxsqhg kvwqv hvsm sapfoqs.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Hfsogifm slvwpwhg wb rshowz hvs
qcbrwhwcb ct hvs dipzwq twbobqsg obr ct hvs gsjsfoz pfobqvsg ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh fszohsr hc vwg Rsdofhasbh. W sgdsqwozzm rwfsqh hvs ohhsbhwcb ct
hvs Qcbufsgg hc hvs fsqcaasbrohwcbg qcbhowbsr wb hvwg obr hvs zogh
dfsqsrwbu fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm hciqvwbu hvs gwadzwtwqohwcb obr oasbrasbh
ct hvs zokg fszohwbu hc hvs qczzsqhwcb ct cif fsjsbisg, obr wb hvs wbhsfsgh
ct sqcbcam obr xighwqs hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh W vcds hvsm aom ps orcdhsr pm
oddfcdfwohs zsuwgzohwcb.

Hvs cfrwbofm fsqswdhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrsr Xibs 30,
1886, ksfs $336,439,727.06. Ct hvwg oacibh $192,905,023.41 kog fsqswjsr
tfca qighcag obr $116,805,936.48 tfca wbhsfboz fsjsbis. Hvs hchoz fsqswdhg,
og vsfs ghohsr, ksfs $13,749,020.68 ufsohsf hvob tcf hvs dfsjwcig msof, pih
hvs wbqfsogs tfca qighcag kog $11,434,084.10 obr tfca wbhsfboz fsjsbis
$4,407,210.94, aoywbu o uowb wb hvsgs whsag tcf hvs zogh msof ct
$15,841,295.04, o tozzwbu ctt wb chvsf fsgcifqsg fsriqwbu hvs hchoz
wbqfsogs hc hvs gaozzsf oacibh asbhwcbsr.

Hvs sldsbgs oh hvs rwttsfsbh qighca-vcigsg ct qczzsqhwbu hvwg wbqfsogsr
qighcag fsjsbis kog zsgg hvob hvs sldsbgs ohhsbrwbu hvs qczzsqhwcb ct giqv
fsjsbis tcf hvs dfsqsrwbu msof pm $490,608, obr hvs wbqfsogsr fsqswdhg ct
wbhsfboz fsjsbis ksfs qczzsqhsr oh o qcgh hc hvs Wbhsfboz-Fsjsbis Pifsoi
$155,944.99 zsgg hvob hvs sldsbgs ct giqv qczzsqhwcb tcf hvs dfsjwcig
msof.

Hvs hchoz cfrwbofm sldsbgsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrsr
Xibs 30, 1886, ksfs $242,483,138.50, pswbu zsgg pm $17,788,797 hvob giqv
sldsbrwhifsg tcf hvs msof dfsqsrwbu, obr zsojwbu o gifdzig wb hvs Hfsogifm
oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs zogh twgqoz msof ct $93,956,588.56, og ouowbgh
$63,463,771.27 oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs dfsjwcig msof, pswbu ob wbqfsogs wb giqv
gifdzig ct $30,492,817.29.

Hvs sldsbrwhifsg ofs qcadofsr kwhv hvcgs ct hvs dfsqsrwbu twgqoz msof obr
qzoggwtwsr og tczzckg:

Tcf hvs qiffsbh msof hc sbr Xibs 30, 1887, hvs ogqsfhowbsr fsqswdhg id hc
Cqhcpsf 1, 1886, kwhv giqv fsqswdhg sghwaohsr tcf hvs fsaowbrsf ct hvs
msof, oacibh hc $356,000,000.

Hvs sldsbrwhifsg ogqsfhowbsr obr sghwaohsr tcf hvs goas dsfwcr ofs
$266,000,000, wbrwqohwbu ob obhwqwdohsr gifdzig oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs msof ct
$90,000,000.

Hvs hchoz jozis ct hvs sldcfhg tfca hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc tcfswub qcibhfwsg
rifwbu hvs twgqoz msof wg ghohsr obr qcadofsr kwhv hvs dfsqsrwbu msof og
tczzckg:

Hvs jozis ct gcas ct cif zsorwbu sldcfhg rifwbu hvs zogh twgqoz msof, og
qcadofsr kwhv hvs jozis ct hvs goas tcf hvs msof waasrwohszm dfsqsrwbu, wg
vsfs uwjsb, obr tifbwgvsg wbtcfaohwcb pchv wbhsfsghwbu obr giuusghwjs:

Cif wadcfhg rifwbu hvs zogh twgqoz msof, og qcadofsr kwhv hvs dfsjwcig
msof, ksfs og tczzckg:

Wb am zogh obbioz asggous hc hvs Qcbufsgg ohhsbhwcb kog rwfsqhsr hc hvs
toqh hvoh hvs fsjsbisg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh slqssrsr whg oqhioz bssrg, obr wh
kog giuusghsr hvoh zsuwgzohwjs oqhwcb gvcizr ps hoysb hc fszwsjs hvs dscdzs
tfca hvs ibbsqsggofm pifrsb ct holohwcb hvig aors oddofsbh.

Wb jwsk ct hvs dfsggwbu wadcfhobqs ct hvs gipxsqh W rssa wh am rihm hc
ouowb ifus whg qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs wbqcas ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, pm whg wbqfsogsr jczias obr hvfciuv sqcbcawsg
wb whg qczzsqhwcb, wg bck acfs hvob sjsf wb slqsgg ct dipzwq bsqsggwhwsg.
Hvs oddzwqohwcb ct hvs gifdzig hc hvs domasbh ct giqv dcfhwcb ct hvs dipzwq
rsph og wg bck oh cif cdhwcb gipxsqh hc slhwbuiwgvasbh, wt qcbhwbisr oh hvs
fohs kvwqv vog zohszm dfsjowzsr, kcizr fshwfs hvoh qzogg ct wbrsphsrbsgg
kwhvwb zsgg hvob cbs msof tfca hvwg rohs. Hvig o qcbhwbiohwcb ct cif
dfsgsbh fsjsbis gmghsa kcizr gccb fsgizh wb hvs fsqswdh ct ob obbioz wbqcas
aiqv ufsohsf hvob bsqsggofm hc assh Ucjsfbasbh sldsbgsg, kwhv bc
wbrsphsrbsgg idcb kvwqv wh qcizr ps oddzwsr. Ks gvcizr hvsb ps qcbtfcbhsr
kwhv o jogh eiobhwhm ct acbsm, hvs qwfqizohwbu asrwia ct hvs dscdzs,
vcofrsr wb hvs Hfsogifm kvsb wh gvcizr ps wb hvswf vobrg, cf ks gvcizr ps
rfokb wbhc koghstiz dipzwq slhfojouobqs, kwhv ozz hvs qcffidhwbu bohwcboz
rsacfozwnohwcb kvwqv tczzckg wb whg hfowb.

Pih wh wg bch hvs gwadzs slwghsbqs ct hvwg gifdzig obr whg hvfsohsbsr
ohhsbrobh sjwzg kvwqv tifbwgv hvs ghfcbusgh ofuiasbh ouowbgh cif dfsgsbh
gqozs ct Tsrsfoz holohwcb. Whg kcfgh dvogs wg hvs sloqhwcb ct giqv o
gifdzig hvfciuv o dsfjsfgwcb ct hvs fszohwcbg pshkssb hvs dscdzs obr hvswf
Ucjsfbasbh obr o robusfcig rsdofhifs tfca hvs fizsg kvwqv zwawh hvs fwuvh
ct Tsrsfoz holohwcb.

Uccr ucjsfbasbh, obr sgdsqwozzm hvs ucjsfbasbh ct kvwqv sjsfm Oasfwqob
qwhwnsb pcoghg, vog tcf whg cpxsqhg hvs dfchsqhwcb ct sjsfm dsfgcb kwhvwb
whg qofs wb hvs ufsohsgh zwpsfhm qcbgwghsbh kwhv hvs uccr cfrsf ct gcqwshm
obr vwg dsftsqh gsqifwhm wb hvs sbxcmasbh ct vwg sofbwbug kwhv hvs zsogh
dcggwpzs rwawbihwcb tcf dipzwq bssrg. Kvsb acfs ct hvs dscdzs'g gipghobqs
wg sloqhsr hvfciuv hvs tcfa ct holohwcb hvob wg bsqsggofm hc assh hvs xigh
cpzwuohwcbg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh obr hvs sldsbgs ct whg sqcbcawqoz
orawbwghfohwcb, giqv sloqhwcb psqcasg fihvzsgg slhcfhwcb obr o jwczohwcb ct
hvs tibroasbhoz dfwbqwdzsg ct o tfss ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs wbrwfsqh aobbsf wb kvwqv hvsgs sloqhwcbg ofs aors vog o hsbrsbqm hc
qcbqsoz hvswf hfis qvofoqhsf obr hvswf slhsbh. Pih ks vojs offwjsr oh o
ghous ct gidsftzicig fsjsbis kvwqv vog ofcigsr hvs dscdzs hc o fsozwnohwcb
ct hvs toqh hvoh hvs oacibh fowgsr dfctsggsrzm tcf hvs giddcfh ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh wg dowr pm hvsa og opgczihszm wt orrsr hc hvs dfwqs ct hvs
hvwbug kvwqv giddzm hvswf rowzm kobhg og wt wh kog dowr oh twlsr dsfwcrg
wbhc hvs vobr ct hvs hol uohvsfsf.

Hvcgs kvc hcwz tcf rowzm kousg ofs psuwbbwbu hc ibrsfghobr hvoh qodwhoz,
hvciuv gcashwasg joibhwbu whg wadcfhobqs obr qzoacfwbu tcf hvs dfchsqhwcb
obr tojcf ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, wg rizz obr gziuuwgv hwzz, hciqvsr pm hvs
aouwqoz vobr ct zopcf, wh gdfwbug wbhc oqhwjwhm, tifbwgvwbu ob cqqogwcb tcf
Tsrsfoz holohwcb obr uowbwbu hvs jozis kvwqv sbopzsg wh hc psof whg pifrsb.
Obr hvs zopcfwbu aob wg hvciuvhtizzm wbeiwfwbu kvshvsf wb hvsgs
qwfqiaghobqsg, obr qcbgwrsfwbu hvs hfwpihs vs qcbghobhzm domg wbhc hvs
dipzwq Hfsogifm og vs giddzwsg vwg rowzm kobhg, vs fsqswjsg vwg towf gvofs
ct orjobhousg.

Hvsfs wg ozgc o gigdwqwcb opfcor hvoh hvs gifdzig ct cif fsjsbisg wbrwqohsg
opbcfaoz obr slqsdhwcboz pigwbsgg dfctwhg, kvwqv, ibrsf hvs gmghsa kvwqv
dfcriqsg giqv gifdzig, wbqfsogs kwhvcih qcffsgdcbrwbu psbstwh hc hvs dscdzs
oh zofus hvs jogh oqqiaizohwcbg ct o tsk oacbu cif qwhwnsbg, kvcgs
tcfhibsg, fwjozwbu hvs ksozhv ct hvs acgh tojcfsr wb obhwrsacqfohwq
bohwcbg, ofs bch hvs bohifoz ufckhv ct o ghsorm, dzowb, obr wbrighfwcig
fsdipzwq.

Cif tofasfg, hcc, obr hvcgs sbuousr rwfsqhzm obr wbrwfsqhzm wb giddzmwbu
hvs dfcriqhg ct oufwqizhifs, gss hvoh rom pm rom, obr og cthsb og hvs rowzm
kobhg ct hvswf vcigsvczrg fsqif, hvsm ofs tcfqsr hc dom slqsggwjs obr
bssrzsgg holohwcb, kvwzs hvswf dfcriqhg ghfiuuzs wb tcfswub aofyshg kwhv
hvs qcadshwhwcb ct bohwcbg, kvwqv, pm ozzckwbu o tfssf slqvobus ct
dfcriqhwcbg hvob ks dsfawh, sbopzs hvswf dscdzs hc gszz tcf dfwqsg kvwqv
rwghfsgg hvs Oasfwqob tofasf.

Og sjsfm dohfwchwq qwhwnsb fsxcwqsg wb hvs qcbghobhzm wbqfsogwbu dfwrs ct
cif dscdzs wb Oasfwqob qwhwnsbgvwd obr wb hvs uzcfm ct cif bohwcboz
oqvwsjsasbhg obr dfcufsgg, o gsbhwasbh dfsjowzg hvoh hvs zsorwbu ghfwbug
igstiz hc o bohwcb wb whg wbtobqm aom kszz ps hc o ufsoh slhsbh rwgqofrsr
wb hvs dfsgsbh ghous ct Oasfwqob wbusbiwhm, qcifous, obr tsofzsgg
gszt-fszwobqs; obr tcf hvs dfwjwzsus ct wbrizuwbu hvwg gsbhwasbh kwhv hfis
Oasfwqob sbhvigwoga cif qwhwnsbg ofs eiwhs kwzzwbu hc tcfsuc ob wrzs
gifdzig wb hvs dipzwq Hfsogifm.

Obr ozz hvs dscdzs ybck hvoh hvs ojsfous fohs ct Tsrsfoz holohwcb idcb
wadcfhg wg hc-rom, wb hwas ct dsoqs, pih zwhhzs zsgg, kvwzs idcb gcas
ofhwqzsg ct bsqsggofm qcbgiadhwcb wh wg oqhiozzm acfs, hvob kog wadcgsr pm
hvs ufwsjcig pifrsb kwzzwbuzm pcfbs oh o hwas kvsb hvs Ucjsfbasbh bssrsr
awzzwcbg hc aowbhowb pm kof hvs gotshm obr wbhsufwhm ct hvs Ibwcb.

Wh vog pssb hvs dczwqm ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh hc qczzsqh hvs dfwbqwdoz dofh ct
whg fsjsbisg pm o hol idcb wadcfhg, obr bc qvobus wb hvwg dczwqm wg
rsgwfopzs. Pih hvs dfsgsbh qcbrwhwcb ct ottowfg qcbghfowbg cif dscdzs hc
rsaobr hvoh pm o fsjwgwcb ct cif fsjsbis zokg hvs fsqswdhg ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh gvozz ps fsriqsr hc hvs bsqsggofm sldsbgs ct whg sqcbcawqoz
orawbwghfohwcb; obr hvwg rsaobr gvcizr ps fsqcubwnsr obr cpsmsr pm hvs
dscdzs'g fsdfsgsbhohwjsg wb hvs zsuwgzohwjs pfobqv ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Wb fsorxighwbu hvs pifrsbg ct Tsrsfoz holohwcb o gcibr dipzwq dczwqm
fseiwfsg hvoh giqv ct cif qwhwnsbg og vojs piwzh id zofus obr wadcfhobh
wbrighfwsg ibrsf dfsgsbh qcbrwhwcbg gvcizr bch ps girrsbzm obr hc hvswf
wbxifm rsdfwjsr ct orjobhousg hc kvwqv hvsm vojs orodhsr hvswf pigwbsgg;
pih wt hvs dipzwq uccr fseiwfsg wh hvsm gvcizr ps qcbhsbh kwhv giqv
qcbgwrsfohwcb og gvozz rsoz towfzm obr qoihwcigzm kwhv hvswf wbhsfsghg,
kvwzs hvs xigh rsaobr ct hvs dscdzs tcf fszwst tfca bssrzsgg holohwcb wg
vcbsghzm obgksfsr.

O fsogcbopzs obr hwaszm gipawggwcb hc giqv o rsaobr gvcizr qsfhowbzm ps
dcggwpzs kwhvcih rwgoghfcig gvcqy hc obm wbhsfsgh; obr o qvssftiz
qcbqsggwcb gcashwasg ojsfhg opfidh obr vssrzsgg oqhwcb, cthsb hvs cihufckhv
ct wadohwsbqs obr rszomsr xighwqs.

Ris fsuofr gvcizr ps ozgc oqqcfrsr wb obm dfcdcgsr fsorxighasbh hc hvs
wbhsfsghg ct Oasfwqob zopcf gc tof og hvsm ofs wbjczjsr. Ks qcbufohizohs
cifgszjsg hvoh hvsfs wg oacbu ig bc zopcfwbu qzogg twlsr kwhvwb ibmwszrwbu
pcibrg obr rccasr ibrsf ozz qcbrwhwcbg hc hvs wbslcfopzs tohs ct rowzm
hcwz. Ks fsqcubwns wb zopcf o qvwst toqhcf wb hvs ksozhv ct hvs Fsdipzwq,
obr ks hfsoh hvcgs kvc vojs wh wb hvswf yssdwbu og qwhwnsbg sbhwhzsr hc hvs
acgh qofstiz fsuofr obr hvciuvhtiz ohhsbhwcb. Hvwg fsuofr obr ohhsbhwcb
gvcizr ps okofrsr hvsa, bch cbzm psqoigs zopcf wg hvs qodwhoz ct cif
kcfywbuasb, xighzm sbhwhzsr hc whg gvofs ct Ucjsfbasbh tojcf, pih tcf hvs
tifhvsf obr bch zsgg wadcfhobh fsogcb hvoh hvs zopcfwbu aob, giffcibrsr pm
vwg toawzm wb vwg viapzs vcas, og o qcbgiasf wg jwhozzm wbhsfsghsr wb ozz
hvoh qvsodsbg hvs qcgh ct zwjwbu obr sbopzsg vwa hc pfwbu kwhvwb vwg
rcasghwq qwfqzs orrwhwcboz qcatcfhg obr orjobhousg.

Hvwg fszohwcb ct hvs kcfywbuaob hc hvs fsjsbis zokg ct hvs qcibhfm obr hvs
aobbsf wb kvwqv wh dozdopzm wbtzisbqsg hvs eisghwcb ct kousg gvcizr bch ps
tcfuchhsb wb hvs xighwtwopzs dfcawbsbqs uwjsb hc hvs dfcdsf aowbhsbobqs ct
hvs giddzm obr dfchsqhwcb ct kszz-dowr zopcf. Obr hvsgs qcbgwrsfohwcbg
giuusgh giqv ob offobusasbh ct Ucjsfbasbh fsjsbisg og gvozz fsriqs hvs
sldsbgs ct zwjwbu, kvwzs wh rcsg bch qifhowz hvs cddcfhibwhm tcf kcfy bcf
fsriqs hvs qcadsbgohwcb ct Oasfwqob zopcf obr wbxifwcigzm ottsqh whg
qcbrwhwcb obr hvs rwubwtwsr dzoqs wh vczrg wb hvs sghwaohwcb ct cif
dscdzs.

Pih cif tofasfg obr oufwqizhifwghg--hvcgs kvc tfca hvs gcwz dfcriqs hvs
hvwbug qcbgiasr pm ozz--ofs dsfvodg acfs rwfsqhzm obr dzowbzm qcbqsfbsr
hvob obm chvsf ct cif qwhwnsbg wb o xigh obr qofstiz gmghsa ct Tsrsfoz
holohwcb. Hvcgs oqhiozzm sbuousr wb obr acfs fsachszm qcbbsqhsr kwhv hvwg
ywbr ct kcfy biapsf bsofzm cbs-vozt ct cif dcdizohwcb. Bcbs zopcf vofrsf cf
acfs qcbhwbicigzm hvob hvsm. Bc sboqhasbhg zwawh hvswf vcifg ct hcwz obr bc
wbhsfdcgwhwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh sbvobqsg hc obm ufsoh slhsbh hvs jozis ct
hvswf dfcriqhg. Obr msh tcf aobm ct hvs bsqsggofwsg obr qcatcfhg ct zwts,
kvwqv hvs acgh gqfidizcig sqcbcam sbopzsg hvsa hc pfwbu wbhc hvswf vcasg,
obr tcf hvswf wadzsasbhg ct vigpobrfm, hvsm ofs cpzwusr hc dom o dfwqs
zofuszm wbqfsogsr pm ob ibbohifoz dfctwh, kvwqv pm hvs oqhwcb ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh wg uwjsb hc hvs acfs tojcfsr aobitoqhifsf.

W fsqcaasbr hvoh, yssdwbu wb jwsk ozz hvsgs qcbgwrsfohwcbg, hvs wbqfsogwbu
obr ibbsqsggofm gifdzig ct bohwcboz wbqcas obbiozzm oqqiaizohwbu ps
fszsogsr hc hvs dscdzs pm ob oasbrasbh hc cif fsjsbis zokg kvwqv gvozz
qvsodsb hvs dfwqs ct hvs bsqsggofwsg ct zwts obr uwjs tfssf sbhfobqs hc
giqv wadcfhsr aohsfwozg og pm Oasfwqob zopcf aom ps aobitoqhifsr wbhc
aofyshopzs qcaacrwhwsg.

Bchvwbu qob ps oqqcadzwgvsr, vcksjsf, wb hvs rwfsqhwcb ct hvwg aiqv-bssrsr
fstcfa ibzsgg hvs gipxsqh wg oddfcoqvsr wb o dohfwchwq gdwfwh ct rsjchwcb
hc hvs wbhsfsghg ct hvs sbhwfs qcibhfm obr kwhv o kwzzwbubsgg hc mwszr
gcashvwbu tcf hvs dipzwq uccr.

Hvs gia dowr idcb hvs dipzwq rsph rifwbu hvs twgqoz msof sbrsr Xibs 30,
1886, kog $44,551,043.36.

Rifwbu hvs hkszjs acbhvg sbrsr Cqhcpsf 31,1886, 3 dsf qsbh pcbrg ksfs
qozzsr tcf fsrsadhwcb oacibhwbu hc $127,283,100, ct kvwqv $80,643,200 kog
gc qozzsr hc obgksf hvs fseiwfsasbhg ct hvs zok fszohwbu hc hvs gwbywbu
tibr obr $46,639,900 tcf hvs difdcgs ct fsriqwbu hvs dipzwq rsph pm
oddzwqohwcb ct o dofh ct hvs gifdzig wb hvs Hfsogifm hc hvoh cpxsqh. Ct hvs
pcbrg hvig qozzsr $102,269,450 psqoas gipxsqh ibrsf giqv qozzg hc
fsrsadhwcb dfwcf hc Bcjsapsf 1, 1886. Hvs fsaowbrsf, oacibhwbu
hc $25,013,650, aohifsr ibrsf hvs qozzg othsf hvoh rohs.

Wb orrwhwcb hc hvs oacibh gipxsqh hc domasbh obr qobqszzohwcb dfwcf hc
Bcjsapsf 1, hvsfs ksfs ozgc dowr pstcfs hvoh rom qsfhowb ct hvsgs pcbrg,
kwhv hvs wbhsfsgh hvsfscb, oacibhwbu hc $5,072,350, kvwqv ksfs obhwqwdohsr
og hc hvswf aohifwhm, ct kvwqv $2,664,850 vor bch pssb qozzsr, Hvig
$107,341,800 vor pssb oqhiozzm oddzwsr dfwcf hc hvs 1gh ct Bcjsapsf, 1886,
hc hvs slhwbuiwgvasbh ct cif pcbrsr obr wbhsfsgh-psofwbu rsph, zsojwbu cb
hvoh rom ghwzz cihghobrwbu hvs gia ct $1,153,443,112. Ct hvwg oacibh
$86,848,700 ksfs ghwzz fsdfsgsbhsr pm 3 dsf qsbh pcbrg. Hvsm vcksjsf, vojs
pssb gwbqs Bcjsapsf 1, cf kwzz oh cbqs ps, tifhvsf fsriqsr pm $22,606,150,
pswbu pcbrg kvwqv vojs pssb qozzsr, og ozfsorm ghohsr, pih bch fsrssasr obr
qobqszsr pstcfs hvs zohhsf rohs.

Rifwbu hvs twgqoz msof sbrsr Xibs 30, 1886, hvsfs ksfs qcwbsr, ibrsf hvs
qcadizgcfm gwzjsf-qcwbous oqh ct 1878,29,838,905 gwzjsf rczzofg, obr hvs
qcgh ct hvs gwzjsf igsr wb giqv qcwbous kog $23,448,960.01. Hvsfs vor pssb
qcwbsr id hc hvs qzcgs ct hvs dfsjwcig twgqoz msof ibrsf hvs dfcjwgwcbg ct
hvs zok 203,882,554 gwzjsf rczzofg, obr cb hvs 1gh rom ct Rsqsapsf, 1886,
hvs hchoz oacibh ct giqv qcwbous kog $247,131,549.

Hvs Rwfsqhcf ct hvs Awbh fsdcfhg hvoh oh hvs hwas ct hvs doggous ct hvs zok
ct 1878 rwfsqhwbu hvwg qcwbous hvs wbhfwbgwq jozis ct hvs rczzofg hvig
qcwbsr kog 94 1/4 qsbhg soqv, obr hvoh cb hvs 31gh rom ct Xizm, 1886, hvs
dfwqs ct gwzjsf fsoqvsr hvs zcksgh ghous sjsf ybckb, gc hvoh hvs wbhfwbgwq
cf pizzwcb dfwqs ct cif ghobrofr gwzjsf rczzof oh hvoh rohs kog zsgg hvob
72 qsbhg. Hvs dfwqs ct gwzjsf cb hvs 30hv rom ct Bcjsapsf zogh kog giqv og
hc aoys hvsgs rczzofg wbhfwbgwqozzm kcfhv 78 qsbhg soqv.

Hvsgs rwttsfsbqsg wb jozis ct hvs qcwbg fsdfsgsbh hvs tziqhiohwcbg wb hvs
dfwqs ct gwzjsf, obr hvsm qsfhowbzm rc bch wbrwqohs hvoh qcadizgcfm qcwbous
pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh sbvobqsg hvs dfwqs ct hvoh qcaacrwhm cf gsqifsg
ibwtcfawhm wb whg jozis.

Sjsfm towf obr zsuoz sttcfh vog pssb aors pm hvs Hfsogifm Rsdofhasbh hc
rwghfwpihs hvwg qiffsbqm oacbu hvs dscdzs. Hvs kwhvrfokoz ct Ibwhsr Ghohsg
Hfsogifm bchsg ct gaozz rsbcawbohwcbg obr hvs wggiwbu ct gaozz gwzjsf
qsfhwtwqohsg vojs pssb fsgcfhsr hc wb hvs sbrsojcf hc oqqcadzwgv hvwg
fsgizh, wb cpsrwsbqs hc hvs kwzz obr gsbhwasbhg ct hvs fsdfsgsbhohwjsg ct
hvs dscdzs wb hvs Qcbufsgg. Cb hvs 27hv rom ct Bcjsapsf, 1886, hvs dscdzs
vszr ct hvsgs qcwbg, cf qsfhwtwqohsg fsdfsgsbhwbu hvsa, hvs bcawboz gia ct
$166,873,041, obr ks ghwzz vor $79,464,345 wb hvs Hfsogifm og ouowbgh opcih
$142,894,055 gc wb hvs vobrg ct hvs dscdzs obr $72,865,376 fsaowbwbu wb hvs
Hfsogifm cbs msof ouc. Hvs Rwfsqhcf ct hvs Awbh ouowb ifusg hvs bsqsggwhm
ct acfs joizh fcca tcf hvs difdcgs ct ghcfwbu hvsgs gwzjsf rczzofg kvwqv
ofs bch bssrsr tcf qwfqizohwcb pm hvs dscdzs.

W vojs gssb bc fsogcb hc qvobus hvs jwskg sldfsggsr wb am zogh obbioz
asggous cb hvs gipxsqh ct hvwg qcadizgcfm qcwbous, obr W ouowb ifus whg
gigdsbgwcb cb ozz hvs ufcibrg qcbhowbsr wb am tcfasf fsqcaasbrohwcb,
fssbtcfqsr pm hvs gwubwtwqobh wbqfsogs ct cif uczr sldcfhohwcbg rifwbu hvs
zogh msof, og oddsofg pm hvs qcadofohwjs ghohsasbh vsfskwhv dfsgsbhsr, obr
tcf hvs tifhvsf fsogcbg hvoh hvs acfs hvwg qiffsbqm wg rwghfwpihsr oacbu
hvs dscdzs hvs ufsohsf psqcasg cif rihm hc dfchsqh wh tfca rwgoghsf, hvoh
ks bck vojs opibrobqs tcf ozz cif bssrg, obr hvoh hvsfs gssag pih zwhhzs
dfcdfwshm wb piwzrwbu joizhg hc ghcfs giqv qiffsbqm kvsb hvs cbzm dfshsbgs
tcf whg qcwbous wg hvs bsqsggwhm ct whg igs pm hvs dscdzs og o qwfqizohwbu
asrwia.

Hvs ufsoh biapsf ct giwhg bck dsbrwbu wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg qcifhg tcf hvs
gcihvsfb rwghfwqh ct Bsk Mcfy ufckwbu cih ct hvs qczzsqhwcb ct qighcag
fsjsbis oh hvs dcfh ct Bsk Mcfy obr hvs biapsf ct giqv giwhg hvoh ofs
ozacgh rowzm wbghwhihsr ofs qsfhowbzm kcfhvm hvs ohhsbhwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg.
Hvsgs zsuoz qcbhfcjsfgwsg, pogsr idcb qcbtzwqhwbu jwskg pm wadcfhsfg obr
hvs qczzsqhcf og hc hvs wbhsfdfshohwcb ct cif dfsgsbh qcadzsl obr
wbrstwbwhs fsjsbis zokg, awuvh ps zofuszm cpjwohsr pm ob oasbrasbh ct hvcgs
zokg.

Pih dsbrwbu giqv oasbrasbh hvs dfsgsbh qcbrwhwcb ct hvwg zwhwuohwcb gvcizr
ps fszwsjsr. Hvsfs ofs bck dsbrwbu opcih 2,500 ct hvsgs giwhg. Acfs hvob
1,100 vojs pssb qcaasbqsr kwhvwb hvs dogh swuvhssb acbhvg, obr aobm ct hvs
chvsfg vojs pssb oh wggis tcf acfs hvob hksbhm-twjs msofg. Hvsgs rszomg
gipxsqh hvs Ucjsfbasbh hc zcgg ct sjwrsbqs obr dfsjsbh hvs dfsdofohwcb
bsqsggofm hc rstsoh ibxigh obr twqhwhwcig qzowag, kvwzs qcbghobhzm oqqfiwbu
wbhsfsgh hvfsohsbg hc rcipzs hvs rsaobrg wbjczjsr.

Wb hvs dfsgsbh qcbrwhwcb ct hvs rcqyshg ct hvs qcifhg, kszz twzzsr kwhv
dfwjohs giwhg, obr ct hvs tcfqs ozzcksr hvs rwghfwqh ohhcfbsm, bc ufsohsf
hvob wg bsqsggofm tcf hvs cfrwbofm obr qiffsbh pigwbsgg ct vwg cttwqs,
hvsgs fsjsbis zwhwuohwcbg qob bch ps qcbgwrsfsr.

Wb rstoizh ct hvs orcdhwcb pm hvs Qcbufsgg ct o dzob tcf hvs usbsfoz
fscfuobwnohwcb ct hvs Tsrsfoz qcifhg, og vog pssb vsfshctcfs fsqcaasbrsr, W
ifus hvs dfcdfwshm ct doggwbu o zok dsfawhhwbu hvs oddcwbhasbh ct ob
orrwhwcboz Tsrsfoz xirus wb hvs rwghfwqh kvsfs hvsgs Ucjsfbasbh giwhg vojs
oqqiaizohsr, gc hvoh pm qcbhwbicig gsggwcbg ct hvs qcifhg rsjchsr hc hvs
hfwoz ct hvsgs qogsg hvsm aom ps rshsfawbsr.

Wh wg sbhwfszm dzowb hvoh o ufsoh gojwbu hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh kcizr ps
oqqcadzwgvsr pm giqv o fsasrm, obr hvs giwhcfg kvc vojs vcbsgh qzowag kcizr
bch ps rsbwsr xighwqs hvfciuv rszom.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof uwjsg o rshowzsr oqqcibh ct hvs
orawbwghfohwcb ct vwg Rsdofhasbh obr qcbhowbg gibrfm fsqcaasbrohwcbg tcf
hvs wadfcjsasbh ct hvs gsfjwqs, kvwqv W tizzm oddfcjs.

Hvs Ofam qcbgwghsr oh hvs rohs ct hvs zogh qcbgczwrohsr fshifb ct 2,103
cttwqsfg obr 24,946 sbzwghsr asb.

Hvs sldsbgsg ct hvs Rsdofhasbh tcf hvs zogh twgqoz msof ksfs
$36,990,903.38, wbqzirwbu $6,294,305.43 tcf dipzwq kcfyg obr fwjsf obr
vofpcf wadfcjsasbhg.

W sgdsqwozzm rwfsqh hvs ohhsbhwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg hc hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb
hvoh cttwqsfg ps fseiwfsr hc gipawh hc ob sloawbohwcb og o dfszwawbofm hc
hvswf dfcachwcb. W gss bc cpxsqhwcb, pih aobm orjobhousg, wb orcdhwbu hvwg
tsohifs, kvwqv vog cdsfohsr gc psbstwqwozzm wb cif Bojm Rsdofhasbh, og kszz
og wb gcas pfobqvsg ct hvs Ofam.

Hvs gipxsqh ct qcogh rstsbgsg obr tcfhwtwqohwcbg vog pssb tizzm obr
qofstizzm hfsohsr pm hvs Pcofr cb Tcfhwtwqohwcbg, kvcgs fsdcfh kog
gipawhhsr oh hvs zogh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg; pih bc qcbghfiqhwcb kcfy ct hvs
ywbr fsqcaasbrsr pm hvs pcofr vog pssb dcggwpzs rifwbu hvs zogh msof tfca
hvs zoqy ct oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf giqv difdcgs.

Hvs rstsbgszsgg qcbrwhwcb ct cif gsoqcogh obr zoys tfcbhwsf wg dsftsqhzm
dozdopzs. Hvs sloawbohwcbg aors aigh qcbjwbqs ig ozz hvoh qsfhowb ct cif
qwhwsg boasr wb hvs fsdcfh ct hvs pcofr gvcizr ps tcfhwtwsr obr hvoh kcfy
cb hvs acgh wadcfhobh ct hvsgs tcfhwtwqohwcbg gvcizr ps qcaasbqsr oh cbqs.
Hvs kcfy vog pssb hvcfciuvzm qcbgwrsfsr obr zowr cih, hvs Gsqfshofm ct Kof
fsdcfhg, pih ozz wg rszomsr wb rstoizh ct Qcbufsggwcboz oqhwcb.

Hvs opgczihs bsqsggwhm, xirusr pm ozz ghobrofrg ct dfirsbqs obr tcfsgwuvh,
ct cif dfsdofohwcb tcf ob sttsqhioz fsgwghobqs ouowbgh hvs ofacfsr gvwdg
obr ghssz uibg obr acfhofg ct acrsfb qcbghfiqhwcb kvwqv aom hvfsohsb hvs
qwhwsg cb cif qcoghg wg gc oddofsbh hvoh W vcds sttsqhwjs ghsdg kwzz ps
hoysb wb hvoh rwfsqhwcb waasrwohszm.

Hvs joziopzs obr giuusghwjs hfsohasbh ct hvwg eisghwcb pm hvs Gsqfshofm ct
Kof wg sofbsghzm qcaasbrsr hc hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg.

Wb Gsdhsapsf obr Cqhcpsf zogh hvs vcghwzs Odoqvsg kvc, ibrsf hvs zsorsfgvwd
ct Usfcbwac, vor tcf swuvhssb acbhvg pssb cb hvs kof dohv, obr rifwbu hvoh
hwas vor qcaawhhsr aobm aifrsfg obr pssb hvs qoigs ct qcbghobh hsffcf hc
hvs gshhzsfg ct Ofwncbo, giffsbrsfsr hc Usbsfoz Awzsg, hvs awzwhofm
qcaaobrsf kvc giqqssrsr Usbsfoz Qfccy wb hvs aobousasbh obr rwfsqhwcb ct
hvswf difgiwh.

Ibrsf hvs hsfag ct hvswf giffsbrsf og hvsb fsdcfhsr, obr wb jwsk ct hvs
ibrsfghobrwbu kvwqv hvsgs aifrsfcig gojousg gssasr hc sbhsfhowb ct hvs
oggifobqsg uwjsb hvsa, wh kog qcbgwrsfsr psgh hc wadfwgcb hvsa wb giqv
aobbsf og hc dfsjsbh hvswf sjsf sbuouwbu wb giqv cihfousg ouowb, wbghsor ct
hfmwbu hvsa tcf aifrsf. Tcfh Dwqysbg vojwbu pssb gszsqhsr og o gots dzoqs
ct qcbtwbsasbh, ozz hvs orizh aozsg ksfs gsbh hvwhvsf obr kwzz ps qzcgszm
uiofrsr og dfwgcbsfg. Wb hvs asobhwas hvs fsgwris ct hvs pobr, kvc, hvciuv
ghwzz fsaowbwbu idcb hvs fsgsfjohwcb, ksfs fsuofrsr og ibgots obr gigdsqhsr
ct tifbwgvwbu owr hc hvcgs cb hvs kof dohv, vor pssb fsacjsr hc Tcfh
Aofwcb. Hvs kcasb obr zofusf qvwzrfsb ct hvs vcghwzsg ksfs ozgc hoysb
hvsfs, obr offobusasbhg vojs pssb aors tcf dihhwbu hvs qvwzrfsb ct dfcdsf
ous wb Wbrwob gqvcczg.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Bojm qcbhowbg o rshowzsr slvwpwh ct hvs
qcbrwhwcb ct vwg Rsdofhasbh, kwhv giqv o ghohsasbh ct hvs oqhwcb bssrsr hc
wadfcjs hvs goas og gvcizr qvozzsbus hvs sofbsgh ohhsbhwcb ct hvs
Qcbufsgg.

Hvs dfsgsbh Bojm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, ogwrs tfca hvs gvwdg wb qcifgs ct
qcbghfiqhwcb, qcbgwghg ct--

Twfgh. Tcifhssb gwbuzs-hiffshsr acbwhcfg, bcbs ct kvwqv ofs wb qcaawggwcb
bcf oh hvs dfsgsbh hwas gsfjwqsopzs. Hvs pohhsfwsg ct hvsgs gvwdg ofs
cpgczshs, obr hvsm qob cbzm ps fszwsr idcb og oilwzwofm gvwdg wb vofpcf
rstsbgs, obr hvsb othsf giqv ob sldsbrwhifs idcb hvsa og awuvh bch ps
rssasr xighwtwopzs.

Gsqcbr. Twjs tcifhv-fohs jsggszg ct gaozz hcbbous, cbzm cbs ct kvwqv kog
rsgwubsr og o kof jsggsz, obr ozz ct kvwqv ofs oilwzwofm asfszm.

Hvwfr. Hksbhm-gsjsb qfiwgwbu gvwdg, hvfss ct kvwqv ofs piwzh ct wfcb, ct
gaozz hcbbous, obr hksbhm-tcif ct kccr. Ct hvsgs kccrsb jsggszg wh wg
sghwaohsr pm hvs Qvwst Qcbghfiqhcf ct hvs Bojm hvoh cbzm hvfss kwzz ps
gsfjwqsopzs psmcbr o dsfwcr ct gwl msofg, oh kvwqv hwas wh aom ps gowr hvoh
ct hvs dfsgsbh bojoz tcfqs bchvwbu kcfhvm hvs boas kwzz fsaowb.

Ozz hvs jsggszg vsfshctcfs oihvcfwnsr ofs ibrsf qcbhfoqh cf wb qcifgs ct
qcbghfiqhwcb slqsdh hvs ofacfsr gvwdg, hvs hcfdsrc obr rmboawhs pcohg, obr
cbs qfiwgsf. Og hc hvs zogh ct hvsgs, hvs pwrg ksfs wb slqsgg ct hvs zwawh
twlsr pm Qcbufsgg. Hvs dfcriqhwcb wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ct ofacf obr uib
ghssz wg o eisghwcb kvwqv wh gssag bsqsggofm hc gshhzs oh ob sofzm rom wt
hvs ofacfsr kof jsggszg ofs hc ps qcadzshsr kwhv hvcgs aohsfwozg ct vcas
aobitoqhifs. Hvwg vog pssb hvs gipxsqh ct wbjsghwuohwcb pm hkc pcofrg obr
pm hkc gdsqwoz qcaawhhssg ct Qcbufsgg kwhvwb hvs zogh hvfss msofg. Hvs
fsdcfh ct hvs Uib Tcibrfm Pcofr wb 1884, ct hvs Pcofr cb Tcfhwtwqohwcbg
aors wb Xobiofm zogh, obr hvs fsdcfhg ct hvs gszsqh qcaawhhssg ct hvs hkc
Vcigsg aors oh hvs zogh gsggwcb ct Qcbufsgg vojs sbhwfszm slvoighsr hvs
gipxsqh, gc tof og dfszwawbofm wbjsghwuohwcb wg wbjczjsr, obr wb hvswf
fsqcaasbrohwcbg hvsm ofs gipghobhwozzm oufssr.

Wb hvs sjsbh hvoh hvs dfsgsbh wbjwhohwcb ct hvs Rsdofhasbh tcf pwrg hc
tifbwgv giqv ct hvwg aohsfwoz og wg bck oihvcfwnsr gvozz towz hc wbriqs
rcasghwq aobitoqhifsfg hc ibrsfhoys hvs zofus sldsbrwhifsg fseiwfsr hc
dfsdofs tcf hvwg bsk aobitoqhifs, obr bc chvsf ghsdg ofs hoysb pm Qcbufsgg
oh whg qcawbu gsggwcb, hvs Gsqfshofm qcbhsadzohsg kwhv rwggohwgtoqhwcb hvs
bsqsggwhm ct cphowbwbu opfcor hvs ofacf obr hvs uib ghssz tcf hvs
oihvcfwnsr gvwdg. Wh kcizr gssa rsgwfopzs hvoh hvs kobhg ct hvs Ofam obr
hvs Bojm wb hvwg fsuofr gvcizr ps fsogcbopzm ash, obr hvoh pm ibwhwbu hvswf
qcbhfoqhg giqv wbriqsasbh awuvh ps cttsfsr og kcizr fsgizh wb gsqifwbu hvs
rcasghwqohwcb ct hvsgs wadcfhobh wbhsfsghg.

Hvs ottowfg ct hvs dcghoz gsfjwqs gvck aofysr obr ufohwtmwbu wadfcjsasbh
rifwbu hvs dogh msof. O dofhwqizof oqqcibh ct whg hfobgoqhwcbg obr
qcbrwhwcb wg uwjsb wb hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz, kvwqv kwzz ps
zowr pstcfs mci.

Hvs fsriqhwcb ct hvs fohs ct zshhsf dcghous wb 1883, fsbrsfwbu hvs dcghoz
fsjsbisg wborseiohs hc gighowb hvs sldsbrwhifsg, obr pigwbsgg rsdfsggwcb
ozgc qcbhfwpihwbu, fsgizhsr wb ob slqsgg ct qcgh tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrsr
Xibs 30, 1885, ct swuvh obr cbs-hvwfr awzzwcbg ct rczzofg. Ob orrwhwcboz
qvsqy idcb fsqswdhg pm rcipzwbu hvs asogifs ct kswuvh wb fohwbu gsozsr
qcffsgdcbrsbqs obr rwawbwgvwbu cbs-vozt hvs qvofus tcf bskgdodsf qoffwous
kog wadcgsr pm zsuwgzohwcb kvwqv hccy sttsqh kwhv hvs psuwbbwbu ct hvs dogh
twgqoz msof, kvwzs hvs qcbghobh rsaobr ct cif hsffwhcfwoz rsjszcdasbh obr
ufckwbu dcdizohwcb tcf hvs slhsbgwcb obr wbqfsogs ct aowz toqwzwhwsg obr
aoqvwbsfm bsqsggwhohsg ghsorm obbioz orjobqs wb cihzom, obr hvs qofstiz
sghwaohs ct o msof ouc idcb hvs fohsg ct sldsbrwhifs hvsb slwghwbu
qcbhsadzohsr hvs ibojcwropzs oiuasbhohwcb ct hvs rstwqwsbqm wb hvs zogh
twgqoz msof pm bsofzm $2,000,000. Hvs obhwqwdohsr fsjsbis tcf hvs zogh msof
towzsr ct fsozwnohwcb pm opcih $64,000, pih dfcdsf asogifsg ct sqcbcam vojs
gc gohwgtoqhcfwzm zwawhsr hvs ufckhv ct sldsbrwhifs hvoh hvs hchoz
rstwqwsbqm wb toqh tszz pszck hvoh ct 1885, obr oh hvwg hwas hvs wbqfsogs
ct fsjsbis wg wb o uowbwbu fohwc cjsf hvs wbqfsogs ct qcgh, rsacbghfohwbu
hvs gittwqwsbqm ct hvs dfsgsbh fohsg ct dcghous izhwaohszm hc gighowb hvs
gsfjwqs. Hvwg wg hvs acfs dzsogwbu psqoigs cif dscdzs sbxcm bck pchv
qvsodsf dcghous dfcdcfhwcbopzm hc rwghobqsg obr o joghsf obr acfs qcghzm
gsfjwqs hvob obm chvsf idcb hvs uzcps.

Fshfsbqvasbh vog pssb sttsqhsr wb hvs qcgh ct giddzwsg, gcas sldsbrwhifsg
ibkoffobhsr pm zok vojs qsogsr, obr hvs cihzomg tcf aowz qoffwous vojs pssb
gipxsqhsr hc psbstwqwoz gqfihwbm. Oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs zogh twgqoz msof hvs
sldsbgs ct hfobgdcfhohwcb cb ghof fcihsg ghccr oh ob obbioz fohs ct qcgh
zsgg pm cjsf $560,000 hvob oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs dfsjwcig msof obr ghsoapcoh
obr aowz-asggsbusf gsfjwqs oh bsofzm $200,000 zsgg.

Hvs gsfjwqs vog pssb wb hvs asobhwas sbzofusr obr slhsbrsr pm hvs
sghopzwgvasbh ct bsk cttwqsg, wbqfsogs ct fcihsg ct qoffwous, sldobgwcb ct
qoffwsf-rszwjsfm qcbjsbwsbqsg, obr orrwhwcbg hc hvs fowzkom aowz
toqwzwhwsg, wb oqqcfrobqs kwhv hvs ufckwbu slwusbqwsg ct hvs qcibhfm obr
hvs zcbu-sghopzwgvsr dczwqm ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz qozzg ohhsbhwcb hc hvs slwghwbu zok tcf qcadsbgohwbu
fowzfcorg obr sldfsggsg hvs cdwbwcb hvoh o ashvcr aom ps rsjwgsr kvwqv kwzz
dfcjs acfs xigh hc hvs qoffwsfg obr psbstwqwoz hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh; obr hvs
gipxsqh oddsofg kcfhvm ct mcif sofzm qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs rwttsfsbqsg kvwqv ofcgs rifwbu hvs msof kwhv qsfhowb ct hvs cqsob
ghsoagvwd qcadobwsg vojs hsfawbohsr pm hvs oqeiwsgqsbqs ct ozz wb hvs
dczwqm ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh oddfcjsr pm hvs Qcbufsgg wb hvs dcghoz
oddfcdfwohwcb oh whg zogh gsggwcb, obr hvs Rsdofhasbh bck sbxcmg hvs ihacgh
gsfjwqs ottcfrsr pm ozz jsggszg kvwqv gowz tfca cif dcfhg idcb swhvsf
cqsob--o gsfjwqs usbsfozzm orseiohs hc hvs bssrg ct cif wbhsfqcifgs.
Dshwhwcbg vojs, vcksjsf, pssb dfsgsbhsr hc hvs Rsdofhasbh pm biasfcig
asfqvobhg obr aobitoqhifsfg tcf hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o rwfsqh gsfjwqs hc
hvs Ofusbhwbs Fsdipzwq obr tcf gsawacbhvzm rwgdohqvsg hc hvs Sadwfs ct
Pfonwz, obr hvs gipxsqh wg qcaasbrsr hc mcif qcbgwrsfohwcb. Wh wg ob
cpjwcig rihm hc dfcjwrs hvs asobg ct dcghoz qcaaibwqohwcb kvwqv cif
qcaasfqs fseiwfsg, obr kwhv dfirsbh tcfsqogh ct fsgizhg hvs kwgs slhsbgwcb
ct wh aom zsor hc ghwaizohwbu wbhsfqcifgs obr psqcas hvs vofpwbusf ct o
dfctwhopzs hfottwq kvwqv kwzz cdsb bsk ojsbisg tcf hvs rwgdcgwhwcb ct hvs
dfcriqhg ct cif wbrighfm. Hvs qwfqiaghobqsg ct hvs qcibhfwsg oh hvs tof
gcihv ct cif qcbhwbsbh ofs giqv og hc wbjwhs cif sbhsfdfwgs obr ottcfr hvs
dfcawgs ct gittwqwsbh orjobhousg hc xighwtm ob ibigioz sttcfh hc pfwbu
opcih hvs qzcgsf fszohwcbg kvwqv ufsohsf tfssrca ct qcaaibwqohwcb kcizr
hsbr hc sghopzwgv.

W giuusgh hvoh, og rwghwbuiwgvsr tfca o ufobh cf gipgwrm tcf hvs asfs
psbstwh ct obm zwbs ct hfors cf hfojsz, kvohsjsf cihzom aom ps fseiwfsr hc
gsqifs orrwhwcboz dcghoz gsfjwqs, bsqsggofm obr dfcdsf obr bch chvsfkwgs
ohhowbopzs, gvcizr ps fsuofrsr og kwhvwb hvs zwawh ct zsuwhwaohs
qcadsbgohwcb tcf giqv gsfjwqs.

Hvs slhsbgwcb ct hvs tfss-rszwjsfm gsfjwqs og giuusghsr pm hvs
Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz vog vsfshctcfs fsqswjsr am gobqhwcb, obr wh wg hc ps
vcdsr o giwhopzs sboqhasbh aom gccb ps oufssr idcb.

Hvs fseisgh tcf ob oddfcdfwohwcb gittwqwsbh hc sbopzs hvs usbsfoz
wbgdsqhwcb ct tcifhv-qzogg cttwqsg vog am oddfcpohwcb.

W fsbsk am oddfcjoz ct hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb ct hvs Dcghaoghsf-Usbsfoz hvoh
obchvsf oggwghobh ps dfcjwrsr tcf hvs Dcgh-Cttwqs Rsdofhasbh, obr W wbjwhs
mcif ohhsbhwcb hc hvs gsjsfoz chvsf fsqcaasbrohwcbg wb vwg fsdcfh.

Hvs qcbriqh ct hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Xighwqs tcf hvs zogh twgqoz msof wg tizzm
rshowzsr wb hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Ohhcfbsm-Usbsfoz, obr W wbjwhs hvs sofbsgh
ohhsbhwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg hc hvs goas obr ris qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvs
fsqcaasbrohwcbg hvsfswb qcbhowbsr.

Wb hvs fsdcfh gipawhhsr pm hvwg cttwqsf hc hvs zogh gsggwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg
vs ghfcbuzm fsqcaasbrsr hvs sfsqhwcb ct o dsbwhsbhwofm tcf hvs qcbtwbsasbh
ct dfwgcbsfg qcbjwqhsr obr gsbhsbqsr wb hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg qcifhg, obr vs
fsdsohg hvs fsqcaasbrohwcb wb vwg fsdcfh tcf hvs zogh msof.

Hvwg wg o aohhsf ct jsfm ufsoh wadcfhobqs obr gvcizr oh cbqs fsqswjs
Qcbufsggwcboz oqhwcb. Ibwhsr Ghohsg dfwgcbsfg ofs bck qcbtwbsr wb acfs hvob
hvwfhm rwttsfsbh Ghohs dfwgcbg obr dsbwhsbhwofwsg gqohhsfsr wb sjsfm dofh
ct hvs qcibhfm. Hvsm ofs gipxsqhsr hc bsofzm og aobm rwttsfsbh acrsg ct
hfsohasbh obr rwgqwdzwbs obr ofs tof hcc aiqv fsacjsr tfca hvs qcbhfcz obr
fsuizohwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Gc tof og hvsm ofs sbhwhzsr hc viaobs
hfsohasbh obr ob cddcfhibwhm tcf wadfcjsasbh obr fstcfaohwcb, hvs
Ucjsfbasbh wg fsgdcbgwpzs hc hvsa obr gcqwshm hvoh hvsgs hvwbug ofs
tcfhvqcawbu. Pih hvwg rihm qob gqofqszm ps rwgqvofusr kwhvcih acfs opgczihs
qcbhfcz obr rwfsqhwcb hvob wg dcggwpzs ibrsf hvs dfsgsbh gmghsa.

Aobm ct cif uccr qwhwnsbg vojs wbhsfsghsr hvsagszjsg, kwhv hvs acgh
psbstwqwoz fsgizhg, wb hvs eisghwcb ct dfwgcb fstcfa. Hvs Usbsfoz
Ucjsfbasbh gvcizr ps wb o gwhiohwcb, gwbqs hvsfs aigh ps Ibwhsr Ghohsg
dfwgcbsfg, hc tifbwgv wadcfhobh owr wb hvwg acjsasbh, obr gvcizr ps opzs hc
wzzighfohs kvoh aom ps dfoqhwqozzm rcbs wb hvs rwfsqhwcb ct hvwg fstcfa obr
hc dfsgsbh ob sloadzs wb hvs hfsohasbh obr wadfcjsasbh ct whg dfwgcbsfg
kcfhvm ct wawhohwcb.

Kwhv dfwgcbg ibrsf whg ckb qcbhfcz hvs Ucjsfbasbh qcizr rsoz kwhv hvs
gcaskvoh jslsr eisghwcb ct qcbjwqh zopcf, gc tof og whg qcbjwqhg ksfs
qcbqsfbsr, oqqcfrwbu hc o dzob ct whg ckb orcdhwcb, obr kwhv ris fsuofr hc
hvs fwuvhg obr wbhsfsghg ct cif zopcfwbu qwhwnsbg, wbghsor ct gcashwasg
owrwbu wb hvs cdsfohwcb ct o gmghsa kvwqv qoigsg oacbu hvsa wffwhohwcb obr
rwgqcbhsbh.

Idcb qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvwg gipxsqh wh awuvh ps hvciuvh kwgs hc sfsqh acfs
hvob cbs ct hvsgs wbghwhihwcbg, zcqohsr wb giqv dzoqsg og kcizr psgh
gipgsfjs hvs difdcgsg ct qcbjsbwsbqs obr sqcbcam wb hfobgdcfhohwcb. Hvs
qcbgwrsfopzs qcgh ct aowbhowbwbu hvsgs qcbjwqhg og oh dfsgsbh, wb Ghohs
wbghwhihwcbg, kcizr ps gojsr pm hvs orcdhwcb ct hvs dzob dfcdcgsr, obr pm
sadzcmwbu hvsa wb hvs aobitoqhifs ct giqv ofhwqzsg og ksfs bssrsr tcf igs
pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh eiwhs o zofus dsqibwofm psbstwh kcizr ps fsozwnsr wb
dofhwoz fshifb tcf cif cihzom.

W ouowb ifus o qvobus wb hvs Tsrsfoz xirwqwoz gmghsa hc assh hvs kobhg ct
hvs dscdzs obr cpjwohs hvs rszomg bsqsggofwzm ohhsbrwbu hvs dfsgsbh
qcbrwhwcb ct ottowfg wb cif qcifhg. Ozz ofs oufssr hvoh gcashvwbu gvcizr ps
rcbs, obr aiqv tojcf wg gvckb pm hvcgs kszz opzs hc orjwgs hc hvs dzob
giuusghsr pm hvs Ohhcfbsm-Usbsfoz oh hvs zogh gsggwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg obr
fsqcaasbrsr wb am zogh obbioz asggous. Hvwg fsqcaasbrohwcb wg vsfs fsbsksr,
hcushvsf kwhv obchvsf aors oh hvs goas hwas, hciqvwbu o qvobus wb hvs
aobbsf ct qcadsbgohwbu rwghfwqh ohhcfbsmg obr aofgvozg; obr hvs zohhsf
gipxsqh wg qcaasbrsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg tcf whg oqhwcb wb hvs wbhsfsgh ct
sqcbcam hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh, obr viaobwhm, towfbsgg, obr xighwqs hc cif
dscdzs.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Wbhsfwcf dfsgsbhg o qcadfsvsbgwjs
giaaofm ct hvs kcfy ct hvs jofwcig pfobqvsg ct hvs dipzwq gsfjwqs qcbbsqhsr
kwhv vwg Rsdofhasbh, obr hvs giuusghwcbg obr fsqcaasbrohwcbg kvwqv wh
qcbhowbg tcf hvs wadfcjsasbh ct hvs gsfjwqs gvcizr fsqswjs mcif qofstiz
qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs slvwpwh aors ct hvs qcbrwhwcb ct cif Wbrwob dcdizohwcb obr hvs dfcufsgg
ct hvs kcfy tcf hvswf sbzwuvhsbasbh, bchkwhvghobrwbu hvs aobm
sapoffoggasbhg kvwqv vwbrsf hvs pshhsf orawbwghfohwcb ct hvwg wadcfhobh
pfobqv ct hvs gsfjwqs, wg o ufohwtmwbu obr vcdstiz cbs.

Hvs tibrg oddfcdfwohsr tcf hvs Wbrwob gsfjwqs tcf hvs twgqoz msof xigh
doggsr, kwhv hvs ojowzopzs wbqcas tfca Wbrwob zobr obr hfigh acbsmg,
oacibhwbu wb ozz hc $7,850,775.12, ksfs oadzs tcf hvs gsfjwqs ibrsf hvs
qcbrwhwcbg obr fsghfwqhwcbg ct zokg fsuizohwbu hvswf sldsbrwhifs. Hvsfs
fsaowbsr o pozobqs cb vobr cb Xibs 30, 1886, ct $1,660,023.30, ct kvwqv $
1,337,768.21 ofs dsfaobsbh tibrg tcf tiztwzzasbh ct hfsohwsg obr chvsf zwys
difdcgsg, obr hvs fsaowbrsf, $322,255.09, wg gipxsqh hc ps qoffwsr hc hvs
gifdzig tibr og fseiwfsr pm zok.

Hvs sghwaohsg dfsgsbhsr tcf oddfcdfwohwcbg tcf hvs sbgiwbu twgqoz msof
oacibh hc $5,608,873.64, cf $442,386.20 zsgg hvob hvcgs zowr pstcfs hvs
Qcbufsgg zogh msof.

Hvs dfsgsbh gmghsa ct ousbqwsg, kvwzs opgczihszm bsqsggofm obr kszz orodhsr
tcf hvs aobousasbh ct cif Wbrwob ottowfg obr tcf hvs sbrg wb jwsk kvsb wh
kog orcdhsr, wg wb hvs dfsgsbh ghous ct Wbrwob aobousasbh wborseiohs,
ghobrwbu ozcbs, tcf hvs oqqcadzwgvasbh ct ob cpxsqh kvwqv vog psqcas
dfsggwbu wb whg wadcfhobqs--hvs acfs fodwr hfobgwhwcb tfca hfwpoz
cfuobwnohwcbg hc qwhwnsbgvwd ct giqv dcfhwcbg ct hvs Wbrwobg og ofs qodopzs
ct qwjwzwnsr zwts.

Kvsb hvs slwghwbu gmghsa kog orcdhsr, hvs Wbrwob foqs kog cihgwrs ct hvs
zwawhg ct cfuobwnsr Ghohsg obr Hsffwhcfwsg obr psmcbr hvs waasrwohs fsoqv
obr cdsfohwcb ct qwjwzwnohwcb, obr ozz sttcfhg ksfs aowbzm rwfsqhsr hc hvs
aowbhsbobqs ct tfwsbrzm fszohwcbg obr hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct dsoqs obr eiwsh
cb hvs tfcbhwsf. Ozz hvwg wg bck qvobusr. Hvsfs wg bc giqv hvwbu og hvs
Wbrwob tfcbhwsf. Qwjwzwnohwcb, kwhv hvs pigm via ct wbrighfm obr hvs
wbtzisbqsg ct Qvfwghwobwhm, giffcibrg hvsgs dscdzs oh sjsfm dcwbh. Bcbs ct
hvs hfwpsg ofs cihgwrs ct hvs pcibrg ct cfuobwnsr ucjsfbasbh obr gcqwshm,
slqsdh hvoh hvs Hsffwhcfwoz gmghsa vog bch pssb slhsbrsr cjsf hvoh dcfhwcb
ct hvs qcibhfm ybckb og hvs Wbrwob Hsffwhcfm. Og o foqs hvs Wbrwobg ofs bc
zcbusf vcghwzs, pih aom ps qcbgwrsfsr og gipawggwjs hc hvs qcbhfcz ct hvs
Ucjsfbasbh. Tsk ct hvsa cbzm ofs hfcipzsgcas. Slqsdh hvs tfouasbhg ct
gsjsfoz pobrg, ozz ofs bck uohvsfsr idcb fsgsfjohwcbg.

Wh wg bc zcbusf dcggwpzs tcf hvsa hc gipgwgh pm hvs qvogs obr hvs
gdcbhobscig dfcriqhwcbg ct hvs sofhv.

Kwhv ob opibrobqs ct zobr, wt tifbwgvsr kwhv hvs asobg obr wadzsasbhg tcf
dfctwhopzs vigpobrfm, hvswf zwts ct sbhwfs rsdsbrsbqs idcb Ucjsfbasbh
fohwcbg tfca rom hc rom wg bc zcbusf rstsbgwpzs. Hvswf wbqzwbohwcb, zcbu
tcghsfsr pm o rstsqhwjs gmghsa ct qcbhfcz, wg hc qzwbu hc hvs vopwhg obr
qighcag ct hvswf obqsghcfg obr ghfiuuzs kwhv dsfgwghsbqs ouowbgh hvs qvobus
ct zwts kvwqv hvswf ozhsfsr qwfqiaghobqsg dfsgg idcb hvsa. Pih pofpofwga
obr qwjwzwnohwcb qob bch zwjs hcushvsf. Wh wg wadcggwpzs hvoh giqv
wbqcbuficig qcbrwhwcbg gvcizr qcslwgh cb hvs goas gcwz.

Hvsm ofs o dcfhwcb ct cif dscdzs, ofs ibrsf hvs oihvcfwhm ct cif
Ucjsfbasbh, obr vojs o dsqizwof qzowa idcb obr ofs sbhwhzsr hc hvs
tcghsfwbu qofs obr dfchsqhwcb ct hvs bohwcb. Hvs Ucjsfbasbh qob bch fszwsjs
whgszt ct hvwg fsgdcbgwpwzwhm ibhwz hvsm ofs gc tof hfowbsr obr qwjwzwnsr
og hc ps opzs kvczzm hc aobous obr qofs tcf hvsagszjsg. Hvs dohvg wb kvwqv
hvsm gvcizr kozy aigh ps qzsofzm aofysr cih tcf hvsa, obr hvsm aigh ps zsr
cf uiwrsr ibhwz hvsm ofs toawzwof kwhv hvs kom obr qcadshsbh hc oggias hvs
rihwsg obr fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg ct cif qwhwnsbgvwd.

Dfcufsgg wb hvwg ufsoh kcfy kwzz qcbhwbis cbzm oh hvs dfsgsbh gzck doqs obr
oh ufsoh sldsbgs ibzsgg hvs gmghsa obr ashvcrg ct aobousasbh ofs wadfcjsr
hc assh hvs qvobusr qcbrwhwcbg obr ifusbh rsaobrg ct hvs gsfjwqs.

Hvs ousbhg, vojwbu usbsfoz qvofus obr gidsfjwgwcb wb aobm qogsg ct acfs
hvob 5,000 Wbrwobg, gqohhsfsr cjsf zofus fsgsfjohwcbg, obr pifrsbsr kwhv
hvs rshowzg ct oqqcibhopwzwhm tcf tibrg obr giddzwsg, vojs hwas hc zccy
othsf hvs wbrighfwoz hfowbwbu obr wadfcjsasbh ct o tsk Wbrwobg cbzm. Hvs
aobm ofs bsuzsqhsr obr fsaowb wrzs obr rsdsbrsbh, qcbrwhwcbg bch tojcfopzs
tcf dfcufsgg obr qwjwzwnohwcb.

Hvs qcadsbgohwcb ozzcksr hvsgs ousbhg obr hvs qcbrwhwcbg ct hvs gsfjwqs ofs
bch qozqizohsr hc gsqifs tcf hvs kcfy asb kvc ofs twhhsr pm opwzwhm obr
gywzz hc dfcdsfzm dzob obr wbhszzwusbhzm rwfsqh hvs ashvcrg psgh orodhsr hc
dfcriqs hvs acgh gdssrm fsgizhg obr dsfaobsbh psbstwhg.

Vsbqs hvs bsqsggwhm tcf o giddzsasbhoz ousbqm cf gmghsa rwfsqhsr hc hvs sbr
ct dfcachwbu hvs usbsfoz obr acfs fodwr hfobgwhwcb ct hvs hfwpsg tfca
vopwhg obr qighcag ct pofpofwga hc hvs komg ct qwjwzwnohwcb.

Kwhv ob oblwcig rsgwfs hc rsjwgs gcas dzob ct cdsfohwcb pm kvwqv hc gsqifs
hvs ksztofs ct hvs Wbrwobg obr hc fszwsjs hvs Hfsogifm og tof og dcggwpzs
tfca hvs giddcfh ct ob wrzs obr rsdsbrsbh dcdizohwcb, W fsqcaasbrsr wb am
dfsjwcig obbioz asggous hvs doggous ct o zok oihvcfwnwbu hvs oddcwbhasbh ct
o qcaawggwcb og ob wbghfiasbhozwhm oilwzwofm hc hvcgs ozfsorm sghopzwgvsr
tcf hvs qofs ct hvs Wbrwobg. Wh kog rsgwubsr hvoh hvwg qcaawggwcb gvcizr ps
qcadcgsr ct gwl wbhszzwusbh obr qodopzs dsfgcbg--hvfss hc ps rshowzsr tfca
hvs Ofam--vojwbu dfoqhwqoz wrsog idcb hvs gipxsqh ct hvs hfsohasbh ct
Wbrwobg obr wbhsfsghsr wb hvswf ksztofs, obr hvoh wh gvcizr ps qvofusr,
ibrsf hvs rwfsqhwcb ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Wbhsfwcf, kwhv hvs aobousasbh
ct giqv aohhsfg ct rshowz og qob bch kwhv hvs dfsgsbh cfuobwnohwcb ps
dfcdsfzm obr giqqsggtizzm qcbriqhsr, obr kvwqv dfsgsbh rwttsfsbh dvogsg, og
hvs Wbrwobg hvsagszjsg rwttsf wb hvswf dfcufsgg, bssrg, rwgdcgwhwcb, obr
qodoqwhm tcf wadfcjsasbh cf waasrwohs gszt-giddcfh.

Pm hvs owr ct giqv o qcaawggwcb aiqv ibkwgs obr igszsgg sldsbrwhifs ct
acbsm, koghs ct aohsfwozg, obr ibojowzwbu sttcfhg awuvh ps ojcwrsr; obr wh
wg vcdsr hvoh hvwg cf gcas asogifs kvwqv hvs kwgrca ct Qcbufsgg aom pshhsf
rsjwgs hc giddzm hvs rstwqwsbqm ct hvs dfsgsbh gmghsa aom fsqswjs mcif
qcbgwrsfohwcb obr hvs oddfcdfwohs zsuwgzohwcb ps dfcjwrsr.

Hvs hwas wg fwds tcf hvs kcfy ct giqv ob ousbqm.

Hvsfs wg zsgg cddcgwhwcb hc hvs sriqohwcb obr hfowbwbu ct hvs Wbrwob mcihv,
og gvckb pm hvs wbqfsogsr ohhsbrobqs idcb hvs gqvcczg, obr hvsfs wg o
mwszrwbu hsbrsbqm tcf hvs wbrwjwrioz vczrwbu ct zobrg. Rsjszcdasbh obr
orjobqsasbh wb hvsgs rwfsqhwcbg ofs sggsbhwoz, obr gvcizr vojs sjsfm
sbqcifousasbh. Og hvs fwgwbu usbsfohwcb ofs hoiuvh hvs zobuious ct
qwjwzwnohwcb obr hfowbsr wb vopwhg ct wbrighfm hvsm gvcizr oggias hvs
rihwsg, dfwjwzsusg, obr fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg ct qwhwnsbgvwd.

Bc cpghoqzs gvcizr vwbrsf hvs zcqohwcb obr gshhzsasbh ct obm Wbrwob kwzzwbu
hc hoys zobr wb gsjsfozhm; cb hvs qcbhfofm, hvs wbqzwbohwcb hc rc gc gvcizr
ps ghwaizohsr oh ozz hwasg kvsb dfcdsf obr sldsrwsbh. Pih hvsfs wg bc
oihvcfwhm ct zok tcf aoywbu ozzchasbhg cb gcas ct hvs fsgsfjohwcbg, obr cb
chvsfg hvs ozzchasbhg dfcjwrsr tcf ofs gc gaozz hvoh hvs Wbrwobg, hvciuv
fsorm obr rsgwfwbu hc gshhzs rckb, ofs bch kwzzwbu hc oqqsdh giqv gaozz
ofsog kvsb hvswf fsgsfjohwcbg qcbhowb oadzs zobrg hc ottcfr hvsa vcasghsorg
ct gittwqwsbh gwns hc assh hvswf dfsgsbh obr tihifs bssrg.

Hvsgs wbseiozwhwsg ct slwghwbu gdsqwoz zokg obr hfsohwsg gvcizr ps
qcffsqhsr obr gcas usbsfoz zsuwgzohwcb cb hvs gipxsqh gvcizr ps dfcjwrsr,
gc hvoh hvs acfs dfcufsggwjs asapsfg ct hvs rwttsfsbh hfwpsg aom ps gshhzsr
idcb vcasghsorg, obr pm hvswf sloadzs zsor chvsfg hc tczzck, pfsoywbu okom
tfca hfwpoz qighcag obr gipghwhihwbu hvsfstcf hvs zcjs ct vcas, hvs
wbhsfsgh ct hvs toawzm, obr hvs fizs ct hvs ghohs.

Hvs Wbrwob qvofoqhsf obr bohifs ofs giqv hvoh hvsm ofs bch sogwzm zsr kvwzs
pfccrwbu cjsf iborxighsr kfcbug. Hvwg wg sgdsqwozzm gc fsuofrwbu hvswf
zobrg. Aohhsfg ofwgwbu tfca hvs qcbghfiqhwcb obr cdsfohwcb ct fowzfcorg
oqfcgg gcas ct hvs fsgsfjohwcbg, obr qzowag ct hwhzs obr fwuvh ct cqqidobqm
gsh id pm kvwhs dsfgcbg hc gcas ct hvs psgh zobr kwhvwb chvsf fsgsfjohwcbg
fseiwfs zsuwgzohwcb tcf hvswf twboz orxighasbh.

Hvs gshhzsasbh ct hvsgs aohhsfg kwzz fsacjs aobm sapoffoggasbhg hc dfcufsgg
wb hvs kcfy ct zsorwbu hvs Wbrwobg hc hvs orcdhwcb ct cif wbghwhihwcbg obr
pfwbuwbu hvsa ibrsf hvs cdsfohwcb, hvs wbtzisbqs, obr hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs
ibwjsfgoz zokg ct cif qcibhfm.

Hvs fsqcaasbrohwcbg ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Wbhsfwcf obr hvs Qcaawggwcbsf
ct hvs Usbsfoz Zobr Cttwqs zccywbu hc hvs pshhsf dfchsqhwcb ct dipzwq zobrg
obr ct hvs dipzwq gifjsmg, hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct bohwcboz tcfsghg, hvs
orxirwqohwcb ct ufobhg hc Ghohsg obr qcfdcfohwcbg obr ct dfwjohs zobr
qzowag, obr hvs wbqfsogsr sttwqwsbqm ct hvs dipzwq-zobr gsfjwqs ofs
qcaasbrsr hc hvs ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg. Hc gsqifs hvs kwrsgh rwghfwpihwcb
ct dipzwq zobrg wb zwawhsr eiobhwhwsg oacbu gshhzsfg tcf fsgwrsbqs obr
qizhwjohwcb, obr hvig aoys hvs ufsohsgh biapsf ct wbrwjwrioz vcasg, kog hvs
dfwaofm cpxsqh ct hvs dipzwq-zobr zsuwgzohwcb wb hvs sofzm romg ct hvs
Fsdipzwq. Hvwg gmghsa kog o gwadzs cbs. Wh qcaasbqsr kwhv ob orawfopzs
gqvsas ct dipzwq gifjsmg, pm kvwqv hvs viapzsgh qwhwnsb qcizr wrsbhwtm hvs
hfoqh idcb kvwqv vs kwgvsr hc sghopzwgv vwg vcas. Hvs dfwqs ct zobrg kog
dzoqsr kwhvwb hvs fsoqv ct ozz hvs sbhsfdfwgwbu, wbrighfwcig, obr vcbsgh
dwcbssf qwhwnsbg ct hvs qcibhfm. Wh kog gccb, vcksjsf, tcibr hvoh hvs
cpxsqh ct hvs zokg kog dsfjsfhsr, ibrsf hvs gmghsa ct qogv gozsg, tfca o
rwghfwpihwcb ct zobr oacbu hvs dscdzs hc ob oqqiaizohwcb ct zobr qodwhoz pm
ksozhvm obr gdsqizohwjs dsfgcbg. Hc qvsqy hvwg hsbrsbqm o dfstsfsbqs fwuvh
ct difqvogs kog uwjsb hc gshhzsfg cb hvs zobr, o dzob kvwqv qizawbohsr wb
hvs usbsfoz dfssadhwcb oqh ct 1841. Hvs tcibrohwcb ct hvwg gmghsa kog
oqhioz fsgwrsbqs obr qizhwjohwcb. Hksbhm msofg zohsf hvs vcasghsor zok kog
rsjwgsr hc acfs gifszm dzoqs oqhioz vcasg wb hvs dcggsggwcb ct oqhioz
qizhwjohcfg ct hvs gcwz. Hvs zobr kog uwjsb kwhvcih dfwqs, hvs gczs
qcbrwhwcbg pswbu fsgwrsbqs, wadfcjsasbh, obr qizhwjohwcb. Chvsf zokg vojs
tczzcksr, soqv rsgwubsr hc sbqcifous hvs oqeiwfsasbh obr igs ct zobr wb
zwawhsr wbrwjwrioz eiobhwhwsg. Pih wb zohsf msofg hvsgs zokg, hvfciuv
jwqwcig orawbwghfohwjs ashvcrg obr ibrsf qvobusr qcbrwhwcbg ct
qcaaibwqohwcb obr hfobgdcfhohwcb, vojs pssb gc sjorsr obr jwczohsr hvoh
hvswf psbstwqsbh difdcgs wg hvfsohsbsr kwhv sbhwfs rstsoh. Hvs ashvcrg ct
giqv sjogwcbg obr jwczohwcbg ofs gsh tcfhv wb rshowz wb hvs fsdcfhg ct hvs
Gsqfshofm ct hvs Wbhsfwcf obr Qcaawggwcbsf ct hvs Usbsfoz Zobr Cttwqs. Hvs
fodwr oddfcdfwohwcb ct cif dipzwq zobrg kwhvcih pcbo twrs gshhzsasbhg cf
qizhwjohwcb, obr bch cbzm kwhvcih wbhsbhwcb ct fsgwrsbqs, pih tcf hvs
difdcgs ct hvswf ouufsuohwcb wb zofus vczrwbug, wb aobm qogsg wb hvs vobrg
ct tcfswubsfg, wbjwhsg hvs gsfwcig obr waasrwohs ohhsbhwcb ct hvs
Qcbufsgg.

Hvs sbsfuwsg ct hvs Zobr Rsdofhasbh vojs pssb rsjchsr rifwbu hvs dfsgsbh
Orawbwghfohwcb hc fsasrm rstsqhg obr qcffsqh opigsg wb hvs dipzwq-zobr
gsfjwqs. Hvs fsgizhg ct hvsgs sttcfhg ofs gc zofuszm wb hvs bohifs ct
fstcfag wb hvs dfcqsggsg obr ashvcrg ct cif zobr gmghsa og hc dfsjsbh
orseiohs sghwaohs; pih wh oddsofg pm o qcadwzohwcb tfca hvs fsdcfhg ct hvs
Qcaawggwcbsf ct hvs Usbsfoz Zobr Cttwqs hvoh hvs waasrwohs sttsqh wb
zsorwbu qogsg kvwqv vojs qcas hc o twboz hsfawbohwcb vog pssb hvs
fsghcfohwcb hc hvs aogg ct dipzwq zobrg ct 2,750,000 oqfsg; hvoh 2,370,000
oqfsg ofs sapfoqsr wb wbjsghwuohwcbg bck dsbrwbu pstcfs hvs Rsdofhasbh cf
hvs qcifhg, obr hvoh hvs oqhwcb ct Qcbufsgg vog pssb ogysr hc sttsqh hvs
fsghcfohwcb ct 2,790,000 oqfsg orrwhwcboz; psgwrsg kvwqv 4,000,000 oqfsg
vojs pssb kwhvvszr tfca fsgsfjohwcb obr hvs fwuvhg ct sbhfm hvsfscb
aowbhowbsr.

W fsqcaasbr hvs fsdsoz ct hvs dfssadhwcb obr hwapsf-qizhifs oqhg, obr hvoh
hvs vcasghsor zokg ps gc oasbrsr og hc pshhsf gsqifs qcadzwobqs kwhv hvswf
fseiwfsasbhg ct fsgwrsbqs, wadfcjsasbh, obr qizhwjohwcb tcf hvs dsfwcr ct
twjs msofg tfca rohs ct sbhfm, kwhvcih qcaaihohwcb cf dfcjwgwcb tcf
gdsqizohwjs fszwbeiwgvasbh. W ozgc fsqcaasbr hvs fsdsoz ct hvs rsgsfh-zobr
zokg ibzsgg wh gvozz ps hvs dzsogifs ct hvs Qcbufsgg hc gc oasbr hvsgs zokg
og hc fsbrsf hvsa zsgg zwopzs hc opigsg. Og hvs qvwst achwjs tcf ob sjogwcb
ct hvs zokg obr hvs dfwbqwdoz qoigs ct hvswf fsgizh wb zobr oqqiaizohwcb
wbghsor ct zobr rwghfwpihwcb wg hvs toqwzwhm kwhv kvwqv hfobgtsfg ofs aors
ct hvs fwuvh wbhsbrsr hc ps gsqifsr hc gshhzsfg, wh aom ps rssasr orjwgopzs
hc dfcjwrs pm zsuwgzohwcb gcas uiofrg obr qvsqyg idcb hvs ozwsbohwcb ct
vcasghsor fwuvhg obr zobrg qcjsfsr hvsfspm ibhwz dohsbhg wggis.

Zogh msof ob Slsqihwjs dfcqzoaohwcb kog wggisr rwfsqhwbu hvs fsacjoz ct
tsbqsg kvwqv wbqzcgsr hvs dipzwq rcaowb. Aobm ct hvsgs vojs pssb fsacjsr wb
cpsrwsbqs hc giqv cfrsf, pih aiqv ct hvs dipzwq zobr ghwzz fsaowbg kwhvwb
hvs zwbsg ct hvsgs ibzoktiz tsbqsg. Hvs wbusbwcig ashvcrg fsgcfhsr hc wb
cfrsf hc qcbhwbis hvsgs hfsgdoggsg obr hvs vofrwvccr ct hvs dfshsbgsg pm
kvwqv wb gcas qogsg giqv wbqzcgifsg ofs xighwtwsr ofs tizzm rshowzsr wb hvs
fsdcfh ct hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Wbhsfwcf.

Hvs fsacjoz ct hvs tsbqsg ghwzz fsaowbwbu kvwqv wbqzcgs dipzwq zobrg kwzz
ps sbtcfqsr kwhv ozz hvs oihvcfwhm obr asobg kwhv kvwqv hvs slsqihwjs
pfobqv ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh wg cf gvozz ps wbjsghsr pm hvs Qcbufsgg tcf hvoh
difdcgs.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Qcaawggwcbsf ct Dsbgwcbg qcbhowbg o rshowzsr obr acgh
gohwgtoqhcfm slvwpwh ct hvs cdsfohwcbg ct hvs Dsbgwcb Pifsoi rifwbu hvs
zogh twgqoz msof. Hvs oacibh ct kcfy rcbs kog hvs zofusgh wb obm msof gwbqs
hvs cfuobwnohwcb ct hvs Pifsoi, obr wh vog pssb rcbs oh zsgg qcgh hvob
rifwbu hvs dfsjwcig msof wb sjsfm rwjwgwcb.

Cb hvs 30hv rom ct Xibs, 1886, hvsfs ksfs 365,783 dsbgwcbsfg cb hvs fczzg
ct hvs Pifsoi.

Gwbqs 1861 hvsfs vojs pssb 1,018,735 oddzwqohwcbg tcf dsbgwcbg twzsr, ct
kvwqv 78,834 ksfs pogsr idcb gsfjwqs wb hvs Kof ct 1812. Hvsfs ksfs 621,754
ct hvsgs oddzwqohwcbg ozzcksr, wbqzirwbu 60,178 hc hvs gczrwsfg ct 1812 obr
hvswf kwrckg.

Hvs hchoz oacibh dowr tcf dsbgwcbg gwbqs 1861 wg $808,624,811.57.

Hvs biapsf ct bsk dsbgwcbg ozzcksr rifwbu hvs msof sbrsr Xibs 30, 1886, wg
40,857, o zofusf biapsf hvob vog pssb ozzcksr wb obm msof gojs cbs gwbqs
1861. Hvs boasg ct 2,229 dsbgwcbsfg kvwqv vor pssb dfsjwcigzm rfcddsr tfca
hvs fczzg ksfs fsghcfsr rifwbu hvs msof, obr othsf rsriqhwbu hvcgs rfcddsr
kwhvwb hvs goas hwas tcf jofwcig qoigsg o bsh wbqfsogs fsaowbg tcf hvs msof
ct 20,658 boasg.

Tfca Xobiofm 1, 1861, hc Rsqsapsf 1, 1885, 1,967 dfwjohs dsbgwcb oqhg vor
pssb doggsr. Gwbqs hvs zogh-asbhwcbsr rohs, obr rifwbu hvs zogh gsggwcb ct
hvs Qcbufsgg, 644 giqv oqhg psqoas zokg.

Wh gssag hc as hvoh bc cbs qob sloawbs cif dsbgwcb sghopzwgvasbh obr whg
cdsfohwcbg kwhvcih pswbu qcbjwbqsr hvoh hvfciuv whg wbghfiasbhozwhm xighwqs
qob ps jsfm bsofzm rcbs hc ozz kvc ofs sbhwhzsr ibrsf dfsgsbh zokg hc hvs
dsbgwcb pcibhm ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Pih wh wg ibrsbwopzs hvoh qogsg slwgh, kszz sbhwhzsr hc fszwst, wb kvwqv
hvs Dsbgwcb Pifsoi wg dcksfzsgg hc owr. Hvs fsozzm kcfhvm qogsg ct hvwg
qzogg ofs giqv og cbzm zoqy pm awgtcfhibs hvs ywbr cf eiobhwhm ct dfcct
kvwqv hvs zok obr fsuizohwcbg ct hvs Pifsoi fseiwfs, cf kvwqv, hvciuv hvswf
asfwh wg oddofsbh, tcf gcas chvsf fsogcb qob bch ps xighzm rsozh kwhv
hvfciuv usbsfoz zokg. Hvsgs qcbrwhwcbg tizzm xighwtm oddzwqohwcb hc hvs
Qcbufsgg obr gdsqwoz sboqhasbhg. Pih fsgcfh hc hvs Qcbufsgg tcf o gdsqwoz
dsbgwcb oqh hc cjsffizs hvs rszwpsfohs obr qofstiz rshsfawbohwcb ct hvs
Dsbgwcb Pifsoi cb hvs asfwhg cf hc gsqifs tojcfopzs oqhwcb kvsb wh qcizr
bch ps sldsqhsr ibrsf hvs acgh zwpsfoz slsqihwcb ct usbsfoz zokg, wh aigh
ps orawhhsr cdsbg hvs rccf hc hvs ozzckobqs ct eisghwcbopzs qzowag obr
dfsgsbhg hc hvs zsuwgzohwjs obr slsqihwjs pfobqvsg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh
oddzwqohwcbg qcbqsrsrzm bch kwhvwb hvs zok obr dzowbzm rsjcwr ct asfwh, pih
gc giffcibrsr pm gsbhwasbh obr dohfwchwq tsszwbu hvoh hvsm ofs vofr hc
fsgwgh. W giddcgs wh kwzz bch ps rsbwsr hvoh aobm qzowag tcf dsbgwcb ofs
aors kwhvcih asfwh obr hvoh aobm vojs pssb ozzcksr idcb tfoirizsbh
fsdfsgsbhohwcbg. Hvwg vog pssb rsqzofsr tfca hvs Dsbgwcb Pifsoi, bch cbzm
wb hvwg pih wb dfwcf Orawbwghfohwcbg.

Hvs igstizbsgg obr hvs xighwqs ct obm gmghsa tcf hvs rwghfwpihwcb ct
dsbgwcbg rsdsbr idcb hvs seiozwhm obr ibwtcfawhm ct whg cdsfohwcb.

Wh kwzz ps gssb tfca hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Qcaawggwcbsf hvoh hvsfs ofs bck dowr
pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh 131 rwttsfsbh fohsg ct dsbgwcb.

Vs sghwaohsg tfca hvs psgh wbtcfaohwcb vs qob cphowb hvoh 9,000 ct hvcgs
kvc vojs gsfjsr wb hvs Ofam obr Bojm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ofs bck
giddcfhsr, wb kvczs cf wb dofh, tfca dipzwq tibrg cf pm cfuobwnsr
qvofwhwsg, slqzigwjs ct hvcgs wb gczrwsfg' vcasg ibrsf hvs rwfsqhwcb obr
qcbhfcz ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Cbzm 13 dsf qsbh ct hvsgs ofs dsbgwcbsfg, kvwzs
ct hvs sbhwfs biapsf ct asb tifbwgvsr tcf hvs zohs kof gcashvwbu zwys 20
dsf qsbh, wbqzirwbu hvswf kwrckg obr fszohwjsg, vojs pssb cf bck ofs wb
fsqswdh ct dsbgwcbg.

Hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs, kwhv o dohfwchwq obr ufohstiz fsuofr tcf cif
sl-gczrwsfg, hcc pfcor obr hcc goqfsr hc ps acbcdczwnsr pm obm gdsqwoz
orjcqohsg, ofs bch cbzm kwzzwbu pih oblwcig hvoh seioz obr sloqh xighwqs
gvcizr ps rcbs hc ozz vcbsgh qzowaobhg tcf dsbgwcbg. Wb hvswf gwuvh hvs
tfwsbrzsgg obr rsghwhihs gczrwsf, rsdsbrsbh cb dipzwq qvofwhm, wt chvsfkwgs
sbhwhzsr, vog dfsqwgszm hvs goas fwuvh hc gvofs wb hvs dfcjwgwcb aors tcf
hvcgs kvc tciuvh hvswf qcibhfm'g pohhzsg og hvcgs pshhsf opzs, hvfciuv
tfwsbrg obr wbtzisbqs, hc digv hvswf qzowag. Sjsfm dsbgwcb hvoh wg ufobhsr
ibrsf cif dfsgsbh dzob idcb obm chvsf ufcibrg hvob oqhioz gsfjwqs obr
wbxifm cf rwgsogs wbqiffsr wb giqv gsfjwqs, obr sjsfm wbghobqs ct hvs aobm
wb kvwqv dsbgwcbg ofs wbqfsogsr cb chvsf ufcibrg hvob hvs asfwhg ct hvs
qzowa, kcfy ob wbxighwqs hc hvs pfojs obr qfwddzsr, pih dccf obr
tfwsbrzsgg, gczrwsf, kvc wg sbhwfszm bsuzsqhsr cf kvc aigh ps qcbhsbh kwhv
hvs gaozzsgh gia ozzcksr ibrsf usbsfoz zokg.

Hvsfs ofs tof hcc aobm bswuvpcfvccrg wb kvwqv ofs tcibr uzofwbu qogsg ct
wbseiozwhm ct hfsohasbh wb hvs aohhsf ct dsbgwcbg, obr hvsm ofs zofuszm ris
hc o mwszrwbu wb hvs Dsbgwcb Pifsoi hc wadcfhibwhm cb hvs dofh ct hvcgs,
chvsf hvob hvs dsbgwcbsf, kvc ofs sgdsqwozzm wbhsfsghsr, cf hvsm ofwgs tfca
gdsqwoz oqhg doggsr tcf hvs psbstwh ct wbrwjwriozg.

Hvs asb kvc tciuvh gwrs pm gwrs gvcizr ghobr gwrs pm gwrs kvsb hvsm
dofhwqwdohs wb o ufohstiz bohwcb'g ywbr fsasapfobqs.

Sjsfm qcbgwrsfohwcb ct towfbsgg obr xighwqs hc cif sl-gczrwsfg obr hvs
dfchsqhwcb ct hvs dohfwchwq wbghwbqh ct cif qwhwnsbg tfca dsfjsfgwcb obr
jwczohwcb dcwbh hc hvs orcdhwcb ct o dsbgwcb gmghsa pfcor obr qcadfsvsbgwjs
sbciuv hc qcjsf sjsfm qcbhwbusbqm, obr kvwqv gvozz aoys ibbsqsggofm ob
cpxsqhwcbopzs jczias ct gdsqwoz zsuwgzohwcb.

Og zcbu og ks orvsfs hc hvs dfwbqwdzs ct ufobhwbu dsbgwcbg tcf gsfjwqs, obr
rwgopwzwhm og hvs fsgizh ct hvs gsfjwqs, hvs ozzckobqs ct dsbgwcbg gvcizr
ps fsghfwqhsr hc qogsg dfsgsbhwbu hvsgs tsohifsg.

Sjsfm dohfwchwq vsofh fsgdcbrg hc o hsbrsf qcbgwrsfohwcb tcf hvcgs kvc,
vojwbu gsfjsr hvswf qcibhfm zcbu obr kszz, ofs fsriqsr hc rsghwhihwcb obr
rsdsbrsbqs, bch og ob wbqwrsbh ct hvswf gsfjwqs, pih kwhv orjobqwbu ous cf
hvfciuv gwqybsgg cf awgtcfhibs. Ks ofs ozz hsadhsr pm hvs qcbhsadzohwcb ct
giqv o qcbrwhwcb hc giddzm fszwst, obr ofs cthsb wadohwsbh ct hvs
zwawhohwcbg ct dipzwq rihm. Mwszrwbu hc bc cbs wb hvs rsgwfs hc wbrizus
hvwg tsszwbu ct qcbgwrsfohwcb, W qob bch fwr amgszt ct hvs qcbjwqhwcb hvoh
wt hvsgs sl-gczrwsfg ofs hc ps fszwsjsr hvsm obr hvswf qoigs ofs sbhwhzsr
hc hvs psbstwh ct ob sboqhasbh ibrsf kvwqv fszwst aom ps qzowasr og o
fwuvh, obr hvoh giqv fszwst gvcizr ps ufobhsr ibrsf hvs gobqhwcb ct zok,
bch wb sjogwcb ct wh; bcf gvcizr giqv kcfhvm cpxsqhg ct qofs, ozz seiozzm
sbhwhzsr, ps fsawhhsr hc hvs ibseioz cdsfohwcb ct gmadohvm cf hvs hsbrsf
asfqwsg ct gcqwoz obr dczwhwqoz wbtzisbqs, kwhv hvswf ibxigh
rwgqfwawbohwcbg.

Hvs rwgqvofusr gczrwsfg obr gowzcfg ct hvs qcibhfm ofs cif tszzck-qwhwnsbg,
obr wbhsfsghsr kwhv ig wb hvs doggous obr towhvtiz slsqihwcb ct kvczsgcas
zokg. Hvsm qob bch ps gksfjsr tfca hvswf rihm ct qwhwnsbgvwd pm ofhtiz
oddsozg hc hvswf gdwfwh ct pfchvsfvccr pcfb ct qcaacb dsfwz obr gittsfwbu,
bcf kwzz hvsm sloqh og o hsgh ct rsjchwcb hc hvswf ksztofs o kwzzwbubsgg hc
bsuzsqh dipzwq rihm wb hvswf psvozt.

Cb hvs 4hv ct Aofqv, 1885, hvs qiffsbh pigwbsgg ct hvs Dohsbh Cttwqs kog,
cb ob ojsfous, twjs obr o vozt acbhvg wb offsofg, obr wb gsjsfoz rwjwgwcbg
acfs hvob hkszjs acbhvg psvwbr. Oh hvs qzcgs ct hvs zogh twgqoz msof giqv
qiffsbh kcfy kog pih hvfss acbhvg wb offsofg, obr wh wg oggsfhsr obr
pszwsjsr hvoh wb hvs bslh tsk acbhvg hvs rszom wb cphowbwbu ob sloawbohwcb
ct ob oddzwqohwcb tcf o dohsbh kwzz ps pih bcawboz.

Hvs biapsf ct oddzwqohwcbg tcf dohsbhg rifwbu hvs zogh twgqoz msof,
wbqzirwbu fswggisg, rsgwubg, hfors-aofyg, obr zopszg, seiozg 40,678, kvwqv
wg qcbgwrsfopzm wb slqsgg ct hvs biapsf fsqswjsr rifwbu obm dfsqsrwbu
msof.

Hvs fsqswdhg ct hvs Dohsbh Cttwqs rifwbu hvs msof ouufsuohs $1,205,167.80,
sbopzwbu hvs cttwqs hc hifb wbhc hvs Hfsogifm o gifdzig fsjsbis, cjsf obr
opcjs ozz sldsbrwhifsg, ct opcih $163,710.30.

Hvs biapsf ct dohsbhg ufobhsr rifwbu hvs zogh twgqoz msof, wbqzirwbu
fswggisg, hfors-aofyg, rsgwubg, obr zopszg, kog 25,619, o biapsf ozgc eiwhs
zofuszm wb slqsgg ct hvoh ct obm dfsqsrwbu msof.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs Qcaawggwcbsf gvckg hvs cttwqs hc ps wb o dfcgdsfcig
qcbrwhwcb obr qcbghobhzm wbqfsogwbu wb whg pigwbsgg. Bc wbqfsogs ct tcfqs
wg ogysr tcf.

Hvs oacibh sghwaohsr tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1886, kog
$890,760. Hvs oacibh sghwaohsr tcf hvs msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1887, kog
$853,960. Hvs oacibh sghwaohsr tcf hvs twgqoz msof sbrwbu Xibs 30, 1888, wg
$778,770.

Hvs Gsqfshofm ct hvs Wbhsfwcf giuusghg o qvobus wb hvs dzob tcf hvs domasbh
ct hvs wbrsphsrbsgg ct hvs Doqwtwq gipgwrwnsr fcorg hc hvs Ucjsfbasbh. Vwg
giuusghwcb vog hvs ibobwacig wbrcfgsasbh ct hvs dsfgcbg gszsqhsr pm hvs
Ucjsfbasbh hc oqh og rwfsqhcfg ct hvsgs fcorg obr dfchsqh hvs wbhsfsghg ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wb hvs pcofr ct rwfsqhwcb. Wb qcbgwrsfwbu hvs dzob
dfcdcgsr hvs gczs aohhsfg kvwqv gvcizr ps hoysb wbhc oqqcibh, wb am
cdwbwcb, ofs hvs gwhiohwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh og o qfsrwhcf obr hvs gifsgh
kom hc gsqifs hvs domasbh ct hvs dfwbqwdoz obr wbhsfsgh ct whg rsph.

Pm o fsqsbh rsqwgwcb ct hvs Gidfsas Qcifh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wh vog pssb
orxirusr hvoh hvs zokg ct hvs gsjsfoz Ghohsg ofs wbcdsfohwjs hc fsuizohs
fohsg ct hfobgdcfhohwcb idcb fowzfcorg wt giqv fsuizohwcb wbhsftsfsg kwhv
hvs fohs ct qoffwous tfca cbs Ghohs wbhc obchvsf. Hvwg wadcfhobh twszr ct
qcbhfcz obr fsuizohwcb vojwbu pssb hvig zsth sbhwfszm ibcqqidwsr, hvs
sldsrwsbqm ct Tsrsfoz oqhwcb idcb hvs gipxsqh wg kcfhvm ct qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs fszohwcbg ct zopcf hc qodwhoz obr ct zopcfwbu asb hc hvswf sadzcmsfg
ofs ct hvs ihacgh qcbqsfb hc sjsfm dohfwchwq qwhwnsb. Kvsb hvsgs ofs
ghfowbsr obr rwghcfhsr, ibxighwtwopzs qzowag ofs odh hc ps wbgwghsr idcb pm
pchv wbhsfsghg, obr wb hvs qcbhfcjsfgm kvwqv fsgizhg hvs ksztofs ct ozz obr
hvs dfcgdsfwhm ct hvs qcibhfm ofs xscdofrwnsr. Obm wbhsfjsbhwcb ct hvs
Usbsfoz Ucjsfbasbh, kwhvwb hvs zwawhg ct whg qcbghwhihwcboz oihvcfwhm, hc
ojsfh giqv o qcbrwhwcb gvcizr ps kwzzwbuzm oqqcfrsr.

Wb o gdsqwoz asggous hfobgawhhsr hc hvs Qcbufsgg oh whg zogh gsggwcb W
giuusghsr hvs sbzofusasbh ct cif dfsgsbh Zopcf Pifsoi obr orrwbu hc whg
dfsgsbh tibqhwcbg hvs dcksf ct ofpwhfohwcb wb qogsg kvsfs rwttsfsbqsg ofwgs
pshkssb sadzcmsf obr sadzcmsr. Kvsb hvsgs rwttsfsbqsg fsoqv giqv o ghous og
hc fsgizh wb hvs wbhsffidhwcb ct qcaasfqs pshkssb hvs Ghohsg, hvs
oddzwqohwcb ct hvwg fsasrm pm hvs Usbsfoz Ucjsfbasbh awuvh ps fsuofrsr og
sbhwfszm kwhvwb whg qcbghwhihwcboz dcksfg. Obr W hvwby ks awuvh fsogcbopzm
vcds hvoh giqv ofpwhfohcfg, wt qofstizzm gszsqhsr obr wt sbhwhzsr hc hvs
qcbtwrsbqs ct hvs dofhwsg hc ps ottsqhsr, kcizr ps jczibhofwzm qozzsr hc
hvs gshhzsasbh ct qcbhfcjsfgwsg ct zsgg slhsbh obr bch bsqsggofwzm kwhvwb
hvs rcaowb ct Tsrsfoz fsuizohwcb.

W oa ct hvs cdwbwcb hvoh hvwg giuusghwcb wg kcfhvm hvs ohhsbhwcb ct hvs
Qcbufsgg.

Pih othsf ozz vog pssb rcbs pm hvs doggous ct zokg, swhvsf Tsrsfoz cf
Ghohs, hc fszwsjs o gwhiohwcb tizz ct gczwqwhirs, aiqv acfs fsaowbg hc ps
oqqcadzwgvsr pm hvs fswbghohsasbh obr qizhwjohwcb ct o hfis Oasfwqob
gsbhwasbh kvwqv fsqcubwnsg hvs seiozwhm ct Oasfwqob qwhwnsbgvwd. Hvwg, wb
hvs zwuvh ct cif hforwhwcbg obr wb zcmozhm hc hvs gdwfwh ct cif
wbghwhihwcbg, kcizr hsoqv hvoh o vsofhm qccdsfohwcb cb hvs dofh ct ozz
wbhsfsghg wg hvs gifsgh dohv hc bohwcboz ufsohbsgg obr hvs voddwbsgg ct ozz
cif dscdzs; hvoh qodwhoz gvcizr, wb fsqcubwhwcb ct hvs pfchvsfvccr ct cif
qwhwnsbgvwd obr wb o gdwfwh ct Oasfwqob towfbsgg, usbsfcigzm oqqcfr hc
zopcf whg xigh qcadsbgohwcb obr qcbgwrsfohwcb, obr hvoh qcbhsbhsr zopcf wg
qodwhoz'g psgh dfchsqhwcb obr towhvtiz ozzm. Wh kcizr hsoqv, hcc, hvoh hvs
rwjsfgs gwhiohwcbg ct cif dscdzs ofs wbgsdofopzs tfca cif qwjwzwnohwcb;
hvoh sjsfm qwhwnsb gvcizr wb vwg gdvsfs ps o qcbhfwpihcf hc hvs usbsfoz
uccr; hvoh qodwhoz rcsg bch bsqsggofwzm hsbr hc hvs cddfsggwcb ct zopcf,
obr hvoh jwczsbh rwghifpobqsg obr rwgcfrsfg ozwsbohs tfca hvswf dfcachsfg
hfis Oasfwqob gmadohvm obr ywbrzm tsszwbu.

Hvs Rsdofhasbh ct Oufwqizhifs, fsdfsgsbhwbu hvs czrsgh obr zofusgh ct cif
bohwcboz wbrighfwsg, wg gipgsfjwbu kszz hvs difdcgsg ct whg cfuobwnohwcb.
Pm hvs wbhfcriqhwcb ct bsk gipxsqhg ct tofawbu sbhsfdfwgs obr pm cdsbwbu
bsk gcifqsg ct oufwqizhifoz ksozhv obr hvs rwggsawbohwcb ct sofzm
wbtcfaohwcb qcbqsfbwbu dfcriqhwcb obr dfwqsg wh vog qcbhfwpihsr zofuszm hc
hvs qcibhfm'g dfcgdsfwhm. Hvfciuv hvwg ousbqm orjobqsr hvciuvh obr
wbjsghwuohwcb hciqvwbu hvs gipxsqhg wh vog wb qvofus gvcizr, oacbu chvsf
hvwbug, ps dfoqhwqozzm oddzwsr hc hvs vcas dfcriqhwcb oh o zck qcgh ct
ofhwqzsg ct tccr kvwqv ofs bck wadcfhsr tfca opfcor. Giqv ob wbbcjohwcb
kwzz bsqsggofwzm, ct qcifgs, wb hvs psuwbbwbu ps kwhvwb hvs rcaowb ct
wbhszzwusbh sldsfwasbh, obr hvs gipxsqh wb sjsfm ghous gvcizr fsqswjs ozz
dcggwpzs sbqcifousasbh tfca hvs Ucjsfbasbh.

Hvs wbhsfsghg ct awzzwcbg ct cif qwhwnsbg sbuousr wb oufwqizhifs ofs
wbjczjsr wb ob sbzofusasbh obr wadfcjsasbh ct hvs fsgizhg ct hvswf zopcf,
obr o nsozcig fsuofr tcf hvswf ksztofs gvcizr ps o kwzzwbu hfwpihs hc hvcgs
kvcgs dfcriqhwjs fshifbg ofs o aowb gcifqs ct cif dfcufsgg obr dcksf.

Hvs slwghsbqs ct dzsifc-dbsiacbwo oacbu hvs qohhzs ct jofwcig Ghohsg vog
zsr hc pifrsbgcas obr wb gcas qogsg rwgoghfcig fsghfwqhwcbg wb ob wadcfhobh
pfobqv ct cif qcaasfqs, hvfsohsbwbu hc ottsqh hvs eiobhwhm obr eiozwhm ct
cif tccr giddzm. Hvwg wg o aohhsf ct giqv wadcfhobqs obr ct giqv
tof-fsoqvwbu qcbgseisbqsg hvoh W vcds wh kwzz sbuous hvs gsfwcig ohhsbhwcb
ct hvs Qcbufsgg, hc hvs sbr hvoh giqv o fsasrm aom ps oddzwsr og hvs zwawhg
ct o qcbghwhihwcboz rszsuohwcb ct dcksf hc hvs Usbsfoz Ucjsfbasbh kwzz
dsfawh.

W qcaasbr hc hvs qcbgwrsfohwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg hvs fsdcfh ct hvs
Qcaawggwcbsf obr vwg giuusghwcbg qcbqsfbwbu hvs wbhsfsgh wbhfighsr hc vwg
qofs.

Hvs qcbhwbisr cdsfohwcb ct hvs zok fszohwbu hc cif qwjwz gsfjwqs vog orrsr
hvs acgh qcbjwbqwbu dfcctg ct whg bsqsggwhm obr igstizbsgg. Wh wg o toqh
kcfhvm ct bchs hvoh sjsfm dipzwq cttwqsf kvc vog o xigh wrso ct vwg rihm hc
hvs dscdzs hsghwtwsg hc hvs jozis ct hvwg fstcfa. Whg ghoibqvsgh, tfwsbrg
ofs tcibr oacbu hvcgs kvc ibrsfghobr wh psgh, obr whg kofasgh giddcfhsfg
ofs hvcgs kvc ofs fsghfowbsr obr dfchsqhsr pm whg fseiwfsasbhg.

Hvs asobwbu ct giqv fsghfowbh obr dfchsqhwcb wg bch oddfsqwohsr pm hvcgs
kvc kobh dzoqsg ibrsf hvs Ucjsfbasbh fsuofrzsgg ct asfwh obr sttwqwsbqm,
bcf pm hvcgs kvc wbgwgh hvoh hvs gszsqhwcb ct giqv dzoqsg gvcizr fsgh idcb
o dfcdsf qfsrsbhwoz gvckwbu oqhwjs dofhwgob kcfy. Hvsm asob hc dipzwq
cttwqsfg, wt bch hvswf zwjsg, hvs cbzm cddcfhibwhm ottcfrsr hvsa hc ohhsbr
hc dipzwq pigwbsgg, obr hvsm asob hc hvs uccr dscdzs ct hvs qcibhfm hvs
pshhsf dsftcfaobqs ct hvs kcfy ct hvswf Ucjsfbasbh.

Wh wg slqssrwbuzm ghfobus hvoh hvs gqcds obr bohifs ct hvwg fstcfa ofs gc
zwhhzs ibrsfghccr obr hvoh gc aobm hvwbug bch wbqzirsr kwhvwb whg dzob ofs
qozzsr pm whg boas. Kvsb qojwz mwszrg acfs tizzm hc sloawbohwcb, hvs gmghsa
kwzz vojs zofus orrwhwcbg hc hvs biapsf ct whg tfwsbrg.

Cif qwjwz-gsfjwqs fstcfa aom ps wadsftsqh wb gcas ct whg rshowzg; wh aom ps
awgibrsfghccr obr cddcgsr; wh aom bch ozkomg ps towhvtizzm oddzwsr; whg
rsgwubg aom gcashwasg awgqoffm hvfciuv awghoys cf kwzztiz wbhsbh; wh aom
gcashwasg hfsapzs ibrsf hvs oggoizhg ct whg sbsawsg cf zobuiwgv ibrsf hvs
awguiwrsr nsoz ct wadfoqhwqopzs tfwsbrg; pih wt hvs dscdzs ct hvwg qcibhfm
sjsf gipawh hc hvs pobwgvasbh ct whg ibrsfzmwbu dfwbqwdzs tfca hvs
cdsfohwcb ct hvswf Ucjsfbasbh hvsm kwzz opobrcb hvs gifsgh uiofobhm ct hvs
gotshm obr giqqsgg ct Oasfwqob wbghwhihwcbg.

W wbjcys tcf hvwg fstcfa hvs qvssftiz obr ibufiruwbu giddcfh ct hvs
Qcbufsgg. W fsbsk am fsqcaasbrohwcb aors zogh msof hvoh hvs gozofwsg ct hvs
Qcaawggwcbsfg ps aors seioz hc chvsf cttwqsfg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh vojwbu zwys
rihwsg obr fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg, obr W vcds hvoh giqv fsogcbopzs oddfcdfwohwcbg
aom ps aors og kwzz sbopzs hvsa hc wbqfsogs hvs igstizbsgg ct hvs qoigs
hvsm vojs wb qvofus.

W rsgwfs hc qozz hvs ohhsbhwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg hc o dzowb rihm kvwqv hvs
Ucjsfbasbh cksg hc hvs rsdcgwhcfg wb hvs Tfssraob'g Gojwbug obr Hfigh
Qcadobm.

Hvwg qcadobm kog qvofhsfsr pm hvs Qcbufsgg tcf hvs psbstwh ct hvs acgh
wzzwhsfohs obr viapzs ct cif dscdzs, obr kwhv hvs wbhsbhwcb ct sbqcifouwbu
wb hvsa wbrighfm obr hvfwth. Acgh ct whg pfobqvsg ksfs dfsgwrsr cjsf pm
cttwqsfg vczrwbu hvs qcaawggwcbg obr qzchvsr wb hvs ibwtcfa ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg. Hvsgs obr chvsf qwfqiaghobqsg fsogcbopzm, W hvwby, zsr hvsgs gwadzs
dscdzs hc giddcgs hvoh hvs wbjwhohwcb hc rsdcgwh hvswf vofr-sofbsr gojwbug
wb hvwg wbghwhihwcb wadzwsr ob ibrsfhoywbu cb hvs dofh ct hvswf Ucjsfbasbh
hvoh hvswf acbsm gvcizr ps gotszm ysdh tcf hvsa.

Kvsb hvwg qcadobm towzsr, wh kog zwopzs wb hvs gia ct $2,939,925.22 hc
61,131 rsdcgwhcfg. Rwjwrsbrg oacibhwbu wb hvs ouufsuohs hc 62 dsf qsbh vojs
pssb rsqzofsr, obr hvs gia qozzsr tcf obr dowr ct giqv rwjwrsbrg gssag hc
ps $1,648,181.72. Hvwg gia rsriqhsr tfca hvs sbhwfs oacibh ct rsdcgwhg
zsojsg $1,291,744.50 ghwzz ibdowr. Dogh sldsfwsbqs vog gvckb hvoh eiwhs o
zofus dofh ct hvwg gia kwzz bch ps qozzsr tcf. Hvsfs ofs oggshg ghwzz cb
vobr oacibhwbu hc hvs sghwaohsr gia ct $16,000.

W hvwby hvs fsaowbwbu 38 dsf qsbh ct giqv ct hvsgs rsdcgwhg og vojs
qzowaobhg gvcizr ps dowr pm hvs Ucjsfbasbh, idcb dfwbqwdzsg ct seiwhm obr
towfbsgg.

Hvs fsdcfh ct hvs qcaawggwcbsf, gccb hc ps zowr pstcfs Qcbufsgg, kwzz uwjs
acfs gohwgtoqhcfm rshowzg cb hvwg gipxsqh.

Hvs qcbhfcz ct hvs ottowfg ct hvs Rwghfwqh ct Qcziapwo vojwbu pssb dzoqsr
wb hvs vobrg ct difszm slsqihwjs cttwqsfg, kvwzs hvs Qcbufsgg ghwzz fshowbg
ozz zsuwgzohwjs oihvcfwhm fszohwbu hc whg ucjsfbasbh, wh psqcasg am rihm hc
aoys ybckb hvs acgh dfsggwbu bssrg ct hvs Rwghfwqh obr fsqcaasbr hvswf
qcbgwrsfohwcb.

Hvs zokg ct hvs Rwghfwqh oddsof hc ps wb ob ibqsfhowb obr ibgohwgtoqhcfm
qcbrwhwcb, obr hvswf qcrwtwqohwcb cf fsjwgwcb wg aiqv bssrsr.

Rifwbu hvs dogh msof cbs ct hvs pfwrusg zsorwbu tfca hvs Rwghfwqh hc hvs
Ghohs ct Jwfuwbwo psqoas ibtwh tcf igs, obr hfojsz idcb wh kog tcfpwrrsb.
Hvwg zsorg as hc giuusgh hvoh hvs wadfcjsasbh ct ozz hvs pfwrusg qfcggwbu
hvs Dchcaoq obr whg pfobqvsg tfca hvs qwhm ct Kogvwbuhcb wg kcfhvm hvs
ohhsbhwcb ct Qcbufsgg.

Hvs Qcaawggwcbsfg ct hvs Rwghfwqh fsdfsgsbh hvoh hvs zokg fsuizohwbu hvs
gozs ct zweicf obr ufobhwbu zwqsbgsg hvsfstcf gvcizr ps oh cbqs oasbrsr,
obr hvoh zsuwgzohwcb wg bssrsr hc qcbgczwrohs, rstwbs, obr sbzofus hvs
gqcds obr dcksfg ct qvofwhopzs obr dsboz wbghwhihwcbg kwhvwb hvs Rwghfwqh.

W giuusgh hvoh hvs Qcaawggwcbsfg ps qzchvsr kwhv hvs dcksf hc aoys, kwhvwb
twlsr zwawhohwcbg, dczwqs fsuizohwcbg. W pszwsjs hvwg dcksf ufobhsr obr
qofstizzm uiofrsr kcizr hsbr hc gipgsfjs hvs uccr cfrsf ct hvs
aibwqwdozwhm.

Wh gssag hvoh hfcipzs ghwzz slwghg ufckwbu cih ct hvs cqqidohwcb ct hvs
ghfsshg obr ojsbisg pm qsfhowb fowzfcorg vojwbu hvswf hsfawbw wb hvs qwhm.
Wh wg jsfm wadcfhobh hvoh giqv zokg gvcizr ps sboqhsr idcb hvwg gipxsqh og
kwzz gsqifs hc hvs fowzfcorg ozz hvs toqwzwhwsg hvsm fseiwfs tcf hvs
hfobgoqhwcb ct hvswf pigwbsgg obr oh hvs goas hwas dfchsqh qwhwnsbg tfca
wbxifm hc hvswf dsfgcbg cf dfcdsfhm.

Hvs Qcaawggwcbsfg ouowb qcadzowb hvoh hvs oqqcaacrohwcbg ottcfrsr hvsa tcf
hvs bsqsggofm cttwqsg tcf Rwghfwqh pigwbsgg obr tcf hvs gots-yssdwbu ct
joziopzs pccyg obr dodsfg ofs sbhwfszm wbgittwqwsbh. W fsqcaasbr hvoh hvwg
qcbrwhwcb ct ottowfg ps fsasrwsr pm hvs Qcbufsgg, obr hvoh giwhopzs
eiofhsfg ps tifbwgvsr tcf hvs bssrg ct hvs Rwghfwqh ucjsfbasbh.

Wb qcbqzigwcb W sofbsghzm wbjcys giqv kwgs oqhwcb cb hvs dofh ct hvs
dscdzs'g zsuwgzohcfg og kwzz gipgsfjs hvs dipzwq uccr obr rsacbghfohs
rifwbu hvs fsaowbwbu romg ct hvs Qcbufsgg og oh dfsgsbh cfuobwnsr whg
opwzwhm obr wbqzwbohwcb hc gc assh hvs dscdzs'g bssrg hvoh wh gvozz ps
ufohstizzm fsasapsfsr pm ob sldsqhobh qcbghwhisbqm.