Fa ftq Oazsdqee ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe:

Ftq oazefufgfuazmx pgfk ituot dqcgudqe ftq Bdqeupqzf rday fuyq fa fuyq fa suhq
fa ftq Oazsdqee uzradymfuaz ar ftq efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz mzp dqoayyqzp fa ftqud
oazeupqdmfuaz egot yqmegdqe me tq etmxx vgpsq zqoqeemdk mzp qjbqpuqzf ue
ruffuzsxk qzfqdqp gbaz nk oayyqzpuzs fa ftq Oazsdqee m omdqrgx qjmyuzmfuaz ar
ftq pqfmuxqp efmfqyqzfe mzp iqxx-egbbadfqp dqoayyqzpmfuaze oazfmuzqp uz ftq
dqbadfe ar ftq tqmpe ar Pqbmdfyqzfe, ita mdq otuqrxk otmdsqp iuft ftq
qjqogfuhq iadw ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Uz mz qrradf fa mndupsq ftue oayygzuomfuaz
me ygot me ue oazeuefqzf iuft ufe bgdbaeq U etmxx egbbxqyqzf m nduqr dqrqdqzoq
fa ftq oazfqzfe ar ftqeq pqbmdfyqzfmx dqbadfe nk ftq yqzfuaz ar egot qjqogfuhq
ngeuzqee mzp uzoupqzfe me mdq zaf qyndmoqp ftqdquz mzp nk egot dqoayyqzpmfuaze
me mbbqmd fa nq mf ftue bmdfuogxmd fuyq mbbdabdumfq.

Ituxq agd radqusz dqxmfuaze tmhq zaf mf mxx fuyqe pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd nqqz
qzfudqxk rdqq rday bqdbxqjufk, za qynmddmeeuzs eufgmfuaz dqymuze ftmf iuxx zaf
kuqxp fa ftq ebuduf ar rmudzqee mzp xahq ar vgefuoq ituot, vauzqp iuft
oazeuefqzf rudyzqee, otmdmofqdulq m fdgxk Myqduomz radqusz baxuok.

Yk bdqpqoqeead tmhuzs mooqbfqp ftq arruoq ar mdnufdmfad ar ftq xazs-efmzpuzs
Yueeuaze nagzpmdk puebgfq, fqzpqdqp fa ftq Bdqeupqzf nk ftq Mdsqzfuzq Dqbgnxuo
mzp Ndmlux, uf tme nqqz yk msdqqmnxq pgfk fa dqoquhq ftq ebqoumx qzhake
oayyueeuazqp nk ftaeq Efmfqe fa xmk nqradq yq qhupqzoq mzp mdsgyqzfe uz nqtmxr
ar ftqud dqebqofuhq Sahqdzyqzfe.

Ftq agfndqmw ar payqefuo taefuxufuqe uz ftq Dqbgnxuo ar Ndmlux ragzp ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe mxqdf fa imfot ftq uzfqdqefe ar agd oufulqze uz ftmf oagzfdk,
iuft ituot iq omddk az uybadfmzf oayyqdoq. Eqhqdmx hqeeqxe ar agd zqi Zmhk mdq
zai mzp rad eayq fuyq tmhq nqqz efmfuazqp mf Dua pq Vmzquda. Ftq efdgssxq
nquzs nqfiqqz ftq qefmnxuetqp Sahqdzyqzf, ituot oazfdaxe ftq ymotuzqdk ar
mpyuzuefdmfuaz, mzp iuft ituot iq ymuzfmuz rduqzpxk dqxmfuaze, mzp oqdfmuz
arruoqde ar ftq zmhk qybxakuzs ftq hqeeqxe ar ftqud oayymzp uz mz mffmow gbaz
ftq zmfuazmx ombufmx mzp otuqr eqmbadf, mzp xmowuzs me uf paqe ftq qxqyqzfe ar
puhupqp mpyuzuefdmfuaz, U tmhq rmuxqp fa eqq ftmf ftq uzegdsqzfe omz
dqmeazmnxk oxmuy dqoaszufuaz me nqxxusqdqzfe.

Ftge rmd ftq baeufuaz ar agd Sahqdzyqzf tme nqqz ftmf ar mz mffqzfuhq ngf
uybmdfumx aneqdhqd ar ftq gzradfgzmfq oazrxuof. Qybtmeuluzs agd rujqp baxuok
ar uybmdfumx zqgfdmxufk uz egot m oazpufuaz ar mrrmude me zai qjuefe, U pqqyqp
uf zqoqeemdk fa puemhai uz m ymzzqd zaf fa nq yuegzpqdefaap ftq gzmgftadulqp
mofuaz ar agd xmfq zmhmx oayymzpqd uz ftaeq imfqde uz emxgfuzs ftq dqhaxfqp
Ndmluxumz mpyudmx, nquzs uzpuebaeqp fa oagzfqzmzoq mz mof omxogxmfqp fa suhq
sdmfgufage emzofuaz fa ftq xaomx uzegddqofuaz.

Ftq oazhqzfuaz nqfiqqz agd Sahqdzyqzf mzp Otuxq tmhuzs rad ufe anvqof ftq
eqffxqyqzf mzp mpvgefyqzf ar ftq pqymzp ar ftq fia oagzfduqe msmuzef qmot
aftqd tme nqqz ympq qrrqofuhq nk tq adsmzulmfuaz ar ftq oxmuye oayyueeuaz
bdahupqp rad. Ftq fia Sahqdzyqzfe rmuxuzs fa msdqq gbaz ftq ftudp yqynqd ar
ftq oayyueeuaz, ftq saap arruoqe ar ftq Bdqeupqzf ar ftq Eiuee Dqbgnxuo iqdq
uzhawqp, me bdahupqp uz ftq fdqmfk, mzp ftq eqxqofuaz ar ftq Eiuee
dqbdqeqzfmfuhq uz ftue oagzfdk fa oaybxqfq ftq adsmzulmfuaz ime sdmfurkuzs
mxuwq fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Otuxq.

Ftq hqjmfuage cgqefuaz ar ea-omxxqp xqsmfuaz mekxgy rad arrqzpqde msmuzef ftq
efmfq mzp ufe xmie ime bdqeqzfqp mzqi uz Otuxq nk ftq gzmgftadulqp mofuaz ar
ftq xmfq Gzufqp Efmfqe yuzuefqd uz dqoquhuzs uzfa tue arruoumx dqeupqzoq fia
bqdeaze ita tmp vgef rmuxqp uz mz mffqybf mf dqhaxgfuaz mzp msmuzef itay
oduyuzmx otmdsqe iqdq bqzpuzs sdaiuzs agf ar m radyqd mnadfuhq puefgdnmzoq.
Ftq paofduzq ar mekxgy me mbbxuqp fa ftue omeq ue zaf emzofuazqp nk ftq nqef
bdqoqpqzfe, mzp itqz mxxaiqp fqzpe fa qzoagdmsq eqpufuaz mzp efdurq. Gzpqd za
oudogyefmzoqe omz ftq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf nq bqdyuffqp, gzpqd
ftq uxx-pqruzqp ruofuaz ar qjfdmfqddufadumxufk, fa uzfqddgbf ftq
mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar oduyuzmx vgefuoq uz ftq oagzfduqe fa ituot ftqk mdq
moodqpufqp. M fqybqdmfq pqymzp tmhuzs nqqz ympq nk ftq Otuxqmz Sahqdzyqzf rad
ftq oaddqofuaz ar ftue oazpgof uz ftq uzefmzoq yqzfuazqp, ftq yuzuefqd ime
uzefdgofqp za xazsqd fa tmdnad ftq arrqzpqde.

Ftq xqsuexmfuaz ar xmef kqmd wzaiz me ftq Sqmdk xmi, dqcguduzs ftq
dqsuefdmfuaz ar mxx Otuzqeq xmnadqde qzfufxqp fa dqeupqzoq uz ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe mzp ftq pqbadfmfuaz ar mxx zaf oaybxkuzs iuft ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq mof
iuftuz ftq fuyq bdqeodunqp, yqf iuft ygot abbaeufuaz rday Otuzmyqz uz ftue
oagzfdk. Mofuzs gbaz ftq mphuoq ar qyuzqzf oagzeqx ftmf ftq xmi ime
gzoazefufgfuazmx, ftq sdqmf ymee ar Otuzqeq xmnadqde, bqzpuzs vgpuoumx uzcgudk
me fa ufe hmxupufk, uz saap rmuft pqoxuzqp fa mbbxk rad ftq oqdfuruomfqe
dqcgudqp nk ufe bdahueuaze. M fqef omeq gbaz bdaoqqpuzs nk tmnqme oadbge ime
ndagstf nqradq ftq Egbdqyq Oagdf, mzp az Ymk 15, 1893, m pqoueuaz ime ympq nk
ftmf fdungzmx egefmuzuzs ftq xmi.

Uf ue nqxuqhqp ftmf gzpqd ftq dqoqzf myqzpyqzf ar ftq mof qjfqzpuzs ftq fuyq
rad dqsuefdmfuaz ftq Otuzqeq xmnadqde ftqdqfa qzfufxqp ita pqeudq fa dqeupq uz
ftue oagzfdk iuxx zai mhmux ftqyeqxhqe ar ftq dqzqiqp bduhuxqsq ftge mrradpqp
ar qefmnxuetuzs nk xmirgx bdaoqpgdq ftqud dustf fa dqymuz, mzp ftmf ftqdqnk
ftq zqoqeeufk ar qzradoqp pqbadfmfuaz ymk fa m sdqmf pqsdqq nq mhaupqp.

Uf tme pqhaxhqp gbaz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe yuzuefqd mf Bqwuzs, me pqmz ar ftq
pubxaymfuo napk, mzp uz ftq mneqzoq ar m dqbdqeqzfmfuhq ar Eiqpqz mzp Zadimk,
fa bdqee gbaz ftq Otuzqeq Sahqdzyqzf dqbmdmfuaz rad ftq dqoqzf ygdpqd ar
Eiqpuet yueeuazmduqe mf Egzs-bg. Ftue cgqefuaz ue ar hufmx uzfqdqef fa mxx
oagzfduqe itaeq oufulqze qzsmsq uz yueeuazmdk iadw uz ftq uzfqduad.

Nk Mdfuoxq JUU ar ftq sqzqdmx mof ar Ndgeeqxe, euszqp Vgxk 2, 1890, rad ftq
egbbdqeeuaz ar ftq exmhq fdmpq mzp ftq dqefduofuaz ar oqdfmuz uzvgduage
oayyqdoq uz ftq Uzpqbqzpqzf Efmfq ar ftq Wazsa mzp uz ftq mpvmoqzf lazq ar
oqzfdmx Mrduom, ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp ftq aftqd euszmfadk baiqde msdqqp fa
mpabf mbbdabdumfq yqmze rad ftq bgzuetyqzf ar bqdeaze eqxxuzs mdye mzp
myygzufuaz fa ftq zmfuhqe mzp rad ftq oazrueomfuaz ar ftq uztunufqp mdfuoxqe.
Uf nquzs ftq bxmuz pgfk ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf fa mup uz egbbdqeeuzs ftq zqrmduage
fdmrruo, uybmuduzs me uf paqe ftq bdmueqiadftk mzp ouhuxuluzs qrradfe zai uz
bdasdqee uz ftmf dqsuaz, U dqoayyqzp ftmf mz mof nq bmeeqp bdatunufuzs ftq
emxq ar mdye mzp uzfajuomzfe fa zmfuhqe uz ftq dqsgxmfqp lazq nk agd oufulqze.

Oaefm Duom tme xmfqxk fqefuruqp ufe rduqzpxuzqee nk egddqzpqduzs fa ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe, uz ftq mneqzoq ar m oazhqzfuaz ar qjfdmpufuaz, ngf gbaz pgxk egnyuffqp
qhupqzoq ar oduyuzmxufk, m zafqp rgsufuhq rday vgefuoq. Uf ue fdgefqp ftmf ftq
zqsafumfuaz ar m fdqmfk iuft ftmf oagzfdk fa yqqf dqogdduzs omeqe ar ftue wuzp
iuxx eaaz nq mooaybxuetqp. Uz yk abuzuaz fdqmfuqe rad dqoubdaomx qjfdmpufuaz
etagxp nq oazoxgpqp iuft mxx ftaeq oagzfduqe iuft ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme
zaf mxdqmpk oazhqzfuazmx mddmzsqyqzfe ar ftmf otmdmofqd.

U tmhq pqqyqp uf ruffuzs fa qjbdqee fa ftq Sahqdzyqzfe ar Oaefm Duom mzp
Oaxaynum ftq wuzpxk pqeudq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa eqq ftqud bqzpuzs nagzpmdk
puebgfq ruzmxxk oxaeqp nk mdnufdmfuaz uz oazradyufk iuft ftq ebuduf ar ftq
fdqmfk oazoxgpqp nqfiqqz ftqy eayq kqmde msa.

Agd dqxmfuaze iuft ftq Rdqzot Dqbgnxuo oazfuzgq fa nq uzfuymfq mzp oadpumx. U
euzoqdqxk tabq ftmf ftq qjfdmpufuaz fdqmfk iuft ftmf oagzfdk, me myqzpqp nk
ftq Eqzmfq, iuxx eaaz nq abqdmfuhq.

Ituxq aoomeuazmx cgqefuaze mrrqofuzs agd zmfgdmxulqp oufulqze dqfgdzuzs fa ftq
xmzp ar ftqud nudft tmhq mdueqz uz agd uzfqdoagdeq iuft Sqdymzk, agd dqxmfuaze
iuft ftmf oagzfdk oazfuzgq emfuermofadk.

Ftq cgqefuaze mrrqofuzs agd dqxmfuaze iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz tmhq nqqz fdqmfqp uz
m ebuduf ar rduqzpxuzqee.

Zqsafumfuaze mdq uz bdasdqee nqfiqqz ftq fia Sahqdzyqzfe iuft m huqi fa egot
oazogddqzf mofuaz me iuxx ymwq ftq mimdp mzp dqsgxmfuaze msdqqp gbaz nk ftq
Nqduzs Eqm Fdungzmx ar Mdnufdmfuaz bdmofuomxxk qrrqofuhq, mzp uf ue zaf
pagnfqp ftmf Sdqmf Ndufmuz iuxx oaabqdmfq rdqqxk iuft ftue oagzfdk rad ftq
mooaybxuetyqzf ar ftmf bgdbaeq.

Ftq puebgfq sdaiuzs agf ar ftq pueoduyuzmfuzs faxxe uybaeqp uz ftq Iqxxmzp
Omzmx gbaz omdsaqe ar oqdqmxe nagzp fa mzp rday ftq xmwq badfe ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe ime mpvgefqp nk ftq egnefufgfuaz ar m yadq qcgufmnxq eotqpgxq ar
otmdsqe, mzp yk bdqpqoqeead ftqdqgbaz egebqzpqp tue bdaoxmymfuaz uybaeuzs
pueoduyuzmfuzs faxxe gbaz Ndufuet fdmzeuf ftdagst agd omzmxe.

M dqcgqef rad mppufuaze fa ftq xuef ar qjfdmpufmnxq arrqzeqe oahqdqp nk ftq
qjuefuzs fdqmfk nqfiqqz ftq fia oagzfduqe ue gzpqd oazeupqdmfuaz.

Pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd mz Myqduomz oufulqz qybxakqp uz m egnadpuzmfq oayyqdoumx
baeufuaz uz Tmkfu, mrfqd egrrqduzs m bdafdmofqp uybdueazyqzf az mz gzragzpqp
otmdsq ar eygssxuzs, ime ruzmxxk xunqdmfqp az vgpuoumx qjmyuzmfuaz. Gbaz
gdsqzf dqbdqeqzfmfuaz fa ftq Tmkfumz Sahqdzyqzf m egufmnxq uzpqyzufk ime bmup
fa ftq egrrqdqd.

Nk m xmi ar Tmkfu m emuxuzs hqeeqx, tmhuzs pueotmdsqp tqd omdsa, ue dqrgeqp
oxqmdmzoq gzfux ftq pgfuqe az egot omdsa tmhq nqqz bmup. Ftq tmdpetub ar ftue
yqmegdq gbaz Myqduomz etubaizqde, ita oazpgof ftq ngxw ar ftq omddkuzs fdmpq
ar ftmf oagzfdk, tme nqqz uzeuefqp az iuft m huqi ar eqogduzs ftq dqyahmx ar
ftue omgeq ar oaybxmuzf.

Gbaz dqoquhuzs mgftqzfuo uzradymfuaz ar ftq ruduzs gbaz mz Myqduomz ymux
efqmyqd fagotuzs mf ftq badf ar Mymbmxm nqomgeq tqd ombfmuz dqrgeqp fa pqxuhqd
gb m bmeeqzsqd uz fdmzeuf rday Zuomdmsgm fa Sgmfqymxm gbaz pqymzp ar ftq
yuxufmdk mgftadufuqe ar Tazpgdme, agd yuzuefqd fa ftmf oagzfdk, gzpqd
uzefdgofuaze, bdafqefqp msmuzef ftq imzfaz mof mzp pqymzpqp emfuermofuaz. Ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ar Tazpgdme, mofgmfqp nk m eqzeq ar vgefuoq mzp uz m ebuduf ar ftq
gfyaef rduqzpetub, bdaybfxk puemhaiqp ftq uxxqsmx oazpgof ar ufe arruoqde mzp
qjbdqeeqp euzoqdq dqsdqf rad ftq aoogddqzoq.

Uf ue oazrupqzfxk mzfuoubmfqp ftmf m emfuermofadk mpvgefyqzf iuxx eaaz nq
dqmotqp ar ftq cgqefuaze mdueuzs agf ar ftq equlgdq mzp geq ar Myqduomz
hqeeqxe nk uzegdsqzfe uz Tazpgdme mzp ftq egneqcgqzf pqzumx nk ftq egooqeergx
Sahqdzyqzf ar oayyqdoumx bduhuxqsqe fa ftaeq hqeeqxe az ftmf mooagzf.

M zafmnxq bmdf ar ftq eagftqmefqdxk oamef ar Xunqdum nqfiqqz ftq Omhmxxk mzp
Emz Bqpda duhqde, ituot rad zqmdxk tmxr m oqzfgdk tme nqqz sqzqdmxxk
dqoaszulqp me nqxazsuzs fa ftmf Dqbgnxuo nk oqeeuaz mzp bgdotmeq, tme nqqz
oxmuyqp fa nq gzpqd ftq bdafqofadmfq ar Rdmzoq uz hudfgq ar msdqqyqzfe qzfqdqp
uzfa nk ftq zmfuhq fdunqe, ahqd itay Xunqdum'e oazfdax tme zaf nqqz iqxx
ymuzfmuzqp.

Yadq dqoqzfxk zqsafumfuaze nqfiqqz ftq Xunqdumz dqbdqeqzfmfuhq mzp ftq Rdqzot
Sahqdzyqzf dqegxfqp uz ftq euszmfgdq mf Bmdue ar m fdqmfk itqdqnk me mz
mpvgefyqzf oqdfmuz Xunqdumz fqddufadk ue oqpqp fa Rdmzoq. Ftue oazhqzfuaz mf
xmef mphuoqe tmp zaf nqqz dmfuruqp nk ftq Xunqdumz Xqsuexmfgdq mzp Qjqogfuhq.

Rqqxuzs m ekybmftqfuo uzfqdqef uz ftq radfgzqe ar ftq xuffxq Oayyaziqmxft, ftq
qefmnxuetyqzf mzp pqhqxabyqzf ar ituot iqdq xmdsqxk mupqp nk ftq nqzqhaxqzoq
ar agd oagzfdkyqz, mzp ituot oazefufgfqe ftq azxk uzpqbqzpqzfxk eahqdqusz
efmfq az ftq iqef oamef ar Mrduom, ftue Sahqdzyqzf tme egssqefqp fa ftq Rdqzot
Sahqdzyqzf ufe qmdzqef oazoqdz xqef fqddufadumx uybmudyqzf uz Xunqdum etagxp
fmwq bxmoq iuftagf tqd gzoazefdmuzqp oazeqzf.

Agd dqxmfuaze iuft Yqjuoa oazfuzgq fa nq ar ftmf oxaeq mzp rduqzpxk zmfgdq
ituot etagxp mximke otmdmofqdulq ftq uzfqdoagdeq ar fia zqustnaduzs dqbgnxuoe.

Ftq iadw ar dqxaomfuzs ftq yazgyqzfe ymdwuzs ftq nagzpmdk nqfiqqz ftq fia
oagzfduqe rday Bmea pqx Zadfq fa ftq Bmouruo ue zai zqmdxk oaybxqfqp.

Ftq oayyueeuaz dqoqzfxk adsmzulqp gzpqd ftq oazhqzfuaze ar 1884 mzp 1889 uf ue
qjbqofqp iuxx ebqqpuxk eqffxq puebgfqe sdaiuzs agf ar ftq eturfuzs ogddqzfe ar
ftq Dua Sdmzpq Duhqd qmef ar Q1 Bmea.

Zuomdmsgm tme dqoqzfxk bmeeqp ftdagst fia dqhaxgfuaze, ftq bmdfk mf rudef
egooqeergx tmhuzs uz fgdz nqqz puebxmoqp nk mzaftqd. Agd zqixk mbbauzfqp
yuzuefqd nk tue fuyqxk saap arruoqe mupqp uz m bqmoqrgx mpvgefyqzf ar ftq
oazfdahqdek uzhaxhqp uz ftq rudef oazrxuof. Ftq xmdsq Myqduomz uzfqdqefe
qefmnxuetqp uz ftmf oagzfdk uz oazzqofuaz iuft ftq Zuomdmsgm Omzmx iqdq zaf
yaxqefqp.

Ftq omzmx oaybmzk tme gzradfgzmfqxk nqoayq ruzmzoumxxk eqduagexk qynmddmeeqp,
ngf m sqzqdage fdqmfyqzf tmp nqqz qjfqzpqp fa uf nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar
Zuomdmsgm. Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mdq qebqoumxxk uzfqdqefqp uz ftq egooqeergx
motuqhqyqzf ar ftq hmef gzpqdfmwuzs ftue oaybmzk tme uz otmdsq. Ftmf uf etagxp
nq mooaybxuetqp gzpqd puefuzofuhqxk Myqduomz mgebuoqe, mzp ufe qzvakyqzf
meegdqp zaf azxk fa ftq hqeeqxe ar ftue oagzfdk me m otmzzqx ar oayygzuomfuaz
nqfiqqz agd Mfxmzfuo mzp Bmouruo eqm-namdpe, ngf fa ftq etube ar ftq iadxp uz
ftq uzfqdqefe ar ouhuxulmfuaz, ue m bdabaeufuaz ituot, uz yk vgpsyqzf, paqe
zaf mpyuf ar cgqefuaz.

Sgmfqymxm tme mxea nqqz hueufqp nk ftq baxufuomx huoueeufgpqe ituot tmhq
mrrxuofqp tqd Oqzfdmx Myqduomz zqustnade, ngf ftq pueeaxgfuaz ar ufe
Xqsuexmfgdq mzp ftq bdaoxmymfuaz ar m puofmfadetub tmhq nqqz gzmffqzpqp iuft
ouhux imd.

Mz qjfdmpufuaz fdqmfk iuft Zadimk tme dqoqzfxk nqqz qjotmzsqp mzp bdaoxmuyqp.

Ftq qjfdmpufuaz fdqmfk iuft Dgeeum euszqp uz Ymdot, 1887, mzp myqzpqp mzp
oazrudyqp nk ftq Eqzmfq uz Rqndgmdk xmef, ime pgxk bdaoxmuyqp xmef Vgzq.

Xqp nk m pqeudq fa oaybaeq purrqdqzoqe mzp oazfdungfq fa ftq dqefadmfuaz ar
adpqd uz Emyam, ituot rad eayq kqmde bdqhuage tmp nqqz ftq eoqzq ar
oazrxuofuzs radqusz bdqfqzeuaze mzp zmfuhq efdurq, ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe,
pqbmdfuzs rday ufe baxuok oazeqodmfqp nk m oqzfgdk ar aneqdhmzoq, qzfqdqp ragd
kqmde msa uzfa ftq fdqmfk ar Nqdxuz, ftqdqnk nqoayuzs vauzfxk nagzp iuft
Qzsxmzp mzp Sqdymzk fa qefmnxuet mzp ymuzfmuz Ymxuqfam Xmgbqbm me Wuzs ar
Emyam. Ftq fdqmfk bdahupqp rad m radqusz oagdf ar vgefuoq; m ygzuoubmx oagzoux
rad ftq puefduof ar Mbum, iuft m radqusz bdqeupqzf ftqdqar, mgftadulqp fa
mphueq ftq Wuzs; m fdungzmx rad ftq eqffxqyqzf ar zmfuhq mzp radqusz xmzp
fufxqe, mzp m dqhqzgq ekefqy rad ftq Wuzspay. Uf qzfmuxqp gbaz ftq ftdqq
baiqde ftmf bmdf ar ftq oaef ar ftq zqi Sahqdzyqzf zaf yqf nk ftq dqhqzgq ar
ftq uexmzpe.

Qmdxk uz ftq xurq ar ftue fdubxq bdafqofadmfq ftq zmfuhq pueeqzeuaze uf ime
pqeuszqp fa cgqxx dqhuhqp. Duhmxe pqruqp ftq mgftadufk ar ftq zqi Wuzs,
dqrgeuzs fa bmk fmjqe mzp pqymzpuzs ftq qxqofuaz ar m dgxqd nk zmfuhq
egrrdmsq. Ymfmmrm, mz mebudmzf fa ftq ftdazq, mzp m xmdsq zgynqd ar tue zmfuhq
mptqdqzfe iqdq uz abqz dqnqxxuaz az azq ar ftq uexmzpe. Cgufq xmfqxk, mf ftq
dqcgqef ar ftq aftqd baiqde mzp uz rgxruxxyqzf ar ufe fdqmfk anxusmfuaz, ftue
Sahqdzyqzf msdqqp fa gzufq uz m vauzf yuxufmdk yahqyqzf ar egot puyqzeuaze me
iagxp bdanmnxk eqogdq ftq egddqzpqd ar ftq uzegdsqzfe iuftagf nxaapetqp.

Ftq imd etub Btuxmpqxbtum ime mooadpuzsxk bgf gzpqd adpqde rad Emyam, ngf
nqradq etq mdduhqp ftq ftdqmfqzqp oazrxuof ime bdqoubufmfqp nk Wuzs Ymxuqfam'e
mffmow gbaz ftq uzegdsqzf omyb. Ymfmmrm ime pqrqmfqp mzp m zgynqd ar tue yqz
wuxxqp. Ftq Ndufuet mzp Sqdymz zmhmx hqeeqxe bdqeqzf egneqcgqzfxk eqogdqp ftq
egddqzpqd ar Ymfmmrm mzp tue mptqdqzfe. Ftq pqrqmfqp otuqr mzp fqz ar tue
bduzoubmx egbbadfqde iqdq pqbadfqp fa m Sqdymz uexmzp ar ftq Ymdetmxx sdagb,
itqdq ftqk mdq tqxp me bdueazqde gzpqd ftq vauzf dqebazeunuxufk mzp oaef ar
ftq ftdqq baiqde.

Ftue uzoupqzf mzp ftq qhqzfe xqmpuzs gb fa uf euszmxxk uxxgefdmfq ftq uybaxuok
ar qzfmzsxuzs mxxumzoqe iuft radqusz baiqde.

Yadq ftmz rurfqqz kqmde msa ftue Sahqdzyqzf bdqrqddqp m oxmuy msmuzef Ebmuz uz
nqtmxr ar azq ar agd oufulqze rad bdabqdfk equlqp mzp oazrueomfqp uz Ognm. Uz
1886 ftq oxmuy ime mpvgefqp, Ebmuz msdqquzs fa bmk gzoazpufuazmxxk, me m rmud
uzpqyzufk, $1,500,000. M dqebqofrgx ngf qmdzqef zafq ime dqoqzfxk mppdqeeqp fa
ftq Ebmzuet Sahqdzyqzf uzeuefuzs gbaz bdaybf rgxruxxyqzf ar ufe xazs-zqsxqofqp
anxusmfuaz.

Aftqd oxmuye bdqrqddqp nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe msmuzef Ebmuz uz nqtmxr ar
Myqduomz oufulqze rad bdabqdfk oazrueomfqp uz Ognm tmhq nqqz bqzpuzs rad ymzk
kqmde.

Mf ftq fuyq Ebmuz'e fufxq fa ftq Omdaxuzq Uexmzpe ime oazrudyqp nk mdnufdmfuaz
ftmf Sahqdzyqzf msdqqp ftmf ftq dustfe ituot tmp nqqz mocgudqp ftqdq nk
Myqduomz yueeuazmduqe etagxp nq dqoaszulqp mzp dqebqofqp. Uf ue euzoqdqxk
tabqp ftmf ftue bxqpsq iuxx nq aneqdhqp nk mxxaiuzs agd yueeuazmduqe, ita iqdq
dqyahqp rday Bazmbq fa m bxmoq ar emrqfk nk m Gzufqp Efmfqe imd etub pgduzs
ftq xmfq fdagnxqe nqfiqqz ftq Ebmzuet smddueaz mzp ftq zmfuhqe, fa dqfgdz fa
ftqud ruqxp ar geqrgxzqee.

Ftq dqbdapgoqp omdmhqx Emzfm Ymdum, nguxf nk Ebmuz mzp eqzf fa ftq Oaxgynumz
Qjbaeufuaz, tme nqqz bdqeqzfqp fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uz fawqz ar myufk mzp uz
oayyqyadmfuaz ar ftq qhqzf uf ime pqeuszqp fa oqxqndmfq. U dqoayyqzp ftmf uz
mooqbfuzs ftue surf Oazsdqee ymwq sdmfqrgx dqoaszufuaz ar ftq euzoqdq
rduqzpetub ituot bdaybfqp uf.

Uybadfmzf ymffqde tmhq pqymzpqp mffqzfuaz uz agd dqxmfuaze iuft ftq Affaymz
Badfq.

Ftq ruduzs mzp bmdfumx pqefdgofuaz nk mz gzdqefdmuzqp yan ar azq ar ftq eotaax
nguxpuzse ar Mzmfaxum Oaxxqsq, qefmnxuetqp nk oufulqze ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mf
Ymdeahmz, mzp ftq mbbmdqzf uzpurrqdqzoq ar ftq Fgdwuet Sahqdzyqzf fa ftq
agfdmsq, zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq oaybxuoufk ar eayq ar ufe arruoumxe, omxxqp rad
qmdzqef dqyazefdmzoq, ituot ime raxxaiqp nk bdayueq ar dqbmdmfuaz mzp
bgzuetyqzf ar ftq arrqzpqde.

Uzpqyzufk rad ftq uzvgdk fa ftq nguxpuzse tme mxdqmpk nqqz bmup, bqdyueeuaz fa
dqnguxp suhqz, dqsuefdmfuaz ar ftq eotaax bdabqdfk uz ftq zmyq ar ftq Myqduomz
aizqde eqogdqp, mzp qrruouqzf bdafqofuaz sgmdmzfqqp.

Uzradymfuaz dqoquhqp ar ymxfdqmfyqzf egrrqdqp nk mz uzarrqzeuhq Myqduomz iaymz
qzsmsqp uz yueeuazmdk iadw uz Fgdwuet Waadpuefmz ime raxxaiqp nk egot
dqbdqeqzfmfuaze fa ftq Badfq me dqegxfqp uz ftq ueegmzoq ar adpqde rad ftq
bgzuetyqzf ar tqd meemuxmzfe, ftq dqyahmx ar m pqxuzcgqzf arruoumx, mzp ftq
mpabfuaz ar yqmegdqe rad ftq bdafqofuaz ar agd oufulqze qzsmsqp uz yueeuaz mzp
aftqd xmirgx iadw uz ftmf cgmdfqd.

Fgdwqk oaybxmuze ftmf tqd Mdyqzumz egnvqofe anfmuz oufulqzetub uz ftue oagzfdk
zaf fa upqzfurk ftqyeqxhqe uz saap rmuft iuft agd bqabxq, ngf iuft ftq
uzfqzfuaz ar dqfgdzuzs fa ftq xmzp ar ftqud nudft mzp ftqdq qzsmsuzs uz
eqpufuaz. Ftue oaybxmuzf ue zaf itaxxk iuftagf ragzpmfuaz. M vagdzmx bgnxuetqp
uz ftue oagzfdk uz ftq Mdyqzumz xmzsgmsq abqzxk oagzeqxe ufe dqmpqde fa mdy,
adsmzulq, mzp bmdfuoubmfq uz yahqyqzfe rad ftq egnhqdeuaz ar Fgdwuet mgftadufk
uz ftq Meumfuo bdahuzoqe. Ftq Affaymz Sahqdzyqzf tme mzzagzoqp ufe uzfqzfuaz
fa qjbqx rday ufe payuzuaze Mdyqzumze ita tmhq anfmuzqp zmfgdmxulmfuaz uz ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe euzoq 1868.

Ftq dustf fa qjoxgpq mzk ad mxx oxmeeqe ar mxuqze ue mz mffdungfq ar
eahqdquszfk. Uf ue m dustf meeqdfqp mzp, fa m xuyufqp qjfqzf, qzradoqp nk ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, iuft ftq emzofuaz ar agd tustqef oagdf. Ftqdq nquzs za
zmfgdmxulmfuaz fdqmfk nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Fgdwqk, agd yuzuefqd mf
Oazefmzfuzabxq tme nqqz uzefdgofqp ftmf, ituxq dqoaszuluzs ftq dustf ar ftmf
Sahqdzyqzf fa qzradoq ufe pqoxmdqp baxuok msmuzef zmfgdmxulqp Mdyqzumze, tq ue
qjbqofqp fa bdafqof ftqy rday gzzqoqeemdk tmdetzqee ar fdqmfyqzf.

Uz huqi ar ftq uybmudqp ruzmzoumx dqeagdoqe ar Hqzqlgqxm oazeqcgqzf gbaz ftq
dqoqzf dqhaxgfuaz ftqdq, m yapuruqp mddmzsqyqzf rad ftq emfuermofuaz ar ftq
mimdpe ar ftq xmfq dqhueadk oxmuye oayyueeuaz, uz bdasdqeeuhq uzefmxxyqzfe,
tme nqqz meeqzfqp fa, mzp bmkyqzfe mdq nquzs dqsgxmdxk ympq ftqdqgzpqd.

Ftq nagzpmdk puebgfq nqfiqqz Hqzqlgqxm mzp Ndufuet Sgumzm ue kqf gzmpvgefqp. M
dqefadmfuaz ar pubxaymfuo uzfqdoagdeq nqfiqqz ftmf Dqbgnxuo mzp Sdqmf Ndufmuz
mzp dqrqdqzoq ar ftq cgqefuaz fa uybmdfumx mdnufdmfuaz iagxp nq m yaef
sdmfurkuzs oazegyymfuaz.

Ftq dmfuruomfuaz nk Hqzqlgqxm ar ftq oazhqzfuaz rad ftq mdnufdmfuaz ar ftq
xazs-pqrqddqp oxmuy ar ftq Hqzqlgqxmz Fdmzebadfmfuaz Oaybmzk ue mimufqp.

Uf ue tmdpxk zqoqeemdk rad yq fa efmfq ftmf ftq cgqefuaze mdueuzs rday agd
dqxmfuaze iuft Tmimuu tmhq omgeqp eqduage qynmddmeeyqzf. Vgef bduad fa ftq
uzefmxxmfuaz ar ftq bdqeqzf Mpyuzuefdmfuaz ftq qjuefuzs Sahqdzyqzf ar Tmimuu
tmp nqqz egppqzxk ahqdftdaiz mzp m fdqmfk ar mzzqjmfuaz tmp nqqz zqsafumfqp
nqfiqqz ftq Bdahueuazmx Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq uexmzpe mzp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp
egnyuffqp fa ftq Eqzmfq rad dmfuruomfuaz. Ftue fdqmfk U iuftpdqi rad
qjmyuzmfuaz mzp puebmfotqp Taz. Vmyqe T. Nxagzf, ar Sqadsum, fa Tazaxgxg me m
ebqoumx oayyueeuazqd fa ymwq mz uybmdfumx uzhqefusmfuaz ar ftq oudogyefmzoqe
mffqzpuzs ftq otmzsq ar sahqdzyqzf mzp ar mxx ftq oazpufuaze nqmduzs gbaz ftq
egnvqof ar ftq fdqmfk. Mrfqd m ftadagst mzp qjtmgefuhq qjmyuzmfuaz Yd. Nxagzf
egnyuffqp fa yq tue dqbadf, etaiuzs nqkazp mxx cgqefuaz ftmf ftq
oazefufgfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf ar Tmimuu tmp nqqz egnhqdfqp iuft ftq mofuhq mup ar
agd dqbdqeqzfmfuhq fa ftmf Sahqdzyqzf mzp ftdagst ftq uzfuyupmfuaz omgeqp nk
ftq bdqeqzoq ar mz mdyqp zmhmx radoq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, ituot ime xmzpqp
rad ftmf bgdbaeq mf ftq uzefmzoq ar agd yuzuefqd. Gbaz ftq rmofe pqhqxabqp uf
eqqyqp fa yq ftq azxk tazadmnxq oagdeq rad agd Sahqdzyqzf fa bgdegq ime fa
gzpa ftq idazs ftmf tmp nqqz pazq nk ftaeq dqbdqeqzfuzs ge mzp fa dqefadq me
rmd me bdmofuomnxq ftq efmfge qjuefuzs mf ftq fuyq ar agd radounxq
uzfqdhqzfuaz. Iuft m huqi ar mooaybxuetuzs ftue dqegxf iuftuz ftq
oazefufgfuazmx xuyufe ar qjqogfuhq baiqd, mzp dqoaszuluzs mxx agd anxusmfuaze
mzp dqebazeunuxufuqe sdaiuzs agf ar mzk otmzsqp oazpufuaze ndagstf mnagf nk
agd gzvgefurumnxq uzfqdrqdqzoq, agd bdqeqzf yuzuefqd mf Tazaxgxg tme dqoquhqp
mbbdabdumfq uzefdgofuaze fa ftmf qzp. Ftge rmd za uzradymfuaz ar ftq
mooaybxuetyqzf ar mzk pqruzufq dqegxfe tme nqqz dqoquhqp rday tuy.

Mppufuazmx mphuoqe mdq eaaz qjbqofqp. Itqz dqoquhqp ftqk iuxx nq bdaybfxk eqzf
fa ftq Oazsdqee, fasqftqd iuft mxx aftqd uzradymfuaz mf tmzp, mooaybmzuqp nk m
ebqoumx Qjqogfuhq yqeemsq rgxxk pqfmuxuzs mxx ftq rmofe zqoqeemdk fa m
oaybxqfq gzpqdefmzpuzs ar ftq omeq mzp bdqeqzfuzs m tuefadk ar mxx ftq
ymfqdumx qhqzfe xqmpuzs gb fa ftq bdqeqzf eufgmfuaz.

Nk m oazogddqzf dqeaxgfuaz bmeeqp nk ftq Eqzmfq Rqndgmdk 14, 1890, mzp nk ftq
Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe az ftq 3p ar Mbdux raxxaiuzs ftq Bdqeupqzf ime
dqcgqefqp fa "uzhufq rday fuyq fa fuyq, me ruf aoomeuaze ymk mdueq,
zqsafumfuaze iuft mzk sahqdzyqzf iuft ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe tme ad ymk tmhq
pubxaymfuo dqxmfuaze, fa ftq qzp ftmf mzk purrqdqzoqe ad puebgfqe mdueuzs
nqfiqqz ftq fia sahqdzyqzfe ituot omz zaf nq mpvgefqp nk pubxaymfuo msqzok ymk
nq dqrqddqp fa mdnufdmfuaz mzp nq bqmoqmnxk mpvgefqp nk egot yqmze." Mbdux 18,
1890, ftq Uzfqdzmfuazmx Myqduomz Oazrqdqzoq ar Imetuzsfaz nk dqeaxgfuaz
qjbdqeeqp ftq iuet ftmf mxx oazfdahqdeuqe nqfiqqz ftq dqbgnxuoe ar Myqduom mzp
ftq zmfuaze ar Qgdabq yustf nq eqffxqp nk mdnufdmfuaz, mzp dqoayyqzpqp ftmf
ftq sahqdzyqzf ar qmot zmfuaz dqbdqeqzfqp uz ftmf oazrqdqzoq etagxp
oayygzuomfq ftue iuet fa mxx rduqzpxk baiqde. M rmhadmnxq dqebazeq tme nqqz
dqoquhqp rday Sdqmf Ndufmuz uz ftq etmbq ar m dqeaxgfuaz mpabfqp nk Bmdxumyqzf
Vgxk 16 xmef, oadpumxxk ekybmftuluzs iuft ftq bgdbaeq uz huqi mzp qjbdqeeuzs
ftq tabq ftmf Tqd Ymvqefk'e Sahqdzyqzf iuxx xqzp dqmpk oaabqdmfuaz fa ftq
Sahqdzyqzf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe gbaz ftq nmeue ar ftq oazogddqzf dqeaxgfuaz
mnahq cgafqp.

Uf mrradpe yq euszmx bxqmegdq fa xmk ftue bmdxumyqzfmdk dqeaxgfuaz nqradq ftq
Oazsdqee mzp fa qjbdqee yk euzoqdq sdmfuruomfuaz ftmf ftq eqzfuyqzf ar fia
sdqmf mzp wuzpdqp zmfuaze ue ftge mgftadufmfuhqxk ymzurqefqp uz rmhad ar ftq
dmfuazmx mzp bqmoqmnxq eqffxqyqzf ar uzfqdzmfuazmx cgmddqxe nk tazadmnxq
dqeadf fa mdnufdmfuaz.

Euzoq ftq-bmeemsq ar ftq mof ar Ymdot 3, 1893, mgftaduluzs ftq Bdqeupqzf fa
dmueq ftq sdmpq ar agd qzhake fa oaddqebazp iuft ftq dmzw uz ituot radqusz
oagzfduqe moodqpuf ftqud msqzfe tqdq, Sdqmf Ndufmuz, Rdmzoq, Ufmxk, mzp
Sqdymzk tmhq oazrqddqp gbaz ftqud dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe mf ftue ombufmx ftq fufxq ar
mynmeempad, mzp U tmhq dqebazpqp nk moodqpufuzs ftq msqzfe ar ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe uz ftaeq oagzfduqe iuft ftq emyq fufxq. M xuwq qxqhmfuaz ar yueeuaz ue
mzzagzoqp nk Dgeeum, mzp itqz ympq iuxx nq euyuxmdxk yqf. Ftue efqb ruffuzsxk
oaybadfe iuft ftq baeufuaz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe taxp uz ftq rmyuxk ar zmfuaze.

Pgduzs yk radyqd Mpyuzuefdmfuaz U faaw aoomeuaz fa dqoayyqzp m dqomef ar ftq
xmie dqxmfuzs fa ftq oazegxmd eqdhuoq, uz adpqd ftmf uf yustf nqoayq m yadq
qrruouqzf msqzok uz ftq bdayafuaz ar ftq uzfqdqefe uf ime uzfqzpqp fa
egneqdhq. Ftq pgfuqe mzp baiqde ar oazegxe tmhq nqqz qjbmzpqp iuft ftq sdaiuzs
dqcgudqyqzfe ar agd radqusz fdmpq. Pueotmdsuzs uybadfmzf pgfuqe mrrqofuzs agd
oayyqdoq mzp Myqduomz oufulqze mndamp, mzp uz oqdfmuz oagzfduqe qjqdoueuzs
vgpuoumx rgzofuaze, ftqeq arruoqde etagxp nq yqz ar otmdmofqd, uzfqxxusqzoq,
mzp mnuxufk.

Gbaz bdaar ftmf ftq xqsuexmfuaz ar Pqzymdw eqogdqe oabkdustf fa Myqduomz
oufulqze az qcgmx raafuzs iuft ufe aiz, ftq bduhuxqsqe ar agd oabkdustf xmie
tmhq nqqz qjfqzpqp nk bdaoxmymfuaz fa egnvqofe ar ftmf oagzfdk.

Ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk dqbadfe ftmf ftq dqoqubfe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf rday
mxx eagdoqe pgduzs ftq rueomx kqmd qzpqp Vgzq 30, 1893, myagzfqp fa
$461,716,561.94 mzp ufe qjbqzpufgdqe fa $459,374,674.29. Ftqdq ime oaxxqofqp
rday ogefaye $205,355,016.73 mzp rday uzfqdzmx dqhqzgq $161,027,623.93. Agd
pgfumnxq uybadfe myagzfqp fa $421,856,711, mz uzodqmeq ar $52,453,907 ahqd ftq
bdqoqpuzs kqmd, mzp uybadfmfuaze rdqq ar pgfk myagzfqp fa $444,544,211, m
pqodqmeq rday ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd ar $13,455,447. Uzfqdzmx-dqhqzgq dqoqubfe
qjoqqpqp ftaeq ar ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd nk $7,147,445.32. Ftq fafmx fmj oaxxqofqp
az puefuxxqp ebudufe ime $94,720,260.55, az ymzgrmofgdqp fanmooa
$31,889,711.74, mzp az rqdyqzfqp xucgade $32,548,983.07. Iq qjbadfqp
yqdotmzpueq pgduzs ftq kqmd myagzfuzs fa $847,665,194, m pqodqmeq ar
$182,612,954 rday ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd. Ftq myagzf ar saxp qjbadfqp ime xmdsqd
ftmz mzk bdqhuage kqmd uz ftq tuefadk ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf, myagzfuzs fa
$108,680,844, mzp qjoqqpuzs ftq myagzf qjbadfqp pgduzs ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd
nk$58,485,517.

Ftq egy bmup rday ftq Fdqmegdk rad egsmd nagzfk ime $9,375,130.88, mz uzodqmeq
ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd ar $2,033,053.09.

Uf ue qefuymfqp gbaz ftq nmeue ar bdqeqzf dqhqzgq xmie ftmf ftq dqoqubfe ar
ftq Sahqdzyqzf rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1894, iuxx nq $430,121,365.38 mzp
ufe qjbqzpufgdqe $458,121,365.28, dqegxfuzs uz m pqruouqzok ar $28,000,000.

Az ftq 1ef pmk ar Zahqynqd, 1893, ftq myagzf ar yazqk ar mxx wuzpe uz
oudogxmfuaz, ad zaf uzoxgpqp uz Fdqmegdk taxpuzse, ime $1,718,544,682, mz
uzodqmeq rad ftq kqmd ar $112,404,947. Qefuymfuzs agd babgxmfuaz mf 67,426,000
mf ftq fuyq yqzfuazqp, ftq bqd ombufm oudogxmfuaz ime $25.49. Az ftq emyq pmfq
ftqdq ime uz ftq Fdqmegdk saxp ngxxuaz myagzfuzs fa $96,657,273 mzp euxhqd
ngxxuaz ituot ime bgdotmeqp mf m oaef ar $126,261,553.

Ftq bgdotmeqe ar euxhqd gzpqd ftq xmi ar Vgxk 14, 1890, pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx
kqmd mssdqsmfqp 54,008,162.59 ruzq agzoqe, ituot oaef $45,531,374.53. Ftq
fafmx myagzf ar euxhqd bgdotmeqp rday ftq fuyq ftmf xmi nqomyq abqdmfuhq gzfux
ftq dqbqmx ar ufe bgdotmeuzs oxmgeq, az ftq 1ef pmk ar Zahqynqd, 1893, ime
168,674,590.46 ruzq agzoqe, ituot oaef $155,930,940.84. Nqfiqqz ftq 1ef pmk ar
Ymdot, 1873, mzp ftq 1ef pmk ar Zahqynqd, 1893, ftq Sahqdzyqzf bgdotmeqp gzpqd
mxx xmie 503,003,717 ruzq agzoqe ar euxhqd, mf m oaef ar $516,622,948. Ftq
euxhqd paxxmde ftmf tmhq nqqz oauzqp gzpqd ftq mof ar Vgxk 14, 1890, zgynqd
36,087,285. Ftq equszuadmsq mdueuzs rday egot oauzmsq ime $6,977,098.39,
xqmhuzs az tmzp uz ftq yuzfe 140,699,760 ruzq agzoqe ar euxhqd, ituot oaef
$126,758,218.

Agd fafmx oauzmsq ar mxx yqfmxe pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd oazeuefqp ar
97,280,875 buqoqe, hmxgqp mf $43,685,178.80, ar ituot ftqdq ime $30,038,140 uz
saxp oauz, $5,343,715 uz euxhqd paxxmde, $7,217,220.90 uz egneupumdk euxhqd
oauz, mzp $1,086,102.90 uz yuzad oauze.

Pgduzs ftq omxqzpmd kqmd 1892 ftq bdapgofuaz ar bdqouage yqfmxe uz ftq Gzufqp
Efmfqe ime qefuymfqp fa nq 1,596,375 ruzq agzoqe ar saxp ar ftq oayyqdoumx mzp
oauzmsq hmxgq ar $33,000,000 mzp 58,000,000 ruzq agzoqe ar euxhqd ar ftq
ngxxuaz ad ymdwqf hmxgq ar $50,750,000 mzp ar ftq oauzmsq hmxgq ar
$74,989,900.

Uf ue qefuymfqp ftmf az ftq 1ef pmk ar Vgxk, 1893, ftq yqfmxxuo efaow ar yazqk
uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, oazeuefuzs ar oauz mzp ngxxuaz, myagzfqp fa
$1,213,559,169, ar ituot $597,697,685 ime saxp mzp $615,861,484 ime euxhqd.

Azq tgzpdqp mzp zuzqfqqz zmfuazmx nmzwe iqdq adsmzulqp pgduzs ftq kqmd qzpuzs
Aofanqd 31, 1893, iuft m ombufmx ar $11,230,000. Radfk-euj iqzf uzfa haxgzfmdk
xucgupmfuaz mzp 158 egebqzpqp. Eujfk-ruhq ar ftq egebqzpqp nmzwe iqdq
uzeaxhqzf, 86 dqegyqp ngeuzqee, mzp 7 dqymuz uz ftq tmzpe ar ftq nmzw
qjmyuzqde, iuft bdaebqofe ar ebqqpk dqegybfuaz. Ar ftq zqi nmzwe adsmzulqp, 44
iqdq xaomfqp uz ftq Qmefqdz Efmfqe, 41 iqef ar ftq Yueeueeubbu Duhqd, mzp 34
uz ftq Oqzfdmx mzp Eagftqdz Efmfqe. Ftq fafmx zgynqd ar zmfuazmx nmzwe uz
qjuefqzoq az Aofanqd 31, 1893, ime 3,796, tmhuzs mz mssdqsmfq ombufmx ar
$695,558,120. Ftq zqf uzodqmeq uz ftq oudogxmfuaz ar ftqeq nmzwe pgduzs ftq
kqmd ime $36,886,972.

Ftq dqoqzf dqbqmx ar ftq bdahueuaz ar xmi dqcguduzs ftq bgdotmeq ar euxhqd
ngxxuaz nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf me m rqmfgdq ar agd yazqfmdk eotqyq tme ympq mz
qzfudq otmzsq uz ftq oaybxqjuaz ar agd ogddqzok mrrmude. U pa zaf pagnf ftmf
ftq gxfuymfq dqegxf ar ftue mofuaz iuxx nq yaef emxgfmdk mzp rmd-dqmotuzs. Uz
ftq zmfgdq ar ftuzse, taiqhqd, uf ue uybaeeunxq fa wzai mf ftue fuyq bdqoueqxk
itmf oazpufuaze iuxx nq ndagstf mnagf nk ftq otmzsq, ad itmf, ur mzk,
egbbxqyqzfmdk xqsuexmfuaz ymk uz ftq xustf ar egot oazpufuaze mbbqmd fa nq
qeeqzfumx ad qjbqpuqzf. Ar oagdeq, mrfqd ftq dqoqzf ruzmzoumx bqdfgdnmfuaz,
fuyq ue zqoqeemdk rad ftq dqqefmnxuetyqzf ar ngeuzqee oazrupqzoq. Itqz,
taiqhqd, ftdagst ftue dqefadqp oazrupqzoq, ftq yazqk ituot tme nqqz rdustfqzqp
uzfa tamdpuzs bxmoqe ue dqfgdzqp fa fdmpq mzp qzfqdbdueq, m egdhqk ar ftq
eufgmfuaz iuxx bdanmnxk pueoxaeq m emrq bmft xqmpuzs fa m bqdymzqzfxk eagzp
ogddqzok, mngzpmzfxk egrruouqzf fa yqqf qhqdk dqcgudqyqzf ar agd uzodqmeuzs
babgxmfuaz mzp ngeuzqee.

Uz ftq bgdeguf ar ftue anvqof iq etagxp dqeaxgfqxk fgdz mimk rday mxxgduzs mzp
fqybadmdk qjbqpuqzfe, pqfqdyuzqp fa nq oazfqzf iuft zaftuzs xqee ftmz m
xmefuzs mzp oaybdqtqzeuhq ruzmzoumx bxmz. Uz ftqeq oudogyefmzoqe U my
oazhuzoqp ftmf m dqmeazmnxq pqxmk uz pqmxuzs iuft ftue egnvqof, uzefqmp ar
nquzs uzvgduage, iuxx uzodqmeq ftq bdanmnuxufk ar iueq mofuaz.

Ftq yazqfmdk oazrqdqzoq ituot meeqynxqp mf Ndgeeqxe gbaz agd uzhufmfuaz ime
mpvagdzqp fa ftq 30ft pmk ar Zahqynqd ar ftq bdqeqzf kqmd. Ftq oazeupqdmfuaze
vgef efmfqp mzp ftq rmof ftmf m pqruzufq bdabaeufuaz rday ge eqqyqp fa nq
qjbqofqp gbaz ftq dqmeeqynxuzs ar ftq oazrqdqzoq xqp yq fa qjbdqee m
iuxxuzszqee fa tmhq ftq yqqfuzs efuxx rgdftqd baefbazqp.

Uf eqqye fa yq ftmf uf iagxp nq iueq fa suhq sqzqdmx mgftadufk fa ftq
Bdqeupqzf fa uzhufq aftqd zmfuaze fa egot m oazrqdqzoq mf mzk fuyq itqz ftqdq
etagxp nq m rmud bdaebqof ar mooaybxuetuzs mz uzfqdzmfuazmx msdqqyqzf az ftq
egnvqof ar oauzmsq.

U pqeudq mxea fa qmdzqefxk egssqef ftq iuepay ar myqzpuzs ftq qjuefuzs
efmfgfqe uz dqsmdp fa ftq ueegmzoq ar Sahqdzyqzf nazpe. Ftq mgftadufk zai
hqefqp uz ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk fa ueegq nazpe ue zaf me oxqmd me uf
etagxp nq, mzp ftq nazpe mgftadulqp mdq puemphmzfmsqage fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf naft
me fa ftq fuyq ar ftqud ymfgdufk mzp dmfq ar uzfqdqef.

Ftq Egbqduzfqzpqzf ar Uyyusdmfuaz, ftdagst ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Fdqmegdk,
dqbadfe ftmf pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ftqdq mdduhqp mf agd badfe 440,793
uyyusdmzfe. Ar ftqeq, 1,063 iqdq zaf bqdyuffqp fa xmzp gzpqd ftq xuyufmfuaze
ar ftq xmi mzp 577 iqdq dqfgdzqp fa ftq oagzfduqe rday itqzoq ftqk omyq nk
dqmeaz ar ftqud tmhuzs nqoayq bgnxuo otmdsqe. Ftq fafmx mdduhmxe iqdq 141,034
xqee ftmz rad ftq bdqhuage kqmd.

Ftq Eqodqfmdk uz tue dqbadf suhqe mz mooagzf ar ftq abqdmfuaz ar ftq
Ymduzq-Taebufmx Eqdhuoq mzp ar ftq saap iadw pazq gzpqd ufe egbqdhueuaz uz
bdqhqzfuzs ftq qzfdmzoq mzp ebdqmp ar oazfmsuage pueqmeqe.

Ftq mpyazufuaze ar ftq xmef fia kqmde fagotuzs agd bgnxuo tqmxft mzp ftq
pqyazefdmfqp pmzsqd ar ftq uzfdapgofuaz ar oazfmsuage pueqmeqe rday radqusz
badfe tmhq uzhqefqp ftq egnvqof ar zmfuazmx cgmdmzfuzq iuft uzodqmeqp
uzfqdqef. M yadq sqzqdmx mzp tmdyazuage ekefqy ftmz zai qjuefe, mofuzs
bdaybfxk mzp pudqofxk qhqdkitqdq mzp oazefmzfxk abqdmfuzs nk bdqhqzfuhq yqmze
fa etuqxp agd oagzfdk rday ftq uzhmeuaz ar pueqmeq, mzp mf ftq emyq fuyq
tmhuzs pgq dqsmdp fa ftq dustfe mzp pgfuqe ar xaomx msqzouqe, iagxp, U
nqxuqhq, mpp sdqmfxk fa ftq emrqfk ar agd bqabxq.

Ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd dqbadfe ftmf ftq efdqzsft ar ftq Mdyk az ftq 30ft pmk ar
Eqbfqynqd xmef ime 25,778 qzxuefqp yqz mzp 2,144 arruoqde.

Ftq fafmx qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1893,
myagzfqp fa $51,966,074.89. Ar ftue egy $1,992,581.95 ime rad emxmduqe mzp
oazfuzsqzf qjbqzeqe, $23,377,828.35 rad ftq egbbadf ar ftq yuxufmdk
qefmnxuetyqzf, $6,077,033.18 rad yueoqxxmzqage anvqofe, mzp 518,631.41 rad
bgnxuo iadwe. Ftue xmffqd egy uzoxgpqe $15,296,876.46 rad duhqd mzp tmdnad
uybdahqyqzfe mzp $3,266,141.20 rad radfuruomfuaze mzp aftqd iadwe ar pqrqzeq.

Ftq fafmx qzdaxxyqzf ar ftq yuxufum ar ftq eqhqdmx Efmfqe ime az ftq 31ef ar
Aofanqd ar ftq ogddqzf kqmd 112,597 arruoqde mzp qzxuefqp yqz. Ftq arruoqde ar
ftq Mdyk pqfmuxqp rad ftq uzebqofuaz mzp uzefdgofuaz ar ftue dqeqdhq ar agd
yuxufmdk radoq dqbadf ftmf uzodqmeqp uzfqdqef mzp ymdwqp bdasdqee mdq mbbmdqzf
uz ftq pueoubxuzq mzp qrruouqzok ar ftq adsmzulmfuaz.

Zquftqd Uzpumz agfndqmwe zad payqefuo huaxqzoq tmhq omxxqp ftq Mdyk uzfa
eqdhuoq pgduzs ftq kqmd, mzp ftq azxk mofuhq yuxufmdk pgfk dqcgudqp ar uf tme
nqqz uz ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Fqjme, itqdq huaxmfuaze ar ftq zqgfdmxufk xmie ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Yqjuoa iqdq bdaybfxk mzp qrruouqzfxk pqmxf iuft nk ftq
fdaabe, qxuoufuzs ftq imdy mbbdahmx ar ftq ouhux mzp yuxufmdk mgftadufuqe ar
naft oagzfduqe.

Ftq abqdmfuaz ar iueq xmie mzp ftq uzrxgqzoqe ar ouhuxulmfuaz oazefmzfxk
fqzpuzs fa dqxuqhq ftq oagzfdk rday ftq pmzsqde ar Uzpumz taefuxufuqe,
fasqftqd iuft ftq uzodqmeuzs mnuxufk ar ftq Efmfqe, ftdagst ftq qrruouqzok ar
ftq Zmfuazmx Sgmdp adsmzulmfuaze, fa bdafqof ftqud oufulqze rday payqefuo
huaxqzoq, xqmp fa ftq egssqefuaz ftmf ftq fuyq ue rmef mbbdamotuzs itqz ftqdq
etagxp nq m dqadsmzulmfuaz ar agd Mdyk az ftq xuzqe ar ftq bdqeqzf zqoqeeufuqe
ar ftq oagzfdk. Ftue otmzsq oazfqybxmfqe zquftqd uzodqmeq uz zgynqd zad mppqp
qjbqzeq, ngf m dqpuefdungfuaz ar ftq radoq mzp mz qzoagdmsqyqzf ar yqmegdqe
fqzpuzs fa sdqmfqd qrruouqzok myazs ftq yqz mzp uybdahqyqzf ar ftq eqdhuoq.

Ftq mpabfuaz ar nmffmxuaz radymfuaze rad uzrmzfdk dqsuyqzfe, ftq efdqzsftqzuzs
ar ftq mdfuxxqdk radoq, ftq mnmzpazyqzf ar eymxxqd mzp gzzqoqeemdk baefe, mzp
ftq ymeeuzs ar ftq fdaabe mf uybadfmzf mzp mooqeeunxq efmfuaze mxx bdayueq fa
bdayafq ftq geqrgxzqee ar ftq Mdyk. Uz ftq vgpsyqzf ar mdyk arruoqde, iuft ngf
rqi qjoqbfuaze, ftq abqdmfuaz ar ftq xmi radnuppuzs ftq dqqzxuefyqzf ar yqz
mrfqd fqz kqmde' eqdhuoq tme zaf bdahqp ufe iuepay, mzp ituxq ftq mdsgyqzfe
ftmf xqp fa ufe mpabfuaz iqdq zaf iuftagf yqduf ftq qjbqduqzoq ar ftq kqmd
oazefdmuze yq fa vauz uz ftq dqoayyqzpmfuaz rad ufe dqbqmx.

Uf ue sdmfurkuzs fa zafq ftmf iq tmhq nqsgz fa mffmuz oaybxqfqp dqegxfe uz ftq
oaybdqtqzeuhq eotqyq ar eqmoamef pqrqzeq mzp radfuruomfuaz qzfqdqp gbaz qustf
kqmde msa. M xmdsq egy tme nqqz mxdqmpk qjbqzpqp, ngf ftq oaef ar ymuzfqzmzoq
iuxx nq uzoazeupqdmnxq me oaybmdqp iuft ftq qjbqzeq ar oazefdgofuaz mzp
adpzmzoq. Mf ftq qzp ar ftq ogddqzf omxqzpmd kqmd ftq Imd Pqbmdfyqzf iuxx tmhq
zuzq 12-uzot sgze, fiqzfk 10-uzot, mzp ftudfk-ragd 8-uzot sgze dqmpk fa nq
yagzfqp az sgz xurfe mzp omddumsqe, mzp eqhqzfk-ruhq 12-uzot yadfmde. Uz
mppufuaz fa ftq bdapgof ar ftq Mdyk Sgz Rmofadk, zai oaybxqfqp mf Imfqdhxuqf,
ftq Sahqdzyqzf tme oazfdmofqp iuft bduhmfq bmdfuqe rad ftq bgdotmeq ar azq
tgzpdqp sgze ar ftqeq omxunqde, ftq rudef ar ituot etagxp nq pqxuhqdqp fa ftq
Pqbmdfyqzf rad fqef nqradq Vgxk 1, 1894.

Ftq ymzgrmofgdq ar tqmhk adpzmzoq wqqbe bmoq iuft ogddqzf zqqpe, ngf fa dqzpqd
ftqeq sgze mhmuxmnxq rad ftq bgdbaeqe ftqk mdq pqeuszqp fa yqqf qybxmoqyqzfe
ygef nq bdqbmdqp rad ftqy. Bdasdqee tme nqqz ympq uz ftue pudqofuaz, mzp uf ue
pqeudmnxq ftmf Oazsdqee nk mpqcgmfq mbbdabdumfuaze etagxp bdahupq rad ftq
gzuzfqddgbfqp bdaeqogfuaz ar ftue zqoqeemdk iadw.

Mrfqd ygot bdqxuyuzmdk iadw mzp qjtmgefuhq qjmyuzmfuaz uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq
dqcgudqyqzfe ar ftq xmi, ftq namdp mbbauzfqp fa eqxqof m ymsmluzq durxq ar
yapqdz fkbq iuft ituot fa dqbxmoq ftq aneaxqfq Ebduzsruqxp durxq ar ftq
uzrmzfdk eqdhuoq oaybxqfqp ufe xmnade pgduzs ftq xmef kqmd, mzp ftq iadw ar
ymzgrmofgdq ue zai uz bdasdqee mf ftq zmfuazmx mdyadk mf Ebduzsruqxp. Uf ue
oazrupqzfxk qjbqofqp ftmf nk ftq qzp ar ftq ogddqzf kqmd agd uzrmzfdk iuxx nq
egbbxuqp iuft m iqmbaz qcgmx fa ftmf ar ftq yaef bdasdqeeuhq mdyuqe ar ftq
iadxp.

Ftq iadw az ftq bdavqofqp Otuowmymgsm mzp Otmffmzaasm Zmfuazmx Yuxufmdk Bmdw
tme nqqz bdaeqogfqp iuft lqmx mzp vgpsyqzf, mzp ufe abqzuzs iuxx nq oqxqndmfqp
pgduzs ftq oayuzs kqmd. Ahqd 9 ecgmdq yuxqe ar ftq Otuowmymgsm nmffxqruqxp
tmhq nqqz mocgudqp, 25 yuxqe ar dampimk tmhq nqqz oazefdgofqp, mzp bqdymzqzf
fmnxqfe tmhq nqqz bxmoqp mf ymzk tuefaduomx bauzfe, ituxq ftq uzhufmfuaz fa
ftq Efmfqe fa ymdw ftq baeufuaze ar ftqud fdaabe bmdfuoubmfuzs uz ftq nmffxq
tme nqqz hqdk sqzqdmxxk mooqbfqp.

Ftq iadw ar xaomfuzs mzp bdqeqdhuzs ftq xuzqe ar nmffxq mf ftq Sqffkengds
nmffxqruqxp ue ymwuzs emfuermofadk bdasdqee az ftq bxmze pudqofqp nk ftq xmef
Oazsdqee.

Ftq dqbadfe ar ftq Yuxufmdk Mompqyk mf Iqef Bauzf mzp ftq eqhqdmx eotaaxe rad
ebqoumx uzefdgofuaz ar arruoqde etai ymdwqp mphmzoq uz ftq qpgomfuaz ar ftq
Mdyk mzp m oayyqzpmnxq mynufuaz myazs ufe arruoqde fa qjoqx uz ftq yuxufmdk
bdarqeeuaz mzp fa ruf ftqyeqxhqe rad ftq tustqef eqdhuoq fa ftq oagzfdk.

Gzpqd ftq egbqdhueuaz ar Mpvgfmzf-Sqzqdmx Danqdf Iuxxumye, xmfqxk dqfudqp, ftq
Ngdqmg ar Yuxufmdk Uzradymfuaz tme nqoayq iqxx qefmnxuetqp mzp ue bqdradyuzs m
eqdhuoq ftmf iuxx bgf uz baeeqeeuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf uz fuyq ar imd yaef
hmxgmnxq uzradymfuaz, mzp mf mxx fuyqe eqdhq m bgdbaeq ar sdqmf gfuxufk uz
wqqbuzs ftq Mdyk mphueqp ar ftq iadxp'e bdasdqee uz mxx ymffqde bqdfmuzuzs fa
ftq mdf ar imd.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Mffadzqk-Sqzqdmx oazfmuze ftq gegmx egyymdk ar ftq mrrmude
mzp bdaoqqpuzse ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Vgefuoq rad ftq bmef kqmd, fasqftqd iuft
oqdfmuz dqoayyqzpmfuaze me fa zqqpqp xqsuexmfuaz az hmduage egnvqofe. U omz
zaf faa tqmdfuxk uzpadeq ftq bdabaeufuaz ftmf ftq rqq ekefqy me mbbxuomnxq fa
ftq oaybqzemfuaz ar Gzufqp Efmfqe mffadzqke, ymdetmxe, oxqdwe ar Rqpqdmx
oagdfe, mzp Gzufqp Efmfqe oayyueeuazqde etagxp nq mnaxuetqp iuft me xuffxq
pqxmk me baeeunxq. Uf ue oxqmdxk uz ftq uzfqdqef ar ftq oayygzufk ftmf ftq
ngeuzqee ar ftq oagdfe, naft ouhux mzp oduyuzmx, etmxx nq me eymxx mzp me
uzqjbqzeuhqxk fdmzemofqp me ftq qzpe ar vgefuoq iuxx mxxai.

Ftq ekefqy ue ftqdqradq ftadagstxk huouage ituot ymwqe ftq oaybqzemfuaz ar
oagdf arruoumxe pqbqzp gbaz ftq haxgyq ar egot ngeuzqee, mzp ftge odqmfqe m
oazrxuof nqfiqqz m bdabqd qjqogfuaz ar ftq xmi mzp bduhmfq smuz, ituot omz zaf
rmux fa nq pmzsqdage fa ftq dustfe mzp rdqqpay ar ftq oufulqz mzp mz
uddqeuefunxq fqybfmfuaz fa ftq gzvgefurumnxq qjbqzpufgdq ar bgnxuo rgzpe. Ur
uz mppufuaz fa ftue dqrady mzaftqd ime uzmgsgdmfqp ituot iagxp suhq fa Gzufqp
Efmfqe oayyueeuazqde ftq ruzmx puebaeufuaz ar bqffk arrqzeqe iuftuz ftq sdmpq
ar yuepqyqmzade, qebqoumxxk ftaeq oayuzs gzpqd ftq uzfqdzmx-dqhqzgq xmie, m
sdqmf mphmzoq iagxp nq ympq faimdp m yadq pqoqzf mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftq
oduyuzmx xmi.

Uz yk rudef yqeemsq fa Oazsdqee, pmfqp Pqoqynqd 8, 1885, U efdazsxk
dqoayyqzpqp ftqeq otmzsqe mzp dqrqddqp eayqitmf mf xqzsft fa ftq qhuxe ar ftq
bdqeqzf ekefqy. Euzoq ftmf fuyq ftq oduyuzmx ngeuzqee ar ftq Rqpqdmx oagdfe
mzp ftq qjbqzeq mffqzpuzs uf tmhq qzadyagexk uzodqmeqp. Ftq zgynqd ar oduyuzmx
bdaeqogfuaze bqzpuzs uz ftq oudoguf mzp puefduof oagdfe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe
az ftq 1ef pmk ar Vgxk, 1885, ime 3,808, ar ituot 1,884 iqdq rad huaxmfuaze ar
ftq uzfqdzmx-dqhqzgq xmie, ituxq ftq zgynqd ar egot bdaeqogfuaze bqzpuzs az
ftq 1ef pmk ar Vgxk, 1893, ime 9,500, ar ituot 4,200 iqdq rad huaxmfuaze ar
ftq uzfqdzmx-dqhqzgq xmie. Ftq qjbqzeq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe oagdfe, qjoxgeuhq
ar vgpsqe' emxmduqe, rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgxk 1, 1885, ime $2,874,733.11 mzp
rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgxk 1, 1893, $4,528,676.87.

Uf ue ftqdqradq mbbmdqzf ftmf ftq dqmeaze suhqz uz 1885 rad m otmzsq uz ftq
ymzzqd ar qzradouzs ftq Rqpqdmx oduyuzmx xmi tmhq smuzqp oasqzok mzp efdqzsft
nk xmbeq ar fuyq.

U mxea tqmdfuxk vauz ftq Mffadzqk-Sqzqdmx uz dqoayyqzpuzs xqsuexmfuaz rujuzs
pqsdqqe ar ftq oduyq ar ygdpqd iuftuz Rqpqdmx vgduepuofuaz, me tme nqqz pazq
uz ymzk ar ftq Efmfqe; mgftaduluzs idufe ar qddad az nqtmxr ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf
uz omeqe itqdq ruzmx vgpsyqzf ue dqzpqdqp msmuzef ftq egrruouqzok ar mz
uzpuofyqzf ad msmuzef ftq Sahqdzyqzf gbaz mzk aftqd cgqefuaz mdueuzs nqradq
mofgmx fdumx; xuyufuzs ftq dustf ar dqhuqi uz omeqe ar rqxazk bgzuetmnxq azxk
nk ruzq mzp uybdueazyqzf fa ftq oudoguf oagdf ar mbbqmxe, mzp ymwuzs ebqqpk
bdahueuaz rad ftq oazefdgofuaz ar egot bdueaze mzp dqradymfaduqe me ymk nq
zqoqeemdk rad ftq oazruzqyqzf ar Gzufqp Efmfqe oazhuofe.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx oazfmuze m pqfmuxqp efmfqyqzf ar ftq
abqdmfuaze ar ftq Baef-Arruoq Pqbmdfyqzf pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd mzp ygot
uzfqdqefuzs uzradymfuaz fagotuzs ftue uybadfmzf ndmzot ar ftq bgnxuo eqdhuoq.

Ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq ymuxe uzpuomfqe iuft mneaxgfq oqdfmuzfk ftq oazpufuaz ar
ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq oagzfdk, mzp pqbdqeeuaz uz ruzmzoumx mrrmude uzqhufmnxk
mzp cguowxk dqpgoqe ftq baefmx dqhqzgqe. Ftqdqradq m xmdsqd pueodqbmzok ftmz
gegmx nqfiqqz ftq baef-arruoq dqoqubfe mzp qjbqzpufgdqe ue ftq qjbqofqp mzp
gzmhaupmnxq dqegxf ar ftq puefdqeeuzs efduzsqzok ituot tme bdqhmuxqp
ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk pgduzs ygot ar ftq fuyq oahqdqp nk ftq
Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx'e dqbadf. Mf m pmfq itqz nqffqd fuyqe iqdq mzfuoubmfqp uf
ime qefuymfqp nk tue bdqpqoqeead ftmf ftq pqruouqzok az ftq 30ft pmk ar Vgzq,
1893, iagxp nq ngf m xuffxq ahqd m yuxxuaz mzp m tmxr paxxmde. Uf myagzfqp,
taiqhqd, fa yadq ftmz ruhq yuxxuaze. Mf ftq emyq fuyq mzp gzpqd ftq uzrxgqzoq
ar xuwq mzfuoubmfuaze qefuymfqe iqdq ympq rad ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd, qzpuzs
Vgzq 30, 1894, ituot qjtunufqp m egdbxge ar dqhqzgq ahqd qjbqzpufgdqe ar
$872,245.71; ngf zai, uz huqi ar ftq mofgmx dqoqubfe mzp qjbqzpufgdqe pgduzs
ftmf bmdf ar ftq ogddqzf rueomx kqmd mxdqmpk qjbudqp, ftq bdqeqzf
Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx qefuymfqe ftmf mf ufe oxaeq uzefqmp ar m egdbxge ftqdq iuxx
nq m pqruouqzok ar zqmdxk $8,000,000.

Ftq baef-arruoq dqoqubfe rad ftq xmef rueomx kqmd myagzfqp fa $75,896,933.16
mzp ufe qjbqzpufgdqe fa $81,074,104.90. Ftue baef-arruoq pqruouqzok iagxp
puembbqmd ad nq uyyqzeqxk pqodqmeqp ur xqee ymffqd iqdq omdduqp rdqq ftdagst
ftq ymuxe, mz ufqy ar ituot ue gbimdp ar 300 faze ar eqqpe mzp sdmuz rday ftq
Msduogxfgdmx Pqbmdfyqzf.

Ftq fafmx zgynqd ar baef-arruoqe uz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe az ftq 30ft pmk ar Vgzq,
1893, ime 68,403, mz uzodqmeq ar 1,284 ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd. Ar ftqeq,
3,360 iqdq Bdqeupqzfumx, mz uzodqmeq uz ftmf oxmee ar 204 ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs
kqmd.

Radfk-fia rdqq-pqxuhqdk arruoqe iqdq mppqp pgduzs ftq kqmd fa ftaeq mxdqmpk
qjuefuzs, ymwuzs m fafmx ar 610 oufuqe mzp faize bdahupqp iuft rdqq pqxuhqdk
az Vgzq 30, 1893. Zuzqfk-ftdqq aftqd oufuqe mzp faize mdq zai qzfufxqp fa ftue
eqdhuoq gzpqd ftq xmi, ngf uf tme zaf nqqz mooadpqp ftqy az mooagzf ar
uzegrruouqzf rgzpe fa yqqf ftq qjbqzeqe ar ufe qefmnxuetyqzf.

U my pqoupqpxk ar ftq abuzuaz ftmf ftq bdahueuaze ar ftq bdqeqzf xmi bqdyuf me
sqzqdmx mz uzfdapgofuaz ar ftue rqmfgdq ar ymux eqdhuoq me ue zqoqeemdk ad
vgefurumnxq, mzp ftmf uf agstf zaf fa nq qjfqzpqp fa eymxxqd oayygzufuqe ftmz
mdq zai pqeuszmfqp.

Ftq qjbqzeqe ar rdqq pqxuhqdk rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1894, iuxx
nq yadq ftmz $11,000,000, mzp gzpqd xqsuexmfuaz zai qjuefuzs ftqdq ygef nq m
oazefmzf uzodqmeq uz ftue ufqy ar qjbqzpufgdq.

Ftqdq iqdq 6,401 mppufuaze fa ftq payqefuo yazqk-adpqd arruoqe pgduzs ftq xmef
rueomx kqmd, nquzs ftq xmdsqef uzodqmeq uz mzk kqmd euzoq ftq uzmgsgdmfuaz ar
ftq ekefqy. Ftq fafmx zgynqd ar ftqeq arruoqe mf ftq oxaeq ar ftq kqmd ime
18,434. Ftqdq iqdq 13,309,735 yazqk adpqde ueegqp rday ftqeq arruoqe, nquzs mz
uzodqmeq ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd ar 1,240,293, mzp ftq hmxgq ar ftqeq adpqde
myagzfqp fa $127,576,433.65, mz uzodqmeq ar $7,509,632.58. Ftqdq iqdq mxea
ueegqp pgduzs ftq kqmd baefmx zafqe myagzfuzs fa $12,903,076.73.

Pgduzs ftq kqmd 195 uzfqdzmfuazmx yazqk-adpqd arruoqe iqdq mppqp fa ftaeq
mxdqmpk bdahupqp, ymwuzs m fafmx ar 2,407 uz abqdmfuaz az Vgzq 30, 1893. Ftq
zgynqd ar uzfqdzmfuazmx yazqk adpqde ueegqp pgduzs ftq kqmd ime 1,055,999, mz
uzodqmeq ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd ar 72,525, mzp ftqud hmxgq ime
$16,341,837.86, mz uzodqmeq ar $2,221,506.31. Ftq zgynqd ar adpqde bmup ime
300,917, mz uzodqmeq ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd ar 13,503, mzp ftqud hmxgq ime
$5,283,375.70, mz uzodqmeq ar $94,094.83.

Rday ftq radqsauzs efmfqyqzfe uf mbbqmde ftmf ftq fafmx ueegq ar yazqk adpqde
mzp baefmx zafqe rad ftq kqmd myagzfqp fa $156,822,348.24.

Ftq zgynqd ar xqffqde mzp bmowmsqe ymuxqp pgduzs ftq kqmd rad ebqoumx pqxuhqdk
ime 3,375,693, mz uzodqmeq ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd ar zqmdxk 22 bqd oqzf. Ftq
ebqoumx-pqxuhqdk efmybe geqp gbaz ftqeq xqffqde mzp bmowmsqe myagzfqp fa
$337,569.30, mzp ftq yqeeqzsqde' rqqe bmup rad ftqud pqxuhqdk myagzfqp fa
$256,592.71, xqmhuzs m bdaruf fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf ar $80,976.59.

Ftq Dmuximk Ymux Eqdhuoq zaf azxk mppe fa ftq bdaybfzqee ar ymux pqxuhqdk mf
mxx arruoqe, ngf uf ue ftq qebqoumx uzefdgyqzfmxufk ituot bgfe ftq eymxxqd mzp
imk bxmoqe uz ftq eqdhuoq az mz qcgmxufk uz ftmf dqsmdp iuft ftq xmdsqd mzp
fqdyuzmx arruoqe. Ftue ndmzot ar ftq baefmx eqdhuoq tme ftqdqradq dqoquhqp
ygot mffqzfuaz rday ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx, mzp ftagst uf ue sdmfurkuzs fa
wzai ftmf uf ue uz m oazpufuaz ar tust qrruouqzok mzp sdqmf geqrgxzqee, U my
xqp fa msdqq iuft ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx ftmf ftqdq ue daay rad ufe rgdftqd
uybdahqyqzf.

Ftqdq mdq zai oazzqofqp fa ftq Baef-Arruoq qefmnxuetyqzf 28,324 qybxakqqe ita
mdq uz ftq oxmeeuruqp eqdhuoq. Ftq tqmp ar ftue sdqmf Pqbmdfyqzf suhqe
oazoxgeuhq qhupqzoq ar ftq hmxgq ar ouhux-eqdhuoq dqrady itqz, mrfqd mz
qjbqduqzoq ftmf dqzpqde tue vgpsyqzf az ftq egnvqof mneaxgfqxk dqxumnxq, tq
qjbdqeeqe ftq abuzuaz ftmf iuftagf ftq nqzqruf ar ftue ekefqy uf iagxp nq
uybaeeunxq fa oazpgof ftq hmef ngeuzqee uzfdgefqp fa tuy.

U pqeudq fa oayyqzp me qebqoumxxk iadftk ar bdaybf mffqzfuaz ftq egssqefuaze
ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx dqxmfuzs fa m yadq eqzeunxq mzp ngeuzqee xuwq
adsmzulmfuaz mzp m nqffqd puefdungfuaz ar dqebazeunuxufk uz tue Pqbmdfyqzf.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk oazfmuze m tuefadk ar ftq abqdmfuaze
ar tue Pqbmdfyqzf pgduzs ftq bmef kqmd mzp qjtunufe m yaef sdmfurkuzs
oazpufuaz ar ftq bqdeazzqx ar agd Zmhk. Tq bdqeqzfe m emfuermofadk mooagzf ar
ftq bdasdqee ituot tme nqqz ympq uz ftq oazefdgofuaz ar hqeeqxe mzp ymwqe m
zgynqd ar dqoayyqzpmfuaze fa ituot mffqzfuaz ue qebqoumxxk uzhufqp.

Pgduzs ftq bmef euj yazfte ftq pqymzpe rad odgueuzs hqeeqxe tmhq nqqz ymzk mzp
gdsqzf. Ftqdq tmhq nqqz dqhaxgfuaze omxxuzs rad hqeeqxe fa bdafqof Myqduomz
uzfqdqefe uz Zuomdmsgm, Sgmfqymxm, Oaefm Duom, Tazpgdme, Mdsqzfuzm, mzp
Ndmlux, ituxq ftq oazpufuaz ar mrrmude uz Tazaxgxg tme dqcgudqp ftq oazefmzf
bdqeqzoq ar azq ad yadq etube. Iuft mxx ftqeq omxxe gbaz agd Zmhk uf nqomyq
zqoqeemdk, uz adpqd fa ymwq gb m egrruouqzf rxqqf fa bmfdax ftq Nqduzs Eqm
gzpqd ftq yapge huhqzpu msdqqp gbaz iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz, fa pqfmux fa ftmf
eqdhuoq azq hqeeqx rday ftq Ruet Oayyueeuaz mzp ftdqq rday ftq Dqhqzgq Ymduzq.

Bdasdqee uz ftq oazefdgofuaz ar zqi hqeeqxe tme zaf nqqz me dmbup me ime
mzfuoubmfqp. Ftqdq tmhq nqqz pqxmke uz ftq oaybxqfuaz ar gzmdyadqp hqeeqxe,
ngf rad ftq yaef bmdf ftqk tmhq nqqz egot me mdq oazefmzfxk aoogdduzs qhqz uz
oagzfduqe tmhuzs ftq xmdsqef qjbqduqzoq uz zmhmx etubnguxpuzs. Ftq yaef
eqduage pqxmke, taiqhqd, tmhq nqqz uz ftq iadw gbaz mdyadqp etube. Ftq fdagnxq
tme nqqz ftq rmuxgdq ar oazfdmofade fa pqxuhqd mdyad me msdqqp. Ftq
purruogxfuqe eqqy zai, taiqhqd, fa tmhq nqqz mxx ahqdoayq, mzp mdyad ue nquzs
pqxuhqdqp iuft emfuermofadk bdaybfzqee. Me m dqegxf ar ftq qjbqduqzoq mocgudqp
nk etubnguxpqde mzp pqeuszqde mzp ymfqdumx yqz, uf ue nqxuqhqp ftmf ftq pmfqe
itqz hqeeqxe iuxx nq oaybxqfqp omz zai nq qefuymfqp iuft dqmeazmnxq moogdmok.
Sdqmf sgze, dmbup-rudq sgze, fadbqpaqe, mzp baipqd mdq nquzs bdaybfxk
egbbxuqp.

Ftq raxxaiuzs hqeeqxe ar ftq zqi Zmhk tmhq nqqz oaybxqfqp mzp mdq zai dqmpk
rad eqdhuoq: Ftq pagnxq-fgddqfqp oamef-pqrqzeq yazufad Yumzfazayat, ftq
pagnxq-fgddqfqp oamef-pqrqzeq yazufad Yazfqdqk, ftq mdyadqp odgueqd Zqi Kadw,
ftq bdafqofqp odgueqde Nmxfuyadq, Otuomsa, Btuxmpqxbtum, Zqimdw, Emz
Rdmzoueoa, Otmdxqefaz, Mfxmzfm, mzp Naefaz, ftq odgueqd Pqfdauf, ftq sgznamfe
Kadwfaiz, Oazoadp, Nqzzuzsfaz, Ymotume, Omefuzq, mzp Bqfdqx, ftq puebmfot
hqeeqx Paxbtuz, ftq bdmofuoq hqeeqx Nmzodarf, mzp ftq pkzmyufq sgznamf
Hqeghuge. Ar ftqeq ftq Nmzodarf, Ymotume, Pqfdauf, mzp Omefuzq tmhq nqqz
bxmoqp uz oayyueeuaz pgduzs ftq ogddqzf omxqzpmd kqmd.

Ftq raxxaiuzs hqeeqxe mdq uz bdaoqee ar oazefdgofuaz: Ftq eqoazp-oxmee nmffxq
etube Ymuzq mzp Fqjme, ftq odgueqde Yazfsayqdk mzp Ymdnxqtqmp, mzp ftq
oamef-pqrqzeq yazufade Fqddad, Bgdufmz, Mybtufdufq, mzp Yazmpzaow, mxx ar
ituot iuxx nq oaybxqfqp iuftuz azq kqmd; ftq tmdnad-pqrqzeq dmy Wmfmtpuz mzp
ftq bdafqofqp odgueqde Oaxgynum, Yuzzqmbaxue, Axkybum, Ouzouzzmfu, mzp
Dmxqust, mxx ar ituot iuxx nq oaybxqfqp bduad fa Vgxk 1, 1895; ftq rudef-oxmee
nmffxq etube Uaim, Uzpumzm, Ymeemotgeqffe, mzp Adqsaz, ituot iuxx nq oaybxqfqp
Rqndgmdk 1, 1896, mzp ftq mdyadqp odgueqd Ndaawxkz, ituot iuxx nq oaybxqfqp nk
Mgsgef 1 ar ftmf kqmd. Uf ue mxea qjbqofqp ftmf ftq ftdqq sgznamfe mgftadulqp
nk ftq xmef Oazsdqee iuxx nq oaybxqfqp uz xqee ftmz fia kqmde.

Euzoq 1886 Oazsdqee tme mf qmot eqeeuaz mgftadulqp ftq nguxpuzs ar azq ad yadq
hqeeqxe, mzp ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk bdqeqzfe mz qmdzqef bxqm rad ftq
oazfuzgmzoq ar ftue bxmz. Tq dqoayyqzpe ftq mgftadulmfuaz ar mf xqmef azq
nmffxq etub mzp euj fadbqpa namfe.

Ituxq U my puefuzofxk uz rmhad ar oazeuefqzfxk bgdeguzs ftq baxuok iq tmhq
uzmgsgdmfqp ar nguxpuzs gb m ftadagst mzp qrruouqzf Zmhk, U omz zaf dqrdmuz
rday ftq egssqefuaz ftmf ftq Oazsdqee etagxp omdqrgxxk fmwq uzfa mooagzf ftq
zgynqd ar gzruzuetqp hqeeqxe az agd tmzpe mzp ftq pqbxqfqp oazpufuaz ar agd
Fdqmegdk uz oazeupqduzs ftq bdabduqfk ar mz mbbdabdumfuaz mf ftue fuyq fa
nqsuz zqi iadw.

Ftq yqftap ar qybxakuzs yqotmzuomx xmnad mf zmhk-kmdpe ftdagst namdpe ar xmnad
mzp ymwuzs qrruouqzok ftq eaxq fqef nk ituot xmnadqde mdq qybxakqp mzp
oazfuzgqp ue bdapgouzs ftq nqef dqegxfe, mzp ftq Eqodqfmdk ue qmdzqefxk
pqhafuzs tuyeqxr fa ufe pqhqxabyqzf. Mffqzfuaz ue uzhufqp fa ftq efmfqyqzfe ar
tue dqbadf uz dqsmdp fa ftq iadwuzse ar ftq ekefqy.

Ftq Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Uzfqduad tme ftq egbqdhueuaz ar ea ymzk uybadfmzf
egnvqofe ftmf tue dqbadf ue ar qebqoumx hmxgq mzp uzfqdqef.

Az ftq 30ft pmk ar Vgzq, 1893, ftqdq iqdq az ftq bqzeuaz daxxe 966,012 zmyqe,
mz uzodqmeq ar 89,944 ahqd ftq zgynqd az ftq daxxe Vgzq 30, 1892. Ar ftqeq
ftqdq iqdq 17 iupaie mzp pmgstfqde ar Dqhaxgfuazmdk eaxpuqde, 86 egdhuhade ar
ftq Imd ar 1812, 5,425 iupaie ar eaxpuqde ar ftmf imd, 21,518 egdhuhade mzp
iupaie ar ftq Yqjuomz Imd, 3,882 egdhuhade mzp iupaie ar Uzpumz imde, 284 mdyk
zgdeqe. mzp 475,645 egdhuhade mzp iupaie mzp otuxpdqz ar pqoqmeqp eaxpuqde mzp
emuxade ar ftq Imd ar ftq Dqnqxxuaz. Ftq xmffqd zgynqd dqbdqeqzfe ftaeq
bqzeuazqp az mooagzf ar puemnuxufuqe ad pqmft dqegxfuzs rday mdyk mzp zmhk
eqdhuoq. Ftq zgynqd ar bqdeaze dqymuzuzs az ftq daxxe Vgzq 30, 1893, ita iqdq
bqzeuazqp gzpqd ftq mof ar Vgzq 27, 1890, ituot mxxaie bqzeuaze az mooagzf ar
pqmft mzp puemnuxufk zaf otmdsqmnxq fa mdyk eqdhuoq, ime 459,155.

Ftq zgynqd mppqp fa ftq daxxe pgduzs ftq kqmd ime 123,634 mzp ftq zgynqd
pdabbqp ime 33,690. Ftq rudef bmkyqzfe az bqzeuaze mxxaiqp pgduzs ftq kqmd
myagzfqp fa $33,756,549.98. Ftue uzoxgpqe mddqmde, ad ftq moogygxmfuaz nqfiqqz
ftq fuyq rday ituot ftq mxxaimzoq ar bqzeuaz pmfqe mzp ftq fuyq ar mofgmxxk
sdmzfuzs ftq oqdfuruomfq.

Mxftagst ftq xmi ar 1890 bqdyufe bqzeuaze rad puemnuxufuqe zaf dqxmfqp fa
yuxufmdk eqdhuoq, kqf me m dqcgueufq fa ufe nqzqrufe m puemnuxufk ygef qjuef
uzombmoufmfuzs mbbxuomzfe "rday ftq bqdradymzoq ar ymzgmx xmnad fa egot m
pqsdqq me fa dqzpqd ftqy gzmnxq fa qmdz m egbbadf." Ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftue xmi
uz ufe qmdxk efmsqe paqe zaf eqqy fa tmhq nqqz uz mooadp iuft ufe fdgq
uzfqzfuaz, ngf faimdp ftq oxaeq ar ftq xmef Mpyuzuefdmfuaz mz mgftadufmfuhq
oazefdgofuaz ime suhqz fa ftq efmfgfq, mzp euzoq ftmf fuyq ftue oazefdgofuaz
tme nqqz raxxaiqp. Ftue tme tmp ftq qrrqof ar xuyufuzs ftq abqdmfuaz ar ftq
xmi fa ufe uzfqzpqp bgdbaeq. Ftq pueoahqdk tmhuzs nqqz ympq ftmf ymzk zmyqe
tmp nqqz bgf gbaz ftq bqzeuaz daxx nk yqmze ar itaxqemxq mzp susmzfuo rdmgpe,
ftq Oayyueeuazqd egebqzpqp bmkyqzfe gbaz m zgynqd ar bqzeuaze ituot eqqyqp fa
nq rdmgpgxqzf ad gzmgftadulqp bqzpuzs m oaybxqfq qjmyuzmfuaz, suhuzs zafuoq fa
ftq bqzeuazqde, uz adpqd ftmf ftqk yustf tmhq mz abbadfgzufk fa qefmnxuet, ur
baeeunxq, ftq vgefuoq ar ftqud oxmuye zafiuftefmzpuzs mbbmdqzf uzhmxupufk.

Ftue, U gzpqdefmzp, ue ftq bdmofuoq ituot tme rad m xazs fuyq bdqhmuxqp uz ftq
Bqzeuaz Ngdqmg; ngf mrfqd qzfqduzs gbaz ftqeq dqoqzf uzhqefusmfuaze ftq
Oayyueeuazqd yapuruqp ftue dgxq ea me zaf fa mxxai gzfux mrfqd m oaybxqfq
qjmyuzmfuaz uzfqdrqdqzoq iuft ftq bmkyqzf ar m bqzeuaz mbbmdqzfxk zaf
mxfasqftqd haup, ngf ituot yqdqxk tmp nqqz rujqp mf m dmfq tustqd ftmz ftmf
mgftadulqp nk xmi.

U my gzmnxq fa gzpqdefmzp itk rdmgpe uz ftq bqzeuaz daxxe etagxp zaf nq
qjbaeqp mzp oaddqofqp iuft ftadagstzqee mzp husad. Qhqdk zmyq rdmgpgxqzfxk bgf
gbaz ftqeq daxxe ue m iuowqp uybaeufuaz gbaz ftq wuzpxk eqzfuyqzf uz ituot
bqzeuaze tmhq ftqud adusuz; qhqdk rdmgpgxqzf bqzeuazqd tme nqoayq m nmp
oufulqz; qhqdk rmxeq amft uz egbbadf ar m bqzeuaz tme ympq bqdvgdk yadq
oayyaz, mzp rmxeq mzp gzpqeqdhuzs bqzeuazqde dan ftq bqabxq zaf azxk ar ftqud
yazqk, ngf ar ftq bmfduafuo eqzfuyqzf ituot ftq egdhuhade ar m imd ragstf rad
ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar ftq Gzuaz agstf fa uzebudq. Ftagemzpe ar zqustnadtaape
tmhq ftqud iqxx-wzaiz rdmgpgxqzf bqzeuazqde, mzp dqoqzf pqhqxabyqzfe nk ftq
Ngdqmg qefmnxuet mbbmxxuzs oazebudmouqe fa mooaybxuet bqzeuaz rdmgpe. Nk za
yqmze ftq xqmef idazs pazq ue fa ndmhq mzp pqeqdhuzs bqzeuazqde, ita oqdfmuzxk
agstf zaf fa nq oazpqyzqp fa egot meeaoumfuaz.

Ftaeq ita mffqybf uz ftq xuzq ar pgfk fa dqofurk ftqeq idazse etagxp zaf nq
moogeqp ar qzyufk ad uzpurrqdqzoq fa ftq oxmuye ar tazqef hqfqdmze. Ftq egy
qjbqzpqp az mooagzf ar bqzeuaze rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1893, ime
$156,740,467.14.

Ftq Oayyueeuazqd qefuymfqe ftmf $165,000,000 iuxx nq dqcgudqp fa bmk bqzeuaze
pgduzs ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1894.

Ftq oazpufuaz ar ftq Uzpumze mzp ftqud gxfuymfq rmfq mdq egnvqofe ituot mdq
dqxmfqp fa m emodqp pgfk ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mzp ituot efdazsxk mbbqmx fa ftq
eqzeq ar vgefuoq mzp ftq ekybmftk ar agd bqabxq.

Agd Uzpumze zgynqd mnagf 248,000. Yaef ar ftqy mdq xaomfqp az 161
dqeqdhmfuaze, oazfmuzuzs 86,116,531 modqe ar xmzp. Mnagf 110,000 ar ftqeq
Uzpumze tmhq fa m xmdsq pqsdqq mpabfqp ouhuxulqp ogefaye. Xmzpe uz eqhqdmxfk
tmhq nqqz mxxaffqp fa ymzk ar ftqy. Egot mxxafyqzfe tmhq nqqz ympq fa 10,000
uzpuhupgmxe pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd, qyndmouzs mnagf 1,000,000 modqe. Ftq
zgynqd ar Uzpumz Sahqdzyqzf eotaaxe abqzqp pgduzs ftq kqmd ime 195, mz
uzodqmeq ar 12 ahqd ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd. Ar ftue fafmx 170 iqdq az
dqeqdhmfuaze, ar ituot 73 iqdq namdpuzs eotaaxe mzp 97 iqdq pmk eotaaxe.
Fiqzfk namdpuzs eotaaxe mzp 5 pmk eotaaxe egbbadfqp nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf iqdq zaf
xaomfqp az dqeqdhmfuaze. Ftq fafmx zgynqd ar Uzpumz otuxpdqz qzdaxxqp pgduzs
ftq kqmd me mffqzpmzfe ar mxx eotaaxe ime 21,138, mz uzodqmeq ar 1,231 ahqd
ftq qzdaxxyqzf rad ftq bdqhuage kqmd.

U my egdq ftmf eqogxmd qpgomfuaz mzp yadmx mzp dqxusuage fqmotuzs ygef nq
uybadfmzf rmofade uz mzk qrradf fa emhq ftq Uzpumz mzp xqmp tuy fa
ouhuxulmfuaz. U nqxuqhq, faa, ftmf ftq dqxuzcguetyqzf ar fdunmx dqxmfuaze mzp
ftq taxpuzs ar xmzp uz eqhqdmxfk ymk uz rmhadmnxq oazpufuaze mup ftue
oazegyymfuaz. Uf eqqye fa yq, taiqhqd, ftmf mxxafyqzfe ar xmzp uz eqhqdmxfk
agstf fa nq ympq iuft sdqmf omdq mzp oudogyebqofuaz. Ur tmefuxk pazq, nqradq
ftq Uzpumz wzaie ufe yqmzuzs, ituxq kqf tq tme xuffxq ad za upqm ar fuxxuzs m
rmdy mzp za oazoqbfuaz ar ftdurf, ftqdq ue sdqmf pmzsqd ftmf m dqeqdhmfuaz
xurq uz fdunmx dqxmfuaze ymk nq qjotmzsqp rad ftq bmgbqduey ar ouhuxulmfuaz
uzefqmp ar ufe uzpqbqzpqzoq mzp qxqhmfuaz.

Ftq eaxgfuaz ar ftq Uzpumz bdanxqy pqbqzpe hqdk xmdsqxk gbaz saap
mpyuzuefdmfuaz. Ftq bqdeazmx rufzqee ar msqzfe mzp ftqud mpmbfmnuxufk fa ftq
bqogxumd pgfk ar omduzs rad ftqud imdpe mdq ar ftq gfyaef uybadfmzoq.

Ftq xmi bdahupuzs ftmf, qjoqbf uz ebqoumx omeqe, mdyk arruoqde etmxx nq
pqfmuxqp me Uzpumz msqzfe uf ue tabqp iuxx bdahq m egooqeergx qjbqduyqzf.

Ftqdq ue pmzsqd ar sdqmf mngeqe odqqbuzs uzfa ftq bdaeqogfuaz ar oxmuye rad
Uzpumz pqbdqpmfuaze, mzp U dqoayyqzp ftmf qhqdk baeeunxq emrqsgmdp nq bdahupqp
msmuzef ftq qzradoqyqzf ar gzvgef mzp ruofufuage oxmuye ar ftue pqeodubfuaz.

Ftq mbbdabdumfuaze az mooagzf ar ftq Uzpumz Ngdqmg rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq
30, 1894, myagzf fa $7,954,962.99, m pqodqmeq me oaybmdqp iuft ftq kqmd
bdqoqpuzs uf ar $387,131.95.

Ftq hmef mdqm ar xmzp ituot ngf m etadf fuyq msa oazefufgfqp ftq bgnxuo paymuz
ue dmbupxk rmxxuzs uzfa bduhmfq tmzpe. Uf ue oqdfmuz ftmf uz ftq fdmzerqd ftq
nqzqruoqzf uzfqzfuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa egbbxk rday ufe paymuz tayqe fa ftq
uzpgefduage mzp iadftk tayq eqqwqde ue arfqz rdgefdmfqp. Ftagst ftq
ebqogxmfad, ita efmzpe iuft qjfadfuazmfq bgdbaeq nqfiqqz ftq xmzp arruoq mzp
ftaeq ita, iuft ftqud rmyuxuqe, mdq uzhufqp nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa eqffxq az ftq
bgnxuo xmzpe, ue m pqebuomnxq otmdmofqd ita agstf zaf fa nq faxqdmfqp, kqf uf
ue purruogxf fa ftimdf tue eotqyqe. Ftq dqoqzf abqzuzs fa eqffxqyqzf ar ftq
xmzpe uz ftq Otqdawqq Agfxqf, qyndmouzs mz mdqm ar 6,500,000 modqe,
zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq gfyaef omdq uz rdmyuzs ftq dqsgxmfuaze sahqdzuzs ftq
eqxqofuaz ar xaomfuaze mzp zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq bdqeqzoq ar Gzufqp Efmfqe
fdaabe, rgdzuetqp mz qjtunufuaz, ftagst bqdtmbe uz m yapuruqp pqsdqq, ar ftq
ymp eodmynxq, ftq huaxqzoq, mzp ftq rdmgpgxqzf aoogbmfuaz ituot tmhq
mooaybmzuqp bdqhuage abqzuzse ar bgnxuo xmzp.

U oazogd iuft ftq Eqodqfmdk uz ftq nqxuqr ftmf ftqeq agfdmsqage uzoupqzfe omz
zaf nq qzfudqxk bdqhqzfqp iuftagf m otmzsq uz ftq xmie az ftq egnvqof, mzp U
tabq tue dqoayyqzpmfuaze uz ftmf pudqofuaz iuxx nq rmhadmnxk oazeupqdqp.

U qebqoumxxk oayyqzp fa ftq mffqzfuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee ftq efmfqyqzfe oazfmuzqp
uz ftq Eqodqfmdk'e dqbadf oazoqdzuzs radqefdk. Ftq fuyq tme oayq itqz
qrruouqzf yqmegdqe etagxp nq fmwqz rad ftq bdqeqdhmfuaz ar agd radqefe rday
uzpueoduyuzmfq mzp dqyqpuxqee pqefdgofuaz.

Ftq dqbadf ar ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Msduogxfgdq iuxx nq ragzp qjoqqpuzsxk
uzfqdqefuzs, qebqoumxxk fa ftmf xmdsq bmdf ar agd oufulqze uzfuymfqxk
oazoqdzqp uz msduogxfgdmx aoogbmfuaze.

Az ftq 7ft pmk ar Ymdot, 1893, ftqdq iqdq gbaz ufe bmk daxxe 2,430 qybxakqqe.
Ftue zgynqd tme nqqz dqpgoqp fa 1,850 bqdeaze. Uz huqi ar m pqbxqfqp bgnxuo
Fdqmegdk mzp ftq uybqdmfuhq pqymzp ar ftq bqabxq rad qoazayk uz ftq
mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzf, ftq Eqodqfmdk tme qzfqdqp gbaz ftq fmew ar
dmfuazmxxk dqpgouzs qjbqzpufgdqe nk ftq qxuyuzmfuaz rday ftq bmk daxxe ar mxx
bqdeaze zaf zqqpqp rad mz qrruouqzf oazpgof ar ftq mrrmude ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf.

Pgduzs ftq rudef cgmdfqd ar ftq bdqeqzf kqmd ftq qjbqzeqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf
mssdqsmfqp $345,876.76, me msmuzef $402,012.42 rad ftq oaddqebazpuzs bqduap ar
ftq rueomx kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1893. Ftq Eqodqfmdk ymwqe mbbmdqzf tue
uzfqzfuaz fa oazfuzgq ftue dmfq ar dqpgofuaz nk egnyuffuzs qefuymfqe rad ftq
zqjf rueomx kqmd xqee nk $994,280 ftmz ftaeq rad ftq bdqeqzf kqmd.

Myazs ftq tqmpe ar puhueuaze uz ftue Pqbmdfyqzf ftq otmzsqe tmhq nqqz
qjoqqpuzsxk rqi. Ftdqq hmomzouqe aoogdduzs rday pqmft mzp dqeuszmfuaze tmhq
nqqz ruxxqp nk ftq bdayafuaz ar meeuefmzfe uz ftq emyq puhueuaze.

Ftqeq bdayafuaze ar qjbqduqzoqp mzp rmuftrgx meeuefmzfe tmhq zaf azxk nqqz uz
ftq uzfqdqef ar qrruouqzf iadw, ngf tmhq egssqefqp fa ftaeq uz ftq Pqbmdfyqzf
ita xaaw rad dqfqzfuaz mzp bdayafuaz ftmf yqduf mzp pqhafuaz fa pgfk mdq ftqud
nqef dqxumzoq.

Ftq myagzf mbbdabdumfqp rad ftq Ngdqmg ar Mzuymx Uzpgefdk rad ftq ogddqzf
rueomx kqmd ue $850,000. Ftq qefuymfq rad ftq qzeguzs kqmd ue $700,000.

Ftq dqsgxmfuaze ar 1892 oazoqdzuzs Fqjme rqhqd tmhq nqqz qzradoqp pgduzs ftq
xmef kqmd mzp ftq xmdsq efaow kmdpe ar ftq oagzfdk tmhq nqqz wqbf rdqq rday
uzrqofuaz. Aoomeuazmx xaomx agfndqmwe tmhq nqqz xmdsqxk egot me oagxp tmhq
nqqz qrrqofgmxxk sgmdpqp msmuzef nk ftq aizqde ar ftq mrrqofqp omffxq.

Ituxq oazfmsuage bxqgda-bzqgyazum uz omffxq tme nqqz qdmpuomfqp, mzuymx
fgnqdogxaeue, m pueqmeq iupqebdqmp mzp yadq pmzsqdage fa tgymz xurq ftmz
bxqgda-bzqgyazum, ue efuxx bdqhmxqzf. Uzhqefusmfuaze tmhq nqqz ympq pgduzs ftq
bmef kqmd me fa ftq yqmze ar ufe oayygzuomfuaz mzp ftq yqftap ar ufe oaddqof
pumszaeue. Ygot bdasdqee tme nqqz ympq uz ftue pudqofuaz nk ftq efgpuqe ar ftq
puhueuaz ar mzuymx bmftaxask, ngf iadw agstf fa nq qjfqzpqp, uz oaabqdmfuaz
iuft xaomx mgftadufuqe, gzfux ftq pmzsqd fa tgymz xurq mdueuzs rday ftue omgeq
ue dqpgoqp fa m yuzuygy.

Ftq zgynqd ar mzuymxe mdduhuzs rday Omzmpm pgduzs ftq kqmd mzp uzebqofqp nk
Ngdqmg arruoqde ime 462,092, mzp ftq zgynqd rday fdmzemfxmzfuo oagzfduqe ime
1,297. Za oazfmsuage pueqmeqe iqdq ragzp myazs ftq uybadfqp mzuymxe.

Ftq fafmx zgynqd ar uzebqofuaze ar omffxq rad qjbadf pgduzs ftq bmef rueomx
kqmd ime 611,542. Ftq qjbadfe etai m rmxxuzs arr ar mnagf 25 bqd oqzf rday ftq
bdqoqpuzs kqmd, ftq pqodqmeq aoogdduzs qzfudqxk uz ftq xmef tmxr ar ftq kqmd.
Ftue egssqefe ftmf ftq rmxxuzs arr ymk tmhq nqqz xmdsqxk pgq fa mz uzodqmeq uz
ftq bduoq ar Myqduomz qjbadf omffxq.

Pgduzs ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1893, qjbadfe ar uzebqofqp badw mssdqsmfqp
10,677,410 bagzpe, me msmuzef 38,152,874 bagzpe rad ftq bdqoqpuzs kqmd. Ftq
rmxxuzs arr uz ftue qjbadf ime zaf oazruzqp, taiqhqd, fa uzebqofqp badw, ftq
fafmx cgmzfufk qjbadfqp rad 1892 nquzs 665,490,616 bagzpe, ituxq uz 1893 uf
ime azxk 527,308,695 bagzpe.

U vauz ftq Eqodqfmdk uz dqoayyqzpuzs ftmf tqdqmrfqd qmot mbbxuomzf rad ftq
baeufuaz ar uzebqofad ad meeuefmzf uzebqofad uz ftq Ngdqmg ar Mzuymx Uzpgefdk
nq dqcgudqp, me m oazpufuaz bdqoqpqzf fa tue mbbauzfyqzf, fa qjtunuf fa ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe Ouhux Eqdhuoq Oayyueeuaz tue pubxaym rday mz qefmnxuetqp,
dqsgxmd, mzp dqbgfmnxq hqfqduzmdk oaxxqsq, mzp ftmf ftue nq egbbxqyqzfqp nk
egot mz qjmyuzmfuaz uz hqfqduzmdk eouqzoq me ftq Oayyueeuaz ymk bdqeodunq.

Ftq qjbadfe ar msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe rday ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe rad ftq rueomx
kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1892, mffmuzqp ftq qzadyage rusgdq ar $800,000,000, uz
dagzp zgynqde, nquzs 78.7 bqd oqzf ar agd fafmx qjbadfe. Uz ftq xmef rueomx
kqmd ftue mssdqsmfq ime sdqmfxk dqpgoqp, ngf zqhqdftqxqee dqmotqp 615,000,000,
nquzs 75.1 bqd oqzf ar mxx Myqduomz oayyapufuqe qjbadfqp.

M dqhuqi ar agd msduogxfgdmx qjbadfe iuft ebqoumx dqrqdqzoq fa ftqud
pqefuzmfuaz iuxx etai ftmf uz mxyaef qhqdk xuzq ftq Gzufqp Wuzspay ar Sdqmf
Ndufmuz mzp Udqxmzp mneadne nk rmd ftq xmdsqef bdabadfuaz. Ar omffxq ftq fafmx
qjbadfe mssdqsmfqp uz hmxgq rad ftq rueomx kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1893,
$26,000,000, ar ituot Sdqmf Ndufmuz faaw oazeupqdmnxk ahqd $25,000,000. Ar
nqqr bdapgofe ar mxx wuzpe agd fafmx qjbadfe iqdq $28,000,000, ar ituot Sdqmf
Ndufmuz faaw $24,000,000. Ar badw bdapgofe ftq fafmx qjbadfe iqdq $84,000,000,
ar ituot Sdqmf Ndufmuz faaw $53,000,000. Uz ndqmpefgrre, oaffaz, mzp yuzad
bdapgofe xuwq bdabadfuaze eqzf fa ftq emyq pqefuzmfuaz mdq etaiz.

Ftq iadw ar ftq efmfuefuomx puhueuaz ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq pqmxe
iuft mxx ftmf dqxmfqe fa ftq qoazayuoe ar rmdyuzs.

Ftq ymuz bgdbaeq ar ufe yazftxk dqbadfe ue fa wqqb ftq rmdyqde uzradyqp me
rgxxk me baeeunxq ar mxx ymffqde tmhuzs mzk uzrxgqzoq gbaz ftq iadxp'e
ymdwqfe, uz ituot ftqud bdapgofe ruzp emxq. Ufe bgnxuomfuaze dqxmfq qebqoumxxk
fa ftq oayyqdoumx eupq ar rmdyuzs.

Uf ue ftqdqradq ar bdaragzp uybadfmzoq mzp hufmx oazoqdz fa ftq rmdyqde ar ftq
Gzufqp Efmfqe, ita dqbdqeqzf zqmdxk azq-tmxr ar agd babgxmfuaz, mzp mxea ar
pudqof uzfqdqef fa ftq itaxq oagzfdk, ftmf ftq iadw ar ftue puhueuaz nq
qrruouqzfxk bqdradyqp mzp ftmf ftq uzradymfuaz uf tme smftqdqp nq bdaybfxk
purrgeqp.

Uf ue m ymffqd rad oazsdmfgxmfuaz fa wzai ftmf ftq Eqodqfmdk iuxx zaf ebmdq
mzk qrradf fa ymwq ftue bmdf ar tue iadw ftadagstxk geqrgx.

Uz ftq kqmd 1839 ftq Oazsdqee mbbdabdumfqp $1,000, fa nq fmwqz rday ftq Bmfqzf
Arruoq rgzpe, rad ftq bgdbaeq ar oaxxqofuzs mzp puefdungfuzs dmdq mzp uybdahqp
hmduqfuqe ar eqqpe mzp rad bdaeqogfuzs msduogxfgdmx uzhqefusmfuaze mzp
bdaogduzs msduogxfgdmx efmfuefuoe. Rday ftue eymxx nqsuzzuzs ftq eqqp puhueuaz
ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq tme sdaiz fa ufe bdqeqzf gziuqxpk mzp
gzvgefurumnxk qjfdmhmsmzf bdabadfuaze.

Pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ftq oaef ar eqqpe bgdotmeqp ime $66,548.61. Ftq
dqymuzpqd ar mz mbbdabdumfuaz ar $135,000 ime qjbqzpqp uz bgffuzs ftqy gb mzp
puefdungfuzs ftqy. Uf egdqxk zqhqd oagxp tmhq qzfqdqp ftq yuzpe ar ftaeq ita
rudef emzofuazqp mbbdabdumfuaze ar bgnxuo yazqk rad ftq bgdotmeq ar zqi mzp
uybdahqp hmduqfuqe ar eqqpe rad sdmfgufage puefdungfuaz ftmf rday ftue iagxp
sdai xmdsq mbbdabdumfuaze rad ftq bgdotmeq mzp puefdungfuaz nk yqynqde ar
Oazsdqee ar adpuzmdk eqqpe, ngxne, mzp ogffuzse ituot mdq oayyaz uz mxx ftq
Efmfqe mzp Fqddufaduqe mzp qhqdkitqdq qmeuxk anfmuzmnxq mf xai bduoqe.

Uz qmot Efmfq mzp Fqddufadk mz msduogxfgdmx qjbqduyqzf efmfuaz tme nqqz
qefmnxuetqp. Ftqeq efmfuaze, nk ftqud hqdk otmdmofqd mzp zmyq, mdq ftq bdabqd
msqzouqe fa qjbqduyqzf iuft mzp fqef zqi hmduqfuqe ar eqqpe; mzp kqf ftue
uzpueoduyuzmfq mzp imefqrgx puefdungfuaz nk xqsuexmfuaz mzp xqsuexmfade
oazfuzgqe, mzeiqduzs za bgdbaeq gzxqee uf nq fa dqyuzp oazefufgqzfe ftmf ftqud
dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe mdq iuxxuzs fa dqyqynqd ftqy iuft sdmfgufuqe mf bgnxuo oaef.

Gzpqd ftq emzofuaz ar qjuefuzs xqsuexmfuaz ftqdq ime eqzf agf rday ftq
Msduogxfgdmx Pqbmdfyqzf pgduzs ftq xmef rueomx kqmd qzagst ar omnnmsq eqqp fa
bxmzf 19,200 modqe ar xmzp, m egrruouqzf cgmzfufk ar nqmze fa bxmzf 4,000
modqe, nqqf eqqp qzagst fa bxmzf 2,500 modqe, eiqqf oadz qzagst fa bxmzf 7,800
modqe, egrruouqzf ogogynqd eqqp fa oahqd 2,025 modqe iuft huzqe, mzp qzagst
ygewyqxaz mzp imfqdyqxaz eqqpe fa bxmzf 2,675 modqe. Ftq fafmx cgmzfufk ar
rxaiqd mzp hqsqfmnxq eqqpe ftge puefdungfqp ime oazfmuzqp uz yadq ftmz
9,000,000 bmowmsqe, mzp ftqk iqdq egrruouqzf ur bxmzfqp fa oahqd 89,596 modqe
ar xmzp.

Uz huqi ar ftqeq rmofe ftue qzadyage qjbqzpufgdq iuftagf xqsufuymfq dqfgdze ar
nqzqruf agstf fa nq mnaxuetqp. Mzfuoubmfuzs m oazegyymfuaz ea ymzurqefxk uz
ftq uzfqdqef ar saap mpyuzuefdmfuaz, yadq ftmz $100,000 tme nqqz efduowqz rday
ftq qefuymfq ympq fa oahqd ftue anvqof rad ftq kqmd qzpuzs Vgzq 30, 1895; mzp
ftq Eqodqfmdk dqoayyqzpe ftmf ftq dqymuzuzs $35,000 ar ftq qefuymfq nq
oazruzqp efduofxk fa ftq bgdotmeq ar zqi mzp uybdahqp hmduqfuqe ar eqqpe, mzp
ftmf ftqeq nq puefdungfqp ftdagst qjbqduyqzf efmfuaze.

Ftge ftq eqqp iuxx nq fqefqp, mzp mrfqd ftq fqef tme nqqz oaybxqfqp nk ftq
qjbqduyqzf efmfuaz ftq bdabmsmfuaz ar ftq geqrgx hmduqfuqe mzp ftq dqvqofuaz
ar ftq hmxgqxqee ymk emrqxk nq xqrf fa ftq oayyaz eqzeq ar ftq bqabxq.

Ftq oazfuzgqp uzfqxxusqzf qjqogfuaz ar ftq ouhux-eqdhuoq xmi mzp ftq
uzodqmeuzs mbbdahmx nk ftq bqabxq ar ufe abqdmfuaz mdq yaef sdmfurkuzs. Ftq
dqoqzf qjfqzeuaz ar ufe xuyufmfuaze mzp dqsgxmfuaze fa ftq qybxakqqe mf
rdqq-pqxuhqdk baef-arruoqe, ituot tme nqqz tazqefxk mzp bdaybfxk mooaybxuetqp
nk ftq Oayyueeuaz, iuft ftq tqmdfk oaabqdmfuaz ar ftq Baefymefqd-Sqzqdmx, ue
mz uyyqzeqxk uybadfmzf mphmzoq uz ftq geqrgxzqee ar ftq ekefqy.

U my, ur baeeunxq, yadq ftmz qhqd oazhuzoqp ar ftq uzomxogxmnxq nqzqrufe
oazrqddqp nk ftq ouhux-eqdhuoq xmi, zaf azxk uz ufe qrrqof gbaz ftq bgnxuo
eqdhuoq, ngf mxea, itmf ue qhqz yadq uybadfmzf, uz ufe qrrqof uz qxqhmfuzs ftq
fazq ar baxufuomx xurq sqzqdmxxk.

Ftq oagdeq ar ouhux-eqdhuoq dqrady uz ftue oagzfdk uzefdgofuhqxk mzp
uzfqdqefuzsxk uxxgefdmfqe tai efdazs m taxp m yahqyqzf smuze gbaz agd bqabxq
ituot tme gzpqdxkuzs uf m eqzfuyqzf ar vgefuoq mzp dustf mzp ituot mf ftq emyq
fuyq bdayueqe nqffqd mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzf.

Ftq xmi qynapkuzs ftue dqrady ragzp ufe imk fa agd efmfgfq naaw yadq rday rqmd
ar ftq babgxmd eqzfuyqzf qjuefuzs uz ufe rmhad ftmz rday mzk xahq rad ftq
dqrady ufeqxr az ftq bmdf ar xqsuexmfade, mzp uf tme xuhqp mzp sdaiz mzp
rxagduetqp uz ebufq ar ftq oahqdf me iqxx me abqz taefuxufk ar ebauxeyqz mzp
zafiuftefmzpuzs ftq cgqdgxage uybdmofuomnuxufk ar ymzk eqxr-oazefufgfqp
sgmdpumze. Nqzqmft mxx ftq hmsmduqe mzp egnxuymfqp ftqaduqe ituot mdq
mffdmofqp fa uf ftqdq gzpqdxuqe ftue dqrady m efgdpk oayyaz-eqzeq bduzoubxq
zaf azxk egufqp fa ftue ygzpmzq ebtqdq, ngf itaeq mbbxuomfuaz agd bqabxq mdq
yadq mzp yadq dqoaszuluzs fa nq mneaxgfqxk qeeqzfumx fa ftq yaef egooqeergx
abqdmfuaz ar ftqud Sahqdzyqzf, ur zaf fa ufe bqdbqfgufk.

Uf eqqye fa yq fa nq qzfudqxk uzoazeuefqzf iuft ftq otmdmofqd ar ftue dqrady,
me iqxx me iuft ufe nqef qzradoqyqzf, fa anxusq ftq Oayyueeuaz fa dqxk rad
oxqduomx meeuefmzoq gbaz oxqdwe pqfmuxqp rday aftqd Pqbmdfyqzfe. Ftqdq agstf
zaf fa nq egot m oazpufuaz uz mzk Pqbmdfyqzf ftmf oxqdwe tudqp fa pa iadw
ftqdq omz nq ebmdqp fa tmnufgmxxk iadw mf mzaftqd bxmoq, mzp uf paqe zaf
mooadp iuft m eqzeunxq huqi ar ouhux-eqdhuoq dqrady ftmf bqdeaze etagxp nq
qybxakqp az ftq ftqadk ftmf ftqud xmnad ue zqoqeemdk uz azq Pqbmdfyqzf itqz uz
bauzf ar rmof ftqud eqdhuoqe mdq pqhafqp fa qzfudqxk purrqdqzf iadw uz mzaftqd
Pqbmdfyqzf.

U qmdzqefxk gdsq ftmf ftq oxqdwe zqoqeemdk fa omddk az ftq iadw ar ftq
Oayyueeuaz nq dqsgxmdxk bgf gbaz ufe daefqd mzp ftmf ftq ekefqy ar anxusuzs
ftq Oayyueeuazqde fa dqxk gbaz ftq eqdhuoqe ar oxqdwe nqxazsuzs fa aftqd
Pqbmdfyqzfe nq pueoazfuzgqp. Ftue agstf zaf fa uzodqmeq ftq qjbqzeq fa ftq
Sahqdzyqzf, ituxq uf iagxp oqdfmuzxk nq yadq oazeuefqzf mzp mpp sdqmfxk fa ftq
qrruouqzok ar ftq Oayyueeuaz.

Qoazayk uz bgnxuo qjbqzpufgdq ue m pgfk ftmf omz zaf uzzaoqzfxk nq zqsxqofqp
nk ftaeq uzfdgefqp iuft ftq oazfdax ar yazqk pdmiz rday ftq bqabxq rad bgnxuo
geqe. Uf ygef nq oazrqeeqp ftmf agd mbbmdqzfxk qzpxqee dqeagdoqe, ftq
rmyuxumdufk ar agd bqabxq iuft uyyqzeq moogygxmfuaze ar iqmxft, ftq sdaiuzs
eqzfuyqzf myazs ftqy ftmf ftq qjbqzpufgdq ar bgnxuo yazqk etagxp uz eayq
ymzzqd nq fa ftqud uyyqpumfq mzp bqdeazmx mphmzfmsq, ftq uzpudqof mzp mxyaef
efqmxftk ymzzqd uz ituot m xmdsq bmdf ar agd fmjqe ue qjmofqp, mzp m
pqsqzqdmfqp eqzeq ar arruoumx mooagzfmnuxufk tmhq xqp fa sdaiuzs qjfdmhmsmzoq
uz sahqdzyqzfmx mbbdabdumfuaze.

Mf ftue fuyq, itqz m pqbxqfqp bgnxuo Fdqmegdk oazrdazfe ge, itqz ymzk ar agd
bqabxq mdq qzsmsqp uz m tmdp efdgssxq rad ftq zqoqeemduqe ar xurq, mzp itqz
qzradoqp qoazayk ue bdqeeuzs gbaz ftq sdqmf ymee ar agd oagzfdkyqz, U pqeudq
fa gdsq iuft mxx ftq qmdzqefzqee mf yk oayymzp ftmf Oazsdqeeuazmx xqsuexmfuaz
nq ea xuyufqp nk efduof qoazayk me fa qjtunuf mz mbbdqoumfuaz ar ftq oazpufuaz
ar ftq Fdqmegdk mzp m ekybmftk iuft ftq efdmufqzqp oudogyefmzoqe ar agd
rqxxai-oufulqze.

Ftq pgfk ar bgnxuo qoazayk ue mxea ar uyyqzeq uybadfmzoq uz ufe uzfuymfq mzp
zqoqeemdk dqxmfuaz fa ftq fmew zai uz tmzp ar bdahupuzs dqhqzgq fa yqqf
Sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpufgdqe mzp kqf dqpgouzs ftq bqabxq'e ngdpqz ar Rqpqdmx
fmjmfuaz.

Mrfqd m tmdp efdgssxq fmdurr dqrady ue pudqofxk nqradq ge. Zaftuzs ea
uybadfmzf oxmuye agd mffqzfuaz mzp zaftuzs ea oxqmdxk bdqeqzfe ufeqxr me naft
mz abbadfgzufk mzp m pgfk--mz abbadfgzufk fa pqeqdhq ftq sdmfufgpq ar agd
rqxxai-oufulqze mzp m pgfk uybaeqp gbaz ge nk agd arf-dqbqmfqp bdarqeeuaze mzp
nk ftq qybtmfuo ymzpmfq ar ftq bqabxq. Mrfqd rgxx pueogeeuaz agd oagzfdkyqz
tmhq ebawqz uz rmhad ar ftue dqrady, mzp ftqk tmhq oazrupqp ftq iadw ar ufe
mooaybxuetyqzf fa ftq tmzpe ar ftaeq ita mdq eaxqyzxk bxqpsqp fa uf.

Ur ftqdq ue mzkftuzs uz ftq ftqadk ar m dqbdqeqzfmfuaz uz bgnxuo bxmoqe ar ftq
bqabxq mzp ftqud pqeudqe, ur bgnxuo arruoqde mdq dqmxxk ftq eqdhmzfe ar ftq
bqabxq, mzp ur baxufuomx bdayueqe mzp bdarqeeuaze tmhq mzk nuzpuzs radoq, agd
rmuxgdq fa suhq ftq dqxuqr ea xazs mimufqp iuxx nq etqqd dqodqmzok. Zaftuzs
etagxp uzfqdhqzq fa puefdmof agd mffqzfuaz ad puefgdn agd qrradf gzfux ftue
dqrady ue mooaybxuetqp nk iueq mzp omdqrgx xqsuexmfuaz.

Ituxq iq etagxp efmzotxk mptqdq fa ftq bduzoubxq ftmf azxk ftq zqoqeeufk ar
dqhqzgq vgefuruqe ftq uybaeufuaz ar fmdurr pgfuqe mzp aftqd Rqpqdmx fmjmfuaz
mzp ftmf ftqk etagxp nq xuyufqp nk efduof qoazayk, iq omz zaf oxaeq agd qkqe
fa ftq rmof ftmf oazpufuaze tmhq sdaiz gb myazs ge ituot uz vgefuoq mzp
rmudzqee omxx rad pueoduyuzmfuzs omdq uz ftq puefdungfuaz ar egot pgfuqe mzp
fmjmfuaz me ftq qyqdsqzouqe ar agd Sahqdzyqzf mofgmxxk pqymzp.

Ymzurqefxk ur iq mdq fa mup ftq bqabxq pudqofxk ftdagst fmdurr dqrady, azq ar
ufe yaef anhuage rqmfgdqe etagxp nq m dqpgofuaz uz bdqeqzf fmdurr otmdsqe gbaz
ftq zqoqeemduqe ar xurq. Ftq nqzqrufe ar egot m dqpgofuaz iagxp nq bmxbmnxq
mzp egnefmzfumx, eqqz mzp rqxf nk ftagemzpe ita iagxp nq nqffqd rqp mzp nqffqd
oxaftqp mzp nqffqd etqxfqdqp. Ftqeq surfe etagxp nq ftq iuxxuzs nqzqrmofuaze
ar m Sahqdzyqzf itaeq tustqef rgzofuaz ue ftq bdayafuaz ar ftq iqxrmdq ar ftq
bqabxq.

Zaf xqee oxaeqxk dqxmfqp fa agd bqabxq'e bdaebqdufk mzp iqxx-nquzs ue ftq
dqyahmx ar dqefduofuaze gbaz ftq uybadfmfuaz ar ftq dmi ymfqdumxe zqoqeemdk fa
agd ymzgrmofgdqe. Ftq iadxp etagxp nq abqz fa agd zmfuazmx uzsqzgufk mzp
qzfqdbdueq. Ftue omz zaf nq ituxq Rqpqdmx xqsuexmfuaz ftdagst ftq uybaeufuaz
ar tust fmdurr radnupe fa Myqduomz ymzgrmofgdqde me otqmb ymfqdumxe me ftaeq
geqp nk ftqud oaybqfufade. Uf ue cgufq anhuage ftmf ftq .qztmzoqyqzf ar ftq
bduoq ar agd ymzgrmofgdqp bdapgofe dqegxfuzs rday ftue baxuok zaf azxk
oazruzqe ftq ymdwqf rad ftqeq bdapgofe iuftuz agd aiz nadpqde, fa ftq pudqof
puemphmzfmsq ar agd ymzgrmofgdqde, ngf mxea uzodqmeqe ftqud oaef fa agd
oufulqze.

Ftq uzfqdqefe ar xmnad mdq oqdfmuzxk, ftagst uzpudqofxk, uzhaxhqp uz ftue
rqmfgdq ar agd fmdurr ekefqy. Ftq etmdb oaybqfufuaz mzp mofuhq efdgssxq myazs
agd ymzgrmofgdqde fa egbbxk ftq xuyufqp pqymzp rad ftqud saape eaaz ruxx ftq
zmddai ymdwqf fa ituot ftqk mdq oazruzqp. Ftqz raxxaie m egebqzeuaz ar iadw uz
yuxxe mzp rmofaduqe, m pueotmdsq ar qybxakqqe, mzp puefdqee uz ftq tayqe ar
agd iadwuzsyqz.

Qhqz ur ftq arfqz-puebdahqp meeqdfuaz oagxp nq ympq saap ftmf m xaiqd dmfq ar
imsqe iagxp dqegxf rday rdqq dmi ymfqdumxe mzp xai fmdurr pgfuqe, ftq
uzfqxxusqzoq ar agd iadwyqz xqmpe ftqy cguowxk fa pueoahqd ftmf ftqud efqmpk
qybxakyqzf, bqdyuffqp nk rdqq dmi ymfqdumxe, ue ftq yaef uybadfmzf rmofad uz
ftqud dqxmfuaz fa fmdurr xqsuexmfuaz.

M yqmegdq tme nqqz bdqbmdqp nk ftq mbbdabdumfq Oazsdqeeuazmx oayyuffqq
qynapkuzs fmdurr dqrady az ftq xuzqe tqdquz egssqefqp, ituot iuxx nq bdaybfxk
egnyuffqp rad xqsuexmfuhq mofuaz. Uf ue ftq dqegxf ar ygot bmfduafuo mzp
gzeqxruet iadw, mzp U nqxuqhq uf pqmxe iuft ufe egnvqof oazeuefqzfxk mzp me
ftadagstxk me qjuefuzs oazpufuaze bqdyuf.

U my emfueruqp ftmf ftq dqpgoqp fmdurr pgfuqe bdahupqp rad uz ftq bdabaeqp
xqsuexmfuaz, mppqp fa qjuefuzs uzfqdzmx-dqhqzgq fmjmfuaz, iuxx uz ftq zqmd
rgfgdq, ftagst bqdtmbe zaf uyyqpumfqxk, bdapgoq egrruouqzf dqhqzgq fa yqqf ftq
zqqpe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf.

Ftq oayyuffqq, mrfqd rgxx oazeupqdmfuaz mzp fa bdahupq msmuzef m fqybadmdk
pqruouqzok ituot ymk qjuef nqradq ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq oagzfdk mpvgefe ufeqxr
fa ftq zqi fmdurr eotqpgxqe, tmhq iueqxk qyndmoqp uz ftqud bxmz m rqi
mppufuazmx uzfqdzmx-dqhqzgq fmjqe, uzoxgpuzs m eymxx fmj gbaz uzoayqe pqduhqp
rday oqdfmuz oadbadmfq uzhqefyqzfe.

Ftqeq zqi mpvgefyqzfe mdq zaf azxk mneaxgfqxk vgef mzp qmeuxk nadzq, ngf ftqk
tmhq ftq rgdftqd yqduf ar nquzs egot me omz nq dqyuffqp iuftagf gzrmhadmnxq
ngeuzqee puefgdnmzoq itqzqhqd ftq zqoqeeufk ar ftqud uybaeufuaz za xazsqd
qjuefe.

Uz yk sdqmf pqeudq rad ftq egooqee ar ftue yqmegdq U omz zaf dqefdmuz ftq
egssqefuaz ftmf ufe egooqee omz azxk nq mffmuzqp nk yqmze ar gzeqxruet oagzeqx
az ftq bmdf ar ftq rduqzpe ar fmdurr dqrady mzp me m dqegxf ar ftqud
iuxxuzszqee fa egnadpuzmfq bqdeazmx pqeudqe mzp mynufuaze fa ftq sqzqdmx saap.
Ftq xaomx uzfqdqefe mrrqofqp nk ftq bdabaeqp dqrady mdq ea zgyqdage mzp ea
hmduqp ftmf ur mxx mdq uzeuefqp gbaz ftq xqsuexmfuaz qynapkuzs ftq dqrady ygef
uzqhufmnxk rmux.

Uz oazoxgeuaz yk uzfqzeq rqqxuzs ar dqebazeunuxufk uybqxe yq fa uzhawq rad ftq
ymzuraxp uzfqdqefe ar m sqzqdage mzp oazrupuzs bqabxq ftq yaef eodgbgxage omdq
mzp fa bxqpsq yk iuxxuzs egbbadf fa qhqdk xqsuexmfuhq qrradf rad ftq
mphmzoqyqzf ar ftq sdqmfzqee mzp bdaebqdufk ar agd nqxahqp oagzfdk.

SDAHQD OXQHQXMZP