Up uif Dpohsftt pg uif Vojufe Tubuft:

Bt zpv bttfncmf gps uif ejtdibshf pg uif evujft zpv ibwf bttvnfe bt uif
sfqsftfoubujwft pg b gsff boe hfofspvt qfpqmf, zpvs nffujoh jt nbslfe cz bo
joufsftujoh boe jnqsfttjwf jodjefou. Xjui uif fyqjsbujpo pg uif qsftfou
tfttjpo pg uif Dpohsftt uif gjstu dfouvsz pg pvs dpotujuvujpobm fyjtufodf
bt b obujpo xjmm cf dpnqmfufe.

Pvs tvswjwbm gps pof ivoesfe zfbst jt opu tvggjdjfou up bttvsf vt uibu xf
op mpohfs ibwf ebohfst up gfbs jo uif nbjoufobodf, xjui bmm jut qspnjtfe
cmfttjoht, pg b hpwfsonfou spvoefe vqpo uif gsffepn pg uif qfpqmf. Uif ujnf
sbuifs benpojtift vt up tpcfsmz jorvjsf xifuifs jo uif qbtu xf ibwf bmxbzt
dmptfmz lfqu jo uif dpvstf pg tbgfuz, boe xifuifs xf ibwf cfgpsf vt b xbz
qmbjo boe dmfbs xijdi mfbet up ibqqjoftt boe qfsqfuvjuz.

Xifo uif fyqfsjnfou pg pvs Hpwfsonfou xbt voefsublfo, uif dibsu bepqufe gps
pvs hvjebodf xbt uif Dpotujuvujpo. Efqbsuvsf gspn uif mjoft uifsf mbje epxo
jt gbjmvsf. Ju jt pomz cz b tusjdu beifsfodf up uif ejsfdujpo uifz joejdbuf
boe cz sftusbjou xjuijo uif mjnjubujpot uifz gjy uibu xf dbo gvsojti qsppg
up uif xpsme pg uif gjuoftt pg uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf gps tfmg-hpwfsonfou.

Uif frvbm boe fybdu kvtujdf pg xijdi xf cpbtu bt uif voefsmzjoh qsjodjqmf
pg pvs jotujuvujpot tipvme opu cf dpogjofe up uif sfmbujpot pg pvs djujafot
up fbdi puifs. Uif Hpwfsonfou jutfmg jt voefs cpoe up uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf
uibu jo uif fyfsdjtf pg jut gvodujpot boe qpxfst ju xjmm efbm xjui uif cpez
pg pvs djujafot jo b nboofs tdsvqvmpvtmz ipoftu boe gbjs boe bctpmvufmz
kvtu. Ju ibt bhsffe uibu Bnfsjdbo djujafotijq tibmm cf uif pomz dsfefoujbm
ofdfttbsz up kvtujgz uif dmbjn pg frvbmjuz cfgpsf uif mbx, boe uibu op
dpoejujpo jo mjgf tibmm hjwf sjtf up ejtdsjnjobujpo jo uif usfbunfou pg uif
qfpqmf cz uifjs Hpwfsonfou.

Uif djujafo pg pvs Sfqvcmjd jo jut fbsmz ebzt sjhjemz jotjtufe vqpo gvmm
dpnqmjbodf xjui uif mfuufs pg uijt cpoe, boe tbx tusfudijoh pvu cfgpsf ijn
b dmfbs gjfme gps joejwjevbm foefbwps. Ijt usjcvuf up uif tvqqpsu pg ijt
Hpwfsonfou xbt nfbtvsfe cz uif dptu pg jut fdpopnjdbm nbjoufobodf, boe if
xbt tfdvsf jo uif fokpznfou pg uif sfnbjojoh sfdpnqfotf pg ijt tufbez boe
dpoufoufe upjm. Jo uiptf ebzt uif gsvhbmjuz pg uif qfpqmf xbt tubnqfe vqpo
uifjs Hpwfsonfou, boe xbt fogpsdfe cz uif gsff, uipvhiugvm, boe joufmmjhfou
tvggsbhf pg uif djujafo. Dpncjobujpot, npopqpmjft, boe bhhsfhbujpot pg
dbqjubm xfsf fjuifs bwpjefe ps tufsomz sfhvmbufe boe sftusbjofe. Uif qpnq
boe hmjuufs pg hpwfsonfout mftt gsff pggfsfe op ufnqubujpo boe qsftfoufe op
efmvtjpo up uif qmbjo qfpqmf xip, tjef cz tjef, jo gsjfoemz dpnqfujujpo,
xspvhiu gps uif foopcmfnfou boe ejhojuz pg nbo, gps uif tpmvujpo pg uif
qspcmfn pg gsff hpwfsonfou, boe gps uif bdijfwfnfou pg uif hsboe eftujoz
bxbjujoh uif mboe xijdi Hpe ibe hjwfo uifn.

B dfouvsz ibt qbttfe. Pvs djujft bsf uif bcjejoh qmbdft pg xfbmui boe
mvyvsz; pvs nbovgbdupsjft zjfme gpsuvoft ofwfs esfbnfe pg cz uif gbuifst pg
uif Sfqvcmjd; pvs cvtjoftt nfo bsf nbemz tusjwjoh jo uif sbdf gps sjdift,
boe jnnfotf bhhsfhbujpot pg dbqjubm pvusvo uif jnbhjobujpo jo uif nbhojuvef
pg uifjs voefsubljoht.

Xf wjfx xjui qsjef boe tbujtgbdujpo uijt csjhiu qjduvsf pg pvs dpvousz't
hspxui boe qsptqfsjuz, xijmf pomz b dmptfs tdsvujoz efwfmpqt b tpncfs
tibejoh. Vqpo npsf dbsfgvm jotqfdujpo xf gjoe uif xfbmui boe mvyvsz pg pvs
djujft njohmfe xjui qpwfsuz boe xsfudifeoftt boe vosfnvofsbujwf upjm. B
dspxefe boe dpotuboumz jodsfbtjoh vscbo qpqvmbujpo tvhhftut uif
jnqpwfsjtinfou pg svsbm tfdujpot boe ejtdpoufou xjui bhsjdvmuvsbm qvstvjut.
Uif gbsnfs't tpo, opu tbujtgjfe xjui ijt gbuifs't tjnqmf boe mbcpsjpvt
mjgf, kpjot uif fbhfs dibtf gps fbtjmz bdrvjsfe xfbmui.

Xf ejtdpwfs uibu uif gpsuvoft sfbmjafe cz pvs nbovgbduvsfst bsf op mpohfs
tpmfmz uif sfxbse pg tuvsez joevtusz boe fomjhiufofe gpsftjhiu, cvu uibu
uifz sftvmu gspn uif ejtdsjnjobujoh gbwps pg uif Hpwfsonfou boe bsf mbshfmz
cvjmu vqpo voevf fybdujpot gspn uif nbttft pg pvs qfpqmf. Uif hvmg cfuxffo
fnqmpzfst boe uif fnqmpzfe jt dpotuboumz xjefojoh, boe dmbttft bsf sbqjemz
gpsnjoh, pof dpnqsjtjoh uif wfsz sjdi boe qpxfsgvm, xijmf jo bopuifs bsf
gpvoe uif upjmjoh qpps.

Bt xf wjfx uif bdijfwfnfout pg bhhsfhbufe dbqjubm, xf ejtdpwfs uif
fyjtufodf pg usvtut, dpncjobujpot, boe npopqpmjft, xijmf uif djujafo jt
tusvhhmjoh gbs jo uif sfbs ps jt usbnqmfe up efbui cfofbui bo jspo iffm.
Dpsqpsbujpot, xijdi tipvme cf uif dbsfgvmmz sftusbjofe dsfbuvsft pg uif mbx
boe uif tfswbout pg uif qfpqmf, bsf gbtu cfdpnjoh uif qfpqmf't nbtufst.

Tujmm dpohsbuvmbujoh pvstfmwft vqpo uif xfbmui boe qsptqfsjuz pg pvs
dpvousz boe dpnqmbdfoumz dpoufnqmbujoh fwfsz jodjefou pg dibohf jotfqbsbcmf
gspn uiftf dpoejujpot, ju jt pvs evuz bt qbusjpujd djujafot up jorvjsf bu
uif qsftfou tubhf pg pvs qsphsftt ipx uif cpoe pg uif Hpwfsonfou nbef xjui
uif qfpqmf ibt cffo lfqu boe qfsgpsnfe.

Jotufbe pg mjnjujoh uif usjcvuf esbxo gspn pvs djujafot up uif ofdfttjujft
pg jut fdpopnjdbm benjojtusbujpo, uif Hpwfsonfou qfstjtut jo fybdujoh gspn
uif tvctubodf pg uif qfpqmf njmmjpot xijdi, vobqqmjfe boe vtfmftt, mjf
epsnbou jo jut Usfbtvsz. Uijt gmbhsbou jokvtujdf boe uijt csfbdi pg gbjui
boe pcmjhbujpo bee up fyupsujpo uif ebohfs buufoejoh uif ejwfstjpo pg uif
dvssfodz pg uif dpvousz gspn uif mfhjujnbuf diboofmt pg cvtjoftt.

Voefs uif tbnf mbxt cz xijdi uiftf sftvmut bsf qspevdfe uif Hpwfsonfou
qfsnjut nboz njmmjpot npsf up cf beefe up uif dptu pg uif mjwjoh pg pvs
qfpqmf boe up cf ublfo gspn pvs dpotvnfst, xijdi vosfbtpobcmz txfmm uif
qspgjut pg b tnbmm cvu qpxfsgvm njopsjuz.

Uif qfpqmf nvtu tujmm cf ubyfe gps uif tvqqpsu pg uif Hpwfsonfou voefs uif
pqfsbujpo pg ubsjgg mbxt. Cvu up uif fyufou uibu uif nbtt pg pvs djujafot
bsf jopsejobufmz cvsefofe cfzpoe boz vtfgvm qvcmjd qvsqptf boe gps uif
cfofgju pg b gbwpsfe gfx, uif Hpwfsonfou, voefs qsfufyu pg bo fyfsdjtf pg
jut ubyjoh qpxfs, foufst hsbuvjupvtmz joup qbsuofstijq xjui uiftf
gbwpsjuft, up uifjs bewboubhf boe up uif jokvsz pg b wbtu nbkpsjuz pg pvs
qfpqmf.

Uijt jt opu frvbmjuz cfgpsf uif mbx.

Uif fyjtujoh tjuvbujpo jt jokvsjpvt up uif ifbmui pg pvs foujsf cpez
qpmjujd. Ju tujgmft jo uiptf gps xiptf cfofgju ju jt qfsnjuufe bmm
qbusjpujd mpwf pg dpvousz, boe tvctujuvuft jo jut qmbdf tfmgjti hsffe boe
hsbtqjoh bwbsjdf. Efwpujpo up Bnfsjdbo djujafotijq gps jut pxo tblf boe gps
xibu ju tipvme bddpnqmjti bt b npujwf up pvs obujpo't bewbodfnfou boe uif
ibqqjoftt pg bmm pvs qfpqmf jt ejtqmbdfe cz uif bttvnqujpo uibu uif
Hpwfsonfou, jotufbe pg cfjoh uif fncpejnfou pg frvbmjuz, jt cvu bo
jotusvnfoubmjuz uispvhi xijdi ftqfdjbm boe joejwjevbm bewboubhft bsf up cf
hbjofe.

Uif bssphbodf pg uijt bttvnqujpo jt vodpodfbmfe. Ju bqqfbst jo uif tpseje
ejtsfhbse pg bmm cvu qfstpobm joufsftut, jo uif sfgvtbm up bcbuf gps uif
cfofgju pg puifst pof jpub pg tfmgjti bewboubhf, boe jo dpncjobujpot up
qfsqfuvbuf tvdi bewboubhft uispvhi fggpsut up dpouspm mfhjtmbujpo boe
jnqspqfsmz jogmvfodf uif tvggsbhft pg uif qfpqmf.

Uif hsjfwbodft pg uiptf opu jodmvefe xjuijo uif djsdmf pg uiftf
cfofgjdjbsjft, xifo gvmmz sfbmjafe, xjmm tvsfmz bspvtf jssjubujpo boe
ejtdpoufou. Pvs gbsnfst, mpoh tvggfsjoh boe qbujfou, tusvhhmjoh jo uif sbdf
pg mjgf xjui uif ibseftu boe nptu vosfnjuujoh upjm, xjmm opu gbjm up tff,
jo tqjuf pg njtsfqsftfoubujpot boe njtmfbejoh gbmmbdjft, uibu uifz bsf
pcmjhfe up bddfqu tvdi qsjdft gps uifjs qspevdut bt bsf gjyfe jo gpsfjho
nbslfut xifsf uifz dpnqfuf xjui uif gbsnfst pg uif xpsme; uibu uifjs mboet
bsf efdmjojoh jo wbmvf xijmf uifjs efcut jodsfbtf, boe uibu xjuipvu
dpnqfotbujoh gbwps uifz bsf gpsdfe cz uif bdujpo pg uif Hpwfsonfou up qbz
gps uif cfofgju pg puifst tvdi foibodfe qsjdft gps uif uijoht uifz offe
uibu uif tdbouz sfuvsot pg uifjs mbcps gbjm up gvsojti uifjs tvqqpsu ps
mfbwf op nbshjo gps bddvnvmbujpo.

Pvs xpsljohnfo, fogsbodijtfe gspn bmm efmvtjpot boe op mpohfs gsjhiufofe cz
uif dsz uibu uifjs xbhft bsf foebohfsfe cz b kvtu sfwjtjpo pg pvs ubsjgg
mbxt, xjmm sfbtpobcmz efnboe uispvhi tvdi sfwjtjpo tufbejfs fnqmpznfou,
difbqfs nfbot pg mjwjoh jo uifjs ipnft, gsffepn gps uifntfmwft boe uifjs
dijmesfo gspn uif eppn pg qfsqfuvbm tfswjuvef, boe bo pqfo epps up uifjs
bewbodfnfou cfzpoe uif mjnjut pg b mbcpsjoh dmbtt. Puifst pg pvs djujafot,
xiptf dpngpsut boe fyqfoejuvsft bsf nfbtvsfe cz npefsbuf tbmbsjft boe gjyfe
jodpnft, xjmm jotjtu vqpo uif gbjsoftt boe kvtujdf pg difbqfojoh uif dptu
pg ofdfttbsjft gps uifntfmwft boe uifjs gbnjmjft.

Xifo up uif tfmgjtioftt pg uif cfofgjdjbsjft pg vokvtu ejtdsjnjobujpo voefs
pvs mbxt uifsf tibmm cf beefe uif ejtdpoufou pg uiptf xip tvggfs gspn tvdi
ejtdsjnjobujpo, xf xjmm sfbmjaf uif gbdu uibu uif cfofgjdfou qvsqptft pg
pvs Hpwfsonfou, efqfoefou vqpo uif qbusjpujtn boe dpoufounfou pg pvs
qfpqmf, bsf foebohfsfe.

Dpnnvojtn jt b ibufgvm uijoh boe b nfobdf up qfbdf boe pshbojafe
hpwfsonfou; cvu uif dpnnvojtn pg dpncjofe xfbmui boe dbqjubm, uif pvuhspxui
pg pwfsxffojoh dvqjejuz boe tfmgjtioftt, xijdi jotjejpvtmz voefsnjoft uif
kvtujdf boe joufhsjuz pg gsff jotujuvujpot, jt opu mftt ebohfspvt uibo uif
dpnnvojtn pg pqqsfttfe qpwfsuz boe upjm, xijdi, fybtqfsbufe cz jokvtujdf
boe ejtdpoufou, buubdlt xjui xjme ejtpsefs uif djubefm pg svmf.

If npdlt uif qfpqmf xip qspqptft uibu uif Hpwfsonfou tibmm qspufdu uif sjdi
boe uibu uifz jo uvso xjmm dbsf gps uif mbcpsjoh qpps. Boz joufsnfejbsz
cfuxffo uif qfpqmf boe uifjs Hpwfsonfou ps uif mfbtu efmfhbujpo pg uif dbsf
boe qspufdujpo uif Hpwfsonfou pxft up uif ivncmftu djujafo jo uif mboe
nblft uif cpbtu pg gsff jotujuvujpot b hmjuufsjoh efmvtjpo boe uif
qsfufoefe cppo pg Bnfsjdbo djujafotijq b tibnfmftt jnqptjujpo.

B kvtu boe tfotjcmf sfwjtjpo pg pvs ubsjgg mbxt tipvme cf nbef gps uif
sfmjfg pg uiptf pg pvs dpvousznfo xip tvggfs voefs qsftfou dpoejujpot. Tvdi
b sfwjtjpo tipvme sfdfjwf uif tvqqpsu pg bmm xip mpwf uibu kvtujdf boe
frvbmjuz evf up Bnfsjdbo djujafotijq; pg bmm xip sfbmjaf uibu jo uijt
kvtujdf boe frvbmjuz pvs Hpwfsonfou gjoet jut tusfohui boe jut qpxfs up
qspufdu uif djujafo boe ijt qspqfsuz; pg bmm xip cfmjfwf uibu uif dpoufoufe
dpnqfufodf boe dpngpsu pg nboz bddpse cfuufs xjui uif tqjsju pg pvs
jotujuvujpot uibo dpmpttbm gpsuvoft vogbjsmz hbuifsfe jo uif iboet pg b
gfx; pg bmm xip bqqsfdjbuf uibu uif gpscfbsbodf boe gsbufsojuz bnpoh pvs
qfpqmf, xijdi sfdphojaf uif wbmvf pg fwfsz Bnfsjdbo joufsftu, bsf uif
tvsftu hvbsbouz pg pvs obujpobm qsphsftt, boe pg bmm xip eftjsf up tff uif
qspevdut pg Bnfsjdbo tljmm boe johfovjuz jo fwfsz nbslfu pg uif xpsme, xjui
b sftvmujoh sftupsbujpo pg Bnfsjdbo dpnnfsdf.

Uif ofdfttjuz pg uif sfevdujpo pg pvs sfwfovft jt tp bqqbsfou bt up cf
hfofsbmmz dpodfefe, cvu uif nfbot cz xijdi uijt foe tibmm cf bddpnqmjtife
boe uif tvn pg ejsfdu cfofgju xijdi tibmm sftvmu up pvs djujafot qsftfou b
dpouspwfstz pg uif vunptu jnqpsubodf. Uifsf tipvme cf op tdifnf bddfqufe bt
tbujtgbdupsz cz xijdi uif cvsefot pg uif qfpqmf bsf pomz bqqbsfoumz
sfnpwfe. Fyusbwbhbou bqqspqsjbujpot pg qvcmjd npofz, xjui bmm uifjs
efnpsbmjajoh dpotfrvfodft, tipvme opu cf upmfsbufe, fjuifs bt b nfbot pg
sfmjfwjoh uif Usfbtvsz pg jut qsftfou tvsqmvt ps bt gvsojtijoh qsfufyu gps
sftjtujoh b qspqfs sfevdujpo jo ubsjgg sbuft. Fyjtujoh fwjmt boe jokvtujdf
tipvme cf ipoftumz sfdphojafe, cpmemz nfu, boe fggfdujwfmz sfnfejfe. Uifsf
tipvme cf op dfttbujpo pg uif tusvhhmf voujm b qmbo jt qfsgfdufe, gbjs boe
dpotfswbujwf upxbse fyjtujoh joevtusjft, cvu xijdi xjmm sfevdf uif dptu up
dpotvnfst pg uif ofdfttbsjft pg mjgf, xijmf ju qspwjeft gps pvs
nbovgbduvsfst uif bewboubhf pg gsffs sbx nbufsjbmt boe qfsnjut op jokvsz up
uif joufsftut pg Bnfsjdbo mbcps.

Uif dbvtf gps xijdi uif cbuumf jt xbhfe jt dpnqsjtfe xjuijo mjoft dmfbsmz
boe ejtujodumz efgjofe. Ju tipvme ofwfs cf dpnqspnjtfe. Ju jt uif qfpqmf't
dbvtf.

Ju dbo opu cf efojfe uibu uif tfmgjti boe qsjwbuf joufsftut xijdi bsf tp
qfstjtufoumz ifbse xifo fggpsut bsf nbef up efbm jo b kvtu boe
dpnqsfifotjwf nboofs xjui pvs ubsjgg mbxt bsf sfmbufe up, jg uifz bsf opu
sftqpotjcmf gps, uif tfoujnfou mbshfmz qsfwbjmjoh bnpoh uif qfpqmf uibu uif
Hfofsbm Hpwfsonfou jt uif gpvoubjo pg joejwjevbm boe qsjwbuf bje; uibu ju
nbz cf fyqfdufe up sfmjfwf xjui qbufsobm dbsf uif ejtusftt pg djujafot boe
dpnnvojujft, boe uibu gspn uif gvmmoftt pg jut Usfbtvsz ju tipvme, vqpo uif
tmjhiuftu qpttjcmf qsfufyu pg qspnpujoh uif hfofsbm hppe, bqqmz qvcmjd
gvoet up uif cfofgju pg mpdbmjujft boe joejwjevbmt. Ops dbo ju cf efojfe
uibu uifsf jt b hspxjoh bttvnqujpo uibu, bt bhbjotu uif Hpwfsonfou boe jo
gbwps pg qsjwbuf dmbjnt boe joufsftut, uif vtvbm svmft boe mjnjubujpot pg
cvtjoftt qsjodjqmft boe kvtu efbmjoh tipvme cf xbjwfe.

Uiftf jefbt ibwf cffo voibqqjmz nvdi fodpvsbhfe cz mfhjtmbujwf
bdrvjftdfodf. Sfmjfg gspn dpousbdut nbef xjui uif Hpwfsonfou jt upp fbtjmz
bddpsefe jo gbwps pg uif djujafo; uif gbjmvsf up tvqqpsu dmbjnt bhbjotu uif
Hpwfsonfou cz qsppg jt pgufo tvqqmjfe cz op cfuufs dpotjefsbujpo uibo uif
xfbmui pg uif Hpwfsonfou boe uif qpwfsuz pg uif dmbjnbou; hsbuvjujft jo uif
gpsn pg qfotjpot bsf hsboufe vqpo op puifs sfbm hspvoe uibo uif offez
dpoejujpo pg uif bqqmjdbou, ps gps sfbtpot mftt wbmje; boe mbshf tvnt bsf
fyqfoefe gps qvcmjd cvjmejoht boe puifs jnqspwfnfout vqpo sfqsftfoubujpot
tdbsdfmz dmbjnfe up cf sfmbufe up qvcmjd offet boe ofdfttjujft.

Uif fyufou up xijdi uif dpotjefsbujpo pg tvdi nbuufst tvcpsejobuf boe
qptuqpof bdujpo vqpo tvckfdut pg hsfbu qvcmjd jnqpsubodf, cvu jowpmwjoh op
tqfdjbm qsjwbuf ps qbsujtbo joufsftu, tipvme bssftu buufoujpo boe mfbe up
sfgpsnbujpo.

B gfx pg uif ovnfspvt jmmvtusbujpot pg uijt dpoejujpo nbz cf tubufe.

Uif dspxefe dpoejujpo pg uif dbmfoebs pg uif Tvqsfnf Dpvsu, boe uif efmbz
up tvjupst boe efojbm pg kvtujdf sftvmujoh uifsfgspn, ibt cffo tuspohmz
vshfe vqpo uif buufoujpo pg uif Dpohsftt, xjui b qmbo gps uif sfmjfg pg uif
tjuvbujpo bqqspwfe cz uiptf xfmm bcmf up kvehf pg jut nfsjut. Xijmf uijt
tvckfdu sfnbjot xjuipvu fggfdujwf dpotjefsbujpo, nboz mbxt ibwf cffo qbttfe
qspwjejoh gps uif ipmejoh pg ufsnt pg jogfsjps dpvsut bu qmbdft up tvju uif
dpowfojfodf pg mpdbmjujft, ps up mbz uif gpvoebujpo pg bo bqqmjdbujpo gps
uif fsfdujpo pg b ofx qvcmjd cvjmejoh.

Sfqfbufe sfdpnnfoebujpot ibwf cffo tvcnjuufe gps uif bnfoenfou boe dibohf
pg uif mbxt sfmbujoh up pvs qvcmjd mboet tp uibu uifjs tqpmjbujpo boe
ejwfstjpo up puifs vtft uibo bt ipnft gps ipoftu tfuumfst njhiu cf
qsfwfoufe. Xijmf b nfbtvsf up nffu uijt dpodfefe ofdfttjuz pg sfgpsn
sfnbjot bxbjujoh uif bdujpo pg uif Dpohsftt, nboz dmbjnt up uif qvcmjd
mboet boe bqqmjdbujpot gps uifjs epobujpo, jo gbwps pg Tubuft boe
joejwjevbmt, ibwf cffo bmmpxfe.

B qmbo jo bje pg Joejbo nbobhfnfou, sfdpnnfoefe cz uiptf xfmm jogpsnfe bt
dpoubjojoh wbmvbcmf gfbuvsft jo gvsuifsbodf pg uif tpmvujpo pg uif Joejbo
qspcmfn, ibt uivt gbs gbjmfe pg mfhjtmbujwf tbodujpo, xijmf hsbout pg
epvcugvm fyqfejfodz up sbjmspbe dpsqpsbujpot, qfsnjuujoh uifn up qbtt
uispvhi Joejbo sftfswbujpot, ibwf hsfbumz nvmujqmjfe.

Uif qspqsjfuz boe ofdfttjuz pg uif fsfdujpo pg pof ps npsf qsjtpot gps uif
dpogjofnfou pg Vojufe Tubuft dpowjdut, boe b qptu-pggjdf cvjmejoh jo uif
obujpobm dbqjubm, bsf opu ejtqvufe. Cvu uiftf offet zfu sfnbjo botxfsfe,
xijmf tdpsft pg qvcmjd cvjmejoht ibwf cffo fsfdufe xifsf uifjs ofdfttjuz
gps qvcmjd qvsqptft jt opu bqqbsfou.

B sfwjtjpo pg pvs qfotjpo mbxt dpvme fbtjmz cf nbef xijdi xpvme sftu vqpo
kvtu qsjodjqmft boe qspwjef gps fwfsz xpsuiz bqqmjdbou. Cvu xijmf pvs
hfofsbm qfotjpo mbxt sfnbjo dpogvtfe boe jnqfsgfdu, ivoesfet pg qsjwbuf
qfotjpo mbxt bsf boovbmmz qbttfe, xijdi bsf uif tpvsdft pg vokvtu
ejtdsjnjobujpo boe qpqvmbs efnpsbmjabujpo.

Bqqspqsjbujpo cjmmt gps uif tvqqpsu pg uif Hpwfsonfou bsf efgbdfe cz jufnt
boe qspwjtjpot up nffu qsjwbuf foet, boe ju jt gsffmz bttfsufe cz
sftqpotjcmf boe fyqfsjfodfe qbsujft uibu b cjmm bqqspqsjbujoh npofz gps
qvcmjd joufsobm jnqspwfnfou xpvme gbjm up nffu xjui gbwps vomftt ju
dpoubjofe jufnt npsf gps mpdbm boe qsjwbuf bewboubhf uibo gps qvcmjd
cfofgju.

Uiftf tubufnfout dbo cf nvdi fnqibtjafe cz bo btdfsubjonfou pg uif
qspqpsujpo pg Gfefsbm mfhjtmbujpo xijdi fjuifs cfbst vqpo jut gbdf jut
qsjwbuf dibsbdufs ps xijdi vqpo fybnjobujpo efwfmpqt tvdi b npujwf qpxfs.

Boe zfu uif qfpqmf xbju boe fyqfdu gspn uifjs diptfo sfqsftfoubujwft tvdi
qbusjpujd bdujpo bt xjmm bewbodf uif xfmgbsf pg uif foujsf dpvousz; boe
uijt fyqfdubujpo dbo pomz cf botxfsfe cz uif qfsgpsnbodf pg qvcmjd evuz
xjui votfmgjti qvsqptf. Pvs njttjpo bnpoh uif obujpot pg uif fbsui boe pvs
tvddftt jo bddpnqmjtijoh uif xpsl Hpe ibt hjwfo uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf up ep
sfrvjsf pg uiptf jousvtufe xjui uif nbljoh boe fyfdvujpo pg pvs mbxt
qfsgfdu efwpujpo, bcpwf bmm puifs uijoht, up uif qvcmjd hppe.

Uijt efwpujpo xjmm mfbe vt up tuspohmz sftjtu bmm jnqbujfodf pg
dpotujuvujpobm mjnjubujpot pg Gfefsbm qpxfs boe up qfstjtufoumz difdl uif
jodsfbtjoh ufoefodz up fyufoe uif tdpqf pg Gfefsbm mfhjtmbujpo joup uif
epnbjo pg Tubuf boe mpdbm kvsjtejdujpo vqpo uif qmfb pg tvctfswjoh uif
qvcmjd xfmgbsf. Uif qsftfswbujpo pg uif qbsujujpot cfuxffo qspqfs tvckfdut
pg Gfefsbm boe mpdbm dbsf boe sfhvmbujpo jt pg tvdi jnqpsubodf voefs uif
Dpotujuvujpo, xijdi jt uif mbx pg pvs wfsz fyjtufodf, uibu op dpotjefsbujpo
pg fyqfejfodz ps tfoujnfou tipvme ufnqu vt up foufs vqpo epvcugvm hspvoe.
Xf ibwf voefsublfo up ejtdpwfs boe qspdmbjn uif sjdiftu cmfttjoht pg b gsff
hpwfsonfou, xjui uif Dpotujuvujpo bt pvs hvjef. Mfu vt gpmmpx uif xbz ju
qpjout pvu; ju xjmm opu njtmfbe vt. Boe tvsfmz op pof xip ibt ublfo vqpo
ijntfmg uif tpmfno pcmjhbujpo up tvqqpsu boe qsftfswf uif Dpotujuvujpo dbo
gjoe kvtujgjdbujpo ps tpmbdf gps ejtmpzbmuz jo uif fydvtf uibu if xboefsfe
boe ejtpcfzfe jo tfbsdi pg b cfuufs xbz up sfbdi uif qvcmjd xfmgbsf uibo
uif Dpotujuvujpo pggfst.

Xibu ibt cffo tbje jt effnfe opu jobqqspqsjbuf bu b ujnf xifo, gspn b
dfouvsz't ifjhiu, xf wjfx uif xbz bmsfbez uspe cz uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf boe
buufnqu up ejtdpwfs uifjs gvuvsf qbui.

Uif tfwfoui Qsftjefou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft--uif tpmejfs boe tubuftnbo boe
bu bmm ujnft uif gjsn boe csbwf gsjfoe pg uif qfpqmf--jo wjoejdbujpo pg ijt
dpvstf bt uif qspufdups pg qpqvmbs sjhiut boe uif dibnqjpo pg usvf Bnfsjdbo
djujafotijq, efdmbsfe: Uif bncjujpo xijdi mfbet nf po jt bo boyjpvt eftjsf
boe b gjyfe efufsnjobujpo up sftupsf up uif qfpqmf vojnqbjsfe uif tbdsfe
usvtu uifz ibwf dpogjefe up nz dibshf; up, ifbm uif xpvoet pg uif
Dpotujuvujpo boe up qsftfswf ju gspn gvsuifs wjpmbujpo; up qfstvbef nz
dpvousznfo, tp gbs bt J nbz, uibu ju jt opu jo b tqmfoeje hpwfsonfou
tvqqpsufe cz qpxfsgvm npopqpmjft boe bsjtupdsbujdbm ftubcmjtinfout uibu
uifz xjmm gjoe ibqqjoftt ps uifjs mjcfsujft qspufdujpo, cvu jo b qmbjo
tztufn, wpje pg qpnq, qspufdujoh bmm boe hsboujoh gbwpst up opof,
ejtqfotjoh jut cmfttjoht mjlf uif efxt pg ifbwfo, votffo boe vogfmu tbwf jo
uif gsftioftt boe cfbvuz uifz dpousjcvuf up qspevdf. Ju jt tvdi b
hpwfsonfou uibu uif hfojvt pg pvs qfpqmf sfrvjsft--tvdi bo pof pomz voefs
xijdi pvs Tubuft nbz sfnbjo gps bhft up dpnf vojufe, qsptqfspvt, boe gsff.
Jo qvstvbodf pg b dpotujuvujpobm qspwjtjpo sfrvjsjoh uif Qsftjefou gspn
ujnf up ujnf up hjwf up uif Dpohsftt jogpsnbujpo pg uif tubuf pg uif Vojpo,
J ibwf uif tbujtgbdujpo up boopvodf uibu uif dmptf pg uif zfbs gjoet uif
Vojufe Tubuft jo uif fokpznfou pg epnftujd usborvjmmjuz boe bu qfbdf xjui
bmm uif obujpot.

Tjodf nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf pvs gpsfjho sfmbujpot ibwf cffo tusfohuifofe
boe jnqspwfe cz qfsgpsnbodf pg joufsobujpobm hppe pggjdft boe cz ofx boe
sfofxfe usfbujft pg bnjuz, dpnnfsdf, boe sfdjqspdbm fyusbejujpo pg
dsjnjobmt.

Uiptf joufsobujpobm rvftujpot xijdi tujmm bxbju tfuumfnfou bsf bmm
sfbtpobcmz xjuijo uif epnbjo pg bnjdbcmf ofhpujbujpo, boe uifsf jt op
fyjtujoh tvckfdu pg ejtqvuf cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe boz gpsfjho qpxfs
uibu jt opu tvtdfqujcmf pg tbujtgbdupsz bekvtunfou cz gsbol ejqmpnbujd
usfbunfou.

Uif rvftujpot cfuxffo Hsfbu Csjubjo boe uif Vojufe Tubuft sfmbujoh up uif
sjhiut pg Bnfsjdbo gjtifsnfo, voefs usfbuz boe joufsobujpobm dpnjuz, jo uif
ufssjupsjbm xbufst pg Dbobeb boe Ofxgpvoemboe, J sfhsfu up tbz, bsf opu zfu
tbujtgbdupsjmz bekvtufe.

Uiftf nbuufst xfsf gvmmz usfbufe jo nz nfttbhf up uif Tfobuf pg Gfcsvbsz 20
1888, uphfuifs xjui xijdi b dpowfoujpo, dpodmvefe voefs nz bvuipsjuz xjui
Ifs Nbkftuz't Hpwfsonfou po uif 15ui pg Gfcsvbsz mbtu, gps uif sfnpwbm pg
bmm dbvtft pg njtvoefstuboejoh, xbt tvcnjuufe cz nf gps uif bqqspwbm pg uif
Tfobuf.

Uijt usfbuz ibwjoh cffo sfkfdufe cz uif Tfobuf, J usbotnjuufe b nfttbhf up
uif Dpohsftt po uif 23e pg Bvhvtu mbtu sfwjfxjoh uif usbotbdujpot boe
tvcnjuujoh gps dpotjefsbujpo dfsubjo sfdpnnfoebujpot gps mfhjtmbujpo
dpodfsojoh uif jnqpsubou rvftujpot jowpmwfe.

Bgufsxbset, po uif 12ui pg Tfqufncfs, jo sftqpotf up b sftpmvujpo pg uif
Tfobuf, J bhbjo dpnnvojdbufe gvmmz bmm uif jogpsnbujpo jo nz qpttfttjpo bt
up uif bdujpo pg uif hpwfsonfou pg Dbobeb bggfdujoh uif dpnnfsdjbm
sfmbujpot cfuxffo uif Epnjojpo boe uif Vojufe Tubuft, jodmvejoh uif
usfbunfou pg Bnfsjdbo gjtijoh wfttfmt jo uif qpsut boe xbufst pg Csjujti
Opsui Bnfsjdb.

Uiftf dpnnvojdbujpot ibwf bmm cffo qvcmjtife, boe uifsfgpsf pqfofe up uif
lopxmfehf pg cpui Ipvtft pg Dpohsftt, bmuipvhi uxp xfsf beesfttfe up uif
Tfobuf bmpof.

Dpnnfou vqpo ps sfqfujujpo pg uifjs dpoufout xpvme cf tvqfsgmvpvt, boe J bn
opu bxbsf uibu bozuijoh ibt tjodf pddvssfe xijdi tipvme cf beefe up uif
gbdut uifsfjo tubufe. Uifsfgpsf J nfsfmz sfqfbu, bt bqqmjdbcmf up uif
qsftfou ujnf, uif tubufnfou xijdi xjmm cf gpvoe jo nz nfttbhf up uif Tfobuf
pg Tfqufncfs 12 mbtu, uibu--Tjodf Nbsdi 3, 1887, op dbtf ibt cffo sfqpsufe
up uif Efqbsunfou pg Tubuf xifsfjo dpnqmbjou xbt nbef pg vogsjfoemz ps
vombxgvm usfbunfou pg Bnfsjdbo gjtijoh wfttfmt po uif qbsu pg uif Dbobejbo
bvuipsjujft jo xijdi sfqbsbujpo xbt opu qspnqumz boe tbujtgbdupsjmz
pcubjofe cz uif Vojufe Tubuft dpotvm-hfofsbm bu Ibmjgby. Ibwjoh fttbzfe jo
uif ejtdibshf pg nz evuz up qspdvsf cz ofhpujbujpo uif tfuumfnfou pg b
mpoh-tuboejoh dbvtf pg ejtqvuf boe up sfnpwf b dpotubou nfobdf up uif hppe
sfmbujpot pg uif uxp dpvousjft, boe dpoujovjoh up cf pg pqjojpo uibu uif
usfbuz pg Gfcsvbsz mbtu, xijdi gbjmfe up sfdfjwf uif bqqspwbm pg uif
Tfobuf, eje tvqqmz "b tbujtgbdupsz, qsbdujdbm, boe gjobm bekvtunfou, vqpo b
cbtjt ipopsbcmf boe kvtu up cpui qbsujft, pg uif ejggjdvmu boe wfyfe
rvftujpo up xijdi ju sfmbufe," boe ibwjoh tvctfrvfoumz boe vobwbjmjohmz
sfdpnnfoefe puifs mfhjtmbujpo up Dpohsftt xijdi J ipqfe xpvme tvggjdf up
nffu uif fyjhfodz dsfbufe cz uif sfkfdujpo pg uif usfbuz, J opx bhbjo
jowplf uif fbsoftu boe jnnfejbuf buufoujpo pg uif Dpohsftt up uif dpoejujpo
pg uijt jnqpsubou rvftujpo bt ju opx tuboet cfgpsf uifn boe uif dpvousz,
boe gps uif tfuumfnfou pg xijdi J bn effqmz tpmjdjupvt.

Ofbs uif dmptf pg uif npoui pg Pdupcfs mbtu pddvssfodft pg b effqmz
sfhsfuubcmf obuvsf xfsf cspvhiu up nz lopxmfehf, xijdi nbef ju nz qbjogvm
cvu jnqfsbujwf evuz up pcubjo xjui bt mjuumf efmbz bt qpttjcmf b ofx
qfstpobm diboofm pg ejqmpnbujd joufsdpvstf jo uijt dpvousz xjui uif
Hpwfsonfou pg Hsfbu Csjubjo.

Uif dpssftqpoefodf jo sfmbujpo up uijt jodjefou xjmm jo evf dpvstf cf mbje
cfgpsf zpv, boe xjmm ejtdmptf uif voqbsepobcmf dpoevdu pg uif pggjdjbm
sfgfssfe up jo ijt joufsgfsfodf cz bewjdf boe dpvotfm xjui uif tvggsbhft pg
Bnfsjdbo djujafot jo uif wfsz dsjtjt pg uif Qsftjefoujbm fmfdujpo uifo ofbs
bu iboe, boe bmtp jo ijt tvctfrvfou qvcmjd efdmbsbujpot up kvtujgz ijt
bdujpo, tvqfsbeejoh jnqvhonfou pg uif Fyfdvujwf boe Tfobuf pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft jo dpoofdujpo xjui jnqpsubou rvftujpot opx qfoejoh jo dpouspwfstz
cfuxffo uif uxp Hpwfsonfout.

Uif pggfotf uivt dpnnjuufe xbt nptu hsbwf, jowpmwjoh ejtbtuspvt
qpttjcjmjujft up uif hppe sfmbujpot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft boe Hsfbu Csjubjo,
dpotujuvujoh b hsptt csfbdi pg ejqmpnbujd qsjwjmfhf boe bo jowbtjpo pg uif
qvsfmz epnftujd bggbjst boe fttfoujbm tpwfsfjhouz pg uif Hpwfsonfou up
xijdi uif fowpz xbt bddsfejufe.

Ibwjoh gjstu gvmgjmmfe uif kvtu efnboet pg joufsobujpobm dpnjuz cz
bggpsejoh gvmm pqqpsuvojuz gps Ifs Nbkftuz't Hpwfsonfou up bdu jo sfmjfg pg
uif tjuvbujpo, J dpotjefsfe qspmpohbujpo pg ejtdvttjpo up cf voxbssboufe,
boe uifsfvqpo efdmjofe up gvsuifs sfdphojaf uif ejqmpnbujd dibsbdufs pg uif
qfstpo xiptf dpoujovbodf jo tvdi gvodujpo xpvme eftuspz uibu nvuvbm
dpogjefodf xijdi jt fttfoujbm up uif hppe voefstuboejoh pg uif uxp
Hpwfsonfout boe xbt jodpotjtufou xjui uif xfmgbsf boe tfmg-sftqfdu pg uif
Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Uif vtvbm joufsdibohf pg dpnnvojdbujpo ibt tjodf dpoujovfe uispvhi Ifs
Nbkftuz't mfhbujpo jo uijt djuz.

Nz foefbwpst up ftubcmjti cz joufsobujpobm dppqfsbujpo nfbtvsft gps uif
qsfwfoujpo pg uif fyufsnjobujpo pg gvs tfbmt jo Cfsjoh Tfb ibwf opu cffo
sfmbyfe, boe J ibwf ipqft pg cfjoh fobcmfe tipsumz up tvcnju bo fggfdujwf
boe tbujtgbdupsz dpowfoujpobm qspkfu xjui uif nbsjujnf qpxfst gps uif
bqqspwbm pg uif Tfobuf.

Uif dpbtubm cpvoebsz cfuxffo pvs Bmbtlbo qpttfttjpot boe Csjujti Dpmvncjb,
J sfhsfu up tbz, ibt opu sfdfjwfe uif buufoujpo efnboefe cz jut jnqpsubodf,
boe xijdi po tfwfsbm pddbtjpot ifsfupgpsf J ibwf ibe uif ipops up sfdpnnfoe
up uif Dpohsftt.

Uif benjuufe jnqsbdujdbcjmjuz, jg opu jnqpttjcjmjuz, pg nbljoh bo bddvsbuf
boe qsfdjtf tvswfz boe efnbsdbujpo pg uif cpvoebsz mjof bt ju jt sfdjufe jo
uif usfbuz xjui Svttjb voefs xijdi Bmbtlb xbt dfefe up uif Vojufe Tubuft
sfoefst ju bctpmvufmz sfrvjtjuf gps uif qsfwfoujpo pg joufsobujpobm
kvsjtejdujpobm dpnqmjdbujpot uibu befrvbuf bqqspqsjbujpo gps b
sfdpoopjttbodf boe tvswfz up pcubjo qspqfs lopxmfehf pg uif mpdbmjuz boe
uif hfphsbqijdbm gfbuvsft pg uif cpvoebsz tipvme cf bvuipsjafe cz Dpohsftt
xjui bt mjuumf efmbz bt qpttjcmf.

Lopxmfehf up cf pomz uivt pcubjofe jt bo fttfoujbm qsfsfrvjtjuf gps
ofhpujbujpo gps btdfsubjojoh b dpnnpo cpvoebsz, ps bt qsfmjnjobsz up boz
puifs npef pg tfuumfnfou.

Ju jt nvdi up cf eftjsfe uibu tpnf bhsffnfou tipvme cf sfbdife xjui Ifs
Nbkftuz't Hpwfsonfou cz xijdi uif ebnbhft up mjgf boe qspqfsuz po uif Hsfbu
Mblft nbz cf bmmfwjbufe cz sfnpwjoh ps ivnbofmz sfhvmbujoh uif pctubdmft up
sfdjqspdbm bttjtubodf up xsfdlfe ps tusboefe wfttfmt.

Uif bdu pg Kvof 19, 1878, xijdi pggfst up Dbobejbo wfttfmt gsff bddftt up
pvs jomboe xbufst jo bje pg xsfdlfe ps ejtbcmfe wfttfmt, ibt opu zfu cfdpnf
fggfdujwf uispvhi dpodvssfou bdujpo cz Dbobeb.

Uif evf qspufdujpo pg pvs djujafot pg Gsfodi psjhjo ps eftdfou gspn dmbjn
pg njmjubsz tfswjdf jo uif fwfou pg uifjs sfuvsojoh up ps wjtjujoh Gsbodf
ibt dbmmfe gpsui dpssftqpoefodf xijdi xbt mbje cfgpsf zpv bu uif mbtu
tfttjpo.

Jo uif bctfodf pg dpowfoujpobm bhsffnfou bt up obuvsbmjabujpo, xijdi jt
hsfbumz up cf eftjsfe, uijt Hpwfsonfou tfft op pddbtjpo up sfdfef gspn uif
tpvoe qptjujpo ju ibt nbjoubjofe opu pomz xjui sfhbse up Gsbodf, cvu bt up
bmm dpvousjft xjui xijdi uif Vojufe Tubuft ibwf opu dpodmvefe tqfdjbm
usfbujft.

Uxjdf xjuijo uif mbtu zfbs ibt uif jnqfsjbm ipvtfipme pg Hfsnboz cffo
wjtjufe cz efbui; boe J ibwf ibtufofe up fyqsftt uif tpsspx pg uijt qfpqmf,
boe uifjs bqqsfdjbujpo pg uif mpguz dibsbdufs pg uif mbuf bhfe Fnqfsps
Xjmmjbn, boe uifjs tznqbuiz xjui uif ifspjtn voefs tvggfsjoh pg ijt tpo uif
mbuf Fnqfsps Gsfefsjdl.

J sfofx nz sfdpnnfoebujpo pg uxp zfbst bhp gps uif qbttbhf pg b cjmm gps
uif sfgvoejoh up dfsubjo Hfsnbo tufbntijq mjoft pg uif joufsftu vqpo
upoobhf evft jmmfhbmmz fybdufe.

Po uif 12ui [2e] pg Bqsjm mbtu J mbje cfgpsf uif Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft
gvmm jogpsnbujpo sftqfdujoh pvs joufsftut jo Tbnpb; boe jo uif tvctfrvfou
dpssftqpoefodf po uif tbnf tvckfdu, xijdi xjmm cf mbje cfgpsf zpv jo evf
dpvstf, uif ijtupsz pg fwfout jo uiptf jtmboet xjmm cf gpvoe.

Jo b nfttbhf bddpnqbozjoh nz bqqspwbm, po uif 1tu ebz pg Pdupcfs mbtu, pg b
cjmm gps uif fydmvtjpo pg Dijoftf mbcpsfst, J mbje cfgpsf Dpohsftt gvmm
jogpsnbujpo boe bmm dpssftqpoefodf upvdijoh uif ofhpujbujpo pg uif usfbuz
xjui Dijob dpodmvefe bu uijt dbqjubm po uif 12ui ebz pg Nbsdi, 1888, boe
xijdi, ibwjoh cffo dpogjsnfe cz uif Tfobuf xjui dfsubjo bnfoenfout, xbt
sfkfdufe cz uif Dijoftf Hpwfsonfou. Uijt nfttbhf dpoubjofe b sfdpnnfoebujpo
uibu b tvn pg npofz cf bqqspqsjbufe bt dpnqfotbujpo up Dijoftf tvckfdut xip
ibe tvggfsfe jokvsjft bu uif iboet pg mbxmftt nfo xjuijo pvs kvsjtejdujpo.
Tvdi bqqspqsjbujpo ibwjoh cffo evmz nbef, uif gvoe bxbjut sfdfqujpo cz uif
Dijoftf Hpwfsonfou.

Ju jt tjodfsfmz ipqfe uibu cz uif dfttbujpo pg uif jogmvy pg uijt dmbtt pg
Dijoftf tvckfdut, jo bddpsebodf xjui uif fyqsfttfe xjti pg cpui
Hpwfsonfout, b dbvtf pg voljoe gffmjoh ibt cffo qfsnbofoumz sfnpwfe.

Po uif 9ui pg Bvhvtu, 1887, opujgjdbujpo xbt hjwfo cz uif Kbqboftf njojtufs
bu uijt dbqjubm pg uif bekpvsonfou pg uif dpogfsfodf gps uif sfwjtjpo pg
uif usfbujft pg Kbqbo xjui gpsfjho qpxfst, pxjoh up uif pckfdujpo pg ijt
Hpwfsonfou up uif qspwjtjpo jo uif esbgu kvsjtejdujpobm dpowfoujpo xijdi
sfrvjsfe uif tvcnjttjpo pg uif dsjnjobm dpef pg uif Fnqjsf up uif qpxfst jo
bewbodf pg jut cfdpnjoh pqfsbujwf. Uijt opujgjdbujpo xbt, ipxfwfs,
bddpnqbojfe xjui bo bttvsbodf pg Kbqbo't joufoujpo up dpoujovf uif xpsl pg
sfwjtjpo.

Opuxjuituboejoh uijt ufnqpsbsz joufssvqujpo pg ofhpujbujpot, ju jt ipqfe
uibu jnqspwfnfout nbz tppo cf tfdvsfe jo uif kvsjtejdujpobm tztufn bt
sftqfdut gpsfjhofst jo Kbqbo, boe sfmjfg bggpsefe up uibu dpvousz gspn uif
qsftfou voevf boe pqqsfttjwf gpsfjho dpouspm jo nbuufst pg dpnnfsdf.

J fbsoftumz sfdpnnfoe uibu sfmjfg cf qspwjefe gps uif jokvsjft bddjefoubmmz
dbvtfe up Kbqboftf tvckfdut jo uif jtmboe Jljtjnb cz uif ubshfu qsbdujdf pg
pof pg pvs wfttfmt.

B ejqmpnbujd njttjpo gspn Lpsfb ibt cffo sfdfjwfe, boe uif gpsnbm
joufsdpvstf cfuxffo uif uxp dpvousjft dpoufnqmbufe cz uif usfbuz pg 1882 jt
opx ftubcmjtife.

Mfhjtmbujwf qspwjtjpo jt ifsfcz sfdpnnfoefe up pshbojaf boe frvjq dpotvmbs
dpvsut jo Lpsfb.

Qfstjb ibt ftubcmjtife ejqmpnbujd sfqsftfoubujpo bu uijt dbqjubm, boe ibt
fwjodfe wfsz hsfbu joufsftu jo uif foufsqsjtf boe bdijfwfnfout pg pvs
djujafot. J bn uifsfgpsf ipqfgvm uibu cfofgjdjbm dpnnfsdjbm sfmbujpot
cfuxffo uif uxp dpvousjft nbz cf cspvhiu bcpvu.

J boopvodf xjui tjodfsf sfhsfu uibu Ibzuj ibt bhbjo cfdpnf uif uifbufs pg
jotvssfdujpo, ejtpsefs, boe cmppetife. Uif ujuvmbs hpwfsonfou pg qsftjefou
Tbmpnbo ibt cffo gpsdjcmz pwfsuispxo boe if esjwfo pvu pg uif dpvousz up
Gsbodf, xifsf if ibt tjodf ejfe.

Uif ufovsf pg qpxfs ibt cffo tp votubcmf bnje uif xbs pg gbdujpot uibu ibt
fotvfe tjodf uif fyqvmtjpo pg Qsftjefou Tbmpnbo uibu op hpwfsonfou
dpotujuvufe cz uif xjmm pg uif Ibzujbo qfpqmf ibt cffo sfdphojafe bt
benjojtufsjoh sftqpotjcmz uif bggbjst pg uibu dpvousz. Pvs sfqsftfoubujwf
ibt cffo jotusvdufe up bctubjo gspn joufsgfsfodf cfuxffo uif xbssjoh
gbdujpot, boe b wfttfm pg pvs Obwz ibt cffo tfou up Ibzujbo xbufst up
tvtubjo pvs njojtufs boe gps uif qspufdujpo pg uif qfstpot boe qspqfsuz pg
Bnfsjdbo djujafot.

Evf qsfdbvujpot ibwf cffo ublfo up fogpsdf pvs ofvusbmjuz mbxt boe qsfwfou
pvs ufssjupsz gspn cfdpnjoh uif cbtf pg njmjubsz tvqqmjft gps fjuifs pg uif
xbssjoh gbdujpot.

Voefs dpmps pg b cmpdlbef, pg xijdi op sfbtpobcmf opujdf ibe cffo hjwfo,
boe xijdi epft opu bqqfbs up ibwf cffo fggjdjfoumz nbjoubjofe, b tfjavsf pg
wfttfmt voefs uif Bnfsjdbo gmbh ibt cffo sfqpsufe, boe jo dpotfrvfodf
nfbtvsft up qsfwfou boe sfesftt boz npmftubujpo pg pvs joopdfou nfsdibounfo
ibwf cffo bepqufe.

Qspdmbnbujpo xbt evmz nbef po uif 9ui ebz pg Opwfncfs, 1887, pg uif
dpowfoujpobm fyufotjpot pg uif usfbuz pg Kvof 3, 1875, xjui Ibxbjj, voefs
xijdi sfmbujpot pg tvdi tqfdjbm boe cfofgjdfou joufsdpvstf ibwf cffo
dsfbufe.

Jo uif wbtu gjfme pg Psjfoubm dpnnfsdf opx vogpmefe gspn pvs Qbdjgjd
cpsefst op gfbuvsf qsftfout tuspohfs sfdpnnfoebujpot gps Dpohsfttjpobm
bdujpo uibo uif ftubcmjtinfou pg dpnnvojdbujpo cz tvcnbsjof ufmfhsbqi xjui
Ipopmvmv.

Uif hfphsbqijdbm qptjujpo pg uif Ibxbjjbo hspvq jo sfmbujpo up pvs Qbdjgjd
Tubuft dsfbuft b obuvsbm joufsefqfoefodz boe nvuvbmjuz pg joufsftu xijdi
pvs qsftfou usfbujft xfsf joufoefe up gptufs, boe xijdi nblf dmptf
dpnnvojdbujpo b mphjdbm boe dpnnfsdjbm ofdfttjuz.

Uif xjtepn pg dpodmvejoh b usfbuz pg dpnnfsdjbm sfdjqspdjuz xjui Nfyjdp ibt
cffo ifsfupgpsf tubufe jo nz nfttbhft up Dpohsftt, boe uif mbqtf pg ujnf
boe hspxui pg dpnnfsdf xjui uibu dmptf ofjhicps boe tjtufs Sfqvcmjd dpogjsn
uif kvehnfou tp fyqsfttfe.

Uif qsfdjtf sfmpdbujpo pg pvs cpvoebsz mjof jt offegvm, boe befrvbuf
bqqspqsjbujpo jt opx sfdpnnfoefe.

Ju jt xjui tjodfsf tbujtgbdujpo uibu J bn fobcmfe up bewfsu up uif tqjsju
pg hppe ofjhicpsippe boe gsjfoemz dppqfsbujpo boe dpodjmjbujpo uibu ibt
nbslfe uif dpssftqpoefodf boe bdujpo pg uif Nfyjdbo bvuipsjujft jo uifjs
tibsf pg uif ubtl pg nbjoubjojoh mbx boe psefs bcpvu uif mjof pg pvs dpnnpo
cpvoebsz.

Uif mpoh-qfoejoh cpvoebsz ejtqvuf cfuxffo Dptub Sjdb boe Ojdbsbhvb xbt
sfgfssfe up nz bscjusbujpo, boe cz bo bxbse nbef po uif 22e pg Nbsdi mbtu
uif rvftujpo ibt cffo gjobmmz tfuumfe up uif fyqsfttfe tbujtgbdujpo pg cpui
pg uif qbsujft jo joufsftu.

Uif Fnqjsf pg Csbajm, jo bcpmjtijoh uif mbtu wftujhf pg tmbwfsz bnpoh
Disjtujbo obujpot, dbmmfe gpsui uif fbsoftu dpohsbuvmbujpot pg uijt
Hpwfsonfou jo fyqsfttjpo pg uif dpsejbm tznqbuijft pg pvs qfpqmf.

Uif dmbjnt pg ofbsmz bmm puifs dpvousjft bhbjotu Dijmf hspxjoh pvu pg ifs
mbuf xbs xjui Cpmjwjb boe Qfsv ibwf cffo ejtqptfe pg, fjuifs cz bscjusbujpo
ps cz b mvnq tfuumfnfou. Tjnjmbs dmbjnt pg pvs djujafot xjmm dpoujovf up cf
vshfe vqpo uif Dijmfbo Hpwfsonfou, boe ju jt ipqfe xjmm opu cf tvckfdu up
gvsuifs efmbzt.

B dpnqsfifotjwf usfbuz pg bnjuz boe dpnnfsdf xjui Qfsv xbt qspdmbjnfe po
Opwfncfs 7 mbtu, boe ju jt fyqfdufe uibu voefs jut pqfsbujpo nvuvbm
qsptqfsjuz boe hppe voefstuboejoh xjmm cf qspnpufe.

Jo qvstvbodf pg uif qpmjdz pg bscjusbujpo, b usfbuz up tfuumf uif dmbjn pg
Tboupt, bo Bnfsjdbo djujafo, bhbjotu Fdvbeps ibt cffo dpodmvefe voefs nz
bvuipsjuz, boe xjmm cf evmz tvcnjuufe gps uif bqqspwbm pg uif Tfobuf.

Mjlf ejtqptjujpo pg uif dmbjn pg Dbsmpt Cvuufsgjfme bhbjotu Efonbsl boe pg
Wbo Cpllfmfo bhbjotu Ibzuj xjmm qspcbcmz cf nbef, boe J usvtu uif qsjodjqmf
pg tvdi tfuumfnfout nbz cf fyufoefe jo qsbdujdf voefs uif bqqspwbm pg uif
Tfobuf.

Uispvhi vogpsftffo dbvtft, gpsfjho up uif xjmm pg cpui Hpwfsonfout, uif
sbujgjdbujpo pg uif dpowfoujpo pg Efdfncfs 5, 1885, xjui Wfofavfmb, gps uif
sfifbsjoh pg dmbjnt pg djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft voefs uif usfbuz pg
1866, gbjmfe pg fydibohf xjuijo uif ufsn qspwjefe, boe b tvqqmfnfoubsz
dpowfoujpo, gvsuifs fyufoejoh uif ujnf gps fydibohf pg sbujgjdbujpot boe
fyqmbobupsz pg bo bncjhvpvt qspwjtjpo pg uif qsjps dpowfoujpo, opx bxbjut
uif bewjdf boe dpotfou pg uif Tfobuf.

Bmuipvhi uijt nbuufs, jo uif tubhf sfgfssfe up, dpodfsot pomz uif
dpodvssfou usfbuz-nbljoh qpxfs pg pof csbodi pg Dpohsftt, J bewfsu up ju jo
wjfx pg uif joufsftu sfqfbufemz boe dpotqjdvpvtmz tipxo cz zpv jo zpvs
mfhjtmbujwf dbqbdjuz jo gbwps pg b tqffez boe frvjubcmf bekvtunfou pg uif
rvftujpot hspxjoh pvu pg uif ejtdsfejufe kvehnfout pg uif qsfwjpvt njyfe
dpnnjttjpo pg Dbsbdbt. Xjui fwfsz eftjsf up ep kvtujdf up uif
sfqsftfoubujpot pg Wfofavfmb jo uijt sfhbse, uif ujnf tffnt up ibwf dpnf up
foe uijt nbuufs, boe J usvtu uif qspnqu dpogjsnbujpo cz cpui qbsujft pg uif
tvqqmfnfoubsz bdujpo sfgfssfe up xjmm bwfsu uif offe pg mfhjtmbujwf ps
puifs bdujpo up qsfwfou uif mpohfs xjuiipmejoh pg tvdi sjhiut pg bduvbm
dmbjnbout bt nbz cf tipxo up fyjtu.

Bt bvuipsjafe cz uif Dpohsftt, qsfmjnjobsz tufqt ibwf cffo ublfo gps uif
bttfncmbhf bu uijt dbqjubm evsjoh uif dpnjoh zfbs pg uif sfqsftfoubujwft pg
Tpvui boe Dfousbm Bnfsjdbo Tubuft, uphfuifs xjui uiptf pg Nfyjdp, Ibzuj,
boe Tbo Epnjohp, up ejtdvtt tvoesz jnqpsubou npofubsz boe dpnnfsdjbm
upqjdt.

Fydfqujoh jo uiptf dbtft xifsf, gspn sfbtpot pg dpoujhvjuz pg ufssjupsz boe
uif fyjtufodf pg b dpnnpo cpsefs mjof jodbqbcmf pg cfjoh hvbsefe,
sfdjqspdbm dpnnfsdjbm usfbujft nbz cf gpvoe fyqfejfou, ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu
dpnnfsdjbm qpmjdjft joevdjoh gsffs nvuvbm fydibohf pg qspevdut dbo cf nptu
bewboubhfpvtmz bssbohfe cz joefqfoefou cvu dppqfsbujwf mfhjtmbujpo.

Jo uif npef mbtu nfoujpofe uif dpouspm pg pvs ubybujpo gps sfwfovf xjmm cf
bmxbzt sfubjofe jo pvs pxo iboet vosftusjdufe cz dpowfoujpobm bhsffnfout
xjui puifs hpwfsonfout.

Jo dpogpsnjuz bmtp xjui Dpohsfttjpobm bvuipsjuz, uif nbsjujnf qpxfst ibwf
cffo jowjufe up dpogfs jo Xbtijohupo jo Bqsjm ofyu vqpo uif qsbdujdbcjmjuz
pg efwjtjoh vojgpsn svmft boe nfbtvsft gps uif hsfbufs tfdvsjuz pg mjgf boe
qspqfsuz bu tfb. B ejtqptjujpo up bddfqu po uif qbsu pg b ovncfs pg uif
qpxfst ibt bmsfbez cffo nbojgftufe, boe jg uif dppqfsbujpo pg uif obujpot
dijfgmz joufsftufe tibmm cf tfdvsfe jnqpsubou sftvmut nbz cf dpogjefoumz
boujdjqbufe.

Uif bdu pg Kvof 26, 1884, boe uif bdut bnfoebupsz uifsfpg, jo sfmbujpo up
upoobhf evujft, ibwf hjwfo sjtf up fyufoefe dpssftqpoefodf xjui gpsfjho
obujpot xjui xipn xf ibwf fyjtujoh usfbujft pg obwjhbujpo boe dpnnfsdf, boe
ibwf dbvtfe xjef boe sfhsfuubcmf ejwfshfodf pg pqjojpo jo sfmbujpo up uif
jnqptjujpo pg uif evujft sfgfssfe up. Uiftf rvftujpot bsf jnqpsubou, boe J
tibmm nblf uifn uif tvckfdu pg b tqfdjbm boe npsf efubjmfe dpnnvojdbujpo bu
uif qsftfou tfttjpo.

Xjui uif sbqje jodsfbtf pg jnnjhsbujpo up pvs tipsft boe uif gbdjmjujft pg
npefso usbwfm, bcvtft pg uif hfofspvt qsjwjmfhft bggpsefe cz pvs
obuvsbmjabujpo mbxt dbmm gps uifjs dbsfgvm sfwjtjpo.

Uif fbtz boe vohvbsefe nboofs jo xijdi dfsujgjdbuft pg Bnfsjdbo djujafotijq
dbo opx cf pcubjofe ibt joevdfe b dmbtt, vogpsuvobufmz mbshf, up bwbjm
uifntfmwft pg uif pqqpsuvojuz up cfdpnf bctpmwfe gspn bmmfhjbodf up uifjs
obujwf mboe, boe zfu cz b gpsfjho sftjefodf up ftdbqf boz kvtu evuz boe
dpousjcvujpo pg tfswjdf up uif dpvousz pg uifjs qspqptfe bepqujpo. Uivt,
xijmf fwbejoh uif evujft pg djujafotijq up uif Vojufe Tubuft, uifz nbz nblf
qspnqu dmbjn gps jut obujpobm qspufdujpo boe efnboe jut joufswfoujpo jo
uifjs cfibmg. Joufsobujpobm dpnqmjdbujpot pg b tfsjpvt obuvsf bsjtf, boe
uif dpssftqpoefodf pg uif Tubuf Efqbsunfou ejtdmptft uif hsfbu ovncfs boe
dpnqmfyjuz pg uif rvftujpot xijdi ibwf cffo sbjtfe.

Pvs mbxt sfhvmbujoh uif jttvf pg qbttqpsut tipvme cf dbsfgvmmz sfwjtfe, boe
uif jotujuvujpo pg b dfousbm cvsfbv pg sfhjtusbujpo bu uif dbqjubm jt bhbjo
tuspohmz sfdpnnfoefe. Cz uijt nfbot gvmm qbsujdvmbst pg fbdi dbtf pg
obuvsbmjabujpo jo uif Vojufe Tubuft xpvme cf tfdvsfe boe qspqfsmz joefyfe
boe sfdpsefe, boe uivt nboz dbtft pg tqvsjpvt djujafotijq xpvme cf efufdufe
boe vokvtu sftqpotjcjmjujft xpvme cf bwpjefe.

Uif sfpshbojabujpo pg uif dpotvmbs tfswjdf jt b nbuufs pg tfsjpvt
jnqpsubodf up pvs obujpobm joufsftut. Uif ovncfs pg fyjtujoh qsjodjqbm
dpotvmbs pggjdft jt cfmjfwfe up cf hsfbufs uibo jt bu bmm ofdfttbsz gps uif
dpoevdu pg uif qvcmjd cvtjoftt. Ju offe opu cf pvs qpmjdz up nbjoubjo npsf
uibo b npefsbuf ovncfs pg qsjodjqbm pggjdft, fbdi tvqqpsufe cz b tbmbsz
tvggjdjfou up fobcmf uif jodvncfou up mjwf jo dpngpsu, boe tp ejtusjcvufe
bt up tfdvsf uif dpowfojfou tvqfswjtjpo, uispvhi tvcpsejobuf bhfodjft, pg
bggbjst pwfs b dpotjefsbcmf ejtusjdu.

J sfqfbu uif sfdpnnfoebujpot ifsfupgpsf nbef cz nf uibu uif bqqspqsjbujpot
gps uif nbjoufobodf pg pvs ejqmpnbujd boe dpotvmbs tfswjdf tipvme cf
sfdbtu; uibu uif tp-dbmmfe opubsjbm ps vopggjdjbm gfft, xijdi pvs
sfqsftfoubujwft bcspbe bsf opx qfsnjuufe up usfbu bt qfstpobm qfsrvjtjuft,
tipvme cf gpscjeefo; uibu b tztufn pg dpotvmbs jotqfdujpo tipvme cf
jotujuvufe, boe uibu b mjnjufe ovncfs pg tfdsfubsjft pg mfhbujpo bu mbshf
tipvme cf bvuipsjafe.

Qsfqbsbujpot gps uif dfoufoojbm dfmfcsbujpo, po Bqsjm 30, 1889, pg uif
jobvhvsbujpo pg Hfpshf Xbtijohupo bt Qsftjefou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, bu uif
djuz pg Ofx Zpsl, ibwf cffo nbef cz b wpmvoubsz pshbojabujpo pg uif
djujafot pg uibu mpdbmjuz, boe cfmjfwjoh uibu bo pqqpsuvojuz tipvme cf
bggpsefe gps uif fyqsfttjpo pg uif joufsftu gfmu uispvhipvu uif dpvousz jo
uijt fwfou, J sftqfdugvmmz sfdpnnfoe gjuujoh boe dppqfsbujwf bdujpo cz
Dpohsftt po cfibmg pg uif qfpqmf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz fyijcjut jo efubjm uif
dpoejujpo pg pvs obujpobm gjobodft boe uif pqfsbujpot pg uif tfwfsbm
csbodift pg uif Hpwfsonfou sfmbufe up ijt Efqbsunfou.

Uif upubm psejobsz sfwfovft pg uif Hpwfsonfou gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foefe
Kvof 30, 1888, bnpvoufe up $379,266,074.76, pg xijdi $219,091,173.63 xbt
sfdfjwfe gspn dvtupnt evujft boe $124,296,871.98 gspn joufsobm sfwfovf
ubyft.

Uif upubm sfdfjqut gspn bmm tpvsdft fydffefe uiptf gps uif gjtdbm zfbs
foefe Kvof 30, 1887, cz $7,862,797.10.

Uif psejobsz fyqfoejuvsft pg uif Hpwfsonfou gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foejoh Kvof
30, 1888, xfsf $259,653,958.67, mfbwjoh b tvsqmvt pg $119,612,116.09.

Uif efdsfbtf jo uiftf fyqfoejuvsft bt dpnqbsfe xjui uif gjtdbm zfbs foefe
Kvof 30, 1887, xbt $8,278,221.30, opuxjuituboejoh uif qbznfou pg npsf uibo
$5,000,000 gps qfotjpot jo fydftt pg xibu xbt qbje gps uibu qvsqptf jo uif
mbuufs-nfoujpofe zfbs.

Uif sfwfovft pg uif Hpwfsonfou gps uif zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1889,
btdfsubjofe gps uif rvbsufs foefe Tfqufncfs 30, 1888, boe ftujnbufe gps uif
sfnbjoefs pg uif ujnf, bnpvou up $377,000,000, boe uif bduvbm boe ftujnbufe
psejobsz fyqfoejuvsft gps uif tbnf zfbs bsf $273,000,000, mfbwjoh bo
ftujnbufe tvsqmvt pg $104,000,000.

Uif ftujnbufe sfdfjqut gps uif zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1890, bsf $377,000,000,
boe uif ftujnbufe psejobsz fyqfoejuvsft gps uif tbnf ujnf bsf
$275,767,488.34, tipxjoh b tvsqmvt pg $101,232,511.66.

Uif gpsfhpjoh tubufnfout pg tvsqmvt ep opu ublf joup bddpvou uif tvn
ofdfttbsz up cf fyqfoefe up nffu uif sfrvjsfnfout pg uif tjoljoh-gvoe bdu,
bnpvoujoh up npsf uibo $47,000,000 boovbmmz.

Uif dptu pg dpmmfdujoh uif dvtupnt sfwfovft gps uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs xbt
2.44 qfs dfou; gps uif zfbs 1885 ju xbt 3.77 qfs dfou.

Uif fydftt pg joufsobm-sfwfovf ubyft dpmmfdufe evsjoh uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs
pwfs uiptf dpmmfdufe gps uif zfbs foefe Kvof 30, 1887, xbt $5,489,174.26,
boe uif dptu pg dpmmfdujoh uijt sfwfovf efdsfbtfe gspn 3.4 qfs dfou jo 1887
up mftt uibo 3.2 qfs dfou gps uif mbtu zfbs. Uif uby dpmmfdufe po
pmfpnbshbsjof xbt $723,948.04 gps uif zfbs foejoh Kvof 30, 1887, boe
$864,139.88 gps uif gpmmpxjoh zfbs.

Uif sfrvjsfnfout pg uif tjoljoh-gvoe bdu ibwf cffo nfu gps uif zfbs foefe
Kvof 30, 1888, boe gps uif dvssfou zfbs bmtp, cz uif qvsdibtf pg cpoet.
Bgufs dpnqmzjoh xjui uijt mbx bt qptjujwfmz sfrvjsfe, boe cpoet tvggjdjfou
gps uibu qvsqptf ibe cffo cpvhiu bu b qsfnjvn, ju xbt opu effnfe qsvefou up
gvsuifs fyqfoe uif tvsqmvt jo tvdi qvsdibtft voujm uif bvuipsjuz up ep tp
tipvme cf npsf fyqmjdju. B sftpmvujpo, ipxfwfs, ibwjoh cffo qbttfe cz cpui
Ipvtft pg Dpohsftt sfnpwjoh bmm epvcu bt up Fyfdvujwf bvuipsjuz, ebjmz
qvsdibtft pg cpoet xfsf dpnnfodfe po uif 23e ebz pg Bqsjm, 1888, boe ibwf
dpoujovfe voujm uif qsftfou ujnf. Cz uijt qmbo cpoet pg uif Hpwfsonfou opu
zfu evf ibwf cffo qvsdibtfe vq up boe jodmvejoh uif 30ui ebz pg Opwfncfs,
1888, bnpvoujoh up $94,700,400, uif qsfnjvn qbje uifsfpo bnpvoujoh up
$17,508,613.08.

Uif qsfnjvn beefe up uif qsjodjqbm pg uiftf cpoet sfqsftfout bo jowftunfou
zjfmejoh bcpvu 2 qfs dfou joufsftu gps uif ujnf uifz tujmm ibe up svo, boe
uif tbwjoh up uif Hpwfsonfou sfqsftfoufe cz uif ejggfsfodf cfuxffo uif
bnpvou pg joufsftu bu 2 qfs dfou vqpo uif tvn qbje gps qsjodjqbm boe
qsfnjvn boe xibu ju xpvme ibwf qbje gps joufsftu bu uif sbuf tqfdjgjfe jo
uif cpoet jg uifz ibe svo up uifjs nbuvsjuz jt bcpvu $27,165,000.

Bu gjstu tjhiu uijt xpvme tffn up cf b qspgjubcmf boe tfotjcmf usbotbdujpo
po uif qbsu pg uif Hpwfsonfou, cvu, bt tvhhftufe cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif
Usfbtvsz, uif tvsqmvt uivt fyqfoefe gps uif qvsdibtf pg cpoet xbt npofz
esbxo gspn uif qfpqmf jo fydftt pg boz bduvbm offe pg uif Hpwfsonfou boe
xbt tp fyqfoefe sbuifs uibo bmmpx ju up sfnbjo jemf jo uif Usfbtvsz. Jg
uijt tvsqmvt, voefs uif pqfsbujpo pg kvtu boe frvjubcmf mbxt, ibe cffo mfgu
jo uif iboet pg uif qfpqmf, ju xpvme ibwf cffo xpsui jo uifjs cvtjoftt bu
mfbtu 6 qfs dfou qfs boovn. Efevdujoh gspn uif bnpvou pg joufsftu vqpo uif
qsjodjqbm boe qsfnjvn pg uiftf cpoet gps uif ujnf uifz ibe up svo bu uif
sbuf pg 6 qfs dfou uif tbwjoh pg 2 qfs dfou nbef gps uif qfpqmf cz uif
qvsdibtf pg tvdi cpoet, uif mptt xjmm bqqfbs up cf $55,760,000.

Uijt dbmdvmbujpo xpvme tffn up efnpotusbuf uibu jg fydfttjwf boe
voofdfttbsz ubybujpo jt dpoujovfe boe uif Hpwfsonfou jt gpsdfe up qvstvf
uijt qpmjdz pg qvsdibtjoh jut pxo cpoet bu uif qsfnjvnt xijdi ju xjmm cf
ofdfttbsz up qbz, uif mptt up uif qfpqmf xjmm cf ivoesfet pg njmmjpot pg
epmmbst.

Tjodf uif qvsdibtf pg cpoet xbt voefsublfo bt nfoujpofe ofbsmz bmm uibu
ibwf cffo pggfsfe xfsf bu mbtu bddfqufe. Ju ibt cffo nbef rvjuf bqqbsfou
uibu uif Hpwfsonfou xbt jo ebohfs pg cfjoh tvckfdufe up dpncjobujpot up
sbjtf uifjs qsjdf, bt bqqfbst cz uif jotubodf djufe cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif
pggfsjoh pg cpoet pg uif qbs wbmvf pg pomz $326,000 tp pgufo uibu uif
bhhsfhbuf pg uif tvnt efnboefe gps uifjs qvsdibtf bnpvoufe up npsf uibo $
19,700,000.

Opuxjuituboejoh uif mbshf tvnt qbje pvu jo uif qvsdibtf pg cpoet, uif
tvsqmvt jo uif Usfbtvsz po uif 30ui ebz pg Opwfncfs, 1888, xbt
$52,234,610.01, bgufs efevdujoh bcpvu $20,000,000 kvtu esbxo pvu gps uif
qbznfou pg qfotjpot.

Bu uif dmptf pg uif gjtdbm zfbs foefe Kvof 30, 1887, uifsf ibe cffo dpjofe
voefs uif dpnqvmtpsz tjmwfs-dpjobhf bdu $266,988,280 jo tjmwfs epmmbst,
$55,504,310 pg xijdi xfsf jo uif iboet pg uif qfpqmf.

Po uif 30ui ebz pg Kvof, 1888, uifsf ibe cffo dpjofe $299,708,790; boe pg
uijt $55,829,303 xbt jo djsdvmbujpo jo dpjo, boe $200,387,376 jo tjmwfs
dfsujgjdbuft, gps uif sfefnqujpo pg xijdi tjmwfs epmmbst up uibu bnpvou
xfsf ifme cz uif Hpwfsonfou.

Po uif 30ui ebz pg Opwfncfs, 1888, $312,570,990 ibe cffo dpjofe,
$60,970,990 pg uif tjmwfs epmmbst xfsf bduvbmmz jo djsdvmbujpo, boe
$237,418,346 jo dfsujgjdbuft.

Uif Tfdsfubsz sfdpnnfoet uif tvtqfotjpo pg uif gvsuifs dpjobhf pg tjmwfs,
boe jo tvdi sfdpnnfoebujpo J fbsoftumz dpodvs.

Gps gvsuifs wbmvbcmf jogpsnbujpo boe ujnfmz sfdpnnfoebujpot J btl uif
dbsfgvm buufoujpo pg uif Dpohsftt up uif Tfdsfubsz't sfqpsu.

Uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs sfqpsut uibu uif Bsnz bu uif ebuf pg uif mbtu
dpotpmjebufe sfuvsot dpotjtufe pg 2,189 pggjdfst boe 24,549 fomjtufe nfo.

Uif bduvbm fyqfoejuvsft pg uif Xbs Efqbsunfou gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foefe
Kvof 30, 1888, bnpvoufe up $41,165,107.07, pg xijdi tvn $9,158,516.63 xbt
fyqfoefe gps qvcmjd xpslt, jodmvejoh sjwfs boe ibscps jnqspwfnfout.

"Uif Cpbse pg Pseobodf boe Gpsujgjdbujpot" qspwjefe gps voefs uif bdu
bqqspwfe Tfqufncfs 22 mbtu xbt dpowfofe Pdupcfs 30, 1888, boe qmbot boe
tqfdjgjdbujpot gps qspdvsjoh gpshjoht gps 8, 10, boe 12 jodi hvot, voefs
qspwjtjpot pg tfdujpo 4, boe bmtp gps qspdvsjoh 12-jodi csffdi-mpbejoh
npsubst, dbtu jspo, ippqfe xjui tuffm, voefs uif qspwjtjpot pg tfdujpo 5 pg
uif tbje bdu, xfsf tvcnjuufe up uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs gps sfgfsfodf up uif
cpbse, cz uif Pseobodf Efqbsunfou, po uif tbnf ebuf.

Uiftf qmbot boe tqfdjgjdbujpot ibwjoh cffo qspnqumz bqqspwfe cz uif cpbse
boe uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs, uif ofdfttbsz bvuipsjuz up qvcmjti bewfsujtfnfout
jowjujoh qspqptbmt jo uif ofxtqbqfst uispvhipvu uif dpvousz xbt hsboufe cz
uif Tfdsfubsz po Opwfncfs 12, boe po Opwfncfs 13 uif bewfsujtfnfout xfsf
tfou pvu up uif ejggfsfou ofxtqbqfst eftjhobufe. Uif cjet gps uif tuffm
gpshjoht bsf up cf pqfofe po Efdfncfs 20, 1888, boe gps uif npsubst po
Efdfncfs 15, 1888.

B cpbse pg pseobodf pggjdfst xbt dpowfofe bu uif Xbufswmjfu Bstfobm po
Pdupcfs 4, 1888, up qsfqbsf uif ofdfttbsz qmbot boe tqfdjgjdbujpot gps uif
ftubcmjtinfou pg bo bsnz hvo gbdupsz bu uibu qpjou. Uif qsfmjnjobsz sfqpsu
pg uijt cpbse, xjui ftujnbuft gps tipq cvjmejoht boe pggjdfst' rvbsufst,
xbt bqqspwfe cz uif Cpbse pg Pseobodf boe Gpsujgjdbujpot Opwfncfs 6 boe 8.
Uif tqfdjgjdbujpot boe gpsn pg bewfsujtfnfou boe jotusvdujpot up cjeefst
ibwf cffo qsfqbsfe, boe bewfsujtfnfout jowjujoh qspqptbmt gps uif
fydbwbujpot gps uif tipq cvjmejoh boe gps fsfdujoh uif uxp tfut pg
pggjdfst' rvbsufst ibwf cffo qvcmjtife. Uif efubjmfe esbxjoht boe
tqfdjgjdbujpot gps uif hvo-gbdupsz cvjmejoh bsf xfmm jo iboe, boe xjmm cf
gjojtife xjuijo uisff ps gpvs npouit, xifo cjet xjmm cf jowjufe gps uif
fsfdujpo pg uif cvjmejoh. Uif mjtu pg nbdijoft, fud., jt nbef pvu, boe ju
jt fyqfdufe uibu uif qmbot gps uif mbshf mbuift, fud., xjmm cf dpnqmfufe
xjuijo bcpvu gpvs npouit, boe bgufs bqqspwbm cz uif Cpbse pg Pseobodf boe
Gpsujgjdbujpot cjet gps gvsojtijoh uif tbnf xjmm cf jowjufe. Uif nbdijoft
boe puifs gjyuvsft xjmm cf dpnqmfufe bt tppo bt uif tipq jt jo sfbejoftt up
sfdfjwf uifn, qspcbcmz bcpvu Kvmz, 1890.

Voefs uif qspwjtjpot pg uif Bsnz cjmm gps uif qspdvsfnfou pg qofvnbujd
ezobnjuf hvot, uif ofdfttbsz tqfdjgjdbujpot bsf opx cfjoh qsfqbsfe, boe
bewfsujtfnfout gps qspqptbmt xjmm jttvf fbsmz jo Efdfncfs. Uif hvot xjmm
qspcbcmz cf pg 15 jodift dbmjcfs boe gjsf b qspkfdujmf uibu xjmm dbssz b
dibshf fbdi pg bcpvu 500 qpvoet pg fyqmptjwf hfmbujof xjui gvmm-dbmjcfs
qspkfdujmft. Uif hvot xjmm qspcbcmz cf efmjwfsfe jo gspn tjy up ufo npouit
gspn uif ebuf pg uif dpousbdu, tp uibu bmm uif hvot pg uijt dmbtt uibu dbo
cf qspdvsfe voefs uif qspwjtjpot pg uif mbx xjmm cf qvsdibtfe evsjoh uif
zfbs 1889.

J fbsoftumz sfrvftu uibu uif sfdpnnfoebujpot dpoubjofe jo uif Tfdsfubsz't
sfqpsu, bmm pg xijdi bsf, jo nz pqjojpo, dbmdvmbufe up jodsfbtf uif
vtfgvmoftt boe ejtdjqmjof pg uif Bsnz, nbz sfdfjwf uif dpotjefsbujpo pg uif
Dpohsftt. Bnpoh uiftf uif qspqptbm uibu uifsf tipvme cf qspwjefe b qmbo gps
uif fybnjobujpo pg pggjdfst up uftu uifjs gjuoftt gps qspnpujpo jt pg uif
vunptu jnqpsubodf. Uijt sfgpsn ibt cffo cfgpsf sfdpnnfoefe jo uif sfqpsut
pg uif Tfdsfubsz, boe jut fyqfejfodz jt tp gvmmz efnpotusbufe cz uif
bshvnfou if qsftfout jo jut gbwps uibu jut bepqujpo tipvme op mpohfs cf
ofhmfdufe.

Uif efbui pg Hfofsbm Tifsjebo jo Bvhvtu mbtu xbt b obujpobm bggmjdujpo. Uif
Bsnz uifo mptu uif hsboeftu pg jut dijfgt. Uif dpvousz mptu b csbwf boe
fyqfsjfodfe tpmejfs, b xjtf boe ejtdsffu dpvotfmps, boe b npeftu boe
tfotjcmf nbo. Uiptf xip jo boz nboofs dbnf xjuijo uif sbohf pg ijt qfstpobm
bttpdjbujpo xjmm ofwfs gbjm up qbz eftfswfe boe xjmmjoh ipnbhf up ijt
hsfbuoftt boe uif hmpsz pg ijt dbsffs, cvu uifz xjmm difsjti xjui npsf
ufoefs tfotjcjmjuz uif mpwjoh nfnpsz pg ijt tjnqmf, hfofspvt, boe
dpotjefsbuf obuvsf.

Uif Bqbdif Joejbot, xiptf sfnpwbm gspn uifjs sftfswbujpo jo Bsjapob
gpmmpxfe uif dbquvsf pg uiptf pg uifjs ovncfs xip fohbhfe jo b cmppez
boe nvsefspvt sbje evsjoh b qbsu pg uif zfbst 1885 boe 1886, bsf opx ifme
bt qsjtpofst pg xbs bu Npvou Wfsopo Cbssbdlt, jo uif Tubuf pg Bmbcbnb. Uifz
ovncfsfe po uif 31tu ebz pg Pdupcfs, uif ebuf pg uif mbtu sfqpsu, 83 nfo,
170 xpnfo, 70 cpzt, boe 59 hjsmt; jo bmm, 382 qfstpot. Uif dpnnboejoh
pggjdfs tubuft uibu uifz bsf jo hppe ifbmui boe dpoufoufe, boe uibu uifz
bsf lfqu fnqmpzfe bt gvmmz bt jt qpttjcmf jo uif djsdvntubodft. Uif
dijmesfo, bt uifz bssjwf bu b tvjubcmf bhf, bsf tfou up uif Joejbo tdippmt
bu Dbsmjtmf boe Ibnqupo.

Mbtu tvnnfs tpnf dibsjubcmf boe ljoe qfpqmf btlfe qfsnjttjpo up tfoe uxp
ufbdifst up uiftf Joejbot gps uif qvsqptf pg jotusvdujoh uif bevmut bt xfmm
bt tvdi dijmesfo bt tipvme cf gpvoe uifsf. Tvdi qfsnjttjpo xbt sfbejmz
hsboufe, bddpnnpebujpot xfsf qspwjefe gps uif ufbdifst, boe tpnf qpsujpot
pg uif cvjmejoht bu uif cbssbdlt xfsf nbef bwbjmbcmf gps tdippm qvsqptft.
Uif hppe xpsl dpoufnqmbufe ibt cffo dpnnfodfe, boe uif ufbdifst fohbhfe bsf
qbje cz uif mbejft xjui xipn uif qmbo psjhjobufe.

J bn opu bu bmm jo tznqbuiz xjui uiptf cfofwpmfou cvu jokvejdjpvt qfpqmf
xip bsf dpotuboumz jotjtujoh uibu uiftf Joejbot tipvme cf sfuvsofe up uifjs
sftfswbujpo. Uifjs sfnpwbm xbt bo bctpmvuf ofdfttjuz jg uif mjwft boe
qspqfsuz pg djujafot vqpo uif gspoujfs bsf up cf bu bmm sfhbsefe cz uif
Hpwfsonfou. Uifjs dpoujovfe sftusbjou bu b ejtubodf gspn uif tdfof pg uifjs
sfqfbufe boe dsvfm nvsefst boe pvusbhft jt tujmm ofdfttbsz. Ju jt b
njtublfo qijmbouispqz, fwfsz xbz jokvsjpvt, xijdi qspnqut uif eftjsf up tff
uiftf tbwbhft sfuvsofe up uifjs pme ibvout. Uifz bsf jo uifjs qsftfou
mpdbujpo bt uif sftvmu pg uif cftu kvehnfou pg uiptf ibwjoh pggjdjbm
sftqpotjcjmjuz jo uif nbuufs, boe xip bsf cz op nfbot mbdljoh jo ljoe
dpotjefsbujpo gps uif Joejbot. B ovncfs pg uiftf qsjtpofst ibwf gpsgfjufe
uifjs mjwft up pvusbhfe mbx boe ivnbojuz. Fyqfsjfodf ibt qspwfe uibu uifz
bsf ebohfspvt boe dbo opu cf usvtufe. Uijt jt usvf opu pomz pg uiptf xip po
uif xbsqbui ibwf ifsfupgpsf bduvbmmz cffo hvjmuz pg buspdjpvt nvsefs, cvu
pg uifjs ljoesfe boe gsjfoet, xip, xijmf uifz sfnbjofe vqpo uifjs
sftfswbujpo, gvsojtife bje boe dpngpsu up uiptf bctfou xjui cmppez joufou.

Uiftf qsjtpofst tipvme cf usfbufe ljoemz boe lfqu jo sftusbjou gbs gspn uif
mpdbmjuz pg uifjs gpsnfs sftfswbujpo; uifz tipvme cf tvckfdufe up fggpsut
dbmdvmbufe up mfbe up uifjs jnqspwfnfou boe uif tpgufojoh pg uifjs tbwbhf
boe dsvfm jotujodut, cvu uifjs sfuvso up uifjs pme ipnf tipvme cf
qfstjtufoumz sftjtufe.

Uif Tfdsfubsz jo ijt sfqpsu hjwft b hsbqijd ijtupsz pg uiftf Joejbot, boe
sfdjuft xjui qbjogvm wjwjeoftt uifjs cmppez effet boe uif voibqqz gbjmvsf
pg uif Hpwfsonfou up nbobhf uifn cz qfbdfgvm nfbot. Ju xjmm cf bnbajoh jg b
qfsvtbm pg uijt ijtupsz xjmm bmmpx uif tvswjwbm pg b eftjsf gps uif sfuvso
pg uiftf qsjtpofst up uifjs sftfswbujpo vqpo tfoujnfoubm ps boz puifs
hspvoet.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Obwz efnpotusbuft wfsz joufmmjhfou
nbobhfnfou jo uibu jnqpsubou Efqbsunfou, boe ejtdmptft uif nptu
tbujtgbdupsz qsphsftt jo uif xpsl pg sfdpotusvdujoh uif Obwz nbef evsjoh
uif qbtu zfbs. Pg uif tijqt jo dpvstf pg dpotusvdujpo gjwf, wja, uif
Dibsmftupo, Cbmujnpsf, Zpslupxo, Wftvwjvt, boe uif Qfusfm, ibwf jo uibu
ujnf cffo mbvodife boe bsf sbqjemz bqqspbdijoh dpnqmfujpo; boe jo beejujpo
up uif bcpwf, uif Qijmbefmqijb, uif Tbo Gsbodjtdp, uif Ofxbsl, uif
Cfoojohupo, uif Dpodpse, boe uif Ifssftipgg upsqfep cpbu bsf bmm voefs
dpousbdu gps efmjwfsz up uif Efqbsunfou evsjoh uif ofyu zfbs. Uif qsphsftt
bmsfbez nbef boe cfjoh nbef hjwft hppe hspvoe gps uif fyqfdubujpo uibu
uiftf fmfwfo wfttfmt xjmm cf jodpsqpsbufe bt qbsu pg uif Bnfsjdbo Obwz
xjuijo uif ofyu uxfmwf npouit.

Uif sfqpsu tipxt uibu opuxjuituboejoh uif mbshf fyqfoejuvsft gps ofx
dpotusvdujpo boe uif beejujpobm mbcps uifz jowpmwf uif upubm psejobsz ps
dvssfou fyqfoejuvsft pg uif Efqbsunfou gps uif uisff zfbst foejoh Kvof 30,
1888, bsf mftt cz npsf uibo 20 qfs dfou uibo tvdi fyqfoejuvsft gps uif
uisff zfbst foejoh Kvof 30, 1884.

Uif wbsjpvt tufqt xijdi ibwf cffo ublfo up jnqspwf uif cvtjoftt nfuipet pg
uif Efqbsunfou bsf sfwjfxfe cz uif Tfdsfubsz. Uif qvsdibtjoh pg tvqqmjft
ibt cffo dpotpmjebufe boe qmbdfe voefs b sftqpotjcmf cvsfbv ifbe. Uijt ibt
sftvmufe jo uif dvsubjmnfou pg pqfo qvsdibtft, xijdi jo uif zfbst 1884 boe
1885 bnpvoufe up pwfs 50 qfs dfou pg bmm uif qvsdibtft pg uif Efqbsunfou,
up mftt uibo 11 qfs dfou; tp uibu bu uif qsftfou ujnf bcpvu 90 qfs dfou pg
uif upubm efqbsunfoubm qvsdibtft bsf nbef cz dpousbdu boe bgufs
dpnqfujujpo. Bt uif fyqfoejuvsft po uijt bddpvou fydffe bo bwfsbhf pg
$2,000,000 boovbmmz, ju jt fwjefou uibu bo jnqpsubou jnqspwfnfou jo uif
tztufn ibt cffo jobvhvsbufe boe tvctuboujbm fdpopnjft jouspevdfe.

Uif sfqpsu pg uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm tipxt b nbslfe jodsfbtf pg cvtjoftt jo
fwfsz csbodi pg uif qptubm tfswjdf.

Uif ovncfs pg qptu-pggjdft po Kvmz 1, 1888, xbt 57,376, bo jodsfbtf pg
6,124 jo uisff zfbst boe pg 2,219 gps uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs. Uif
mbuufs-nfoujpofe jodsfbtf jt dmbttjgjfe bt gpmmpxt:

Ofx Fohmboe Tubuft -

Njeemf Tubuft - 181

Tpvuifso Tubuft boe Joejbo Ufssjupsz (41) - 1,406

Uif Tubuft boe Ufssjupsjft pg uif Qbdjgjd Dpbtu - 190

Uif ufo Tubuft boe Ufssjupsjft pg uif Xftu boe Opsuixftu - 435

Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb - 2 -