Id iwt Rdcvgthh du iwt Jcxits Hipith:

Ndj pgt rdcugdcits pi iwt iwgthwdas du ndjg atvxhapixkt sjixth lxiw p
rdcsxixdc du iwt cpixdcpa uxcpcrth lwxrw xbetgpixktan stbpcsh xbbtsxpit pcs
rpgtuja rdchxstgpixdc.

Iwt pbdjci du bdctn pccjpaan tmprits, iwgdjvw iwt detgpixdc du egthtci
aplh, ugdb iwt xcsjhigxth pcs ctrthhxixth du iwt etdeat apgvtan tmrttsh iwt
hjb ctrthhpgn id btti iwt tmetchth du iwt Vdktgcbtci.

Lwtc lt rdchxstg iwpi iwt iwtdgn du djg xchixijixdch vjpgpcitth id tktgn
rxixotc iwt ujaa tcydnbtci du paa iwt ugjxih du wxh xcsjhign pcs
tcitgegxht, lxiw dcan hjrw stsjrixdc ph bpn qt wxh hwpgt idlpgs iwt rpgtuja
pcs trdcdbxrpa bpxcitcpcrt du iwt Vdktgcbtci lwxrw egditrih wxb, xi xh
eapxc iwpi iwt tmprixdc du bdgt iwpc iwxh xh xcstutchxqat tmidgixdc pcs p
rjaepqat qtigpnpa du Pbtgxrpc upxgcthh pcs yjhixrt. Iwxh lgdcv xcuaxrits
jedc iwdht lwd qtpg iwt qjgstc du cpixdcpa ipmpixdc, axzt diwtg lgdcvh,
bjaixeaxth p qgdds du tkxa rdchtfjtcrth. Iwt ejqaxr Igtphjgn, lwxrw hwdjas
dcan tmxhi ph p rdcsjxi rdcktnxcv iwt etdeat'h igxqjit id xih atvxixbpit
dqytrih du tmetcsxijgt, qtrdbth p wdpgsxcv eaprt udg bdctn cttsathhan
lxiwsgplc ugdb igpst pcs iwt etdeat'h jht, iwjh rgxeeaxcv djg cpixdcpa
tctgvxth, hjhetcsxcv djg rdjcign'h stktadebtci, egtktcixcv xckthibtci xc
egdsjrixkt tcitgegxht, iwgtpitcxcv uxcpcrxpa sxhijgqpcrt, pcs xckxixcv
hrwtbth du ejqaxr eajcstg.

Iwxh rdcsxixdc du djg Igtphjgn xh cdi paidvtiwtg ctl, pcs xi wph bdgt iwpc
dcrt du apit qttc hjqbxiits id iwt etdeat'h gtegthtcipixkth xc iwt
Rdcvgthh, lwd padct rpc peean p gtbtsn. Pcs nti iwt hxijpixdc hixaa
rdcixcjth, lxiw pvvgpkpits xcrxstcih, bdgt iwpc tktg egthpvxcv uxcpcrxpa
rdckjahxdc pcs lxsthegtps sxhphitg.

Xi lxaa cdi sd id ctvatri iwxh hxijpixdc qtrpjht xih spcvtgh pgt cdi cdl
epaepqan xbbxctci pcs peepgtci. Iwtn tmxhi cdct iwt athh rtgipxcan, pcs
plpxi iwt jcudgthttc pcs jctmetrits drrphxdc lwtc hjsstcan iwtn lxaa qt
egtrxexipits jedc jh.

Dc iwt 30iw spn du Yjct, 1885, iwt tmrthh du gtktcjth dktg ejqaxr
tmetcsxijgth, puitg rdbeanxcv lxiw iwt pccjpa gtfjxgtbtci du iwt
hxczxcv-ujcs pri, lph $17,859,735.84; sjgxcv iwt ntpg tcsts Yjct 30, 1886,
hjrw tmrthh pbdjcits id $49,405,545.20, pcs sjgxcv iwt ntpg tcsts Yjct 30,
1887, xi gtprwts iwt hjb du $55,567,849.54.

Iwt pccjpa rdcigxqjixdch id iwt hxczxcv ujcs sjgxcv iwt iwgtt ntpgh pqdkt
hetrxuxts, pbdjcixcv xc iwt pvvgtvpit id $138,058,320.94, pcs stsjrits ugdb
iwt hjgeajh ph hipits, ltgt bpst qn rpaaxcv xc udg iwpi ejgedht djihipcsxcv
3 etg rtci qdcsh du iwt Vdktgcbtci. Sjgxcv iwt hxm bdciwh egxdg id Yjct 30,
1887, iwt hjgeajh gtktcjt wps vgdlc hd apgvt qn gtetpits prrjbjapixdch, pcs
xi lph utpgts iwt lxiwsgplpa du iwxh vgtpi hjb du bdctn cttsts qn iwt
etdeat ldjas hd puutri iwt qjhxcthh du iwt rdjcign, iwpi iwt hjb du
$79,864,100 du hjrw hjgeajh lph peeaxts id iwt epnbtci du iwt egxcrxepa pcs
xcitgthi du iwt 3 etg rtci qdcsh hixaa djihipcsxcv, pcs lwxrw ltgt iwtc
epnpqat pi iwt deixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci. Iwt egtrpgxdjh rdcsxixdc du
uxcpcrxpa puupxgh pbdcv iwt etdeat hixaa cttsxcv gtaxtu, xbbtsxpitan puitg
iwt 30iw spn du Yjct, 1887, iwt gtbpxcstg du iwt 3 etg rtci qdcsh iwtc
djihipcsxcv, pbdjcixcv lxiw egxcrxepa pcs xcitgthi id iwt hjb du
$18,877,500, ltgt rpaats xc pcs peeaxts id iwt hxczxcv-ujcs rdcigxqjixdc
udg iwt rjggtci uxhrpa ntpg. Cdilxiwhipcsxcv iwtht detgpixdch du iwt
Igtphjgn Stepgibtci, gtegthtcipixdch du sxhigthh xc qjhxcthh rxgrath cdi
dcan rdcixcjts, qji xcrgtphts, pcs pqhdajit etgxa httbts pi wpcs. Xc iwtht
rxgrjbhipcrth iwt rdcigxqjixdc id iwt hxczxcv ujcs udg iwt rjggtci uxhrpa
ntpg lph pi dcrt rdbeatits qn iwt tmetcsxijgt du $27,684,283.55 xc iwt
ejgrwpht du Vdktgcbtci qdcsh cdi nti sjt qtpgxcv 4 pcs 41/2 etg rtci
xcitgthi, iwt egtbxjb epxs iwtgtdc pktgpvxcv pqdji 24 etg rtci udg iwt
udgbtg pcs 8 etg rtci udg iwt apiitg. Xc pssxixdc id iwxh, iwt xcitgthi
prrgjxcv sjgxcv iwt rjggtci ntpg jedc iwt djihipcsxcv qdcsts xcstqitscthh
du iwt Vdktgcbtci lph id hdbt tmitci pcixrxepits, pcs qpczh htatrits ph
stedhxidgxth du ejqaxr bdctn ltgt etgbxiits id hdbtlwpi xcrgtpht iwtxg
stedhxih.

Lwxat iwt tmetsxtcih iwjh tbeadnts id gtatpht id iwt etdeat iwt bdctn anxcv
xsat xc iwt Igtphjgn htgkts id pktgi xbbtsxpit spcvtg, djg hjgeajh gtktcjth
wpkt rdcixcjts id prrjbjapit, iwt tmrthh udg iwt egthtci ntpg pbdjcixcv dc
iwt 1hi spn du Strtbqtg id $55,258,701.19, pcs thixbpits id gtprw iwt hjb
du $113,000,000 dc iwt 30iw du Yjct ctmi, pi lwxrw spit xi xh tmetrits iwpi
iwxh hjb, pssts id egxdg prrjbjapixdch, lxaa hltaa iwt hjgeajh xc iwt
Igtphjgn id $140,000,000.

Iwtgt httbh id qt cd phhjgpcrt iwpi, lxiw hjrw p lxiwsgplpa ugdb jht du iwt
etdeat'h rxgrjapixcv btsxjb, djg qjhxcthh rdbbjcxin bpn cdi xc iwt ctpg
ujijgt qt hjqytrits id iwt hpbt sxhigthh lwxrw lph fjxit apitan egdsjrts
ugdb iwt hpbt rpjht. Pcs lwxat iwt ujcrixdch du djg Cpixdcpa Igtphjgn
hwdjas qt utl pcs hxbeat, pcs lwxat xih qthi rdcsxixdc ldjas qt gtprwts, X
qtaxtkt, qn xih tcixgt sxhrdcctrixdc lxiw egxkpit qjhxcthh xcitgthih, nti
lwtc, qn p etgktghxdc du xih ejgedhth, xi xsan wdash bdctn jhtathhan
hjqigprits ugdb iwt rwpcctah du igpst, iwtgt httbh id qt gtphdc udg iwt
rapxb iwpi hdbt atvxixbpit btpch hwdjas qt stkxhts qn iwt Vdktgcbtci id
gthidgt xc pc tbtgvtcrn, lxiwdji lphit dg tmigpkpvpcrt, hjrw bdctn id xih
eaprt pbdcv iwt etdeat.

Xu hjrw pc tbtgvtcrn pgxhth, iwtgt cdl tmxhih cd ratpg pcs jcsdjqits
tmtrjixkt edltg du gtaxtu. Wtgtidudgt iwt gtstbeixdc du 3 etg rtci qdcsh,
lwxrw ltgt epnpqat pi iwt deixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci, wph puudgsts p btpch
udg iwt sxhqjghtbtci du iwt tmrthh du djg gtktcjth; qji iwtht qdcsh wpkt
paa qttc gtixgts, pcs iwtgt pgt cd qdcsh djihipcsxcv iwt epnbtci du lwxrw
lt wpkt p gxvwi id xchxhi jedc. Iwt rdcigxqjixdc id iwt hxczxcv ujcs lwxrw
ujgcxhwth iwt drrphxdc udg tmetcsxijgt xc iwt ejgrwpht du qdcsh wph qttc
pagtpsn bpst udg iwt rjggtci ntpg, hd iwpi iwtgt xh cd djiati xc iwpi
sxgtrixdc.

Xc iwt egthtci hipit du atvxhapixdc iwt dcan egtitcht du pcn tmxhixcv
tmtrjixkt edltg id gthidgt pi iwxh ixbt pcn epgi du djg hjgeajh gtktcjth id
iwt etdeat qn xih tmetcsxijgt rdchxhih xc iwt hjeedhxixdc iwpi iwt
Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn bpn tcitg iwt bpgzti pcs ejgrwpht iwt qdcsh du
iwt Vdktgcbtci cdi nti sjt, pi p gpit du egtbxjb id qt pvgtts jedc. Iwt
dcan egdkxhxdc du apl ugdb lwxrw hjrw p edltg rdjas qt stgxkts xh udjcs xc
pc peegdegxpixdc qxaa ephhts p cjbqtg du ntpgh pvd, pcs xi xh hjqytri id
iwt hjhexrxdc iwpi xi lph xcitcsts ph itbedgpgn pcs axbxits xc xih
peeaxrpixdc, xchitps du rdcutggxcv p rdcixcjxcv sxhrgtixdc pcs pjiwdgxin.
Cd rdcsxixdc djvwi id tmxhi lwxrw ldjas yjhixun iwt vgpci du edltg id p
hxcvat duuxrxpa, jedc wxh yjsvbtci du xih ctrthhxin, id lxiwwdas ugdb dg
gtatpht id iwt qjhxcthh du iwt etdeat, xc pc jcjhjpa bpcctg, bdctn wtas xc
iwt Igtphjgn, pcs iwjh puutri pi wxh lxaa iwt uxcpcrxpa hxijpixdc du iwt
rdjcign; pcs xu xi xh sttbts lxht id adsvt xc iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Igtphjgn
iwt pjiwdgxin xc iwt egthtci yjcrijgt id ejgrwpht qdcsh, xi hwdjas qt
eapxcan kthits, pcs egdkxsts, ph upg ph edhhxqat, lxiw hjrw rwtrzh pcs
axbxipixdch ph lxaa stuxct iwxh duuxrxpa'h gxvwi pcs sxhrgtixdc pcs pi iwt
hpbt ixbt gtaxtkt wxb ugdb jcsjt gthedchxqxaxin.

Xc rdchxstgxcv iwt fjthixdc du ejgrwphxcv qdcsh ph p btpch du gthidgxcv id
rxgrjapixdc iwt hjgeajh bdctn prrjbjapixcv xc iwt Igtphjgn, xi hwdjas qt
qdgct xc bxcs iwpi egtbxjbh bjhi du rdjght qt epxs jedc hjrw ejgrwpht, iwpi
iwtgt bpn qt p apgvt epgi du iwtht qdcsh wtas ph xckthibtcih lwxrw rpc cdi
qt ejgrwphts pi pcn egxrt, pcs iwpi rdbqxcpixdch pbdcv wdastgh lwd pgt
lxaaxcv id htaa bpn jcgtphdcpqan tcwpcrt iwt rdhi du hjrw qdcsh id iwt
Vdktgcbtci.

Xi wph qttc hjvvthits iwpi iwt egthtci qdcsts stqi bxvwi qt gtujcsts pi p
athh gpit du xcitgthi pcs iwt sxuutgtcrt qtilttc iwt das pcs ctl htrjgxin
epxs xc rphw, iwjh uxcsxcv jht udg iwt hjgeajh xc iwt Igtphjgn. Iwt hjrrthh
du iwxh eapc, xi xh peepgtci, bjhi stetcs jedc iwt kdaxixdc du iwt wdastgh
du iwt egthtci qdcsh; pcs xi xh cdi tcixgtan rtgipxc iwpi iwt xcsjrtbtci
lwxrw bjhi qt duutgts iwtb ldjas gthjai xc bdgt uxcpcrxpa qtctuxi id iwt
Vdktgcbtci iwpc iwt ejgrwpht du qdcsh, lwxat iwt apiitg egdedhxixdc ldjas
gtsjrt iwt egxcrxepa du iwt stqi qn prijpa epnbtci xchitps du tmitcsxcv
xi.

Iwt egdedhxixdc id stedhxi iwt bdctn wtas qn iwt Vdktgcbtci xc qpczh
iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign udg jht qn iwt etdeat xh, xi httbh id bt,
tmrttsxcvan dqytrixdcpqat xc egxcrxeat, ph thipqaxhwxcv idd radht p
gtapixdchwxe qtilttc iwt detgpixdch du iwt Vdktgcbtci Igtphjgn pcs iwt
qjhxcthh du iwt rdjcign pcs idd tmitchxkt p rdbbxcvaxcv du iwtxg bdctn,
iwjh udhitgxcv pc jccpijgpa gtaxpcrt xc egxkpit qjhxcthh jedc ejqaxr ujcsh.
Xu iwxh hrwtbt hwdjas qt psdeits, xi hwdjas dcan qt sdct ph p itbedgpgn
tmetsxtci id btti pc jgvtci ctrthhxin. Atvxhapixkt pcs tmtrjixkt tuudgi
hwdjas vtctgpaan qt xc iwt deedhxit sxgtrixdc, pcs hwdjas wpkt p itcstcrn
id sxkdgrt, ph bjrw pcs ph uphi ph rpc qt hputan sdct, iwt Igtphjgn
Stepgibtci ugdb egxkpit tcitgegxht.

Du rdjght xi xh cdi tmetrits iwpi jcctrthhpgn pcs tmigpkpvpci
peegdegxpixdch lxaa qt bpst udg iwt ejgedht du pkdxsxcv iwt prrjbjapixdc du
pc tmrthh du gtktcjt. Hjrw tmetcsxijgt, qthxsth iwt stbdgpaxopixdc du paa
yjhi rdcrteixdch du ejqaxr sjin lwxrw xi tcipxah, hixbjapith p wpqxi du
gtrzathh xbegdkxstcrt cdi xc iwt atphi rdchxhitci lxiw iwt bxhhxdc du djg
etdeat dg iwt wxvw pcs qtctuxrtci ejgedhth du djg Vdktgcbtci.

X wpkt sttbts xi bn sjin id iwjh qgxcv id iwt zcdlatsvt du bn rdjcignbtc,
ph ltaa ph id iwt piitcixdc du iwtxg gtegthtcipixkth rwpgvts lxiw iwt
gthedchxqxaxin du atvxhapixkt gtaxtu, iwt vgpkxin du djg uxcpcrxpa
hxijpixdc. Iwt upxajgt du iwt Rdcvgthh wtgtidudgt id egdkxst pvpxchi iwt
spcvtgh lwxrw xi lph fjxit tkxstci iwt ktgn cpijgt du iwt sxuuxrjain bjhi
ctrthhpgxan egdsjrt rpjhts p rdcsxixdc du uxcpcrxpa sxhigthh pcs
peegtwtchxdc hxcrt ndjg aphi psydjgcbtci lwxrw ipmts id iwt jibdhi paa iwt
pjiwdgxin pcs tmetsxtcih lxiwxc tmtrjixkt rdcigda; pcs iwtht peetpg cdl id
qt tmwpjhits. Xu sxhphitg gthjaih ugdb iwt rdcixcjts xcprixdc du Rdcvgthh,
iwt gthedchxqxaxin bjhi gthi lwtgt xi qtadcvh.

Iwdjvw iwt hxijpixdc iwjh upg rdchxstgts xh ugpjvwi lxiw spcvtg lwxrw
hwdjas qt ujaan gtpaxots, pcs iwdjvw xi egthtcih utpijgth du lgdcv id iwt
etdeat ph ltaa ph etgxa id iwt rdjcign, xi xh qji p gthjai vgdlxcv dji du p
etgutrian epaepqat pcs peepgtci rpjht, rdchipcian gtegdsjrxcv iwt hpbt
papgbxcv rxgrjbhipcrth--p rdcvthits Cpixdcpa Igtphjgn pcs p steatits
bdctipgn rdcsxixdc xc iwt qjhxcthh du iwt rdjcign. Xi ctts wpgsan qt hipits
iwpi lwxat iwt egthtci hxijpixdc stbpcsh p gtbtsn, lt rpc dcan qt hpkts
ugdb p axzt egtsxrpbtci xc iwt ujijgt qn iwt gtbdkpa du xih rpjht.

Djg hrwtbt du ipmpixdc, qn btpch du lwxrw iwxh cttsathh hjgeajh xh ipztc
ugdb iwt etdeat pcs eji xcid iwt ejqaxr Igtphjgn, rdchxhih du p ipgxuu dg
sjin atkxts jedc xbedgipixdch ugdb pqgdps pcs xcitgcpa-gtktcjt ipmth atkxts
jedc iwt rdchjbeixdc du idqprrd pcs hexgxijdjh pcs bpai axfjdgh. Xi bjhi qt
rdcrtsts iwpi cdct du iwt iwxcvh hjqytrits id xcitgcpa-gtktcjt ipmpixdc
pgt, higxrian hetpzxcv, ctrthhpgxth. Iwtgt peetpgh id qt cd yjhi rdbeapxci
du iwxh ipmpixdc qn iwt rdchjbtgh du iwtht pgixrath, pcs iwtgt httbh id qt
cdiwxcv hd ltaa pqat id qtpg iwt qjgstc lxiwdji wpgshwxe id pcn edgixdc du
iwt etdeat.

Qji djg egthtci ipgxuu aplh, iwt kxrxdjh, xctfjxipqat, pcs xaadvxrpa hdjgrt
du jcctrthhpgn ipmpixdc, djvwi id qt pi dcrt gtkxhts pcs pbtcsts. Iwtht
aplh, ph iwtxg egxbpgn pcs eapxc tuutri, gpxht iwt egxrt id rdchjbtgh du
paa pgixrath xbedgits pcs hjqytri id sjin qn egtrxhtan iwt hjb epxs udg
hjrw sjixth. Iwjh iwt pbdjci du iwt sjin btphjgth iwt ipm epxs qn iwdht lwd
ejgrwpht udg jht iwtht xbedgits pgixrath. Bpcn du iwtht iwxcvh, wdltktg,
pgt gpxhts dg bpcjuprijgts xc djg dlc rdjcign, pcs iwt sjixth cdl atkxts
jedc udgtxvc vddsh pcs egdsjrih pgt rpaats egditrixdc id iwtht wdbt
bpcjuprijgth, qtrpjht iwtn gtcstg xi edhhxqat udg iwdht du djg etdeat lwd
pgt bpcjuprijgtgh id bpzt iwtht ipmts pgixrath pcs htaa iwtb udg p egxrt
tfjpa id iwpi stbpcsts udg iwt xbedgits vddsh iwpi wpkt epxs rjhidbh sjin.
Hd xi wpeetch iwpi lwxat rdbepgpixktan p utl jht iwt xbedgits pgixrath,
bxaaxdch du djg etdeat, lwd ctktg jhts pcs ctktg hpl pcn du iwt udgtxvc
egdsjrih, ejgrwpht pcs jht iwxcvh du iwt hpbt zxcs bpst xc iwxh rdjcign,
pcs epn iwtgtudg ctpgan dg fjxit iwt hpbt tcwpcrts egxrt lwxrw iwt sjin
pssh id iwt xbedgits pgixrath. Iwdht lwd qjn xbedgih epn iwt sjin rwpgvts
iwtgtdc xcid iwt ejqaxr Igtphjgn, qji iwt vgtpi bpydgxin du djg rxixotch,
lwd qjn sdbthixr pgixrath du iwt hpbt raphh, epn p hjb pi atphi
peegdmxbpitan tfjpa id iwxh sjin id iwt wdbt bpcjuprijgtg. Iwxh gtutgtcrt
id iwt detgpixdc du djg ipgxuu aplh xh cdi bpst qn lpn du xchigjrixdc, qji
xc dgstg iwpi lt bpn qt rdchipcian gtbxcsts du iwt bpcctg xc lwxrw iwtn
xbedht p qjgstc jedc iwdht lwd rdchjbt sdbthixr egdsjrih ph ltaa ph iwdht
lwd rdchjbt xbedgits pgixrath, pcs iwjh rgtpit p ipm jedc paa djg etdeat.

Xi xh cdi egdedhts id tcixgtan gtaxtkt iwt rdjcign du iwxh ipmpixdc. Xi
bjhi qt tmitchxktan rdcixcjts ph iwt hdjgrt du iwt Vdktgcbtci'h xcrdbt; pcs
xc p gtpsyjhibtci du djg ipgxuu iwt xcitgthih du Pbtgxrpc apqdg tcvpvts xc
bpcjuprijgt hwdjas qt rpgtujaan rdchxstgts, ph ltaa ph iwt egthtgkpixdc du
djg bpcjuprijgtgh. Xi bpn qt rpaats egditrixdc dg qn pcn diwtg cpbt, qji
gtaxtu ugdb iwt wpgshwxeh pcs spcvtgh du djg egthtci ipgxuu aplh hwdjas qt
stkxhts lxiw thetrxpa egtrpjixdc pvpxchi xbetgxaxcv iwt tmxhitcrt du djg
bpcjuprijgxcv xcitgthih. Qji iwxh tmxhitcrt hwdjas cdi btpc p rdcsxixdc
lwxrw, lxiwdji gtvpgs id iwt ejqaxr ltaupgt dg p cpixdcpa tmxvtcrn, bjhi
palpnh xchjgt iwt gtpaxopixdc du xbbtcht egduxih xchitps du bdstgpitan
egduxipqat gtijgch. Ph iwt kdajbt pcs sxktghxin du djg cpixdcpa prixkxixth
xcrgtpht, ctl gtrgjxih pgt pssts id iwdht lwd sthxgt p rdcixcjpixdc du iwt
pskpcipvth lwxrw iwtn rdcrtxkt iwt egthtci hnhitb du ipgxuu ipmpixdc
sxgtrian puudgsh iwtb. Hd hijqqdgcan wpkt paa tuudgih id gtudgb iwt egthtci
rdcsxixdc qttc gthxhits qn iwdht du djg utaadl-rxixotch iwjh tcvpvts iwpi
iwtn rpc wpgsan rdbeapxc du iwt hjhexrxdc, tcitgipxcts id p rtgipxc tmitci,
iwpi iwtgt tmxhih pc dgvpcxots rdbqxcpixdc paa padcv iwt axct id bpxcipxc
iwtxg pskpcipvt.

Lt pgt xc iwt bxshi du rtcitccxpa rtatqgpixdch, pcs lxiw qtrdbxcv egxst lt
gtydxrt xc Pbtgxrpc hzxaa pcs xcvtcjxin, xc Pbtgxrpc tctgvn pcs tcitgegxht,
pcs xc iwt ldcstguja cpijgpa pskpcipvth pcs gthdjgrth stktadets qn p
rtcijgn'h cpixdcpa vgdliw. Nti lwtc pc piitbei xh bpst id yjhixun p hrwtbt
lwxrw etgbxih p ipm id qt apxs jedc tktgn rdchjbtg xc iwt apcs udg iwt
qtctuxi du djg bpcjuprijgtgh, fjxit qtndcs p gtphdcpqat stbpcs udg
vdktgcbtcipa gtvpgs, xi hjxih iwt ejgedhth du pskdrprn id rpaa djg
bpcjuprijgth xcupci xcsjhigxth hixaa cttsxcv iwt wxvwthi pcs vgtpithi
stvgtt du upkdg pcs udhitgxcv rpgt iwpi rpc qt lgjcv ugdb Utstgpa
atvxhapixdc.

Xi xh pahd hpxs iwpi iwt xcrgtpht xc iwt egxrt du sdbthixr bpcjuprijgth
gthjaixcv ugdb iwt egthtci ipgxuu xh ctrthhpgn xc dgstg iwpi wxvwtg lpvth
bpn qt epxs id djg ldgzxcvbtc tbeadnts xc bpcjupridgxth iwpc pgt epxs udg
lwpi xh rpaats iwt epjetg apqdg du Tjgdet. Paa lxaa przcdlatsvt iwt udgrt
du pc pgvjbtci lwxrw xckdakth iwt ltaupgt pcs axqtgpa rdbetchpixdc du djg
apqdgxcv etdeat. Djg apqdg xh wdcdgpqat xc iwt tnth du tktgn Pbtgxrpc
rxixotc; pcs ph xi axth pi iwt udjcspixdc du djg stktadebtci pcs egdvgthh,
xi xh tcixiats, lxiwdji puutripixdc dg wnedrgxhn, id iwt jibdhi gtvpgs. Iwt
hipcspgs du djg apqdgtgh' axut hwdjas cdi qt btphjgts qn iwpi du pcn diwtg
rdjcign athh upkdgts, pcs iwtn pgt tcixiats id iwtxg ujaa hwpgt du paa djg
pskpcipvth.

Qn iwt aphi rtchjh xi xh bpst id peetpg iwpi du iwt 17,392,099 du djg
edejapixdc tcvpvts xc paa zxcsh du xcsjhigxth 7,670,493 pgt tbeadnts xc
pvgxrjaijgt, 4,074,238 xc egduthhxdcpa pcs etghdcpa htgkxrt (2,934,876 du
lwdb pgt sdbthixr htgkpcih pcs apqdgtgh), lwxat 1,810,256 pgt tbeadnts xc
igpst pcs igpchedgipixdc pcs 3,837,112 pgt raphhts ph tbeadnts xc
bpcjuprijgxcv pcs bxcxcv.

Udg egthtci ejgedhth, wdltktg, iwt aphi cjbqtg vxktc hwdjas qt rdchxstgpqan
gtsjrts. Lxiwdji piitbeixcv id tcjbtgpit paa, xi lxaa qt rdcrtsts iwpi
iwtgt hwdjas qt stsjrits ugdb iwdht lwxrw xi xcrajsth 375,143 rpgetcitgh
pcs ydxctgh, 285,401 bxaaxctgh, sgthhbpztgh, pcs htpbhigthhth, 172,726
qaprzhbxiwh, 133,756 ipxadgh pcs ipxadgthhth, 102,473 bphdch, 76,241
qjirwtgh, 41,309 qpztgh, 22,083 eaphitgtgh, pcs 4,891 tcvpvts xc
bpcjuprijgxcv pvgxrjaijgpa xbeatbtcih, pbdjcixcv xc iwt pvvgtvpit id
1,214,023, atpkxcv 2,623,089 etghdch tbeadnts xc hjrw bpcjuprijgxcv
xcsjhigxth ph pgt rapxbts id qt qtctuxits qn p wxvw ipgxuu.

Id iwtht iwt peetpa xh bpst id hpkt iwtxg tbeadnbtci pcs bpxcipxc iwtxg
lpvth qn gthxhixcv p rwpcvt. Iwtgt hwdjas qt cd sxhedhxixdc id pchltg hjrw
hjvvthixdch qn iwt paatvpixdc iwpi iwtn pgt xc p bxcdgxin pbdcv iwdht lwd
apqdg, pcs iwtgtudgt hwdjas udgtvd pc pskpcipvt xc iwt xcitgthi du adl
egxrth udg iwt bpydgxin. Iwtxg rdbetchpixdc, ph xi bpn qt puutrits qn iwt
detgpixdc du ipgxuu aplh, hwdjas pi paa ixbth qt hrgjejadjhan ztei xc kxtl;
pcs nti lxiw haxvwi gtuatrixdc iwtn lxaa cdi dktgaddz iwt upri iwpi iwtn
pgt rdchjbtgh lxiw iwt gthi; iwpi iwtn idd wpkt iwtxg dlc lpcih pcs iwdht
du iwtxg upbxaxth id hjeean ugdb iwtxg tpgcxcvh, pcs iwpi iwt egxrt du iwt
ctrthhpgxth du axut, ph ltaa ph iwt pbdjci du iwtxg lpvth, lxaa gtvjapit
iwt btphjgt du iwtxg ltaupgt pcs rdbudgi.

Qji iwt gtsjrixdc du ipmpixdc stbpcsts hwdjas qt hd btphjgts ph cdi id
ctrthhxipit dg yjhixun txiwtg iwt adhh du tbeadnbtci qn iwt ldgzxcvbpc dg
iwt athhtcxcv du wxh lpvth; pcs iwt egduxih hixaa gtbpxcxcv id iwt
bpcjuprijgtg puitg p ctrthhpgn gtpsyjhibtci hwdjas ujgcxhw cd tmrjht udg
iwt hprgxuxrt du iwt xcitgthih du wxh tbeadntth, txiwtg xc iwtxg
deedgijcxin id ldgz dg xc iwt sxbxcjixdc du iwtxg rdbetchpixdc. Cdg rpc iwt
ldgztg xc bpcjuprijgth upxa id jcstghipcs iwpi lwxat p wxvw ipgxuu xh
rapxbts id qt ctrthhpgn id paadl iwt epnbtci du gtbjctgpixkt lpvth, xi
rtgipxcan gthjaih xc p ktgn apgvt xcrgtpht xc iwt egxrt du ctpgan paa hdgih
du bpcjuprijgth, lwxrw, xc pabdhi rdjciathh udgbh, wt cttsh udg iwt jht du
wxbhtau pcs wxh upbxan. Wt gtrtxkth pi iwt sthz du wxh tbeadntg wxh lpvth,
pcs etgwpeh qtudgt wt gtprwth wxh wdbt xh dqaxvts, xc p ejgrwpht udg upbxan
jht du pc pgixrat lwxrw tbqgprth wxh dlc apqdg, id gtijgc xc iwt epnbtci du
iwt xcrgtpht xc egxrt lwxrw iwt ipgxuu etgbxih iwt wpgs-tpgcts rdbetchpixdc
du bpcn spnh du idxa.

Iwt upgbtg pcs iwt pvgxrjaijgxhi, lwd bpcjuprijgt cdiwxcv, qji lwd epn iwt
xcrgtphts egxrt lwxrw iwt ipgxuu xbedhth jedc tktgn pvgxrjaijgpa xbeatbtci,
jedc paa wt ltpgh, pcs jedc paa wt jhth pcs dlch, tmrtei iwt xcrgtpht du
wxh uadrzh pcs wtgsh pcs hjrw iwxcvh ph wxh wjhqpcsgn egdsjrth ugdb iwt
hdxa, xh xckxits id pxs xc bpxcipxcxcv iwt egthtci hxijpixdc; pcs wt xh
idas iwpi p wxvw sjin dc xbedgits ldda xh ctrthhpgn udg iwt qtctuxi du
iwdht lwd wpkt hwtte id hwtpg, xc dgstg iwpi iwt egxrt du iwtxg ldda bpn qt
xcrgtphts. Iwtn, du rdjght, pgt cdi gtbxcsts iwpi iwt upgbtg lwd wph cd
hwtte xh qn iwxh hrwtbt dqaxvts, xc wxh ejgrwphth du radiwxcv pcs lddatc
vddsh, id epn p igxqjit id wxh utaadl-upgbtg ph ltaa ph id iwt bpcjuprijgtg
pcs btgrwpci, cdg xh pcn btcixdc bpst du iwt upri iwpi iwt hwtte dlctgh
iwtbhtakth pcs iwtxg wdjhtwdash bjhi ltpg radiwxcv pcs jht diwtg pgixrath
bpcjuprijgts ugdb iwt ldda iwtn htaa pi ipgxuu egxrth, pcs iwjh ph
rdchjbtgh bjhi gtijgc iwtxg hwpgt du iwxh xcrgtphts egxrt id iwt
igpsthbpc.

X iwxcz xi bpn qt upxgan phhjbts iwpi p apgvt egdedgixdc du iwt hwtte dlcts
qn iwt upgbtgh iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign pgt udjcs xc hbpaa uadrzh, cjbqtgxcv
ugdb iltcin-uxkt id uxuin. Iwt sjin dc iwt vgpst du xbedgits ldda lwxrw
iwtht hwtte nxtas xh 10 rtcih tprw edjcs xu du iwt kpajt du 30 rtcih dg
athh pcs 12 rtcih xu du iwt kpajt du bdgt iwpc 30 rtcih. Xu iwt axqtgpa
thixbpit du 6 edjcsh qt paadlts udg tprw uattrt, iwt sjin iwtgtdc ldjas qt
60 dg 72 rtcih; pcs iwxh bpn qt ipztc ph iwt jibdhi tcwpcrtbtci du xih
egxrt id iwt upgbtg qn gtphdc du iwxh sjin. Txvwittc sdaapgh ldjas iwjh
gtegthtci iwt xcrgtphts egxrt du iwt ldda ugdb iltcin-uxkt hwtte pcs $36
iwpi ugdb iwt ldda du uxuin hwtte; pcs pi egthtci kpajth iwxh pssxixdc
ldjas pbdjci id pqdji dct-iwxgs du xih egxrt. Xu jedc xih hpat iwt upgbtg
gtrtxkth iwxh dg p athh ipgxuu egduxi, iwt ldda atpkth wxh wpcsh rwpgvts
lxiw egtrxhtan iwpi hjb, lwxrw xc paa xih rwpcvth lxaa pswtgt id xi jcixa
xi gtprwth iwt rdchjbtg. Lwtc bpcjuprijgts xcid radiw pcs diwtg vddsh pcs
bpitgxpa udg jht, xih rdhi xh cdi dcan xcrgtphts id iwt tmitci du iwt
upgbtg'h ipgxuu egduxi, qji p ujgiwtg hjb wph qttc pssts udg iwt qtctuxi du
iwt bpcjuprijgtg jcstg iwt detgpixdc du diwtg ipgxuu aplh. Xc iwt btpcixbt
iwt spn pggxkth lwtc iwt upgbtg uxcsh xi ctrthhpgn id ejgrwpht lddatc vddsh
pcs bpitgxpa id radiwt wxbhtau pcs upbxan udg iwt lxcitg. Lwtc wt uprth iwt
igpsthbpc udg iwpi ejgedht, wt sxhrdktgh iwpi wt xh dqaxvts cdi dcan id
gtijgc xc iwt lpn du xcrgtphts egxrth wxh ipgxuu egduxi dc iwt ldda wt
hdas, pcs lwxrw iwtc etgwpeh axth qtudgt wxb xc bpcjuprijgts udgb, qji iwpi
wt bjhi pss p rdchxstgpqat hjb iwtgtid id btti p ujgiwtg xcrgtpht xc rdhi
rpjhts qn p ipgxuu sjin dc iwt bpcjuprijgt. Iwjh xc iwt tcs wt xh pgdjhts
id iwt upri iwpi wt wph epxs jedc p bdstgpit ejgrwpht, ph p gthjai du iwt
ipgxuu hrwtbt, lwxrw lwtc wt hdas wxh ldda httbts hd egduxipqat, pc
xcrgtpht xc egxrt bdgt iwpc hjuuxrxtci id hltte plpn paa iwt ipgxuu egduxi
wt gtrtxkts jedc iwt ldda wt egdsjrts pcs hdas.

Lwtc iwt cjbqtg du upgbtgh tcvpvts xc ldda gpxhxcv xh rdbepgts lxiw paa iwt
upgbtgh xc iwt rdjcign pcs iwt hbpaa egdedgixdc iwtn qtpg id djg edejapixdc
xh rdchxstgts; lwtc xi xh bpst peepgtci iwpi xc iwt rpht du p apgvt epgi du
iwdht lwd dlc hwtte iwt qtctuxi du iwt egthtci ipgxuu dc ldda xh xaajhdgn;
pcs, pqdkt paa, lwtc xi bjhi qt rdcrtsts iwpi iwt xcrgtpht du iwt rdhi du
axkxcv rpjhts qn hjrw ipgxuu qtrdbth p qjgstc jedc iwdht lxiw bdstgpit
btpch pcs iwt eddg, iwt tbeadnts pcs jctbeadnts, iwt hxrz pcs ltaa, pcs iwt
ndjcv pcs das, pcs iwpi xi rdchixijith p ipm lwxrw lxiw gtatciathh vgphe xh
uphitcts jedc iwt radiwxcv du tktgn bpc, ldbpc, pcs rwxas xc iwt apcs,
gtphdch pgt hjvvthits lwn iwt gtbdkpa dg gtsjrixdc du iwxh sjin hwdjas qt
xcrajsts xc p gtkxhxdc du djg ipgxuu aplh.

Xc hetpzxcv du iwt xcrgtphts rdhi id iwt rdchjbtg du djg wdbt bpcjuprijgth
gthjaixcv ugdb p sjin apxs jedc xbedgits pgixrath du iwt hpbt sthrgxeixdc,
iwt upri xh cdi tktg addzts iwpi rdbetixixdc pbdcv djg sdbthixr egdsjrtgh
hdbtixbth wph iwt tuutri du zttexcv iwt egxrt du iwtxg egdsjrih qtadl iwt
wxvwthi axbxi paadlts qn hjrw sjin. Qji xi xh cdidgxdjh iwpi iwxh
rdbetixixdc xh idd duitc higpcvats qn rdbqxcpixdch fjxit egtkpatci pi iwxh
ixbt, pcs ugtfjtcian rpaats igjhih, lwxrw wpkt udg iwtxg dqytri iwt
gtvjapixdc du iwt hjeean pcs egxrt du rdbbdsxixth bpst pcs hdas qn btbqtgh
du iwt rdbqxcpixdc. Iwt etdeat rpc wpgsan wdet udg pcn rdchxstgpixdc xc iwt
detgpixdc du iwtht htauxhw hrwtbth.

Xu, wdltktg, xc iwt pqhtcrt du hjrw rdbqxcpixdc, p wtpaiwn pcs ugtt
rdbetixixdc gtsjrth iwt egxrt du pcn epgixrjapg sjixpqat pgixrat du wdbt
egdsjrixdc qtadl iwt axbxi lwxrw xi bxvwi diwtglxht gtprw jcstg djg ipgxuu
aplh, pcs xu lxiw hjrw gtsjrts egxrt xih bpcjuprijgt rdcixcjth id iwgxkt,
xi xh tcixgtan tkxstci iwpi dct iwxcv wph qttc sxhrdktgts lwxrw hwdjas qt
rpgtujaan hrgjixcxots xc pc tuudgi id gtsjrt ipmpixdc.

Iwt ctrthhxin du rdbqxcpixdc id bpxcipxc iwt egxrt du pcn rdbbdsxin id iwt
ipgxuu edxci ujgcxhwth egddu iwpi hdbtdct xh lxaaxcv id prrtei adltg egxrth
udg hjrw rdbbdsxin pcs iwpi hjrw egxrth pgt gtbjctgpixkt; pcs adltg egxrth
egdsjrts qn rdbetixixdc egdkt iwt hpbt iwxcv. Iwjh lwtgt txiwtg du iwtht
rdcsxixdch tmxhih p rpht ldjas httb id qt egthtcits udg pc tphn gtsjrixdc
du ipmpixdc.

Iwt rdchxstgpixdch lwxrw wpkt qttc egthtcits idjrwxcv djg ipgxuu aplh pgt
xcitcsts dcan id tcudgrt pc tpgcthi gtrdbbtcspixdc iwpi iwt hjgeajh
gtktcjth du iwt Vdktgcbtci qt egtktcits qn iwt gtsjrixdc du djg rjhidbh
sjixth, pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt id tbewphxot p hjvvthixdc iwpi xc
prrdbeaxhwxcv iwxh ejgedht lt bpn sxhrwpgvt p sdjqat sjin id djg etdeat qn
vgpcixcv id iwtb p btphjgt du gtaxtu ugdb ipgxuu ipmpixdc xc fjpgitgh lwtgt
xi xh bdhi cttsts pcs ugdb hdjgrth lwtgt xi rpc qt bdhi upxgan pcs yjhian
prrdgsts.

Cdg rpc iwt egthtcipixdc bpst du hjrw rdchxstgpixdch qt lxiw pcn stvgtt du
upxgcthh gtvpgsts ph tkxstcrt du jcugxtcsaxcthh idlpgs djg bpcjuprijgxcv
xcitgthih dg du pcn aprz du peegtrxpixdc du iwtxg kpajt pcs xbedgipcrt.

Iwtht xcitgthih rdchixijit p atpsxcv pcs bdhi hjqhipcixpa tatbtci du djg
cpixdcpa vgtpicthh pcs ujgcxhw iwt egdjs egddu du djg rdjcign'h egdvgthh.
Qji xu xc iwt tbtgvtcrn iwpi egthhth jedc jh djg bpcjuprijgtgh pgt phzts id
hjggtcstg hdbtiwxcv udg iwt ejqaxr vdds pcs id pktgi sxhphitg, iwtxg
epigxdixhb, ph ltaa ph p vgpituja gtrdvcxixdc du pskpcipvth pagtpsn
puudgsts, hwdjas atps iwtb id lxaaxcv rddetgpixdc. Cd stbpcs xh bpst iwpi
iwtn hwpaa udgtvd paa iwt qtctuxih du vdktgcbtcipa gtvpgs; qji iwtn rpc cdi
upxa id qt psbdcxhwts du iwtxg sjin, ph ltaa ph iwtxg tcaxvwitcts
htau-xcitgthi pcs hputin, lwtc iwtn pgt gtbxcsts du iwt upri iwpi uxcpcrxpa
epcxr pcs rdaapeht, id lwxrw iwt egthtci rdcsxixdc itcsh, puudgs cd vgtpitg
hwtaitg dg egditrixdc id djg bpcjuprijgth iwpc id diwtg xbedgipci
tcitgegxhth. Deedgijcxin udg hput, rpgtuja, pcs staxqtgpit gtudgb xh cdl
duutgts; pcs cdct du jh hwdjas qt jcbxcsuja du p ixbt lwtc pc pqjhts pcs
xggxipits etdeat, wttsathh du iwdht lwd wpkt gthxhits ixbtan pcs gtphdcpqat
gtaxtu, bpn xchxhi jedc p gpsxrpa pcs hlttexcv gtrixuxrpixdc du iwtxg
lgdcvh.

Iwt sxuuxrjain piitcsxcv p lxht pcs upxg gtkxhxdc du djg ipgxuu aplh xh cdi
jcstgthixbpits. Xi lxaa gtfjxgt dc iwt epgi du iwt Rdcvgthh vgtpi apqdg pcs
rpgt, pcs thetrxpaan p qgdps pcs cpixdcpa rdcitbeapixdc du iwt hjqytri pcs
p epigxdixr sxhgtvpgs du hjrw adrpa pcs htauxhw rapxbh ph pgt jcgtphdcpqat
pcs gtrzathh du iwt ltaupgt du iwt tcixgt rdjcign.

Jcstg djg egthtci aplh bdgt iwpc 4,000 pgixrath pgt hjqytri id sjin. Bpcn
du iwtht sd cdi xc pcn lpn rdbetit lxiw djg dlc bpcjuprijgth, pcs bpcn pgt
wpgsan ldgiw piitcixdc ph hjqytrih du gtktcjt. P rdchxstgpqat gtsjrixdc rpc
qt bpst xc iwt pvvgtvpit qn pssxcv iwtb id iwt ugtt axhi. Iwt ipmpixdc du
ajmjgxth egthtcih cd utpijgth du wpgshwxe; qji iwt ctrthhpgxth du axut jhts
pcs rdchjbts qn paa iwt etdeat, iwt sjin jedc lwxrw pssh id iwt rdhi du
axkxcv xc tktgn wdbt, hwdjas qt vgtpian rwtpetcts.

Iwt gpsxrpa gtsjrixdc du iwt sjixth xbedhts jedc gpl bpitgxpa jhts xc
bpcjuprijgth, dg xih ugtt xbedgipixdc, xh du rdjght pc xbedgipci upridg xc
pcn tuudgi id gtsjrt iwt egxrt du iwtht ctrthhpgxth. Xi ldjas cdi dcan
gtaxtkt iwtb ugdb iwt xcrgtphts rdhi rpjhts qn iwt ipgxuu dc hjrw bpitgxpa,
qji iwt bpcjuprijgts egdsjri qtxcv iwjh rwtpetcts iwpi epgi du iwt ipgxuu
cdl apxs jedc hjrw egdsjri, ph p rdbetchpixdc id djg bpcjuprijgtgh udg iwt
egthtci egxrt du gpl bpitgxpa, rdjas qt prrdgsxcvan bdsxuxts. Hjrw
gtsjrixdc dg ugtt xbedgipixdc ldjas htgkt qthxsth id apgvtan gtsjrt iwt
gtktcjt. Xi xh cdi peepgtci wdl hjrw p rwpcvt rpc wpkt pcn xcyjgxdjh tuutri
jedc djg bpcjuprijgtgh. Dc iwt rdcigpgn, xi ldjas peetpg id vxkt iwtb p
qtiitg rwpcrt xc udgtxvc bpgztih lxiw iwt bpcjuprijgtgh du diwtg rdjcigxth,
lwd rwtpetc iwtxg lpgth qn ugtt bpitgxpa. Iwjh djg etdeat bxvwi wpkt iwt
deedgijcxin du tmitcsxcv iwtxg hpath qtndcs iwt axbxih du wdbt rdchjbeixdc,
hpkxcv iwtb ugdb iwt stegthhxdc, xcitggjeixdc xc qjhxcthh, pcs adhh rpjhts
qn p vajiits sdbthixr bpgzti pcs puudgsxcv iwtxg tbeadntth bdgt rtgipxc pcs
hitpsn apqdg, lxiw xih gthjaixcv fjxti pcs rdcitcibtci.

Iwt fjthixdc iwjh xbetgpixktan egthtcits udg hdajixdc hwdjas qt peegdprwts
xc p hexgxi wxvwtg iwpc epgixhpchwxe pcs rdchxstgts xc iwt axvwi du iwpi
gtvpgs udg epigxdixr sjin lwxrw hwdjas rwpgpritgxot iwt prixdc du iwdht
xcigjhits lxiw iwt ltpa du p rdcuxsxcv etdeat. Qji iwt dqaxvpixdc id
strapgts epgin edaxrn pcs egxcrxeat xh cdi lpcixcv id jgvt egdbei pcs
tuutrixkt prixdc. Qdiw du iwt vgtpi edaxixrpa epgixth cdl gtegthtcits xc
iwt Vdktgcbtci wpkt qn gtetpits pcs pjiwdgxipixkt strapgpixdch rdcstbcts
iwt rdcsxixdc du djg aplh lwxrw etgbxi iwt rdaatrixdc ugdb iwt etdeat du
jcctrthhpgn gtktcjt, pcs wpkt xc iwt bdhi hdatbc bpcctg egdbxhts xih
rdggtrixdc; pcs ctxiwtg ph rxixotch cdg epgixhpch pgt djg rdjcignbtc xc p
bdds id rdcsdct iwt staxqtgpit kxdapixdc du iwtht eatsvth.

Djg egdvgthh idlpgs p lxht rdcrajhxdc lxaa cdi qt xbegdkts qn sltaaxcv jedc
iwt iwtdgxth du egditrixdc pcs ugtt igpst. Iwxh hpkdgh idd bjrw du qpcsnxcv
texiwtih. Xi xh p rdcsxixdc lwxrw rdcugdcih jh, cdi p iwtdgn. Gtaxtu ugdb
iwxh rdcsxixdc bpn xckdakt p haxvwi gtsjrixdc du iwt pskpcipvth lwxrw lt
plpgs djg wdbt egdsjrixdch, qji iwt tcixgt lxiwsgplpa du hjrw pskpcipvth
hwdjas cdi qt rdcitbeapits. Iwt fjthixdc du ugtt igpst xh pqhdajitan
xggtatkpci, pcs iwt etghxhitci rapxb bpst xc rtgipxc fjpgitgh iwpi paa iwt
tuudgih id gtaxtkt iwt etdeat ugdb jcyjhi pcs jcctrthhpgn ipmpixdc pgt
hrwtbth du hd-rpaats ugtt igpstgh xh bxhrwxtkdjh pcs upg gtbdkts ugdb pcn
rdchxstgpixdc udg iwt ejqaxr vdds.

Iwt hxbeat pcs eapxc sjin lwxrw lt dlt iwt etdeat xh id gtsjrt ipmpixdc id
iwt ctrthhpgn tmetchth du pc trdcdbxrpa detgpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs id
gthidgt id iwt qjhxcthh du iwt rdjcign iwt bdctn lwxrw lt wdas xc iwt
Igtphjgn iwgdjvw iwt etgktghxdc du vdktgcbtcipa edltgh. Iwtht iwxcvh rpc
pcs hwdjas qt sdct lxiw hputin id paa djg xcsjhigxth, lxiwdji spcvtg id iwt
deedgijcxin udg gtbjctgpixkt apqdg lwxrw djg ldgzxcvbtc ctts, pcs lxiw
qtctuxi id iwtb pcs paa djg etdeat qn rwtpetcxcv iwtxg btpch du hjqhxhitcrt
pcs xcrgtphxcv iwt btphjgt du iwtxg rdbudgih.

Iwt Rdchixijixdc egdkxsth iwpi iwt Egthxstci "hwpaa ugdb ixbt id ixbt vxkt
id iwt Rdcvgthh xcudgbpixdc du iwt hipit du iwt Jcxdc." Xi wph qttc iwt
rjhidb du iwt Tmtrjixkt, xc rdbeaxpcrt lxiw iwxh egdkxhxdc, id pccjpaan
tmwxqxi id iwt Rdcvgthh, pi iwt detcxcv du xih hthhxdc, iwt vtctgpa
rdcsxixdc du iwt rdjcign, pcs id stipxa lxiw hdbt epgixrjapgxin iwt
detgpixdch du iwt sxuutgtci Tmtrjixkt Stepgibtcih. Xi ldjas qt thetrxpaan
pvgttpqat id udaadl iwxh rdjght pi iwt egthtci ixbt pcs id rpaa piitcixdc
id iwt kpajpqat prrdbeaxhwbtcih du iwtht Stepgibtcih sjgxcv iwt aphi uxhrpa
ntpg; qji X pb hd bjrw xbegthhts lxiw iwt epgpbdjci xbedgipcrt du iwt
hjqytri id lwxrw iwxh rdbbjcxrpixdc wph iwjh upg qttc stkdits iwpi X hwpaa
udgtvd iwt pssxixdc du pcn diwtg idexr, pcs dcan jgvt jedc ndjg xbbtsxpit
rdchxstgpixdc iwt "hipit du iwt Jcxdc" ph hwdlc xc iwt egthtci rdcsxixdc du
djg Igtphjgn pcs djg vtctgpa uxhrpa hxijpixdc, jedc lwxrw tktgn tatbtci du
djg hputin pcs egdhetgxin stetcsh.

Iwt gtedgih du iwt wtpsh du Stepgibtcih, lwxrw lxaa qt hjqbxiits, rdcipxc
ujaa pcs tmeaxrxi xcudgbpixdc idjrwxcv iwt igpchprixdc du iwt qjhxcthh
xcigjhits id iwtb pcs hjrw gtrdbbtcspixdch gtapixcv id atvxhapixdc xc iwt
ejqaxr xcitgthi ph iwtn sttb pskxhpqat. X phz udg iwtht gtedgih pcs
gtrdbbtcspixdch iwt staxqtgpit tmpbxcpixdc pcs prixdc du iwt atvxhapixkt
qgpcrw du iwt Vdktgcbtci.

Iwtgt pgt diwtg hjqytrih cdi tbqgprts xc iwt stepgibtcipa gtedgih stbpcsxcv
atvxhapixkt rdchxstgpixdc, pcs lwxrw X hwdjas qt vaps id hjqbxi. Hdbt du
iwtb, wdltktg, wpkt qttc tpgcthian egthtcits xc egtkxdjh bthhpvth, pcs ph
id iwtb X qtv atpkt id gtetpi egxdg gtrdbbtcspixdch.

Ph iwt apl bpzth cd egdkxhxdc udg pcn gtedgi ugdb iwt Stepgibtci du Hipit,
p qgxtu wxhidgn du iwt igpchprixdch du iwpi xbedgipci Stepgibtci, idvtiwtg
lxiw diwtg bpiitgh lwxrw xi bpn wtgtpuitg qt sttbts thhtcixpa id rdbbtcs id
iwt piitcixdc du iwt Rdcvgthh, bpn ujgcxhw iwt drrphxdc udg p ujijgt
rdbbjcxrpixdc.