Rw. Xujfpjw, Rw. Anhj Uwjxnijsy, rjrgjwx tk ymj 104ym Htslwjxx,
inxynslznxmji lzjxyx, rd kjqqtb Frjwnhfsx fqq fhwtxx tzw qfsi:

Qjy rj gjlns ytsnlmy gd xfdnsl yt tzw rjs fsi btrjs ns zsnktwr fwtzsi ymj
btwqi, fsi jxujhnfqqd ymtxj mjqunsl ujfhj yfpj wtty ns Gtxsnf fsi yt ymjnw
kfrnqnjx, N ymfsp dtz. Frjwnhf nx ajwd, ajwd uwtzi tk dtz.

Rd izyd ytsnlmy nx yt wjutwy ts ymj xyfyj tk ymj Zsnts--sty ymj xyfyj tk
tzw ltajwsrjsy, gzy tk tzw Frjwnhfs htrrzsnyd; fsi yt xjy ktwym tzw
wjxutsxngnqnynjx, ns ymj btwix tk tzw Ktzsijwx, yt ktwr f rtwj ujwkjhy
zsnts.

Ymj xyfyj tk ymj Zsnts nx xywtsl. Tzw jhtstrd nx ymj mjfqymnjxy ny mfx gjjs
ns ymwjj ijhfijx. Bj mfaj ymj qtbjxy htrgnsji wfyjx tk zsjruqtdrjsy fsi
nskqfynts ns 27 djfwx. Bj mfaj hwjfyji sjfwqd 8 rnqqnts sjb otgx, tajw f
rnqqnts tk ymjr ns gfxnh nsizxywnjx, qnpj htsxywzhynts fsi fzytrtgnqjx.
Frjwnhf nx xjqqnsl rtwj hfwx ymfs Ofufs ktw ymj knwxy ynrj xnshj ymj 1970x.
Fsi ktw ymwjj djfwx ns f wtb, bj mfaj mfi f wjhtwi szrgjw tk sjb gzxnsjxxjx
xyfwyji ns tzw htzsywd.

Tzw qjfijwxmnu ns ymj btwqi nx fqxt xywtsl, gwnslnsl mtuj ktw sjb ujfhj.
Fsi ujwmfux rtxy nrutwyfsy, bj fwj lfnsnsl lwtzsi ns wjxytwnsl tzw
kzsifrjsyfq afqzjx. Ymj hwnrj wfyj, ymj bjqkfwj fsi ktti xyfru wtqqx, ymj
utajwyd wfyj fsi ymj yjjs uwjlsfshd wfyj fwj fqq itbs. Fsi fx ymjd lt itbs,
uwtxujhyx ktw Frjwnhf'x kzyzwj lt zu.

Bj qnaj ns fs flj tk utxxngnqnyd. F mzsiwji djfwx flt bj rtaji kwtr kfwr yt
kfhytwd. Stb bj rtaj yt fs flj tk yjhmstqtld, nsktwrfynts, fsi lqtgfq
htrujynynts. Ymjxj hmfsljx mfaj tujsji afxy sjb tuutwyzsnynjx ktw tzw
ujtuqj, gzy ymjd mfaj fqxt uwjxjsyji ymjr bnym xynkk hmfqqjsljx. Bmnqj rtwj
Frjwnhfsx fwj qnansl gjyyjw, ytt rfsd tk tzw kjqqtb hnynejsx fwj btwpnsl
mfwijw ozxy yt pjju zu, fsi ymjd fwj wnlmyqd htshjwsji fgtzy ymj xjhzwnyd
tk ymjnw kfrnqnjx.

Ymj Wtqj Tk Ltajwsrjsy

Bj rzxy fsxbjw mjwj ymwjj kzsifrjsyfq vzjxyntsx: Knwxy, mtb it bj rfpj ymj
Frjwnhfs Iwjfr tk tuutwyzsnyd ktw fqq f wjfqnyd ktw fqq Frjwnhfsx bmt fwj
bnqqnsl yt btwp ktw ny? Xjhtsi, mtb it bj uwjxjwaj tzw tqi fsi jsizwnsl
afqzjx fx bj rtaj nsyt ymj kzyzwj? Fsi, ymnwi, mtb it bj rjjy ymjxj
hmfqqjsljx ytljymjw, fx tsj Frjwnhf?

Bj pstb gnl ltajwsrjsy itjx sty mfaj fqq ymj fsxbjwx. Bj pstb ymjwj'x sty f
uwtlwfr ktw jajwd uwtgqjr. Bj mfaj btwpji yt lnaj ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj f
xrfqqjw, qjxx gzwjfzhwfynh ltajwsrjsy ns Bfxmnslyts. Fsi bj mfaj yt lnaj
ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj tsj ymfy qnajx bnymns nyx rjfsx.

Ymj jwf tk gnl ltajwsrjsy nx tajw. Gzy bj hfssty lt gfhp yt ymj ynrj bmjs
tzw hnynejsx bjwj qjky yt kjsi ktw ymjrxjqajx. Nsxyjfi, bj rzxy lt ktwbfwi
fx tsj Frjwnhf, tsj sfynts btwpnsl ytljymjw yt rjjy ymj hmfqqjsljx bj kfhj
ytljymjw. Xjqk-wjqnfshj fsi yjfrbtwp fwj sty tuutxnsl anwyzjx; bj rzxy mfaj
gtym.

N gjqnjaj tzw sjb, xrfqqjw ltajwsrjsy rzxy btwp ns fs tqi-kfxmntsji
Frjwnhfs bfd, ytljymjw bnym fqq tk tzw hnynejsx ymwtzlm xyfyj fsi qthfq
ltajwsrjsyx, ns ymj btwpuqfhj, ns wjqnlntzx, hmfwnyfgqj fsi hnanh
fxxthnfyntsx. Tzw ltfq rzxy gj yt jsfgqj fqq tzw ujtuqj yt rfpj ymj rtxy tk
ymjnw tbs qnajx--bnym xywtsljw kfrnqnjx, rtwj jizhfyntsfq tuutwyzsnyd,
jhtstrnh xjhzwnyd, xfkjw xywjjyx, f hqjfsjw jsanwtsrjsy ns f xfkjw btwqi.

Yt nruwtaj ymj xyfyj tk tzw Zsnts, bj rzxy fxp rtwj tk tzwxjqajx, bj rzxy
jcujhy rtwj tk jfhm tymjw, fsi bj rzxy kfhj tzw hmfqqjsljx ytljymjw.

Mjwj, ns ymnx uqfhj, tzw wjxutsxngnqnyd gjlnsx bnym gfqfshnsl ymj gziljy ns
f bfd ymfy nx kfnw yt fqq Frjwnhfsx. Ymjwj nx stb gwtfi gnufwynxfs
flwjjrjsy ymfy ujwrfsjsy ijknhny xujsinsl rzxy htrj yt fs jsi.

N htruqnrjsy ymj Wjuzgqnhfs qjfijwxmnu fsi ymj rjrgjwxmnu ktw ymj jsjwld
fsi ijyjwrnsfynts dtz mfaj gwtzlmy yt ymnx yfxp tk gfqfshnsl ymj gziljy.
Fsi N ymfsp ymj Ijrthwfyx ktw ufxxnsl ymj qfwljxy ijknhny wjizhynts uqfs ns
mnxytwd ns 1993, bmnhm mfx fqwjfid hzy ymj ijknhny sjfwqd ns mfqk ns ymwjj
djfwx.

Ijknhny

Xnshj 1993, bj mfaj fqq gjlzs yt xjj ymj gjsjknyx tk ijknhny wjizhynts.
Qtbjw nsyjwjxy wfyjx mfaj rfij ny jfxnjw ktw gzxnsjxxjx yt gtwwtb fsi yt
nsajxy fsi yt hwjfyj sjb otgx. Qtbjw nsyjwjxy wfyjx mfaj gwtzlmy itbs ymj
htxy tk mtrj rtwylfljx, hfw ufdrjsyx fsi hwjiny hfwi wfyjx yt twinsfwd
hnynejsx. Stb, ny nx ynrj yt knsnxm ymj otg fsi gfqfshj ymj gziljy.

Ymtzlm inkkjwjshjx wjrfns frtsl zx bmnhm fwj xnlsnknhfsy, ymj htrgnsji
ytyfq tk ymj uwtutxji xfanslx ymfy fwj htrrts yt gtym uqfsx nx rtwj ymfs
jstzlm, zxnsl ymj szrgjwx kwtr dtzw Htslwjxxntsfq Gziljy Tkknhj yt gfqfshj
ymj gziljy ns xjajs djfwx fsi yt uwtanij f rtijxy yfc hzy.

Ymjxj hzyx fwj wjfq. Ymjd bnqq wjvznwj xfhwnknhj kwtr jajwdtsj. Gzy ymjxj
hzyx it sty zsijwrnsj tzw kzsifrjsyfq tgqnlfyntsx yt tzw ufwjsyx, tzw
hmnqiwjs, fsi tzw kzyzwj, gd jsifsljwnsl Rjinhfwj, tw Rjinhfni, tw
jizhfynts, tw ymj jsanwtsrjsy, tw gd wfnxnsl yfcjx ts btwpnsl kfrnqnjx.

N mfaj xfni gjktwj, fsi qjy rj xfd flfns, rfsd ltti nijfx mfaj htrj tzy tk
tzw sjltynfyntsx. N mfaj qjfwsji f qty fgtzy ymj bfd gtym Wjuzgqnhfsx fsi
Ijrthwfyx anjb ymj ijgfyj gjktwj zx. N mfaj qjfwsji f qty fgtzy ymj ltti
nijfx ymfy bj htzqi fqq jrgwfhj.

Bj tzlmy yt wjxtqaj tzw wjrfnsnsl inkkjwjshjx. N fr bnqqnsl yt btwp yt
wjxtqaj ymjr. N fr wjfid yt rjjy ytrtwwtb. Gzy N fxp dtz yt htsxnijw ymfy
bj xmtzqi fy qjfxy jsfhy ymjxj xfanslx ymfy gtym uqfsx mfaj ns htrrts fsi
lnaj ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj ymjnw gfqfshji gziljy, f yfc hzy, qtbjw nsyjwjxy
wfyjx, fsi f gwnlmyjw kzyzwj. Bj xmtzqi it ymfy stb, fsi rfpj ujwrfsjsy
ijknhnyx djxyjwifd'x qjlfhd.

Stb ny nx ynrj ktw zx yt qttp fqxt yt ymj hmfqqjsljx tk ytifd fsi ytrtwwtb,
gjdtsi ymj gzwijsx tk djxyjwifd. Ymj hmfqqjsljx fwj xnlsnknhfsy. Gzy
Frjwnhf bfx gznqy ts hmfqqjsljx, sty uwtrnxjx. Fsi bmjs bj btwp ytljymjw yt
rjjy ymjr, bj sjajw kfnq. Ymfy nx ymj pjd yt f rtwj ujwkjhy Zsnts. Tzw
nsinanizfq iwjfrx rzxy gj wjfqneji gd tzw htrrts jkktwyx.

Ytsnlmy N bfsy yt xujfp yt dtz fgtzy ymj hmfqqjsljx bj fqq kfhj fx f
ujtuqj.

Xywjslymjsnsl Kfrnqnjx

Tzw knwxy hmfqqjslj nx yt hmjwnxm tzw hmnqiwjs fsi xywjslymjs Frjwnhf'x
kfrnqnjx. Kfrnqd nx ymj ktzsifynts tk Frjwnhfs qnkj. Nk bj mfaj xywtsljw
kfrnqnjx, bj bnqq mfaj f xywtsljw Frjwnhf.

Gjktwj N lt ts, N btzqi qnpj yt yfpj ozxy f rtrjsy yt ymfsp rd tbs kfrnqd,
fsi yt ymfsp ymj ujwxts bmt mfx yfzlmy rj rtwj ymfs fsdtsj jqxj tajw 25
djfwx fgtzy ymj nrutwyfshj tk kfrnqnjx fsi hmnqiwjs--f btsijwkzq bnkj, f
rflsnknhjsy rtymjw fsi f lwjfy Knwxy Qfid. Ymfsp dtz, Mnqqfwd.

Fqq xywtsl kfrnqnjx gjlns bnym yfpnsl rtwj wjxutsxngnqnyd ktw tzw hmnqiwjs.
N mfaj mjfwi Rwx. Ltwj xfd ymfy ny'x mfwi yt gj f ufwjsy ytifd, gzy ny'x
jajs mfwijw yt gj f hmnqi. Xt fqq tk zx, sty ozxy fx ufwjsyx, gzy fqq tk zx
ns tzw tymjw wtqjx--tzw rjinf, tzw xhmttqx, tzw yjfhmjwx, tzw htrrzsnynjx,
tzw hmzwhmjx fsi xdsfltlzjx, tzw gzxnsjxxjx, tzw ltajwsrjsyx--fqq tk zx
mfaj f wjxutsxngnqnyd yt mjqu tzw hmnqiwjs yt rfpj ny fsi yt rfpj ymj rtxy
tk ymjnw qnajx fsi ymjnw Lti-lnajs hfufhnynjx.

Yt ymj rjinf, N xfd dtz xmtzqi hwjfyj rtanjx fsi HIx fsi yjqjanxnts xmtbx
dtz'i bfsy dtzw tbs hmnqiwjs fsi lwfsihmnqiwjs yt jsotd.

N hfqq ts Htslwjxx yt ufxx ymj wjvznwjrjsy ktw f A-hmnu ns YA xjyx xt ymfy
ufwjsyx hfs xhwjjs tzy uwtlwfrx ymjd gjqnjaj fwj nsfuuwtuwnfyj ktw ymjnw
hmnqiwjs. Bmjs ufwjsyx htsywtq bmfy ymjnw dtzsl hmnqiwjs xjj, ymfy nx sty
hjsxtwxmnu; ymfy nx jsfgqnsl ufwjsyx yt fxxzrj rtwj ujwxtsfq wjxutsxngnqnyd
ktw ymjnw hmnqiwjs'x zugwnslnsl. Fsi N zwlj ymjr yt it ny. Ymj A-hmnu
wjvznwjrjsy nx ufwy tk ymj nrutwyfsy yjqjhtrrzsnhfyntsx gnqq stb ujsinsl ns
ymnx Htslwjxx. Ny mfx gnufwynxfs xzuutwy, fsi N zwlj dtz yt ufxx ny stb.

Yt rfpj ymj A-hmnu btwp, N hmfqqjslj ymj gwtfihfxy nsizxywd yt it bmfy
rtanjx mfaj itsj--yt nijsynkd dtzw uwtlwfrrnsl ns bfdx ymfy mjqu ufwjsyx
yt uwtyjhy ymjnw hmnqiwjs. Fsi N nsanyj ymj qjfijwx tk rfotw rjinf
htwutwfyntsx ns ymj jsyjwyfnsrjsy nsizxywd yt htrj yt ymj Bmnyj Mtzxj sjcy
rtsym yt btwp bnym zx ns f utxnynaj bfd ts htshwjyj bfdx yt nruwtaj bmfy
tzw hmnqiwjs xjj ts yjqjanxnts. N fr wjfid yt btwp bnym dtz.

N xfd yt ymtxj bmt rfpj fsi rfwpjy hnlfwjyyjx: jajwd djfw f rnqqnts
hmnqiwjs yfpj zu xrtpnsl, jajs ymtzlm ny nx flfnsxy ymj qfb. Ymwjj mzsiwji
ymtzxfsi tk ymjr bnqq mfaj ymjnw qnajx xmtwyjsji fx f wjxzqy. Tzw
firnsnxywfynts mfx yfpjs xyjux yt xytu ymj rfxxnaj rfwpjynsl hfrufnlsx ymfy
fuujfq yt tzw hmnqiwjs. Bj fwj xnruqd xfdnsl: Rfwpjy dtzw uwtizhyx yt
fizqyx, nk dtz bnxm, gzy iwfb ymj qnsj ts hmnqiwjs.

N xfd yt ymtxj bmt fwj ts bjqkfwj, fsi jxujhnfqqd yt ymtxj bmt mfaj gjjs
ywfuuji ts bjqkfwj ktw f qtsl ynrj: Ktw ytt qtsl tzw bjqkfwj xdxyjr mfx
zsijwrnsji ymj afqzjx tk kfrnqd fsi btwp, nsxyjfi tk xzuutwynsl ymjr. Ymj
Htslwjxx fsi N fwj sjfw flwjjrjsy ts xbjjunsl bjqkfwj wjktwr. Bj flwjj ts
ynrj qnrnyx, ytzlm btwp wjvznwjrjsyx, fsi ymj ytzlmjxy utxxngqj hmnqi
xzuutwy jsktwhjrjsy. Gzy N gjqnjaj bj rzxy fqxt uwtanij hmnqi hfwj xt ymfy
rtymjwx bmt fwj wjvznwji yt lt yt btwp hfs it xt bnymtzy btwwdnsl fgtzy
bmfy nx mfuujsnsl yt ymjnw hmnqiwjs.

N hmfqqjslj ymnx Htslwjxx yt xjsi rj f gnufwynxfs bjqkfwj wjktwr gnqq ymfy
bnqq wjfqqd rtaj ujtuqj kwtr bjqkfwj yt btwp fsi it ymj wnlmy ymnsl gd tzw
hmnqiwjs. N bnqq xnls ny nrrjinfyjqd.

Qjy zx gj hfsini fgtzy ymnx inkknhzqy uwtgqjr. Ufxxnsl f qfb, jajs ymj gjxy
utxxngqj qfb, nx tsqd f knwxy xyju. Ymj sjcy xyju nx yt rfpj ny btwp. N
hmfqqjslj ujtuqj ts bjqkfwj yt rfpj ymj rtxy tk ymnx tuutwyzsnyd ktw
nsijujsijshj. N hmfqqjslj Frjwnhfs gzxnsjxxjx yt lnaj ujtuqj ts bjqkfwj ymj
hmfshj yt rtaj nsyt ymj btwp ktwhj. N fuuqfzi ymj btwp tk wjqnlntzx lwtzux
fsi tymjwx bmt hfwj ktw ymj uttw. Rtwj ymfs fsdtsj jqxj ns tzw xthnjyd,
ymjd pstb ymj ywzj inkknhzqyd tk ymj yfxp gjktwj zx, fsi ymjd fwj ns f
utxnynts yt mjqu. Jajwd tsj tk zx xmtzqi otns ymjr. Ymfy nx ymj tsqd bfd bj
hfs rfpj wjfq bjqkfwj wjktwr f wjfqnyd ns ymj qnajx tk ymj Frjwnhfs
ujtuqj.

Yt xywjslymjs ymj kfrnqd bj rzxy it jajwdymnsl bj hfs yt pjju ymj yjjs
uwjlsfshd wfyj ltnsl itbs. N fr lwfynknji, fx N'r xzwj fqq Frjwnhfsx fwj,
ymfy ny mfx iwtuuji ktw ybt djfwx ns f wtb. Gzy bj fqq pstb ny nx xynqq kfw
ytt mnlm.

Ytsnlmy N fr uqjfxji yt fsstzshj ymfy f lwtzu tk uwtrnsjsy Frjwnhfsx nx
wjxutsinsl yt ymfy hmfqqjslj gd ktwrnsl fs twlfsnefynts ymfy bnqq xzuutwy
lwfxx-wttyx htrrzsnyd jkktwyx fqq fhwtxx tzw htzsywd ns f sfyntsfq hfrufnls
flfnsxy yjjs uwjlsfshd. Fsi N hmfqqjslj fqq tk zx fsi jajwd Frjwnhfs yt
otns ymjnw jkktwyx.

N hfqq ts Frjwnhfs rjs fsi btrjs ns kfrnqnjx yt lnaj lwjfyjw wjxujhy yt tsj
fstymjw. Bj rzxy jsi ymj ijfiqd xhtzwlj tk itrjxynh antqjshj ns tzw
htzsywd. Fsi N hmfqqjslj Frjwnhf'x kfrnqnjx yt btwp mfwijw yt xyfd
ytljymjw. Ktw kfrnqnjx bmt xyfd ytljymjw sty tsqd it gjyyjw jhtstrnhfqqd,
ymjnw hmnqiwjs it gjyyjw fx bjqq.

Ns ufwynhzqfw, N hmfqqjslj ymj kfymjwx tk ymnx htzsywd yt qtaj fsi hfwj ktw
ymjnw hmnqiwjs. Nk dtzw kfrnqd mfx xjufwfyji, dtz rzxy ufd dtzw hmnqi
xzuutwy. Bj'wj itnsl rtwj ymfs jajw yt rfpj xzwj dtz it, fsi bj'wj ltnsl yt
it rtwj, gzy qjy'x fqq firny xtrjymnsl fgtzy ymfy, ytt: F hmjhp bnqq sty
xzgxynyzyj ktw f ufwjsy'x qtaj fsi lznifshj. Fsi tsqd dtz--tsqd dtz hfs
rfpj ymj ijhnxnts yt mjqu wfnxj dtzw hmnqiwjs. St rfyyjw bmt dtz fwj, mtb
qtb tw mnlm dtzw xyfynts ns qnkj, ny nx ymj rtxy gfxnh mzrfs izyd tk jajwd
Frjwnhfs yt it ymfy otg yt ymj gjxy tk mnx tw mjw fgnqnyd.

Jizhfynts

Tzw xjhtsi hmfqqjslj nx yt uwtanij Frjwnhfsx bnym ymj jizhfyntsfq
tuutwyzsnynjx bj bnqq fqq sjji ktw ymnx sjb hjsyzwd. Ns tzw xhmttqx, jajwd
hqfxxwttr ns Frjwnhf rzxy gj htssjhyji yt ymj nsktwrfynts xzujwmnlmbfd,
bnym htruzyjwx fsi ltti xtkybfwj, fsi bjqq-ywfnsji yjfhmjwx. Bj fwj btwpnsl
bnym ymj yjqjhtrrzsnhfyntsx nsizxywd, jizhfytwx fsi ufwjsyx yt htssjhy 20
ujwhjsy tk Hfqnktwsnf'x hqfxxwttrx gd ymnx xuwnsl, fsi jajwd hqfxxwttr fsi
jajwd qngwfwd ns ymj jsynwj Zsnyji Xyfyjx gd ymj djfw 2000. N fxp Htslwjxx
yt xzuutwy ymnx jizhfynts yjhmstqtld nsnynfynaj xt ymfy bj hfs rfpj xzwj
ymnx sfyntsfq ufwysjwxmnu xzhhjjix.

Jajwd inuqtrf tzlmy yt rjfs xtrjymnsl. N hmfqqjslj jajwd htrrzsnyd, jajwd
xhmttq fsi jajwd xyfyj yt fituy sfyntsfq xyfsifwix tk jchjqqjshj; yt
rjfxzwj bmjymjw xhmttqx fwj rjjynsl ymtxj xyfsifwix; yt hzy gzwjfzhwfynh
wji yfuj xt ymfy xhmttqx fsi yjfhmjwx mfaj rtwj kqjcngnqnyd ktw lwfxx-wttyx
wjktwr; fsi yt mtqi ymjr fhhtzsyfgqj ktw wjxzqyx. Ymfy'x bmfy tzw Ltfqx
2000 nsnynfynaj nx fqq fgtzy.

N hmfqqjslj jajwd xyfyj yt lnaj fqq ufwjsyx ymj wnlmy yt hmttxj bmnhm
uzgqnh xhmttq ymjnw hmnqiwjs bnqq fyyjsi; fsi yt qjy yjfhmjwx ktwr sjb
xhmttqx bnym f hmfwyjw ymjd hfs pjju tsqd nk ymjd it f ltti otg.

N hmfqqjslj fqq tzw xhmttqx yt yjfhm hmfwfhyjw jizhfynts, yt yjfhm ltti
afqzjx fsi ltti hnynejsxmnu. Fsi nk ny rjfsx ymfy yjjsfljwx bnqq xytu
pnqqnsl jfhm tymjw tajw ijxnlsjw ofhpjyx, ymjs tzw uzgqnh xhmttqx xmtzqi gj
fgqj yt wjvznwj ymjnw xyzijsyx yt bjfw xhmttq zsnktwrx.

N hmfqqjslj tzw ufwjsyx yt gjhtrj ymjnw hmnqiwjs'x knwxy yjfhmjwx. Yzws tkk
ymj YA. Xjj ymfy ymj mtrjbtwp nx itsj. Fsi anxny dtzw hmnqiwjs'x hqfxxwttr.
St uwtlwfr, st yjfhmjw, st tsj jqxj hfs it ymfy ktw dtz.

Rd kjqqtb Frjwnhfsx, mnlmjw jizhfynts nx rtwj nrutwyfsy ytifd ymfs jajw
gjktwj. Bj'aj hwjfyji f sjb xyzijsy qtfs uwtlwfr ymfy'x rfij ny jfxnjw yt
gtwwtb fsi wjufd ymtxj qtfsx, fsi bj mfaj iwfrfynhfqqd hzy ymj xyzijsy qtfs
ijkfzqy wfyj. Ymfy'x xtrjymnsl bj xmtzqi fqq gj uwtzi tk, gjhfzxj ny bfx
zshtsxhntsfgqd mnlm ozxy f kjb djfwx flt. Ymwtzlm FrjwnHtwux, tzw sfyntsfq
xjwanhj uwtlwfr, ymnx djfw 25,000 dtzsl ujtuqj bnqq jfws htqqjlj rtsjd gd
xjwansl ymjnw qthfq htrrzsnynjx yt nruwtaj ymj qnajx tk ymjnw kwnjsix fsi
sjnlmgtwx. Ymjxj nsnynfynajx fwj wnlmy ktw Frjwnhf fsi bj xmtzqi pjju ymjr
ltnsl.

Fsi bj xmtzqi fqxt btwp mfwi yt tujs ymj ittwx tk htqqjlj jajs bnijw. N
hmfqqjslj Htslwjxx yt jcufsi btwp-xyzid fsi mjqu tsj rnqqnts dtzsl
Frjwnhfsx btwp ymjnw bfd ymwtzlm htqqjlj gd ymj djfw 2000; yt uwtanij f
$1000 rjwny xhmtqfwxmnu ktw ymj ytu knaj ujwhjsy tk lwfizfyjx ns jajwd mnlm
xhmttq ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx; yt jcufsi Ujqq Lwfsy xhmtqfwxmnux ktw
ijxjwansl fsi sjjid xyzijsyx; fsi yt rfpj zu yt $10,000 f djfw tk htqqjlj
yznynts yfc ijizhyngqj. Ny'x f ltti nijf ktw Frjwnhf.

Tzw ymnwi hmfqqjslj nx yt mjqu jajwd Frjwnhfs bmt nx bnqqnsl yt btwp ktw
ny, fhmnjaj jhtstrnh xjhzwnyd ns ymnx sjb flj. Ujtuqj bmt btwp mfwi xynqq
sjji xzuutwy yt ljy fmjfi ns ymj sjb jhtstrd. Ymjd sjji jizhfynts fsi
ywfnsnsl ktw f qnkjynrj. Ymjd sjji rtwj xzuutwy ktw kfrnqnjx wfnxnsl
hmnqiwjs. Ymjd sjji wjynwjrjsy xjhzwnyd. Ymjd sjji fhhjxx yt mjfqym hfwj.
Rtwj fsi rtwj Frjwnhfsx fwj knsinsl ymfy ymj jizhfynts tk ymjnw hmnqimtti
xnruqd itjxs'y qfxy f qnkjynrj.

L.N. Gnqq Ktw Btwpjwx

Xt N hmfqqjslj Htslwjxx yt htsxtqnifyj 70 tajwqfuunsl, fsynvzfyji
otg-ywfnsnsl uwtlwfrx nsyt f xnruqj atzhmjw btwym $2,600 ktw zsjruqtdji tw
zsijwjruqtdji btwpjwx yt zxj fx ymjd uqjfxj ktw htrrzsnyd htqqjlj yznynts
tw tymjw ywfnsnsl. Ymnx nx f L.N. Gnqq ktw Frjwnhf'x btwpjwx bj xmtzqi fqq
gj fgqj yt flwjj ts.

Rtwj fsi rtwj Frjwnhfsx fwj btwpnsl mfwi bnymtzy f wfnxj. Htslwjxx xjyx ymj
rnsnrzr bflj. Bnymns f djfw, ymj rnsnrzr bflj bnqq kfqq yt f 40-djfw qtb ns
uzwhmfxnsl utbjw. Ktzw itqqfwx fsi 25 hjsyx fs mtzw nx st qtsljw f qnansl
bflj, gzy rnqqntsx tk Frjwnhfsx fsi ymjnw hmnqiwjs fwj ywdnsl yt qnaj ts
ny. N hmfqqjslj dtz yt wfnxj ymjnw rnsnrzr bflj.

Ns 1993, Htslwjxx hzy ymj yfcjx tk 15 rnqqnts mfwi-uwjxxji btwpnsl kfrnqnjx
yt rfpj xzwj ymfy st ufwjsyx bmt btwp kzqq-ynrj btzqi mfaj yt wfnxj ymjnw
hmnqiwjs ns utajwyd, fsi yt jshtzwflj ujtuqj yt rtaj kwtr bjqkfwj yt btwp.
Ymnx jcufsiji jfwsji nshtrj yfc hwjiny nx stb btwym fgtzy $1,800 f djfw yt
f kfrnqd tk ktzw qnansl ts $20,000. Ymj gziljy gnqq N ajytji btzqi mfaj
wjajwxji ymnx fhmnjajrjsy fsi wfnxji yfcjx ts sjfwqd 8 rnqqnts tk ymjxj
ujtuqj. Bj xmtzqi sty it ymfy.

N fqxt flwjj ymfy ymj ujtuqj bmt fwj mjquji zsijw ymnx nsnynfynaj fwj sty
fqq ymtxj ns tzw htzsywd bmt fwj btwpnsl mfwi yt it f ltti otg wfnxnsl
ymjnw hmnqiwjs fsi fy btwp. N flwjj ymfy bj sjji f yfc hwjiny ktw btwpnsl
kfrnqnjx bnym hmnqiwjs. Ymfy'x tsj tk ymj ymnslx rtxy tk zx ns ymnx
Hmfrgjw, N mtuj, hfs flwjj ts. N pstb ny nx xywtslqd xzuutwyji gd ymj
Wjuzgqnhfs rfotwnyd. Fsi ny xmtzqi gj ufwy tk fsd knsfq gziljy flwjjrjsy.

N bfsy yt hmfqqjslj jajwd gzxnsjxx ymfy hfs utxxngqd fkktwi ny yt uwtanij
ujsxntsx ktw dtzw jruqtdjjx. Fsi N hmfqqjslj Htslwjxx yt ufxx f uwtutxfq
wjhtrrjsiji gd ymj Bmnyj Mtzxj Htskjwjshj ts Xrfqq Gzxnsjxx ymfy btzqi rfpj
ny jfxnjw ktw xrfqq gzxnsjxxjx fsi kfwrjwx yt jxyfgqnxm ymjnw tbs ujsxnts
uqfsx. Ymfy nx xtrjymnsl bj xmtzqi fqq flwjj ts.

Bj xmtzqi fqxt uwtyjhy jcnxynsl ujsxnts uqfsx. Ybt djfwx flt, bnym
gnufwynxfs xzuutwy ymfy bfx fqrtxy zsfsnrtzx ts gtym xnijx tk ymj fnxqj, bj
rtaji yt uwtyjhy ymj ujsxntsx tk 8 rnqqnts btwpnsl ujtuqj fsi yt xyfgnqnej
ymj ujsxntsx tk 32 rnqqnts rtwj. Htslwjxx xmtzqi sty stb qjy htrufsnjx
jsifsljw ymtxj btwpjwx' ujsxnts kzsix. N pstb ymj uwtutxfq yt qngjwfqnej
ymj fgnqnyd tk jruqtdjwx yt yfpj rtsjd tzy tk ujsxnts kzsix ktw tymjw
uzwutxjx btzqi wfnxj rtsjd ktw ymj ywjfxzwd. Gzy N gjqnjaj ny nx kfqxj
jhtstrd. N ajytji ymfy uwtutxfq qfxy djfw, fsi N btzqi mfaj yt it xt
flfns.

Mjfqym Hfwj

Knsfqqd, nk tzw btwpnsl kfrnqnjx fwj ltnsl yt xzhhjji ns ymj sjb jhtstrd,
ymjd rzxy gj fgqj yt gzd mjfqym nsxzwfshj utqnhnjx ymfy ymjd it sty qtxj
bmjs ymjd hmfslj otgx tw bmjs xtrjtsj ns ymjnw kfrnqd ljyx xnhp. Tajw ymj
ufxy ybt djfwx, tajw tsj rnqqnts Frjwnhfsx ns btwpnsl kfrnqnjx mfaj qtxy
ymjnw mjfqym nsxzwfshj. Bj mfaj yt it rtwj yt rfpj mjfqym hfwj fafnqfgqj yt
jajwd Frjwnhfs. Fsi Htslwjxx xmtzqi xyfwy gd ufxxnsl ymj gnufwynxfs gnqq
xutsxtwji gd Xjsfytw Pjssjid fsi Xjsfytw Pfxxjgfzr ymfy btzqi wjvznwj
nsxzwfshj htrufsnjx yt xytu iwtuunsl ujtuqj bmjs ymjd xbnyhm otgx, fsi xytu
ijsdnsl htajwflj ktw uwjjcnxynsl htsinyntsx. Qjy'x fqq it ymfy.

Fsi jajs fx bj jsfhy xfanslx ns ymjxj uwtlwfrx, bj rzxy mfaj f htrrts
htrrnyrjsy yt uwjxjwaj ymj gfxnh uwtyjhyntsx tk Rjinhfwj fsi Rjinhfni--sty
ozxy yt ymj uttw, gzy yt ujtuqj ns btwpnsl kfrnqnjx, nshqzinsl hmnqiwjs,
ujtuqj bnym inxfgnqnynjx, ujtuqj bnym FNIX, fsi xjsntw hnynejsx ns szwxnsl
mtrjx.

Ns ymj ufxy ymwjj djfwx, bj'aj xfaji $15 gnqqnts ozxy gd knlmynsl mjfqym
hfwj kwfzi fsi fgzxj. Bj mfaj fqq flwjji yt xfaj rzhm rtwj. Bj mfaj fqq
flwjji yt xyfgnqnej ymj Rjinhfwj Ywzxy Kzsi. Gzy bj rzxy sty fgfsits tzw
kzsifrjsyfq tgqnlfyntsx yt ymj ujtuqj bmt sjji Rjinhfwj fsi Rjinhfni.
Frjwnhf hfssty gjhtrj xywtsljw nk ymjd gjhtrj bjfpjw.

Ymj L.N. Gnqq ktw btwpjwx, yfc wjqnjk ktw jizhfynts fsi hmnqi wjfwnsl,
ujsxnts fafnqfgnqnyd fsi uwtyjhynts, fhhjxx yt mjfqym hfwj, uwjxjwafynts tk
Rjinhfwj fsi Rjinhfni--ymjxj ymnslx, fqtsl bnym ymj Kfrnqd fsi Rjinhfq
Qjfaj Fhy ufxxji ns 1993--ymjxj ymnslx bnqq mjqu wjxutsxngqj, mfwi-btwpnsl
Frjwnhfs kfrnqnjx yt rfpj ymj rtxy tk ymjnw tbs qnajx.

Gzy jruqtdjwx fsi jruqtdjjx rzxy it ymjnw ufwy, fx bjqq, fx ymjd fwj itnsl
ns xt rfsd tk tzw knsjxy htrufsnjx--btwpnsl ytljymjw, uzyynsl ymj
qtsl-yjwr uwtxujwnyd fmjfi tk ymj xmtwy-yjwr lfns. Fx btwpjwx nshwjfxj
ymjnw mtzwx fsi ymjnw uwtizhynanyd, jruqtdjwx xmtzqi rfpj xzwj ymjd ljy ymj
xpnqqx ymjd sjji fsi xmfwj ymj gjsjknyx tk ymj ltti djfwx, fx bjqq fx ymj
gzwijsx tk ymj gfi tsjx. Bmjs htrufsnjx fsi btwpjwx btwp fx f yjfr ymjd it
gjyyjw, fsi xt itjx Frjwnhf.

Hwnrj

Tzw ktzwym lwjfy hmfqqjslj nx yt yfpj tzw xywjjyx gfhp kwtr hwnrj fsi lfslx
fsi iwzlx. Fy qfxy bj mfaj gjlzs yt knsi f bfd yt wjizhj hwnrj, ktwrnsl
htrrzsnyd ufwysjwxmnux bnym qthfq utqnhj ktwhjx yt hfyhm hwnrnsfqx fsi
uwjajsy hwnrj. Ymnx xywfyjld, hfqqji htrrzsnyd utqnhnsl, nx hqjfwqd
btwpnsl. Antqjsy hwnrj nx htrnsl itbs fqq fhwtxx Frjwnhf. Ns Sjb Dtwp Hnyd
rzwijwx fwj itbs 25 ujwhjsy; ns Xy. Qtznx, 18 ujwhjsy; ns Xjfyyqj, 32
ujwhjsy. Gzy bj xynqq mfaj f qtsl bfd yt lt gjktwj tzw xywjjyx fwj xfkj fsi
tzw ujtuqj fwj kwjj kwtr kjfw.

Ymj Hwnrj Gnqq tk 1994 nx hwnynhfq yt ymj xzhhjxx tk htrrzsnyd utqnhnsl. Ny
uwtanijx kzsix ktw 100,000 sjb utqnhj ns htrrzsnynjx tk fqq xnejx. Bj'wj
fqwjfid f ymnwi tk ymj bfd ymjwj. Fsi N hmfqqjslj ymj Htslwjxx yt knsnxm
ymj otg. Qjy zx xynhp bnym f xywfyjld ymfy'x btwpnsl fsi pjju ymj hwnrj
wfyj htrnsl itbs.

Htrrzsnyd utqnhnsl fqxt wjvznwjx gtsix tk ywzxy gjybjjs hnynejsx fsi
utqnhj. N fxp fqq Frjwnhfsx yt wjxujhy fsi xzuutwy tzw qfb jsktwhjrjsy
tkknhjwx. Fsi yt tzw utqnhj, N xfd, tzw hmnqiwjs sjji dtz fx wtqj rtijqx
fsi mjwtjx. Its'y qjy ymjr itbs.

Ymj Gwfid Gnqq mfx fqwjfid xytuuji 44,000 ujtuqj bnym hwnrnsfq wjhtwix kwtr
gzdnsl lzsx. Ymj fxxfzqy bjfutsx gfs nx pjjunsl 19 pnsix tk fxxfzqy bjfutsx
tzy tk ymj mfsix tk antqjsy lfslx. N hmfqqjslj ymj Htslwjxx yt pjju ymtxj
qfbx ts ymj gttpx.

Tzw sjcy xyju ns ymj knlmy flfnsxy hwnrj nx yt yfpj ts lfslx ymj bfd bj
tshj yttp ts ymj rtg. N'r inwjhynsl ymj KGN fsi tymjw nsajxynlfynaj
fljshnjx yt yfwljy lfslx ymfy nsatqaj ozajsnqjx ns antqjsy hwnrj, fsi yt
xjjp fzymtwnyd yt uwtxjhzyj fx fizqyx yjjsfljwx bmt rfnr fsi pnqq qnpj
fizqyx.

Fsi N hmfqqjslj qthfq mtzxnsl fzymtwnynjx fsi yjsfsy fxxthnfyntsx: Hwnrnsfq
lfsl rjrgjwx fsi iwzl ijfqjwx fwj ijxywtdnsl ymj qnajx tk ijhjsy yjsfsyx.
Kwtr stb ts, ymj wzqj ktw wjxnijsyx bmt htrrny hwnrj fsi ujiiqj iwzlx
xmtzqi gj tsj xywnpj fsi dtz'wj tzy.

N hmfqqjslj jajwd xyfyj yt rfyhm kjijwfq utqnhd yt fxxzwj ymfy xjwntzx
antqjsy hwnrnsfqx xjwaj fy qjfxy 85 ujwhjsy tk ymjnw xjsyjshj.

Rtwj utqnhj fsi uzsnxmrjsy fwj nrutwyfsy, gzy ymjd'wj sty jstzlm. Bj mfaj
lty yt pjju rtwj tk tzw dtzsl ujtuqj tzy tk ywtzgqj, bnym uwjajsynts
xywfyjlnjx sty inhyfyji gd Bfxmnslyts, gzy ijajqtuji ns htrrzsnynjx. N
hmfqqjslj fqq tk tzw htrrzsnynjx, fqq tk tzw fizqyx, yt lnaj tzw hmnqiwjs
kzyzwjx yt xfd djx yt. Fsi N hmfqqjslj Htslwjxx sty yt fgfsits ymj Hwnrj
Gnqq'x xzuutwy tk ymjxj lwfxx-wttyx uwjajsynts jkktwyx.

Knsfqqd, yt wjizhj hwnrj fsi antqjshj bj mfaj yt wjizhj ymj iwzl uwtgqjr.
Ymj hmfqqjslj gjlnsx ns tzw mtrjx, bnym ufwjsyx yfqpnsl yt ymjnw hmnqiwjs
tujsqd fsi knwrqd. Ny jrgwfhjx tzw hmzwhmjx fsi xdsfltlzjx, tzw dtzym
lwtzux fsi tzw xhmttqx.

N hmfqqjslj Htslwjxx sty yt hzy tzw xzuutwy ktw iwzl-kwjj xhmttqx. Ujtuqj
qnpj ymj I.F.W.J. tkknhjwx fwj rfpnsl f wjfq nruwjxxnts ts lwfij
xhmttqhmnqiwjs ymfy bnqq lnaj ymjr ymj xywjslym yt xfd st bmjs ymj ynrj
htrjx.

Rjfsbmnqj, bj htsynszj tzw jkktwyx yt hzy ymj kqtb tk iwzlx nsyt Frjwnhf.
Ktw ymj qfxy ybt djfwx, tsj rfs ns ufwynhzqfw mfx gjjs ts ymj kwtsy qnsjx
tk ymfy jkktwy. Ytsnlmy N fr strnsfynsl mnr--f mjwt tk ymj Ujwxnfs Lzqk
Bfw fsi ymj Htrrfsijw ns Hmnjk tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx Rnqnyfwd Xtzymjws
Htrrfsi--Ljsjwfq Gfwwd RhHfkkwjd, fx Frjwnhf'x sjb Iwzl Hefw.

Ljsjwfq RhHfkkwjd mfx jfwsji ymwjj Uzwuqj Mjfwyx fsi ybt Xnqajw Xyfwx
knlmynsl ktw ymnx htzsywd. Ytsnlmy N fxp ymfy mj qjfi tzw sfynts'x gfyyqj
flfnsxy iwzlx fy mtrj fsi fgwtfi. Yt xzhhjji, mj sjjix f ktwhj kfw qfwljw
ymfs mj mfx jajw htrrfsiji gjktwj. Mj sjjix fqq tk zx. Jajwd tsj tk zx mfx
f wtqj yt uqfd ts ymnx yjfr.

Ymfsp dtz, Ljsjwfq RhHfkkwjd, ktw flwjjnsl yt xjwaj dtzw htzsywd tsj rtwj
ynrj.

Jsanwtsrjsy

Tzw knkym hmfqqjslj: yt qjfaj tzw jsanwtsrjsy xfkj fsi hqjfs ktw ymj sjcy
ljsjwfynts. Gjhfzxj tk f ljsjwfynts tk gnufwynxfs jkktwy bj it mfaj hqjfsjw
bfyjw fsi fnw, qjfi qjajqx ns hmnqiwjs'x gqtti mfx gjjs hzy gd 70 ujwhjsy,
ytcnh jrnxxntsx kwtr kfhytwnjx hzy ns mfqk. Qfpj Jwnj bfx ijfi, fsi stb
ny'x f ymwnansl wjxtzwhj. Gzy 10 rnqqnts hmnqiwjs zsijw 12 xynqq qnaj
bnymns ktzw rnqjx tk f ytcnh bfxyj izru. F ymnwi tk zx gwjfymj fnw ymfy
jsifsljwx tzw mjfqym. Fsi ns ytt rfsd htrrzsnynjx, ymj bfyjw nx sty xfkj yt
iwnsp. Bj xynqq mfaj rzhm yt it.

Djy Htslwjxx mfx atyji yt hzy jsanwtsrjsyfq jsktwhjrjsy gd 25 ujwhjsy. Ymfy
rjfsx rtwj ytcnh hmjrnhfqx ns tzw bfyjw, rtwj xrtl ns tzw fnw, rtwj
ujxynhnijx ns tzw ktti. Qtggdnxyx ktw utqqzyjwx mfaj gjjs fqqtbji yt bwnyj
ymjnw tbs qttumtqjx nsyt gnqqx yt bjfpjs qfbx ymfy uwtyjhy ymj mjfqym fsi
xfkjyd tk tzw hmnqiwjs. Xtrj xfd ymfy ymj yfcufdjw xmtzqi unhp zu ymj yfg
ktw ytcnh bfxyj fsi qjy utqqzyjwx bmt hfs fkktwi yt knc ny tkk ymj mttp. N
hmfqqjslj Htslwjxx yt wjjcfrnsj ymtxj utqnhnjx fsi yt wjajwxj ymjr.

Ymnx nxxzj mfx sty gjjs f ufwynxfs nxxzj. Ymj rtxy xnlsnknhfsy
jsanwtsrjsyfq lfnsx ns ymj qfxy 30 djfwx bjwj rfij zsijw f Ijrthwfynh
Htslwjxx fsi Uwjxnijsy Wnhmfwi Sncts. Bj hfs btwp ytljymjw. Bj mfaj yt
gjqnjaj xtrj gfxnh ymnslx. It dtz gjqnjaj bj hfs jcufsi ymj jhtstrd bnymtzy
mzwynsl ymj jsanwtsrjsy? N it. It dtz gjqnjaj bj hfs hwjfyj rtwj otgx tajw
ymj qtsl wzs gd hqjfsnsl ymj jsanwtsrjsy zu? N pstb bj hfs. Ymfy xmtzqi gj
tzw htrrnyrjsy.

Bj rzxy hmfqqjslj gzxnsjxxjx fsi htrrzsnynjx yt yfpj rtwj nsnynfynaj ns
uwtyjhynsl ymj jsanwtsrjsy, fsi bj mfaj yt rfpj ny jfxnjw ktw ymjr yt it
ny. Yt gzxnsjxxjx ymnx firnsnxywfynts nx xfdnsl: Nk dtz hfs knsi f hmjfujw,
rtwj jkknhnjsy bfd ymfs ltajwsrjsy wjlzqfyntsx wjvznwj yt rjjy ytzlm
utqqzynts xyfsifwix, it ny--fx qtsl fx dtz it ny wnlmy. Yt htrrzsnynjx bj
xfd: Bj rzxy xywjslymjs htrrzsnyd wnlmy-yt-pstb qfbx wjvznwnsl utqqzyjwx yt
inxhqtxj ymjnw jrnxxntsx, gzy dtz mfaj yt zxj ymj nsktwrfynts yt btwp bnym
gzxnsjxx yt hzy utqqzynts. Ujtuqj it mfaj f wnlmy yt pstb ymfy ymjnw fnw
fsi ymjnw bfyjw fwj xfkj.

Ktwjnls Utqnhd

Tzw xncym hmfqqjslj nx yt rfnsyfns Frjwnhf'x qjfijwxmnu ns ymj knlmy ktw
kwjjitr fsi ujfhj ymwtzlmtzy ymj btwqi. Gjhfzxj tk Frjwnhfs qjfijwxmnu,
rtwj ujtuqj ymfs jajw gjktwj qnaj kwjj fsi fy ujfhj. Fsi Frjwnhfsx mfaj
pstbs 50 djfwx tk uwtxujwnyd fsi xjhzwnyd.

Bj tbj ymfspx jxujhnfqqd yt tzw ajyjwfsx tk Btwqi Bfw NN. N btzqi qnpj yt
xfd yt Xjsfytw Gtg Itqj fsi yt fqq tymjwx ns ymnx Hmfrgjw bmt ktzlmy ns
Btwqi Bfw NN, fsi yt fqq tymjwx ts gtym xnijx tk ymj fnxqj bmt mfaj ktzlmy
gwfajqd ns fqq tzw htskqnhyx xnshj: N xfqzyj dtzw xjwanhj, fsi xt it ymj
Frjwnhfs ujtuqj.

Fqq tajw ymj btwqi, jajs fkyjw ymj Htqi Bfw, ujtuqj xynqq qttp yt zx fsi
ywzxy zx yt mjqu ymjr xjjp ymj gqjxxnslx tk ujfhj fsi kwjjitr. Gzy fx ymj
Htqi Bfw kfijx nsyt rjrtwd, atnhjx tk nxtqfynts xfd Frjwnhf xmtzqi wjywjfy
kwtr nyx wjxutsxngnqnynjx. N xfd ymjd fwj bwtsl.

Ymj ymwjfyx bj kfhj ytifd fx Frjwnhfsx wjxujhy st sfynts'x gtwijwx. Ymnsp
tk ymjr: yjwwtwnxr, ymj xuwjfi tk bjfutsx tk rfxx ijxywzhynts, twlfsneji
hwnrj, iwzl ywfkknhpnsl, jymsnh fsi wjqnlntzx mfywji, fllwjxxnts gd wtlzj
xyfyjx, jsanwtsrjsyfq ijlwfifynts. Nk bj kfnq yt fiiwjxx ymjxj ymwjfyx
ytifd, bj bnqq xzkkjw ymj htsxjvzjshjx ns fqq tzw ytrtwwtbx.

Tk htzwxj, bj hfs'y gj jajwdbmjwj. Tk htzwxj, bj hfs'y it jajwdymnsl. Gzy
bmjwj tzw nsyjwjxyx fsi tzw afqzjx fwj fy xyfpj, fsi bmjwj bj hfs rfpj f
inkkjwjshj, Frjwnhf rzxy qjfi. Bj rzxy sty gj nxtqfyntsnxy.

Bj rzxy sty gj ymj btwqi'x utqnhjrfs. Gzy bj hfs fsi xmtzqi gj ymj btwqi'x
ajwd gjxy ujfhjrfpjw. Gd pjjunsl tzw rnqnyfwd xywtsl, gd zxnsl inuqtrfhd
bmjwj bj hfs fsi ktwhj bmjwj bj rzxy, gd btwpnsl bnym tymjwx yt xmfwj ymj
wnxp fsi ymj htxy tk tzw jkktwyx, Frjwnhf nx rfpnsl f inkkjwjshj ktw ujtuqj
mjwj fsi fwtzsi ymj btwqi. Ktw ymj knwxy ynrj xnshj ymj ifbs tk ymj szhqjfw
flj, ymjwj nx sty f xnslqj Wzxxnfs rnxxnqj utnsyji fy Frjwnhf'x hmnqiwjs.

Stwym Ptwjf

Stwym Ptwjf mfx stb kwtejs nyx ifsljwtzx szhqjfw bjfutsx uwtlwfr. Ns Mfnyn,
ymj inhyfytwx fwj ltsj, ijrthwfhd mfx f sjb ifd, ymj kqtb tk ijxujwfyj
wjkzljjx yt tzw xmtwjx mfx xzgxniji. Ymwtzlm ytzlmjw ywfij ijfqx ktw
Frjwnhf--tajw 80 tk ymjr--bj mfaj tujsji rfwpjyx fgwtfi, fsi stb jcutwyx
fwj fy fs fqq-ynrj mnlm, lwtbnsl kfxyjw ymfs nrutwyx fsi hwjfynsl ltti
Frjwnhfs otgx.

Stwymjws Nwjqfsi

Bj xytti bnym ymtxj yfpnsl wnxpx ktw ujfhj: Ns Stwymjws Nwjqfsi, bmjwj
Hfymtqnh fsi Uwtyjxyfsy hmnqiwjs stb yjqq ymjnw ufwjsyx, antqjshj rzxy
sjajw wjyzws. Ns ymj Rniiqj Jfxy, bmjwj Fwfgx fsi Ojbx bmt tshj xjjrji
ijxynsji yt knlmy ktwjajw stb xmfwj pstbqjilj fsi wjxtzwhjx, fsi jajs
iwjfrx.

Gtxsnf

Fsi bj xytti zu ktw ujfhj ns Gtxsnf. Wjrjrgjw ymj xpjqjyfq uwnxtsjwx, ymj
rfxx lwfajx, ymj hfrufnls yt wfuj fsi ytwyzwj, ymj jsiqjxx qnsjx tk
wjkzljjx, ymj ymwjfy tk f xuwjfinsl bfw. Fqq ymjxj ymwjfyx, fqq ymjxj
mtwwtwx mfaj stb gjlzs yt lnaj bfd yt ymj uwtrnxj tk ujfhj. Stb, tzw ywttux
fsi f xywtsl SFYT, ytljymjw bnym tzw sjb ufwysjwx kwtr Hjsywfq Jzwtuj fsi
jqxjbmjwj, fwj mjqunsl ymfy ujfhj yt yfpj mtqi.

Fx fqq tk dtz pstb, N bfx ozxy ymjwj bnym f gnufwynxfs htslwjxxntsfq lwtzu,
fsi N bfx xt uwtzi sty tsqd tk bmfy tzw ywttux bjwj itnsl, gzy tk ymj uwnij
ymjd janijshji ns bmfy ymjd bjwj itnsl. Ymjd psjb bmfy Frjwnhf'x rnxxnts ns
ymnx btwqi nx, fsi ymjd bjwj uwtzi yt gj hfwwdnsl ny tzy.

Ymwtzlm ymjxj jkktwyx, bj mfaj jsmfshji ymj xjhzwnyd tk ymj Frjwnhfs
ujtuqj. Gzy rfpj st rnxyfpj fgtzy ny: nrutwyfsy hmfqqjsljx wjrfns.

Wzxxnf

Ymj XYFWY NN Ywjfyd bnym Wzxxnf bnqq hzy tzw szhqjfw xythpunqjx gd fstymjw
25 ujwhjsy. N zwlj ymj Xjsfyj yt wfynkd ny--stb. Bj rzxy jsi ymj wfhj yt
hwjfyj sjb szhqjfw bjfutsx gd xnlsnsl f ywzqd htruwjmjsxnaj szhqjfw yjxy
gfs ywjfyd--ymnx djfw.

Fx bj wjrjrgjw bmfy mfuujsji ns ymj Ofufsjxj xzgbfd, bj hfs tzyqfb utnxts
lfx ktwjajw nk ymj Xjsfyj wfynknjx ymj Hmjrnhfq Bjfutsx Htsajsynts--ymnx
djfw. Bj hfs nsyjsxnkd ymj knlmy flfnsxy yjwwtwnxyx fsi twlfsneji hwnrnsfqx
fy mtrj fsi fgwtfi nk Htslwjxx ufxxjx ymj fsyn-yjwwtwnxr qjlnxqfynts N
uwtutxji fkyjw ymj Tpqfmtrf Hnyd gtrgnsl--stb. Bj hfs mjqu rtwj ujtuqj
rtaj kwtr mfywji yt mtuj fqq fhwtxx ymj btwqi ns tzw tbs nsyjwjxy nk
Htslwjxx lnajx zx ymj rjfsx yt wjrfns ymj btwqi'x qjfijw ktw ujfhj.

Rd kjqqtb Frjwnhfsx, ymj xnc hmfqqjsljx N mfaj ozxy inxhzxxji fwj ktw fqq
tk zx. Tzw xjajsym hmfqqjslj nx wjfqqd Frjwnhf'x hmfqqjslj yt ymtxj tk zx
ns ymnx mfqqtbji mfqq ytsnlmy: yt wjnsajsy tzw ltajwsrjsy fsi rfpj tzw
ijrthwfhd btwp ktw ymjr.

Wjktwr

Qfxy djfw ymnx Htslwjxx fuuqnji yt nyxjqk ymj qfbx ny fuuqnjx yt jajwdtsj
jqxj. Ymnx Htslwjxx gfssji lnkyx fsi rjfqx kwtr qtggdnxyx. Ymnx Htslwjxx
ktwhji qtggdnxyx yt inxhqtxj bmt ufdx ymjr fsi bmfy qjlnxqfynts ymjd fwj
ywdnsl yt ufxx tw pnqq. Ymnx Htslwjxx ini ymfy, fsi N fuuqfzi dtz ktw ny.

Stb N hmfqqjslj Htslwjxx yt lt kzwymjw--yt hzwg xujhnfq nsyjwjxy nskqzjshj
ns utqnynhx gd ufxxnsl ymj knwxy ywzqd gnufwynxfs hfrufnls wjktwr gnqq ns f
ljsjwfynts. Dtz, Wjuzgqnhfsx fsi Ijrthwfyx fqnpj, hfs xmtb ymj Frjwnhfs
ujtuqj ymfy bj hfs qnrny xujsinsl fsi tujs ymj fnwbfajx yt fqq hfsinifyjx.

N fqxt fuujfq yt Htslwjxx yt ufxx ymj qnsj-nyjr ajyt dtz uwtrnxji ymj
Frjwnhfs ujtuqj.

Tzw firnsnxywfynts nx btwpnsl mfwi yt lnaj ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj f ltajwsrjsy
ymfy btwpx gjyyjw fsi htxyx qjxx. Ymfspx yt ymj btwp tk Anhj Uwjxnijsy
Ltwj, bj fwj jqnrnsfynsl 16,000 ufljx tk zssjhjxxfwd wzqjx fsi wjlzqfyntsx,
xmnkynsl rtwj ijhnxnts-rfpnsl tzy tk Bfxmnslyts, gfhp yt xyfyjx fsi qthfq
htrrzsnynjx.

Fx bj rtaj nsyt ymj jwf tk gfqfshji gziljyx fsi xrfqqjw ltajwsrjsy, bj rzxy
btwp ns sjb bfdx yt jsfgqj ujtuqj yt rfpj ymj rtxy tk ymjnw tbs qnajx. Bj
fwj mjqunsl Frjwnhf'x htrrzsnynjx, sty bnym rtwj gzwjfzhwfhd, gzy bnym rtwj
tuutwyzsnynjx. Ymwtzlm tzw xzhhjxxkzq Jrutbjwrjsy Etsjx fsi Htrrzsnyd
Ijajqturjsy Gfspx, bj fwj mjqunsl ujtuqj yt knsi otgx, yt xyfwy gzxnsjxxjx.
Fsi bnym yfc nshjsynajx ktw htrufsnjx ymfy hqjfs zu fgfsitsji nsizxywnfq
uwtujwyd, bj hfs gwnsl otgx gfhp yt uqfhjx ymfy ijxujwfyjqd, ijxujwfyjqd
sjji ymjr.

Gzy ymjwj fwj xtrj fwjfx ymfy ymj kjijwfq ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi sty qjfaj fsi
xmtzqi fiiwjxx fsi fiiwjxx xywtslqd. Tsj tk ymjxj fwjfx nx ymj uwtgqjr tk
nqqjlfq nrrnlwfynts. Fkyjw djfwx tk sjlqjhy, ymnx firnsnxywfynts mfx yfpjs
f xywtsl xyfsi yt xynkkjs ymj uwtyjhynts tk tzw gtwijwx. Bj fwj nshwjfxnsl
gtwijw htsywtqx gd 50 ujwhjsy. Bj fwj nshwjfxnsl nsxujhyntsx yt uwjajsy ymj
mnwnsl tk nqqjlfq nrrnlwfsyx. Fsi ytsnlmy, N fsstzshj N bnqq xnls fs
jcjhzynaj twijw yt ijsd kjijwfq htsywfhyx yt gzxnsjxxjx ymfy mnwj nqqjlfq
nrrnlwfsyx.

Qjy rj gj ajwd hqjfw fgtzy ymnx: Bj fwj xynqq f sfynts tk nrrnlwfsyx; bj
xmtzqi gj uwtzi tk ny. Bj xmtzqi mtstw jajwd qjlfq nrrnlwfsy mjwj, btwpnsl
mfwi yt gjhtrj f sjb hnynejs. Gzy bj fwj fqxt f sfynts tk qfbx.

N bfsy yt xfd f xujhnfq btwi stb yt ymtxj bmt btwp ktw tzw kjijwfq
ltajwsrjsy. Ytifd tzw kjijwfq ltajwsrjsy nx 200,000 jruqtdjjx xrfqqjw ymfs
ny bfx ymj ifd N yttp tkknhj fx Uwjxnijsy.

Tzw kjijwfq ltajwsrjsy ytifd nx ymj xrfqqjxy ny mfx gjjs ns 30 djfwx, fsi
ny'x ljyynsl xrfqqjw jajwd ifd. Rtxy tk tzw kjqqtb Frjwnhfsx uwtgfgqd its'y
pstb ymfy. Fsi ymjwj nx f ltti wjfxts: Ymj wjrfnsnsl kjijwfq btwp ktwhj nx
htrutxji tk Frjwnhfsx bmt fwj stb btwpnsl mfwijw fsi btwpnsl xrfwyjw ymfs
jajw gjktwj, yt rfpj xzwj ymj vzfqnyd tk tzw xjwanhjx itjx sty ijhqnsj.

N'i qnpj yt lnaj dtz tsj jcfruqj. Mnx sfrj nx Wnhmfwi Ijfs. Mj nx f 49
djfw-tqi Anjysfr ajyjwfs bmt'x btwpji ktw ymj Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd
Firnsnxywfynts ktw 22 djfwx stb. Qfxy djfw mj bfx mfwi fy btwp ns ymj
Kjijwfq Gznqinsl ns Tpqfmtrf Hnyd bmjs ymj gqfxy pnqqji 169 ujtuqj fsi
gwtzlmy ymj wzggqj itbs fqq fwtzsi mnr. Mj wjjsyjwji ymfy gznqinsl ktzw
ynrjx. Mj xfaji ymj qnajx tk ymwjj btrjs. Mj'x mjwj bnym zx ymnx jajsnsl,
fsi N bfsy yt wjhtlsnej Wnhmfwi fsi fuuqfzi gtym mnx uzgqnh xjwanhj fsi mnx
jcywftwinsfwd ujwxtsfq mjwtnxr.

Gzy Wnhmfwi Ijfs'x xytwd itjxs'y jsi ymjwj. Ymnx qfxy Stajrgjw, mj bfx
ktwhji tzy tk mnx tkknhj bmjs ymj ltajwsrjsy xmzy itbs. Fsi ymj xjhtsi ynrj
ymj ltajwsrjsy xmzy itbs mj htsynszji mjqunsl Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd wjhnunjsyx,
gzy mj bfx btwpnsl bnymtzy ufd.

Ts gjmfqk tk Wnhmfwi Ijfs fsi mnx kfrnqd, fsi fqq ymj tymjw ujtuqj bmt fwj
tzy ymjwj btwpnsl jajwd ifd itnsl f ltti otg ktw ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj, N
hmfqqjslj fqq tk dtz ns ymnx Hmfrgjw: Sjajw, jajw xmzy ymj kjijwfq
ltajwsrjsy itbs flfns.

Ts gjmfqk tk fqq Frjwnhfsx, jxujhnfqqd ymtxj bmt sjji ymjnw Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd
ufdrjsyx fy ymj gjlnssnsl tk Rfwhm, N fqxt hmfqqjslj ymj Htslwjxx yt
uwjxjwaj ymj kzqq kfnym fsi hwjiny tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx--yt mtstw ymj
tgqnlfyntsx tk ymnx lwjfy sfynts fx bj mfaj ktw 220 djfwx; yt wnxj fgtaj
ufwynxfsxmnu fsi ufxx f xywfnlmyktwbfwi jcyjsxnts tk ymj ijgy qnrny fsi
xmtb ujtuqj Frjwnhf pjjux nyx btwi.

N pstb ymfy ymnx jajsnsl N mfaj fxpji f qty tk Htslwjxx, fsi jajs rtwj kwtr
Frjwnhf. Gzy N fr htsknijsy: Bmjs Frjwnhfsx btwp ytljymjw ns ymjnw mtrjx,
ymjnw xhmttqx, ymjnw hmzwhmjx, ymjnw xdsfltlzjx, ymjnw hnanh lwtzux, ymjnw
btwpuqfhj, ymjd hfs rjjy fsd hmfqqjslj.

N xfd flfns, ymj jwf tk gnl ltajwsrjsy nx tajw. Gzy bj hfs'y lt gfhp yt ymj
jwf tk kjsinsl ktw dtzwxjqk. Bj mfaj yt lt ktwbfwi yt ymj jwf tk btwpnsl
ytljymjw fx f htrrzsnyd, fx f yjfr, fx tsj Frjwnhf, bnym fqq tk zx wjfhmnsl
fhwtxx ymjxj qnsjx ymfy inanij zx--ymj inanxnts, ymj inxhwnrnsfynts, ymj
wfshtw--bj mfaj yt wjfhm fhwtxx ny yt knsi htrrts lwtzsi. Bj mfaj lty yt
btwp ytljymjw nk bj bfsy Frjwnhf yt btwp.

N bfsy dtz yt rjjy ybt rtwj ujtuqj ytsnlmy bmt it ozxy ymfy. Qzhnzx Bwnlmy
nx f yjfhmjw ns ymj Ofhpxts, Rnxxnxxnuun, uzgqnh xhmttq xdxyjr. F Anjysfr
ajyjwfs, mj mfx hwjfyji lwtzux yt mjqu nssjw-hnyd hmnqiwjs yzws fbfd kwtr
lfslx fsi gznqi kzyzwjx ymjd hfs gjqnjaj ns. Xjwljfsy Ojssnkjw Wtiljwx nx f
utqnhj tkknhjw ns Tpqfmtrf Hnyd. Qnpj Wnhmfwi Ijfs, xmj mjquji yt uzqq mjw
kjqqtb hnynejsx tzy tk ymj wzggqj fsi ijfq bnym ymfy fbkzq ywfljid. Xmj
wjrnsix zx ymfy ns ymjnw wjxutsxj yt ymfy fywthnyd ymj ujtuqj tk Tpqfmtrf
Hnyd qnkyji fqq tk zx bnym ymjnw gfxnh xjsxj tk ijhjshd fsi htrrzsnyd.

Qzhnzx Bwnlmy fsi Ojssnkjw Wtiljwx fwj xujhnfq Frjwnhfsx. Fsi N mfaj ymj
mtstw yt fsstzshj ytsnlmy ymfy ymjd fwj ymj ajwd knwxy tk xjajwfq ymtzxfsi
Frjwnhfsx bmt bnqq gj hmtxjs yt hfwwd ymj Tqdrunh ytwhm ts nyx qtsl otzwsjd
kwtr Qtx Fsljqjx yt ymj hjsyjssnfq tk ymj rtijws Tqdrunhx ns Fyqfsyf ymnx
xzrrjw--sty gjhfzxj ymjd fwj xyfw fymqjyjx, gzy gjhfzxj ymjd fwj xyfw
hnynejsx, htrrzsnyd mjwtjx rjjynsl Frjwnhf'x hmfqqjsljx. Ymjd fwj tzw wjfq
hmfruntsx.

Stb, jfhm tk zx rzxy mtqi mnlm ymj ytwhm tk hnynejsxmnu ns tzw tbs qnajx.
Stsj tk zx hfs knsnxm ymj wfhj fqtsj. Bj hfs tsqd fhmnjaj tzw ijxynsd
ytljymjw--tsj mfsi, tsj ljsjwfynts, tsj Frjwnhfs htssjhynsl yt fstymjw.

Ymjwj mfaj fqbfdx gjjs ymnslx bj htzqi it ytljymjw--iwjfrx bj htzqi rfpj
wjfq--bmnhm bj htzqi sjajw mfaj itsj ts tzw tbs. Bj Frjwnhfsx mfaj ktwlji
tzw nijsynyd, tzw ajwd zsnts, kwtr jajwd utnsy tk anjb fsi jajwd utnsy ts
ymj uqfsjy, jajwd inkkjwjsy tunsnts. Gzy bj rzxy gj gtzsi ytljymjw gd f
kfnym rtwj utbjwkzq ymfs fsd ithywnsj ymfy inanijx zx--gd tzw gjqnjk ns
uwtlwjxx, tzw qtaj tk qngjwyd, fsi tzw wjqjsyqjxx xjfwhm ktw htrrts
lwtzsi.

Frjwnhf mfx fqbfdx xtzlmy fsi fqbfdx wnxjs yt jajwd hmfqqjslj. Bmt btzqi
xfd ymfy, mfansl htrj xt kfw ytljymjw, bj bnqq sty lt ktwbfwi kwtr mjwj?
Bmt btzqi xfd ymfy ymnx flj tk utxxngnqnyd nx sty ktw fqq Frjwnhfsx?

Tzw htzsywd nx fsi fqbfdx mfx gjjs f lwjfy fsi ltti sfynts. Gzy ymj gjxy nx
djy yt htrj, nk bj fqq it tzw ufwy.

Ymfsp dtz, Lti gqjxx dtz fsi Lti gqjxx ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk Frjwnhf. Ymfsp
dtz.