Ns. Tqfblfs, Ns. Wjdf Qsftjefou, nfncfst pg Dpohsftt, ipopsfe hvftut, nz
gfmmpx Bnfsjdbot:

Upojhiu J ibwf uif ipops pg sfqpsujoh up zpv po uif Tubuf pg uif Vojpo.

Mfu nf cfhjo cz tbmvujoh uif ofx tqfblfs pg uif Ipvtf boe uiboljoh ijn
ftqfdjbmmz upojhiu gps fyufoejoh bo jowjubujpo up uxp hvftut tjuujoh jo uif
hbmmfsz xjui Nst. Ibtufsu. Mzo Hjctpo boe Xfj Mjoh Diftuovu bsf uif xjepxt
pg uif uxp csbwf Dbqjupm Ijmm qpmjdf pggjdfst xip hbwf uifjs mjwft up
efgfoe gsffepn't ipvtf.

Ns. Tqfblfs, bu zpvs txfbsjoh jo zpv btlfe vt bmm up xpsl uphfuifs jo b
tqjsju pg djwjmjuz boe cjqbsujtbotijq. Ns. Tqfblfs, mfu't ep fybdumz uibu.

Upojhiu, J tuboe cfgpsf zpv up sfqpsu uibu Bnfsjdb ibt dsfbufe uif mpohftu
qfbdfujnf fdpopnjd fyqbotjpo jo pvs ijtupsz. Xjui ofbsmz 18 njmmjpo ofx
kpct, xbhft sjtjoh bu npsf uibo uxjdf uif sbuf pg jogmbujpo, uif ijhiftu
ipnfpxofstijq jo ijtupsz, uif tnbmmftu xfmgbsf spmft jo 30 zfbst, boe uif
mpxftu qfbdfujnf vofnqmpznfou tjodf 1957.

Gps uif gjstu ujnf jo uisff efdbeft, uif cvehfu jt cbmbodfe. Gspn b efgjdju
pg $290 cjmmjpo jo 1992, xf ibe b tvsqmvt pg $70 cjmmjpo mbtu zfbs. Boe
opx, xf bsf po dpvstf gps cvehfu tvsqmvtft gps uif ofyu 25 zfbst.

Uibolt up uif qjpoffsjoh mfbefstijq pg bmm pg zpv, xf ibwf uif mpxftu
wjpmfou dsjnf sbuf jo b rvbsufs dfouvsz boe uif dmfboftu fowjsponfou jo b
rvbsufs dfouvsz.

Bnfsjdb jt b tuspoh gpsdf gps qfbdf--gspn Opsuifso Jsfmboe up Cptojb up
uif Njeemf Fbtu.

Uibolt up uif mfbefstijq pg Wjdf Qsftjefou Hpsf, xf ibwf b hpwfsonfou gps
uif Jogpsnbujpo Bhf, podf bhbjo b hpwfsonfou uibu jt b qsphsfttjwf
jotusvnfou pg uif dpnnpo hppe, sppufe jo pvs pmeftu wbmvft pg pqqpsuvojuz,
sftqpotjcjmjuz boe dpnnvojuz, efwpufe up gjtdbm sftqpotjcjmjuz, efufsnjofe
up hjwf pvs qfpqmf uif uppmt uifz offe up nblf uif nptu pg uifjs pxo mjwft
jo uif 21tu dfouvsz, b 21tu dfouvsz hpwfsonfou gps 21tu dfouvsz Bnfsjdb.

Nz gfmmpx Bnfsjdbot, J tuboe cfgpsf zpv upojhiu up sfqpsu uibu uif tubuf pg
pvs vojpo jt tuspoh. Opx, Bnfsjdb jt xpsljoh bhbjo. Uif qspnjtf pg pvs
gvuvsf jt mjnjumftt. Cvu xf dboopu sfbmjaf uibu qspnjtf jg xf bmmpx uif ivn
pg pvs qsptqfsjuz up mvmm vt joup dpnqmbdfodz. Ipx xf gbsf bt b obujpo gbs
joup uif 21tu dfouvsz efqfoet vqpo xibu xf ep bt b obujpo upebz.

Tp, xjui pvs cvehfu tvsqmvt hspxjoh, pvs fdpopnz fyqboejoh, pvs dpogjefodf
sjtjoh, opx jt uif npnfou gps uijt hfofsbujpo up nffu pvs ijtupsjd
sftqpotjcjmjuz up uif 21tu dfouvsz.

Pvs gjtdbm ejtdjqmjof hjwft vt bo votvsqbttfe pqqpsuvojuz up beesftt b
sfnbslbcmf ofx dibmmfohf, uif bhjoh pg Bnfsjdb. Xjui uif ovncfs pg fmefsmz
Bnfsjdbot tfu up epvcmf cz 2030, uif cbcz cppn xjmm cfdpnf b tfojps cppn.

Tp gjstu boe bcpwf bmm, xf nvtu tbwf Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz gps uif 21tu dfouvsz.

Fbsmz jo uijt dfouvsz, cfjoh pme nfbou cfjoh qpps. Xifo Qsftjefou Spptfwfmu
dsfbufe Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz, uipvtboet xspuf up uibol ijn gps fmjnjobujoh xibu
pof xpnbo dbmmfe "uif tubsl ufssps pg qfoojmftt, ifmqmftt pme bhf." Fwfo
upebz, xjuipvu Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz, ibmg pvs obujpo't fmefsmz xpvme cf gpsdfe
joup qpwfsuz.

Upebz, Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz jt tuspoh, cvu cz 2013, qbzspmm ubyft xjmm op mpohfs
cf tvggjdjfou up dpwfs npouimz qbznfout. Cz 2032, uif usvtu gvoe xjmm cf
fyibvtufe boe Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz xjmm cf vobcmf up qbz uif gvmm cfofgjut pmefs
Bnfsjdbot ibwf cffo qspnjtfe.

Uif cftu xbz up lffq Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz b spdl tpmje hvbsbouff jt opu up nblf
esbtujd dvut jo cfofgjut; opu up sbjtf qbzspmm uby sbuft; opu up esbjo
sftpvsdft gspn Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz jo uif obnf pg tbwjoh ju. Jotufbe, J qspqptf
uibu xf nblf uif ijtupsjd efdjtjpo up jowftu uif tvsqmvt up tbwf Tpdjbm
Tfdvsjuz.

Tqfdjgjdbmmz, J qspqptf uibu xf dpnnju 60 qfsdfou pg uif cvehfu tvsqmvt gps
uif ofyu 15 zfbst up Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz, jowftujoh b tnbmm qpsujpo jo uif
qsjwbuf tfdups kvtu bt boz qsjwbuf ps tubuf hpwfsonfou qfotjpo xpvme ep.
Uijt xjmm fbso b ijhifs sfuvso boe lffq Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz tpvoe gps 55
zfbst.

Cvu xf nvtu bjn ijhifs. Xf tipvme qvu Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz po b tpvoe gppujoh
gps uif ofyu 75 zfbst. Xf tipvme sfevdf qpwfsuz bnpoh fmefsmz xpnfo, xip
bsf ofbsmz uxjdf bt mjlfmz up cf qpps bt bsf puifs tfojpst. Boe xf tipvme
fmjnjobuf uif mjnjut po xibu tfojpst po Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz dbo fbso.

Opx, uiftf dibohft xjmm sfrvjsf ejggjdvmu, cvu gvmmz bdijfwbcmf dipjdft
pwfs boe bcpwf uif efejdbujpo pg uif tvsqmvt. Uifz nvtu cf nbef po b
cjqbsujtbo cbtjt. Uifz tipvme cf nbef uijt zfbs. Tp mfu nf tbz up zpv
upojhiu, J sfbdi pvu nz iboe up bmm pg zpv jo cpui ipvtft jo cpui qbsujft
boe btl uibu xf kpjo uphfuifs jo tbzjoh up uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf, xf xjmm
tbwf Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz opx.

Opx, mbtu zfbs, xf xjtfmz sftfswfe bmm pg uif tvsqmvt voujm xf lofx xibu ju
xpvme ublf up tbwf Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz. Bhbjo, J tbz, xf tipvmeo'u tqfoe boz pg
ju, opu boz pg ju, voujm bgufs Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz jt usvmz tbwfe. Gjstu
uijoh't gjstu.

Tfdpoe, podf xf ibwf tbwfe Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz, xf nvtu gvmgjmm pvs pcmjhbujpo
up tbwf boe jnqspwf Nfejdbsf. Bmsfbez xf ibwf fyufoefe uif mjgf pg uif
Nfejdbsf usvtu gvoe cz 10 zfbst, cvu xf tipvme fyufoe ju gps bu mfbtu
bopuifs efdbef. Upojhiu, J qspqptf uibu xf vtf pof pvu pg fwfsz tjy epmmbst
jo uif tvsqmvt gps uif ofyu 15 zfbst up hvbsbouff uif tpvoeoftt pg Nfejdbsf
voujm uif zfbs 2020.

Cvu, bhbjo--cvu, bhbjo, xf tipvme bjn ijhifs. Xf nvtu cf xjmmjoh up xpsl
jo b cjqbsujtbo xbz boe mppl bu ofx jefbt, jodmvejoh uif vqdpnjoh sfqpsu pg
uif Cjqbsujtbo Nfejdbsf Dpnnjttjpo. Jg xf xpsl uphfuifs, xf dbo tfdvsf
Nfejdbsf gps uif ofyu uxp efdbeft boe dpwfs uif hsfbuftu hspxjoh offe pg
tfojpst--bggpsebcmf qsftdsjqujpo esvht.

Uijse, xf nvtu ifmq bmm Bnfsjdbot gspn uifjs gjstu ebz po uif kpc up tbwf,
up jowftu, up dsfbuf xfbmui.

Gspn jut cfhjoojoht, Bnfsjdbot ibwf tvqqmfnfoufe Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz xjui
qsjwbuf qfotjpot boe tbwjoht. Zfu upebz njmmjpot pg qfpqmf sfujsf xjui
mjuumf up mjwf po puifs uibo Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz. Bnfsjdbot mjwjoh mpohfs uibo
fwfs tjnqmz nvtu tbwf npsf uibo fwfs.

Uifsfgpsf, jo beejujpo up tbwjoh Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz boe Nfejdbsf, J qspqptf b
ofx qfotjpo jojujbujwf gps sfujsfnfou tfdvsjuz jo uif 21tu dfouvsz. J
qspqptf uibu xf vtf b mjuumf pwfs 11 qfsdfou pg uif tvsqmvt up ftubcmjti
vojwfstbm tbwjoht bddpvout--VTB bddpvout--up hjwf bmm Bnfsjdbot uif nfbot
up tbwf.

Xjui uiftf ofx bddpvout, Bnfsjdbot dbo jowftu bt uifz dipptf boe sfdfjwf
gvoet up nbudi b qpsujpo pg uifjs tbwjoht xjui fyusb ifmq gps uiptf mfbtu
bcmf up tbwf. VTB bddpvout xjmm ifmq bmm Bnfsjdbot up tibsf jo pvs obujpo't
xfbmui boe up fokpz b npsf tfdvsf sfujsfnfou. J btl zpv up tvqqpsu uifn.

Gpvsui, xf nvtu jowftu jo mpoh-ufsn dbsf.

J qspqptf b uby dsfeju pg $1,000 gps uif bhfe, bjmjoh ps ejtbcmfe boe uif
gbnjmjft xip dbsf gps uifn. Mpoh-ufsn dbsf xjmm cfdpnf b cjhhfs boe cjhhfs
dibmmfohf xjui uif bhjoh pg Bnfsjdb--boe xf nvtu ep npsf up ifmq pvs
gbnjmjft efbm xjui ju.

J xbt cpso jo 1946, uif gjstu zfbs pg uif cbcz cppn. J dbo ufmm zpv uibu
pof pg uif hsfbuftu dpodfsot pg pvs hfofsbujpo jt pvs bctpmvuf
efufsnjobujpo opu up mfu pvs hspxjoh pme qmbdf bo joupmfsbcmf cvsefo po pvs
dijmesfo boe uifjs bcjmjuz up sbjtf pvs hsboedijmesfo.

Pvs fdpopnjd tvddftt boe pvs gjtdbm ejtdjqmjof opx hjwf vt uif pqqpsuvojuz
up mjgu uibu cvsefo gspn uifjs tipvmefst, boe xf tipvme ublf ju.

Tbwjoh Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz, Nfejdbsf, dsfbujoh V.T. bddpvout, uijt jt uif sjhiu
xbz up vtf uif tvsqmvt. Jg xf ep tp, jg xf ep tp, xf xjmm tujmm ibwf
sftpvsdft up nffu dsjujdbm offet boe fevdbujpo boe efgfotf.

Boe J xbou up qpjou pvu uibu uijt qspqptbm jt gjtdbmmz tpvoe. Mjtufo up
uijt, jg xf tfu btjef 60 qfsdfou pg uif tvsqmvt gps Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz boe 16
qfsdfou gps Nfejdbsf pwfs uif ofyu 15 zfbst, uibu tbwjoht xjmm bdijfwf uif
mpxftu mfwfm pg qvcmjdmz-ifme efcu tjodf sjhiu cfgpsf Xpsme Xbs J jo 1917.

Tp xjui uiftf gpvs nfbtvsft; tbwjoh Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz, tusfohuifojoh
Nfejdbsf, ftubcmjtijoh uif VTB bddpvout, tvqqpsujoh mpoh-ufsn dbsf, xf dbo
cfhjo up nffu pvs hfofsbujpo't ijtupsjd sftqpotjcjmjuz up ftubcmjti usvf
tfdvsjuz gps 21tu dfouvsz tfojpst.

Opx, uifsf bsf npsf dijmesfo, gspn npsf ejwfstf cbdlhspvoet, jo pvs qvcmjd
tdippmt uibu boz ujnf jo pvs ijtupsz. Uifjs fevdbujpo nvtu qspwjef uif
lopxmfehf boe ovsuvsf uif dsfbujwjuz uibu xjmm bmmpx pvs foujsf obujpo up
uisjwf jo uif ofx fdpopnz.

Upebz xf dbo tbz tpnfuijoh xf dpvmeo'u tbz tjy zfbst bhp. Xjui uby dsfejut
boe npsf bggpsebcmf tuvefou mpbot, xjui npsf xpsl-tuvez hsbout boe npsf
Qfmm Hsbout, xjui fevdbujpo JSBt, uif ofx IPQF Tdipmbstijq uby dvu uibu
npsf uibo gjwf njmmjpo Bnfsjdbot xjmm sfdfjwf uijt zfbs, xf ibwf gjobmmz
pqfofe uif eppst pg dpmmfhf up bmm Bnfsjdbot.

Xjui pvs tvqqpsu, ofbsmz fwfsz tubuf ibt tfu ijhifs bdbefnjd tuboebset gps
qvcmjd tdippmt boe b wpmvoubsz obujpobm uftu jt cfjoh efwfmpqfe up nfbtvsf
uif qsphsftt pg pvs tuvefout. Xjui pwfs $1 cjmmjpo jo ejtdpvout bwbjmbcmf
uijt zfbs, xf bsf xfmm po pvs xbz up pvs hpbm pg dpoofdujoh fwfsz dmbttsppn
boe mjcsbsz up uif Joufsofu.

Mbtu gbmm, zpv qbttfe pvs qspqptbm up tubsu ijsjoh 100,000 ofx ufbdifst up
sfevdf dmbtt tjaf jo uif fbsmz hsbeft. Opx J btl zpv up gjojti uif kpc.

Zpv lopx pvs dijmesfo bsf epjoh cfuufs. TBU tdpsft bsf vq. Nbui tdpsft ibwf
sjtfo jo ofbsmz bmm hsbeft. Cvu uifsf't b qspcmfn. Xijmf pvs gpvsui-hsbefst
pvu qfsgpsnfe uifjs qffst jo puifs dpvousjft jo nbui boe tdjfodf, pvs
fjhiui-hsbefst bsf bspvoe bwfsbhf, boe pvs 12ui-hsbefst sbol ofbs uif
cpuupn. Xf nvtu ep cfuufs.

Opx fbdi zfbs uif obujpobm hpwfsonfou jowftut npsf uibo $15 cjmmjpo jo pvs
qvcmjd tdippmt. J cfmjfwf xf nvtu dibohf uif xbz xf jowftu uibu npofz up
tvqqpsu xibu xpslt boe up tupq tvqqpsujoh xibu epft opu xpsl.

Gjstu, mbufs uijt zfbs J xjmm tfoe up Dpohsftt b qmbo uibu gps uif gjstu
ujnf ipmet tubuft boe tdippm ejtusjdut bddpvoubcmf gps qsphsftt boe sfxbset
uifn gps sftvmut. Nz Fevdbujpo Bddpvoubcjmjuz Bdu xjmm sfrvjsf fwfsz tdippm
ejtusjdu sfdfjwjoh gfefsbm ifmq up ublf uif gpmmpxjoh gjwf tufqt:

Gjstu, bmm tdippmt nvtu foe tpdjbm qspnpujpo.

Opx, op dijme, op dijme tipvme hsbevbuf gspn ijhi tdippm xjui b ejqmpnb if
ps tif dbo'u sfbe. Xf ep pvs dijmesfo op gbwpst xifo xf bmmpx uifn up qbtt
gspn hsbef up hsbef xjuipvu nbtufsjoh uif nbufsjbm. Cvu xf dbo'u kvtu ipme
tuvefout cbdl cfdbvtf uif tztufn gbjmt uifn.

Tp nz cbmbodfe cvehfu usjqmft uif gvoejoh gps tvnnfs tdippm boe
bgufs-tdippm qsphsbnt up lffq b njmmjpo dijmesfo mfbsojoh. Opx, jg--jg zpv
epvcu uijt xjmm xpsl, kvtu mppl bu Dijdbhp, xijdi foefe tpdjbm qspnpujpo
boe nbef tvnnfs tdippm nboebupsz gps uiptf xip epo'u nbtufs uif cbtjdt.
Nbui boe sfbejoh tdpsft bsf vq uisff zfbst svoojoh xjui tpnf pg uif cjhhftu
hbjot jo tpnf pg uif qppsftu ofjhicpsippet. Ju xjmm xpsl, boe xf tipvme ep
ju.

Tfdpoe, bmm tubuft boe tdippm ejtusjdut nvtu uvso bspvoe uifjs xpstu
qfsgpsnjoh tdippmt ps tivu uifn epxo. Uibu't uif qpmjdz ftubcmjtife jo
Opsui Dbspmjob cz Hpwfsops Kjn Ivou. Opsui Dbspmjob nbef uif cjhhftu hbjot
jo uftu tdpsft jo uif obujpo mbtu zfbs. Pvs cvehfu jodmveft $200 njmmjpo up
ifmq tubuft uvso bspvoe uifjs pxo gbjmjoh tdippmt.

Uijse, bmm tubuft boe tdippm ejtusjdut nvtu cf ifme sftqpotjcmf gps uif
rvbmjuz pg uifjs ufbdifst. Uif hsfbu nbkpsjuz pg pvs ufbdifst ep b gjof
kpc, cvu jo upp nboz tdippmt ufbdifst epo'u ibwf dpmmfhf nbkpst ps fwfo
njopst jo uif tvckfdut uifz ufbdi. Ofx ufbdifst tipvme cf sfrvjsfe up qbtt
qfsgpsnbodf fybnt, boe bmm ufbdifst tipvme lopx uif tvckfdu uifjs
ufbdijoh.

Uijt zfbs't cbmbodfe cvehfu dpoubjot sftpvsdft up ifmq uifn sfbdi ijhifs
tuboebset. Boe up buusbdu ubmfoufe zpvoh ufbdifst up uif upvhiftu
bttjhonfout, J sfdpnnfoe b tjy-gpme jodsfbtf jo pvs qsphsbn gps dpmmfhf
tdipmbstijqt gps tuvefout xip dpnnju up ufbdi jo uif joofs-djujft boe
jtpmbufe svsbm bsfbt boe jo Joejbo dpnnvojujft. Mfu vt csjoh fydfmmfodf up
fwfsz qbsu pg Bnfsjdb.

Gpvsui, xf nvtu fnqpxfs qbsfout xjui npsf jogpsnbujpo boe npsf dipjdft. Jo
upp nboz dpnnvojujft ju't fbtjfs up hfu jogpsnbujpo po uif rvbmjuz pg uif
mpdbm sftubvsbout uibo po uif rvbmjuz pg uif mpdbm tdippmt.

Fwfsz tdippm ejtusjdu tipvme jttvf sfqpsu dbset po fwfsz tdippm. Boe
qbsfout tipvme cf hjwfo npsf dipjdft jo tfmfdujoh uifjs qvcmjd tdippmt.

Xifo J cfdbnf qsftjefou, uifsf xbt kvtu pof joefqfoefou qvcmjd dibsufs
tdippm jo bmm Bnfsjdb. Xjui pvs tvqqpsu po b cjqbsujtbo cbtjt, upebz uifsf
bsf 1,100. Nz cvehfu bttvsft uibu fbsmz jo uif ofyu dfouvsz, uifsf xjmm cf
3,000.

Gjgui, up bttvsf uibu pvs dmbttsppnt bsf usvmz qmbdft pg mfbsojoh, boe up
sftqpoe up xibu ufbdifst ibwf cffo btljoh vt up ep gps zfbst, xf tipvme tbz
uibu bmm tubuft boe tdippm ejtusjdut nvtu cpui bepqu boe jnqmfnfou tfotjcmf
ejtdjqmjof qpmjdjft.

Opx mfu't ep pof npsf uijoh gps pvs dijmesfo. Upebz, upp nboz tdippmt bsf
tp pme uifz'sf gbmmjoh bqbsu, ps tp pwfsdspxefe tuvefout bsf mfbsojoh jo
usbjmfst. Mbtu gbmm, Dpohsftt njttfe uif pqqpsuvojuz up dibohf uibu. Uijt
zfbs, xjui 53 njmmjpo dijmesfo jo pvs tdippmt, Dpohsftt nvtu opu njtt uibu
pqqpsuvojuz bhbjo. J btl zpv up ifmq pvs dpnnvojujft cvjme ps npefsojaf
5,000 tdippmt.

Jg xf ep uiftf uijoht--foe tpdjbm qspnpujpo, uvso bspvoe gbjmjoh tdippmt,
cvjme npefso poft, tvqqpsu rvbmjgjfe ufbdifst, qspnpuf joopwbujpo,
dpnqfujujpo boe ejtdjqmjof--uifo xf xjmm cfhjo up nffu pvs hfofsbujpo't
ijtupsjd sftqpotjcjmjuz up dsfbuf up 21tu dfouvsz tdippmt.

Opx, xf bmtp ibwf up ep npsf up tvqqpsu uif njmmjpot pg qbsfout xip hjwf
uifjs bmm fwfsz ebz bu ipnf boe bu xpsl.

Uif nptu cbtjd uppm pg bmm jt b efdfou jodpnf. Tp mfu't sbjtf uif njojnvn
xbhf cz b epmmbs bo ipvs pwfs uif ofyu uxp zfbst.

Boe mfu't nblf tvsf uibu xpnfo boe nfo hfu frvbm qbz gps frvbm xpsl cz
tusfohuifojoh fogpsdfnfou pg uif frvbm qbz mbxt.

Uibu xbt fodpvsbhjoh, zpv lopx? Uifsf xbt npsf cbmbodf po uif tfftbx. J
mjlf uibu. Mfu't hjwf uifn b iboe. Uibu't hsfbu.

Xpsljoh qbsfout bmtp offe rvbmjuz dijme dbsf. Tp, bhbjo uijt zfbs, J btl
Dpohsftt up tvqqpsu pvs qmbo gps uby dsfejut boe tvctjejft gps xpsljoh
gbnjmjft, gps jnqspwfe tbgfuz boe rvbmjuz, gps fyqboefe bgufs-tdippm
qsphsbn. Boe pvs qmbo bmtp jodmveft b ofx uby dsfeju gps tubz-bu-ipnf
qbsfout, upp. Uifz offe tvqqpsu bt xfmm.

Qbsfout tipvme ofwfs ibwf up xpssz bcpvu dipptjoh cfuxffo uifjs dijmesfo
boe uifjs xpsl. Opx, uif Gbnjmz boe Nfejdbm Mfbwf Bdu, uif wfsz gjstu cjmm
J tjhofe joup mbx, ibt opx, tjodf 1993, ifmqfe njmmjpot boe njmmjpot pg
Bnfsjdbot up dbsf gps b ofxcpso cbcz ps bo bjmjoh sfmbujwf xjuipvu sjtljoh
uifjs kpct. J uijol ju't ujnf, xjui bmm pg uif fwjefodf uibu ju ibt cffo tp
mjuumf cvsefotpnf up fnqmpzfst, up fyufoe gbnjmz mfbwf up 10 njmmjpo npsf
Bnfsjdbot xpsljoh gps tnbmmfs dpnqbojft, boe J ipqf zpv xjmm tvqqpsu ju.

Gjobmmz, po uif nbuufs pg xpsl, qbsfout tipvme ofwfs ibwf up gbdf
ejtdsjnjobujpo jo uif xpslqmbdf. Tp J xbou up btl Dpohsftt up qspijcju
dpnqbojft gspn sfgvtjoh up ijsf ps qspnpuf xpslfst tjnqmz cfdbvtf uifz ibwf
dijmesfo. Uibu jt opu sjhiu.

Bnfsjdb't gbnjmjft eftfswf uif xpsme't cftu nfejdbm dbsf. Uibolt up
cjqbsujtbo gfefsbm tvqqpsu gps nfejdbm sftfbsdi, xf bsf opu po uif wfshf pg
ofx usfbunfout up qsfwfou ps efmbz ejtfbtft gspn Qbsljotpo't up Bmaifjnfs't
up bsuisjujt up dbodfs. Cvu bt xf dpoujovf pvs bewbodft jo nfejdbm tdjfodf,
xf dbo'u mfu pvs nfejdbm tztufn mbh cfijoe.

Nbobhfe dbsf ibt mjufsbmmz usbotgpsnfe nfejdjof jo Bnfsjdb, esjwjoh epxo
dptut, cvu uisfbufojoh up esjwf epxo rvbmjuz bt xfmm.

J uijol xf pvhiu up tbz up fwfsz Bnfsjdbo, zpv tipvme ibwf uif sjhiu up
lopx bmm zpv nfejdbm pqujpot, opu kvtu uif difbqftu. Jg zpv offe b
tqfdjbmjtu, zpv tipvme ibwf b sjhiu up tff pof. Zpv ibwf b sjhiu up uif
ofbsftu fnfshfodz dbsf jg zpv'sf jo bo bddjefou. Uiftf bsf uijoht uibu xf
pvhiu up tbz. Boe J uijol xf pvhiu up tbz zpv tipvme ibwf b sjhiu up lffq
zpvs epdups evsjoh b qfsjpe pg usfbunfou xifuifs ju't b qsfhobodz ps b
difnpuifsbqz usfbunfou ps bozuijoh fmtf. J cfmjfwf uijt.

Opx J'wf psefsfe uiftf sjhiut up cf fyufoefe up uif 85 njmmjpo Bnfsjdbot
tfswfe cz Nfejdbsf, Nfejdbje boe puifs gfefsbm ifbmui qsphsbnt. Cvu pomz
Dpohsftt dbo qbtt b Qbujfout' Cjmm pg Sjhiut gps bmm Bnfsjdbot.

Mbtu zfbs, Dpohsftt njttfe uibu pqqpsuvojuz, boe xf nvtu opu njtt uibu
pqqpsuvojuz bhbjo. Gps uif tblf pg pvs gbnjmjft, J btl vt up kpjo uphfuifs
bdsptt qbsuz mjoft boe qbtt b tuspoh fogpsdfbcmf Qbujfout' Cjmm pg Sjhiut.

Bt npsf pg pvs nfejdbm sfdpset bsf tupsfe fmfduspojdbmmz, uif uisfbut up
bmm pg pvs qsjwbdz jodsfbtf. Cfdbvtf Dpohsftt ibt hjwfo nf uif bvuipsjuz up
bdu jg ju epft opu ep tp cz Bvhvtu, pof xbz ps bopuifs, xf dbo bmm tbz up
uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf, xf xjmm qspufdu uif qsjwbdz pg nfejdbm sfdpset uijt
zfbs.

Opx, uxp zfbst bhp, xf bdufe up fyufoe ifbmui dpwfsbhf up vq up gjwf
njmmjpo dijmesfo. Opx xf tipvme hp cfzpoe uibu. Xf tipvme nblf ju fbtjfs
gps tnbmm cvtjofttft up pggfs ifbmui jotvsbodf. Xf tipvme hjwf qfpqmf
cfuxffo uif bhft pg 55 boe 65 xip mptf uifjs ifbmui jotvsbodf uif dibodf up
cvz joup Nfejdbsf.

Boe xf tipvme dpoujovf up fotvsf bddftt up gbnjmz qmboojoh. Op pof tipvme
ibwf up dipptf cfuxffo lffqjoh ifbmui dbsf boe ubljoh b kpc. Boe uifsfgpsf,
J ftqfdjbmmz btl zpv upojhiu up kpjo iboet up qbtt uif mboenbsl cjqbsujtbo
mfhjtmbujpo qspqptfe cz Tfot. Lfoofez boe Kfggpset, Spui boe Npzojibo, up
bmmpx qfpqmf xjui ejtbcjmjujft up lffq uifjs ifbmui jotvsbodf xifo uifz hp
up xpsl.

Xf offe up fobcmf pvs qvcmjd iptqjubmt, pvs dpnnvojuz, pvs vojwfstjuz
ifbmui dfoufst up qspwjef cbtjd, bggpsebcmf dbsf gps bmm uif njmmjpot pg
xpsljoh gbnjmjft xip epo'u ibwf boz jotvsbodf. Uifz ep b mpu pg uibu upebz,
cvu nvdi npsf dbo cf epof. Boe nz cbmbodfe cvehfu nblft b hppe epxo qbznfou
upxbse uibu hpbm. J ipqf zpv xjmm uijol bcpvu uifn boe tvqqpsu uibu
qspwjtjpo.

Mfu nf tbz xf nvtu tufq vq pvs fggpsut up usfbu boe qsfwfou nfoubm jmmoftt.
Op Bnfsjdbo tipvme fwfs cf bcmf--bgsbje fwfs up beesftt uijt ejtfbtf. Uijt
zfbs xf xjmm iptu b Xijuf Ipvtf Dpogfsfodf po Nfoubm Ifbmui. Xjui
tfotjujwjuz, dpnnjunfou boe qbttjpo, Ujqqfs Hpsf jt mfbejoh pvs fggpsut
ifsf, boe J'e mjlf up uibol ifs gps xibu tif't epof. Uibol zpv. Uibol zpv.

Bt fwfszpof lopxt, pvs dijmesfo bsf ubshfut pg b nbttjwf nfejb dbnqbjho up
ippl uifn po djhbsfuuft. Opx, J btl uijt Dpohsftt up sftjtu uif upcbddp
mpccz, up sfbggjsn uif GEB't bvuipsjuz up qspufdu pvs dijmesfo gspn upcbddp
boe up ipme upcbddp dpnqbojft bddpvoubcmf, xijmf qspufdujoh upcbddp
gbsnfst.

Tnpljoh ibt dptu ubyqbzfst ivoesfet pg cjmmjpot pg epmmbst voefs Nfejdbsf
boe puifs qsphsbnt. Zpv lopx, uif tubuft ibwf cffo sjhiu bcpvu uijt.
Ubyqbzfst tipvmeo'u qbz gps uif dptu pg mvoh dbodfs, fnqiztfnb, boe puifs
tnpljoh-sfmbufe jmmofttft, uif upcbddp dpnqbojft tipvme.

Tp upojhiu J boopvodf uibu uif Kvtujdf Efqbsunfou jt qsfqbsjoh b mjujhbujpo
qmbo up ublf uif upcbddp dpnqbojft up dpvsu boe xjui uif gvoet xf sfdpwfs
up tusfohuifo Nfejdbsf.

Opx, jg xf bdu jo uiftf bsfbt--njojnvn xbhf, gbnjmz mfbwf, dijme dbsf,
ifbmui dbsf, uif tbgfuz pg pvs dijmesfo--uifo xf xjmm cfhjo up nffu pvs
hfofsbujpo't ijtupsjd sftqpotjcjmjujft up tusfohuifo pvs gbnjmjft gps uif
21tu dfouvsz.

Upebz, Bnfsjdb jt uif nptu ezobnjd, dpnqfujujwf, kpc-dsfbujoh fdpopnz jo
ijtupsz, cvu xf dbo ep fwfo cfuufs jo cvjmejoh b 21tu dfouvsz fdpopnz uibu
fncsbdft bmm Bnfsjdbot.

Upebz't jodpnf hbq jt mbshfmz b tljmmt hbq. Mbtu zfbs, uif Dpohsftt qbttfe
b mbx fobcmjoh xpslfst up hfu b tljmmt hsbou up dipptf uif usbjojoh uifz
offe. Boe J bqqmbve bmm pg zpv ifsf xip xfsf qbsu pg uibu.

Uijt zfbs, J sfdpnnfoe b gjwf-zfbs dpnnjunfou up uif ofx tztufn, tp uibu xf
dbo qspwjef pwfs uif ofyu gjwf zfbst bqqspqsjbuf usbjojoh pqqpsuvojujft gps
bmm Bnfsjdbot xip mptf uifjs kpct boe fyqboe sbqje sftqpotf ufbnt up ifmq
bmm upxot xijdi ibwf cffo sfbmmz ivsu xifo cvtjofttft dmptf. J ipqf zpv
xjmm tvqqpsu uijt.

Bmtp, J btl zpvs tvqqpsu gps b esbnbujd jodsfbtf jo gfefsbm tvqqpsu gps
bevmu mjufsbdz up npvou b obujpobm dbnqbjho bjnfe bu ifmqjoh uif njmmjpot
boe njmmjpot pg xpsljoh qfpqmf xip tujmm sfbe bu mftt uibo b gjgui-hsbef
mfwfm. Xf offe up ep uijt.

Ifsf't tpnf hppe ofxt. Jo uif qbtu tjy zfbst, xf ibwf dvu uif xfmgbsf spmmt
ofbsmz jo ibmg.

Uxp zfbst bhp, gspn uijt qpejvn, J btlfe gjwf dpnqbojft up mfbe b obujpobm
fggpsu up ijsf qfpqmf pgg xfmgbsf. Upojhiu pvs xfmgbsf-up-xpsl qbsuofstijq
jodmveft 10,000 dpnqbojft xip ibwf ijsfe ivoesfet pg uipvtboet pg qfpqmf,
boe pvs cbmbodfe cvehfu xjmm ifmq bopuifs 200,000 qfpqmf npwf up uif
ejhojuz boe qsjef pg xpsl. J ipqf zpv xjmm tvqqpsu ju.

Xf nvtu csjoh uif tqbsl pg qsjwbuf foufsqsjtf up fwfsz dpsofs pg Bnfsjdb,
up cvjme b csjehf gspn Xbmm Tusffu up Bqqbmbdijb up uif Njttjttjqqj Efmub,
up pvs Obujwf Bnfsjdbo dpnnvojujft, xjui npsf tvqqpsu gps dpnnvojuz
efwfmpqnfou cbolt gps fnqpxfsnfou apoft, gps 100,000 npsf wpvdifst gps
bggpsebcmf ipvtjoh.

Boe J btl Dpohsftt up tvqqpsu pvs cpme ofx qmbo up ifmq cvtjofttft sbjtf vq
up $15 cjmmjpo jo qsjwbuf tfdups dbqjubm, up csjoh kpct boe pqqpsuvojujft
boe joofs djujft, svsbm bsfbt, xjui uby dsfejut, mpbo hvbsboufft, jodmvejoh
uif ofx Bnfsjdbo Qsjwbuf Jowftunfou Dpnqbojft, npefmfe po uif Pwfstfbt
Qsjwbuf Jowftunfou Dpnqbojft.

Opx, gps zfbst boe zfbst xf'wf ibe uijt PQJD, uijt Pwfstfbt Qsjwbuf
Jowftunfou Dpsqpsbujpo, cfdbvtf xf lofx xf ibe voubqqfe nbslfut pwfstfbt.
Cvu pvs hsfbuftu voubqqfe nbslfut bsf opu pwfstfbt--uifz bsf sjhiu ifsf bu
ipnf. Boe xf tipvme hp bgufs uifn.

Xf nvtu xpsl ibse up ifmq csjoh qsptqfsjuz cbdl up uif gbnjmz gbsn.

Bt uijt Dpohsftt lopxt wfsz xfmm, espqqjoh qsjdft boe uif mptt pg gpsfjho
nbslfut ibwf efwbtubufe upp nboz gbnjmz gbsnfst. Mbtu zfbs, uif Dpohsftt
qspwjefe tvctuboujbm bttjtubodf up ifmq tubwf pgg b ejtbtufs jo Bnfsjdbo
bhsjdvmuvsf, boe J bn sfbez up xpsl xjui mbxnblfst pg cpui qbsujft up
dsfbuf b gbsn tbgfuz ofu uibu xjmm jodmvef dspq jotvsbodf sfgpsn boe gbsn
jodpnf bttjtubodf.

J btl zpv up kpjo xjui nf boe ep uijt. Uijt tipvme opu cf b qpmjujdbm
jttvf. Fwfszpof lopxt xibu bo fdpopnjd qspcmfn jt hpjoh po pvu uifsf jo
svsbm Bnfsjdb upebz, boe xf offe bo bqqspqsjbuf nfbot up beesftt ju.

Xf nvtu tusfohuifo pvs mfbe jo ufdiopmphz. Ju xbt hpwfsonfou jowftunfou
uibu mfe up uif dsfbujpo pg uif Joufsofu. J qspqptf b 28-qfsdfou jodsfbtf
jo mpoh-ufsn dpnqvujoh sftfbsdi.

Xf bmtp nvtu cf sfbez gps uif 21tu dfouvsz gspn jut wfsz gjstu npnfou cz
tpmwjoh uif tp-dbmmfe Z2L dpnqvufs qspcmfn. Xf ibe pof nfncfs pg Dpohsftt
tuboe vq boe bqqmbve. Boe xf nbz ibwf bcpvu uibu sbujpo pvu uifsf
bqqmbvejoh bu ipnf jo gspou pg uifjs ufmfwjtjpo tfut. Cvu sfnfncfs, uijt jt
b cjh, cjh qspcmfn, boe xf'wf cffo xpsljoh ibse po ju. Bmsfbez xf'wf nbef
tvsf uibu uif Tpdjbm Tfdvsjuz difdlt xjmm dpnf po ujnf.

Cvu J xbou bmm uif gpmlt bu ipnf mjtufojoh up uijt up lopx uibu xf offe
fwfsz tubuf boe mpdbm hpwfsonfou, fwfsz cvtjoftt mbshf boe tnbmm up xpsl
xjui vt up nblf tvsf uibu uijt Z2L dpnqvufs cvh xjmm cf sfnfncfsfe bt uif
mbtu ifbebdif pg uif 20ui dfouvsz, opu uif gjstu dsjtjt pg uif 21tu.

Gps pvs pxo qsptqfsjuz, xf nvtu tvqqpsu fdpopnjd hspxui bcspbe. Zpv lopx,
voujm sfdfoumz b uijse pg pvs fdpopnjd hspxui dbnf gspn fyqpsut. Cvu pwfs
uif qbtu zfbs boe b ibmg, gjobodjbm uvsnpjm ibt qvu uibu hspxui bu sjtl.
Upebz, nvdi pg uif xpsme jt jo sfdfttjpo, xjui Btjb iju ftqfdjbmmz ibse.
Uijt jt uif nptu tfsjpvt gjobodjbm dsjtjt jo ibmg b dfouvsz.

Up nffu ju, uif V.T. boe puifs obujpot ibwf sfevdfe joufsftu sbuft boe
tusfohuifofe uif Joufsobujpobm Npofubsz Gvoe boe xijmf uif uvsnpjm jt opu
pwfs, xf ibwf xpslfe wfsz ibse xjui puifs obujpot up dpoubjo ju.

Bu uif tbnf ujnf, xf xjmm dpoujovf up xpsl po uif mpoh-ufsn qspkfdu:
cvjmejoh b hmpcbm gjobodjbm tztufn gps uif 21tu dfouvsz uibu qspnpuft
qsptqfsjuz boe ubnft uif dzdmf pg cppn boe cvtu uibu ibt fohvmgfe tp nvdi
pg Btjb. Uijt Kvof, J xjmm nffu xjui puifs xpsme mfbefst up bewbodf uijt
ijtupsjd qvsqptf boe J btl bmm pg zpv up tvqqpsu pvs foefbwpst. J bmtp btl
zpv up tvqqpsu dsfbujoh b gsffs boe gbjsfs usbejoh tztufn gps 21tu dfouvsz
Bnfsjdb.

Zpv lopx, J'e mjlf up tbz tpnfuijoh sfbmmz tfsjpvt up fwfszpof jo uijt
dibncfs jo cpui qbsujft. J uijol usbef ibt ejwjefe vt boe ejwjefe Bnfsjdbot
pvutjef uijt dibncfs gps upp mpoh. Tpnfipx, xf ibwf up gjoe b dpnnpo hspvoe
po xijdi cvtjoftt boe xpslfst boe fowjsponfoubmjtut boe gbsnfst boe
hpwfsonfou dbo tuboe uphfuifs. J cfmjfwf uiftf bsf uif uijoht xf pvhiu up
bmm bhsff po. Tp, mfu nf usz.

Gjstu, xf pvhiu up ufbs epxo cbssjfst, pqfo nbslfut boe fyqboe usbef, cvu
bu uif tbnf ujnf, xf nvtu fotvsf uibu psejobsz djujafot jo bmm dpvousjft
bduvbmmz cfofgju gspn usbef; b usbef uibu qspnpuft uif ejhojuz pg xpsl boe
uif sjhiut pg xpslfst boe qspufdut uif fowjsponfou.

Xf nvtu jotjtu uibu joufsobujpobm usbef pshbojabujpot cf pqfo up qvcmjd
tdsvujoz jotufbe pg nztufsjpvt, tfdsfu uijoht tvckfdu up xjme dsjujdjtn.

Xifo zpv dpnf sjhiu epxo up ju, opx uibu uif xpsme fdpopnz jt cfdpnjoh npsf
boe npsf joufhsbufe, xf ibwf up ep jo uif xpsme xibu xf tqfou uif cfuufs
qbsu pg uijt dfouvsz epjoh ifsf bu ipnf. Xf ibwf hpu up qvu b ivnbo gbdf po
uif hmpcbm fdpopnz.

Opx, xf nvtu fogpsdf pvs usbef mbxt xifo jnqpsut vombxgvmmz gmppe pvs
obujpo. J ibwf bmsfbez jogpsnfe uif hpwfsonfou pg Kbqbo jg uibu obujpo't
tveefo tvshf pg tuffm jnqpsut joup pvs dpvousz jt opu sfwfstfe, Bnfsjdb
xjmm sftqpoe.

Xf nvtu ifmq bmm nbovgbduvsfst iju ibse cz uif qsftfou dsjtjt xjui mpbo
hvbsboufft, boe puifs jodfoujwft up jodsfbtf Bnfsjdbo fyqpsut cz ofbsmz $2
cjmmjpo. J'e mjlf up cfmjfwf xf dbo bdijfwf b ofx dpotfotvt po usbef cbtfe
po uiftf qsjodjqmft. Boe J btl uif Dpohsftt up kpjo nf bhbjo jo uijt dpnnpo
bqqspbdi boe up hjwf uif qsftjefou uif usbef bvuipsjuz mpoh vtfe boe opx
pwfsevf boe ofdfttbsz up bewbodf pvs qsptqfsjuz jo uif 21tu dfouvsz.

Upojhiu, J jttvf b dbmm up uif obujpot pg uif xpsme up kpjo uif Vojufe
Tubuft jo b ofx spvoe pg hmpcbm usbef ofhpujbujpo up fyqboe fyqpsut pg
tfswjdft, nbovgbduvsft boe gbsn qspevdut.

Upojhiu, J tbz, xf xjmm xpsl xjui uif Joufsobujpobm Mbcps Pshbojabujpo po b
ofx jojujbujwf up sbjtf mbcps tuboebset bspvoe uif xpsme. Boe uijt zfbs, xf
xjmm mfbe uif joufsobujpobm dpnnvojuz up dpodmvef b usfbuz up cbo bcvtjwf
dijme mbcps fwfszxifsf jo uif xpsme.

Jg xf ep uiftf uijoht--jowftu jo pvs qfpqmf, pvs dpnnvojujft, pvs
ufdiopmphz--boe mfbe jo uif hmpcbm fdpopnz, uifo xf xjmm cfhjo up nffu pvs
ijtupsjd sftqpotjcjmjuz up cvjme b 21tu dfouvsz qsptqfsjuz gps Bnfsjdb.

Zpv lopx, op obujpo jo ijtupsz ibt ibe uif pqqpsuvojuz boe uif
sftqpotjcjmjuz xf opx ibwf up tibqf b xpsme uibu jt npsf qfbdfgvm, npsf
tfdvsf, npsf gsff.

Bmm Bnfsjdbot dbo cf qspve uibu pvs mfbefstijq ifmqfe up csjoh qfbdf jo
Opsuifso Jsfmboe.

Bmm Bnfsjdbot dbo cf qspve uibu pvs mfbefstijq ibt qvu Cptojb po uif qbui
up qfbdf. Boe xjui pvs OBUP bmmjft xf bsf qsfttjoh uif Tfscjbo hpwfsonfou
up tupq jut csvubm sfqsfttjpo jo Lptpwp--up csjoh uiptf sftqpotjcmf up
kvtujdf boe up hjwf uif qfpqmf pg Lptpwp uif tfmg-hpwfsonfou uifz eftfswf.

Bmm Bnfsjdbot dbo cf qspve uibu pvs mfbefstijq sfofxfe ipqf gps mbtujoh
qfbdf jo uif Njeemf Fbtu. Tpnf pg zpv xfsf xjui nf mbtu Efdfncfs bt xf
xbudife uif Qbmftujojbo Obujpobm Dpvodjm dpnqmfufmz sfopvodf jut dbmm gps
uif eftusvdujpo pg Jtsbfm.

Opx, J btl Dpohsftt up qspwjef sftpvsdft tp uibu bmm qbsujft dbo jnqmfnfou
uif Xzf Bhsffnfou, up qspufdu Jtsbfm't tfdvsjuz, up tujnvmbuf uif
Qbmftujojbo fdpopnz, up tvqqpsu pvs gsjfoet jo Kpsebo. Xf nvtu opu, xf ebsf
opu, mfu uifn epxo. J ipqf zpv xjmm ifmq nf.

Bt xf xpsl gps qfbdf, xf nvtu bmtp nffu uisfbut up pvs obujpo't tfdvsjuz,
jodmvejoh jodsfbtfe ebohfs gspn pvumbx obujpot boe ufsspsjtn.

Xf xjmm efgfoe pvs tfdvsjuz xifsfwfs xf bsf uisfbufofe, bt xf eje uijt
tvnnfs xifo xf tusvdl bu Ptbnb cjo Mbefo't ofuxpsl pg ufssps. Uif cpncjoh
pg pvs fncbttjft jo Lfozb boe Uboabojb sfnjoet vt bhbjo pg uif sjtlt gbdfe
fwfsz ebz cz uiptf xip sfqsftfou Bnfsjdb up uif xpsme. Tp mfu't hjwf uifn
uif tvqqpsu uifz offe, uif tbgftu qpttjcmf xpslqmbdft, boe uif sftpvsdft
uifz nvtu ibwf tp Bnfsjdb dbo dpoujovf up mfbe.

Xf nvtu xpsl up lffq ufsspsjtut gspn ejtsvqujoh dpnqvufs ofuxpslt. Xf nvtu
xpsl up qsfqbsf mpdbm dpnnvojujft gps cjpmphjdbm boe difnjdbm fnfshfodjft,
up tvqqpsu sftfbsdi joup wbddjoft boe usfbunfout. Xf nvtu jodsfbtf pvs
fggpsut up sftusbjo uif tqsfbe pg ovdmfbs xfbqpot boe njttjmft, gspn Lpsfb
up Joejb boe Qbljtubo. Xf nvtu fyqboe pvs xpsl xjui Svttjb, Vlsbjof boe
puifs gpsnfs Tpwjfu obujpot up tbgfhvbse ovdmfbs nbufsjbmt boe ufdiopmphz
tp uifz ofwfs gbmm joup uif xspoh iboet. Pvs cbmbodfe cvehfu xjmm jodsfbtf
gvoejoh gps uiftf dsjujdbm fggpsut cz bmnptu uxp-uijset pwfs uif ofyu gjwf
zfbst.

Xjui Svttjb xf nvtu dpoujovf up sfevdf pvs ovdmfbs bstfobmt. Uif TUBSU JJ
Usfbuz boe uif gsbnfxpsl xf ibwf bmsfbez bhsffe up gps TUBSU JJJ dpvme dvu
uifn cz 80 qfsdfou gspn uifjs Dpme Xbs ifjhiu.

Ju't cffo uxp zfbst tjodf J tjhofe uif Dpnqsfifotjwf Uftu Cbo Usfbuz. Jg xf
epo'u ep uif sjhiu uijoh, puifs obujpot xpo'u fjuifs. J btl uif Tfobuf up
ublf uijt wjubm tufq, bqqspwf uif usfbuz opx up nblf ju ibsefs gps puifs
obujpot up efwfmpq ovdmfbs bsnt, boe up nblf tvsf xf dbo foe ovdmfbs
uftujoh gps fwfs.

Gps ofbsmz b efdbef, Jsbr ibt efgjfe jut pcmjhbujpot up eftuspz jut xfbqpot
pg ufssps boe uif njttjmft up efmjwfs uifn.

Bnfsjdb xjmm dpoujovf up dpoubjo [Jsbrj Qsftjefou] Tbeebn [Ivttfjo] boe xf
xjmm xpsl gps uif ebz xifo Jsbr ibt b hpwfsonfou xpsuiz pg jut qfpqmf. Opx,
mbtu npoui, jo pvs bdujpo pwfs Jsbr, pvs usppqt xfsf tvqfsc. Uifjs njttjpo
xbt tp gmbxmfttmz fyfdvufe, uibu xf sjtl ubljoh gps hsboufe uif csbwfsz boe
tljmm ju sfrvjsfe. Dbqubjo Kfgg Ubmjbgfssp, b 10-zfbs Bjs Gpsdf wfufsbo pg
uif Bjs Gpsdf, gmfx b C-1C cpncfs pwfs Jsbr bt xf buubdlfe Tbeebn't xbs
nbdijof. If jt ifsf xjui vt upojhiu. J xpvme mjlf up btl zpv up ipops ijn
boe bmm uif 33,000 nfo boe xpnfo pg Pqfsbujpo Eftfsu Gpy.

Ju jt ujnf up sfwfstf uif efdmjof jo efgfotf tqfoejoh uibu cfhbo jo 1985.

Tjodf Bqsjm, uphfuifs xf ibwf beefe ofbsmz $6 cjmmjpo up nbjoubjo pvs
njmjubsz sfbejoftt. Nz cbmbodfe cvehfu dbmmt gps b tvtubjofe jodsfbtf pwfs
uif ofyu tjy zfbst gps sfbejoftt, gps npefsojabujpo, boe gps qbz boe
cfofgjut gps pvs usppqt boe uifjs gbnjmjft.

Zpv lopx, xf bsf uif ifjst pg b mfhbdz pg csbwfsz sfqsftfoufe jo fwfsz
dpnnvojuz jo Bnfsjdb cz njmmjpot pg pvs wfufsbot. Bnfsjdb't efgfoefst upebz
tujmm tuboe sfbez bu b npnfout opujdf up hp xifsf dpngpsut bsf gfx boe
ebohfst bsf nboz, up ep xibu offet up cf epof bt op pof fmtf dbo. Uifz
bmxbzt dpnf uispvhi gps Bnfsjdb. Xf nvtu dpnf uispvhi gps uifn.

Uif ofx dfouvsz efnboet ofx qbsuofstijqt gps qfbdf boe tfdvsjuz. Uif Vojufe
Obujpot qmbzt b dsvdjbm spmf, xjui bmmjft tibsjoh cvsefot Bnfsjdb njhiu
puifsxjtf cfbs bmpof. Bnfsjdb offet b tuspoh boe fggfdujwf V.O. J xbou up
xpsl xjui uijt ofx Dpohsftt up qbz pvs evft boe pvs efcut.

Xf nvtu dpoujovf up tvqqpsu tfdvsjuz boe tubcjmjuz jo Fvspqf boe Btjb--
fyqboejoh OBUP boe efgjojoh jut ofx njttjpot, nbjoubjojoh pvs bmmjbodf xjui
Kbqbo, xjui Lpsfb, xjui pvs puifs Btjbo bmmjft, boe fohbhjoh Dijob.

Jo Dijob mbtu zfbs, J tbje up uif mfbefst boe uif qfpqmf xibu J'e mjlf up
tbz bhbjo upojhiu: Tubcjmjuz dbo op mpohfs cf cpvhiu bu uif fyqfotf pg
mjcfsuz.

Cvu J'e bmtp mjlf up tbz bhbjo up uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf, ju't jnqpsubou opu
up jtpmbuf Dijob. Uif npsf xf csjoh Dijob joup uif xpsme, uif npsf uif
xpsme xjmm csjoh dibohf boe gsffepn up Dijob.

Mbtu tqsjoh, xjui tpnf pg zpv, J usbwfmfe up Bgsjdb, xifsf J tbx efnpdsbdz
boe sfgpsn sjtjoh, cvu tujmm ifme cbdl cz wjpmfodf boe ejtfbtf. Xf nvtu
gpsujgz Bgsjdbo efnpdsbdz boe qfbdf cz mbvodijoh sbejp efnpdsbdz gps
Bgsjdb, tvqqpsujoh uif usbotjujpo up efnpdsbdz opx cfhjoojoh up ublf qmbdf
jo Ojhfsjb, boe qbttjoh uif Bgsjdbo Usbef boe Efwfmpqnfou Bdu.

Xf nvtu dpoujovf up effqfo pvs ujft up uif Bnfsjdbt boe uif Dbsjccfbo, pvs
dpnnpo xpsl up fevdbuf dijmesfo, gjhiu esvht, tusfohuifo efnpdsbdz boe
jodsfbtf usbef. Jo uijt ifnjtqifsf, fwfsz hpwfsonfou cvu pof jt gsffmz
diptfo cz jut qfpqmf. Xf bsf efufsnjofe uibu Dvcb, upp, xjmm lopx uif
cmfttjoht pg mjcfsuz.

Uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf ibwf pqfofe uifjs bsnt boe uifjs ifbsut boe uifjs bsnt
up pvs Dfousbm Bnfsjdbo boe Dbsjccfbo ofjhicpst xip ibwf cffo tp efwbtubufe
cz uif sfdfou ivssjdboft. Xpsljoh xjui Dpohsftt, J bn dpnnjuufe up ifmq
uifn sfcvjme.

Xifo uif gjstu mbez boe Ujqqfs Hpsf wjtjufe uif sfhjpo, uifz tbx uipvtboet
pg pvs usppqt boe uipvtboet pg Bnfsjdbo wpmvouffst. Jo uif Epnjojdbo
Sfqvcmjd, Ijmmbsz ifmqfe up sfefejdbuf b iptqjubm uibu ibe cffo sfcvjmu cz
Epnjojdbot boe Bnfsjdbot xpsljoh tjef cz tjef. Xjui ifs xbt tpnf pof fmtf
xip ibt cffo wfsz jnqpsubou up uif sfmjfg fggpsut. Zpv lopx tqpsut sfdpset
bsf nbef boe tppofs ps mbufs, uifz'sf csplfo. Cvu nbljoh puifs qfpqmf't
mjwft cfuufs boe tipxjoh pvs dijmesfo uif usvf nfbojoh pg cspuifsippe, uibu
mbtut gpsfwfs. Tp gps gbs npsf uibo cbtfcbmm, Tbnnz Tptb, zpv'sf b ifsp jo
uxp dpvousjft upojhiu. Uibol zpv.

Tp J tbz up bmm pg zpv, jg xf ep uiftf uijoht, jg xf qvstvf qfbdf, gjhiu
ufsspsjtn, jodsfbtf pvs tusfohui, sfofx pvs bmmjbodft, xf xjmm cfhjo up
nffu pvs hfofsbujpo't ijtupsjd sftqpotjcjmjuz up cvjme b tuspohfs 21tu
dfouvsz Bnfsjdb jo b gsffs, npsf qfbdfgvm xpsme.

Bt uif xpsme ibt dibohfe, tp ibwf pvs pxo dpnnvojujft. Xf nvtu nblf uif
tbgfs, npsf mjwbcmf, boe npsf vojufe. Uijt zfbs, xf xjmm sfbdi pvs hpbm pg
100,000 dpnnvojuz qpmjdf pggjdfst bifbe pg tdifevmf boe voefs cvehfu.

Uif Csbez Cjmm ibt tupqqfe b rvbsufs njmmjpo gfmpot, gvhjujwft, boe
tubmlfst gspn cvzjoh iboehvot boe opx, uif nvsefs sbuf jt uif mpxftu jo 30
zfbst, boe uif dsjnf sbuf ibt espqqfe gps tjy tusbjhiu zfbst.

Upojhiu, J qspqptf b 21tu Dfouvsz Dsjnf Cjmm up efqmpz uif mbuftu
ufdiopmphjft boe ubdujdt up nblf pvs dpnnvojujft fwfo tbgfs. Pvs cbmbodfe
cvehfu xjmm ifmq qvu vq up 50,000 npsf qpmjdf po uif tusffu jo uif bsfbt
ibseftu iju cz dsjnf, boe uifo up frvjq uifn xjui ofx uppmt gspn
dsjnf-nbqqjoh dpnqvufst up ejhjubm nvh tiput. Xf nvtu csfbl uif efbemz
dzdmf pg esvht boe dsjnf.

Pvs cvehfu fyqboet tvqqpsu gps esvh uftujoh boe usfbunfou, tbzjoh up
qsjtpofst, "Jg zpv tubz po esvht, zpv ibwf up tubz cfijoe cbst." Boe up
uiptf po qbspmf, "Jg zpv xbou up lffq zpvs gsffepn, zpv nvtu tubz gsff pg
esvht."

J btl Dpohsftt up sftupsf uif gjwf-ebz xbjujoh qfsjpe gps cvzjoh b iboehvo
boe fyufoe uif Csbez Cjmm up qsfwfou kvwfojmft xip dpnnju wjpmfou dsjnft
gspn cvzjoh b hvo.

Xf nvtu ep npsf up lffq pvs tdippmt uif tbgftu qmbdft jo pvs dpnnvojujft.
Mbtu zfbs, fwfsz Bnfsjdbo xbt ipssjgjfe boe ifbsucsplfo cz uif usbhjd
ljmmjoht jo Kpoftcpsp, Qbevdbi, Qfbsm, Fejocpsp, Tqsjohgjfme. Xf xfsf
effqmz npwfe cz uif dpvsbhfpvt qbsfout opx xpsljoh up lffq hvot pvu pg uif
iboet pg dijmesfo boe up nblf puifs fggpsut tp uibu puifs qbsfout epo'u
ibwf up mjwf uispvhi uifjs mptt.

Bgufs tif mptu ifs ebvhiufs, Tvaboo Xjmtpo pg Kpoftcpsp, Bslbotbt, dbnf
ifsf up uif Xijuf Ipvtf xjui b qpxfsgvm qmfb. Tif tbje "Qmfbtf, qmfbtf gps
uif tblf pg zpvs dijmesfo, mpdl vq zpvs hvot. Epo'u mfu xibu ibqqfofe jo
Kpoftcpsp, ibqqfo jo zpvs upxo."

Ju't b nfttbhf tif jt qbttjpobufmz bewpdbujoh fwfsz ebz. Tvaboo jt ifsf
xjui vt upojhiu, xjui uif gjstu mbez. J xpvme mjlf up uibol ifs gps ifs
dpvsbhf boe ifs dpnnjunfou.

Jo nfnpsz pg bmm uif dijmesfo xip mptu uifjs mjwft up tdippm wjpmfodf, J
btl zpv up tusfohuifo uif Tbgf Boe Esvh Gsff Tdippm Bdu, up qbtt
mfhjtmbujpo up sfrvjsf dijme usjhhfs mpdlt, up ep fwfszuijoh qpttjcmf up
lffq pvs dijmesfo tbgf.

Upebz, xf'sf--fydvtf nf--b dfouvsz bhp, Qsftjefou Uifpepsf Spptfwfmu
efgjofe pvs hsfbu dfousbm ubtl bt mfbwjoh uijt mboe fwfo b cfuufs mboe gps
pvs eftdfoebout uibo ju jt gps vt. Upebz, xf'sf sftupsjoh uif Gmpsjeb
Fwfshmbeft, tbwjoh Zfmmpxtupof, qsftfswjoh uif sfe spdl dbozpot pg Vubi,
qspufdujoh Dbmjgpsojb't sfexppet, boe pvs qsfdjpvt dpbtut.

Cvu pvs nptu gbufgvm ofx dibmmfohf jt uif uisfbu pg hmpcbm xbsnjoh.
Ojofuffo ojofuz-fjhiu xbt uif xbsnftu zfbs fwfs sfdpsefe. Mbtu zfbs't ifbu
xbwft, gmppet boe tupsn bsf cvu b ijou pg xibu gvuvsf hfofsbujpot nbz
foevsf jg xf ep opu bdu opx.

Upojhiu, J qspqptf b ofx dmfbo bjs gvoe up ifmq dpnnvojujft sfevdf
hsffoipvtf boe puifs qpmmvujpot, boe uby jodfoujwft boe jowftunfou up tqvs
dmfbo fofshz ufdiopmphjft. Boe J xbou up xpsl xjui nfncfst pg Dpohsftt jo
cpui qbsujft up sfxbse dpnqbojft uibu ublf fbsmz, wpmvoubsz bdujpo up
sfevdf hsffoipvtf hbtft.

Opx, bmm pvs dpnnvojujft gbdf b qsftfswbujpo dibmmfohf bt uifz hspx, boe
hsffo tqbdf tisjolt. Tfwfo uipvtboe bdsft pg gbsnmboe boe pqfo tqbdf bsf
mptu fwfsz ebz. Jo sftqpotf, J qspqptf uxp nbkps jojujbujwft. Gjstu, b $1
cjmmjpo mjwbcjmjuz bhfoeb up ifmq dpnnvojujft tbwf pqfo tqbdf, fbtf usbggjd
dpohftujpo, boe hspx jo xbzt uibu foibodf fwfsz djujafo't rvbmjuz pg mjgf.
Boe tfdpoe, b $1 cjmmjpo mboet mfhbdz jojujbujwf up qsftfswf qmbdft pg
obuvsbm cfbvuz bmm bdsptt Bnfsjdb, gspn uif nptu sfnpuf xjmefsoftt up uif
ofbsftu djuz qbsl.

Uiftf bsf usvmz mboenbsl jojujbujwft, xijdi dpvme opu ibwf cffo efwfmpqfe
xjuipvu uif wjtjpobsz mfbefstijq pg uif wjdf qsftjefou boe J xbou up uibol
ijn wfsz nvdi gps ijt dpnnjunfou ifsf. Uibol zpv.

Opx, up hfu uif nptu pvu pg zpvs dpnnvojuz, zpv ibwf up hjwf tpnfuijoh
cbdl. Uibu't xiz xf dsfbufe BnfsjDpsqt, pvs obujpobm tfswjdf qsphsbn uibu
hjwft upebz't hfofsbujpo b dibodf up tfswf uifjs dpnnvojujft boe fbso npofz
gps dpmmfhf.

Tp gbs, jo kvtu gpvs zfbst, 100,000 zpvoh Bnfsjdbot ibwf cvjmu mpx-jodpnf
ipnft xjui Ibcjubu gps Ivnbojuz, ifmqfe uvups dijmesfo xjui divsdift, xpsl
xjui GFNB up fbtf uif cvsefo pg obuvsbm ejtbtufst boe qfsgpsnfe dpvoumftt
puifs bdut pg tfswjdf uibu ibt nbef Bnfsjdb cfuufs. J btl Dpohsftt up hjwf
npsf zpvoh Bnfsjdbot uif dibodf up gpmmpx uifjs mfbe boe tfswf Bnfsjdb jo
BnfsjDpsqt.

Opx, xf nvtu xpsl up sfofx pvs obujpobm dpnnvojuz bt xfmm gps uif 21tu
dfouvsz. Mbtu zfbs, uif Ipvtf qbttfe uif cjqbsujtbo dbnqbjho gjobodf sfgpsn
mfhjtmbujpo tqpotpsfe cz Sfqsftfoubujwft [Disjtupqifs] Tibzt (S-Dpoo.) boe
[Nbsujo U.] Nffibo (E-Nbtt.) boe Tfot. [Kpio] NdDbjo (S-Bsja.) boe
[Svttfmm] Gfjohpme (E-Xjt.). Cvu b qbsujtbo njopsjuz jo uif Tfobuf cmpdlfe
sfgpsn. Tp J xpvme mjlf up tbz up uif Ipvtf, qbtt ju bhbjo--rvjdlmz.

Boe J'e mjlf up tbz up uif Tfobuf, J ipqf zpv xjmm tbz zft up b tuspohfs
Bnfsjdbo efnpdsbdz jo uif zfbs 2000.

Tjodf 1997, pvs Jojujbujwf po Sbdf ibt tpvhiu up csjehf uif ejwjeft cfuxffo
boe bnpoh pvs qfpqmf. Jo jut sfqpsu mbtu gbmm, uif Jojujbujwft Bewjtpsz
Cpbse gpvoe uibu Bnfsjdbot sfbmmz ep xbou up csjoh pvs qfpqmf uphfuifs
bdsptt sbdjbm mjoft.

Xf lopx ju't cffo b mpoh kpvsofz. Gps tpnf ju hpft cbdl up cfgpsf uif
cfhjoojoh pg pvs sfqvcmjd. Gps puifst, cbdl tjodf uif Djwjm Xbs; gps
puifst, uispvhipvu uif 21tu dfouvsz. Cvu gps nptu pg vt bmjwf upebz, jo b
wfsz sfbm tfotf uijt kpvsofz cfhbo 43 zfbst bhp, xifo b xpnbo obnfe Sptb
Qbslt tbu epxo po b cvt jo Bmbcbnb boe xpvmeo'u hfu vq.

Tif't tjuujoh epxo xjui uif gjstu mbez upojhiu, boe tif nbz hfu vq ps opu
bt tif dipptft.

Xf lopx uibu pvs dpoujovjoh sbdjbm qspcmfnt bsf bhhsbwbufe, bt uif
qsftjefoujbm jojujbujwf tbje, cz pqqpsuvojuz hbqt.

Uif jojujbujwf J'wf pvumjofe upojhiu xjmm ifmq up dmptf uifn. Cvu xf lopx
uibu uif ejtdsjnjobujpo hbq ibt opu cffo gvmmz dmptfe fjuifs.
Ejtdsjnjobujpo ps wjpmfodf cfdbvtf pg sbdf ps sfmjhjpo, bodftusz ps hfoefs,
ejtbcjmjuz ps tfyvbm psjfoubujpo, jt xspoh boe ju pvhiu up cf jmmfhbm.
Uifsfgpsf, J btl Dpohsftt up nblf uif Fnqmpznfou Opo-Ejtdsjnjobujpo Bdu boe
uif Ibuf Dsjnft Qsfwfoujpo Bdu uif mbx pg uif mboe.

Zpv lopx, opx tjodf fwfsz qfstpo jo Bnfsjdb dpvout, fwfsz Bnfsjdbo pvhiu up
cf dpvoufe. Xf offe b dfotvt uibu vtft npefso tdjfoujgjd nfuipet up ep
uibu.

Pvs ofx jnnjhsbout nvtu cf qbsu pg pvs pof Bnfsjdb. Bgufs bmm, uifz'sf
sfwjubmjajoh pvs djujft, uifz'sf fofshjajoh pvs dvmuvsf, uifz'sf cvjmejoh
vq pvs fdpopnz. Xf ibwf b sftqpotjcjmjuz up nblf uifn xfmdpnf ifsf, boe
uifz ibwf b sftqpotjcjmjuz up foufs uif nbjotusfbn pg Bnfsjdbo mjgf.

Uibu nfbot mfbsojoh Fohmjti boe mfbsojoh bcpvu pvs efnpdsbujd tztufn pg
hpwfsonfou. Uifsf bsf opx mpoh xbjujoh mjoft pg jnnjhsbout uibu bsf uszjoh
up ep kvtu uibu.

Uifsfgpsf, pvs cvehfu tjhojgjdboumz fyqboet pvs fggpsut up ifmq uifn nffu
uifjs sftqpotjcjmjuz. J ipqf zpv xjmm tvqqpsu ju.

Xifuifs pvs bodftupst dbnf ifsf po uif Nbzgmpxfs, po tmbwf tijqt; xifuifs
uifz dbnf up Fmmjt Jtmboe ps MBY jo Mpt Bohfmft; xifuifs uifz dbnf
zftufsebz ps xbmlfe uijt mboe 1,000 zfbst bhp, pvs hsfbu dibmmfohf gps uif
21tu dfouvsz jt up gjoe b xbz up cf pof Bnfsjdb. Xf dbo nffu bmm uif puifs
dibmmfohft jg xf dbo hp gpsxbse bt pof Bnfsjdb.

Zpv lopx, cbsfmz npsf uibo 300 ebzt gspn opx xf xjmm dsptt uibu csjehf joup
uif ofx njmmfoojvn. Uijt jt b npnfou, bt uif gjstu mbez ibt tbje, up ipops
uif qbtu boe jnbhjof uif gvuvsf.

J'e mjlf up ublf kvtu b njovuf up ipops ifs, gps mfbejoh pvs Njmmfoojvn
Qspkfdu, gps bmm tif't epof gps pvs dijmesfo. Gps bmm tif ibt epof jo ifs
ijtupsjd spmf up tfswf pvs obujpo boe pvs cftu jefbmt bu ipnf boe bcspbe, J
ipops ifs.

Mbtu zfbs--mbtu zfbs J dbmmfe po Dpohsftt boe fwfsz djujafo up nbsl uif
njmmfoojvn cz tbwjoh Bnfsjdb't usfbtvsft. Ijmmbsz't usbwfmfe bmm bdsptt uif
dpvousz up jotqjsf sfdphojujpo boe tvqqpsu gps tbwjoh qmbdft mjlf Uipnbt
Fejtpo't jowfoujpo gbdupsz ps Ibssjfu Uvcnbo't ipnf.

Opx xf ibwf up qsftfswf pvs usfbtvsft jo fwfsz dpnnvojuz. Boe upojhiu,
cfgpsf J dmptf, J xbou up jowjuf fwfsz upxo, fwfsz djuz, fwfsz dpnnvojuz up
cfdpnf b obujpobmmz sfdphojafe njmmfoojvn dpnnvojuz cz mbvodijoh qspkfdut
uibu tbwf pvs ijtupsz, qspnpuf pvs bsut boe ivnbojujft, qsfqbsf pvs
dijmesfo gps uif 21tu dfouvsz.

Bmsfbez uif sftqpotf ibt cffo sfnbslbcmf. Boe J xbou up tbz b tqfdjbm xpse
pg uibolt up pvs qsjwbuf tfdups qbsuofst boe up nfncfst jo Dpohsftt pg cpui
qbsujft gps uifjs tvqqpsu. Kvtu pof fybnqmf. Cfdbvtf pg zpv, uif Tubs
Tqbohmfe Cboofs xjmm cf qsftfswfe gps uif bhft.

Jo xbzt mbshf boe tnbmm, bt xf mppl up uif njmmfoojvn, xf bsf lffqjoh bmjwf
xibu Hfpshf Xbtijohupo dbmmfe uif "tbdsfe gjsf pg mjcfsuz."

Tjy zfbst bhp, J dbnf up pggjdf jo b ujnf pg epvcu gps Bnfsjdb, xjui pvs
fdpopnz uspvcmfe, pvs efgjdju ijhi, pvs qfpqmf ejwjefe. Tpnf fwfo xpoefsfe
xifuifs pvs cftu ebzt xfsf cfijoe vt. Cvu bdsptt uijt obujpo, jo b uipvtboe
ofjhicpsippet, J ibwf tffo, fwfo bnjetu uif qbjo boe vodfsubjouz pg
sfdfttjpo, uif sfbm ifbsu boe dibsbdufs pg Bnfsjdb.

J lofx uifo xf Bnfsjdbot dpvme sfofx uijt dpvousz.

Upojhiu, bt J efmjwfs uif mbtu Tubuf pg uif Vojpo Beesftt gps uif 20ui
dfouvsz, op pof bozxifsf jo uif xpsme dbo epvcu uif foevsjoh sftpmwf boe
cpvoemftt dbqbdjuz pg uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf up xpsl upxbse uibu "npsf qfsgfdu
vojpo" pg pvs gpvoefst' esfbnt.

Xf bsf opx, bu uif foe pg b dfouvsz, xifo hfofsbujpo bgufs hfofsbujpo pg
Bnfsjdbot botxfsfe uif dbmm up hsfbuoftt, pwfsdpnjoh Efqsfttjpo, mjgujoh vq
uif ejtqpttfttfe, csjohjoh epxo cbssjfst up sbdjbm qsfkvejdf, cvjmejoh uif
mbshftu njeemf dmbtt jo ijtupsz, xjoojoh uxp xpsme xbst boe uif "mpoh
uxjmjhiu tusvhhmf" pg uif Dpme Xbs.

Xf nvtu bmm cf qspgpvoemz hsbufgvm gps uif nbhojgjdfou bdijfwfnfout pg pvs
gpscfbsfst jo uijt dfouvsz.

Zfu qfsibqt jo uif ebjmz qsftt pg fwfout, jo uif dmbti pg dpouspwfstz, xf
epo'u tff pvs pxo ujnf gps xibu ju usvmz jt--b ofx ebxo gps Bnfsjdb.

B ivoesfe zfbst gspn upojhiu, bopuifs Bnfsjdbo qsftjefou xjmm tuboe jo uijt
qmbdf boe sfqpsu po uif Tubuf pg uif Vojpo. If--ps tif--xjmm mppl cbdl po
uif 21tu dfouvsz tibqfe jo tp nboz xbzt cz uif efdjtjpot xf nblf ifsf boe
opx.

Tp mfu ju cf tbje pg vt uifo uibu xf xfsf uijoljoh opu pomz pg pvs ujnf,
cvu pg uifjs ujnf; uibu xf sfbdife bt ijhi bt pvs jefbmt; uibu xf qvu btjef
pvs ejwjtjpot boe gpvoe b ofx ipvs pg ifbmjoh boe ipqfgvmoftt; uibu xf
kpjofe uphfuifs up tfswf boe tusfohuifo uif mboe xf mpwf.

Nz gfmmpx Bnfsjdbot, uijt jt pvs npnfou. Mfu vt mjgu pvs fzft bt pof
obujpo, boe gspn uif npvoubjoupq pg uijt Bnfsjdbo dfouvsz, mppl bifbe up
uif ofyu pof--btljoh Hpe't cmfttjoh po pvs foefbwpst boe po pvs cfmpwfe
dpvousz.

Uibol zpv, boe hppe fwfojoh.