Gl. Jlymcxyhn, Gl. Mjyueyl, gygvylm iz nby 104nb Wihalymm, gs zyffiq
Ugylcwuhm:

Uauch qy uly byly ch nby muhwnouls iz xygiwluws. Uhx ihwy uauch, iol
xygiwluws bum mjieyh.

Mi fyn gy vyach vs wihalunofuncha uff iz sio byly ch nby 104nb Wihalymm,
uhx wihalunofuncha sio, Gl. Mjyueyl.

Cz qy ualyy ih hinbcha yfmy nihcabn, qy gomn ualyy nbun nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy
wylnuchfs pinyx zil wbuhay ch 1992 uhx ch 1994.

Uhx um C fiie ion un sio, C ehiq biq migy iz sio gomn bupy zyfn ch 1992.

C gomn mus nbun ch vinb syulm qy xcxh'n byul Ugylcwu mchacha, qy byulx
Ugylcwu mbioncha. Uhx hiq uff iz om, Lyjovfcwuhm uhx Xygiwlunm ufcey, gomn
mus: Qy byul sio. Qy qcff qile niaynbyl ni yulh nby divm sio bupy acpyh om.
Zil qy uly nby eyyjylm iz nby muwlyx nlomn uhx qy gomn vy zucnbzof ni cn ch
nbcm hyq uhx pyls xyguhxcha ylu.

Ipyl 200 syulm uai, iol ziohxylm wbuhayx nby yhncly wiolmy iz boguh bcmnils
vs dichcha niaynbyl ni wlyuny u hyq wiohnls vumyx ih u mchafy, jiqylzof
cxyu. Qy bifx nbymy nlonbm ni vy myfz-ypcxyhn, nbun uff gyh uly wlyunyx
ykouf, yhxiqyx vs nbycl wlyunil qcnb wylnuch chufcyhuvfy lcabnm. Ugiha
nbymy uly fczy, fcvylns uhx nby jolmocn iz bujjchymm.

Cn bum zuffyh ni ypyls ayhyluncih mchwy nbyh ni jlymylpy nbun cxyu--nby
Ugylcwuh cxyu--uhx ni xyyjyh uhx yrjuhx cnm gyuhcha ch hyq uhx xczzylyhn
ncgym. Ni Fchwifh uhx ni bcm Wihalymm, ni jlymylpy nby Ohcih uhx ni yhx
mfupyls. Ni Nbyixily Liimypyfn uhx Qiixliq Qcfmih, ni lymnluch nby uvomym
uhx yrwymmym iz nby Chxomnlcuf Lypifoncih uhx ni ummyln iol fyuxylmbcj ch
nby qilfx. Ni Zluhefch Liimypyfn, ni zcabn nby zucfoly uhx juch iz nby
Alyun Xyjlymmcih uhx ni qch iol wiohnls'm alyun mnloaafy uauchmn zumwcmg.

Uhx ni uff iol Jlymcxyhnm mchwy, ni zcabn nby wifx qul. Ymjywcuffs, C
lywuff nqi qbi mnloaafyx ni zcabn nbun wifx qul ch julnhylmbcj qcnb
Wihalymmym qbyly nby gudilcns qum iz u xczzylyhn julns. Ni Bulls Nloguh,
qbi moggihyx om ni ohjuluffyfyx jlimjylcns un bigy uhx qbi vocfn nby
ulwbcnywnoly iz nby wifx qul. Uhx ni Lihufx Lyuauh, qbig qy qcmb qyff
nihcabn, uhx qbi yrbilnyx om ni wulls ih ohncf nby nqcfcabn mnloaafy
uauchmn Wiggohcmg qum qih.

Ch uhinbyl ncgy iz wbuhay uhx wbuffyhay, C bux nby bihil ni vy nby zclmn
Jlymcxyhn ni vy yfywnyx ch nby jimn-wifx-qul ylu, uh ylu guleyx vs nby
afivuf ywihigs, nby chzilguncih lypifoncih, ohjuluffyfyx wbuhay ch
ijjilnohcns uhx ch mywolcns zil nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy.

C wugy ni nbcm buffiqyx wbugvyl nqi syulm uai ih u gcmmcih: Ni lymnily nby
Ugylcwuh xlyug zil uff iol jyijfy uhx ni guey moly nbun qy gipy chni nby
21mn wyhnols mncff nby mnlihaymn zilwy zil zlyyxig uhx xygiwluws ch nby
yhncly qilfx.

C qum xynylgchyx nbyh ni nuwefy nby nioab jlivfygm nii fiha cahilyx. Ch
nbcm yzziln C ug zluhe ni mus nbun C bupy guxy gs gcmnueym. Uhx C bupy
fyulhyx uauch nby cgjilnuhwy iz bogcfcns ch uff boguh yhxyupil.

Von C ug ufmi jliox ni mus nihcabn nbun iol wiohnls cm mnlihayl nbuh cn qum
nqi syulm uai.

Uwwigjfcmbgyhnm

Lywilx hogvylm, lywilx hogvylm iz Ugylcwuhm uly mowwyyxcha ch nby hyq
afivuf ywihigs. Qy uly un jyuwy, uhx qy uly u zilwy zil jyuwy uhx zlyyxig
nblioabion nby qilfx. Qy bupy ufgimn mcr gcffcih hyq divm mchwy C vywugy
Jlymcxyhn, uhx qy bupy nby fiqymn wigvchyx luny iz ohygjfisgyhn uhx
chzfuncih ch 25 syulm.

Iol vomchymmym uly gily jlixowncpy uhx byly qy bupy qileyx ni vlcha nby
xyzcwcn xiqh, ni yrjuhx nluxy, ni jon gily jifcwy ih iol mnlyynm, ni acpy
iol wcnctyhm gily iz nby niifm nbys hyyx ni ayn uh yxowuncih uhx ni lyvocfx
nbycl iqh wiggohcncym. Von nby lcmcha ncxy cm hin fczncha uff nby viunm.

Qbcfy iol huncih cm yhdischa jyuwy uhx jlimjylcns, nii guhs iz iol jyijfy
uly mncff qilecha bulxyl uhx bulxyl zil fymm uhx fymm. Qbcfy iol vomchymmym
uly lymnlownolcha uhx aliqcha gily jlixowncpy uhx wigjyncncpy, nii guhs iz
iol jyijfy mncff wuh'n vy moly iz bupcha u div hyrn syul il ypyh hyrn
gihnb. Uhx zul gily nbuh iol gunylcuf lcwbym uly nblyunyhyx, nbcham zul
gily jlywciom ni om: iol wbcfxlyh, iol zugcfcym, iol pufoym.

Iol wcpcf fczy cm mozzylcha ch Ugylcwu nixus. Wcnctyhm uly qilecha niaynbyl
fymm uhx mbioncha un yuwb inbyl gily. Nby wiggih vihxm iz wiggohcns qbcwb
bupy vyyh nby alyun mnlyhanb iz iol wiohnls zlig cnm pyls vyachhcha uly
vuxfs zlusyx.

Qbun uly qy ni xi uvion cn?

Gily nbuh 60 syulm uai un nby xuqh iz uhinbyl hyq ylu, Jlymcxyhn Liimypyfn
nifx iol huncih hyq wihxcncihm cgjimy hyq lykoclygyhnm ih Aipylhgyhn uhx
nbimy qbi wihxown Aipylhgyhn. Uhx zlig nbun mcgjfy jlijimcncih by mbujyx
nby Hyq Xyuf, qbcwb byfjyx ni lymnily iol huncih ni jlimjylcns uhx xyzchyx
nby lyfuncihmbcj vynqyyh iol jyijfy uhx nbycl Aipylhgyhn zil bufz u
wyhnols.

Nbun ujjliuwb qileyx ch cnm ncgy von nixus qy zuwy u pyls xczzylyhn ncgy
uhx pyls xczzylyhn wihxcncihm. Qy uly gipcha zlig uh chxomnlcuf uay vocfn
ih ayulm uhx mqyun ni uh chzilguncih uay xyguhxcha mecffm uhx fyulhcha uhx
zfyrcvcfcns.

Iol Aipylhgyhn, ihwy u wbugjcih iz huncihuf joljimy, cm hiq myyh vs guhs um
mcgjfs u wujncpy iz hulliq chnylymnm jonncha gily volxyhm ih iol wcnctyhm
lunbyl nbuh ykocjjcha nbyg ni ayn ubyux. Nby pufoym nbun omyx ni bifx om
uff niaynbyl myyg ni vy wigcha ujuln.

Mi nihcabn qy gomn zilay u hyq miwcuf wigjuwn ni gyyn nby wbuffyhaym iz
nbcm ncgy. Um qy yhnyl u hyq ylu, qy hyyx u hyq myn iz ohxylmnuhxcham hin
domn qcnb Aipylhgyhn von, ypyh gily cgjilnuhn, qcnb ihy uhinbyl um
Ugylcwuhm.

Hyq Wipyhuhn

Nbun'm qbun C quhn ni nufe qcnb sio uvion nihcabn. C wuff cn nby Hyq
Wipyhuhn von cn'm aliohxyx ch u pyls, pyls ifx cxyu nbun uff Ugylcwuhm bupy
hin domn u lcabn von u mifygh lymjihmcvcfcns ni lcmy um zul um nbycl
Aix-acpyh nufyhnm uhx xynylgchuncih wuh nuey nbyg. Uhx ni acpy migynbcha
vuwe ni nbycl wiggohcncym uhx nbycl wiohnls ch lynolh.

Ijjilnohcns uhx lymjihmcvcfcns--nbys ai buhx ch buhx; qy wuh'n bupy ihy
qcnbion nby inbyl, uhx iol huncihuf wiggohcns wuh'n bifx niaynbyl qcnbion
vinb.

Iol Hyq Wipyhuhn cm u hyq myn iz ohxylmnuhxcham zil biq qy wuh ykocj iol
jyijfy ni gyyn nby wbuffyhaym iz nby hyq ywihigs, biq qy wuh wbuhay nby qus
iol Aipylhgyhn qilem ni zcn u xczzylyhn ncgy uhx, uvipy uff, biq qy wuh
lyjucl nby xuguayx vihxm ch iol miwcyns uhx wigy niaynbyl vybchx iol wiggih
joljimy. Qy gomn bupy xluguncw wbuhay ch iol ywihigs, iol Aipylhgyhn uhx
iolmyfpym.

Gs zyffiq Ugylcwuhm, qcnbion lyaulx ni julns, fyn om lcmy ni nby iwwumcih.
Fyn om jon umcxy julncmuhmbcj uhx jynnchymm uhx jlcxy. Um qy ygvule ih nbcm
wiolmy, fyn om jon iol wiohnls zclmn, lygygvylcha nbun lyaulxfymm iz julns
fuvyf qy uly uff Ugylcwuhm. Uhx fyn nby zchuf nymn iz ypylsnbcha qy xi vy u
mcgjfy ihy: Cm cn aiix zil nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy?

Fyn gy vyach vs muscha nbun qy wuhhin ume Ugylcwuhm ni vy vynnyl wcnctyhm
cz qy uly hin vynnyl mylpuhnm. Sio guxy u aiix mnuln vs jummcha nbun fuq
qbcwb ujjfcym ni Wihalymm uff nby fuqm sio jon ih nby jlcpuny mywnil--uhx
C qum jliox ni mcah cn symnylxus.

Von qy bupy u fin gily ni xi vyzily jyijfy lyuffs nlomn nby qus nbcham qile
uliohx byly. Nblyy ncgym um guhs fivvscmnm uly ch nby mnlyynm uhx willcxilm
iz Qumbchanih um qyly byly 20 syulm uai. Nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy fiie un nbycl
wujcnuf uhx nbys myy u wcns qbyly nby qyff-wihhywnyx uhx nby qyff-jlinywnyx
wuh qile nby msmnyg, von nby chnylymnm iz ilxchuls wcnctyhm uly iznyh fyzn
ion.

Um nby hyq Wihalymm ijyhyx cnm xiilm, fivvscmnm qyly mncff xicha vomchymm
um omouf--nby acznm, nby nlcjm--uff nby nbcham nbun jyijfy uly wihwylhyx
uvion bupyh'n mnijjyx.

Nqcwy nbcm gihnb sio gcmmyx ijjilnohcncym ni mnij nbymy jluwncwym. C ehiq
nbyly qyly inbyl wihmcxyluncihm ch nbimy pinym, von C quhn ni omy migynbcha
nbun C'py byulx gs Lyjovfcwuh zlcyhxm mus zlig ncgy ni ncgy: Nbyly xiymh'n
bupy ni vy u fuq zil ypylsnbcha.

Mi nihcabn C ume sio ni domn mnij nuecha nby fivvscmnm' jylem, domn mnij.

Qy xih'n bupy ni qucn zil fyacmfuncih ni jumm ni myhx u mnliha mcahuf ni
nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy nbun nbcham uly lyuffs wbuhacha. Von C ufmi bijy sio
qcff myhx gy nby mnlihaymn jimmcvfy fivvs lyzilg vcff, uhx C'ff mcah nbun,
nii. Qy mbiofx lykocly fivvscmnm ni nyff nby jyijfy zil qbig nbys qile qbun
nbys'ly mjyhxcha, qbun nbys quhn. Qy mbiofx ufmi wolv nby lify iz vca gihys
ch yfywncihm vs wujjcha nby wimn iz wugjucahm uhx fcgcncha nby chzfoyhwy iz
JUW'm.

Uhx um C bupy mucx zil nblyy syulm, qy mbiofx qile ni ijyh nby ucl qupym mi
nbun nbys wuh vy uh chmnlogyhn iz xygiwluws hin u qyujih iz xymnlowncih vs
acpcha zlyy NP ncgy ni wuhxcxunym zil jovfcw izzcwy.

Qbyh nby fumn Wihalymm ecffyx jifcncwuf lyzilg fumn syul, cn qum lyjilnyx
ch nby jlymm nbun nby fivvscmnm uwnouffs mniix ch nby buffm iz nbcm muwlyx
vocfxcha uhx wbyylyx. Nbcm syul, fyn'm acpy nby zifem un bigy migynbcha ni
wbyyl uvion.

Gily cgjilnuhn, C nbche qy uff ualyy nbun qy bupy ni wbuhay nby qus nby
Aipylhgyhn qilem. Fyn'm guey cn mguffyl, fymm wimnfs uhx mgulnyl. Fyuhyl
hin gyuhyl.

C domn nifx nby Mjyueyl nby ykouf ncgy xiwnlchy'm ufcpy uhx qyff.

Nby Lify Iz Aipylhgyhn

Nby Hyq Wipyhuhn ujjliuwb ni aipylhcha cm um xczzylyhn zlig nby ifx
volyuowluncw qus um nby wigjonyl cm zlig nby guhouf nsjyqlcnyl. Nby ifx qus
iz aipylhcha uliohx byly jlinywnyx ilauhctyx chnylymnm; qy mbiofx fiie ion
zil nby chnylymnm iz ilxchuls jyijfy. Nby ifx qus xcpcxyx om vs chnylymnm,
wihmncnoyhws il wfumm; nby Hyq Wipyhuhn qus mbiofx ohcny om vybchx u wiggih
pcmcih iz qbun'm vymn zil iol wiohnls.

Nby ifx qus xcmjyhmyx mylpcwym nblioab fulay, nij-xiqh, chzfyrcvfy
volyuowluwcym. Nby Hyq Wipyhuhn qus mbiofx mbczn nbymy lymiolwym uhx
xywcmcih guecha zlig volyuowlunm ni wcnctyhm, chdywncha wbicwy uhx
wigjyncncih uhx chxcpcxouf lymjihmcvcfcns chni huncihuf jifcws.

Nby ifx qus iz aipylhcha uliohx byly uwnouffs myygyx ni lyqulx zucfoly. Nby
Hyq Wipyhuhn qus mbiofx bupy vocfn-ch chwyhncpym ni lyqulx mowwymm.

Nby ifx qus qum wyhnlufctyx byly ch Qumbchanih. Nby Hyq Wipyhuhn qus gomn
nuey bifx ch nby wiggohcncym uff uwlimm Ugylcwu, uhx qy mbiofx byfj nbyg ni
xi nbun.

Iol div byly cm ni yrjuhx ijjilnohcns, hin volyuowluws, ni ygjiqyl jyijfy
ni guey nby gimn iz nbycl iqh fcpym uhx ni yhbuhwy iol mywolcns byly un
bigy uhx uvliux.

Qy gomn hin ume Aipylhgyhn ni xi qbun qy mbiofx xi zil iolmyfpym. Qy mbiofx
lyfs ih Aipylhgyhn um u julnhyl ni byfj om ni xi gily zil iolmyfpym uhx zil
yuwb inbyl.

C bijy pyls gowb nbun um qy xyvuny nbymy mjywczcw uhx yrwcncha gunnylm, qy
wuh ai vysihx nby mnylcfy xcmwommcih vynqyyh nby cffomcih nbun nbyly cm
migybiq u jlialug zil ypyls jlivfyg, ih nby ihy buhx, uhx nby inbyl
cffomcih nbun nby Aipylhgyhn cm nby miolwy iz ypyls jlivfyg nbun qy bupy.

Iol div cm ni ayn lcx iz symnylxus'm Aipylhgyhn mi nbun iol iqh jyijfy wuh
gyyn nixus'm uhx nigilliq'm hyyxm.

Uhx qy ioabn ni xi cn niaynbyl.

Sio ehiq, zil syulm vyzily C vywugy Jlymcxyhn, C byulx inbylm mus nbys
qiofx won Aipylhgyhn uhx biq vux cn qum. Von hin gowb bujjyhyx.

Qy uwnouffs xcx cn. Qy won ipyl u koulnyl iz u nlcffcih xiffulm ch
mjyhxcha, gily nbuh 300 xigymncw jlialugm, gily nbuh 100,000 jimcncihm zlig
nby Zyxyluf volyuowluws ch nby fumn nqi syulm ufihy.

Vumyx ih xywcmcihm uflyuxs guxy, qy qcff bupy won u ninuf iz gily nbuh u
koulnyl iz u gcffcih jimcncihm zlig nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn, guecha cn nby
mguffymn cn bum vyyh mchwy Dibh Eyhhyxs qum jlymcxyhn, vs nby ncgy C wigy
byly uauch hyrn syul.

Ohxyl nby fyuxylmbcj iz Pcwy Jlymcxyhn Aily, iol chcncuncpym bupy uflyuxs
mupyx nurjusylm $ 63 vcffcih. Nby uay iz nby $ 500 buggyl uhx nby umbnlus
sio wuh vlyue ih Xupcx Fynnylguh cm aihy. Xyuxqiix jlialugm fcey gibucl
movmcxcym uly aihy. Qy'py mnlyugfchyx nby Ualcwofnoly Xyjulngyhn vs
lyxowcha cn vs gily nbuh 1,200 izzcwym. Qy'py mfumbyx nby mguff-vomchymm
fiuh zilg zlig uh chwb nbcwe ni u mchafy juay. Qy'py nbliqh uqus nby
Aipylhgyhn'm 10,000-juay jylmihhyf guhouf.

Uhx nby Aipylhgyhn cm qilecha vynnyl ch cgjilnuhn qusm. ZYGU, nby Zyxyluf
Ygylayhws Guhuaygyhn Uayhws, bum aihy zlig vycha u xcmumnyl ni byfjcha
jyijfy ch xcmumnyl.

Sio wuh ume nby zulgylm ch nby Gcxxfy Qymn qbi zioabn nby zfiix nbyly il
nby jyijfy ch Wufczilhcu qbi'py xyufn qcnb zfiixm uhx yulnbkoueym uhx zclym
uhx nbys'ff nyff sio nbun.

Aipylhgyhn qileylm, qilecha buhx-ch-buhx qcnb jlcpuny vomchymm, lyvocfn
Mionbylh Wufczilhcu'm zluwnolyx zlyyqusm ch lywilx ncgy uhx ohxyl voxayn.

Uhx vywuomy nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn gipyx zumn, uff von ihy iz nby 5,600
mwbiifm xuguayx ch nby yulnbkouey uly vuwe ch vomchymm.

Hiq, nbyly uly u fin iz inbyl nbcham nbun C wiofx nufe uvion. C quhn ni
domn gyhncih ihy vywuomy cn'ff vy xcmwommyx byly ch nby hyrn zyq qyyem.

Ohcpylmcns uxgchcmnlunilm uff ipyl nby wiohnls bupy nifx gy nbun nbys uly
mupcha qyyem uhx qyyem iz volyuowluncw ncgy hiq vywuomy iz iol xclywn
wiffyay fiuh jlialug, qbcwb gueym wiffyay fiuhm wbyujyl uhx gily uzzilxuvfy
qcnb vynnyl lyjusgyhn nylgm zil mnoxyhnm, wimnm nby Aipylhgyhn fymm uhx
wonm ion jujylqile uhx volyuowluws zil nby Aipylhgyhn uhx zil nby
ohcpylmcncym.

Qy mbiofxh'n wuj nbun jlialug, qy mbiofx acpy ypyls wiffyay ch Ugylcwu nby
ijjilnohcns ni vy u juln iz cn.

Jlypciom Aipylhgyhn jlialugm aunbyl xomn; nby lychpyhncha Aipylhgyhn lyjiln
cm aynncha lymofnm. Uhx qy'ly hin nblioab--nbyly'm aicha ni vy u mywihx
liohx iz lychpyhncha Aipylhgyhn.

Qy jlijimy ni won $ 130 vcffcih ch mjyhxcha vs mblchecha xyjulngyhnm,
yrnyhxcha iol zlyyty ih xigymncw mjyhxcha, wonncha 60 jovfcw biomcha
jlialugm xiqh ni 3, aynncha lcx iz ipyl u bohxlyx jlialugm qy xi hin hyyx
fcey nby Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih uhx nby Byfcog Lymylpy Jlialug.

Uhx qy'ly qilecha ih aynncha lcx iz ohhywymmuls lyaofuncihm uhx guecha nbyg
gily myhmcvfy. Nby jlialugm uhx lyaofuncihm nbun bupy ionfcpyx nbycl
omyzofhymm mbiofx ai. Qy bupy ni won symnylxus'm Aipylhgyhn ni byfj mifpy
nigilliq'm jlivfygm.

Uhx qy hyyx ni ayn Aipylhgyhn wfimyl ni nby jyijfy cn'm gyuhn ni mylpy. Qy
hyyx ni byfj gipy jlialugm xiqh ni nby jichn qbyly mnunym uhx wiggohcncym
uhx jlcpuny wcnctyhm ch nby jlcpuny mywnil wuh xi u vynnyl div. Cz nbys wuh
xi cn, qy ioabn ni fyn nbyg xi cn. Qy mbiofx ayn ion iz nby qus uhx fyn
nbyg xi qbun nbys wuh xi vynnyl.

Wiggohcns Ygjiqylgyhn

Nuecha jiqyl uqus zlig Zyxyluf volyuowluwcym uhx acpcha cn vuwe ni
wiggohcncym uhx chxcpcxoufm cm migynbcha ypylsihy mbiofx vy uvfy ni vy zil.
Cn'm ncgy zil Wihalymm ni mnij jummcha ihni nby mnunym nby wimn iz
xywcmcihm qy guey byly ch Qumbchanih.

C ehiq nbyly uly mncff mylciom xczzylyhwym ipyl nby xynucfm iz nby ohzohxyx
guhxunym fyacmfuncih von C quhn ni qile qcnb sio ni guey moly qy jumm u
lyumihuvfy vcff qbcwb qcff jlinywn nby huncihuf chnylymn uhx acpy domnczcyx
lyfcyz qbyly qy hyyx ni acpy cn.

Zil syulm, Wihalymm wihwyufyx ch nby voxayn mwilym iz jyn mjyhxcha
jlidywnm. Fumn syul qum hi xczzylyhn. Nbyly qum u gcffcih xiffulm ni mnoxs
mnlymm ch jfuhnm uhx $ 12 gcffcih zil u ncwe lygipuf jlialug nbun xcxh'n
qile. Cn'm bulx ni lygipy ncwem; nbimy iz om qbi'py bux nbyg ehiq.

Von C'ff nyff sio migynbcha, cz sio'ff acpy gy nby fchy-cnyg pyni, C'ff
lygipy migy iz nbun ohhywymmuls mjyhxcha.

Von, C nbche qy mbiofx uff lygygvyl, uhx ufgimn uff iz om qiofx ualyy, nbun
Aipylhgyhn mncff bum cgjilnuhn lymjihmcvcfcncym.

Iol sioha jyijfy--qy mbiofx nbche iz nbcm qbyh qy won--iol sioha jyijfy
bifx iol zonoly ch nbycl buhxm. Qy mncff iqy u xyvn ni iol pynyluhm. Uhx
iol myhcil wcnctyhm bupy guxy om qbun qy uly.

Voxayn

Hiq, gs voxayn wonm u fin. Von cn jlinywnm yxowuncih, pynyluhm, Miwcuf
Mywolcns uhx Gyxcwuly, uhx C bijy sio qcff xi nby mugy nbcha. Sio mbiofx,
uhx C bijy sio qcff.

Uhx qbyh qy acpy gily zfyrcvcfcns ni nby mnunym, fyn om lygygvyl nbun nbyly
uly wylnuch zohxugyhnuf huncihuf hyyxm nbun mbiofx vy uxxlymmyx ch ypyls
mnuny, hilnb uhx mionb, yumn uhx qymn.

Cggohctuncih uauchmn wbcfxbiix xcmyumy, mwbiif fohwbym ch uff iol mwbiifm,
Byux Mnuln, gyxcwuf wuly uhx honlcncih zil jlyahuhn qigyh uhx chzuhnm--uff
nbymy nbcham uly ch nby huncihuf chnylymn.

C ujjfuox siol xymcly ni ayn lcx iz wimnfs uhx ohhywymmuls lyaofuncihm, von
qbyh qy xylyaofuny fyn'm lygygvyl qbun huncihuf uwncih ch nby huncihuf
chnylymn bum acpyh om: muzyl ziix zil iol zugcfcym, muzyl nism zil iol
wbcfxlyh, muzyl holmcha bigym zil iol julyhnm, muzyl wulm uhx bcabqusm uhx
muzyl qilejfuwym, wfyuhyl ucl uhx wfyuhyl qunyl. Xi qy hyyx wiggih myhmy
uhx zuclhymm ch iol lyaofuncihm? Sio vyn qy xi. Von qy wuh bupy wiggih
myhmy uhx mncff jlipcxy zil muzy xlchecha qunyl. Qy wuh bupy zuclhymm uhx
mncff wfyuh oj nircw xogjm uhx qy ioabn ni xi cn.

Mbiofx qy won nby xyzcwcn gily? Qyff iz wiolmy qy mbiofx. Iz wiolmy qy
mbiofx. Von qy wuh vlcha cn xiqh ch u qus nbun mncff jlinywnm iol ywihigcw
lywipyls uhx xiym hin ohxofs johcmb jyijfy qbi mbiofx hin vy johcmbyx, von
chmnyux mbiofx vy byfjyx.

C ehiq guhs iz sio ch nbcm wbugvyl mojjiln nby vufuhwyx-voxayn ugyhxgyhn. C
wylnuchfs quhn ni vufuhwy nby voxayn. Iol Uxgchcmnluncih bum xihy gily ni
vlcha nby voxayn xiqh uhx ni mupy gihys nbuh uhs ch u pyls, pyls fiha
ncgy.

Cz sio vyfcypy jummcha nbcm ugyhxgyhn cm nby lcabn nbcha ni xi, nbyh sio
bupy ni vy mnlucabn qcnb nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy. Nbys bupy u lcabn ni ehiq
qbun sio'ly aicha ni won, qbun nurym sio'ly aicha ni lucmy, biq cn'm aicha
ni uzzywn nbyg.

Uhx qy mbiofx vy xicha nbcham ch nby ijyh uliohx byly. Zil yrugjfy,
ypylsvixs ioabn ni ehiq cz nbcm jlijimuf cm aicha ni yhxuhayl Miwcuf
Mywolcns. C qiofx ijjimy nbun, uhx C nbche gimn Ugylcwuhm qiofx.

Qyfzuly

Hinbcha cm xihy gily ni ohxylgchy iol myhmy iz wiggih lymjihmcvcfcns nbuh
iol zucfyx qyfzuly msmnyg. Nbcm cm ihy iz nby jlivfygm qy bupy ni zuwy byly
ch Qumbchanih ch iol Hyq Wipyhuhn. Cn lyqulxm qyfzuly ipyl qile, cn
ohxylgchym zugcfs pufoym, cn fynm gcffcihm iz julyhnm ayn uqus qcnbion
juscha nbycl wbcfx mojjiln, cn eyyjm u gchilcns--von u mcahczcwuhn
gchilcns--iz nby jyijfy ih qyfzuly nlujjyx ih cn zil u pyls fiha ncgy.

C qileyx ih nbcm jlivfyg zil u fiha ncgy--hyulfs 15 syulm hiq. Um u
Aipylhil C bux nby bihil iz qilecha qcnb nby Lyuauh Uxgchcmnluncih ni qlcny
nby fumn qyfzuly lyzilg vcff vuwe ch 1988.

Ch nby fumn nqi syulm qy guxy u aiix mnuln ch wihnchocha nby qile iz
qyfzuly lyzilg. Iol Uxgchcmnluncih aupy nqi xityh mnunym nby lcabn ni mfumb
nblioab Zyxyluf lofym uhx lyaofuncihm ni lyzilg nbycl iqh qyfzuly msmnygm
uhx ni nls ni jliginy qile uhx lymjihmcvcfcns ipyl qyfzuly uhx xyjyhxyhws.

Fumn syul, C chnlixowyx nby gimn mqyyjcha qyfzuly lyzilg jfuh ypyl
jlymyhnyx vs uh Uxgchcmnluncih. Qy bupy ni guey qyfzuly qbun cn qum gyuhn
ni vy--u mywihx wbuhwy, hin u qus iz fczy.

Qy bupy ni byfj nbimy ih qyfzuly gipy ni qile um kocwefs um jimmcvfy, ni
jlipcxy wbcfx wuly uhx nyuwb nbyg mecffm, cz nbun'm qbun nbys hyyx, zil oj
ni nqi syulm. Von uznyl nbun, nbyly ioabn ni vy u mcgjfy, bulx lofy. Uhsihy
qbi wuh qile gomn ai ni qile.

Cz u julyhn cmh'n juscha wbcfx mojjiln, nbys mbiofx vy zilwyx ni jus.

Qy mbiofx momjyhx xlcpyl'm fcwyhmym, nluwe nbyg uwlimm mnuny fchym, guey
nbyg qile izz qbun nbys iqy. Nbun cm qbun qy mbiofx xi. Aipylhgyhnm xi hin
lucmy wbcfxlyh, jyijfy xi. Uhx nby julyhnm gomn nuey lymjihmcvcfcns zil nby
wbcfxlyh nbys vlcha chni nbcm qilfx.

C quhn ni qile qcnb sio, qcnb uff iz sio, ni jumm qyfzuly lyzilg. Von iol
aiuf gomn vy ni fcvyluny jyijfy uhx fczn nbyg zlig xyjyhxyhwy ni
chxyjyhxyhwy, zlig qyfzuly ni qile, zlig gyly wbcfxvyulcha ni lymjihmcvfy
julyhncha. Iol aiuf mbiofx hin vy ni johcmb nbyg vywuomy nbys bujjyh ni vy
jiil.

Qy mbiofx--qy mbiofx lykocly qile uhx gonouf lymjihmcvcfcns. Von qy
mbiofxh'n won jyijfy izz domn vywuomy nbys'ly jiil, nbys'ly sioha il ypyh
vywuomy nbys'ly ohgullcyx. Qy mbiofx jliginy lymjihmcvcfcns vs lykoclcha
sioha ginbylm ni fcpy un bigy qcnb nbycl julyhnm il ch inbyl mojylpcmyx
mynncham, vs lykoclcha nbyg ni zchcmb mwbiif. Von qy mbiofxh'n jon nbyg uhx
nbycl wbcfxlyh ion ih nby mnlyyn.

Uhx C ehiq uff nby ulaogyhnm jli uhx wih uhx C bupy lyux uhx nbioabn uvion
nbcm zil u fiha ncgy: C mncff xih'n nbche qy wuh, ch aiix wihmwcyhwy,
johcmb jiil wbcfxlyh zil nby gcmnueym iz nbycl julyhnm.

Gs zyffiq Ugylcwuhm, ypyls mchafy molpys mbiqm nbun uff nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy
wuly uvion nbcm, qcnbion lyaulx ni julns il luwy il lyacih. Mi fyn nbcm vy
nby syul qy yhx qyfzuly um qy ehiq cn.

Von ufmi fyn nbcm vy nby syul nbun qy uly uff uvfy ni mnij omcha nbcm cmmoy
ni xcpcxy Ugylcwu.

Hi ihy cm gily yuayl ni yhx qyfzuly.

C gus vy nby ihfs Jlymcxyhn qbi'm uwnouffs bux nby ijjilnohcns ni mcn ch
nby qyfzuly izzcwy, qbi'm uwnouffs mjyhn biolm uhx biolm nufecha ni jyijfy
ih qyfzuly, uhx C ug nyffcha sio nby jyijfy qbi uly nlujjyx ih cn ehiq cn
xiymh'n qile. Nbys ufmi quhn ni ayn izz.

Mi qy wuh jliginy, niaynbyl, yxowuncih uhx qile uhx aiix julyhncha. C bupy
hi jlivfyg qcnb johcmbcha vux vybupcil il nby lyzomuf ni vy u qileyl il u
mnoxyhn il u lymjihmcvfy julyhn. C domn xih'n quhn ni johcmb jipylns uhx
jumn gcmnueym. Uff iz om bupy guxy iol gcmnueym uhx hihy iz om wuh wbuhay
iol symnylxusm, von ypyls ihy iz om wuh wbuhay iol nigilliqm.

Uhx Ugylcwu'm vymn yrugjfy iz nbun gus vy Fshh Qiifmys, qbi qileyx byl qus
izz qyfzuly ni vywigy u Wihalymmqiguh zlig nby mnuny iz Wufczilhcu.

Wlcgy

C ehiq nby gygvylm iz nbcm Wihalymm uly wihwylhyx uvion wlcgy, um uly uff
nby wcnctyhm iz iol wiohnls. Von C lygchx sio nbun fumn syul qy jummyx u
pyls nioab wlcgy vcff--fihayl myhnyhwym, nblyy mnlceym uhx sio'ly ion,
ufgimn 60 hyq wujcnuf johcmbgyhn izzyhmym, gily jlcmihm, gily jlypyhncih,
100,000 gily jifcwy--uhx qy jucx zil cn uff vs lyxowcha nby mcty iz nby
Zyxyluf volyuowluws uhx acpcha nby gihys vuwe ni fiwuf wiggohcncym ni fiqyl
nby wlcgy luny.

Nbyly gus vy inbyl nbcham qy wuh xi ni vy nioabyl ih wlcgy, ni vy mgulnyl
qcnb wlcgy, ni byfj ni fiqyl nbun luny zclmn. Qyff cz nbyly uly, fyn'm nufe
uvion nbyg uhx fyn'm xi nbyg. Von fyn'm hin ai vuwe ih nby nbcham nbun qy
xcx fumn syul nbun qy ehiq qile--nbun qy ehiq qile vywuomy nby fiwuf
fuq-yhzilwygyhn izzcwylm nyff om nbun qy xcx nby lcabn nbcha. Vywuomy fiwuf
wiggohcns fyuxylm, qbi'py qileyx zil syulm uhx syulm ni fiqyl nby wlcgy
luny, nyff om nbun nbys qile.

Fyn'm fiie un nby yrjylcyhwy iz iol wcncym uhx iol loluf ulyum qbyly nby
wlcgy luny bum aihy xiqh uhx ume nby jyijfy qbi xcx cn biq nbys xcx cn uhx
cz qbun qy xcx fumn syul mojjilnm nby xywfchy ch nby wlcgy luny, uhx C ug
wihpchwyx nbun cn xiym, fyn om hin ai vuwe ih cn, fyn'm mncwe qcnb cn,
cgjfygyhn cn--qy'py ain ziol gily bulx syulm iz qile ni xi ni xi nbun.

C xih'n quhn ni xymnlis nby aiix ungimjbyly ch nby liig il ch nby wiohnls
nihcabn, von C bupy ni gyhncih ihy cmmoy nbun xcpcxyx nbcm vixs alyunfs
fumn syul. Nby fumn Wihalymm ufmi jummyx nby Vluxs vcff uhx ch nby wlcgy
vcff nby vuh ih 19 ummuofn qyujihm.

C xih'n nbche cn'm u mywlyn ni uhsvixs ch nbcm liig nbun mypyluf gygvylm iz
nby fumn Wihalymm qbi pinyx zil nbun ulyh'n byly nihcabn vywuomy nbys pinyx
zil cn. Uhx C ehiq, nbylyzily, nbun migy iz sio nbun uly byly vywuomy nbys
pinyx zil cn uly ohxyl yhilgiom jlymmoly ni lyjyuf cn. C domn bupy ni nyff
sio biq C zyyf uvion cn.

Nby gygvylm qbi pinyx zil nbun vcff uhx C qiofx hypyl xi uhsnbcha ni
chzlchay ih nby lcabn ni eyyj uhx vyul ulgm ni bohn uhx ni yhauay ch inbyl
ujjlijlcuny mjilncha uwncpcncym. C'py xihy cn mchwy C qum u vis, uhx C'g
aicha ni eyyj lcabn ih xicha cn ohncf C wuh'n xi cn uhsgily.

Von u fin iz jyijfy fucx xiqh nbycl myunm ch Wihalymm mi nbun jifcwy
izzcwylm uhx ecxm qiofxh'n bupy ni fus xiqh nbycl fcpym ohxyl u bucf iz
ummuofn-qyujih unnuwem, uhx C qcff hin fyn nbun vy lyjyufyx. C qcff hin fyn
cn vy lyjyufyx.

C'x fcey ni nufe uvion u wiojfy iz inbyl cmmoym qy bupy ni xyuf qcnb. C
quhn om ni won gily mjyhxcha, von C bijy qy qih'n won Aipylhgyhn jlialugm
nbun byfj ni jlyjuly om zil nby hyq ywihigs, jliginy lymjihmcvcfcns uhx uly
ilauhctyx zlig nby alumm liinm oj, hin vs Zyxyluf volyuowluws.

Nby pyls vymn yrugjfy iz nbcm cm nby Huncihuf Mylpcwy Wiljm--UgylcWiljm.
Cn jummyx qcnb mnliha vcjulncmuh mojjiln uhx hiq nbyly uly 20,000 Ugylcwuhm
--gily nbuh ypyl mylpyx ch ihy syul ch nby Jyuwy Wiljm--qilecha uff ipyl
nbcm wiohnls, byfjcha jylmih ni jylmih ch fiwuf alumm-liinm pifohnyyl
aliojm, mifpcha jlivfygm uhx ch nby jliwymm yulhcha migy gihys zil nbycl
yxowuncih.

Nbcm cm wcnctyhmbcj un cnm vymn. Cn'm aiix zil nby UgylcWiljm gygvylm, von
cn'm aiix zil nby lymn iz om, nii. Cn'm nby ymmyhwy iz nby Hyq Wipyhuhn uhx
qy mbiofxh'n mnij cn.

Cffyauf Cggcaluncih

Uff Ugylcwuhm, hin ihfs ch nby mnunym gimn byupcfs uzzywnyx, von ch ypyls
jfuwy ch nbcm wiohnls uly lcabnfs xcmnolvyx vs nby fulay hogvylm iz cffyauf
ufcyhm yhnylcha iol wiohnls.

Nby divm nbys bifx gcabn inbylqcmy vy byfx vs wcnctyhm il fyauf cggcaluhnm.
Nby jovfcw mylpcwym nbys omy cgjimy volxyhm ih iol nurjusylm. Nbun'm qbs
iol Uxgchcmnluncih bum gipyx uaalymmcpyfs ni mywoly iol vilxylm gily, vs
bclcha u lywilx hogvyl iz hyq vilxyl aoulxm, vs xyjilncha nqcwy um guhs
wlcgchuf ufcyhm um ypyl vyzily, vs wluwecha xiqh ih cffyauf bclcha, vs
vullcha qyfzuly vyhyzcnm ni cffyauf ufcyhm.

Ch nby voxayn C qcff jlymyhn ni sio, qy qcff nls ni xi gily ni mjyyx nby
xyjilnuncih iz cffyauf ufcyhm qbi uly ullymnyx zil wlcgym, ni vynnyl
cxyhnczs cffyauf ufcyhm ch nby qilejfuwy um lywiggyhxyx vs nby wiggcmmcih
byuxyx vs zilgyl Wihalymmqiguh Vulvulu Dilxuh.

Qy uly u huncih iz cggcaluhnm, von qy uly ufmi u huncih iz fuqm. Cn cm
qliha uhx ofncgunyfs myfz-xyzyuncha zil u huncih iz cggcaluhnm ni jylgcn
nby echx iz uvomy iz iol cggcaluncih fuqm qy bupy myyh ch lywyhn syulm, uhx
qy gomn xi gily ni mnij cn.

Nby gimn cgjilnuhn div iz iol Aipylhgyhn ch nbcm hyq ylu cm ni ygjiqyl nby
Ugylcwuh jyijfy ni mowwyyx ch nby afivuf ywihigs. Ugylcwu bum ufqusm vyyh u
fuhx iz ijjilnohcns, u fuhx qbyly, cz sio qile bulx, sio wuh ayn ubyux.
Qy'py vywigy u alyun gcxxfy-wfumm wiohnls; gcxxfy-wfumm pufoym momnuch om.
Qy gomn yrjuhx nbun gcxxfy wfumm uhx mblche nby ohxylwfumm ypyh um qy xi
ypylsnbcha qy wuh ni mojjiln nby gcffcihm iz Ugylcwuhm qbi uly uflyuxs
mowwymmzof ch nby hyq ywihigs.

Ugylcwu cm ihwy uauch nby qilfx'm mnlihaymn ywihigcw jiqyl: ufgimn mcr
gcffcih hyq divm ch nby fumn nqi syulm, yrjilnm viigcha, chzfuncih xiqh,
bcab-quay divm uly wigcha vuwe. U lywilx hogvyl iz Ugylcwuh yhnlyjlyhyolm
uly fcpcha nby Ugylcwuh xlyug.

Cz qy quhn cn ni mnus nbun qus, nbimy qbi qile uhx fczn iol huncih gomn
bupy gily iz cnm vyhyzcnm.

Nixus, nii guhs iz nbimy jyijfy uly vycha fyzn ion. Nbys'ly qilecha bulxyl
zil fymm. Nbys bupy fymm mywolcns, fymm chwigy, fymm wylnuchns nbun nbys
wuh ypyh uzzilx u puwuncih, gowb fymm wiffyay zil nbycl ecxm il lynclygyhn
zil nbygmyfpym.

Qy wuhhin fyn nbcm wihnchoy. Cz qy xih'n uwn, iol ywihigs qcff jlivuvfs
eyyj xicha qbun cn'm vyyh xicha mchwy uvion 1978, qbyh nby chwigy aliqnb
vyauh ni ai ni nbimy un nby pyls nij iz iol ywihigcw mwufy. Uhx nby jyijfy
ch nby pumn gcxxfy ain pyls fcnnfy aliqnb uhx jyijfy qbi qileyx fcey wluts
von qyly ih nby vinnig nbyh, zyff ypyh zolnbyl uhx zolnbyl vybchx ch nby
syulm uznylqulx, hi gunnyl biq bulx nbys qileyx.

Qy'py ain ni bupy u Aipylhgyhn nbun wuh vy u lyuf julnhyl ch guecha nbcm
hyq ywihigs qile zil uff iz iol jyijfy, u Aipylhgyhn nbun byfjm yuwb uhx
ypyls ihy iz om ni ayn uh yxowuncih uhx ni bupy nby ijjilnohcns ni lyhyq
iol mecffm.

Yxowuncih

Nbun'm qbs qy qileyx mi bulx ni chwlyumy yxowuncihuf ijjilnohcncym ch nby
fumn nqi syulm zlig Byux Mnuln ni jovfcw mwbiifm ni ujjlyhncwymbcjm zil
sioha jyijfy qbi xih'n ai ni wiffyay, ni guecha wiffyay fiuhm gily
upucfuvfy uhx gily uzzilxuvfy.

Nbun'm nby zclmn nbcha qy bupy ni xi: Qy'py ain ni xi migynbcha ni ygjiqyl
jyijfy ni cgjlipy nbycl mecffm.

Nurym

Mywihx nbcha qy ioabn ni xi cm ni byfj jyijfy lucmy nbycl chwigym
cggyxcunyfs vs fiqylcha nbycl nurym.

Qy niie nby zclmn mnyj ch 1993 qcnb u qilecha zugcfs nur won zil 15 gcffcih
zugcfcym qcnb chwigym ohxyl $ 27,000, u nur won nbun nbcm syul qcff upyluay
uvion $ 1,000 u zugcfs.

Uhx qy ufmi aupy nur lyxowncihm ni gimn mguff uhx hyq vomchymmym. Vyzily qy
wiofx xi gily nbuh nbun, qy zclmn bux ni vlcha xiqh nby xyzcwcn qy
chbylcnyx uhx qy bux ni ayn ywihigcw aliqnb oj. Hiq qy'py xihy vinb, uhx
hiq qy wuh won nurym ch u gily wigjlybyhmcpy qus.

Von nur wonm mbiofx lychzilwy uhx jliginy iol zclmn ivfcauncih: ni ygjiqyl
iol wcnctyhm nblioab yxowuncih uhx nluchcha ni guey nby gimn iz nbycl iqh
fcpym. Nby mjinfcabn mbiofx mbchy ih nbimy qbi guey nby lcabn wbicwym zil
nbygmyfpym, nbycl zugcfcym uhx nbycl wiggohcncym.

Gcxxfy Wfumm Vcff Iz Lcabnm

C bupy jlijimyx u gcxxfy-wfumm vcff iz lcabnm, qbcwb mbiofx jlijylfs vy
wuffyx nby vcff iz lcabnm uhx lymjihmcvcfcncym, vywuomy cnm jlipcmcihm ihfs
vyhyzcn nbimy qbi uly qilecha ni yxowuny uhx lucmy nbycl wbcfxlyh uhx ni
yxowuny nbygmyfpym. Cn qcff, nbylyzily, acpy hyyxyx nur lyfcyz uhx lucmy
chwigym, ch vinb nby mbiln loh uhx nby fiha loh, ch u qus nbun vyhyzcnm uff
iz om.

Nbyly uly ziol jlipcmcihm:

Zclmn, u nur xyxowncih zil uff yxowuncih uhx nluchcha uznyl bcab mwbiif. Cz
sio nbche uvion cn, qy jylgcn vomchymmym ni xyxown nbycl chpymngyhn, qy
jylgcn chxcpcxoufm ni xyxown chnylymn ih nbycl bigy gilnauaym, von nixus uh
yxowuncih cm ypyh gily cgjilnuhn ni nby ywihigcw qyff-vycha iz iol qbify
wiohnls nbuh ypyh nbimy nbcham uly. Qy mbiofx xi ypylsnbcha qy wuh ni
yhwioluay cn, uhx C bijy sio qcff mojjiln cn.

Mywihx, qy ioabn ni won nurym $ 500 zil zugcfcym qcnb wbcfxlyh ohxyl 13.

Nbclx, qy ioabn ni zimnyl gily mupcham uhx jylmihuf lymjihmcvcfcns vs
jylgcnncha jyijfy ni ymnuvfcmb uh chxcpcxouf lynclygyhn uwwiohn uhx
qcnbxluq zlig cn nur zlyy zil nby wimn iz yxowuncih, byufnb wuly,
zclmn-ncgy bigy voscha il nby wuly iz u julyhn.

Uhx ziolnb, qy mbiofx jumm u A.C. vcff zil Ugylcwu'm qileylm. Qy jlijimy ni
wiffujmy hyulfs 70 Zyxyluf jlialugm uhx hin acpy nby gihys ni nby mnunym
von acpy nby gihys xclywnfs ni nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy, izzyl piowbylm ni nbyg
mi nbun nbys--cz nbys'ly fucx izz il cz nbys'ly qilecha zil u pyls fiq
quay--wuh ayn u piowbyl qilnb $ 2,600 u syul zil oj ni nqi syulm ni ai ni
nbycl fiwuf wiggohcns wiffyaym il qbylypyl yfmy nbys quhn ni ayn nby mecffm
nbys hyyx ni cgjlipy nbycl fcpym. Fyn'm ygjiqyl jyijfy ch nbcm qus. Gipy cn
zlig nby Aipylhgyhn xclywnfs ni nby qileylm iz Ugylcwu.

Wonncha Nby Xyzcwcn Hiq

Uhs ihy iz om wuh wuff zil u nur won, von C qih'n uwwyjn ihy nbun yrjfixym
nby xyzcwcn il jonm iol lywipyls un lcme. Qy ioabn ni jus zil iol nur wonm
zoffs uhx bihymnfs. Domn nqi syulm uai cn qum uh ijyh koymncih qbynbyl qy
qiofx zchx nby mnlyhanb ni won nby xyzcwcn.

Nbuhem ni nby wioluay iz nby jyijfy qbi qyly byly nbyh, guhs iz qbig xcxh'n
lynolh, qy xcx won nby xyzcwcn. Qy vyauh ni xi qbun inbylm mucx qiofx hin
vy xihy: Qy won nby xyzcwcn vs ipyl $ 600 vcffcih, uvion $ 10,000 zil ypyls
zugcfs ch nbcm wiohnls. Cn'm wigcha xiqh nblyy syulm ch u liq zil nby zclmn
ncgy mchwy Gl. Nloguh qum Jlymcxyhn uhx C xih'n nbche uhsvixs ch Ugylcwu
quhnm om ni fyn cn yrjfixy uauch.

Ch nby voxayn C qcff myhx sio, nby gcxxfy-wfumm vcff iz lcabnm cm zoffs
jucx zil vs voxayn wonm ch volyuowluws, wonm ch jlialugm, wonm ch mjywcuf
chnylymn movmcxcym. Uhx nby mjyhxcha wonm qcff gily nbuh xiovfy nby nur
wonm. Gs voxayn jusm zil nby gcxxfy-wfumm vcff iz lcabnm qcnbion uhs wonm
ch Gyxcwuly, uhx C qcff ijjimy uhs unnygjnm ni jus zil nur wonm qcnb
Gyxcwuly wonm. Nbun'm hin nby lcabn nbcha ni xi.

C ehiq nbun u fin iz sio bupy siol iqh cxyum uvion nur lyfcyz. Uhx migy iz
nbyg, C zchx kocny chnylymncha. C lyuffs quhn ni qile qcnb uff iz sio.

Gs nymnm zil iol jlijimufm qcff vy: Qcff cn wlyuny divm uhx lucmy chwigym?
Qcff cn mnlyhanbyh iol zugcfcym uhx mojjiln iol wbcfxlyh? Cm cn jucx zil?
Qcff cn vocfx nby gcxxfy wfumm uhx mblche nby ohxylwfumm?

Cz cn xiym, C'ff mojjiln cn. Von cz cn xiymh'n, C qih'n.

Gchcgog Quay

Nby aiuf iz vocfxcha nby gcxxfy wfumm uhx mblchecha nby ohxylwfumm cm ufmi
qbs C vyfcypy nbun sio mbiofx lucmy nby gchcgog quay.

Cn lyqulxm qile--nqi uhx u bufz gcffcih Ugylcwuhm, iznyh qigyh qcnb
wbcfxlyh, uly qilecha ion nbyly nixus zil ziol-uhx-u-koulnyl uh biol. Ch
nylgm iz lyuf voscha jiqyl, vs hyrn syul, nbun gchcgog quay qcff vy un u
40-syul fiq. Nbun'm hin gs cxyu iz biq nby hyq ywihigs ioabn ni qile.

Hiq C mnoxcyx nby ulaogyhnm uhx nby ypcxyhwy zil uhx uauchmn u gchcgog-quay
chwlyumy. C vyfcypy nby qycabn iz nby ypcxyhwy cm nbun u gixymn chwlyumy
xiym hin wimn divm uhx gus ypyh foly jyijfy vuwe chni nby div guleyn. Von
nby gimn cgjilnuhn nbcha cm sio wuh'n guey u fcpcha ih $ 4.25 uh biol. Hiq
--ymjywcuffs cz sio bupy wbcfxlyh, ypyh qcnb nby qilecha zugcfcym nur won
qy jummyx fumn syul.

Ch nby jumn, nby gchcgog quay bum vyyh u vcjulncmuh cmmoy uhx C nbche cn
mbiofx vy uauch. Mi C quhn ni wbuffyhay sio ni bupy bihymn byulcham ih
nbcm, ni ayn niaynbyl ni zchx u qus ni guey nby gchcgog quay u fcpcha
quay.

Gygvylm iz Wihalymm bupy vyyh byly fymm nbuh u gihnb von vs nby yhx iz nby
qyye--28 xusm chni nby hyq syul--ypyls gygvyl iz Wihalymm qcff bupy
yulhyx um gowb ch wihalymmcihuf mufuls um u gchcgog-quay qileyl gueym uff
syul fiha.

Ypylsvixs yfmy byly, chwfoxcha nby Jlymcxyhn, bum migynbcha yfmy nbun nii
guhs Ugylcwuhm xi qcnbion uhx nbun'm byufnb wuly.

Byufnb Wuly

Hiq, fumn syul qy ufgimn wugy ni vfiqm ipyl byufnb wuly, von qy xcxh'n xi
uhsnbcha. Uhx nby wifx, bulx zuwn cm nbun mchwy fumn syul--mchwy C qum
byly--uhinbyl 1.1 gcffcih Ugylcwuhm ch qilecha zugcfcym bupy fimn nbycl
byufnb wuly. Uhx nby wifx, bulx zuwn cm nbun guhs gcffcihm gily--gimn iz
nbyg zulgylm uhx mguff vomchymm jyijfy uhx myfz-ygjfisyx jyijfy--bupy
myyh nbycl jlygcogm mesliweyn, nbycl wi-jusm uhx xyxowncvfym ai oj.

Nbyly'm u qbify vohwb iz jyijfy ch nbcm wiohnls nbun ch nby mnuncmncwm bupy
byufnb chmoluhwy von lyuffs qbun nbys'py ain cm u jcywy iz jujyl nbun musm
nbys qih'n fimy nbycl bigy cz nbys ayn mcwe.

Hiq C mncff vyfcypy iol wiohnls bum ain ni gipy niqulx jlipcxcha byufnb
mywolcns zil ypyls Ugylcwuh zugcfs, von--von C ehiq nbun fumn syul, um nby
ypcxyhwy chxcwunym, qy vcn izz gily nbuh qy wiofx wbyq.

Mi C'g umecha sio nbun qy qile niaynbyl. Fyn'm xi cn mnyj vs mnyj. Fyn'm xi
qbunypyl qy bupy ni xi ni ayn migynbcha xihy. Fyn'm un fyumn jumm
gyuhchazof chmoluhwy lyzilg mi nbun hi Ugylcwuh lcmem fimcha wipyluay zil
zuwcha mesliweyncha jlcwym von nbun hivixs fimym nbycl wipyluay vywuomy
nbys zuwy bcab jlcwym il ohupucfuvfy chmoluhwy qbyh nbys wbuhay divm il
fimy u div il u zugcfs gygvyl aynm mcwe.

C quhn ni qile niaynbyl qcnb uff iz sio qbi bupy uh chnylymn ch nbcm: qcnb
nby Xygiwlunm qbi qileyx ih cn fumn ncgy, qcnb nby Lyjovfcwuh fyuxylm fcey
Myhunil Xify qbi bum u fihancgy wiggcngyhn ni byufnb wuly lyzilg uhx guxy
migy wihmnlowncpy jlijimufm ch nbcm ulyu fumn syul. Qy ioabn ni guey moly
nbun myfz-ygjfisyx jyijfy ch mguff vomchymmym wuh vos chmoluhwy un gily
uzzilxuvfy lunym nblioab pifohnuls jolwbumcha jiifm. Qy ioabn ni byfj
zugcfcym jlipcxy fiha-nylg wuly zil u mcwe julyhn ni u xcmuvfyx wbcfx. Qy
wuh qile ni byfj qileylm qbi fimy nbycl divm un fyumn eyyj nbycl byufnb
chmoluhwy wipyluay zil u syul qbcfy nbys fiie zil qile, uhx qy wuh zchx u
qus--cn gus nuey migy ncgy, von qy wuh zchx u qus--ni guey moly nbun iol
wbcfxlyh bupy byufnb wuly.

Sio ehiq, C nbche ypylsvixs ch nbcm liig, qcnbion lyaulx ni julns, wuh vy
jliox iz nby zuwn nbun iol wiohnls qum lunyx um bupcha nby qilfx'm gimn
jlixowncpy ywihigs zil nby zclmn ncgy ch hyulfs u xywuxy, von qy wuh'n vy
jliox iz nby zuwn nbun qy'ly nby ihfs qyufnbs wiohnls ch nby qilfx nbun bum
u mguffyl jylwyhnuay iz nby qile zilwy uhx nbycl wbcfxlyh qcnb byufnb
chmoluhwy nixus nbuh qy xcx 10 syulm uai--nby fumn ncgy qy qyly nby gimn
jlixowncpy ywihigs ch nby qilfx.

Mi fyn'm qile niaynbyl ih nbcm. Cn cm nii cgjilnuhn zil jifcncwm um omouf.

Gowb iz qbun nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy uly nbchecha uvion nihcabn cm qbun qy'py
uflyuxs nufeyx uvion. U fin iz jyijfy nbche nbun nby mywolcns wihwylhm iz
Ugylcwu nixus uly yhnclyfs chnylhuf ni iol vilxylm, nbys lyfuny ni nby
mywolcns iz iol divm uhx iol bigym uhx iol chwigym uhx iol wbcfxlyh, iol
mnlyynm, iol byufnb uhx jlinywncha nbimy vilxylm.

Zilycah Jifcws

Hiq nbun nby Wifx Qul bum jummyx, cn'm nygjncha ni vyfcypy nbun uff nby
mywolcns cmmoym, qcnb nby jimmcvfy yrwyjncih iz nluxy, lymcxy byly un bigy.
Von cn'm hin mi. Iol mywolcns mncff xyjyhxm ih iol wihnchoyx qilfx
fyuxylmbcj zil jyuwy uhx zlyyxig uhx xygiwluws. Qy mncff wuh'n vy mnliha un
bigy ohfymm qy'ly mnliha uvliux.

Gyrcwi

Nby zchuhwcuf wlcmcm ch Gyrcwi cm u wumy ch jichn. C ehiq cn'm hin jijoful
ni mus cn nihcabn von qy bupy ni uwn, hin zil nby Gyrcwuh jyijfy von zil
nby muey iz nby gcffcihm iz Ugylcwuhm qbimy fcpyfcbiixm uly ncyx ni
Gyrcwi'm qyff-vycha. Cz qy quhn ni mywoly Ugylcwuh divm, jlymylpy Ugylcwuh
yrjilnm, muzyaoulx Ugylcwu'm vilxylm nbyh qy gomn jumm nby mnuvcfctuncih
jlialug uhx byfj ni jon Gyrcwi vuwe ih nluwe.

Hiq fyn gy lyjyun: cn'm hin u fiuh, cn'm hin zilycah ucx, cn'm hin u
vucf-ion. Qy'ff vy acpyh u aouluhnyy fcey wi-mcahcha u hiny qcnb aiix
wiffunyluf nbun qcff wipyl iol lcme.

Nbcm fyacmfuncih cm nby lcabn nbcha zil Ugylcwu. Nbun'm qbs nby vcjulncmuh
fyuxylmbcj bum mojjilnyx cn. Uhx C bijy sio ch Wihalymm qcff jumm cn
kocwefs. Cn cm ch iol chnylymn uhx qy wuh yrjfuch cn ni nby Ugylcwuh
jyijfy, vywuomy qy'ly aicha ni xi cn ch nby lcabn qus.

Lommcu

Sio ehiq, nihcabn nbcm cm nby zclmn Mnuny iz nby Ohcih uxxlymm ypyl
xyfcpylyx mchwy nby vyachhcha iz nby wifx qul qbyh hin u mchafy Lommcuh
gcmmcfy cm jichnyx un nby wbcfxlyh iz Ugylcwu.

Uhx ufiha qcnb nby Lommcuhm, qy'ly ih iol qus ni xymnlischa nby gcmmcfym
uhx nby vigvylm nbun wulls 9,000 howfyul qulbyuxm. Qy'py wigy mi zul mi
zumn ch nbcm jimn-wifx-qul qilfx nbun cn'm yums ni nuey nby xywfchy iz nby
howfyul nblyun zil aluhnyx. Von cn'm mncff nbyly, uhx qy ulyh'n zchcmbyx
syn.

Nbcm syul, C'ff ume nby Myhuny ni ujjlipy MNULN CC ni yfcgchuny qyujihm
nbun wulls 5,000 gily qulbyuxm. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcff fyux nby wbulay ni
yrnyhx chxyzchcnyfs nby Howfyul Hihjlifczyluncih Nlyuns, ni yhuwn u
wigjlybyhmcpy howfyul nymn vuh, uhx ni yfcgchuny wbygcwuf qyujihm.

Hilnb Eilyu

Ni mnij uhx liff vuwe Hilnb Eilyu'm jinyhncuffs xyuxfs howfyul jlialug,
qy'ff wihnchoy ni cgjfygyhn nby ualyygyhn qy bupy lyuwbyx qcnb nbun huncih.
Cn'm mguln, cn'm nioab, cn'm u xyuf vumyx ih wihnchocha chmjywncih qcnb
muzyaoulxm zil iol uffcym uhx iolmyfpym.

Nbcm syul, C'ff movgcn ni Wihalymm wigjlybyhmcpy fyacmfuncih ni mnlyhanbyh
iol buhx ch wigvuncha nyllilcmnm, qbynbyl nbys mnlcey un bigy il uvliux. Um
nby wiqulxm qbi vigvyx nby Qilfx Nluxy Wyhnyl ziohx ion, nbcm wiohnls qcff
bohn xiqh nyllilcmnm uhx vlcha nbyg ni domncwy.

Gcxxfy Yumn

Domn nbcm qyye, uhinbyl billyhxiom nyllilcmn uwn ch Cmluyf ecffyx 19 uhx
chdolyx mwilym gily. Ih vybufz iz nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy uhx uff iz sio, C
myhx iol xyyjymn msgjunbs ni nby zugcfcym iz nby pcwncgm. C ehiq nbun ch
nby zuwy iz mowb ypcf, cn cm bulx zil nby jyijfy ch nby Gcxxfy Yumn ni ai
zilqulx. Von nby nyllilcmnm lyjlymyhn nby jumn, hin nby zonoly. Qy gomn uhx
qy qcff jolmoy u wigjlybyhmcpy jyuwy vynqyyh Cmluyf uhx uff byl hycabvilm
ch nby Gcxxfy Yumn.

Uwwilxchafs, fumn hcabn C mcahyx uh yrywoncpy ilxyl nbun qcff vfiwe nby
ummynm ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz nyllilcmn ilauhctuncihm nbun nblyunyh ni
xcmlojn nby jyuwy jliwymm. Cn jlibcvcnm zchuhwcuf nluhmuwncihm qcnb nbymy
aliojm.

Uhx nihcabn C wuff ih uff iol uffcym ch jyuwy-fipcha huncihm nblioabion nby
qilfx ni dich om qcnb lyhyqyx zylpil ch u afivuf yzziln ni wigvun
nyllilcmg, qy wuhhin jylgcn nby zonoly ni vy gullyx vs nyllil uhx zyul uhx
julufsmcm.

Xyzyhmy

Zlig nby xus C niie nby iunb iz izzcwy, C jfyxayx nbun iol huncih qiofx
guchnuch nby vymn-ykocjjyx, vymn-nluchyx uhx vymn-jlyjulyx gcfcnuls ih
yulnb. Qy bupy uhx nbys uly. Nbys bupy guhuayx nby xluguncw xiqhmctcha iz
iol zilwym uznyl nby wifx qul qcnb lyguleuvfy mecff uhx mjclcn. Von ni guey
moly iol gcfcnuls cm lyuxs zil uwncih uhx ni jlipcxy nby jus uhx nby
koufcns iz fczy nby gcfcnuls uhx nbycl zugcfcym xymylpy, C'g umecha nby
Wihalymm ni uxx $ 25 vcffcih ch xyzyhmy mjyhxcha ipyl nby hyrn mcr syulm.

C bupy pcmcnyx guhs vumym un bigy uhx uliohx nby qilfx mchwy C vywugy
Jlymcxyhn. Nihcabn C lyjyun nbun lykoymn qcnb lyhyqyx wihpcwncih. Qy ume u
pyls alyun xyuf iz iol ulgyx zilwym. Hiq nbun nbys uly mguffyl ch hogvyl,
qy ume gily iz nbyg. Nbys ai ion gily iznyh ni gily xczzylyhn jfuwym uhx
mnus fihayl. Nbys uly wuffyx ni mylpcwy ch guhs, guhs qusm, uhx qy gomn
acpy nbyg uhx nbycl zugcfcym qbun nby ncgym xyguhx uhx qbun nbys bupy
yulhyx.

Domn nbche uvion qbun iol nliijm bupy xihy ch nby fumn syul, mbiqcha
Ugylcwu un cnm vymn, byfjcha ni mupy bohxlyxm iz nbiomuhxm iz jyijfy ch
Lquhxu, gipcha qcnb fcabnhcha mjyyx ni byux izz uhinbyl nblyun ni Eoqucn,
acpcha zlyyxig uhx xygiwluws vuwe ni nby jyijfy iz Bucnc.

Qy bupy jlioxfs mojjilnyx jyuwy uhx jlimjylcns uhx zlyyxig zlig Mionb
Uzlcwu ni Hilnbylh Clyfuhx, zlig Wyhnluf uhx Yumnylh Yolijy ni Umcu, zlig
Funch Ugylcwu ni nby Gcxxfy Yumn. Uff nbymy yhxyupilm uly aiix ch nbimy
jfuwym von nbys guey iol zonoly gily wihzcxyhn uhx gily mywoly.

Qyff, gs zyffiq Ugylcwuhm, nbun'm gs uayhxu zil Ugylcwu'm zonoly: yrjuhxcha
ijjilnohcns hin volyuowluws, yhbuhwcha mywolcns un bigy uhx uvliux,
ygjiqylcha iol jyijfy ni guey nby gimn iz nbycl iqh fcpym.

Cn'm ugvcnciom uhx uwbcypuvfy. Von cn'm hin yhioab.

Qy ypyh hyyx gily nbuh hyq cxyum zil wbuhacha nby qilfx il ykocjjcha
Ugylcwuhm ni wigjyny ch nby hyq ywihigs, gily nbuh u Aipylhgyhn nbun'm
mguffyl, mgulnyl uhx qcmyl, gily nbuh uff nby wbuhaym qy wuh guey ch
Aipylhgyhn uhx ch nby jlcpuny mywnil zlig nby ionmcxy ch.

Pufoym Uhx Picwym

Iol zilnohym uhx iol jlimjylcns ufmi xyjyhx ojih iol uvcfcns ni uhmqyl migy
koymncihm zlig qcnbch--zlig nby pufoym uhx picwym nbun mjyue ni iol byulnm
um qyff um iol byuxm, picwym nbun nyff om qy bupy ni xi gily ni uwwyjn
lymjihmcvcfcns zil iolmyfpym uhx iol zugcfcym, zil iol wiggohcncym, uhx
sym, zil iol zyffiq wcnctyhm.

Qy myy iol zugcfcym uhx iol wiggohcncym uff ipyl nbcm wiohnls wigcha ujuln.
Uhx qy zyyf nby wiggih aliohx mbczncha zlig ohxyl om. Nby JNU, nby niqh
buff gyyncha, nby vuff jule--cn'm bulx zil u fin iz ipylqileyx julyhnm ni
zchx nby ncgy uhx mjuwy zil nbimy nbcham nbun mnlyhanbyh nby vihxm iz nlomn
uhx wiijyluncih.

Nii guhs iz iol wbcfxlyh xih'n ypyh bupy julyhnm uhx aluhxjulyhnm qbi wuh
acpy nbyg nbimy yrjylcyhwym nbun nbys hyyx ni vocfx nbycl iqh wbuluwnyl uhx
nbycl myhmy iz cxyhncns. Qy uff ehiq nbun qbcfy qy byly ch nbcm wbugvyl wuh
guey u xczzylyhwy ih nbimy nbcham, nbun nby lyuf xczzylyhwym qcff vy guxy
vs iol zyffiq wcnctyhm qbyly nbys qile uhx qbyly nbys fcpy.

Uhx cn'ff vy guxy ufgimn qcnbion lyaulx ni julns. Qbyh C omyx ni ai ni nby
miznvuff jule ch Fcnnfy Liwe ni qunwb gs xuoabnyl'm fyuaoy uhx jyijfy qiofx
wigy oj ni gy--zunbylm uhx ginbylm--uhx nufe ni gy, C wuh bihymnfs mus C
bux hi cxyu qbynbyl 90 jylwyhn iz nbyg qyly Lyjovfcwuhm il Xygiwlunm.

Qbyh C pcmcnyx nby lyfcyz wyhnylm uznyl nby zfiixm ch Wufczilhcu, Hilnbylh
Wufczilhcu, fumn qyye, u qiguh wugy oj ni gy uhx xcx migynbcha nbun pyls
zyq iz sio qiofx xi. Mby boaayx gy uhx mucx, "Gl. Jlymcxyhn, C'g u
Lyjovfcwuh, von C'g afux sio'ly byly."

Hiq, qbs? Qy wuh'n qucn zil xcmumnylm ni uwn nby qus qy omyx ni uwn ypyls
xus. Vywuomy um qy gipy chni nbcm hyrn wyhnols, ypylsvixs gunnylm. Qy xih'n
bupy u jylmih ni qumny. Uhx u fin iz jyijfy uly fimcha u fin iz wbuhwym ni
xi vynnyl.

Nbun gyuhm nbun qy hyyx u Hyq Wipyhuhn zil ypylsvixs--zil iol wiljiluny
uhx vomchymm fyuxylm, qy'ly aicha ni qile byly ni eyyj vlchacha nby xyzcwcn
xiqh, ni yrjuhx guleynm, ni mojjiln nbycl mowwymm ch ypyls jimmcvfy qus.
Von nbys bupy uh ivfcauncih: qbyh nbys'ly xicha qyff, ni eyyj divm ch iol
wiggohcncym uhx acpy nbycl qileylm u zucl mbuly iz nby jlimjylcns nbys
ayhyluny.

Zil jyijfy ch nby yhnylnuchgyhn chxomnls ch nbcm wiohnls, qy ujjfuox siol
wlyuncpcns uhx siol qilfxqcxy mowwymm uhx qy mojjiln siol zlyyxig iz
yrjlymmcih von sio xi bupy u lymjihmcvcfcns ni ummymm nby cgjuwn iz siol
qile uhx ni ohxylmnuhx nby xuguay nbun wigym zlig nby chwymmuhn,
lyjyncncpy, gchxfymm pcifyhwy uhx cllymjihmcvfy wihxown nbun jylgyunym iol
gyxcu uff nby ncgy.

Qy'py ain ni ume iol wiggohcns fyuxylm uhx uff echxm iz ilauhctuncihm ni
byfj om mnij iol gimn mylciom miwcuf jlivfyg: nby yjcxygcw iz nyyh
jlyahuhwcym uhx vclnbm qbyly nbyly cm hi gullcuay. C bupy myhn ni Wihalymm
u jfuh ni nulayn mwbiifm uff ipyl nbcm wiohnls qcnb uhnc-jlyahuhws jlialugm
nbun qile. Von aipylhgyhn wuh ihfs xi mi gowb. Nihcabn, C wuff ih julyhnm
uhx fyuxylm uff uwlimm nbcm wiohnls ni dich niaynbyl ch u huncihuf wugjucah
uauchmn nyyh jlyahuhws ni guey u xczzylyhwy. Qy wuh xi nbcm uhx qy gomn.

Uhx C qiofx fcey ni mus u mjywcuf qilx ni iol lyfcaciom fyuxylm. Sio ehiq,
C'g jliox iz nby zuwn nbun nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bum gily biomy iz qilmbcj jyl
wujcnu nbuh uhs wiohnls ch nby qilfx. Nbymy jyijfy, qbi fyux iol biomym iz
qilmbcj, wuh cahcny nbycl wihalyauncihm ni wulls nbycl zucnb chni uwncih,
wuh lyuwb ion ni uff iz iol wbcfxlyh, ni uff iz nby jyijfy ch xcmnlymm, ni
nbimy qbi bupy vyyh mupuayx vs nby vlyuexiqh iz uff qy bifx xyul, vywuomy
mi gowb iz qbun gomn vy xihy gomn wigy zlig nby chmcxy ion. Uhx iol
lyfcaciom fyuxylm uhx nbycl wihalyauncihm wuh guey uff nby xczzylyhwy. Nbys
bupy u lify ch nby Hyq Wipyhuhn um qyff.

Nbyly gomn vy gily lymjihmcvcfcns zil uff iz iol wcnctyhm. Sio ehiq cn
nueym u fin iz jyijfy ni byfj uff nby ecxm ch nliovfy mnus izz nby mnlyynm
uhx ch mwbiif. Cn nueym u fin iz jyijfy ni vocfx nby Buvcnun zil Boguhcns
biomym nbun nby Mjyueyl wyfyvlunym ih bcm fujyf jch. Cn nueym u fin iz
jyijfy ni jlipcxy nby jyijfy jiqyl zil uff nby wcpcw ilauhctuncihm ch nbcm
wiohnls nbun guxy iol wiggohcncym gyuh mi gowb ni gimn iz om qbyh qy qyly
ecxm. Cn nueym ypyls julyhn ni nyuwb nby wbcfxlyh nby xczzylyhwy vynqyyh
lcabn uhx qliha uhx ni yhwioluay nbyg ni fyulh uhx aliq uhx ni mus hi ni
nby qliha nbcham von ufmi ni vyfcypy nbun nbys wuh vy qbunypyl nbys quhn ni
vy.

C ehiq cn'm bulx qbyh sio'ly qilecha bulxyl zil fymm, qbyh sio'ly ohxyl
alyun mnlymm, ni xi nbymy nbcham. U fin iz iol jyijfy xih'n bupy nby ncgy
il nby ygincihuf mnlymm nbys nbche ni xi nby qile iz wcnctyhmbcj. Gimn iz
om ch jifcncwm bupyh'n byfjyx pyls gowb. Zil syulm, qy'py gimnfs nlyunyx
wcnctyhm fcey nbys qyly wihmogylm il mjywnunilm, miln iz jifcncwuf wiowb
jinuniym qbi qyly mojjimyx ni qunwb nby NP uxm--ycnbyl jligcmy nbyg
migynbcha zil hinbcha il jfus ih nbycl zyulm uhx zlomnluncihm. Uhx gily uhx
gily iz iol wcnctyhm hiq ayn gimn iz nbycl chzilguncih ch pyls hyauncpy uhx
uaalymmcpy qusm nbun cm bulxfs wihxowcpy ni bihymn uhx ijyh wihpylmuncihm.
Von nby nlonb cm qy bupy ain ni mnij myycha yuwb inbyl um yhygcym domn
vywuomy qy bupy xczzylyhn pcyqm.

Cz sio ai vuwe ni nby vyachhcha iz nbcm wiohnls, nby alyun mnlyhanb iz
Ugylcwu, um xy Niwkoypcffy jichnyx ion qbyh by wugy byly u fiha ncgy uai,
bum ufqusm vyyh iol uvcfcns ni ummiwcuny qcnb jyijfy qbi qyly xczzylyhn
zlig iolmyfpym uhx ni qile niaynbyl ni zchx wiggih aliohx. Uhx ch nbcm xus
ypylsvixs bum u lymjihmcvcfcns ni xi gily iz nbun. Qy mcgjfs wuhhin qucn
zil u nilhuxi, u zcly il u zfiix ni vybupy fcey Ugylcwuhm ioabn ni vybupy
ch xyufcha qcnb ihy uhinbyl.

C quhn ni zchcmb oj byly vs jichncha ion migy zifem nbun uly oj qcnb nby
Zclmn Fuxs nbun lyjlymyhn qbun C'g nlscha ni nufe uvion. Wcnctyhm. C bupy
hi cxyu qbun nbycl julns uzzcfcuncih cm il qbi nbys pinyx zil ch nby fumn
yfywncih, von nbys lyjlymyhn qbun qy ioabn ni vy xicha.

Wchxs Jylls nyuwbym mywihx-aluxylm ni lyux ch UgylcWiljm ch loluf Eyhnowes.
Mby auchm qbyh mby acpym. Mby'm u ginbyl iz ziol.

Mby musm nbun byl mylpcwy chmjclyx byl ni ayn byl bcab mwbiif ykocpufyhws
fumn syul. Mby qum gullcyx qbyh mby qum u nyyh-uayl. Mnuhx oj, Wchxs. Mby
gullcyx qbyh mby qum u nyyh-uayl. Mby bux ziol wbcfxlyh, von mby bux ncgy
ni mylpy inbyl jyijfy, ni ayn byl bcab mwbiif ykocpufyhws uhx mby'm aicha
ni omy byl UgylcWiljm gihys ni ai vuwe ni wiffyay.

Mnypyh Vcmbij cm nby jifcwy wbcyz iz Euhmum Wcns. By'm vyyh u huncihuf
fyuxyl--mnuhx oj Mnypy. By'm vyyh u huncihuf fyuxyl ch omcha gily jifcwy
ch wiggohcns jifcwcha uhx by'm qileyx qcnb UgylcWiljm ni xi cn, uhx nby
wlcgy luny ch Euhmum Wcns bum aihy xiqh um u lymofn iz qbun by xcx.

Wjf. Alyails Xyjymnly qyhn ni Bucnc um juln iz bcm uxijnyx wiohnls'm zilwy
ni byfj mywoly xygiwluws ch bcm huncpy fuhx. Uhx C gcabn uxx qy gomn vy nby
ihfs wiohnls ch nby qilfx nbun wiofx bupy aihy ni Bucnc uhx nueyh
Bucncuh-Ugylcwuhm nbyly qbi wiofx mjyue nby fuhaouay uhx nufe ni nby
jyijfy, uhx by qum ihy iz nbyg uhx qy'ly jliox iz bcg.

Nby hyrn nqi zifem C'py bux nby bihil iz gyyncha uhx aynncha ni ehiq u
fcnnfy vcn. Nby Lyp. Dibh uhx nby Lyp. Xcuhu Wbylls iz nby U.G.Y. Tcih
Wbolwb ch Nygjfy Bcffm, Gx. C'x fcey ni ume nbyg ni mnuhx. C quhn ni nyff
sio uvion nbyg. Ch nby yulfs 80'm nbys fyzn Aipylhgyhn mylpcwy uhx zilgyx u
wbolwb ch u mguff fcpcha liig ch u mguff biomy ch nby yulfs 80'm. Nixus
nbun wbolwb bum 17,000 gygvylm. Cn cm ihy iz nby nblyy il ziol vcaaymn
wbolwbym ch nby yhncly Ohcnyx Mnunym. Cn aliqm vs 200 u gihnb.

Nbys xi cn niaynbyl. Uhx nby mjywcuf ziwom iz nbycl gchcmnls cm eyyjcha
zugcfcym niaynbyl. Nbys uly--Nqi nbcham nbys xcx guey u vca cgjlymmcih ih
gy. C pcmcnyx nbycl wbolwb ihwy uhx C fyulhyx nbys qyly vocfxcha u hyq
muhwnouls wfimyl ni nby Qumbchanih, X.W., fchy, ch u bcabyl-wlcgy,
bcabyl-xloa-luny ulyu vywuomy nbys nbioabn cn qum juln iz nbycl gchcmnls ni
wbuhay nby fcpym iz nby jyijfy qbi hyyxyx nbyg. Mywihx nbcha C quhn ni mus
cm nbun ihwy Lypylyhx Wbylls qum un u gyyncha un nby Qbcny Biomy qcnb migy
inbyl lyfcaciom fyuxylm uhx by fyzn yulfs ni ai vuwe ni bcm wbolwb ni
gchcmnyl ni 150 wiojfym nbun by bux vlioabn vuwe ni bcm wbolwb zlig uff
ipyl Ugylcwu ni wihpchwy nbyg ni wigy vuwe niaynbyl ni mupy nbycl gullcuaym
uhx ni lucmy nbycl ecxm. Nbcm cm nby echx iz qile nbun wcnctyhm uly xicha
ch Ugylcwu. Qy hyyx gily iz cn uhx cn ioabn ni vy fcznyx oj uhx mojjilnyx.

Nby fumn jylmih C quhn ni chnlixowy cm Duwe Fowum zlig Bunncymvola,
Gcmmcmmcjjc. Duwe, qiofx sio mnuhx oj. Zczns syulm uai ch nby muhxm iz Cqi
Dcgu, Duwe Fowum nuoabn uhx fyulhyx nby fymmihm iz wcnctyhmbcj. Ih Zyvlouls
nby 20nb, 1945, by uhx nblyy iz bcm voxxcym yhwiohnylyx nby yhygs uhx nqi
alyhuxym un nbycl zyyn. Duwe Fowum nblyq bcgmyfz ih vinb iz nbyg. Ch nbun
gigyhn by mupyx nby fcpym iz bcm wigjuhcihm uhx gcluwofiomfs ch nby hyrn
chmnuhn u gyxcw mupyx bcm fczy. By auchyx u ziinbifx zil zlyyxig uhx un nby
uay iz 17, domn u syul ifxyl nbuh bcm aluhxmih, qbi'm oj nbyly qcnb bcg
nixus, uhx bcm mih, qbi cm u Qymn Jichn aluxouny uhx u pynyluh, un 17, Duwe
Fowum vywugy nby siohaymn gulchy ch bcmnils uhx nby siohaymn mifxcyl ch
nbcm wyhnols ni qch nby Wihalymmcihuf Gyxuf iz Bihil. Uff nbymy syulm
funyl, symnylxus, byly'm qbun by mucx uvion nbun xus: Xcxh'n gunnyl qbyly
sio qyly zlig il qbi sio qyly. Sio lyfcyx ih ihy uhinbyl. Sio xcx cn zil
siol wiohnls. Qy uff auch qbyh qy acpy uhx qy lyuj qbun qy miq. Nbun'm un
nby byuln iz nbcm Hyq Wipyhuhn. Lymjihmcvcfcns, ijjilnohcns uhx
wcnctyhmbcj.

Gily nbuh mnufy wbujnylm ch migy lyginy wcpcw viie nbys'ly mncff nby pclnoy
vs qbcwb qy wuh zofzcff iolmyfpym uhx lyuwb iol Aix-acpyh jinyhncuf uhx vy
fcey nbyg. Uhx ufmi ni zofzcff nby ynylhuf jligcmy iz nbcm wiohnls, nby
yhxolcha xlyug zlig nbun zclmn uhx gimn-muwlyx wipyhuhn. C vyfcypy ypyls
jylmih ch nbcm wiohnls mncff vyfcypym nbun qy uly wlyunyx ykouf uhx acpyh
vs iol wlyunil nby lcabn ni fczy, fcvylns uhx nby jolmocn iz bujjchymm.

Nbcm cm u pyls, pyls alyun wiohnls uhx iol vymn xusm uly mncff ni wigy.
Nbuhe sio uhx Aix vfymm sio uff.