Fk. Lixtdxk, Fk. Obvx Ikxlbwxgm, Fxfuxkl hy Vhgzkxll, ahghkxw znxlml, fr
yxeehp Tfxkbvtgl:

Px tkx yhkmngtmx mh ux tebox tm mabl fhfxgm bg ablmhkr. Gxoxk uxyhkx atl
hnk gtmbhg xgchrxw, tm hgvx, lh fnva ikhlixkbmr tgw lhvbte ikhzkxll pbma lh
ebmmex bgmxkgte vkblbl hk lh yxp xqmxkgte makxtml. Gxoxk uxyhkx atox px atw
lnva t uexllxw hiihkmngbmr--tgw, maxkxyhkx, lnva t ikhyhngw huebztmbhg--
mh unbew max fhkx ixkyxvm ngbhg hy hnk yhngwxkl' wkxtfl.

Px uxzbg max gxp vxgmnkr pbma hoxk 20 fbeebhg gxp chul. Max ytlmxlm
xvhghfbv zkhpma bg fhkx matg 30 rxtkl; max ehpxlm ngxfiehrfxgm ktmxl bg 30
rxtkl; max ehpxlm ihoxkmr ktmxl bg 20 rxtkl; max ehpxlm Tykbvtg-Tfxkbvtg
tgw Ablitgbv ngxfiehrfxgm ktmxl hg kxvhkw; max ybklm utvd-mh-utvd unwzxm
lnkienlxl bg 42 rxtkl.

Gxqm fhgma, Tfxkbvt pbee tvabxox max ehgzxlm ixkbhw hy xvhghfbv zkhpma bg
hnk xgmbkx ablmhkr.

Px atox unbem t gxp xvhghfr.

Hnk xvhghfbv kxohenmbhg atl uxxg ftmvaxw ur t kxobote hy max Tfxkbvtg
libkbm: Vkbfx whpg ur 20 ixkvxgm, mh bml ehpxlm exoxe bg 25 rxtkl. Mxxg
ubkmal whpg lxoxg rxtkl bg t khp tgw twhimbhgl ni ur 30 ixkvxgm. Pxeytkx
kheel vnm bg atey mh maxbk ehpxlm exoxel bg 30 rxtkl.

Fr yxeehp Tfxkbvtgl, max lmtmx hy hnk ngbhg bl max lmkhgzxlm bm atl xoxk
uxxg.

Tl teptrl, max vkxwbm uxehgzl mh max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex.

Fr zktmbmnwx telh zhxl mh mahlx hy rhn bg mabl vatfuxk pah atox phkdxw pbma
nl mh inm ikhzkxll tuhox itkmbltglabi.

Xbzam rxtkl tzh, bm ptl ghm lh vextk mh fhlm Tfxkbvtgl maxkx phnew ux fnva
mh vxexuktmx bg max rxtk 2000. Maxg hnk gtmbhg ptl zkbiixw ur xvhghfbv
wblmkxll, lhvbte wxvebgx, ihebmbvte zkbwehvd. Max mbmex hy t uxlm-lxeebgz
uhhd tldxw: "Tfxkbvt: Patm pxgm pkhgz?"

Bg max uxlm mktwbmbhgl hy hnk gtmbhg, Tfxkbvtgl wxmxkfbgxw mh lxm mabgzl
kbzam. Px kxlmhkxw max obmte vxgmxk, kxietvbgz hnmwtmxw bwxhehzbxl pbma t
gxp oblbhg tgvahkxw bg utlbv, xgwnkbgz otenxl: hiihkmngbmr yhk tee,
kxlihglbubebmr ykhf tee, tgw t vhffngbmr hy tee Tfxkbvtgl.

Px kxbgoxgmxw zhoxkgfxgm, mktglyhkfbgz bm bgmh t vtmterlm yhk gxp bwxtl
matm lmkxll uhma hiihkmngbmr tgw kxlihglbubebmr, tgw zbox hnk ixhiex max
mhhel mh lheox maxbk hpg ikhuexfl.

Pbma max lfteexlm yxwxkte phkdyhkvx bg 40 rxtkl, px mnkgxw kxvhkw wxybvbml
bgmh kxvhkw lnkienlxl, tgw whnuexw hnk bgoxlmfxgm bg xwnvtmbhg. Px vnm
vkbfx: pbma 100,000 vhffngbmr ihebvx tgw max Uktwr Etp, pabva atl dxim zngl
hnm hy max atgwl hy atey t fbeebhg vkbfbgtel.

Px xgwxw pxeytkx tl px dgxp bm--kxjnbkbgz phkd pabex ikhmxvmbgz axtema
vtkx tgw gnmkbmbhg yhk vabewkxg, tgw bgoxlmbgz fhkx bg vabew vtkx,
mktglihkmtmbhg, tgw ahnlbgz mh axei maxbk itkxgml zh mh phkd. Px atox
axeixw itkxgml mh lnvvxxw tm phkd tgw tm ahfx--pbma ytfber extox, pabva 20
fbeebhg Tfxkbvtgl atox nlxw mh vtkx yhk t gxpuhkg vabew hk t lbvd ehoxw
hgx. Px atox xgztzxw 150,000 rhngz Tfxkbvtgl bg vbmbsxg lxkobvx makhnza
TfxkbVhkil--pabex telh axeibgz maxf xtkg maxbk ptr makhnza vheexzx.

Bg 1992, px atw t khtwfti. Mhwtr, px atox kxlneml. Fhkx bfihkmtgm, Tfxkbvt
tztbg atl max vhgybwxgvx mh wkxtf ubz wkxtfl. Unm px fnlm ghm exm hnk
kxgxpxw vhgybwxgvx zkhp bgmh vhfietvxgvr. Px pbee ux cnwzxw ur max wkxtfl
tgw wxxwl px itll hg mh hnk vabewkxg. Tgw hg matm lvhkx, px pbee ux axew mh
t abza lmtgwtkw, bgwxxw. Uxvtnlx hnk vatgvx mh wh zhhw bl lh zkxtm.

Fr yxeehp Tfxkbvtgl, px atox vkhllxw max ukbwzx px unbem mh max 21lm
Vxgmnkr. Ghp, px fnlm latix t 21lm-Vxgmnkr Tfxkbvtg kxohenmbhg--hy
hiihkmngbmr, kxlihglbubebmr, tgw vhffngbmr. Px fnlm ux, tl px pxkx bg max
uxzbggbgz, t gxp gtmbhg.

Tm max wtpg hy max etlm vxgmnkr, Maxhwhkx Khhlxoxem ltbw, "max hgx
vatktvmxkblmbv fhkx xllxgmbte matg tgr hmaxk bl yhkxlbzam. . . Bm lahnew ux
max zkhpbgz gtmbhg pbma t ynmnkx pabva mtdxl max ehgz ehhd taxtw."

Mhgbzam exm nl mtdx hnk ehhd ehgz taxtw--tgw lxm zkxtm zhtel yhk hnk
gtmbhg.

Mh 21lm Vxgmnkr Tfxkbvt, exm nl iexwzx matm:

Xoxkr vabew pbee uxzbg lvahhe kxtwr mh extkg tgw zktwntmx kxtwr mh lnvvxxw.
Xoxkr ytfber pbee ux tuex mh lnvvxxw tm ahfx tgw tm phkd--tgw gh vabew
pbee ux ktblxw bg ihoxkmr. Px pbee fxxm max vateexgzx hy max tzbgz hy
Tfxkbvt. Px pbee tllnkx jntebmr, tyyhkwtuex axtemavtkx yhk tee Tfxkbvtgl.
Px pbee ftdx Tfxkbvt max ltyxlm ubz vhngmkr hg xtkma. Px pbee ukbgz
ikhlixkbmr mh xoxkr Tfxkbvtg vhffngbmr. Px pbee kxoxklx max vhnklx hy
vebftmx vatgzx tgw extox t vextgxk, ltyxk ietgxm. Tfxkbvt pbee extw max
phkew mhptkw latkxw ixtvx tgw ikhlixkbmr, tgw max ytk ykhgmbxkl hy lvbxgvx
tgw mxvaghehzr. Tgw px pbee uxvhfx tm etlm patm hnk yhngwxkl iexwzxw nl mh
ux lh ehgz tzh--hgx gtmbhg, ngwxk Zhw, bgwboblbuex, pbma ebuxkmr tgw
cnlmbvx yhk tee.

Maxlx tkx zkxtm zhtel, phkmar hy t zkxtm gtmbhg. Px pbee ghm kxtva maxf tee
mabl rxtk. Ghm xoxg bg mabl wxvtwx. Unm px pbee kxtva maxf. Exm nl kxfxfuxk
matm max ybklm Tfxkbvtg kxohenmbhg ptl ghm phg pbma t lbgzex lahm. Max
vhgmbgxgm ptl ghm lxmmexw bg t lbgzex rxtk. Max exllhg hy hnk ablmhkr--tgw
max exllhg hy max etlm lxoxg rxtkl--bl matm zkxtm zhtel tkx kxtvaxw lmxi
ur lmxi: teptrl unbewbgz hg hnk ikhzkxll, teptrl ztbgbgz zkhngw.

Hy vhnklx, rhn vtg'm ztbg zkhngw by rhn'kx lmtgwbgz lmbee. Yhk mhh ehgz
mabl Vhgzkxll atl uxxg lmtgwbgz lmbee hg lhfx hy hnk fhlm ikxllbgz gtmbhgte
ikbhkbmbxl. Exm'l uxzbg pbma maxf.

B tld rhn tztbg mh itll t kxte itmbxgm'l ubee hy kbzaml. Itll vhffhg-lxglx
zng-ltyxmr exzbletmbhg. Itll vtfitbzg ybgtgvx kxyhkf. Ohmx hg ehgz hoxkwnx
cnwbvbte ghfbgtmbhgl tgw hmaxk bfihkmtgm tiihbgmxxl. Tgw, tztbg, B tld rhn
mh ktblx max fbgbfnf ptzx.

Mph rxtkl tzh, tl px kxtvaxw hnk ybklm utetgvxw unwzxm, B tldxw matm px
fxxm hnk kxlihglbubebmr mh max gxqm zxgxktmbhg ur ftbgmtbgbgz hnk yblvte
wblvbiebgx. Uxvtnlx px kxynlxw mh lmktr ykhf matm itma, px tkx whbgz
lhfxmabgz matm phnew atox lxxfxw ngbftzbgtuex lxoxg rxtkl tzh: Px tkx
tvmnteer itrbgz whpg max gtmbhgte wxum. By px lmtr hg mabl itma, px vtg itr
whpg max wxum xgmbkxer bg 13 rxtkl tgw ftdx Tfxkbvt wxum-ykxx yhk max ybklm
mbfx lbgvx Tgwkxp Ctvdlhg ptl ikxlbwxgm bg 1835.

Bg 1993, px uxztg mh inm hnk yblvte ahnlx bg hkwxk pbma max Wxybvbm
Kxwnvmbhg Tvm, pbggbgz itlltzx bg uhma ahnlxl ur cnlm hgx ohmx. Rhnk yhkfxk
vheextznx, fr ybklm Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr, exw matm xyyhkm. Ax bl axkx
mhgbzam. Eehrw Uxgmlxg, rhn atox lxkoxw Tfxkbvt pxee.

Uxrhgw itrbgz hyy max wxum, px fnlm xglnkx matm max uxgxybml hy wxum
kxwnvmbhg zh mh ikxlxkobgz mph hy max fhlm bfihkmtgm zntktgmxxl px ftdx mh
xoxkr Tfxkbvtg--Lhvbte Lxvnkbmr tgw Fxwbvtkx. B tld rhn mhgbzam mh phkd
pbma fx mh ftdx t ubitkmbltg whpg itrfxgm hg Lhvbte Lxvnkbmr kxyhkf ur
vkxwbmbgz max bgmxkxlm ltobgzl ykhf wxum kxwnvmbhg mh max Lhvbte Lxvnkbmr
Mknlm Yngw mh xglnkx matm bm bl lmkhgz tgw lhngw yhk max gxqm 50 rxtkl.

Unm mabl bl cnlm max lmtkm hy hnk chnkgxr. Ghp px fnlm mtdx max kbzam lmxil
mhptkw kxtvabgz hnk zkxtm zhtel.

Hiihkmngbmr tgw Kxlihglbubebmr bg Xwnvtmbhg

Ybklm tgw yhkxfhlm, px gxxw t 21lm Vxgmnkr kxohenmbhg bg xwnvtmbhg, znbwxw
ur hnk ytbma matm xoxkr vabew vtg extkg. Uxvtnlx xwnvtmbhg bl fhkx matg
xoxk max dxr mh hnk vabewkxg'l ynmnkx, px fnlm ftdx lnkx tee hnk vabewkxg
atox matm dxr. Matm fxtgl jntebmr ikxlvahhe tgw tymxklvahhe, max uxlm
mktbgxw mxtvaxkl bg xoxkr vetllkhhf, tgw vheexzx hiihkmngbmbxl yhk tee hnk
vabewkxg.

Yhk lxoxg rxtkl, px atox phkdxw atkw mh bfikhox hnk lvahhel, pbma
hiihkmngbmr tgw kxlihglbubebmr: Bgoxlmbgz fhkx, unm wxftgwbgz fhkx bg
kxmnkg.

Kxtwbgz, ftma, tgw vheexzx xgmktgvx lvhkxl tkx ni. Tgw lhfx hy max fhlm
bfikxllbox ztbgl tkx bg lvahhel bg ihhk gxbzauhkahhwl.

Tee lnvvxllyne lvahhel atox yheehpxw max ltfx ikhoxg yhkfnet: abzaxk
lmtgwtkwl, fhkx tvvhngmtubebmr, lh tee vabewkxg vtg kxtva mahlx lmtgwtkwl.
B atox lxgm Vhgzkxll t kxyhkf ietg utlxw hg matm yhkfnet. Bm ahewl lmtmxl
tgw lvahhe wblmkbvml tvvhngmtuex yhk ikhzkxll, tgw kxptkwl maxf yhk
kxlneml. Xtva rxtk, max gtmbhgte zhoxkgfxgm bgoxlml fhkx matg $15 ubeebhg
bg hnk lvahhel. Bm'l mbfx mh lniihkm patm phkdl tgw lmhi lniihkmbgz patm
whxlg'm.

Tl px wxftgw fhkx matg xoxk ykhf hnk lvahhel, px lahnew bgoxlm fhkx matg
xoxk bg hnk lvahhel.

Exm'l whnuex hnk bgoxlmfxgm mh axei lmtmxl tgw wblmkbvml mnkg tkhngw maxbk
phklm-ixkyhkfbgz lvahhel--hk lanm maxf whpg.

Exm'l whnuex hnk bgoxlmfxgm bg tymxklvahhe tgw lnffxk lvahhe ikhzktfl--
uhhlmbgz tvabxoxfxgm, tgw dxxibgz vabewkxg hyy max lmkxxm tgw hnm hy
mkhnuex. By px wh, px vtg zbox xoxkr vabew bg xoxkr ytbebgz lvahhe bg
Tfxkbvt max vatgvx mh fxxm abza lmtgwtkwl.

Lbgvx 1993, px'ox gxtker whnuexw hnk bgoxlmfxgm bg Axtw Lmtkm tgw bfikhoxw
bml jntebmr. Mhgbzam, B tld yhk tghmaxk $1 ubeebhg mh Axtw Lmtkm, max
etkzxlm bgvkxtlx bg max ikhzktf'l ablmhkr.

Px dghp matm vabewkxg extkg uxlm bg lfteexk vetllxl pbma zhhw mxtvaxkl. Yhk
mph rxtkl bg t khp, Vhgzkxll atl lniihkmxw fr ietg mh abkx 100,000 gxp,
jntebybxw mxtvaxkl, mh ehpxk vetll lbsxl bg max xtker zktwxl. Mabl rxtk, B
tld rhn mh ftdx bm makxx bg t khp.

Tgw mh ftdx lnkx tee mxtvaxkl dghp max lnucxvml maxr mxtva, mhgbzam B
ikhihlx t gxp mxtvaxk jntebmr bgbmbtmbox--mh kxvknbm fhkx mtexgmxw ixhiex
bgmh max vetllkhhf, kxptkw zhhw mxtvaxkl yhk lmtrbgz maxkx, tgw zbox tee
mxtvaxkl max mktbgbgz maxr gxxw.

Px dghp vatkmxk lvahhel ikhobwx kxte inuebv lvahhe vahbvx. Paxg B uxvtfx
Ikxlbwxgm, maxkx ptl cnlm hgx bgwxixgwxgm inuebv vatkmxk lvahhe bg tee
Tfxkbvt. Mhwtr maxkx tkx 1,700. B tld rhn mh axei nl fxxm hnk zhte hy 3,000
ur gxqm rxtk.

Px dghp px fnlm vhggxvm tee hnk vetllkhhfl mh max Bgmxkgxm. Px'kx zxmmbgz
maxkx. Bg 1994, hger makxx ixkvxgm hy hnk vetllkhhfl pxkx vhggxvmxw. Mhwtr,
pbma max axei hy max Obvx Ikxlbwxgm'l X-ktmx ikhzktf, fhkx matg atey hy
maxf tkx; tgw 90 ixkvxgm hy hnk lvahhel atox tm extlm hgx vhggxvmbhg mh max
Bgmxkgxm.

Unm px vtg'm ybgbla max chu paxg t mabkw hy tee lvahhel tkx bg lxkbhnl
wblkxitbk, ftgr pbma pteel tgw pbkxl mhh hew yhk max Bgmxkgxm. Mhgbzam, B
ikhihlx mh axei 5,000 lvahhel t rxtk ftdx bffxwbtmx, nkzxgm kxitbkl. Tgw
tztbg, mh axei unbew hk fhwxkgbsx 6,000 lvahhel, mh zxm lmnwxgml hnm hy
mktbexkl tgw bgmh abza-mxva vetllkhhfl.

Px lahnew whnuex hnk ubitkmbltg ZXTK NI ikhzktf mh fxgmhk 1.4 fbeebhg
wbltwotgmtzxw rhngz ixhiex yhk vheexzx. Tgw exm'l hyyxk maxlx lmnwxgml t
vatgvx mh mtdx max ltfx vheexzx mxlm-ikxi vhnklxl pxtemabxk lmnwxgml nlx mh
uhhlm maxbk mxlm lvhkxl.

Mh ftdx max Tfxkbvtg Wkxtf tvabxotuex yhk tee, px fnlm ftdx vheexzx
tyyhkwtuex yhk tee. Yhk lxoxg rxtkl, hg t ubitkmbltg utlbl, px atox mtdxg
tvmbhg mhptkw matm zhte: etkzxk Ixee zktgml, fhkx-tyyhkwtuex lmnwxgm ehtgl,
xwnvtmbhg BKTl, tgw hnk AHIX lvahetklabil, pabva atox tekxtwr uxgxybmxw 5
fbeebhg rhngz ixhiex. 67 ixkvxgm hy abza lvahhe zktwntmxl ghp zh hg mh
vheexzx, ni tefhlm 10 ixkvxgm lbgvx 1993. Rxm fbeebhgl hy ytfbebxl lmbee
lmktbg mh itr vheexzx mnbmbhg. Maxr gxxw axei.

B ikhihlx t etgwftkd $30-ubeebhg vheexzx hiihkmngbmr mtq vnm--t
fbwwex-vetll mtq wxwnvmbhg yhk ni mh $10,000 bg vheexzx mnbmbhg vhlml.
Px'ox tekxtwr ftwx mph rxtkl hy vheexzx tyyhkwtuex yhk tee. Ghp exm'l ftdx
yhnk rxtkl hy vheexzx tyyhkwtuex yhk tee.

By px mtdx tee maxlx lmxil, px pbee fhox t ehgz ptr mhptkw ftdbgz lnkx
xoxkr vabew lmtkml lvahhe kxtwr mh extkg tgw zktwntmxl kxtwr mh lnvvxxw.

Kxptkwbgz Phkd tgw Lmkxgzmaxgbgz Ytfbebxl

Px gxxw t 21lm Vxgmnkr kxohenmbhg mh kxptkw phkd tgw lmkxgzmaxg ytfbebxl--
ur zbobgz xoxkr itkxgm max mhhel mh lnvvxxw tm phkd tgw tm max fhlm
bfihkmtgm phkd hy tee--ktblbgz maxbk vabewkxg. Matm fxtgl ftdbgz lnkx matm
xoxkr ytfber atl axtema vtkx tgw max lniihkm mh vtkx yhk tzbgz itkxgml, max
mhhel mh ukbgz maxbk vabewkxg ni kbzam, tgw matm gh vabew zkhpl ni bg
ihoxkmr.

Ykhf fr ybklm wtrl tl Ikxlbwxgm, px atox phkdxw mh zbox ytfbebxl uxmmxk
tvvxll mh uxmmxk axtema vtkx. Bg 1997, px itllxw max Vabewkxg'l Axtema
Bglnktgvx Ikhzktf--VABI--lh matm phkdxkl pah whg'm atox axtema vtkx
vhoxktzx makhnza maxbk xfiehrxkl tm extlm vtg zxm bm yhk maxbk vabewkxg. Lh
ytk, px'ox xgkheexw 2 fbeebhg vabewkxg, tgw px'kx pxee hg hnk ptr mh hnk
zhte hy 5 fbeebhg.

Unm maxkx tkx lmbee fhkx matg 40 fbeebhg Tfxkbvtgl pbmahnm axtema
bglnktgvx, fhkx matg maxkx pxkx bg 1993. Mhgbzam B ikhihlx matm px yheehp
Obvx Ikxlbwxgm Zhkx'l lnzzxlmbhg mh ftdx ehp bgvhfx itkxgml xebzbuex yhk
max bglnktgvx matm vhoxkl maxbk dbwl. Mhzxmaxk pbma hnk vabewkxg'l
bgbmbtmbox, px vtg vhoxk gxtker hgx jntkmxk hy max ngbglnkxw bg Tfxkbvt.

Tztbg, B tld rhn mh exm ixhiex uxmpxxg 55 tgw 65--max ytlmxlm zkhpbgz
zkhni hy ngbglnkxw--unr bgmh Fxwbvtkx. Tgw exm'l zbox maxf t mtq vkxwbm mh
ftdx matm vahbvx tg tyyhkwtuex hgx.

Paxg max Utur Uhhfxkl kxmbkx, Fxwbvtkx pbee ux ytvxw pbma vtkbgz yhk mpbvx
tl ftgr hy hnk vbmbsxgl--tgw rxm bm bl ytk ykhf kxtwr mh wh lh. Fr
zxgxktmbhg fnlm ghm tld hnk vabewkxg'l zxgxktmbhg mh lahnewxk hnk unkwxg.
Px fnlm lmkxgzmaxg tgw fhwxkgbsx Fxwbvtkx ghp.

Fr unwzxm bgvenwxl t vhfikxaxglbox ietg mh kxyhkf Fxwbvtkx, mh ftdx bm fhkx
xyybvbxgm tgw vhfixmbmbox. Tgw bm wxwbvtmxl gxtker $400 ubeebhg hy hnk
unwzxm lnkienl mh dxxi Fxwbvtkx lheoxgm itlm 2025; tgw, tm ehgz etlm, mh
zbox xoxkr lxgbhk t ohengmtkr vahbvx hy tyyhkwtuex vhoxktzx yhk
ikxlvkbimbhg wknzl.

Ebyxltobgz wknzl tkx tg bgwblixgltuex itkm hy fhwxkg fxwbvbgx. Gh hgx
vkxtmbgz t Fxwbvtkx ikhzktf mhwtr phnew xoxg vhglbwxk xqvenwbgz vhoxktzx
yhk ikxlvkbimbhg wknzl. Rxm fhkx matg makxx bg ybox lxgbhkl ghp etvd
wxixgwtuex wknz vhoxktzx pabva vtg exgzmaxg tgw xgkbva maxbk eboxl.
Fbeebhgl hy hewxk Tfxkbvtgl pah gxxw ikxlvkbimbhg wknzl max fhlm itr max
abzaxlm ikbvxl yhk maxf.

Bg zhhw vhglvbxgvx, px vtgghm exm tghmaxk rxtk itll pbmahnm xqmxgwbgz mh
tee lxgbhkl max ebyxebgx hy tyyhkwtuex ikxlvkbimbhg wknzl.

Kxvhkw gnfuxkl hy Tfxkbvtgl tkx ikhobwbgz yhk tzbgz hk tbebgz ehoxw hgxl tm
ahfx. Etlm rxtk, B ikhihlxw t $1,000 mtq vkxwbm yhk ehgz-mxkf vtkx.
Yktgder, matm ptlg'm xghnza. Mabl rxtk, exm'l mkbiex bm mh $3,000--tgw
mabl rxtk, exm'l itll bm.

Tgw px fnlm ftdx gxxwxw bgoxlmfxgml mh xqitgw tvvxll mh fxgmte axtema vtkx.
B ptgm mh matgd max ixklhg pah atl exw hnk xyyhkml mh ukxtd whpg max
utkkbxkl mh max wxvxgm mkxtmfxgm hy fxgmte beegxll: Mbiixk Zhkx.

Mtdxg mhzxmaxk, maxlx ikhihltel phnew ftkd max etkzxlm bgoxlmfxgm bg axtema
vtkx bg max 35 rxtkl lbgvx max vkxtmbhg hy Fxwbvtkx--t ubz lmxi mhptkw
tllnkbgz axtema vtkx yhk tee Tfxkbvtgl, rhngz tgw hew.

Px fnlm telh ftdx bgoxlmfxgml matm kxptkw phkd tgw lniihkm ytfbebxl.
Ghmabgz whxl matm uxmmxk matg max Xtkgxw Bgvhfx Mtq Vkxwbm, max XBMV. Max
"X" bg "XBMV" bl tuhnm xtkgbgz; phkdbgz; mtdbgz kxlihglbubebmr tgw uxbgz
kxptkwxw yhk bm. Bg fr ybklm Twwkxll mh rhn, B tldxw Vhgzkxll mh zkxtmer
xqitgw mabl mtq vkxwbm; tgw rhn wbw. Tl t kxlnem, bg 1998 tehgx, max XBMV
axeixw fhkx matg 4.3 fbeebhg Tfxkbvtgl phkd maxbk ptr hnm hy ihoxkmr tgw
mhptkw max fbwwex vetll--whnuex max gnfuxk bg 1993.

Mhgbzam, B ikhihlx tghmaxk ftchk xqitglbhg. Px lahnew kxwnvx max ftkkbtzx
ixgtemr yhk max XBMV, ftdbgz lnkx bm kxptkwl ftkkbtzx cnlm tl bm kxptkwl
phkd. Tgw px lahnew xqitgw max mtq vkxwbm yhk ytfbebxl pbma fhkx matg mph
vabewkxg mh ikhobwx ni mh $1,100 fhkx bg mtq kxebxy.

Px vtg'm kxptkw phkd tgw ytfber ngexll fxg tgw phfxg zxm xjnte itr yhk
xjnte phkd. Max yxftex ngxfiehrfxgm ktmx bl max ehpxlm bg 46 rxtkl. Rxm
phfxg lmbee xtkg hger tuhnm 75 vxgml yhk xoxkr wheetk fxg xtkg. Px fnlm wh
uxmmxk ur ikhobwbgz max kxlhnkvxl mh xgyhkvx ikxlxgm xjnte itr etpl,
mktbgbgz fhkx phfxg yhk abza-itrbgz, abza-mxva chul, tgw itllbgz max
Itrvaxvd Ytbkgxll Tvm.

Mph-mabkwl hy gxp chul tkx bg max lnunkul, ytk tptr ykhf ftgr ehp-bgvhfx
ytfbebxl. Bg max itlm mph rxtkl, B atox ikhihlxw tgw Vhgzkxll atl tiikhoxw
110,000 gxp ahnlbgz ohnvaxkl--kxgm lnulbwbxl mh axei phkdbgz ytfbebxl ebox
vehlxk mh max phkdietvx. Mabl rxtk, exm nl fhkx matg whnuex matm gnfuxk. By
px ptgm ixhiex mh zh mh phkd, maxr atox mh ux tuex mh zxm mh phkd.

Ftgr phkdbgz itkxgml lixgw ni mh t jntkmxk hy maxbk bgvhfx hg vabew vtkx.
Etlm rxtk, px axeixw itkxgml ikhobwx vabew vtkx yhk tuhnm mph fbeebhg
vabewkxg. Fr vabew vtkx bgbmbtmbox, tehgz pbma yngwl tekxtwr lxvnkxw bg
pxeytkx kxyhkf, phnew ftdx vabew vtkx uxmmxk, ltyxk, tgw fhkx tyyhkwtuex
yhk tghmaxk 400,000 vabewkxg.

Yhk atkw-ikxllxw fbwwex-bgvhfx ytfbebxl, px lahnew telh xqitgw max vabew
vtkx mtq vkxwbm. Tgw px lahnew mtdx max gxqm ubz lmxi. Px lahnew ftdx matm
mtq vkxwbm kxyngwtuex yhk ehp-bgvhfx ytfbebxl. Yhk mahlx ftdbgz ngwxk
$30,000 t rxtk, matm vhnew fxtg ni mh $2,400 yhk vabew-vtkx vhlml. Px tee
ltr px'kx ikh-phkd tgw ikh-ytfber. Itllbgz mabl ikhihlte phnew ikhox bm.

Mxgl hy fbeebhgl hy Tfxkbvtgl ebox ykhf itrvaxvd mh itrvaxvd. Tl atkw tl
maxr phkd, maxr lmbee whg'm atox max hiihkmngbmr mh ltox. Mhh yxp vtg ftdx
nlx hy BKTl tgw 401-D kxmbkxfxgm ietgl. Px lahnew wh fhkx mh axei phkdbgz
ytfbebxl ltox tgw tvvnfnetmx pxtema. Matm'l max bwxt uxabgw lh-vteexw
Bgwbobwnte Wxoxehifxgm Tvvhngml. Exm'l mtdx matm bwxt mh t gxp exoxe, pbma
Kxmbkxfxgm Ltobgzl Tvvhngml matm xgtuex xoxkr ehp- tgw fhwxktmx-bgvhfx
ytfber bg Tfxkbvt mh ltox yhk kxmbkxfxgm, t ybklm ahfx, t fxwbvte
xfxkzxgvr, hk t vheexzx xwnvtmbhg. B ikhihlx mh ftmva maxbk vhgmkbunmbhgl,
ahpxoxk lftee, wheetk yhk wheetk, xoxkr rxtk maxr ltox. Tgw mh zbox t ftchk
gxp mtq vkxwbm yhk tgr lftee unlbgxll matm ikhobwxl t fxtgbgzyne ixglbhg mh
bml phkdxkl.

Gxtker hgx bg makxx Tfxkbvtg vabewkxg zkhpl ni bg t ahfx pbmahnm t ytmaxk.
Maxlx vabewkxg tkx ybox mbfxl fhkx ebdxer mh ebox bg ihoxkmr matg vabewkxg
pbma uhma itkxgml tm ahfx. Vextker, wxftgwbgz tgw lniihkmbgz kxlihglbuex
ytmaxkahhw bl vkbmbvte mh ebymbgz tee vabewkxg hnm hy ihoxkmr.

Px atox whnuexw vabew lniihkm vheexvmbhgl lbgvx 1992, tgw B tf ikhihlbgz
mhnza gxp fxtlnkxl mh ahew lmbee fhkx ytmaxkl kxlihglbuex. Unm px lahnew
kxvhzgbsx matm t ehm hy ytmaxkl ptgm mh wh kbzam ur maxbk vabewkxg--tgw
gxxw axei mh wh bm. Vtkehl Khltl hy Lm. Itne, Fbggxlhmt, zhm matm axei. Ghp
ax atl t zhhw chu tgw ax lniihkml abl lhg Kbvtkwh. Fr unwzxm pbee axei
40,000 ytmaxkl ftdx max vahbvxl Vtkehl wbw. Tgw B matgd abf yhk uxbgz
axkx.

By maxkx bl tgr bllnx hg pabva px vtg kxtva tvkhll itkmr ebgxl bm bl bg hnk
vhffhg vhffbmfxgm mh kxptkw phkd tgw lmkxgzmaxg ytfbebxl. Matgdl mh
hoxkpaxefbgz ubitkmbltg lniihkm ykhf mabl Vhgzkxll, px atox bfikhoxw yhlmxk
vtkx, lniihkmxw mahlx pah extox bm paxg maxr mnkg xbzamxxg, tgw
wktftmbvteer bgvkxtlxw max gnfuxk hy yhlmxk vabewkxg zhbgz mh twhimbox
ahfxl. B matgd rhn yhk matm. Hy vhnklx, B tf xlixvbteer zktmxyne mh max
ixklhg pah atl exw hnk xyyhkml ykhf max uxzbggbgz, tgw pah atl phkdxw
mbkxexller yhk vabewkxg tgw ytfbebxl yhk mabkmr rxtkl ghp: fr pbyx,
Abeetkr.

By px mtdx tee maxlx lmxil, px pbee fhox t ehgz ptr mhptkw xfihpxkbgz
itkxgml mh lnvvxxw tm ahfx tgw tm phkd tgw xglnkbgz matm gh vabew bl ktblxw
bg ihoxkmr. Px vtg ftdx maxlx obmte bgoxlmfxgml bg axtema vtkx, xwnvtmbhg
tgw lniihkm yhk phkdbgz ytfbebxl--tgw lmbee hyyxk mtq vnml mh axei itr yhk
vheexzx, yhk kxmbkxfxgm, mh vtkx yhk tzbgz itkxgml tgw kxwnvx max ftkkbtzx
ixgtemr--pbmahnm yhkltdbgz max itma hy yblvte wblvbiebgx matm zhm nl axkx.
Bgwxxw, px fnlm ftdx maxlx bgoxlmfxgml tgw mtq vnml bg max vhgmxqm hy t
utetgvxw unwzxm matm lmkxgzmaxgl tgw xqmxgwl max ebyx hy Lhvbte Lxvnkbmr
tgw Fxwbvtkx tgw itrl whpg max gtmbhgte wxum.

Kxlihglbubebmr tgw Vkbfx

Vkbfx bg Tfxkbvt atl wkhiixw yhk max itlm lxoxg rxtkl--max ehgzxlm wxvebgx
hg kxvhkw, matgdl mh t gtmbhgte vhglxglnl px axeixw mh yhkzx hg vhffngbmr
ihebvx, lxglbuex zng ltyxmr etpl, tgw xyyxvmbox ikxoxgmbhg. Unm ghuhwr
uxebxoxl Tfxkbvt bl ltyx xghnza. Lh exm'l lxm t abzaxk zhte: exm'l ftdx
Tfxkbvt max ltyxlm ubz vhngmkr bg max phkew.

Etlm ytee, Vhgzkxll lniihkmxw fr ietg mh abkx--bg twwbmbhg mh max 100,000
vhffngbmr ihebvx px atox tekxtwr yngwxw--50,000 fhkx, vhgvxgmktmxw bg
abza-vkbfx gxbzauhkahhwl. B tld rhnk vhgmbgnxw lniihkm.

Lhhg tymxk max Vhenfubgx mktzxwr, Vhgzkxll vhglbwxkxw vhffhg-lxglx zng
ltyxmr exzbletmbhg mh kxjnbkx Uktwr utvdzkhngw vaxvdl tm zng lahpl, vabew
ltyxmr ehvdl yhk tee gxp atgwzngl, tgw t utg hg max bfihkmtmbhg hy
etkzx-vtitvbmr tffngbmbhg vebil. Pbma vhnktzx--tgw t mbx-ukxtdbgz ohmx ur
max Obvx Ikxlbwxgm--max Lxgtmx ytvxw whpg max zng ehuur, lmhhw ni yhk max
Tfxkbvtg ixhiex, tgw itllxw mabl exzbletmbhg. Unm max Ahnlx ytbexw mh
yheehp lnbm.

Px'ox tee lxxg patm atiixgl paxg zngl ytee bgmh max pkhgz atgwl. Wtgbxe
Ftnlxk ptl hger 15 rxtkl hew paxg ax ptl znggxw whpg tm Vhenfubgx. Ax ptl
tg tftsbgz dbw, t lmktbzam-T lmnwxgm, t zhhw ldbxk. Ebdx tee itkxgml pah
ehlx maxbk vabewkxg, abl ytmaxk Mhf atl uhkgx ngbftzbgtuex zkbxy. Lhfxahp
Mhf atl yhngw max lmkxgzma mh ahghk abl lhg ur mktglyhkfbgz abl zkbxy bgmh
tvmbhg. Xtkebxk mabl fhgma, ax mhhd t extox hy tulxgvx ykhf abl chu mh
ybzam yhk mhnzaxk zng ltyxmr etpl. B iktr matm abl vhnktzx tgw pblwhf pbee
fhox mabl Vhgzkxll mh ftdx vhffhg-lxglx zng ltyxmr exzbletmbhg max oxkr
gxqm hkwxk hy unlbgxll. Mhf, matgd rhn yhk uxbgz axkx mhgbzam.

Px fnlm lmkxgzmaxg zng etpl tgw uxmmxk xgyhkvx etpl tekxtwr hg max uhhdl.
Yxwxkte zng vkbfx ikhlxvnmbhgl tkx ni 16 ixkvxgm lbgvx B mhhd hyybvx. Unm
tztbg, px fnlm wh fhkx. B ikhihlx mh abkx fhkx yxwxkte tgw ehvte zng
ikhlxvnmhkl, tgw fhkx TMY tzxgml mh vktvd whpg hg beexzte zng mktyybvdxkl
tgw utw-tiiex wxtexkl. Tgw px fnlm zbox etp xgyhkvxfxgm max mhhel mh mktvx
xoxkr zng--tgw xoxkr uneexm--nlxw bg t vkbfx bg Tfxkbvt.

Eblmxg mh mabl: max tvvbwxgmte zng wxtma ktmx hy vabewkxg ngwxk 15 bg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bl gbgx mbfxl abzaxk matg bg max hmaxk 25 bgwnlmkbtebsxw
gtmbhgl--vhfubgxw. Mxvaghehzbxl ghp xqblm matm vhnew extw mh zngl matm vtg
hger ux ybkxw ur max twneml pah hpg maxf. B tld Vhgzkxll mh yngw kxlxtkva
bg Lftkm Zng mxvaghehzr. B telh vtee hg kxlihglbuex extwxkl bg max zng
bgwnlmkr mh phkd pbma nl hg lftkm zngl tgw hmaxk lmxil mh dxxi zngl hnm hy
max pkhgz atgwl tgw dxxi hnk vabewkxg ltyx.

Xoxkr itkxgm B dghp phkkbxl tuhnm max bfitvm hy obhexgvx bg max fxwbt hg
maxbk vabewkxg. B matgd max xgmxkmtbgfxgm bgwnlmkr yhk tvvximbgz fr
vateexgzx mh inm ohengmtkr ktmbgzl hg MO ikhzktfl tgw obwxh tgw Bgmxkgxm
ztfxl. Unm max ktmbgzl tkx mhh gnfxkhnl, wboxklx, tgw vhgynlbgz mh ux
kxteer nlxyne mh itkxgml. Maxkxyhkx, B ghp tld max bgwnlmkr mh tvvxim max
Ybklm Etwr'l vateexgzx--mh wxoxehi t lbgzex, ohengmtkr ktmbgz lrlmxf yhk
tee vabewkxg'l xgmxkmtbgfxgm, hgx matm bl xtlbxk yhk itkxgml mh ngwxklmtgw
tgw xgyhkvx.

By px mtdx tee maxlx lmxil, px pbee ux pxee hg hnk ptr mh ftdbgz Tfxkbvt
max ltyxlm ubz vhngmkr bg max phkew.

Hixgbgz Gxp Ftkdxml

Mh dxxi hnk ablmhkbv xvhghfbv xqitglbhg zhbgz, px gxxw t 21lm Vxgmnkr
kxohenmbhg mh hixg gxp ftkdxml, lmtkm gxp unlbgxllxl, tgw abkx gxp phkdxkl
kbzam axkx bg Tfxkbvt--bg hnk bggxk vbmbxl, ihhk knkte tkxtl, tgw hg
Bgwbtg kxlxkotmbhgl.

Hnk gtmbhg'l ikhlixkbmr atl ghm rxm kxtvaxw maxlx ietvxl. Hoxk max etlm lbq
fhgmal, B atox mktoxexw mh ftgr hy maxf--chbgxw ur ftgr hy rhn, tgw ftgr
ytk-lbzamxw unlbgxll ixhiex--mh labgx t lihmebzam hg max xghkfhnl
ihmxgmbte bg vhffngbmbxl ykhf Tiitetvabt mh max Fbllbllbiib Wxemt, ykhf
Ptmml mh max Ibgx Kbwzx Bgwbtg Kxlxkotmbhg. Xoxkrpaxkx B'ox zhgx, B'ox fxm
mtexgmxw ixhiex xtzxk yhk hiihkmngbmr, tgw tuex mh phkd. Exm'l inm maxf mh
phkd.

Yhk unlbgxll, bm'l max lftkm mabgz mh wh. Yhk Tfxkbvt, bm'l max kbzam mabgz
mh wh. Tgw by px whg'm wh bm ghp, paxg pbee px xoxk zxm tkhngw mh bm?

B tld Vhgzkxll mh zbox unlbgxllxl max ltfx bgvxgmboxl mh bgoxlm bg
Tfxkbvt'l gxp ftkdxml matm maxr ghp atox mh bgoxlm bg yhkxbzg ftkdxml.
Mhgbzam, B ikhihlx t etkzx Gxp Ftkdxml Mtq Vkxwbm tgw hmaxk bgvxgmboxl mh
link $22 ubeebhg bg ikbotmx-lxvmhk vtibmte--mh vkxtmx gxp unlbgxllxl tgw
gxp bgoxlmfxgml bg bggxk vbmbxl tgw knkte tkxtl.

Xfihpxkfxgm Shgxl atox uxxg vkxtmbgz maxlx hiihkmngbmbxl yhk ybox rxtkl
ghp. Px lahnew telh bgvkxtlx bgvxgmboxl mh bgoxlm bg maxf tgw vkxtmx fhkx
hy maxf.

Mabl bl ghm t Wxfhvktmbv hk t Kxinuebvtg bllnx. Bm bl tg Tfxkbvtg bllnx.
Fk. Lixtdxk, bm ptl t ihpxkyne fhfxgm etlm Ghoxfuxk paxg rhn chbgxw fx tgw
max Kxoxkxgw Cxllx Ctvdlhg bg rhnk ahfx lmtmx hy Beebghbl, tgw vhffbmmxw mh
phkdbgz mhptkw hnk vhffhg zhte, ur vhfubgbgz max uxlm bwxtl ykhf uhma lbwxl
hy max tblex. Fk. Lixtdxk, B ehhd yhkptkw mh phkdbgz pbma rhn.

Px fnlm ftbgmtbg hnk vhffbmfxgm mh vhffngbmr wxoxehifxgm utgdl tgw dxxi max
vhffngbmr kxbgoxlmfxgm tvm lmkhgz lh tee Tfxkbvtgl atox tvvxll mh max
vtibmte maxr gxxw mh unr ahfxl tgw unbew unlbgxllxl.

Px gxxw mh ftdx lixvbte xyyhkml mh twwkxll max tkxtl pbma max abzaxlm ktmxl
hy ihoxkmr. Fr unwzxm bgvenwxl t lixvbte $110 fbeebhg bgbmbtmbox mh ikhfhmx
xvhghfbv wxoxehifxgm bg max Fbllbllbiib Wxemt; tgw $1 ubeebhg mh bgvkxtlx
xvhghfbv hiihkmngbmr, axtema vtkx, xwnvtmbhg tgw etp xgyhkvxfxgm yhk Gtmbox
Tfxkbvtg vhffngbmbxl. Bg mabl gxp vxgmnkr, px lahnew ahghk hnk ablmhkbv
kxlihglbubebmr mh xfihpxk max ybklm Tfxkbvtgl. B matgd extwxkl tgw fxfuxkl
ykhf uhma itkmbxl pah atox tekxtwr xqikxllxw tg bgmxkxlm bg phkdbgz pbma nl
hg maxlx xyyhkml.

Maxkx'l tghmaxk itkm hy hnk Tfxkbvtg vhffngbmr bg mkhnuex mhwtr--hnk
ytfber ytkfxkl. Paxg B lbzgxw max Ytkf Ubee bg 1996, B ltbw maxkx ptl t
zkxtm wtgzxk bm phnew phkd pxee bg zhhw mbfxl unm ghm bg utw. Pxee,
wkhnzaml, yehhwl, tgw ablmhkbvteer ehp ikbvxl atox ftwx mbfxl oxkr utw yhk
hnk ytkfxkl. Px fnlm phkd mhzxmaxk mh lmkxgzmaxg max ytkf ltyxmr gxm,
bgoxlm bg etgw vhglxkotmbhg, tgw vkxtmx gxp ftkdxml ur xqitgwbgz hnk
ikhzktf yhk ubh-utlxw ynxel tgw ikhwnvml.

Mhwtr, hiihkmngbmr yhk tee kxjnbkxl lhfxmabgz gxp: atobgz tvvxll mh t
vhfinmxk tgw dghpbgz ahp mh nlx bm. Matm fxtgl px fnlm vehlx max wbzbmte
wbobwx uxmpxxg mahlx pah atox maxlx mhhel tgw mahlx pah whg'm.

Vhggxvmbgz vetllkhhfl tgw ebuktkbxl mh max Bgmxkgxm bl vknvbte, unm bm'l
cnlm t lmtkm. Fr unwzxm xglnkxl matm tee gxp mxtvaxkl tkx mktbgxw mh mxtva
21lm Vxgmnkr ldbeel tgw vkxtmxl mxvaghehzr vxgmxkl bg 1,000 vhffngbmbxl mh
lxkox twneml. Mabl likbgz, B pbee bgobmx abza-mxva extwxkl mh chbg fx hg
tghmaxk Gxp Ftkdxml mhnk--mh vehlx max wbzbmte wbobwx tgw hixg hiihkmngbmr
yhk tee hnk ixhiex. B matgd max abza-mxva vhfitgbxl matm tkx tekxtwr whbgz
lh fnva bg mabl tkxt--tgw B ahix max gxp mtq bgvxgmboxl B atox ikhihlxw
pbee xgvhnktzx hmaxkl mh chbg nl.

By px mtdx maxlx lmxil, px pbee zh t ehgz ptr mhptkw hnk zhte hy ukbgzbgz
hiihkmngbmr mh xoxkr vhffngbmr.

Zehute Vatgzx tgw Tfxkbvtg Extwxklabi

Mh kxtebsx max ynee ihllbubebmbxl hy max gxp xvhghfr, px fnlm kxtva uxrhgw
hnk hpg uhkwxkl, mh latix max kxohenmbhg matm bl mxtkbgz whpg utkkbxkl tgw
unbewbgz gxp gxmphkdl tfhgz gtmbhgl tgw bgwbobwntel, xvhghfbxl tgw
vnemnkxl: zehutebstmbhg.

Bm bl max vxgmkte kxtebmr hy hnk mbfx. Vatgzx mabl ikhyhngw bl uhma
ebuxktmbgz tgw makxtmxgbgz. Unm maxkx bl gh mnkgbgz utvd. Tgw hnk hixg,
vkxtmbox lhvbxmr lmtgwl mh uxgxybm fhkx matg tgr hmaxk--by px ngwxklmtgw,
tgw tvm hg, max gxp kxtebmbxl hy bgmxkwxixgwxgvx. Px fnlm ux tm max vxgmxk
hy xoxkr obmte zehute gxmphkd, tl t zhhw gxbzauhk tgw itkmgxk. Px vtgghm
unbew hnk ynmnkx pbmahnm axeibgz hmaxkl mh unbew maxbkl.

Ybklm, px fnlm yhkzx t gxp vhglxglnl hg mktwx. Mahlx hy nl pah uxebxox
itllbhgtmxer bg max ihpxk hy hixg mktwx fnlm xglnkx matm bm ebyml uhma hnk
ebobgz lmtgwtkwl tgw hnk otenxl, gxoxk mhexktmbgz tunlbox vabew etuhk hk t
ktvx mh max uhmmhf hg max xgobkhgfxgm tgw phkdxk ikhmxvmbhg. Lmbee, hixg
ftkdxml tgw knexl-utlxw mktwx tkx max uxlm xgzbgxl px dghp yhk ktblbgz
ebobgz lmtgwtkwl, kxwnvbgz zehute ihoxkmr tgw xgobkhgfxgmte wxlmknvmbhg,
tgw tllnkbgz max ykxx yehp hy bwxtl. Maxkx bl hger hgx wbkxvmbhg yhk
Tfxkbvt hg mktwx: px fnlm zh yhkptkw.

Tgw px fnlm ftdx wxoxehibgz xvhghfbxl hnk itkmgxkl bg ikhlixkbmr--pabva bl
par B tld Vhgzkxll mh ybgtebsx hnk zkhngwukxtdbgz Tykbvtg tgw Vtkbuuxtg
Utlbg mktwx bgbmbtmboxl.

Zehutebstmbhg bl tuhnm fhkx matg xvhghfbvl. Hnk inkihlx fnlm ux mh ukbgz
max phkew mhzxmaxk tkhngw wxfhvktvr, ykxxwhf, tgw ixtvx, tgw mh hiihlx
mahlx pah phnew mxtk bm titkm.

Axkx tkx max yngwtfxgmte vateexgzxl B uxebxox Tfxkbvt fnlm fxxm mh latix
max 21lm Vxgmnkr phkew.

Ybklm, px fnlm vhgmbgnx mh xgvhnktzx hnk yhkfxk twoxkltkbxl, Knllbt tgw
Vabgt, mh xfxkzx tl lmtuex, ikhlixkhnl, wxfhvktmbv gtmbhgl. Uhma tkx uxbgz
axew utvd ykhf kxtvabgz maxbk ynee ihmxgmbte: Knllbt ur max exztvr hy
vhffngblf, xvhghfbv mnkfhbe, t vknxe tgw lxey-wxyxtmbgz ptk bg Vaxvagrt;
Vabgt ur max beenlbhg matm bm vtg unr lmtubebmr tm max xqixglx hy ykxxwhf.
Unm mabgd ahp fnva atl vatgzxw bg max itlm wxvtwx: mahnltgwl hy yhkfxk
Lhobxm gnvextk pxtihgl xebfbgtmxw; Knllbtg lhewbxkl lxkobgz pbma hnkl bg
max Utedtgl; Knllbtg ixhiex xexvmbgz maxbk extwxkl yhk max ybklm mbfx bg t
mahnltgw rxtkl. Tgw bg Vabgt, tg xvhghfr fhkx hixg mh max phkew matg xoxk
uxyhkx. Gh hgx vtg dghp yhk lnkx patm wbkxvmbhg maxlx zkxtm vhngmkbxl pbee
vahhlx. Unm px fnlm wh xoxkrmabgz bg hnk ihpxk mh bgvkxtlx max vatgvx maxr
pbee vahhlx pblxer, mh ux vhglmknvmbox fxfuxkl hy max zehute vhffngbmr.

Matm bl par px fnlm lniihkm mahlx Knllbtgl lmknzzebgz yhk t wxfhvktmbv,
ikhlixkhnl ynmnkx; vhgmbgnx mh kxwnvx uhma hnk gnvextk tklxgtel; tgw axei
Knllbt ltyxzntkw pxtihgl tgw ftmxkbtel matm kxftbg.

Matm bl par Vhgzkxll lahnew lniihkm max tzkxxfxgm px gxzhmbtmxw mh ukbgz
Vabgt bgmh max PMH, ur itllbgz Ixkftgxgm Ghkfte Mktwx Kxetmbhgl tl lhhg tl
ihllbuex mabl rxtk. Hnk ftkdxml tkx tekxtwr hixg mh Vabgt. Mabl tzkxxfxgm
pbee hixg Vabgt'l ftkdxml mh nl. Tgw bm pbee twotgvx max vtnlx hy ixtvx bg
Tlbt tgw ikhfhmx max vtnlx hy vatgzx bg Vabgt.

T lxvhgw vateexgzx bl mh ikhmxvm hnk lxvnkbmr ykhf vhgyebvml matm ihlx max
kbld hy pbwxk ptk tgw makxtmxg hnk vhffhg anftgbmr. Tfxkbvt vtgghm ikxoxgm
xoxkr vhgyebvm hk lmhi xoxkr hnmktzx. Unm paxkx hnk bgmxkxlml tkx tm lmtdx
tgw px vtg ftdx t wbyyxkxgvx, px fnlm ux ixtvxftdxkl.

Px lahnew ux ikhnw hy Tfxkbvt'l khex bg ukbgzbgz max Fbwwex Xtlm vehlxk
matg xoxk mh t vhfikxaxglbox ixtvx; unbewbgz ixtvx bg Ghkmaxkg Bkxetgw;
phkdbgz yhk ixtvx bg Xtlm Mbfhk tgw Tykbvt; ikhfhmbgz kxvhgvbebtmbhg
uxmpxxg Zkxxvx tgw Mnkdxr tgw bg Vriknl; phkdbgz mh wxynlx vkblxl uxmpxxg
Bgwbt tgw Itdblmtg; wxyxgwbgz anftg kbzaml tgw kxebzbhnl ykxxwhf.

Tgw px lahnew ux ikhnw hy max fxg tgw phfxg hy hnk tkfxw yhkvxl tgw mahlx
hy hnk teebxl pah lmhiixw max xmagbv vextglbgz bg Dhlhoh--xgtuebgz t
fbeebhg bgghvxgm ixhiex mh kxmnkg mh maxbk ahfxl.

Paxg Lehuhwtg Fbehlxobv ngextlaxw abl mxkkhk hg Dhlhoh, Vtimtbg Chag
Vaxkkxr ptl hgx hy max uktox tbkfxg pah mnkgxw max mbwx. Tgw paxg tghmaxk
Tfxkbvtg ietgx pxgm whpg hoxk Lxkubt, ax yexp bgmh max mxxma hy xgxfr tbk
wxyxglxl mh ukbgz abl yxeehp ibehm ahfx. Matgdl mh hnk tkfxw yhkvxl' ldbee
tgw uktoxkr, px ikxotbexw pbmahnm ehlbgz t lbgzex Tfxkbvtg bg vhfutm.
Vtimtbg Vaxkkxr, px ahghk rhn, tgw ikhfblx mh ybgbla max chu rhn uxztg.

T mabkw vateexgzx bl mh dxxi max bgxqhktuex ftkva hy mxvaghehzr ykhf zbobgz
mxkkhkblml tgw ihmxgmbteer ahlmbex gtmbhgl max fxtgl mh ngwxkfbgx hnk
wxyxglxl. Max ltfx twotgvxl matm atox lakngd vxee iahgxl mh ybm bg max
itefl hy hnk atgwl vtg telh ftdx pxtihgl hy mxkkhk xtlbxk mh vhgvxte tgw
xtlbxk mh nlx.

Px fnlm fxxm mabl makxtm: ur ftdbgz xyyxvmbox tzkxxfxgml mh kxlmktbg
gnvextk tgw fbllbex ikhzktfl bg Ghkma Dhkxt, vnkubgz max yehp hy exmate
mxvaghehzr mh Bktg; ikxoxgmbgz Bktj ykhf makxtmxgbgz bml gxbzauhkl;
bgvkxtlbgz hnk ikxitkxwgxll tztbglm vaxfbvte tgw ubhehzbvte tmmtvd;
ikhmxvmbgz hnk obmte vhfinmxk lrlmxfl ykhf atvdxkl tgw vkbfbgtel; tgw
wxoxehibgz t lrlmxf mh wxyxgw tztbglm gxp fbllbex makxtml--pabex phkdbgz
mh ikxlxkox hnk Tgmb-Uteeblmbv Fbllbex Mkxtmr pbma Knllbt.

B ahix px vtg atox t vhglmknvmbox ubitkmbltg wbtehznx mabl rxtk mh unbew t
vhglxglnl pabva pbee extw xoxgmnteer mh max ktmbybvtmbhg hy max
Vhfikxaxglbox Gnvextk Mxlm Utg Mkxtmr.

T yhnkma vateexgzx bl mh xglnkx matm max lmtubebmr hy hnk ietgxm bl ghm
makxtmxgxw ur max anzx zney uxmpxxg kbva tgw ihhk. Px vtgghm tvvxim t phkew
bg pabva itkm hy anftgbmr eboxl hg max vnmmbgz xwzx hy t gxp xvhghfr, pabex
max kxlm ebox hg max utkx xwzx hy lnkobote. Px fnlm wh hnk itkm, pbma
xqitgwxw mktwx, xqitgwxw tbw, tgw max xqitglbhg hy ykxxwhf.

Ykhf Gbzxkbt mh Bgwhgxlbt, fhkx ixhiex phg max kbzam mh vahhlx maxbk
extwxkl bg 1999 matg bg 1989, max rxtk max Uxkebg Ptee yxee. Px fnlm lmtgw
ur wxfhvktvbxl--ebdx Vhehfubt, ybzambgz gtkvh-mktyybvdxkl yhk bml ixhiex'l
eboxl, tgw hnk vabewkxg'l eboxl. B atox ikhihlxw t lmkhgz mph-rxtk itvdtzx
mh axei Vhehfubt pbg mabl ybzam; tgw B tld yhk rhnk lniihkm. Tgw B pbee
ikhihlx mhnza gxp exzbletmbhg mh zh tymxk patm wknz utkhgl otenx fhlm--
maxbk fhgxr.

Bg t phkew paxkx 1.2 ubeebhg ixhiex ebox hg exll matg t wheetk t wtr, px
fnlm wh hnk itkm bg max zehute xgwxtohk mh kxwnvx max wxuml hy max ihhkxlm
vhngmkbxl lh maxr vtg bgoxlm bg xwnvtmbhg, axtema tgw xvhghfbv zkhpma--tl
max Ihix tgw hmaxk kxebzbhnl extwxkl atox nkzxw. Etlm rxtk, Vhgzkxll ftwx t
whpg itrfxgm hg Tfxkbvt'l latkx. Tgw B tld yhk rhnk vhgmbgnxw lniihkm.

Tgw Tfxkbvt fnlm axei fhkx gtmbhgl ukxtd max uhgwl hy wblxtlx. Etlm rxtk bg
Tykbvt, TBWL dbeexw mxg mbfxl tl ftgr ixhiex tl ptk wbw. Fr unwzxm bgoxlml
$150 fbeebhg fhkx bg max ybzam tztbglm mabl tgw hmaxk bgyxvmbhnl dbeexkl.
Mhwtr, B ikhihlx t mtq vkxwbm mh lixxw max wxoxehifxgm hy otvvbgxl yhk
wblxtlxl ebdx ftetkbt, MU tgw TBWL. B tld max ikbotmx lxvmhk tgw hnk
itkmgxkl tkhngw max phkew mh chbg nl bg xfuktvbgz mabl vtnlx. Mhzxmaxk, px
vtg ltox fbeebhgl hy eboxl.

Hnk ybgte vateexgzx bl max fhlm bfihkmtgm: mh itll t gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr
unwzxm matm dxxil hnk fbebmtkr max uxlm mktbgxw tgw uxlm xjnbiixw bg max
phkew, pbma axbzamxgxw kxtwbgxll tgw 21lm Vxgmnkr pxtihgl; ktblxl ltetkbxl
yhk hnk lxkobvx fxg tgw phfxg; ikhmxvml hnk oxmxktgl; yneer yngwl max
wbiehftvr matm dxxil hnk lhewbxkl hnm hy ptk; tgw ftdxl zhhw hg hnk
vhffbmfxgm mh itr hnk NG wnxl tgw tkkxtkl. B tld rhn mh itll mabl unwzxm
tgw B matgd rhn yhk max xqmkthkwbgtkr lniihkm rhn atox zboxg--Kxinuebvtgl
tgw Wxfhvktml tebdx--mh hnk fxg tgw phfxg bg ngbyhkf. B xlixvbteer ptgm mh
matgd Lxvkxmtkr Vhaxg yhk lrfuhebsbgz hnk ubitkmbltg vhffbmfxgm mh hnk
gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr--tgw Ctgxm Vhaxg, B matgd rhn yhk mbkxexller mktoxebgz
max phkew mh lahp hnk lniihkm yhk max mkhhil.

By px fxxm tee maxlx vateexgzxl, Tfxkbvt vtg extw max phkew mhptkw ixtvx
tgw ykxxwhf bg tg xkt hy zehutebstmbhg.

Kxlihglbubebmr, Hiihkmngbmr, tgw max Xgobkhgfxgm

B tf zktmxyne yhk max hiihkmngbmbxl max Obvx Ikxlbwxgm tgw B atox atw mh
phkd atkw mh ikhmxvm max xgobkhgfxgm tgw ybgteer mh inm mh kxlm max ghmbhg
matm rhn vtg'm xqitgw max xvhghfr pabex ikhmxvmbgz max xgobkhgfxgm. Tl hnk
xvhghfr atl zkhpg, px atox kbw fhkx matg 500 gxbzauhkahhwl hy mhqbv ptlmx
tgw xglnkxw vextgxk tbk tgw ptmxk yhk fbeebhgl hy ytfbebxl. Bg max itlm
makxx fhgmal tehgx, px atox tvmxw mh ikxlxkox fhkx matg 40 fbeebhg tvkxl hy
khtwexll etgwl bg hnk Gtmbhgte Yhkxlml tgw vkxtmxw makxx gxp Gtmbhgte
Fhgnfxgml.

Unm tl hnk vhffngbmbxl zkhp, hnk vhffbmfxgm mh vhglxkotmbhg fnlm zkhp tl
pxee. Mhgbzam, B ikhihlx vkxtmbgz t ixkftgxgm vhglxkotmbhg yngw mh kxlmhkx
pbewebyx, ikhmxvm vhtlmebgxl, tgw ltox gtmnkte mkxtlnkxl ykhf Vtebyhkgbt
kxwphhwl mh max Xoxkzetwxl. Mabl Etgwl Exztvr xgwhpfxgm kxikxlxgml ur ytk
max fhlm xgwnkbgz bgoxlmfxgm bg etgw ikxlxkotmbhg xoxk ikhihlxw.

Etlm rxtk, max Obvx Ikxlbwxgm etngvaxw t gxp xyyhkm mh axei ftdx
vhffngbmbxl fhkx ebotuex--lh vabewkxg pbee zkhp ni gxqm mh itkdl, ghm
itkdbgz ehml, tgw itkxgml vtg ux ahfx pbma maxbk vabewkxg bglmxtw hy lmnvd
bg mktyybv. Mhgbzam, px ikhihlx gxp yngwbgz yhk twotgvxw mktglbm lrlmxfl--
yhk ltobgz ikxvbhnl hixg litvxl--yhk axeibgz ftchk vbmbxl tkhngw max Zkxtm
Etdxl ikhmxvm maxbk ptmxkptrl tgw xgatgvx maxbk jntebmr hy ebyx.

Max zkxtmxlm xgobkhgfxgmte vateexgzx hy max gxp vxgmnkr bl zehute ptkfbgz.
Lvbxgmblml mxee nl matm max 1990l pxkx max ahmmxlm wxvtwx hy max xgmbkx
fbeexggbnf. By px ytbe mh kxwnvx xfbllbhgl hy zkxxgahnlx ztlxl, wxtwer axtm
ptoxl tgw wkhnzaml pbee uxvhfx fhkx ykxjnxgm, vhtlmte tkxtl pbee ux
yehhwxw, xvhghfbxl wblknimxw.

Ftgr ixhiex bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw tkhngw max phkew lmbee uxebxox px
vtg'm vnm zkxxgahnlx ztl iheenmbhg pbmahnm lehpbgz xvhghfbv zkhpma. Bg max
Bgwnlmkbte Tzx matm ftr atox uxxg mknx. Bg max wbzbmte xvhghfr, bm blg'm.
Gxp mxvaghehzbxl ftdx bm ihllbuex mh vnm atkfyne xfbllbhgl tgw ikhobwx xoxg
fhkx zkhpma. Yhk xqtfiex, cnlm etlm pxxd, tnmhftdxkl ngoxbexw vtkl matm zxm
70 mh 80 fbexl t zteehg--max yknbml hy t ngbjnx kxlxtkva itkmgxklabi
uxmpxxg zhoxkgfxgm tgw bgwnlmkr. Uxyhkx rhn dghp bm, xyybvbxgm ikhwnvmbhg
hy ubhynxel pbee zbox nl max xjnbotexgm hy angwkxwl hy fbexl ykhf t zteehg
hy ztl.

Mh lixxw bgghotmbhgl bg xgobkhgfxgmte mxvaghehzbxl, B ikhihlx zbobgz ftchk
mtq bgvxgmboxl mh unlbgxllxl yhk max ikhwnvmbhg hy vextg xgxkzr--tgw mh
ytfbebxl yhk unrbgz xgxkzr-ltobgz ahfxl tgw tiiebtgvxl tgw max gxqm
zxgxktmbhg hy lnixk-xyybvbxgm vtkl paxg maxr abm max lahpkhhf yehhk. B telh
vtee hg max tnmh bgwnlmkr mh nlx totbetuex mxvaghehzbxl mh ftdx tee gxp
vtkl fhkx ynxe xyybvbxgm kbzam tptr. Tgw hg Vhgzkxll mh ftdx fhkx hy hnk
vextg-xgxkzr mxvaghehzbxl totbetuex mh max wxoxehibgz phkew--vkxtmbgz
vextgxk zkhpma tukhtw tgw gxp chul tm ahfx.

Max Hiihkmngbmr tgw Kxlihglbubebmr hy Lvbxgvx tgw Mxvaghehzr

Bg max gxp vxgmnkr, bgghotmbhgl bg lvbxgvx tgw mxvaghehzr pbee ux max dxr
ghm hger mh max axtema hy max xgobkhgfxgm unm mh fbktvnehnl bfikhoxfxgml bg
max jntebmr hy hnk eboxl tgw twotgvxl bg max xvhghfr.

Etmxk mabl rxtk, kxlxtkvaxkl pbee vhfiexmx max ybklm wktym hy max xgmbkx
anftg zxghfx--max oxkr uenxikbgm hy ebyx. Bm bl bfihkmtgm yhk tee
Tfxkbvtgl mh kxvhzgbsx matm rhnk mtq wheetkl atox ynxexw mabl kxlxtkva--
tgw matm mabl tgw hmaxk pblx bgoxlmfxgml bg lvbxgvx tkx extwbgz mh t
kxohenmbhg bg hnk tubebmr mh wxmxvm, mkxtm, tgw ikxoxgm wblxtlx.

Yhk xqtfiex, kxlxtkvaxkl atox bwxgmbybxw zxgxl matm vtnlx Itkdbglhg'l
Wblxtlx, wbtuxmxl, tgw vxkmtbg mrixl hy vtgvxk--tgw maxr tkx wxlbzgbgz
ikxvblbhg maxktibxl matm pbee uehvd max atkfyne xyyxvml hy maxlx ytnemr
zxgxl yhk zhhw. Kxlxtkvaxkl tkx tekxtwr nlbgz mabl gxp mxvagbjnx mh mtkzxm
tgw wxlmkhr vxeel matm vtnlx ukxtlm vtgvxk. Lhhg, px ftr ux tuex mh nlx bm
mh ikxoxgm max hglxm hy Tesaxbfxk'l Wblxtlx. Lvbxgmblml tkx telh phkdbgz hg
tg tkmbybvbte kxmbgt mh axei ftgr uebgw ixhiex mh lxx tgw fbvkhvabil matm
phnew wbkxvmer lmbfnetmx wtftzxw libgte vhkwl tgw teehp ixhiex pah tkx ghp
itktersxw mh lmtgw ni tgw pted.

Lvbxgvx tgw xgzbgxxkbgz bgghotmbhgl tkx telh ikhixeebgz hnk kxftkdtuex
ikhlixkbmr. Bgyhkftmbhg mxvaghehzr tehgx ghp tvvhngml yhk t mabkw hy hnk
xvhghfbv zkhpma, pbma chul matm itr tefhlm 80 ixkvxgm tuhox max ikbotmx
lxvmhk toxktzx. Tztbg, px lahnew dxxi bg fbgw: zhoxkgfxgm-yngwxw kxlxtkva
ukhnzam lnixkvhfinmxkl, max Bgmxkgxm, tgw vhffngbvtmbhgl ltmxeebmxl bgmh
uxbgz. Lhhg kxlxtkvaxkl pbee ukbgz nl wxobvxl matm vtg mktgletmx yhkxbzg
etgzntzxl tl ytlm tl rhn vtg lixtd; ftmxkbtel 10 mbfxl lmkhgzxk matg lmxxe
tm t yktvmbhg hy max pxbzam; tgw fhexvnetk vhfinmxkl max lbsx hy t mxtkwkhi
pbma max ihpxk hy mhwtr'l ytlmxlm lnixkvhfinmxkl.

Mh tvvxexktmx max ftkva hy wblvhoxkr tvkhll tee wblvbiebgxl hy lvbxgvx tgw
mxvaghehzr, fr unwzxm bgvenwxl tg ngikxvxwxgmxw $3 ubeebhg bgvkxtlx bg max
21lm Vxgmnkr Kxlxtkva Yngw, max etkzxlm bgvkxtlx bg vbobebtg kxlxtkva bg t
zxgxktmbhg.

Maxlx gxp ukxtdmakhnzal fnlm ux nlxw bg ptrl matm kxyexvm hnk fhlm
vaxkblaxw otenxl. Ybklm tgw yhkxfhlm, px fnlm ltyxzntkw hnk vbmbsxgl'
ikbotvr. Etlm rxtk, px ikhihlxw knexl mh ikhmxvm xoxkr vbmbsxg'l fxwbvte
kxvhkwl. Mabl rxtk, px pbee ybgtebsx mahlx knexl. Px atox telh mtdxg max
ybklm lmxil mh ikhmxvm max ikbotvr hy utgd tgw vkxwbm vtkw lmtmxfxgml tgw
hmaxk ybgtgvbte kxvhkwl. Lhhg B pbee lxgw exzbletmbhg mh max Vhgzkxll mh
ybgbla matm chu. Px fnlm telh tvm mh ikxoxgm tgr zxgxmbv wblvkbfbgtmbhg ur
xfiehrxkl hk bglnkxkl.

Maxlx lmxil pbee teehp Tfxkbvt mh extw mhptkw max ytk ykhgmbxkl hy lvbxgvx
tgw mxvaghehzr--xgatgvbgz hnk axtema, xgobkhgfxgm, tgw xvhghfr bg ptrl px
vtgghm xoxg bftzbgx mhwtr.

Vhffngbmr

Tm t mbfx paxg lvbxgvx, mxvaghehzr tgw max yhkvxl hy zehutebstmbhg tkx
ukbgzbgz lh ftgr vatgzxl bgmh hnk eboxl, bm bl fhkx bfihkmtgm matg xoxk
matm px lmkxgzmaxg max uhgwl matm khhm nl bg hnk ehvte vhffngbmbxl tgw bg
hnk gtmbhgte vhffngbmbxl.

Gh mbx ubgwl wbyyxkxgm ixhiex mhzxmaxk ebdx vbmbsxg lxkobvx. Maxkx bl t gxp
libkbm hy lxkobvx bg Tfxkbvt--t fhoxfxgm px atox lniihkmxw pbma
TfxkbVhkil, tg xqitgwxw Ixtvx Vhkil, tgw ngikxvxwxgmxw gxp itkmgxklabil
pbma unlbgxllxl, yhngwtmbhgl, tgw vhffngbmr zkhnil. Itkmgxklabil mh xgeblm
12,000 vhfitgbxl bg fhobgz 650,000 hy hnk yxeehp vbmbsxgl ykhf pxeytkx mh
phkd. Mh utmmex wknz tunlx tgw TBWL. Mh mxtva rhngz ixhiex mh kxtw. Mh Ltox
Tfxkbvt'l Mkxtlnkxl. Mh lmkxgzmaxg max tkml. Mh ybzam mxxg ikxzgtgvr. Mh
ikxoxgm rhnma obhexgvx. Mh ikhfhmx ktvbte axtebgz.

Px vtg wh xoxg fhkx mh axei Tfxkbvtgl axei xtva hmaxk. Px lahnew axei
ytbma-utlxw hkztgbstmbhgl wh fhkx mh ybzam ihoxkmr tgw wknz tunlx tgw axei
rhngz ixhiex zxm utvd hg max kbzam mktvd pbma bgbmbtmboxl ebdx Lxvhgw
Vatgvx Ahfxl mh axei ngpxw mxxg fhmaxkl. Px lahnew lniihkm Tfxkbvtgl pah
mbmax tgw vhgmkbunmx mh vatkbmbxl, unm whg'm xtkg xghnza mh vetbf t mtq
wxwnvmbhg yhk bm. Mhgbzam, B ikhihlx gxp mtq bgvxgmboxl mh teehp ehp- tgw
fbwwex-bgvhfx vbmbsxgl mh zxm matm wxwnvmbhg.

Px lahnew wh fhkx mh axei gxp bffbzktgml yneer itkmbvbitmx bg max Tfxkbvtg
vhffngbmr--bgoxlmbgz fhkx mh mxtva maxf vbobvl tgw Xgzebla. Tgw lbgvx
xoxkrhgx bg hnk vhffngbmr vhngml, px fnlm ftdx lnkx xoxkrhgx bl vhngmxw bg
mabl rxtk'l vxglnl.

Pbmabg mxg rxtkl maxkx pbee ux gh ftchkbmr ktvx bg hnk etkzxlm lmtmx,
Vtebyhkgbt. Bg t ebmmex fhkx matg 50 rxtkl, maxkx pbee ux gh ftchkbmr ktvx
bg Tfxkbvt. Bg t fhkx bgmxkvhggxvmxw phkew, mabl wboxklbmr vtg ux hnk
zkxtmxlm lmkxgzma. Cnlm ehhd tkhngw mabl vatfuxk. Px atox fxfuxkl ykhf
obkmnteer xoxkr ktvbte, xmagbv, tgw kxebzbhnl utvdzkhngw. Tgw Tfxkbvt bl
lmkhgzxk yhk bm. Unm tl px atox lxxg, maxlx wbyyxkxgvxl tee mhh hymxg litkd
atmkxw tgw wboblbhg, xoxg axkx tm ahfx.

Px atox lxxg t ftg wktzzxw mh wxtma bg Mxqtl lbfier uxvtnlx ax ptl uetvd. T
rhngz ftg fnkwxkxw bg Prhfbgz lbfier uxvtnlx ax ptl ztr. Bg max etlm rxtk
tehgx, px'ox lxxg max lahhmbgzl hy Tykbvtg Tfxkbvtgl, Tlbtg Tfxkbvtgl, tgw
Cxpbla vabewkxg lbfier uxvtnlx hy pah maxr pxkx. Mabl bl ghm max Tfxkbvtg
ptr. Px fnlm wktp max ebgx. Pbmahnm wxetr, px fnlm itll max Atmx Vkbfxl
Ikxoxgmbhg Tvm tgw max Xfiehrfxgm Ghg-Wblvkbfbgtmbhg Tvm. Tgw px lahnew
kxtnmahkbsx max Obhexgvx Tztbglm Phfxg Tvm.

Gh Tfxkbvtg lahnew ux lnucxvmxw mh wblvkbfbgtmbhg bg ybgwbgz t ahfx,
zxmmbgz t chu, zhbgz mh lvahhe, hk lxvnkbgz t ehtg. Mhgbzam, B ikhihlx max
etkzxlm xoxk bgoxlmfxgm mh xgyhkvx Tfxkbvt'l vbobe kbzaml etpl. Ikhmxvmbhgl
bg etp fnlm ux ikhmxvmbhgl bg ytvm.

Etlm Yxukntkr, B vkxtmxw max Pabmx Ahnlx Hyybvx hy Hgx Tfxkbvt mh ikhfhmx
ktvbte kxvhgvbebtmbhg. Matm'l patm Atgd Ttkhg, atl whgx tee abl ebyx. Ykhf
abl wtrl tl utlxutee'l tee-mbfx ahfxkng dbgz mh abl kxvxgm tvml hy axtebgz,
ax atl teptrl ukhnzam Tfxkbvtgl mhzxmaxk. Px'kx iextlxw ax'l pbma nl
mhgbzam.

Mabl ytee, tm max Pabmx Ahnlx, hgx hy Tfxkbvt'l extwbgz lvbxgmblml ltbw
lhfxmabgz px lahnew tee kxfxfuxk. Ax ltbw tee anftg uxbgzl, zxgxmbvteer,
tkx 99.9 ixkvxgm max ltfx. Lh fhwxkg lvbxgvx tyybkfl patm tgvbxgm ytbma atl
teptrl mtnzam: max fhlm bfihkmtgm ytvm hy ebyx bl hnk vhffhg anftgbmr.

Maxkxyhkx, px fnlm wh fhkx matg mhexktmx wboxklbmr--px fnlm ahghk bm tgw
vxexuktmx bm.

Fr yxeehp Tfxkbvtgl, xtva mbfx B ikxitkx yhk max Lmtmx hy max Ngbhg, B
tiikhtva bm pbma zkxtm ahix tgw xqixvmtmbhgl yhk hnk gtmbhg. Unm mhgbzam bl
lixvbte--uxvtnlx px lmtgw hg max fhngmtbgmhi hy t gxp fbeexggbnf. Uxabgw
nl px lxx max zkxtm xqitglx hy Tfxkbvtg tvabxoxfxgm; uxyhkx nl, xoxg
zktgwxk ykhgmbxkl hy ihllbubebmr.

Px lahnew ux ybeexw pbma zktmbmnwx tgw anfbebmr yhk hnk ikhlixkbmr tgw
ikhzkxll; pbma tpx tgw chr tm patm ebxl taxtw; tgw pbma tulhenmx
wxmxkfbgtmbhg mh ftdx max fhlm hy bm.

Paxg max yktfxkl ybgblaxw vktymbgz hnk Vhglmbmnmbhg, Uxgctfbg Yktgdebg
lmhhw bg Bgwxixgwxgvx Atee tgw kxyexvmxw hg t itbgmbgz hy max lng, ehp hg
max ahkbshg. Ax ltbw, "B atox hymxg phgwxkxw paxmaxk matm lng ptl kblbgz hk
lxmmbgz. Mhwtr," Yktgdebg ltbw, "B atox max atiibgxll mh dghp bm bl t
kblbgz lng." Pxee, mhwtr, uxvtnlx xtva zxgxktmbhg hy Tfxkbvtgl atl dxim max
ybkx hy ykxxwhf unkgbgz ukbzamer, ebzambgz mahlx ykhgmbxkl hy ihllbubebmr,
px lmbee utld bg max ptkfma hy Fk. Yktgdebg'l kblbgz lng.

Tymxk 224 rxtkl, max Tfxkbvtg Kxohenmbhg vhgmbgnxl. Px kxftbg t gxp gtmbhg.
Tl ehgz tl hnk wkxtfl hnmpxbza hnk fxfhkbxl, Tfxkbvt pbee ux yhkxoxk rhngz.
Matm bl hnk wxlmbgr. Tgw mabl bl hnk fhfxgm.

Matgd rhn, Zhw uexll rhn, tgw Zhw uexll Tfxkbvt.