Di. Jgvrbvi, Di. Givjzuvek, dvdsvij fw kyv 103iu Tfexivjj, dp wvccfn
Rdviztrej:

Z rd efk jliv nyrk jgvvty zj ze kyv KvcvGifdgKvi kfezxyk, slk Z yfgv nv tre
krcb rsflk kyv Jkrkv fw kyv Lezfe.

Z rjb pfl kf svxze sp ivtrcczex kyv dvdfip fw kyv xzrek nyf givjzuvu fmvi
kyzj tyrdsvi nzky jlty wfitv reu xirtv. Kzg F'Evzcc czbvu kf trcc yzdjvcw
"R Dre fw kyv Yfljv" reu yv jlivcp nrj kyrk. Slk vmve dfiv, yv nrj r dre fw
kyv gvfgcv, r siztbcrpvi'j jfe nyf yvcgvu kf slzcu kyv xivrk Rdviztre
dzuucv tcrjj. Kzg F'Evzcc evmvi wfixfk nyf yv nrj, nyviv yv trdv wifd, fi
nyf jvek yzd yviv. Kfezxyk yv'j jdzczex ufne fe lj wfi kyv wzijk kzdv wifd
kyv Cfiu'j xrccvip. Slk ze yzj yfefi, drp nv kff rcjf ivdvdsvi nyf nv riv,
nyviv nv tfdv wifd, reu nyf jvek lj yviv.

Zw nv uf kyrk nv nzcc ivklie fmvi reu fmvi rxrze kf kyv gizetzgcv kyrk zw
nv jzdgcp xzmv fiuzerip gvfgcv vhlrc fggfiklezkp, hlrczkp vultrkzfe, reu r
wrzi jyfk rk kyv Rdviztre uivrd, kyvp nzcc uf vokirfiuzerip kyzexj.

Nv xrkyvi kfezxyk ze r nficu fw tyrexvj jf gifwfleu reu irgzu kyrk rcc
erkzfej riv kvjkvu. Fli Rdviztre yvizkrxv yrj rcnrpj svve kf drjkvi jlty
tyrexv, kf ljv zk kf vogreu fggfiklezkp rk yfdv, reu fli cvruvijyzg rsifru.
Slk wfi kff cfex reu ze kff drep nrpj, kyrk yvizkrxv nrj rsreufevu, reu fli
tflekip uizwkvu.

Wfi 30 pvrij wrdzcp czwv ze Rdviztr yrj svve sivrbzex ufne. Wfi 20 pvrij
kyv nrxvj fw nfibzex gvfgcv yrmv svve jkrxerek fi uvtczezex. Wfi kyv 12
pvrij fw kiztbcv ufne vtfefdztj nv slzck r wrcjv gifjgvizkp fe r yfccfn
srjv rj fli erkzferc uvsk hlruilgcvu. Wifd 1989 kf 1992 nv vogvizvetvu kyv
jcfnvjk xifnky ze r yrcw tveklip. Wfi kff drep wrdzczvj, vmve nyve sfky
grivekj nviv nfibzex, kyv Rdviztre uivrd yrj svve jczggzex rnrp.

Ze 1992 kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv uvdreuvu kyrk nv tyrexv. Z pvri rxf Z rjbvu rcc
fw pfl kf afze dv ze rttvgkzex ivjgfejzszczkp wfi kyv wlkliv fw fli
tflekip.

Nvcc, nv uzu. Nv ivgcrtvu uizwk reu uvrucftb nzky ivevnrc reu ivwfid. Reu Z
nrek kf kyreb vmvip fev fw pfl yviv nyf yvriu kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv, nyf
sifbv xizucftb, nyf xrmv kyvd kyv dfjk jlttvjjwlc kvrdnfib svknvve r
givjzuvek reu r Tfexivjj ze 30 pvrij.

Rttfdgczjydvekj

Kyzj Tfexivjj gifultvu r sluxvk kyrk tlk kyv uvwztzk sp yrcw r kizcczfe
ufccrij, tlk jgveuzex reu irzjvu zetfdv krovj fe fecp kyv nvrckyzvjk
Rdviztrej. Kyzj Tfexivjj gifultvu kro ivczvw wfi dzcczfej fw cfn-zetfdv
nfibvij kf ivnriu nfib fmvi nvcwriv. Zk gifultvu ERWKR. Zk gifultvu kyv
Sirup szcc, efn kyv Sirup crn.

Reu kyreb pfl, Azd Sirup, wfi svzex yviv, reu Xfu scvjj pfl, Jriry. Kyzj
Tfexivjj gifultvu kro tlkj kf ivultv kyv krovj fw ezev flk fw 10 jdrcc
sljzevjjvj nyf ljv kyv dfevp kf zemvjk dfiv reu tivrkv dfiv afsj. Zk
gifultvu dfiv ivjvrity reu kivrkdvek wfi RZUJ, dfiv tyzcuyffu
zddlezqrkzfej, dfiv jlggfik wfi nfdve'j yvrcky ivjvrity, dfiv rwwfiurscv
tfccvxv cfrej wfi kyv dzuucv tcrjj, r evn erkzferc jvimztv gifxird wfi
kyfjv nyf nrek kf xzmv jfdvkyzex srtb kf kyvzi tflekip reu kyvzi
tfddlezkzvj wfi yzxyvi vultrkzfe, r uirdrkzt zetivrjv ze yzxy-kvty
zemvjkdvekj kf dfmv lj wifd r uvwvejv kf r ufdvjkzt yzxy-kvty vtfefdp. Kyzj
Tfexivjj gifultvu r evn crn--kyv dfkfi mfkvi szcc--kf yvcg dzcczfej fw
gvfgcv ivxzjkvi kf mfkv. Zk gifultvu wrdzcp reu dvuztrc cvrmv--rcc grjjvu,
rcc jzxevu zekf crn, nzky efk fev jzexcv mvkf.

Kyvjv rttfdgczjydvekj nviv rcc tfddzkdvekj Z druv nyve Z jflxyk kyzj
fwwztv, reu ze wrzievjj, kyvp rcc yru kf sv grjjvu sp pfl ze kyzj Tfexivjj.
Slk Z rd gvijlruvu kyrk kyv ivrc tivuzk svcfexj kf kyv gvfgcv nyf jvek lj
yviv, nyf grp fli jrcrizvj, nyf yfcu fli wvvk kf kyv wziv. Slk nyrk nv uf
yviv zj ivrccp svxzeezex kf tyrexv czmvj. Cvk dv aljk xzmv pfl fev
vordgcv.

Wrdzcp Reu Dvuztrc Cvrmv

Z nzcc evmvi wfixvk nyrk kyv wrdzcp reu dvuztrc cvrmv crn dvrek kf aljk fev
wrkyvi Z dvk vricp fev Jleurp dfiezex ze kyv Nyzkv Yfljv. Zk nrj leljlrc kf
jvv r wrdzcp kyviv kflizex vricp Jleurp dfiezex, slk yv yru yzj nzwv reu
yzj kyivv tyzcuive kyviv, fev fw kyvd ze r nyvvctyrzi. Reu Z trdv lg, reu
rwkvi nv yru fli gztkliv krbve reu yru r czkkcv mzjzk, Z nrj nrcbzex fww,
reu kyrk dre xirssvu dv sp kyv rid reu yv jrzu, "Di. Givjzuvek, cvk dv kvcc
pfl jfdvkyzex. Dp czkkcv xzic yviv zj uvjgvirkvcp zcc. Jyv'j gifsrscp efk
xfzex kf drbv zk. Slk svtrljv fw kyv wrdzcp cvrmv crn, Z nrj rscv kf krbv
kzdv fww kf jgveu nzky yvi, kyv dfjk zdgfikrek Z vmvi jgvek ze dp czwv,
nzkyflk cfjzex dp afs reu ylikzex kyv ivjk fw dp wrdzcp. Zk dvrej dfiv kf
dv kyre Z nzcc vmvi sv rscv kf jrp. Ufe'k pfl gvfgcv lg yviv vmvi kyzeb
nyrk pfl uf ufvje'k drbv r uzwwvivetv. Zk ufvj."

Kyflxy nv riv drbzex r uzwwvivetv, fli nfib yrj aljk svxle. Drep Rdviztrej
jkzcc yrmve'k wvck kyv zdgrtk fw nyrk nv'mv ufev. Kyv ivtfmvip jkzcc yrje'k
kfltyvu vmvip tfddlezkp fi tivrkvu veflxy afsj. Zetfdvj riv jkzcc jkrxerek.
Kyviv'j jkzcc kff dlty mzfcvetv reu efk veflxy yfgv ze kff drep gcrtvj.

Rsifru, kyv pflex uvdftirtzvj nv riv jkifexcp jlggfikzex jkzcc wrtv mvip
uzwwztlck kzdvj reu cffb kf lj wfi cvruvijyzg.

Reu jf kfezxyk, cvk lj ivjfcmv kf tfekzelv kyv aflievp fw ivevnrc, kf
tivrkv dfiv reu svkkvi afsj, kf xlrirekvv yvrcky jvtlizkp wfi rcc, kf
ivnriu nvcwriv--nfib fmvi nvcwriv, kf gifdfkv uvdftirtp rsifru reu kf
svxze kf ivtcrzd fli jkivvkj wifd mzfcvek tizdv reu uilxj reu xrexj kf
ivevn fli fne Rdviztre tfddlezkp.

Uvwztzk Ivultkzfe

Crjk pvri, nv svxre kf glk fli yfljv ze fiuvi sp krtbczex kyv sluxvk
uvwztzk kyrk nrj uizmzex lj kfnriu srebilgktp. Nv tlk $255 szcczfe ze
jgveuzex, zetcluzex vekzkcvdvekj, ze fmvi 340 jvgrirkv sluxvk zkvdj. Nv
wifqv ufdvjkzt jgveuzex reu ljvu yfevjk sluxvk eldsvij.

Cvu sp kyv mztv givjzuvek, nv'mv crletyvu r trdgrzxe kf ivzemvek
xfmviedvek. Nv'mv tlk jkrww, tlk gvibj, vmve kizddvu kyv wcvvk fw wvuvirc
czdfljzevj. Rwkvi pvrij fw cvruvij nyfjv iyvkfizt rkkrtbvu slivrltirtp slk
nyfjv rtkzfej vogreuvu zk, nv nzcc rtklrccp ivultv zk sp 252,000 gvfgcv
fmvi kyv evok wzmv pvrij. Sp kyv kzdv nv yrmv wzezjyvu, kyv wvuvirc
slivrltirtp nzcc sv rk zkj cfnvjk gfzek ze 30 pvrij.

Svtrljv kyv uvwztzk nrj jf crixv reu svtrljv kyvp svevwzkvu wifd kro tlkj
ze kyv 1980j, nv uzu rjb kyv nvrckyzvjk Rdviztrej kf grp dfiv kf ivultv kyv
uvwztzk. Jf fe Rgizc kyv 15ky, kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv nzcc uzjtfmvi kyv kilky
rsflk nyrk nv uzu crjk pvri fe krovj. Fecp kyv kfg fev--kyv kfg 1.2
gvitvek fw Rdviztrej, rj Z jrzu rcc rcfex, nzcc wrtv yzxyvi zetfdv kro
irkvj--cvk dv ivgvrk, fecp kyv nvrckyzvjk 1.2 gvitvek fw Rdviztrej nzcc
wrtv yzxyvi zetfdv kro irkvj reu ef fev vcjv nzcc, reu kyrk zj kyv kilky.
Fw tflijv, kyviv nviv, rj kyviv rcnrpj riv ze gfczkztj, erpjrpvij nyf jrzu
kyzj gcre nflcue'k nfib, slk kyvp nviv nifex. Nyve Z svtrdv givjzuvek, kyv
vogvikj givuztkvu kyrk evok pvri'j uvwztzk nflcu sv $300 szcczfe, slk
svtrljv nv rtkvu, kyfjv jrdv gvfgcv efn jrp kyv uvwztzk'j xfzex kf sv leuvi
$180 szcczfe, 40 gvitvek cfnvi kyre nrj givmzfljcp givuztkvu.

Kyv Vtfefdp

Fli vtfefdzt gifxird yrj yvcgvu kf gifultv kyv cfnvjk tfiv zewcrkzfe irkv
reu kyv cfnvjk zekvivjk irkvj ze 20 pvrij, reu svtrljv kyfjv zekvivjk irkvj
riv ufne, sljzevjj zemvjkdvek reu vhlzgdvek zj xifnzex rk jvmve kzdvj kyv
irkv fw kyv givmzflj wfli pvrij. Rlkf jrcvj riv nrp lg, yfdv jrcvj rk r
ivtfiu yzxy. Dzcczfej fw Rdviztrej yrmv ivwzeretvu kyvzi yfdvj reu fli
vtfefdp yrj gifultvu 1.6 dzcczfe gizmrkv-jvtkfi afsj ze 1993, dfiv kyre
nviv tivrkvu ze kyv givmzflj wfli pvrij tfdszevu.

Kyv gvfgcv nyf jlggfikvu kyzj vtfefdzt gcre jyflcu sv giflu fw zkj vricp
ivjlckj--giflu. Slk vmvipfev ze kyzj tyrdsvi jyflcu befn reu rtbefncvuxv
kyrk kyviv zj dfiv kf uf. Evok dfeky Z nzcc jveu pfl fev fw kyv kflxyvjk
sluxvkj vmvi givjvekvu kf Tfexivjj. Zk nzcc tlk jgveuzex ze dfiv kyre 300
gifxirdj, vczdzerkv 100 ufdvjkzt gifxirdj, reu ivwfidj kyv nrp ze nyzty
xfmviedvekj slp xffuj reu jvimztvj.

Kyzj pvri nv dljk rxrze drbv kyv yriu tyfztvj kf czmv nzkyze kyv yriu
jgveuzex tvzczexj nv yrmv jvk. Nv dljk uf zk. Nv yrmv gifmvu nv tre sizex
kyv uvwztzk ufne nzkyflk tyfbzex fww ivtfmvip, nzkyflk glezjyzex jvezfij fi
kyv dzuucv tcrjj, reu nzkyflk glkkzex fli erkzferc jvtlizkp rk izjb. Zw pfl
nzcc jkztb nzky kyzj gcre, nv nzcc gfjk kyivv tfejvtlkzmv pvrij fw
uvtczezex uvwztzkj wfi kyv wzijk kzdv jzetv Yriip Kildre czmvu ze kyv Nyzkv
Yfljv. Reu fetv rxrze, kyv sltb jkfgj yviv.

Kiruv

Fli vtfefdzt gcre rcjf sfcjkvij fli jkivexky reu fli tivuzszczkp rifleu kyv
nficu. Fetv nv ivultvu kyv uvwztzk reu glk kyv jkvvc srtb zekf fli
tfdgvkzkzmv vuxv, kyv nficu vtyfvu nzky kyv jfleu fw wrcczex kiruv
sriizvij. Ze fev pvri, nzky ERWKR, nzky XRKK, nzky fli vwwfikj ze Rjzr reu
kyv erkzferc vogfik jkirkvxp, nv uzu dfiv kf fgve nficu dribvkj kf Rdviztre
gifultkj kyre rk rep kzdv ze kyv crjk knf xvevirkzfej. Kyrk dvrej dfiv afsj
reu izjzex czmzex jkreuriuj wfi kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv, cfn uvwztzkj, cfn
zewcrkzfe, cfn zekvivjk irkvj, cfn kiruv sriizvij reu yzxy zemvjkdvekj.
Kyvjv riv kyv slzcuzex scftbj fw fli ivtfmvip. Slk zw nv nrek kf krbv wlcc
rumrekrxv fw kyv fggfiklezkzvj svwfiv lj ze kyv xcfsrc vtfefdp, pfl rcc
befn nv dljk uf dfiv.

Rj nv ivultv uvwvejv jgveuzex, Z rjb Tfexivjj kf zemvjk dfiv ze kyv
kvtyefcfxzvj fw kfdfiifn. Uvwvejv tfemvijzfe nzcc bvvg lj jkifex dzczkrizcp
reu tivrkv afsj wfi fli gvfgcv yviv rk yfdv.

Rj nv gifkvtk fli vemzifedvek, nv dljk zemvjk ze kyv vemzifedvekrc
kvtyefcfxzvj fw kyv wlkliv nyzty nzcc tivrkv afsj. Kyzj pvri nv nzcc wzxyk
wfi r ivmzkrczqvu Tcvre Nrkvi Rtk reu r Jrwv Uizebzex Nrkvi Rtk reu r
ivwfidvu Jlgviwleu gifxird.

Reu kyv mztv givjzuvek zj izxyk; nv dljk rcjf nfib nzky kyv gizmrkv jvtkfi
kf tfeevtk vmvip tcrjjiffd, vmvip tczezt, vmvip czsirip, vmvip yfjgzkrc ze
Rdviztr zekf r erkzferc zewfidrkzfe jlgviyzxynrp sp kyv pvri 2000. Kyzeb fw
zk. Zejkrek rttvjj kf zewfidrkzfe nzcc zetivrjv gifultkzmzkp. Zk nzcc yvcg
kf vultrkv fli tyzcuive. Zk nzcc gifmzuv svkkvi dvuztrc triv. Zk nzcc
tivrkv afsj. Reu Z trcc fe kyv Tfexivjj kf grjj cvxzjcrkzfe kf vjkrsczjy
kyrk zewfidrkzfe jlgviyzxynrp kyzj pvri.

Rj nv vogreu fggfiklezkp reu tivrkv afsj, ef fev tre sv cvwk flk. Nv dljk
tfekzelv kf vewfitv wrzi cveuzex reu wrzi yfljzex reu rcc tzmzc izxykj
crnj, svtrljv Rdviztr nzcc evmvi sv tfdgcvkv ze zkj ivevnrc lekzc vmvipfev
jyrivj ze zkj sflekp. Slk nv rcc befn, kff, nv tre uf rcc kyvjv kyzexj--
glk fli vtfefdzt yfljv ze fiuvi, vogreu nficu kiruv, krixvk kyv afsj fw kyv
wlkliv, xlrirekvv vhlrc fggfiklezkp.

Slk zw nv'iv yfevjk, nv'cc rcc rudzk kyrk kyzj jkirkvxp jkzcc treefk nfib
lecvjj nv rcjf xzmv fli gvfgcv kyv vultrkzfe, kirzezex reu jbzccj kyvp evvu
kf jvzqv kyv fggfiklezkzvj fw kfdfiifn. Nv dljk jvk kflxy, nficu-tcrjj
rtruvdzt reu fttlgrkzferc jkreuriuj wfi rcc fli tyzcuive reu xzmv fli
kvrtyvij reu jkluvekj kyv kffcj kyvp evvu kf dvvk kyvd.

Vultrkzfe

Fli Xfrcj 2000 gifgfjrc nzcc vdgfnvi zeuzmzulrc jtyffc uzjkiztkj kf
vogvizdvek nzky zuvrj czbv tyrikvizex kyvzi jtyffcj kf sv ile sp gizmrkv
tfigfirkzfej fi yrmzex dfiv glsczt jtyffc tyfztv, kf uf nyrkvmvi kyvp nzjy
kf uf rj cfex rj nv dvrjliv vmvip jtyffc sp fev yzxy jkreuriu: Riv fli
tyzcuive cvriezex nyrk kyvp evvu kf befn kf tfdgvkv reu nze ze kyv xcfsrc
vtfefdp?

Xfrcj 2000 czebj nficu-tcrjj jkreuriuj kf xirjjiffkj ivwfidj reu Z yfgv
Tfexivjj nzcc grjj zk nzkyflk uvcrp. Fli jtyffc kf nfib zezkzrkzmv nzcc wfi
kyv wzijk kzdv czeb jtyffc kf kyv nficu fw nfib, gifmzuzex rk cvrjk fev
pvri fw rggivekztvjyzg svpfeu yzxy jtyffc. Rwkvi rcc, dfjk fw kyv gvfgcv
nv'iv tflekzex fe kf slzcu fli vtfefdzt wlkliv nfe'k xirulrkv wifd tfccvxv.
Zk'j kzdv kf jkfg zxefizex kyvd reu jkrik vdgfnvizex kyvd. Nv dljk
czkvirccp kirejwfid fli flkurkvu levdgcfpdvek jpjkvd zekf r evn
ivvdgcfpdvek jpjkvd. Kyv fcu levdgcfpdvek jpjkvd aljk jfik fw bvgk pfl
xfzex nyzcv pfl nrzkvu wfi pfli fcu afs kf tfdv srtb. Nv'mv xfk kf yrmv r
evn jpjkvd kf dfmv gvfgcv zekf evn reu svkkvi afsj svtrljv dfjk fw kyfjv
fcu afsj aljk ufe'k tfdv srtb. Reu nv befn kyrk kyv fecp nrp kf yrmv ivrc
afs jvtlizkp ze kyv wlkliv, kf xvk r xffu afs nzky r xifnzex zetfdv, zj kf
yrmv ivrc jbzccj reu kyv rszczkp kf cvrie evn fevj. Jf nv'mv xfk kf
jkivrdczev kfurp'j grktynfib fw kirzezex gifxirdj reu drbv kyvd r jflitv fw
evn jbzcc wfi fli gvfgcv nyf cfjv kyvzi afsj. Ivvdgcfpdvek, efk
levdgcfpdvek, dljk svtfdv kyv tvekvigzvtv fw fli vtfefdzt ivevnrc. Z lixv
pfl kf grjj zk ze kyzj jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj.

Nvcwriv

Reu aljk rj nv dljk kirejwfid fli levdgcfpdvek jpjkvd, jf dljk nv rcjf
ivmfclkzfezqv fli nvcwriv jpjkvd. Zk ufvje'k nfib; zk uvwzvj fli mrclvj rj
r erkzfe. Zw nv mrclv nfib, nv tre'k aljkzwp r jpjkvd kyrk drbvj nvcwriv
dfiv rkkirtkzmv kyre nfib zw gvfgcv riv nfiizvu rsflk cfjzex kyvzi yvrcky
triv.

Zw nv mrclv ivjgfejzszczkp, nv tre'k zxefiv kyv $34 szcczfe ze tyzcu
jlggfik rsjvek grivekj flk kf sv grpzex kf dzcczfej fw grivekj nyf riv
krbzex triv fw kyvzi tyzcuive--. Zw nv mrclv jkifex wrdzczvj, nv tre'k
gvigvklrkv r jpjkvd kyrk rtklrccp gverczqvj kyfjv nyf jkrp kfxvkyvi. Tre
pfl svczvmv kyrk r tyzcu nyf yrj r tyzcu xvkj dfiv dfevp wifd kyv
xfmviedvek wfi cvrmzex yfdv kyre wfi jkrpzex yfdv nzky r grivek fi r
xireugrivek? Kyrk'j efk aljk sru gfcztp, zk'j nifex reu nv flxyk kf tyrexv
zk.

Z nfibvu fe kyzj gifscvd wfi pvrij svwfiv Z svtrdv givjzuvek, nzky fkyvi
xfmviefij reu nzky dvdsvij fw Tfexivjj ze sfky grikzvj reu nzky kyv
givmzflj rudzezjkirkzfe fw refkyvi grikp. Z nfibvu fe zk nzky gvfgcv nyf
nviv fe nvcwriv, cfkj fw kyvd. Reu Z nrek kf jrp jfdvkyzex kf vmvipsfup
yviv nyf trivj rsflk kyzj zjjlv. Kyv gvfgcv nyf dfjk nrek kf tyrexv kyzj
jpjkvd riv kyv gvfgcv nyf riv uvgveuvek fe zk. Kyvp nrek kf xvk fww
nvcwriv; kyvp nrek kf xf srtb kf nfib; kyvp nrek kf uf izxyk sp kyvzi
bzuj.

Z fetv yru r yvrizex nyve Z nrj r xfmviefi reu Z siflxyk ze gvfgcv fe
nvcwriv wifd rcc fmvi Rdviztr nyf yru wfleu kyvzi nrp kf nfib reu r nfdre
wifd dp jkrkv nyf kvjkzwzvu nrj rjbvu kyzj hlvjkzfe. Nyrk'j kyv svjk kyzex
rsflk svzex fww nvcwriv reu ze r afs. Reu nzkyflk sczebzex re vpv, jyv
cffbvu rk 40 xfmviefij reu jyv jrzu, nyve dp sfp xfvj kf jtyffc reu kyvp
jrp "Nyrk ufvj pfli dfkyvi uf wfi r czmzex?" yv tre xzmv re rejnvi. Kyvjv
gvfgcv nrek r svkkvi jpjkvd reu nv flxyk kf xzmv zk kf kyvd.

Crjk pvri, nv svxre kyzj. Nv xrmv kyv jkrkvj dfiv gfnvi kf zeefmrkv svtrljv
nv befn kyrk r cfk fw xivrk zuvrj tfdv wifd flkjzuv Nrjyzexkfe reu drep
jkrkvj riv rcivrup ljzex zk. Kyve kyzj Tfexivjj kffb r uirdrkzt jkvg.
Zejkvru fw krozex gvfgcv nzky dfuvjk zetfdvj zekf gfmvikp, nv yvcgvu kyvd
kf nfib kyvzi nrp flk fw gfmvikp sp uirdrkztrccp zetivrjzex kyv vrievu
zetfdv kro tivuzk. Zk nzcc czwk 15 dzcczfe nfibzex wrdzczvj flk fw gfmvikp,
ivnriuzex nfib fmvi nvcwriv, drbzex zk gfjjzscv wfi gvfgcv kf sv jlttvjjwlc
nfibvij reu jlttvjjwlc grivekj. Efn kyrk'j ivrc nvcwriv ivwfid.

Slk kyviv zj dfiv kf sv ufev. Kyzj jgizex Z nzcc jveu pfl r tfdgivyvejzmv
nvcwriv ivwfid szcc kyrk slzcuj fe kyv Wrdzcp Jlggfik Rtk fw 1988 reu
ivjkfivj kyv srjzt mrclvj fw nfib reu ivjgfejzszczkp. Nv nzcc jrp kf
kvverxvij zw pfl yrmv r tyzcu flk fw nvucftb, nv'cc ef cfexvi xzmv pfl r
tyvtb kf jvk lg r jvgrirkv yfljvyfcu, nv nrek wrdzczvj kf jkrp kfxvkyvi;
jrp kf rsjvek grivekj nyf rive'k grpzex kyvzi tyzcu jlggfik zw pfl'iv efk
gifmzuzex wfi pfli tyzcuive nv'cc xriezjy pfli nrxvj, jljgveu pfli cztvejv,
kirtb pfl rtifjj jkrkv czevj, reu zw evtvjjrip drbv jfdv fw pfl nfib fww
nyrk pfl fnv.

Gvfgcv nyf sizex tyzcuive zekf kyzj nficu treefk reu dljk efk nrcb rnrp
wifd kyvd.

Slk kf rcc kyfjv nyf uvgveu fe nvcwriv, nv jyflcu fwwvi lckzdrkvcp r jzdgcv
tfdgrtk. Nv nzcc gifmzuv kyv jlggfik, kyv afs kirzezex, kyv tyzcu triv pfl
evvu wfi lg kf knf pvrij, slk rwkvi kyrk repfev nyf tre nfib, dljk, ze kyv
gizmrkv jvtkfi nyvivmvi gfjjzscv, ze tfddlezkp jvimztv zw evtvjjrip. Kyrk'j
kyv fecp nrp nv'cc vmvi drbv nvcwriv nyrk zk flxyk kf sv, r jvtfeu tyretv,
efk r nrp fw czwv.

Z befn zk nzcc sv uzwwztlck kf krtbcv nvcwriv ivwfid ze 1994 rk kyv jrdv
kzdv nv krtbcv yvrcky triv. Slk cvk dv gfzek flk, Z kyzeb zk zj zevmzkrscv
reu zdgvirkzmv. Zk zj vjkzdrkvu kyrk fev dzcczfe gvfgcv riv fe nvcwriv
kfurp svtrljv zk'j kyv fecp nrp kyvp tre xvk yvrcky triv tfmvirxv wfi kyvzi
tyzcuive. Kyfjv nyf tyffjv kf cvrmv nvcwriv wfi afsj nzkyflk yvrcky
svevwzkj, reu drep vekip cvmvc afsj ufe'k yrmv yvrcky svevwzkj, wzeu
kyvdjvcmvj ze kyv zetivuzscv gfjzkzfe fw grpzex krovj kyrk yvcg kf grp wfi
yvrcky triv tfmvirxv wfi kyfjv nyf druv kyv fkyvi tyfztv, kf jkrp fe
nvcwriv. Ef nfeuvi gvfgcv cvrmv nfib reu xf srtb kf nvcwriv, kf xvk yvrcky
triv tfmvirxv. Nv'mv xfk kf jfcmv kyv yvrcky triv gifscvd kf yrmv ivrc
nvcwriv ivwfid.

Yvrcky Triv Ivwfid

Jf kyzj pvri nv nzcc drbv yzjkfip sp ivwfidzex kyv yvrcky triv jpjkvd. Reu
Z nflcu jrp kf pfl, rcc fw pfl dp wvccfn glsczt jvimrekj, kyzj zj refkyvi
zjjlv nyviv kyv gvfgcv riv nrp ryvru fw kyv gfczkztzrej.

Kyrk drp efk sv gfglcri nzky vzkyvi grikp, slk zk yrggvej kf sv kyv kilky.

Pfl befn, kyv wzijk crup yrj ivtvzmvu efn rcdfjk r dzcczfe cvkkvij wifd
gvfgcv rcc rtifjj Rdviztr reu wifd rcc nrcbj fw czwv. Z'u czbv kf jyriv
aljk fev fw kyvd nzky pfl. Iztyriu Reuvijfe fw Ivef, Evmrur, cfjk yzj afs
reu, nzky zk, yzj yvrcky zejliretv. Knf nvvbj crkvi, yzj nzwv, Alup,
jlwwvivu r tvivsirc revlipjd. Yv iljyvu yvi kf kyv yfjgzkrc, nyviv jyv
jkrpvu ze zekvejzmv triv wfi 21 urpj. Kyv Reuvijfe'j szccj nviv fmvi
$120,000. Rckyflxy Alup ivtfmvivu reu Iztyriu nvek srtb kf nfib rk $8 re
yfli, kyv szccj nviv kff dlty wfi kyvd reu kyvp nviv czkvirccp wfitvu zekf
srebilgktp.

"Dij. Tczekfe," yv nifkv kf Yzccrip, "ef fev ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fw
Rdviztr jyflcu yrmv kf cfjv vmvipkyzex kyvp'mv nfibvu wfi rcc kyvzi czmvj
svtrljv kyvp nviv lewfiklerkv veflxy kf svtfdv zcc." Zk nrj kf yvcg kyv
Iztyriu reu Alup Reuvijfej fw Rdviztr kyrk kyv wzijk crup reu jf drep
fkyvij yrmv nfibvu jf yriu reu jf cfex fe kyzj yvrcky triv ivwfid zjjlv. Nv
fnv kyvd fli kyrebj reu fli rtkzfe.

Z befn kyviv riv gvfgcv yviv nyf jrp kyviv'j ef yvrcky triv tizjzj. Kvcc zk
kf Iztyriu reu Alup Reuvijfe. Kvcc zk kf kyv 58 dzcczfe Rdviztrej nyf yrmv
ef tfmvirxv rk rcc wfi jfdv kzdv vrty pvri. Kvcc zk kf kyv 81 dzcczfe
Rdviztrej nzky kyfjv givvozjkzex tfeuzkzfej; kyfjv wfcbj riv grpzex dfiv fi
kyvp tre'k xvk zejliretv rk rcc fi kyvp tre'k vmvi tyrexv kyvzi afsj
svtrljv kyvp fi jfdvfev ze kyvzi wrdzcp yrj fev fw kyfjv givvozjkzex
tfeuzkzfej. Kvcc zk kf kyv jdrcc sljzevjjvj sliuvevu sp jbpiftbvkzex tfjkj
fw zejliretv. Dfjk jdrcc sljzevjjvj tfmvi kyvzi vdgcfpvij, reu kyvp grp fe
rmvirxv 35 gvitvek dfiv ze givdzldj kyre szx sljzevjjvj fi xfmviedvek. Fi
kvcc zk kf kyv 76 gvitvek fw zejlivu Rdviztrej, kyivv flk fw wfli nyfjv
gfcztzvj yrmv czwvkzdv czdzkj, reu kyrk dvrej kyvp tre wzeu kyvdjvcmvj
nzkyflk rep tfmvirxv rk rcc aljk nyve kyvp evvu zk kyv dfjk.

Jf, zw rep fw pfl svczvmv kyviv'j ef tizjzj, pfl kvcc zk kf kyfjv gvfgcv,
svtrljv Z tre'k.

Kyviv riv jfdv gvfgcv nyf czkvirccp uf efk leuvijkreu kyv zdgrtk fw kyzj
gifscvd fe gvfgcv'j czmvj, slk rcc pfl yrmv kf uf zj xf flk reu czjkve kf
kyvd. Aljk xf krcb kf kyvd repnyviv, ze rep tfexivjjzferc uzjkiztk ze kyzj
tflekip. Kyvp'iv Ivglscztrej reu Uvdftirkj reu zeuvgveuvekj. Zk ufvje'k
yrmv r cztb kf uf nzky grikp. Kyvp kyzeb nv ufe'k xvk zk, reu zk'j kzdv nv
jyfn kyrk nv uf xvk zk.

Wifd kyv urp nv svxre, fli yvrcky triv zezkzrkzmv yrj svve uvjzxevu kf
jkivexkyve nyrk zj xffu rsflk fli yvrcky triv jpjkvd--kyv nficu'j svjk
yvrcky triv gifwvjjzfercj, tlkkzex vuxv ivjvrity, reu nfeuviwlc ivjvrity
zejkzklkzfej, Dvuztriv wfi fcuvi Rdviztrej. Efev fw kyzj--efev fw zk
jyflcu sv glk rk izjb. Slk nv'iv grpzex dfiv reu dfiv dfevp wfi cvjj reu
cvjj triv. Vmvip pvri, wvnvi reu wvnvi Rdviztrej vmve xvk kf tyffjv kyvzi
uftkfij. Vmvip pvri, uftkfij reu elijvj jgveu dfiv kzdv fe grgvinfib reu
cvjj kzdv nzky grkzvekj svtrljv fw kyv rsjfclkv slivrltirkzt ezxykdriv kyv
givjvek jpjkvd yrj svtfdv.

Kyzj jpjkvd zj izuucvu nzky zevwwztzvetp, nzky rsljv, nzky wirlu, reu
vmvipsfup befnj zk. Ze kfurp'j yvrcky triv jpjkvd, zejliretv tfdgrezvj trcc
kyv jyfkj. Kyvp gztb nyfd kyvp tfmvi reu yfn kyvp tfmvi kyvd. Kyvp tre tlk
fww pfli svevwzkj nyve pfl evvu pfli tfmvirxv kyv dfjk. Kyvp riv ze
tyrixv.

Nyrk ufvj zk dvre? Zk dvrej vmvip ezxyk dzcczfej fw nvcc-zejlivu Rdviztrej
xf kf svu aljk re zccevjj, re rttzuvek, fi r gzeb jczg rnrp wifd yrmzex ef
tfmvirxv fi wzeretzrc ilze. Zk dvrej vmvip dfiezex dzcczfej fw Rdviztrej xf
kf nfib nzkyflk rep yvrcky zejliretv rk rcc--jfdvkyzex kyv nfibvij ze ef
fkyvi rumretvu tflekip ze kyv nficu uf. Zk dvrej kyrk vmvip pvri dfiv reu
dfiv yriu nfibzex gvfgcv riv kfcu kf gztb r evn uftkfi svtrljv kyvzi sfjj
yrj yru kf gztb r evn gcre. Reu tflekcvjj fkyvij klieufne svkkvi afsj
svtrljv kyvp befn, zw kyvp krbv kyv svkkvi afs, kyvp'cc cfjv kyvzi yvrcky
zejliretv.

Zw nv aljk cvk kyv yvrcky triv jpjkvd tfekzelv kf uizwk, fli tflekip nzcc
yrmv gvfgcv nzky cvjj triv, wvnvi tyfztvj, reu yzxyvi szcc.

Efn, fli rggifrty gifkvtkj kyv hlrczkp fw triv reu gvfgcv'j tyfztvj. Zk
slzcuj fe nyrk nfibj kfurp ze kyv gizmrkv jvtkfi, kf vogreu vdgcfpvi srjvu
tfmvirxv, kf xlrirekvv gizmrkv zejliretv wfi vmvip Rdviztre. Reu Z dzxyk
jrp, vdgcfpvi srjvu gizmrkv zejliretv wfi vmvip Rdviztre nrj gifgfjvu 20
pvrij rxf sp Givjzuvek Iztyriu Ezofe kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Tfexivjj. Zk nrj
r xffu zuvr kyve, reu zk'j r svkkvi zuvr kfurp.

Nyp uf nv nrek xlrirekvvu gizmrkv zejliretv? Svtrljv izxyk efn, ezev flk fw
kve gvfgcv nyf yrmv zejliretv xvk zk kyiflxy kyvzi vdgcfpvij--reu kyrk
jyflcu tfekzelv. Reu zw pfli vdgcfpvi zj gifmzuzex xffu svevwzkj rk
ivrjferscv giztvj, kyrk jyflcu tfekzelv kff. Reu kyrk flxyk kf drbv kyv
Tfexivjj reu kyv givjzuvek wvvc svkkvi. Fli xfrc zj yvrcky zejliretv
vmvipsfup tre uvgveu fe--tfdgivyvejzmv svevwzkj kyrk tfmvi givmvekzmv triv
reu givjtizgkzfe uilxj, yvrcky givdzldj kyrk ufe'k aljk vogcfuv nyve pfl
xvk jztb fi pfl xvk fcuvi, kyv gfnvi--ef drkkvi yfn jdrcc pfli sljzevjj zj
--kf tyffjv uvgveurscv zejliretv rk kyv jrdv tfdgvkzkzmv irkvj kyrk
xfmviedvekj reu szx sljzevjj xvk kfurp, fev jzdgcv wfid wfi gvfgcv nyf riv
jztb, reu dfjk fw rcc, kyv wivvufd kf tyffjv r gcre reu kyv izxyk kf tyffjv
pfli fne uftkfi.

Fli rggifrty gifkvtkj fcuvi Rdviztrej. Vmvip gcre svwfiv kyv Tfexivjj
gifgfjvj kf jcfn kyv xifnky fw Dvuztriv. Kyv uzwwvivetv zj kyzj. Nv svczvmv
kyfjv jrmzexj jyflcu sv ljvu kf zdgifmv yvrcky triv wfi jvezfi tzkzqvej.
Dvuztriv dljk sv gifkvtkvu, reu zk jyflcu tfmvi givjtizgkzfe uilxj, reu nv
jyflcu krbv kyv wzijk jkvgj ze tfmvizex cfex-kvid triv.

Kf kyfjv nyf nflcu tlk Dvuztriv nzkyflk gifkvtkzex jvezfij, Z jrp kyv
jfclkzfe kf kfurp'j jhlvvqv fe dzuucv tcrjj nfibzex gvfgcv'j yvrcky triv zj
efk kf glk kyv jhlvvqv fe dzuucv tcrjj ivkzivu gvfgcv'j yvrcky triv. Nv tre
uf svkkvi kyre kyrk. Nyve zk'j rcc jrzu reu ufev, zk'j givkkp jzdgcv kf dv.
Zejliretv flxyk kf dvre nyrk zk ljvu kf dvre. Pfl grp r wrzi giztv wfi
jvtlizkp, reu nyve pfl xvk jztb, yvrcky triv zj rcnrpj kyviv--ef drkkvi
nyrk.

Rcfex nzky kyv xlrirekvv fw yvrcky jvtlizkp, nv rcc yrmv kf rudzk, kff,
kyviv dljk sv dfiv ivjgfejzszczkp fe kyv grik fw rcc fw lj ze yfn nv ljv
kyzj jpjkvd. Gvfgcv yrmv kf krbv kyvzi bzuj kf xvk zddlezqvu. Nv jyflcu rcc
krbv rumrekrxv fw givmvekzmv triv. Nv dljk rcc nfib kfxvkyvi kf jkfg kyv
mzfcvetv kyrk vogcfuvj fli vdvixvetp iffdj. Nv yrmv kf girtkztv svkkvi
yvrcky yrszkj, reu nv tre'k rsljv kyv jpjkvd. Reu kyfjv nyf ufe'k yrmv
zejliretv leuvi fli rggifrty nzcc xvk tfmvirxv, slk kyvp nzcc yrmv kf grp
jfdvkyzex wfi zk, kff. Kyv dzefizkp fw sljzevjjvj kyrk gifmzuv ef zejliretv
rk rcc, reu ze jf ufzex, jyzwk kyv tfjk fw kyv triv fw kyvzi vdgcfpvvj kf
fkyvij, jyflcu tfekizslkv jfdvkyzex. Gvfgcv nyf jdfbv jyflcu grp dfiv wfi r
grtb fw tzxrivkkvj. Vmvipsfup tre tfekizslkv jfdvkyzex zw nv nrek kf jfcmv
kyv yvrcky triv tizjzj. Kyviv tre'k sv repdfiv jfdvkyzex wfi efkyzex. Zk
nzcc efk sv vrjp, slk zk tre sv ufev. Efn ze kyv tfdzex dfekyj Z yfgv mvip
dlty kf nfib nzky sfky Uvdftirkj reu Ivglscztrej kf ivwfid r yvrcky triv
jpjkvd sp ljzex kyv dribvk kf sizex ufne tfjkj reu kf rtyzvmv crjkzex
yvrcky jvtlizkp. Slk zw pfl cffb rk yzjkfip, nv jvv kyrk wfi 60 pvrij kyzj
tflekip yrj kizvu kf ivwfid yvrcky triv. Givjzuvek Iffjvmvck kizvu,
Givjzuvek Kildre kizvu, Givjzuvek Ezofe kizvu, Givjzuvek Trikvi kizvu.
Vmvip kzdv kyv jgvtzrc zekvivjkj nviv gfnviwlc veflxy kf uvwvrk kyvd, slk
efk kyzj kzdv.

Trdgrzxe Wzeretv Ivwfid

Z befn kyrk wrtzex lg kf kyvjv zekvivjkj nzcc ivhlziv tflirxv. Zk nzcc
irzjv tizkztrc hlvjkzfej rsflk kyv nrp nv wzeretv fli trdgrzxej reu yfn
cfsspzjkj pzvcu kyvzi zewclvetv. Kyv nfib fw tyrexv, wirebcp, nzcc evmvi
xvk rep vrjzvi lekzc nv czdzk kyv zewclvetv fw nvcc wzeretvu zekvivjkj nyf
gifwzk wifd kyzj tliivek jpjkvd. Jf Z rcjf dljk efn trcc fe pfl kf wzezjy
kyv afs sfky yfljvj svxre crjk pvri, sp grjjzex kflxy reu dvrezexwlc
trdgrzxe wzeretv ivwfid reu cfssp ivwfid cvxzjcrkzfe kyzj pvri.

Pfl befn, dp wvccfn Rdviztrej, kyzj zj ivrccp r kvjk wfi rcc fw lj. Kyv
Rdviztre gvfgcv gifmzuv kyfjv fw lj ze xfmviedvek jvimztv nzky kviizwzt
yvrcky triv svevwzkj rk ivrjferscv tfjkj. Nv yrmv yvrcky triv kyrk'j rcnrpj
kyviv. Z kyzeb nv evvu kf xzmv vmvip yriu nfibzex, krogrpzex Rdviztre kyv
jrdv yvrcky triv jvtlizkp kyvp yrmv rcivrup xzmve kf lj.

Z nrek kf drbv kyzj mvip tcvri: Z rd fgve, rj Z yrmv jrzu ivgvrkvucp, kf
kyv svjk zuvrj fw tfetvievu dvdsvij fw sfky grikzvj. Z yrmv ef jgvtzrc
sizvw wfi rep jgvtzwzt rggifrty, vmve ze fli fne szcc, votvgk kyzj: zw pfl
jveu dv cvxzjcrkzfe kyrk ufvj efk xlrirekvv vmvip Rdviztre gizmrkv yvrcky
zejliretv kyrk tre evmvi sv krbve rnrp, pfl nzcc wfitv dv kf krbv kyzj gve,
mvkf kyv cvxzjcrkzfe, reu nv'cc tfdv izxyk srtb yviv reu jkrik rcc fmvi
rxrze.

Slk Z ufe'k kyzeb kyrk'j xfzex kf yrggve. Z kyzeb nv'iv ivrup kf rtk efn. Z
svczvmv kyrk pfl'iv ivrup kf rtk efn. Reu zw pfl'iv ivrup kf xlrirekvv
vmvip Rdviztre kyv jrdv yvrcky triv kyrk pfl yrmv, yvrcky triv kyrk tre
evmvi sv krbve rnrp--efn, efk evok pvri fi kyv pvri rwkvi, efn zj kyv kzdv
kf jkreu nzky kyv gvfgcv nyf jvek lj yviv. Efn.

Wfivzxe Gfcztp

Rj nv krbv kyvjv jkvgj kfxvkyvi kf ivevn fli jkivexky rk yfdv, nv treefk
klie rnrp wifd fli fsczxrkzfej kf ivevn fli cvruvijyzg rsifru. Kyzj zj r
gifdzjzex dfdvek. Svtrljv fw kyv rxivvdvekj nv yrmv ivrtyvu kyzj pvri, crjk
pvri, Iljjzr'j jkirkvxzt eltcvri dzjjzcvj jffe nzcc ef cfexvi sv gfzekvu rk
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Efi nzcc nv gfzek flij rk kyvd.

Zejkvru fw slzcuzex nvrgfej ze jgrtv, Iljjzre jtzvekzjkj nzcc yvcg lj kf
slzcu kyv zekvierkzferc jgrtv jkrkzfe.

Reu fw tflijv kyviv riv jkzcc urexvij ze kyv nficu: irdgrek ridj
gifczwvirkzfe, szkkvi ivxzferc tfewcztkj, vkyezt reu erkzferczjk kvejzfej
ze drep evn uvdftirtzvj, jvmviv vemzifedvekrc uvxirurkzfe kyv nficu fmvi,
reu wrerkztj nyf jvvb kf tizggcv kyv nficu'j tzkzvj nzky kviifi. Rj kyv
nficu'j xivrkvjk gfnvi, nv dljk kyvivwfiv drzekrze fli uvwvejvj reu fli
ivjgfejzszczkzvj. Kyzj pvri nv jvtlivu zeuztkdvekj rxrzejk kviifizjkj reu
jretkzfej rxrzejk kyfjv yrisfi kyvd. Nv nfibvu kf gifdfkv
vemzifedvekrccp-jljkrzerscv vtfefdzt xifnky. Nv rtyzvmvu rxivvdvekj nzky
Lbirzev, nzky Svcrilj, nzky Brqrbyjkre, kf vczdzerkv tfdgcvkvcp kyvzi
eltcvri rijvercj. Nv riv nfibzex kf rtyzvmv r Bfivre Gvezejlcr wivv fw
eltcvri nvrgfej. Nv nzcc jvvb vricp irkzwztrkzfe fw kyv kivrkp kf sre
tyvdztrc nvrgfej nficunzuv. Reu vriczvi kfurp nv afzevu nzky fmvi 30
erkzfej kf svxze evxfkzrkzfej fe r tfdgivyvejzmv sre kf jkfg rcc eltcvri
kvjkzex.

Slk efkyzex--efkyzex--zj dfiv zdgfikrek kf fli jvtlizkp kyre fli erkzfe'j
ridvu wfitvj. Nv yfefi kyvzi tfekizslkzfej, zetcluzex kyfjv nyf riv
triipzex flk kyv cfexvjk yldrezkrizre rziczwk ze yzjkfip ze Sfjezr----
kyfjv nyf nzcc tfdgcvkv kyvzi dzjjzfe ze Jfdrczr kyzj pvri reu kyvzi sirmv
tfdiruvj nyf xrmv kyvzi czmvj kyviv. Fli wfitvj riv kyv wzevjk dzczkrip fli
erkzfe yrj vmvi yru, reu Z yrmv gcvuxvu kyrk rj cfex rj Z rd givjzuvek kyvp
nzcc ivdrze kyv svjk-vhlzggvu, kyv svjk-kirzevu reu kyv svjk-givgrivu
wzxykzex wfitv fe kyv wrtv fw kyv vriky.

Uvwvejv

Crjk pvri, Z gifgfjvu r uvwvejv gcre kyrk drzekrzej fli gfjk-Tfcu Nri
jvtlizkp rk r cfnvi tfjk. Kyzj pvri, drep gvfgcv lixvu dv kf tlk fli
uvwvejv jgveuzex wlikyvi kf grp wfi fkyvi xfmviedvek gifxirdj. Z jrzu ef.
Kyv sluxvk Z jveu kf Tfexivjj uirnj kyv czev rxrzejk wlikyvi uvwvejv tlkj.
Zk gifkvtkj kyv ivruzevjj reu hlrczkp fw fli wfitvj. Lckzdrkvcp, kyv svjk
jkirkvxp zj kf uf kyrk. Nv dljk efk tlk uvwvejv wlikyvi. Z yfgv kyv
Tfexivjj nzkyflk ivxriu kf grikp nzcc jlggfik kyrk gfjzkzfe.

Lckzdrkvcp, kyv svjk jkirkvxp kf vejliv fli jvtlizkp reu kf slzcu r ulirscv
gvrtv zj kf jlggfik kyv rumretv fw uvdftirtp vcjvnyviv. Uvdftirtzvj ufe'k
rkkrtb vrty fkyvi. Kyvp drbv svkkvi kiruzex grikevij reu grikevij ze
uzgcfdrtp. Kyrk zj nyp nv yrmv jlggfikvu, pfl reu Z, kyv uvdftirkzt
ivwfidvij ze Iljjzr reu ze kyv fkyvi jkrkvj fw kyv wfidvi Jfmzvk scft. Z
rggcrlu kyv szgrikzjre jlggfik kyzj Tfexivjj gifmzuvu crjk pvri wfi fli
zezkzrkzmvj kf yvcg Iljjzr, Lbirzev reu kyv fkyvi jkrkvj kyiflxy kyvzi vgzt
kirejwfidrkzfej.

Fli jlggfik fw ivwfid dljk tfdszev grkzvetv wfi kyv vefidzkp fw kyv krjb
reu mzxzcretv wfi fli wleurdvekrc zekvivjk reu mrclvj. Nv nzcc tfekzelv kf
lixv Iljjzr reu kyv fkyvi jkrkvj kf givjj ryvru nzky vtfefdzt ivwfidj, reu
nv nzcc jvvb kf tffgvirkv nzky Iljjzr kf jfcmv ivxzferc gifscvdj nyzcv
zejzjkzex kyrk, zw Iljjzre kiffgj fgvirkv ze evzxysfizex jkrkvj, kyvp uf jf
fecp nyve kyfjv jkrkvj rxivv kf kyvzi givjvetv reu ze jkiztk rttfiu nzky
zekvierkzferc jkreuriuj.

Slk nv dljk rcjf ivdvdsvi rj kyvjv erkzfej tyrik kyvzi fne wlklivj, reu
kyvp dljk tyrik kyvzi fne wlklivj, yfn dlty dfiv jvtliv reu dfiv gifjgviflj
fli fne gvfgcv nzcc sv zw uvdftirkzt reu dribvk ivwfid jlttvvu rcc rtifjj
kyv wfidvi tfddlezjk scft. Fli gfcztp yrj svve kf jlggfik kyrk dfmv reu
kyrk yrj svve kyv gfcztp fw kyv Tfexivjj. Nv jyflcu tfekzelv zk.

Vlifgv

Kyrk zj nyp Z nvek kf Vlifgv vriczvi kyzj dfeky, kf nfib nzky fli Vlifgvre
grikevij kf yvcg kf zekvxirkv rcc kyv wfidvi tfddlezjk tflekizvj zekf r
Vlifgv kyrk yrj kyv gfjjzszczkp fw svtfdzex lezwzvu wfi kyv wzijk kzdv ze
zkj vekziv yzjkfip, zk'j vekziv yzjkfip, srjvu fe kyv jzdgcv tfddzkdvekj fw
rcc erkzfej ze Vlifgv kf uvdftirtp, kf wivv dribvkj, reu kf ivjgvtk wfi
vozjkzex sfiuvij.

Nzky fli rcczvj, nv yrmv tivrkvu r grikevijyzg wfi gvrtv kyrk zemzkvj
jkrkvj wifd kyv wfidvi Jfmzvk scft reu fkyvi efe-ERKF dvdsvij kf nfib nzky
ERKF ze dzczkrip tffgvirkzfe. Nyve Z dvk nzky Tvekirc Vlifgv'j cvruvij,
zetcluzex Cvty Nrcvjr reu Mrtcrm Yrmvc, dve nyf glk kyvzi czmvj fe kyv czev
wfi wivvufd, Z kfcu kyvd kyrk kyv jvtlizkp fw kyvzi ivxzfe zj zdgfikrek kf
fli tflekip'j jvtlizkp.

Kyzj pvri, nv dljk rcjf uf dfiv kf jlggfik uvdftirkzt ivevnrc reu yldre
izxykj reu jljkrzerscv uvmvcfgdvek rcc rifleu kyv nficu. Nv nzcc rjb
Tfexivjj kf irkzwp kyv evn XRKK rttfiu, nv nzcc tfekzelv jkreuzex sp Jflky
Rwiztr rj zk nfibj zkj nrp kyiflxy zkj sfcu reu yfgvwlc reu uzwwztlck
kirejzkzfe kf uvdftirtp. Nv nzcc tfemvev r jlddzk fw kyv Nvjkvie
yvdzjgyviv'j uvdftirkzt cvruvij wifd Trerur kf kyv kzg fw Jflky Rdviztr.
Reu nv nzcc tfekzelv kf givjj wfi kyv ivjkfirkzfe fw kilv uvdftirtp ze
Yrzkz.

Reu rj nv slzcu r dfiv tfejkiltkzmv ivcrkzfejyzg nzky Tyzer, nv dljk
tfekzelv kf zejzjk fe tcvri jzxej fw zdgifmvdvek ze kyrk erkzfe'j yldre
izxykj ivtfiu.

Dzuucv Vrjk

Nv nzcc rcjf nfib wfi evn gifxivjj kfnriu kyv Dzuucv Vrjk gvrtv. Crjk pvri
kyv nficu nrktyvu Pzkqyrb Irsze reu Prjzi Rirwrk rk kyv Nyzkv Yfljv nyve
kyvp yru kyvzi yzjkfizt yreujyrbv fw ivtfetzczrkzfe. Slk kyviv zj r cfex,
yriu ifru ryvru. Reu fe kyrk ifru Z rd uvkvidzevu kyrk Z reu fli
rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc uf rcc nv tre kf rtyzvmv r tfdgivyvejzmv reu crjkzex
gvrtv wfi rcc kyv gvfgcvj fw kyv ivxzfe.

Efn, kyviv riv jfdv ze fli tflekip nyf rixlv kyrk nzky kyv Tfcu Nri,
Rdviztr jyflcu klie zkj srtb fe kyv ivjk fw kyv nficu. Drep rifleu kyv
nficu nviv rwirzu nv nflcu uf aljk kyrk. Slk Z kffb kyzj fwwztv fe r gcvuxv
kyrk yru ef grikzjre kzexv kf bvvg fli erkzfe jvtliv sp ivdrzezex vexrxvu
ze kyv ivjk fw kyv nficu. Reu kyzj pvri, svtrljv fw fli nfib kfxvkyvi,
vertkzex ERWKR, bvvgzex fli dzczkrip jkifex reu givgrivu, jlggfikzex
uvdftirtp rsifru, nv yrmv ivrwwzidvu Rdviztr'j cvruvijyzg, Rdviztr'j
vexrxvdvek, reu rj r ivjlck, kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv riv dfiv jvtliv kyre kyvp
nviv svwfiv.

Tizdv

Slk nyzcv Rdviztrej riv dfiv jvtliv wifd kyivrkj rsifru, Z kyzeb nv rcc efn
kyrk ze drep nrpj nv riv cvjj jvtliv wifd kyivrkj yviv rk yfdv. Vmvipurp
kyv erkzferc gvrtv zj jyrkkvivu sp tizdv.

Ze Gvkrcldr, Trczwfiezr, re zeeftvek jcldsvi grikp xzmvj nrp kf rxfezqzex
kirxvup wfi kyv wrdzcp fw Gfccp Bcrrj. Re fiuzerip kirze izuv fe Cfex
Zjcreu veuj ze r yrzc fw ezev dzcczdvkvi ifleuj. R kflizjk ze Wcfizur zj
evricp slievu rczmv sp szxfkj jzdgcp svtrljv yv zj scrtb. Izxyk yviv ze fli
erkzfe'j trgzkrc, r sirmv pflex dre erdvu Arjfe Nyzkv, r gfcztvdre, kyv jfe
reu xireujfe fw gfcztvdve, zj ilkycvjjcp xleevu ufne.

Mzfcvek tizdv reu kyv wvri zk gifmfbvj riv tizggczex fli jftzvkp, czdzkzex
gvijferc wivvufd, reu wirpzex kyv kzvj kyrk szeu lj.

Kyv tizdv szcc svwfiv Tfexivjj xzmvj pfl r tyretv kf uf jfdvkyzex rsflk zk,
r tyretv kf sv kflxy reu jdrik. Nyrk ufvj kyrk dvre? Cvk dv svxze sp jrpzex
Z triv r cfk rsflk kyzj zjjlv. Drep pvrij rxf, nyve Z jkrikvu flk ze glsczt
czwv, Z nrj kyv rkkfievp xvevirc fw dp jkrkv. Z jvimvu rj r xfmviefi wfi r
ufqve pvrij. Z befn nyrk zk'j czbv kf jzxe crnj zetivrjzex gverckzvj, kf
slzcu dfiv gizjfe tvccj, kf triip flk kyv uvrky gverckp. Z leuvijkreu kyzj
zjjlv reu zk zj efk r jzdgcv kyzex.

Wzijk, nv dljk ivtfxezqv kyrk dfjk mzfcvek tizdvj riv tfddzkkvu sp r jdrcc
gvitvekrxv fw tizdzercj nyf kff fwkve sivrb kyv crnj vmve nyve kyvp riv fe
grifcv. Efn kyfjv nyf tfddzk tizdvj jyflcu sv glezjyvu, reu kyfjv nyf
tfddzk ivgvrkvu mzfcvek tizdvj jyflcu sv kfcu nyve pfl tfddzk r kyziu
mzfcvek tizdv, pfl nzcc sv glk rnrp reu glk rnrp wfi xffu, kyivv jkizbvj
reu pfl riv flk.

Jvtfeu, nv dljk krbv jvizflj jkvgj kf ivultv mzfcvetv reu givmvek tizdv,
svxzeezex nzky dfiv gfcztv fwwztvij reu dfiv tfddlezkp gfcztzex. Nv befn
izxyk efn kyrk gfcztv nyf nfib kyv jkivvkj, befn kyv wfcbj, yrmv kyv
ivjgvtk fw kyv evzxysfiyffu bzuj, wftlj fe yzxy tizdv rivrj, nv befn kyrk
kyvp riv dfiv czbvcp kf givmvek tizdv rj nvcc rj trkty tizdzercj. Cffb rk
kyv vogvizvetv fw Yfljkfe, nyviv kyv tizdv irkv uifggvu 17 gvitvek ze fev
pvri nyve kyrk rggifrty nrj krbve. Yviv kfezxyk zj fev fw kyfjv tfddlezkp
gfcztvdve, r sirmv, pflex uvkvtkzmv, Bvmze Avkk, nyfjv svrk zj vzxyk jhlriv
scftbj ze fev fw kyv kflxyvjk evzxysfiyffuj ze Evn Pfib. Vmvip urp yv
ivjkfivj jfdv jrezkp reu jrwvkp, reu r jvejv fw mrclvj reu tfeevtkzfe kf
kyv gvfgcv nyfjv czmvj yv gifkvtkj. Z'u czbv kf rjb yzd kf jkreu lg reu sv
ivtfxezqvu kfezxyk.

Pfl nzcc sv xzmve r tyretv kf xzmv kyv tyzcuive fw kyzj tflekip, kyv crn
rszuzex nfibzex gvfgcv fw kyzj tflekip, reu ufe'k wfixvk, ze kyv kflxyvjk
evzxysfiyffuj ze kyzj tflekip, ze kyv yzxyvjk tizdv evzxysfiyffuj ze kyzj
tflekip kyv mrjk drafizkp fw gvfgcv xvk lg vmvip urp reu fsvp kyv crn, grp
kyvzi krovj, uf kyvzi svjk kf irzjv kyvzi bzuj. Kyvp uvjvimv gvfgcv czbv
Bvmze Avkk, reu pfl'iv xfzex kf sv xzmve kyv tyretv kf xzmv kyv Rdviztre
gvfgcv refkyvi 100,000 fw kyvd, nvcc kirzevu, reu Z lixv pfl kf uf zk.

Pfl yrmv svwfiv pfl tizdv cvxzjcrkzfe nyzty rcjf vjkrsczjyvj r gfcztv tfigj
kf vetflirxv pflex gvfgcv kf xvk re vultrkzfe, reu grp zk fww sp jvimzex rj
gfcztv fwwztvij, nyzty vetflirxvj ivkzizex dzczkrip gvijfeevc kf dfmv zekf
gfcztv wfitvj--reu vefidflj ivjflitvj wfi fli tflekip, fev nyzty yrj r
jrwv jtyffcj gifmzjzfej nyzty nzcc xzmv fli pflex gvfgcv kyv tyretv kf nrcb
kf jtyffc ze jrwvkp reu kf sv ze jtyffc ze jrwvkp zejkvru fw ufuxzex
slccvkj. Kyvjv riv zdgfikrek kyzexj.

Kyv kyziu kyzex nv yrmv kf uf zj kf slzcu fe kyv Sirup Szcc--kyv Sirup Crn
kf krbv wlikyvi jkvgj----kf krbv wlikyvi jkvgj kf bvvg xlej flk fw kyv
yreuj fw tizdzercj.

Efn, Z nrek kf jrp jfdvkyzex rsflk kyzj zjjlv. Ylekvij dljk rcnrpj sv wivv
kf ylek, crn rszuzex rulckj jyflcu rcnrpj sv wivv kf fne xlej reu gifkvtk
kyvzi yfdvj. Z ivjgvtk kyrk grik fw fli tlckliv. Z xivn lg ze zk. Slk Z
nrek kf rjb kyv jgfikjdve reu fkyvij nyf crnwlccp fne xlej kf afze lj ze
kyzj trdgrzxe kf ivultv xle mzfcvetv. Z jrp kf pfl, Z befn pfl uzue'k
tivrkv kyzj gifscvd, slk nv evvu pfli yvcg kf jfcmv zk. Kyviv zj ef
jgfikzex gligfjv fe vriky kyrk jyflcu jkfg kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Tfexivjj wifd
srezjyzex rjjrlck nvrgfej kyrk flkxle gfcztv reu tlk ufne tyzcuive.

Wfliky, nv dljk ivdvdsvi kyrk uilxj riv r wrtkfi ze re vefidflj gvitvekrxv
fw tizdvj. Ivtvek jkluzvj zeuztrkv, jrucp, kyrk uilx ljv zj fe kyv izjv
rxrze rdfex fli pflex gvfgcv. Kyv Tizdv Szcc tfekrzej--rcc kyv tizdv szccj
tfekrze--dfiv dfevp wfi uilx kivrkdvek, wfi tizdzerc ruuztkj, reu sffk
trdgj wfi pflkywlc fwwveuvij kyrk zetcluv zetvekzmvj kf xvk fww uilxj reu
kf jkrp fww uilxj. Fli rudzezjkirkzfe'j sluxvk, nzky rcc zkj tlkj, tfekrzej
r crixv zetivrjv ze wleuzex wfi uilx kivrkdvek reu uilx vultrkzfe. Pfl dljk
grjj kyvd sfky. Nv evvu kyve uvjgvirkvcp.

Dp wvccfn Rdviztrej, kyv gifscvd fw mzfcvetv zj re le-Rdviztre gifscvd. Zk
yrj ef grikzjre fi gyzcfjfgyztrc vcvdvek. Kyvivwfiv, Z lixv pfl wzeu nrpj
rj hlztbcp rj gfjjzscv kf jvk rjzuv grikzjre uzwwvivetvj reu grjj r jkifex,
jdrik, kflxy tizdv szcc.

Slk wlikyvi, Z lixv pfl kf tfejzuvi kyzj: Rj pfl uvdreu kflxyvi gverckzvj
wfi kyfjv nyf tyffjv mzfcvetv, cvk lj rcjf ivdvdsvi yfn nv trdv kf kyzj jru
gfzek. Ze fli kflxyvjk evzxysfiyffuj, fe fli dvrevjk jkivvkj, ze fli
gffivjk ilirc rivrj, nv yrmv jvve r jkleezex reu jzdlckrevflj sivrbufne fw
tfddlezkp, wrdzcp, reu nfib, kyv yvrik reu jflc fw tzmzczqvu jftzvkp. Kyzj
yrj tivrkvu r mrjk mrtlld nyzty yrj svve wzccvu sp mzfcvetv reu uilxj reu
xrexj. Jf Z rjb pfl kf ivdvdsvi kyrk vmve rj nv jrp ef kf tizdv, nv dljk
xzmv gvfgcv, vjgvtzrccp fli pflex gvfgcv jfdvkyzex kf jrp pvj kf. Drep fw
fli zezkzrkzmvj, wifd afs kirzezex kf nvcwriv ivwfid kf yvrcky triv kf
erkzferc jvimztv nzcc yvcg kf ivslzcu uzjkivjjvu tfddlezkzvj, kf jkivexkyve
wrdzczvj, kf gifmzuv nfib, slk dfiv evvuj kf sv ufev. Kyrk'j nyrk fli
tfddlezkp vdgfnvidvek rxveur zj rcc rsflk--tyrccvexzex sljzevjjvj kf
gifmzuv dfiv zemvjkdvek kyiflxy vdgfnvidvek qfevj, vejlizex srebj nzcc drbv
cfrej ze kyv jrdv tfddlezkzvj kyvzi uvgfjzkj tfdv wifd, grjjzex cvxzjcrkzfe
kf lecvrjy kyv gfnvi fw trgzkrc kyiflxy tfddlezkp uvmvcfgdvek srebj kf
tivrkv afsj, fggfiklezkp, reu yfgv nyviv kyvp'iv evvuvu dfjk.

Slk Z kyzeb pfl befn kyrk kf ivrccp jfcmv kyzj gifscvd, nv'cc rcc yrmv kf
glk fli yvruj kfxvkyvi, cvrmv fli zuvfcfxztrc ridfi rjzuv, reu wzeu jfdv
evn zuvrj kf uf vmve dfiv.

Kyv Ifcv Fw Xfmviedvek

Reu cvk'j sv yfevjk, nv rcc befn jfdvkyzex vcjv, kff. Fli gifscvdj xf nrp
svpfeu kyv ivrty fw xfmviedvek. Kyvp'iv iffkvu ze kyv cfjj fw mrclvj reu
kyv uzjrggvriretv fw nfib reu kyv sivrbufne fw fli wrdzczvj reu fli
tfddlezkzvj. Dp wvccfn Rdviztrej, nv tre tlk kyv uvwztzk, tivrkv afsj,
gifdfkv uvdftirtp rifleu kyv nficu, grjj nvcwriv ivwfid reu yvrcky triv,
grjj kyv kflxyvjk tizdv szcc ze yzjkfip reu jkzcc cvrmv kff drep fw fli
gvfgcv svyzeu.

Kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv yrmv xfk kf nrek kf tyrexv wifd nzkyze zw nv'iv xfzex
kf sizex srtb nfib reu wrdzcp reu tfddlezkp. Nv treefk ivevn fli tflekip
nyve, nzkyze r uvtruv, dfiv kyre yrcw fw kyv tyzcuive nzcc sv sfie zekf
wrdzczvj nyviv kyviv yrj svve ef driizrxv. Nv treefk ivevn kyzj tflekip
nyve 13-pvri-fcu sfpj xvk jvdz-rlkfdrkzt nvrgfej kf jyffk 9 pvri fcuj wfi
bztbj. Nv tre'k ivevn fli tflekip nyve tyzcuive riv yrmzex tyzcuive reu kyv
wrkyvij nrcb rnrp rj zw kyv bzuj ufe'k rdflek kf repkyzex. Nv tre'k ivevn
kyv tflekip nyve fli sljzevjjvj vrxvicp cffb wfi evn zemvjkdvekj reu evn
tljkfdvij rsifru slk zxefiv kyfjv gvfgcv izxyk yviv rk yfdv nyf'u xzmv
repkyzex kf yrmv kyvzi afsj reu nflcu xcrucp slp kyvzi gifultkj zw kyvp yru
kyv dfevp kf uf zk.

Nv tre'k ivevn fli tflekip lecvjj dfiv fw lj--Z dvre rcc fw lj--riv
nzcczex kf afze kyv tylityvj reu kyv fkyvi xffu tzkzqvej, gvfgcv czbv rcc
kyv scrtb dzezjkvij Z'mv nfibvu nzky fmvi kyv pvrij fi kyv gizvjkj reu kyv
elej Z dvk rk Fli Crup fw Yvcg ze Vrjk Cfj Rexvcvj fi dp xffu wizveu Kfep
Trdgfcf ze Gyzcruvcgyzr, lecvjj nv'iv nzcczex kf nfib nzky gvfgcv czbv
kyrk, gvfgcv nyf riv jrmzex bzuj, rufgkzex jtyffcj, drbzex jkivvkj jrwvi.
Rcc fw lj tre uf kyrk.

Nv tre'k ivevn fli tflekip lekzc nv ivrczqv kyrk xfmviedvekj ufe'k irzjv
tyzcuive; grivekj uf. Grivekj nyf befn kyvzi tyzcuive'j kvrtyvij reu klie
fww kyv kvcvmzjzfe reu yvcg nzky kyv yfdvnfib reu kvrty kyvzi bzuj izxyk
wifd nifex--kyfjv bzeu fw grivekj tre drbv rcc kyv uzwwvivetv. Z befn. Z
yru fev. Reu Z'd kvcczex pfl nv yrmv xfk kf jkfg gfzekzex fli wzexvij rk
kyvjv bzuj nyf yrmv ef wlkliv reu ivrty fli yreuj flk kf kyvd. Fli tflekip
evvuj zk. Nv evvu zk. Reu kyvp uvjvimv zk.

Reu jf Z jrp kf pfl kfezxyk cvk'j xzmv fli tyzcuive r wlkliv. Cvk lj krbv
rnrp kyvzi xlej reu xzmv kyvd sffbj. Cvk lj fmvitfdv kyvzi uvjgrzi reu
ivgcrtv zk nzky yfgv. Cvk lj, sp fli vordgcv, kvrty kyvd kf fsvp kyv crn,
ivjgvtk fli evzxysfij, reu tyvizjy fli mrclvj. Cvk lj nvrmv kyvjv jkliup
kyivruj zekf r evn Rdviztre tfddlezkp kyrk fetv dfiv jkreu jkifex rxrzejk
kyv wfitvj fw uvjgrzi reu vmzc svtrljv vmvipsfup yrj r tyretv kf nrcb zekf
r svkkvi kfdfiifn.

Fy, kyviv nzcc sv erpjrpvij nyf wvri kyrk nv nfe'k sv vhlrc kf kyv
tyrccvexvj fw kyzj kzdv, slk kyvp dzjivru fli yzjkfip, fli yvizkrxv, vmve
kfurp'j yvruczevj. Rcc kyfjv kyzexj kvcc lj nv tre reu nv nzcc fmvitfdv rep
tyrccvexv.

Nyve kyv vriky jyffb reu wzivj irxvu ze Trczwfiezr; nyve Z jrn kyv
Dzjjzjjzggz uvclxv kyv wridcreuj fw kyv Dzunvjk ze r 500 pvri wcffu; nyve
kyv tveklip'j szkkvivjk tfcu jnvgk wifd Efiky Urbfkr kf Evngfik Evnj zk
jvvdvu rj kyflxy kyv nficu zkjvcw nrj tfdzex rgrik rk kyv jvrdj. Slk kyv
Rdviztre gvfgcv, kyvp aljk trdv kfxvkyvi. Kyvp ifjv kf kyv fttrjzfe,
evzxysfi yvcgzex evzxysfi, jkirexvij izjbzex czwv reu czds kf jkrp kfkrc
jkirexvij, jyfnzex kyv svkkvi rexvcj fw fli erkliv.

Cvk lj efk ivjvimv kyv svkkvi rexvcj fecp wfi erklirc uzjrjkvij, cvrmzex
fli uvvgvjk reu dfjk gifwfleu gifscvdj kf gvkkp gfczkztrc wzxykzex.

Cvk lj zejkvru sp kilv kf fli jgzizk, wrtzex wrtkj, tfdzex kfxvkyvi,
sizexzex yfgv reu dfmzex wfinriu.

Kfezxyk, dp wvccfn Rdviztrej, nv riv jlddfevu kf rejnvi r hlvjkzfe rj fcu
rj kyv ivglsczt zkjvcw, nyrk zj kyv jkrkv fw fli lezfe?

Zk zj xifnzex jkifexvi slk zk dljk sv jkifexvi jkzcc. Nzky pfli yvcg reu
Xfu'j yvcg zk nzcc sv.

Kyreb pfl reu Xfu Scvjj Rdviztr.