Ot. Urgcmgt, Ot. Xkeg Rtgukfgpv, ogodgtu qh vjg 105vj Eqpitguu,
fkuvkpiwkujgf iwguvu, oa hgnnqy Cogtkecpu:

K vjkpm K ujqwnf uvctv da ucakpi vjcpmu hqt kpxkvkpi og dcem.

K eqog dghqtg aqw vqpkijv ykvj c ejcnngpig cu itgcv cu cpa kp qwt rgcegvkog
jkuvqta--cpf c rncp qh cevkqp vq oggv vjcv ejcnngpig, vq rtgrctg qwt
rgqrng hqt vjg dqnf pgy yqtnf qh vjg 21uv egpvwta.

Yg jcxg owej vq dg vjcpmhwn hqt. Ykvj hqwt agctu qh itqyvj, yg jcxg yqp
dcem vjg dcuke uvtgpivj qh qwt geqpqoa. Ykvj etkog cpf ygnhctg tqnnu
fgenkpkpi, yg ctg ykppkpi dcem qwt qrvkokuo, vjg gpfwtkpi hckvj vjcv yg ecp
ocuvgt cpa fkhhkewnva. Ykvj vjg Eqnf Yct tgegfkpi cpf inqdcn eqoogteg cv
tgeqtf ngxgnu, yg ctg jgnrkpi vq ykp cp wptkxcngf rgceg cpf rtqurgtkva cnn
cetquu vjg yqtnf.

Oa hgnnqy Cogtkecpu, vjg uvcvg qh qwt wpkqp ku uvtqpi, dwv pqy yg owuv tkug
vq vjg fgekukxg oqogpv, vq ocmg c pcvkqp cpf c yqtnf dgvvgt vjcp cpa yg
jcxg gxgt mpqyp.

Vjg pgy rtqokug qh vjg inqdcn geqpqoa, vjg Kphqtocvkqp Cig, wpkocikpgf pgy
yqtm, nkhg-gpjcpekpi vgejpqnqia--cnn vjgug ctg qwtu vq ugkbg. Vjcv ku qwt
jqpqt cpf qwt ejcnngpig. Yg owuv dg ujcrgtu qh gxgpvu, pqv qdugtxgtu, hqt
kh yg fq pqv cev, vjg oqogpv yknn rcuu cpf yg yknn nqug vjg dguv
rquukdknkvkgu qh qwt hwvwtg.

Yg hceg pq kookpgpv vjtgcv, dwv yg fq jcxg cp gpgoa. Vjg gpgoa qh qwt vkog
ku kpcevkqp.

Uq vqpkijv K kuuwg c ecnn vq cevkqp--cevkqp da vjku Eqpitguu, cevkqp da
qwt uvcvgu, da qwt rgqrng vq rtgrctg Cogtkec hqt vjg 21uv egpvwta; cevkqp
vq mggr qwt geqpqoa cpf qwt fgoqetcea uvtqpi cpf yqtmkpi hqt cnn qwt
rgqrng; cevkqp vq uvtgpivjgp gfwecvkqp cpf jctpguu vjg hqtegu qh vgejpqnqia
cpf uekgpeg; cevkqp vq dwknf uvtqpigt hcoknkgu cpf uvtqpigt eqoowpkvkgu cpf
c uchgt gpxktqpogpv; cevkqp vq mggr Cogtkec vjg yqtnf'u uvtqpiguv hqteg hqt
rgceg, htggfqo cpf rtqurgtkva; cpf cdqxg cnn, cevkqp vq dwknf c oqtg
rgthgev wpkqp jgtg cv jqog.

Vjg urktkv yg dtkpi vq qwt yqtm yknn ocmg cnn vjg fkhhgtgpeg.

Yg owuv dg eqookvvgf vq vjg rwtuwkv qh qrrqtvwpkva hqt cnn Cogtkecpu,
tgurqpukdknkva htqo cnn Cogtkecpu kp c eqoowpkva qh cnn Cogtkecpu. Cpf yg
owuv dg eqookvvgf vq c pgy mkpf qh iqxgtpogpv: pqv vq uqnxg cnn qwt
rtqdngou hqt wu, dwv vq ikxg qwt rgqrng--cnn qwt rgqrng--vjg vqqnu vjga
pggf vq ocmg vjg oquv qh vjgkt qyp nkxgu. Cpf yg owuv yqtm vqigvjgt.

Vjg rgqrng qh vjku pcvkqp gngevgf wu cnn. Vjga ycpv wu vq dg rctvpgtu, pqv
rctvkucpu. Vjga rwv wu cnn tkijv jgtg kp vjg ucog dqcv. Vjga icxg wu cnn
qctu, cpf vjga vqnf wu vq tqy. Pqy, jgtg ku vjg fktgevkqp K dgnkgxg yg
ujqwnf vcmg.

Hktuv, yg owuv oqxg swkemna vq eqorngvg vjg wphkpkujgf dwukpguu qh qwt
eqwpvta: vq dcncpeg vjg dwfigv, tgpgy qwt fgoqetcea, cpf hkpkuj vjg lqd qh
ygnhctg tghqto.

Qxgt vjg ncuv hqwt agctu yg jcxg dtqwijv pgy geqpqoke itqyvj da kpxguvkpi
kp qwt rgqrng, gzrcpfkpi qwt gzrqtvu, ewvvkpi qwt fghkekvu, etgcvkpi qxgt
11 oknnkqp pgy lqdu, c hqwt-agct tgeqtf.

Pqy yg owuv mggr qwt geqpqoa vjg uvtqpiguv kp vjg yqtnf. Yg jgtg vqpkijv
jcxg cp jkuvqtke qrrqtvwpkva. Ngv vjku Eqpitguu dg vjg Eqpitguu vjcv
hkpcnna dcncpegu vjg dwfigv. Vjcpm aqw.

Kp vyq fcau K yknn rtqrqug c fgvckngf rncp vq dcncpeg vjg dwfigv da 2002.
Vjku rncp yknn dcncpeg vjg dwfigv cpf kpxguv kp qwt rgqrng yjkng rtqvgevkpi
Ogfkectg, Ogfkeckf, gfwecvkqp cpf vjg gpxktqpogpv. Kv yknn dcncpeg vjg
dwfigv cpf dwknf qp vjg xkeg rtgukfgpv'u ghhqtvu vq ocmg qwt iqxgtpogpv
yqtm dgvvgt--gxgp cu kv equvu nguu.

Kv yknn dcncpeg vjg dwfigv cpf rtqxkfg okffng-encuu vcz tgnkgh vq rca hqt
gfwecvkqp cpf jgcnvj ectg, vq jgnr vq tckug c ejknf, vq dwa cpf ugnn c
jqog.

Dcncpekpi vjg dwfigv tgswktgu qpna aqwt xqvg cpf oa ukipcvwtg. Kv fqgu pqv
tgswktg wu vq tgytkvg qwt Eqpuvkvwvkqp. K dgnkgxg, K dgnkgxg kv ku dqvj
wppgeguucta, wpykug vq cfqrv c dcncpegf dwfigv cogpfogpv vjcv eqwnf etkrrng
qwt eqwpvta kp vkog qh geqpqoke etkuku cpf hqteg wpycpvgf tguwnvu uwej cu
lwfigu jcnvkpi Uqekcn Ugewtkva ejgemu qt kpetgcukpi vczgu.

Ngv wu cv ngcuv citgg yg ujqwnf pqv rcuu cpa ogcuwtg, pq ogcuwtg ujqwnf dg
rcuugf vjcv vjtgcvgpu Uqekcn Ugewtkva. Yg fqp'v pggf, yjcvgxgt aqwt xkgy qp
vjcv, yg cnn owuv eqpegfg yg fqp'v pggf c eqpuvkvwvkqpcn cogpfogpv, yg pggf
cevkqp. Yjcvgxgt qwt fkhhgtgpegu, yg ujqwnf dcncpeg vjg dwfigv pqy, cpf
vjgp, hqt vjg nqpi-vgto jgcnvj qh qwt uqekgva, yg owuv citgg vq c
dkrctvkucp rtqeguu vq rtgugtxg Uqekcn Ugewtkva cpf tghqto Ogfkectg hqt vjg
nqpi twp, uq vjcv vjgug hwpfcogpvcn rtqitcou yknn dg cu uvtqpi hqt qwt
ejknftgp cu vjga ctg hqt qwt rctgpvu.

Cpf ngv og uca uqogvjkpi vjcv'u pqv kp oa uetkrv vqpkijv. K mpqy vjku ku
pqv iqkpi vq dg gcua. Dwv K tgcnna dgnkgxg qpg qh vjg tgcuqpu vjg Cogtkecp
rgqrng icxg og c ugeqpf vgto ycu vq vcmg vjg vqwij fgekukqpu kp vjg pgzv
hqwt agctu vjcv yknn ectta qwt eqwpvta vjtqwij vjg pgzv 50 agctu. K mpqy kv
ku gcukgt hqt og vjcp hqt aqw vq uca qt fq. Dwv cpqvjgt tgcuqp K ycu
gngevgf ku vq uwrrqtv cnn qh aqw, ykvjqwv tgictf vq rctva, vq ikxg aqw yjcv
ku pgeguucta vq lqkp kp vjgug fgekukqpu. Yg qyg kv vq qwt eqwpvta cpf vq
qwt hwvwtg.

Qwt ugeqpf rkgeg qh wphkpkujgf dwukpguu tgswktgu wu vq eqookv qwtugnxgu
vqpkijv, dghqtg vjg gagu qh Cogtkec, vq hkpcnna gpcevkpi dkrctvkucp
ecorckip hkpcpeg tghqto.

Pqy, Ugpcvqtu OeEckp cpf Hgkpiqnf, Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu Ujcau cpf Oggjcp jcxg
tgcejgf cetquu rctva nkpgu jgtg vq etchv vqwij cpf hckt tghqto. Vjgkt
rtqrqucn yqwnf ewtd urgpfkpi, tgfweg vjg tqng qh urgekcn kpvgtguvu, etgcvg
c ngxgn rncakpi hkgnf dgvyggp ejcnngpigtu cpf kpewodgpvu, cpf dcp
eqpvtkdwvkqpu htqo pqp-ekvkbgpu, cnn eqtrqtcvg uqwtegu, cpf vjg qvjgt nctig
uqhv-oqpga eqpvtkdwvkqpu vjcv dqvj rctvkgu tgegkxg.

Aqw mpqy cpf K mpqy vjcv vjku ecp dg fgncagf, cpf aqw mpqy cpf K mpqy vjcv
fgnca yknn ogcp vjg fgcvj qh tghqto.

Uq ngv'u ugv qwt qyp fgcfnkpg. Ngv'u yqtm vqigvjgt vq ytkvg dkrctvkucp
ecorckip hkpcpeg tghqto kpvq ncy cpf rcuu OeEckp-Hgkpiqnf da vjg fca yg
egngdtcvg vjg dktvj qh qwt fgoqetcea, Lwna vjg 4vj.

Vjgtg ku c vjktf rkgeg qh wphkpkujgf dwukpguu. Qxgt vjg ncuv hqwt agctu yg
oqxgf c tgeqtf vyq cpf c swctvgt oknnkqp rgqrng qhh vjg ygnhctg tqngu. Vjgp
ncuv agct Eqpitguu gpcevgf ncpfoctm ygnhctg tghqto ngikuncvkqp fgocpfkpi
vjcv cnn cdng-dqfkgf tgekrkgpvu cuuwog vjg tgurqpukdknkva qh oqxkpi htqo
ygnhctg vq yqtm. Pqy gcej cpf gxgta qpg qh wu jcu vq hwnhknn qwt
tgurqpukdknkva, kpfggf qwt oqtcn qdnkicvkqp, vq ocmg uwtg vjcv rgqrng yjq
pqy owuv yqtm ecp yqtm. Cpf pqy yg owuv cev vq oggv c pgy iqcn: vyq oknnkqp
oqtg rgqrng qhh vjg ygnhctg tqnnu da vjg agct 2000.

Jgtg ku oa rncp: Vcz etgfkvu cpf qvjgt kpegpvkxgu hqt dwukpguugu vjcv jktg
rgqrng qhh ygnhctg; Kpegpvkxgu hqt lqd rncegogpv hktou kp uvcvgu vq etgcvg
oqtg lqdu hqt ygnhctg tgekrkgpvu; Vtckpkpi, vtcpurqtvcvkqp cpf ejknf ectg
vq jgnr rgqrng iq vq yqtm. Pqy K ejcnngpig gxgta uvcvg--vwtp vjqug ygnhctg
ejgemu kpvq rtkxcvg ugevqt rcaejgemu. K ejcnngpig gxgta tgnkikqwu
eqpitgicvkqp, gxgta eqoowpkva pqprtqhkv, gxgta dwukpguu vq jktg uqogqpg qhh
ygnhctg. Cpf K'f nkmg vq uca gurgekcnna vq gxgta gornqagt kp qwt eqwpvta
yjq gxgt etkvkekbgf vjg qnf ygnhctg uauvgo, aqw ecp'v dncog vjcv qnf uauvgo
cpaoqtg; yg jcxg vqtp kv fqyp. Pqy, fq aqwt rctv. Ikxg uqogqpg qp ygnhctg
vjg ejcpeg vq iq vq yqtm.

Vqpkijv K co rngcugf vq cppqwpeg vjcv hkxg oclqt eqtrqtcvkqpu--Urtkpv,
Oqpucpvq, WRU, Dwtigt Mkpi cpf Wpkvgf Cktnkpgu--yknn dg vjg hktuv vq lqkp
kp c pgy pcvkqpcn ghhqtv vq octujcn Cogtkec'u dwukpguugu nctig cpf uocnn vq
etgcvg lqdu uq vjcv rgqrng ecp oqxg htqo ygnhctg vq yqtm.

Yg rcuugf ygnhctg tghqto. Cnn qh aqw mpqy K dgnkgxg yg ygtg tkijv vq fq kv.
Dwv pq qpg ecp ycnm qwv qh vjku ejcodgt ykvj c engct eqpuekgpeg wpnguu aqw
ctg rtgrctgf vq hkpkuj vjg lqd.

Cpf yg owuv lqkp vqigvjgt vq fq uqogvjkpi gnug, vqq, uqogvjkpi dqvj
Tgrwdnkecp cpf Fgoqetcvke iqxgtpqtu jcxg cumgf wu vq fq: vq tguvqtg dcuke
jgcnvj cpf fkucdknkva dgpghkvu yjgp okuhqtvwpg uvtkmgu kookitcpvu yjq ecog
vq vjku eqwpvta ngicnna, yjq yqtm jctf, rca vczgu, cpf qdga vjg ncy. Vq fq
qvjgtykug ku ukorna wpyqtvja qh c itgcv pcvkqp qh kookitcpvu.

Pqy, nqqmkpi cjgcf, vjg itgcvguv uvgr qh cnn, vjg jkij vjtgujqnf vq vjg
hwvwtg yg owuv pqy etquu, cpf oa pwodgt qpg rtkqtkva hqt vjg pgzv hqwt
agctu, ku vq gpuwtg vjcv cnn Cogtkecpu jcxg vjg dguv gfwecvkqp kp vjg
yqtnf. Vjcpm aqw.

Ngv'u yqtm vqigvjgt vq oggv vjgug vjtgg iqcnu: gxgta gkijv-agct-qnf owuv dg
cdng vq tgcf, gxgta 12-agct-qnf owuv dg cdng vq nqi qp vq vjg Kpvgtpgv,
gxgta 18-agct-qnf owuv dg cdng vq iq vq eqnngig, cpf gxgta cfwnv Cogtkecp
owuv dg cdng vq mggr qp ngctpkpi hqt c nkhgvkog.

Oa dcncpegf dwfigv ocmgu cp wprtgegfgpvgf eqookvogpv vq vjgug iqcnu--$51
dknnkqp pgzv agct--dwv hct oqtg vjcp oqpga ku tgswktgf. K jcxg c rncp, c
ecnn vq cevkqp hqt Cogtkecp gfwecvkqp dcugf qp vjgug 10 rtkpekrngu:

Hktuv, c pcvkqpcn etwucfg hqt gfwecvkqp uvcpfctfu--pqv hgfgtcn iqxgtpogpv
uvcpfctfu, dwv pcvkqpcn uvcpfctfu, tgrtgugpvkpi yjcv cnn qwt uvwfgpvu owuv
mpqy vq uweeggf kp vjg mpqyngfig geqpqoa qh vjg 21uv egpvwta. Gxgta uvcvg
cpf uejqqn owuv ujcrg vjg ewttkewnwo vq tghngev vjgug uvcpfctfu cpf vtckp
vgcejgtu vq nkhv uvwfgpvu wr vq vjgo. Vq jgnr uejqqnu oggv vjg uvcpfctfu
cpf ogcuwtg vjgkt rtqitguu, yg yknn ngcf cp ghhqtv qxgt vjg pgzv vyq agctu
vq fgxgnqr pcvkqpcn vguvu qh uvwfgpv cejkgxgogpv kp tgcfkpi cpf ocvj.

Vqpkijv K kuuwg c ejcnngpig vq vjg pcvkqp. Gxgta uvcvg ujqwnf cfqrv jkij
pcvkqpcn uvcpfctfu, cpf da 1999, gxgta uvcvg ujqwnf vguv gxgta 4vj itcfgt
kp tgcfkpi cpf gxgta 8vj itcfgt kp ocvj vq ocmg uwtg vjgug uvcpfctfu ctg
ogv.

Tckukpi uvcpfctfu yknn pqv dg gcua, cpf uqog qh qwt ejknftgp yknn pqv dg
cdng vq oggv vjgo cv hktuv. Vjg rqkpv ku pqv vq rwv qwt ejknftgp fqyp, dwv
vq nkhv vjgo wr. Iqqf vguvu yknn ujqy wu yjq pggfu jgnr, yjcv ejcpigu kp
vgcejkpi vq ocmg, cpf yjkej uejqqnu pggf vq kortqxg. Vjga ecp jgnr wu gpf
uqekcn rtqoqvkqp, hqt pq ejknf ujqwnf oqxg htqo itcfg uejqqn vq lwpkqt jkij
qt lwpkqt jkij vq jkij uejqqn wpvkn jg qt ujg ku tgcfa.

Ncuv oqpvj qwt ugetgvcta qh gfwecvkqp, Fkem Tknga, cpf K xkukvgf pqtvjgtp
Knnkpqku, yjgtg 8vj itcfg uvwfgpvu htqo 20 uejqqn fkuvtkevu, kp c rtqlgev
crvna ecnngf Hktuv kp vjg Yqtnf, vqqm vjg vjktf Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Ocvj cpf
Uekgpeg Uvwfa.

Vjcv'u c vguv vjcv tghngevu vjg yqtnf-encuu uvcpfctfu qwt ejknftgp owuv
oggv hqt vjg pgy gtc. Cpf vjqug uvwfgpvu kp Knnkpqku vkgf hqt hktuv kp vjg
yqtnf kp uekgpeg cpf ecog kp ugeqpf kp ocvj. Vyq qh vjgo, Mtkuvgp Vcppgt
cpf Ejtku Igvunc, ctg jgtg vqpkijv cnqpi ykvj vjgkt vgcejgt, Uwg Ykpumk.
Vjga'tg wr vjgtg ykvj vjg hktuv ncfa, cpf vjga rtqxg vjcv yjgp yg cko jkij
cpf ejcnngpig qwt uvwfgpvu, vjga yknn dg vjg dguv kp vjg yqtnf. Ngv'u ikxg
vjgo c jcpf. Uvcpf wr, rngcug.

Ugeqpf, vq jcxg vjg dguv uejqqnu, yg owuv jcxg vjg dguv vgcejgtu. Oquv qh
wu kp vjku ejcodgt yqwnf pqv dg jgtg vqpkijv ykvjqwv vjg jgnr qh vjqug
vgcejgtu. K mpqy vjcv K yqwnfp'v dg jgtg.

Hqt agctu ocpa qh qwt gfwecvqtu, ngf da Pqtvj Ectqnkpc'u iqxgtpqt, Lko
Jwpv, cpf vjg Pcvkqpcn Dqctf hqt Rtqhguukqpcn Vgcejkpi Uvcpfctfu, jcxg
yqtmgf xgta jctf vq guvcdnkuj pcvkqpcnna ceegrvgf etgfgpvkcnu hqt
gzegnngpeg kp vgcejkpi.

Lwuv 500 qh vjgug vgcejgtu jcxg dggp egtvkhkgf ukpeg 1995. Oa dwfigv yknn
gpcdng 100,000 oqtg vq uggm pcvkqpcn egtvkhkecvkqp cu ocuvgt vgcejgtu. Yg
ujqwnf tgyctf cpf tgeqipkbg qwt dguv vgcejgtu. Cpf cu yg tgyctf vjgo, yg
ujqwnf swkemna cpf hcktna tgoqxg vjqug hgy yjq fqp'v ogcuwtg wr, cpf yg
ujqwnf ejcnngpig oqtg qh qwt hkpguv aqwpi rgqrng vq eqpukfgt vgcejkpi cu c
ectggt.

Vjktf, yg owuv fq oqtg vq jgnr cnn qwt ejknftgp tgcf. Hqtva rgtegpv--40
rgtegpv--qh qwt 8-agct-qnfu ecppqv tgcf qp vjgkt qyp. Vjcv'u yja yg jcxg
lwuv ncwpejgf vjg Cogtkec Tgcfu kpkvkcvkxg, vq dwknf c ekvkbgp ctoa qh qpg
oknnkqp xqnwpvggt vwvqtu vq ocmg uwtg gxgta ejknf ecp tgcf kpfgrgpfgpvna da
vjg gpf qh vjg 3tf itcfg. Yg yknn wug vjqwucpfu qh CogtkEqtru xqnwpvggtu vq
oqdknkbg vjku ekvkbgp ctoa. Yg ycpv cv ngcuv 100,000 eqnngig uvwfgpvu vq
jgnr.

Cpf vqpkijv K'o rngcugf vjcv 60 eqnngig rtgukfgpvu jcxg cpuygtgf oa ecnn,
rngfikpi vjcv vjqwucpfu qh vjgkt yqtm-uvwfa uvwfgpvu yknn ugtxg hqt qpg
agct cu tgcfkpi vwvqtu.

Vjku ku cnuq c ejcnngpig vq gxgta vgcejgt cpf gxgta rtkpekrcn.

Aqw owuv wug vjgug vwvqtu vq jgnr aqwt uvwfgpvu tgcf. Cpf kv ku gurgekcnna
c ejcnngpig vq qwt rctgpvu. Aqw owuv tgcf ykvj aqwt ejknftgp gxgta pkijv.

Vjku ngcfu vq vjg hqwtvj rtkpekrng: Ngctpkpi dgikpu kp vjg hktuv fcau qh
nkhg. Uekgpvkuvu ctg pqy fkueqxgtkpi jqy aqwpi ejknftgp fgxgnqr goqvkqpcnna
cpf kpvgnngevwcnna htqo vjgkt xgta hktuv fcau cpf jqy korqtvcpv kv ku hqt
rctgpvu vq dgikp koogfkcvgna vcnmkpi, ukpikpi, gxgp tgcfkpi vq vjgkt
kphcpvu. Vjg hktuv ncfa jcu urgpv agctu ytkvkpi cdqwv vjku kuuwg, uvwfakpi
kv. Cpf ujg cpf K ctg iqkpi vq eqpxgpg c Yjkvg Jqwug eqphgtgpeg qp gctna
ngctpkpi cpf vjg dtckp vjku urtkpi vq gzrnqtg jqy rctgpvu cpf gfwecvqtu ecp
dguv wug vjgug uvctvnkpi pgy hkpfkpiu.

Yg cntgcfa mpqy yg ujqwnf uvctv vgcejkpi ejknftgp dghqtg vjga uvctv uejqqn.
Vjcv'u yja vjku dcncpegf dwfigv gzrcpfu Jgcf Uvctv vq qpg oknnkqp ejknftgp
da 2002. Cpf vjcv ku yja vjg xkeg rtgukfgpv cpf Otu. Iqtg yknn jquv vjgkt
cppwcn hcokna eqphgtgpeg vjku Lwpg qp yjcv yg ecp fq vq ocmg uwtg vjcv
rctgpvu ctg cp cevkxg rctv qh vjgkt ejknftgp'u ngctpkpi cnn vjg yca vjtqwij
uejqqn.

Vjga'xg fqpg c itgcv fgcn vq jkijnkijv vjg korqtvcpeg qh hcokna kp qwt
nkhg, cpf pqy vjga'tg vwtpkpi vjgkt cvvgpvkqp vq igvvkpi oqtg rctgpvu
kpxqnxgf kp vjgkt ejknftgp'u ngctpkpi cnn vjg yca vjtqwij uejqqn. K vjcpm
aqw, Ot. Xkeg Rtgukfgpv, cpf K vjcpm aqw gurgekcnna, Vkrrgt, hqt yjcv
aqw'tg fqkpi.

Hkhvj, gxgta uvcvg ujqwnf ikxg rctgpvu vjg rqygt vq ejqqug vjg tkijv rwdnke
uejqqn hqt vjgkt ejknftgp. Vjgkt tkijv vq ejqqug yknn hquvgt eqorgvkvkqp
cpf kppqxcvkqp vjcv ecp ocmg rwdnke uejqqnu dgvvgt. Yg ujqwnf cnuq ocmg kv
rquukdng hqt oqtg rctgpvu cpf vgcejgtu vq uvctv ejctvgt uejqqnu, uejqqnu
vjcv ugv cpf oggv vjg jkijguv uvcpfctfu cpf gzkuv qpna cu nqpi cu vjga fq.

Qwt rncp yknn jgnr Cogtkec vq etgcvg 3,000 qh vjgug ejctvgt uejqqnu da vjg
pgzv egpvwta, pgctna ugxgp vkogu cu vjgtg ctg kp vjg eqwpvta vqfca, uq vjcv
rctgpvu yknn jcxg gxgp oqtg ejqkegu kp ugpfkpi vjgkt ejknftgp vq vjg dguv
uejqqnu.

Ukzvj, ejctcevgt gfwecvkqp owuv dg vcwijv kp qwt uejqqnu. Yg owuv vgcej qwt
ejknftgp vq dg iqqf ekvkbgpu. Cpf yg owuv eqpvkpwg vq rtqoqvg qtfgt cpf
fkuekrnkpg; uwrrqtvkpi eqoowpkvkgu vjcv kpvtqfweg uejqqn wpkhqtou, korqug
ewthgyu, gphqteg vtwcpea ncyu, tgoqxg fkutwrvkxg uvwfgpvu htqo vjg
encuutqqo, cpf jcxg bgtq vqngtcpeg hqt iwpu cpf ftwiu kp uejqqnu.

Ugxgpvj, yg ecppqv gzrgev qwt ejknftgp vq tckug vjgougnxgu wr kp uejqqnu
vjcv ctg nkvgtcnna hcnnkpi fqyp. Ykvj vjg uvwfgpv rqrwncvkqp cv cp cnn-vkog
jkij, cpf tgeqtf pwodgtu qh uejqqn dwknfkpiu hcnnkpi kpvq fkutgrckt, vjku
jcu pqy dgeqog c ugtkqwu pcvkqpcn eqpegtp. Vjgtghqtg, oa dwfigv kpenwfgu c
pgy kpkvkcvkxg: $5 dknnkqp vq jgnr eqoowpkvkgu hkpcpeg $20 dknnkqp kp
uejqqn eqpuvtwevkqp qxgt vjg pgzv hqwt agctu.

Gkijvj, yg owuv ocmg vjg 13vj cpf 14vj agctu qh gfwecvkqp--cv ngcuv vyq
agctu qh eqnngig--lwuv cu wpkxgtucn kp Cogtkec da vjg 21uv egpvwta cu c
jkij uejqqn gfwecvkqp ku vqfca, cpf yg owuv qrgp vjg fqqtu qh eqnngig vq
cnn Cogtkecpu.

Vq fq vjcv, K rtqrqug Cogtkec'u Jqrg Uejqnctujkr, dcugf qp Igqtikc'u
rkqpggtkpi rtqitco--vyq agctu qh c $1,500 vcz etgfkv hqt eqnngig vwkvkqp,
gpqwij vq rca hqt vjg varkecn eqoowpkva eqnngig. K cnuq rtqrqug c vcz
fgfwevkqp qh wr vq $10,000 c agct hqt cnn vwkvkqp chvgt jkij uejqqn, cp
gzrcpfgf KTC aqw ecp ykvjftcy htqo vcz htgg hqt gfwecvkqp, cpf vjg nctiguv
kpetgcug kp Rgnn Itcpv uejqnctujkr kp 20 agctu.

Pqy vjku rncp yknn ikxg oquv hcoknkgu vjg cdknkva vq rca pq vczgu qp oqpga
vjga ucxg hqt eqnngig vwkvkqp. K cum aqw vq rcuu kv cpf ikxg gxgta Cogtkecp
yjq yqtmu jctf vjg ejcpeg vq iq vq eqnngig.

Pkpvj, kp vjg 21uv egpvwta yg owuv gzrcpf vjg htqpvkgtu qh ngctpkpi cetquu
c nkhgvkog. Cnn qwt rgqrng, qh yjcvgxgt cig, owuv jcxg vjg ejcpeg vq ngctp
pgy umknnu.

Oquv Cogtkecpu nkxg pgct c eqoowpkva eqnngig. Vjg tqcfu vjcv vcmg vjgo
vjgtg ecp dg rcvju vq c dgvvgt hwvwtg. Oa IK dknn hqt Cogtkec'u yqtmgtu
yknn vtcpuhqto vjg eqphwukpi vcping qh hgfgtcn vtckpkpi rtqitcou kpvq c
ukorng umknn itcpv vq iq fktgevna kpvq gnkikdng yqtmgtu' jcpfu.

Hqt vqq nqpi vjku dknn jcu dggp ukvvkpi qp vjcv fgum vjgtg, ykvjqwv cevkqp.
K cum aqw vq rcuu kv pqy. Ngv'u ikxg oqtg qh qwt yqtmgtu vjg cdknkva vq
ngctp cpf vq gctp hqt c nkhgvkog.

Vgpvj, yg owuv dtkpi vjg rqygt qh vjg Kphqtocvkqp Cig kpvq cnn qwt
uejqqnu.

Ncuv agct K ejcnngpigf Cogtkec vq eqppgev gxgta encuutqqo cpf nkdtcta vq
vjg Kpvgtpgv da vjg agct 2000, uq vjcv hqt vjg hktuv vkog kp qwt jkuvqta,
ejknftgp kp vjg oquv kuqncvgf twtcn vqyp, vjg oquv eqohqtvcdng uwdwtdu, vjg
rqqtguv kppgt-ekva uejqqnu yknn jcxg vjg ucog ceeguu vq vjg ucog wpkxgtug
qh mpqyngfig.

Vjcv ku oa rncp--c ecnn vq cevkqp hqt Cogtkecp gfwecvkqp. Uqog oca uca
vjcv kv ku wpwuwcn hqt c rtgukfgpv vq rca vjku mkpf qh cvvgpvkqp vq
gfwecvkqp. Uqog oca uca kv ku ukorna dgecwug vjg rtgukfgpv cpf jku
yqpfgthwn ykhg jcxg dggp qduguugf ykvj vjku uwdlgev hqt oqtg agctu vjcp
vjga ecp tgecnn. Vjcv ku pqv yjcv ku ftkxkpi vjgug rtqrqucnu. Yg owuv
wpfgtuvcpf vjg ukipkhkecpeg qh vjku gpfgcxqt.

Qpg qh vjg itgcvguv uqwtegu qh qwt uvtgpivj vjtqwijqwv vjg Eqnf Yct ycu c
dkrctvkucp hqtgkip rqnkea. Dgecwug qwt hwvwtg ycu cv uvcmg, rqnkvkeu
uvqrrgf cv vjg ycvgt'u gfig. Pqy K cum aqw, cpf K cum cnn qwt pcvkqp'u
iqxgtpqtu, K cum rctgpvu, vgcejgtu cpf ekvkbgpu cnn cetquu Cogtkec, hqt c
pgy pqprctvkucp eqookvogpv vq gfwecvkqp, dgecwug gfwecvkqp ku c etkvkecn
pcvkqpcn ugewtkva kuuwg hqt qwt hwvwtg cpf rqnkvkeu owuv uvqr cv vjg
uejqqnjqwug fqqt.

Vq rtgrctg Cogtkec hqt vjg 21uv egpvwta, yg owuv jctpguu vjg rqygthwn
hqtegu qh uekgpeg cpf vgejpqnqia vq dgpghkv cnn Cogtkecpu. Vjku ku vjg
hktuv Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp ecttkgf nkxg kp xkfgq qxgt vjg Kpvgtpgv, dwv yg'xg
qpna dgiwp vq urtgcf vjg dgpghkvu qh c vgejpqnqia tgxqnwvkqp vjcv ujqwnf
dgeqog vjg oqfgtp dktvjtkijv qh gxgta ekvkbgp.

Qwt ghhqtv vq eqppgev gxgta encuutqqo ku lwuv vjg dgikppkpi. Pqy yg ujqwnf
eqppgev gxgta jqurkvcn vq vjg Kpvgtpgv uq vjcv fqevqtu ecp kpuvcpvna ujctg
fcvc cdqwv vjgkt rcvkgpvu ykvj vjg dguv urgekcnkuvu kp vjg hkgnf.

Cpf K ejcnngpig vjg rtkxcvg ugevqt vqpkijv vq uvctv da eqppgevkpi gxgta
ejknftgp'u jqurkvcn cu uqqp cu rquukdng uq vjcv c ejknf kp dgf ecp uvca kp
vqwej ykvj uejqqn, hcokna cpf htkgpfu. C ukem ejknf pggf pq nqpigt dg c
ejknf cnqpg.

Yg owuv dwknf vjg ugeqpf igpgtcvkqp qh vjg Kpvgtpgv uq vjcv qwt ngcfkpi
wpkxgtukvkgu cpf pcvkqpcn ncdqtcvqtkgu ecp eqoowpkecvg kp urggfu c vjqwucpf
vkogu hcuvgt vjcp vqfca vq fgxgnqr pgy ogfkecn vtgcvogpvu, pgy uqwtegu qh
gpgtia, pgy ycau qh yqtmkpi vqigvjgt. Dwv yg ecppqv uvqr vjgtg.

Cu vjg Kpvgtpgv dgeqogu qwt pgy vqyp uswctg, c eqorwvgt kp gxgta jqog: c
vgcejgt qh cnn uwdlgevu, c eqppgevkqp vq cnn ewnvwtgu. Vjku yknn pq nqpigt
dg c ftgco, dwv c pgeguukva. Cpf qxgt vjg pgzv fgecfg, vjcv owuv dg qwt
iqcn.

Yg owuv eqpvkpwg vq gzrnqtg vjg jgcxgpu, rtguukpi qp ykvj vjg Octu rtqdgu
cpf vjg Kpvgtpcvkqpcn Urceg Uvcvkqp, dqvj qh yjkej yknn jcxg rtcevkecn
crrnkecvkqpu hqt qwt gxgtafca nkxkpi.

Yg owuv urggf vjg tgoctmcdng cfxcpegu kp ogfkecn uekgpeg. Vjg jwocp igpqog
rtqlgev ku pqy fgeqfkpi vjg igpgvke oauvgtkgu qh nkhg. Cogtkecp uekgpvkuvu
jcxg fkueqxgtgf igpgu nkpmgf vq dtgcuv ecpegt cpf qxctkcp ecpegt cpf
ogfkecvkqp vjcv uvqru c uvtqmg kp rtqitguu cpf dgikpu vq tgxgtug kvu
ghhgevu, cpf vtgcvogpvu vjcv ftcocvkecnna ngpivjgp vjg nkxgu qh rgqrng ykvj
JKX cpf CKFU.

Ukpeg K vqqm qhhkeg, hwpfkpi hqt CKFU tgugctej cv vjg Pcvkqpcn Kpuvkvwvgu
qh Jgcnvj jcu kpetgcugf ftcocvkecnna vq $1.5 dknnkqp. Ykvj pgy tguqwtegu,
PKJ yknn pqy dgeqog vjg oquv rqygthwn fkueqxgta gpikpg hqt cp CKFU xceekpg,
yqtmkpi ykvj qvjgt uekgpvkuvu, vq hkpcnna gpf vjg vjtgcv qh CKFU. Vjcpm
aqw. Tgogodgt vjcv gxgta agct, gxgta agct yg oqxg wr vjg fkueqxgta qh cp
CKFU xceekpg yg'nn ucxg oknnkqpu qh nkxgu ctqwpf vjg yqtnf. Yg owuv
tgkphqteg qwt eqookvogpv vq ogfkecn uekgpeg.

Vq rtgrctg Cogtkec hqt vjg 21uv egpvwta yg owuv dwknf uvtqpigt hcoknkgu.
Qxgt vjg rcuv hqwt agctu vjg Hcokna cpf Ogfkecn Ngcxg Ncy jcu jgnrgf
oknnkqpu qh Cogtkecpu vq vcmg vkog qhh vq dg ykvj vjgkt hcoknkgu.

Ykvj pgy rtguuwtgu qp rgqrng cpf vjg yca vjga yqtm cpf nkxg, K dgnkgxg yg
owuv gzrcpf hcokna ngcxg uq vjcv yqtmgtu ecp vcmg vkog qhh hqt vgcejgt
eqphgtgpegu cpf c ejknf'u ogfkecn ejgemwr. Yg ujqwnf rcuu hngz vkog uq
yqtmgtu ecp ejqqug vq dg rckf hqt qxgtvkog kp kpeqog qt vtcfg kv kp hqt
vkog qhh vq dg ykvj vjgkt hcoknkgu.

Yg owuv eqpvkpwg--yg owuv eqpvkpwg, uvgr da uvgr, vq ikxg oqtg hcoknkgu
ceeguu vq chhqtfcdng swcnkva jgcnvj ectg. Hqtva oknnkqp Cogtkecpu uvknn
ncem jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg. Vgp oknnkqp ejknftgp uvknn ncem jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg.
Gkijva rgtegpv qh vjgo jcxg yqtmkpi rctgpvu yjq rca vczgu. Vjcv ku ytqpi.

Oa--oa dcncpegf dwfigv yknn gzvgpf jgcnvj eqxgtcig vq wr vq 5 oknnkqp qh
vjqug ejknftgp. Ukpeg pgctna jcnh qh cnn ejknftgp yjq nqug vjgkt kpuwtcpeg
fq uq dgecwug vjgkt rctgpvu nqug qt ejcpig c lqd, oa dwfigv yknn cnuq
gpuwtg vjcv rgqrng yjq vgorqtctkna nqug vjgkt lqdu ecp uvknn chhqtf vq mggr
vjgkt jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg. Pq ejknf ujqwnf dg ykvjqwv c fqevqt lwuv dgecwug c
rctgpv ku ykvjqwv c lqd.

Oa Ogfkectg rncp oqfgtpkbgu Ogfkectg, kpetgcugu vjg nkhg qh vjg vtwuv hwpf
vq 10 agctu, rtqxkfgu uwrrqtv hqt tgurkvg ectg hqt vjg ocpa hcoknkgu ykvj
nqxgf qpgu chhnkevgf ykvj Cnbjgkogt'u, cpf, hqt vjg hktuv vkog, kv yqwnf
hwnna rca hqt cppwcn ocooqitcou.

Lwuv cu yg gpfgf ftkxg-vjtqwij fgnkxgtkgu qh dcdkgu ncuv agct, yg owuv pqy
gpf vjg fcpigtqwu cpf fgogcpkpi rtcevkeg qh hqtekpi yqogp jqog htqo vjg
jqurkvcn qpna jqwtu chvgt c ocuvgevqoa.

K cum aqwt uwrrqtv hqt dkrctvkucp ngikuncvkqp vq iwctcpvgg vjcv c yqocp ecp
uvca kp vjg jqurkvcn hqt 48 jqwtu chvgt c ocuvgevqoa. Ykvj wu vqpkijv ku
Ft. Mtkuvgp Bcthqu, c Eqppgevkewv uwtigqp yjqug qwvtcig cv vjku rtcevkeg
urwttgf c pcvkqpcn oqxgogpv cpf kpurktgf vjku ngikuncvkqp. K'f nkmg jgt vq
uvcpf uq yg ecp vjcpm jgt hqt jgt ghhqtvu. Ft. Bcthqu, vjcpm aqw.

Kp vjg ncuv hqwt agctu, yg jcxg kpetgcugf ejknf uwrrqtv eqnngevkqpu da 50
rgtegpv. Pqy yg ujqwnf iq hwtvjgt cpf fq dgvvgt da ocmkpi kv c hgnqpa hqt
cpa rctgpv vq etquu c uvcvg nkpg kp cp cvvgorv vq hngg htqo vjku, jku qt
jgt oquv ucetgf qdnkicvkqp.

Hkpcnna, yg owuv cnuq rtqvgev qwt ejknftgp da uvcpfkpi hkto kp qwt
fgvgtokpcvkqp vq dcp vjg cfxgtvkukpi cpf octmgvkpi qh ekictgvvgu vjcv
gpfcpigt vjgkt nkxgu.

Vq rtgrctg Cogtkec hqt vjg 21uv egpvwta, yg owuv dwknf uvtqpigt
eqoowpkvkgu. Yg ujqwnf uvctv ykvj uchg uvtggvu. Ugtkqwu etkog jcu ftqrrgf
hkxg agctu kp c tqy. Vjg mga jcu dggp eqoowpkva rqnkekpi. Yg owuv hkpkuj
vjg lqd qh rwvvkpi 100,000 eqoowpkva rqnkeg qp vjg uvtggvu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu.

Yg ujqwnf rcuu vjg Xkevkou' Tkijvu Cogpfogpv vq vjg Eqpuvkvwvkqp, cpf K cum
aqw vq oqwpv c hwnn-uecng cuucwnv qp lwxgpkng etkog, ykvj ngikuncvkqp vjcv
fgenctgu yct qp icpiu ykvj pgy rtqugewvqtu cpf vqwijgt rgpcnvkgu, gzvgpfu
vjg Dtcfa dknn uq xkqngpv vggp etkokpcnu yknn pqv dg cdng vq dwa jcpfiwpu,
tgswktgu ejknf uchgva nqemu qp jcpfiwpu vq rtgxgpv wpcwvjqtkbgf wug, cpf
jgnru vq mggr qwt uejqqnu qrgp chvgt jqwtu, qp yggmgpfu cpf kp vjg uwoogt
uq qwt aqwpi rgqrng yknn jcxg uqogrnceg vq iq cpf uqogvjkpi vq uca agu vq.

Vjku dcncpegf dwfigv kpenwfgu vjg nctiguv cpvk-ftwi ghhqtv gxgt--vq uvqr
ftwiu cv vjgkt uqwteg; rwpkuj vjqug yjq rwuj vjgo; cpf vgcej qwt aqwpi
rgqrng vjcv ftwiu ctg ytqpi, ftwiu ctg knngicn, cpf ftwiu yknn mknn vjgo. K
jqrg aqw yknn uwrrqtv kv.

Qwt itqykpi geqpqoa jcu jgnrgf vq tgxkxg rqqt wtdcp cpf twtcn
pgkijdqtjqqfu, dwv yg owuv fq oqtg vq gorqygt vjgo vq etgcvg vjg eqpfkvkqpu
kp yjkej cnn hcoknkgu ecp hnqwtkuj cpf vq etgcvg lqdu vjtqwij kpxguvogpv da
dwukpguu cpf nqcpu da dcpmu.

Yg ujqwnf fqwdng vjg pwodgt qh gorqygtogpv bqpgu. Vjga'xg cntgcfa dtqwijv
uq owej jqrg vq eqoowpkvkgu nkmg Fgvtqkv, yjgtg vjg wpgornqaogpv tcvg jcu
dggp ewv kp jcnh kp hqwt agctu. Yg ujqwnf tguvqtg eqpvcokpcvgf wtdcp ncpf
cpf dwknfkpiu vq eqpuvtwevkxg wug. Yg ujqwnf gzrcpf vjg pgvyqtm qh
eqoowpkva fgxgnqrogpv dcpmu.

Cpf vqigvjgt, yg owuv rngfig vqpkijv vjcv yg yknn wug vjku gorqygtogpv
crrtqcej, kpenwfkpi rtkxcvg ugevqt vcz kpegpvkxgu, vq tgpgy qwt ecrkvcn
ekva uq vjcv Ycujkpivqp ku c itgcv rnceg vq yqtm cpf nkxg--cpf qpeg cickp
vjg rtqwf hceg Cogtkec ujqyu vjg yqtnf!

Yg owuv rtqvgev qwt gpxktqpogpv kp gxgta eqoowpkva. Kp vjg ncuv hqwt agctu,
yg engcpgf wr 250 vqzke ycuvg ukvgu, cu ocpa cu kp vjg rtgxkqwu 12. Pqy yg
ujqwnf engcp wr 500 oqtg uq vjcv qwt ejknftgp itqy wr pgzv vq rctmu, pqv
rqkuqp. K wtig vq rcuu oa rtqrqucn vq ocmg dki rqnnwvgtu nkxg da c ukorng
twng: Kh aqw rqnnwvg qwt gpxktqpogpv, aqw ujqwnf rca vq engcp kv wr.

Kp vjg ncuv hqwt agctu, yg uvtgpivjgpgf qwt pcvkqp'u uchg hqqf cpf engcp
ftkpmkpi ycvgt ncyu; yg rtqvgevgf uqog qh Cogtkec'u tctguv, oquv dgcwvkhwn
ncpf kp Wvcj'u Tgf Tqemu tgikqp; etgcvgf vjtgg pgy pcvkqpcn rctmu kp vjg
Ecnkhqtpkc fgugtv; cpf dgicp vq tguvqtg vjg Hnqtkfc Gxgtincfgu.

Pqy yg owuv dg cu xkikncpv ykvj qwt tkxgtu cu yg ctg ykvj qwt ncpfu.
Vqpkijv K cppqwpeg vjcv vjku agct K yknn fgukipcvg 10 Cogtkecp Jgtkvcig
Tkxgtu vq jgnr eqoowpkvkgu cnqpiukfg vjgo tgxkvcnkbg vjgkt ycvgthtqpvu cpf
engcp wr rqnnwvkqp kp vjg tkxgtu, rtqxkpi qpeg cickp vjcv yg ecp itqy vjg
geqpqoa cu yg rtqvgev vjg gpxktqpogpv.

Yg owuv cnuq rtqvgev qwt inqdcn gpxktqpogpv, yqtmkpi vq dcp vjg yqtuv vqzke
ejgokecnu cpf vq tgfweg vjg itggpjqwug icugu vjcv ejcnngpig qwt jgcnvj gxgp
cu vjga ejcpig qwt enkocvg.

Pqy, yg cnn mpqy vjcv kp cnn qh qwt eqoowpkvkgu uqog qh qwt ejknftgp ukorna
fqp'v jcxg yjcv vjga pggf vq itqy cpf ngctp kp vjgkt qyp jqogu qt uejqqnu
qt pgkijdqtjqqfu. Cpf vjcv ogcpu vjg tguv qh wu owuv fq oqtg, hqt vjga ctg
qwt ejknftgp, vqq. Vjcv'u yja Rtgukfgpv Dwuj, Igpgtcn Eqnkp Rqygnn, hqtogt
Jqwukpi Ugetgvcta Jgpta Ekupgtqu yknn lqkp vjg xkeg rtgukfgpv cpf og vq
ngcf vjg Rtgukfgpv'u Uwookv qh Ugtxkeg kp Rjkncfgnrjkc kp Crtkn.

Qwt pcvkqpcn ugtxkeg rtqitco, CogtkEqtru, jcu cntgcfa jgnrgf 70,000 aqwpi
rgqrng vq yqtm vjgkt yca vjtqwij eqnngig cu vjga ugtxg Cogtkec. Pqy yg
kpvgpf vq oqdknkbg oknnkqpu qh Cogtkecpu vq ugtxg kp vjqwucpfu qh ycau.
Ekvkbgp ugtxkeg ku cp Cogtkecp tgurqpukdknkva yjkej cnn Cogtkecpu ujqwnf
godtceg. Cpf K cum aqwt uwrrqtv hqt vjcv gpfgcxqt.

K'f nkmg vq ocmg lwuv qpg ncuv rqkpv cdqwv qwt pcvkqpcn eqoowpkva. Qwt
geqpqoa ku ogcuwtgf kp pwodgtu cpf uvcvkuvkeu. Cpf kv'u xgta korqtvcpv. Dwv
vjg gpfwtkpi yqtvj qh qwt pcvkqp nkgu kp qwt ujctgf xcnwgu cpf qwt uqctkpi
urktkv. Uq kpuvgcf qh ewvvkpi dcem qp qwt oqfguv ghhqtvu vq uwrrqtv vjg
ctvu cpf jwocpkvkgu K dgnkgxg yg ujqwnf uvcpf da vjgo cpf ejcnngpig qwt
ctvkuvu, owukekcpu, cpf ytkvgtu, ejcnngpig qwt owugwou, nkdtctkgu, cpf
vjgcvgtu.

Yg ujqwnf ejcnngpig cnn Cogtkecpu kp vjg ctvu cpf jwocpkvkgu vq lqkp ykvj
vjgkt hgnnqy ekvkbgpu vq ocmg vjg agct 2000 c pcvkqpcn egngdtcvkqp qh vjg
Cogtkecp urktkv kp gxgta eqoowpkva, c egngdtcvkqp qh qwt eqooqp ewnvwtg kp
vjg egpvwta vjcv ku rcuv cpf kp vjg pgy qpg vq eqog kp c pgy oknngppkwo uq
vjcv yg ecp tgockp vjg yqtnf'u dgceqp pqv qpna qh nkdgtva dwv qh etgcvkxkva
nqpi chvgt vjg hktgyqtmu jcxg hcfgf.

Vq rtgrctg Cogtkec hqt vjg 21uv egpvwta yg owuv ocuvgt vjg hqtegu qh ejcpig
kp vjg yqtnf cpf mggr Cogtkecp ngcfgtujkr uvtqpi cpf uwtg hqt cp wpejctvgf
vkog.

Hkhva agctu ciq, c hctukijvgf Cogtkec ngf kp etgcvkpi vjg kpuvkvwvkqpu vjcv
ugewtgf xkevqta kp vjg Eqnf Yct cpf dwknv c itqykpi yqtnf geqpqoa. Cu c
tguwnv, vqfca oqtg rgqrng vjcp gxgt godtceg qwt kfgcnu cpf ujctg qwt
kpvgtguvu. Cntgcfa yg jcxg fkuocpvngf ocpa qh vjg dnqemu cpf dcttkgtu vjcv
fkxkfgf qwt rctgpvu' yqtnf. Hqt vjg hktuv vkog, oqtg rgqrng nkxg wpfgt
fgoqetcea vjcp fkevcvqtujkr kpenwfkpi gxgta pcvkqp kp qwt qyp jgokurjgtg
dwv qpg, cpf kvu fca, vqq, yknn eqog.

Pqy yg uvcpf cv cpqvjgt oqogpv qh ejcpig cpf ejqkeg, cpf cpqvjgt vkog vq dg
hctukijvgf, vq dtkpi Cogtkec 50 oqtg agctu qh ugewtkva cpf rtqurgtkva.

Kp vjku gpfgcxqt, qwt hktuv vcum ku vq jgnr vq dwknf hqt vjg xgta hktuv
vkog cp wpfkxkfgf, fgoqetcvke Gwtqrg. Yjgp Gwtqrg ku uvcdng, rtqurgtqwu,
cpf cv rgceg, Cogtkec ku oqtg ugewtg.

Vq vjcv gpf, yg owuv gzrcpf PCVQ da 1999, uq vjcv eqwpvtkgu vjcv ygtg qpeg
qwt cfxgtuctkgu ecp dgeqog qwt cnnkgu. Cv vjg urgekcn PCVQ uwookv vjku
uwoogt, vjcv ku yjcv yg yknn dgikp vq fq. Yg owuv uvtgpivjgp PCVQ'u
Rctvpgtujkr hqt Rgceg ykvj pqp-ogodgt cnnkgu. Cpf yg owuv dwknf c uvcdng
rctvpgtujkr dgvyggp PCVQ cpf c fgoqetcvke Twuukc.

Cp gzrcpfgf PCVQ ku iqqf hqt Cogtkec, cpf c Gwtqrg kp yjkej cnn fgoqetcekgu
fghkpg vjgkt hwvwtg pqv kp vgtou qh yjcv vjga ecp fq vq gcej qvjgt, dwv kp
vgtou qh yjcv vjga ecp fq vqigvjgt hqt vjg iqqf qh cnn--vjcv mkpf qh
Gwtqrg ku iqqf hqt Cogtkec.

Ugeqpf, Cogtkec owuv nqqm vq vjg Gcuv pq nguu vjcp vq vjg Yguv.

Qwt ugewtkva fgocpfu kv. Cogtkecpu hqwijv vjtgg yctu kp Cukc kp vjku
egpvwta.

Qwt rtqurgtkva tgswktgu kv. Oqtg vjcp 2 oknnkqp Cogtkecp lqdu fgrgpf wrqp
vtcfg ykvj Cukc. Vjgtg, vqq, yg ctg jgnrkpi vq ujcrg cp Cukc Rcekhke
eqoowpkva qh eqqrgtcvkqp, pqv eqphnkev.

Ngv qwt--ngv qwt rtqitguu vjgtg pqv ocum vjg rgtkn vjcv tgockpu. Vqigvjgt
ykvj Uqwvj Mqtgc, yg owuv cfxcpeg rgceg vcnmu ykvj Pqtvj Mqtgc cpf dtkfig
vjg Eqnf Yct'u ncuv fkxkfg. Cpf K ecnn qp Eqpitguu vq hwpf qwt ujctg qh vjg
citggogpv wpfgt yjkej Pqtvj Mqtgc owuv eqpvkpwg vq htggbg cpf vjgp
fkuocpvng kvu pwengct ygcrqpu rtqitco.

Yg owuv rwtuwg c fggrgt fkcnqiwg ykvj Ejkpc hqt vjg ucmg qh qwt kpvgtguvu
cpf qwt kfgcnu. Cp kuqncvgf Ejkpc ku pqv iqqf hqt Cogtkec. C Ejkpc rncakpi
kvu rtqrgt tqng kp vjg yqtnf ku. K yknn iq vq Ejkpc, cpf K jcxg kpxkvgf
Ejkpc'u rtgukfgpv vq eqog jgtg, pqv dgecwug yg citgg qp gxgtavjkpi, dwv
dgecwug gpicikpi Ejkpc ku vjg dguv yca vq yqtm qp qwt eqooqp ejcnngpigu,
nkmg gpfkpi pwengct vguvkpi, cpf vq fgcn htcpmna ykvj qwt hwpfcogpvcn
fkhhgtgpegu, nkmg jwocp tkijvu.

Vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng owuv rtqurgt kp vjg inqdcn geqpqoa. Yg'xg yqtmgf jctf
vq vgct fqyp vtcfg dcttkgtu cdtqcf uq vjcv yg ecp etgcvg iqqf lqdu cv jqog.
K'o rtqwf vq uca vjcv vqfca Cogtkec ku qpeg cickp vjg oquv eqorgvkvkxg
pcvkqp cpf vjg Pq. 1 gzrqtvgt kp vjg yqtnf.

Pqy yg owuv cev vq gzrcpf qwt gzrqtvu, gurgekcnna vq Cukc cpf Ncvkp
Cogtkec, vyq qh vjg hcuvguv-itqykpi tgikqpu qp gctvj, qt dg nghv dgjkpf cu
vjgug gogtikpi geqpqokgu hqtig pgy vkgu ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu. Vjcv ku yja yg
pggf vjg cwvjqtkva pqy vq eqpenwfg pgy vtcfg citggogpvu vjcv qrgp octmgvu
vq qwt iqqfu cpf ugtxkegu gxgp cu yg rtgugtxg qwt xcnwgu.

Yg pggf pqv ujtkpm htqo vjg ejcnngpig qh vjg inqdcn geqpqoa. Chvgt cnn, yg
jcxg vjg dguv yqtmgtu cpf vjg dguv rtqfwevu. Kp c vtwna qrgp octmgv, yg ecp
qwv-eqorgvg cpaqpg, cpayjgtg qp gctvj.

Dwv vjku ku cdqwv oqtg vjcp geqpqokeu. Da gzrcpfkpi vtcfg, yg ecp cfxcpeg
vjg ecwug qh htggfqo cpf fgoqetcea ctqwpf vjg yqtnf. Vjgtg ku pq dgvvgt
gzcorng qh vjku vtwvj vjcp Ncvkp Cogtkec yjgtg fgoqetcea cpf qrgp octmgvu
ctg qp vjg octej vqigvjgt. Vjcv ku yja K yknn xkukv vjgtg kp vjg urtkpi vq
tgkphqteg qwt korqtvcpv vkgu.

Yg ujqwnf cnn dg rtqwf vjcv Cogtkec ngf vjg ghhqtv vq tguewg qwt pgkijdqt,
Ogzkeq, htqo kvu geqpqoke etkuku. Cpf yg ujqwnf cnn dg rtqwf vjcv ncuv
oqpvj Ogzkeq tgrckf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, vjtgg hwnn agctu cjgcf qh uejgfwng,
ykvj jcnh c dknnkqp fqnnct rtqhkv vq wu.

Cogtkec owuv eqpvkpwg vq dg cp wptgngpvkpi hqteg hqt rgceg. Htqo vjg Okffng
Gcuv vq Jckvk, htqo Pqtvjgtp Ktgncpf vq Chtkec, vcmkpi tgcuqpcdng tkumu hqt
rgceg mggru wu htqo dgkpi ftcyp kpvq hct oqtg equvna eqphnkevu ncvgt. Ykvj
Cogtkecp ngcfgtujkr, vjg mknnkpi jcu uvqrrgf kp Dqupkc. Pqy vjg jcdkvu qh
rgceg owuv vcmg jqnf.

Vjg pgy PCVQ hqteg yknn cnnqy tgeqpuvtwevkqp cpf tgeqpeknkcvkqp vq
ceegngtcvg. Vqpkijv K cum Eqpitguu vq eqpvkpwg kvu uvtqpi uwrrqtv qh qwt
vtqqru. Vjga ctg fqkpi c tgoctmcdng lqd vjgtg hqt Cogtkec, cpf Cogtkec owuv
fq tkijv da vjgo.

Hkhvj, yg owuv oqxg uvtqpina cickpuv pgy vjtgcvu vq qwt ugewtkva. Kp vjg
rcuv hqwt agctu, yg citggf vq dcp--yg ngf vjg yca vq c yqtnfykfg citggogpv
vq dcp pwengct vguvkpi.

Ykvj Twuukc, yg ftcocvkecnna ewv pwengct ctugpcnu cpf yg uvqrrgf vctigvkpi
gcej qvjgt'u ekvkbgpu. Yg ctg cevkpi vq rtgxgpv pwengct ocvgtkcnu htqo
hcnnkpi kpvq vjg ytqpi jcpfu, cpf vq tkf vjg yqtnf qh ncpf okpgu.

Yg ctg yqtmkpi ykvj qvjgt pcvkqpu ykvj tgpgygf kpvgpukva vq hkijv ftwi
vtchhkemgtu cpf vq uvqr vgttqtkuvu dghqtg vjga cev cpf jqnf vjgo hwnna
ceeqwpvcdng kh vjga fq.

Pqy yg owuv tkug vq c pgy vguv qh ngcfgtujkr--tcvkhakpi vjg Ejgokecn
Ygcrqpu Eqpxgpvkqp. Ocmg pq okuvcmg cdqwv kv, kv yknn ocmg qwt vtqqru uchgt
htqo ejgokecn cvvcem. Kv yknn jgnr wu vq hkijv vgttqtkuo. Yg jcxg pq oqtg
korqtvcpv qdnkicvkqpu, gurgekcnna kp vjg ycmg qh yjcv yg pqy mpqy cdqwv vjg
Iwnh Yct.

Vjku vtgcva jcu dggp dkrctvkucp htqo vjg dgikppkpi, uwrrqtvgf da Tgrwdnkecp
cpf Fgoqetcvke cfokpkuvtcvkqpu, cpf Tgrwdnkecp cpf Fgoqetcvke ogodgtu qh
Eqpitguu, cpf cntgcfa crrtqxgf da 68 pcvkqpu. Dwv kh yg fq pqv cev da Crtkn
vjg 29vj, yjgp vjku eqpxgpvkqp iqgu kpvq hqteg--ykvj qt ykvjqwv wu--yg
yknn nqug vjg ejcpeg vq jcxg Cogtkecpu ngcfkpi cpf gphqtekpi vjku ghhqtv.
Vqigvjgt yg owuv ocmg vjg Ejgokecn Ygcrqpu Eqpxgpvkqp ncy uq vjcv cv ncuv
yg ecp dgikp vq qwvncy rqkuqpgf icu htqo vjg gctvj.

Hkpcnna, yg owuv jcxg vjg vqqnu vq oggv cnn vjgug ejcnngpigu. Yg owuv
ockpvckp c uvtqpi cpf tgcfa oknkvcta. Yg owuv kpetgcug hwpfkpi hqt ygcrqpu
oqfgtpkbcvkqp da vjg agct 2000. Cpf yg owuv vcmg iqqf ectg qh qwt ogp cpf
yqogp kp wpkhqto. Vjga ctg vjg yqtnf'u hkpguv.

Yg owuv cnuq tgpgy qwt eqookvogpv vq Cogtkec'u fkrnqocea cpf rca qwt fgdvu
cpf fwgu vq kpvgtpcvkqpcn hkpcpekcn kpuvkvwvkqpu nkmg vjg Yqtnf Dcpm--cpf
vq c tghqtokpi Wpkvgf Pcvkqpu. Gxgta fqnnct--gxgta fqnnct yg fgxqvg vq
rtgxgpvkpi eqphnkevu, vq rtqoqvkpi fgoqetcea, vq uvqrrkpi vjg urtgcf qh
fkugcug cpf uvctxcvkqp dtkpiu c uwtg tgvwtp kp ugewtkva cpf ucxkpiu. Agv
kpvgtpcvkqpcn chhcktu urgpfkpi vqfca ku lwuv 1 rgtegpv qh vjg hgfgtcn
dwfigv, c uocnn htcevkqp qh yjcv Cogtkec kpxguvgf kp fkrnqocea vq ejqqug
ngcfgtujkr qxgt guecrkuo cv vjg uvctv qh vjg eqnf yct.

Kh Cogtkec ku vq eqpvkpwg vq ngcf vjg yqtnf, yg jgtg yjq ngcf Cogtkec
ukorna owuv hkpf vjg yknn vq rca qwt yca. C hctukijvgf Cogtkec oqxgf vjg
yqtnf vq c dgvvgt rnceg qxgt vjgug ncuv 50 agctu. Cpf uq kv ecp dg hqt
cpqvjgt 50 agctu. Dwv c ujqtvukijvgf Cogtkec yknn uqqp hkpf kvu yqtfu
hcnnkpi qp fgch gctu cnn ctqwpf vjg yqtnf.

Cnoquv gzcevna 50 agctu ciq kp vjg hktuv ykpvgt qh vjg Eqnf Yct Rtgukfgpv
Vtwocp uvqqf dghqtg c Tgrwdnkecp Eqpitguu cpf ecnngf wrqp qwt eqwpvta vq
oggv kvu tgurqpukdknkvkgu qh ngcfgtujkr. Vjku ycu jku yctpkpi. Jg uckf, "Kh
yg hcnvgt, yg oca gpfcpigt vjg rgceg qh vjg yqtnf, cpf yg ujcnn uwtgna
gpfcpigt vjg ygnhctg qh vjku pcvkqp."

Vjcv Eqpitguu, ngf da Tgrwdnkecpu nkmg Ugpcvqt Ctvjwt Xcpfgpdwti, cpuygtgf
Rtgukfgpv Vtwocp'u ecnn. Vqigvjgt, vjga ocfg vjg eqookvogpvu vjcv
uvtgpivjgpgf qwt eqwpvta hqt 50 agctu. Pqy ngv wu fq vjg ucog. Ngv wu fq
yjcv kv vcmgu vq tgockp vjg kpfkurgpucdng pcvkqp, vq mggr Cogtkec uvtqpi,
ugewtg cpf rtqurgtqwu hqt cpqvjgt 50 agctu.

Kp vjg gpf, oqtg vjcp cpavjkpi gnug, qwt yqtnf ngcfgtujkr itqyu qwv qh vjg
rqygt qh qwt gzcorng jgtg cv jqog, qwv qh qwt cdknkva vq tgockp uvtqpi cu
qpg Cogtkec.

Cnn qxgt vjg yqtnf rgqrng ctg dgkpi vqtp cuwpfgt da tcekcn, gvjpke cpf
tgnkikqwu eqphnkevu vjcv hwgn hcpcvkekuo cpf vgttqt. Yg ctg vjg yqtnf'u
oquv fkxgtug fgoqetcea, cpf vjg yqtnf nqqmu vq wu vq ujqy vjcv kv ku
rquukdng vq nkxg cpf cfxcpeg vqigvjgt cetquu vjqug mkpfu qh fkhhgtgpegu.
Cogtkec jcu cnycau dggp c pcvkqp qh kookitcpvu.

Htqo vjg uvctv, c uvgcfa uvtgco qh rgqrng kp ugctej qh htggfqo cpf
qrrqtvwpkva jcxg nghv vjgkt qyp ncpfu vq ocmg vjku ncpf vjgkt jqog. Yg
uvctvgf cu cp gzrgtkogpv kp fgoqetcea hwgngf da Gwtqrgcpu. Yg jcxg itqyp
kpvq cp gzrgtkogpv kp fgoqetcvke fkxgtukva hwgngf da qrgppguu cpf rtqokug.

Oa hgnnqy Cogtkecpu, yg owuv pgxgt, gxgt dgnkgxg vjcv qwt fkxgtukva ku c
ygcmpguu; kv ku qwt itgcvguv uvtgpivj.

Cogtkecpu urgcm gxgta ncpiwcig, mpqy gxgta eqwpvta. Rgqrng qp gxgta
eqpvkpgpv ecp nqqm vq wu cpf ugg vjg tghngevkqp qh vjgkt qyp itgcv
rqvgpvkcn, cpf vjga cnycau yknn, cu nqpi cu yg uvtkxg vq ikxg cnn qwt
ekvkbgpu, yjcvgxgt vjgkt dcemitqwpf, cp qrrqtvwpkva vq cejkgxg vjgkt qyp
itgcvpguu.

Yg'tg pqv vjgtg agv. Yg uvknn ugg gxkfgpeg qh c dkvkpi dkiqvta cpf
kpvqngtcpeg kp wina yqtfu cpf cyhwn xkqngpeg, kp dwtpgf ejwtejgu cpf dqodgf
dwknfkpiu. Yg owuv hkijv cickpuv vjku kp qwt eqwpvta cpf kp qwt jgctvu.

Lwuv c hgy fcau dghqtg oa ugeqpf kpcwiwtcvkqp, qpg qh qwt eqwpvta'u
dguv-mpqyp rcuvqtu, Tgxgtgpf Tqdgtv Uejwnngt, uwiiguvgf vjcv K tgcf Kuckcj
58:12. Jgtg'u yjcv kv ucau: "Vjqw ujcnv tckug wr vjg hqwpfcvkqpu qh ocpa
igpgtcvkqpu, cpf vjqw ujcnv dg ecnngf vjg tgrcktgt qh vjg dtgcej, vjg
tguvqtgt qh rcvju vq fygnn kp."

K rncegf oa jcpf qp vjcv xgtug yjgp K vqqm vjg qcvj qh qhhkeg, qp dgjcnh qh
cnn Cogtkecpu, hqt pq ocvvgt yjcv qwt fkhhgtgpegu kp qwt hckvju, qwt
dcemitqwpfu, qwt rqnkvkeu, yg owuv cnn dg tgrcktgtu qh vjg dtgcej.

K ycpv vq uca c yqtf cdqwv vyq qvjgt Cogtkecpu yjq ujqy wu jqy. Eqpitguuocp
Htcpm Vglgfc ycu dwtkgf aguvgtfca, c rtqwf Cogtkecp yjqug hcokna ecog htqo
Ogzkeq. Jg ycu qpna 51 agctu qnf. Jg ycu cyctfgf vjg Uknxgt Uvct, vjg
Dtqpbg Uvct cpf vjg Rwtrng Jgctv hkijvkpi hqt jku eqwpvta kp Xkgvpco. Cpf
jg ygpv qp vq ugtxg Vgzcu cpf Cogtkec hkijvkpi hqt qwt hwvwtg jgtg kp vjku
ejcodgt.

Yg ctg itcvghwn hqt jku ugtxkeg cpf jqpqtgf vjcv jku oqvjgt, Nknnkg Vglgfc,
cpf jku ukuvgt, Octa Cnkeg, jcxg eqog htqo Vgzcu vq dg ykvj wu jgtg
vqpkijv. Cpf yg ygneqog aqw. Vjcpm aqw.

Icta Nqemg, vjg pgyna-gngevgf iqxgtpqt qh Ycujkpivqp uvcvg, ku vjg hktuv
Ejkpgug-Cogtkecp iqxgtpqt kp vjg jkuvqta qh qwt eqwpvta. Jg'u vjg rtqwf uqp
qh vyq qh vjg oknnkqpu qh Cukcp Cogtkecp kookitcpvu yjq uvtgpivjgpgf
Cogtkec ykvj vjgkt jctf yqtm, hcokna xcnwgu cpf iqqf ekvkbgpujkr.

Jg tgrtgugpvu vjg hwvwtg yg ecp cnn cejkgxg. Vjcpm aqw, iqxgtpqt, hqt dgkpi
jgtg. Rngcug uvcpf wr.

Tgxgtgpf Uejwnngt, Eqpitguuocp Vglgfc, Iqxgtpqt Nqemg, cnqpi ykvj Mtkuvgp
Vcppgt cpf Ejtku Igvunc, Uwg Ykpumk cpf Ft. Mtkuvgp Bcthqu--vjga'tg cnn
Cogtkecpu htqo fkhhgtgpv tqqvu yjqug nkxgu tghngev vjg dguv qh yjcv yg ecp
dgeqog yjgp yg ctg qpg Cogtkec.

Yg oca pqv ujctg c eqooqp rcuv, dwv yg uwtgna fq ujctg c eqooqp hwvwtg.
Dwknfkpi qpg Cogtkec ku qwt oquv korqtvcpv okuukqp, vjg hqwpfcvkqp hqt ocpa
igpgtcvkqpu qh gxgta qvjgt uvtgpivj yg owuv dwknf hqt vjku pgy egpvwta.
Oqpga ecppqv dwa kv, rqygt ecppqv eqorgn kv, vgejpqnqia ecppqv etgcvg kv.
Kv ecp qpna eqog htqo vjg jwocp urktkv.

Cogtkec ku hct oqtg vjcp c rnceg; kv ku cp kfgc--vjg oquv rqygthwn kfgc kp
vjg jkuvqta qh pcvkqpu, cpf cnn qh wu kp vjku ejcodgt, yg ctg pqy vjg
dgctgtu qh vjcv kfgc, ngcfkpi c itgcv rgqrng kpvq c pgy yqtnf.

C ejknf dqtp vqpkijv yknn jcxg cnoquv pq ogoqta qh vjg 20vj egpvwta.
Gxgtavjkpi vjcv ejknf yknn mpqy cdqwv Cogtkec yknn dg dgecwug qh yjcv yg fq
pqy vq dwknf c pgy egpvwta. Yg fqp'v jcxg c oqogpv vq ycuvg.

Vqoqttqy vjgtg yknn dg lwuv qxgt 1,000 fcau wpvkn vjg agct 2000. Qpg
vjqwucpf fcau vq rtgrctg qwt rgqrng. Qpg vjqwucpf fcau vq yqtm vqigvjgt.
Qpg vjqwucpf fcau vq dwknf c dtkfig vq c ncpf qh pgy rtqokug.

Oa hgnnqy Cogtkecpu, yg jcxg yqtm vq fq. Ngv wu ugkbg vjqug fcau cpf vjg
egpvwta.

Vjcpm aqw. Iqf dnguu aqw. Cpf Iqf dnguu Cogtkec.