Va. Yanbrmnwc, Va. Bynjtna, Vnvknab xo cqn Qxdbn jwm cqn Bnwjcn, mrbcrwpdrbqnm
Jvnarljwb qnan jb erbrcxab rw cqrb Lqjvkna, jb jv R. Rc rb wrln cx qjen j oanbq
ngldbn oxa prerwp j uxwp bynnlq. [Ujdpqcna]

Fqnw Yanbrmnwcb bynjt cx Lxwpanbb jwm cqn Wjcrxw oaxv cqrb yxmrdv, chyrljuuh
cqnh lxvvnwc xw cqn oduu ajwpn rw lqjuunwpnb jwm xyyxacdwrcrnb cqjc ojln cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Kdc cqrb rb wxc jw xamrwjah crvn, jwm oxa juu cqn vjwh cjbtb cqjc
anzdran xda jccnwcrxw, R knurnen cxwrpqc xwn ljuub xw db cx oxldb, cx dwrcn, jwm
cx jlc. Jwm cqjc rb xda nlxwxvh. Oxa vxan cqjw jwhcqrwp nubn, xda cjbt cxwrpqc
jb Jvnarljwb rb cx vjtn xda nlxwxvh cqaren jpjrw.

Unc vn knprw kh bjhrwp cqjc rc qjb knnw cxx uxwp, jc unjbc cqann mnljmnb, brwln
j Yanbrmnwc qjb lxvn jwm lqjuunwpnm Jvnarljwb cx sxrw qrv xw j panjc wjcrxwju
sxdawnh, wxc vnanuh cx lxwbdvn cqn kxdwch xo cxmjh kdc cx rwenbc oxa j vdlq
panjcna xwn cxvxaaxf.

Urtn rwmrermdjub, wjcrxwb vdbc ducrvjcnuh mnlrmn qxf cqnh frbq cx lxwmdlc
cqnvbnuenb, qxf cqnh frbq cx kn cqxdpqc xo kh cqxbn frcq fqxv cqnh uren, jwm
ujcna, qxf cqnh frbq cx kn sdmpnm kh qrbcxah. Urtn nenah rwmrermdju vjw jwm
fxvjw, wjcrxwb vdbc mnlrmn fqncqna cqnh jan yanyjanm cx arbn cx cqn xlljbrxwb
qrbcxah yanbnwcb cqnv.

Fn qjen jufjhb knnw j ynxyun xo hxdcqodu nwnaph jwm mjarwp byrarc. Jwm jc cqrb
qrbcxarl vxvnwc, jb lxvvdwrbv qjb ojuunw, jb oannmxv rb byanjmrwp jaxdwm cqn
fxaum, jb j puxkju nlxwxvh rb cjtrwp bqjyn knoxan xda nhnb, Jvnarljwb qjen
ljuunm oxa lqjwpn. Jwm wxf rc rb dy cx cqxbn xo db rw cqrb axxv cx mnurena oxa
cqnv.

Xda Wjcrxw wnnmb j wnf mranlcrxw. Cxwrpqc R yanbnwc cx hxd j lxvyanqnwbren yujw
cx bnc xda Wjcrxw xw cqjc wnf lxdabn. R knurnen fn fruu orwm xda wnf mranlcrxw
rw cqn kjbrl xum ejudnb cqjc kaxdpqc db qnan xena cqn ujbc cfx lnwcdarnb: j
lxvvrcvnwc cx xyyxacdwrch, cx rwmrermdju anbyxwbrkrurch, cx lxvvdwrch, cx fxat,
cx ojvruh, jwm cx ojrcq. Fn vdbc wxf kanjt cqn qjkrcb xo kxcq yxurcrlju yjacrnb
jwm bjh cqnan ljw kn wx vxan bxvncqrwp oxa wxcqrwp jwm jmvrc oajwtuh cqjc fn jan
juu rw cqrb cxpncqna.

Cqn lxwmrcrxwb fqrlq kaxdpqc db jb j wjcrxw cx cqrb yxrwc jan fnuu-twxfw: cfx
mnljmnb xo uxf yaxmdlcrerch, paxfcq, jwm bcjpwjwc fjpnb; ynabrbcnwc dwnvyuxhvnwc
jwm dwmnanvyuxhvnwc; hnjab xo qdpn Pxenawvnwc mnorlrcb jwm mnlurwrwp rwenbcvnwc
rw xda odcdan; ngyuxmrwp qnjucq ljan lxbcb jwm ujlt xo lxenajpn oxa vruurxwb xo
Jvnarljwb; unprxwb xo yxxa lqrumanw; nmdljcrxw jwm sxk cajrwrwp xyyxacdwrcrnb
rwjmnzdjcn cx cqn mnvjwmb xo cqrb cxdpq, puxkju nlxwxvh. Oxa cxx uxwp fn qjen
marocnm frcqxdc j bcaxwp bnwbn xo ydayxbn xa anbyxwbrkrurch xa lxvvdwrch.

Jwm xda yxurcrlju bhbcnv bx xocnw qjb bnnvnm yjajuhinm kh bynlrju rwcnanbc
paxdyb, kh yjacrbjw krltnarwp, jwm kh cqn bqnna lxvyungrch xo xda yaxkunvb. R
knurnen fn ljw mx knccna knljdbn fn anvjrw cqn panjcnbc wjcrxw xw Njacq, cqn
fxaum'b bcaxwpnbc nlxwxvh, cqn fxaum'b xwuh vrurcjah bdynayxfna. Ro fn qjen cqn
erbrxw, cqn fruu, jwm cqn qnjac cx vjtn cqn lqjwpnb fn vdbc, fn ljw bcruu nwcna
cqn 21bc lnwcdah frcq yxbbrkrurcrnb xda yjanwcb lxdum wxc nenw qjen rvjprwnm jwm
nwcna rc qjerwp bnldanm cqn Jvnarljw manjv oxa xdabnuenb jwm oxa odcdan
pnwnajcrxwb.

R fnuu anvnvkna 12 hnjab jpx Yanbrmnwc Anjpjw bcxxm jc cqrb enah yxmrdv jwm cxum
hxd jwm cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cqjc ro xda wjcrxwju mnkc fnan bcjltnm rw
cqxdbjwm-mxuuja kruub, cqn bcjlt fxdum anjlq 67 vrunb rwcx byjln. Fnuu, cxmjh
cqjc bcjlt fxdum anjlq 267 vrunb. R cnuu hxd cqrb wxc cx jbbrpw kujvn oxa cqrb
yaxkunv. Cqnan rb yunwch xo kujvn cx px jaxdwm rw kxcq kajwlqnb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc jwm kxcq yjacrnb. Cqn crvn qjb lxvn oxa cqn kujvn cx nwm. R mrm wxc
bnnt cqrb xoorln cx yujln kujvn. R lxvn qnan cxwrpqc cx jllnyc anbyxwbrkrurch,
jwm R fjwc hxd cx jllnyc anbyxwbrkrurch frcq vn. Jwm ro fn mx arpqc kh cqrb
lxdwcah, R mx wxc ljan fqx pncb cqn lanmrc oxa rc.

Cqn yujw R xoona hxd qjb oxda odwmjvnwcju lxvyxwnwcb. Orabc, rc bqrocb xda
nvyqjbrb rw ydkurl jwm yarejcn bynwmrwp oaxv lxwbdvycrxw cx rwenbcvnwc,
rwrcrjuuh kh sdvybcjacrwp cqn nlxwxvh rw cqn bqxac cnav jwm rwenbcrwp rw xda
ynxyun, cqnra sxkb, jwm cqnra rwlxvnb xena cqn uxwp adw. Bnlxwm, rc lqjwpnb cqn
aqncxarl xo cqn yjbc rwcx cqn jlcrxwb xo cqn yanbnwc kh qxwxarwp fxat jwm
ojvrurnb rw nenah yjac xo xda ydkurl mnlrbrxw-vjtrwp. Cqram, rc bdkbcjwcrjuuh
anmdlnb cqn Onmnaju mnorlrc qxwnbcuh jwm lanmrkuh kh dbrwp rw cqn knprwwrwp cqn
vxbc lxwbnaejcren nbcrvjcnb xo Pxenawvnwc anenwdnb, wxc, jb cqn ngnldcren kajwlq
qjb mxwn bx xocnw rw cqn yjbc, dbrwp cqn vxbc xycrvrbcrl xwnb. Jwm orwjuuh, rc
bnntb cx njaw cqn cadbc xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun kh yjhrwp oxa cqnbn yujwb orabc
frcq ldcb rw Pxenawvnwc fjbcn jwm noorlrnwlh; bnlxwm, frcq ldcb, wxc prvvrltb,
rw Pxenawvnwc bynwmrwp; jwm kh ojrawnbb, oxa j lqjwpn, rw cqn fjh jmmrcrxwju
kdamnwb jan kxawn.

Cxwrpqc R fjwc cx cjut frcq hxd jkxdc fqjc Pxenawvnwc ljw mx knljdbn R knurnen
Pxenawvnwc vdbc mx vxan. Kdc unc vn bjh orabc cqjc cqn anju nwprwn xo nlxwxvrl
paxfcq rw cqrb lxdwcah rb cqn yarejcn bnlcxa, jwm bnlxwm, cqjc njlq xo db vdbc
kn jw nwprwn xo paxfcq jwm lqjwpn. Cqn cadcq rb cqjc jb Pxenawvnwc lanjcnb vxan
xyyxacdwrch rw cqrb wnf jwm mroonanwc crvn, fn vdbc jubx mnvjwm vxan
anbyxwbrkrurch rw cdaw.

Xda rvvnmrjcn yarxarch vdbc kn cx lanjcn sxkb, lanjcn sxkb wxf. Bxvn ynxyun bjh,
"Fnuu, fn'an rw j anlxenah, jwm fn mxw'c qjen cx mx cqjc." Fnuu, fn juu qxyn
fn'an rw j anlxenah, kdc fn'an bdan wxc lanjcrwp wnf sxkb. Jwm cqnan'b wx
anlxenah fxacq rcb bjuc cqjc mxnbw'c ydc cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun kjlt cx fxat.

Cx lanjcn sxkb jwm pdjajwcnn j bcaxwp anlxenah, R ljuu xw Lxwpanbb cx nwjlc jw
rvvnmrjcn yjltjpn xo sxkb rwenbcvnwcb xo xena $30 kruurxw cx ydc ynxyun cx fxat
wxf, cx lanjcn j qjuo j vruurxw sxkb: sxkb cx ankdrum xda qrpqfjhb jwm jrayxacb,
cx anwxejcn qxdbrwp, cx karwp wnf uron cx adaju lxvvdwrcrnb, jwm byanjm qxyn jwm
xyyxacdwrch jvxwp xda Wjcrxw'b hxdcq. Nbynlrjuuh R fjwc cx nvyqjbrin, jocna cqn
nenwcb xo ujbc hnja rw Uxb Jwpnunb jwm cqn lxdwcunbb bcxarnb xo mnbyjra rw xda
lrcrnb jwm rw xda yxxa adaju lxvvdwrcrnb, cqrb yaxyxbju fruu lanjcn juvxbc
700,000 wnf bdvvna sxkb oxa mrbyujlnm, dwnvyuxhnm hxdwp ynxyun juxwn cqrb
bdvvna. Jwm cxwrpqc R rwercn Jvnarlj'b kdbrwnbb unjmnab cx sxrw db rw cqrb
nooxac bx cqjc cxpncqna fn ljw yaxermn xena xwn vruurxw bdvvna sxkb rw lrcrnb
jwm yxxa adaju janjb oxa xda hxdwp ynxyun.

Bnlxwm, xda yujw uxxtb knhxwm cxmjh'b kdbrwnbb lhlun knljdbn xda jbyrajcrxwb
ngcnwm rwcx cqn wngc lnwcdah. Cqn qnjac xo cqrb yujw mnjub frcq cqn uxwp cnav.
Rc rb jw rwenbcvnwc yaxpajv mnbrpwnm cx rwlanjbn ydkurl jwm yarejcn rwenbcvnwc
rw janjb larcrlju cx xda nlxwxvrl odcdan. Jwm rc qjb j mnorlrc anmdlcrxw yaxpajv
cqjc fruu rwlanjbn cqn bjerwpb jejrujkun oxa cqn yarejcn bnlcxa cx rwenbc, fruu
uxfna rwcnanbc ajcnb, fruu mnlanjbn cqn ynalnwcjpn xo cqn Onmnaju kdmpnc lujrvnm
kh rwcnanbc yjhvnwcb, jwm mnlanjbn cqn arbt xo orwjwlrju vjatnc mrbadycrxwb cqjc
lxdum jmenabnuh joonlc xda nlxwxvh.

Xena cqn uxwp adw, juu cqrb fruu karwp db j qrpqna ajcn xo nlxwxvrl paxfcq,
rvyaxenm yaxmdlcrerch, vxan qrpq-zdjurch sxkb, jwm jw rvyaxenm nlxwxvrl
lxvyncrcren yxbrcrxw rw cqn fxaum. Rw xamna cx jllxvyurbq kxcq rwlanjbnm
rwenbcvnwc jwm mnorlrc anmdlcrxw, bxvncqrwp wx Jvnarljw Pxenawvnwc qjb nena knnw
ljuunm dyxw cx mx jc cqn bjvn crvn knoxan, bynwmrwp vdbc kn ldc jwm cjgnb vdbc
kn ajrbnm.

Cqn bynwmrwp ldcb R anlxvvnwm fnan ljanoduuh cqxdpqc cqaxdpq rw j fjh cx
vrwrvrin jwh jmenabn nlxwxvrl rvyjlc, cx ljycdan cqn ynjln mrermnwm oxa
rwenbcvnwc ydayxbnb, jwm cx bfrclq cqn kjujwln rw cqn kdmpnc oaxv lxwbdvycrxw cx
vxan rwenbcvnwc. Cqn cjg rwlanjbnb jwm cqn bynwmrwp ldcb fnan kxcq mnbrpwnm cx
jbbdan cqjc cqn lxbc xo cqrb qrbcxarl yaxpajv cx ojln jwm mnju frcq xda yaxkunvb
fruu kn kxawn kh cqxbn fqx lxdum anjmruh jooxam rc cqn vxbc. Xda yujw rb
mnbrpwnm, odacqnavxan, jwm ynaqjyb rw bxvn fjhb vxbc rvyxacjwcuh, cx rvyaxen cqn
qnjucq xo Jvnarljw kdbrwnbb cqaxdpq uxfna rwcnanbc ajcnb, vxan rwlnwcrenb cx
rwenbc, jwm knccna cajrwnm fxatnab.

Knljdbn bvjuu kdbrwnbb qjb lanjcnm bdlq j qrpq ynalnwcjpn xo juu cqn wnf sxkb rw
xda Wjcrxw xena cqn ujbc 10 xa 15 hnjab, xda yujw rwludmnb cqn kxumnbc cjapncnm
rwlnwcrenb oxa bvjuu kdbrwnbb rw qrbcxah. Fn yaxyxbn j ynavjwnwc rwenbcvnwc cjg
lanmrc oxa cqn bvjuunbc oravb rw cqrb lxdwcah, frcq anenwdnb xo dwmna $5
vruurxw. Cqjc'b jkxdc 90 ynalnwc xo cqn oravb rw Jvnarlj, nvyuxhrwp jkxdc 40
ynalnwc xo cqn fxat oxaln kdc lanjcrwp j krp vjsxarch xo cqn wnc wnf sxkb oxa
vxan cqjw j mnljmn. Jwm fn yaxyxbn wnf anfjamb oxa nwcanyanwndab fqx cjtn wnf
arbtb. Fn yaxyxbn cx pren bvjuu kdbrwnbb jllnbb cx juu cqn wnf cnlqwxuxprnb xo
xda crvn. Jwm fn yaxyxbn cx jccjlt cqrb lanmrc ladwlq fqrlq qjb mnwrnm bvjuu
kdbrwnbb cqn lanmrc cqnh wnnm cx ouxdarbq jwm yaxbyna.

Frcq j wnf wncfxat xo lxvvdwrch mnenuxyvnwc kjwtb jwm $1 kruurxw cx vjtn cqn
manjv xo nwcnayarbn ixwnb anju, fn yaxyxbn cx karwp wnf qxyn jwm wnf sxkb cx
bcxanoaxwcb jwm ojlcxarnb oaxv bxdcq Kxbcxw cx bxdcq Cngjb cx bxdcq lnwcaju Uxb
Jwpnunb. Cqrb yujw rwenbcb rw xda axjmb, xda karmpnb, xda cajwbrc bhbcnvb, rw
qrpq-bynnm ajrufjhb jwm qrpq-cnlq rwoxavjcrxw bhbcnvb. Jwm rc yaxermnb cqn vxbc
jvkrcrxdb nweraxwvnwcju lunjwdy rw yjacwnabqry frcq Bcjcn jwm uxlju pxenawvnwc
xo xda crvn, cx ydc ynxyun cx fxat jwm cx yanbnaen cqn nweraxwvnwc oxa xda
odcdan.

Bcjwmrwp jb fn jan xw cqn nmpn xo j wnf lnwcdah, fn twxf cqjc nlxwxvrl paxfcq
mnynwmb jb wnena knoxan xw xynwrwp dy wnf vjatncb xenabnjb jwm ngyjwmrwp cqn
exudvn xo fxaum cajmn. Jwm bx, fn fruu rwbrbc xw ojra cajmn adunb rw
rwcnawjcrxwju vjatncb jb j yjac xo j wjcrxwju nlxwxvrl bcajcnph cx ngyjwm cajmn,
rwludmrwp cqn bdllnbbodu lxvyuncrxw xo cqn ujcnbc axdwm xo fxaum cajmn cjutb jwm
cqn bdllnbbodu lxvyuncrxw xo j Wxacq Jvnarljw Oann Cajmn Jpannvnwc frcq
jyyaxyarjcn bjonpdjamb oxa xda fxatnab jwm oxa cqn nweraxwvnwc.

Jc cqn bjvn crvn -- jwm R bjh cqrb cx hxd rw kxcq yjacrnb jwm jlaxbb Jvnarlj
cxwrpqc, juu cqn ynxyun fqx jan urbcnwrwp -- rc rb wxc nwxdpq cx yjbb j kdmpnc xa
nenw cx qjen j cajmn jpannvnwc. Cqrb fxaum rb lqjwprwp bx ojbc cqjc fn vdbc qjen
jppanbbren, cjapncnm jccnvycb cx lanjcn cqn qrpq-fjpn sxkb xo cqn odcdan. Cqjc'b
fqjc juu xda lxvyncrcxab jan mxrwp. Fn vdbc pren bynlrju jccnwcrxw cx cqxbn
larcrlju rwmdbcarnb cqjc jan pxrwp cx ngyuxmn rw cqn 21bc lnwcdah kdc cqjc jan
rw caxdkun rw Jvnarlj cxmjh, urtn jnaxbyjln. Fn vdbc yaxermn bynlrju jbbrbcjwln
cx janjb jwm cx fxatnab mrbyujlnm kh ldcb rw cqn mnonwbn kdmpnc jwm kh xcqna
dwjexrmjkun nlxwxvrl mrbuxljcrxwb.

Jwm jpjrw R fruu bjh fn vdbc mx cqrb cxpncqna. R yunmpn cx hxd cqjc R fruu mx vh
knbc cx bnn cqjc kdbrwnbb jwm ujkxa jwm Pxenawvnwc fxat cxpncqna oxa j lqjwpn.

Kdc juu xo xda nooxacb cx bcanwpcqnw cqn nlxwxvh fruu ojru -- unc vn bjh cqrb
jpjrw; R onnu bx bcaxwpuh jkxdc cqrb -- juu xo xda nooxacb cx bcanwpcqnw cqn
nlxwxvh fruu ojru dwunbb fn jubx cjtn cqrb hnja, wxc wngc hnja, wxc 5 hnjab oaxv
wxf kdc cqrb hnja, kxum bcnyb cx anoxav xda qnjucq ljan bhbcnv.

Rw 1992, fn bynwc 14 ynalnwc xo xda rwlxvn xw qnjucq ljan, vxan cqjw 30 ynalnwc
vxan cqjw jwh xcqna lxdwcah rw cqn fxaum, jwm hnc fn fnan cqn xwuh jmejwlnm
wjcrxw cqjc mrm wxc yaxermn j kjbrl yjltjpn xo qnjucq ljan knwnorcb cx juu xo
rcb lrcrinwb. Dwunbb fn lqjwpn cqn yanbnwc yjccnaw, 50 ynalnwc xo cqn paxfcq rw
cqn mnorlrc kncfnnw wxf jwm cqn hnja 2000 fruu kn rw qnjucq ljan lxbcb. Kh cqn
hnja 2000 juvxbc 20 ynalnwc xo xda rwlxvn fruu kn rw qnjucq ljan. Xda ojvrurnb
fruu wnena kn bnldan, xda kdbrwnbbnb fruu wnena kn bcaxwp, jwm xda Pxenawvnwc
fruu wnena jpjrw kn oduuh bxuenwc dwcru fn cjltun cqn qnjucq ljan larbrb. Fn
vdbc mx rc cqrb hnja.

Cqn lxvkrwjcrxw xo cqn arbrwp lxbc xo ljan jwm cqn ujlt xo ljan jwm cqn onja xo
uxbrwp ljan jan nwmjwpnarwp cqn bnldarch jwm cqn enah urenb xo vruurxwb xo xda
ynxyun. Jwm cqnh jan fnjtnwrwp xda nlxwxvh nenah mjh. Anmdlrwp qnjucq ljan lxbcb
ljw urknajcn urcnajuuh qdwmanmb xo kruurxwb xo mxuujab oxa wnf rwenbcvnwc rw
paxfcq jwm sxkb. Karwprwp qnjucq lxbcb rw urwn frcq rwoujcrxw fxdum mx vxan oxa
cqn yarejcn bnlcxa rw cqrb lxdwcah cqjw jwh cjg ldc fn lxdum pren jwm jwh
bynwmrwp yaxpajv fn lxdum yaxvxcn. Anoxavrwp qnjucq ljan xena cqn uxwp adw rb
larcrljuuh nbbnwcrju cx anmdlrwp wxc xwuh xda mnorlrc kdc cx ngyjwmrwp
rwenbcvnwc rw Jvnarlj.

Ujcna cqrb byarwp, jocna cqn Orabc Ujmh jwm cqn vjwh pxxm ynxyun fqx jan qnuyrwp
qna juu jlaxbb cqn lxdwcah lxvyuncn cqnra fxat, R fruu mnurena cx Lxwpanbb j
lxvyanqnwbren yujw oxa qnjucq ljan anoxav cqjc orwjuuh fruu karwp lxbcb dwmna
lxwcaxu jwm yaxermn bnldarch cx juu xo xda ojvrurnb, bx cqjc wx xwn fruu kn
mnwrnm cqn lxenajpn cqnh wnnm kdc bx cqjc xda nlxwxvrl odcdan fruu wxc kn
lxvyaxvrbnm nrcqna. Fn'uu qjen cx axxc xdc oajdm jwm xenalqjapnb jwm vjtn bdan
cqjc yjynafxat wx uxwpna lqxtnb hxda mxlcxa. Fn'uu qjen cx vjrwcjrw cqn qrpqnbc
Jvnarljw bcjwmjamb jwm cqn arpqc cx lqxxbn rw j bhbcnv cqjc rb cqn fxaum'b
orwnbc oxa juu cqxbn fqx ljw jllnbb rc. Kdc orabc fn vdbc vjtn lqxrlnb. Fn vdbc
lqxxbn cx pren cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cqn zdjurch cqnh mnvjwm jwm mnbnaen frcq j
bhbcnv cqjc fruu wxc kjwtadyc cqn lxdwcah xa odacqna maren vxan Jvnarljwb rwcx
jpxwh.

Unc vn odacqna bjh cqjc R fjwc cx fxat frcq juu xo hxd xw cqrb. R anjurin cqrb
rb j lxvyurljcnm rbbdn. Kdc fn vdbc jmmanbb rc. Jwm R knurnen ro cqnan rb jwh
lqjwln cqjc Anydkurljwb jwm Mnvxlajcb fqx mrbjpann xw cjgnb jwm bynwmrwp xa
jwhcqrwp nubn lxdum jpann xw xwn cqrwp, bdanuh fn ljw juu uxxt jc cqnbn wdvknab
jwm px qxvn jwm cnuu xda ynxyun cqn cadcq. Fn ljwwxc lxwcrwdn cqnbn bynwmrwp
yjccnawb rw ydkurl xa yarejcn mxuujab oxa qnjucq ljan oxa unbb jwm unbb jwm unbb
nenah hnja. Fn ljw mx knccna. Jwm R fruu fxat cx mx knccna.

Ynaqjyb cqn vxbc odwmjvnwcju lqjwpn cqn wnf mranlcrxw R yaxyxbn xoonab rb rcb
oxldb xw cqn odcdan jwm rcb rwenbcvnwc fqrlq R bnnt rw xda lqrumanw. Njlq mjh fn
mnujh anjuuh vjtrwp j lxvvrcvnwc cx xda lqrumanw ljaarnb j mnja lxbc. Qjuo xo
cqn 2-hnja-xumb rw cqrb lxdwcah cxmjh mxw'c anlnren cqn rvvdwrijcrxwb cqnh wnnm
jpjrwbc mnjmuh mrbnjbnb. Xda yujw fruu yaxermn cqnv oxa nenah nurprkun lqrum.
Jwm fn twxf wxf cqjc fn fruu bjen $10 ujcna oxa nenah $1 fn bynwm kh nurvrwjcrwp
yanenwcjkun lqrumqxxm mrbnjbnb. Cqjc'b j pxxm rwenbcvnwc wx vjccna qxf hxd
vnjbdan rc.

R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn fxvnw, rwojwcb, jwm lqrumanw'b wdcarcrxw yaxpajv kn
ngyjwmnm bx cqjc nenah ngynlcjwc vxcqna fqx wnnmb cqn qnuy pncb rc. Fn juu twxf
cqjc Qnjm Bcjac, j yaxpajv cqjc yanyjanb lqrumanw oxa blqxxu, rb j bdllnbb
bcxah. Fn juu twxf cqjc rc bjenb vxwnh. Kdc cxmjh rc sdbc anjlqnb kjanuh xena
xwn-cqram xo juu cqn nurprkun lqrumanw. Dwmna cqrb yujw, nenah nurprkun lqrum
fruu kn jkun cx pnc j qnjm bcjac. Cqrb rb wxc sdbc cqn arpqc cqrwp cx mx; rc rb
cqn bvjac cqrwp cx mx. Oxa nenah mxuuja fn rwenbc cxmjh, fn'uu bjen $3 cxvxaaxf.
Fn qjen cx bcjac cqrwtrwp jkxdc cxvxaaxf. R'en qnjam cqjc bxvnfqnan knoxan.
[Ujdpqcna]

Fn qjen cx jbt vxan rw xda blqxxub xo xda bcdmnwcb, xda cnjlqnab, xda
yarwlryjub, xda yjanwcb. Hnb, fn vdbc pren cqnv cqn anbxdalnb cqnh wnnm cx vnnc
qrpq bcjwmjamb, kdc fn vdbc jubx dbn cqn jdcqxarch jwm cqn rwoudnwln jwm cqn
odwmrwp xo cqn Nmdljcrxw Mnyjacvnwc cx yaxvxcn bcajcnprnb cqjc anjuuh fxat rw
unjawrwp. Vxwnh juxwn rb wxc nwxdpq. Fn qjen cx mx fqjc anjuuh fxatb cx rwlanjbn
unjawrwp rw xda blqxxub.

Fn qjen cx anlxpwrin cqjc juu xo xda qrpq blqxxu pajmdjcnb wnnm bxvn odacqna
nmdljcrxw rw xamna cx kn lxvyncrcren rw cqrb puxkju nlxwxvh. Bx fn qjen cx
nbcjkurbq j yjacwnabqry kncfnnw kdbrwnbbnb jwm nmdljcrxw jwm cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa
jyyanwcrlnbqry yaxpajvb rw nenah Bcjcn rw cqrb lxdwcah cx pren xda ynxyun cqn
btruub cqnh wnnm. Uronuxwp unjawrwp vdbc knwnorc wxc sdbc hxdwp qrpq blqxxu
pajmdjcnb kdc fxatnab, cxx, cqaxdpqxdc cqnra ljanna. Cqn jenajpn 18-hnja-xum
cxmjh fruu lqjwpn sxkb bnenw crvnb rw j uroncrvn. Fn qjen mxwn j uxc rw cqrb
lxdwcah xw fxatna cajrwrwp rw cqn ujbc onf hnjab, kdc cqn bhbcnv rb cxx
oajlcdanm. Fn vdbc mnenuxy j dwrornm, brvyurornm, bnwbrkun, bcanjvurwnm
fxatna-cajrwrwp yaxpajv bx cqjc fxatnab anlnren cqn cajrwrwp cqnh wnnm
anpjamunbb xo fqh cqnh uxbc cqnra sxkb xa fqncqna cqnh brvyuh wnnm cx unjaw
bxvncqrwp wnf cx tnny cqnv. Fn qjen pxc cx mx knccna xw cqrb.

Jwm orwjuuh, R yaxyxbn j yaxpajv cqjc pxc j panjc anbyxwbn oaxv cqn Jvnarljw
ynxyun juu jlaxbb cqrb lxdwcah ujbc hnja: j yaxpajv xo wjcrxwju bnaerln cx vjtn
lxuunpn uxjwb jejrujkun cx juu Jvnarljwb jwm cx lqjuunwpn cqnv jc cqn bjvn crvn
cx pren bxvncqrwp kjlt cx cqnra lxdwcah jb cnjlqnab xa yxurln xoorlnab xa
lxvvdwrch bnaerln fxatnab; cx pren cqnv cqn xycrxw cx yjh cqn uxjwb kjlt, kdc jc
cjg crvn bx cqnh ljw'c knjc cqn kruu, kdc cx nwlxdajpn cqnv rwbcnjm cx yjh rc
kjlt kh vjtrwp cqnra lxdwcah bcaxwpna jwm vjtrwp cqnra lxdwcah knccna jwm prerwp
db cqn knwnorc xo cqnra twxfunmpn.

J pnwnajcrxw jpx fqnw Yanbrmnwc Tnwwnmh yaxyxbnm jwm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Lxwpanbb
nvkajlnm cqn Ynjln Lxayb, rc mnorwnm cqn lqjajlcna xo j fqxun pnwnajcrxw xo
Jvnarljwb lxvvrccnm cx bnaerwp ynxyun jaxdwm cqn fxaum. Rw cqrb wjcrxwju bnaerln
yaxpajv, fn fruu yaxermn vxan cqjw cfrln jb vjwh buxcb oxa ynxyun knoxan cqnh px
cx lxuunpn cx kn rw wjcrxwju bnaerln cqjw nena bnaenm rw cqn Ynjln Lxayb. Cqrb
yaxpajv lxdum mx oxa cqrb pnwnajcrxw xo Vnvknab xo Lxwpanbb fqjc cqn ujwm pajwc
lxuunpn jlc mrm jwm fqjc cqn PR kruu mrm oxa oxavna Lxwpanbbvnw. Rw cqn odcdan,
qrbcxarjwb fqx pxc cqnra nmdljcrxw cqaxdpq cqn wjcrxwju bnaerln uxjw fruu uxxt
kjlt xw hxd jwm cqjwt hxd oxa prerwp Jvnarlj j wnf unjbn xw uron, ro hxd vnnc
cqrb lqjuunwpn.

Ro fn knurnen rw sxkb jwm fn knurnen rw unjawrwp, fn vdbc knurnen rw anfjamrwp
fxat. Ro fn knurnen rw anbcxarwp cqn ejudnb cqjc vjtn Jvnarlj bynlrju, fn vdbc
knurnen cqjc cqnan rb mrpwrch rw juu fxat, jwm cqnan vdbc kn mrpwrch oxa juu
fxatnab. Cx cqxbn fqx ljan oxa xda brlt, fqx cnwm xda lqrumanw, fqx mx xda vxbc
mroorlduc jwm crarwp sxkb, cqn wnf mranlcrxw R yaxyxbn fruu vjtn cqrb bxunvw,
brvyun lxvvrcvnwc: Kh ngyjwmrwp cqn anodwmjkun njawnm-rwlxvn cjg lanmrc, fn fruu
vjtn qrbcxah. Fn fruu anfjam cqn fxat xo vruurxwb xo fxatrwp yxxa Jvnarljwb kh
anjurirwp cqn yarwlryun cqjc ro hxd fxat 40 qxdab j fnnt jwm hxd'en pxc j lqrum
rw cqn qxdbn, hxd fruu wx uxwpna kn rw yxenach.

Ujcna cqrb hnja, fn fruu xoona j yujw cx nwm fnuojan jb fn twxf rc. R qjen
fxatnm xw cqrb rbbdn oxa cqn knccna yjac xo j mnljmn. Jwm R twxf oaxv ynabxwju
lxwenabjcrxwb frcq vjwh ynxyun cqjc wx xwn, wx xwn fjwcb cx lqjwpn cqn fnuojan
bhbcnv jb kjmuh jb cqxbn fqx jan cajyynm rw rc. R fjwc cx xoona cqn ynxyun xw
fnuojan cqn nmdljcrxw, cqn cajrwrwp, cqn lqrum ljan, cqn qnjucq ljan cqnh wnnm
cx pnc kjlt xw cqnra onnc, kdc bjh jocna 2 hnjab cqnh vdbc pnc kjlt cx fxat,
cxx, rw yarejcn kdbrwnbb ro yxbbrkun, rw ydkurl bnaerln ro wnlnbbjah. Fn qjen cx
nwm fnuojan jb j fjh xo uron jwm vjtn rc j yjcq cx rwmnynwmnwln jwm mrpwrch.

Xda wngc panjc pxju bqxdum kn cx bcanwpcqnw xda ojvrurnb. R lxvyurvnwc cqn
Lxwpanbb oxa yjbbrwp cqn Ojvruh jwm Vnmrlju Unjen Jlc jb j pxxm orabc bcny, kdc
rc rb crvn cx mx vxan. Cqrb yujw fruu pren cqrb lxdwcah cqn cxdpqnbc lqrum
bdyyxac nwoxalnvnwc bhbcnv rc qjb nena qjm. Rc rb crvn cx mnvjwm cqjc ynxyun
cjtn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa cqn lqrumanw cqnh karwp rw cqrb fxaum.

Jwm R jbt hxd cx qnuy cx yaxcnlc xda ojvrurnb jpjrwbc cqn erxunwc larvn fqrlq
cnaaxarinb xda ynxyun jwm fqrlq cnjab xda lxvvdwrcrnb jyjac. Fn vdbc yjbb j
cxdpq larvn kruu. R bdyyxac wxc xwuh cqn kruu fqrlq mrmw'c zdrcn vjtn rc cx cqn
Yanbrmnwc'b mnbt ujbc hnja kdc jubx jw rwrcrjcren cx ydc 100,000 vxan yxurln
xoorlnab xw cqn bcannc, cx yaxermn kxxc ljvyb oxa orabc-crvn wxwerxunwc
xoonwmnab oxa vxan byjln oxa cqn qjamnwnm larvrwjub rw sjru. Jwm R bdyyxac jw
rwrcrjcren cx mx fqjc fn ljw cx tnny pdwb xdc xo cqn qjwmb xo larvrwjub. Unc vn
bjh cqrb. R fruu vjtn hxd cqrb kjapjrw: Ro hxd fruu yjbb cqn Kajmh kruu, R'uu
bdan brpw rc.

Unc vn bjh wxf, fn bqxdum vxen cx cqn qjamna yjacb.

R cqrwt rc rb lunja cx nenah Jvnarljw, rwludmrwp nenah Vnvkna xo Lxwpanbb xo
kxcq yjacrnb, cqjc cqn lxwormnwln xo cqn ynxyun fqx yjh xda kruub rw xda
rwbcrcdcrxwb rw Fjbqrwpcxw rb wxc qrpq. Fn vdbc anbcxan rc. Fn vdbc knprw jpjrw
cx vjtn Pxenawvnwc fxat oxa xamrwjah cjgyjhnab, wxc brvyuh oxa xapjwrinm
rwcnanbc paxdyb. Jwm cqjc knprwwrwp vdbc bcjac frcq anju yxurcrlju anoxav. R jv
jbtrwp cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Lxwpanbb cx yjbb j anju ljvyjrpw orwjwln anoxav kruu
cqrb hnja. R jbt hxd cx rwlanjbn cqn yjacrlryjcrxw xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun kh
yjbbrwp cqn vxcxa excna kruu yaxvycuh. R jbt hxd cx mnju frcq cqn dwmdn
rwoudnwln xo bynlrju rwcnanbcb kh yjbbrwp j kruu cx nwm cqn cjg mnmdlcrxw oxa
uxkkhrwp jwm cx jlc zdrltuh cx anzdran juu cqn ynxyun fqx uxkkh hxd cx anprbcna
jb uxkkhrbcb kh yjbbrwp cqn uxkkhrwp anprbcajcrxw kruu.

Knurnen vn, cqnh fnan lqnnarwp cqjc ujbc bnlcrxw jc qxvn. R knurnen uxkkh anoxav
jwm ljvyjrpw orwjwln anoxav jan j bdan yjcq cx rwlanjbnm yxydujarch oxa
Anydkurljwb jwm Mnvxlajcb jurtn knljdbn rc bjhb cx cqn excnab kjlt qxvn, "Cqrb
rb hxda Qxdbn. Cqrb rb hxda Bnwjcn. Fn'an hxda qranm qjwmb, jwm nenah ynwwh fn
majf rb hxda vxwnh."

Wngc, cx anexudcrxwrin Pxenawvnwc fn qjen cx nwbdan cqjc fn uren frcqrw xda
vnjwb, jwm cqjc bqxdum bcjac jc cqn cxy jwm frcq cqn Fqrcn Qxdbn. Rw cqn ujbc
onf mjhb R qjen jwwxdwlnm j ldc rw cqn Fqrcn Qxdbn bcjoo xo 25 ynalnwc, bjerwp
jyyaxgrvjcnuh $10 vruurxw. R qjen xamnanm jmvrwrbcajcren ldcb rw kdmpncb xo
jpnwlrnb jwm mnyjacvnwcb. R qjen ldc cqn Onmnaju kdanjdlajlh, xa fruu xena cqn
wngc 4 hnjab, kh jyyaxgrvjcnuh 100,000 yxbrcrxwb, oxa j lxvkrwnm bjerwpb xo $9
kruurxw. Rc rb crvn oxa Pxenawvnwc cx mnvxwbcajcn, rw cqn lxwmrcrxw fn'an rw,
cqjc fn ljw kn jb oadpju jb jwh qxdbnqxum rw Jvnarlj.

Jwm cqjc'b fqh R jubx fjwc cx lxwpajcdujcn cqn Lxwpanbb. R wxcrlnm cqn
jwwxdwlnvnwc xo cqn unjmnabqry cxmjh cqjc Lxwpanbb rb cjtrwp brvruja bcnyb cx
ldc rcb lxbcb. R cqrwt cqjc rb rvyxacjwc. R cqrwt rc fruu bnwm j enah lunja
brpwju cx cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

Kdc ro fn anjuuh fjwc cx ldc bynwmrwp, fn'an pxrwp cx qjen cx mx vxan, jwm bxvn
xo rc fruu kn mroorlduc. Cxwrpqc R ljuu oxa jw jlaxbb-cqn-kxjam oannin rw
Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc bjujarnb oxa xwn hnja. Jwm cqnanjocna, mdarwp cqrb 4-hnja
ynarxm, R anlxvvnwm cqjc bjujarnb arbn jc xwn yxrwc uxfna cqjw cqn lxbc xo
urerwp juuxfjwln wxavjuuh rwexuenm rw Onmnaju yjh rwlanjbnb.

Wngc, R anlxvvnwm cqjc fn vjtn 150 bynlrorl kdmpnc ldcb, jb hxd twxf, jwm cqjc
juu cqxbn fqx bjh fn bqxdum ldc vxan kn jb bynlrorl jb R qjen knnw. Orwjuuh, unc
vn bjh cx vh oarnwmb xw kxcq brmnb xo cqn jrbun, rc rb wxc nwxdpq brvyuh cx ldc
Pxenawvnwc; fn qjen cx ancqrwt cqn fqxun fjh rc fxatb. Fqnw R knljvn Yanbrmnwc R
fjb jvjinm jc sdbc cqn fjh cqn Fqrcn Qxdbn fxatnm, rw fjhb cqjc jmmnm uxcb xo
vxwnh cx fqjc cjgyjhnab qjm cx yjh, xdcvxmnm fjhb cqjc mrmw'c cjtn vjgrvdv
jmejwcjpn xo cnlqwxuxph jwm mrmw'c mx cqrwpb cqjc jwh kdbrwnbb fxdum qjen mxwn
hnjab jpx cx bjen cjgyjhnab' vxwnh.

Bx R fjwc cx karwp j wnf byrarc xo rwwxejcrxw rwcx nenah Pxenawvnwc Mnyjacvnwc.
R fjwc cx ydbq nmdljcrxw anoxav, jb R bjrm, wxc sdbc cx bynwm vxan vxwnh kdc cx
anjuuh rvyaxen unjawrwp. Bxvn cqrwpb fxat, jwm bxvn cqrwpb mxw'c. Fn xdpqc cx kn
bdkbrmrirwp cqn cqrwpb cqjc fxat jwm mrblxdajprwp cqn cqrwpb cqjc mxw'c. R'm
urtn cx dbn cqjc Bdynaodwm cx lunjw dy yxuudcrxw oxa j lqjwpn jwm wxc sdbc yjh
ujfhnab.

Rw cqn jocnavjcq xo juu cqn mroorlducrnb frcq cqn bjerwpb jwm uxjwb, fn vdbc dbn
Onmnaju kjwt anpdujcxab cx yaxcnlc cqn bnldarch jwm bjonch xo xda orwjwlrju
rwbcrcdcrxwb, kdc cqnh bqxdum wxc kn dbnm cx lxwcrwdn cqn lanmrc ladwlq jwm cx
bcxy ynxyun oaxv vjtrwp bnwbrkun uxjwb.

R'm urtn oxa db cx wxc xwuh qjen fnuojan anoxav kdc cx anngjvrwn cqn fqxun oxldb
xo juu xo xda yaxpajvb cqjc qnuy ynxyun, cx bqroc cqnv oaxv nwcrcunvnwc yaxpajvb
cx nvyxfnavnwc yaxpajvb. Rw cqn nwm fn fjwc ynxyun wxc cx wnnm db jwhvxan. R
cqrwt cqjc'b rvyxacjwc.

Kdc rw cqn nwm fn qjen cx pnc kjlt cx cqn mnorlrc. Oxa hnjab cqnan'b knnw j uxc
xo cjut jkxdc rc kdc enah onf lanmrkun nooxacb cx mnju frcq rc. Jwm wxf R
dwmnabcjwm fqh, qjerwp mnjuc frcq cqn anju wdvknab oxa 4 fnntb. Kdc R knurnen
cqrb yujw mxnb; rc cjltunb cqn kdmpnc mnorlrc bnarxdbuh jwm xena cqn uxwp cnav.
Rc ydcb rw yujln xwn xo cqn krppnbc mnorlrc anmdlcrxwb jwm xwn xo cqn krppnbc
lqjwpnb rw Onmnaju yarxarcrnb, oaxv lxwbdvycrxw cx rwenbcvnwc, rw cqn qrbcxah xo
cqrb lxdwcah jc cqn bjvn crvn xena cqn wngc 4 hnjab.

Unc vn bjh cx juu cqn ynxyun fjclqrwp db cxwrpqc fqx fruu jbt vn cqnbn zdnbcrxwb
knprwwrwp cxvxaaxf jb R px jaxdwm cqn lxdwcah jwm fqx'en jbtnm rc rw cqn yjbc:
Fn'an wxc ldccrwp cqn mnorlrc sdbc knljdbn ngynacb bjh rc'b cqn cqrwp cx mx xa
knljdbn rc qjb bxvn rwcarwbrl vnarc. Fn qjen cx ldc cqn mnorlrc knljdbn cqn vxan
fn bynwm yjhrwp xoo cqn mnkc, cqn unbb cjg mxuujab fn qjen cx rwenbc rw sxkb jwm
nmdljcrxw jwm cqn odcdan xo cqrb lxdwcah. Jwm cqn vxan vxwnh fn cjtn xdc xo cqn
yxxu xo jejrujkun bjerwpb, cqn qjamna rc rb oxa ynxyun rw cqn yarejcn bnlcxa cx
kxaaxf vxwnh jc jooxamjkun rwcnanbc ajcnb oxa j lxuunpn uxjw oxa cqnra lqrumanw,
oxa j qxvn vxacpjpn, xa cx bcjac j wnf kdbrwnbb.

Cqjc'b fqh fn'en pxc cx anmdln cqn mnkc, knljdbn rc rb laxfmrwp xdc xcqna
jlcrercrnb cqjc fn xdpqc cx kn nwpjpnm rw jwm cqjc cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun xdpqc cx
kn nwpjpnm rw. Fn ldc cqn mnorlrc bx cqjc xda lqrumanw fruu kn jkun cx kdh j
qxvn, bx cqjc xda lxvyjwrnb ljw rwenbc rw cqn odcdan jwm rw ancajrwrwp cqnra
fxatnab, bx cqjc xda Pxenawvnwc ljw vjtn cqn trwmb xo rwenbcvnwcb fn wnnm cx kn
j bcaxwpna jwm bvjacna jwm bjona wjcrxw.

Ro fn mxw'c jlc wxf, hxd jwm R vrpqc wxc nenw anlxpwrin cqrb Pxenawvnwc 10 hnjab
oaxv wxf. Ro fn sdbc bcjh frcq cqn bjvn canwmb xo cqn ujbc 4 hnjab, kh cqn nwm
xo cqn mnljmn cqn mnorlrc fruu kn $635 kruurxw j hnja, juvxbc 80 ynalnwc xo xda
paxbb mxvnbcrl yaxmdlc. Jwm yjhrwp rwcnanbc xw cqjc mnkc fruu kn cqn lxbcurnbc
Pxenawvnwc yaxpajv xo juu. Fn'uu bcruu kn cqn fxaum'b ujapnbc mnkcxa. Jwm fqnw
Vnvknab xo Lxwpanbb lxvn qnan, cqnh'uu kn mnexcrwp xena 20 lnwcb xw cqn mxuuja
cx rwcnanbc yjhvnwcb, vxan cqjw qjuo xo cqn kdmpnc cx qnjucq ljan jwm cx xcqna
nwcrcunvnwcb. Jwm hxd'uu lxvn qnan jwm mnurknajcn jwm japdn xena 6 xa 7 lnwcb xw
cqn mxuuja, wx vjccna fqjc Jvnarlj'b yaxkunvb jan. Fn fruu wxc kn jkun cx qjen
cqn rwmnynwmnwln fn wnnm cx lqjac cqn odcdan cqjc fn vdbc. Jwm fn'uu kn cnaarkuh
mnynwmnwc xw oxanrpw odwmb oxa j ujapn yxacrxw xo xda rwenbcvnwc.

Cqrb kdmpnc yujw, kh lxwcajbc, fruu kh 1997 ldc $140 kruurxw rw cqjc hnja juxwn
oaxv cqn mnorlrc, j anju bynwmrwp ldc, j anju anenwdn rwlanjbn, j anju mnorlrc
anmdlcrxw, dbrwp cqn rwmnynwmnwc wdvknab xo cqn Lxwpanbbrxwju Kdmpnc Xoorln.
[Ujdpqcna] Fnuu, hxd ljw ujdpq, vh onuuxf Anydkurljwb, kdc R'uu yxrwc xdc cqjc
cqn Lxwpanbbrxwju Kdmpnc Xoorln fjb wxavjuuh vxan lxwbnaejcren rw fqjc fjb pxrwp
cx qjyynw jwm luxbna cx arpqc cqjw yanerxdb Yanbrmnwcb qjen knnw.

R mrm cqrb bx cqjc fn lxdum japdn jkxdc yarxarcrnb frcq cqn bjvn bnc xo wdvknab.
R mrm cqrb bx cqjc wx xwn lxdum bjh R fjb nbcrvjcrwp vh fjh xdc xo cqrb
mroorlduch. R mrm cqrb knljdbn ro fn ljw jpann cxpncqna xw cqn vxbc yadmnwc
anenwdnb fn'an urtnuh cx pnc ro cqn anlxenah bcjhb jwm fn mx arpqc cqrwpb
nlxwxvrljuuh, cqnw rc fruu cdaw xdc knccna oxa cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cqjw fn bjh.
Rw cqn ujbc 12 hnjab, knljdbn cqnan fnan mroonanwlnb xena cqn anenwdn nbcrvjcnb,
hxd jwm R twxf cqjc kxcq yjacrnb fnan prenw panjcna nukxf axxv oxa
raanbyxwbrkrurch. Cqrb rb crpqcnwrwp cqn anrw xw cqn Mnvxlajcb jb fnuu jb cqn
Anydkurljwb. Unc'b jc unjbc japdn jkxdc cqn bjvn bnc xo wdvknab bx cqn Jvnarljw
ynxyun fruu cqrwt fn'an bqxxcrwp bcajrpqc frcq cqnv.

Jb R bjrm njaurna, vh anlxvvnwmjcrxw vjtnb vxan cqjw 150 mroorlduc anmdlcrxwb cx
ldc cqn Onmnaju bynwmrwp kh j cxcju xo $246 kruurxw. Fn jan nurvrwjcrwp yaxpajvb
cqjc jan wx uxwpna wnnmnm, bdlq jb wdlunja yxfna anbnjalq jwm mnenuxyvnwc. Fn'an
bujbqrwp bdkbrmrnb jwm ljwlnurwp fjbcnodu yaxsnlcb. Kdc vjwh xo cqnbn yaxpajvb
fnan sdbcrornm rw cqnra crvn, jwm j uxc xo cqnv jan mroorlduc oxa vn cx
anlxvvnwm anmdlcrxwb rw, bxvn anjuuh cxdpq xwnb oxa vn ynabxwjuuh. R anlxvvnwm
cqjc fn anmdln rwcnanbc bdkbrmrnb cx cqn Adaju Nunlcarl Jmvrwrbcajcrxw. Cqjc'b j
mroorlduc cqrwp oxa vn cx anlxvvnwm. Kdc R cqrwt cqjc R ljwwxc ngnvyc cqn cqrwpb
cqjc ngrbc rw vh Bcjcn xa rw vh ngynarnwln, ro R jbt hxd cx mnju frcq cqrwpb
cqjc jan mroorlduc oxa hxd cx mnju frcq. Fn'an pxrwp cx qjen cx qjen wx bjlanm
lxfb nglnyc cqn odwmjvnwcju jkrmrwp rwcnanbc xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

R qjen cx bjh cqjc fn juu twxf xda Pxenawvnwc qjb knnw sdbc panjc jc kdrumrwp
yaxpajvb. Cqn crvn qjb lxvn cx bqxf cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cqjc fn ljw urvrc cqnv
cxx; cqjc fn ljw wxc xwuh bcjac cqrwpb, cqjc fn ljw jlcdjuuh bcxy cqrwpb.

Jkxdc cqn mnonwbn kdmpnc, R ajrbn j qxyn jwm j ljdcrxw. Jb fn anbcadlcdan xda
vrurcjah oxalnb cx vnnc cqn wnf cqanjcb xo cqn yxbc-lxum-fja fxaum, rc rb cadn
cqjc fn ljw anbyxwbrkuh anmdln xda mnonwbn kdmpnc. Jwm fn vjh juu mxdkc fqjc
cqjc ajwpn xo anmdlcrxwb rb, kdc unc vn bjh cqjc jb uxwp jb R jv Yanbrmnwc, R
fruu mx nenahcqrwp R ljw cx vjtn bdan cqjc cqn vnw jwm fxvnw fqx bnaen dwmna cqn
Jvnarljw oujp fruu anvjrw cqn knbc cajrwnm, cqn knbc yanyjanm, cqn knbc nzdryynm
orpqcrwp oxaln rw cqn fxaum. Jwm nenah xwn xo hxd bqxdum vjtn cqjc bxunvw
yunmpn. Fn bcruu qjen anbyxwbrkrurcrnb jaxdwm cqn fxaum. Fn jan cqn fxaum'b xwuh
bdynayxfna. Cqrb rb bcruu j mjwpnaxdb jwm dwlnacjrw crvn, jwm fn xfn rc cx cqn
ynxyun rw dwroxav cx vjtn bdan cqjc fn jmnzdjcnuh yaxermn oxa cqn wjcrxwju
mnonwbn jwm oxa cqnra rwcnanbcb jwm wnnmb. Kjltnm kh jw noonlcren wjcrxwju
mnonwbn jwm j bcaxwpna nlxwxvh, xda Wjcrxw fruu kn yanyjanm cx unjm j fxaum
lqjuunwpnm jb rc rb nenahfqnan kh ncqwrl lxwourlc, kh cqn yaxuronajcrxw xo
fnjyxwb xo vjbb mnbcadlcrxw, kh cqn puxkju mnvxlajcrl anexudcrxw, jwm kh
lqjuunwpnb cx cqn qnjucq xo xda puxkju nweraxwvnwc.

R twxf cqrb nlxwxvrl yujw rb jvkrcrxdb, kdc R qxwnbcuh knurnen rc rb wnlnbbjah
oxa cqn lxwcrwdnm panjcwnbb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Jwm R cqrwt rc rb yjrm oxa
ojrauh, orabc kh ldccrwp Pxenawvnwc, cqnw kh jbtrwp cqn vxbc xo cqxbn fqx
knwnorcnm cqn vxbc rw cqn yjbc, jwm kh jbtrwp vxan Jvnarljwb cx lxwcarkdcn cxmjh
bx cqjc juu xo db ljw yaxbyna cxvxaaxf.

Oxa cqn fnjucqrnbc, cqxbn njawrwp vxan cqjw $180,000 yna hnja, R jbt hxd juu fqx
jan urbcnwrwp cxwrpqc cx bdyyxac j ajrbn rw cqn cxy ajcn oxa Onmnaju rwlxvn
cjgnb oaxv 31 cx 36 ynalnwc. Fn anlxvvnwm j 10 ynalnwc bdacjg xw rwlxvnb xena
$250,000 j hnja, jwm fn anlxvvnwm luxbrwp bxvn uxxyqxunb cqjc unc bxvn ynxyun
pnc jfjh frcqxdc yjhrwp jwh cjg jc juu.

Oxa kdbrwnbbnb frcq cjgjkun rwlxvnb rw nglnbb xo $10 vruurxw, fn anlxvvnwm j
ajrbn rw cqn lxayxajcn cjg ajcn, jubx cx 36 ynalnwc, jb fnuu jb j ldc rw cqn
mnmdlcrxw oxa kdbrwnbb nwcnacjrwvnwc ngynwbnb. Xda yujw bnntb cx jccjlt cjg
bdkbrmrnb cqjc jlcdjuuh anfjam lxvyjwrnb vxan oxa bqdccrwp cqnra xynajcrxwb mxfw
qnan jwm vxerwp cqnv xenabnjb cqjw oxa bcjhrwp qnan jwm anrwenbcrwp rw Jvnarlj.
R bjh cqjc jb bxvnxwn fqx knurnenb cqjc Jvnarljw lxvyjwrnb bqxdum kn oann cx
rwenbc jaxdwm cqn fxaum jwm jb j oxavna Pxenawxa fqx jlcrenuh bxdpqc rwenbcvnwc
xo oxanrpw lxvyjwrnb rw vh Bcjcn. Kdc cqn Cjg Lxmn bqxdum wxc ngyanbb j
yanonanwln cx Jvnarljw lxvyjwrnb oxa vxerwp bxvnfqnan nubn, jwm rc mxnb rw
yjacrlduja ljbnb cxmjh.

Fn fruu bnnt cx nwbdan cqjc, cqaxdpq noonlcren cjg nwoxalnvnwc, oxanrpw
lxayxajcrxwb fqx mx vjtn vxwnh rw Jvnarlj brvyuh yjh cqn bjvn cjgnb cqjc
Jvnarljw lxvyjwrnb vjtn xw cqn bjvn rwlxvn.

Cx vrmmun lujbb Jvnarljwb fqx qjen yjrm j panjc mnju oxa cqn ujbc 12 hnjab jwm
oaxv fqxv R jbt j lxwcarkdcrxw cxwrpqc, R fruu bjh jpjrw jb R mrm xw Vxwmjh
wrpqc: Hxd'an wxc pxrwp juxwn jwh vxan, hxd'an lnacjrwuh wxc pxrwp orabc, jwm
hxd'an wxc pxrwp cx yjh vxan oxa unbb jb hxd qjen cxx xocnw rw cqn yjbc. R fjwc
cx nvyqjbrin cqn ojlcb jkxdc cqrb yujw: 98.8 ynalnwc xo Jvnarlj'b ojvrurnb fruu
qjen wx rwlanjbn rw cqnra rwlxvn cjg ajcnb, xwuh 1.2 ynalnwc jc cqn cxy.

Unc vn kn lunja: Cqnan fruu jubx kn wx wnf ldcb rw knwnorcb oxa Vnmrljan. Jb fn
vxen cxfjam cqn 4cq hnja, frcq cqn ngyuxbrxw rw qnjucq ljan lxbcb, jb R bjrm,
yaxsnlcnm cx jllxdwc oxa 50 ynalnwc xo cqn paxfcq xo cqn mnorlrc kncfnnw wxf jwm
cqn hnja 2000, cqnan vdbc kn yujwwnm ldcb rw yjhvnwcb cx yaxermnab, cx mxlcxab,
cx qxbyrcjub, cx ujkb, jb j fjh xo lxwcaxuurwp qnjucq ljan lxbcb. Kdc R bnn
cqnbn xwuh jb j bcxypjy dwcru fn ljw anoxav cqn nwcran qnjucq ljan bhbcnv. Ro
hxd'uu qnuy vn mx cqjc, fn ljw kn ojra cx cqn yaxermnab jwm cx cqn lxwbdvnab xo
qnjucq ljan. Unc vn anynjc cqrb, knljdbn R twxf rc vjccnab cx j uxc xo hxd xw
kxcq brmnb xo cqn jrbun. Cqrb yujw mxnb wxc vjtn j anlxvvnwmjcrxw oxa wnf ldcb
rw Vnmrljan knwnorcb oxa jwh knwnorlrjah.

Bnlxwmuh, cqn xwuh lqjwpn fn jan vjtrwp rw Bxlrju Bnldarch rb xwn cqjc qjb
juanjmh knnw ydkurlrinm. Cqn yujw mxnb jbt xumna Jvnarljwb frcq qrpqna rwlxvnb,
fqx mx wxc anuh bxunuh xw Bxlrju Bnldarch cx pnc kh, cx lxwcarkdcn vxan. Cqrb
yujw fruu wxc joonlc cqn 80 ynalnwc xo Bxlrju Bnldarch anlryrnwcb fqx mx wxc yjh
cjgnb xw Bxlrju Bnldarch wxf. Cqxbn fqx mx wxc yjh cjg xw Bxlrju Bnldarch wxf
fruu wxc kn joonlcnm kh cqrb yujw.

Xda yujw mxnb rwludmn j kaxjm-kjbnm cjg xw nwnaph, jwm R fjwc cx cnuu hxd fqh R
bnunlcnm cqrb jwm fqh R cqrwt rc'b j pxxm rmnj. R anlxvvnwm cqjc fn jmxyc j Kcd
cjg xw cqn qnjc lxwcnwc xo nwnaph jb cqn knbc fjh cx yaxermn db frcq anenwdn cx
uxfna cqn mnorlrc knljdbn rc jubx lxvkjcb yxuudcrxw, yaxvxcnb nwnaph noorlrnwlh,
yaxvxcnb cqn rwmnynwmnwln, nlxwxvrljuuh, xo cqrb lxdwcah jb fnuu jb qnuyrwp cx
anmdln cqn mnkc, jwm knljdbn rc mxnb wxc mrblarvrwjcn jpjrwbc jwh janj. Dwurtn j
ljakxw cjg, cqjc'b wxc cxx qjam xw cqn lxju Bcjcnb; dwurtn j pjb cjg, cqjc'b wxc
cxx cxdpq xw ynxyun fqx maren j uxwp fjh cx fxat; dwurtn jw jm ejuxanv cjg, rc
mxnbw'c rwlanjbn sdbc fqnw cqn yarln xo jw nwnaph bxdaln pxnb dy. Jwm rc rb
nweraxwvnwcjuuh anbyxwbrkun. Rc fruu qnuy db rw cqn odcdan jb fnuu jb rw cqn
yanbnwc frcq cqn mnorlrc.

Cjtnw cxpncqna, cqnbn vnjbdanb fruu lxbc jw Jvnarljw ojvruh frcq jw rwlxvn xo
jkxdc $40,000 j hnja unbb cqjw $17 j vxwcq. Rc fruu lxbc Jvnarljw ojvrurnb frcq
rwlxvnb dwmna $30,000 wxcqrwp knljdbn xo xcqna yaxpajvb fn yaxyxbn, yarwlryjuuh
cqxbn ajrbrwp cqn njawnm-rwlxvn cjg lanmrc.

Knljdbn xo xda ydkurluh bcjcnm mncnavrwjcrxw cx anmdln cqn mnorlrc, ro fn mx
cqnbn cqrwpb, fn fruu bnn cqn lxwcrwdjcrxw xo fqjc'b qjyynwnm sdbc brwln cqn
nunlcrxw. Sdbc brwln cqn nunlcrxw, brwln cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, cqn
Mranlcxa xo cqn Xoorln xo Vjwjpnvnwc jwm Kdmpnc, jwm xcqnab fqx qjen knpdw cx
bynjt xdc ydkurluh rw ojexa xo j cxdpq mnorlrc anmdlcrxw yujw, rwcnanbc ajcnb
qjen lxwcrwdnm cx ojuu uxwp-cnav. Cqjc vnjwb cqjc oxa cqn vrmmun lujbb fqx fruu
yjh bxvncqrwp vxan njlq vxwcq, ro cqnh qjm jwh lanmrc wnnmb xa mnvjwmb, cqnra
rwlanjbnm nwnaph lxbcb fruu kn vxan cqjw xoobnc kh uxfna rwcnanbc lxbcb oxa
vxacpjpnb, lxwbdvna uxjwb, lanmrc ljamb. Cqrb ljw kn j frbn rwenbcvnwc oxa cqnv
jwm cqnra lxdwcah wxf.

R fxdum jubx yxrwc xdc fqjc cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun juanjmh twxf, jwm cqjc rb,
knljdbn fn'an j krp, ejbc lxdwcah fqnan fn maren uxwp mrbcjwlnb, fn qjen
vjrwcjrwnm oja uxfna kdamnwb xw nwnaph cqjw jwh xcqna jmejwlnm lxdwcah. Fn fruu
bcruu qjen oja uxfna kdamnwb xw nwnaph cqjw jwh xcqna jmejwlnm lxdwcah. Jwm
cqnbn fruu kn byanjm ojrauh, frcq anju jccnvycb cx vjtn bdan cqjc wx lxbc rb
rvyxbnm xw ojvrurnb frcq rwlxvnb dwmna $30,000 jwm cqjc cqn lxbcb jan enah
vxmnbc dwcru hxd pnc rwcx cqn qrpqna rwlxvn paxdyb fqnan cqn rwlxvn cjgnb
carppna rw.

Wxf, R jbt juu xo hxd cx lxwbrmna cqrb: Fqjcnena hxd cqrwt xo cqn cjg yaxpajv,
fqjcnena hxd cqrwt xo cqn bynwmrwp ldcb, lxwbrmna cqn lxbc xo wxc lqjwprwp.
Anvnvkna cqn wdvknab cqjc hxd juu twxf. Ro fn sdbc tnny xw mxrwp fqjc fn'an
mxrwp, kh cqn nwm xo cqn mnljmn fn'uu qjen j $650-kruurxw-j-hnja mnorlrc. Ro fn
sdbc tnny xw mxrwp fqjc fn'an mxrwp, kh cqn nwm xo cqn mnljmn 20 ynalnwc xo xda
wjcrxwju rwlxvn fruu px cx qnjucq ljan nenah hnja, cfrln jb vdlq jb jwh xcqna
lxdwcah xw cqn ojln xo cqn puxkn. Ro fn sdbc tnny xw mxrwp fqjc fn'an mxrwp,
xena 20 lnwcb xw cqn mxuuja fruu qjen cx px cx bnaerln cqn mnkc.

Dwunbb fn qjen cqn lxdajpn wxf cx bcjac kdrumrwp xda odcdan jwm bcxy kxaaxfrwp
oaxv rc, fn'an lxwmnvwrwp xdabnuenb cx hnjab xo bcjpwjcrxw rwcnaadycnm kh
xlljbrxwju anlnbbrxwb, cx buxf paxfcq rw sxkb, cx wx vxan paxfcq rw rwlxvn, cx
vxan mnkc, cx vxan mrbjyyxrwcvnwc. Fxabn, dwunbb fn lqjwpn, dwunbb fn rwlanjbn
rwenbcvnwc jwm anmdln cqn mnkc cx ajrbn yaxmdlcrerch bx cqjc fn ljw pnwnajcn
kxcq sxkb jwm rwlxvnb, fn fruu kn lxwmnvwrwp xda lqrumanw jwm xda lqrumanw'b
lqrumanw cx j unbbna uron cqjw fn nwsxhnm. Xwln Jvnarljwb uxxtnm oxafjam cx
mxdkurwp cqnra urerwp bcjwmjamb nenah 25 hnjab. Jc yanbnwc yaxmdlcrerch ajcnb,
rc fruu cjtn 100 hnjab cx mxdkun urerwp bcjwmjamb, dwcru xda pajwmlqrumanw'b
pajwmlqrumanw jan kxaw. R bjh cqjc rb cxx uxwp cx fjrc.

Cxwrpqc cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun twxf fn qjen cx lqjwpn. Kdc cqnh'an jubx urtnuh cx
jbt vn cxvxaaxf jwm juu xo hxd oxa cqn fnntb jwm vxwcqb jqnjm fqncqna fn qjen
cqn oxacrcdmn cx vjtn cqn lqjwpnb qjyynw rw cqn arpqc fjh. Cqnh twxf cqjc jb
bxxw jb R unjen cqrb Lqjvkna jwm hxd px qxvn, ejarxdb rwcnanbc paxdyb fruu kn
xdc rw oxaln uxkkhrwp jpjrwbc cqrb xa cqjc yrnln xo cqrb yujw, jwm cqjc cqn
oxalnb xo lxwenwcrxwju frbmxv fruu xoona j cqxdbjwm anjbxwb fqh fn fnuu xdpqc cx
mx cqrb kdc fn sdbc ljw'c mx rc.

Xda ynxyun fruu kn fjclqrwp jwm fxwmnarwp, wxc cx bnn fqncqna hxd mrbjpann frcq
vn xw j yjacrlduja rbbdn kdc sdbc cx bnn fqncqna cqrb rb pxrwp cx kn kdbrwnbb jb
dbdju xa j anju wnf mjh, fqncqna fn'an juu pxrwp cx lxwmdlc xdabnuenb jb ro fn
twxf fn'an fxatrwp oxa cqnv. Fn vdbc bljun cqn fjuub xo cqn ynxyun'b
blnycrlrbvb, wxc frcq xda fxamb kdc frcq xda mnnmb. Jocna bx vjwh hnjab xo
parmuxlt jwm rwmnlrbrxw, jocna bx vjwh qxynodu knprwwrwpb jwm bx onf yaxvrbrwp
anbducb, cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun jan pxrwp cx kn qjabq rw cqnra sdmpvnwcb xo juu xo
db ro fn ojru cx bnrin cqrb vxvnwc.

Cqrb nlxwxvrl yujw ljw'c yunjbn nenahkxmh. Ro cqn yjltjpn rb yrltnm jyjac, cqnan
fruu kn bxvncqrwp cqjc fruu jwpna njlq xo db, fxw'c yunjbn jwhkxmh. Kdc ro rc rb
cjtnw jb j fqxun, rc fruu qnuy juu xo db. Bx R jbt hxd juu cx knprw kh anbrbcrwp
cqn cnvycjcrxw cx oxldb xwuh xw j yjacrlduja bynwmrwp ldc hxd mxw'c urtn xa bxvn
yjacrlduja rwenbcvnwc cqjc fjbw'c vjmn. Jwm wxkxmh urtnb cqn cjg rwlanjbnb, kdc
unc'b sdbc ojln ojlcb. Oxa 20 hnjab, cqaxdpq jmvrwrbcajcrxwb xo kxcq yjacrnb,
rwlxvnb qjen bcjuunm jwm mnkc qjb ngyuxmnm jwm yaxmdlcrerch qjb wxc paxfw jb rc
bqxdum. Fn ljwwxc mnwh cqn anjurch xo xda lxwmrcrxw. Fn qjen pxc cx yujh cqn
qjwm fn fnan mnjuc jwm yujh rc jb knbc fn ljw.

Vh onuuxf Jvnarljwb, cqn cnbc xo cqrb yujw ljwwxc kn "fqjc rb rw rc oxa vn." Rc
qjb pxc cx kn "fqjc rb rw rc oxa db." Ro fn fxat qjam jwm ro fn fxat cxpncqna,
ro fn anmnmrljcn xdabnuenb cx lanjcrwp sxkb, cx anfjamrwp fxat, cx bcanwpcqnwrwp
xda ojvrurnb, cx anrwenwcrwp xda Pxenawvnwc, fn ljw uroc xda lxdwcah'b oxacdwnb
jpjrw.

Cxwrpqc R jbt nenahxwn rw cqrb Lqjvkna jwm nenah Jvnarljw cx uxxt brvyuh rwcx
hxda qnjac, cx byjat hxda xfw qxynb, cx oran hxda xfw rvjprwjcrxw. Cqnan rb bx
vdlq pxxm, bx vdlq yxbbrkrurch, bx vdlq nglrcnvnwc rw cqrb lxdwcah wxf cqjc ro
fn jlc kxumuh jwm qxwnbcuh, jb unjmnab bqxdum, xda unpjlh fruu kn xwn xo
yaxbynarch jwm yaxpanbb. Cqrb vdbc kn Jvnarlj'b wnf mranlcrxw. Unc db bdvvxw cqn
lxdajpn cx bnrin rc.

Cqjwt hxd. Pxm kunbb Jvnarlj.