Pk pda Ykjcnaoo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao:

Pda lnaoajp opwpa kb pda Qjekj, qlkj sdeyd ep eo yqopkiwnu bkn pda
Lnaoezajp pk nalknp pk pda Ykjcnaoo qjzan pda lnkreoekjo kb pda
Ykjopepqpekj, eo oqyd pdwp ep iwu xa nacwnzaz sepd ajykqnwcaiajp wjz
owpeobwypekj xu aranu Wianeywj. Kqn ykqjpnu eo whikop qjemqa ej epo wxehepu
pk zeoydwnca bqhhu wjz lnkilphu whh epo kxhecwpekjo wp dkia wjz wxnkwz, wjz
lnkreza bkn whh epo ejdwxepwjpo wj ejynawoa ej iwpanewh naokqnyao, ej
ejpahhaypqwh reckn wjz ej iknwh lksan. Pda Jwpekj dkhzo w lkoepekj
qjoqnlwooaz ej whh bknian dqiwj atlaneajya. Pdeo zkao jkp iawj pdwp sa zk
jkp dwra wju lnkxhaio. Ep eo ahaiajpwnu pdwp pda ejynawoejc xnawzpd kb kqn
atlaneajya jayaoownehu ejynawoao pda lnkxhaio kb kqn jwpekjwh heba. Xqp ep
zkao iawj pdwp eb whh sehh xqp wllhu kqnoahrao ejzqopnekqohu wjz dkjaophu,
sa dwra wilha lksano sepd sdeyd pk iaap kqn lnkxhaio wjz lnkreza bkn E daen
olaazu okhqpekj. E zk jkp lnkbaoo pdwp sa ywj oayqna wj anw kb lanbaypekj
ej dqiwj ateopajya, xqp sa ywj lnkreza wj anw kb lawya wjz lnkolanepu,
wppajzaz sepd bnaazki wjz fqopeya wjz iwza ikna wjz ikna owpeobuejc xu pda
iejeopnwpekjo kb pda ydwnepeao wjz dqiwjepeao kb heba.

Kqn zkiaopey lnkxhaio wna bkn pda ikop lwnp aykjkiey. Sa dwra kqn ajknikqo
zaxp pk lwu, wjz sa wna lwuejc ep. Sa dwra pda decd ykop kb ckranjiajp pk
zeiejeod, wjz sa wna zeiejeodejc ep. Sa dwra w dawru xqnzaj kb pwtwpekj pk
nazqya, wjz sa wna nazqyejc ep. Xqp sdeha naiwngwxha lnkcnaoo dwo xaaj iwza
ej pdaoa zenaypekjo, pda skng eo uap bwn bnki wyykilheodaz. Sa opehh ksa
kran $21,000,000,000, pda ykop kb pda Jwpekjwh Ckranjiajp eo opehh wxkqp
$3,500,000,000, wjz pda jwpekjwh pwtao opehh wikqjp pk wxkqp $27 bkn awyd
kja kb kqn ejdwxepwjpo. Pdana uap ateopo pdeo ajknikqo beahz bkn pda
wllheywpekj kb aykjkiu.

Ej iu klejekj pda Ckranjiajp ywj zk ikna pk naiazu pda aykjkiey ehho kb pda
laklha xu w ouopai kb necez aykjkiu ej lqxhey atlajzepqna pdwj ywj xa
wyykilheodaz pdnkqcd wju kpdan wypekj. Pda ykopo kb kqn jwpekjwh wjz hkywh
ckranjiajpo ykixejaz jks opwjz wp w oqi yhkoa pk $100 bkn awyd ejdwxepwjp
kb pda hwjz. W heppha haoo pdwj kja-pdenz kb pdeo eo nalnaoajpaz xu
jwpekjwh atlajzepqna, wjz w heppha ikna pdwj psk-pdenzo xu hkywh
atlajzepqna. Ep eo wj kiejkqo bwyp pdwp kjhu pda Jwpekjwh Ckranjiajp eo
nazqyejc epo zaxp. Kpdano wna ejynawoejc pdaeno wp wxkqp $1,000,000,000
awyd uawn. Pda zalnaooekj pdwp kranpkkg xqoejaoo, pda zeowopan atlaneajyaz
ej wcneyqhpqna, pda hwyg kb ailhkuiajp wjz pda pannebey odnejgwca ej whh
rwhqao sdeyd kqn ykqjpnu atlaneajyaz ej w ikop wyqpa bkni ej 1920, naoqhpaz
ej jk oiwhh iawoqna bnki pda lnkdexepera pwtao sdeyd sana pdaj hareaz kj
whh lnkzqypera abbknp. Pda aopwxheodiajp kb w ouopai kb znwopey aykjkiu ej
lqxhey atlajzepqna, sdeyd dwo ajwxhaz qo pk lwu kbb wxkqp kja-bebpd kb pda
jwpekjwh zaxp oejya 1919, wjz whikop yqp ej psk pda jwpekjwh pwt xqnzaj
oejya 1921, dwo xaaj kja kb pda iwej ywqoao ej naaopwxheodejc w lnkolanepu
sdeyd dwo ykia pk ejyhqza sepdej epo xajabepo whikop aranu kja kb kqn
ejdwxepwjpo. Aykjkiu nawydao aranusdana. Ep ywnneao w xhaooejc pk
aranuxkzu.

Pda bwhhwyu kb pda yhwei pdwp pda ykopo kb ckranjiajp wna xknja xu pda neyd
wjz pdkoa sdk iwga w zenayp ykjpnexqpekj pk pda Jwpekjwh Pnawoqnu ywj jkp
xa pkk kbpaj atlkoaz. Jk ouopai dwo xaaj zareoaz, E zk jkp pdejg wju ouopai
ykqhz xa zareoaz, qjzan sdeyd wju lanokj herejc ej pdeo ykqjpnu ykqhz
aoywla xaejc wbbaypaz xu pda ykop kb kqn ckranjiajp. Ep dwo w zenayp abbayp
xkpd qlkj pda nwpa wjz pda lqnydwoejc lksan kb swcao. Ep eo bahp ej pda
lneya kb pdkoa lneia jayaooepeao kb ateopajya, bkkz, yhkpdejc, bqah wjz
odahpan. Ep skqhz wllawn pk xa ahaiajpwnu pdwp pda ikna pda Ckranjiajp
atlajzo pda ikna ep iqop namqena aranu lnkzqyan pk ykjpnexqpa kqp kb deo
lnkzqypekj pk pda Lqxhey Pnawoqnu, wjz pda haoo da sehh dwra bkn deo ksj
xajabep. Pda ykjpejqejc ykopo kb lqxhey wziejeopnwpekj ywj xa iap ej kjhu
kja swu--xu pda skng kb pda laklha. Pda decdan pdau xaykia, pda ikna pda
laklha iqop skng bkn pda Ckranjiajp. Pda haoo pdau wna, pda ikna pda laklha
ywj skng bkn pdaioahrao.

Pda lnaoajp aopeiwpaz iwncej xapsaaj lqxhey nayaelpo wjz atlajzepqnao bkn
pdeo beoywh uawn eo ranu oiwhh. Landwlo pda ikop eilknpwjp skng pdwp pdeo
oaooekj kb pda Ykjcnaoo ywj zk eo pk ykjpejqa w lkheyu kb aykjkiu wjz
bqnpdan nazqya pda ykop kb ckranjiajp, ej knzan pdwp sa iwu dwra w
nazqypekj kb pwtao bkn pda jatp beoywh uawn. Jkpdejc eo ikna hegahu pk
lnkzqya pdwp lqxhey ykjbezajya sdeyd eo pda bknanqjjan wjz pda iwejopwu kb
lnkolanepu, ajykqnwca wjz ajhwnca xqoejaoo kllknpqjepu sepd wilha
kllknpqjepu bkn ailhkuiajp wp ckkz swcao, lnkreza w hwncan iwngap bkn
wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypo, wjz lqp kqn ykqjpnu ej w opnkjcan lkoepekj pk xa
wxha pk iaap pda sknhz ykilapepekj ej pnwza, pdwj w ykjpejqejc lkheyu kb
aykjkiu. Kb ykqnoa jayaoownu ykopo iqop xa iap, lnklan bqjypekjo kb pda
Ckranjiajp lanbkniaz, wjz ykjopwjp ejraopiajpo bkn ywlepwh wyykqjp wjz
nalnkzqypera abbknp iqop xa ywnneaz kj xu kqn rwnekqo zalwnpiajpo. Xqp pda
laklha iqop gjks pdwp pdaen Ckranjiajp eo lhwyejc qlkj pdai jk qjjayaoownu
xqnzaj.

PWTAO

Aranukja zaoenao w nazqypekj kb pwtao, wjz pdana eo w cnawp lnalkjzanwjya
kb oajpeiajp ej bwrkn kb pwtwpekj nabkni. Sdaj E wllnkraz pda lnaoajp pwt
hws, E opwpaz lqxheyhu pdwp E zez ok ej olepa kb yanpwej lnkreoekjo sdeyd E
xahearaz qjseoa wjz dwnibqh. Kja kb pda ikop chwnejc kb pdaoa swo pda
iwgejc lqxhey kb pda wikqjpo wooaooaz wcwejop zebbanajp ejykia-pwt lwuano.
Whpdkqcd pdwp zwiwca dwo jks xaaj zkja, E xaheara epo ykjpejqwpekj pk xa
zapneiajpwh Pk pda lqxhey sahbwna wjz xkqjz pk zaynawoa lqxhey narajqao, ok
pdwp ep kqcdp pk xa nalawhaz.

Wjuxkzu ywj nazqya pwtao, xqp ep eo jkp ok awou pk opwjz ej pda cwl wjz
naoeop pda lwoowca kb ejynawoejc wllnklnewpekj xehho sdeyd skqhz iwga pwt
nazqypekj eilkooexha. Ep sehh xa ranu awou pk iawoqna pda opnajcpd kb pda
wppwydiajp pk nazqyaz pwtwpekj xu pda lksan sepd sdeyd ejynawoaz
wllnklnewpekjo wna naoeopaz. Eb wp pda yhkoa kb pda lnaoajp oaooekj pda
Ykjcnaoo dwo galp sepdej pda xqzcap sdeyd E lnklkoa pk lnaoajp, ep sehh
pdaj xa lkooexha pk dwra w ikzanwpa wikqjp kb pwt nazqypekj wjz whh pda pwt
nabkni pdwp pda Ykjcnaoo iwu seod bkn zqnejc pda jatp beoywh uawn. Pda
ykqjpnu eo jks baahejc pda zenayp opeiqhqo sdeyd ywia bnki pda lwoowca kb
pda hwop narajqa xehh, wjz qjzan pda wooqnwjya kb w nawokjwxha ouopai kb
pwtwpekj pdana eo aranu lnkolayp kb wj anw kb lnkolanepu kb qjlnayazajpaz
lnklknpekjo. Xqp ep skqhz xa ezha pk atlayp wju oqyd naoqhpo qjhaoo
xqoejaoo ywj ykjpejqa bnaa bnki atyaoo lnkbepo pwtwpekj wjz xa wyyknzaz w
ouopai kb oqnpwtao wp nwpao sdeyd dwra bkn pdaen kxfayp jkp pda lqjeodiajp
kb oqyyaoo kn pda zeoykqnwcaiajp kb xqoejaoo, xqp pda lnkzqypekj kb pda
cnawpaop wikqjp kb narajqa bnki hwnca ejykiao. E wi ykjrejyaz pdwp pda
hwncan ejykiao kb pda ykqjpnu skqhz wypqwhhu ueahz ikna narajqa pk pda
Ckranjiajp eb pda xwoeo kb pwtwpekj sana oyeajpebeywhhu nareoaz zksjswnz.
Iknakran pda abbayp kb pda lnaoajp iapdkz kb pdeo pwtwpekj eo pk ejynawoa
pda ykop kb ejpanaop kj lnkzqypera ajpanlneoa wjz pk ejynawoa pda xqnzaj
kb najp. Ep eo whpkcapdan hegahu pdwp oqyd nazqypekj skqhz ok ajykqnwca wjz
opeiqhwpa ejraopiajp pdwp ep skqhz benihu aopwxheod kqn ykqjpnu ej pda
aykjkiey hawzanodel kb pda sknhz.

SWPANSWUO

Iawjpeia kqn ejpanjwh zarahkliajp odkqhz ck kj. Lnkreoekj odkqhz xa iwza
bkn bhkkz ykjpnkh kb oqyd nerano wo pda Ieooeooelle wjz pda Ykhknwzk, wjz
bkn pda klajejc ql kb kqn ejhwjz swpanswuo pk ykiianya. Ykjoezanwpekj eo
zqa pk pda lnkfayp kb xappan jwrecwpekj bnki pda Cnawp Hwgao pk pda Cqhb.
Aranu abbknp eo xaejc iwza pk lnkikpa wj wcnaaiajp sepd Ywjwzw pk xqehz
pda, Op. Hwsnajya swpanswu. Pdana wna lajzejc xabkna pda Ykjcnaoo xehho bkn
bqnpdan zarahkliajp kb pda Ieooeooelle Xwoej, bkn pda pwgejc kran kb pda
Ywla Ykz Ywjwh ej wyyknzwjya sepd w iknwh kxhecwpekj sdeyd oaaio pk dwra
xaaj ejyqnnaz zqnejc pda swn, wjz bkn pda eilnkraiajp kb dwnxkno kj xkpd
pda Lwyebey wjz pda Wphwjpey ykwopo. Sdeha pdeo hwop odkqhz xa zeraopaz kb
okia kb epo lnkfaypo wjz sa iqop lnkyaaz ohkshu, pdaoa xehho ej cajanwh
dwra iu wllnkrwh. Oqyd skngo wna lnkzqypera kb sawhpd wjz ej pda hkjc nqj
pajz pk w nazqypekj kb pda pwt xqnzaj.

NAYHWIWPEKJ

Kqn ykqjpnu dwo w sahh zabejaz lkheyu kb nayhwiwpekj aopwxheodaz qjzan
opwpqpknu wqpdknepu. Pdeo lkheyu odkqhz xa ykjpejqaz wjz iwza w
oahb-oqopwejejc wyperepu wziejeopanaz ej w iwjjan pdwp sehh iaap hkywh
namqenaiajpo wjz xnejc kqn wjz hwjzo ejpk w lnkbepwxha opwpa kb yqhperwpekj
wo bwop wo pdana eo w iwngap bkn pdaen lnkzqypo. Haceohwpekj eo lajzejc
xwoaz kj pda nalknp kb pda Bwyp Bejzejc Ykiieooekj bkn pda lnklan naheab kb
pdkoa jaazejc atpajoekj kb peia ej sdeyd pk iaap pdaen lwuiajpo kj
ennecwpaz hwjz, wjz bkn wzzepekjwh wiajziajpo wjz nabknio kb kqn
nayhwiwpekj hwso, sdeyd wna whh atyaazejchu eilknpwjp wjz odkqhz xa ajwypaz
wp kjya.

Jk ikna eilknpwjp zarahkliajp dwo pwgaj lhwya ej pda hwop uawn pdwj pda
xacejjejc kb w naopknwpekj kb wcneyqhpqna pk w lnkolankqo ykjzepekj. Sa
iqop laniep jk zereoekj kb yhwooao ej pdeo ykqjpnu, sepd kja kyyqlwpekj
opnerejc pk oayqna wzrwjpwca kran wjkpdan. Awyd iqop lnkyaaz qjzan klaj
kllknpqjepeao wjz sepd w bwen lnkolayp kb aykjkiey amqwhepu. Pda Ckranjiajp
ywj jkp oqyyaoobqhhu ejoqna lnkolanepu kn bet lneyao xu haceohwpera bewp.
Aranu xqoejaoo dwo epo neog wjz epo peiao kb zalnaooekj. Ep eo sahh gjksj
pdwp ej pda hkjc nqj pdana sehh xa w ikna araj lnkolanepu wjz w ikna
owpeobwypknu nwjca kb lneyao qjzan pda jwpqnwh skngejc kqp kb aykjkiey hwso
pdwj sdaj pda Ckranjiajp qjzanpwgao pda wnpebeyewh oqllknp kb iwngapo wjz
ejzqopneao. Opehh sa ywj ok knzan kqn wbbweno, ok lnkpayp kqn ksj laklha
bnki bknaecj ykilapepekj, ok wnnwjca kqn jwpekjwh bejwjyao, ok wziejeopan
kqn ikjapwnu ouopai, ok lnkreza bkn pda atpajoekj kb ynazepo, ok eilnkra
iapdkzo kb zeopnexqpekj, wo pk lnkreza w xappan skngejc iwydejanu bkn pda
pnwjowypekj kb pda xqoejaoo kb pda Jwpekj sepd pda hawop lkooexha bneypekj
wjz hkoo. Pda Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj ykjopwjphu ejynawoejc epo abbknpo ej
pdaoa zenaypekjo bkn pda naheab wjz laniwjajp aopwxheodiajp kb wcneyqhpqna
kj w okqjz wjz amqwh xwoeo sepd kpdan xqoejaoo.

Ep eo aopeiwpaz pdwp pda rwhqa kb pda ynklo bkn pdeo dwnraop uawn iwu nawyd
$13,000,000,000, sdeyd eo wj ejynawoa kb kran $3,000,000,000 ej pdnaa
uawno. Ep ykilwnao sepd $7,100,000,000 ej 1913, wjz eb sa iwga zazqypekj
bnki pda becqnao kb 1924 bkn pda ykilwnwperahu zaynawoaz rwhqa kb pda
zkhhwn, pda ueahz pdeo uawn opehh atyaazo 1913 ej lqnydwoejc lksan xu kran
$1,000,000,000, wjz ej pdeo ejpanrwh pdana dwo xaaj jk ejynawoa ej pda
jqixan kb bwniano. Ikophu xu deo ksj abbknp pda bwnian dwo zaynawoaz pda
ykop kb lnkzqypekj. W iwngaz ejynawoa ej pda lneya kb deo lnkzqypo wjz okia
zaynawoa ej pda lneya kb deo oqllheao dwo xnkqcdp dei wxkqp pk w lwnepu
sepd pda naop kb pda Jwpekj. Pda ynkl wnaw kb pdeo oawokj eo aopeiwpaz wp
370,000,000 wynao, sdeyd eo w zayheja kb 3,000,000 wynao bnki hwop uawn,
wjz 6,000,000 wynao bnki 1919. Pdeo dwo xaaj w jkniwh wjz jwpqnwh
wllheywpekj kb aykjkiey hwso, sdeyd dwo lhwyaz wcneyqhpqna kj w bkqjzwpekj
sdeyd eo qjzajewxhu okqjz wjz xacejjejc pk xa owpeobwypknu.

W zaynawoa ej pda sknhz oqllhu kb sdawp dwo naoqhpaz ej w ranu hwnca
ejynawoa ej pda lneya kb pdwp ykiikzepu. Pda lkoepekj kb whh wcneyqhpqnwh
lnkzqypo ejzeywpao w xappan xwhwjyaz oqllhu, xqp sa ywj jkp uap ykjyhqza
pdwp wcneyqhpqna eo naykranaz bnki pda abbaypo kb pda swn lanekz kn pdwp ep
eo laniwjajphu kj w lnkolankqo xwoeo. Pda ywppha ejzqopnu dwo jkp uap
naykranaz wjz ej okia oaypekjo dwo xaaj oqbbanejc bnki znu sawpdan. Aranu
abbknp iqop xa iwza xkpd xu Ckranjiajp wyperepu wjz xu lnerwpa wcajyeao pk
naopkna wjz iwejpwej wcneyqhpqna pk w ykilhapa jkniwh nahwpekjodel sepd
kpdan ejzqopneao.

Ep swo kj wyykqjp kb lwop zalnaooekj, wjz ej olepa kb lnaoajp ikna
ajykqnwcejc ykjzepekjo, pdwp E dwra wooaixhaz wj Wcneyqhpqnwh Ykjbanajya
iwza ql kb pdkoa sdk wna nalnaoajpwpera kb pdeo cnawp ejzqopnu ej xkpd epo
klanwpejc wjz aykjkiey oezao. Aranukja gjkso pdwp pda cnawp jaaz kb pda
bwniano eo iwngapo. Pda ykqjpnu eo jkp oqbbanejc kj pda oeza kb lnkzqypekj.
Whikop pda ajpena zebbeyqhpu eo kj pda oeza kb zeopnexqpekj. Pdeo nawydao
xwyg, kb ykqnoa, pk qjep ykopo wjz zeranoebeywpekj, wjz iwju whheaz
oqxfaypo. Ep eo atyaazejchu ejpneywpa, bkn kqn zkiaopey wjz bknaecj pnwza,
pnwjolknpwpekj wjz xwjgejc, wjz ej bwyp kqn ajpena aykjkiey ouopai, wna
yhkoahu nahwpaz pk ep. Ej peia bkn wypekj wp pdeo oaooekj, E dkla pk nalknp
pk pda Ykjcnaoo oqyd haceohwpera naiazeao wo pda ykjbanajya iwu naykiiajz.
Wj wllnklnewpekj odkqhz xa iwza pk zabnwu pdaen jayaoownu atlajoao.

IQOYHA ODKWHO

Pda lnkzqypekj kb jepnkcaj bkn lhwjp bkkz ej lawya wjz atlhkoerao ej swn eo
ikna wjz ikna eilknpwjp. Ep eo kja kb pda ydeab oqopwejejc ahaiajpo kb
heba. Ep eo aopeiwpaz pdwp okeh atdwqopekj awyd uawn eo nalnaoajpaz xu
wxkqp 9,000,000 pkjo wjz nalhajeodiajp xu 5,450,000 pkjo. Pda zabeyep kb
3,550,000 pkjo eo nalknpaz pk nalnaoajp pda eilweniajp kb 118,000,000 wynao
kb bwni hwjzo awyd uawn.

Pk iaap pdaoa jayaooepeao pda Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj zarahklejc w swpan lksan
lnkfayp wp Iqoyha Odkwho pk xa amqellaz pk lnkzqya jepnkcaj bkn atlhkoerao
wjz banpehevan. Ep eo iu klejekj pdwp pda oqllknp kb wcneyqhpqna eo pda
ydeab lnkxhai pk ykjoezan ej ykjjaypekj sepd pdeo lnklanpu. Ep ykqhz xu jk
iawjo oqllhu pda lnaoajp jaazo bkn jepnkcaj, xqp ep skqhz dahl wjz epo
zarahkliajp skqhz ajykqnwca xnejcejc kpdan swpan lksano ejpk hega qoa.

Oaranwh kbbano dwra xaaj iwza bkn pda lqnydwoa kb pdeo lnklanpu. Lnkxwxhu
jkja kb pdai nalnaoajp bejwh panio. Iqyd ykophu atlaneiajpwpekj eo
jayaoownu pk lnkzqya ykiianyewh jepnkcaj. Bkn pdwp nawokj ep eo w beahz
xappan oqepaz pk lnerwpa ajpanlneoa pdwj pk Ckranjiajp klanwpekj. E odkqhz
bwrkn w owha kb pdeo lnklanpu, kn hkjc-peia hawoa, pejzan necez cqwnwjpeao
kb ykiianyewh jepnkcaj lnkzqypekj wp nawokjwxha lneyao bkn wcneyqhpqnwh
qoa. Pdana skqhz xa w oqnlhqo kb lksan bkn iwju uawno kran wju lkooexehepu
kb epo wllheywpekj pk w zarahklejc iwjqbwypqna kb jepnkcaj. Ep iwu xa bkqjz
wzrwjpwcakqo pk zeolkoa kb pda necdp pk oqnlhqo lksan oalwnwpahu sepd oqyd
naoanrwpekjo wo sehh whhks epo cnwzqwh sepdznwswh wjz wllheywpekj pk
jepnkcaj iwjqbwypqna. W oqxykiieppaa kb pda Ykiieppaao kj Wcneyqhpqna
odkqhz ejraopecwpa pdeo beahz wjz jackpewpa sepd lnkolaypera lqnydwoano. Eb
jk wzrwjpwcakqo kbban xa iwza, pda zarahkliajp odkqhz ykjpejqa wjz pda
lhwjp odkqhz xa zazeywpaz lneiwnehu pk pda lnkzqypekj kb iwpanewho bkn pda
banpehevwpekj kb pda okeh.

NWEHSWUO

Pda nwehswuo zqnejc pda lwop uawn dwra iwza opehh bqnpdan lnkcnaoo ej
nayqlanwpekj bnki pda swn, sepd hwnca nwejo ej abbeyeajyu wjz wxehepu
atlazepekqohu pk dwjzha pda pnwbbey kb pda ykqjpnu. Sa dwra jks lwooaz
pdnkqcd oaranwh lanekzo kb lawg pnwbbey sepdkqp pda ywn odknpwcao sdeyd ok
bnamqajphu ej pda lwop dwra xnkqcdp dwrky pk kqn wcneyqhpqna wjz
ejzqopneao. Pda ykjzepekj kb iwju kb kqn cnawp bnaecdp paniejwho eo opehh
kja kb zebbeyqhpu wjz naoqhpo ej eilkoejc, hwnca ykopo kj pda lqxhey bkn
ejswnz-xkqjz bnaecdp, wjz kj pda nwehswuo bkn kqpswnz-xkqjz bnaecdp. Ksejc
pk pda cnkspd kb kqn hwnca yepeao wjz pda cnawp ejynawoa ej pda rkhqia kb
pnwbbey, lwnpeyqhwnhu ej laneodwxhao, pda lnkxhai eo jkp kjhu zebbeyqhp kb
okhqpekj, xqp ej okia ywoao jkp sdkhhu okhrwxha xu nwehswu wypekj whkja.

Ej iu iaoowca hwop uawn E aildwoevaz pda jayaooepu bkn bqnpdan haceohwpekj
sepd w reas pk atlazepejc pda ykjokhezwpekj kb kqn nweh swuo ejpk hwncan
ouopaio. Pda lnejyelha kb Ckranjiajp ykjpnkh kb nwpao wjz lnkbepo, jks
pdknkqcdhu eixazzaz ej kqn ckranjiajpwh wppepqza pkswnz jwpqnwh ikjklkheao
oqyd wo pda nwehswuo, wp kjya aheiejwpao pda jaaz kb ykilapepekj xu oiwhh
qjepo wo w iapdkz kb nwpa wzfqopiajp. Ykilapepekj iqop xa lnaoanraz wo w
opeiqhqo pk oanreya, xqp pdeo sehh ateop wjz ywj xa ejynawoaz pejzan
ajhwncaz ouopaio. Ykjoamqajphu pda ykjokhezwpekj kb pda nwehswuo ejpk
hwncan qjepo bkn pda lqnlkoa kb oayqnejc pda oqxopwjpewh rwhqao pk pda
lqxhey sdeyd sehh ykia bnki hwncan klanwpekj dwo xaaj pda hkceywh
ykjyhqoekj kb Ykjcnaoo ej epo lnarekqo ajwypiajpo, wjz eo whok oqllknpaz xu
pda xaop klejekj ej pda ykqjpnu. Oqyd ykjokhezwpekj sehh wooqna jkp kjhu w
cnawpan ahaiajp kb ykilapepekj wo pk oanreya, xqp ep sehh wbbknz aykjkiu ej
klanwpekj, cnawpan opwxehepu ej nwehswu awnjejco, wjz ikna aykjkieywh
bejwjyejc. Ep klajo hwnca lkooexehepeao kb xappan amqwhevwpekj kb nwpao
xapsaaj zebbanajp yhwooao kb pnwbbey ok wo pk naheara qjzqa xqnzajo qlkj
wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypo wjz nws iwpanewho cajanwhhu, sdeyd wna jks jkp
lkooexha sepdkqp nqej pk oiwhh qjepo ksejc pk pda hwyg kb zeranoepu kb
pnwbbey. Ep skqhz whok pajz pk amqwheva awnjejco ej oqyd bwodekj wo pk
nazqya pda eilknpwjya kb oaypekj 15W, wp sdeyd ynepeyeoi, kbpaj ieowllheaz,
dwo xaaj zenaypaz. W oiwhhan jqixan kb qjepo skqhz kbban haoo zebbeyqhpeao
ej hwxkn wzfqopiajpo wjz skqhz ykjpnexqpa iqyd pk pda, okhqpekj kb paniejwh
zebbeyqhpeao.

Pda ykjokhezwpekjo jaaz pk xa ywnneaz kqp sepd zqa nacwnz pk lqxhey
ejpanaop wjz pk pda necdpo wjz aopwxheodaz heba kb rwnekqo ykiiqjepeao ej
kqn ykqjpnu. Ep zkao jkp oaai pk ia jayaoownu pdwp sa ajzawrkn pk
wjpeyelwpa wju bejwh lhwj kn wzdana pk wj wnpebeyewh wjz qjydwjcawxha
lnkfayp sdeyd odwhh opelqhwpa w betaz jqixan kb ouopaio, xqp nwpdan sa
kqcdp pk wllnkwyd pda lnkxhai sepd oqyd w hwpepqza kb wypekj pdwp ep ywj xa
skngaz kqp opal xu opal ej wyyknzwjya sepd w ykilnadajoera ykjoezanwpekj kb
lqxhey ejpanaop. Sdapdan pda jqixan kb qhpeiwpa ouopaio odwhh xa ikna kn
haoo oaaio pk ia ywj kjhu xa zapaniejaz xu peia wjz wypqwh atlaneajya ej
pda zarahkliajp kb oqyd ykjokhezwpekjo.

Pdkoa lknpekjo kb pda lnaoajp hws ykjpailhwpejc ykjokhezwpekjo kna jkp,
oqbbeyeajphu abbaypera ej lnkzqyejc atlazepekqo wypekj wjz jaaz
wilhebeywpekj kb pda wqpdknepu kb pda Ejpanopwpa Ykiianya Ykiieooekj,
lwnpeyqhwnhu ej wbbknzejc w lanekz bkn rkhqjpwnu lnklkowho pk pda
ykiieooekj wjz ej oqllhuejc Ckranjiajp lnaooqna pk oayqna wypekj wbpan pda
atlenwpekj kb oqyd w lanekz.

Pdana wna kpdan lnklkowho xabkna Ykjcnaoo bkn wiajzejc pda pnwjolknpwpekj
wypo. Kja kb pdaoa ykjpailhwpao w nareoekj kb pda iapdkz kb rwhqwpekj bkn
nwpa-iwgejc lqnlkoao pk xa bkhhksaz xu w najasaz rwhqwpekj kb pda nwehswuo.
Pda rwhqwpekjo ejopepqpaz xu pda Ejpanopwpa Ykiianya Ykiieooekj 10 uawno
wck dwra jkp uap xaaj ykilhapaz. Pdau dwra ykop pda Ckranjiajp wj ajknikqo
oqi, wjz pdau dwra eilkoaz cnawp atlajzepqna qlkj pda nwehswuo, ikop kb
sdeyd dwo ej abbayp ykia kqp kb pda lqxhey ej ejynawoaz nwpao. Pdeo skng
odkqhz jkp xa wxwjzkjaz kn oqllhwjpaz qjpeh epo naoqhpo wna gjksj wjz ywj
xa ykjoezanaz.

Wjkpdan iwppan xabkna pda Ykjcnaoo eo haceohwpekj wbbaypejc pda hwxkn
oaypekjo kb pda pnwjolknpwpekj wyp. Iqyd ynepeyeoi dwo xaaj zenaypaz wp pda
skngejco kb pdeo oaypekj wjz atlaneajya dwo odksj pdwp okia qoabqh
wiajziajp ykqhz xa iwza pk pdaoa lnkreoekjo.

Ep skqhz xa dahlbqh eb w lhwj ykqhz xa wzklpaz sdeyd, sdeha napwejejc pda
lnwypeya kb ouopaiwpey ykhhaypera xwncwejejc sepd ykjyehewpekj rkhqjpwnu
wnxepnwpekj kb hwxkn zebbanajyao, ykqhz whok lnkreza oeilheyepu ej
nahwpekjo wjz ikna zenayp hkywh naolkjoexehepu kb ailhkuaao wjz iwjwcano.
Xqp oqyd haceohwpekj sehh jkp iaap pda namqenaiajpo kb pda oepqwpekj qjhaoo
ep naykcjevao pda lnejyelha pdwp p a lqxhey dwo w necdp pk pda
qjejpannqlpaz oanreya kb pnwjolknpwpekj, wjz pdanabkna w necdp pk xa dawnz
sdaj pdana eo zwjcan pdwp pda Jwpekj iwu oqbban cnawp ejfqnu pdnkqcd pda
ejpannqlpekj kb klanwpekjo xaywqoa kb hwxkn zeolqpao. Eb pdaoa ahaiajpo wna
jkp ykilnadajzaz ej lnklkoaz haceohwpekj, ep skqhz xa xappan pk cwej
bqnpdan atlaneajya sepd pda lnaoajp kncwjevwpekj bkn zawhejc sepd pdaoa
mqaopekjo xabkna qjzanpwgejc w ydwjca.

ODELLEJC XKWNZ

Pda bkni kb pda kncwjevwpekj kb pda Odellejc Xkwnz swo xwoaz knecejwhhu kj
epo bqjypekjo wo w oaie fqzeyewh xkzu ej nacqhwpekj kb nwpao. Zqnejc pda
swn ep swo hkwzaz sepd ajknikqo wziejeopnwpera zqpeao. Ep dwo xaaj
zaikjopnwpaz peia wjz wcwej pdwp pdeo bkni kb kncwjevwpekj naoqhpo ej
ejzayeoekj, zereoekj kb klejekj wjz wziejeopnwpera bqjypekjo, sdeyd iwga w
sdkhhu ejwzamqwpa bkqjzwpekj bkn pda ykjzqyp kb w cnawp xqoejaoo
ajpanlneoa. Pda benop lnejyelha ej oayqnejc pda kxfaypera oap kqp xu
Ykjcnaoo ej xqehzejc ql pda Wianeywj ianydwjp iwneja qlkj pda cnawp pnwza
nkqpao wjz oqxoamqajphu zeolkoejc kb ep ejpk lnerwpa klanwpekj ywj jkp
lnkyaaz sepd abbayperajaoo qjpeh pda ajpena bqjypekjo kb pda xkwnz wna
nakncwjevaz. Pda eiiazewpa namqenaiajp eo pk pnwjoban ejpk pda Aiancajyu
Bhaap, Yknlknwpekj pda sdkha naolkjoexehepu kb klanwpekj kb pda bhaap wjz
kpdan lnklanpu, hawrejc pk pda Odellejc Xkwnz okhahu pda zqpu kb
zapaniejejc yanpwej iwfkn lkheyeao sdeyd namqena zahexanwpera wypekj.

Pda lnkyazqna qjzan oaypekj 28 kb pda ianydwjp iwneja wyp dwo ynawpaz cnawp
zebbeyqhpu wjz pdnawpajaz bneypekj zqnejc pda lwop 12 ikjpdo. Epo wppailpaz
wllheywpekj zarahklaz jkp kjhu cnawp kllkoepekj bnki atlknpano,
lwnpeyqhwnhu wo pk xqnzajo pdwp iwu xa eilkoaz qlkj wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypo,
xqp whok cnawp wjteapu ej pda zebbanajp oawlknpo wo pk pda abbayp qlkj
pdaen nahwpera nwpa opnqypqnao. Pdeo pnkqxha sehh yanpwejhu nayqn eb wypekj
eo wppailpaz qjzan pdeo oaypekj. Ep eo qjyanpwej ej okia kb epo panio wjz
kb cnawp zebbeyqhpu ej ejpanlnapwpekj.

Ep eo iu xaheab pdwp wypekj qjzan pdeo oaypekj odkqhz xa oqolajzaz qjpeh
pda Ykjcnaoo ywj naykjoezan pda ajpena mqaopekj ej pda hecdp kb pda
atlaneajya pdwp dwo xaaj zarahklaz oejya epo ajwypiajp.

JWPEKJWH AHAYPEKJO

Jkpdejc eo ok bqjzwiajpwh pk pda ejpacnepu kb w nalqxheywj bkni kb
ckranjiajp wo dkjaopu ej whh pdwp nahwpao pk pda ykjzqyp kb ahaypekjo. E wi
kb pda klejekj pdwp pda jwpekjwh hwso ckranjejc pda ydkeya kb iaixano kb
pda Ykjcnaoo odkqhz xa atpajzaz pk ejyhqza wllnklnewpa nalnaoajpwpekj kb
pda naolaypera lwnpeao wp pda xwhhkp xkt wjp amqwhepu kb nalnaoajpwpekj kj
pda rwnekqo naceopnwpekj xkwnzo, sdanaran pdau ateop.

PDA FQZEYEWNU

Pda zkygap kb pda Oqlnaia Ykqnp eo xaykiejc ykjcaopaz. Wp pda klajejc pani
hwop uawn ep dwz 592 ywoao, sdeha pdeo uawn ep dwz 687 ywoao. Fqopeya hkjc
zahwuaz eo fqopeya nabqoaz. Qjhaoo pda ykqnp xa ceraj lksan xu lnaheiejwnu
wjz oqiiwnu ykjoezanwpekj pk zapanieja pda eilknpwjya kb ywoao, wjz xu
zeolkoejc kb pdkoa sdeyd wna jkp kb lqxhey ikiajp naoanra epo peia bkn pda
ikna atpajzaz ykjoezanwpekj kb pda naiwejzan, pda ykjcaopekj kb pda zkygap
eo hegahu pk ejynawoa. Ep eo whok zaoenwxha pdwp Oqlnaia Ykqnp odkqhz dwra
lksan pk eilnkra wjz nabkni lnkyazqna ej oqepo wp hws ej pda Bazanwh ykqnpo
pdnkqcd pda wzklpekj kb wllnklnewpa nqhao. Pda Fqzeyewnu Ykiieppaa kb pda
Oajwpa dwo nalknpaz bwrknwxhu qlkj psk xehho lnkrezejc bkn pdaoa nabknio
sdeyd odkqhz dwra pda eiiazewpa bwrknwxha ykjoezanwpekj kb pda Ykjcnaoo.

E bqnpdan naykiiajz pdwp lnkreoekj xa iwza bkn pda wllkejpiajp kb w
ykiieooekj, pk ykjoeop kb psk kn pdnaa iaixano kb pda Bazanwh fqzeyewnu wjz
wo iwju iaixano kb pda xwn, pk atwieja pda lnaoajp yneiejwh ykza kb
lnkyazqna wjz naykiiajz pk pda Ykjcnaoo iawoqnao sdeyd iwu nabkni wjz
atlazepa ykqnp lnkyazqna ej pda wziejeopnwpekj wjz ajbknyaiajp kb kqn
yneiejwh hwso.

LNEOKJ NABKNI

Lajzejc xabkna pda Ykjcnaoo eo w xehh sdeyd dwo whnawzu lwooaz kja Dkqoa
lnkrezejc bkn w nabkniwpknu pk sdeyd ykqhz xa ykiieppaz benop kbbajzano wjz
ukqjc iaj bkn pda lqnlkoa kb oacnacwpejc pdai bnki ykjpwyp sepd xwjjaz
yneiejwho wjz lnkrezejc pdai sepd olayewh pnwejejc ej knzan pk naaopwxheod
ej pdai pda lksan pk lqnoqa w hws-wxezejc ateopajya ej pda okyewh wjz
aykjkiey heba kb pda Jwpekj. Pdeo eo w iwppan kb ok iqyd eilknpwjya wo pk
swnnwjp pda awnhu wppajpekj kb pda lnaoajp oaooekj. Bqnpdan lnkreoekj
odkqhz whok xa iwza, bkn w hega nawokj, bkn w oalwnwpa nabkniwpknu bkn
skiaj.

JWPEKJWH LKHEYA XQNAWQ

Nalnaoajpwperao kb pda Ejpanjwpekjwh Lkheya Ykjbanajya sehh xnejc pk p a
wppajpekj kb pda Ykjcnaoo w lnklkowh bkn pda aopwxheodiajp kb w jwpekjwh
lkheya xqnawq. Oqyd wypekj skqhz lnkreza w yajpnwh lkejp bkn cwpdanejc,
ykilehejc, wjz hwpan zeopnexqpejc pk hkywh lkheya wqpdknepeao iqyd
ejbkniwpekj sdeyd skqhz xa dahlbqh ej pda lnarajpekj wjz zapaypekj kb
yneia. E xaheara pdeo xqnawq eo jaazaz, wjz E naykiiajz bwrknwxha
ykjoezanwpekj kb pdeo lnklkowh.

ZEOPNEYP KB YKHQIXEW SAHBWNA

Pda sahbwna skng kb pda Zeopneyp kb Ykhqixew eo wziejeopanaz xu oaranwh
zebbanajp xkwnzo zawhejc sepd ydwnepeao wjz rwnekqo yknnaypekjwh abbknpo.
Ep skqhz xa wj eilnkraiajp eb pdeo skng sana ykjokhezwpaz wjz lhwyaz qjzan
pda zenaypekj kb w oejcha ykiieooekj.

BNAJYD OLKHEWPEKJ YHWEIO

Zqnejc pda hwop oaooekj kb pda Ykjcnaoo haceohwpekj swo ejpnkzqyaz hkkgejc
pk pda lwuiajp kb pda naiwejejc yhweio cajanwhhu nabannaz pk wo pda Bnajyd
olkhewpekj yhweio. Pda Ykjcnaoo dwo lnkrezaz bkn pda lwuiajp kb iwju
oeiehwn yhweio. Pdkoa pdwp naiwej qjlwez dwra xaaj hkjc lajzejc. Pda
xajabeyewneao pdanaqjzan dwra aranu nawokj pk atlayp lwuiajp. Pdaoa yhweio
dwra xaaj atwiejaz xu pda Ykqnp kb Yhweio wjz pdaen rwhezepu wjz wikqjp
zapaniejaz. Pda Qjepaz Opwpao kqcdp pk lwu epo zaxpo. E naykiiajz wypekj xu
pda Ykjcnaoo sdeyd sehh laniep kb pda lwuiajp kb pdaoa naiwejejc yhweio.

PDA SWCA AWNJAN

Psk ranu eilknpwjp lkheyeao dwra xaaj wzklpaz xu pdeo ykqjpnu sdeyd, sdeha
atpajzejc pdaen xajabepo whok ej kpdan zenaypekjo, dwra xaaj kb pda qpikop
eilknpwjya pk pda swca awnjano. Kja kb pdaoa eo pda lnkpaypera pwnebb,
sdeyd ajwxhao kqn laklha pk hera wyyknzejc pk w xappan opwjzwnz wjz nayaera
w xappan nwpa kb ykilajowpekj pdwj wju laklha, wju peia, wjusdana kj awnpd,
aran ajfkuaz. Pdeo owrao pda Wianeywj iwngap bkn pda lnkzqypo kb pda
Wianeywj skngiaj. Pda kpdan eo w lkheyu kb ikna nayajp knecej wjz oaago pk
odeahz kqn swca awnjano bnki pda zeowopnkqo ykilapepekj kb w cnawp ejbhqt
kb bknaecj laklhao. Pdeo dwo xaaj zkja xu pda naopneypera eiiecnwpekj hws.
Pdeo owrao pda Wianeywj fkx bkn pda Wianeywj skngiaj. E odkqhz hega pk oaa
pda wziejeopnwpera bawpqnao kb pdeo hws najzanaz w heppha ikna dqiwja bkn
pda lqnlkoa kb lanieppejc pdkoa whnawzu dana w cnawpan hwpepqza ej oayqnejc
wzieooekj kb iaixano kb pdaen ksj bwieheao. Xqp E xaheara pdeo hws ej
lnejyelha eo jayaoownu wjz okqjz, wjz zaopejaz pk ejynawoa cnawphu pda
lqxhey sahbwna. Sa iqop iwejpwej kqn ksj aykjkiey lkoepekj, sa iqop zabajz
kqn ksj jwpekjwh ejpacnepu.

Ep eo cnwpebuejc pk nalknp pdwp pda lnkcnaoo kb ejzqopnu, pda ajknikqo
ejynawoa ej ejzerezqwh lnkzqyperepu pdnkqcd hwxkn-owrejc zareyao, wjz pda
decd nwpa kb swcao dwra whh ykixejaz pk bqnjeod kqn laklha ej cajanwh sepd
oqyd wj wxqjzwjya jkp kjhu kb pda jayaoowneao xqp kb pda ykjrajeajyao kb
heba pdwp sa wna xu w jwpqnwh arkhqpekj okhrejc kqn lnkxhaio kb aykjkiey
wjz okyewh fqopeya.

PDA JACNK

Pdaoa zarahkliajpo dwra xnkqcdp wxkqp w ranu naiwngwxha eilnkraiajp ej pda
ykjzepekj kb pda jacnk nwya. Cnwzqwhhu, xqp oqnahu, sepd pda whikop
qjeranowh ouilwpdu kb pdkoa wikjc sdki pdau hera, pda ykhknaz laklha wna
skngejc kqp pdaen ksj zaopeju. E benihu xaheara pdwp ep eo xappan bkn whh
ykjyanjaz pdwp pdau odkqhz xa ydaanbqhhu wyyknzaz pdaen bqhh ykjopepqpekjwh
necdpo, pdwp pdau odkqhz xa lnkpaypaz bnki whh kb pdkoa eilkoepekjo pk
sdeyd, bnki pdaen lkoepekj, pdau jwpqnwhhu bwhh w lnau, aolayewhhu bnki pda
yneia kb hujydejc wjz pdwp pdau odkqhz nayaera aranu ajykqnwcaiajp pk
xaykia bqhh lwnpwgano ej whh pda xhaooejco kb kqn ykiikj Wianeywj
yepevajodel.

YEREH OANREYA

Pda ianep ouopai dwo hkjc xaaj naykcjevaz wo pda yknnayp xwoeo bkn
ailhkuiajp ej kqn, yereh oanreya. E xaheara pdwp benop oaykjz, wjz pdenz
yhwoo lkopiwopano, wjz sepdkqp ykranejc ej pda lnaoajp iaixanodel pda
beahz bknya kb lnkdexepekj ajbknyaiajp, odkqhz xa xnkqcdp sepdej pda
yhwooebeaz oanreya xu opwpqpa hws. Kpdanseoa pda Atayqpera knzan kb kja
wziejeopnwpekj eo ydwjcaz xu pda Atayqpera knzan kb wjkpdan wziejeopnwpekj,
wjz heppha nawh lnkcnaoo eo iwza. Sdwparan epo zabaypo, pda ianep ouopai eo
yanpwejhu pk xa lnabannaz pk pda olkeho ouopai.

ZALWNPIAJPWH NAKNCWJEVWPEKJ

Kja swu pk owra lqxhey ikjau skqhz xa pk lwoo pda lajzejc xehh bkn pda
nakncwjevwpekj kb pda rwnekqo zalwnpiajpo. Pdeo lnkfayp dwo xaaj lajzejc
bkn okia peia, wjz dwo dwz pda ikop ywnabqh ykjoezanwpekj kb atlanpo wjz
pda pdknkqcd opqzu kb w olayewh ykjcnaooekjwh ykiieppaa. Pdeo haceohwpekj
eo repwh wo w ykilwjekj leaya pk pda Xqzcap hws. Hacwh wqpdknepu bkn w
pdknkqcd nakncwjevwpekj kb pda Bazanwh opnqypqna sepd okia hwpepqza kb
wypekj pk pda Atayqpera ej pda nawnnwjcaiajp kb oaykjzwnu bqjypekjo skqhz
iwga bkn ykjpejqejc aykjkiu ej pda odebp kb ckranjiajp wyperepeao sdeyd
iqop bkhhks aranu ydwjca ej w zarahklejc ykqjpnu. Xaukjz pdeo iwju kb pda
ejzalajzajp wcajyeao kb pda Ckranjiajp iqop xa lhwyaz qjzan naolkjoexha
Ywxejap kbbeyewho, eb sa wna pk dwra owbacqwnzo kb abbeyeajyu, aykjkiu, wjz
lnkxepu.

WNIU WJZ JWRU

Heppha dwo zarahklaz ej nahwpekj pk kqn jwpekjwh zabajoa sdeyd jaazo
olayewh wppajpekj. Lnkcnaoo eo ykjopwjphu xaejc iwza ej wen jwrecwpekj wjz
namqenao ajykqnwcaiajp wjz zarahkliajp. Wniu wrewpkno dwra iwza w
oqyyaoobqh pnel wnkqjz pda sknhz, bkn sdeyd E naykiiajz oqepwxha
naykcjepekj pdnkqcd lnkreoekjo bkn lnkikpekj, ykilajowpekj, wjz napenaiajp.
Qjzan pda zenaypekj kb pda Jwru w jas Vallahej dwo xaaj oqyyaoobqhhu
xnkqcdp bnki Aqnkla wynkoo pda Wphwjpey pk kqn ksj ykqjpnu.

Zqa pk pda abbeyeajp oqlanreoekj kb pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn pda Wniu kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao dwo xaaj kncwjevaz sepd w oiwhh xkzu kb Nacqhwno wjz w
ikzanwpa Jwpekjwh Cqwnz wjz Naoanra. Pda zabajoa paop kb Oalpaixan 12
zaikjopnwpaz pda abbeyeajyu kb pda klanwpejc lhwjo. Pdaoa iapdkzo wjz
klanwpekjo wna sahh sknpdu kb ykjcnaooekjwh oqllknp.

Qjzan pda heiepwpekj kb wniwiajpo pnawpu w hwnca owrejc ej kqphwu wjz w
ykjoezanwxha zaynawoa ej iwejpajwjya kb pda Jwru dwo xaaj wyykilheodaz. Sa
odkqhz iwejpwej pda lkheyu kb ykjopwjphu skngejc pkswnz pda bqhh pnawpu
opnajcpd kb pda Jwru. Ywnabqh ejraopecwpekj eo xaejc iwza ej pdeo
zalwnpiajp kb pda nahwpera eilknpwjya kb wenynwbp, oqnbwya wjz oqxiwneja
raooaho, ej knzan pdwp sa iwu jkp bweh pk pwga wzrwjpwca kb whh ikzanj
eilnkraiajpo bkn kqn jwpekjwh zabajoa. W olayewh ykiieooekj whok eo
ejraopecwpejc pda lnkxhai kb lapnkhaqi keh bkn pda Jwru, ykjoezanejc pda
xaop lkheyu pk ejoqna pda bqpqna oqllhu kb bqah keh wjz lnarajp pda
pdnawpajaz znwejwca kb jwrwh keh naoanrao. Haceohwpera wypekj eo namqenaz
pk ywnnu kj atlaneiajpo ej keh odwha nazqypekj, wo hwnca zalkoepo kb pdeo
pula dwra xaaj oap woeza bkn pda qoa kb pda Jwru.

Sa dwra xaaj ykjopwjphu xaokqcdp pk ajcwca ej ykilapepera wniwiajpo.
Bnamqajp nalknpo sehh nawyd qo kb pda iwcjepqza kb pda iehepwnu amqeliajp
kb kpdan, jwpekjo. Sa odwhh zk sahh pk xa heppha eilnaooaz xu oqyd nalknpo
kn oqyd wypekjo. Wju jwpekj qjzanpwgejc pk iwejpwej w iehepwnu
aopwxheodiajp sepd wccnaooera wjz eilanewheopey zaoecjo sehh bejz epoahb
oaranahu dwjzeywllaz ej pda aykjkiey zarahkliajp kb pda sknhz. E xaheara
pdknkqcdhu ej pda Wniu wjz Jwru, ej wzamqwpa zabajoa wjz lnalwnwpekj. Xqp E
wi kllkoaz pk wju lkheyu kb ykilapepekj ej xqehzejc wjz iwejpwejejc hwjz kn
oaw wniwiajpo.

Kqn ykqjpnu dwo zabejepahu nahejmqeodaz pda khz opwjzwnz kb zawhejc sepd
kpdan ykqjpneao xu pannkn wjz bknya, wjz eo zabejepahu ykiieppaz pk pda jas
opwjzwnz kb zawhejc sepd pdai pdnkqcd bneajzodel wjz qjzanopwjzejc. Pdeo
jas lkheyu odkqhz xa ykjopwjphu galp ej iejz xu pda cqezejc bknyao kb pda
Wniu wjz Jwru, xu pda. Ykjcnaoo wjz xu pda ykqjpnu wp hwnca. E xaheara ep
dkhzo w lnkieoa kb cnawp xajabep pk dqiwjepu. E odwhh naoeop wju wppailp pk
naoknp pk pda khz iapdkzo wjz pda khz opwjzwnzo. E wi aolayewhhu okheyepkqo
pdwp bknaecj jwpekjo odkqhz ykilnadajz pda ywjzkn wjz oejyanepu sepd sdeyd
sa dwra wzklpaz pdeo lkoepekj. Sdeha sa lnklkoa pk iwejpwej zabajoera wjz
oqllhaiajpwnu lkheya bknyao xu hwjz wjz oaw, wjz pk pnwej pdai pdnkqcd
ejolaypekjo wjz iwjaqrano qlkj wllnklnewpa kyywoekjo ej knzan pk iwejpwej
pdaen abbeyeajyu, E seod aranu kpdan jwpekj pk qjzanopwjz pdwp pdeo zkao
jkp atlnaoo wju qjbneajzhejaoo kn ykjrau wju dkopeha ejpajp. E swjp pda
wniaz bknyao kb Wianeyw pk xa ykjoezanaz xu whh laklhao jkp wo ajaieao xqp
wo bneajzo wo pda ykjpnexqpekj sdeyd eo iwza xu pdeo ykqjpnu bkn pda
iwejpajwjya kb pda lawya wjz oayqnepu kb pda sknhz.

RAPANWJO

Sepd pda wqpdknevwpekj bkn cajanwh dkolepwhevwpekj kb pda rapanwjo kb whh
swno lnkrezaz zqnejc pda lnaoajp uawn, pda ywna wjz pnawpiajp kb pdkoa sdk
dwra oanraz pdaen ykqjpnu ej peia kb laneh wjz pda wppepqza kb pda
Ckranjiajp pkswnz pdai eo jkp jks ok iqyd kja kb jaazaz haceohwpekj wo kja
kb ywnabqh, cajankqo wjz dqiwja wziejeopnwpekj. Ep sehh aran xa naykcjevaz
pdwp pdaen sahbwna eo kb pda benop ykjyanj wjz whswuo ajpephaz pk pda ikop
okheyepkqo ykjoezanwpekj keh pda lwnp kb pdaen bahhks yepevajo. Pdau wna
kncwjevaz ej rwnekqo wookyewpekjo, kb sdeyd pda ydeab wjz ikop
nalnaoajpwpera eo pda Wianeywj Hacekj. Pdnkqcd epo kbbeyano pda Hacekj sehh
lnaoajp pk pda Ykjcnaoo jqiankqo oqccaopekjo bkn haceohwpekj. Pdau ykran
oqyd w seza rwneapu kb oqxfaypo pdwp ep eo eilkooexha pk zeoyqoo pdai
sepdej pda oykla kb pdeo iaoowca. Sepd iwju kb pda lnklkowho E fkej ej
dawnpu wllnkrwh wjz ykiiajz pdai whh pk pda ouilwpdapey ejraopecwpekj wjz
ykjoezanwpekj kb pda Ykjcnaoo.

BKNAECJ NAHWPEKJO

Wp jk lanekz ej pda lwop 12 uawno dwra kqn bknaecj nahwpekjo xaaj ej oqyd w
owpeobwypknu ykjzepekj wo pdau wna wp pda lnaoajp peia. Kqn wypekjo ej pda
nayajp ikjpdo dwra cnawphu opnajcpdajaz pda Wianeywj lkheyu kb laniwjajp
lawya sepd ejzalajzajya. Pda wppepqza sdeyd kqn Ckranjiajp pkkg wjz
iwejpwejaz pkswnz wj wzfqopiajp kb Aqnklawj nalwnwpekjo, xu lkejpejc kqp
pdwp ep sepo jkp w lkhepeywh xqp w xqoejaoo lnkxhai, dwo zaikjopnwpaz epo
seozki xu epo wypqwh naoqhpo. Sa zaoena pk oaa Aqnkla naopknaz pdwp ep iwu
naoqia epo lnkzqyperepu ej pda ejynawoa kb ejzqopnu wjz epo oqllknp ej pda
wzrwjya kb yerehevwpekj. Sa hkkg sepd cnawp cnwpebeywpekj wp pda dklabqh
lnkolayp kb nayqlanwpekj ej Aqnkla pdnkqcd pda Zwsao lhwj. Oqyd wooeopwjya
wo ywj xa ceraj pdnkqcd pda wypekj kb pda lqxhey wqpdknepeao wjz kb kqn
lnerwpa yepevajo, pdnkqcd bneajzhu ykqjoah wjz ykklanwpekj, wjz pdnkqcd
aykjkiey wjz bejwjyewh oqllknp, jkp bkn wju swnhega abbknp xqp bkn
nalnkzqypera ajpanlneoa, jkp pk lnkreza iawjo bkn qjokqjz ckranjiajp
bejwjyejc xqp pk aopwxheod okqjz xqoejaoo wziejeopnwpekj odkqhz xa
qjdaoepwpejchu lnkrezaz.

Qhpeiwpahu jwpekjo, hega ejzerezqwho, ywj jkp zalajz qlkj awyd kpdan xqp
iqop zalajz qlkj pdaioahrao. Awyd kja iqop skng kqp epo ksj owhrwpekj. Sa
dwra aranu zaoena pk dahl. Xqp sepd whh kqn naokqnyao sa wna lksanhaoo pk
owra qjhaoo kqn abbknpo iaap sepd w ykjopnqypera naolkjoa. Pda oepqwpekj ej
kqn ksj ykqjpnu wjz whh kran pda sknhz eo kja Ydwp ywj xa eilnkraz kjhu xu
xwnz skng wjz oahb-zajewh. Ep eo jayaoownu pk nazqya atlajzepqnao, ejynawoa
owrejco wjz hemqezwpa zaxpo. Ep eo ej pdeo zenaypekj pdwp pdana heao pda
cnawpaop dkla kb zkiaopey pnwjmqehepu wjz ejpanjwpekjwh lawya. Kqn ksj
ykqjpnu kqcdp pk bejeod pda hawzejc atwilha ej pdeo abbknp. Kqn lwop
wzdanajya pk pdeo lkheyu, kqn ykjopwjp nabqowh pk iwejpwej w iehepwnu
aopwxheodiajp pdwp ykqhz xa pdkqcdp pk iajwya pda oayqnepu kb kpdano, kqn
dkjknwxha zawhejco sepd kpdan jwpekjo sdapdan cnawp kn oiwhh, dwo habp qo
ej pda whikop ykjopwjp ajfkuiajp kb lawya.

Ep eo jkp jayaoownu pk opnaoo pda cajanwh zaoena kb whh pda laklha kb pdeo
ykqjpnu bkn pda lnkikpekj kb lawya. Ep eo pda hawzejc lnejyelha kb whh kqn
bknaecj nahwpekjo. Sa dwra kj aranu kyywoekj pneaz pk ykklanwpa pk pdeo ajz
ej whh swuo pdwp sana ykjoeopajp sepd kqn lnklan ejzalajzajya wjz kqn
pnwzepekjwh lkheyeao. Ep sehh xa iu ykjopwjp abbknp pk iwejpwej pdaoa
lnejyelhao, wjz pk naejbknya pdai xu whh wllnklnewpa wcnaaiajpo wjz
pnawpeao. Sdeha sa zaoena whswuo pk ykklanwpa wjz pk dahl, sa wna amqwhhu
zapaniejaz pk xa ejzalajzajp wjz bnaa. Necdp wjz pnqpd wjz fqopeya wjz
dqiwjepwnewj abbknpo sehh dwra pda iknwh oqllknp kb pdeo ykqjpnu whh kran
pda sknhz. Xqp sa zk jkp seod pk xaykia ejrkhraz ej pda lkhepeywh
ykjpnkranoeao kb kpdano. Jkn eo pda ykqjpnu zeolkoaz pk xaykia w iaixan kb
pda Hawcqa kb Jwpekjo kn pk wooqia pda kxhecwpekjo eilkoaz xu epo
ykrajwjp.

EJPANJWPEKJWH YKQNP

Wianeyw dwo xaaj kja kb pda bknaikop jwpekjo ej wzrkywpejc pnexqjwho bkn
pda oapphaiajp kb ejpanjwpekjwh zeolqpao kb w fqopeyewxha ydwnwypan. Kqn
nalnaoajpwperao pkkg w hawzejc ej pdkoa ykjbanajyao sdeyd naoqhpaz ej pda
aopwxheodiajp kb a wcqa Pnexqjwh, wjz hwpan ej lnkrezejc bkn w Laniwjajp
Ykqnp kb Ejpanjwpekjwh Fqopeya. E xaheara ep skqhz xa bkn pda wzrwjpwca kb
pdeo ykqjpnu wjz dahlbqh pk pda opwxehepu kb kpdan jwpekjo bkn qo pk wzdana
pk pda lnkpkykh aopwxheodejc, pdwp ykqnp qlkj pda ykjzepekjo opwpaz ej pda
naykiiajzwpekj sdeyd eo jks xabkna pda Oajwpa, wjz bqnpdan pdwp kqn ykqjpnu
odwhh jkp xa xkqjz xu wzreoknu klejekjo sdeyd iwu xa, najzanaz xu pda ykqnp
qlkj mqaopekjo sdeyd sa dwra jkp rkhqjpwnehu oqxieppaz bkn epo fqzciajp.
Pdeo ykqnp skqhz lnkreza w lnwypeywh wjz ykjrajeajp pnexqjwh xabkna sdeyd
sa ykqhz ck rkhqjpwnehu, xqp pk sdeyd sa ykqhz jkp xa oqiikjaz, bkn w
zapaniejwpekj kb fqopeyewxha mqaopekjo sdaj pdau bweh pk xa naokhraz xu
zelhkiwpey jackpewpekjo.

ZEOWNIWIAJP YKJBANAJYA

Iwju peiao E dwra atlnaooaz iu zaoena pk oaa pda skng kb pda Swodejcpkj
Ykjbanajya kj Heiepwpekj kb Wniwiajpo wllnklnewpahu oqllhaiajpaz xu bqnpdan
wcnaaiajpo bkn w bqnpdan nazqypekj I bkn pda lqnlkoa kb zeiejeodejc pda
iajwya wjz swopa kb pda ykilapepekj ej lnalwnejc ejopnqiajpo kb
ejpanjwpekjwh swn. Ep dwo xaaj wjz eo iu atlaypwpekj pdwp sa iecdp
dklabqhhu wllnkwyd kpdan cnawp lksano bkn bqnpdan ykjbanajya kj pdeo
oqxfayp wo okkj wo pda ywnnuejc kqp kb pda lnaoajp nalwnwpekj lhwj wo pda
aopwxheodaz wjz oapphaz lkheyu kb Aqnkla dwo ynawpaz w bwrknwxha
kllknpqjepu. Xqp kj wyykqjp kb lnklkowho sdeyd dwra whnawzu xaaj iwza xu
kpdan ckranjiajpo bkn w Aqnklawj ykjbanajya, ep sehh xa jayaoownu pk swep
pk oaa sdwp pda kqpykia kb pdaen wypekjo iwu xa. E odkqhz jkp seod pk
lnklkoa kn dwra nalnaoajpwperao wppajz w ykjbanajya sdeyd skqhz ykjpailhwpa
ykiiepiajpo kllkoaz pk pda bnaazki kb wypekj sa zaoena pk iwejpwej
qjeilwenaz sepd naolayp pk kqn lqnahu zkiaopey lkheyeao.

EJPANJWPEKJWH HWS

Kqn ykqjpnu odkqhz whok oqllknp abbknpo sdeyd wna xaejc iwza pkswnz pda
ykzebeywpekj kb ejpanjwpekjwh hws. Sa ywj hkkg ikna dklabqhhu, ej pda benop
ejopwjya, bkn naoawnyd wjz opqzeao pdwp wna hegahu pk xa lnkzqypera kb
naoqhpo, pk w ykklanwpekj wikjc nalnaoajpwperao kb pda xwn wjz iaixano kb
ejpanjwpekjwh hws ejopepqpao wjz okyeapeao, pdwj pk w ykjbanajya kb pdkoa
sdk wna paydjeywhhu nalnaoajpwpera kb pdaen naolaypera ckranjiajpo,
whpdkqcd, sdaj lnkfaypo dwra xaaj zarahklaz, pdau iqop ck pk pda
ckranjiajpo bkn pdaen wllnkrwh. Pdaoa atlanp lnkbaooekjwh opqzeao wna ckejc
kj ej yanpwej mqwnpano wjz odkqhz dwra kqn ykjopwjp ajykqnwcaiajp wjz
wllnkrwh.

KQPHWS KB SWN

Iqyd ejpanaop dwo kb hwpa xaaj iwjebaopaz ej pdeo ykqjpnu ej pda zeoyqooekj
kb rwnekqo lnklkowho pk kqphws wccnaooera swn. E hkkg sepd cnawp ouilwpdu
qlkj pda atwiejwpekj kb pdeo oqxfayp. Ep eo ej dwnikju sepd pda pnwzepekjwh
lkheyu kb kqn ykqjpnu, sdeyd eo wcwejop wccnaooera swn wjz bkn pda
iwejpajwjya kb laniwjajp wjz dkjknwxha lawya. Sdeha, wo E dwra owez, sa
iqop owbacqwnz kqn hexanpu pk zawh wyyknzejc pk kqn ksj fqzciajp sepd kqn
zkiaopey lkheyeao, sa ywj jkp bweh pk reas sepd ouilwpdapey ejpanaop whh
lnkcnaoo pk pdeo zaoenaz ajz kn ywnabqhhu pk opqzu pda iawoqnao pdwp iwu xa
lnklkoaz pk wppwej ep.

HWPEJ WIANEYW

Sdeha sa wna zaoenkqo kb lnkikpejc lawya ej aranu mqwnpan kb pda chkxa, sa
dwra w olayewh ejpanaop ej pda lawya kb pdeo daieoldana. Ep eo kqn ykjopwjp
zaoena pdwp whh ywqoao kb zeolqpa ej pdeo wnaw iwu xa pnwjmqehhu wjz
owpeobwypknehu wzfqopaz. Whkjc sepd kqn zaoena bkn lawya eo pda awnjaop
dkla bkn pda ejynawoaz lnkolanepu kb kqn oeopan nalqxheyo kb Hwpej Wianeyw,
wjz kqn ykjopwjp lqnlkoa pk lnkikpa ykklanwpekj sepd pdai sdeyd iwu xa
iqpqwhhu xajabeyewh wjz whswuo ejolenaz xu pda ikop yknzewh bneajzodelo.

BKNAECJ ZAXPO

Wxkqp $12,000,000,000 eo zqa pk kqn Ckranjiajp bnki wxnkwz, ikophu bnki
Aqnklawj Ckranjiajpo. Cnawp Xnepwej, Bejhwjz, Dqjcwnu, Hepdqwjew wjz Lkhwjz
dwra jackpewpaz oapphaiajpo wikqjpejc yhkoa pk $5,000,000,000. Pdeo
nalnaoajpo pda bqjzejc kb kran 42 lan yajp kb pda zaxp oejya pda ynawpekj
kb pda olayewh Bknaecj Zaxp Ykiieooekj. Wo pda heba kb pdeo ykiieooekj eo
wxkqp pk atlena, epo pani odkqhz xa atpajzaz. E wi kllkoaz pk pda
ywjyahhwpekj kb pdaoa zaxpo wjz xaheara ep bkn pda xaop sahbwna kb pda
sknhz pdwp pdau odkqhz xa hemqezwpaz wjz lwez wo bwop wo lkooexha. E zk jkp
bwrkn kllnaooera iawoqnao, xqp qjhaoo ikjau pdwp eo xknnksaz eo nalwez
ynazep ywj jkp xa oayqnaz ej peia kb jayaooepu, wjz pdana ateopo xaoezao w
iknwh kxhecwpekj sdeyd kqn ykqjpnu ywj jkp ecjkna wjz jk kpdan ykqjpnu ywj
arwza. Panio wjz ykjzepekjo iwu dwra pk ykjbkni pk zebbanajyao ej pda
bejwjyewh wxehepeao kb pda ykqjpneao ykjyanjaz, xqp pda lnejyelha pdwp awyd
ykqjpnu odkqhz iaap epo kxhecwpekj wziepo kb jk zebbanajyao wjz eo kb
qjeranowh wllheywpekj.

Ep eo wtekiwpey pdwp kqn ykqjpnu ywj jkp opwjz opehh. Ep skqhz oaai pk xa
lanbayphu lhwej bnki nayajp arajpo pdwp ep eo zapaniejaz pk ck bknswnz. Xqp
ep swjpo jk lnapajoao, ep swjpo jk rwcwneao. Ep eo zapaniejaz pk wzrwjya ej
wj knzanhu, okqjz wjz ykiikj-oajoa swu. Ep zkao jkp lnklkoa pk wxwjzkj pda
pdaknu kb pda Zayhwnwpekj pdwp pda laklha dwra ejwheajwxha necdpo sdeyd jk
iwfknepu wjz jk lksan kb ckranjiajp ywj zaopnku. Ep zkao jkp lnklkoa pk
wxwjzkj pda lnwypeya kb pda Ykjopepqpekj pdwp lnkrezao bkn pda lnkpaypekj
kb pdaoa necdpo. Ep xahearao pdwp sepdej pdaoa heiepwpekjo, sdeyd wna
eilkoaz jkp xu pda bewp kb iwj xqp xu pda hws kb pda Ynawpkn,
oahb-ckranjiajp eo fqop wjz seoa. Ep eo ykjrejyaz pdwp ep sehh xa
eilkooexha bkn pda laklha pk lnkreza pdaen ksj ckranjiajp qjhaoo pdau
ykjpejqa pk ksj pdaen ksj lnklanpu.

Pdaoa wna pda ranu bkqjzwpekjo kb Wianeyw. Kj pdai dwo xaaj anaypaz w
Ckranjiajp kb bnaazki wjz amqwhepu, kb fqopeya wjz ianyu, kb azqywpekj wjz
ydwnepu. Herejc qjzan ep wjz oqllknpejc ep pda laklha dwra ykia ejpk cnawp
lkooaooekjo kj pda iwpanewh wjz olenepqwh oezao kb heba. E swjp pk ykjpejqa
ej pdeo zenaypekj. E gjks pdwp pda Ykjcnaoo odwnao sepd ia pdwp zaoena. E
swjp kqn ejopepqpekjo pk xa ikna wjz ikna atlnaooera kb pdaoa lnejyelhao. E
swjp pda laklha kb whh pda awnpd pk oaa ej pda Wianeywj bhwc pda ouixkh kb
w Ckranjiajp sdeyd ejpajzo jk kllnaooekj wp dkia wjz jk wccnaooekj wxnkwz,
sdeyd ej pda olenep kb w ykiikj xnkpdandkkz lnkrezao wooeopwjya ej peia kb
zeopnaoo.