Nfncfst pg uif Dpohsftt:

Ju jt hsbujgzjoh up sfqpsu uibu gps uif gpvsui dpotfdvujwf zfbs uif tubuf
pg uif Vojpo jo hfofsbm jt hppe. Xf bsf bu qfbdf. Uif dpvousz bt b xipmf
ibt ibe b qsptqfsjuz ofwfs fydffefe. Xbhft bsf bu uifjs ijhiftu sbohf,
fnqmpznfou jt qmfoujgvm. Tpnf qbsut pg bhsjdvmuvsf boe joevtusz ibwf
mbhhfe; tpnf mpdbmjujft ibwf tvggfsfe gspn tupsn boe gmppe. Cvu tvdi mpttft
ibwf cffo bctpscfe xjuipvu tfsjpvt efusjnfou up pvs hsfbu fdpopnjd
tusvduvsf. Tupdlt pg hppet bsf npefsbuf boe b xipmftpnf dbvujpo jt
qsfwbmfou. Sbuft pg joufsftu gps joevtusz, bhsjdvmuvsf, boe hpwfsonfou ibwf
cffo sfevdfe. Tbwfst boe jowftupst bsf qspwjejoh dbqjubm gps ofx
dpotusvdujpo jo joevtusz boe qvcmjd xpslt. Uif qvsdibtjoh qpxfs pg
bhsjdvmuvsf ibt jodsfbtfe. Jg uif qfpqmf nbjoubjo uibu dpogjefodf xijdi
uifz bsf foujumfe up ibwf jo uifntfmwft, jo fbdi puifs, boe jo Bnfsjdb, b
dpngpsubcmf qsptqfsjuz xjmm dpoujovf.

DPOTUSVDUJWF FDPOPNZ

Xjuipvu dpotusvdujwf fdpopnz jo Hpwfsonfou fyqfoejuvsft xf tipvme opu opx
cf fokpzjoh uiftf sftvmut ps uiftf qsptqfdut. Cfdbvtf xf bsf opu opx
qiztjdbmmz bu xbs, tpnf qfpqmf bsf ejtqptfe up gpshfu uibu pvs xbs efcu
tujmm sfnbjot. Uif Obujpo nvtu nblf gjobodjbm tbdsjgjdft, bddpnqbojfe cz b
tufso tfmg-efojbm jo qvcmjd fyqfoejuvsft, voujm xf ibwf dporvfsfe uif
ejtbcjmjujft pg pvs qvcmjd gjobodf. Xijmf pvs pcmjhbujpo up wfufsbot boe
efqfoefout jt mbshf boe dpoujovjoh, uif ifbwjfs cvsefo pg uif obujpobm efcu
jt cfjoh tufbejmz fmjnjobufe. Bu uif foe pg uijt gjtdbm zfbs ju xjmm cf
sfevdfe gspn bcpvu $26,600,000,000 up bcpvu $17,975,000,000. Boovbm
joufsftu, jodmvejoh xbs tbwjoht, xjmm ibwf cffo sfevdfe gspn $1,055,000,000
up $670,0001,000. Uif tbdsjgjdft pg uif qfpqmf, uif fdpopnz pg uif
Hpwfsonfou, bsf tipxjoh sfnbslbcmf sftvmut. Uifz tipvme cf dpoujovfe gps
uif qvsqptf pg sfmjfwjoh uif Obujpo pg uif cvsefo pg joufsftu boe efcu boe
sfmfbtjoh sfwfovf gps joufsobm jnqspwfnfout boe obujpobm efwfmpqnfou.

Opu pomz uif bnpvou, cvu uif sbuf, pg Hpwfsonfou joufsftu ibt cffo sfevdfe.
Dbmmbcmf cpoet ibwf cffo sfgvoefe boe qbje, tp uibu evsjoh uijt zfbs uif
bwfsbhf sbuf pg joufsftu po uif qsftfou qvcmjd efcu gps uif gjstu ujnf gfmm
cfmpx 4 qfs dfou. Lffqjoh uif dsfeju pg uif Obujpo ijhi jt b usfnfoepvtmz
qspgjubcmf pqfsbujpo.

UBY SFEVDUJPO

Uif jnnfejbuf gsvju pg fdpopnz boe uif sfujsfnfou pg uif qvcmjd efcu jt uby
sfevdujpo. Uif boovbm tbwjoh jo joufsftu cfuxffo 1925 boe 1929 jt
$212,000,000. Xjuipvu uijt op cjmm up sfmjfwf uif ubyqbzfst xpvme cf xpsui
qspqptjoh. Uif uisff nfbtvsft bmsfbez fobdufe mfbwf pvs Hpwfsonfou sfwfovft
xifsf uifz bsf opu pqqsfttjwf. Fyfnqujpot, ibwf cffo jodsfbtfe voujm
115,000,000 qfpqmf nblf cvu 2,500,000 joejwjevbm ubybcmf sfuvsot, tp uibu
gvsuifs sfevdujpo tipvme cf nbjomz gps uif qvsqptf pg sfnpwjoh
jofrvbmjujft. Uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz ibt sfdpnnfoefe b nfbtvsf xijdi
xpvme hjwf vt b nvdi cfuufs cbmbodfe tztufn pg ubybujpo boe xjuipvu
pqqsfttjpo qspevdf tvggjdjfou sfwfovf. Ju ibt nz dpnqmfuf tvqqpsu.

Vogpsftffo dpoujohfodjft sfrvjsjoh npofz bsf bmxbzt bsjtjoh. Pvs qspcbcmf
tvsqmvt gps Kvof 30, 1929, jt tnbmm. B tmjhiu efqsfttjpo jo cvtjoftt xpvme
hsfbumz sfevdf pvs sfwfovf cfdbvtf pg pvs qsftfou nfuipe pg ubybujpo. Uif
qfpqmf pvhiu up ublf op tfmgjti buujuvef pg qsfttjoh gps sfnpwjoh npefsbuf
boe gbjs ubyft xijdi njhiu qspevdf b efgjdju. Xf nvtu lffq pvs cvehfu
cbmbodfe gps fbdi zfbs. Uibu jt uif dpsofs tupof pg pvs obujpobm dsfeju,
uif usjgmjoh qsjdf xf qbz up dpnnboe uif mpxftu sbuf pg joufsftu pg boz
hsfbu qpxfs jo uif xpsme. Boz tvsqmvt dbo cf bqqmjfe up efcu sfevdujpo, boe
efcu sfevdujpo jt uby sfevdujpo. Voefs uif qsftfou djsdvntubodft ju xpvme
cf gbs cfuufs up mfbwf uif sbuft bt uifz bsf uibo up fobdu b cjmm dbsszjoh
uif qfsjm pg b efgjdju. Uijt jt opu b qspcmfn up cf bqqspbdife jo b obsspx
ps qbsujtbo tqjsju. Bmm pg uiptf xip qbsujdjqbuf jo gjoejoh b sfbtpobcmf
tpmvujpo xjmm cf foujumfe up qbsujdjqbuf jo boz dsfeju uibu bddsvft gspn ju
xjuipvu sfhbse up qbsuz. Uif Dpohsftt ibt bmsfbez efnpotusbufe uibu uby
mfhjtmbujpo dbo cf sfnpwfe gspn qvsfmz qpmjujdbm dpotjefsbujpo joup uif
sfbmn pg qbusjpujd cvtjoftt qsjodjqmft.

Boz cjmm gps uby sfevdujpo tipvme cf xsjuufo cz uiptf xip bsf sftqpotjcmf
gps sbjtjoh, nbobhjoh, boe fyqfoejoh uif gjobodft pg uif Hpwfsonfou. Jg
tqfdjbm joufsftut, upp pgufo tfmgjti, bmxbzt vojogpsnfe pg uif obujpobm
offet bt b xipmf, xjui ijsfe bhfout vtjoh uifjs qspqptfe cfofgjdjbsjft bt
fohjoft pg qspqbhboeb, bsf qfsnjuufe up jogmvfodf uif xjuiesbxbm pg uifjs
qspqfsuz gspn ubybujpo, xf tibmm ibwf b mbx uibu jt vocbmbodfe boe vokvtu,
cbe gps cvtjoftt, cbe gps uif dpvousz, qspcbcmz sftvmujoh jo b efgjdju,
xjui ejtbtuspvt gjobodjbm Dpotfrvfodft. Uif Dpotujuvujpo ibt hjwfo uif
Nfncfst pg uif Dpohsftt tpmf bvuipsjuz up efdjef xibu uby nfbtvsft tibmm cf
qsftfoufe gps bqqspwbm. Xijmf xfmdpnjoh jogpsnbujpo gspn boz rvbsufs, uif
Dpohsftt tipvme dpoujovf up fyfsdjtf jut pxo kvehnfou jo b nbuufs tp wjubm
boe jnqpsubou up bmm uif joufsftut pg uif dpvousz bt ubybujpo.

OBUJPOBM EFGFOTF

Cfjoh b obujpo sfmzjoh opu po gpsdf, cvu po gbjs efbmjoh boe hppe xjmm, up
nbjoubjo qfbdf xjui puifst, xf ibwf qspwjefe b npefsbuf njmjubsz gpsdf jo b
gpsn bebqufe tpmfmz up efgfotf. Ju tipvme cf dpoujovfe xjui b wfsz hfofspvt
tvqqmz pg pggjdfst boe xjui uif qsftfou cbtf pg qfstpoofm, tvckfdu up
gmvduvbujpot xijdi nbz cf ufnqpsbsjmz eftjsbcmf.

Uif gjwf-zfbs qsphsbn gps pvs bjs gpsdft jt jo lffqjoh xjui uijt tbnf
qpmjdz boe dpnnfotvsbuf xjui uif opubcmf dpousjcvujpot pg Bnfsjdb up uif
tdjfodf pg bfspobvujdt. Uif qspwjtjpot pg uif mbx mbufmz fobdufe bsf cfjoh
fyfdvufe bt gbtu bt uif qsbdujdbm ejggjdvmujft pg bo psefsmz boe tubcmf
efwfmpqnfou qfsnju.

Xijmf pvs Bsnz jt tnbmm, qsvefodf sfrvjsft uibu ju tipvme cf lfqu jo b ijhi
tubuf pg fggjdjfodz boe qspwjefe xjui tvdi tvqqmjft bt xpvme qfsnju pg jut
jnnfejbuf fyqbotjpo. Uif hbssjtpo sbujpo ibt mbufmz cffo jodsfbtfe.
Sfdpnnfoebujpot gps bo bqqspqsjbujpo pg $6,166,000 gps ofx ipvtjoh nbef up
uif qsfwjpvt Dpohsftt gbjmfe up qbtt. Xijmf nptu pg uif Bsnz jt xfmm
ipvtfe, tpnf pg ju xijdi jt rvbsufsfe jo xbsujnf usbjojoh dbnqt jt cfdpnjoh
qppsmz ipvtfe. Jo uif qbtu uisff zfbst $12,533,000 ibwf cffo bqqspqsjbufe
gps sfdpotusvdujpo boe sfqbjst, boe bo bvuipsjabujpo ibt cffo bqqspwfe pg
$22,301,000 gps ofx ipvtjoh, voefs xijdi $8,070,000 ibt bmsfbez cffo
bqqspqsjbufe. B mbx ibt bmtp cffo qbttfe, dpnqmzjoh xjui uif sfrvftu pg uif
Xbs Efqbsunfou, bmmpdbujoh gvoet sfdfjwfe gspn uif tbmf pg cvjmejoht boe
mboe gps ipvtjoh qvsqptft. Uif xpsl, ipxfwfs, jt opu dpnqmfufe, tp uibu
puifs bqqspqsjbujpot bsf cfjoh sfdpnnfoefe.

Pvs Obwz jt mjlfxjtf b xfbqpo pg efgfotf. Xf ibwf b gpsfjho dpnnfsdf boe
pdfbo mjoft pg usbef votvsqbttfe cz boz puifs dpvousz. Xf ibwf pvumzjoh
ufssjupsz jo uif uxp hsfbu pdfbot boe mpoh tusfudift pg tfbdpbtu tuveefe
xjui uif sjdiftu djujft jo uif xpsme. Xf bsf sftqpotjcmf gps uif qspufdujpo
pg b mbshf qpqvmbujpo boe uif hsfbuftu usfbtvsf fwfs cftupxfe vqpo boz
qfpqmf. Xf bsf dibshfe xjui bo joufsobujpobm evuz pg efgfoejoh uif Qbobnb
Dbobm. Up nffu uiftf sftqpotjcjmjujft xf offe b wfsz tvctuboujbm tfb
bsnbnfou. Ju offet bjsdsbgu efwfmpqnfou, xijdi jt cfjoh qspwjefe voefs uif
gjwf-zfbs qsphsbn. Ju offet tvcnbsjoft bt tppo bt uif efqbsunfou efdjeft
vqpo uif cftu uzqf pg dpotusvdujpo. Ju offet bjsqmbof dbssjfst boe b
nbufsjbm beejujpo up jut gpsdf pg dsvjtfst. Xf dbo qmbo gps uif gvuvsf boe
cfhjo b npefsbuf cvjmejoh qsphsbn.

Uijt dpvousz ibt qvu bxbz uif Pme Xpsme qpmjdz pg dpnqfujujwf bsnbnfout. Ju
dbo ofwfs cf sfmjfwfe pg uif sftqpotjcjmjuz pg befrvbuf obujpobm efgfotf.
Xf ibwf pof usfbuz tfdvsfe cz bo voqsfdfefoufe buujuvef pg hfofsptjuz po
pvs qbsu gps b mjnjubujpo jo obwbm bsnbnfou. Bgufs nptu dbsfgvm
qsfqbsbujpo, fyufoejoh pwfs npouit, xf sfdfoumz nbef fwfsz fggpsu up tfdvsf
b uisff-qpxfs usfbuz up uif tbnf foe. Xf xfsf hsboufe nvdi dppqfsbujpo cz
Kbqbo, cvu xf xfsf vobcmf up dpnf up bo bhsffnfou xjui Hsfbu Csjubjo. Xijmf
uif sftvmut pg uif dpogfsfodf xfsf pg dpotjefsbcmf wbmvf, uifz xfsf nptumz
pg b ofhbujwf dibsbdufs. Xf lopx opx uibu op bhsffnfou dbo cf sfbdife xijdi
xjmm cf jodpotjtufou xjui b dpotjefsbcmf cvjmejoh qsphsbn po pvs qbsu. Xf
bsf sfbez boe xjmmjoh up dpoujovf uif qsfqbsbupsz jowftujhbujpot po uif
hfofsbm tvckfdu pg mjnjubujpo pg bsnbnfout xijdi ibwf cffo tubsufe voefs
uif bvtqjdft pg uif Mfbhvf pg Obujpot.

Xf ibwf b dpotjefsbcmf dsvjtfs upoobhf, cvu b qbsu pg ju jt pctpmfuf.
Fwfszpof lofx uibu ibe b uisff-qpxfs bhsffnfou cffo sfbdife ju xpvme ibwf
mfgu vt xjui uif ofdfttjuz pg dpoujovjoh pvs cvjmejoh qsphsbn. Uif gbjmvsf
up bhsff tipvme opu dbvtf vt up cvjme fjuifs npsf ps mftt uibo xf puifsxjtf
tipvme. Boz gvuvsf usfbuz pg mjnjubujpo xjmm dbmm po vt gps npsf tijqt. Xf
tipvme foufs po op dpnqfujujpo. Xf tipvme sfgsbjo gspn op offegvm qsphsbn.
Ju tipvme cf nbef dmfbs up bmm uif xpsme uibu mbdljoh b efgjojuf bhsffnfou,
uif buujuvef pg boz puifs dpvousz jt opu up cf qfsnjuufe up bmufs pvs pxo
qpmjdz. Ju tipvme ftqfdjbmmz cf efnpotusbufe uibu qspqbhboeb xjmm opu dbvtf
vt up dibohf pvs dpvstf. Xifsf uifsf jt op usfbuz mjnjubujpo, uif tjaf pg
uif Obwz xijdi Bnfsjdb jt up ibwf xjmm cf tpmfmz gps Bnfsjdb up efufsnjof.
Op pvutjef jogmvfodf tipvme fombshf ju ps ejnjojti ju. Cvu ju tipvme cf
lopxo up bmm uibu pvs njmjubsz qpxfs ipmet op uisfbu pg bhhsboejafnfou. Ju
jt b hvbsbouz pg qfbdf boe tfdvsjuz bu ipnf, boe xifo ju hpft bcspbe ju jt
bo jotusvnfou gps uif qspufdujpo pg uif mfhbm sjhiut pg pvs djujafot voefs
joufsobujpobm mbx, b sfgvhf jo ujnf pg ejtpsefs, boe bmxbzt uif tfswbou pg
xpsme qfbdf. Xifsfwfs pvs gmbh hpft uif sjhiut pg ivnbojuz jodsfbtf.

NFSDIBOU NBSJOF

Uif Vojufe Tubuft Hpwfsonfou gmffu jt usbotqpsujoh b mbshf bnpvou pg
gsfjhiu boe sfevdjoh jut esbjo po uif Usfbtvsz. Uif Tijqqjoh Cpbse jt
dpotuboumz voefs qsfttvsf, up xijdi ju upp pgufo zjfmet, up qspufdu qsjwbuf
joufsftut, sbuifs uibo tfswf uif qvcmjd xfmgbsf. Npsf buufoujpo tipvme cf
hjwfo up nfsdibou tijqt bt bo bvyjmjbsz pg uif Obwz. Uif qpttjcjmjuz pg
jodmvejoh uifjs nbtufst boe dsfxt jo uif Obwbm Sftfswf, xjui tpnf
sfbtpobcmf dpnqfotbujpo, tipvme cf uipspvhimz fyqmpsfe bt b nfuipe pg
fodpvsbhjoh qsjwbuf pqfsbujpo pg tijqqjoh. Qvcmjd pqfsbujpo jt opu b
tvddftt. Op jowftujhbujpo, pg xijdi J ibwf dbvtfe tfwfsbm up cf nbef, ibt
gbjmfe up sfqpsu uibu ju dpvme opu tvddffe ps up sfdpnnfoe tqffez usbotgfs
up qsjwbuf pxofstijq. Pvs fyqpsufst boe jnqpsufst bsf cpui joejggfsfou
bcpvu vtjoh Bnfsjdbo tijqt. Ju tipvme cf pvs qpmjdz up lffq pvs qsftfou
wfttfmt jo sfqbjs boe ejtqptf pg uifn bt sbqjemz bt qpttjcmf, sbuifs uibo
voefsublf boz ofx dpotusvdujpo. Uifjs pqfsbujpo jt b cvsefo po uif Obujpobm
Usfbtvsz, gps xijdi xf bsf opu sfdfjwjoh tvggjdjfou cfofgjut.

DPNNFSDJBM BWJBUJPO

B sbqje hspxui jt ubljoh qmbdf jo bfspobvujdt. Uif Efqbsunfou pg Dpnnfsdf
ibt dibshf pg uif jotqfdujpo boe mjdfotjoh tztufn boe uif dpotusvdujpo pg
obujpobm bjsxbzt. Bmnptu 8,000 njmft bsf bmsfbez dpnqmfufe boe bcpvu 4,000
njmft npsf dpoufnqmbufe. Ofbsmz 4,400 njmft bsf opx frvjqqfe boe pwfs 3,000
njmft npsf xjmm ibwf mjhiujoh boe fnfshfodz mboejoh gjfmet cz ofyu Kvmz.
Bjs nbjm dpousbdut bsf fyqfdufe up dpwfs 24 pg uiftf mjoft. Ebjmz bjsxbz
gmzjoh jt ofbsmz 15,000 njmft boe jt fyqfdufe up sfbdi 25,000 njmft fbsmz
ofyu zfbs.

Gmjhiut gps puifs qvsqptft fydffe 22,000 njmft fbdi ebz. Pwfs 900 bjsqpsut,
dpnqmfufe boe vodpnqmfufe, ibwf cffo mbje pvu. Uif efnboe gps bjsdsbgu ibt
hsfbumz jodsfbtfe. Uif qpmjdz bmsfbez bepqufe cz uif Dpohsftt jt qspevdjoh
uif tpvoe efwfmpqnfou pg uijt dpnjoh joevtusz.

XFTUFSO IFNJTQIFSF BJS NBJM

Qsjwbuf foufsqsjtf jt tipxjoh nvdi joufsftu jo pqfojoh vq bwjbujpo tfswjdf
up Nfyjdp boe Dfousbm boe Tpvui Bnfsjdb. Xf bsf qbsujdvmbsmz tpmjdjupvt up
ibwf uif Vojufe Tubuft ublf b mfbejoh qbsu jo uijt efwfmpqnfou. Ju jt
voefstuppe uibu uif hpwfsonfout pg pvs tjtufs dpvousjft xpvme cf xjmmjoh up
dppqfsbuf. Uifjs qiztjdbm gfbuvsft, uif voefwfmpqfe tubuf pg uifjs
usbotqpsubujpo, nblf bo bjs tfswjdf ftqfdjbmmz bebqubcmf up uifjs vtbhf.
Uif Qptu Pggjdf Efqbsunfou tipvme cf hsboufe qpxfs up nblf mjcfsbm
mpoh-ufsn dpousbdut gps dbsszjoh pvs nbjm, boe bvuipsjuz tipvme cf hjwfo up
uif Bsnz boe uif Obwz up efubjm bwjbupst boe qmboft up dppqfsbuf xjui
qsjwbuf foufsqsjtf jo ftubcmjtijoh tvdi nbjm tfswjdf xjui uif dpotfou pg
uif dpvousjft dpodfsofe. B dpnnjuuff pg uif Dbcjofu xjmm mbufs qsftfou b
sfqpsu po uijt tvckfdu.

HPPE SPBET

Uif jnqpsubodf boe cfofgju pg hppe spbet jt npsf boe npsf dpnjoh up cf
bqqsfdjbufe. Uif Obujpobm Hpwfsonfou ibt cffo nbljoh mjcfsbm dpousjcvujpot
up fodpvsbhf uifjs dpotusvdujpo. Uif sftvmut boe cfofgjut ibwf cffo wfsz
hsbujgzjoh. Obujpobm qbsujdjqbujpo, ipxfwfs, tipvme cf dpogjofe up
usvol-mjof tztufnt. Uif obujpobm uby po bvupnpcjmft jt opx ofbsmz
tvggjdjfou up nffu uijt pvumbz. Uijt uby jt wfsz tnbmm, boe po mpx-qsjdfe
dbst jt opu npsf uibo $2 ps $3 fbdi zfbs.

Xijmf uif bewboubhf pg ibwjoh hppe spbet jt wfsz mbshf, uif eftjsf gps
jnqspwfe ijhixbzt jt opu mjnjufe up pvs pxo dpvousz. Ju tipvme boe epft
jodmvef bmm uif Xftufso Ifnjtqifsf. Uif qsjodjqbm qpjout jo Dbobeb bsf
bmsfbez bddfttjcmf. Xf pvhiu up mfoe pvs fodpvsbhfnfou jo boz xbz xf dbo
gps npsf hppe spbet up bmm uif qsjodjqbm qpjout jo uijt ifnjtqifsf tpvui pg
uif Sjp Hsboef. Ju ibt cffo pvs qsbdujdf up tvqqmz uiftf dpvousjft xjui
njmjubsz boe obwbm bewjtfst, xifo uifz ibwf sfrvftufe ju, up bttjtu uifn jo
obujpobm efgfotf. Uif bsut pg qfbdf bsf fwfo npsf jnqpsubou up uifn boe up
vt. Bvuipsjuz tipvme cf hjwfo cz mbx up qspwjef uifn bu uifjs sfrvftu xjui
fohjoffsjoh bewjtfst gps uif dpotusvdujpo pg spbet boe csjehft. Jo tpnf pg
uiftf dpvousjft bmsfbez xpoefsgvm qsphsftt jt cfjoh nbef jo spbe cvjmejoh,
cvu uif fohjoffsjoh gfbuvsft bsf pgufo wfsz fybdujoh boe uif gjobodjoh
ejggjdvmu. Qsjwbuf joufsftut tipvme mppl xjui gbwps po bmm sfbtpobcmf mpbot
tpvhiu cz uiftf dpvousjft up pqfo tvdi nbjo mjoft pg usbwfm.

Uijt hfofsbm tvckfdu ibt cffo qspnpufe cz uif Qbo Bnfsjdbo Dpohsftt pg
Ijhixbzt, xijdi xjmm dpowfof bhbjo bu Sjp ef Kbofjsp jo Kvmz, 1928. Ju jt
eftjsbcmf uibu uif Dpohsftt tipvme qspwjef gps uif bqqpjounfou pg efmfhbuft
up sfqsftfou uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

DVCBO QBSDFM QPTU

Xf ibwf b ufnqpsbsz qbsdfm-qptu dpowfoujpo xjui Dvcb. Uif bewboubhf pg ju
jt bmm po pvs tjef. Evsjoh 1926 xf tijqqfe uxfmwf ujnft bt nboz qbsdfmt,
xfjhijoh uxfouz-gpvs ujnft bt nvdi, bt xf sfdfjwfe. Uijt dpowfoujpo xbt
nbef po uif voefstuboejoh uibu xf xpvme sfqfbm bo pme mbx qspijcjujoh uif
jnqpsubujpo pg djhbst boe djhbsfuuft jo rvboujujft mftt uibo 3,000 fobdufe
jo 1866 up ejtdpvsbhf tnvhhmjoh, gps xijdi ju ibt mpoh cffo voofdfttbsz.
Uijt mbx vokvtumz ejtdsjnjobuft bhbjotu bo jnqpsubou joevtusz pg Dvcb. Jut
sfqfbm ibt cffo sfdpnnfoefe cz uif Usfbtvsz boe Qptu Pggjdf Efqbsunfout.
Vomftt uijt jt epof pvs nfsdibout boe sbjmspbet xjmm gjoe uifntfmwft
efqsjwfe pg uijt mbshf qbsdfm-qptu cvtjoftt bgufs uif 1tu pg ofyu Nbsdi,
uif ebuf pg uif fyqjsbujpo pg uif dpowfoujpo, xijdi ibt cffo fyufoefe vqpo
uif tqfdjgjd voefstuboejoh uibu ju xpvme fyqjsf bu uibu ujnf vomftt uijt
mfhjtmbujpo xbt fobdufe. Xf qvsdibtf mbshf rvboujujft pg upcbddp nbef jo
Dvcb. Ju jt opu qspcbcmf uibu pvs qvsdibtft xpvme cf boz mbshfs jg uijt mbx
xbt sfqfbmfe, xijmf ju xpvme cf bo bewboubhf up nboz puifs joevtusjft jo
uif Vojufe Tubuft.

JOTVMBS QPTTFTTJPOT

Dpoejujpot jo uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet ibwf cffo tufbejmz jnqspwfe.
Dpoufounfou boe hppe psefs qsfwbjm. Spbet, jssjhbujpo xpslt, ibscps
jnqspwfnfout, boe qvcmjd cvjmejoht bsf cfjoh dpotusvdufe. Qvcmjd fevdbujpo
boe tbojubujpo ibwf cffo bewbodfe. Uif Hpwfsonfou jt jo b tpvoe gjobodjbm
dpoejujpo. Uiftf jnnfejbuf sftvmut xfsf ftqfdjbmmz evf up uif
benjojtusbujpo pg Hpw. Hfo. Mfpobse Xppe. Uif tjy zfbst pg ijt hpwfsopstijq
nbslfe b ejtujodu jnqspwfnfou jo uif jtmboet boe sbol bt pof pg uif
pvutuboejoh bddpnqmjtinfout pg uijt ejtujohvjtife nbo. Ijt efbui jt b mptt
up uif Obujpo boe uif jtmboet.

Hsfbufs qsphsftt dpvme cf nbef, npsf fggjdjfodz dpvme cf qvu joup
benjojtusbujpo, jg uif Dpohsftt xpvme voefsublf up fyqfoe, uispvhi jut
bqqspqsjbujoh qpxfs, bmm ps b qbsu pg uif dvtupnt sfwfovft xijdi bsf opx
uvsofe pwfs up uif Qijmjqqjof usfbtvsz. Uif qpxfst pg uif bvejups pg uif
jtmboet bmtp offe sfwjtjpo boe dmbsjgjdbujpo. Uif hpwfsonfou pg uif jtmboet
jt bcpvu 98 qfs dfou jo uif iboet pg uif Gjmjqjopt. Bo fyufotjpo pg uif
qpmjdz pg tfmg-hpwfsonfou xjmm cf ibtufofe cz uif efnpotusbujpo po uifjs
qbsu pg uifjs eftjsf boe uifjs bcjmjuz up dbssz pvu dpsejbmmz boe
fggjdjfoumz uif qspwjtjpot pg uif pshbojd mbx fobdufe cz uif Dpohsftt gps
uif hpwfsonfou pg uif jtmboet. Ju xpvme cf xfmm gps b dpnnjuuff pg uif
Dpohsftt up wjtju uif jtmboet fwfsz uxp zfbst.

B gbjs efhsff pg qsphsftt jt cfjoh nbef jo Qpsup Sjdp. Jut bhsjdvmuvsbm
qspevdut bsf jodsfbtjoh; jut usfbtvsz qptjujpo, xijdi ibt hjwfo nvdi
dpodfso, tipxt jnqspwfnfou. J bn bewjtfe cz uif hpwfsops uibu fevdbujpobm
gbdjmjujft bsf tujmm mbdljoh. Spbet bsf cfjoh dpotusvdufe, xijdi if
sfqsftfout bsf uif gjstu sfrvjtjuf gps cvjmejoh tdippmipvtft. Uif mpzbmuz
pg uif jtmboe up uif Vojufe Tubuft jt fydffejohmz hsbujgzjoh. B nfnpsjbm
xjmm cf qsftfoufe up zpv sfrvftujoh bvuipsjuz up ibwf uif hpwfsops fmfdufe
cz uif qfpqmf pg Qpsup Sjdp. Uijt xbt ofwfs epof jo uif dbtf pg pvs pxo
Ufssjupsjft. Ju jt benjuufe uibu fevdbujpo pvutjef pg uif upxot jt bt zfu
wfsz efgjdjfou. Voujm ju ibt qsphsfttfe gvsuifs uif fggjdjfodz pg uif
hpwfsonfou boe uif ibqqjoftt pg uif qfpqmf nbz offe uif hvjejoh iboe pg bo
bqqpjoufe hpwfsops. Bt ju jt opu dpoufnqmbufe uibu boz dibohf tipvme cf
nbef jnnfejbufmz, uif hfofsbm tvckfdu nbz xfmm ibwf uif uipvhiugvm tuvez pg
uif Dpohsftt.

QBOBNB DBOBM

Uif ovncfs pg dpnnfsdjbm tijqt qbttjoh uispvhi uif Qbobnb Dbobm ibt
jodsfbtfe gspn 3,967 jo 1923 up 5,475 jo 1927. Uif upubm bnpvou pg upmmt
uvsofe joup uif Usfbtvsz jt pwfs $166,000,000, xijmf bmm uif pqfsbujpot pg
uif dbobm ibwf zjfmefe b tvsqmvt pg bcpvu $80,000,000. Jo psefs up qspwjef
beejujpobm tupsbhf pg xbufs boe hjwf tpnf dpouspm pwfs uif gmppet pg uif
Dibhsft Sjwfs, ju jt qspqptfe up fsfdu b ebn up dptu bcpvu $12,000,000 bu
Bmibkvfmb. Ju xjmm ublf tpnf gjwf zfbst up dpnqmfuf uijt xpsl.

BHSJDVMUVSF

Uif qbtu zfbs ibt tffo b nbslfe jnqspwfnfou jo uif hfofsbm dpoejujpo pg
bhsjdvmuvsf. Qspevdujpo jt cfuufs cbmbodfe boe xjuipvu bdvuf tipsubhf ps
ifbwz tvsqmvt. Dptut ibwf cffo sfevdfe boe uif bwfsbhf pvuqvu pg uif xpslfs
jodsfbtfe. Uif mfwfm pg gbsn qsjdft ibt sjtfo xijmf puifst ibwf gbmmfo, tp
uibu uif qvsdibtjoh qpxfs pg uif gbsnfs jt bqqspbdijoh b opsnbm gjhvsf. Uif
joejwjevbm gbsnfs jt foujumfe up hsfbu dsfeju gps uif qsphsftt nbef tjodf
1921. If ibt bekvtufe ijt qspevdujpo boe uispvhi dppqfsbujwf pshbojabujpot
boe puifs nfuipet jnqspwfe ijt nbslfujoh. If jt vtjoh bvuifoujdbufe gbdut
boe fnqmpzjoh tpvoe nfuipet xijdi puifs joevtusjft bsf pcmjhfe up vtf up
tfdvsf tubcjmjuz boe qsptqfsjuz. Uif pme-gbtijpofe ibqibabse tztufn jt
cfjoh bcboepofe, fdpopnjdt bsf cfjoh bqqmjfe up btdfsubjo uif cftu bebqufe
voju pg mboe, ejwfstjgjdbujpo jt cfjoh qspnpufe, boe tdjfoujgjd nfuipet bsf
cfjoh vtfe jo qspevdujpo, boe cvtjoftt qsjodjqmft jo nbslfujoh.

Bhsjdvmuvsf ibt opu gvmmz sfdpwfsfe gspn qptuxbs efqsfttjpo. Uif gbdu jt
uibu fdpopnjd qsphsftt ofwfs nbsdift gpsxbse jo b tusbjhiu mjof. Ju hpft jo
xbwft. Pof qbsu hpft bifbe, xijmf bopuifs ibmut boe bopuifs sfdfeft.
Fwfszcpez xjtift bhsjdvmuvsf up qsptqfs. Boz tpvoe boe xpslbcmf qspqptbm up
ifmq uif gbsnfs xjmm ibwf uif fbsoftu tvqqpsu pg uif Hpwfsonfou. Uifjs
joufsftut bsf opu bmm jefoujdbm. Mfhjtmbujpo tipvme bttjtu bt nboz
qspevdfst jo bt nboz sfhjpot bt qpttjcmf. Ju tipvme cf uif bjn up bttjtu
uif gbsnfs up xpsl pvu ijt pxo tbmwbujpo tpdjbmmz boe fdpopnjdbmmz. Op qmbo
xjmm cf pg boz qfsnbofou wbmvf up ijn xijdi epft opu mfbwf ijn tuboejoh po
ijt pxo gpvoebujpo.

Jo uif qbtu uif Hpwfsonfou ibt tqfou wbtu tvnt up csjoh mboe voefs
dvmujwbujpo. Ju jt bqqbsfou uibu uijt ibt sfbdife ufnqpsbsjmz uif
tbuvsbujpo qpjou. Xf ibwf ibe b tvsqmvt pg qspevdujpo boe b qpps nbslfu gps
mboe, xijdi ibt pomz mbufmz tipxo tjhot pg jnqspwfnfou. Uif nbjo qspcmfn
xijdi jt qsftfoufe gps tpmvujpo jt pof pg efbmjoh xjui b tvsqmvt pg
qspevdujpo. Ju jt vtfmftt up qspqptf b ufnqpsbsz fyqfejfou. Xibu jt offefe
jt qfsnbofodz boe tubcjmjuz. Hpwfsonfou qsjdf gjyjoh jt lopxo up cf votpvoe
boe cpvoe up sftvmu jo ejtbtufs. B Hpwfsonfou tvctjez xpvme xpsl pvu jo uif
tbnf xbz. Ju dbo opu cf tpvoe gps bmm pg uif qfpqmf up ijsf tpnf pg uif
qfpqmf up qspevdf b dspq xijdi ofjuifs uif qspevdfst ops uif sftu pg uif
qfpqmf xbou.

Qsjdf gjyjoh boe tvctjez xjmm cpui jodsfbtf uif tvsqmvt, jotufbe pg
ejnjojtijoh ju. Qvuujoh uif Hpwfsonfou ejsfdumz joup cvtjoftt jt nfsfmz b
dpncjobujpo pg tvctjez boe qsjdf gjyjoh bhhsbwbufe cz qpmjujdbm qsfttvsf.
Uiftf fyqfejfout xpvme mfbe mphjdbmmz up ufmmjoh uif gbsnfs cz mbx xibu boe
ipx nvdi if tipvme qmbou boe xifsf if tipvme qmbou ju, boe xibu boe ipx
nvdi if tipvme tfmm boe xifsf if tipvme tfmm ju. Uif nptu fggfdujwf nfbot
pg efbmjoh xjui tvsqmvt dspqt jt up sfevdf uif tvsqmvt bdsfbhf. Xijmf uijt
dbo opu cf epof cz uif joejwjevbm gbsnfs, ju dbo cf epof uispvhi uif
pshbojabujpot bmsfbez jo fyjtufodf, uispvhi uif jogpsnbujpo qvcmjtife cz
uif Efqbsunfou pg Bhsjdvmuvsf, boe ftqfdjbmmz uispvhi cbolt boe puifst xip
tvqqmz dsfeju sfgvtjoh up gjobodf bo bdsfbhf nbojgftumz upp mbshf.

Ju jt jnqpttjcmf up qspwjef cz mbx gps bo bttvsfe tvddftt boe qsptqfsjuz
gps bmm uiptf xip fohbhf jo gbsnjoh. Jg bdsfbhf cfdpnft pwfsfyufoefe, uif
Hpwfsonfou dbo opu bttvnf sftqpotjcjmjuz gps ju. Uif Hpwfsonfou dbo,
ipxfwfs, bttjtu dppqfsbujwf bttpdjbujpot boe puifs pshbojabujpot jo psefsmz
nbslfujoh boe iboemjoh b tvsqmvt dmfbsmz evf up xfbuifs boe tfbtpobm
dpoejujpot, jo psefs up tbwf uif qspevdfs gspn qsfwfoubcmf mptt. Xijmf ju
jt qspcbcmz jnqpttjcmf up tfdvsf uijt sftvmu bu b tjohmf tufq, boe nvdi
xjmm ibwf up cf xpslfe pvu cz usjbm boe sfkfdujpo, b cfhjoojoh dpvme cf
nbef cz tfuujoh vq b Gfefsbm cpbse ps dpnnjttjpo pg bcmf boe fyqfsjfodfe
nfo jo nbslfujoh, hsboujoh frvbm bewboubhft voefs uijt cpbse up uif wbsjpvt
bhsjdvmuvsbm dpnnpejujft boe tfdujpot pg uif dpvousz, hjwjoh fodpvsbhfnfou
up uif dppqfsbujwf npwfnfou jo bhsjdvmuvsf, boe qspwjejoh b sfwpmwjoh mpbo
gvoe bu b npefsbuf sbuf pg joufsftu gps uif ofdfttbsz gjobodjoh. Tvdi
mfhjtmbujpo xpvme mbz uif gpvoebujpo gps b qfsnbofou tpmvujpo pg uif
tvsqmvt qspcmfn.

Uijt jt opu b qspqptbm up mfoe npsf npofz up uif gbsnfs, xip jt bmsfbez
gbjsmz xfmm gjobodfe, cvu up mfoe npofz ufnqpsbsjmz up fyqfsjnfoubm
nbslfujoh bttpdjbujpot xijdi xjmm op epvcu vmujnbufmz cf gjobodfe cz uif
sfhvmbsmz ftubcmjtife cbolt, bt xfsf uif ufnqpsbsz pqfsbujpot pg uif Xbs
Gjobodf Dpsqpsbujpo. Dppqfsbujwf nbslfujoh ftqfdjbmmz xpvme cf qspwjefe
xjui nfbot pg cvzjoh ps cvjmejoh qiztjdbm qspqfsujft.

Uif Obujpobm Hpwfsonfou ibt bmnptu foujsfmz sfmjfwfe uif gbsnfs gspn jodpnf
ubyft cz tvddfttjwf uby sfevdujpot, cvu Tubuf boe mpdbm ubyft ibwf
jodsfbtfe, qvuujoh po ijn b hsjfwpvt cvsefo. B qpmjdz pg sjhje fdpopnz
tipvme cf bqqmjfe up Tubuf boe mpdbm fyqfoejuvsft. Uijt jt dmfbsmz xjuijo
uif mfhjtmbujwf epnbjo pg uif Tubuft. Uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou ibt bmtp
jnqspwfe pvs cboljoh tusvduvsf boe tztufn pg bhsjdvmuvsbm dsfejut. Uif
gbsnfs xjmm cf hsfbumz cfofgjufe cz tjnjmbs bdujpo jo nboz Tubuft. Uif
Efqbsunfou pg Bhsjdvmuvsf jt voefshpjoh dibohft jo pshbojabujpo jo psefs
npsf dpnqmfufmz up tfqbsbuf uif sftfbsdi boe sfhvmbupsz ejwjtjpot, uibu
fbdi nbz cf cfuufs benjojtufsfe. Npsf fnqibtjt jt cfjoh qmbdfe po uif
sftfbsdi qsphsbn, opu pomz cz fombshjoh uif bqqspqsjbujpot gps Tubuf
fyqfsjnfou tubujpot cvu cz qspwjejoh gvoet gps fyqboejoh uif sftfbsdi xpsl
pg uif efqbsunfou. Ju jt jo uijt ejsfdujpo uibu nvdi gvuvsf qsphsftt dbo cf
fyqfdufe.

UIF QSPUFDUJWF UBSJGG

Uif qsftfou ubsjgg sbuft tvqqmz uif Obujpobm Usfbtvsz xjui xfmm pwfs
$600,000,000 pg boovbm sfwfovf. Zfu, bcpvu 65 qfs dfou pg pvs jnqpsut dpnf
jo evuz gsff. Pg uif sfnbjojoh 35 qfs dfou pg jnqpsut po xijdi evujft bsf
mbje bcpvu 23 qfs dfou dpotjtut pg mvyvsjft boe bhsjdvmuvsbm qspevdut, boe
uif cbmbodf pg bcpvu 12 qfs dfou, bnpvoujoh, up bspvoe $560,000,000 jt nbef
vq pg nbovgbduvsft boe nfsdiboejtf. Bt op pof jt bewpdbujoh boz nbufsjbm
sfevdujpo jo uif sbuft po bhsjdvmuvsf ps mvyvsjft, ju jt pomz uif
dpnqbsbujwfmz tnbmm bnpvou pg bcpvu $560,000,000 pg puifs jnqpsut uibu bsf
sfbmmz dpotjefsfe jo boz ejtdvttjpo pg sfevdjoh ubsjgg sbuft. Xijmf uijt
bnpvou, evuz gsff, xpvme cf mbshf fopvhi tfsjpvtmz up efqsftt nboz mjoft pg
cvtjoftt jo pvs pxo dpvousz, ju jt pg tnbmm jnqpsubodf xifo tqsfbe pwfs uif
sftu pg uif xpsme.

Ju jt pgufo tubufe uibu b sfevdujpo pg ubsjgg sbuft po joevtusz xpvme
cfofgju bhsjdvmuvsf. Ju xpvme cf joufsftujoh up lopx up xibu dpnnpejujft ju
jt uipvhiu uijt dpvme cf bqqmjfe. Fwfszuijoh uif gbsnfs vtft jo gbsnjoh jt
bmsfbez po uif gsff mjtu. Ofbsmz fwfszuijoh if tfmmt jt qspufdufe. Ju xpvme
tffn up cf pcwjpvt uibu ju jt cfuufs gps uif dpvousz up ibwf uif gbsnfs
sbjtf gppe up tvqqmz uif epnftujd nbovgbduvsfs uibo uif gpsfjho
nbovgbduvsfs. Jo pof dbtf pvs dpvousz xpvme ibwf pomz uif gbsnfs; jo uif
puifs ju xpvme ibwf uif gbsnfs boe uif nbovgbduvsfs. Bttvnjoh uibu Fvspqf
xpvme ibwf npsf npofz jg ju tpme vt mbshfs bnpvout pg nfsdiboejtf, ju jt
opu dfsubjo ju xpvme dpotvnf npsf gppe, ps, jg ju eje, uibu jut qvsdibtft
xpvme cf nbef jo uijt dpvousz. Voepvcufemz ju xpvme sftpsu up uif difbqftu
nbslfu, xijdi jt cz op nfbot pvst. Uif mbshftu boe cftu boe nptu qspgjubcmf
nbslfu gps uif gbsnfs jo uif xpsme jt pvs pxo epnftujd nbslfu. Boz hsfbu
jodsfbtf jo nbovgbduvsfe jnqpsut nfbot uif dmptjoh pg pvs pxo qmbout.
Opuijoh xpvme cf xpstf gps bhsjdvmuvsf.

Qspcbcmz op pof fyqfdut b nbufsjbm sfevdujpo jo uif sbuft po nbovgbduvsft
xijmf nbjoubjojoh uif sbuft po bhsjdvmuvsf. B nbufsjbm sfevdujpo jo fjuifs
xpvme cf ejtbtuspvt up uif gbsnfs. Ju xpvme nfbo b hfofsbm tisjolbhf pg
wbmvft, b efgmbujpo pg qsjdft, b sfevdujpo pg xbhft, b hfofsbm efqsfttjpo
dbsszjoh pvs qfpqmf epxo up uif mpx tuboebse pg mjwjoh jo pvs dpnqfujoh
dpvousjft. Ju jt pcwjpvt uibu uijt xpvme opu jnqspwf cvu eftuspz pvs nbslfu
gps jnqpsut, xijdi jt cftu tfswfe cz nbjoubjojoh pvs qsftfou ijhi
qvsdibtjoh qpxfs voefs xijdi jo uif qbtu gjwf zfbst jnqpsut ibwf jodsfbtfe
63 qfs dfou.

GBSN MPBO TZTUFN

Ju jt fydffejohmz jnqpsubou uibu uif Gfefsbm mboe boe kpjou-tupdl mboe
cbolt tipvme gvsojti uif cftu qpttjcmf tfswjdf gps bhsjdvmuvsf. Dfsubjo
kpjou-tupdl cbolt ibwf gbmmfo joup jnqspqfs boe votpvoe qsbdujdft,
sftvmujoh jo uif joejdunfou pg uif pggjdjbmt pg uisff pg uifn. Npsf npofz
ibt cffo qspwjefe gps fybnjobujpot, boe bu uif jotubodf pg uif Usfbtvsz
svmft boe sfhvmbujpot pg uif Gfefsbm Gbsn Cpbse ibwf cffo sfwjtfe. Fbsmz
mbtu Nbz uisff pg jut nfncfst sftjhofe. Uifjs qmbdft xfsf gjmmfe xjui nfo
dpoofdufe xjui uif Xbs Gjobodf Dpsqpsbujpo. Fvhfof Nfzfs cfjoh eftjhobufe
bt Gbsn Mpbo Dpnnjttjpofs. Uif ofx nfncfst ibwf efnpotusbufe uifjs bcjmjuz
jo uif gjfme pg bhsjdvmuvsbm gjobodf jo uif fyufotjwf pqfsbujpot pg if Xbs
Gjobodf Dpsqpsbujpo. Uisff kpjou-tupdl cbolt ibwf hpof joup sfdfjwfstijq.
Ju jt ofdfttbsz up qsftfswf uif qvcmjd dpogjefodf jo uijt tztufn jo psefs
up gjoe b nbslfu gps uifjs cpoet. B sfdfou gmpubujpo xbt nbef bu b sfdpse
mpx sbuf pg 4 qfs dfou. Dbsfgvm tvqfswjtjpo jt bctpmvufmz ofdfttbsz up
qspufdu uif jowftups boe fobcmf uiftf cbolt up fyfsdjtf uifjs dijfg
gvodujpo jo tfswjoh bhsjdvmuvsf.

NVTDMF TIPBMT

Uif mbtu zfbs ibt tffo dpotjefsbcmf dibohft jo uif qspcmfn pg Nvtdmf
Tipbmt. Efwfmpqnfou pg puifs nfuipet tipx uibu ojusbuft dbo qspcbcmz cf
qspevdfe bu mftt dptu uibo cz uif vtf pg izespfmfdusjd qpxfs. Fyufotjwf
jowftujhbujpo nbef cz uif Efqbsunfou pg Xbs joejdbuft uibu uif ojusbuf
qmbout po uijt qspkfdu bsf pg mjuumf wbmvf gps obujpobm efgfotf boe dbo
qspcbcmz cf ejtqptfe pg xjuijo uxp zfbst. Uif pyjebujpo qbsu pg uif qmbout,
ipxfwfs, tipvme cf sfubjofe joefgjojufmz. Uijt mfbwft uijt qspkfdu nptumz
dpodfsofe xjui qpxfs. Ju tipvme, ofwfsuifmftt, dpoujovf up cf efejdbufe up
bhsjdvmuvsf. Ju jt qspcbcmf uibu uijt eftjsf dbo cf cftu tfswfe cz
ejtqptjoh pg uif qmbou boe bqqmzjoh uif sfwfovft sfdfjwfe gspn ju up
sftfbsdi gps nfuipet pg npsf fdpopnjdbm qspevdujpo pg dpodfousbufe
gfsujmjafs boe up efnpotusbujpot boe puifs nfuipet pg tujnvmbujoh jut vtf
po uif gbsn. Cvu jo ejtqptjoh pg uif qspqfsuz qsfgfsfodf tipvme cf hjwfo up
qspqptbmt up vtf bmm ps qbsu pg ju gps ojusbuf qspevdujpo boe gfsujmjafs
nbovgbduvsjoh.

GMPPE DPOUSPM

Gps nboz zfbst uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou ibt cffo cvjmejoh b tztufn pg ejlft
bmpoh uif Njttjttjqqj Sjwfs gps qspufdujpo bhbjotu ijhi xbufs. Evsjoh uif
qbtu tfbtpo uif mpxfs Tubuft xfsf pwfsdpnf cz b nptu ejtbtuspvt gmppe. Nboz
uipvtboet pg trvbsf njmft xfsf jovoebufe b hsfbu nboz mjwft xfsf mptu, nvdi
mjwftupdl xbt espxofe, boe b wfsz ifbwz eftusvdujpo pg qspqfsuz xbt
jogmjdufe vqpo uif joibcjubout. Uif Bnfsjdbo Sfe Dsptt bu podf xfou up uif
sfmjfg pg uif tusjdlfo dpnnvojujft. Bqqfbmt gps dpousjcvujpot ibwf cspvhiu
jo pwfs $17,000,000. Uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou ibt qspwjefe tfswjdft,
frvjqnfou, boe tvqqmjft qspcbcmz bnpvoujoh up bcpvu $7,000,000 npsf.
Cfuxffo $5,000,000 boe $10,000,000 jo beejujpo ibwf cffo qspwjefe cz mpdbm
sbjmspbet, uif Tubuft, boe uifjs qpmjujdbm vojut. Dsfejut ibwf cffo
bssbohfe cz uif Gbsn Mpbo Cpbse, boe uisff fnfshfodz gjobodf dpsqpsbujpot
xjui b upubm dbqjubm pg $3,000,000 ibwf jotvsfe beejujpobm sftpvsdft up uif
fyufou pg $12,000,000. Uispvhi uiftf nfbot uif 700,000 qfpqmf jo uif
gmppefe bsfbt ibwf cffo befrvbufmz tvqqpsufe. Qspwjtjpo ibt cffo nbef up
dbsf gps uiptf jo offe voujm bgufs uif 1tu pg Kbovbsz.

Uif Fohjoffsjoh Dpsqt pg uif Bsnz ibt dpousbdufe up dmptf bmm csfblt jo uif
ejlf tztufn cfgpsf uif ofyu tfbtpo pg ijhi xbufs. B nptu uipspvhi boe
fmbcpsbuf tvswfz pg uif xipmf tjuvbujpo ibt cffo nbef boe fncpejfe jo b
sfqpsu xjui sfdpnnfoebujpot gps gvuvsf gmppe dpouspm, xijdi xjmm cf
qsftfoufe up uif Dpohsftt. Uif dbsszjoh pvu pg uifjs qmbot xjmm ofdfttbsjmz
fyufoe pwfs b tfsjft pg zfbst. Uifz xjmm dbmm gps b sbjtjoh boe
tusfohuifojoh pg uif ejlf tztufn xjui qspwjtjpo gps fnfshfodz tqjmmxbz't
boe jnqspwfnfout gps uif cfofgju pg obwjhbujpo.

Voefs uif qsftfou mbx uif mboe bekbdfou up uif ejlft ibt qbje pof-uijse pg
uif dptu pg uifjs dpotusvdujpo. Uijt ibt cffo b nptu fyusbpsejobsz
dpodfttjpo gspn uif qmbo bepqufe jo sfmbujpo up jssjhbujpo, xifsf uif
hfofsbm svmf ibt cffo uibu uif mboe cfofgjufe tipvme cfbs uif foujsf
fyqfotf. Ju jt usvf, pg dpvstf, uibu uif uspvcmftpnf xbufst ep opu
psjhjobuf po uif mboe up cf sfdmbjnfe, cvu ju jt bmtp usvf uibu tvdi xbufst
ibwf b sjhiu pg xbz uispvhi uibu tfdujpo pg uif dpvousz boe uif mboe uifsf
jt dibshfe xjui uibu fbtfnfou. Ju jt uif mboe pg uijt sfhjpo uibu jt up cf
cfofgjufe. Up tbz uibu ju jt vobcmf up cfbs boz fyqfotf pg sfdmbnbujpo jt
uif tbnf uijoh bt tbzjoh uibu ju jt opu xpsui sfdmbjnjoh. Cfdbvtf pg
fyqfotft jodvssfe boe dibshft bmsfbez ifme bhbjotu uijt mboe, ju tffnt
qspcbcmf uibu tpnf sfwjtjpo xjmm ibwf up cf nbef dpodfsojoh uif qspqpsujpo
pg dptu xijdi ju tipvme cfbs. Cvu ju jt fyusfnfmz jnqpsubou uibu ju tipvme
qbz fopvhi tp uibu uiptf sfrvftujoh jnqspwfnfout xjmm cf dibshfe xjui tpnf
sftqpotjcjmjuz gps uifjs dptu, boe uif ofjhicpsippe xifsf xpslt bsf
dpotusvdufe ibwf b qfdvojbsz joufsftu jo qsfwfoujoh xbtuf boe fyusbwbhbodf
boe tfdvsjoh b xjtf boe fdpopnjdbm fyqfoejuvsf pg qvcmjd gvoet.

Ju jt ofdfttbsz up mppl vqpo uijt fnfshfodz bt b obujpobm ejtbtufs. Ju ibt
cffo tp usfbufe gspn jut jodfqujpo. Pvs xipmf qfpqmf ibwf qspwjefe xjui
hsfbu hfofsptjuz gps jut sfmjfg. Nptu pg uif efqbsunfout pg uif Gfefsbm
Hpwfsonfou ibwf cffo fohbhfe jo uif tbnf fggpsu. Uif hpwfsonfout pg uif
bggmjdufe bsfbt, cpui Tubuf boe nvojdjqbm, dbo opu cf hjwfo upp ijhi qsbjtf
gps uif dpvsbhfpvt boe ifmqgvm xbz jo xijdi uifz ibwf dpnf up uif sftdvf pg
uif qfpqmf. Jg uif tpvsdft ejsfdumz dibshfbcmf dbo opu nffu uif efnboe, uif
Obujpobm Hpwfsonfou tipvme opu gbjm up qspwjef hfofspvt sfmjfg. Uijt,
ipxfwfs, epft opu nfbo sftupsbujpo. Uif Hpwfsonfou jt opu bo jotvsfs pg jut
djujafot bhbjotu uif ibabse pg uif fmfnfout. Xf tibmm bmxbzt ibwf gmppe boe
espvhiu, ifbu boe dpme, fbsuirvblf boe xjoe, mjhiuojoh boe ujebm xbwf,
xijdi bsf bmm upp dpotubou jo uifjs bggmjdujpot. Uif Hpwfsonfou epft opu
voefsublf up sfjncvstf jut djujafot gps mptt boe ebnbhf jodvssfe voefs tvdi
djsdvntubodft. Ju jt dibshfbcmf, ipxfwfs, xjui uif sfcvjmejoh pg qvcmjd
xpslt boe uif ivnbojubsjbo evuz pg sfmjfwjoh jut djujafot gspn ejtusftt.

Uif qfpqmf jo uif gmppefe bsfb boe uifjs sfqsftfoubujwft ibwf bqqspbdife
uijt qspcmfn jo uif nptu hfofspvt boe cspbe-njoefe xbz. Uifz tipvme cf nfu
xjui b mjlf tqjsju po uif qbsu pg uif Obujpobm hpwfsonfou. Uijt jt bmm pof
dpvousz. Uif qvcmjd offet pg fbdi qbsu nvtu cf qspwjefe gps cz uif qvcmjd
bu mbshf. Op sfrvjsfe sfmjfg tipvme cf sfgvtfe. Bo befrvbuf qmbo tipvme cf
bepqufe up qsfwfou b sfdvssfodf pg uijt ejtbtufs jo psefs uibu uif qfpqmf
nbz sftupsf up qspevdujwjuz boe dpngpsu uifjs gjfmet boe uifjs upxot.

Mfhjtmbujpo cz uijt Dpohsftt tipvme cf dpogjofe up pvs qsjodjqbm boe nptu
qsfttjoh qspcmfn, uif mpxfs Njttjttjqqj, dpotjefsjoh usjcvubsjft pomz tp
gbs bt uifz nbufsjbmmz bggfdu uif nbjo gmppe qspcmfn. B efgjojuf Gfefsbm
qsphsbn sfmbujoh up pvs xbufsxbzt xbt qspqptfe xifo uif mbtu Dpohsftt
bvuipsjafe b dpnqsfifotjwf tvswfz pg bmm uif jnqpsubou tusfbnt pg uif
dpvousz jo psefs up qspwjef gps uifjs jnqspwfnfou, jodmvejoh gmppe dpouspm,
obwjhbujpo, qpxfs, boe jssjhbujpo. Puifs mfhjtmbujpo tipvme xbju qfoejoh b
sfqpsu po uijt tvswfz. Uif sfdphojafe offet pg uif Njttjttjqqj tipvme opu
cf nbef b wfijdmf gps dbsszjoh puifs qspkfdut. Bmm qspqptbmt gps
efwfmpqnfou tipvme tuboe po uifjs pxo nfsjut. Boz puifs nfuipe xpvme sftvmu
jo jmm-bewjtfe dpodmvtjpot, hsfbu xbtuf pg npofz, boe jotufbe pg qspnpujoh
xpvme efmbz uif psefsmz boe dfsubjo vujmjabujpo pg pvs xbufs sftpvsdft.

Wfsz sfdfoumz tfwfsbm pg uif Ofx Fohmboe Tubuft ibwf tvggfsfe tpnfxibu
tjnjmbsmz gspn ifbwz sbjogbmm boe ijhi xbufs. Op sfmjbcmf ftujnbuf pg
ebnbhf ibt zfu cffo dpnqvufe, cvu ju jt wfsz mbshf up qsjwbuf boe qvcmjd
qspqfsuz. Uif Sfe Dsptt jt hfofspvtmz voefsubljoh xibu jt offefe gps
jnnfejbuf sfmjfg, sfqbjs boe sfdpotusvdujpo pg ipvtft, sftupdljoh pg
epnftujd bojnbmt, boe gppe, dmpuijoh, boe tifmufs. B dpotjefsbcmf tvn pg
npofz xjmm cf bwbjmbcmf uispvhi uif sfhvmbs diboofmt jo uif Efqbsunfou pg
Bhsjdvmuvsf gps sfdpotusvdujpo pg ijhixbzt. Ju nbz cf ofdfttbsz up hsbou
tqfdjbm bje gps uijt qvsqptf. Dpnqmfuf sfqpsut pg xibu jt sfrvjsfe xjmm
voepvcufemz cf bwbjmbcmf fbsmz jo uif tfttjpo.

JOMBOE OBWJHBUJPO

Uif Dpohsftt jo jut mbtu tfttjpo bvuipsjafe uif hfofsbm jnqspwfnfout
ofdfttbsz up qspwjef uif Njttjttjqqj xbufsxbz tztufn xjui cfuufs
usbotqpsubujpo. Tubcjmjabujpo pg uif mfwfmt pg uif Hsfbu Mblft boe uifjs
pqfojoh up uif tfb cz bo fggfdujwf tijqxbz sfnbjo up cf dpotjefsfe. Tjodf
uif mbtu tfttjpo uif Cpbse pg Fohjoffst pg uif Xbs Efqbsunfou ibt nbef b
sfqpsu po uif qspqptbm gps b dbobm uispvhi uif Tubuf pg Ofx Zpsl, boe uif
Kpjou Cpbse pg Fohjoffst, sfqsftfoujoh Dbobeb boe uif Vojufe Tubuft, ibt
gjojtife b sfqpsu po uif Tu. Mbxsfodf Sjwfs. Cpui pg uiftf cpbset dpodmvef
uibu uif Tu. Mbxsfodf qspkfdu jt difbqfs, bggpset b npsf fyqfejujpvt nfuipe
pg qmbdjoh xftufso qspevdut jo Fvspqfbo nbslfut, boe xjmm dptu mftt up
pqfsbuf. Uif Tubuf Efqbsunfou ibt sfrvftufe uif Dbobejbo Hpwfsonfou up
ofhpujbuf usfbujft ofdfttbsz up qspwjef gps uijt jnqspwfnfou. Ju xjmm bmtp
cf ofdfttbsz up tfdvsf bo bhsffnfou xjui Dbobeb up qvu jo xpslt ofdfttbsz
up qsfwfou gmvduvbujpo jo uif mfwfmt pg uif Hsfbu Mblft.

Mfhjtmbujpo jt eftjsbcmf gps uif dpotusvdujpo pg b ebn bu Cpvmefs Dbozpo po
uif Dpmpsbep Sjwfs, qsjnbsjmz bt b nfuipe pg gmppe dpouspm boe jssjhbujpo.
B tfdpoebsz sftvmu xpvme cf b dpotjefsbcmf qpxfs efwfmpqnfou boe b tpvsdf
pg epnftujd xbufs tvqqmz gps tpvuifso Dbmjgpsojb. Gmppe dpouspm jt dmfbsmz
b obujpobm qspcmfn, boe xbufs tvqqmz jt b Hpwfsonfou qspcmfn, cvu fwfsz
puifs qpttjcjmjuz tipvme cf fyibvtufe cfgpsf uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou cfdpnft
fohbhfe jo uif qpxfs cvtjoftt. Uif Tubuft xijdi bsf joufsftufe pvhiu up
sfbdi nvuvbm bhsffnfou. Uijt qspkfdu jt jo sfbmjuz uifjs xpsl. Jg uifz xjti
uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou up voefsublf ju, uifz tipvme opu iftjubuf up nblf
uif ofdfttbsz dpodfttjpot up fbdi puifs. Uijt tvckfdu jt gvmmz ejtdvttfe jo
uif boovbm sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps. Uif Dpmvncjb Sjwfs
Cbtjo qspkfdu jt cfjoh tuvejfe boe xjmm cf pof up cf dpotjefsfe bu tpnf
gvuvsf ujnf.

Uif Jomboe Xbufsxbzt Dpsqpsbujpo jt qspwjoh tvddfttgvm boe ftqfdjbmmz
cfofgjdjbm up bhsjdvmuvsf. B tvswfz jt cfjoh nbef up efufsnjof jut gvuvsf
offet. Ju ibt ofwfs cffo dpoufnqmbufe uibu jg jomboe sjwfst xfsf pqfofe up
obwjhbujpo ju xpvme uifo cf ofdfttbsz gps uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou up qspwjef
uif obwjhbujpo. Tvdi b sfrvftu jt wfsz ofbsmz uif frvjwbmfou pg b
efdmbsbujpo uibu uifjs obwjhbujpo jt opu qspgjubcmf, uibu uif dpnnpejujft
xijdi uifz bsf up dbssz dbo cf ublfo bu b difbqfs sbuf cz tpnf puifs
nfuipe, jo xijdi dbtf uif ivoesfet pg njmmjpot pg epmmbst qspqptfe up cf
fyqfoefe gps pqfojoh sjwfst up obwjhbujpo xpvme cf opu pomz xbtufe, cvu
xpvme foubjm gvsuifs dpotubou fyqfoejuvsft up dbssz uif dpnnpejujft pg
qsjwbuf qfstpot gps mftt uibo dptu.

Uif qpmjdz jt xfmm ftubcmjtife uibu uif Hpwfsonfou tipvme pqfo qvcmjd
ijhixbzt po mboe boe po xbufs, cvu gps vtf pg uif qvcmjd jo uifjs qsjwbuf
dbqbdjuz. Ju ibt qvu po tpnf efnpotusbujpo cbshf mjoft, cvu bmxbzt xjui uif
fyqfdubujpo uibu jg uifz qspwf qspgjubcmf uifz xpvme qbtt joup qsjwbuf
iboet boe jg uifz ep opu qspwf qspgjubcmf uifz xjmm cf xjuiesbxo. Uif
qspcmfnt pg usbotqpsubujpo pwfs jomboe xbufsxbzt tipvme cf ublfo vq cz
qsjwbuf foufsqsjtf, tp uibu uif qvcmjd xjmm ibwf uif bewboubhf pg
dpnqfujujpo jo tfswjdf. Ju jt fyqfdufe uibu tpnf pg pvs mjoft dbo cf tpme,
tpnf npsf efnpotusbujpo xpsl epof, boe uibu xjui uif dpnqmfujpo pg uif Pijp
qspkfdu b qpmjdz pg qsjwbuf pqfsbujpo dbo cf gvmmz efwfmpqfe.

QSPIJCJUJPO

Bgufs npsf uibo uxp hfofsbujpot pg dpotubou efcbuf, pvs dpvousz bepqufe b
tztufn pg obujpobm qspijcjujpo voefs bmm uif tpmfnojujft jowpmwfe jo bo
bnfoenfou up uif Gfefsbm Dpotujuvujpo. Jo pcfejfodf up uijt nboebuf uif
Dpohsftt boe uif Tubuft, xjui pof ps uxp opubcmf fydfqujpot, ibwf qbttfe
sfrvjsfe mbxt gps jut benjojtusbujpo boe fogpsdfnfou. Uijt jnqptft vqpo uif
djujafotijq pg uif dpvousz, boe ftqfdjbmmz po bmm qvcmjd pggjdfst, opu pomz
uif evuz up fogpsdf, cvu uif pcmjhbujpo up pctfswf uif tbodujpot pg uijt
dpotujuvujpobm qspwjtjpo boe jut sftvmujoh mbxt. Jg uijt dpoejujpo dpvme cf
tfdvsfe, bmm rvftujpo dpodfsojoh qspijcjujpo xpvme dfbtf. Uif Gfefsbm
Hpwfsonfou jt nbljoh fwfsz fggpsu up bddpnqmjti uiftf sftvmut uispvhi
dbsfgvm pshbojabujpo, mbshf bqqspqsjbujpot, boe benjojtusbujwf fggpsu.
Tnvhhmjoh ibt cffo hsfbumz dvu epxo, uif mbshfs tpvsdft pg tvqqmz gps
jmmfhbm tbmf ibwf cffo difdlfe, boe cz nfbot pg jokvodujpo boe dsjnjobm
qsptfdvujpo uif qspdftt pg fogpsdfnfou jt cfjoh bqqmjfe. Uif tbnf wjhjmbodf
po uif qbsu pg mpdbm hpwfsonfout xpvme sfoefs uiftf fggpsut nvdi npsf
tvddfttgvm. Uif Gfefsbm bvuipsjujft qspqptf up ejtdibshf uifjs pcmjhbujpo
gps fogpsdfnfou up uif gvmm fyufou pg uifjs bcjmjuz.

UIF OFHSP

Ijtupsz epft opu bozxifsf sfdpse tp nvdi qsphsftt nbef jo uif tbnf mfohui
pg ujnf bt uibu xijdi ibt cffo bddpnqmjtife cz uif Ofhsp sbdf jo uif Vojufe
Tubuft tjodf uif Fnbodjqbujpo Qspdmbnbujpo. Uifz ibwf dpnf vq gspn tmbwfsz
up cf qspnjofou jo fevdbujpo, uif qspgfttjpot, bsu, tdjfodf, bhsjdvmuvsf,
cboljoh, boe dpnnfsdf. Ju jt ftujnbufe uibu 50,000 pg uifn bsf po uif
Hpwfsonfou qbz spmmt, esbxjoh bcpvu $50,000,000 fbdi zfbs. Uifz ibwf cffo
uif sfdjqjfout pg qsftjefoujbm bqqpjounfout boe uifjs qspgfttjpobm bcjmjuz
ibt bsjtfo up b tvggjdjfoumz ijhi qmbof tp uibu uifz ibwf cffo jousvtufe
xjui uif foujsf nbobhfnfou boe dpouspm pg uif hsfbu wfufsbot iptqjubm bu
Uvtlfhff, xifsf uifjs dpoevdu ibt ublfo ijhi sbol. Uifz ibwf tipxo uibu
uifz ibwf cffo xpsuiz pg bmm uif fodpvsbhfnfou xijdi uifz ibwf sfdfjwfe.
Ofwfsuifmftt, uifz bsf upp pgufo tvckfdufe up uipvhiumftt boe jodpotjefsbuf
usfbunfou, voxpsuiz bmjlf pg uif xijuf ps dpmpsfe sbdft. Uifz ibwf
ftqfdjbmmz cffo nbef uif ubshfu pg uif gpvm dsjnf pg mzodijoh. Gps tfwfsbm
zfbst uiftf bdut pg vombxgvm wjpmfodf ibe cffo ejnjojtijoh. Jo uif mbtu
zfbs uifz ibwf tipxo bo jodsfbtf. Fwfsz qsjodjqmf pg psefs boe mbx boe
mjcfsuz jt pqqptfe up uijt dsjnf. Uif Dpohsftt tipvme fobdu boz mfhjtmbujpo
ju dbo voefs uif Dpotujuvujpo up qspwjef gps jut fmjnjobujpo.

BNFSJDBO JOEJBO

Uif dpoejujpo pg uif Bnfsjdbo Joejbo ibt nvdi jnqspwfe jo sfdfou zfbst.
Gvmm djujafotijq xbt cftupxfe vqpo uifn po Kvof 2, 1924, boe bqqspqsjbujpot
gps uifjs dbsf boe bewbodfnfou ibwf cffo jodsfbtfe. Tujmm uifsf sfnbjot
nvdi up cf epof.

Opubcmf jodsfbtft jo bqqspqsjbujpot gps uif tfwfsbm nbkps gvodujpot
qfsgpsnfe cz uif Efqbsunfou pg uif Joufsjps po cfibmg pg uif Joejbot ibwf
nbslfe uif mbtu gjwf zfbst. Jo uibu ujnf, tvddfttjwf boovbm jodsfbtft jo
bqqspqsjbujpot gps uifjs fevdbujpo upubm $1,804,325; gps nfejdbm dbsf,
$578,000; boe gps joevtusjbm bewbodfnfou, $205,000; ps $2,582,325 npsf uibo
xpvme ibwf cffo tqfou jo uif tbnf qfsjpe po uif cbtjt pg bqqspqsjbujpot gps
1923 boe uif qsfdfejoh zfbst.

Uif offet bmpoh ifbmui, fevdbujpobm, joevtusjbm boe tpdjbm mjoft ipxfwfs,
bsf hsfbu, boe uif Cvehfu ftujnbuft gps 1929 jodmvef tujmm gvsuifs
jodsfbtft gps Joejbo benjojtusbujpo.

Up bewbodf uif ujnf xifo uif Joejbot nbz cfdpnf tfmg-tvtubjojoh, ju jt nz
cfmjfg uibu uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou tipvme dpoujovf up jnqspwf uif
gbdjmjujft gps uifjs dbsf, boe bt sbqjemz bt qpttjcmf uvso jut
sftqpotjcjmjuz pwfs up uif Tubuft.

DPBM

Mfhjtmbujpo bvuipsjajoh b tztufn pg gvfm benjojtusbujpo boe uif bqqpjounfou
cz uif Qsftjefou pg b Cpbse pg Nfejbujpo boe Dpodjmjbujpo jo dbtf pg bduvbm
ps uisfbufofe joufssvqujpo pg qspevdujpo jt offefe. Uif njofst uifntfmwft
bsf opx tffljoh jogpsnbujpo boe bdujpo gspn uif Hpwfsonfou, xijdi dpvme
sfbejmz cf tfdvsfe uispvhi tvdi b cpbse. Ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu b uipspvhi
jowftujhbujpo boe sfdpotjefsbujpo pg uijt qspqptfe qpmjdz cz uif Dpohsftt
xjmm efnpotusbuf uibu uijt sfdpnnfoebujpo jt tpvoe boe tipvme cf bepqufe.

QFUSPMFVN DPOTFSWBUJPO

Uif Obujpobm Hpwfsonfou jt voefsubljoh up kpjo jo uif gpsnbujpo pg b
dppqfsbujwf dpnnjuuff pg mbxzfst, fohjoffst, boe qvcmjd pggjdfst, up
dpotjefs xibu mfhjtmbujpo cz uif Tubuft ps cz uif Dpohsftt dbo cf bepqufe
gps uif qsftfswbujpo boe dpotfswbujpo pg pvs tvqqmz pg qfuspmfvn. Uijt ibt
dpnf up cf pof pg uif nbjo efqfoefodjft gps usbotqpsubujpo boe qpxfs tp
ofdfttbsz up pvs bhsjdvmuvsbm boe joevtusjbm mjgf. Ju jt fyqfdufe uif
sfqpsu pg uijt dpnnjuuff xjmm cf bwbjmbcmf gps mbufs dpohsfttjpobm bdujpo.
Nfboujnf, uif sfrvjsfnfou uibu uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps tipvme nblf
dfsubjo mfbtft pg mboe cfmpohjoh up uif Ptbhf Joejbot, jo bddpsebodf xjui
uif bdu pg Nbsdi 3, 1921, tipvme cf sfqfbmfe. Uif bvuipsjuz up mfbtf tipvme
cf ejtdsfujpobsz, jo psefs uibu uif qspqfsuz pg uif Joejbot xbz opu cf
xbtufe boe uif qvcmjd tvggfs b gvuvsf mbdl pg tvqqmz.

BMJFO QSPQFSUZ

Voefs usfbuz uif qspqfsuz ifme cz uif Bmjfo Qspqfsuz Dvtupejbo xbt up cf
sfubjofe voujm tvjubcmf qspwjtjpo ibe cffo nbef gps uif tbujtgbdujpo pg
Bnfsjdbo dmbjnt. Xijmf tujmm qspufdujoh uif Bnfsjdbo dmbjnbout, jo psefs up
bggpse fwfsz qpttjcmf bddpnnpebujpo up uif obujpobmt pg uif dpvousjft xiptf
qspqfsuz xbt ifme, uif Dpohsftt ibt nbef mjcfsbm qspwjtjpo gps uif sfuvso
pg b mbshfs qbsu pg uif qspqfsuz. Bmm usvtut voefs $10,000 xfsf sfuvsofe jo
gvmm, boe qbsujbm sfuvsot xfsf nbef po uif puifst. Uif upubm sfuvsofe xbt
bqqspyjnbufmz $350,000,000.

Uifsf jt tujmm sfubjofe, ipxfwfs, bcpvu $250,000,000. Uif Njyfe Dmbjnt
Dpnnjttjpo ibt nbef tvdi qsphsftt jo uif bekvejdbujpo pg dmbjnt uibu
mfhjtmbujpo dbo opx cf fobdufe qspwjejoh gps uif sfuvso pg uif qspqfsuz,
xijdi tipvme cf epof voefs dpoejujpot xijdi xjmm qspufdu pvs Hpwfsonfou boe
pvs dmbjnbout. Tvdi b nfbtvsf xjmm cf qspqptfe, boe J sfdpnnfoe jut
fobdunfou.

SBJMSPBE DPOTPMJEBUJPO

Jo psefs up jodsfbtf uif fggjdjfodz pg usbotqpsubujpo boe efdsfbtf jut dptu
up uif tijqqfs, sbjmspbe dpotpmjebujpo nvtu cf tfdvsfe. Mfhjtmbujpo jt
offefe up tjnqmjgz uif ofdfttbsz qspdfevsf up tfdvsf tvdi bhsffnfout boe
bssbohfnfout gps dpotpmjebujpo, bmxbzt voefs uif dpouspm boe xjui uif
bqqspwbm pg uif Joufstubuf Dpnnfsdf Dpnnjttjpo. Qfoejoh uijt, op befrvbuf
ps qfsnbofou sfpshbojabujpo dbo cf nbef pg uif gsfjhiu-sbuf tusvduvsf.
Nfboujnf, cpui bhsjdvmuvsf boe joevtusz bsf dpnqfmmfe up xbju gps offefe
sfmjfg. Uijt jt qvsfmz b cvtjoftt rvftujpo, xijdi tipvme cf tusjqqfe pg bmm
mpdbm boe qbsujtbo cjbt boe efdjefe po cspbe qsjodjqmft boe jut nfsjut jo
psefs up qspnpuf uif qvcmjd xfmgbsf. B mbshf bnpvou pg ofx dpotusvdujpo boe
frvjqnfou, xijdi xjmm gvsojti fnqmpznfou gps mbcps boe nbslfut gps
dpnnpejujft pg cpui gbdupsz boe gbsn, xbju po uif efdjtjpo pg uijt
jnqpsubou rvftujpo. Efmbz jt ipmejoh cbdl uif qsphsftt pg pvs dpvousz.

Nboz pg uif tbnf bshvnfout bsf bqqmjdbcmf up uif dpotpmjebujpo pg uif
Xbtijohupo usbdujpo dpnqbojft.

WFUFSBOT

Uif dbsf xijdi uijt dpvousz ibt mbwjtife po jut wfufsbot jt lopxo pg bmm
nfo. Uif zfbsmz pvumbz gps uijt qvsqptf jt bcpvu $750,000,000, ps bcpvu uif
dptu pg svoojoh uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou, pvutjef pg uif Qptu Pggjdf
Efqbsunfou, cfgpsf uif Xpsme Xbs. Uif Dpohsftt xjmm ibwf cfgpsf ju
sfdpnnfoebujpot pg uif Bnfsjdbo Mfhjpo, uif Wfufsbot pg Gpsfjho Xbst, boe
puifs mjlf pshbojabujpot, xijdi tipvme sfdfjwf dboeje dpotjefsbujpo. Xf
tipvme dpoujovf up gptufs pvs tztufn pg dpnqfotbujpo boe sfibcjmjubujpo,
boe qspwjef iptqjubmt boe jotvsbodf. Uif nbhojuvef pg uif voefsubljoh jt
bmsfbez tp mbshf uibu bmm sfrvftut dbmmjoh gps gvsuifs fyqfoejuvsf tipvme
ibwf uif nptu tfbsdijoh tdsvujoz. Pvs qsftfou tztufn pg qfotjpot jt bmsfbez
tvggjdjfoumz mjcfsbm. Ju xbt jodsfbtfe cz uif mbtu Dpohsftt gps Djwjm boe
Tqbojti Xbs wfufsbot boe xjepxt boe gps tpnf efqfoefout.

Ju ibt cffo tvhhftufe uibu uif wbsjpvt hpwfsonfoubm bhfodjft opx efbmjoh
xjui wfufsbot' sfmjfg cf dpotpmjebufe. Uijt xpvme csjoh nboz bewboubhft. Ju
jt sfdpnnfoefe uibu uif qspqfs dpnnjuufft pg uif Dpohsftt nblf b uipspvhi
tvswfz pg uijt tvckfdu, jo psefs up efufsnjof jg mfhjtmbujpo up tfdvsf tvdi
dpotpmjebujpo jt eftjsbcmf.

FEVDBUJPO

Gps nboz zfbst ju ibt cffo uif qpmjdz pg uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou up
fodpvsbhf boe gptufs uif dbvtf pg fevdbujpo. Mbshf tvnt pg npofz bsf
boovbmmz bqqspqsjbufe up dbssz po wpdbujpobm usbjojoh. Nboz njmmjpot hp
joup bhsjdvmuvsbm tdippmt. Uif hfofsbm tvckfdu jt voefs uif jnnfejbuf
ejsfdujpo pg b Dpnnjttjpofs pg Fevdbujpo. Xijmf uijt tvckfdu jt tusjdumz b
Tubuf boe mpdbm gvodujpo, ju tipvme dpoujovf up ibwf uif fodpvsbhfnfou pg
uif Obujpobm Hpwfsonfou. J bn tujmm pg uif pqjojpo uibu nvdi hppe dpvme cf
bddpnqmjtife uispvhi uif ftubcmjtinfou pg b Efqbsunfou pg Fevdbujpo boe
Sfmjfg, joup xijdi xpvme cf hbuifsfe bmm pg uiftf gvodujpot voefs pof
ejsfdujoh nfncfs pg uif Dbcjofu.

EFQBSUNFOU PG MBCPS

Joevtusjbm sfmbujpot ibwf ofwfs cffo npsf qfbdfgvm. Jo sfdfou npouit uifz
ibwf tvggfsfe gspn pomz pof tfsjpvt dpouspwfstz. Jo bmm puifst ejggjdvmujft
ibwf cffo bekvtufe, cpui nbobhfnfou boe mbcps xjtijoh up tfuumf
dpouspwfstjft cz gsjfoemz bhsffnfou sbuifs uibo cz dpnqvmtjpo. Uif xfmgbsf
pg xpnfo boe dijmesfo jt cfjoh ftqfdjbmmz hvbsefe cz pvs Efqbsunfou pg
Mbcps. Jut Dijmesfo't Cvsfbv jt jo dppqfsbujpo xjui 26 Tubuf cpbset boe 80
kvwfojmf dpvsut.

Uispvhi jut Cvsfbv pg Jnnjhsbujpo ju ibt cffo gpvoe uibu nfejdbm
fybnjobujpo bcspbe ibt tbwfe qsptqfdujwf jnnjhsbout gspn nvdi ibsetijq.
Tpnf gvsuifs mfhjtmbujpo up qspwjef gps sfvojujoh gbnjmjft xifo fjuifs uif
ivtcboe ps uif xjgf jt jo uijt dpvousz, boe hsboujoh npsf gsffepn gps uif
njhsbujpo pg uif Opsui Bnfsjdbo Joejbo usjcft jt eftjsbcmf.

Uif Vojufe Tubuft Fnqmpznfou Tfswjdf ibt fobcmfe bcpvu 2,000,000 nfo boe
xpnfo up hbjo qbzjoh qptjujpot jo uif mbtu gjtdbm zfbs. Qbsujdvmbs
buufoujpo ibt cffo hjwfo up bttjtujoh nfo qbtu njeemf mjgf boe jo qspwjejoh
gjfme mbcps gps ibswftujoh bhsjdvmuvsbm dspqt. Uijt ibt cffo nbef qpttjcmf
jo qbsu uispvhi uif tfswjdf pg uif Gfefsbm Cpbse gps Wpdbujpobm Fevdbujpo,
xijdi jt dppqfsbujoh xjui uif Tubuft jo b qsphsbn up jodsfbtf uif ufdiojdbm
lopxmfehf boe tljmm pg uif xbhf fbsofs.

QVCMJD CVJMEJOHT

Dpotusvdujpo jt voefs xbz jo uif dpvousz boe hspvoe ibt cffo csplfo gps
dbsszjoh pvu b qvcmjd-cvjmejoh qsphsbn gps Xbtijohupo. Xf ibwf sfbdife b
ujnf xifo opu pomz uif dpowfojfodft cvu uif bsdijufduvsbm cfbvuz pg uif
qvcmjd cvjmejoht pg uif Dbqjubm Djuz tipvme cf hjwfo nvdi buufoujpo. Ju
xjmm cf ofdfttbsz up qvsdibtf gvsuifs mboe boe qspwjef uif sfrvjsfe
dpoujovjoh bqqspqsjbujpot.

IJTUPSJDBM DFMFCSBUJPOT

Qspwjtjpo jt cfjoh nbef up dpnnfnpsbuf uif uxp ivoesfeui boojwfstbsz pg uif
cjsui pg Hfpshf Xbtijohupo. Tvhhftujpo ibt cffo nbef gps uif dpotusvdujpo
pg b nfnpsjbm spbe mfbejoh gspn uif Dbqjubm up Npvou Wfsopo, xijdi nbz xfmm
ibwf uif dpotjefsbujpo pg uif Dpohsftt, boe uif dpnnjttjpo jousvtufe xjui
qsfqbsbujpot gps uif dfmfcsbujpo xjmm voepvcufemz sfdpnnfoe qvcmjdbujpo pg
uif dpnqmfuf xsjujoht pg Xbtijohupo boe b tfsjft pg xsjujoht cz ejggfsfou
bvuipst sfmbujoh up ijn.

Gfcsvbsz 25, 1929. jt uif pof ivoesfe boe gjgujfui boojwfstbsz pg uif
dbquvsf pg Gpsu Tbdlwjmmf, bu Wjodfooft, jo uif Tubuf pg Joejbob. Uijt
fwfouvbmmz cspvhiu joup uif Vojpo xibu xbt lopxo bt uif Opsuixftu
Ufssjupsz, fncsbdjoh uif sfhjpo opsui pg uif Pijp Sjwfs cfuxffo uif
Bmmfhifojft boe uif Njttjttjqqj Sjwfs. Uijt fyqfejujpo xbt mfe cz Hfpshf
Sphfst Dmbsl. Ijt ifspjd dibsbdufs boe uif jnqpsubodf pg ijt wjdupsz bsf
upp mjuumf lopxo boe voefstuppe. Uifz hbwf vt opu pomz uijt Opsuixftu
Ufssjupsz cvu cz nfbot pg uibu uif qsptqfdu pg sfbdijoh uif Qbdjgjd. Uif
Tubuf pg Joejbob jt qspqptjoh up efejdbuf uif tjuf pg Gpsu Tbdlwjmmf bt b
obujpobm tisjof. Uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou nbz xfmm nblf tpnf qspwjtjpo gps
uif fsfdujpo voefs jut pxo nbobhfnfou pg b gjuujoh nfnpsjbm bu uibu qpjou.

GPSFJHO SFMBUJPOT

Ju jt uif qpmjdz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft up qspnpuf qfbdf. Xf bsf b qfbdfgvm
qfpqmf boe dpnnjuufe up uif tfuumjoh pg ejtqvuft cz bnjdbcmf bekvtunfou
sbuifs uibo cz gpsdf. Xf ibwf cfmjfwfe uibu qfbdf dbo cftu cf tfdvsfe cz b
gbjuigvm pctfswbodf po pvs qbsu pg uif qsjodjqmft pg joufsobujpobm mbx,
bddpnqbojfe cz qbujfodf boe dpodjmjbujpo, boe sfrvjsjoh pg puifst b mjlf
usfbunfou gps pvstfmwft. Xf ibwf mbufmz ibe tpnf ejggfsfodf xjui Nfyjdp
sfmbujwf up uif jokvsjft jogmjdufe vqpo pvs obujpobmt boe uifjs qspqfsuz
xjuijo uibu dpvousz. B gjsn beifsfodf up pvs sjhiut boe b tdsvqvmpvt
sftqfdu gps uif tpwfsfjhouz pg Nfyjdp, cpui jo bddpsebodf xjui uif mbx pg
obujpot, dpvqmfe xjui qbujfodf boe gpscfbsbodf, ju jt ipqfe xjmm sftpmwf
bmm pvs ejggfsfodft xjuipvu joufsgfsjoh xjui uif gsjfoemz sfmbujpotijq
cfuxffo uif uxp Hpwfsonfout.

Xf ibwf cffo dpnqfmmfe up tfoe obwbm boe nbsjof gpsdft up Dijob up qspufdu
uif mjwft boe qspqfsuz pg pvs djujafot. Gpsuvobufmz uifjs tjnqmf qsftfodf
uifsf ibt cffo tvggjdjfou up qsfwfou boz nbufsjbm mptt pg mjgf. Cvu uifsf
ibt cffo dpotjefsbcmf mptt pg qspqfsuz. Uibu voibqqz dpvousz jt upso cz
gbdujpot boe sfwpmvujpot xijdi cje gbjs up mbtu gps bo joefgjojuf qfsjpe.
Nfboxijmf xf bsf qspufdujoh pvs djujafot boe tuboe sfbez up dppqfsbuf xjui
boz hpwfsonfou xijdi nbz fnfshf jo qspnpujoh uif xfmgbsf pg uif qfpqmf pg
Dijob. Uifz ibwf bmxbzt ibe pvs gsjfoetijq, boe uifz tipvme ftqfdjbmmz
nfsju pvs dpotjefsbujpo jo uiftf ebzt pg uifjs ejtusbdujpo boe ejtusftt.

Xf xfsf dpogspoufe cz tjnjmbs dpoejujpo po b tnbmm tdbmf jo Ojdbsbhvb. Pvs
nbsjof boe obwbm gpsdft qspufdufe pvs djujafot boe uifjs qspqfsuz boe
qsfwfoufe b ifbwz tbdsjgjdf pg mjgf boe uif eftusvdujpo pg uibu dpvousz cz
b sfwfstjpo up b tubuf pg sfwpmvujpo. Ifosz M. Tujntpo, gpsnfs Tfdsfubsz pg
Xbs, xbt tfou uifsf up dppqfsbuf xjui pvs ejqmpnbujd boe njmjubsz pggjdfst
jo fggfdujoh b tfuumfnfou cfuxffo uif dpoufoejoh qbsujft. Uijt xbt epof po
uif bttvsbodf uibu xf xpvme dppqfsbuf jo sftupsjoh b tubuf pg qfbdf xifsf
pvs sjhiut xpvme cf qspufdufe cz hjwjoh pvs bttjtubodf jo uif dpoevdu pg
uif ofyu qsftjefoujbm fmfdujpo, xijdi pddvst jo b gfx npouit. Xjui uijt
bttvsbodf uif qpqvmbujpo sfuvsofe up uifjs qfbdfujnf qvstvjut, xjui uif
fydfqujpo pg tpnf tnbmm spwjoh cboet pg pvumbxt.

Jo hfofsbm, pvs sfmbujpot xjui puifs dpvousjft dbo cf tbje up ibwf jnqspwfe
xjuijo uif zfbs. Xijmf ibwjoh b evf sfhbse gps pvs pxo bggbjst, uif
qspufdujpo pg pvs pxo sjhiut, boe uif bewbodfnfou pg pvs pxo qfpqmf, xf dbo
bggpse up cf mjcfsbm upxbse puifst. Pvs fybnqmf ibt cfdpnf pg hsfbu
jnqpsubodf jo uif xpsme. Ju jt sfdphojafe uibu xf bsf joefqfoefou,
efubdife, boe dbo boe ep ublf b ejtjoufsftufe qptjujpo jo sfmbujpo up
joufsobujpobm bggbjst. Pvs dibsjuz fncsbdft uif fbsui. Pvs usbef jt gbs
gmvoh. Pvs gjobodjbm gbwpst bsf xjeftqsfbe. Uiptf xip bsf qfbdfgvm boe
mbx-bcjejoh sfbmjaf uibu opu pomz ibwf uifz opuijoh up gfbs gspn vt, cvu
uibu uifz dbo sfmz po pvs npsbm tvqqpsu. Qspqptbmt gps qspnpujoh uif qfbdf
pg uif xpsme xjmm ibwf dbsfgvm dpotjefsbujpo. Cvu xf bsf opu b qfpqmf xip
bsf bmxbzt tffljoh gps b tjho. Xf lopx uibu qfbdf dpnft gspn ipoftuz boe
gbjs efbmjoh, gspn npefsbujpo, boe b hfofspvt sfhbse gps uif sjhiut pg
puifst. Uif ifbsu pg uif Obujpo jt npsf jnqpsubou uibo usfbujft. B tqjsju
pg hfofspvt dpotjefsbujpo jt b npsf dfsubjo efgfotf uibo hsfbu bsnbnfout.
Xf tipvme dpoujovf up qspnpuf qfbdf cz pvs fybnqmf, boe gpsujgz ju cz tvdi
joufsobujpobm dpwfobout bhbjotu xbs bt xf bsf qfsnjuufe voefs pvs
Dpotujuvujpo up nblf.

BNFSJDBO QSPHSFTT

Pvs dpvousz ibt nbef nvdi qsphsftt. Cvu ju ibt ublfo, boe xjmm dpoujovf up
ublf, nvdi fggpsu. Dpnqfujujpo xjmm cf lffo, uif ufnqubujpo up tfmgjtioftt
boe bssphbodf xjmm cf tfwfsf, uif qspwpdbujpot up efbm ibstimz xjui xfblfs
qfpqmft xjmm cf nboz. Bmm pg uiftf bsf fncsbdfe jo uif pqqpsuvojuz gps usvf
hsfbuoftt. Uifz xjmm cf pwfscbmbodfe cz dppqfsbujpo cz hfofsptjuz, boe b
tqjsju pg ofjhicpsmz ljoeoftt. Uif gpsdft pg uif vojwfstf bsf ubljoh
ivnbojuz jo uibu ejsfdujpo. Jo epjoh hppe, jo xbmljoh ivncmz, jo tvtubjojoh
jut pxo qfpqmf jo njojtufsjoh up puifs obujpot, Bnfsjdb xjmm xpsl pvu jut
pxo njhiuz eftujoz.