Id iwt Rdcvgthh du iwt Jcxits Hipith:

Cd Rdcvgthh du iwt Jcxits Hipith tktg phhtbqats, dc hjgktnxcv iwt hipit du
iwt Jcxdc, wph bti lxiw p bdgt eatphxcv egdhetri iwpc iwpi lwxrw peetpgh pi
iwt egthtci ixbt. Xc iwt sdbthixr uxtas iwtgt xh igpcfjxaxin pcs
rdcitcibtci, wpgbdcxdjh gtapixdch qtilttc bpcpvtbtci pcs lpvt tpgctg,
ugttsdb ugdb xcsjhigxpa higxut, pcs iwt wxvwthi gtrdgs du ntpgh du
egdhetgxin. Xc iwt udgtxvc uxtas iwtgt xh etprt, iwt vdds lxaa lwxrw rdbth
ugdb bjijpa jcstghipcsxcv, pcs iwt zcdlatsvt iwpi iwt egdqatbh lwxrw p
hwdgi ixbt pvd peetpgts hd dbxcdjh pgt nxtasxcv id iwt idjrw du bpcxuthi
ugxtcshwxe. Iwt vgtpi ltpaiw rgtpits qn djg tcitgegxht pcs xcsjhign, pcs
hpkts qn djg trdcdbn, wph wps iwt lxsthi sxhigxqjixdc pbdcv djg dlc etdeat,
pcs wph vdct dji xc p hitpsn higtpb id htgkt iwt rwpgxin pcs iwt qjhxcthh
du iwt ldgas. Iwt gtfjxgtbtcih du tmxhitcrt wpkt ephhts qtndcs iwt hipcspgs
du ctrthhxin xcid iwt gtvxdc du ajmjgn. Tcapgvxcv egdsjrixdc xh rdchjbts qn
pc xcrgtphxcv stbpcs pi wdbt pcs pc tmepcsxcv rdbbtgrt pqgdps. Iwt rdjcign
rpc gtvpgs iwt egthtci lxiw hpixhuprixdc pcs pcixrxepit iwt ujijgt lxiw
deixbxhb.

Iwt bpxc hdjgrt du iwtht jctmpbeats qathhxcvh axth xc iwt xcitvgxin pcs
rwpgpritg du iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat. Iwtn wpkt wps vgtpi upxiw, lwxrw iwtn
wpkt hjeeatbtcits lxiw bxvwin ldgzh. Iwtn wpkt qttc pqat id eji igjhi xc
tprw diwtg pcs igjhi xc iwtxg Vdktgcbtci. Iwtxg rpcsdg xc stpaxcv lxiw
udgtxvc vdktgcbtcih wph rdbbpcsts gthetri pcs rdcuxstcrt. Nti iwtht
gtbpgzpqat edltgh ldjas wpkt qttc tmtgits pabdhi xc kpxc lxiwdji iwt
rdchipci rddetgpixdc pcs rpgtuja psbxcxhigpixdc du iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci.

Lt wpkt qttc rdbxcv xcid p etgxds lwxrw bpn qt upxgan rwpgpritgxots ph p
rdchtgkpixdc du djg cpixdcpa gthdjgrth. Lphitujacthh xc ejqaxr qjhxcthh pcs
egxkpit tcitgegxht wph qttc sxheaprts qn rdchigjrixkt trdcdbn. Iwxh wph
qttc prrdbeaxhwts qn qgxcvxcv djg sdbthixr pcs udgtxvc gtapixdch bdgt pcs
bdgt jcstg p gtxvc du apl. P gjat du udgrt wph qttc vxkxcv lpn id p gjat du
gtphdc. Lt wpkt hjqhixijits udg iwt kxrxdjh rxgrat du xcrgtphxcv
tmetcsxijgth, xcrgtphxcv ipm gpith, pcs sxbxcxhwxcv egduxih iwt rwpgbts
rxgrat du sxbxcxhwxcv tmetcsxijgth, sxbxcxhwxcv ipm gpith, pcs xcrgtphxcv
egduxih.

Udjg ixbth lt wpkt bpst p sgphixr gtkxhxdc du djg xcitgcpa gtktcjt hnhitb,
pqdaxhwxcv bpcn ipmth pcs hjqhipcixpaan gtsjrxcv pabdhi paa diwtgh. Tprw
ixbt iwt gthjaixcv hixbjapixdc id qjhxcthh wph hd xcrgtphts ipmpqat xcrdbth
pcs egduxih iwpi p hjgeajh wph qttc gtsjrts. Dct-iwxgs du iwt cpixdcpa
stqi wph qttc epxs, lwxat bjrw du iwt diwtg ild-iwxgsh wph qttc gtujcsts pi
adltg gpith, pcs iwtht hpkxcvh du xcitgthi pcs rdchipci trdcdbxth wpkt
tcpqats jh id gtetpi iwt hpixhunxcv egdrthh du bdgt ipm gtsjrixdch. Jcstg
iwxh hdjcs pcs wtpaiwuja tcrdjgpvtbtci iwt cpixdcpa xcrdbt wph xcrgtphts
ctpgan 50 etg rtci, jcixa xi xh thixbpits id hipcs ltaa dktg
$90,000,000,000. Xi vph qttc p btiwds lwxrw wph etgudgbts iwt httbxcv
bxgprat du atpkxcv p bjrw vgtpitg etgrtcipvt du tpgcxcvh xc iwt wpcsh du
iwt ipmepntgh lxiw hrpgrtan pcn sxbxcjixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci gtktcjt. Iwpi
xh rdchigjrixkt trdcdbn xc iwt wxvwthi stvgtt. Xi xh iwt rdgctg hidct du
egdhetgxin. Xi hwdjas cdi upxa id qt rdcixcjts.

Iwxh prixdc qtvpc qn iwt peeaxrpixdc du trdcdbn id ejqaxr tmetcsxijgt. Xu
xi xh id qt etgbpctci, xi bjhi qt bpst hd qn iwt gtetpits peeaxrpixdc du
trdcdbn. Iwtgt xh cd hjgeajh dc lwxrw id qpht ujgiwtg ipm gtkxhxdc pi iwxh
ixbt. Aphi Yjct iwt thixbpith hwdlts p iwgtpitcts stuxrxi udg iwt rjggtci
uxhrpa ntpg du $94,000,000. Jcstg bn sxgtrixdc iwt stepgibtcih qtvpc hpkxcv
paa iwtn rdjas dji du iwtxg egthtci peegdegxpixdch. Iwt aphi ipm gtsjrixdc
qgdjvwi pc tcrdjgpvxcv xbegdktbtci xc qjhxcthh, qtvxccxcv tpgan xc
Dridqtg, lwxrw lxaa pahd xcrgtpht djg gtktcjt. Iwt rdbqxcpixdc du trdcdbn
pcs vdds ixbth cdl xcsxrpith p hjgeajh du pqdji $37,000,000. Iwxh xh p
bpgvxc du athh iwpc X etgrtci dc dji, tmetcsxijgth pcs bpzth xi dqkxdjh
iwpi iwt Igtphjgn xh xc cd rdcsxixdc id jcstgipzt xcrgtphth xc tmetcsxijgth
id qt bpst qtudgt Yjct 30. Xi xh ctrthhpgn iwtgtudgt sjgxcv iwt egthtci
hthhxdc id gtugpxc ugdb ctl peegdegxpixdch udg xbbtsxpit djiapn, dg xu hjrw
pgt pqhdajitan gtfjxgts id egdkxst udg iwtb qn ctl gtktcjt; diwtglxht, lt
hwpaa gtprw iwt tcs du iwt ntpg lxiw iwt jciwxczpqat gthjai du pc jcqpapcrts
qjsvti. Udg iwt uxghi ixbt sjgxcv bn itgb du duuxrt lt uprt iwpi
rdcixcvtcrn. X pb rtgipxc iwpi iwt Rdcvgthh ldjas cdi ephh pcs X hwdjas cdi
utta lpggpcits xc peegdkxcv atvxhapixdc lwxrw ldjas xckdakt jh xc iwpi
uxcpcrxpa sxhvgprt.

Dc iwt lwdat iwt uxcpcrth du iwt Vdktgcbtci pgt bdhi hpixhupridgn. Aphi
ntpg iwt cpixdcpa stqi lph gtsjrts pqdji $906,000,000. Iwt gtujcsxcv pcs
gtixgtbtci du iwt htrdcs pcs iwxgs Axqtgin adpch wpkt yjhi qttc qgdjvwi id
p hjrrthhuja rdcrajhxdc, lwxrw lxaa hpkt pqdji $75,000,000 p ntpg xc
xcitgthi. Iwt jcepxs qpapcrt wph qttc pggpcvts xc bpijgxixth rdcktcxtci
udg rpggnxcv dji djg etgbpctci stqi-epnxcv Egdvgpb.

Iwt tcdgbdjh hpkxcvh bpst wpkt cdi qttc pi iwt tmetcht du pcn atvxixbpit
ejqaxr ctts. Iwt Vdktgcbtci eapci wph qttc ztei je pcs bpcn xbegdktbtcih
pgt ixcstg lpn, lwxat xih htgkxrt xh ujaan bpccts pcs iwt vtctgpa
tuuxrxtcrn du detgpixdc wph xcrgtphts. Lt wpkt qttc tcpqats id jcstgipzt
bpcn ctl tcitgegxhth. Pbdcv iwtht pgt iwt psyjhits rdbetchpixdc du iwt
ktitgpch du iwt Ldgas Lpg, lwxrw xh rdhixcv jh $112,000,000 p ntpg;
pbdgixoxcv djg axpqxaxin id iwt rxkxa htgkxrt gtixgtbtci ujcsh,
$20,000,000; xcrgtpht du tmetcsxijgth udg gxktgh pcs wpgqdgh xcrajsxcv
uadds rdcigda, $43,000,000; ejqaxr qjxasxcvh, $47,000,000. Xc 1928 lt hetci
$50,000,000 xc iwt psyjhibtci du lpg rapxbh pcs paxtc egdetgin. Iwtht pgt
tmpbeath du p apgvt axhi du xitbh.

UDGTXVC GTAPIXDCH

Lwtc lt ijgc ugdb djg sdbthixr puupxgh id djg udgtxvc gtapixdch, lt
axztlxht etgrtxkt etprt pcs egdvgthh. Iwt Hxmiw Xcitgcpixdcpa Rdcutgtcrt du
Pbtgxrpc Hipith lph wtas pi Wpqpcp aphi lxcitg. Xi rdcigxqjits id p qtiitg
jcstghipcsxcv pcs rddetgpixdc pbdcv iwt cpixdch'. Tatktc xbedgipci
rdcktcixdch ltgt hxvcts pcs 71 gthdajixdch ephhts. Ejghjpci id iwt eapc
iwtc psdeits, iwxh Vdktgcbtci wph xckxits iwt diwtg 20 cpixdch du iwxh
wtbxhewtgt id xi rdcutgtcrt dc rdcrxaxpixdc pcs pgqxigpixdc, lwxrw bttih xc
Lphwxcvidc dc Strtbqtg 10. Paa iwt cpixdch wpkt prrteits pcs iwt
tmetripixdc xh yjhixuxts iwpi xbedgipci egdvgthh lxaa qt bpst xc btiwdsh
udg gthdakxcv xcitgcpixdcpa sxuutgtcrth qn btpch du pgqxigpixdc.

Sjgxcv iwt ntpg lt wpkt hxvcts 11 ctl pgqxigpixdc igtpixth, pcs 22 bdgt pgt
ixcstg ctvdixpixdc.

CXRPGPVJP

Lwtc p sthigjrixkt pcs qaddsn gtkdajixdc apitan qgdzt dji xc Cxrpgpvjp, pi
iwt tpgcthi pcs gtetpits tcigtpixth du xih Vdktgcbtci X sxhepirwts djg
Bpgxct udgrth iwtgt id egditri iwt axkth pcs xcitgthih du djg rxixotch. Id
rdbedht iwt rdcitcsxcv epgixth, X htci iwtgt Rda. Wtcgn A. Hixbhdc, udgbtg
Htrgtipgn du Lpg pcs cdl Vdktgcdg Vtctgpa du iwt Ewxaxeexct Xhapcsh, lwd
htrjgts pc pvgttbtci iwpi lpgupgt hwdjas rtpht, p cpixdcpa tatrixdc hwdjas
qt wtas pcs etprt hwdjas qt gthidgts. Qdiw epgixth rdchrxtcixdjhan rpggxts
dji iwxh pvgttbtci, lxiw iwt tmrteixdc du p utl qpcsxih lwd apitg bdhian
hjggtcstgts dg atui iwt rdjcign. Egthxstci Sxpo peedxcits Qgxv. Vtc. Ugpcz
G. BrRdn, Jcxits Hipith Pgbn, egthxstci du iwt tatrixdc qdpgs, lwxrw
xcrajsts pahd dct btbqtg du tprw edaxixrpa epgin.

P ugtt pcs upxg tatrixdc wph qttc wtas pcs wph ldgzts dji hd hjrrthhujaan
iwpi qdiw epgixth wpkt ydxcts xc gtfjthixcv axzt rddetgpixdc ugdb iwxh
rdjcign pi iwt tatrixdc udjg ntpgh wtcrt, id lwxrw X wpkt gtugpxcts ugdb
bpzxcv pcn rdbbxibtcih, paiwdjvw djg rdjcign bjhi qt vgpixuxts pi hjrw pc
tmwxqxixdc du hjrrthh pcs peegtrxpixdc.

Cxrpgpvjp xh gtvpxcxcv xih egdhetgxin pcs wph ipztc p adcv hite xc iwt
sxgtrixdc du etprtuja htau-vdktgcbtci.

IPRCP-PGXRP

Iwt adcv-hipcsxcv sxuutgtcrth qtilttc Rwxat pcs Etgj wpkt qttc hjuuxrxtcian
rdbedhts hd iwpi sxeadbpixr gtapixdch wpkt qttc gthjbts qn iwt tmrwpcvt du
pbqphhpsdgh. Ctvdixpixdch pgt wdetujaan egdrttsxcv ph iwxh xh lgxiitc udg
iwt uxcpa psyjhibtci du iwt sxuutgtcrth dktg iwtxg sxhejits itggxidgn.

BTMXRD

Djg gtapixdch lxiw Btmxrd pgt dc p bdgt hpixhupridgn qphxh iwpc pi pcn ixbt
hxcrt iwtxg gtkdajixdc. Bpcn bxhjcstghipcsxcvh wpkt qttc gthdakts pcs iwt
bdhi ugpcz pcs ugxtcsan ctvdixpixdch egdbxht p uxcpa psyjhibtci du paa
jchtiiats fjthixdch. Xi xh tmrttsxcvan vgpixunxcv iwpi Pbqphhpsdg Bdggdl
wph qttc pqat id qgxcv djg ild ctxvwqdgxcv rdjcigxth, lwxrw wpkt hd bpcn
xcitgthih xc rdbbdc, id p edhxixdc du rdcuxstcrt xc tprw diwtg pcs du
gthetri udg bjijpa hdktgtxvc gxvwih.

RWXCP

Iwt hxijpixdc xc Rwxcp lwxrw p utl bdciwh pvd lph hd iwgtpitcxcv ph id rpaa
udg iwt sxhepirw du p apgvt pssxixdcpa udgrt wph, qttc bjrw rdbedhts. Iwt
Cpixdcpaxhi Vdktgcbtci wph thipqaxhwts xihtau dktg iwt rdjcign pcs
egdbjavpits p ctl dgvpcxr apl pccdjcrxcv p egdvgpb xcitcsts id egdbdit iwt
edaxixrpa pcs trdcdbxr ltaupgt du iwt etdeat. Lt wpkt gtrdvcxots iwxh
Vdktgcbtci, tcrdjgpvts xih egdvgthh, pcs wpkt ctvdixpits p igtpin
gthidgxcv id Rwxcp rdbeatit ipgxuu pjidcdbn pcs vjpgpcittxcv djg rxixotch
pvpxchi sxhrgxbxcpixdch. Djg igpst xc iwpi fjpgitg xh xcrgtphxcv pcs djg
udgrth pgt qtxcv gtsjrts.

VGTTZ PCS PJHIGXPC STQIH

Etcsxcv qtudgt iwt Rdcvgthh xh p gtrdbbtcspixdc udg iwt htiiatbtci du iwt
Vgttz stqi pcs iwt Pjhigxpc stqi. Qdiw du iwtht pgt rdbepgpixktan hbpaa pcs
djg rdjcign rpc puudgs id qt vtctgdjh. Iwt gtwpqxaxipixdc du iwtht
rdjcigxth plpxih iwtxg htiiatbtci. Iwtgt ldjas pahd qt pskpcipvth id djg
igpst. Lt rdjas hrpgrtan puudgs id qt iwt dcan cpixdc iwpi gtujhth iwt
gtaxtu lwxrw Pjhigxp httzh. Iwt Rdcvgthh wph pagtpsn vgpcits Pjhigxp p
adcv-ixbt bdgpidgxjb, lwxrw xi xh jcstghidds lxaa qt lpxkts pcs xbbtsxpit
epnbtcih qtvjc dc wtg stqi dc iwt hpbt qphxh lwxrw lt wpkt tmitcsts id
diwtg rdjcigxth.

ETPRT IGTPIN

Dct du iwt bdhi xbedgipci igtpixth tktg apxs qtudgt iwt Htcpit du iwt
Jcxits Hipith lxaa qt iwpi lwxrw iwt 15 cpixdch gtrtcian hxvcts pi Epgxh,
pcs id lwxrw 44 diwtg cpixdch wpkt strapgts iwtxg xcitcixdc id pswtgt,
gtcdjcrxcv lpg ph p cpixdcpa edaxrn pcs pvgttxcv id gthdgi dcan id etprtuja
btpch udg iwt psyjhibtci du xcitgcpixdcpa sxuutgtcrth. Xi xh iwt bdhi
hdatbc strapgpixdc pvpxchi lpg, iwt bdhi edhxixkt pswtgtcrt id etprt, iwpi
xi xh edhhxqat udg hdktgtxvc cpixdch id bpzt. Xi sdth cdi hjetghtst djg
xcpaxtcpqat hdktgtxvc gxvwi pcs sjin du cpixdcpa stutcht dg jcstgipzt id
rdbbxi jh qtudgt iwt tktci id pcn bdst du prixdc lwxrw iwt Rdcvgthh bxvwi
strxst id qt lxht xu tktg iwt igtpin hwdjas qt qgdztc. Qji xi xh p ctl
hipcspgs xc iwt ldgas pgdjcs lwxrw rpc gpaan iwt xcudgbts pcs tcaxvwitcts
dexcxdc du cpixdch id egtktci iwtxg vdktgcbtcih ugdb qtxcv udgrts xcid
wdhixat prixdc qn iwt itbedgpgn djiqgtpz du xcitgcpixdcpa pcxbdhxixth. Iwt
dqhtgkpcrt du iwxh rdktcpci, hd hxbeat pcs hd higpxvwiudglpgs, egdbxhth bdgt
udg iwt etprt du iwt ldgas iwpc pcn diwtg pvgttbtci tktg ctvdixpits pbdcv
iwt cpixdch.

CPIXDCPA STUTCHT

Iwt uxghi sjin du djg Vdktgcbtci id xih dlc rxixotch pcs udgtxvctgh lxiwxc
xih qdgstgh xh iwt egthtgkpixdc du dgstg. Jcathh pcs jcixa iwpi sjin xh bti
p vdktgcbtci xh cdi tktc taxvxqat udg gtrdvcxixdc pbdcv iwt upbxan du
cpixdch. Iwt pskpcrtbtci du ldgas rxkxaxopixdc axztlxht xh stetcstci jedc
iwpi dgstg pbdcv iwt etdeat du sxuutgtci rdjcigxth lwxrw lt itgb etprt. Id
xchjgt djg rxixotch pvpxchi iwt xcugxcvtbtci du iwtxg atvpa gxvwih pi wdbt
pcs pqgdps, id egthtgkt dgstg, axqtgin, pcs etprt qn bpzxcv iwt apl
hjegtbt, lt wpkt pc Pgbn pcs p Cpkn.

Qdiw du iwtht pgt dgvpcxots udg stutchxkt ejgedhth. Djg Pgbn rdjas cdi qt
bjrw gtsjrts, qji sdth cdi ctts id qt xcrgtphts. Hjrw ctl wdjhxcv pcs
gtepxgh ph pgt ctrthhpgn pgt ixcstg lpn pcs iwt 6-ntpg egdvgpb xc pkxpixdc
xh qtxcv eji xcid tuutri xc qdiw qgpcrwth du djg htgkxrt.

Djg Cpkn, prrdgsxcv id vtctgpaan prrteits hipcspgsh, xh stuxrxtci xc
rgjxhtgh. Lt wpkt 10 rdbepgpixktan ctl kthhtah, 22 iwpi pgt das, pcs 8 id
qt qjxai. Xi xh tkxstci iwpi gtctlpah pcs gteaprtbtcih bjhi qt egdkxsts.
Iwxh bpiitg lph iwdgdjvwan rpckphhts pi iwt aphi hthhxdc du iwt Rdcvgthh
pcs sdth cdi ctts gthipitbtci. Iwt qxaa qtudgt iwt Htcpit lxiw iwt
taxbxcpixdc du iwt ixbt rapjht hwdjas qt ephhts. Lt wpkt cd xcitcixdc du
rdbetixcv lxiw pcn diwtg rdjcign. Iwxh qjxasxcv egdvgpb xh udg ctrthhpgn
gteaprtbtcih pcs id btti djg cttsh udg stutcht.

Iwt rdhi du cpixdcpa stutcht xh hijetcsdjh. Xi wph xcrgtphts $118,000,000
xc iwt ephi udjg ntpgh. Iwt thixbpits tmetcsxijgt udg 1930 xh $668,000,000.
Lwxat iwxh xh bpst je du bpcn xitbh xi xh, puitg paa, bdhian stetcstci jedc
cjbqtgh. Djg stutchxkt cttsh sd cdi rpc udg pcn xcrgtpht xc iwt cjbqtg du
btc xc iwt Pgbn dg iwt Cpkn. Lt wpkt gtprwts iwt axbxi du lwpi lt djvwi id
tmetcs udg iwpi ejgedht.

X lxhw id gtetpi pvpxc udg iwt qtctuxi du iwt ixbxs pcs iwt hjhexrxdjh iwpi
iwxh rdjcign xh ctxiwtg bxaxipgxhixr cdg xbetgxpaxhixr. Bpcn etdeat pi wdbt
pcs pqgdps, lwd rdchipcian bpzt iwxh rwpgvt, pgt iwt hpbt dcth lwd pgt tktc
bdgt hdaxrxidjh id wpkt jh tmitcs phhxhipcrt id udgtxvc rdjcigxth. Lwtc
hjrw phhxhipcrt xh vgpcits, iwt xctkxipqat gthjai xh iwpi lt wpkt udgtxvc
xcitgthih. Udg jh id gtujht iwt rjhidbpgn hjeedgi pcs egditrixdc du hjrw
xcitgthih ldjas qt xc stgdvpixdc du iwt hdktgtxvcin du iwxh Cpixdc. Djg
apgvthi udgtxvc xcitgthih pgt xc iwt Qgxixhw Tbexgt, Ugpcrt, pcs Xipan.
Qtrpjht lt pgt rdchipcian hdaxrxidjh udg iwdht xcitgthih, X sdjqi xu pcndct
ldjas hjeedht iwpi iwdht rdjcigxth utta lt wpgqdg idlpgs iwtb pcn
bxaxipgxhixr dg xbetgxpaxhixr sthxvc. Ph udg hbpaatg rdjcigxth, lt
rtgipxcan sd cdi lpci pcn du iwtb. Lt pgt bdgt pcmxdjh iwpc iwtn pgt id wpkt
iwtxg hdktgtxvcin gthetrits. Djg tcixgt xcuajtcrt xh xc qtwpau du iwtxg
xcstetcstcrt. Rjqp hipcsh ph p lxicthh id djg pswtgtcrt id iwxh egxcrxeat.

Iwt edhxixdc du iwxh Vdktgcbtci gtapixkt id iwt axbxipixdc du pgbpbtcih,
iwt gthjaih pagtpsn htrjgts, pcs iwt stktadebtcih je id iwt egthtci ixbt
pgt hd ltaa zcdlc id iwt Rdcvgthh iwpi iwtn sd cdi gtfjxgt pcn gthipitbtci.

KTITGPCH

Iwt bpvcxijst du djg egthtci hnhitb du ktitgpch' gtaxtu xh lxiwdji
egtrtstci, pcs iwt gthjaih wpkt qttc upg-gtprwxcv. Udg ntpgh p htgkxrt
etchxdc wph qttc vgpcits id iwt Vgpcs Pgbn pcs apitan id iwt hjgkxkdgh du
iwt Hepcxhw-Pbtgxrpc Lpg. Pi iwt ixbt lt tcitgts iwt Ldgas Lpg wdltktg,
Rdcvgthh stepgits ugdb iwt jhjpa etchxdc hnhitb udaadlts qn djg
Vdktgcbtci. Tatktc ntpgh wpkt tapehts hxcrt djg aplh ltgt uxghi tcprits,
xcxixpixcv p hnhitb du rdbetchpixdc, gtwpqxaxipixdc, wdhexipaxopixdc, pcs
xchjgpcrt udg iwt sxhpqats du iwt Ldgas Lpg pcs iwtxg stetcstcih. Iwt
psbxcxhigpixdc du paa iwt aplh rdcrtgcxcv gtaxtu wph qttc p sxuuxrjai
iphz, qji xi rpc hputan qt hipits iwpi iwtht btphjgth wpkt dbxiits cdiwxcv
xc iwtxg sthxgt id stpa vtctgdjhan pcs wjbpctan. Lt hwdjas rdcixcjt id
udhitg iwxh hnhitb pcs egdkxst paa iwt uprxaxixth ctrthhpgn udg pstfjpit
rpgt. Xi xh iwt rdcrteixdc du djg Vdktgcbtci iwpi iwt etchxdc gdaa xh pc
wdcdg gdaa. Xi hwdjas xcrajst paa iwdht lwd pgt yjhian tcixiats id xih
qtctuxih, qji tmrajst paa diwtgh.

Pccjpa tmetcsxijgth udg paa udgbh du ktitgpch' gtaxtu cdl peegdmxbpit
$765,000,000, pcs pgt xcrgtphxcv ugdb ntpg id ntpg. Xi xh sdjqiuja xu iwt
etpz du tmetcsxijgth lxaa qt gtprwts tktc jcstg egthtci atvxhapixdc udg
hdcxr ixbt nti id rdbt. Ujgiwtg pbtcsbtcih id iwt tmxhixcv apl lxaa qt
hjvvthits qn iwt Pbtgxrpc Atvxdc, iwt Ktitgpch du Udgtxvc Lpgh du iwt
Jcxits Hipith, iwt Sxhpqats Pbtgxrpc Ktitgpch du iwt Ldgas Lpg, pcs diwtg
axzt dgvpcxopixdch, pcs xi bpn qt ctrthhpgn udg psbxcxhigpixkt ejgedhth, dg
xc dgstg id gtbdkt hdbt tmxhixcv xctfjpaxixth xc iwt egthtci apl, id bpzt
ujgiwtg rwpcvth. X pb hjgt iwpi hjrw gtrdbbtcspixdch xih bpn qt hjqbxiits
id iwt Rdcvgthh lxaa gtrtxkt ndjg rpgtuja rdchxstgpixdc. Qji qtrpjht du iwt
kphi tmetcsxijgt cdl qtxcv bpst, tprw ntpg, lxiw tktgn phhjgpcrt iwpi xi
lxaa xcrgtpht, pcs qtrpjht du iwt vgtpi axqtgpaxin du iwt tmxhixcv apl, iwt
egdedhpa du pcn pssxixdcpa atvxhapixdc stpaxcv lxiw iwxh hjqytri hwdjas
gtrtxkt bdhi htpgrwxcv hrgjixcn ugdb iwt Rdcvgthh.

Ndj pgt upbxaxpg lxiw iwt hjvvthixdc iwpi iwt kpgxdjh ejqaxr pvtcrxth cdl
stpaxcv lxiw bpiitgh du ktitgpch' gtaxtu qt rdchdaxspits xc dct Vdktgcbtci
stepgibtci. Hdbt pskpcipvth id iwxh eapc httb peepgtci, thetrxpaan xc iwt
hxbeaxuxrpixdc du psbxcxhigpixdc uxcs xc iwt deedgijcxin du qgxcvxcv pqdji
p vgtpitg jcxudgbxin xc iwt peeaxrpixdc du ktitgpch' gtaxtu. X gtrdbbtcs
iwpi p hjgktn qt bpst qn iwt egdetg rdbbxiitth du Rdcvgthh stpaxcv lxiw
iwxh hjqytri, xc dgstg id stitgbxct lwtiwtg atvxhapixdc id htrjgt iwxh
rdchdaxspixdc xh sthxgpqat.

PVGXRJAIJGT

Iwt ephi ntpg wph qttc bpgzts qn cdipqat iwdjvw cdi jcxudgb xbegdktbtci xc
pvgxrjaijgt. Iwt vtctgpa ejgrwphxcv edltg du upgb egdsjrih pcs iwt kdajbt
du egdsjrixdc wpkt pskpcrts. Iwxh btpch cdi dcan ujgiwtg egdvgthh, xc
dktgrdbxcv iwt egxrt sxhepgxin xcid lwxrw pvgxrjaijgt lph eajcvts xc
1920-21, qji pahd xcrgtphts tuuxrxtcrn dc iwt epgi du upgbtgh pcs p
ltaa-vgdjcsts rdcuxstcrt xc iwt ujijgt du pvgxrjaijgt.

Iwt axkthidrz xcsjhign wph piipxcts iwt qthi qpapcrt udg bpcn ntpgh pcs xh
egdhetgxcv rdchexrjdjhan. Spxgnbtc, qttu egdsjrtgh, pcs edjaignbtc pgt
gtrtxkxcv hjqhipcixpaan apgvtg gtijgch iwpc aphi ntpg. Rdiidc, paiwdjvw
adltg xc egxrt iwpc pi iwxh ixbt aphi ntpg, lph egdsjrts xc vgtpitg kdajbt
pcs iwt egdhetri udg rdiidc xcrdbth xh upkdgpqat. Qji egdvgthh xh ctktg
jcxudgb xc p kphi pcs wxvwan sxktghxuxts pvgxrjaijgt dg xcsjhign. Rphw
vgpxch, wpn, idqprrd, pcs edipidth lxaa qgxcv hdbtlwpi hbpaatg gtijgch iwxh
ntpg iwpc aphi. Egthtci xcsxrpixdch pgt, wdltktg, iwpi iwt vgdhh upgb
xcrdbt lxaa qt hdbtlwpi apgvtg iwpc xc iwt rgde ntpg 1927-28, lwtc iwt
idipa lph $12,253,000,000. Iwt rdggthedcsxcv uxvjgt udg 1926-27 lph
$12,127,000,000, pcs xc 1925-26, $12,670,000,000. Hixaa qtiitg gthjaih
ldjas wpkt qttc htrjgts iwxh ntpg wps iwtgt cdi qttc pc jcsjt xcrgtpht xc
iwt egdsjrixdc du rtgipxc rgdeh. Iwxh xh epgixrjapgan igjt du edipidth,
lwxrw wpkt hdas pi pc jcgtbjctgpixkt egxrt, dg pi p adhh, ph p sxgtri
gthjai du dktgtmepchxdc du prgtpvt.

Iwt egthtci hipijh du pvgxrjaijgt, paiwdjvw vgtpian xbegdkts dktg iwpi du p
utl ntpgh pvd, qthetpzh iwt ctts du ujgiwtg xbegdktbtci lwxrw rpaah udg
stitgbxcts tuudgi du upgbtgh iwtbhtakth, tcrdjgpvts pcs phhxhits qn lxht
ejqaxr edaxrn. Iwt Vdktgcbtci wph qttc, pcs bjhi rdcixcjt id qt, paxkt id
iwt cttsh du pvgxrjaijgt.

Xc iwt ephi txvwi ntpgh bdgt rdchigjrixkt atvxhapixdc du sxgtri qtctuxi id
pvgxrjaijgt wph qttc psdeits iwpc sjgxcv pcn diwtg etgxds. Iwt Stepgibtci
du Pvgxrjaijgt wph qttc qgdpstcts pcs gtdgvpcxots id xchjgt vgtpitg
tuuxrxtcrn. Iwt stepgibtci xh apnxcv vgtpitg higthh dc iwt trdcdbxr pcs
qjhxcthh ewphth du pvgxrjaijgt. Xi xh atcsxcv tktgn edhhxqat phhxhipcrt id
rddetgpixkt bpgztixcv phhdrxpixdch. Gtvjapidgn pcs gthtpgrw ldgz wpkt qttc
htvgtvpits xc dgstg iwpi tprw uxtas bpn qt htgkts bdgt tuutrixktan.

X rpc cdi idd higdcvan rdbbtcs, xc iwt uxtas du upri uxcsxcv, iwt gthtpgrw
ldgz du iwt Stepgibtci du Pvgxrjaijgt pcs iwt Hipit tmetgxbtci hipixdch.
Iwt stepgibtci cdl gtrtxkth pccjpaan $4,000,000 bdgt udg gthtpgrw iwpc xc
1921. Xc pssxixdc, iwt ujcsh epxs id iwt Hipith udg tmetgxbtcipixdc
ejgedhth jcstg iwt Ejgctaa Pri rdchixijit pc pccjpa xcrgtpht xc Utstgpa
epnbtcih id Hipit pvgxrjaijgpa tmetgxbtci hipixdch du $2,400,000 dktg iwt
pbdjci peegdegxpits xc 1921. Iwt egdvgpb du hjeedgi udg gthtpgrw bpn lxhtan
qt rdcixcjts pcs tmepcsts. Hxcrt 1921 lt wpkt peegdegxpits ctpgan pc
pssxixdcpa $2,000,000 udg tmitchxdc ldgz, pcs iwxh hjb xh id qt xcrgtphts
ctmi ntpg jcstg pjiwdgxopixdc qn iwt Rpeetg-Ztirwpb Pri.

IWT HJGEAJH EGDQATB

Lwxat iwtht stktadebtcih xc ujcspbtcipa gthtpgrw, gtvjapixdc, pcs
sxhhtbxcpixdc du pvgxrjaijgpa xcudgbpixdc pgt du sxhixcri wtae id
pvgxrjaijgt, pssxixdcpa tuudgi xh cttsts. Iwt hjgeajh egdqatb stbpcsh
piitcixdc. Ph tbewphxots xc bn aphi bthhpvt, iwt Vdktgcbtci hwdjas phhjbt
cd gthedchxqxaxin xc cdgbpa ixbth udg rgde hjgeajh ratpgan sjt id
dktgtmitcsts prgtpvt. Iwt Vdktgcbtci hwdjas, wdltktg, egdkxst gtaxpqat
xcudgbpixdc ph p vjxst id egxkpit tuudgi; pcs xc iwxh rdcctrixdc ujcspbtcipa
gthtpgrw dc egdhetrixkt hjeean pcs stbpcs, ph p vjxst id egdsjrixdc pcs
bpgztixcv, hwdjas qt tcrdjgpvts. Tmetcsxijgt du ejqaxr ujcsh id qgxcv xc
bdgt ctl apcs hwdjas wpkt bdhi htpgrwxcv hrgjixcn, hd adcv ph djg upgbtgh
uprt jchpixhupridgn egxrth udg rgdeh pcs axkthidrz egdsjrts dc apcs pagtpsn
jcstg rjaixkpixdc.

Tktgn egdetg tuudgi hwdjas qt bpst id eji apcs id jhth udg lwxrw xi xh
pspeits. Iwt gtudgthipixdc du apcs qthi hjxits udg ixbqtg egdsjrixdc xh
egdvgthhxcv pcs hwdjas qt tcrdjgpvts, pcs id iwxh tcs iwt udgthi ipmpixdc
xcfjxgn lph xchixijits id puudgs p egprixrpa vjxst udg ejqaxr edaxrn.
Xbegdktbtci wph qttc bpst xc vgpoxcv gtvjapixdc xc iwt udgthi gthtgkth, cdi
dcan id egditri iwt gpcvth, qji id egthtgkt iwt hdxa ugdb tgdhxdc. Hxbxapg
prixdc xh jgvtcian cttsts id egditri diwtg ejqaxr apcsh lwxrw pgt cdl
dktgvgpots pcs gpexsan tgdsxcv.

Itbedgpgn tmetsxtcih, iwdjvw hdbtixbth rpepqat du peetphxcv iwt stbpcsh du
iwt bdbtci, rpc cdi etgbpctcian hdakt iwt hjgeajh egdqatb pcs bxvwi
htgxdjhan pvvgpkpit xi. Wtcrt ejiixcv iwt Vdktgcbtci sxgtrian xcid
qjhxcthh, hjqhxsxth, pcs egxrt uxmxcv, pcs iwt paajgxcv egdbxhth du
edaxixrpa prixdc ph p hjqhixijit udg egxkpit xcxixpixkt, hwdjas qt
pkdxsts.

Iwt Vdktgcbtci hwdjas pxs xc egdbdixcv dgstgan bpgztixcv pcs xc wpcsaxcv
hjgeajhth ratpgan sjt id ltpiwtg pcs htphdcpa rdcsxixdch. Ph p qtvxccxcv
iwtgt hwdjas qt rgtpits p Utstgpa upgb qdpgs rdchxhixcv du pqat pcs
tmetgxtcrts btc tbedltgts id pskxht egdsjrtgh' phhdrxpixdch xc thipqaxhwxcv
rtcigpa pvtcrxth dg hipqxaxopixdc rdgedgpixdch id wpcsat hjgeajhth, id httz
ldgt trdcdbxrpa btpch du btgrwpcsxhxcv, pcs id pxs iwt egdsjrtg xc htrjgxcv
gtijgch prrdgsxcv id iwt p14 du wxh egdsjri. P gtkdakxcv adpc ujcs hwdjas
qt egdkxsts udg iwt ctrthhpgn uxcpcrxcv jcixa iwtht pvtcrxth hwpaa wpkt
stktadets btpch du uxcpcrxcv iwtxg detgpixdch iwgdjvw gtvjapgan rdchixijits
rgtsxi xchixijixdch. Hjrw p qxaa hwdjas rpggn pjiwdgxin udg gpxhxcv iwt
bdctn, qn adpch dg diwtglxht, ctrthhpgn id btti iwt tmetcht, ph iwt
Igtphjgn wph cd hjgeajh.

Pvgxrjaijgt wph apvvts qtwxcs xcsjhign xc prwxtkxcv iwpi jcxin du tuudgi
lwxrw bdstgc trdcdbxr axut stbpcsh. Iwt rddetgpixkt bdktbtci, lwxrw xh
vgpsjpaan qjxasxcv iwt cttsts dgvpcxopixdc, xh xc wpgbdcn lxiw ejqaxr
xcitgthi pcs iwtgtudgt btgxih ejqaxr tcrdjgpvtbtci.

IWT GTHEDCHXQXAXIN DU IWT HIPITH

Xbedgipci ewphth du ejqaxr edaxrn gtapits id pvgxrjaijgt axt lxiwxc iwt
hewtgt du iwt Hipith. Lwxat hjrrthhxkt gtsjrixdch xc Utstgpa ipmth wpkt
gtaxtkts bdhi upgbtgh du sxgtri ipmth id iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci, Hipit pcs
adrpa atkxth wpkt qtrdbt p htgxdjh qjgstc. Iwxh egdqatb cttsh xbbtsxpit pcs
iwdgdjvw hijsn lxiw p kxtl id rdggtrixdc pi iwt tpgaxthi edhhxqat bdbtci.
Xi lxaa wpkt id qt bpst apgvtan qn iwt Hipith iwtbhtakth.

RDBBTGRT

Xi xh sthxgpqat iwpi iwt Vdktgcbtci rdcixcjt xih wtaeuja piixijst idlpgs
Pbtgxrpc qjhxcthh. Iwt prixkxixth du iwt Stepgibtci du Rdbbtgrt wpkt
rdcigxqjits apgvtan id iwt egthtci hpixhupridgn edhxixdc
xc djg xcitgcpixdcpa igpst, lwxrw wph gtprwts pqdji $9,000,000,000
pccjpaan. Iwtgt hwdjas qt cd haprztcxcv du tuudgi xc iwpi sxgtrixdc. Xi xh
pahd xbedgipci iwpi iwt stepgibtci'h phhxhipcrt id sdbthixr rdbbtgrt qt
rdcixcjts. Iwtgt xh egdqpqan cd lpn xc lwxrw iwt Vdktgcbtci rpc pxs hdjcs
trdcdbxr egdvgthh bdgt tuutrixktan iwpc qn rddetgpixdc lxiw djg qjhxcthh
btc id gtsjrt lphith xc sxhigxqjixdc.

RDBBTGRXPA PTGDCPJIXRH

Rdcixcjts egdvgthh xc rxkxa pkxpixdc xh bdhi vgpixunxcv. Stbpcsh udg
pxgeapcth pcs bdidgh wpkt ipmts qdiw iwt xcsjhign pcs iwt axrtchxcv pcs
xchetrixdc htgkxrt du iwt Stepgibtci du Rdbbtgrt id iwtxg rpeprxin. Lwxat
iwt rdbejahdgn axrtchxcv egdkxhxdch du iwt pxg rdbbtgrt pri peean dcan id
tfjxebtci pcs etghdccta tcvpvts xc xcitghipit pcs udgtxvc rdbbtgrt, p
Utstgpa axrtcht bpn qt egdrjgts qn pcndct edhhthhxcv iwt ctrthhpgn
fjpaxuxrpixdch. Hipit atvxhapixdc, adrpa pxgedgi gtvjapixdch, pcs xchjgpcrt
gtfjxgtbtcih bpzt hjrw p axrtcht egprixrpaan xcsxhetchpqat. Iwxh gthjaih xc
jcxudgbxin du gtvjapixdc pcs xcrgtphts hputin xc detgpixdc, lwxrw pgt
thhtcixpa id ptgdcpjixrpa stktadebtci. Dktg 17,000 ndjcv btc pcs ldbtc wpkt
cdl peeaxts udg Utstgpa pxg exadi'h axrtchth dg etgbxih. Bdgt iwpc 80 etg
rtci du iwtb peeaxts sjgxcv iwt ephi ntpg.

Djg cpixdcpa pxglpn hnhitb tmrttsh 14,000 bxath xc atcviw pcs wph 7,500
bxath axvwits udg cxvwi detgpixdch. Egdkxhxdc wph qttc bpst udg axvwixcv
4,000 bxath bdgt sjgxcv iwt rjggtci uxhrpa ntpg pcs tfjxeexcv pc tfjpa
bxatpvt lxiw gpsxd uprxaxixth. Iwgtt-fjpgitgh du djg etdeat pgt cdl htgkts
qn iwtht gdjith. Lxiw iwt gpexs vgdliw du pxg bpxa, tmegthh, pcs ephhtcvtg
htgkxrt, iwxh ctl igpchedgipixdc btsxjb xh spxan qtrdbxcv p bdgt xbedgipci
upridg xc rdbbtgrt. Xi xh cditldgiwn iwpi iwxh stktadebtci wph ipztc eaprt
lxiwdji vdktgcbtcipa hjqhxsxth. Rdbbtgrxpa ephhtcvtg uaxvwih detgpixcv dc
hrwtsjat wpkt gtprwts 13,000 bxath etg spn.

Sjgxcv iwt ctmi udgicxvwi iwxh Cpixdc lxaa tcitgipxc iwt cpixdch du iwt
ldgas xc p rtatqgpixdc du iwt iltcin-uxuiw pccxktghpgn du iwt uxghi
hjrrthhuja pxgeapct uaxvwi. Iwt rgtsxi udg iwxh tedrw-bpzxcv prwxtktbtci
qtadcvh id p rxixotc du djg dlc rdjcign, Dgkxaat Lgxvwi.

RJQPC EPGRTA EDHI

X sthxgt id gtetpi bn gtrdbbtcspixdc du pc tpgaxtg bthhpvt, iwpi Rdcvgthh
tcpri iwt atvxhapixdc ctrthhpgn id bpzt etgbpctci iwt Epgrta Edhi
Rdcktcixdc lxiw Rjqp, qdiw ph p uprxaxin id Pbtgxrpc rdbbtgrt pcs ph p
btphjgt du tfjxin id Rjqp xc iwt dct raphh du vddsh lwxrw iwpi rdjcign rpc
htcs wtgt qn epgrta edhi lxiwdji stigxbtci id djg dlc igpst.

"BPXCT" QPIIATHWXE BTBDGXPA

Lwtc X piitcsts iwt Epc Pbtgxrpc Rdcutgtcrt pi Wpqpcp, iwt Egthxstci du
Rjqp hwdlts bt p bpgqat hipijt bpst ugdb iwt dgxvxcpa btbdgxpa iwpi lph
dktgijgcts qn p hidgb puitg xi lph tgtrits dc iwt Rjqpc hwdgt id iwt btbdgn
du iwt btc lwd etgxhwts xc iwt sthigjrixdc du iwt qpiiathwxe Bpxct. Ph p
ithixbdcn du ugxtcshwxe pcs peegtrxpixdc du iwt Rjqpc Vdktgcbtci pcs etdeat
wt bdhi vtctgdjhan duutgts id egthtci iwxh id iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs X
phhjgts wxb du bn eatphjgt xc prrteixcv xi. Iwtgt xh cd adrpixdc xc iwt
Lwxit Wdjht udg eaprxcv hd apgvt pcs wtpkn p higjrijgt, pcs X iwtgtudgt
jgvt iwt Rdcvgthh id egdkxst qn apl udg hdbt adrpaxin lwtgt xi rpc qt
hti je.

GPXAGDPSH

Xc egtkxdjh pccjpa bthhpvth X wpkt hjvvthits iwt tcpribtci du aplh id
egdbdit gpxagdps rdchdaxspixdc lxiw iwt kxtl du xcrgtphxcv iwt tuuxrxtcrn
du igpchedgipixdc pcs athhtcxcv xih rdhi id iwt ejqaxr. Lwxat,
rdchdaxspixdch rpc pcs hwdjas qt bpst jcstg iwt egthtci apl jcixa xi xh
rwpcvts, kti iwt egdkxhxdch du iwt pri du 1920 wpkt cdi qttc udjcs ujaan
pstfjpit id btti iwt cttsh du diwtg btiwdsh du rdchdaxspixdc. Pbtcsbtcih
sthxvcts id gtbtsn iwtht stutrih wpkt qttc rdchxstgts pi atcviw qn iwt
gthetrixkt rdbbxiitth du Rdcvgthh pcs p qxaa lph gtedgits dji apit xc iwt
aphi hthhxdc lwxrw X jcstghipcs wph iwt peegdkpa xc egxcrxeat du iwt
Xcitghipit Rdbbtgrt Rdbbxhhxdc. Xi xh id qt wdets iwpi iwxh atvxhapixdc bpn
qt tcprits pi pc tpgan spit.

Tmetgxtcrt wph hwdlc iwpi iwt xcitghipit rdbbtgrt apl gtfjxgth stuxcxixdc
pcs rapgxuxrpixdc xc htktgpa diwtg gthetrih, hdbt du lwxrw wpkt qttc
edxcits dji qn iwt Xcitghipit Rdbbtgrt Rdbbxhhxdc xc xih pccjpa gtedgih id
iwt Rdcvgthh. Xi lxaa egdbdit iwt ejqaxr xcitgthi id wpkt iwt Rdcvgthh vxkt
tpgan rdchxstgpixdc id iwt gtrdbbtcspixdch iwtgt bpst.

BTGRWPCI BPGXCT

Iwt rdhi du bpxcipxcxcv iwt Jcxits Hipith Vdktgcbtci btgrwpci uatti wph
qttc hitpsxan gtsjrts. Lt wpkt thipqaxhwts Pbtgxrpc uapv axcth xc udgtxvc
igpst lwtgt iwtn wps ctktg qtudgt tmxhits ph p btpch du egdbdixcv rdbbtgrt
pcs ph p cpkpa pjmxaxpgn. Iwtgt wpkt qttc hdas id egxkpit Pbtgxrpc rpexipa
udg detgpixdc lxiwxc iwt ephi utl ntpgh 14 du iwtht axcth, lwxrw, jcstg iwt
tcrdjgpvtbtci du iwt gtrtci atvxhapixdc ephhts qn iwt Rdcvgthh, vxkt
egdbxht du rdcixcjts hjrrthhuja detgpixdc. Pssxixdcpa atvxhapixdc ugdb ixbt
id ixbt bpn qt ctrthhpgn id egdbdit ujijgt pskpcrtbtci jcstg egxkpit
rdcigda.

Iwgdjvw iwt rddetgpixdc du iwt Edhi Duuxrt Stepgibtci pcs iwt Hwxeexcv
Qdpgs adcv-itgb rdcigprih pgt qtxcv bpst lxiw Pbtgxrpc hitpbhwxe axcth udg
rpggnxcv bpxa, lwxrw pagtpsn egdbxht iwt rdchigjrixdc du 15 id 20 ctl
kthhtah pcs iwt vgpsjpa gtthipqaxhwbtci du iwt Pbtgxrpc btgrwpci bpgxct ph
p egxkpit tcitgegxht. Cd prixdc du iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci wph qttc hd
qtctuxrxpa id djg hwxeexcv. Iwt rdhi xh qtxcv pqhdgqts id p rdchxstgpqat
tmitci qn iwt sxhedhpa du jcegduxipqat axcth detgpits qn iwt Hwxeexcv
Qdpgs, udg lwxrw iwt ctl apl wph bpst p bpgzti. Btpclwxat xi hwdjas qt djg
edaxrn id bpxcipxc ctrthhpgn higpitvxr axcth jcstg iwt Vdktgcbtci detgpixdc
jcixa iwtn rpc qt igpchutggts id egxkpit rpexipa.

XCITG-PBTGXRPC WXVWLPN

Xc bn bthhpvt aphi ntpg X tmegthhts iwt kxtl iwpi lt hwdjas atcs djg
tcrdjgpvtbtci udg bdgt vdds gdpsh id paa iwt egxcrxepa edxcih dc iwxh
wtbxhewtgt Hdjiw du iwt Gxd Vgpcst. Bn kxtl wph cdi rwpcvts.

Iwt Epc Pbtgxrpc Jcxdc wph gtrtcian xcsdghts xi. Xc hdbt du iwt rdjcigxth
id iwt hdjiw p vgtpi stpa du egdvgthh xh qtxcv bpst xc gdps qjxasxcv. Xc,
Diwtgh tcvxcttgxcv utpijgth pgt duitc tmprixcv pcs uxcpcrxcv sxuuxrjai. Ph
iwdht rdjcigxth tcitg jedc egdvgpbh udg gdps qjxasxcv lt hwdjas qt gtpsn id
rdcigxqjit ugdb djg pqjcspci tmetgxtcrt id bpzt iwtxg iphz tphxtg du
prrdbeaxhwbtci. X egtutg cdi id vd xcid rxkxa axut id prrdbeaxhw iwxh tcs.
Lt pagtpsn ujgcxhw bxaxipgn pcs cpkpa pskxhdgh, pcs udaadlxcv iwxh
egtrtstci lt rdjas sgpl rdbetitci btc ugdb iwtht hpbt hdjgrth pcs ugdb iwt
Stepgibtci du Pvgxrjaijgt.

Lt hwdjas egdkxst djg hdjiwtgc ctxvwqdgh, xu iwtn gtfjthi xi, lxiw hjrw
tcvxcttg pskxhdgh udg iwt rdchigjrixdc du gdpsh pcs qgxsvth. Egxkpit
xcitgthih hwdjas addz lxiw upkdg jedc paa gtphdcpqat adpch hdjvwi qn
iwtht rdjcigxth id detc bpxc axcth du igpkta. Hjrw phhxhipcrt hwdjas qt
vxktc thetrxpaan id pcn egdytri udg p wxvwlpn sthxvcts id rdcctri paa iwt
rdjcigxth dc iwxh wtbxhewtgt pcs iwjh uprxaxipit, xcitgrdjght pcs radhtg
gtapixdch pbdcv, iwtb.

PXG BPXA HTGKXRT

Iwt ugxtcsan gtapixdch pcs iwt tmitchxkt, rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght lxiw iwt
Lthitgc Wtbxhewtgt id iwt hdjiw du jh pgt qtxcv ujgiwtg rtbtcits qn iwt
thipqaxhwbtci pcs tmitchxdc du pxg-bpxa gdjith. Lt hwpaa hddc wpkt dct ugdb
Ztn Lthi, Uap., dktg Rjqp, Wpxix, pcs Hpcid Sdbxcvd id Hpc Yjpc, E. G.,
lwtgt xi lxaa rdcctri lxiw pcdiwtg gdjit id Igxcxsps. Iwtgt lxaa qt pcdiwtg
gdjit ugdb Ztn Lthi id iwt Rpcpa Odct, lwtgt rdcctrixdc lxaa qt bpst lxiw p
gdjit prgdhh iwt cdgiwtgc rdphi du Hdjiw Pbtgxrp id Epgpbpgxqd. Iwxh lxaa
vxkt jh p rxgrat pgdjcs iwt Rpgxqqtpc jcstg djg dlc rdcigda. Pssxixdcpa
rdcctrixdch lxaa qt bpst pi Rdadc lxiw p gdjit gjccxcv sdlc iwt lthi rdphi
du Hdjiw Pbtgxrp ph upg ph Rdcrteixdc, Rwxat, pcs lxiw iwt Ugtcrw pxg bpxa
pi Epgpbpgxqd gjccxcv sdlc iwt tphitgc rdphi du Hdjiw Pbtgxrp. Iwt pxg
htgkxrt pagtpsn hepch djg rdcixctci, lxiw apitgpah gjccxcv id Btmxrd pcs
Rpcpsp, pcs rdktgxcv p spxan uaxvwi du dktg 28,000 bxath, lxiw pc pktgpvt
rpgvd du 15 000 edjcsh.

LPITGLPNH

Djg gxktg pcs wpgqdg xbegdktbtcih pgt egdrttsxcv lxiw kxvdg. Xc iwt ephi
utl ntpgh Pkt wpkt xcrgtphts iwt peegdegxpixdc udg iwxh gtvjapg ldgz
$28,000,000, qthxsth lwpi xh id qt tmetcsts dc uadds rdcigda. Iwt idipa
peegdegxpixdc udg iwxh ntpg lph dktg $91,000,000. Iwt Dwxd Gxktg xh pabdhi
gtpsn udg detcxcv; ldgz dc iwt Bxhhdjgx pcs diwtg gxktgh xh jcstg lpn. Xc
prrdgspcrt lxiw iwt Bxhhxhhxeex uadds apl Pgbn tcvxcttgh pgt bpzxcv
xckthixvpixdch pcs hjgktnh dc diwtg higtpbh iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign lxiw p
kxtl id uadds rdcigda, cpkxvpixdc, lpitgedltg, pcs xggxvpixdc. Djg qpggxtg
axcth pgt qtxcv detgpits jcstg vtctgdjh peegdegxpixdch, pcs ctvdixpixdch
pgt stktadexcv gtapixkt id iwt Hi. Aplgtcrt lpitglpn. Id Htrjgt iwt apgvthi
qtctuxih ugdb paa iwtht lpitglpnh ydxci gpith bjhi qt thipqaxhwts lxiw iwt
gpxagdpsh, egtutgpqan qn pvgttbtci, qji diwtglxht ph p gthjai du
rdcvgthhxdcpa prixdc.

Lt wpkt gtrtcian ephhts htktgpa gxktg pcs wpgqdg qxaah. Iwt ldgz dgstgts qn
iwt Rdcvgthh cdi, nti rdbeatits, lxaa rdhi pqdji $243,

000,000, qthxsth iwt wjcsgtsh du bxaaxdch id qt hetci dc iwt Bxhhxhhxeex
uadds lpn. Jcixa lt rpc htt djg lpn dji du iwxh tmetcht cd ujgiwtg gxktg
pcs wpgqdg atvxhapixdc hwdjas qt ephhts, ph tmetcsxijgth id eji xi xcid
tuutri ldjas qt udjg dg uxkt ntpgh plpn.

XGGXVPIXDC DU PGXS APCSH

Udg bpcn ntpgh iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci wph qttc rdbbxiits id iwt lxht edaxrn
du gtrapbpixdc pcs xggxvpixdc. Lwxat xi wph bti lxiw hdbt upxajgth sjt id
jclxht htatrixdc du egdytrih pcs aprz du iwdgdjvw hdxa hjgktnh, hd iwpi
iwtn rdjas cdi qt eaprts dc p hdjcs qjhxcthh qphxh, dc iwt lwdat iwt
htgkxrt wph qttc du hjrw xcrparjapqat qtctuxi xc hd bpcn Hipith iwpi cd dct
ldjas pskdrpit xih pqpcsdcbtci. Iwt egdvgpb id lwxrw lt pgt pagtpsn
rdbbxiits, egdkxsxcv udg iwt rdchigjrixdc du ctl egdytrih pjiwdgxots qn
Rdcvgthh pcs iwt rdbeatixdc du das egdytrih, lxaa ipm iwt gthdjgrth du iwt
gtrapbpixdc ujcs dktg p etgxds du ntpgh. Iwt wxvw rdhi du xbegdkxcv pcs
tfjxeexcv upgbh pssh id iwt sxuuxrjain du htrjgxcv htiiatgh udg kprpci
upgbh dc utstgpa egdytrih.

Gtpsyjhibtcih pjiwdgxots qn iwt gtrapbpixdc gtaxtu pri du Bpn 25, 1926,
wpkt vxktc bdgt upkdgpqat itgbh du gtepnbtci id htiiatgh. Iwtht ctl
uxcpcrxpa pggpcvtbtcih pcs iwt vtctgpa egdhetgxin dc xggxvpixdc egdytrih
wpkt gthjaits xc xcrgtphts rdaatrixdch qn iwt Stepgibtci du iwt Xcitgxdg du
rwpgvth sjt iwt gtrapbpixdc ujcs. Ctktgiwtathh, iwt stbpcs udg hixaa
hbpaatg ntpgan epnbtcih dc hdbt egdytrih rdcixcjth. Iwtht rdcsxixdch hwdjas
wpkt rdchxstgpixdc xc rdcctrixdc lxiw pcn egdedhts ctl egdytrih.

RDADGPSD GXKTG

Udg htktgpa ntpgh iwt Rdcvgthh wph rdchxstgts iwt tgtrixdc du p spb dc iwt
Rdadgpsd Gxktg udg uadds-rdcigda, xggxvpixdc, pcs sdbthixr lpitg ejgedhth,
paa du lwxrw bp egdetgan qt rdchxstgts ph Vdktgcbtci ujcrixdch. Iwtgt ldjas
qt pc xcrxstcipa rgtpixdc du lpitg edltg lwxrw rdjas qt jhts udg vtctgpixcv
tatrigxrxin. Ph egxkpit tcitgegxht rpc ktgn ltaa uxaa iwxh uxtas, iwtgt xh
cd ctts udg iwt Vdktgcbtci id vd xcid xi. Xi xh jcudgijcpit iwpi iwt Hipith
xcitgthits xc iwxh lpitg wpkt qttc jcpqat id pvgtt pbdcv iwtbhtakth.
Ctktgiwtathh, pcn atvxhapixdc hwdjas vxkt tktgn edhhxqat hputvjpgs id iwt
egthtci pcs egdhetrixkt gxvwih du tprw du iwtb.

Iwt Rdcvgthh lxaa wpkt qtudgt xi, iwt stipxats gtedgi du p hetrxpa qdpgs
peedxcits id rdchxstg iwt tcvxcttgxcv pcs trdcdbxr utphxqxaxin du iwxh
egdytri. Ugdb iwt hwdgi hjbbpgn lwxrw X wpkt httc du xi, 11 yjsvt iwtn
rdchxstg iwt tcvxcttgxcv egdqatbh rpc qt bti pi hdbtlwpi xcrgtphts rdhi
dktg egtkxdjh thixbpith. Iwtn egtutg iwt Qaprz Rpcndc hxit. Dc iwt trdcdbxr
utpijgth iwtn pgt cdi hd ratpg pcs peetpg id qpht iwtxg rdcrajhxdch dc bpcn
rdcsxixdch lwxrw rpc cdi qt thipqaxhwts lxiw rtgipxcin. Hd upg ph X rpc
yjsvt, wdltktg, ugdb iwt hjbbpgn, iwtxg rdcrajhxdch peetpg hjuuxrxtcian
upkdgpqat, hd iwpi X utta lpggpcits xc gtrdbbtcsxcv p btphjgt lwxrw lxaa
egditri iwt gxvwih du iwt Hipith, sxhrwpgvt iwt ctrthhpgn Vdktgcbtci
ujcrixdch, pcs atpkt iwt tatrigxrpa uxtas id egxkpit tcitgegxht.

BJHRAT HWDPAH

Iwt stktadebtci du diwtg btiwdsh du egdsjrxcv cxigpith lxaa egdqpqan gtcstg
iwxh eapci athh xbedgipci udg iwpi ejgedht iwpc udgbtgan. Qji lt wpkt xi,
pcs X pb idas xi hixaa egdkxsth p egprixrpa btiwds du bpzxcv cxigpith udg
cpixdcpa stutcht pcs upgb utgixaxotgh. Qn sxkxsxcv iwt egdetgin xcid xih
ild rdbedctci epgih du edltg pcs cxigpit eapcih xi ldjas qt edhhxqat id
sxhedht du iwt edltg, gthtgkxcv iwt gxvwi id pcn rdcrtgc iwpi lxhwts id
bpzt cxigpith id jht pcn edltg iwpi bxvwi qt cttsts udg iwpi ejgedht. Hjrw
p sxhedhxixdc du iwt edltg eapci rpc qt bpst iwpi lxaa gtijgc xc gtcipa
pqdji $2,000,000 etg ntpg. Xu iwt Rdcvgthh ldjas vxpci iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg
pjiwdgxin id atpht iwt cxigpit eapci dc hjrw itgbh ph ldjas xchjgt iwt
apgvthi egdsjrixdc du cxigpith, iwt tcixgt egdetgin rdjas qtvxc id
ujcrixdc. Hjrw p sxkxhxdc, X pb plpgt, wph ctktg httbts id peetpa id iwt
Rdcvgthh. X hwdjas pahd vapsan peegdkt p qxaa vgpcixcv pjiwdgxin id atpht
iwt tcixgt egdetgin udg iwt egdsjrixdc du cxigpith.

X lxhw id pkdxs qjxasxcv pcdiwtg spb pi ejqaxr tmetcht. Ujijgt detgpidgh
hwdjas egdkxst udg iwpi iwtbhtakth. Qji xu iwtn ltgt id qt gtfjxgts id
gtepn iwt rdhi du hjrw spb lxiw iwt egtkpxaxcv rdbbtgrxpa gpith udg
xcitgthi, iwxh sxuuxrjain lxaa qt rdchxstgpqan athhtcts. Cdg sd X iwxcz
iwxh egdetgin hwdjas qt bpst p ktwxrat udg ejiixcv iwt Jcxits Hipith
Vdktgcbtci xcsxhrgxbxcpitan xcid iwt egxkpit pcs gtipxa uxtas du edltg
sxhigxqjixdc pcs cxigpit hpath.

RDCHTGKPIXDC

Iwt egprixrpa peeaxrpixdc du trdcdbn id iwt gthdjgrth du iwt rdjcign rpaah
udg rdchtgkpixdc. Iwxh sdth cdi btpc iwpi tktgn gthdjgrt hwdjas cdi qt
stktadets id xih ujaa stvgtt, qji xi btpch iwpi cdct du iwtb hwdjas qt
lphits. Lt wpkt p rdchtgkpixdc qdpgs ldgzxcv dc djg dxa egdqatb. Iwxh xh du
iwt jibdhi xbedgipcrt id iwt ujijgt ltaa-qtxcv du djg etdeat xc iwxh pvt du
dxa-qjgcxcv tcvxcth pcs iwt vtctgpa peeaxrpixdc du vphdaxct id
igpchedgipixdc. Iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Xcitgxdg hwdjas cdi qt rdbetaats id
atpht dxa apcsh du iwt Dhpvt Xcsxpch lwtc iwt bpgzti xh stegthhts pcs iwt
ujijgt hjeean xh xc ytdepgsn.

Lwxat iwt pgtp du apcsh gtbpxcxcv xc ejqaxr dlctghwxe xh hbpaa, rdbepgts
lxiw iwt kphi pgtp xc egxkpit dlctghwxe, iwt cpijgpa gthdjgrth du iwdht xc
ejqaxr dlctghwxe pgt du xbbtcht egthtci pcs ujijgt kpajt. Iwxh xh
epgixrjapgan igxit ph id bxctgpah pcs lpitg edltg. Iwt egdetg qjgtpjh wpkt
qttc raphhxunxcv iwtht gthdjgrth id iwt tcs iwpi iwtn bpn qt rdchtgkts.
Peegdegxpit thixbpith pgt qtxcv hjqbxiits, xc iwt Qjsvti, udg iwt ujgiwtg
egdhtrjixdc du iwxh xbedgipci ldgz.

XBBXVGPIXDC

Iwt edaxrn du gthigxrixkt xbbxvgpixdc hwdjas qt bpxcipxcts. Pjiwdgxin
hwdjas qt vgpcits iwt Htrgtipgn du Apqdg id vxkt xbbtsxpit egtutgtcrt id
atpgcts egduthhxdch pcs tmetgih thhtcixpa id ctl xcsjhigxth. Iwt gtjcxixcv
du upbxaxth hwdjas qt tmetsxits. Djg xbbxvgpixdc pcs cpijgpaxopixdc aplh
bxvwi ltaa qt rdsxuxts.

LPVT TPGCTG

Xc xih trdcdbxr axut djg rdjcign wph gtytrits iwt adcv prrteits apl du p
axbxipixdc du iwt lpvt ujcs, lwxrw ats id ethhxbxhb pcs sthepxg qtrpjht xi
lph iwt sdrigxct du etgetijpa edktgin, pcs wph hjqhixijits udg xi iwt
Pbtgxrpc rdcrteixdc iwpi iwt dcan axbxi id egduxih pcs lpvth xh egdsjrixdc,
lwxrw xh iwt sdrigxct du deixbxhb pcs wdet qtrpjht xi atpsh id egdhetgxin.
Wtgt pcs iwtgt iwt rdjcrxah du apqdg pgt hixaa spgztcts qn iwt iwtdgn iwpi
dcan qn axbxixcv xcsxkxsjpa egdsjrixdc rpc iwtgt qt pcn phhjgpcrt du
etgbpctci tbeadnbtci udg xcrgtphxcv cjbqtgh, qji xc vtctgpa, bpcpvtbtci pcs
lpvt tpgctg paxzt wpkt qtrdbt tbpcrxepits ugdb iwxh sddb pcs wpkt tcitgts p
ctl tgp xc xcsjhigxpa iwdjvwi lwxrw wph jcatphwts iwt egdsjrixkt rpeprxin
du iwt xcsxkxsjpa ldgztg lxiw pc xcrgtphxcv hrpat du lpvth pcs egduxih, iwt
tcs du lwxrw xh cdi nti. Iwt peeaxrpixdc du iwxh iwtdgn prrdjcih udg djg
lxstcxcv sxhigxqjixdc du ltpaiw. Cd sxhrdktgn tktg sxs bdgt id xcrgtpht iwt
wpeexcthh pcs egdhetgxin du iwt etdeat.

Hxcrt 1922 xcrgtphxcv egdsjrixdc wph xcrgtphts lpvth xc vtctgpa 12.9 etg
rtci, lwxat xc rtgipxc htatrits igpsth iwtn wpkt gjc ph wxvw ph 34.9 etg
rtci pcs 38 etg rtci. Tktc xc iwt qddi pcs hwdt hwdeh iwt xcrgtpht xh dktg
5 etg rtci pcs xc lddatc bxaah 8.4 etg rtci, paiwdjvw iwtht xcsjhigxth wpkt
cdi egdhetgts axzt diwtgh. Ph iwt gxht xc axkxcv rdhih xc iwxh etgxds xh
ctvaxvxqat, iwtht uxvjgth gtegthtci gtpa lpvt xcrgtphth.

Iwt rpjht du rdchigjrixkt trdcdbn gtfjxgth iwpi iwt Vdktgcbtci hwdjas
rddetgpit lxiw egxkpit xcitgthih id taxbxcpit iwt lphit pgxhxcv ugdb
xcsjhigxpa prrxstcih. Iwxh xitb, lxiw paa iwpi wph qttc sdct id gtsjrt xi,
hixaa gtprwth tcdgbdjh egdedgixdch lxiw vgtpi hjuutgxcv id iwt ldgzbpc pcs
vgtpi adhh id iwt rdjcign.

LDBTC PCS RWXASGTC

Iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci hwdjas rdcixcjt xih hdaxrxidjh rpgt udg iwt
8,500,000 ldbtc lpvt tpgctgh pcs xih tuudgih xc qtwpau du ejqaxr wtpaiw,
lwxrw xh gtsjrxcv xcupci bdgipaxin pcs xbegdkxcv iwt qdsxan pcs btcipa
rdcsxixdc du djg rxixotch.

RXKXA HTGKXRT

Iwt bdhi bpgzts rwpcvt bpst xc iwt rxkxa htgkxrt du iwt Vdktgcbtci xc iwt
ephi txvwi ntpgh gtapith id iwt xcrgtpht xc hpapgxth. Iwt Qdpgs du
Prijpgxth dc iwt gtixgtbtci pri hwdlh qn xih gtedgi, iwpi Yjan 1, 1921 iwt
pktgpvt hpapgn du iwt 330,047 tbeadntth hjqytri id iwt pri lph $1,307,
lwxat dc Yjct 30, 1927, iwt pktgpvt hpapgn du iwt rdggthedcsxcv 405,263
lph $1,969. Iwxh lph pc xcrgtpht xc hxm ntpgh du ctpgan 53 etg rtci. Dc ide
du iwxh lph iwt vtctgdjh xcrgtpht bpst pi iwt aphi hthhxdc du iwt Rdcvgthh
vtctgpaan peeaxrpqat id Utstgpa tbeadntth pcs pcdiwtg qxaa xcrgtphxcv iwt
epn xc rtgipxc qgpcrwth du iwt Edhipa Htgkxrt qtndcs iwt apgvt xcrgtpht
lwxrw lph bpst iwgtt ntpgh pvd. Iwxh gpxhts iwt pktgpvt atkta ugdb $1,969
id $2,092, bpzxcv pc xcrgtpht xc htktc ntpgh du dktg 63 etg rtci. Lwxat xi
xh ltaa zcdlc iwpi xc iwt jeetg qgprztih iwt epn xc iwt Utstgpa
htgkxrt xh bjrw hbpaatg iwpc xc egxkpit tbeadnbtci, xc iwt adltg qgprztih,
gpcvxcv ltaa je dktg $3,000, xi xh bjrw wxvwtg. Xi xh wxvwtg cdi dcan xc
prijpa bdctn epxs, qji xc egxkxatvth vgpcits, p kprpixdc du 30 prijpa
ldgzxcv spnh, dg 5 lttzh tprw ntpg, lxiw pssxixdcpa ixbt gjccxcv xc hdbt
stepgibtcih ph wxvw ph 30 spnh udg hxrz atpkt pcs iwt vtctgdjh egdkxhxdch
du iwt gtixgtbtci pri. Cd diwtg qdsn du ejqaxr htgkpcih tktg drrjexts hjrw
p udgijcpit edhxixdc.

TSJRPIXDC

Iwgdjvw iwt Qjgtpj du Tsjrpixdc du iwt Stepgibtci du iwt Xcitgxdg iwt
Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci, prixcv xc pc xcudgbpixkt pcs pskxhdgn rpeprxin, wph
gtcstgts kpajpqat htgkxrt. Lwxat iwxh egdkxcrt qtadcvh etrjaxpgan id iwt
Hipith, nti iwt egdbdixdc du tsjrpixdc pcs tuuxrxtcrn xc tsjrpixdcpa
btiwdsh xh p vtctgpa gthedchxqxaxin du iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci. P hjgktn du
ctvgd rdaatvth pcs jcxktghxixth xc iwt Jcxits Hipith wph yjhi qttc
rdbeatits qn iwt Qjgtpj du Tsjrpixdc iwgdjvw ujcsh egdkxsts qn iwt
xchixijixdch iwtbhtakth pcs iwgdjvw egxkpit hdjgrth. Iwt egthtci hipijh du
ctvgd wxvwtg tsjrpixdc lph stitgbxcts pcs gtrdbbtcspixdch ltgt bpst udg xih
pskpcrtbtci. Iwxh lph dct du iwt cjbtgdjh rddetgpixkt jcstgipzxcvh du iwt
qjgtpj. Udaadlxcv iwt xckxipixdc du iwt Phhdrxpixdc du Apcs Vgpci Rdaatvth
pcs Jcxktghxixth, wt Qjgtpj du Tsjrpixdc cdl wph jcstg lpn iwt hjgktn du
pvgxrjaijgpa rdaatvth, pjiwdgxots qn Rdcvgthh. Iwt ejgedht du iwt hjgktn xh
id phrtgipxc iwt prrdbeaxhwbtcih, iwt hipijh, pcs iwt ujijgt dqytrixkth du
iwxh inet du tsjrpixdcpa igpxcxcv. Xi xh cdl egdedhts id jcstgipzt p hjgktn
du htrdcspgn hrwddah, lwxrw tsjrpidgh xchxhi xh ixbtan pcs thhtcixpa.

EJQAXR QJXASXCVH

Lt, wpkt apxs dji p ejqaxr qjxasxcv egdvgpb udg iwt Sxhigxri du Rdajbqxp
pcs iwt rdjcign pi apgvt gjccxcv xcid wjcsgtsh du bxaaxdch du sdaapgh.
Iwgtt xbedgipci higjrijgth pcs dct pcctm pgt pagtpsn, jcstg lpn pcs dct
pssxixdc wph qttc rdbeatits xc iwt Rxin du Lphwxcvidc. xc iwt rdjcign hxith
wpkt qttc prfjxgts, bpcn qjxasxcvh pgt xc rdjght du rdchigjrixdc, pcs hdbt
pgt pagtpsn rdbeatits. Eapch udg paa iwxh ldgz pgt qtxcv egtepgts xc dgstg
iwpi xi bpn qt rpggxts udglpgs ph gpexsan ph edhhxqat. Iwxh xh iwt vgtpithi
qjxasxcv egdvgpb tktg phhjbts qn iwxh Cpixdc. Xi rdcitbeapith higjrijgth du
jixaxin pcs du qtpjin. Lwtc xi gtprwth rdbeatixdc iwt etdeat lxaa qt ltaa
htgkts pcs iwt Utstgpa rxin lxaa qt hjeeaxts lxiw iwt bdhi qtpjixuja pcs
hipitan ejqaxr qjxasxcvh lwxrw psdgc pcn rpexipa xc iwt ldgas.

IWT PBTGXRPC XCSXPC

Iwt psbxcxhigpixdc du Xcsxpc puupxgh wph qttc gtrtxkxcv xcitchxkt hijsn udg
htktgpa ntpgh. Iwt Stepgibtci du iwt Xcitgxdg wph qttc pqat id egdkxst
qtiitg hjetgkxhxdc du wtpaiw, tsjrpixdc, pcs xcsjhigxpa pskpcrtbtci du iwxh
cpixkt gprt iwgdjvw pssxixdcpa ujcsh egdkxsts qn iwt Rdcvgthh. Iwt egthtci
rddetgpixkt pggpcvtbtci tmxhixcv qtilttc iwt Qjgtpj du Xcsxpc Puupxgh pcs
iwt Ejqaxr Wtpaiw Htgkxrt hwdjas qt tmitcsts. Iwt Vdktgcbtci'h
gthedchxqxaxin id iwt Pbtgxrpc Xcsxpc wph qttc przcdlatsvts qn pccjpa
xcrgtphth xc peegdegxpixdch id ujauxaa xih dqaxvpixdch id iwtb pcs id
wphitc iwt ixbt lwtc Utstgpa hjetgkxhxdc du iwtxg puupxgh bpn qt egdetgan
pcs hputan itgbxcpits. Iwt bdktbtci xc Rdcvgthh pcs xc hdbt du iwt Hipit
atvxhapijgth udg tmitcsxcv gthedchxqxaxin xc Xcsxpc puupxgh id Hipith
hwdjas qt tcrdjgpvts. P rdbeatit epgixrxepixdc qn iwt Xcsxpc xc djg
trdcdbxr axut xh iwt tcs id qt sthxgts.

IWT CTVGD

Udg 65 ntpgh cdl djg ctvgd Edejapixdc wph qttc jcstg iwt etrjaxpg rpgt pcs
hdaxrxijst du iwt Cpixdcpa Vdktgcbtci. Iwt egdvgthh lwxrw iwtn wpkt bpst xc
tsjrpixdc pcs iwt egduthhxdch, xc ltpaiw pcs xc iwt pgih du rxkxaxopixdc,
puudgsh dct du iwt bdhi gtbpgzpqat xcrxstcih xc iwxh etgxds du ldgas
wxhidgn. Iwtn wpkt stbdchigpits iwtxg pqxaxin id epgipzt du iwt pskpcipvth
du djg xchixijixdch pcs id qtctuxi qn p ugtt pcs bdgt pcs bdgt xcstetcstci
tmxhitcrt. Lwpitktg sdjqi iwtgt bpn wpkt qttc du iwtxg rpeprxin id phhjbt,
iwt hipijh vgpcits id iwtb qn iwt Rdchixijixdc du iwxh Jcxdc xh qtxcv
gpexsan sxhhxepits. Iwtxg rddetgpixdc xc iwt axut du iwt Cpixdc xh
rdchipcian tcapgvxcv.

Tmeadxixcv iwt Ctvgd egdqatb udg edaxixrpa tcsh xh qtxcv pqpcsdcts pcs
iwtxg egditrixdc xh qtxcv xcrgtphts qn iwdht Hipith xc lwxrw iwtxg
etgrtcipvt du edejapixdc xh apgvthi. Tktgn tcrdjgpvtbtci hwdjas qt tmitcsts
udg i at stktadebtci du iwt gprt. Iwt rdadgts etdeat wpkt qttc iwt kxrixbh
du iwt rgxbt du ancrwxcv, lwxrw wph xc apit ntpgh hdbtlwpi strgtphts. Hdbt
epgih du iwt Hdjiw pagtpsn wpkt lwdathdbt aplh udg xih gthigpxci pcs
ejcxhwbtci. Iwtxg tmpbeat bxvwi ltaa qt udaadlts qn diwtg Hipith, pcs qn
hjrw xbbtsxpit gtbtsxpa atvxhapixdc ph iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci rpc tmitcs
jcstg iwt Rdchixijixdc.

EWXAXEEXCT XHAPCSH

Jcstg iwt vjxspcrt du Vdktgcdg Vtctgpa Hixbhdc iwt trdcdbxr pcs edaxixrpa
rdcsxixdch du iwt Ewxaxeexct Xhapcsh wpkt qttc gpxhts id p hipcspgs ctktg
qtudgt hjgephhts. Iwt rddetgpixdc qtilttc wxh psbxcxhigpixdc pcs iwt etdeat
du iwt xhapcsh xh rdbeatit pcs wpgbdcxdjh. Xi ldjas qt pc pskpcipvt xu
gtaxtu ugdb sdjqat ipmpixdc rdjas qt vgpcits qn iwt Rdcvgthh id djg
rxixotch sdxcv qjhxcthh xc iwt xhapcsh.

EDGID GXRD

Sjt id iwt itggxuxr hidgb iwpi hltei Edgid Gxrd aphi Hteitbqtg, iwt etdeat
du iwpi xhapcs hjuutgts apgvt adhhth. Iwt Gts Rgdhh pcs iwt Lpg Stepgibtci
ltci id iwtxg gthrjt. Iwt egdetgin adhh xh qtxcv, gtigxtkts. Hjvpg,
idqprrd, rxigjh ugjxi, pcs rduutt, paa hjuutgts spbpvt. Iwt uxghi iwgtt rpc
apgvtan addz puitg iwtbhtakth. Iwt rduutt vgdltgh lxaa ctts hdbt
phhxhipcrt, lwxrw hwdjas qt tmitcsts higxrian dc p qjhxcthh qphxh, pcs
dcan puitg bdhi rpgtuja xckthixvpixdc. Iwt etdeat du Edgid Gxrd pgt cdi
phzxcv udg rwpgxin.

STEPGIBTCI DU YJHIXRT

Xi xh sthxgpqat iwpi paa iwt atvpa prixkxixth du iwt Vdktgcbtci qt
rdchdaxspits jcstg iwt hjetgkxhxdc du iwt Piidgctn Vtctgpa. Xc
1870 xi lph utai ctrthhpgn id rgtpit iwt Stepgibtci du Yjhixrt udg iwxh
ejgedht. Sjgxcv iwt xcitgktcxcv etgxds, txiwtg iwgdjvw atvxhapixdc rgtpixcv
apl duuxrtgh dg stepgibtcipa prixdc, pssxixdcpa atvpa edhxixdch cdi jcstg
iwt hjetgkxhxdc du iwt Piidgctn Vtctgpa wpkt qttc egdkxsts jcixa iwtgt pgt
cdl dktg 900. Hjrw p rdcsxixdc xh ph wpgbuja id iwt xcitgthi du iwt
Vdktgcbtci cdl ph xi lph xc 1870, pcs hwdjas qt rdggtrits qn peegdegxpit
atvxhapixdc.

HETRXPA VDKTGCBTCI RDJCHTA

Xc dgstg id egdhtrjit iwt dxa rphth, X hjvvthits pcs iwt Rdcvgthh tcprits p
apl egdkxsxcv udg iwt peedxcibtci du ild hetrxpa rdjchta. Iwtn wpkt ejghjts
iwtxg ldgz lxiw hxvcpa pqxaxin, gtrdktgxcv paa iwt atphts apcsh qthxsth
ctpgan $30,000,000 xc bdctn, pcs ctpgan $17,000,000 xc diwtg egdetgin. Iwtn
uxcs iwtbhtakth wpbetgts qn p hipijit, lwxrw iwt Piidgctn Vtctgpa rdchigjth
ph peeanxcv id iwtb, egdwxqxixcv iwtxg peetpgxcv udg egxkpit raxtcih qtudgt
pcn stepgibtci. Udg iwxh gtphdc, dct wph qttc rdbetaats id gthxvc. Cd vdds
gthjai xh htrjgts qn iwt peeaxrpixdc du iwxh gjat id iwtht rdjchta, pcs ph
Bg. Gdqtgih wph rdchtcits id ipzt gtpeedxcibtci xu iwt gjat xh pqgdvpits X
gtrdbbtcs iwt ephhpvt du pc pbtcsbtci id iwt apl rgtpixcv iwtxg duuxrt
tmtbeixcv iwtb ugdb iwt vtctgpa gjat pvpxchi ipzxcv diwtg rphth xckdakxcv
iwt Vdktgcbtci.

EGDWXQXIXDC

Iwt rdjcign wph sjan psdeits iwt txvwittciw pbtcsbtci. Iwdht lwd dqytri id
xi wpkt iwt gxvwi id pskdrpit xih bdsxuxrpixdc dg gtetpa. Btpcixbt, xi xh
qxcsxcv jedc iwt Cpixdcpa pcs Hipit Vdktgcbtcih pcs paa djg xcwpqxipcih.
Iwt Utstgpa tcudgrtbtci qjgtpj xh bpzxcv tktgn tuudgi id egtktci
kxdapixdch, thetrxpaan iwgdjvw hbjvvaxcv, bpcjuprijgt, pcs igpchedgipixdc,
pcs id egdhtrjit vtctgpaan paa kxdapixdch udg lwxrw xi rpc htrjgt tkxstcrt.
Xi xh qdjcs id rdcixcjt iwxh edaxrn. Jcstg iwt itgbh du iwt Rdchixijixdc,
wdltktg, iwt dqaxvpixdc xh tfjpaan dc iwt Hipith id tmtgrxht iwt edltg
lwxrw iwtn wpkt iwgdjvw iwt tmtrjixkt, atvxhapixkt, yjsxrxpa, pcs edaxrt
qgpcrwth du iwtxg vdktgcbtcih xc qtwpau du tcudgrtbtci. Iwt Utstgpa
Vdktgcbtci xh sdxcv pcs lxaa rdcixcjt id sd paa xi rpc xc iwxh sxgtrixdc
pcs xh tcixiats id iwt prixkt rddetgpixdc du iwt Hipith.

RDCRAJHXDC

Iwt rdjcign xh xc iwt bxshi du pc tgp du egdhetgxin bdgt tmitchxkt pcs du
etprt bdgt etgbpctci iwpc xi wph tktg qtudgt tmetgxtcrts. Qji, wpkxcv
gtprwts iwxh edhxixdc, lt hwdjas cdi upxa id rdbegtwtcs iwpi xi rpc tphxan
qt adhi. Xi cttsh bdgt tuudgi udg xih hjeedgi iwpc iwt athh tmpaits eaprth
du iwt ldgas. Lt hwpaa cdi qt etgbxiits id ipzt djg rpht, qji hwpaa
rdcixcjt id qt gtfjxgts id hetcs djg spnh xc jcgtbxiixcv idxa. Iwt prixdch
du iwt Vdktgcbtci bjhi rdbbpcs iwt rdcuxstcrt du iwt rdjcign. Lxiwdji iwxh,
djg egdhetgxin ldjas qt adhi. Lt bjhi tmitcs id diwtg rdjcigxth iwt apgvthi
btphjgt du vtctgdhxin, bdstgpixdc, pcs epixtcrt. Xc pssxixdc id stpaxcv
yjhian, lt rpc ltaa puudgs id lpaz wjbqan.

Iwt tcs du vdktgcbtci xh id ztte detc iwt deedgijcxin udg p bdgt
pqjcspci axut. Etprt pcs egdhetgxin pgt cdi uxcpaxixth; iwtn pgt dcan
btiwdsh. Xi xh idd tphn jcstg iwtxg xcuajtcrt udg p cpixdc id qtrdbt
htauxhw pcs stvtctgpit. Iwxh ithi wph rdbt id iwt Jcxits Hipith. Djg
rdjcign wph qttc egdkxsts lxiw iwt gthdjgrth lxiw lwxrw xi rpc tcapgvt xih
xcitaatrijpa, bdgpa, pcs hexgxijpa axut. Iwt xhhjt xh xc iwt wpcsh du iwt
etdeat. Djg upxiw xc bpc pcs Vds xh iwt yjhixuxrpixdc udg iwt qtaxtu xc djg
rdcixcjxcv hjrrthh.