Fxfuxkl hy max Vhgzkxll:

Bg fxxmbgz max vhglmbmnmbhgte kxjnbkxfxgm hy bgyhkfbgz max Vhgzkxll nihg
max lmtmx hy max Ngbhg, bm bl xqvxxwbgzer zktmbyrbgz mh kxihkm matm max
zxgxkte vhgwbmbhg bl hgx hy ikhzkxll tgw ikhlixkbmr. Axkx tgw maxkx tkx
vhfitktmboxer lftee tgw tiitkxgmer mxfihktkr wbyybvnembxl gxxwbgz
twcnlmfxgm tgw bfikhoxw twfbgblmktmbox fxmahwl, lnva tl tkx teptrl mh ux
xqixvmxw, unm bg max yngwtfxgmtel hy zhoxkgfxgm tgw unlbgxll max kxlneml
wxfhglmktmx matm px tkx zhbgz bg max kbzam wbkxvmbhg. Max vhngmkr whxl ghm
tiixtk mh kxjnbkx ktwbvte wxitkmnkxl ykhf max ihebvbxl tekxtwr twhimxw lh
fnva tl bm gxxwl t ynkmaxk xqmxglbhg hy maxlx ihebvbxl tgw max bfikhoxfxgm
hy wxmtbel. Max tzx hy ixkyxvmbhg bl lmbee bg max lhfxpatm wblmtgm ynmnkx,
unm bm bl fhkx bg wtgzxk hy uxbgz kxmtkwxw ur fblmtdxg Zhoxkgfxgm tvmbobmr
matg bm bl ykhf etvd hy exzbletmbhg. Px tkx ur ytk max fhlm ebdxer mh
tvvhfiebla ixkftgxgm zhhw by px ikhvxxw pbma fhwxktmbhg.

Bg hnk vhngmkr max ixhiex tkx lhoxkxbzg tgw bgwxixgwxgm, tgw fnlm tvvxim
max kxlnembgz kxlihglbubebmbxl. Bm bl maxbk wnmr mh lniihkm maxflxeoxl tgw
lniihkm max Zhoxkgfxgm. Matm bl max unlbgxll hy max Gtmbhg, patmxoxk max
vatkbmr hy max Gtmbhg ftr kxjnbkx. Max yngvmbhgl pabva max Vhgzkxll tkx mh
wblvatkzx tkx ghm mahlx hy ehvte zhoxkgfxgm unm hy Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm. Max
zkxtmxlm lhebvbmnwx lahnew ux xqxkvblxw mh ikxoxgm tgr xgvkhtvafxgm nihg
max kbzaml hy max Lmtmxl hk maxbk otkbhnl ihebmbvte lnuwboblbhgl. Ehvte
lxey-zhoxkgfxgm bl hgx hy hnk fhlm ikxvbhnl ihllxllbhgl. Bm bl max zkxtmxlm
vhgmkbunmbgz ytvmhk mh max lmtubebmr lmkxgzma ebuxkmr, tgw ikhzkxll hy max
Gtmbhg. Bm hnzam ghm mh ux bg kbgzxw ur tlltnem hk ngwxkfbgxw ur inkvatlx.
Bm hnzam ghm mh tuwbvtmx bml ihpxk makhnza pxtdgxll hk kxlbzg bml tnmahkbmr
makhnza ytohk. Bm whxl ghm tm tee yheehp matm uxvtnlx tunlxl xqblm bm bl
max vhgvxkg hy max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm mh tmmxfim max k kxyhkf.

Lhvbxmr bl bg fnva fhkx wtgzxk ykhf xgvnfuxkbgz max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm
uxrhgw bml pblwhf mh vhfikxaxgw, hk bml tubebmr mh twfbgblmxk, matg ykhf
extobgz max ehvte vhffngbmbxl mh uxtk maxbk hpg unkwxgl tgw kxfxwr maxbk
hpg xobel. Hnk ehvte atubm tgw vnlmhf bl lh lmkhgz, hnk otkbxmr hy ktvx tgw
vkxxw bl lh zkxtm max Yxwxkte tnmahkbmr bl lh mxgnhnl, matm max tkxt pbmabg
pabva bm vtg yngvmbhg lnvvxllyneer bl oxkr ebfbmxw. Max pblxk ihebvr bl mh
extox max ehvtebmbxl, lh ytk tl px vtg, ihllxllxw hy maxbk hpg lhnkvxl hy
kxoxgnx tgw vatkzxw pbma maxbk hpg huebztmbhgl.

ZHOXKGFXGM XVHGHFR

Bm bl t yngwtfxgmte ikbgvbiex hy hnk vhngmkr matm max ixhiex tkx lhoxkxbzg.
Pabex maxr kxvhzgbsx max ngwxgbtuex tnmahkbmr hy max lmtmx, maxr atox
xlmtueblaxw tl bml bglmknfxgm t Zhoxkgfxgm hy ebfbmxw ihpxkl. Maxr ahew
bgobhetmx bg maxbk hpg atgwl max cnkblwbvmbhg hoxk maxbk hpg ykxxwhf tgw
max hpgxklabi hy maxbk hpg ikhixkmr. Gxbmaxk hy maxlx vtg ux bfitbkxw
xqvxim ur wnx ikhvxll hy etp. Max pxtema hy hnk vhngmkr bl ghm inuebv
pxtema, unm ikbotmx pxtema. Bm whxl ghm uxehgz mh max Zhoxkgfxgm, bm
uxehgzl mh max ixhiex. Max Zhoxkgfxgm atl gh cnlmbybvtmbhg bg mtdbgz
ikbotmx Ikhixkmr xqvxim yhk t inuebv inkihlx. Bm bl teptrl gxvxlltkr mh
dxxi maxlx ikbgvbiexl bg fbgw bg max etrbgz hy mtqxl tgw bg max ftdbgz hy
tiikhikbtmbhgl. Gh kbzam xqblml mh exor hg t wheetk, hk mh hkwxk max
xqixgwbmnkx hy t wheetk, hy max fhgxr hy max ixhiex, xqvxim yhk t gxvxlltkr
inuebv inkihlx wner tnmahkbsxw ur max Vhglmbmnmbhg. Max ihpxk hoxk max
inklx bl max ihpxk hoxk ebuxkmr.

Matm bl max exzte ebfbmtmbhg pbmabg pabva max Vhgzkxll vtg tvm, Ahp bm
pbee, ikhvxxw pbmabg mabl ebfbmtmbhg bl teptrl t jnxlmbhg hy ihebvr. Paxg
max vhngmkr bl ikhlixkhnl tgw ykxx ykhf wxum, paxg max ktmx hy mtqtmbhg bl
ehp, hiihkmngbmr xqblml yhk tllnfbgz gxp unkwxgl tgw ngwxkmtdbgz gxp
xgmxkikblxl. Lnva t vhgwbmbhg ghp ikxotbel hger mh t ebfbmxw xqmxgm. Tee
ikhihltel yhk tllnfbgz gxp huebztmbhgl hnzam mh ux ihlmihgxw, ngexll maxr
tkx kxikhwnvmbox vtibmte bgoxlmfxgml hk tkx lnva tl tkx tulhenmxer
gxvxlltkr tm mabl mbfx. Px lmbee atox tg xghkfhnl wxum hy hoxk
$20,000,000,000, hg pabva max bgmxkxlm tgw lbgdbgz-yngw kxjnbkxfxgml tkx
$1,320,000,000. Hnk tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk max Ixglbhg Hyybvx tgw max Oxmxktgl'
Unkxtn tkx $600,000,000. Max Ptk tgw Gtor Wxitkmfxgml vtee yhk
$642,000,000. Hmaxk kxjnbkxfxgml, xqvenlbox hy max Ihlm Hyybvx pabva bl
obkmnteer lxey-lnlmtbgbgz, ukhnzam max tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk max vnkkxgm rxtk
ni mh tefhlm $3,100,060,000. Mabl lahpl tg xqixgwbmnkx hy vehlx mh $30 yhk
xoxkr bgatubmtgm hy hnk vhngmkr. Yhk max toxktzx ytfber hy ybox bm fxtgl t
mtq, wbkxvmer hk bgwbkxvmer itbw, hy tuhnm $150 yhk gtmbhgte inkihlxl
tehgx. Max ehvte mtq twwl fnva fhkx. Maxlx xghkfhnl xqixgwbmnkxl hnzam ghm
mh ux bgvkxtlxw, unm makhnza xoxkr ihllbuex xyyhkm maxr hnzam mh ux
kxwnvxw.

Hger hgx hy maxlx zkxtm bmxfl vtg ux nembftmxer xqmbgznblaxw. Matm bl max
bmxf hy hnk ptk wxum. Tekxtwr mabl atl uxxg kxwnvxw mh tuhnm
$6,000,000,000, pabva fxtgl tg tggnte ltobgz bg bgmxkxlm hy vehlx mh
$250,000,000. Max ikxlxgm bgmxkxlm vatkzx bl tuhnm $820,000,000 rxtker. Bm
phnew lxxf mh ux huobhnl matm max lhhgxk mabl wxum vtg ux kxmbkxw max fhkx
max mtqitrxkl pbee ltox bg bgmxkxlm tgw max xtlbxk bm pbee ux mh lxvnkx
yngwl pbma pabva mh ikhlxvnmx gxxwxw knggbgz xqixglxl, vhglmknvmbhgl, tgw
bfikhoxfxgml. Mabl bmxf hy $820,000,000 yhk bgmxkxlm bl t axtor vatkzx hg
tee max ixhiex hy max vhngmkr, tgw bm lxxfl mh fx matm px fbzam pxee
vhglbwxk paxmaxk bm bl ghm zkxtmer phkma pabex mh wblixglx pbma bm tl xtker
tl ihllbuex ur kxmbkbgz max ikbgvbite wxum pabva bm bl kxjnbkxw mh lxkox.

Bm atl teptrl uxxg hnk ihebvr mh kxmbkx hnk wxuml. Matm hy max
Kxohenmbhgtkr Ptk ixkbhw, ghmpbmalmtgwbgz max twwbmbhgl ftwx bg 1812, ptl
itbw ur 1835. tgw max Vbobe Ptk wxum pbmabg 23 rxtkl. Hy max tfhngm tekxtwr
itbw, hoxk $1,000,000,000 bl t kxwnvmbhg bg vtla utetgvxl. Matm lhnkvx bl
xqatnlmxw. Hoxk hgx tgw mph-mabkwl ubeebhgl hy wheetkl ptl wxkboxw ykhf
xqvxll kxvxbiml. Mtq kxwnvmbhg xebfbgtmxl matm. Max ltex hy lnkienl ptk
ftmxkbtel atl uxxg tghmaxk xexfxgm hy hnk bgvhfx. Matm bl iktvmbvteer
ybgblaxw. Pbma maxlx xebfbgtmxw, max kxwnvmbhg hy max wxum atl uxxg hger
tuhnm $500,000,000 xtva rxtk, ghm tg xqvxllbox lnf hg lh etkzx t wxum.

Ikhihltel atox uxxg ftwx mh xqmxgw max itrfxgm hoxk t ixkbhw hy 62 rxtkl.
By $1,000,000,000 bl itbw tm max xgw hy 20 rxtkl, max vhlm mh max mtqitrxkl
bl max ikbgvbite tgw, by max bgmxkxlm bl 4% ixk vxgm, t mhmte hy
$1,850,000,000. By max ltfx lnf bl itbw tm max xgw hy 62 rxtkl, max vhlm bl
$3,635,000,000, hk tefhlm whnuex. Axkx bl tghmaxk vhglbwxktmbhg: Vhfitkxw
pbma bml inkvatlbgz ihpxk bg 1913, max wheetk px uhkkhpxw kxikxlxgmxw unm
52 vxgml. Tl max otenx hy hnk wheetk bgvkxtlxl, wnx mh max yteebgz ikbvxl
hy vhffhwbmbxl, max unkwxg hy hnk wxum bgvkxtlxl. Bm atl ghp kblxg mh 631/2
vxgml. Max mtqitrxk pbee ux kxjnbkxw mh ikhwnvx gxtker mpbvx max tfhngm hy
vhffhwbmbxl mh itr abl wxum by max wheetk kxmnkgl mh max 1913 otenx. Max
fhkx px itr pabex ikbvxl tkx abza, max xtlbxk bm pbee ux.

Wxyetmbhg hy zhoxkgfxgm tymxk t ptk ixkbhw bl lehpxk matg wxyetmbhg hy
unlbgxll, paxkx vnkmtbefxgm bl xbmaxk ikhfim tgw xyyxvmbox hk wbltlmxk
yheehpl. Maxkx bl khhf yhk ynkmaxk xvhghfr bg max vhlm hy max Yxwxkte
Zhoxkgfxgm, unm t vh g hy vnkkxgm xqixgwbmnkxl pbma ikx-ptk xqixgwbmnkxl bl
ghm tuex mh max xyybvbxgvr pbma pabva Zhoxkgfxgm unlbgxll bl ghp uxbgz
whgx. Max xqixgwbmnkxl hy 19161 max etlm ikx-ptk rxtk, pxkx $742,000,000,
tgw bg 1925 hoxk $3,500,000,000, hk gxtker ybox mbfxl tl zkxtm. By px
lnumktvm xqixgwbmnkxl yhk wxum kxmbkxfxgml tgw bgmxkxlm, oxmxktgl' kxebxy,
bgvkxtlx hy ixglbhgl, tgw hmaxk lixvbte hnmetrl, vhglblmbgz hy kxyngwl,
mknlm bgoxlmfxgml, tgw ebdx vatkzxl, px ybgw matm max zxgxkte xqixgwbmnkxl
hy max Zhoxkgfxgm bg 1925 pxkx lebzamer fhkx matg mpbvx tl etkzx tl bg
1916.

Tl ikbvxl bg 1925 pxkx tiikhqbftmxer 40 ixk vxgm abzaxk matg bg 1916, max
vhlm hy max ltfx Zhoxkgfxgm fnlm telh atox bgvkxtlxw. Unm max Zhoxkgfxgm bl
ghm max ltfx. Bm bl fhkx xqixglbox mh vheexvm max fnva zkxtmxk kxoxgnx
gxvxlltkr tgw mh twfbgblmxk hnk zkxtm wxum. Px atox zboxg xgetkzxw tgw
bfikhoxw lxkobvxl mh tzkbvnemnkx tgw vhffxkvx. Tuhox tee, Tfxkbvt atl zkhpg
bg ihinetmbhg tgw pxtema. Zhoxkgfxgm xqixgwbmnkxl fnlm teptrl latkx bg
mabl zkhpma. Mtdbgz bgmh tvvhngm max ytvmhkl B atox fxgmbhgxw, B uxebxox
matm ikxlxgm Yxwxkte xqixglxl tkx ghm ytk hnm hy ebgx pbma ikx-ptk
xqixglxl. Px atox gxtker tvvhfieblaxw max wxyetmbhg.

Mabl whxl ghm fxtg matm ynkmaxk xvhghfbxl pbee ghm vhfx. Tl px kxwnvx hnk
wxum hnk bgmxkxlm vatkzxl wxvebgx. Maxkx tkx ftgr wxmtbel rxm mh vhkkxvm.
Max kxte bfikhoxfxgm, ahpxoxk, fnlm vhfx ghm ykhf twwbmbhgte vnkmtbefxgm hy
xqixglxl, unm ur t fhkx bgmxeebzxgm, fhkx hkwxkxw lixgwbgz. Hnk xvhghfr
fnlm ux vhglmknvmbox. Pabex px lahnew tohbw tl ytk tl ihllbuex bgvkxtlxl bg
ixkftgxgm vnkkxgm xqixgwbmnkxl, hymxgmbfxl t vtibmte hnmetr ebdx bgmxkgte
bfikhoxfxgml pbee kxlnem bg tvmnte vhglmknvmbox ltobgz. Matm bl xvhghfr bg
bml uxlm lxglx. Bm bl tg tohbwtgvx hy ptlmx matm maxkx ftr ux max fxtgl yhk
tg hnmetr mh-wtr pabva pbee ukbgz etkzxk kxmnkgl mh-fhkkhp. Px lahnew
vhglmtgmer xgztzx bg lvbxgmbybv lmnwbxl hy hnk ynmnkx kxjnbkxfxgml tgw
twhim tg hkwxker ikhzktf yhk maxbk lxkobvx. Xvhghfr bl max fxmahw ur pabva
px ikxitkx mh-wtr mh tyyhkw max bfikhoxfxgml hy mh-fhkkhp.

T fxkx ihebvr hy xvhghfr pbmahnm tgr bglmknfxgmtebmbxl yhk inmmbgz bm bgmh
hixktmbhg phnew ux oxkr bgxyyxvmbox. Max Vhgzkxll atl pblxer lxm ni max
Unkxtn hy max Unwzxm mh bgoxlmbztmx tgw bgyhkf max Ikxlbwxgm patm
kxvhffxgwtmbhgl ax hnzam mh ftdx yhk vnkkxgm tiikhikbtmbhgl. Mabl zboxl t
vxgmktebsxw tnmahkbmr paxkx t zxgxkte tgw vhfikxaxglbox ngwxklmtgwbgz vtg
ux kxtvaxw hy max lhnkvxl hy bgvhfx tgw max fhlm xjnbmtuex wblmkbunmbhg hy
xqixgwbmnkxl. Ahp pxee bm atl phkdxw bl bgwbvtmxw ur max ytvm matm max
wxitkmfxgmte xlmbftmxl yhk 1922, uxyhkx max unwzxm etp, pxkx $4,068,000,000
pabex max Unwzxm xlmbftmxl yhk 1927 tkx $3,156,000,000. Mabl etmmxk ybznkx
lahpl max kxwnvmbhgl bg wxitkmfxgmte xlmbftmxl yhk max vhfbgz rxtk ftwx
ihllbuex ur max hixktmbhg hy max Unwzxm lrlmxf matm max Vhgzkxll atl
ikhobwxw.

Unm bm bl xobwxgmer ghm xghnza mh atox vtkx bg ftdbgz tiikhikbtmbhgl
pbmahnm tgr kxlmktbgm nihg xqixgwbmnkx. Max Vhgzkxll atl ikhobwxw matm
vaxvd ur xlmtueblabgz max hyybvx hy Vhfimkheexk Zxgxkte.

Max inkihlx hy ftbgmtbgbgz max Unwzxm Wbkxvmhk tgw max Vhfimkheexk Zxgxkte
bl mh lxvnkx xvhghfr tgw xyybvbxgvr bg Zhoxkgfxgm xqixgwbmnkx. Gh uxmmxk
fxmahw atl uxxg wxoblxw yhk max tvvhfieblafxgm hy matm xgw. Maxlx hyybvxl
vtg ghm ux twfbgblmxkxw bg tee max otkbhnl wxmtbel pbmahnm ftdbgz lhfx
xkkhkl uhma hy ytvm tgw hy cnwzfxgm. Unm max bfihkmtgm vhglbwxktmbhg
kxftbgl matm maxlx tkx max bglmknfxgmtebmbxl hy max Vhgzkxll tgw matm gh
hmaxk ietg atl xoxk uxxg twhimxw pabva ptl lh lnvvxllyne bg ikhfhmbgz
xvhghfr tgw xyybvbxgvr. Max Vhgzkxll atl tulhenmx tnmahkbmr hoxk max
tiikhikbtmbhgl tgw bl ykxx mh xqxkvblx bml cnwzfxgm, tl max xobwxgvx ftr
ptkktgm, bg bgvkxtlbgz hk wxvkxtlbgz unwzxm kxvhffxgwtmbhgl. Unm bm hnzam
mh kxlblm xoxkr xyyhkm mh pxtdxg hk ukxtd whpg mabl fhlm uxgxybvbte lrlmxf
hy lnixkoblbgz tiikhikbtmbhgl tgw xqixgwbmnkxl. Pbmahnm bm tee max vetbf hy
xvhghfr phnew ux t fxkx ikxmxglx.

MTQTMBHG

Max inkihlx hy kxwnvbgz xqixgwbmnkxl bl mh lxvnkx t kxwnvmbhg bg mtqxl.
Matm inkihlx bl tuhnm mh ux kxtebsxw. Pbma vhffxgwtuex ikhfimgxll max Ptrl
tgw Fxtgl Vhffbmmxx hy max Ahnlx atl ngwxkmtdxg bg twotgvx hy max fxxmbgz
hy max Vhgzkxll mh yktfx t kxoxgnx tvm. Tl max ubee atl ikhvxxwxw makhnza
max vhffbmmxx bm atl mtdxg hg t ghgitkmbltg vatktvmxk, tgw uhma Kxinuebvtgl
tgw Wxfhvktml atox chbgxw bg t fxtlnkx pabva xfuhwbxl ftgr lhngw ikbgvbiexl
hy mtq kxyhkf. Max ubee pbee vhkkxvm lnulmtgmbteer max xvhghfbv wxyxvml
bgcxvmxw bgmh max kxoxgnx tvm hy 1924, tl pxee tl ftgr pabva atox kxftbgxw
tl ptk-mbfx exztvbxl. Bg bml ikxlxgm yhkf bm lahnew ikhobwx lnyybvbxgm
kxoxgnx yhk max Zhoxkgfxgm.

Max xqvxllbox lnkmtqxl atox uxxg kxwnvxw, xlmtmx mtq ktmxl tkx kxlmhkxw mh
fhkx kxtlhgtuex ybznkxl, pbma xoxkr ikhlixvm hy pbmawktpbgz ykhf max ybxew
paxg max Lmtmxl atox atw max hiihkmngbmr mh vhkkxvm max tunlxl bg maxbk hpg
bgaxkbmtgvx mtq etpl, max zbym mtq tgw inuebvbmr lxvmbhg tkx mh ux kxixtexw
ftgr fblvxeetgxhnl mtqxl tkx ehpxkxw hk tutgwhgxw, tgw max Uhtkw hy Mtq
Tiixtel tgw max twfbgblmktmbox yxtmnkxl hy max etp tkx bfikhoxw tgw
lmkxgzmaxgxw. B tiikhox hy max ubee bg ikbgvbiex. Bg lh ytk tl bgvhfx-mtq
xqxfimbhgl tkx vhgvxkgxw, bm lxxfl, mh fx max vhffbmmxx atl zhgx tl ytk tl
bm bl Ltyx mh zh tgw lhfxpatm ynkmaxk matg B lahnew atox zhgx. Tgr ynkmaxk
xqmxglbhg tehgz maxlx ebgxl phnew, bg fr hibgbhg, bfitbk max bgmxzkbmr hy
hnk bgvhfx-mtq lrlmxf.

B tf twoblxw matm max ubee pbee ux makhnza max Ahnlx ur Vakblmftl. Yhk
mabl ikhfim tvmbhg max vhngmkr vtee matgd max zhhw lxglx hy max Ptrl tgw
Fxtgl Vhffbmmxx bg yktfbgz tg xvhghfbv fxtlnkx nihg xvhghfbv
vhglbwxktmbhgl. By mabl tmmbmnwx vhgmbgnxl mh ux kxyexvmxw makhnza max
Vhgzkxll, max mtqitrxk pbee atox abl kxebxy ur max mbfx abl Ftkva 15ma
bglmteefxgm hy bgvhfx mtqxl bl wnx. Ghgitkmbltg xyyhkm fxtgl vxkmtbg, jnbvd
tvmbhg. Wxmxkfbgtmbhg hy t kxoxgnx etp wxybgbmxer, ikhfimer tgw lhexer tl t
kxoxgnx etp, bl hgx hy max zkxtmxlm zbyml t exzbletmnkx vtg uxlmhp nihg bml
vhglmbmnxgml. B vhffxgw max xqtfiex hy ybex Ptrl tgw Fxtgl Vhffbmmxx. By
yheehpxw, bm pbee ietvx lhngw exzbletmbhg nihg max uhhdl bg mbfx mh zbox
max mtqitrxkl max ynee uxgxybm hy mtq kxwnvmbhg gxqm rxtk. Mabl fxtgl matm
max ubee lahnew kxtva fx ikbhk mh Ftkva 15.

Tee maxlx xvhghfbv kxlneml tkx uxbgz lhnzam ghm mh uxgxybm max kbva, unm mh
uxgxybm max ixhiex. Maxr tkx yhk max inkihlx hy xgvhnktzbgz bgwnlmkr bg
hkwxk matm xfiehrfxgm ftr ux iexgmbyne. Maxr lxxd mh ftdx unlbgxll zhhw bg
hkwxk matm ptzxl ftr ux zhhw. Maxr xgvhnktzx ikhlixkbmr bg hkwxk matm
ihoxkmr ftr ux utgblaxw ykhf max ahfx. Maxr, lxxd mh etr max yhngwtmbhg
pabva, makhnza bgvkxtlxw ikhwnvmbhg, ftr, zbox max ixhiex t fhkx uhngmbyne
lniier hy max gxvxlltkbxl hy ebyx, tyyhkw fhkx exblnkx yhk max bfikhoxfxgm
hy max fbgw, max tiikxvbtmbhg hy max tkml hy fnlbv tgw ebmxktmnkx,
lvneimnkx tgw itbgmbgz, tgw max uxgxybvbte xgchrfxgm hy hnmwhhk lihkml tgw
kxvkxtmbhg, xgetkzx max kxlhnkvxl pabva fbgblmxk mh vatkbmr tgw ur tee
maxlx fxtgl tmmxfimbgz mh lmkxgzmaxg max libkbmnte ebyx hy max Gtmbhg.

YHKXBZG KXETMBHGL

Max ihebvr hy hnk yhkxbzg kxetmbhgl, vtlmbgz tlbwx tgr lnzzxlmbhg hy yhkvx,
kxlml lhexer hg max yhngwtmbhg hy ixtvx, zhhw pbee, tgw zhhw phkdl. Px atox
lhnzam, bg hnk bgmxkvhnklx pbma hmaxk gtmbhgl, uxmmxk ngwxklmtgwbgzl
makhnza vhgyxkxgvx tgw xqvatgzx hy obxpl bml uxybml uxbgzl xgwhpxw pbma
kxtlhg. Max kxlneml atox uxxg max zktwnte xebfbgtmbhg hy wblinmxl, max
lxmmexfxgm hy vhgmkhoxklbxl, tgw max xlmtueblafxgm hy t ybkfxk ykbxgwlabi
uxmpxxg Tfxkbvt tgw max kxlm hy max phkew matm atl xoxk xqblmxw mbm tgr
ikxobhnl mbfx.

Max xqtfiex hy mabl tmmbmnwx atl ghm uxxg pbmahnm bml bgyenxgvx nihg hmaxk
vhngmkbxl. Tvmbgz nihg bm, tg twcnlmfxgm ptl ftwx hy max wbyybvnem ikhuexf
hy kxitktmbhgl. Mabl ptl max lxvhgw lmxi mhptkw ixtvx bg Xnkhix. Bm itoxw
max ptr yhk max tzkxxfxgml pabva pxkx wktpg ni tm max Ehvtkgh Vhgyxkxgvx.
Paxg ktmbybxw, maxlx pbee kxikxlxgm max mabkw lmxi mhptkw ixtvx. Pabex maxr
wh ghm hy maxflxeoxl ikhobwx tg xvhghfbv kxatubebmtmbhg, pabva bl gxvxlltkr
yhk max ikhzkxll hy Xnkhix, ur lmkxgzmaxgbgz max zntktgmxxl hy ixtvx maxr
wbfbgbla max gxxw yhk zkxtm tkftfxgml. By max xgxkzr pabva ghp zhxl bgmh
fbebmtkr xyyhkm bl mktglyxkkxw mh ikhwnvmbox xgwxtohk bm pbee zkxtmer
tllblm xvhghfbv ikhzkxll.

Max Ehvtkgh tzkxxfxgml pxkx ftwx ur max, Xnkhixtg vhngmkbxl wbkxvmer
bgmxkxlmxw pbmahnm tgr yhkfte bgmxkoxgmbhg hy Tfxkbvt, temahnza hg Cner 3
B inuebver twohvtmxw lnva tzkxxfxgml bg tg twwkxll ftwx bg Ftlltvanlxmml.
Px atox vhglblmxgmer kxyktbgxw ykhf bgmxkoxgbgz xqvxim paxg hnk axei atl
uxxg lhnzam tgw px atox yxem bm vhnew ux xyyxvmboxer zboxg, tl bg max
lxmmexfxgm hy kxitktmbhgl tgw max Ehgwhg Vhgyxkxgvx. Maxlx kxvxgm Ehvtkgh
tzkxxfxgml kxikxlxgm max lnvvxll hy mabl ihebvr pabva px atox uxxg
bglblmbgz hnzam mh ux twhimxw, hy atobgz Xnkhixtg vhngmkbxl lxmmex maxbk
hpg ihebmbvte ikhuexfl pbmahnm bgoheobgz mabl vhngmkr. Mabl uxzbggbgz lxxfl
mh wxfhglmktmx matm mabl ihebvr bl lhngw. Bm bl xqvxxwbgzer zktmbyrbgz mh
hulxkox mabl ikhzkxll, uhma bg bml fxmahw tgw bg bml kxlnem ikhfblxl lh
fnva matm bl uxgxybvbte mh max phkew.

Paxg maxlx tzkxxfxgml tkx ybgteer twhimxw, maxr pbee ikhobwx zntktgmxxl hy
ixtvx matm ftdx max ikxlxgm ikbfx kxebtgvx nihg yhkvx bg lhfx itkml hy
Xnkhix oxkr fnva exll gxvxlltkr. Max gtmnkte vhkheetkr mh maxlx mkxtmbxl
lahnew ux ynkmaxk bgmxkgtmbhgte vhgmktvml yhk max ebfbmtmbhg hy tkftfxgml.
Mabl phkd ptl lnvvxllyneer uxzng tm max Ptlabgzmhg Vhgyxkxgvx. Ghmabgz ptl
whgx tm matm mbfx vhgvxkgbgz etgw yhkvxl uxvtnlx hy Xnkhixtg hucxvmbhg. Hnk
lmtgwbgz tkfr atl uxxg kxwnvxw mh tkhngw 118,000, tuhnm max gxvxlltkr
ihebvx yhkvx yhk 115,000,000 ixhiex. Px tkx ghm ikhihlbgz mh bgvkxtlx bm,
ghk bl bm lniihltuex matm tgr yhkxbzg vhngmkr ehhdl pbma max lebzamxlm
fbltiikxaxglbhg nihg hnk etgw yhkvxl. Maxr wh ghm fxgtvx tgruhwr. Maxr tkx
ktmaxk t ikhmxvmbhg mh xoxkruhwr.

Max jnxlmbhg hy wbltkfbgz nihg etgw bl lh ixvnebtker Xnkhixtg bg bml
iktvmbvte tlixvml matm hnk vhngmkr phnew ehhd pbma itkmbvnetk zktmbmnwx
nihg tgr tvmbhg pabva mahlx vhngmkbxl fbzam mtdx mh kxwnvx maxbk hpg
fbebmtkr yhkvxl. Mabl bl bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma hnk ihebvr hy ghm bgmxkoxgbgz
ngexll max Xnkhixtg ihpxkl tkx ngtuex mh tzkxx tgw ftdx kxjnxlm yhk hnk
tllblmtgvx. Paxgxoxk maxr tkx tuex mh tzkxx hy maxbk hpg tvvhkw bm bl
xlixvbteer zktmbyrbgz mh bml, tgw lnva tzkxxfxgml ftr ux lnkx hy hnk
lrfitmaxmbv lniihkm.

Bm lxxfl vextk matm bm bl max kxwnvmbhg hy tkfbxl ktmaxk matg hy gtobxl
matm bl hy max ybklm bfihkmtgvx mh max phkew tm max ikxlxgm mbfx. Px latee
ehhd pbma zkxtm ltmblytvmbhg nihg matm xyyhkm tgw zbox bm hnk tiikhutmbhg
tgw xgvhnktzxfxgm. By matm vtg ux lxmmexw, px ftr fhkx xtlber vhglbwxk
ynkmaxk kxwnvmbhg tgw ebfbmtmbhg hy gtote tkftfxgml. Yhk matm inkihlx hnk
vhngmkr atl vhglmtgmer makhnza bml Xqxvnmbox, tgw makhnza kxixtmxw tvml hy
Vhgzkxll, bgwbvtmxw bml pbeebgzgxll mh vtee lnva t vhgyxkxgvx. Ngwxk
vhgzkxllbhgte ltgvmbhg bm phnew lxxf mh ux pblx mh itkmbvbitmx bg tgr
vhgyxkxgvx hy max zkxtm ihpxkl yhk gtote ebfbmtmbhg hy tkftfxgm ikhihlxw
nihg lnva vhgwbmbhgl matm bm phnew ahew t ytbk ikhfblx hy uxbgz xyyxvmbox.
Max zxgxkte ihebvr hy hnk vhngmkr bl yhk wbltkftfxgm, tgw bm hnzam ghm mh
axlbmtmx mh twhim tgr iktvmbvte ietg matm fbzam kxtlhgtuer ux xqixvmxw mh
lnvvxxw. Unm bm phnew ghm vtkx mh tmmxgw t vhgyxkxgvx pabva ykhf bml
ehvtmbhg hk vhglmbmnxgvr phnew bg tee ikhutubebmr ikhox ynmbex.

Bg max ynkmaxk inklnbm, hy lmkxgzmaxgbgz max uhgwl hy ixtvx tgw zhhw pbee
px atox chbgxw pbma hmaxk gtmbhgl bg tg bgmxkgtmbhgte vhgyxkxgvx axew tm
Zxgxot tgw lbzgxw tg tzkxxfxgm pabva pbee ux etbw uxyhkx max Lxgtmx yhk
ktmbybvtmbhg ikhobwbgz lnbmtuex fxtlnkxl yhk vhgmkhe tgw yhk inuebvbmr bg
bgmxkgtmbhgte mktwx bg tkfl, tffngbmbhg, tgw bfiexfxgml hy ptk, tgw telh
xqxvnmxw t ikhmhvhe ikhobwbgz yhk t ikhabubmbhg hy max nlx hy ihblhg ztl bg
ptk, bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma max ikbgvbiexl hy Tkmbvex 5 hy max mkxtmr kxetmbgz
maxkxmh lbzgxw tm max Ptlabgzmhg Vhgyxkxgvx. Px tkx lniihkmbgz max Itg
Tfxkbvtg xyyhkml matm tkx uxbgz ftwx mhptkw max vhwbybvtmbhg hy
bgmxkgtmbhgte etp, tgw ehhdbgz pbma lrfitmar hbe max bgoxlmbztmbhgl
vhgwnvmxw ngwxk iabetgmakhibv tnlibvxl hy max ikhihlte mh tzkxxfxgml
hnmetpbgz ptk. Bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma ikhfblxl ftwx tm max Ptlabgzmhg
Vhgyxkxgvx, px atox nkzxw max vteebgz hy tgw tkx ghp kxikxlxgmxw tm max
Vabgxlx Vnlmhfl Vhgyxkxgvx tgw hg max Vhffbllbhg hg Xqmktmxkkbmhkbtebmr,
paxkx bm pbee ux hnk ihebvr lh ytk tl ihllbuex mh fxxm max, tlibktmbhgl hy
Vabgt bg tee ptrl vhglblmxgm pbma max bgmxkxlml hy max vhngmkbxl bgoheoxw.

VHNKM HY BGMXKGTMBHGTE CNLMBVX

Ixgwbgz uxyhkx max Lxgtmx yhk gxtker makxx rxtkl bl max ikhihlte mh twaxkx
mh max ikhmhvhe xlmtueblabgz max Ixkftgxgm Vhnkm hy Bgmxkgtmbhgte Cnlmbvx.
T pxee-xlmtueblaxw ebgx hy ikxvxwxgml ftkd Tfxkbvt'l xyyhkm mh xyyxvm max
xlmtueblafxgm hy bm vhnkm hy mabl gtmnkx.. Px mhhd t extwbgz itkm bg etrbgz
max yhngwtmbhg hg pabva bm kxlml bg max xlmtueblafxgm hy Max Atznx Vhnkm hy
Tkubmktmbhg. Bm bl matm mkbungte pabva ghfbgtmxl max cnwzxl pah tkx xexvmxw
ur max Vhngvbe tgw Tllxfuer hy max Extznx hy Gtmbhgl.

Max ikhihlte lnufbmmxw mh max Lxgtmx ptl ftwx wxixgwxgm nihg yhnk
vhgwbmbhgl, max ybklm hy pabva bl matm ur lniihkmbgz max vhnkm px wh ghm
tllnfx tgr huebztmbhgl ngwxk max extznx; lxvhgw, matm px ftr itkmbvbitmx
nihg tg xjntebmr pbma hmaxk Lmtmxl bg max xexvmbhg hy cnwzxl; mabkw, matm
max Vhgzkxll latee wxmxkfbgx patm itkm hy max xqixglxl px latee uxtk;
yhnkma, matm max lmtmnmx vkxtmbgz max vhnkm latee ghm ux tfxgwxw pbmahnm
hnm vhglxgm; tgw mh maxlx B atox ikhihlxw tg twwbmbhgte vhgwbmbhg mh max
xyyxvm matm px tkx ghm mh ux uhngw ur twoblhkr hibgbhgl kxgwxkxw pbmahnm
hnk vhglxgm.

Max vhnkm tiixtkl mh ux bgwxixgwxgm hy max extznx. Bm bl mknx max cnwzxl
tkx xexvmxw ur max Tllxfuer tgw Vhngvbe, unm maxr tkx ghfbgtmxw ur max
Vhnkm hy Tkubmktmbhg, pabva px tllblmxw mh vkxtmx tgw hy pabva px tkx t
itkm. Max vhnkm ptl vkxtmxw ur bm lmtmnmx, lh-vteexw, pabva bl kxteer t
mkxtmr ftwx tfhgz lhfx yhkmr-xbzam wbyyxkxgm vhngmkbxl, matm fbzam ikhixker
ux vteexw t vhglmbmnmbhg hy max vhnkm. Mabl lmtmnmx ikhobwxl t fxmahw ur
pabva max cnwzxl tkx vahlxg lh matm paxg max Vhnkm hy Tkubmktmbhg
ghfbgtmxl maxf tgw max Tllxfuer tgw Vhngvbe hy max Extznx xexvm maxf, maxr
tkx ghm tvmbgz tl bglmknfxgml hy max Vhnkm hy Tkubmktmbhg hk bglmknfxgml hy
max extznx, unm tl bglmknfxgml hy max lmtmnmx.

Mabl pbee ux xoxg fhkx tiitkxgm by hnk kxikxlxgmtmboxl lbm pbma max fxfuxkl
hy max vhngvbe tgw tllxfuer bg xexvmbgz max cnwzxl. Bm bl mknx maxr tkx
itbw makhnza max extznx mahnza ghm ur max extznx, unm ur max vhngmkbxl
pabva tkx fxfuxkl hy max extznx tgw ur hnk vhngmkr by px tvvxim max
ikhmhvhe. Max cnwzxl tkx itbw ur max extznx hger bg max ltfx lxglx matm bm
vhnew ux ltbw Ngbmxw Lmtmxl cnwzxl tkx itbw ur max Vhgzkxll. Max vhnkm
wxkboxl tee bml tnmahkbmr ykhf max lmtmnmx tgw bl lh vhfiexmxer bgwxixgwxgm
hy max extznx matm bm vhnew zh hg yngvmbhgbgz by max extznx pxkx wblutgwxw,
tm extlm ngmbe max mxkfl hy max cnwzxl xqibkxw.

Max fhlm vtkxyne ikhoblbhgl tkx ftwx bg max lmtmnmx tl mh max
jntebybvtmbhgl hy cnwzxl. Mahlx pah ftdx max ghfbgtmbhgl tkx kxvhffxgwxw mh
vhglnem pbma maxbk abzaxlm vhnkm hy cnlmbvx, maxbk etp lvahhel tgw
tvtwxfbxl. Max cnwzxl fnlm ux ixklhgl hy abza fhkte vatktvmxk, jntebybxw mh
ahew max abzaxlm cnwbvbte hyybvxl bg matm vhngmkr, hk ux cnkblvhglneml hy
kxvhzgbsxw vhfixmxgvx bg bgmxkgtmbhgte etp. Bm fnlm ux tllnfxw matm maxlx
kxjnbkxfxgml pbee vhgmbgnx mh ux vtkxyneer fxm, tgw pbma Tfxkbvt chbgbgz
max vhngmkbxl tekxtwr vhgvxkgxw bm bl wbyybvnem mh vhfikxaxgw ahp anftg
bgzxgnbmr vhnew uxmmxk ikhobwx yhk max xlmtueblafxgm hy t vhnkm pabva phnew
ftbgmtbg bml bgwxixgwxgvx. Bm atl mh ux kxvhzgbsxw matm bgwxixgwxgvx bl mh
t vhglbwxktuex xqmxgm t ftmmxk hy tubebmr, vatktvmxk, tgw ixklhgtebmr. Lhfx
xyyhkm ptl ftwx bg max xtker uxzbggbgzl mh bgmxkyxkx pbma max bgwxixgwxgvx
hy hnk Lnikxfx Vhnkm. Bm wbw ghm lnvvxxw uxvtnlx hy max jntebmr hy max fxg
pah ftwx ni matm mkbungte.

Bm whxl ghm lxxf matm max tnmahkbmr mh zbox twoblhkr hibgbhgl bgmxkyxkxl
pbma max bgwxixgwxgvx hy max vhnkm. Twoblhkr hibgbhgl bg tgw hy maxflxeoxl
tkx ghm atkfyne, unm ftr ux nlxw bg lnva t ptr tl mh ux oxkr uxgxybvbte
uxvtnlx maxr ngwxkmtdx mh ikxoxgm bgcnkr ktmaxk matg fxkxer tyyhkw t kxfxwr
tymxk max bgcnkr atl uxxg whgx. Tl t ikbgvbiex matm hger bfiebxl matm max
vhnkm latee yngvmbhg paxg ikhixk tiiebvtmbhg bl ftwx mh bm. Wxvbwbgz max
jnxlmbhg bgoheoxw nihg bllnxl lnufbmmxw yhk tg twoblhkr hibgbhg whxl ghm
wbyyxk ftmxkbteer ykhf wxvbwbgz max jnxlmbhg bgoheoxw nihg bllnxl lnufbmmxw
ur vhgmxgwbgz itkmbxl. Ni mh max ikxlxgm mbfx max vhnkm atl zboxg tg
twoblhkr hibgbhg paxg bm cnwzxw bm atw cnkblwbvmbhg, tgw kxynlxw mh zbox
hgx paxg bm cnwzxw bm wbw ghm atox cnkblwbvmbhg. Ghmabgz bg max phkd hy max
vhnkm atl rxm uxxg tg bgwbvtmbhg matm mabl bl tg bfitbkfxgm hy bml
bgwxixgwxgvx hk matm bml iktvmbvx wbyyxkl ftmxkbteer ykhf max zbobgz hy
ebdx hibgbhgl ngwxk max tnmahkbmr hy max vhglmbmnmbhgl hy lxoxkte hy hnk
Lmtmxl.

Gh ikhoblbhg hy max lmtmnmx lxxfl mh fx mh zbox mabl vhnkm tgr tnmahkbmr mh
ux t ihebmbvte ktmaxk matg t cnwbvbte vhnkm. Px atox ukhnzam vtlxl bg mabl
vhngmkr uxyhkx hnk vhnkml pabva, paxg maxr atox uxxg twcnwzxw mh ux
ihebmbvte, atox uxxg maxkxur wblfbllxw. Bm bl ghm bfikhutuex matm ihebmbvte
jnxlmbhgl pbee ux lnufbmmxw mh mabl vhnkm, unm tztbg ni mh max ikxlxgm mbfx
max vhnkm atl kxynlxw mh itll hg ihebmbvte jnxlmbhgl tgw hnk lniihkm phnew
ngwhnumxwer atox t mxgwxgvr mh lmkxgzmaxg bm bg matm kxynlte.

Px tkx ghm ikhihlbgz mh lnucxvm hnklxeoxl mh tgr vhfinelhkr cnkblwbvmbhg.
By px lniihkm max vhnkm, px vtg gxoxk ux huebzxw mh lnufbm tgr vtlx pabva
bgoheoxl hnk bgmxkxlml yhk bml wxvblbhg. Hnk tiixtktgvx uxyhkx bm phnew
teptrl ux ohengmtkr, yhk max inkihlx hy ikxlxgmbgz t vtlx pabva px atw
tzkxxw fbzam ux ikxlxgmxw. Maxkx bl gh fhkx wtgzxk matm hmaxkl fbzam ukbgz
vtlxl uxyhkx max vhnkm bgoheobgz hnk bgmxkxlml pabva px wbw ghm pbla mh
atox ukhnzam, tymxk px atox twaxkxw, tgw ikhutuer ghm lh fnva, matg maxkx
phnew ux hy ukbgzbgz lnva vtlxl by px wh ghm twaxkx. B mabgd matm px phnew
atox max ltfx exzte hk fhkte kbzam mh wblkxztkw lnva t ybgwbgz bg max hgx
vtlx matm px phnew bg max hmaxk.

By px tkx zhbgz mh lniihkm tgr vhnkm, bm pbee ghm ux hgx matm px atox lxm
ni tehgx hk pabva kxyexvml hger hnk bwxtel. Hmaxk gtmbhgl atox maxbk
vnlmhfl tgw maxbk bglmbmnmbhgl, maxbk mahnzaml tgw maxbk fxmahwl hy ebyx.
By t vhnkm bl zhbgz mh ux bgmxkgtmbhgte, bml vhfihlbmbhg pbee atox mh rbxew
mh patm bl zhhw bg tee maxlx otkbhnl xexfxgml. Gxbmaxk pbee bm ux ihllbuex
mh lniihkm t vhnkm pabva bl xqtvmer ixkyxvm, hk ngwxk pabva px tllnfx
tulhenmxer gh huebztmbhgl. By px tkx lxxdbgz matm hiihkmngbmr, px fbzam tl
pxee wxvetkx matm px tkx hiihlxw mh lniihkmbgz tgr vhnkm. By tgr tzkxxfxgm
bl ftwx, bm pbee ux uxvtnlx bm ngwxkmtdxl mh lxm ni t mkbungte pabva vtg wh
lhfx hy max mabgzl matm hmaxk gtmbhgl pbla mh atox whgx. Px latee ghm ybgw
hnklxeoxl uxtkbgz t wblikhihkmbhgtmx latkx hy max phkew'l unkwxgl ur hnk
twaxkxgvx, tgw px ftr tl pxee kxfxfuxk matm maxkx bl tulhenmxer gh xlvtix
yhk hnk vhngmkr ykhf uxtkbgz bml latkx hy max phkew'l unkwxgl bg tgr vtlx.
Px latee wh ytk uxmmxk lxkobvx mh hnklxeoxl tgw mh hmaxkl by px twfbm mabl
tgw wblvatkzx hnk wnmbxl ohengmtkber, matg by px wxgr bm tgw tkx yhkvxw mh
fxxm max ltfx huebztmbhgl ngpbeebgzer.

Bm bl wbyybvnem mh bftzbgx tgrmabgz matm phnew ux fhkx axeiyne mh max phkew
matg lmtubebmr, mktgjnbebmr tgw bgmxkgtmbhgte cnlmbvx. Px ftr ltr matm px
tkx vhgmkbunmbgz mh maxlx ytvmhkl bgwxixgwxgmer, unm hmaxkl exll
yhkmngtmxer ehvtmxw wh ghm tgw vtg ghm ftdx t ebdx vhgmkbunmbhg xqvxim
makhnza fnmnte vhhixktmbhg. Max hew utetgvx hy ihpxk, fnmnte teebtgvxl, tgw
zkxtm fbebmtkr yhkvxl pxkx ghm ukhnzam uhnm ur tgr fnmnte wblebdx yhk
bgwxixgwxgvx, unm kxlnemxw ykhf max whfbgtmbhg hy vbkvnflmtgvxl. Nembftmxer
maxr pxkx yhkvxw hg nl. Ebdx tee hmaxkl xgztzxw bg max ptk patmxoxk px ltbw
tl t ftmmxk hy ytvm px chbgxw tg teebtgvx, px uxvtfx t fbebmtkr ihpxk, px
bfitbkxw hnk bgwxixgwxgvx. Px atox fhkx tm lmtdx matg tgr hgx xelx bg
tohbwbgz t kxixmbmbhg hy matm vtetfbmr. Ptkl wh ghm, likbgz bgmh xqblmxgvx.
Maxr tkblx ykhf lftee bgvbwxgml tgw mkbyebgz bkkbmtmbhgl pabva vtg ux
twcnlmxw ur tg bgmxkgtmbhgte vhnkm. Px vtg vhgmkbunmx zkxtmer mh max
twotgvxfxgm hy hnk bwxtel ur chbgbgz pbma hmaxk gtmbhgl bg ftbgmtbgbgz lnva
t mkbungte.

YHKXBZG WXUML

Zktwnteer, lxmmexfxgml atox uxxg ftwx pabva ikhobwx yhk max ebjnbwtmbhg hy
wxuml wnx mh hnk Zhoxkgfxgm ykhf yhkxbzg zhoxkgfxgml. Mahlx ftwx pbma Zkxtm
Ukbmtbg, Ybgetgw, Angztkr Ebmantgbt, tgw Ihetgw atox tekxtwr uxxg tiikhoxw
ur max Vhgzkxll. Lbgvx max twchnkgfxgm, ynkmaxk tzkxxfxgml atox uxxg
xgmxkxw bgmh pbma Uxezbnf, Vsxvahlehotdbt, Etmobt, Xlmhgbt, Bmter, tgw
Knftgbt. Maxlx 11 gtmbhgl, pabva atox tekxtwr ftwx lxmmexfxgml, kxikxlxgm
$6,419,528,641 hy max hkbzbgte ikbgvbite hy max ehtgl. Max ikbgvbite lnfl
pbmahnm bgmxkxlm, lmbee ixgwbgz, tkx max wxum hy Yktgvx, hy $3,340,000,000;
Zkxxvx, $15,000,000; Rnzhletobt, $.51,000,000; Ebuxkbt, $26,000; Knllbt,
$192,000,000, pabva mahlx tm ikxlxgm bg vhgmkhe atox ngwxkmtdxg, hixger mh
kxinwbtmx; Gbvtktznt, $84,000, pabva bl uxbgz itbw vnkkxgmer; tgw Tnlmkbt,
$24,000,000, hg pabva ur tvm hy Vhgzkxll t fhktmhkbnf hy 20 rxtkl atl uxxg
zktgmxw. Max hger kxftbgbgz lnf bl $12,000,000, wnx ykhf Tkfxgbt, pabva atl
ghp vxtlxw mh xqblm tl tg bgwxixgwxgm gtmbhg.

Bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma max lxmmexfxgml ftwx, max tfhngm hy ikbgvbite tgw
bgmxkxlm pabva bl mh ux itbw mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ngwxk maxlx tzkxxfxgml
tzzkxztmx $15,200,688,253.93. Bm bl huobhnl matm max kxftbgbgz lxmmexfxgml,
pabva pbee ngwhnumxwer ux ftwx, pbee ukbgz mabl lnf ni mh tg tfhngm pabva
pbee fhkx matg xjnte max ikbgvbite wnx hg hnk ikxlxgm gtmbhgte wxum. Pabex
maxlx lxmmexfxgml tkx oxkr etkzx bg max tzzkxztmx, bm atl uxxg yxem matm
max mxkfl zktgmxw pxkx bg tee vtlxl oxkr zxgxkhnl. Maxr bfihlx gh ngwnx
unkwxg tgw tkx fnmnteer uxgxybvbte bg max hulxkotgvx hy bgmxkgtmbhgte ytbma
tgw max bfikhoxfxgm hy bgmxkgtmbhgte vkxwbm.

Xoxkr kxtlhgtuex xyyhkm pbee ux ftwx mh lxvnkx tzkxxfxgml yhk ebjnbwtmbhg
pbma max kxftbgbgz vhngmkbxl, paxgxoxk maxr tkx bg lnva vhgwbmbhg matm maxr
vtg ux ftwx. Mahlx pabva atox tekxtwr uxxg gxzhmbtmxw ngwxk max ubitkmbltg
vhffbllbhg xlmtueblaxw ur max Vhgzkxll atox uxxg ftwx hger tymxk max fhlm
mahkhnzazhbgz tgw itbglmtdbgz bgoxlmbztmbhg, vhgmbgnxw yhk t ehgz mbfx
uxyhkx fxxmbgz pbma max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max vhngmkbxl vhgvxkgxw. Bm bl
uxebxoxw matm maxr kxikxlxgm bg xtva bglmtgvx max uxlm matm vtg ux whgx tgw
max pblxlm lxmmexfxgm matm vtg ux lxvnkxw. Hgx oxkr bfihkmtgm kxlnem bl max
lmtubebstmbhg hy yhkxbzg vnkkxgvr, ftdbgz xqvatgzx tllblm ktmaxk matg
xfutkktll hnk mktwx. Paxkxoxk ltvkbybvxl atox uxxg ftwx hy fhgxr, bm pbee
ux fhkx matg tfier kxmnkgxw bg uxmmxk ngwxklmtgwbgz tgw ykbxgwlabi, pabex
bg lh ytk tl maxlx twcnlmfxgml pbee vhgmkbunmx mh max ybgtgvbte lmtubebmr
hy max wxumhk vhngmkbxl, mh maxbk zhhw hkwxk, ikhlixkbmr, tgw ikhzkxll,
maxr kxikxlxgm ahix hy bfikhoxw mktwx kxetmbhgl tgw fnmnte vhgmkbunmbhgl mh
max vbobebstmbhg hy max phkew.

TEBXG IKHUEXF

Gxzhmbtmbhgl tkx ikhzkxllbgz tfhgz max bgmxkxlmxw itkmbxl bg kxetmbhg mh
max ybgte wblmkbunmbhg hy max tllxml bg max atgwl hy max Tebxg Ikhixkmr
Vnlmhwbtg. Hnk Zhoxkgfxgm tgw ixhiex tkx bgmxkxlmxw tl vkxwbmhkl; max
Zxkftg Zhoxkgfxgm tgw ixhiex tkx bgmxkxlmxw tl wxumhkl tgw hpgxkl hy max
lxbsxw ikhixkmr. Ixgwbgz max hnmvhfx hy maxlx gxzhmbtmbhgl, B wh ghm
kxvhffxgw tgr tyybkftmbox exzbletmbhg. Yhk max ikxlxgm px lahnew vhgmbgnx
bg ihllxllbhg hy mabl ikhixkmr pabva px ahew tl lxvnkbmr yhk max lxmmexfxgm
hy vetbfl wnx mh hnk ixhiex tgw hnk Zhoxkgfxgm.

BFFBZKTMBHG

Pabex ghm xghnza mbfx atl xetilxw mh tyyhkw t vhgvenlbox wxfhglmktmbhg,
lnva kxlneml tl atox uxxg lxvnkxw bgwbvtmx matm hnk bffbzktmbhg etp bl hg
max pahex uxgxybvbte. Bm bl ngwhnumxwer t ikhmxvmbhg mh max ptzx xtkgxkl hy
mabl vhngmkr. Max lbmntmbhg lahnew ahpxoxk, ux vtkxyneer lnkoxrxw, bg hkwxk
mh tlvxkmtbg paxmaxk bm bl phkdbgz t gxxwexll atkwlabi nihg hnk hpg
bgatubmtgml. By bm wxikboxl maxf hy max vhfyhkm tgw lhvbxmr hy mahlx uhngw
mh maxf ur vehlx ytfber mbxl, lnva fhwbybvtmbhgl lahnew ux twhimxw tl pbee
tyyhkw kxebxy, teptrl bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma max ikbgvbiex matm hnk Zhoxkgfxgm
hpxl bml ybklm wnmr mh hnk hpg ixhiex tgw matm gh tebxg, bgatubmtgm hy
tghmaxk vhngmkr, atl tgr exzte kbzaml patmxoxk ngwxk hnk Vhglmbmnmbhg tgw
etpl. Bm bl hger makhnza mkxtmr, hk makhnza kxlbwxgvx axkx matm lnva kbzaml
tvvknx. Unm px lahnew ghm, ahpxoxk, ux yhkzxmyne hy max huebztmbhgl hy t
vhffhg anftgbmr.

Pabex hnk vhngmkr gnfuxkl tfhgz bml uxlm vbmbsxgl ftgr hy mahlx hy yhkxbzg
ubkma, rxm mahlx pah ghp xgmxk bg obhetmbhg hy hnk etpl ur matm oxkr tvm
maxkxur ietvx maxflxeoxl bg t vetll hy ngwxlbktuexl. Bgoxlmbztmbhg
kxoxtel matm tgr vhglbwxktuex gnfuxk tkx vhfbgz axkx bg wxybtgvx hy hnk
bffbzktmbhg kxlmkbvmbhgl, bm pbee ngwhnumxwer vkxtmx max gxvxllbmr yhk max
kxzblmktmbhg hy tee tebxgl. Px hnzam mh atox gh ikxcnwbvx tztbglm tg tebxg
uxvtnlx ax bl tg tebxg. Max lmtgwtkw pabva px tiier mh hnk bgatubmtgml bl
matm hy ftgahhw, ghm ietvx hy ubkma. Kxlmkbvmbox bffbzktmbhg bl mh t etkzx
wxzkxx yhk xvhghfbv inkihlxl. Bm bl tiiebxw bg hkwxk matm px ftr ghm atox t
etkzxk tggnte bgvkxfxgm hy zhhw ixhiex pbmabg hnk uhkwxkl matg px vtg pxtox
bgmh hnk xvhghfbv ytukbv bg lnva t ptr tl mh lniier maxbk gxxwl pbmahnm
ngwnx bgcnkr mh hnklxeoxl.

GTMBHGTE WXYXGLX

Gxoxk uxyhkx bg mbfx hy ixtvx atl hnk vhngmkr ftbgmtbgxw lh etkzx tgw
xyyxvmbox t fbebmtkr yhkvx tl bm ghp atl. Max Tkfr, Gtor, Ftkbgx Vhkil,
Gtmbhgte Zntkw, tgw Hkztgbsxw Kxlxkoxl kxikxlxgm t lmkxgzma hy tuhnm
558,400 fxg. Maxlx yhkvxl tkx pxee mktbgxw, pxee xjnbiixw, tgw abza bg
fhktex.

T lhngw lxexvmbox lxkobvx tvm zbobgz ukhtw tnmahkbmr yhk max fhubebstmbhg
bg mbfx hy ixkbe hy tee max kxlhnkvxl hy max vhngmkr, uhma ixklhgl tgw
ftmxkbtel, bl gxxwxw mh ixkyxvm hnk wxyxglx ihebvr bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma hnk
bwxtel hy xjntebmr. Max ikhoblbhg yhk fhkx lnbmtuex ahnlbgz mh ux itbw yhk
hnm hy yngwl wxkboxw ykhf max ltex hy xqvxll etgwl, ixgwbgz uxyhkx max etlm
Vhgzkxll, hnzam mh ux ukhnzam yhkptkw tgw itllxw. Kxtlhgtuex kxietvxfxgml
hnzam mh ux ftwx mh ftbgmtbg t lnyybvbxgm tffngbmbhg kxlxkox.

Max Gtor atl max ynee mkxtmr mhggtzx hy vtibmte labil. Phkd bl zhbgz
yhkptkw bg fhwxkgbsbgz max hewxk hgxl, unbewbgz tbkvktym vtkkbxkl,
twwbmbhgte yexxm lnuftkbgxl, tgw ytlm lvhnm vknblxkl, unm px tkx vtkxyneer
tohbwbgz tgrmabgz matm fbzam ux vhglmknxw tl t vhfixmbmbhg bg tkftfxgml
pbma hmaxk gtmbhgl. Max chbgm Tkfr tgw Gtor ftgxnoxkl tm Atptbb, yheehpxw
ur max vknblx hy t ynee Utmmex Yexxm mh Tnlmktebt tgw Gxp Sxtetgw, pxkx
lnvvxllyneer vtkkbxw hnm. Maxlx wxfhglmktmbhgl kxoxtexw t fhlm ltmblytvmhkr
vhgwbmbhg hy max labil tgw max fxg xgztzxw.

Etlm rxtk tm fr lnzzxlmbhg max Zxgxkte Uhtkw hy max Gtor ftwx tg
bgoxlmbztmbhg tgw kxihkm hg max kxetmbhg hy tbkvktym mh ptklabil. Tl t
kxlnem tnmahkbstmbhgl tgw tiikhikbtmbhgl pxkx ftwx yhk fhkx lvhnm vknblxkl
tgw yexxm lnuftkbgxl tgw yhk vhfiexmbgz tbkvktym vtkkbxkl tgw xjnbiibgz
maxf pbma gxvxlltkr ietgxl. Twwbmbhgte mktbgbgz bg tobtmbhg ptl uxzng tm
max Fbebmtkr tgw Gtote Tvtwxfbxl. T fxmahw hy vhhkwbgtmbhg tgw vhhixktmbhg
hy max Tkfr tgw Gtor tgw max ikbgvbite tbkvktym unbewxkl bl uxbgz
ixkyxvmxw. Tm max lnzzxlmbhg hy max Lxvkxmtkbxl hy Ptk tgw Gtor B tiihbgmxw
t lixvbte uhtkw mh ftdx t ynkmaxk lmnwr hy max ikhuexf hy tbkvktym.

Max kxihkm hy max Tbk Uhtkw hnzam mh ux kxtllnkbgz mh max vhngmkr,
zktmbyrbgz mh max lxkobvx tgw ltmblytvmhkr mh max Vhgzkxll. Bm bl
mahkhnzaer vhfiexmx tgw kxikxlxgml max ftmnkx mahnzam hy max uxlm mtexgm bg
max vhngmkr. Gh ktwbvte vatgzx bg hkztgbstmbhg hy max lxkobvx lxxfl
gxvxlltkr. Max Wxitkmfxgml hy Ptk, Gtor, tgw Vhffxkvx lahnew xtva ux
ikhobwxw pbma tg twwbmbhgte tllblmtgm lxvkxmtkr, ghm gxvxlltkber pbma
lmtmnmhkr wnmbxl unm pah phnew ux totbetuex ngwxk max wbkxvmbhg hy max
Lxvkxmtkr mh zbox xlixvbte tmmxgmbhg mh tbk gtobztmbhg. Px fnlm atox tg tbk
lmkxgzma phkmar hy Tfxkbvt. Ikhoblbhg lahnew ux ftwx yhk mph twwbmbhgte
ukbztwbxk zxgxktel yhk max Tkfr Tbk Lxkobvx. Mxfihktkr ktgd vhkkxlihgwbgz
mh maxbk wnmbxl lahnew ux tptkwxw mh tvmbox yerbgz hyybvxkl bg uhma Tkfr
tgw Gtor.

Tobtmbhg bl hy zkxtm bfihkmtgvx uhma yhk gtmbhgte wxyxglx tgw vhffxkvbte
wxoxehifxgm. Px hnzam mh ikhvxxw bg bml bfikhoxfxgm ur max gxvxlltkr
xqixkbfxgm tgw bgoxlmbztmbhg. Hnk vhngmkr bl ghm uxabgw bg mabl tkm. Bm atl
ftwx kxvhkwl yhk lixxw tgw yhk max xqvxeexgvx hy bml ietgxl. Bm hnzam mh zh
hg ftbgmtbgbgz bml ftgnytvmnkbgz ietgml vtituex hy ktibw ikhwnvmbhg, zbobgz
gtmbhgte tllblmtgvx mh max et bg hnm hy tbkptrl, xjnbiibgz bmlxey pbma t
fhwxktmx gnfuxk hy ietgxl tgw dxxibgz tg tbk yhkvx mktbgxw mh max abzaxlm
xyybvbxgvr.

Pabex B tf t mahkhnza uxebxoxk bg gtmbhgte wxyxglx tgw xgmbkxer vhffbmmxw
mh max ihebvr hy twxjntmx ikxitktmbhg, B tf cnlm tl mahkhnzaer hiihlxw mh
bglmbztmbgz hk itkmbvbitmbgz bg t ihebvr hy vhfixmbmbox tkftfxgml. Ghk whxl
ikxitktmbhg fxtg t ihebvr hy fbebmtkbsbgz. Hnk ixhiex tgw bgwnlmkbxl tkx
lhebvbmhnl yhk max vtnlx hy 0111, vhngmkr, tgw atox zkxtm kxlixvm yhk max
Tkfr tgw Gtor tgw yhbe max ngbyhkf phkg ur max fxg pah lmtgw kxtwr tm tee
mbfxl yhk hnk ikhmxvmbhg mh xgvhngmxk max wtgzxkl tgw ixkbel gxvxlltkr mh
fbebmtkr lxkobvx, unm tee hy maxlx tvmbobmbxl tkx mh ux mtdxg ghm bg uxatey
hy tzzkxllbhg unm bg uxatey hy ixtvx. Maxr tkx max bglmknfxgml ur pabva px
ngwxkmtdx mh wh hnk itkm mh ikhfhmx zhhw pbee tgw lniihkm lmtubebmr tfhgz
tee ixhiexl.

OXMXKTGL

By tgr hgx wxlbkxl mh xlmbftmx max xlmxxf bg pabva max oxmxktgl hy Tfxkbvt
tkx axew ur maxbk yxeehp vbmbsxgl, bm bl unm gxvxlltkr mh kxfxfuxk matm max
vnkkxgm unwzxm vteel yhk tg xqixgwbmnkx hy tuhnm $650,000.000 bg maxbk
uxatey. Mabl bl gxtker max tfhngm hy max mhmte vhlm hy max Gtmbhgte
Zhoxkgfxgm, xqvenlbox hy max ihlm hyybvx, uxyhkx px xgmxkxw max etlm ptk.

Tm max mph ikxobhnl lxllbhgl hy Vhgzkxll exzbletmbhg tyyxvmbgz oxmxktgl'
kxebxy ptl xgtvmxw tgw max etp ebuxktebsxw. Mabl exzbletmbhg ukhnzam bgmh
uxbgz t gnfuxk hy gxp ikhoblbhgl mxgwbgz fhkx gxtker mh fxxm max gxxwl hy
hnk oxmxktgl, tl pxee tl tyyhkw max gxvxlltkr tnmahkbmr mh ixkyxvm max
twfbgblmktmbhg hy maxlx etpl.

Xqixkbxgvx pbma max gxp exzbletmbhg lh ytk atl vextker wxfhglmktmxw bml
vhglmknvmbox gtmnkx. Bm atl bgvkxtlxw max uxgxybml kxvxboxw ur ftgr tgw atl
ftwx xebzbuex yhk uxgxybml ftgr hmaxkl. Wbkxvm wblunklxfxgml mh max oxmxktg
hk abl wxixgwxgml xqvxxwbgz $21,000,000 atox kxlnemxw, pabva hmaxkpblx
phnew ghm atox uxxg ftwx. Max wxzkxx hy nmbebstmbhg hy hnk ahlibmtel atl
bgvkxtlxw makhnza ftdbgz ytvbebmbxl totbetuex mh max bgvtitvbmtmxw oxmxktg
kxztkwexll hy lxkobvx hkbzbg hy max wbltubebmr. Mabl gxp exzbletmbhg telh
atl ukhnzam tuhnm t ftkdxw bfikhoxfxgm hy lxkobvx mh max oxmxktg.

Max hkztgbstmbhgl hy xq-lxkobvx fxg atox ikhihlxw twwbmbhgte exzbletmbox
vatgzxl pabva rhn pbee vhglbwxk, unm ngmbe max gxp etp tgw max
fhwbybvtmbhgl ftwx tm max etlm lxllbhg hy Vhgzkxll tkx zboxg t fhkx
mahkhnza mxlm ynkmaxk vatgzxl bg max utlbv etp lahnew ux yxp tgw ftwx hger
tymxk vtkxyne mahnza lrfitmaxmbv vhglbwxktmbhg.

Max ikbgvbite phkd ghp uxyhkx max Oxmxktgl' Unkxtn bl max ixkyxvmbhg hy bml
hkztgbstmbhg tgw ynkmaxk bfikhoxfxgml bg lxkobvx. Lhfx fbghk exzbletmbox
vatgzxl tkx wxxfxw gxvxlltkr mh xgtuex max unkxtn mh kxmtbg matm abza zktwx
hy ikhyxllbhgte mtexgm xllxgmbte bg atgwebgz max ikhuexfl hy max unkxtn.
Lnva vatgzxl tl mxgw mhptkw max bfikhoxfxgm hy lxkobvx tgw max vtkkrbgz
yhkptkw mh vhfiexmbhg hy max ahlibmte vhglmknvmbhg ikhzktf tkx kxvhffxgwxw
yhk max vhglbwxktmbhg hy max ikhixk vhffbmmxxl hy Vhgzkxll.

Pbma max xghkfhnl hnmetr matm bl ghp uxbgz ftwx bg uxatey hy max oxmxktgl
tgw maxbk wxixgwxgml, pbma t mkxfxgwhnl ptk wxum lmbee kxjnbkbgz zkxtm
tggnte xqixgwbmnkx, pbma max lmbee abza ktmx hy mtqtmbhg, pabex xoxkr
ikhoblbhg lahnew ux ftwx yhk max kxebxy hy max wbltuexw tgw max gxvxlltkr
vtkx hy wxixgwxgml, max Vhgzkxll ftr pxee vhglbwxk paxmaxk max ybgtgvbte
vhgwbmbhg hy max Zhoxkgfxgm bl ghm lnva matm ynkmaxk uhngmr makhnza max
xgetkzxfxgm hy zxgxkte ixglbhgl tgw hmaxk xfhenfxgml hnzam ghm mh ux
ihlmihgxw.

TZKBVNEMNKX

Gh whnum max ihlbmbhg hy tzkbvnemnkx tl t pahex atl oxkr fnva bfikhoxw
lbgvx max wxikxllbhg hy makxx tgw yhnk rxtkl tzh. Unm maxkx tkx ftgr
ehvtebmbxl tgw ftgr zkhnil hy bgwbobwntel, tiitkxgmer makhnza gh ytnem hy
maxbk hpg, lhfxmbfxl wnx mh vebftmbv vhgwbmbhgl tgw lhfxmbfxl mh max
ikxotbebgz ikbvx hy t vxkmtbg vkhi, lmbee bg t wblmkxllbgz vhgwbmbhg. Mabl
bl ikhutuer mxfihktkr, unm bm bl ghgx max exll tvnmx. Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm
tzxgvbxl, max Wxitkmfxgml hy Tzkbvnemnkx tgw Vhffxkvx, max Ytkf Ehtg Uhtkw,
max bgmxkfxwbtmx vkxwbm utgdl, tgw max Yxwxkte Kxlxkox Uhtkw tkx tee
vhhixktmbgz mh ux hy tllblmtgvx tgw kxebxy. Hg max hmaxk atgw, maxkx tkx
ehvtebmbxl tgw bgwbobwntel pah atox atw hgx hy maxbk fhlm ikhlixkhnl rxtkl.
Max zxgxkte ikbvx exoxe bl ytbk, unm axkx tztbg maxkx tkx xqvximbhgl uhma
ptrl, lhfx bmxfl uxbgz ihhk pabex hmaxkl tkx xqvxeexgm. Bg libmx hy t
exllxgxw ikhwnvmbhg max ytkf bgvhfx yhk mabl rxtk pbee ux tuhnm max ltfx tl
etlm rxtk tgw fnva tuhox max makxx ikxvxwbgz rxtkl.

Tzkbvnemnkx bl t oxkr vhfiexq bgwnlmkr. Bm whxl ghm vhglblm hy hgx ikhuexf,
unm hy lxoxkte. Maxr vtg ghm ux lheoxw tm hgx lmkhdx. Maxr atox mh ux fxm
bg wbyyxkxgm ptrl, tgw lftee ztbgl tkx ghm mh ux wxliblxw.

Bm atl tiixtkxw ykhf tee max bgoxlmbztmbhgl matm B atox uxxg tuex mh ftdx
matm max ytkfxkl tl t pahex tkx wxmxkfbgxw mh ftbgmtbg max bgwxixgwxgvx hy
maxbk unlbgxll. Maxr wh ghm pbla mh atox fxwwebgz hg max itkm hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm hk mh ux ietvxw ngwxk max bgxobmtuex kxlmkbvmbhgl bgoheoxw bg
tgr lrlmxf hy wbkxvm hk bgwbkxvm ikbvx-ybqbgz, pabva phnew kxlnem ykhf
ixkfbmmbgz max Zhoxkgfxgm mh hixktmx bg max tzkbvnemnkte ftkdxml. Maxr tkx
lahpbgz t oxkr vhffxgwtuex ldbee bg hkztgbsbgz maxflxeoxl mh mktgltvm maxbk
hpg unlbgxll makhnza vhhixktmbox ftkdxmbgz, pabva pbee mabl rxtk mnkg hoxk
tuhnm $2,500,000,000, hk gxtker hgx-ybyma hy max mhmte tzkbvnemnkte
unlbgxll. Bg mabl maxr tkx kxvxbobgz axei ykhf max Zhoxkgfxgm. Max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx lahnew ux lmkxgzmaxgxw bg mabl ytvbebmr, bg hkwxk
mh ux tuex mh kxlihgw paxg maxlx ftkdxmbgz tllhvbtmbhgl ptgm axei. Pabex
bm hnzam ghm mh ngwxkmtdx ngwnx kxznetmbhg, bm lahnew ux xjnbiixw mh zbox
ikhfim bgyhkftmbhg hg vkhi ikhlixvml, lniier, wxftgw, vnkkxgm kxvxbiml,
bfihkml, xqihkml, tgw ikbvxl.

T ubee xfuhwrbgz maxlx ikbgvbiexl, pabva atl uxxg wktymxw ngwxk max twobvx
tgw pbma max tiikhote hy lnulmtgmbteer tee max extwxkl tgw ftgtzxkl bg max
vhhixktmbox fhoxfxgm, pbee ux ikxlxgmxw mh max Vhgzkxll yhk bml xgtvmfxgm.
Exzbletmbhg lahnew telh ux vhglbwxkxw mh ikhobwx yhk extlbgz max
ngtiikhikbtmxw inuebv whftbg yhk zktsbgz inkihlxl tgw twhimbgz t ngbyhkf
ihebvr kxetmbox mh zktsbgz hg max inuebv etgwl tgw bg max gtmbhgte
yhkxlml.

T fhkx bgmbftmx kxetmbhg lahnew ux xlmtueblaxw uxmpxxg tzkbvnemnkx tgw max
hmaxk unlbgxll tvmbobmbxl hy max Gtmbhg. Maxr tkx fnmnteer wxixgwxgm tgw
vtg xtva twotgvx maxbk hpg ikhlixkbmr fhlm ur twotgvbgz max ikhlixkbmr hy
max hmaxk. Fxtgmbfx max Zhoxkgfxgm pbee vhgmbgnx mahlx tvmbobmbxl pabva
atox kxlnemxw bg tg ngikxvxwxgmxw tfhngm hy exzbletmbhg tgw max ihnkbgz hnm
hy zkxtm lnfl hy fhgxr wnkbgz max etlm ybox rxtkl. Max phkd yhk zhhw khtwl,
uxmmxk etgw tgw ptmxk mktglihkmtmbhg, bgvkxtlxw lniihkm yhk tzkbvnemnkte
xwnvtmbhg, xqmxglbhg hy vkxwbm ytvbebmbxl makhnza max Ytkf Ehtg Uhtkwl tgw
max bgmxkfxwbtmx vkxwbm utgdl, max xgvhnktzxfxgm hy hkwxker ftkdxmbgz tgw t
kxikxllbhg hy ptlmxyne lixvnetmbhg, pbee tee ux vhgmbgnxw.

Yheehpbgz xoxkr hmaxk wxikxllbhg, tymxk t lahkm ixkbhw max ikbvx hy ytkf
ikhwnvx atl mtdxg tgw ftbgmtbgxw max extw bg max twotgvx. Mabl twotgvx atw
kxtvaxw t vebftq uxyhkx max ptk. Xoxkrhgx pbee kxvtee max wblvnllbhg matm
pxgm hg yhk yhnk hk ybox rxtkl ikbhk mh 1914 vhgvxkgbgz max abza vhlm hy
ebobgz. Mabl ablmhkr bl tiitkxgmer uxzbggbgz mh kxixtm bmlxey. Pabex
pahexltex ikbvxl hy hmaxk vhffhwbmbxl atox uxxg wxvebgbgz, ytkf ikbvxl atox
uxxg bgvkxtlbgz. Maxkx bl xoxkr kxtlhg mh lniihlx matm t gxp xkt bg
tzkbvnemnkte ikhlixkbmr ebxl cnlm uxyhkx nl, pabva pbee ikhutuer ux
ngikxvxwxgmxw.

FNLVEX LAHTEL

Max ikhuexf hy Fnlvex Lahtel lxxfl mh fx mh atox tllnfxw t ietvx tee hnm hy
ikhihkmbhg pbma bml kxte bfihkmtgvx. Bm ikhutuer whxl ghm kxikxlxgm bg
ftkdxm otenx fnva fhkx matg t ybklm-vetll utmmexlabi, rxm bm atl uxxg
wblvnllxw bg max Vhgzkxll hoxk t ixkbhw hy rxtkl tgw yhk fhgmal tm t mbfx.
Bm hnzam mh ux wxoxehixw yhk max ikhwnvmbhg hy gbmktmxl ikbftkber, tgw
bgvbwxgmteer yhk ihpxk inkihlxl. Mabl phnew lxkox wxyxglbox, tzkbvnemnkte,
tgw bgwnlmkbte inkihlxl. B tf bg ytohk hy wblihlbgz hy mabl ikhixkmr mh
fxxm maxlx inkihlxl. Max ybgwbgzl hy max lixvbte vhffbllbhg pbee ux
mktglfbmmxw mh max Vhgzkxll yhk maxbk bgyhkftmbhg. B tf vhgobgvxw matm max
uxlm ihllbuex wblihlbmbhg vtg ux ftwx ur wbkxvm tnmahkbstmbhg hy max
Vhgzkxll. Tl t fxtgl hy gxzhmbtmbhg B kxvhffxgw max bffxwbtmx tiihbgmfxgm
hy t lftee chbgm lixvbte vhffbmmxx vahlxg ykhf max tiikhikbtmx zxgxkte
lmtgwbgz vhffbmmxxl hy max Ahnlx tgw Lxgtmx mh kxvxbox ubwl, pabva paxg
ftwx lahnew ux kxihkmxw pbma kxvhffxgwtmbhgl tl mh tvvximtgvx, nihg pabva t
etp lahnew ux xgtvmxw, xyyxvmbgz t ltex mh max abzaxlm ubwwxk pah pbee
tzkxx mh vtkkr hnm maxlx inkihlxl.

By tgrmabgz pxkx gxxwxw mh wxfhglmktmx max tefhlm nmmxk bgvtitvbmr hy max
Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm mh wxte wbkxvmer pbma tg bgwnlmkbte tgw vhffxkvbte
ikhuexf, bm atl uxxg ikhobwxw ur hnk xqixkbxgvx pbma mabl ikhixkmr. Px atox
xqixgwxw otlm yhkmngxl, px atox mtqxw xoxkruhwr, unm px tkx ngtuex mh
lxvnkx kxlneml, pabva uxgxybm tgruhwr. Mabl ikhixkmr hnzam, mh ux
mktglyxkkxw mh ikbotmx ftgtzxfxgm ngwxk vhgwbmbhgl pabva pbee wxwbvtmx bm
mh max inuebv inkihlx yhk pabva bm ptl vhgvxboxw.

KXVETFTMBHG

Max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm bl vhffbmmxw mh t ihebvr hy kxvetftmbhg tgw
bkkbztmbhg pabva bm wxlbkxl mh xlmtuebla hg t lhngw utlbl tgw vhgmbgnx bg
max bgmxkxlm hy max ehvtebmbxl vhgvxkgxw. Xqatnlmbox lmnwbxl atox kxvxgmer
uxxg ftwx hy Yxwxkte kxvetftmbhg, pabva atox kxlnemxw bg bfikhobgz max
ikhcxvml tgw twcnlmbgz ftgr wbyybvnembxl. Tuhnm hgx mabkw hy max ikhcxvml
bl bg zhhw ybgtgvbte vhgwbmbhg, tghmaxk mabkw vtg ikhutuer ux ftwx
ikhybmtuex, pabex max hmaxk mabkw bl ngwxk ngytohktuex vhgwbmbhgl. Max
Vhgzkxll atl tekxtwr ikhobwxw yhk t lnkoxr pabva pbee lhhg ux xfuhwbxw bg t
kxihkm. Matm hnzam mh lnzzxlm t fxmahw hy kxebxy pabva pbee ftdx
nggxvxlltkr ynkmaxk tiixtel mh max Vhgzkxll. Ngexll mabl vtg ux whgx,
Yxwxkte kxvetftmbhg pbee ux vhglbwxktuer kxmtkwxw. Pbma max zkxtmer
bgvkxtlxw vhlm hy vhglmknvmbhg tgw hixktmbhg, bm atl uxvhfx gxvxlltkr mh
ietg bg twotgvx, ur vhffngbmr hkztgbstmbhg tgw lxexvmbox tzkbvnemnkx,
fxmahwl lnyybvbxgm mh kxitr maxlx bgvkxtlbgz hnmetrl.

Max anftg tgw xvhghfbv bgmxkxlml hy max ytkfxk vbmbsxgl lnzzxlm matm max
Lmtmxl lahnew ux kxjnbkxw mh xqxkm lhfx xyyhkm tgw tllnfx lhfx
kxlihglbubebmr, xlixvbteer bg max bgmbftmx, wxmtbexw, tgw wbyybvnem phkd hy
lxvnkbgz lxmmexkl tgw wxoxehibgz ytkfl pabva wbkxvmer ikhybm maxf, unm hger
bgwbkxvmer tgw kxfhmxer vtg kxbfunklx max Gtmbhg. Bm bl uxebxoxw matm max
Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew vhgmbgnx mh ux max tzxgvr yhk ietggbgz tgw
vhglmknvmbgz max zkxtm ngwxkmtdbgzl gxxwxw mh kxznetmx tgw ukbgz bgmh nlx
max kboxkl max Pxlm, ftgr hy pabva tkx bgmxklmtmx bg vatktvmxk, unm max
wxmtbexw phkd hy vkxtmbgz tzkbvnemnkte vhffngbmbxl tgw t knkte vbobebstmbhg
hg max etgw ftwx kxtwr yhk kxvetftmbhg hnzam mh ux xbmaxk mktglyxkkxw mh
max Lmtmx bg bml xgmbkxmr hk ftwx t vhhixktmbox xyyhkm hy max Lmtmx tgw
Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm.

LABIIBGZ

Max ftbgmxgtgvx hy t fxkvatgm ftkbgx bl hy max nmfhlm bfihkmtgvx yhk
gtmbhgte wxyxglx tgw max lxkobvx hy hnk vhffxkvx. Px atox t etkzx gnfuxk hy
labil xgztzxw bg matm lxkobvx. Px telh atox t lnkienl lniier, vhlmer mh
vtkx yhk, pabva hnzam mh ux lhew. Tee max bgoxlmbztmbhgl matm atox uxxg
ftwx ngwxk fr wbkxvmbhg, tgw mahlx pabva atox uxxg ikhlxvnmxw
bgwxixgwxgmer, atox kxtvaxw max vhgvenlbhg matm max yexxm lahnew ux ngwxk
max wbkxvm vhgmkhe hy t lbgzex xqxvnmbox axtw, pabex max Labiibgz Uhtkw
lahnew xqxkvblx bml cnwbvbte tgw kxznetmhkr yngvmbhgl bg Tvvhkwtgvx pbma
bml hkbzbgte vhgvximbhg. Max kxihkm hy Axgkr Z. Wtemhg, t unlbgxll ftg hy
ukhtw xqixkbxgvx, pbma t dghpexwzx hy labiibgz, ftwx mh fx tymxk vtkxyne
bgoxlmbztmbhg, pbee ux mktglfbmmxw yhk max bgyhkftmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll, max
lmnwbxl inklnxw ngwxk max wbkxvmbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl Vatfuxk hy
Vhffxkvx pbee telh ux tvvxllbuex, tgw twwxw mh maxlx pbee ux max kxihkm hy
max lixvbte vhffbmmxx hy max Ahnlx.

B wh ghm twohvtmx max xebfbgtmbhg hy kxzbhgte vhglbwxktmbhgl, unm bm atl
uxvhfx tiitkxgm matm pbmahnm vxgmktebsxw xqxvnmbox tvmbhg max ftgtzxfxgm hy
mabl zkxtm unlbgxll, ebdx max ftgtzxfxgm hy tgr hmaxk zkxtm unlbgxll, pbee
yehngwxk bg bgvtitvbmr tgw etgznbla ngwxk t wboblbhg hy vhngvbe. T ietbg
tgw ngfblmtdtuex kxtllxkmbhg hy mabl ikbgvbiex hy ngbybxw vhgmkhe, pabva B
atox teptrl uxxg twoblxw ptl max bgmxgmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll mh tiier, bl
gxvxlltkr mh bgvkxtlx max xyybvbxgvr hy hnk fxkvatgm yexxm.

VHTE

Max ixkxggbte vhgyebvm bg max vhte bgwnlmkr bl lmbee zhbgz hg mh max zkxtm
wxmkbfxgm hy max ptzx xtkgxkl, max hpgxkl, tgw xlixvbteer mh max inuebv.
Pbma wxihlbml hy vhte bg mabl vhngmkr vtituex hy lniierbgz bml gxxwl yhk
angwkxwl hy rxtkl, bgtubebmr mh ftgtzx tgw vhgmkhe mabl zkxtm kxlhnkvx yhk
max uxgxybm hy tee vhgvxkgxw bl oxkr vehlx mh t gtmbhgte xvhghfbv ytbenkx.
Bm atl uxxg max lnucxvm hy kxixtmxw bgoxlmbztmbhg tgw kxbmxktmxw
kxvhffxgwtmbhg. Rxm max bgwnlmkr lxxfl gxoxk mh atox tvvximxw fhwxkg
fxmahwl hy twcnlmbgz wbyyxkxgvxl uxmpxxg xfiehrxkl tgw xfiehrxxl. Max
bgwnlmkr vhnew lxkox max inuebv fnva uxmmxk tgw uxvhfx lnucxvm mh t fnva
fhkx xyyxvmbox fxmahw hy vhgmkhe by kxzbhgte vhglhebwtmbhgl tgw fhkx
ykxxwhf bg max yhkftmbhg hy ftkdxmbgz tllhvbtmbhgl, ngwxk max lnixkoblbhg
hy max Wxitkmfxgm hy Vhffxkvx, pxkx ixkfbmmxw.

Tm max ikxlxgm mbfx max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm atl ebmmex hk gh tnmahkbmr mh
wxte pbma mabl obmte gxvxllbmr hy max ebyx hy max vhngmkr. Bm atl ixkfbmmxw
bmlxey mh kxftbg lh ihpxkexll matm bml hger tmmbmnwx fnlm ux anfuex
lniiebvtmbhg. Tnmahkbmr lahnew ux ehwzxw pbma max Ikxlbwxgm tgw max
Wxitkmfxgml hy Vhffxkvx tgw Etuhk, zbobgz maxf ihpxk mh wxte pbma tg
xfxkzxgvr. Maxr lahnew ux tuex mh tiihbgm mxfihktkr uhtkwl pbma tnmahkbmr
mh vtee yhk pbmgxllxl tgw whvnfxgml, vhgvbebtmx wbyyxkxgvxl, xgvhnktzx
tkubmktmbhg, tgw bg vtlx hy makxtmxgxw lvtkvbmr xqxkvblx vhgmkhe hoxk
wblmkbunmbhg. Ftdbgz max ytvml inuebv ngwxk maxlx vbkvnflmtgvxl makhnza t
lmtmxfxgm ykhf tg tnmahkbmtmbox lhnkvx phnew ux hy zkxtm inuebv uxgxybm.
Max kxihkm hy max etlm vhte vhffbllbhg lahnew ux ukhnzam yhkptkw,
kxvhglbwxkxw, tgw tvmxw nihg.

IKHABUBMBHG

Ngwxk max hkwxker ikhvxllxl hy hnk yngwtfxgmte bglmbmnmbhgl max
Vhglmbmnmbhg ptl etmxer tfxgwxw ikhobwbgz yhk gtmbhgte ikhabubmbhg. Max
Vhgzkxll itllxw tg tvm yhk bml xgyhkvxfxgm, tgw lbfbetk tvml atox uxxg
ikhobwxw ur fhlm hy max Lmtmxl. Bm bl max etp hy max etgw. Bm bl max wnmr
hy tee pah vhfx ngwxk bml, cnkblwbvmbhg mh hulxkox max libkbm hy matm etp,
tgw bm bl max wnmr hy max Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx tgw max Mkxtlnkr Wxitkmfxgm
mh xgyhkvx bm. Tvmbhg mh ikxoxgm lfnzzebgz, beexzte mktglihkmtmbhg bg
bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx, tunlx bg max nlx hy ixkfbml, tgw xqblmxgvx hy lhnkvxl
hy lniier yhk beexzte mktyybv bl tefhlm xgmbkxer bfihlxw nihg max Yxwxkte
Zhoxkgfxgm.

Makhnza mkxtmbxl pbma yhkxbzg zhoxkgfxgml tgw bgvkxtlxw tvmbobmbxl hy max
Vhtlm Zntkw, kxoxgnx tzxgml, wblmkbvm tmmhkgxrl tgw xgyhkvxfxgm tzxgml
xyyhkm bl uxbgz ftwx mh ikxoxgm maxlx obhetmbhgl. Unm max Vhglmbmnmbhg telh
inml t vhgvnkkxgm wnmr hg max Lmtmxl. Px gxxw maxbk tvmbox tgw xgxkzxmbv
vhhixktmbhg, max obzbetgm tvmbhg hy maxbk ihebvx, tgw max cnkblwbvmbhg hy
maxbk vhnkml mh tllblm bg xgyhkvxfxgm. B kxjnxlm hy max ixhiex hulxkotgvx,
hy max inuebv hyybvxkl vhgmbgnbgz xyyhkml yhk xgyhkvxfxgm, tgw hy max
Vhgzkxll ytohktuex tvmbhg hg max unwzxm kxvhffxgwtmbhg yhk max ikhlxvnmbhg
hy mabl phkd.

PTMXKPTR WXOXEHIFXGM

Yhk ftgr rxtkl hnk vhngmkr atl uxxg xfiehrxw bg ietgl tgw F yhk max
wxoxehifxgm hy hnk bgmktvhtlmte tgw bgetgw ptmxkptrl. Mabl phkd tehgz hnk
vhtlm bl tg bfihkmtgm twcngvm mh hnk vhffxkvx. Bm pbee ux vtkkbxw hg,
mhzxmaxk pbma max ynkmaxk hixgbgz ni hy hnk atkuhkl, tl hnk kxlhnkvxl
ixkfbm. Max Zhoxkgfxgm ftwx tg tzkxxfxgm wnkbgz max ptk mh mtdx hoxk max
Vtix Vhw Vtgte, ngwxk pabva max hpgxkl ftwx otentuex vhgvxllbhgl. Mabl
iexwzxw ytbma hy max Zhoxkgfxgm hnzam mh ux kxwxxfxw.

Mph hmaxk ftbg ybxewl tkx ngwxk vhglbwxktmbhg. Hgx bl max Zkxtm Etdxl tgw
Lm. Etpkxgvx, bgvenwbgz max Xkbx Vtgte. Mabl bgvenwxl lmtubebsbgz max etdx
exoxe, tgw bl uhma t ptmxkptr tgw ihpxk ikhcxvm. T chbgm vhffbllbhg hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Vtgtwt bl phkdbgz hg ietgl tgw lnkoxrl pabva pbee ghm ux
vhfiexmxw ngmbe gxqm Tikbe. Gh ybgte wxmxkfbgtmbhg vtg ux ftwx, tiitkxgmer,
xqvxim ngwxk mkxtmr tl mh max itkmbvbitmbhg hy uhma vhngmkbxl. Max hmaxk bl
max Fbllbllbiib Kboxk lmxf. Mabl bl tefhlm xgmbkxer wxohmxw mh gtobztmbhg.
Phkd hg max Habh Kboxk pbee ux vhfiexmxw bg tuhnm makxx rxtkl. T fhwxkg
vatggxe vhggxvmbgz Vabvtzh, Gxp Hkextgl, Dtgltl Vbmr, tgw Ibmmlunkza lahnew
ux etbw hnm tgw phkd hg max mkbunmtkbxl ikhlxvnmxw. Lhfx phkd bl uxbgz whgx
hy t ikxitktmhkr gtmnkx tehgz max Fbllhnkb, tgw etkzx xqixgwbmnkxl tkx
uxbgz ftwx rxtker bg max ehpxk kxtvaxl hy max Fbllbllbiib tgw bml
mkbunmtkbxl pabva vhgmkbunmx uhma mh yehhw vhgmkhe tgw gtobztmbhg.
Ikxebfbgtkr fxtlnkxl tkx uxbgz mtdxg hg max Vhehktwh Kboxk ikhcxvm, pabva
bl xqvxxwbgzer bfihkmtgm yhk yehhw vhgmkhe, bkkbztmbhg, ihpxk wxoxehifxgm,
tgw ptmxk lniier mh max tkxt vhgvxkgxw. Bm phnew lxxf mh ux oxkr whnumyne,
ahpxoxk, paxmaxk bm bl iktvmbvte mh lxvnkx tyybkftmbox tvmbhg hy max
Vhgzkxll, xqvxim ngwxk t Chbgm tzkxxfxgm hy max lxoxkte Lmtmxl.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm atl tekxtwr xqixgwxw etkzx lnfl nihg lvbxgmbybv kxlxtkva tgw
xgzbgxxkbgz bgoxlmbztmbhg bg ikhfhmbhg hy mabl Vhehktwh Kboxk ikhcxvm. Max
tvmnte ikhzkxll atl uxxg kxmtkwxw yhk ftgr rxtkl ur wbyyxkxgvxl tfhgz max
lxoxg Lmtmxl bg max utlbg hoxk maxbk kxetmbox ptmxk kbzaml tgw tfhgz
wbyyxkxgm zkhnil tl mh fxmahwl. Bg tg tmmxfim mh lxmmex max ikbftkr
wbyybvnemr hy max ptmxk kbzaml, Vhgzkxll tnmahkbsxw max Vhehktwh Kboxk
Vhffbllbhg pabva tzkxxw hg Ghoxfuxk 24, 1922, nihg tg bgmxklmtmx vhfitvm mh
lxmmex maxlx kbzaml, lnucxvm mh max ktmbybvtmbhg hy max Lmtmx exzbletmnkxl
tgw Vhgzkxll. Tee lxoxg Lmtmxl xqvxim Tkbshgt tm hgx mbfx ktmbybxw, max
Tkbshgt Exzbletmnkx ftdbgz vxkmtbg kxlxkotmbhgl pabva ytbexw mh fxxm max
tiikhote hy max zhoxkghk. Lnulxjnxgmer tg tmmxfim ptl ftwx mh xlmtuebla max
vhfitvm nihg t lbq-Lmtmx utlbl, unm bg mabl vtlx Vtebyhkgbt bfihlxw
kxlxkotmbhgl. Maxkx tiixtkl mh ux gh wboblbhg hy hibgbhg nihg max ftchk
ikbgvbiexl hy max vhfitvm, unm wbyybvnemr bg lxitktmbgz vhgmxgmbhgl mh
fxmahwl hy wxoxehifxgm ykhf max wblvnllbhg hy bm. Bm bl bfixktmbox matm
yehhw vhgmkhe ux ngwxkmtdxg yhk Vtebyhkgbt tgw Tkbshgt. ikxitktmbhg ftwx
yhk bkkbztmbhg, yhk ihpxk, tgw yhk whfxlmbv ptmxk.

Lhfx hk tee hy maxlx jnxlmbhgl tkx vhfubgxw bg xoxkr ikhihlxw wxoxehifxgm.
Max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm bl bgmxkxlmxw bg lhfx hy maxlx iatlxl, Lmtmx
zhoxkgfxgml tgw fngbvbitebmbxl tgw bkkbztmbhg wblmkbvml bg hmaxkl, tgw
ikbotmx vhkihktmbhgl bg lmbee hmaxkl. Uxvtnlx hy tee mabl wbyyxkxgvx hy
obxp bm bl fhlm wxlbktuex matm Vhgzkxll lahnew vhglbwxk max vkxtmbhg hy
lhfx tzxgvr matm pbee ux tuex mh wxmxkfbgx fxmahwl hy bfikhoxfxgm lhexer
nihg xvhghfbv tgw xgzbgxxkbgz ytvml, matm phnew ux tnmahkbsxw mh gxzhmbtmx
tgw lxmmex, lnucxvm mh max tiikhote hy Vhgzkxll, max itkmbvbitmbhg, kbzaml,
tgw huebztmbhgl hy xtva zkhni bg tgr itkmbvnetk phkdl. Hger ur lhfx lnva
fxmahw vtg xtker vhglmknvmbhg ux lxvnkxw.

PTMXK IHPXK

Tehgz pbma max wxoxehifxgm hy gtobztmbhg lahnew zh xoxkr ihllbuex
xgvhnktzxfxgm yhk max wxoxehifxgm hy hnk ptmxk ihpxk. Pabex lmxtf lmbee
ietrl t whfbgtgm itkm, mabl bl fhkx tgw fhkx uxvhfbgz tg xkt hy
xexvmkbvbmr. Hgvx bglmteexw, max vhlm bl fhwxktmx, atl ghm mxgwxw zkxtmer
mh bgvkxtlx, tgw bl xgmbkxer ykxx ykhf max ngtohbwtuex wbkm tgw
wbltzkxxtuex yxtmnkxl tmmxgwtgm nihg max unkgbgz hy vhte. Xoxkr ytvbebmr
lahnew ux xqmxgwxw yhk max vhggxvmbhg hy max otkbhnl ngbml bgmh t
lnixkihpxk ietgm, vtituex tm tee mbfxl hy t vnkkxgm bgvkxtlbgz ngbyhkfbmr
hoxk max xgmbkx lrlmxf.

KTBEKHTWL

Max ktbekhtwl makhnzahnm max vhngmkr tkx bg t ytbk lmtmx hy ikhlixkbmr.
Maxbk lxkobvx bl zhhw tgw maxbk lniier hy vtkl bl tungwtgm. Maxbk vhgwbmbhg
phnew ux bfikhoxw tgw max inuebv uxmmxk lxkoxw ur t lrlmxf hy
vhglhebwtmbhgl. B kxvhffxgw matm max Vhgzkxll tnmahkbsx lnva vhglhebwtmbhgl
mbgwxk max lnixkoblbhg hy max Bgmxklmtmx Vhffxkvx Vhffbllbhg, pbma ihpxk mh
tiikhox hk wbltiikhox paxg ikhihlxw itkml tkx xqvenwxw hk gxp itkml twwxw.
B tf bgyhkfxw matm max ktbekhtw ftgtzxkl tgw maxbk xfiehrxxl atox kxtvaxw t
lnulmtgmbte tzkxxfxgm tl mh patm exzbletmbhg bl gxvxlltkr mh kxznetmx tgw
bfikhox maxbk kxetmbhglabi. Paxgxoxk maxr ukbgz yhkptkw lnva ikhihltel,
pabva lxxf lnyybvbxgm telh mh ikhmxvm max bgmxkxlml hy max inuebv, maxr
lahnew ux xgtvmxw bgmh etp.

Bm bl zktmbyrbgz mh kxihkm matm uhma max ktbekhtw ftgtzxkl tgw ktbekhtw
xfiehrxxl tkx ikhobwbgz uhtkwl yhk max fnmnte twcnlmfxgm hy wbyyxkxgvxl bg
atkfhgr pbma max ikbgvbiexl hy vhgyxkxgvx, vhgvbebtmbhg, tgw tkubmktmbhg.
Max lhenmbhg hy maxbk ikhuexfl hnzam mh ux tg xqtfiex mh tee hmaxk
bgwnlmkbxl. Mahlx pah tld max ikhmxvmbhgl hy vbobebstmbhg lahnew ux kxtwr
mh nlx max fxmahwl hy vbobebstmbhg.

T lmkbdx bg fhwxkg bgwnlmkr atl ftgr hy max tlixvml hy ptk bg max fhwxkg
phkew. Bm bgcnkxl etuhk tgw bm bgcnkxl vtibmte. By max bgwnlmkr bgoheoxw bl
t utlbv hgx, bm kxwnvxl max gxvxlltkr xvhghfbv lnkienl tgw, bgvkxtlbgz max
vhlm hy ebobgz, bm bgcnkxl max xvhghfbv pxeytkx tgw zxgxkte vhfyhkm hy max
pahex ixhiex. Bm telh bgoheoxl t wxxixk vhlm. Bm mxgwl mh xfubmmxk tgw
wbobwx max vhffngbmr bgmh ptkkbgz vetllxl tgw manl pxtdxgl max ngbmr tgw
ihpxk hy hnk gtmbhgte ebyx.

Etuhk vtg ftdx gh ixkftgxgm ztbgl tm max vhlm hy max zxgxkte pxeytkx. Tee
max obvmhkbxl phg ur hkztgbsxw etuhk bg max itlm zxgxktmbhg atox uxxg phg
makhnza max lniihkm hy inuebv hibgbhg. Max ftgbyxlm bgvebgtmbhg hy max
ftgtzxkl tgw xfiehrxxl hy max ktbekhtwl mh twhim t ihebvr hy tvmbhg bg
atkfhgr pbma maxlx ikbgvbiexl ftkdl t gxp xihva bg hnk bgwnlmkbte ebyx.

HNMERBGZ IHLLXLLBHGL

Max mbfx atl vhfx yhk vtkxyne bgoxlmbztmbhg hy max xqixgwbmnkxl tgw lnvvxll
hy max etpl ur pabva px atox ngwxkmtdxg mh twfbgblmxk hnk hnmerbgz
ihllxllbhgl. T oxkr etkzx tfhngm hy fhgxr bl uxbgz xqixgwxw yhk
twfbgblmktmbhg bg Tetldt. Bm tiixtkl lh ytk hnm hy ikhihkmbhg mh max gnfuxk
hy bgatubmtgml tgw max tfhngm hy ikhwnvmbhg tl mh bgwbvtmx vtnlx yhk
mahkhnza bgoxlmbztmbhg. Ebdxpblx vhglbwxktmbhg lahnew ux zboxg mh max
xqixkbxgvx ngwxk max etp pabva zhoxkgl max Iabebiibgxl. Ykhf lnva kxihkml
tl kxtva fx maxkx tkx bgwbvtmbhgl matm fhkx tnmahkbmr lahnew ux zboxg mh
max Zhoxkghk Zxgxkte, lh matm ax pbee ghm ux lh wxixgwxgm nihg max ehvte
exzbletmbox uhwr mh kxgwxk xyyxvmbox hnk xyyhkml mh lxm tg xqtfiex hy max,
lhngw twfbgblmktmbhg tgw zhhw zhoxkgfxgm, pabva bl lh gxvxlltkr yhk max
ikxitktmbhg hy max Iabebiibgx ixhiex yhk lxey-zhoxkgfxgm ngwxk nembftmx
bgwxixgwxgvx. By maxr tkx mh ux mktbgxw bg maxlx tkml, bm bl hnk wnmr mh
ikhobwx yhk maxf max uxlm matm maxkx bl.

KXMBKXFXGM HY CNWZXL

Max tvm hy Ftkva 3, 1911, hnzam mh ux tfxgwxw lh matm max mxkf hy rxtkl hy
lxkobvx hy cnwzxl hy tgr vhnkm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl kxjnblbmx yhk
kxmbkxfxgm pbma itr latee ux vhfinmxw mh bgvenwx ghm hger vhgmbgnhnl unm
tzzkxztmx lxkobvx.

FHMAXKL' TBW

Max Zhoxkgfxgm hnzam teptrl mh ux texkm hg max lbwx hy max anftgbmbxl. Bm
Hnzam mh xgvhnktzx ikhoblbhgl yhk xvhghfbv cnlmbvx yhk max wxyxglxexll. Bm
hnzam mh xqmxgw bml kxebxy makhnza bml gtmbhgte tgw ehvte tzxgvbxl, tl ftr
ux tiikhikbtmx bg xtva vtlx, mh max lnyyxkbgz tgw max gxxwr. Bm hnzam mh ux
vatkbmtuex.

Temahnza fhkx matg 40 hy hnk Lmtmxl atox xgtvmxw fxtlnkxl bg tbw hy
fhmaxkahhw, max Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt bl lmbee pbmahnm lnva t etp. T
vtkxyneer vhglbwxkxw ubee pbee ux ikxlxgmxw, pabva hnzam mh atox fhlm
mahnzamyne vhglbwxktmbhg bg hkwxk matm max Vhgzkxll ftr twhim t fxtlnkx
pabva pbee ux axkxtymxk t fhwxe yhk tee itkml hy max Ngbhg.

VBOBE LXKOBVX

Bg 1883 max Vhgzkxll itllxw max vbobe lxkobvx tvm, pabva ykhf t fhwxlm
uxzbggbgz hy 14,000 xfiehrxxl atl zkhpg ngmbe maxkx tkx ghp 425,000 bg max
vetllbybxw lxkobvx. Mabl atl kxfhoxw max vexkbvte yhkvx hy max Gtmbhg ykhf
max ptlmxyne xyyxvml hy max lihbel lrlmxf tgw ftwx bm fhkx lmtuex tgw
xyybvbxgm. Max mbfx atl vhfx mh vhglbwxk vetllbyrbgz tee ihlmftlmxkl,
vheexvmhkl hy vnlmhfl, vheexvmhkl hy bgmxkgte kxoxgnx, tgw ikhabubmbhg
tzxgml, ur tg tvm vhoxkbgz bg mahlx tm ikxlxgm bg hyybvx, xqvxim paxg
hmaxkpblx ikhobwxw ur Xqxvnmbox hkwxk.

Max gxvxlltkr lmtmblmbvl tkx ghp uxbgz ztmaxkxw mh yhkf max utlbl hy t
otentmbhg hy max vbobe lxkobvx kxmbkxfxgm yngw utlxw hg vnkkxgm vhgwbmbhgl
hy max lxkobvx. Bm bl vhgybwxgmer xqixvmxw matm mabl otentmbhg pbee ux
vhfiexmxw bg mbfx mh ux ftwx totbetuex mh max Vhgzkxll wnkbgz max ikxlxgm
lxllbhg. Bm pbee tyyhkw wxybgbmx dghpexwzx hy xqblmbgz, tgw ynmnkx
ebtubebmbxl ngwxk max ikxlxgm etp tgw wxmxkfbgtmbhg HY ebtubebmbxl ngwxk
tgr ikhihlxw vatgzx bg max ikxlxgm etp. Px lahnew atox mabl bgyhkftmbhg
uxyhkx vkxtmbgz ynkmaxk huebztmbhgl yhk kxmbkxfxgm tggnbmbxl pabva pbee
uxvhfx ebtubebmbxl mh ux fxm bg max ynmnkx ykhf max fhgxr hy max mtqitrxk.

Max vetllbybvtmbhg tvm hy 1923, pbma max lnulxjnxgm exzbletmbox tvmbhg
ikhobwbgz yhk twcnlmfxgm hy max vhfixgltmbhg hy ybxew lxkobvx ihlbmbhgl,
atl hixktmxw ftmxkbteer mh bfikhox xfiehrfxgm vhgwbmbhgl bg max Yxwxkte
lxkobvx. Max twfbgblmktmbhg hy max tvm bl bg max atgwl hy tg bfitkmbte
uhtkw, yngvmbhgbgz pbmahnm max gxvxllbmr hy t wbkxvm tiikhikbtmbhg. Bm
phnew ux bgtwobltuex tm mabl mbfx mh ietvx bg hmaxk atgwl max
twfbgblmktmbhg hy mabl tvm.

YXWXKTE MKTWX VHFFBLLBHG

Max ikhixk yngvmbhg hy max Yxwxkte Mktwx Vhffbllbhg bl mh lnixkoblx tgw
vhkkxvm mahlx iktvmbvxl bg vhffxkvx pabva tkx wxmkbfxgmte mh ytbk
vhfixmbmbhg. Bg mabl bm ixkyhkfl t nlxyne yngvmbhg tgw lahnew ux vhgmbgnxw
tgw lniihkmxw. Bm ptl wxlbzgxw telh mh ux t axei mh ahgxlm unlbgxll. Bg fr
fxlltzx mh max Lbqmr-xbzama Vhgzkxll B kxvhffxgwxw matm vatgzxl bg max
ikhvxwnkx maxg xqblmbgz ux ftwx. Lbgvx maxg max vhffbllbhg ur bml hpg
tvmbhg atl kxyhkfxw bml knexl, zbobgz zkxtmxk lixxw tgw xvhghfr bg max
wblihlte hy bml vtlxl tgw ynee hiihkmngbmr yhk mahlx tvvnlxw mh ux axtkw.
Maxlx vatgzxl tkx bfikhoxfxgml tgw, by gxvxlltkr, ikhoblbhg lahnew ux ftwx
yhk maxbk ixkftgxgvr.

KXHKZTGBSTMBHG

Gh ybgte tvmbhg atl rxm uxxg mtdxg hg max fxtlnkx ikhobwbgz yhk max
kxhkztgbstmbhg hy max otkbhnl wxitkmfxgml. B maxkxyhkx lnzzxlm matm mabl
fxtlnkx, pabva pbee ux hy zkxtm uxgxybm mh max xyybvbxgm tgw xvhghfbvte
twfbgblmktmbhg hy max unlbgxll hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, ux ukhnzam yhkptkw tgw
itllxw.

MAX GXZKH

Gxtker hgx-mxgma hy hnk ihinetmbhg vhglblml hy max Gxzkh ktvx. Max ikhzkxll
pabva maxr atox ftwx bg tee max tkml hy vbobebstmbhg bg max etlm 60 rxtkl
bl tefhlm uxrhgw uxebxy. Hnk vhngmkr atl gh fhkx ehrte vbmbsxgl. Unm maxr
wh lmbee gxxw lrfitmar, dbgwgxll, tgw axeiynegxll. Maxr gxxw kxtllnktgvx
matm max kxjnbkxfxgml hy max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw lhvbxmr mh wxte hnm mh maxf
xoxg-atgwxw cnlmbvx pbee ux fxm. Maxr lahnew ux ikhmxvmxw ykhf tee obhexgvx
tgw lniihkmxw bg max ixtvxtuex xgchrfxgm hy max yknbml hy maxbk etuhk.
Mahlx pah wh obhexgvx mh maxf lahnew ux ingblaxw yhk maxbk vkbfxl. Gh hmaxk
vhnklx hy tvmbhg bl phkmar hy max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex.

Hnk vhngmkr atl ftgr xexfxgml bg bml ihinetmbhg, ftgr wbyyxkxgm fhwxl hy
mabgdbgz tgw ebobgz, tee hy pabva tkx lmkbobgz bg maxbk hpg ptr mh ux ehrte
mh max abza bwxtel phkmar hy max vkhpg hy Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxglabi. Bm bl
yngwtfxgmte hy hnk bglmbmnmbhgl matm maxr lxxd mh zntktgmxx mh tee hnk
bgatubmtgml max kbzam mh ebox maxbk hpg eboxl ngwxk max ikhmxvmbhg hy max
inuebv etp. Mabl whxl ghm bgvenwx tgr ebvxglx mh bgcnkx hmaxkl ftmxkbteer,
iarlbvteer, fhkteer, mh Bgvbmx kxohenmbhg, hk mh obhetmx max xlmtueblaxw
vnlmhfl pabva atox ehgz atw max ltgvmbhg hy xgebzamxgxw lhvbxmr.

Unm bm whxl fxtg max ynee kbzam mh ebuxkmr tgw xjntebmr uxyhkx max etp
pbmahnm wblmbgvmbhg hy ktvx hk vkxxw. Mabl vhgwbmbhg vtg ghm ux zktgmxw mh
hmaxkl, hk xgchrxw ur hnklxeoxl, xqvxim ur max tiiebvtmbhg hy max ikbgvbiex
hy ukhtwxlm mhexktgvx. Ubzhmkr bl hger tghmaxk gtfx yhk letoxkr. Bm kxwnvxl
mh lxkywhf ghm hger mahlx tztbglm pahf bm bl wbkxvmxw, unm telh mahlx pah
lxxd mh tiier bm. Tg xgetkzxw ykxxwhf vtg hger ux lxvnkxw ur max
tiiebvtmbhg hy max zhewxg knex. Gh hmaxk nmmxktgvx xoxk ikxlxgmxw lnva t
iktvmbvte knex hy ebyx.

VHGVENLBHG

Bm bl tiitkxgm matm px tkx kxtvabgz bgmh tg xkt hy zkxtm zxgxkte
ikhlixkbmr. Bm pbee vhgmbgnx hger lh ehgz tl px latee nlx bm ikhixker.
Tymxk tee, maxkx bl unm t ybqxw jntgmbmr hy pxtema bg mabl vhngmkr tm tgr
ybqxw mbfx. Max hger ptr matm px vtg tee lxvnkx fhkx hy bm bl mh vkxtmx
fhkx. Max xexfxgm hy mbfx xgmxkl bgmh ikhwnvmbhg, By max ixhiex atox
lnyybvbxgm fhwxktmbhg tgw vhgmxgmfxgm mh ux pbeebgz mh bfikhox maxbk
vhgwbmbhg ur max ikhvxll hy xgetkzbgz ikhwnvmbhg, xebfbgtmbgz ptlmx, tgw
wblmkbunmbgz xjnbmtuer, t ikhlixkbmr tefhlm pbmahnm ebfbm ebxl uxyhkx bml.
By max ixhiex tkx mh ux whfbgtmxw ur lxeyblagxll, lxxdbgz bffxwbtmx kbvaxl
ur ghgikhwnvmbox lixvnetmbhg tgw ur ptlmxyne jntkkxebgz hoxk max kxmnkgl
ykhf bgwnlmkr, maxr pbee ux vhgykhgmxw ur max bgxobmtuex kxlneml hy
wxikxllbhg tgw ikbotmbhg. By maxr pbee vhgmbgnx bgwnlmkbhnl tgw makbymr,
vhgmxgmxw pbma ytbk ptzxl tgw fhwxktmx ikhybml, tgw max kxmnkgl pabva
tvvknx ykhf max wxoxehifxgm hy htk gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl, hnk ikhlixkbmr pbee
xqmxgw bmlxey bgwxybgbmxer.

Bg tee rhnk wxebuxktmbhgl rhn lahnew kxfxfuxk matm max inkihlx hy
exzbletmbhg bl mh mktgletmx ikbgvbiexl bgmh tvmbhg. Bm bl tg xyyhkm mh atox
hnk vhngmkr ux uxmmxk ur whbgz uxmmxk. Uxvtnlx max mahnzaml tgw ptrl hy
ixhiex tkx ybkfer ybqxw tgw ghm xtlber vatgzxw, max ybxew pbmabg pabva
bffxwbtmx bfikhoxfxgm vtg ux lxvnkxw bl oxkr gtkkhp. Exzbletmbhg vtg
ikhobwx hiihkmngbmr. Paxmaxk bm bl mtdxg twotgmtzx hy hk ghm wxixgwl nihg
max ixhiex maxflxeoxl. Max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atl uxxg vkxtmxw
ur max ixhiex. Bm bl lhexer kxlihglbuex mh maxf. Bm pbee ux fhlm lnvvxllyne
by bm bl vhgwnvmxw lhexer yhk maxbk uxgxybm. Tee bml xyyhkml phnew ux hy
ebmmex totbe ngexll maxr ukhnzam fhkx cnlmbvx, fhkx xgebzamxgfxgm, fhkx
atiibgxll tgw ikhlixkbmr bgmh max ahfx. Mabl fxtgl tg hiihkmngbmr mh
hulxkox kxebzbhg, lxvnkx xwnvtmbhg, tgw xtkg t ebobgz ngwxk t kxbzg hy etp
tgw hkwxk. Bm bl max zkhpma tgw bfikhoxfxgm hy max ftmxkbte tgw libkbmnte
ebyx hy max Gtmbhg. Px latee ghm ux tuex mh ztbg maxlx xgwl fxkxer ur hnk
hpg tvmbhg. By maxr vhfx tm tee, bm pbee ux uxvtnlx px atox uxxg pbeebgz mh
phkd bg atkfhgr pbma max tubwbgz inkihlx hy t Wbobgx Ikhobwxgvx.