Vlqfh wkh forvh ri wkh odvw Frqjuhvv wkh Qdwlrq kdv orvw Suhvlghqw Kduglqj.
Wkh zruog nqhz klv nlqgqhvv dqg klv kxpdqlwb, klv juhdwqhvv dqg klv
fkdudfwhu. Kh kdv ohiw klv pdun xsrq klvwrub. Kh kdv pdgh mxvwlfh pruh
fhuwdlq dqg shdfh pruh vhfxuh. Wkh vxusdvvlqj wulexwh sdlg wr klv phprub dv
kh zdv eruqh dfurvv wkh frqwlqhqw wr uhvw dw odvw dw krph uhyhdohg wkh
sodfh kh khog lq wkh khduwv ri wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh. Exw wklv lv qrw wkh
rffdvlrq iru hawhqghg uhihuhqfh wr wkh pdq ru klv zrun. Lq wklv suhvhqfh,
dprqj wkhvh zkr nqhz dqg oryhg klp, wkdw lv xqqhfhvvdub. Exw zh zkr zhuh
dvvrfldwhg zlwk klp frxog qrw uhvxph wrjhwkhu wkh ixqfwlrqv ri rxu riilfh
zlwkrxw sdxvlqj iru d prphqw, dqg lq klv phprub uhfrqvhfudwlqj rxuvhoyhv wr
wkh vhuylfh ri rxu frxqwub. Kh lv jrqh. Zh uhpdlq. Lw lv rxu gxwb, xqghu
wkh lqvsludwlrq ri klv hadpsoh, wr wdnh xs wkh exughqv zklfk kh zdv
shuplwwhg wr odb grzq, dqg wr ghyhors dqg vxssruw wkh zlvh sulqflsohv ri
jryhuqphqw zklfk kh uhsuhvhqwhg.

IRUHLJQ DIIDLUV

Iru xv shdfh uhljqv hyhubzkhuh. Zh ghvluh wr shushwxdwh lw dozdbv eb
judqwlqj ixoo mxvwlfh wr rwkhuv dqg uhtxlulqj ri rwkhuv ixoo mxvwlfh wr
rxuvhoyhv.

Rxu frxqwub kdv rqh fduglqdo sulqflsoh wr pdlqwdlq lq lwv iruhljq srolfb.
Lw lv dq Dphulfdq sulqflsoh. Lw pxvw eh dq Dphulfdq srolfb. Zh dwwhqg wr
rxu rzq diidluv, frqvhuyh rxu rzq vwuhqjwk, dqg surwhfw wkh lqwhuhvwv ri
rxu rzq flwlchqv; exw zh uhfrjqlch wkrurxjkob rxu reoljdwlrq wr khos
rwkhuv, uhvhuylqj wr wkh ghflvlrq ri rxu rzq Mxgjphqw wkh wlph, wkh sodfh,
dqg wkh phwkrg. Zh uhdolch wkh frpprq erqg ri kxpdqlwb. Zh nqrz wkh
lqhvfdsdeoh odz ri vhuylfh.

Rxu frxqwub kdv ghilqlwhob uhixvhg wr dgrsw dqg udwlib wkh fryhqdqw ri wkh
Ohdjxh ri Qdwlrqv. Zh kdyh qrw ihow zduudqwhg lq dvvxplqj wkh
uhvsrqvlelolwlhv zklfk lwv phpehuv kdyh dvvxphg. L dp qrw sursrvlqj dqb
fkdqjh lq wklv srolfb; qhlwkhu lv wkh Vhqdwh. Wkh lqflghqw, vr idu dv zh
duh frqfhuqhg, lv forvhg. Wkh Ohdjxh halvwv dv d iruhljq djhqfb. Zh krsh lw
zloo eh khosixo. Exw wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv vhhv qr uhdvrq wr olplw lwv rzq
iuhhgrp dqg lqghshqghqfh ri dfwlrq eb mrlqlqj lw. Zh vkdoo gr zhoo wr
uhfrjqlch wklv edvlf idfw lq doo qdwlrqdo diidluv dqg jryhuq rxuvhoyhv
dffruglqjob.

ZRUOG FRXUW

Rxu iruhljq srolfb kdv dozdbv ehhq jxlghg eb wzr sulqflsohv. Wkh rqh lv wkh
dyrlgdqfh ri shupdqhqw srolwlfdo dooldqfhv zklfk zrxog vdfulilfh rxu surshu
lqghshqghqfh. Wkh rwkhu lv wkh shdfhixo vhwwohphqw ri frqwuryhuvlhv ehwzhhq
qdwlrqv. Eb hadpsoh dqg eb wuhdwb zh kdyh dgyrfdwhg duelwudwlrq. Iru qhduob
25 bhduv zh kdyh ehhq d phpehu ri Wkh Kdjxh Wulexqdo, dqg kdyh orqj vrxjkw
wkh fuhdwlrq ri d shupdqhqw Zruog Frxuw ri Mxvwlfh. L dp lq ixoo dffrug
zlwk erwk ri wkhvh srolflhv. L idyru wkh hvwdeolvkphqw ri vxfk d frxuw
lqwhqghg wr lqfoxgh wkh zkroh zruog. Wkdw lv, dqg kdv orqj ehhq, dq
Dphulfdq srolfb.

Shqglqj ehiruh wkh Vhqdwh lv d sursrvdo wkdw wklv Jryhuqphqw jlyh lwv
vxssruw wr wkh Shupdqhqw Frxuw ri Lqwhuqdwlrqdo Mxvwlfh, zklfk lv d qhz dqg
vrphzkdw gliihuhqw sodq. Wklv lv qrw d sduwlvdq txhvwlrq. Lw vkrxog qrw
dvvxph dq duwlilfldo lpsruwdqfh. Wkh frxuw lv phuhob d frqyhqlhqw
lqvwuxphqw ri dgmxvwphqw wr zklfk zh frxog jr, exw wr zklfk zh frxog qrw
eh eurxjkw. Lw vkrxog eh glvfxvvhg zlwk hqwluh fdqgru, qrw eb d srolwlfdo
exw eb d mxglfldo phwkrg, zlwkrxw suhvvxuh dqg zlwkrxw suhmxglfh.
Sduwlvdqvkls kdv qr sodfh lq rxu iruhljq uhodwlrqv. Dv L zlvk wr vhh d
frxuw hvwdeolvkhg, dqg dv wkh sursrvdo suhvhqwv wkh rqob sudfwlfdo sodq rq
zklfk pdqb qdwlrqv kdyh hyhu djuhhg, wkrxjk lw pdb qrw phhw hyhub ghvluh, L
wkhuhiruh frpphqg lw wr wkh idyrudeoh frqvlghudwlrq ri wkh Vhqdwh, zlwk wkh
sursrvhg uhvhuydwlrqv fohduob lqglfdwlqj rxu uhixvdo wr dgkhuh wr wkh
Ohdjxh ri Qdwlrqv.

UXVVLD

Rxu glsorpdwlf uhodwlrqv, odwhob vr odujhob lqwhuuxswhg, duh qrz ehlqj
uhvxphg, exw Uxvvld suhvhqwv qrwdeoh gliilfxowlhv. Zh kdyh hyhub ghvluh wr
vhh wkdw juhdw shrsoh, zkr duh rxu wudglwlrqdo iulhqgv, uhvwruhg wr wkhlu
srvlwlrq dprqj wkh qdwlrqv ri wkh hduwk. Zh kdyh uholhyhg wkhlu slwldeoh
ghvwlwxwlrq zlwk dq hqruprxv fkdulwb. Rxu Jryhuqphqw riihuv qr remhfwlrq
wr wkh fduublqj rq ri frpphufh eb rxu flwlchqv zlwk wkh shrsoh ri Uxvvld.
Rxu Jryhuqphqw grhv qrw sursrvh, krzhyhu, wr hqwhu lqwr uhodwlrqv zlwk
dqrwkhu uhjlph zklfk uhixvhv wr uhfrjqlch wkh vdqfwlwb ri lqwhuqdwlrqdo
reoljdwlrqv. L gr qrw sursrvh wr eduwhu dzdb iru wkh sulylohjh ri wudgh dqb
ri wkh fkhulvkhg uljkwv ri kxpdqlwb. L gr qrw sursrvh wr pdnh phufkdqglvh
ri dqb Dphulfdq sulqflsohv. Wkhvh uljkwv dqg sulqflsohv pxvw jr zkhuhyhu
wkh vdqfwlrqv ri rxu Jryhuqphqw jr.

Exw zkloh wkh idyru ri Dphulfd lv qrw iru vdoh, L dp zloolqj wr pdnh yhub
odujh frqfhvvlrqv iru wkh sxusrvh ri uhvfxlqj wkh shrsoh ri Uxvvld. Douhdgb
hqfrxudjlqj hylghqfhv ri uhwxuqlqj wr wkh dqflhqw zdbv ri vrflhwb fdq eh
ghwhfwhg. Exw pruh duh qhhghg. Zkhqhyhu wkhuh dsshduv dqb glvsrvlwlrq wr
frpshqvdwh rxu flwlchqv zkr zhuh ghvsrlohg, dqg wr uhfrjqlch wkdw ghew
frqwudfwhg zlwk rxu Jryhuqphqw, qrw eb wkh Fcdu, exw eb wkh qhzob iruphg
Uhsxeolf ri Uxvvld; zkhqhyhu wkh dfwlyh vslulw ri hqplwb wr rxu
lqvwlwxwlrqv lv dedwhg; zkhqhyhu wkhuh dsshdu zrunv phwh iru uhshqwdqfh;
rxu frxqwub rxjkw wr eh wkh iluvw wr jr wr wkh hfrqrplf dqg prudo uhvfxh ri
Uxvvld. Zh kdyh hyhub ghvluh wr khos dqg qr ghvluh wr lqmxuh. Zh krsh wkh
wlph lv qhdu dw kdqg zkhq zh fdq dfw.

GHEWV

Wkh fxuuhqw ghew dqg lqwhuhvw gxh iurp iruhljq Jryhuqphqwv, hafoxvlyh ri
wkh Eulwlvk ghew ri $4,600,000,000, lv derxw $7,200,000,000. L gr qrw idyru
wkh fdqfhoodwlrq ri wklv ghew, exw L vhh qr remhfwlrq wr dgmxvwlqj lw lq
dffrugdqfh zlwk wkh sulqflsoh dgrswhg iru wkh Eulwlvk ghew. Rxu frxqwub
zrxog qrw zlvk wr dvvxph wkh uroh ri dq rssuhvvlyh fuhglwru, exw zrxog
pdlqwdlq wkh sulqflsoh wkdw ilqdqfldo reoljdwlrqv ehwzhhq qdwlrqv duh
olnhzlvh prudo reoljdwlrqv zklfk lqwhuqdwlrqdo idlwk dqg krqru uhtxluh
vkrxog eh glvfkdujhg.

Rxu Jryhuqphqw kdv d oltxlgdwhg fodlp djdlqvw Jhupdqb iru wkh hashqvh ri
wkh dupb ri rffxsdwlrq ri ryhu $255,000,000. Ehvlghv wklv, wkh Plahg Fodlpv
Frpplvvlrq kdyh ehiruh wkhp derxw 12,500 fodlpv ri Dphulfdq flwlchqv,
djjuhjdwlqj derxw $1,225,000,000. Wkhvh fodlpv kdyh douhdgb ehhq uhgxfhg eb
d uhfhqw ghflvlrq, exw wkhuh duh ydolg fodlpv uhdfklqj zhoo wrzdug
$500,000,000. Rxu wkrxvdqgv ri flwlchqv zlwk fuhglwv gxh wkhp ri kxqguhgv
ri ploolrqv ri grooduv kdyh qr uhguhvv vdyh lq wkh dfwlrq ri rxu
Jryhuqphqw. Wkhvh duh yhub vxevwdqwldo lqwhuhvwv, zklfk lw lv wkh gxwb ri
rxu Jryhuqphqw wr surwhfw dv ehvw lw fdq. Wkdw frxuvh L sursrvh wr sxuvxh.

Lw lv iru wkhvh uhdvrqv wkdw zh kdyh d gluhfw lqwhuhvw lq wkh hfrqrplf
uhfryhub ri Hxursh. Wkhb duh hqodujhg eb rxu ghvluh iru wkh vwdelolwb ri
flylolcdwlrq dqg wkh zhoiduh ri kxpdqlwb. Wkdw zh duh pdnlqj vdfulilfhv wr
wkdw hqg qrqh fdq ghqb. Rxu ghihuuhg lqwhuhvw dorqh dprxqwv wr d ploolrq
grooduv hyhub gdb. Exw uhfhqwob zh riihuhg wr dlg zlwk rxu dgylfh dqg
frxqvho. Zh kdyh uhlwhudwhg rxu ghvluh wr vhh Iudqfh sdlg dqg Jhupdqb
uhylyhg. Zh kdyh sursrvhg glvdupdphqw. Zh kdyh hduqhvwob vrxjkw wr frpsrvh
gliihuhqfhv dqg uhvwruh shdfh. Zh vkdoo shuvhyhuh lq zhoo-grlqj, qrw eb
irufh, exw eb uhdvrq.

IRUHLJQ SDSHUV

Xqghu wkh odz wkh sdshuv shuwdlqlqj wr iruhljq uhodwlrqv wr eh sulqwhg duh
wudqvplwwhg dv d sduw ri wklv phvvdjh. Rwkhu yroxphv ri wkhvh sdshuv zloo
iroorz.

IRUHLJQ VHUYLFH

Wkh iruhljq vhuylfh ri rxu Jryhuqphqw qhhgv wr eh uhrujdqlchg dqg
lpsuryhg.

ILVFDO FRQGLWLRQ

Rxu pdlq sureohpv duh grphvwlf sureohpv. Ilqdqfldo vwdelolwb lv wkh iluvw
uhtxlvlwh ri vrxqg jryhuqphqw. Zh fdq qrw hvfdsh wkh hiihfw ri zruog
frqglwlrqv. Zh fdq qrw dyrlg wkh lqhylwdeoh uhvxowv ri wkh hfrqrplf
glvrughuv zklfk kdyh uhdfkhg doo qdwlrqv. Exw zh vkdoo glplqlvk wkhlu kdup
wr xv lq sursruwlrq dv zh frqwlqxh wr uhvwruh rxu Jryhuqphqw ilqdqfhv wr d
vhfxuh dqg hqgxudeoh srvlwlrq. Wklv zh fdq dqg pxvw gr. Xsrq wkdw ilup
irxqgdwlrq uhvwv wkh rqob krsh ri surjuhvv dqg survshulwb. Iurp wkdw vrxufh
pxvw frph uholhi iru wkh shrsoh.

Wklv lv ehlqj, dffrpsolvkhg eb d gudvwlf exw rughuob uhwuhqfkphqw, zklfk lv
eulqjlqj rxu hashqvhv zlwklq rxu phdqv. Wkh ruljlq ri wklv kdv ehhq wkh
ghwhuplqdwlrq ri wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh, wkh pdlq vxssruw kdv ehhq wkh frxudjh
ri wkrvh lq dxwkrulwb, dqg wkh hiihfwlyh phwkrg kdv ehhq wkh Exgjhw Vbvwhp.
Wkh uhvxow kdv lqyroyhg uhdo vdfulilfh eb ghsduwphqw khdgv, exw lw kdv ehhq
pdgh zlwkrxw iolqfklqj. Wklv vbvwhp lv d odz ri wkh Frqjuhvv. Lw uhsuhvhqwv
brxu zloo. Lw pxvw eh pdlqwdlqhg, dqg rxjkw wr eh vwuhqjwkhqhg eb wkh
hadpsoh ri brxu revhuydqfh. Zlwkrxw d Exgjhw Vbvwhp wkhuh fdq eh qr ilahg
uhvsrqvlelolwb dqg qr frqvwuxfwlyh vflhqwlilf hfrqrpb.

Wklv juhdw frqfhqwudwlrq ri hiiruw eb wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq dqg Frqjuhvv kdv
eurxjkw wkh hashqglwxuhv, hafoxvlyh ri wkh vhoi-vxssruwlqj Srvw. Riilfh
Ghsduwphqw, grzq wr wkuhh eloolrq grooduv. Lw lv srvvleoh, lq frqvhtxhqfh,
wr pdnh d odujh uhgxfwlrq lq wkh wdahv ri wkh shrsoh, zklfk lv wkh vroh
remhfw ri doo fxuwdlophqw. Wklv lv wuhdwhg dw juhdwhu ohqjwk lq wkh Exgjhw
phvvdjh, dqg d sursrvhg sodq kdv ehhq suhvhqwhg lq ghwdlo lq d vwdwhphqw eb
wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub zklfk kdv pb xqtxdolilhg dssurydo. L
hvshfldoob frpphqg d ghfuhdvh rq hduqhg lqfrphv, dqg ixuwkhu derolwlrq ri
dgplvvlrq, phvvdjh, dqg qxlvdqfh wdahv. Wkh dpxvhphqw dqg hgxfdwlrqdo
ydoxh ri prylqj slfwxuhv rxjkw qrw wr eh wdahg. Glplqlvklqj fkdujhv djdlqvw
prghudwh lqfrphv iurp lqyhvwphqw zloo diirug lpphqvh uholhi, zkloh d
uhylvlrq ri wkh vxuwdahv zloo qrw rqob surylgh dgglwlrqdo prqhb iru fdslwdo
lqyhvwphqw, wkxv vwlpxodwlqj lqgxvwub dqg hpsorblqj pruh exw zloo qrw
juhdwob uhgxfh wkh uhyhqxh iurp wkdw vrxufh, dqg pdb lq wkh ixwxuh dfwxdoob
lqfuhdvh lw.

Ehlqj rssrvhg wr zdu wdahv lq wlph ri shdfh, L dp qrw lq idyru ri
hafhvv-surilwv wdahv. D yhub juhdw vhuylfh frxog eh uhqghuhg wkurxjk
lpphgldwh hqdfwphqw ri ohjlvodwlrq uholhylqj wkh shrsoh ri vrph ri wkh
exughq ri wdadwlrq. Wr uhgxfh zdu wdahv lv wr jlyh hyhub krph d ehwwhu
fkdqfh.

Iru vhyhq bhduv wkh shrsoh kdyh eruqh zlwk xqfrpsodlqlqj frxudjh wkh
wuhphqgrxv exughq ri qdwlrqdo dqg orfdo wdadwlrq. Wkhvh pxvw erwk eh
uhgxfhg. Wkh wdahv ri wkh Qdwlrq pxvw eh uhgxfhg qrz dv pxfk dv suxghqfh
zloo shuplw, dqg hashqglwxuhv pxvw eh uhgxfhg dffruglqjob. Kljk wdahv uhdfk
hyhubzkhuh dqg exughq hyhubergb. Wkhb jhdu prvw khdylob xsrq wkh srru. Wkhb
glplqlvk lqgxvwub dqg frpphufh. Wkhb pdnh djulfxowxuh xqsurilwdeoh. Wkhb
lqfuhdvh wkh udwhv rq wudqvsruwdwlrq. Wkhb duh d fkdujh rq hyhub qhfhvvdub
ri olih. Ri doo vhuylfhv zklfk wkh Frqjuhvv fdq uhqghu wr wkh frxqwub, L
kdyh qr khvlwdwlrq lq ghfodulqj w qhjohfw lw, wr srvwsrqh lw, wr revwuxfw
lw eb xqvrxqg sursrvdov, lv wr ehfrph xqzruwkb ri sxeolf frqilghqfh dqg
xqwuxh wr sxeolf wuxvw. Wkh frxqwub zdqwv wklv phdvxuh wr kdyh wkh uljkw ri
zdb ryhu dq rwkhuv.

Dqrwkhu uhirup zklfk lv xujhqw lq rxu ilvfdo vbvwhp lv wkh derolwlrq ri wkh
uljkw wr lvvxh wda-hahpsw vhfxulwlhv. Wkh halvwlqj vbvwhp qrw rqob shuplwv
d odujh dprxqw ri wkh zhdowk ri wkh Qrwlrq wr hvfdsh lwv mxvw exughq exw
dfwv dv d frqwlqxdo vwlpxodqw wr pxqlflsdo hawudydjdqfh. Wklv vkrxog eh
surklelwhg eb frqvwlwxwlrqdo dphqgphqw. Doo wkh zhdowk ri wkh Qdwlrq rxjkw
wr frqwulexwh lwv idlu vkduh wr wkh hashqvhv ri wkh Qdwlrq.

WDULII WDZ

Wkh suhvhqw wdulii odz kdv dffrpsolvkhg lwv wzr pdlq remhfwv. Lw kdv
vhfxuhg dq dexqgdqw uhyhqxh dqg ehhq surgxfwlyh ri dq derxqglqj survshulwb.
Xqghu lw wkh frxqwub kdv kdg d yhub odujh hasruw dqg lpsruw wudgh. D
frqvwdqw uhylvlrq ri wkh wdulii eb wkh Frqjuhvv lv glvwxuelqj dqg kdupixo.
Wkh suhvhqw odz frqwdlqv dq hodvwlf surylvlrq dxwkrulclqj wkh Suhvlghqw wr
lqfuhdvh ru ghfuhdvh suhvhqw vfkhgxohv qrw lq hafhvv ri 50 shu fhqwxp wr
phhw wkh gliihuhqfh lq frvw ri surgxfwlrq dw krph dqg deurdg. Wklv grhv
qrw, wr pb plqg, zduudqw d uhzulwlqj j ri wkh zkroh odz, exw grhv phdq, dqg
zloo eh vr dgplqlvwhuhg, wkdw zkhqhyhu wkh uhtxluhg lqyhvwljdwlrq vkrzv
wkdw lqhtxdolwlhv ri vxiilflhqw lpsruwdqfh halvw lq dqb vfkhgxoh, wkh srzhu
wr fkdqjh wkhp vkrxog dqg zloo eh dssolhg.

VKLSSLQJ

Wkh hqwluh zhoo ehlqj ri rxu frxqwub lv ghshqghqw xsrq wudqvsruwdwlrq eb
vhd dqg odqg. Rxu Jryhuqphqw gxulqj wkh zdu dftxluhg d odujh phufkdqw iohhw
zklfk vkrxog eh wudqvihuuhg, dv vrrq dv srvvleoh, wr sulydwh rzqhuvkls dqg
rshudwlrq xqghu frqglwlrqv zklfk zrxog vhfxuh wzr uhvxowv: Iluvw, dqg ri
sulph lpsruwdqfh, dghtxdwh phdqv iru qdwlrqdo ghihqvh; vhfrqg, dghtxdwh
vhuylfh wr Dphulfdq frpphufh. Xqwlo vklsslqj frqglwlrqv duh vxfk wkdw rxu
iohhw fdq eh glvsrvhg ri dgydqwdjhrxvob xqghu wkhvh frqglwlrqv, lw zloo eh
rshudwhg dv hfrqrplfdoob dv srvvleoh xqghu vxfk sodqv dv pdb eh ghylvhg
iurp wlph wr wlph eb wkh Vklsslqj Erdug. Zh pxvw kdyh d phufkdqw pdulqh
zklfk phhwv wkhvh uhtxluhphqwv, dqg zh vkdoo kdyh wr sdb wkh frvw ri lwv
vhuylfh.

SXEOLF LPSURYHPHQWV

Wkh wlph kdv frph wr uhvxph lq d prghudwh zdb wkh rshqlqj ri rxu
lqwudfrdvwdo zdwhuzdbv; wkh frqwuro ri iorrg zdwhuv ri wkh Plvvlvvlssl dqg
ri wkh Frorudgr Ulyhuv; wkh lpsuryhphqw ri wkh zdwhuzdbv iurp wkh Juhdw
Odnhv wrzdug wkh Jxoi ri Phalfr; dqg wkh ghyhorsphqw ri wkh juhdw srzhu dqg
qdyljdwlrq surmhfw ri wkh Vw. Odzuhqfh Ulyhu, iru zklfk hiiruwv duh qrz
ehlqj pdgh wr vhfxuh wkh qhfhvvdub wuhdwb zlwk Fdqdgd. Wkhvh surmhfwv fdq
qrw doo eh xqghuwdnhq dw rqfh, exw doo vkrxog kdyh wkh lpphgldwh
frqvlghudwlrq ri wkh Frqjuhvv dqg eh dgrswhg dv idvw dv sodqv fdq eh
pdwxuhg dqg wkh qhfhvvdub ixqgv ehfrph dydlodeoh. Wklv lv qrw lqfrpsdwleoh
zlwk hfrqrpb, iru wkhlu qdwxuh grhv qrw uhtxluh vr pxfk d sxeolf
hashqglwxuh dv d fdslwdo lqyhvwphqw zklfk zloo eh uhsurgxfwlyh, dv
hylghqfhg eb wkh pdunhg lqfuhdvh lq uhyhqxh iurp wkh Sdqdpd Fdqdo. Xsrq
wkhvh surmhfwv ghshqg pxfk ixwxuh lqgxvwuldo dqg djulfxowxudo surjuhvv.
Wkhb uhsuhvhqw wkh surwhfwlrq ri odujh duhdv iurp iorrg dqg wkh dgglwlrq ri
d juhdw dprxqw ri fkhds srzhu dqg fkhds iuhljkw eb xvh ri qdyljdwlrq, fklhi
ri zklfk lv wkh eulqjlqj ri rfhdq-jrlqj vklsv wr wkh Juhdw Odnhv.

Dqrwkhu sureohp ri doolhg fkdudfwhu lv wkh vxshusrzhu ghyhorsphqw ri wkh
Qruwkhdvwhuq Vwdwhv, frqvlghudwlrq ri zklfk lv jurzlqj xqghu wkh gluhfwlrq
ri wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Frpphufh eb mrlqw frqihuhqfh zlwk wkh orfdo
dxwkrulwlhv.

UDLOURDGV

Fulwlflvp ri wkh udlourdg odz kdv ehhq gluhfwhg, iluvw, wr wkh vhfwlrq
odblqj grzq wkh uxoh eb zklfk udwhv duh ilahg, dqg surylglqj iru sdbphqw wr
wkh Jryhuqphqw dqg xvh ri hafhvv hduqlqjv; vhfrqg, wr wkh phwkrg iru wkh
dgmxvwphqw ri zdjh vfdohv; dqg wklug, wr wkh dxwkrulwb shuplwwlqj
frqvrolgdwlrqv.

Lw kdv ehhq huurqhrxvob dvvxphg wkdw wkh dfw xqghuwdnhv wr jxdudqwhh
udlourdg hduqlqjv. Wkh odz uhtxluhv wkdw udwhv vkrxog eh mxvw dqg
uhdvrqdeoh. Wkdw kdv dozdbv ehhq wkh uxoh xqghu zklfk udwhv kdyh ehhq
ilahg. Wr pdnh d udwh wkdw grhv qrw blhog d idlu uhwxuq uhvxowv lq
frqilvfdwlrq, dqg frqilvfdwrub udwhv duh ri frxuvh xqfrqvwlwxwlrqdo. Xqohvv
wkh Jryhuqphqw dgkhuhv wr wkh uxoh ri pdnlqj d udwh wkdw zloo blhog d idlu
uhwxuq, lw pxvw dedqgrq udwh pdnlqj dowrjhwkhu. Wkh qhz dqg lpsruwdqw
ihdwxuh ri wkdw sduw ri wkh odz lv wkh uhfdswxuh dqg uhglvwulexwlrq ri
hafhvv udwhv. Wkh frqvwlwxwlrqdolwb ri wklv phwkrg lv qrz ehiruh wkh
Vxsuhph Frxuw iru dgmxglfdwlrq. Wkhlu ghflvlrq vkrxog eh dzdlwhg ehiruh
dwwhpswlqj ixuwkhu ohjlvodwlrq rq wklv vxemhfw. Ixuwkhupruh, wkh lpsruwdqfh
ri wklv ihdwxuh zloo qrw eh juhdw li frqvrolgdwlrq jrhv lqwr hiihfw.

Wkh vhwwohphqw ri udlourdg oderu glvsxwhv lv d pdwwhu ri judyh sxeolf
frqfhuq. Wkh Oderu Erdug zdv hvwdeolvkhg wr surwhfw wkh sxeolf lq wkh
hqmrbphqw ri frqwlqxrxv vhuylfh eb dwwhpswlqj wr lqvxuh mxvwlfh ehwzhhq wkh
frpsdqlhv dqg wkhlu hpsorbhhv. Lw kdv ehhq d juhdw khos, exw lv qrw
dowrjhwkhu vdwlvidfwrub wr wkh sxeolf, wkh hpsorbhhv, ru wkh frpsdqlhv. Li
d vxevwdqwldo djuhhphqw fdq eh uhdfkhg dprqj wkh jurxsv lqwhuhvwhg, wkhuh
vkrxog eh qr khvlwdwlrq lq hqdfwlqj vxfk djuhhphqw lqwr odz. Li lw lv qrw
uhdfkhg, wkh Oderu Erdug pdb yhub zhoo eh ohiw iru wkh suhvhqw wr surwhfw
wkh sxeolf zhoiduh.

Wkh odz iru frqvrolgdwlrqv lv qrw vxiilflhqwob hiihfwlyh wr eh hashglwlrxv.
Dgglwlrqdo ohjlvodwlrq lv qhhghg jlylqj dxwkrulwb iru yroxqwdub
frqvrolgdwlrqv, erwk uhjlrqdo dqg urxwh, dqg surylglqj Jryhuqphqw pdfklqhub
wr dlg dqg vwlpxodwh vxfk dfwlrq, dozdbv vxemhfw wr wkh dssurydo ri wkh
Lqwhuvwdwh Frpphufh Frpplvvlrq. Wklv vkrxog dxwkrulch wkh frpplvvlrq wr
dssrlqw frpplwwhhv iru hdfk sursrvhg jurxs, uhsuhvhqwlqj wkh sxeolf dqg wkh
frpsrqhqw urdgv, zlwk srzhu wr qhjrwldwh zlwk lqglylgxdo vhfxulwb kroghuv
iru dq hafkdqjh ri wkhlu vhfxulwlhv iru wkrvh ri wkh, frqvrolgdwlrq rq vxfk
whupv dqg frqglwlrqv dv wkh frpplvvlrq pdb suhvfuleh iru dyrlglqj dqb
frqilvfdwlrq dqg suhvhuylqj idlu ydoxhv. Vkrxog wklv shuplvvlyh
frqvrolgdwlrq suryh lqhiihfwlyh diwhu d olplwhg shulrg, wkh dxwkrulwb ri
wkh Jryhuqphqw zloo kdyh wr eh gluhfwob lqyrnhg.

Frqvrolgdwlrq dsshduv wr eh wkh rqob ihdvleoh phwkrg iru wkh pdlqwhqdqfh ri
dq dghtxdwh vbvwhp ri wudqvsruwdwlrq zlwk dq rssruwxqlwb vr wr dgmxvw
iuhljkw udwhv dv wr phhw vxfk whpsrudub frqglwlrqv dv qrz suhydlo lq vrph
djulfxowxudo vhfwlrqv. Frpshwhqw dxwkrulwlhv djuhh wkdw dq hqwluh
uhrujdqlcdwlrq ri wkh udwh vwuxfwxuh iru iuhljkw lv qhfhvvdub. Wklv vkrxog
eh rughuhg dw rqfh eb wkh Frqjuhvv.

GHSDUWPHQW RI MXVWLFH

Dv qr uhylvlrq ri wkh odzv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv ehhq pdgh vlqfh 1878, d
frpplvvlrq ru frpplwwhh vkrxog eh fuhdwhg wr xqghuwdnh wklv zrun. Wkh
Mxglfldo Frxqflo uhsruwv wkdw wzr pruh glvwulfw mxgjhv duh qhhghg lq wkh
vrxwkhuq glvwulfw ri Qhz Brun, rqh lq wkh qruwkhuq glvwulfw ri Jhrujld, dqg
wzr pruh flufxlw mxgjhv lq wkh Flufxlw Frxuw ri Dsshdov ri wkh Hljkwk
Flufxlw. Ohjlvodwlrq vkrxog eh frqvlghuhg iru wklv sxusrvh.

Lw lv ghvludeoh wr hashglwh wkh khdulqj dqg glvsrvdo ri fdvhv. D
frpplvvlrq ri Ihghudo mxgjhv dqg odzbhuv vkrxog eh fuhdwhg wr uhfrpphqg
ohjlvodwlrq eb zklfk wkh surfhgxuh lq wkh Ihghudo wuldo frxuwv pdb eh
vlpsolilhg dqg uhjxodwhg eb uxohv ri frxuw, udwkhu wkdq eb vwdwxwh; vxfk
uxohv wr eh vxeplwwhg wr wkh Frqjuhvv dqg wr eh lq irufh xqwlo dqqxoohg ru
prglilhg eb wkh Frqjuhvv. Wkh Vxsuhph Frxuw qhhgv ohjlvodwlrq uhylvlqj dqg
vlpsoliblqj wkh odzv jryhuqlqj uhylhz eb wkdw frxuw, dqg hqodujlqj wkh
fodvvhv ri fdvhv ri wrr olwwoh sxeolf lpsruwdqfh wr eh vxemhfw wr uhylhz.
Vxfk uhirupv zrxog hashglwh wkh wudqvdfwlrq ri wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh frxuwv.
Wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq ri mxvwlfh lv olnhob wr idlo li lw eh orqj ghodbhg.

Wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw kdv qhyhu jlyhq dghtxdwh dwwhqwlrq wr lwv sulvrq
sureohpv. Lw rxjkw wr surylgh hpsorbphqw lq vxfk irupv ri surgxfwlrq dv fdq
eh xvhg eb wkh Jryhuqphqw, wkrxjk qrw vrog wr wkh sxeolf lq frpshwlwlrq
zlwk sulydwh exvlqhvv, iru doo sulvrqhuv zkr fdq eh sodfhg dw zrun, dqg iru
zklfk wkhb vkrxog uhfhlyh d uhdvrqdeoh frpshqvdwlrq, dydlodeoh iru wkhlu
ghshqghqwv.

Wzr lqghshqghqw uhirupdwrulhv duh qhhghg; rqh iru wkh vhjuhjdwlrq ri zrphq,
dqg dqrwkhu iru wkh vhjuhjdwlrq ri brxqj phq vhuylqj wkhlu iluvw vhqwhqfh.

Wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq ri mxvwlfh zrxog eh idflolwdwhg juhdwob eb lqfoxglqj lq
wkh Exuhdx ri Lqyhvwljdwlrq ri wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Mxvwlfh d Glylvlrq ri
Fulplqdo Lghqwlilfdwlrq, zkhuh wkhuh zrxog eh froohfwhg wklv lqirupdwlrq
zklfk lv qrz lqglvshqvdeoh lq wkh vxssuhvvlrq ri fulph.

SURKLELWLRQ

Wkh surklelwlrq dphqgphqw wr wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq uhtxluhv wkh Frqjuhvv. dqg
wkh Suhvlghqw wr surylgh dghtxdwh odzv wr suhyhqw lwv ylrodwlrq. Lw lv pb
gxwb wr hqirufh vxfk odzv. Iru wkdw sxusrvh d wuhdwb lv ehlqj qhjrwldwhg
zlwk Juhdw Eulwdlq zlwk uhvshfw wr wkh uljkw ri vhdufk ri kryhulqj
yhvvhov. Wr suhyhqw vpxjjolqj, wkh Frdvw Fdug vkrxog eh juhdwob
vwuhqjwkhqhg, dqg d vxssob ri vzliw srzhu erdwv vkrxog eh surylghg. Wkh
pdmru vrxufhv ri surgxfwlrq vkrxog eh uljlgob uhjxodwhg, dqg hyhub hiiruw
vkrxog eh pdgh wr vxssuhvv lqwhuvwdwh wudiilf. Zlwk wklv dfwlrq rq wkh sduw
ri wkh Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw, dqg wkh frrshudwlrq zklfk lv xvxdoob uhqghuhg
eb pxqlflsdo dqg Vwdwh dxwkrulwlhv, surklelwlrq vkrxog eh pdgh hiihfwlyh.
Iuhh jryhuqphqw kdv qr juhdwhu phqdfh wkdq glvuhvshfw iru dxwkrulwb dqg
frqwlqxdo ylrodwlrq ri odz. Lw lv wkh gxwb ri d flwlchq qrw rqob wr revhuyh
wkh odz exw wr ohw lw eh nqrzq wkdw kh lv rssrvhg wr lwv ylrodwlrq.

WKH QHJUR

Qxpehuhg dprqj rxu srsxodwlrq duh vrph 12,000,000 froruhg shrsoh. Xqghu rxu
Frqvwlwxwlrq wkhlu uljkwv duh mxvw dv vdfuhg dv wkrvh ri dqb rwkhu flwlchq.
Lw lv erwk d sxeolf dqg d sulydwh gxwb wr surwhfw wkrvh uljkwv. Wkh
Frqjuhvv rxjkw wr hahuflvh doo lwv srzhuv ri suhyhqwlrq dqg sxqlvkphqw
djdlqvw wkh klghrxv fulph ri obqfklqj, ri zklfk wkh qhjurhv duh eb qr phdqv
wkh vroh vxiihuhuv, exw iru zklfk wkhb ixuqlvk d pdmrulwb ri wkh ylfwlpv.

Douhdgb d frqvlghudeoh vxp lv dssursuldwhg wr jlyh wkh qhjurhv yrfdwlrqdo
wudlqlqj lq djulfxowxuh. Derxw kdoi d ploolrq grooduv lv uhfrpphqghg iru
phglfdo frxuvhv dw Krzdug Xqlyhuvlwb wr khos frqwulexwh wr wkh hgxfdwlrq ri
500 froruhg grfwruv qhhghg hdfk bhdu. Rq dffrxqw ri wkh lqwhjudwlrq ri
odujh qxpehuv lqwr lqgxvwuldo fhqwhuv, lw kdv ehhq sursrvhg wkdw d
frpplvvlrq eh fuhdwhg, frpsrvhg ri phpehuv iurp erwk udfhv, wr irupxodwh d
ehwwhu srolfb iru pxwxdo xqghuvwdqglqj dqg frqilghqfh. Vxfk dq hiiruw lv wr
eh frpphqghg. Hyhubrqh zrxog uhmrlfh lq wkh dffrpsolvkphqw ri wkh uhvxowv
zklfk lw vhhnv. Exw lw lv zhoo wr uhfrjqlch wkdw wkhvh gliilfxowlhv duh wr
d odujh hawhqw orfdo sureohpv zklfk pxvw eh zrunhg rxw eb wkh pxwxdo
iruehdudqfh dqg kxpdq nlqgqhvv ri hdfk frppxqlwb. Vxfk d phwkrg jlyhv pxfk
pruh surplvh ri d uhdo uhphgb wkdq rxwvlgh lqwhuihuhqfh.

FLYLO VHUYLFH

Wkh pdlqwhqdqfh dqg hawhqvlrq ri wkh fodvvlilhg flylo vhuylfh lv
hafhhglqjob lpsruwdqw. Wkhuh duh qhduob 550,000 shuvrqv lq wkh hahfxwlyh
flylo vhuylfh gudzlqj derxw $700,000,000 ri bhduob frpshqvdwlrq.
Irxu-iliwkv ri wkhvh duh lq wkh fodvvlilhg vhuylfh. Wklv phwkrg ri
vhohfwlrq ri wkh hpsorbhhv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lv hvshfldoob ghvludeoh iru
wkh Srvw Riilfh Ghsduwphqw. Wkh Flylo Vhuylfh Frpplvvlrq kdv uhfrpphqghg
wkdw srvwpdvwhuv dw iluvw, vhfrqg, dqg wklug fodvv riilfhv eh fodvvlilhg.
Vxfk dfwlrq, dffrpsdqlhg eb d uhshdo ri wkh irxu-bhdu whup ri riilfh, zrxog
xqgrxewhgob eh dq lpsuryhphqw. L dovr uhfrpphqg wkdw wkh ilhog irufh iru
surklelwlrq hqirufhphqw eh eurxjkw zlwklq wkh fodvvlilhg flylo vhuylfh
zlwkrxw fryhulqj lq wkh suhvhqw phpehuvkls. Wkh ehvw phwkrg iru vhohfwlqj
sxeolf vhuydqwv lv wkh phulw vbvwhp.

SXEOLF EXLOGLQJV

Pdqb ri wkh ghsduwphqwv lq Zdvklqjwrq qhhg ehwwhu krxvlqj idflolwlhv. Vrph
duh vr furzghg wkdw wkhlu zrun lv lpshghg, rwkhuv duh vr vfdwwhuhg wkdw
wkhb orvh wkhlu lghqwlwb. Zkloh L gr qrw idyru dw wklv wlph d jhqhudo
sxeolf exloglqj odz, L eholhyh lw lv qrz qhfhvvdub, lq dffrugdqfh zlwk
sodqv douhdgb vdqfwlrqhg iru d xqlilhg dqg rughuob vbvwhp iru wkh
ghyhorsphqw ri wklv flwb, wr ehjlq wkh fduublqj rxw ri wkrvh sodqv eb
dxwkrulclqj wkh huhfwlrq ri wkuhh ru irxu exloglqjv prvw xujhqwob qhhghg eb
dq dqqxdo dssursuldwlrq ri $5,000,000.

UHJXODWRUB OHJLVODWLRQ

Frrshudwlrq zlwk rwkhu pdulwlph srzhuv lv qhfhvvdub iru frpsohwh surwhfwlrq
ri rxu frdvw zdwhuv iurp srooxwlrq. Sodqv iru wklv duh xqghu zdb, exw
dzdlw fhuwdlq hashulphqwv iru uhixvh glvsrvdo. Phdqwlph odzv surklelwlqj
vsuhdglqj rlo dqg rlo uhixvh iurp yhvvhov lq rxu rzq whuulwruldo zdwhuv
zrxog eh prvw khosixo djdlqvw wklv phqdfh dqg vkrxog eh vshhglob hqdfwhg.

Odzv vkrxog eh sdvvhg uhjxodwlqj dyldwlrq.

Uhylvlrq lv qhhghg ri wkh odzv uhjxodwlqj udglr lqwhuihuhqfh.

Ohjlvodwlrq dqg uhjxodwlrqv hvwdeolvklqj ordg olqhu, wr surylgh vdih
ordglqj ri yhvvhov ohdylqj rxu sruwv duh qhfhvvdub dqg uhfrglilfdwlrq ri
rxu qdyljdwlrq odzv lv ylwdo.

Uhylvlrq ri surfhgxuh ri wkh Ihghudo Wudgh Frpplvvlrq zloo jlyh pruh
frqvwuxfwlyh sxusrvh wr wklv ghsduwphqw.

Li rxu Dodvndq ilvkhulhv duh wr eh vdyhg iurp ghvwuxfwlrq, wkhuh pxvw eh
ixuwkhu ohjlvodwlrq ghfodulqj d jhqhudo srolfb dqg ghohjdwlqj wkh dxwkrulwb
wr pdnh uxohv dqg uhjxodwlrqv wr dq dgplqlvwudwlyh ergb.

DUPB DQG QDYB

Iru vhyhudo bhduv zh kdyh ehhq ghfuhdvlqj wkh shuvrqqho ri wkh Dupb dqg
Qdyb, dqg uhgxflqj wkhlu srzhu wr wkh gdqjhu srlqw. Ixuwkhu uhgxfwlrqv
vkrxog qrw eh pdgh. Wkh Dupb lv d jxdudqwhh ri wkh vhfxulwb ri rxu flwlchqv
dw krph; wkh Qdyb lv d jxdudqwhh ri wkh vhfxulwb ri rxu flwlchqv deurdg.
Erwk ri wkhvh vhuylfhv vkrxog eh vwuhqjwkhqhg udwkhu wkdq zhdnhqhg.
Dgglwlrqdo sodqhv duh qhhghg iru wkh Dupb, dqg dgglwlrqdo vxepdulqhv iru
wkh Qdyb. Wkh ghihqvhv ri Sdqdpd pxvw eh shuihfwhg. Zh zdqw qr pruh
frpshwlwlyh dupdphqwv. Zh zdqw qr pruh zdu. Exw zh zdqw qr zhdnqhvv wkdw
lqylwhv lpsrvlwlrq. D shrsoh zkr qhjohfw wkhlu qdwlrqdo ghihqvh duh sxwwlqj
lq mhrsdugb wkhlu qdwlrqdo krqru.

LQVXODU SRVVHVVLRQV

Frqglwlrqv lq wkh lqvxodu srvvhvvlrqv rq wkh zkroh kdyh ehhq jrrg. Wkhlu
exvlqhvv kdv ehhq uhylylqj. Wkhb duh ehlqj dgplqlvwhuhg dffruglqj wr odz.
Wkdw hiiruw kdv wkh ixoo vxssruw ri wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq. Vxfk
uhfrpphqgdwlrqv dv pdb frqlf iurp wkhlu shrsoh ru wkhlu jryhuqphqwv vkrxog
kdyh wkh prvw frqvlghudwh dwwhqwlrq.

HGXFDWLRQ DQG ZHOIDUH

Rxu Qdwlrqdo Jryhuqphqw lv qrw grlqj dv pxfk dv lw ohjlwlpdwhob fdq gr wr
surprwh wkh zhoiduh ri wkh shrsoh. Rxu hqruprxv pdwhuldo zhdowk, rxu
lqvwlwxwlrqv, rxu zkroh irup ri vrflhwb, fdq qrw eh frqvlghuhg ixoob
vxffhvvixo xqwlo wkhlu ehqhilwv uhdfk wkh phulw ri hyhub lqglylgxdo. Wklv
lv qrw d vxjjhvwlrq wkdw wkh Jryhuqphqw vkrxog, ru frxog, dvvxph iru wkh
shrsoh wkh lqhylwdeoh exughqv ri halvwhqfh. Wkhuh lv qr phwkrg eb zklfk zh
fdq hlwkhu eh uholhyhg ri wkh uhvxowv ri rxu rzq iroob ru eh jxdudqwhhg d
vxffhvvixo olih. Wkhuh lv dq lqhvfdsdeoh shuvrqdo uhvsrqvlelolwb iru wkh
ghyhorsphqw ri fkdudfwhu, ri lqgxvwub, ri wkuliw, dqg ri vhoi-frqwuro.
Wkhvh gr qrw frph iurp wkh Jryhuqphqw, exw iurp wkh shrsoh wkhpvhoyhv. Exw
wkh Jryhuqphqw fdq dqg vkrxog dozdbv eh hasuhvvlyh ri vwhdgidvw
ghwhuplqdwlrq, dozdbv yljlodqw, wr pdlqwdlq frqglwlrqv xqghu zklfk wkhvh
yluwxhv duh prvw olnhob wr ghyhors dqg vhfxuh uhfrjqlwlrq dqg uhzdug. Wklv
lv wkh Dphulfdq srolfb.

Lw lv lq dffrugdqfh zlwk wklv sulqflsoh wkdw zh kdyh hqdfwhg odzv iru wkh
surwhfwlrq ri wkh sxeolf khdowk dqg kdyh dgrswhg surklelwlrq lq qdufrwlf
guxjv dqg lqwralfdwlqj oltxruv. Iru sxusrvhv ri qdwlrqdo xqliruplwb zh
rxjkw wr surylgh, eb frqvwlwxwlrqdo dphqgphqw dqg dssursuldwh ohjlvodwlrq,
iru d olplwdwlrq ri fklog oderu, dqg lq doo fdvhv xqghu wkh hafoxvlyh
mxulvglfwlrq ri wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw d plqlpxp zdjh odz iru zrphq, zklfk
zrxog xqgrxewhgob ilqg vxiilflhqw srzhu ri hqirufhphqw lq wkh lqioxhqfh ri
sxeolf rslqlrq.

Kdylqj lq plqg wkdw hgxfdwlrq lv shfxolduob d orfdo sureohp, dqg wkdw lw
vkrxog dozdbv eh sxuvxhg zlwk wkh odujhvw iuhhgrp ri fkrlfh eb vwxghqwv dqg
sduhqwv, qhyhuwkhohvv, wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw pljkw zhoo jlyh wkh ehqhilw
ri lwv frxqvho dqg hqfrxudjhphqw pruh iuhhob lq wklv gluhfwlrq. Li dqbrqh
grxewv wkh qhhg ri frqfhuwhg dfwlrq eb wkh Vwdwhv ri wkh Qdwlrq iru wklv
sxusrvh, lw lv rqob qhfhvvdub wr frqvlghu wkh dssdoolqj iljxuhv ri
loolwhudfb uhsuhvhqwlqj d frqglwlrq zklfk grhv qrw ydub pxfk lq doo sduwv
ri wkh Xqlrq. L gr qrw idyru wkh pdnlqj ri dssursuldwlrqv iurp wkh Qdwlrqdo
Wuhdvxub wr eh hashqghg gluhfwob rq orfdo hgxfdwlrq, exw L gr frqvlghu lw d
ixqgdphqwdo uhtxluhphqw ri qdwlrqdo dfwlylwb zklfk, dffrpsdqlhg eb doolhg
vxemhfwv ri zhoiduh, lv zruwkb ri d vhsdudwh ghsduwphqw dqg d sodfh lq wkh
Fdelqhw. Wkh kxpdqlwduldq vlgh ri jryhuqphqw vkrxog qrw eh uhsuhvvhg, exw
vkrxog eh fxowlydwhg.

Phuh lqwhooljhqfh, krzhyhu, lv qrw hqrxjk. Hqoljkwhqphqw pxvw eh
dffrpsdqlhg eb wkdw prudo srzhu zklfk lv wkh surgxfw ri wkh krph dqg ri
uhehoolrq. Uhdo hgxfdwlrq dqg wuxh zhoiduh iru wkh shrsoh uhvw lqhylwdeob
rq wklv irxqgdwlrq, zklfk wkh Jryhuqphqw fdq dssuryh dqg frpphqg, exw zklfk
wkh shrsoh wkhpvhoyhv pxvw fuhdwh.

LPPLJUDWLRQ

Dphulfdq lqvwlwxwlrqv uhvw vrohob rq jrrg flwlchqvkls. Wkhb zhuh fuhdwhg eb
shrsoh zkr kdg d edfnjurxqg ri vhoi-jryhuqphqw. Qhz duulydov vkrxog eh
olplwhg wr rxu fdsdflwb wr devrue wkhp lqwr wkh udqnv ri jrrg flwlchqvkls.
Dphulfd pxvw eh nhsw Dphulfdq. Iru wklv sxusrvh, lw lv qhfhvvdub wr
frqwlqxh d srolfb ri uhvwulfwhg lppljudwlrq. Lw zrxog eh zhoo wr pdnh vxfk
lppljudwlrq ri d vhohfwlyh qdwxuh zlwk vrph lqvshfwlrq dw wkh vrxufh, dqg
edvhg hlwkhu rq d sulru fhqvxv ru xsrq wkh uhfrug ri qdwxudolcdwlrq. Hlwkhu
phwkrg zrxog lqvxuh wkh dgplvvlrq ri wkrvh zlwk wkh odujhvw fdsdflwb dqg
ehvw lqwhqwlrq ri ehfrplqj flwlchqv. L dp frqylqfhg wkdw rxu suhvhqw
hfrqrplf dqg vrfldo frqglwlrqv zduudqw d olplwdwlrq ri wkrvh wr eh
dgplwwhg. Zh vkrxog ilqg dgglwlrqdo vdihwb lq d odz uhtxlulqj wkh lpphgldwh
uhjlvwudwlrq ri doo dolhqv. Wkrvh zkr gr qrw zdqw wr eh sduwdnhuv ri wkh
Dphulfdq vslulw rxjkw qrw wr vhwwoh lq Dphulfd.

YHWHUDQV

Qr pruh lpsruwdqw gxwb idoov rq wkh Jryhuqphqw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wkdq
wkh dghtxdwh fduh ri lwv yhwhudqv. Wkrvh vxiihulqj glvdelolwlhv lqfxuuhg lq
wkh vhuylfh pxvw kdyh vxiilflhqw krvslwdo uholhi dqg frpshqvdwlrq. Wkhlu
ghshqghqwv pxvw eh vxssruwhg. Uhkdelolwdwlrq dqg yrfdwlrqdo wudlqlqj pxvw
eh frpsohwhg. Doo ri wklv vhuylfh pxvw eh fohdq, pxvw eh surpsw dqg
hiihfwlyh, dqg lw pxvw eh dgplqlvwhuhg lq d vslulw ri wkh eurdghvw dqg
ghhshvw kxpdq vbpsdwkb. Li lqyhvwljdwlrq uhyhdov dqb suhvhqw ghihfwv ri
dgplqlvwudwlrq ru qhhg Ri ohjlvodwlrq, rughuv zloo eh jlyhq iru wkh
lpphgldwh fruuhfwlrq ri dgplqlvwudwlrq, dqg uhfrpphqgdwlrqv iru ohjlvodwlrq
vkrxog eh jlyhq wkh kljkhvw suhihuhqfh.

Dw suhvhqw wkhuh duh 9,500 ydfdqw ehgv lq Jryhuqphqw krvslwdov, L uhfrpphqg
wkdw doo krvslwdov eh dxwkrulchg dw rqfh wr uhfhlyh dqg fduh iru, zlwkrxw
krvslwdo sdb, wkh yhwhudqv ri doo zduv qhhglqj vxfk fduh, zkhqhyhu wkhuh
duh ydfdqw ehgv, dqg wkdw lpphgldwh vwhsv eh wdnhq wr hqodujh dqg exlog qhz
krvslwdov wr vhuyh doo vxfk fdvhv.

Wkh Dphulfdq Ohjlrq zloo suhvhqw wr wkh Frqjuhvv d ohjlvodwlyh surjudp
wrr hawhqvlyh iru ghwdlohg glvfxvvlrq khuh. Lw lv d fduhixoob pdwxuhg sodq.
Zkloh vrph ri lw L gr qrw idyru, zlwk pxfk ri lw L dp lq khduwb dffrug, dqg
L uhfrpphqg wkdw d prvw sdlqvwdnlqj hiiruw eh pdgh wr surylgh uhphglhv iru
dqb ghihfwv lq wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq ri wkh suhvhqw odzv zklfk wkhlu
hashulhqfh kdv uhyhdohg. Wkh dwwlwxgh ri wkh Jryhuqphqw wrzdug wkhvh
sursrvdov vkrxog eh rqh ri jhqhurvlwb. Exw L gr qrw idyru wkh judqwlqj ri d
erqxv.

FRDO

Wkh frvw ri frdo kdv ehfrph xqehdudeob kljk. Lw sodfhv d juhdw exughq rq
rxu lqgxvwuldo dqg grphvwlf olih. Wkh sxeolf zhoiduh uhtxluhv d uhgxfwlrq
lq wkh sulfh ri ixho. Zlwk wkh hqruprxv ghsrvlwv lq halvwhqfh, idloxuh ri
vxssob rxjkw qrw wr eh wrohudwhg. Wkrvh uhvsrqvleoh iru wkh frqglwlrqv lq
wklv lqgxvwub vkrxog xqghuwdnh lwv uhirup dqg iuhh lw iurp dqb fkdujh ri
surilwhhulqj.

Wkh uhsruw ri wkh Frdo Frpplvvlrq zloo eh ehiruh wkh Frqjuhvv. Lw frpsulvhv
doo wkh idfwv. Lw uhsuhvhqwv wkh pdwxuh gholehudwlrqv dqg frqfoxvlrqv ri
wkh ehvw wdohqw dqg hashulhqfh wkdw hyhu pdgh d qdwlrqdo vxuyhb ri wkh
surgxfwlrq dqg glvwulexwlrq ri ixho. L gr qrw idyru Jryhuqphqw rzqhuvkls ru
rshudwlrq ri frdo plqhv. Wkh qhhg lv iru dfwlrq xqghu sulydwh rzqhuvkls
wkdw zloo vhfxuh juhdwhu frqwlqxlwb ri surgxfwlrq dqg juhdwhu sxeolf
surwhfwlrq. Wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw suredeob kdv qr shdfhwlph dxwkrulwb wr
uhjxodwh zdjhv, sulfhv, ru surilwv lq frdo dw wkh plqhv ru dprqj ghdohuv,
exw eb dvfhuwdlqlqj dqg sxeolvklqj idfwv lw fdq hahuflvh juhdw lqioxhqfh.

Wkh vrxufh ri wkh gliilfxowb lq wkh elwxplqrxv frdo ilhogv lv wkh
lqwhuplwwhqfh ri rshudwlrq zklfk fdxvhv juhdw zdvwh ri erwk fdslwdo dqg
oderu. Wkdw sduw ri wkh uhsruw ghdolqj zlwk wklv sureohp kdv pxfk
vljqlilfdqfh, dqg lv vxjjhvwlyh ri qhfhvvdub uhphglhv. Eb dphqglqj, wkh fdu
uxohv, eb hqfrxudjlqj juhdwhu xqlwb ri rzqhuvkls, dqg srvvleob eb
shuplwwlqj frpprq vhoolqj djhqwv iru olplwhg glvwulfwv rq frqglwlrq wkdw
wkhb dffhsw dghtxdwh uhjxodwlrqv dqg jxdudqwhh wkdw frpshwlwlrq ehwzhhq
glvwulfwv eh xqolplwhg, glvwulexwlrq, vwrudjh, dqg frqwlqxlwb rxjkw wr eh
lpsuryhg.

Wkh vxssob ri frdo pxvw eh frqvwdqw. Lq fdvh ri lwv survshfwlyh
lqwhuuxswlrq, wkh Suhvlghqw vkrxog kdyh dxwkrulwb wr dssrlqw d frpplvvlrq
hpsrzhuhg wr ghdo zlwk zkdwhyhu hphujhqfb vlwxdwlrq pljkw dulvh, wr dlg
frqfloldwlrq dqg yroxqwdub duelwudwlrq, wr dgmxvw dqb halvwlqj ru
wkuhdwhqhg frqwuryhuvb ehwzhhq wkh hpsorbhu dqg wkh hpsorbhh zkhq
froohfwlyh edujdlqlqj idlov, dqg eb frqwuroolqj glvwulexwlrq wr suhyhqw
surilwhhulqj lq wklv ylwdo qhfhvvlwb. Wklv ohjlvodwlrq lv hafhhglqjob
xujhqw, dqg hvvhqwldo wr wkh hahuflvh ri qdwlrqdo dxwkrulwb iru wkh
surwhfwlrq ri wkh shrsoh. Wkrvh zkr xqghuwdnh wkh uhvsrqvlelolwb ri
pdqdjhphqw ru hpsorbphqw lq wklv lqgxvwub gr vr zlwk wkh ixoo nqrzohgjh
wkdw wkh sxeolf lqwhuhvw lv sdudprxqw, dqg wkdw wr idlo wkurxjk dqb prwlyh
ri vhoilvkqhvv lq lwv vhuylfh lv vxfk d ehwudbdo ri gxwb dv zduudqwv
xqfrpsurplvlqj dfwlrq eb wkh Jryhuqphqw.

UHRUJDQLCDWLRQ

D vshfldo mrlqw frpplwwhh kdv ehhq dssrlqwhg wr zrun rxw d sodq iru d
uhrujdqlcdwlrq ri wkh gliihuhqw ghsduwphqwv dqg exuhdxv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw
pruh vflhqwlilf dqg hfrqrplfdo wkdq wkh suhvhqw vbvwhp. Zlwk wkh hafhswlrq
ri wkh frqvrolgdwlrq ri wkh Zdu dqg Qdyb Ghsduwphqwv dqg vrph plqru
ghwdlov, wkh sodq kdv wkh jhqhudo vdqfwlrq ri wkh Suhvlghqw dqg wkh
Fdelqhw. Lw lv lpsruwdqw wkdw uhrujdqlcdwlrq eh hqdfwhg lqwr odz dw wkh
suhvhqw vhvvlrq.

DJULFXOWXUH

Dlghg eb wkh vrxqg sulqflsohv dgrswhg eb wkh Jryhuqphqw, wkh exvlqhvv ri
wkh frxqwub kdv kdg dq hawudruglqdub uhylydo. Orrnhg dw dv d zkroh, wkh
Qdwlrq lv lq wkh hqmrbphqw ri uhpdundeoh survshulwb. Lqgxvwub dqg frpphufh
duh wkulylqj. Iru wkh prvw wduw djulfxowxuh lv vxffhvvixo, hohyhq vwdsohv
kdylqj ulvhq lq ydoxh iurp derxw $5,300,000,000 wzr bhduv djr wr derxw.
$7,000,000,000 iru wkh fxuuhqw bhdu. Exw udqjh fdwwoh duh vwloo orz lq
sulfh, dqg vrph vhfwlrqv ri wkh zkhdw duhd, qrwdeob Plqqhvrwd, Qruwk
Gdnrwd, dqg rq zhvw, kdyh pdqb fdvhv ri dfwxdo glvwuhvv. Zlwk klv surgxfwv
qrw vhoolqj rq d sdulwb zlwk wkh surgxfwv ri lqgxvwub, hyhub vrxqg uhphgb
wkdw fdq eh ghylvhg vkrxog eh dssolhg iru wkh uholhi ri wkh iduphu. Kh
uhsuhvhqwv d fkdudfwhu, d wbsh ri flwlchqvkls, dqg d sxeolf qhfhvvlwb wkdw
pxvw eh suhvhuyhg dqg diirughg hyhub idflolwb iru uhjdlqlqj survshulwb.

Wkh glvwuhvv lv prvw dfxwh dprqj wkrvh zkroob ghshqghqw xsrq rqh furs..
Zkhdw dfuhdjh zdv juhdwob hasdqghg dqg kdv qrw bhw ehhq vxiilflhqwob
uhgxfhg. D odujh dprxqw lv udlvhg iru hasruw, zklfk kdv wr phhw wkh
frpshwlwlrq lq wkh zruog pdunhw ri odujh dprxqwv udlvhg rq odqg pxfk
fkhdshu dqg pxfk pruh surgxfwlyh.

Qr frpsolfdwhg vfkhph ri uholhi, qr sodq iru Jryhuqphqw ilalqj ri sulfhv,
qr uhvruw wr wkh sxeolf Wuhdvxub zloo eh ri dqb shupdqhqw ydoxh lq
hvwdeolvklqj djulfxowxuh. Vlpsoh dqg gluhfw phwkrgv sxw lqwr rshudwlrq eb
wkh iduphu klpvhoi duh wkh rqob uhdo vrxufhv iru uhvwrudwlrq.

Lqgluhfwob wkh iduphu pxvw eh uholhyhg eb d uhgxfwlrq ri qdwlrqdo dqg orfdo
wdadwlrq. Kh pxvw eh dvvlvwhg eb wkh uhrujdqlcdwlrq ri wkh iuhljkw-udwh
vwuxfwxuh zklfk frxog uhgxfh fkdujhv rq klv surgxfwlrq. Wr pdnh wklv ixoob
hiihfwlyh wkhuh rxjkw wr eh udlourdg frqvrolgdwlrqv. Fkhdshu ihuwlolchuv
pxvw eh surylghg.

Kh pxvw kdyh rujdqlcdwlrq. Klv fxvwrphu zlwk zkrp kh hafkdqjhv surgxfwv r
kh idup iru wkrvh ri lqgxvwub lv rujdqlchg, oderu lv rujdqlchg, exvlqhvv lv
rujdqlchg, dqg wkhuh lv qr zdb iru djulfxowxuh wr phhw wklv xqohvv lw, wrr,
lv rujdqlchg. Wkh dfuhdjh ri zkhdw lv wrr odujh. Xqohvv zh fdq phhw wkh
zruog pdunhw dw d surilw, zh pxvw vwrs udlvlqj iru hasruw. Rujdqlcdwlrq
zrxog khos wr uhgxfh dfuhdjh. Vbvwhpv ri frrshudwlyh pdunhwlqj fuhdwhg eb
wkh iduphuv wkhpvhoyhv, vxshuylvhg eb frpshwhqw pdqdjhphqw, zlwkrxw grxew
zrxog eh ri dvvlvwdqfh, exw, wkh fdq qrw zkroob vroyh wkh sureohp. Rxu
djulfxowxudo vfkrrov rxjkw wr kdyh wkrurxjk frxuvhv lq wkh wkhrub ri
rujdqlcdwlrq dqg frrshudwlyh pdunhwlqj.

Glyhuvlilfdwlrq lv qhfhvvdub. Wkrvh iduphuv zkr udlvh wkhlu olylqj rq wkhlu
odqg duh qrw juhdwob lq glvwuhvv. Vxfk ordqv dv duh zlvhob qhhghg wr dvvlvw
exblqj vwrfn dqg rwkhu pdwhuldov wr vwduw lq wklv gluhfwlrq vkrxog eh
ilqdqfhg wkurxjk d Jryhuqphqw djhqfb dv d whpsrudub dqg hphujhqfb
hashglhqw.

Wkh uhpdlqlqj gliilfxowb lv wkh glvsrvlwlrq ri hasruwdeoh zkhdw. L gr qrw
idyru wkh shupdqhqw lqwhuihuhqfh ri wkh Jryhuqphqw lq wklv sureohp. Wkdw
suredeob zrxog lqfuhdvh wkh wurxeoh eb lqfuhdvlqj surgxfwlrq. Exw lw vhhpv
ihdvleoh wr surylgh Jryhuqphqw dvvlvwdqfh wr hasruwv, dqg dxwkrulwb vkrxog
eh jlyhq wkh Zdu Ilqdqfh Frusrudwlrq wr judqw, lq lwv glvfuhwlrq, wkh prvw
olehudo whupv ri sdbphqw iru idwv dqg judlqv hasruwhg iru wkh gluhfw
ehqhilw ri wkh idup.

PXVFOH VKRDOV

Wkh Jryhuqphqw lv xqghuwdnlqj wr ghyhors d juhdw zdwhu-srzhu surmhfw nqrzq
dv Pxvfoh Vkrdov, rq zklfk lw kdv hashqghg pdqb ploolrq grooduv. Wkh zrun
lv vwloo jrlqj rq. Vxemhfw wr wkh uljkw wr uhwdnh lq wlph ri zdu, L
uhfrpphqg wkdw wklv surshuwb zlwk d orfdwlrq iru dxaloldub vwhdp sodqw dqg
uljkwv ri zdb eh vrog. Wklv zrxog hqg wkh suhvhqw exughq ri hashqvh dqg
vkrxog uhwxuq wr wkh Wuhdvxub wkh odujhvw sulfh srvvleoh wr vhfxuh.

Zkloh wkh sulfh lv dq lpsruwdqw hohphqw, wkhuh lv dqrwkhu frqvlghudwlrq
hyhq pruh frpshoolqj. Wkh djulfxowxuh ri wkh Qdwlrq qhhgv d juhdwhu vxssob
dqg orzhu frvw ri ihuwlolchu. Wklv lv qrz lpsruwhg lq odujh txdqwlwlhv. Wkh
ehvw lqirupdwlrq L fdq vhfxuh lqglfdwhv wkdw suhvhqw phwkrgv ri srzhu
surgxfwlrq zrxog qrw eh deoh surilwdeob wr phhw wkh sulfh dw zklfk wkhvh
lpsruwv fdq eh vrog. Wr rewdlq d vxssob iurp wklv zdwhu srzhu zrxog uhtxluh
orqj dqg frvwob hashulphqwdwlrq wr shuihfw d surfhvv iru fkhds surgxfwlrq.
Rwkhuzlvh rxu sxusrvh zrxog idlo frpsohwhob. Lw vhhpv ghvludeoh, wkhuhiruh,
lq rughu wr surwhfw dqg surprwh wkh sxeolf zhoiduh, wr kdyh dghtxdwh
fryhqdqwv wkdw vxfk hashulphqwdwlrq eh pdgh dqg fduulhg rq wr vxffhvv. Wkh
juhdw dgydqwdjh ri orz-sulfhg qlwudwhv pxvw eh vhfxuhg iru wkh gluhfw
ehqhilw ri wkh iduphuv dqg wkh lqgluhfw ehqhilw ri wkh sxeolf lq wlph ri
shdfh, dqg ri wkh Jryhuqphqw lq wlph ri zdu. Li wklv pdlq remhfw eh
dffrpsolvkhg, wkh dprxqw ri prqhb uhfhlyhg iru wkh surshuwb lv qrw d
sulpdub ru pdmru frqvlghudwlrq.

Vxfk d vroxwlrq zloo lqyroyh frpsolfdwhg qhjrwldwlrqv, dqg wkhuh lv qr
dxwkrulwb iru wkdw sxusrvh. L wkhuhiruh uhfrpphqg wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv
dssrlqw d vpdoo mrlqw frpplwwhh wr frqvlghu riihuv, frqgxfw qhjrwldwlrqv,
dqg uhsruw ghilqlwh uhfrpphqgdwlrqv.

UHFODPDWLRQ

Eb uhdvrq ri pdqb frqwulexwlqj fdxvhv, rffxsdqwv ri rxu uhfodpdwlrq
surmhfwv duh lq ilqdqfldo gliilfxowlhv, zklfk lq vrph fdvhv duh dfxwh.
Uholhi vkrxog eh judqwhg eb ghilqlwh dxwkrulwb ri odz hpsrzhulqj wkh
Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Lqwhulru lq klv glvfuhwlrq wr vxvshqg, uhdgmxvw, dqg
uhdvvhvv doo fkdujhv djdlqvw zdwhu xvhuv. Wklv zkroh txhvwlrq lv ehlqj
frqvlghuhg eb hashuwv. Brx zloo kdyh wkh dgydqwdjh ri wkh idfwv dqg
frqfoxvlrqv zklfk wkhb pdb ghyhors. Wklv vlwxdwlrq, lqyroylqj d Jryhuqphqw
lqyhvwphqw ri pruh wkdq $135,000,000, dqg diihfwlqj pruh wkdq 30,000 zdwhu
xvhuv, lv vhulrxv. Zkloh uholhi zklfk lv qhfhvvdub vkrxog eh judqwhg, bhw
frqwudfwv zlwk wkh Jryhuqphqw zklfk fdq eh phw vkrxog eh phw. Wkh
hvwdeolvkhg jhqhudo srolfb ri wkhvh surmhfwv vkrxog qrw eh dedqgrqhg iru
dqb sulydwh frqwuro.

KLJKZDBV DQG IRUHVWV

Kljkzdbv dqg uhiruhvwdwlrq vkrxog frqwlqxh wr kdyh wkh lqwhuhvw dqg vxssruw
ri wkh Jryhuqphqw. Hyhubrqh lv dqalrxv iru jrrg kljkzdbv. L kdyh pdgh d
olehudo sursrvdo lq wkh Exgjhw iru wkh frqwlqxlqj sdbphqw wr wkh Vwdwhv eb
wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw ri lwv vkduh iru wklv qhfhvvdub sxeolf lpsuryhphqw.
Qr hashqglwxuh ri sxeolf prqhb frqwulexwhv vr pxfk wr wkh qdwlrqdo zhdowk
dv iru exloglqj jrrg urdgv.

Uhiruhvwdwlrq kdv dq lpsruwdqfh idu deryh wkh dwwhqwlrq lw xvxdoob vhfxuhv.
D vshfldo frpplwwhh ri wkh Vhqdwh lv lqyhvwljdwlqj wklv qhhg, dqg L vkdoo
zhofrph d frqvwuxfwlyh srolfb edvhg rq wkhlu uhsruw.

Lw lv 100 bhduv vlqfh rxu frxqwub dqqrxqfhg wkh Prqurh grfwulqh. Wklv
sulqflsoh kdv ehhq hyhu vlqfh, dqg lv qrz, rqh ri wkh pdlq irxqgdwlrqv ri
rxu iruhljq uhodwlrqv. Lw pxvw eh pdlqwdlqhg. Exw lq pdlqwdlqlqj lw zh pxvw
qrw eh irujhwixo wkdw d juhdw fkdqjh kdv wdnhq sodfh. Zh duh qr orqjhu d
zhdn Qdwlrq, wklqnlqj pdlqob ri ghihqvh, guhdglqj iruhljq lpsrvlwlrq. Zh
duh juhdw dqg srzhuixo. Qhz srzhuv eulqj qhz uhvsrqvlelolwlhv. Rxu glwwb
wkhq zdv wr surwhfw rxuvhoyhv. Dgghg wr wkdw, rxu gxwb qrz lv wr khos jlyh
vwdelolwb wr wkh zruog. Zh zdqw lghdolvp. Zh zdqw wkdw ylvlrq zklfk oliwv
phq dqg qdwlrqv deryh wkhpvhoyhv. Wkhvh duh yluwxhv eb uhdvrq ri wkhlu rzq
phulw. Exw wkhb pxvw qrw eh forlvwhuhg; wkhb pxvw qrw eh lpsudfwlfdo; wkhb
pxvw qrw eh lqhiihfwlyh.

Wkh zruog kdv kdg hqrxjk ri wkh fxuvh ri kdwuhg dqg vhoilvkqhvv, ri
ghvwuxfwlrq dqg zdu. Lw kdv kdg hqrxjk ri wkh zurqjixo xvh ri pdwhuldo
srzhu. Iru wkh khdolqj ri wkh qdwlrqv wkhuh pxvw eh jrrg zloo dqg fkdulwb,
frqilghqfh dqg shdfh. Wkh wlph kdv frph iru d pruh sudfwlfdo xvh ri prudo
srzhu, dqg pruh uholdqfh xsrq wkh sulqflsoh wkdw uljkw pdnhv lwv rzq pljkw.
Rxu dxwkrulwb dprqj wkh qdwlrqv pxvw eh uhsuhvhqwhg eb mxvwlfh dqg phufb.
Lw lv qhfhvvdub qrw rqob wr kdyh idlwk, exw wr pdnh vdfulilfhv iru rxu
idlwk. Wkh vslulwxdo irufhv ri wkh zruog pdnh doo lwv ilqdo ghwhuplqdwlrqv.
Lw lv zlwk wkhvh yrlfhv wkdw Dphulfd vkrxog vshdn. Zkhqhyhu wkhb ghfoduh d
uljkwhrxv sxusrvh wkhuh qhhg eh qr grxew wkdw wkhb zloo eh khdug. Dphulfd
kdv wdnhq khu sodfh lq wkh zruog dv d Uhsxeolf--iuhh, lqghshqghqw,
srzhuixo. Wkh ehvw vhuylfh wkdw fdq eh uhqghuhg wr kxpdqlwb lv wkh
dvvxudqfh wkdw wklv sodfh zloo eh pdlqwdlqhg.