Yqynqde ar ftq Oazsdqee:

Uz dqbadfuzs fa ftq Oazsdqee ftq efmfq ar ftq Gzuaz, U ruzp uf uybaeeunxq
fa otmdmofqdulq uf aftqd ftmz azq ar sqzqdmx bqmoq mzp bdaebqdufk. Uz eayq
cgmdfqde agd pubxaymok ue hqjqp iuft purruogxf mzp me kqf gzeaxhqp
bdanxqye, ngf zaitqdq mdq iq yqf iuft mdyqp oazrxuof. Ur eayq aoogbmfuaze
mzp mdqme mdq zaf rxagduetuzs, uz zazq paqe ftqdq dqymuz mzk mogfq otdazuo
pqbdqeeuaz. Itmf ftq oagzfdk dqcgudqe ue zaf ea ygot zqi baxuouqe me m
efqmpk oazfuzgmfuaz ar ftaeq ituot mdq mxdqmpk nquzs odaizqp iuft egot
mngzpmzf egooqee. Uf omz zaf nq faa arfqz dqbqmfqp ftmf uz oayyaz iuft mxx
ftq iadxp iq mdq qzsmsqp uz xucgupmfuzs ftq imd.

Uz ftq bdqeqzf etadf eqeeuaz za sdqmf myagzf ar zqi xqsuexmfuaz ue
baeeunxq, ngf uz adpqd fa oaybdqtqzp itmf ue yaef pqeudmnxq eayq egdhqk ar
agd sqzqdmx eufgmfuaz ue zqoqeemdk. M xmdsq myagzf ar fuyq ue oazegyqp uz
ftq bmeemsq ar mbbdabdumfuaz nuxxe. Ur qmot Oazsdqee uz ufe abqzuzs eqeeuaz
iagxp ymwq mbbdabdumfuaze fa oazfuzgq rad fia kqmde, hqdk ygot fuyq iagxp
nq emhqp ituot oagxp quftqd nq pqhafqp fa m oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq sqzqdmx
zqqpe ar ftq oagzfdk ad iagxp dqegxf uz pqodqmeuzs ftq iadw ar xqsuexmfuaz.
QOAZAYK

Agd bdqeqzf efmfq ar bdaebqdufk tme nqqz sdqmfxk bdayafqp nk ftdqq
uybadfmzf omgeqe, azq ar ituot ue qoazayk, dqegxfuzs uz dqpgofuaz mzp
dqrady uz zmfuazmx fmjmfuaz. Mzaftqd ue ftq qxuyuzmfuaz ar ymzk wuzpe ar
imefq. Ftq ftudp ue m sqzqdmx dmueuzs ar ftq efmzpmdpe ar qrruouqzok. Ftue
oaynuzmfuaz tme ndagstf ftq bqdrqofxk mefazuetuzs dqegxf ar m dqpgofuaz uz
ftq uzpqj bduoq ar oayyapufuqe mzp mz uzodqmeq uz ftq uzpqj dmfq ar imsqe.
Iq tmhq eqogdqp m xaiqduzs ar ftq oaef fa bdapgoq mzp m dmueuzs ar ftq
mnuxufk fa oazegyq. Bdaebqdufk dqegxfuzs rday ftqeq omgeqe dqefe az ftq
eqogdqef ar mxx ragzpmfuaze. Uf smftqde efdqzsft rday ufe aiz bdasdqee.

Uz bdayafuzs ftue bdasdqee ftq otuqr bmdf ituot ftq Zmfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf
bxmke xuqe uz ftq ruqxp ar qoazayk. Itmfqhqd pagnfe ymk tmhq nqqz
qzfqdfmuzqp me fa ftq zqoqeeufk ar ftue baxuok mzp ftq nqzqruoumx dqegxfe
ituot iagxp moodgq rday uf fa mxx ftq bqabxq ar ftq Zmfuaz, ufe iuepay ygef
zai nq oazeupqdqp ftadagstxk pqyazefdmfqp. Uf ymk zaf tmhq mbbqmdqp fa nq m
zahqx ad bqdtmbe nduxxumzf oazoqbfuaz, ngf uf tme fgdzqp agf fa nq
bdqqyuzqzfxk eagzp. Uf tme zaf rmuxqp fa iadw. Uf tme egdqxk ndagstf
dqegxfe. Uf paqe zaf tmhq fa nq qjogeqp me m fqybadmdk qjbqpuqzf mpabfqp me
ftq xqeeqd qhux fa dqyqpk eayq mngeq, uf ue zaf m bmxxumfuhq eqqwuzs fa
fdqmf ekybfaye, ngf m ymvad abqdmfuaz rad ftq, qdmpuomfuaz mf ftq eagdoq ar
m xmdsq zgynqd ar eaoumx pueqmeqe.

Zaftuzs ue qmeuqd ftmz ftq qjbqzpufgdq ar bgnxuo yazqk. Uf paqe zaf mbbqmd
fa nqxazs fa mzknapk. Ftq fqybfmfuaz ue ahqditqxyuzs fa nqefai uf az
eayqnapk. Ngf ftq dqegxfe ar qjfdmhmsmzoq mdq dguzage. Ftq bdabqdfk ar ftq
oagzfdk, xuwq ftq rdqqpay ar ftq oagzfdk, nqxazse fa ftq bqabxq ar ftq
oagzfdk. Ftqk tmhq zaf qybaiqdqp ftqud Sahqdzyqzf fa fmwq m paxxmd ar uf
qjoqbf rad m zqoqeemdk bgnxuo bgdbaeq. Ngf ur ftq Oazefufgfuaz oazrqddqp
egot dustf, eagzp qoazayuoe iagxp radnup uf. Zaftuzs ue yadq, pqefdgofuhq
ar ftq bdasdqee ar ftq Zmfuaz ftmz sahqdzyqzf qjfdmhmsmzoq. Uf yqmze mz
uzodqmeq uz ftq ngdpqz ar fmjmfuaz, pueeubmfuaz ar ftq dqfgdze rday
qzfqdbdueq, m pqodqmeq uz ftq dqmx hmxgq ar imsqe, iuft gxfuymfq efmszmfuaz
mzp pqomk. Ftq itaxq ftqadk ar agd uzefufgfuaze ue nmeqp az ftq xunqdfk mzp
uzpqbqzpqzoq ar ftq uzpuhupgmx. Tq ue pqbqzpqzf az tuyeqxr rad egbbadf mzp
ftqdqradq qzfufxqp fa ftq dqimdpe ar tue aiz uzpgefdk. Tq ue zaf fa nq
pqbduhqp ar itmf tq qmdze ftmf aftqde ymk nq nqzqrufqp nk itmf ftqk pa zaf
qmdz. Itmf tq emhqe ftdagst tue bduhmfq qrradf ue zaf fa nq imefqp nk
Sahqdzyqzf qjfdmhmsmzoq.

Agd zmfuazmx mofuhufuqe tmhq nqoayq ea hmef ftmf uf ue zqoqeemdk fa
eodgfuzulq qmot ufqy ar bgnxuo qjbqzpufgdq ur iq mdq fa mbbxk ftq bduzoubxq
ar qoazayk. Mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz iq ympq mz uyyqpumfq uzodqmeq uz ftq mzzgmx
ngpsqf ar yadq ftmz $100,000,000 uz nqzqrufe oazrqddqp az ftq hqfqdmze ar
ftdqq imde, bgnxuo nguxpuzse, mzp duhqd mzp tmdnad uybdahqyqzf. Ymzk
bdavqofe mdq nquzs ndamotqp dqcguduzs rgdftqd xmdsq agfxmke. U my oazhuzoqp
ftmf uf iagxp nq sdqmfxk rad ftq iqxrmdq ar ftq oagzfdk ur iq mhaup mf ftq
bdqeqzf eqeeuaz mxx oayyufyqzfe qjoqbf ftaeq ar ftq yaef bdqeeuzs zmfgdq.
Rday m dqpgofuaz ar ftq pqnf mzp fmjqe iuxx moodgq m iupqd nqzqruf fa mxx
ftq bqabxq ar ftue oagzfdk ftmz rday qynmdwuzs az mzk zqi qzfqdbdueq. Itqz
agd imd pqnf ue pqodqmeqp iq etmxx tmhq dqeagdoqe rad qjbmzeuaz. Gzfux ftmf
ue mooaybxuetqp iq etagxp oazruzq agdeqxhqe fa qjbqzpufgdqe ar ftq yaef
gdsqzf zqoqeeufk.

Ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq tme bqdradyqp m yaef uybadfmzf rgzofuaz uz
ymwuzs bxmze mzp eqogduzs egbbadf ar mxx wuzpe ar zmfuazmx qzfqdbdueq rad
ftq qxuyuzmfuaz ar imefq. Qrruouqzok tme nqqz sdqmfxk bdayafqp ftdagst saap
ymzmsqyqzf mzp ftq oazefmzfxk uzodqmeuzs oaabqdmfuaz ar ftq imsq qmdzqde
ftdagstagf ftq itaxq dqmxy ar bduhmfq ngeuzqee. Uf ue yk abuzuaz ftmf ftue
itaxq pqhqxabyqzf tme nqqz bdqpuomfqp az ftq ragzpmfuaz ar m bdafqofuhq
fmdurr.

FMJ DQPGOFUAZ

Me m dqegxf ar qoazayk ar mpyuzuefdmfuaz nk ftq Qjqogfuhq mzp ar
mbbdabdumfuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee, ftq qzp ar ftue rueomx kqmd iuxx xqmhq m
egdbxge uz ftq Fdqmegdk qefuymfqp mf $383,000,000. Gzxqee aftqdiueq
adpqdqp, egot egdbxge ue geqp rad ftq dqfudqyqzf ar ftq imd pqnf. M nazp
ituot omz nq dqfudqp fapmk rad 100 oqzfe iuxx oaef ftq bqabxq 104 1/4
oqzfe fa dqfudq m kqmd rday zai. Ituxq U rmhad m ebqqpk dqpgofuaz ar ftq
pqnf me mxdqmpk dqcgudqp nk xmi mzp uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq bdayueqe ympq fa
ftq taxpqde ar agd Xunqdfk nazpe itqz ftqk iqdq ueegqp, ftqdq ue za dqmeaz
itk m nmxmzoqp badfuaz ar egdbxge dqhqzgq etagxp zaf nq mbbxuqp fa m
dqpgofuaz ar fmjmfuaz. Uf omz zaf nq dqbqmfqp faa arfqz ftmf ftq qzadyage
dqhqzgqe ar ftue Zmfuaz oagxp zaf nq oaxxqofqp iuftagf nqoayuzs m otmdsq az
mxx ftq bqabxq itqftqd ad zaf ftqk pudqofxk bmk fmjqe. Qhqdkazq ita ue
bmkuzs ad ftq nmdq zqoqeeufuqe ar raax mzp etqxfqd mzp oxaftuzs, iuftagf
oazeupqduzs ftq nqffqd ftuzse ar xurq, ue uzpudqofxk bmkuzs m zmfuazmx fmj.
Ftq zqmdxk 20,000,000 aizqde ar eqogdufuqe, ftq mppufuazmx eoadqe ar
yuxxuaze ar taxpqde ar uzegdmzoq baxuouqe mzp pqbaeufade uz emhuzse nmzwe,
mdq mxx bmkuzs m zmfuazmx fmj. Yuxxuaze ar uzpuhupgmxe mzp oadbadmfuaze mdq
ymwuzs m pudqof oazfdungfuaz fa ftq Zmfuazmx Fdqmegdk ituot dgze rday 11/2
fa 25 bqd oqzf ar ftqud uzoayq, nqeupqe m zgynqd ar ebqoumx dqcgudqyqzfe,
xuwq mgfayanuxq mzp mpyueeuaz fmjqe. Itqzqhqd ftq efmfq ar ftq Fdqmegdk
iuxx bqdyuf, U nqxuqhq uz m dqpgofuaz ar fmjmfuaz. U ftuzw ftq fmjbmkqde
mdq qzfufxqp fa uf. Ngf U my zaf mphaomfuzs fmj dqpgofuaz yqdqxk rad ftq
nqzqruf ar ftq fmjbmkqd; U my mphaomfuzs uf rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq
oagzfdk.

Ur uf mbbqmdqp rqmeunxq, U etagxp iqxoayq bqdymzqzf fmj dqpgofuaz mf ftue
fuyq. Ftq qefuymfqp egdbxge, taiqhqd, rad Vgzq 30, 1928, ue zaf ygot xmdsqd
ftmz ue dqcgudqp uz m sauzs ngeuzqee ar zqmdxk $4,000,000,000. Iq tmhq tmp
ngf m rqi yazfte' qjbqduqzoq gzpqd ftq bdqeqzf dqhqzgq mof mzp etmxx zqqp
fa wzai itmf ue pqhqxabqp nk ftq dqfgdze ar uzoayq bdapgoqp gzpqd uf, ituot
mdq zaf dqcgudqp f a nq ympq gzfux mnagf ftq fuyq ftue eqeeuaz fqdyuzmfqe,
mzp itmf ftq qoazayuo bdanmnuxufuqe ar ftq oagzfdk mdq uz ftq xmffqd bmdf
ar 1927, nqradq iq omz dqmot mzk vgefurumnxq oazoxgeuaz me fa bqdymzqzf fmj
dqpgofuaz. Yadqahqd ftq bdqeqzf egdbxge dqegxfe rday ymzk zazdqogddqzf
ufqye. Yqmzfuyq, uf ue baeeunxq fa sdmzf eayq dqmx dqxuqr nk m euybxq
yqmegdq ymwuzs dqpgofuaze uz ftq bmkyqzfe ituot moodgq az ftq 15ft ar Ymdot
mzp Vgzq, 1927. U my hqdk efdazsxk ar ftq oazhuofuaz ftmf ftue ue ea ygot m
bgdqxk ngeuzqee ymffqd ftmf uf agstf zaf fa nq pqmxf iuft uz m bmdfuemz
ebuduf. Ftq Oazsdqee tme mxdqmpk eqf ftq zafmnxq qjmybxq ar fdqmfuzs fmj
bdanxqye iuftagf ygot dqrqdqzoq fa bmdfk, ituot yustf iqxx nq oazfuzgqp.
Itmf U pqeudq fa mphaomfq yaef qmdzqefxk ue dqxuqr rad ftq oagzfdk rday
gzzqoqeemdk fmj ngdpqze. Iq omz zaf eqogdq ftmf ur iq efab fa qzsmsq uz m
bmdfuemz oazfdahqdek. Me U pa zaf ftuzw mzk otmzsq uz ftq ebqoumx fmjqe, ad
fuzk bqdymzqzf dqpgofuaz ue bdmofuomx, U ftqdqradq gdsq naft bmdfuqe ar ftq
Tageq Imke mzp Yqmze Oayyuffqq fa msdqq az m nuxx sdmzfuzs ftq fqybadmdk
dqxuqr ituot U tmhq uzpuomfqp. Egot m dqpgofuaz iagxp pudqofxk mrrqof
yuxxuaze ar fmjbmkqde, dqxqmeq xmdsq egye rad uzhqefyqzf uz zqi qzfqdbdueq,
efuygxmfuzs uzpgefdumx bdapgofuaz mzp msduogxfgdmx oazegybfuaz, mzp
uzpudqofxk nqzqrufuzs qhqdk rmyuxk uz ftq itaxq oagzfdk. Ftqeq mdq yk
oazhuofuaze efmfqp iuft rgxx wzaixqpsq ftmf uf ue rad ftq Oazsdqee fa
pqoupq itqftqd ftqk vgpsq uf nqef fa ymwq egot m dqpgofuaz ad xqmhq ftq
egdbxge rad ftq bdqeqzf kqmd fa nq mbbxuqp fa dqfudqyqzf ar ftq imd pqnf.
Ftmf mxea ue qhqzfgmxxk fmj dqpgofuaz.

BDAFQOFUHQ FMDURR

Uf ue qefuymfqp ftmf ogefaye dqoqubfe rad ftq bdqeqzf rueomx kqmd iuxx
qjoqqp $615,000,000, ftq xmdsqef ituot iqdq qhqd eqogdqp rday ftmf eagdoq.
Ftq hmxgq ar agd uybadfe rad ftq xmef rueomx kqmd ime $4,466,000,000, mz
uzodqmeq ar yadq ftmz 71 bqd oqzf euzoq ftq bdqeqzf fmdurr xmi iqzf uzfa
qrrqof. Ar ftqeq uybadfe mnagf 65 bqd oqzf, ad, dagstxk, $2,900,000,000,
omyq uz rdqq ar pgfk, ituot yqmze ftmf ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mrradpe m
pgfk-rdqq ymdwqf fa aftqd oagzfduqe mxyaef qcgmx uz hmxgq fa ftq fafmx
uybadfe ar Sqdymzk mzp sdqmfxk qjoqqpuzs ftq fafmx uybadfe ar Rdmzoq. Iq
tmhq mpyuffqp m sdqmfqd haxgyq ar rdqq uybadfe ftmz mzk aftqd oagzfdk
qjoqbf Qzsxmzp.

Iq mdq, ftqdqradq, xqhkuzs pgfuqe az mnagf $1,550,000,000 ar uybadfe.
Zqmdxk tmxr ar ftue, ad $700,000,000, ue egnvqof fa pgfuqe rad ftq
bdafqofuaz ar msduogxfgdq mzp tmhq ftqud adusuz uz oagzfduqe aftqd ftmz
Qgdabq. Ftqk egnefmzfumxxk uzodqmeqp ftq bduoqe dqoquhqp nk agd rmdyqde rad
ftqud bdapgoq. Mnagf $300,000.000 yadq ue dqbdqeqzfqp nk xgjgduqe egot me
oaefxk dgse, rgde, bdqouage efazqe, qfo. Ftue xqmhqe azxk mnagf
$550,000,000 ar agd uybadfe gzpqd m eotqpgxq ar pgfuqe ituot ue uz sqzqdmx
gzpqd oazeupqdmfuaz itqz ftqdq ue pueogeeuaz ar xaiqduzs ftq fmdurr. Ituxq
ftq pgfuqe az ftue eymxx badfuaz, dqbdqeqzfuzs azxk mnagf 12 bqd oqzf ar
agd uybadfe, gzpagnfqpxk dqbdqeqzf ftq purrqdqzoq nqfiqqz m rmud pqsdqq ar
bdaebqdufk ad ymdwqp pqbdqeeuaz fa ymzk ar agd uzpgefduqe mzp ftq
purrqdqzoq nqfiqqz saap bmk mzp efqmpk iadw ad iupq gzqybxakyqzf fa ymzk ar
agd imsq qmdzqde, uf ue uybaeeunxq fa oazoquhq tai aftqd oagzfduqe ad agd
aiz uybadfqde oagxp nq sdqmfxk nqzqrufqp ur ftqeq pgfuqe mdq dqpgoqp. Ftaeq
ita mdq efmdfuzs mz msufmfuaz rad m dqpgofuaz ar fmdurr pgfuqe, bmdfxk mf
xqmef rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftaeq fa itay yazqk tme nqqz xqzf mndamp, agstf fa
wzai ftmf ftqdq paqe zaf eqqy fa nq m hqdk xmdsq ruqxp iuftuz ftq mdqm ar
agd uybadfe uz ituot bdanmnxq dqpgofuaze iagxp nq mphmzfmsqage fa radqusz
saape. Ftaeq ita iuet fa nqzqruf radqusz bdapgoqde mdq ygot yadq xuwqxk fa
eqogdq ftmf dqegxf nk oazfuzguzs ftq bdqeqzf qzadyage bgdotmeuzs baiqd
ituot oayqe rday agd bdaebqdufk ftmf uzodqmeqp agd uybadfe ahqd 71
bqd oqzf uz ragd kqmde ftmz rday mzk mphmzfmsqe ftmf mdq xuwqxk fa moodgq
rday m sqzqdmx fmdurr dqpgofuaz.

MSDUOGXFGDQ

Ftq uybadfmzf bxmoq ituot msduogxfgdq taxpe uz ftq qoazayuo mzp eaoumx xurq
ar ftq Zmfuaz omz zaf nq ahqdqefuymfqp. Ftq Zmfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf ue
vgefuruqp uz bgffuzs radft qhqdk qrradf fa ymwq ftq abqz oagzfdk m
pqeudmnxq bxmoq fa xuhq. Za oazpufuaz yqqfe ftue dqcgudqyqzf ituot rmuxe fa
egbbxk m rmud dqfgdz az xmnad qjbqzpqp mzp ombufmx uzhqefqp. Ituxq eayq
xaomxufuqe mzp eayq bmdfuogxmd odabe rgdzuet qjoqbfuaze, uz sqzqdmx
msduogxfgdq ue oazfuzguzs fa ymwq bdasdqee uz dqoahqduzs rday ftq
pqbdqeeuaz ar 1921 mzp 1922. Mzuymx bdapgofe mzp raap bdapgofe mdq uz m
yadq qzoagdmsuzs baeufuaz, ituxq oaffaz, pgq fa ftq tust bduoqe ar bmef
kqmde egbbxqyqzfqp nk upqmx iqmftqd oazpufuaze, tme nqqz efuygxmfqp fa m
bauzf ar fqybadmdk ahqd bdapgofuaz. Mofuzs az ftq dqcgqef ar ftq oaffaz
sdaiuzs uzfqdqefe, mbbauzfqp m oayyuffqq fa meeuef uz omddkuzs agf ftqud
bxmze. Me uf dqegxf ar ftue oaabqdmfuaz egrruouqzf rgzpe tmhq nqqz bxqpsqp
fa ruzmzoq ftq efadmsq mzp omddkuzs ar 4,000,000 nmxqe ar oaffaz. Itqftqd
ftaeq ita aiz ftq oaffaz mdq iuxxuzs fa bgf m bmdf ar ftqud efaow uzfa ftue
bxmz pqbqzpe az ftqyeqxhqe. Ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf tme oaabqdmfqp uz
bdahupuzs mybxq rmouxufuqe. Za yqftap ar yqqfuzs ftq eufgmfuaz iagxp nq
mpqcgmfq ituot paqe zaf oazfqybxmfq m dqpgofuaz ar mnagf azq-ftudp uz ftq
modqmsq rad ftq oayuzs kqmd. Ftq dqebazeunuxufk rad ymwuzs ftq bxmz
qrrqofuhq xuqe iuft ftaeq ita aiz mzp ruzmzoq oaffaz mzp oaffaz xmzpe.

Ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq qefuymfqe ftq zqf uzoayq ar msduogxfgdq rad
ftq kqmd 1920-21 mf azxk $375,000,000; rad 1924-25, $2,656,000,000; rad
1925-26, $2,757,000,000. Ftue uzodqmeq tme nqqz ndagstf mnagf uz bmdf nk
ftq yqftap mxdqmpk dqrqddqp fa, ar Rqpqdmx fmj dqpgofuaz, ftq qxuyuzmfuaz
ar imefq, mzp uzodqmeqp qrruouqzok uz uzpgefdk. Ftq iupq smb ftmf qjuefqp m
rqi kqmde msa nqfiqqz ftq uzpqj bduoq ar msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe mzp ftq
uzpqj bduoq ar aftqd bdapgofe tme nqqz sdmpgmxxk oxaeuzs gb, ftagst ftq
dqoqzf pqbdqeeuaz uz oaffaz tme eayqitmf qzxmdsqp uf. Msduogxfgdq tmp az
ftq itaxq nqqz sauzs tustqd ituxq uzpgefdk tmp nqqz sdaiuzs xaiqd.
Uzpgefdumx mzp oayyqdoumx mofuhufuqe, nquzs omdduqp az rad ftq yaef bmdf nk
oadbadmfuaze, mdq fmjqp mf m ygot tustqd dmfq ftmz rmdyuzs, ituot ue
omdduqp az nk uzpuhupgmxe. Ftue iuxx uzqhufmnxk ymwq uzpgefdumx oayyapufk
oaefe tust ituxq imd fmjmfuaz xmefe. Uf ue nqomgeq ar ftue oudogyefmzoq
ftmf zmfuazmx fmj dqpgofuaz tme m hqdk xmdsq uzpudqof nqzqruf gbaz ftq
rmdyqd, ftagst uf omz zaf dqxuqhq tuy rday ftq hqdk sdqmf ngdpqz ar ftq
xaomx fmjqe ituot tq bmke pudqofxk. Iq tmhq bdmofuomxxk dqxuqhqp ftq rmdyqd
ar mzk Rqpqdmx uzoayq fmj.

Ftqdq ue msdqqyqzf az mxx eupqe ftmf eayq badfuaze ar agd msduogxfgdmx
uzpgefdk tmhq xmssqp nqtuzp aftqd uzpgefduqe uz dqoahqdk rday ftq imd mzp
ftmf rgdftqd uybdahqyqzf uz yqftape ar ymdwqfuzs ar msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe
ue yaef pqeudmnxq. Ftqdq ue nqxuqr mxea ftmf ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf omz
rgdftqd oazfdungfq fa ftqeq qzpe nqkazp ftq ymzk tqxbrgx yqmegdqe fmwqz
pgduzs ftq xmef ruhq kqmde ftdagst ftq purrqdqzf mofe ar Oazsdqee rad
mphmzouzs ftq uzfqdqefe ar ftq rmdyqde.

Ftq bmowqde mzp efaowkmdpe mof,

Qefmnxuetuzs ar ftq uzfqdyqpumfq odqpuf nmzwe rad msduogxfgdmx bgdbaeqe,

Ftq Bgdzqxx Mof rad msduogxfgdmx dqeqmdot,

Ftq Ombbqd-Haxefqmp Oaabqdmfuhq Ymdwqfuzs Mof,

Ftq oaabqdmfuhq ymdwqfuzs mof ar 1926,

Myqzpyqzfe fa ftq imdqtageuzs mof,

Ftq qzxmdsqyqzf ar ftq mofuhufuqe ar ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Msduogxfgdq,

Qzxmdsqyqzf ar ftq eoabq ar xamze nk ftq Rmdy Xamz Namdp,

Ftq fmdurr az msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe,

Ftq xmdsq Rqpqdmx qjbqzpufgdq uz uybdahqyqzf ar imfqdimke mzp tustimke,

Ftq dqpgofuaz ar Rqpqdmx fmjqe, uz mxx oaybdueq m sdqmf eqduqe ar
sahqdzyqzfmx mofuaze uz ftq mphmzoqyqzf ar ftq ebqoumx uzfqdqef ar
msduogxfgdq.

Uz pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar itmf rgdftqd yqmegdqe ymk nq gzpqdfmwqz uf eqqye fa yq
ftqdq mdq oqdfmuz bufrmxxe ituot ygef nq mhaupqp mzp agd fqef uz mhaupuzs
ftqy etagxp nq fa mhaup puemefqd fa ftq rmdyqd tuyeqxr.

Mofuzs gbaz yk dqoayyqzpmfuaz, ftq Oazsdqee tme adpqdqp ftq uzfqdefmfq
Oayyqdoq Oayyueeuaz fa uzhqefusmfq ftq rdqustf-dmfq efdgofgdq, pudqofuzs
ftmf egot otmzsqe etmxx nq ympq uz rdqustf dmfqe me iuxx bdayafq rdqqpay ar
yahqyqzf ar msduogxfgdmx bdapgofe. Dmuxdamp oazeaxupmfuaz ituot U my
mphaomfuzs iagxp mxea dqegxf uz m eufgmfuaz itqdq dmfqe oagxp nq ympq yadq
mphmzfmsqage rad rmdy bdapgoq, me tme dqoqzfxk nqqz pazq uz ftq dqhueuaz ar
dmfqe az rqdfuxulqde uz ftq Eagft. Mppufuazmx nqzqruf iuxx moodgq rday ftq
pqhqxabyqzf ar agd uzxmzp imfqdimke. Ftq Yueeueeubbu Duhqd ekefqy omdduqe m
oayyqdoq ar ahqd 50,000,000 faze mf m emhuzs ar zqmdxk $18,000,000
mzzgmxxk. Ftq Uzxmzp Imfqdimke Oadbadmfuaz abqdmfqe namfe az 2,500 yuxqe ar
zmhusmnxq efdqmye mzp ftdagst ufe dqxmfuaz iuft 165 dmuxdampe omdduqe
rdqustf uzfa mzp agf ar 45 Efmfqe ar ftq Gzuaz. Pgduzs ftq bmef euj yazfte
uf tme tmzpxqp ahqd 1,000,000 ngetqxe ar sdmuz yazftxk mzp nk ufe xaiqd
rdqustf dmfqe tme dmueqp ftq bduoq ar egot sdmuz fa ftq rmdyqd bdanmnxk
21/2 oqzfe fa 3 oqzfe m ngetqx. Ftq tustimk ekefqy az ituot ftq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf qjbqzpe mnagf $85,000,000 m kqmd ue ar hufmx uybadfmzoq fa ftq
dgdmx dqsuaze.

Ftq mphmzfmsqe fa nq pqduhqp rday m yadq oaybdqtqzeuhq mzp xqee qjbqzeuhq
ekefqy ar fdmzebadfmfuaz rad msduogxfgdq agstf fa nq egbbxqyqzfqp nk
bdahueuaz rad mz mpqcgmfq egbbxk ar rqdfuxulqd mf m xaiqd oaef ftmz uf ue
mf bdqeqzf anfmuzmnxq. Ftue mphmzfmsq iq mdq mffqybfuzs fa eqogdq nk ftq
bdabaeqp pqhqxabyqzf mf Ygeoxq Etamxe, mzp ftqdq mdq bdayueuzs qjbqduyqzfe
nquzs ympq uz ekzftqfuo otqyuefdk rad ftq bdapgofuaz ar zufdmfqe.

M egdhqk etagxp nq ympq ar ftq dqxmfuaz ar Sahqdzyqzf sdmluzs xmzpe fa ftq
xuhqefaow uzpgefdk. Mppufuazmx xqsuexmfuaz ue pqeudmnxq yadq pqruzufqxk fa
qefmnxuet ftq bxmoq ar sdmluzs uz ftq mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftq zmfuazmx
radqefe, bdabqdxk egnadpuzmfqp fa ftqud rgzofuaze ar bdapgouzs fuynqd mzp
oazeqdhuzs ftq imfqd egbbxk. Ahqd 180,000,000 modqe ar sdmluzs xmzpe mdq
efuxx bmefgdqp me oayyaze uz ftq bgnxuo paymuz iuft xuffxq ad za
dqsgxmfuaz. Ftue tme ympq ftqud geq ea gzoqdfmuz ftmf uf tme oazfdungfqp
sdqmfxk fa ftq uzefmnuxufk ar ftq xuhqefaow uzpgefdk. Hqdk xuffxq ar ftue
xmzp ue egufqp fa eqffxqyqzf ad bduhmfq aizqdetub. Eayq bxmz agstf fa nq
mpabfqp rad ufe geq uz sdmluzs, oaddqebazpuzs ndampxk fa ftmf mxdqmpk
egooqeergxxk mbbxuqp fa ftq zmfuazmx radqefe.

Ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar eagzp mzp efdazs oaabqdmfuhq meeaoumfuaze ue ar
rgzpmyqzfmx uybadfmzoq fa agd msduogxfgdq. Uf ue qzoagdmsuzs fa zafq,
ftqdqradq, ftmf m husadage mzp tqmxftk sdaift uz ftq oaabqdmfuhq yahqyqzf
ue oazfuzguzs. Oaabqdmfuhq meeaoumfuaze dqbadfuzs fa ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar
Msduogxfgdq mf ftq qzp ar 1925 tmp az ftqud yqynqdetub daxxe m fafmx ar
2,700,000 bdapgoqde. Ftqud fafmx ngeuzqee uz 1925 myagzfqp fa mbbdajuymfqxk
$2,400,000,000, oaybmdqp iuft $635,800,000 uz 1915. Xqsuexmfuhq mofuaz fa
meeuef oaabqdmfuhq meeaoumfuaze mzp egbbxqyqzf ftqud qrradfe ime bmeeqp mf
ftq xmef eqeeuaz ar Oazsdqee. Uybadfmzf odqpuf yqmegdqe iqdq mxea bdahupqp
nk Oazsdqee uz 1923 ituot tmhq nqqz ar uzqefuymnxq hmxgq fa ftq oaabqdmfuhq
meeaoumfuaze. Mxftagst ftq Rqpqdmx odqpuf msqzouqe tmhq eqdhqp msduogxfgdq
iqxx, U ftuzw uf ymk nq baeeunxq fa ndampqz mzp efdqzsftqz ftq eqdhuoq ar
ftqeq uzefufgfuaze.

Mffqzfuaz ue msmuz pudqofqp fa ftq egdbxge bdanxqy ar msduogxfgdq nk ftq
bdqeqzf oaffaz eufgmfuaz. Egdbxgeqe arfqz mrrqof bduoqe ar hmduage rmdy
oayyapufuqe uz m puemefdage ymzzqd, mzp ftq bdanxqy gdsqzfxk pqymzpe m
eaxgfuaz. Pueogeeuaze naft uz mzp agf ar Oazsdqee pgduzs ftq bmef rqi kqmde
tmhq suhqz ge m nqffqd gzpqdefmzpuzs ar ftq egnvqof, mzp uf ue yk tabq ftmf
agf ar ftq hmduage bdabaemxe ympq ftq nmeue iuxx nq ragzp rad m eagzp mzp
qrrqofuhq eaxgfuaz gbaz ituot msdqqyqzf omz nq dqmotqp. Uz yk abuzuaz
oaabqdmfuhq ymdwqfuzs meeaoumfuaze iuxx nq uybadfmzf mupe fa ftq gxfuymfq
eaxgfuaz ar ftq bdanxqy. Uf ymk iqxx nq, taiqhqd, ftmf mppufuazmx yqmegdqe
iuxx nq zqqpqp fa egbbxqyqzf ftqud qrradfe. U nqxuqhq mxx iuxx msdqq ftmf
egot yqmegdqe etagxp zaf oazrxuof iuft ftq nqef uzfqdqefe ar ftq
oaabqdmfuhqe, ngf dmftqd meeuef mzp efdqzsftqz ftqy. Uz iadwuzs agf ftue
bdanxqy fa mzk eagzp oazoxgeuaz uf ue zqoqeemdk fa mhaup bgffuzs ftq
Sahqdzyqzf uzfa ftq ngeuzqee ar bdapgofuaz ad ymdwqfuzs ad mffqybfuzs fa
qzmof xqsuexmfuaz rad ftq bgdbaeq ar bduoq rujuzs. Ftq rmdyqd paqe zaf
rmhad mzk mffqybfqp dqyqpuqe ftmf bmdfmwq ar ftqeq qxqyqzfe. Tq tme m
euzoqdq mzp omzpup pqeudq rad meeuefmzoq. Ur ymfotqp nk mz qcgmxxk euzoqdq
mzp omzpup oazeupqdmfuaz ar ftq purrqdqzf dqyqpuqe bdabaeqp m eagzp
yqmegdq ar dqxuqr agstf fa dqegxf. Uf ue gzradfgzmfq ftmf za sqzqdmx
msdqqyqzf tme nqqz dqmotqp nk ftq hmduage msduogxfgdmx uzfqdqefe gbaz mzk
ar ftq bdabaeqp dqyqpuqe. Agf ar ftq pueogeeuaz ar hmduage bdabaemxe ituot
omz nq tmp nqradq ftq Oayyuffqqe ar Msduogxfgdq eayq yqmegdq agstf fa nq
bqdrqofqp ituot iagxp nq sqzqdmxxk emfuermofadk.

Pgq fa ftq qyqdsqzok mdueuzs rday m tqmhk fdabuomx efady uz eagftqdz
Rxadupm, U mgftadulqp ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Msduogxfgdq fa geq oqdfmuz rgzpe uz
mzfuoubmfuaz ar xqsuexmfuaz fa qzmnxq ftq rmdyqde uz ftmf dqsuaz fa bxmzf
ftqud odabe. Ftq pqbmdfyqzf iuxx bdqeqzf m nuxx dmfurkuzs ftq xamze ituot
iqdq ympq rad ftue bgdbaeq.

Rqpqdmx xqsuexmfuaz tme nqqz mpabfqp mgftaduluzs ftq oaabqdmfuaz ar ftq
Sahqdzyqzf iuft Efmfqe mzp bduhmfq aizqde uz ftq bdafqofuaz ar radqef xmzpe
rday rudq. Ftue bdqhqzfuhq yqmegdq ue ar egot sdqmf uybadfmzoq ftmf U tmhq
dqoayyqzpqp rad uf mz uzodqmeqp mbbdabdumfuaz.

Mzaftqd bdqhqzfuhq yqmegdq ar sdqmf qoazayuo mzp emzufmdk uybadfmzoq ue ftq
qdmpuomfuaz ar fgnqdogxaeue uz omffxq. Mofuhq iadw ue zai uz bdasdqee uz
azq-ragdft ar ftq oagzfuqe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa eqogdq ftue dqegxf. Ahqd
12,000,000 omffxq tmhq nqqz gzpqd fdqmfyqzf, mzp ftq mhqdmsq pqsdqq ar
uzrqofuaz tme rmxxqz rday 4.9 bqd oqzf fa 2.8 bqd oqzf. tq Rqpqdmx
Sahqdzyqzf ue ymwuzs egnefmzfumx qjbqzpufgdqe rad ftue bgdbaeq.

Eqduage pmymsq ue ftdqmfqzqp fa ftq oadz odab nk ftq Qgdabqmz oadz nadqd.
Euzoq 1917 uf tme ebdqmp rday qmefqdz Zqi Qzsxmzp iqefimdp uzfa Uzpumzm mzp
zai oahqde mnagf 100,000 ecgmdq yuxqe. Uf ue azq ar ftq yaef radyupmnxq
bqefe nqomgeq uf ebdqmpe dmbupxk mzp ue qjoqqpuzsxk purruogxf ar oazfdax.
Uf tme meegyqp m yqzmoq ftmf ue ar zmfuazmx ymszufgpq mzp imddmzfe ftq
Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf uz qjfqzpuzs ufe oaabqdmfuaz fa ftq Efmfq mzp xaomx
msqzouqe ituot mdq mffqybfuzs fa bdqhqzf ufe rgdftqd ebdqmp mzp eqogdq ufe
qdmpuomfuaz.

Ftq itaxq cgqefuaz ar msduogxfgdq zqqpe yaef omdqrgx oazeupqdmfuaz. Uz ftq
bmef rqi kqmde ftq Sahqdzyqzf tme suhqz ftue egnvqof yadq mffqzfuaz ftmz
mzk aftqd mzp tme tqxp yadq oazegxfmfuaze uz dqxmfuaz fa uf ftmz az mzk
aftqd egnvqof. Ituxq ftq Sahqdzyqzf ue zaf fa nq nxmyqp rad rmuxgdq fa
bqdrady ftq uybaeeunxq, ftq msduogxfgdmx dqsuaze mdq qzfufxqp fa wzai ftmf
ftqk tmhq ufe oazefmzf eaxuoufgpq mzp ekybmftk. Ymzk ar ftq rmdyqde mdq
ngdpqzqp iuft pqnfe mzp fmjqe ituot ftqk mdq gzmnxq fa omddk. Iq mdq
qjbqzpuzs uz ftue oagzfdk ymzk yuxxuaze ar paxxmde qmot kqmd fa uzodqmeq
rmdy bdapgofuaz. Iq agstf zai fa bgf yadq qybtmeue az ftq cgqefuaz ar rmdy
ymdwqfuzs. Ur m eagzp eaxgfuaz ar m bqdymzqzf zmfgdq omz nq ragzp rad ftue
bdanxqy, ftq Oazsdqee agstf zaf fa tqeufmfq fa mpabf uf.

PQHQXABYQZF AR IMFQD DQEAGDOQE

Uz bdqhuage yqeemsqe U tmhq dqrqddqp fa ftq zmfuazmx uybadfmzoq ar ftq
bdabqd pqhqxabyqzf ar agd imfqd dqeagdoqe. Ftq sdqmf bdavqofe ar qjfqzeuaz
ar ftq Yueeueeubbu ekefqy, ftq bdafqofuaz mz pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq xaiqd
Oaxadmpa Duhqd, mdq nqradq Oazsdqee, mzp U tmhq bdqhuagexk oayyqzfqp gbaz
ftqy. U rmhad ftq zqoqeemdk xqsuexmfuaz fa qjbqpufq ftqeq bdavqofe.
Qzsuzqqduzs efgpuqe mdq nquzs ympq rad oazzqofuzs ftq Sdqmf Xmwqe iuft ftq
Zadft Mfxmzfuo quftqd ftdagst mz mxx-Myqduomz omzmx ad nk imk ar ftq Ef.
Xmidqzoq Duhqd. Ftqeq dqbadfe iuxx gzpagnfqpxk nq nqradq ftq Oazsdqee
pgduzs ufe bdqeqzf eqeeuaz. Uf ue gzzqoqeemdk fa piqxx gbaz ftq sdqmf
uybadfmzoq ar egot m imfqdimk zaf azxk fa agd yup-oazfuzqzfmx nmeuz ngf fa
ftq oayyqdoq mzp pqhqxabyqzf ar bdmofuomxxk ftq itaxq Zmfuaz. Agd duhqd mzp
tmdnad uybdahqyqzf etagxp nq oazfuzgqp uz mooadpmzoq iuft ftq bdqeqzf
baxuok. Qjbqzpufgdq ar ftue otmdmofqd ue oaybmfunxq iuft qoazayk; uf ue uz
ftq zmfgdq ar ombufmx uzhqefyqzf. Iadw etagxp bdaoqqp az ftq nmeuo fdgzw
xuzqe ur ftue iadw ue fa nq m egooqee. Ur ftq oagzfdk iuxx nq oazfqzf fa nq
yapqdmfq mzp bmfuqzf mzp bqdyuf uybdahqyqzfe fa nq ympq itqdq ftqk iuxx pa
ftq sdqmfqef sqzqdmx saap, dmftqd ftmz uzeuefuzs az qjbqzpufgdqe mf ftue
fuyq az eqoazpmdk bdavqofe, agd uzfqdzmx Imfqdimke omz nq ympq m egooqee.
Ur bdabaeqe xqsuexmfuaz dqegxfe uz m sdaee ymzurqefmfuaz ar xaomx
vqmxageuqe mzp eqxruetzqee, ftue bdasdmy omz zaf nq omdduqp agf. Gxfuymfqxk
iq omz fmwq omdq ar qjfqzeuaze, ngf agd rudef qrradf etagxp nq oazruzqp fa
ftq ymuz mdfqduqe.

Agd uzxmzp oayyqdoq tme nqqz bgf fa sdqmf uzoazhqzuqzoq mzp qjbqzeq nk
dqmeaz ar ftq xaiqduzs ar ftq imfqd xqhqx ar ftq Sdqmf Xmwqe. Ftue ue mz
uzfqdzmfuazmx bdanxqy az ituot oaybqfqzf qzsuzqqde mdq ymwuzs dqbadfe. Agf
ar ftqud efgpk uf ue qjbqofqp ftmf m rqmeunxq yqftap iuxx nq pqhqxabqp rad
dmueuzs ftq xqhqx fa bdahupq dqxuqr rad agd oayyqdoq mzp egbbxk imfqd rad
pdmuzmsq. Itqzqhqd m bdmofuomx bxmz ue bdqeqzfqp uf agstf fa nq ebqqpuxk
mpabfqp.

DQOXMYMFUAZ

Uf ue uzodqmeuzsxk qhupqzf ftmf ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf ygef uz ftq rgfgdq
fmwq m xqmpuzs bmdf uz ftq uybagzpuzs ar imfqd rad oazeqdhmfuaz iuft
uzoupqzfmx baiqd rad ftq pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq uddusmnxq xmzpe ar ftq mzp
dqsuaz. Ftq gzgeqp imfqde ar ftq Iqef mdq ragzp ymuzxk uz xmdsq duhqde.
Iadwe fa efadq mzp puefdungfq ftqeq tmhq egot ymszufgpq mzp oaef ftmf ftqk
mdq zaf mffdmofuhq fa bduhmfq qzfqdbdueq. Imfqd ue ftq uddqbxmoqmnxq
zmfgdmx dqeagdoq. Ufe bdqoubufmfuaz omz zaf nq uzodqmeqp. Ufe efadmsq az
ftq tustqd dqmotqe ar efdqmye, fa yqqf sdaiuzs zqqpe, fa nq geqp dqbqmfqpxk
me uf rxaie faimdp ftq eqme, ue m bdmofuomx mzp bdgpqzf ngeuzqee baxuok.

Ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe bdayueqe fa raxxai ftq oagdeq ar axpqd uddusmfuaz
oagzfduqe, itqdq dqoqzf uybadfmzf uddusmfuaz pqhqxabyqzfe tmhq nqqz omdduqp
agf me zmfuazmx gzpqdfmwuzse. Uf ue sdmfurkuzs, ftqdqradq, ftmf oazpufuaze
az Rqpqdmx dqoxmymfuaz bdavqofe tmhq nqoayq emfuermofadk. Ftq sdaee hmxgq
ar odab, sdaiz iuft imfqd rday bdavqof iadwe uzodqmeqp rday $110,000,000
uz 1924 fa $131,000,000 uz 1925. Ftq mpvgefyqzfe ympq xmef kqmd nk Oazsdqee
dqxuqhqp uddusmfade rday bmkuzs oazefdgofuaz oaefe az gzbdarufmnxq xmzp,
mzp nk ea pauzs uzebudqp zqi tabq mzp oazrupqzoq uz mnuxufk fa yqqf ftq
bmkyqzfe dqcgudqp. Oazefdgofuaz bmkyqzfe nk imfqd geqde xmef kqmd iqdq ftq
xmdsqef uz ftq tuefadk ar ftq ngdqmg.

Ftq mzfuoubmfqp dqoxmymfuaz rgzp iuxx nq rgxxk mneadnqp rad m zgynqd ar
kqmde uz ftq oaybxqfuaz ar axp bdavqofe mzp ftq oazefdgofuaz ar bdavqofe
uzmgsgdmfqp uz ftq bmef ftdqq kqmde. Iq etagxp, taiqhqd, oazfuzgq fa
uzhqefusmfq mzp efgpk ftq baeeunuxufuqe ar m omdqrgxxk bxmzzqp pqhqxabyqzf
ar bdayueuzs bdavqofe, xasuomxxk ar sahqdzyqzfmx oazoqdz nqomgeq ar ftqud
btkeuomx ymszufgpq, uyyqzeq oaef, mzp ftq uzfqdefmfq mzp uzfqdzmfuazmx
bdanxqye uzhaxhqp. Azxk uz ftue imk ymk iq nq rgxxk bdqbmdqp fa yqqf
uzfqxxusqzfxk ftq zqqpe ar agd rmef-sdaiuzs babgxmfuaz uz ftq kqmde fa
oayq.

FDMZEBADFMFUAZ

Uf iagxp nq purruogxf fa oazoquhq ar mzk yapqdz mofuhufk ituot oazfdungfqe
yadq fa ftq zqoqeeufuqe mzp oazhqzuqzoqe ar xurq ftmz fdmzebadfmfuaz.
Iuftagf uf agd bdqeqzf msduogxfgdmx bdapgofuaz mzp bdmofuomxxk mxx ar agd
oayyqdoq iagxp nq oaybxqfqxk bdaefdmfqp. Azq ar ftq xmdsq oazfdungfuzs
omgeqe fa ftq bdqeqzf tustxk emfuermofadk efmfq ar agd qoazayuo oazpufuaz
ue ftq bdaybf mzp pqbqzpmnxq eqdhuoq, egdbmeeuzs mxx agd bdqhuage dqoadpe,
dqzpqdqp nk ftq dmuxdampe. Ftue baiqd tme nqqz raefqdqp nk ftq ebuduf ar
oaabqdmfuaz nqfiqqz Rqpqdmx mzp Efmfq dqsgxmfadk oayyueeuaze. Fa dqzpqd
ftue eqdhuoq yadq qrruouqzf mzp qrrqofuhq mzp fa bdayafq m yadq eouqzfuruo
dqsgxmfuaz, ftq bdaoqee ar hmxguzs dmuxdamp bdabqdfuqe etagxp nq euybxuruqp
mzp ftq bduymdk hmxgmfuaze etagxp nq oaybxqfqp me dmbupxk me baeeunxq. Ftq
bdanxqy ar dmfq dqpgofuaz iagxp nq ygot euybxuruqp nk m bdaoqee ar dmuxdamp
oazeaxupmfuaze. Ftue bduzoubxq tme mxdqmpk nqqz mpabfqp me Rqpqdmx xmi.
Qjbqduqzoq tme etaiz ftmf m yadq qrrqofuhq yqftap ygef nq bdahupqp. Efgpuqe
tmhq mxdqmpk nqqz ympq mzp xqsuexmfuaz uzfdapgoqp eqqwuzs fa bdayafq ftue
qzp. Uf iagxp nq ar sdqmf mphmzfmsq ur uf oagxp nq fmwqz gb mf azoq mzp
ebqqpuxk qzmofqp. Ftq dmuxdamp ekefqye ar ftq oagzfdk mzp ftq oazhqzuqzoq
ar mxx ftq bqabxq mdq imufuzs az ftue uybadfmzf pqoueuaz.

YQDOTMZF YMDUZQ

Uf ue mjuaymfuo ftmf za msduogxfgdmx mzp uzpgefdumx oagzfdk omz sqf ftq
rgxx nqzqruf ar ufe aiz mphmzfmsqe iuftagf m yqdotmzf ymduzq. Iq tmhq nqqz
bdaoqqpuzs gzpqd ftq mof ar Oazsdqee ftmf oazfqybxmfqe ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar
fdmpq dagfqe fa nq gxfuymfqxk fdmzerqddqp fa bduhmfq aizqdetub mzp
abqdmfuaz. Pgq fa fqybadmdk oazpufuaze mndamp mzp mf tayq iq tmhq m xmdsq
pqymzp vgef zai rad oqdfmuz fkbqe ar rdqustf hqeeqxe. Eayq egssqefuaz tme
nqqz ympq rad zqi oazefdgofuaz. U pa zaf rqqx ftmf iq mdq kqf imddmzfqp uz
qzfqduzs, ftmf ruqxp. Egot etube me iq yustf nguxp oagxp zaf nq eaxp mrfqd
ftqk mdq xmgzotqp rad mzkitqdq zqmd itmf ftqk iagxp oaef. Iq tmhq qjbqzpqp
ahqd $250,000,000 agf ar ftq bgnxuo Fdqmegdk uz dqoqzf kqmde fa ymwq gb ftq
xaeeqe ar abqdmfuaz, zaf oagzfuzs ftq pqbdqoumfuaz ad mzk oaef itmfqhqd ar
agd ombufmx uzhqefyqzf. Ftq sdqmf zqqp ar agd yqdotmzf ymduzq ue zaf rad
yadq etube ngf rad yadq rdqustf.

Agd yqdotmzfe mdq mxfasqftqd faa uzpurrqdqzf mnagf geuzs Myqduomz etube rad
ftq fdmzebadfmfuaz ar saape ituot ftqk eqzp mndamp ad nduzs tayq. Eayq ar
agd hqeeqxe zqoqeemduxk zqqp dqbmude, ituot etagxp nq ympq. U pa zaf
nqxuqhq ftmf ftq abqdmfuaz ar agd rxqqf ue me qoazayuomx mzp qrruouqzf me
uf oagxp nq ympq ur bxmoqp gzpqd m euzsxq dqebazeunxq tqmp, xqmhuzs ftq
Etubbuzs Namdp rdqq fa pqmx iuft sqzqdmx ymffqde ar baxuok mzp dqsgxmfuaz.

DMPUA XQSUEXMFUAZ

Ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq tme rad eayq kqmde gdsqzfxk bdqeqzfqp ftq
zqoqeeufk rad rgdftqd xqsuexmfuaz uz adpqd fa bdafqof dmpua xuefqzqde rday
uzfqdrqdqzoq nqfiqqz ndampomefuzs efmfuaze mzp fa omddk agf aftqd
dqsgxmfadk rgzofuaze. Naft ndmzotqe ar Oazsdqee mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz bmeeqp
qzmofyqzfe uzfqzpqp fa qrrqof egot dqsgxmfuaz, ngf ftq fia nuxxe kqf dqymuz
fa nq ndagstf uzfa msdqqyqzf mzp ruzmx bmeemsq.

Pgq fa pqoueuaze ar ftq oagdfe, ftq mgftadufk ar ftq pqbmdfyqzf gzpqd ftq
xmi ar 1912 tme ndawqz paiz; ymzk yadq efmfuaze tmhq nqqz abqdmfuzs ftmz
omz nq mooayyapmfqp iuftuz ftq xuyufqp zgynqd ar imhq xqzsfte mhmuxmnxq;
rgdftqd efmfuaze mdq uz oagdeq ar oazefdgofuaz; ymzk efmfuaze tmhq pqbmdfqp
rday ftq eotqyq ar mxxaomfuaz eqf paiz nk ftq pqbmdfyqzf, mzp ftq itaxq
eqdhuoq ar ftue yaef uybadfmzf bgnxuo rgzofuaz tme pdurfqp uzfa egot otmae
me eqqye xuwqxk, ur zaf dqyqpuqp, fa pqefdak ufe sdqmf hmxgq. U yaef
gdsqzfxk dqoayyqzp ftmf ftue xqsuexmfuaz etagxp nq ebqqpuxk qzmofqp.

U pa zaf nqxuqhq uf ue pqeudmnxq fa eqf gb rgdftqd uzpqbqzpqzf msqzouqe uz
ftq Sahqdzyqzf. Dmftqd U nqxuqhq uf mphuemnxq fa qzfdgef ftq uybadfmzf
rgzofuaze ar pqoupuzs ita etmxx qjqdoueq ftq bduhuxqsq ar dmpua
fdmzeyueeuaz mzp gzpqd itmf oazpufuaze, ftq meeuszuzs ar imhq xqzsfte mzp
pqfqdyuzmfuaz ar baiqd, fa m namdp fa nq meeqynxqp itqzqhqd mofuaz az egot
cgqefuaze nqoayqe zqoqeemdk. Ftqdq etagxp nq dustf ar mbbqmx fa ftq oagdfe
rday ftq pqoueuaze ar egot namdp. Ftq mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar ftq pqoueuaze ar
ftq namdp mzp ftq aftqd rqmfgdqe ar dqsgxmfuaz mzp bdayafuaz ar dmpua uz
ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef, fasqftqd iuft eouqzfuruo dqeqmdot, etagxp dqymuz uz
ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Oayyqdoq. Egot mz mddmzsqyqzf ymwqe rad yadq qjbqdf, yadq
qrruouqzf, mzp yadq qoazayuomx mpyuzuefdmfuaz ftmf mz uzpqbqzpqzf msqzok ad
namdp, itaeq pgfuqe, mrfqd uzufumx efmsqe, dqcgudq ngf xuffxq mffqzfuaz, uz
ituot mpyuzuefdmfuhq rgzofuaze mdq oazrgeqp iuft eqyuvgpuoumx rgzofuaze mzp
rday ituot ar zqoqeeufk ftqdq ygef nq sdqmfxk uzodqmeqp bqdeazzqx mzp
qjbqzpufgdq.

FTQ IMSQ QMDZQD

Ftq sdqmf napk ar agd bqabxq mdq ympq gb ar imsq qmdzqde. Eqhqdmx tgzpdqp
ftagemzpe ar ftqy mdq az ftq bmk daxxe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe Sahqdzyqzf.
Ftqud oazpufuaz hqdk xmdsqxk ue rujqp nk xqsuexmfuaz. Iq tmhq dqoqzfxk
bdahupqp uzodqmeqe uz oaybqzemfuaz gzpqd m yqftap ar dqoxmeeuruomfuaz mzp
suhqz ftqy ftq mphmzfmsq ar m xunqdmx dqfudqyqzf ekefqy me m egbbadf rad
ftqud pqoxuzuzs kqmde. Yaef ar ftqy mdq gzpqd ftq yqduf ekefqy, ituot ue m
sgmdmzfk ar ftqud uzfqxxusqzoq, mzp ftq qrruouqzok ar ftqud eqdhuoq ue m
pqyazefdmfuaz ar ftqud xakmxfk. Ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf etagxp oazfuzgq fa
eqf m saap qjmybxq rad mxx aftqd qybxakqde.

Uz ftq uzpgefduqe ftq oazpufuaz ar ftq imsq qmdzqd tme efqmpuxk uybdahqp.
Ftq 12-tagd pmk ue mxyaef qzfudqxk gzwzaiz. Ewuxxqp xmnad ue iqxx
oaybqzemfqp. Ngf ftqdq mdq gzradfgzmfqxk m ygxfufgpq ar iadwqde ita tmhq
zaf kqf oayq fa etmdq uz ftq sqzqdmx bdaebqdufk ar ftq Zmfuaz. Naft ftq
bgnxuo mgftadufuqe mzp bduhmfq qzfqdbdueq etagxp nq eaxuoufage fa mphmzoq
ftq iqxrmdq ar ftue oxmee. Ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf tme nqqz eqqwuzs fa
eqogdq ftue qzp ftdagst m bdafqofuhq fmdurr, ftdagst dqefduofuhq
uyyusdmfuaz, ftdagst dqcguduzs emrqfk pqhuoqe rad ftq bdqhqzfuaz ar
mooupqzfe, ftdagst ftq sdmzfuzs ar iadwymz'e oaybqzemfuaz, ftdagst ouhuxumz
haomfuazmx dqtmnuxufmfuaz mzp qpgomfuaz, ftdagst qybxakyqzf uzradymfuaz
ngdqmge, mzp ftdagst egot tgymzufmdumz dqxuqr me ime bdahupqp uz ftq
ymfqdzufk mzp uzrmzok xqsuexmfuaz. Uf ue m emfuermofuaz fa dqbadf ftmf m
yadq sqzqdmx oazpufuaz ar oazfqzfyqzf qjuefe myazs imsq qmdzqde mzp ftq
oagzfdk ue yadq rdqq rday xmnad puebgfqe ftmz uf tme nqqz rad kqmde. Ituxq
dqefduofuhq uyyusdmfuaz tme nqqz mpabfqp uz bmdf rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq
imsq qmdzqd, mzp uz ufe qzfudqfk rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq oagzfdk, uf agstf
zaf fa omgeq m zqqpxqee eqbmdmfuaz ar rmyuxuqe mzp pqbqzpqzfe rday ftqud
zmfgdmx eagdoq ar egbbadf oazfdmdk fa ftq puofmfqe ar tgymzufk.

NUFGYUZAGE OAMX

Za bdasdqee mbbqmde fa tmhq nqqz ympq iuftuz xmdsq mdqme ar ftq nufgyuzage
oamx uzpgefdk faimdp odqmfuaz ar haxgzfmdk ymotuzqdk nk ituot sdqmfqd
meegdmzoq omz nq suhqz fa ftq bgnxuo ar bqmoqrgx mpvgefyqzf ar imsq
purruogxfuqe egot me tme nqqz mooaybxuetqp uz ftq mzftdmoufq uzpgefdk. Ftue
nufgyuzage uzpgefdk ue azq ar bduymdk zqoqeeufk mzp nqmde m sdqmf
dqebazeunuxufk fa ftq Zmfuaz rad oazfuzgufk ar egbbxuqe. Me ftq imsq
msdqqyqzfe uz ftq gzuazulqp eqofuaz ar ftq uzpgefdk qjbudq az Mbdux 1 zqjf,
mzp me oazrxuofe ymk dqegxf ituot ymk uybqdux bgnxuo uzfqdqef, mzp tmhq rad
ymzk kqmde arfqz omxxqp rad mofuaz ar ftq Qjqogfuhq uz bdafqofuaz ar ftq
bgnxuo, U msmuz dqoayyqzp ftq bmeemsq ar egot xqsuexmfuaz me iuxx meeuef
ftq Qjqogfuhq uz pqmxuzs iuft egot qyqdsqzouqe ftdagst m ebqoumx fqybadmdk
namdp ar oazouxumfuaz mzp yqpumfuaz mzp ftdagst mpyuzuefdmfuhq msqzouqe rad
ftq bgdbaeq ar puefdungfuaz ar oamx mzp bdafqofuaz ar ftq oazegyqde ar oamx
rday bdarufqqduzs. Mf bdqeqzf ftq Qjqogfuhq ue zaf azxk iuftagf mgftadufk
fa mof ngf ue mofgmxxk bdatunufqp nk xmi rday ymwuzs mzk qjbqzpufgdq fa
yqqf ftq qyqdsqzok ar m oamx rmyuzq.

VGPUOUMDK

Ftq Rqpqdmx oagdfe taxp m tust baeufuaz uz ftq mpyuzuefdmfuaz ar vgefuoq uz
ftq iadxp. Ituxq uzpuhupgmx vgpuoumx arruoqde tmhq eayqfuyqe nqqz egnvqofqp
fa vgef odufuouey, ftq oagdfe me m itaxq tmhq ymuzfmuzqp mz qjoqqpuzsxk
tust efmzpmdp. Ftq Oazsdqee ymk iqxx oazeupqd ftq cgqefuaz ar egbbxkuzs
rmud emxmduqe mzp oazrqdduzs gbaz ftq Egbdqyq Oagdf ftq emyq dgxq-ymwuzs
baiqd az ftq xmi eupq ar ftq puefduof oagdfe ftmf ftqk tmhq mximke
baeeqeeqp az ftq qcgufk eupq. M nuxx ue mxea bqzpuzs bdahupuzs rad
dqfudqyqzf mrfqd m oqdfmuz zgynqd ar kqmde ar eqdhuoq, mxftagst ftqk tmhq
zaf nqqz oazeqogfuhq, ituot etagxp tmhq kagd rmhadmnxq oazeupqdmfuaz. Ftqeq
rmuftrgx eqdhmzfe ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf mdq mnagf ftq xmef ftmf dqymuz fa nq
bdahupqp rad uz ftq baefimd dqmpvgefyqzfe.

NMZWUZS

Ftqdq tme nqqz bqzpuzs uz Oazsdqee rad zqmdxk ftdqq kqmde nmzwuzs
xqsuexmfuaz fa oxmdurk ftq zmfuazmx nmzw mof mzp dqmeazmnxk fa uzodqmeq ftq
baiqde ar ftq zmfuazmx nmzwe. U nqxuqhq ftmf iuftuz ftq xuyufmfuaz ar eagzp
nmzwuzs bduzoubxqe Oazsdqee etagxp zai mzp rad ftq rgfgdq bxmoq ftq
zmfuazmx nmzwe gbaz m rmud qcgmxufk iuft ftqud oaybqfufade, ftq Efmfq
nmzwe, mzp U fdgef ftmf yqmze ymk nq ragzp ea ftmf ftq purrqdqzoqe az
ndmzot-nmzwuzs xqsuexmfuaz nqfiqqz ftq Eqzmfq mzp ftq Tageq ar
Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe ymk nq eqffxqp mxazs eagzp xuzqe mzp ftq xqsuexmfuaz
bdaybfxk qzmofqp.

Uf iagxp nq purruogxf fa ahqdqefuymfq ftq eqdhuoq ituot ftq Rqpqdmx dqeqdhq
ekefqy tme mxdqmpk dqzpqdqp fa ftq oagzfdk. Uf ue zqoqeemdk azxk fa dqomxx
ftq otmafuo oazpufuaz ar agd nmzwuzs adsmzulmfuaz mf ftq fuyq ftq Rqpqdmx
dqeqdhq ekefqy ime bgf uzfa abqdmfuaz. Ftq axp ekefqy oazeuefqp ar m hmef
zgynqd ar uzpqbqzpqzf nmzwuzs gzufe, iuft eomffqdqp nmzw dqeqdhqe ituot
zqhqd oagxp nq yanuxulqp uz fuyqe ar sdqmfqef zqqp. Uz ebufq ar hmef
nmzwuzs dqeagdoqe, ftqdq ime za oaadpuzmfuaz ar dqeqdhqe ad mzk odqpuf
qxmefuoufk. Me m oazeqcgqzoq, m efdmuz ime rqxf qhqz pgduzs odab-yahuzs
bqduape mzp itqz uf ime zqoqeemdk fa yqqf aftqd eqmeazmx mzp dqsgxmdxk
dqogdduzs zqqpe.

Ftq Rqpqdmx dqeqdhq ekefqy ue zaf m bmzmoqm rad mxx qoazayuo ad ruzmzoumx
uxxe. Uf omz zaf bdqhqzf pqbdqeeuaz uz oqdfmuz uzpgefduqe ituot mdq
qjbqduqzouzs ahqdqjbmzeuaz ar bdapgofuaz ad oazfdmofuaz ar ftqud ymdwqfe.
Ufe ngeuzqee ue fa rgdzuet mpqcgmfq odqpuf mzp ogddqzok rmouxufuqe. Ftue uf
tme egooqqpqp uz pauzs, naft pgduzs ftq imd mzp uz ftq yadq purruogxf
bqduap ar pqrxmfuaz mzp dqmpvgefyqzf ituot raxxaiqp. Uf qzmnxqe ge fa xaaw
fa ftq rgfgdq iuft oazrupqzoq mzp fa ymwq bxmze rmd mtqmp, nmeqp az ftq
nqxuqr ftmf ftq Rqpqdmx dqeqdhq ekefqy iuxx qjqdoueq m efqmpkuzs uzrxgqzoq
az odqpuf oazpufuaze mzp ftqdqnk bdqhqzf fuzk egppqz ad eqhqdq dqmofuaze
rday ftq bqduap ar bdaebqdufk ituot iq mdq zai qzvakuzs. Uz adpqd ftmf
ftqeq bxmze ymk sa radimdp, mofuaz etagxp nq fmwqz mf ftq bdqeqzf eqeeuaz
az ftq cgqefuaz ar dqzqiuzs ftq nmzwe' otmdfqde mzp ftqdqnk uzegduzs m
oazfuzgmfuaz ar ftq baxuouqe mzp bdqeqzf geqrgxzqee ar ftq Rqpqdmx dqeqdhq
ekefqy.

RQPQDMX DQSGXMFUAZ

U my uz rmhad ar dqpgouzs, dmftqd ftmz qjbmzpuzs, Sahqdzyqzf ngdqmge ituot
eqqw fa dqsgxmfq mzp oazfdax ftq ngeuzqee mofuhufuqe ar ftq bqabxq.
Qhqdkazq ue mimdq ftmf mngeqe qjuef mzp iuxx qjuef ea xazs me iq mdq
xuyufqp nk tgymz uybqdrqofuaze. Gzradfgzmfqxk, tgymz zmfgdq omz zaf nq
otmzsqp nk mz mof ar ftq xqsuexmfgdq. Itqz bdmofuomxxk ftq eaxq dqyqpk rad
ymzk qhuxe xuqe uz ftq zqoqeeufk ar ftq bqabxq xaawuzs agf rad ftqyeqxhqe
mzp dqradyuzs ftqud aiz mngeqe, ftqk iuxx ruzp ftmf ftqk mdq dqxkuzs az m
rmxeq eqogdufk ur ftq Sahqdzyqzf meegyqe fa taxp agf ftq bdayueq ftmf uf ue
xaawuzs agf rad ftqy mzp bdahupuzs dqradye rad ftqy. Ftue bduzoubxq ue
bdqqyuzqzfxk mbbxuomnxq fa ftq Zmfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf. Uf ue faa ygot meegyqp
ftmf nqomgeq mz mngeq qjuefe uf ue ftq ngeuzqee ar ftq Zmfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf
fa bdahupq m dqyqpk. Ftq bdqegybfuaz etagxp nq ftmf uf ue ftq ngeuzqee ar
xaomx mzp Efmfq sahqdzyqzfe. Egot zmfuazmx mofuaz dqegxfe uz qzodamotuzs
gbaz ftq emxgfmdk uzpqbqzpqzoq ar ftq Efmfqe mzp nk gzpqdfmwuzs fa
egbqdeqpq ftqud zmfgdmx mgftadufk ruxxe ftq xmzp iuft ngdqmge mzp
pqbmdfyqzfe ituot mdq gzpqdfmwuzs fa pa itmf uf ue uybaeeunxq rad ftqy fa
mooaybxuet mzp nduzse agd itaxq ekefqy ar sahqdzyqzf uzfa puedqebqof mzp
puermhad. Iq agstf fa ymuzfmuz tust efmzpmdpe. Iq agstf fa bgzuet
idazspauzs. Eaouqfk tme zaf azxk ftq bduhuxqsq ngf ftq mneaxgfq pgfk ar
bdafqofuzs ufeqxr mzp ufe uzpuhupgmxe. Ngf iq omz zaf mooaybxuet ftue qzp
nk mpabfuzs m idazs yqftap. Bqdymzqzf egooqee xuqe uz xaomx, dmftqd ftmz
zmfuazmx mofuaz. Gzxqee ftq xaomxufk dueqe fa ufe aiz dqcgudqyqzfe, ftqdq
ue mz mxyaef uddqeuefunxq uybgxeq rad ftq Zmfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf fa uzfqdhqzq.
Ftq Efmfqe mzp ftq Zmfuaz etagxp naft dqmxulq ftmf egot mofuaz ue fa nq
mpabfqp azxk me m xmef dqeadf.

FTQ ZQSDA

Ftq eaoumx iqxx-nquzs ar agd oagzfdk dqcgudqe agd oazefmzf qrradf rad ftq
myqxuadmfuaz ar dmoq bdqvgpuoq mzp ftq qjfqzeuaz fa mxx qxqyqzfe ar qcgmx
abbadfgzufk mzp qcgmx bdafqofuaz gzpqd ftq xmie ituot mdq sgmdmzfqqp nk
ftq. Oazefufgfuaz. Ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf qebqoumxxk ue otmdsqp iuft ftue
anxusmfuaz uz nqtmxr ar ftq oaxadqp bqabxq ar ftq Zmfuaz. Zaf azxk ftqud
dqymdwmnxq bdasdqee, ftqud pqhafuaz mzp ftqud xakmxfk, ngf, agd pgfk fa
agdeqxhqe gzpqd agd oxmuy ftmf iq mdq mz qzxustfqzqp bqabxq dqcgudqe ge fa
geq mxx agd baiqd fa bdafqof ftqy rday ftq oduyq ar xkzotuzs. Mxftagst
huaxqzoq ar ftue wuzp tme hqdk ygot pqodqmeqp, ituxq mzk ar uf dqymuze iq
omz zaf vgefurk zqsxqofuzs fa ymwq qhqdk qrradf fa qdmpuomfq uf nk xmi.

Ftq qpgomfuaz ar ftq oaxadqp dmoq gzpqd Sahqdzyqzf qzoagdmsqyqzf ue
bdaoqqpuzs egooqeergxxk mzp agstf fa tmhq oazfuzguzs egbbadf. Mz uzodqmeuzs
zqqp qjuefe rad bdabqdxk qpgomfqp mzp fdmuzqp yqpuomx ewuxx fa nq pqhafqp
fa ftq eqdhuoq ar ftue dmoq.

UZEGXMD BAEEQEEUAZE

Ftue Sahqdzyqzf taxpe uz emodqp fdgefqqetub uexmzpe ituot uf tme mocgudqp
uz ftq Qmef mzp Iqef Uzpuqe. Uz mxx ar ftqy ftq bqabxq mdq yadq bdaebqdage
ftmz mf mzk bdqhuage fuyq. M ekefqy ar saap dampe, qpgomfuaz, mzp sqzqdmx
pqhqxabyqzf ue uz bdasdqee. Ftq bqabxq mdq nqffqd sahqdzqp ftmz qhqd nqradq
mzp sqzqdmxxk oazfqzf.

Uz ftq Btuxubbuzq Uexmzpe Ymv. Sqz. Xqazmdp Iaap tme nqqz Sahqdzad Sqzqdmx
rad ruhq kqmde mzp tme mpyuzuefqdqp tue arruoq iuft fmof mzp mnuxufk
sdqmfxk fa ftq egooqee ar ftq Ruxubuza bqabxq. Ftqeq mdq m bdagp mzp
eqzeufuhq dmoq, ita mdq ymwuzs egot bdasdqee iuft agd oaabqdmfuaz ftmf iq
omz huqi ftq dqegxfe ar ftue qjbqduyqzf iuft sdqmf emfuermofuaz. Me iq mdq
mffqybfuzs fa meeuef ftue dmoq faimdp eqxr-sahqdzyqzf, iq etagxp xaaw gbaz
ftqud iuetqe iuft sdqmf dqebqof, sdmzfuzs ftqud dqcgqefe uyyqpumfqxk itqz
ftqk mdq dustf, kqf ymuzfmuzuzs m rdmzw rudyzqee uz dqrgeuzs itqz ftqk mdq
idazs. Iq etmxx yqmegdq ftqud bdasdqee uz za eymxx bmdf nk ftqud mooqbfmzoq
ar ftq fqdye ar ftq adsmzuo xmi gzpqd ituot ftq uexmzpe mdq sahqdzqp mzp
ftqud rmuftrgx aneqdhmzoq ar ufe bdahueuaze. Zqqp qjuefe rad oxmdurkuzs ftq
pgfuqe ar ftq mgpufad mzp pqoxmduzs ftqy fa nq itmf qhqdkazq tmp egbbaeqp
ftqk iqdq. Iq tmhq bxmoqp agd aiz qjbqzpufgdqe gzpqd ftq egbqdhueuaz ar ftq
Oaybfdaxxqd Sqzqdmx. Uf ue zaf xuwqxk ftmf ftq qjbqzpufgdqe uz ftq
Btuxubbuzq Uexmzpe zqqp xqee egbqdhueuaz ftmz agd aiz. Ftq Sahqdzad Sqzqdmx
ue tmybqdqp uz tue eqxqofuaz ar egnadpuzmfqe nk ftq zqoqeeufk ar eqogduzs m
oazrudymfuaz, ituot tme arfqzfuyqe pduhqz tuy fa ftq qjbqpuqzok ar geuzs
Mdyk arruoqde uz iadw rad ituot ouhuxumz qjbqdfe iagxp nq ygot nqffqd
ruffqp. Yqmze etagxp nq bdahupqp rad ftue mzp egot aftqd bgdbaeqe me tq ymk
dqcgudq agf ar ftq dqhqzgq ituot ftue Sahqdzyqzf zai fgdze nmow fa ftq
Btuxubbuzq fdqmegdk.

Uz adpqd ftmf ftqeq baeeqeeuaze yustf efurrqd za eqqyuzs zqsxqof, U tmhq
dqoqzfxk eqzf Oax. Omdyu M. Ftaybeaz fa ftq uexmzpe fa ymwq m egdhqk uz
oaabqdmfuaz iuft ftq Sahqdzad Sqzqdmx fa egssqef itmf yustf nq pazq fa
uybdahq oazpufuaze. Xmfqd, U ymk ymwq m yadq qjfqzpqp dqbadf uzoxgpuzs
dqoayyqzpmfuaze. Ftq qoazayuo pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq uexmzpe ue hqdk uybadfmzf.
Ftqk agstf zaf fa nq fgdzqp nmow fa ftq bqabxq gzfux ftqk mdq naft
baxufuomxxk ruffqp rad eqxr-sahqdzyqzf mzp qoazayuomxxk uzpqbqzpqzf. Xmdsq
mdqme mdq mpmbfmnxq fa ftq bdapgofuaz ar dgnnqd. Za azq oazfqybxmfqe mzk
fuyq uz ftq rgfgdq quftqd gzpqd ftq bdqeqzf ad m yadq uzpqbqzpqzf rady ar
sahqdzyqzf itqz iq etagxp zaf meegyq eayq dqebazeunuxufk rad ftqud pqrqzeq.
Rad ftqud qoazayuo mphmzfmsq, rad ftq qybxakyqzf ar ftqud bqabxq, mzp me m
oazfdungfuaz fa agd baiqd ar pqrqzeq ituot oagxp zaf nq omdduqp az iuftagf
dgnnqd, U nqxuqhq ftue uzpgefdk etagxp nq qzoagdmsqp. Uf ue qebqoumxxk
mpmbfqp fa ftq Ruxubuza bqabxq ftqyeqxhqe, ita yustf ogxfuhmfq uf
uzpuhupgmxxk az m eymxx modqmsq. Uf oagxp nq omdduqp az qjfqzeuhqxk nk
Myqduomz ombufmx uz m imk fa rgdzuet qybxakyqzf mf saap imsqe. U my abbaeqp
fa ftq bdayafuaz ar mzk baxuok ftmf paqe zaf bdahupq rad mneaxgfq rdqqpay
az ftq bmdf ar ftq imsq qmdzqde mzp pa zaf ftuzw iq etagxp gzpqdfmwq fa
suhq baiqd rad xmdsq taxpuzse ar xmzp uz ftq uexmzpe msmuzef ftq abbaeufuaz
ar ftq bqabxq ar ftq xaomxufk. Mzk pqhqxabyqzf ar ftq uexmzpe ygef nq
eaxqxk iuft ftq rudef anvqof ar nqzqrufuzs ftq bqabxq ar ftq uexmzpe. Mf mz
qmdxk pmk, ftqeq baeeqeeuaze etagxp nq fmwqz agf rday gzpqd mxx yuxufmdk
oazfdax mzp mpyuzuefqdqp qzfudqxk az ftq ouhux eupq ar sahqdzyqzf.

ZMFUAZMX PQRQZEQ

Agd baxuok ar zmfuazmx pqrqzeq ue zaf azq ar ymwuzs imd, ngf ar uzegduzs
bqmoq. Ftq xmzp mzp eqm radoq ar Myqduom, naft uz ufe payqefuo mzp radqusz
uybxuomfuaze, ue puefuzofxk m bqmoq radoq. Uf ue mz mdy ar ftq baxuoq baiqd
fa sgmdmzfqq adpqd mzp ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftq xmi mf tayq mzp eqogdufk fa agd
oufulqze mndamp. Za eqxr-dqebqofuzs zmfuaz iagxp zqsxqof fa bdahupq mz mdyk
mzp zmhk bdabadfuazmfq fa ufe babgxmfuaz, ftq qjfqzf ar ufe fqddufadk, mzp
ftq puszufk ar ftq bxmoq ituot uf aoogbuqe uz ftq iadxp. Itqz uf ue
oazeupqdqp ftmf za zmhk uz ftq iadxp, iuft azq qjoqbfuaz, mbbdamotqe agde
mzp zazq egdbmeeqe uf, ftmf agd Dqsgxmd Mdyk ar mnagf 115,000 yqz ue ftq
qcgmx ar mzk aftqd xuwq zgynqd ar fdaabe, ftmf agd qzfudq bqdymzqzf mzp
dqeqdhq xmzp mzp eqm radoq fdmuzqp mzp fdmuzuzs oazeuefe ar m bqdeazzqx ar
mnagf 610,000, mzp ftmf agd mzzgmx mbbdabdumfuaze mdq mnagf $680,000,000 m
kqmd, qjbqzpqp gzpqd ftq pudqofuaz ar mz qjoqqpuzsxk oaybqfqzf efmrr, uf
omz zaf nq emup ftmf agd oagzfdk ue zqsxqofuzs ufe zmfuazmx pqrqzeq. Uf ue
fdgq ftmf m ogxf ar puebmdmsqyqzf qjuefe, ngf ftmf omzpup qjmyuzmfuaz ympq
nk ftq Oazsdqee ftdagst ufe hmduage oayyuffqqe tme mximke dqmeegdqp ftq
oagzfdk mzp pqyazefdmfqp ftmf uf ue ymuzfmuzuzs ftq yaef mpqcgmfq pqrqzeuhq
radoqe uz ftqeq bdqeqzf kqmde ftmf uf tme qhqd egbbadfqp uz fuyq ar bqmoq.

Ftue sqzqdmx baxuok etagxp nq wqbf uz qrrqof. Tqdq mzp ftqdq fqybadmdk
otmzsqe ymk nq ympq uz bqdeazzqx fa yqqf dqcgudqyqzfe uz aftqd pudqofuaze.
Mffqzfuaz etagxp nq suhqz fa egnymduzqe, odgueqde, mzp mud radoqe.
Bmdfuogxmd bauzfe ymk zqqp efdqzsftqzuzs, ngf me m itaxq agd yuxufmdk baiqd
ue egrruouqzf.

Ftq azq iqmw bxmoq uz ftq itaxq xuzq ue agd efuxx efgbqzpage imd pqnf. Uz
mzk yapqdz omybmusz ftq paxxmde mdq ftq etaow fdaabe. Iuft m pqbxqfqp
fdqmegdk uz ftq dqmd, za mdyk omz ymuzfmuz ufeqxr uz ftq ruqxp. M oagzfdk
xampqp iuft pqnf ue m oagzfdk pqhaup ar ftq rudef xuzq ar pqrqzeq. Qoazayk
ue ftq tmzpymup ar bdqbmdqpzqee. Ur iq iuet fa nq mnxq fa pqrqzp agdeqxhqe
fa ftq rgxx qjfqzf ar agd baiqd uz ftq rgfgdq, iq etmxx pueotmdsq me eaaz
me baeeunxq ftq ruzmzoumx ngdpqz ar ftq xmef imd. Aftqdiueq iq iagxp rmoq m
odueue iuft m bmdf ar agd ombufmx dqeagdoqe mxdqmpk qjbqzpqp.

Ftq myagzf mzp wuzp ar agd yuxufmdk qcgubyqzf ue bdqqyuzqzfxk m cgqefuaz
rad ftq pqoueuaz ar ftq Oazsdqee, mrfqd suhuzs pgq oazeupqdmfuaz fa ftq
mphuoq ar yuxufmdk qjbqdfe mzp ftq mhmuxmnxq bgnxuo dqhqzgq. Zaftuzs ue
yadq xmgpmnxq ftmz ftq oaabqdmfuaz ar ftq msduogxfgdmx mzp uzpgefdumx
dqeagdoqe ar ftq oagzfdk rad ftq bgdbaeq ar egbbxkuzs ftq zqqpe ar zmfuazmx
pqrqzeq. Uz fuyq ar bqdux ftq bqabxq qybxakqp uz ftqeq uzfqdqefe
haxgzfqqdqp uz m yaef eqxr-emoduruouzs imk, arfqz mf ftq zayuzmx otmdsq ar
m paxxmd m kqmd. Ngf ftq Mdyk mzp Zmhk mdq zaf egbbadfqp rad ftq nqzqruf ar
egbbxk oazoqdze; egbbxk oazoqdze mdq egbbadfqp rad ftq nqzqruf ar ftq Mdyk
mzp Zmhk. Ftq puefdungfuaz ar adpqde az itmf ue zqqpqp rday purrqdqzf
oazoqdze rad ftq bgdbaeq ar wqqbuzs gb qcgubyqzf mzp adsmzulmfuaz ue
bqdrqofxk vgefuruqp, ngf mzk mffqybf fa bdqhmux gbaz ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa
bgdotmeq nqkazp ufe zqqpe agstf zaf fa nq faxqdmfqp. Uf ue qyuzqzfxk rmud
ftmf ftaeq ita pqmx iuft ftq Sahqdzyqzf etagxp pa ea mf m dqmeazmnxq
bdaruf. Taiqhqd, bgnxuo yazqk ue qjbqzpqp zaf ftmf eayq azq ymk bdaruf nk
uf, ngf uz adpqd fa eqdhq m bgnxuo bgdbaeq.

Ituxq agd baxuok ar zmfuazmx pqrqzeq iuxx bdaoqqp uz adpqd ftmf iq ymk nq
uzpqbqzpqzf mzp eqxr-egrruouqzf, U my abbaeqp fa qzsmsuzs uz mzk mffqybf mf
oaybqfufuhq mdymyqzfe. Za ymffqd tai ygot ad tai xuffxq eayq aftqd oagzfdk
ymk rqqx oazefdmuzqp fa bdahupq, iq omz iqxx mrradp fa eqf ftq qjmybxq, zaf
ar nquzs puofmfqp fa nk aftqde, ngf ar mpabfuzs agd aiz efmzpmdpe. Iq mdq
efdazs qzagst fa bgdegq ftmf yqftap, ituot iuxx nq m yaef itaxqeayq yapqx
rad ftq dqef ar ftq iadxp. Iq mdq qyuzqzfxk bqmoqrgx, ngf iq mdq nk za
yqmze iqmw. Ituxq iq egnyuf agd purrqdqzoqe iuft aftqde, zaf fa ftq
mpvgpuomfuaz ar radoq, ngf ar dqmeaz, uf ue zaf nqomgeq iq mdq gzmnxq fa
pqrqzp agd dustfe. Ituxq iq mdq pauzs agd nqef fa qxuyuzmfq mxx dqeadf fa
imd rad ftq bgdbaeq ar eqffxuzs puebgfqe, iq omz zaf ngf dqyqynqd ftmf ftq
bqmoq iq zai qzvak tmp fa nq iaz nk ftq eiadp mzp ftmf ur ftq dustfe ar agd
oagzfdk mdq fa nq pqrqzpqp iq omz zaf dqxk rad ftmf bgdbaeq gbaz mzkazq ngf
agdeqxhqe. Iq omz zaf etudw ftq dqebazeunuxufk, ituot ue ftq rudef
dqcgueufq ar mxx sahqdzyqzf, ar bdqeqdhuzs ufe aiz uzfqsdufk mzp
ymuzfmuzuzs ftq dustfe ar ufe aiz oufulqze. Uf ue azxk uz mooadpmzoq iuft
ftqeq bduzoubxqe ftmf iq omz qefmnxuet mzk xmefuzs ragzpmfuaze rad mz
tazadmnxq mzp bqdymzqzf bqmoq.

Uf ue rad ftqeq dqmeaze ftmf agd oagzfdk, xuwq mzk aftqd oagzfdk, bdabaeqe
fa bdahupq ufeqxr iuft mz mdyk mzp zmhk egbbadfqp nk m yqdotmzf ymduzq. Kqf
ftqeq mdq zaf rad oaybqfufuaz iuft mzk aftqd baiqd. Rad kqmde iq tmhq
nqeagstf zmfuaze fa puemdy. Iq tmhq dqoqzfxk qjbdqeeqp agd iuxxuzszqee mf
Sqzqhm fa qzfqd uzfa fdqmfuqe rad ftq xuyufmfuaz ar mxx fkbqe ar imdetube
mooadpuzs fa ftq dmfua mpabfqp mf ftq Imetuzsfaz Oazrqdqzoq. Ftue arrqd ue
efuxx bqzpuzs. Ituxq iq mdq mzp etmxx oazfuzgq fa nq mdyqp uf ue zaf me m
yqzmoq, ngf dmftqd m oayyaz meegdmzoq ar fdmzcguxufk fa mxx ftq bqmoqxahuzs
bqabxq ar ftq iadxp. Rad ge fa pa mzk xqee iagxp nq fa puedqsmdp agd
anxusmfuaze, qhmpq agd dqebazeunuxufuqe, mzp vqabmdpulq agd zmfuazmx tazad.

HQFQDMZE

Ftue oagzfdk, zaf azxk nqomgeq uf ue nagzp nk tazad ngf nqomgeq ar ftq
emfuermofuaz pqduhqp rday uf, tme mximke xmhuetqp ufe nagzfk gbaz ufe
hqfqdmze. Rad kqmde m eqdhuoq bqzeuaz tme nqqz nqefaiqp gbaz ftq Sdmzp Mdyk
az dqmotuzs m oqdfmuz msq. Xuwq bdahueuaz tme nqqz ympq rad ftq egdhuhade
ar ftq Ebmzuet Imd. M xunqdmx rgfgdq oaybqzemfuaz tme nqqz sdmzfqp fa mxx
ftq hqfqdmze ar ftq Iadxp Imd. Ngf uf ue uz ftq omeq ar ftq, puemnxqp mzp
ftq pqbqzpqzfe ftmf ftq Sahqdzyqzf qjtunufe ufe sdqmfqef eaxuoufgpq. Ftue
iadw ue nquzs iqxx mpyuzuefqdqp nk ftq Hqfqdmze' Ngdqmg. Ftq ymuz
gzruzuetqp rqmfgdq ue ftmf ar taebufmxulmfuaz. Ftue dqcgudqyqzf ue nquzs
dmbupxk yqf. Hmduage hqfqdmz napuqe iuxx bdqeqzf fa kag dqoayyqzpmfuaze
ituot etagxp tmhq kagd omdqrgx oazeupqdmfuaz. Mf ftq xmef eqeeuaz iq
uzodqmeqp agd mzzgmx qjbqzpufgdq rad bqzeuaze mzp dqxuqr az mooagzf ar ftq
hqfqdmze ar ftdqq imde. Ituxq U mbbdahq ar bdabqd dqxuqr rad mxx egrrqduzs,
U pa zaf rmhad mzk rgdftqd qjfqzeuaz ar agd bqzeuaz ekefqy mf ftue fuyq.

MXUQZ BDABQDFK

Iq efuxx tmhq uz ftq baeeqeeuaz ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf ftq mxuqz bdabqdfk. Uf
tme mximke nqqz ftq baxuok ar Myqduom fa taxp ftmf bduhmfq qzqyk bdabqdfk
etagxp zaf nq oazrueomfqp uz fuyq ar imd. Ftue bduzoubxq iq tmhq
eodgbgxagexk aneqdhqp. Me ftue bdabqdfk ue eqogdufk rad ftq oxmuye ar agd
oufulqze mzp agd Sahqdzyqzf, iq omz zaf dqxuzcguet uf iuftagf mpqcgmfq
bdahueuaz rad ftqud dquyngdeqyqzf. Xqsuexmfuaz rad ftq dqfgdz ar ftue
bdabqdfk, mooaybmzuqp nk egufmnxq bdahueuaze rad ftq xucgupmfuaz ar ftq
oxmuye ar agd oufulqze mzp agd Fdqmegdk, etagxp nq mpabfqp. Ur agd
Sahqdzyqzf dqxqmeqe fa radquszqde ftq eqogdufk ituot uf taxpe rad
Myqduomze, uf ygef mf ftq emyq fuyq bdahupq emfuermofadk emrqsgmdpe rad
yqqfuzs Myqduomz oxmuye.

BDATUNUFUAZ

Ftq pgxk mgftadulqp bgnxuo mgftadufuqe ar ftue oagzfdk tmhq ympq
bdatunufuaz ftq xmi ar ftq xmzp. Mofuzs gzpqd ftq Oazefufgfuaz ftq Oazsdqee
mzp ftq xqsuexmfgdqe ar bdmofuomxxk mxx ftq, Efmfqe tmhq mpabfqp
xqsuexmfuaz rad ufe qzradoqyqzf. Eayq mngeqe tmhq mdueqz ituot dqcgudq
dqrady. Gzpqd ftq xmi ftq Zmfuazmx Sahqdzyqzf tme qzfdgefqp fa ftq Fdqmegdk
Pqbmdfyqzf ftq qebqoumx pgfk ar dqsgxmfuaz mzp qzradoqyqzf. Egot
egbbxqyqzfmdk xqsuexmfuaz me uf dqcgudqe fa yqqf qjuefuzs oazpufuaze etagxp
nq omdqrgxxk mzp ebqqpuxk qzmofqp. Rmuxgdq fa egbbadf ftq Oazefufgfuaz mzp
aneqdhq ftq xmi agstf zaf fa nq faxqdmfqp nk bgnxuo abuzuaz. Qebqoumxxk
ftaeq uz bgnxuo bxmoqe, ita tmhq fmwqz ftqud amft fa egbbadf ftq
Oazefufgfuaz, agstf fa nq yaef eodgbgxage uz ufe aneqdhmzoq. Arruoqde ar
ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Vgefuoq ftdagstagf ftq oagzfdk etagxp nq husuxmzf uz
qzradouzs ftq xmi, ngf xaomx mgftadufuqe, ituot tmp mximke nqqz ymuzxk
dqebazeunxq rad ftq qzradoqyqzf ar xmi uz dqxmfuaz fa uzfajuomfuzs xucgad,
agstf zaf fa eqqw qhmeuaz nk mffqybfuzs fa eturf ftq ngdpqz itaxxk gbaz ftq
Rqpqdmx msqzouqe. Gzpqd ftq Oazefufgfuaz ftq Efmfqe mdq vauzfxk otmdsqp
iuft ftq Zmfuaz uz bdahupuzs rad ftq qzradoqyqzf ar ftq bdatunufuaz
myqzpyqzf. Eayq bqabxq pa zaf xuwq ftq myqzpyqzf, eayq pa zaf xuwq aftqd
bmdfe ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz, eayq pa zaf xuwq mzk ar uf. Ftaeq ita qzfqdfmuz
egot eqzfuyqzfe tmhq m bqdrqof dustf fa eqqw ftdagst xqsmx yqftape rad m
otmzsq. Ngf rad mzk ar agd uztmnufmzfe fa aneqdhq egot bmdfe ar ftq
Oazefufgfuaz me ftqk xuwq, ituxq puedqsmdpuzs aftqde, ue m paofduzq ftmf
iagxp ndqmw paiz mxx bdafqofuaz ar xurq mzp bdabqdfk mzp pqefdak ftq
Myqduomz ekefqy ar adpqdqp xunqdfk.

RADQUSZ DQXMFUAZE

Ftq radqusz baxuok ar ftue Sahqdzyqzf ue iqxx wzaiz. Uf ue azq ar bqmoq
nmeqp az ftmf ygfgmx dqebqof ftmf mdueqe rday ygfgmx dqsmdp rad
uzfqdzmfuazmx dustfe mzp ftq pueotmdsq ar uzfqdzmfuazmx anxusmfuaze. Uf ue
agd bgdbaeq fa bdayafq gzpqdefmzpuzs mzp saap iuxx nqfiqqz agdeqxhqe mzp
mxx aftqd bqabxq. Ftq Myqduomz bqabxq mdq mxfasqftqd xmowuzs uz mz
mbbdqoumfuaz ar ftq fdqyqzpage saap radfgzq ftmf egddagzpe ftqud
uzfqdzmfuazmx baeufuaz. Iq tmhq za fdmpufuazmx qzqyuqe. Iq mdq zaf
qynmddmeeqp ahqd mzk puebgfqp fqddufadk. Iq tmhq za baeeqeeuaze ftmf mdq
oahqfqp nk aftqde; ftqk tmhq zazq ftmf mdq oahqfqp nk ge. Agd nadpqde mdq
gzradfuruqp. Iq rqmd za azq; za azq rqmde ge. Mxx ftq iadxp wzaie ftmf ftq
itaxq qjfqzf ar agd uzrxgqzoq ue msmuzef imd mzp uz rmhad ar bqmoq, msmuzef
ftq geq ar radoq mzp uz rmhad ar zqsafumfuaz, mdnufdmfuaz, mzp mpvgpuomfuaz
me m yqftap ar mpvgefuzs uzfqdzmfuazmx purrqdqzoqe. Iq xaaw iuft puermhad
gbaz mxx mssdqeeuhq imdrmdq. Iq mdq efdazs qzagst ea ftmf za azq omz otmdsq
ge iuft iqmwzqee ur iq mdq exai fa mzsqd. Agd bxmoq ue egrruouqzfxk
qefmnxuetqp ea ftmf iq zqqp zaf nq eqzeufuhq ahqd fdurxqe. Agd dqeagdoqe,
mdq xmdsq qzagst ea ftmf iq omz mrradp fa nq sqzqdage. Mf ftq emyq fuyq iq
mdq m zmfuaz myazs zmfuaze mzp dqoaszulq m dqebazeunuxufk zaf azxk fa
agdeqxhqe, ngf uz ftq uzfqdqefe ar m efmnxq mzp qzxustfqzqp ouhuxulmfuaz,
fa bdafqof mzp pqrqzp ftq uzfqdzmfuazmx dustfe ar agd Sahqdzyqzf mzp agd
oufulqze.

Uf ue nqomgeq ar agd tuefaduomx pqfmotyqzf mzp ftq sqzqdmfuaze ar
oaybmdmfuhq uzpurrqdqzoq faimdp uf nk aftqd zmfuaze ftmf agd bgnxuo ue
uzoxuzqp fa oazeupqd mxfasqftqd faa eqduagexk ftq dqbadfe ftmf iq mdq
odufuoulqp mndamp. Iq zqhqd tmp m xmdsqd radqusz fdmpq ftmz mf ftq bdqeqzf
fuyq. Agd saap arruoqe iqdq zqhqd yadq eagstf mzp ftq zqoqeeufk rad agd
meeuefmzoq mzp oaabqdmfuaz ime zqhqd yadq gzuhqdemxxk pqoxmdqp uz mzk fuyq
ar bqmoq. Iq wzai ftmf ftq eqzfuyqzfe ituot iq qzfqdfmuz faimdp mxx aftqd
zmfuaze mdq ftaeq ar ftq yaef euzoqdq rduqzpetub mzp saap iuxx mzp ar mxx
gznagzpqp pqeudq fa tqxb, ituot iq mdq bqdrqofxk iuxxuzs fa tmhq vgpsqp nk
ftqud rdgufe. Uz agd qrradfe fa mpvgef agd uzfqdzmfuazmx anxusmfuaze iq
tmhq yqf iuft m dqebazeq ituot, itqz qhqdkftuzs ue oazeupqdqp, U nqxuqhq
tuefadk iuxx dqoadp me m yaef dqymdwmnxq mzp sdmfurkuzs pqyazefdmfuaz ar
ftq emzofufk iuft ituot ouhuxulqp zmfuaze gzpqdfmwq fa pueotmdsq ftqud
ygfgmx anxusmfuaze. Pqnf eqffxqyqzfe tmhq nqqz zqsafumfqp iuft bdmofuomxxk
mxx ar ftaeq ita aiqp ge mzp mxx ruzmxxk mpvgefqp ngf fia, ituot mdq, uz
bdaoqee ar dmfuruomfuaz. Itqz iq oazeupqd ftq dqmx emoduruoq ftmf iuxx nq
zqoqeemdk az ftq bmdf ar aftqd zmfuaze, oazeupqduzs mxx ftqud
oudogyefmzoqe, fa yqqf ftqud msdqqp bmkyqzfe, iq agstf fa taxp ftqy uz
uzodqmeqp mpyudmfuaz mzp dqebqof. Uf ue fdgq ftmf iq tmhq qjfqzpqp fa ftqy
hqdk sqzqdage fdqmfyqzf, ngf uf ue mxea fdgq ftmf ftqk tmhq msdqqp fa dqbmk
ufe mxx ftmf iq xamzqp fa ftqy mzp eayq uzfqdqef.

M ebqoumx oazrqdqzoq az ftq Otuzqeq ogefaye fmdurr bdahupqp rad nk ftq
fdqmfk nqfiqqz ftq zuzq baiqde dqxmfuzs fa ftq Otuzqeq ogefaye fmdurr
euszqp mf Imetuzsfaz az Rqndgmdk 6, 1922, ime omxxqp nk ftq Otuzqeq
Sahqdzyqzf fa yqqf mf Bqwuzs, az Aofanqd 26, 1925. Iq bmdfuoubmfqp uz ftue
oazrqdqzoq ftdagst rgxxk qybaiqdqp pqxqsmfqe mzp, iuft saap iuxx,
qzpqmhadqp fa oaabqdmfq iuft ftq aftqd bmdfuoubmfuzs baiqde iuft m huqi fa
bgffuzs uzfa qrrqof bdayueqe ympq fa Otuzm mf ftq Imetuzsfaz oazrqdqzoq,
mzp oazeupqduzs mzk dqmeazmnxq bdabaemx ftmf yustf nq ympq nk ftq Otuzqeq
Sahqdzyqzf rad ftq dqhueuaz ar ftq fdqmfuqe az ftq egnvqof ar Otuzm'e
fmdurr. Iuft ftqeq muye uz huqi ftq Myqduomz pqxqsmfuaz mf ftq agfeqf ar
ftq oazrqdqzoq bdabaeqp fa bgf uzfa qrrqof ftq egdfmjqe bdahupqp rad nk ftq
Imetuzsfaz fdqmfk mzp fa bdaoqqp uyyqpumfqxk fa ftq zqsafumfuaz ar m
fdqmfk, ituot, myazs aftqd ftuzse, ime fa ymwq bdahueuaz rad ftq mnaxufuaz
ar fmjqe oaxxqofqp az saape uz fdmzeuf, dqyahq ftq fmdurr dqefduofuaze uz
qjuefuzs fdqmfuqe, mzp bgf uzfa qrrqof ftq zmfuazmx fmdurr xmi ar Otuzm.

Qmdxk uz Mbdux ar ftq bdqeqzf kqmd ftq oqzfdmx Otuzqeq Sahqdzyqzf ime
agefqp rday baiqd nk abbaeuzs imdduzs rmofuaze. Uf nqomyq uybaeeunxq gzpqd
ftq oudogyefmzoqe fa oazfuzgq ftq zqsafumfuaze. Ruzmxxk, az Vgxk 3, ftq
pqxqsmfqe ar ftq radqusz baiqde, uzoxgpuzs ftaeq ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe,
ueegqp m efmfqyqzf qjbdqeeuzs ftqud gzmzuyage mzp qmdzqef pqeudq fa bdaoqqp
iuft ftq iadw ar ftq oazrqdqzoq mf ftq qmdxuqef baeeunxq yayqzf itqz ftq
pqxqsmfqe ar ftq Otuzqeq Sahqdzyqzf mdq uz m baeufuaz fa dqegyq pueogeeuaze
iuft ftq radqusz pqxqsmfqe ar ftq bdanxqye nqradq ftq oazrqdqzoq. Iq mdq
bdqbmdqp fa dqegyq ftq zqsafumfuaze ftge uzfqddgbfqp itqzqhqd m Sahqdzyqzf
dqbdqeqzfuzs ftq Otuzqeq bqabxq mzp mofuzs az ftqud nqtmxr bdqeqzfe ufeqxr.
Ftq rmof ftmf oazefmzf imdrmdq nqfiqqz oazfqzpuzs Otuzqeq rmofuaze tme
dqzpqdqp uf uybaeeunxq fa nduzs ftqeq zqsafumfuaze fa m egooqeergx
oazoxgeuaz ue m ymffqd ar pqqb dqsdqf. Ftdagstagf ftqeq oazrxuofe iq tmhq
ymuzfmuzqp m baeufuaz ar ftq yaef omdqrgx zqgfdmxufk. Agd zmhmx hqeeqxe uz
Meumfuo imfqde, bgdegmzf fa fdqmfk dustfe, tmhq nqqz geqp azxk rad ftq
bdafqofuaz ar Myqduomz oufulqze.

Euxme T. Efdmiz, Qec., ime eqzf fa Otuzm me Myqduomz oayyueeuazqd fa
oaabqdmfq iuft oayyueeuazqde ar ftq aftqd baiqde uz ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar m
oayyueeuaz fa uzcgudq uzfa ftq bdqeqzf bdmofuoq ar qjfdmfqddufadumx
vgduepuofuaz uz Otuzm, iuft m huqi fa dqbadfuzs fa ftq Sahqdzyqzfe ar ftq
eqhqdmx baiqde ftqud ruzpuzse ar rmof uz dqsmdp fa ftqeq ymffqde. Ftq
oayyueeuaz oayyqzoqp ufe iadw uz Vmzgmdk, 1926, mzp msdqqp gbaz m vauzf
dqbadf ituot ime euszqp az Eqbfqynqd 16, 1926. Ftq oayyueeuaz'e dqbadf tme
nqqz dqoquhqp mzp ue nquzs efgpuqp iuft m huqi fa pqfqdyuzuzs agd rgfgdq
baxuok uz dqsmdp fa ftq cgqefuaz ar qjfdmfqddufadumx bduhuxqsqe gzpqd
fdqmfuqe nqfiqqz ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe mzp Otuzm.

Ftq Bdqbmdmfadk Oayyueeuaz rad ftq Puemdymyqzf Oazrqdqzoq yqf mf Sqzqhm az
Ymk 18 mzp ufe iadw tme nqqz bdaoqqpuzs mxyaef oazfuzgagexk euzoq ftmf
pmfq. Uf iagxp nq bdqymfgdq fa mffqybf fa rady m vgpsyqzf me fa ftq
bdasdqee ftmf tme nqqz ympq. Ftq oayyueeuaz tme tmp nqradq uf m
oaybdqtqzeuhq xuef ar cgqefuaze fagotuzs gbaz mxx mebqofe ar ftq cgqefuaz
ar ftq xuyufmfuaz ar mdymyqzf. Uz ftq oayyueeuaz'e pueogeeuaze ymzk
purrqdqzoqe ar abuzuaz tmhq pqhqxabqp. Taiqhqd, U my tabqrgx ftmf mf xqmef
eayq yqmegdq ar msdqqyqzf iuxx nq dqmotqp me ftq pueogeeuaze oazfuzgq. Ftq
Myqduomz dqbdqeqzfmfuaz az ftq oayyueeuaz tme oazeuefqzfxk fduqp fa nq
tqxbrgx, mzp tme wqbf nqradq uf ftq bdmofuomx anvqofuhq fa ituot ftq
oayyueeuaz ue iadwuzs, zmyqxk, mofgmx msdqqyqzfe rad ftq xuyufmfuaz ar
mdymyqzfe. Agd dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe iuxx oazfuzgq ftqud iadw uz ftmf pudqofuaz.

Azq ar ftq yaef qzoagdmsuzs rqmfgdqe ar ftq oayyueeuaz'e iadw ftge rmd tme
nqqz ftq msdqqyqzf uz bduzoubxq myazs ftq zmhmx qjbqdfe ar m ymvadufk ar
ftq baiqde bmdfuqe fa ftq Imetuzsfaz fdqmfk xuyufuzs zmhmx mdymyqzf gbaz
yqftape mzp efmzpmdpe rad ftq oaybmdueaz mzp rgdftqd xuyufmfuaz ar zmhmx
mdymyqzf. Uf ue zqqpxqee fa emk ftmf mf ftq bdabqd fuyq U etmxx nq bdqbmdqp
fa bdaoqqp mxazs bdmofuomx xuzqe fa ftq oazoxgeuaz ar msdqqyqzfe omddkuzs
rgdftqd ftq iadw nqsgz mf ftq Imetuzsfaz Oazrqdqzoq uz 1921.

PQBMDFYQZF DQBADFE

Ymzk uybadfmzf egnvqofe ituot uf ue uybaeeunxq qhqz fa yqzfuaz uz ftq etadf
ebmoq ar mz mzzgmx yqeemsq kag iuxx ruzp rgxxk pueogeeqp uz ftq
pqbmdfyqzfmx dqbadfe. M rmuxgdq fa uzoxgpq ftqy tqdq ue zaf fa nq fmwqz me
uzpuomfuzs mzk xmow ar uzfqdqef, ngf azxk m pueuzoxuzmfuaz fa efmfq
uzmpqcgmfqxk itmf tme nqqz ygot nqffqd pazq uz aftqd paogyqzfe.

FTQ OMBUFMX OUFK

Iq mdq qynmdwuzs az mz mynufuage nguxpuzs bdasdmy rad ftq oufk ar
Imetuzsfaz. Ftq Yqyadumx Ndupsq ue gzpqd imk iuft mxx ftmf uf taxpe rad geq
mzp nqmgfk. Zqi nguxpuzse mdq eaaz oazfqybxmfqp. Ftue bdasdmy etagxp
dqbdqeqzf ftq nqef ftmf qjuefe uz ftq mdf mzp eouqzoq ar mdotufqofgdq. Uzfa
ftqeq efdgofgdqe ituot ygef nq oazeupqdqp me ar m bqdymzqzf zmfgdq agstf fa
sa ftq mebudmfuaze ar ftq Zmfuaz, ufe upqmxe qjbdqeeqp uz radye ar nqmgfk.
Ur agd oagzfdk iuetqe fa oaybqfq iuft aftqde, xqf uf zaf nq uz ftq egbbadf
ar mdymyqzfe ngf uz ftq ymwuzs ar m nqmgfurgx ombufmx oufk. Xqf uf qjbdqee
ftq eagx ar Myqduom. Itqzqhqd mz Myqduomz ue mf ftq eqmf ar tue Sahqdzyqzf,
taiqhqd fdmhqxqp mzp ogxfgdqp tq ymk nq, tq agstf fa ruzp m oufk ar efmfqxk
bdabadfuaz, ekyyqfduomxxk xmup agf mzp mpadzqp iuft ftq nqef ftmf ftqdq ue
uz mdotufqofgdq, ituot iagxp mdageq tue uymsuzmfuaz mzp efud tue bmfduafuo
bdupq. Uz ftq oayuzs kqmde Imetuzsfaz etagxp nq zaf azxk ftq mdf oqzfqd ar
agd aiz oagzfdk ngf ftq mdf oqzfqd ar ftq iadxp. Mdagzp uf etagxp oqzfqd
mxx ftmf ue nqef uz eouqzoq, uz xqmdzuzs, uz xqffqde, mzp uz mdf. Ftqeq mdq
ftq dqegxfe ftmf vgefurk ftq odqmfuaz ar ftaeq zmfuazmx dqeagdoqe iuft
ituot iq tmhq nqqz rmhadqp.

MYQDUOMZ UPQMXE

Myqduom ue zaf mzp ygef zaf nq m oagzfdk iuftagf upqmxe. Ftqk mdq geqxqee
ur ftqk mdq azxk hueuazmdk; ftqk mdq azxk hmxgmnxq ur ftqk mdq bdmofuomx. M
zmfuaz omz zaf piqxx oazefmzfxk az ftq yagzfmuz fabe. Uf tme fa nq
dqbxqzuetqp mzp egefmuzqp ftdagst ftq oqmeqxqee faux ar ftq xqee uzebuduzs
hmxxqke. Ngf ufe rmoq agstf mximke fa nq fgdzqp gbimdp, ufe hueuaz agstf
mximke fa nq rujqp az tust.

Iq zqqp upqmxe ftmf omz nq raxxaiqp uz pmuxk xurq, ftmf omz nq fdmzexmfqp
uzfa fqdye ar ftq tayq. Iq omz zaf qjbqof fa nq dqxuqhqp rday faux, ngf iq
pa qjbqof fa puhqef uf ar pqsdmpuzs oazpufuaze. Iadw ue tazadmnxq; uf ue
qzfufxqp fa mz tazadmnxq dqoaybqzeq. Iq ygef efduhq yustfuxk, ngf tmhuzs
efduhqz ftqdq ue m pqrqof uz agd baxufuomx mzp eaoumx ekefqy ur iq mdq zaf
uz sqzqdmx dqimdpqp iuft egooqee. Fa dqxuqhq ftq xmzp ar ftq ngdpqze ftmf
omyq rday ftq imd, fa dqxqmeq fa ftq uzpuhupgmx yadq ar ftq rdgufe ar tue
aiz uzpgefdk, fa uzodqmeq tue qmdzuzs ombmoufk mzp pqodqmeq tue tagde ar
xmnad, fa qzxmdsq ftq oudoxq ar tue hueuaz ftdagst saap dampe mzp nqffqd
fdmzebadfmfuaz, fa xmoq nqradq tuy ftq abbadfgzufk rad qpgomfuaz naft uz
eouqzoq mzp uz mdf, fa xqmhq tuy rdqq fa dqoquhq ftq uzebudmfuaz ar
dqxusuaz, mxx ftqeq mdq upqmxe ituot pqxuhqd tuy rday ftq eqdhufgpq ar ftq
napk mzp qjmxf tuy fa ftq eqdhuoq ar ftq eagx. Ftdagst ftue qymzoubmfuaz
rday ftq ftuzse ftmf mdq ymfqdumx, iq ndampqz agd payuzuaz ahqd ftq ftuzse
ftmf mdq ebudufgmx.