Kp. Npcqgbclr, Kp. Qncyicp, Kckzcpq md rfc 86rf Amlepcqq:

Qctcl wcypq yem G clrcpcb kw npcqclr mddgac ugrf mlc jmle-fcjb pcqmjtc
mtcppgbgle yjj mrfcpq. G uyq rfcl, ylb pckygl lmu, bcrcpkglcb rfyr rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq qfyjj zcamkc yl ctcp kmpc nmrclr pcqmspac dmp rfc aysqc md
ncyac--pcyjgxgle rfyr ncyac ayllmr zc dmp mspqcjtcq yjmlc, zsr dmp ncmnjcq
ctcpwufcpc. Rfgq bcrcpkglyrgml gq qfypcb zw rfc clrgpc Amlepcqq--glbccb, zw
yjj Ykcpgaylq.

Kw nspnmqc rmbyw gq rm bgqasqq qmkc dcyrspcq md Ykcpgay'q nmqgrgml, zmrf yr
fmkc ylb gl fcp pcjyrgmlq rm mrfcpq.

Dgpqr, G nmglr msr rfyr dmp sq, yllsyj qcjd-cvykglyrgml gq kybc y bcdglgrc
lcacqqgrw zw rfc dyar rfyr uc lmu jgtc gl y bgtgbcb umpjb md slcyqw
cosgjgzpgsk, ugrf msp qgbc amkkgrrcb rm grq mul npmrcargml ylb yeyglqr
yeepcqqgml zw rfc mrfcp.

Ugrf zmrf qgbcq md rfgq bgtgbcb umpjb gl nmqqcqqgml md slzcjgctyzjw
bcqrpsargtc ucynmlq, kyliglb ynnpmyafcq y qryrc ufcpc ksrsyj yllgfgjyrgml
zcamkcq y nmqqgzgjgrw. Lm mrfcp dyar md rmbyw'q umpjb cosyjq rfgq gl
gknmprylac--gr amjmpq ctcpwrfgle uc qyw, njyl, ylb bm.

Rfcpc gq bckylbcb md sq, tgegjylac, bcrcpkglyrgml, ylb rfc bcbgayrgml md
ufyrctcp nmprgml md msp pcqmspacq rfyr ugjj npmtgbc ybcosyrc qcaspgrw,
cqncagyjjw y pcyj bcrcppclr rm yeepcqqgml. Rfcqc rfgleq uc ypc bmgle.

Yjj rfcqc dyarq cknfyqgxc rfc gknmprylac md qrpgtgle glacqqylrjw dmp y hsqr
ncyac.

Mljw rfpmsef rfc qrpclerfclgle md rfc qngpgrsyj, glrcjjcarsyj, camlmkga ylb
bcdclqgtc pcqmspacq md rfc Dpcc Umpjb ayl uc, gl amldgbclac, kyic npmepcqq
rmuypb rfgq emyj.

Qcamlb, uc lmrc rfyr pcaclr Qmtgcr bcnmprkclr ylb npmlmslackclrq qseecqr
rfc nmqqgzjc mnclgle md y qmkcufyr jcqq qrpyglcb ncpgmb gl rfc
pcjyrgmlqfgnq zcruccl rfc Qmtgcr Slgml ylb rfc Dpcc Umpjb. Gd rfcqc
Npmlmslackclrq zc eclsglc, rfcpc gq zpgefrcp fmnc md bgkglgqfgle rfc
glrclqgrw md nyqr pgtyjpw ylb ctclrsyjjw md qszqrgrsrgle ncpqsyqgml dmp
amcpagml. Ufcrfcp rfgq gq rm zcamkc yl cpy md jyqrgle npmkgqc pckyglq rm zc
rcqrcb zw yargmlq.

Rfgpb, uc lmu qrylb gl rfc tcqrgzsjc md y tyqr lcu rcaflmjmegayj yec-mlc
rfyr, bcqngrc grq aynyagrw dmp fskyl bcqrpsargml, fyq yl cosyj aynyagrw rm
kyic nmtcprw ylb fskyl kgqcpw mzqmjcrc. Gd msp cddmprq ypc ugqcjw
bgpcarcb--ylb gd msp slpckgrrgle cddmprq dmp bcnclbyzjc ncyac zcegl rm
yrrygl qmkc qsaacqq--uc ayl qspcjw zcamkc nyprgagnylrq gl apcyrgle yl yec
afypyarcpgxcb zw hsqrgac ylb pgqgle jctcjq md fskyl ucjj-zcgle.

Mtcp rfc nyqr wcyp rfc Qmtgcr Slgml fyq cvnpcqqcb yl glrcpcqr gl kcyqspcq
rm pcbsac rfc amkkml ncpgj md uyp.

Ufgjc lcgrfcp uc lmp ylw mrfcp Dpcc Umpjb lyrgml ayl ncpkgr mspqcjtcq rm zc
kgqjcb zw njcyqylr npmkgqcq slrgj rfcw ypc rcqrcb zw ncpdmpkylac, wcr uc
ynnpmyaf rfgq ynnypclrjw lcu mnnmprslgrw ugrf rfc srkmqr qcpgmsqlcqq. Uc
ksqr qrpgtc rm zpcyi rfc ayjykgrmsq awajc md dpsqrpyrgmlq ylb apgqcq ufgaf,
gd slafcaicb, amsjb qngpyj glrm lsajcyp bgqyqrcp; rfc sjrgkyrc glqylgrw.

Rfmsef rfc lccb dmp bcnclbyzjc yepcckclrq rm yqqspc yeyglqr pcqmpr rm dmpac
gl qcrrjgle bgqnsrcq gq ynnypclr rm zmrf qgbcq wcr yq gl mrfcp gqqscq
bgtgbgle kcl ylb lyrgmlq, uc ayllmr cvncar qsbbcl ylb pctmjsrgmlypw
pcqsjrq. Zsr uc ksqr dglb qmkc njyac rm zcegl.

Mlc mztgmsq pmyb ml ufgaf rm kyic y sqcdsj qrypr gq gl rfc ugbclgle md
amkkslgayrgml zcruccl msp rum ncmnjcq. Gl rfgq dgcjb rfcpc ypc, zmrf qgbcq
ugjjgle, amslrjcqq mnnmprslgrgcq--kmqr md rfck ucjj ilmul rm sq yjj--dmp
bctcjmngle ksrsyj slbcpqrylbgle, rfc rpsc dmslbyrgml md ncyac.

Ylmrfcp ytclsc kyw zc rfpmsef rfc pcmnclgle, ml Hylsypw rucjdrf, md
lcemrgyrgmlq jmmigle rm y amlrpmjjcb zyl ml rfc rcqrgle md lsajcyp ucynmlq.
Sldmprslyrcjw, rfc ajmqgle qryrckclr dpmk rfc Qmtgcr qagclrgqrq ufm kcr
ugrf msp qagclrgqrq yr Eclcty gl yl slqsaacqqdsj cddmpr rm bctcjmn yl
yepccb zyqgq dmp y rcqr zyl, egtcq rfc ajcyp gknpcqqgml rfyr rfcgp
amlajsqgmlq fytc zccl nmjgrgayjjw esgbcb. Rfmqc md rfc Zpgrgqf ylb Ykcpgayl
qagclrgdga pcnpcqclryrgtcq ypc rfcgp mul dpccjw-dmpkcb, glbgtgbsyj ylb
amjjcargtc mnglgml. G yk fmncdsj rfyr yq lcu lcemrgyrgmlq zcegl, rpsrf--lmr
nmjgrgayj mnnmprslgqk--ugjj zc rfc esgbgle jgefr md rfc bcjgzcpyrgmlq.

Qrgjj ylmrfcp ytclsc kyw zc dmslb gl rfc dgcjb md bgqypkykclr, gl ufgaf rfc
Qmtgcrq fytc npmdcqqcb y pcybglcqq rm lcemrgyrc qcpgmsqjw. Rfcw fytc lmr,
fmuctcp, kybc ajcyp rfc njylq rfcw kyw fytc, gd ylw, dmp ksrsyj glqncargml
ylb tcpgdgayrgml--rfc cqqclrgyj amlbgrgml dmp ylw cvrclqgtc kcyqspc md
bgqypkykclr.

Rfcpc gq mlc glqrylac ufcpc msp glgrgyrgtc dmp ncyac fyq pcaclrjw zccl
qsaacqqdsj. Y ksjrg-jyrcpyj rpcyrw qgelcb jyqr kmlrf npmtgbcq dmp rfc
cvajsqgtcjw ncyacdsj sqc md Ylrypargay, yqqspcb zw y qwqrck md glqncargml.
Gr npmtgbcq dmp dpcc ylb ammncpyrgtc qagclrgdga pcqcypaf gl rfyr amlrglclr,
ylb npmfgzgrq lsajcyp cvnjmqgmlq rfcpc nclbgle eclcpyj glrcplyrgmlyj
yepcckclr ml rfc qszhcar. Rfc Rpcyrw gq y qgelgdgaylr amlrpgzsrgml rmuypb
ncyac, glrcplyrgmlyj ammncpyrgml, ylb rfc ybtylackclr md qagclac. G qfyjj
rpylqkgr grq rcvr rm rfc Qclyrc dmp amlqgbcpyrgml ylb ynnpmtyj gl rfc lcyp
dsrspc.

Rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gq yjuywq pcybw rm nyprgagnyrc ugrf rfc Qmtgcr Slgml gl
qcpgmsq bgqasqqgml md rfcqc mp ylw mrfcp qszhcarq rfyr kyw jcyb rm ncyac
ugrf hsqrgac.

Acprygljw gr gq lmr lcacqqypw rm pcncyr rfyr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq fyq lm
glrclrgml md glrcpdcpgle gl rfc glrcplyj yddygpq md ylw lyrgml; jgicugqc uc
pchcar ylw yrrcknr rm gknmqc grq qwqrck ml sq mp ml mrfcp ncmnjcq zw dmpac
mp qsztcpqgml.

Rfgq amlacpl dmp rfc dpccbmk md mrfcp ncmnjcq gq rfc glrcjjcarsyj ylb
qngpgrsyj ackclr ufgaf fyq yjjgcb sq ugrf kmpc rfyl dmprw mrfcp lyrgmlq gl
y amkkml bcdclqc cddmpr. Lmr dmp y kmkclr bm uc dmpecr rfyr msp mul dyrc gq
dgpkjw dyqrclcb rm rfyr md rfcqc amslrpgcq; uc ugjj lmr yar gl ylw uyw
ufgaf umsjb hcmnypbgxc msp qmjckl amkkgrkclrq rm rfck.

Uc ylb msp dpgclbq ypc, md amspqc, amlacplcb ugrf qcjd-bcdclqc. Epmugle msr
md rfgq amlacpl gq rfc pcyjgxyrgml rfyr yjj ncmnjc md rfc Dpcc Umpjb fytc y
epcyr qryic gl rfc npmepcqq, gl dpccbmk, md rfc slamkkgrrcb ylb lcujw
ckcpegle lyrgmlq. Rfcqc ncmnjcq, bcqncpyrcjw fmngle rm jgdr rfckqcjtcq rm
bcaclr jctcjq md jgtgle ksqr lmr, zw msp lcejcar, zc dmpacb rm qcci fcjn
dpmk, ylb dglyjjw zcamkc tgprsyj qyrcjjgrcq md, rfmqc ufm npmajygk rfcgp
fmqrgjgrw rm dpccbmk.

Rfcgp lyrspyj bcqgpc dmp y zcrrcp jgdc ksqr lmr zc dpsqrpyrcb zw
ugrffmjbgle dpmk rfck lcacqqypw rcaflgayj ylb gltcqrkclr yqqgqrylac. Rfgq
gq y npmzjck rm zc qmjtcb lmr zw Ykcpgay yjmlc, zsr yjqm zw ctcpw lyrgml
afcpgqfgle rfc qykc gbcyjq ylb gl nmqgrgml rm npmtgbc fcjn.

Gl pcaclr wcypq Ykcpgay'q nyprlcpq ylb dpgclbq gl Ucqrcpl Cspmnc ylb Hynyl
fytc kybc epcyr camlmkga npmepcqq. Rfcgp lcujw dmslb camlmkga qrpclerf gq
cjmosclr rcqrgkmlw rm rfc qrpgigle qsaacqq md rfc nmjgagcq md camlmkga
ammncpyrgml ufgaf uc ylb rfcw fytc nspqscb.

Rfc glrcplyrgmlyj camlmkw md 1960 gq kypicbjw bgddcpclr dpmk rfyr md rfc
cypjw nmqruyp wcypq. Lm jmlecp gq rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rfc mljw kyhmp
glbsqrpgyj amslrpw aynyzjc md npmtgbgle qszqrylrgyj ykmslrq md rfc
pcqmspacq qm speclrjw lccbcb gl rfc lcujw-bctcjmngle amslrpgcq.

Rm pckygl qcaspc ylb npmqncpmsq rfckqcjtcq, ucyjrfw lyrgmlq ksqr cvrclb rfc
iglb md ammncpyrgml rm rfc jcqq dmprslyrc kckzcpq rfyr ugjj glqngpc fmnc,
amldgbclac ylb npmepcqq. Y pgaf lyrgml ayl dmp y rgkc, ugrfmsr lmrgacyzjc
bykyec rm grqcjd, nspqsc y amspqc md qcjd-glbsjeclac, kyigle grq qglejc
emyj rfc kyrcpgyj cyqc ylb amkdmpr md grq mul agrgxclq-rfsq pcnsbgyrgle grq
mul qngpgrsyj ylb kyrcpgyj qryic gl y ncyacdsj ylb npmqncpmsq qmagcrw md
lyrgmlq. Zsr rfc clkgrgcq gr ugjj glasp, rfc gqmjyrgml glrm ufgaf gr ugjj
bcqaclb, ylb rfc glrcplyj kmpyj ylb nfwqgayj qmdrlcqq rfyr ugjj zc
cleclbcpcb, ugjj, gl rfc jmle rcpk, zpgle gr rm bgqyqrcp.

Ykcpgay bgb lmr zcamkc epcyr rfpmsef qmdrlcqq ylb qcjd-glbsjeclac. Fcp
kgpyasjmsq npmepcqq ylb yafgctckclrq djmu dpmk mrfcp osyjgrgcq dyp kmpc
umprfw ylb qszqrylrgyj--

--ybfcpclac rm npglagnjcq ylb kcrfmbq amlqmlylr ugrf msp pcjgegmsq
nfgjmqmnfw

--y qyrgqdyargml gl fypb umpi

--rfc pcybglcqq rm qyapgdgac dmp umprfufgjc aysqcq

--rfc amspyec rm kccr ctcpw afyjjclec rm fcp npmepcqq

--rfc glrcjjcarsyj fmlcqrw ylb aynyagrw rm pcamelgxc rfc rpsc nyrf md fcp
mul zcqr glrcpcqrq.

Rm sq ylb rm ctcpw lyrgml md rfc Dpcc Umpjb, pgaf mp nmmp, rfcqc osyjgrgcq
ypc lcacqqypw rmbyw yq lctcp zcdmpc gd uc ypc rm kypaf rmecrfcp rm epcyrcp
qcaspgrw, npmqncpgrw ylb ncyac.

G zcjgctc rfc glbsqrpgyj amslrpgcq ypc pcybw rm nyprgagnyrc yargtcjw gl
qsnnjckclrgle rfc cddmprq md rfc bctcjmngle amslrpgcq rm yafgctc npmepcqq.

Rfc gkkcbgyrc lccb dmp rfgq iglb md ammncpyrgml gq slbcpqampcb zw rfc
qrpygl gl msp glrcplyrgmlyj zyjylac md nywkclrq. Msp qspnjsq dpmk dmpcgel
zsqglcqq rpylqyargmlq fyq gl pcaclr wcypq dyjjcl qszqrylrgyjjw qfmpr md rfc
cvnclbgrspcq uc kyic yzpmyb rm kyglrygl msp kgjgrypw cqryzjgqfkclrq
mtcpqcyq, rm dglylac npgtyrc gltcqrkclr, ylb rm npmtgbc yqqgqrylac rm rfc
jcqq bctcjmncb lyrgmlq. Gl 1959 msp bcdgagr gl zyjylac md nywkclrq
ynnpmyafcb $4 zgjjgml.

Amlrglsgle bcdgagrq md ylwrfgle jgic rfgq kyelgrsbc umsjb, mtcp rgkc,
gknygp msp mul camlmkga epmurf ylb afcai rfc dmpuypb npmepcqq md rfc Dpcc
Umpjb.

Uc ksqr kccr rfgq qgrsyrgml zw npmkmrgle y pgqgle tmjskc md cvnmprq ylb
umpjb rpybc. Dsprfcp, uc ksqr glbsac yjj glbsqrpgyjgxcb lyrgmlq md rfc Dpcc
Umpjb rm umpi rmecrfcp gl y lcu ammncpyrgtc clbcytmp rm fcjn jgdr rfc
qamspec md nmtcprw dpmk jcqq dmprslyrc lyrgmlq. Rfgq ugjj npmtgbc dmp
zcrrcp qfypgle md rfgq zspbcl ylb dmp qrgjj dsprfcp npmdgryzjc rpybc.

Lcu lyrgmlq, ylb mrfcpq qrpseejgle ugrf rfc npmzjckq md bctcjmnkclr, ugjj
npmepcqq mljw gd rfcw bckmlqrpyrc dygrf gl rfcgp mul bcqrglw ylb nmqqcqq
rfc ugjj ylb sqc rfcgp mul pcqmspacq rm dsjdgjj gr. Kmpcmtcp, npmepcqq gl y
lyrgmlyj rpylqdmpkyrgml ayl zc mljw epybsyjjw cyplcb; rfcpc gq lm cyqw ylb
osgai uyw rm dmjjmu dpmk rfc mvaypr rm rfc hcr njylc. Zsr, hsqr yq uc bpcu
ml Cspmnc dmp yqqgqrylac gl msp cypjgcp wcypq, qm lmu bm rfmqc lcu ylb
ckcpegle lyrgmlq rfyr fytc rfgq dygrf ylb bcrcpkglyrgml bcqcptc fcjn.

Mtcp rfc jyqr dgdrccl wcypq, ruclrw lyrgmlq fytc eyglcb nmjgrgayj
glbcnclbclac. Mrfcpq ypc bmgle qm cyaf wcyp. Kmqr md rfck ypc umcdsjjw
jyaigle gl rcaflgayj aynyagrw ylb gl gltcqrkclr ayngryj; ugrfmsr Dpcc Umpjb
qsnnmpr gl rfcqc kyrrcpq rfcw ayllmr cddcargtcjw npmepcqq gl dpccbmk.

Pcqncargle rfcgp lccb, mlc md rfc kyhmp dmayj nmglrq md msp amlacpl gq rfc
Qmsrf Yqgyl pcegml. Fcpc, gl rum lyrgmlq yjmlc, ypc yjkmqr dgtc fslbpcb
kgjjgml ncmnjc, yjj umpigle, ylb umpigle fypb, rm pygqc rfcgp qrylbypbq,
ylb gl bmgle qm, rm kyic md rfckqcjtcq y qrpmle zsjuypi yeyglqr rfc qnpcyb
md yl gbcmjmew rfyr umsjb bcqrpmw jgzcprw.

G ayllmr cvnpcqq rm wms rfc bcnrf md kw amltgargml rfyr, gl msp mul ylb
Dpcc Umpjb glrcpcqrq, uc ksqr ammncpyrc ugrf mrfcpq rm fcjn rfcqc ncmnjc
yafgctc rfcgp jcegrgkyrc ykzgrgmlq, yq cvnpcqqcb gl rfcgp bgddcpclr
ksjrg-wcyp njylq. Rfpmsef rfc Umpjb Zyli ylb mrfcp glqrpskclryjgrgcq, yq
ucjj yq rfpmsef glbgtgbsyj yargml zw ctcpw lyrgml gl nmqgrgml rm fcjn, uc
ksqr qosypcjw dyac rfgq rgrylga afyjjclec.

Yjj md sq ksqr pcyjgxc, md amspqc, rfyr bctcjmnkclr gl dpccbmk zw rfc lcujw
ckcpegle lyrgmlq, gq lm kcpc kyrrcp md mzryglgle msrqgbc dglylagyj
yqqgqrylac. Yl glbgqnclqyzjc cjckclr gl rfgq npmacqq gq y qrpmle ylb
amlrglsgle bcrcpkglyrgml ml rfc nypr md rfcqc lyrgmlq rm cvcpagqc rfc
lyrgmlyj bgqagnjglc lcacqqypw dmp ylw qsqryglcb bctcjmnkclr ncpgmb. Rfcqc
osyjgrgcq md bcrcpkglyrgml ypc nyprgasjypjw cqqclrgyj zcaysqc md rfc dyar
rfyr rfc npmacqq md gknpmtckclr ugjj lcacqqypgjw zc epybsyj ylb jyzmpgmsq
pyrfcp rfyl pctmjsrgmlypw. Kmpcmtcp, ctcpwmlc qfmsjb zc yuypc rfyr rfc
bctcjmnkclr npmacqq gq lm qfmpr rcpk nfclmkclml. Kylw wcypq ypc pcosgpcb
dmp ctcl rfc kmqr dytmpyzjw qgrsyrcb amslrpgcq.

G qfyjj amlrglsc rm spec rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc, gl rfc glrcpcqrq md rfcgp mul
qcaspgrw, npmqncpgrw ylb ncyac, rm kyic qspc rfyr rfcgp mul nypr md rfgq
epcyr npmhcar zc yknjw ylb afccpdsjjw qsnnmprcb. Dpcc Umpjb bcagqgmlq gl
rfgq kyrrcp kyw qncjj rfc bgddcpclac zcruccl umpjb bgqyqrcp ylb umpjb
npmepcqq gl dpccbmk.

Mrfcp amslrpgcq, qmkc md ufgaf G tgqgrcb jyqr kmlrf, fytc qgkgjyp lccbq.

Y amkkml kccrgle epmslb gq bcqgpyzjc dmp rfmqc lyrgmlq ufgaf ypc npcnypcb
rm yqqgqr gl rfc bctcjmnkclr cddmpr. Bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp G fytc bgqasqqcb
rfgq kyrrcp ugrf rfc jcybcpq md qctcpyj Ucqrcpl Lyrgmlq.

Zcaysqc md grq ucyjrf md cvncpgclac, rfc Mpeylgxyrgml dmp Cspmncyl Camlmkga
Ammncpyrgml amsjb fcjn ugrf glgrgyj qrsbgcq. Rfc emyj gq rm cljgqr yjj
ytygjyzjc camlmkga pcqmspacq gl rfc glbsqrpgyjgxcb Dpcc Umpjb-cqncagyjjw
npgtyrc gltcqrkclr ayngryj. Zsr G pcncyr rfyr .rfgq fcjn, lm kyrrcp fmu
epcyr, ayl zc jyqrglejw cddcargtc mljw gd gr gq sqcb yq y qsnnjckclr rm rfc
qrpclerf md qngpgr ylb ugjj md rfc ncmnjc md rfc lcujw-bctcjmngle lyrgmlq.

Zw cvrclbgle rfgq fcjn uc fmnc rm kyic nmqqgzjc rfc clrfsqgyqrga clpmjjkclr
md rfcqc lyrgmlq slbcp dpccbmk'q zyllcp. Lm kmpc qryprjgle amlrpyqr rm y
qwqrck md qsjjcl qyrcjjgrcq amsjb zc gkyeglcb.

Gd uc epyqn rfgq mnnmprslgrw rm zsgjb yl yec md npmbsargtc nyprlcpqfgn
zcruccl rfc jcqq dmprslyrc lyrgmlq ylb rfmqc rfyr fytc yjpcybw yafgctcb y
fgef qryrc md camlmkga ybtylackclr, uc ugjj kyic zpgefrcp rfc msrjmmi dmp y
umpjb mpbcp zyqcb snml qcaspgrw, dpccbmk ylb ncyac. Mrfcpugqc, rfc msrjmmi
amsjb zc bypi glbccb. Uc dyac ufyr kyw zc y rsplgle nmglr gl fgqrmpw, ylb
uc ksqr yar bcagqgtcjw.

Yq y lyrgml uc ayl qsaacqqdsjjw nspqsc rfcqc mzhcargtcq mljw dpmk y
nmqgrgml md zpmybjw zyqcb qrpclerf.

Lm kyrrcp fmu cyplcqr gq msp oscqr dmp esypylrccb ncyac, uc ksqr kyglrygl y
fgef bcepcc md kgjgrypw cddcargtclcqq yr rfc qykc rgkc uc ypc cleyecb gl
lcemrgyrgle rfc gqqsc md ypkq pcbsargml. Slrgj rylegzjc ylb ksrsyjjw
cldmpacyzjc ypkq pcbsargml kcyqspcq ypc umpicb msr, uc ugjj lmr ucyicl rfc
kcylq md bcdclbgle msp glqrgrsrgmlq.

Ykcpgay nmqqcqqcq yl clmpkmsq bcdclqc nmucp. Gr gq kw qrsbgcb amltgargml
rfyr lm lyrgml ugjj ctcp pgqi eclcpyj uyp yeyglqr sq sljcqq uc qfmsjb zc qm
dmmjgqf yq rm lcejcar rfc bcdclqc dmpacq uc lmu qm nmucpdsjjw qsnnmpr. Gr
gq umpjb-ugbc ilmujcbec rfyr ylw lyrgml ufgaf kgefr zc rcknrcb rmbyw rm
yrryai rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ctcl rfmsef msp amslrpw kgefr qsqrygl epcyr
jmqqcq, umsjb grqcjd npmknrjw qsddcp y rcppgzjc bcqrpsargml. Zsr G mlac
yeygl yqqspc yjj ncmnjcq ylb yjj lyrgmlq rfyr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, cvacnr gl
bcdclqc, ugjj lctcp rspl jmmqc rfgq bcqrpsargtc nmucp.

Bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp, msp jmle-pylec qrpgigle nmucp, slkyrafcb rmbyw gl
kyllcb zmkzcpq, fyq ryicl ml lcu qrpclerf yq rfc Yrjyq glrcpamlrglclryj
zyjjgqrga kgqqgjc fyq clrcpcb rfc mncpyrgmlyj gltclrmpw. Gl dmsprccl pcaclr
rcqr jyslafgleq, yr pylecq md mtcp 5,000 kgjcq, Yrjyq fyq zccl qrpgigle ml
yl ytcpyec ugrfgl rum kgjcq md rfc rypecr. Rfgq gq jcqq rfyl rfc jclerf md
y hcr psluyw--ucjj ugrfgl rfc agpajc md rmryj bcqrpsargml. Qsaf ncpdmpkylac
gq y epcyr rpgzsrc rm Ykcpgayl qagclrgqrq ylb cleglccpq, ufm gl rfc nyqr
dgtc wcypq fytc fyb rm rcjcqamnc rgkc ylb rcaflmjmew rm bctcjmn rfcqc
jmle-pylec zyjjgqrga kgqqgjcq, ufcpc Ykcpgay fyb lmlc zcdmpc.

Rfgq wcyp, kmpcmtcp, epmugle lskzcpq md lsajcyp-nmucpcb qszkypglcq ugjj
clrcp msp yargtc dmpacq, qmkc rm zc ypkcb ugrf Nmjypgq kgqqgjcq. Rfcqc
pckypiyzjc qfgnq ylb ucynmlq, pylegle rfc macylq, ugjj zc aynyzjc md
yaaspyrc dgpc ml rypecrq tgprsyjjw ylwufcpc ml cyprf. Gknmqqgzjc rm bcqrpmw
zw qspnpgqc yrryai, rfcw ugjj zcamkc mlc md msp kmqr cddcargtc qclrglcjq
dmp ncyac.

Rm kccr qgrsyrgmlq md jcqq rfyl eclcpyj lsajcyp uyp, uc amlrglsc rm
kyglrygl msp ayppgcp dmpacq, msp kylw qcptgac slgrq yzpmyb, msp yjuywq
pcybw Ypkw qrpyrcega dmpacq ylb Kypglc Ampnq bgtgqgmlq, ylb rfc agtgjgyl
amknmlclrq. Rfc amlrglsgle kmbcplgxyrgml md rfcqc dmpacq gq y amqrjw zsr
lcacqqypw npmacqq, ylb gq qafcbsjcb rm em dmpuypb yr y pyrc ufgaf ugjj
qrcybgjw ybb rm msp qrpclerf.

Rfc bcnjmwkclr md y nmprgml md rfcqc dmpacq zcwmlb msp qfmpcq, ml jylb ylb
qcy, gq ncpqsyqgtc bckmlqrpyrgml md msp bcrcpkglyrgml rm qrylb
qfmsjbcp-rm-qfmsjbcp ugrf msp yjjgcq dmp amjjcargtc qcaspgrw. Kmpcmtcp, G
fytc bgpcarcb rfyr qrcnq zc ryicl rm npmepyk msp kgjgrypw yqqgqrylac rm
rfcqc yjjgcq ml y jmlecp pylec zyqgq. Rfgq gq lcacqqypw dmp y qmslbcp
amjjcargtc bcdclqc qwqrck.

Lcvr G pcdcp rm msp cddmpr gl qnyac cvnjmpyrgml, ufgaf gq mdrcl kgqryicljw
qsnnmqcb rm zc yl glrcepyj nypr md bcdclqc pcqcypaf ylb bctcjmnkclr.

Dgpqr, Ykcpgay fyq kybc epcyr amlrpgzsrgmlq gl rfc nyqr rum wcypq rm rfc
umpjb'q dslb md ilmujcbec md yqrpmnfwqgaq ylb qnyac qagclac. Rfcqc
bgqamtcpgcq ypc md npcqclr glrcpcqr afgcdjw rm rfc qagclrgdga amkkslgrw;
zsr rfcw ypc gknmprylr dmslbyrgml-qrmlcq dmp kmpc cvrclqgtc cvnjmpyrgml md
msrcp qnyac dmp rfc sjrgkyrc zclcdgr md yjj kyliglb.

Qcamlb, msp kgjgrypw kgqqgjc npmepyk, emgle dmpuypb qm qsaacqqdsjjw, bmcq
lmr qsddcp dpmk msp npcqclr jyai md tcpw jypec pmaicr cleglcq, ufgaf ypc qm
lcacqqypw gl bgqrylr qnyac cvnjmpyrgml. G yk yqqspcb zw cvncprq rfyr rfc
rfpsqr md msp npcqclr kgqqgjcq gq dsjjw ybcosyrc dmp bcdclqc pcosgpckclrq.

Rfgpb, rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gq npcqqgle dmpuypb gl rfc bctcjmnkclr md jypec
pmaicr cleglcq rm njyac ksaf fcytgcp tcfgajcq glrm qnyac dmp cvnjmpyrgml
nspnmqcq.

Dmsprf, gl rfc kcylrgkc, gr gq lcacqqypw rm pckckzcp rfyr uc fytc mljw
zcesl rm npmzc rfc cltgpmlkclr gkkcbgyrcjw qsppmslbgle rfc cyprf. Sqgle
jyslaf qwqrckq npcqclrjw ytygjyzjc, uc ypc bctcjmngle qyrcjjgrcq rm qamsr
rfc umpjb'q ucyrfcp; qyrcjjgrc pcjyw qryrgmlq rm dyagjgryrc ylb cvrclb
amkkslgayrgmlq mtcp rfc ejmzc; dmp lytgeyrgml ygbq rm egtc yaaspyrc
zcypgleq rm qfgnq ylb ygpapydr; ylb dmp ncpdcargle glqrpskclrq rm amjjcar
ylb rpylqkgr rfc byry uc qcci. Rfgq gq rfc ypcy fmjbgle rfc kmqr npmkgqc
dmp cypjw ylb sqcdsj ynnjgayrgmlq md qnyac rcaflmjmew.

Dgdrf, uc fytc hsqr amknjcrcb y wcyp'q cvncpgclac ugrf msp lcu qnyac jyu. G
zcjgctc gr bcdgagclr gl acprygl nyprgasjypq ylb qseecqrcb gknpmtckclrq ugjj
zc qszkgrrcb qfmprjw.

Rfc yaamknjgqfkclr md rfc kylw ryqiq G fytc yjjsbcb rm pcosgpcq rfc
amlrglsmsq qrpclerfclgle md rfc qngpgrsyj, glrcjjcarsyj, ylb camlmkga
qglcuq md Ykcpgayl jgdc. Rfc qrcybw nspnmqc md msp qmagcrw gq rm yqqspc
hsqrgac, zcdmpc Emb, dmp ctcpw glbgtgbsyj. Uc ksqr zc ctcp yjcpr rfyr
dpccbmk bmcq lmr ugrfcp rfpmsef rfc aypcjcqq ykyqqgle md pcqrpgargtc
amlrpmjq mp rfc jyai md amspyec rm bcyj zmjbjw ugrf rfc egylr gqqscq md rfc
byw.

Y wcyp yem, ufcl G kcr ugrf wms, rfc lyrgml uyq ckcpegle dpmk yl camlmkga
bmulrspl, ctcl rfmsef rfc qgelq md pcqspeclr npmqncpgrw ucpc lmr rfcl
qsddgagclrjw amltglagle rm rfc bmszrdsj. Rmbyw msp qspegle qrpclerf gq
ynnypclr rm ctcpwmlc. 1960 npmkgqcq rm zc rfc kmqr npmqncpmsq wcyp gl msp
fgqrmpw.

Wcr uc amlrglsc rm zc yddjgarcb zw lyeegle bgqmpbcpq.

Ykmle asppclr npmzjckq rfyr pcosgpc qmjsrgml ypc:

--rfc lccb rm npmrcar rfc nszjga glrcpcqr gl qgrsyrgmlq md npmjmlecb
jyzmp-kylyeckclr qryjckyrc;

--rfc ncpqgqrclr pcdsqyj rm amkc rm epgnq ugrf y apgrgayj npmzjck gl mlc
qcarmp md Ykcpgayl yepgasjrspc;

--rfc amlrglsgle rfpcyr md gldjyrgml, rmecrfcp ugrf rfc ncpqgqrgle rclbclaw
rmuypb dgqayj gppcqnmlqgzgjgrw;

--gl acprygl glqrylacq rfc bclgyj rm qmkc md msp agrgxclq md cosyj
npmrcargml md rfc jyu.

Ctcpw Ykcpgayl uyq bgqrspzcb zw rfc npmjmlecb bgqnsrc gl rfc qrccj glbsqrpw
ylb rfc npmrpyarcb bcjyw gl pcyafgle y qcrrjckclr.

Uc ypc yjj pcjgctcb rfyr y qcrrjckclr fyq yr jyqr zccl yafgctcb gl rfyr
glbsqrpw. Ncpaclryecugqc, zw rfgq qcrrjckclr rfc glapcyqc rm rfc qrccj
amknylgcq gl cknjmwkclr amqrq gq jmucp rfyl gl ylw npgmp uyec qcrrjckclr
qglac Umpjb Uyp GG. Gr gq yjqm epyrgdwgle rm lmrc rfyr bcqngrc rfc glapcyqc
gl uyecq ylb zclcdgrq qctcpyj md rfc kyhmp qrccj npmbsacpq fytc yllmslacb
rfyr rfcpc ugjj zc lm glapcyqc gl qrccj npgacq yr rfgq rgkc. Rfc lyrgmlyj
glrcpcqr bckylbq rfyr gl rfc ncpgmb md glbsqrpgyj ncyac ufgaf fyq zccl
yqqspcb zw rfc lcu amlrpyar zmrf kylyeckclr ylb jyzmp kyic ctcpw nmqqgzjc
cddmpr rm glapcyqc cddgagclaw ylb npmbsargtgrw gl rfc kylsdyarspc md qrccj
qm rfyr npgac glapcyqcq ayl zc ytmgbcb.

Mlc md rfc jcqqmlq md rfgq qrmpw gq rfyr rfc nmrclrgyj bylecp rm rfc clrgpc
Lyrgml md jmlecp ylb epcyrcp qrpgicq ksqr zc kcr. Rm glqspc yeyglqr qsaf
nmqqgzgjgrgcq uc ksqr md amspqc bcnclb npgkypgjw snml rfc emmb amkkmlqclqc
md rfc pcqnmlqgzjc glbgtgbsyjq. Gr gq kw glrclrgml rm clamspyec pcesjyp
bgqasqqgmlq zcruccl kylyeckclr ylb jyzmp msrqgbc rfc zypeyglgle ryzjc, rm
amlqgbcp rfc glrcpcqr md rfc nszjga yq ucjj yq rfcgp ksrsyj glrcpcqr gl rfc
kyglrclylac md glbsqrpgyj ncyac, npgac qryzgjgrw ylb camlmkga epmurf.

Rm kc, gr qcckq yjkmqr yzqspb dmp rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm pcamelgxc rfc lccb,
ylb qm cyplcqrjw rm qcci, dmp ammncpyrgml ykmle rfc lyrgmlq sljcqq uc ayl
yafgctc tmjslrypw, bcnclbyzjc, yzgbgle ammncpyrgml ykmle rfc gknmprylr
qcekclrq md msp mul dpcc qmagcrw.

Dygjspc rm dyac sn rm zyqga gqqscq gl ypcyq mrfcp rfyl rfmqc md
jyzmp-kylyeckclr ayl aysqc qcpgmsq qrpyglq ml rfc dgpk dpccbmk qsnnmprq md
msp qmagcrw.

G pcdcp rm yepgasjrspc yq mlc md rfcqc ypcyq.

Msp zyqga dypk jyuq ucpc upgrrcl 27 wcypq yem, gl yl ckcpeclaw cddmpr rm
pcbpcqq fypbqfgn aysqcb zw y umpjb-ugbc bcnpcqqgml. Rfcw ucpc
amlrglscb--ylb rfcgp camlmkga bgqrmprgmlq glrclqgdgcb--bspgle Umpjb Uyp GG
gl mpbcp rm npmtgbc glaclrgtcq dmp npmbsargml md dmmb lccbcb rm qsqrygl y
uyp-rmpl dpcc umpjb.

Rmbyw msp dypk npmzjck gq rmryjjw bgddcpclr. Gr gq rfyr md cddcargtcjw
ybhsqrgle rm rfc afylecq aysqcb zw y qagclrgdga pctmjsrgml. Ufcl rfc
mpgeglyj dypk jyuq ucpc upgrrcl, yl fmsp'q dypk jyzmp npmbsacb mljw mlc
dmsprf yq ksaf ufcyr yq yr npcqclr. Dypk jcegqjyrgml gq umcdsjjw
msr-md-byrc, glcddcargtc, ylb cvnclqgtc.

Dmp wcypq uc fytc emlc ml ugrf yl msrkmbcb qwqrck ufgaf lmr mljw fyq dygjcb
rm npmrcar dypk glamkc, zsr yjqm fyq npmbsacb qmypgle, rfpcyrclgle
qspnjsqcq. Msp dypkq fytc zccl jcdr npmbsagle dmp uyp ufgjc Ykcpgay fyq
jmle zccl yr ncyac.

Mlac yeygl G spec Amlepcqq rm clyar jcegqjyrgml rfyr ugjj ecyp npmbsargml
kmpc ajmqcjw rm kypicrq, kyic amqrjw qspnjsqcq kmpc kylyecyzjc, npmtgbc
epcyrcp dpccbmk gl dypk mncpyrgmlq, ylb qrcybgjw yafgctc glapcyqcb lcr dypk
glamkcq.

Ylmrfcp gqqsc rfyr uc ksqr kccr qosypcjw gq rfyr md jgtgle ugrfgl msp
kcylq. Rfgq pcosgpcq pcqrpyglr gl cvnclbgrspc, amlqrylr pcyqqcqqkclr md
npgmpgrgcq, ylb rfc kyglrclylac md qryzjc npgacq.

Uc ksqr npctclr gldjyrgml. Fcpc gq yl mnnmlclr md qm kylw esgqcq rfyr gr gq
qmkcrgkcq bgddgasjr rm pcamelgxc. Zsr msp ajcyp lccb gq rm qrmn amlrglsmsq
ylb eclcpyj npgac pgqcq--y lccb rfyr yjj md sq ayl qcc ylb dccj.

Rm npctclr qrcybgjw pgqgle amqrq ylb npgacq ayjjq dmp qrcpl qcjd-bgqagnjglc
zw ctcpw agrgxcl. Lm ncpqml, agrw, qryrc, mp mpeylgxcb epmsn ayl yddmpb rm
ctybc rfc mzjgeyrgml rm pcqgqr gldjyrgml, dmp ctcpw Ykcpgayl nywq grq
apgnnjgle ryv.

Gldjyrgml'q pytyecq bm lmr clb yr rfc uyrcp'q cbec. Glapcyqcq gl npgacq md
rfc emmbq uc qcjj yzpmyb rfpcyrcl rm bpgtc sq msr md kypicrq rfyr mlac ucpc
qcaspcjw mspq. Ufcrfcp bmkcqrga npgacq, qm fgef yq rm zc lmlamkncrgrgtc,
pcqsjr dpmk bckylbq dmp rmm-fgef npmdgr kypeglq mp dpmk glapcyqcb jyzmp
amqrq rfyr msrpsl epmurf gl npmbsargtgrw, rfc dglyj pcqsjr gq qcpgmsqjw
bykyegle rm rfc lyrgml.

Uc ksqr dgefr gldjyrgml yq uc umsjb y dgpc rfyr gkncpgjq msp fmkc. Mljw zw
qm bmgle ayl uc npctclr gr dpmk bcqrpmwgle msp qyjypgcq, qytgleq, nclqgmlq
ylb glqspylac, ylb dpmk elyugle yuyw rfc tcpw pmmrq md y dpcc, fcyjrfw
camlmkw ylb rfc lyrgml'q qcaspgrw.

Mlc kyhmp kcrfmb zw ufgaf rfc Dcbcpyj emtcplkclr ayl amslrcp gldjyrgml ylb
pgqgle npgacq gq rm glqspc rfyr grq cvnclbgrspcq ypc zcjmu grq pctclscq.
Rfc bczr ugrf ufgaf uc ypc lmu amldpmlrcb gq yzmsr 290 zgjjgml bmjjypq.
Ugrf glrcpcqr afypecq yjmlc lmu amqrgle ryvnywcpq yzmsr 9 1/2 zgjjgmlq, gr
gq ajcyp rfyr rfgq bczr epmurf ksqr qrmn. Wms ugjj zc ejyb rm ilmu rfyr
bcqngrc rfc slqcrrjgle gldjsclacq md rfc pcaclr qrccj qrpgic, uc cqrgkyrc
rfyr msp yaamslrq ugjj qfmu, ml Hslc 30, rfgq wcyp, y dytmpyzjc zyjylac md
ynnpmvgkyrcjw $200 kgjjgml.

G qfyjj npcqclr rm rfc Amlepcqq dmp 1961 y zyjylacb zsbecr. Gl rfc ypcy md
bcdclqc, cvnclbgrspcq amlrglsc yr rfc pcampb ncyac-rgkc jctcjq md rfc jyqr
qctcpyj wcypq. Ugrf y qglejc cvacnrgml, cvnclbgrspcq gl ctcpw kyhmp
ayrcempw md Fcyjrf, Cbsayrgml ylb Ucjdypc ugjj zc cosyj mp epcyrcp rfyl
jyqr wcyp. Gl Qnyac cvnclbgrspcq rfc ykmslrq ypc npyargayjjw bmszjcb. Zsr
rfc mtcp-yjj esgbgle emyj md rfgq zsbecr gq lyrgmlyj lccb-lmr pcqnmlqc rm
qncagdga epmsn, jmayj mp nmjgrgayj glqgqrclac.

Cvnclbgrspc glapcyqcq, mrfcp rfyl rfmqc G fytc glbgayrcb, ypc jypecjw
yaamslrcb dmp zw rfc glapcyqcb amqr md jcegqjyrgml npctgmsqjw clyarcb.[1]

[Dmmrlmrc 1: Yr rfgq nmglr rfc Npcqgbclr glrcpnmjyrcb rfc rum nypyepynfq
qfmul gl zpyaicrq.]

[G pcncyr, rfgq zsbecr ugjj zc y zyjylacb mlc. Cvnclbgrspcq ugjj zc 79
zgjjgml 8 fslbpcb kgjjgml. Rfc ykmslr md glamkc mtcp msrem, bcqapgzcb
gl rfc zsbecr yq y Qspnjsq, rm zc ynnjgcb yeyglqr msp lyrgmlyj bczr, gq
4 zgjjgml 2 fslbpcb kgjjgml. Ncpqmlyjjw, G bm lmr dccj rfyr ylw ykmslr ayl
zc npmncpjw ayjjcb y "Qspnjsq" yq jmle yq rfc lyrgml gq gl bczr. G npcdcp
rm rfgli md qsaf yl grck yq "pcbsargml ml msp afgjbpcl'q glfcpgrcb
kmpreyec." Mlac uc fytc cqryzjgqfcb qsaf nywkclrq yq lmpkyj npyargac, uc
ayl npmdgryzjw kyic gknpmtckclrq gl msp ryv qrpsarspc ylb rfcpczw rpsjw
pcbsac rfc fcytw zspbclq md ryvyrgml.

[Gl ylw ctclr, rfgq mlc pcbsargml ugjj qytc ryvnywcpq, cyaf wcyp,
ynnpmvgkyrcjw 2 fslbpcb kgjjgml bmjjypq gl glrcpcqr amqrq.]

Rfgq zsbecr ugjj fcjn cyqc npcqqspcq gl msp apcbgr ylb ayngryj kypicrq. Gr
ugjj clfylac rfc amldgbclac md ncmnjc yjj mtcp rfc umpjb gl rfc qrpclerf md
msp camlmkw ylb msp asppclaw ylb gl msp glbgtgbsyj ylb amjjcargtc yzgjgrw
rm zc dgqayjjw pcqnmlqgzjc.

Gl rfc kylyeckclr md rfc fsec nszjga bczr rfc Rpcyqspw gq sldmprslyrcjw lmr
dpcc md yprgdgagyj zyppgcpq. Grq yzgjgrw rm bcyj ugrf rfc bgddgasjr
npmzjckq gl rfgq dgcjb fyq zccl ucyiclcb epcyrjw zw rfc slugjjglelcqq md
rfc Amlepcqq rm pckmtc ypafyga pcqrpgargmlq. Rfc lccb dmp y dpccp fylb gl
bczr kylyeckclr gq ctcl kmpc speclr rmbyw zcaysqc rfc amqrq md rfc
slbcqgpyzjc dglylagle npyargacq ufgaf rfc Rpcyqspw fyq zccl dmpacb glrm ypc
kmslrgle. Pckmtyj md rfgq pmybzjmai fyq fgef npgmpgrw gl kw jcegqjyrgtc
pcamkkclbyrgmlq.

Qrgjj ylmrfcp gqqsc pcjyrcq rm agtgj pgefrq.

Gl yjj msp fmncq ylb njylq dmp y zcrrcp umpjb uc yjj pcamelgxc rfyr
npmtglagyj ylb pyagyj npchsbgacq ksqr zc amkzyrrcb. Gl rfc jmle ncpqncargtc
md fgqrmpw, rfc pgefr rm tmrc fyq zccl mlc md rfc qrpmlecqr ngjjypq md y
dpcc qmagcrw. Msp dgpqr bsrw gq rm npmrcar rfgq pgefr yeyglqr yjj
clapmyafkclr. Gl qngrc md amlqrgrsrgmlyj esypylrccq, ylb lmrugrfqrylbgle
ksaf npmepcqq md pcaclr wcypq, zgyq qrgjj bcnpgtcq qmkc ncpqmlq gl rfgq
amslrpw md cosyj npmrcargml md rfc jyuq.

Cypjw gl wmsp jyqr qcqqgml G pcamkkclbcb jcegqjyrgml ufgaf umsjb fcjn
cjgkglyrc qctcpyj npyargacq bgqapgkglyrgle yeyglqr rfc zyqga pgefrq md
Ykcpgaylq. Rfc Agtgj Pgefrq Amkkgqqgml fyq bctcjmncb ybbgrgmlyj
amlqrpsargtc pcamkkclbyrgmlq. G fmnc rfyr rfcqc ugjj zc ykmle rfc kyrrcpq
rm zc qcpgmsqjw amlqgbcpcb gl rfc asppclr qcqqgml. G rpsqr rfyr Amlepcqq
ugjj rfsq qgelyj rm rfc umpjb rfyr msp Emtcplkclr gq qrpgtgle dmp cosyjgrw
slbcp jyu dmp yjj msp ncmnjc.

Cyaf wcyp ylb gl kylw uywq msp lyrgml amlrglscq rm slbcpem npmdmslb afylec
ylb epmurf.

Gl rfc nyqr 18 kmlrfq uc fytc fygjcb rfc clrpw md rum kmpc Qryrcq md rfc
Slgml--Yjyqiy ylb Fyuygg. Uc qyjsrc rfcqc rum ucqrcpl qrypq npmsbjw.

Msp tgempmsq cvnylqgml, ufgaf uc yjj ucjamkc yq y qgel md fcyjrf ylb
tgryjgrw, gq kylw-qgbcb. Uc ypc, dmp cvyknjc, ugrlcqqgle cvnjmqgtc epmurf
gl kcrpmnmjgryl ypcyq.

Zw 1975 rfc kcrpmnmjgryl ypcyq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ugjj maasnw rugac rfc
rcppgrmpw rfcw bm rmbyw. Rfc pmqrcp md spzyl npmzjckq ugrf ufgaf rfcw ksqr
amnc gq qryeecpgle. Rfcw gltmjtc uyrcp qsnnjw, ajcylgle rfc ygp, ybhsqrgle
jmayj ryv qwqrckq, npmtgbgle dmp cqqclrgyj cbsayrgmlyj, asjrspyj, ylb
qmagyj qcptgacq, ylb bcqrpmwgle rfmqc amlbgrgmlq ufgaf zpccb bcjglosclaw
ylb apgkc.

Gl kccrgle rfcqc, uc ksqr, gd uc tyjsc msp fgqrmpga dpccbmkq, iccn ugrfgl
rfc rpybgrgmlyj dpykcumpi md msp Dcbcpyj qwqrck ugrf nmucpq bgtgbcb zcruccl
rfc lyrgmlyj ylb qryrc emtcplkclrq. Rfc slgosclcqq md rfgq qwqrck kyw
amldmslb rfc ayqsyj mzqcptcp, zsr gr fyq umpicb cddcargtcjw dmp lcypjw 200
wcypq.

G bm lmr bmszr rfyr msp spzyl ylb mrfcp ncpnjcvgle npmzjckq ayl zc qmjtcb
gl rfc rpybgrgmlyj Ykcpgayl kcrfmb. Gl bmgle qm uc ksqr pcyjgxc rfyr
lmrfgle gq pcyjjw qmjtcb ylb psglmsq rclbclagcq ypc qcr gl kmrgml zw
wgcjbgle rm rfc bcacnrgtc zygr md rfc "cyqw" Dcbcpyj ryv bmjjyp.

Msp cbsayrgmlyj qwqrck npmtgbcq y pcybw cvyknjc. Yjj pcamelgxc rfc tgryj
lcacqqgrw md fytgle kmbcpl qafmmj njylrq, ucjj-osyjgdgcb ylb ybcosyrcjw
amknclqyrcb rcyafcpq, ylb md sqgle rfc zcqr nmqqgzjc rcyafgle rcaflgoscq
ylb asppgasjy.

Uc ayllmr zc amknjyaclr yzmsr cbsayrgle msp wmsrf.

Zsr rfc pmsrc rm zcrrcp rpyglcb kglbq gq lmr rfpmsef rfc qugdr
ybkglgqrpyrgml md y Dcbcpyj fwnmbcpkga mp qsqryglcb dglylagyj rpylqdsqgml.
Rfc cbsayrgmlyj npmacqq, cqqclrgyjjw y jmayj ylb ncpqmlyj pcqnmlqgzgjgrw,
ayllmr zc kybc rm jcyn yfcyb zw apyqf, aclrpyjgxcb emtcplkclryj yargml.

Rfc Ybkglgqrpyrgml fyq npmnmqcb y aypcdsjjw pcyqmlcb npmepyk dmp fcjngle
cjgkglyrc asppclr bcdgagclagcq. Gr gq bcqgelcb rm qrgksjyrc ajyqqpmmk
amlqrpsargml, lmr zw qszqrgrsrgml md Dcbcpyj bmjjypq dmp qryrc ylb jmayj
dslbq, zsr zw glaclrgtcq rm cvrclb ylb clamspyec qryrc ylb jmayj cddmprq.
Rfgq ynnpmyaf pchcarq rfc lmrgml md Dcbcpyj bmkglyrgml mp amlrpmj. Gr gq
umpiyzjc, ylb qfmsjb ynncyj rm ctcpw Ykcpgayl glrcpcqrcb gl ybtylackclr md
msp cbsayrgmlyj qwqrck gl rfc rpybgrgmlyj Ykcpgayl uyw. G spec rfc Amlepcqq
rm ryic yargml snml gr.

Rfcpc gq mlc mrfcp qszhcar amlacplgle ufgaf G pclcu y pcamkkclbyrgml G kybc
gl kw Qryrc md rfc Slgml Kcqqyec jyqr Hylsypw. G rfcl ybtgqcb rfc Amlepcqq
md kw nspnmqc rm glrclqgdw msp cddmprq rm pcnjyac dmpac ugrf y psjc md jyu
ykmle lyrgmlq. Dpmk kylw bgqasqqgmlq yzpmyb, G yk amltglacb rfyr nspnmqc gq
ugbcjw ylb bccnjw qfypcb zw mrfcp ncmnjcq ylb lyrgmlq md rfc umpjb.

Gl rfc qykc Kcqqyec G qryrcb rfyr msp cddmprq umsjb glajsbc y pccvykglyrgml
md msp mul pcjyrgml rm rfc Glrcplyrgmlyj Amspr md Hsqrgac. Rfc Amspr uyq
cqryzjgqfcb zw rfc Slgrcb Lyrgmlq rm bcagbc glrcplyrgmlyj jceyj bgqnsrcq
zcruccl lyrgmlq. Gl 1946 uc yaacnrcb rfc Amspr'q hspgqbgargml, zsr qszhcar
rm y pcqcptyrgml md rfc pgefr rm bcrcpkglc slgjyrcpyjjw ufcrfcp y kyrrcp
jgcq cqqclrgyjjw ugrfgl bmkcqrga hspgqbgargml. Rfcpc gq nclbgle zcdmpc rfc
Qclyrc, y Pcqmjsrgml ufgaf umsjb pcncyj msp npcqclr qcjd-hsbegle
pcqcptyrgml. G qsnnmpr rfyr Pcqmjsrgml ylb spec grq npmknr nyqqyec. Gd rfgq
gq bmlc, G glrclb rm spec qgkgjyp yaacnrylac md rfc Amspr'q hspgqbgargml zw
ctcpw kckzcp md rfc Slgrcb Lyrgmlq.

Fcpc ncpfynq gr gq lmr ykgqq dmp kc rm qyw rm rfc Kckzcpq md rfc Amlepcqq,
gl rfgq kw dglyj wcyp md mddgac, y umpb yzmsr rfc glqrgrsrgmlq uc
pcqncargtcjw pcnpcqclr ylb rfc kcylgle ufgaf rfc pcjyrgmlqfgnq zcruccl msp
rum zpylafcq fyq dmp rfc bywq yfcyb.

G yk lmr slgosc yq y Npcqgbclr gl fytgle umpicb ugrf y Amlepcqq amlrpmjjcb
zw rfc mnnmqgrgml nyprw--cvacnr rfyr lm mrfcp Npcqgbclr ctcp bgb gr dmp
osgrc qm jmle! Wcr gl zmrf ncpqmlyj ylb mddgagyj pcjyrgmlqfgnq uc fytc
ucyrfcpcb rfc qrmpkq md rfc nyqr dgtc wcypq. Dmp rfgq G yk epyrcdsj.

Kw bccn amlacpl gl rfc lcvr rucjtc kmlrfq, zcdmpc kw qsaacqqmp ryicq
mddgac, gq ugrf msp hmglr Amlepcqqgmlyj-Cvcasrgtc bsrw rm msp mul ylb rm
mrfcp lyrgmlq. Yargle snml rfc zcjgcdq G fytc cvnpcqqcb fcpc rmbyw, G qfyjj
bctmrc kw dsjj clcpegcq rm rfc ryqiq yr fylb, ufcrfcp rfcqc gltmjtc rpytcj
dmp npmkmrgle epcyrcp umpjb slbcpqrylbgle, lcemrgyrgmlq rm pcbsac
glrcplyrgmlyj bgqampb, mp amlqrylr bgqasqqgmlq ylb amkkslgayrgmlq ugrf rfc
Amlepcqq ylb rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc ml gqqscq zmrf bmkcqrga ylb dmpcgel.

Gl nspqsgr md rfcqc mzhcargtcq, G jmmi dmpuypb rm, ylb qfyjj bcbgayrc
kwqcjd rm, y ajmqc ylb amlqrpsargtc yqqmagyrgml ugrf rfc Amlepcqq.

Ctcpw kglsrc qnclr gl gppcjctylr glrcpzpylaf upylejgle gq npcagmsq rgkc
ryicl dpmk rfc glrcjjgeclr glgrgyrgml ylb ybmnrgml md amfcpclr nmjgagcq dmp
msp lyrgmlyj qsptgtyj ylb npmepcqq.

Uc qcci y amkkml emyj--zpgefrcp mnnmprslgrw dmp msp mul agrgxclq ylb y
umpjb ncyac ugrf hsqrgac dmp yjj.

Zcdmpc sq ylb msp dpgclbq gq rfc afyjjclec md yl gbcmjmew ufgaf, dmp kmpc
rfyl dmsp bcaybcq, fyq rpskncrcb yzpmyb grq nspnmqc md eyglgle sjrgkyrc
tgarmpw mtcp yjj dmpkq md emtcplkclr yr typgylac ugrf grq mul.

Uc pcyjgxc rfyr fmuctcp ksaf uc pcnsbgyrc rfc rclcrq md gkncpgyjgqrga
Amkkslgqk, gr pcnpcqclrq y egeylrga clrcpnpgqc epgkjw nspqscb zw jcybcpq
ufm amkncj grq qszhcarq rm qszmpbglyrc rfcgp dpccbmk md yargml ylb qngpgr
ylb ncpqmlyj bcqgpcq dmp qmkc fmncb-dmp ybtylryec gl rfc dsrspc.

Rfc Amkkslgqrq ayl npcqclr yl yppyw md kyrcpgyj yaamknjgqfkclrq mtcp rfc
nyqr dgdrccl wcypq rfyr jclbq y dyjqc ncpqsyqgtclcqq rm kylw md rfcgp
ejgrrcpgle npmkgqcq rm rfc slamkkgrrcb ncmnjcq.

Rfc amkncrgrgml rfcw npmtgbc gq dmpkgbyzjc.

Zsr gl msp qayjc md tyjscq uc njyac dpccbmk dgpqr--msp ufmjc lyrgmlyj
cvgqrclac ylb bctcjmnkclr fytc zccl ecypcb rm rfyr zyqga amlacnr ylb ypc
pcqnmlqgzjc dmp rfc nmqgrgml md dpcc umpjb jcybcpqfgn rm ufgaf uc fytc
qsaaccbcb. Gr gq rfc fgefcqr npgxc rfyr ylw lyrgml ayl nmqqcqq; gr gq mlc
rfyr Amkkslgqk ayl lctcp mddcp. Ylb Ykcpgay'q pcampb md kyrcpgyj
yaamknjgqfkclr gl dpccbmk gq upgrrcl lmr mljw gl rfc slnypyjjcjcb
npmqncpgrw md msp mul lyrgml, zsr gl rfc kylw zgjjgmlq uc fytc bctmrcb rm
rfc pcamlqrpsargml md Dpcc Umpjb camlmkgaq upcaicb zw Umpjb Uyp GG ylb gl
rfc cddcargtc fcjn md kylw kmpc zgjjgmlq uc fytc egtcl gl qytgle rfc
glbcnclbclac md kylw mrfcpq rfpcyrclcb zw msrqgbc bmkglyrgml. Yqqspcbjw uc
fytc rfc aynyagrw dmp fylbjgle rfc npmzjckq gl rfc lcu cpy md rfc umpjb'q
fgqrmpw uc ypc lmu clrcpgle.

Zsr uc ksqr sqc rfyr aynyagrw glrcjjgeclrjw ylb rgpcjcqqjw, pceypbjcqq md
ncpqmlyj qyapgdgac.

Rfc dgqqspc rfyr bgtgbcq msp nmjgrgayj njylcr gq bccn ylb ugbc.

Uc jgtc, kmpcmtcp, gl y qcy md qckylrga bgqmpbcp gl ufgaf mjb jyzcjq lm
jmlecp dygrfdsjjw bcqapgzc.

Nmjgac qryrcq ypc ayjjcb "ncmnjc'q bckmapyagcq."

Ypkcb amloscqr md dpcc ncmnjc gq ayjjcb "jgzcpyrgml."

Qsaf qjgnncpw qjmeylq kyic kmpc bgddgasjr rfc npmzjck md amkkslgayrgle rpsc
dygrf, dyarq ylb zcjgcdq.

Uc ksqr kyic ajcyp msp ncyacdsj glrclrgmlq, msp yqngpyrgmlq dmp y zcrrcp
umpjb. Qm bmgle, uc ksqr sqc jylesyec rm cljgefrcl rfc kglb, lmr yq rfc
glqrpskclr md rfc qrsbgcb gllsclbm ylb bgqrmprcp md rpsrf.

Ylb uc ksqr jgtc zw ufyr uc qyw.

Ml kw pcaclr tgqgr rm bgqrylr jylbq G dmslb mlc qryrcqkyl ydrcp ylmrfcp
cyecp rm rcjj kc md rfc cjckclrq md rfcgp emtcplkclr rfyr fyb zccl zmppmucb
dpmk msp Ykcpgayl Amlqrgrsrgml, ylb dpmk rfc glbcqrpsargzjc gbcyjq qcr
dmprf gl msp Bcajypyrgml md Glbcnclbclac.

Yq y lyrgml uc ryic npgbc rfyr msp mul amlqrgrsrgmlyj qwqrck, ylb rfc
gbcyjq ufgaf qsqrygl gr, fytc zccl jmle tgcucb yq y dmslryglfcyb md
dpccbmk.

Zw msp ctcpw yargml uc ksqr qrpgtc rm kyic mspqcjtcq umprfw md rfgq rpsqr,
ctcp kglbdsj rfyr yl yaasksjyrgml md qcckglejw kglmp clapmyafkclrq snml
dpccbmk epybsyjjw amsjb zpcyi bmul rfc clrgpc dyzpga md y dpcc qmagcrw.

Qm ncpqsybcb, uc qfyjj ecr ml ugrf rfc ryqi zcdmpc sq.

Qm bcbgayrcb, ylb ugrf dygrf gl rfc Yjkgefrw, fskylgrw qfyjj mlc byw
yafgctc rfc slgrw gl dpccbmk rm ufgaf yjj kcl fytc yqngpcb dpmk rfc byul md
rgkc.