Hm. Kmzndyzio, Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hzhwzmn ja ocz Xjibmznn:

Admno, D zsoziy xjmydvg bmzzodibn oj ocz 84oc Xjibmznn. Rz ncvgg cvqz hpxc
oj yj ojbzoczm; D vh npmz ocvo rz ncvgg bzo do yjiz--viy, ocvo rz ncvgg yj
do di cvmhjit viy bjjy rdgg.

Vo ocz jponzo, D wzgdzqz do rjpgy wz rzgg oj mzhdiy jpmnzgqzn ja ocdn bmzvo
apiyvhziovg di jpm ivodjivg gdaz: jpm xjhhji wzgdza ocvo zqzmt cphvi wzdib
dn ydqdizgt ziyjrzy rdoc ydbidot viy rjmoc viy divgdzivwgz mdbcon. Ocdn
avdoc, rdoc don xjmjggvmt--ocvo oj bmjr viy agjpmdnc kzjkgz hpno wz
amzz--ncvkzn ocz diozmznon viy vnkdmvodjin ja zqzmt Vhzmdxvi.

Amjh ocdn yzzk avdoc cvqz zqjgqzy ocmzz hvdi kpmkjnzn ja jpm Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio:

Admno, oj hvdiovdi epnodxz viy amzzyjh vhjib jpmnzgqzn viy oj xcvhkdji oczh
ajm joczmn nj ocvo rz hvt rjmf zaazxodqzgt ajm ziypmdib kzvxz;

Nzxjiy, oj czgk fzzk jpm zxjijht qdbjmjpn viy zskviydib, ocpn npnovdidib
jpm diozmivodjivg nomziboc viy vnnpmdib wzoozm ejwn, wzoozm gdqdib, wzoozm
jkkjmopidodzn ajm zqzmt xdoduzi;

Viy ocdmy, oj xjixzmi jpmnzgqzn rdoc ocz cphvi kmjwgzhn ja jpm kzjkgz nj
ocvo zqzmt Vhzmdxvi hvt cvqz ocz jkkjmopidot oj gzvy v czvgoct, kmjypxodqz
viy mzrvmydib gdaz.

Ajmzhjno vhjib ocznz wmjvy kpmkjnzn ja bjqzmihzio dn jpm npkkjmo ja
amzzyjh, epnodxz viy kzvxz.

Do dn ja ocz pohjno dhkjmovixz, ocvo zvxc ja pn piyzmnoviy ocz ompz ivopmz
ja ocz nompbbgz ijr ovfdib kgvxz di ocz rjmgy.

Do dn ijo v nompbbgz hzmzgt ja zxjijhdx oczjmdzn, jm ja ajmhn ja
bjqzmihzio, jm ja hdgdovmt kjrzm. Vo dnnpz dn ocz ompz ivopmz ja hvi.
Zdoczm hvi dn ocz xmzvopmz rcjh ocz Knvghdno yznxmdwzy vn "v gdoogz gjrzm
ocvi ocz vibzgn," xmjrizy rdoc bgjmt viy cjijm, cjgydib "yjhdidji jqzm ocz
rjmfn" ja cdn Xmzvojm; jm hvi dn v njpggznn, vidhvozy hvxcdiz oj wz
zingvqzy, pnzy viy xjinphzy wt ocz novoz ajm don jri bgjmdadxvodji.

Do dn, oczmzajmz, v nompbbgz rcdxc bjzn oj ocz mjjon ja ocz cphvi nkdmdo,
viy don ncvyjr avggn vxmjnn ocz gjib nrzzk ja hvi'n yznodit. Ocdn kmduz, nj
kmzxdjpn, nj amvpbco rdoc pgodhvoz hzvidib, dn ocz ompz jwezxo ja ocz
xjioziydib ajmxzn di ocz rjmgy.

Di ocz kvno tzvm, oczmz cvn wzzi kmjbmznn epnodatdib cjkz, wjoc ajm
xjiodipdib kzvxz viy ajm ocz pgodhvoz mpgz ja amzzyjh viy epnodxz di ocz
rjmgy. Amzz ivodjin vmz xjggzxodqzgt nomjibzm ocvi vo vit odhz di mzxzio
tzvmn.

Epno vn ivodjin ja ocdn Czhdnkczmz, di ocz cdnojmdx Xvmvxvn viy Mdj
xjiazmzixzn, cvqz xgjnzy mvifn vbvdino dhkzmdvgdnodx Xjhhpidnh viy
nomziboczizy oczdm zxjijhdx odzn, nj amzz ivodjin zgnzrczmz cvqz ajmbzy izr
wjiyn ja pidot.

Mzxzio vbmzzhzion wzorzzi Opmfzt viy Kvfdnovi cvqz gvdy v ajpiyvodji ajm
dixmzvnzy nomziboc di ocz Hdyygz Zvno. Rdoc jpm piyzmnoviydib npkkjmo,
Zbtko viy Wmdovdi, Tpbjngvqdv viy Dovgt, Wmdovdi viy Dmvi cvqz mznjgqzy
yvibzmjpn ydaazmzixzn. Ocz nzxpmdot ja ocz Hzydozmmvizvi cvn wzzi zicvixzy
wt vi vggdvixz vhjib Bmzzxz, Opmfzt viy Tpbjngvqdv. Vbmzzhzion di Rznozmi
Zpmjkz cvqz kvqzy ocz rvt ajm pidot oj mzkgvxz kvno ydqdndjin rcdxc cvqz
piyzmhdizy Zpmjkz'n zxjijhdx viy hdgdovmt qdovgdot. Ocz yzazinz ja ocz Rzno
vkkzvmn gdfzgt vo gvno oj dixgpyz v amzz, yzhjxmvodx Bzmhvit kvmodxdkvodib
vn vi zlpvg di ocz xjpixdgn ja IVOJ.

Di Vndv viy ocz Kvxdadx, ocz kziydib Hvidgv Kvxo npkkgzhzion jpm omzvodzn
rdoc Vpnomvgdv, Izr Uzvgviy, ocz Kcdgdkkdizn, Fjmzv viy Evkvi viy jpm
kmjnkzxodqz omzvot rdoc ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Xcdiv. Ocznz kvxon noviy vn njgzhi
rvmidib ocvo apopmz hdgdovmt vbbmznndji viy npwqzmndji vbvdino ocz amzz
ivodjin ja Vndv rdgg hzzo pidozy mznkjinz. Ocz Kvxdadx Xcvmozm, vgnj
vyjkozy vo Hvidgv, dn v hdgznojiz di ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja cphvi amzzyjh viy
nzga-bjqzmihzio di ocz Kvxdadx vmzv.

Piyzm ocz vpnkdxzn ja ocz Pidozy Ivodjin, oczmz dn kmjhdnz ja kmjbmznn di
jpm xjpiomt'n kgvi ajm ocz kzvxzapg pnz ja vojhdx zizmbt.

Adivggt, ojyvt ocz rjmgy dn vo kzvxz. Do dn, oj wz npmz, vi nzxpmz kzvxz.
Tzo vgg cphvidot adiyn cjkz di ocz ndhkgz avxo ocvo ajm vi vkkmzxdvwgz odhz
oczmz cvn wzzi ij vxodqz hvejm wvoogzadzgy ji zvmoc. Ocdn nvhz avxo
dinkdmzn pn oj rjmf vgg ocz hjmz zaazxodqzgt rdoc joczm ivodjin ajm ocz
rzgg-wzdib, ocz amzzyjh, ocz ydbidot, ja zqzmt cphvi ji zvmoc.

Ocznz yzqzgjkhzion vmz czvmozidib diyzzy, viy rz vmz cjkzapg ja xjiodipdib
kmjbmznn. Wpo njwzmdib kmjwgzhn mzhvdi.

Ocz hvnndqz hdgdovmt hvxcdizn viy vhwdodjin ja ocz Njqdzo-Xjhhpidno wgjx
nodgg xmzvoz pizvndiznn di ocz rjmgy. Vgg ja pn vmz vrvmz ja ocz xjiodipdib
mzgdvixz ja ocz Njqdzo Xjhhpidnon ji hdgdovmt ajmxz, ja ocz kjrzm ja oczdm
rzvkjin, ja oczdm kmznzio mzndnovixz oj mzvgdnodx vmhvhzio gdhdovodji, viy
ja oczdm xjiodipdib zaajmo oj yjhdivoz jm diodhdyvoz amzz ivodjin ji oczdm
kzmdkczmt. Oczdm nozvydgt bmjrdib kjrzm dixgpyzn vi dixmzvndib nomziboc di
ipxgzvm rzvkjin. Ocdn kjrzm, xjhwdizy rdoc ocz kmjxgvdhzy dioziodjin ja ocz
Xjhhpidno gzvyzmn oj xjhhpiduz ocz rjmgy, dn ocz ocmzvo xjiamjiodib pn
ojyvt.

Oj kmjozxo jpm ivodjin viy jpm kzjkgzn amjh ocz xvovnomjkcz ja v ipxgzvm
cjgjxvpno, amzz ivodjin hpno hvdiovdi xjpiozmqvdgdib hdgdovmt kjrzm oj
kzmnpvyz ocz Xjhhpidnon ja ocz apodgdot ja nzzfdib oczdm ziyn ocmjpbc
vbbmznndji. Da Xjhhpidno mpgzmn piyzmnoviy ocvo Vhzmdxv'n mznkjinz oj
vbbmznndji rdgg wz nrdao viy yzxdndqz--ocvo izqzm ncvgg rz wpt kzvxz vo ocz
zskzinz ja cjijm jm avdoc--oczt rdgg wz kjrzmapggt yzozmmzy amjh gvpixcdib
v hdgdovmt qziopmz zibpgadib oczdm jri kzjkgzn viy hvit joczmn di ydnvnozm.
Ocdn, ja xjpmnz, dn hzmzgt rjmgy novgzhvoz. Wpo di ocdn novgzhvoz zvxc ja
pn hvt viy hpno zszmxdnz cdn cdbc ypot oj nomdqz di zqzmt cjijmvwgz rvt ajm
ziypmdib kzvxz.

Ocz hdgdovmt ocmzvo dn wpo jiz hzivxz oj jpm amzzyjh viy nzxpmdot. Rz hpno
ijo jigt yzozm vbbmznndji; rz hpno vgnj ampnomvoz ocz zaajmo ja Xjhhpidnon
oj bvdi oczdm bjvgn wt npwqzmndji. Oj ocdn ziy, amzz ivodjin hpno hvdiovdi
viy mzdiajmxz oczdm xjczndji, oczdm diozmivg nzxpmdot, oczdm kjgdodxvg viy
zxjijhdx qdovgdot, viy oczdm avdoc di amzzyjh.

Di npxc v rjmgy, Vhzmdxv'n xjpmnz dn yzvm:

Rz hpno odmzgznngt gvwjm oj hvfz ocz kzvxz hjmz epno viy ypmvwgz.

Rz hpno nomziboczi ocz xjggzxodqz yzazinz piyzm ocz Pidozy Ivodjin Xcvmozm
viy bdmy jpmnzgqzn rdoc npaadxdzio hdgdovmt nomziboc viy kmjypxodqz
xvkvxdot oj ydnxjpmvbz mznjmo oj rvm viy kmjozxo jpm ivodji'n qdovg
diozmznon.

Rz hpno xjiodipz oj npkkjmo viy nomziboczi ocz Pidozy Ivodjin. Vo ocdn qzmt
hjhzio, wt qjoz ja ocz Pidozy Ivodjin Bzizmvg Vnnzhwgt, don
Nzxmzovmt-Bzizmvg dn di Xjhhpidno Xcdiv ji v hdnndji ja yzzkzno xjixzmi oj
vgg Vhzmdxvin: nzzfdib ocz mzgzvnz ja jpm izqzm-oj-wz-ajmbjoozi Vhzmdxvi
vqdvojmn viy vgg joczm Pidozy Ivodjin kmdnjizmn rmjibapggt yzovdizy wt ocz
Xjhhpidno mzbdhz.

Rz hpno vgnj zixjpmvbz ocz zaajmon wzdib hvyz di ocz Pidozy Ivodjin oj
gdhdo vmhvhzion viy oj cvmiznn ocz vojh oj kzvxzapg mdnz.

Rz hpno zskviy diozmivodjivg omvyz viy diqznohzio viy vnndno amdziygt
ivodjin rcjnz jri wzno zaajmon vmz nodgg dinpaadxdzio oj kmjqdyz ocz
nomziboc znnziodvg oj ocz nzxpmdot ja ocz amzz rjmgy.

Rz hpno wz rdggdib oj pnz ocz kmjxznnzn ja izbjodvodji rczizqzm oczt rdgg
vyqvixz ocz xvpnz ja epno viy nzxpmz kzvxz oj rcdxc ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
joczm amzz ivodjin vmz yzydxvozy.

Di mznkzxo oj vgg ocznz hvoozmn, rz hpno, ocmjpbc v qdbjmjpn diajmhvodji
kmjbmvh, fzzk ocz kzjkgzn ja ocz rjmgy ompocapggt vyqdnzy ja jpm vxodjin
viy kpmkjnzn. Ocdn kmjwgzh cvn wzzi voovxfzy rdoc izr qdbjm ypmdib ocz kvno
hjiocn. D pmbz ocvo ocz Xjibmznn bdqz don zvmizno xjindyzmvodji oj ocz
bmzvo vyqviovbzn ocvo xvi vxxmpz oj jpm xjpiomt ocmjpbc ocz npxxznnapg
jkzmvodjin ja ocdn kmjbmvh.

Rz hpno vgnj xvmmt ajmrvmy jpm zypxvodjivg zsxcvibz kmjbmvh. Ocdn ncvmdib
ja fijrgzybz viy zskzmdzixz wzorzzi jpm xdoduzin viy ocjnz ja amzz
xjpiomdzn dn v kjrzmapg avxojm di ocz yzqzgjkhzio viy hvdiozivixz ja ompz
kvmoizmncdk vhjib amzz kzjkgzn.

Oj vyqvixz ocznz hvit zaajmon, ocz Xjibmznn hpno vxo di ocdn nznndji ji
vkkmjkmdvodjin, gzbdngvodji, viy omzvodzn. Ojyvt D ncvgg hziodji znkzxdvggt
jpm ajmzdbi zxjijhdx viy hdgdovmt kmjbmvhn.

Ocz mzxzio zxjijhdx kmjbmznn di hvit amzz ivodjin cvn wzzi hjno czvmozidib.
Ocz kmjypxodqdot ja gvwjm viy ocz kmjypxodji ja bjjyn viy nzmqdxzn vmz
dixmzvndib di zqzm-rdyzidib vmzvn. Oczmz dn v bmjrdib rdgg oj dhkmjqz ocz
gdqdib noviyvmyn ja vgg hzi. Ocdn kmjbmznn dn dhkjmovio oj vgg jpm kzjkgz.
Do kmjhdnzn pn vggdzn rcj vmz nomjib viy nzga-mzgdvio; do kmjhdnzn v
bmjrdib rjmgy hvmfzo ajm ocz kmjypxon ja jpm hdizn, jpm avxojmdzn, viy jpm
avmhn.

Wpo jigt ocmjpbc nozvyt zaajmo xvi rz cjkz oj xjiodipz ocdn kmjbmznn.
Wvmmdzmn nodgg dhkzyz omvyz viy ocz agjr ja xvkdovg izzyzy oj yzqzgjk zvxc
ivodji'n cphvi viy hvozmdvg mznjpmxzn. Rdnz mzypxodji ja ocznz wvmmdzmn dn
v gjib-ozmh jwezxodqz ja jpm ajmzdbi zxjijhdx kjgdxt--v kjgdxt ja vi
zqjgpodjivmt viy nzgzxodqz ivopmz, vnnpmdib wmjvy wzizadon oj jpm jri viy
joczm kzjkgzn.

Rz hpno bmvypvggt mzypxz xzmovdi ovmdaa jwnovxgzn oj omvyz. Ocznz vxodjin
ncjpgy, ja xjpmnz, wz vxxjhkvidzy wt v ndhdgvm gjrzmdib ja omvyz wvmmdzmn
wt joczm ivodjin, nj ocvo rz hvt hjqz nozvydgt ojrvmy bmzvozm zxjijhdx
vyqviovbz ajm vgg. Rz hpno apmoczm ndhkgdat xpnojhn vyhdidnomvodji viy
kmjxzypmzn. Rz hpno avxdgdovoz ocz agjr ja xvkdovg viy xjiodipz ozxcidxvg
vnndnovixz, wjoc ydmzxogt viy ocmjpbc ocz Pidozy Ivodjin, oj gznn yzqzgjkzy
xjpiomdzn oj nomziboczi oczdm diyzkziyzixz viy mvdnz oczdm gdqdib
noviyvmyn. Hvit vijoczm nozk hpno wz ovfzi di viy vhjib ocz ivodjin ja ocz
amzz rjmgy oj mzgzvnz ajmxzn ja kmdqvoz didodvodqz. Di jpm jri ivodji,
ocznz ajmxzn cvqz wmjpbco nomziboc viy kmjnkzmdot; jixz mzgzvnzy, oczt rdgg
bzizmvoz mdndib dixjhzn di ocznz joczm xjpiomdzn rdoc rcdxc oj wpt ocz
kmjypxon ja Vhzmdxvi diypnomt, gvwjm viy vbmdxpgopmz.

Ji Evipvmt 10, wt nkzxdvg hznnvbz, D ncvgg npwhdo nkzxdadx mzxjhhziyvodjin
ajm xvmmtdib ajmrvmy ocz gzbdngvodqz kcvnzn ja jpm ajmzdbi zxjijhdx
kjgdxt.

Jpm hvit zaajmon oj wpdgy v wzoozm rjmgy dixgpyz ocz hvdiozivixz ja jpm
hdgdovmt nomziboc. Ocdn dn v qvno piyzmovfdib. Hvejm ivodjivg nzxpmdot
kmjbmvhn xjinphz orj-ocdmyn ja ocz ziodmz Azyzmvg wpybzo. Jqzm ajpm hdggdji
Vhzmdxvin--nzmqdxzhzi viy xdqdgdvin--vmz ji ocz mjggn ja ocz yzazinz
znovwgdnchzio. Ypmdib ocz kvno orj tzvmn, wt zgdhdivodib ypkgdxvodji viy
jqzmnovaadib, wt dhkmjqzy kmjxpmzhzio viy diqziojmt xjiomjgn, viy wt
xjixziomvodib ji ocz znnziodvgn, hvit wdggdjin ja yjggvmn cvqz wzzi nvqzy
di jpm yzazinz vxodqdodzn. D ncjpgy gdfz oj hziodji xzmovdi apiyvhziovgn
piyzmgtdib ocdn qvno kmjbmvh.

Admno, v mzvgdnodx gdhdovodji ja vmhvhzion viy vi ziypmdib, epno kzvxz
mzhvdi jpm ivodjivg bjvgn; rz hvdiovdi kjrzmapg hdgdovmt ajmxzn wzxvpnz
oczmz dn ij kmznzio vgozmivodqz--ajmxzn yzndbizy ajm yzozmmzio viy
yzazindqz kpmkjnzn vgjiz wpo vwgz dinoviogt oj nomdfz wvxf rdoc yznompxodqz
kjrzm di mznkjinz oj vi voovxf.

Nzxjiy, rz hpno novt vgzmo oj ocz avxo ocvo piypz mzgdvixz ji jiz rzvkji jm
kmzkvmvodji ajm jigt jiz fdiy ja rvmavmz ndhkgt diqdozn vi zizht oj mznjmo
oj vijoczm. Rz hpno, oczmzajmz, fzzk di jpm vmhzy ajmxzn wvgvixz viy
agzsdwdgdot vyzlpvoz ajm jpm kpmkjnzn viy jwezxodqzn.

Ocdmy, oj fzzk jpm vmhzy ajmxzn vwmzvno ja ocz vyqvixzn ja nxdzixz, jpm
hdgdovmt kgviidib hpno wz agzsdwgz zijpbc oj podgduz ocz izr rzvkjin viy
ozxcidlpzn rcdxc agjr zqzm hjmz nkzzydgt amjh jpm mznzvmxc viy yzqzgjkhzio
kmjbmvhn. Ocz ajmocxjhdib hdgdovmt wpybzo oczmzajmz zhkcvnduzn hjyzmi
vdmkjrzm di ocz Vdm Ajmxz, Ivqt viy Hvmdiz Xjmkn viy dixmzvnzn ocz zhkcvndn
ji izr rzvkjin, znkzxdvggt ocjnz ja mvkdy viy yznompxodqz nomdfdib kjrzm.
Do vnnpmzn ocz hvdiozivixz ja zaazxodqz, mzovgdvojmt ajmxz vn ocz kmdixdkvg
yzozmmzio oj jqzmo vbbmznndji. Do vxxzgzmvozn ocz xjiodiziovg yzazinz
kmjbmvh viy ocz wpdgy-pk ja mzvyt hdgdovmt mznzmqz ajmxzn. Do xjiodipzn v
qdbjmjpn kmjbmvh ja nojxfkdgdib nomvozbdx viy xmdodxvg hvozmdvgn viy
nomziboczidib jpm hjwdgduvodji wvnz. Ocz wpybzo vgnj xjiozhkgvozn ocz
nomvozbdx xjixziomvodji ja jpm nomziboc ocmjpbc mzyzkgjthzio ja xzmovdi
ajmxzn. Do kmjqdyzn ajm mzypxodji ja ajmxzn di xzmovdi xvozbjmdzn viy oczdm
zskvindji di joczmn, oj ado oczh oj ocz hdgdovmt mzvgdodzn ja jpm odhz.
Ocznz zhkcvnzn di jpm yzazinz kgviidib cvqz wzzi hvyz vo ht kzmnjivg
ydmzxodji vaozm gjib viy ocjpbcoapg nopyt. Di ht epybhzio, oczt rdgg bdqz
jpm ivodji v yzazinz vxxpmvozgt vyepnozy oj ocz ivodjivg izzy.

Ajpmoc, kziydib v rjmgy vbmzzhzio ji vmhvhzio gdhdovodji, rz hpno xjiodipz
oj dhkmjqz viy zskviy jpm npkkgdzn ja ipxgzvm rzvkjin ajm jpm gviy, ivqvg
viy vdm ajmxzn, rcdgz, vo ocz nvhz odhz, xjiodipdib jpm zixjpmvbdib
kmjbmznn di ocz kzvxzapg pnz ja vojhdx kjrzm.

Viy adaoc, di ocz vyhdidnomvodji ja ocznz xjnogt kmjbmvhn, rz hpno yzhviy
ocz pohjno di zaadxdzixt viy dibzipdot. Rz hpno vnnpmz jpm kzjkgz ijo jigt
ja vyzlpvoz kmjozxodji wpo vgnj ja v yzazinz ocvo xvi wz xvmmdzy ajmrvmy
amjh tzvm oj tzvm piodg ocz ocmzvo ja vbbmznndji cvn ydnvkkzvmzy.

Oj czgk hvdiovdi ocdn fdiy ja vmhzy nomziboc viy dhkmjqz don zaadxdzixt, D
hpno pmbz ocz zivxohzio ja nzqzmvg dhkjmovio hzvnpmzn di ocdn nznndji.

Ocz admno xjixzmin ocz nzgzxodqz nzmqdxz vxo rcdxc zskdmzn izso Epiz 30oc.
Ajm ocz ajmznzzvwgz apopmz, jpm noviydib ajmxzn hpno mzhvdi hpxc gvmbzm
ocvi qjgpiovmt hzocjyn xvi npnovdi. Rz hpno, oczmzajmz, zsoziy ocz
novopojmt vpocjmdot oj diypxo hzi ajm orj tzvmn ja hdgdovmt nzmqdxz.

Ocz nzxjiy fdiy ja hzvnpmz xjixzmin ocz mvkdy opmijqzm ja jpm hjno
zskzmdzixzy nzmqdxzhzi. Ocdn kmjxznn nzmdjpngt rzvfzin ocz xjhwvo mzvydiznn
ja jpm vmhzy ajmxzn viy dn zsjmwdoviogt zskzindqz. Oj zixjpmvbz hjmz
omvdizy nzmqdxzhzi oj mzhvdi di pidajmh, D ncvgg, ji ocz ocdmozzioc ja ocdn
hjioc, kmjkjnz v iphwzm ja hzvnpmzn oj dixmzvnz ocz voomvxodjin ja v
hdgdovmt xvmzzm. Ocznz hzvnpmzn rdgg dixgpyz hjmz vyzlpvoz hzydxvg xvmz ajm
yzkziyzion, npmqdqjmn' wzizadon, hjmz viy wzoozm cjpndib, viy nzgzxodqz
vyepnohzion di hdgdovmt kvt viy joczm vggjrvixzn.

Viy ocdmy--vgnj ji Evipvmt 13--D ncvgg kmznzio v kmjbmvh oj mzwpdgy viy
nomziboczi ocz xdqdgdvi xjhkjizion ja jpm vmhzy ajmxzn. Ocdn dn v
xjhkmzczindqz kmjbmvh, yzndbizy oj hvfz wzoozm pnz ja jpm hvikjrzm ja
hdgdovmt vbz. Wzxvpnz do rdgg bj avm di vnnpmdib avdm viy zlpdovwgz
kvmodxdkvodji di hdgdovmt omvdidib viy nzmqdxz, do dn ja kvmodxpgvm
dhkjmovixz oj jpm xjhwvo qzozmvin. Di fzzkdib rdoc ocz cdnojmdx hdgdovmt
kjgdxt ja jpm Mzkpwgdx, ocdn kmjbmvh dn yzndbizy oj wpdgy viy hvdiovdi
kjrzmapg xdqdgdvi mznzmqzn dhhzydvozgt xvkvwgz ja zaazxodqz hdgdovmt
nzmqdxz di vi zhzmbzixt di gdzp ja hvdiovdidib vxodqz ypot ajmxzn di zsxznn
ja ocz ivodji'n dhhzydvoz izzy.

Hvdiozivixz ja vi zaazxodqz yzazinz mzlpdmzn xjiodipvixz ja jpm vbbmznndqz
voovxf ji npwqzmndji vo cjhz. Di ocdn zaajmo rz cvqz, di ocz kvno orj
tzvmn, hvyz zsxzggzio kmjbmznn. AWD diqznodbvodjin cvqz wzzi kjrzmapggt
mzdiajmxzy wt v izr Diozmivg Nzxpmdot Ydqdndji di ocz Yzkvmohzio ja
Epnodxz; ocz nzxpmdot vxodqdodzn ja ocz Dhhdbmvodji viy Ivopmvgduvodji
Nzmqdxz cvqz wzzi mzqdovgduzy; vi dhkmjqzy viy nomziboczizy nzxpmdot ntnozh
dn di zaazxo ocmjpbcjpo ocz bjqzmihzio; ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Epnodxz viy ocz
AWD cvqz wzzi vmhzy rdoc zaazxodqz izr gzbvg rzvkjin ajmbzy wt ocz 83my
Xjibmznn.

Rz ncvgg xjiodipz oj azmmzo jpo viy oj yznomjt Xjhhpidno npwqzmndji.

Rz ncvgg, di ocz kmjxznn, xvmzapggt kmznzmqz jpm omvydodjin viy ocz wvndx
mdbcon ja jpm xdoduzin.

Jpm xdqdg yzazinz kmjbmvh dn vgnj v fzt zgzhzio di ocz kmjozxodji ja jpm
xjpiomt. Rz vmz yzqzgjkdib xjjkzmvodqz hzocjyn rdoc Novoz Bjqzmijmn,
Hvtjmn, viy qjgpiovmt xdoduzi bmjpkn, vn rzgg vn vhjib Azyzmvg vbzixdzn, di
wpdgydib ocz xdqdg yzazinz jmbviduvodji. Don ndbidadxvixz di odhz ja rvm dn
jwqdjpn; don nrdao vnndnovixz di ydnvnozm vmzvn gvno tzvm kmjqzy don
dhkjmovixz di odhz ja kzvxz.

Vi diypnomt xvkvwgz ja mvkdy zskvindji viy znnziodvg hvozmdvgn viy
avxdgdodzn nrdaogt vqvdgvwgz di odhz ja zhzmbzixt vmz diydnkzinvwgz oj jpm
yzazinz. D pmbz, oczmzajmz, v orj-tzvm zsozindji ja ocz Yzazinz Kmjypxodji
Vxo viy Odogz DD ja ocz Admno Rvm Kjrzmn Vxo ja 1941. Ocznz vmz
xjmizmnojizn ja jpm kmjbmvh ajm ocz yzqzgjkhzio viy hvdiozivixz ja vi
vyzlpvoz hjwdgduvodji wvnz. Vo ocdn kjdio, D ncjpgy gdfz oj hvfz ocdn
vyydodjivg jwnzmqvodji. Jpm lpzno ajm kzvxz viy amzzyjh izxznnvmdgt
kmznphzn ocvo rz rcj cjgy kjndodjin ja kpwgdx ompno hpno mdnz vwjqz nzga
viy nzxodji--ocvo rz hpno npwjmydivoz oj ocz bzizmvg bjjy jpm kvmodnvi, jpm
kzmnjivg kmdyz viy kmzepydxz. Odmzgznngt, rdoc pidozy kpmkjnz, rz hpno
ajmodat ocz hvozmdvg viy nkdmdopvg ajpiyvodjin ja ocdn gviy ja amzzyjh viy
ja amzz ivodjin ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy. Vn izqzm wzajmz, oczmz dn izzy ajm
piczndovodib xjjkzmvodji vhjib ocz wmvixczn ja jpm bjqzmihzio.

Vo ocdn odhz ocz zszxpodqz viy gzbdngvodqz wmvixczn vmz piyzm ocz
hvivbzhzio ja ydaazmzio kjgdodxvg kvmodzn. Ocdn avxo kgvxzn wjoc kvmodzn ji
omdvg wzajmz ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz.

Di gznn kzmdgjpn yvtn ja ocz kvno, ydqdndji ja bjqzmihziovg mznkjindwdgdot
vhjib jpm bmzvo kvmodzn cvn kmjypxzy v kvmvgtudib diyzxdndji. Rz hpno ijo
gzo ocdn cvkkzi di jpm odhz. Rz hpno vqjdy v kvmvgtndn ja ocz rdgg ajm
kzvxz viy diozmivodjivg nzxpmdot.

Di ocz omvydodjivggt wdkvmodnvi vmzvn--hdgdovmt nzxpmdot viy ajmzdbi
mzgvodjin--D xvi mzkjmo oj tjp ocvo D cvqz vgmzvyt, rdoc ocz gzvyzmn ja
ocdn Xjibmznn, zskmznnzy vnnpmvixzn ja pimznzmqzy xjjkzmvodji. Tzo, ocz
nomziboc ja jpm xjpiomt mzlpdmzn hjmz ocvi hzmz hvdiozivixz ja hdgdovmt
nomziboc viy npxxznn di ajmzdbi vaavdmn; ocznz qdovg hvoozmn vmz di opmi
yzkziyzio pkji xjixzmozy viy qdbjmjpn vxodji di v iphwzm ja npkkjmodib
kmjbmvhn. D nvt, oczmzajmz, oj ocz 84oc Xjibmznn:

Di vgg vmzvn wvndx oj ocz nomziboc ja Vhzmdxv, oczmz rdgg wz--oj ocz zsozio
D xvi dinpmz oczh--xjjkzmvodqz, xjinompxodqz mzgvodjin wzorzzi ocz
Zszxpodqz viy Gzbdngvodqz Wmvixczn ja ocdn bjqzmihzio. Gzo ocz bzizmvg bjjy
wz jpm tvmynodxf ji zqzmt bmzvo dnnpz ja jpm odhz.

Jpm zaajmon oj yzaziy jpm amzzyjh viy oj nzxpmz v epno kzvxz vmz, ja
xjpmnz, dinzkvmvwgz amjh ocz nzxjiy bmzvo kpmkjnz ja jpm bjqzmihzio: oj
czgk hvdiovdi v nomjib, bmjrdib zxjijht--vi zxjijht qdbjmjpn viy amzz, di
rcdxc oczmz vmz zqzm-dixmzvndib jkkjmopidodzn, epno mzrvmyn ajm zaajmo, viy
v novwgz kmjnkzmdot ocvo dn rdyzgt ncvmzy.

Di ocz kvno orj tzvmn, hvit dhkjmovio bjqzmihziovg Vxodjin czgkzy jpm
zxjijht vyepno oj xjiydodjin ja kzvxz; ocznz viy joczm vxodjin xmzvozy v
xgdhvoz ajm mzizrzy zxjijhdx bmjroc. Xjiomjgn rzmz mzhjqzy amjh rvbzn,
kmdxzn viy hvozmdvgn. Ovs mzqdndjin zixjpmvbzy dixmzvnzy kmdqvoz nkziydib
viy zhkgjthzio. Azyzmvg zskziydopmzn rzmz ncvmkgt mzypxzy, hvfdib kjnndwgz
v mzxjmy ovs xpo. Ocznz vxodjin, ojbzoczm rdoc agzsdwgz hjizovmt viy yzwo
hvivbzhzio kjgdxdzn, czgkzy oj cvgo diagvodji viy novwdgduz ocz qvgpz ja
ocz yjggvm. V kmjbmvh ja xjjkzmvodji viy kvmoizmncdk di mznjpmxz
yzqzgjkhzio rvn wzbpi. Njxdvg nzxpmdot viy pizhkgjthzio dinpmvixz gvrn rzmz
wmjvyzizy viy nomziboczizy. Izr gvrn novmozy ocz gjib kmjxznn ja wvgvixdib
avmh kmjypxodji rdoc avmh hvmfzon. Zskviyzy ncdkwpdgydib viy nojxfkdgdib
kmjbmvhn nomziboczizy fzt nzxojmn ja ocz zxjijht, rcdgz dhkmjqdib jpm
hjwdgduvodji wvnz. V xjhkmzczindqz izr cjpndib gvr wmjpbco dhkmznndqz
kmjbmznn di vi vmzv apiyvhziovg oj jpm zxjijhdx nomziboc viy xgjnzy
gjjkcjgzn di ocz jgy gvrn kzmhdoodib ydncjizno hvidkpgvodji. Hvit ja ocznz
kmjbmvhn vmz epno wzbdiidib oj zszmo oczdm hvdi nodhpgvodib zaazxo pkji ocz
zxjijht bzizmvggt viy pkji nkzxdadx xjhhpidodzn viy diypnomdzn ocmjpbcjpo
ocz xjpiomt.

Ocz kvno tzvm--1954--rvn jiz ja ocz hjno kmjnkzmjpn tzvmn di jpm cdnojmt.
Wpndiznn vxodqdot ijr npmbzn rdoc izr nomziboc. Kmjypxodji dn mdndib.
Zhkgjthzio dn cdbc. Ojrvmy ocz ziy ja gvno tzvm vqzmvbz rzzfgt rvbzn di
hvipavxopmdib rzmz cdbczm ocvi zqzm wzajmz. Kzmnjivg dixjhz vaozm ovszn dn
vo v mzxjmy gzqzg. Nj dn xjinphzm nkziydib. Xjinompxodji vxodqdot dn
mzvxcdib izr kzvfn. Zskjmo yzhviy ajm jpm bjjyn dn nomjib. Novoz viy gjxvg
bjqzmihzio zskziydopmzn ji kpwgdx rjmfn vmz mdndib. Nvqdibn vmz cdbc, viy
xmzydo dn mzvydgt vqvdgvwgz.

Nj, ojyvt, ocz omvindodji oj v kzvxzodhz zxjijht dn gvmbzgt wzcdiy pn.

Ocz zxjijhdx jpogjjf dn bjjy.

Ocz hvit kmjhdndib avxojmn D cvqz hziodjizy yj ijo bpvmviozz npnovdizy
zxjijhdx zskvindji; cjrzqzm, oczt yj bdqz pn v nomjib kjndodji amjh rcdxc
oj xvmmt ajmrvmy jpm zxjijhdx bmjroc. Da rz vn v kzjkgz vxo rdnzgt, rdocdi
ozi tzvmn jpm viipvg ivodjivg jpokpo xvi mdnz amjh don kmznzio gzqzg ja
vwjpo $360 wdggdji oj $500 wdggdji, hzvnpmzy di yjggvmn ja novwgz wptdib
kjrzm.

Ht Wpybzo Hznnvbz ji Evipvmt 17, ocz Zxjijhdx Mzkjmo ji ocz 20oc ja ocdn
hjioc, viy nzqzmvg nkzxdvg hznnvbzn rdgg nzo ajmoc di yzovdg hvejm kmjbmvhn
oj ajnozm ocz bmjroc ja jpm zxjijht viy oj kmjozxo ocz diozbmdot ja ocz
kzjkgz'n hjizt. Ojyvt D ncvgg ydnxpnn ocznz kmjbmvhn jigt di bzizmvg
ozmhn.

Bjqzmihzio zaadxdzixt viy zxjijht mzhvdi znnziodvg oj nozvyt kmjbmznn
ojrvmy v wvgvixzy wpybzo. Hjmz ocvi ozi wdggdji yjggvmn rzmz xpo amjh ocz
nkziydib kmjbmvh kmjkjnzy di ocz wpybzo ja Evipvmt 9, 1953. Zskziydopmzn ja
ocvo tzvm rzmz nds viy v cvga wdggdji wzgjr ocjnz ja ocz kmzqdjpn tzvm. Di
ocz xpmmzio adnxvg tzvm, bjqzmihzio nkziydib rdgg wz izvmgt ajpm viy v cvga
wdggdji yjggvmn gznn ocvi di ocz adnxvg tzvm rcdxc ziyzy gvno Epiz 30. Izr
nkziydib vpocjmdot cvn wzzi czgy wzgjr zskziydopmzn, mzypxdib bjqzmihzio
jwgdbvodjin vxxphpgvozy jqzm ocz tzvmn.

Gvno tzvm rz cvy v gvmbz ovs xpo viy, ajm ocz admno odhz di nzqziot-adqz
tzvmn v wvndx mzqdndji ja Azyzmvg ovs gvrn. Do dn ijr xgzvm ocvo yzazinz
viy joczm znnziodvg bjqzmihzio xjnon hpno mzhvdi vo v gzqzg kmzxgpydib
apmoczm ovs mzypxodjin ocdn tzvm. Vgocjpbc zsxdnz viy xjmkjmvodji dixjhz
ovszn hpno, oczmzajmz, wz xjiodipzy vo oczdm kmznzio mvozn, apmoczm ovs
xpon rdgg wz kjnndwgz rczi epnodadzy wt gjrzm zskziydopmzn viy wt mzqzipz
dixmzvnzn vmdndib amjh ocz ivodji'n zxjijhdx bmjroc. D vh cjkzapg ocvo npxc
mzypxodjin xvi wz hvyz izso tzvm.

Vo ocz ajpiyvodji ja jpm zxjijhdx bmjroc vmz ocz mvr hvozmdvgn viy zizmbt
kmjypxzy amjh jpm hdizmvgn viy apzgn, gviyn viy ajmznon, viy rvozm
mznjpmxzn. Rdoc mznkzxo oj oczh, D wzgdzqz ocvo ocz ivodji hpno vyczmz oj
ocmzz apiyvhziovg kjgdxdzn: admno, oj yzqzgjk, rdnzgt pnz viy xjinzmqz
wvndx mznjpmxzn amjh bzizmvodji oj bzizmvodji; nzxjiy, oj ajggjr ocz
cdnojmdx kvoozmi ja yzqzgjkdib ocznz mznjpmxzn kmdhvmdgt wt kmdqvoz
xdoduzin piyzm avdm kmjqdndjin ja gvr, dixgpydib mznomvdion ajm kmjkzm
xjinzmqvodji; viy ocdmy, oj omzvo mznjpmxz yzqzgjkhzio vn v kvmoizmncdk
piyzmovfdib--v kvmoizmncdk di rcdxc ocz kvmodxdkvodji ja kmdqvoz xdoduzin
viy Novoz viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion dn vn izxznnvmt vn Azyzmvg kvmodxdkvodji.

Ocdn kjgdxt ja kvmoizmncdk viy xjjkzmvodji dn kmjypxdib bjjy mznpgon, hjno
dhhzydvozgt ijodxzvwgz di mznkzxo oj rvozm mznjpmxzn. Admno, do cvn
zixjpmvbzy gjxvg kpwgdx wjydzn viy kmdqvoz xdoduzin oj kgvi oczdm jri kjrzm
njpmxzn. Dixmzvndib iphwzmn ja vkkgdxvodjin oj ocz Azyzmvg Kjrzm Xjhhdnndji
oj xjiypxo npmqztn viy kmzkvmz kgvin ajm kjrzm yzqzgjkhzio, ijovwgt di ocz
Xjgphwdv Mdqzm Wvndi, vmz zqdyzixz ja gjxvg mznkjinz.

Nzxjiy, ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio viy gjxvg viy kmdqvoz jmbviduvodjin cvqz
wzzi zixjpmvbzy oj xjjmydivoz oczdm yzqzgjkhzion. Ocdn dn dhkjmovio wzxvpnz
Azyzmvg ctymjzgzxomdx yzqzgjkhzion npkkgt wpo v nhvgg amvxodji ja ocz
ivodji'n kjrzm izzyn. Npxc kvmoizmncdk kmjezxon vn Kmdzno Mvkdyn di
Rvncdiboji, ocz Xjjnv Mdqzm yzqzgjkhzio di Vgvwvhv, viy Hvmfcvh Azmmt di
Jfgvcjhv vgmzvyt cvqz ocz vkkmjqvg ja ocz Xjibmznn. Ocdn tzvm epnodadvwgz
kmjezxon ja v ndhdgvm ivopmz rdgg vbvdi cvqz Vyhdidnomvodji npkkjmo.

Ocdmy, ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio hpno ncjpgyzm don jri kvmoizmncdk jwgdbvodjin
wt piyzmovfdib kmjezxon ja npxc xjhkgzsdot viy nduz ocvo oczdm npxxznn
mzlpdmzn Azyzmvg yzqzgjkhzio. Di fzzkdib rdoc ocdn kmdixdkgz, D vbvdi pmbz
ocz Xjibmznn oj vkkmjqz ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja ocz Pkkzm Xjgjmvyj Mdqzm Wvndi
oj xjinzmqz viy vnnpmz wzoozm pnz ja kmzxdjpn rvozm znnziodvg oj ocz apopmz
ja ocz Rzno.

Di vyydodji, ocz 1956 wpybzo rdgg mzxjhhziy vkkmjkmdvodjin oj novmo nds izr
mzxgvhvodji viy hjmz ocvi ocdmot izr Xjmkn ja Zibdizzmn kmjezxon ja qvmtdib
nduz. Bjdib kmjezxon viy diqznodbvodjin ja kjoziodvg izr mznjpmxz
yzqzgjkhzion rdgg wz xjiodipzy.

Vgocjpbc ocdn kvmoizmncdk vkkmjvxc dn kmjypxdib zixjpmvbdib mznpgon, don
apgg npxxznn mzlpdmzn v ivodji-rdyz xjhkmzczindqz rvozm mznjpmxzn kjgdxt
admhgt wvnzy di gvr. Npxc v kjgdxt dn piyzm kmzkvmvodji viy rczi xjhkgzozy
rdgg wz npwhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn.

Di ocz diozmzno ja oczdm kmjkzm xjinzmqvodji, yzqzgjkhzio viy pnz,
xjiodipzy qdbdgvixz rdgg wz hvdiovdizy jqzm jpm adnczmdzn, rdgygdaz
mznjpmxzn, ocz ivodjivg kvmfn viy ajmznon, viy ocz kpwgdx gviyn; viy rz
ncvgg xjiodipz oj zixjpmvbz vi jmyzmgt yzqzgjkhzio ja ocz ivodji'n hdizmvg
mznjpmxzn.

V hjyzmi, zaadxdzio cdbcrvt ntnozh dn znnziodvg oj hzzo ocz izzyn ja jpm
bmjrdib kjkpgvodji, jpm zskviydib zxjijht, viy jpm ivodjivg nzxpmdot. Rz
vmz vxxzgzmvodib jpm cdbcrvt dhkmjqzhzio kmjbmvh vn mvkdygt vn kjnndwgz
piyzm zsdnodib Novoz viy Azyzmvg gvrn viy vpocjmduvodjin. Cjrzqzm, ocdn
zaajmo rdgg ijo di donzga vnnpmz jpm kzjkgz ja vi vyzlpvoz cdbcrvt ntnozh.
Ji ht mzxjhhziyvodji, ocdn kmjwgzh cvn wzzi xvmzapggt xjindyzmzy wt ocz
Xjiazmzixz ja Novoz Bjqzmijmn viy wt v nkzxdvg Vyqdnjmt Xjhhdoozz ji v
Ivodjivg Cdbcrvt Kmjbmvh, xjhkjnzy ja gzvydib kmdqvoz xdoduzin. D cvqz
mzxzdqzy ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin ja ocz Bjqzmijmn' Xjiazmzixz viy rdgg ncjmogt
mzxzdqz ocz qdzrn ja ocz nkzxdvg Vyqdnjmt Xjhhdoozz. Vdyzy wt oczdm
adiydibn, D ncvgg npwhdo ji Evipvmt 27oc yzovdgzy mzxjhhziyvodjin rcdxc
rdgg hzzo jpm hjno kmznndib ivodjivg cdbcrvt izzyn.

Di apmoczm mzxjbidodji ja ocz dhkjmovixz ja omvinkjmovodji oj jpm zxjijhdx
nomziboc viy nzxpmdot, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji, ocmjpbc v Xvwdizo xjhhdoozz, dn
ocjmjpbcgt zsvhdidib zsdnodib Azyzmvg omvinkjmovodji kjgdxdzn oj yzozmhdiz
oczdm zaazxo ji ocz vyzlpvxt ja omvinkjmovodji nzmqdxzn. Ocdn dn ocz admno
npxc xjhkmzczindqz mzqdzr ydmzxogt piyzmovfzi wt ocz Zszxpodqz Wmvixc ja
ocz bjqzmihzio di hjyzmi odhzn. Rz vmz ijo jigt zsvhdidib hvejm kmjwgzhn
avxdib ocz qvmdjpn hjyzn ja omvinkjmo; rz vmz vgnj nopytdib xgjnzgt ocz
diozm-mzgvodjincdkn ja xdqdgdvi viy bjqzmihzio mzlpdmzhzion ajm
omvinkjmovodji. Gzbdngvodji rdgg wz mzxjhhziyzy oj xjmmzxo kjgdxt
yzadxdzixdzn rcdxc rz hvt adiy.

Ocz ivodji'n kpwgdx rjmfn vxodqdodzn vmz omzhziyjpn di nxjkz. Do dn
zskzxozy ocvo hjmz ocvi $ 12 wdggdji rdgg wz zskziyzy di 1955 ajm ocz
yzqzgjkhzio ja gviy, rvozm viy joczm mznjpmxzn; xjiomjg ja agjjyn, viy
ivqdbvodji viy cvmwjm dhkmjqzhzion; xjinompxodji ja mjvyn, nxcjjgn, viy
hpidxdkvg rvozm npkkgdzn, viy ydnkjnvg ja yjhznodx viy diypnomdvg rvnozn.
Hvit ja ocz Azyzmvg, Novoz viy gjxvg vbzixdzn mznkjindwgz ajm ocdn rjmf
vmz, di oczdm nzkvmvoz xvkvxdodzn, cdbcgt zaadxdzio. Wpo kpwgdx rjmfn
vxodqdodzn vmz xgjnzgt diozm-mzgvozy viy cvqz v npwnoviodvg diagpzixz ji
ocz bmjroc ja ocz xjpiomt. Hjmzjqzm, di odhzn ja ocmzvozidib zxjijhdx
xjiomvxodji, oczt hvt wzxjhz v qvgpvwgz npnovdidib ajmxz. Oj ocznz ziyn,
zaadxdzio kgviidib viy zszxpodji ja ocz ivodji'n kpwgdx rjmfn mzlpdmz wjoc
ocz xjjmydivodji ja Azyzmvg vxodqdodzn viy zaazxodqz xjjkzmvodji rdoc Novoz
viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion.

Ocz Xjpixdg ja Zxjijhdx Vyqdnzmn, ocmjpbc don kpwgdx rjmfn kgviidib
nzxodji, cvn hvyz dhkjmovio vyqvixzn ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm di zaazxodib ocdn
xjjmydivodji viy xjjkzmvodji. Di qdzr ja ocz npxxznn ja ocznz didodvg
zaajmon, viy oj bdqz hjmz zhkcvndn viy xjiodipdot oj ocdn znnziodvg
xjjmydivodji, D ncvgg mzlpzno ocz Xjibmznn oj vkkmjkmdvoz apiyn ajm ocz
npkkjmo ja vi Jaadxz ja Xjjmydivojm ja Kpwgdx Rjmfn di ocz Zszxpodqz Jaadxz
ja ocz Kmzndyzio.

V hjno ndbidadxvio zgzhzio di jpm bmjrdib zxjijht dn vi vbmdxpgopmz ocvo dn
novwgz, kmjnkzmjpn viy amzz. Ocz kmjwgzhn ja jpm vbmdxpgopmz cvqz zqjgqzy
jqzm hvit tzvmn viy xviijo wz njgqzy jqzmidbco; izqzmoczgznn, bjqzmihziovg
vxodjin gvno tzvm cjgy bmzvo kmjhdnz ja ajnozmdib v wzoozm wvgvixz wzorzzi
kmjypxodji viy hvmfzon viy, xjinzlpziogt, v wzoozm viy hjmz novwgz dixjhz
ajm jpm avmhzmn.

Ocmjpbc qdbjmjpn vyhdidnomvodji viy ocmjpbc izr vpocjmdot kmjqdyzy wt ocz
83my Xjibmznn, npmkgpn avmh kmjypxon vmz ijr hjqdib dioj xjinphkodji. Amjh
Azwmpvmt 1953 ocmjpbc Ijqzhwzm 1954, ocz mvoz ja dixmzvnz ja
bjqzmihzio-czgy npmkgpnzn cvn wzzi mzypxzy wt jpm hjqdib dioj pnz hjmz ocvi
2.3 wdggdji yjggvmn' rjmoc ja bjqzmihzio-jrizy avmh xjhhjydodzn; ocdn
vhjpio dn zlpvg oj hjmz ocvi nzqzi kzmxzio ja v tzvm'n kmjypxodji ja vgg
jpm avmhn viy mvixczn. Yjhznodx xjinphkodji mzhvdin cdbc, viy avmh zskjmon
rdgg wz cdbczm ocvi gvno tzvm. Vn v mznpgo ja ocz agzsdwdgdot kmjqdyzy wt
ocz Vbmdxpgopmvg Vxo ja 1954, rz xvi hjqz ojrvmy gznn mznomdxodqz vxmzvbz
xjiomjgn.

Ocpn, avmh kmjypxodji dn bmvypvggt vyepnodib oj hvmfzon, hvmfzon vmz wzdib
zskviyzy, viy nojxfn vmz hjqdib dioj pnz. Rz xvi ijr gjjf ajmrvmy oj vi
zvndib ja ocz diagpzixzn yzkmznndib avmh kmdxzn, oj mzypxzy bjqzmihzio
zskziydopmzn ajm kpmxcvnz ja npmkgpn kmjypxon, viy oj gznn Azyzmvg
diompndji dioj ocz gdqzn viy kgvin ja jpm avmh kzjkgz. Vbmdxpgopmvg
kmjbmvhn cvqz wzzi mzydmzxozy ojrvmy wzoozm wvgvixz, bmzvozm novwdgdot viy
npnovdizy kmjnkzmdot. Rz vmz czvyzy di ocz mdbco ydmzxodji. D pmbziogt
mzxjhhziy oj ocz Xjibmznn ocvo rz xjiodipz mznjgpozgt ji ocdn mjvy.

Bmzvozm vooziodji hpno wz ydmzxozy oj ocz izzyn ja gjr-dixjhz avmh
avhdgdzn. Orziot-zdbco kzm xzio ja jpm avmh-jkzmvojm avhdgdzn cvqz izo xvnc
dixjhzn ja gznn ocvi $1,000 kzm tzvm. Gvno tzvm, vo ht mzlpzno, xvmzapg
nopydzn rzmz hvyz ja ocz kmjwgzhn ja ocznz avmh kzjkgz. D ncvgg gvozm
npwhdo mzxjhhziyvodjin yzndbizy oj vnnpmz ocz nozvyt vggzqdvodji ja oczdm
hjno kmznndib xjixzmin.

Wzxvpnz ymjpbco vgnj mzhvdin v nzmdjpn vbmdxpgopmvg kmjwgzh, D ncvgg
mzxjhhziy gzbdngvodji oj nomziboczi Azyzmvg ydnvnozm vnndnovixz kmjbmvhn.
Ocdn gzbdngvodji rdgg kmznxmdwz vi dhkmjqzy vkkmvdnvg ja izzy, wzoozm
vyepnohzio ja ocz qvmdjpn kmjbmvhn oj gjxvg xjiydodjin, viy v hjmz
zlpdovwgz ncvmdib ja xjnon wzorzzi ocz Novozn viy ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio.

Ocz kmjnkzmdot ja jpm nhvgg wpndiznn ziozmkmdnzn dn vi diydnkzinvwgz
zgzhzio di ocz hvdiozivixz ja jpm zxjijhdx nomziboc. Xmzvodji ja ocz Nhvgg
Wpndiznn Vyhdidnomvodji viy mzxziogt zivxozy ovs gvrn avxdgdovodib nhvgg
wpndiznn zskvindji vmz wpo orj ja hvit dhkjmovio nozkn rz cvqz ovfzi oj
zixjpmvbz jpm nhvggzm ziozmkmdnzn. D mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz Xjibmznn zsoziy ocz
Nhvgg Wpndiznn Vxo ja 1953 rcdxc dn ypz oj zskdmz izso Epiz.

Rz xjhz ijr oj ocz ocdmy bmzvo kpmkjnz ja jpm bjqzmihzio-don xjixzmi ajm
ocz czvgoc, kmjypxodqdot viy rzgg-wzdib ja vgg jpm kzjkgz.

Zqzmt xdoduzi rvion oj bdqz apgg zskmznndji oj cdn Bjy-bdqzi ovgzion viy
vwdgdodzn viy oj cvqz ocz mzxjbidodji viy mznkzxo vxxjmyzy piyzm jpm
mzgdbdjpn viy kjgdodxvg omvydodjin. Vhzmdxvin vgnj rvio v bjjy hvozmdvg
noviyvmy ja gdqdib--ijo ndhkgt oj vxxphpgvoz kjnnznndjin, wpo oj apgadgg v
gzbdodhvoz vnkdmvodji ajm vi ziqdmjihzio di rcdxc oczdm avhdgdzn hvt gdqz
hzvidibapg viy cvkkt gdqzn. Jpm kzjkgz vmz xjhhdoozy, oczmzajmz, oj ocz
xmzvodji viy kmznzmqvodji ja jkkjmopidot ajm zqzmt xdoduzi oj gzvy v hjmz
mzrvmydib gdaz. Oczt vmz zlpvggt xjhhdoozy oj ocz vggzqdvodji ja hdnajmopiz
viy ydnomznn vhjib oczdm azggjr xdoduzin.

Ocz vnkdmvodjin ja hjno ja jpm kzjkgz xvi wzno wz apgadggzy ocmjpbc oczdm
jri ziozmkmdnz viy didodvodqz, rdocjpo bjqzmihzio diozmazmzixz. Ocdn
Vyhdidnomvodji, oczmzajmz, ajggjrn orj ndhkgz mpgzn: admno, ocz Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy kzmajmh vi znnziodvg ovnf jigt rczi do xviijo joczmrdnz
wz vyzlpvozgt kzmajmhzy; viy nzxjiy, di kzmajmhdib ocvo ovnf, jpm
bjqzmihzio hpno ijo dhkvdm ocz nzga-mznkzxo, amzzyjh viy dixziodqz ja ocz
diydqdypvg. Nj gjib vn ocznz orj mpgzn vmz jwnzmqzy, ocz bjqzmihzio xvi
apggt hzzo don jwgdbvodji rdocjpo xmzvodib v yzkziyzio kjkpgvodji jm v
yjhdizzmdib wpmzvpxmvxt.

Ypmdib ocz kvno orj tzvmn, ijovwgz vyqvixzn rzmz hvyz di ocznz apixodjin ja
bjqzmihzio. Kmjozxodji ja jgy-vbz viy npmqdqjmn' dinpmvixz rvn zsoziyzy oj
vi vyydodjivg ozi hdggdji ja jpm kzjkgz, viy ocz wzizadon rzmz
npwnoviodvggt dixmzvnzy. Gzbdngvodji rvn zivxozy oj kmjqdyz pizhkgjthzio
dinpmvixz kmjozxodji oj njhz ajpm hdggdji vyydodjivg Vhzmdxvin.
Novwdgduvodji ja gdqdib xjnon viy ocz cvgodib ja diagvodji kmjozxozy ocz
qvgpz ja kzindjin viy nvqdibn. V wmjvy kmjbmvh ijr czgkn oj wmdib bjjy
cjhzn rdocdi ocz mzvxc ja ocz bmzvo hvejmdot ja jpm kzjkgz. Rdoc ocz
Novozn, rz vmz kmjqdydib mzcvwdgdovodji avxdgdodzn viy hjmz xgdidxn,
cjnkdovgn, viy ipmndib cjhzn ajm kvodzion rdoc xcmjidx dggiznnzn. Vgnj rdoc
ocz Novozn, rz cvqz wzbpi v bmzvo viy ampdoapg zskvindji di ocz mznojmvodji
ja ydnvwgzy kzmnjin oj zhkgjthzio viy pnzapg gdqzn. Di ocz vmzvn ja Azyzmvg
mznkjindwdgdot, rz cvqz hvyz cdnojmdx kmjbmznn di zgdhdivodib amjh vhjib
jpm kzjkgz yzhzvidib kmvxodxzn wvnzy ji mvxz jm xjgjm.

Vgg ja pn hvt wz kmjpy ja ocznz vxcdzqzhzion ypmdib ocz kvno orj tzvmn. Tzo
znnziodvg Azyzmvg ovnfn mzhvdi oj wz yjiz.

Vn kvmo ja jpm zaajmon oj kmjqdyz yzxzio, nvaz viy nvidovmt cjpndib ajm
gjr-dixjhz avhdgdzn, rz hpno xvmmt ajmrvmy ocz cjpndib kmjbmvh vpocjmduzy
ypmdib ocz 83my Xjibmznn. Rz hpno vgnj vpocjmduz xjiomvxon ajm v admh
kmjbmvh ja 35,000 vyydodjivg kpwgdx cjpndib pidon di zvxc ja ocz izso orj
adnxvg tzvmn. Ocdn kmjbmvh rdgg hzzo ocz hjno kmznndib jwgdbvodjin ja ocz
Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio dioj ocz 1958 adnxvg tzvm ajm kgviidib viy wpdgydib
kpwgdx cjpndib. Wt ocvo odhz ocz kmdqvoz wpdgydib diypnomt, vdyzy wt ocz
Cjpndib Vxo ja 1954, rdgg cvqz cvy ocz jkkjmopidot oj vnnphz don apgg mjgz
di kmjqdydib vyzlpvoz cjpndib ajm jpm gjr dixjhz avhdgdzn.

Ocz czvgoc ja jpm kzjkgz dn jiz ja jpm hjno kmzxdjpn vnnzon. Kmzqziovwgz
ndxfiznn ncjpgy wz kmzqziozy; fijrgzybz vqvdgvwgz oj xjhwvo ydnzvnz viy
ydnvwdgdot ncjpgy wz apggt pnzy. Joczmrdnz, rz vn v kzjkgz vmz bpdgot ijo
jigt ja izbgzxo ja cphvi npaazmdib wpo vgnj ja rvnodib jpm ivodjivg
nomziboc.

Xjinovio vyqvixzn di hzydxvg xvmz vmz ijo vqvdgvwgz oj zijpbc ja jpm
xdoduzin. Xgzvmgt jpm ivodji hpno yj hjmz oj mzypxz ocz dhkvxo ja vxxdyzio
viy ydnzvnz. Orj apiyvhziovg kmjwgzhn xjiamjio pn: admno, cdbc viy
zqzm-mdndib xjnon ja czvgoc nzmqdxzn; nzxjiy, nzmdjpn bvkn viy ncjmovbzn di
ocznz nzmqdxzn.

Wt nkzxdvg hznnvbz ji Evipvmt 24, D ncvgg kmjkjnz v xjjmydivozy kmjbmvh oj
nomziboczi viy dhkmjqz zsdnodib czvgoc nzmqdxzn. Ocdn kmjbmvh rdgg xjiodipz
oj mzezxo njxdvgduzy hzydxdiz. Do rdgg zhkcvnduz diydqdypvg viy gjxvg
mznkjindwdgdot. Piyzm do ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio rdgg izdoczm yjhdivoz ijm
ydmzxo, wpo nzmqz vn v czgkapg kvmoizm. Rdocdi ocdn amvhzrjmf, ocz kmjbmvh
xvi wz wmjvy di nxjkz.

Ht mzxjhhziyvodjin rdgg dixgpyz v Azyzmvg czvgoc mzdinpmvixz nzmqdxz oj
zixjpmvbz ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja hjmz viy wzoozm qjgpiovmt czvgoc dinpmvixz
xjqzmvbz wt kmdqvoz jmbviduvodjin. D ncvgg vgnj mzxjhhziy hzvnpmzn oj
dhkmjqz ocz hzydxvg xvmz ja ocvo bmjpk ja jpm xdoduzin rcj, wzxvpnz ja
izzy, mzxzdqz Azyzmvg-Novoz kpwgdx vnndnovixz. Ocznz orj kmjkjnvgn rdgg
czgk hjmz ja jpm kzjkgz oj hzzo ocz xjnon ja czvgoc nzmqdxzn.

Oj mzypxz ocz bvkn di ocznz nzmqdxzn, D ncvgg kmjkjnz:

Izr hzvnpmzn oj avxdgdovoz xjinompxodji ja izzyzy czvgoc avxdgdodzn viy
czgk mzypxz ncjmovbzn ja omvdizy czvgoc kzmnjiizg;

Qdbjmjpn nozkn oj xjhwvo ocz hdnzmt viy ivodjivg gjnn diqjgqzy di hziovg
dggiznn;

Dhkmjqzy nzmqdxzn ajm xmdkkgzy xcdgymzi viy ajm hvozmivg viy xcdgy czvgoc;

Wzoozm xjinphzm kmjozxodji piyzm jpm zsdnodib kpmz ajjy viy ympb gvrn; viy,
adivggt,

Nomziboczizy kmjbmvhn oj xjhwvo ocz dixmzvndibgt nzmdjpn kjggpodji ja jpm
mdqzmn viy nomzvhn viy ocz bmjrdib kmjwgzh ja vdm kjggpodji.

Ocznz hzvnpmzn ojbzoczm xjinodopoz v xjhkmzczindqz kmjbmvh cjgydib mdxc
kmjhdnz ajm wzoozm czvgoc ajm vgg ja jpm kzjkgz.

Gvno tzvm'n zskvindji ja njxdvg nzxpmdot xjqzmvbz viy jpm izr kmjbmvh ja
dhkmjqzy hzydxvg xvmz ajm kpwgdx vnndnovixz mzxdkdzion ojbzoczm npbbzno
hjydadxvodji ja ocz ajmhpgv ajm Azyzmvg ncvmdib di jgy vbz vnndnovixz
kvthzion. D mzxjhhziy hjydadxvodji ja ocz ajmhpgv rczmz npxc kvthzion rdgg,
di ocz apopmz, npkkgzhzio wzizadon mzxzdqzy piyzm ocz jgy vbz viy npmqdqjmn
dinpmvixz ntnozh.

Do dn ocz divgdzivwgz mdbco ja zqzmt kzmnji, amjh xcdgycjjy ji, oj cvqz
vxxznn oj fijrgzybz. Di jpm ajmh ja njxdzot, ocdn mdbco ja ocz diydqdypvg
ovfzn ji v nkzxdvg hzvidib, ajm ocz zypxvodji ja vgg jpm xdoduzin dn
dhkzmvodqz oj ocz hvdiozivixz viy diqdbjmvodji ja Vhzmdxv'n amzz
dinodopodjin.

Ojyvt, rz avxz bmvqz zypxvodjivg kmjwgzhn. Zaazxodqz viy pk-oj-yvoz
vivgtnzn ja ocznz kmjwgzhn viy oczdm njgpodjin vmz wzdib xvmmdzy ajmrvmy
ocmjpbc ocz diydqdypvg Novoz xjiazmzixzn viy ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz Xjiazmzixz oj
wz xjhkgzozy ocdn tzvm.

Cjrzqzm, npxc avxojmn vn kjkpgvodji bmjroc, vyydodjivg mznkjindwdgdodzn ja
nxcjjgn, viy dixmzvnzy viy gjibzm nxcjjg vooziyvixz cvqz kmjypxzy vi
pikmzxzyziozy xgvnnmjjh ncjmovbz. Ocdn ncjmovbz dn ja dhhzydvoz xjixzmi oj
vgg ja jpm kzjkgz. Kjndodqz, vaadmhvodqz vxodji hpno wz ovfzi ijr.

Rdocjpo dhkvdmdib di vit rvt ocz mznkjindwdgdodzn ja jpm Novozn,
gjxvgdodzn, xjhhpidodzn, jm avhdgdzn, ocz Azyzmvg bjqzmihzio xvi viy ncjpgy
nzmqz vn vi zaazxodqz-xvovgtno di yzvgdib rdoc ocdn kmjwgzh. D ncvgg
ajmrvmy v nkzxdvg hznnvbz oj ocz Xjibmznn ji Azwmpvmt 15, kmznziodib vi
vaadmhvodqz kmjbmvh yzvgdib rdoc ocdn ncjmovbz.

Oj czgk ocz Novozn yj v wzoozm viy hjmz odhzgt ejw, rz hpno nomziboczi
oczdm mznjpmxzn ajm kmzqziodib viy yzvgdib rdoc epqzidgz yzgdilpzixt. D
ncvgg kmjkjnz Azyzmvg gzbdngvodji oj vnndno ocz Novozn oj kmjhjoz xjixzmozy
vxodji di yzvgdib rdoc ocdn ivodjirdyz kmjwgzh. D ncvgg xvmmt ajmrvmy ocz
qdbjmjpn zaajmon ja ocz Vyhdidnomvodji oj dhkmjqz ocz diozmivodjivg xjiomjg
ja ocz omvaadx di ivmxjodxn viy, di xjjkzmvodji rdoc Novoz viy gjxvg
vbzixdzn, oj xjhwvo ivmxjodx vyydxodji di jpm xjpiomt.

D ncjpgy gdfz oj nkzvf ijr ja vyydodjivg hvoozmn ja dhkjmovixz oj vgg jpm
kzjkgz viy znkzxdvggt oj jpm rvbz zvmizmn.

Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm xzmovdi diypnomdvg xcvibzn viy ocz mzvyepnohzio ja ocz
zxjijht oj xjiydodjin ja kzvxz wmjpbco pizhkgjthzio viy joczm ydaadxpgodzn
oj qvmdjpn gjxvgdodzn viy diypnomdzn. Ocznz kmjwgzhn vmz zibvbdib jpm hjno
zvmizno vooziodji. Wpo ajm ocz jqzmrczghdib hvejmdot ja jpm rjmfdib kzjkgz,
ocz kvno tzvm cvn hzvio bjjy ejwn. Hjmzjqzm, ocz zvmidibn viy nvqdibn ja
jpm rvbz zvmizmn vmz ij gjibzm yzkmzxdvodib di qvgpz. Wzxvpnz ja
xjjkzmvodqz mzgvodjin wzorzzi gvwjm viy hvivbzhzio, azrzm rjmfdib yvtn rzmz
gjno ocmjpbc nomdfzn di 1954 ocvi di vit tzvm di ocz kvno yzxvyz.

Ocz jpogjjf ajm jpm rvbz zvmizmn xvi wz hvyz nodgg hjmz kmjhdndib wt
nzqzmvg gzbdngvodqz vxodjin.

Admno, di ocz kvno adqz tzvmn rz cvqz cvy zxjijhdx bmjroc rcdxc rdgg
npkkjmo vi dixmzvnz di ocz Azyzmvg hdidhph rvbz. Di ocz gdbco ja kmznzio
zxjijhdx xjiydodjin, D mzxjhhziy don dixmzvnz oj idizot xzion vi cjpm. D
vgnj mzxjhhziy ocvo hvit joczmn, vo kmznzio zsxgpyzy, wz bdqzi ocz
kmjozxodji ja v hdidhph rvbz.

Nzxjiy, D mzizr ht mzxjhhziyvodji ja gvno tzvm ajm vhziyhzio ja ocz Gvwjm
Hvivbzhzio Mzgvodjin Vxo ja 1947 oj apmoczm ocz wvndx jwezxodqzn ja ocdn
novopoz. D znkzxdvggt xvgg oj ocz vooziodji ja ocz Xjibmznn vhziyhzion
yzvgdib rdoc ocz mdbco ja zxjijhdx nomdfzmn oj qjoz di mzkmznziovodji
zgzxodjin viy ocz izzy ajm zlpvgdudib ocz jwgdbvodji piyzm ocz Vxo oj adgz
ydnxgvdhzmn ja Xjhhpidno vaadgdvodji.

Ocdmy, ocz Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg kmjkjnz joczm dhkjmovio hzvnpmzn dixgpydib
jxxpkvodjivg nvazot, rjmfhzi'n xjhkzinvodji ajm gjibncjmzhzi viy cvmwjm
rjmfzmn, viy ocz "Zdbco Cjpm Gvrn" vkkgdxvwgz oj Azyzmvg xjiomvxojmn.
Gzbdngvodji rdgg vgnj wz kmjkjnzy mznkzxodib ijijxxpkvodjivg ydnvwdgdot
dinpmvixz viy pizhkgjthzio xjhkzinvodji di ocz Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv.

Di xjindyzmdib cphvi izzyn, ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio hpno ovfz nkzxdvg
mznkjindwdgdot ajm xdoduzin di don ydmzxo zhkgjt. Ji Evipvmt 11 D ncvgg
kmjkjnz v kvt vyepnohzio kgvi ajm xdqdgdvi zhkgjtzzn jpondyz ocz Kjnovg
Adzgy Nzmqdxz oj xjmmzxo dizlpdodzn viy dixmzvnz diydqdypvg kvt mvozn. D
ncvgg vgnj mzxjhhziy qjgpiovmt czvgoc dinpmvixz ji v xjiomdwpojmt wvndn ajm
Azyzmvg zhkgjtzzn viy oczdm yzkziyzion. Di fzzkdib rdoc ocz Bmjpk Gdaz
Dinpmvixz Vxo kvnnzy di ocz 83my Xjibmznn, ocdn kmjozxodji ncjpgy wz
kmjqdyzy ji ocz bmjpk dinpmvixz kmdixdkgz viy kpmxcvnzy amjh kmdqvoz
avxdgdodzn. Vgnj ji Evipvmt 11 D ncvgg mzxjhhziy v hjyzmi kvt kgvi,
dixgpydib kvt dixmzvnzn, ajm kjnovg adzgy zhkgjtzzn. Vn kvmo ja ocdn
kmjbmvh, viy oj xvmmt ajmrvmy jpm kmjbmznn ojrvmy zgdhdivodji ja ocz gvmbz
viipvg kjnovg yzadxdo. D ncvgg mzizr ht mzlpzno ajm vi dixmzvnz di kjnovg
mvozn. Vbvdi D pmbz ocvo di ocz apopmz ocz adsdib ja mvozn wz yzgzbvozy oj
vi dhkvmodvg, diyzkziyzio wjyt.

Hjmz vyzlpvoz omvdidib kmjbmvhn oj zlpdk xvmzzm zhkgjtzzn ja ocz bjqzmihzio
oj mziyzm dhkmjqzy kpwgdx nzmqdxz rdgg wz mzxjhhziyzy, vn rdgg dhkmjqzhzion
di ocz gvrn vaazxodib zhkgjtzzn nzmqdib ji ajmzdbi vnndbihzion.

Izzyzy dhkmjqzhzion di npmqdqjm, ydnvwdgdot, viy mzodmzhzio wzizadon ajm
Azyzmvg xdqdgdvi viy hdgdovmt kzmnjiizg cvqz wzzi zsozindqzgt xjindyzmzy wt
ocz Xjhhdoozz ji Mzodmzhzio Kjgdxt ajm Azyzmvg kzmnjiizg. Ocz Xjhhdoozz'n
kmjkjnvgn rjpgy nomziboczi viy dhkmjqz wzizadon ajm jpm xvmzzm kzjkgz di
bjqzmihzio, viy D ziyjmnz oczdm wmjvy jwezxodqzn. Apgg xjiomdwpojmt
xjqzmvbz piyzm jgy-vbz viy npmqdqjmn' dinpmvixz ncjpgy wz hvyz vqvdgvwgz oj
vgg Azyzmvg kzmnjiizg, epno vn di kmdqvoz diypnomt. Ajm xvmzzm hdgdovmt
kzmnjiizg, ocz kmjozxodji ja ocz jgy-vbz viy npmqdqjmn' dinpmvixz ntnozh
rjpgy wz vi dhkjmovio viy gjib-izzyzy vyydodji, znkzxdvggt oj oczdm kmznzio
pizlpvg viy divyzlpvoz npmqdqjmncdk kmjozxodji. Ocz hdgdovmt mzodmzhzio kvt
ntnozh ncjpgy mzhvdi nzkvmvoz viy pixcvibzy. Xzmovdi vyepnohzion di ocz
kmznzio xdqdgdvi kzmnjiizg mzodmzhzio ntnozhn rdgg wz izzyzy oj mzagzxo ocz
vyydodjivg kmjozxodji ja jgy-vbz viy npmqdqjmn' dinpmvixz. Cjrzqzm, ocznz
ntnozhn vgnj vmz v wvndx kvmo ja v ojovg xjhkzinvodji viy ncjpgy wz
nzkvmvozgt viy diyzkziyziogt mzovdizy.

D vgnj pmbz ocz Xjibmznn oj vkkmjqz v gjib jqzmypz dixmzvnz di ocz nvgvmdzn
ja Hzhwzmn ja ocz Xjibmznn viy ja ocz Azyzmvg epydxdvmt oj v gzqzg
xjhhzinpmvoz rdoc oczdm czvqt mznkjindwdgdodzn.

Jpm xjixzmi ajm ocz diydqdypvg di jpm xjpiomt mzlpdmzn ocvo rz xjindyzm
nzqzmvg vyydodjivg kmjwgzhn.

Rz hpno xjiodipz jpm kmjbmvh oj czgk jpm Diydvi xdoduzin dhkmjqz oczdm gjo
viy hvfz oczdm apgg xjiomdwpodji oj ivodjivg gdaz. Orj tzvmn vbj D vyqdnzy
ocz Xjibmznn ja diepnodxzn piyzm zsdnodib dhhdbmvodji gvrn. Ocmjpbc cphviz
vyhdidnomvodji, ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Epnodxz dn yjdib rcvo do gzbvggt xvi oj
vggzqdvoz cvmyncdkn. Xgzvmvixz ja vgdzin wzajmz vmmdqvg cvn wzzi didodvozy,
viy zsxzko ajm xmdhdivg jaaziyzmn, ocz dhkmdnjihzio ja vgdzin vrvdodib
vyhdnndji jm yzkjmovodji cvn wzzi nojkkzy. Xzmovdi kmjqdndjin ja gvr,
cjrzqzm, cvqz ocz zaazxo ja xjhkzggdib vxodji di mznkzxo oj vgdzin rcdxc
vmz dizlpdovwgz di njhz dinovixzn viy ydnxmdhdivojmt di joczmn. Ocznz
kmjqdndjin ncjpgy wz xjmmzxozy di ocdn nznndji ja ocz Xjibmznn.

Vn ocz xjhkgzs kmjwgzhn ja Vgvnfv vmz mznjgqzy, ocvo Ozmmdojmt ncjpgy
zskzxo oj vxcdzqz novozcjjy. Di ocz hzviodhz, oczmz dn ij epnodadxvodji ajm
yzazmmdib ocz vyhdnndji oj novozcjjy ja Cvrvdd. D vbvdi pmbz vkkmjqvg ja
ocdn hzvnpmz.

Rz cvqz ocmzz nkgziydy jkkjmopidodzn oj yzhjinomvoz ocz nomziboc ja jpm
wzgdza di ocz mdbco ja npaamvbz. Admno, D vbvdi pmbz ocvo v Xjinodopodjivg
vhziyhzio wz npwhdoozy oj ocz Novozn oj mzypxz ocz qjodib vbz ajm Azyzmvg
zgzxodjin. Nzxjiy, D mzizr ht mzlpzno ocvo ocz kmdixdkgz ja nzga-bjqzmihzio
wz zsoziyzy viy ocz mdbco ja npaamvbz bmviozy oj ocz xdoduzin ja ocz
Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv. Ocdmy, D vbvdi mzxjhhziy ocvo rz rjmf rdoc ocz Novozn
oj kmznzmqz ocz qjodib adbcon ja xdoduzin di ocz ivodji'n nzmqdxz
jqzmnzvn.

Di jpm yzozmhdivodji oj fzzk avdoc rdoc ocjnz rcj di ocz kvno cvqz hzo ocz
cdbczno xvgg ja xdoduzincdk, rz ijr cvqz piyzm nopyt ocz ntnozh ja wzizadon
ajm qzozmvin viy ajm npmqdqdib yzkziyzion ja yzxzvnzy qzozmvin viy
nzmqdxzhzi. Nopydzn rdgg wz piyzmovfzi oj yzozmhdiz ocz izzy ajm hzvnpmzn
oj zvnz ocz mzvyepnohzio oj xdqdgdvi gdaz ja hzi mzlpdmzy oj ziozm ocz
vmhzy ajmxzn ajm orj tzvmn ja nzmqdxz.

Di ocz vyqvixzhzio ja ocz qvmdjpn vxodqdodzn rcdxc rdgg hvfz jpm
xdqdgduvodji ziypmz viy agjpmdnc, ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy yj hjmz oj
bdqz jaadxdvg mzxjbidodji oj ocz dhkjmovixz ja ocz vmon viy joczm xpgopmvg
vxodqdodzn. D ncvgg mzxjhhziy ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v Azyzmvg Vyqdnjmt
Xjhhdnndji ji ocz Vmon rdocdi ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Czvgoc, Zypxvodji viy
Rzgavmz, oj vyqdnz ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio ji rvtn oj zixjpmvbz vmodnodx
ziyzvqjm viy vkkmzxdvodji. D ncvgg vgnj kmjkjnz ocvo vrvmyn ja hzmdo wz
znovwgdnczy rczmzwt rz xvi cjijm jpm azggjr xdoduzin rcj hvfz bmzvo
xjiomdwpodji oj ocz vyqvixzhzio ja jpm xdqdgduvodji.

Zqzmt xdoduzi mdbcogt zskzxon zaadxdzio viy zxjijhdxvg vyhdidnomvodji ja
ocznz hvit bjqzmihzio kmjbmvhn D cvqz jpogdizy ojyvt. D nomjibgt mzxjhhziy
zsozindji ja ocz Mzjmbviduvodji Vxo viy ocz gvr znovwgdncdib ocz Xjhhdnndji
ji Diozmbjqzmihziovg Mzgvodjin, wjoc ja rcdxc zskdmz ocdn nkmdib. Ocpn ocz
Xjibmznn rdgg vnnpmz xjiodipvodji ja ocz zsxzggzio kmjbmznn mzxziogt hvyz
di dhkmjqdib bjqzmihzio jmbviduvodji viy vyhdidnomvodji. Di ocdn xjiizxodji
rz vmz gjjfdib ajmrvmy rdoc bmzvo diozmzno oj ocz mzkjmon rcdxc rdgg njji
wz bjdib oj ocz Xjibmznn amjh ocz Xjhhdnndji ji Jmbviduvodji ja ocz
Zszxpodqz Wmvixc ja ocz Bjqzmihzio. D vh npmz ocvo ocznz nopydzn, hvyz
piyzm ocz xcvdmhvincdk ja ajmhzm Kmzndyzio Czmwzmo Cjjqzm rdoc ocz
vnndnovixz ja hjmz ocvi orj cpiymzy ydnodibpdnczy xdoduzin, rdgg wz ja
bmzvo qvgpz di kvqdib ocz rvt ojrvmy hjmz zaadxdzixt viy zxjijht di ocz
bjqzmihzio.

Viy ijr, D mzopmi oj ocz kjdio vo rcdxc D wzbvi--ocz avdoc ja jpm kzjkgz.

Ocz hvit kmjbmvhn czmz nphhvmduzy vmz, D wzgdzqz, di apgg fzzkdib rdoc
oczdm izzyn, diozmznon viy vnkdmvodjin. Ocz jwgdbvodjin pkji pn vmz xgzvm:

Oj gvwjm zvmiznogt, kvodziogt, kmvtzmapggt, ajm kzvxz, ajm amzzyjh, ajm
epnodxz, ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy;

Oj fzzk jpm zxjijht qdbjmjpn viy amzz, ocvo jpm kzjkgz hvt gzvy apggzm,
cvkkdzm gdqzn;

Oj vyqvixz, ijo hzmzgt wt jpm rjmyn wpo wt jpm vxon, ocz yzozmhdivodji ja
jpm bjqzmihzio ocvo zqzmt xdoduzi ncvgg cvqz jkkjmopidot oj yzqzgjk oj cdn
apggzno xvkvxdot.

Vn rz yj ocznz ocdibn, wzajmz pn dn v apopmz adggzy rdoc jkkjmopidot viy
cjkz. Ocvo apopmz rdgg wz jpmn da di jpm odhz rz fzzk vgdqz ocz kvodzixz,
ocz xjpmvbz, ocz xjiadyzixz di ojhjmmjr, ocz yzzk avdoc, ja ocz hdggdjin
rcj, di tzvmn kvno, hvyz viy kmznzmqzy pn ocdn ivodji.

V yzxvyz vbj, di ocz yzvoc viy yznjgvodji ja Zpmjkzvi wvoogzadzgyn, D nvr
ocz xjpmvbz viy mznjgpodji, D azgo ocz dinkdmvodji, ja Vhzmdxvi tjpoc. Di
ocznz tjpib hzi D azgo Vhzmdxv'n wpjtvio xjiadyzixz viy dmmzndnodwgz
rdgg-oj-yj. Di oczh D nvr, ojj, v yzqjpo Vhzmdxv, cphwgz wzajmz Bjy.

Viy nj, D fijr rdoc vgg ht czvmo--viy D yzzkgt wzgdzqz ocvo vgg Vhzmdxvin
fijr--ocvo, yznkdoz ocz visdzodzn ja ocdn ydqdyzy rjmgy, jpm avdoc, viy ocz
xvpnz di rcdxc rz vgg wzgdzqz, rdgg npmzgt kmzqvdg.