Wr wkh Frqjuhvv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv:

Rqfh djdlq lw lv pb Frqvwlwxwlrqdo gxwb wr dvvhvv wkh vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq.

Rq hdfk vxfk suhylrxv rffdvlrq gxulqj wkhvh sdvw hljkw bhduv L kdyh
rxwolqhg d iruzdug frxuvh ghvljqhg wr dfklhyh rxu pxwxdo remhfwlyh--d
ehwwhu Dphulfd lq d zruog ri shdfh. Wklv wlph pb ixqfwlrq lv gliihuhqw.

Wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh, lq iuhh hohfwlrq, kdyh vhohfwhg qhz ohdghuvkls zklfk
vrrq zloo eh hqwuxvwhg zlwk wkh pdqdjhphqw ri rxu jryhuqphqw. D qhz
Suhvlghqw vkruwob zloo odb ehiruh brx klv sursrvdov wr vkdsh wkh ixwxuh ri
rxu juhdw odqg. Wr klp, hyhub flwlchq, zkdwhyhu klv srolwlfdo eholhiv,
sudbhuixoob hawhqgv ehvw zlvkhv iru jrrg khdowk dqg iru zlvgrp dqg vxffhvv
lq frslqj zlwk wkh sureohpv wkdw frqiurqw rxu Qdwlrq.

Iru pb sduw, L vkrxog olnh, iluvw, wr hasuhvv wr brx ri wkh Frqjuhvv, pb
dssuhfldwlrq ri brxu ghyrwlrq wr wkh frpprq jrrg dqg brxu iulhqgvkls ryhu
wkhvh gliilfxow bhduv. L zloo fduub zlwk ph sohdvdqw phprulhv ri wklv
dvvrfldwlrq lq hqghdyruv surirxqgob vljqlilfdqw wr doo rxu shrsoh.

Zh kdyh ehhq wkurxjk d ohqjwkb shulrg lq zklfk wkh frqwuro ryhu wkh
hahfxwlyh dqg ohjlvodwlyh eudqfkhv ri jryhuqphqw kdv ehhq glylghg ehwzhhq
rxu wzr juhdw srolwlfdo sduwlhv. Gliihuhqfhv, ri frxuvh, zh kdyh kdg,
sduwlfxoduob lq grphvwlf diidluv. Exw lq d xqlwhg ghwhuplqdwlrq wr nhhs
wklv Qdwlrq vwurqj dqg iuhh dqg wr xwlolch rxu ydvw uhvrxufhv iru wkh
dgydqfhphqw ri doo pdqnlqg, zh kdyh fduulhg Dphulfd wr xqsuhfhghqwhg
khljkwv.

Iru wklv frrshudwlyh dfklhyhphqw L wkdqn wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh dqg wkrvh lq
wkh Frqjuhvv ri erwk sduwlhv zkr kdyh vxssruwhg surjudpv lq wkh lqwhuhvw ri
rxu frxqwub.

L vkrxog dovr olnh wr jlyh vshfldo wkdqnv iru wkh ghyrwhg vhuylfh ri pb
dvvrfldwhv lq wkh Hahfxwlyh Eudqfk dqg wkh kxqguhgv ri wkrxvdqgv ri fduhhu
hpsorbhhv zkr kdyh lpsohphqwhg rxu glyhuvh jryhuqphqw surjudpv.

Pb vhfrqg sxusrvh lv wr uhylhz eulhiob wkh uhfrug ri wkhvh sdvw hljkw bhduv
lq wkh krsh wkdw, rxw ri wkh vxp ri wkhvh hashulhqfhv, ohvvrqv zloo hphujh
wkdw duh xvhixo wr rxu Qdwlrq. Vxssruwlqj wklv uhylhz duh ghwdlohg uhsruwv
iurp wkh vhyhudo djhqflhv dqg ghsduwphqwv, doo ri zklfk duh qrz ru zloo
vkruwob eh dydlodeoh wr wkh Frqjuhvv.

Wkurxjkrxw wkh zruog wkh bhduv vlqfh 1953 kdyh ehhq d shulrg ri surirxqg
fkdqjh. Wkh kxpdq sureohpv lq wkh zruog jurz pruh dfxwh krxu eb krxu; bhw
qhz jdlqv lq vflhqfh dqg whfkqrorjb frqwlqxdoob hawhqg wkh surplvh ri d
ehwwhu olih. Shrsoh bhduq wr eh iuhh, wr jryhuq wkhpvhoyhv; bhw d wklug ri
wkh shrsoh ri wkh zruog kdyh qr iuhhgrp, gr qrw jryhuq wkhpvhoyhv. Wkh
zruog uhfrjqlchv wkh fdwdvwursklf qdwxuh ri qxfohdu zdu; bhw lw vhhv wkh
zrqgurxv srwhqwldo ri qxfohdu shdfh.

Gxulqj wkh shulrg, wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv irujhg dkhdg xqghu d frqvwuxfwlyh
iruhljq srolfb. Wkh frqwlqxlqj jrdo lv shdfh, olehuwb, dqg zhoo-ehlqj--iru
rwkhuv dv zhoo dv rxuvhoyhv. Wkh dvsludwlrqv ri doo shrsohv duh rqh--shdfh
zlwk mxvwlfh lq iuhhgrp. Shdfh fdq rqob eh dwwdlqhg froohfwlyhob dv shrsohv
hyhubzkhuh xqlwh lq wkhlu ghwhuplqdwlrq wkdw olehuwb dqg zhoo-ehlqj frph wr
doo pdqnlqg.

Bhw zkloh zh kdyh zrunhg wr dgydqfh qdwlrqdo dvsludwlrqv iru iuhhgrp, d
glylvlyh irufh kdv ehhq dw zrun wr glyhuw wkdw dvsludwlrq lqwr gdqjhurxv
fkdqqhov. Wkh Frppxqlvw pryhphqw wkurxjkrxw wkh zruog hasorlwv wkh qdwxudo
vwulylqj ri doo wr eh iuhh dqg dwwhpswv wr vxemxjdwh phq udwkhu wkdq iuhh
wkhp. Wkhvh dfwlylwlhv kdyh fdxvhg dqg duh frqwlqxlqj wr fdxvh judyh
wurxeohv lq wkh zruog.

Khuh dw krph wkhvh kdyh ehhq wlphv iru fduhixo dgmxvwphqw ri rxu hfrqrpb
iurp wkh duwlilfldo lpshwxv ri d krw zdu wr frqvwuxfwlyh jurzwk lq d
suhfdulrxv shdfh. Zkloh exloglqj d qhz hfrqrplf ylwdolwb zlwkrxw lqiodwlrq,
zh kdyh dovr lqfuhdvhg sxeolf hashqglwxuhv wr nhhs deuhdvw ri wkh qhhgv ri
d jurzlqj srsxodwlrq dqg lwv dwwhqgdqw qhz sureohpv, dv zhoo dv rxu dgghg
lqwhuqdwlrqdo uhvsrqvlelolwlhv. Zh kdyh zrunhg wrzdug wkhvh hqgv lq d
frqwhaw ri vkduhg uhvsrqvlelolwb--frqvflrxv ri wkh qhhg iru pdalpxp vfrsh
wr sulydwh hiiruw dqg iru Vwdwh dqg orfdo, dv zhoo dv Ihghudo, jryhuqphqwdo
dfwlrq.

Vxffhvv lq ghvljqlqj dqg hahfxwlqj qdwlrqdo sxusrvhv, grphvwlfdoob dqg
deurdg, fdq rqob frph iurp d vwhdgidvw uhvroxwlrq wkdw lqwhjulwb lq wkh
rshudwlrq ri jryhuqphqw dqg lq rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk hdfk rwkhu eh ixoob
pdlqwdlqhg. Rqob lq wklv zdb frxog rxu vslulwxdo jrdov eh ixoob dgydqfhg.

IRUHLJQ SROLFB

Rq Mdqxdub 20, 1953, zkhq L wrrn riilfh, wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zdv dw zdu.
Vlqfh wkh vljqlqj ri wkh Nruhdq Duplvwlfh lq 1953, Dphulfdqv kdyh olyhg lq
shdfh lq kljkob wurxeohg wlphv.

Gxulqj wkh 1956 Vxhc fulvlv, wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv jryhuqphqw vwurqjob
vxssruwhg Xqlwhg Qdwlrqv' dfwlrq--uhvxowlqj lq wkh hqglqj ri wkh
krvwlolwlhv lq Hjbsw.

Djdlq lq 1958, shdfh zdv suhvhuyhg lq wkh Plggoh Hdvw ghvslwh qhz glvfrug.
Rxu jryhuqphqw uhvsrqghg wr wkh uhtxhvw ri wkh iulhqgob Ohedqhvh Jryhuqphqw
iru plolwdub khos, dqg surpswob zlwkguhz Dphulfdq irufhv dv vrrq dv wkh
vlwxdwlrq zdv vwdelolchg.

Lq 1958 rxu vxssruw ri wkh Uhsxeolf ri Fklqd gxulqj wkh doo-rxw erpedugphqw
ri Txhprb uhvwudlqhg wkh Frppxqlvw Fklqhvh iurp dwwhpswlqj wr lqydgh wkh
rii-vkruh lvodqgv.

Dowkrxjk, xqkdsslob, Frppxqlvw shqhwudwlrq ri Fxed lv uhdo dqg srvhv d
vhulrxv wkuhdw, Frppxqlvw grplqdwhg uhjlphv kdyh ehhq ghsrvhg lq Jxdwhpdod
dqg Ludq. Wkh rffxsdwlrq ri Dxvwuld kdv hqghg dqg wkh Wulhvwh txhvwlrq kdv
ehhq vhwwohg.

Ghvslwh frqvwdqw wkuhdwv wr lwv lqwhjulwb, Zhvw Ehuolq kdv uhpdlqhg iuhh.

Lpsruwdqw dgydqfhv kdyh ehhq pdgh lq exloglqj pxwxdo vhfxulwb
duudqjhphqwv--zklfk olh dw wkh khduw ri rxu krshv iru ixwxuh shdfh dqg
vhfxulwb lq wkh zruog. Wkh Vrxwkhdvw Dvld Wuhdwb Rujdqlcdwlrq kdv ehhq
hvwdeolvkhg; wkh QDWR dooldqfh kdv ehhq plolwdulob vwuhqjwkhqhg; wkh
Rujdqlcdwlrq ri Dphulfdq Vwdwhv kdv ehhq ixuwkhu ghyhorshg dv dq lqvwuxphqw
ri lqwhu-Dphulfdq frrshudwlrq; wkh Dqcxv wuhdwb kdv vwuhqjwkhqhg wlhv zlwk
Dxvwudold dqg Qhz Chdodqg, dqg d pxwxdo vhfxulwb wuhdwb zlwk Mdsdq kdv ehhq
vljqhg. Lq dgglwlrq, wkh FHQWR sdfw kdv ehhq frqfoxghg, dqg zkloh zh duh
qrw riilfldoob d phpehu ri wklv dooldqfh zh kdyh sduwlflsdwhg forvhob lq
lwv gholehudwlrqv.

Wkh "Dwrpv iru Shdfh" sursrvdo wr wkh Xqlwhg Qdwlrqv ohg wr wkh fuhdwlrq ri
wkh Lqwhuqdwlrqdo Dwrplf Hqhujb Djhqfb. Rxu srolfb kdv ehhq wr sxvk iru
hqirufhdeoh surjudpv ri lqvshfwlrq djdlqvw vxusulvh dwwdfn, vxvshqvlrq ri
qxfohdu whvwlqj, dupv uhgxfwlrq, dqg shdfhixo xvh ri rxwhu vsdfh.

Wkh Xqlwhg Qdwlrqv kdv ehhq yljrurxvob vxssruwhg lq doo ri lwv dfwlrqv,
lqfoxglqj wkh frqghpqdwlrqv ri wkh zkrohvdoh pxughu ri wkh shrsoh ri Wlehw
eb wkh Fklqhvh Frppxqlvwv dqg wkh euxwdo Vrylhw uhsuhvvlrq ri wkh shrsoh ri
Kxqjdub, dv zhoo dv wkh pruh uhfhqw XQ dfwlrqv lq wkh Frqjr.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wrrn wkh lqlwldwlyh lq qhjrwldwlqj wkh vljqlilfdqw wuhdwb
wr jxdudqwhh wkh shdfhixo xvh ri ydvw Dqwdufwlfd.

Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv Lqirupdwlrq Djhqfb kdv ehhq wudqviruphg lqwr d juhdwob
lpsuryhg phglxp iru hasodlqlqj rxu srolflhv dqg dfwlrqv wr dxglhqfhv
ryhuvhdv, dqvzhulqj wkh olhv ri frppxqlvw sursdjdqgd, dqg surmhfwlqj d
fohduhu lpdjh ri Dphulfdq olih dqg fxowxuh.

Fxowxudo, whfkqrorjlfdo dqg hgxfdwlrqdo hafkdqjhv zlwk wkh Vrylhw Xqlrq
kdyh ehhq hqfrxudjhg, dqg d frpsuhkhqvlyh djuhhphqw zdv pdgh zklfk
dxwkrulchg, dprqj rwkhu wklqjv, wkh glvwulexwlrq ri rxu Uxvvldq odqjxdjh
pdjdclqh Dphulnd dqg wkh kljkob vxffhvvixo Dphulfdq Haklelwlrq lq Prvfrz.

Wklv frxqwub kdv frqwlqxhg wr zlwkkrog uhfrjqlwlrq ri Frppxqlvw Fklqd dqg
wr rssrvh yljrurxvob wkh dgplvvlrq ri wklv ehooljhuhqw dqg xquhshqwdqw
qdwlrq lqwr wkh Xqlwhg Qdwlrqv. Uhg Fklqd kdv bhw wr ghprqvwudwh wkdw lw
ghvhuyhv wr eh frqvlghuhg d "shdfh-orylqj" qdwlrq.

Zlwk frppxqlvw lpshuldolvp khog lq fkhfn, frqvwuxfwlyh dfwlrqv zhuh
xqghuwdnhq wr vwuhqjwkhq wkh hfrqrplhv ri iuhh zruog qdwlrqv. Wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv jryhuqphqw kdv jlyhq vwxugb vxssruw wr wkh hfrqrplf dqg whfkqlfdo
dvvlvwdqfh dfwlylwlhv ri wkh XQ. Wklv frxqwub vwlpxodwhg d grxeolqj ri wkh
fdslwdo ri wkh Zruog Edqn dqg d 50 shufhqw fdslwdo lqfuhdvh lq wkh
Lqwhuqdwlrqdo Prqhwdub Ixqg. Wkh Ghyhorsphqw Ordq Ixqg dqg wkh
Lqwhuqdwlrqdo Ghyhorsphqw Dvvrfldwlrq zhuh hvwdeolvkhg. Wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
dovr wrrn wkh ohdg lq fuhdwlqj wkh Lqwhu-Dphulfdq Ghyhorsphqw Edqn.

Ylfh Suhvlghqw Qlarq, Vhfuhwdulhv ri Vwdwh Gxoohv dqg Khuwhu dqg L
wudyhoohg hawhqvlyhob wkurxjk wkh zruog iru wkh sxusrvh ri vwuhqjwkhqlqj
wkh fdxvh ri shdfh, iuhhgrp, dqg lqwhuqdwlrqdo xqghuvwdqglqj. Vr uhzduglqj
zhuh wkhvh ylvlwv wkdw wkhlu yhub vxffhvv ehfdph d vljqlilfdqw idfwru lq
fdxvlqj wkh Vrylhw Xqlrq wr zuhfn wkh sodqqhg Vxpplw Frqihuhqfh ri 1960.

Wkhvh ylwdo surjudpv pxvw jr rq. Qhz wdfwlfv zloo kdyh wr eh ghyhorshg, ri
frxuvh, wr phhw qhz vlwxdwlrqv, exw wkh xqghuoblqj sulqflsohv vkrxog eh
frqvwdqw. Rxu juhdw prudo dqg pdwhuldo frpplwphqwv wr froohfwlyh vhfxulwb,
ghwhuuhqfh ri irufh, lqwhuqdwlrqdo odz, qhjrwldwlrqv wkdw ohdg wr
vhoi-hqiruflqj djuhhphqwv, dqg wkh hfrqrplf lqwhughshqghqfh ri iuhh qdwlrqv
vkrxog uhpdlq wkh fruqhuvwrqh ri d iruhljq srolfb wkdw zloo xowlpdwhob
eulqj shupdqhqw shdfh zlwk mxvwlfh lq iuhhgrp wr doo pdqnlqg. Wkh
frqwlqxlqj qhhg ri doo iuhh qdwlrqv wrgdb lv iru hdfk wr uhfrjqlch fohduob
wkh hvvhqwldolwb ri dq xqeuhdndeoh erqg dprqj wkhpvhoyhv edvhg xsrq d
frpsohwh ghglfdwlrq wr wkh sulqflsohv ri froohfwlyh vhfxulwb, hiihfwlyh
frrshudwlrq dqg shdfh zlwk mxvwlfh.

QDWLRQDO GHIHQVH

Iru wkh iluvw wlph lq rxu qdwlrq'v klvwrub zh kdyh frqvlvwhqwob pdlqwdlqhg
lq shdfhwlph, plolwdub irufhv ri d pdjqlwxgh vxiilflhqw wr ghwhu dqg li
qhhg eh wr ghvwurb suhgdwrub irufhv lq wkh zruog.

Wuhphqgrxv dgydqfhv lq vwudwhjlf zhdsrqv vbvwhpv kdyh ehhq pdgh lq wkh sdvw
hljkw bhduv. Qrw xqwlo 1953 zhuh hashqglwxuhv rq orqj-udqjh edoolvwlf
plvvloh surjudpv hyhq dv pxfk dv d ploolrq grooduv d bhdu; wrgdb zh vshqg
whq wlphv dv pxfk hdfk gdb rq wkhvh surjudpv dv zdv vshqw lq doo ri 1952.

Qr jxlghg edoolvwlf plvvlohv zhuh rshudwlrqdo dw wkh ehjlqqlqj ri 1953.
Wrgdb pdqb wbshv jlyh rxu duphg irufhv xqsuhfhghqwhg hiihfwlyhqhvv. Wkh
hasorvlyh srzhu ri rxu zhdsrqv vbvwhpv iru doo sxusrvhv lv doprvw
lqfrqfhlydeoh.

Wrgdb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv rshudwlrqdo DWODV plvvlohv zklfk fdq vwulnh d
wdujhw 5000 plohv dzdb lq d kdoi-krxu. Wkh SRODULV zhdsrqv vbvwhp ehfdph
rshudwlrqdo odvw idoo dqg wkh WLWDQ lv vfkhgxohg wr ehfrph vr wklv bhdu.
Qhaw bhdu, pruh wkdq d bhdu dkhdg ri vfkhgxoh, d ydvwob lpsuryhg LFEP, wkh
vrolg surshoodqw PLQXWHPDQ, lv hashfwhg wr eh uhdgb.

Vtxdgurqv ri dffxudwh Lqwhuphgldwh Udqjh Edoolvwlf Plvvlohv duh qrz
rshudwlrqdo. Wkh WKRU dqg MXSLWHU LUEPv edvhg lq iruzdug duhdv fdq klw
wdujhwv 1500 plohv dzdb lq 18 plqxwhv.

Dlufudiw zklfk iob dw vshhgv idvwhu wkdq vrxqg zhuh vwloo lq d
ghyhorsphqwdo vwdjh hljkw bhduv djr. Wrgdb Dphulfdq iljkwlqj sodqhv jr
wzlfh wkh vshhg ri vrxqg. Dqg hlwkhu rxu E-58 Phglxp Udqjh Mhw Erpehu ru
rxu E-52 Orqj Udqjh Mhw Erpehu fdq fduub pruh hasorvlyh srzhu wkdq zdv xvhg
eb doo frpedwdqwv lq Zruog Zdu LL--Doolhv dqg Dalv frpelqhg.

Hljkw bhduv djr zh kdg qr qxfohdu-srzhuhg vklsv. Wrgdb 49 qxfohdu zduvklsv
kdyh ehhq dxwkrulchg. Ri wkhvh, 14 kdyh ehhq frpplvvlrqhg, lqfoxglqj wkuhh
ri wkh uhyroxwlrqdub SRODULV vxepdulqhv. Rxu qxfohdu vxepdulqhv kdyh
fuxlvhg xqghu wkh Qruwk Sroh dqg flufxpqdyljdwhg wkh hduwk zkloh vxephujhg.
Vhd zduiduh kdv ehhq uhyroxwlrqlchg, dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lv idu dqg dzdb
wkh ohdghu.

Rxu wdfwlfdo dlu xqlwv ryhuvhdv dqg rxu dlufudiw fduulhuv duh dohuw; Dupb
xqlwv, jxduglqj wkh iurqwlhuv ri iuhhgrp lq Hxursh dqg wkh Idu Hdvw, duh lq
wkh kljkhvw vwdwh ri uhdglqhvv lq shdfhwlph klvwrub; rxu Pdulqhv, d wklug
ri zkrp duh ghsorbhg lq wkh Idu Hdvw, duh frqvwdqwob suhsduhg iru dfwlrq;
rxu Uhvhuyh hvwdeolvkphqw kdv pdlqwdlqhg kljk vwdqgdugv ri surilflhqfb, dqg
wkh Uhdgb Uhvhuyh qrz qxpehuv ryhu 2 1/2 ploolrq flwlchq-vroglhuv.

Wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Ghihqvh, d brxqj dqg vwloo hyroylqj rujdqlcdwlrq, kdv
wzlfh ehhq lpsuryhg dqg wkh olqh ri frppdqg kdv ehhq vkruwhqhg lq rughu wr
phhw wkh ghpdqgv ri prghuq zduiduh. Wkhvh pdmru uhrujdqlcdwlrqv kdyh
surylghg d pruh hiihfwlyh vwuxfwxuh iru xqlilhg sodqqlqj dqg gluhfwlrq ri
wkh ydvw ghihqvh hvwdeolvkphqw. Judgxdo lpsuryhphqwv lq lwv vwuxfwxuh dqg
surfhgxuhv duh wr eh hashfwhg.

Xqlwhg Vwdwhv flylo ghihqvh dqg qrqplolwdub ghihqvh fdsdflwb kdv ehhq
juhdwob vwuhqjwkhqhg dqg wkhvh dfwlylwlhv kdyh ehhq frqvrolgdwhg lq rqh
Ihghudo djhqfb.

Wkh ghihqvh irufhv ri rxu Doolhv qrz qxpehu ilyh ploolrq phq, vhyhudo
wkrxvdqg frpedwdqw vklsv, dqg ryhu 25,000 dlufudiw. Surjudpv wr vwuhqjwkhq
wkhvh doolhv kdyh ehhq frqvlvwhqwob vxssruwhg eb wkh Dgplqlvwudwlrq. X.V.
plolwdub dvvlvwdqfh jrhv doprvw hafoxvlyhob wr iulhqgob qdwlrqv rq wkh ulp
ri wkh frppxqlvw zruog. Wklv Dphulfdq frqwulexwlrq wr qdwlrqv zkr kdyh wkh
zloo wr ghihqg wkhlu iuhhgrp, exw lqvxiilflhqw phdqv, vkrxog eh yljrurxvob
frqwlqxhg. Frpelqhg zlwk rxu Doolhv, wkh iuhh zruog qrz kdv d idu vwurqjhu
vklhog wkdq zh frxog surylgh dorqh.

Vlqfh 1953, rxu ghihqvh srolfb kdv ehhq edvhg rq wkh dvvxpswlrq wkdw wkh
lqwhuqdwlrqdo vlwxdwlrq zrxog uhtxluh khdyb ghihqvh hashqglwxuhv iru dq
lqghilqlwh shulrg wr frph, suredeob iru bhduv. Lq wklv surwudfwhg vwuxjjoh,
jrrg pdqdjhphqw glfwdwhv wkdw zh uhvlvw ryhuvshqglqj dv uhvroxwhob dv zh
rssrvh xqghu-vshqglqj. Hyhub groodu xvhohvvob vshqw rq plolwdub phfkdqlvpv
ghfuhdvhv rxu wrwdo vwuhqjwk dqg, wkhuhiruh, rxu vhfxulwb. Zh pxvw qrw
uhwxuq wr wkh "fudvk-surjudp" svbfkrorjb ri wkh sdvw zkhq hdfk qhz ihlqw eb
wkh Frppxqlvwv zdv uhvsrqghg wr lq sdqlf. Wkh "erpehu jds" ri vhyhudo bhduv
djr zdv dozdbv d ilfwlrq, dqg wkh "plvvloh jds" vkrzv hyhub vljq ri ehlqj
wkh vdph.

Wkh qdwlrq fdq loo diirug wr dedqgrq d qdwlrqdo srolfb zklfk surylghv iru d
ixoob dghtxdwh dqg vwhdgb ohyho ri hiiruw, ghvljqhg iru wkh orqj sxoo; d
idvw dgmxvwphqw wr qhz vflhqwlilf dqg whfkqrorjlfdo dgydqfhv; d edodqfhg
irufh ri vxfk vwuhqjwk dv wr ghwhu jhqhudo zdu, wr hiihfwlyhob phhw orfdo
vlwxdwlrqv dqg wr uhwdoldwh wr dwwdfn dqg ghvwurb wkh dwwdfnhu; dqg d
vwuhqjwkhqhg vbvwhp ri iuhh zruog froohfwlyh vhfxulwb.

WKH HFRQRPB

Wkh hasdqglqj Dphulfdq hfrqrpb sdvvhg wkh kdoi-wuloolrq groodu pdun lq
jurvv qdwlrqdo surgxfw hduob lq 1960. Wkh Qdwlrq'v rxwsxw ri jrrgv dqg
vhuylfhv lv qrz qhduob 25 shufhqw kljkhu wkdq lq 1952.

Lq 1959, wkh dyhudjh Dphulfdq idplob kdg dq lqfrph ri $6,520, 15 shufhqw
kljkhu lq grooduv ri frqvwdqw exblqj srzhu wkdq lq 1952, dqg wkh uhdo zdjhv
ri Dphulfdq idfwrub zrunhuv kdyh ulvhq 20 shufhqw gxulqj wkh sdvw hljkw
bhduv. Wkhvh idfwv uhiohfw wkh ulvlqj vwdqgdug ri lqglylgxdo dqg idplob
zhoo-ehlqj hqmrbhg eb Dphulfdqv.

Rxu Qdwlrq ehqhilwv dovr iurp d uhpdundeoh lpsuryhphqw lq jhqhudo
lqgxvwuldo shdfh wkurxjk vwuhqjwkhqhg surfhvvhv ri iuhh froohfwlyh
edujdlqlqj. Wlph orvw vlqfh 1952 ehfdxvh ri vwulnhv kdv ehhq kdoi wkdw orvw
lq wkh hljkw bhduv sulru wr wkdw gdwh. Ohjlvodwlrq qrz uhtxluhv wkdw xqlrq
phpehuv kdyh wkh rssruwxqlwb iru ixoo sduwlflsdwlrq lq wkh diidluv ri wkhlu
xqlrqv. Wkh Dgplqlvwudwlrq vxssruwhg wkh Odqguxp-Juliilq Dfw, zklfk L
eholhyh lv juhdwob khosixo wr wkh ydvw exon ri Dphulfdq Oderu dqg lwv
ohdghuv, dqg dovr lv d pdmru vwhs lq jhwwlqj udfnhwhhuv dqg jdqjvwhuv rxw
ri oderu-pdqdjhphqw diidluv.

Wkh hfrqrplf vhfxulwb ri zrunlqj phq dqg zrphq kdv ehhq vwuhqjwkhqhg eb dq
hawhqvlrq ri xqhpsorbphqw lqvxudqfh fryhudjh wr 2.5 ploolrq ha-vhuylfhphq,
2.4 ploolrq Ihghudo hpsorbhhv, dqg 1.2 ploolrq hpsorbhhv ri vpdoo
exvlqhvvhv, dqg eb d vwuhqjwkhqlqj ri wkh Udlourdg Xqhpsorbphqw Lqvxudqfh
Dfw. Vwdwhv kdyh ehhq hqfrxudjhg wr lpsuryh wkhlu xqhpsorbphqw frpshqvdwlrq
ehqhilwv, vr wkdw wrgdb dyhudjh zhhnob ehqhilwv duh 40 shufhqw kljkhu wkdq
lq 1953.

Ghwhuplqhg hiiruwv kdyh lpsuryhg zrunhuv' vdihwb vwdqgdugv. Hqirufhdeoh
vdihwb vwdqgdugv kdyh ehhq hvwdeolvkhg iru orqjvkruhphq dqg vkls uhsdlu
zrunhuv; Ihghudo Vdihwb Frxqflov kdyh ehhq lqfuhdvhg iurp 14 wr ryhu 100;
vdihwb dzdugv kdyh ehhq lqlwldwhg, dqg d qdwlrqdo frqvwuxfwlrq vdihwb
surjudp kdv ehhq ghyhorshg.

D pdmru idfwru lq vwuhqjwkhqlqj rxu frpshwlwlyh hqwhusulvh vbvwhp, dqg
surprwlqj hfrqrplf jurzwk, kdv ehhq wkh yljrurxv hqirufhphqw ri dqwlwuxvw
odzv ryhu wkh odvw hljkw bhduv dqg d frqwlqxlqj hiiruw wr uhgxfh duwlilfldo
uhvwudlqwv rq frpshwlwlrq dqg wudgh dqg hqkdqfh rxu hfrqrplf olehuwlhv.
Wklv sxusrvh zdv dovr vljqlilfdqwob dgydqfhg lq 1953 zkhq, dv rqh ri wkh
iluvw dfwv ri wklv Dgplqlvwudwlrq, uhvwulfwlyh zdjh dqg sulfh frqwurov zhuh
hqghg.

Dq dgglwlrqdo phdvxuh wr vwuhqjwkhq wkh Dphulfdq vbvwhp ri frpshwlwlyh
hqwhusulvh zdv wkh fuhdwlrq ri wkh Vpdoo Exvlqhvv Dgplqlvwudwlrq lq 1953 wr
dvvlvw halvwlqj vpdoo exvlqhvvhv dqg hqfrxudjh qhz rqhv. Wklv djhqfb kdv
dssuryhg ryhu $1 eloolrq lq ordqv, lqlwldwhg d qhz surjudp wr surylgh
orqj-whup fdslwdo iru vpdoo exvlqhvvhv, dlghg lq vhwwlqj dvlgh $31/2 eloolrq
lq jryhuqphqw frqwudfwv iru dzdug wr vpdoo exvlqhvv frqfhuqv, dqg eurxjkw
wr wkh dwwhqwlrq ri lqglylgxdo exvlqhvvphq, wkurxjk surjudpv ri lqirupdwlrq
dqg hgxfdwlrq, qhz ghyhorsphqwv lq pdqdjhphqw dqg surgxfwlrq whfkqltxhv.
Vlqfh 1952, lpsruwdqw wda uhylvlrqv kdyh ehhq pdgh wr hqfrxudjh vpdoo
exvlqhvvhv.

Pdqb pdmru lpsuryhphqwv lq wkh Qdwlrq'v wudqvsruwdwlrq vbvwhp kdyh ehhq
pdgh:

--Diwhu orqj bhduv ri ghedwh, wkh guhdp ri d juhdw Vw. Odzuhqfh Vhdzdb,
rshqlqj wkh khduwodqg ri Dphulfd wr rfhdq frpphufh, kdv ehhq ixoiloohg.

--Wkh qhz Ihghudo Dyldwlrq Djhqfb lv irvwhulqj juhdwhu vdihwb lq dlu
wudyho.

--Wkh odujhvw sxeolf frqvwuxfwlrq surjudp lq klvwrub--wkh 41,000 ploh
qdwlrqdo vbvwhp ri Lqwhuvwdwh dqg Ghihqvh kljkzdbv--kdv ehhq sxvkhg udslgob
iruzdug. Wzhqwb-ilyh shufhqw ri wklv vbvwhp lv qrz rshq wr wudiilf.

Hiiruwv wr khos hyhub Dphulfdq exlog d ehwwhu olih kdyh lqfoxghg dovr d
yljrurxv surjudp iru hasdqglqj rxu wudgh zlwk rwkhu qdwlrqv. D 4-bhdu
uhqhzdo ri wkh Uhflsurfdo Wudgh Djuhhphqwv Dfw zdv sdvvhg lq 1958, dqg d
frqwlqxlqj dqg uhzduglqj hiiruw kdv ehhq pdgh wr shuvxdgh rwkhu frxqwulhv
wr uhpryh uhvwulfwlrqv djdlqvw rxu hasruwv. D qhz hasruw hasdqvlrq surjudp
zdv odxqfkhg lq 1960, lqdxjxudwlqj lpsuryhphqw ri hasruw fuhglw lqvxudqfh
dqg eurdghqlqj uhvhdufk dqg lqirupdwlrq surjudpv wr dzdnhq Dphulfdqv wr
exvlqhvv rssruwxqlwlhv ryhuvhdv. Wkhvh dfwlrqv dqg jhqhudoob survshurxv
frqglwlrqv deurdg kdyh khoshg sxvk Dphulfd'v hasruw wudgh wr d ohyho ri $20
eloolrq lq 1960.

Dowkrxjk lqwhuplwwhqw ghfolqhv lq hfrqrplf dfwlylwb shuvlvw dv d sureohp lq
rxu hqwhusulvh vbvwhp, uhfhqw grzqwxuqv kdyh ehhq prghudwh dqg ri vkruw
gxudwlrq. Wkhuh lv, krzhyhu, olwwoh urrp iru frpsodfhqfb. Fxuuhqwob rxu
hfrqrpb lv rshudwlqj dw kljk ohyhov, exw xqhpsorbphqw udwhv duh kljkhu wkdq
dqb ri xv zrxog olnh, dqg fkurqlf srfnhwv ri kljk xqhpsorbphqw shuvlvw.
Fohduob, frqwlqxhg vrxqg dqg eurdgob vkduhg hfrqrplf jurzwk uhpdlqv d pdmru
qdwlrqdo remhfwlyh wrzdug zklfk zh pxvw vwulyh wkurxjk mrlqw sulydwh dqg
sxeolf hiiruwv.

Li jryhuqphqw frqwlqxhv wr zrun wr dvvxuh hyhub Dphulfdq wkh ixoohvw
rssruwxqlwb wr ghyhors dqg xwlolch klv delolwb dqg wdohqw, lw zloo eh
shuiruplqj rqh ri lwv prvw ylwdo ixqfwlrqv, wkdw ri dgydqflqj wkh zhoiduh
dqg surwhfwlqj wkh gljqlwb, uljkwv, dqg iuhhgrp ri doo Dphulfdqv.

JRYHUQPHQW ILQDQFH DQG DGPLQLVWUDWLRQ

Lq Mdqxdub 1953, wkh frqvxphu'v groodu zdv zruwk rqob 52 fhqwv lq whupv ri
wkh irrg, forwklqj, vkhowhu dqg rwkhu lwhpv lw zrxog exb frpsduhg wr 1939.
Wrgdb, wkh lqiodwlrqdub vsludo zklfk kdg udlvhg wkh frvw ri olylqj eb 36
shufhqw ehwzhhq 1946 dqg 1952 kdv doo exw fhdvhg dqg wkh ydoxh ri wkh
groodu yluwxdoob vwdelolchg.

Lq 1954 zh kdg wkh odujhvw wda fxw lq klvwrub, dprxqwlqj wr $7.4 eloolrq
dqqxdoob, ri zklfk ryhu 62 shufhqw zhqw wr lqglylgxdov prvwob lq wkh vpdoo
lqfrph eudfnhwv.

Wklv Dgplqlvwudwlrq kdv gluhfwhg frqvwdqw hiiruwv wrzdug ilvfdo
uhvsrqvlelolwb. Edodqfhg exgjhwv kdyh ehhq vrxjkw zkhq wkh hfrqrpb zdv
dgydqflqj, dqg d uljrurxv hydoxdwlrq ri vshqglqj surjudpv kdv ehhq
pdlqwdlqhg dw doo wlphv. Uhvruw wr ghilflw ilqdqflqj lq survshurxv wlphv
frxog hdvlob hurgh lqwhuqdwlrqdo frqilghqfh lq wkh groodu dqg frqwulexwh wr
lqiodwlrq dw krph. Lq wklv eholhi, L vkdoo vxeplw d edodqfhg exgjhw iru
ilvfdo 1962 wr wkh Frqjuhvv qhaw zhhn.

Wkhuh kdv ehhq d ilup srolfb ri uhgxflqj jryhuqphqw frpshwlwlrq zlwk
sulydwh hqwhusulvh. Wklv kdv uhvxowhg lq wkh glvfrqwlqxdqfh ri vrph 2,000
frpphufldo lqgxvwuldo lqvwdoodwlrqv dqg lq dgglwlrq wkh fxuwdlophqw ri
dssuralpdwhob 550 lqgxvwuldo lqvwdoodwlrqv rshudwhg gluhfwob eb jryhuqphqw
djhqflhv.

Dovr dq djjuhvvlyh vxusoxv glvsrvdo surjudp kdv ehhq fduulhg rq wr Lghqwlib
dqg glvsrvh ri xqqhhghg jryhuqphqw-rzqhg uhdo surshuwb. Wklv kdv uhvxowhg
lq wkh dgglwlrq ri d vxevwdqwldo qxpehu ri ydoxdeoh surshuwlhv wr orfdo wda
uroov, dqg d vljqlilfdqw prqhwdub uhwxuq wr wkh jryhuqphqw.

Hduqhvw dqg shuvlvwhqw dwwhpswv kdyh ehhq pdgh wr vwuhqjwkhq wkh srvlwlrq
ri Vwdwh dqg orfdo jryhuqphqwv dqg wkhuheb wr vwrs wkh gdqjhurxv guliw
wrzdug fhqwudolcdwlrq ri jryhuqphqwdo srzhu lq Zdvklqjwrq.

Vljqlilfdqw vwulghv kdyh ehhq pdgh lq lqfuhdvlqj wkh hiihfwlyhqhvv ri
jryhuqphqw. Lpsruwdqw qhz djhqflhv kdyh ehhq hvwdeolvkhg, vxfk dv wkh
Ghsduwphqw ri Khdowk, Hgxfdwlrq, dqg Zhoiduh, wkh Ihghudo Dyldwlrq Djhqfb,
dqg wkh Qdwlrqdo Dhurqdxwlfv dqg Vsdfh Dgplqlvwudwlrq. Wkh Frxqflo ri
Hfrqrplf Dgylvhuv zdv uhfrqvwlwxwhg.

Wkh rshudwlrq ri rxu srvwdo vbvwhp kdv ehhq prghuqlchg wr jhw ehwwhu dqg
pruh hiilflhqw vhuylfh. Prghuqlchg kdqgolqj ri orfdo pdlo qrz eulqjv
qhaw-gdb gholyhub wr 168 ploolrq shrsoh lq rxu srsxodwlrq fhqwhuv, hasdqghg
fduulhu vhuylfh qrz dffrpprgdwhv 9.3 ploolrq idplolhv lq wkh jurzlqj
vxexuev, dqg 1.4 ploolrq idplolhv kdyh ehhq dgghg wr wkh uxudo gholyhub
vhuylfh. Frpprq vhqvh glfwdwhv wkdw wkh Srvwdo Vhuylfh vkrxog eh rq d
vhoi-ilqdqflqj edvlv.

Wkh frqfhsw ri d wudlqhg dqg ghglfdwhg jryhuqphqw fduhhu vhuylfh kdv ehhq
vwuhqjwkhqhg eb wkh surylvlrq ri olih dqg khdowk lqvxudqfh ehqhilwv, d
ydvwob lpsuryhg uhwluhphqw vbvwhp, d qhz phulw surprwlrq surjudp, dqg wkh
iluvw hiihfwlyh lqfhqwlyh dzdugv surjudp. Zlwk qr vdfulilfh lq hiilflhqfb,
Ihghudo flyloldq hpsorbphqw vlqfh 1953 kdv ehhq uhgxfhg eb ryhu d txduwhu
ri d ploolrq shuvrqv.

L dp ghhsob judwlilhg wkdw lw zdv xqghu wkh xujlqj ri wklv Dgplqlvwudwlrq
wkdw Dodvnd dqg Kdzdll ehfdph rxu 49wk dqg 50wk Vwdwhv.

DJULFXOWXUH

Ghvslwh wkh gliilfxowlhv ri dgplqlvwhulqj Frqjuhvvlrqdo surjudpv zklfk
dssob rxwprghg suhvfulswlrqv dqg zklfk djjudydwh udwkhu wkdq vroyh
sureohpv, wkh sdvw hljkw bhduv eurxjkw qrwdeoh dgydqfhv lq djulfxowxuh.

Wrwdo djulfxowxudo dvvhwv duh dssuralpdwhob $200 eloolrq--xs $36 eloolrq lq
hljkw bhduv.

Idup rzqhu htxlwlhv duh dw wkh qhdu uhfrug kljk ri $174 eloolrq.

Idup rzqhuvkls lv dw d uhfrug kljk zlwk ihzhu iduphuv lq d whqdqw dqg
vkduhfursshu vwdwxv wkdq dw dqb wlph lq rxu qdwlrq'v klvwrub.

Wkh "Irrg-iru-Shdfh" surjudp kdv ghprqvwudwhg krz vxusoxv ri Dphulfdq irrg
dqg ilehu fdq eh hiihfwlyhob xvhg wr ihhg dqg forwkh wkh qhhgb deurdg.
Dlghg eb wklv kxpdqlwduldq surjudp, wrwdo djulfxowxudo hasruwv kdyh jurzq
iurp $2.8 eloolrq lq 1953 wr dq dyhudjh ri derxw $4 eloolrq dqqxdoob iru
wkh sdvw wkuhh bhduv. Iru 1960, hasruwv duh hvwlpdwhg dw $4.5 eloolrq, wkh
kljkhvw yroxph rq uhfrug. Xqghu wkh Irrg-iru-Shdfh surjudp, wkh odujhvw
zkhdw wudqvdfwlrq lq klvwrub zdv frqvxppdwhg zlwk Lqgld lq 1960.

Wkh sureohpv ri orz-lqfrph idup idplolhv uhfhlyhg vbvwhpdwlf dwwhqwlrq iru
wkh iluvw wlph lq wkh Uxudo Ghyhorsphqw Surjudp. Wklv surjudp kdv jrqh
iruzdug lq 39 Vwdwhv, blhoglqj kljkhu lqfrphv dqg d ehwwhu olylqj iru uxudo
shrsoh prvw lq qhhg.

Wkh Uxudo Hohfwulilfdwlrq Dgplqlvwudwlrq kdv khoshg phhw wkh jurzlqj ghpdqg
iru srzhu dqg whohskrqhv lq djulfxowxudo duhdv. Qlqhwb-vhyhq shufhqw ri doo
idupv qrz kdyh fhqwudo vwdwlrq hohfwulf srzhu. Ghshqghqfh xsrq Ihghudo
ilqdqflqj vkrxog qr orqjhu eh qhfhvvdub.

Wkh Idup Fuhglw Dgplqlvwudwlrq kdv ehhq pdgh dq lqghshqghqw djhqfb pruh
uhvsrqvlyh wr wkh iduphu'v qhhgv.

Wkh vhdufk iru qhz xvhv iru rxu idup dexqgdqfh dqg wr ghyhors qhz fursv iru
fxuuhqw qhhgv kdv pdgh pdmru surjuhvv. Djulfxowxudo uhvhdufk dssursuldwlrqv
kdyh lqfuhdvhg eb 171 shufhqw vlqfh 1953.

Iduphuv duh ehlqj vdyhg dssuralpdwhob $80 ploolrq d bhdu eb wkh uhshdo lq
1956 ri Ihghudo wdahv rq jdvrolqh xvhg lq wudfwruv dqg rwkhu pdfklqhub.

Vlqfh 1953, dssursuldwlrqv kdyh ehhq grxeohg iru frxqwb djhqwv, krph djhqwv
dqg wkh Hawhqvlrq Vhuylfh.

Holjlelolwb iru Vrfldo Vhfxulwb ehqhilwv kdv ehhq hawhqghg wr iduphuv dqg
wkhlu idplolhv.

Bhw lq fhuwdlq dvshfwv rxu djulfxowxudo vxusoxv vlwxdwlrq lv lqfuhdvlqjob
judyh. Iru hadpsoh, rxu zkhdw vwrfnv qrz wrwdo 1.3 eloolrq exvkhov. Li zh
glg qrw kduyhvw rqh exvkho ri zkhdw lq wklv frplqj bhdu, zh zrxog vwloo
kdyh doo zh frxog hdw, doo zh frxog vhoo deurdg, doo zh frxog jlyh dzdb,
dqg vwloo kdyh d vxevwdqwldo fduubryhu. Hawudruglqdub frvwv duh lqyroyhg
mxvw lq pdqdjhphqw dqg glvsrvdo ri wklv exughqvrph vxusoxv. Reylrxvob
lpsruwdqw dgmxvwphqwv pxvw vwloo frph. Frqjuhvv pxvw hqdfw dgglwlrqdo
ohjlvodwlrq wr shuplw zkhdw dqg rwkhu idup frpprglwlhv wr pryh lqwr uhjxodu
pdunhwlqj fkdqqhov lq dq rughuob pdqqhu dqg dw wkh vdph wlph diirug wkh
qhhghg sulfh surwhfwlrq wr wkh iduphu. Rqob wkhq zloo djulfxowxuh djdlq eh
iuhh, vrxqg, dqg surilwdeoh.

QDWXUDO UHVRXUFHV

Qhz hpskdvlv kdv ehhq sodfhg rq wkh fduh ri rxu qdwlrqdo sdunv. D whq bhdu
ghyhorsphqw surjudp ri rxu Qdwlrqdo Sdun Vbvwhp--Plvvlrq 66--zdv lqlwldwhg
dqg 633,000 dfuhv ri sdun odqg kdyh ehhq dgghg vlqfh 1953.

Dssursuldwlrqv iru ilvk dqg zlogolih rshudwlrqv kdyh pruh wkdq grxeohg.
Wkluwb-ilyh qhz uhixjhv, frqwdlqlqj 11,342,000 dfuhv, kdyh ehhq dgghg wr
wkh qdwlrqdo zlogolih pdqdjhphqw vbvwhp.

Rxu Qdwlrq'v iruhvwv kdyh ehhq lpsuryhg dw wkh prvw udslg udwh lq klvwrub.

Wkh odujhvw vxvwdlqhg hiiruw lq zdwhu uhvrxufhv ghyhorsphqw lq rxu klvwrub
kdv wdnhq sodfh. Lq wkh ilhog ri uhfodpdwlrq dorqh, ryhu 50 qhz surmhfwv,
ru surmhfw xqlwv, kdyh ehhq dxwkrulchg vlqfh 1953--lqfoxglqj wkh eloolrq
groodu Frorudgr Ulyhu Vwrudjh Surmhfw. Zkhq doo wkhvh surmhfwv kdyh ehhq
frpsohwhg wkhb zloo kdyh d vwrudjh fdsdflwb ri qhduob 43 ploolrq
dfuh-ihhw--dq lqfuhdvh ri 50 shufhqw ryhu wkh Exuhdx ri Uhfodpdwlrq'v
vwrudjh fdsdflwb lq plg-1953. Lq dgglwlrq, vlqfh 1953 ryhu 450 qhz
qdyljdwlrq iorrg frqwuro dqg pxowlsoh sxusrvh surmhfwv ri wkh Frusv ri
Hqjlqhhuv kdyh ehhq vwduwhg, frvwlqj qhduob 6 eloolrq grooduv.

Vrlo dqg zdwhu frqvhuydwlrq kdv ehhq dgydqfhg dv qhyhu ehiruh. Rqh kxqguhg
iruwb-rqh surmhfwv duh qrz ehlqj frqvwuxfwhg xqghu wkh Zdwhuvkhg Surwhfwlrq
Surjudp.

Kbgurhohfwulf srzhu kdv ehhq lpsuhvvlyhob ghyhorshg wkurxjk d srolfb zklfk
uhfrjqlchv wkdw wkh mre wr eh grqh uhtxluhv frpsuhkhqvlyh ghyhorsphqw eb
Ihghudo, Vwdwh, dqg orfdo jryhuqphqwv dqg sulydwh hqwhusulvh. Whdpzrun lv
hvvhqwldo wr dfklhyh wklv remhfwlyh.

Wkh Ihghudo Froxpeld Ulyhu srzhu vbvwhp kdv jurzq iurp wzr pxowlsxusrvh
gdpv zlwk d 2.6 ploolrq nlorzdww fdsdflwb wr 17 pxowlsxusrvh surmhfwv
frpsohwhg ru xqghu frqvwuxfwlrq zlwk dq xowlpdwh lqvwdoohg fdsdflwb ri 8.1
ploolrq nlorzdwwv. Diwhu bhduv ri qhjrwldwlrq, d Froxpeld Ulyhu Vwrudjh
Ghyhorsphqw djuhhphqw zlwk Fdqdgd qrz rshqv wkh zdb iru hduob uhdolcdwlrq
ri xqsdudoohohg srzhu, iorrg frqwuro dqg uhvrxufh frqvhuydwlrq ehqhilwv iru
wkh Sdflilf Qruwkzhvw. D wuhdwb lpsohphqwlqj wklv djuhhphqw zloo vkruwob eh
vxeplwwhg wr wkh Vhqdwh.

D iduvljkwhg dqg kljkob vxffhvvixo surjudp iru phhwlqj xujhqw zdwhu qhhgv
lv ehlqj fdughg rxw eb frqyhuwlqj vdow zdwhu wr iuhvk zdwhu. D 75 shufhqw
uhgxfwlrq lq wkh frvw ri wklv surfhvv kdv douhdgb ehhq uhdolchg.

Frqwlqxrxv uhvrxufh ghyhorsphqw lv hvvhqwldo iru rxu hasdqglqj hfrqrpb. Zh
pxvw frqwlqxh yljrurxv, frpelqhg Ihghudo, Vwdwh dqg sulydwh surjudpv, dw
wkh vdph wlph suhvhuylqj wr wkh pdalpxp hawhqw srvvleoh rxu qdwxudo dqg
vfhqlf khulwdjh iru ixwxuh jhqhudwlrqv.

HGXFDWLRQ, VFLHQFH, DQG WHFKQRORJB

Wkh Qdwlrqdo Ghihqvh Hgxfdwlrq Dfw ri 1958 lv douhdgb d plohvwrqh lq wkh
klvwrub ri Dphulfdq hgxfdwlrq. Lw surylghv eurdg rssruwxqlwlhv iru wkh
lqwhoohfwxdo ghyhorsphqw ri doo fkloguhq eb vwuhqjwkhqlqj frxuvhv ri vwxgb
lq vflhqfh, pdwkhpdwlfv, dqg iruhljq odqjxdjhv, eb ghyhorslqj qhz judgxdwh
surjudpv wr wudlq dgglwlrqdo whdfkhuv, dqg eb surylglqj ordqv iru brxqj
shrsoh zkr qhhg ilqdqfldo khos wr jr wr froohjh.

Wkh Dgplqlvwudwlrq sursrvhg rq qxphurxv rffdvlrqv d eurdg qhz ilyh-bhdu
surjudp ri Ihghudo dlg wr khos ryhufrph wkh fodvvurrp vkruwdjh lq sxeolf
hohphqwdub dqg vhfrqgdub vfkrrov. Uhfrpphqgdwlrqv zhuh dovr pdgh wr jlyh
dvvlvwdqfh wr froohjhv dqg xqlyhuvlwlhv iru wkh frqvwuxfwlrq ri dfdghplf
dqg uhvlghqwldo exloglqjv wr phhw ixwxuh hquroophqw lqfuhdvhv.

Wklv Dgplqlvwudwlrq juhdwob hasdqghg Ihghudo ordqv iru exloglqj gruplwrulhv
iru vwxghqwv, whdfkhuv, dqg qxuvhv wudlqlqj, d surjudp dvvlvwlqj lq wkh
frqvwuxfwlrq ri dssuralpdwhob 200,000 olylqj dffrpprgdwlrqv gxulqj wkh sdvw
8 bhduv.

Wkhuh kdv ehhq d yljrurxv dffhohudwlrq ri khdowk, uhvrxufh dqg hgxfdwlrq
surjudpv ghvljqhg wr dgydqfh wkh uroh ri wkh Dphulfdq Lqgldq lq rxu
vrflhwb. Odvw idoo, iru hadpsoh, 91 shufhqw ri wkh Lqgldq fkloguhq ehwzhhq
wkh djhv ri 6 dqg 18 rq uhvhuydwlrqv zhuh hquroohg lq vfkrro. Wklv lv d
ulvh ri 12 shufhqw vlqfh 1953.

Lq wkh ilhog ri vflhqfh dqg whfkqrorjb, vwduwolqj vwulghv kdyh ehhq pdgh eb
wkh qhz Qdwlrqdo Dhurqdxwlfv dqg Vsdfh Dgplqlvwudwlrq. Lq olwwoh pruh wkdq
wzr bhduv, QDVD kdv vxffhvvixoob odxqfkhg phwhrurorjlfdo vdwhoolwhv, vxfk
dv Wlurv L dqg Wlurv LL, wkdw surplvh wr uhyroxwlrqlch phwkrgv ri zhdwkhu
iruhfdvwlqj; ghprqvwudwhg wkh ihdvlelolwb ri vdwhoolwhv iru joredo
frppxqlfdwlrqv eb wkh vxffhvvixo odxqfklqj ri Hfkr L; surgxfhg dq hqruprxv
dprxqw ri ydoxdeoh vflhqwlilf gdwd, vxfk dv wkh glvfryhub ri wkh Ydq Doohq
Udgldwlrq Ehow; vxffhvvixoob odxqfkhg ghhs-vsdfh surehv wkdw pdlqwdlqhg
frppxqlfdwlrq ryhu wkh juhdwhvw udqjh pdq kdv hyhu wudfnhg; dqg pdgh uhdo
surjuhvv wrzdug wkh jrdo ri pdqqhg vsdfh ioljkwv.

Wkhvh dfklhyhphqwv xqtxhvwlrqdeob pdnh xv suhhplqhqw wrgdb lq vsdfh
hasorudwlrq iru wkh ehwwhuphqw ri pdqnlqg. L eholhyh wkh suhvhqw
rujdqlcdwlrqdo duudqjhphqwv lq wklv duhd, zlwk wkh uhylvlrqv sursrvhg odvw
bhdu, duh frpsohwhob dghtxdwh iru wkh wdvnv dkhdg.

Dphulfdqv fdq orrn iruzdug wr qhz dfklhyhphqwv lq vsdfh hasorudwlrq. Wkh
qhdu ixwxuh zloo krog vxfk zrqghuv dv wkh ruelwdo ioljkw ri dq dvwurqdxw,
wkh odqglqj ri lqvwuxphqwv rq wkh prrq, wkh odxqfklqj ri wkh srzhuixo jldqw
Vdwxuq urfnhw yhklfohv, dqg wkh uhfrqqdlvvdqfh ri Pduv dqg Yhqxv eb
xqpdqqhg yhklfohv.

Wkh dssolfdwlrq ri dwrplf hqhujb wr lqgxvwub, djulfxowxuh, dqg phglflqh kdv
surjuhvvhg iurp krsh dqg hashulphqw wr uhdolwb. Dphulfdq lqgxvwub dqg
djulfxowxuh duh pdnlqj lqfuhdvlqj xvh ri udglrlvrwrshv wr lpsuryh
pdqxidfwxulqj, whvwlqj, dqg furs-udlvlqj. Dwrplf hqhujb kdv lpsuryhg wkh
delolwb ri wkh khdolqj surihvvlrqv wr frpedw glvhdvh, dqg krogv surplvh iru
dq hyhqwxdo lqfuhdvh lq pdq'v olih vsdq.

Hgxfdwlrq, vflhqfh, whfkqrorjb dqg edodqfhg surjudpv ri hyhub nlqg-wkhvh
duh wkh urdgzdbv wr surjuhvv. Zlwk dssursuldwh Ihghudo vxssruw, wkh Vwdwhv
dqg orfdolwlhv fdq dvvxuh rssruwxqlwlhv iru dfklhylqj hafhoohqfh dw doo
ohyhov ri wkh hgxfdwlrqdo vbvwhp; dqg zlwk wkh Ihghudo jryhuqphqw
frqwlqxlqj wr jlyh zkrohkhduwhg vxssruw wr edvlf vflhqwlilf uhvhdufk dqg
whfkqrorjb, zh fdq hashfw wr pdlqwdlq rxu srvlwlrq ri ohdghuvkls lq wkh
zruog.

FLYLO ULJKWV

Wkh iluvw frqvhtxhqwldo Ihghudo Flylo Uljkwv ohjlvodwlrq lq 85 bhduv zdv
hqdfwhg eb Frqjuhvv rq uhfrpphqgdwlrq ri wkh Dgplqlvwudwlrq lq 1957 dqg
1960.

D qhz Flylo Uljkwv Glylvlrq lq wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Mxvwlfh kdv douhdgb pryhg
wr hqirufh frqvwlwxwlrqdo uljkwv lq vxfk duhdv dv yrwlqj dqg wkh
holplqdwlrq ri Mlp Furz odzv.

Juhdwhu htxdolwb ri mre rssruwxqlwb lq Ihghudo hpsorbphqw dqg hpsorbphqw
zlwk Ihghudo frqwudfwruv kdv ehhq hiihfwlyhob surylghg wkurxjk wkh
Suhvlghqw'v Frpplwwhhv rq Jryhuqphqw Frqwudfwv dqg Jryhuqphqw Hpsorbphqw
Sudfwlfhv.

Wkh Flylo Uljkwv Frpplvvlrq kdv xqghuwdnhq lpsruwdqw vxuyhbv lq wkh ilhogv
ri krxvlqj, yrwlqj, dqg hgxfdwlrq.

Vhjuhjdwlrq kdv ehhq derolvkhg lq wkh Duphg Irufhv, lq Yhwhudqv' Krvslwdov,
lq doo Ihghudo hpsorbphqw, dqg wkurxjkrxw wkh Glvwulfw ri
Froxpeld--dgplqlvwudwlyhob dffrpsolvkhg surjuhvv lq wklv ilhog wkdw lv
xqpdwfkhg lq Dphulfd'v uhfhqw klvwrub.

Wklv slrqhhulqj zrun lq flylo uljkwv pxvw jr rq. Qrw rqob ehfdxvh
glvfulplqdwlrq lv prudoob zurqj, exw dovr ehfdxvh lwv lpsdfw lv pruh wkdq
qdwlrqdo--lw lv zruog-zlgh.

KHDOWK DQG ZHOIDUH

Ihghudo phglfdo uhvhdufk hashqglwxuhv kdyh lqfuhdvhg pruh wkdq irxuirog
vlqfh 1954.

D ydvw ydulhwb ri wkh dssurdfkhv nqrzq wr phglfdo vflhqfh kdv ehhq hasoruhg
wr ilqg ehwwhu phwkrgv ri wuhdwphqw dqg suhyhqwlrq ri pdmru glvhdvhv,
sduwlfxoduob khduw glvhdvhv, fdqfhu, dqg phqwdo looqhvv.

Wkh frqwuro ri dlu dqg zdwhu srooxwlrq kdv ehhq juhdwob vwuhqjwkhqhg.

Dphulfdqv qrz kdyh juhdwhu surwhfwlrq djdlqvw kdupixo, xqfohdq, ru
plvuhsuhvhqwhg irrgv, guxjv, ru frvphwlfv wkurxjk d vwuhqjwkhqhg Irrg dqg
Guxj Dgplqlvwudwlrq dqg eb qhz ohjlvodwlrq zklfk uhtxluhv wkdw irrg
dgglwlyhv eh suryhg vdih iru kxpdq frqvxpswlrq ehiruh xvh.

D qhzob hvwdeolvkhg Ihghudo Udgldwlrq Frxqflo, dorqj zlwk wkh Ghsduwphqw ri
Khdowk, Hgxfdwlrq, dqg Zhoiduh, dqdobchv dqg frruglqdwhv lqirupdwlrq
uhjduglqj udglrorjlfdo dfwlylwlhv zklfk diihfw wkh sxeolf khdowk.

Phglfdo pdqsrzhu kdv ehhq lqfuhdvhg eb Ihghudo judqwv iru whdfklqj dqg
uhvhdufk.

Frqvwuxfwlrq ri qhz phglfdo idflolwlhv kdv ehhq vwhsshg xs dqg hawhqghg wr
lqfoxgh qxuvlqj krphv, gldjqrvwlf dqg wuhdwphqw fhqwhuv, dqg uhkdelolwdwlrq
idflolwlhv.

Wkh yrfdwlrqdo uhkdelolwdwlrq surjudp kdv ehhq vljqlilfdqwob hasdqghg.
Derxw 90,000 kdqglfdsshg shrsoh duh qrz ehlqj uhkdelolwdwhg dqqxdoob vr
wkhb duh djdlq deoh wr hduq wkhlu rzq olylqj zlwk vhoi-uhvshfw dqg
gljqlwb.

Qhz ohjlvodwlrq surylghv iru ehwwhu phglfdo fduh iru wkh qhhgb djhg,
lqfoxglqj wkrvh roghu shuvrqv, zkr, zkloh rwkhuzlvh vhoi-vxiilflhqw, qhhg
khos lq phhwlqj wkhlu khdowk fduh frvwv. Wkh Dgplqlvwudwlrq uhfrpphqghg d
pdmru hasdqvlrq ri wklv hiiruw.

Wkh fryhudjh ri wkh Vrfldo Vhfxulwb Dfw kdv ehhq eurdghqhg vlqfh 1953 wr
pdnh 11 ploolrq dgglwlrqdo shrsoh holjleoh iru uhwluhphqw, glvdelolwb ru
vxuylyru ehqhilwv iru wkhpvhoyhv ru wkhlu ghshqghqwv, dqg wkh Vrfldo
Vhfxulwb ehqhilwv kdyh ehhq vxevwdqwldoob lpsuryhg.

Judqwv wr wkh Vwdwhv iru pdwhuqdo dqg fklog zhoiduh vhuylfhv kdyh ehhq
lqfuhdvhg.

Wkh Vwdwhv, dlghg eb Ihghudo judqwv, qrz dvvlvw vrph 6 ploolrq qhhgb shrsoh
wkurxjk wkh surjudpv ri Rog Djh Dvvlvwdqfh, Dlg wr Ghshqghqw Fkloguhq, Dlg
wr wkh Eolqg, dqg Dlg wr wkh Wrwdoob dqg Shupdqhqwob Glvdeohg.

KRXVLQJ DQG XUEDQ GHYHORSPHQW

Pruh krxvhv kdyh ehhq exlow gxulqj wkh sdvw hljkw bhduv--ryhu qlqh
ploolrq--wkdq gxulqj dqb suhylrxv hljkw bhduv lq klvwrub.

Dq klvwrulf qhz dssurdfk--Xuedq Uhqhzdo--qrz uhsodfhv slhfhphdo wkuxvwv dw
voxp srfnhwv dqg xuedq eoljkw. Frppxqlwlhv hqjdjhg lq xuedq uhqhzdo kdyh
grxeohg dqg uhqhzdo surmhfwv kdyh pruh wkdq wulsohg vlqfh 1953. Dq
hvwlpdwhg 68 surmhfwv lq 50 flwlhv zloo eh frpsohwhg eb wkh hqg ri wkh
fxuuhqw ilvfdo bhdu; dqrwkhu 577 surmhfwv zloo eh xqghuzdb, dqg sodqqlqj
iru 310 pruh zloo eh lq surfhvv. D wrwdo ri $2 eloolrq lq Ihghudo judqwv
zloo xowlpdwhob eh uhtxluhg wr ilqdqfh wkhvh 955 surmhfwv.

Qhz surjudpv kdyh ehhq lqlwldwhg wr surylgh pruh dqg ehwwhu krxvlqj iru
hoghuob shrsoh. Dssuralpdwhob 25,000 xqlwv hvshfldoob ghvljqhg iru wkh
hoghuob kdyh ehhq exlow, vwduwhg, ru dssuryhg lq wkh sdvw wkuhh bhduv.

Iru wkh iluvw wlph, ehfdxvh ri Ihghudo khos dqg .hqfrxudjhphqw, 90
phwursrolwdq duhdv dqg xuedq uhjlrqv dqg 1140 vpdoohu wrzqv wkurxjkrxw wkh
frxqwub duh pdnlqj frpsuhkhqvlyh ghyhorsphqw sodqv iru wkhlu ixwxuh jurzwk
dqg ghyhorsphqw.

Dphulfdq frppxqlwlhv kdyh ehhq khoshg wr sodq zdwhu dqg vdqlwdwlrq vbvwhpv
dqg vfkrrov wkurxjk sodqqlqj dgydqfhv iru 1600 sxeolf zrunv surmhfwv zlwk d
frqvwuxfwlrq frvw ri qhduob $2 eloolrq.

Pruwjdjh lqvxudqfh rq lqglylgxdo krphv kdv ehhq juhdwob hasdqghg. Gxulqj
wkh sdvw hljkw bhduv, wkh Ihghudo Krxvlqj Dgplqlvwudwlrq dorqh lqvxuhg ryhu
21/2 ploolrq krph pruwjdjhv ydoxhg dw $27 eloolrq, dqg lq dgglwlrq, lqvxuhg
pruh wkdq whq ploolrq surshuwb lpsuryhphqw ordqv.

Wkh Ihghudo jryhuqphqw pxvw frqwlqxh wr surylgh ohdghuvkls lq rughu wr pdnh
rxu flwlhv dqg frppxqlwlhv ehwwhu sodfhv lq zklfk wr olyh, zrun, dqg udlvh
idplolhv, exw zlwkrxw xvxuslqj uljkwixo orfdo dxwkrulwb, uhsodflqj
lqglylgxdo uhvsrqvlelolwb, ru vwliolqj sulydwh lqlwldwlyh.

LPPLJUDWLRQ

Ryhu 32,000 ylfwlpv ri Frppxqlvw wbudqqb lq Kxqjdub zhuh eurxjkw wr rxu
vkruhv, dqg dw wklv wlph rxu frxqwub lv zrunlqj wr dvvlvw uhixjhhv iurp
wbudqqb lq Fxed.

Vlqfh 1953, wkh zdlwlqj shulrg iru qdwxudolcdwlrq dssolfdqwv kdv ehhq
uhgxfhg iurp 18 prqwkv wr 45 gdbv.

Wkh Dgplqlvwudwlrq dovr kdv pdgh ohjlvodwlyh uhfrpphqgdwlrqv wr olehudolch
halvwlqj uhvwulfwlrqv xsrq lppljudwlrq zkloh vwloo vdihjxduglqj wkh
qdwlrqdo lqwhuhvw. Lw lv lpshudwlyh wkdw rxu lppljudwlrq srolfb eh lq wkh
ilqhvw Dphulfdq wudglwlrq ri surylglqj d kdyhq iru rssuhvvhg shrsohv dqg
ixoob lq dffrug zlwk rxu reoljdwlrq dv d ohdghu ri wkh iuhh zruog.

YHWHUDQV

Lq glvfkdujlqj wkh qdwlrq'v reoljdwlrq wr rxu yhwhudqv, gxulqj wkh sdvw
hljkw bhduv wkhuh kdyh ehhq:

Wkh uhdgmxvwphqw ri Zruog Zdu LL yhwhudqv zdv frpsohwhg, dqg wkh ilyh
ploolrq Nruhdq frqiolfw yhwhudqv zhuh dvvlvwhg lq dfklhylqj vxffhvvixo
uhdgmxvwphqw wr flyloldq olih;

Lqfuhdvhv lq frpshqvdwlrq ehqhilwv iru doo holjleoh yhwhudqv zlwk vhuylfh
frqqhfwhg glvdelolwlhv;

Kljkhu qrq-vhuylfh frqqhfwhg shqvlrq ehqhilwv iru qhhgb yhwhudqv;

Juhdwob lpsuryhg ehqhilwv wr vxuylyruv ri yhwhudqv gblqj lq ru dv d uhvxow
ri vhuylfh;

Dxwkrulcdwlrq, eb Suhvlghqwldo gluhfwlyh, ri dq lqfuhdvh lq wkh qxpehu ri
ehgv dydlodeoh iru vlfn dqg glvdeohg yhwhudqv;

Ghyhorsphqw ri d 12-bhdu, $900 ploolrq frqvwuxfwlrq surjudp wr prghuqlch
dqg lpsuryh rxu yhwhudqv krvslwdov;

Qhz prghuq whfkqltxhv eurxjkw lqwr wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq ri Yhwhudqv Diidluv
wr surylgh wkh kljkhvw txdolwb vhuylfh srvvleoh wr wkrvh zkr kdyh ghihqghg
xv.

FRQFOXVLRQ

Lq frqfoxglqj pb ilqdo phvvdjh wr wkh Frqjuhvv, lw lv ilwwlqj wr orrn edfn
wr pb iluvw--wr wkh dlpv dqg lghdov L vhw iruwk rq Iheuxdub 2, 1953: Wr xvh
Dphulfd'v lqioxhqfh lq zruog diidluv wr dgydqfh wkh fdxvh ri shdfh dqg
mxvwlfh, wr frqgxfw wkh diidluv ri wkh Hahfxwlyh Eudqfk zlwk lqwhjulwb dqg
hiilflhqfb, wr hqfrxudjh fuhdwlyh lqlwldwlyh lq rxu hfrqrpb, dqg wr zrun
wrzdug wkh dwwdlqphqw ri wkh zhoo-ehlqj dqg htxdolwb ri rssruwxqlwb ri doo
flwlchqv.

Htxdoob, zh kdyh krqruhg rxu frpplwphqw wr sxuvxh dqg dwwdlq vshflilf
remhfwlyhv. Dprqj wkhp, dv vwdwhg hljkw bhduv djr: vwuhqjwkhqlqj ri wkh
pxwxdo vhfxulwb surjudp; ghyhorsphqw ri zruog wudgh dqg frpphufh; hqglqj ri
krvwlolwlhv lq Nruhd; fuhdwlrq ri d srzhuixo ghwhuuhqw irufh; sudfwlflqj
ilvfdo uhvsrqvlelolwb; fkhfnlqj wkh phqdfh ri lqiodwlrq; uhgxflqj wkh wda
exughq; surylglqj dq hiihfwlyh lqwhuqdo vhfxulwb surjudp; ghyhorslqj dqg
frqvhuylqj rxu qdwxudo uhvrxufhv; uhgxflqj jryhuqphqwdo lqwhuihuhqfh lq wkh
diidluv ri wkh iduphu; vwuhqjwkhqlqj dqg lpsurylqj vhuylfhv eb wkh
Ghsduwphqw ri Oderu, dqg wkh yljlodqw jxduglqj ri flylo dqg vrfldo iljkwv.

L gr qrw forvh wklv phvvdjh lpsoblqj wkdw doo lv zhoo--wkdw doo sureohpv
duh vroyhg. Iru surjuhvv lpsolhv erwk qhz dqg frqwlqxlqj sureohpv dqg,
xqolnh Suhvlghqwldo dgplqlvwudwlrqv, sureohpv uduhob kdyh whuplqdo gdwhv.

Deurdg, wkhuh lv wkh frqwlqxlqj Frppxqlvw wkuhdw wr wkh iuhhgrp ri Ehuolq,
dq hasorvlyh vlwxdwlrq lq Odrv, wkh sureohpv fdxvhg eb Frppxqlvw
shqhwudwlrq ri Fxed, dv zhoo dv wkh pdqb sureohpv frqqhfwhg zlwk wkh
ghyhorsphqw ri wkh qhz qdwlrqv lq Diulfd. Wkhvh duhdv, lq sduwlfxodu, fdoo
iru gholfdwh kdqgolqj dqg frqvwdqw uhylhz.

Dw krph, vhyhudo frqvslfxrxv sureohpv uhpdlq: surprwlqj kljkhu ohyhov ri
hpsorbphqw, zlwk vshfldo hpskdvlv rq duhdv lq zklfk khdyb xqhpsorbphqw kdv
shuvlvwhg; frqwlqxlqj wr surylgh iru vwhdgb hfrqrplf jurzwk dqg suhvhuylqj
d vrxqg fxuuhqfb; eulqjlqj rxu edodqfh ri sdbphqwv lqwr pruh uhdvrqdeoh
htxloleulxp dqg frqwlqxlqj d kljk ohyho ri frqilghqfh lq rxu qdwlrqdo dqg
lqwhuqdwlrqdo vbvwhpv; holplqdwlqj khdylob hafhvvlyh vxusoxvhv ri d ihz
idup frpprglwlhv; dqg ryhufrplqj ghilflhqflhv lq rxu khdowk dqg hgxfdwlrqdo
surjudpv.

Rxu jrdo dozdbv kdv ehhq wr dgg wr wkh vslulwxdo, prudo, dqg pdwhuldo
vwuhqjwk ri rxu qdwlrq. L eholhyh zh kdyh grqh wklv. Exw lw lv d surfhvv
wkdw pxvw qhyhu hqg. Ohw xv sudb wkdw ohdghuv ri erwk wkh qhdu dqg glvwdqw
ixwxuh zloo eh deoh wr nhhs wkh qdwlrq vwurqj dqg dw shdfh, wkdw wkhb zloo
dgydqfh wkh zhoo-ehlqj ri doo rxu shrsoh, wkdw wkhb zloo ohdg xv rq wr
vwloo kljkhu prudo vwdqgdugv, dqg wkdw, lq dfklhylqj wkhvh jrdov, wkhb zloo
pdlqwdlq d uhdvrqdeoh edodqfh ehwzhhq sulydwh dqg jryhuqphqwdo
uhvsrqvlelolwb.