Kf kyv Tfexivjj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj:

Kyv fgvezex fw kyzj evn pvri dljk rifljv ze lj rcc xirkvwlc kyrebj kf r
bzeu Gifmzuvetv nyfjv gifkvtkzfe yrj svve vmvi givjvek reu nyfjv sflekp yrj
svve drezwfcu reu rsleurek. Kyv Jkrkv fw kyv Lezfe kfurp uvdfejkirkvj nyrk
tre sv rttfdgczjyvu leuvi Xfu sp r wivv gvfgcv; sp kyvzi mzjzfe, kyvzi
leuvijkreuzex fw erkzferc gifscvdj, kyvzi zezkzrkzmv, kyvzi jvcw-ivczretv,
kyvzi trgrtzkp wfi nfib--reu sp kyvzi nzcczexevjj kf jrtizwztv nyvevmvi
jrtizwztv zj evvuvu.

Ze kyv grjk kyivv pvrij, ivjgfeuzex kf nyrk fli gvfgcv nrek kyvzi
Xfmviedvek kf uf, kyv Tfexivjj reu kyv Vovtlkzmv yrmv ufev dlty ze slzcuzex
r jkifexvi, svkkvi Rdviztr. Kyviv yrj svve sifru gifxivjj ze wfjkvizex kyv
vevixzvj fw fli gvfgcv, ze gifmzuzex xivrkvi fggfiklezkp wfi kyv
jrkzjwrtkzfe fw kyvzi evvuj, reu ze wlcwzcczex kyvzi uvdreuj wfi kyv
jkivexky reu jvtlizkp fw kyv Ivglsczt.

Fli tflekip zj rk gvrtv. Fli jvtlizkp gfjkliv tfddreuj ivjgvtk. R jgzizklrc
mzxfi dribj fli erkzferc czwv. Fli vtfefdp, rggifrtyzex kyv 400 szcczfe
ufccri drib, zj rk re legrirccvcvu cvmvc fw gifjgvizkp. Kyv erkzferc zetfdv
zj dfiv nzuvcp reu wrzicp uzjkizslkvu kyre vmvi svwfiv. Kyv eldsvi fw
Rdviztrej rk nfib yrj ivrtyvu re rcc-kzdv yzxy. Rj r gvfgcv, nv riv
rtyzvmzex vmvi yzxyvi jkreuriuj fw czmzex--vriezex dfiv, gifultzex dfiv,
tfejldzex dfiv, slzcuzex dfiv reu zemvjkzex dfiv kyre vmvi svwfiv.

Mziklrccp rcc jvtkfij fw fli jftzvkp riv jyrizex ze kyvjv xffu kzdvj. Fli
wrid wrdzczvj, zw nv rtk nzjvcp, zdrxzerkzmvcp reu gifdgkcp kf jkivexkyve
fli givjvek wrid gifxirdj, tre rcjf cffb wfinriu kf jyrizex vhlzkrscp ze
kyv gifjgvizkp kyvp yrmv yvcgvu kf tivrkv.

Nri ze Bfivr veuvu knf reu r yrcw pvrij rxf. Kyv tfccvtkzmv jvtlizkp jpjkvd
yrj svve gfnviwlccp jkivexkyvevu. Fli uvwvejvj yrmv svve ivzewfitvu rk
jyrigcp ivultvu tfjkj. Gifxirdj kf vogreu nficu kiruv reu kf yrievjj kyv
rkfd wfi kyv svkkvidvek fw drebzeu yrmv svve triizvu wfinriu. Fli vtfefdp
yrj svve wivvu wifd xfmviedvekrc nrxv reu giztv tfekifcj. Zewcrkzfe yrj
svve yrckvu; kyv tfjk fw czmzex jkrszczqvu.

Xfmviedvek jgveuzex yrj svve tlk sp dfiv kyre kve szcczfe ufccrij. Evricp
kyivv yleuivu kyfljreu gfjzkzfej yrmv svve vczdzerkvu wifd kyv Wvuvirc
grpifcc. Krovj yrmv svve jlsjkrekzrccp ivultvu. R srcretvu sluxvk zj ze
gifjgvtk. Jftzrc jvtlizkp yrj svve vokveuvu kf kve dzcczfe dfiv Rdviztrej
reu levdgcfpdvek zejliretv kf wfli dzcczfe dfiv. Legivtvuvekvu rumretvj ze
tzmzc izxykj yrmv svve druv. Kyv cfex-jkreuzex reu uvvg-jvrkvu gifscvdj fw
rxiztlckliv yrmv svve wfikyizxykcp rkkrtbvu.

Kyzj ivtfiu fw gifxivjj yrj svve rttfdgczjyvu nzky r jvcw zdgfjvu trlkzfe
rxrzejk leevtvjjrip reu lenzjv zekviwvivetv ze kyv gizmrkv rwwrzij fw fli
gvfgcv, fw kyvzi tfddlezkzvj reu fw kyv jvmvirc Jkrkvj.

Zw nv fw kyv Vovtlkzmv reu Cvxzjcrkzmv Siretyvj, bvvgzex kyzj trlkzfe vmvi
ze dzeu, ruuivjj flijvcmvj kf kyv sljzevjj fw kyv pvri svwfiv lj--reu kf
kyv lewzezjyvu sljzevjj fw crjk pvri--nzky ivjfclkzfe, kyv flkcffb zj
sizxyk nzky gifdzjv.

Drep dvrjlivj fw xivrk erkzferc zdgfikretv ivtfddveuvu crjk pvri kf kyv
Tfexivjj jkzcc uvdreu zddvuzrkv rkkvekzfe cvxzjcrkzfe wfi jtyffc reu
yzxynrp tfejkiltkzfe; yvrcky reu zddzxirkzfe cvxzjcrkzfe; nrkvi ivjflitvj
cvxzjcrkzfe; cvxzjcrkzfe kf tfdgcvkv kyv zdgcvdvekrkzfe fw fli wfivzxe
vtfefdzt gfcztp; jlty crsfi cvxzjcrkzfe rj rdveudvekj fw kyv
Crsfi-Drerxvdvek Ivcrkzfej Rtk, vokvejzfe fw kyv Wrzi Crsfi Jkreuriuj Rtk
kf ruuzkzferc xiflgj efk efn tfmvivu, reu fttlgrkzferc jrwvkp cvxzjcrkzfe;
reu cvxzjcrkzfe wfi tfejkiltkzfe fw re rkfdzt-gfnvivu voyzszk mvjjvc.

Drep evn zkvdj fw sljzevjj czbvnzjv ivhlziv fli rkkvekzfe-dvrjlivj kyrk
nzcc wlikyvi gifdfkv kyv ivcvrjv fw kyv vevixzvj fw fli gvfgcv; kyrk nzcc
sifruve fggfiklezkp wfi rcc fw kyvd; kyrk nzcc rumretv kyv Ivglsczt ze zkj
cvruvijyzg kfnriu r aljk gvrtv; dvrjlivj, ze jyfik, kyrk riv vjjvekzrc kf
kyv slzcuzex fw re vmvijkifexvi, vmvi-svkkvi Rdviztr.

Vmvip gfczkztrc reu vtfefdzt xlzuv jlggfikj r mrczu tfewzuvetv kyrk nzjv
vwwfik nzcc sv ivnriuvu sp re vmve dfiv gcvekzwlc yrimvjk fw yldre svevwzk
kyre nv efn veafp. Fli ivjflitvj riv kff drep, fli gizetzgcvj kff uperdzt,
fli gligfjvj kff nfikyp reu kyv zjjlvj rk jkrbv kff zddvejv wfi lj kf
vekvikrze uflsk fi wvri. Slk fli ivjgfejzszczkzvj ivhlziv kyrk nv rggifrty
kyzj pvri'j sljzevjj nzky r jfsvi yldzczkp.

R yvvucvjj gizuv ze fli givjvek jkivexky reu gfjzkzfe nflcu sczeu lj kf kyv
wrtkj fw kyv grjk, kf kyv gzkwrccj fw kyv wlkliv. Nv dljk nrcb vmvi ze kyv
befncvuxv kyrk nv riv veiztyvu sp r yvizkrxv vrievu ze kyv crsfi reu
jrtizwztv fw fli wfivsvrij; kyrk, wfi fli tyzcuive'j tyzcuive, nv riv
kiljkvvj fw r xivrk Ivglsczt reu r kzdv-kvjkvu gfczkztrc jpjkvd; kyrk nv
gifjgvi rj r tffgvirkzex dvdsvi fw kyv wrdzcp fw erkzfej.

Ze kyzj czxyk kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe yrj tfekzelvu nfib fe zkj gifxird wfi kyv
Ivglsczt, svxle kyivv pvrij rxf. Svtrljv kyv mrjk jgivru fw erkzferc reu
yldre zekvivjkj zj zemfcmvu nzkyze zk, Z jyrcc efk ze kyzj Dvjjrxv rkkvdgk
zkj uvkrzcvu uvczevrkzfe. Zejkvru, wifd kzdv kf kzdv ulizex kyzj Jvjjzfe,
kyviv nzcc sv jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Tfexivjj jgvtzwzt ivtfddveurkzfej nzkyze
jgvtzwzt wzvcuj. Ze kyv tfdgivyvejzmv jlimvp ivhlzivu wfi kyvzi
givgrirkzfe, kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe zj xlzuvu sp veulizex fsavtkzmvj. Kyv wzijk
zj:

KYV UZJTYRIXV FW FLI NFICU IVJGFEJZSZCZKP

Fli nficu gfcztp reu fli rtkzfej riv uvuztrkvu kf kyv rtyzvmvdvek fw gvrtv
nzky aljkztv wfi rcc erkzfej.

Nzky kyzj gligfjv, nv dfmv ze r nzuv mrizvkp fw nrpj reu kyiflxy drep
rxvetzvj kf ivdfmv kyv grcc fw wvri; kf jkivexkyve kyv kzvj nzky fli
grikevij reu kf zdgifmv kyv tffgvirkzmv tfyvjzfe fw kyv wivv nficu; kf
ivultv kyv sliuve fw ridrdvekj, reu kf jkzdlcrkv reu zejgziv rtkzfe rdfex
rcc erkzfej wfi r nficu fw aljkztv reu gifjgvizkp reu gvrtv. Kyvjv erkzferc
fsavtkzmvj riv wlccp jlggfikvu sp sfky fli gfczkztrc grikzvj.

Ze kyv grjk pvri, fli jvrity wfi r dfiv jkrscv reu aljk gvrtv yrj krbve
mrizvu wfidj. Rdfex kyv dfjk zdgfikrek nviv kyv knf Tfewvivetvj rk Xvevmr,
ze Alcp reu ze kyv wrcc fw crjk pvri. Nv vogcfivu kyv gfjjzszczkzvj fw
rxivvdvek fe tizkztrc zjjlvj kyrk avfgriuzqv kyv gvrtv.

Kyv Alcp dvvkzex fw Yvruj fw Xfmviedvek yvcu flk gifdzjv kf kyv nficu fw
dfuvirkzfe ze kyv szkkvievjj, fw nfiu reu rtkzfe, nyzty kveuj kf xvevirkv
tfewcztk reu nri. Rcc nviv ze rxivvdvek kyrk r eltcvri nri nflcu sv re
zekfcvirscv uzjrjkvi nyzty dljk efk sv gvidzkkvu kf fttli. Slk ze Ftkfsvi,
nyve kyv Wfivzxe Dzezjkvij dvk rxrze, kyv ivjlckj uvdfejkirkvu tfetcljzmvcp
kyrk kyv Jfmzvk cvruvij riv efk pvk nzcczex kf tivrkv kyv zeuzjgvejrscv
tfeuzkzfej wfi r jvtliv reu crjkzex gvrtv.

Evmvikyvcvjj, zk zj tcvri kyrk kyv tfewcztk svknvve zekvierkzferc tfddlezjd
reu wivvufd yrj krbve fe r evn tfdgcvozfe.

Nv befn kyv Tfddlezjk cvruvij yrmv fwkve girtkztvu kyv krtkztj fw ivkivrk
reu qzxqrx. Nv befn kyrk Jfmzvk reu Tyzevjv tfddlezjd jkzcc gfjvj r jvizflj
kyivrk kf kyv wivv nficu. Reu ze kyv Dzuucv Vrjk ivtvek Jfmzvk dfmvj riv
yriucp tfdgrkzscv nzky kyv ivultkzfe fw zekvierkzferc kvejzfe.

Pvk Tfddlezjk krtkztj rxrzejk kyv wivv erkzfej yrmv jyzwkvu ze vdgyrjzj
wifd ivczretv fe mzfcvetv reu kyv kyivrk fw mzfcvetv kf ivczretv fe
uzmzjzfe, vekztvdvek reu ulgcztzkp. Nv dljk sv nvcc givgrivu kf dvvk kyv
tliivek krtkztj nyzty gfjv r urexviflj kyflxy cvjj fsmzflj kyivrk. Rk kyv
jrdv kzdv, fli gfcztp dljk sv uperdzt rj nvcc rj wcvozscv, uvjzxevu
gizdrizcp kf wfinriu kyv rtyzvmvdvek fw fli fne fsavtkzmvj irkyvi kyre kf
dvvk vrty jyzwk reu tyrexv fe kyv Tfddlezjk wifek. Nv dljk rtk ze kyv wzid
rjjliretv kyrk kyv wilzkj fw wivvufd riv dfiv rkkirtkzmv reu uvjzirscv kf
drebzeu ze kyv glijlzk fw yrggzevjj kyre kyv ivtfiu fw Tfddlezjd.

Ze kyv wrtv fw Tfddlezjk dzczkrip gfnvi, nv dljk, fw tflijv, tfekzelv kf
drzekrze re vwwvtkzmv jpjkvd fw tfccvtkzmv jvtlizkp. Kyzj zemfcmvj knf
kyzexj--r jpjkvd nyzty xzmvj tcvri nriezex kyrk ridvu rxxivjjzfe nzcc sv
dvk sp afzek rtkzfe fw kyv wivv erkzfej, reu uvkviivek dzczkrip gfnvi kf
drbv kyrk nriezex vwwvtkzmv. Dfivfmvi, kyv rnvjfdv gfnvi fw kyv rkfd dljk
sv druv kf jvimv rj r xlriuzre fw kyv wivv tfddlezkp reu fw kyv gvrtv.

Ze kyv crjk pvri, kyv wivv nficu yrj jvve drafi xrzej wfi kyv jpjkvd fw
tfccvtkzmv jvtlizkp: kyv rttvjjzfe kf kyv Efiky Rkcrekzt Kivrkp
Fixrezqrkzfe reu Nvjkvie Vlifgvre Lezfe fw kyv jfmvivzxe Wvuvirc Xvidre
Ivglsczt; kyv uvmvcfgzex tffgvirkzfe leuvi kyv Jflkyvrjk Rjzr Tfccvtkzmv
Uvwvejv Kivrkp; reu kyv wfidrkzfe ze kyv Dzuucv Vrjk fw kyv Srxyuru Grtk
rdfex Klibvp, Zirh, Zire, Grbzjkre reu kyv Lezkvu Bzexufd. Ze fli fne
yvdzjgyviv, kyv zekvi-Rdviztre jpjkvd yrj tfekzelvu kf jyfn zkj mzkrczkp ze
drzekrzezex gvrtv reu r tfddfe rggifrty kf nficu gifscvdj. Nv efn yrmv
jvtlizkp grtkj nzky dfiv kyre 40 fkyvi erkzfej.

Ze kyv glijlzk fw fli erkzferc gligfjvj, nv yrmv svve jkvruwrjk ze fli
jlggfik fw kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej, efn vekvizex zkj jvtfeu uvtruv nzky r nzuvi
dvdsvijyzg reu vmvi-zetivrjzex zewclvetv reu ljvwlcevjj. Ze kyv ivcvrjv fw
fli wzwkvve wczvij wifd Tfddlezjk Tyzer, re vjjvekzrc givcluv nrj kyv nficu
fgzezfe dfszczqvu sp kyv Xvevirc Rjjvdscp, nyzty tfeuvdevu kyvzi
zdgizjfedvek reu uvdreuvu kyvzi czsvirkzfe. Kyv jlttvjjwlc Rkfdzt Vevixp
Tfewvivetv yvcu ze Xvevmr leuvi Lezkvu Erkzfej rljgztvj reu fli Rkfdj wfi
Gvrtv gifxird yrmv svve girtkztrc jkvgj kfnriu kyv nficu-nzuv ljv fw kyzj
evn vevixp jflitv. Fli jgfejfijyzg fw jlty ljv yrj svevwzkvu fli ivcrkzfej
nzky fkyvi tflekizvj. Rtkzmv evxfkzrkzfej riv efn ze gifxivjj kf tivrkv re
Zekvierkzferc Rxvetp kf wfjkvi gvrtvwlc ljvj fw rkfdzt vevixp.

Ulizex kyv grjk pvri kyv tiltzrc gifscvd fw uzjridrdvek yrj dfmvu kf kyv
wfivwifek fw girtkztrc gfczkztrc veuvrmfi. Rk Xvevmr, Z uvtcrivu kyv
ivruzevjj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf votyrexv sclvgizekj fw kyv dzczkrip
vjkrsczjydvekj fw fli erkzfe reu kyv LJJI, kf sv tfewzidvu sp ivtzgiftrc
rvizrc ivtfeerzjjretv. Sp kyzj dvrej, Z wvck dlklrc jljgztzfej tflcu sv
rccrpvu reu re rkdfjgyviv uvmvcfgvu ze nyzty evxfkzrkzfej cffbzex kfnriu
czdzkrkzfe fw ridj nflcu yrmv zdgifmvu tyretvj fw jlttvjj.

Ze kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej Jlstfddzkkvv fe Uzjridrdvek crjk wrcc, kyzj gifgfjrc
nrj vogcfivu reu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rcjf uvtcrivu zkjvcw nzcczex kf zetcluv
ivtzgiftrc xifleu zejgvtkzfe fw bvp gfzekj. Sp kyv fmvinyvcdzex mfkv fw 56
kf 7, kyv Lezkvu Erkzfej fe Uvtvdsvi 16 veufijvu kyvjv gifgfjrcj reu xrmv
kyvd r kfg gizfizkp. Kyvivsp, kyv zjjlv zj gcrtvu jhlrivcp svwfiv kyv sri
fw nficu fgzezfe. Nv jyrcc gvijvmviv ze jvvbzex r xvevirc ivultkzfe fw
ridrdvekj leuvi vwwvtkzmv zejgvtkzfe reu tfekifc nyzty riv vjjvekzrc
jrwvxlriuj kf vejliv ivtzgiftzkp reu gifkvtk kyv jvtlizkp fw rcc.

Ze kyv tfdzex pvri dlty ivdrzej kf sv ufev.

Nyzcv drzekrzezex fli dzczkrip uvkviivek, nv dljk zekvejzwp fli vwwfikj kf
rtyzvmv r aljk gvrtv. Ze Rjzr nv jyrcc tfekzelv kf xzmv yvcg kf erkzfej
jkilxxczex kf drzekrze kyvzi wivvufd rxrzejk kyv kyivrk fw Tfddlezjk
tfvitzfe fi jlsmvijzfe. Ze Vlifgv nv jyrcc veuvrmfi kf zetivrjv efk fecp
kyv dzczkrip jkivexky fw kyv Efiky Rkcrekzt Rcczretv slk rcjf zkj gfczkztrc
tfyvjzfe reu lezkp fw gligfjv. Nv jyrcc xzmv jlty rjjzjkretv rj zj wvrjzscv
kf kyv ivtvekcp ivevnvu vwwfik fw Nvjkvie Vlifgvre erkzfej kf rtyzvmv r
xivrkvi dvrjliv fw zekvxirkzfe, jlty rj ze kyv wzvcu fw gvrtvwlc ljvj fw
rkfdzt vevixp.

Ze kyv Evri Vrjk nv jyrcc jgriv ef vwwfik ze jvvbzex kf gifdfkv r wrzi
jfclkzfe fw kyv kirxzt uzjglkv svknvve kyv Rirs Jkrkvj reu Zjirvc, rcc fw
nyfd nv nrek rj fli wizveuj. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zj ivrup kf uf zkj grik kf
rjjliv veulizex gvrtv ze kyrk rivr. Nv yfgv kyrk sfky jzuvj nzcc drbv kyv
tfekizslkzfej evtvjjrip kf rtyzvmv kyrk gligfjv. Ze Crkze Rdviztr, nv jyrcc
tfekzelv kf tffgvirkv mzxfifljcp ze kiruv reu fkyvi dvrjlivj uvjzxevu kf
rjjzjk vtfefdzt gifxivjj ze kyv rivr.

Jkifex vtfefdzt kzvj riv re vjjvekzrc vcvdvek ze fli wivv nficu
grikevijyzg. Zetivrjzex kiruv reu zemvjkdvek yvcg rcc fw lj gifjgvi
kfxvkyvi. Xirkzwpzex gifxivjj yrj svve druv ze kyzj uzivtkzfe, dfjk
ivtvekcp sp kyv kyivv-pvri vokvejzfe fw fli kiruv rxivvdvekj cvxzjcrkzfe.

Z dfjk vrievjkcp ivhlvjk kyrk kyv Tfexivjj rggifmv fli dvdsvijyzg ze kyv
Fixrezqrkzfe wfi Kiruv Tffgvirkzfe, nyzty nflcu rjjzjk kyv triipzex flk fw
kyv Xvevirc Rxivvdvek fe Krizwwj reu Kiruv kf nyzty nv yrmv svve r grikp
jzetv 1948. Fli dvdsvijyzg ze kyv FKT nzcc gifmzuv kyv dfjk vwwvtkzmv reu
vogvuzkzflj dvrej wfi ivdfmzex uzjtizdzerkzfej reu ivjkiztkzfej rxrzejk
Rdviztre vogfikj reu ze drbzex fli kiruv rxivvdvekj kilcp ivtzgiftrc.
Lezkvu Jkrkvj dvdsvijyzg ze kyv Fixrezqrkzfe nzcc vmzuvetv fli tfekzelzex
uvjziv kf tffgvirkv ze gifdfkzex re vogreuvu kiruv rdfex kyv wivv erkzfej.
Kylj kyv Fixrezqrkzfe, rj gifgfjvu, zj rudzirscp jlzkvu kf fli fne
zekvivjkj reu kf kyfjv fw czbv-dzeuvu erkzfej ze nfibzex wfi jkvrup
vogrejzfe fw kiruv reu tcfjvi vtfefdzt tffgvirkzfe. Svzex jkiztkcp re
rudzezjkirkzmv vekzkp, kyv Fixrezqrkzfe wfi Kiruv Tffgvirkzfe treefk, fw
tflijv, rckvi kyv tfekifc sp Tfexivjj fw kyv krizww, zdgfik, reu tljkfdj
gfcztzvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.

Nv evvu kf vetflirxv zemvjkdvek fmvijvrj sp rmfzuzex lewrzi kro
ulgcztrkzfej, reu kf wfjkvi wfivzxe kiruv sp wlikyvi jzdgczwztrkzfe reu
zdgifmvdvek fw fli tljkfdj cvxzjcrkzfe.

Nv dljk jljkrze reu wfikzwp fli Dlklrc Jvtlizkp Gifxird. Svtrljv kyv
tfeuzkzfej fw gfmvikp reu leivjk ze cvjj uvmvcfgvu rivrj drbv kyvzi gvfgcv
r jgvtzrc krixvk fw zekvierkzferc tfddlezjd, kyviv zj r evvu kf yvcg kyvd
rtyzvmv kyv vtfefdzt xifnky reu jkrszczkp evtvjjrip kf givjvimv kyvzi
zeuvgveuvetv rxrzejk tfddlezjk kyivrkj reu vekztvdvekj.

Ze fiuvi kyrk fli wizveuj drp svkkvi rtyzvmv kyv xivrkvi jkivexky kyrk zj
fli tfddfe xfrc, kyvp evvu rjjliretv fw tfekzelzkp ze vtfefdzt rjjzjkretv
wfi uvmvcfgdvek gifavtkj reu gifxirdj nyzty nv rggifmv reu nyzty ivhlziv r
gvizfu fw pvrij wfi gcreezex reu tfdgcvkzfe. Rttfiuzexcp, Z rjb Tfexivjj kf
xirek czdzkvu rlkyfizkp kf drbv cfexvi-kvid tfddzkdvekj wfi rjjzjkretv kf
jlty gifavtkj, kf sv wlcwzccvu wifd rggifgizrkzfej kf sv druv ze wlkliv
wzjtrc pvrij.

Kyvjv mrizflj jkvgj nzcc gfnviwlccp jkivexkyve kyv vtfefdzt wfleurkzfe fw
fli wfivzxe gfcztp. Kfxvkyvi nzky tfejkiltkzmv rtkzfe rsifru, kyvp nzcc
drzekrze kyv givjvek dfdvekld kfnriu xvevirc vtfefdzt gifxivjj reu mzkrczkp
fw kyv wivv nficu.

Ze rcc kyzexj, tyrexv zj kyv zevofirscv crn fw czwv. Ze dlty fw kyv nficu
kyv wvidvek fw tyrexv zj nfibzex jkifexcp; slk xirmv zealjkztvj riv jkzcc
letfiivtkvu. Nv dljk efk, sp rep jretkzfe fw flij, yvcg kf gvigvklrkv kyvjv
nifexj. Z yrmv grikztlcricp ze dzeu kyv fggivjjzmv uzmzjzfe fw kyv Xvidre
gvfgcv, kyv sfeurxv fw dzcczfej vcjvnyviv, reu kyv votcljzfe fw Argre wifd
Lezkvu Erkzfej dvdsvijyzg.

Nv jyrcc bvvg kyvjv zealjkztvj ze kyv wfivwifek fw yldre tfejtzfljevjj reu
jvvb kf drzekrze kyv givjjliv fw nficu fgzezfe kf wzxyk kyvjv mrjk nifexj
ze kyv zekvivjk sfky fw aljkztv reu jvtliv gvrtv.

Zealjkztv kyizmvj fe zxefiretv. Svtrljv re leuvijkreuzex fw kyv kilky rsflk
Rdviztr zj fev fw fli dfjk gfnviwlc wfitvj, Z rd ivtfddveuzex r jlsjkrekzrc
zetivrjv ze sluxvkrip jlggfik fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Zewfidrkzfe Rxvetp.

Kyv jld fw fli zekvierkzferc vwwfik jyflcu sv kyzj: kyv nrxzex fw gvrtv,
nzky rj dlty ivjflitvwlcevjj, nzky rj xivrk r jvejv fw uvuztrkzfe reu
lixvetp, rj nv yrmv vmvi dljkvivu ze uvwvejv fw fli tflekip ze kzdv fw nri.
Ze kyzj vwwfik, fli nvrgfe zj efk wfitv. Fli nvrgfej riv kyv gizetzgcvj reu
zuvrj vdsfuzvu ze fli yzjkfizt kiruzkzfej, rggczvu nzky kyv jrdv mzxfi kyrk
ze kyv grjk druv Rdviztr r czmzex gifdzjv fw wivvufd wfi rcc drebzeu.

Kf rttfdgczjy kyvjv mzkrc krjbj, rcc fw lj jyflcu sv tfetvievu nzky kyv
jkivexky, vwwvtkzmvevjj reu dfircv .fw fli Jkrkv Uvgrikdvek reu fli Wfivzxe
Jvimztv.

Refkyvi xlzuv ze kyv givgrirkzfe fw kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe'j gifxird zj:

KYV TFEJKREK ZDGIFMVDVEK FW FLI ERKZFERC JVTLIZKP

Svtrljv gvrtv zj kyv bvpjkfev fw fli erkzferc gfcztp, fli uvwvejv gifxird
vdgyrjzqvj re vwwvtkzmv wcvozscv kpgv fw gfnvi trctlcrkvu kf uvkvi fi
ivglcjv rep rxxivjjzfe reu kf givjvimv kyv gvrtv. Jyfik fw nri, nv yrmv
evmvi yru dzczkrip jkivexky svkkvi rurgkvu kf fli evvuj nzky zdgifmvu
ivruzevjj wfi vdvixvetp ljv. Kyv drzekveretv fw kyzj jkifex dzczkrip
trgrszczkp wfi kyv zeuvwzezkv wlkliv nzcc tfekzelv kf trcc wfi r crixv
jyriv fw fli erkzferc sluxvk. Fli dzczkrip gifxirdj dljk dvvk kyv evvuj fw
kfurp. Kf slzcu cvjj nflcu vogfjv kyv erkzfe kf rxxivjjzfe. Kf slzcu
votvjjzmvcp, leuvi kyv zewclvetv fw wvri, tflcu uvwvrk fli gligfjvj reu
zdgrzi fi uvjkifp kyv mvip wivvufd reu vtfefdzt jpjkvd fli dzczkrip
uvwvejvj riv uvjzxevu kf gifkvtk.

Nv yrmv zdgifmvu kyv vwwvtkzmvevjj reu tfdsrk ivruzevjj fw fli wfitvj sp
uvmvcfgzex reu drbzex fgvirkzferc evn nvrgfej reu sp zekvxirkzex kyv crkvjk
jtzvekzwzt uvmvcfgdvekj, zetcluzex evn rkfdzt nvrgfej, zekf fli dzczkrip
gcrej. Nv tfekzelv kf gljy kyv gifultkzfe fw kyv dfjk dfuvie dzczkrip
rzitirwk. Kyv uvmvcfgdvek fw cfex-irexv dzjjzcvj yrj svve fe re rttvcvirkvu
srjzj wfi jfdv kzdv. Nv riv dfmzex rj irgzucp rj girtkztrscv kfnriu
eltcvri-gfnvivu rzitirwk reu jyzgj. Tfdsrk trgrszczkp, vjgvtzrccp ze kvidj
fw wzivgfnvi, yrj svve jlsjkrekzrccp zetivrjvu. Nv yrmv druv kyv
rualjkdvekj ze gvijfeevc gvidzkkvu sp kyv tvjjrkzfe fw kyv Bfivre Nri, kyv
slzculg fw fli rcczvj reu kyv zekifultkzfe fw evn nvrgfej. Kyv jvimztvj riv
rcc gcreezex ivrczjkztrccp fe r cfex-kvid srjzj.

Kf jkivexkyve fli tfekzevekrc uvwvejvj kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu Trerur, ze kyv
tcfjvjk tffgvirkzfe, yrmv jlsjkrekzrccp rlxdvekvu vricp nriezex evknfibj.
Xivrk gifxivjj zj svzex druv ze vokveuzex jlimvzccretv fw kyv Ritkzt, kyv
Rkcrekzt reu kyv Grtzwzt rggifrtyvj kf Efiky Rdviztr.

Ze kyv crjk rercpjzj fli ivrc jkivexky czvj ze kyv trczsvi fw kyv dve reu
nfdve ze fli Ridvu Wfitvj, rtkzmv reu Ivjvimv. Dlty yrj svve ufev kf
rkkirtk reu yfcu trgrscv dzczkrip gvijfeevc, slk dfiv evvuj kf sv ufev.
Kyzj pvri, Z ivevn dp ivhlvjk fw crjk pvri wfi cvxzjcrkzfe kf gifmzuv
gifgvi dvuztrc triv wfi dzczkrip uvgveuvekj reu r dfiv vhlzkrscv jlimzmfij'
svevwzk gifxird. Kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc givgriv ruuzkzferc ivtfddveurkzfej
uvjzxevu kf rtyzvmv kyv jrdv fsavtkzmvj, zetcluzex trivvi zetvekzmvj wfi
dvuztrc reu uvekrc fwwztvij reu elijvj, reu zetivrjvj ze kyv gifgfikzfe fw
ivxlcri fwwztvij.

Tcfjvcp ivcrkvu kf kyv dzjjzfe fw kyv Uvwvejv Uvgrikdvek zj kyv krjb fw kyv
Wvuvirc Tzmzc Uvwvejv Rudzezjkirkzfe. R grikztlcri gfzek fw ivcrkzfejyzg
rizjvj wifd kyv wrtk kyrk kyv bvp kf tzmzc uvwvejv zj kyv vogreuvu
tfekzevekrc uvwvejv gifxird, zetcluzex kyv uzjkrek vricp nriezex jpjkvd.
Fli Wvuvirc tzmzc uvwvejv rlkyfizkzvj yrmv druv gifxivjj ze kyvzi gifxird,
reu efn tfdgivyvejzmv jkluzvj riv svzex tfeultkvu afzekcp sp kyv Wvuvirc
Tzmzc Uvwvejv Rudzezjkirkzfe, kyv Jkrkvj, reu tizkztrc krixvk tzkzvj kf
uvkvidzev kyv svjk giftvulivj kyrk tre sv rufgkvu ze trjv fw re rkfdzt
rkkrtb. Nv dljk jkivexkyve Wvuvirc rjjzjkretv kf kyv Jkrkvj reu tzkzvj ze
uvmzjzex kyv dfjk vwwvtkzmv tfddfe uvwvejv.

Nv yrmv r sifru reu uzmvijzwzvu dfszczqrkzfe srjv. Nv yrmv kyv wrtzczkzvj,
drkvizrcj, jbzccj reu befncvuxv irgzucp kf vogreu kyv gifultkzfe fw kyzexj
nv evvu wfi fli uvwvejv nyvevmvi kyvp riv ivhlzivu. Slk dfszczqrkzfe srjv
ivhlzivdvekj tyrexv nzky tyrexzex kvtyefcfxp reu jkirkvxp. Nv dljk drzekrze
wcvozszczkp kf dvvk evn ivhlzivdvekj. Z rd ivhlvjkzex, kyvivwfiv, kyrk kyv
Tfexivjj fetv rxrze vokveu kyv Uvwvejv Gifultkzfe Rtk.

Fw xivrk zdgfikretv kf fli erkzfe'j jvtlizkp zj r tfekzelzex rcvikevjj kf
zekvierc jlsmvijzmv rtkzmzkp nzkyze fi nzkyflk fli xfmviedvek. Kyzj
Rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc efk ivcro zkj vwwfikj kf uvrc wfikyizxykcp reu
mzxfifljcp ze gifkvtkzfe fw kyzj xfmviedvek reu zkj tzkzqvej rxrzejk
jlsmvijzfe, rk kyv jrdv kzdv wlccp gifkvtkzex kyv tfejkzklkzferc izxykj fw
rcc tzkzqvej.

R kyziu fsavtkzmv fw kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe zj:

WZJTRC ZEKVXIZKP

R glsczt fwwztv zj, zeuvvu, r glsczt kiljk. Efev fw zkj rjgvtkj zj dfiv
uvdreuzex kyre kyv gifgvi drerxvdvek fw kyv glsczt wzeretvj. Z ivwvi efn
efk fecp kf kyv zeuzjgvejrscv mziklvj fw gcrze yfevjkp reu kiljknfikyzevjj
slk rcjf kf kyv giluvek, vwwvtkzmv reu tfejtzvekzflj ljv fw kro dfevp. Z
ivwvi rcjf kf kyv rkkzkluv fw dzeu kyrk drbvj vwwztzvek reu vtfefdztrc
jvimztv kf kyv gvfgcv r nrktynfiu ze fli xfmviedvek.

Fmvi kyv cfex kvid, r srcretvu sluxvk zj r jliv zeuvo kf kyizwkp
drerxvdvek--ze r yfdv, ze r sljzevjj fi ze kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek. Nyve
rtyzvmvdvek fw r srcretvu sluxvk zj wfi cfex glk fww ze r sljzevjj fi yfdv,
srebilgktp zj kyv ivjlck. Slk ze jzdzcri tzitldjkretvj r xfmviedvek ivjfikj
kf zewcrkzfe fw kyv dfevp jlggcp. Kyzj zevmzkrscp ivjlckj ze uvgivtzrkzfe
fw kyv mrclv fw kyv dfevp, reu re zetivrjv ze kyv tfjk fw czmzex. Vmvip
zemvjkdvek ze gvijferc jvtlizkp zj kyivrkvevu sp kyzj giftvjj fw zewcrkzfe,
reu kyv ivrc mrclvj fw kyv gvfgcv'j jrmzexj, nyvkyvi ze kyv wfid fw
zejliretv, sfeuj, gvejzfe reu ivkzivdvek wleuj fi jrmzexj rttflekj riv
kyvivsp jyizmvcvu.

Nv yrmv druv cfex jkizuvj kyvjv grjk kyivv pvrij ze sizexzex fli Wvuvirc
wzeretvj leuvi tfekifc. Kyv uvwztzk wfi wzjtrc pvri 1953 nrj rcdfjk 9-1/2
szcczfe ufccrij. Crixvi uvwztzkj jvvdvu tvikrze--uvwztzkj nyzty nflcu yrmv
uvgivtzrkvu kyv mrclv fw kyv ufccri reu gljyvu kyv tfjk fw czmzex jkzcc
yzxyvi. Slk xfmviedvek nrjkv reu vokirmrxretv nviv jvrityvu flk.
Efevjjvekzrc rtkzmzkzvj nviv uifggvu. Xfmviedvek vogvejvj nviv trivwlccp
jtilkzezqvu. Kfkrc jgveuzex nrj tlk sp 14 szcczfe ufccrij svcfn kyv rdflek
gcreevu sp kyv givmzflj Rudzezjkirkzfe wfi kyv wzjtrc pvri 1954.

Kyzj druv gfjjzscv--reu zk nrj rggifgizrkv ze kyv vozjkzex tzitldjkretvj fw
kirejzkzfe kf r gvrtvkzdv vtfefdp--kyv crixvjk kro tlk ze rep pvri ze fli
yzjkfip. Rcdfjk 7-1/2 szcczfe ufccrij nviv ivcvrjvu reu vmvip krogrpvi ze
kyv tflekip svevwzkvu. Rcdfjk knf-kyziuj fw kyv jrmzexj nvek uzivtkcp kf
zeuzmzulrcj. Kyzj kro tlk rcjf yvcgvu kf slzcu lg kyv vtfefdp, kf drbv afsj
ze zeuljkip reu kf zetivrjv kyv gifultkzfe .fw kyv drep kyzexj uvjzivu kf
zdgifmv kyv jtrcv fw czmzex wfi kyv xivrk drafizkp fw Rdviztrej.

Kyv jkifex vogrejzfe fw kyv vtfefdp, tflgcvu nzky r tfejkrek triv wfi
vwwztzvetp ze xfmviedvek fgvirkzfej reu re rcvik xlriu rxrzejk nrjkv reu
ulgcztrkzfe, yrj siflxyk lj kf r gifjgvtkzmv srcretv svknvve zetfdv reu
vogveuzkliv. Kyzj zj svzex ufev nyzcv nv tfekzelv kf jkivexkyve fli
dzczkrip jvtlizkp.

Z vogvtk kyv sluxvk kf sv ze srcretv ulizex kyv wzjtrc pvri veuzex Alev 30,
1956.

Z jyrcc gifgfjv r srcretvu sluxvk wfi kyv evok wzjtrc pvri veuzex Alev 30,
1957.

Slk kyv srcretv nv riv jvvbzex treefk sv rttfdgczjyvu nzkyflk kyv
tfekzelzex vmvip-urp vwwfik fw kyv Vovtlkzmv reu Cvxzjcrkzmv Siretyvj kf
bvvg vogveuzklivj leuvi tfekifc. Zk nzcc rcjf sv evtvjjrip kf tfekzelv rcc
fw kyv givjvek votzjv krovj nzkyflk rep ivultkzfe reu kyv tfigfirkzfe
zetfdv krovj rk kyvzi givjvek irkvj wfi refkyvi pvri svpfeu evok Rgizc
1jk.

Zk zj lehlvjkzferscp kilv kyrk fli givjvek kro cvmvc zj mvip sliuvejfdv
reu, ze kyv zekvivjk fw cfex kvid reu tfekzelflj vtfefdzt xifnky, jyflcu sv
ivultvu nyve nv giluvekcp tre. Zk zj vjjvekzrc, ze kyv jfleu drerxvdvek fw
kyv Xfmviedvek'j wzeretvj, kyrk nv sv dzeuwlc fw fli vefidflj erkzferc uvsk
reu fw kyv fsczxrkzfe nv yrmv kfnriu wlkliv Rdviztrej kf ivultv kyrk uvsk
nyvevmvi nv tre rggifgizrkvcp uf jf. Leuvi tfeuzkzfej fw yzxy gvrtvkzdv
gifjgvizkp, jlty rj efn vozjk, nv tre evmvi aljkzwp xfzex wlikyvi zekf uvsk
kf xzmv flijvcmvj r kro tlk rk kyv vogvejv fw fli tyzcuive. Jf, ze kyv
givjvek jkrkv fw fli wzeretzrc rwwrzij, Z vrievjkcp svczvmv kyrk r kro tlk
tre sv uvvdvu aljkzwzrscv fecp nyve zk nzcc efk lesrcretv kyv sluxvk, r
sluxvk nyzty drbvj gifmzjzfe wfi jfdv ivultkzfe, vmve kyflxy dfuvjk, ze fli
erkzferc uvsk. Ze kyzj nrp nv tre svjk drzekrze wzjtrc zekvxizkp.

R wfliky rzd fw fli gifxird zj:

KF WFJKVI R JKIFEX VTFEFDP

Fli tfdgvkzkzmv vekvigizjv jpjkvd uvgveuj fe kyv vevixp fw wivv yldre
svzexj, czdzkvu sp giluvek ivjkirzekj ze crn, ljzex wivv dribvkj kf gcre,
fixrezqv reu uzjkizslkv gifultkzfe, reu jgliivu sp kyv gifjgvtk fw ivnriu
wfi jlttvjjwlc vwwfik. Kyzj jpjkvd yrj uvmvcfgvu fli ivjflitvj. Zk yrj
drimvcfljcp vogreuvu fli gifultkzmv trgrtzkp. Rxrzejk kyv ivtfiu fw rcc
fkyvi vtfefdzt jpjkvdj uvmzjvu kyiflxy kyv rxvj, kyzj tfdgvkzkzmv jpjkvd
yrj gifmvu kyv dfjk tivrkzmv ljvi fw yldre jbzccj ze kyv uvmvcfgdvek fw
gypjztrc ivjflitvj, reu kyv iztyvjk ivnriuvi fw yldre vwwfik.

Kyzj zj jkzcc kilv ze kyzj vir nyve zdgifmvu czmzex jkreuriuj reu izjzex
erkzferc ivhlzivdvekj riv rttfdgrezvu sp jnzwk rumretvj ze kvtyefcfxp reu
irgzu fsjfcvjtvetv ze drtyzevj reu dvkyfuj. Kpgztrc fw kyvjv riv kyv
jkizuvj druv ze tfejkiltkzfe fw gcrekj kf gifultv vcvtkiztrc vevixp wifd
rkfdzt gfnvi reu fw crsfirkfizvj reu zejkrccrkzfej wfi kyv rggcztrkzfe fw
kyzj evn wfitv ze zeuljkip, rxiztlckliv reu kyv yvrczex rikj. Kyvjv
uvmvcfgdvekj drbv zk zdgvirkzmv--kf rjjliv vwwvtkzmv wletkzfezex fw fli
vekvigizjv jpjkvd--kyrk kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek tfetvie zkjvcw nzky tvikrze
sifru rivrj fw fli vtfefdzt czwv. Dfjk zdgfikrek fw kyvjv zj:

Rxiztlckliv

Fli wrid gvfgcv riv efk jyrizex rj kyvp jyflcu ze kyv xvevirc gifjgvizkp.
Kyvp rcfev fw rcc drafi xiflgj yrmv jvve kyvzi zetfdvj uvtczev irkyvi kyre
izjv. Kyvp riv trlxyk svknvve knf dzccjkfevj--izjzex gifultkzfe tfjkj reu
uvtczezex giztvj. Jlty yrid kf r grik fw kyv erkzferc vtfefdp jf mzkrccp
zdgfikrek kf vmvipfev zj fw xivrk tfetvie kf lj rcc. Ef fkyvi ivjflitv zj
jf zeuzjgvejrscv rj kyv creu kyrk wvvuj reu tcfkyvj lj. Ef xiflg zj dfiv
wleurdvekrc kf fli erkzferc czwv kyre fli wridvij.

Ze jlttvjjwlc gifjvtlkzfe fw kyv nri, kyv erkzfe trccvu wfi kyv lkdfjk
vwwfik fw zkj wridvij. Kyvzi ivjgfejv nrj jlgvis, kyvzi tfekizslkzfe
lejligrjjvu. Wridvij riv efk efn kf sv scrdvu wfi kyv dflekrzeflj,
giztv-uvgivjjzex jligcljvj gifultvu ze ivjgfejv kf nrikzdv gfcztzvj reu
crnj kyrk nviv kff cfex tfekzelvu. Nri dribvkj riv efk kyv dribvkj fw
gvrtvkzdv. Wrzcliv kf ivtfxezqv kyrk srjzt wrtk sp r kzdvcp rualjkdvek fw
nrikzdv cvxzjcrkzfe siflxyk zkj zevmzkrscv ivjlck ze gvrtvkzdv--jligcljvj,
cfnvi giztvj reu cfnvi zetfdvj wfi fli wridvij.

Kyv uzdvejzfej fw xfmviedvek ivjgfejzszczkp riv rj sifru reu tfdgcvo rj kyv
wrid gifscvd zkjvcw. Nv riv yviv tfetvievu efk fecp nzky fli vjjvekzrc
tfekzelzex jlggczvj fw wffu reu wzsvi, slk rcjf nzky r nrp fw czwv. Sfky
riv zeuzjgvejrscv kf kyv nvcc-svzex reu jkivexky fw kyv erkzfe.
Tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyvjv drkkvij dljk sv rsfmv reu svpfeu gfczkztj. Fli
erkzferc wrid gfcztp, jf mzkrc kf kyv nvcwriv fw wrid gvfgcv reu rcc fw lj,
dljk efk svtfdv r wzvcu wfi gfczkztrc nriwriv. Kff dlty zj rk jkrbv.

Fli wrid gvfgcv vogvtk fw lj, nyf yrmv ivjgfejzszczkp wfi kyvzi xfmviedvek,
leuvijkreuzex fw kyvzi gifscvdj reu kyv nzcc kf yvcg jfcmv kyvd. Fli
fsavtkzmv dljk sv kf yvcg sizex gifultkzfe zekf srcretv nzky vozjkzex reu
evn dribvkj, rk giztvj kyrk pzvcu wridvij r ivklie wfi kyvzi nfib ze czev
nzky nyrk fkyvi Rdviztrej xvk.

Kf ivrty kyzj xfrc, uvvg-jvrkvu gifscvdj dljk sv jlsavtkvu kf r jkvggvu-lg
rkkrtb. Kyviv zj ef jzexcv vrjp jfclkzfe. Irkyvi, kyviv dljk sv r
drep-jzuvu rjjrlck fe kyv jklssfie gifscvdj fw jligcljvj, giztvj, tfjkj,
reu dribvkj; reu r jkvrup, gvijzjkvek, zdrxzerkzmv rumretv ze kyv
ivcrkzfejyzg svknvve wridvij reu kyvzi xfmviedvek.

Ze r wvn urpj, sp jgvtzrc dvjjrxv, Z jyrcc crp svwfiv kyv Tfexivjj dp
uvkrzcvu ivtfddveurkzfej wfi evn jkvgj kyrk jyflcu sv krbve gifdgkcp kf
jgvvu kyv kirejzkzfe ze rxiztlckliv reu kylj rjjzjk fli wridvij kf rtyzvmv
kyvzi wrzi jyriv fw kyv erkzferc zetfdv.

Srjzt kf kyzj gifxird nzcc sv r evn rkkrtb fe kyv jligclj gifscvd-wfi vmve
kyv svjk-tfetvzmvu wrid gifxird treefk nfib leuvi r dlckz-szcczfe ufccri
nvzxyk fw rttldlcrkvu jkftbj.

Z jyrcc lixv rlkyfizqrkzfe fw r jfzc sreb gifxird kf rccvmzrkv kyv gifscvd
fw uzmvikvu rtivj reu re fmvivogreuvu rxiztlcklirc gcrek. Kyzj nzcc zetcluv
re rtivrxv ivjvimv kf ivultv tliivek reu rttldlcrkvu jligcljvj fw tifgj ze
dfjk jvizflj uzwwztlckp, reu r tfejvimrkzfe ivjvimv kf rtyzvmv fkyvi evvuvu
rualjkdvekj ze kyv ljv fw rxiztlcklirc ivjflitvj. Z jyrcc lixv dvrjlivj kf
jkivexkyve fli jligclj uzjgfjrc rtkzmzkzvj.

Z jyrcc gifgfjv dvrjlivj kf jkivexkyve zeuzmzulrc tfddfuzkp gifxirdj, kf
ivdfmv tfekifcj nyviv gfjjzscv, kf ivultv triipfmvij, reu kf jkfg wlikyvi
rttldlcrkzfej fw jligcljvj. Z jyrcc rjb kyv Tfexivjj kf gifmzuv jlsjkrekzrc
evn wleuj wfi re vogreuvu uizmv fe kyv ivjvrity wifek, kf uvmvcfg evn
dribvkj, evn tifgj, reu evn ljvj. Kyv Ilirc Uvmvcfgdvek Gifxird kf svkkvi
kyv cfk fw cfn-zetfdv wrid wrdzczvj uvjvimvj wlcc Tfexivjjzferc jlggfik.
Kyv Xivrk Gcrzej Gifxird dljk xf wfinriu mzxfifljcp. Rumretvj fe kyvjv reu
fkyvi wifekj nzcc glcc ufne kyv giztvuvgivjjzex jligcljvj reu irzjv wrid
zetfdv.

Ze kyzj kzdv fw kvjkzex ze rxiztlckliv, nv jyflcu rcc kfxvkyvi, ivxriucvjj
fw grikp, triip wfinriu ivjfclkvcp nzky r jfleu reu wfinriu cffbzex gifxird
fe nyzty wrid gvfgcv drp tfewzuvekcp uvgveu, efn reu wfi pvrij kf tfdv.

Z jyrcc sizvwcp dvekzfe wfli fkyvi jlsavtkj uzivtkcp ivcrkvu kf kyv
nvcc-svzex fw kyv vtfefdp, givczdzerip kf kyvzi wlccvi uzjtljjzfe ze kyv
Vtfefdzt Ivgfik reu crkvi tfddleztrkzfej.

Ivjflitvj Tfejvimrkzfe

Z nzjy kf iv-vdgyrjzqv kyv tizkztrc zdgfikretv fw kyv nzjv ljv reu
tfejvimrkzfe fw fli xivrk erklirc ivjflitvj fw creu, wfivjkj, dzevircj reu
nrkvi reu kyvzi cfex-irexv uvmvcfgdvek tfejzjkvek nzky fli rxiztlcklirc
gfcztp. Nrkvi ze grikztlcri efn gcrpj re zetivrjzex ifcv ze zeuljkizrc
giftvjjvj, ze kyv ziizxrkzfe fw creu, ze vcvtkizt gfnvi, rj nvcc rj ze
ufdvjkzt ljvj. Rk kyv jrdv kzdv, zk yrj kyv gfkvekzrc fw urdrxv reu
uzjrjkvi.

R tfdgivyvejzmv cvxzjcrkzmv gifxird wfi nrkvi tfejvimrkzfe nzcc sv
jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Tfexivjj ulizex kyv Jvjjzfe. Kyv uvmvcfgdvek fw fli nrkvi
ivjflitvj treefk sv rttfdgczjyvu fmviezxyk. Kyv evvu zj jlty kyrk nv dljk
drbv wrjkvi gifxivjj reu nzkyflk uvcrp. Kyvivwfiv, Z jkifexcp ivtfddveu
kyrk rtkzfe sv krbve rk kyzj Jvjjzfe fe jlty nyfccp Wvuvirc gifavtkj rj kyv
Tfcfiruf Izmvi Jkfirxv Gifavtk reu kyv Wipzexgre-Ribrejrj Gifavtk; fe kyv
Afye Urp grikevijyzg gifavtk, reu fkyvi gifavtkj nyzty gifmzuv wfi
tffgvirkzmv rtkzfe svknvve kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek reu efe-Wvuvirc
zekvivjkj; reu fe cvxzjcrkzfe, nyzty drbvj gifmzjzfe wfi Wvuvirc
grikztzgrkzfe ze jdrcc gifavtkj leuvi kyv gizdrip jgfejfijyzg fw rxvetzvj
fw Jkrkv reu cftrc xfmviedvek.

Ulizex kyv grjk pvri kyv rivrj fw fli Erkzferc Gribj yrmv svve vogreuvu,
reu evn nzcuczwv ivwlxvj yrmv svve tivrkvu. Kyv mzjzkj fw fli gvfgcv kf kyv
Gribj yrmv zetivrjvu dlty dfiv irgzucp kyre yrmv kyv wrtzczkzvj kf triv wfi
kyvd. Kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc jlsdzk ivtfddveurkzfej kf gifmzuv dfiv
ruvhlrkv wrtzczkzvj kf bvvg rsivrjk fw kyv zetivrjzex zekvivjk fw fli
gvfgcv ze kyv xivrk flkuffij.

Uzjrjkvi Rjjzjkretv

R dfuvie tfddlezkp zj r tfdgcvo tfdszerkzfe fw jbzccj, jgvtzrczqvu
slzcuzexj, drtyzevj, tfddleztrkzfej reu yfdvj. Dfjk zdgfikrekcp, zk
zemfcmvj yldre czmvj. Uzjrjkvi ze drep wfidj--sp wcffu, wifjk, yzxy nzeuj,
wfi zejkretv--tre uvjkifp fe r drjjzmv jtrcv ze r wvn yflij kyv crsfi fw
drep pvrij.

Kyiflxy kyv grjk kyivv pvrij kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe yrj ivgvrkvucp dfmvu zekf
rtkzfe nyvivmvi uzjrjkvi jkiltb. Kyv vokvek fw Jkrkv grikztzgrkzfe ze
ivczvw rtkzmzkzvj, yfnvmvi, yrj svve wri wifd lezwfid reu, ze drep trjvj,
yrj svve vzkyvi zeruvhlrkv fi efevozjkvek. Uzjrjkvi rjjzjkretv cvxzjcrkzfe
ivhlzivj fmviyrlczex reu re vogvizdvekrc gifxird fw wcffu-urdrxv
zeuvdezkzvj jyflcu sv leuvikrbve. Kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc drbv uvkrzcvu
ivtfddveurkzfej fe kyvjv jlsavtkj.

Rivr Ivuvmvcfgdvek

Nv dljk yvcg uvrc nzky kyv gftbvkj fw tyifezt levdgcfpdvek kyrk yviv reu
kyviv dri kyv erkzfe'j xvevirc zeuljkizrc gifjgvizkp. Vtfefdzt tyrexvj ze
ivtvek pvrij yrmv svve fwkve jf irgzu reu wri-ivrtyzex kyrk rivrj tfddzkkvu
kf r jzexcv cftrc ivjflitv fi zeuljkizrc rtkzmzkp yrmv wfleu kyvdjvcmvj
kvdgfirizcp uvgizmvu fw kyvzi dribvkj reu kyvzi czmvczyffu.

Jlty tfeuzkzfej dvre jvmviv yriujyzg wfi kyfljreuj fw gvfgcv rj kyv jcfn
giftvjj fw rurgkrkzfe kf evn tzitldjkretvj xfvj fe. Kyzj giftvjj tre sv
jgvvuvu lg. Crjk pvri Z rlkyfizqvu r drafi jklup fw kyv gifscvd kf wzeu
ruuzkzferc jkvgj kf jlggcvdvek vozjkzex gifxirdj wfi kyv ivuvmvcfgdvek fw
rivrj fw tyifezt levdgcfpdvek. Ivtfddveurkzfej nzcc sv jlsdzkkvu, uvjzxevu
kf jlggcvdvek, nzky Wvuvirc kvtyeztrc reu cfre rjjzjkretv cftrc vwwfikj kf
xvk fe nzky kyzj mzkrc afs. Zdgifmzex jlty tfddlezkzvj dljk, fw tflijv,
ivdrze kyv gizdrip ivjgfejzszczkp fw kyv gvfgcv czmzex kyviv reu fw kyvzi
Jkrkvj. Slk r jfleucp tfetvzmvu Wvuvirc grikevijyzg gifxird tre sv fw ivrc
rjjzjkretv kf kyvd ze kyvzi vwwfikj.

Yzxynrp Cvxzjcrkzfe.

Cvxzjcrkzfe kf gifmzuv r dfuvie, zekvijkrkv yzxynrp jpjkvd zj vmve dfiv
lixvek kyzj pvri kyre crjk, wfi 12 dfekyj yrmv efn grjjvu ze nyzty nv yrmv
wrccve wlikyvi svyzeu ze ifru tfejkiltkzfe evvuvu wfi kyv gvijferc jrwvkp,
kyv xvevirc gifjgvizkp, kyv erkzferc jvtlizkp fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv.
Ulizex kyv pvri, kyv eldsvi fw dfkfi mvyztcvj yrj zetivrjvu wifd 58 kf 61
dzcczfe. Ulizex kyv grjk pvri fmvi 38,000 gvijfej cfjk kyvzi czmvj ze
yzxynrp rttzuvekj, nyzcv kyv wvriwlc kfcc fw zealizvj reu gifgvikp urdrxv
yrj xfev fe lersrkvu.

Ze dp dvjjrxv fw Wvsilrip 22, 1955, Z lixvu kyrk dvrjlivj sv krbve kf
tfdgcvkv kyv mzkrc 40,000 dzcv zekvijkrkv jpjkvd fmvi r gvizfu fw 10 pvrij
rk re vjkzdrkvu Wvuvirc tfjk fw rggifozdrkvcp 25 szcczfe ufccrij. Ef
gifxird nrj rufgkvu.

Zw nv riv vmvi kf jfcmv fli dflekzex kirwwzt gifscvd, kyv nyfcv zekvijkrkv
jpjkvd dljk sv rlkyfizqvu rj fev gifavtk, kf sv tfdgcvkvu rggifozdrkvcp
nzkyze kyv jgvtzwzvu kzdv. Fecp ze kyzj nrp tre zeuljkip vwwztzvekcp xvri
zkjvcw kf kyv afs ryvru. Fecp ze kyzj nrp tre kyv ivhlzivu gcreezex reu
vexzevvizex sv rttfdgczjyvu nzkyflk kyv tfewljzfe reu nrjkv lermfzurscv r
gzvtvdvrc rggifrty. Wlikyvidfiv, rj Z gfzekvu flk crjk pvri, kyv givjjzex
erkliv fw kyzj gifscvd dljk efk cvru lj kf jfclkzfej flkjzuv kyv sfleuj fw
jfleu wzjtrc drerxvdvek. Rj ze kyv trjv fw fkyvi givjjzex gifscvdj, kyviv
dljk sv re ruvhlrkv gcre fw wzeretzex. Kf tfekzelv kyv uirjkztrccp evvuvu
zdgifmvdvek ze fkyvi erkzferc yzxynrp jpjkvdj, Z ivtfddveu kyv tfekzelrkzfe
fw kyv Wvuvirc Rzu Yzxynrp Gifxird.

Rjzuv wifd rxiztlckliv reu kyv wfli jlsavtkj jgvtzwztrccp dvekzfevu, re
zekvxirc grik fw fli vwwfikj kf wfjkvi r jkifex reu vogreuzex wivv vtfefdp
zj bvvgzex fgve kyv uffi fw fggfiklezkp kf evn reu jdrcc vekvigizjvj,
tyvtbzex dfefgfcp, reu givjvimzex r tfdgvkzkzmv vemzifedvek. Ze kyzj grjk
pvri kyv jkvrup zdgifmvdvek ze kyv vtfefdzt yvrcky fw jdrcc sljzevjj yrj
ivzewfitvu kyv mzkrczkp fw fli tfdgvkzkzmv vtfefdp. Nv jyrcc tfekzelv kf
yvcg jdrcc sljzevjj tfetviej kf fskrze rttvjj kf ruvhlrkv wzeretzex reu kf
tfdgvkvek tflejvc fe drerxvdvek, gifultkzfe, reu dribvkzex gifscvdj.

Kyiflxy dvrjlivj rcivrup krbve, fggfiklezkzvj wfi jdrccsljzevjj
grikztzgrkzfe ze xfmviedvek giftlivdvek gifxirdj, zetcluzex dzczkrip
giftlivdvek, riv xivrkcp zdgifmvu. Kyv vwwvtkzmvevjj fw kyvjv dvrjlivj nzcc
svtfdv zetivrjzexcp rggrivek. Nv jyrcc tfekzelv kf drbv tvikrze kyrk jdrcc
sljzevjj yrj r wrzi fggfiklezkp kf tfdgvkv reu yrj re vtfefdzt vemzifedvek
ze nyzty zk drp gifjgvi.

Ze dp dvjjrxv crjk pvri Z ivwviivu kf kyv rggfzekdvek fw re rumzjfip
tfddzkkvv kf rggirzjv reu ivgfik kf dv fe kyv uvwztzvetzvj rj nvcc rj kyv
vwwvtkzmvevjj fw vozjkzex Wvuvirc kirejgfikrkzfe gfcztzvj. Z yrmv tfddveuvu
kyv wleurdvekrc gligfjvj reu fsavtkzmvj fw kyv tfddzkkvv'j ivgfik. Z
vrievjkcp ivtfddveu kyrk kyv Tfexivjj xzmv gifdgk rkkvekzfe kf kyv
tfddzkkvv'j gifgfjrcj.

Vjjvekzrc kf r gifjgviflj vtfefdzt vemzifedvek wfi rcc sljzevjj, jdrcc reu
crixv--wfi rxiztlckliv reu zeuljkip reu tfddvitv-zj vwwztzvetp ze
Xfmviedvek. Kf kyrk veu, voyrljkzmv jkluzvj fw kyv vekziv xfmviedvekrc
jkiltkliv nviv druv sp kyv Tfddzjjzfe fe Zekvixfmviedvekrc Ivcrkzfej reu
kyv Tfddzjjzfe fe kyv Fixrezqrkzfe fw kyv Vovtlkzmv Sirety fw kyv
Xfmviedvek--kyv ivgfikj fw kyvjv Tfddzjjzfej riv efn leuvi zekvejzmv ivmzvn
reu rcivrup ze kyv giftvjj fw zdgcvdvekrkzfe ze zdgfikrek rivrj.

Fev jgvtzwzt reu dfjk mzkrc xfmviedvekrc wletkzfe dvizkj jklup reu rtkzfe
sp kyv Tfexivjj. Rj grik fw fli gifxird fw gifdfkzex vwwztzvetp ze
Xfmviedvek reu xvkkzex kyv wzjtrc jzklrkzfe ze yreu, kyv Gfjk Fwwztv
Uvgrikdvek ze kyv grjk kyivv pvrij yrj svve fmviyrlcvu. Evricp fev kyfljreu
evn gfjk fwwztvj yrmv svve gifmzuvu. Wzeretzrc girtkztvj yrmv svve
dfuviezqvu, reu kirejgfikrkzfe reu fgvirkzex dvkyfuj riv svzex tfejkrekcp
zdgifmvu. R evn nrxv reu zetvekzmv gcre wfi kyv yrcw dzcczfe gfjkrc
vdgcfpvvj yrj svve vjkrsczjyvu. Evmvi svwfiv yrj kyv gfjkrc jpjkvd yreucvu
jf dlty drzc jf hlztbcp reu jf vtfefdztrccp.

Kyv Gfjk Fwwztv Uvgrikdvek wrtvj knf jvizflj gifscvdj. Wzijk, dlty fw zkj
gypjztrc gcrek--gfjk fwwztvj reu fkyvi slzcuzexj-zj fsjfcvkv reu
zeruvhlrkv. Drep evn slzcuzexj reu kyv dfuviezqrkzfe fw givjvek fevj riv
vjjvekzrc zw nv riv kf yrmv zdgifmvu drzc jvimztv. Kyv jvtfeu gifscvd zj
kyv Uvgrikdvek'j wzjtrc gczxyk. Zk efn wrtvj re reelrc uvwztzk fw fev-yrcw
szcczfe ufccrij.

Ivtfddveurkzfej fe gfjkrc wrtzczkzvj reu fe ruuzkzferc gfjkrc ivmvelvj nzcc
sv jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Tfexivjj.

R wzerc tfejzuvirkzfe ze fli gifxird gcreezex zj:

KYV IVJGFEJV KF YLDRE TFETVIEJ

R wleurdvekrc svczvw jyzevj wfiky ze kyzj Ivglsczt. Nv svczvmv ze kyv nfiky
reu uzxezkp fw kyv zeuzmzulrc. Nv befn kyrk zw nv riv kf xfmvie flijvcmvj
nzjvcp--ze kyv kiruzkzfe fw Rdviztr--nv dljk yrmv kyv fggfiklezkp kf
uvmvcfg fli zeuzmzulrc trgrtzkzvj kf kyv lkdfjk.

Kf wlcwzcc kyv zeuzmzulrc'j rjgzirkzfej ze kyv Rdviztre nrp fw czwv, xffu
vultrkzfe zj wleurdvekrc. Xffu vultrkzfe zj kyv flkxifnky fw xffu yfdvj,
xffu tfddlezkzvj, xffu tylityvj, reu xffu jtyffcj. Kfurp fli jtyffcj wrtv
givjjzex gifscvdj--gifscvdj nyzty nzcc efk pzvcu kf jnzwk reu vrjp
jfclkzfej, fi kf rep jzexcv rtkzfe. Kyvp nzcc pzvcu fecp kf r tfekzelzex,
rtkzmv, wfidvu vwwfik sp kyv gvfgcv kfnriu rtyzvmzex svkkvi jtyffcj.

Kyzj bzeu fw vwwfik yrj svve jgliivu sp kyv kyfljreuj fw tfewvivetvj yvcu
ze ivtvek dfekyj sp yrcw r dzcczfe tzkzqvej reu vultrkfij ze rcc grikj fw
kyv tflekip, tlcdzerkzex ze kyv Nyzkv Yfljv Tfewvivetv fe Vultrkzfe. Ze
kyrk Tfewvivetv, jfdv knf kyfljreu uvcvxrkvj, sifrucp ivgivjvekrkzmv fw kyv
erkzfe, jkluzvu kfxvkyvi kyv gifscvdj fw kyv erkzfe'j jtyffcj.

Kyvp tfetcluvu kyrk kyv gvfgcv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj dljk drbv r xivrkvi
vwwfik kyiflxy kyvzi cftrc, Jkrkv, reu Wvuvirc Xfmviedvekj kf zdgifmv kyv
vultrkzfe fw fli pflky. Kyzj vogivjjzfe wifd kyv gvfgcv dljk efn sv
kirejcrkvu zekf rtkzfe rk rcc cvmvcj fw xfmviedvek.

Jf wri rj kyv Wvuvirc jyriv fw ivjgfejzszczkp zj tfetvievu, Z lixv kyrk kyv
Tfexivjj dfmv gifdgkcp kf vertk re vwwvtkzmv gifxird fw Wvuvirc rjjzjkretv
kf yvcg virjv kyv vozjkzex uvwztzk fw jtyffc tcrjjiffdj. Jlty r gifxird,
nyzty jyflcu sv czdzkvu kf r wzmv-pvri gvizfu, dljk fgvirkv kf zetivrjv
irkyvi kyre uvtivrjv cftrc reu Jkrkv jlggfik fw jtyffcj reu kf xzmv kyv
xivrkvjk yvcg kf kyv Jkrkvj reu cftrczkzvj nzky kyv cvrjk wzeretzrc
ivjflitvj. Wvuvirc rzu jyflcu ze ef nrp avfgriuzqv kyv wivvufd fw cftrc
jtyffc jpjkvdj. Kyviv nzcc sv givjvekvu kf kyv Tfexivjj r ivtfddveuvu
gifxird fw Wvuvirc rjjzjkretv wfi jtyffc tfejkiltkzfe.

Jlty r gifxird jyflcu sv rttfdgrezvu sp rtkzfe kf zetivrjv jvimztvj kf kyv
erkzfe'j jtyffcj sp kyv Fwwztv fw Vultrkzfe reu sp cvxzjcrkzfe kf gifmzuv
tfekzelrkzfe fw grpdvekj kf jtyffc uzjkiztkj nyviv Wvuvirc rtkzmzkzvj yrmv
zdgrzivu kyv rszczkp fw kyfjv uzjkiztkj kf gifmzuv ruvhlrkv jtyffcj.

Leuvi kyv 1954 Rdveudvekj kf kyv fcu-rxv reu jlimzmfij' zejliretv gifxird,
gifkvtkzfe nrj vokveuvu kf jfdv 10 dzcczfe ruuzkzferc nfibvij reu svevwzkj
nviv zetivrjvu. Kyv jpjkvd efn yvcgj gifkvtk 9 flk fw 10 Rdviztre nfibvij
reu kyvzi wrdzczvj rxrzejk cfjj fw zetfdv ze fcu rxv fi fe kyv uvrky fw kyv
sivrunzeevi. Kyv jpjkvd zj jfleu. Zk dljk sv bvgk jf. Ze uvmvcfgzex
zdgifmvdvekj ze kyv jpjkvd, nv dljk xzmv kyv dfjk trivwlc tfejzuvirkzfe kf
gfglcrkzfe reu jftzrc kiveuj, reu kf wzjtrc ivhlzivdvekj. Nzky kyvjv
tfejzuvirkzfej ze dzeu, kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc givjvek zkj ivtfddveurkzfej
wfi wlikyvi vogrejzfe fw tfmvirxv reu fkyvi jkvgj nyzty tre sv krbve nzjvcp
rk kyzj kzdv.

Fkyvi evvuj ze kyv rivr fw jftzrc nvcwriv zetcluv zetivrjvu tyzcu nvcwriv
jvimztvj, vokvejzfe fw kyv gifxird fw rzu kf uvgveuvek tyzcuive,
zekvejzwzvu rkkrtb fe almvezcv uvczehlvetp, reu jgvtzrc rkkvekzfe kf kyv
gifscvdj fw dvekrccp ivkriuvu tyzcuive. Kyv kirzezex fw dfiv jbzccvu
nfibvij wfi kyvjv wzvcuj reu kyv hlvjk wfi evn befncvuxv kyiflxy ivjvrity
ze jftzrc nvcwriv riv vjjvekzrc. Jzdzcricp kyv gifscvdj fw fli rxvu gvfgcv
evvu fli rkkvekzfe.

Kyv erkzfe yrj druv uirdrkzt gifxivjj ze tfehlvizex uzjvrjv--gifxivjj fw
gifwfleu yldre jzxezwztretv nyzty tre sv xivrkcp rttvcvirkvu sp re
zekvejzwzvu vwwfik ze dvuztrc ivjvrity. R nvcc-jlggfikvu, nvcc-srcretvu
gifxird fw ivjvrity, zetcluzex srjzt ivjvrity, tre fgve evn wifekzvij fw
befncvuxv, givmvek reu ivczvmv jlwwvizex, reu gifcfex czwv. Rttfiuzexcp Z
jyrcc ivtfddveu r jlsjkrekzrc zetivrjv ze Wvuvirc wleuj wfi kyv jlggfik fw
jlty r gifxird. Rj re zekvxirc grik fw kyzj vwwfik, Z jyrcc ivtfddveu r evn
gcre kf rzu tfejkiltkzfe fw efe-Wvuvirc dvuztrc ivjvrity reu kvrtyzex
wrtzczkzvj reu kf yvcg gifmzuv dfiv ruvhlrkv jlggfik wfi kyv kirzezex fw
dvuztrc ivjvrity dregfnvi.

Wzerccp, nv dljk rzu ze tljyzfezex kyv yvrmp reu izjzex tfjkj fw zccevjj
reu yfjgzkrczqrkzfe kf zeuzmzulrcj reu wrdzczvj. Gifmzjzfe jyflcu sv druv,
sp Wvuvirc ivzejliretv fi fkyvinzjv, kf wfjkvi vokvejzfe fw mfclekrip
yvrcky zejliretv tfmvirxv kf drep dfiv gvijfej, vjgvtzrccp fcuvi gvijfej
reu kyfjv ze ilirc rivrj. Gcrej jyflcu sv vmfcmvu kf zdgifmv gifkvtkzfe
rxrzejk kyv tfjkj fw gifcfexvu fi jvmviv zccevjj. Kyvjv dvrjlivj nzcc yvcg
ivultv kyv ufccri sriizvi svknvve drep Rdviztrej reu kyv svevwzkj fw dfuvie
dvuztrc triv.

Kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe yvrcky gifxird nzcc sv jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Tfexivjj ze
uvkrzc.

Kyv ivjgfejv fw xfmviedvek kf yldre tfetviej vdsirtvj, fw tflijv, fkyvi
dvrjlivj fw sifru glsczt zekvivjk, reu fw jgvtzrc zekvivjk kf fli nfibzex
dve reu nfdve. Kyv evvu jkzcc vozjkj wfi zdgifmvdvek fw kyv Crsfi
Drerxvdvek Ivcrkzfej Rtk. Kyv ivtfddveurkzfej Z jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Tfexivjj
crjk pvri krbv zekf rttflek efk fecp kyv zekvivjkj fw crsfi reu drerxvdvek
slk rcjf kyv glsczt nvcwriv. Kyv evvuvu rdveudvekj jyflcu sv vertkvu
nzkyflk wlikyvi uvcrp.

Nv dljk rcjf triip wfinriu kyv afs fw zdgifmzex kyv nrxvyfli crn. Crjk pvri
Z ivhlvjkvu kyv Tfexivjj kf sifruve kyv tfmvirxv fw kyv dzezdld nrxv. Z
ivgvrk kyrk ivtfddveurkzfe, reu Z gcvuxv kyv wlcc ivjflitvj fw kyv
Vovtlkzmv Sirety kf rjjzjk kyv Tfexivjj ze wzeuzex nrpj kf rkkrze kyzj
xfrc. Dfivfmvi, rj ivhlvjkvu crjk pvri, cvxzjcrkzfe jyflcu sv grjjvu kf
tcrizwp reu jkivexkyve kyv vzxyk-yfli crnj wfi kyv svevwzk fw nfibvij nyf
riv jlsavtk kf Wvuvirc nrxv jkreuriuj fe Wvuvirc reu Wvuvirccp rjjzjkvu
tfejkiltkzfe reu fkyvi glsczt nfibj.

Kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc jyfikcp gifgfjv cvxzjcrkzfe kf rjjliv ruvhlrkv
uzjtcfjliv fw kyv wzeretzrc rwwrzij fw vrty vdgcfpvv gvejzfe reu nvcwriv
gcre reu kf rwwfiu jlsjkrekzrc gifkvtkzfe kf kyvzi svevwztzrizvj ze
rttfiuretv nzky kyv fsavtkzmvj flkczevu ze dp dvjjrxv fw Arelrip 11, 1954.
Fttlgrkzferc jrwvkp jkzcc uvdreuj rkkvekzfe, rj Z gfzekvu flk crjk pvri,
reu cvxzjcrkzfe kf zdgifmv kyv Cfexjyfivdve'j reu Yrisfi Nfibvij'
Tfdgvejrkzfe Rtk zj jkzcc evvuvu. Kyv zdgifmvdvek fw kyv Uzjkiztk fw
Tfcldszr Levdgcfpdvek Zejliretv Crn reu cvxzjcrkzfe kf gifmzuv vdgcfpvvj ze
kyv Uzjkiztk nzky efe-fttlgrkzferc uzjrszczkp zejliretv riv ef cvjj
evtvjjrip efn kyre 12 dfekyj rxf. Cvxzjcrkzfe kf rggcp kyv gizetzgcv fw
vhlrc grp wfi vhlrc nfib nzkyflk uzjtizdzerkzfe svtrljv fw jvo zj r drkkvi
fw jzdgcv aljkztv. Z vrievjkcp lixv kyv Tfexivjj kf dfmv jnzwkcp kf
zdgcvdvek kyvjv evvuvu crsfi dvrjlivj.

Ze kyv wzvcu fw yldre evvuj, nv dljk triip wfinriu kyv yfljzex gifxird,
nyzty zj tfekizslkzex jf xivrkcp kf kyv nvcc-svzex fw fli gvfgcv reu kyv
gifjgvizkp fw fli vtfefdp. Yfdv fnevijyzg zj efn rumretvu kf kyv gfzek
nyviv rcdfjk kyivv fw vmvip wzmv wrdzczvj ze fli tzkzvj, kfnej, reu jlslisj
fne kyv yfljvj kyvp czmv ze.

Wfi kyv yfljzex gifxird, dfjk fw kyv cvxzjcrkzmv rlkyfizkp rcivrup vozjkj.
Yfnvmvi, r wzid gifxird fw glsczt yfljzex zj vjjvekzrc lekzc kyv gizmrkv
slzcuzex zeuljkip yrj wfleu nrpj kf gifmzuv dfiv ruvhlrkv yfljzex wfi
cfn-zetfdv wrdzczvj. Kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe nzcc gifgfjv rlkyfizkp kf tfekirtk
wfi 35 kyfljreu ruuzkzferc glsczt yfljzex lezkj ze vrty fw kyv evok 2
wzjtrc pvrij wfi tfddlezkzvj nyzty nzcc grikztzgrkv ze re zekvxirkvu rkkrtb
fe jcldj reu sczxyk.

Kf dvvk kyv evvuj fw kyv xifnzex eldsvi fw fcuvi gvfgcv, jvmvirc rdveudvekj
kf kyv Erkzferc Yfljzex Rtk nzcc sv gifgfjvu kf rjjzjk kyv gizmrkv
yfdvslzcuzex zeuljkip rj nvcc rj tyrizkrscv reu efe-gifwzk fixrezqrkzfej.

Nzky jf crixv r eldsvi fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv uvjzizex kf dfuviezqv reu
zdgifmv vozjkzex unvcczexj, Z ivtfddveu kyrk kyv Kzkcv 1 gifxird wfi
gvidrevek zdgifmvdvekj ze kyv yfdv sv czsvirczqvu.

Z ivtfddveu zetivrjvj ze kyv xvevirc WYR dfikxrxv zejliretv rlkyfizkp; kyv
vokvejzfe fw kyv WYR dzczkrip yfljzex gifxird; re zetivrjv ze kyv
rlkyfizqrkzfe wfi Lisre Gcreezex xirekj; ze kyv jgvtzrc rjjzjkretv
rlkyfizkp fw kyv Wvuvirc Erkzferc Dfikxrxv Rjjftzrkzfe; reu tfekzelvu
jlggfik fw kyv tfccvxv yfljzex gifxird ze r nrp kyrk nzcc efk uzjtflirxv
gizmrkv trgzkrc wifd yvcgzex kf dvvk kyv evvuj fw fli tfccvxvj.

Kyv cvxzjcrkzfe Z yrmv ivtfddveuvu wfi nfibvij ze gizmrkv zeuljkip jyflcu
sv rttfdgrezvu sp r grirccvc vwwfik wfi kyv nvcwriv fw Xfmviedvek
vdgcfpvvj. Nv yrmv rttfdgczjyvu dlty ze kyzj wzvcu, zetcluzex r
tfekizslkfip czwv zejliretv gifxird; vhlzkrscv grp zetivrjvj reu r wizexv
svevwzkj gifxird, tfmvizex drep evvuvu gvijfeevc gfcztp tyrexvj, wifd
zdgifmvu givdzld grp kf r dvrezexwlc zetvekzmv rnriu gifxird.

Ruuzkzferc gvijfeevc drerxvdvek cvxzjcrkzfe zj evvuvu ze kyzj Jvjjzfe. Rj Z
jkrkvu crjk pvri, re vovtlkzmv grp zetivrjv zj vjjvekzrc kf vwwztzvek
xfmviedvekrc drerxvdvek. Jlty re zetivrjv, kfxvkyvi nzky evvuvu rualjkdvekj
ze kyv grp wfi kyv kfg trivvi gfjzkzfej, zj rcjf evtvjjrip kf kyv vhlzkrscv
tfdgcvkzfe fw kyv Wvuvirc grp gifxird zezkzrkvu crjk pvri. Fkyvi
cvxzjcrkzfe nzcc sv gifgfjvu, zetcluzex cvxzjcrkzfe wfi givgrzu xiflg
yvrcky zejliretv wfi vdgcfpvvj reu kyvzi uvgveuvekj reu kf vwwvtk drafi
zdgifmvdvekj ze kyv Tzmzc Jvimztv ivkzivdvek jpjkvd.

Rcc fw lj jyriv r tfekzelzex tfetvie wfi kyfjv nyf yrmv jvimvu kyzj erkzfe
ze kyv Ridvu Wfitvj. Kyv Tfddzjjzfe fe Mvkvirej Gvejzfej zj rk kyzj kzdv
tfeultkzex r jklup fw kyv vekziv wzvcu fw mvkvirej' svevwzkj reu nzcc jffe
jlsdzk gifgfjvu zdgifmvdvekj.

Nv riv giflu fw kyv gifxivjj fli gvfgcv yrmv druv ze kyv wzvcu fw tzmzc
izxykj. Ze Vovtlkzmv Sirety fgvirkzfej kyiflxyflk kyv erkzfe, vczdzerkzfe
fw uzjtizdzerkzfe reu jvxivxrkzfe zj rcc slk tfdgcvkvu. Gifxivjj zj rcjf
svzex druv rdfex tfekirtkfij vexrxvu ze wliezjyzex Xfmviedvek jvimztvj reu
ivhlzivdvekj. Vmvip tzkzqve efn yrj kyv fggfiklezkp kf wzk yzdjvcw wfi reu
kf yfcu r gfjzkzfe fw ivjgfejzszczkp ze kyv jvimztv fw yzj tflekip. Ze kyv
Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr, kyiflxy kyv mfclekrip tffgvirkzfe fw kyv gvfgcv,
uzjtizdzerkzfe reu jvxivxrkzfe riv uzjrggvrizex wifd yfkvcj, kyvrkvij,
ivjkrlirekj reu fkyvi wrtzczkzvj.

Zk zj uzjkliszex kyrk ze jfdv cftrczkzvj rccvxrkzfej gvijzjk kyrk Evxif
tzkzqvej riv svzex uvgizmvu fw kyvzi izxyk kf mfkv reu riv czbvnzjv svzex
jlsavtkvu kf lenriirekvu vtfefdzt givjjlivj. Z ivtfddveu kyrk kyv jlsjkretv
fw kyvjv tyrixvj sv kyfiflxycp vordzevu sp r Szgrikzjre Tfddzjjzfe tivrkvu
sp kyv Tfexivjj. Zk zj yfgvu kyrk jlty r tfddzjjzfe nzcc sv vjkrsczjyvu
gifdgkcp jf kyrk zk drp riizmv rk wzeuzexj nyzty tre ivtvzmv vricp
tfejzuvirkzfe.

Kyv jkrkliv fw fli cvruvijyzg ze kyv wivv nficu yrj zetivrjvu kyiflxy kyv
grjk kyivv pvrij svtrljv nv yrmv druv dfiv gifxivjj kyre vmvi svwfiv ze r
jzdzcri gvizfu kf rjjliv fli tzkzqvej vhlrczkp ze aljkztv, ze fggfiklezkp
reu ze tzmzc izxykj. Nv dljk vogreu kyzj vwwfik fe vmvip wifek. Nv dljk
jkizmv kf yrmv vmvip gvijfe aluxvu reu dvrjlivu sp nyrk yv zj, irkyvi kyre
sp yzj tfcfi, irtv fi ivczxzfe. Kyviv nzcc jffe sv ivtfddveuvu kf kyv
Tfexivjj r gifxird wlikyvi kf rumretv kyv vwwfikj fw kyv Xfmviedvek, nzkyze
kyv rivr fw Wvuvirc ivjgfejzszczkp, kf rttfdgczjy kyvjv fsavtkzmvj.

Fev grikztlcri tyrccvexv tfewifekj lj. Ze kyv Yrnrzzre Zjcreuj, Vrjk dvvkj
Nvjk. Kf kyv Zjcreuj, Rjzr reu Vlifgv reu kyv Nvjkvie Yvdzjgyviv, rcc kyv
tfekzevekj, yrmv tfekizslkvu kyvzi gvfgcvj reu kyvzi tlcklivj kf uzjgcrp r
lezhlv vordgcv fw r tfddlezkp kyrk zj r jlttvjjwlc crsfirkfip ze yldre
sifkyviyffu.

Jkrkvyffu, jlggfikvu sp kyv ivgvrkvucp vogivjjvu uvjziv fw kyv Zjcreuj'
gvfgcv reu sp fli kiruzkzfej, nflcu sv r jyzezex vordgcv fw kyv Rdviztre
nrp kf kyv vekziv vriky. Tfejvhlvekcp, Z lixvekcp ivhlvjk kyzj Tfexivjj kf
xirek jkrkvyffu wfi Yrnrzz. Rcjf, ze yridfep nzky kyv gifmzjzfej Z crjk
pvri tfddleztrkvu kf kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv Tfddzkkvvj fe Zekvizfi reu
Zejlcri Rwwrzij, Z kiljk kyrk gifxivjj kfnriu jkrkvyffu wfi Rcrjbr tre sv
druv ze kyzj Jvjjzfe.

Gifxivjj zj tfejkrek kfnriu wlcc zekvxirkzfe fw fli Zeuzre tzkzqvej zekf
efidrc tfddlezkp czwv. Ulizex kyv grjk knf pvrij kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe yrj
gifmzuvu jtyffc wrtzczkzvj wfi kyfljreuj fw Zeuzre tyzcuive givmzfljcp
uvezvu kyzj fggfiklezkp. Nv dljk tfekzelv kf dvvk kyv evvuj fw zetivrjvu
eldsvij fw Zeuzre tyzcuive. Gifmzjzfe jyflcu rcjf sv druv wfi kyv vultrkzfe
fw rulck Zeuzrej nyfjv jtyffczex ze vriczvi pvrij nrj evxcvtkvu.

Ze bvvgzex nzky fli ivjgfejzszczkp fw nficu cvruvijyzg reu ze fli fne jvcw
zekvivjk, Z rxrze gfzek flk kf kyv Tfexivjj kyv lixvek evvu wfi ivmzjzfe fw
kyv zddzxirkzfe reu erkzferczkp crnj. Fli erkzfe yrj rcnrpj nvctfdvu
zddzxirekj kf fli jyfivj. Kyv nzjufd fw jlty r gfcztp zj tcvricp jyfne sp
kyv wrtk kyrk Rdviztr yrj svve slzck sp zddzxirekj reu kyv uvjtveurekj fw
zddzxirekj. Kyrk gfcztp dljk sv tfekzelvu ivrczjkztrccp nzky givjvek urp
tfeuzkzfej ze dzeu.

Z ivtfddveu kyrk kyv eldsvi fw gvijfej rudzkkvu kf kyzj tflekip reelrccp sv
srjvu efk fe kyv 1920 tvejlj slk fe kyv crkvjk, kyv 1950 tvejlj. Gifmzjzfe
jyflcu sv druv kf rccfn wfi xivrkvi wcvozszczkp ze kyv ljv fw hlfkrj jf zw
fev tflekip ufvj efk ljv zkj jyriv, kyv mrtretzvj drp sv druv rmrzcrscv wfi
kyv ljv fw hlrczwzvu zeuzmzulrcj wifd fkyvi tflekizvj.

Kyv crn jyflcu sv rdveuvu kf gvidzk kyv Jvtivkrip fw Jkrkv reu kyv Rkkfievp
Xvevirc kf nrzmv kyv ivhlzivdvekj fw wzexvigizekzex fe r ivtzgiftrc srjzj
wfi gvijfej tfdzex kf kyzj tflekip wfi kvdgfirip mzjzkj. Kyzj reu fkyvi
tyrexvj ze kyv crn riv cfex fmviulv reu jyflcu sv krbve triv fw gifdgkcp.
Uvkrzcvu ivtfddveurkzfej wfi ivmzjzfe fw kyv zddzxirkzfe crnj nzcc sv
jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Tfexivjj.

Z rd yrggp kf ivgfik jlsjkrekzrc gifxivjj ze kyv wcfn fw zddzxirekj leuvi
kyv Ivwlxvv Ivczvw Rtk fw 1953; yfnvmvi, Z rxrze ivhlvjk kyzj Tfexivjj kf
rggifmv nzkyflk wlikyvi uvcrp kyv lixvekcp evvuvu rdveudvekj kf kyrk rtk
nyzty Z jlsdzkkvu ze kyv crjk Jvjjzfe. Svtrljv fw kyv yzxy gifjgvizkp ze
Xvidrep reu Rljkizr, kyv eldsvi fw zddzxirekj wifd kyfjv tflekizvj nzcc sv
ivultvu. Kyzj nzcc drbv rmrzcrscv kyfljreuj fw lewzccvu fgvezexj nyzty Z
ivtfddveu sv uzjkizslkvu kf Xivvtv reu Zkrcp reu kf vjtrgvvj wifd svyzeu
kyv Zife Tlikrze.

Fetv rxrze Z rjb kyv Tfexivjj kf afze nzky dv ze uvdfejkirkzex fli svczvw
ze kyv izxyk fw jlwwirxv. Z ivevn dp ivhlvjk kyrk kyv gizetzgcv fw
jvcw-xfmviedvek sv vokveuvu reu kyv izxyk fw jlwwirxv xirekvu kf kyv
tzkzqvej fw kyv Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr.

Kf tfetcluv: kyv mzjkr svwfiv lj zj sizxyk. Kyv drity fw jtzvetv, kyv
vogreuzex vtfefdp, kyv rumretv ze tfccvtkzmv jvtlizkp kfnriu r aljk
gvrtv--ze kyzj kyivvwfcu dfmvdvek fli gvfgcv riv tivrkzex evn jkreuriuj sp
nyzty kyv wlkliv fw kyv Ivglsczt drp sv aluxvu.

Gifxivjj, yfnvmvi, nzcc sv ivrczqvu fecp rj zk zj dfiv kyre drktyvu sp r
tfekzelzex xifnky ze kyv jgzizklrc jkivexky fw kyv erkzfe. Fli uvuztrkzfe
kf dfirc mrclvj dljk sv tfdgcvkv ze fli uvrczexj rsifru reu ze fli
ivcrkzfejyzgj rdfex flijvcmvj. Nv yrmv jzexcv-dzeuvu uvmfkzfe kf kyv tfddfe
xffu fw Rdviztr. Evmvi dljk nv wfixvk kyrk kyzj dvrej kyv nvcc-svzex, kyv
gifjgvizkp, kyv jvtlizkp fw rcc Rdviztrej ze vmvip nrcb fw czwv.

Kf kyv rkkrzedvek fw kyvjv fsavtkzmvj, Z gcvuxv wlcc vevixzvj fw kyv
Rudzezjkirkzfe, rj ze kyv Jvjjzfe ryvru, zk nfibj fe r gifxird wfi
jlsdzjjzfe kf pfl, kyv Tfexivjj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.