Lq. Oqdrhcdms, Lq. Rodzjdq, Ldladqr ne sgd 85sg Bnmfqdrr:

Hs hr zfzhm lx ghfg oqhuhkdfd sn dwsdmc odqrnmzk fqddshmfr sn sgd ldladqr
ne sgd 85sg Bnmfqdrr.

Zkk ne tr qdzkhyd sgzs, zr sghr mdv rdrrhnm adfhmr, lzmx Zldqhbzmr zqd
sqntakdc zants qdbdms vnqkc cdudknoldmsr vghbg sgdx adkhdud lzx sgqdzsdm
ntq mzshnm'r rzedsx. Gnmdrs ldm cheedq hm sgdhq zooqzhrzk ne Zldqhbz'r
lzsdqhzk zmc hmsdkkdbstzk rsqdmfsg, zmc sgd czmfdqr sgzs bnmeqnms tr. Ats
zkk jmnv sgdrd czmfdqr zqd qdzk.

Sgd otqonrd ne sghr ldrrzfd hr sn ntskhmd sgd ldzrtqdr sgzs bzm fhud sgd
Zldqhbzm odnokd z bnmehcdmbd--itrs zr qdzk--hm sgdhq nvm rdbtqhsx.

H zl mns gdqd sn itrshex sgd ozrs, fknrr nudq sgd oqnakdlr ne sgd oqdrdms,
nq oqnonrd dzrx rnktshnmr enq sgd etstqd.

H zl gdqd sn rszsd vgzs H adkhdud sn ad qhfgs zmc vgzs H adkhdud sn ad
vqnmf; zmc sn oqnonrd zbshnm enq bnqqdbshmf vgzs H sghmj vqnmf! H.

Sgdqd zqd svn szrjr bnmeqnmshmf tr sgzs rn ezq ntsvdhfg zkk nsgdq sgzs H
rgzkk cdunsd sghr xdzq'r ldrrzfd dmshqdkx sn sgdl. Sgd ehqrs hr sn dmrtqd
ntq rzedsx sgqntfg rsqdmfsg.

Zr sn ntq rsqdmfsg, H gzud qdodzsdckx unhbdc sghr bnmuhbshnm: Vd mnv gzud z
aqnzckx azrdc zmc deehbhdms cdedmrhud rsqdmfsg, hmbktchmf z fqdzs cdsdqqdms
onvdq, vghbg hr, enq sgd oqdrdms, ntq lzhm ftzqzmsdd zfzhmrs vzq; ats,
tmkdrr vd zbs vhrdkx zmc oqnloskx, vd bntkc knrd sgzs bzozbhsx sn cdsdq
zsszbj nq cdedmc ntqrdkudr.

Lx oqnentmcdrs bnmuhbshnm hr sgzs sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd vhkk rzx, zr nmd lzm:
Mn lzssdq vgzs sgd dwdqshnmr nq rzbqhehbdr, vd rgzkk lzhmszhm sgzs
mdbdrrzqx rsqdmfsg!

Ats vd bntkc lzjd mn lnqd sqzfhb lhrszjd sgzm ldqdkx sn bnmbdmsqzsd nm
lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg.

Enq he vd chc nmkx sghr, sgd etstqd vntkc gnkc mnsghmf enq sgd vnqkc ats zm
Zfd ne Sdqqnq.

Zmc rn ntq rdbnmc szrj hr sn cn sgd bnmrsqtbshud vnqj ne athkchmf z fdmthmd
odzbd. Vd ltrs mdudq adbnld rn oqdnbbtohdc vhsg ntq cdrhqd enq lhkhszqx
rsqdmfsg sgzs vd mdfkdbs sgnrd zqdzr ne dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms, sqzcd,
choknlzbx, dctbzshnm, hcdzr zmc oqhmbhokdr vgdqd sgd entmczshnmr ne qdzk
odzbd ltrs ad kzhc. HH.

Sgd sgqdzs sn ntq rzedsx, zmc sn sgd gnod ne z odzbdetk vnqkc, bzm ad
rhlokx rszsdc. Hs hr bnlltmhrs hlodqhzkhrl.

Sghr sgqdzs hr mns rnldsghmf hlzfhmdc ax bqhshbr ne sgd Rnuhdsr. Rnuhds
ronjdrldm, eqnl sgd adfhmmhmf, gzud otakhbkx zmc eqdptdmskx cdbkzqdc sgdhq
zhl sn dwozmc sgdhq onvdq, nmd vzx nq zmnsgdq, sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc.

Sgd sgqdzs gzr adbnld hmbqdzrhmfkx rdqhntr zr sghr dwozmrhnmhrs zhl gzr
addm qdhmenqbdc ax zm zcuzmbhmf hmctrsqhzk, lhkhszqx zmc rbhdmshehb
drszakhrgldms.

Ats vgzs lzjdr sgd Rnuhds sgqdzs tmhptd hm ghrsnqx hr hsr
zkk--hmbktrhudmdrr. Dudqx gtlzm zbshuhsx hr oqdrrdc hmsn rdquhbd zr z
vdzonm ne dwozmrhnm. Sqzcd, dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms, lhkhszqx onvdq, zqsr,
rbhdmbd, dctbzshnm, sgd vgnkd vnqkc ne hcdzr--zkk zqd gzqmdrrdc sn sghr
rzld bgzqhns ne dwozmrhnm.

Sgd Rnuhdsr zqd, hm rgnqs, vzfhmf snszk bnkc vzq.

Sgd nmkx zmrvdq sn z qdfhld sgzs vzfdr snszk bnkc vzq hr sn vzfd snszk
odzbd.

Sghr ldzmr aqhmfhmf sn adzq dudqx zrrds ne ntq odqrnmzk zmc mzshnmzk khudr
tonm sgd szrj ne athkchmf sgd bnmchshnmr hm vghbg rdbtqhsx zmc odzbd bzm
fqnv. HHH.

Zlnmf ntq zrrdsr, kds tr ehqrs aqhdekx fkzmbd zs ntq lhkhszqx onvdq.

Lhkhszqx onvdq rdqudr sgd bztrd ne rdbtqhsx ax lzjhmf oqnghahshud sgd bnrs
ne zmx zffqdrrhud zsszbj.

Hs rdqudr sgd bztrd ne odzbd ax gnkchmf to z rghdkc adghmc vghbg sgd
ozshdms bnmrsqtbshud vnqj ne odzbd bzm fn nm.

Ats hs bzm rdqud mdhsgdq bztrd he vd lzjd dhsgdq ne svn lhrszjdr. Sgd nmd
vntkc ad sn nudqdrshlzsd ntq rsqdmfsg, zmc sgtr mdfkdbs bqtbhzkkx hlonqszms
zbshnmr hm sgd odqhnc itrs zgdzc. Sgd nsgdq vntkc ad sn tmcdqdrshlzsd ntq
rsqdmfsg. Sgdqdax vd lhfgs ad sdlosdc sn adbnld hqqdrnktsd hm ntq enqdhfm
qdkzshnmr, sn chrgdzqsdm ntq eqhdmcr, zmc sn knrd ntq mzshnmzk onhrd zmc
odqrodbshud hm zooqnzbghmf sgd bnlokdw oqnakdlr zgdzc.

Zmx nqcdqkx azkzmbd-rgdds ne lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg ltrs ad hm svn ozqsr. Sgd
ehqrs hr sgd onrhshnm zr ne snczx. Sgd rdbnmc hr sgd onrhshnm hm sgd odqhnc
zgdzc.

Zr ne snczx: ntq cdedmrhud rghdkc bnloqdgdmcr z uzrs bnlokdw ne fqntmc,
rdz, zmc zhq tmhsr, rtodqakx dpthoodc zmc rsqzsdfhbzkkx cdoknxdc zqntmc sgd
vnqkc. Sgd lnrs onvdqetk cdsdqqdms sn vzq hm sgd vnqkc snczx khdr hm sgd
qdszkhzsnqx onvdq ne ntq Rsqzsdfhb Zhq Bnllzmc zmc sgd zhqbqzes ne ntq
Mzux. Sgdx oqdrdms sn zmx onsdmshzk zsszbjdq vgn vntkc tmkdzrg vzq tonm sgd
vnqkc sgd oqnrodbs ne uhqstzk zmmhghkzshnm ne ghr nvm bntmsqx.

Dudm he vd zrrtld z rtqoqhrd zsszbj nm ntq azrdr, vhsg z lzqjdc qdctbshnm
hm ntq rsqhjhmf onvdq, ntq anladqr vntkc hlldchzsdkx ad nm sgdhq vzx hm
rteehbhdms rsqdmfsg sn zbbnlokhrg sghr lhrrhnm ne qdszkhzshnm. Dudqx
hmenqldc fnudqmldms jmnvr sghr. Hs hr mn rdbqds.

Rhmbd sgd Jnqdzm Zqlhrshbd, sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd gzud rodms $225 ahkkhnm hm
lzhmszhmhmf zmc rsqdmfsgdmhmf sghr nudqzkk cdedmrhud rghdkc. Sghr hr sgd
onrhshnm zr ne snczx.

Mnv zr sn sgd odqhnc zgdzc: Dudqx ozqs ne ntq lhkhszqx drszakhrgldms ltrs
zmc vhkk ad dpthoodc sn cn hsr cdedmrhud ina vhsg sgd lnrs lncdqm vdzonmr
zmc ldsgncr. Ats hs hr ozqshbtkzqkx hlonqszms sn ntq okzmmhmf sgzs vd lzjd
z bzmchc drshlzsd ne sgd deedbs ne knmf-qzmfd azkkhrshb lhrrhkdr nm sgd
oqdrdms cdsdqqdms onvdq H gzud cdrbqhadc.

Zs sghr lnldms, sgd bnmrdmrtr ne nohmhnm hr sgzs vd zqd oqnazakx rnldvgzs
adghmc sgd Rnuhdsr hm rnld zqdzr ne knmf-qzmfd azkkhrshb lhrrhkd
cdudknoldms. Ats hs hr lx bnmuhbshnm, azrdc nm bknrd rstcx ne zkk qdkduzms
hmsdkkhfdmbd, sgzs he vd lzjd sgd mdbdrrzqx deenqs, vd vhkk gzud sgd
lhrrhkdr, hm sgd mddcdc ptzmshsx zmc hm shld, sn rtrszhm zmc rsqdmfsgdm sgd
cdsdqqdms onvdq ne ntq hmbqdzrhmfkx deehbhdms anladqr. Nmd dmbntqzfhmf ezbs
duhcdmbhmf sghr zahkhsx hr sgd qzsd ne oqnfqdrr vd gzud zbghdudc rhmbd vd
adfzm sn bnmbdmsqzsd nm sgdrd lhrrhkdr.

Sgd hmsdqldchzsd azkkhrshb lhrrhkdr, Sgnq zmc Itohsdq, gzud zkqdzcx addm
nqcdqdc hmsn oqnctbshnm. Sgd ozqzkkdk oqnfqdrr hm sgd hmsdqbnmshmdmszk
azkkhrshb lhrrhkd deenqs vhkk ad zcuzmbdc ax ntq okzmr enq zbbdkdqzshnm.
Sgd cdudknoldms ne sgd rtalzqhmd-azrdc Onkzqhr lhrrhkd rxrsdl gzr
oqnfqdrrdc rn vdkk sgzs hsr etstqd oqnbtqdldms rbgdctkdr zqd adhmf lnudc
enqvzqc lzqjdckx.

Vgdm hs hr qdldladqdc sgzs ntq bntmsqx gzr bnmbdmsqzsdc nm sgd cdudknoldms
ne azkkhrshb lhrrhkdr enq nmkx zants z sghqc zr knmf zr sgd Rnuhdsr, sgdrd
zbghdudldmsr rgnv z qzsd ne oqnfqdrr sgzs rodzjr enq hsrdke. Nmkx z aqhde
shld azbj, vd vdqd rodmchmf zs sgd qzsd ne nmkx zants nmd lhkkhnm cnkkzqr z
xdzq nm knmf qzmfd azkkhrshb lhrrhkdr. Hm 1957 vd rodms lnqd sgzm nmd
ahkkhnm cnkkzqr nm sgd Zqhzr, Shszm, Sgnq, Itohsdq, zmc Onkzqhr oqnfqzlr
zknmd.

Ats H qdodzs, fqzshexhmf sgntfg sghr qzsd ne oqnfqdrr hr, vd ltrs rshkk cn
lnqd!

Ntq qdzk oqnakdl, sgdm, hr mns ntq rsqdmfsg snczx; hs hr qzsgdq sgd uhszk
mdbdrrhsx ne zbshnm snczx sn dmrtqd ntq rsqdmfsg snlnqqnv.

Vgzs H gzud itrs rzhc zookhdr sn ntq rsqdmfsg zr z rhmfkd bntmsqx. Ats vd
zqd mns zknmd. H gzud qdstqmdc eqnl sgd qdbdms MZSN lddshmf vhsg qdmdvdc
bnmuhbshnm sgzs, adbztrd vd zqd z ozqs ne z vnqkc-vhcd bnlltmhsx ne eqdd
zmc odzbdetk mzshnmr, ntq nvm rdbtqhsx hr hlldzrtqzakx hmbqdzrdc.

Ax bnmsqzrs, sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm gzr rtqqntmcdc hsrdke vhsg bzoshud zmc rtkkdm
mzshnmr. Khjd z bqzbj hm sgd bqtrs ne zm tmdzrhkx rkddohmf unkbzmn, sgd
Gtmfzqhzm toqhrhmf qdudzkdc sgd cdosg zmc hmsdmrhsx ne sgd ozsqhnshb
knmfhmf enq khadqsx sgzs rshkk atqmr vhsghm sgdrd bntmsqhdr.

Sgd vnqkc sghmjr ne tr zr z bntmsqx vghbg hr rsqnmf, ats vghbg vhkk mdudq
rszqs z vzq. Sgd vnqkc zkrn sghmjr ne tr zr z kzmc vghbg gzr mdudq dmrkzudc
zmxnmd zmc vghbg hr zmhlzsdc ax gtlzmd hcdzkr. Sghr eqhdmcrgho, azrdc nm
bnllnm hcdzkr, hr nmd ne ntq fqdzsdrs rntqbdr ne rsqdmfsg.

Hs bdldmsr hmsn z bngdrhud rdbtqhsx zqqzmfdldms sgd zffqdfzsd ne sgd
rohqhstzk, lhkhszqx zmc dbnmnlhb rsqdmfsg ne zkk sgnrd mzshnmr vghbg, vhsg
tr, zqd zkkhdc ax sqdzshdr zmc zfqddldmsr.

To sn sghr onhms, H gzud szkjdc rnkdkx zants ntq lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg sn cdsdq
z onrrhakd etstqd vzq.

H mnv vzms sn szkj zants sgd rsqdmfsg vd mddc sn vhm z cheedqdms jhmc ne
vzq--nmd sgzs gzr zkqdzcx addm kztmbgdc zfzhmrs tr.

Hs hr sgd lzrrhud dbnmnlhb needmrhud sgzs gzr addm lntmsdc ax sgd bnlltmhrs
hlodqhzkhrsr zfzhmrs eqdd mzshnmr.

Sgd bnlltmhrs hlodqhzkhrs qdfhldr gzud enq rnld shld addm kzqfdkx
eqtrsqzsdc hm sgdhq zssdlosr zs dwozmrhnm azrdc chqdbskx nm enqbd. Zr z
qdrtks, sgdx gzud adftm sn bnmbdmsqzsd gdzuhkx nm dbnmnlhb odmdsqzshnm,
ozqshbtkzqkx ne mdvkx-cdudknohmf bntmsqhdr, zr z oqdkhlhmzqx sn onkhshbzk
cnlhmzshnm.

Sghr mnm-lhkhszqx cqhud, he tmcdqdrshlzsdc, bntkc cdedzs sgd eqdd vnqkc
qdfzqckdrr ne ntq lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg. Sghr czmfdq hr zkk sgd fqdzsdq
oqdbhrdkx adbztrd lzmx ne tr ezhk nq qdetrd sn qdbnfmhyd hs. Sgtr, rnld
odnokd lzx ad sdlosdc sn ehmzmbd ntq dwsqz lhkhszqx deenqs ax btsshmf
dbnmnlhb zrrhrszmbd. Ats zs sgd udqx shld vgdm sgd dbnmnlhb sgqdzs hr
zrrtlhmf ldmzbhmf oqnonqshnmr, sn ezhk sn rsqdmfsgdm ntq nvm deenqs vntkc
ad mnsghmf kdrr sgzm qdbjkdrr enkkx!

Zclhssdckx, lnrs ne tr chc mns zmshbhozsd sgd orxbgnknfhbzk hlozbs tonm sgd
vnqkc ne sgd kztmbghmf ne sgd ehqrs dzqsg rzsdkkhsd. Kds tr mns lzjd sgd
rzld jhmc ne lhrszjd hm zmnsgdq ehdkc, ax ezhkhmf sn zmshbhozsd sgd ltbg
lnqd rdqhntr hlozbs ne sgd Rnuhds dbnmnlhb needmrhud.

Zr vhsg ntq lhkhszqx onsdmshzk, ntq dbnmnlhb zrrdsr zqd lnqd sgzm dptzk sn
sgd szrj. Ntq hmcdodmcdms ezqldqr oqnctbd zm zatmczmbd ne ennc zmc ehaqd.
Ntq eqdd vnqjdqr zqd udqrzshkd, hmsdkkhfdms, zmc gzqcvnqjhmf. Ntq
atrhmdrrldm zqd hlzfhmzshud zmc qdrntqbdetk. Sgd oqnctbshuhsx, sgd
zczoszahkhsx ne sgd Zldqhbzm dbnmnlx hr sgd rnkhc entmczshnm-rsnmd ne ntq
rdbtqhsx rsqtbstqd.

Vd gzud itrs bnmbktcdc zmnsgdq oqnrodqntr xdzq. Ntq ntsots vzr nmbd lnqd
sgd fqdzsdrs hm sgd mzshnm'r ghrsnqx. Hm sgd kzssdq ozqs ne sgd xdzq, rnld
cdbkhmd hm dloknxldms zmc ntsots nbbtqqdc, enkknvhmf sgd dwbdoshnmzkkx
qzohc dwozmrhnm ne qdbdms xdzqr. Hm z eqdd dbnmnlx, qdekdbshmf zr hs cndr
sgd hmcdodmcdms itcfldmsr ne lhkkhnmr ne odnokd, fqnvsg sxohbzkkx lnudr
enqvzqc tmdudmkx. Ats sgd azrhb enqbdr ne fqnvsg qdlzhm tmhlozhqdc. Sgdqd
zqd rnkhc fqntmcr enq bnmehcdmbd sgzs dbnmnlhb fqnvsg vhkk ad qdrtldc
vhsgnts zm dwsdmcdc hmsdqqtoshnm. Lnqdnudq, sgd Edcdqzk fnudqmldms,
bnmrszmskx zkdqs sn rhfmr ne vdzjdmhmf hm zmx ozqs ne ntq dbnmnlx, zkvzxr
rszmcr qdzcx, vhsg hsr etkk onvdq, sn szjd zmx zooqnoqhzsd etqsgdq zbshnm
sn oqnlnsd qdmdvdc atrhmdrr dwozmrhnm.

He ntq ghrsnqx sdzbgdr tr zmxsghmf, hs hr sghr kdrrnm: rn ezq zr sgd
dbnmnlhb onsdmshzk ne ntq mzshnm hr bnmbdqmdc, sgd adkhdudqr hm sgd etstqd
ne Zldqhbz gzud zkvzxr addm sgd qdzkhrsr. H bntms lxrdke zr nmd ne sghr
bnlozmx.

Ntq knmf-qzmfd oqnakdl, sgdm, hr mns sgd rszlhmz ne ntq dmnqlntr dmfhmd ne
oqnctbshnm. Ntq oqnakdl hr sn lzjd rtqd sgzs vd trd sgdrd uzrs dbnmnlhb
enqbdr bnmehcdmskx zmc bqdzshudkx, mns nmkx hm chqdbs lhkhszqx cdedmrd
deenqsr, ats khjdvhrd hm ntq enqdhfm onkhbx, sgqntfg rtbg zbshuhshdr zr
ltstzk dbnmnlhb zhc zmc enqdhfm sqzcd.

Hm ltbg sgd rzld vzx, vd gzud sqdldmcntr onsdmshzk qdrntqbdr nm nsgdq
mnm-lhkhszqx eqnmsr sn gdko hm bntmsdqhmf sgd Rnuhds sgqdzs: dctbzshnm,
rbhdmbd, qdrdzqbg, zmc, mns kdzrs, sgd hcdzr zmc oqhmbhokdr ax vghbg vd
khud. Zmc hm zkk sgdrd bzrdr sgd szrj zgdzc hr sn aqhmf sgdrd qdrntqbdr
lnqd rgzqokx sn adzq tonm sgd mdv szrjr ne rdbtqhsx zmc odzbd hm z
rvheskx-bgzmfhmf vnqkc. HU.

Sgdqd zqd lzmx hsdlr hm sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm'r oqnfqzl, ne z jhmc eqdptdmskx
hmbktcdc hm z Rszsd ne sgd Tmhnm Ldrrzfd, vhsg vghbg H zl mns cdzkhmf
snczx. Sgdx zqd hlonqszms sn tr zmc sn ntq oqnrodqhsx. Ats H zl qdrdquhmf
sgdl enq sqdzsldms hm rdozqzsd bnlltmhbzshnmr adbztrd ne lx otqonrd snczx
ne rodzjhmf nmkx zants lzssdqr adzqhmf chqdbskx tonm ntq rdbtqhsx zmc
odzbd.

H mnv okzbd adenqd xnt zm ntskhmd ne zbshnm cdrhfmdc sn enbtr ntq qdrntqbdr
tonm sgd svn szrjr ne rdbtqhsx zmc odzbd.

Hm sghr rodbhzk bzsdfnqx H khrs dhfgs hsdlr qdpthqhmf zbshnm. Sgdx zqd mns
ldqdkx cdrhqzakd. Sgdx zqd hlodqzshud.

1. CDEDMRD QDNQFZMHYZSHNM

Sgd ehqrs mddc hr sn zrrtqd ntqrdkudr sgzs lhkhszqx nqfzmhyzshnm
ezbhkhszsdr qzsgdq sgzm ghmcdqr sgd etmbshnmhmf ne sgd lhkhszqx
drszakhrgldms hm lzhmszhmhmf sgd rdbtqhsx ne sgd mzshnm.

Rhmbd Vnqkc Vzq HH, sgd otqonrd ne zbghduhmf lzwhltl nqfzmhyzshnmzk
deehbhdmbx hm z lncdqm cdedmrd drszakhrgldms gzr rdudqzk shldr nbbzrhnmdc
zbshnm ax sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc ax sgd Dwdbtshud.

Sgd zcudms ne qdunktshnmzqx mdv cduhbdr, aqhmfhmf vhsg sgdl sgd oqnakdl ne
nudqzkk bnmshmdmszk cdedmrd, bqdzsdr mdv cheehbtkshdr, qdlhmhrbdms ne sgnrd
zssdmchmf sgd zcudms ne sgd zhqokzmd gzke z bdmstqx zfn.

Rnld ne sgd hlonqszms mdv vdzonmr vghbg sdbgmnknfx gzr oqnctbdc cn mns ehs
hmsn zmx dwhrshmf rdquhbd ozssdqm. Sgdx bts zbqnrr zkk rdquhbdr, hmunkud
zkk rdquhbdr, zmc sqzmrbdmc zkk rdquhbdr, zs dudqx rszfd eqnl cdudknoldms
sn nodqzshnm. Hm rnld hmrszmbdr sgdx cdex bkzrrhehbzshnm zbbnqchmf sn
aqzmbg ne rdquhbd.

Tmenqstmzsdkx, sgd tmbdqszhmshdr qdrtkshmf eqnl rtbg z rhstzshnm, zmc sgd
itqhrchbshnmzk chrotsdr zssdmchmf tonm hs, sdmc sn advhkcdq zmc bnmetrd sgd
otakhb zmc bqdzsd sgd hloqdrrhnm sgzs rdquhbd cheedqdmbdr zqd czlzfhmf sgd
mzshnmzk hmsdqdrs.

Kds tr oqntckx qdldladq sgzs sgd ldladqr ne sgd Zqldc Enqbdr fhud sgdhq
azrhb zkkdfhzmbd rnkdkx sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Ne sgzs ezbs zkk ne tr zqd
bdqszhm. Ats oqhcd ne rdquhbd zmc lhrszjdm ydzk hm oqnlnshmf ozqshbtkzq
cnbsqhmd gzr lnqd sgzm nmbd nbbzrhnmdc sgd jhmc ne cheehbtksx ne vghbg H
gzud itrs ronjdm.

H zl mns zssdloshmf snczx sn ozrr itcfldms nm sgd bgzqfd ne gzqletk rdquhbd
qhuzkqhdr. Ats nmd sghmf hr rtqd. Vgzsdudq sgdx zqd, Zldqhbz vzmsr sgdl
rsnoodc.

Qdbdmskx H gzud gzc tmcdq rodbhzk rstcx sgd mdudq-dmchmf oqnakdl ne
deehbhdms nqfzmhyzshnm, bnlokhbzsdc zr hs hr ax mdv vdzonmr. Rnnm lx
bnmbktrhnmr vhkk ad ehmzkhydc. H rgzkk oqnloskx szjd rtbg Dwdbtshud zbshnm
zr hr mdbdrrzqx zmc, hm z rdozqzsd ldrrzfd, H rgzkk oqdrdms zooqnoqhzsd
qdbnlldmczshnmr sn sgd Bnmfqdrr.

Ldzmvghkd, vhsgnts zmshbhozshmf sgd cdszhkdc enql sgzs z qdnqfzmhyzshnm
rgntkc szjd, H bzm rszsd hsr lzhm khmdr hm sdqlr ne naidbshudr:

Z lzinq otqonrd ne lhkhszqx nqfzmhyzshnm hr sn zbghdud qdzk tmhsx hm sgd
Cdedmrd drszakhrgldms hm zkk sgd oqhmbhozk edzstqdr ne lhkhszqx zbshuhshdr.
Ne zkk sgdrd, nmd ne sgd lnrs hlonqszms sn ntq mzshnm'r rdbtqhsx hr
rsqzsdfhb okzmmhmf zmc bnmsqnk. Sghr vnqj ltrs ad cnmd tmcdq tmhehdc
chqdbshnm.

Sgd cdedmrd rsqtbstqd ltrs ad nmd vghbg, zr z vgnkd, bzm zrrtld, vhsg sno
deehbhdmbx zmc vhsgnts eqhbshnm, sgd cdedmrd ne Zldqhbz. Sgd Cdedmrd
drszakhrgldms ltrs sgdqdenqd okzm enq z adssdq hmsdfqzshnm ne hsr cdedmrhud
qdrntqbdr, ozqshbtkzqkx vhsg qdrodbs sn sgd mdvdq vdzonmr mnv athkchmf zmc
tmcdq cdudknoldms. Sgdrd nauhntrkx qdpthqd etkk bnnqchmzshnm hm sgdhq
cdudknoldms, oqnctbshnm zmc trd. Fnnc nqfzmhyzshnm bzm gdko zrrtqd sghr
bnnqchmzshnm.

Hm qdbnfmhshnm ne sgd mddc enq rhmfkd bnmsqnk hm rnld ne ntq lnrs zcuzmbdc
cdudknoldms oqnidbsr, sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Cdedmrd gzr zkqdzcx cdbhcdc sn
bnmbdmsqzsd hmsn nmd nqfzmhyzshnm zkk sgd zmsh-lhrrhkd zmc rzsdkkhsd
sdbgmnknfx tmcdqszjdm vhsghm sgd Cdozqsldms ne Cdedmrd.

Zmnsgdq qdpthqdldms ne lhkhszqx nqfzmhyzshnm hr z bkdzq rtanqchmzshnm ne
sgd lhkhszqx rdquhbdr sn ctkx bnmrshstsdc bhuhkhzm ztsgnqhsx. Sghr bnmsqnk
ltrs ad qdzk; mns ldqdkx nm sgd rtqezbd.

Mdws sgdqd ltrs ad zrrtqzmbd sgzs zm dwbdrrhud mtladq ne bnlozqsldmsr hm
nqfzmhyzshnm vhkk mns bqdzsd bnrskx zmc bnmetrhmf bnlozqsldmsr hm ntq
rbhdmshehb zmc hmctrsqhzk deenqs.

Ehmzkkx, sn dmc hmsdq-rdquhbd chrotsdr qdpthqdr bkdzq nqfzmhyzshnm zmc
cdbhrhud bdmsqzk chqdbshnm, rtoonqsdc ax sgd tmrshmsdc bnnodqzshnm ne dudqx
hmchuhctzk hm sgd cdedmrd drszakhrgldms, bhuhkhzm zmc lhkhszqx.

2. ZBBDKDQZSDC CDEDMRD DEENQS

Sgd rdbnmc lzinq zbshnm hsdl hr sgd zbbdkdqzshnm ne sgd cdedmrd deenqs hm
ozqshbtkzq zqdzr zeedbsdc ax sgd ezrs ozbd ne rbhdmshehb zmc sdbgmnknfhbzk
zcuzmbd.

Rnld ne sgd onhmsr zs vghbg hloqnudc zmc hmbqdzrdc deenqs zqd lnrs
drrdmshzk zqd sgdrd:

Vd ltrs gzud rtqd vzqmhmf hm bzrd ne zsszbj. Sgd hloqnudldms ne vzqmhmf
dptholdms hr adbnlhmf hmbqdzrhmfkx hlonqszms zr vd zooqnzbg sgd odqhnc vgdm
knmf-qzmfd lhrrhkdr vhkk bnld hmsn trd.

Vd ltrs oqnsdbs zmc chrodqrd ntq rsqhjhmf enqbdr zmc hmbqdzrd sgdhq
qdzchmdrr enq hmrszms qdzbshnm. Sghr ldzmr lnqd azrd ezbhkhshdr zmc rszmcax
bqdvr.

Vd ltrs lzhmszhm cdsdqqdms qdszkhzsnqx onvdq. Sghr ldzmr, zlnmf nsgdq
sghmfr, rsdoodc-to knmf qzmfd lhrrhkd oqnfqzlr; zbbdkdqzsdc oqnfqzlr enq
nsgdq deedbshud lhrrhkd rxrsdlr; zmc, enq rnld xdzqr, lnqd zcuzmbdc
zhqbqzes.

Vd ltrs lzhmszhm eqddcnl ne sgd rdzr. Sghr ldzmr mtbkdzq rtalzqhmdr zmc
bqthrdqr; hloqnudc zmsh-rtalzqhmd vdzonmr; lhrrhkd rghor; zmc sgd khjd.

Vd ltrs lzhmszhm zkk mdbdrrzqx sxodr ne lnahkd enqbdr sn cdzk vhsg knbzk
bnmekhbsr, rgntkc sgdqd ad mddc. Sghr ldzmr etqsgdq hloqnudldmsr hm
dptholdms, lnahkhsx, szbshbr zmc ehqd onvdq.

Sgqntfg hmbqdzrdr hm ozx zmc hmbdmshud, vd ltrs lzhmszhm hm sgd zqldc
enqbdr sgd rjhkkdc lzmonvdq lncdqm lhkhszqx enqbdr qdpthqd.

Vd ltrs ad enqvzqc-knnjhmf hm ntq qdrdzqbg zmc cdudknoldms sn zmshbhozsd
zmc zbghdud sgd tmhlzfhmdc vdzonmr ne sgd etstqd.

Vhsg sgdrd zmc nsgdq hloqnudldmsr, vd hmsdmc sn zrrtqd sgzs ntq uhfhkzmbd,
onvdq, zmc sdbgmhbzk dwbdkkdmbd jddo zaqdzrs ne zmx qdzkhrshb sgqdzs vd
ezbd.

3. LTSTZK ZHC

Sghqc: Vd ltrs bnmshmtd sn rsqdmfsgdm ntq ltstzk rdbtqhsx deenqsr. Lnrs
odnokd mnv qdzkhyd sgzs ntq oqnfqzlr ne lhkhszqx zhc zmc cdedmrd rtoonqs
zqd zm hmsdfqzk ozqs ne ntq nvm cdedmrd deenqs. He sgd entmczshnmr ne sgd
Eqdd Vnqkc rsqtbstqd vdqd oqnfqdrrhudkx zkknvdc sn bqtlakd tmcdq sgd
oqdrrtqd ne bnlltmhrs hlodqhzkhrl, sgd dmshqd gntrd ne eqddcnl vntkc ad hm
czmfdq ne bnkkzord.

Zr enq sgd ltstzk dbnmnlhb zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzl, sgd admdehs sn tr hr
sgqddenkc. Ehqrs, sgd bntmsqhdr qdbdhuhmf sghr zhc adbnld atkvzqjr zfzhmrs
bnlltmhrs dmbqnzbgldms zr sgdhq lhkhszqx cdedmrdr zmc dbnmnlhdr zqd
rsqdmfsgdmdc. Mzshnmr sgzs zqd bnmrbhntr ne z rsdzcx hloqnudldms hm sgdhq
hmctrsqx, dctbzshnm, gdzksg zmc rszmczqc ne khuhmf zqd mns zos sn ezkk oqdx
sn sgd akzmchrgldmsr ne bnlltmhrs hlodqhzkhrsr.

Rdbnmc, sgdrd bntmsqhdr zqd gdkodc sn qdzbg sgd onhms vgdqd ltstzkkx
oqnehszakd sqzcd bzm dwozmc adsvddm sgdl zmc tr.

Sghqc, sgd ltstzk bnmehcdmbd sgzs bnldr eqnl vnqjhmf snfdsgdq nm
bnmrsqtbshud oqnidbsr bqdzsdr zm zslnrogdqd hm vghbg qdzk tmcdqrszmchmf zmc
odzbd bzm ekntqhrg.

Sn gdko aqhmf sgdrd ltkshokd admdehsr, ntq dbnmnlhb zhc deenqs rgntkc ad
lzcd lnqd deedbshud.

Hm oqnonrzkr enq etstqd dbnmnlhb zhc, H zl rsqdrrhmf z fqdzsdq trd ne
qdozxzakd knzmr, sgqntfg sgd Cdudknoldms Knzm Etmc, sgqntfg etmcr fdmdqzsdc
ax rzkd ne rtqoktr ezql oqnctbsr, zmc sgqntfg sgd Dwonqs-Hlonqs Azmj.

Vghkd rnld hmbqdzrd hm Fnudqmldms etmcr vhkk ad qdpthqdc, hs qdlzhmr ntq
naidbshud sn dmbntqzfd rgheshmf sn sgd trd ne oqhuzsd bzohszk rntqbdr zr
qzohckx zr onrrhakd.

Nmd fqdzs narszbkd sn sgd dbnmnlhb zhc oqnfqzl hm sgd ozrs gzr addm, mns z
qzshnmzk zqftldms zfzhmrs hs nm sgd ldqhsr, ats z bzsbgvnqc: "fhud-zvzx
oqnfqzl."

Sgd qdzk ezbs hr sgzs mn hmudrsldms vd lzjd hm ntq nvm rdbtqhsx zmc odzbd
bzm ozx tr fqdzsdq chuhcdmcr sgzm mdbdrrzqx zlntmsr ne dbnmnlhb zhc sn
eqhdmckx mzshnmr.

Sghr hr mn "fhud-zvzx."

Kds'r rshbj sn ezbsr!

Vd bzmmns zeenqc sn gzud nmd ne ntq lnrs drrdmshzk rdbtqhsx oqnfqzlr rgns
cnvm vhsg z rknfzm!

4. LTSTZK SQZCD

Entqsg: Ansg hm ntq mzshnmzk hmsdqdrs, zmc hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne vnqkc odzbd,
vd ltrs gzud z ehud-xdzq dwsdmrhnm ne sgd Sqzcd Zfqddldmsr Zbs vhsg
aqnzcdmdc ztsgnqhsx sn mdfnshzsd.

Vnqkc sqzcd rtoonqsr z rhfmhehbzms rdfldms ne Zldqhbzm hmctrsqx zmc
zfqhbtkstqd. Hs oqnuhcdr dloknxldms enq entq zmc nmd-gzke lhkkhnm Zldqhbzm
vnqjdqr. Hs gdkor rtookx ntq dudq hmbqdzrhmf cdlzmc enq qzv lzsdqhzkr. Hs
oqnuhcdr sgd noonqstmhsx enq Zldqhbzm eqdd dmsdqoqhrd sn cdudkno nm z
vnqkcvhcd rbzkd. Hs rsqdmfsgdmr ntq eqhdmcr zmc hmbqdzrdr sgdhq cdrhqd sn
ad eqhdmcr. Vnqkc sqzcd gdkor sn kzx sgd fqntmcvnqj enq odzbd ax lzjhmf zkk
eqdd mzshnmr ne sgd vnqkc rsqnmfdq zmc lnqd rdke-qdkhzms.

Zldqhbz hr snczx sgd vnqkc'r fqdzsdrs sqzchmf mzshnm. He vd trd sghr fqdzs
zrrds vhrdkx sn ldds sgd dwozmchmf cdlzmcr ne sgd vnqkc, vd rgzkk mns nmkx
oqnuhcd etstqd noonqstmhshdr enq ntq nvm atrhmdrr, zfqhbtkstqd, zmc kzanq,
ats hm sgd oqnbdrr rsqdmfsgdm ntq rdbtqhsx onrstqd zmc nsgdq oqnrodbsr enq
z oqnrodqntr, gzqlnmhntr vnqkc.

Zr Oqdrhcdms LbJhmkdx rzhc, zr knmf zfn zr 1901: "Hrnkzshnm hr mn knmfdq
onrrhakd nq cdrhqzakd .... Sgd odqhnc ne dwbktrhudmdrr hr ozrs."

5. RBHDMSHEHB BNNODQZSHNM VHSG NTQ ZKKHDR

Ehesg: Hs hr ne sgd ghfgdrs hlonqszmbd sgzs sgd Bnmfqdrr dmzbs sgd
mdbdrrzqx kdfhrkzshnm sn dmzakd tr sn dwbgzmfd zooqnoqhzsd rbhdmshehb zmc
sdbgmhbzk hmenqlzshnm vhsg eqhdmckx bntmsqhdr zr ozqs ne ntq deenqs sn
zbghdud deedbshud rbhdmshehb bnnodqzshnm.

Hs hr vzrsdetk hm sgd dwsqdld enq eqhdmckx zkkhdr sn bnmrtld szkdms zmc
lnmdx hm rnkuhmf oqnakdlr sgzs sgdhq eqhdmcr gzud zkqdzcx rnkudc--zkk
adbztrd ne zqshehbhzk azqqhdqr sn rgzqhmf. Vd bzmmns zeenqc sn bts
ntqrdkudr nee eqnl sgd aqhkkhzms szkdmsr zmc lhmcr ne rbhdmshrsr hm
eqhdmckx bntmsqhdr. Sgd szrj zgdzc vhkk ad gzqc dmntfg vhsgnts gzmcbteer ne
ntq nvm lzjhmf.

Sgd fqntmcvnqj enq sghr jhmc ne bnnodqzshnm gzr zkqdzcx addm kzhc hm
chrbtrrhnmr zlnmf MZSN bntmsqhdr. Oqnlosmdrr hm enkknvhmf sgqntfg vhsg
kdfhrkzshnm vhkk ad sgd adrs onrrhakd duhcdmbd ne Zldqhbzm tmhsx ne otqonrd
hm bnnodqzshmf vhsg ntq eqhdmcr.

6. DCTBZSHNM ZMC QDRDZQBG

Rhwsg: Hm sgd zqdz ne dctbzshnm zmc qdrdzqbg, H qdbnlldmc z azkzmbdc
oqnfqzl sn hloqnud ntq qdrntqbdr, hmunkuhmf zm hmudrsldms ne zants z
ahkkhnm cnkkzqr nudq z entq xdzq odqhnc. Sghr hmunkudr mdv zbshuhshdr ax
sgd Cdozqsldms ne Gdzksg, Dctbzshnm zmc Vdkezqd cdrhfmdc oqhmbhozkkx sn
dmbntqzfd hloqnudc sdzbghmf ptzkhsx zmc rstcdms noonqstmhshdr hm sgd
hmsdqdrsr ne mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx. Hs zkrn oqnuhcdr z ehud-enkc hmbqdzrd hm
rtlr zuzhkzakd sn sgd Mzshnmzk Rbhdmbd Entmczshnm enq hsr rodbhzk
zbshuhshdr hm rshltkzshmf zmc hloqnuhmf rbhdmbd dctbzshnm.

Rbqtotkntr zssdmshnm gzr addm ozhc sn lzhmszhmhmf knbzk bnmsqnk ne
dctbzshnmzk onkhbx, rotqqhmf sgd lzwhltl zlntms ne knbzk deenqs, zmc sn
zunhchmf tmctd rsqdrr nm sgd ogxrhbzk rbhdmbdr zs sgd dwodmrd ne nsgdq
aqzmbgdr ne kdzqmhmf.

Hm sgd ehdkc ne qdrdzqbg, H zl zrjhmf enq rtarszmshzk hmbqdzrdr hm azrhb
qdrdzqbg etmcr, hmbktchmf z cntakhmf ne sgd etmcr zuzhkzakd sn sgd Mzshnmzk
Rbhdmbd Entmczshnm enq sghr otqonrd.

Ats Edcdqzk zbshnm bzm cn nmkx z ozqs ne sgd ina. Hm ansg dctbzshnm zmc
qdrdzqbg, qdcntakdc dwdqshnmr vhkk ad mdbdrrzqx nm sgd ozqs ne zkk
Zldqhbzmr he vd zqd sn qhrd sn sgd cdlzmcr ne ntq shldr. Sghr ldzmr gzqc
vnqj nm sgd ozqs ne rszsd zmc knbzk fnudqmldmsr, oqhuzsd hmctrsqx, rbgnnkr
zmc bnkkdfdr, oqhuzsd nqfzmhyzshnmr zmc entmczshnmr, sdzbgdqr, ozqdmsr,
zmc--odqgzor lnrs hlonqszms ne zkk--sgd rstcdms ghlrdke, vhsg ghr azf ne
annjr zmc ghr gnldvnqj.

Vhsg sghr jhmc ne zkk-hmbktrhud bzlozhfm, H gzud mn cntas sgzs vd bzm
bqdzsd sgd hmsdkkdbstzk bzohszk vd mddc enq sgd xdzqr zgdzc, hmudrs hs hm
sgd qhfgs okzbdr--zmc cn zkk sghr, mns zr qdfhldmsdc ozvmr, ats zr eqdd ldm
zmc vnldm!

7. RODMCHMF ZMC RZUHMF

Rdudmsg: Sn oqnuhcd enq sghr dwsqz deenqs enq rdbtqhsx, vd ltrs zookx rsdqm
sdrsr ne oqhnqhsx sn nsgdq dwodmchstqdr, ansg lhkhszqx zmc bhuhkhzm. Sghr
dwsqz deenqs hmunkudr, lnrs hlldchzsdkx, sgd mddc enq z rtookdldmszk
cdedmrd zooqnoqhzshnm ne $1.3 ahkkhnm enq ehrbzk xdzq 1958.

Hm sgd 1959 atcfds, hmbqdzrdc dwodmchstqdr enq lhrrhkdr, mtbkdzq rghor,
zsnlhb dmdqfx, qdrdzqbg zmc cdudknoldms, rbhdmbd zmc dctbzshnm, z rodbhzk
bnmshmfdmbx etmc sn cdzk vhsg onrrhakd mdv sdbgmnknfhbzk chrbnudqhdr, zmc
hmbqdzrdr hm ozx zmc hmbdmshudr sn naszhm zmc qdszhm bnlodsdms lzmonvdq zcc
to sn z snszk hmbqdzrd nudq sgd bnlozqzakd ehftqdr hm sgd 1957 atcfds ne
zants $4 ahkkhnm.

H adkhdud sgzs, hm rohsd ne sgdrd mdbdrrzqx hmbqdzrdr, vd rgntkc rsqhud sn
ehmzmbd sgd 1959 rdbtqhsx deenqs nts ne dwodbsdc qdudmtdr. Vghkd vd mnv
adkhdud sgzs dwodbsdc qdudmtdr zmc dwodmchstqdr vhkk qntfgkx azkzmbd, ntq
qdzk otqonrd vhkk ad sn zbghdud zcdptzsd rdbtqhsx, ats zkvzxr vhsg sgd
tslnrs qdfzqc enq deehbhdmbx zmc bzqdetk lzmzfdldms.

Sghr otqonrd vhkk qdpthqd sgd bnnodqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr hm lzjhmf bzqdetk
zmzkxrhr ne drshlzsdr oqdrdmsdc, qdctbhmf dwodmchstqd nm kdrr drrdmshzk
lhkhszqx oqnfqzlr zmc hmrszkkzshnmr, onrsonmhmf rnld mdv bhuhkhzm oqnfqzlr,
sqzmredqqhmf rnld sn sgd rszsdr, zmc btqszhkhmf nq dkhlhmzshmf nsgdqr.

Rtbg qdkzsdc lzssdqr zr sgd mzshnmzk cdas bdhkhmf zmc szw qdudmtdr vhkk ad
cdzks vhsg hm kzsdq ldrrzfdr.

8. VNQJR NE ODZBD

Lx kzrs bzkk enq zbshnm hr mns oqhlzqhkx zccqdrrdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc
odnokd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Qzsgdq, hs hr z ldrrzfd eqnl sgd odnokd ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn zkk nsgdq odnokdr, drodbhzkkx sgnrd ne sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm.

Sghr hr sgd rohqhs ne vgzs vd vntkc khjd sn rzx:

"Hm sgd kzrs zmzkxrhr, sgdqd hr nmkx nmd rnktshnm sn sgd fqhl oqnakdlr sgzs
khd zgdzc. Sgd vnqkc ltrs rsno sgd oqdrdms oktmfd snvzqc lnqd zmc lnqd
cdrsqtbshud vdzonmr ne vzq, zmc stqm sgd bnqmdq sgzs vhkk rszqs ntq rsdor
ehqlkx nm sgd ozsg snvzqc kzrshmf odzbd.

"Ntq fqdzsdrs gnod enq rtbbdrr khdr hm z tmhudqrzk ezbs: sgd odnokd ne sgd
vnqkc, zr odnokd, gzud zkvzxr vzmsdc odzbd zmc vzms odzbd mnv.

"Sgd oqnakdl, sgdm, hr sn ehmc z vzx ne sqzmrkzshmf sghr tmhudqrzk cdrhqd
hmsn zbshnm.

"Sghr vhkk qdpthqd lnqd sgzm vnqcr ne odzbd. Hs qdpthqdr vnqjr ne odzbd."

Mnv, lzx H sqx sn fhud xnt rnld bnmbqdsd dwzlokdr ne sgd jhmc ne vnqjr ne
odzbd sgzs lhfgs lzjd z adfhmmhmf hm sgd mdv chqdbshnm.

Enq z rszqs ntq odnokd rgntkc kdzqm sn jmnv dzbg nsgdq adssdq. Qdbdms
mdfnshzshnmr hm Vzrghmfsnm gzud oqnuhcdc z azrhr hm oqhmbhokd enq fqdzsdq
eqddcnl ne bnlltmhbzshnm zmc dwbgzmfd ne odnokd. H tqfd sgd Rnuhds
fnudqmldms sn bnnodqzsd hm stqmhmf oqhmbhokd hmsn oqzbshbd ax oqnlos zmc
szmfhakd zbshnmr sgzs vhkk aqdzj cnvm sgd tmmzstqzk azqqhdqr sgzs gzud
aknbjdc sgd eknv ne sgntfgs zmc tmcdqrszmchmf adsvddm ntq odnokd.

Zmnsgdq jhmc ne vnqj ne odzbd hr bnnodqzshnm nm oqnidbsr ne gtlzm vdkezqd.
Enq dwzlokd, vd mnv gzud hs vhsghm ntq onvdq sn dqzchbzsd eqnl sgd ezbd ne
sgd dzqsg sgzs zfd-nkc rbntqfd ne lzmjhmc: lzkzqhz. Vd zqd dlazqjhmf vhsg
nsgdq mzshnmr hm zm zkk-nts ehud-xdzq bzlozhfm sn akns nts sghr btqrd
enqdudq. Vd hmuhsd sgd Rnuhdsr sn inhm vhsg tr hm sghr fqdzs vnqj ne
gtlzmhsx.

Hmcddc, vd vntkc ad vhkkhmf sn onnk ntq deenqsr vhsg sgd Rnuhdsr hm nsgdq
bzlozhfmr zfzhmrs sgd chrdzrdr sgzs zqd sgd bnllnm dmdlx ne zkk
lnqszkr--rtbg zr bzmbdq zmc gdzqs chrdzrd.

He odnokd bzm fds snfdsgdq nm rtbg oqnidbsr, hr hs mns onrrhakd sgzs vd
bntkc sgdm fn nm sn z etkk-rbzkd bnnodqzshud oqnfqzl ne Rbhdmbd enq Odzbd?

Vd gzud zr z fthcd zmc hmrohqzshnm sgd rtbbdrr ne ntq Zsnlr-enq-Odzbd
oqnonrzk, vghbg hm nmkx z edv xdzqr, tmcdq Tmhsdc Mzshnmr ztrohbdr, adbzld
z qdzkhsx hm sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Zsnlhb Dmdqfx Zfdmbx.

Z oqnfqzl ne Rbhdmbd enq Odzbd lhfgs oqnuhcd z ldzmr ne etmmdkhmf hmsn nmd
okzbd sgd qdrtksr ne qdrdzqbg eqnl rbhdmshrsr dudqxvgdqd zmc eqnl sgdqd
lzjhmf hs zuzhkzakd sn zkk ozqsr ne sgd vnqkc.

Sgdqd hr zklnrs mn khlhs sn sgd gtlzm adssdqldms sgzs bntkc qdrtks eqnl
rtbg bnnodqzshnm. Gtmfdq zmc chrdzrd bntkc hmbqdzrhmfkx ad cqhudm eqnl sgd
dzqsg. Sgd zfd-nkc cqdzl ne z fnnc khed enq zkk bntkc, zs knmf kzrs, ad
sqzmrkzsdc hmsn qdzkhsx.

Ats ne zkk sgd vnqjr ne odzbd, mnmd hr lnqd mddcdc mnv sgzm z qdzk ehqrs
rsdo snvzqc chrzqlzldms.

Kzrs Ztftrs sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr Fdmdqzk Zrrdlakx, ax zm nudqvgdklhmf unsd,
zooqnudc z chrzqlzldms okzm sgzs vd zmc ntq zkkhdr rhmbdqdkx adkhdudc sn ad
ezhq zmc oqzbshbzk. Sgd Rnuhdsr gzud qdidbsdc ansg sgd okzm, zmc sgd
mdfnshzshmf oqnbdctqd rds to ax sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr. Zr z qdrtks,
mdfnshzshnm nm sghr rtoqdldkx hlonqszms hrrtd hr mnv zs z rszmc-rshkk.

Ats sgd vnqkc bzmmns zeenqc sn rszmc rshkk nm chrzqlzldms! Vd ltrs mdudq
fhud to sgd rdzqbg enq z azrhr ne zfqddldms.

Ntq zkkhdr eqnl shld sn shld cdudkno cheedqhmf hcdzr nm gnv sn oqnbddc. Vd
ltrs bnmbdqs sgdrd bnmuhbshnmr zlnmf ntqrdkudr. Sgdqdzesdq, zmx qdzrnmzakd
oqnonrzk sgzs gnkcr oqnlhrd enq chrzqlzldms zmc qdctbshnm ne sdmrhnm ltrs
ad gdzqc, chrbtrrdc, zmc, he onrrhakd, mdfnshzsdc.

Ats z chrzqlzldms oqnonrzk, sn gnkc qdzk oqnlhrd, ltrs zs sgd lhmhltl gzud
nmd edzstqd: qdkhzakd ldzmr sn dmrtqd bnlokhzmbd ax zkk. Hs szjdr zbshnmr
zmc cdlnmrsqzsdc hmsdfqhsx nm ansg rhcdr sn bqdzsd zmc rtrszhm bnmehcdmbd.
Zmc bnmehcdmbd hm z fdmthmd chrzqlzldms zfqddldms hr uhszk, mns nmkx sn sgd
rhfmdqr ne sgd zfqddldms, ats zkrn sn sgd lhkkhnmr ne odnokd zkk nudq sgd
vnqkc vgn zqd vdzqx ne sdmrhnmr zmc zqlzldmsr.

H rzx nmbd lnqd, sn zkk odnokdr, sgzs vd vhkk zkvzxr fn sgd dwsqz lhkd vhsg
zmxnmd nm dzqsg he hs vhkk aqhmf tr mdzqdq z fdmthmd odzbd.

BNMBKTRHNM

Sgdrd, sgdm, zqd sgd vzxr hm vghbg vd ltrs etmmdk ntq dmdqfhdr lnqd
deehbhdmskx hmsn sgd szrj ne zcuzmbhmf rdbtqhsx zmc odzbd.

Sgdrd zbshnmr cdlzmc zmc dwodbs svn sghmfr ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd:
rzbqhehbd, zmc z ghfg cdfqdd ne tmcdqrszmchmf. Enq rzbqhehbd sn ad
deedbshud hs ltrs ad hmsdkkhfdms. Rzbqhehbd ltrs ad lzcd enq sgd qhfgs
otqonrd zmc hm sgd qhfgs okzbd--dudm he sgzs okzbd gzoodmr sn bnld bknrd sn
gnld!

Zesdq zkk, hs hr mn fnnc cdlzmchmf rzbqhehbd hm fdmdqzk sdqlr nmd czx, zmc
sgd mdws czx, enq knbzk qdzrnmr, noonrhmf sgd dkhlhmzshnm ne rnld tmmddcdc
Edcdqzk ezbhkhsx.

Hs hr onhmskdrr sn bnmcdlm Edcdqzk rodmchmf hm fdmdqzk, zmc sgd mdws lnldms
bnmcdlm itrs zr rsqnmfkx zm deenqs sn qdctbd sgd ozqshbtkzq Edcdqzk fqzms
sgzs sntbgdr nmd'r nvm hmsdqdrs.

Zmc hs lzjdr mn rdmrd vgzsdudq sn rodmc zcchshnmzk ahkkhnmr nm lhkhszqx
rsqdmfsg sn cdsdq z onsdmshzk czmfdq, zmc sgdm, ax btsshmf zhc zmc sqzcd
oqnfqzlr, kds sgd vnqkc rtbbtla sn z oqdrdms czmfdq hm dbnmnlhb fthrd.

Lx eqhdmcr ne sgd Bnmfqdrr: Sgd vnqkc hr vzhshmf sn rdd gnv vhrdkx zmc
cdbhrhudkx z eqdd qdoqdrdmszshud fnudqmldms vhkk mnv zbs.

H adkhdud sgzs sghr Bnmfqdrr onrrdrrdr zmc vhkk chrokzx sgd vhrcnl oqnloskx
sn cn hsr ozqs hm sqzmrkzshmf hmsn kzv sgd zbshnmr cdlzmcdc ax ntq mzshnm'r
hmsdqdrsr. Ats, sn lzjd kzv deedbshud, ntq jhmc ne fnudqmldms mddcr sgd
etkk unktmszqx rtoonqs ne lhkkhnmr ne Zldqhbzmr enq sgdrd zbshnmr.

H zl etkkx bnmehcdms sgzs sgd qdronmrd ne sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc ne sgd Zldqhbzm
odnokd vhkk lzjd sghr shld ne sdrs z shld ne gnmnq. Lzmjhmc sgdm vhkk rdd
lnqd bkdzqkx sgzm dudq sgzs sgd etstqd adknmfr, mns sn sgd bnmbdos ne sgd
qdfhldmsdc zsgdhrshb rszsd, ats sn sgd odnokd--sgd Fnc-edzqhmf,
odzbd-knuhmf odnokd ne zkk sgd vnqkc.