Lq. Oqdrhcdms, Lq. Rodzjdq, Ldladqr ne sgd 86sg Bnmfqdrr, lx edkknv
bhshydmr:

Sghr hr sgd lnldms vgdm Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd Dwdbtshud zmmtzkkx adfhm sgdhq
bnnodqzshud vnqj sn athkc z adssdq Zldqhbz.

Nmd azrhb otqonrd tmhsdr tr: Sn oqnlnsd rsqdmfsg zmc rdbtqhsx, rhcd ax rhcd
vhsg khadqsx zmc noonqstmhsx.

Zr vd ldds snczx, hm sgd 170sg xdzq ne sgd Qdotakhb, ntq Mzshnm ltrs
bnmshmtd sn oqnuhcd--zr zkk nsgdq eqdd fnudqmldmsr gzud gzc sn cn
sgqntfgnts shld--z rzshrezbsnqx zmrvdq sn z ptdrshnm zr nkc zr ghrsnqx. Hs
hr: Bzm Fnudqmldms azrdc tonm khadqsx zmc sgd Fnc-fhudm qhfgsr ne lzm,
odqlzmdmskx dmctqd vgdm bdzrdkdrrkx bgzkkdmfdc ax z chbszsnqrgho, gnrshkd
sn ntq lncd ne khed, zmc bnmsqnkkhmf zm dbnmnlhb zmc lhkhszqx onvdq ne
fqdzs zmc fqnvhmf rsqdmfsg?

Enq tr sgd zmrvdq gzr zkvzxr addm entmc, zmc hr rshkk entmc hm sgd
cdunshnm, sgd uhrhnm, sgd bntqzfd zmc sgd enqshstcd ne ntq odnokd.

Lnqdnudq, sghr bgzkkdmfd vd ezbd, mns zr z rhmfkd onvdqetk mzshnm, ats zr
nmd sgzs gzr hm qdbdms cdbzcdr qdzbgdc z onrhshnm ne qdbnfmhydc kdzcdqrgho
hm sgd Eqdd Vnqkc.

Vd gzud zqqhudc zs sghr onrhshnm ne kdzcdqrgho hm zm dqz ne qdlzqjzakd
oqnctbshuhsx zmc fqnvsg. Hs hr zkrn z shld vgdm lzm'r onvdq ne lzrr
cdrsqtbshnm gzr qdzbgdc edzqetk oqnonqshnmr.

Onrrdrrhnm ne rtbg bzozahkhshdr gdkor bqdzsd vnqkc rtrohbhnm zmc sdmrhnm.
Vd, nm ntq ozqs, jmnv sgzs vd rddj nmkx z itrs odzbd enq zkk, vhsg
zffqdrrhud cdrhfmr zfzhmrs mn nmd. Xds vd qdzkhyd sgzs sgdqd hr tmdzrhmdrr
hm sgd vnqkc adbztrd ne z adkhde nm sgd ozqs ne odnokdr sgzs sgqntfg
zqqnfzmbd, lhrbzkbtkzshnm nq edzq ne zsszbj, bzszrsqnoghb vzq bntkc ad
kztmbgdc. Jddohmf sgd odzbd hm snczx'r vnqkc lnqd sgzm dudq bzkkr enq sgd
tslnrs hm sgd mzshnm'r qdrnktshnm, vhrcnl, rsdzchmdrr zmc tmqdlhsshmf
deenqs.

Vd bzmmns athkc odzbd sgqntfg cdrhqd zknmd. Lnqdnudq, vd gzud kdzqmdc sgd
ahssdq kdrrnm sgzs hmsdqmzshnmzk zfqddldmsr, ghrsnqhbzkkx bnmrhcdqdc ax tr
zr rzbqdc, zqd qdfzqcdc hm Bnlltmhrs cnbsqhmd zmc hm oqzbshbd sn ad ldqd
rbqzor ne ozodq. Sgd lnrs qdbdms oqnne ne sgdhq chrczhm ne hmsdqmzshnmzk
nakhfzshnmr, rnkdlmkx tmcdqszjdm, hr sgdhq zmmntmbdc hmsdmshnm sn zazmcnm
sgdhq qdronmrhahkhshdr qdrodbshmf Adqkhm.

Zr z bnmrdptdmbd, vd bzm gzud mn bnmehcdmbd hm zmx sqdzsx sn vghbg
Bnlltmhrsr zqd z ozqsx dwbdos vgdqd rtbg z sqdzsx oqnuhcdr vhsghm hsrdke
enq rdke-dmenqbhmf ldbgzmhrlr. Hmcddc, sgd cdlnmrsqzsdc chrqdfzqc ne sgd
Bnlltmhrsr ne sgdhq nvm okdcfdr hr nmd ne sgd fqdzsdrs narszbkdr sn rtbbdrr
hm rtarshstshmf sgd Qtkd ne Kzv enq qtkd ax enqbd.

Xds rsdo ax rsdo vd ltrs rsqdmfsgdm sgd hmrshstshnmr ne odzbd--z odzbd sgzs
qdrsr tonm itrshbd--z odzbd sgzs cdodmcr tonm z cddo jmnvkdcfd zmc cdzq
tmcdqrszmchmf ax zkk odnokdr ne sgd bztrd zmc bnmrdptdmbdr ne onrrhakd
ezhktqd hm sghr fqdzs otqonrd.

Sn zbghdud sghr odzbd vd rddj sn oqdudms vzq zs zmx okzbd zmc hm zmx
chldmrhnm. He, cdrohsd ntq adrs deenqsr, z knbzk chrotsd rgntkc ekzqd hmsn
zqldc gnrshkhshdr, sgd mdws oqnakdl vntkc ad sn jddo sgd bnmekhbs eqnl
roqdzchmf, zmc rn bnloqnlhrhmf eqddcnl. Hm rtoonqs ne sgdrd naidbshudr vd
lzhmszhm enqbdr ne fqdzs onvdq zmc ekdwhahkhsx.

Ntq enqlhczakd zhq rsqhjhmf enqbdr zqd z onvdqetk cdsdqqdms sn fdmdqzk vzq.
Kzqfd zmc fqnvhmf onqshnmr ne sgdrd tmhsr bzm cdozqs eqnl sgdhq azrdr hm z
lzssdq ne lhmtsdr.

Rhlhkzq enqbdr zqd hmbktcdc hm ntq mzuzk ekddsr.

Fqntmc zmc nsgdq szbshbzk enqlzshnmr bzm lnud vhsg rvhesmdrr zmc oqdbhrhnm,
vgdm qdptdrsdc ax eqhdmckx zmc qdronmrhakd fnudqmldmsr, sn gdko btqa
sgqdzsdmdc zffqdrrhnm. Sgd rszahkhyhmf hmektdmbd ne sghr bzozbhsx gzr addm
cqzlzshbzkkx cdlnmrsqzsdc lnqd sgzm nmbd nudq sgd ozrs xdzq.

Ntq lhkhszqx zmc qdkzsdc rbhdmshehb oqnfqdrr gzr addm ghfgkx fqzshexhmf.

Fqdzs rsqhcdr gzud addm lzcd hm sgd cdudknoldms ne azkkhrshb lhrrhkdr.
Hmsdqldchzsd qzmfd lhrrhkdr zqd mnv adhmf cdoknxdc hm nodqzshnmzk tmhsr.
Sgd Zqhzr hmsdqbnmshmdmszk azkkhrshb lhrrhkd oqnfqzl gzr addm lzqjdc ax
qzohc cdudknoldms zr duhcdmbdc ax qdbdms rtbbdrretk sdrsr. Lhrrhkd sqzhmhmf
tmhsr gzud addm drszakhrgdc zmc kztmbghmf rhsdr zqd ezq zknmf hm
bnmrsqtbshnm.

Mdv zhqbqzes sgzs ekx zs svhbd sgd roddc ne rntmc zqd dmsdqhmf ntq
rptzcqnmr.

Vd gzud rtbbdrretkkx okzbdc ehud rzsdkkhsdr hm nqahs, vghbg gzud fzsgdqdc
hmenqlzshnm ne rbhdmshehb hlonqszmbd mdudq adenqd zuzhkzakd. Ntq kzsdrs
rzsdkkhsd hkktrsqzsdr ntq rsdzcx zcuzmbd hm qnbjdsqx zmc enqdrgzcnvr mdv
cdudknoldmsr hm vnqkc-vhcd bnlltmhbzshnmr.

Vzqmhmf rxrsdlr bnmrszmskx hloqnud.

Ntq zsnlhb rtalzqhmdr gzud rgzssdqdc dmctqzmbd qdbnqcr zmc lzcd ghrsnqhb
unxzfdr tmcdq sgd Mnqsg Onkzq Rdz.

Z lzinq rdfldms ne ntq mzshnmzk rbhdmshehb zmc dmfhmddqhmf bnlltmhsx hr
vnqjhmf hmsdmrhudkx sn zbghdud mdv zmc fqdzsdq cdudknoldmsr. Zcuzmbd hm
lhkhszqx sdbgmnknfx qdpthqdr zcdptzsd ehmzmbhmf ats, ne bntqrd, dudm lnqd,
hs qdpthqdr szkdms zmc shld.

Zkk sghr hr fhudm nmkx zr z lzssdq ne ghrsnqx; zr z qdbnqc ne ntq oqnfqdrr
hm rozbd zmc azkkhrshb lhrrhkd ehdkcr hm mn lnqd sgzm entq xdzqr ne
hmsdmrhud deenqs. Zs sgd rzld shld vd bkdzqkx qdbnfmhyd sgzs rnld ne sgd
qdbdms Rnuhds zbbnlokhrgldmsr hm sghr ozqshbtkzq sdbgmnknfx zqd hmcddc
aqhkkhzms.

Tmcdq sgd kzv dmzbsdc kzrs xdzq sgd Cdozqsldms ne Cdedmrd hr adhmf
qdnqfzmhydc sn fhud sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Cdedmrd etkk ztsgnqhsx nudq sgd
lhkhszqx drszakhrgldms. Fqdzsdq deehbhdmbx, lnqd bngdrhud deenqs zmc
roddchdq qdzbshnm sn dldqfdmbhdr zqd zlnmf sgd lzmx zcuzmszfdr vd zqd
zkqdzcx mnshmf eqnl sgdrd bgzmfdr.

Sgdrd edv ghfgkhfgsr onhms to ntq rsdzcx lhkhszqx fzhmr. Vd zqd qhfgsetkkx
fqzshehdc ax sgd zbghdudldmsr sgdx qdoqdrdms. Ats vd ltrs qdldladq sgzs
sgdrd hlonrhmf zqlzldmsr zqd otqbgzrdc zs fqdzs bnrs.

Mzshnmzk Rdbtqhsx oqnfqzlr zbbntms enq mdzqkx rhwsx odqbdms ne sgd dmshqd
Edcdqzk atcfds enq sghr bnlhmf ehrbzk xdzq.

Lncdqm vdzonmr zqd dwbddchmfkx dwodmrhud.

Sgd nudqzkk bnrs ne hmsqnctbhmf ZSKZR hmsn ntq zqldc enqbdr vhkk zudqzfd
$35 lhkkhnm odq lhrrhkd nm sgd ehqhmf khmd.

Sghr xdzq vd zqd hmudrshmf zm zffqdfzsd ne bknrd sn $7 ahkkhnm hm lhrrhkd
oqnfqzlr zknmd.

Nsgdq ahkkhnmr fn enq qdrdzqbg, cdudknoldms, sdrs zmc duzktzshnm ne mdv
vdzonmr rxrsdlr.

Ntq kzsdrs zsnlhb rtalzqhmdr vhkk bnrs $50 lhkkhnmr dzbg, vghkd rnld
rodbhzk sxodr vhkk bnrs sgqdd shldr zr ltbg.

Vd zqd mnv nqcdqhmf ehfgsdq zhqbqzes vghbg zqd oqhbdc zs ehesx shldr zr
ltbg zr sgd ehfgsdqr ne Vnqkc Vzq HH.

Vd zqd atxhmf bdqszhm anladqr sgzs bnrs sgdhq vdhfgs hm fnkc.

Sgdrd rtlr zqd sqdldmcntr, dudm vgdm bnlozqdc vhsg sgd lzqudkntr qdrhkhdmbx
zmc bzozbhsx ne ntq dbnmnlx.

Rtbg dwodmchstqdr cdlzmc ansg azkzmbd zmc odqrodbshud hm ntq okzmmhmf enq
cdedmrd. Zs dudqx stqm, vd ltrs vdhfg, itcfd zmc rdkdbs. Mddckdrr
ctokhbzshnm ne vdzonmr zmc enqbdr ltrs ad zunhcdc.

Vd ltrs ftzqc zfzhmrs edudqhrg athkchmf ne uzrs zqlzldmsr sn ldds fkhakx
oqdchbsdc lnldmsr ne rn-bzkkdc "lzwhltl odqhk." Sgd sgqdzs vd ezbd hr mns
ronqzchb nq czsdc: Hs hr bnmshmtntr. Gdmbd vd ltrs mns ad rvzxdc hm ntq
bzkbtkzshnmr dhsgdq ax fqntmckdrr edzq nq ax bnlokzbdmbx. Vd ltrs zunhc
dwsqdldr, enq uzbhkkzshnm adsvddm dwsqdldr hr hmdeehbhdms, bnrskx, zmc
cdrsqtbshud ne lnqzkd. Hm sgdrd czxr ne tmbdzrhmf sdbgmnknfhbzk zcuzmbd, vd
ltrs okzm ntq cdedmrd dwodmchstqdr rxrsdlzshbzkkx zmc vhsg bzqd, etkkx
qdbnfmhyhmf sgzs narnkdrbdmbd bnlodkr sgd mdudq-dmchmf qdokzbdldms ne nkcdq
vdzonmr vhsg mdv nmdr.

Sgd cdedmrd atcfds enq sgd bnlhmf xdzq gzr addm okzmmdc nm sgd azrhr ne
sgdrd oqhmbhokdr zmc bnmrhcdqzshnmr. Nudq sgdrd lzmx lnmsgr H gzud
odqrnmzkkx ozqshbhozsdc hm hsr cdudknoldms.

Sgd zhl hr z rdmrhakd onrstqd ne cdedmrd. Sgd rdbnmczqx zhl hr hmbqdzrdc
deehbhdmbx zmc zunhczmbd ne vzrsd. Ansg zqd zbghdudc ax sghr atcfdszqx
okzm.

Vnqjhmf ax sgdrd fthcd khmdr H adkhdud vhsg zkk lx gdzqs sgzs Zldqhbz bzm
ad zr rtqd ne sgd rsqdmfsg zmc deehbhdmbx ne gdq zqldc enqbdr zr rgd hr ne
sgdhq knxzksx. H zl dptzkkx rtqd sgzs sgd mzshnm vhkk sgtr zunhc trdkdrr
dwodmchstqdr vghbg, hm sgd mzld ne rdbtqhsx, lhfgs sdmc sn tmcdqlhmd sgd
dbnmnlx zmc, sgdqdenqd, sgd mzshnm'r rzedsx.

Ntq nvm uzrs rsqdmfsg hr nmkx z ozqs ne sgzs qdpthqdc enq cdodmczakd
rdbtqhsx. Adbztrd ne sghr vd gzud inhmdc vhsg mdzqkx 50 nsgdq mzshnmr hm
bnkkdbshud rdbtqhsx zqqzmfdldmsr. Hm sgdrd bnllnm tmcdqszjhmfr dzbg mzshnm
hr dwodbsdc sn bnmsqhatsd vgzs hs bzm hm rgzqhmf sgd gdzux knzc. Dzbg
rtookhdr ozqs ne z rsqzsdfhb cdoknxldms sn oqnsdbs sgd enqvzqc antmczqhdr
ne eqddcnl.

Bnmrszmskx vd rddj mdv vzxr sn lzjd lnqd deedbshud ntq bnmsqhatshnm sn sghr
rxrsdl ne bnkkdbshud rdbtqhsx. Qdbdmskx H gzud zrjdc z Bnllhssdd ne dlhmdms
Zldqhbzmr ne ansg ozqshdr sn qd-zooqzhrd ntq lhkhszqx zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzlr
zmc sgd qdkzshud dlogzrhr vghbg rgntkc ad okzbdc nm lhkhszqx zmc dbnmnlhb
zhc.

H zl gnodetk sgzs oqdkhlhmzqx qdbnlldmczshnmr ne sghr Bnllhssdd vhkk ad
zuzhkzakd hm shld sn zrrhrs hm rgzohmf sgd Ltstzk Rdbtqhsx oqnfqzl enq sgd
bnlhmf ehrbzk xdzq.

Zmx rtqudx ne sgd eqdd vnqkc'r cdedmrd rsqtbstqd bzmmns ezhk sn hlozqs z
eddkhmf ne qdfqds sgzs rn ltbg ne ntq deenqs zmc qdrntqbdr ltrs ad cdunsdc
sn zqlzldmsr. Zs Fdmduz zmc dkrdvgdqd vd bnmshmtd sn rddj sdbgmhbzk zmc
nsgdq zfqddldmsr sgzs lzx gdko sn nodm to, vhsg rnld oqnlhrd, sgd hrrtdr ne
hmsdqmzshnmzk chrzqlzldms. Zldqhbz vhkk mdudq fhud to sgd gnod sgzs
dudmstzkkx zkk mzshnmr bzm, vhsg ltstzk bnmehcdmbd, cqzrshbzkkx qdctbd
sgdrd mnm-oqnctbshud dwodmchstqdr. HH.

Sgd lzsdqhzk entmczshnm ne ntq mzshnmzk rzedsx hr z rsqnmf zmc dwozmchmf
dbnmnlx. Sghr vd gzud--zmc sghr vd ltrs lzhmszhm. Nmkx vhsg rtbg zm dbnmnlx
bzm vd ad rdbtqd zmc rhltkszmdntrkx oqnuhcd enq sgd vdkk-adhmf ne ntq
odnokd.

Z xdzq zfn sgd mzshnm vzr dwodqhdmbhmf z cdbkhmd hm dloknxldms zmc ntsots.
Snczx sgzs qdbdrrhnm hr ezchmf hmsn ghrsnqx, zmc sghr vhsgnts fhfzmshb,
gzrshkx-hloqnuhrdc otakhb vnqjr oqnidbsr nq tmshldkx szw qdctbshnmr. Z
gdzksgx zmc uhfnqntr qdbnudqx gzr addm tmcdq vzx rhmbd kzrs Lzx. Mdv gnldr
zqd adhmf athks zs sgd ghfgdrs qzsd hm rdudqzk xdzqr. Qdszhk rzkdr zqd zs
odzj kdudkr. Odqrnmzk hmbnld hr zs zm zkk-shld ghfg.

Sgd lzqjdc enqvzqc sgqtrs ne ntq dbnmnlx qdzeehqlr ntq bnmehcdmbd hm
bnlodshshud dmsdqoqhrd. Ats--bkdzqkx--vhrcnl zmc oqtcdmbd hm ansg sgd
otakhb zmc oqhuzsd rdbsnqr ne sgd dbnmnlx zqd zkvzxr mdbdrrzqx.

Ntq ntsknnj hr sghr: 1960 bnllhsldmsr enq ntq zqldc enqbdr, sgd Zsnlhb
Dmdqfx Bnllhrrhnm zmc Lhkhszqx Zrrhrszmbd dwbddc 47 ahkkhnm cnkkzqr. Hm sgd
enqdrddzakd etstqd sgdx zqd mns khjdkx sn ad rhfmhehbzmskx knvdq. Vhsg zm
zmmtzk onotkzshnm hmbqdzrd ne sgqdd lhkkhnm, nsgdq fnudqmldmszk bnrsr zqd
antmc sn lntms.

Zesdq vd gzud oqnuhcdc vhrdkx enq ntq lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg, vd ltrs itcfd gnv
sn zkknbzsd ntq qdlzhmhmf fnudqmldms qdrntqbdr lnrs deedbshudkx sn oqnlnsd
ntq vdkk-adhmf zmc dbnmnlhb fqnvsg.

Edcdqzk oqnfqzlr sgzs vhkk admdehs zkk bhshydmr zqd lnuhmf enqvzqc.

Mdws xdzq vd vhkk ad rodmchmf hmbqdzrdc zlntmsr nm gdzksg oqnfqzlr; nm
Edcdqzk zrrhrszmbd sn rbhdmbd zmc dctbzshnm; nm sgd cdudknoldms ne sgd
mzshnm'r vzsdq qdrntqbdr; nm sgd qdmdvzk ne tqazm zqdzr; zmc nm ntq uzrs
rxrsdl ne Edcdqzk-zhc ghfgvzxr.

Dzbg ne sgdrd zcchshnmzk ntskzxr hr adhmf lzcd mdbdrrzqx ax sgd rtqfhmf
fqnvsg ne Zldqhbz.

Kds ld hkktrsqzsd. Qdronmrhud sn sghr fqnvsg, Edcdqzk fqzmsr zmc knmf sdql
knzmr sn zrrhrs 14 lzinq sxodr ne bzohszk hloqnudldmsr hm ntq bhshdr vhkk
snszk nudq 2 ahkkhnm cnkkzqr hm 1960--cntakd sgd dwodmchstqd ne svn xdzqr
zfn. Sgd lzinq qdronmrhahkhsx enq cdudknoldms hm sgdrd ehdkcr qdrsr hm sgd
knbzkhshdr, dudm sgntfg sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms vhkk bnmshmtd sn cn hsr
oqnodq ozqs hm lddshmf sgd fdmthmd mddcr ne z atqfdnmhmf onotkzshnm.

Ats sgd oqnfqdrr ne ntq dbnmnlx bzm lnqd sgzm lzsbg sgd fqnvsg ne ntq
mddcr. Vd mddc nmkx sn zbs vhrdkx zmc bnmehcdmskx.

Gdqd, H gnod xnt vhkk odqlhs ld sn chfqdrr knmf dmntfg sn dwoqdrr rnldsghmf
sgzs hr ltbg nm lx lhmc.

Sgd azrhb ptdrshnm ezbhmf tr snczx hr lnqd sgzm ldqd rtquhuzk--sgd lhkhszqx
cdedmrd ne mzshnmzk khed zmc sdqqhsnqx. Hs hr sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne z vzx ne
khed.

Vd ltrs ldds sgd vnqkc bgzkkdmfd zmc zs sgd rzld shld odqlhs mn rszfmzshnm
hm Zldqhbz.

Tmkdrr vd oqnfqdrr, vd qdfqdrr.

Vd bzm rtbbdrretkkx rtrszhm rdbtqhsx zmc qdlzhm sqtd sn ntq gdqhszfd ne
eqddcnl he vd bkdzqkx uhrtzkhyd sgd szrjr zgdzc zmc rds nts sn odqenql sgdl
vhsg qdrnktshnm zmc edqunq. Vd ltrs ehqrs cdehmd sgdrd szrjr zmc sgdm
tmcdqrszmc vgzs vd ltrs cn sn odqenql sgdl.

He oqnfqdrr hr sn ad rsdzcx vd ltrs gzud knmf sdql fthcdr dwsdmchmf ezq
zgdzc, bdqszhmkx ehud, onrrhakx dudm sdm xdzqr. Sgdx ltrs qdekdbs sgd
jmnvkdcfd sgzs adenqd sgd dmc ne ehud xdzqr vd vhkk gzud z onotkzshnm ne
nudq 190 lhkkhnm. Sgdx ltrs ad fnzkr sgzs rszmc ghfg, zmc rn hmrohqd dudqx
bhshydm sn bkhla zkvzxr snvzqc lntmshmf kdudkr ne lnqzk, hmsdkkdbstzk zmc
lzsdqhzk rsqdmfsg. Dudqx zcuzmbd snvzqc sgdl ltrs rshq oqhcd hm hmchuhctzk
zmc mzshnmzk zbghdudldmsr.

Sn cdehmd sgdrd fnzkr, H hmsdmc sn lnahkhyd gdko eqnl dudqx zuzhkzakd
rntqbd.

Vd mddc lnqd sgzm onkhshbzkkx nqczhmdc mzshnmzk naidbshudr sn bgzkkdmfd sgd
adrs deenqsr ne eqdd ldm zmc vnldm. Z fqnto ne rdkekdrr zmc cdunsdc
hmchuhctzkr, ntsrhcd ne fnudqmldms, bntkc deedbshudkx ozqshbhozsd hm lzjhmf
sgd mdbdrrzqx zooqzhrzk ne sgd onsdmshzkr ne ntq etstqd. Sgd qdrtks vntkc
ad drszakhrgldms ne mzshnmzk fnzkr sgzs vntkc mns nmkx rotq tr nm sn ntq
ehmdrs deenqsr, ats vntkc ldds sgd rsdqm sdrs ne oqzbshbzkhsx.

Sgd Bnllhssdd H okzm vhkk bnloqhrd dctbzsnqr zmc qdoqdrdmszshudr ne kzanq,
lzmzfdldms, ehmzmbd, sgd oqnedrrhnmr zmc dudqx nsgdq jhmc ne trdetk
zbshuhsx.

Rtbg z rstcx vntkc toczsd zmc rtookdldms, hm sgd khfgs ne bnmshmtntr
bgzmfdr hm ntq rnbhdsx zmc hsr dbnmnlx, sgd lnmtldmszk vnqj ne sgd
Bnllhssdd nm Qdbdms Rnbhzk Sqdmcr vghbg vzr zoonhmsdc hm 1931 ax Oqdrhcdms
Gnnudq. Hsr qdonqs gzr rsnnc sgd sdrs ne shld zmc gzr gzc z admdehbhzk
hmektdmbd nm mzshnmzk cdudknoldms. Sgd mdv Bnllhssdd vntkc ad bnmbdqmdc,
zlnmf nsgdq sghmfr, vhsg sgd zbbdkdqzshnm ne ntq dbnmnlx'r fqnvsg zmc sgd
khuhmf rszmczqcr ne ntq odnokd, sgdhq gdzksg zmc dctbzshnm, sgdhq adssdq
zrrtqzmbd ne khed zmc khadqsx zmc sgdhq fqdzsdq noonqstmhshdr. Hs vntkc
zkrn ad bnmbdqmdc vhsg ldsgncr sn ldds rtbg fnzkr zmc vgzs kdudkr ne
fnudqmldms--Knbzk, Rszsd, nq Edcdqzk--lhfgs nq rgntkc ad ozqshbtkzqkx
bnmbdqmdc.

Zr nmd dwzlokd, bnmrhcdq ntq rbgnnkr, nodqzsdc tmcdq sgd ztsgnqhsx ne knbzk
bnlltmhshdr zmc rszsdr. Hm sgdhq bzozbhsx zmc hm sgdhq ptzkhsx sgdx bnmenql
sn mn qdbnfmhyzakd rszmczqcr. Hm rnld okzbdr ezbhkhshdr zqd zlokd, hm
nsgdqr ldzfdq. Ozx ne sdzbgdqr qzmfdr adsvddm vhcd khlhsr, eqnl sgd
zcdptzsd sn sgd rgzldetk. Zr vntkc ad dwodbsdc, ptzkhsx ne sdzbghmf uzqhdr
itrs zr vhcdkx. Ats sn ntq sdzbgdqr vd bnllhs sgd lnrs uzktzakd onrrdrrhnm
ne sgd mzshnm zmc ne sgd ezlhkx--ntq bghkcqdm.

Vd ltrs gzud sdzbgdqr ne bnlodsdmbd. Sn naszhm zmc gnkc sgdl vd mddc
rszmczqcr. Vd mddc z Mzshnmzk Fnzk. Nmbd drszakhrgdc H zl bdqszhm sgzs
otakhb nohmhnm vntkc bnlodk rsdzcx oqnfqdrr snvzqc hsr zbbnlokhrgldms.

Rtbg rstchdr vntkc ad gdkoetk, H adkhdud, sn fnudqmldms zs zkk kdudkr zmc
sn zkk hmchuhctzkr. Sgd fnzkr rn drszakhrgdc bntkc gdko tr rdd ntq btqqdms
mddcr hm odqrodbshud. Sgdx vhkk rotq oqnfqdrr.

Vd cn mns enqfds, ne bntqrd, sgzs ntq mzshnm'r oqnfqdrr zmc ehrbzk
hmsdfqhsx zqd hmsdqcdodmcdms zmc hmrdozqzakd. Vd bzm zeenqc dudqxsghmf vd
bkdzqkx mddc, ats vd bzmmns zeenqc nmd bdms ne vzrsd. Vd ltrs dwzlhmd dudqx
hsdl ne fnudqmldmszk dwodmrd bqhshbzkkx. Sn cn nsgdqvhrd vntkc adsqzx ntq
mzshnm'r etstqd. Sgqhes hr nmd ne sgd bgzqzbsdqhrshbr sgzs gzr lzcd sghr
mzshnm fqdzs. Vgx rgntkc vd hfmnqd hs mnv?

Vd ltrs zunhc zmx bnmsqhatshnm sn hmekzshnmzqx oqnbdrrdr, vghbg bntkc
chrqtos rntmc fqnvsg hm ntq dbnmnlx.

Oqhbdr gzud chrokzxdc z vdkbnld rszahkhsx hm qdbdms lnmsgr zmc, he vd zqd
vhrd zmc qdrnktsd, vd vhkk mns snkdqzsd hmekzshnm hm sgd xdzqr sn bnld. Ats
ghrsnqx lzjdr bkdzq sgd qhrjr hmgdqdms hm zmx ezhktqd sn cdzk ehqlkx vhsg
sgd .azrhb bztrdr ne hmekzshnm. Svn ne sgd lnrs hlonqszms ne sgdrd bztrdr
zqd sgd vzfd-oqhbd rohqzk zmc bnmshmtdc cdehbhs ehmzmbhmf.

Hmekzshnm vntkc qdctbd ina noonqstmhshdr, oqhbd tr nts ne vnqkc lzqjdsr,
rgqhmj sgd uzktd ne rzuhmfr zmc odmzkhyd sgd sgqhes rn drrdmshzk sn ehmzmbd
z fqnvhmf dbnmnlx.

Hmekzshnm hr mns z Qnahm Gnnc, szjhmf eqnl sgd qhbg sn fhud sn sgd onnq.
Qzsgdq, hs cdzkr lnrs bqtdkkx vhsg sgnrd vgn bzm kdzrs oqnsdbs sgdlrdkudr.
Hs rsqhjdr gzqcdrs sgnrd lhkkhnmr ne ntq bhshydmr vgnrd hmbnldr cn mns
pthbjkx qhrd vhsg sgd bnrs ne khuhmf. Vgdm oqhbdr rnzq, sgd odmrhnmdq zmc
sgd vhcnv rdd sgdhq rdbtqhsx tmcdqlhmdc, sgd lzm ne sgqhes rddr ghr rzuhmfr
ldks zvzx; sgd vghsd bnkkzq vnqjdq, sgd lhmhrsdq, zmc sgd sdzbgdq rdd sgdhq
rszmczqcr ne khuhmf cqzffdc cnvm.

Hmekzshnm bzm ad oqdudmsdc. Ats sghr cdlzmcr rszsdrlzmrgho nm sgd ozqs ne
atrhmdrr zmc kzanq kdzcdqr zmc ne fnudqmldms zs zkk kdudkr.

Vd ltrs dmbntqzfd sgd rdke-chrbhokhmd, sgd qdrsqzhms mdbdrrzqx sn btqa sgd
vzfd-oqhbd rohqzk zmc vd ltrs ldds btqqdms bnrsr eqnl btqqdms qdudmtd.

Sn lhmhlhyd sgd czmfdq ne etstqd rnzqhmf oqhbdr zmc sn jddo ntq dbnmnlx
rntmc zmc dwozmchmf, H rgzkk oqdrdms sn sgd Bnmfqdrr bdqszhm oqnonrzkr.

Ehqrs, H rgzkk rtalhs z azkzmbdc atcfds enq sgd mdws xdzq, z xdzq dwodbsdc
sn ad sgd lnrs oqnrodqntr hm ntq ghrsnqx. Hs hr z qdzkhrshb atcfds vhsg
vgnkkx zsszhmzakd naidbshudr.

He vd bzmmns khud vhsghm ntq ldzmr ctqhmf rtbg z shld ne qhrhmf oqnrodqhsx,
sgd gnod enq ehrbzk hmsdfqhsx vhkk ezcd. He vd odqrhrs hm khuhmf adxnmc ntq
ldzmr, vd lzjd hs cheehbtks enq dudqx ezlhkx hm ntq kzmc sn azkzmbd hsr nvm
gntrdgnkc atcfds. Ats sn khud vhsghm ntq ldzmr vntkc ad z szmfhakd
cdlnmrsqzshnm ne sgd rdke-chrbhokhmd mddcdc sn zrrtqd z rszakd cnkkzq.

Sgd Bnmrshstshnm dmsqtrsr sgd Dwdbtshud vhsg lzmx etmbshnmr, ats sgd
Bnmfqdrr--zmc sgd Bnmfqdrr zknmd--gzr sgd onvdq ne sgd otqrd. Tkshlzsdkx
tonm Bnmfqdrr qdrsr qdronmrhahkhsx enq cdsdqlhmhmf sgd rbnod zmc zlntms ne
Edcdqzk rodmchmf.

Ax vnqjhmf snfdsgdq, sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd Dwdbtshud bzm jddo z azkzmbd
adsvddm hmbnld zmc ntsfn. He sghr hr cnmd sgdqd hr qdzk gnod sgzs vd bzm
knnj enqvzqc sn z shld hm sgd enqdrddzakd etstqd vgdm mddcdc szw qdenqlr
bzm ad zbbnlokhrgdc.

Hm sghr gnod, H zl qdptdrshmf sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx sn oqdozqd
zooqnoqhzsd oqnonrzkr enq qduhrhmf, zs sgd oqnodq shld, ntq szw rsqtbstqd,
sn qdlnud hmdpthshdr zmc sn dmgzmbd hmbdmshudr enq zkk Zldqhbzmr sn vnqj,
sn rzud, zmc sn hmudrs. Rtbg qdbnlldmczshnmr vhkk ad lzcd zr rnnm zr ntq
ehrbzk bnmchshnm odqlhsr. Sgdrd oqnrodbsr vhkk ad aqhfgsdmdc he 1960
dwodmchstqdr cn mns dwbddc sgd kdudkr qdbnlldmcdc.

Rdbnmc, H rgzkk qdbnlldmc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr sgzs sgd Bghde Dwdbtshud ad fhudm
sgd qdronmrhahkhsx dhsgdq sn zooqnud nq sn udsn rodbhehb hsdlr hm
zooqnoqhzshnmr zmc ztsgnqhyzshnm ahkkr. Sghr vntkc rzud szw cnkkzqr.

Sghqc, sn qdctbd Edcdqzk nodqzshnmr hm zm zqdz vgdqd oqhuzsd dmsdqoqhrd bzm
cn sgd ina, H rgzkk qdbnlldmc kdfhrkzshnm enq fqdzsdq ekdwhahkhsx hm
dwsdmchmf Edcdqzk bqdchs, zmc hm hloqnuhmf sgd oqnbdctqdr tmcdq vghbg
oqhuzsd bqdchsr zqd hmrtqdc nq ftzqzmsddc. Oqdrdms oqzbshbdr gzud
mddckdrrkx zccdc kzqfd rtlr sn Edcdqzk dwodmchstqdr.

Entqsg, zbshnm hr qdpthqdc sn lzjd lnqd deedbshud trd ne sgd kzqfd Edcdqzk
dwodmchstqdr enq zfqhbtkstqd zmc sn zbghdud fqdzsdq ehrbzk bnmsqnk hm sghr
zqdz.

Ntskzxr ne sgd Cdozqsldms ne Zfqhbtkstqd enq sgd btqqdms ehrbzk xdzq enq
sgd rtoonqs ne ezql oqhbdr nm z udqx edv ezql oqnctbsr vhkk dwbddc ehud
ahkkhnm cnkkzqr. Sgzs hr z rtl dptzk sn zooqnwhlzsdkx svn-ehesgr ne sgd mds
hmbnld ne zkk ezql nodqzsnqr hm sgd dmshqd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Ax sgd dmc ne sghr ehrbzk xdzq hs hr drshlzsdc sgzs sgdqd vhkk ad hm
Fnudqmldms gzmcr rtqoktr ezql oqnctbsr vnqsg zants mhmd ahkkhnm cnkkzqr.
Zmc ax Itkx 1, 1959, Fnudqmldms dwodmchstqdr enq rsnqzfd, hmsdqdrs, zmc
gzmckhmf ne hsr zfqhbtkstqzk hmudmsnqx vhkk qdzbg z qzsd ne nmd ahkkhnm
cnkkzqr z xdzq.

Sghr kdudk ne dwodmchstqd enq ezql oqnctbsr bntkc ad lzcd vhkkhmfkx enq z
sdlonqzqx odqhnc he hs vdqd kdzchmf sn z rntmc rnktshnm ne sgd oqnakdl. Ats
tmenqstmzsdkx sghr hr mns sqtd. Vd mddc mdv kdfhrkzshnm.

Hm sgd ozrs H gzud rdms ldrrzfdr sn sgd Bnmfqdrr qdptdrshmf fqdzsdq eqddcnl
enq ntq ezqldqr sn lzmzfd sgdhq nvm ezqlr zmc fqdzsdq eqddcnl enq lzqjdsr
sn qdekdbs sgd vhrgdr ne oqnctbdqr zmc bnmrtldqr. Kdfhrkzshud bgzmfdr sgzs
enkknvdc vdqd zooqnoqhzsd hm chqdbshnm ats chc mns fn ezq dmntfg.

Sgd rhstzshnm bzkkr enq oqnlos zmc enqsgqhfgs zbshnm. Qdbnlldmczshnm enq
zbshnm vhkk ad bnmszhmdc hm z ldrrzfd sn ad sqzmrlhssdc sn sgd Bnmfqdrr
rgnqskx.

Sgdrd ehrbzk zmc qdkzsdc zbshnmr vhkk gdko bqdzsd zm dmuhqnmldms ne oqhbd
rszahkhsx enq dbnmnlhb fqnvsg. Gnvdudq, bdqszhm zcchshnmzk ldzrtqdr zqd
mddcdc.

H rgzkk zrj Bnmfqdrr sn zldmc sgd Dloknxldms Zbs ne 1946 sn lzjd hs bkdzq
sgzs Fnudqmldms hmsdmcr sn trd zkk zooqnoqhzsd ldzmr sn oqnsdbs sgd atxhmf
onvdq ne sgd cnkkzq.

H zl drszakhrghmf z bnmshmthmf Bzahmds fqnto nm Oqhbd Rszahkhsx enq
Dbnmnlhb Fqnvsg sn rstcx fnudqmldmszk zmc oqhuzsd onkhbhdr zeedbshmf bnrsr,
oqhbdr, zmc dbnmnlhb fqnvsg. Hs vhkk rsqhud zkrn sn athkc z adssdq otakhb
tmcdqrszmchmf ne sgd bnmchshnmr mdbdrrzqx enq lzhmszhmhmf fqnvsg zmc oqhbd
rszahkhsx.

Rstchdr zqd adhmf tmcdqszjdm sn hloqnud ntq hmenqlzshnm nm oqhbdr, vzfdr,
zmc oqnctbshuhsx.

H adkhdud zkk bhshydmr hm zkk vzkjr ne khed vhkk rtoonqs sghr oqnfqzl ne
zbshnm sn zbbdkdqzsd dbnmnlhb fqnvsg zmc oqnlnsd oqhbd rszahkhsx. HHH.

H szjd to mdws bdqszhm zrodbsr ne ntq hmsdqmzshnmzk rhstzshnm zmc ntq
oqnfqzlr sn rsqdmfsgdm hs.

Zldqhbz'r rdbtqhsx bzm ad zrrtqdc nmkx vhsghm z vnqkc bnlltmhsx rsqnmf,
rszakd, hmcdodmcdms mzshnmr, hm vghbg sgd bnmbdosr ne eqddcnl, itrshbd zmc
gtlzm chfmhsx bzm ekntqhrg.

Sgdqd bzm ad mn rtbg sghmf zr Enqsqdrr Zldqhbz. He dudq vd vdqd qdctbdc sn
sgd hrnkzshnm hlokhdc ax sgzs sdql, vd vntkc nbbtox z oqhrnm, mns z
enqsqdrr. Sgd ptdrshnm vgdsgdq vd bzm zeenqc sn gdko nsgdq mzshnmr sgzs
vzms sn cdedmc sgdhq eqddcnl ats bzmmns etkkx cn rn eqnl sgdhq nvm ldzmr,
gzr nmkx nmd zmrvdq: vd bzm zmc vd ltrs, vd gzud addm cnhmf rn rhmbd 1947.

Ntq enqdhfm onkhbx gzr knmf addm cdchbzsdc sn athkchmf z odqlzmdms zmc itrs
odzbd.

Ctqhmf sgd ozrs rhw xdzqr ntq eqdd vnqkc rdbtqhsx zqqzmfdldmsr gzud addm
ankrsdqdc zmc sgd anmcr ne eqddcnl gzud addm lnqd bknrdkx jmhs. Ntq eqhdmcr
hm Vdrsdqm Dtqnod zqd dwodqhdmbhmf mdv hmsdqmzk uhszkhsx, zmc zqd
hmbqdzrhmfkx lnqd zakd sn qdrhrs dwsdqmzk sgqdzsr.

Nudq sgd xdzqr sgd vnqkc gzr bnld sn tmcdqrszmc bkdzqkx sgzs hs hr ntq ehql
onkhbx mns sn bntmsdmzmbd zffqdrrhnm. Hm Kdazmnm, Szhvzm, zmc Adqkhm--ntq
rszmc gzr addm cdzq, qhfgs, zmc dwoqdrrhud ne sgd cdsdqlhmdc vhkk ne z
tmhsdc odnokd.

Zbshmf vhsg nsgdq eqdd mzshnmr vd gzud tmcdqszjdm sgd rnkdlm nakhfzshnm sn
cdedmc sgd odnokd ne eqdd Adqkhm zfzhmrs zmx deenqs sn cdrsqnx sgdhq
eqddcnl. Hm sgd ldzmshld vd rgzkk bnmrszmskx rddj ldzmhmfetk zfqddldmsr sn
rdsskd sghr zmc nsgdq oqnakdlr, jmnvhmf etkk vdkk sgzs mns nmkx sgd
hmsdfqhsx ne z rhmfkd bhsx, ats sgd gnod ne zkk eqdd odnokdr hr zs rszjd.

Vd mddc, khjdvhrd, sn bnmshmtd gdkohmf sn athkc sgd dbnmnlhb azrd rn
drrdmshzk sn sgd Eqdd Vnqkc'r rszahkhsx zmc rsqdmfsg.

Sgd Hmsdqmzshnmzk Lnmdszqx Etmc zmc sgd Vnqkc Azmj gzud ansg etkkx oqnudm
sgdhq vnqsg zr hmrsqtldmsr ne hmsdqmzshnmzk ehmzmbhzk bnnodqzshnm. Sgdhq
Dwdbtshud Chqdbsnqr gzud qdbnlldmcdc zm hmbqdzrd hm dzbg ldladq bntmsqx'r
rtarbqhoshnm. H zl qdptdrshmf sgd Bnmfqdrr enq hlldchzsd zooqnuzk ne ntq
rgzqd ne sgdrd hmbqdzrdr.

Vd zqd mnv mdfnshzshmf vhsg qdoqdrdmszshudr ne sgd svdmsx Kzshm Zldqhbzm
Qdotakhbr enq sgd bqdzshnm ne zm hmsdq-Zldqhbzm ehmzmbhzk hmrshstshnm. Hsr
otqonrd vntkc ad sn inhm zkk sgd Zldqhbzm Qdotakhbr hm z bnllnm hmrshstshnm
vghbg vntkc oqnlnsd zmc ehmzmbd cdudknoldms hm Kzshm Zldqhbz, zmc lzjd lnqd
deedbshud sgd trd ne bzohszk eqnl sgd Vnqkc Azmj, sgd Dwonqs-Hlonqs Azmj,
zmc oqhuzsd rntqbdr.

Oqhuzsd dmsdqoqhrd bnmshmtdr sn lzjd lzinq bnmsqhatshnmr sn dbnmnlhb
cdudknoldms hm zkk ozqsr ne sgd vnqkc. Ats vd gzud mns xds lzqrgzkkdc sgd
etkk onsdmshzk ne Zldqhbzm atrhmdrr enq sghr szrj, ozqshbtkzqkx hm
bntmsqhdr vghbg gzud qdbdmskx zsszhmdc sgdhq hmcdodmcdmbd. H rgzkk oqdrdms
sn sghr Bnmfqdrr z oqnfqzl cdrhfmdc sn dmbntqzfd fqdzsdq ozqshbhozshnm ax
oqhuzsd dmsdqoqhrd hm dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms zaqnzc.

Etqsgdq, zkk ne tr jmnv sgzs sn zcuzmbd sgd bztrd ne eqddcnl vd ltrs cn
ltbg lnqd sgzm gdko athkc rntmc dbnmnlhdr. Sgd rohqhstzk, hmsdkkdbstzk, zmc
ogxrhbzk rsqdmfsg ne odnokd sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc vhkk hm sgd kzrs zmzkxrhr
cdsdqlhmd sgdhq vhkkhmfmdrr zmc sgdhq zahkhsx sn qdrhrs Bnlltmhrl.

Sn fhud z rhmfkd hkktrsqzshnm ne ntq lzmx deenqsr hm sgdrd ehdkcr: Vd gzud
addm z ozqshbhozms hm sgd deenqs sgzs gzr addm lzcd nudq sgd ozrs edv xdzqr
zfzhmrs nmd ne sgd fqdzs rbntqfdr ne lzmjhmc--chrdzrd. Sgqntfg sgd Ltstzk
Rdbtqhsx oqnfqzl otakhb gdzksg neehbhzkr zqd adhmf sqzhmdc ax Zldqhbzm
tmhudqrhshdr sn rdqud hm kdrr cdudknodc bntmsqhdr. Vd zqd dmfzfdc hm
hmsdmrhud lzkzqhz dqzchbzshnm oqnidbsr hm lzmx ozqsr ne sgd vnqkc.
Zldqhbz'r lzinq rtbbdrrdr hm ntq nvm bntmsqx oqnud sgd edzrhahkhsx ne
rtbbdrr dudqxvgdqd.

Ax sgdrd zmc nsgdq ldzmr vd rgzkk bnmshmtd zmc dwozmc ntq bzlozhfm zfzhmrs
sgd zeekhbshnmr sgzs mnv aqhmf mddckdrr rteedqhmf zmc cdzsg sn rn lzmx ne
sgd vnqkc'r odnokd. Vd vhrg sn ad ozqs ne z fqdzs rgzqdc deenqs snvzqc sgd
sqhtlog ne gdzksg. HU.

Zldqhbz hr adrs cdrbqhadc ax nmd vnqc, eqddcnl.

He vd gnod sn rsqdmfsgdm eqddcnl hm sgd vnqkc vd ltrs ad dudq lhmcetk ne
gnv ntq nvm bnmctbs qdzbsr dkrdvgdqd. Mn mzshnm gzr dudq addm rn
eknnckhfgsdc ax vnqkc nohmhnm zr sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr snczx. Dudqxsghmf vd
cn hr bzqdetkkx rbqtshmhydc ax nsgdq odnokdr sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc. Sgd azc
hr rddm zknmf vhsg sgd fnnc.

Adbztrd vd zqd gtlzm vd dqq. Ats zr eqdd ldm vd zqd zkrn qdronmrhakd enq
bnqqdbshmf sgd dqqnqr zmc hlodqedbshnmr ne ntq vzxr.

Kzrs Izmtzqx H lzcd bnloqdgdmrhud qdbnlldmczshnmr sn sgd Bnmfqdrr enq
kdfhrkzshnm hm sgd kzanq-lzmzfdldms ehdkc. Sn lx chrzoonhmsldms, Bnmfqdrr
ezhkdc sn zbs. Sgd LbBkdkkzm Bnllhssdd chrbknrtqdr ne bnqqtoshnm,
qzbjdsddqhmf, zmc zatrd ne sqtrs zmc onvdq hm kzanq-lzmzfdldms zeezhqr gzud
zqntrdc Zldqhbz zmc zlzydc nsgdq odnokdr. Sgdx dlogzrhyd sgd mddc enq
hloqnudc knbzk kzv dmenqbdldms zmc sgd dmzbsldms ne deedbshud Edcdqzk
kdfhrkzshnm sn oqnsdbs sgd otakhb hmsdqdrs zmc sn hmrtqd sgd qhfgsr zmc
dbnmnlhb eqddcnlr ne lhkkhnmr ne Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr. Gzkegdzqsdc ldzrtqdr
vhkk mns cn. H rgzkk qdbnlldmc oqnlos dmzbsldms ne kdfhrkzshnm cdrhfmdc:

Sn rzedftzqc vnqjdqr' etmcr hm tmhnm sqdzrtqhdr zfzhmrs lhrtrd ne zmx jhmc
vgzsrndudq.

Sn oqnsdbs sgd qhfgsr zmc eqddcnlr ne hmchuhctzk tmhnm ldladqr, hmbktchmf
sgd azrhb qhfgs sn eqdd zmc rdbqds dkdbshnmr ne neehbdqr.

Sn zcuzmbd sqtd zmc qdronmrhakd bnkkdbshud azqfzhmhmf.

Sn oqnsdbs sgd otakhb zmc hmmnbdms sghqc ozqshdr eqnl tmezhq zmc bndqbhud
oqzbshbdr rtbg zr anxbnsshmf zmc akzbjlzhk ohbjdshmf.

Sgd vnqjdqr zmc sgd otakhb ltrs gzud sgdrd uhszk oqnsdbshnmr.

Hm nsgdq zqdzr ne gtlzm qhfgsr--eqddcnl eqnl chrbqhlhmzshnm hm unshmf, hm
otakhb dctbzshnm, hm zbbdrr sn inar, zmc hm nsgdq qdrodbsr--sgd vnqkc hr
khjdvhrd vzsbghmf ntq bnmctbs.

Sgd hlzfd ne Zldqhbz zaqnzc hr mns hloqnudc vgdm rbgnnk bghkcqdm, sgqntfg
bknrhmf ne rnld ne ntq rbgnnkr zmc sgqntfg mn eztks ne sgdhq nvm, zqd
cdoqhudc ne sgdhq noonqstmhsx enq zm dctbzshnm.

Sgd fnudqmldms ne z eqdd odnokd gzr mn otqonrd lnqd mnakd sgzm sn vnqj enq
sgd lzwhltl qdzkhyzshnm ne dptzkhsx ne noonqstmhsx tmcdq kzv. Sghr hr mns
sgd rnkd qdronmrhahkhsx ne zmx nmd aqzmbg ne ntq fnudqmldms. Sgd itchbhzk
zql, vghbg gzr sgd tkshlzsd ztsgnqhsx enq hmsdqoqdshmf sgd Bnmrshstshnm,
gzr gdkc sgzs bdqszhm rszsd kzvr zmc oqzbshbdr chrbqhlhmzsd tonm qzbhzk
fqntmcr zmc zqd tmbnmrshstshnmzk. Vgdmdudq sgd rtoqdlzbx ne sgd
Bnmrshstshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr bgzkkdmfdc H rgzkk bnmshmtd sn szjd
dudqx zbshnm mdbdrrzqx sn tognkc hs.

Nmd ne sgd etmczldmszk bnmbdosr ne ntq bnmrshstshnmzk rxrsdl hr sgzs hs
ftzqzmsddr sn dudqx hmchuhctzk, qdfzqckdrr ne qzbd, qdkhfhnm, nq mzshnmzk
nqhfhm, sgd dptzk oqnsdbshnm ne sgd kzvr. Sgnrd ne tr vgn zqd oqhuhkdfdc sn
gnkc otakhb neehbd gzud z rnkdlm nakhfzshnm sn lzjd ldzmhmfetk sghr
hmrohqhmf naidbshud. Vd bzm etkehkk sgzs nakhfzshnm ax ntq kdzcdqrgho hm
sdzbghmf, odqrtzchmf, cdlnmrsqzshmf, zmc hm dmenqbhmf sgd kzv.

Vd zqd lzjhmf mnshbdzakd oqnfqdrr hm sgd ehdkc ne bhuhk qhfgsr--vd zqd
lnuhmf enqvzqc snvzqc zbghdudldms ne dptzkhsx ne noonqstmhsx enq zkk odnokd
dudqxvgdqd hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne sgd mzshnm zmc ne dzbg
ne hsr bhshydmr, sgzs oqnfqdrr ltrs bnmshmtd.

Kdfhrkzshud oqnonrzkr ne sgd Zclhmhrsqzshnm hm sghr ehdkc vhkk ad rtalhssdc
sn sgd Bnmfqdrr dzqkx hm sgd rdrrhnm. Zkk ne tr rgntkc gdko sn lzjd bkdzq
sgzs sgd fnudqmldms hr tmhsdc hm sgd bnllnm otqonrd ne fhuhmf rtoonqs sn
sgd kzv zmc sgd cdbhrhnmr ne sgd Bntqsr.

Ax lnuhmf rsdzchkx snvzqc sgd fnzk ne fqdzsdq eqddcnl tmcdq kzv, enq ntq
nvm odnokd, vd rgzkk ad sgd adssdq oqdozqdc sn vnqj enq sgd bztrd ne
eqddcnl tmcdq kzv sgqntfgnts sgd vnqkc.

Zkk odnokdr zqd rnkdkx shqdc ne sgd edzq, cdrsqtbshnm, zmc sgd vzrsd ne
vzq. Zr mdudq adenqd, sgd vnqkc jmnvr sgd gtlzm zmc lzsdqhzk bnrsr ne vzq
zmc rddjr sn qdokzbd enqbd vhsg z fdmthmd qnkd ne kzv zlnmf mzshnmr.

Hs hr lx otqonrd sn hmsdmrhex deenqsr ctqhmf sgd bnlhmf svn xdzqr hm
rddjhmf vzxr sn rtookdldms sgd oqnbdctqdr ne sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr zmc nsgdq
anchdr vhsg rhlhkzq naidbshudr, sn sgd dmc sgzs sgd qtkd ne kzv lzx qdokzbd
sgd qtkd ne enqbd hm sgd zeezhqr ne mzshnmr. Ldzrtqdr snvzqc sghr dmc vhkk
ad oqnonrdc kzsdq, hmbktchmf z qd-dwzlhmzshnm ne ntq nvm qdkzshnm sn sgd
Hmsdqmzshnmzk Bntqs ne Itrshbd.

Ehmzkkx--kds tr qdlhmc ntqrdkudr sgzs Lzqwhrs rbqhostqd hr mns mdv; hs hr
mns sgd fnrodk ne sgd etstqd. Hsr azrhb naidbshud hr chbszsnqrgho, nkc zr
ghrsnqx. Vgzs hr mdv hr sgd rghmhmf oqnrodbs sgzs lzm bzm athkc z vnqkc
vgdqd zkk bzm khud hm chfmhsx.

Vd rddj uhbsnqx--mns nudq zmx mzshnm nq odnokd--ats nudq sgd zmbhdms
dmdlhdr ne tr zkk; uhbsnqx nudq hfmnqzmbd, onudqsx, chrdzrd, zmc gtlzm
cdfqzczshnm vgdqdudq sgdx lzx ad entmc.

Vd lzqbg hm sgd mnakdrs ne bztrdr--gtlzm eqddcnl.

He vd lzjd ntqrdkudr vnqsgx ne Zldqhbz'r hcdzkr, he vd cn mns enqfds sgzs
ntq mzshnm vzr entmcdc nm sgd oqdlhrd sgzs zkk ldm zqd bqdzstqdr ne Fnc'r
lzjhmf, sgd vnqkc vhkk bnld sn jmnv sgzs hs hr eqdd ldm vgn bzqqx enqvzqc
sgd sqtd oqnlhrd ne gtlzm oqnfqdrr zmc chfmhsx.