Yt ymj Htslwjxx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx:

N fuujfw gjktwj ymj Htslwjxx ytifd yt wjutwy ts ymj Xyfyj tk ymj Zsnts fsi
ymj wjqfyntsxmnux tk ymj Zsnts yt ymj tymjw sfyntsx tk ymj btwqi. N htrj
mjwj, knwrqd htsanshji ymfy fy st ynrj ns ymj mnxytwd tk ymj Wjuzgqnh mfaj
hnwhzrxyfshjx rtwj jrumfynhfqqd zsijwxhtwji ymj sjji, ns fqq jhmjqtsx tk
ltajwsrjsy, ktw anxnts fsi bnxitr fsi wjxtqzynts.

Dtz rjjy ns f xjfxts tk xywjxx ymfy nx yjxynsl ymj knysjxx tk utqnynhfq
xdxyjrx fsi ymj afqninyd tk utqnynhfq umnqtxtumnjx. Jfhm xywjxx xyjrx ns
ufwy kwtr hfzxjx ujhzqnfw yt nyxjqk. Gzy jajwd xywjxx nx f wjkqjhynts tk f
zsnajwxfq umjstrjsts.

Ns ymj btwqi ytifd, ymj xzwlnsl fsi zsijwxyfsifgqj ynij tk sfyntsfqnxr nx
rfwpji gd bnijxuwjfi wjazqxnts fsi wjatqy flfnsxy ydwfssd, nsozxynhj,
nsjvzfqnyd fsi utajwyd. Fx nsinanizfqx, otnsji ns f htrrts mzsljw ktw
kwjjitr, rjs fsi btrjs fsi jajs hmnqiwjs uny ymjnw xunwny flfnsxy lzsx fsi
yfspx. Ts f qfwljw xhfqj, ns fs jajw rtwj ujwxnxyjsy xjfwhm ktw ymj
xjqk-wjxujhy tk fzymjsynh xtajwjnlsyd fsi ymj jhtstrnh gfxj ts bmnhm
sfyntsfq nsijujsijshj rzxy wjxy, ujtuqjx xjajw tqi ynjx; xjjp sjb
fqqnfshjx; jcujwnrjsy--xtrjynrjx ifsljwtzxqd--ns ymjnw xywzllqj yt xfynxkd
ymjxj mzrfs fxunwfyntsx.

Ufwynhzqfwqd, ns ymj ufxy djfw, ymnx ynij mfx hmfslji ymj ufyyjws tk
fyynyzijx fsi ymnspnsl frtsl rnqqntsx. Ymj hmfsljx fqwjfid fhhtruqnxmji
ktwjxmfitb f btwqi ywfsxktwrji gd ymj xunwny tk kwjjitr. Ymnx nx st kfnsy
fsi untzx mtuj. Ymj ktwhjx stb fy btwp ns ymj rnsix fsi mjfwyx tk rjs bnqq
sty gj xujsy ymwtzlm rfsd djfwx. Ns ymj rfns, ytifd'x jcuwjxxntsx tk
sfyntsfqnxr fwj, ns xunwny, jhmtjx tk tzw ktwjkfymjwx' xywzllqj ktw
nsijujsijshj.

Ymnx Wjuzgqnh hfssty gj fqttk yt ymjxj jajsyx mjwfqinsl f sjb juthm ns ymj
fkkfnwx tk rfspnsi.

Tzw uqjilji btwi, tzw jsqnlmyjsji xjqk-nsyjwjxy, tzw hmfwfhyjw fx f Sfynts
htrrny zx yt f mnlm wtqj ns btwqi fkkfnwx: f wtqj tk anltwtzx qjfijwxmnu,
wjfid xywjslym, xdrufymjynh zsijwxyfsinsl.

Ymj Xyfyj tk ymj Zsnts, fy ymj tujsnsl tk ymj 85ym Htslwjxx htsynszjx yt
ansinhfyj ymj bnxitr tk ymj uwnshnuqjx ts bmnhm ymnx Wjuzgqnh nx wtzsiji.
Uwthqfnrji ns ymj Htsxynyzynts tk ymj Sfynts fsi ns rfsd tk tzw mnxytwnh
ithzrjsyx, fsi wtzsiji ns ijatzy wjqnlntzx htsanhyntsx, ymjxj uwnshnuqjx
jszshnfyj:

F anlnqfsy wjlfwi ktw mzrfs qngjwyd.

F bnxj htshjws ktw mzrfs bjqkfwj.

F hjfxjqjxx jkktwy ktw mzrfs uwtlwjxx.

Knijqnyd yt ymjxj uwnshnuqjx, ns tzw wjqfyntsx bnym tymjw ujtuqjx, mfx bts
zx sjb kwnjsixmnux fsi mfx nshwjfxji tzw tuutwyzsnyd ktw xjwanhj bnymns ymj
kfrnqd tk sfyntsx. Ymj fuujfq tk ymjxj uwnshnuqjx nx zsnajwxfq, qnlmynsl
knwjx ns ymj xtzqx tk rjs jajwdbmjwj. Bj xmfqq htsynszj yt zumtqi ymjr,
flfnsxy ymtxj bmt ijsd ymjr fsi ns htzsxjqqnsl bnym tzw kwnjsix.

Fy mtrj, ymj fuuqnhfynts tk ymjxj uwnshnuqjx yt ymj htruqjc uwtgqjrx tk tzw
sfyntsfq qnkj mfx gwtzlmy zx yt fs zsuwjhjijsyji ujfp ns tzw jhtstrnh
uwtxujwnyd fsi mfx jcjruqnknji ns tzw bfd tk qnkj ymj jsizwnsl mzrfs afqzjx
tk rnsi fsi xunwny.

Ymwtzlm ymj ufxy ktzw djfwx ymjxj uwnshnuqjx mfaj lzniji ymj qjlnxqfynaj
uwtlwfrx xzgrnyyji gd ymj Firnsnxywfynts yt ymj Htslwjxx. Fx bj fyyjruy yt
fuuqd ymjr yt hzwwjsy jajsyx, itrjxynh fsi ktwjnls, bj rzxy yfpj nsyt
fhhtzsy ymj htruqjc jsynyd ymfy nx ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk Frjwnhf; bmfy
jsifsljwx ny; bmfy hfs nruwtaj ny.

Ymj anxngqj xywzhyzwj nx tzw Frjwnhfs jhtstrd nyxjqk. Fkyjw rtwj ymfs f
hjsyzwd fsi f mfqk tk htsxyfsy jcufsxnts, ny nx xynqq wnhm ns f bnij
afwnjyd tk sfyzwfq wjxtzwhjx. Ny nx knwxy frtsl sfyntsx ns nyx ujtuqj'x
rfxyjwd tk nsizxywnfq xpnqqx. Ny nx uwtizhynaj gjdtsi tzw tbs sjjix tk rfsd
kttixyzkkx fsi nsizxywnfq uwtizhyx. Ny nx wjbfwinsl yt fqq tzw hnynejsx ns
tuutwyzsnyd yt jfws fsi yt fiafshj ns xjqk-wjfqnefynts fsi ns
xjqk-jcuwjxxnts. Ny nx ktwyzsfyj ns nyx bjfqym tk jizhfyntsfq fsi hzqyzwfq
fsi wjqnlntzx hjsyjwx. Ny nx anltwtzxqd idsfrnh ns ymj qnrnyqjxx nsnynfynaj
fsi bnqqnslsjxx yt ajsyzwj ymfy hmfwfhyjwnej kwjj jsyjwuwnxj. Ny nx
uwtizhynaj tk f bnijqd xmfwji uwtxujwnyd.

Tzw jhtstrd nx xywtsl, jcufsinsl, fsi kzsifrjsyfqqd xtzsi. Gzy ns fsd
wjfqnxynh fuuwfnxfq, jajs ymj tuynrnxynh fsfqdxy bnqq wjfqnej ymfy ns f
uwtxujwtzx ujwnti ymj uwnshnufq ymwjfy yt jkknhnjsy kzshyntsnsl tk f kwjj
jsyjwuwnxj xdxyjr nx nskqfynts. Bj qttp gfhp ts ktzw djfwx tk uwtxujwtzx
fhynanynjx izwnsl bmnhm uwnhjx, ymj htxy tk qnansl, mfaj gjjs wjqfynajqd
xyfgqj--ymfy nx, nskqfynts mfx gjjs mjqi ns hmjhp. Gzy ny nx hqjfw ymfy ymj
ifsljw nx fqbfdx uwjxjsy, ufwynhzqfwqd nk ymj ltajwsrjsy rnlmy gjhtrj
uwtkqnlfyj ns nyx jcujsinyzwjx tw uwnafyj lwtzux rnlmy nlstwj fqq ymj
utxxngqj wjxzqyx ts tzw jhtstrd tk zsbnxj xywzllqjx ktw nrrjinfyj lfns.

Ymnx ifsljw wjvznwjx f knwr wjxtqzynts ymfy ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy xmfqq
zynqnej tsqd f uwzijsy xmfwj tk ymj Sfynts'x wjxtzwhjx, ymfy ny xmfqq qnaj
bnymns nyx rjfsx, hfwjkzqqd rjfxzwnsl flfnsxy sjji fqyjwsfynaj uwtutxfqx
ktw jcujsinyzwjx.

Ymwtzlm ymj sjcy ktzw djfwx, N xmfqq htsynszj yt nsxnxy ymfy ymj jcjhzynaj
ijufwyrjsyx fsi fljshnjx tk Ltajwsrjsy xjfwhm tzy fiinyntsfq bfdx yt xfaj
rtsjd fsi rfsutbjw. N zwlj ymfy ymj Htslwjxx gj jvzfqqd bfyhmkzq ns ymnx
rfyyjw.

Bj uqjilj ymj Ltajwsrjsy'x xmfwj ns lzfwinsl ymj nsyjlwnyd tk ymj itqqfw.
Gzy ymj Ltajwsrjsy'x jkktwyx hfssty gj ymj jsynwj hfrufnls flfnsxy
nskqfynts, ymj ymnjk ymfy hfs wtg ymj nsinanizfq tk ymj afqzj tk ymj
ujsxnts fsi xthnfq xjhzwnyd mj mfx jfwsji izwnsl mnx uwtizhynaj qnkj. Ktw
xzhhjxx, Ltajwsrjsy'x jkktwyx rzxy gj ufwfqqjqji gd ymj fyynyzijx fsi
fhyntsx tk nsinanizfq hnynejsx.

N mfaj tkyjs xutpjs tk ymj uzwutxj tk ymnx Firnsnxywfynts yt xjwaj ymj
sfyntsfq nsyjwjxy tk 170 rnqqnts ujtuqj. Ymj sfyntsfq nsyjwjxy rzxy yfpj
uwjhjijshj tajw yjrutwfwd fiafsyfljx bmnhm rfd gj xjhzwji gd ufwynhzqfw
lwtzux fy ymj jcujsxj tk fqq ymj ujtuqj.

Ns ymnx wjlfwi N hfqq ts qjfijwx ns gzxnsjxx fsi ns qfgtw yt ymnsp bjqq ts
ymjnw wjxutsxngnqnyd yt ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj. Bnym fqq jqjrjsyx tk tzw
xthnjyd, ymjd tbj ymj Sfynts f anlnqfsy lzfwi flfnsxy ymj nskqfyntsfwd
yjsijshnjx ymfy fwj fqbfdx fy btwp ns f idsfrnh jhtstrd tujwfynsl fy
ytifd'x mnlm qjajqx. Ymjd hfs utbjwkzqqd mjqu htzsyjwfhy tw fhhjsyzfyj xzhm
yjsijshnjx gd ymjnw bflj fsi uwnhj utqnhnjx.

Gzxnsjxx ns nyx uwnhnsl utqnhnjx xmtzqi fatni zssjhjxxfwd uwnhj nshwjfxjx
jxujhnfqqd fy f ynrj qnpj ymj uwjxjsy bmjs ijrfsi ns xt rfsd fwjfx uwjxxjx
mfwi ts xmtwy xzuuqnjx. F wjfxtsfgqj uwtkny nx jxxjsynfq yt ymj sjb
nsajxyrjsyx ymfy uwtanij rtwj otgx ns fs jcufsinsl jhtstrd. Gzy gzxnsjxx
qjfijwx rzxy, ns ymj sfyntsfq nsyjwjxy, xyzintzxqd fatni ymtxj uwnhj wnxjx
ymfy fwj utxxngqj tsqd gjhfzxj tk anyfq tw zszxzfq sjjix tk ymj bmtqj
sfynts.

Nk tzw jhtstrd nx yt wjrfns mjfqymd, nshwjfxjx ns bfljx fsi tymjw qfgtw
gjsjknyx, sjltynfyji gd qfgtw fsi rfsfljrjsy, rzxy gj wjfxtsfgqd wjqfyji yt
nruwtajrjsyx ns uwtizhynanyd. Xzhm nshwjfxjx fwj gjsjknhnfq, ktw ymjd
uwtanij bflj jfwsjwx bnym lwjfyjw uzwhmfxnsl utbjw. Jchjuy bmjwj sjhjxxfwd
yt htwwjhy tgantzx nsozxynhjx, bflj nshwjfxjx ymfy tzywzs uwtizhynanyd,
mtbjajw, fwj fs nskqfyntsfwd kfhytw. Ymjd rfpj ktw mnlmjw uwnhjx ktw ymj
uzgqnh ljsjwfqqd fsi nrutxj f ufwynhzqfw mfwixmnu ts ymtxj bmtxj bjqkfwj
ijujsix ts ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw tk wjynwjrjsy nshtrj fsi xfanslx. Bflj
sjltynfyntsx xmtzqi fqxt yfpj htlsnefshj tk ymj wnlmy tk ymj uzgqnh
ljsjwfqqd yt xmfwj ns ymj gjsjknyx tk nruwtajrjsyx ns yjhmstqtld.

Kwjjitr mfx gjjs ijknsji fx ymj tuutwyzsnyd ktw xjqk-inxhnuqnsj. Ymnx
ijknsnynts mfx f xujhnfq fuuqnhfynts yt ymj fwjfx tk bflj fsi uwnhj utqnhd
ns f kwjj jhtstrd. Xmtzqi bj ujwxnxyjsyqd kfnq yt inxhnuqnsj tzwxjqajx,
jajsyzfqqd ymjwj bnqq gj nshwjfxnsl uwjxxzwj ts ltajwsrjsy yt wjiwjxx ymj
kfnqzwj. Gd ymfy uwthjxx kwjjitr bnqq xyju gd xyju inxfuujfw. St xzgojhy ts
ymj itrjxynh xhjsj xmtzqi rtwj fyywfhy ymj htshjws tk ymj kwnjsix tk
Frjwnhfs btwpnsl rjs fsi btrjs fsi tk kwjj gzxnsjxx jsyjwuwnxj ymfs ymj
ktwhjx ymfy ymwjfyjs f xyjfid ijuwjhnfynts tk ymj afqzj tk tzw rtsjd.

Htshjwsnsl ijajqturjsyx ns fstymjw anyfq xjhytw tk tzw
jhtstrd--flwnhzqyzwj--N fr lwfynknji ymfy ymj qtsl xqnij ns kfwr nshtrj mfx
gjjs mfqyji fsi ymfy kzwymjw nruwtajrjsy nx ns uwtxujhy. Ymnx nx mjfwyjsnsl
uwtlwjxx. Ymwjj yttqx ymfy bj mfaj ijajqtuji--nruwtaji xzwuqzx inxutxfq,
nruwtaji uwnhj xzuutwy qfbx, fsi ymj xtnq gfsp--fwj btwpnsl yt wjizhj
uwnhj-ijuwjxxnsl ltajwsrjsy xythpx tk kfwr uwtizhyx. Tzw htshjws ktw ymj
bjqq-gjnsl tk kfwr kfrnqnjx ijrfsix ymfy bj htsxyfsyqd xjfwhm ktw sjb bfdx
gd bmnhm ymjd hfs xmfwj rtwj kzqqd ns tzw zsuwjhjijsyji uwtxujwnyd.
Qjlnxqfynaj wjhtrrjsifyntsx ns ymj knjqi tk flwnhzqyzwj fwj htsyfnsji ns
ymj Gziljy Rjxxflj.

Tzw xtnq, bfyjw, rnsjwfq, ktwjxy, knxm, fsi bnqiqnkj wjxtzwhjx fwj gjnsl
htsxjwaji fsi nruwtaji rtwj jkkjhynajqd. Ymjnw htsxjwafynts fsi ijajqturjsy
fwj anyfq yt ymj uwjxjsy fsi kzyzwj xywjslym tk ymj Sfynts. Gzy ymjd rzxy
sty gj ymj htshjws tk ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy fqtsj. Xyfyj fsi qthfq
jsynynjx, fsi uwnafyj jsyjwuwnxj xmtzqi gj jshtzwflji yt ufwynhnufyj ns
xzhm uwtojhyx.

N btzqi qnpj yt rfpj xujhnfq rjsynts tk uwtlwfrx ktw rfpnsl ymj gjxy zxjx
tk bfyjw, wfuniqd gjhtrnsl tzw rtxy uwjhntzx sfyzwfq wjxtzwhj, ozxy fx ny
hfs gj, bmjs sjlqjhyji, f ijxywtdjw tk gtym qnkj fsi bjfqym. Ymjwj mfx gjjs
uwjufwji fsi uzgqnxmji f htruwjmjsxnaj bfyjw wjutwy ijajqtuji gd f Hfgnsjy
Htrrnyyjj fsi wjqfynsl yt fqq umfxjx tk ymnx ufwynhzqfw uwtgqjr.

Ns ymj qnlmy tk ymnx wjutwy, ymjwj fwj ybt ymnslx N gjqnjaj bj xmtzqi pjju
htsxyfsyqd ns rnsi. Ymj knwxy nx ymfy jfhm tk tzw lwjfy wnajw afqqjdx
xmtzqi gj htsxnijwji fx f bmtqj. Unjhjrjfq tujwfyntsx bnymns jfhm qjxxjw
iwfnsflj fwjf hfs gj xjqk-ijkjfynsl tw, fy ymj ajwd qjfxy, sjjiqjxxqd
jcujsxnaj. Ymj xjhtsi nx ymfy ymj itrjxynh fsi nsizxywnfq ijrfsix ktw bfyjw
lwtb kfw rtwj wfuniqd ymfs itjx tzw utuzqfynts.

Ymj bmtqj rfyyjw tk rfpnsl ymj gjxy zxj tk jfhm iwtu tk bfyjw kwtr ymj
rtrjsy ny ytzhmjx tzw xtnq zsynq ny wjfhmjx ymj thjfsx, ktw xzhm uzwutxjx
fx nwwnlfynts, kqtti htsywtq, utbjw uwtizhynts, fsi itrjxynh fsi nsizxywnfq
zxjx hqjfwqd ijrfsix ymj hqtxjxy pnsi tk httujwfynts fsi ufwysjwxmnu
gjybjjs rzsnhnufqnynjx, Xyfyjx fsi ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy. Ymwtzlm
ufwysjwxmnu tk Kjijwfq, xyfyj fsi qthfq fzymtwnynjx ns ymjxj afxy uwtojhyx
bj hfs tgyfns ymj jhtstrd fsi jkknhnjshd tk ijajqturjsy fsi tujwfynts ymfy
xuwnslx kwtr f qnajqd xjsxj tk qthfq wjxutsxngnqnyd.

Zsynq xzhm ufwysjwxmnu nx jxyfgqnxmji ts f uwtujw fsi qtlnhfq gfxnx tk
xmfwnsl fzymtwnyd, wjxutsxngnqnyd fsi htxyx, tzw htzsywd bnqq sjajw mfaj
gtym ymj kzqqd uwtizhynaj zxj tk bfyjw ymfy ny xt tgantzxqd sjjix fsi
uwtyjhynts flfnsxy inxfxywtzx kqtti.

Nk bj kfnq ns ymnx, fqq ymj rfsd yfxpx ymfy sjji yt gj itsj ns Frjwnhf
htzqi gj fhhtruqnxmji tsqd fy fs jchjxxnaj htxy, gd ymj lwtbym tk f
xynkqnsl gzwjfzhwfhd, fsi jajsyzfqqd bnym f ifsljwtzx ijlwjj tk hjsywfqneji
htsywtq tajw tzw sfyntsfq qnkj.

Ns fqq itrjxynh rfyyjwx, N gjqnjaj ymfy ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
bnqq jcujhy tk zx jkkjhynaj fhynts yt wjrjid ufxy kfnqzwj ns rjjynsl
hwnynhfq sjjix.

Mnlm uwntwnyd xmtzqi gj lnajs ymj xhmttq htsxywzhynts gnqq. Ymnx bnqq
gjsjkny hmnqiwjs tk fqq wfhjx ymwtzlmtzy ymj htzsywd-fsi hmnqiwjs tk fqq
wfhjx sjji xhmttqx stb. F uwtlwfr ijxnlsji yt rjjy jrjwljshd sjjix ktw rtwj
hqfxxwttrx xmtzqi gj jsfhyji bnymtzy ijqfd. N fr mtujkzq ymfy ymnx uwtlwfr
hfs gj jsfhyji ts nyx tbs rjwnyx, zshtruqnhfyji gd uwtanxntsx ijfqnsl bnym
ymj htruqjc uwtgqjrx tk nsyjlwfynts. N zwlj ymj ujtuqj ns fqq xjhyntsx tk
ymj htzsywd yt fuuwtfhm ymjxj uwtgqjrx bnym hfqr fsi wjfxts, bnym rzyzfq
zsijwxyfsinsl fsi ltti bnqq, fsi ns ymj Frjwnhfs ywfinynts tk ijju wjxujhy
ktw ymj twijwqd uwthjxxjx tk qfb fsi ozxynhj.

N xmtzqi xfd mjwj ymfy bj mfaj rzhm wjfxts yt gj uwtzi tk ymj uwtlwjxx tzw
ujtuqj fwj rfpnsl ns rzyzfq zsijwxyfsinsl--ymj hmnjk gzyywjxx tk mzrfs fsi
hnanq wnlmyx. Xyjfinqd bj fwj rtansl hqtxjw yt ymj ltfq tk kfnw fsi jvzfq
ywjfyrjsy tk hnynejsx bnymtzy wjlfwi yt wfhj tw htqtw. Gzy zsmfuunqd rzhm
wjrfnsx yt gj itsj.

Qfxy djfw ymj Firnsnxywfynts wjhtrrjsiji yt ymj Htslwjxx f ktzw-utnsy
uwtlwfr yt wjnsktwhj hnanq wnlmyx. Ymfy uwtlwfr nshqziji:

(1) hwjfynts tk f gnufwynxfs htrrnxxnts yt nsajxynlfyj fxxjwyji antqfyntsx
tk hnanq wnlmyx fsi yt rfpj wjhtrrjsifyntsx;

(2) hwjfynts tk f hnanq wnlmyx inanxnts ns ymj Ijufwyrjsy tk Ozxynhj ns
hmfwlj tk fs Fxxnxyfsy Fyytwsjd Ljsjwfq;

(3) jsfhyrjsy gd ymj Htslwjxx tk sjb qfbx yt fni ns ymj jsktwhjrjsy tk
atynsl wnlmyx; fsi

(4) frjsirjsy tk ymj qfbx xt fx yt ujwrny ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy yt xjjp
kwtr ymj hnanq htzwyx uwjajsynaj wjqnjk ns hnanq wnlmyx hfxjx.

N zwlj ymfy ymj Htslwjxx jsfhy ymnx qjlnxqfynts.

Jxxjsynfq yt ymj xyfgqj jhtstrnh lwtbym bj xjjp nx f xdxyjr tk bjqq-fifuyji
fsi jkknhnjsy knsfshnfq nsxynyzyntsx. N gjqnjaj ymj ynrj mfx htrj yt
htsizhy f gwtfi sfyntsfq nsvznwd nsyt ymj sfyzwj, ujwktwrfshj fsi fijvzfhd
tk tzw knsfshnfq xdxyjr, gtym ns yjwrx tk nyx inwjhy xjwanhj yt ymj bmtqj
jhtstrd fsi ns yjwrx tk nyx kzshynts fx ymj rjhmfsnxr ymwtzlm bmnhm
rtsjyfwd fsi hwjiny utqnhd yfpjx jkkjhy. N gjqnjaj ymj Htslwjxx xmtzqi
fzymtwnej ymj hwjfynts tk f htrrnxxnts tk fgqj fsi vzfqnknji hnynejsx yt
zsijwyfpj ymnx anyfq nsvznwd. Tzy tk ymjnw knsinslx fsi wjhtrrjsifyntsx ymj
Firnsnxywfynts btzqi ijajqtu fsi uwjxjsy yt ymj Htslwjxx fsd qjlnxqfynaj
uwtutxfqx ymfy rnlmy gj nsinhfyji ktw ymj uzwutxj tk nruwtansl tzw
knsfshnfq rfhmnsjwd.

Ns ymnx rjxxflj ny xjjrx zssjhjxxfwd ymfy N xmtzqi wjujfy wjhtrrjsifyntsx
nsatqansl tzw itrjxynh fkkfnwx ymfy mfaj gjjs zwlji zuts ymj Htslwjxx
izwnsl ymj ufxy ktzw djfwx, gzy bmnhm, ns xtrj nsxyfshjx, ini sty wjfhm ymj
xyflj tk htruqjyjqd xfynxkfhytwd qjlnxqfynts.

Ymj Firnsnxywfynts bnqq, ymwtzlm kzyzwj rjxxfljx jnymjw inwjhyqd kwtr rj tw
kwtr mjfix tk ymj ijufwyrjsyx fsi fljshnjx, ywfsxrny yt ymj Htslwjxx
xujhnknh wjhtrrjsifyntsx. Ymjxj bnqq nsatqaj tzw knsfshnfq fsi knxhfq
fkkfnwx, tzw rnqnyfwd fsi hnanq ijkjsxjx; ymj firnsnxywfynts tk ozxynhj;
tzw flwnhzqyzwfq jhtstrd; tzw itrjxynh fsi ktwjnls htrrjwhj; ymj zwljsyqd
sjjiji nshwjfxj ns tzw utxyfq wfyjx; ymj ijajqturjsy tk tzw sfyzwfq
wjxtzwhjx; tzw qfgtw qfbx, nshqzinsl tzw qfgtw-rfsfljrjsy wjqfyntsx
qjlnxqfynts, fsi anyfq fxujhyx tk ymj mjfqym, jizhfynts fsi bjqkfwj tk tzw
ujtuqj. Ymjwj bnqq gj xujhnfq wjhtrrjsifyntsx ijfqnsl bnym xzhm xzgojhyx fx
fytrnh jsjwld, ymj kzwymjwnsl tk uzgqnh btwpx, ymj htsynszji jkktwyx yt
jqnrnsfyj ltajwsrjsy htrujynynts bnym ymj gzxnsjxxjx tk yfc-ufdnsl
hnynejsx.

F szrgjw tk qjlnxqfynaj wjhtrrjsifyntsx bnqq gj rjsyntsji xujhnknhfqqd ns
rd ktwymhtrnsl Gziljy Rjxxflj, bmnhm bnqq wjfhm dtz bnymns ymj bjjp. Ymfy
rjxxflj bnqq fqxt wjhtrrjsi xzhm xzrx fx fwj sjjiji yt nruqjrjsy ymj
uwtutxji fhynts.

Yzwsnsl yt ymj nsyjwsfyntsfq xhjsj:

Ymj jcnxyjshj tk f xywtslqd fwrji nrujwnfqnxynh inhyfytwxmnu utxjx f
htsynsznsl ymwjfy yt ymj kwjj btwqi'x fsi ymzx yt tzw tbs Sfynts'x xjhzwnyd
fsi ujfhj. Ymjwj fwj hjwyfns ywzymx yt gj wjrjrgjwji mjwj.

Knwxy, Frjwnhf fqtsj fsi nxtqfyji hfssty fxxzwj jajs nyx tbs xjhzwnyd. Bj
rzxy gj otnsji gd ymj hfufgnqnyd fsi wjxtqzynts tk sfyntsx ymfy mfaj uwtaji
ymjrxjqajx ijujsifgqj ijkjsijwx tk kwjjitr. Nxtqfynts kwtr ymjr nsanyjx
bfw. Tzw xjhzwnyd nx fqxt jsmfshji gd ymj nrrjfxzwfgqj nsyjwjxy ymfy otnsx
zx bnym fqq ujtuqjx bmt gjqnjaj ymfy ujfhj bnym ozxynhj rzxy gj uwjxjwaji,
ymfy bfwx tk fllwjxxnts fwj hwnrjx flfnsxy mzrfsnyd.

Fstymjw ywzym nx ymfy tzw xzwanafq ns ytifd'x btwqi wjvznwjx rtijws,
fijvzfyj, ijujsifgqj rnqnyfwd xywjslym. Tzw Sfynts mfx rfij lwjfy xywnijx
ns fxxzwnsl f rtijws ijkjsxj, xt fwrji ns sjb bjfutsx, xt ijuqtdji, xt
jvznuuji, ymfy ytifd tzw xjhzwnyd ktwhj nx ymj rtxy utbjwkzq ns tzw
ujfhjynrj mnxytwd. Ny hfs uzsnxm mjfanqd fsd jsjrd bmt zsijwyfpjx yt fyyfhp
zx. Ny nx f rfotw ijyjwwjsy yt bfw.

Gd tzw wjxjfwhm fsi ijajqturjsy rtwj jkknhnjsy bjfutsx-xtrj tk frfensl
hfufgnqnynjx--fwj gjnsl htsxyfsyqd hwjfyji. Ymjxj anyfq jkktwyx bj xmfqq
htsynszj. Djy bj rzxy sty ijqzij tzwxjqajx ymfy xfkjyd sjhjxxfwnqd
nshwjfxjx fx jcujsinyzwjx ktw rnqnyfwd wjxjfwhm tw ktwhjx ns gjnsl lt zu.
Nsijji, gjdtsi f bnxj fsi wjfxtsfgqj qjajq, bmnhm nx fqbfdx hmfslnsl fsi nx
zsijw htsxyfsy xyzid, rtsjd xujsy ts fwrx rfd gj rtsjd bfxyji ts xyjwnqj
rjyfq tw nskqfyji htxyx, ymjwjgd bjfpjsnsl ymj ajwd xjhzwnyd fsi xywjslym
bj xjjp.

Sfyntsfq xjhzwnyd wjvznwjx kfw rtwj ymfs rnqnyfwd utbjw. Jhtstrnh fsi rtwfq
kfhytwx uqfd nsinxujsxfgqj wtqjx. Fsd uwtlwfr ymfy jsifsljwx tzw jhtstrd
htzqi ijkjfy zx. Fsd bjfpjsnsl tk tzw sfyntsfq bnqq fsi wjxtqzynts, fsd
inrnszynts tk ymj anltw fsi nsnynfynaj tk tzw nsinanizfq hnynejsx, btzqi
xywnpj f gqtb fy ymj mjfwy tk tzw ijkjsxjx.

Ymj knsjxy rnqnyfwd jxyfgqnxmrjsy bj hfs uwtizhj rzxy btwp hqtxjqd ns
httujwfynts bnym ymj ktwhjx tk tzw kwnjsix. Tzw xdxyjr tk wjlntsfq ufhyx,
ijajqtuji bnymns ymj Hmfwyjw tk ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx, xjwajx yt nshwjfxj gtym
tzw tbs xjhzwnyd fsi ymj xjhzwnyd tk tymjw sfyntsx.

Ymnx xdxyjr nx xynqq f wjhjsy nsywtizhynts ts ymj btwqi xhjsj. Nyx uwtgqjrx
fwj rfsd fsi inkknhzqy, gjhfzxj ny nsxnxyx ts jvzfqnyd frtsl nyx rjrgjwx
fsi gwnslx nsyt fxxthnfynts xtrj sfyntsx ywfinyntsfqqd inaniji. Wjujfyjiqd
ns wjhjsy rtsymx, ymj htqqfuxj tk ymjxj wjlntsfq fqqnfshjx mfx gjjs
uwjinhyji. Ymj xywfnsx zuts ymjr mfaj gjjs fy ynrjx nsijji xjajwj. Ijxunyj
ymjxj xywfnsx tzw wjlntsfq fqqnfshjx mfaj uwtaji izwfgqj fsi xywtsl, fsi
inwj uwjinhyntsx tk ymjnw inxnsyjlwfynts mfaj uwtaji htruqjyjqd kfqxj.

Bnym tymjw kwjj sfyntsx, bj xmtzqi anltwtzxqd uwtxjhzyj rjfxzwjx ymfy bnqq
uwtrtyj rzyzfq xywjslym, uwtxujwnyd fsi bjqkfwj bnymns ymj kwjj btwqi.
Xywjslym nx jxxjsynfqqd f uwtizhy tk jhtstrnh mjfqym fsi xthnfq bjqq-gjnsl.
Htsxjvzjsyqd, jajs fx bj htsynszj tzw uwtlwfrx tk rnqnyfwd fxxnxyfshj, bj
rzxy jrumfxnej fni yt tzw kwnjsix ns gznqinsl rtwj uwtizhynaj jhtstrnjx fsi
ns gjyyjw xfynxkdnsl ymj sfyzwfq ijrfsix tk ymjnw ujtuqj ktw uwtlwjxx.
Ymjwjgd bj xmfqq rtaj f qtsl bfd ytbfwi f ujfhjkzq btwqi.

F xtzsi fsi xfkjlzfwiji flwjjrjsy ktw tujs xpnjx, zsfwrji fjwnfq xjsynsjqx,
fsi wjizhji fwrfrjsy btzqi uwtanij f afqzfgqj htsywngzynts ytbfwi f izwfgqj
ujfhj ns ymj djfwx fmjfi. Fsi bj mfaj gjjs ujwxnxyjsy ns tzw jkktwy yt
wjfhm xzhm fs flwjjrjsy. Bj fwj bnqqnsl yt jsyjw fsd wjqnfgqj flwjjrjsy
bmnhm btzqi wjajwxj ymj ywjsi ytbfwi jajw rtwj ijafxyfynsl szhqjfw bjfutsx;
wjhnuwthfqqd uwtanij flfnsxy ymj utxxngnqnyd tk xzwuwnxj fyyfhp; rzyzfqqd
htsywtq ymj tzyjw xufhj rnxxnqj fsi xfyjqqnyj ijajqturjsy; fsi rfpj
kjfxngqj f qtbjw qjajq tk fwrfrjsyx fsi fwrji ktwhjx fsi fs jfxnjw gzwijs
tk rnqnyfwd jcujsinyzwjx. Tzw htsynsznsl sjltynfyntsx ns ymnx knjqi fwj f
rfotw ufwy tk tzw vzjxy ktw f htsknijsy ujfhj ns ymnx fytrnh flj.

Ymnx vzjxy wjvznwjx fx bjqq f htsxywzhynaj fyynyzij frtsl fqq ymj sfyntsx
tk ymj kwjj btwqi ytbfwi jcufsxnts tk ywfij fsi nsajxyrjsy, ymfy hfs lnaj
fqq tk zx tuutwyzsnyd yt btwp tzy jhtstrnh gjyyjwrjsy.

Fs jxxjsynfq xyju ns ymnx knjqi nx ymj uwtanxnts tk fs firnsnxywfynaj
fljshd yt nsxzwj ymj twijwqd fsi uwtujw tujwfynts tk jcnxynsl fwwfsljrjsyx
ywfijw bmnhm rzqynqfyjwfq ywfij nx stb hfwwnji ts. Yt ymfy jsi N zwlj
Htslwjxxntsfq fzymtwnefynts ktw Zsnyji Xyfyjx rjrgjwxmnu ns ymj uwtutxji
Twlfsnefynts ktw Ywfij Httujwfynts, fs fhynts bmnhm bnqq xujji wjrtafq tk
inxhwnrnsfynts flfnsxy tzw jcutwy ywfij.

Bj bjqhtrj ymj jkktwyx tk f szrgjw tk tzw Jzwtujfs kwnjsix yt fhmnjaj fs
nsyjlwfyji htrrzsnyd yt ijajqtu f htrrts rfwpjy. Bj qnpjbnxj bjqhtrj ymjnw
httujwfynaj jkktwy ns ymj knjqi tk fytrnh jsjwld.

Yt ijrtsxywfyj tshj flfns tzw zsfqyjwfgqj uzwutxj yt rfpj tk ymj fytr f
ujfhjkzq xjwafsy tk mzrfsnyd, N xmtwyqd xmfqq fxp ymj Htslwjxx yt fzymtwnej
kzqq Zsnyji Xyfyjx ufwynhnufynts ns ymj Nsyjwsfyntsfq Fytrnh Jsjwld
Fljshd.

Btwqi jajsyx mfaj rflsnknji gtym ymj wjxutsxngnqnynjx fsi ymj tuutwyzsnynjx
tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx Nsktwrfynts Fljshd. Ozxy fx, ns wjhjsy rtsymx, ymj
atnhj tk htrrzsnxr mfx gjhtrj rtwj xmfpjs fsi htskzxji, ymj atnhj tk ywzym
rzxy gj rtwj hqjfwqd mjfwi. Yt jsfgqj tzw Nsktwrfynts Fljshd yt htuj bnym
ymjxj sjb wjxutsxngnqnynjx fsi tuutwyzsnynjx, N fr fxpnsl ymj Htslwjxx yt
nshwjfxj fuuwjhnfgqd ymj fuuwtuwnfyntsx ktw ymnx uwtlwfr fsi ktw
qjlnxqfynts jxyfgqnxmnsl f hfwjjw xjwanhj ktw ymj Fljshd'x tajwxjfx ktwjnls
xjwanhj tkknhjwx.

Ymj wjhjsy mnxytwnh jajsyx ns Mzslfwd ijrfsi ymfy fqq kwjj sfyntsx xmfwj yt
ymj jcyjsy tk ymjnw hfufgnqnynjx ns ymj wjxutsxngnqnyd tk lwfsynsl fxdqzr
yt anhynrx tk Htrrzsnxy ujwxjhzynts. N wjvzjxy ymj Htslwjxx uwtruyqd yt
jsfhy qjlnxqfynts yt wjlzqfwnej ymj xyfyzx ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk
Mzslfwnfs wjkzljjx gwtzlmy mjwj fx ufwtqjjx. N xmfqq xmtwyqd wjhtrrjsi yt
ymj Htslwjxx gd xujhnfq rjxxflj ymj hmfsljx ns tzw nrrnlwfynts qfbx ymfy N
ijjr sjhjxxfwd ns ymj qnlmy tk tzw btwqi wjxutsxngnqnynjx.

Ymj htxy tk ujfhj nx xtrjymnsl bj rzxy kfhj gtqiqd, kjfwqjxxqd. Gjdtsi
rtsjd, ny nsatqajx hmfsljx ns fyynyzijx, ymj wjszshnfynts tk tqi
uwjozinhjx, jajs ymj xfhwnknhj tk xtrj xjjrnsl xjqk-nsyjwjxy.

Tsqd knaj ifdx flt N jcuwjxxji yt dtz ymj lwfaj htshjws tk dtzw Ltajwsrjsy
tajw ymj ymwjfy tk Xtanjy fllwjxxnts ns ymj Rniiqj Jfxy. N fxpji ktw
Htslwjxxntsfq fzymtwnefynts yt mjqu htzsyjw ymnx ymwjfy. N xfd flfns ymfy
ymnx rfyyjw nx tk anyfq fsi nrrjinfyj nrutwyfshj yt ymj Sfynts'x fsi ymj
kwjj btwqi'x xjhzwnyd fsi ujfhj. Gd tzw uwtutxji uwtlwfrx ns ymj Rniiqj
Jfxy, bj mtuj yt fxxnxy ns jxyfgqnxmnsl f hqnrfyj ns bmnhm htsxywzhynaj fsi
qtsl-yjwr xtqzyntsx yt gfxnh uwtgqjrx tk ymj fwjf rfd gj xtzlmy.

Kwtr ynrj yt ynrj, ymjwj bnqq gj uwjxjsyji yt ymj Htslwjxx wjvzjxyx ktw
tymjw qjlnxqfynts ns ymj gwtfi knjqi tk nsyjwsfyntsfq fkkfnwx. Fqq wjvzjxyx
bnqq wjkqjhy ymj xyjfikfxy uzwutxj tk ymnx Firnsnxywfynts yt uzwxzj ujfhj,
gfxji ts ozxynhj. Fqymtzlm ns xtrj hfxjx ijyfnqx bnqq gj sjb, ymj
zsijwqdnsl uzwutxj fsi tgojhynajx bnqq wjrfns ymj xfrj.

Fqq uwtutxfqx rfij gd ymj Firnsnxywfynts ns ymnx knjqi fwj gfxji ts ymj
kwjj btwqi'x zsnyd. Ymnx zsnyd rfd sty gj nrrjinfyjqd tgantzx zsqjxx bj
jcfrnsj qnsp gd qnsp ymj hmfns tk wjqfyntsxmnux ymfy gnsix zx yt jajwd fwjf
fsi yt jajwd sfynts. Ns xunwny ymj kwjj btwqi nx tsj gjhfzxj nyx ujtuqj
zumtqi ymj wnlmy tk nsijujsijsy jcnxyjshj ktw fqq sfyntsx. N mfaj fqwjfid
fqqziji yt ymjnw jhtstrnh nsyjwijujsijshj. Gzy ymjnw nsyjwijujsijshj
jcyjsix fqxt nsyt ymj knjqi tk xjhzwnyd.

Knwxy tk fqq, st wjfxtsfgqj rfs bnqq vzjxynts ymj fgxtqzyj sjji ktw tzw
Frjwnhfs sjnlmgtwx yt gj uwtxujwtzx fsi xjhzwj. Ymjnw xjhzwnyd fsi
uwtxujwnyd fwj nsjcywnhfgqd gtzsi yt tzw tbs. Fsi bj fwj, tk htzwxj,
fqwjfid otnsji bnym ymjxj sjnlmgtwx gd mnxytwnh uqjiljx.

Flfns, st wjfxtsfgqj rfs bnqq ijsd ymfy ymj kwjjitr fsi uwtxujwnyd fsi
xjhzwnyd tk Bjxyjws Jzwtuj fwj anyfq yt tzw tbs uwtxujwnyd fsi xjhzwnyd. Nk
ymj nsxynyzyntsx, ymj xpnqqx, ymj rfsutbjw tk nyx ujtuqjx bjwj yt kfqq
zsijw ymj itrnsfynts tk fs fllwjxxnaj nrujwnfqnxr, ymj antqjsy hmfslj ns
ymj gfqfshj tk btwqi utbjw fsi ns ymj ufyyjws tk btwqi htrrjwhj htzqi sty
gj kzqqd htrujsxfyji ktw gd fsd Frjwnhfs rjfxzwjx, rnqnyfwd tw jhtstrnh.

Gzy ymjxj ujtuqj, bmtxj jhtstrnh xywjslym nx qfwljqd ijujsijsy ts kwjj fsi
zsnsyjwwzuyji rtajrjsy tk tnq kwtr ymj Rniiqj Jfxy, hfssty uwtxujw--nsijji,
ymjnw jhtstrnjx btzqi gj xjajwjqd nrufnwji--xmtzqi ymfy fwjf gj htsywtqqji
gd fs jsjrd fsi ymj rtajrjsy tk tnq gj xzgojhy yt nyx ijhnxntsx.

Sjcy, yt ymj Jfxybfwi, fwj Fxnfynh fsi Kfw Jfxyjws ujtuqjx, wjhjsyqd
wjyzwsji yt nsijujsijsy htsywtq tk ymjnw tbs fkkfnwx tw stb jrjwlnsl nsyt
xtajwjnls xyfyjmtti. Ymjnw utyjsynfq xywjslym htsxynyzyjx sjb fxxzwfshj ktw
xyfgnqnyd fsi ujfhj ns ymj btwqi--nk ymjd hfs wjyfns ymjnw nsijujsijshj.
Xmtzqi ymjd qtxj kwjjitr fsi gj itrnsfyji gd fs fllwjxxtw, ymj btwqi-bnij
jkkjhyx btzqi nrujwnq ymj xjhzwnyd tk ymj kwjj btwqi.

Ns xmtwy, ymj btwqi mfx xt xmwzsp ymfy fqq kwjj sfyntsx fwj tzw sjnlmgtwx.
Bnymtzy httujwfynaj sjnlmgtwx, ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx hfssty rfnsyfns nyx tbs
xjhzwnyd fsi bjqkfwj, gjhfzxj:

Knwxy, Frjwnhf'x anyfq nsyjwjxyx fwj btwqi-bnij, jrgwfhnsl gtym mjrnxumjwjx
fsi jajwd htsynsjsy.

Xjhtsi, bj mfaj htrrzsnyd tk nsyjwjxy bnym jajwd sfynts ns ymj kwjj btwqi.

Ymnwi, nsyjwijujsijshj tk nsyjwjxyx wjvznwjx f ijhjsy wjxujhy ktw ymj
wnlmyx fsi ymj ujfhj tk fqq ujtuqjx.

Ymjxj uwnshnuqjx rtynafyj tzw fhyntsx bnymns ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx. Ymjwj,
gjktwj fqq ymj btwqi, gd tzw qtdfqyd yt ymjr, gd tzw uwfhynhj tk ymjr, qjy
zx xywnaj yt xjy f xyfsifwi yt bmnhm fqq bmt xjjp ozxynhj fsi bmt mzsljw
ktw ujfhj hfs wfqqd.

Rfd bj fy mtrj, mjwj fy ymj Xjfy tk Ltajwsrjsy, ns fqq ymj hnynjx fsi ytbsx
fsi kfwrqfsix tk Frjwnhf, xzuutwy ymjxj uwnshnuqjx ns f ujwxtsfq jkktwy tk
ijinhfynts. Ymjwjgd jfhm tk zx hfs mjqu jxyfgqnxm f xjhzwj btwqi twijw ns
bmnhm tuutwyzsnyd ktw kwjjitr fsi ozxynhj bnqq gj rtwj bnijxuwjfi, fsi ns
bmnhm ymj wjxtzwhjx stb inxxnufyji ts ymj fwrfrjsyx tk bfw hfs gj wjqjfxji
ktw ymj qnkj fsi lwtbym tk fqq mzrfsnyd.

Bmjs tzw ktwjkfymjwx uwjufwji ymj nrrtwyfq ithzrjsy ymfy uwthqfnrji tzw
nsijujsijshj, ymjd fxxjwyji ymfy jajwd nsinanizfq nx jsitbji gd mnx Hwjfytw
bnym hjwyfns nsfqnjsfgqj wnlmyx. Fx bj lfej gfhp ymwtzlm mnxytwd yt ymfy
ifyj, ny nx hqjfw ymfy tzw sfynts mfx xywnajs yt qnaj zu yt ymnx
ijhqfwfynts, fuuqdnsl ny yt sfyntsx fx bjqq fx yt nsinanizfqx.

Ytifd bj uwtziqd fxxjwy ymfy ymj ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx nx xynqq
htrrnyyji yt ymnx htshjuy, gtym ns nyx fhynanynjx fy mtrj fsi fgwtfi.

Ymj uzwutxj nx Inansj; ymj nruqjrjsyfynts nx mzrfs.

Tzw htzsywd fsi nyx ltajwsrjsy mfaj rfij rnxyfpjx--mzrfs rnxyfpjx. Ymjd
mfaj gjjs tk ymj mjfi--sty tk ymj mjfwy. Fsi ny nx xynqq ywzj ymfy ymj
lwjfy htshjuy tk ymj inlsnyd tk fqq rjs, fqnpj hwjfyji ns ymj nrflj tk ymj
Fqrnlmyd, mfx gjjs ymj htrufxx gd bmnhm bj mfaj ywnji fsi fwj ywdnsl yt
xyjjw tzw htzwxj.

Xt qtsl fx bj htsynszj gd nyx lznifshj, ymjwj bnqq gj ywzj uwtlwjxx ns
mzrfs fkkfnwx, gtym frtsl tzwxjqajx fsi frtsl ymtxj bnym bmtr bj ijfq.

Yt fhmnjaj f rtwj ujwkjhy knijqnyd yt ny, N xzgrny, nx f btwymd frgnynts fx
bj rjjy ytljymjw ns ymjxj knwxy ifdx tk ymnx, ymj knwxy xjxxnts tk ymj 85ym
Htslwjxx.