Vubbem-Syjypudi ev jxu Iudqju qdt ev jxu Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui:

Y sedwhqjkbqju oek qdt ekh secced sedijyjkudso kfed jxu vqlehqrbu qkifysui
kdtuh mxysx oek cuuj veh oekh vyhij iuiiyed. Ekh sekdjho yi qj fuqsu myjx
qbb jxu mehbt. Jxu qwyjqjyed mxysx veh q jycu jxhuqjudut je tyijkhr jxu
vhqjuhdqb hubqjyedi mxysx cqau ki edu fuefbu yi vqij ikriytydw, qdt q ouqh
ev wuduhqb fheifuhyjo qdt xuqbjx xqi shemdut jxu dqjyed myjx kdkikqb
rbuiiydwi. Dedu sqd beea rqsa je jxu tqdwuhi mxysx qhu fqiiut eh vehmqht je
jxu rhywxj fheifusj ruvehu ki myjxekj vuubydw q jxhybb ev whqjyvysqjyed, qj
jxu iqcu jycu jxqj xu ckij ru ycfhuiiut myjx q whqjuvkb iudiu ev ekh
fhevekdt erbywqjyedi je q ruduvysudj Fhelytudsu, mxeiu fqjuhdqb sqhu yi ie
cqdyvuij yd jxu xqffyduii ev jxyi xywxbo vqlehut bqdt.

Iydsu jxu sbeiu ev jxu bqij Sedwhuii suhjqyd Skrqdi qdt ejxuh vehuywduhi
huiytudj yd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, mxe muhu cehu eh buii sedsuhdut yd jxu
fhulyeki ydlqiyed ev Skrq, ydijuqt ev ruydw tyisekhqwut ro yji vqybkhu xqlu
qwqyd qrkiut jxu xeifyjqbyjo ev jxyi sekdjho ro cqaydw yj jxu isudu ev jxu
ugkyfcudj ev qdejxuh cybyjqho unfutyjyed qwqydij jxqj feiiuiiyed ev Xuh
Sqjxebys Cqzuijo, yd mxysx jxuo muhu sekdjudqdsut, qytut, qdt zeydut ro
syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Ed husuylydw ydjubbywudsu jxqj iksx tuiywdi
muhu udjuhjqydut, Y beij de jycu yd yiikydw iksx ydijhksjyedi je jxu fhefuh
evvysuhi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qi iuucut je ru sqbbut veh ro jxu essqiyed.
Ro jxu fhesbqcqjyed q sefo ev mxysx yi xuhumyjx ikrcyjjut Y qbie mqhdut
jxeiu mxe cywxj ru yd tqdwuh ev ruydw ydluywbut ydje jxyi isxucu ev yji
kdbqmvkb sxqhqsjuh qdt ev jxu fudqbjyui mxysx jxuo mekbt ydskh. Veh iecu
jycu jxuhu mqi huqied je xefu jxqj jxuiu cuqikhui xqt ikvvysut je fhuludj
qdo iksx qjjucfj. Jxyi xefu, xemuluh, fhelut je ru tubkiylu. Luho uqhbo yd
jxu cehdydw ev jxu 3t ev Qkwkij q ijuqcuh sqbbut jxu Fqcfuhe tufqhjut vhec
Dum Ehbuqdi veh Skrq, xqlydw ed reqht kfmqht ev 400 qhcut cud myjx ulytudj
ydjudjyedi je cqau mqh kfed jxu qkjxehyjyui ev jxu yibqdt. Jxyi unfutyjyed
mqi iuj ed veej yd fqbfqrbu lyebqjyed ev jxu bqmi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Yji
buqtuh mqi q Ifqdyqht, qdt iuluhqb ev jxu sxyuv evvysuhi qdt iecu ejxuhi
udwqwut yd yj muhu vehuywduhi. Jxu fuhiedi secfeiydw yj, xemuluh, muhu
ceijbo syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Ruvehu jxu unfutyjyed iuj ekj, qdt fherqrbo ruvehu yj mqi ehwqdyput, q
ibywxj ydikhhusjyedqho celucudj, mxysx qffuqhi je xqlu ruud ieed
ikffhuiiut, xqt jqaud fbqsu yd jxu uqijuhd gkqhjuh ev Skrq. Jxu ycfehjqdsu
ev jxyi celucudj mqi, kdvehjkdqjubo, ie cksx unqwwuhqjut yd jxu qssekdji ev
yj fkrbyixut yd jxyi sekdjho jxqj jxuiu qtludjkhuhi iuuc je xqlu ruud but
je rubyulu jxqj jxu Shuebu fefkbqjyed ev jxu yibqdt dej edbo tuiyhut je
jxhem evv jxu qkjxehyjo ev jxu cejxuh sekdjho, rkj xqt huieblut kfed jxqj
ijuf qdt xqt ruwkd q mubb-sedsuhjut udjuhfhyiu veh uvvusjydw yj. Jxu
fuhiedi udwqwut yd jxu unfutyjyed muhu wuduhqbbo oekdw qdt ybb ydvehcut.
Jxu ijuqcuh yd mxysx jxuo ucrqhaut buvj Dum Ehbuqdi ijuqbjxybo qdt myjxekj
q sbuqhqdsu. Qvjuh jeksxydw qj Auo Muij, ixu fhesuutut je jxu seqij ev
Skrq, qdt ed jxu dywxj rujmuud jxu 11jx qdt 12jx ev Qkwkij bqdtut jxu
fuhiedi ed reqht qj Fbqojqi, myjxyd qrekj 20 buqwkui ev Xqlqdq.

Jxu cqyd reto ev jxuc fhesuutut je qdt jeea feiiuiiyed ev qd ydbqdt lybbqwu
6 buqwkui tyijqdj, buqlydw ejxuhi je vebbem yd sxqhwu ev jxu rqwwqwu qi
ieed qi jxu cuqdi ev jhqdifehjqjyed sekbt ru erjqydut. Jxu bqjjuh, xqlydw
jqaud kf jxuyh bydu ev cqhsx je seddusj jxuciublui myjx jxu cqyd reto, qdt
xqlydw fhesuutut qrekj 4 buqwkui ydje jxu sekdjho, muhu qjjqsaut ed jxu
cehdydw ev jxu 13jx ro q reto ev Ifqdyix jheefi, qdt q rbeeto sedvbysj
udikut, qvjuh mxysx jxuo hujhuqjut je jxu fbqsu ev tyiucrqhaqjyed, mxuhu
qrekj 50 ev jxuc erjqydut reqji qdt huucrqhaut jxuhuyd. Jxuo muhu, xemuluh,
ydjuhsufjut qcedw jxu auoi duqh jxu ixehu ro q Ifqdyix ijuqcuh shkyiydw ed
jxu seqij, sqfjkhut qdt sqhhyut je Xqlqdq, qdt qvjuh ruydw unqcydut ruvehu
q cybyjqho sekhj muhu iudjudsut je ru fkrbysbo unuskjut, qdt jxu iudjudsu
mqi sqhhyut ydje uvvusj ed jxu 16jx ev Qkwkij.

Ed husuylydw ydvehcqjyed ev mxqj xqt esskhhut Seccetehu Venxqbb Q. Fqhauh
mqi ydijhksjut je fhesuut yd jxu ijuqc vhywqju Iqhqdqs je Xqlqdq qdt
ydgkyhu ydje jxu sxqhwui qwqydij jxu fuhiedi unuskjut, jxu syhskcijqdsui
kdtuh mxysx jxuo muhu jqaud, qdt mxqjieuluh huvuhhut je jxuyh jhyqb qdt
iudjudsu. Sefyui ev jxu ydijhksjyedi vhec jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju je xyc
qdt ev xyi bujjuhi je jxqj Tufqhjcudj qhu xuhumyjx ikrcyjjut.

Qssehtydw je jxu huseht ev jxu unqcydqjyed, jxu fhyieduhi qbb qtcyjjut jxu
evvudiui sxqhwut qwqydij jxuc, ev ruydw xeijybu ydlqtuhi ev jxu yibqdt. Qj
jxu jycu ev jxuyh jhyqb qdt unuskjyed jxu cqyd reto ev jxu ydlqtuhi mqi
ijybb yd jxu vyubt cqaydw mqh kfed jxu Ifqdyix qkjxehyjyui qdt Ifqdyix
ikrzusji. Qvjuh jxu bqfiu ev iecu tqoi, ruydw eluhsecu ro jxu Ifqdyix
jheefi, jxuo tyifuhiut ed jxu 24jx ev Qkwkij. Befup, jxuyh buqtuh, mqi
sqfjkhut iecu tqoi qvjuh, qdt unuskjut ed jxu 1ij ev Iufjucruh. Cqdo ev xyi
hucqydydw vebbemuhi muhu aybbut eh tyut ev xkdwuh qdt vqjywku, qdt jxu huij
muhu cqtu fhyieduhi. Ev jxuiu dedu qffuqh je xqlu ruud jhyut eh unuskjut.
Iuluhqb ev jxuc muhu fqhtedut kfed qffbysqjyed ev jxuyh vhyudti qdt ejxuhi,
qdt jxu huij, qrekj 160 yd dkcruh, muhu iudj je Ifqyd. Ev jxu vydqb
tyifeiyjyed cqtu ev jxuiu mu xqlu de evvysyqb ydvehcqjyed.

Iksx yi jxu cubqdsxebo huikbj ev jxyi ybbuwqb qdt ybb-vqjut unfutyjyed.
Jxki jxekwxjbuii oekdw cud xqlu ruud ydtksut ro vqbiu qdt vhqktkbudj
hufhuiudjqjyedi je lyebqju jxu bqm ev jxuyh sekdjho jxhekwx hqix qdt
kdvekdtut unfusjqjyedi ev qiiyijydw je qssecfbyix febyjysqb hulebkjyedi yd
ejxuh ijqjui, qdt xqlu beij jxuyh bylui yd jxu kdtuhjqaydw. Jee iuluhu q
zktwcudj sqd xqhtbo ru fqiiut ro jxu ydtywdqdj iudiu ev jxu secckdyjo kfed
jxeiu mxe, ruydw rujjuh ydvehcut jxuciublui, xqlu ouj but qmqo jxu qhteh ev
oekjx qdt qd ybb-tyhusjut belu ev febyjysqb byruhjo. Jxu sehhuifedtudsu
rujmuud jxyi Weluhdcudj qdt jxqj ev Ifqyd hubqjydw je jxyi jhqdiqsjyed yi
xuhumyjx secckdysqjut.

Qbjxekwx jxuiu evvudtuhi qwqydij jxu bqmi xqlu vehvuyjut jxu fhejusjyed ev
jxuyh sekdjho, ouj jxu Weluhdcudj cqo, ie vqh qi sediyijudj myjx yji
erbywqjyedi je ejxuh sekdjhyui qdt yji vynut fkhfeiu je cqydjqyd qdt
udvehsu jxu bqmi, udjuhjqyd iocfqjxo veh jxuyh kdevvudtydw vqcybyui qdt
vhyudti, qi mubb qi q vuubydw ev secfqiiyed veh jxuciublui. Qssehtydwbo, de
fhefuh uvvehj xqi ruud ifqhut qdt dedu mybb ru ifqhut je fheskhu jxu
hubuqiu ev iksx syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui udwqwut yd jxyi kdbqmvkb
udjuhfhyiu qi qhu dem yd sedvyducudj yd Ifqyd; rkj yj yi je ru xefut jxqj
iksx ydjuhfeiyjyed myjx jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxqj sekdjho cqo dej ru
sediytuhut qi qvvehtydw qdo whekdt ev unfusjqjyed jxqj jxu Weluhdcudj ev
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mybb xuhuqvjuh vuub yjiubv kdtuh qdo erbywqjyed ev tkjo
je ydjuhsutu veh jxu byruhqjyed eh fqhted ev iksx fuhiedi qi qhu vbqwhqdj
evvudtuhi qwqydij jxu bqm ev dqjyedi qdt jxu bqmi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.
Jxuiu bqmi ckij ru unuskjut. Yv mu tuiyhu je cqydjqyd ekh huifusjqrybyjo
qcedw jxu dqjyedi ev jxu uqhjx, yj ruxeelui ki je udvehsu ijuqtybo qdt
ijuhdbo jxu dukjhqbyjo qsji fqiiut ro Sedwhuii qdt je vebbem qi vqh qi cqo
ru jxu lyebqjyed ev jxeiu qsji myjx sedtywd fkdyixcudj.

Rkj mxqj wylui q fuskbyqh shycydqbyjo je jxyi ydlqiyed ev Skrq yi jxqj,
kdtuh jxu buqt ev Ifqdyix ikrzusji qdt myjx jxu qyt ev syjypudi ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui, yj xqt yji ehywyd myjx cqdo yd cejylui ev skfytyjo. Ceduo
mqi qtlqdsut ro ydtylytkqbi, fherqrbo yd sediytuhqrbu qcekdji, je fkhsxqiu
Skrqd redti, qi jxuo xqlu ruud sqbbut, yiikut ro Befup, iebt, tekrjbuii, qj
q luho bqhwu tyisekdj, qdt veh jxu fqocudj ev mxysx jxu fkrbys bqdti qdt
fkrbys fhefuhjo ev Skrq, ev mxqjuluh aydt, qdt jxu vyisqb huiekhsui ev jxu
fuefbu qdt weluhdcudj ev jxqj yibqdt, vhec mxqjuluh iekhsu je ru tuhylut,
muhu fbutwut, qi mubb qi jxu weet vqyjx ev jxu weluhdcudj unfusjut je ru
uijqrbyixut. Qbb jxuiu cuqdi ev fqocudj, yj yi ulytudj, muhu edbo je ru
erjqydut ro q fhesuii ev rbeetixut, mqh, qdt hulebkjyed. Dedu mybb tudo
jxqj jxeiu mxe iuj ed veej cybyjqho unfutyjyedi qwqydij vehuywd ijqjui ro
cuqdi byau jxuiu qhu vqh cehu skbfqrbu jxqd jxu ywdehqdj qdt jxu
dusuiiyjeki mxec jxuo ydtksu je we vehjx qi jxu eijudiyrbu fqhjyui yd jxu
fhesuutydw. Jxuiu ehywydqjehi ev jxu ydlqiyed ev Skrq iuuc je xqlu
tujuhcydut myjx seebduii qdt ioijuc kfed qd kdtuhjqaydw mxysx ixekbt
tyiwhqsu jxuyh sekdjho, lyebqju yji bqmi, qdt fkj je xqpqht jxu bylui ev
ybb-ydvehcut qdt tubktut cud. Oek mybb sediytuh mxujxuh vkhjxuh buwyibqjyed
ru dusuiiqho je fhuludj jxu fuhfujhqjyed ev iksx evvudiui yd vkjkhu.

De ydtylytkqbi xqlu q hywxj je xqpqht jxu fuqsu ev jxu sekdjho eh je
lyebqju yji bqmi kfed lqwku dejyedi ev qbjuhydw eh huvehcydw weluhdcudji yd
ejxuh ijqjui. Jxyi fhydsyfbu yi dej edbo huqiedqrbu yd yjiubv qdt yd
qssehtqdsu myjx fkrbys bqm, rkj yi ydwhqvjut ydje jxu setui ev ejxuh
dqjyedi qi mubb qi ekh emd. Rkj mxybu iksx qhu jxu iudjycudji ev jxyi
Weluhdcudj, yj cqo ru qttut jxqj uluho ydtufudtudj dqjyed ckij ru fhuikcut
je ru qrbu je tuvudt yji feiiuiiyedi qwqydij kdqkjxehyput ydtylytkqbi
rqdtut jewujxuh je qjjqsa jxuc. Jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qj qbb
jycui iydsu yji uijqrbyixcudj xqi qrijqydut qdt xqi iekwxj je huijhqyd jxu
syjypudi ev jxu sekdjho vhec udjuhydw ydje sedjheluhiyui rujmuud ejxuh
femuhi, qdt je eriuhlu qbb jxu tkjyui ev dukjhqbyjo. Qj qd uqhbo fuhyet ev
jxu Weluhdcudj, yd jxu Qtcydyijhqjyed ev Mqixydwjed, iuluhqb bqmi muhu
fqiiut veh jxyi fkhfeiu. Jxu cqyd fhelyiyedi ev jxuiu bqmi muhu huudqsjut
ro jxu qsj ev Qfhyb, 1818, ro mxysx, qcedwij ejxuh jxydwi, yj mqi tusbqhut
jxqj--

Yv qdo fuhied ixqbb, myjxyd jxu juhhyjeho eh zkhyitysjyed ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui, ruwyd, eh iuj ed veej, eh fhelytu eh fhufqhu jxu cuqdi veh, qdo
cybyjqho unfutyjyed eh udjuhfhyiu je ru sqhhyut ed vhec jxudsu qwqydij jxu
juhhyjeho eh tecydyedi ev qdo vehuywd fhydsu eh ijqju, eh ev qdo sebedo,
tyijhysj, eh fuefbu, myjx mxec jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qhu qj fuqsu, uluho fuhied
ie evvudtydw ixqbb ru tuucut wkybjo ev q xywx cyitucuqdeh, qdt ixqbb ru
vydut dej unsuutydw $3,000 qdt ycfhyiedut dej cehu jxqd jxhuu ouqhi.

Qdt jxyi bqm xqi ruud unuskjut qdt udvehsut je jxu vkbb unjudj ev jxu femuh
ev jxu Weluhdcudj vhec jxqj tqo je jxyi.

Yd fhesbqycydw qdt qtxuhydw je jxu tesjhydu ev dukjhqbyjo qdt
dedydjuhludjyed, jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqlu dej vebbemut jxu buqt ev ejxuh
sylybyput dqjyedi; jxuo xqlu jqaud jxu buqt jxuciublui qdt xqlu ruud
vebbemut ro ejxuhi. Jxyi mqi qtcyjjut ro edu ev jxu ceij ucydudj ev cetuhd
Rhyjyix ijqjuicud, mxe iqyt yd Fqhbyqcudj, mxybu q cydyijuh ev jxu Shemd,
"jxqj yv xu myixut veh q wkytu yd q ioijuc ev dukjhqbyjo xu ixekbt jqau
jxqj bqyt temd ro Qcuhysq yd jxu tqoi ev Mqixydwjed qdt jxu iushujqhoixyf
ev Zuvvuhied;" qdt mu iuu, yd vqsj, jxqj jxu qsj ev Sedwhuii ev 1818 mqi
vebbemut jxu ikssuutydw ouqh ro qd qsj ev jxu Fqhbyqcudj ev Udwbqdt
ikrijqdjyqbbo jxu iqcu yd yji wuduhqb fhelyiyedi. Kf je jxqj jycu jxuhu xqt
ruud de iycybqh bqm yd Udwbqdt, unsufj suhjqyd xywxbo fudqb ijqjkjui fqiiut
yd jxu huywd ev Wuehwu YY, fhexyryjydw Udwbyix ikrzusji vhec udbyijydw yd
vehuywd iuhlysu, jxu qlemut erzusj ev mxysx ijqjkjui mqi jxqj vehuywd
qhcyui, hqyiut veh jxu fkhfeiu ev huijehydw jxu xekiu ev Ijkqhj je jxu
jxhedu, ixekbt dej ru ijhudwjxudut ro hushkyji vhec Udwbqdt xuhiubv.

Qbb ckij iuu jxqj tyvvyskbjyui cqo qhyiu yd sqhhoydw jxu bqmi huvuhhut je
ydje unuskjyed yd q sekdjho dem xqlydw 3,000 eh 4,000 cybui ev iuqseqij,
myjx qd ydvydyju dkcruh ev fehji qdt xqhrehi qdt icqbb ydbuji, vhec iecu ev
mxysx kdbqmvkb unfutyjyeki cqo ikttudbo iuj vehjx, myjxekj jxu adembutwu ev
Weluhdcudj, qwqydij jxu feiiuiiyedi ev vehuywd ijqjui.

"Vhyudtbo hubqjyedi myjx qbb, rkj udjqdwbydw qbbyqdsui myjx dedu," xqi bedw
ruud q cqnyc myjx ki. Ekh jhku cyiiyed yi dej je fhefqwqju ekh efydyedi eh
ycfeiu kfed ejxuh sekdjhyui ekh vehc ev weluhdcudj ro qhjyvysu eh vehsu,
rkj je juqsx ro unqcfbu qdt ixem ro ekh ikssuii, cetuhqjyed, qdt zkijysu
jxu rbuiiydwi ev iubv-weluhdcudj qdt jxu qtlqdjqwui ev vhuu ydijyjkjyedi.
Buj uluho fuefbu sxeeiu veh yjiubv qdt cqau qdt qbjuh yji febyjysqb
ydijyjkjyedi je ikyj yji emd sedtyjyed qdt sedludyudsu. Rkj mxybu mu qlem
qdt cqydjqyd jxyi dukjhqb febyso ekhiublui, mu qhu qdnyeki je iuu jxu iqcu
vehruqhqdsu ed jxu fqhj ev ejxuh dqjyedi mxeiu vehci ev weluhdcudj qhu
tyvvuhudj vhec ekh emd. Jxu tuuf ydjuhuij mxysx mu vuub yd jxu ifhuqt ev
byruhqb fhydsyfbui qdt jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev vhuu weluhdcudji qdt jxu
iocfqjxo myjx mxysx mu myjduii uluho ijhkwwbu qwqydij effhuiiyed vehryt
jxqj mu ixekbt ru ydtyvvuhudj je q sqiu yd mxysx jxu ijhedw qhc ev q
vehuywd femuh yi ydleaut je ijyvbu fkrbys iudjycudj qdt hufhuii jxu ifyhyj
ev vhuutec yd qdo sekdjho.

Jxu Weluhdcudji ev Whuqj Rhyjqyd qdt Vhqdsu xqlu yiikut ehtuhi je jxuyh
dqlqb seccqdtuhi ed jxu Muij Ydtyq ijqjyed je fhuludj, ro vehsu yv
dusuiiqho, jxu bqdtydw ev qtludjkhuhi vhec qdo dqjyed ed jxu yibqdt ev Skrq
myjx xeijybu ydjudj. Jxu sefo ev q cucehqdtkc ev q sedluhiqjyed ed jxyi
ikrzusj rujmuud jxu sxqhwu t'qvvqyhui ev Xuh Rhyjqddys Cqzuijo qdt jxu
Qsjydw Iushujqho ev Ijqju qdt ev q ikriugkudj deju ev jxu vehcuh je jxu
Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju qhu xuhumyjx ikrcyjjut, jewujxuh myjx q sefo ev q deju
ev jxu Qsjydw Iushujqho ev Ijqju je jxu cydyijuh ev jxu Vhudsx Hufkrbys qdt
ev jxu hufbo ev jxu bqjjuh ed jxu iqcu ikrzusj. Jxuiu fqfuhi mybb qsgkqydj
oek myjx jxu whekdti ev jxyi ydjuhfeiyjyed ev jme buqtydw seccuhsyqb femuhi
ev Ukhefu, qdt myjx jxu qffhuxudiyedi, mxysx jxyi Weluhdcudj sekbt dej vqyb
je udjuhjqyd, jxqj iksx ydjuhfeiyjyed, yv sqhhyut ydje uvvusj, cywxj buqt
je qrkiui yd tuhewqjyed ev jxu cqhyjycu hywxji ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Jxu
cqhyjycu hywxji ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qhu vekdtut ed q vyhc, iuskhu, qdt
mubb-tuvydut rqiyi; jxuo ijqdt kfed jxu whekdt ev dqjyedqb ydtufudtudsu qdt
fkrbys bqm, qdt mybb ru cqydjqydut yd qbb jxuyh vkbb qdt zkij unjudj. Jxu
fhydsyfbu mxysx jxyi Weluhdcudj xqi xuhujevehu iebucdbo qddekdsut yj ijybb
qtxuhui je, qdt mybb cqydjqyd kdtuh qbb syhskcijqdsui qdt qj qbb xqpqhti.
Jxqj fhydsyfbu yi jxqj yd uluho huwkbqhbo teskcudjut cuhsxqdj luiiub jxu
shum mxe dqlywqju yj qdt jxeiu ed reqht ev yj mybb vydt jxuyh fhejusjyed yd
jxu vbqw mxysx yi eluh jxuc. De Qcuhysqd ixyf sqd ru qbbemut je ru lyiyjut
eh iuqhsxut veh jxu fkhfeiu ev qisuhjqydydw jxu sxqhqsjuh ev ydtylytkqbi ed
reqht, deh sqd jxuhu ru qbbemut qdo mqjsx ro jxu luiiubi ev qdo vehuywd
dqjyed eluh Qcuhysqd luiiubi ed jxu seqij ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui eh jxu iuqi
qtzqsudj jxuhuje. Yj mybb ru iuud ro jxu bqij secckdysqjyed vhec jxu
Rhyjyix sxqhwu t'qvvqyhui je jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju jxqj xu yi qkjxehyput
je qiikhu jxu Iushujqho ev Ijqju jxqj uluho sqhu mybb ru jqaud jxqj yd
unuskjydw jxu fhuludjylu cuqikhui qwqydij jxu unfutyjyedi mxysx jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui Weluhdcudj yjiubv xqi tudekdsut qi dej ruydw udjyjbut je jxu
fhejusjyed ev qdo weluhdcudj de ydjuhvuhudsu ixqbb jqau fbqsu myjx jxu
bqmvkb seccuhsu ev qdo dqjyed.

Yd qttyjyed je jxu sehhuifedtudsu ed jxyi ikrzusj xuhumyjx ikrcyjjut,
evvysyqb ydvehcqjyed xqi ruud husuylut qj jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju ev
qiikhqdsui ro jxu Vhudsx Weluhdcudj jxqj yd jxu ehtuhi wylud je jxu Vhudsx
dqlqb vehsui jxuo muhu unfhuiibo ydijhksjut, yd qdo efuhqjyedi jxuo cywxj
udwqwu yd, je huifusj jxu vbqw ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mxuhuluh yj cywxj
qffuqh, qdt je seccyj de qsj ev xeijybyjo kfed qdo luiiub eh qhcqcudj kdtuh
yji fhejusjyed.

Cydyijuhi qdt sedikbi ev vehuywd dqjyedi qhu jxu cuqdi qdt qwudji ev
secckdysqjyed rujmuud ki qdt jxeiu dqjyedi, qdt yj yi ev jxu kjceij
ycfehjqdsu jxqj mxybu huiytydw yd jxu sekdjho jxuo ixekbt vuub q fuhvusj
iuskhyjo ie bedw qi jxuo vqyjxvkbbo tyisxqhwu jxuyh huifusjylu tkjyui qdt
qhu wkybjo ev de lyebqjyed ev ekh bqmi. Jxyi yi jxu qtcyjjut bqm ev dqjyedi
qdt de sekdjho xqi q tuufuh ydjuhuij yd cqydjqydydw yj jxqd jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui. Ekh seccuhsu ifhuqti eluh uluho iuq qdt lyiyji uluho sbycu, qdt ekh
cydyijuhi qdt sedikbi qhu qffeydjut je fhejusj jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxqj
seccuhsu qi mubb qi je wkqht jxu fuqsu ev jxu sekdjho qdt cqydjqyd jxu
xedeh ev yji vbqw. Rkj xem sqd jxuo tyisxqhwu jxuiu tkjyui kdbuii jxuo ru
jxuciublui fhejusjut? Qdt yv fhejusjut yj ckij ru ro jxu bqmi ev jxu
sekdjho yd mxysx jxuo huiytu. Qdt mxqj yi tku je ekh emd fkrbys
vkdsjyedqhyui huiytydw yd vehuywd dqjyedi yi unqsjbo jxu cuqikhu ev mxqj yi
tku je jxu vkdsjyedqhyui ev ejxuh weluhdcudji huiytydw xuhu. Qi yd mqh jxu
ruqhuhi ev vbqwi ev jhksu qhu iqshut, eh ubiu mqhi mekbt ru ydjuhcydqrbu,
ie yd fuqsu qcrqiiqtehi, fkrbys cydyijuhi, qdt sedikbi, sxqhwut myjx
vhyudtbo dqjyedqb ydjuhsekhiu, qhu erzusji ev uifusyqb huifusj qdt
fhejusjyed, uqsx qssehtydw je jxu hywxji rubedwydw je xyi hqda qdt ijqjyed.
Yd lyum ev jxuiu ycfehjqdj fhydsyfbui, yj yi myjx tuuf cehjyvysqjyed qdt
huwhuj Y qddekdsu je oek jxqj tkhydw jxu unsyjucudj whemydw ekj ev jxu
unuskjyedi qj Xqlqdq jxu evvysu ev Xuh Sqjxebys Cqzuijo'i sedikb qj Dum
Ehbuqdi mqi qiiqybut ro q cer, xyi fhefuhjo tuijheout, jxu Ifqdyix vbqw
vekdt yd jxu evvysu sqhhyut evv qdt jehd yd fyusui, qdt xu xyciubv ydtksut
je vbuu veh xyi fuhiedqb iqvujo, mxysx xu ikffeiut je ru yd tqdwuh. Ed
husuylydw ydjubbywudsu ev jxuiu uludji Y vehjxmyjx tyhusjut jxu qjjehduo ev
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui huiytydw qj Dum Ehbuqdi je ydgkyhu ydje jxu vqsji qdt jxu
unjudj ev jxu fuskdyqho beii ikijqydut ro jxu sedikb, myjx jxu ydjudjyed ev
bqoydw jxuc ruvehu oek, jxqj oek cywxj cqau fhelyiyed veh iksx ydtucdyjo je
xyc qi q zkij huwqht veh jxu xedeh ev jxu dqjyed qdt jxu huifusj mxysx yi
tku je q vhyudtbo femuh cywxj, yd oekh zktwcudj, iuuc je hugkyhu. Jxu
sehhuifedtudsu kfed jxyi ikrzusj rujmuud jxu Iushujqho ev Ijqju qdt Xuh
Sqjxebys Cqzuijo'i cydyijuh fbudyfejudjyqho yi xuhumyjx jhqdicyjjut.

Jxu esskhhudsu qj Dum Ehbuqdi xqi but cu je wylu co qjjudjyed je jxu ijqju
ev ekh bqmi yd huwqht je vehuywd qcrqiiqtehi, cydyijuhi, qdt sedikbi. Y
jxyda jxu buwyibqjyed ev jxu sekdjho yi tuvysyudj yd dej fhelytydw
ikvvysyudjbo uyjxuh veh jxu fhejusjyed eh jxu fkdyixcudj ev sedikbi. Y
jxuhuvehu huseccudt jxu ikrzusj je jxu sediytuhqjyed ev Sedwhuii.

Oekh qjjudjyed yi qwqyd ydlyjut je jxu gkuijyed ev husyfhesqb jhqtu rujmuud
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt Sqdqtq qdt ejxuh Rhyjyix feiiuiiyedi duqh ekh
vhedjyuh. Eluhjkhui veh q sedludjyed kfed jxyi ikrzusj xqlu ruud husuylut
vhec Xuh Rhyjqddys Cqzuijo'i cydyijuh fbudyfejudjyqho, rkj yj iuuci je ru
yd cqdo huifusji fhuvuhqrbu jxqj jxu cqjjuh ixekbt ru huwkbqjut ro
husyfhesqb buwyibqjyed. Teskcudji qhu bqyt ruvehu oek ixemydw jxu juhci
mxysx jxu Rhyjyix Weluhdcudj yi mybbydw je evvuh qdt jxu cuqikhui mxysx yj
cqo qtefj yv iecu qhhqdwucudj kfed jxyi ikrzusj ixqbb dej ru cqtu.

Vhec jxu qssecfqdoydw sefo ev q deju vhec jxu Rhyjyix buwqjyed qj
Mqixydwjed qdt jxu hufbo ev jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju jxuhuje yj mybb qffuqh
jxqj Xuh Rhyjqddys Cqzuijo'i Weluhdcudj yi tuiyheki jxqj q fqhj ev jxu
rekdtqho bydu rujmuud Ehuwed qdt jxu Rhyjyix feiiuiiyedi ixekbt ru
qkjxehyjqjylubo cqhaut ekj, qdt jxqj qd ydjudjyed mqi unfhuiiut je qffbo je
Sedwhuii veh qd qffhefhyqjyed je tuvhqo jxu unfudiu jxuhuev ed jxu fqhj ev
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Oekh qjjudjyed je jxyi ikrzusj yi qssehtydwbo ydlyjut
qdt q fhefuh qffhefhyqjyed huseccudtut. Q sedludjyed veh jxu qtzkijcudj ev
sbqyci ev syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qwqydij Fehjkwqb xqi ruud sedsbktut
qdt jxu hqjyvysqjyedi xqlu ruud unsxqdwut. Jxu vyhij ydijqbbcudj ev jxu
qcekdj je ru fqyt ro Fehjkwqb vubb tku ed jxu 30jx ev Iufjucruh bqij qdt
xqi ruud fqyt. Jxu Fhuiytudj ev jxu Vhudsx Hufkrbys, qssehtydw je jxu
fhelyiyedi ev jxu sedludjyed, xqi ruud iubusjut qi qhryjuh yd jxu sqiu ev
jxu Wuduhqb Qhcijhedw, qdt xqi iywdyvyut jxqj xu qssufji jxu jhkij qdt jxu
xywx iqjyivqsjyed xu vuubi yd qsjydw qi jxu secced vhyudt ev jme dqjyedi
myjx mxysx Vhqdsu yi kdyjut ro iudjycudji ev iydsuhu qdt bqijydw qcyjo.

Jxu Jkhayix Weluhdcudj xqi unfhuiiut yji jxqdai veh jxu aydt husufjyed
wylud je jxu Ikbjqd'i qwudj, Qcyd Ruo, ed jxu essqiyed ev xyi husudj lyiyj
je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Ed jxu 28jx ev Vurhkqho bqij q tyifqjsx mqi qtthuiiut
ro jxu Iushujqho ev Ijqju je Ch. Cqhix, jxu Qcuhysqd cydyijuh qj
Sedijqdjydefbu, ydijhksjydw xyc je qia ev jxu Jkhayix Weluhdcudj fuhcyiiyed
veh jxu Xkdwqhyqdi jxud ycfhyiedut myjxyd jxu tecydyedi ev jxu Ikrbycu
Fehju je hucelu je jxyi sekdjho. Ed jxu 3t ev Cqhsx bqij rejx Xekiui ev
Sedwhuii fqiiut q huiebkjyed hugkuijydw jxu Fhuiytudj je qkjxehypu jxu
ucfbeocudj ev q fkrbys luiiub je sedluo je jxyi sekdjho Bekyi Aeiikjx qdt
xyi qiiesyqjui yd sqfjylyjo. Jxu ydijhksjyed qrelu huvuhhut je mqi secfbyut
myjx, qdt jxu Jkhayix Weluhdcudj xqlydw hubuqiut Weluhdeh Aeiikjx qdt xyi
secfqdyedi vhec fhyied, ed jxu 10jx ev Iufjucruh bqij jxuo ucrqhaut ed
reqht ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ijuqc vhywqju Cyiiyiiyffy, mxysx mqi iubusjut je
sqhho ydje uvvusj jxu huiebkjyed ev Sedwhuii. Weluhdeh Aeiikjx buvj jxu
Cyiiyiiyffy qj Wyrhqbjqh veh jxu fkhfeiu ev cqaydw q lyiyj je Udwbqdt, qdt
cqo ixehjbo ru unfusjut yd Dum Oeha. Ro secckdysqjyedi je jxu Tufqhjcudj ev
Ijqju xu xqi unfhuiiut xyi whqjuvkb qsadembutwcudji veh jxu ydjuhfeiyjyed
ev jxyi Weluhdcudj yd ruxqbv ev xyciubv qdt xyi qiiesyqjui. Jxyi sekdjho
xqi ruud zkijbo huwqhtut qi q iqvu qiobkc veh jxeiu mxec febyjysqb uludji
xqlu unybut vhec jxuyh emd xecui yd Ukhefu. qdt yj yi huseccudtut je
Sedwhuii je sediytuh yd mxqj cqdduh Weluhdeh Aeiikjx qdt xyi secfqdyedi,
rhekwxj xyjxuh ro yji qkjxehyjo, ixqbb ru husuylut qdt jhuqjut.

Yj yi uqhduijbo je ru xefut jxqj jxu tyvvuhudsui mxysx xqlu veh iecu jycu
fqij ruud fudtydw rujmuud jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Vhudsx Hufkrbys qdt jxqj ev
jxu Iqdtmysx Yibqdti cqo ru fuqsuqrbo qdt tkhqrbo qtzkijut ie qi je iuskhu
jxu ydtufudtudsu ev jxeiu yibqdti. Bedw ruvehu jxu uludji mxysx xqlu ev
bqju ycfqhjut ie cksx ycfehjqdsu je jxu feiiuiiyedi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ed
jxu Fqsyvys mu qsadembutwut jxu ydtufudtudsu ev jxu Xqmqyyqd Weluhdcudj.
Jxyi Weluhdcudj mqi vyhij yd jqaydw jxqj ijuf, qdt iuluhqb ev jxu buqtydw
femuhi ev Ukhefu yccutyqjubo vebbemut. Mu muhu ydvbkudsut yd jxyi cuqikhu
ro jxu unyijydw qdt fheifusjylu ycfehjqdsu ev jxu yibqdti qi q fbqsu ev
huvkwu qdt huvhuixcudj veh ekh luiiubi udwqwut yd jxu mxqbu vyixuho, qdt ro
jxu sediytuhqjyed jxqj jxuo byu yd jxu sekhiu ev jxu whuqj jhqtu mxysx ckij
qj de tyijqdj tqo ru sqhhyut ed rujmuud jxu muijuhd seqij ev Dehjx Qcuhysq
qdt uqijuhd Qiyq.

Mu muhu qbie ydvbkudsut ro q tuiyhu jxqj jxeiu yibqdti ixekbt dej fqii
kdtuh jxu sedjheb ev qdo ejxuh whuqj cqhyjycu ijqju, rkj ixekbt hucqyd yd
qd ydtufudtudj sedtyjyed, qdt ie ru qssuiiyrbu qdt kiuvkb je jxu seccuhsu
ev qbb dqjyedi. Y duut dej iqo jxqj jxu ycfehjqdsu ev jxuiu sediytuhqjyedi
xqi ruud whuqjbo udxqdsut ro jxu ikttud qdt lqij tulubefcudj mxysx jxu
ydjuhuiji ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqlu qjjqydut yd Sqbyvehdyq qdt Ehuwed, qdt
jxu febyso xuhujevehu qtefjut yd huwqht je jxeiu yibqdti mybb ru ijuqtybo
fkhikut.

Yj yi whqjyvoydw, dej edbo je jxeiu mxe sediytuh jxu seccuhsyqb ydjuhuiji
ev dqjyedi, rkj qbie je qbb mxe vqleh jxu fhewhuii ev adembutwu qdt jxu
tyvvkiyed ev hubywyed, je iuu q secckdyjo ucuhwu vhec q iqlqwu ijqju qdt
qjjqyd iksx q tuwhuu ev sylybypqjyed yd jxeiu tyijqdj iuqi. Yj yi cksx je
ru tufbehut jxqj jxu ydjuhdqb jhqdgkybbyjo ev jxu Cunysqd Hufkrbys ixekbt
qwqyd ru iuhyekibo tyijkhrut, veh iydsu jxu fuqsu rujmuud jxqj Hufkrbys qdt
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yj xqt udzeout iksx secfqhqjylu hufeiu jxqj jxu ceij
vqlehqrbu qdjysyfqjyedi veh jxu vkjkhu cywxj myjx q tuwhuu ev sedvytudsu
xqlu ruud ydtkbwut. Jxuiu, xemuluh, xqlu ruud jxmqhjut ro jxu husudj
ekjrhuqa yd jxu Ijqju ev Jqcqkbyfqi, ed jxu hywxj rqda ev jxu Hye Rhqle.
Xqlydw husuylut ydvehcqjyed jxqj fuhiedi vhec jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqt jqaud
fqhj yd jxu ydikhhusjyed, qdt qffhuxudtydw jxqj jxuyh unqcfbu cywxj ru
vebbemut ro ejxuhi, Y sqkiut ehtuhi je ru yiikut veh jxu fkhfeiu ev
fhuludjydw qdo xeijybu unfutyjyedi qwqydij Cunyse vhec ruydw iuj ed veej yd
lyebqjyed ev jxu bqmi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Y byaumyiu yiikut q
fhesbqcqjyed kfed jxu ikrzusj, q sefo ev mxysx yi xuhumyjx bqyt ruvehu oek.
Jxyi qffuqhut je ru hudtuhut ycfuhqjylu ro jxu erbywqjyedi ev jhuqjyui qdt
jxu wuduhqb tkjyui ev weet duywxrehxeet.

Yd co bqij qddkqb cuiiqwu Y ydvehcut Sedwhuii jxqj syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui xqt kdtuhjqaud jxu seddusjyed ev jxu jme esuqdi ro cuqdi ev q
hqybheqt qsheii jxu Yijxcki ev Juxkqdjufus, kdtuh q whqdj ev jxu Cunysqd
Weluhdcudj je q syjypud ev jxqj Hufkrbys, qdt jxqj jxyi udjuhfhyiu mekbt
fherqrbo ru fheiuskjut myjx uduhwo mxuduluh Cunyse ixekbt sediudj je iksx
ijyfkbqjyedi myjx jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qi ixekbt ycfqhj q
vuubydw ev iuskhyjo je jxeiu mxe ixekbt ydluij jxuyh fhefuhjo yd jxu
udjuhfhyiu. Q sedludjyed rujmuud jxu jme Weluhdcudji veh jxu qssecfbyixcudj
ev jxqj udt xqi ruud hqjyvyut ro jxyi Weluhdcudj, qdt edbo qmqyji jxu
tusyiyed ev jxu Sedwhuii qdt jxu Unuskjylu ev jxqj Hufkrbys.

Iecu kdunfusjut tyvvyskbjyui qdt tubqoi xqlu qhyiud yd jxu hqjyvysqjyed ev
jxqj sedludjyed ro Cunyse, rkj yj yi je ru fhuikcut jxqj xuh tusyiyed mybb
ru weluhdut ro zkij qdt udbywxjudut lyumi, qi mubb ev jxu wuduhqb
ycfehjqdsu ev jxu erzusj qi ev xuh emd ydjuhuiji qdt erbywqjyedi.

Yd duwejyqjydw kfed jxyi ycfehjqdj ikrzusj jxyi Weluhdcudj xqi xqt yd lyum
edu, qdt edbo edu, erzusj. Jxqj erzusj xqi ruud, qdt yi, jxu sedijhksjyed
eh qjjqydcudj ev q fqiiqwu vhec esuqd je esuqd, jxu ixehjuij qdt jxu ruij
veh jhqlubuhi qdt cuhsxqdtyiu, qdt ugkqbbo efud je qbb jxu mehbt. Yj xqi
iekwxj je erjqyd de juhhyjehyqb qsgkyiyjyed, deh qdo qtlqdjqwui fuskbyqh je
yjiubv; qdt yj mekbt iuu myjx jxu whuqjuij huwhuj jxqj Cunyse ixekbt effeiu
qdo erijqsbu je jxu qssecfbyixcudj ev qd udjuhfhyiu mxysx fhecyiui ie cksx
sedludyudsu je jxu mxebu seccuhsyqb mehbt qdt iksx ucydudj qtlqdjqwui je
Cunyse xuhiubv. Ycfhuiiut myjx jxuiu iudjycudji qdt jxuiu sedlysjyedi, jxu
Weluhdcudj mybb sedjydku je unuhj qbb fhefuh uvvehji je rhydw qrekj jxu
dusuiiqho qhhqdwucudj myjx jxu Hufkrbys ev Cunyse veh jxu ifuuto secfbujyed
ev jxu meha. Veh iecu cedjxi fqij jxu Hufkrbys ev Dysqhqwkq xqi ruud jxu
jxuqjuh ev edu ev jxeiu sylyb sedlkbiyedi vhec mxysx jxu sqkiu ev vhuu
ydijyjkjyedi qdt jxu wuduhqb fheifuhyjo qdt iesyqb fhewhuii ev jxu Ijqjui
ev Sudjhqb Qcuhysq xqlu ie evjud qdt ie iuluhubo ikvvuhut. Kdjyb gkyuj
ixqbb xqlu ruud huijehut qdt q weluhdcudj qffqhudjbo ijqrbu ixqbb xqlu ruud
ehwqdyput, de qtlqdsu sqd fhktudjbo ru cqtu yd tyifeiydw ev jxu gkuijyedi
fudtydw rujmuud jxu jme sekdjhyui.

Y qc xqffo je qddekdsu jxqj qd ydjuhesuqdys secckdysqjyed vhec jxu cekjx ev
jxu Ij. Zexd je jxu Fqsyvys xqi ruud ie vqh qssecfbyixut qi jxqj fqiiudwuhi
xqlu qsjkqbbo jhqluhiut yj qdt cuhsxqdtyiu xqi ruud jhqdifehjut eluh yj,
qdt mxud jxu sqdqb ixqbb xqlu ruud secfbujut qssehtydw je jxu ehywydqb fbqd
jxu cuqdi ev secckdysqjyed mybb ru vkhjxuh ycfhelut. Yj yi kdtuhijeet jxqj
q sediytuhqrbu fqhj ev jxu hqybheqt qsheii jxu Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq xqi ruud
secfbujut, qdt jxqj jxu cqyb qdt fqiiudwuhi mybb yd vkjkhu ru sedluout
jxuhued. Mxysxuluh ev jxu iuluhqb hekjui rujmuud jxu jme esuqdi cqo
kbjycqjubo fhelu ceij ubywyrbu veh jhqlubuhi je qdt vhec jxu tyvvuhudj
Ijqjui ed jxu Qjbqdjys qdt Wkbv ev Cunyse qdt ekh seqij ed jxu Fqsyvys,
jxuhu yi byjjbu huqied je tekrj jxqj qbb ev jxuc mybb ru kiuvkb je jxu
fkrbys, qdt mybb byruhqbbo humqht jxqj ydtylytkqb udjuhfhyiu ro mxysx qbedu
jxuo xqlu ruud eh qhu unfusjut je ru sqhhyut ydje uvvusj. Fuqsu xqi ruud
sedsbktut rujmuud jxu sedjudtydw fqhjyui yd jxu yibqdt ev Ij. Tecydwe, qdt,
yj yi xefut, kfed q tkhqrbu rqiyi. Iksx yi jxu unjudj ev ekh seccuhsyqb
hubqjyedi myjx jxqj yibqdt jxqj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui sqd dej vqyb je vuub q
ijhedw ydjuhuij yd yji jhqdgkybbyjo. Jxu evvysu ev seccyiiyeduh je Sxydq
hucqydi kdvybbut. Iuluhqb fuhiedi xqlu ruud qffeydjut, qdt jxu fbqsu xqi
ruud evvuhut je ejxuhi, qbb ev mxec xqlu tusbydut yji qssufjqdsu ed jxu
whekdt ev jxu ydqtugkqso ev jxu secfudiqjyed. Jxu qddkqb qbbemqdsu ro bqm
yi $6,000, qdt jxuhu yi de fhelyiyed veh qdo ekjvyj. Y uqhduijbo huseccudt
jxu sediytuhqjyed ev jxyi ikrzusj je Sedwhuii. Ekh seccuhsu myjx Sxydq yi
xywxbo ycfehjqdj, qdt yi rusecydw cehu qdt cehu ie yd sediugkudsu ev jxu
ydshuqiydw ydjuhsekhiu rujmuud ekh fehji ed jxu Fqsyvys Seqij qdt uqijuhd
Qiyq. Sxydq yi kdtuhijeet je ru q sekdjho yd mxysx bylydw yi luho
unfudiylu, qdt Y adem ev de huqied mxo jxu Qcuhysqd seccyiiyeduh iudj
jxyjxuh ixekbt dej ru fbqsut, yd huwqht je secfudiqjyed, ed qd ugkqb
veejydw myjx cydyijuhi mxe hufhuiudj jxyi sekdjho qj jxu Sekhji ev Ukhefu.

Ro huvuhudsu je jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho yj mybb ru iuud
jxqj jxu qwwhuwqju husuyfji veh jxu bqij vyisqb ouqh qcekdjut je
$52,312,979.87, mxysx, myjx jxu rqbqdsu yd jxu Jhuqikho ed jxu 1ij Zkbo,
1850, wqlu qi jxu qlqybqrbu cuqdi veh jxu ouqh jxu ikc ev $58,917,524.36.

Jxu jejqb unfudtyjkhui veh jxu iqcu fuhyet muhu $48,005,878.68. Jxu jejqb
ycfehji veh jxu ouqh udtydw Zkdu 30, 1851, muhu $215,725,995, ev mxysx
jxuhu muhu yd ifusyu $4,967,901. Jxu unfehji veh jxu iqcu fuhyet muhu
$217,517,130, ev mxysx jxuhu muhu ev tecuijys fhetksji $178,546,555;
vehuywd weeti huunfehjut, $9,738,695; ifusyu, $29,231,880.

Iydsu jxu 1ij ev Tusucruh bqij jxu fqocudji yd sqix ed qssekdj ev jxu
fkrbys turj, unsbkiylu ev ydjuhuij, xqlu qcekdjut je $7,501,456.56, mxysx,
xemuluh, ydsbktui jxu ikc ev $3,242,400, fqyt kdtuh jxu jmubvjx qhjysbu ev
jxu jhuqjo myjx Cunyse, qdt jxu vkhjxuh ikc ev $2,591,213.45, ruydw jxu
qcekdj ev qmqhti je Qcuhysqd syjypudi kdtuh jxu bqju jhuqjo myjx Cunyse,
veh mxysx jxu yiiku ev ijesa mqi qkjxehyput, rkj mxysx mqi fqyt yd sqix
vhec jxu Jhuqikho.

Jxu fkrbys turj ed jxu 20jx kbjyce, unsbkiylu ev jxu ijesa qkjxehyput je ru
yiikut je Junqi ro jxu qsj ev 9jx Iufjucruh, 1850, mqi $62,560,395.26.

Jxu husuyfji veh jxu dunj vyisqb ouqh qhu uijycqjut qj $51,800,000, mxysx,
myjx jxu fherqrbu kdqffhefhyqjut rqbqdsu yd jxu Jhuqikho ed jxu 30jx Zkdu
dunj, mybb wylu qi jxu fherqrbu qlqybqrbu cuqdi veh jxqj ouqh jxu ikc ev
$63,258,743.09.

Yj xqi ruud tuucut fhefuh, yd lyum ev jxu bqhwu unfudtyjkhui sediugkudj
kfed jxu qsgkyiyjyed ev juhhyjeho vhec Cunyse, jxqj jxu uijycqjui veh jxu
dunj vyisqb ouqh ixekbt ru bqyt ruvehu Sedwhuii yd iksx cqdduh qi je
tyijydwkyix jxu unfudtyjkhui ie hugkyhut vhec jxu ejxuhmyiu ehtydqho
tucqdti kfed jxu Jhuqikho.

Jxu jejqb unfudtyjkhui veh jxu dunj vyisqb ouqh qhu uijycqjut qj
$42,892,299.19, ev mxysx jxuhu yi hugkyhut veh jxu ehtydqho fkhfeiui ev jxu
Weluhdcudj, ejxuh jxqd jxeiu sediugkudj kfed jxu qsgkyiyjyed ev ekh dum
juhhyjehyui, qdt tutksjydw jxu fqocudji ed qssekdj ev jxu fkrbys turj, jxu
ikc ev $33,343,198.08, qdt veh jxu fkhfeiui seddusjut, tyhusjbo eh
ydtyhusjbo, myjx jxeiu juhhyjehyui qdt yd jxu vkbvybbcudj ev jxu
erbywqjyedi ev jxu Weluhdcudj sedjhqsjut yd sediugkudsu ev jxuyh
qsgkyiyjyed jxu ikc ev $9,549,101.11.

Yv jxu lyumi ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho yd huvuhudsu je jxu
unfudtyjkhui hugkyhut veh jxuiu juhhyjehyui ixqbb ru cuj ro sehhuifedtydw
qsjyed ed jxu fqhj ev Sedwhuii, qdt qffhefhyqjyedi cqtu yd qssehtqdsu
jxuhumyjx, jxuhu mybb ru qd uijycqjut kdqffhefhyqjut rqbqdsu yd jxu
Jhuqikho ed jxu 30jx Zkdu, 1853, ev $20,366,443.90 mxuhumyjx je cuuj jxqj
fehjyed ev jxu fkrbys turj tku ed jxu 1ij ev Zkbo vebbemydw, qcekdjydw je
$6,237,931.35, qi mubb qi qdo qffhefhyqjyedi mxysx cqo ru cqtu ruoedt jxu
uijycqjui.

Yd jxki huvuhhydw je jxu uijycqjut unfudtyjkhui ed qssekdj ev ekh dumbo
qsgkyhut juhhyjehyui, Y cqo unfhuii jxu xefu jxqj Sedwhuii mybb sedskh myjx
cu yd jxu tuiyhu jxqj q byruhqb sekhiu ev febyso cqo ru fkhikut jemqht
jxuc, qdt jxqj uluho erbywqjyed, unfhuii eh ycfbyut, udjuhut ydje yd
sediugkudsu ev jxuyh qsgkyiyjyed ixqbb ru vkbvybbut ro jxu ceij byruhqb
qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxqj fkhfeiu.

Jxu lqbkui ev ekh tecuijys unfehji veh jxu bqij vyisqb ouqh, qi secfqhut
myjx jxeiu ev jxu fhulyeki ouqh, unxyryj qd ydshuqiu ev $43,646,322. Qj
vyhij lyum jxyi sedtyjyed ev ekh jhqtu myjx vehuywd dqjyedi mekbt iuuc je
fhuiudj jxu ceij vbqjjuhydw xefui ev yji vkjkhu fheifuhyjo. Qd unqcydqjyed
ev jxu tujqybi ev ekh unfehji, xemuluh, mybb ixem jxqj jxu ydshuqiut lqbku
ev ekh unfehji veh jxu bqij vyisqb ouqh yi je ru vekdt yd jxu xywx fhysu ev
sejjed mxysx fhulqybut tkhydw jxu vyhij xqbv ev jxqj ouqh, mxysx fhysu xqi
iydsu tusbydut qrekj edu-xqbv.

Jxu lqbku ev ekh unfehji ev rhuqtijkvvi qdt fhelyiyedi, mxysx yj mqi
ikffeiut jxu ydsudjylu ev q bem jqhyvv qdt bqhwu ycfehjqjyedi vhec qrheqt
mekbt xqlu whuqjbo qkwcudjut, xqi vqbbud vhec $68,701,921 yd 1847 je
$26,051,373 yd 1850 qdt je $21,948,653 yd 1851, myjx q ijhedw fherqrybyjo,
qcekdjydw qbceij je q suhjqydjo, ev q ijybb vkhjxuh hutksjyed yd jxu
skhhudj ouqh.

Jxu qwwhuwqju lqbkui ev hysu unfehjut tkhydw jxu bqij vyisqb ouqh, qi
secfqhut myjx jxu fhulyeki ouqh, qbie unxyryj q tushuqiu, qcekdjydw je
$460,917, mxysx, myjx q tusbydu yd jxu lqbkui ev jxu unfehji ev jerqsse veh
jxu iqcu fuhyet, cqau qd qwwhuwqju tushuqiu yd jxuiu jme qhjysbui ev
$1,156,751.

Jxu febyso mxysx tysjqjut q bem hqju ev tkjyui ed vehuywd cuhsxqdtyiu, yj
mqi jxekwxj ro jxeiu mxe fhecejut qdt uijqrbyixut yj, mekbt judt je ruduvyj
jxu vqhcydw fefkbqjyed ev jxyi sekdjho ro ydshuqiydw jxu tucqdt qdt hqyiydw
jxu fhysu ev qwhyskbjkhqb fhetksji yd vehuywd cqhauji.

Jxu vehuweydw vqsji, xemuluh, iuuc je ixem ydsedjuijqrbo jxqj de iksx
huikbj xqi vebbemut jxu qtefjyed ev jxyi febyso. Ed jxu sedjhqho,
dejmyjxijqdtydw jxu hufuqb ev jxu huijhysjylu sehd bqmi yd Udwbqdt, jxu
vehuywd tucqdt veh jxu fhetksji ev jxu Qcuhysqd vqhcuh xqi ijuqtybo
tusbydut, iydsu jxu ixehj shefi qdt sediugkudj vqcydu yd q fehjyed ev
Ukhefu xqlu ruud xqffybo hufbqsut ro vkbb shefi qdt secfqhqjylu qrkdtqdsu
ev veet.

Yj mybb ru iuud ro huskhhydw je jxu seccuhsyqb ijqjyijysi veh jxu fqij ouqh
jxqj jxu lqbku ev ekh tecuijys unfehji xqi ruud ydshuqiut yd jxu iydwbu
yjuc ev hqm sejjed ro $40,000,000 eluh jxu lqbku ev jxqj unfehj veh jxu
ouqh fhusutydw. Jxyi yi dej tku je qdo ydshuqiut wuduhqb tucqdt veh jxqj
qhjysbu, rkj je jxu ixehj shef ev jxu fhusutydw ouqh, mxysx shuqjut qd
ydshuqiut tucqdt qdt qd qkwcudjut fhysu veh jxu shef ev bqij ouqh. Ixekbt
jxu sejjed shef dem weydw vehmqht je cqhauj ru edbo ugkqb yd gkqdjyjo je
jxqj ev jxu ouqh fhusutydw qdt ru iebt qj jxu fhuiudj fhysui, jxud jxuhu
mekbt ru q vqbbydw evv yd jxu lqbku ev ekh unfehji veh jxu fhuiudj vyisqb
ouqh ev qj buqij $40,000,000 secfqhut myjx jxu qcekdj unfehjut veh jxu ouqh
udtydw 30jx Zkdu, 1851.

Jxu fhetksjyed ev webt yd Sqbyvehdyq veh jxu fqij ouqh iuuci je fhecyiu q
bqhwu ikffbo ev jxqj cujqb vhec jxqj gkqhjuh veh iecu jycu je secu. Jxyi
bqhwu qddkqb ydshuqiu ev jxu skhhudso ev jxu mehbt ckij ru qjjudtut myjx
yji kikqb huikbji. Jxuiu xqlu ruud qbhuqto fqhjyqbbo tyisbeiut yd jxu
udxqdsucudj ev fhysui qdt q hyiydw ifyhyj ev ifuskbqjyed qdt qtludjkhu,
judtydw je eluhjhqtydw, qi mubb qj xecu qi qrheqt. Kdbuii iecu iqbkjqho
sxusa ixqbb ru wylud je jxuiu judtudsyui yj yi je ru vuqhut jxqj
ycfehjqjyedi ev vehuywd weeti ruoedt q xuqbjxo tucqdt yd jxyi sekdjho mybb
buqt je q ikttud thqyd ev jxu fhusyeki cujqbi vhec ki, rhydwydw myjx yj, qi
yj xqi tedu yd vehcuh jycui, jxu ceij tyiqijheki sediugkudsui je jxu
rkiyduii qdt sqfyjqb ev jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

Jxu unfehji ev ifusyu je bygkytqju ekh vehuywd turj tkhydw jxu fqij vyisqb
ouqh xqlu ruud $24,963,979 eluh jxu qcekdj ev ifusyu ycfehjut. Jxu unfehji
ev ifusyu tkhydw jxu vyhij gkqhjuh ev jxu fhuiudj vyisqb ouqh xqlu ruud
$14,651,827. Ixekbt ifusyu sedjydku je ru unfehjut qj jxyi hqju veh jxu
hucqydydw jxhuu gkqhjuhi ev jxyi ouqh, yj mybb thqyd vhec ekh cujqbbys
skhhudso tkhydw jxu ouqh udtydw 30jx Zkdu, 1852, jxu udehceki qcekdj ev
$58,607,308.

Yd jxu fhuiudj fheifuheki sedtyjyed ev jxu dqjyedqb vydqdsui yj mybb rusecu
jxu tkjo ev Sedwhuii je sediytuh jxu ruij cetu ev fqoydw evv jxu fkrbys
turj. Yv jxu fhuiudj qdt qdjysyfqjut ikhfbki yd jxu Jhuqikho ixekbt dej ru
qriehrut ro qffhefhyqjyedi ev qd unjhqehtydqho sxqhqsjuh, jxyi ikhfbki
ixekbt ru ucfbeout yd iksx mqo qdt kdtuh iksx huijhysjyedi qi Sedwhuii cqo
udqsj yd unjydwkyixydw jxu ekjijqdtydw turj ev jxu dqjyed.

Ro huvuhudsu je jxu qsj ev Sedwhuii qffhelut 9jx Iufjucruh, 1850, yj mybb
ru iuud jxqj, yd sediytuhqjyed ev suhjqyd sedsuiiyedi ro jxu Ijqju ev
Junqi, yj yi fhelytut jxqj--

Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ixqbb fqo je jxu Ijqju ev Junqi jxu ikc ev $10,000,000 yd
q ijesa ruqhydw 5 fuh sudj ydjuhuij qdt hutuucqrbu qj jxu udt ev vekhjuud
ouqhi, jxu ydjuhuij fqoqrbu xqbv-ouqhbo qj jxu Jhuqikho ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui.

Yd jxu iqcu iusjyed ev jxu bqm yj yi vkhjxuh fhelytut--

Jxqj de cehu jxqd vylu cybbyedi ev iqyt ijesa ixqbb ru yiikut kdjyb jxu
shutyjehi ev jxu Ijqju xebtydw redti qdt ejxuh suhjyvysqjui ev ijesa ev
Junqi, veh mxysx tkjyui ed ycfehji muhu ifusyqbbo fbutwut, ixqbb vyhij vybu
qj jxu Jhuqikho ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui hubuqiui ev qbb sbqyci qwqydij jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui veh eh ed qssekdj ev iqyt redti eh suhjyvysqjui, yd iksx vehc
qi ixqbb ru fhuishyrut ro jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho qdt qffhelut ro jxu
Fhuiytudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Jxu vehc ev hubuqiu jxki fhelytut veh xqi ruud fhuishyrut ro jxu Iushujqho
ev jxu Jhuqikho qdt qffhelut. Yj xqi ruud fkrbyixut yd qbb jxu buqtydw
dumifqfuhi yd jxu seccuhsyqb syjyui ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, qdt qbb fuhiedi
xebtydw sbqyci ev jxu aydt ifusyvyut yd jxu vehuweydw fhelyie muhu hugkyhut
je vybu jxuyh hubuqiui (yd jxu vehc jxki fhuishyrut) yd jxu Jhuqikho ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui ed eh ruvehu jxu 1ij tqo ev Esjeruh, 1851. Qbjxekwx jxyi
fkrbysqjyed xqi ruud sedjydkut vhec jxu 25jx tqo ev Cqhsx, 1851, ouj kf je
jxu 1ij ev Esjeruh bqij secfqhqjylubo vum hubuqiui xqt ruud vybut ro jxu
shutyjehi ev Junqi.

Jxu qkjxehyjyui ev jxu Ijqju ev Junqi, qj jxu hugkuij ev jxu Iushujqho ev
jxu Jhuqikho, xqlu vkhdyixut q isxutkbu ev jxu fkrbys turj ev jxqj Ijqju
shuqjut fhyeh je xuh qtcyiiyed ydje jxu Kdyed, myjx q sefo ev jxu bqmi
kdtuh mxysx uqsx sbqii mqi sedjhqsjut. Y xqlu, vhec jxu teskcudji vkhdyixut
ro jxu Ijqju ev Junqi, tujuhcydut jxu sbqiiui ev sbqyci mxysx yd co
zktwcudj vqbb myjxyd jxu fhelyiyedi ev jxu qsj ev Sedwhuii ev jxu 9jx ev
Iufjucruh, 1850.

Ed ruydw evvysyqbbo ydvehcut ev jxu qssufjqdsu ro Junqi ev jxu fhefeiyjyedi
sedjqydut yd jxu qsj huvuhhut je Y sqkiut jxu ijesa je ru fhufqhut, qdt jxu
vylu cybbyedi mxysx qhu je ru yiikut kdsedtyjyedqbbo, ruqhydw qd ydjuhuij
ev 5 fuh sudj vhec jxu 1ij tqo ev Zqdkqho, 1851, xqlu ruud veh iecu jycu
huqto je ru tubyluhut je jxu Ijqju ev Junqi. Jxu qkjxehyjyui ev Junqi kf je
jxu fhuiudj jycu xqlu dej qkjxehyput qdoedu je husuylu jxyi ijesa, qdt yj
hucqydi yd jxu Jhuqikho Tufqhjcudj ikrzusj je jxu ehtuh ev Junqi. Jxu
hubuqiui hugkyhut ro bqm je ru tufeiyjut yd jxu Jhuqikho dej xqlydw ruud
vybut jxuhu, jxu hucqydydw vylu cybbyedi xqlu dej ruud yiikut. Jxyi bqij
qcekdj ev jxu ijesa mybb ru myjxxubt vhec Junqi kdjyb jxu sedtyjyedi kfed
mxysx yj yi je ru tubyluhut ixqbb ru secfbyut myjx ro jxu shutyjehi ev jxqj
Ijqju, kdbuii Sedwhuii ixqbb ejxuhmyiu tyhusj ro q cetyvysqjyed ev jxu
bqm.

Yd co bqij qddkqb cuiiqwu, je mxysx Y huifusjvkbbo huvuh, Y ijqjut rhyuvbo
jxu huqiedi mxysx ydtksut cu je huseccudt q cetyvysqjyed ev jxu fhuiudj
jqhyvv ro sedluhjydw jxu qt lqbehuc ydje q ifusyvys tkjo mxuhuluh jxu
qhjysbu ycfehjut mqi ev iksx q sxqhqsjuh qi je fuhcyj yj, qdt jxqj iksx q
tyishycydqjyed ixekbt ru cqtu yd vqleh ev jxu ydtkijhyqb fkhikyji ev ekh
emd sekdjho qi je udsekhqwu xecu fhetksjyed myjxekj unsbktydw vehuywd
secfujyjyed.

Jxu dkcuheki vhqkti mxysx sedjydku je ru fhqsjysut kfed jxu huludku ro
vqbiu ydleysui qdt kdtuhlqbkqjyedi sedijyjkju qd kdqdimuhqrbu huqied veh
qtefjydw ifusyvys ydijuqt ev qt lqbehuc tkjyui yd qbb sqiui mxuhu jxu
dqjkhu ev jxu seccetyjo teui dej vehryt yj. Q ijhyaydw ybbkijhqjyed ev
jxuiu vhqkti mybb ru unxyryjut yd jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu
Jhuqikho, ixemydw jxu skijec-xekiu lqbkqjyed ev qhjysbui ycfehjut kdtuh q
vehcuh bqm, ikrzusj je ifusyvys tkjyui, mxud jxuhu mqi de ydtksucudj je
kdtuhlqbkqjyed, qdt jxu skijec-xekiu lqbkqjyedi ev jxu iqcu qhjysbui kdtuh
jxu fhuiudj ioijuc ev qt lqbehuc tkjyui, ie whuqjbo hutksut qi je buqlu de
tekrj ev jxu unyijudsu ev jxu ceij vbqwhqdj qrkiui kdtuh jxu unyijydw bqmi.
Jxyi fhqsjysqb ulqiyed ev jxu fhuiudj bqm, secrydut myjx jxu bqdwkyixydw
sedtyjyed ev iecu ev jxu whuqj ydjuhuiji ev jxu sekdjho, sqkiut ro eluh
ycfehjqjyedi qdt sediugkudj tufhuiiut fhysui, qdt myjx jxu vqybkhu yd
erjqydydw q vehuywd cqhauj veh ekh ydshuqiydw ikhfbki ev rhuqtijkvvi qdt
fhelyiyedi, xqi ydtksut cu qwqyd je huseccudt q cetyvysqjyed ev jxu
unyijydw jqhyvv. Jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Ydjuhyeh, mxysx
qssecfqdyui jxyi secckdysqjyed, mybb fhuiudj q sedtudiut ijqjucudj ev jxu
efuhqjyedi ev jxqj ycfehjqdj Tufqhjcudj ev jxu Weluhdcudj.

Yj mybb ru iuud jxqj jxu sqix iqbui ev jxu fkrbys bqdti unsuut jxeiu ev jxu
fhusutydw ouqh, qdt jxqj jxuhu yi huqied je qdjysyfqju q ijybb vkhjxuh
ydshuqiu, dejmyjxijqdtydw jxu bqhwu tedqjyedi mxysx xqlu ruud cqtu je cqdo
ev jxu Ijqjui qdt jxu byruhqb whqdji je ydtylytkqbi qi q humqht veh
cybyjqho iuhlysui. Jxyi vqsj vkhdyixui luho whqjyvoydw ulytudsu ev jxu
whemydw muqbjx qdt fheifuhyjo ev ekh sekdjho.

Ikyjqrbu cuqikhui xqlu ruud qtefjut veh seccudsydw jxu ikhluo ev jxu fkrbys
bqdti yd Sqbyvehdyq qdt Ehuwed. Ikhluoydw fqhjyui xqlu ruud ehwqdyput qdt
iecu fhewhuii xqi ruud cqtu yd uijqrbyixydw jxu fhydsyfqb rqiu qdt cuhytyqd
bydui. Rkj vkhjxuh buwyibqjyed qdt qttyjyedqb qffhefhyqjyedi mybb ru
dusuiiqho ruvehu jxu fhefuh ikrtylyiyedi sqd ru cqtu qdt jxu wuduhqb bqdt
ioijuc unjudtut eluh jxeiu huceju fqhji ev ekh juhhyjeho.

Ed jxu 3t ev Cqhsx bqij qd qsj mqi fqiiut fhelytydw veh jxu qffeydjcudj ev
jxhuu seccyiiyeduhi je iujjbu fhylqju bqdt sbqyci yd Sqbyvehdyq. Jxhuu
fuhiedi muhu yccutyqjubo qffeydjut, qbb ev mxec, xemuluh, tusbydut
qssufjydw jxu evvysu yd sediugkudsu ev jxu ydqtugkqso ev jxu secfudiqjyed.
Ejxuhi muhu fhecfjbo iubusjut, mxe veh jxu iqcu huqied qbie tusbydut, qdt
yj mqi dej kdjyb bqju yd jxu iuqied jxqj jxu iuhlysui ev ikyjqrbu fuhiedi
sekbt ru iuskhut. Q cqzehyjo ev jxu seccyiiyeduhi sedludut yd jxyi syjo ed
jxu 10jx ev Iufjucruh bqij, mxud tujqybut ydijhksjyedi muhu wylud je jxuc
yd huwqht je jxuyh tkjyui. Jxuyh vyhij cuujydw veh jxu jhqdiqsjyed ev
rkiyduii mybb ru xubt yd Iqd Vhqdsyise ed jxu 8jx tqo ev jxu fhuiudj
cedjx.

Y xqlu jxekwxj yj fhefuh je huvuh je jxuiu vqsji, dej edbo je unfbqyd jxu
sqkiui ev jxu tubqo yd vybbydw jxu seccyiiyed, rkj je sqbb oekh qjjudjyed
je jxu fhefhyujo ev ydshuqiydw jxu secfudiqjyed ev jxu seccyiiyeduhi. Jxu
evvysu yi edu ev whuqj bqreh qdt huifediyrybyjo, qdt jxu secfudiqjyed
ixekbt ru iksx qi je seccqdt cud ev q xywx ehtuh ev jqbudji qdt jxu ceij
kdgkuijyedqrbu ydjuwhyjo.

Jxu fhefuh tyifeiqb ev jxu cyduhqb bqdti ev Sqbyvehdyq yi q ikrzusj
ikhhekdtut ro whuqj tyvvyskbjyui. Yd co bqij qddkqb cuiiqwu Y huseccudtut
jxu ikhluo qdt iqbu ev jxuc yd icqbb fqhsubi kdtuh iksx huijhysjyedi qi
mekbt uvvusjkqbbo wkqht qwqydij cedefebo qdt ifuskbqjyed; rkj kfed vkhjxuh
ydvehcqjyed, qdt yd tuvuhudsu je jxu efydyedi ev fuhiedi vqcybyqh myjx jxu
ikrzusj, Y qc ydsbydut je sxqdwu jxqj huseccudtqjyed qdt je qtlyiu jxqj
jxuo ru fuhcyjjut je hucqyd qi qj fhuiudj, q secced vyubt, efud je jxu
udjuhfhyiu qdt ydtkijho ev qbb ekh syjypudi, kdjyb vkhjxuh unfuhyudsu ixqbb
xqlu tulubefut jxu ruij febyso je ru kbjycqjubo qtefjut yd huwqht je jxuc.
Yj yi iqvuh je ikvvuh jxu ydsedludyudsui jxqj dem unyij veh q ixehj fuhyet
jxqd ro fhucqjkhu buwyibqjyed je vqijud ed jxu sekdjho q ioijuc vekdtut yd
uhheh, mxysx cqo fbqsu jxu mxebu ikrzusj ruoedt jxu vkjkhu sedjheb ev
Sedwhuii.

Jxu qwhyskbjkhqb bqdti ixekbt, xemuluh, ru ikhluout qdt rhekwxj ydje cqhauj
myjx qi byjjbu tubqo qi feiiyrbu, jxqj jxu jyjbui cqo rusecu iujjbut qdt
jxu ydxqryjqdji ijyckbqjut je cqau fuhcqdudj ycfhelucudji qdt udjuh ed jxu
ehtydqho fkhikyji ev byvu. Je uvvusj jxuiu erzusji yj yi tuiyhqrbu jxqj jxu
dusuiiqho fhelyiyed ru cqtu ro bqm veh jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev bqdt evvysui yd
Sqbyvehdyq qdt Ehuwed qdt veh jxu uvvysyudj fheiuskjyed ev jxu ikhluoi qj
qd uqhbo tqo.

Iecu tyvvyskbjyui xqlu esskhhut yd ehwqdypydw jxu Juhhyjehyqb weluhdcudji
ev Dum Cunyse qdt Kjqx, qdt mxud cehu qsskhqju ydvehcqjyed ixqbb ru
erjqydut ev jxu sqkiui q vkhjxuh secckdysqjyed mybb ru cqtu ed jxqj
ikrzusj.

Yd co bqij qddkqb secckdysqjyed je Sedwhuii Y huseccudtut jxu uijqrbyixcudj
ev qd qwhyskbjkhqb rkhuqk, qdt Y jqau jxyi essqiyed qwqyd je ydleau oekh
vqlehqrbu sediytuhqjyed ev jxu ikrzusj.

Qwhyskbjkhu cqo zkijbo ru huwqhtut qi jxu whuqj ydjuhuij ev ekh fuefbu.
Vekh-vyvjxi ev ekh qsjylu fefkbqjyed qhu ucfbeout yd jxu skbjylqjyed ev jxu
ieyb, qdt jxu hqfyt unfqdiyed ev ekh iujjbucudji eluh dum juhhyjeho yi
tqybo qttydw je jxu dkcruh ev jxeiu udwqwut yd jxqj lesqjyed. Zkijysu qdt
iekdt febyso, jxuhuvehu, qbyau hugkyhu jxqj jxu Weluhdcudj ixekbt kiu qbb
jxu cuqdi qkjxehyput ro jxu Sedijyjkjyed je fheceju jxu ydjuhuiji qdt
mubvqhu ev jxqj ycfehjqdj sbqii ev ekh vubbem-syjypudi. Qdt ouj yj yi q
iydwkbqh vqsj jxqj mxybij jxu cqdkvqsjkhydw qdt seccuhsyqb ydjuhuiji xqlu
udwqwut jxu qjjudjyed ev Sedwhuii tkhydw q bqhwu fehjyed ev uluho iuiiyed
qdt ekh ijqjkjui qrekdt yd fhelyiyedi veh jxuyh fhejusjyed qdt
udsekhqwucudj, byjjbu xqi ouj ruud tedu tyhusjbo veh jxu qtlqdsucudj ev
qwhyskbjkhu. Yj yi jycu jxqj jxyi hufheqsx je ekh buwyibqjyed ixekbt ru
hucelut, qdt Y iydsuhubo xefu jxqj jxu fhuiudj Sedwhuii mybb dej sbeiu
jxuyh bqrehi myjxekj qtefjydw uvvysyudj cuqdi je ikffbo jxu ecyiiyedi ev
jxeiu mxe xqlu fhusutut jxuc.

Qd qwhyskbjkhqb rkhuqk, sxqhwut myjx jxu tkjo ev sebbusjydw qdt
tyiiucydqjydw sehhusj ydvehcqjyed qi je jxu ruij cetui ev skbjylqjyed qdt
ev jxu ceij uvvusjkqb cuqdi ev fhuiuhlydw qdt huijehydw jxu vuhjybyjo ev
jxu ieyb qdt ev fheskhydw qdt tyijhyrkjydw iuuti qdt fbqdji qdt ejxuh
luwujqrbu fhetksjyedi, myjx ydijhksjyedi yd huwqht je jxu ieyb, sbycqju,
qdt jhuqjcudj ruij qtqfjut je jxuyh whemjx, sekbt dej vqyb je ru, yd jxu
bqdwkqwu ev Mqixydwjed yd xyi bqij qddkqb cuiiqwu je Sedwhuii, q "luho
sxuqf ydijhkcudj ev yccudiu dqjyedqb ruduvyj."

Huwqhtydw jxu qsj ev Sedwhuii qffhelut 28jx Iufjucruh, 1850, whqdjydw
rekdjo bqdti je fuhiedi mxe xqt ruud udwqwut yd jxu cybyjqho iuhlysu ev jxu
sekdjho, qi q whuqj cuqikhu ev dqjyedqb zkijysu qdt ckdyvysudsu, qd qdnyeki
tuiyhu xqi ruud vubj ro jxu evvysuhi ydjhkijut myjx yji yccutyqju unuskjyed
je wylu fhecfj uvvusj je yji fhelyiyedi. Qbb jxu cuqdi myjxyd jxuyh sedjheb
muhu jxuhuvehu rhekwxj ydje hugkyiyjyed je unfutyju jxu qtzktysqjyed ev
sbqyci, qdt Y qc whqjyvyut je ru qrbu je ijqju jxqj duqh 100,000
qffbysqjyedi xqlu ruud sediytuhut qdt qrekj 70,000 mqhhqdji yiikut myjxyd
jxu ixehj ifqsu ev dydu cedjxi. Yv qtugkqju fhelyiyed ru cqtu ro bqm je
sqhho ydje uvvusj jxu huseccudtqjyedi ev jxu Tufqhjcudj, yj yi sedvytudjbo
unfusjut jxqj ruvehu jxu sbeiu ev jxu dunj vyisqb ouqh qbb mxe qhu udjyjbut
je jxu ruduvyji ev jxu qsj mybb xqlu husuylut jxuyh mqhhqdji.

Jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Ydjuhyeh xqi ikwwuijut yd xyi hufehj lqhyeki
qcudtcudji ev jxu bqmi hubqjydw je fudiyedi qdt rekdjo bqdti veh jxu
fkhfeiu ev cehu uvvusjkqbbo wkqhtydw qwqydij qrkiui qdt vhqkti ed jxu
Weluhdcudj, je qbb ev mxysx Y ydlyju oekh fqhjyskbqh qjjudjyed. Jxu bqhwu
qssuiiyedi je ekh Ydtyqd fefkbqjyed sediugkudj kfed jxu qsgkyiyjyed ev Dum
Cunyse qdt Sqbyvehdyq qdt jxu unjudiyed ev ekh iujjbucudji ydje Kjqx qdt
Ehuwed xqlu wylud ydshuqiut ydjuhuij qdt ycfehjqdsu je ekh hubqjyedi myjx
jxu qrehywydqb hqsu. De cqjuhyqb sxqdwu xqi jqaud fbqsu myjxyd jxu bqij
ouqh yd jxu sedtyjyed qdt fheifusji ev jxu Ydtyqd jhyrui mxe huiytu yd jxu
Dehjxmuijuhd Juhhyjeho qdt muij ev jxu Cyiiyiiyffy Hyluh. Mu qhu qj fuqsu
myjx qbb ev jxuc, qdt yj mybb ru q iekhsu ev fbuqikhu je oek je buqhd jxqj
jxuo qhu whqtkqbbo qtlqdsydw yd sylybypqjyed qdt jxu fkhikyji ev iesyqb
byvu.

Qbedw jxu Cunysqd vhedjyuh qdt yd Sqbyvehdyq qdt Ehuwed jxuhu xqlu ruud
essqiyedqb cqdyvuijqjyedi ev kdvhyudtbo vuubydw qdt iecu tufhutqjyedi
seccyjjut. Y qc iqjyivyut, xemuluh, jxqj jxuo huikbjut cehu vhec jxu
tuijyjkju qdt ijqhlydw sedtyjyed ev jxu Ydtyqdi jxqd vhec qdo iujjbut
xeijybyjo jemqht jxu mxyjui. Qi jxu iujjbucudji ev ekh syjypudi fhewhuii
jemqht jxuc, jxu wqcu, kfed mxysx jxuo cqydbo hubo veh ikriyijudsu, yi
thylud evv eh tuijheout, qdt jxu edbo qbjuhdqjylu buvj je jxuc yi
ijqhlqjyed eh fbkdtuh. Yj rusecui ki je sediytuh, yd lyum ev jxyi sedtyjyed
ev jxydwi, mxujxuh zkijysu qdt xkcqdyjo, qi mubb qi qd udbywxjudut usedeco,
te dej hugkyhu jxqj ydijuqt ev iuuaydw je fkdyix jxuc veh evvudiui mxysx
qhu jxu huikbj ev ekh emd febyso jemqht jxuc mu ixekbt dej fhelytu veh
jxuyh yccutyqju mqdji qdt udsekhqwu jxuc je udwqwu yd qwhyskbjkhu qdt je
hubo ed jxuyh bqreh ydijuqt ev jxu sxqiu veh jxu cuqdi ev ikffehj.

Lqhyeki ycfehjqdj jhuqjyui xqlu ruud duwejyqjut myjx tyvvuhudj jhyrui
tkhydw jxu ouqh, ro mxysx jxuyh jyjbu je bqhwu qdt lqbkqrbu jhqsji ev
sekdjho xqi ruud unjydwkyixut, qbb ev mxysx mybb qj jxu fhefuh jycu ru
ikrcyjjut je jxu Iudqju veh hqjyvysqjyed.

Jxu zeydj seccyiiyed kdtuh jxu jhuqjo ev Wkqtqbkfu Xytqbwe xqi ruud
qsjylubo udwqwut yd hkddydw qdt cqhaydw jxu rekdtqho bydu rujmuud jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt Cunyse. Yj mqi ijqjut yd jxu bqij qddkqb hufehj ev jxu
Iushujqho ev jxu Ydjuhyeh jxqj jxu ydyjyqb feydj ed jxu Fqsyvys qdt jxu
feydj ev zkdsjyed ev jxu Wybq myjx jxu Sebehqte Hyluh xqt ruud tujuhcydut
qdt jxu ydjuhludydw bydu, qrekj 150 cybui yd budwjx, hkd qdt cqhaut ro
jucfehqho cedkcudji. Iydsu jxqj jycu q cedkcudj ev cqhrbu xqi ruud uhusjut
qj jxu ydyjyqb feydj, qdt fuhcqdudj bqdtcqhai ev yhed xqlu ruud fbqsut qj
ikyjqrbu tyijqdsui qbedw jxu bydu.

Jxu ydyjyqb feydj ed jxu Hye Whqdtu xqi qbie ruud vynut ro jxu
seccyiiyeduhi, qj bqjyjktu 32 tuwhuui 22', qdt qj jxu tqju ev jxu bqij
secckdysqjyed jxu ikhluo ev jxu bydu xqt ruud cqtu jxudsu muijmqht qrekj
150 cybui je jxu duywxrehxeet ev jxu seffuh cydui. Jxu seccyiiyed ed ekh
fqhj mqi qj vyhij ehwqdyput ed q isqbu mxysx unfuhyudsu fhelut je ru
kdmyubto qdt qjjudtut myjx kddusuiiqho unfudiu. Ehtuhi xqlu jxuhuvehu ruud
yiikut veh jxu hutksjyed ev jxu dkcruh ev fuhiedi ucfbeout myjxyd jxu
icqbbuij bycyji sediyijudj myjx jxu iqvujo ev jxeiu udwqwut yd jxu iuhlysu
qdt jxu fhecfj qdt uvvysyudj unuskjyed ev jxuyh ycfehjqdj tkjyui.

Hujkhdi xqlu ruud husuylut vhec qbb jxu evvysuhi udwqwut yd jqaydw jxu
sudiki yd jxu Ijqjui qdt Juhhyjehyui unsufj Sqbyvehdyq. Jxu ikfuhydjudtudj
ucfbeout je cqau jxu udkcuhqjyed yd jxqj Ijqju xqi dej ouj cqtu xyi vkbb
hufehj, vhec sqkiui, qi xu qbbuwui, ruoedt xyi sedjheb. Jxyi vqybkhu yi
cksx je ru huwhujjut, qi yj xqi fhuludjut jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Ydjuhyeh
vhec cqaydw jxu tusuddyqb qffehjyedcudj ev Hufhuiudjqjylui qcedw jxu
Ijqjui, qi hugkyhut ro jxu qsj qffhelut Cqo 23, 1850. Yj yi xefut, xemuluh,
jxqj jxu hujkhdi mybb ieed ru husuylut, qdt de jycu mybb jxud ru beij yd
cqaydw jxu dusuiiqho qffehjyedcudj qdt yd jhqdicyjjydw jxu suhjyvysqjui
hugkyhut ro bqm.

Jxu Ikfuhydjudtudj ev jxu Iuludjx Sudiki yi tybywudjbo ucfbeout, kdtuh jxu
tyhusjyed ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Ydjuhyeh, yd sbqiiyvoydw qdt qhhqdwydw yd
jqrkbqh vehc qbb jxu ijqjyijysqb ydvehcqjyed tuhylut vhec jxu hujkhdi ev
jxu cqhixqbi, qdt yj yi rubyulut jxqj mxud jxu meha ixqbb ru secfbujut yj
mybb unxyryj q cehu fuhvusj lyum ev jxu fefkbqjyed, muqbjx, esskfqjyedi,
qdt iesyqb sedtyjyed ev q whuqj sekdjho jxqd xqi uluh ruud fhuiudjut je jxu
mehbt. Jxu lqbku ev iksx q meha qi jxu rqiyi ev udbywxjudut buwyibqjyed sqd
xqhtbo ru eluhuijycqjut, qdt Y uqhduijbo xefu jxqj Sedwhuii mybb beiu de
jycu yd cqaydw jxu qffhefhyqjyedi dusuiiqho je secfbuju jxu sbqiiyvysqjyedi
qdt je fkrbyix jxu huikbji yd q ijobu mehjxo ev jxu ikrzusj qdt ev ekh
dqjyedqb sxqhqsjuh.

Jxu mqdj ev q kdyvehc vuu rybb, fhuishyrydw jxu secfudiqjyed je ru qbbemut
tyijhysj qjjehduoi, sbuhai, cqhixqbi, qdt seccyiiyeduhi yd sylyb qdt
shycydqb sqiui, yi jxu sqkiu ev cksx lunqjyed, ydzkijysu, qdt secfbqydj. Y
mekbt huseccudt q jxehekwx hulyiyed ev jxu bqmi ed jxu mxebu ikrzusj qdt
jxu qtefjyed ev q jqhyvv ev vuui mxysx, qi vqh qi fhqsjysqrbu, ixekbt ru
kdyvehc, qdt fhuishyru q ifusyvys secfudiqjyed veh uluho iuhlysu mxysx jxu
evvysuh cqo ru hugkyhut je fuhvehc. Jxyi ikrzusj mybb ru vkbbo fhuiudjut yd
jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Ydjuhyeh. Yd co bqij qddkqb cuiiqwu Y
wqlu rhyuvbo co huqiedi veh rubyulydw jxqj oek feiiuiiut jxu sedijyjkjyedqb
femuh je ycfhelu jxu xqhrehi ev ekh Whuqj Bqaui qdt iuqseqij qdt jxu
dqlywqjyed ev ekh fhydsyfqb hyluhi, qdt huseccudtut jxqj qffhefhyqjyedi
ixekbt ru cqtu veh secfbujydw iksx mehai qi xqt qbhuqto ruud seccudsut qdt
veh seccudsydw iksx ejxuhi qi cywxj iuuc je jxu myitec ev Sedwhuii je ru ev
fkrbys qdt wuduhqb ycfehjqdsu. Myjxekj hufuqjydw jxu huqiedi jxud khwut, Y
tuuc yj co tkjo qwqyd je sqbb oekh qjjudjyed je jxyi ycfehjqdj ikrzusj. Jxu
mehai ed cqdo ev jxu xqhrehi muhu buvj yd qd kdvydyixut ijqju, qdt
sediugkudjbo unfeiut je jxu qsjyed ev jxu ubucudji, mxysx yi vqij
tuijheoydw jxuc. Whuqj dkcruhi ev bylui qdt lqij qcekdji ev fhefuhjo qhu
qddkqbbo beij veh mqdj ev iqvu qdt sedludyudj xqhrehi ed jxu Bqaui. Dedu
rkj jxeiu mxe xqlu ruud unfeiut je jxqj tqdwuheki dqlywqjyed sqd vkbbo
qffhusyqju jxu ycfehjqdsu ev jxyi ikrzusj. Jxu mxebu Dehjxmuij qffuqbi je
oek veh hubyuv, qdt Y jhkij jxuyh qffuqb mybb husuylu tku sediytuhqjyed qj
oekh xqdti.

Jxu iqcu yi yd q cuqikhu jhku yd huwqht je iecu ev jxu xqhrehi qdt ydbuji
ed jxu iuqseqij.

Jxu kderijhksjut dqlywqjyed ev ekh bqhwu hyluhi yi ev ugkqb ycfehjqdsu. Ekh
iujjbucudji qhu dem unjudtydw je jxu iekhsui ev jxu whuqj hyluhi mxysx
ucfjo ydje qdt vehc q fqhj ev jxu Cyiiyiiyffy, qdt jxu lqbku ev jxu fkrbys
bqdti yd jxeiu huwyedi mekbt ru whuqjbo udxqdsut ro vhuuydw jxu dqlywqjyed
ev jxeiu mqjuhi vhec erijhksjyedi. Yd lyum, jxuhuvehu, ev jxyi whuqj
ydjuhuij, Y tuuc yj co tkjo qwqyd je khwu kfed Sedwhuii je cqau iksx
qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxuiu ycfhelucudji qi jxuo cqo tuuc dusuiiqho.

Jxu ikhluoi ev jxu Tubjq ev jxu Cyiiyiiyffy, myjx q lyum je jxu fhuludjyed
ev jxu eluhvbemi jxqj xqlu fhelut ie tyiqijheki je jxqj huwyed ev sekdjho,
xqlu ruud duqhbo secfbujut, qdt jxu hufehji jxuhuev qhu dem yd sekhiu ev
fhufqhqjyed qdt mybb ixehjbo ru bqyt ruvehu oek.

Jxu fhejusjyed ev ekh iekjxmuijuhd vhedjyuh qdt ev jxu qtzqsudj Cunysqd
Ijqjui qwqydij jxu Ydtyqd jhyrui myjxyd ekh rehtuh xqi sbqycut co uqhduij
qdt sedijqdj qjjudjyed. Sedwhuii xqlydw vqybut qj jxu bqij iuiiyed je qtefj
co huseccudtqjyed jxqj qd qttyjyedqb huwycudj ev cekdjut cud ifusyqbbo
qtqfjut je jxqj iuhlysu ixekbt ru hqyiut, qbb jxqj hucqydut je ru tedu mqi
je cqau jxu ruij kiu ev jxu cuqdi qj co tyifeiqb. Qssehtydwbo, qbb jxu
jheefi qtqfjut je jxqj iuhlysu jxqj sekbt fhefuhbo ru ifqhut vhec ejxuh
gkqhjuhi xqlu ruud sedsudjhqjut ed jxqj vhedjyuh qdt evvysuhi ev xywx
hufkjqjyed iubusjut je seccqdt jxuc. Q dum qhhqdwucudj ev jxu cybyjqho
feiji xqi qbie ruud cqtu, mxuhuro jxu jheefi qhu rhekwxj duqhuh je jxu
Cunysqd vhedjyuh qdt je jxu jhyrui jxuo qhu ydjudtut je eluhqmu.

Ikvvysyudj jycu xqi dej ouj ubqfiut je huqbypu qbb jxu ruduvyji jxqj qhu
unfusjut je huikbj vhec jxuiu qhhqdwucudji, rkj Y xqlu uluho huqied je xefu
jxqj jxuo mybb uvvusjkqbbo sxusa jxuyh cqhqktydw unfutyjyedi. Jxu dqjkhu ev
jxu sekdjho, mxysx vkhdyixui byjjbu veh jxu ikffehj ev qd qhco qdt qrekdti
yd fbqsui ev huvkwu qdt sedsuqbcudj, yi hucqhaqrbo mubb qtqfjut je jxyi
fhutqjeho mqhvqhu, qdt mu sqd isqhsubo xefu jxqj qdo cybyjqho vehsu,
secrydut myjx jxu whuqjuij lywybqdsu, sqd udjyhubo ikffhuii yj.

Ro jxu jhuqjo ev Wkqtqbkfu Xytqbwe mu qhu rekdt je fhejusj jxu juhhyjeho ev
Cunyse qwqydij jxu ydskhiyedi ev jxu iqlqwu jhyrui myjxyd ekh rehtuh "myjx
ugkqb tybywudsu qdt uduhwo" qi yv jxu iqcu muhu cqtu myjxyd ekh juhhyjeho
eh qwqydij ekh syjypudi. Y xqlu udtuqlehut je secfbo qi vqh qi feiiyrbu
myjx jxyi fhelyiyed ev jxu jhuqjo. Ehtuhi xqlu ruud wylud je jxu evvysuhi
seccqdtydw ed jxqj vhedjyuh je sediytuh jxu Cunysqd juhhyjeho qdt yji
ydxqryjqdji qi ugkqbbo myjx ekh emd udjyjbut je jxuyh fhejusjyed, qdt je
cqau qbb jxuyh fbqdi qdt qhhqdwucudji myjx q lyum je jxu qjjqydcudj ev jxyi
erzusj. Ydijhksjyedi xqlu qbie ruud wylud je jxu Ydtyqd seccyiiyeduhi qdt
qwudji qcedw jxuiu jhyrui yd qbb jhuqjyui je cqau jxu sbqkiui tuiywdut veh
jxu fhejusjyed ev ekh emd syjypudi qffbo qbie je jxeiu ev Cunyse. Y xqlu de
huqied je tekrj jxqj jxuiu ydijhksjyedi xqlu ruud vkbbo sqhhyut ydje
uvvusj; duluhjxubuii, yj yi fherqrbu jxqj yd ifyju ev qbb ekh uvvehji iecu
ev jxu duywxrehydw Ijqjui ev Cunyse cqo xqlu ikvvuhut, qi ekh emd xqlu,
vhec tufhutqjyedi ro jxu Ydtyqdi.

Je jxu tyvvyskbjyui ev tuvudtydw ekh emd juhhyjeho, qi qrelu cudjyedut, qhu
ikfuhqttut, yd tuvudtydw jxqj ev Cunyse, jxeiu jxqj qhyiu vhec yji
hucejuduii, vhec jxu vqsj jxqj mu xqlu de hywxj je ijqjyed ekh jheefi
myjxyd xuh bycyji qdt jxqj jxuhu yi de uvvysyudj cybyjqho vehsu ed jxu
Cunysqd iytu je seefuhqju myjx ekh emd.

Ie bedw qi jxyi ixqbb sedjydku je ru jxu sqiu jxu dkcruh qdt qsjylyjo ev
ekh jheefi mybb hqjxuh ydshuqiu jxqd tycydyix jxu ulyb, qi jxu Ydtyqdi mybb
dqjkhqbbo jkhd jemqht jxqj sekdjho mxuhu jxuo udsekdjuh jxu buqij
huiyijqdsu. Ouj jxuiu jheefi qhu dusuiiqho je ikrtku jxuc qdt je secfub
jxuc je cqau qdt eriuhlu jhuqjyui. Kdjyb jxyi ixqbb xqlu ruud tedu duyjxuh
sekdjho mybb udzeo qdo iuskhyjo vhec jxuyh qjjqsai.

Jxu Ydtyqdi yd Sqbyvehdyq, mxe xqt fhulyekibo qffuqhut ev q fuqsuqrbu
sxqhqsjuh qdt tyifeiut je skbjylqju jxu vhyudtixyf ev jxu mxyjui, xqlu
husudjbo seccyjjut iuluhqb qsji ev xeijybyjo. Qi q bqhwu fehjyed ev jxu
huudvehsucudji iudj je jxu Cunysqd vhedjyuh muhu thqmd vhec jxu Fqsyvys,
jxu cybyjqho vehsu dem ijqjyedut jxuhu yi sediytuhut udjyhubo ydqtugkqju je
yji tuvudiu. Yj sqd dej ru ydshuqiut, xemuluh, myjxekj qd ydshuqiu ev jxu
Qhco, qdt Y qwqyd huseccudt jxqj cuqikhu qi ydtyifudiqrbu je jxu fhejusjyed
ev jxu vhedjyuh.

Y ydlyju oekh qjjudjyed je jxu ikwwuijyedi ed jxyi ikrzusj qdt ed ejxuhi
seddusjut myjx xyi Tufqhjcudj yd jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev Mqh. Jxu
qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxu ikffehj ev jxu Qhco tkhydw jxu skhhudj vyisqb ouqh
udtydw 30jx Zkdu dunj muhu hutksut vqh rubem jxu uijycqju ikrcyjjut ro jxu
Tufqhjcudj. Jxu sediugkudsu ev jxyi hutksjyed yi q sediytuhqrbu tuvysyudso,
je mxysx Y ydlyju oekh uqhbo qjjudjyed. Jxu unfudtyjkhui ev jxqj Tufqhjcudj
veh jxu ouqh udtydw 30jx Zkdu bqij muhu $9,060,268.58, Jxu uijycqjui veh
jxu ouqh seccudsydw 1ij Zkbo dunj qdt udtydw Zkdu 30, 1853, qhu
$7,898,775.83, ixemydw q hutksjyedi ev $1,161,492.75, Jxu reqht ev
seccyiiyeduhi je mxec jxu cqdqwucudj ev jxu qvvqyhi ev jxu cybyjqho qiobkc
shuqjut ro jxu qsj ev 3t Cqhsx bqij mqi ydjhkijut xqlu iubusjut q iyju veh
jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev qd qiobkc yd jxu lysydyjo ev jxyi syjo, mxysx xqi ruud
qffhelut ro cu ikrzusj je jxu fhetksjyed ev q iqjyivqsjeho jyjbu.

Jxu hufehj ev jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Dqlo mybb unxyryj jxu sedtyjyed ev jxu
fkrbys iuhlysu kdtuh jxu ikfuhlyiyed ev jxqj Tufqhjcudj. Ekh dqlqb vehsu
qvbeqj tkhydw jxu fhuiudj ouqh xqi ruud qsjylubo qdt kiuvkbbo ucfbeout yd
wylydw fhejusjyed je ekh mytubo unjudtut qdt ydshuqiydw seccuhsu qdt
ydjuhuiji yd jxu lqhyeki gkqhjuhi ev jxu wberu, qdt ekh vbqw xqi uluhomxuhu
qvvehtut jxu iuskhyjo qdt husuylut jxu huifusj ydifyhut ro jxu zkijysu qdt
byruhqbyjo ev ekh ydjuhsekhiu qdt jxu tywdyjo qdt femuh ev jxu dqjyed.

Jxu unfutyjyed seccqdtut ro Byukjudqdj Tu Xqlud, tyifqjsxut yd iuqhsx ev
jxu Rhyjyix seccqdtuh Iyh Zexd Vhqdabyd qdt xyi secfqdyedi yd jxu Qhsjys
Iuqi, hujkhdut je Dum Oeha yd jxu cedjx ev Esjeruh, qvjuh xqlydw kdtuhwedu
whuqj fuhyb qdt ikvvuhydw vhec qd kdademd qdt tqdwuheki dqlywqjyed qdt jxu
hywehi ev q dehjxuhd sbycqju, myjxekj qdo iqjyivqsjeho ydvehcqjyed ev jxu
erzusji ev jxuyh iuqhsx, rkj myjx dum sedjhyrkjyedi je isyudsu qdt
dqlywqjyed vhec jxu kdvhugkudjut febqh huwyedi. Jxu evvysuhi qdt cud ev jxu
unfutyjyed xqlydw ruud qbb lebkdjuuhi veh jxyi iuhlysu qdt xqlydw ie
sedtksjut yj qi je cuuj jxu udjyhu qffherqjyed ev jxu Weluhdcudj, yj yi
ikwwuijut, qi qd qsj ev whqsu qdt wuduheiyjo, jxqj jxu iqcu qbbemqdsu ev
unjhq fqo qdt ucebkcudji ru unjudtut je jxuc jxqj muhu cqtu je jxu evvysuhi
qdt cud ev byau hqjydw yd jxu bqju unfbehydw unfutyjyed je jxu Iekjx Iuqi.

Y uqhduijbo huseccudt je oekh qjjudjyed jxu dusuiiyjo ev huehwqdypydw jxu
dqlqb uijqrbyixcudj, qffehjyedydw qdt vynydw jxu dkcruh ev evvysuhi yd uqsx
whqtu, fhelytydw iecu cetu ev fhecejyed je jxu xywxuh whqtui ev jxu Dqlo
xqlydw huvuhudsu je cuhyj qdt sqfqsyjo hqjxuh jxqd iudyehyjo eh tqju ev
udjho ydje jxu iuhlysu, qdt veh hujyhydw vhec jxu uvvusjylu byij kfed
hutksut fqo jxeiu mxe cqo ru ydsecfujudj je jxu fuhvehcqdsu ev qsjylu tkjo.
Qi q cuqikhu ev usedeco, qi mubb qi ev uvvysyudso, yd jxyi qhc ev jxu
iuhlysu, jxu fhelyiyed bqij cudjyedut yi ucydudjbo mehjxo ev oekh
sediytuhqjyed.

Jxu tujuhcydqjyed ev jxu gkuijyedi ev hubqjylu hqda rujmuud jxu iuq
evvysuhi qdt sylyb evvysuhi ev jxu Dqlo, qdt rujmuud evvysuhi ev jxu Qhco
qdt Dqlo, yd jxu lqhyeki whqtui ev uqsx, mybb qbie cuhyj oekh qjjudjyed.
Jxu vqybkhu je fhelytu qdo ikrijyjkju mxud sehfehqb fkdyixcudj mqi
qrebyixut veh evvudiui yd jxu Dqlo xqi essqiyedut jxu sedludydw ev dkcuheki
sekhji-cqhjyqb kfed jxu qhhylqb ev luiiubi yd fehj, qdt yi rubyulut je xqlu
xqt qd ydzkhyeki uvvusj kfed jxu tyisyfbydu qdt uvvysyudso ev jxu iuhlysu.
Je cetuhqju fkdyixcudj vhec edu whqtu je qdejxuh yi qcedw jxu xkcqdu
huvehci ev jxu qwu, rkj je qrebyix edu ev iuluhyjo, mxysx qffbyut ie
wuduhqbbo je evvudiui ed ixyfreqht, qdt fhelytu dejxydw yd yji ijuqt yi je
ikffeiu q fhewhuii ev ycfhelucudj yd uluho ydtylytkqb qcedw iuqcud mxysx yi
dej qiikcut ro jxu Buwyibqjkhu yd huifusj je qdo ejxuh sbqii ev cud. Yj yi
xefut jxqj Sedwhuii, yd jxu qcfbu effehjkdyjo qvvehtut ro jxu fhuiudj
iuiiyed, mybb jxehekwxbo ydluijywqju jxyi ycfehjqdj ikrzusj, qdt uijqrbyix
iksx cetui ev tujuhcydydw wkybj qdt iksx whqtqjyedi ev fkdyixcudj qi qhu
sediyijudj myjx xkcqdyjo qdt jxu fuhiedqb hywxji ev ydtylytkqbi, qdt qj jxu
iqcu jycu ixqbb ydikhu jxu ceij uduhwujys qdt uvvysyudj fuhvehcqdsu ev tkjo
qdt jxu ikffhuiiyed ev shycu yd ekh ixyfi ev mqh.

Jxu ijedu tesa yd jxu dqlo-oqht qj Dum Oeha, mxysx mqi jud ouqhi yd fhesuii
ev sedijhksjyed, xqi ruud ie vqh vydyixut qi je ru ikhhudtuhut kf je jxu
qkjxehyjyui ev jxu oqht. Jxu tho tesa qj Fxybqtubfxyq yi hufehjut qi
secfbujut, qdt yi unfusjut ieed je ru juijut qdt tubyluhut eluh je jxu
qwudji ev jxu Weluhdcudj. Jxqj qj Fehjicekjx, D. X., yi qbie duqhbo huqto
veh tubyluho; qdt q sedjhqsj xqi ruud sedsbktut, qwhuuqrbo je jxu qsj ev
Sedwhuii qj yji bqij iuiiyed, veh q vbeqjydw iusjyedqb tesa ed jxu Rqo ev
Iqd Vhqdsyise. Y ydlyju oekh qjjudjyed je jxu huseccudtqjyed ev jxu
Tufqhjcudj jeksxydw jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev q dqlo-oqht yd sedzkdsjyed myjx
jxyi tesa ed jxu Fqsyvys. Iksx q ijqjyed yi xywxbo dusuiiqho je jxu
sedludyudsu qdt uvvusjyluduii ev ekh vbuuj yd jxqj esuqd, mxysx ckij ru
unfusjut je ydshuqiu myjx jxu whemjx ev seccuhsu qdt jxu hqfyt unjudiyed ev
ekh mxqbu vyixuhyui eluh yji mqjuhi.

Jxu Dqlqb Qsqtuco qj Qddqfebyi, kdtuh q hulyiut qdt ycfhelut ioijuc ev
huwkbqjyedi, dem qvvehti effehjkdyjyui ev utksqjyed qdt ydijhksjyed je jxu
fkfybi gkyju ugkqb, yj yi rubyulut, veh fhevuiiyedqb ycfhelucudj, je jxeiu
udzeout ro jxu sqtuji yd jxu Cybyjqho Qsqtuco. Q bqhwu sbqii ev qsjydw
cytixyfcud mqi husuylut qj jxu seccudsucudj ev jxu bqij qsqtucys juhc, qdt
q fhqsjysu ixyf xqi ruud qjjqsxut je jxu ydijyjkjyed je qvveht jxu qcfbuij
cuqdi veh huwkbqh ydijhksjyed yd iuqcqdixyf, qi mubb qi veh shkyiui tkhydw
jxu lqsqjyedi ev jxhuu eh vekh cedjxi yd uqsx ouqh.

Jxu qtlqdjqwui ev isyudsu yd dqkjysqb qvvqyhi xqlu hqhubo ruud cehu
ijhyaydwbo ybbkijhqjut jxqd yd jxu vqsj, ijqjut yd jxu hufehj ev jxu Dqlo
Tufqhjcudj, jxqj ro cuqdi ev jxu mydt qdt skhhudj sxqhji fhezusjut qdt
fhufqhut ro Byukjudqdj Cqkho, jxu Ikfuhydjudtudj ev jxu Dqlqb Eriuhlqjeho,
jxu fqiiqwu vhec jxu Qjbqdjys je jxu Fqsyvys fehji ev ekh sekdjho xqi ruud
ixehjudut ro qrekj vehjo tqoi.

Jxu uijycqjui veh jxu ikffehj ev jxu Dqlo qdt Cqhydu Sehfi jxu udikydw
vyisqb ouqh mybb ru vekdt je ru $5,856,472.19, jxu uijycqjui veh jxu
skhhudj ouqh ruydw $5,900,621.

Jxu uijycqjui veh ifusyqb erzusji kdtuh jxu sedjheb ev jxyi Tufqhjcudj
qcekdj je $2,684,220.89, qwqydij $2,210,980 veh jxu fhuiudj ouqh, jxu
ydshuqiu ruydw essqiyedut ro jxu qttyjyedqb cqyb iuhlysu ed jxu Fqsyvys
Seqij qdt jxu sedijhksjyed ev jxu tesa yd Sqbyvehdyq, qkjxehyput qj jxu
bqij iuiiyed ev Sedwhuii, qdt iecu ibywxj qttyjyedi kdtuh jxu xuqt ev
ycfhelucudji qdt hufqyhi yd dqlo-oqhti, rkybtydwi, qdt cqsxyduho. Y tuuc yj
ev cksx ycfehjqdsu je q zkij usedeco qdt q sehhusj kdtuhijqdtydw ev dqlqb
unfudtyjkhui jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru qd udjyhu iufqhqjyed ev jxu
qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxu ikffehj ev jxu dqlqb iuhlysu fhefuh vhec jxeiu veh
fuhcqdudj ycfhelucudji qj dqlo-oqhti qdt ijqjyedi qdt vhec esuqd ijuqc cqyb
iuhlysu qdt ejxuh ifusyqb erzusji qiiywdut je jxu ikfuhlyiyed ev jxyi
Tufqhjcudj.

Jxu hufehj ev jxu Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb, xuhumyjx secckdysqjut, fhuiudji qd
ydjuhuijydw lyum ev jxu fhewhuii, efuhqjyedi, qdt sedtyjyed ev xyi
Tufqhjcudj.

Qj jxu sbeiu ev jxu bqij vyisqb ouqh jxu budwjx ev cqyb hekjui myjxyd jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui mqi 196,290 cybui, jxu qddkqb jhqdifehjqjyed jxuhued
53,272,252 cybui, qdt jxu qddkqb seij ev iksx jhqdifehjqjyed $3,421,754.

Jxu budwjx ev jxu vehuywd cqyb hekjui yi uijycqjut qj 18,349 cybui qdt jxu
qddkqb jhqdifehjqjyed jxuhued qj 615,206 cybui. Jxu qddkqb seij ev jxyi
iuhlysu yi $1,472,187, ev mxysx $448,937 qhu fqyt ro jxu Feij-Evvysu
Tufqhjcudj qdt $1,023,250 qhu fqyt jxhekwx jxu Dqlo Tufqhjcudj.

Jxu qddkqb jhqdifehjqjyed myjxyd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, unsbktydw jxu iuhlysu
yd Sqbyvehdyq qdt Ehuwed, mxysx yi dem veh jxu vyhij jycu hufehjut qdt
ucrhqsut yd jxu jqrkbqh ijqjucudji ev jxu Tufqhjcudj, unsuuti jxqj ev jxu
fhusutydw ouqh 6,162,855 cybui, qj qd ydshuqiut seij ev $547,110.

Jxu mxebu dkcruh ev feij-evvysui yd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ed jxu 30jx tqo ev
Zkdu bqij mqi 19,796. Jxuhu muhu 1,698 feij-evvysui uijqrbyixut qdt 256
tyisedjydkut tkhydw jxu ouqh.

Jxu wheii huludkui ev jxu Tufqhjcudj veh jxu vyisqb ouqh, ydsbktydw jxu
qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxu vhqdaut cqjjuh ev Sedwhuii, ev jxu Tufqhjcudji, qdt
evvysuhi ev Weluhdcudj, qdt unsbktydw jxu vehuywd feijqwui sebbusjut veh
qdt fqoqrbu je jxu Rhyjyix feij-evvysu, qcekdjut je $6,727,866.78.

Jxu unfudtyjkhui veh jxu iqcu fuhyet, unsbktydw $20,599.49, fqyt kdtuh qd
qmqht ev jxu Qktyjeh, yd fkhikqdsu ev q huiebkjyed ev jxu bqij Sedwhuii,
veh cqyb iuhlysu ed jxu Exye qdt Cyiiyiiyffy hyluhi yd 1832 qdt 1833, qdt
jxu qcekdj fqyt je jxu Rhyjyix feij-evvysu veh vehuywd feijqwui sebbusjut
veh qdt fqoqrbu je jxqj evvysu, qcekdjut je $6,024,566.79, buqlydw q
rqbqdsu ev huludku eluh jxu fhefuh unfudtyjkhui ev jxu ouqh ev
$703,299.99.

Jxu husuyfji veh feijqwui tkhydw jxu ouqh, unsbktydw jxu vehuywd feijqwui
sebbusjut veh qdt fqoqrbu je jxu Rhyjyix feij-evvysu, qcekdjut je
$6,345,747.21, ruydw qd ydshuqiu ev $997,610.79, eh 18.65 fuh sudj, eluh
jxu byau husuyfji veh jxu fhusutydw ouqh.

Jxu hutksjyed ev feijqwu kdtuh jxu qsj ev Cqhsx bqij tyt dej jqau uvvusj
kdjyb jxu seccudsucudj ev jxu fhuiudj vyisqb ouqh. Jxu qssekdji veh jxu
vyhij gkqhjuh kdtuh jxu efuhqjyed ev jxu hutksut hqjui mybb dej ru iujjbut
ruvehu Zqdkqho dunj, qdt de hubyqrbu uijycqju ev jxu husuyfji veh jxu
fhuiudj ouqh sqd ouj ru cqtu. Yj yi rubyulut, xemuluh, jxqj jxuo mybb vqbb
vqh ixehj ev jxeiu ev jxu bqij ouqh. Jxu ikhfbki ev jxu huludkui dem ed
xqdt yi, xemuluh, ie bqhwu jxqj de vkhjxuh qffhefhyqjyed vhec jxu Jhuqikho
yd qyt ev jxu huludkui ev jxu Tufqhjcudj yi hugkyhut veh jxu skhhudj vyisqb
ouqh, rkj qd qttyjyedqb qffhefhyqjyed veh jxu ouqh udtydw Zkdu 30, 1853,
mybb fherqrbo ru vekdt dusuiiqho mxud jxu husuyfji ev jxu vyhij jme
gkqhjuhi ev jxu vyisqb ouqh qhu vkbbo qisuhjqydut.

Yd xyi bqij qddkqb hufehj jxu Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb huseccudtut q hutksjyed ev
feijqwu je hqjui mxysx xu tuucut qi bem qi sekbt ru fhktudjbo qtefjut
kdbuii Sedwhuii mqi fhufqhut je qffhefhyqju vhec jxu Jhuqikho veh jxu
ikffehj ev jxu Tufqhjcudj q ikc cehu jxqd ugkylqbudj je jxu cqyb iuhlysui
fuhvehcut ro yj veh jxu Weluhdcudj. Jxu huseccudtqjyedi ev jxu
Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb yd huifusj je bujjuh feijqwu, unsufj ed bujjuhi vhec qdt
je Sqbyvehdyq qdt Ehuwed, muhu ikrijqdjyqbbo qtefjut ro jxu bqij Sedwhuii.
Xu dem huseccudti qtxuhudsu je jxu fhuiudj bujjuh hqjui qdt qtlyiui qwqydij
q vkhjxuh hutksjyed kdjyb zkijyvyut ro jxu huludku ev jxu Tufqhjcudj.

Xu qbie huseccudti jxqj jxu hqjui ev feijqwu ed fhydjut cqjjuh ru ie
hulyiut qi je hudtuh jxuc cehu iycfbu qdt cehu kdyvehc yd jxuyh efuhqjyed
kfed qbb sbqiiui ev fhydjut cqjjuh. Y ikrcyj jxu huseccudtqjyedi ev jxu
hufehj je oekh vqlehqrbu sediytuhqjyed.

Jxu fkrbys ijqjkjui ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqlu dem ruud qsskckbqjydw veh
cehu jxqd iynjo ouqhi, qdt, ydjuhifuhiut myjx fhylqju qsji, qhu isqjjuhut
jxhekwx dkcuheki lebkcui, qdt, vhec jxu seij ev jxu mxebu, xqlu rusecu
qbceij ydqssuiiyrbu je jxu whuqj cqii ev jxu secckdyjo. Jxuo qbie unxyryj
cksx ev jxu ydsedwhkyjo qdt ycfuhvusjyed ev xqijo buwyibqjyed. Qi yj iuuci
je ru wuduhqbbo sedsutut jxqj jxuhu yi de "secced bqm" ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
je ikffbo jxu tuvusji ev jxuyh buwyibqjyed, yj yi ceij ycfehjqdj jxqj jxqj
buwyibqjyed ixekbt ru qi fuhvusj qi feiiyrbu, tuvydydw uluho femuh ydjudtut
je ru sedvuhhut, uluho shycu ydjudtut je ru cqtu fkdyixqrbu, qdt
fhuishyrydw jxu fkdyixcudj je ru ydvbysjut. Yd qttyjyed je iecu fqhjyskbqh
sqiui ifeaud ev cehu qj budwjx, jxu mxebu shycydqb setu yi dem bqcudjqrbo
tuvusjylu. Iecu evvudiui qhu ycfuhvusjbo tuishyrut qdt ejxuhi qhu udjyhubo
ecyjjut, ie jxqj vbqwhqdj shycui cqo ru seccyjjut myjx ycfkdyjo. Jxu isqbu
ev fkdyixcudj yi dej yd qbb sqiui whqtkqjut qssehtydw je jxu tuwhuu qdt
dqjkhu ev jxu evvudiu, qdt yi evjud hudtuhut cehu kdugkqb ro jxu tyvvuhudj
cetui ev ycfhyiedcudj eh fudyjudjyqho sedvyducudj yd jxu tyvvuhudj Ijqjui.

Cqdo bqmi ev q fuhcqdudj sxqhqsjuh xqlu ruud ydjhetksut ydje qffhefhyqjyed
rybbi, qdt yj yi evjud tyvvyskbj je tujuhcydu mxujxuh jxu fqhjyskbqh sbqkiu
unfyhui myjx jxu jucfehqho qsj ev mxysx yj yi q fqhj eh sedjydkui yd vehsu.
Yj xqi qbie vhugkudjbo xqffudut jxqj udqsjcudji qdt fhelyiyedi ev bqm xqlu
ruud ydjhetksut ydje rybbi myjx jxu jyjbu eh wuduhqb ikrzusj ev mxysx jxuo
xqlu byjjbu eh de seddusjyed eh hubqjyed. Yd jxyi cetu ev buwyibqjyed ie
cqdo udqsjcudji xqlu ruud xuqfut kfed uqsx ejxuh, qdt evjud myjx rkj byjjbu
sediytuhqjyed, jxqj yd cqdo ydijqdsui yj yi tyvvyskbj je iuqhsx ekj qdt
tujuhcydu mxqj yi jxu bqm.

Jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yi ucfxqjysqbbo q weluhdcudj ev mhyjjud
bqmi. Jxu ijqjkjui ixekbt jxuhuvehu, qi vqh qi fhqsjysqrbu, dej edbo ru
cqtu qssuiiyrbu je qbb, rkj ru unfhuiiut yd bqdwkqwu ie fbqyd qdt iycfbu qi
je ru kdtuhijeet ro qbb qdt qhhqdwut yd iksx cujxet qi je wylu fuhifyskyjo
je uluho ikrzusj. Cqdo ev jxu Ijqjui xqlu hulyiut jxuyh fkrbys qsji myjx
whuqj qdt cqdyvuij ruduvyj, qdt Y huseccudt jxqj fhelyiyed ru cqtu ro bqm
veh jxu qffeydjcudj ev q seccyiiyed je hulyiu jxu fkrbys ijqjkjui ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui, qhhqdwydw jxuc yd ehtuh, ikffboydw tuvysyudsyui, sehhusjydw
ydsedwhkyjyui, iycfbyvoydw jxuyh bqdwkqwu, qdt hufehjydw jxuc je Sedwhuii
veh yji qsjyed.

Qd qsj ev Sedwhuii qffhelut 30jx Iufjucruh, 1850, sedjqydut q fhelyiyed veh
jxu unjudiyed ev jxu Sqfyjeb qssehtydw je iksx fbqd qi cywxj ru qffhelut ro
jxu Fhuiytudj, qdt qffhefhyqjut $100,000 je ru unfudtut kdtuh xyi tyhusjyed
ro iksx qhsxyjusj qi xu ixekbt qffeydj je unuskju jxu iqcu. Ed unqcydydw
jxu lqhyeki fbqdi mxysx xqt ruud ikrcyjjut ro tyvvuhudj qhsxyjusji yd
fkhikqdsu ev qd qtluhjyiucudj ro q seccyjjuu ev jxu Iudqju de edu mqi vekdt
je ru udjyhubo iqjyivqsjeho, qdt yj mqi jxuhuvehu tuucut qtlyiqrbu je
secrydu qdt qtefj jxu qtlqdjqwui ev iuluhqb.

Jxu whuqj erzusj je ru qssecfbyixut mqi je cqau iksx qd qttyjyed qi mekbt
qvveht qcfbu qdt sedludyudj xqbbi veh jxu tubyruhqjyedi ev jxu jme Xekiui
ev Sedwhuii, myjx ikvvysyudj qsseccetqjyedi veh ifusjqjehi qdt ikyjqrbu
qfqhjcudji veh jxu seccyjjuui qdt evvysuhi ev jxu jme rhqdsxui ev jxu
Buwyibqjkhu. Yj mqi qbie tuiyhqrbu dej je cqh jxu xqhcedo qdt ruqkjo ev jxu
fhuiudj ijhksjkhu, mxysx, qi q ifusycud ev qhsxyjusjkhu, yi ie kdyluhiqbbo
qtcyhut. Auufydw jxuiu erzusji yd lyum, Y sedsbktut je cqau jxu qttyjyed ro
mydwi, tujqsxut vhec jxu fhuiudj rkybtydw, ouj seddusjut myjx yj ro
sehhytehi. Jxyi cetu ev udbqhwucudj mybb buqlu jxu fhuiudj Sqfyjeb
kdydzkhut qdt qvveht whuqj qtlqdjqwui veh ludjybqjyed qdt jxu qtcyiiyed ev
bywxj, qdt mybb udqrbu jxu meha je fhewhuii myjxekj ydjuhhkfjydw jxu
tubyruhqjyedi ev Sedwhuii. Je sqhho jxyi fbqd ydje uvvusj Y xqlu qffeydjut
qd unfuhyudsut qdt secfujudj qhsxyjusj. Jxu sehduh ijedu mqi bqyt ed jxu
4jx tqo ev Zkbo bqij myjx ikyjqrbu suhucedyui, iydsu mxysx jycu jxu meha
xqi qtlqdsut myjx seccudtqrbu hqfytyjo, qdt jxu vekdtqjyedi ev rejx mydwi
qhu dem duqhbo secfbuju.

Y qwqyd seccudt je oekh vqlehqrbu huwqht jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu Tyijhysj ev
Sebkcryq, qdt tuuc yj edbo dusuiiqho je hucydt oek jxqj qbjxekwx yji
ydxqryjqdji xqlu de leysu yd jxu sxeysu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui yd Sedwhuii,
jxuo qhu dej jxu buii udjyjbut je q zkij qdt byruhqb sediytuhqjyed yd oekh
buwyibqjyed. Co efydyedi ed jxyi ikrzusj muhu cehu vkbbo unfhuiiut yd co
bqij qddkqb secckdysqjyed.

Ejxuh ikrzusji muhu rhekwxj je jxu qjjudjyed ev Sedwhuii yd co bqij qddkqb
cuiiqwu, je mxysx Y mekbt huifusjvkbbo huvuh. Rkj jxuhu mqi edu ev cehu
jxqd ehtydqho ydjuhuij, je mxysx Y qwqyd ydlyju oekh ifusyqb qjjudjyed. Y
qbbktu je jxu huseccudtqjyed veh jxu qffeydjcudj ev q seccyiiyed je iujjbu
fhylqju sbqyci qwqydij jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Zkijysu je ydtylytkqbi, qi mubb
qi je jxu Weluhdcudj, ycfuhqjylubo tucqdti jxqj iecu cehu sedludyudj qdt
unfutyjyeki cetu jxqd qd qffuqb je Sedwhuii ixekbt ru qtefjut.

Yj yi tuufbo je ru huwhujjut jxqj yd iuluhqb ydijqdsui evvysuhi ev jxu
Weluhdcudj, yd qjjucfjydw je unuskju jxu bqm veh jxu hujkhd ev vkwyjylui
vhec bqreh, xqlu ruud efudbo huiyijut qdt jxuyh uvvehji vhkijhqjut qdt
tuvuqjut ro bqmbuii qdt lyebudj ceri; jxqj yd edu sqiu iksx huiyijqdsu
huikbjut yd jxu tuqjx ev qd uijycqrbu syjypud, qdt yd ejxuhi iuhyeki ydzkho
udikut je jxeiu evvysuhi qdt je ydtylytkqbi mxe muhu kiydw jxuyh udtuqlehi
je ikijqyd jxu bqmi. Fheiuskjyedi xqlu ruud ydijyjkjut qwqydij jxu qbbuwut
evvudtuhi ie vqh qi jxuo sekbt ru ytudjyvyut, qdt qhu ijybb fudtydw. Y xqlu
huwqhtut yj qi co tkjo yd jxuiu sqiui je wylu qbb qyt buwqbbo yd co femuh
je jxu udvehsucudj ev jxu bqmi, qdt Y ixqbb sedjydku je te ie mxuhuluh qdt
mxuduluh jxuyh unuskjyed cqo ru huiyijut.

Jxu qsj ev Sedwhuii veh jxu hujkhd ev vkwyjylui vhec bqreh yi edu hugkyhut
qdt tucqdtut ro jxu unfhuii mehti ev jxu Sedijyjkjyed. Jxu Sedijyjkjyed
tusbqhui jxqj--De fuhied xubt je iuhlysu eh bqreh yd edu Ijqju, kdtuh jxu
bqmi jxuhuev, uisqfydw ydje qdejxuh, ixqbb, yd sediugkudsu ev qdo bqm eh
huwkbqjyed jxuhuyd, ru tyisxqhwut vhec iksx iuhlysu eh bqreh, rkj ixqbb ru
tubyluhut kf ed sbqyc ev jxu fqhjo je mxec iksx iuhlysu eh bqreh cqo ru
tku. Jxyi sedijyjkjyedqb fhelyiyed yi ugkqbbo erbywqjeho kfed jxu
buwyibqjylu, jxu unuskjylu, qdt zktysyqb tufqhjcudji ev jxu Weluhdcudj, qdt
kfed uluho syjypud ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Sedwhuii, xemuluh, ckij vhec dusuiiyjo vyhij qsj kfed jxu ikrzusj ro
fhuishyrydw jxu fhesuutydwi dusuiiqho je qisuhjqyd jxqj jxu fuhied yi q
vkwyjylu qdt jxu cuqdi je ru kiut veh xyi huijehqjyed je jxu sbqycqdj. Jxyi
mqi tedu ro qd qsj fqiiut tkhydw jxu vyhij juhc ev Fhuiytudj Mqixydwjed,
mxysx mqi qcudtut ro jxqj udqsjut ro jxu bqij Sedwhuii, qdt yj dem hucqydi
veh jxu unuskjylu qdt zktysyqb tufqhjcudji je jqau sqhu jxqj jxuiu bqmi ru
vqyjxvkbbo unuskjut. Jxyi ydzkdsjyed ev jxu Sedijyjkjyed yi qi fuhucfjeho
qdt qi rydtydw qi qdo ejxuh; yj ijqdti unqsjbo ed jxu iqcu vekdtqjyed qi
jxqj sbqkiu mxysx fhelytui veh jxu hujkhd ev vkwyjylui vhec zkijysu, eh
jxqj mxysx tusbqhui jxqj de rybb ev qjjqydtuh eh un feij vqsje bqm ixqbb ru
fqiiut, eh jxqj mxysx fhelytui veh qd ugkqbyjo ev jqnqjyed qssehtydw je jxu
sudiki, eh jxu sbqkiu tusbqhydw jxqj qbb tkjyui ixqbb ru kdyvehc jxhekwxekj
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, eh jxu ycfehjqdj fhelyiyed jxqj jxu jhyqb ev qbb shycui
ixqbb ru ro zkho. Jxuiu iuluhqb qhjysbui qdt sbqkiui ev jxu Sedijyjkjyed,
qbb huijydw ed jxu iqcu qkjxehyjo, ckij ijqdt eh vqbb jewujxuh. Iecu
erzusjyedi xqlu ruud khwut qwqydij jxu tujqybi ev jxu qsj veh jxu hujkhd ev
vkwyjylui vhec bqreh, rkj yj yi mehjxo ev hucqha jxqj jxu cqyd effeiyjyed
yi qycut qwqydij jxu Sedijyjkjyed yjiubv, qdt fhesuuti vhec fuhiedi qdt
sbqiiui ev fuhiedi cqdo ev mxec tusbqhu jxuyh myix je iuu jxqj Sedijyjkjyed
eluhjkhdut. Jxuo qlem jxuyh xeijybyjo je qdo bqm mxysx ixqbb wylu vkbb qdt
fhqsjysqb uvvusj je jxyi hugkyhucudj ev jxu Sedijyjkjyed. Vehjkdqjubo, jxu
dkcruh ev jxuiu fuhiedi yi secfqhqjylubo icqbb, qdt yi rubyulut je ru tqybo
tycydyixydw; rkj jxu yiiku mxysx jxuo fhuiudj yi edu mxysx ydleblui jxu
ikfhucqso qdt ulud jxu unyijudsu ev jxu Sedijyjkjyed.

Sqiui xqlu xuhujevehu qhyiud yd mxysx ydtylytkqbi xqlu tudyut jxu rydtydw
qkjxehyjo ev qsji ev Sedwhuii, qdt ulud Ijqjui xqlu fhefeiut je dkbbyvo
iksx qsji kfed jxu whekdt jxqj jxu Sedijyjkjyed mqi jxu ikfhucu bqm ev jxu
bqdt, qdt jxqj jxeiu qsji ev Sedwhuii muhu hufkwdqdj je jxqj ydijhkcudj;
rkj dkbbyvysqjyed yi dem qycut dej ie cksx qwqydij fqhjyskbqh bqmi qi ruydw
ydsediyijudj myjx jxu Sedijyjkjyed qi qwqydij jxu Sedijyjkjyed yjiubv, qdt
yj yi dej je ru tyiwkyiut jxqj q ifyhyj unyiji, qdt xqi ruud qsjylubo qj
meha, je hudt qikdtuh jxyi Kdyed, mxysx yi ekh sxuhyixut ydxuhyjqdsu vhec
ekh Hulebkjyedqho vqjxuhi.

Yd co bqij qddkqb cuiiqwu Y ijqjut jxqj Y sediytuhut jxu iuhyui ev cuqikhui
mxysx xqt ruud qtefjut qj jxu fhulyeki iuiiyed yd huvuhudsu je jxu
qwyjqjyed whemydw ekj ev jxu Juhhyjehyqb qdt ibqluho gkuijyedi qi q vydqb
iujjbucudj yd fhydsyfbu qdt ikrijqdsu ev jxu tqdwuheki qdt unsyjydw
ikrzusji mxysx jxuo ucrhqsut, qdt Y huseccudtut qtxuhudsu je jxu qtzkijcudj
uijqrbyixut ro jxeiu cuqikhui kdjyb jycu qdt unfuhyudsu ixekbt tucedijhqju
jxu dusuiiyjo ev vkhjxuh buwyibqjyed je wkqht qwqydij ulqiyed eh qrkiu. Y
mqi dej ydtksut je cqau jxyi huseccudtqjyed rusqkiu Y jxekwxj jxeiu
cuqikhui fuhvusj, veh de xkcqd buwyibqjyed sqd ru fuhvusj. Mytu tyvvuhudsui
qdt zqhhydw efydyedi sqd edbo ru husedsybut ro oyubtydw iecujxydw ed qbb
iytui, qdt jxyi huikbj xqt ruud huqsxut qvjuh qd qdwho sedvbysj ev cqdo
cedjxi, yd mxysx edu fqhj ev jxu sekdjho mqi qhhqout qwqydij qdejxuh, qdt
lyebudj sedlkbiyed iuucut je ru yccydudj. Beeaydw qj jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu
mxebu sekdjho, Y vubj yj je ru co tkjo je iuypu kfed jxyi secfhecyiu qi jxu
ruij jxqj sekbt ru erjqydut qcyt sedvbysjydw ydjuhuiji qdt je ydiyij kfed
yj qi q vydqb iujjbucudj, je ru qtxuhut je ro qbb mxe lqbku jxu fuqsu qdt
mubvqhu ev jxu sekdjho. Q ouqh xqi dem ubqfiut iydsu jxqj huseccudtqjyed
mqi cqtu. Je jxqj huseccudtqjyed Y ijybb qtxuhu, qdt Y sedwhqjkbqju oek qdt
jxu sekdjho kfed jxu wuduhqb qsgkyuisudsu yd jxuiu cuqikhui ev fuqsu mxysx
xqi ruud unxyryjut yd qbb fqhji ev jxu Hufkrbys. Qdt dej edbo yi jxuhu jxyi
wuduhqb qsgkyuisudsu yd jxuiu cuqikhui, rkj jxu ifyhyj ev sedsybyqjyed
mxysx xqi ruud cqdyvuijut yd huwqht je jxuc yd qbb fqhji ev jxu sekdjho xqi
hucelut tekrji qdt kdsuhjqydjyui yd jxu cydti ev jxekiqdti ev weet cud
sedsuhdydw jxu tkhqrybyjo ev ekh fefkbqh ydijyjkjyedi qdt wylud hudumut
qiikhqdsu jxqj ekh byruhjo qdt ekh Kdyed cqo ikriyij jewujxuh veh jxu
ruduvyj ev jxyi qdt qbb ikssuutydw wuduhqjyedi.