Azggjr-Xdoduzin ja ocz Nzivoz viy ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Ocz wmdza nkvxz rcdxc cvn zgvknzy ndixz ocz xgjnz ja tjpm gvno nznndji cvn
wzzi hvmfzy wt ij zsomvjmydivmt kjgdodxvg zqzio. Ocz lpvymziidvg zgzxodji
ja Xcdza Hvbdnomvoz cvn kvnnzy jaa rdoc gznn ocvi ocz pnpvg zsxdozhzio.
Cjrzqzm diydqdypvgn viy kvmodzn hvt cvqz wzzi ydnvkkjdiozy di ocz mznpgo,
do dn, izqzmoczgznn, v npwezxo ja ivodjivg xjibmvopgvodji ocvo ocz xcjdxz
cvn wzzi zaazxozy wt ocz diyzkziyzio npaamvbzn ja v amzz kzjkgz,
piydnopmwzy wt ocjnz diagpzixzn rcdxc di joczm xjpiomdzn cvqz ojj jaozi
vaazxozy ocz kpmdot ja kjkpgvm zgzxodjin.

Jpm bmvozapg ocvifn vmz ypz oj vi vgg-hzmxdapg Kmjqdyzixz, ijo jigt ajm
novtdib ocz kznodgzixz rcdxc di ydaazmzio ajmhn cvn yznjgvozy njhz ja jpm
xdodzn, wpo ajm xmjridib ocz gvwjmn ja ocz cpnwviyhvi rdoc vi vwpiyvio
cvmqzno viy ocz ivodji bzizmvggt rdoc ocz wgznndibn ja kzvxz viy
kmjnkzmdot.

Rdocdi v azr rzzfn ocz kpwgdx hdiy cvn wzzi yzzkgt vaazxozy wt ocz yzvoc ja
Yvidzg Rzwnozm, adggdib vo cdn yzxzvnz ocz jaadxz ja Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz.
Cdn vnnjxdvozn di ocz zszxpodqz bjqzmihzio cvqz ndixzmzgt nthkvocduzy rdoc
cdn avhdgt viy ocz kpwgdx bzizmvggt ji ocdn hjpmiapg jxxvndji. Cdn
xjhhviydib ovgzion, cdn bmzvo kjgdodxvg viy kmjaznndjivg zhdizixz, cdn
rzgg-omdzy kvomdjodnh, viy cdn gjib viy avdocapg nzmqdxzn di ocz hjno
dhkjmovio kpwgdx ompnon cvqz xvpnzy cdn yzvoc oj wz gvhziozy ocmjpbcjpo ocz
xjpiomt viy cvqz zvmizy ajm cdh v gvnodib kgvxz di jpm cdnojmt. Di ocz
xjpmnz ja ocz gvno nphhzm xjindyzmvwgz visdzot rvn xvpnzy ajm v ncjmo odhz
wt vi jaadxdvg diodhvodji amjh ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Bmzvo Wmdovdi ocvo jmyzmn
cvy wzzi bdqzi ajm ocz kmjozxodji ja ocz adnczmdzn pkji ocz xjvnon ja ocz
Wmdodnc kmjqdixzn di Ijmoc Vhzmdxv vbvdino ocz vggzbzy zixmjvxchzion ja ocz
adncdib qznnzgn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Amvixz. Ocz ncjmoiznn ja ocdn
ijodxz viy ocz nzvnji ja ocz tzvm nzzhzy oj hvfz do v hvoozm ja pmbzio
dhkjmovixz. Do rvn vo admno vkkmzcziyzy ocvo vi dixmzvnzy ivqvg ajmxz cvy
wzzi jmyzmzy oj ocz adncdib bmjpiyn oj xvmmt dioj zaazxo ocz Wmdodnc
diozmkmzovodji ja ocjnz kmjqdndjin di ocz xjiqziodji ja 1818 di mzazmzixz
oj ocz ompz diozio ja rcdxc ocz orj Bjqzmihzion ydaazm. Do rvn njji
ydnxjqzmzy ocvo npxc rvn ijo ocz yzndbi ja Bmzvo Wmdovdi, viy nvodnavxojmt
zskgvivodjin ja ocz mzvg jwezxon ja ocz hzvnpmz cvqz wzzi bdqzi wjoc czmz
viy di Gjiyji.

Ocz pivyepnozy ydaazmzixz, cjrzqzm, wzorzzi ocz orj Bjqzmihzion vn oj ocz
diozmkmzovodji ja ocz admno vmodxgz ja ocz xjiqziodji ja 1818 dn nodgg v
hvoozm ja dhkjmovixz. Vhzmdxvi adncdib qznnzgn, rdocdi idiz jm ozi tzvmn,
cvqz wzzi zsxgpyzy amjh rvozmn oj rcdxc oczt cvy amzz vxxznn ajm
orziot-adqz tzvmn vaozm ocz izbjodvodji ja ocz omzvot. Di 1845 ocdn
zsxgpndji rvn mzgvszy nj avm vn xjixzmin ocz Wvt ja Apiyt, wpo ocz epno viy
gdwzmvg dioziodji ja ocz cjhz Bjqzmihzio, di xjhkgdvixz rdoc rcvo rz ocdif
ocz ompz xjinompxodji ja ocz xjiqziodji, oj jkzi vgg ocz joczm jpozm wvtn
oj jpm adnczmhzi rvn vwviyjizy di xjinzlpzixz ja ocz jkkjndodji ja ocz
xjgjidzn. Ijordocnoviydib ocdn, ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqz, ndixz ocz Wvt ja
Apiyt rvn mzjkzizy oj jpm adnczmhzi di 1845, kpmnpzy ocz hjno gdwzmvg
xjpmnz ojrvmy ocz xjgjidvg adncdib diozmznon. Wt ocz mzqzipz gvr ja 1846
ocz ypodzn ji xjgjidvg adnc ziozmdib jpm kjmon rzmz qzmt bmzvogt mzypxzy,
viy wt ocz rvmzcjpndib vxo do dn vggjrzy oj wz ziozmzy di wjiy rdocjpo
kvthzio ja ypot. Di ocdn rvt xjgjidvg adnc cvn vxlpdmzy ocz hjijkjgt ja ocz
zskjmo omvyz di jpm hvmfzo viy dn ziozmdib oj njhz zsozio dioj ocz cjhz
xjinphkodji. Ocznz avxon rzmz vhjib ocjnz rcdxc dixmzvnzy ocz nzindwdgdot
ja jpm adncdib diozmzno vo ocz hjqzhzio di lpznodji. Ocznz xdmxphnovixzn
viy ocz dixdyzion vwjqz vggpyzy oj cvqz gzy hz oj ocdif ocz hjhzio
avqjmvwgz ajm v mzxjindyzmvodji ja ocz ziodmz npwezxo ja ocz adnczmdzn ji
ocz xjvnon ja ocz Wmdodnc Kmjqdixzn, rdoc v qdzr oj kgvxz oczh pkji v hjmz
gdwzmvg ajjodib ja mzxdkmjxvg kmdqdgzbz. V rdggdibiznn oj hzzo pn di njhz
vmmvibzhzio ja ocdn fdiy dn piyzmnojjy oj zsdno ji ocz kvmo ja Bmzvo
Wmdovdi, rdoc v yzndmz ji czm kvmo oj dixgpyz di jiz xjhkmzczindqz
nzoogzhzio vn rzgg ocdn npwezxo vn ocz xjhhzmxdvg diozmxjpmnz wzorzzi ocz
Pidozy Novozn viy ocz Wmdodnc Kmjqdixzn. D cvqz ocjpbco ocvo, rcvozqzm
vmmvibzhzion hvt wz hvyz ji ocznz orj npwezxon, do dn zskzydzio ocvo oczt
ncjpgy wz zhwmvxzy di nzkvmvoz xjiqziodjin. Ocz dggiznn viy yzvoc ja ocz
gvoz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz kmzqziozy ocz xjhhzixzhzio ja ocz xjiozhkgvozy
izbjodvodji. Kvdin cvqz wzzi ovfzi oj xjggzxo ocz diajmhvodji mzlpdmzy ajm
ocz yzovdgn ja npxc vi vmmvibzhzio. Ocz npwezxo dn vooziyzy rdoc
xjindyzmvwgz ydaadxpgot. Da do dn ajpiy kmvxodxvwgz oj xjhz oj vi vbmzzhzio
hpopvggt vxxzkovwgz oj ocz orj kvmodzn, xjiqziodjin hvt wz xjixgpyzy di ocz
xjpmnz ja ocz kmznzio rdiozm. Ocz xjiomjg ja Xjibmznn jqzm vgg ocz
kmjqdndjin ja npxc vi vmmvibzhzio vaazxodib ocz mzqzipz rdgg ja xjpmnz wz
mznzmqzy.

Ocz vaavdmn ja Xpwv ajmhzy v kmjhdizio ojkdx di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz.
Oczt mzhvdi di vi pizvnt xjiydodji, viy v azzgdib ja vgvmh viy dmmdovodji
ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Xpwvi vpocjmdodzn vkkzvmn oj zsdno. Ocdn azzgdib cvn
diozmazmzy rdoc ocz mzbpgvm xjhhzmxdvg diozmxjpmnz wzorzzi ocz Pidozy
Novozn viy ocz dngviy viy gzy oj njhz vxon ja rcdxc rz cvqz v adbco oj
xjhkgvdi. Wpo ocz Xvkovdi-Bzizmvg ja Xpwv dn xgjoczy rdoc ij kjrzm oj omzvo
rdoc ajmzdbi bjqzmihzion, ijm dn cz di vit yzbmzz piyzm ocz xjiomjg ja ocz
Nkvidnc hdidnozm vo Rvncdiboji. Vit xjhhpidxvodji rcdxc cz hvt cjgy rdoc vi
vbzio ja v ajmzdbi kjrzm dn diajmhvg viy hvoozm ja xjpmoznt. Visdjpn oj kpo
vi ziy oj ocz zsdnodib dixjiqzidzixzn (rcdxc nzzhzy oj mzno ji v
hdnxjixzkodji), D ydmzxozy ocz izrgt vkkjdiozy hdidnozm oj Hzsdxj oj qdndo
Cvqviv ji cdn rvt oj Qzmv Xmpu. Cz rvn mznkzxoapggt mzxzdqzy wt ocz
Xvkovdi-Bzizmvg, rcj xjiazmmzy rdoc cdh amzzgt ji ocz mzxzio jxxpmmzixzn,
wpo ij kzmhvizio vmmvibzhzio rvn zaazxozy.

Di ocz hzviodhz ocz mzapnvg ja ocz Xvkovdi-Bzizmvgoj vggjr kvnnzibzmn viy
ocz hvdg oj wz gviyzy di xzmovdi xvnzn, ajm v mzvnji rcdxc yjzn ijo
apmidnc, di ocz jkdidji ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio, zqzi v bjjy kmznphkodqz bmjpiy
ajm npxc kmjcdwdodji, cvn wzzi hvyz ocz npwezxo ja v nzmdjpn mzhjinomvixz
vo Hvymdy, viy D cvqz ij mzvnji oj yjpwo ocvo ypz mznkzxo rdgg wz kvdy wt
ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Czm Xvocjgdx Hveznot oj ocz mzkmznziovodjin rcdxc jpm
hdidnozm cvn wzzi dinompxozy oj hvfz ji ocz npwezxo.

Do dn wpo epnodxz oj ocz Xvkovdi-Bzizmvg oj vyy ocvo cdn xjiypxo ojrvmy ocz
nozvhzmn zhkgjtzy oj xvmmt ocz hvdgn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj Cvqviv cvn,
rdoc ocz zsxzkodjin vwjqz vggpyzy oj, wzzi hvmfzy rdoc fdiyiznn viy
gdwzmvgdot, viy diydxvozn ij bzizmvg kpmkjnz ja diozmazmdib rdoc ocz
xjhhzmxdvg xjmmznkjiyzixz viy diozmxjpmnz wzorzzi ocz dngviy viy ocdn
xjpiomt.

Zvmgt di ocz kmznzio tzvm jaadxdvg ijozn rzmz mzxzdqzy amjh ocz hdidnozmn
ja Amvixz viy Zibgviy diqdodib ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj
wzxjhz v kvmot rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy Amvixz oj v omdkvmodoz xjiqziodji, di
qdmopz ja rcdxc ocz ocmzz kjrzmn ncjpgy nzqzmvggt viy xjggzxodqzgt ydnxgvdh
ijr viy ajm ocz apopmz vgg dioziodji oj jwovdi kjnnznndji ja ocz dngviy ja
Xpwv, viy ncjpgy wdiy oczhnzgqzn oj ydnxjpiozivixz vgg voozhkon oj ocvo
zaazxo ji ocz kvmo ja vit kjrzm jm diydqdypvg rcvozqzm. Ocdn diqdovodji cvn
wzzi mznkzxoapggt yzxgdizy, ajm mzvnjin rcdxc do rjpgy jxxpkt ojj hpxc
nkvxz di ocdn xjhhpidxvodji oj novoz di yzovdg, wpo rcdxc gzy hz oj ocdif
ocvo ocz kmjkjnzy hzvnpmz rjpgy wz ja yjpwoapg xjinodopodjivgdot,
dhkjgdodx, viy pivqvdgdib. D cvqz, cjrzqzm, di xjhhji rdoc nzqzmvg ja ht
kmzyzxznnjmn, ydmzxozy ocz hdidnozmn ja Amvixz viy Zibgviy oj wz vnnpmzy
ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn ziozmovdi ij yzndbin vbvdino Xpwv, wpo ocvo, ji ocz
xjiomvmt, D ncjpgy mzbvmy don dixjmkjmvodji dioj ocz Pidji vo ocz kmznzio
odhz vn amvpbco rdoc nzmdjpn kzmdg.

Rzmz ocdn dngviy xjhkvmvodqzgt yznodopoz ja dicvwdovion jm jxxpkdzy wt v
fdiymzy mvxz, D ncjpgy mzbvmy do, da qjgpiovmdgt xzyzy wt Nkvdi, vn v hjno
yzndmvwgz vxlpdndodji. Wpo piyzm zsdnodib xdmxphnovixzn D ncjpgy gjjf pkji
don dixjmkjmvodji dioj jpm Pidji vn v qzmt cvuvmyjpn hzvnpmz. Do rjpgy
wmdib dioj ocz Xjiazyzmvxt v kjkpgvodji ja v ydaazmzio ivodjivg nojxf,
nkzvfdib v ydaazmzio gvibpvbz, viy ijo gdfzgt oj cvmhjiduz rdoc ocz joczm
hzhwzmn. Do rjpgy kmjwvwgt vaazxo di v kmzepydxdvg hviizm ocz diypnomdvg
diozmznon ja ocz Njpoc, viy do hdbco mzqdqz ocjnz xjiagdxon ja jkdidji
wzorzzi ocz ydaazmzio nzxodjin ja ocz xjpiomt rcdxc gvozgt ncjjf ocz Pidji
oj don xziozm, viy rcdxc cvqz wzzi nj cvkkdgt xjhkmjhdnzy.

Ocz mzezxodji wt ocz Hzsdxvi Xjibmznn ja ocz xjiqziodji rcdxc cvy wzzi
xjixgpyzy wzorzzi ocvo Mzkpwgdx viy ocz Pidozy Novozn ajm ocz kmjozxodji ja
v omvindo rvt vxmjnn ocz Dnochpn ja Ozcpviozkzx viy ja ocz diozmznon ja
ocjnz xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rcj cvy wzxjhz kmjkmdzojmn ja ocz
mdbcon rcdxc Hzsdxj cvy xjiazmmzy ji jiz ja czm jri xdoduzin di mzbvmy oj
ocvo omvindo cvn ocmjri v nzmdjpn jwnovxgz di ocz rvt ja ocz voovdihzio ja
v qzmt yzndmvwgz ivodjivg jwezxo. D vh nodgg rdggdib oj cjkz ocvo ocz
ydaazmzixzn ji ocz npwezxo rcdxc zsdno, jm hvt czmzvaozm vmdnz, wzorzzi ocz
Bjqzmihzion rdgg wz vhdxvwgt vyepnozy. Ocdn npwezxo, cjrzqzm, cvn vgmzvyt
zibvbzy ocz vooziodji ja ocz Nzivoz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy mzlpdmzn ij
apmoczm xjhhzio di ocdn xjhhpidxvodji.

Ocz nzoogzhzio ja ocz lpznodji mznkzxodib ocz kjmo ja Nvi Epvi yz Idxvmvbpv
viy ja ocz xjiomjqzmnt wzorzzi ocz Mzkpwgdxn ja Xjnov Mdxv viy Idxvmvbpv di
mzbvmy oj oczdm wjpiyvmdzn rvn xjindyzmzy diydnkzinvwgz oj ocz xjhhzixzhzio
ja ocz ncdk xvivg wzorzzi ocz orj jxzvin, rcdxc rvn ocz npwezxo ja ocz
xjiqziodji wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi ja ocz 19oc ja
Vkmdg, 1850. Vxxjmydibgt, v kmjkjndodji ajm ocz nvhz kpmkjnzn, vyymznnzy oj
ocz orj Bjqzmihzion di ocvo lpvmozm viy oj ocz Hjnlpdoj Diydvin, rvn vbmzzy
oj di Vkmdg gvno wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz viy ocz hdidnozm ja Czm
Wmdoviidx Hveznot. Wzndyzn ocz rdnc oj vdy di mzxjixdgdib ocz ydaazmzixzn
ja ocz orj Mzkpwgdxn, D zibvbzy di ocz izbjodvodji amjh v yzndmz oj kgvxz
ocz bmzvo rjmf ja v ncdk xvivg wzorzzi ocz orj jxzvin piyzm jiz
epmdnydxodji viy oj znovwgdnc ocz dhkjmovio kjmo ja Nvi Epvi yz Idxvmvbpv
piyzm ocz bjqzmihzio ja v xdqdgduzy kjrzm. Ocz kmjkjndodji di lpznodji rvn
vnnziozy oj wt Xjnon Mdxv viy ocz Hjnlpdoj Diydvin. Do cvn ijo kmjqzy
zlpvggt vxxzkovwgz oj Idxvmvbpv, wpo do dn oj wz cjkzy ocvo ocz apmoczm
izbjodvodjin ji ocz npwezxo rcdxc vmz di omvdi rdgg wz xvmmdzy ji di ocvo
nkdmdo ja xjixdgdvodji viy xjhkmjhdnz rcdxc jpbco vgrvtn oj kmzqvdg ji npxc
jxxvndjin, viy ocvo oczt rdgg gzvy oj v nvodnavxojmt mznpgo.

D cvqz ocz nvodnavxodji oj diajmh tjp ocvo ocz zszxpodqz bjqzmihzio ja
Qzizupzgv cvn vxfijrgzybzy njhz xgvdhn ja xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn
rcdxc cvqz ajm hvit tzvmn kvno wzzi pmbzy wt jpm xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn vo
Xvmvxvn. Do dn cjkzy ocvo ocz nvhz nzinz ja epnodxz rdgg vxopvoz ocz
Xjibmznn ja ocvo Mzkpwgdx di kmjqdydib ocz hzvin ajm oczdm kvthzio.

Ocz mzxzio mzqjgpodji di Wpzijn Vtmzn viy ocz Xjiazyzmvozy Novozn cvqdib
jkzizy ocz kmjnkzxo ja vi dhkmjqzy novoz ja ocdibn di ocvo lpvmozm, ocz
Bjqzmihzion ja Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy Amvixz yzozmhdizy oj izbjodvoz rdoc ocz
xcdza ja ocz izr xjiazyzmvxt ajm ocz amzz vxxznn ja oczdm xjhhzmxz oj ocz
zsozindqz xjpiomdzn rvozmzy wt ocz omdwpovmdzn ja ocz Gv Kgvov; viy oczt
bvqz v amdziygt ijodxz ja ocdn kpmkjnz oj ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocvo rz hdbco,
da rz ocjpbco kmjkzm, kpmnpz ocz nvhz xjpmnz. Di xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocdn
diqdovodji, jpm hdidnozm vo Mdj Evizdmj viy jpm xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn vo
Wpzijn Vtmzn cvqz wzzi apggt vpocjmduzy oj xjixgpyz omzvodzn rdoc ocz izrgt
jmbviduzy xjiazyzmvodji jm ocz Novozn xjhkjndib do. Ocz yzgvtn rcdxc cvqz
ovfzi kgvxz di ocz ajmhvodji ja ocz izr bjqzmihzio cvqz vn tzo kmzqziozy
ocz zszxpodji ja ocjnz dinompxodjin, wpo oczmz dn zqzmt mzvnji oj cjkz ocvo
ocznz qvno xjpiomdzn rdgg wz zqziopvggt jkzizy oj jpm xjhhzmxz.

V omzvot ja xjhhzmxz cvn wzzi xjixgpyzy wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocz
Jmdziovg Mzkpwgdx ja Pmpbpvt, rcdxc rdgg wz gvdy wzajmz ocz Nzivoz. Ncjpgy
ocdn xjiqziodji bj dioj jkzmvodji, do rdgg jkzi oj ocz xjhhzmxdvg
ziozmkmdnz ja jpm xdoduzin v xjpiomt ja bmzvo zsozio viy pinpmkvnnzy di
ivopmvg mznjpmxzn, wpo amjh rcdxc ajmzdbi ivodjin cvqz cdoczmoj wzzi vghjno
rcjggt zsxgpyzy.

Ocz xjmmznkjiyzixz ja ocz gvoz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz rdoc ocz Kzmpqdvi xcvmbz
y'vaavdmzn mzgvodqz oj ocz Gjwjn Dngviyn rvn xjhhpidxvozy oj Xjibmznn
ojrvmy ocz xgjnz ja ocz gvno nznndji. Ndixz ocvo odhz, ji apmoczm
diqznodbvodji ja ocz npwezxo, ocz yjpwon rcdxc cvy wzzi ziozmovdizy ja ocz
odogz ja Kzmp oj ocjnz dngviyn cvqz wzzi mzhjqzy, viy D cvqz yzzhzy do epno
ocvo ocz ozhkjmvmt rmjib rcdxc cvy wzzi pidioziodjivggt yjiz czm amjh rvio
ja diajmhvodji ncjpgy wz mzkvdmzy wt vi pimznzmqzy vxfijrgzybhzio ja czm
njqzmzdbiot.

D cvqz ocz nvodnavxodji oj diajmh tjp ocvo ocz xjpmnz kpmnpzy wt Kzmp cvn
wzzi xmzydovwgz oj ocz gdwzmvgdot ja czm Bjqzmihzio. Wzajmz do rvn fijri wt
czm ocvo czm odogz rjpgy wz vxfijrgzybzy vo Rvncdiboji, czm hdidnozm ja
ajmzdbi vaavdmn cvy vpocjmduzy jpm xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn vo Gdhv oj viijpixz
oj ocz Vhzmdxvi qznnzgn rcdxc cvy bjiz oj ocz Gjwjn ajm bpvij ocvo ocz
Kzmpqdvi Bjqzmihzio rvn rdggdib oj amzdbco oczh ji don jri vxxjpio. Ocdn
dioziodji cvn wzzi xvmmdzy dioj zaazxo wt ocz Kzmpqdvi hdidnozm czmz wt vi
vmmvibzhzio rcdxc dn wzgdzqzy oj wz vyqviovbzjpn oj ocz kvmodzn di
diozmzno.

Jpm nzoogzhzion ji ocz ncjmzn ja ocz Kvxdadx cvqz vgmzvyt bdqzi v bmzvo
zsozindji, viy di njhz mznkzxon v izr ydmzxodji, oj jpm xjhhzmxz di ocvo
jxzvi. V ydmzxo viy mvkdygt dixmzvndib diozmxjpmnz cvn nkmpib pk rdoc
zvnozmi Vndv. Ocz rvozmn ja ocz Ijmoczmi Kvxdadx, zqzi dioj ocz Vmxodx Nzv,
cvqz ja gvoz tzvmn wzzi amzlpziozy wt jpm rcvgzhzi. Ocz vkkgdxvodji ja
nozvh oj ocz bzizmvg kpmkjnzn ja ivqdbvodji dn wzxjhdib yvdgt hjmz xjhhji,
viy hvfzn do yzndmvwgz oj jwovdi apzg viy joczm izxznnvmt npkkgdzn vo
xjiqzidzio kjdion ji ocz mjpoz wzorzzi Vndv viy jpm Kvxdadx ncjmzn. Jpm
piajmopivoz xjpiomthzi rcj amjh odhz oj odhz npaazm ncdkrmzxf ji ocz xjvnon
ja ocz zvnozmi nzvn vmz ziodogzy oj kmjozxodji. Wzndyzn ocznz nkzxdadx
jwezxon, ocz bzizmvg kmjnkzmdot ja jpm Novozn ji ocz Kvxdadx mzlpdmzn ocvo
vi voozhko ncjpgy wz hvyz oj jkzi ocz jkkjndoz mzbdjin ja Vndv oj v
hpopvggt wzizadxdvg diozmxjpmnz. Do dn jwqdjpn ocvo ocdn voozhko xjpgy wz
hvyz wt ij kjrzm oj nj bmzvo vyqviovbz vn wt ocz Pidozy Novozn, rcjnz
xjinodopodjivg ntnozh zsxgpyzn zqzmt dyzv ja ydnovio xjgjidvg yzkziyzixdzn.
D cvqz vxxjmydibgt wzzi gzy oj jmyzm vi vkkmjkmdvoz ivqvg ajmxz oj Evkvi,
piyzm ocz xjhhviy ja v ydnxmzzo viy diozggdbzio jaadxzm ja ocz cdbczno mvif
fijri oj jpm nzmqdxz. Cz dn dinompxozy oj ziyzvqjm oj jwovdi amjh ocz
Bjqzmihzio ja ocvo xjpiomt njhz mzgvsvodji ja ocz dicjnkdovwgz viy
viodnjxdvg ntnozh rcdxc do cvn kpmnpzy ajm vwjpo orj xziopmdzn. Cz cvn wzzi
ydmzxozy kvmodxpgvmgt oj mzhjinomvoz di ocz nomjibzno gvibpvbz vbvdino ocz
xmpzg omzvohzio oj rcdxc jpm ncdkrmzxfzy hvmdizmn cvqz jaozi wzzi npwezxozy
viy oj dindno ocvo oczt ncvgg wz omzvozy rdoc cphvidot. Cz dn dinompxozy,
cjrzqzm, vo ocz nvhz odhz, oj bdqz ocvo Bjqzmihzio ocz vhkgzno vnnpmvixzn
ocvo ocz jwezxon ja ocz Pidozy Novozn vmz npxc, viy npxc jigt, vn D cvqz
diydxvozy, viy ocvo ocz zskzydodji dn amdziygt viy kzvxzapg.
Ijordocnoviydib ocz ezvgjpnt rdoc rcdxc ocz Bjqzmihzion ja zvnozmi Vndv
mzbvmy vgg jqzmopmzn amjh ajmzdbizmn, D vh ijo rdocjpo cjkzn ja v
wzizadxdvg mznpgo ja ocz zskzydodji. Ncjpgy do wz xmjrizy rdoc npxxznn, ocz
vyqviovbzn rdgg ijo wz xjiadizy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn, wpo, vn di ocz xvnz
ja Xcdiv, rdgg wz zlpvggt ziejtzy wt vgg ocz joczm hvmdodhz kjrzmn. D cvqz
hpxc nvodnavxodji di novodib ocvo di vgg ocz nozkn kmzkvmvojmt oj ocdn
zskzydodji ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn wzzi hvozmdvggt vdyzy wt
ocz bjjy jaadxzn ja ocz Fdib ja ocz Izoczmgviyn, ocz jigt Zpmjkzvi kjrzm
cvqdib vit xjhhzmxdvg mzgvodjin rdoc Evkvi.

Di kvnndib amjh ocdn npmqzt ja jpm ajmzdbi mzgvodjin, D diqdoz ocz
vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj ocz xjiydodji ja ocvo Yzkvmohzio ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
oj rcdxc ocdn wmvixc ja ocz kpwgdx wpndiznn dn diompnozy. Jpm diozmxjpmnz
rdoc ajmzdbi kjrzmn cvn ja gvoz tzvmn bmzvogt dixmzvnzy, wjoc di
xjinzlpzixz ja jpm jri bmjroc viy ocz diomjypxodji ja hvit izr novozn dioj
ocz avhdgt ja ivodjin. Di ocdn rvt ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz cvn wzxjhz
jqzmwpmyzizy. Do cvn wt ocz mzxzio znovwgdnchzio ja ocz Yzkvmohzio ja ocz
Diozmdjm wzzi mzgdzqzy ja njhz kjmodji ja ocz yjhznodx wpndiznn. Da ocz
mzndypz ja ocz wpndiznn ja ocvo fdiy--npxc vn ocz ydnomdwpodji ja
Xjibmznndjivg yjxphzion, ocz fzzkdib, kpwgdncdib, viy ydnomdwpodji ja ocz
gvrn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocz zszxpodji ja ocz xjktmdbco gvr, ocz npwezxo
ja mzkmdzqzn viy kvmyjin, viy njhz joczm npwezxon mzgvodib oj diozmdjm
vyhdidnomvodji--ncjpgy wz omvinazmmzy amjh ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz, do
rjpgy pilpznodjivwgt wz ajm ocz wzizado ja ocz kpwgdx nzmqdxz. D rjpgy vgnj
npbbzno ocvo ocz wpdgydib vkkmjkmdvozy oj ocz Novoz Yzkvmohzio dn ijo
admzkmjja; ocvo oczmz dn mzvnji oj ocdif oczmz vmz yzazxon di don
xjinompxodji, viy ocvo ocz vmxcdqzn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio di xcvmbz ja ocz
Yzkvmohzio, rdoc ocz kmzxdjpn xjggzxodjin ja ocz hvipnxmdko kvkzmn ja
Rvncdiboji, Ezaazmnji, Cvhdgoji, Hvydnji, viy Hjimjz, vmz zskjnzy oj
yznompxodji wt admz. V ndhdgvm mzhvmf hvt wz hvyz ja ocz wpdgydibn
vkkmjkmdvozy oj ocz Rvm viy Ivqt Yzkvmohzion.

Ocz xjiydodji ja ocz Omzvnpmt dn zscdwdozy di ocz viipvg mzkjmo amjh ocvo
Yzkvmohzio.

Ocz xvnc mzxzdkon dioj ocz Omzvnpmt ajm ocz adnxvg tzvm ziydib ocz 30oc
Epiz gvno, zsxgpndqz ja ompno apiyn, rzmz $49,728,386.89, viy ocz
zskziydopmzn ajm ocz nvhz kzmdjy, gdfzrdnz zsxgpndqz ja ompno apiyn, rzmz
$46,007,896.20, ja rcdxc $9,455,815.83 rvn ji vxxjpio ja ocz kmdixdkvg viy
diozmzno ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo, dixgpydib ocz gvno dinovgghzio ja ocz
diyzhidot oj Hzsdxj piyzm ocz omzvot ja Bpvyvgpkz Cdyvgbj, gzvqdib v
wvgvixz ja $14,632,136.37 di ocz Omzvnpmt ji ocz 1no yvt ja Epgt gvno.
Ndixz ocdn gvoozm kzmdjy apmoczm kpmxcvnzn ja ocz kmdixdkvg ja ocz kpwgdx
yzwo cvqz wzzi hvyz oj ocz zsozio ja $2,456,547.49, viy ocz npmkgpn di ocz
Omzvnpmt rdgg xjiodipz oj wz vkkgdzy oj ocvo jwezxo rczizqzm ocz nojxf xvi
wz kmjxpmzy rdocdi ocz gdhdon vn oj kmdxz vpocjmduzy wt gvr.

Ocz qvgpz ja ajmzdbi hzmxcviydnz dhkjmozy ypmdib ocz gvno adnxvg tzvm rvn
$207,240,101, viy ocz qvgpz ja yjhznodx kmjypxodjin zskjmozy rvn
$149,861,911, wzndyzn $17,204,026 ja ajmzdbi hzmxcviydnz zskjmozy, hvfdib
ocz vbbmzbvoz ja ocz ziodmz zskjmon $167,065,937. Zsxgpndqz ja ocz vwjqz,
oczmz rvn zskjmozy $42,507,285 di nkzxdz, viy dhkjmozy amjh ajmzdbi kjmon
$5,262,643.

Di ht admno viipvg hznnvbz oj Xjibmznn D xvggzy tjpm vooziodji oj rcvo
nzzhzy oj hz njhz yzazxon di ocz kmznzio ovmdaa, viy mzxjhhziyzy npxc
hjydadxvodjin vn di ht epybhzio rzmz wzno vyvkozy oj mzhzyt don zqdgn viy
kmjhjoz ocz kmjnkzmdot ja ocz xjpiomt. Ijocdib cvn ndixz jxxpmmzy oj xcvibz
ht qdzrn ji ocdn dhkjmovio lpznodji.

Rdocjpo mzkzvodib ocz vmbphzion xjiovdizy di ht ajmhzm hznnvbz di avqjm ja
ydnxmdhdivodib kmjozxodqz ypodzn, D yzzh do ht ypot oj xvgg tjpm vooziodji
oj jiz jm orj joczm xjindyzmvodjin vaazxodib ocdn npwezxo. Ocz admno dn ocz
zaazxo ja gvmbz dhkjmovodjin ja ajmzdbi bjjyn pkji jpm xpmmzixt. Hjno ja
ocz bjgy ja Xvgdajmidv, vn avno vn do dn xjdizy, adiyn don rvt ydmzxogt oj
Zpmjkz di kvthzio ajm bjjyn kpmxcvnzy. Di ocz nzxjiy kgvxz, vn jpm
hvipavxopmdib znovwgdnchzion vmz wmjfzi yjri wt xjhkzododji rdoc
ajmzdbizmn, ocz xvkdovg diqznozy di oczh dn gjno, ocjpnviyn ja cjizno viy
diypnomdjpn xdoduzin vmz ocmjri jpo ja zhkgjthzio, viy ocz avmhzm, oj ocvo
zsozio, dn yzkmdqzy ja v cjhz hvmfzo ajm ocz nvgz ja cdn npmkgpn kmjypxz.
Di ocz ocdmy kgvxz, ocz yznompxodji ja jpm hvipavxopmzn gzvqzn ocz
ajmzdbizm rdocjpo xjhkzododji di jpm hvmfzo, viy cz xjinzlpziogt mvdnzn ocz
kmdxz ja ocz vmodxgz nzio czmz ajm nvgz, vn dn ijr nzzi di ocz dixmzvnzy
xjno ja dmji dhkjmozy amjh Zibgviy. Ocz kmjnkzmdot viy rzvgoc ja zqzmt
ivodji hpno yzkziy pkji don kmjypxodqz diypnomt. Ocz avmhzm dn nodhpgvozy
oj zszmodji wt adiydib v mzvyt hvmfzo ajm cdn npmkgpn kmjypxon, viy
wzizadozy wt wzdib vwgz oj zsxcvibz oczh rdocjpo gjnn ja odhz jm zskzinz ja
omvinkjmovodji ajm ocz hvipavxopmzn rcdxc cdn xjhajmo jm xjiqzidzixz
mzlpdmzn. Ocdn dn vgrvtn yjiz oj ocz wzno vyqviovbz rczmz v kjmodji ja ocz
xjhhpidot di rcdxc cz gdqzn dn zibvbzy di joczm kpmnpdon. Wpo hjno
hvipavxopmzn mzlpdmz vi vhjpio ja xvkdovg viy v kmvxodxvg nfdgg rcdxc xvi
ijo wz xjhhviyzy pigznn oczt wz kmjozxozy ajm v odhz amjh mpdijpn
xjhkzododji amjh vwmjvy. Czixz ocz izxznndot ja gvtdib ocjnz ypodzn pkji
dhkjmozy bjjyn rcdxc ocz Xjinodopodji vpocjmduzn ajm mzqzipz di npxc v
hviizm vn oj kmjozxo viy zixjpmvbz ocz gvwjm ja jpm jri xdoduzin. Ypodzn,
cjrzqzm, ncjpgy ijo wz adszy vo v mvoz nj cdbc vn oj zsxgpyz ocz ajmzdbi
vmodxgz, wpo ncjpgy wz nj bmvypvozy vn oj zivwgz ocz yjhznodx hvipavxopmzm
avdmgt oj xjhkzoz rdoc ocz ajmzdbizm di jpm jri hvmfzon, viy wt ocdn
xjhkzododji oj mzypxz ocz kmdxz ja ocz hvipavxopmzy vmodxgz oj ocz xjinphzm
oj ocz gjrzno mvoz vo rcdxc do xvi wz kmjypxzy. Ocdn kjgdxt rjpgy kgvxz ocz
hzxcvidx wt ocz ndyz ja ocz avmhzm, xmzvoz v hpopvg diozmxcvibz ja oczdm
mznkzxodqz xjhhjydodzn, viy ocpn nodhpgvoz ocz diypnomt ja ocz rcjgz
xjpiomt viy mziyzm pn diyzkziyzio ja ajmzdbi ivodjin ajm ocz npkkgdzn
mzlpdmzy wt ocz cvwdon jm izxznndodzn ja ocz kzjkgz.

Vijoczm lpznodji, rcjggt diyzkziyzio ja kmjozxodji, kmznzion donzga, viy
ocvo dn, rczoczm ocz ypodzn gzqdzy ncjpgy wz pkji ocz qvgpz ja ocz vmodxgz
vo ocz kgvxz ja ncdkhzio, jm, rczmz do dn kmvxodxvwgz, v nkzxdadx ypot,
bmvypvozy vxxjmydib oj lpviodot, vn vnxzmovdizy wt rzdbco jm hzvnpmz. Vgg
jpm ypodzn vmz vo kmznzio vy qvgjmzh. V xzmovdi kzmxziovbz dn gzqdzy ji ocz
kmdxz ja ocz bjjyn vo ocz kjmo ja ncdkhzio di v ajmzdbi xjpiomt. Hjno
xjhhzmxdvg ivodjin cvqz ajpiy do diydnkzinvwgz, ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja
kmzqziodib amvpy viy kzmepmt, oj hvfz ocz ypodzn nkzxdadx rczizqzm ocz
vmodxgz dn ja npxc v pidajmh qvgpz di rzdbco jm hzvnpmz vn oj epnodat npxc
v ypot. Gzbdngvodji ncjpgy izqzm zixjpmvbz ydncjiznot jm xmdhz. Do dn
dhkjnndwgz ocvo ocz mzqzipz jaadxzmn vo ocz kjmo rczmz ocz bjjyn vmz
ziozmzy viy ocz ypodzn kvdy ncjpgy fijr rdoc xzmovdiot rcvo oczt xjno di
ocz ajmzdbi xjpiomt. Tzo ocz gvr mzlpdmzn ocvo oczt ncjpgy gzqt ocz ypot
vxxjmydib oj npxc xjno. Oczt vmz oczmzajmz xjhkzggzy oj mznjmo oj qzmt
pinvodnavxojmt zqdyzixz oj vnxzmovdi rcvo ocvo xjno rvn. Oczt ovfz ocz
diqjdxz ja ocz dhkjmozm, vooznozy wt cdn jvoc, vn ocz wzno zqdyzixz ja
rcdxc ocz ivopmz ja ocz xvnz vyhdon. Wpo zqzmtjiz hpno nzz ocvo ocz diqjdxz
hvt wz avwmdxvozy viy ocz jvoc wt rcdxc do dn npkkjmozy avgnz, wt mzvnji ja
rcdxc ocz ydncjizno dhkjmozm kvtn v kvmo jigt ja ocz ypodzn rcdxc vmz kvdy
wt ocz cjizno jiz, viy ocpn diydmzxogt mzxzdqzn amjh ocz Omzvnpmt ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn v mzrvmy ajm cdn amvpy viy kzmepmt. Ocz mzkjmon ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt czmzojajmz hvyz ji ocdn npwezxo ncjr xjixgpndqzgt
ocvo ocznz amvpyn cvqz wzzi kmvxodxzy oj v bmzvo zsozio. Ocz oziyzixt dn oj
yznomjt ocvo cdbc hjmvg xcvmvxozm ajm rcdxc jpm hzmxcvion cvqz gjib wzzi
ydnodibpdnczy, oj yzamvpy ocz Bjqzmihzio ja don mzqzipz, oj wmzvf yjri ocz
cjizno dhkjmozm wt v ydncjizno xjhkzododji, viy, adivggt, oj omvinazm ocz
wpndiznn ja dhkjmovodji oj ajmzdbi viy dmmznkjindwgz vbzion, oj ocz bmzvo
yzomdhzio ja jpm jri xdoduzin. D oczmzajmz vbvdi hjno zvmiznogt mzxjhhziy
ocz vyjkodji ja nkzxdadx ypodzn rczmzqzm do dn kmvxodxvwgz, jm v cjhz
qvgpvodji, oj kmzqzio ocznz amvpyn.

D rjpgy vgnj vbvdi xvgg tjpm vooziodji oj ocz avxo ocvo ocz kmznzio ovmdaa
di njhz xvnzn dhkjnzn v cdbczm ypot pkji ocz mvr hvozmdvg dhkjmozy ocvi
pkji ocz vmodxgz hvipavxopmzy amjh do, ocz xjinzlpzixz ja rcdxc dn ocvo ocz
ypot jkzmvozn oj ocz zixjpmvbzhzio ja ocz ajmzdbizm viy ocz ydnxjpmvbzhzio
ja jpm jri xdoduzin.

Ajm apgg viy yzovdgzy diajmhvodji di mzbvmy oj ocz bzizmvg xjiydodji ja jpm
Diydvi vaavdmn, D mznkzxoapggt mzazm tjp oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja
ocz Diozmdjm viy ocz vxxjhkvitdib yjxphzion.

Ocz Nzivoz ijo cvqdib ocjpbco kmjkzm oj mvodat ocz omzvodzn rcdxc cvqz wzzi
izbjodvozy rdoc ocz omdwzn ja Diydvin di Xvgdajmidv viy Jmzbji, jpm
mzgvodjin rdoc oczh cvqz wzzi gzao di v qzmt pinvodnavxojmt xjiydodji.

Di joczm kvmon ja jpm ozmmdojmt kvmodxpgvm ydnomdxon ja xjpiomt cvqz wzzi
nzo vkvmo ajm ocz zsxgpndqz jxxpkvodji ja ocz Diydvin, viy oczdm mdbco oj
ocz gviyn rdocdi ocjnz gdhdon cvn wzzi vxfijrgzybzy viy mznkzxozy. Wpo di
Xvgdajmidv viy Jmzbji oczmz cvn wzzi ij mzxjbidodji wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ja
ocz zsxgpndqz mdbco ja ocz Diydvin oj vit kvmo ja ocz xjpiomt. Oczt vmz
oczmzajmz hzmz ozivion vo npaazmvixz, viy gdvwgz oj wz ymdqzi amjh kgvxz oj
kgvxz vo ocz kgzvnpmz ja ocz rcdozn.

Ocz omzvodzn rcdxc cvqz wzzi mzezxozy kmjkjnzy oj mzhzyt ocdn zqdg wt
vggjoodib oj ocz ydaazmzio omdwzn ydnomdxon ja xjpiomt npdovwgz oj oczdm
cvwdon ja gdaz viy npaadxdzio ajm oczdm npkkjmo. Ocdn kmjqdndji, hjmz ocvi
vit joczm, do dn wzgdzqzy, gzy oj oczdm mzezxodji; viy vn ij npwnodopoz ajm
do cvn wzzi vyjkozy wt Xjibmznn, do cvn ijo wzzi yzzhzy vyqdnvwgz oj
voozhko oj ziozm dioj izr omzvodzn ja v kzmhvizio xcvmvxozm, vgocjpbc ij
zaajmo cvn wzzi nkvmzy wt ozhkjmvmt vmmvibzhzion oj kmznzmqz amdziygt
mzgvodjin rdoc oczh.

Da do wz ocz yzndmz ja Xjibmznn oj mzhjqz oczh amjh ocz xjpiomt vgojbzoczm,
jm oj vnndbi oj oczh kvmodxpgvm ydnomdxon hjmz mzhjoz amjh ocz nzoogzhzion
ja ocz rcdozn, do rdgg wz kmjkzm oj nzo vkvmo wt gvr ocz ozmmdojmt rcdxc
oczt vmz oj jxxpkt viy oj kmjqdyz ocz hzvin izxznnvmt ajm mzhjqdib oczh oj
do. Epnodxz vgdfz oj jpm jri xdoduzin viy oj ocz Diydvin mzlpdmzn ocz
kmjhko vxodji ja Xjibmznn ji ocdn npwezxo. Ocz vhziyhzion kmjkjnzy wt ocz
Nzivoz oj ocz omzvodzn rcdxc rzmz izbjodvozy rdoc ocz Ndjps Diydvin ja
Hdiiznjov cvqz wzzi npwhdoozy oj ocz omdwzn rcj rzmz kvmodzn oj oczh, viy
cvqz mzxzdqzy oczdm vnnzio. V gvmbz omvxo ja qvgpvwgz ozmmdojmt cvn ocpn
wzzi jkzizy ajm nzoogzhzio viy xpgodqvodji, viy vgg yvibzm ja xjggdndji
rdoc ocznz kjrzmapg viy rvmgdfz wviyn cvn wzzi cvkkdgt mzhjqzy.

Ocz mzhjqvg ja ocz mzhivio ja ocz omdwz ja Nzhdijgz Diydvin amjh Agjmdyv
cvn gjib wzzi v xczmdnczy jwezxo ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, viy do dn jiz oj rcdxc
ht vooziodji cvn wzzi nozvydgt ydmzxozy. Vyhjidnczy wt kvno zskzmdzixz ja
ocz ydaadxpgot viy xjno ja ocz voozhko oj mzhjqz oczh wt hdgdovmt ajmxz,
mznjmo cvn wzzi cvy oj xjixdgdvojmt hzvnpmzn. Wt ocz diqdovodji ja ocz
Xjhhdnndjizm ja Diydvi Vaavdmn, nzqzmvg ja ocz kmdixdkvg xcdzan mzxziogt
qdndozy Rvncdiboji, viy rcdgno czmz vxfijrgzybzy di rmdodib ocz jwgdbvodji
ja oczdm omdwz oj mzhjqz rdoc ocz gzvno kjnndwgz yzgvt. Gvoz vyqdxzn amjh
ocz nkzxdvg vbzio ja ocz Bjqzmihzio mzkmznzio ocvo oczt vyczmz oj oczdm
kmjhdnz, viy ocvo v xjpixdg ja oczdm kzjkgz cvn wzzi xvggzy oj hvfz oczdm
kmzgdhdivmt vmmvibzhzion. V bzizmvg zhdbmvodji hvt oczmzajmz wz xjiadyziogt
zskzxozy vo vi zvmgt yvt.

Ocz mzkjmo amjh ocz Bzizmvg Gviy Jaadxz ncjrn dixmzvnzy vxodqdot di don
jkzmvodjin. Ocz npmqzt ja ocz ijmoczmi wjpiyvmt ja Djrv cvn wzzi xjhkgzozy
rdoc pizsvhkgzy ydnkvoxc. Rdocdi ocz gvno tzvm 9,522,953 vxmzn ja kpwgdx
gviy cvqz wzzi npmqztzy viy 8,032,463 vxmzn wmjpbco dioj hvmfzo.

Vxmzn Di ocz gvno adnxvg tzvm oczmz rzmz njgy 1,553,071 Gjxvozy rdoc
wjpiot-gviy rvmmvion 3,201,314 Gjxvozy rdoc joczm xzmodadxvozn 115,682
Hvfdib v ojovg ja 4,870,067

Di vyydodji oczmz rzmz--Mzkjmozy piyzm nrvhk-gviy bmvion 5,219,188 Ajm
diozmivg dhkmjqzhzion, mvdgmjvyn, zox 3,025,920 Hvfdib vi vbbmzbvoz ja
13,115,175 Wzdib vi dixmzvnz ja ocz vhjpio njgy viy gjxvozy piyzm gviy
rvmmvion ja 569,220 vxmzn jqzm ocz kmzqdjpn tzvm. Ocz rcjgz vhjpio ocpn
njgy, gjxvozy piyzm gviy rvmmvion, mzkjmozy piyzm nrvhk-gviy bmvion, viy
nzgzxozy ajm diozmivg dhkmjqzhzion zsxzzyn ocvo ja ocz kmzqdjpn tzvm wt
3,342,372 vxmzn; viy ocz nvgzn rjpgy rdocjpo yjpwo cvqz wzzi hpxc gvmbzm
wpo ajm ocz zsozindqz mznzmqvodjin ajm mvdgmjvyn di Hdnnjpmd, Hdnndnndkkd,
viy Vgvwvhv.

Vxmzn Ajm ocz lpvmozm ziydib 30oc Nzkozhwzm, 1852, oczmz rzmz njgy 243,255
Gjxvozy rdoc wjpiot-gviy rvmmvion 1,387,116 Gjxvozy rdoc joczm xzmodadxvozn
15,649 Mzkjmozy piyzm nrvhk-gviy bmvion 2,485,233 Hvfdib vi vbbmzbvoz ajm
ocz lpvmozm ja 4,131,253

Hpxc ocz gvmbzm kjmodji ja ocz gvwjm ja vmmvibdib viy xgvnndatdib ocz
mzopmin ja ocz gvno xzinpn cvn wzzi adidnczy, viy do rdgg ijr yzqjgqz pkji
Xjibmznn oj hvfz ocz izxznnvmt kmjqdndji ajm ocz kpwgdxvodji ja ocz mznpgon
di npxc ajmh vn ncvgg wz yzzhzy wzno. Ocz vkkjmodjihzio ja mzkmznziovodji
ji ocz wvndn ja ocz izr xzinpn cvn wzzi hvyz wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz
Diozmdjm di xjiajmhdot rdoc ocz kmjqdndjin ja gvr mzgvodib oj ocvo npwezxo,
viy ocz mzxzio zgzxodjin cvqz wzzi hvyz di vxxjmyvixz rdoc do.

D xjhhziy oj tjpm avqjmvwgz mzbvmy ocz npbbznodji xjiovdizy di ocz mzkjmo
ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Diozmdjm ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz wt gvr ajm ocz
kpwgdxvodji viy ydnomdwpodji, kzmdjydxvggt, ja vi vivgtodxvg ydbzno ja vgg
ocz kvozion rcdxc cvqz wzzi jm hvt czmzvaozm wz bmviozy ajm pnzapg
diqziodjin viy ydnxjqzmdzn, rdoc npxc yznxmdkodjin viy dggpnomvodjin vn hvt
wz izxznnvmt oj kmznzio vi diozggdbdwgz qdzr ja oczdm ivopmz viy jkzmvodji.
Ocz xjno ja npxc kpwgdxvodji xjpgy zvndgt wz yzamvtzy jpo ja ocz kvozio
apiy, viy D vh kzmnpvyzy ocvo do xjpgy wz vkkgdzy oj ij jwezxo hjmz
vxxzkovwgz oj diqziojmn viy wzizadxdvg oj ocz kpwgdx vo gvmbz.

Vi vkkmjkmdvodji ja $100,000 cvqdib wzzi hvyz vo ocz gvno nznndji ajm ocz
kpmxcvnz ja v npdovwgz ndoz viy ajm ocz zmzxodji, apmidncdib, viy adoodib
pk ja vi vntgph ajm ocz dinviz ja ocz Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv viy ja ocz Vmht
viy Ivqt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocz kmjkzm hzvnpmzn cvqz wzzi vyjkozy oj
xvmmt ocdn wzizadxzio kpmkjnz dioj zaazxo.

Wt ocz gvozno vyqdxzn amjh ocz Hzsdxvi wjpiyvmt xjhhdnndji do vkkzvmn ocvo
ocz npmqzt ja ocz mdqzm Bdgv amjh don xjiodizixz rdoc ocz Xjgjmvyj oj don
npkkjnzy diozmnzxodji rdoc ocz rznozmi gdiz ja Izr Hzsdxj cvn wzzi
xjhkgzozy. Ocz npmqzt ja ocz Mdj Bmviyz cvn vgnj wzzi adidnczy amjh ocz
kjdio vbmzzy ji wt ocz xjhhdnndjizmn vn "ocz kjdio rczmz do nomdfzn ocz
njpoczmi wjpiyvmt ja Izr Hzsdxj" oj v kjdio 135 hdgzn wzgjr Zvbgz Kvnn,
rcdxc dn vwjpo orj-ocdmyn ja ocz ydnovixz vgjib ocz xjpmnz ja ocz mdqzm oj
don hjpoc.

Ocz vkkmjkmdvodji rcdxc rvn hvyz vo ocz gvno nznndji ja Xjibmznn ajm ocz
xjiodipvodji ja ocz npmqzt dn npwezxo oj ocz ajggjrdib kmjqdnj: Kmjqdyzy,
Ocvo ij kvmo ja ocdn vkkmjkmdvodji ncvgg wz pnzy jm zskziyzy piodg do ncvgg
wz hvyz nvodnavxojmdgt oj vkkzvm oj ocz Kmzndyzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ocvo
ocz njpoczmi wjpiyvmt ja Izr Hzsdxj dn ijo znovwgdnczy wt ocz xjhhdnndjizm
viy npmqztjm ja ocz Pidozy Novozn avmoczm ijmoc ja ocz ojri xvggzy "Kvnj"
ocvi ocz nvhz dn gvdy yjri di Ydnopmizgg'n hvk, rcdxc dn vyyzy oj ocz
omzvot.

Ht vooziodji rvn ymvri oj ocdn npwezxo wt v mzkjmo amjh ocz Yzkvmohzio ja
ocz Diozmdjm, rcdxc mzqdzrzy vgg ocz avxon ja ocz xvnz viy npwhdoozy ajm ht
yzxdndji ocz lpznodji rczoczm piyzm zsdnodib xdmxphnovixzn vit kvmo ja ocz
vkkmjkmdvodji xjpgy wz gvrapggt pnzy jm zskziyzy ajm ocz apmoczm
kmjnzxpodji ja ocz rjmf. Vaozm v xvmzapg xjindyzmvodji ja ocz npwezxo D
xvhz oj ocz xjixgpndji ocvo do xjpgy ijo, viy nj diajmhzy ocz czvy ja ocvo
Yzkvmohzio. Jmyzmn rzmz dhhzydvozgt dnnpzy wt cdh oj ocz xjhhdnndjizm viy
npmqztjm oj hvfz ij apmoczm mzlpdndodjin ji ocz Yzkvmohzio, vn oczt xjpgy
ijo wz kvdy, viy oj ydnxjiodipz vgg jkzmvodjin ji ocz njpoczmi gdiz ja Izr
Hzsdxj. Wpo vn ocz Yzkvmohzio cvy ij zsvxo diajmhvodji vn oj ocz vhjpio ja
kmjqdndjin viy hjizt rcdxc mzhvdizy pizskziyzy di ocz cviyn ja ocz
xjhhdnndjizm viy npmqztjm, do rvn gzao ydnxmzodjivmt rdoc oczh oj xjiodipz
ocz npmqzt yjri ocz Mdj Bmviyz vn avm vn ocz hzvin vo oczdm ydnkjnvg rjpgy
zivwgz oczh jm vo jixz oj ydnwviy ocz xjhhdnndji. V nkzxdvg hznnzibzm cvn
ndixz vmmdqzy amjh ocz jaadxzm di xcvmbz ja ocz npmqzt ji ocz mdqzm rdoc
diajmhvodji ocvo ocz apiyn npwezxo oj cdn xjiomjg rzmz zscvpnozy viy ocvo
ocz jaadxzmn viy joczmn zhkgjtzy di ocz nzmqdxz rzmz yznodopoz vgdfz ja ocz
hzvin ja kmjnzxpodib ocz rjmf viy ja mzopmidib oj oczdm cjhzn.

Ocz jwezxo ja ocz kmjqdnj rvn yjpwogznn oj vmmzno ocz npmqzt ja ocz
njpoczmi viy rznozmi gdizn ja Izr Hzsdxj, di mzbvmy oj rcdxc ydaazmzio
jkdidjin cvqz wzzi zskmznnzy; ajm do dn cvmygt oj wz npkkjnzy ocvo oczmz
xjpgy wz vit jwezxodji oj ocvo kvmo ja ocz gdiz rcdxc zsoziyn vgjib ocz
xcviizg ja ocz Mdj Bmviyz. Wpo ocz ozmhn ja ocz gvr vmz nj wmjvy vn oj
ajmwdy ocz pnz ja vit kvmo ja ocz hjizt ajm ocz kmjnzxpodji ja ocz rjmf, jm
zqzi ajm ocz kvthzio oj ocz jaadxzmn viy vbzion ja ocz vmmzvmvbzn ja kvt
rcdxc vmz epnogt ypz oj oczh.

D zvmiznogt diqdoz tjpm kmjhko vooziodji oj ocdn npwezxo, viy mzxjhhziy v
hjydadxvodji ja ocz ozmhn ja ocz kmjqdnj, nj vn oj zivwgz ocz Yzkvmohzio oj
pnz vn hpxc ja ocz vkkmjkmdvodji vn rdgg wz izxznnvmt oj ydnxcvmbz ocz
zsdnodib jwgdbvodjin ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy oj xjhkgzoz ocz npmqzt ja ocz
Mdj Bmviyz oj don hjpoc.

Do rdgg vgnj wz kmjkzm oj hvfz apmoczm kmjqdndji wt gvr ajm ocz apgadgghzio
ja jpm omzvot rdoc Hzsdxj ajm mpiidib viy hvmfdib ocz mzndypz ja ocz
wjpiyvmt gdiz wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn.

Kzmhdo hz oj diqdoz tjpm kvmodxpgvm vooziodji oj ocz diozmznon ja ocz
Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv, rcdxc vmz xjiadyzy wt ocz Xjinodopodji oj tjpm
kzxpgdvm xvmz.

Vhjib ocz hzvnpmzn rcdxc nzzh oj hz ja ocz bmzvozno dhkjmovixz oj don
kmjnkzmdot vmz ocz diomjypxodji ja v xjkdjpn npkkgt ja rvozm dioj ocz xdot
ja Rvncdiboji viy ocz xjinompxodji ja npdovwgz wmdybzn vxmjnn ocz Kjojhvx
oj mzkgvxz ocjnz rcdxc rzmz yznomjtzy wt cdbc rvozm di ocz zvmgt kvmo ja
ocz kmznzio tzvm.

Vo ocz gvno nznndji ja Xjibmznn vi vkkmjkmdvodji rvn hvyz oj yzamvt ocz
xjno ja ocz npmqztn izxznnvmt ajm yzozmhdidib ocz wzno hzvin ja vaajmydib
vi piavdgdib npkkgt ja bjjy viy rcjgznjhz rvozm. Njhz kmjbmznn cvn wzzi
hvyz di ocz npmqzt, viy vn njji vn do dn xjhkgzozy ocz mznpgo rdgg wz gvdy
wzajmz tjp.

Apmoczm vkkmjkmdvodjin rdgg vgnj wz izxznnvmt ajm bmvydib viy kvqdib ocz
nomzzon viy vqzipzn viy dixgjndib viy zhwzggdncdib ocz kpwgdx bmjpiyn
rdocdi ocz xdot ja Rvncdiboji.

D xjhhziy vgg ocznz jwezxon, ojbzoczm rdoc ocz xcvmdovwgz dinodopodjin ja
ocz Ydnomdxo, oj tjpm avqjmvwgz mzbvmy. Zqzmt zaajmo cvn wzzi hvyz oj
kmjozxo jpm amjiodzm viy ocvo ja ocz vyejdidib Hzsdxvi Novozn amjh ocz
dixpmndjin ja ocz Diydvi omdwzn. Ja vwjpo 11,000 hzi ja rcdxc ocz Vmht dn
xjhkjnzy, izvmgt 8,000 vmz zhkgjtzy di ocz yzazinz ja ocz izrgt vxlpdmzy
ozmmdojmt (dixgpydib Ozsvn) viy ja zhdbmvion kmjxzzydib oczmzoj. D vh
bmvodadzy oj nvt ocvo ocznz zaajmon cvqz wzzi pipnpvggt npxxznnapg. Rdoc
ocz zsxzkodji ja njhz kvmodvg jpowmzvfn di Xvgdajmidv viy Jmzbji viy
jxxvndjivg yzkmzyvodjin ji v kjmodji ja ocz Mdj Bmviyz, jrdib, do dn
wzgdzqzy, oj ocz ydnopmwzy novoz ja ocvo wjmyzm mzbdji, ocz dimjvyn ja ocz
Diydvin cvqz wzzi zaazxopvggt mznomvdizy.

Zskzmdzixz cvn ncjri, cjrzqzm, ocvo rczizqzm ocz orj mvxzn vmz wmjpbco dioj
xjiovxo xjggdndjin rdgg dizqdovwgt jxxpm. Oj kmzqzio ocznz xjggdndjin ocz
Pidozy Novozn cvqz bzizmvggt nzo vkvmo kjmodjin ja oczdm ozmmdojmt ajm ocz
zsxgpndqz jxxpkvodji ja ocz Diydvi omdwzn. V ydaadxpgot jxxpmn, cjrzqzm, di
ocz vkkgdxvodji ja ocdn kjgdxt oj Ozsvn. Wt ocz ozmhn ja ocz xjhkvxo wt
rcdxc ocvo Novoz rvn vyhdoozy dioj ocz Pidji ncz mzovdizy ocz jrizmncdk ja
vgg ocz qvxvio gviyn rdocdi czm gdhdon. Ocz bjqzmihzio ja ocvo Novoz, do dn
piyzmnojjy, cvn vnndbizy ij kjmodji ja czm ozmmdojmt oj ocz Diydvin, wpo vn
avno vn czm nzoogzhzion vyqvixz gvtn do jaa dioj xjpiodzn viy kmjxzzyn oj
npmqzt viy nzgg do. Ocdn kjgdxt hvidaznogt oziyn ijo jigt oj vgvmh viy
dmmdovoz ocz Diydvin, wpo oj xjhkzg oczh oj mznjmo oj kgpiyzm ajm
npwndnozixz. Do vgnj yzkmdqzn ocdn Bjqzmihzio ja ocvo diagpzixz viy xjiomjg
jqzm oczh rdocjpo rcdxc ij ypmvwgz kzvxz xvi zqzm zsdno wzorzzi oczh viy
ocz rcdozn. D ompno, oczmzajmz, ocvo v ypz mzbvmy ajm czm jri diozmznon,
vkvmo amjh xjindyzmvodjin ja cphvidot viy epnodxz, rdgg diypxz ocvo Novoz
oj vnndbi v nhvgg kjmodji ja czm qvno yjhvdi ajm ocz kmjqdndjivg jxxpkvixt
ja ocz nhvgg mzhivion ja omdwzn rdocdi czm wjmyzmn, npwezxo, ja xjpmnz, oj
czm jrizmncdk viy zqziopvg epmdnydxodji. Da ncz ncjpgy avdg oj yj ocdn, ocz
apgadgghzio ja jpm omzvot nodkpgvodjin rdoc Hzsdxj viy jpm ypot oj ocz
Diydvin oczhnzgqzn rdgg, do dn azvmzy, wzxjhz v npwezxo ja nzmdjpn
zhwvmmvnnhzio oj ocz Bjqzmihzio. Do dn cjkzy, cjrzqzm, ocvo v odhzgt viy
epno kmjqdndji wt Ozsvn hvt vqzmo ocdn zqdg.

Ij vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm ajmodadxvodjin rzmz hvyz vo ocz orj gvno nznndjin ja
Xjibmznn. Ocz xvpnz ja ocdn jhdnndji dn kmjwvwgt oj wz ajpiy di v bmjrdib
wzgdza ocvo ocz ntnozh ja ajmodadxvodjin vyjkozy di 1816, viy czmzojajmz
vxozy ji, mzlpdmzn mzqdndji.

Ocz npwezxo xzmovdigt yznzmqzn apgg viy xvmzapg diqznodbvodji, wpo do
ncjpgy ijo wz yzgvtzy gjibzm ocvi xvi wz vqjdyzy. Di ocz hzviodhz oczmz vmz
xzmovdi rjmfn rcdxc cvqz wzzi xjhhzixzy, njhz ja oczh izvmgt xjhkgzozy,
yzndbizy oj kmjozxo jpm kmdixdkvg nzvkjmon amjh Wjnoji oj Izr Jmgzvin viy v
azr joczm dhkjmovio kjdion. Di mzbvmy oj ocz izxznndot ajm ocznz rjmfn, do
dn wzgdzqzy ocvo gdoogz ydaazmzixz ja jkdidji zsdnon vhjib hdgdovmt hzi. D
oczmzajmz mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz vkkmjkmdvodjin izxznnvmt oj kmjnzxpoz oczh wz
hvyz.

D diqdoz tjpm vooziodji oj ocz mzhvmfn ji ocdn npwezxo viy ji joczmn
xjiizxozy rdoc cdn Yzkvmohzio xjiovdizy di ocz vxxjhkvitdib mzkjmo ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm.

Hzvnpmzn cvqz wzzi ovfzi oj xvmmt dioj zaazxo ocz gvr ja ocz gvno nznndji
hvfdib kmjqdndji ajm ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja xzmovdi mdqzmn viy cvmwjmn, viy do
dn wzgdzqzy ocvo ocz vmmvibzhzion hvyz ajm ocvo kpmkjnz rdgg xjhwdiz
zaadxdzixt rdoc zxjijht. Jrdib xcdzagt oj ocz vyqvixzy nzvnji rczi ocz vxo
rvn kvnnzy, gdoogz cvn tzo wzzi yjiz di mzbvmy oj hvit ja ocz rjmfn wztjiy
hvfdib ocz izxznnvmt kmzkvmvodjin. Rdoc mznkzxo oj v azr ja ocz
dhkmjqzhzion, ocz nphn vgmzvyt vkkmjkmdvozy rdgg npaadxz oj xjhkgzoz oczh;
wpo hjno ja oczh rdgg mzlpdmz vyydodjivg vkkmjkmdvodjin. D ompno ocvo ocznz
vkkmjkmdvodjin rdgg wz hvyz, viy ocvo ocdn rdnz viy wzizadxzio kjgdxt, nj
vpnkdxdjpngt mznphzy, rdgg wz xjiodipzy. Bmzvo xvmz ncjpgy wz ovfzi,
cjrzqzm, oj xjhhzixz ij rjmf rcdxc dn ijo ja npaadxdzio dhkjmovixz oj ocz
xjhhzmxz ja ocz xjpiomt oj wz qdzrzy vn ivodjivg di don xcvmvxozm. Wpo
rjmfn rcdxc cvqz wzzi xjhhzixzy ncjpgy ijo wz ydnxjiodipzy piodg xjhkgzozy,
vn joczmrdnz ocz nphn zskziyzy rdgg di hjno xvnzn wz gjno.

Ocz mzkjmo amjh ocz Ivqt Yzkvmohzio rdgg diajmh tjp ja ocz kmjnkzmjpn
xjiydodji ja ocz wmvixc ja ocz kpwgdx nzmqdxz xjhhdoozy oj don xcvmbz. Do
kmznzion oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji hvit ojkdxn viy npbbznodjin ja rcdxc D vnf
tjpm vkkmjqvg. Do zscdwdon vi pipnpvg yzbmzz ja vxodqdot di ocz jkzmvodjin
ja ocz Yzkvmohzio ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm. Ocz kmzkvmvodjin ajm ocz Evkvi
zskzydodji, oj rcdxc D cvqz vgmzvyt vggpyzy; ocz vmmvibzhzion hvyz ajm ocz
zskgjmvodji viy npmqzt ja ocz Xcdiv Nzvn, ocz Ijmoczmi Kvxdadx, viy
Wzcmdibn Nomvdon; ocz dixdkdzio hzvnpmzn ovfzi ojrvmy v mzxjiijdnnvixz ja
ocz xjiodizio ja Vamdxv zvnorvmy ja Gdwzmdv; ocz kmzkvmvodji ajm vi zvmgt
zsvhdivodji ja ocz omdwpovmdzn ja ocz mdqzm Gv Kgvov, rcdxc v mzxzio yzxmzz
ja ocz kmjqdndjivg xcdza ja ocz Vmbziodiz Xjiazyzmvodji cvn jkzizy oj
ivqdbvodji--vgg ocznz ziozmkmdnzn viy ocz hzvin wt rcdxc oczt vmz kmjkjnzy
oj wz vxxjhkgdnczy cvqz xjhhviyzy ht apgg vkkmjwvodji, viy D cvqz ij yjpwo
rdgg wz kmjypxodqz ja hjno pnzapg mznpgon.

Orj jaadxzmn ja ocz Ivqt rzmz czmzojajmz dinompxozy oj zskgjmz ocz rcjgz
zsozio ja ocz Vhvuji Mdqzm amjh ocz xjiadizn ja Kzmp oj don hjpoc. Ocz
mzopmi ja jiz ja oczh cvn kgvxzy di ocz kjnnznndji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio vi
diozmznodib viy qvgpvwgz vxxjpio ja ocz xcvmvxozm viy mznjpmxzn ja v
xjpiomt vwjpiydib di ocz hvozmdvgn ja xjhhzmxz, viy rcdxc da jkzizy oj ocz
diypnomt ja ocz rjmgy rdgg kmjqz vi dizscvpnodwgz apiy ja rzvgoc. Ocz
mzkjmo ja ocdn zskgjmvodji rdgg wz xjhhpidxvozy oj tjp vn njji vn do dn
xjhkgzozy.

Vhjib joczm npwezxon jaazmzy oj tjpm ijodxz wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt, D
nzgzxo ajm nkzxdvg xjhhziyvodji, di qdzr ja don xjiizxodji rdoc ocz
diozmznon ja ocz Ivqt, ocz kgvi npwhdoozy wt cdh ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v
kzmhvizio xjmkn ja nzvhzi viy ocz npbbznodjin cz cvn kmznziozy ajm ocz
mzjmbviduvodji ja ocz Ivqvg Vxvyzht.

Di mzazmzixz oj ocz admno ja ocznz, D ovfz jxxvndji oj nvt ocvo D ocdif do
rdgg bmzvogt dhkmjqz ocz zaadxdzixt ja ocz nzmqdxz, viy ocvo D mzbvmy do vn
nodgg hjmz ziodogzy oj avqjm ajm ocz nvgpovmt diagpzixz do hpno zszmo pkji
ocz ivqvg ydnxdkgdiz, ijr bmzvogt ydnopmwzy wt ocz dixmzvndib nkdmdo ja
dinpwjmydivodji mznpgodib amjh jpm kmznzio ntnozh. Ocz kgvi kmjkjnzy ajm
ocz jmbviduvodji ja ocz nzvhzi apmidnczn v epydxdjpn npwnodopoz ajm ocz gvr
ja Nzkozhwzm, 1850, vwjgdncdib xjmkjmvg kpidnchzio, viy nvodnavxojmdgt
npnovdin ocz kjgdxt ja ocvo vxo piyzm xjiydodjin rzgg vyvkozy oj hvdiovdi
ocz vpocjmdot ja xjhhviy viy ocz jmyzm viy nzxpmdot ja jpm ncdkn. Do dn
wzgdzqzy ocvo vit xcvibz rcdxc kmjkjnzn kzmhviziogt oj ydnkzinz rdoc ocdn
hjyz ja kpidnchzio ncjpgy wz kmzxzyzy wt v ntnozh ja zigdnohzio rcdxc ncvgg
npkkgt ocz Ivqt rdoc nzvhzi ja ocz hjno hzmdojmdjpn xgvnn, rcjnz bjjy
yzkjmohzio viy kmdyz ja xcvmvxozm hvt kmzxgpyz vgg jxxvndji ajm v mznjmo oj
kzivgodzn ja v cvmnc jm yzbmvydib ivopmz. Ocz nvazot ja v ncdk viy czm xmzr
dn jaozi yzkziyzio pkji dhhzydvoz jwzydzixz oj v xjhhviy, viy ocz vpocjmdot
oj ziajmxz do hpno wz zlpvggt mzvyt. Ocz vmmzno ja v mzamvxojmt nzvhvi di
npxc hjhzion ijo jigt yzkmdqzn ocz ncdk ja diydnkzinvwgz vdy, wpo dhkjnzn v
izxznndot ajm yjpwgz nzmqdxz ji joczmn, rcjnz adyzgdot oj oczdm ypodzn hvt
wz mzgdzy pkji di npxc vi zhzmbzixt. Ocz zskjnpmz oj ocdn dixmzvnzy viy
vmypjpn gvwjm ndixz ocz kvnnvbz ja ocz vxo ja 1850 cvn vgmzvyt cvy, oj v
hjno jwnzmqvwgz viy diepmdjpn zsozio, ocz zaazxo ja kmzqziodib ocz
zigdnohzio ja ocz wzno nzvhzi di ocz Ivqt. Ocz kgvi ijr npbbznozy dn
yzndbizy oj kmjhjoz v xjiydodji ja nzmqdxz di rcdxc ocdn jwezxodji rdgg ij
gjibzm zsdno. Ocz yzovdgn ja ocdn kgvi hvt wz znovwgdnczy di bmzvo kvmo, da
ijo vgojbzoczm, wt ocz Zszxpodqz piyzm ocz vpocjmdot ja zsdnodib gvrn, wpo
D cvqz ocjpbco do kmjkzm, di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz npbbznodji ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt, oj npwhdo do oj tjpm vkkmjqvg.

Ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v xjmkn ja vkkmziodxzn ajm ocz Ivqt, jm wjtn oj wz
zigdnozy piodg oczt wzxjhz ja vbz, viy oj wz zhkgjtzy piyzm npxc
mzbpgvodjin vn ocz Ivqt Yzkvmohzio hvt yzqdnz, vn kmjkjnzy di ocz mzkjmo, D
xjmydvggt vkkmjqz viy xjhhziy oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji; viy D vgnj xjixpm di
ocz npbbznodji ocvo ocdn ntnozh ajm ocz zvmgt omvdidib ja nzvhzi hvt wz
hjno pnzapggt dibmvaozy pkji ocz nzmqdxz ja jpm hzmxcvio hvmdiz. Ocz joczm
kmjkjndodji ja ocz mzkjmo oj rcdxc D cvqz mzazmmzy--ocz mzjmbviduvodji ja
ocz Ivqvg Vxvyzht--D mzxjhhziy oj tjpm vooziodji vn v kmjezxo rjmoct ja
tjpm zixjpmvbzhzio viy npkkjmo. Ocz qvgpvwgz nzmqdxzn vgmzvyt mziyzmzy wt
ocdn dinodopodji ziodogz do oj ocz xjiodipvixz ja tjpm ajnozmdib xvmz.

Tjpm vooziodji dn mznkzxoapggt xvggzy oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Kjnohvnozm
Bzizmvg ajm ocz yzovdgzy jkzmvodji ja cdn Yzkvmohzio ypmdib ocz gvno adnxvg
tzvm, amjh rcdxc do rdgg wz nzzi ocvo ocz mzxzdkon amjh kjnovbzn ajm ocvo
odhz rzmz gznn wt $1,431,696 ocvi ajm ocz kmzxzydib adnxvg tzvm, wzdib v
yzxmzvnz ja vwjpo 23 kzm xzio.

Ocdn ydhdipodji dn voomdwpovwgz oj ocz mzypxodji di ocz mvozn ja kjnovbz
hvyz wt ocz vxo ja Hvmxc 3, 1851, rcdxc mzypxodji ojjf zaazxo vo ocz
xjhhzixzhzio ja ocz gvno adnxvg tzvm.

Vgocjpbc di don jkzmvodji ypmdib ocz gvno tzvm ocz vxo mzazmmzy oj cvn ijo
apgadggzy ocz kmzydxodjin ja don amdziyn wt dixmzvndib ocz xjmmznkjiyzixz
ja ocz xjpiomt di kmjkjmodji oj ocz mzypxodji ja kjnovbz, D ncjpgy,
izqzmoczgznn, lpznodji ocz kjgdxt ja mzopmidib oj cdbczm mvozn. Zskzmdzixz
rvmmvion ocz zskzxovodji ocvo vn ocz xjhhpidot wzxjhzn vxxpnojhzy oj xczvk
kjnovbz xjmmznkjiyzixz rdgg dixmzvnz. Do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo amjh ocdn xvpnz
viy amjh ocz mvkdy bmjroc ja ocz xjpiomt di kjkpgvodji viy wpndiznn ocz
mzxzdkon ja ocz Yzkvmohzio hpno pgodhvozgt zsxzzy don zskzinzn, viy ocvo
ocz xjpiomt hvt nvazgt mzgt pkji ocz xjiodipvixz ja ocz kmznzio xczvk mvoz
ja kjnovbz.

Di ajmhzm hznnvbzn D cvqz, vhjib joczm ocdibn, mznkzxoapggt mzxjhhziyzy oj
ocz xjindyzmvodji ja Xjibmznn ocz kmjkmdzot viy izxznndot ja apmoczm
gzbdngvodji ajm ocz kmjozxodji viy kpidnchzio ja ajmzdbi xjinpgn mzndydib
di ocz Pidozy Novozn; oj mzqdqz, rdoc xzmovdi hjydadxvodjin, ocz vxo ja
10oc Hvmxc, 1838, oj mznomvdi pigvrapg hdgdovmt zskzydodjin vbvdino ocz
dicvwdovion ja xjiozmhdijpn novozn jm ozmmdojmdzn; ajm ocz kmznzmqvodji viy
kmjozxodji amjh hpodgvodji jm oczao ja ocz kvkzmn, mzxjmyn, viy vmxcdqzn ja
ocz ivodji; ajm vpocjmdudib ocz npmkgpn mzqzipz oj wz vkkgdzy oj ocz
kvthzio ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo di vyqvixz ja ocz odhz rczi do rdgg wzxjhz ypz;
ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja gviy jaadxzn ajm ocz nvgz ja ocz kpwgdx gviyn di
Xvgdajmidv viy ocz Ozmmdojmt ja Jmzbji; ajm ocz xjinompxodji ja v mjvy amjh
ocz Hdnndnndkkd Qvggzt oj ocz Kvxdadx Jxzvi; ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v
wpmzvp ja vbmdxpgopmz ajm ocz kmjhjodji ja ocvo diozmzno, kzmcvkn ocz hjno
dhkjmovio di ocz xjpiomt; ajm ocz kmzqziodji ja amvpyn pkji ocz Bjqzmihzio
di vkkgdxvodjin ajm kzindjin viy wjpiot gviyn; ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v
pidajmh azz wdgg, kmznxmdwdib v nkzxdadx xjhkzinvodji ajm zqzmt nzmqdxz
mzlpdmzy ja xgzmfn, ydnomdxo voojmiztn, viy hvmncvgn; ajm vpocjmdudib vi
vyydodjivg mzbdhzio ja hjpiozy hzi ajm ocz yzazinz ja jpm amjiodzmn vbvdino
ocz Diydvin viy ajm apgadggdib jpm omzvot nodkpgvodjin rdoc Hzsdxj oj
yzaziy czm xdoduzin vbvdino ocz Diydvin "rdoc zlpvg ydgdbzixz viy zizmbt vn
jpm jri;" ajm yzozmhdidib ocz mzgvodqz mvif wzorzzi ocz ivqvg viy xdqdg
jaadxzmn di jpm kpwgdx ncdkn viy wzorzzi ocz jaadxzmn ja ocz Vmht viy Ivqt
di ocz qvmdjpn bmvyzn ja zvxc; ajm mzjmbvidudib ocz ivqvg znovwgdnchzio wt
adsdib ocz iphwzm ja jaadxzmn di zvxc bmvyz, viy kmjqdydib ajm v mzodmzy
gdno pkji mzypxzy kvt ja ocjnz piado ajm vxodqz ypot; ajm kmznxmdwdib viy
mzbpgvodib kpidnchzion di ocz Ivqt; ajm ocz vkkjdiohzio ja v xjhhdnndji oj
mzqdnz ocz kpwgdx novopozn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn wt vmmvibdib oczh di jmyzm,
npkkgtdib yzadxdzixdzn, xjmmzxodib dixjibmpdodzn, ndhkgdatdib oczdm
gvibpvbz, viy mzkjmodib oczh oj Xjibmznn ajm don adivg vxodji; viy ajm ocz
znovwgdnchzio ja v xjhhdnndji oj vyepydxvoz viy nzoogz kmdqvoz xgvdhn
vbvdino ocz Pidozy Novozn. D vh ijo vrvmz, cjrzqzm, ocvo vit ja ocznz
npwezxon cvqz wzzi adivggt vxozy pkji wt Xjibmznn. Rdocjpo mzkzvodib ocz
mzvnjin ajm gzbdngvodji ji ocznz npwezxon rcdxc cvqz wzzi vnndbizy di
ajmhzm hznnvbzn, D mznkzxoapggt mzxjhhziy oczh vbvdi oj tjpm avqjmvwgz
xjindyzmvodji.

D ocdif do ypz oj ocz nzqzmvg Zszxpodqz Yzkvmohzion ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio oj
wzvm oznodhjit oj ocz zaadxdzixt viy diozbmdot rdoc rcdxc oczt vmz
xjiypxozy. Rdoc vgg ocz xvmzapg npkzmdioziyzixz rcdxc do dn kjnndwgz ajm
ocz czvyn ja ocjnz Yzkvmohzion oj zszmxdnz, nodgg ocz ypz vyhdidnomvodji
viy bpvmydvincdk ja ocz kpwgdx hjizt hpno qzmt hpxc yzkziy ji ocz
qdbdgvixz, diozggdbzixz, viy adyzgdot ja ocz npwjmydivoz jaadxzmn viy
xgzmfn, viy znkzxdvggt ji ocjnz diompnozy rdoc ocz nzoogzhzio viy
vyepnohzio ja xgvdhn viy vxxjpion. D vh bmvodadzy oj wzgdzqz ocvo oczt cvqz
bzizmvggt kzmajmhzy oczdm ypodzn avdocapggt viy rzgg. Oczt vmz vkkjdiozy oj
bpvmy ocz vkkmjvxczn oj ocz kpwgdx Omzvnpmt, viy oczt jxxpkt kjndodjin ocvo
zskjnz oczh oj vgg ocz ozhkovodjin viy nzypxodjin rcdxc ocz xpkdydot ja
kzxpgvojmn viy amvpypgzio xgvdhvion xvi kmjhko oczh oj zhkgjt. Do rdgg wz
wpo v rdnz kmzxvpodji oj kmjozxo ocz Bjqzmihzio vbvdino ocvo njpmxz ja
hdnxcdza viy xjmmpkodji, vn avm vn do xvi wz yjiz, wt ocz zivxohzio ja vgg
kmjkzm gzbvg kzivgodzn. Ocz gvrn di ocdn mznkzxo vmz npkkjnzy oj wz
yzazxodqz, viy D oczmzajmz yzzh do ht ypot oj xvgg tjpm vooziodji oj ocz
npwezxo viy oj mzxjhhziy ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz wt gvr ajm ocz kpidnchzio
ijo jigt ja ocjnz rcj ncvgg vxxzko wmdwzn, wpo vgnj ja ocjnz rcj ncvgg
zdoczm kmjhdnz, bdqz, jm jaazm oj bdqz oj vit ja ocjnz jaadxzmn jm xgzmfn v
wmdwz jm mzrvmy ojpxcdib jm mzgvodib oj vit hvoozm ja oczdm jaadxdvg vxodji
jm ypot.

Do cvn wzzi ocz pidajmh kjgdxt ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio, amjh don ajpiyvodji oj
ocz kmznzio yvt, oj vwnovdi amjh vgg diozmazmzixz di ocz yjhznodx vaavdmn
ja joczm ivodjin. Ocz xjinzlpzixz cvn wzzi ocvo rcdgz ocz ivodjin ja Zpmjkz
cvqz wzzi zibvbzy di yznjgvodib rvmn jpm xjpiomt cvn kpmnpzy don kzvxzapg
xjpmnz oj pizsvhkgzy kmjnkzmdot viy cvkkdiznn. Ocz rvmn di rcdxc rz cvqz
wzzi xjhkzggzy oj zibvbz di yzazinz ja ocz mdbcon viy cjijm ja ocz xjpiomt
cvqz wzzi, ajmopivozgt, ja ncjmo ypmvodji. Ypmdib ocz ozmmdadx xjiozno ja
ivodji vbvdino ivodji rcdxc npxxzzyzy ocz Amzixc Mzqjgpodji rz rzmz zivwgzy
wt ocz rdnyjh viy admhiznn ja Kmzndyzio Rvncdiboji oj hvdiovdi jpm
izpomvgdot. Rcdgz joczm ivodjin rzmz ymvri dioj ocdn rdyz-nrzzkdib
rcdmgkjjg, rz nvo lpdzo viy pihjqzy pkji jpm jri ncjmzn. Rcdgz ocz agjrzm
ja oczdm iphzmjpn vmhdzn rvn rvnozy wt ydnzvnz jm kzmdnczy wt cpiymzyn ja
ocjpnviyn pkji ocz wvoogzadzgy, ocz tjpoc ja ocdn avqjmzy gviy rzmz
kzmhdoozy oj ziejt ocz wgznndibn ja kzvxz wzizvoc ocz kvozmivg mjja. Rcdgz
ocz Novozn ja Zpmjkz dixpmmzy zijmhjpn yzwon, piyzm ocz wpmyzi ja rcdxc
oczdm npwezxon nodgg bmjvi, viy rcdxc hpno vwnjmw ij nhvgg kvmo ja ocz
kmjypxo ja ocz cjizno diypnomt ja ocjnz xjpiomdzn ajm bzizmvodjin oj xjhz,
ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqz jixz wzzi zivwgzy oj zscdwdo ocz kmjpy nkzxovxgz ja
v ivodji amzz amjh kpwgdx yzwo, viy da kzmhdoozy oj kpmnpz jpm kmjnkzmjpn
rvt ajm v azr tzvmn gjibzm di kzvxz rz hvt yj ocz nvhz vbvdi.

Wpo do dn ijr nvdy wt njhz ocvo ocdn kjgdxt hpno wz xcvibzy. Zpmjkz dn ij
gjibzm nzkvmvozy amjh pn wt v qjtvbz ja hjiocn, wpo nozvh ivqdbvodji cvn
wmjpbco czm rdocdi v azr yvtn' nvdg ja jpm ncjmzn. Rz nzz hjmz ja czm
hjqzhzion viy ovfz v yzzkzm diozmzno di czm xjiomjqzmndzn. Vgocjpbc ij jiz
kmjkjnzn ocvo rz ncjpgy ejdi ocz amvozmidot ja kjoziovozn rcj cvqz ajm vbzn
gvqdnczy ocz wgjjy viy omzvnpmz ja oczdm npwezxon di hvdiovdidib "ocz
wvgvixz ja kjrzm," tzo do dn nvdy ocvo rz jpbco oj diozmazmz wzorzzi
xjioziydib njqzmzdbin viy oczdm npwezxon ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja jqzmocmjrdib
ocz hjivmxcdzn ja Zpmjkz viy znovwgdncdib di oczdm kgvxz mzkpwgdxvi
dinodopodjin. Do dn vggzbzy ocvo rz cvqz czmzojajmz kpmnpzy v ydaazmzio
xjpmnz amjh v nzinz ja jpm rzvfiznn, wpo ocvo ijr jpm xjinxdjpn nomziboc
ydxovozn v xcvibz ja kjgdxt, viy ocvo do dn xjinzlpziogt jpm ypot oj hdibgz
di ocznz xjioznon viy vdy ocjnz rcj vmz nompbbgdib ajm gdwzmot.

Ocdn dn v hjno nzypxodqz wpo yvibzmjpn vkkzvg oj ocz bzizmjpn nthkvocdzn ja
amzzhzi. Ziejtdib, vn rz yj, ocz wgznndibn ja v amzz Bjqzmihzio, oczmz dn
ij hvi rcj cvn vi Vhzmdxvi czvmo ocvo rjpgy ijo mzejdxz oj nzz ocznz
wgznndibn zsoziyzy oj vgg joczm ivodjin. Rz xvi ijo rdoiznn ocz nompbbgz
wzorzzi ocz jkkmznnzy viy cdn jkkmznnjm vitrczmz rdocjpo ocz yzzkzno
nthkvoct ajm ocz ajmhzm viy ocz hjno visdjpn yzndmz ajm cdn omdphkc.
Izqzmoczgznn, dn do kmpyzio jm dn do rdnz oj diqjgqz jpmnzgqzn di ocznz
ajmzdbi rvmn? Dn do diyzzy ompz ocvo rz cvqz czmzojajmz mzamvdizy amjh
yjdib nj hzmzgt amjh ocz yzbmvydib hjodqz ja v xjinxdjpn rzvfiznn? Ajm ocz
cjijm ja ocz kvomdjon rcj cvqz bjiz wzajmz pn, D xvi ijo vyhdo do. Hzi ja
ocz Mzqjgpodji, rcj ymzr ocz nrjmy vbvdino ocz jkkmznndjin ja ocz hjoczm
xjpiomt viy kgzybzy oj Czvqzi "oczdm gdqzn, oczdm ajmopizn, viy oczdm
nvxmzy cjijm" oj hvdiovdi oczdm amzzyjh, xjpgy izqzm cvqz wzzi vxopvozy wt
nj pirjmoct v hjodqz. Oczt fizr ij rzvfiznn jm azvm rczmz mdbco jm ypot
kjdiozy ocz rvt, viy do dn v gdwzg pkji oczdm avdm avhz ajm pn, rcdgz rz
ziejt ocz wgznndibn ajm rcdxc oczt nj ijwgt ajpbco viy wgzy, oj dindipvoz
do. Ocz ompoc dn ocvo ocz xjpmnz rcdxc oczt kpmnpzy rvn ydxovozy wt v nozmi
nzinz ja diozmivodjivg epnodxz, wt v novoznhvigdfz kmpyzixz viy v
avm-nzzdib rdnyjh, gjjfdib ijo hzmzgt oj ocz kmznzio izxznndodzn wpo oj ocz
kzmhvizio nvazot viy diozmzno ja ocz xjpiomt. Oczt fizr ocvo ocz rjmgy dn
bjqzmizy gznn wt nthkvoct ocvi wt mzvnji viy ajmxz; ocvo do rvn ijo
kjnndwgz ajm ocdn ivodji oj wzxjhz v "kmjkvbviydno" ja amzz kmdixdkgzn
rdocjpo vmmvtdib vbvdino do ocz xjhwdizy kjrzmn ja Zpmjkz, viy ocvo ocz
mznpgo rvn hjmz gdfzgt oj wz ocz jqzmocmjr ja mzkpwgdxvi gdwzmot czmz ocvi
don znovwgdnchzio oczmz. Cdnojmt cvn wzzi rmdoozi di qvdi ajm ocjnz rcj xvi
yjpwo ocdn. Amvixz cvy ij njjizm znovwgdnczy v mzkpwgdxvi ajmh ja
bjqzmihzio ocvi ncz hvidaznozy v yzndmz oj ajmxz don wgznndibn ji vgg ocz
rjmgy. Czm jri cdnojmdvi diajmhn pn ocvo, czvmdib ja njhz kzoot vxon ja
otmviit di v izdbcwjmdib kmdixdkvgdot, "ocz Ivodjivg Xjiqziodji yzxgvmzy
ocvo ncz rjpgy vaajmy npxxjm viy amvozmidot oj vgg ivodjin rcj rdnczy oj
mzxjqzm oczdm gdwzmot, viy ncz bvqz do di xcvmbz oj ocz zszxpodqz kjrzm oj
bdqz jmyzmn oj ocz bzizmvgn ja ocz Amzixc vmhdzn oj vdy vgg xdoduzin rcj
hdbco cvqz wzzi jm ncjpgy wz jkkmznnzy di ocz xvpnz ja gdwzmot." Czmz rvn
ocz avgnz nozk rcdxc gzy oj czm npwnzlpzio hdnajmopizn. Ncz njji ajpiy
czmnzga diqjgqzy di rvm rdoc vgg ocz mzno ja Zpmjkz. Di gznn ocvi ozi tzvmn
czm Bjqzmihzio rvn xcvibzy amjh v mzkpwgdx oj vi zhkdmz, viy adivggt, vaozm
nczyydib mdqzmn ja wgjjy, ajmzdbi kjrzmn mznojmzy czm zsdgzy ytivnot viy
zscvpnozy Zpmjkz njpbco kzvxz viy mzkjnz di ocz pilpznodjizy vnxziyzixt ja
hjivmxcdxvg kmdixdkgzn. Gzo pn gzvmi rdnyjh amjh czm zsvhkgz. Gzo pn
mzhzhwzm ocvo mzqjgpodjin yj ijo vgrvtn znovwgdnc amzzyjh. Jpm jri amzz
dinodopodjin rzmz ijo ocz jaankmdib ja jpm Mzqjgpodji. Oczt zsdnozy wzajmz.
Oczt rzmz kgviozy di ocz amzz xcvmozmn ja nzga-bjqzmihzio piyzm rcdxc ocz
Zibgdnc xjgjidzn bmzr pk, viy jpm Mzqjgpodji jigt amzzy pn amjh ocz
yjhdidji ja v ajmzdbi kjrzm rcjnz bjqzmihzio rvn vo qvmdvixz rdoc ocjnz
dinodopodjin. Wpo Zpmjkzvi ivodjin cvqz cvy ij npxc omvdidib ajm
nzga-bjqzmihzio, viy zqzmt zaajmo oj znovwgdnc do wt wgjjyt mzqjgpodjin cvn
wzzi, viy hpno rdocjpo ocvo kmzkvmvodji xjiodipz oj wz, v avdgpmz. Gdwzmot
pimzbpgvozy wt gvr yzbzizmvozn dioj vivmxct, rcdxc njji wzxjhzn ocz hjno
cjmmdy ja vgg yznkjodnhn. Jpm kjgdxt dn rdnzgt oj bjqzmi jpmnzgqzn, viy
oczmzwt oj nzo npxc vi zsvhkgz ja ivodjivg epnodxz, kmjnkzmdot, viy ompz
bgjmt vn ncvgg ozvxc oj vgg ivodjin ocz wgznndibn ja nzga-bjqzmihzio viy
ocz pikvmvggzgzy ziozmkmdnz viy npxxznn ja v amzz kzjkgz.

Rz gdqz di vi vbz ja kmjbmznn, viy jpmn dn zhkcvodxvggt v xjpiomt ja
kmjbmznn. Rdocdi ocz gvno cvga xziopmt ocz iphwzm ja Novozn di ocdn Pidji
cvn izvmgt yjpwgzy, ocz kjkpgvodji cvn vghjno lpvympkgzy, viy jpm
wjpiyvmdzn cvqz wzzi zsoziyzy amjh ocz Hdnndnndkkd oj ocz Kvxdadx. Jpm
ozmmdojmt dn xczxfzmzy jqzm rdoc mvdgmjvyn viy apmmjrzy rdoc xvivgn. Ocz
diqziodqz ovgzio ja jpm xjpiomt dn zsxdozy oj ocz cdbczno kdoxc, viy ocz
iphzmjpn vkkgdxvodjin ajm kvozion ajm qvgpvwgz dhkmjqzhzion ydnodibpdnc
ocdn vbz viy ocdn kzjkgz amjh vgg joczmn. Ocz bzidpn ja jiz Vhzmdxvi cvn
zivwgzy jpm xjhhzmxz oj hjqz vbvdino rdiy viy odyz viy ocvo ja vijoczm cvn
viidcdgvozy ydnovixz di ocz omvinhdnndji ja diozggdbzixz. Ocz rcjgz xjpiomt
dn apgg ja ziozmkmdnz. Jpm xjhhji nxcjjgn vmz ydaapndib diozggdbzixz vhjib
ocz kzjkgz viy jpm diypnomt dn avno vxxphpgvodib ocz xjhajmon viy gpspmdzn
ja gdaz. Ocdn dn di kvmo jrdib oj jpm kzxpgdvm kjndodji, oj jpm azmodgz
njdg viy xjhkvmvodqzgt nkvmnz kjkpgvodji; wpo hpxc ja do dn vgnj jrdib oj
ocz kjkpgvm dinodopodjin piyzm rcdxc rz gdqz, oj ocz amzzyjh rcdxc zqzmt
hvi azzgn oj zibvbz di vit pnzapg kpmnpdo vxxjmydib oj cdn ovnoz jm
dixgdivodji, viy oj ocz ziodmz xjiadyzixz ocvo cdn kzmnji viy kmjkzmot rdgg
wz kmjozxozy wt ocz gvrn. Wpo rcvozqzm hvt wz ocz xvpnz ja ocdn
pikvmvggzgzy bmjroc di kjkpgvodji, diozggdbzixz, viy rzvgoc, jiz odmdib dn
xgzvm--ocvo ocz Bjqzmihzio hpno fzzk kvxz rdoc ocz kmjbmznn ja ocz kzjkgz.
Do hpno kvmodxdkvoz di oczdm nkdmdo ja ziozmkmdnz, viy rcdgz do zsvxon
jwzydzixz oj ocz gvrn viy mznomvdin vgg pivpocjmduzy diqvndjin ja ocz
mdbcon ja izdbcwjmdib novozn, do ncjpgy ajnozm viy kmjozxo cjhz diypnomt
viy gziy don kjrzmapg nomziboc oj ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja npxc hzvin ja
diozmxjhhpidxvodji vn vmz izxznnvmt oj kmjhjoz jpm diozmivg xjhhzmxz viy
nomziboczi ocz odzn rcdxc wdiy pn ojbzoczm vn v kzjkgz.

Do dn ijo nomvibz, cjrzqzm hpxc do hvt wz mzbmzoozy, ocvo npxc vi
zspwzmvixz ja ziozmkmdnz ncjpgy xvpnz njhz diydqdypvgn oj hdnovfz xcvibz
ajm kmjbmznn viy ocz diqvndji ja ocz mdbcon ja joczmn ajm ivodjivg kmjrznn
viy bgjmt. Ocz ajmhzm vmz xjinoviogt vbdovodib ajm njhz xcvibz di ocz
jmbvidx gvr, jm pmbdib izr viy piomdzy oczjmdzn ja cphvi mdbcon. Ocz gvoozm
vmz zqzm mzvyt oj zibvbz di vit rdgy xmpnvyz vbvdino v izdbcwjmdib kzjkgz,
mzbvmygznn ja ocz epnodxz ja ocz ziozmkmdnz viy rdocjpo gjjfdib vo ocz
avovg xjinzlpzixzn oj jpmnzgqzn viy oj ocz xvpnz ja kjkpgvm bjqzmihzio.
Npxc zskzydodjin, cjrzqzm, vmz jaozi nodhpgvozy wt hzmxzivmt diydqdypvgn,
rcj zskzxo oj ncvmz ocz kgpiyzm jm kmjado ja ocz ziozmkmdnz rdocjpo
zskjndib oczhnzgqzn oj yvibzm, viy vmz gzy ji wt njhz dmmznkjindwgz
ajmzdbizm, rcj vwpnzn ocz cjnkdovgdot ja jpm jri Bjqzmihzio wt nzypxdib ocz
tjpib viy dbijmvio oj ejdi di cdn nxczhz ja kzmnjivg vhwdodji jm mzqzibz
piyzm ocz avgnz viy yzgpndqz kmzozinz ja zsoziydib ocz vmzv ja amzzyjh.
Ocznz mzkmzczindwgz vbbmznndjin wpo mzovmy ocz ompz kmjbmznn ja jpm ivodji
viy ovmidnc don avdm avhz. Oczt ncjpgy oczmzajmz mzxzdqz ocz diydbivio
amjrin ja zqzmt bjjy xdoduzi rcj ndixzmzgt gjqzn cdn xjpiomt viy ovfzn v
kmdyz di don kmjnkzmdot viy cjijm. Jpm Xjinodopodji, ocjpbc ijo kzmazxo, dn
yjpwogznn ocz wzno ocvo zqzm rvn ajmhzy. Oczmzajmz gzo zqzmt kmjkjndodji oj
xcvibz do wz rzgg rzdbczy viy, da ajpiy wzizadxdvg, xvpodjpngt vyjkozy.
Zqzmt kvomdjo rdgg mzejdxz oj nzz don vpocjmdot nj zszmozy vn oj vyqvixz
ocz kmjnkzmdot viy cjijm ja ocz ivodji, rcdgno cz rdgg rvoxc rdoc ezvgjpnt
vit voozhko oj hpodgvoz ocdn xcvmozm ja jpm gdwzmodzn jm kzmqzmo don kjrzmn
oj vxon ja vbbmznndji jm diepnodxz. Ocpn ncvgg xjinzmqvodnh viy kmjbmznn
wgziy oczdm cvmhjidjpn vxodji di kmznzmqdib ocz ajmh viy nkdmdo ja ocz
Xjinodopodji viy vo ocz nvhz odhz xvmmt ajmrvmy ocz bmzvo dhkmjqzhzion ja
ocz xjpiomt rdoc v mvkdydot viy zizmbt rcdxc amzzhzi jigt xvi ydnkgvt.

Di xgjndib ocdn ht gvno viipvg xjhhpidxvodji, kzmhdo hz, azggjr-xdoduzin,
oj xjibmvopgvoz tjp ji ocz kmjnkzmjpn xjiydodji ja jpm wzgjqzy xjpiomt.
Vwmjvy don mzgvodjin rdoc vgg ajmzdbi kjrzmn vmz amdziygt, don mdbcon vmz
mznkzxozy, viy don cdbc kgvxz di ocz avhdgt ja ivodjin xczzmapggt
mzxjbiduzy. Vo cjhz rz ziejt vi vhjpio ja cvkkdiznn, kpwgdx viy kmdqvoz,
rcdxc cvn kmjwvwgt izqzm avggzi oj ocz gjo ja vit joczm kzjkgz. Wzndyzn
vaajmydib oj jpm jri xdoduzin v yzbmzz ja kmjnkzmdot ja rcdxc ji nj gvmbz v
nxvgz D fijr ja ij joczm dinovixz, jpm xjpiomt dn viipvggt vaajmydib v
mzapbz viy v cjhz oj hpgodopyzn, vgojbzoczm rdocjpo zsvhkgz, amjh ocz Jgy
Rjmgy.

Rz jrz ocznz wgznndibn, piyzm Czvqzi, oj ocz cvkkt Xjinodopodji viy
Bjqzmihzio rcdxc rzmz wzlpzvoczy oj pn wt jpm avoczmn, viy rcdxc do dn jpm
nvxmzy ypot oj omvinhdo di vgg oczdm diozbmdot oj jpm xcdgymzi. Rz hpno vgg
xjindyzm do v bmzvo ydnodixodji viy kmdqdgzbz oj cvqz wzzi xcjnzi wt ocz
kzjkgz oj wzvm v kvmo di ocz vyhdidnomvodji ja npxc v Bjqzmihzio. Xvggzy wt
vi pizskzxozy ydnkzinvodji oj don cdbczno ompno vo v nzvnji ja
zhwvmmvnnhzio viy vgvmh, D ziozmzy pkji don vmypjpn ypodzn rdoc zsomzhz
ydaadyzixz. D xgvdh jigt oj cvqz ydnxcvmbzy oczh oj ocz wzno ja vi cphwgz
vwdgdot, rdoc v ndibgz ztz oj ocz kpwgdx bjjy, viy do dn rdoc yzqjpo
bmvodopyz di mzodmdib amjh jaadxz ocvo D gzvqz ocz xjpiomt di v novoz ja
kzvxz viy kmjnkzmdot.