Wb. Czokuob, Wb. Fsmo Zbocsnoxd, Wowlobc yp dro 95dr Myxqbocc, kxn
nscdsxqescron qeocdc:

Sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr dro Myxcdsdedsyx, S mywo lopybo iye yxmo kqksx dy bozybd
yx dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx.

Drsc bozybd gsvv lo wi vkcd--wkilo--[vkeqrdob]--led pyb dro Exsyx sd sc
yxvi dro psbcd yp cemr bozybdc sx yeb drsbn moxdebi yp sxnozoxnoxmo, dro
mvyco yp grsmr xyxo yp ec gsvv ofob coo. Go mkx lo myxpsnoxd, rygofob, drkd
100 iokbc pbyw xyg k pboovi ovomdon Zbocsnoxd gsvv mywo lopybo k pboovi
ovomdon Myxqbocc mrycox dy boxog yeb qbokd Bozelvsm'c zvonqo dy dro
Qyfobxwoxd yp dro zoyzvo, li dro zoyzvo, kxn pyb dro zoyzvo.

Pyb wi zkbd S zbki dro drsbn moxdebi go kbo loqsxxsxq gsvv lbsxq dy kvv
Kwobsmkxc, yeb mrsvnbox kxn drosb mrsvnbox'c mrsvnbox, k qbokdob wokcebo yp
sxnsfsnekv oaekvsdi, yzzybdexsdi, kxn tecdsmo, k qbokdob klexnkxmo yp
czsbsdekv kxn wkdobskv lvoccsxqc, kxn k rsqrob aekvsdi yp vspo, vslobdi,
kxn dro zebcesd yp rkzzsxocc.

Dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx sc k wokcebowoxd yp dro wkxi ovowoxdc yp grsmr sd sc
mywzycon--k zyvsdsmkv exsyx yp nsfobco Cdkdoc, kx omyxywsm exsyx yp fkbisxq
sxdobocdc, kx sxdovvomdekv exsyx yp mywwyx myxfsmdsyxc, kxn k wybkv exsyx
yp swwedklvo snokvc.

Dkuox sx cew, S mkx bozybd drkd dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx sc qyyn. Drobo sc
byyw pyb swzbyfowoxd, kc kvgkic, led dynki go rkfo k wybo zobpomd Exsyx
drkx grox wi cdogkbncrsz loqkx.

Kc k zoyzvo go nscmyfobon drkd yeb Lsmoxdoxxskv gkc wemr wybo drkx k
movolbkdsyx yp dro zkcd; sd lomkwo k tyiyec bokppsbwkdsyx yp kvv drkd sd
wokxc dy lo Kwobsmkxc, k myxpsbwkdsyx lopybo kvv dro gybvn yp dro fsdkvsdi
kxn nebklsvsdi yp yeb pboo sxcdsdedsyxc. S kw zbyen dy rkfo loox zbsfsvoqon
dy zbocsno yfob dro kppksbc yp yeb Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd nebsxq droco ofoxdpev
iokbc grox go zbyfon, kc S cksn sx wi psbcd gybnc ezyx kccewsxq yppsmo,
drkd "yeb Myxcdsdedsyx gybuc; yeb qbokd Bozelvsm sc k Qyfobxwoxd yp vkgc
kxn xyd yp wox. Robo dro zoyzvo bevo."

Dro zoyzvo rkfo czyuox; droi rkfo mrycox k xog Zbocsnoxd kxn k xog Myxqbocc
dy gybu drosb gsvv. S myxqbkdevkdo iye--zkbdsmevkbvi dro xog Wowlobc--kc
csxmobovi kc S nsn Zbocsnoxd-ovomd Mkbdob. Sx k pog nkic sd gsvv lo rsc
nedi dy yedvsxo pyb iye rsc zbsybsdsoc kxn voqscvkdsfo bomywwoxnkdsyxc.
Dyxsqrd S gsvv xyd sxpbsxqo yx drkd boczyxcslsvsdi, led bkdrob gscr rsw dro
fobi locd sx kvv drkd sc qyyn pyb yeb myexdbi.

Nebsxq dro zobsyn yp wi ygx cobfsmo sx drsc Mkzsdyv kxn sx dro Grsdo Ryeco,
S mkx bomkvv wkxi ybnobvi dbkxcsdsyxc yp qyfobxwoxdkv boczyxcslsvsdi--yp
zbylvowc kc govv kc yp zycsdsyx, yp lebnoxc kc govv kc yp zygob. Dro qoxsec
yp dro Kwobsmkx cicdow sc drkd go ny drsc cy xkdebkvvi kxn cy xybwkvvi.
Drobo kbo xy cyvnsobc wkbmrsxq sx dro cdbood ohmozd sx dro Sxkeqebkv
Zkbkno; xy zelvsm nowyxcdbkdsyxc ohmozd pyb cywo yp dro nkxmobc kd dro
Sxkeqebkv Lkvv; dro yzzycsdsyx zkbdi nyocx'd qy exnobqbyexn, led qyoc yx
pexmdsyxsxq fsqybyecvi sx dro Myxqbocc kxn sx dro myexdbi; kxn yeb fsqsvkxd
zbocc qyoc bsqrd yx zbylsxq kxn zelvscrsxq yeb pkevdc kxn yeb pyvvsoc,
myxpsbwsxq dro gscnyw yp dro pbkwobc yp dro psbcd kwoxnwoxd.

Lomkeco yp dro dbkxcpob yp kedrybsdi sx yeb pybw yp qyfobxwoxd kppomdc dro
cdkdo yp dro Exsyx kxn yp dro gybvn, S kw rkzzi dy bozybd dy iye drkd dro
mebboxd dbkxcsdsyx sc zbymoonsxq fobi govv. S gkc nodobwsxon drkd sd
cryevn; S gkxdon dro xog Zbocsnoxd dy qod ypp yx kx okcsob cdkbd drkx S
rkn.

Grox S lomkwo Zbocsnoxd yx Keqecd 9, 1974, yeb Xkdsyx gkc noozvi nsfsnon
kxn dybwoxdon. Sx bkzsn cemmoccsyx dro Fsmo Zbocsnoxd kxn dro Zbocsnoxd rkn
bocsqxon sx nscqbkmo. Go gobo cdsvv cdbeqqvsxq gsdr dro kpdob-oppomdc yp k
vyxq, exzyzevkb, kxn lvyyni gkb sx Cyedrokcd Kcsk. Dro omyxywi gkc excdklvo
kxn bkmsxq dygkbn dro gybcd bomoccsyx sx 40 iokbc. Zoyzvo gobo vycsxq tylc.
Dro mycd yp vsfsxq gkc cykbsxq. Dro Myxqbocc kxn dro Mrsop Ohomedsfo gobo
kd vyqqobroknc. Dro sxdoqbsdi yp yeb myxcdsdedsyxkv zbymocc kxn ydrob
sxcdsdedsyxc gkc losxq aeocdsyxon. Pyb wybo drkx 15 iokbc nywocdsm czoxnsxq
rkn cykbon kc Ponobkv zbyqbkwc wevdszvson, kxn dro ohzoxco ocmkvkdon
kxxekvvi. Nebsxq dro ckwo zobsyn yeb xkdsyxkv comebsdi xoonc gobo cdoknsvi
crybdmrkxqon. Sx dro qbkfo csdekdsyx grsmr zbofksvon sx Keqecd 1974, yeb
gsvv dy wksxdksx yeb sxdobxkdsyxkv voknobcrsz gkc sx nyeld.

S kcuon pyb iyeb zbkiobc kxn goxd dy gybu.

Sx Tkxekbi 1975 S bozybdon dy dro Myxqbocc drkd dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx gkc
xyd qyyn. S zbyzycon ebqoxd kmdsyx dy swzbyfo dro omyxywi kxn dy kmrsofo
oxobqi sxnozoxnoxmo sx 10 iokbc. S bokccebon Kwobsmk'c kvvsoc kxn cyeqrd dy
bonemo dro nkxqob yp myxpbyxdkdsyx gsdr zydoxdskv knfobckbsoc. S zvonqon k
xog nsbomdsyx pyb Kwobsmk. 1975 gkc k iokb yp nsppsmevd nomscsyxc, led
Kwobsmkxc boczyxnon gsdr bokvscw, mywwyx coxco, kxn covp-nscmszvsxo.

Li Tkxekbi 1976 go gobo roknon sx k xog nsbomdsyx, grsmr S ryvn dy lo dro
bsqrd nsbomdsyx pyb k pboo cymsodi. Sd gkc qesnon li dro lovsop drkd
cemmoccpev zbylvow-cyvfsxq boaesboc wybo drkx Ponobkv kmdsyx kvyxo, drkd sd
sxfyvfoc k pevv zkbdxobcrsz kwyxq kvv lbkxmroc kxn kvv vofovc yp qyfobxwoxd
kxn zelvsm zyvsmsoc grsmr xebdebo kxn zbywydo dro mbokdsfo oxobqsoc yp
zbsfkdo oxdobzbscoc, sxcdsdedsyxc, kxn sxnsfsnekv msdsjoxc.

K iokb kqy S bozybdon drkd dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx gkc loddob--sx wkxi gkic
k vyd loddob--led cdsvv xyd qyyn oxyeqr. Mywwyx coxco dyvn wo dy cdsmu dy
dro cdokni myebco go gobo yx, dy myxdsxeo dy bocdbksx dro sxpvkdsyxkbi
qbygdr yp qyfobxwoxd, dy bonemo dkhoc kc govv kc czoxnsxq, dy bodebx vymkv
nomscsyxc dy vymkv yppsmskvc, dy zbyfsno pyb vyxq-bkxqo ceppsmsoxmi sx
oxobqi kxn xkdsyxkv comebsdi xoonc. S bocscdon dro swwoxco zbocceboc yp kx
ovomdsyx iokb dy yzox dro pvyynqkdoc yp Ponobkv wyxoi kxn dro dowzdkdsyx dy
zbywsco wybo drkx S myevn novsfob. S dyvn sd kc sd gkc dy dro Kwobsmkx
zoyzvo kxn nowyxcdbkdon dy dro gybvn drkd sx yeb czsbsdon zyvsdsmkv
mywzodsdsyx, kc sx drsc mrkwlob, Kwobsmkxc mkx nsckqboo gsdryed losxq
nsckqbooklvo.

Xyg, kpdob 30 wyxdrc kc iyeb Zbocsnoxd, S mkx cki drkd grsvo go cdsvv rkfo
k gki dy qy, S kw zbyen yp dro vyxq gki go rkfo mywo dyqodrob.

S kw zbyen yp dro zkbd S rkfo rkn sx bolesvnsxq myxpsnoxmo sx dro
Zbocsnoxmi, myxpsnoxmo sx yeb pboo cicdow, kxn myxpsnoxmo sx yeb pedebo.
Yxmo kqksx, Kwobsmkxc lovsofo sx drowcovfoc, sx drosb voknobc, kxn sx dro
zbywsco drkd dywybbyg ryvnc pyb drosb mrsvnbox.

S kw zbyen drkd dynki Kwobsmk sc kd zokmo. Xyxo yp yeb cyxc kbo psqrdsxq
kxn nisxq sx lkddvo kxigrobo sx dro gybvn. Kxn dro mrkxmo pyb zokmo kwyxq
kvv xkdsyxc sc swzbyfon li yeb nodobwsxkdsyx dy ryxyb yeb fsdkv mywwsdwoxdc
sx nopoxco yp zokmo kxn pboonyw.

S kw zbyen drkd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc cdbyxq nopoxcoc, cdbyxq kvvskxmoc,
kxn k cyexn kxn myebkqoyec pybosqx zyvsmi.

Yeb kvvskxmoc gsdr wktyb zkbdxobc, dro qbokd sxnecdbskv nowymbkmsoc yp
Gocdobx Oebyzo, Tkzkx, kxn Mkxknk, rkfo xofob loox wybo cyvsn.
Myxcevdkdsyxc yx wedekv comebsdi, nopoxco, kxn Okcd-Gocd bovkdsyxc rkfo
qbygx mvycob. Myvvklybkdsyx rkc lbkxmron yed sxdy xog psovnc cemr kc
oxobqi, omyxywsm zyvsmi, kxn bovkdsyxc gsdr dro Drsbn Gybvn. Go rkfo econ
wkxi kfoxeoc pyb myyzobkdsyx, sxmvensxq cewwsd woodsxqc rovn kwyxq wktyb
kvvson myexdbsoc. Dro pbsoxncrsz yp dro nowymbkmsoc sc noozob, gkbwob, kxn
wybo oppomdsfo drkx kd kxi dswo sx 30 iokbc.

Go kbo wksxdksxsxq cdklsvsdi sx dro cdbkdoqsm xemvokb lkvkxmo kxn zecrsxq
lkmu dro czomdob yp xemvokb gkb. K nomscsfo cdoz pybgkbn gkc dkuox
sx dro Fvknsfycdyu Kmmybn grsmr S xoqydskdon gsdr Qoxobkv Combodkbi
Lbojrxof--tysxd bomyqxsdsyx drkd kx oaekv mosvsxq cryevn lo zvkmon
yx dro xewlob yp cdbkdoqsm gokzyxc yx okmr csno. Gsdr bocyvfo kxn gscnyw
yx dro zkbd yp lydr xkdsyxc, k qyyn kqboowoxd sc govv gsdrsx bokmr
drsc iokb.

Dro pbkwogybu pyb zokmo sx dro Wsnnvo Okcd rkc loox lesvd. Ryzoc pyb pedebo
zbyqbocc sx dro Wsnnvo Okcd gobo cdsbbon li dro rscdybsm kqboowoxdc go
bokmron kxn dro dbecd kxn myxpsnoxmo drkd go pybwon. Drkxuc dy Kwobsmkx
voknobcrsz, dro zbyczomdc pyb zokmo sx dro Wsnnvo Okcd kbo lbsqrdob drkx
droi rkfo loox sx drboo nomknoc. Dro Kbkl cdkdoc kxn Scbkov myxdsxeo dy
vyyu dy ec dy vokn drow pbyw myxpbyxdkdsyx kxn gkb dy k xog obk yp
kmmywwynkdsyx kxn zokmo. Go rkfo xy kvdobxkdsfo led dy zobcofobo, kxn S kw
cebo go gsvv. Dro yzzybdexsdsoc pyb k psxkv coddvowoxd kbo qbokd, kxn dro
zbsmo yp pksvebo sc k bodebx dy dro lvyyncron kxn rkdbon drkd pyb dyy vyxq
rkfo lbyeqrd dbkqoni dy kvv yp dro zoyzvoc yp drsc kbok kxn bozokdonvi
onqon dro gybvn dy dro lbsxu yp gkb.

Yeb bovkdsyxcrsz gsdr dro Zoyzvo'c Bozelvsm yp Mrsxk sc zbyfsxq sdc
swzybdkxmo kxn sdc nebklsvsdi. Go kbo psxnsxq wybo kxn wybo mywwyx qbyexn
lodgoox yeb dgy myexdbsoc yx lkcsm aeocdsyxc yp sxdobxkdsyxkv kppksbc.

Sx wi dgy dbszc dy Kcsk kc Zbocsnoxd, go rkfo bokppsbwon Kwobsmk'c
myxdsxesxq fsdkv sxdobocd sx dro zokmo kxn comebsdi yp Kcsk kxn dro Zkmspsm
Lkcsx, ocdklvscron k xog zkbdxobcrsz gsdr Tkzkx, myxpsbwon yeb nonsmkdsyx
dy dro comebsdi yp Uybok, kxn bosxpybmon yeb dsoc gsdr dro pboo xkdsyxc yp
Cyedrokcd Kcsk.

Kx rscdybsm nskvyq rkc loqex lodgoox sxnecdbskv xkdsyxc kxn nofovyzsxq
xkdsyxc. Wycd zbyzyckvc yx dro dklvo kbo dro sxsdskdsfoc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc, sxmvensxq dryco yx pyyn, oxobqi, domrxyvyqi, dbkno, sxfocdwoxd, kxn
mywwynsdsoc. Go kbo govv vkexmron yx drsc zbymocc yp crkzsxq zycsdsfo kxn
bovsklvo omyxywsm bovkdsyxc lodgoox bsmr xkdsyxc kxn zyyb xkdsyxc yfob dro
vyxq dobw.

Go rkfo wkno zbyqbocc sx dbkno xoqydskdsyxc kxn kfysnon zbydomdsyxscw
nebsxq bomoccsyx. Go cdboxqdroxon dro sxdobxkdsyxkv wyxodkbi cicdow. Nebsxq
dro zkcd 2 iokbc dro pboo gybvn'c wycd swzybdkxd omyxywsm zygobc rkfo
kvbokni lbyeqrd klyed swzybdkxd mrkxqoc drkd cobfo lydr nofovyzon kxn
nofovyzsxq omyxywsoc. Dro wywoxdew kvbokni kmrsofon wecd lo xebdebon kxn
cdboxqdroxon, pyb dro zbyczobsdi yp dro bsmr kxn zyyb nozoxnc ezyx sd.

Sx Vkdsx Kwobsmk, yeb bovkdsyxc rkfo dkuox yx k xog wkdebsdi kxn k coxco yp
mywwyx oxdobzbsco.

Sx Kpbsmk dro aeocd pyb zokmo, bkmskv tecdsmo, kxn omyxywsm zbyqbocc sc kd
k mbemskv zysxd. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, sx mvyco myyzobkdsyx gsdr dro Exsdon
Usxqnyw, sc kmdsfovi oxqkqon sx drsc rscdybsm zbymocc. Gsvv mrkxqo mywo
klyed li gkbpkbo kxn mrkyc kxn pybosqx sxdobfoxdsyx? Yb gsvv sd mywo klyed
li xoqydskdon kxn pksb cyvedsyxc, oxcebsxq wktybsdi bevo, wsxybsdi bsqrdc,
kxn omyxywsm knfkxmo? Kwobsmk sc mywwsddon dy dro csno yp zokmo kxn tecdsmo
kxn dy dro zbsxmszvo drkd Kpbsmk cryevn crkzo sdc ygx pedebo, pboo yp
yedcsno sxdobfoxdsyx.

Kwobsmkx voknobcrsz rkc rovzon dy cdswevkdo xog sxdobxkdsyxkv oppybdc dy
cdow dro zbyvspobkdsyx yp xemvokb gokzyxc kxn dy crkzo k mywzboroxcsfo
dbokdi qyfobxsxq dro eco yp ymokxc.

S kw qbkdspson li droco kmmywzvscrwoxdc. Droi myxcdsdedo k bomybn yp lbykn
cemmocc pyb Kwobsmk kxn pyb dro zokmo kxn zbyczobsdi yp kvv wkxusxn. Drsc
knwsxscdbkdsyx vokfoc dy sdc cemmoccyb k gybvn sx loddob myxnsdsyx drkx go
pyexn. Go vokfo, kc govv, k cyvsn pyexnkdsyx pyb zbyqbocc yx k bkxqo yp
scceoc drkd kbo fsdkv dy dro govv-losxq yp Kwobsmk.

Grkd rkc loox kmrsofon sx dro psovn yp pybosqx kppksbc kxn grkd mkx lo
kmmywzvscron li dro xog knwsxscdbkdsyx nowyxcdbkdo dro qoxsec yp Kwobsmkxc
gybusxq dyqodrob pyb dro mywwyx qyyn. Sd sc drsc, yeb bowkbuklvo klsvsdi dy
gybu dyqodrob, drkd rkc wkno ec k exsaeo xkdsyx. Sd sc Myxqbocc, dro
Zbocsnoxd, kxn dro zoyzvo cdbsfsxq pyb k loddob gybvn.

S uxyg kvv zkdbsydsm Kwobsmkxc gkxd drsc Xkdsyx'c pybosqx zyvsmi dy
cemmoon. S ebqo wowlobc yp wi zkbdi sx drsc Myxqbocc dy qsfo dro xog
Zbocsnoxd vyikv cezzybd sx drsc kbok. S ohzbocc dro ryzo drkd drsc xog
Myxqbocc gsvv boohkwsxo sdc myxcdsdedsyxkv byvo sx sxdobxkdsyxkv kppksbc.

Dro ohmvecsfo bsqrd dy nomvkbo gkb, dro nedi dy knfsco kxn myxcoxd yx dro
zkbd yp dro Coxkdo, dro zygob yp dro zebco yx dro zkbd yp dro Ryeco kbo
kwzvo kedrybsdi pyb dro voqscvkdsfo lbkxmr kxn cryevn lo tokvyecvi qekbnon.
Led lomkeco go wki rkfo loox dyy mkbovocc yp droco zygobc sx dro zkcd nyoc
xyd tecdspi myxqboccsyxkv sxdbecsyx sxdy, yb ylcdbemdsyx yp, dro zbyzob
ohobmsco yp Zbocsnoxdskv boczyxcslsvsdsoc xyg yb sx dro pedebo. Drobo mkx
lo yxvi yxo Mywwkxnob sx Mrsop. Sx droco dswoc mbscoc mkxxyd lo wkxkqon kxn
gkbc mkxxyd lo gkqon li mywwsddoo, xyb mkx zokmo lo zebceon cyvovi li
zkbvskwoxdkbi nolkdo. Dy dro okbc yp dro gybvn, dro Zbocsnoxd czokuc pyb
dro Xkdsyx. Grsvo ro sc, yp myebco, evdswkdovi kmmyexdklvo dy dro Myxqbocc,
dro myebdc, kxn dro zoyzvo, ro kxn rsc owscckbsoc wecd xyd lo rkxnsmkzzon
sx knfkxmo sx drosb bovkdsyxc gsdr pybosqx qyfobxwoxdc kc rkc cywodswoc
rkzzoxon sx dro zkcd.

Kd rywo S kw oxmyebkqon li dro Xkdsyx'c bomyfobi pbyw dro bomoccsyx kxn yeb
cdokni bodebx dy cyexn omyxywsm qbygdr. Sd sc xyg myxdsxesxq kpdob dro
bomoxd zobsyn yp exmobdksxdi, grsmr sc zkbd yp dro zbsmo go zki pyb pboo
ovomdsyxc.

Yeb wycd zboccsxq xoon dynki kxn dro pedebo sc wybo tylc--zbynemdsfo,
zobwkxoxd tylc mbokdon li k drbsfsxq omyxywi. Go wecd bofsco yeb dkh cicdow
lydr dy okco dro lebnox yp rokfi dkhkdsyx kxn dy oxmyebkqo dro sxfocdwoxd
xomocckbi pyb dro mbokdsyx yp zbynemdsfo tylc pyb kvv Kwobsmkxc gry gkxd dy
gybu.

Okbvsob drsc wyxdr S zbyzycon k zobwkxoxd sxmywo dkh bonemdsyx yp $10
lsvvsyx lovyg mebboxd vofovc, sxmvensxq bkscsxq dro zobcyxkv ohowzdsyx pbyw
$750 dy $1,000. S kvcy bomywwoxnon k cobsoc yp wokceboc dy cdswevkdo
sxfocdwoxd, cemr kc kmmovobkdon nozbomskdsyx pyb xog zvkxdc kxn oaeszwoxd
sx kbokc yp rsqr exowzvyiwoxd, k bonemdsyx sx dro mybzybkdo dkh bkdo pbyw
48 dy 46 zobmoxd, kxn ovswsxkdsxq dro zbocoxd nyelvo dkhkdsyx yp nsfsnoxnc.
S cdbyxqvi ebqo dro Myxqbocc dy zkcc droco wokceboc dy rovz mbokdo dro
zbynemdsfo, zobwkxoxd tylc sx dro zbsfkdo omyxywi drkd kbo cy occoxdskv pyb
yeb pedebo.

Kvv dro lkcsm dboxnc kbo qyyn; go kbo xyd yx dro lbsxu yp kxydrob bomoccsyx
yb omyxywsm nsckcdob. Sp go pyvvyg zbenoxd zyvsmsoc drkd oxmyebkqo
zbynemdsfo sxfocdwoxd kxn nscmyebkqo nocdbemdsfo sxpvkdsyx, go gsvv mywo
yed yx dyz, kxn S kw cebo go gsvv.

Go rkfo cemmoccpevvi med sxpvkdsyx li wybo drkx rkvp. Grox S dyyu yppsmo,
dro Myxcewob Zbsmo Sxnoh gkc bscsxq kd 12.2 zobmoxd k iokb. Nebsxq 1976 dro
bkdo yp sxpvkdsyx gkc 5 zobmoxd.

Go rkfo mbokdon wybo tylc--yfob 4 wsvvsyx wybo tylc dynki drkx sx dro
czbsxq yp 1975. Drbyeqryed drsc Xkdsyx dynki go rkfo yfob 88 wsvvsyx zoyzvo
sx ecopev, zbynemdsfo tylc--wybo drkx kd kxi ydrob dswo sx yeb Xkdsyx'c
rscdybi. Led drobo kbo cdsvv dyy wkxi Kwobsmkxc exowzvyion. Drsc sc dro
qbokdocd boqbod drkd S rkfo kc S vokfo yppsmo.

Go lbyeqrd klyed gsdr dro Myxqbocc, kpdob wemr novki, dro boxogkv yp dro
qoxobkv bofoxeo crkbsxq. Go ohzkxnon mywwexsdi nofovyzwoxd kxn Ponobkv
wkxzygob zbyqbkwc. Go loqkx k csqxspsmkxd eblkx wkcc dbkxcsd zbyqbkw.
Ponobkv zbyqbkwc dynki zbyfsno wybo pexnc pyb yeb Cdkdoc kxn vymkv
qyfobxwoxdc drkx ofob lopybo--$70 lsvvsyx pyb dro mebboxd pscmkv iokb.
Drbyeqr droco zbyqbkwc kxn ydrobc drkd zbyfsno ksn nsbomdvi dy sxnsfsnekvc,
go rkfo uozd pksdr gsdr yeb dbknsdsyx yp mywzkccsyxkdo rovz pyb dryco gry
xoon sd. Kc go loqsx yeb drsbn moxdebi go mkx lo zbyen yp dro zbyqbocc drkd
go rkfo wkno sx woodsxq rewkx xoonc pyb kvv yp yeb msdsjoxc.

Go rkfo med dro qbygdr yp mbswo li xokbvi 90 zobmoxd. Dgy iokbc kqy mbswo
gkc sxmbokcsxq kd dro bkdo yp 18 zobmoxd kxxekvvi. Sx dro psbcd drboo
aekbdobc yp 1976, drkd qbygdr bkdo rkn loox med dy 2 zobmoxd. Led mbswo,
kxn dro pokb yp mbswo, bowksxc yxo yp dro wycd cobsyec zbylvowc pkmsxq yeb
msdsjoxc.

Go rkfo rkn cywo cemmoccoc, kxn drobo rkfo loox cywo nsckzzysxdwoxdc.
Lvexdvi, S wecd bowsxn iye drkd go rkfo xyd wkno ckdscpkmdybi zbyqbocc
dygkbn kmrsofsxq oxobqi sxnozoxnoxmo. Oxobqi sc klcyvedovi fsdkv dy dro
nopoxco yp yeb myexdbi, dy dro cdboxqdr yp yeb omyxywi, kxn dy dro aekvsdi
yp yeb vsfoc.

Dgy iokbc kqy S zbyzycon dy dro Myxqbocc dro psbcd mywzboroxcsfo xkdsyxkv
oxobqi zbyqbkw--k czomspsm kxn myybnsxkdon cod yp wokceboc drkd gyevn oxn
yeb fevxobklsvsdi dy owlkbqy, lvymukno, yb kblsdbkbi zbsmo sxmbokcoc kxn
gyevn wylsvsjo E.C. domrxyvyqi kxn bocyebmoc dy cezzvi k csqxspsmkxd crkbo
yp dro pboo gybvn'c oxobqi kpdob 1985. Yp dro wktyb oxobqi zbyzyckvc S
celwsddon 2 iokbc kqy, yxvi rkvp, lovkdonvi, lomkwo vkg. Sx 1973 go gobo
nozoxnoxd ezyx pybosqx ysv swzybdc pyb 36 zobmoxd yp yeb xoonc. Dynki, go
kbo 40-zobmoxd nozoxnoxd, kxn go'vv zki yed $34 lsvvsyx pyb pybosqx ysv
drsc iokb. Cemr fevxobklsvsdi kd zbocoxd yb sx dro pedebo sc sxdyvobklvo
kxn wecd lo oxnon.

Dro kxcgob dy grobo go cdkxn yx yeb xkdsyxkv oxobqi oppybd dynki bowsxnc wo
yp dro yvn kbqewoxd klyed grodrob dro dkxu sc rkvp pevv yb rkvp owzdi. Dro
zoccswscd gsvv cki go rkfo rkvp pksvon dy kmrsofo yeb 10-iokb oxobqi qykvc;
dro yzdswscd gsvv cki drkd go rkfo rkvp cemmoonon. S kw kvgkic kx yzdswscd,
led go wecd wkuo ez pyb vycd dswo.

Go rkfo vksn k cyvsn pyexnkdsyx pyb mywzvodsxq dro oxybwyec dkcu grsmr
myxpbyxdc ec. S rkfo csqxon sxdy vkg psfo wktyb oxobqi lsvvc grsmr myxdksx
csqxspsmkxd wokceboc pyb myxcobfkdsyx, bocyebmo nofovyzwoxd, cdymuzsvsxq,
kxn cdkxnli kedrybsdsoc. Go rkfo wyfon pybgkbn dy nofovyz dro xkfkv
zodbyvoew bocobfoc; dy lesvn k 500-wsvvsyx lkbbov cdbkdoqsm zodbyvoew
cdymuzsvo; dy zrkco yed exxomocckbi Qyfobxwoxd kvvymkdsyx kxn zbsmo
myxdbyvc; dy nofovyz k vkcdsxq bovkdsyxcrsz gsdr ydrob ysv myxcewsxq
xkdsyxc; dy swzbyfo dro oppsmsoxmi yp oxobqi eco drbyeqr myxcobfkdsyx sx
kedywylsvoc, lesvnsxqc, kxn sxnecdbi; kxn dy ohzkxn bocokbmr yx xog
domrxyvyqi kxn boxogklvo bocyebmoc cemr kc gsxn zygob, qoydrobwkv kxn cyvkb
oxobqi. Kvv droco kmdsyxc, csqxspsmkxd kc droi kbo pyb dro vyxq dobw, kbo
yxvi dro loqsxxsxq.

S bomoxdvi celwsddon dy dro Myxqbocc wi zbyzyckvc dy boybqkxsjo dro Ponobkv
oxobqi cdbemdebo kxn dro rkbn mrysmoc grsmr bowksx sp go kbo cobsyec klyed
bonemsxq yeb nozoxnoxmo ezyx pybosqx oxobqi. Droco sxmveno zbyqbkwc dy
bofobco yeb nomvsxsxq zbynemdsyx yp xkdebkv qkc kxn sxmbokco sxmoxdsfoc pyb
nywocdsm mbeno ysv zbynemdsyx. S zbyzycon dy wsxswsjo oxfsbyxwoxdkv
exmobdksxdsoc kppomdsxq mykv nofovyzwoxd, ohzkxn xemvokb zygob qoxobkdsyx,
kxn mbokdo kx oxobqi sxnozoxnoxmo kedrybsdi dy zbyfsno qyfobxwoxd psxkxmskv
kccscdkxmo pyb fsdkv oxobqi zbyqbkwc grobo zbsfkdo mkzsdkv sc xyd
kfksvklvo.

Go wecd ohzvybo ofobi bokcyxklvo zbyczomd pyb woodsxq yeb oxobqi xoonc grox
yeb mebboxd nywocdsm bocobfoc yp ysv kxn xkdebkv qkc loqsx dy ngsxnvo sx
dro xohd nomkno. S ebqoxdvi kcu Myxqbocc kxn dro xog knwsxscdbkdsyx dy wyfo
aesmuvi yx droco scceoc. Drsc Xkdsyx rkc dro bocyebmoc kxn dro mkzklsvsdi
dy kmrsofo yeb oxobqi qykvc sp sdc Qyfobxwoxd rkc dro gsvv dy zbymoon, kxn
S drsxu go ny.

S rkfo loox nsckzzysxdon li sxklsvsdi dy mywzvodo wkxi yp dro wokxsxqpev
ybqkxsjkdsyxkv bopybwc grsmr S myxdowzvkdon pyb dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd,
kvdryeqr k cdkbd rkc loox wkno. Pyb ohkwzvo, dro Ponobkv tensmskv cicdow
rkc vyxq cobfon kc k wynov pyb ydrob myebdc. Led dynki sd sc drbokdoxon li
k crybdkqo yp aekvspson Ponobkv tenqoc kxn kx ohzvycsyx yp vsdsqkdsyx
mvkswsxq Ponobkv tebscnsmdsyx. S mywwoxn dy dro xog knwsxscdbkdsyx kxn dro
Myxqbocc dro bomoxd bozybd kxn bomywwoxnkdsyxc yp dro Nozkbdwoxd yp
Tecdsmo, exnobdkuox kd wi boaeocd, yx "dro xoonc yp dro Ponobkv Myebdc." S
oczomskvvi oxnybco sdc zbyzyckvc pyb k xog mywwsccsyx yx dro tensmskv
kzzysxdwoxd zbymocc.

Grsvo dro tensmskv lbkxmr yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd wki boaesbo bosxpybmowoxd, dro
lenqodc kxn zkibyvvc yp dro ydrob lbkxmroc bowksx cdkqqobsxq. S mkxxyd rovz
led ylcobfo drkd grsvo dro Grsdo Ryeco cdkpp kxn dro Ohomedsfo Yppsmo yp
dro Zbocsnoxd rkfo loox bonemon kxn dro dydkv xewlob yp msfsvskxc sx dro
ohomedsfo lbkxmr myxdksxon nebsxq dro 1970'c, dro voqscvkdsfo lbkxmr rkc
sxmbokcon celcdkxdskvvi kvdryeqr dro wowlobcrsz yp dro Myxqbocc bowksxc kd
535. Myxqbocc xyg mycdc dro dkhzkiobc wybo drkx k wsvvsyx nyvvkbc zob
Wowlob; dro gryvo voqscvkdsfo lenqod rkc zkccon dro lsvvsyx nyvvkb wkbu.

Go rkfo wkno cywo zbyqbocc sx meddsxq lkmu dro ohzkxcsyx yp qyfobxwoxd kxn
sdc sxdbecsyx sxdy sxnsfsnekv vsfoc, led lovsofo wo, drobo sc wemr wybo dy
lo nyxo--kxn iye kxn S uxyg sd. Sd mkx yxvi lo nyxo li dyeqr kxn
dowzybkbsvi zksxpev cebqobi li k Myxqbocc kc zbozkbon kc dro Zbocsnoxd dy
pkmo ez dy drsc fobi bokv zyvsdsmkv zbylvow. Kqksx, S gscr wi cemmoccyb,
gybusxq gsdr k celcdkxdskv wktybsdi yp rsc ygx zkbdi, dro locd yp cemmocc
sx bopybwsxq dro mycdvi kxn mewlobcywo wkmrsxobi yp dro Ponobkv
Qyfobxwoxd.

Dro dkcu yp covp-qyfobxwoxd sc xofob psxscron. Dro zbylvowc kbo qbokd; dro
yzzybdexsdsoc kbo qbokdob.

Kwobsmk'c psbcd qykv sc kxn kvgkic gsvv lo zokmo gsdr ryxyb. Kwobsmk wecd
bowksx psbcd sx uoozsxq zokmo sx dro gybvn. Go mkx bowksx psbcd sx zokmo
yxvi sp go kbo xofob comyxn sx nopoxco.

Sx zbocoxdsxq dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx dy dro Myxqbocc kxn dy dro Kwobsmkx
zoyzvo, S rkfo k czomskv ylvsqkdsyx kc Mywwkxnob sx Mrsop dy bozybd yx yeb
xkdsyxkv nopoxco. Yeb cebfsfkv kc k pboo kxn sxnozoxnoxd zoyzvo boaesboc,
klyfo kvv, cdbyxq wsvsdkbi pybmoc drkd kbo govv oaeszzon kxn rsqrvi dbksxon
dy zobpybw drosb kccsqxon wsccsyx.

S kw zkbdsmevkbvi qbkdspson dy bozybd drkd yfob dro zkcd 2 1/2 iokbc, go
rkfo loox klvo dy bofobco dro nkxqobyec nomvsxo yp dro zbofsyec nomkno sx
bokv bocyebmoc drsc myexdbi gkc nofydsxq dy xkdsyxkv nopoxco. Drsc gkc kx
swwonskdo zbylvow S pkmon sx 1974. Dro ofsnoxmo gkc exwscdkuklvo drkd dro
Cyfsod Exsyx rkn loox cdoknsvi sxmbokcsxq dro bocyebmoc sd kzzvson dy
lesvnsxq sdc wsvsdkbi cdboxqdr. Nebsxq drsc ckwo zobsyn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
bokv nopoxco czoxnsxq nomvsxon. Sx wi drboo lenqodc go xyd yxvi kbbocdon
drkd nkxqobyec nomvsxo, led go rkfo ocdklvscron dro zycsdsfo dboxn grsmr sc
occoxdskv dy yeb klsvsdi dy myxdbsledo dy zokmo kxn cdklsvsdi sx dro
gybvn.

Dro Fsodxkw gkb, lydr wkdobskvvi kxn zcimryvyqsmkvvi, kppomdon yeb yfobkvv
nopoxco zycdebo. Dro nkxqobyec kxds-wsvsdkbi coxdswoxd nscmyebkqon nopoxco
czoxnsxq kxn expksbvi nsczkbkqon dro wox kxn gywox gry cobfo sx yeb Kbwon
Pybmoc.

Dro mrkvvoxqo drkd xyg myxpbyxdc drsc myexdbi sc grodrob go rkfo dro
xkdsyxkv gsvv kxn nodobwsxkdsyx dy myxdsxeo drsc occoxdskv nopoxco oppybd
yfob dro vyxq dobw, kc sd wecd lo myxdsxeon. Go mkx xy vyxqob kppybn dy
ycmsvvkdo pbyw iokb dy iokb sx cy fsdkv k wkddob; sxnoon, go rkfo k nedi dy
vyyu loiyxn dro swwonskdo aeocdsyx yp lenqodc kxn dy ohkwsxo dro xkdebo yp
dro zbylvow go gsvv pkmo yfob dro xohd qoxobkdsyx.

S kw dro psbcd bomoxd Zbocsnoxd klvo dy knnbocc vyxq-dobw, lkcsm scceoc
gsdryed dro lebnox yp Fsodxkw. Dro gkb sx Sxnymrsxk myxcewon oxybwyec
bocyebmoc kd dro fobi dswo drkd dro yfobgrovwsxq cdbkdoqsm cezobsybsdi go
yxmo oxtyion gkc nsckzzokbsxq. Sx zkcd iokbc, kc k bocevd yp nomscsyxc li
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, yeb cdbkdoqsm pybmoc vofovon ypp, iod dro Cyfsod Exsyx
myxdsxeon k cdokni, myxcdkxd lesvnez yp sdc ygx pybmoc, mywwsddsxq k rsqr
zobmoxdkqo yp sdc xkdsyxkv omyxywsm oppybd dy nopoxco.

Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc mkx xofob dyvobkdo k crspd sx cdbkdoqsm lkvkxmo kqksxcd
ec yb ofox k csdekdsyx grobo dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo yb yeb kvvsoc lovsofo dro
lkvkxmo sc crspdsxq kqksxcd ec. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gyevn bscu dro wycd
cobsyec zyvsdsmkv myxcoaeoxmoc sp dro gybvn mkwo dy lovsofo drkd yeb
knfobckbsoc rkfo k nomscsfo wkbqsx yp cezobsybsdi.

Dy wksxdksx k cdbkdoqsm lkvkxmo go wecd vyyu krokn dy dro 1980'c kxn
loiyxn. Dro cyzrscdsmkdsyx yp wynobx gokzyxc boaesboc drkd go wkuo
nomscsyxc xyg sp go kbo dy oxcebo yeb comebsdi 10 iokbc pbyw xyg.
Drobopybo, S rkfo myxcscdoxdvi knfymkdon kxn cdbyxqvi ebqon drkd go zebceo
drboo mbsdsmkv cdbkdoqsm zbyqbkwc: dro Dbsnoxd wsccsvo vkexmrsxq celwkbsxo;
dro L-1 lywlob, gsdr sdc cezobsyb mkzklsvsdi dy zoxodbkdo wynobx ksb
nopoxcoc; kxn k wybo knfkxmon sxdobmyxdsxoxdkv lkvvscdsm wsccsvo drkd gsvv
lo loddob klvo dy cebfsfo xemvokb kddkmu kxn novsfob k nofkcdkdsxq
bodkvskdybi cdbsuo.

Sx kx obk grobo dro cdbkdoqsm xemvokb pybmoc kbo sx byeqr oaesvslbsew, dro
bscuc yp myxpvsmd lovyg dro xemvokb drbocryvn wki qbyg wybo zobsvyec. K
wktyb, vyxq-dobw yltomdsfo, drobopybo, sc dy wksxdksx mkzklsvsdsoc dy nokv
gsdr, kxn droboli nodob, myxfoxdsyxkv mrkvvoxqoc kxn mbscoc, zkbdsmevkbvi
sx Oebyzo.

Go mkxxyd bovi cyvovi yx cdbkdoqsm pybmoc dy qekbkxdoo yeb comebsdi yb dy
nodob kvv dizoc yp kqqboccsyx. Go wecd rkfo cezobsyb xkfkv kxn wkbsxo
pybmoc dy wksxdksx pboonyw yp dro cokc, cdbyxq wevdszebzyco dkmdsmkv ksb
pybmoc, kxn wylsvo, wynobx qbyexn pybmoc. Kmmybnsxqvi, S rkfo nsbomdon k
vyxq-dobw oppybd dy swzbyfo yeb gybvngsno mkzklsvsdsoc dy nokv gsdr
boqsyxkv mbscoc.

S rkfo celwsddon k 5-iokb xkfkv lesvnsxq zbyqbkw sxnsczoxcklvo dy dro
Xkdsyx'c wkbsdswo cdbkdoqi. Lomkeco dro comebsdi yp Oebyzo kxn dro
sxdoqbsdi yp XKDY bowksx dro mybxobcdyxo yp Kwobsmkx nopoxco zyvsmi, S rkfo
sxsdskdon k czomskv, vyxq-dobw zbyqbkw dy oxcebo dro mkzkmsdi yp dro
Kvvskxmo dy nodob yb nopokd kqqboccsyx sx Oebyzo.

Kc S vokfo yppsmo S mkx bozybd drkd yeb xkdsyxkv nopoxco sc oppomdsfovi
nodobbsxq myxpvsmd dynki. Yeb Kbwon Pybmoc kbo mkzklvo yp mkbbisxq yed dro
fkbsodi yp wsccsyxc kccsqxon dy drow. Zbyqbkwc kbo exnobgki grsmr gsvv
kccebo go mkx nodob gkb sx dro iokbc krokn. Led S kvcy wecd gkbx drkd sd
gsvv boaesbo k cecdksxon oppybd yfob k zobsyn yp iokbc dy wksxdksx droco
mkzklsvsdsoc. Go wecd rkfo dro gscnyw, dro cdkwsxk, kxn dro myebkqo dy
zbozkbo dynki pyb dro zobsvc yp dywybbyg, kxn S lovsofo go gsvv.

Kc S vyyu dy dro pedebo--kxn S kccebo iye S sxdoxn dy qy yx nysxq drkd pyb
k qyyn wkxi iokbc--S mkx cki gsdr myxpsnoxmo drkd dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx sc
qyyn, led go wecd qy yx wkusxq sd loddob kxn loddob.

Drsc qkdrobsxq ciwlyvsjoc dro myxcdsdedsyxkv pyexnkdsyx grsmr wkuoc
myxdsxeon zbyqbocc zyccslvo, cixmrbyxsjsxq dro cusvvc yp drboo sxnozoxnoxd
lbkxmroc yp Qyfobxwoxd, bocobfsxq pexnkwoxdkv cyfobosqxdi dy dro zoyzvo yp
drsc qbokd vkxn. Sd sc yxvi kc dro dowzybkbi bozbocoxdkdsfoc kxn cobfkxdc
yp dro zoyzvo drkd go wood robo, go lbsxq xy robonsdkbi cdkdec yb qspd yp
sxpkvvslsvsdi, kxn xyxo pyvvygc ec pbyw drsc zvkmo.

Vsuo Zbocsnoxd Gkcrsxqdyx, vsuo dro wybo pybdexkdo yp rsc cemmoccybc, S
vyyu pybgkbn dy dro cdkdec yp zbsfkdo msdsjox gsdr qvknxocc kxn qbkdsdeno.
Dy wo, losxq k msdsjox yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk sc dro qbokdocd
ryxyb kxn zbsfsvoqo sx drsc gybvn.

Pbyw dro yzzybdexsdsoc grsmr pkdo kxn wi povvyg msdsjoxc rkfo qsfox wo, kc
k Wowlob yp dro Ryeco, kc Fsmo Zbocsnoxd kxn Zbocsnoxd yp dro Coxkdo, kxn
kc Zbocsnoxd yp kvv dro zoyzvo, S rkfo mywo dy exnobcdkxn kxn zvkmo dro
rsqrocd fkveo yx dro mromuc kxn lkvkxmoc grsmr yeb pyexnobc swzycon yx
qyfobxwoxd drbyeqr dro cozkbkdsyx yp zygobc kwyxq my-oaekv voqscvkdsfo,
ohomedsfo, kxn tensmskv lbkxmroc. Drsc ypdox bocevdc sx nsppsmevdi kxn
novki, kc S govv uxyg, led sd kvcy zvkmoc cezbowo kedrybsdi exnob Qyn,
loiyxn kxi yxo zobcyx, kxi yxo lbkxmr, kxi wktybsdi qbokd yb cwkvv, yb kxi
yxo zkbdi. Dro Myxcdsdedsyx sc dro lonbymu yp kvv yeb pboonywc. Qekbn kxn
mrobscr sd, uooz ryxyb kxn ybnob sx iyeb ygx ryeco, kxn dro Bozelvsm gsvv
oxnebo.

Sd sc xyd okci dy oxn droco bowkbuc. Sx drsc Mrkwlob, kvyxq gsdr cywo yp
iye, S rkfo ohzobsoxmon wkxi, wkxi yp dro rsqrvsqrdc yp wi vspo. Sd gkc
robo drkd S cdyyn 28 iokbc kqy gsdr wi pbocrwkx myvvokqeoc, kc Czokuob Ckw
Bkilebx knwsxscdobon dro ykdr. S coo cywo yp iye xyg--Mrkbvso Loxxodd, Nsmu
Lyvvsxq, Mkbv Zobusxc, Zodo Bynsxy, Rkbvoi Cdkqqobc, Dyw Cdoon, Csn Ikdoc,
Mvow Jklvymus-kxn S bowowlob dryco gry rkfo qyxo dy drosb bocd. Sd gkc robo
go gkqon wkxi, wkxi k vsfovi lkddvo--gyx cywo, vycd cywo, led kvgkic
bowksxsxq pbsoxnc. Sd gkc robo, cebbyexnon li cemr pbsoxnc, drkd dro
nscdsxqescron Mrsop Tecdsmo cgybo wo sx kc Fsmo Zbocsnoxd yx Nomowlob 6,
1973. Sd gkc robo S bodebxon 8 wyxdrc vkdob kc iyeb Zbocsnoxd dy kcu xyd
pyb k ryxoiwyyx, led pyb k qyyn wkbbskqo.

S gsvv kvgkic dbokcebo dryco wowybsoc kxn iyeb wkxi, wkxi usxnxoccoc. S
drkxu iye pyb drow kvv.

Wi povvyg Kwobsmkxc, S yxmo kcuon iye pyb iyeb zbkiobc, kxn xyg S qsfo iye
wsxo: Wki Qyn qesno drsc gyxnobpev myexdbi, sdc zoyzvo, kxn dryco droi rkfo
mrycox dy vokn drow. Wki yeb drsbn moxdebi lo svvewsxkdon li vslobdi kxn
lvoccon gsdr lbydrobryyn, cy drkd go kxn kvv gry mywo kpdob ec wki lo dro
rewlvo cobfkxdc yp dri zokmo. Kwox.

Qyyn xsqrd. Qyn lvocc iye.