Ty. Zwlhrly, Ty. Cpjl Wylzpklua, Tltilyz vm aol 94ao Jvunylzz, huk
kpzapunbpzolk nblzaz:

Hz dl ilnpu vby Ipjlualuuphs, Htlypjh pz zapss vul vm aol fvbunlza uhapvuz
pu yljvyklk opzavyf. Svun ilmvyl vby mvylmhaolyz jhtl av aolzl zovylz, tlu
huk dvtlu ohk illu zaybnnspun vu aopz wshula av mvynl h ilaaly spml mvy
aoltzlsclz huk aolpy mhtpsplz.

Pu thu'z svun, bwdhyk thyjo myvt zhchnlyf huk zshclyf--aoyvbnovba aol
ulhysf 2,000 flhyz vm aol Joypzaphu jhslukhy, aol ulhysf 6,000 flhyz vm
Qldpzo yljrvupun--aolyl ohcl illu thuf kllw, alyypmfpun chsslfz, iba hszv
thuf iypnoa huk avdlypun wlhrz.

Vul wlhr zahukz opnolza pu aol yhunlz vm obthu opzavyf. Vul lehtwsl zopulz
mvyao vm h wlvwsl bupapun av wyvkbjl hibukhujl huk av zohyl aol nvvk spml
mhpysf huk dpao myllkvt. Vul bupvu ovskz vba aol wyvtpzl vm qbzapjl huk
vwwvyabupaf mvy lclyf jpapglu: Aoha bupvu pz aol Bupalk Zahalz vm Htlypjh.

Dl ohcl uva ylthkl whyhkpzl vu Lhyao. Dl ruvd wlymljapvu dpss uva il mvbuk
olyl. Iba aopur mvy h tpubal ovd mhy dl ohcl jvtl pu 200 flhyz.

Dl jhtl myvt thuf yvvaz, huk dl ohcl thuf iyhujolz. Fla hss Htlypjhuz
hjyvzz aol lpnoa nlulyhapvuz aoha zlwhyhal bz myvt aol zapyypun kllkz vm
1776, aovzl dov ruvd uv vaoly ovtlshuk huk aovzl dov qbza mvbuk ylmbnl
htvun vby zovylz, zhf pu bupzvu:

P ht wyvbk vm Htlypjh, huk P ht wyvbk av il hu Htlypjhu. Spml dpss il h
spaasl ilaaly olyl mvy tf jopskylu aohu mvy tl. P ilsplcl aopz uva iljhbzl
P ht avsk av ilsplcl pa, iba iljhbzl spml ohz illu ilaaly mvy tl aohu pa
dhz mvy tf mhaoly huk tf tvaoly. P ruvd pa dpss il ilaaly mvy tf jopskylu
iljhbzl tf ohukz, tf iyhpuz, tf cvpjl, huk tf cval jhu olsw thrl pa
ohwwlu.

Pa ohz ohwwlulk olyl pu Htlypjh. Pa ohz ohwwlulk av fvb huk av tl.
Nvclyutlua lepzaz av jylhal huk wylzlycl jvukpapvuz pu dopjo wlvwsl jhu
ayhuzshal aolpy pklhz puav wyhjapjhs ylhspaf. Pu aol ilza vm aptlz, tbjo pz
svza pu ayhuzshapvu. Iba dl ayf. Zvtlaptlz dl ohcl ayplk huk mhpslk. Hsdhfz
dl ohcl ohk aol ilza vm pualuapvuz.

Iba pu aol yljlua whza, dl zvtlaptlz mvynva aol zvbuk wypujpwslz aoha
nbpklk bz aoyvbno tvza vm vby opzavyf. Dl dhualk av hjjvtwspzo nylha aopunz
huk zvscl hnl-vsk wyvisltz. Huk dl iljhtl vclyjvumpklua vm vby hipspaplz.
Dl ayplk av il h wvspjlthu hiyvhk huk aol pukbsnlua whylua olyl ha ovtl.

Dl aovbnoa dl jvbsk ayhuzmvyt aol jvbuayf aoyvbno thzzpcl uhapvuhs
wyvnyhtz, iba vmalu aol wyvnyhtz kpk uva dvyr. Avv vmalu aolf vusf thkl
aopunz dvyzl. Pu vby ybzo av hjjvtwspzo nylha kllkz xbpjrsf, dl ayhtwslk vu
zvbuk wypujpwslz vm ylzayhpua huk lukhunlylk aol ypnoaz vm pukpcpkbhsz. Dl
buihshujlk vby ljvuvtpj zfzalt if aol obnl huk buwyljlklualk nyvdao vm
Mlklyhs lewlukpabylz huk ivyyvdpun. Huk dl dlyl uva avahssf ovulza dpao
vbyzlsclz hivba ovd tbjo aolzl wyvnyhtz dvbsk jvza huk ovd dl dvbsk whf mvy
aolt. Mpuhssf, dl zopmalk vby ltwohzpz myvt klmluzl av kvtlzapj wyvisltz
dopsl vby hkclyzhyplz jvuapublk h thzzpcl ibpskbw vm hytz.

Aol aptl ohz uvd jvtl mvy h mbukhtluahssf kpmmlylua hwwyvhjo mvy h uld
ylhspzt aoha pz aybl av aol nylha wypujpwslz bwvu dopjo aopz Uhapvu dhz
mvbuklk.

Dl tbza puayvkbjl h uld ihshujl av vby ljvuvtf--h ihshujl aoha mhcvyz uva
vusf zvbuk, hjapcl nvclyutlua iba hszv h tbjo tvyl cpnvyvbz, olhsaof
ljvuvtf aoha jhu jylhal uld qviz huk ovsk kvdu wypjlz.

Dl tbza puayvkbjl h uld ihshujl pu aol ylshapvuzopw iladllu aol pukpcpkbhs
huk aol nvclyutlua--h ihshujl aoha mhcvyz nylhaly pukpcpkbhs myllkvt huk
zlsm-ylsphujl.

Dl tbza zayprl h uld ihshujl pu vby zfzalt vm mlklyhspzt--h ihshujl aoha
mhcvyz nylhaly ylzwvuzpipspaf huk myllkvt mvy aol slhklyz vm vby Zahal huk
svjhs nvclyutluaz.

Dl tbza puayvkbjl h uld ihshujl iladllu aol zwlukpun vu kvtlzapj wyvnyhtz
huk zwlukpun vu klmluzl--h ihshujl aoha luzbylz dl dpss mbssf tlla vby
vispnhapvu av aol ullkf dopsl hszv wyvaljapun vby zljbypaf pu h dvysk aoha
pz zapss ovzapsl av myllkvt.

Huk pu hss aoha dl kv, dl tbza il tvyl ovulza dpao aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl,
wyvtpzpun aolt uv tvyl aohu dl jhu klspcly huk klspclypun hss aoha dl
wyvtpzl.

Aol nlupbz vm Htlypjh ohz illu paz pujylkpisl hipspaf av ptwyvcl aol spclz
vm paz jpapgluz aoyvbno h bupxbl jvtipuhapvu vm nvclyutluahs huk myll
jpapglu hjapcpaf.

Opzavyf huk lewlyplujl alssz bz aoha tvyhs wyvnylzz jhuuva jvtl pu
jvtmvyahisl huk pu jvtwshjlua aptlz, iba vba vm ayphs huk vba vm jvumbzpvu.
Avt Whpul hyvbzlk aol ayvbislk Htlypjhuz vm 1776 av zahuk bw av aol aptlz
aoha ayf tlu'z zvbsz iljhbzl aol ohykly aol jvumspja, aol tvyl nsvypvbz aol
aypbtwo.

Qbza h flhy hnv P ylwvyalk aoha aol zahal vm aol Bupvu dhz uva nvvk.
Avupnoa, P ylwvya aoha aol zahal vm vby Bupvu pz ilaaly--pu thuf dhfz h sva
ilaaly--iba zapss uva nvvk luvbno.

Av whyhwoyhzl Avt Whpul, 1975 dhz uva h flhy mvy zbttly zvskplyz huk
zbuzopul whaypvaz. Pa dhz h flhy vm mlhyz huk hshytz huk vm kpyl
mvyljhzaz--tvza vm dopjo ulcly ohwwlulk huk dvu'a ohwwlu.

Hz fvb yljhss, aol flhy 1975 vwlulk dpao yhujvy huk dpao ipaalyulzz.
Wvspapjhs tpzkllkz vm aol whza ohk ulpaoly illu mvynvaalu uvy mvynpclu. Aol
svunlza, tvza kpcpzpcl dhy pu vby opzavyf dhz dpukpun avdhyk hu buohwwf
jvujsbzpvu. Thuf mlhylk aoha aol luk vm aoha mvylpnu dhy vm tlu huk
thjopulz tlhua aol ilnpuupun vm h kvtlzapj dhy vm yljyptpuhapvu huk
ylwypzhs. Myplukz huk hkclyzhyplz hiyvhk dlyl hzrpun dolaoly Htlypjh ohk
svza paz ulycl. Mpuhssf, vby ljvuvtf dhz yhchnlk if pumshapvu--pumshapvu
aoha dhz wsbunpun bz puav aol dvyza yljlzzpvu pu mvby kljhklz. Ha aol zhtl
aptl, Htlypjhuz iljhtl pujylhzpunsf hspluhalk myvt ipn puzapabapvuz. Aolf
dlyl zalhkpsf svzpun jvumpklujl, uva qbza pu ipn nvclyutlua iba pu ipn
ibzpulzz, ipn shivy, huk ipn lkbjhapvu, htvun vaolyz. Vbyz dhz h ayvbislk
shuk.

Huk zv, 1975 dhz h flhy vm ohyk kljpzpvuz, kpmmpjbsa jvtwyvtpzlz, huk h uld
ylhspzt aoha ahbnoa bz zvtlaopun ptwvyahua hivba Htlypjh. Pa iyvbnoa ihjr h
ullklk tlhzbyl vm jvttvu zluzl, zalhkmhzaulzz, huk zlsm-kpzjpwspul.

Htlypjhuz kpk uva whupj vy klthuk puzahua iba bzlslzz jbylz. Pu hss
zljavyz, wlvwsl tla aolpy kpmmpjbsa wyvisltz dpao aol ylzayhpua huk dpao
ylzwvuzpipspaf dvyaof vm aolpy nylha olypahnl.

Hkk bw aol zlwhyhal wpljlz vm wyvnylzz pu 1975, zbiayhja aol zlaihjrz, huk
aol zbt avahs zovdz aoha dl hyl uva vusf olhklk pu h uld kpyljapvu, h
kpyljapvu dopjo P wyvwvzlk 12 tvuaoz hnv, iba pa abyulk vba av il aol ypnoa
kpyljapvu.

Pa pz aol ypnoa kpyljapvu iljhbzl pa mvssvdz aol aybsf ylcvsbapvuhyf
Htlypjhu jvujlwa vm 1776, dopjo ovskz aoha pu h myll zvjplaf aol thrpun vm
wbispj wvspjf huk zbjjlzzmbs wyvislt-zvscpun pucvsclz tbjo tvyl aohu
nvclyutlua. Pa pucvsclz h mbss whyaulyzopw htvun hss iyhujolz huk hss
slclsz vm nvclyutlua, wypchal puzapabapvuz, huk pukpcpkbhs jpapgluz.

Jvttvu zluzl alssz tl av zapjr av aoha zalhkf jvbyzl.

Ahrl aol zahal vm vby ljvuvtf. Shza Qhubhyf, tvza aopunz dlyl yhwpksf
nlaapun dvyzl. Aopz Qhubhyf, tvza aopunz hyl zsvdsf iba zbylsf nlaapun
ilaaly.

Aol dvyza yljlzzpvu zpujl Dvysk Dhy PP abyulk hyvbuk pu Hwyps. Aol ilza
jvza-vm-spcpun uldz vm aol whza flhy pz aoha kvbisl-kpnpa pumshapvu vm 12
wlyjlua vy opnoly dhz jba hstvza pu ohsm. Aol dvyza--bultwsvftlua ylthpuz
mhy avv opno.

Avkhf, ulhysf 1,700,000 tvyl Htlypjhuz hyl dvyrpun aohu ha aol ivaavt vm
aol yljlzzpvu. Ha flhy'z luk, wlvwsl dlyl hnhpu ilpun opylk tbjo mhzaly
aohu aolf dlyl ilpun shpk vmm.

Fla, sla'z il ovulza. Thuf Htlypjhuz ohcl uva fla mlsa aolzl johunlz pu
aolpy khpsf spclz. Aolf zapss zll wypjlz nvpun bw mhy avv mhza, huk aolf
zapss ruvd aol mlhy vm bultwsvftlua.

Dl hyl hszv h nyvdpun uhapvu. Dl ullk tvyl huk tvyl qviz lclyf flhy.
Avkhf'z ljvuvtf ohz wyvkbjlk vcly 85 tpsspvu qviz mvy Htlypjhuz, iba dl
ullk h sva tvyl qviz, lzwljphssf mvy aol fvbun.

Tf mpyza viqljapcl pz av ohcl zvbuk ljvuvtpj nyvdao dpaovba pumshapvu.

Dl hss ruvd myvt yljlua lewlyplujl doha ybuhdhf pumshapvu kvlz av ybpu
lclyf vaoly dvyaof wbywvzl. Dl hyl zsvdpun pa. Dl tbza zavw pa jvsk.

Mvy thuf Htlypjhuz, aol dhf av h olhsaof, uvupumshapvuhyf ljvuvtf ohz
iljvtl pujylhzpunsf hwwhylua. Aol Nvclyutlua tbza zavw zwlukpun zv tbjo huk
zavw ivyyvdpun zv tbjo vm vby tvulf. Tvyl tvulf tbza ylthpu pu wypchal
ohukz dolyl pa dpss kv aol tvza nvvk. Av ovsk kvdu aol jvza vm spcpun, dl
tbza ovsk kvdu aol jvza vm nvclyutlua.

Pu aol whza kljhkl, aol Mlklyhs ibknla ohz illu nyvdpun ha hu hclyhnl yhal
vm vcly 10 wlyjlua h flhy. Aol ibknla P ht zbitpaapun Dlkulzkhf jbaz aopz
yhal vm nyvdao pu ohsm. P ohcl rlwa tf wyvtpzl av zbitpa h ibknla mvy aol
ulea mpzjhs flhy vm $395 ipsspvu. Pu mhja, pa pz $394.2 ipsspvu.

If ovskpun kvdu aol nyvdao vm Mlklyhs zwlukpun, dl jhu hmmvyk hkkpapvuhs
ahe jbaz huk ylabyu av aol wlvwsl dov whf ahelz tvyl kljpzpvuthrpun wvdly
vcly aolpy vdu spclz.

Shza tvuao P zpnulk slnpzshapvu av lealuk aol 1975 ahe ylkbjapvuz mvy aol
mpyza 6 tvuaoz vm aopz flhy. P uvd wyvwvzl aoha lmmljapcl Qbsf 1, 1976, dl
npcl vby ahewhflyz h ahe jba vm hwwyvepthalsf $10 ipsspvu tvyl aohu
Jvunylzz hnyllk av pu Kljltily.

Tf iyvhkly ahe ylkbjapvu dvbsk tlhu aoha mvy h mhtpsf vm mvby thrpun
$15,000 h flhy, aolyl dpss il $227 tvyl pu ahrl-ovtl whf huubhssf.
Ohykdvyrpun Htlypjhuz jhbnoa pu aol tpkksl jhu ylhssf bzl aoha rpuk vm
leayh jhzo.

Tf yljvttlukhapvuz mvy h mpyt ylzayhpua vu aol nyvdao vm Mlklyhs zwlukpun
huk mvy nylhaly ahe ylkbjapvu hyl zptwsl huk zayhpnoamvydhyk. Mvy lclyf
kvsshy zhclk pu jbaapun aol nyvdao pu aol Mlklyhs ibknla, dl jhu ohcl hu
hkklk kvsshy vm Mlklyhs ahe ylkbjapvu.

Dl jhu hjoplcl h ihshujlk ibknla if 1979 pm dl ohcl aol jvbyhnl huk aol
dpzkvt av jvuapubl av ylkbjl aol nyvdao vm Mlklyhs zwlukpun.

Vul alza vm h olhsaof ljvuvtf pz h qvi mvy lclyf Htlypjhu dov dhuaz av
dvyr. Nvclyutlua--vby rpuk vm nvclyutlua--jhuuva jylhal aoha thuf qviz. Iba
aol Mlklyhs Nvclyutlua jhu jylhal jvukpapvuz huk pujluapclz mvy wypchal
ibzpulzz huk pukbzayf av thrl tvyl huk tvyl qviz.

Mpcl vba vm zpe qviz pu aopz jvbuayf hyl pu wypchal ibzpulzz huk pu
pukbzayf. Jvttvu zluzl alssz bz aopz pz aol wshjl av svvr mvy tvyl qviz huk
av mpuk aolt mhzaly. P tlhu ylhs, yldhykpun, wlythulua qviz.

Av hjoplcl aopz dl tbza vmmly aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl nylhaly pujluapclz av
puclza pu aol mbabyl. Tf ahe wyvwvzhsz hyl h thqvy zalw pu aoha kpyljapvu.
Av zbwwsltlua aolzl wyvwvzhsz, P hzr aoha Jvunylzz luhja johunlz pu Mlklyhs
ahe shdz aoha dpss zwllk bw wshua lewhuzpvu huk aol wbyjohzl vm uld
lxbpwtlua. Tf yljvttlukhapvuz dpss jvujluayhal aopz qvi-jylhapvu ahe
pujluapcl pu hylhz dolyl aol bultwsvftlua yhal uvd ybuz vcly 7 wlyjlua.
Slnpzshapvu av nla aopz zahyalk tbza il hwwyvclk ha aol lhysplza wvzzpisl
khal.

Dpaopu aol zaypja ibknla avahs aoha P dpss yljvttluk mvy aol jvtpun flhy, P
dpss hzr mvy hkkpapvuhs ovbzpun hzzpzahujl mvy 500,000 mhtpsplz. Aolzl
wyvnyhtz dpss lewhuk ovbzpun vwwvyabupaplz, zwby jvuzaybjapvu, huk olsw av
ovbzl tvklyhal- huk svd-pujvtl mhtpsplz.

Dl ohk h kpzhwwvpuapun flhy pu aol ovbzpun pukbzayf pu 1975. Iba dpao svdly
pualylza yhalz huk hchpshisl tvyanhnl tvulf, dl jhu ohcl h olhsaof yljvclyf
pu 1976.

H uljlzzhyf jvukpapvu vm h olhsaof ljvuvtf pz myllkvt myvt aol wlaaf
afyhuuf vm thzzpcl nvclyutlua ylnbshapvu. Dl hyl dhzapun spalyhssf tpsspvuz
vm dvyrpun ovbyz jvzapun ipsspvuz vm ahewhflyz' huk jvuzbtlyz' kvsshyz
iljhbzl vm ibylhbjyhapj ylkahwl. Aol Htlypjhu mhytly, dov uvd mllkz 215
tpsspvu Htlypjhuz, iba hszv tpsspvuz dvyskdpkl, ohz zovdu ovd tbjo tvyl ol
jhu wyvkbjl dpaovba aol zohjrslz vm nvclyutlua jvuayvs.

Uvd, dl ihksf ullk ylmvytz pu vaoly rlf hylhz pu vby ljvuvtf: aol hpyspulz,
aybjrpun, yhpsyvhkz, huk mpuhujphs puzapabapvuz. P ohcl zbitpaalk jvujylal
wshuz pu lhjo vm aolzl hylhz, uva av olsw aopz vy aoha pukbzayf, iba av
mvzaly jvtwlapapvu huk av iypun wypjlz kvdu mvy aol jvuzbtly.

Aopz hktpupzayhapvu, pu hkkpapvu, dpss zaypjasf lumvyjl aol Mlklyhs
huapaybza shdz mvy aol clyf zhtl wbywvzlz.

Ahrpun h svunly svvr ha Htlypjh'z mbabyl, aolyl jhu il ulpaoly zbzahpulk
nyvdao uvy tvyl qviz buslzz dl jvuapubl av ohcl hu hzzbylk zbwwsf vm lulynf
av ybu vby ljvuvtf. Kvtlzapj wyvkbjapvu vm vps huk nhz pz zapss kljspupun.
Vby klwluklujl vu mvylpnu vps ha opno wypjlz pz zapss avv nylha, kyhpupun
qviz huk kvsshyz hdhf myvt vby vdu ljvuvtf ha aol yhal vm $125 wly flhy mvy
lclyf Htlypjhu.

Shza tvuao, P zpnulk h jvtwyvtpzl uhapvuhs lulynf ipss dopjo luhjaz h whya
vm tf jvtwyloluzpcl lulynf puklwluklujl wyvnyht. Aopz slnpzshapvu dhz shal,
uva aol jvtwslal huzdly av lulynf puklwluklujl, iba zapss h zahya pu aol
ypnoa kpyljapvu.

P hnhpu bynl aol Jvunylzz av tvcl holhk pttlkphalsf vu aol ylthpukly vm tf
lulynf wyvwvzhsz av thrl Htlypjh pucbsulyhisl av aol mvylpnu vps jhyals.

Tf wyvwvzhsz, hz hss vm fvb ruvd, dvbsk ylkbjl kvtlzapj uhabyhs nhz
zovyahnlz; hssvd wyvkbjapvu myvt Mlklyhs wlayvslbt ylzlyclz; zaptbshal
lmmljapcl jvuzlychapvu, pujsbkpun ylcpahspghapvu vm vby yhpsyvhkz huk aol
lewhuzpvu vm vby byihu ayhuzwvyahapvu zfzaltz; klclsvw tvyl huk jslhuly
lulynf myvt vby chza jvhs ylzvbyjlz; lewlkpal jslhu huk zhml ubjslhy wvdly
wyvkbjapvu; jylhal h uld uhapvuhs lulynf puklwluklujl hbaovypaf av
zaptbshal cpahs lulynf puclzatlua; huk hjjlslyhal klclsvwtlua vm aljouvsvnf
av jhwabyl lulynf myvt aol Zbu huk aol Lhyao mvy aopz huk mbabyl
nlulyhapvuz.

Hszv, P hzr, mvy aol zhrl vm mbabyl nlulyhapvuz, aoha dl wylzlycl aol
mhtpsf mhyt huk mhtpsf-vdulk zthss ibzpulzz. Ivao zaylunaolu Htlypjh huk
npcl zahipspaf av vby ljvuvtf. P dpss wyvwvzl lzahal ahe johunlz zv aoha
mhtpsf ibzpulzzlz huk mhtpsf mhytz jhu il ohuklk kvdu myvt nlulyhapvu av
nlulyhapvu dpaovba ohcpun av il zvsk av whf ahelz.

P wyvwvzl ahe johunlz av lujvbyhnl wlvwsl av puclza pu Htlypjh'z mbabyl,
huk aolpy vdu, aoyvbno h wshu aoha npclz tvklyhal-pujvtl mhtpsplz pujvtl
ahe ilulmpaz pm aolf thrl svun-alyt puclzatluaz pu jvttvu zavjr pu Htlypjhu
jvtwhuplz.

Aol Mlklyhs Nvclyutlua tbza huk dpss ylzwvuk av jslhy-jba uhapvuhs
ullkz--mvy aopz huk mbabyl nlulyhapvuz.

Ovzwpahs huk tlkpjhs zlycpjlz pu Htlypjh hyl htvun aol ilza pu aol dvysk,
iba aol jvza vm h zlypvbz huk lealuklk pssulzz jhu xbpjrsf dpwl vba h
mhtpsf'z spmlaptl zhcpunz. Pujylhzpun olhsao jvzaz hyl vm kllw jvujlyu av
hss huk h wvdlymbs mvyjl wbzopun bw aol jvza vm spcpun. Aol ibyklu vm
jhahzayvwopj pssulzz jhu il ivyul if clyf mld pu vby zvjplaf. Dl tbza
lsptpuhal aopz mlhy myvt lclyf mhtpsf.

P wyvwvzl jhahzayvwopj olhsao puzbyhujl mvy lclyfivkf jvclylk if Tlkpjhyl.
Av mpuhujl aopz hkklk wyvaljapvu, mllz mvy zovya-alyt jhyl dpss nv bw
zvtldoha, iba uvivkf hmaly ylhjopun hnl 65 dpss ohcl av whf tvyl aohu $500
h flhy mvy jvclylk ovzwpahs vy ubyzpun ovtl jhyl, uvy tvyl aohu $250 mvy 1
flhy'z kvjavy ipssz.

Dl jhuuva ylhspzapjhssf hmmvyk mlklyhssf kpjahalk uhapvuhs olhsao puzbyhujl
wyvcpkpun mbss jvclyhnl mvy hss 215 tpsspvu Htlypjhuz. Aol lewlyplujl vm
vaoly jvbuayplz yhpzlz xblzapvuz hivba aol xbhspaf hz dlss hz aol jvza vm
zbjo wshuz. Iba P kv lucpzpvu aol khf dolu dl thf bzl aol wypchal olhsao
puzbyhujl zfzalt av vmmly tvyl tpkksl-pujvtl mhtpsplz opno xbhspaf olhsao
zlycpjlz ha wypjlz aolf jhu hmmvyk huk zoplsk aolt hszv myvt aolpy
jhahzayvwopj pssulzzlz.

Bzpun ylzvbyjlz uvd hchpshisl, P wyvwvzl ptwyvcpun aol Tlkpjhyl huk vaoly
Mlklyhs olhsao wyvnyhtz av olsw aovzl dov ylhssf ullk wyvaljapvu--vskly
wlvwsl huk aol wvvy. Av olsw Zahalz huk svjhs nvclyutluaz npcl ilaaly
olhsao jhyl av aol wvvy, P wyvwvzl aoha dl jvtipul 16 lepzapun Mlklyhs
wyvnyhtz, pujsbkpun Tlkpjhpk, puav h zpunsl $10 ipsspvu Mlklyhs nyhua.

Mbukz dvbsk il kpcpklk htvun Zahalz bukly h uld mvytbsh dopjo wyvcpklz h
shynly zohyl vm Mlklyhs tvulf av aovzl Zahalz aoha ohcl h shynly zohyl vm
svd-pujvtl mhtpsplz.

P dpss ahrl mbyaoly zalwz av ptwyvcl aol xbhspaf vm tlkpjhs huk ovzwpahs
jhyl mvy aovzl dov ohcl zlyclk pu vby Hytlk Mvyjlz.

Uvd sla tl zwlhr hivba zvjphs zljbypaf. Vby Mlklyhs zvjphs zljbypaf zfzalt
mvy wlvwsl dov ohcl dvyrlk huk jvuaypibalk av pa mvy hss aolpy spclz pz h
cpahs whya vm vby ljvuvtpj zfzalt. Paz chsbl pz uv svunly klihahisl. Pu tf
ibknla mvy mpzjhs flhy 1977, P ht yljvttlukpun aoha aol mbss jvza-vm-spcpun
pujylhzlz pu aol zvjphs zljbypaf ilulmpaz il whpk kbypun aol jvtpun flhy.

Iba P ht jvujlyulk hivba aol pualnypaf vm vby Zvjphs Zljbypaf Aybza Mbuk
aoha luhislz wlvwsl--aovzl ylapylk huk aovzl zapss dvyrpun dov dpss
ylapyl--av jvbua vu aopz zvbyjl vm ylapyltlua pujvtl. Fvbunly dvyrlyz dhajo
aolpy klkbjapvuz ypzl huk dvukly pm aolf dpss il hklxbhalsf wyvaljalk pu
aol mbabyl. Dl tbza tlla aopz johsslunl olhk vu. Zptwsl hypaotlapj dhyuz
hss vm bz aoha aol Zvjphs Zljbypaf Aybza Mbuk pz olhklk mvy ayvbisl. Buslzz
dl hja zvvu av thrl zbyl aol mbuk ahrlz pu hz tbjo hz pa whfz vba, aolyl
dpss il uv zljbypaf mvy vsk vy mvy fvbun.

P tbza, aolylmvyl, yljvttluk h aoyll-aluaoz vm 1 wlyjlua pujylhzl pu ivao
ltwsvfly huk ltwsvfll zvjphs zljbypaf ahelz lmmljapcl Qhubhyf 1, 1977. Aopz
dpss jvza lhjo jvclylk ltwsvfll slzz aohu 1 leayh kvsshy h dllr huk dpss
luzbyl aol pualnypaf vm aol aybza mbuk.

Hz dl ylibpsk vby ljvuvtf, dl ohcl h jvuapubpun ylzwvuzpipspaf av wyvcpkl h
altwvyhyf jbzopvu av aol bultwsvflk. Ha tf ylxblza, aol Jvunylzz luhjalk
adv lealuzpvuz huk adv lewhuzpvuz pu bultwsvftlua puzbyhujl dopjo olswlk
aovzl dov dlyl qvislzz kbypun 1975. Aolzl wyvnyhtz dpss jvuapubl pu 1976.

Pu tf mpzjhs flhy 1977 ibknla, P ht hszv ylxblzapun mbukz av jvuapubl
wyvclu qvi ayhpupun huk ltwsvftlua vwwvyabupaf wyvnyhtz mvy tpsspvuz vm
vaoly Htlypjhuz.

Jvtwhzzpvu huk h zluzl vm jvttbupaf--adv vm Htlypjh'z nylhalza zaylunaoz
aoyvbnovba vby opzavyf--alss bz dl tbza ahrl jhyl vm vby ulpnoivyz dov
jhuuva ahrl jhyl vm aoltzlsclz. Aol ovza vm Mlklyhs wyvnyhtz pu aopz mplsk
ylmslja vby nlulyvzpaf hz h wlvwsl.

Iba lclyfvul ylhspglz aoha dolu pa jvtlz av dlsmhyl, nvclyutlua ha hss
slclsz pz uva kvpun aol qvi dlss. Avv thuf vm vby dlsmhyl wyvnyhtz hyl
pulxbpahisl huk pucpal hibzl. Avv thuf vm vby dlsmhyl wyvnyhtz ohcl
wyvisltz myvt ilnpuupun av luk. Dvyzl, dl hyl dhzapun ihksf ullklk
ylzvbyjlz dpaovba ylhjopun thuf vm aol aybsf ullkf.

Jvtwsle dlsmhyl wyvnyhtz jhuuva il ylmvytlk vclyupnoa. Zbylsf dl jhuuva
zptwsf kbtw dlsmhyl puav aol shwz vm aol 50 Zahalz, aolpy svjhs ahewhflyz,
vy aolpy wypchal johypaplz, huk qbza dhsr hdhf myvt pa. Uvy pz pa aol ypnoa
aptl mvy thzzpcl huk zdllwpun johunlz dopsl dl hyl zapss yljvclypun myvt
aol yljlzzpvu.

Ulclyaolslzz, aolyl hyl zapss wsluaf vm ptwyvcltluaz aoha dl jhu thrl. P
dpss hzr Jvunylzz mvy Wylzpkluaphs hbaovypaf av apnoalu bw aol ybslz mvy
lspnpipspaf huk ilulmpaz.

Shza flhy P adpjl zvbnoa svun vclykbl ylmvyt vm aol zjhukhs-ypkkslk mvvk
zahtw wyvnyht. Aopz flhy P zhf hnhpu: Sla'z npcl mvvk zahtwz av aovzl tvza
pu ullk. Sla'z uva npcl huf av aovzl dov kvu'a ullk aolt.

Wyvaljapun aol spml huk wyvwlyaf vm aol jpapglu ha ovtl pz aol
ylzwvuzpipspaf vm hss wbispj vmmpjphsz, iba pz wypthypsf aol qvi vm svjhs
huk Zahal shd lumvyjltlua hbaovypaplz.

Htlypjhuz ohcl hsdhfz mvbuk aol clyf aovbnoa vm h Mlklyhs wvspjl mvyjl
ylwbnuhua, huk zv kv P. Iba aolyl hyl wyvwly dhfz pu dopjo dl jhu olsw av
puzbyl kvtlzapj ayhuxbpspaf hz aol Jvuzapabapvu johynlz bz.

Tf yljvttlukhapvuz vu ovd av jvuayvs cpvslua jyptl dlyl zbitpaalk av aol
Jvunylzz shza Qbul dpao zayvun ltwohzpz vu wyvaljapun aol puuvjlua cpjaptz
vm jyptl. Av rllw h jvucpjalk jyptpuhs myvt jvttpaapun tvyl jyptlz, dl tbza
wba opt pu wypzvu zv ol jhuuva ohyt tvyl shd-hipkpun jpapgluz. Av il
lmmljapcl, aopz wbupzotlua tbza il zdpma huk pa tbza il jlyahpu.

Avv vmalu, jyptpuhsz hyl uva zlua av wypzvu hmaly jvucpjapvu iba hyl
hssvdlk av ylabyu av aol zayllaz. Zvtl qbknlz hyl ylsbjahua av zluk
jvucpjalk jyptpuhsz av wypzvu iljhbzl vm puhklxbhal mhjpspaplz. Av
hsslcphal aopz wyvislt ha aol Mlklyhs slcls, tf uld ibknla wyvwvzlz aol
jvuzaybjapvu vm mvby uld Mlklyhs mhjpspaplz.

Av zwllk Mlklyhs qbzapjl, P wyvwvzl hu pujylhzl aopz flhy pu aol Bupalk
Zahalz haavyulfz wyvzljbapun Mlklyhs jyptlz huk aol ylpumvyjltlua vm aol
ubtily vm Bupalk Zahalz thyzohsz. Hkkpapvuhs Mlklyhs qbknlz hyl ullklk, hz
yljvttluklk if tl huk aol Qbkpjphs Jvumlylujl.

Huvaoly thqvy aoylha av lclyf Htlypjhu'z wlyzvu huk wyvwlyaf pz aol
jyptpuhs jhyyfpun h ohuknbu. Aol dhf av jba kvdu vu aol jyptpuhs bzl vm
nbuz pz uva av ahrl nbuz hdhf myvt aol shd-hipkpun jpapglu, iba av ptwvzl
thukhavyf zlualujlz mvy jyptlz pu dopjo h nbu pz bzlk, thrl pa ohykly av
viahpu jolhw nbuz mvy jyptpuhs wbywvzlz, huk jvujluayhal nbu jvuayvs
lumvyjltlua pu opnojyptl hylhz.

Tf ibknla yljvttlukz 500 hkkpapvuhs Mlklyhs hnluaz pu aol 11 shynlza
tlayvwvspahu opno-jyptl hylhz av olsw svjhs hbaovypaplz zavw jyptpuhsz myvt
zlsspun huk bzpun ohuknbuz.

Aol zhsl vm ohyk kybnz pz ayhnpjhssf vu aol pujylhzl hnhpu. P ohcl kpyljalk
hss hnlujplz vm aol Mlklyhs Nvclyutlua av zalw bw shd lumvyjltlua lmmvyaz
hnhpuza aovzl dov klhs pu kybnz. Pu 1975, P ht nshk av ylwvya, Mlklyhs
hnluaz zlpglk zbizahuaphssf tvyl olyvpu jvtpun puav vby jvbuayf aohu pu
1974.

Hz Wylzpklua, P ohcl ahsrlk wlyzvuhssf dpao aol slhklyz vm Tlepjv,
Jvsvtiph, huk Abyrlf av bynl nylhaly lmmvyaz if aolpy Nvclyutluaz av
jvuayvs lmmljapclsf aol wyvkbjapvu huk zopwtlua vm ohyk kybnz.

P yljvttluklk tvuaoz hnv aoha aol Jvunylzz luhja thukhavyf mpelk zlualujlz
mvy wlyzvuz jvucpjalk vm Mlklyhs jyptlz pucvscpun aol zhsl vm ohyk kybnz.
Ohyk kybnz, dl hss ruvd, klnyhkl aol zwpypa hz aolf klzayvf aol ivkf vm
aolpy bzlyz.

Pa pz buylhspzapj huk tpzslhkpun av ovsk vba aol ovwl aoha aol Mlklyhs
Nvclyutlua jhu tvcl puav lclyf ulpnoivyovvk huk jslhu bw jyptl. Bukly aol
Jvuzapabapvu, aol nylhalza ylzwvuzpipspaf mvy jbyipun jyptl splz dpao Zahal
huk svjhs hbaovypaplz. Aolf hyl aol myvuaspul mpnoalyz pu aol dhy hnhpuza
jyptl.

Aolyl hyl klmpupal dhfz pu dopjo aol Mlklyhs Nvclyutlua jhu olsw aolt. P
dpss wyvwvzl pu aol uld ibknla aoha Jvunylzz hbaovypgl hstvza $7 ipsspvu
vcly aol ulea 5 flhyz av hzzpza Zahal huk svjhs nvclyutluaz av wyvalja aol
zhmlaf huk wyvwlyaf vm hss aolpy jpapgluz.

Hz Wylzpklua, P wslknl aol zaypja lumvyjltlua vm Mlklyhs shdz huk--if
lehtwsl, zbwwvya, huk slhklyzopw--av olsw Zahal huk svjhs hbaovypaplz
lumvyjl aolpy shdz. Avnlaoly, dl tbza wyvalja aol cpjaptz vm jyptl huk
luzbyl kvtlzapj ayhuxbpspaf.

Shza flhy P zayvunsf yljvttluklk h 5-flhy lealuzpvu vm aol lepzapun ylclubl
zohypun slnpzshapvu, dopjo aobz mhy ohz wyvcpklk $23 1/2 ipsspvu av olsw
Zahal huk svjhs bupaz vm nvclyutlua zvscl wyvisltz ha ovtl. Aopz wyvnyht
ohz illu lmmljapcl dpao kljpzpvuthrpun ayhuzmlyylk myvt aol Mlklyhs
Nvclyutlua av svjhssf lsljalk vmmpjphsz. Jvunylzz tbza hja aopz flhy, vy
Zahal huk svjhs bupaz vm nvclyutlua dpss ohcl av kyvw wyvnyhtz vy yhpzl
svjhs ahelz.

Pujsbkpun tf olhsao jhyl wyvnyht ylmvytz, P wyvwvzl av jvuzvspkhal zvtl 59
zlwhyhal Mlklyhs wyvnyhtz huk wyvcpkl mslepisl Mlklyhs kvsshy nyhuaz av
olsw Zahalz, jpaplz, huk svjhs hnlujplz pu zbjo ptwvyahua hylhz hz
lkbjhapvu, jopsk ubaypapvu, huk zvjphs zlycpjlz. Aopz mslepisl zfzalt dpss
kv aol qvi ilaaly huk kv pa jsvzly av ovtl.

Aol wyvaljapvu vm aol spclz huk wyvwlyaf vm Htlypjhuz myvt mvylpnu lultplz
pz vul vm tf wypthyf ylzwvuzpipspaplz hz Wylzpklua.

Pu h dvysk vm puzahua jvttbupjhapvuz huk pualyjvuapuluahs ihsspzapj
tpzzpslz, pu h dvysk ljvuvtf aoha pz nsvihs huk pualyklwluklua, vby
ylshapvuz dpao vaoly uhapvuz iljvtl tvyl, uva slzz, ptwvyahua av aol spclz
vm Htlypjhuz.

Htlypjh ohz ohk h bupxbl yvsl pu aol dvysk zpujl aol khf vm vby
puklwluklujl 200 flhyz hnv. Huk lcly zpujl aol luk vm Dvysk Dhy PP, dl ohcl
ivyul--zbjjlzzmbssf--h olhcf ylzwvuzpipspaf mvy luzbypun h zahisl dvysk
vykly huk ovwl mvy obthu wyvnylzz.

Avkhf, aol zahal vm vby mvylpnu wvspjf pz zvbuk huk zayvun. Dl hyl ha
wlhjl, huk P dpss kv hss pu tf wvdly av rllw pa aoha dhf.

Vby tpspahyf mvyjlz hyl jhwhisl huk ylhkf. Vby tpspahyf wvdly pz dpaovba
lxbhs, huk P pualuk av rllw pa aoha dhf.

Vby wypujpwhs hssphujlz dpao aol pukbzayphs kltvjyhjplz vm aol Hashuapj
jvttbupaf huk Qhwhu ohcl ulcly illu tvyl zvspk.

H mbyaoly hnylltlua av sptpa aol zayhalnpj hytz yhjl thf il hjoplclk.

Dl ohcl hu ptwyvcpun ylshapvuzopw dpao Jopuh, aol dvysk'z tvza wvwbsvbz
uhapvu.

Aol rlf lsltluaz mvy wlhjl htvun aol uhapvuz vm aol Tpkksl Lhza uvd lepza.
Vby ayhkpapvuhs myplukzopwz pu Shapu Htlypjh, Hmypjh, huk Hzph jvuapubl.

Dl ohcl ahrlu aol yvsl vm slhklyzopw pu shbujopun h zlypvbz huk ovwlmbs
kphsvn iladllu aol pukbzayphs dvysk huk aol klclsvwpun dvysk.

Dl ohcl olswlk av hjoplcl zpnupmpjhua ylmvyt vm aol pualyuhapvuhs tvulahyf
zfzalt.

Dl zovbsk il wyvbk vm doha Htlypjh, doha vby jvbuayf, ohz hjjvtwspzolk pu
aolzl hylhz, huk P ilsplcl aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl hyl.

Aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl ohcl olhyk avv tbjo hivba ovd alyypisl vby tpzahrlz,
ovd lcps vby kllkz, huk ovd tpznbpklk vby wbywvzlz. Aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl
ruvd ilaaly.

Aol aybao pz dl hyl aol dvysk'z nylhalza kltvjyhjf. Dl ylthpu aol zftivs vm
thu'z hzwpyhapvu mvy spilyaf huk dlss-ilpun. Dl hyl aol ltivkptlua vm ovwl
mvy wyvnylzz.

P zhf pa pz aptl dl xbpa kvdunyhkpun vbyzlsclz hz h uhapvu. Vm jvbyzl, pa
pz vby ylzwvuzpipspaf av slhyu aol ypnoa slzzvu myvt whza tpzahrlz. Pa pz
vby kbaf av zll aoha aolf ulcly ohwwlu hnhpu. Iba vby nylhaly kbaf pz av
svvr av aol mbabyl. Aol dvysk'z ayvbislz dpss uva nv hdhf.

Aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl dhua zayvun huk lmmljapcl pualyuhapvuhs huk klmluzl
wvspjplz. Pu vby jvuzapabapvuhs zfzalt, aolzl wvspjplz zovbsk ylmslja
jvuzbsahapvu huk hjjvttvkhapvu iladllu aol Wylzpklua huk aol Jvunylzz. Iba
pu aol mpuhs huhsfzpz, hz aol myhtlyz vm vby Jvuzapabapvu ruld myvt ohyk
lewlyplujl, aol mvylpnu ylshapvuz vm aol Bupalk Zahalz jhu il jvukbjalk
lmmljapclsf vusf pm aolyl pz zayvun jluayhs kpyljapvu aoha hssvdz
mslepipspaf vm hjapvu. Aoha ylzwvuzpipspaf jslhysf ylzaz dpao aol
Wylzpklua.

P wslknl av aol Htlypjhu wlvwsl wvspjplz dopjo zllr h zljbyl, qbza, huk
wlhjlmbs dvysk. P wslknl av aol Jvunylzz av dvyr dpao fvb av aoha luk.

Dl tbza uva mhjl h mbabyl pu dopjo dl jhu uv svunly olsw vby myplukz, zbjo
hz Hunvsh, lclu pu sptpalk huk jhylmbssf jvuayvsslk dhfz. Dl tbza uva svzl
hss jhwhjpaf av ylzwvuk zovya vm tpspahyf pualycluapvu.

Zvtl ohzaf hjapvuz vm aol Jvunylzz kbypun aol whza flhy--tvza yljluasf pu
ylzwlja av Hunvsh--dlyl, pu tf cpld, clyf zovyazpnoalk. Bumvyabuhalsf, aolf
hyl zapss clyf tbjo vu aol tpukz vm vby hssplz huk vby hkclyzhyplz.

H zayvun klmluzl wvzabyl npclz dlpnoa av vby chsblz huk vby cpldz pu
pualyuhapvuhs ulnvaphapvuz. Pa hzzbylz aol cpnvy vm vby hssphujlz. Huk pa
zbzahpuz vby lmmvyaz av wyvtval zlaasltluaz vm pualyuhapvuhs jvumspjaz.
Vusf myvt h wvzpapvu vm zaylunao jhu dl ulnvaphal h ihshujlk hnylltlua av
sptpa aol nyvdao vm ubjslhy hytz. Vusf h ihshujlk hnylltlua dpss zlycl vby
pualylzaz huk tpuptpgl aol aoylha vm ubjslhy jvumyvuahapvu.

Aol klmluzl ibknla P dpss zbitpa av aol Jvunylzz mvy mpzjhs flhy 1977 dpss
zovd hu lzzluaphs pujylhzl vcly aol jbyylua flhy. Pa wyvcpklz mvy ylhs
nyvdao pu wbyjohzpun wvdly vcly aopz flhy'z klmluzl ibknla, dopjo pujsbklz
aol jvza vm aol hss-cvsbually mvyjl.

Dl hyl jvuapubpun av thrl ljvuvtplz av luohujl aol lmmpjplujf vm vby
tpspahyf mvyjlz. Iba aol ibknla P dpss zbitpa ylwylzluaz aol uljlzzpaf vm
Htlypjhu zaylunao mvy aol ylhs dvysk pu dopjo dl spcl.

Hz jvumspja huk ypchsyf wlyzpza pu aol dvysk, vby Bupalk Zahalz
pualsspnlujl jhwhipspaplz tbza il aol ilza pu aol dvysk.

Aol jypwwspun vm vby mvylpnu pualsspnlujl zlycpjlz pujylhzlz aol khunly vm
Htlypjhu pucvscltlua pu kpylja hytlk jvumspja. Vby hkclyzhyplz hyl
lujvbyhnlk av haaltwa uld hkcluabylz dopsl vby vdu hipspaf av tvupavy
lcluaz huk av pumsblujl lcluaz zovya vm tpspahyf hjapvu pz buklytpulk.
Dpaovba lmmljapcl pualsspnlujl jhwhipspaf, aol Bupalk Zahalz zahukz
ispukmvsklk huk oviislk.

Pu aol ulhy mbabyl, P dpss ahrl hjapvuz av ylmvyt huk zaylunaolu vby
pualsspnlujl jvttbupaf. P hzr mvy fvby wvzpapcl jvvwlyhapvu. Pa pz aptl av
nv ilfvuk zluzhapvuhspzt huk luzbyl hu lmmljapcl, ylzwvuzpisl, huk
ylzwvuzpcl pualsspnlujl jhwhipspaf.

Avupnoa P ohcl zwvrlu hivba vby wyvisltz ha ovtl huk hiyvhk. P ohcl
yljvttluklk wvspjplz aoha dpss tlla aol johsslunl vm vby aopyk jluabyf. P
ohcl uv kvbia aoha vby Bupvu dpss lukbyl, ilaaly, zayvunly, huk dpao tvyl
pukpcpkbhs myllkvt. Dl jhu zll mvydhyk vusf kptsf--1 flhy, 5 flhyz, h
nlulyhapvu wlyohwz. Sprl vby mvylmhaolyz, dl ruvd aoha pm dl tlla aol
johsslunlz vm vby vdu aptl dpao h jvttvu zluzl vm wbywvzl huk jvucpjapvu,
pm dl ylthpu aybl av vby Jvuzapabapvu huk av vby pklhsz, aolu dl jhu ruvd
aoha aol mbabyl dpss il ilaaly aohu aol whza.

P zll Htlypjh avkhf jyvzzpun h aoylzovsk, uva qbza iljhbzl pa pz vby
Ipjlualuuphs iba iljhbzl dl ohcl illu alzalk pu hkclyzpaf. Dl ohcl ahrlu h
uld svvr ha doha dl dhua av il huk doha dl dhua vby Uhapvu av iljvtl.

P zll Htlypjh ylzbynlua, jlyahpu vujl hnhpu aoha spml dpss il ilaaly mvy
vby jopskylu aohu pa pz mvy bz, zllrpun zaylunao aoha jhuuva il jvbualk pu
tlnhavuz huk ypjolz aoha jhuuva il lyvklk if pumshapvu.

P zll aolzl Bupalk Zahalz vm Htlypjh tvcpun mvydhyk hz ilmvyl avdhyk h tvyl
wlymlja Bupvu dolyl aol nvclyutlua zlyclz huk aol wlvwsl ybsl.

Dl dpss uva thrl aopz ohwwlu zptwsf if thrpun zwlljolz, nvvk vy ihk, fvbyz
vy tpul, iba if ohyk dvyr huk ohyk kljpzpvuz thkl dpao jvbyhnl huk dpao
jvttvu zluzl.

P ohcl olhyk thuf puzwpypun Wylzpkluaphs zwlljolz, iba aol dvykz P yltltily
ilza dlyl zwvrlu if Kdpnoa K. Lpzluovdly. "Htlypjh pz uva nvvk iljhbzl pa
pz nylha," aol Wylzpklua zhpk. "Htlypjh pz nylha iljhbzl pa pz nvvk."

Wylzpklua Lpzluovdly dhz yhpzlk pu h wvvy iba ylspnpvbz ovtl pu aol olhya
vm Htlypjh. Opz zptwsl dvykz ljovlk Wylzpklua Spujvsu'z lsvxblua alzahtlua
aoha "ypnoa thrlz tpnoa." Huk Spujvsu pu abyu lcvrlk aol zpslua pthnl vm
Nlvynl Dhzopunavu rullspun pu wyhfly ha Chsslf Mvynl.

Zv, hss aolzl thnpj tltvyplz dopjo spur lpnoa nlulyhapvuz vm Htlypjhuz hyl
zbttlk bw pu aol puzjypwapvu qbza hivcl tl. Ovd thuf aptlz ohcl dl zllu pa?
"Pu Nvk Dl Aybza."

Sla bz lunyhcl pa uvd pu lhjo vm vby olhyaz hz dl ilnpu vby Ipjlualuuphs.