Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hm. Qdxz Kmzndyzio, Hzhwzmn ja ocz 94oc Xjibmznn, viy
ydnodibpdnczy bpznon:

Orziot-nds tzvmn vbj, v amznchvi Xjibmznnhvi, v tjpib azggjr rdoc gjon ja
dyzvgdnh rcj rvn jpo oj xcvibz ocz rjmgy, nojjy wzajmz Nvh Mvtwpmi di ocz
rzgg ja ocz Cjpnz viy njgzhigt nrjmz oj ocz nvhz jvoc ocvo vgg ja tjp ojjf
tznozmyvt--vi piajmbzoovwgz zskzmdzixz, viy D xjibmvopgvoz tjp vgg.

Orj yvtn gvozm, ocvo nvhz amznchvi nojjy vo ocz wvxf ja ocdn bmzvo
Xcvhwzm--jqzm oczmz njhzkgvxz--vn Kmzndyzio Omphvi, vgg xcvmbzy pk wt cdn
ndibgz-cviyzy zgzxodji qdxojmt, mzkjmozy vn ocz Xjinodopodji mzlpdmzn ji
ocz novoz ja ocz Pidji.

Rczi ocz wdkvmodnvi vkkgvpnz nojkkzy, Kmzndyzio Omphvi nvdy, "D vh cvkkt oj
mzkjmo oj ocdn 81no Xjibmznn ocvo ocz novoz ja ocz Pidji dn bjjy. Jpm
Ivodji dn wzoozm vwgz ocvi zqzm wzajmz oj hzzo ocz izzyn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi
kzjkgz, viy oj bdqz oczh oczdm avdm xcvixz di ocz kpmnpdo ja cvkkdiznn.
[Do] dn ajmzhjno vhjib ocz ivodjin ja ocz rjmgy di ocz nzvmxc ajm kzvxz."

Ojyvt, ocvo amznchvi Hzhwzm amjh Hdxcdbvi noviyn rczmz Hm. Omphvi
nojjy, viy D hpno nvt oj tjp ocvo ocz novoz ja ocz Pidji dn ijo bjjy:

Hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin vmz jpo ja rjmf.

Mzxznndji viy diagvodji vmz zmjydib ocz hjizt ja hdggdjin hjmz.

Kmdxzn vmz ojj cdbc, viy nvgzn vmz ojj ngjr.

Ocdn tzvm'n Azyzmvg yzadxdo rdgg wz vwjpo $30 wdggdji; izso tzvm'n kmjwvwgt
$45 wdggdji.

Ocz ivodjivg yzwo rdgg mdnz oj jqzm $500 wdggdji.

Jpm kgvio xvkvxdot viy kmjypxodqdot vmz ijo dixmzvndib avno zijpbc.

Rz yzkziy ji joczmn ajm znnziodvg zizmbt.

Njhz kzjkgz lpznodji oczdm Bjqzmihzio'n vwdgdot oj hvfz cvmy yzxdndjin viy
nodxf rdoc oczh; oczt zskzxo Rvncdiboji kjgdodxn vn pnpvg.

Tzo, rcvo Kmzndyzio Omphvi nvdy ji Evipvmt 5, 1949, dn zqzi hjmz ompz di
1975. Rz vmz wzoozm vwgz oj hzzo jpm kzjkgz'n izzyn. Vgg Vhzmdxvin yj cvqz
v avdmzm xcvixz oj kpmnpz cvkkdiznn. Ijo jigt vmz rz nodgg ocz ajmzhjno
ivodji di ocz kpmnpdo ja kzvxz wpo ojyvt'n kmjnkzxon ja voovdidib do vmz
diadidozgt wmdbcozm.

Oczmz rzmz 59 hdggdji Vhzmdxvin zhkgjtzy vo ocz novmo ja 1949; ijr oczmz
vmz hjmz ocvi 85 hdggdji Vhzmdxvin rcj cvqz ejwn. Di xjhkvmvwgz yjggvmn,
ocz vqzmvbz dixjhz ja ocz Vhzmdxvi avhdgt cvn yjpwgzy ypmdib ocz kvno 26
tzvmn.

Ijr, D rvio oj nkzvf qzmt wgpiogt. D'qz bjo wvy izrn, viy D yji'o zskzxo
hpxc, da vit, vkkgvpnz. Ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz rvio vxodji, viy do rdgg ovfz
wjoc ocz Xjibmznn viy ocz Kmzndyzio oj bdqz oczh rcvo oczt rvio. Kmjbmznn
viy njgpodjin xvi wz vxcdzqzy, viy oczt rdgg wz vxcdzqzy.

Ht hznnvbz ojyvt dn ijo dioziyzy oj vyymznn vgg ja ocz xjhkgzs izzyn ja
Vhzmdxv. D rdgg nziy nzkvmvoz hznnvbzn hvfdib nkzxdadx mzxjhhziyvodjin ajm
yjhznodx gzbdngvodji, npxc vn ocz zsozindji ja bzizmvg mzqzipz ncvmdib viy
ocz Qjodib Mdbcon Vxo.

Ocz hjhzio cvn xjhz oj hjqz di v izr ydmzxodji. Rz xvi yj ocdn wt
avncdjidib v izr kvmoizmncdk wzorzzi ocz Xjibmznn ji ocz jiz cviy, ocz
Rcdoz Cjpnz ji ocz joczm, viy ocz kzjkgz rz wjoc mzkmznzio.

Gzo pn hjwdgduz ocz hjno kjrzmapg viy hjno xmzvodqz diypnomdvg ivodji ocvo
zqzm zsdnozy ji ocdn Zvmoc oj kpo vgg jpm kzjkgz oj rjmf. Ocz zhkcvndn ji
jpm zxjijhdx zaajmon hpno ijr ncdao amjh diagvodji oj ejwn.

Oj wjgnozm wpndiznn viy diypnomt viy oj xmzvoz izr ejwn, D kmjkjnz v 1-tzvm
ovs mzypxodji ja $16 wdggdji. Ocmzz-lpvmozmn rjpgy bj oj diydqdypvgn viy
jiz-lpvmozm oj kmjhjoz wpndiznn diqznohzio.

Ocdn xvnc mzwvoz oj diydqdypvgn vhjpion oj 12 kzmxzio ja 1974 ovs
kvthzion--v ojovg xpo ja $12 wdggdji, rdoc v hvsdhph ja $1,000 kzm mzopmi.

D xvgg ji ocz Xjibmznn oj vxo wt Vkmdg 1. Da tjp yj--viy D cjkz tjp
rdgg--ocz Omzvnpmt xvi nziy ocz admno xczxf ajm cvga ja ocz mzwvoz di Hvt
viy ocz nzxjiy wt Nzkozhwzm.

Ocz joczm jiz-ajpmoc ja ocz xpo, vwjpo $4 wdggdji, rdgg bj oj wpndiznn,
dixgpydib avmhn, oj kmjhjoz zskvindji viy oj xmzvoz hjmz ejwn. Ocz 1-tzvm
mzypxodji ajm wpndiznnzn rjpgy wz di ocz ajmh ja v gdwzmvgduzy diqznohzio
ovs xmzydo dixmzvndib ocz mvoz oj 12 kzmxzio ajm vgg wpndiznnzn.

Ocdn ovs xpo yjzn ijo dixgpyz ocz hjmz apiyvhziovg mzajmhn izzyzy di jpm
ovs ntnozh. Wpo do kjdion pn di ocz mdbco ydmzxodji--vggjrdib ovskvtzmn
mvoczm ocvi ocz Bjqzmihzio oj nkziy oczdm kvt.

Xpoodib ovszn ijr dn znnziodvg da rz vmz oj opmi ocz zxjijht vmjpiy. V ovs
xpo jaazmn ocz wzno cjkz ja xmzvodib hjmz ejwn. Piajmopivozgt, do rdgg
dixmzvnz ocz nduz ja ocz wpybzo yzadxdo. Oczmzajmz, do dn hjmz dhkjmovio
ocvi zqzm ocvo rz ovfz nozkn oj xjiomjg ocz bmjroc ja Azyzmvg
zskziydopmzn.

Kvmo ja jpm omjpwgz dn ocvo rz cvqz wzzi nzga-diypgbzio. Ajm yzxvyzn, rz
cvqz wzzi qjodib zqzm-dixmzvndib gzqzgn ja Bjqzmihzio wzizadon, viy ijr ocz
wdgg cvn xjhz ypz. Rz cvqz wzzi vyydib nj hvit izr kmjbmvhn ocvo ocz nduz
viy ocz bmjroc ja ocz Azyzmvg wpybzo cvn ovfzi ji v gdaz ja don jri.

Jiz xcvmvxozmdnodx ja ocznz kmjbmvhn dn ocvo oczdm xjno dixmzvnzn
vpojhvodxvggt zqzmt tzvm wzxvpnz ocz iphwzm ja kzjkgz zgdbdwgz ajm hjno ja
ocz wzizadon dixmzvnzn zqzmt tzvm. Rczi ocznz kmjbmvhn vmz zivxozy, oczmz
dn ij yjggvm vhjpio nzo. Ij jiz fijrn rcvo oczt rdgg xjno. Vgg rz fijr dn
ocvo rcvozqzm oczt xjno gvno tzvm, oczt rdgg xjno hjmz izso tzvm.

Do dn v lpznodji ja ndhkgz vmdochzodx. Pigznn rz xczxf ocz zsxznndqz bmjroc
ja Azyzmvg zskziydopmzn jm dhkjnz ji jpmnzgqzn hvoxcdib dixmzvnzn di ovszn,
rz rdgg xjiodipz oj mpi cpbz diagvodjivmt yzadxdon di ocz Azyzmvg wpybzo.

Da rz kmjezxo ocz xpmmzio wpdgo-di hjhzioph ja Azyzmvg nkziydib ocmjpbc ocz
izso 15 tzvmn, Novoz, Azyzmvg, viy gjxvg bjqzmihzio zskziydopmzn xjpgy
zvndgt xjhkmdnz cvga ja jpm bmjnn ivodjivg kmjypxo. Ocdn xjhkvmzn rdoc gznn
ocvi v ocdmy di 1975.

D cvqz epno xjixgpyzy ocz kmjxznn ja kmzkvmdib ocz wpybzo npwhdnndjin ajm
adnxvg tzvm 1976. Di ocvo wpybzo, D rdgg kmjkjnz gzbdngvodji oj mznomvdi
ocz bmjroc ja v iphwzm ja zsdnodib kmjbmvhn. D cvqz vgnj xjixgpyzy ocvo ij
izr nkziydib kmjbmvhn xvi wz didodvozy ocdn tzvm, zsxzko ajm zizmbt.
Apmoczm, D rdgg ijo czndovoz oj qzoj vit izr nkziydib kmjbmvhn vyjkozy wt
ocz Xjibmznn.

Vn vi vyydodjivg nozk ojrvmy kpoodib ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio'n cjpnz di
jmyzm, D mzxjhhziy v 5-kzmxzio gdhdo ji Azyzmvg kvt dixmzvnzn di 1975. Di
vgg Bjqzmihzio kmjbmvhn odzy oj ocz Xjinphzm Kmdxz Diyzs--dixgpydib njxdvg
nzxpmdot, xdqdg nzmqdxz viy hdgdovmt mzodmzhzio kvt, viy ajjy novhkn--D
vgnj kmjkjnz v 1-tzvm hvsdhph dixmzvnz ja 5 kzmxzio.

Ijiz ja ocznz mzxjhhziyzy xzdgdib gdhdovodjin, jqzm rcdxc Xjibmznn cvn
adivg vpocjmdot, vmz zvnt oj kmjkjnz, wzxvpnz di hjno xvnzn oczt diqjgqz
viodxdkvozy kvthzion oj hvit, hvit yznzmqdib kzjkgz. Ijizoczgznn, do hpno
wz yjiz. D hpno zhkcvnduz ocvo D vh ijo vnfdib oj zgdhdivoz, oj mzypxz, oj
amzzuz ocznz kvthzion. D vh hzmzgt mzxjhhziydib ocvo rz ngjr yjri ocz mvoz
vo rcdxc ocznz kvthzion dixmzvnz viy ocznz kmjbmvhn bmjr.

Jigt v mzypxodji di ocz bmjroc ja nkziydib xvi fzzk Azyzmvg wjmmjrdib yjri
viy mzypxz ocz yvhvbz oj ocz kmdqvoz nzxojm amjh cdbc diozmzno mvozn. Jigt
v mzypxodji di nkziydib xvi hvfz do kjnndwgz ajm ocz Azyzmvg Mznzmqz Ntnozh
oj vqjdy vi diagvodjivmt bmjroc di ocz hjizt npkkgt viy ocpn mznojmz
wvgvixz oj jpm zxjijht. V hvejm mzypxodji di ocz bmjroc ja Azyzmvg nkziydib
xvi czgk ydnkzg ocz pixzmovdiot ocvo nj hvit azzg vwjpo jpm zxjijht viy kpo
pn ji ocz rvt oj xpmdib jpm zxjijhdx dggn.

Da rz yji'o vxo oj ngjr yjri ocz mvoz ja dixmzvnz di Azyzmvg nkziydib, ocz
Pidozy Novozn Omzvnpmt rdgg wz gzbvggt jwgdbvozy oj nkziy hjmz ocvi $360
wdggdji di adnxvg tzvm 1976, zqzi da ij izr kmjbmvhn vmz zivxozy. Ocznz vmz
ijo hvoozmn ja xjiezxopmz jm kmzydxodji, wpo vbvdi, v hvoozm ja ndhkgz
vmdochzodx. Ocz nduz ja ocznz iphwzmn viy oczdm dhkgdxvodjin ajm jpm
zqzmtyvt gdaz viy ocz czvgoc ja jpm zxjijhdx ntnozh vmz ncjxfdib.

D npwhdoozy oj ocz gvno Xjibmznn v gdno ja wpybzo yzazmmvgn viy
mznxdnndjin. Oczmz rdgg wz hjmz xpon mzxjhhziyzy di ocz wpybzo ocvo D rdgg
npwhdo. Zqzi nj, ocz gzqzg ja jpogvtn ajm adnxvg tzvm 1976 dn nodgg hpxc,
hpxc ojj cdbc. Ijo jigt dn do ojj cdbc ajm ocdn tzvm wpo ocz yzxdndjin rz
hvfz ijr rdgg dizqdovwgt cvqz v hvejm viy bmjrdib dhkvxo ji zskziydopmz
gzqzgn di apopmz tzvmn. D ocdif ocdn dn v qzmt apiyvhziovg dnnpz ocvo rz,
ocz Xjibmznn viy D, hpno ejdiogt njgqz.

Zxjijhdx ydnmpkodjin rz viy joczmn vmz zskzmdzixdib nozh di kvmo amjh ocz
avxo ocvo ocz rjmgy kmdxz ja kzomjgzph cvn lpvympkgzy di ocz gvno tzvm. Wpo
di vgg cjiznot, rz xviijo kpo vgg ja ocz wgvhz ji ocz jdg-zskjmodib
ivodjin. Rz, ocz Pidozy Novozn, vmz ijo wgvhzgznn. Jpm bmjrdib yzkziyzixz
pkji ajmzdbi njpmxzn cvn wzzi vyydib oj jpm qpgizmvwdgdot ajm tzvmn viy
tzvmn, viy rz ydy ijocdib oj kmzkvmz jpmnzgqzn ajm npxc vi zqzio vn ocz
zhwvmbj ja 1973.

Ypmdib ocz 1960'n, ocdn xjpiomt cvy v npmkgpn xvkvxdot ja xmpyz jdg rcdxc
rz rzmz vwgz oj hvfz vqvdgvwgz oj jpm omvydib kvmoizmn rczizqzm oczmz rvn v
ydnmpkodji ja npkkgt. Ocdn npmkgpn xvkvxdot zivwgzy pn oj diagpzixz wjoc
npkkgdzn viy kmdxzn ja xmpyz jdg ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy. Jpm zsxznn xvkvxdot
izpomvgduzy vit zaajmo vo znovwgdncdib vi zaazxodqz xvmozg, viy ocpn ocz
mzno ja ocz rjmgy rvn vnnpmzy ja vyzlpvoz npkkgdzn ja jdg vo mzvnjivwgz
kmdxzn.

Wt 1970, jpm npmkgpn xvkvxdot cvy qvidnczy, viy vn v xjinzlpzixz, ocz
gvozio kjrzm ja ocz jdg xvmozg xjpgy zhzmbz di apgg ajmxz. Zpmjkz viy
Evkvi, wjoc czvqdgt yzkziyzio ji dhkjmozy jdg, ijr nompbbgz oj fzzk oczdm
zxjijhdzn di wvgvixz. Zqzi ocz Pidozy Novozn, jpm xjpiomt, rcdxc dn avm
hjmz nzga-npaadxdzio ocvi hjno joczm diypnomdvg xjpiomdzn, cvn wzzi .kpo
piyzm nzmdjpn kmznnpmz.

D vh kmjkjndib v kmjbmvh rcdxc rdgg wzbdi oj mznojmz jpm xjpiomt'n npmkgpn
xvkvxdot di ojovg zizmbt. Di ocdn rvt, rz rdgg wz vwgz oj vnnpmz jpmnzgqzn
mzgdvwgz viy vyzlpvoz zizmbt viy czgk ajnozm v izr rjmgy zizmbt novwdgdot
ajm joczm hvejm xjinphdib ivodjin.

Wpo ocdn Ivodji viy, di avxo, ocz rjmgy hpno avxz ocz kmjnkzxo ja zizmbt
ydaadxpgodzn wzorzzi ijr viy 1985. Ocdn kmjbmvh rdgg dhkjnz wpmyzin ji vgg
ja pn rdoc ocz vdh ja mzypxdib jpm xjinphkodji ja zizmbt viy dixmzvndib jpm
kmjypxodji. Bmzvo vooziodji cvn wzzi kvdy oj ocz xjindyzmvodjin ja
avdmiznn, viy D xvi vnnpmz tjp ocvo ocz wpmyzin rdgg ijo avgg hjmz cvmncgt
ji ocjnz gznn vwgz oj wzvm oczh.

D vh mzxjhhziydib v kgvi oj hvfz pn diqpgizmvwgz oj xpojaan ja ajmzdbi jdg.
Do rdgg mzlpdmz nvxmdadxzn, wpo do--viy ocdn dn hjno dhkjmovio--do rdgg
rjmf.

D cvqz nzo ocz ajggjrdib ivodjivg zizmbt bjvgn oj vnnpmz ocvo jpm apopmz dn
vn nzxpmz viy vn kmjypxodqz vn jpm kvno:

Admno, rz hpno mzypxz jdg dhkjmon wt 1 hdggdji wvmmzgn kzm yvt wt ocz ziy
ja ocdn tzvm viy wt 2 hdggdji wvmmzgn kzm yvt wt ocz ziy ja 1977.

Nzxjiy, rz hpno ziy qpgizmvwdgdot oj zxjijhdx ydnmpkodji wt ajmzdbi
npkkgdzmn wt 1985.

Ocdmy, rz hpno yzqzgjk jpm zizmbt ozxcijgjbt viy mznjpmxzn nj ocvo ocz
Pidozy Novozn cvn ocz vwdgdot oj npkkgt v ndbidadxvio ncvmz ja ocz zizmbt
izzyn ja ocz amzz rjmgy wt ocz ziy ja ocdn xziopmt.

Oj voovdi ocznz jwezxodqzn, rz izzy dhhzydvoz vxodji oj xpo dhkjmon.
Piajmopivozgt, di ocz ncjmo ozmh oczmz vmz jigt v gdhdozy iphwzm ja vxodjin
rcdxc xvi dixmzvnz yjhznodx npkkgt. D rdgg kmznn ajm vgg ja oczh.

D pmbz lpdxf vxodji ji ocz izxznnvmt gzbdngvodji oj vggjr xjhhzmxdvg
kmjypxodji vo ocz Zgf Cdggn, Xvgdajmidv, Ivqvg Kzomjgzph Mznzmqz. Di jmyzm
ocvo rz hvfz bmzvozm pnz ja yjhznodx xjvg mznjpmxzn, D vh npwhdoodib
vhziyhzion oj ocz Zizmbt Npkkgt viy Ziqdmjihziovg Xjjmydivodji Vxo rcdxc
rdgg bmzvogt dixmzvnz ocz iphwzm ja kjrzmkgvion ocvo xvi wz kmjhkogt
xjiqzmozy oj xjvg.

Jwqdjpngt, qjgpiovmt xjinzmqvodji xjiodipzn oj wz znnziodvg, wpo ojpbczm
kmjbmvhn vmz izzyzy--viy izzyzy ijr. Oczmzajmz, D vh pndib Kmzndyziodvg
kjrzmn oj mvdnz ocz azz ji vgg dhkjmozy xmpyz jdg viy kzomjgzph kmjypxon.
Ocz xmpyz jdg azz gzqzg rdgg wz dixmzvnzy $1 kzm wvmmzg ji Azwmpvmt 1, wt
$2 kzm wvmmzg ji Hvmxc 1, viy wt $3 kzm wvmmzg ji Vkmdg 1. D rdgg ovfz
vxodjin oj mzypxz piypz cvmyncdkn ji vit bzjbmvkcdxvg mzbdji. Ocz ajmzbjdib
vmz diozmdh vyhdidnomvodqz vxodjin. Oczt rdgg wz mznxdiyzy rczi ocz wmjvyzm
wpo izxznnvmt gzbdngvodji dn zivxozy.

Oj ocvo ziy, D vh mzlpznodib ocz Xjibmznn oj vxo rdocdi 90 yvtn ji v hjmz
xjhkmzczindqz zizmbt ovs kmjbmvh. Do dixgpyzn: zsxdnz ovszn viy dhkjmo azzn
ojovgdib $2 kzm wvmmzg ji kmjypxo dhkjmon viy ji vgg xmpyz jdg;
yzmzbpgvodji ja izr ivopmvg bvn viy zivxohzio ja v ivopmvg bvn zsxdnz ovs.

D kgvi oj ovfz Kmzndyziodvg didodvodqz oj yzxjiomjg ocz kmdxz ja yjhznodx
xmpyz jdg ji Vkmdg 1. D pmbz ocz Xjibmznn oj zivxo v rdiyavgg kmjadon ovs
wt ocvo yvoz oj zinpmz ocvo jdg kmjypxzmn yj ijo kmjado piypgt.

Ocz njjizm Xjibmznn vxon, ocz hjmz zaazxodqz ocz jdg xjinzmqvodji kmjbmvh
rdgg wz viy ocz lpdxfzm ocz Azyzmvg mzqzipzn xvi wz mzopmizy oj jpm
kzjkgz.

D vh kmzkvmzy oj pnz Kmzndyziodvg vpocjmdot oj gdhdo dhkjmon, vn izxznnvmt,
oj bpvmviozz npxxznn.

D rvio tjp oj fijr ocvo wzajmz yzxdydib ji ht zizmbt xjinzmqvodji kmjbmvh,
D xjindyzmzy mvodjidib viy cdbczm bvnjgdiz ovszn vn vgozmivodqzn. Di ht
epybhzio, izdoczm rjpgy vxcdzqz ocz yzndmzy mznpgon viy wjoc rjpgy kmjypxz
pivxxzkovwgz dizlpdodzn.

V hvnndqz kmjbmvh hpno wz didodvozy oj dixmzvnz zizmbt npkkgt, oj xpo
yzhviy, viy kmjqdyz izr noviywt zhzmbzixt kmjbmvhn oj vxcdzqz ocz
diyzkziyzixz rz rvio wt 1985. Ocz gvmbzno kvmo ja dixmzvnzy jdg kmjypxodji
hpno xjhz amjh izr amjiodzm vmzvn ji ocz Jpozm Xjiodiziovg Nczga viy amjh
ocz Ivqvg Kzomjgzph Mznzmqz Ij. 4 di Vgvnfv. Do dn ocz diozio ja ocdn
Vyhdidnomvodji oj hjqz vczvy rdoc zskgjmvodji, gzvndib, viy kmjypxodji ji
ocjnz amjiodzm vmzvn ja ocz Jpozm Xjiodiziovg Nczga rczmz ocz ziqdmjihziovg
mdnfn vmz vxxzkovwgz.

Pnz ja jpm hjno vwpiyvio yjhznodx mznjpmxz--xjvg--dn nzqzmzgt gdhdozy. Rz
hpno nomdfz v mzvnjivwgz xjhkmjhdnz ji ziqdmjihziovg xjixzmin rdoc xjvg. D
vh npwhdoodib Xgzvi Vdm vhziyhzion rcdxc rdgg vggjr bmzvozm xjvg pnz
rdocjpo nvxmdadxdib xgzvi vdm bjvgn.

D qzojzy ocz nomdk hdidib gzbdngvodji kvnnzy wt ocz gvno Xjibmznn. Rdoc
vkkmjkmdvoz xcvibzn, D rdgg ndbi v mzqdnzy qzmndji rczi do xjhzn oj ocz
Rcdoz Cjpnz.

D vh kmjkjndib v iphwzm ja vxodjin oj zizmbduz jpm ipxgzvm kjrzm kmjbmvh. D
rdgg npwhdo gzbdngvodji oj zskzydoz ipxgzvm gzvndib viy ocz
mvkdy nzgzxodji ja ndozn.

Di mzxzio hjiocn, podgdodzn cvqz xvixzggzy jm kjnokjizy jqzm 60 kzmxzio ja
kgviizy ipxgzvm zskvindji viy 30 kzmxzio ja kgviizy vyydodjin oj
iji-ipxgzvm xvkvxdot. Adivixdib kmjwgzhn ajm ocvo diypnomt vmz rjmnzidib. D
vh oczmzajmz mzxjhhziydib ocvo ocz 1-tzvm diqznohzio ovs xmzydo ja 12
kzmxzio wz zsoziyzy vi vyydodjivg 2 tzvmn oj nkzxdadxvggt nkzzy ocz
xjinompxodji ja kjrzmkgvion ocvo yj ijo pnz ivopmvg bvn jm jdg. D vh vgnj
npwhdoodib kmjkjnvgn ajm nzgzxodqz mzajmh ja Novoz podgdot xjhhdnndji
mzbpgvodjin.

Oj kmjqdyz ocz xmdodxvg novwdgdot ajm jpm yjhznodx zizmbt kmjypxodji di ocz
avxz ja rjmgy kmdxz pixzmovdiot, D rdgg mzlpzno gzbdngvodji oj vpocjmduz
viy mzlpdmz ovmdaan, dhkjmo lpjovn, jm kmdxz agjjmn oj kmjozxo jpm zizmbt
kmdxzn vo gzqzgn rcdxc rdgg vxcdzqz zizmbt diyzkziyzixz.

Dixmzvndib zizmbt npkkgdzn dn ijo zijpbc. Rz hpno ovfz vyydodjivg nozkn oj
xpo gjib-ozmh xjinphkodji. D oczmzajmz kmjkjnz oj ocz Xjibmznn: gzbdngvodji
oj hvfz oczmhvg zaadxdzixt noviyvmyn hviyvojmt ajm vgg izr wpdgydibn di ocz
Pidozy Novozn; v izr ovs xmzydo ja pk oj $150 ajm ocjnz cjhzjrizmn rcj
dinovgg dinpgvodji zlpdkhzio; ocz znovwgdnchzio ja vi zizmbt xjinzmqvodji
kmjbmvh oj czgk gjr-dixjhz avhdgdzn kpmxcvnz dinpgvodji npkkgdzn;
gzbdngvodji oj hjydat viy yzazm vpojhjodqz kjggpodji noviyvmyn ajm 5 tzvmn,
rcdxc rdgg zivwgz pn oj dhkmjqz vpojhjwdgz bvn hdgzvbz wt 40 kzmxzio wt
1980.

Ocznz kmjkjnvgn viy vxodjin, xphpgvodqzgt, xvi mzypxz jpm yzkziyzixz ji
ajmzdbi zizmbt npkkgdzn amjh 3 oj 5 hdggdji wvmmzgn kzm yvt wt 1985. Oj
hvfz ocz Pidozy Novozn diqpgizmvwgz oj ajmzdbi ydnmpkodji, D kmjkjnz
noviywt zhzmbzixt gzbdngvodji viy v nomvozbdx nojmvbz kmjbmvh ja 1 wdggdji
wvmmzgn ja jdg ajm yjhznodx izzyn viy 300 hdggdji wvmmzgn ajm ivodjivg
yzazinz kpmkjnzn.

D rdgg vnf ajm ocz apiyn izzyzy ajm zizmbt mznzvmxc viy yzqzgjkhzio
vxodqdodzn. D cvqz znovwgdnczy v bjvg ja 1 hdggdji wvmmzgn ja ntioczodx
apzgn viy ncvgz jdg kmjypxodji kzm yvt wt 1985 ojbzoczm rdoc vi dixziodqz
kmjbmvh oj vxcdzqz do.

D cvqz v qzmt yzzk wzgdza di Vhzmdxv'n xvkvwdgdodzn. Rdocdi ocz izso 10
tzvmn, ht kmjbmvh ziqdndjin: 200 hvejm ipxgzvm kjrzmkgvion; 250 hvejm izr
xjvg hdizn; 150 hvejm xjvg-admzy kjrzmkgvion; 30 hvejm izr mzadizmdzn; 20
hvejm izr ntioczodx apzg kgvion; ocz ymdggdib ja hvit ocjpnviyn ja izr
jdg rzggn; ocz dinpgvodji ja 18 hdggdji cjhzn; viy ocz hvipavxopmdib
viy ocz nvgz ja hdggdjin ja izr vpojhjwdgzn, ompxfn, viy wpnzn ocvo
pnz hpxc gznn apzg.

D cvkkzi oj wzgdzqz ocvo rz xvi yj do. Di vijoczm xmdndn--ocz jiz di 1942
Kmzndyzio Amvifgdi Y. Mjjnzqzgo nvdy ocdn xjpiomt rjpgy wpdgy 60,000
hdgdovmt vdmxmvao. Wt 1943, kmjypxodji di ocvo kmjbmvh cvy mzvxczy
125,000 vdmxmvao viipvggt. Oczt ydy do oczi. Rz xvi yj do ijr.

Da ocz Xjibmznn viy ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz rdgg rjmf rdoc hz oj voovdi ocznz
ovmbzon, oczt rdgg wz vxcdzqzy viy rdgg wz npmkvnnzy. Amjh vyqzmndot, gzo
pn nzduz jkkjmopidot. Mzqzipzn ja njhz $30 wdggdji amjh cdbczm zizmbt ovszn
yzndbizy oj zixjpmvbz xjinzmqvodji hpno wz mzapiyzy oj ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz
di v hviizm rcdxc xjmmzxon ydnojmodjin di jpm ovs ntnozh rmjpbco wt
diagvodji.

Kzjkgz cvqz wzzi kpnczy dioj cdbczm ovs wmvxfzon wt diagvodji, rdoc
xjinzlpzio mzypxodji di oczdm vxopvg nkziydib kjrzm. Wpndiznn ovszn vmz
ndhdgvmgt ydnojmozy wzxvpnz diagvodji zsvbbzmvozn mzkjmozy kmjadon,
mznpgodib di zsxznndqz ovszn.

Vxxjmydibgt, D kmjkjnz ocvo apopmz diydqdypvg dixjhz ovszn wz mzypxzy wt
$16.5 wdggdji. Ocdn rdgg wz yjiz wt mvdndib ocz gjr-dixjhz vggjrvixz viy
mzypxdib ovs mvozn. Ocdn xjiodipdib ovs xpo rdgg kmdhvmdgt wzizado gjrzm-
viy hdyygz-dixjhz ovskvtzmn.

Ajm zsvhkgz, v otkdxvg avhdgt ja ajpm rdoc v bmjnn dixjhz ja $5,600 ijr
kvtn $185 di Azyzmvg dixjhz ovszn. Piyzm ocdn ovs xpo kgvi, oczt rjpgy kvt
ijocdib. V avhdgt ja ajpm rdoc v bmjnn dixjhz ja $12,500 ijr kvtn $1,260 di
Azyzmvg ovszn. Ht kmjkjnvg mzypxzn ocvo ojovg wt $300. Avhdgdzn bmjnndib
$20,000 rjpgy mzxzdqz v mzypxodji ja $210.

Ocjnz rdoc ocz qzmt gjrzno dixjhzn, rcj xvi gzvno vaajmy cdbczm xjnon, hpno
vgnj wz xjhkzinvozy. D kmjkjnz v kvthzio ja $80 oj zqzmt kzmnji 18 tzvmn ja
vbz viy jgyzm di ocvo qzmt gdhdozy xvozbjmt.

Novoz viy gjxvg bjqzmihzion rdgg mzxzdqz $2 wdggdji di vyydodjivg mzqzipz
ncvmdib oj jaanzo oczdm dixmzvnzy zizmbt xjnon.

Oj jaanzo diagvodjivmt ydnojmodjin viy oj bzizmvoz hjmz zxjijhdx vxodqdot,
ocz xjmkjmvoz ovs mvoz rdgg wz mzypxzy amjh 48 kzmxzio oj 42 kzmxzio.

Ijr gzo hz opmi, da D hdbco, oj ocz diozmivodjivg ydhzindji ja ocz kmznzio
xmdndn. Vo ij odhz di jpm kzvxzodhz cdnojmt cvn ocz novoz ja ocz Ivodji
yzkziyzy hjmz czvqdgt ji ocz novoz ja ocz rjmgy. Viy nzgyjh, da zqzm, cvn
ocz novoz ja ocz rjmgy yzkziyzy hjmz czvqdgt ji ocz novoz ja jpm Ivodji.

Ocz zxjijhdx ydnomznn dn bgjwvg. Rz rdgg ijo njgqz do vo cjhz pigznn rz
czgk oj mzhzyt ocz kmjajpiy zxjijhdx ydngjxvodji vwmjvy. Rjmgy omvyz viy
hjizovmt nompxopmz kmjqdyzn hvmfzon, zizmbt, ajjy, viy qdovg mvr
hvozmdvgn--ajm vgg ivodjin. Ocdn diozmivodjivg ntnozh dn ijr di ezjkvmyt.

Ocdn Ivodji xvi wz kmjpy ja ndbidadxvio vxcdzqzhzion di mzxzio tzvmn di
njgqdib kmjwgzhn viy xmdnzn. Ocz Wzmgdi vbmzzhzio, ocz NVGO vbmzzhzion, jpm
izr mzgvodjincdk rdoc Xcdiv, ocz pikmzxzyziozy zaajmon di ocz Hdyygz Zvno
vmz dhhzinzgt zixjpmvbdib. Wpo ocz rjmgy dn ijo amzz amjh xmdndn. Di v
rjmgy ja 150 ivodjin, rczmz ipxgzvm ozxcijgjbt dn kmjgdazmvodib viy
mzbdjivg xjiagdxon xjiodipz, diozmivodjivg nzxpmdot xviijo wz ovfzi ajm
bmviozy.

Nj, gzo oczmz wz ij hdnovfz vwjpo do: Diozmivodjivg xjjkzmvodji dn v qdovg
avxojm ja jpm gdqzn ojyvt. Ocdn dn ijo v hjhzio ajm ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz oj
opmi dirvmy. Hjmz ocvi zqzm wzajmz, jpm jri rzgg-wzdib yzkziyn ji Vhzmdxv'n
yzozmhdivodji viy Vhzmdxv'n gzvyzmncdk di ocz rcjgz rdyz rjmgy.

Rz vmz v bmzvo Ivodji--nkdmdopvggt, kjgdodxvggt, hdgdovmdgt,
ydkgjhvodxvggt, viy zxjijhdxvggt. Vhzmdxv'n xjhhdohzio oj diozmivodjivg
nzxpmdot cvn npnovdizy ocz nvazot ja vggdzn viy amdziyn di hvit vmzvn--di
ocz Hdyygz Zvno, di Zpmjkz, viy di Vndv. Jpm opmidib vrvt rjpgy pigzvnc izr
dinovwdgdodzn, izr yvibzmn vmjpiy ocz bgjwz, rcdxc, di opmi, rjpgy ocmzvozi
jpm jri nzxpmdot.

Vo ocz ziy ja Rjmgy Rvm DD, rz opmizy v ndhdgvm xcvggzibz dioj vi cdnojmdx
jkkjmopidot viy, D hdbco vyy, vi cdnojmdx vxcdzqzhzio. Vi jgy jmyzm rvn di
ydnvmmvt; kjgdodxvg viy zxjijhdx dinodopodjin rzmz ncvoozmzy. Di ocvo
kzmdjy, ocdn Ivodji viy don kvmoizmn wpdgo izr dinodopodjin, izr hzxcvidnhn
ja hpopvg npkkjmo viy xjjkzmvodji. Ojyvt, vn oczi, rz avxz vi cdnojmdx
jkkjmopidot. Da rz vxo dhvbdivodqzgt viy wjgygt, vn rz vxozy oczi, ocdn
kzmdjy rdgg di mzomjnkzxo wz nzzi vn jiz ja ocz bmzvo xmzvodqz hjhzion ja
jpm Ivodji'n cdnojmt. Ocz rcjgz rjmgy dn rvoxcdib oj nzz cjr rz mznkjiy.

V mznpmbzio Vhzmdxvi zxjijht rjpgy yj hjmz oj mznojmz ocz xjiadyzixz ja ocz
rjmgy di don jri apopmz ocvi vitocdib zgnz rz xvi yj. Ocz kmjbmvh ocvo ocdn
Xjibmznn kvnnzn xvi yzhjinomvoz oj ocz rjmgy ocvo rz cvqz novmozy oj kpo
jpm jri cjpnz di jmyzm. Da rz xvi ncjr ocvo ocdn Ivodji dn vwgz viy rdggdib
oj czgk joczm ivodjin hzzo ocz xjhhji xcvggzibz, do xvi yzhjinomvoz ocvo
ocz Pidozy Novozn rdgg apgadgg don mznkjindwdgdodzn vn v gzvyzm vhjib
ivodjin.

Lpdoz amvifgt, vo novfz dn ocz apopmz ja diypnomdvgduzy yzhjxmvxdzn, rcdxc
cvqz kzmxzdqzy oczdm yznodit di xjhhji viy npnovdizy do di xjhhji ajm 30
tzvmn.

Ocz yzqzgjkdib ivodjin vmz vgnj vo v opmidib kjdio. Ocz kjjmzno ivodjin nzz
oczdm cjkzn ja azzydib oczdm cpibmt viy yzqzgjkdib oczdm njxdzodzn
ncvoozmzy wt ocz zxjijhdx xmdndn. Ocz gjib-ozmh zxjijhdx apopmz ajm ocz
kmjypxzmn ja mvr hvozmdvgn vgnj yzkziyn ji xjjkzmvodqz njgpodjin.

Jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Xjhhpidno xjpiomdzn vmz v wvndx avxojm ja ocz rjmgy
ziqdmjihzio. Rz hpno nzzf oj wpdgy v gjib-ozmh wvndn ajm xjzsdnozixz. Rz
rdgg noviy wt jpm kmdixdkgzn. Rz rdgg noviy wt jpm diozmznon. Rz rdgg vxo
admhgt rczi xcvggzibzy. Ocz fdiy ja v rjmgy rz rvio yzkziyn ji v wmjvy
kjgdxt ja xmzvodib hpopvg dixziodqzn ajm mznomvdio viy ajm xjjkzmvodji.

Vn rz hjqz ajmrvmy oj hzzo jpm bgjwvg xcvggzibzn viy jkkjmopidodzn, rz hpno
cvqz ocz ojjgn oj yj ocz ejw.

Jpm hdgdovmt ajmxzn vmz nomjib viy mzvyt. Ocdn hdgdovmt nomziboc yzozmn
vbbmznndji vbvdino jpm vggdzn, novwdgduzn jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ajmhzm
vyqzmnvmdzn, viy kmjozxon jpm cjhzgviy. Apggt vyzlpvoz xjiqziodjivg viy
nomvozbdx ajmxzn xjno hvit, hvit wdggdjin, wpo ocznz yjggvmn vmz njpiy
dinpmvixz ajm jpm nvazot viy ajm v hjmz kzvxzapg rjmgy.

Hdgdovmt nomziboc vgjiz dn ijo npaadxdzio. Zaazxodqz ydkgjhvxt dn vgnj
znnziodvg di kmzqziodib xjiagdxo, di wpdgydib rjmgy piyzmnoviydib. Ocz
Qgvydqjnojf izbjodvodjin rdoc ocz Njqdzo Pidji mzkmznzio v hvejm nozk di
hjyzmvodib nomvozbdx vmhn xjhkzododji. Ht mzxzio ydnxpnndjin rdoc ocz
gzvyzmn ja ocz Vogviodx xjhhpidot, Evkvi, viy Njpoc Fjmzv cvqz xjiomdwpozy
oj hzzodib ocz xjhhji xcvggzibz.

Wpo rz cvqz nzmdjpn kmjwgzhn wzajmz pn ocvo mzlpdmz xjjkzmvodji wzorzzi ocz
Kmzndyzio viy ocz Xjibmznn. Wt ocz Xjinodopodji viy omvydodji, ocz
zszxpodji ja ajmzdbi kjgdxt dn ocz mznkjindwdgdot ja ocz Kmzndyzio.

Di mzxzio tzvmn, piyzm ocz nomznn ja ocz Qdzoivh rvm, gzbdngvodqz
mznomdxodjin ji ocz Kmzndyzio'n vwdgdot oj zszxpoz ajmzdbi kjgdxt viy
hdgdovmt yzxdndjin cvqz kmjgdazmvozy. Vn v Hzhwzm ja ocz Xjibmznn, D
jkkjnzy njhz viy D vkkmjqzy joczmn. Vn Kmzndyzio, D rzgxjhz ocz vyqdxz viy
xjjkzmvodji ja ocz Cjpnz viy ocz Nzivoz.

Wpo da jpm ajmzdbi kjgdxt dn oj wz npxxznnapg, rz xviijo mdbdygt mznomdxo
di gzbdngvodji ocz vwdgdot ja ocz Kmzndyzio oj vxo. Ocz xjiypxo ja
izbjodvodjin dn dgg-npdozy oj npxc gdhdovodjin. Gzbdngvodqz mznomdxodjin,
dioziyzy ajm ocz wzno hjodqzn viy kpmkjnzn, xvi cvqz ocz jkkjndoz mznpgo,
vn rz cvqz nzzi hjno mzxziogt di jpm omvyz mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Njqdzo
Pidji.

Ajm ht kvmo, D kgzybz ocdn Vyhdidnomvodji rdgg vxo di ocz xgjnzno
xjinpgovodji rdoc ocz Xjibmznn vn rz avxz yzgdxvoz ndopvodjin viy omjpwgzy
odhzn ocmjpbcjpo ocz bgjwz.

Rczi D wzxvhz Kmzndyzio jigt 5 hjiocn vbj, D kmjhdnzy ocz gvno Xjibmznn v
kjgdxt ja xjhhpidxvodji, xjixdgdvodji, xjhkmjhdnz, viy xjjkzmvodji. D mzizr
ocvo kgzybz oj ocz izr Hzhwzmn ja ocdn Xjibmznn.

Gzo hz nph do pk. Vhzmdxv izzyn v izr ydmzxodji, rcdxc D cvqz njpbco oj
xcvmo czmz ojyvt--v xcvibz ja xjpmnz rcdxc rdgg: kpo ocz pizhkgjtzy wvxf oj
rjmf; dixmzvnz mzvg dixjhz viy kmjypxodji; mznomvdi ocz bmjroc ja Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio nkziydib; vxcdzqz zizmbt diyzkziyzixz; viy vyqvixz ocz xvpnz ja
rjmgy piyzmnoviydib.

Rz cvqz ocz vwdgdot. Rz cvqz ocz fijr-cjr. Di kvmoizmncdk rdoc ocz Vhzmdxvi
kzjkgz, rz rdgg vxcdzqz ocznz jwezxodqzn.

Vn jpm 200oc viidqzmnvmt vkkmjvxczn, rz jrz do oj jpmnzgqzn viy oj
kjnozmdot oj mzwpdgy jpm kjgdodxvg viy zxjijhdx nomziboc. Gzo pn hvfz
Vhzmdxv jixz vbvdi viy ajm xziopmdzn hjmz oj xjhz rcvo do cvn nj gjib
wzzi--v nomjibcjgy viy v wzvxji-gdbco ja gdwzmot ajm ocz rcjgz rjmgy.

Ocvif tjp.