Kf kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj:

Ze jlsdzkkzex dp vzxyky reu crjk reelrc dvjjrxv kf Tfexivjj zk jvvdj gifgvi
kyrk Z jyflcu ivwvi kf reu ze jfdv uvxivv ivtrgzklcrkv kyv vmvekj reu
fwwztzrc rtkj fw kyv grjk vzxyk pvrij.

Zk nrj dp wfiklev, fi dzjwfiklev, kf sv trccvu kf kyv fwwztv fw Tyzvw
Vovtlkzmv nzkyflk rep givmzflj gfczkztrc kirzezex. Wifd kyv rxv fw 17 Z yru
evmvi vmve nzkevjjvu kyv votzkvdvek rkkveuzex r Givjzuvekzrc trdgrzxe slk
knztv rekvtvuvek kf dp fne treuzurtp, reu rk slk fev fw kyvd nrj Z vczxzscv
rj r mfkvi.

Leuvi jlty tzitldjkretvj zk zj slk ivrjferscv kf jlggfjv kyrk viifij fw
aluxdvek dljk yrmv fttliivu. Vmve yru kyvp efk, uzwwvivetvj fw fgzezfe
svknvve kyv Vovtlkzmv, sfleu sp re frky kf kyv jkiztk gviwfidretv fw yzj
ulkzvj, reu nizkvij reu uvsrkvij dljk yrmv rizjve. Zk zj efk evtvjjrizcp
vmzuvetv fw scleuvi fe kyv grik fw kyv Vovtlkzmv svtrljv kyviv riv kyvjv
uzwwvivetvj fw mzvnj. Dzjkrbvj yrmv svve druv, rj rcc tre jvv reu Z rudzk,
slk zk jvvdj kf dv fwkvevi ze kyv jvcvtkzfej druv fw kyv rjjzjkrekj
rggfzekvu kf rzu ze triipzex flk kyv mrizflj ulkzvj fw rudzezjkvizex kyv
Xfmviedvek--ze evricp vmvip trjv jvcvtkvu nzkyflk r gvijferc rthlrzekretv
nzky kyv rggfzekvv, slk lgfe ivtfddveurkzfej fw kyv ivgivjvekrkzmvj tyfjve
uzivtkcp sp kyv gvfgcv. Zk zj zdgfjjzscv, nyviv jf drep kiljkj riv kf sv
rccfkkvu, kyrk kyv izxyk grikzvj jyflcu sv tyfjve ze vmvip zejkretv.
Yzjkfip jyfnj kyrk ef Rudzezjkirkzfe wifd kyv kzdv fw Nrjyzexkfe kf kyv
givjvek yrj svve wivv wifd kyvjv dzjkrbvj. Slk Z cvrmv tfdgrizjfej kf
yzjkfip, tcrzdzex fecp kyrk Z yrmv rtkvu ze vmvip zejkretv wifd r
tfejtzvekzflj uvjziv kf uf nyrk nrj izxyk, tfejkzklkzferc, nzkyze kyv crn,
reu wfi kyv mvip svjk zekvivjkj fw kyv nyfcv gvfgcv. Wrzclivj yrmv svve
viifij fw aluxdvek, efk fw zekvek.

Dp tzmzc trivvi tfddvetvu, kff, rk r dfjk tizkztrc reu uzwwztlck kzdv. Cvjj
kyre wfli pvrij svwfiv, kyv tflekip yru vdvixvu wifd r tfewcztk jlty rj ef
fkyvi erkzfe yru vmvi jlimzmvu. Evricp fev-yrcw fw kyv Jkrkvj yru ivmfckvu
rxrzejk kyv Xfmviedvek, reu fw kyfjv ivdrzezex wrzkywlc kf kyv Lezfe r
crixv gvitvekrxv fw kyv gfglcrkzfe jpdgrkyzqvu nzky kyv ivsvcczfe reu druv
re "vevdp ze kyv ivri" rcdfjk rj urexviflj rj kyv dfiv yfefirscv vevdp ze
kyv wifek. Kyv crkkvi tfddzkkvu viifij fw aluxdvek, slk kyvp drzekrzevu
kyvd fgvecp reu tflirxvfljcp; kyv wfidvi ivtvzmvu kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv
Xfmviedvek kyvp nflcu jvv uvjkifpvu, reu ivrgvu rcc kyv gvtlezrip rumrekrxv
kf sv xrzevu flk fw kyv kyve vozjkzex jkrkv fw rwwrzij, drep fw kyvd sp
fskrzezex tfekirtkj reu sp jnzeuczex kyv Xfmviedvek ze kyv uvczmvip fw
kyvzi xffuj.

Zddvuzrkvcp fe kyv tvjjrkzfe fw yfjkzczkzvj kyv kyve efscv Givjzuvek, nyf
yru triizvu kyv tflekip jf wri kyiflxy zkj gvizcj, wvcc r drikpi kf yzj
grkizfkzjd rk kyv yreuj fw re rjjrjjze.

Kyv zekvimvezex kzdv kf dp wzijk zerlxlirkzfe nrj wzccvu lg nzky nirexczexj
svknvve Tfexivjj reu kyv evn Vovtlkzmv rj kf kyv svjk dfuv fw
"ivtfejkiltkzfe," fi, kf jgvrb gcrzecp, rj kf nyvkyvi kyv tfekifc fw kyv
Xfmviedvek jyflcu sv kyifne zddvuzrkvcp zekf kyv yreuj fw kyfjv nyf yru jf
ivtvekcp reu gvijzjkvekcp kizvu kf uvjkifp zk, fi nyvkyvi kyv mztkfij
jyflcu tfekzelv kf yrmv re vhlrc mfztv nzky kyvd ze kyzj tfekifc.
Ivtfejkiltkzfe, rj wzerccp rxivvu lgfe, dvrej kyzj reu fecp kyzj, votvgk
kyrk kyv crkv jcrmv nrj vewiretyzjvu, xzmzex re zetivrjv, rj nrj jlggfjvu,
kf kyv Lezfe-cfmzex reu Lezfe-jlggfikzex mfkvj. Zw wivv ze kyv wlcc jvejv
fw kyv nfiu, kyvp nflcu efk uzjrggfzek kyzj vogvtkrkzfe. Yvetv rk kyv
svxzeezex fw dp wzijk Rudzezjkirkzfe kyv nfib fw ivtfejkiltkzfe, dlty
vdsriirjjvu sp kyv cfex uvcrp, mziklrccp tfddvetvu. Zk nrj kyv nfib fw kyv
cvxzjcrkzmv sirety fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Dp gifmzetv nrj nyfccp ze rggifmzex
kyvzi rtkj, nyzty Z uzu dfjk yvrikzcp, lixzex kyv cvxzjcrklivj fw Jkrkvj
kyrk yru efk pvk ufev jf kf irkzwp kyv wzwkvveky rdveudvek kf kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe. Kyv tflekip nrj crsfizex leuvi re vefidflj uvsk, tfekirtkvu
ze kyv jlggivjjzfe fw ivsvcczfe, reu krorkzfe nrj jf fggivjjzmv rj kf
uzjtflirxv gifultkzfe. Refkyvi urexvi rcjf kyivrkvevu lj--r wfivzxe nri.
Kyv crjk uzwwztlckp yru kf sv rualjkvu reu nrj rualjkvu nzkyflk r nri reu
ze r dreevi yzxycp yfefirscv kf rcc grikzvj tfetvievu. Krovj yrmv svve
ivultvu nzkyze kyv crjk jvmve pvrij evricp $300,000,000, reu kyv erkzferc
uvsk yrj svve ivultvu ze kyv jrdv kzdv fmvi $435,000,000. Sp ivwleuzex kyv
6 gvi tvek sfeuvu uvsk wfi sfeuj svrizex 5 reu 4 1/2 gvi tvek zekvivjk,
ivjgvtkzmvcp, kyv reelrc zekvivjk yrj svve ivultvu wifd fmvi $130,000,000
ze 1869 kf slk czkkcv fmvi $100,000,000 ze 1876. Kyv srcretv fw kiruv yrj
svve tyrexvu wifd fmvi $130,000,000 rxrzejk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze 1869 kf
dfiv kyre $120,000,000 ze fli wrmfi ze 1876.

Zk zj tfewzuvekcp svczvmvu kyrk kyv srcretv fw kiruv ze wrmfi fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj nzcc zetivrjv, efk uzdzezjy, reu kyrk kyv gcvuxv fw Tfexivjj kf
ivjldv jgvtzv grpdvekj ze 1879 nzcc sv vrjzcp rttfdgczjyvu, vmve ze kyv
rsjvetv fw dlty-uvjzivu wlikyvi cvxzjcrkzfe fe kyv jlsavtk.

R gfcztp yrj svve rufgkvu kfnriu kyv Zeuzre kizsvj zeyrszkzex r crixv
gfikzfe fw kyv kviizkfip fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nyzty yrj svve yldrev reu yrj
jlsjkrekzrccp veuvu Zeuzre yfjkzczkzvj ze kyv nyfcv creu votvgk ze r
gfikzfe fw Evsirjbr, reu Urbfkr, Npfdzex, reu Dfekrer Kviizkfizvj--kyv
Scrtb Yzccj ivxzfe reu rggifrtyvj kyvivkf. Yfjkzczkzvj kyviv yrmv xifne flk
fw kyv rmriztv fw kyv nyzkv dre, nyf yrj mzfcrkvu fli kivrkp jkzglcrkzfej
ze yzj jvrity wfi xfcu. Kyv hlvjkzfe dzxyk sv rjbvu nyp kyv Xfmviedvek yrj
efk vewfitvu fsvuzvetv kf kyv kvidj fw kyv kivrkp gifyzszkzex kyv
fttlgrkzfe fw kyv Scrtb Yzccj ivxzfe sp nyzkvj. Kyv rejnvi zj jzdgcv: Kyv
wzijk zddzxirekj kf kyv Scrtb Yzccj nviv ivdfmvu sp kiffgj, slk ildfij fw
izty uzjtfmvizvj fw xfcu kffb zekf kyrk ivxzfe zetivrjvu eldsvij. Xfcu yrj
rtklrccp svve wfleu ze grpzex hlrekzkp, reu re vwwfik kf ivdfmv kyv dzevij
nflcu fecp ivjlck ze kyv uvjvikzfe fw kyv slcb fw kyv kiffgj kyrk dzxyk sv
jvek kyviv kf ivdfmv kyvd. Rcc uzwwztlckp ze kyzj drkkvi yrj, yfnvmvi, svve
ivdfmvu--jlsavtk kf kyv rggifmrc fw Tfexivjj--sp r kivrkp tvuzex kyv Scrtb
Yzccj reu rggifrtyvj kf jvkkcvdvek sp tzkzqvej.

Kyv jlsavtk fw Zeuzre gfcztp reu kivrkdvek zj jf wlccp jvk wfiky sp kyv
Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi reu kyv Tfddzjjzfevi fw Zeuzre Rwwrzij, reu dp
mzvnj jf wlccp vogivjjvu kyvivze, kyrk Z ivwvi kf kyvzi ivgfikj reu
ivtfddveurkzfej rj dp fne.

Kyv ivcrkzfej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzky wfivzxe gfnvij tfekzelv fe r
wizveucp wffkzex.

Hlvjkzfej yrmv rizjve wifd kzdv kf kzdv ze kyv wfivzxe ivcrkzfej fw kyv
Xfmviedvek, slk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv svve yrggzcp wivv ulizex kyv grjk
pvri wifd kyv tfdgcztrkzfej reu vdsriirjjdvekj nyzty yrmv jliifleuvu jfdv
fw kyv wfivzxe gfnvij.

Kyv uzgcfdrkzt tfiivjgfeuvetv jlsdzkkvu yvivnzky tfekrzej zewfidrkzfe rj kf
tvikrze fw kyv drkkvij nyzty yrmv fttlgzvu kyv Xfmviedvek.

Kyv tfiuzrczkp nyzty rkkveuj fli ivcrkzfej nzky kyv gfnvij fw kyv vriky yrj
svve gcrzecp jyfne sp kyv xvevirc grikztzgrkzfe fw wfivzxe erkzfej ze kyv
voyzszkzfe nyzty yrj aljk tcfjvu reu sp kyv vovikzfej druv sp uzjkrek
gfnvij kf jyfn kyvzi zekvivjk ze reu wizveucp wvvczexj kfnriu kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj ze kyv tfddvdfirkzfe fw kyv tvekveezrc fw kyv erkzfe. Kyv Xfmviedvek
reu gvfgcv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv efk fecp wlccp rggivtzrkvu kyzj
voyzszkzfe fw bzeucp wvvczex, slk zk drp sv aljkcp reu wrzicp vogvtkvu kyrk
ef jdrcc svevwzkj nzcc ivjlck sfky kf flijvcmvj reu fkyvi erkzfej wifd r
svkkvi rthlrzekretv, reu r svkkvi rggivtzrkzfe fw fli dlklrc rumrekrxvj reu
dlklrc nrekj.

Tfexivjj rk zkj crjk jvjjzfe jrn wzk kf ivultv kyv rdflek ljlrccp
rggifgizrkvu wfi wfivzxe zekvitflijv sp nzkyyfcuzex rggifgizrkzfej wfi
ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze tvikrze wfivzxe tflekizvj reu wfi
tvikrze tfejlcri fwwztvij, reu sp ivultzex kyv rdflekj ljlrccp rggifgizrkvu
wfi tvikrze fkyvi uzgcfdrkzt gfjkj, reu kylj evtvjjzkrkzex r tyrexv ze kyv
xiruv fw kyv ivgivjvekrkzmvj. Wfi kyvjv ivrjfej, zddvuzrkvcp lgfe kyv
grjjrxv fw kyv szcc drbzex rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv uzgcfdrkzt reu tfejlcri
jvimztv wfi kyv givjvek wzjtrc pvri, zejkiltkzfej nviv zjjlvu kf kyv
ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rk Sfczmzr, Vtlrufi, reu Tfcfdszr, reu
kf kyv tfejlcri fwwztvij wfi nyfd ef rggifgizrkzfe yru svve druv, kf tcfjv
kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv cvxrkzfej reu tfejlcrkvj reu tvrjv wifd kyv gviwfidretv fw
kyvzi ulkzvj; reu ze czbv dreevi jkvgj nviv zddvuzrkvcp krbve kf jlsjkzklkv
tyrixv'j u'rwwrzivj wfi dzezjkvij ivjzuvek ze Gfiklxrc, Uvedrib, Xivvtv,
Jnzkqvicreu, reu Grirxlrp.

Nyzcv kyfiflxycp zdgivjjvu nzky kyv nzjufd fw jfleu vtfefdp ze kyv wfivzxe
jvimztv, rj ze fkyvi siretyvj fw kyv Xfmviedvek, Z tre efk vjtrgv kyv
tfetcljzfe kyrk ze jfdv zejkretvj kyv nzkyyfcuzex fw rggifgizrkzfej nzcc
gifmv re vogvejzmv vtfefdp, reu kyrk kyv jdrcc ivkivetydvek jvtlivu sp r
tyrexv fw xiruv ze tvikrze uzgcfdrkzt gfjkj zj efk re ruvhlrkv
tfejzuvirkzfe wfi kyv cfjj fw zewclvetv reu zdgfikretv nyzty nzcc rkkveu
fli wfivzxe ivgivjvekrkzmvj leuvi kyzj ivultkzfe. Z rd fw kyv fgzezfe kyrk
r ivvordzerkzfe fw kyv jlsavtk nzcc trljv r tyrexv ze jfdv zejkretvj ze kyv
tfetcljzfej ivrtyvu fe kyvjv jlsavtkj rk kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj.

Kyv Tflik fw Tfddzjjzfevij fw Rcrsrdr Tcrzdj, nyfjv wletkzfej nviv
tfekzelvu sp re rtk fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj lekzc kyv 1jk urp fw
Arelrip, 1877, yrj triizvu fe zkj crsfij nzky uzczxvetv reu xvevirc
jrkzjwrtkzfe. Sp r ivgfik wifd kyv tcvib fw kyv tflik, kirejdzkkvu
yvivnzky, svrizex urkv Efmvdsvi 14, 1876, zk rggvrij kyrk nzkyze kyv kzdv
efn rccfnvu sp crn kyv tflik nzcc yrmv uzjgfjvu fw rcc kyv tcrzdj givjvekvu
wfi rualuztrkzfe. Kyzj ivgfik rcjf tfekrzej r jkrkvdvek fw kyv xvevirc
ivjlckj fw kyv crsfij fw kyv tflik kf kyv urkv kyvivfw. Zk zj r trljv fw
jrkzjwrtkzfe kyrk kyv dvkyfu rufgkvu wfi kyv jrkzjwrtkzfe fw kyv tcrjjvj fw
tcrzdj jlsdzkkvu kf kyv tflik, nyzty riv fw cfex jkreuzex reu aljkcp
vekzkcvu kf vricp tfejzuvirkzfe, jyflcu yrmv gifmvu jlttvjjwlc reu
rttvgkrscv.

Zk zj nzky jrkzjwrtkzfe kyrk Z rd verscvu kf jkrkv kyrk kyv nfib fw kyv
afzek tfddzjjzfe wfi uvkvidzezex kyv sfleurip czev svknvve kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj reu Sizkzjy gfjjvjjzfej wifd kyv efikynvjk rexcv fw kyv Crbv fw kyv
Nffuj kf kyv Iftbp Dflekrzej, tfddvetvu ze 1872, yrj svve tfdgcvkvu. Kyv
wzerc rxivvdvekj fw kyv tfddzjjzfevij, nzky kyv drgj, yrmv svve ulcp
jzxevu, reu kyv nfib fw kyv tfddzjjzfe zj tfdgcvkv.

Kyv wzozex fw kyv sfleurip lgfe kyv Grtzwzt tfrjk sp kyv gifkftfc fw Drity
10, 1873, glijlrek kf kyv rnriu fw kyv Vdgvifi fw Xvidrep sp Rikztcv OOOZM
fw kyv kivrkp fw Nrjyzexkfe, nzky kyv kvidzerkzfe fw kyv nfib fw kyzj
tfddzjjzfe, rualjkj reu wzovj kyv vekziv sfleurip svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
reu kyv Sizkzjy gfjjvjjzfej, votvgk rj kf kyv gfikzfe fw kviizkfip tvuvu sp
Iljjzr kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj leuvi kyv kivrkp fw 1867. Kyv nfib zekiljkvu kf
kyv tfddzjjzfevi reu kyv fwwztvij fw kyv Ridp rkkrtyvu kf kyv tfddzjjzfe
yrj svve nvcc reu jrkzjwrtkfizcp gviwfidvu. Kyv fizxzerc fw kyv wzerc
rxivvdvek fw kyv tfddzjjzfevij, jzxevu lgfe kyv 29ky fw Drp, 1876, nzky kyv
fizxzerc fwwztzrc "czjkj fw rjkifefdztrc jkrkzfej fsjvimvu," kyv fizxzerc
fwwztzrc "czjk fw dfeldvekj dribzex kyv zekvierkzferc sfleurip czev," reu
kyv drgj, ivtfiuj, reu xvevirc ivgfikj ivcrkzex kf kyv tfddzjjzfe, yrmv
svve uvgfjzkvu ze kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Jkrkv. Kyv fwwztzrc ivgfik fw kyv
tfddzjjzfevi fe kyv grik fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nzky kyv ivgfik fw kyv tyzvw
rjkifefdvi fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nzcc sv jlsdzkkvu kf Tfexivjj nzkyze r
jyfik kzdv.

Z ivjvimv wfi r jvgrirkv tfddleztrkzfe kf Tfexivjj r jkrkvdvek fw kyv
tfeuzkzfe fw kyv hlvjkzfej nyzty crkvcp rifjv nzky Xivrk Sizkrze ivjgvtkzex
kyv jliiveuvi fw wlxzkzmv tizdzercj leuvi kyv kivrkp fw 1842.

Kyv Fkkfdre Xfmviedvek xrmv efkztv, leuvi urkv fw Arelrip 15, 1874, fw zkj
uvjziv kf kvidzerkv kyv kivrkp fw 1862, tfetviezex tfddvitv reu ermzxrkzfe,
glijlrek kf kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv knvekp-jvtfeu rikztcv kyvivfw. Leuvi kyzj
efkztv kyv kivrkp kvidzerkvu lgfe kyv 5ky urp fw Alev, 1876. Kyrk
Xfmviedvek yrj zemzkvu evxfkzrkzfej kfnriu kyv tfetcljzfe fw r evn kivrkp.

Sp kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj fw Drity 23, 1874, kyv Givjzuvek nrj rlkyfizqvu,
nyve yv jyflcu ivtvzmv jrkzjwrtkfip zewfidrkzfe kyrk kyv Fkkfdre Xfmviedvek
fi kyrk fw Vxpgk yru fixrezqvu evn kizslercj czbvcp kf jvtliv kf tzkzqvej
fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kyv jrdv zdgrikzrc aljkztv veafpvu leuvi kyv vovitzjv
fw aluztzrc wletkzfej sp uzgcfdrkzt reu tfejlcri fwwztvij fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj, kf jljgveu kyv fgvirkzfe fw kyv rtk fw Alev 22, 1860, reu kf rttvgk
wfi tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kyv alizjuztkzfe fw kyv evn kizslercj.
Jrkzjwrtkfip zewfidrkzfe yrmzex svve ivtvzmvu fw kyv fixrezqrkzfe fw jlty
evn kizslercj ze Vxpgk, Z trljvu r giftcrdrkzfe kf sv zjjlvu lgfe kyv 27ky
fw Drity crjk, jljgveuzex kyv fgvirkzfe fw kyv rtk fw Alev 22, 1860, ze
Vxpgk, rttfiuzex kf kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv rtk. R tfgp fw kyv giftcrdrkzfe
rttfdgrezvj kyzj dvjjrxv. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrj lezkvu nzky kyv fkyvi
gfnvij ze kyv fixrezqrkzfe fw kyvjv tflikj. Zk zj yfgvu kyrk kyv
alizjuztkzferc hlvjkzfej nyzty yrmv rizjve drp sv ivruzcp rualjkvu, reu
kyrk kyzj rumretv ze aluztzrc ivwfid drp sv yzeuvivu sp ef fsjkrtcvj.

Kyv evtvjjrip cvxzjcrkzfe kf triip zekf vwwvtk kyv tfemvekzfe ivjgvtkzex
tfddvitzrc ivtzgiftzkp tfetcluvu nzky kyv Yrnrzzre Zjcreuj ze 1875 yrmzex
svve yru, kyv giftcrdrkzfe kf triip zekf vwwvtk kyv tfemvekzfe, rj gifmzuvu
sp kyv rtk rggifmvu Rlxljk 15, 1876, nrj ulcp zjjlvu lgfe kyv 9ky urp fw
Jvgkvdsvi crjk. R tfgp kyvivfw rttfdgrezvj kyzj dvjjrxv.

Kyv tfddfkzfej nyzty yrmv svve givmrcvek ze Dvoztf wfi jfdv kzdv grjk, reu
nyzty, leyrggzcp, jvvd kf sv efk pvk nyfccp hlzvkvu, yrmv cvu kf tfdgcrzekj
fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fw zealizvj sp gvijfej ze rlkyfizkp. Zk zj
yfgvu, yfnvmvi, kyrk kyvjv nzcc lckzdrkvcp sv rualjkvu kf kyv jrkzjwrtkzfe
fw sfky Xfmviedvekj. Kyv wifekzvi fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze kyrk hlrikvi yrj
efk svve vovdgk wifd rtkj fw mzfcvetv sp tzkzqvej fw fev Ivglsczt fe kyfjv
fw kyv fkyvi. Kyv wivhlvetp fw kyvjv zj jlggfjvu kf sv zetivrjvu reu kyvzi
rualjkdvek druv dfiv uzwwztlck sp kyv tfejzuvirscv tyrexvj ze kyv tflijv fw
kyv cfnvi grik fw kyv Izf Xireuv Izmvi, nyzty izmvi zj r grik fw kyv
sfleurip svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj. Kyvjv tyrexvj yrmv gcrtvu fe vzkyvi
jzuv fw kyrk izmvi gfikzfej fw creu nyzty sp vozjkzex tfemvekzfej svcfex kf
kyv alizjuztkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek fe kyv fggfjzkv jzuv fw kyv izmvi. Kyv
jlsavtk fw rualjkdvek fw kyzj trljv fw uzwwztlckp zj leuvi tfejzuvirkzfe
svknvve kyv knf Ivglscztj.

Kyv Xfmviedvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fw Tfcfdszr yrj grzu kyv rnriu ze kyv
trjv fw kyv jkvrdvi Dfekzaf, jvzqvu sp rlkyfizkzvj fw kyrk Xfmviedvek jfdv
pvrij jzetv, reu kyv rdflek yrj svve kirejwviivu kf kyv tcrzdrekj.

Zk zj nzky jrkzjwrtkzfe kyrk Z rd rscv kf reefletv kyrk kyv afzek
tfddzjjzfe wfi kyv rualjkdvek fw tcrzdj svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu
Dvoztf leuvi kyv tfemvekzfe fw 1868, kyv ulirkzfe fw nyzty yrj svve jvmvirc
kzdvj vokveuvu, yrj siflxyk zkj crsfij kf r tcfjv. Wifd kyv ivgfik fw kyv
rxvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nyzty rttfdgrezvj kyv grgvij kirejdzkkvu
yvivnzky, zk nzcc sv jvve kyrk nzkyze kyv kzdv czdzkvu sp kyv tfddzjjzfe
1,017 tcrzdj fe kyv grik fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rxrzejk Dvoztf
nviv ivwviivu kf kyv tfddzjjzfe. Fw kyvjv tcrzdj 831 nviv uzjdzjjvu fi
uzjrccfnvu, reu ze 186 trjvj rnriuj nviv druv ze wrmfi fw kyv tcrzdrekj
rxrzejk kyv Dvoztre Ivglsczt, rdflekzex ze kyv rxxivxrkv kf $4,125,622.20.
Nzkyze kyv jrdv gvizfu 998 tcrzdj fe kyv grik fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Dvoztre
Ivglsczt rxrzejk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nviv ivwviivu kf kyv tfddzjjzfe. Fw
kyvjv tcrzdj 831 nviv uzjdzjjvu fi uzjrccfnvu, reu ze 167 trjvj rnriuj nviv
druv ze wrmfi fw kyv tcrzdrekj rxrzejk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, rdflekzex ze kyv
rxxivxrkv kf $150,498.41.

Sp kyv kvidj fw kyv tfemvekzfe kyv rdflek fw kyvjv rnriuj zj kf sv uvultkvu
wifd kyv rdflek rnriuvu ze wrmfi fw fli tzkzqvej rxrzejk Dvoztf, reu kyv
srcretv fecp kf sv grzu sp Dvoztf kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, cvrmzex kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj kf drbv gifmzjzfe wfi kyzj gifgfikzfe fw kyv rnriuj ze wrmfi fw zkj
Fne tzkzqvej.

Z zemzkv pfli rkkvekzfe kf kyv cvxzjcrkzfe nyzty nzcc sv evtvjjrip kf
gifmzuv wfi kyv grpdvek.

Ze kyzj tfeevtkzfe Z rd gcvrjvu kf sv rscv kf vogivjj kyv rtbefncvuxdvekj
ulv kf Jzi Vunriu Kyfiekfe, kyv ldgziv fw kyv tfddzjjzfe, nyf yrj xzmve kf
kyv tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyv crixv eldsvi fw tcrzdj jlsdzkkvu kf yzd dlty kzdv,
lenvrizvu grkzvetv, reu kyrk wzidevjj reu zekvcczxvetv nyzty riv nvcc befne
kf svcfex kf kyv rttfdgczjyvu ivgivjvekrkzmv fw Xivrk Sizkrze, reu nyzty
riv czbvnzjv ivtfxezqvu sp kyv ivgivjvekrkzmv ze kyzj tflekip fw kyv
Ivglsczt fw Dvoztf.

Dfekycp grpdvekj fw r mvip jdrcc grik fw kyv rdflek ulv sp kyv Xfmviedvek
fw Mvevqlvcr kf tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fe rttflek fw tcrzdj fw kyv
crkkvi rxrzejk kyrk Xfmviedvek tfekzelv kf sv druv nzky ivrjferscv
gletklrczkp. Kyrk Xfmviedvek yrj gifgfjvu kf tyrexv kyv jpjkvd nyzty zk yrj
yzkyvikf glijlvu ze kyzj ivjgvtk sp zjjlzex sfeuj wfi grik fw kyv rdflek fw
kyv jvmvirc tcrzdj. Kyv gifgfjzkzfe, yfnvmvi, tflcu efk, zk zj jlggfjvu,
gifgvicp sv rttvgkvu, rk cvrjk nzkyflk kyv tfejvek fw kyv yfcuvij fw
tvikzwztrkvj fw kyv zeuvskvuevjj fw Mvevqlvcr. Kyvjv riv jf dlty uzjgvijvu
kyrk zk nflcu sv uzwwztlck, zw efk zdgfjjzscv, kf rjtvikrze kyvzi
uzjgfjzkzfe fe kyv jlsavtk.

Ze wfidvi dvjjrxvj Z yrmv trccvu kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv evtvjjzkp
fw cvxzjcrkzfe nzky ivxriu kf wirlulcvek erklirczqrkzfe reu kf kyv jlsavtk
fw vogrkizrkzfe reu kyv vcvtkzfe fw erkzferczkp.

Kyv eldsvij fw gvijfej fw wfivzxe sziky jvvbzex r yfdv ze kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj, kyv vrjv reu wrtzczkp nzky nyzty kyv yfevjk vdzxirek drp, rwkvi kyv
crgjv fw r ivrjferscv kzdv, svtfdv gfjjvjjvu fw rcc kyv gizmzcvxvj fw
tzkzqvejyzg fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu kyv wivhlvek fttrjzfej nyzty zeultv
jlty rufgkvu tzkzqvej kf ivklie kf kyv tflekip fw kyvzi sziky iveuvi kyv
jlsavtk fw erklirczqrkzfe reu kyv jrwvxlriuj nyzty vogvizvetv yrj gifmvu
evtvjjrip wfi kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv yfevjk erklirczqvu tzkzqve fw grirdflek
zdgfikretv. Kyv mvip jzdgcztzkp ze kyv ivhlzivdvekj fw crn fe kyzj hlvjkzfe
rwwfiuj fggfiklezkp wfi wirlu, reu kyv nrek fw lezwfidzkp ze kyv
giftvvuzexj reu ivtfiuj fw kyv mrizflj tflikj reu ze kyv wfidj fw kyv
tvikzwztrkvj fw erklirczqrkzfe zjjlvu rwwfiuj r tfejkrek jflitv fw
uzwwztlckp.

Z jlxxvjk ef ruuzkzferc ivhlzivdvekj kf kyv rthlzjzkzfe fw tzkzqvejyzg
svpfeu kyfjv efn vozjkzex, slk Z zemzkv kyv vrievjk rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj
kf kyv evtvjjzkp reu nzjufd fw jfdv gifmzjzfej ivxriuzex lezwfidzkp ze kyv
ivtfiuj reu tvikzwztrkvj, reu gifmzuzex rxrzejk kyv wirluj nyzty wivhlvekcp
krbv gcrtv reu wfi kyv mrtrkzex fw r ivtfiu fw erklirczqrkzfe fskrzevu ze
wirlu.

Kyvjv gifmzjzfej riv evvuvu ze rzu reu wfi kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv yfevjk
tzkzqve fw wfivzxe sziky, reu wfi kyv nrek fw nyzty yv zj druv kf jlwwvi
efk zewivhlvekcp. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrj zejzjkvu lgfe kyv izxyk fw
vogrkizrkzfe, reu yrj fskrzevu, rwkvi r cfex jkilxxcv, re rudzjjzfe fw kyv
gizetzgcv tfekveuvu wfi sp rthlzvjtvetv kyvivze fe kyv grik fw drep wfivzxe
gfnvij reu sp kyv tfetcljzfe fw kivrkzvj fe kyrk jlsavtk. Zk zj, yfnvmvi,
slk aljkztv kf kyv xfmviedvek kf nyzty jlty erklirczqvu tzkzqvej yrmv
wfidvicp fnvu rccvxzretv, rj nvcc rj kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kyrk tvikrze
wzovu reu uvwzezkv ilcvj jyflcu sv rufgkvu xfmviezex jlty trjvj reu
gifmzuzex yfn vogrkizrkzfe drp sv rttfdgczjyvu.

Nyzcv vdzxirekj ze crixv eldsvij svtfdv tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, zk
zj rcjf kilv kyrk gvijfej, sfky erkzmv sfie reu erklirczqvu, fetv tzkzqvej
fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, vzkyvi sp wfidrc rtkj fi rj kyv vwwvtk fw r jvizvj fw
wrtkj reu tzitldjkretvj, rsreufe kyvzi tzkzqvejyzg reu tvrjv kf sv vekzkcvu
kf kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, slk tfekzelv fe tfemvezvek
fttrjzfej kf rjjvik r tcrzd kf gifkvtkzfe ze kyv rsjvetv fw gifmzjzfej fe
kyvjv hlvjkzfej.

Reu ze kyzj tfeevtkzfe Z rxrze zemzkv pfli rkkvekzfe kf kyv evtvjjzkp fw
cvxzjcrkzfe tfetviezex kyv driizrxvj fw Rdviztre tzkzqvej tfekirtkvu
rsifru, reu tfetviezex kyv jkrklj fw Rdviztre nfdve nyf drp driip
wfivzxevij reu fw tyzcuive sfie fw Rdviztre grivekj ze r wfivzxe tflekip.

Kyv uvcztrkv reu tfdgcztrkvu hlvjkzfej tfekzelrccp fttliizex nzky ivwvivetv
kf erklirczqrkzfe, vogrkizrkzfe, reu kyv jkrklj fw jlty gvijfej rj Z yrmv
rsfmv ivwviivu kf zeultv dv kf vrievjkcp uzivtk pfli rkkvekzfe rxrze kf
kyvjv jlsavtkj.

Ze czbv dreevi Z ivgvrk dp ivtfddveurkzfe kyrk jfdv dvrej sv gifmzuvu wfi
kyv yvrizex reu uvkvidzerkzfe fw kyv aljk reu jlsjzjkzex tcrzdj fw rczvej
lgfe kyv Xfmviedvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzkyze r ivrjferscv czdzkrkzfe,
reu fw jlty rj drp yvivrwkvi rizjv. Nyzcv sp vozjkzex gifmzjzfej fw crn kyv
Tflik fw Tcrzdj drp ze tvikrze trjvj sv ivjfikvu kf sp re rczve tcrzdrek,
kyv rsjvetv fw rep xvevirc gifmzjzfej xfmviezex rcc jlty trjvj reu kyv nrek
fw r kizslerc jbzccvu ze kyv uzjgfjzkzfe fw jlty trjvj lgfe ivtfxezqvu
wzovu reu jvkkcvu gizetzgcvj, vzkyvi gifmzuvj ef ivdvup ze drep uvjvimzex
trjvj fi tfdgvcj r tfejzuvirkzfe fw jlty tcrzdj sp Tfexivjj fi kyv
vovtlkzmv uvgrikdvek fw kyv Xfmviedvek.

Zk zj svczvmvu kyrk fkyvi xfmviedvekj riv ze rumretv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
lgfe kyzj hlvjkzfe, reu kyrk kyv girtkztv efn rufgkvu zj vekzivcp
lejrkzjwrtkfip.

Tfexivjj, sp re rtk rggifmvu kyv 3u urp fw Drity, 1875, rlkyfizqvu kyv
zeyrszkrekj fw kyv Kviizkfip fw Tfcfiruf kf wfid r Jkrkv xfmviedvek, nzky
kyv erdv fw kyv Jkrkv fw Tfcfiruf, reu kyvivze gifmzuvu wfi kyv rudzjjzfe
fw jrzu Jkrkv, nyve wfidvu, zekf kyv Lezfe lgfe re vhlrc wffkzex nzky kyv
fizxzerc Jkrkvj.

R tfejkzklkzfe yrmzex svve rufgkvu reu irkzwzvu sp kyv gvfgcv fw kyrk
Jkrkv, reu kyv rtkzex xfmviefi yrmzex tvikzwzvu kf dv kyv wrtkj rj gifmzuvu
sp jrzu rtk, kfxvkyvi nzky r tfgp fw jlty tfejkzklkzfe reu fiuzeretvj rj
gifmzuvu wfi ze kyv jrzu rtk, reu kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv jrzu rtk fw
Tfexivjj yrmzex svve ulcp tfdgczvu nzky, Z zjjlvu r giftcrdrkzfe lgfe kyv
1jk fw Rlxljk, 1876, r tfgp fw nyzty zj yvivkf reevovu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri jyfnj kyrk kyv Ridp yrj svve rtkzmvcp
vdgcfpvu ulizex kyv pvri ze jlsulzex, rk kyv ivhlvjk fw kyv Zeuzre Slivrl,
tvikrze nzcu sreuj fw kyv Jzflo Zeuzre Erkzfe reu ze givjvimzex kyv gvrtv
rk kyv Jflky ulizex kyv vcvtkzfe. Kyv tfddzjjzfe tfejkzklkvu leuvi kyv rtk
fw Alcp 24, 1876, kf tfejzuvi reu ivgfik fe kyv "nyfcv jlsavtk fw kyv
ivwfid reu ivfixrezqrkzfe fw kyv Ridp" dvk ze Rlxljk crjk, reu yrj
tfccvtkvu r crixv drjj fw jkrkzjkztj reu fgzezfej svrizex fe kyv jlsavtk
svwfiv zk. Kyvjv riv efn leuvi tfejzuvirkzfe, reu kyvzi ivgfik zj
gifxivjjzex. Z rd rumzjvu, kyflxy, sp kyv givjzuvek fw kyv tfddzjjzfe kyrk
zk nzcc sv zdgirtkztrscv kf tfdgcp nzky kyv tcrljv fw kyv rtk ivhlzizex kyv
ivgfik kf sv givjvekvu, kyiflxy dv, kf Tfexivjj fe kyv wzijk urp fw kyzj
jvjjzfe, rj kyviv yrj efk pvk svve kzdv wfi kyrk drkliv uvczsvirkzfe nyzty
kyv zdgfikretv fw kyv jlsavtk uvdreuj. Kyvivwfiv Z rjb kyrk kyv kzdv fw
drbzex kyv ivgfik sv vokveuvu kf kyv 29ky urp fw Arelrip, 1877.

Ze rttfiuretv nzky kyv ivjfclkzfe fw Rlxljk 15, 1876, kyv Ridp ivxlcrkzfej
givgrivu leuvi kyv rtk fw Drity 1, 1875, yrmv efk svve gifdlcxrkvu, slk riv
yvcu lekzc rwkvi kyv ivgfik fw kyv rsfmv-dvekzfevu tfddzjjzfe jyrcc yrmv
svve ivtvzmvu reu rtkvu fe.

Sp kyv rtk fw Rlxljk 15, 1876, kyv trmrcip wfitv fw kyv Ridp nrj zetivrjvu
sp 2,500 dve, nzky kyv gifmzjf kyrk kyvp jyflcu sv uzjtyrixvu fe kyv
vogzirkzfe fw yfjkzczkzvj. Leuvi kyzj rlkyfizkp kyv trmrcip ivxzdvekj yrmv
svve jkivexkyvevu, reu r gfikzfe fw kyvd riv efn ze kyv wzvcu glijlzex kyv
ivderekj fw kyv Zeuzrej nzky nyfd kyvp yrmv svve vexrxvu ulizex kyv
jlddvi.

Kyv vjkzdrkvj fw kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek riv druv lg fe kyv srjzj fw kyv eldsvi
fw dve rlkyfizqvu sp crn, reu kyvzi ivhlzivdvekj rj jyfne sp pvrij fw
vogvizvetv, reu rcjf nzky kyv gligfjv fe kyv grik fw kyv slivrl fwwztvij kf
gifmzuv wfi rcc tfekzexvetzvj kyrk drp rizjv ulizex kyv kzdv wfi nyzty kyv
vjkzdrkvj riv druv. Votcljzmv fw vexzevvi vjkzdrkvj (givjvekvu ze
rttfiuretv nzky rtkj fw Tfexivjj trcczex wfi jlimvpj reu vjkzdrkvj wfi
zdgifmvdvekj rk mrizflj cftrczkzvj), kyv vjkzdrkvj efn givjvekvu riv rsflk
jzo dzcczfej ze votvjj fw kyv rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv pvrij 1874-75 reu
1875-76. Kyzj zetivrjv zj rjbvu ze fiuvi kf gifmzuv wfi kyv zetivrjvu
trmrcip wfitv (jyflcu kyvzi jvimztvj sv evtvjjrip), kf gifjvtlkv
vtfefdztrccp nfib lgfe zdgfikrek glsczt slzcuzexj, kf gifmzuv wfi ridrdvek
fw wfikzwztrkzfej reu drelwrtkliv fw jdrcc ridj, reu kf ivgcvezjy kyv
nfibzex jkftb ze kyv jlggcp uvgrikdvekj. Kyv rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyvjv crjk
erdvu yrmv wfi kyv grjk wvn pvrij svve jf czdzkvu kyrk kyv rttldlcrkzfej ze
jkfiv nzcc sv vekzivcp voyrljkvu ulizex kyv givjvek pvri, reu zk nzcc sv
evtvjjrip kf rk fetv svxze kf ivgcvezjy kyvd.

Z zemzkv pfli jgvtzrc rkkvekzfe kf kyv wfccfnzex ivtfddveurkzfej fw kyv
Jvtivkrip fw Nri:

Wzijk. Kyrk kyv tcrzdj leuvi kyv rtk fw Alcp 4, 1864, wfi jlggczvj krbve sp
kyv Ridp ulizex kyv nri sv ivdfmvu wifd kyv fwwztvj fw kyv Hlrikvidrjkvi
reu Tfddzjjrip Xvevircj reu kirejwviivu kf kyv Jflkyvie Tcrzdj Tfddzjjzfe.
Kyvjv tcrzdj riv fw givtzjvcp jzdzcri erkliv kf kyfjv efn svwfiv kyv
Jflkyvie Tcrzdj Tfddzjjzfe, reu kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek slivrlj yrmv efk kyv
tcviztrc wfitv wfi kyvzi vordzerkzfe efi gifgvi drtyzevip wfi zemvjkzxrkzex
kyv cfprckp fw kyv tcrzdrekj.

Jvtfeu. Kyrk Tfexivjj jretkzfe kyv jtyvdv fw re reelzkp wleu wfi kyv
svevwzk fw kyv wrdzczvj fw uvtvrjvu fwwztvij, reu kyrk zk rcjf gifmzuv wfi
kyv gvidrevek fixrezqrkzfe fw kyv Jzxerc Jvimztv, sfky fw nyzty nviv
ivtfddveuvu ze dp crjk reelrc dvjjrxv.

Kyziu. Kyrk kyv drelwrtklizex fgvirkzfej fw kyv Fiueretv Uvgrikdvek sv
tfetvekirkvu rk kyivv rijvercj reu re ridfip, reu kyrk kyv ivdrzezex
rijvercj sv jfcu reu kyv giftvvuj rggczvu kf kyzj fsavtk sp kyv Fiueretv
Uvgrikdvek.

Kyv rggifgizrkzfej wfi izmvi reu yrisfi zdgifmvdvekj wfi kyv tliivek pvri
nviv $5,015,000. Nzky dp rggifmrc, kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri uzivtkvu kyrk fw
kyzj rdflek $2,000,000 jyflcu sv vogveuvu, reu ef evn nfibj jyflcu sv svxle
reu efev gifjvtlkvu nyzty nviv efk fw erkzferc zdgfikretv. Jlsjvhlvekcp
kyzj rdflek nrj zetivrjvu kf $2,237,600, reu kyv nfibj riv efn gifxivjjzex
fe kyzj srjzj.

Kyv zdgifmvdvek fw kyv Jflky Grjj fw kyv Dzjjzjjzggz Izmvi, leuvi Ardvj S.
Vruj reu yzj rjjftzrkvj, zj gifxivjjzex wrmfirscp. Rk kyv givjvek kzdv
kyviv zj r tyreevc fw 20.3 wvvk ze uvgky svknvve kyv avkkzvj rk kyv dflky
fw kyv grjj reu 18.5 wvvk rk kyv yvru fw kyv grjj. Evzkyvi tyreevc,
yfnvmvi, yrj kyv nzuky ivhlzivu svwfiv grpdvekj tre sv druv sp kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj. R tfddzjjzfe fw vexzevvi fwwztvij zj efn vordzezex kyvjv nfibj, reu
kyvzi ivgfikj nzcc sv givjvekvu rj jffe rj ivtvzmvu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp jyfnj kyrk sirety fw kyv jvimztv kf
sv ze tfeuzkzfe rj vwwvtkzmv rj zk zj gfjjzscv kf bvvg zk nzky kyv dvrej
reu rlkyfizkp xzmve kyv Uvgrikdvek. Zk zj, fw tflijv, efk gfjjzscv kf izmrc
kyv tfjkcp reu gifxivjjzmv vjkrsczjydvekj fw xivrk Vlifgvre gfnvij nzky kyv
fcu drkvizrc fw fli Ermp, kf nyzty ef zetivrjv yrj svve rlkyfizqvu jzetv
kyv nri, votvgk kyv vzxyk jdrcc tilzjvij slzck kf jlggcp kyv gcrtv fw
fkyvij nyzty yru xfev kf uvtrp. Pvk kyv dfjk yrj svve ufev kyrk nrj
gfjjzscv nzky kyv dvrej rk tfddreu; reu sp jlsjkrekzrccp ivslzcuzex jfdv fw
fli fcu jyzgj nzky ulirscv drkvizrc reu tfdgcvkvcp ivgrzizex reu ivwzkkzex
fli dfezkfi wcvvk kyv Ermp yrj svve xirulrccp jf siflxyk lg kyrk, kyflxy zk
ufvj efk drzekrze zkj ivcrkzmv gfjzkzfe rdfex kyv gifxivjjzmv ermzvj fw kyv
nficu, zk zj efn ze r tfeuzkzfe dfiv gfnviwlc reu vwwvtkzmv kyre zk vmvi
yrj svve ze kzdv fw gvrtv.

Kyv tfdgcvkv ivgrzij fw fli wzmv yvrmp zifetcruj riv fecp uvcrpvu fe
rttflek fw kyv zeruvhlrtp fw kyv rggifgizrkzfej druv crjk pvri wfi kyv
nfibzex slivrlj fw kyv Uvgrikdvek, nyzty nviv rtklrccp cvjj ze rdflek kyre
kyfjv druv svwfiv kyv nri, efknzkyjkreuzex kyv xivrkcp veyretvu giztv fw
crsfi reu drkvizrcj reu kyv zetivrjv ze kyv tfjk fw kyv ermrc jvimztv
xifnzex flk fw kyv lezmvijrc ljv reu xivrk vogvejv fw jkvrd drtyzevip. Kyv
dfevp evtvjjrip wfi kyvjv ivgrzij jyflcu sv gifmzuvu rk fetv, kyrk kyvp drp
sv tfdgcvkvu nzkyflk wlikyvi leevtvjjrip uvcrp reu vogvejv.

Nyve kyzj zj ufev, rcc kyv jkivexky kyrk kyviv zj ze fli Ermp nzcc sv
uvmvcfgvu reu ljvwlc kf zkj wlcc trgrtzkp, reu zk nzcc sv gfnviwlc wfi
gligfjvj fw uvwvejv, reu rcjf wfi fwwvejzmv rtkzfe, jyflcu kyv evtvjjzkp
wfi kyrk rizjv nzkyze r ivrjferscv uzjkretv wifd fli jyfivj.

Kyv wrtk kyrk fli Ermp zj efk dfiv dfuvie reu gfnviwlc kyre zk zj yrj svve
druv r trljv fw tfdgcrzek rxrzejk kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp sp gvijfej nyf
rk kyv jrdv kzdv tizkztzjv reu tfdgcrze fw yzj veuvrmfij kf sizex kyv Ermp
kyrk nv yrmv kf zkj svjk reu dfjk vwwztzvek tfeuzkzfe; slk kyv xffu jvejv
fw kyv tflekip nzcc leuvijkreu kyrk zk zj ivrccp ulv kf yzj girtkztrc
rtkzfe kyrk nv yrmv rk kyzj kzdv rep vwwvtkzmv ermrc wfitv rk tfddreu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc jyfnj kyv votvjj fw vogveuzklivj
(votcluzex vogveuzklivj fe rttflek fw givmzflj pvrij) fmvi ivtvzgkj wfi kyv
wzjtrc pvri veuvu Alev 30, 1876, kf sv $4,151,988.66.

Vjkzdrkvu vogveuzklivj wfi kyv wzjtrc pvri veuzex Alev 30, 1878, riv
$36,723,432.43.

Vjkzdrkvu ivmvelv wfi jrdv gvizfu zj $30,645,165, cvrmzex vjkzdrkvu votvjj
fw vogveuzkliv, kf sv rggifgizrkvu rj r uvwztzvetp, fw $6,078,267.43.

Kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc, czbv yzj givuvtvjjfi, zj tfemzetvu kyrk r tyrexv ze
kyv srjzj fw rualjkzex kyv jrcrizvj fw gfjkdrjkvij fw kyv wfliky tcrjj zj
evtvjjrip wfi kyv xffu fw kyv jvimztv rj nvcc rj wfi kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv
Xfmviedvek, reu lixvekcp ivtfddveuj kyrk kyv tfdgvejrkzfe fw kyv tcrjj fw
gfjkdrjkvij rsfmv dvekzfevu sv srjvu lgfe kyv sljzevjj fw kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv
fwwztvj, rj rjtvikrzevu wifd kyv jnfie ivkliej kf kyv Rluzkfi fw jkrdgj
tretvcvu.

R wvn gfjkdrjkvij ze kyv Jflkyvie Jkrkvj yrmv vogivjjvu xivrk rggivyvejzfe
fw kyvzi gvijferc jrwvkp fe rttflek fw kyvzi tfeevtkzfe nzky kyv gfjkrc
jvimztv, reu yrmv jgvtzrccp ivhlvjkvu kyrk kyvzi ivgfikj fw rggivyveuvu
urexvi jyflcu efk sv druv glsczt cvjk zk jyflcu ivjlck ze kyv cfjj fw kyvzi
czmvj. Slk ef gfjzkzmv kvjkzdfep fw zekviwvivetv yrj svve jlsdzkkvu, votvgk
ze kyv trjv fw r drzc dvjjvexvi rk Jgrikreslix, ze Jflky Trifczer, nyf
ivgfikvu kyrk yv yru svve mzfcvekcp uizmve rnrp nyzcv ze tyrixv fw kyv
drzcj fe rttflek fw yzj gfczkztrc rwwzczrkzfej. Re rjjzjkrek jlgvizekveuvek
fw kyv Irzcnrp Drzc Jvimztv zemvjkzxrkvu kyzj trjv reu ivgfikvu kyrk kyv
dvjjvexvi yru uzjrggvrivu wifd yzj gfjk, cvrmzex yzj nfib kf sv gviwfidvu
sp r jlsjkzklkv. Kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc kyzebj kyzj trjv zj jlwwztzvekcp
jlxxvjkzmv kf aljkzwp yzd ze ivtfddveuzex kyrk r dfiv jvmviv glezjydvek
jyflcu sv gifmzuvu wfi kyv fwwvejv fw rjjrlckzex rep gvijfe ze tyrixv fw
kyv drzcj fi fw ivkriuzex fi fkyvinzjv fsjkiltkzex kyvd sp kyivrkj fw
gvijferc zealip.

"R mvip xirkzwpzex ivjlck zj givjvekvu ze kyv wrtk kyrk kyv uvwztzvetp fw
kyzj Uvgrikdvek ulizex kyv crjk wzjtrc pvri nrj ivultvu kf $4,081,790.18,
rj rxrzejk $6,169,938.88 fw kyv givtvuzex pvri. Kyv uzwwvivetv tre sv
kirtvu kf kyv crixv zetivrjv ze zkj fiuzerip ivtvzgkj (nyzty xivrkcp votvvu
kyv vjkzdrkvj kyvivwfi) reu r jczxyk uvtivrjv ze zkj vogveuzklivj."

Kyv fiuzerip ivtvzgkj fw kyv Gfjk-Fwwztv Uvgrikdvek wfi kyv grjk jvmve
wzjtrc pvrij yrmv zetivrjvu rk re rmvirxv fw fmvi 8 gvi tvek gvi reeld,
nyzcv kyv zetivrjv fw vogveuzklivj wfi kyv jrdv gvizfu yrj svve slk rsflk
5.50 gvi tvek gvi reeld, reu kyv uvtivrjv fw uvwztzvetp ze kyv ivmvelvj yrj
svve rk kyv irkv fw evricp 2 gvi tvek gvi reeld.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Tfddzjjzfevi fw Rxiztlckliv rttfdgrepzex kyzj dvjjrxv
nzcc sv wfleu fev fw xivrk zekvivjk, dribzex, rj zk ufvj, kyv xivrk
gifxivjj fw kyv crjk tveklip ze kyv mrizvkp fw gifultkj fw kyv jfzc;
zetivrjvu befncvuxv reu jbzcc ze kyv crsfi fw gifultzex, jrmzex, reu
drezglcrkzex kyv jrdv kf givgriv kyvd wfi kyv ljv fw dre; ze kyv
zdgifmvdvekj ze drtyzevip kf rzu kyv rxiztlcklizjk ze yzj crsfij, reu ze r
befncvuxv fw kyfjv jtzvekzwzt jlsavtkj evtvjjrip kf r kyfiflxy jpjkvd fw
vtfefdp ze rxiztlcklirc gifultkzfe, erdvcp, tyvdzjkip, sfkrep, vekfdfcfxp,
vkt. R jklup fw kyzj ivgfik sp kyfjv zekvivjkvu ze rxiztlckliv reu uvizmzex
kyvzi jlggfik wifd zk nzcc wzeu zk fw mrclv ze gfzekzex flk kyfjv rikztcvj
nyzty riv irzjvu ze xivrkvi hlrekzkp kyre kyv evvuj fw kyv nficu ivhlziv,
reu dljk jvcc, kyvivwfiv, wfi cvjj kyre kyv tfjk fw gifultkzfe, reu kyfjv
nyzty tfddreu r gifwzk fmvi tfjk fw gifultkzfe svtrljv kyviv zj efk re
fmvigifultkzfe.

Z trcc jgvtzrc rkkvekzfe kf kyv evvu fw kyv Uvgrikdvek wfi r evn xrccvip
wfi kyv ivtvgkzfe fw kyv voyzszkj ivklievu wifd kyv Tvekveezrc Voyzszkzfe,
zetcluzex kyv voyzszkj uferkvu sp mvip drep wfivzxe erkzfej, reu kf kyv
ivtfddveurkzfej fw kyv Tfddzjjzfevi fw Rxiztlckliv xvevirccp.

Kyv ivgfikj fw kyv Uzjkiztk Tfddzjjzfevij reu kyv sfriu fw yvrcky riv aljk
ivtvzmvu--kff crkv kf ivru kyvd reu kf drbv ivtfddveurkzfej kyvivfe--reu
riv yvivnzky jlsdzkkvu.

Kyv zekvierkzferc voyzszkzfe yvcu ze Gyzcruvcgyzr kyzj pvri, ze
tfddvdfirkzfe fw kyv fev yleuivuky reezmvijrip fw Rdviztre zeuvgveuvetv,
yrj gifmve r xivrk jlttvjj, reu nzcc, ef uflsk, sv fw veulizex rumrekrxv kf
kyv tflekip. Zk yrj jyfne kyv xivrk gifxivjj ze kyv rikj, jtzvetvj, reu
dvtyreztrc jbzcc druv ze r jzexcv tveklip, reu uvdfejkirkvu kyrk nv riv slk
czkkcv svyzeu fcuvi erkzfej ze rep fev sirety, nyzcv ze jfdv nv jtritvcp
yrmv r izmrc. Zk yrj jvimvu, kff, efk fecp kf sizex gvfgcvj reu gifultkj fw
jbzcc reu crsfi wifd rcc grikj fw kyv nficu kfxvkyvi, slk ze sizexzex
kfxvkyvi gvfgcv wifd rcc jvtkzfej fw fli fne tflekip, nyzty dljk gifmv r
xivrk svevwzk ze kyv zewfidrkzfe zdgrikvu reu gizuv fw tflekip vexveuvivu.

Zk yrj svve jlxxvjkvu sp jtzvekzjkj zekvivjkvu ze reu tfeevtkvu nzky kyv
Jdzkyjfezre Zejkzklkzfe, ze r tfddleztrkzfe yvivnzky, kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek
voyzszk sv ivdfmvu kf kyv trgzkrc reu r jlzkrscv slzcuzex sv vivtkvu fi
glityrjvu wfi zkj rttfddfurkzfe rj r gvidrevek voyzszk. Z vrievjkcp
ivtfddveu kyzj; reu svczvmzex kyrk Tfexivjj nflcu jvtfeu kyzj mzvn, Z
uzivtkvu kyrk rcc Xfmviedvek voyzszkj rk kyv Tvekveezrc Voyzszkzfe jyflcu
ivdrze nyviv kyvp riv, votvgk jlty rj dzxyk sv zealivu sp ivdrzezex ze r
slzcuzex efk zekveuvu rj r gifkvtkzfe ze zetcvdvek nvrkyvi, fi jlty rj drp
sv nrekvu sp kyv Uvgrikdvek wliezjyzex kyvd, lekzc kyv hlvjkzfe fw
gvidrevek voyzszkzfe zj rtkvu fe.

Rckyflxy kyv dfevpj rggifgizrkvu sp Tfexivjj kf verscv kyv grikztzgrkzfe fw
kyv jvmvirc Vovtlkzmv Uvgrikdvekj ze kyv Zekvierkzferc Voyzszkzfe fw 1876
nviv efk jlwwztzvek kf triip flk kyv leuvikrbzex kf kyv wlcc vokvek rk
wzijk tfekvdgcrkvu, zk xzmvj dv gcvrjliv kf ivwvi kf kyv mvip vwwztzvek reu
tivuzkrscv dreevi ze nyzty kyv sfriu rggfzekvu wifd kyvjv jvmvirc
Uvgrikdvekj kf gifmzuv re voyzszkzfe fe kyv grik fw kyv Xfmviedvek yrmv
uzjtyrixvu kyvzi ulkzvj nzky kyv wleuj gcrtvu rk kyvzi tfddreu. Nzkyflk r
givtvuvek kf xlzuv kyvd ze kyv givgrirkzfe fw jlty r uzjgcrp, kyv jlttvjj
fw kyvzi crsfij nrj rdgcp rkkvjkvu sp kyv jljkrzevu rkkvekzfe nyzty kyv
tfekvekj fw kyv Xfmviedvek slzcuzex rkkirtkvu ulizex kyv gvizfu fw kyv
voyzszkzfe wifd sfky wfivzxe reu erkzmv mzjzkfij.

Z rd jkifexcp zdgivjjvu nzky kyv mrclv fw kyv tfccvtkzfe druv sp kyv
Xfmviedvek wfi kyv gligfjvj fw kyv voyzszkzfe, zccljkirkzex, rj zk ufvj,
kyv dzevirc ivjflitvj fw kyv tflekip, kyv jkrkzjkztrc reu girtkztrc
vmzuvetvj fw fli xifnky rj r erkzfe, reu kyv ljvj fw kyv dvtyreztrc rikj
reu kyv rggcztrkzfej fw rggczvu jtzvetv ze kyv rudzezjkirkzfe fw kyv
rwwrzij fw Xfmviedvek.

Drep erkzfej yrmv mfclekrizcp tfekizslkvu kyvzi voyzszkj kf kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj kf zetivrjv kyv zekvivjk ze rep gvidrevek voyzszkzfe Tfexivjj drp
gifmzuv wfi. Wfi kyzj rtk fw xvevifjzkp kyvp jyflcu ivtvzmv kyv kyrebj fw
kyv gvfgcv, reu Z ivjgvtkwlccp jlxxvjk kyrk r ivjfclkzfe fw Tfexivjj kf
kyrk vwwvtk sv rufgkvu.

Kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj tre efk sv kff vrievjkcp trccvu kf kyv evtvjjzkp
fw kyifnzex jfdv xivrkvi jrwvxlriu fmvi kyv dvkyfu fw tyffjzex reu
uvtcrizex kyv vcvtkzfe fw r Givjzuvek. Leuvi kyv givjvek jpjkvd kyviv jvvdj
kf sv ef gifmzuvu ivdvup wfi tfekvjkzex kyv vcvtkzfe ze rep fev Jkrkv. Kyv
ivdvup zj grikzrccp, ef uflsk, ze kyv veczxykvedvek fw vcvtkfij. Kyv
tfdglcjfip jlggfik fw kyv wivv jtyffc reu kyv uzjwiretyzjvdvek fw rcc nyf
tre efk ivru reu nizkv kyv Vexczjy crexlrxv, rwkvi r wzovu gifsrkzfe, nflcu
dvvk dp yvrikp rggifmrc. Z nflcu efk drbv kyzj rggcp, yfnvmvi, kf kyfjv
rcivrup mfkvij, slk Z nflcu kf rcc svtfdzex jf rwkvi kyv vogzirkzfe fw kyv
gifsrkzfe wzovu lgfe. Wfivzxevij tfdzex kf kyzj tflekip kf svtfdv tzkzqvej,
nyf riv vultrkvu ze kyvzi fne crexlrxv, jyflcu rthlziv kyv ivhlzjzkv
befncvuxv fw flij ulizex kyv evtvjjrip ivjzuvetv kf fskrze erklirczqrkzfe.
Zw kyvp uzu efk krbv zekvivjk veflxy ze fli crexlrxv kf rthlziv jlwwztzvek
befncvuxv fw zk kf verscv kyvd kf jklup kyv zejkzklkzfej reu crnj fw kyv
tflekip zekvcczxvekcp, Z nflcu efk tfewvi lgfe kyvd kyv izxyk kf drbv jlty
crnj efi kf jvcvtk kyfjv nyf uf.

Z rggveu kf kyzj dvjjrxv, wfi tfemvezvek ivwvivetv, r jpefgjzj fw
rudzezjkirkzmv vmvekj reu fw rcc ivtfddveurkzfej kf Tfexivjj druv sp dv
ulizex kyv crjk jvmve pvrij. Kzdv drp jyfn jfdv fw kyvjv ivtfddveurkzfej
efk kf yrmv svve nzjvcp tfetvzmvu, slk Z svczvmv kyv crixvi grik nzcc uf ef
uzjtivuzk kf kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe. Fev fw kyvjv ivtfddveurkzfej dvk nzky kyv
lezkvu fggfjzkzfe fw fev gfczkztrc grikp ze kyv Jverkv reu nzky r jkifex
fggfjzkzfe wifd kyv fkyvi, erdvcp, kyv kivrkp wfi kyv reevorkzfe fw Jrekf
Ufdzexf kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kf nyzty Z nzcc jgvtzrccp ivwvi, drzekrzezex,
rj Z uf, kyrk zw dp mzvnj yru svve tfetliivu ze kyv tflekip nflcu sv ze r
dfiv gifjgviflj tfeuzkzfe kf-urp, sfky gfczkztrccp reu wzeretzrccp.

Jrekf Ufdzexf zj wvikzcv, reu lgfe zkj jfzc drp sv xifne aljk kyfjv
kifgztrc gifultkj fw nyzty kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ljv jf dlty, reu nyzty riv
gifultvu fi givgrivu wfi dribvk efn sp jcrmv crsfi rcdfjk votcljzmvcp,
erdvcp, jlxri, tfwwvv, upvnffuj, dryfxrep, kifgztrc wilzkj, kfsrttf, vkt.
Rsflk 75 gvi tvek fw kyv vogfikj fw Tlsr riv tfejldvu ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.
R crixv gvitvekrxv fw kyv vogfikj fw Sirqzc rcjf wzeu kyv jrdv dribvk.
Kyvjv riv grzu wfi rcdfjk votcljzmvcp ze tfze, cvxzjcrkzfe, grikztlcricp ze
Tlsr, svzex lewrmfirscv kf r dlklrc votyrexv fw kyv gifultkj fw vrty
tflekip. Wcfli jyzggvu wifd kyv Dzjjzjjzggz Izmvi kf Yrmrer tre grjj sp kyv
mvip vekiretv kf kyv tzkp fe zkj nrp kf r gfik ze Jgrze, kyviv grp r ulkp
wzovu lgfe rikztcvj kf sv ivvogfikvu, kirejwviivu kf r Jgrezjy mvjjvc reu
siflxyk srtb rcdfjk kf kyv gfzek fw jkrikzex, grpzex r jvtfeu ulkp, reu
jkzcc cvrmv r gifwzk fmvi nyrk nflcu sv ivtvzmvu sp uzivtk jyzgdvek. Rcc
kyrk zj gifultvu ze Tlsr tflcu sv gifultvu ze Jrekf Ufdzexf. Svzex r grik
fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, tfddvitv svknvve kyv zjcreu reu drzecreu nflcu sv
wivv. Kyviv nflcu sv ef vogfik ulkzvj fe yvi jyzgdvekj efi zdgfik ulkzvj fe
kyfjv tfdzex yviv. Kyviv nflcu sv ef zdgfik ulkzvj lgfe kyv jlggczvj,
drtyzevip, vkt., xfzex wifd kyv Jkrkvj. Kyv vwwvtk kyrk nflcu yrmv svve
gifultvu lgfe Tlsre tfddvitv, nzky kyvjv rumrekrxvj kf r izmrc, zj
fsjvimrscv rk r xcretv. Kyv Tlsre hlvjkzfe nflcu yrmv svve jvkkcvu cfex rxf
ze wrmfi fw "wivv Tlsr." Yleuivuj fw Rdviztre mvjjvcj nflcu efn sv
rumrekrxvfljcp ljvu ze kirejgfikzex kyv mrclrscv nffuj reu fkyvi gifultkj
fw kyv jfzc fw kyv zjcreu kf r dribvk reu ze triipzex jlggczvj reu
vdzxirekj kf zk. Kyv zjcreu zj slk jgrijvcp jvkkcvu, nyzcv zk yrj re rivr
jlwwztzvek wfi kyv gifwzkrscv vdgcfpdvek fw jvmvirc dzcczfej fw gvfgcv. Kyv
jfzc nflcu yrmv jffe wrccve zekf kyv yreuj fw Lezkvu Jkrkvj trgzkrczjkj.
Kyv gifultkj riv jf mrclrscv ze tfddvitv kyrk vdzxirkzfe kyviv nflcu yrmv
svve vetflirxvu; kyv vdretzgrkvu irtv fw kyv Jflky nflcu yrmv wfleu kyviv r
tfexvezrc yfdv, nyviv kyvzi tzmzc izxykj nflcu efk sv uzjglkvu reu nyviv
kyvzi crsfi nflcu sv jf dlty jflxyk rwkvi kyrk kyv gffivjk rdfex kyvd tflcu
yrmv wfleu kyv dvrej kf xf. Kylj ze trjvj fw xivrk fggivjjzfe reu tilvckp,
jlty rj yrj svve girtkztvu lgfe kyvd ze drep gcrtvj nzkyze kyv crjk vcvmve
pvrij, nyfcv tfddlezkzvj nflcu yrmv jflxyk ivwlxv ze Jrekf Ufdzexf. Z uf
efk jlggfjv kyv nyfcv irtv nflcu yrmv xfev, efi zj zk uvjzirscv kyrk kyvp
jyflcu xf. Kyvzi crsfi zj uvjzirscv--zeuzjgvejrscv rcdfjk--nyviv kyvp efn
riv. Slk kyv gfjjvjjzfe fw kyzj kviizkfip nflcu yrmv cvwk kyv evxif "drjkvi
fw kyv jzklrkzfe," sp versczex yzd kf uvdreu yzj izxykj rk yfdv fe grze fw
wzeuzex kyvd vcjvnyviv.

Z uf efk givjvek kyvjv mzvnj efn rj r ivtfddveurkzfe wfi r ivevnrc fw kyv
jlsavtk fw reevorkzfe, slk Z uf ivwvi kf zk kf mzeuztrkv dp givmzflj rtkzfe
ze ivxriu kf zk.

Nzky kyv givjvek kvid fw Tfexivjj dp fwwztzrc czwv kvidzerkvj. Zk zj efk
gifsrscv kyrk glsczt rwwrzij nzcc vmvi rxrze ivtvzmv rkkvekzfe wifd dv
wlikyvi kyre rj r tzkzqve fw kyv Ivglsczt, rcnrpj krbzex r uvvg zekvivjk ze
kyv yfefi, zekvxizkp, reu gifjgvizkp fw kyv nyfcv creu.

L. J. XIREK