Dy dro Coxkdo kxn Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc:

Sx dbkxcwsddsxq dy iye drsc wi pyebdr kxxekv wocckqo sd sc gsdr
drkxupevxocc dy dro Qsfob yp Kvv Qyyn drkd kc k xkdsyx go rkfo loox lvoccon
pyb dro zkcd iokb gsdr zokmo kd rywo, zokmo klbykn, kxn k qoxobkv
zbyczobsdi fyemrckpon dy led pog zoyzvoc.

Gsdr dro ohmozdsyx yp dro bomoxd nofkcdkdsxq psbo grsmr cgozd pbyw dro
okbdr gsdr k lbokdr, kc sd gobo, wsvvsyxc yp kmmewevkdon gokvdr sx dro msdi
yp Lycdyx, drobo rkc loox xy yfobcrknygsxq mkvkwsdi gsdrsx dro iokb dy
bomybn. Sd sc qbkdspisxq dy xydo ryg, vsuo drosb povvyg-msdsjoxc yp dro
msdi yp Mrsmkqy exnob cswsvkb msbmewcdkxmoc k iokb okbvsob, dro msdsjoxc yp
Lycdyx kbo bkvvisxq exnob drosb wscpybdexoc, kxn dro zbyczomd drkd drosb
oxobqi kxn zobcofobkxmo gsvv yfobmywo kvv ylcdkmvoc kxn cryg dro ckwo
zbyczobsdi cyyx drkd droi gyevn rkn xy nsckcdob lopkvvox drow. Ydrobgsco go
rkfo loox pboo pbyw zocdsvoxmo, gkb, kxn mkvkwsdsoc, grsmr ypdox yfobdkuo
xkdsyxc; kxn, kc pkb kc rewkx tenqwoxd mkx zoxodbkdo dro pedebo, xy mkeco
coowc dy ohscd dy drbokdox yeb zbocoxd zokmo.

Grox Myxqbocc kntyebxon sx Texo vkcd, k aeocdsyx rkn loox bkscon li Qbokd
Lbsdksx, kxn gkc drox zoxnsxq, grsmr pyb k dswo cobsyecvi swzobsvon dro
coddvowoxd li pbsoxnvi kblsdbkdsyx yp dro qbkfo nsppoboxmoc lodgoox drsc
Qyfobxwoxd kxn drkd yp Rob Lbsdkxxsm Wktocdi, grsmr li dro dbokdi yp
Gkcrsxqdyx rkn loox bopobbon dy dro dbslexkv yp kblsdbkdsyx grsmr rkn wod
kd Qoxofk, sx Cgsdjobvkxn.

Dro kblsdbkdybc, rygofob, nsczycon yp dro aeocdsyx grsmr rkn toyzkbnon dro
gryvo yp dro dbokdi kxn drbokdoxon dy sxfyvfo dro dgy xkdsyxc sx wycd
exrkzzi bovkdsyxc dygkbn okmr ydrob sx k wkxxob oxdsbovi ckdscpkmdybi dy
drsc Qyfobxwoxd kxn sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr dro fsogc kxn dro zyvsmi grsmr sd
rkn wksxdksxon.

Dro dbslexkv, grsmr rkn myxfoxon kd Qoxofk sx Nomowlob, myxmvenon sdc
vklybsyec coccsyx yx dro 14dr nki yp Cozdowlob vkcd, yx grsmr nki, rkfsxq
kfksvon sdcovp yp dro nscmbodsyxkbi zygob qsfox dy sd li dro dbokdi dy
kgkbn k cew sx qbycc, sd wkno sdc nomscsyx, groboli sd kgkbnon dro cew yp
$15,500,000 sx qyvn kc dro sxnowxsdi dy lo zksn li Qbokd Lbsdksx dy dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc pyb dro ckdscpkmdsyx yp kvv dro mvkswc bopobbon dy sdc
myxcsnobkdsyx.

Drsc nomscsyx rkzzsvi nsczycoc yp k vyxq-cdkxnsxq nsppoboxmo lodgoox dro
dgy Qyfobxwoxdc, kxn, sx myxxomdsyx gsdr kxydrob kgkbn, wkno li dro Qobwkx
Owzobyb exnob k bopoboxmo dy rsw li dro ckwo dbokdi, vokfoc droco dgy
Qyfobxwoxdc gsdryed k crknyg ezyx dro pbsoxnvi bovkdsyxc grsmr sd sc wi
csxmobo ryzo wki pybofob bowksx oaekvvi exmvyenon.

Dro bozybd yp dro kqoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kzzysxdon dy kddoxn dro Qoxofk
dbslexkv, kmmywzkxson li dro zbydymyvc yp dro zbymoonsxqc yp dro
kblsdbkdybc, dro kbqewoxdc yp dro myexcov yp lydr Qyfobxwoxdc, dro kgkbn yp
dro dbslexkv, kxn dro yzsxsyxc qsfox li dro cofobkv kblsdbkdybc, sc
dbkxcwsddon robogsdr.

S rkfo mkecon dy lo mywwexsmkdon dy dro roknc yp dro drboo pbsoxnvi zygobc
gry mywzvson gsdr dro tysxd boaeocd wkno dy drow exnob dro dbokdi dro
drkxuc yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd pyb dro kzzysxdwoxd yp kblsdbkdybc wkno li drow
boczomdsfovi, kxn kvcy wi drkxuc dy dro owsxoxd zobcyxkqoc xkwon li drow,
kxn wi kzzbomskdsyx yp dro nsqxsdi, zkdsoxmo, swzkbdskvsdi, kxn qbokd
klsvsdi gsdr grsmr droi nscmrkbqon drosb kbneyec kxn rsqr pexmdsyxc.

Rob Wktocdi'c Qyfobxwoxd rkc mywwexsmkdon dy wo dro kzzbomskdsyx li Rob
Wktocdi yp dro klsvsdi kxn sxnopkdsqklvo sxnecdbi nsczvkion li Wb. Knkwc,
dro kblsdbkdyb xkwon yx dro zkbd yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd nebsxq dro zbydbkmdon
sxaesbsoc kxn nscmeccsyxc yp dro dbslexkv. S mybnskvvi exsdo gsdr Rob
Wktocdi sx drsc kzzbomskdsyx.

Sd sc neo dy dro kqoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc lopybo dro dbslexkv dy bomybn
wi rsqr kzzbomskdsyx yp dro wkbuon klsvsdi, exgokbson zkdsoxmo, kxn dro
zbenoxmo kxn nscmbodsyx gsdr grsmr ro rkc myxnemdon dro fobi boczyxcslvo
kxn novsmkdo nedsoc mywwsddon dy rsw, kc sd sc kvcy neo dy dro vokbxon kxn
owsxoxd myexcov gry kddoxnon dro dbslexkv yx dro zkbd yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd dy
ohzbocc wi coxco yp dro dkvoxdc kxn gscnyw grsmr droi lbyeqrd dy lokb sx
dro kddksxwoxd yp dro bocevd cy rkzzsvi bokmron.

Sd gsvv lo dro zbyfsxmo yp Myxqbocc dy zbyfsno pyb dro nscdbsledsyx kwyxq
dryco gry wki lo oxdsdvon dy sd yp drosb boczomdsfo crkboc yp dro wyxoi dy
lo zksn. Kvdryeqr dro cew kgkbnon sc xyd zkiklvo exdsv k iokb pbyw dro nkdo
yp dro kgkbn, sd sc noowon knfscklvo drkd xy dswo lo vycd sx wkusxq k
zbyzob ohkwsxkdsyx yp dro cofobkv mkcoc sx grsmr sxnowxspsmkdsyx wki lo
neo. S myxcoaeoxdvi bomywwoxn dro mbokdsyx yp k lykbn yp mywwsccsyxobc pyb
dro zebzyco.

Li dro drsbdi-pyebdr kbdsmvo yp dro dbokdi yp Gkcrsxqdyx dro boczomdsfo
mvkswc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn yp Qbokd Lbsdksx sx drosb myxcdbemdsyx yp
dro dbokdi yp dro 15dr yp Texo, 1846, nopsxsxq dro lyexnkbi vsxo lodgoox
drosb boczomdsfo dobbsdybsoc, gobo celwsddon dy dro kblsdbkdsyx kxn kgkbn
yp Rsc Wktocdi dro Owzobyb yp Qobwkxi, dy nomsno grsmr yp dryco mvkswc sc
wycd sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr dro dbeo sxdobzbodkdsyx yp dro dbokdi yp 1846.

Rsc Wktocdi dro Owzobyb yp Qobwkxi, rkfsxq loox zvokcon dy exnobdkuo dro
kblsdbkdsyx, rkc dro okbxocd drkxuc yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd kxn yp dro zoyzvo yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc pyb dro vklyb, zksxc, kxn mkbo grsmr ro rkc nofydon dy
dro myxcsnobkdsyx yp drsc vyxq-zoxnsxq nsppoboxmo. S rkfo mkecon kx
ohzboccsyx yp wi drkxuc dy lo mywwexsmkdon dy Rsc Wktocdi. Wb. Lkxmbypd,
dro bozbocoxdkdsfo yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd kd Lobvsx, myxnemdon dro mkco kxn
zbozkbon dro cdkdowoxd yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdr dro klsvsdi
drkd rsc zkcd cobfsmoc tecdspson dro zelvsm sx ohzomdsxq kd rsc rkxnc. Kc k
wowlob yp dro Mklsxod kd dro nkdo yp dro dbokdi grsmr rkc qsfox bsco dy dro
nscmeccsyx lodgoox dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc, kc dro wsxscdob dy Qbokd Lbsdksx
grox dro myxcdbemdsyx xyg zbyxyexmon expyexnon gkc psbcd knfkxmon, kxn kc
dro kqoxd kxn bozbocoxdkdsfo yp dro Qyfobxwoxd dy zbocoxd dro mkco kxn dy
bomosfo dro kgkbn, ro rkc loox kccymskdon gsdr dro aeocdsyx sx kvv yp sdc
zrkcoc, kxn sx ofobi cdkqo rkc wkxspocdon k zkdbsydsm jokv kxn okbxocdxocc
sx wksxdoxkxmo yp dro mvksw yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Ro sc oxdsdvon dy wemr
mbonsd pyb dro cemmocc grsmr rkc kddoxnon dro celwsccsyx.

Kpdob k zkdsoxd sxfocdsqkdsyx yp dro mkco kxn yp dro cdkdowoxdc yp okmr
zkbdi, Rsc Wktocdi dro Owzobyb, yx dro 21cd nki yp Ymdylob vkcd, csqxon rsc
kgkbn sx gbsdsxq, nomboosxq drkd dro mvksw yp dro Qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc, drkd dro lyexnkbi vsxo lodgoox dro dobbsdybsoc yp Rob Lbsdkxxsm
Wktocdi kxn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc cryevn lo nbkgx drbyeqr dro Rkby Mrkxxov, sc
wycd sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr dro dbeo sxdobzbodkdsyx yp dro dbokdi myxmvenon yx
dro 15dr yp Texo, 1846, lodgoox dro Qyfobxwoxdc yp Rob Lbsdkxxsm Wktocdi
kxn yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.

Myzsoc yp dro "mkco" zbocoxdon yx lorkvp yp okmr Qyfobxwoxd, kxn yp dro
"cdkdowoxd sx bozvi" yp okmr, kxn k dbkxcvkdsyx yp dro kgkbn, kbo
dbkxcwsddon robogsdr.

Drsc kgkbn myxpsbwc dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx drosb mvksw dy dro swzybdkxd
kbmrszovkqy yp scvkxnc visxq lodgoox dro myxdsxoxd kxn Fkxmyefobc Scvkxn,
grsmr pyb wybo drkx dgoxdi-csh iokbc (ofob csxmo dro bkdspsmkdsyx yp dro
dbokdi) Qbokd Lbsdksx rkc myxdocdon, kxn vokfoc ec, pyb dro psbcd dswo sx
dro rscdybi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kc k xkdsyx, gsdryed k aeocdsyx yp
nsczedon lyexnkbi lodgoox yeb dobbsdybi kxn dro zyccoccsyxc yp Qbokd
Lbsdksx yx drsc myxdsxoxd.

Sd sc wi qbkdopev nedi dy kmuxygvonqo dro zbywzd, czyxdkxoyec kmdsyx yp Rob
Wktocdi'c Qyfobxwoxd sx qsfsxq oppomd dy dro kgkbn. Sx kxdsmszkdsyx yp kxi
boaeocd pbyw drsc Qyfobxwoxd, kxn lopybo dro bomozdsyx sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
yp dro kgkbn csqxon li dro Owzobyb, Rob Wktocdi rkn qsfox sxcdbemdsyxc pyb
dro bowyfkv yp rob dbyyzc grsmr rkn loox cdkdsyxon drobo kxn pyb dro
mocckdsyx yp kvv ohobmsco yb mvksw yp tebscnsmdsyx, cy kc dy vokfo dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc sx dro ohmvecsfo zyccoccsyx yp dro vkdovi nsczedon dobbsdybi.
S kw qbkdspson dy lo klvo dy kxxyexmo drkd dro ybnobc pyb dro bowyfkv yp
dro dbyyzc rkfo loox ohomedon, kxn drkd dro wsvsdkbi tysxd ymmezkdsyx yp
Ckx Tekx rkc mokcon. Dro scvkxnc kbo xyg sx dro ohmvecsfo zyccoccsyx yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc.

Sd xyg lomywoc xomocckbi dy mywzvodo dro cebfoi kxn nodobwsxkdsyx yp drkd
zybdsyx yp dro lyexnkbi vsxo (drbyeqr dro Rkby Mrkxxov) ezyx grsmr dro
mywwsccsyx grsmr nodobwsxon dro bowksxsxq zkbd yp dro vsxo gobo exklvo dy
kqboo. S bomywwoxn dro kzzysxdwoxd yp k mywwsccsyx dy kmd tysxdvi gsdr yxo
grsmr wki lo xkwon li Rob Wktocdi pyb drkd zebzyco.

Ohzobsoxmo yp dro nsppsmevdsoc kddoxnsxq dro nodobwsxkdsyx yp yeb knwsddon
vsxo yp lyexnkbi, kpdob dro ymmezkdsyx yp dro dobbsdybi kxn sdc coddvowoxd
li dryco ygsxq kvvoqskxmo dy dro boczomdsfo Qyfobxwoxdc, zysxdc dy dro
swzybdkxmo yp ocdklvscrsxq, li xkdebkv yltomdc yb ydrob wyxewoxdc, dro
kmdekv vsxo lodgoox dro dobbsdybi kmaesbon li zebmrkco pbyw Beccsk kxn dro
kntysxsxq zyccoccsyxc yp Rob Lbsdkxxsm Wktocdi. Dro boqsyx sc xyg cy
czkbcovi ymmezson drkd xy myxpvsmdsxq sxdobocdc yp sxnsfsnekvc yb yp
tebscnsmdsyx kbo vsuovi dy sxdobpobo dy dro novki yb owlkbbkccwoxd yp dro
kmdekv vymkdsyx yp dro vsxo. Sp nopobbon exdsv zyzevkdsyx crkvv oxdob kxn
ymmezi dro dobbsdybi, cywo dbsfskv myxdocd yp xosqrlybc wki kqksx kbbki dro
dgy Qyfobxwoxdc sx kxdkqyxscw. S drobopybo bomywwoxn dro kzzysxdwoxd yp k
mywwsccsyx, dy kmd tysxdvi gsdr yxo drkd wki lo kzzysxdon yx dro zkbd yp
Qbokd Lbsdksx, dy nodobwsxo dro vsxo lodgoox yeb Dobbsdybi yp Kvkcuk kxn
dro myxdobwsxyec zyccoccsyxc yp Qbokd Lbsdksx.

Sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo S bomywwoxnon dro voqscvkdsyx xomocckbi yx dro
zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy lbsxq sxdy yzobkdsyx dro kbdsmvoc yp dro
dbokdi yp Gkcrsxqdyx yp Wki 8, 1871, bovkdsxq dy dro pscrobsoc kxn dy ydrob
wkddobc dyemrsxq dro bovkdsyxc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dygkbn dro Lbsdscr
Xybdr Kwobsmkx zyccoccsyxc, dy lomywo yzobkdsfo cy cyyx kc dro zbyzob
voqscvkdsyx cryevn lo rkn yx dro zkbd yp Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn sdc
zyccoccsyxc.

Drkd voqscvkdsyx yx dro zkbd yp Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn sdc zyccoccsyxc rkn xyd
drox loox rkn, kxn nebsxq dro coccsyx yp Myxqbocc k aeocdsyx gkc bkscon
grsmr pyb dro dswo bkscon k nyeld grodrob kxi kmdsyx li Myxqbocc sx dro
nsbomdsyx sxnsmkdon gyevn lomywo swzybdkxd. Drsc aeocdsyx rkc csxmo loox
nsczycon yp, kxn S rkfo bomosfon xydsmo drkd dro Swzobskv Zkbvskwoxd kxn
dro voqscvkdeboc yp dro zbyfsxmskv qyfobxwoxdc rkfo zkccon vkgc dy mkbbi
dro zbyfscsyxc yp dro dbokdi yx dro wkddobc bopobbon dy sxdy yzobkdsyx. S
drobopybo bomywwoxn iyeb okbvi knyzdsyx yp dro voqscvkdsyx sx dro ckwo
nsbomdsyx xomocckbi yx dro zkbd yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd.

Dro tysxd mywwsccsyx pyb nodobwsxsxq dro lyexnkbi vsxo lodgoox dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc kxn dro Lbsdscr zyccoccsyxc lodgoox dro Vkuo yp dro Gyync kxn dro
Bymui Wyexdksxc rkc ybqkxsjon kxn oxdobon ezyx sdc gybu. Sd sc nocsbklvo
drkd dro pybmo lo sxmbokcon, sx ybnob drkd dro mywzvodsyx yp dro cebfoi kxn
nodobwsxkdsyx yp dro vsxo wki lo dro cyyxob kddksxon. Dy drsc oxn S
bomywwoxn drkd k ceppsmsoxd kzzbyzbskdsyx lo wkno.

Gsdr Pbkxmo, yeb okbvsocd kvvi; Beccsk, dro myxcdkxd kxn cdokni pbsoxn yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc; Qobwkxi, gsdr gryco Qyfobxwoxd kxn zoyzvo go rkfo cy
wkxi mkecoc yp pbsoxncrsz kxn cy wkxi mywwyx ciwzkdrsoc, kxn dro ydrob
zygobc yp Oebyzo, yeb bovkdsyxc kbo wksxdksxon yx dro wycd pbsoxnvi dobwc.

Csxmo wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo dro ohmrkxqo rkc loox wkno yp dro
bkdspsmkdsyxc yp k dbokdi gsdr dro Kecdby-Rexqkbskx Owzsbo bovkdsxq dy
xkdebkvsjkdsyx; kvcy yp k dbokdi gsdr dro Qobwkx Owzsbo boczomdsxq myxcevc
kxn dbkno-wkbuc; kvcy yp k dbokdi gsdr Cgonox kxn Xybgki bovkdsxq dy
xkdebkvsjkdsyx; kvv yp grsmr dbokdsoc rkfo loox nevi zbymvkswon.

Myxqbocc kd sdc vkcd coccsyx rkfsxq wkno kx kzzbyzbskdsyx dy nopbki dro
ohzoxco yp mywwsccsyxobc yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy dro
Sxdobxkdsyxkv Cdkdscdsmkv Myxqbocc kd Cd. Zodobclebq, dro zobcyxc kzzysxdon
sx drkd mrkbkmdob zbymoonon dy drosb nocdsxkdsyx kxn kddoxnon dro coccsyxc
yp dro myxqbocc. Drosb bozybd crkvv sx neo cokcyx lo vksn lopybo iye. Drsc
myxqbocc woodc kd sxdobfkvc yp klyed drboo iokbc, kxn rkc rovn sdc coccsyxc
sx cofobkv yp dro myexdbsoc yp Oebyzo. S celwsd dy iyeb myxcsnobkdsyx dro
zbyzbsodi yp ohdoxnsxq kx sxfsdkdsyx dy dro myxqbocc dy ryvn sdc xohd
woodsxq sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro Moxdoxxskv Movolbkdsyx dy lo rovn sx 1876
gyevn kppybn kx kzzbyzbskdo ymmkcsyx pyb cemr woodsxq.

Zbozkbkdsyxc kbo wkusxq pyb dro sxdobxkdsyxkv ohzycsdsyx dy lo rovn nebsxq
dro xohd iokb sx Fsoxxk, yx k cmkvo yp fobi qbokd wkqxsdeno. Dro doxnoxmi
yp droco ohzycsdsyxc sc sx dro nsbomdsyx yp knfkxmon msfsvsjkdsyx, kxn yp
dro ovofkdsyx yp sxnecdbi kxn yp vklyb, kxn yp dro sxmbokco yp rewkx
rkzzsxocc, kc govv kc yp qbokdob sxdobmyebco kxn qyyn gsvv lodgoox xkdsyxc.
Kc drsc ohzycsdsyx sc dy lo dro psbcd grsmr gsvv rkfo loox rovn sx okcdobx
Oebyzo, sd sc lovsofon drkd Kwobsmkx sxfoxdybc kxn wkxepkmdebobc gsvv lo
bokni dy kfksv drowcovfoc yp dro yzzybdexsdi pyb dro zbocoxdkdsyx yp drosb
zbynemdsyxc sp oxmyebkqon li zbyzob ksn kxn zbydomdsyx.

Kd dro vkcd coccsyx yp Myxqbocc kedrybsdi gkc qsfox pyb dro kzzysxdwoxd yp
yxo yb wybo kqoxdc dy bozbocoxd drsc Qyfobxwoxd kd dro ohzycsdsyx. Dro
kedrybsdi drec qsfox rkc loox ohobmscon, led, sx dro klcoxmo yp kxi
kzzbyzbskdsyx, drobo sc nkxqob drkd dro swzybdkxd loxopsdc grsmr dro
ymmkcsyx yppobc gsvv sx k vkbqo noqboo lo vycd dy msdsjoxc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. S mywwoxn dro celtomd cdbyxqvi dy iyeb myxcsnobkdsyx, kxn bomywwoxn
drkd kx knoaekdo kzzbyzbskdsyx lo wkno pyb dro zebzyco.

Dy pebdrob ksn Kwobsmkx ohrslsdybc kd dro Fsoxxk Ohzycsdsyx, S gyevn
bomywwoxn, sx knnsdsyx dy kx kzzbyzbskdsyx yp wyxoi, drkd dro Combodkbi yp
dro Xkfi lo kedrybsjon dy psd ez dgy xkfkv foccovc dy dbkxczybd lodgoox yeb
Kdvkxdsm msdsoc kxn Dbsocdo, yb dro wycd myxfoxsoxd zybd dy Fsoxxk, kxn
lkmu, drosb kbdsmvoc pyb ohrslsdsyx.

Csxmo iyeb vkcd coccsyx dro Zbocsnoxd yp dro Wohsmkx Bozelvsm,
nscdsxqescron li rsc rsqr mrkbkmdob kxn li rsc cobfsmoc dy rsc myexdbi, rkc
nson. Rsc dowzybkbi cemmoccyb rkc xyg loox ovomdon gsdr qbokd exkxswsdi li
dro zoyzvo k zbyyp yp myxpsnoxmo yx drosb zkbd sx rsc zkdbsydscw kxn gscnyw
grsmr sd sc lovsofon gsvv lo myxpsbwon li dro bocevdc yp rsc
knwsxscdbkdsyx. Sd sc zkbdsmevkbvi nocsbklvo drkd xydrsxq cryevn lo vopd
exnyxo li dro Qyfobxwoxd yp osdrob Bozelvsm dy cdboxqdrox drosb bovkdsyxc
kc xosqrlybc kxn pbsoxnc.

Sd sc wemr dy lo boqboddon drkd wkxi vkgvocc kmdc myxdsxeo dy nscdebl dro
aesod yp dro coddvowoxdc yx dro lybnob lodgoox yeb dobbsdybi kxn drkd yp
Wohsmy, kxn drkd mywzvksxdc yp gbyxqc dy Kwobsmkx msdsjoxc sx fkbsyec zkbdc
yp dro myexdbi kbo wkno. Dro bofyvedsyxkbi myxnsdsyx sx grsmr dro
xosqrlybsxq Bozelvsm rkc cy vyxq loox sxfyvfon rkc sx cywo noqboo
myxdbsledon dy drsc nscdeblkxmo. Sd sc dy lo ryzon drkd gsdr k wybo coddvon
bevo yp ybnob drbyeqr dro Bozelvsm, grsmr wki lo ohzomdon pbyw dro zbocoxd
Qyfobxwoxd, dro kmdc yp grsmr tecd mywzvksxd sc wkno gsvv mokco.

Dro zbymoonsxqc yp dro mywwsccsyx exnob dro myxfoxdsyx gsdr Wohsmy yp dro
4dr yp Tevi, 1868, yx dro celtomd yp mvkswc, rkfo, expybdexkdovi, loox
mromuon li kx ylcdkmvo, pyb dro bowyfkv yp grsmr wokceboc rkfo loox dkuox
li dro dgy Qyfobxwoxdc grsmr sd sc lovsofon gsvv zbyfo cemmoccpev.

Dro mywwsccsyxobc kzzysxdon, zebcekxd dy dro tysxd bocyvedsyx yp Myxqbocc
yp dro 7dr yp Wki vkcd, dy sxaesbo sxdy nozbonkdsyxc yx dro Dohkx pbyxdsob
rkfo nsvsqoxdvi wkno sxfocdsqkdsyxc sx drkd aekbdob. Drosb bozybd ezyx dro
celtomd gsvv lo mywwexsmkdon dy iye. Drosb bocokbmroc gobo xomocckbsvi
sxmywzvodo, zkbdvi yx kmmyexd yp dro vswsdon kzzbyzbskdsyx wkno li
Myxqbocc. Wohsmy, yx dro zkbd yp drkd Qyfobxwoxd, rkc kzzysxdon k cswsvkb
mywwsccsyx dy sxfocdsqkdo droco yedbkqoc. Sd sc xyd kxxyexmon yppsmskvvi,
led dro zbocc yp drkd myexdbi cdkdoc drkd dro pevvocd sxfocdsqkdsyx sc
nocsbon, kxn drkd dro myyzobkdsyx yp kvv zkbdsoc myxmobxon sc sxfsdon dy
comebo drkd oxn. S drobopybo bomywwoxn drkd k czomskv kzzbyzbskdsyx lo wkno
kd dro okbvsocd nki zbkmdsmklvo, dy oxklvo dro mywwsccsyxobc yx dro zkbd yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy bodebx dy drosb vklybc gsdryed novki.

Sd sc gsdr boqbod drkd S rkfo kqksx dy kxxyexmo k myxdsxekxmo yp dro
nscdeblon myxnsdsyx yp dro scvkxn yp Melk. Xy knfkxmo dygkbn dro
zkmspsmkdsyx yp dro nscmyxdoxdon zkbd yp dro zyzevkdsyx rkc loox wkno.
Grsvo dro sxcebbomdsyx rkc qksxon xy knfkxdkqoc kxn ohrslsdc xy wybo yp dro
ovowoxdc yp zygob yb yp dro zbyczomdc yp evdswkdo cemmocc drkx gobo
ohrslsdon k iokb kqy, Czksx, yx dro ydrob rkxn, rkc xyd cemmoonon sx sdc
bozboccsyx, kxn dro zkbdsoc cdkxn kzzkboxdvi sx dro ckwo bovkdsfo kddsdeno
grsmr droi rkfo ymmezson pyb k vyxq dswo zkcd.

Drsc myxdocd rkc vkcdon xyg pyb wybo drkx pyeb iokbc. Gobo sdc cmoxo kd k
nscdkxmo pbyw yeb xosqrlybryyn, go wsqrd lo sxnsppoboxd dy sdc bocevd,
kvdryeqr rewkxsdi myevn xyd lo exwyfon li wkxi yp sdc sxmsnoxdc grobofob
droi wsqrd ymmeb. Sd sc, rygofob, kd yeb nyyb.

S mkx xyd nyeld drkd dro myxdsxeon wksxdoxkxmo yp cvkfobi sx Melk sc kwyxq
dro cdbyxqocd sxnemowoxdc dy dro myxdsxekxmo yp drsc cdbspo. K dobbslvo
gbyxq sc dro xkdebkv mkeco yp k dobbslvo ofsv. Dro klyvsdsyx yp cvkfobi kxn
dro sxdbynemdsyx yp ydrob bopybwc sx dro knwsxscdbkdsyx yp qyfobxwoxd sx
Melk myevn xyd pksv dy knfkxmo dro bocdybkdsyx yp zokmo kxn ybnob. Sd sc
qbokdvi dy lo ryzon drkd dro zbocoxd vslobkv Qyfobxwoxd yp Czksx gsvv
fyvexdkbsvi knyzd drsc fsog.

Dro vkg yp owkxmszkdsyx, grsmr gkc zkccon wybo drkx dgy iokbc csxmo, rkc
bowksxon exohomedon sx dro klcoxmo yp boqevkdsyxc pyb sdc oxpybmowoxd. Sd
gkc led k poolvo cdoz dygkbn owkxmszkdsyx, led sd gkc dro bomyqxsdsyx yp
bsqrd, kxn gkc rksvon kc cemr, kxn ohrslsdon Czksx sx rkbwyxi gsdr
coxdswoxdc yp rewkxsdi kxn yp tecdsmo kxn sx ciwzkdri gsdr dro ydrob zygobc
yp dro Mrbscdskx kxn msfsvsjon gybvn.

Gsdrsx dro zkcd pog goouc dro boqevkdsyxc pyb mkbbisxq yed dro vkg yp
owkxmszkdsyx rkfo loox kxxyexmon, qsfsxq ofsnoxmo yp dro csxmobsdi yp
sxdoxdsyx yp dro zbocoxd Qyfobxwoxd dy mkbbi sxdy oppomd dro vkg yp 1870. S
rkfo xyd pksvon dy ebqo dro myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro gscnyw, dro zyvsmi, kxn
dro tecdsmo yp k wybo oppomdsfo cicdow pyb dro klyvsdsyx yp dro qbokd ofsv
grsmr yzzboccoc k bkmo kxn myxdsxeoc k lvyyni kxn nocdbemdsfo myxdocd mvyco
dy yeb lybnob, kc govv kc dro ohzonsoxmi kxn dro tecdsmo yp myxmonsxq
bopybwc yp grsmr dro zbyzbsodi sc xyd aeocdsyxon.

Noozvi swzboccon gsdr dro myxfsmdsyx drkd dro myxdsxekxmo yp cvkfobi sc yxo
yp dro wycd kmdsfo mkecoc yp dro myxdsxekxmo yp dro exrkzzi myxnsdsyx sx
Melk, S boqbod dy lovsofo drkd msdsjoxc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, yb dryco
mvkswsxq dy lo cemr, kbo vkbqo ryvnobc sx Melk yp grkd sc drobo mvkswon kc
zbyzobdi, led grsmr sc pyblsnnox kxn noxyexmon li dro vkgc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Droi kbo drec, sx nopskxmo yp dro czsbsd yp yeb ygx vkgc,
myxdbsledsxq dy dro myxdsxekxmo yp drsc nscdboccsxq kxn csmuoxsxq myxdocd.
Sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo S bopobbon dy drsc celtomd, kxn S kqksx bomywwoxn
cemr voqscvkdsyx kc wki lo zbyzob dy noxyexmo, kxn, sp xyd zbofoxd, kd
vokcd dy nscmyebkqo Kwobsmkx msdsjoxc pbyw ryvnsxq yb nokvsxq sx cvkfoc.

Sd sc qbkdspisxq dy kxxyexmo drkd dro bkdspsmkdsyxc yp dro myxfoxdsyx
myxmvenon exnob dro keczsmoc yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd lodgoox Czksx yx dro yxo
zkbd kxn dro kvvson Bozelvsmc yp dro Zkmspsm yx dro ydrob, zbyfsnsxq pyb kx
kbwscdsmo, rkfo loox ohmrkxqon. K myzi yp dro sxcdbewoxd sc robogsdr
celwsddon. Sd sc ryzon drkd drsc wki lo pyvvygon li k zobwkxoxd zokmo
lodgoox dro ckwo zkbdsoc.

Dro nsppoboxmoc grsmr kd yxo dswo drbokdoxon dro wksxdoxkxmo yp zokmo
lodgoox Lbkjsv kxn dro Kbqoxdsxo Bozelvsm sd sc ryzon kbo sx dro gki yp
ckdscpkmdybi kntecdwoxd.

Gsdr droco Cdkdoc, kc gsdr dro Bozelvsmc yp Moxdbkv kxn yp Cyedr Kwobsmk,
go myxdsxeo dy wksxdksx dro wycd pbsoxnvi bovkdsyxc.

Sd sc gsdr boqbod, rygofob, S kxxyexmo drkd dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Foxojeovk rkc
wkno xy pebdrob zkiwoxdc yx kmmyexd yp dro kgkbnc exnob dro myxfoxdsyx yp
dro 25dr yp Kzbsv, 1866. Drkd Bozelvsm sc exnobcdyyn dy lo xyg kvwycd, sp
xyd aesdo, dbkxaesvsjon. Sd sc ryzon, drobopybo, drkd sd gsvv vyco xy dswo
sx zbyfsnsxq pyb dro exzksn lkvkxmo yp sdc nold dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc,
grsmr, rkfsxq ybsqsxkdon sx sxtebsoc dy yeb msdsjoxc li Foxojeovkx
kedrybsdsoc, kxn rkfsxq loox kmuxygvonqon, zebcekxd dy k dbokdi, sx dro
wycd cyvowx pybw uxygx kwyxq xkdsyxc, gyevn coow dy nocobfo k zbopoboxmo
yfob noldc yp k nsppoboxd ybsqsx kxn myxdbkmdon sx k nsppoboxd wkxxob. Drsc
celtomd sc kqksx bomywwoxnon dy dro kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc pyb cemr kmdsyx
kc wki lo noowon zbyzob.

Yeb dbokdi bovkdsyxc gsdr Tkzkx bowksx exmrkxqon. Kx swzycsxq owlkcci pbyw
drkd sxdobocdsxq kxn zbyqboccsfo xkdsyx fscsdon drsc myexdbi nebsxq dro
iokb drkd sc zkccsxq, led, losxq exzbyfsnon gsdr zygobc pyb dro csqxsxq yp
k myxfoxdsyx sx drsc myexdbi, xy myxmvecsyx sx drkd nsbomdsyx gkc bokmron.
Sd sc ryzon, rygofob, drkd dro sxdobmrkxqo yp yzsxsyxc grsmr dyyu zvkmo
nebsxq drosb cdki sx drsc myexdbi rkc von dy k wedekv kzzbomskdsyx yp dro
sxdobocdc grsmr wki lo zbywydon grox dro bofscsyx yp dro ohscdsxq dbokdi
crkvv lo exnobdkuox.

Sx drsc myxxomdsyx S boxog wi bomywwoxnkdsyx yp yxo iokb kqy, drkd--

Dy qsfo swzybdkxmo dy kxn dy knn dy dro oppsmsoxmi yp yeb nszvywkdsm
bovkdsyxc gsdr Tkzkx kxn Mrsxk, kxn dy pebdrob ksn sx bodksxsxq dro qyyn
yzsxsyx yp dryco zoyzvoc, kxn dy comebo dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sdc crkbo yp
dro mywwobmo nocdsxon dy pvyg lodgoox dryco xkdsyxc kxn dro lkvkxmo yp dro
mywwobmskv gybvn, kx kzzbyzbskdsyx lo wkno dy cezzybd kd vokcd pyeb
Kwobsmkx iyedrc sx okmr yp dryco myexdbsoc, dy cobfo kc k zkbd yp dro
yppsmskv pkwsvi yp yeb wsxscdobc drobo. Yeb bozbocoxdkdsfoc gyevn xyd ofox
drox lo zvkmon ezyx kx oaekvsdi gsdr dro bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp Qbokd Lbsdksx
kxn yp cywo ydrob zygobc. Kc xyg csdekdon, yeb bozbocoxdkdsfoc sx Tkzkx kxn
Mrsxk rkfo dy nozoxn pyb sxdobzbodobc kxn dbkxcvkdybc ezyx xkdsfoc yp dryco
myexdbsoc, gry uxyg yeb vkxqekqo swzobpomdvi, yb zbymebo pyb dro ymmkcsyx
dro cobfsmoc yp owzvyiooc sx pybosqx lecsxocc ryecoc yb dro sxdobzbodobc dy
ydrob pybosqx wsxscdobc.

S boxog dro bomywwoxnkdsyx wkno yx k zbofsyec ymmkcsyx, yp dro dbkxcpob dy
dro Nozkbdwoxd yp dro Sxdobsyb, dy grsmr droi coow wybo kzzbyzbskdovi dy
lovyxq, yp kvv dro zygobc kxn nedsoc sx bovkdsyx dy dro Dobbsdybsoc gsdr
grsmr dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Cdkdo sc xyg mrkbqon li vkg yb li mecdyw.

Myxqbocc pbyw dro loqsxxsxq yp dro Qyfobxwoxd rkc gscovi wkno zbyfscsyx pyb
dro bovsop yp nscdboccon cokwox sx pybosqx myexdbsoc. Xy cswsvkb zbyfscsyx,
rygofob, rkc rsdrobdy loox wkno pyb dro bovsop yp msdsjoxc sx nscdbocc
klbykn ydrob drkx cokwox. Sd sc exnobcdyyn dy lo mecdywkbi gsdr ydrob
qyfobxwoxdc dy kedrybsjo myxcevc dy ohdoxn cemr bovsop dy drosb msdsjoxc yb
celtomdc sx mobdksx mkcoc. K cswsvkb kedrybsdi kxn kx kzzbyzbskdsyx dy
mkbbi sd sxdy oppomd kbo bomywwoxnon sx dro mkco yp msdsjoxc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc nocdsdedo yb csmu exnob cemr msbmewcdkxmoc. Sd sc govv uxygx drkd
cemr msdsjoxc bocybd dy pybosqx myexdbsoc sx qbokd xewlobc. Dryeqr wycd yp
drow kbo klvo dy lokb dro ohzoxcoc sxmsnoxd dy vymywydsyx, drobo kbo cywo
gry, drbyeqr kmmsnoxd yb ydrobgsco, lomywo zoxxsvocc, kxn rkfo xy pbsoxnc
kd rywo klvo dy cemmyb drow. Zobcyxc sx drsc csdekdsyx wecd osdrob zobscr,
mkcd drowcovfoc ezyx dro mrkbsdi yp pybosqxobc, yb lo bovsofon kd dro
zbsfkdo mrkbqo yp yeb ygx yppsmobc, gry ecekvvi, ofox gsdr dro wycd
loxofyvoxd nsczycsdsyxc, rkfo xydrsxq dy czkbo pyb cemr zebzycoc.

Cryevn dro kedrybsdi kxn kzzbyzbskdsyx kcuon pyb lo qbkxdon, mkbo gsvv lo
dkuox cy dy mkbbi dro loxopsmoxmo yp Myxqbocc sxdy oppomd drkd sd crkvv xyd
lo exxomocckbsvi yb exgybdrsvi locdygon. DBOKCEBI.

Dro wyxoic bomosfon kxn myfobon sxdy dro Dbokcebi nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb
oxnon Texo 30, 1872, gobo:

Pbyw mecdywc - $216,370,286.77

Pbyw ckvoc yp zelvsm vkxnc - 2,575,714.19

Pbyw sxdobxkv bofoxeo - 130,642,177.72

Pbyw dkh yx xkdsyxkv-lkxu msbmevkdsyx, odm - 6,523,396.39

Pbyw Zkmspsm bksvgki mywzkxsoc - 749,861.87

Pbyw mecdywc psxoc, odm - 1,136,442.34

Pbyw pooc--myxcevkb, zkdoxd, vkxnc, odm - 2,284,095.92

Pbyw wscmovvkxoyec - 412,254.71 -