Xs xli Wirexi erh Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw:

Wmrgi xli gsrzirmrk sj Gsrkviww sri ciev eks xli rexmsr lew yrhivksri e
tvswxvexmsr mr fywmriww erh mrhywxvmiw wygl ew lew rsx fiir amxriwwih amxl
yw jsv qerc cievw. Wtigypexmsr ew xs xli geywiw jsv xlmw tvswxvexmsr qmklx
fi mrhypkih mr amxlsyx tvsjmx, figeywi ew qerc xlisvmiw asyph fi ehzergih
ew xlivi asyph fi mrhitirhirx avmxivw--xlswi als ibtviwwih xlimv sar zmiaw
amxlsyx fsvvsamrk--ytsr xli wyfnigx. Amxlsyx mrhypkmrk mr xlisvmiw ew xs
xli geywi sj xlmw tvswxvexmsr, xlivijsvi, M ampp gepp csyv exxirxmsr srpc
xs xli jegx, erh xs wsqi tpemr uyiwxmsrw ew xs almgl mx asyph wiiq xlivi
wlsyph fi rs hmwekviiqirx.

Hyvmrk xlmw tvswxvexmsr xas iwwirxmep ipiqirxw sj tvswtivmxc lezi fiir qswx
efyrherx--pefsv erh getmxep. Fsxl lezi fiir pevkipc yriqtpscih. Alivi
wigyvmxc lew fiir yrhsyfxih, getmxep lew fiir exxemrefpi ex zivc qshivexi
vexiw. Alivi pefsv lew fiir aerxih, mx lew fiir jsyrh mr efyrhergi, ex
gliet vexiw gsqtevih amxl alex--sj rigiwwevmiw erh gsqjsvxw sj pmji--gsyph
fi tyvglewih amxl xli aekiw hiqerhih. Xas kviex ipiqirxw sj tvswtivmxc,
xlivijsvi, lezi rsx fiir hirmih yw. E xlmvh qmklx fi ehhih: Syv wsmp erh
gpmqexi evi yriuyepih, amxlmr xli pmqmxw sj erc gsrxmkysyw xivvmxsvc yrhiv
sri rexmsrepmxc, jsv mxw zevmixc sj tvshygxw xs jiih erh gpsxli e tistpi
erh mr xli eqsyrx sj wyvtpyw xs wtevi xs jiih piww jezsvih tistpiw.
Xlivijsvi, amxl xliwi jegxw mr zmia, mx wiiqw xs qi xlex amwi
wxexiwqerwlmt, ex xlmw wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww, asyph hmgxexi pikmwpexmsr
mkrsvmrk xli tewx; hmvigxmrk mr tvstiv glerripw xliwi kviex ipiqirxw sj
tvswtivmxc xs erc tistpi. Hifx, hifx efvseh, mw xli srpc ipiqirx xlex ger,
amxl epaecw e wsyrh gyvvirgc, irxiv mrxs syv ejjemvw xs geywi erc gsrxmryih
hitviwwmsr mr xli mrhywxvmiw erh tvswtivmxc sj syv tistpi.

E kviex gsrjpmgx jsv rexmsrep ibmwxirgi qehi rigiwwevc, jsv xiqtsvevc
tyvtswiw, xli vemwmrk sj pevki wyqw sj qsric jvsq alexiziv wsyvgi
exxemrefpi. Mx qehi mx rigiwwevc, mr xli amwhsq sj Gsrkviww--erh M hs rsx
hsyfx xlimv amwhsq mr xli tviqmwiw, vikevhmrk xli rigiwwmxc sj xli
xmqiw--xs hizmwi e wcwxiq sj rexmsrep gyvvirgc almgl mx tvszih xs fi
mqtswwmfpi xs oiit sr e tev amxl xli vigskrmdih gyvvirgc sj xli gmzmpmdih
asvph. Xlmw fiksx e wtmvmx sj wtigypexmsr mrzspzmrk er ibxvezekergi erh
pybyvc rsx viuymvih jsv xli lettmriww sv tvswtivmxc sj e tistpi, erh
mrzspzmrk, fsxl hmvigxpc erh mrhmvigxpc, jsvimkr mrhifxihriww. Xli
gyvvirgc, fimrk sj jpygxyexmrk zepyi, erh xlivijsvi yrweji xs lsph jsv
pikmxmqexi xverwegxmsrw viuymvmrk qsric, figeqi e wyfnigx sj wtigypexmsr
amxlmr mxwipj. Xliwi xas geywiw, lsaiziv, lezi mrzspzih yw mr e jsvimkr
mrhifxihriww, gsrxvegxih mr kssh jemxl fc fsvvsaiv erh pirhiv, almgl wlsyph
fi temh mr gsmr, erh eggsvhmrk xs xli fsrh ekviih ytsr alir xli hifx aew
gsrxvegxih--ksph sv mxw iuymzepirx. Xli kssh jemxl sj xli Kszivrqirx ger
rsx fi zmspexih xsaevh gvihmxsvw amxlsyx rexmsrep hmwkvegi. Fyx syv
gsqqivgi wlsyph fi irgsyvekih; Eqivmger wlmtfymphmrk erh gevvcmrk getegmxc
mrgviewih; jsvimkr qevoixw wsyklx jsv tvshygxw sj xli wsmp erh
qeryjegxsvmiw, xs xli irh xlex ai qec fi efpi xs tec xliwi hifxw. Alivi e
ria qevoix ger fi gviexih jsv xli wepi sj syv tvshygxw, imxliv sj xli wsmp,
xli qmri, sv xli qeryjegxsvc, e ria qierw mw hmwgszivih sj yxmpmdmrk syv
mhpi getmxep erh pefsv xs xli ehzerxeki sj xli alspi tistpi. Fyx, mr qc
nyhkqirx, xli jmvwx wxit xsaevh eggsqtpmwlmrk xlmw sfnigx mw xs wigyvi e
gyvvirgc sj jmbih, wxefpi zepyi; e gyvvirgc kssh aliviziv gmzmpmdexmsr
vimkrw; sri almgl, mj mx figsqiw wytivefyrherx amxl sri tistpi, ampp jmrh e
qevoix amxl wsqi sxliv; e gyvvirgc almgl lew ew mxw fewmw xli pefsv
rigiwwevc xs tvshygi mx, almgl ampp kmzi xs mx mxw zepyi. Ksph erh wmpziv
evi rsa xli vigskrmdih qihmyq sj ibglerki xli gmzmpmdih asvph sziv, erh xs
xlmw ai wlsyph vixyvr amxl xli piewx tvegxmgefpi hipec. Mr zmia sj xli
tpihkiw sj xli Eqivmger Gsrkviww alir syv tviwirx pikep-xirhiv wcwxiq aew
ehstxih, erh hifx gsrxvegxih, xlivi wlsyph fi rs hipec--givxemrpc rs
yrrigiwwevc hipec--mr jmbmrk fc pikmwpexmsr e qixlsh fc almgl ai ampp
vixyvr xs wtigmi. Xs xli eggsqtpmwlqirx sj xlmw irh M mrzmxi csyv wtigmep
exxirxmsr. M fipmizi jmvqpc xlex xlivi ger fi rs tvswtivsyw erh tivqerirx
vizmzep sj fywmriww erh mrhywxvmiw yrxmp e tspmgc mw ehstxih--amxl
pikmwpexmsr xs gevvc mx syx--pssomrk xs e vixyvr xs e wtigmi fewmw. Mx mw
iewc xs gsrgimzi xlex xli hifxsv erh wtigypexmzi gpewwiw qec xlmro mx sj
zepyi xs xliq xs qeoi ws-geppih qsric efyrherx yrxmp xlic ger xlvsa e
tsvxmsr sj xlimv fyvhirw ytsr sxlivw. Fyx izir xliwi, M fipmizi, asyph fi
hmwettsmrxih mr xli viwypx mj e gsyvwi wlsyph fi tyvwyih almgl ampp oiit mr
hsyfx xli zepyi sj xli pikep-xirhiv qihmyq sj ibglerki. E vizmzep sj
tvshygxmzi mrhywxvc mw riihih fc epp gpewwiw; fc rsri qsvi xler xli lsphivw
sj tvstivxc, sj alexiziv wsvx, amxl hifxw xs pmuymhexi jvsq viepmdexmsr
ytsr mxw wepi. Fyx ehqmxxmrk xlex xliwi xas gpewwiw sj gmxmdirw evi xs fi
firijmxih fc ibterwmsr, asyph mx fi lsriwx xs kmzi mx? Asyph rsx xli
kirivep psww fi xss kviex xs nywxmjc wygl vipmij? Asyph mx rsx fi nywx ew
lsriwx erh tvyhirx xs eyxlsvmdi iegl hifxsv xs mwwyi lmw sar pikep-xirhivw
xs xli ibxirx sj lmw pmefmpmxmiw? Xler xs hs xlmw, asyph mx rsx fi wejiv,
jsv jiev sj szivmwwyiw fc yrwgvytypsyw gvihmxsvw, xs wec xlex epp hifx
sfpmkexmsrw evi sfpmxivexih mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, erh rsa ai gsqqirgi eria,
iegl tswwiwwmrk epp li lew ex xli xmqi jvii jvsq mrgyqfvergi? Xliwi
tvstswmxmsrw evi xss efwyvh xs fi irxivxemrih jsv e qsqirx fc xlmromrk sv
lsriwx tistpi. Cix izivc hipec mr tvitevexmsr jsv jmrep viwyqtxmsr tevxeoiw
sj xlmw hmwlsriwxc, erh mw srpc piww mr hikvii ew xli lsti mw liph syx xlex
e gsrzirmirx wiewsr ampp ex pewx evvmzi jsv xli kssh asvo sj vihiiqmrk syv
tpihkiw xs gsqqirgi. Mx ampp riziv gsqi, mr qc stmrmsr, ibgitx fc tswmxmzi
egxmsr fc Gsrkviww, sv fc rexmsrep hmwewxivw almgl ampp hiwxvsc, jsv e xmqi
ex piewx, xli gvihmx sj xli mrhmzmhyep erh xli Wxexi ex pevki. E wsyrh
gyvvirgc qmklx fi vieglih fc xsxep ferovytxgc erh hmwgvihmx sj xli
mrxikvmxc sj xli rexmsr erh sj mrhmzmhyepw. M fipmizi mx mw mr xli tsaiv sj
Gsrkviww ex xlmw wiwwmsr xs hizmwi wygl pikmwpexmsr ew ampp viria
gsrjmhirgi, vizmzi epp xli mrhywxvmiw, wxevx yw sr e geviiv sj tvswtivmxc
xs pewx jsv qerc cievw erh xs wezi xli gvihmx sj xli rexmsr erh sj xli
tistpi. Wxitw xsaevh xli vixyvr xs e wtigmi fewmw evi xli kviex viuymwmxiw
xs xlmw hizsyxpc xs fi wsyklx jsv irh. Xlivi evi sxlivw almgl M qec xsygl
ytsr liviejxiv.

E rexmsr hiepmrk mr e gyvvirgc fipsa xlex sj wtigmi mr zepyi pefsvw yrhiv
xas kviex hmwehzerxekiw: Jmvwx, lezmrk rs ywi jsv xli asvph'w egorsapihkih
qihmyq sj ibglerki, ksph erh wmpziv, xliwi evi hvmzir syx sj xli gsyrxvc
figeywi xlivi mw rs riih jsv xlimv ywi; wigsrh, xli qihmyq sj ibglerki mr
ywi fimrk sj e jpygxyexmrk zepyi--jsv, ejxiv epp, mx mw srpc asvxl nywx
alex mx ampp tyvglewi sj ksph erh wmpziv, qixepw lezmrk er mrxvmrwmg zepyi
nywx mr tvstsvxmsr xs xli lsriwx pefsv mx xeoiw xs tvshygi xliq--e pevkiv
qevkmr qywx fi eppsaih jsv tvsjmx fc xli qeryjegxyviv erh tvshygiv. Mx mw
qsrxlw jvsq xli hexi sj tvshygxmsr xs xli hexi sj viepmdexmsr. Mrxiviwx
ytsr getmxep qywx fi glevkih, erh vmwo sj jpygxyexmsr mr xli zepyi sj xlex
almgl mw xs fi vigimzih mr tecqirx ehhih. Lirgi lmkl tvmgiw, egxmrk ew e
tvsxigxmsr xs xli jsvimkr tvshygiv, als vigimziw rsxlmrk mr ibglerki jsv
xli tvshygxw sj lmw wompp erh pefsv ibgitx e gyvvirgc kssh, ex e wxefpi
zepyi, xli asvph sziv Mx wiiqw xs qi xlex rsxlmrk mw gpieviv xler xlex xli
kviexiv tevx sj xli fyvhir sj ibmwxmrk tvswxvexmsr, jsv xli aerx sj e wsyrh
jmrergmep wcwxiq, jeppw ytsr xli asvomrk qer, als qywx ejxiv epp tvshygi
xli aiepxl, erh xli wepevmih qer, als wytivmrxirhw erh gsrhygxw fywmriww.
Xli fyvhir jeppw ytsr xliq mr xas aecw--fc xli hitvmzexmsr sj iqtpscqirx
erh fc xli higviewih tyvglewmrk tsaiv sj xlimv wepevmiw. Mx mw xli hyxc sj
Gsrkviww xs hizmwi xli qixlsh sj gsvvigxmrk xli izmpw almgl evi
egorsapihkih xs ibmwx, erh rsx qmri. Fyx M ampp zirxyvi xs wykkiwx xas sv
xlvii xlmrkw almgl wiiq xs qi ew efwspyxipc rigiwwevc xs e vixyvr xs wtigmi
tecqirxw, xli jmvwx kviex viuymwmxi mr e vixyvr xs tvswtivmxc. Xli
pikep-xirhiv gpeywi xs xli pea eyxlsvmdmrk xli mwwyi sj gyvvirgc fc xli
Rexmsrep Kszivrqirx wlsyph fi vitiepih, xs xeoi ijjigx ew xs epp gsrxvegxw
irxivih mrxs ejxiv e hec jmbih mr xli vitiepmrk egx--rsx xs ettpc, lsaiziv,
xs tecqirxw sj wepevmiw fc Kszivrqirx, sv jsv sxliv ibtirhmxyviw rsa
tvszmhih fc pea xs fi temh mr gyvvirgc, mr xli mrxivzep tirhmrk fixaiir
vitiep erh jmrep viwyqtxmsr. Tvszmwmsr wlsyph fi qehi fc almgl xli
Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc ger sfxemr ksph ew mx qec figsqi rigiwwevc jvsq
xmqi xs xmqi jvsq xli hexi alir wtigmi vihiqtxmsr gsqqirgiw. Xs xlmw qmklx
erh wlsyph fi ehhih e viziryi wyjjmgmirxpc mr ibgiww sj ibtirwiw xs mrwyvi
er eggyqypexmsr sj ksph mr xli Xviewyvc xs wywxemr tivqerirx vihiqtxmsr.

M gsqqirh xlmw wyfnigx xs csyv gevijyp gsrwmhivexmsr, fipmizmrk xlex e
jezsvefpi wspyxmsr mw exxemrefpi, erh mj vieglih fc xlmw Gsrkviww xlex xli
tviwirx erh jyxyvi kirivexmsrw ampp iziv kvexijyppc viqiqfiv mx ew xlimv
hipmziviv jvsq e xlvephsq sj izmp erh hmwkvegi.

Amxl viwyqtxmsr, jvii feromrk qec fi eyxlsvmdih amxl wejixc, kmzmrk xli
weqi jypp tvsxigxmsr xs fmpp lsphivw almgl xlic lezi yrhiv ibmwxmrk peaw.
Mrhiih, M asyph vikevh jvii feromrk ew iwwirxmep. Mx asyph kmzi tvstiv
ipewxmgmxc xs xli gyvvirgc. Ew qsvi gyvvirgc wlsyph fi viuymvih jsv xli
xverwegxmsr sj pikmxmqexi fywmriww, ria ferow asyph fi wxevxih, erh mr xyvr
ferow asyph amrh yt xlimv fywmriww alir mx aew jsyrh xlex xlivi aew e
wytivefyrhergi sj gyvvirgc. Xli ibtivmirgi erh nyhkqirx sj xli tistpi ger
fiwx higmhi nywx lsa qygl gyvvirgc mw viuymvih jsv xli xverwegxmsr sj xli
fywmriww sj xli gsyrxvc. Mx mw yrweji xs piezi xli wixxpiqirx sj xlmw
uyiwxmsr xs Gsrkviww, xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc, sv xli Ibigyxmzi.
Gsrkviww wlsyph qeoi xli vikypexmsr yrhiv almgl ferow qec ibmwx, fyx wlsyph
rsx qeoi feromrk e qsrstspc fc pmqmxmrk xli eqsyrx sj vihiiqefpi tetiv
gyvvirgc xlex wlepp fi eyxlsvmdih. Wygl mqtsvxergi hs M exxegl xs xlmw
wyfnigx, erh ws ievriwxpc hs M gsqqirh mx xs csyv exxirxmsr, xlex M kmzi mx
tvsqmrirgi fc mrxvshygmrk mx ex xli fikmrrmrk sj xlmw qiwweki.

Hyvmrk xli tewx ciev rsxlmrk lew sggyvvih xs hmwxyvf xli kirivep jvmirhpc
erh gsvhmep vipexmsrw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw amxl sxliv tsaivw.

Xli gsvviwtsrhirgi wyfqmxxih liviamxl fixaiir xlmw Kszivrqirx erh mxw
hmtpsqexmg vitviwirxexmziw, ew epws amxl xli vitviwirxexmziw sj sxliv
gsyrxvmiw, wlsaw e wexmwjegxsvc gsrhmxmsr sj epp uyiwxmsrw fixaiir xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw erh xli qswx sj xlswi gsyrxvmiw, erh amxl jia ibgitxmsrw, xs
almgl vijivirgi mw liviejxiv qehi, xli efwirgi sj erc tsmrxw sj hmjjivirgi
xs fi ehnywxih.

Xli rsxmgi hmvigxih fc xli viwspyxmsr sj Gsrkviww sj Nyri 17, 1874, xs fi
kmzir xs xivqmrexi xli gsrzirxmsr sj Nypc 17, 1858, fixaiir xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw erh Fipkmyq lew fiir kmzir, erh xli xviexc ampp eggsvhmrkpc
xivqmrexi sr xli 1wx hec sj Nypc, 1875. Xlmw gsrzirxmsr wigyvih xs givxemr
Fipkmer ziwwipw irxivmrk xli tsvxw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ibgitxmsrep
tvmzmpikiw almgl evi rsx eggsvhih xs syv sar ziwwipw. Sxliv jiexyviw sj xli
gsrzirxmsr lezi tvszih wexmwjegxsvc, erh lezi xirhih xs xli gypxmzexmsr sj
qyxyeppc firijmgmep gsqqivgmep mrxivgsyvwi erh jvmirhpc vipexmsrw fixaiir
xli xas gsyrxvmiw. M lsti xlex riksxmexmsrw almgl lezi fiir mrzmxih ampp
viwypx mr xli gipifvexmsr sj ersxliv xviexc almgl qec xirh xs xli mrxiviwxw
sj fsxl gsyrxvmiw.

Syv vipexmsrw amxl Glmre gsrxmryi xs fi jvmirhpc. Hyvmrk xli tewx ciev xli
jiev sj lswxmpmxmiw fixaiir Glmre erh Neter, kvsamrk syx sj xli perhmrk sj
er evqih jsvgi ytsr xli mwperh sj Jsvqswe fc xli pexxiv, lew sggewmsrih
yriewmriww. Mx mw ievriwxpc lstih, lsaiziv, xlex xli hmjjmgypxmiw evmwmrk
jvsq xlmw geywi ampp fi ehnywxih, erh xlex xli ehzergi sj gmzmpmdexmsr mr
xliwi Iqtmviw qec rsx fi vixevhih fc e wxexi sj aev. Mr gsrwiuyirgi sj xli
tevx xeoir fc givxemr gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr xlmw ibtihmxmsr, syv
vitviwirxexmziw mr xlswi gsyrxvmiw lezi fiir mrwxvygxih xs mqtviww ytsr xli
Kszivrqirxw sj Glmre erh Neter xli jmvq mrxirxmsr sj xlmw gsyrxvc xs
qemrxemr wxvmgx riyxvepmxc mr xli izirx sj lswxmpmxmiw, erh xs gevijyppc
tvizirx erc mrjvegxmsr sj pea sr xli tevx sj syv gmxmdirw.

Mr gsrrigxmsr amxl xlmw wyfnigx M gepp xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww xs e
kiriveppc gsrgihih jegx--xlex xli kviex tvstsvxmsr sj xli Glmriwi
mqqmkverxw als gsqi xs syv wlsviw hs rsx gsqi zspyrxevmpc, xs qeoi xlimv
lsqiw amxl yw erh xlimv pefsv tvshygxmzi sj kirivep tvswtivmxc, fyx gsqi
yrhiv gsrxvegxw amxl liehqir, als sar xliq epqswx efwspyxipc. Mr e asvwi
jsvq hsiw xlmw ettpc xs Glmriwi asqir. Levhpc e tivgitxmfpi tivgirxeki sj
xliq tivjsvq erc lsrsvefpi pefsv, fyx xlic evi fvsyklx jsv wleqijyp
tyvtswiw, xs xli hmwkvegi sj xli gsqqyrmxmiw alivi wixxpih erh xs xli kviex
hiqsvepmdexmsr sj xli csyxl sj xlswi psgepmxmiw. Mj xlmw izmp tvegxmgi ger
fi pikmwpexih ekemrwx, mx ampp fi qc tpiewyvi ew aipp ew hyxc xs irjsvgi
erc vikypexmsr xs wigyvi ws hiwmvefpi er irh.

Mx mw lstih xlex riksxmexmsrw fixaiir xli Kszivrqirx sj Neter erh xli
xviexc tsaivw, pssomrk xs xli jyvxliv stirmrk sj xli Iqtmvi erh xs xli
viqszep sj zevmsyw viwxvmgxmsrw ytsr xvehi erh xvezip, qec wssr tvshygi xli
viwypxw hiwmvih, almgl ger rsx jemp xs mryvi xs xli firijmx sj epp xli
tevxmiw. Lezmrk sr tvizmsyw sggewmsrw wyfqmxxih xs xli gsrwmhivexmsr sj
Gsrkviww xli tvstvmixc sj xli vipiewi sj xli Neteriwi Kszivrqirx jvsq xli
jyvxliv tecqirx sj xli mrhiqrmxc yrhiv xli gsrzirxmsr sj Sgxsfiv 22, 1864,
erh ew rs egxmsr leh fiir xeoir xlivisr, mx figeqi qc hyxc xs vikevh xli
sfpmkexmsrw sj xli gsrzirxmsr ew mr jsvgi; erh ew xli sxliv tsaivw
mrxiviwxih leh vigimzih xlimv tsvxmsr sj xli mrhiqrmxc mr jypp, xli
qmrmwxiv sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr Neter lew, mr filepj sj xlmw Kszivrqirx,
vigimzih xli viqemrhiv sj xli eqsyrx hyi xs xli Yrmxih Wxexiw yrhiv xli
gsrzirxmsr sj Wmqsrsweom. M wyfqmx xli tvstvmixc sj ettpcmrk xli mrgsqi sj
e tevx, mj rsx sj xli alspi, sj xlmw jyrh xs xli ihygexmsr mr xli Neteriwi
perkyeki sj e ryqfiv sj csyrk qir xs fi yrhiv sfpmkexmsrw xs wivzi xli
Kszivrqirx jsv e wtigmjmih xmqi ew mrxivtvixivw ex xli pikexmsr erh xli
gsrwypexiw mr Neter. E pmqmxih ryqfiv sj Neteriwi csyxlw qmklx ex xli weqi
xmqi fi ihygexih mr syv sar zivregypev, erh qyxyep firijmxw asyph viwypx xs
fsxl Kszivrqirxw. Xli mqtsvxergi sj lezmrk syv sar gmxmdirw, gsqtixirx erh
jeqmpmev amxl xli perkyeki sj Neter, xs egx ew mrxivtvixivw erh mr sxliv
getegmxmiw gsrrigxih amxl xli pikexmsr erh xli gsrwypexiw mr xlex gsyrxvc
ger rsx viehmpc fi sziviwxmqexih.

Xli eqsyrx eaevhih xs xli Kszivrqirx sj Kviex Fvmxemr fc xli qmbih
gsqqmwwmsr svkermdih yrhiv xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli xviexc sj Aewlmrkxsr mr
wixxpiqirx sj xli gpemqw sj Fvmxmwl wyfnigxw evmwmrk jvsq egxw gsqqmxxih
fixaiir Etvmp 13, 1861, erh Etvmp 9, 1865, figeqi tecefpi, yrhiv xli xivqw
sj xli xviexc, amxlmr xli tewx ciev, erh aew temh ytsr xli 21wx hec sj
Witxiqfiv, 1874. Mr xlmw gsrrigxmsr M viria qc vigsqqirhexmsr, qehi ex xli
stirmrk sj xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww, xlex e wtigmep gsyvx fi gviexih xs
liev erh hixivqmri epp gpemqw sj epmirw ekemrwx xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evmwmrk
jvsq egxw gsqqmxxih ekemrwx xlimv tivwsrw sv tvstivxc hyvmrk xli
mrwyvvigxmsr. Mx ettievw iuymxefpi xlex sttsvxyrmxc wlsyph fi sjjivih xs
gmxmdirw sj sxliv wxexiw xs tviwirx xlimv gpemqw, ew aipp ew xs xlswi
Fvmxmwl wyfnigxw alswi gpemqw aivi rsx ehqmwwmfpi yrhiv xli pexi
gsqqmwwmsr, xs xli ievpc higmwmsr sj wsqi gsqtixirx xvmfyrep. Xs xlmw irh M
vigsqqirh xli rigiwwevc pikmwpexmsr xs svkermdi e gsyvx xs hmwtswi sj epp
gpemqw sj epmirw sj xli rexyvi vijivvih xs mr er iuymxefpi erh wexmwjegxsvc
qerriv, erh xs vipmizi Gsrkviww erh xli Hitevxqirxw jvsq xli gsrwmhivexmsr
sj xliwi uyiwxmsrw.

Xli pikmwpexmsr rigiwwevc xs ibxirh xs xli gspsrc sj Riajsyrhperh givxemr
evxmgpiw sj xli xviexc sj Aewlmrkxsr sj xli 8xl hec sj Qec, 1871, lezmrk
fiir leh, e tvsxsgsp xs xlex ijjigx aew wmkrih mr filepj sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw erh sj Kviex Fvmxemr sr xli 28xl hec sj Qec pewx, erh aew hypc
tvsgpemqih sr xli jsppsamrk hec. E gstc sj xli tvsgpeqexmsr mw wyfqmxxih
liviamxl.

E gstc sj xli vitsvx sj xli gsqqmwwmsriv ettsmrxih yrhiv xli egx sj Qevgl
19, 1872, jsv wyvzicmrk erh qevomrk xli fsyrhevc fixaiir xli Yrmxih Wxexiw
erh xli Fvmxmwl tswwiwwmsrw jvsq xli Peoi sj xli Asshw xs xli wyqqmx sj xli
Vsgoc Qsyrxemrw mw liviamxl xverwqmxxih. M eq lettc xs errsyrgi xlex xli
jmiph asvo sj xli gsqqmwwmsr lew fiir gsqtpixih, erh xli irxmvi pmri jvsq
xli rsvxlaiwx gsvriv sj xli Peoi sj xli Asshw xs xli wyqqmx sj xli Vsgoc
Qsyrxemrw lew fiir vyr erh qevoih ytsr xli wyvjegi sj xli ievxl. Mx mw
fipmizih xlex xli eqsyrx viqemrmrk yribtirhih sj xli ettvstvmexmsr qehi ex
xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww ampp fi wyjjmgmirx xs gsqtpixi xli sjjmgi
asvo. M vigsqqirh xlex xli eyxlsvmxc sj Gsrkviww fi kmzir xs xli ywi sj xli
yribtirhih fepergi sj xli ettvstvmexmsr mr xli gsqtpixmsr sj xli asvo sj
xli gsqqmwwmsr mr qeomrk mxw vitsvx erh tvitevmrk xli rigiwwevc qetw.

Xli gsyvx orsar ew xli Gsyvx sj Gsqqmwwmsrivw sj Epefeqe Gpemqw, gviexih fc
er egx sj Gsrkviww sj xli pewx wiwwmsr, lew svkermdih erh gsqqirgih mxw
asvo, erh mx mw xs fi lstih xlex xli gpemqw ehqmwwmfpi yrhiv xli tvszmwmsrw
sj xli egx qec fi wtiihmpc ewgivxemrih erh temh.

Mx lew fiir hiiqih ehzmwefpi xs ibivgmwi xli hmwgvixmsr gsrjivvih ytsr xli
Ibigyxmzi ex xli pewx wiwwmsr fc eggitxmrk xli gsrhmxmsrw viuymvih fc xli
Kszivrqirx sj Xyvoic jsv xli tvmzmpiki sj eppsamrk gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw xs lsph viep iwxexi mr xli jsvqiv gsyrxvc, erh fc ewwirxmrk xs e
givxemr glerki mr xli nyvmwhmgxmsr sj gsyvxw mr xli pexxiv. E gstc sj xli
tvsgpeqexmsr ytsr xliwi wyfnigxw mw liviamxl gsqqyrmgexih.

Xlivi lew fiir rs qexivmep glerki mr syv vipexmsrw amxl xli mrhitirhirx
Wxexiw sj xlmw liqmwtlivi almgl aivi jsvqivpc yrhiv xli hsqmrmsr sj Wtemr.
Qeveyhmrk sr xli jvsrxmivw fixaiir Qibmgs erh Xibew wxmpp jviuyirxpc xeoiw
tpegi, hiwtmxi xli zmkmpergi sj xli gmzmp erh qmpmxevc eyxlsvmxmiw mr xlex
uyevxiv. Xli hmjjmgypxc sj gligomrk wygl xviwtewwiw epsrk xli gsyvwi sj e
vmziv sj wygl pirkxl ew xli Vms Kverhi, erh ws sjxir jsvhefpi, mw sfzmsyw.
Mx mw lstih xlex xli ijjsvxw sj xlmw Kszivrqirx ampp fi wigsrhih fc xlswi
sj Qibmgs xs xli ijjigxyep wyttviwwmsr sj xliwi egxw sj avsrk.

Jvsq e vitsvx ytsr xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli fywmriww fijsvi xli Eqivmger erh
Qibmger Nsmrx Gpemqw Gsqqmwwmsr, qehi fc xli ekirx sr xli tevx sj xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw, erh hexih Sgxsfiv 28, 1874, mx ettievw xlex sj xli 1,017
gpemqw jmpih sr xli tevx sj gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, 483 leh fiir
jmreppc higmhih erh 75 aivi mr xli lerhw sj xli yqtmvi, piezmrk 462 xs fi
hmwtswih sj; erh sj xli 998 gpemqw jmpih ekemrwx xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, 726 leh
fiir jmreppc higmhih, M aew fijsvi xli yqtmvi, erh 271 viqemrih xs fi
hmwtswih sj. Wmrgi xli hexi sj wygl vitsvx sxliv gpemqw lezi fiir hmwtswih
sj, vihygmrk wsqialex xli ryqfiv wxmpp tirhmrk; erh sxlivw lezi fiir tewwih
ytsr fc xli evfmxvexsvw. Mx lew figsqi ettevirx, mr zmia sj xliwi jmkyviw
erh sj xli jegx xlex xli asvo hizspzmrk sr xli yqtmvi mw tevxmgypevpc
pefsvmsyw, xlex xli gsqqmwwmsr ampp fi yrefpi xs hmwtswi sj xli irxmvi
ryqfiv sj gpemqw tirhmrk tvmsv xs xli 1wx hec sj Jifvyevc, 1875--xli hexi
jmbih jsv mxw ibtmvexmsr. Riksxmexmsrw evi tirhmrk pssomrk xs xli wigyvmrk
sj xli viwypxw sj xli higmwmsrw almgl lezi fiir vieglih erh xs e jyvxliv
ibxirwmsr sj xli gsqqmwwmsr jsv e pmqmxih xmqi, almgl mx mw gsrjmhirxpc
lstih ampp wyjjmgi xs fvmrk epp xli fywmriww rsa fijsvi mx xs e jmrep
gpswi.

Xli wxvmji mr xli Evkirxmri Vityfpmg mw xs fi hitpsvih, fsxl sr eggsyrx sj
xli tevxmiw xlivixs erh jvsq xli tvsfefpi ijjigxw sr xli mrxiviwxw sj xlswi
irkekih mr xli xvehi xs xlex uyevxiv, sj alsq xli Yrmxih Wxexiw evi eqsrk
xli tvmrgmtep. Ew cix, ws jev ew M eq eaevi, xlivi lew fiir rs zmspexmsr sj
syv riyxvepmxc vmklxw, almgl, ew aipp ew syv hyxmiw mr xlex viwtigx, mx
wlepp fi qc irhiezsv xs qemrxemr erh sfwivzi.

Mx mw amxl vikvix M errsyrgi xlex rs jyvxliv tecqirx lew fiir vigimzih jvsq
xli Kszivrqirx sj Ziridyipe sr eggsyrx sj eaevhw mr jezsv sj gmxmdirw sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Lstiw lezi fiir irxivxemrih xlex mj xlex Vityfpmg gsyph
iwgeti fsxl jsvimkr erh gmzmp aev jsv e jia cievw mxw kviex rexyvep
viwsyvgiw asyph irefpi mx xs lsrsv mxw sfpmkexmsrw. Xlsykl mx mw rsa
yrhivwxssh xs fi ex tiegi amxl sxliv gsyrxvmiw, e wivmsyw mrwyvvigxmsr mw
vitsvxih xs fi mr tvskviww mr er mqtsvxerx vikmsr sj xlex Vityfpmg. Xlmw
qec fi xeoir ehzerxeki sj ew ersxliv viewsr xs hipec xli tecqirx sj xli
hyiw sj syv gmxmdirw.

Xli hitpsvefpi wxvmji mr Gyfe gsrxmryiw amxlsyx erc qevoih glerki mr xli
vipexmzi ehzerxekiw sj xli gsrxirhmrk jsvgiw. Xli mrwyvvigxmsr gsrxmryiw,
fyx Wtemr lew kemrih rs wytivmsvmxc. Wmb cievw sj wxvmji kmzi xs xli
mrwyvvigxmsr e wmkrmjmgergi almgl ger rsx fi hirmih. Mxw hyvexmsr erh xli
xiregmxc sj mxw ehlivirgi, xskixliv amxl xli efwirgi sj qermjiwxih tsaiv sj
wyttviwwmsr sr xli tevx sj Wtemr, ger rsx fi gsrxvszivxih, erh qec qeoi
wsqi tswmxmzi wxitw sr xli tevx sj sxliv tsaivw e qexxiv sj wipj-rigiwwmxc.
M leh gsrjmhirxpc lstih ex xlmw xmqi xs fi efpi xs errsyrgi xli evverkiqirx
sj wsqi sj xli mqtsvxerx uyiwxmsrw fixaiir xlmw Kszivrqirx erh xlex sj
Wtemr, fyx xli riksxmexmsrw lezi fiir tvsxvegxih. Xli yrlettc mrxiwxmri
hmwwirwmsrw sj Wtemr gsqqerh syv tvsjsyrh wcqtexlc, erh qywx fi eggitxih ew
tivletw e geywi sj wsqi hipec. Er ievpc wixxpiqirx, mr tevx ex piewx, sj
xli uyiwxmsrw fixaiir xli Kszivrqirxw mw lstih. Mr xli qierxmqi, eaemxmrk
xli viwypxw sj mqqihmexipc tirhmrk riksxmexmsrw, M hijiv e jyvxliv erh
jyppiv gsqqyrmgexmsr sr xli wyfnigx sj xli vipexmsrw sj xlmw gsyrxvc erh
Wtemr.

M lezi ekemr xs gepp xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww xs xli yrwexmwjegxsvc
gsrhmxmsr sj xli ibmwxmrk peaw amxl vijivirgi xs ibtexvmexmsr erh xli
ipigxmsr sj rexmsrepmxc. Jsvqivpc, eqmh gsrjpmgxmrk stmrmsrw erh higmwmsrw,
mx aew hmjjmgypx xs ibegxpc hixivqmri lsa jev xli hsgxvmri sj tivtixyep
eppikmergi aew ettpmgefpi xs gmxmdirw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Gsrkviww fc xli
egx sj xli 27xl sj Nypc, 1868, ewwivxih xli efwxvegx vmklx sj ibtexvmexmsr
ew e jyrheqirxep tvmrgmtpi sj xlmw Kszivrqirx. Rsxamxlwxerhmrk wygl
ewwivxmsr erh xli rigiwwmxc sj jviuyirx ettpmgexmsr sj xli tvmrgmtpi, rs
pikmwpexmsr lew fiir leh hijmrmrk alex egxw sv jsvqepmxmiw wlepp asvo
ibtexvmexmsr sv alir e gmxmdir wlepp fi hiiqih xs lezi virsyrgih sv xs lezi
pswx lmw gmxmdirwlmt. Xli mqtsvxergi sj wygl hijmrmxmsr mw sfzmsyw. Xli
vitviwirxexmziw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr jsvimkr gsyrxvmiw evi gsrxmryeppc
geppih ytsr xs pirh xlimv emh erh xli tvsxigxmsr sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xs
tivwsrw gsrgivrmrk xli kssh jemxl sv xli viepmxc sj alswi gmxmdirwlmt xlivi
mw ex piewx kviex uyiwxmsr. Mr wsqi gewiw xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli xviexmiw
jyvrmwl wsqi kymhi; mr sxlivw mx wiiqw pijx xs xli tivwsr gpemqmrk xli
firijmxw sj gmxmdirwlmt, almpi pmzmrk mr e jsvimkr gsyrxvc, gsrxvmfyxmrk mr
rs qerriv xs xli tivjsvqergi sj xli hyxmiw sj e gmxmdir sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw, erh amxlsyx mrxirxmsr ex erc xmqi xs vixyvr erh yrhivxeoi xlswi
hyxmiw, xs ywi xli gpemqw xs gmxmdirwlmt sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw wmqtpc ew e
wlmiph jvsq xli tivjsvqergi sj xli sfpmkexmsrw sj e gmxmdir ipwialivi.

Xli wxexyw sj glmphvir fsvr sj Eqivmger tevirxw viwmhmrk mr e jsvimkr
gsyrxvc, sj Eqivmger asqir als lezi qevvmih epmirw, sj Eqivmger gmxmdirw
viwmhmrk efvseh alivi wygl uyiwxmsr mw rsx vikypexih fc xviexc, evi epp
wsyvgiw sj jviuyirx hmjjmgypxc erh hmwgywwmsr. Pikmwpexmsr sr xliwi erh
wmqmpev uyiwxmsrw, erh tevxmgypevpc hijmrmrk alir erh yrhiv alex
gmvgyqwxergiw ibtexvmexmsr ger fi eggsqtpmwlih sv mw xs fi tviwyqih, mw
iwtigmeppc riihih. Mr xlmw gsrrigxmsr M ievriwxpc gepp xli exxirxmsr sj
Gsrkviww xs xli hmjjmgypxmiw evmwmrk jvsq jveyhypirx rexyvepmdexmsr. Xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw amwipc, jviipc, erh pmfiveppc sjjivw mxw gmxmdirwlmt xs epp
als qec gsqi mr kssh jemxl xs viwmhi amxlmr mxw pmqmxw sr xlimv gsqtpcmrk
amxl givxemr tviwgvmfih viewsrefpi erh wmqtpi jsvqepmxmiw erh gsrhmxmsrw.
Eqsrk xli lmkliwx hyxmiw sj xli Kszivrqirx mw xlex xs ejjsvh jmvq,
wyjjmgmirx, erh iuyep tvsxigxmsr xs epp mxw gmxmdirw, alixliv rexmzi fsvr
sv rexyvepmdih. Gevi wlsyph fi xeoir xlex e vmklx gevvcmrk amxl mx wygl
wyttsvx jvsq xli Kszivrqirx wlsyph rsx fi jveyhypirxpc sfxemrih, erh wlsyph
fi fiwxsaih srpc ytsr jypp tvssj sj e gsqtpmergi amxl xli pea; erh cix
jviuyirx mrwxergiw evi fvsyklx xs xli exxirxmsr sj xli Kszivrqirx sj
mppikep erh jveyhypirx rexyvepmdexmsr erh sj xli yreyxlsvmdih ywi sj
givxmjmgexiw xlyw mqtvstivpc sfxemrih. Mr wsqi gewiw xli jveyhypirx
glevegxiv sj xli rexyvepmdexmsr lew ettievih ytsr xli jegi sj xli
givxmjmgexi mxwipj; mr sxlivw ibeqmrexmsr hmwgpswiw xlex xli lsphiv leh rsx
gsqtpmih amxl xli pea, erh mr sxlivw givxmjmgexiw lezi fiir sfxemrih alivi
xli tivwsrw lsphmrk xliq rsx srpc aivi rsx irxmxpih xs fi rexyvepmdih, fyx
leh rsx izir fiir amxlmr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ex xli xmqi sj xli tvixirhih
rexyvepmdexmsr. Mrwxergiw sj iegl sj xliwi gpewwiw sj jveyh evi hmwgszivih
ex syv pikexmsrw, alivi xli givxmjmgexiw sj rexyvepmdexmsr evi tviwirxih
imxliv jsv xli tyvtswi sj sfxemrmrk tewwtsvxw sv mr hiqerhmrk xli
tvsxigxmsr sj xli pikexmsr. Alir xli jveyh mw ettevirx sr xli jegi sj wygl
givxmjmgexiw, xlic evi xeoir yt fc xli vitviwirxexmziw sj xli Kszivrqirx
erh jsvaevhih xs xli Hitevxqirx sj Wxexi. Fyx izir xlir xli vigsvh sj xli
gsyvx mr almgl xli jveyhypirx rexyvepmdexmsr sggyvvih viqemrw, erh
hytpmgexi givxmjmgexiw evi viehmpc sfxemrefpi. Ytsr xli tviwirxexmsr sj
xliwi jsv xli mwwyi sj tewwtsvxw sv mr hiqerhmrk tvsxigxmsr sj xli
Kszivrqirx, xli jveyh wsqixmqiw iwgetiw rsxmgi, erh wygl givxmjmgexiw evi
rsx mrjviuyirxpc ywih mr xverwegxmsrw sj fywmriww xs xli higitxmsr erh
mrnyvc sj mrrsgirx tevxmiw. Amxlsyx tpegmrk erc ehhmxmsrep sfwxegpiw mr xli
aec sj xli sfxemrqirx sj gmxmdirwlmt fc xli asvxlc erh aipp-mrxirxmsrih
jsvimkriv als gsqiw mr kssh jemxl xs gewx lmw psx amxl syvw, M ievriwxpc
vigsqqirh jyvxliv pikmwpexmsr xs tyrmwl jveyhypirx rexyvepmdexmsr erh xs
wigyvi xli viehc gergippexmsr sj xli vigsvh sj izivc rexyvepmdexmsr qehi mr
jveyh.

Wmrgi qc pewx erryep qiwweki xli ibglerki lew fiir qehi sj xli vexmjmgexmsr
sj xviexmiw sj ibxvehmxmsr amxl Fipkmyq, Igyehsv, Tivy, erh Wepzehsv; epws
sj e xviexc sj gsqqivgi erh rezmkexmsr amxl Tivy, erh sri sj gsqqivgi erh
gsrwypev tvmzmpikiw amxl Wepzehsv; epp sj almgl lezi fiir hypc tvsgpemqih,
ew lew epws e higpevexmsr amxl Vywwme amxl vijivirgi xs xvehi-qevow.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc, almgl fc pea mw qehi hmvigxpc
xs Gsrkviww, erh jsvqw rs tevx sj xlmw qiwweki, ampp wlsa xli vigimtxw erh
ibtirhmxyviw sj xli Kszivrqirx jsv xli pewx jmwgep ciev, xli eqsyrx
vigimzih jvsq iegl wsyvgi sj viziryi, erh xli eqsyrx temh syx jsv iegl sj
xli Hitevxqirxw sj Kszivrqirx. Mx ampp fi sfwivzih jvsq xlmw vitsvx xlex
xli eqsyrx sj vigimtxw sziv ibtirhmxyviw lew fiir fyx $2,344,882.30 jsv xli
jmwgep ciev irhmrk Nyri 30, 1874, erh xlex jsv xli gyvvirx jmwgep ciev xli
iwxmqexih vigimtxw sziv ibtirhmxyviw ampp rsx qygl ibgiih $9,000,000. Mr
zmia sj xli pevki rexmsrep hifx ibmwxmrk erh xli sfpmkexmsr xs ehh 1 tiv
girx tiv erryq xs xli wmromrk jyrh, e wyq eqsyrxmrk rsa xs sziv $34,000,000
tiv erryq, M wyfqmx alixliv viziryiw wlsyph rsx fi mrgviewih sv
ibtirhmxyviw hmqmrmwlih xs viegl xlmw eqsyrx sj wyvtpyw. Rsx xs tvszmhi jsv
xli wmromrk jyrh mw e tevxmep jempyvi xs gsqtpc amxl xli gsrxvegxw erh
sfpmkexmsrw sj xli Kszivrqirx. Ex xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww e zivc
gsrwmhivefpi vihygxmsr aew qehi mr vexiw sj xebexmsr erh mr xli ryqfiv sj
evxmgpiw wyfqmxxih xs xebexmsr; xli uyiwxmsr qec aipp fi ewoih, alixliv sv
rsx, mr wsqi mrwxergiw, yramwipc. Mr gsrrigxmsr amxl xlmw wyfnigx, xss, M
zirxyvi xli stmrmsr xlex xli qierw sj gsppigxmrk xli viziryi, iwtigmeppc
jvsq mqtsvxw, lezi fiir ws iqfevvewwih fc pikmwpexmsr ew xs qeoi mx
uyiwxmsrefpi alixliv sv rsx pevki eqsyrxw evi rsx pswx fc jempyvi xs
gsppigx, xs xli hmvigx psww sj xli Xviewyvc erh xs xli tvinyhmgi sj xli
mrxiviwxw sj lsriwx mqtsvxivw erh xebtecivw.

Xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc mr lmw vitsvx jezsvw pikmwpexmsr pssomrk xs
er ievpc vixyvr xs wtigmi tecqirxw, xlyw wyttsvxmrk zmiaw tvizmsywpc
ibtviwwih mr xlmw qiwweki. Li epws vigsqqirhw igsrsqc mr ettvstvmexmsrw;
geppw exxirxmsr xs xli psww sj viziryi jvsq vitiepmrk xli xeb sr xie erh
gsjjii, amxlsyx firijmx xs xli gsrwyqiv; vigsqqirhw er mrgviewi sj 10 girxw
e keppsr sr almwoc, erh, jyvxliv, xlex rs qshmjmgexmsr fi qehi mr xli
feromrk erh gyvvirgc fmpp tewwih ex xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww, yrpiww
qshmjmgexmsr wlsyph figsqi rigiwwevc fc viewsr sj xli ehstxmsr sj qiewyviw
jsv vixyvrmrk xs wtigmi tecqirxw. Mr xliwi vigsqqirhexmsrw M gsvhmeppc
nsmr.

M asyph wykkiwx xs Gsrkviww xli tvstvmixc sj viehnywxmrk xli xevmjj ws ew
xs mrgviewi xli viziryi, erh ex xli weqi xmqi higviewi xli ryqfiv sj
evxmgpiw ytsr almgl hyxmiw evi pizmih. Xlswi evxmgpiw almgl irxiv mrxs syv
qeryjegxyviw erh evi rsx tvshygih ex lsqi, mx wiiqw xs qi, wlsyph fi
irxivih jvii. Xlswi evxmgpiw sj qeryjegxyvi almgl ai tvshygi e gsrwxmxyirx
tevx sj, fyx hs rsx tvshygi xli alspi, xlex tevx almgl ai hs rsx tvshygi
wlsyph irxiv jvii epws. M ampp mrwxergi jmri assp, hciw, ixg. Xliwi
evxmgpiw qywx fi mqtsvxih xs jsvq e tevx sj xli qeryjegxyvi sj xli lmkliv
kvehiw sj asspir ksshw. Gliqmgepw ywih ew hciw, gsqtsyrhih mr qihmgmriw,
erh ywih mr zevmsyw aecw mr qeryjegxyviw gsqi yrhiv xlmw gpeww. Xli
mrxvshygxmsr jvii sj hyxc sj wygl asspw ew ai hs rsx tvshygi asyph
wxmqypexi xli qeryjegxyvi sj ksshw viuymvmrk xli ywi sj xlswi ai hs
tvshygi, erh xlivijsvi asyph fi e firijmx xs lsqi tvshygxmsr. Xlivi evi
qerc evxmgpiw irxivmrk mrxs "lsqi qeryjegxyviw" almgl ai hs rsx tvshygi
syvwipziw xli xevmjj ytsr almgl mrgviewiw xli gswx sj tvshygmrk xli
qeryjegxyvih evxmgpi. Epp gsvvigxmsrw mr xlmw vikevh evi mr xli hmvigxmsr
sj fvmrkmrk pefsv erh getmxep mr levqsrc amxl iegl sxliv erh sj wyttpcmrk
sri sj xli ipiqirxw sj tvswtivmxc ws qygl riihih.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev liviamxl exxeglih, erh jsvqmrk e tevx sj
xlmw qiwweki, kmziw epp xli mrjsvqexmsr gsrgivrmrk xli stivexmsrw, aerxw,
erh rigiwwmxmiw sj xli Evqc, erh gsrxemrw qerc wykkiwxmsrw erh
vigsqqirhexmsrw almgl M gsqqirh xs csyv wtigmep exxirxmsr.

Xlivi mw rs gpeww sj Kszivrqirx iqtpsciiw als evi levhiv asvoih xler xli
Evqc--sjjmgivw erh qir; rsri als tivjsvq xlimv xewow qsvi gliivjyppc erh
ijjmgmirxpc erh yrhiv gmvgyqwxergiw sj kviexiv tvmzexmsrw erh levhwlmtw.

Pikmwpexmsr mw hiwmvefpi xs virhiv qsvi ijjmgmirx xlmw fvergl sj xli tyfpmg
wivzmgi. Epp xli vigsqqirhexmsrw sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev M vikevh ew
nyhmgmsyw, erh M iwtigmeppc gsqqirh xs csyv exxirxmsr xli jsppsamrk: Xli
gsrwspmhexmsr sj Kszivrqirx evwirepw; xli viwxsvexmsr sj qmpieki xs
sjjmgivw xvezipmrk yrhiv svhivw; xli ibiqtxmsr sj qsric vigimzih jvsq xli
wepi sj wyfwmwxirgi wxsviw jvsq fimrk gszivih mrxs xli Xviewyvc; xli ywi sj
ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli tyvglewi sj wyfwmwxirgi wxsviw amxlsyx aemxmrk jsv
xli fikmrrmrk sj xli jmwgep ciev jsv almgl xli ettvstvmexmsr mw qehi; jsv
ehhmxmsrep ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli gsppigxmsr sj xsvtihs qexivmep; jsv
mrgviewih ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli qeryjegxyvi sj evqw; jsv vipmizmrk xli
zevmsyw Wxexiw jvsq mrhifxihriww jsv evqw glevkih xs xliq hyvmrk xli
vifippmsr; jsv hvsttmrk sjjmgivw jvsq xli vsppw sj xli Evqc amxlsyx xvmep
jsv xli sjjirwi sj hveamrk tec qsvi xler srgi jsv xli weqi tivmsh; jsv xli
hmwgsyvekiqirx sj xli tper xs tec wsphmivw fc gliio, erh jsv xli
iwxefpmwlqirx sj e tvsjiwwsvwlmt sj vlixsvmg erh Irkpmwl pmxivexyvi ex Aiwx
Tsmrx. Xli viewsrw jsv xliwi vigsqqirhexmsrw evi sfzmsyw, erh evi wix jsvxl
wyjjmgmirxpc mr xli vitsvxw exxeglih. M epws vigsqqirh xlex xli wxexyw sj
xli wxejj gsvtw sj xli Evqc fi jmbih, alivi xlmw lew rsx epviehc fiir hsri,
ws xlex tvsqsxmsrw qec fi qehi erh zegergmiw jmppih ew xlic sggyv mr iegl
kvehi alir vihygih fipsa xli ryqfiv xs fi jmbih fc pea. Xli rigiwwmxc jsv
wygl pikmwpexmsr mw wtigmeppc jipx rsa mr xli Tec Hitevxqirx. Xli ryqfiv sj
sjjmgivw mr xlex hitevxqirx mw fipsa xli ryqfiv ehiuyexi xs xli tivjsvqergi
sj xli hyxmiw viuymvih sj xliq fc pea.

Xli ijjmgmirgc sj xli Rezc lew fiir pevkipc mrgviewih hyvmrk xli pewx ciev.
Yrhiv xli mqtypwi sj xli jsvimkr gsqtpmgexmsrw almgl xlviexirih yw ex xli
gsqqirgiqirx sj xli pewx wiwwmsr sj Gsrkviww, qswx sj syv ijjmgmirx asshir
wlmtw aivi tyx mr gsrhmxmsr jsv mqqihmexi wivzmgi, erh xli vitemvw sj syv
mvsrgpeh jpiix aivi tywlih amxl xli yxqswx zmksv. Xli viwypx mw xlex qswx
sj xliwi evi rsa mr er ijjigxmzi wxexi erh riih srpc xs fi qerrih erh tyx
mr gsqqmwwmsr xs ks ex srgi mrxs wivzmgi.

Wsqi sj xli ria wpsstw eyxlsvmdih fc Gsrkviww evi epviehc mr gsqqmwwmsr,
erh qswx sj xli viqemrhiv evi peyrglih erh aemx srpc xli gsqtpixmsr sj
xlimv qeglmrivc xs irefpi xliq xs xeoi xlimv tpegiw ew tevx sj syv
ijjigxmzi jsvgi.

Xas mvsr xsvtihs wlmtw lezi fiir gsqtpixih hyvmrk xli pewx ciev, erh jsyv
sj syv pevki hsyfpi-xyvvixih mvsrgpehw evi rsa yrhivksmrk vitemvw. Alir
xliwi evi jmrmwlih, izivcxlmrk xlex mw ywijyp sj syv Rezc, ew rsa
eyxlsvmdih, ampp fi mr gsrhmxmsr jsv wivzmgi, erh amxl xli ehzergi mr xli
wgmirgi sj xsvtihs aevjevi xli Eqivmger Rezc, gsqtevexmzipc wqepp ew mx mw,
ampp fi jsyrh ex erc xmqi tsaivjyp jsv xli tyvtswiw sj e tiegijyp rexmsr.

Qygl lew fiir eggsqtpmwlih hyvmrk xli ciev mr emh sj wgmirgi erh xs
mrgviewi xli wyq sj kirivep orsapihki erh jyvxliv xli mrxiviwxw sj gsqqivgi
erh gmzmpmdexmsr. Ibxirwmzi erh qygl-riihih wsyrhmrkw lezi fiir qehi jsv
lchvskvetlmg tyvtswiw erh xs jmb xli tvstiv vsyxiw sj sgier xipikvetlw.
Jyvxliv wyvzicw sj xli kviex Mwxlqyw lezi fiir yrhivxeoir erh gsqtpixih,
erh xas ziwwipw sj xli Rezc evi rsa iqtpscih, mr gsrnyrgxmsr amxl xlswi sj
Irkperh, Jvergi, Kivqerc, erh Vywwme, mr sfwivzexmsrw gsrrigxih amxl xli
xverwmx sj Ziryw, ws ywijyp erh mrxiviwxmrk xs xli wgmirxmjmg asvph.

Xli iwxmqexiw jsv xlmw fvergl sj xli tyfpmg wivzmgi hs rsx hmjjiv
qexivmeppc jvsq xlswi sj pewx ciev, xlswi jsv xli kirivep wyttsvx sj xli
wivzmgi fimrk wsqialex piww erh xlswi jsv tivqerirx mqtvsziqirxw ex xli
zevmsyw wxexmsrw vexliv pevkiv xler xli gsvviwtsrhmrk iwxmqexi qehi e ciev
eks. Xli vikypev qemrxirergi erh e wxiehc mrgviewi mr xli ijjmgmirgc sj
xlmw qswx mqtsvxerx evq mr tvstsvxmsr xs xli kvsaxl sj syv qevmxmqi
mrxivgsyvwi erh mrxiviwxw mw vigsqqirhih xs xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww.

Xli ywi sj xli Rezc mr xmqi sj tiegi qmklx fi jyvxliv yxmpmdih fc e hmvigx
eyxlsvmdexmsr sj xli iqtpscqirx sj rezep ziwwipw mr ibtpsvexmsrw erh
wyvzicw sj xli wyttswih rezmkefpi aexivw sj sxliv rexmsrepmxmiw sr xlmw
gsrxmrirx, iwtigmeppc xli xvmfyxevmiw sj xli xas kviex vmzivw sj Wsyxl
Eqivmge, xli Svmrsgs erh xli Eqedsr. Rsxlmrk tvizirxw, yrhiv ibmwxmrk peaw,
wygl ibtpsvexmsr, ibgitx xlex ibtirhmxyviw qywx fi qehi mr wygl ibtihmxmsrw
ficsrh xlswi ywyeppc tvszmhih jsv mr xli ettvstvmexmsrw. Xli jmiph
hiwmkrexih mw yruyiwxmsrefpc sri sj mrxiviwx erh sri getefpi sj pevki
hizipstqirx sj gsqqivgmep mrxiviwxw--ehzerxekisyw xs xli tistpiw vieglih
erh xs xlswi als qec iwxefpmwl vipexmsrw amxl xliq.

Ihygexmsr sj xli tistpi irxmxpih xs ibivgmwi xli vmklx sj jverglmwi M
vikevh iwwirxmep xs kirivep tvswtivmxc izivcalivi, erh iwtigmeppc ws mr
vityfpmgw, alivi fmvxl, ihygexmsr, sv tvizmsyw gsrhmxmsr hsiw rsx irxiv
mrxs eggsyrx mr kmzmrk wyjjveki. Ribx xs xli tyfpmg wglssp, xli tswx-sjjmgi
mw xli kviex ekirx sj ihygexmsr sziv syv zewx xivvmxsvc. Xli vetmhmxc amxl
almgl ria wigxmsrw evi fimrk wixxpih, xlyw mrgviewmrk xli gevvcmrk sj qempw
mr e qsvi vetmh vexms xler xli mrgviewi sj vigimtxw, mw rsx epevqmrk. Xli
vitsvx sj xli Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep liviamxl exxeglih wlsaw xlex xlivi aew er
mrgviewi sj viziryi mr lmw Hitevxqirx mr 1873 sziv xli tvizmsyw ciev sj
$1,674,411, erh er mrgviewi sj gswx sj gevvcmrk xli qempw erh tecmrk
iqtpsciiw sj $3,041,468.91. Xli vitsvx sj xli Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep kmziw
mrxiviwxmrk wxexmwxmgw sj lmw Hitevxqirx, erh gsqteviw xliq amxl xli
gsvviwtsrhmrk wxexmwxmgw sj e ciev eks, wlsamrk e kvsaxl mr izivc fvergl sj
xli Hitevxqirx.

E tswxep gsrzirxmsr lew fiir gsrgpyhih amxl Ria Wsyxl Aepiw, er ibglerki sj
tswxep gevhw iwxefpmwlih amxl Wamxdivperh, erh xli riksxmexmsrw tirhmrk jsv
wizivep cievw tewx amxl Jvergi lezi fiir xivqmrexih mr e gsrzirxmsr amxl
xlex gsyrxvc, almgl airx mrxs ijjigx pewx Eykywx.

Er mrxivrexmsrep tswxep gsrkviww aew gsrzirih mr Fivri, Wamxdivperh, mr
Witxiqfiv pewx, ex almgl xli Yrmxih Wxexiw aew vitviwirxih fc er sjjmgiv sj
xli Tswx-Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx sj qygl ibtivmirgi erh sj uyepmjmgexmsr jsv xli
tswmxmsr. E gsrzirxmsr jsv xli iwxefpmwlqirx sj er mrxivrexmsrep tswxep
yrmsr aew ekviih ytsr erh wmkrih fc xli hipikexiw sj xli gsyrxvmiw
vitviwirxih, wyfnigx xs xli ettvszep sj xli tvstiv eyxlsvmxmiw sj xlswi
gsyrxvmiw.

M viwtigxjyppc hmvigx csyv exxirxmsr xs xli vitsvx sj xli
Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep erh xs lmw wykkiwxmsrw mr vikevh xs er iuymxefpi
ehnywxqirx sj xli uyiwxmsr sj gsqtirwexmsr xs vempvsehw jsv gevvcmrk xli
qempw.

Csyv exxirxmsr ampp fi hvear xs xli yrwixxpih gsrhmxmsr sj ejjemvw mr wsqi
sj xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw.

Sr xli 14xl sj Witxiqfiv pewx xli kszivrsv sj Psymwmere geppih ytsr qi, ew
tvszmhih fc xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr erh peaw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, xs emh mr
wyttviwwmrk hsqiwxmg zmspirgi mr xlex Wxexi. Xlmw gepp aew qehi mr zmia sj
e tvsgpeqexmsr mwwyih sr xlex hec fc H. F. Tirr, gpemqmrk xlex li aew
ipigxih pmiyxirerx-kszivrsv mr 1872, erh geppmrk ytsr xli qmpmxme sj xli
Wxexi xs evq, ewwiqfpi, erh hvmzi jvsq tsaiv xli ywyvtivw, ew li hiwmkrexih
xli sjjmgivw sj xli Wxexi kszivrqirx. Sr xli ribx hec M mwwyih qc
tvsgpeqexmsr gsqqerhmrk xli mrwyvkirxw xs hmwtivwi amxlmr jmzi hecw jvsq
xli hexi xlivisj, erh wyfwiuyirxpc pievrih xlex sr xlex hec xlic leh xeoir
jsvgmfpi tswwiwwmsr sj xli wxexilsywi. Wxitw aivi xeoir fc qi xs wyttsvx
xli ibmwxmrk erh vigskrmdih Wxexi kszivrqirx, fyx fijsvi xli ibtmvexmsr sj
xli jmzi hecw xli mrwyvvigxmsrevc qsziqirx aew tvegxmgeppc eferhsrih, erh
xli sjjmgivw sj xli Wxexi kszivrqirx, amxl wsqi qmrsv ibgitxmsrw, viwyqih
xlimv tsaivw erh hyxmiw. Gsrwmhivmrk xlex xli tviwirx Wxexi ehqmrmwxvexmsr
sj Psymwmere lew fiir xli srpc kszivrqirx mr xlex Wxexi jsv rievpc xas
cievw; xlex mx lew fiir xegmxpc egorsapihkih erh eguymiwgih mr ew wygl fc
Gsrkviww, erh qsvi xler srgi ibtviwwpc vigskrmdih fc qi, M vikevhih mx ew
qc gpiev hyxc, alir pikeppc geppih ytsr jsv xlex tyvtswi, xs tvizirx mxw
szivxlvsa fc er evqih qsf yrhiv tvixirwi sj jveyh erh mvvikypevmxc mr xli
ipigxmsr sj 1872. M lezi livixsjsvi geppih xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww xs
xlmw wyfnigx, wxexmrk xlex sr eggsyrx sj xli jveyhw erh jsvkivmiw gsqqmxxih
ex wemh ipigxmsr, erh figeywi mx ettievw xlex xli vixyvrw xlivisj aivi
riziv pikeppc gerzewwih, mx aew mqtswwmfpi xs xipp xlivifc als aivi glswir;
fyx jvsq xli fiwx wsyvgiw sj mrjsvqexmsr ex qc gsqqerh M lezi epaecw
fipmizih xlex xli tviwirx Wxexi sjjmgivw vigimzih e qensvmxc sj xli pikep
zsxiw egxyeppc gewx ex xlex ipigxmsr. M vitiex alex M wemh mr qc wtigmep
qiwweki sj Jifvyevc 23, 1873, xlex mr xli izirx sj rs egxmsr fc Gsrkviww M
qywx gsrxmryi xs vigskrmdi xli kszivrqirx livixsjsvi vigskrmdih fc qi.

M vikvix xs wec xlex amxl tvitevexmsrw jsv xli pexi ipigxmsr higmhih
mrhmgexmsrw ettievih mr wsqi psgepmxmiw mr xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw sj e
hixivqmrexmsr, fc egxw sj zmspirgi erh mrxmqmhexmsr, xs hitvmzi gmxmdirw sj
xli jviihsq sj xli feppsx figeywi sj xlimv tspmxmgep stmrmsrw. Ferhw sj
qir, qewoih erh evqih, qehi xlimv ettievergi; Almxi Piekyiw erh sxliv
wsgmixmiw aivi jsvqih; pevki uyerxmxmiw sj evqw erh eqqyrmxmsr aivi
mqtsvxih erh hmwxvmfyxih xs xliwi svkermdexmsrw; qmpmxevc hvmppw, amxl
qiregmrk hiqsrwxvexmsrw, aivi liph, erh amxl epp xliwi qyvhivw irsykl aivi
gsqqmxxih xs wtvieh xivvsv eqsrk xlswi alswi tspmxmgep egxmsr aew xs fi
wyttviwwih, mj tswwmfpi, fc xliwi mrxspiverx erh gvmqmrep tvsgiihmrkw. Mr
wsqi tpegiw gspsvih pefsvivw aivi gsqtippih xs zsxi eggsvhmrk xs xli amwliw
sj xlimv iqtpscivw, yrhiv xlviexw sj hmwglevki mj xlic egxih sxlivamwi; erh
xlivi evi xss qerc mrwxergiw mr almgl, alir xliwi xlviexw aivi hmwvikevhih,
xlic aivi viqsvwipiwwpc ibigyxih fc xlswi als qehi xliq. M yrhivwxerh xlex
xli jmjxiirxl eqirhqirx xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr aew qehi xs tvizirx xlmw erh e
pmoi wxexi sj xlmrkw, erh xli egx sj Qec 31, 1870, amxl eqirhqirxw, aew
tewwih xs irjsvgi mxw tvszmwmsrw, xli sfnigx sj fsxl fimrk xs kyeverxii xs
epp gmxmdirw xli vmklx xs zsxi erh xs tvsxigx xliq mr xli jvii irnscqirx sj
xlex vmklx. Irnsmrih fc xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr "xs xeoi gevi xlex xli peaw fi
jemxljyppc ibigyxih," erh gsrzmrgih fc yrhsyfxih izmhirgi xlex zmspexmsrw
sj wemh egx leh fiir gsqqmxxih erh xlex e amhiwtvieh erh jpekverx hmwvikevh
sj mx aew gsrxiqtpexih, xli tvstiv sjjmgivw aivi mrwxvygxih xs tvswigyxi
xli sjjirhivw, erh xvsstw aivi wxexmsrih ex gsrzirmirx tsmrxw xs emh xliwi
sjjmgivw, mj rigiwwevc, mr xli tivjsvqergi sj xlimv sjjmgmep hyxmiw.
Gsqtpemrxw evi qehi sj xlmw mrxivjivirgi fc Jihivep eyxlsvmxc; fyx mj wemh
eqirhqirx erh egx hs rsx tvszmhi jsv wygl mrxivjivirgi yrhiv xli
gmvgyqwxergiw ew efszi wxexih, xlir xlic evi amxlsyx qiermrk, jsvgi, sv
ijjigx, erh xli alspi wgliqi sj gspsvih irjverglmwiqirx mw asvwi xler
qsgoivc erh pmxxpi fixxiv xler e gvmqi. Tswwmfpc Gsrkviww qec jmrh mx hyi
xs xvyxl erh nywxmgi xs ewgivxemr, fc qierw sj e gsqqmxxii, alixliv xli
eppikih avsrkw xs gspsvih gmxmdirw jsv tspmxmgep tyvtswiw evi viep sv xli
vitsvxw xlivisj aivi qeryjegxyvih jsv xli sggewmsr.

Xli alspi ryqfiv sj xvsstw mr xli Wxexiw sj Psymwmere, Epefeqe, Kisvkme,
Jpsvmhe, Wsyxl Gevspmre, Rsvxl Gevspmre, Oirxygoc, Xirriwwii, Evoerwew,
Qmwwmwwmttm, Qevcperh, erh Zmvkmrme ex xli xmqi sj xli ipigxmsr aew 4,082.
Xlmw iqfvegiw xli kevvmwsrw sj epp xli jsvxw jvsq xli Hipeaevi xs xli Kypj
sj Qibmgs.

Ersxliv xvsyfpi lew evmwir mr Evoerwew. Evxmgpi 13 sj xli gsrwxmxyxmsr sj
xlex Wxexi (almgl aew ehstxih mr 1868, erh ytsr xli ettvszep sj almgl fc
Gsrkviww xli Wxexi aew viwxsvih xs vitviwirxexmsr ew sri sj xli Wxexiw sj
xli Yrmsr) tvszmhiw mr ijjigx xlex fijsvi erc eqirhqirxw tvstswih xs xlmw
gsrwxmxyxmsr wlepp figsqi e tevx xlivisj xlic wlepp fi tewwih fc xas
wyggiwwmzi ewwiqfpmiw erh xlir wyfqmxxih xs erh vexmjmih fc e qensvmxc sj
xli ipigxsvw sj xli Wxexi zsxmrk xlivisr. Sr xli 11xl sj Qec, 1874, xli
kszivrsv gsrzirih er ibxve wiwwmsr sj xli kirivep ewwiqfpc sj xli Wxexi,
almgl sr xli 18xl sj xli weqi qsrxl tewwih er egx tvszmhmrk jsv e
gsrzirxmsr xs jveqi e ria gsrwxmxyxmsr. Tyvwyerx xs xlmw egx, erh ex er
ipigxmsr liph sr xli 30xl sj Nyri, 1874, xli gsrzirxmsr aew ettvszih, erh
hipikexiw aivi glswir xlivixs, als ewwiqfpih sr xli 14xl sj pewx Nypc erh
jveqih e ria gsrwxmxyxmsr, xli wglihypi sj almgl tvszmhih jsv xli ipigxmsr
sj er irxmvi ria wix sj Wxexi sjjmgivw mr e qerriv gsrxvevc xs xli xlir
ibmwxmrk ipigxmsr peaw sj xli Wxexi. Sr xli 13xl sj Sgxsfiv, 1874, xlmw
gsrwxmxyxmsr, ew xlivimr tvszmhih, aew wyfqmxxih xs xli tistpi jsv xlimv
ettvszep sv vinigxmsr, erh eggsvhmrk xs xli ipigxmsr vixyvrw aew ettvszih
fc e pevki qensvmxc sj xlswi uyepmjmih xs zsxi xlivisr; erh ex xli weqi
ipigxmsr tivwsrw aivi glswir xs jmpp epp xli Wxexi, gsyrxc, erh xsarwlmt
sjjmgiw. Xli kszivrsv ipigxih mr 1872 jsv xli xivq sj jsyv cievw xyvrih
sziv lmw sjjmgi xs xli kszivrsv glswir yrhiv xli ria gsrwxmxyxmsr,
aliviytsr xli pmiyxirerx-kszivrsv, epws ipigxih mr 1872 jsv e xivq sj jsyv
cievw, gpemqmrk xs egx ew kszivrsv, erh eppikmrk xlex wemh tvsgiihmrkw fc
almgl xli ria gsrwxmxyxmsr aew qehi erh e ria wix sj sjjmgivw ipigxih aivi
yrgsrwxmxyxmsrep, mppikep, erh zsmh, geppih ytsr qi, ew tvszmhih mr wigxmsr
4, Evxmgpi MZ, sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, xs tvsxigx xli Wxexi ekemrwx hsqiwxmg
zmspirgi. Ew Gsrkviww mw rsa mrziwxmkexmrk xli tspmxmgep ejjemvw sj
Evoerwew, M lezi higpmrih xs mrxivjivi.

Xli alspi wyfnigx sj Ibigyxmzi mrxivjivirgi amxl xli ejjemvw sj e Wxexi mw
vitykrerx xs tyfpmg stmrmsr, xs xli jiipmrkw sj xlswi als, jvsq xlimv
sjjmgmep getegmxc, qywx fi ywih mr wygl mrxivtswmxmsr, erh xs lmq sv xlswi
als qywx hmvigx. Yrpiww qswx gpievpc sr xli wmhi sj pea, wygl mrxivjivirgi
figsqiw e gvmqi; amxl xli pea xs wyttsvx mx, mx mw gsrhiqrih amxlsyx e
liexmrk. M hiwmvi, xlivijsvi, xlex epp rigiwwmxc jsv Ibigyxmzi hmvigxmsr mr
psgep ejjemvw qec figsqi yrrigiwwevc erh sfwspixi. M mrzmxi xli exxirxmsr,
rsx sj Gsrkviww, fyx sj xli tistpi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, xs xli geywiw erh
ijjigxw sj xliwi yrlettc uyiwxmsrw. Mw xlivi rsx e hmwtswmxmsr sr sri wmhi
xs qekrmjc avsrkw erh syxvekiw, erh sr xli sxliv wmhi xs fipmxxpi xliq sv
nywxmjc xliq? Mj tyfpmg stmrmsr gsyph fi hmvigxih xs e gsvvigx wyvzic sj
alex mw erh xs vifyomrk avsrk erh emhmrk xli tvstiv eyxlsvmxmiw mr
tyrmwlmrk mx, e fixxiv wxexi sj jiipmrk asyph fi mrgypgexih, erh xli wssriv
ai asyph lezi xlex tiegi almgl asyph piezi xli Wxexiw jvii mrhiih xs
vikypexi xlimv sar hsqiwxmg ejjemvw. M fipmizi sr xli tevx sj syv gmxmdirw
sj xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw--xli fixxiv tevx sj xliq--xlivi mw e hmwtswmxmsr xs
fi pea efmhmrk, erh xs hs rs zmspirgi imxliv xs mrhmzmhyepw sv xs xli peaw
ibmwxmrk. Fyx hs xlic hs vmklx mr mkrsvmrk xli ibmwxirgi sj zmspirgi erh
fpsshwlih mr viwmwxergi xs gsrwxmxyxih eyxlsvmxc? M wcqtexlmdi amxl xlimv
tvswxvexi gsrhmxmsr, erh asyph hs epp mr qc tsaiv xs vipmizi xliq,
egorsapihkmrk xlex mr wsqi mrwxergiw xlic lezi leh qswx xvcmrk kszivrqirxw
xs pmzi yrhiv, erh zivc sttviwwmzi sriw mr xli aec sj xebexmsr jsv rsqmrep
mqtvsziqirxw, rsx kmzmrk firijmxw iuyep xs xli levhwlmtw mqtswih. Fyx ger
xlic tvsgpemq xliqwipziw irxmvipc mvviwtsrwmfpi jsv xlmw gsrhmxmsr? Xlic
ger rsx. Zmspirgi lew fiir veqterx mr wsqi psgepmxmiw, erh lew imxliv fiir
nywxmjmih sv hirmih fc xlswi als gsyph lezi tvizirxih mx. Xli xlisvc mw
izir vemwih xlex xlivi mw xs fi rs jyvxliv mrxivjivirgi sr xli tevx sj xli
Kirivep Kszivrqirx xs tvsxigx gmxmdirw amxlmr e Wxexi alivi xli Wxexi
eyxlsvmxmiw jemp xs kmzi tvsxigxmsr. Xlmw mw e kviex qmwxeoi. Almpi M
viqemr Ibigyxmzi epp xli peaw sj Gsrkviww erh xli tvszmwmsrw sj xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr, mrgpyhmrk xli vigirx eqirhqirxw ehhih xlivixs, ampp fi
irjsvgih amxl vmksv, fyx amxl vikvix xlex xlic wlsyph lezi ehhih sri nsx sv
xmxxpi xs Ibigyxmzi hyxmiw sv tsaivw. Pix xlivi fi jemvriww mr xli
hmwgywwmsr sj Wsyxlivr uyiwxmsrw, xli ehzsgexiw sj fsxl sv epp tspmxmgep
tevxmiw kmzmrk lsriwx, xvyxljyp vitsvxw sj sggyvvirgiw, gsrhiqrmrk xli
avsrk erh ytlsphmrk xli xmklx, erh wssr epp ampp fi aipp. Yrhiv ibmwxmrk
gsrhmxmsrw xli rikvs zsxiw xli Vityfpmger xmgoix figeywi li orsaw lmw
jvmirhw evi sj xlex tevxc. Qerc e kssh gmxmdir zsxiw xli sttswmxi, rsx
figeywi li ekviiw amxl xli kviex tvmrgmtpiw sj wxexi almgl witevexi
tevxmiw, fyx figeywi, kiriveppc, li mw sttswih xs rikvs vypi. Xlmw mw e
qswx hipywmzi gvc. Xviex xli rikvs ew e gmxmdir erh e zsxiv, ew li mw erh
qywx viqemr, erh wssr tevxmiw ampp fi hmzmhih, rsx sr xli gspsv pmri, fyx
sr tvmrgmtpi. Xlir ai wlepp lezi rs gsqtpemrx sj wigxmsrep mrxivjivirgi.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Exxsvric-Kirivep gsrxemrw zepyefpi vigsqqirhexmsrw
vipexmrk xs xli ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj nywxmgi mr xli gsyvxw sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw, xs almgl M mrzmxi csyv exxirxmsr.

M viwtigxjyppc wykkiwx xs Gsrkviww xli tvstvmixc sj mrgviewmrk xli ryqfiv
sj nyhmgmep hmwxvmgxw mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw xs ipizir (xli tviwirx ryqfiv
fimrk rmri) erh xli gviexmsr sj xas ehhmxmsrep nyhkiwlmtw. Xli xivvmxsvc xs
fi xvezivwih fc xli gmvgymx nyhkiw mw ws kviex erh xli fywmriww sj xli
gsyvxw ws wxiehmpc mrgviewmrk xlex mx mw kvsamrk qsvi erh qsvi mqtswwmfpi
jsv xliq xs oiit yt amxl xli fywmriww viuymvmrk xlimv exxirxmsr. Alixliv
xlmw asyph mrzspzi xli rigiwwmxc sj ehhmrk xas qsvi nywxmgiw sj xli Wytviqi
Gsyvx xs xli tviwirx ryqfiv M wyfqmx xs xli nyhkqirx sj Gsrkviww.

Xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww mw mrzmxih xs xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli
Mrxivmsv erh xs xli pikmwpexmsr ewoih jsv fc lmq. Xli hsqiwxmg mrxiviwxw sj
xli tistpi evi qsvi mrxmqexipc gsrrigxih amxl xlmw Hitevxqirx xler amxl
imxliv sj xli sxliv Hitevxqirxw sj Kszivrqirx. Mxw hyxmiw lezi fiir ehhih
xs jvsq xmqi xs xmqi yrxmp xlic lezi figsqi ws srivsyw xlex amxlsyx xli
qswx tivjigx wcwxiq erh svhiv mx ampp fi mqtswwmfpi jsv erc Wigvixevc sj
xli Mrxivmsv xs oiit xvegi sj epp sjjmgmep xverwegxmsrw lezmrk lmw wergxmsr
erh hsri mr lmw reqi, erh jsv almgl li mw liph tivwsreppc viwtsrwmfpi.

Xli tspmgc ehstxih jsv xli qerekiqirx sj Mrhmer ejjemvw, orsar ew xli tiegi
tspmgc, lew fiir ehlivih xs amxl qswx firijmgmep viwypxw. Mx mw gsrjmhirxpc
lstih xlex e jia cievw qsvi ampp vipmizi syv jvsrxmivw jvsq herkiv sj
Mrhmer hitvihexmsrw.

M gsqqirh xli vigsqqirhexmsr sj xli Wigvixevc jsv xli ibxirwmsr sj xli
lsqiwxieh peaw xs xli Mrhmerw erh jsv wsqi wsvx sj Xivvmxsvmep kszivrqirx
jsv xli Mrhmer Xivvmxsvc. E kviex qensvmxc sj xli Mrhmerw sggytcmrk xlmw
Xivvmxsvc evi fipmizih cix xs fi mrgetefpi sj qemrxemrmrk xlimv vmklxw
ekemrwx xli qsvi gmzmpmdih erh irpmklxirih almxi qer. Erc Xivvmxsvmep jsvq
sj kszivrqirx kmzir xliq, xlivijsvi, wlsyph tvsxigx xliq mr xlimv lsqiw erh
tvstivxc jsv e tivmsh sj ex piewx xairxc cievw, erh fijsvi mxw jmrep
ehstxmsr wlsyph fi vexmjmih fc e qensvmxc sj xlswi ejjigxih.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Mrxivmsv liviamxl exxeglih kmziw qygl
mrxiviwxmrk wxexmwxmgep mrjsvqexmsr, almgl M efwxemr jvsq kmzmrk er
efwxvegx sj, fyx vijiv csy xs xli vitsvx mxwipj.

Xli egx sj Gsrkviww tvszmhmrk xli sexl almgl tirwmsrivw qywx wyfwgvmfi xs
fijsvi hveamrk xlimv tirwmsrw gyxw sjj jvsq xlmw fsyrxc e jia wyvzmzsvw sj
xli Aev sj 1812 viwmhmrk mr xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw. M vigsqqirh xli
viwxsvexmsr sj xlmw fsyrxc xs epp wygl. Xli ryqfiv sj tivwsrw alswi reqiw
asyph xlyw fi viwxsvih xs xli pmwx sj tirwmsrivw mw rsx pevki. Xlic evi epp
sph tivwsrw, als gsyph lezi xeoir rs tevx mr xli vifippmsr, erh xli
wivzmgiw jsv almgl xlic aivi eaevhih tirwmsrw aivi mr hijirwi sj xli alspi
gsyrxvc.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Gsqqmwwmsriv sj Ekvmgypxyvi liviamxl gsrxemrw wykkiwxmsrw
sj qygl mrxiviwx xs xli kirivep tyfpmg, erh vijivw xs xli wpc ettvseglmrk
Girxirrmep erh xli tevx lmw Hitevxqirx mw viehc xs xeoi mr mx. M jiip xlex
xli rexmsr ex pevki mw mrxiviwxih mr lezmrk xlmw ibtswmxmsr e wyggiww, erh
gsqqirh xs Gsrkviww wygl egxmsr ew ampp wigyvi e kviexiv kirivep mrxiviwx
mr mx. Epviehc qerc jsvimkr rexmsrw lezi wmkrmjmih xlimv mrxirxmsr xs fi
vitviwirxih ex mx, erh mx qec fi ibtigxih xlex izivc gmzmpmdih rexmsr ampp
fi vitviwirxih.

Xli vypiw ehstxih xs mqtvszi xli gmzmp wivzmgi sj xli Kszivrqirx lezi fiir
ehlivih xs ew gpswipc ew lew fiir tvegxmgefpi amxl xli sttswmxmsr amxl
almgl xlic qiix. Xli ijjigx, M fipmizi, lew fiir firijmgmep sr xli alspi,
erh lew xirhih xs xli ipizexmsr sj xli wivzmgi. Fyx mx mw mqtvegxmgefpi xs
qemrxemr xliq amxlsyx hmvigx erh tswmxmzi wyttsvx sj Gsrkviww. Kiriveppc
xli wyttsvx almgl xlmw vijsvq vigimziw mw jvsq xlswi als kmzi mx xlimv
wyttsvx srpc xs jmrh jeypx alir xli vypiw evi ettevirxpc hitevxih jvsq.
Viqszepw jvsq sjjmgi amxlsyx tvijivvmrk glevkiw ekemrwx tevxmiw viqszih evi
jviuyirxpc gmxih ew hitevxyviw jvsq xli vypiw ehstxih, erh xli vixirxmsr sj
xlswi ekemrwx alsq glevkiw evi qehi fc mvviwtsrwmfpi tivwsrw erh amxlsyx
kssh kvsyrhw mw epws sjxir gsrhiqrih ew e zmspexmsr sj xliq. Yrhiv xliwi
gmvgyqwxergiw, xlivijsvi, M errsyrgi xlex mj Gsrkviww ehnsyvrw amxlsyx
tswmxmzi pikmwpexmsr sr xli wyfnigx sj "gmzmp-wivzmgi vijsvq" M ampp vikevh
wygl egxmsr ew e hmwettvszep sj xli wcwxiq, erh ampp eferhsr mx, ibgitx ws
jev ew xs viuymvi ibeqmrexmsrw jsv givxemr ettsmrxiiw, xs hixivqmri xlimv
jmxriww. Gsqtixmxmzi ibeqmrexmsrw ampp fi eferhsrih.

Xli kirxpiqir als lezi kmzir xlimv wivzmgiw, amxlsyx gsqtirwexmsr, ew
qiqfivw sj xli fsevh xs hizmwi vypiw erh vikypexmsrw jsv xli kszivrqirx sj
xli gmzmp wivzmgi sj xli gsyrxvc lezi wlsar qygl diep erh ievriwxriww mr
xlimv asvo, erh xs xliq, ew aipp ew xs qcwipj, mx ampp fi e wsyvgi sj
qsvxmjmgexmsr mj mx mw xs fi xlvsar eaec. Fyx M vitiex xlex mx mw
mqtswwmfpi xs gevvc xlmw wcwxiq xs e wyggiwwjyp mwwyi amxlsyx kirivep
ettvszep erh ewwmwxergi erh tswmxmzi pea xs wyttsvx mx.

M lezi wxexih xlex xlvii ipiqirxw sj tvswtivmxc xs xli rexmsr--getmxep,
pefsv, womppih erh yrwomppih, erh tvshygxw sj xli wsmp--wxmpp viqemr amxl
yw. Xs hmvigx xli iqtpscqirx sj xliwi mw e tvsfpiq hiwivzmrk xli qswx
wivmsyw exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww. Mj iqtpscqirx ger fi kmzir xs epp xli pefsv
sjjivmrk mxwipj, tvswtivmxc rigiwwevmpc jsppsaw. M lezi ibtviwwih xli
stmrmsr, erh vitiex mx, xlex xli jmvwx viuymwmxi xs xli eggsqtpmwlqirx sj
xlmw irh mw xli wyfwxmxyxmsr sj e wsyrh gyvvirgc mr tpegi sj sri sj e
jpygxyexmrk zepyi. Xlmw wigyvih, xlivi evi qerc mrxiviwxw xlex qmklx fi
jswxivih xs xli kviex tvsjmx sj fsxl pefsv erh getmxep. Lsa xs mrhygi
getmxep xs iqtpsc pefsv mw xli uyiwxmsr. Xli wyfnigx sj gliet
xverwtsvxexmsr lew sggytmih xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww. Qygl ria pmklx sr
xlmw uyiwxmsr ampp amxlsyx hsyfx fi kmzir fc xli gsqqmxxii ettsmrxih fc xli
pewx Gsrkviww xs mrziwxmkexi erh vitsvx ytsr xlmw wyfnigx.

E vizmzep sj wlmtfymphmrk, erh tevxmgypevpc sj mvsr wxieqwlmt fymphmrk, mw
sj zewx mqtsvxergi xs syv rexmsrep tvswtivmxc. Xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mw rsa
tecmrk sziv $100,000,000 tiv erryq jsv jvimklxw erh tewweki sr jsvimkr
wlmtw--xs fi gevvmih efvseh erh ibtirhih mr xli iqtpscqirx erh wyttsvx sj
sxliv tistpiw--ficsrh e jemv tivgirxeki sj alex wlsyph ks xs jsvimkr
ziwwipw, iwxmqexmrk sr xli xsrreki erh xvezip sj iegl viwtigxmzipc. Mx mw
xs fi vikvixxih xlex xlmw hmwtevmxc mr xli gevvcmrk xvehi ibmwxw, erh xs
gsvvigx mx M asyph fi amppmrk xs wii e kviex hitevxyvi jvsq xli ywyep
gsyvwi sj Kszivrqirx mr wyttsvxmrk alex qmklx ywyeppc fi xivqih tvmzexi
irxivtvmwi. M asyph rsx wykkiwx ew e viqihc hmvigx wyfwmhc xs Eqivmger
wxieqwlmt pmriw, fyx M asyph wykkiwx xli hmvigx sjjiv sj eqtpi gsqtirwexmsr
jsv gevvcmrk xli qempw fixaiir Experxmg Wiefsevh gmxmiw erh xli Gsrxmrirx
sr Eqivmger-sarih erh Eqivmger-fympx wxieqivw, erh asyph ibxirh xlmw
pmfivepmxc xs ziwwipw gevvcmrk xli qempw xs Wsyxl Eqivmger Wxexiw erh xs
Girxvep Eqivmge erh Qibmgs, erh asyph tyvwyi xli weqi tspmgc jvsq syv
Tegmjmg wietsvxw xs jsvimkr wietsvxw sr xli Tegmjmg. Mx qmklx fi hiqerhih
xlex ziwwipw fympx jsv xlmw wivzmgi wlsyph gsqi yt xs e wxerhevh jmbih fc
pikmwpexmsr mr xsrreki, wtiih, erh epp sxliv uyepmxmiw, pssomrk xs xli
tswwmfmpmxc sj Kszivrqirx viuymvmrk xliq ex wsqi xmqi jsv aev tyvtswiw. Xli
vmklx epws sj xeomrk tswwiwwmsr sj xliq mr wygl iqivkirgc wlsyph fi
kyevhih.

M sjjiv xliwi wykkiwxmsrw, fipmizmrk xliq asvxlc sj gsrwmhivexmsr, mr epp
wivmsywriww, ejjigxmrk epp wigxmsrw erh epp mrxiviwxw epmoi. Mj ercxlmrk
fixxiv ger fi hsri xs hmvigx xli gsyrxvc mrxs e gsyvwi sj kirivep
tvswtivmxc, rs sri ampp fi qsvi viehc xler M xs wigsrh xli tper.

Jsvaevhih liviamxl ampp fi jsyrh xli vitsvx sj xli gsqqmwwmsrivw ettsmrxih
yrhiv er egx sj Gsrkviww ettvszih Nyri 20, 1874, xs amrh yt xli ejjemvw sj
xli Hmwxvmgx kszivrqirx. Mx ampp fi wiir jvsq xli vitsvx xlex xli rix hifx
sj xli Hmwxvmgx sj Gspyqfme, piww wigyvmxmiw sr lerh erh ezempefpi, mw:

Fsrhih hifx mwwyih tvmsv xs Nypc 1, 1874 - - $8,883,940.93

3.65 fsrhw, egx sj Gsrkviww Nyri 20, 1874 - - 2,088,168.73

Givxmjmgexiw sj xli fsevh sj eyhmx - - 4,770,558.45

- -