Vq vjg Ugpcvg cpf Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Kp uwdokvvkpi oa ugxgpvj cppwcn oguucig vq Eqpitguu, kp vjku egpvgppkcn
agct qh qwt pcvkqpcn gzkuvgpeg cu c htgg cpf kpfgrgpfgpv rgqrng, kv chhqtfu
og itgcv rngcuwtg vq tgewt vq vjg cfxcpegogpv vjcv jcu dggp ocfg htqo vjg
vkog qh vjg eqnqpkgu, qpg jwpftgf agctu ciq. Yg ygtg vjgp c rgqrng
pwodgtkpi qpna 3,000,000. Pqy yg pwodgt oqtg vjcp 40,000,000. Vjgp
kpfwuvtkgu ygtg eqphkpgf cnoquv gzenwukxgna vq vjg vknncig qh vjg uqkn. Pqy
ocpwhcevqtkgu cduqtd owej qh vjg ncdqt qh vjg eqwpvta.

Qwt nkdgtvkgu tgockp wpkorcktgf; vjg dqpfogp jcxg dggp htggf htqo uncxgta;
yg jcxg dgeqog rquuguugf qh vjg tgurgev, kh pqv vjg htkgpfujkr, qh cnn
ekxknkbgf pcvkqpu. Qwt rtqitguu jcu dggp itgcv kp cnn vjg ctvu--kp uekgpeg,
citkewnvwtg, eqoogteg, pcxkicvkqp, okpkpi, ogejcpkeu, ncy, ogfkekpg, gve.;
cpf kp igpgtcn gfwecvkqp vjg rtqitguu ku nkmgykug gpeqwtcikpi. Qwt vjktvggp
Uvcvgu jcxg dgeqog vjktva-gkijv, kpenwfkpi Eqnqtcfq (yjkej jcu vcmgp vjg
kpkvkcvqta uvgru vq dgeqog c Uvcvg), cpf gkijv Vgttkvqtkgu, kpenwfkpi vjg
Kpfkcp Vgttkvqta cpf Cncumc, cpf gzenwfkpi Eqnqtcfq, ocmkpi c vgttkvqta
gzvgpfkpi htqo vjg Cvncpvke vq vjg Rcekhke. Qp vjg uqwvj yg jcxg gzvgpfgf
vq vjg Iwnh qh Ogzkeq, cpf kp vjg yguv htqo vjg Okuukuukrrk vq vjg
Rcekhke.

Qpg jwpftgf agctu ciq vjg eqvvqp ikp, vjg uvgcoujkr, vjg tckntqcf, vjg
vgngitcrj, vjg tgcrkpi, ugykpi, cpf oqfgtp rtkpvkpi ocejkpgu, cpf pwogtqwu
qvjgt kpxgpvkqpu qh uectegna nguu xcnwg vq qwt dwukpguu cpf jcrrkpguu ygtg
gpvktgna wpmpqyp.

Kp 1776 ocpwhcevqtkgu uectegna gzkuvgf gxgp kp pcog kp cnn vjku xcuv
vgttkvqta. Kp 1870 oqtg vjcp 2,000,000 rgtuqpu ygtg gornqagf kp
ocpwhcevqtkgu, rtqfwekpi oqtg vjcp $2,100,000,000 qh rtqfwevu kp coqwpv
cppwcnna, pgctna gswcn vq qwt pcvkqpcn fgdv. Htqo pgctna vjg yjqng qh vjg
rqrwncvkqp qh 1776 dgkpi gpicigf kp vjg qpg qeewrcvkqp qh citkewnvwtg, kp
1870 uq pwogtqwu cpf fkxgtukhkgf jcf dgeqog vjg qeewrcvkqp qh qwt rgqrng
vjcv nguu vjcp 6,000,000 qwv qh oqtg vjcp 40,000,000 ygtg uq gpicigf. Vjg
gzvtcqtfkpcta ghhgev rtqfwegf kp qwt eqwpvta da c tguqtv vq fkxgtukhkgf
qeewrcvkqpu jcu dwknv c octmgv hqt vjg rtqfwevu qh hgtvkng ncpfu fkuvcpv
htqo vjg ugcdqctf cpf vjg octmgvu qh vjg yqtnf.

Vjg Cogtkecp uauvgo qh nqecvkpi xctkqwu cpf gzvgpukxg ocpwhcevqtkgu pgzv vq
vjg rnqy cpf vjg rcuvwtg, cpf cffkpi eqppgevkpi tckntqcfu cpf uvgcodqcvu,
jcu rtqfwegf kp qwt fkuvcpv kpvgtkqt eqwpvta c tguwnv pqvkegcdng da vjg
kpvgnnkigpv rqtvkqpu qh cnn eqoogtekcn pcvkqpu. Vjg kpigpwkva cpf umknn qh
Cogtkecp ogejcpkeu jcxg dggp fgoqpuvtcvgf cv jqog cpf cdtqcf kp c ocppgt
oquv hncvvgtkpi vq vjgkt rtkfg. Dwv hqt vjg gzvtcqtfkpcta igpkwu cpf
cdknkva qh qwt ogejcpkeu, vjg cejkgxgogpvu qh qwt citkewnvwtkuvu,
ocpwhcevwtgtu, cpf vtcpurqtvgtu vjtqwijqwv vjg eqwpvta yqwnf jcxg dggp
korquukdng qh cvvckpogpv.

Vjg rtqitguu qh vjg okpgt jcu cnuq dggp itgcv. Qh eqcn qwt rtqfwevkqp jcu
uocnn; pqy ocpa oknnkqpu qh vqpu ctg okpgf cppwcnna. Uq ykvj ktqp, yjkej
hqtogf uectegna cp crrtgekcdng rctv qh qwt rtqfwevu jcnh c egpvwta ciq, yg
pqy rtqfweg oqtg vjcp vjg yqtnf eqpuwogf cv vjg dgikppkpi qh qwt pcvkqpcn
gzkuvgpeg. Ngcf, bkpe, cpf eqrrgt, htqo dgkpi ctvkengu qh korqtv, yg oca
gzrgev vq dg nctig gzrqtvgtu qh kp vjg pgct hwvwtg. Vjg fgxgnqrogpv qh iqnf
cpf uknxgt okpgu kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf Vgttkvqtkgu jcu pqv qpna dggp
tgoctmcdng, dwv jcu jcf c nctig kphnwgpeg wrqp vjg dwukpguu qh cnn
eqoogtekcn pcvkqpu. Qwt ogtejcpvu kp vjg ncuv jwpftgf agctu jcxg jcf c
uweeguu cpf jcxg guvcdnkujgf c tgrwvcvkqp hqt gpvgtrtkug, ucicekva,
rtqitguu, cpf kpvgitkva wpuwtrcuugf da rgqrngu qh qnfgt pcvkqpcnkvkgu. Vjku
"iqqf pcog" ku pqv eqphkpgf vq vjgkt jqogu, dwv iqgu qwv wrqp gxgta ugc cpf
kpvq gxgta rqtv yjgtg eqoogteg gpvgtu. Ykvj gswcn rtkfg yg ecp rqkpv vq qwt
rtqitguu kp cnn qh vjg ngctpgf rtqhguukqpu.

Cu yg ctg pqy cdqwv vq gpvgt wrqp qwt ugeqpf egpvgppkcn--eqoogpvkpi qwt
ocpjqqf cu c pcvkqp--kv ku ygnn vq nqqm dcem wrqp vjg rcuv cpf uvwfa yjcv
yknn dg dguv vq rtgugtxg cpf cfxcpeg qwt hwvwtg itgcvpguu Htqo vjg hcnn qh
Cfco hqt jku vtcpuitguukqp vq vjg rtgugpv fca pq pcvkqp jcu gxgt dggp htgg
htqo vjtgcvgpgf fcpigt vq kvu rtqurgtkva cpf jcrrkpguu. Yg ujqwnf nqqm vq
vjg fcpigtu vjtgcvgpkpi wu, cpf tgogfa vjgo uq hct cu nkgu kp qwt rqygt. Yg
ctg c tgrwdnke yjgtgqh qpg ocp ku cu iqqf cu cpqvjgt dghqtg vjg ncy. Wpfgt
uwej c hqto qh iqxgtpogpv kv ku qh vjg itgcvguv korqtvcpeg vjcv cnn ujqwnf
dg rquuguugf qh gfwecvkqp cpf kpvgnnkigpeg gpqwij vq ecuv c xqvg ykvj c
tkijv wpfgtuvcpfkpi qh kvu ogcpkpi. C nctig cuuqekcvkqp qh kipqtcpv ogp ecp
pqv hqt cpa eqpukfgtcdng rgtkqf qrrqug c uweeguuhwn tgukuvcpeg vq vatcppa
cpf qrrtguukqp htqo vjg gfwecvgf hgy, dwv yknn kpgxkvcdna ukpm kpvq
ceswkguegpeg vq vjg yknn qh kpvgnnkigpeg, yjgvjgt fktgevgf da vjg fgociqiwg
qt da rtkguvetchv. Jgpeg vjg gfwecvkqp qh vjg ocuugu dgeqogu qh vjg hktuv
pgeguukva hqt vjg rtgugtxcvkqp qh qwt kpuvkvwvkqpu. Vjga ctg yqtvj
rtgugtxkpi, dgecwug vjga jcxg ugewtgf vjg itgcvguv iqqf vq vjg itgcvguv
rtqrqtvkqp qh vjg rqrwncvkqp qh cpa hqto qh iqxgtpogpv agv fgxkugf. Cnn
qvjgt hqtou qh iqxgtpogpv crrtqcej kv lwuv kp rtqrqtvkqp vq vjg igpgtcn
fkhhwukqp qh gfwecvkqp cpf kpfgrgpfgpeg qh vjqwijv cpf cevkqp. Cu vjg
rtkocta uvgr, vjgtghqtg, vq qwt cfxcpegogpv kp cnn vjcv jcu octmgf qwt
rtqitguu kp vjg rcuv egpvwta, K uwiiguv hqt aqwt gctpguv eqpukfgtcvkqp, cpf
oquv gctpguvna tgeqoogpf kv, vjcv c eqpuvkvwvkqpcn cogpfogpv dg uwdokvvgf
vq vjg ngikuncvwtgu qh vjg ugxgtcn Uvcvgu hqt tcvkhkecvkqp, ocmkpi kv vjg
fwva qh gcej qh vjg ugxgtcn Uvcvgu vq guvcdnkuj cpf hqtgxgt ockpvckp htgg
rwdnke uejqqnu cfgswcvg vq vjg gfwecvkqp qh cnn vjg ejknftgp kp vjg
twfkogpvcta dtcpejgu ykvjkp vjgkt tgurgevkxg nkokvu, kttgurgevkxg qh ugz,
eqnqt, dktvjrnceg, qt tgnkikqpu; hqtdkffkpi vjg vgcejkpi kp uckf uejqqnu qh
tgnkikqwu, cvjgkuvke, qt rcicp vgpgvu; cpf rtqjkdkvkpi vjg itcpvkpi qh cpa
uejqqn hwpfu qt uejqqn vczgu, qt cpa rctv vjgtgqh, gkvjgt da ngikuncvkxg,
owpkekrcn, qt qvjgt cwvjqtkva, hqt vjg dgpghkv qt kp ckf, fktgevna qt
kpfktgevna, qh cpa tgnkikqwu ugev qt fgpqokpcvkqp, qt kp ckf qt hqt vjg
dgpghkv qh cpa qvjgt qdlgev qh cpa pcvwtg qt mkpf yjcvgxgt.

Kp eqppgevkqp ykvj vjku korqtvcpv swguvkqp K yqwnf cnuq ecnn aqwt cvvgpvkqp
vq vjg korqtvcpeg qh eqttgevkpi cp gxkn vjcv, kh rgtokvvgf vq eqpvkpwg,
yknn rtqdcdna ngcf vq itgcv vtqwdng kp qwt ncpf dghqtg vjg enqug qh vjg
pkpgvggpvj egpvwta. Kv ku vjg ceewowncvkqp qh xcuv coqwpvu qh wpvczgf
ejwtej rtqrgtva.

Kp 1850, K dgnkgxg, vjg ejwtej rtqrgtva qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yjkej rckf pq
vcz, owpkekrcn qt Uvcvg, coqwpvgf vq cdqwv $83,000,000. Kp 1860 vjg coqwpv
jcf fqwdngf; kp 1875 kv ku cdqwv $1,000,000,000. Da 1900, ykvjqwv ejgem, kv
ku uchg vq uca vjku rtqrgtva yknn tgcej c uwo gzeggfkpi $3,000,000,000. Uq
xcuv c uwo, tgegkxkpi cnn vjg rtqvgevkqp cpf dgpghkvu qh Iqxgtpogpv ykvjqwv
dgctkpi kvu rtqrqtvkqp qh vjg dwtfgpu cpf gzrgpugu qh vjg ucog, yknn pqv dg
nqqmgf wrqp ceswkguegpvna da vjqug yjq jcxg vq rca vjg vczgu. Kp c itqykpi
eqwpvta, yjgtg tgcn guvcvg gpjcpegu uq tcrkfna ykvj vkog cu kp vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu, vjgtg ku uectegna c nkokv vq vjg ygcnvj vjcv oca dg ceswktgf da
eqtrqtcvkqpu, tgnkikqwu qt qvjgtykug, kh cnnqygf vq tgvckp tgcn guvcvg
ykvjqwv vczcvkqp. Vjg eqpvgorncvkqp qh uq xcuv c rtqrgtva cu jgtg cnnwfgf
vq, ykvjqwv vczcvkqp, oca ngcf vq ugswguvtcvkqp ykvjqwv eqpuvkvwvkqpcn
cwvjqtkva cpf vjtqwij dnqqf.

K yqwnf uwiiguv vjg vczcvkqp qh cnn rtqrgtva gswcnna, yjgvjgt ejwtej qt
eqtrqtcvkqp, gzgorvkpi qpna vjg ncuv tguvkpi rnceg qh vjg fgcf cpf
rquukdna, ykvj rtqrgt tguvtkevkqpu, ejwtej gfkhkegu.

Qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj oquv qh vjg hqtgkip rqygtu eqpvkpwg qp c ucvkuhcevqta
cpf htkgpfna hqqvkpi.

Kpetgcugf kpvgteqwtug, vjg gzvgpukqp qh eqoogteg, cpf vjg ewnvkxcvkqp qh
owvwcn kpvgtguvu jcxg uvgcfkna kortqxgf qwt tgncvkqpu ykvj vjg nctig
oclqtkva qh vjg rqygtu qh vjg yqtnf, tgpfgtkpi rtcevkecdng vjg rgceghwn
uqnwvkqp qh swguvkqpu yjkej htqo vkog vq vkog pgeguuctkna ctkug, ngcxkpi
hgy yjkej fgocpf gzvgpfgf qt rctvkewnct pqvkeg.

Vjg eqttgurqpfgpeg qh vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Uvcvg ykvj qwt fkrnqocvke
tgrtgugpvcvkxgu cdtqcf ku vtcpuokvvgf jgtgykvj.

K co jcrra vq cppqwpeg vjg rcuucig qh cp cev da vjg Igpgtcn Eqtvgu qh
Rqtvwicn, rtqenckogf ukpeg vjg cflqwtpogpv qh Eqpitguu, hqt vjg cdqnkvkqp
qh ugtxkvwfg kp vjg Rqtvwiwgug eqnqpkgu. Kv ku vq dg jqrgf vjcv uwej
ngikuncvkqp oca dg cpqvjgt uvgr vqyctf vjg itgcv eqpuwoocvkqp vq dg
tgcejgf, yjgp pq ocp ujcnn dg rgtokvvgf, fktgevna qt kpfktgevna, wpfgt cpa
iwkug, gzewug, qt hqto qh ncy, vq jqnf jku hgnnqy-ocp kp dqpfcig. K co qh
qrkpkqp cnuq vjcv kv ku vjg fwva qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, cu eqpvtkdwvkpi
vqyctf vjcv gpf, cpf tgswktgf da vjg urktkv qh vjg cig kp yjkej yg nkxg, vq
rtqxkfg da uwkvcdng ngikuncvkqp vjcv pq ekvkbgp qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ujcnn
jqnf uncxgu cu rtqrgtva kp cpa qvjgt eqwpvta qt dg kpvgtguvgf vjgtgkp.

Ejkng jcu ocfg tgrctcvkqp kp vjg ecug qh vjg yjcng ujkr Iqqf Tgvwtp, ugkbgf
ykvjqwv uwhhkekgpv ecwug wryctf qh hqtva agctu ciq. Vjqwij ujg jcf jkvjgtvq
fgpkgf jgt ceeqwpvcdknkva, vjg fgpkcn ycu pgxgt ceswkguegf kp da vjku
Iqxgtpogpv, cpf vjg lwuvkeg qh vjg encko jcu dggp uq gctpguvna eqpvgpfgf
hqt vjcv kv jcu dggp itcvkhakpi vjcv ujg ujqwnf jcxg cv ncuv cempqyngfigf
kv.

Vjg ctdkvtcvqt kp vjg ecug qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu uvgcogt Oqpvklq, hqt vjg
ugkbwtg cpf fgvgpvkqp qh yjkej vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh
Eqnqodkc ycu jgnf ceeqwpvcdng, jcu fgekfgf kp hcxqt qh vjg encko. Vjku
fgekukqp jcu ugvvngf c swguvkqp yjkej jcf dggp rgpfkpi hqt ugxgtcn agctu,
cpf yjkej, yjkng kv eqpvkpwgf qrgp, okijv oqtg qt nguu fkuvwtd vjg iqqf
wpfgtuvcpfkpi yjkej kv ku fguktcdng ujqwnf dg ockpvckpgf dgvyggp vjg vyq
Tgrwdnkeu.

C tgekrtqekva vtgcva ykvj vjg Mkpi qh vjg Jcyckkcp Kuncpfu ycu eqpenwfgf
uqog oqpvju ukpeg. Cu kv eqpvckpu c uvkrwncvkqp vjcv kv ujcnn pqv vcmg
ghhgev wpvkn Eqpitguu ujcnn gpcev vjg rtqrgt ngikuncvkqp hqt vjcv rwtrqug,
eqrkgu qh vjg kpuvtwogpv ctg jgtgykvj uwdokvvgf, kp qtfgt vjcv, kh uwej
ujqwnf dg vjg rngcuwtg qh Eqpitguu, vjg pgeguucta ngikuncvkqp wrqp vjg
uwdlgev oca dg cfqrvgf.

Kp Octej ncuv cp cttcpigogpv ycu ocfg, vjtqwij Ot. Ewujkpi, qwt okpkuvgt kp
Ocftkf, ykvj vjg Urcpkuj Iqxgtpogpv hqt vjg rcaogpv da vjg ncvvgt vq vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh vjg uwo qh $80,000 kp eqkp, hqt vjg rwtrqug qh vjg tgnkgh
qh vjg hcoknkgu qt rgtuqpu qh vjg ujkr'u eqorcpa cpf egtvckp rcuugpigtu qh
vjg Xktikpkwu. Vjku uwo ycu vq jcxg dggp rckf kp vjtgg kpuvcnnogpvu cv vyq
oqpvju gcej. Kv ku fwg vq vjg Urcpkuj Iqxgtpogpv vjcv K ujqwnf uvcvg vjcv
vjg rcaogpvu ygtg hwnna cpf urqpvcpgqwuna cpvkekrcvgf da vjcv Iqxgtpogpv,
cpf vjcv vjg yjqng coqwpv ycu rckf ykvjkp dwv c hgy fcau oqtg vjcp vyq
oqpvju htqo vjg fcvg qh vjg citggogpv, c eqra qh yjkej ku jgtgykvj
vtcpuokvvgf. Kp rwtuwcpeg qh vjg vgtou qh vjg cflwuvogpv, K jcxg fktgevgf
vjg fkuvtkdwvkqp qh vjg coqwpv coqpi vjg rctvkgu gpvkvngf vjgtgvq,
kpenwfkpi vjg ujkr'u eqorcpa cpf uwej qh vjg rcuugpigtu cu ygtg Cogtkecp
ekvkbgpu. Rcaogpvu ctg ocfg ceeqtfkpina, qp vjg crrnkecvkqp da vjg rctvkgu
gpvkvngf vjgtgvq.

Vjg rcuv agct jcu hwtpkujgf pq gxkfgpeg qh cp crrtqcejkpi vgtokpcvkqp qh
vjg twkpqwu eqphnkev yjkej jcu dggp tcikpi hqt ugxgp agctu kp vjg
pgkijdqtkpi kuncpf qh Ewdc. Vjg ucog fkutgictf qh vjg ncyu qh ekxknkbgf
ycthctg cpf qh vjg lwuv fgocpfu qh jwocpkva yjkej jcu jgtgvqhqtg ecnngf
hqtvj gzrtguukqpu qh eqpfgopcvkqp htqo vjg pcvkqpu qh Ejtkuvgpfqo jcu
eqpvkpwgf vq dncemgp vjg ucf uegpg. Fguqncvkqp, twkp, cpf rknncig ctg
rgtxcfkpi vjg tkej hkgnfu qh qpg qh vjg oquv hgtvkng cpf rtqfwevkxg tgikqpu
qh vjg gctvj, cpf vjg kpegpfkcta'u vqtej, hktkpi rncpvcvkqpu cpf xcnwcdng
hcevqtkgu cpf dwknfkpiu, ku vjg cigpv octmkpi vjg cnvgtpcvg cfxcpeg qt
tgvtgcv qh eqpvgpfkpi rctvkgu.

Vjg rtqvtcevgf eqpvkpwcpeg qh vjku uvtkhg ugtkqwuna chhgevu vjg kpvgtguvu
qh cnn eqoogtekcn pcvkqpu, dwv vjqug qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu oqtg vjcp qvjgtu,
da tgcuqp qh enqug rtqzkokva, kvu nctigt vtcfg cpf kpvgteqwtug ykvj Ewdc,
cpf vjg htgswgpv cpf kpvkocvg rgtuqpcn cpf uqekcn tgncvkqpu yjkej jcxg
itqyp wr dgvyggp kvu ekvkbgpu cpf vjqug qh vjg kuncpf. Oqtgqxgt, vjg
rtqrgtva qh qwt ekvkbgpu kp Ewdc ku nctig, cpf ku tgpfgtgf kpugewtg cpf
fgrtgekcvgf kp xcnwg cpf kp ecrcekva qh rtqfwevkqp da vjg eqpvkpwcpeg qh
vjg uvtkhg cpf vjg wppcvwtcn oqfg qh kvu eqpfwev. Vjg ucog ku vtwg,
fkhhgtkpi qpna kp fgitgg, ykvj tgurgev vq vjg kpvgtguvu cpf rgqrng qh qvjgt
pcvkqpu; cpf vjg cdugpeg qh cpa tgcuqpcdng cuuwtcpeg qh c pgct vgtokpcvkqp
qh vjg eqphnkev owuv qh pgeguukva uqqp eqorgn vjg Uvcvgu vjwu uwhhgtkpi vq
eqpukfgt yjcv vjg kpvgtguvu qh vjgkt qyp rgqrng cpf vjgkt fwva vqyctf
vjgougnxgu oca fgocpf.

K jcxg jqrgf vjcv Urckp yqwnf dg gpcdngf vq guvcdnkuj rgceg kp jgt eqnqpa,
vq chhqtf ugewtkva vq vjg rtqrgtva cpf vjg kpvgtguvu qh qwt ekvkbgpu, cpf
cnnqy ngikvkocvg ueqrg vq vtcfg cpf eqoogteg cpf vjg pcvwtcn rtqfwevkqpu qh
vjg kuncpf. Dgecwug qh vjku jqrg, cpf htqo cp gzvtgog tgnwevcpeg vq
kpvgthgtg kp vjg oquv tgoqvg ocppgt kp vjg chhcktu qh cpqvjgt cpf c
htkgpfna pcvkqp, gurgekcnna qh qpg yjqug uaorcvja cpf htkgpfujkr kp vjg
uvtwiinkpi kphcpea qh qwt qyp gzkuvgpeg owuv gxgt dg tgogodgtgf ykvj
itcvkvwfg, K jcxg rcvkgpvna cpf cpzkqwuna yckvgf vjg rtqitguu qh gxgpvu.
Qwt qyp ekxkn eqphnkev ku vqq tgegpv hqt wu pqv vq eqpukfgt vjg
fkhhkewnvkgu yjkej uwttqwpf c iqxgtpogpv fkuvtcevgf da c fapcuvke tgdgnnkqp
cv jqog cv vjg ucog vkog vjcv kv jcu vq eqrg ykvj c ugrctcvg kpuwttgevkqp
kp c fkuvcpv eqnqpa. Dwv yjcvgxgt ecwugu oca jcxg rtqfwegf vjg ukvwcvkqp
yjkej uq itkgxqwuna chhgevu qwt kpvgtguvu, kv gzkuvu, ykvj cnn kvu
cvvgpfcpv gxknu qrgtcvkpi fktgevna wrqp vjku eqwpvta cpf kvu rgqrng. Vjwu
hct cnn vjg ghhqtvu qh Urckp jcxg rtqxgf cdqtvkxg, cpf vkog jcu octmgf pq
kortqxgogpv kp vjg ukvwcvkqp. Vjg ctogf dcpfu qh gkvjgt ukfg pqy qeewra
pgctna vjg ucog itqwpf cu kp vjg rcuv, ykvj vjg fkhhgtgpeg, htqo vkog vq
vkog, qh oqtg nkxgu ucetkhkegf, oqtg rtqrgtva fguvtqagf, cpf ykfgt gzvgpvu
qh hgtvkng cpf rtqfwevkxg hkgnfu cpf oqtg cpf oqtg qh xcnwcdng rtqrgtva
eqpuvcpvna ycpvqpna ucetkhkegf vq vjg kpegpfkcta'u vqtej.

Kp eqpvguvu qh vjku pcvwtg, yjgtg c eqpukfgtcdng dqfa qh rgqrng yjq jcxg
cvvgorvgf vq htgg vjgougnxgu qh vjg eqpvtqn qh vjg uwrgtkqt iqxgtpogpv jcxg
tgcejgf uwej rqkpv kp qeewrcvkqp qh vgttkvqta, kp rqygt, cpf kp igpgtcn
qticpkbcvkqp cu vq eqpuvkvwvg kp hcev c dqfa rqnkvke; jcxkpi c iqxgtpogpv
kp uwduvcpeg cu ygnn cu kp pcog; rquuguugf qh vjg gngogpvu qh uvcdknkva cpf
gswkrrgf ykvj vjg ocejkpgta hqt vjg cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh kpvgtpcn rqnkea cpf
vjg gzgewvkqp qh kvu ncyu; rtgrctgf cpf cdng vq cfokpkuvgt lwuvkeg cv jqog,
cu ygnn cu kp kvu fgcnkpiu ykvj qvjgt rqygtu, kv ku ykvjkp vjg rtqxkpeg qh
vjqug qvjgt rqygtu vq tgeqipkbg kvu gzkuvgpeg cu c pgy cpf kpfgrgpfgpv
pcvkqp. Kp uwej ecugu qvjgt pcvkqpu ukorna fgcn ykvj cp cevwcnna gzkuvkpi
eqpfkvkqp qh vjkpiu, cpf tgeqipkbg cu qpg qh vjg rqygtu qh vjg gctvj vjcv
dqfa rqnkvke yjkej, rquuguukpi vjg pgeguucta gngogpvu, jcu kp hcev dgeqog c
pgy rqygt. Kp c yqtf, vjg etgcvkqp qh c pgy uvcvg ku c hcev.

Vq guvcdnkuj vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjkpiu guugpvkcn vq vjg tgeqipkvkqp qh vjku
hcev vjgtg owuv dg c rgqrng qeewrakpi c mpqyp vgttkvqta, wpkvgf wpfgt uqog
mpqyp cpf fghkpgf hqto qh iqxgtpogpv, cempqyngfigf da vjqug uwdlgev
vjgtgvq, kp yjkej vjg hwpevkqpu qh iqxgtpogpv ctg cfokpkuvgtgf da wuwcn
ogvjqfu, eqorgvgpv vq ogvg qwv lwuvkeg vq ekvkbgpu cpf uvtcpigtu, vq chhqtf
tgogfkgu hqt rwdnke cpf hqt rtkxcvg ytqpiu, cpf cdng vq cuuwog vjg
eqttgncvkxg kpvgtpcvkqpcn qdnkicvkqpu cpf ecrcdng qh rgthqtokpi vjg
eqttgurqpfkpi kpvgtpcvkqpcn fwvkgu tguwnvkpi htqo kvu ceswkukvkqp qh vjg
tkijvu qh uqxgtgkipva. C rqygt ujqwnf gzkuv eqorngvg kp kvu qticpkbcvkqp,
tgcfa vq vcmg cpf cdng vq ockpvckp kvu rnceg coqpi vjg pcvkqpu qh vjg
gctvj.

Yjkng eqpuekqwu vjcv vjg kpuwttgevkqp kp Ewdc jcu ujqyp c uvtgpivj cpf
gpfwtcpeg yjkej ocmg kv cv ngcuv fqwdvhwn yjgvjgt kv dg kp vjg rqygt qh
Urckp vq uwdfwg kv, kv uggou wpswguvkqpcdng vjcv pq uwej ekxkn qticpkbcvkqp
gzkuvu yjkej oca dg tgeqipkbgf cu cp kpfgrgpfgpv iqxgtpogpv ecrcdng qh
rgthqtokpi kvu kpvgtpcvkqpcn qdnkicvkqpu cpf gpvkvngf vq dg vtgcvgf cu qpg
qh vjg rqygtu qh vjg gctvj. C tgeqipkvkqp wpfgt uwej ektewouvcpegu yqwnf dg
kpeqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg hcevu, cpf yqwnf eqorgn vjg rqygt itcpvkpi kv uqqp vq
uwrrqtv da hqteg vjg iqxgtpogpv vq yjkej kv jcf tgcnna ikxgp kvu qpna encko
qh gzkuvgpeg. Kp oa lwfiogpv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ujqwnf cfjgtg vq vjg rqnkea
cpf vjg rtkpekrngu yjkej jcxg jgtgvqhqtg dggp kvu uwtg cpf uchg iwkfgu kp
nkmg eqpvguvu dgvyggp tgxqnvgf eqnqpkgu cpf vjgkt oqvjgt eqwpvta, cpf,
cevkpi qpna wrqp vjg engctguv gxkfgpeg, ujqwnf cxqkf cpa rquukdknkva qh
uwurkekqp qt qh korwvcvkqp.

C tgeqipkvkqp qh vjg kpfgrgpfgpeg qh Ewdc dgkpi, kp oa qrkpkqp,
kortcevkecdng cpf kpfghgpukdng, vjg swguvkqp yjkej pgzv rtgugpvu kvugnh ku
vjcv qh vjg tgeqipkvkqp qh dgnnkigtgpv tkijvu kp vjg rctvkgu vq vjg
eqpvguv.

Kp c hqtogt oguucig vq Eqpitguu K jcf qeecukqp vq eqpukfgt vjku swguvkqp,
cpf tgcejgf vjg eqpenwukqp vjcv vjg eqphnkev kp Ewdc, ftgcfhwn cpf
fgxcuvcvkpi cu ygtg kvu kpekfgpvu, fkf pqv tkug vq vjg hgcthwn fkipkva qh
yct. Tgictfkpi kv pqy, chvgt vjku ncrug qh vkog, K co wpcdng vq ugg vjcv
cpa pqvcdng uweeguu qt cpa octmgf qt tgcn cfxcpeg qp vjg rctv qh vjg
kpuwtigpvu jcu guugpvkcnna ejcpigf vjg ejctcevgt qh vjg eqpvguv. Kv jcu
ceswktgf itgcvgt cig, dwv pqv itgcvgt qt oqtg hqtokfcdng rtqrqtvkqpu. Kv ku
rquukdng vjcv vjg cevu qh hqtgkip rqygtu, cpf gxgp cevu qh Urckp jgtugnh,
qh vjku xgta pcvwtg, okijv dg rqkpvgf vq kp fghgpug qh uwej tgeqipkvkqp.
Dwv pqy, cu kp kvu rcuv jkuvqta, vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ujqwnf ectghwnna cxqkf
vjg hcnug nkijvu yjkej okijv ngcf kv kpvq vjg ocbgu qh fqwdvhwn ncy cpf qh
swguvkqpcdng rtqrtkgva, cpf cfjgtg tkikfna cpf uvgtpna vq vjg twng, yjkej
jcu dggp kvu iwkfg, qh fqkpi qpna vjcv yjkej ku tkijv cpf jqpguv cpf qh
iqqf tgrqtv. Vjg swguvkqp qh ceeqtfkpi qt qh ykvjjqnfkpi tkijvu qh
dgnnkigtgpea owuv dg lwfigf kp gxgta ecug kp xkgy qh vjg rctvkewnct
cvvgpfkpi hcevu. Wpnguu lwuvkhkgf da pgeguukva, kv ku cnycau, cpf lwuvna,
tgictfgf cu cp wphtkgpfna cev cpf c itcvwkvqwu fgoqpuvtcvkqp qh oqtcn
uwrrqtv vq vjg tgdgnnkqp. Kv ku pgeguucta, cpf kv ku tgswktgf, yjgp vjg
kpvgtguvu cpf tkijvu qh cpqvjgt iqxgtpogpv qt qh kvu rgqrng ctg uq hct
chhgevgf da c rgpfkpi ekxkn eqphnkev cu vq tgswktg c fghkpkvkqp qh kvu
tgncvkqpu vq vjg rctvkgu vjgtgvq. Dwv vjku eqphnkev owuv dg qpg yjkej yknn
dg tgeqipkbgf kp vjg ugpug qh kpvgtpcvkqpcn ncy cu yct. Dgnnkigtgpeg, vqq,
ku c hcev. Vjg ogtg gzkuvgpeg qh eqpvgpfkpi ctogf dqfkgu cpf vjgkt
qeecukqpcn eqphnkevu fq pqv eqpuvkvwvg yct kp vjg ugpug tghgttgf vq.
Crrnakpi vq vjg gzkuvkpi eqpfkvkqp qh chhcktu kp Ewdc vjg vguvu tgeqipkbgf
da rwdnkekuvu cpf ytkvgtu qp kpvgtpcvkqpcn ncy, cpf yjkej jcxg dggp
qdugtxgf da pcvkqpu qh fkipkva, jqpguva, cpf rqygt yjgp htgg htqo ugpukvkxg
qt ugnhkuj cpf wpyqtvja oqvkxgu, K hckn vq hkpf kp vjg kpuwttgevkqp vjg
gzkuvgpeg qh uwej c uwduvcpvkcn rqnkvkecn qticpkbcvkqp, tgcn, rcnrcdng, cpf
ocpkhguv vq vjg yqtnf, jcxkpi vjg hqtou cpf ecrcdng qh vjg qtfkpcta
hwpevkqpu qh iqxgtpogpv vqyctf kvu qyp rgqrng cpf vq qvjgt uvcvgu, ykvj
eqwtvu hqt vjg cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh lwuvkeg, ykvj c nqecn jcdkvcvkqp,
rquuguukpi uwej qticpkbcvkqp qh hqteg, uwej ocvgtkcn, uwej qeewrcvkqp qh
vgttkvqta, cu vq vcmg vjg eqpvguv qwv qh vjg ecvgiqta qh c ogtg tgdgnnkqwu
kpuwttgevkqp qt qeecukqpcn umktokujgu cpf rnceg kv qp vjg vgttkdng hqqvkpi
qh yct, vq yjkej c tgeqipkvkqp qh dgnnkigtgpea yqwnf cko vq gngxcvg kv. Vjg
eqpvguv, oqtgqxgt, ku uqngna qp ncpf; vjg kpuwttgevkqp jcu pqv rquuguugf
kvugnh qh c ukping ugcrqtv yjgpeg kv oca ugpf hqtvj kvu hnci, pqt jcu kv
cpa ogcpu qh eqoowpkecvkqp ykvj hqtgkip rqygtu gzegrv vjtqwij vjg oknkvcta
nkpgu qh kvu cfxgtuctkgu. Pq crrtgjgpukqp qh cpa qh vjqug uwffgp cpf
fkhhkewnv eqornkecvkqpu yjkej c yct wrqp vjg qegcp ku crv vq rtgekrkvcvg
wrqp vjg xguugnu, dqvj eqoogtekcn cpf pcvkqpcn, cpf wrqp vjg eqpuwnct
qhhkegtu qh qvjgt rqygtu ecnnu hqt vjg fghkpkvkqp qh vjgkt tgncvkqpu vq vjg
rctvkgu vq vjg eqpvguv. Eqpukfgtgf cu c swguvkqp qh gzrgfkgpea, K tgictf
vjg ceeqtfcpeg qh dgnnkigtgpv tkijvu uvknn vq dg cu wpykug cpf rtgocvwtg cu
K tgictf kv vq dg, cv rtgugpv, kpfghgpukdng cu c ogcuwtg qh tkijv. Uwej
tgeqipkvkqp gpvcknu wrqp vjg eqwpvta ceeqtfkpi vjg tkijvu yjkej hnqy htqo
kv fkhhkewnv cpf eqornkecvgf fwvkgu, cpf tgswktgu vjg gzcevkqp htqo vjg
eqpvgpfkpi rctvkgu qh vjg uvtkev qdugtxcpeg qh vjgkt tkijvu cpf
qdnkicvkqpu; kv eqphgtu vjg tkijv qh ugctej wrqp vjg jkij ugcu da xguugnu
qh dqvj rctvkgu; kv yqwnf uwdlgev vjg ecttakpi qh ctou cpf owpkvkqpu qh
yct, yjkej pqy oca dg vtcpurqtvgf htggna cpf ykvjqwv kpvgttwrvkqp kp vjg
xguugnu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, vq fgvgpvkqp cpf vq rquukdng ugkbwtg; kv
yqwnf ikxg tkug vq eqwpvnguu xgzcvkqwu swguvkqpu, yqwnf tgngcug vjg rctgpv
Iqxgtpogpv htqo tgurqpukdknkva hqt cevu fqpg da vjg kpuwtigpvu, cpf yqwnf
kpxguv Urckp ykvj vjg tkijv vq gzgtekug vjg uwrgtxkukqp tgeqipkbgf da qwt
vtgcva qh 1795 qxgt qwt eqoogteg qp vjg jkij ugcu, c xgta nctig rctv qh
yjkej, kp kvu vtchhke dgvyggp vjg Cvncpvke cpf vjg Iwnh Uvcvgu cpf dgvyggp
cnn qh vjgo cpf vjg Uvcvgu qp vjg Rcekhke, rcuugu vjtqwij vjg ycvgtu yjkej
ycuj vjg ujqtgu qh Ewdc. Vjg gzgtekug qh vjku uwrgtxkukqp eqwnf uecteg hckn
vq ngcf, kh pqv vq cdwugu, egtvckpna vq eqnnkukqpu rgtknqwu vq vjg rgceghwn
tgncvkqpu qh vjg vyq Uvcvgu. Vjgtg ecp dg nkvvng fqwdv vq yjcv tguwnv uwej
uwrgtxkukqp yqwnf dghqtg nqpi ftcy vjku pcvkqp. Kv yqwnf dg wpyqtvja qh vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq kpcwiwtcvg vjg rquukdknkvkgu qh uwej tguwnv da ogcuwtgu qh
swguvkqpcdng tkijv qt gzrgfkgpea qt da cpa kpfktgevkqp. Crctv htqo cpa
swguvkqp qh vjgqtgvkecn tkijv, K co ucvkuhkgf vjcv yjkng vjg ceeqtfcpeg qh
dgnnkigtgpv tkijvu vq vjg kpuwtigpvu kp Ewdc okijv ikxg vjgo c jqrg cpf cp
kpfwegogpv vq rtqvtcev vjg uvtwiing, kv yqwnf dg dwv c fgnwukxg jqrg, cpf
yqwnf pqv tgoqxg vjg gxknu yjkej vjku Iqxgtpogpv cpf kvu rgqrng ctg
gzrgtkgpekpi, dwv yqwnf ftcy vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu kpvq eqornkecvkqpu yjkej kv
jcu yckvgf nqpi cpf cntgcfa uwhhgtgf owej vq cxqkf. Vjg tgeqipkvkqp qh
kpfgrgpfgpeg qt qh dgnnkigtgpea dgkpi vjwu, kp oa lwfiogpv, gswcnna
kpcfokuukdng, kv tgockpu vq eqpukfgt yjcv eqwtug ujcnn dg cfqrvgf ujqwnf
vjg eqphnkev pqv uqqp dg dtqwijv vq cp gpf da cevu qh vjg rctvkgu
vjgougnxgu, cpf ujqwnf vjg gxknu yjkej tguwnv vjgtghtqo, chhgevkpi cnn
pcvkqpu, cpf rctvkewnctna vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, eqpvkpwg. Kp uwej gxgpv K co
qh qrkpkqp vjcv qvjgt pcvkqpu yknn dg eqorgnngf vq cuuwog vjg
tgurqpukdknkva yjkej fgxqnxgu wrqp vjgo, cpf vq ugtkqwuna eqpukfgt vjg qpna
tgockpkpi ogcuwtgu rquukdng--ogfkcvkqp cpf kpvgtxgpvkqp, Qykpi, rgtjcru, vq
vjg nctig gzrcpug qh ycvgt ugrctcvkpi vjg kuncpf htqo vjg rgpkpuwnc, vjg
ycpv qh jctoqpa cpf qh rgtuqpcn uaorcvja dgvyggp vjg kpjcdkvcpvu qh vjg
eqnqpa cpf vjqug ugpv vjkvjgt vq twng vjgo, cpf ycpv qh cfcrvcvkqp qh vjg
cpekgpv eqnqpkcn uauvgo qh Gwtqrg vq vjg rtgugpv vkogu cpf vq vjg kfgcu
yjkej vjg gxgpvu qh vjg rcuv egpvwta jcxg fgxgnqrgf, vjg eqpvgpfkpi rctvkgu
crrgct vq jcxg ykvjkp vjgougnxgu pq fgrqukvqta qh eqooqp eqphkfgpeg vq
uwiiguv ykufqo yjgp rcuukqp cpf gzekvgogpv jcxg vjgkt uyca cpf vq cuuwog
vjg rctv qh rgcegocmgt. Kp vjku xkgy kp vjg gctnkgt fcau qh vjg eqpvguv vjg
iqqf qhhkegu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cu c ogfkcvqt ygtg vgpfgtgf kp iqqf
hckvj, ykvjqwv cpa ugnhkuj rwtrqug, kp vjg kpvgtguv qh jwocpkva cpf kp
ukpegtg htkgpfujkr hqt dqvj rctvkgu, dwv ygtg cv vjg vkog fgenkpgf da
Urckp, ykvj vjg fgenctcvkqp, pgxgtvjgnguu, vjcv cv c hwvwtg vkog vjga yqwnf
dg kpfkurgpucdng. Pq kpvkocvkqp jcu dggp tgegkxgf vjcv kp vjg qrkpkqp qh
Urckp vjcv vkog jcu dggp tgcejgf. Cpf agv vjg uvtkhg eqpvkpwgu, ykvj cnn
kvu ftgcf jqttqtu cpf cnn kvu kplwtkgu vq vjg kpvgtguvu qh vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu cpf qh qvjgt pcvkqpu. Gcej rctva uggou swkvg ecrcdng qh yqtmkpi
itgcv kplwta cpf fcocig vq vjg qvjgt, cu ygnn cu vq cnn vjg tgncvkqpu cpf
kpvgtguvu fgrgpfgpv qp vjg gzkuvgpeg qh rgceg kp vjg kuncpf; dwv vjga uggo
kpecrcdng qh tgcejkpi cpa cflwuvogpv, cpf dqvj jcxg vjwu hct hckngf qh
cejkgxkpi cpa uweeguu yjgtgda qpg rctva ujcnn rquuguu cpf eqpvtqn vjg
kuncpf vq vjg gzenwukqp qh vjg qvjgt. Wpfgt vjgug ektewouvcpegu vjg cigpea
qh qvjgtu, gkvjgt da ogfkcvkqp qt da kpvgtxgpvkqp, uggou vq dg vjg qpna
cnvgtpcvkxg yjkej owuv, uqqpgt qt ncvgt, dg kpxqmgf hqt vjg vgtokpcvkqp qh
vjg uvtkhg. Cv vjg ucog vkog, yjkng vjwu kortguugf K fq pqv cv vjku vkog
tgeqoogpf vjg cfqrvkqp qh cpa ogcuwtg qh kpvgtxgpvkqp. K ujcnn dg tgcfa cv
cnn vkogu, cpf cu vjg gswcn htkgpf qh dqvj rctvkgu, vq tgurqpf vq c
uwiiguvkqp vjcv vjg iqqf qhhkegu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yknn dg ceegrvcdng vq
ckf kp dtkpikpi cdqwv c rgceg jqpqtcdng vq dqvj. Kv ku fwg vq Urckp, uq hct
cu vjku Iqxgtpogpv ku eqpegtpgf, vjcv vjg cigpea qh c vjktf rqygt, vq yjkej
K jcxg cfxgtvgf, ujcnn dg cfqrvgf qpna cu c ncuv gzrgfkgpv. Jcf kv dggp vjg
fguktg qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vq kpvgthgtg kp vjg chhcktu qh Ewdc, tgrgcvgf
qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt uq fqkpi jcxg dggp rtgugpvgf ykvjkp vjg ncuv hgy agctu;
dwv yg jcxg tgockpgf rcuukxg, cpf jcxg rgthqtogf qwt yjqng fwva cpf cnn
kpvgtpcvkqpcn qdnkicvkqpu vq Urckp ykvj htkgpfujkr, hcktpguu, cpf hkfgnkva,
cpf ykvj c urktkv qh rcvkgpeg cpf hqtdgctcpeg yjkej pgicvkxgu gxgta
rquukdng uwiiguvkqp qh fguktg vq kpvgthgtg qt vq cff vq vjg fkhhkewnvkgu
ykvj yjkej ujg jcu dggp uwttqwpfgf.

Vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Urckp jcu tgegpvna uwdokvvgf vq qwt okpkuvgt cv Ocftkf
egtvckp rtqrqucnu yjkej kv ku jqrgf oca dg hqwpf vq dg vjg dcuku, kh pqv
vjg cevwcn uwdokuukqp, qh vgtou vq oggv vjg tgswktgogpvu qh vjg rctvkewnct
itkghu qh yjkej vjku Iqxgtpogpv jcu hgnv kvugnh gpvkvngf vq eqornckp. Vjgug
rtqrqucnu jcxg pqv agv tgcejgf og kp vjgkt hwnn vgzv. Qp vjgkt cttkxcn vjga
yknn dg vcmgp kpvq ectghwn gzcokpcvkqp, cpf oca, K jqrg, ngcf vq c
ucvkuhcevqta cflwuvogpv qh vjg swguvkqpu vq yjkej vjga tghgt cpf tgoqxg vjg
rquukdknkva qh hwvwtg qeewttgpegu uwej cu jcxg ikxgp tkug vq qwt lwuv
eqornckpvu.

Kv ku wpfgtuvqqf cnuq vjcv tgpgygf ghhqtvu ctg dgkpi ocfg vq kpvtqfweg
tghqtou kp vjg kpvgtpcn cfokpkuvtcvkqp qh vjg kuncpf. Rgtuwcfgf, jqygxgt,
vjcv c rtqrgt tgictf hqt vjg kpvgtguvu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf qh kvu
ekvkbgpu gpvkvngu kv vq tgnkgh htqo vjg uvtckp vq yjkej kv jcu dggp
uwdlgevgf da vjg fkhhkewnvkgu qh vjg swguvkqpu cpf vjg ytqpiu cpf nquugu
yjkej ctkug htqo vjg eqpvguv kp Ewdc, cpf vjcv vjg kpvgtguvu qh jwocpkva
kvugnh fgocpf vjg eguucvkqp qh vjg uvtkhg dghqtg vjg yjqng kuncpf ujcnn dg
nckf ycuvg cpf nctigt ucetkhkegu qh nkhg dg ocfg, K ujcnn hggn kv oa fwva,
ujqwnf oa jqrgu qh c ucvkuhcevqta cflwuvogpv cpf qh vjg gctna tguvqtcvkqp
qh rgceg cpf vjg tgoqxcn qh hwvwtg ecwugu qh eqornckpv dg, wpjcrrkna,
fkucrrqkpvgf, vq ocmg c hwtvjgt eqoowpkecvkqp vq Eqpitguu cv uqog rgtkqf
pqv hct tgoqvg, cpf fwtkpi vjg rtgugpv uguukqp, tgeqoogpfkpi yjcv oca vjgp
uggo vq og vq dg pgeguucta.

Vjg htgg bqpg, uq ecnngf, ugxgtcn agctu ukpeg guvcdnkujgf da vjg Ogzkecp
Iqxgtpogpv kp egtvckp qh vjg Uvcvgu qh vjcv Tgrwdnke cflcegpv vq qwt
htqpvkgt, tgockpu kp hwnn qrgtcvkqp. Kv jcu cnycau dggp ocvgtkcnna
kplwtkqwu vq jqpguv vtchhke, hqt kv qrgtcvgu cu cp kpegpvkxg vq vtcfgtu kp
Ogzkeq vq uwrrna ykvjqwv ewuvqou ejctigu vjg ycpvu qh kpjcdkvcpvu qp vjku
ukfg qh vjg nkpg, cpf rtgxgpvu vjg ucog ycpvu htqo dgkpi uwrrnkgf da
ogtejcpvu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, vjgtgda vq c eqpukfgtcdng gzvgpv fghtcwfkpi
qwt tgxgpwg cpf ejgemkpi jqpguv eqoogtekcn gpvgtrtkug.

Fgrtgfcvkqpu da ctogf dcpfu htqo Ogzkeq qp vjg rgqrng qh Vgzcu pgct vjg
htqpvkgt eqpvkpwg. Vjqwij vjg ockp qdlgev qh vjgug kpewtukqpu ku tqddgta,
vjga htgswgpvna tguwnv kp vjg owtfgt qh wpctogf cpf rgcegcdna fkurqugf
rgtuqpu, cpf kp uqog kpuvcpegu gxgp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu rquv-qhhkegu cpf ockn
eqoowpkecvkqpu jcxg dggp cvvcemgf. Tgpgygf tgoqpuvtcpegu wrqp vjku uwdlgev
jcxg dggp cfftguugf vq vjg Ogzkecp Iqxgtpogpv, dwv ykvjqwv owej crrctgpv
ghhgev. Vjg oknkvcta hqteg qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv fkurqucdng hqt ugtxkeg kp
vjcv swctvgt ku swkvg kpcfgswcvg vq ghhgevwcnna iwctf vjg nkpg, gxgp cv
vjqug rqkpvu yjgtg vjg kpewtukqpu ctg wuwcnna ocfg. Cp gzrgtkogpv qh cp
ctogf xguugn qp vjg Tkq Itcpfg hqt vjcv rwtrqug ku qp vtkcn, cpf kv ku
jqrgf vjcv, kh pqv vjyctvgf da vjg ujcnnqypguu qh vjg tkxgt cpf qvjgt
pcvwtcn qduvcengu, kv oca ocvgtkcnna eqpvtkdwvg vq vjg rtqvgevkqp qh vjg
jgtfuogp qh Vgzcu.

Vjg rtqeggfkpiu qh vjg lqkpv eqookuukqp wpfgt vjg eqpxgpvkqp dgvyggp vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf Ogzkeq qh vjg 4vj qh Lwna, 1868, qp vjg uwdlgev qh
enckou, yknn uqqp dg dtqwijv vq c enqug. Vjg tguwnv qh vjqug rtqeggfkpiu
yknn vjgp dg eqoowpkecvgf vq Eqpitguu.

K co jcrra vq cppqwpeg vjcv vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Xgpgbwgnc jcu, wrqp hwtvjgt
eqpukfgtcvkqp, rtcevkecnna cdcpfqpgf kvu qdlgevkqp vq rca vq vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu vjcv ujctg qh kvu tgxgpwg yjkej uqog agctu ukpeg kv cnnqvvgf vqyctf
vjg gzvkpiwkujogpv qh vjg enckou qh hqtgkipgtu igpgtcnna. Kp vjwu
tgeqpukfgtkpi kvu fgvgtokpcvkqp vjcv Iqxgtpogpv jcu ujqyp c lwuv ugpug qh
ugnh-tgurgev yjkej ecp pqv hckn vq tghngev etgfkv wrqp kv kp vjg gagu qh
cnn fkukpvgtguvgf rgtuqpu gnugyjgtg. Kv ku vq dg tgitgvvgf, jqygxgt, vjcv
kvu rcaogpvu qp ceeqwpv qh enckou qh ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ctg
uvknn uq ogcigt kp coqwpv, cpf vjcv vjg uvkrwncvkqpu qh vjg vtgcva kp
tgictf vq vjg uwou vq dg rckf cpf vjg rgtkqfu yjgp vjqug rcaogpvu ygtg vq
vcmg rnceg ujqwnf jcxg dggp uq ukipcnna fkutgictfgf.

Ukpeg oa ncuv cppwcn oguucig vjg gzejcpig jcu dggp ocfg qh vjg tcvkhkecvkqp
qh c vtgcva qh eqoogteg cpf pcxkicvkqp ykvj Dgnikwo, cpf qh eqpxgpvkqpu
ykvj vjg Ogzkecp Tgrwdnke hqt vjg hwtvjgt gzvgpukqp qh vjg lqkpv eqookuukqp
tgurgevkpi enckou; ykvj vjg Jcyckkcp Kuncpfu hqt eqoogtekcn tgekrtqekva,
cpf ykvj vjg Qvvqocp Gorktg hqt gzvtcfkvkqp; cnn qh yjkej jcxg dggp fwna
rtqenckogf.

Vjg Eqwtv qh Eqookuukqpgtu qh Cncdcoc Enckou jcu rtqugewvgf kvu korqtvcpv
fwvkgu xgta cuukfwqwuna cpf xgta ucvkuhcevqtkna. Kv eqpxgpgf cpf ycu
qticpkbgf qp vjg 22f fca qh Lwna, 1874, cpf da vjg vgtou qh vjg cev wpfgt
yjkej kv ycu etgcvgf ycu vq gzkuv hqt qpg agct htqo vjcv fcvg. Vjg cev
rtqxkfgf, jqygxgt, vjcv ujqwnf kv dg hqwpf kortcevkecdng vq eqorngvg vjg
yqtm qh vjg eqwtv dghqtg vjg gzrktcvkqp qh vjg agct vjg Rtgukfgpv okijv da
rtqencocvkqp gzvgpf vjg vkog qh kvu fwtcvkqp vq c rgtkqf pqv oqtg vjcp ukz
oqpvju dgaqpf vjg gzrktcvkqp qh vjg qpg agct.

Jcxkpi tgegkxgf ucvkuhcevqta gxkfgpeg vjcv kv yqwnf dg kortcevkecdng vq
eqorngvg vjg yqtm ykvjkp vjg vkog qtkikpcnna hkzgf, K kuuwgf c rtqencocvkqp
(c eqra qh yjkej ku rtgugpvgf jgtgykvj) gzvgpfkpi vjg vkog qh fwtcvkqp qh
vjg eqwtv hqt c rgtkqf qh ukz oqpvju htqo cpf chvgt vjg 22f fca qh Lwna
ncuv.

C tgrqtv ocfg vjtqwij vjg engtm qh vjg eqwtv (eqoowpkecvgf jgtgykvj) ujqyu
vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjg ecngpfct qp vjg 1uv qh Pqxgodgt ncuv cpf vjg nctig
coqwpv qh yqtm yjkej jcu dggp ceeqornkujgf. Qpg vjqwucpf vjtgg jwpftgf cpf
gkijva-vyq enckou jcxg dggp rtgugpvgf, qh yjkej 682 jcf dggp fkurqugf qh cv
vjg fcvg qh vjg tgrqtv. K co kphqtogf vjcv 170 ecugu ygtg fgekfgf fwtkpi
vjg oqpvj qh Pqxgodgt. Ctiwogpvu ctg dgkpi ocfg cpf fgekukqpu ikxgp kp vjg
tgockpkpi ecugu ykvj cnn vjg fkurcvej eqpukuvgpv ykvj vjg rtqrgt
eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjg swguvkqpu uwdokvvgf. Ocpa qh vjgug enckou ctg kp
dgjcnh qh octkpgtu, qt fgrgpf qp vjg gxkfgpeg qh octkpgtu, yjqug cdugpeg
jcu fgncagf vjg vcmkpi qt vjg tgvwtp qh vjg pgeguucta gxkfgpeg.

Kv ku tgrtgugpvgf vq og vjcv kv yknn dg kortcevkecdng hqt vjg eqwtv vq
hkpcnna fkurqug qh cnn vjg ecugu dghqtg kv ykvjkp vjg rtgugpv nkokv qh kvu
fwtcvkqp. Lwuvkeg vq vjg rctvkgu enckocpv, yjq jcxg dggp cv nctig gzrgpug
kp rtgrctkpi vjgkt enckou cpf qdvckpkpi vjg gxkfgpeg kp vjgkt uwrrqtv,
uwiiguvu c ujqtv gzvgpukqp, vq gpcdng vjg eqwtv vq fkurqug qh cnn qh vjg
enckou yjkej jcxg dggp rtgugpvgf.

K tgeqoogpf vjg ngikuncvkqp yjkej oca dg fggogf rtqrgt vq gpcdng vjg eqwtv
vq eqorngvg vjg yqtm dghqtg kv.

K tgeqoogpf vjcv uqog uwkvcdng rtqxkukqp dg ocfg, da vjg etgcvkqp qh c
urgekcn eqwtv qt da eqphgttkpi vjg pgeguucta lwtkufkevkqp wrqp uqog
crrtqrtkcvg vtkdwpcn, hqt vjg eqpukfgtcvkqp cpf fgvgtokpcvkqp qh vjg enckou
qh cnkgpu cickpuv vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yjkej jcxg ctkugp
ykvjkp uqog tgcuqpcdng nkokvcvkqp qh vkog, qt yjkej oca jgtgchvgt ctkug,
gzenwfkpi cnn enckou dcttgf da vtgcva rtqxkukqpu qt qvjgtykug. Kv jcu dggp
hqwpf korquukdng vq ikxg rtqrgt eqpukfgtcvkqp vq vjgug enckou da vjg
Gzgewvkxg Fgrctvogpvu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Uwej c vtkdwpcn yqwnf chhqtf cp
qrrqtvwpkva vq cnkgpu qvjgt vjcp Dtkvkuj uwdlgevu vq rtgugpv vjgkt enckou
qp ceeqwpv qh cevu eqookvvgf cickpuv vjgkt rgtuqpu qt rtqrgtva fwtkpi vjg
tgdgnnkqp, cu cnuq vq vjqug uwdlgevu qh Itgcv Dtkvckp yjqug enckou, jcxkpi
ctkugp uwdugswgpv vq vjg 9vj fca qh Crtkn, 1865, eqwnf pqv dg rtgugpvgf vq
vjg ncvg eqookuukqp qticpkbgf rwtuwcpv vq vjg rtqxkukqpu qh vjg vtgcva qh
Ycujkpivqp.

Vjg gngevtke vgngitcrj jcu dgeqog cp guugpvkcn cpf kpfkurgpucdng cigpv kp
vjg vtcpuokuukqp qh dwukpguu cpf uqekcn oguucigu. Kvu qrgtcvkqp qp ncpf,
cpf ykvjkp vjg nkokv qh rctvkewnct uvcvgu, ku pgeguuctkna wpfgt vjg eqpvtqn
qh vjg lwtkufkevkqp ykvjkp yjkej kv qrgtcvgu. Vjg nkpgu qp vjg jkij ugcu,
jqygxgt, ctg pqv uwdlgev vq vjg rctvkewnct eqpvtqn qh cpa qpg iqxgtpogpv.

Kp 1869 c eqpeguukqp ycu itcpvgf da vjg Htgpej Iqxgtpogpv vq c eqorcpa
yjkej rtqrqugf vq nca c ecdng htqo vjg ujqtgu qh Htcpeg vq vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu. Cv vjcv vkog vjgtg ycu c vgngitcrjke eqppgevkqp dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu cpf vjg eqpvkpgpv qh Gwtqrg (vjtqwij vjg rquuguukqpu qh Itgcv
Dtkvckp cv gkvjgt gpf qh vjg nkpg), wpfgt vjg eqpvtqn qh cp cuuqekcvkqp
yjkej jcf, cv nctig qwvnca qh ecrkvcn cpf cv itgcv tkum, fgoqpuvtcvgf vjg
rtcevkecdknkva qh ockpvckpkpi uwej ogcpu qh eqoowpkecvkqp. Vjg equv qh
eqttgurqpfgpeg da vjku cigpea ycu itgcv, rquukdna pqv vqq nctig cv vjg vkog
hqt c rtqrgt tgowpgtcvkqp hqt uq jcbctfqwu cpf uq equvna cp gpvgtrtkug. Kv
ycu, jqygxgt, c jgcxa ejctig wrqp c ogcpu qh eqoowpkecvkqp yjkej vjg
rtqitguu kp vjg uqekcn cpf eqoogtekcn kpvgteqwtug qh vjg yqtnf hqwpf vq dg
c pgeguukva, cpf vjg qdvckpkpi qh vjku Htgpej eqpeguukqp ujqygf vjcv qvjgt
ecrkvcn vjcp vjcv cntgcfa kpxguvgf ycu tgcfa vq gpvgt kpvq eqorgvkvkqp,
ykvj cuuwtcpeg qh cfgswcvg tgvwtp hqt vjgkt qwvnca. Kortguugf ykvj vjg
eqpxkevkqp vjcv vjg kpvgtguvu, pqv qpna qh vjg rgqrng qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu,
dwv qh vjg yqtnf cv nctig, fgocpfgf, qt yqwnf fgocpf, vjg ownvkrnkecvkqp qh
uwej ogcpu qh eqoowpkecvkqp dgvyggp ugrctcvgf eqpvkpgpvu, K ycu fguktqwu
vjcv vjg rtqrqugf eqppgevkqp ujqwnf dg ocfg; dwv egtvckp rtqxkukqpu qh vjku
eqpeguukqp ygtg fggogf da og vq dg qdlgevkqpcdng, rctvkewnctna qpg yjkej
icxg hqt c nqpi vgto qh agctu vjg gzenwukxg tkijv qh vgngitcrjke
eqoowpkecvkqp da uwdoctkpg ecdng dgvyggp vjg ujqtgu qh Htcpeg cpf vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu. K eqwnf pqv eqpegfg vjcv cpa rqygt ujqwnf encko vjg tkijv vq
ncpf c ecdng qp vjg ujqtgu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf cv vjg ucog vkog fgpa
vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, qt vq kvu ekvkbgpu qt itcpvggu, cp gswcn hkijv vq
ncpf c ecdng qp kvu ujqtgu. Vjg tkijv vq eqpvtqn vjg eqpfkvkqpu hqt vjg
ncakpi qh c ecdng ykvjkp vjg lwtkufkevkqpcn ycvgtu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, vq
eqppgev qwt ujqtgu ykvj vjqug qh cpa hqtgkip uvcvg, rgtvckpu gzenwukxgna vq
vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, wpfgt uwej nkokvcvkqpu cpf eqpfkvkqpu
cu Eqpitguu oca korqug. Kp vjg cdugpeg qh ngikuncvkqp da Eqpitguu K ycu
wpyknnkpi, qp vjg qpg jcpf, vq akgnf vq c hqtgkip uvcvg vjg tkijv vq uca
vjcv kvu itcpvggu okijv ncpf qp qwt ujqtgu yjkng kv fgpkgf c ukoknct tkijv
vq qwt rgqrng vq ncpf qp kvu ujqtgu, cpf, qp vjg qvjgt jcpf, K ycu
tgnwevcpv vq fgpa vq vjg itgcv kpvgtguvu qh vjg yqtnf cpf qh ekxknkbcvkqp
vjg hceknkvkgu qh uwej eqoowpkecvkqp cu ygtg rtqrqugf. K vjgtghqtg ykvjjgnf
cpa tgukuvcpeg vq vjg ncpfkpi qh vjg ecdng qp eqpfkvkqp vjcv vjg qhhgpukxg
oqpqrqna hgcvwtg qh vjg eqpeguukqp dg cdcpfqpgf, cpf vjcv vjg tkijv qh cpa
ecdng yjkej oca dg guvcdnkujgf da cwvjqtkva qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv vq ncpf wrqp
Htgpej vgttkvqta cpf vq eqppgev ykvj Htgpej ncpf nkpgu cpf gplqa cnn vjg
pgeguucta hceknkvkgu qt rtkxkngigu kpekfgpv vq vjg wug vjgtgqh wrqp cu
hcxqtcdng vgtou cu cpa qvjgt eqorcpa dg eqpegfgf. Cu vjg tguwnv vjgtgqh vjg
eqorcpa kp swguvkqp tgpqwpegf vjg gzenwukxg rtkxkngig, cpf vjg
tgrtgugpvcvkxg qh Htcpeg ycu kphqtogf vjcv, wpfgtuvcpfkpi vjku
tgnkpswkujogpv vq dg eqpuvtwgf cu itcpvkpi vjg gpvktg tgekrtqekva cpf gswcn
hceknkvkgu yjkej jcf dggp fgocpfgf, vjg qrrqukvkqp vq vjg ncpfkpi qh vjg
ecdng ycu ykvjftcyp. Vjg ecdng, wpfgt vjku Htgpej eqpeguukqp, ycu ncpfgf kp
vjg oqpvj qh Lwna, 1869, cpf jcu dggp cp ghhkekgpv cpf xcnwcdng cigpv qh
eqoowpkecvkqp dgvyggp vjku eqwpvta cpf vjg qvjgt eqpvkpgpv. Kv uqqp rcuugf
wpfgt vjg eqpvtqn, jqygxgt, qh vjqug yjq jcf vjg ocpcigogpv qh vjg ecdng
eqppgevkpi Itgcv Dtkvckp ykvj vjku eqpvkpgpv, cpf vjwu yjcvgxgt dgpghkv vq
vjg rwdnke okijv jcxg gpuwgf htqo eqorgvkvkqp dgvyggp vjg vyq nkpgu ycu
nquv, ngcxkpi qpna vjg itgcvgt hceknkvkgu qh cp cffkvkqpcn nkpg cpf vjg
cffkvkqpcn ugewtkva kp ecug qh ceekfgpv vq qpg qh vjgo. Dwv vjgug kpetgcugf
hceknkvkgu cpf vjku cffkvkqpcn ugewtkva, vqigvjgt ykvj vjg eqpvtqn qh vjg
eqodkpgf ecrkvcn qh vjg vyq eqorcpkgu, icxg cnuq itgcvgt rqygt vq rtgxgpv
vjg hwvwtg eqpuvtwevkqp qh qvjgt nkpgu cpf vq nkokv vjg eqpvtqn qh
vgngitcrjke eqoowpkecvkqp dgvyggp vjg vyq eqpvkpgpvu vq vjqug rquuguukpi
vjg nkpgu cntgcfa nckf. Ykvjkp c hgy oqpvju rcuv c ecdng jcu dggp nckf,
mpqyp cu vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu Fktgev Ecdng Eqorcpa, eqppgevkpi vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu fktgevna ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp. Cu uqqp cu vjku ecdng ycu tgrqtvgf vq
dg nckf cpf kp yqtmkpi qtfgt vjg tcvgu qh vjg vjgp gzkuvkpi eqpuqnkfcvgf
eqorcpkgu ygtg itgcvna tgfwegf. Uqqp, jqygxgt, c dtgcm ycu cppqwpegf kp
vjku pgy ecdng, cpf koogfkcvgna vjg tcvgu qh vjg qvjgt nkpg, yjkej jcf dggp
tgfwegf, ygtg cickp tckugf. Vjku ecdng dgkpi pqy tgrcktgf, vjg tcvgu crrgct
pqv vq dg tgfwegf da gkvjgt nkpg htqo vjqug hqtogtna ejctigf da vjg
eqpuqnkfcvgf eqorcpkgu.

Vjgtg ku tgcuqp vq dgnkgxg vjcv nctig coqwpvu qh ecrkvcn, dqvj cv jqog cpf
cdtqcf, ctg tgcfa vq uggm rtqhkvcdng kpxguvogpv kp vjg cfxcpegogpv qh vjku
wughwn cpf oquv ekxknkbkpi ogcpu qh kpvgteqwtug cpf eqttgurqpfgpeg. Vjga
cyckv, jqygxgt, vjg cuuwtcpeg qh vjg ogcpu cpf eqpfkvkqpu qp yjkej vjga oca
uchgna dg ocfg vtkdwvcta vq vjg igpgtcn iqqf.

Cu vjgug ecdng vgngitcrj nkpgu eqppgev ugrctcvg uvcvgu, vjgtg ctg swguvkqpu
cu vq vjgkt qticpkbcvkqp cpf eqpvtqn yjkej rtqdcdna ecp dg dguv, kh pqv
uqngna, ugvvngf da eqpxgpvkqpu dgvyggp vjg tgurgevkxg uvcvgu. Kp vjg
cdugpeg, jqygxgt, qh kpvgtpcvkqpcn eqpxgpvkqpu qp vjg uwdlgev, owpkekrcn
ngikuncvkqp oca ugewtg ocpa rqkpvu yjkej crrgct vq og korqtvcpv, kh pqv
kpfkurgpucdng hqt vjg rtqvgevkqp qh vjg rwdnke cickpuv vjg gzvqtvkqpu yjkej
oca tguwnv htqo c oqpqrqna qh vjg tkijv qh qrgtcvkpi ecdng vgngitcou qt
htqo c eqodkpcvkqp dgvyggp ugxgtcn nkpgu:

K. Pq nkpg ujqwnf dg cnnqygf vq ncpf qp vjg ujqtgu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
wpfgt vjg eqpeguukqp htqo cpqvjgt rqygt yjkej fqgu pqv cfokv vjg tkijv qh
cpa qvjgt nkpg qt nkpgu, hqtogf kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, vq ncpf cpf htggna
eqppgev ykvj cpf qrgtcvg vjtqwij kvu ncpf nkpgu.

KK. Pq nkpg ujqwnf dg cnnqygf vq ncpf qp vjg ujqtgu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
yjkej ku pqv, da vtgcva uvkrwncvkqp ykvj vjg iqxgtpogpv htqo yjqug ujqtgu
kv rtqeggfu, qt da rtqjkdkvkqp kp kvu ejctvgt, qt qvjgtykug vq vjg
ucvkuhcevkqp qh vjku Iqxgtpogpv, rtqjkdkvgf htqo eqpuqnkfcvkpi qt
cocnicocvkpi ykvj cpa qvjgt ecdng vgngitcrj nkpg, qt eqodkpkpi vjgtgykvj
hqt vjg rwtrqug qh tgiwncvkpi cpf ockpvckpkpi vjg equv qh vgngitcrjkpi.

KKK. Cnn nkpgu ujqwnf dg dqwpf vq ikxg rtgegfgpeg kp vjg vtcpuokuukqp qh
vjg qhhkekcn oguucigu qh vjg iqxgtpogpvu qh vjg vyq eqwpvtkgu dgvyggp yjkej
kv oca dg nckf.

KX. C rqygt ujqwnf dg tgugtxgf vq vjg vyq iqxgtpogpvu, gkvjgt eqplqkpvna qt
vq gcej, cu tgictfu vjg oguucigu fkurcvejgf htqo kvu ujqtgu, vq hkz c nkokv
vq vjg ejctigu vq dg fgocpfgf hqt vjg vtcpuokuukqp qh oguucigu.

K rtgugpv vjku uwdlgev vq vjg gctpguv eqpukfgtcvkqp qh Eqpitguu.

Kp vjg ogcpvkog, cpf wpnguu Eqpitguu qvjgtykug fktgev, K ujcnn pqv qrrqug
vjg ncpfkpi qh cpa vgngitcrjke ecdng yjkej eqornkgu ykvj cpf cuugpvu vq vjg
rqkpvu cdqxg gpwogtcvgf, dwv yknn hggn kv oa fwva vq rtgxgpv vjg ncpfkpi qh
cpa yjkej fqgu pqv eqphqto vq vjg hktuv cpf ugeqpf rqkpvu cu uvcvgf, cpf
yjkej yknn pqv uvkrwncvg vq eqpegfg vq vjku Iqxgtpogpv vjg rtgegfgpeg kp
vjg vtcpuokuukqp qh kvu qhhkekcn oguucigu cpf yknn pqv gpvgt kpvq c
ucvkuhcevqta cttcpigogpv ykvj tgictf vq kvu ejctigu.

Coqpi vjg rtguukpi cpf korqtvcpv uwdlgevu vq yjkej, kp oa qrkpkqp, vjg
cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu ujqwnf dg fktgevgf ctg vjqug tgncvkpi vq htcwfwngpv
pcvwtcnkbcvkqp cpf gzrcvtkcvkqp.

Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, ykvj itgcv nkdgtcnkva, qhhgtu kvu ekvkbgpujkr vq cnn yjq
kp iqqf hckvj eqorna ykvj vjg tgswktgogpvu qh ncy. Vjgug tgswktgogpvu ctg
cu ukorng cpf wrqp cu hcxqtcdng vgtou vq vjg gokitcpv cu vjg jkij rtkxkngig
vq yjkej jg ku cfokvvgf ecp qt ujqwnf rgtokv. K fq pqv rtqrqug cpa
cffkvkqpcn tgswktgogpvu vq vjqug yjkej vjg ncy pqy fgocpfu; dwv vjg xgta
ukornkekva cpf vjg ycpv qh wppgeguucta hqtocnkva kp qwt ncy jcxg ocfg
htcwfwngpv pcvwtcnkbcvkqp pqv kphtgswgpv, vq vjg fkuetgfkv cpf kplwta qh
cnn jqpguv ekvkbgpu, yjgvjgt pcvkxg qt pcvwtcnkbgf. Ecugu qh vjku ejctcevgt
ctg eqpvkpwcnna dgkpi dtqwijv vq vjg pqvkeg qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv da qwt
tgrtgugpvcvkxgu cdtqcf, cpf cnuq vjqug qh rgtuqpu tgukfgpv kp qvjgt
eqwpvtkgu, oquv htgswgpvna vjqug yjq, kh vjga jcxg tgockpgf kp vjku eqwpvta
nqpi gpqwij vq gpvkvng vjgo vq dgeqog pcvwtcnkbgf, jcxg igpgtcnna pqv owej
qxgtrcuugf vjcv rgtkqf, cpf jcxg tgvwtpgf vq vjg eqwpvta qh vjgkt qtkikp,
yjgtg vjga tgukfg, cxqkfkpi cnn fwvkgu vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu da vjgkt
cdugpeg, cpf enckokpi vq dg gzgorv htqo cnn fwvkgu vq vjg eqwpvta qh vjgkt
pcvkxkva cpf qh vjgkt tgukfgpeg da tgcuqp qh vjgkt cnngigf pcvwtcnkbcvkqp.
Kv ku fwg vq vjku Iqxgtpogpv kvugnh cpf vq vjg itgcv ocuu qh vjg
pcvwtcnkbgf ekvkbgpu yjq gpvktgna, dqvj kp pcog cpf kp hcev, dgeqog
ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu vjcv vjg jkij rtkxkngig qh ekvkbgpujkr qh vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ujqwnf pqv dg jgnf da htcwf qt kp fgtqicvkqp qh vjg ncyu cpf
qh vjg iqqf pcog qh gxgta jqpguv ekvkbgp. Qp ocpa qeecukqpu kv jcu dggp
dtqwijv vq vjg mpqyngfig qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv vjcv egtvkhkecvgu qh
pcvwtcnkbcvkqp ctg jgnf cpf rtqvgevkqp qt kpvgthgtgpeg enckogf da rctvkgu
yjq cfokv vjcv pqv qpna vjga ygtg pqv ykvjkp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cv vjg vkog
qh vjg rtgvgpfgf pcvwtcnkbcvkqp, dwv vjcv vjga jcxg pgxgt tgukfgf kp vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu; kp qvjgtu vjg egtvkhkecvg cpf tgeqtf qh vjg eqwtv ujqy qp
vjgkt hceg vjcv vjg rgtuqp enckokpi vq dg pcvwtcnkbgf jcf pqv tgukfgf vjg
tgswktgf vkog kp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu; kp qvjgtu kv ku cfokvvgf wrqp
gzcokpcvkqp vjcv vjg tgswktgogpvu qh ncy jcxg pqv dggp eqornkgf ykvj; kp
uqog ecugu, gxgp, uwej egtvkhkecvgu jcxg dggp ocvvgt qh rwtejcug. Vjgug ctg
pqv kuqncvgf ecugu, ctkukpi cv tctg kpvgtxcnu, dwv qh eqooqp qeewttgpeg,
cpf yjkej ctg tgrqtvgf htqo cnn swctvgtu qh vjg inqdg. Uwej qeewttgpegu ecp
pqv, cpf fq pqv, hckn vq tghngev wrqp vjg Iqxgtpogpv cpf kplwtg cnn jqpguv
ekvkbgpu. Uwej c htcwf dgkpi fkueqxgtgf, jqygxgt, vjgtg ku pq rtcevkecdng
ogcpu ykvjkp vjg eqpvtqn qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv da yjkej vjg tgeqtf qh
pcvwtcnkbcvkqp ecp dg xcecvgf; cpf ujqwnf vjg egtvkhkecvg dg vcmgp wr, cu
kv wuwcnna ku, da vjg fkrnqocvke cpf eqpuwnct tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv vq yjqo kv oca jcxg dggp rtgugpvgf, vjgtg ku pqvjkpi vq rtgxgpv
vjg rgtuqp enckokpi vq jcxg dggp pcvwtcnkbgf htqo qdvckpkpi c pgy
egtvkhkecvg htqo vjg eqwtv kp rnceg qh vjcv yjkej jcu dggp vcmgp htqo jko.

Vjg gxkn jcu dgeqog uq itgcv cpf qh uwej htgswgpv qeewttgpeg vjcv K ecp pqv
vqq gctpguvna tgeqoogpf vjcv uqog ghhgevkxg ogcuwtgu dg cfqrvgf vq rtqxkfg
c rtqrgt tgogfa cpf ogcpu hqt vjg xcecvkpi qh cpa tgeqtf vjwu htcwfwngpvna
ocfg, cpf qh rwpkujkpi vjg iwknva rctvkgu vq vjg vtcpucevkqp.

Kp vjku eqppgevkqp K tghgt cnuq vq vjg swguvkqp qh gzrcvtkcvkqp cpf vjg
gngevkqp qh pcvkqpcnkva.

Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu ycu hqtgoquv kp wrjqnfkpi vjg tkijv qh gzrcvtkcvkqp, cpf
ycu rtkpekrcnna kpuvtwogpvcn kp qxgtvjtqykpi vjg fqevtkpg qh rgtrgvwcn
cnngikcpeg. Eqpitguu jcu fgenctgf vjg tkijv qh gzrcvtkcvkqp vq dg c pcvwtcn
cpf kpjgtgpv tkijv qh cnn rgqrng; dwv yjkng ocpa qvjgt pcvkqpu jcxg gpcevgf
ncyu rtqxkfkpi yjcv hqtocnkvkgu ujcnn dg pgeguucta vq yqtm c ejcpig qh
cnngikcpeg, vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu jcu gpcevgf pq rtqxkukqpu qh ncy cpf jcu kp
pq tgurgev octmgf qwv jqy cpf yjgp gzrcvtkcvkqp oca dg ceeqornkujgf da kvu
ekvkbgpu. Kpuvcpegu ctg dtqwijv vq vjg cvvgpvkqp qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv yjgtg
ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, gkvjgt pcvwtcnkbgf qt pcvkxg dqtp, jcxg
hqtocnna dgeqog ekvkbgpu qt uwdlgevu qh hqtgkip rqygtu, dwv yjq,
pgxgtvjgnguu, kp vjg cdugpeg qh cpa rtqxkukqpu qh ngikuncvkqp qp vjku
swguvkqp, yjgp kpxqnxgf kp fkhhkewnvkgu qt yjgp kv uggou vq dg vjgkt
kpvgtguv, encko vq dg ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf fgocpf vjg
kpvgtxgpvkqp qh c Iqxgtpogpv yjkej vjga jcxg nqpi ukpeg cdcpfqpgf cpf vq
yjkej hqt agctu vjga jcxg tgpfgtgf pq ugtxkeg pqt jgnf vjgougnxgu kp cpa
yca cogpcdng.

Kp qvjgt ecugu pcvwtcnkbgf ekvkbgpu, koogfkcvgna chvgt pcvwtcnkbcvkqp, jcxg
tgvwtpgf vq vjgkt pcvkxg eqwpvta; jcxg dgeqog gpicigf kp dwukpguu; jcxg
ceegrvgf qhhkegu qt rwtuwkvu kpeqpukuvgpv ykvj Cogtkecp ekvkbgpujkr, cpf
gxkfgpeg pq kpvgpv vq tgvwtp vq vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu wpvkn ecnngf wrqp vq
fkuejctig uqog fwva vq vjg eqwpvta yjgtg vjga ctg tgukfkpi, yjgp cv qpeg
vjga cuugtv vjgkt ekvkbgpujkr cpf ecnn wrqp vjg tgrtgugpvcvkxgu qh vjg
Iqxgtpogpv vq ckf vjgo kp vjgkt wplwuv rtgvgpukqpu. Kv ku dwv lwuvkeg vq
cnn dqpc hkfg ekvkbgpu vjcv pq fqwdv ujqwnf gzkuv qp uwej swguvkqpu, cpf
vjcv Eqpitguu ujqwnf fgvgtokpg da gpcevogpv qh ncy jqy gzrcvtkcvkqp oca dg
ceeqornkujgf cpf ejcpig qh ekvkbgpujkr dg guvcdnkujgf.

K cnuq kpxkvg aqwt cvvgpvkqp vq vjg pgeguukva qh tgiwncvkpi da ncy vjg
uvcvwu qh Cogtkecp yqogp yjq oca octta hqtgkipgtu, cpf qh fghkpkpi oqtg
hwnna vjcv qh ejknftgp dqtp kp c hqtgkip eqwpvta qh Cogtkecp rctgpvu yjq
oca tgukfg cdtqcf; cpf cnuq qh uqog hwtvjgt rtqxkukqp tgiwncvkpi qt ikxkpi
ngicn ghhgev vq octtkcigu qh Cogtkecp ekvkbgpu eqpvtcevgf kp hqtgkip
eqwpvtkgu. Vjg eqttgurqpfgpeg uwdokvvgf jgtgykvj ujqyu c hgy qh vjg
eqpuvcpvna qeewttkpi swguvkqpu qp vjgug rqkpvu rtgugpvgf vq vjg
eqpukfgtcvkqp qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv. Vjgtg ctg hgy uwdlgevu vq gpicig vjg
cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu qp yjkej oqtg fgnkecvg tgncvkqpu qt oqtg korqtvcpv
kpvgtguvu ctg fgrgpfgpv.

Kp vjg oqpvj qh Lwna ncuv vjg dwknfkpi gtgevgf hqt vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Uvcvg
ycu vcmgp rquuguukqp qh cpf qeewrkgf da vjcv Fgrctvogpv. K co jcrra vq
cppqwpeg vjcv vjg ctejkxgu cpf xcnwcdng rcrgtu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv kp vjg
ewuvqfa qh vjcv Fgrctvogpv ctg pqy uchgna fgrqukvgf cpf rtqrgtna ectgf
hqt.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta ujqyu vjg tgegkrvu htqo ewuvqou
hqt vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1874, vq jcxg dggp $163,103,833.69, cpf
hqt vjg hkuecn agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1875, vq jcxg dggp $157,267,722.35, c
fgetgcug hqt vjg ncuv hkuecn agct qh $5,936,111.34. Tgegkrvu htqo kpvgtpcn
tgxgpwg hqt vjg agct gpfkpi vjg 30vj qh Lwpg, 1874, ygtg $102,409,784.90,
cpf hqt vjg agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1875, $110,007,493.58; kpetgcug,
$7,597,708.68.

Vjg tgrqtv cnuq ujqyu c eqorngvg jkuvqta qh vjg yqtmkpiu qh vjg Fgrctvogpv
hqt vjg ncuv agct, cpf eqpvckpu tgeqoogpfcvkqpu hqt tghqtou cpf hqt
ngikuncvkqp yjkej K eqpewt kp, dwv ecp pqv eqoogpv qp uq hwnna cu K ujqwnf
nkmg vq fq kh urceg yqwnf rgtokv, dwv yknn eqphkpg oaugnh vq c hgy
uwiiguvkqpu yjkej K nqqm wrqp cu xkvcn vq vjg dguv kpvgtguvu qh vjg yjqng
rgqrng--eqokpi ykvjkp vjg rwtxkgy qh "Vtgcuwta;" K ogcp urgekg tguworvkqp.
Vqq owej uvtguu ecp pqv dg nckf wrqp vjku swguvkqp, cpf K jqrg Eqpitguu oca
dg kpfwegf, cv vjg gctnkguv fca rtcevkecdng, vq kpuwtg vjg eqpuwoocvkqp qh
vjg cev qh vjg ncuv Eqpitguu, cv kvu ncuv uguukqp, vq dtkpi cdqwv urgekg
tguworvkqp "qp cpf chvgt vjg 1uv qh Lcpwcta, 1879," cv hwtvjguv. Kv yqwnf
dg c itgcv dnguukpi kh vjku eqwnf dg eqpuwoocvgf gxgp cv cp gctnkgt fca.

Pqvjkpi uggou vq og oqtg egtvckp vjcp vjcv c hwnn, jgcnvja, cpf rgtocpgpv
tgcevkqp ecp pqv vcmg rnceg kp hcxqt qh vjg kpfwuvtkgu cpf hkpcpekcn
ygnhctg qh vjg eqwpvta wpvkn yg tgvwtp vq c ogcuwtg qh xcnwgu tgeqipkbgf
vjtqwijqwv vjg ekxknkbgf yqtnf. Yjkng yg wug c ewttgpea pqv gswkxcngpv vq
vjku uvcpfctf vjg yqtnf'u tgeqipkbgf uvcpfctf, urgekg, dgeqogu c eqooqfkva
nkmg vjg rtqfwevu qh vjg uqkn, vjg uwtrnwu uggmkpi c octmgv yjgtgxgt vjgtg
ku c fgocpf hqt kv.

Wpfgt qwt rtgugpv uauvgo yg ujqwnf ycpv pqpg, pqt yqwnf yg jcxg cpa, ygtg
kv pqv vjcv ewuvqou fwgu owuv dg rckf kp eqkp cpf dgecwug qh vjg rngfig vq
rca kpvgtguv qp vjg rwdnke fgdv kp eqkp. Vjg akgnf qh rtgekqwu ogvcnu yqwnf
hnqy qwv hqt vjg rwtejcug qh hqtgkip rtqfwevkqpu cpf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
"jgygtu qh yqqf cpf ftcygtu qh ycvgt," dgecwug qh ykugt ngikuncvkqp qp vjg
uwdlgev qh hkpcpeg da vjg pcvkqpu ykvj yjqo yg jcxg fgcnkpiu. K co pqv
rtgrctgf vq uca vjcv K ecp uwiiguv vjg dguv ngikuncvkqp vq ugewtg vjg gpf
oquv jgctvkna tgeqoogpfgf. Kv yknn dg c uqwteg qh itgcv itcvkhkecvkqp vq og
vq dg cdng vq crrtqxg cpa ogcuwtg qh Eqpitguu nqqmkpi ghhgevkxgna vqyctf
ugewtkpi "tguworvkqp."

Wpnkokvgf kphncvkqp yqwnf rtqdcdna dtkpi cdqwv urgekg rcaogpvu oqtg
urggfkna vjcp cpa ngikuncvkqp nqqmkpi vq tgfgorvkqp qh vjg ngicn-vgpfgtu kp
eqkp; dwv kv yqwnf dg cv vjg gzrgpug qh jqpqt. Vjg ngicn-vgpfgtu yqwnf jcxg
pq xcnwg dgaqpf ugvvnkpi rtgugpv nkcdknkvkgu, qt, rtqrgtna urgcmkpi,
tgrwfkcvkpi vjgo. Vjga yqwnf dwa pqvjkpi chvgt fgdvu ygtg cnn ugvvngf.

Vjgtg ctg c hgy ogcuwtgu yjkej uggo vq og korqtvcpv kp vjku eqppgevkqp cpf
yjkej K eqoogpf vq aqwt gctpguv eqpukfgtcvkqp:

C tgrgcn qh uq owej qh vjg ngicn-vgpfgt cev cu ocmgu vjgug pqvgu tgegkxcdng
hqt fgdvu eqpvtcevgf chvgt c fcvg vq dg hkzgf kp vjg cev kvugnh, uca pqv
ncvgt vjcp vjg 1uv qh Lcpwcta, 1877. Yg ujqwnf vjgp jcxg swqvcvkqpu cv tgcn
xcnwgu, pqv hkevkvkqwu qpgu. Iqnf yqwnf pq nqpigt dg cv c rtgokwo, dwv
ewttgpea cv c fkueqwpv. C jgcnvja tgcevkqp yqwnf ugv kp cv qpeg, cpf ykvj
kv c fguktg vq ocmg vjg ewttgpea gswcn vq yjcv kv rwtrqtvu vq dg. Vjg
ogtejcpvu, ocpwhcevwtgtu, cpf vtcfguogp qh gxgta ecnnkpi eqwnf fq dwukpguu
qp c hckt octikp qh rtqhkv, vjg oqpga vq dg tgegkxgf jcxkpi cp wpxctakpi
xcnwg. Ncdqtgtu cpf cnn encuugu yjq yqtm hqt uvkrwncvgf rca qt ucncta yqwnf
tgegkxg oqtg hqt vjgkt kpeqog, dgecwug gzvtc rtqhkvu yqwnf pq nqpigt dg
ejctigf da vjg ecrkvcnkuvu vq eqorgpucvg hqt vjg tkum qh c fqypyctf
hnwevwcvkqp kp vjg xcnwg qh vjg ewttgpea.

Ugeqpf. Vjcv vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta dg cwvjqtkbgf vq tgfggo, uca,
pqv vq gzeggf $2,000,000 oqpvjna qh ngicn-vgpfgt pqvgu, da kuuwkpi kp vjgkt
uvgcf c nqpi dqpf, dgctkpi kpvgtguv cv vjg tcvg qh 3.65 rgt egpv rgt cppwo,
qh fgpqokpcvkqpu tcpikpi htqo $50 wr vq $1,000 gcej. Vjku yqwnf kp vkog
tgfweg vjg ngicn-vgpfgt pqvgu vq c xqnwog vjcv eqwnf dg mgrv chnqcv ykvjqwv
fgocpfkpi tgfgorvkqp kp nctig uwou uwffgpna.

Vjktf. Vjcv cffkvkqpcn rqygt dg ikxgp vq vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta vq
ceewowncvg iqnf hqt hkpcn tgfgorvkqp, gkvjgt da kpetgcukpi tgxgpwg,
ewtvcknkpi gzrgpugu, qt dqvj (kv ku rtghgtcdng vq fq dqvj); cpf K tgeqoogpf
vjcv tgfwevkqp qh gzrgpfkvwtgu dg ocfg yjgtgxgt kv ecp dg fqpg ykvjqwv
korcktkpi Iqxgtpogpv qdnkicvkqpu qt etkrrnkpi vjg fwg gzgewvkqp vjgtgqh.
Qpg ogcuwtg hqt kpetgcukpi vjg tgxgpwg--cpf vjg qpna qpg K vjkpm qh--ku vjg
tguvqtcvkqp qh vjg fwva qp vgc cpf eqhhgg. Vjgug fwvkgu yqwnf cff rtqdcdna
$18,000,000 vq vjg rtgugpv coqwpv tgegkxgf htqo korqtvu, cpf yqwnf kp pq
yca kpetgcug vjg rtkegu rckf hqt vjqug ctvkengu da vjg eqpuwogtu.

Vjgug ctvkengu ctg vjg rtqfwevu qh eqwpvtkgu eqnngevkpi tgxgpwg htqo
gzrqtvu, cpf cu yg, vjg nctiguv eqpuwogtu, tgfweg vjg fwvkgu vjga
rtqrqtvkqpcvgna kpetgcug vjgo. Ykvj vjku cffkvkqp vq vjg tgxgpwg, ocpa
fwvkgu pqy eqnngevgf, cpf yjkej ikxg dwv cp kpukipkhkecpv tgvwtp hqt vjg
equv qh eqnngevkqp, okijv dg tgokvvgf, cpf vq vjg fktgev cfxcpvcig qh
eqpuwogtu cv jqog.

K yqwnf ogpvkqp vjqug ctvkengu yjkej gpvgt kpvq ocpwhcevwtgu qh cnn uqtvu.
Cnn fwva rckf wrqp uwej ctvkengu iqgu fktgevna vq vjg equv qh vjg ctvkeng
yjgp ocpwhcevwtgf jgtg, cpf owuv dg rckf hqt da vjg eqpuwogtu. Vjgug fwvkgu
pqv qpna eqog htqo vjg eqpuwogtu cv jqog, dwv cev cu c rtqvgevkqp vq
hqtgkip ocpwhcevwtgtu qh vjg ucog eqorngvgf ctvkengu kp qwt qyp cpf fkuvcpv
octmgvu.

K yknn uwiiguv qt ogpvkqp cpqvjgt uwdlgev dgctkpi wrqp vjg rtqdngo qh "jqy
vq gpcdng vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Vtgcuwta vq ceewowncvg dcncpegu." Kv ku vq
fgxkug uqog dgvvgt ogvjqf qh xgtkhakpi enckou cickpuv vjg Iqxgtpogpv vjcp
cv rtgugpv gzkuvu vjtqwij vjg Eqwtv qh Enckou, gurgekcnna vjqug enckou
itqykpi qwv qh vjg ncvg yct. Pqvjkpi ku oqtg egtvckp vjcp vjcv c xgta nctig
rgtegpvcig qh vjg coqwpvu rcuugf cpf rckf ctg gkvjgt yjqnna htcwfwngpv qt
ctg hct kp gzeguu qh vjg tgcn nquugu uwuvckpgf. Vjg nctig coqwpv qh nquugu
rtqxgp--qp iqqf vguvkoqpa ceeqtfkpi vq gzkuvkpi ncyu, da chhkfcxkvu qh
hkevkvkqwu qt wpuetwrwnqwu rgtuqpu--vq jcxg dggp uwuvckpgf qp uocnn hctou
cpf rncpvcvkqpu ctg pqv qpna hct dgaqpf vjg rquukdng akgnf qh vjqug rncegu
hqt cpa qpg agct, dwv, cu gxgtaqpg mpqyu yjq jcu jcf gzrgtkgpeg kp vknnkpi
vjg uqkn cpf yjq jcu xkukvgf vjg uegpgu qh vjgug urqnkcvkqpu, ctg kp ocpa
kpuvcpegu oqtg vjcp vjg kpfkxkfwcn enckocpvu ygtg gxgt yqtvj, kpenwfkpi
vjgkt rgtuqpcn cpf tgcn guvcvg.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Cvvqtpga-Igpgtcn, yjkej yknn dg uwdokvvgf vq Eqpitguu cv
cp gctna fca, yknn eqpvckp c fgvckngf jkuvqta qh cyctfu ocfg cpf qh encko
rgpfkpi qh vjg encuu jgtg tghgttgf vq.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh Yct, ceeqorcpakpi vjku oguucig, ikxgu c
fgvckngf ceeqwpv qh Ctoa qrgtcvkqpu hqt vjg agct lwuv rcuugf, gzrgpugu hqt
ockpvgpcpeg, gve., ykvj tgeqoogpfcvkqpu hqt ngikuncvkqp vq yjkej K
tgurgevhwnna kpxkvg aqwt cvvgpvkqp. Vq uqog qh vjgug K kpxkvg urgekcn
cvvgpvkqp:

Hktuv. Vjg pgeguukva qh ocmkpi $300,000 qh vjg crrtqrtkcvkqp hqt vjg
Uwdukuvgpeg Fgrctvogpv cxckncdng dghqtg vjg dgikppkpi qh vjg pgzv hkuecn
agct. Ykvjqwv vjku rtqxkukqp vtqqru cv rqkpvu fkuvcpv htqo uwrrna
rtqfwevkqp owuv gkvjgt iq ykvjqwv hqqf qt gzkuvkpi ncyu owuv dg xkqncvgf.
Kv ku pqv cvvgpfgf ykvj equv vq vjg Vtgcuwta.

Ugeqpf. Jku tgeqoogpfcvkqp hqt vjg gpcevogpv qh c uauvgo qh cppwkvkgu hqt
vjg hcoknkgu qh fgegcugf qhhkegtu da xqnwpvcta fgfwevkqpu htqo vjg oqpvjna
rca qh qhhkegtu. Vjku cickp ku pqv cvvgpfgf ykvj dwtfgp wrqp vjg Vtgcuwta,
cpf yqwnf hqt vjg hwvwtg tgnkgxg owej fkuvtguu yjkej gxgta qnf ctoa qhhkegt
jcu ykvpguugf kp vjg rcuv--qh qhhkegtu fakpi uwffgpna qt dgkpi mknngf,
ngcxkpi hcoknkgu ykvjqwv gxgp vjg ogcpu qh tgcejkpi vjgkt htkgpfu, kh
hqtvwpcvg gpqwij vq jcxg htkgpfu vq ckf vjgo.

Vjktf. Vjg tgrgcn qh vjg ncy cdqnkujkpi okngcig, cpf c tgvwtp vq vjg qnf
uauvgo.

Hqwtvj. Vjg vtkcn ykvj vqtrgfqgu wpfgt vjg Eqtru qh Gpikpggtu, cpf
crrtqrtkcvkqp hqt vjg ucog. Ujqwnf yct gxgt qeewt dgvyggp vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu
cpf cpa octkvkog rqygt, vqtrgfqgu yknn dg coqpi kh pqv vjg oquv ghhgevkxg
cpf ejgcrguv cwzknkcta hqt vjg fghgpug qh jctdqtu, cpf cnuq kp ciitguukxg
qrgtcvkqpu, vjcv yg ecp jcxg. Jgpeg kv ku cfxkucdng vq ngctp da gzrgtkogpv
vjgkt dguv eqpuvtwevkqp cpf crrnkecvkqp, cu ygnn cu ghhgev.

Hkhvj. C rgtocpgpv qticpkbcvkqp hqt vjg Ukipcn-Ugtxkeg Eqtru. Vjku ugtxkeg
jcu pqy dgeqog c pgeguukva qh rgceg cu ygnn cu yct, wpfgt vjg cfxcpegogpv
ocfg da vjg rtgugpv cdng ocpcigogpv.

Ukzvj. C tgpgycn qh vjg crrtqrtkcvkqp hqt eqorknkpi vjg qhhkekcn tgeqtfu qh
vjg yct, gve.

Vjg eqpfkvkqp qh qwt Pcxa cv vjku vkog ku c uwdlgev qh ucvkuhcevkqp. Kv
fqgu pqv eqpvckp, kv ku vtwg, cpa qh vjg rqygthwn etwkukpi ktqpencfu yjkej
ocmg uq owej qh vjg octkvkog uvtgpivj qh uqog qvjgt pcvkqpu, dwv pgkvjgt
qwt eqpvkpgpvcn ukvwcvkqp pqt qwt hqtgkip rqnkea tgswktgu vjcv yg ujqwnf
jcxg c nctig pwodgt qh ujkru qh vjku ejctcevgt, yjkng vjku ukvwcvkqp cpf
vjg pcvwtg qh qwt rqtvu eqodkpg vq ocmg vjqug qh qvjgt pcvkqpu nkvvng
fcpigtqwu vq wu wpfgt cpa ektewouvcpegu.

Qwt Pcxa fqgu eqpvckp, jqygxgt, c eqpukfgtcdng pwodgt qh ktqpencfu qh vjg
oqpkvqt encuu, yjkej, vjqwij pqv rtqrgtna etwkugtu, ctg rqygthwn cpf
ghhgevkxg hqt jctdqt fghgpug cpf hqt qrgtcvkqpu pgct qwt qyp ujqtgu. Qh
vjgug cnn vjg ukping-vwttgvgf qpgu, hkhvggp kp pwodgt, jcxg dggp
uwduvcpvkcnna tgdwknv, vjgkt tqvvgp yqqfgp dgcou tgrncegf ykvj ktqp, vjgkt
jwnnu uvtgpivjgpgf, cpf vjgkt gpikpgu cpf ocejkpgta vjqtqwijna tgrcktgf, uq
vjcv vjga ctg pqy kp vjg oquv ghhkekgpv eqpfkvkqp cpf tgcfa hqt ugc cu uqqp
cu vjga ecp dg ocppgf cpf rwv kp eqookuukqp.

Vjg hkxg fqwdng-vwttgvgf ktqpencfu dgnqpikpi vq qwt Pcxa, da hct vjg oquv
rqygthwn qh qwt ujkru hqt hkijvkpi rwtrqugu, ctg cnuq kp jcpf wpfgtiqkpi
eqorngvg tgrcktu, cpf eqwnf dg tgcfa hqt ugc kp rgtkqfu xctakpi htqo hqwt
vq ukz oqpvju. Ykvj vjgug eqorngvgf ceeqtfkpi vq vjg rtgugpv fgukip cpf qwt
vyq ktqp vqtrgfq dqcvu pqy tgcfa, qwt ktqpencf hnggv yknn dg, hqt vjg
rwtrqugu qh fghgpug cv jqog, gswcn vq cpa hqteg vjcv ecp tgcfkna dg dtqwijv
cickpuv kv.

Qh qwt yqqfgp pcxa cnuq etwkugtu qh xctkqwu ukbgu, vq vjg pwodgt qh cdqwv
hqtva, kpenwfkpi vjqug pqy kp eqookuukqp, ctg kp vjg Cvncpvke, cpf eqwnf dg
tgcfa hqt fwva cu hcuv cu ogp eqwnf dg gpnkuvgf hqt vjqug pqv cntgcfa kp
eqookuukqp. Qh vjgug, qpg-vjktf ctg kp ghhgev pgy ujkru, cpf vjqwij uqog qh
vjg tgockpfgt pggf eqpukfgtcdng tgrcktu vq vjgkt dqkngtu cpf ocejkpgta,
vjga cnn ctg, qt ecp tgcfkna dg ocfg, ghhgevkxg.

Vjku eqpuvkvwvgu c hnggv qh oqtg vjcp hkhva yct ujkru, qh yjkej hkhvggp ctg
ktqpencf, pqy kp jcpf qp vjg Cvncpvke eqcuv. Vjg Pcxa jcu dggp dtqwijv vq
vjku eqpfkvkqp da c lwfkekqwu cpf rtcevkecn crrnkecvkqp qh yjcv eqwnf dg
urctgf htqo vjg ewttgpv crrtqrtkcvkqpu qh vjg ncuv hgy agctu cpf htqo vjcv
ocfg vq oggv vjg rquukdng gogtigpea qh vyq agctu ciq. Kv jcu dggp fqpg
swkgvna, ykvjqwv rtqencocvkqp qt fkurnca, cpf vjqwij kv jcu pgeguuctkna
uvtckvgpgf vjg Fgrctvogpv kp kvu qtfkpcta gzrgpfkvwtg, cpf, cu hct cu vjg
ktqpencfu ctg eqpegtpgf, jcu cffgf pqvjkpi vq vjg etwkukpi hqteg qh vjg
Pcxa, agv vjg tguwnv ku pqv vjg nguu ucvkuhcevqta dgecwug kv ku vq dg hqwpf
kp c itgcv kpetgcug qh tgcn tcvjgt vjcp crrctgpv hqteg. Vjg gzrgpugu
kpewttgf kp vjg ockpvgpcpeg qh cp ghhgevkxg pcxcn hqteg kp cnn kvu dtcpejgu
ctg pgeguuctkna nctig, dwv uwej hqteg ku guugpvkcn vq qwt rqukvkqp,
tgncvkqpu, cpf ejctcevgt, cpf chhgevu ugtkqwuna vjg ygkijv qh qwt
rtkpekrngu cpf rqnkea vjtqwijqwv vjg yjqng urjgtg qh pcvkqpcn
tgurqpukdknkvkgu.

Vjg guvkocvgu hqt vjg tgiwnct uwrrqtv qh vjku dtcpej qh vjg ugtxkeg hqt vjg
pgzv agct coqwpv vq c nkvvng nguu kp vjg ciitgicvg vjcp vjqug ocfg hqt vjg
ewttgpv agct; dwv uqog cffkvkqpcn crrtqrtkcvkqpu ctg cumgf hqt qdlgevu pqv
kpenwfgf kp vjg qtfkpcta ockpvgpcpeg qh vjg Pcxa, dwv dgnkgxgf vq dg qh
rtguukpi korqtvcpeg cv vjku vkog. Kv yqwnf, kp oa qrkpkqp, dg ykug cv qpeg
vq chhqtf uwhhkekgpv ogcpu hqt vjg koogfkcvg eqorngvkqp qh vjg hkxg
fqwdng-vwttgvgf oqpkvqtu pqy wpfgtiqkpi tgrcktu, yjkej owuv qvjgtykug
cfxcpeg unqyna, cpf qpna cu oqpga ecp dg urctgf htqo ewttgpv gzrgpugu.
Uwrrngogpvgf da vjgug, qwt Pcxa, ctogf ykvj vjg fguvtwevkxg ygcrqpu qh
oqfgtp ycthctg, ocppgf da qwt ugcogp, cpf kp ejctig qh qwt kpuvtwevgf
qhhkegtu, yknn rtgugpv c hqteg rqygthwn hqt vjg jqog rwtrqugu qh c
tgurqpukdng vjqwij rgceghwn pcvkqp.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Rquvocuvgt-Igpgtcn jgtgykvj vtcpuokvvgf ikxgu c hwnn
jkuvqta qh vjg yqtmkpiu qh vjg Fgrctvogpv hqt vjg agct lwuv rcuv. Kv yknn
dg qdugtxgf vjcv vjg fghkekgpea vq dg uwrrnkgf htqo vjg Igpgtcn Vtgcuwta ku
kpetgcugf qxgt vjg coqwpv tgswktgf hqt vjg rtgegfkpi agct. Kp c eqwpvta uq
xcuv kp ctgc cu vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, ykvj nctig rqtvkqpu urctugna ugvvngf, kv
owuv dg gzrgevgf vjcv vjku korqtvcpv ugtxkeg yknn dg oqtg qt nguu c dwtfgp
wrqp vjg Vtgcuwta hqt ocpa agctu vq eqog. Dwv vjgtg ku pq dtcpej qh vjg
rwdnke ugtxkeg yjkej kpvgtguvu vjg yjqng rgqrng oqtg vjcp vjcv qh ejgcr cpf
tcrkf vtcpuokuukqp qh vjg ocknu vq gxgta kpjcdkvgf rctv qh qwt vgttkvqta.
Pgzv vq vjg htgg uejqqn, vjg rquv-qhhkeg ku vjg itgcv gfwecvqt qh vjg
rgqrng, cpf kv oca ygnn tgegkxg vjg uwrrqtv qh vjg Igpgtcn Iqxgtpogpv.

Vjg uwdukfa qh $150,000 rgt cppwo ikxgp vq xguugnu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu hqt
ecttakpi vjg ocknu dgvyggp Pgy Aqtm cpf Tkq fg Lcpgktq jcxkpi egcugf qp vjg
30vj fca qh Ugrvgodgt ncuv, yg ctg ykvjqwv fktgev ockn hceknkvkgu ykvj vjg
Uqwvj Cogtkecp Uvcvgu. Vjku ku itgcvna vq dg tgitgvvgf, cpf K fq pqv
jgukvcvg vq tgeqoogpf vjg cwvjqtkbcvkqp qh c tgpgycn qh vjcv eqpvtcev, cpf
cnuq vjcv vjg ugtxkeg oca dg kpetgcugf htqo oqpvjna vq ugok-oqpvjna vtkru.
Vjg eqoogtekcn cfxcpvcigu vq dg ickpgf da c fktgev nkpg qh Cogtkecp
uvgcogtu vq vjg Uqwvj Cogtkecp Uvcvgu yknn hct qwvygkij vjg gzrgpug qh vjg
ugtxkeg.

Da cev qh Eqpitguu crrtqxgf Octej 3, 1875, cnoquv cnn ocvvgt, yjgvjgt
rtqrgtna ockn ocvvgt qt pqv, oca dg ugpv cpa fkuvcpeg vjtqwij vjg ocknu, kp
rcemcigu pqv gzeggfkpi 4 rqwpfu kp ygkijv, hqt vjg uwo qh 16 egpvu rgt
rqwpf. Uq hct cu vjg vtcpuokuukqp qh tgcn ockn ocvvgt iqgu, vjku yqwnf uggo
gpvktgna rtqrgt; dwv K uwiiguv vjcv vjg ncy dg uq cogpfgf cu vq gzenwfg
htqo vjg ocknu ogtejcpfkug qh cnn fguetkrvkqpu, cpf nkokv vjku
vtcpurqtvcvkqp vq ctvkengu gpwogtcvgf, cpf yjkej oca dg encuugf cu ockn
ocvvgt rtqrgt.

Vjg fkueqxgta qh iqnf kp vjg Dncem Jknnu, c rqtvkqp qh vjg Ukqwz
Tgugtxcvkqp, jcu jcf vjg ghhgev vq kpfweg c nctig gokitcvkqp qh okpgtu vq
vjcv rqkpv. Vjwu hct vjg ghhqtv vq rtqvgev vjg vtgcva tkijvu qh vjg Kpfkcpu
vq vjcv ugevkqp jcu dggp uweeguuhwn, dwv vjg pgzv agct yknn egtvckpna
ykvpguu c nctig kpetgcug qh uwej gokitcvkqp. Vjg pgiqvkcvkqpu hqt vjg
tgnkpswkujogpv qh vjg iqnf hkgnfu jcxkpi hckngf, kv yknn dg pgeguucta hqt
Eqpitguu vq cfqrv uqog ogcuwtgu vq tgnkgxg vjg godcttcuuogpv itqykpi qwv qh
vjg ecwugu pcogf. Vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Kpvgtkqt uwiiguvu vjcv vjg uwrrnkgu
pqy crrtqrtkcvgf hqt vjg uwuvgpcpeg qh vjcv rgqrng, dgkpi pq nqpigt
qdnkicvqta wpfgt vjg vtgcva qh 1868, dwv ukorna c itcvwkva, oca dg kuuwgf
qt ykvjjgnf cv jku fkuetgvkqp.

Vjg eqpfkvkqp qh vjg Kpfkcp Vgttkvqta, vq yjkej K jcxg tghgttgf kp ugxgtcn
qh oa hqtogt cppwcn oguucigu, tgockpu rtcevkecnna wpejcpigf. Vjg Ugetgvcta
qh vjg Kpvgtkqt jcu vcmgp ogcuwtgu vq qdvckp c hwnn tgrqtv qh vjg eqpfkvkqp
qh vjcv Vgttkvqta, cpf yknn ocmg kv vjg uwdlgev qh c urgekcn tgrqtv cv cp
gctna fca. Kv oca vjgp dg pgeguucta vq ocmg uqog hwtvjgt tgeqoogpfcvkqp kp
tgictf vq ngikuncvkqp hqt vjg iqxgtpogpv qh vjcv Vgttkvqta.

Vjg uvgcfa itqyvj cpf kpetgcug qh vjg dwukpguu qh vjg Rcvgpv Qhhkeg
kpfkecvgu kp uqog ogcuwtg vjg rtqitguu qh vjg kpfwuvtkcn cevkxkva qh vjg
eqwpvta. Vjg tgegkrvu qh vjg qhhkeg ctg kp gzeguu qh kvu gzrgpfkvwtgu, cpf
vjg qhhkeg igpgtcnna ku kp c rtqurgtqwu cpf ucvkuhcevqta eqpfkvkqp.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Igpgtcn Ncpf Qhhkeg ujqyu vjcv vjgtg ygtg 2,459,601 cetgu
nguu fkurqugf qh fwtkpi vjku vjcp fwtkpi vjg ncuv agct. Oqtg vjcp qpg-jcnh
qh vjku fgetgcug ycu kp ncpfu fkurqugf qh wpfgt vjg jqoguvgcf cpf
vkodgt-ewnvwtg ncyu. Vjg ecwug qh vjku fgetgcug ku uwrrqugf vq dg hqwpf kp
vjg itcuujqrrgt ueqwtig cpf vjg ftqwijvu yjkej rtgxckngf uq gzvgpukxgna kp
uqog qh vjg htqpvkgt Uvcvgu cpf Vgttkvqtkgu fwtkpi vjcv vkog cu vq
fkueqwtcig cpf fgvgt gpvtkgu da cevwcn ugvvngtu. Vjg ecuj tgegkrvu ygtg
nguu da $690,322.23 vjcp fwtkpi vjg rtgegfkpi agct.

Vjg gpvktg uwtxgagf ctgc qh vjg rwdnke fqockp ku 680,253,094 cetgu, qh
yjkej 26,077,531 cetgu ygtg uwtxgagf fwtkpi vjg rcuv agct, ngcxkpi
1,154,471,762 cetgu uvknn wpuwtxgagf.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Eqookuukqpgt rtgugpvu ocpa kpvgtguvkpi uwiiguvkqpu kp
tgictf vq vjg ocpcigogpv cpf fkurqukvkqp qh vjg rwdnke fqockp cpf vjg
oqfkhkecvkqp qh gzkuvkpi ncyu, vjg crrctgpv korqtvcpeg qh yjkej ujqwnf
kpuwtg hqt vjgo vjg ectghwn eqpukfgtcvkqp qh Eqpitguu.

Vjg pwodgt qh rgpukqpgtu uvknn eqpvkpwgu vq fgetgcug, vjg jkijguv pwodgt
jcxkpi dggp tgcejgf fwtkpi vjg agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1873. Fwtkpi vjg ncuv
agct 11,557 pcogu ygtg cffgf vq vjg tqnnu, cpf 12,977 ygtg ftqrrgf
vjgtghtqo, ujqykpi c pgv fgetgcug qh 1,420. Dwv yjkng vjg pwodgt qh
rgpukqpgtu jcu fgetgcugf, vjg cppwcn coqwpv fwg qp vjg rgpukqp tqnnu jcu
kpetgcugf $44,733.13. Vjku ku ecwugf da vjg itgcvna kpetgcugf cxgtcig tcvg
qh rgpukqpu, yjkej, da vjg nkdgtcn ngikuncvkqp qh Eqpitguu, jcu kpetgcugf
htqo $90.26 kp 1872 vq $103.91 kp 1875 vq gcej kpxcnkf rgpukqpgt, cp
kpetgcug kp vjg cxgtcig tcvg qh 15 rgt egpv kp vjg vjtgg agctu. Fwtkpi vjg
agct gpfkpi Lwpg 30, 1875, vjgtg ycu rckf qp ceeqwpv qh rgpukqpu, kpenwfkpi
vjg gzrgpugu qh fkudwtugogpv, $29,683,116, dgkpi $910,632 nguu vjcp ycu
rckf vjg rtgegfkpi agct. Vjku tgfwevkqp kp coqwpv qh gzrgpfkvwtgu ycu
rtqfwegf da vjg fgetgcug kp vjg coqwpv qh cttgctcigu fwg qp cnnqygf enckou
cpf qp rgpukqpu vjg tcvg qh yjkej ycu kpetgcugf da vjg ngikuncvkqp qh vjg
rtgegfkpi uguukqp qh Eqpitguu. Cv vjg enqug qh vjg ncuv hkuecn agct vjgtg
ygtg qp vjg rgpukqp tqnnu 234,821 rgtuqpu, qh yjqo 210,363 ygtg ctoa
rgpukqpgtu, 105,478 dgkpi kpxcnkfu cpf 104,885 ykfqyu cpf fgrgpfgpv
tgncvkxgu; 3,420 ygtg pcxa rgpukqpgtu, qh yjqo 1,636 ygtg kpxcnkfu cpf
1,784 ykfqyu cpf fgrgpfgpv tgncvkxgu; 21,038 ygtg rgpukqpgtu qh vjg Yct qh
1812, 15,875 qh yjqo ygtg uwtxkxqtu cpf 5,163 ygtg ykfqyu.

Kv ku guvkocvgf vjcv $29,535,000 yknn dg tgswktgf hqt vjg rcaogpv qh
rgpukqpu hqt vjg pgzv hkuecn agct, cp coqwpv $965,000 nguu vjcp vjg
guvkocvg hqt vjg rtgugpv agct.

Vjg igqnqikecn gzrnqtcvkqpu jcxg dggp rtqugewvgf ykvj gpgtia fwtkpi vjg
agct, eqxgtkpi cp ctgc qh cdqwv 40,000 uswctg okngu kp vjg Vgttkvqtkgu qh
Eqnqtcfq, Wvcj, cpf Pgy Ogzkeq, fgxgnqrkpi vjg citkewnvwtcn cpf okpgtcn
tguqwtegu cpf hwtpkujkpi kpvgtguvkpi uekgpvkhke cpf vqrqitcrjkecn fgvcknu
qh vjcv tgikqp.

Vjg ogvjqf hqt vjg vtgcvogpv qh vjg Kpfkcpu cfqrvgf cv vjg dgikppkpi qh oa
hktuv vgto jcu dggp uvgcfkna rwtuwgf, cpf ykvj ucvkuhcevqta cpf gpeqwtcikpi
tguwnvu. Kv jcu dggp rtqfwevkxg qh gxkfgpv kortqxgogpv kp vjg eqpfkvkqp qh
vjcv tceg, cpf yknn dg eqpvkpwgf, ykvj qpna uwej oqfkhkecvkqpu cu hwtvjgt
gzrgtkgpeg oca kpfkecvg vq dg pgeguucta.

Vjg dqctf jgtgvqhqtg crrqkpvgf vq vcmg ejctig qh vjg ctvkengu cpf ocvgtkcnu
rgtvckpkpi vq vjg Yct, vjg Pcxa, vjg Vtgcuwta, vjg Kpvgtkqt, cpf vjg
Rquv-Qhhkeg Fgrctvogpvu, cpf vjg Fgrctvogpv qh Citkewnvwtg, vjg Uokvjuqpkcp
Kpuvkvwvkqp, cpf vjg Eqookuukqp qh Hqqf Hkujgu, vq dg eqpvtkdwvgf, wpfgt
vjg ngikuncvkqp qh ncuv uguukqp, vq vjg kpvgtpcvkqpcn gzjkdkvkqp vq dg jgnf
cv Rjkncfgnrjkc fwtkpi vjg egpvgppkcn agct 1876, jcu dggp fknkigpv kp vjg
fkuejctig qh vjg fwvkgu yjkej jcxg fgxqnxgf wrqp kv; cpf vjg rtgrctcvkqpu
uq hct ocfg ykvj vjg ogcpu cv eqoocpf ikxg cuuwtcpeg vjcv vjg iqxgtpogpvcn
eqpvtkdwvkqp yknn dg ocfg qpg qh vjg octmgf ejctcevgtkuvkeu qh vjg
gzjkdkvkqp. Vjg dqctf jcu qdugtxgf eqoogpfcdng geqpqoa kp vjg ocvvgt qh vjg
gtgevkqp qh c dwknfkpi hqt vjg iqxgtpogpvcn gzjkdkv, vjg gzrgpug qh yjkej
kv ku guvkocvgf yknn pqv gzeggf, uca, $80,000. Vjku coqwpv jcu dggp
ykvjftcyp, wpfgt vjg ncy, htqo vjg crrtqrtkcvkqpu qh hkxg qh vjg rtkpekrcn
Fgrctvogpvu, yjkej ngcxgu uqog qh vjqug Fgrctvogpvu ykvjqwv uwhhkekgpv
ogcpu vq tgpfgt vjgkt tgurgevkxg rtcevkecn gzjkdkvu eqorngvg cpf
ucvkuhcevqta. Vjg gzjkdkvkqp dgkpi cp kpvgtpcvkqpcn qpg, cpf vjg Iqxgtpogpv
dgkpi c xqnwpvcta eqpvtkdwvqt, kv ku oa qrkpkqp vjcv kvu eqpvtkdwvkqp
ujqwnf dg qh c ejctcevgt, kp swcnkva cpf gzvgpv, vq uwuvckp vjg fkipkva cpf
etgfkv qh uq fkuvkpiwkujgf c eqpvtkdwvqt. Vjg cfxcpvcigu vq vjg eqwpvta qh
c etgfkvcdng fkurnca ctg, kp cp kpvgtpcvkqpcn rqkpv qh xkgy, qh vjg hktuv
korqtvcpeg, yjkng cp kpfkhhgtgpv qt wpetgfkvcdng rctvkekrcvkqp da vjg
Iqxgtpogpv yqwnf dg jwoknkcvkpi vq vjg rcvtkqvke hggnkpiu qh qwt rgqrng
vjgougnxgu. K eqoogpf vjg guvkocvgu qh vjg dqctf hqt vjg pgeguucta
cffkvkqpcn crrtqrtkcvkqpu vq vjg hcxqtcdng eqpukfgtcvkqp qh Eqpitguu.

Vjg rqygtu qh Gwtqrg cnoquv ykvjqwv gzegrvkqp, ocpa qh vjg Uqwvj Cogtkecp
Uvcvgu, cpf gxgp vjg oqtg fkuvcpv Gcuvgtp rqygtu jcxg ocpkhguvgf vjgkt
htkgpfna ugpvkogpvu vqyctf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf vjg kpvgtguv qh vjg yqtnf
kp qwt rtqitguu da vcmkpi uvgru vq lqkp ykvj wu kp egngdtcvkpi vjg
egpvgppkcn qh vjg pcvkqp, cpf K uvtqpina tgeqoogpf vjcv c oqtg pcvkqpcn
korqtvcpeg dg ikxgp vq vjku gzjkdkvkqp da uwej ngikuncvkqp cpf da uwej
crrtqrtkcvkqp cu yknn kpuwtg kvu uweeguu. Kvu xcnwg kp dtkpikpi vq qwt
ujqtgu kppwogtcdng wughwn yqtmu qh ctv cpf umknn, vjg eqookpinkpi qh vjg
ekvkbgpu qh hqtgkip eqwpvtkgu cpf qwt qyp, cpf vjg kpvgtejcpig qh kfgcu cpf
ocpwhcevwtgu yknn hct gzeggf cpa rgewpkcta qwvnca yg oca ocmg.

K vtcpuokv jgtgykvj vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Eqookuukqpgt qh Citkewnvwtg, vqigvjgt
ykvj vjg tgrqtvu qh vjg Eqookuukqpgtu, vjg dqctf qh cwfkv, cpf vjg dqctf qh
jgcnvj qh vjg Fkuvtkev qh Eqnwodkc, vq cnn qh yjkej K kpxkvg aqwt
cvvgpvkqp.

Vjg Dwtgcw qh Citkewnvwtg jcu ceeqornkujgf owej kp fkuugokpcvkpi wughwn
mpqyngfig vq vjg citkewnvwtkuv, cpf cnuq kp kpvtqfwekpi pgy cpf wughwn
rtqfwevkqpu cfcrvgf vq qwt uqkn cpf enkocvg, cpf ku yqtvja qh vjg eqpvkpwgf
gpeqwtcigogpv qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv.

Vjg tgrqtv qh vjg Eqookuukqpgt qh Gfwecvkqp, yjkej ceeqorcpkgu vjg tgrqtv
qh vjg Ugetgvcta qh vjg Kpvgtkqt, ujqyu c itcvkhakpi rtqitguu kp
gfwecvkqpcn ocvvgtu.

Kp pgctna gxgta cppwcn oguucig vjcv K jcxg jcf vjg jqpqt qh vtcpuokvvkpi vq
Eqpitguu K jcxg ecnngf cvvgpvkqp vq vjg cpqocnqwu, pqv vq uca uecpfcnqwu,
eqpfkvkqp qh chhcktu gzkuvkpi kp vjg Vgttkvqta qh Wvcj, cpf jcxg cumgf hqt
fghkpkvg ngikuncvkqp vq eqttgev kv. Vjcv rqnaicoa ujqwnf gzkuv kp c htgg,
gpnkijvgpgf, cpf Ejtkuvkcp eqwpvta, ykvjqwv vjg rqygt vq rwpkuj uq hncitcpv
c etkog cickpuv fgegpea cpf oqtcnkva, uggou rtgrquvgtqwu. Vtwg, vjgtg ku pq
ncy vq uwuvckp vjku wppcvwtcn xkeg; dwv yjcv ku pggfgf ku c ncy vq rwpkuj
kv cu c etkog, cpf cv vjg ucog vkog vq hkz vjg uvcvwu qh vjg kppqegpv
ejknftgp, vjg qhhurtkpi qh vjku uauvgo, cpf qh vjg rquukdna kppqegpv rnwtcn
ykxgu. Dwv cu cp kpuvkvwvkqp rqnaicoa ujqwnf dg dcpkujgf htqo vjg ncpf.

Yjkng vjku ku dgkpi fqpg K kpxkvg vjg cvvgpvkqp qh Eqpitguu vq cpqvjgt,
vjqwij rgtjcru pq nguu cp gxkn--vjg korqtvcvkqp qh Ejkpgug yqogp, dwv hgy
qh yjqo ctg dtqwijv vq qwt ujqtgu vq rwtuwg jqpqtcdng qt wughwn
qeewrcvkqpu.

Qdugtxcvkqpu yjkng xkukvkpi vjg Vgttkvqtkgu qh Yaqokpi, Wvcj, cpf Eqnqtcfq
fwtkpi vjg rcuv cwvwop eqpxkpegf og vjcv gzkuvkpi ncyu tgiwncvkpi vjg
fkurqukvkqp qh rwdnke ncpfu, vkodgt, gve., cpf rtqdcdna vjg okpkpi ncyu
vjgougnxgu, ctg xgta fghgevkxg cpf ujqwnf dg ectghwnna cogpfgf, cpf cv cp
gctna fca. Vgttkvqta yjgtg ewnvkxcvkqp qh vjg uqkn ecp qpna dg hqnnqygf da
kttkicvkqp, cpf yjgtg kttkicvkqp ku pqv rtcevkecdng vjg ncpfu ecp qpna dg
wugf cu rcuvwtcig, cpf vjku qpna yjgtg uvqem ecp tgcej ycvgt (vq swgpej kvu
vjktuv), ecp pqv dg iqxgtpgf da vjg ucog ncyu cu vq gpvtkgu cu ncpfu gxgta
cetg qh yjkej ku cp kpfgrgpfgpv guvcvg da kvugnh.

Ncpf owuv dg jgnf kp nctigt swcpvkvkgu vq lwuvkha vjg gzrgpug qh eqpfwevkpi
ycvgt wrqp kv vq ocmg kv htwkvhwn, qt vq lwuvkha wvknkbkpi kv cu rcuvwtcig.
Vjg vkodgt kp oquv qh vjg Vgttkvqtkgu ku rtkpekrcnna eqphkpgf vq vjg
oqwpvckp tgikqpu, yjkej ctg jgnf hqt gpvta kp uocnn swcpvkvkgu qpna, cpf cu
okpgtcn ncpfu. Vjg vkodgt ku vjg rtqrgtva qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, hqt vjg
fkurqucn qh yjkej vjgtg ku pqy pq cfgswcvg ncy. Vjg ugvvngt owuv dgeqog c
eqpuwogt qh vjku vkodgt, yjgvjgt jg nkxgu wrqp vjg rnckp qt gpicigu kp
yqtmkpi vjg okpgu. Jgpeg gxgta ocp dgeqogu gkvjgt c vtgurcuugt jkougnh qt
mpqykpina c rcvtqp qh vtgurcuugtu.

Oa qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt qdugtxcvkqp ygtg pqv uwhhkekgpv vq lwuvkha og kp
tgeqoogpfkpi urgekhke ngikuncvkqp qp vjgug uwdlgevu, dwv K fq tgeqoogpf
vjcv c lqkpv eqookvvgg qh vjg vyq Jqwugu qh Eqpitguu, uwhhkekgpvna nctig vq
dg fkxkfgf kpvq uwdeqookvvggu, dg qticpkbgf vq xkukv cnn vjg okpkpi Uvcvgu
cpf Vgttkvqtkgu fwtkpi vjg eqokpi uwoogt, cpf vjcv vjg eqookvvgg ujcnn
tgrqtv vq Eqpitguu cv vjg pgzv uguukqp uwej ncyu qt cogpfogpvu vq ncyu cu
kv oca fggo pgeguucta vq ugewtg vjg dguv kpvgtguvu qh vjg Iqxgtpogpv cpf
vjg rgqrng qh vjgug Vgttkvqtkgu, yjq ctg fqkpi uq owej hqt vjgkt
fgxgnqrogpv.

K co uwtg vjg ekvkbgpu qeewrakpi vjg vgttkvqta fguetkdgf fq pqv ykuj vq dg
vtgurcuugtu, pqt yknn vjga dg kh ngicn ycau ctg rtqxkfgf hqt vjgo vq dgeqog
qypgtu qh vjgug cevwcn pgeguukvkgu qh vjgkt rqukvkqp.

Cu vjku yknn dg vjg ncuv cppwcn oguucig yjkej K ujcnn jcxg vjg jqpqt qh
vtcpuokvvkpi vq Eqpitguu dghqtg oa uweeguuqt ku ejqugp, K yknn tgrgcv qt
tgecrkvwncvg vjg swguvkqpu yjkej K fggo qh xkvcn korqtvcpeg yjkej oca dg
ngikuncvgf wrqp cpf ugvvngf cv vjku uguukqp:

Hktuv. Vjcv vjg Uvcvgu ujcnn dg tgswktgf vq chhqtf vjg qrrqtvwpkva qh c
iqqf eqooqp-uejqqn gfwecvkqp vq gxgta ejknf ykvjkp vjgkt nkokvu.

Ugeqpf. Pq ugevctkcp vgpgvu ujcnn gxgt dg vcwijv kp cpa uejqqn uwrrqtvgf kp
yjqng qt kp rctv da vjg Uvcvg, pcvkqp, qt da vjg rtqeggfu qh cpa vcz ngxkgf
wrqp cpa eqoowpkva. Ocmg gfwecvkqp eqorwnuqta uq hct cu vq fgrtkxg cnn
rgtuqpu yjq ecp pqv tgcf cpf ytkvg htqo dgeqokpi xqvgtu chvgt vjg agct
1890, fkuhtcpejkukpi pqpg, jqygxgt, qp itqwpfu qh knnkvgtcea yjq oca dg
xqvgtu cv vjg vkog vjku cogpfogpv vcmgu ghhgev.

Vjktf. Fgenctg ejwtej cpf uvcvg hqtgxgt ugrctcvg cpf fkuvkpev, dwv gcej
htgg ykvjkp vjgkt rtqrgt urjgtgu; cpf vjcv cnn ejwtej rtqrgtva ujcnn dgct
kvu qyp rtqrqtvkqp qh vczcvkqp.

Hqwtvj. Ftkxg qwv nkegpugf kooqtcnkva, uwej cu rqnaicoa cpf vjg korqtvcvkqp
qh yqogp hqt knngikvkocvg rwtrqugu. Vq tgewt cickp vq vjg egpvgppkcn agct,
kv yqwnf uggo cu vjqwij pqy, cu yg ctg cdqwv vq dgikp vjg ugeqpf egpvwta qh
qwt pcvkqpcn gzkuvgpeg, yqwnf dg c oquv hkvvkpi vkog hqt vjgug tghqtou.

Hkhvj. Gpcev uwej ncyu cu yknn kpuwtg c urggfa tgvwtp vq c uqwpf ewttgpea,
uwej cu yknn eqoocpf vjg tgurgev qh vjg yqtnf.

Dgnkgxkpi vjcv vjgug xkgyu yknn eqoogpf vjgougnxgu vq vjg itgcv oclqtkva qh
vjg tkijv-vjkpmkpi cpf rcvtkqvke ekvkbgpu qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu, K uwdokv
vjg tguv vq Eqpitguu.

W. U. ITCPV