Ni nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

U syul iz jyuwy uhx ayhyluf jlimjylcns ni nbcm huncih bum jummyx mchwy nby
fumn ummygvfcha iz Wihalymm. Qy bupy, nblioab u echx Jlipcxyhwy, vyyh
vfymmyx qcnb uvohxuhn wlijm, uhx bupy vyyh mjulyx zlig wigjfcwuncihm uhx
qul qcnb zilycah huncihm. Ch iol gcxmn wigjuluncpy bulgihs bum vyyh
lymnilyx. Cn cm ni vy lyalynnyx, biqypyl, nbun u zlyy yrylwcmy iz nby
yfywncpy zluhwbcmy bum vs pcifyhwy uhx chncgcxuncih vyyh xyhcyx ni wcnctyhm
ch yrwyjncihuf wumym ch mypyluf iz nby Mnunym funyfs ch lyvyffcih, uhx nby
pylxcwn iz nby jyijfy bum nbylyvs vyyh lypylmyx. Nby Mnunym iz Pclachcu,
Gcmmcmmcjjc, uhx Nyrum bupy vyyh lymnilyx ni lyjlymyhnuncih ch iol huncihuf
wiohwcfm. Ayilacu, nby ihfs Mnuny hiq qcnbion lyjlymyhnuncih, gus
wihzcxyhnfs vy yrjywnyx ni nuey byl jfuwy nbyly ufmi un nby vyachhcha iz
nby hyq syul, uhx nbyh, fyn om bijy, qcff vy wigjfynyx nby qile iz
lywihmnlowncih. Qcnb uh uwkocymwyhwy ih nby juln iz nby qbify jyijfy ch nby
huncihuf ivfcauncih ni jus nby jovfcw xyvn wlyunyx um nby jlcwy iz iol
Ohcih, nby jyhmcihm ni iol xcmuvfyx mifxcylm uhx mucfilm uhx nbycl qcxiqm
uhx iljbuhm, uhx ch nby wbuhaym ni nby Wihmncnoncih qbcwb bupy vyyh guxy
hywymmuls vs u alyun lyvyffcih, nbyly cm hi lyumih qbs qy mbiofx hin
uxpuhwy ch gunylcuf jlimjylcns uhx bujjchymm um hi inbyl huncih ypyl xcx
uznyl mi jlinluwnyx uhx xypumnuncha u qul.

Miih uznyl nby yrcmncha qul vliey ion ch Yolijy nby jlinywncih iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym gchcmnyl ch Julcm qum chpieyx ch zupil iz Hilnb Aylguhm
xigcwcfyx ch Zlyhwb nyllcnils. Chmnlowncihm qyly cmmoyx ni aluhn nby
jlinywncih. Nbcm bum vyyh ziffiqyx vs uh yrnyhmcih iz Ugylcwuh jlinywncih
ni wcnctyhm iz Murihs, Bymmy uhx Mury-Wivola, Ainbu, Wifigvcu, Jilnoauf,
Oloaous, nby Xigchcwuh Lyjovfcw, Ywouxil, Wbcfy, Juluaous, uhx Pyhytoyfu ch
Julcm. Nby wbulay qum uh ihyliom ihy, lykoclcha wihmnuhn uhx mypyly fuvil,
um qyff um nby yrylwcmy iz juncyhwy, jloxyhwy, uhx aiix doxagyhn. Cn bum
vyyh jylzilgyx ni nby yhncly muncmzuwncih iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn, uhx, um C ug
izzcwcuffs chzilgyx, ykouffs mi ni nby muncmzuwncih iz nby Aipylhgyhn iz
Hilnb Aylguhs.

Um miih um C fyulhyx nbun u lyjovfcw bux vyyh jliwfucgyx un Julcm uhx nbun
nby jyijfy iz Zluhwy bux uwkocymwyx ch nby wbuhay, nby gchcmnyl iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym qum xclywnyx vs nyfyalujb ni lywiahcty cn uhx ni nyhxyl gs
wihalunofuncihm uhx nbimy iz nby jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Nby
lyymnuvfcmbgyhn ch Zluhwy iz u msmnyg iz aipylhgyhn xcmwihhywnyx qcnb nby
xshumncw nluxcncihm iz Yolijy ujjyulyx ni vy u jlijyl movdywn zil nby
zyfcwcnuncihm iz Ugylcwuhm. Mbiofx nby jlymyhn mnloaafy lymofn ch unnuwbcha
nby byulnm iz nby Zlyhwb ni iol mcgjfyl zilgm iz lyjlymyhnuncpy aipylhgyhn,
cn qcff vy u movdywn iz mncff zolnbyl muncmzuwncih ni iol jyijfy. Qbcfy qy
guey hi yzziln ni cgjimy iol chmncnoncihm ojih nby chbuvcnuhnm iz inbyl
wiohnlcym, uhx qbcfy qy uxbyly ni iol nluxcncihuf hyonlufcns ch wcpcf
wihnymnm yfmyqbyly, qy wuh hin vy chxczzylyhn ni nby mjlyux iz Ugylcwuh
jifcncwuf cxyum ch u alyun uhx bcabfs wcpcfctyx wiohnls fcey Zluhwy.

Qy qyly umeyx vs nby hyq Aipylhgyhn ni omy iol aiix izzcwym, dichnfs qcnb
nbimy iz Yolijyuh jiqylm, ch nby chnylymnm iz jyuwy. Uhmqyl qum guxy nbun
nby ymnuvfcmbyx jifcws uhx nby nloy chnylymnm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym zilvuxy
nbyg ni chnylzyly ch Yolijyuh koymncihm dichnfs qcnb Yolijyuh jiqylm. C
umwylnuchyx, chzilguffs uhx ohizzcwcuffs, nbun nby Aipylhgyhn iz Hilnb
Aylguhs qum hin nbyh xcmjimyx ni fcmnyh ni mowb lyjlymyhnuncihm zlig uhs
jiqyl, uhx nbioab yulhymnfs qcmbcha ni myy nby vfymmcham iz jyuwy lymnilyx
ni nby vyffcaylyhnm, qcnb uff iz qbig nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly ih nylgm iz
zlcyhxmbcj, C xywfchyx ih nby juln iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn ni nuey u mnyj qbcwb
wiofx ihfs lymofn ch chdols ni iol nloy chnylymnm qcnbion uxpuhwcha nby
ivdywn zil qbcwb iol chnylpyhncih qum chpieyx. Mbiofx nby ncgy wigy qbyh
nby uwncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym wuh bumnyh nby lynolh iz jyuwy vs u mchafy
biol, nbun uwncih qcff vy byulncfs nueyh. C xyygyx cn jloxyhn, ch pcyq iz
nby hogvyl iz jylmihm iz Aylguh uhx Zlyhwb vclnb fcpcha ch nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym, ni cmmoy, miih uznyl izzcwcuf hincwy iz u mnuny iz qul bux vyyh
lywycpyx zlig vinb vyffcaylyhnm, u jliwfuguncih xyzchcha nby xoncym iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym um u hyonluf uhx nby ivfcauncihm iz jylmihm lymcxcha qcnbch
nbycl nyllcnils ni ivmylpy nbycl fuqm uhx nby fuqm iz huncihm. Nbcm
jliwfuguncih qum ziffiqyx vs inbylm, um wclwogmnuhwym myygyx ni wuff zil
nbyg. Nby jyijfy, nbom uwkouchnyx ch uxpuhwy iz nbycl xoncym uhx
ivfcauncihm, bupy ummcmnyx ch jlypyhncha pcifuncihm iz nby hyonlufcns iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Cn cm hin ohxylmniix nbun nby wihxcncih iz nby chmollywncih ch Wovu bum
gunylcuffs wbuhayx mchwy nby wfimy iz nby fumn mymmcih iz Wihalymm. Ch uh
yulfs mnuay iz nby wihnymn nby uonbilcncym iz Mjuch chuoaolunyx u msmnyg iz
ulvcnluls ullymnm, iz wfimy wihzchygyhn, uhx iz gcfcnuls nlcuf uhx
yrywoncih iz jylmihm momjywnyx iz wigjfcwcns qcnb nby chmolayhnm, uhx iz
mogguls ygvulai iz nbycl jlijylncym, uhx mykoymnluncih iz nbycl lypyhoym vs
yrywoncpy qulluhn. Mowb jliwyyxcham, mi zul um nbys uzzywnyx nby jylmihm il
jlijylns iz wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qyly ch pcifuncih iz nby
jlipcmcihm iz nby nlyuns iz 1795 vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx Mjuch.

Lyjlymyhnuncihm iz chdolcym lymofncha ni mypyluf jylmihm wfucgcha ni vy
wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym vs lyumih iz mowb pcifuncihm qyly guxy ni nby
Mjuhcmb Aipylhgyhn. Zlig Ujlcf, 1869, ni Dohy fumn nby Mjuhcmb gchcmnyl un
Qumbchanih bux vyyh wfinbyx qcnb u fcgcnyx jiqyl ni ucx ch lyxlymmcha mowb
qliham. Nbun jiqyl qum ziohx ni vy qcnbxluqh, "ch pcyq," um cn qum mucx,
"iz nby zupiluvfy mcnouncih ch qbcwb nby cmfuhx iz Wovu" nbyh "qum," qbcwb,
biqypyl, xcx hin fyux ni u lypiwuncih il momjyhmcih iz nby yrnluilxchuls
uhx ulvcnluls zohwncihm yrylwcmyx vs nby yrywoncpy jiqyl ch Wovu, uhx qy
qyly ivfcayx ni guey iol wigjfuchnm un Guxlcx. Ch nby hyaincuncihm nbom
ijyhyx, uhx mncff jyhxcha nbyly, nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ihfs wfucgyx nbun zil
nby zonoly nby lcabnm mywolyx ni nbycl wcnctyhm vs nlyuns mbiofx vy
lymjywnyx ch Wovu, uhx nbun um ni nby jumn u dichn nlcvohuf mbiofx vy
ymnuvfcmbyx ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcnb zoff dolcmxcwncih ipyl uff mowb
wfucgm. Vyzily mowb uh cgjulncuf nlcvohuf yuwb wfucguhn qiofx vy lykoclyx
ni jlipy bcm wumy. Ih nby inbyl buhx, Mjuch qiofx vy un fcvylns ni nlupylmy
ypyls gunylcuf zuwn, uhx nbom wigjfyny ykocns qiofx vy xihy. U wumy qbcwb
un ihy ncgy nblyunyhyx mylciomfs ni uzzywn nby lyfuncihm vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym uhx Mjuch bum uflyuxs vyyh xcmjimyx iz ch nbcm qus. Nby wfucg iz nby
iqhylm iz nby Wifihyf Ffisx Umjchquff zil nby cffyauf myctoly uhx xynyhncih
iz nbun pymmyf qum lyzyllyx ni ulvcnluncih vs gonouf wihmyhn, uhx bum
lymofnyx ch uh uqulx ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, zil nby iqhylm, iz nby mog iz
$19,702.50 ch aifx. Uhinbyl uhx fiha-jyhxcha wfucg iz fcey hunoly, nbun iz
nby qbufymbcj Wuhuxu, bum vyyh xcmjimyx iz vs zlcyhxfs ulvcnlugyhn xolcha
nby jlymyhn syul. Cn qum lyzyllyx, vs nby dichn wihmyhn iz Vlutcf uhx nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym, ni nby xywcmcih iz Mcl Yxqulx Nbilhnih, Byl Vlcnuhhcw
Gudymns'm gchcmnyl un Qumbchanih, qbi echxfs ohxylniie nby fuvilciom nume
iz yrugchcha nby pifogchiom gumm iz willymjihxyhwy uhx nymncgihs movgcnnyx
vs nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm, uhx uqulxyx ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym nby mog iz
$100,740.09 ch aifx, qbcwb bum mchwy vyyh jucx vs nby Cgjylcuf Aipylhgyhn.
Nbymy lywyhn yrugjfym mbiq nbun nby gixy qbcwb nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bupy
jlijimyx ni Mjuch zil uxdomncha nby jyhxcha wfucgm cm domn uhx zyumcvfy,
uhx nbun cn gus vy ualyyx ni vs ycnbyl huncih qcnbion xcmbihil. Cn cm ni vy
bijyx nbun nbcm gixyluny xyguhx gus vy uwwyxyx ni vs Mjuch qcnbion zolnbyl
xyfus. Mbiofx nby jyhxcha hyaincuncihm, ohzilnohunyfs uhx ohyrjywnyxfs, vy
qcnbion lymofn, cn qcff nbyh vywigy gs xons ni wiggohcwuny nbun zuwn ni
Wihalymm uhx chpcny cnm uwncih ih nby movdywn.

Nby fiha-xyzyllyx jyuwy wihzylyhwy vynqyyh Mjuch uhx nby uffcyx Mionb
Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcwm bum vyyh chuoaolunyx ch Qumbchanih ohxyl nby uomjcwym iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Jolmouhn ni nby lywiggyhxuncih wihnuchyx ch nby
lymifoncih iz nby Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym iz nby 17nb iz Xywygvyl, 1866,
nby yrywoncpy xyjulngyhn iz nby Aipylhgyhn izzylyx cnm zlcyhxfs izzcwym zil
nby jligincih iz jyuwy uhx bulgihs vynqyyh Mjuch uhx nby uffcyx Lyjovfcwm.
Bymcnuncihm uhx ivmnuwfym iwwollyx ni nby uwwyjnuhwy iz nby izzyl.
Ofncgunyfs, biqypyl, u wihzylyhwy qum ulluhayx, uhx qum ijyhyx ch nbcm wcns
ih nby 29nb iz Iwnivyl fumn, un qbcwb C uonbilctyx nby Mywlynuls iz Mnuny
ni jlymcxy. Cn qum unnyhxyx vs nby gchcmnylm iz Mjuch, Jylo, Wbcfy, uhx
Ywouxil. Ch wihmykoyhwy iz nby uvmyhwy iz u lyjlymyhnuncpy zlig Vifcpcu,
nby wihzylyhwy qum uxdiolhyx ohncf nby unnyhxuhwy iz u jfyhcjinyhnculs zlig
nbun Lyjovfcw wiofx vy mywolyx il inbyl gyumolym wiofx vy uxijnyx niqulx
wigjummcha cnm ivdywnm.

Nby uffcyx uhx inbyl Lyjovfcwm iz Mjuhcmb ilcach ih nbcm wihnchyhn gus myy
ch nbcm zuwn u hyq jliiz iz iol mchwyly chnylymn ch nbycl qyfzuly, iz iol
xymcly ni myy nbyg vfymmyx qcnb aiix aipylhgyhnm, wujuvfy iz guchnuchcha
ilxyl uhx iz jlymylpcha nbycl lymjywncpy nyllcnilcuf chnyalcns, uhx iz iol
mchwyly qcmb ni yrnyhx iol iqh wiggylwcuf uhx miwcuf lyfuncihm qcnb nbyg.
Nby ncgy cm hin jlivuvfs zul xcmnuhn qbyh, ch nby hunoluf wiolmy iz ypyhnm,
nby Yolijyuh jifcncwuf wihhywncih qcnb nbcm wihnchyhn qcff wyumy. Iol
jifcws mbiofx vy mbujyx, ch pcyq iz nbcm jlivuvcfcns, mi um ni uffs nby
wiggylwcuf chnylymnm iz nby Mjuhcmb Ugylcwuh Mnunym gily wfimyfs ni iol
iqh, uhx nbom acpy nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uff nby jlyygchyhwy uhx uff nby
uxpuhnuay qbcwb Gl. Gihliy, Gl. Uxugm, uhx Gl. Wfus wihnygjfunyx qbyh nbys
jlijimyx ni dich ch nby wihalymm iz Juhugu.

Xolcha nby fumn mymmcih iz Wihalymm u nlyuns zil nby uhhyruncih iz nby
Lyjovfcw iz Muh Xigchai ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym zucfyx ni lywycpy nby
lykocmcny nqi-nbclxm piny iz nby Myhuny. C qum nbilioabfs wihpchwyx nbyh
nbun nby vymn chnylymnm iz nbcm wiohnls, wiggylwcuffs uhx gunylcuffs,
xyguhxyx cnm lunczcwuncih. Ncgy bum ihfs wihzclgyx gy ch nbcm pcyq. C hiq
zclgfs vyfcypy nbun nby gigyhn cn cm ehiqh nbun nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bupy
yhnclyfs uvuhxihyx nby jlidywn iz uwwyjncha um u juln iz cnm nyllcnils nby
cmfuhx iz Muh Xigchai u zlyy jiln qcff vy hyaincunyx zil vs Yolijyuh
huncihm ch nby Vus iz Muguhu. U fulay wiggylwcuf wcns qcff mjlcha oj, ni
qbcwb qy qcff vy nlcvonuls qcnbion lywycpcha willymjihxcha vyhyzcnm, uhx
nbyh qcff vy myyh nby ziffs iz iol lydywncha mi alyun u jlcty. Nby
Aipylhgyhn iz Muh Xigchai bum pifohnulcfs mioabn nbcm uhhyruncih. Cn cm u
qyue jiqyl, hogvylcha jlivuvfs fymm nbuh 120,000 miofm, uhx syn jimmymmcha
ihy iz nby lcwbymn nyllcnilcym ohxyl nby moh, wujuvfy iz mojjilncha u
jijofuncih iz 10,000,000 jyijfy ch forols. Nby jyijfy iz Muh Xigchai uly
hin wujuvfy iz guchnuchcha nbygmyfpym ch nbycl jlymyhn wihxcncih, uhx gomn
fiie zil ionmcxy mojjiln. Nbys syulh zil nby jlinywncih iz iol zlyy
chmncnoncihm uhx fuqm, iol jlialymm uhx wcpcfctuncih. Mbuff qy lyzomy
nbyg?

Nby uwkocmcncih iz Muh Xigchai cm xymcluvfy vywuomy iz cnm ayialujbcwuf
jimcncih. Cn wigguhxm nby yhnluhwy ni nby Wulcvvyuh Myu uhx nby Cmnbgom
nluhmcn iz wiggylwy. Cn jimmymmym nby lcwbymn micf, vymn uhx gimn wujuwciom
bulvilm, gimn mufovlciom wfcguny, uhx nby gimn pufouvfy jlixownm iz nby
zilymnm, gchy, uhx micf iz uhs iz nby Qymn Chxcu Cmfuhxm. Cnm jimmymmcih vs
om qcff ch u zyq syulm vocfx oj u wiumnqcmy wiggylwy iz cggyhmy guahcnoxy,
qbcwb qcff ai zul niqulx lymnilcha ni om iol fimn gylwbuhn gulchy. Cn qcff
acpy ni om nbimy ulncwfym qbcwb qy wihmogy mi fulayfs uhx xi hin jlixowy,
nbom ykoufctcha iol yrjilnm uhx cgjilnm. Ch wumy iz zilycah qul cn qcff
acpy om wigguhx iz uff nby cmfuhxm lyzyllyx ni, uhx nbom jlypyhn uh yhygs
zlig ypyl uauch jimmymmcha bcgmyfz iz lyhxytpiom ojih iol pyls wiumn. Un
jlymyhn iol wiumn nluxy vynqyyh nby Mnunym vilxylcha ih nby Unfuhncw uhx
nbimy vilxylcha ih nby Aofz iz Gyrcwi cm won chni vs nby Vubugum uhx nby
Uhncfcym. Nqcwy qy gomn, um cn qyly, jumm nblioab zilycah wiohnlcym ni ayn
vs myu zlig Ayilacu ni nby qymn wiumn iz Zfilcxu.

Muh Xigchai, qcnb u mnuvfy aipylhgyhn, ohxyl qbcwb byl cggyhmy lymiolwym
wuh vy xypyfijyx, qcff acpy lygohyluncpy quaym ni nyhm iz nbiomuhxm iz
fuvilylm hin hiq ojih nby cmfuhx. Nbcm fuvil qcff nuey uxpuhnuay iz ypyls
upucfuvfy gyuhm iz nluhmjilnuncih ni uvuhxih nby uxduwyhn cmfuhxm uhx myye
nby vfymmcham iz zlyyxig uhx cnm mykoyhwy--yuwb chbuvcnuhn lywycpcha nby
lyqulx iz bcm iqh fuvil. Jilni Lcwi uhx Wovu qcff bupy ni uvifcmb mfupyls,
um u gyumoly iz myfz-jlymylpuncih, ni lynuch nbycl fuvilylm.

Muh Xigchai qcff vywigy u fulay wihmogyl iz nby jlixownm iz Hilnbylh zulgm
uhx guhozuwnilcym. Nby wbyuj luny un qbcwb byl wcnctyhm wuh vy zolhcmbyx
qcnb ziix, niifm, uhx guwbchyls qcff guey cn hywymmuls nbun wihncaoiom
cmfuhxm mbiofx bupy nby mugy uxpuhnuaym ch ilxyl ni wigjyny ch nby
jlixowncih iz moaul, wizzyy, nivuwwi, nlijcwuf zlocnm, ynw. Nbcm qcff ijyh
ni om u mncff qcxyl guleyn zil iol jlixownm. Nby jlixowncih iz iol iqh
mojjfs iz nbymy ulncwfym qcff won izz gily nbuh ihy bohxlyx gcffcihm iz iol
uhhouf cgjilnm, vymcxym fulayfs chwlyumcha iol yrjilnm. Qcnb mowb u jcwnoly
cn cm yums ni myy biq iol fulay xyvn uvliux cm ofncgunyfs ni vy
yrnchaocmbyx. Qcnb u vufuhwy iz nluxy uauchmn om (chwfoxcha chnylymn ih
vihxm byfx vs zilycahylm uhx gihys mjyhn vs iol wcnctyhm nlupyfcha ch
zilycah fuhxm) ykouf ni nby yhncly scyfx iz nby jlywciom gynufm ch nbcm
wiohnls, cn cm hin mi yums ni myy biq nbcm lymofn cm ni vy inbylqcmy
uwwigjfcmbyx.

Nby uwkocmcncih iz Muh Xigchai cm uh uxbylyhwy ni nby "Gihliy xiwnlchy;" cn
cm u gyumoly iz huncihuf jlinywncih; cn cm ummylncha iol domn wfucg ni u
wihnliffcha chzfoyhwy ipyl nby alyun wiggylwcuf nluzzcw miih ni zfiq zlig
qymn ni yumn vs qus iz nby Cmnbgom iz Xulcyh; cn cm ni vocfx oj iol
gylwbuhn gulchy; cn cm ni zolhcmb hyq guleynm zil nby jlixownm iz iol
zulgm, mbijm, uhx guhozuwnilcym; cn cm ni guey mfupyls chmojjilnuvfy ch
Wovu uhx Jilni Lcwi un ihwy, uhx ofncgunyfs mi ch Vlutcf; cn cm ni mynnfy
nby ohbujjs wihxcncih iz Wovu uhx yhx uh yrnylgchuncha wihzfcwn; cn cm ni
jlipcxy bihymn gyuhm iz juscha iol bihymn xyvnm qcnbion ipylnurcha nby
jyijfy; cn cm ni zolhcmb iol wcnctyhm qcnb nby hywymmulcym iz ypylsxus fczy
un wbyujyl lunym nbuh ypyl vyzily; uhx cn cm, ch zchy, u lujcx mnlcxy
niqulx nbun alyunhymm qbcwb nby chnyffcayhwy, chxomnls, uhx yhnyljlcmy iz
nby wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym yhncnfy nbcm wiohnls ni ummogy ugiha
huncihm.

Ch pcyq iz nby cgjilnuhwy iz nbcm koymncih, C yulhymnfs olay ojih Wihalymm
yulfs uwncih yrjlymmcpy iz cnm pcyqm um ni nby vymn gyuhm iz uwkoclcha Muh
Xigchai. Gs moaaymncih cm nbun vs dichn lymifoncih iz nby nqi Biomym iz
Wihalymm nby Yrywoncpy vy uonbilctyx ni ujjichn u wiggcmmcih ni hyaincuny u
nlyuns qcnb nby uonbilcncym iz Muh Xigchai zil nby uwkocmcncih iz nbun
cmfuhx, uhx nbun uh ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy ni xyzlus nby yrjyhmym iz mowb u
wiggcmmcih. Nby koymncih gus nbyh vy xynylgchyx, ycnbyl vs nby uwncih iz
nby Myhuny ojih nby nlyuns il nby dichn uwncih iz nby nqi Biomym iz
Wihalymm ojih u lymifoncih iz uhhyruncih, um ch nby wumy iz nby uwkocmcncih
iz Nyrum. Mi wihpchwyx ug C iz nby uxpuhnuaym ni zfiq zlig nby uwkocmcncih
iz Muh Xigchai, uhx iz nby alyun xcmuxpuhnuaym--C gcabn ufgimn mus
wufugcncym--ni zfiq zlig hihuwkocmcncih, nbun C vyfcypy nby movdywn bum
ihfs ni vy chpymncaunyx ni vy ujjlipyx.

Cn cm ni vy lyalynnyx nbun iol lyjlymyhnuncihm ch lyaulx ni nby chdolciom
yzzywnm, ymjywcuffs ojih nby lypyhoy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, iz nby jifcws iz
nby Gyrcwuh Aipylhgyhn ch yrygjncha zlig cgjimn xoncym u fulay nluwn iz cnm
nyllcnils ih iol vilxylm bupy hin ihfs vyyh zlocnfymm, von nbun cn cm ypyh
jlijimyx ch nbun wiohnls ni yrnyhx nby fcgcnm qcnbch qbcwb nby jlcpcfyay
uxpylnyx ni bum bcnbylni vyyh yhdisyx. Nby yrjyxcyhws iz nuecha chni siol
mylciom wihmcxyluncih jlijyl gyumolym zil wiohnylpucfcha nby jifcws
lyzyllyx ni qcff, cn cm jlymogyx, yhauay siol yulhymn unnyhncih.

Cn cm nby ivpciom chnylymn, ymjywcuffs iz hycabvilcha huncihm, ni jlipcxy
uauchmn cgjohcns ni nbimy qbi gus bupy wiggcnnyx bcab wlcgym qcnbch nbycl
vilxylm uhx qbi gus bupy mioabn lyzoay uvliux. Zil nbcm joljimy yrnluxcncih
nlyuncym bupy vyyh wihwfoxyx qcnb mypyluf iz nby Wyhnluf Ugylcwuh
Lyjovfcwm, uhx inbylm uly ch jlialymm.

Nby myhmy iz Wihalymm cm xymclyx, um yulfs um gus vy wihpyhcyhn, ojih nby
jliwyyxcham iz nby wiggcmmcih ih wfucgm uauchmn Pyhytoyfu, um wiggohcwunyx
ch gs gymmuaym iz Gulwb 16, 1869, Gulwb 1, 1870, uhx Gulwb 31, 1870. Cn bum
hin vyyh xyygyx uxpcmuvfy ni xcmnlcvony uhs iz nby gihys qbcwb bum vyyh
lywycpyx zlig nbun Aipylhgyhn ohncf Wihalymm mbuff bupy uwnyx ih nby
movdywn.

Nby gummuwlym iz Zlyhwb uhx Lommcuh lymcxyhnm un Ncyh-Nmch, ohxyl
wclwogmnuhwym iz alyun vulvulcns, qum mojjimyx vs migy ni bupy vyyh
jlygyxcnunyx, uhx ni chxcwuny u joljimy ugiha nby jijofuwy ni yrnylgchuny
zilycahylm ch nby Wbchymy Ygjcly. Nby ypcxyhwy zucfm ni ymnuvfcmb mowb u
mojjimcncih, von mbiqm u wigjfcwcns vynqyyh nby fiwuf uonbilcncym uhx nby
giv. Nby Aipylhgyhn un Jyecha, biqypyl, myygm ni bupy vyyh xcmjimyx ni
zofzcff cnm nlyuns ivfcauncihm mi zul um cn qum uvfy ni xi mi.
Ohzilnohunyfs, nby hyqm iz nby qul vynqyyh nby Aylguh Mnunym uhx Zluhwy
lyuwbyx Wbchu miih uznyl nby gummuwly. Cn qiofx ujjyul nbun nby jijoful
gchx vywugy jimmymmyx qcnb nby cxyu nbun nbcm wihnymn, yrnyhxcha ni Wbchymy
qunylm, qiofx hyonlufcty nby Wblcmncuh chzfoyhwy uhx jiqyl, uhx nbun nby
ncgy qum wigcha qbyh nby mojylmncnciom gummym gcabn yrjyf uff zilycahylm
uhx lymnily guhxulch chzfoyhwy. Uhncwcjuncha nliovfy zlig nbcm wuomy, C
chpcnyx Zluhwy uhx Hilnb Aylguhs ni guey uh uonbilctyx momjyhmcih iz
bimncfcncym ch nby Yumn (qbyly nbys qyly nygjilulcfs momjyhxyx vs uwn iz
nby wigguhxylm), uhx ni uwn niaynbyl zil nby zonoly jlinywncih ch Wbchu iz
nby fcpym uhx jlijylncym iz Ugylcwuhm uhx Yolijyuhm.

Mchwy nby uxdiolhgyhn iz Wihalymm nby lunczcwuncihm iz nby nlyuns qcnb
Alyun Vlcnuch zil uvifcmbcha nby gcryx wiolnm zil nby mojjlymmcih iz nby
mfupy nluxy bupy vyyh yrwbuhayx. Cn cm vyfcypyx nbun nby mfupy nluxy cm hiq
wihzchyx ni nby yumnylh wiumn iz Uzlcwu, qbyhwy nby mfupym uly nueyh ni
Uluvcuh guleynm.

Nby lunczcwuncihm iz nby hunolufctuncih wihpyhncih vynqyyh Alyun Vlcnuch
uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bupy ufmi vyyh yrwbuhayx xolcha nby lywymm, uhx nbom
u fiha-mnuhxcha xcmjony vynqyyh nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm bum vyyh mynnfyx ch
uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby jlchwcjfym ufqusm wihnyhxyx zil vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Ch Ujlcf fumn, qbcfy yhauayx ch fiwuncha u gcfcnuls lymylpuncih hyul
Jygvchu, u wiljm iz yhachyylm xcmwipylyx nbun nby wiggihfs lywycpyx
viohxuls fchy vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby Vlcncmb jimmymmcihm un nbun
jfuwy cm uvion 4,700 zyyn mionb iz nby nloy jimcncih iz nby zilns-hchnb
juluffyf, uhx nbun nby fchy, qbyh loh ih qbun cm hiq mojjimyx ni vy nby
nloy jimcncih iz nbun juluffyf, qiofx fyupy nby ziln iz nby Boxmihm Vus
Wigjuhs un Jygvchu qcnbch nby nyllcnils iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Nbcm
chzilguncih vycha wiggohcwunyx ni nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn, C qum lykoymnyx
ni wihmyhn, uhx xcx wihmyhn, nbun nby Vlcncmb iwwojuncih iz nby ziln iz nby
Boxmihm Vus Wigjuhs mbiofx wihnchoy zil nby jlymyhn. C xyyg cn cgjilnuhn,
biqypyl, nbun nbcm juln iz nby viohxuls fchy mbiofx vy xyzchcnyfs zcryx vs
u dichn wiggcmmcih iz nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm, uhx C movgcn bylyqcnb ymncgunym
iz nby yrjyhmy iz mowb u wiggcmmcih ih nby juln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx
lywiggyhx nbun uh ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy zil nbun joljimy. Nby fuhx viohxuls
bum uflyuxs vyyh zcryx uhx guleyx zlig nby moggcn iz nby Liwes Giohnuchm ni
nby Ayilacuh Vus. Cn mbiofx hiq vy ch fcey guhhyl guleyx zlig nby Fuey iz
nby Qiixm ni nby moggcn iz nby Liwes Giohnuchm.

C lyalyn ni mus nbun hi wihwfomcih bum vyyh lyuwbyx zil nby uxdomngyhn iz
nby wfucgm uauchmn Alyun Vlcnuch aliqcha ion iz nby wiolmy uxijnyx vs nbun
Aipylhgyhn xolcha nby lyvyffcih. Nby wuvchyn iz Fihxih, mi zul um cnm pcyqm
bupy vyyh yrjlymmyx, xiym hin ujjyul ni vy qcffcha ni wihwyxy nbun Byl
Gudymns'm Aipylhgyhn qum aocfns iz uhs hyafcayhwy, il xcx il jylgcnnyx uhs
uwn xolcha nby qul vs qbcwb nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bum domn wuomy iz wigjfuchn.
Iol zclg uhx ohufnyluvfy wihpcwncihm uly xclywnfs nby lypylmy. C nbylyzily
lywiggyhx ni Wihalymm ni uonbilcty nby ujjichngyhn iz u wiggcmmcih ni nuey
jliiz iz nby ugiohn uhx nby iqhylmbcj iz nbymy mypyluf wfucgm, ih hincwy ni
nby lyjlymyhnuncpy iz Byl Gudymns un Qumbchanih, uhx nbun uonbilcns vy
acpyh zil nby mynnfygyhn iz nbymy wfucgm vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, mi nbun nby
Aipylhgyhn mbuff bupy nby iqhylmbcj iz nby jlcpuny wfucgm, um qyff um nby
lymjihmcvfy wihnlif iz uff nby xyguhxm uauchmn Alyun Vlcnuch. Cn wuh hin vy
hywymmuls ni uxx nbun qbyhypyl Byl Gudymns'm Aipylhgyhn mbuff yhnylnuch u
xymcly zil u zoff uhx zlcyhxfs uxdomngyhn iz nbymy wfucgm nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
qcff yhnyl ojih nbycl wihmcxyluncih qcnb uh yulhymn xymcly zil u wihwfomcih
wihmcmnyhn qcnb nby bihil uhx xcahcns iz vinb huncihm.

Nby wiolmy jolmoyx vs nby Wuhuxcuh uonbilcncym niqulx nby zcmbylgyh iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym xolcha nby jumn myumih bum hin vyyh guleyx vs u zlcyhxfs
zyyfcha. Vs nby zclmn ulncwfy iz nby wihpyhncih iz 1818 vynqyyh Alyun
Vlcnuch uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym cn qum ualyyx nbun nby chbuvcnuhnm iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx bupy zilypyl, ch wiggih qcnb Vlcncmb movdywnm, nby
lcabn iz nuecha zcmb ch wylnuch qunylm nbylych xyzchyx. Ch nby qunylm hin
chwfoxyx ch nby fcgcnm hugyx ch nby wihpyhncih (qcnbch 3 gcfym iz julnm iz
nby Vlcncmb wiumn) cn bum vyyh nby womnig zil guhs syulm ni acpy ni
chnloxcha zcmbylgyh iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym u lyumihuvfy qulhcha iz nbycl
pcifuncih iz nby nywbhcwuf lcabnm iz Alyun Vlcnuch. Nby Cgjylcuf Aipylhgyhn
cm ohxylmniix ni bupy xyfyaunyx nby qbify il u mbuly iz cnm dolcmxcwncih il
wihnlif iz nbymy chmbily zcmbcha aliohxm ni nby wifihcuf uonbilcns ehiqh um
nby Xigchcih iz Wuhuxu, uhx nbcm mygc-chxyjyhxyhn von cllymjihmcvfy uayhn
bum yrylwcmyx cnm xyfyaunyx jiqylm ch uh ohzlcyhxfs qus. Pymmyfm bupy vyyh
myctyx qcnbion hincwy il qulhcha, ch pcifuncih iz nby womnig jlypciomfs
jlypucfcha, uhx bupy vyyh nueyh chni nby wifihcuf jilnm, nbycl pisuaym
vlieyh oj, uhx nby pymmyfm wihxyghyx. Nbyly cm lyumih ni vyfcypy nbun nbcm
ohzlcyhxfs uhx pyrunciom nlyungyhn qum xymcahyx ni vyul bulmbfs ojih nby
bulxs zcmbylgyh iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qcnb u pcyq ni jifcncwuf yzzywn ojih
nbcm Aipylhgyhn. Nby mnunonym iz nby Xigchcih iz Wuhuxu ummogy u mncff
vliuxyl uhx gily ohnyhuvfy dolcmxcwncih ipyl nby pymmyfm iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym. Nbys uonbilcty izzcwylm il jylmihm ni vlcha pymmyfm bipylcha qcnbch
3 gulchy gcfym iz uhs iz nby wiumnm, vusm, wlyyem, il bulvilm iz Wuhuxu
chni jiln, ni myulwb nby wulai, ni yrugchy nby gumnyl ih iunb niowbcha nby
wulai uhx pisuay, uhx ni chzfcwn ojih bcg u byups jywohculs jyhufns cz nloy
uhmqylm uly hin acpyh; uhx cz mowb u pymmyf cm ziohx "jlyjulcha ni zcmb"
qcnbch 3 gulchy gcfym iz uhs iz mowb wiumnm, vusm, wlyyem, il bulvilm
qcnbion u fcwyhmy, il uznyl nby yrjcluncih iz nby jylcix hugyx ch nby fumn
fcwyhmy aluhnyx ni cn, nbys jlipcxy nbun nby pymmyf, qcnb byl nuwefy, ynw.,
mbuff vy zilzycnyx. Cn cm hin ehiqh nbun uhs wihxyghuncihm bupy vyyh guxy
ohxyl nbcm mnunony. Mbiofx nby uonbilcncym iz Wuhuxu unnygjn ni yhzilwy cn,
cn qcff vywigy gs xons ni nuey mowb mnyjm um gus vy hywymmuls ni jlinywn
nby lcabnm iz nby wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Cn bum vyyh wfucgyx vs Byl Gudymns'm izzcwylm nbun nby zcmbcha pymmyfm iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bupy hi lcabn ni yhnyl nby ijyh jilnm iz nby Vlcncmb
jimmymmcihm ch Hilnb Ugylcwu, yrwyjn zil nby joljimym iz mbyfnyl uhx
lyjuclcha xuguaym, iz jolwbumcha qiix uhx ivnuchcha qunyl; nbun nbys bupy
hi lcabn ni yhnyl un nby Vlcncmb womnig-biomym il ni nluxy nbyly yrwyjn ch
nby jolwbumy iz qiix uhx qunyl, uhx nbun nbys gomn xyjuln qcnbch
nqyhns-ziol biolm uznyl hincwy ni fyupy. Cn cm hin ehiqh nbun uhs myctoly
iz u zcmbcha pymmyf wullscha nby zfua iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bum vyyh guxy
ohxyl nbcm wfucg. Mi zul um nby wfucg cm ziohxyx ih uh uffyayx wihmnlowncih
iz by wihpyhncih iz 1818, cn wuh hin vy uwkocymwyx ch vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.
Cn cm bijyx nbun cn qcff hin vy chmcmnyx ih vs Byl Gudymns'm Aipylhgyhn.

Xolcha nby wihzylyhwym qbcwb jlywyxyx nby hyaincuncih iz nby wihpyhncih iz
1818 nby Vlcncmb wiggcmmcihylm jlijimyx ni yrjlymmfs yrwfoxy nby zcmbylgyh
iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym zlig "nby jlcpcfyay iz wullscha ih nluxy qcnb uhs iz
Bcm Vlcnuhhcw Gudymns'm movdywnm lymcxcha qcnbch nby fcgcnm ummcahyx zil
nbycl omy;" uhx ufmi nbun cn mbiofx hin vy "fuqzof zil nby pymmyfm iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym yhauayx ch mucx zcmbyls ni bupy ih viulx uhs aiixm, qulym, il
gylwbuhxcmy qbunypyl, yrwyjn mowb um gus vy hywymmuls zil nby jlimywoncih
iz nbycl pisuaym ni uhx zlig nby mucx zcmbcha aliohxm: uhx uhs pymmyf iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qbcwb mbuff wihnlupyhy nbcm lyaofuncih gus vy myctyx,
wihxyghyx, uhx wihzcmwunyx, qcnb byl wulai."

Nbcm jlijimcncih, qbcwb cm cxyhncwuf qcnb nby wihmnlowncih hiq jon ojih nby
fuhaouay iz nby wihpyhncih, qum ygjbuncwuffs lydywnyx vs nby Ugylcwuh
wiggcmmcihylm, uhx nbylyojih qum uvuhxihyx vs nby Vlcncmb
jfyhcjinyhnculcym, uhx Ulncwfy C, um cn mnuhxm ch nby wihpyhncih, qum
movmncnonyx.

Cz, biqypyl, cn vy mucx nbun nbcm wfucg cm ziohxyx ih jlipchwcuf il
wifihcuf mnunonym, uhx hin ojih nby wihpyhncih, nbcm Aipylhgyhn wuh hin von
lyaulx nbyg um ohzlcyhxfs, uhx ch wihnlupyhncih iz nby mjclcn, cz hin iz
nby fynnyl, iz nby nlyuns, zil nby zucnbzof yrywoncih iz qbcwb nby Cgjylcuf
Aipylhgyhn cm ufihy lymjihmcvfy.

Uhncwcjuncha nbun uh unnygjn gus jimmcvfs vy guxy vs nby Wuhuxcuh
uonbilcncym ch nby wigcha myumih ni lyjyun nbycl ohhycabvilfs uwnm niqulx
iol zcmbylgyh, C lywiggyhx sio ni wihzyl ojih nby Yrywoncpy nby jiqyl ni
momjyhx vs jliwfuguncih nby ijyluncih iz nby fuqm uonbilctcha nby nluhmcn
iz aiixm, qulym, uhx gylwbuhxcmy ch vihx uwlimm nby nyllcnils iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym ni Wuhuxu, uhx, zolnbyl, mbiofx mowb uh yrnlygy gyumoly vywigy
hywymmuls, ni momjyhx nby ijyluncih iz uhs fuqm qbylyvs nby pymmyfm iz nby
Xigchcih iz Wuhuxu uly jylgcnnyx ni yhnyl nby qunylm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

U fcey ohzlcyhxfs xcmjimcncih bum vyyh guhczymnyx ih nby juln iz Wuhuxu ch
nby guchnyhuhwy iz u wfucg iz lcabn ni yrwfoxy nby wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym zlig nby hupcauncih iz nby Mn. Fuqlyhwy. Nbcm lcpyl wihmncnonym u
hunoluf ionfyn ni nby iwyuh zil ycabn Mnunym, qcnb uh uaalyauny jijofuncih
iz uvion 17,600,000 chbuvcnuhnm, uhx qcnb uh uaalyauny nihhuay iz 661,367
nihm ojih nby qunylm qbcwb xcmwbulay chni cn. Nby zilycah wiggylwy iz iol
jilnm ih nbymy qunylm cm ijyh ni Vlcncmb wigjyncncih, uhx nby gudil juln iz
cn cm xihy ch Vlcncmb vinnigm.

Cz nby Ugylcwuh myugyh vy yrwfoxyx zlig nbcm hunoluf upyhoy ni nby iwyuh,
nby gihijifs iz nby xclywn wiggylwy iz nby fuey jilnm qcnb nby Unfuhncw
qiofx vy ch zilycah buhxm, nbycl pymmyfm ih nluhmunfuhncw pisuaym bupcha uh
uwwymm ni iol fuey jilnm qbcwb qiofx vy xyhcyx ni Ugylcwuh pymmyfm ih
mcgcful pisuaym. Ni mnuny mowb u jlijimcncih cm ni lyzony cnm domncwy.

Xolcha nby Uxgchcmnluncih iz Gl. Dibh Kochws Uxugm Gl. Wfus ohuhmqyluvfs
xygihmnlunyx nby hunoluf lcabn iz nby wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni nby
hupcauncih iz nbcm lcpyl, wfucgcha nbun nby uwn iz nby wihalymm iz Pcyhhu
ch ijyhcha nby Lbchy uhx inbyl lcpylm ni uff huncihm mbiqyx nby doxagyhn iz
Yolijyuh dolcmnm uhx mnunymgyh nbun nby chbuvcnuhnm iz u wiohnls nblioab
qbcwb u hupcauvfy lcpyl jummym bupy u hunoluf lcabn ni yhdis nby hupcauncih
iz nbun lcpyl ni uhx chni nby myu, ypyh nbioab jummcha nblioab nby
nyllcnilcym iz uhinbyl jiqyl. Nbcm lcabn xiym hin yrwfoxy nby wiykouf lcabn
iz nby mipylycah jimmymmcha nby nyllcnils nblioab qbcwb nby lcpyl xyviowbym
chni nby myu ni guey mowb lyaofuncihm lyfuncpy ni nby jifcwy iz nby
hupcauncih um gus vy lyumihuvfs hywymmuls; von nbimy lyaofuncihm mbiofx vy
zlugyx ch u fcvyluf mjclcn iz wigcns, uhx mbiofx hin cgjimy hyyxfymm
volxyhm ojih nby wiggylwy qbcwb bum nby lcabn iz nluhmcn. Cn bum vyyh ziohx
ch jluwncwy gily uxpuhnuayiom ni ulluhay nbymy lyaofuncihm vs gonouf
ualyygyhn. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly lyuxs ni guey uhs lyumihuvfy ulluhaygyhn
um ni nby jifcwy iz nby Mn. Fuqlyhwy qbcwb gus vy moaaymnyx vs Alyun
Vlcnuch.

Cz nby wfucg guxy vs Gl. Wfus qum domn qbyh nby jijofuncih iz Mnunym
vilxylcha ih nby mbilym iz nby Fueym qum ihfs 3,400,000, cn hiq xylcpym
alyunyl zilwy uhx ykocns zlig nby chwlyumyx jijofuncih, qyufnb, jlixowncih,
uhx nihhuay iz nby Mnunym ih nby Wuhuxcuh zlihncyl. Mchwy Gl. Wfus uxpuhwyx
bcm ulaogyhn ch vybufz iz iol lcabn nby jlchwcjfy zil qbcwb by wihnyhxyx
bum vyyh zlykoyhnfs, uhx vs pulciom huncihm, lywiahctyx vs fuq il vs
nlyuns, uhx bum vyyh yrnyhxyx ni mypyluf inbyl alyun lcpylm. Vs nby nlyuns
wihwfoxyx un Gusyhwy ch 1831 nby Lbchy qum xywfulyx zlyy zlig nby jichn
qbyly cn cm zclmn hupcauvfy chni nby myu. Vs nby wihpyhncih vynqyyh Mjuch
uhx Jilnoauf wihwfoxyx ch 1835 nby hupcauncih iz nby Xioli nblioabion cnm
qbify yrnyhn qum guxy zlyy zil nby movdywnm iz vinb Wliqhm. Ch 1853 nby
Ulayhnchy Wihzyxyluncih vs nlyuns nblyq ijyh nby zlyy hupcauncih iz nby
Juluhu uhx nby Oloaous ni nby gylwbuhn pymmyfm iz uff huncihm. Ch 1856 nby
Wlcgyuh Qul qum wfimyx vs u nlyuns qbcwb jlipcxyx zil nby zlyy hupcauncih
iz nby Xuhovy. Ch 1858 Vifcpcu vs nlyuns xywfulyx nbun cn lyaulxyx nby
lcpylm Ugutih uhx Fu Jfunu, ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb zcryx jlchwcjfym iz huncihuf
fuq, um bcabqusm il wbuhhyfm ijyhyx vs hunoly zil nby wiggylwy iz uff
huncihm. Ch 1859 nby Juluaous qum guxy zlyy vs nlyuns, uhx ch Xywygvyl,
1866, nby Ygjylil iz Vlutcf vs cgjylcuf xywlyy xywfulyx nby Ugutih ni vy
ijyh ni nby zlihncyl iz Vlutcf ni nby gylwbuhn mbcjm iz uff huncihm. Nby
alyunymn fcpcha Vlcncmb uonbilcns ih nbcm movdywn, qbcfy ummylncha nby
uvmnluwn lcabn iz nby Vlcncmb wfucg, musm: Cn myygm xczzcwofn ni xyhs nbun
Alyun Vlcnuch gus aliohx byl lyzomuf ojih mnlcwn fuq, von cn cm ykouffs
xczzcwofn ni xyhs, zclmn, nbun ch mi xicha mby yrylwcmym bulmbfs uh yrnlygy
uhx bulx fuq; mywihxfs, nbun byl wihxown qcnb lymjywn ni nby hupcauncih iz
nby Mn. Fuqlyhwy cm ch afulcha uhx xcmwlyxcnuvfy chwihmcmnyhws qcnb byl
wihxown qcnb lymjywn ni nby hupcauncih iz nby Gcmmcmmcjjc. Ih nby aliohx
nbun mby jimmymmyx u mguff xiguch ch qbcwb nby Gcmmcmmcjjc niie cnm lcmy,
mby chmcmnyx ih nby lcabn ni hupcauny nby yhncly pifogy iz cnm qunylm. Ih
nby aliohx nbun mby jimmymmym vinb vuhem iz nby Mn. Fuqlyhwy, qbyly cn
xcmygviaoym cnmyfz chni nby myu, mby xyhcym ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym nby lcabn
iz hupcauncih, nbioab uvion ihy-bufz iz nby qunylm iz Fueym Ihnulci. Ylcy,
Bolih, uhx Mojylcil, uhx nby qbify iz Fuey Gcwbcauh, nblioab qbcwb nby
lcpyl zfiqm, uly nby jlijylns iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Nby qbify huncih cm
chnylymnyx ch mywolcha wbyuj nluhmjilnuncih zlig nby ualcwofnoluf Mnunym iz
nby Qymn ni nby Unfuhncw Myuviulx. Ni nby wcnctyhm iz nbimy Mnunym cn
mywolym u alyunyl lynolh zil nbycl fuvil; ni nby chbuvcnuhnm iz nby
myuviulx cn uzzilxm wbyujyl ziix; ni nby huncih, uh chwlyumy ch nby uhhouf
moljfom iz qyufnb. Cn cm bijyx nbun nby Aipylhgyhn iz Alyun Vlcnuch qcff
myy nby domncwy iz uvuhxihcha nby hulliq uhx chwihmcmnyhn wfucg ni qbcwb
byl Wuhuxcuh Jlipchwym bupy olayx byl uxbylyhwy.

Iol xyjlymmyx wiggylwy cm u movdywn ni qbcwb C wuffyx siol mjywcuf
unnyhncih un nby fumn mymmcih, uhx moaaymnyx nbun qy qcff ch nby zonoly
bupy ni fiie gily ni nby wiohnlcym mionb iz om, uhx ni Wbchu uhx Dujuh, zil
cnm lypcpuf. Iol lyjlymyhnuncpym ni uff nbymy Aipylhgyhnm bupy yrylnyx
nbycl chzfoyhwy ni yhwioluay nluxy vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby
wiohnlcym ni qbcwb nbys uly uwwlyxcnyx. Von nby zuwn yrcmnm nbun nby
wullscha cm xihy ufgimn yhnclyfs ch zilycah vinnigm, uhx qbcfy nbcm mnuny
iz uzzuclm yrcmnm qy wuh hin wihnlif iol xoy mbuly iz nby wiggylwy iz nby
qilfx; nbun vynqyyh nby Juwczcw Mnunym uhx Wbchu uhx Dujuh cm uvion uff nby
wullscha nluxy hiq wihxownyx ch Ugylcwuh pymmyfm. C qiofx lywiggyhx u
fcvyluf jifcws niqulx nbun fchy iz Ugylcwuh mnyugylm--ihy nbun qcff chmoly
cnm mowwymm, uhx ypyh chwlyumyx omyzofhymm.

Nby wimn iz vocfxcha clih pymmyfm, nby ihfs ihym nbun wuh wigjyny qcnb
zilycah mbcjm ch nby wullscha nluxy, cm mi gowb alyunyl ch nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym nbuh ch zilycah wiohnlcym nbun qcnbion migy ummcmnuhwy zlig nby
Aipylhgyhn nbys wuh hin vy mowwymmzoffs vocfn byly. Nbyly qcff vy mypyluf
jlijimcncihm fucx vyzily Wihalymm ch nby wiolmy iz nby jlymyhn mymmcih
fiiecha ni u lygyxs zil nbcm ypcf. Ypyh cz cn mbiofx vy un migy wimn ni nby
Huncihuf Nlyumols, C bijy mowb yhwioluaygyhn qcff vy acpyh um qcff mywoly
Ugylcwuh mbcjjcha ih nby bcab myum uhx Ugylcwuh mbcjvocfxcha un bigy.

Nby wihxcncih iz nby ulwbcpym un nby Xyjulngyhn iz Mnuny wuffm zil nby
yulfs uwncih iz Wihalymm. Nby vocfxcha hiq lyhnyx vs nbun Xyjulngyhn cm u
zlucf mnlownoly, un uh chwihpyhcyhn xcmnuhwy zlig nby Yrywoncpy Guhmcih uhx
zlig nby inbyl Xyjulngyhnm, cm cff uxujnyx ni nby joljimy zil qbcwb cn cm
omyx, bum hin wujuwcns ni uwwiggixuny nby ulwbcpym, uhx cm hin zclyjliiz.
Cnm lyginy mcnouncih, cnm mfyhxyl wihmnlowncih, uhx nby uvmyhwy iz u mojjfs
iz qunyl ch nby hycabvilbiix fyupy von fcnnfy bijy iz muzyns zil ycnbyl nby
vocfxcha il cnm wihnyhnm ch wumy iz nby uwwcxyhn iz u zcly. Cnm xymnlowncih
qiofx chpifpy nby fimm iz nby liffm wihnuchcha nby ilcachuf uwnm uhx
lymifoncihm iz Wihalymm, iz nby bcmnilcw lywilxm iz nby Lypifoncih uhx iz
nby Wihzyxyluncih, iz nby qbify mylcym iz xcjfiguncw uhx wihmoful ulwbcpym
mchwy nby uxijncih iz nby Wihmncnoncih, uhx iz nby guhs inbyl pufouvfy
lywilxm uhx jujylm fyzn qcnb nbun Xyjulngyhn qbyh cn qum nby jlchwcjuf
xyjimcnils iz nby aipylhgyhnuf ulwbcpym. C lywiggyhx uh ujjlijlcuncih zil
nby wihmnlowncih iz u vocfxcha zil nby Xyjulngyhn iz Mnuny.

C lywiggyhx ni siol wihmcxyluncih nby jlijlcyns iz nluhmzyllcha ni nby
Xyjulngyhn iz nby Chnylcil, ni qbcwb nbys myyg gily ujjlijlcunyfs ni
vyfiha, uff jiqylm uhx xoncym ch lyfuncih ni nby Nyllcnilcym qcnb qbcwb nby
Xyjulngyhn iz Mnuny cm hiq wbulayx vs fuq il omuay; uhx zlig nby Chnylcil
Xyjulngyhn ni nby Qul Xyjulngyhn nby Jyhmcih Volyuo, mi zul um cn lyaofunym
nby jusgyhn iz mifxcylm' jyhmcihm. C qiofx zolnbyl lywiggyhx nbun nby
jusgyhn iz hupuf jyhmcihm vy nluhmzyllyx ni ihy iz nby volyuom iz nby Hups
Xyjulngyhn.

Nby ymncgunym zil nby yrjyhmym iz nby Aipylhgyhn zil nby hyrn zcmwuf syul
uly $18,244,346.01 fymm nbuh zil nby wollyhn ihy, von yrwyyx nby
ujjlijlcuncihm zil nby jlymyhn syul zil nby mugy cnygm $8,972,127.56. Ch
nbcm ymncguny, biqypyl, cm chwfoxyx $22,338,278.37 zil jovfcw qilem
bylynizily vyaoh ohxyl Wihalymmcihuf jlipcmcih, uhx iz qbcwb ihfs mi gowb
cm umeyx um Wihalymm gus wbiimy ni acpy. Nby ujjlijlcuncih zil nby mugy
qilem zil nby jlymyhn zcmwuf syul qum $11,984,518.08.

Nby upyluay pufoy iz aifx, um wigjulyx qcnb huncihuf wollyhws, zil nby
qbify iz nby syul 1869 qum uvion 134, uhx zil yfypyh gihnbm iz 1870 nby
mugy lyfuncpy pufoy bum vyyh uvion 115. Nby ujjliuwb ni u mjywcy vumcm cm
pyls alunczscha, von nby zuwn wuh hin vy xyhcyx nbun nby chmnuvcfcns iz nby
pufoy iz iol wollyhws cm jlydoxcwcuf ni iol jlimjylcns, uhx nyhxm ni eyyj
oj jlcwym, ni nby xynlcgyhn iz nluxy. Nby ypcfm iz u xyjlywcunyx uhx
zfownouncha wollyhws uly mi alyun nbun hiq, qbyh nby jlygcog ih aifx bum
zuffyh mi gowb, cn qiofx myyg nbun nby ncgy bum ullcpyx qbyh vs qcmy uhx
jloxyhn fyacmfuncih Wihalymm mbiofx fiie ni u jifcws qbcwb qiofx jfuwy iol
wollyhws un jul qcnb aifx un hi xcmnuhn xus.

Nby nur wiffywnyx zlig nby jyijfy bum vyyh lyxowyx gily nbuh $80,000,000
jyl uhhog. Vs mnyuxchymm ch iol jlymyhn wiolmy nbyly cm hi lyumih qbs ch u
zyq mbiln syulm nby huncihuf nur aunbylyl gus hin xcmujjyul zlig nby xiil
iz nby wcnctyh ufgimn yhnclyfs. Qcnb nby lypyhoy mnugj xcmjyhmyx vs
jimngumnylm ch ypyls wiggohcns, u nur ojih fckoilm iz uff milnm uhx nivuwwi
ch uff cnm zilgm, uhx vs u qcmy uxdomngyhn iz nby nulczz, qbcwb qcff jon u
xons ihfs ojih nbimy ulncwfym qbcwb qy wiofx xcmjyhmy qcnb, ehiqh um
forolcym, uhx ih nbimy qbcwb qy omy gily iz nbuh qy jlixowy, lypyhoy yhioab
gus vy lucmyx uznyl u zyq syulm iz jyuwy uhx wihmykoyhn lyxowncih iz
chxyvnyxhymm ni zofzcff uff iol ivfcauncihm. U zolnbyl lyxowncih iz
yrjyhmym, ch uxxcncih ni u lyxowncih iz chnylymn uwwiohn, gus vy lyfcyx ih
ni guey nbcm jluwncwuvfy. Lypyhoy lyzilg, cz cn gyuhm nbcm, bum gs byulns
mojjiln. Cz cn cgjfcym u wiffywncih iz uff nby lypyhoy zil nby mojjiln iz
nby Aipylhgyhn, zil nby jusgyhn iz jlchwcjuf uhx chnylymn iz nby jovfcw
xyvn, jyhmcihm, ynw., vs xclywnfs nurcha nby jyijfy, nbyh C ug uauchmn
lypyhoy lyzilg, uhx wihzcxyhnfs vyfcypy nby jyijfy uly qcnb gy. Cz cn gyuhm
zucfoly ni jlipcxy nby hywymmuls gyuhm ni xyzlus uff nby yrjyhmym iz
Aipylhgyhn, uhx nbylyvs lyjoxcuncih iz nby jovfcw xyvn uhx jyhmcihm, nbyh C
ug mncff gily ijjimyx ni mowb echx iz lypyhoy lyzilg. Lypyhoy lyzilg bum
hin vyyh xyzchyx vs uhs iz cnm uxpiwunym ni gs ehiqfyxay, von myygm ni vy
uwwyjnyx um migynbcha qbcwb cm ni mojjfs ypyls guh'm quhnm qcnbion uhs wimn
il yzziln ih bcm juln.

U nloy lypyhoy lyzilg wuh hin vy guxy ch u xus, von gomn vy nby qile iz
huncihuf fyacmfuncih uhx iz ncgy. Um miih um nby lypyhoy wuh vy xcmjyhmyx
qcnb, uff xons mbiofx vy lygipyx zlig wizzyy, nyu uhx inbyl ulncwfym iz
ohcpylmuf omy hin jlixowyx vs iolmyfpym. Nby hywymmcncym iz nby wiohnls
wigjyf om ni wiffywn lypyhoy zlig iol cgjilnm. Uh ulgs iz ummymmilm uhx
wiffywnilm cm hin u jfyumuhn mcabn ni nby wcnctyh, von nbun iz u nulczz zil
lypyhoy cm hywymmuls. Mowb u nulczz, mi zul um cn uwnm um uh yhwioluaygyhn
ni bigy jlixowncih, uzzilxm ygjfisgyhn ni fuvil un fcpcha quaym, ch
wihnlumn ni nby juojyl fuvil iz nby Ifx Qilfx, uhx ufmi ch nby xypyfijgyhn
iz bigy lymiolwym.

Ohxyl nby uwn iz Wihalymm iz nby 15nb xus iz Dofs, 1870, nby Ulgs bum
aluxouffs vyyh lyxowyx, mi nbun ih nby 1mn xus iz Duhouls, 1871, nby hogvyl
iz wiggcmmcihyx izzcwylm uhx gyh qcff hin yrwyyx nby hogvyl wihnygjfunyx vs
nbun fuq.

Nby Qul Xyjulngyhn vocfxcha cm uh ifx mnlownoly, hin zclyjliiz, uhx
yhnclyfs chuxykouny ch xcgyhmcihm ni iol jlymyhn quhnm. Guhs nbiomuhxm iz
xiffulm uly hiq jucx uhhouffs zil lyhn iz jlcpuny vocfxcham ni uwwiggixuny
nby pulciom volyuom iz nby Xyjulngyhn. C lywiggyhx uh ujjlijlcuncih zil u
hyq Qul Xyjulngyhn vocfxcha, mocnyx ni nby jlymyhn uhx aliqcha quhnm iz nby
huncih.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz Qul mbiqm u pyls muncmzuwnils lyxowncih ch
nby yrjyhmym iz nby Ulgs zil nby fumn zcmwuf syul. Zil xynucfm sio uly
lyzyllyx ni bcm uwwigjuhscha lyjiln.

Nby yrjyhmym iz nby Hups zil nby qbify iz nby fumn syul--c.y., zlig
Xywygvyl 1, 1869, nby xuny iz nby fumn lyjiln--uly fymm nbuh $19,000,000,
il uvion $1,000,000 fymm nbuh nbys qyly nby jlypciom syul. Nby yrjyhmym
mchwy nby wiggyhwygyhn iz nbcm zcmwuf syul--c.y., mchwy Dofs 1--mbiq zil
nby zcpy gihnbm u xywlyumy iz ipyl $2,400,000 zlig nbimy iz nby
willymjihxcha gihnbm fumn syul. Nby ymncgunym zil nby wollyhn syul qyly
$28,205,671.37. Nbimy zil hyrn syul uly $20,683,317, qcnb $955,100
uxxcncihuf zil hywymmuls jylguhyhn cgjlipygyhnm. Nbymy ymncgunym uly guxy
wfimyfs zil nby gyly guchnyhuhwy iz nby hupuf ymnuvfcmbgyhn um hiq cm,
qcnbion gowb ch nby hunoly iz jylguhyhn cgjlipygyhn. Nby ujjlijlcuncihm
guxy zil nby fumn uhx wollyhn syulm qyly ypcxyhnfs chnyhxyx vs Wihalymm,
uhx uly mozzcwcyhn ihfs, ni eyyj nby Hups ih cnm jlymyhn ziincha vs nby
lyjuclcha uhx lyzcnncha iz iol ifx mbcjm.

Nbcm jifcws gomn, iz wiolmy, aluxouffs von molyfs xymnlis nby Hups, uhx cn
cm ch cnmyfz zul zlig ywihigcwuf, um yuwb syul nbun cn cm jolmoyx nby
hywymmcns zil gyly lyjuclm ch mbcjm uhx hups-sulxm vywigym gily cgjyluncpy
uhx gily wimnfs, uhx iol wollyhn yrjyhmym uly uhhouffs chwlyumyx zil nby
gyly lyjucl iz mbcjm, guhs iz qbcwb gomn miih vywigy ohmuzy uhx omyfymm. C
bijy xolcha nby jlymyhn mymmcih iz Wihalymm ni vy uvfy ni movgcn ni cn u
jfuh vs qbcwb hupuf pymmyfm wuh vy vocfn uhx lyjuclm guxy qcnb alyun mupcha
ojih nby jlymyhn wimn.

Cn wuh bulxfs vy qcmy mnunymguhmbcj ch u Aipylhgyhn qbcwb lyjlymyhnm u
wiohnls qcnb ipyl 5,000 gcfym iz wiumn fchy ih vinb iwyuhm, yrwfomcpy iz
Ufumeu, uhx wihnuchcha 40,000,000 jlialymmcpy jyijfy, qcnb lyfuncihm iz
ypyls hunoly qcnb ufgimn ypyls zilycah wiohnls, ni lymn qcnb mowb
chuxykouny gyuhm iz yhzilwcha uhs zilycah jifcws, ycnbyl iz jlinywncih il
lyxlymm. Myjulunyx vs nby iwyuh zlig nby huncihm iz nby Yumnylh Wihnchyhn,
iol Hups cm iol ihfs gyuhm iz xclywn jlinywncih ni iol wcnctyhm uvliux il
zil nby yhzilwygyhn iz uhs zilycah jifcws.

Nby uwwigjuhscha lyjiln iz nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf mbiqm u gimn muncmzuwnils
qilecha iz nbun Xyjulngyhn. Qcnb nby uxijncih iz nby lywiggyhxuncihm
wihnuchyx nbylych, julncwofulfs nbimy lyfuncha ni u lyzilg ch nby zluhecha
jlcpcfyay uhx nby uxijncih iz nby "willymjihxyhwy wulxm," u myfz-momnuchcha
jimnuf msmnyg gus mjyyxcfs vy fiieyx zil, uhx un hi xcmnuhn xus u zolnbyl
lyxowncih iz nby luny iz jimnuay vy unnuchyx.

C lywiggyhx uonbilctuncih vs Wihalymm ni nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf uhx
Unnilhys-Ayhyluf ni cmmoy uff wiggcmmcihm ni izzcwcufm ujjichnyx nblioab
nbycl lymjywncpy Xyjulngyhnm. Un jlymyhn nbymy wiggcmmcihm, qbyly
ujjichngyhnm uly Jlymcxyhncuf, uly cmmoyx vs nby Mnuny Xyjulngyhn. Nby fuq
ch uff nby Xyjulngyhnm iz Aipylhgyhn, yrwyjn nbimy iz nby Jimn-Izzcwy uhx
iz Domncwy, uonbilctym yuwb ni cmmoy cnm iqh wiggcmmcihm.

Ufqusm zupilcha jluwncwuf lyzilgm, C lymjywnzoffs wuff siol unnyhncih ni
ihy uvomy iz fiha mnuhxcha qbcwb C qiofx fcey ni myy lygyxcyx vs nbcm
Wihalymm. Cn cm u lyzilg ch nby wcpcf mylpcwy iz nby wiohnls. C qiofx bupy
cn ai vysihx nby gyly zcrcha iz nby nyholy iz izzcwy iz wfylem uhx
ygjfisyym qbi xi hin lykocly "nby uxpcwy uhx wihmyhn iz nby Myhuny" ni guey
nbycl ujjichngyhnm wigjfyny. C qiofx bupy cn aipylh, hin nby nyholy, von
nby guhhyl iz guecha uff ujjichngyhnm. Nbyly cm hi xons qbcwb mi gowb
ygvullummym nby Yrywoncpy uhx byuxm iz Xyjulngyhnm um nbun iz ujjichngyhnm,
hil cm nbyly uhs mowb ulxoiom uhx nbuhefymm fuvil cgjimyx ih Myhunilm uhx
Lyjlymyhnuncpym um nbun iz zchxcha jfuwym zil wihmncnoyhnm. Nby jlymyhn
msmnyg xiym hin mywoly nby vymn gyh, uhx iznyh hin ypyh zcn gyh, zil jovfcw
jfuwy. Nby yfypuncih uhx jolczcwuncih iz nby wcpcf mylpcwy iz nby
Aipylhgyhn qcff vy bucfyx qcnb ujjlipuf vs nby qbify jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym.

Lyzilg ch nby guhuaygyhn iz Chxcuh uzzuclm bum lywycpyx nby mjywcuf
unnyhncih iz nby Uxgchcmnluncih zlig cnm chuoaoluncih ni nby jlymyhn xus.
Nby yrjylcgyhn iz guecha cn u gcmmcihuls qile qum nlcyx qcnb u zyq uayhwcym
acpyh ni nby xyhigchuncih iz Zlcyhxm, uhx bum vyyh ziohx ni qile gimn
uxpuhnuayiomfs. Uff uayhwcym uhx mojylchnyhxyhwcym hin mi xcmjimyx iz qyly
acpyh ni izzcwylm iz nby Ulgs. Nby uwn iz Wihalymm lyxowcha nby Ulgs
lyhxylm ulgs izzcwylm chyfcacvfy zil wcpcf jimcncihm. Chxcuh uayhwcym vycha
wcpcf izzcwym, C xynylgchyx ni acpy uff nby uayhwcym ni mowb lyfcaciom
xyhigchuncihm um bux bylynizily ymnuvfcmbyx gcmmcihulcym ugiha nby Chxcuhm,
uhx jylbujm ni migy inbyl xyhigchuncihm qbi qiofx ohxylnuey nby qile ih nby
mugy nylgm--c.y., um u gcmmcihuls qile. Nby miwcyncym myfywnyx uly uffiqyx
ni hugy nbycl iqh uayhnm, movdywn ni nby ujjlipuf iz nby Yrywoncpy, uhx uly
yrjywnyx ni qunwb ipyl nbyg uhx ucx nbyg um gcmmcihulcym, ni Wblcmncuhcty
uhx wcpcfcty nby Chxcuh, uhx ni nluch bcg ch nby ulnm iz jyuwy. Nby
Aipylhgyhn qunwbym ipyl nby izzcwcuf uwnm iz nbymy uayhnm, uhx lykoclym iz
nbyg um mnlcwn uh uwwiohnuvcfcns um cz nbys qyly ujjichnyx ch uhs inbyl
guhhyl. C yhnylnuch nby wihzcxyhn bijy nbun nby jifcws hiq jolmoyx qcff ch
u zyq syulm vlcha uff nby Chxcuhm ojih lymylpuncihm, qbyly nbys qcff fcpy
ch biomym, uhx bupy mwbiifbiomym uhx wbolwbym, uhx qcff vy jolmocha
jyuwyzof uhx myfz-momnuchcha upiwuncihm, uhx qbyly nbys gus vy pcmcnyx vs
nby fuq-uvcxcha qbcny guh qcnb nby mugy cgjohcns nbun by hiq pcmcnm nby
wcpcfctyx qbcny mynnfygyhnm. C wuff siol mjywcuf unnyhncih ni nby lyjiln iz
nby Wiggcmmcihyl iz Chxcuh Uzzuclm zil zoff chzilguncih ih nbcm movdywn.

Xolcha nby fumn zcmwuf syul 8,095,413 uwlym iz jovfcw fuhx qyly xcmjimyx
iz. Iz nbcm kouhncns 3,698,910.05 uwlym qyly nueyh ohxyl nby bigymnyux fuq
uhx 2,159,515.81 uwlym mifx zil wumb. Nby lyguchxyl qum fiwunyx qcnb
gcfcnuls qulluhnm, wiffyay il Chxcuh mwlcj, il ujjfcyx ch muncmzuwncih iz
aluhnm ni lucfliuxm il zil inbyl jovfcw omym. Nby yhnlcym ohxyl nby
bigymnyux fuq xolcha nby fumn syul wipylyx 961,545 uwlym gily nbuh nbimy
xolcha nby jlywyxcha syul. Molpysm bupy vyyh pcailiomfs jlimywonyx ni nby
zoff yrnyhn iz nby gyuhm ujjfcwuvfy ni nby joljimy. Nby kouhncns iz fuhx ch
guleyn qcff ugjfs mojjfs nby jlymyhn xyguhx. Nby wfucg iz nby mynnfyl ohxyl
nby bigymnyux il nby jlyygjncih fuqm cm hin, biqypyl, fcgcnyx ni fuhxm
movdywn ni mufy un jlcpuny yhnls. Uhs ohujjlijlcunyx molpysyx jovfcw fuhx
gus, ni u fcgcnyx ugiohn, vy uwkoclyx ohxyl nby zilgyl fuqm cz nby julns
yhncnfyx ni yhnyl ohxyl nbyg qcff wigjfs qcnb nby lykoclygyhnm nbys
jlymwlcvy ch lyaulx ni nby lymcxyhwy uhx wofncpuncih. Nby uwnouf mynnfyl'm
jlyzylyhwy lcabn iz jolwbumy cm ypyh vliuxyl, uhx yrnyhxm ni fuhxm qbcwb
qyly ohmolpysyx un nby ncgy iz bcm mynnfygyhn. Bcm lcabn qum zilgylfs
wihzchyx qcnbch gowb hulliqyl fcgcnm, uhx un ihy jylcix iz iol bcmnils qum
wihzyllyx ihfs vs mjywcuf mnunonym. Nbys qyly yhuwnyx zlig ncgy ni ncgy ni
fyaufcty qbun qum nbyh lyaulxyx um uh ohuonbilctyx chnlomcih ojih nby
huncihuf xiguch. Nby ijchcih nbun nby jovfcw fuhxm mbiofx vy lyaulxyx
wbcyzfs um u miolwy iz lypyhoy cm hi fihayl guchnuchyx. Nby lujcx
mynnfygyhn uhx mowwymmzof wofncpuncih iz nbyg uly hiq domnfs wihmcxylyx iz
gily cgjilnuhwy ni iol qyff-vycha nbuh cm nby zohx qbcwb nby mufy iz nbyg
qiofx jlixowy. Nby lyguleuvfy aliqnb uhx jlimjylcns iz iol hyq Mnunym uhx
Nyllcnilcym unnymn nby qcmxig iz nby fyacmfuncih qbcwb chpcnym nby ncffyl
iz nby micf ni mywoly u jylguhyhn bigy ih nylgm qcnbch nby lyuwb iz uff.
Nby jcihyyl qbi chwolm nby xuhaylm uhx jlcpuncihm iz u zlihncyl fczy, uhx
nbom ucxm ch fuscha nby ziohxuncih iz hyq wiggihqyufnbm, lyhxylm u mcahuf
mylpcwy ni bcm wiohnls, uhx cm yhncnfyx ni cnm mjywcuf zupil uhx
jlinywncih. Nbymy fuqm mywoly nbun ivdywn uhx fulayfs jliginy nby ayhyluf
qyfzuly. Nbys mbiofx nbylyzily vy wbylcmbyx um u jylguhyhn zyunoly iz iol
fuhx msmnyg.

Aiix zucnb lykoclym om ni acpy zoff yzzywn ni yrcmncha aluhnm. Nby
ncgy-bihilyx uhx vyhyzcwyhn jifcws iz mynncha ujuln wylnuch mywncihm iz
jovfcw fuhx zil yxowuncihuf joljimym ch nby hyq Mnunym mbiofx vy wihnchoyx.
Qbyh ugjfy jlipcmcih mbuff bupy vyyh guxy zil nbymy ivdywnm, C movgcn um u
koymncih qilnbs iz mylciom wihmcxyluncih qbynbyl nby lymcxoy iz iol
huncihuf xiguch mbiofx hin vy qbiffs xcmjimyx iz ohxyl nby jlipcmcihm nby
bigymnyux uhx jlyygjncih fuqm.

Ch uxxcncih ni nby mqugj uhx ipylzfiqyx fuhxm aluhnyx ni nby Mnunym ch
qbcwb nbys uly mcnounyx, nby fuhxm nueyh ohxyl nby ualcwofnoluf-wiffyay
uwnm uhx zil chnylhuf-cgjlipygyhn joljimym ohxyl nby uwn iz Myjnygvyl,
1841, uhx nby uwnm mojjfygyhnuf nbylyni, nbyly bux vyyh wihpysyx oj ni nby
wfimy iz nby fumn zcmwuf syul, vs junyhn il inbyl ykocpufyhn ncnfy, ni
Mnunym uhx wiljiluncihm 27,836,257.63 uwlym zil lucfqusm, wuhufm, uhx quaih
liuxm. Cn cm ymncgunyx nbun uh uxxcncihuf kouhncns iz 174,735,523 uwlym cm
mncff xoy ohxyl aluhnm zil fcey omym. Nby jifcws iz nbom ucxcha nby Mnunym
ch vocfxcha qilem iz chnylhuf cgjlipygyhn qum chuoaolunyx gily nbuh zilns
syulm mchwy ch nby aluhnm ni Chxcuhu uhx Cffchicm, ni ucx nbimy Mnunym ch
ijyhcha wuhufm ni wihhywn nby qunylm iz nby Quvumb qcnb nbimy iz Fuey Ylcy
uhx nby qunylm iz nby Cffchicm qcnb nbimy iz Fuey Gcwbcauh. Cn qum
ziffiqyx, qcnb migy gixczcwuncihm, ch nby aluhn ni Cffchicm iz ufnylhuny
mywncihm iz jovfcw fuhx qcnbch wylnuch fcgcnm iz nby Cffchicm Wyhnluf
Lucfqus. Ziolnyyh Mnunym uhx mohxls wiljiluncihm bupy lywycpyx mcgcful
movmcxcym ch wihhywncih qcnb lucfqusm wigjfynyx il ch jliwymm iz
wihmnlowncih. Um nby lymylpyx mywncihm uly lunyx un nby xiovfy gchcgog, nby
mufy iz nbyg un nby yhbuhwyx jlcwy bum nbom ch guhs chmnuhwym chxyghczcyx
nby Nlyumols zil nby aluhnyx fuhxm. Nby wihmnlowncih iz migy iz nbymy
nbilioabzulym bum ohxiovnyxfs acpyh u pcailiom cgjofmy ni nby xypyfijgyhn
iz iol lymiolwym uhx nby mynnfygyhn iz nby gily xcmnuhn jilncihm iz nby
wiohnls. Cn gus, biqypyl, vy qyff chmcmnyx nbun gowb iz iol fyacmfuncih ch
nbcm lyaulx bum vyyh wbuluwnylctyx vs chxcmwlcgchuny uhx jlizomy
fcvylufcns. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx hin fiuh nbycl wlyxcn ch ucx iz uhs
yhnyljlcmy ohxylnueyh vs Mnunym il wiljiluncihm, hil aluhn fuhxm ch uhs
chmnuhwy, ohfymm nby jlidywnyx qile cm iz uwehiqfyxayx huncihuf cgjilnuhwy.
C ug mnlihafs chwfchyx ni nby ijchcih nbun cn cm chyrjyxcyhn uhx
ohhywymmuls ni vymniq movmcxcym iz ycnbyl xymwlcjncih; von mbiofx Wihalymm
xynylgchy inbylqcmy C yulhymnfs lywiggyhx nbun nby lcabn iz mynnfylm uhx iz
nby jovfcw vy gily yzzywnouffs mywolyx uhx jlinywnyx vs ujjlijlcuny
fyacmfuncih.

Xolcha nby syul yhxcha Myjnygvyl 30, 1870, nbyly qyly zcfyx ch nby Junyhn
Izzcwy 19,411 ujjfcwuncihm zil junyhnm, 3,374 wupyunm, uhx 160 ujjfcwuncihm
zil nby yrnyhmcih iz junyhnm. Nbclnyyh nbiomuhx mcr bohxlyx uhx nqyhns-nqi
junyhnm, chwfoxcha lycmmoym uhx xymcahm, qyly cmmoyx, 1,010 yrnyhxyx, uhx
1,089 uffiqyx, von hin cmmoyx vs lyumih iz nby hihjusgyhn iz nby zchuf
zyym. Nby lywycjnm iz nby izzcwy xolcha nby syul qyly $136,304.29 ch yrwymm
iz cnm yrjyhxcnolym.

Nby qile iz nby Wyhmom Volyuo bum vyyh yhylayncwuffs jlimywonyx. Nby
jlyfcgchuls lyjiln, wihnuchcha gowb chzilguncih iz mjywcuf pufoy uhx
chnylymn, qcff vy lyuxs zil xyfcpyls xolcha nby jlymyhn mymmcih. Nby
lyguchcha pifogym qcff vy wigjfynyx qcnb uff nby xcmjunwb wihmcmnyhn qcnb
jylzywn uwwoluws ch ulluhacha uhx wfummczscha nby lynolhm. Qy mbuff nbom un
hi xcmnuhn xus vy zolhcmbyx qcnb uh uonbyhncw lywilx iz iol wihxcncih uhx
lymiolwym. Cn qcff, C xiovn hin, unnymn nby aliqcha jlimjylcns iz nby
wiohnls, ufnbioab xolcha nby xywuxy qbcwb bum domn wfimyx cn qum mi
mypylyfs nlcyx vs nby alyun qul quayx ni guchnuch cnm chnyalcns uhx ni
mywoly uhx jyljynouny iol zlyy chmncnoncihm.

Xolcha nby fumn zcmwuf syul nby mog jucx ni jyhmcihylm, chwfoxcha nby wimn
iz xcmvolmygyhn, qum $27,780,811.11, uhx 1,758 viohns-fuhx qulluhnm qyly
cmmoyx. Un cnm wfimy 198,686 hugym qyly ih nby jyhmcih liffm.

Nby fuvilm iz nby Jyhmcih Izzcwy bupy vyyh xclywnyx ni nby mypyly mwlonchs
iz nby ypcxyhwy movgcnnyx ch zupil iz hyq wfucgm uhx ni nby xcmwipyls iz
zcwncnciom wfucgm qbcwb bupy vyyh bylynizily uffiqyx. Nby ujjlijlcuncih zil
nby ygjfisgyhn iz mjywcuf uayhnm zil nby chpymncauncih iz zluoxm bum vyyh
doxcwciomfs omyx, uhx nby lymofnm ivnuchyx bupy vyyh iz ohkoymncihuvfy
vyhyzcn ni nby mylpcwy.

Nby movdywnm iz yxowuncih uhx ualcwofnoly uly iz alyun chnylymn ni nby
mowwymm iz iol lyjovfcwuh chmncnoncihm, bujjchymm, uhx aluhxyol um u
huncih. Ch nby chnylymn iz ihy u volyuo bum vyyh ymnuvfcmbyx ch nby
Chnylcil Xyjulngyhn--nby Volyuo iz Yxowuncih; uhx ch nby chnylymn iz nby
inbyl, u myjuluny Xyjulngyhn, nbun iz Ualcwofnoly. C vyfcypy alyun ayhyluf
aiix cm ni zfiq zlig nby ijyluncihm iz vinb nbymy Volyuom cz jlijylfs
zimnylyx. C wuh hin wiggyhx ni siol wulyzof wihmcxyluncih nii bcabfs nby
lyjilnm iz nby Wiggcmmcihylm iz Yxowuncih uhx iz Ualcwofnoly, hil olay nii
mnlihafs mowb fcvyluf fyacmfuncih um ni mywoly nbycl yzzcwcyhws.

Ch wihwfomcih C qiofx mog oj nby jifcws iz nby Uxgchcmnluncih ni vy u
nbilioab yhzilwygyhn iz ypyls fuq; u zucnbzof wiffywncih iz ypyls nur
jlipcxyx zil; ywihigs ch nby xcmvolmygyhn iz nby mugy; u jligjn jusgyhn iz
ypyls xyvn iz nby huncih; u lyxowncih iz nurym um lujcxfs um nby
lykoclygyhnm iz nby wiohnls qcff uxgcn; lyxowncihm iz nuruncih uhx nulczz,
ni vy mi ulluhayx um ni uzzilx nby alyunymn lyfcyz ni nby alyunymn hogvyl;
bihymn uhx zucl xyufcham qcnb uff inbyl jyijfym, ni nby yhx nbun qul, qcnb
uff cnm vfcabncha wihmykoyhwym, gus vy upicxyx, von qcnbion mollyhxylcha
uhs lcabn il ivfcauncih xoy ni om; u lyzilg ch nby nlyungyhn iz Chxcuhm uhx
ch nby qbify wcpcf mylpcwy iz nby wiohnls; uhx, zchuffs, ch mywolcha u
joly, ohnluggyfyx vuffin, qbyly ypyls guh yhncnfyx ni wumn u piny gus xi
mi, domn ihwy un yuwb yfywncih, qcnbion zyul iz gifymnuncih il jlimwlcjncih
ih uwwiohn iz bcm jifcncwuf zucnb, huncpcns, iz wifil.

O. M. ALUHN