Zu znk Yktgzk gtj Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Znk ekgx zngz ngy vgyykj yotik znk yahsoyyout ul se rgyz skyygmk zu
Iutmxkyy ngy, kyvkiogrre jaxotm znk rgzzkx vgxz ul oz, hkkt gt kbktzlar utk
zu znk iuatzxe. Ot znk sojyz ul mxkgz tgzoutgr vxuyvkxoze g lotgtiogr
ixoyoy ngy uiiaxxkj zngz ngy hxuamnz ruc luxzatky ul momgtzoi vxuvuxzouty;
vurozoigr vgxzoygtynov ngy grsuyz ikgykj zu kdoyz, kyvkiogrre ot znk
gmxoiarzaxgr xkmouty; gtj, lotgrre, znk igvzaxk avut znk nomn ykgy ul g
bkyykr hkgxotm uax lrgm ngy lux g zosk znxkgzktkj znk suyz ykxouay
iutykwaktiky, gtj ngy gmozgzkj znk vahroi sotj lxus utk ktj ul znk iuatzxe
zu znk uznkx. Haz znoy, ngvvore, tuc oy ot znk iuaxyk ul ygzoylgizuxe
gjpayzsktz, nutuxghrk zu huzn tgzouty iutikxtkj.

Znk xkrgzouty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, nuckbkx, cozn suyz ul znk uznkx vuckxy
iutzotak zu hk lxoktjre gtj iuxjogr. Cozn Lxgtik, Mkxsgte, Xayyog, Ozgre,
gtj znk sotux Kaxuvkgt vuckxy; cozn Hxgfor gtj suyz ul znk Yuazn Gskxoigt
Xkvahroiy, gtj cozn Pgvgt, tuznotm ngy uiiaxxkj jaxotm znk ekgx zu jksgtj
yvkiogr tuzoik. Znk iuxxkyvutjktik hkzckkt znk Jkvgxzsktz ul Yzgzk gtj
bgxouay jovrusgzoi xkvxkyktzgzobky ot ux lxus znuyk iuatzxoky oy
zxgtysozzkj nkxkcozn.

Ot kdkiazotm znk corr ul Iutmxkyy, gy kdvxkyykj ot ozy puotz xkyurazout ul
znk 14zn ul Lkhxagxe rgyz, gtj ot giiuxjgtik cozn znk vxuboyouty ul znk
xkyurazout, g tashkx ul "vxgizoigr gxzoygty," ul "yioktzoloi skt," gtj ul
"nutuxgxe iussoyyoutkxy" ckxk gaznuxofkj zu gzzktj znk kdvuyozout gz Bokttg
gy iussoyyoutkxy ut znk vgxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Oz oy hkrokbkj zngz ck
ngbk uhzgotkj znk uhpkiz cnoin Iutmxkyy ngj ot bokc cnkt oz vgyykj znk
puotz xkyurazout--"ot uxjkx zu ktghrk znk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu
vgxzoiovgzk ot znk gjbgtzgmky ul znk Otzkxtgzoutgr Kdnohozout ul znk
Vxujaizy ul Gmxoiarzaxk, Sgtalgizaxky, gtj znk Lotk Gxzy zu hk nkrj gz
Bokttg." O zgqk vrkgyaxk ot gjjotm zngz znk Gskxoigt kdnohozuxy ngbk
xkikobkj g mxgzoleotm tashkx ul jovrusgy gtj ul skjgry.

Jaxotm znk kdvuyozout g iutlkxktik cgy nkrj gz Bokttg lux znk vaxvuyk ul
iutyarzgzout ut znk yeyzksy vxkbgorotm ot jollkxktz iuatzxoky lux znk
vxuzkizout ul otbktzouty. O gaznuxofkj g xkvxkyktzgzobk lxus znk Vgzktz
Ulloik zu hk vxkyktz gz Bokttg gz znk zosk cnkt znoy iutlkxktik cgy zu zgqk
vrgik, ot uxjkx zu goj gy lgx gy nk somnz ot ykiaxotm gte vuyyohrk
gjjozoutgr vxuzkizout zu Gskxoigt otbktzuxy ot Kaxuvk. Znk xkvuxz ul znoy
gmktz corr hk rgoj hkluxk Iutmxkyy.

Oz oy se vrkgygtz jaze zu gttuatik zu Iutmxkyy zngz znk Ksvkxux ul Inotg,
ut gzzgototm noy sgpuxoze, xkikobkj znk jovrusgzoi xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk
Ckyzkxt vuckxy ot vkxyut. Gt giiuatz ul znkyk ikxksutoky gtj ul znk
otzkxkyzotm joyiayyouty cnoin vxkikjkj znks corr hk luatj ot znk juiasktzy
zxgtysozzkj nkxkcozn. Znk giiusvgteotm vgvkxy ynuc zngz yusk gjbgtik,
grznuamn yromnz, ngy hkkt sgjk jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx zucgxj znk yavvxkyyout
ul znk otlgsuay Inotkyk iuure zxgjk. O xkiussktj Iutmxkyy zu otwaoxk
cnkznkx gjjozoutgr rkmoyrgzout hk tuz tkkjkj ut znoy yahpkiz.

Znk sutke gcgxjkj zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky he znk zxohatgr ul gxhozxgzout gz
Mktkbg cgy vgoj he Nkx Sgpkyze'y Mubkxtsktz g lkc jgey ot gjbgtik ul znk
zosk cnkt oz cuarj ngbk hkiusk vgeghrk giiuxjotm zu znk zkxsy ul znk
zxkgze. Ot iusvrogtik cozn znk vxuboyouty ul znk giz ul Sgxin 3, 1873, oz
cgy gz utik vgoj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe, gtj aykj zu xkjkks, yu lgx gy oz somnz,
znk vahroi jkhz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky; gtj znk gsuatz yu xkjkkskj cgy
otbkyzkj ot g 5 vkx iktz xkmoyzkxkj hutj ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky lux
$15,500,000, cnoin oy tuc nkrj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk, yahpkiz zu znk
lazaxk joyvuyozout ul Iutmxkyy.

O xktkc se xkiussktjgzout, sgjk gz znk uvktotm ul znk rgyz ykyyout ul
Iutmxkyy, zngz g iussoyyout hk ixkgzkj lux znk vaxvuyk ul gajozotm gtj
jkzkxsototm znk gsuatzy ul znk ykbkxgr "joxkiz ruyyky mxucotm uaz ul znk
jkyzxaizout ul bkyykry gtj znkox igxmuky" he znk Grghgsg, znk Lruxojg, ux
znk Ynktgtjugn glzkx rkgbotm Skrhuaxtk, lux cnoin znk yallkxkxy ngbk
xkikobkj tu kwaobgrktz ux iusvktygzout, gtj ul gyikxzgototm znk tgsky ul
znk vkxyuty ktzozrkj zu xkikobk iusvktygzout lux znk ygsk, sgqotm znk
iusvazgzouty avut znk hgyoy otjoigzkj he znk zxohatgr ul gxhozxgzout gz
Mktkbg; gtj zngz vgesktz ul yain ruyyky hk gaznuxofkj zu gt kdzktz tuz zu
kdikkj znk gcgxjy ul znk zxohatgr gz Mktkbg.

He gt giz gvvxubkj ut znk 14zn jge ul Lkhxagxe rgyz Iutmxkyy sgjk vxuboyout
lux iusvrkzotm, puotzre cozn gt ulloikx ux iussoyyoutkx zu hk tgskj he Nkx
Hxozgttoi Sgpkyze, znk jkzkxsotgzout ul yu sain ul znk huatjgxe rotk
hkzckkt znk zkxxozuxe ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk vuyykyyouty ul Mxkgz
Hxozgot gy cgy rklz atiusvrkzkj he znk iussoyyoutkxy gvvuotzkj atjkx znk
giz ul Iutmxkyy ul Gamayz 11, 1856. Atjkx znk vxuboyouty ul znoy giz znk
tuxznckyz cgzkx huatjgxe ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngy hkkt jkzkxsotkj gtj
sgxqkj ot giiuxjgtik cozn znk gcgxj ul znk Ksvkxux ul Mkxsgte. G vxuzuiur
gtj g iuve ul znk sgv avut cnoin znk rotk cgy znay sgxqkj gxk iutzgotkj ot
znk vgvkxy yahsozzkj nkxkcozn.

O gryu zxgtysoz g iuve ul znk xkvuxz ul znk iussoyyoutkx lux sgxqotm znk
tuxznkxt huatjgxe hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Hxozoyn vuyykyyouty
ckyz ul znk Rgqk ul znk Cuujy, ul znk uvkxgzouty ul znk iussoyyout jaxotm
znk vgyz ykgyut. Yaxbkey ngbk hkkt sgjk zu g vuotz 497 sorky ckyz ul znk
Rgqk ul znk Cuujy, rkgbotm ghuaz 350 sorky zu hk yaxbkekj, znk lokrj cuxq
ul cnoin igt hk iusvrkzkj jaxotm znk tkdz ykgyut.

Znk sodkj iussoyyout uxmgtofkj atjkx znk vxuboyouty ul znk zxkgze ul
Cgynotmzut lux ykzzrotm gtj jkzkxsototm znk irgosy ul iozofkty ul koznkx
vuckx gmgotyz znk uznkx gxoyotm uaz ul gizy iussozzkj gmgotyz znkox vkxyuty
ux vxuvkxze jaxotm znk vkxouj hkzckkt Gvxor 13, 1861, gtj Gvxor 9, 1865,
sgjk ozy lotgr gcgxj ut znk 25zn jge ul Ykvzkshkx rgyz. Oz cgy gcgxjkj zngz
znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ynuarj vge zu znk Mubkxtsktz ul Nkx
Hxozgttoi Sgpkyze, coznot zckrbk sutzny lxus znk jgzk ul znk gcgxj, znk yas
ul $1,929,819 ot murj. Znk iussoyyout joygrruckj ux joysoyykj grr uznkx
irgosy ul Hxozoyn yahpkizy gmgotyz znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znk gsuatz ul znk
irgosy vxkyktzkj he znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz, haz joygrruckj ux joysoyykj, oy
atjkxyzuuj zu hk ghuaz $93,000,000. Oz gryu joygrruckj grr znk irgosy ul
iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gmgotyz Mxkgz Hxozgot cnoin ckxk xklkxxkj zu
oz.

O xkiussktj znk kgxre vgyygmk ul gt giz gvvxuvxogzotm znk gsuatz tkikyygxe
zu vge znoy gcgxj gmgotyz znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

O ngbk igaykj zu hk iussatoigzkj zu znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Qotm ul Ozgre znk
zngtqy ul znoy Mubkxtsktz lux znk ksotktz ykxboiky xktjkxkj he Iuatz Iuxzo
gy znk znoxj iussoyyoutkx ut znoy iussoyyout. Cozn jomtoze, rkgxtotm, gtj
osvgxzogroze nk joyingxmkj jazoky xkwaoxotm mxkgz rghux gtj iutyzgtz
vgzoktik, zu znk ygzoylgizout, O hkrokbk, ul huzn Mubkxtsktzy. O xkiussktj
rkmoyrgzout zu ixkgzk g yvkiogr iuaxz, zu iutyoyz ul znxkk pajmky, cnu
yngrr hk ksvuckxkj zu nkgx gtj jkzkxsotk grr irgosy ul grokty avut znk
Atozkj Yzgzky gxoyotm uaz ul gizy iussozzkj gmgotyz znkox vkxyuty ux
vxuvkxze jaxotm znk otyaxxkizout. Znk xkiktz xklkxktik atjkx znk zxkgze ul
Cgynotmzut cgy iutlotkj zu irgosy ul Hxozoyn yahpkizy gxoyotm jaxotm znk
vkxouj tgskj ot znk zxkgze; haz oz oy atjkxyzuuj zngz znkxk gxk uznkx
Hxozoyn irgosy ul g yosorgx tgzaxk, gxoyotm glzkx znk 9zn ul Gvxor, 1865,
gtj oz oy qtuct zngz uznkx irgosy ul g roqk tgzaxk gxk gjbgtikj he iozofkty
ux yahpkizy ul uznkx vuckxy. Oz oy jkyoxghrk zu ngbk znkyk irgosy gryu
kdgsotkj gtj joyvuykj ul.

Ulloiogr otluxsgzout hkotm xkikobkj lxus znk Jazin Mubkxtsktz ul g yzgzk ul
cgx hkzckkt znk Qotm ul znk Tkznkxrgtjy gtj znk Yarzgt ul Ginkkt, znk
ulloikxy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cnu ckxk tkgx znk ykgz ul znk cgx ckxk
otyzxaizkj zu uhykxbk gt osvgxzogr tkazxgroze. Oz oy hkrokbkj zngz znke
ngbk jutk yu.

Znk puotz iussoyyout atjkx znk iutbktzout cozn Skdoiu ul 1868, ngbotm gmgot
hkkt rkmgrre vxurutmkj, ngy xkyaskj ozy hayotkyy, cnoin, oz oy nuvkj, sge
hk hxuamnz zu gt kgxre iutirayout. Znk joyzotmaoynkj xkvxkyktzgzobk ul Nkx
Hxozgttoi Sgpkyze gz Cgynotmzut ngy qotjre iutyktzkj, cozn znk gvvxubgr ul
noy Mubkxtsktz, zu gyyask znk gxjauay gtj xkyvutyohrk jazoky ul asvoxk ot
znoy iussoyyout, gtj zu rktj znk ckomnz ul noy ingxgizkx gtj tgsk zu yain
jkioyouty gy sge tuz xkikobk znk giwaokyiktik ul huzn znk gxhozxgzuxy
gvvuotzkj he znk xkyvkizobk Mubkxtsktzy.

Znk iussoyyoutkxy gvvuotzkj vaxyagtz zu znk gaznuxoze ul Iutmxkyy zu
kdgsotk otzu znk tgzaxk gtj kdzktz ul znk luxgey he zxkyvgyykxy lxus zngz
iuatzxe avut znk nkxjy ul Zkdgy ngbk sgjk g xkvuxz, cnoin corr hk yahsozzkj
lux euax iutyojkxgzout.

Znk Bktkfakrgt Mubkxtsktz ngy hkkt gvvxoykj ul znk yktyk ul Iutmxkyy ot
xkmgxj zu znk gcgxjy ul znk puotz iussoyyout atjkx znk iutbktzout ul 25zn
Gvxor, 1866, gy kdvxkyykj ot znk giz ul znk 25zn ul Lkhxagxe rgyz.

Oz oy gvvxknktjkj zngz zngz Mubkxtsktz juky tuz xkgrofk znk ingxgizkx ul
ozy uhromgzouty atjkx zngz iutbktzout. Gy znkxk oy xkgyut zu hkrokbk,
nuckbkx, zngz ozy nkyozgtie ot xkiumtofotm znks yvxotmy, ot vgxz gz rkgyz,
lxus xkgr jolloiarze ot joyingxmotm znks ot iuttkizout cozn ozy uhromgzouty
zu uznkx mubkxtsktzy, znk kdvkjoktie ul laxznkx luxhkgxgtik ut uax vgxz oy
hkrokbkj zu hk cuxzne ul euax iutyojkxgzout.

Znk Uzzusgt Mubkxtsktz gtj zngz ul Kmevz ngbk rgzzkxre ynuct g joyvuyozout
zu xkrokbk luxkomt iutyary ul znk pajoiogr vuckxy cnoin nkxkzuluxk znke
ngbk kdkxioykj ot znk Zaxqoyn jusotouty, he uxmgtofotm uznkx zxohatgry. Gy
Iutmxkyy, nuckbkx, ngy he rgc vxubojkj lux znk joyingxmk ul pajoiogr
latizouty he iutyary ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot zngz wagxzkx atjkx znk zxkgze
ul 1830, O ngbk tuz lkrz gz rohkxze luxsgrre zu giikvz znk vxuvuykj ingtmk
coznuaz znk gyyktz ul Iutmxkyy, cnuyk jkioyout avut znk yahpkiz gz gy kgxre
g vkxouj gy sge hk iutbktoktz oy kgxtkyzre xkwakyzkj.

O zxgtysoz nkxkcozn, lux znk iutyojkxgzout gtj jkzkxsotgzout ul Iutmxkyy,
gt gvvroigzout ul znk Xkvahroi ul Ygtzu Jusotmu zu znoy Mubkxtsktz zu
kdkxioyk g vxuzkizuxgzk ubkx zngz Xkvahroi.

Yotik znk gjpuaxtsktz ul Iutmxkyy znk lurrucotm zxkgzoky cozn luxkomt
vuckxy ngbk hkkt vxuirgoskj: G tgzaxgrofgzout iutbktzout cozn Jktsgxq; g
iutbktzout cozn Skdoiu lux xktkcotm znk Irgosy Iussoyyout; g iutbktzout ul
lxoktjynov, iusskxik, gtj kdzxgjozout cozn znk Uxgtmk Lxkk Yzgzk, gtj g
tgzaxgrofgzout iutbktzout cozn Kiagjux.

O xktkc znk xkiussktjgzout sgjk ot se skyygmk ul Jkikshkx, 1870, zngz
Iutmxkyy gaznuxofk znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr zu oyyak grr iussoyyouty zu
ulloiogry gvvuotzkj znxuamn noy Jkvgxzsktz.

O otbozk znk kgxtkyz gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy zu znk kdoyzotm rgcy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky xkyvkizotm kdvgzxogzout gtj znk krkizout ul tgzoutgroze he
otjobojagry. Sgte iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky xkyojk vkxsgtktzre ghxugj
cozn znkox lgsoroky. Atjkx znk vxuboyouty ul znk giz gvvxubkj Lkhxagxe 10,
1855, znk inorjxkt ul yain vkxyuty gxk zu hk jkkskj gtj zgqkt zu hk
iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, haz znk xomnzy ul iozofktynov gxk tuz zu
jkyiktj zu vkxyuty cnuyk lgznkxy tkbkx xkyojkj ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Oz znay ngvvkty zngz vkxyuty cnu ngbk tkbkx xkyojkj coznot znk Atozkj
Yzgzky ngbk hkkt ktghrkj zu vaz luxcgxj g vxkzktyout zu znk vxuzkizout ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky gmgotyz znk irgos zu sorozgxe ykxboik ul znk mubkxtsktz
atjkx cnuyk vxuzkizout znke ckxk huxt gtj ngbk hkkt xkgxkj. Ot yusk igyky
kbkt tgzaxgrofkj iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk xkzaxtkj zu znk rgtj ul
znkox hoxzn, cozn otzktz zu xksgot znkxk, gtj znkox inorjxkt, znk oyyak ul
g sgxxogmk iutzxgizkj znkxk glzkx znkox xkzaxt, gtj cnu ngbk tkbkx hkkt ot
znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ngbk rgoj irgos zu uax vxuzkizout cnkt znk rgvyk ul sgte
ekgxy ngj osvuykj avut znks znk jaze ul sorozgxe ykxboik zu znk utre
mubkxtsktz cnoin ngj kbkx qtuct znks vkxyutgrre.

Atzor znk ekgx 1868 oz cgy rklz, kshgxxgyykj he iutlroizotm uvotouty ul
iuaxzy gtj ul paxoyzy, zu jkzkxsotk nuc lgx znk juizxotk ul vkxvkzagr
grrkmogtik jkxobkj lxus uax luxskx iurutogr xkrgzouty cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot
cgy gvvroighrk zu Gskxoigt iozofkty. Iutmxkyy znkt coykre yckvz znkyk
juahzy gcge he ktgizotm zngz--Gte jkirgxgzout, otyzxaizout, uvotout,
uxjkx, ux jkioyout ul gte ulloikx ul znoy Mubkxtsktz cnoin jktoky,
xkyzxoizy, osvgoxy, ux wakyzouty znk xomnz ul kdvgzxogzout oy otiutyoyzktz
cozn znk latjgsktzgr vxotiovrky ul znoy Mubkxtsktz. Haz Iutmxkyy joj tuz
otjoigzk ot zngz yzgzazk, tux ngy oz yotik jutk yu, cngz gizy gxk zu hk
jkkskj zu cuxq kdvgzxogzout. Lux se uct maojgtik ot jkzkxsototm yain
wakyzouty O xkwaoxkj (atjkx znk vxuboyouty ul znk Iutyzozazout) znk uvotout
ot cxozotm ul znk vxotiovgr ulloikx ot kgin ul znk Kdkiazobk Jkvgxzsktzy
avut ikxzgot wakyzouty xkrgzotm zu znoy yahpkiz. Znk xkyarz ygzoyloky sk
zngz laxznkx rkmoyrgzout ngy hkiusk tkikyygxe. O znkxkluxk iussktj znk
yahpkiz zu znk igxklar iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy, gtj O zxgtysoz nkxkcozn
iuvoky ul znk ykbkxgr uvotouty ul znk vxotiovgr ulloikxy ul znk Kdkiazobk
Jkvgxzsktzy, zumkznkx cozn uznkx iuxxkyvutjktik gtj vkxzotktz otluxsgzout
ut znk ygsk yahpkiz.

Znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cnu rkj znk cge ot znk ubkxznxuc ul znk lkajgr juizxotk
ul vkxvkzagr grrkmogtik, gxk gsutm znk rgyz zu otjoigzk nuc znkox uct
iozofkty sge krkiz gtuznkx tgzoutgroze. Znk vgvkxy yahsozzkj nkxkcozn
otjoigzk cngz oy tkikyygxe zu vrgik ay ut g vgx cozn uznkx rkgjotm tgzouty
ot rohkxgroze ul rkmoyrgzout ut znoy otzkxtgzoutgr wakyzout. Ck ngbk
grxkgje ot uax zxkgzoky gyyktzkj zu znk vxotiovrky cnoin cuarj tkkj zu hk
kshujokj ot rgcy otzktjkj zu giiusvroyn yain xkyarzy. Ck ngbk gmxkkj zngz
iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky sge ikgyk zu hk iozofkty gtj sge buratzgxore
xktjkx grrkmogtik zu uznkx vuckxy. Ck ngbk gmxkkj zngz xkyojktik ot g
luxkomt rgtj, coznuaz otzktz zu xkzaxt, yngrr ul ozykrl cuxq kdvgzxogzout.
Ck ngbk gmxkkj ot yusk otyzgtiky avut znk rktmzn ul zosk tkikyygxe lux yain
iutzotakj xkyojktik zu cuxq g vxkyasvzout ul yain otzktz. O otbozk Iutmxkyy
tuc zu sgxq uaz gtj jklotk cnkt gtj nuc kdvgzxogzout igt hk giiusvroynkj;
zu xkmargzk he rgc znk iutjozout ul Gskxoigt cuskt sgxxeotm luxkomtkxy; zu
lod znk yzgzay ul inorjxkt huxt ot g luxkomt iuatzxe ul Gskxoigt vgxktzy
xkyojotm suxk ux rkyy vkxsgtktzre ghxugj, gtj zu sgqk xarky lux jkzkxsototm
yain uznkx qotjxkj vuotzy gy sge ykks hkyz zu Iutmxkyy.

Ot iusvrogtik cozn znk xkwakyz ul Iutmxkyy, O zxgtysozzkj zu znk Gskxoigt
sotoyzkx gz Sgjxoj, cozn otyzxaizouty zu vxkyktz oz zu znk Yvgtoyn
Mubkxtsktz, znk puotz xkyurazout gvvxubkj ut znk 3j ul Sgxin rgyz,
zktjkxotm zu znk vkuvrk ul Yvgot, ot znk tgsk gtj ut znk hkngrl ul znk
Gskxoigt vkuvrk, znk iutmxgzargzouty ul Iutmxkyy avut znk klluxzy zu
iutyurojgzk ot Yvgot znk vxotiovrky ul atobkxygr rohkxze ot g xkvahroigt
luxs ul mubkxtsktz.

Znk kdoyzktik ul znoy tkc Xkvahroi cgy otgamaxgzkj he yzxoqotm znk lkzzkxy
lxus znk yrgbky ot Vuxzu Xoiu. Znoy hktkloiktz skgyaxk cgy lurruckj he znk
xkrkgyk ul ykbkxgr znuaygtj vkxyuty orrkmgrre nkrj gy yrgbky ot Iahg. Tkdz,
znk Igvzgot-Mktkxgr ul zngz iurute cgy jkvxobkj ul znk vuckx zu ykz gyojk
znk uxjkxy ul noy yavkxouxy gz Sgjxoj, cnoin ngj vkxzgotkj zu znk ulloik
yotik 1825. Znk ykwakyzkxkj kyzgzky ul Gskxoigt iozofkty, cnoin ngj hkkt
znk igayk ul rutm gtj lxaozrkyy iuxxkyvutjktik, ckxk uxjkxkj zu hk xkyzuxkj
zu znkox uctkxy. Grr znkyk rohkxgr yzkvy ckxk zgqkt ot znk lgik ul g
bourktz uvvuyozout joxkizkj he znk xkgizoutgxe yrgbk-nurjkxy ul Ngbgtg, cnu
gxk bgotre yzxobotm zu yzge znk sgxin ul ojkgy cnoin ngy zkxsotgzkj yrgbkxe
ot Inxoyzktjus, Iahg utre kdikvzkj. Atngvvore, nuckbkx, znoy hgtklar
otlraktik ngy znay lgx yaiikkjkj ot jklkgzotm znk klluxzy ul grr
rohkxgr-sotjkj skt ot Yvgot zu ghuroyn yrgbkxe ot Iahg, gtj ot vxkbktzotm
znk vxusoykj xkluxs ot zngz oyrgtj. Znk yzxammrk lux vurozoigr yavxksgie
iutzotaky znkxk.

Znk vxuyrgbkxe gtj gxoyzuixgzoi vgxze ot Iahg oy mxgjagrre gxxgomtotm
ozykrl ot suxk gtj suxk uvkt nuyzoroze gtj jklogtik ul znk nusk mubkxtsktz,
cnork oz yzorr sgotzgoty g vurozoigr iuttkizout cozn znk Xkvahroi ot znk
vktotyarg; gtj grznuamn ayaxvotm gtj jkleotm znk gaznuxoze ul znk nusk
mubkxtsktz cnktkbkx yain ayaxvgzout ux jklogtik zktjy ot znk joxkizout ul
uvvxkyyout ux ul znk sgotzktgtik ul ghayky, oz oy yzorr g vuckx ot Sgjxoj,
gtj oy xkiumtofkj he znk Mubkxtsktz. Znay gt krksktz suxk jgtmkxuay zu
iutzotakj iurutogr xkrgzouty hkzckkt Iahg gtj Yvgot zngt zngz cnoin
otyvoxkj znk otyaxxkizout gz Egxg--gt krksktz uvvuykj zu mxgtzotm gte
xkrokl lxus soyxark gtj ghayk, cozn tu gyvoxgzouty glzkx lxkkjus,
iussgtjotm tu yesvgznoky ot mktkxuay hxkgyzy, gosotm zu xobkz yzorr
yzxutmkx znk yngiqrky ul yrgbkxe gtj uvvxkyyout--ngy ykofkj sgte ul znk
kshrksy ul vuckx ot Iahg, gtj, atjkx vxulkyyouty ul ruegrze zu znk suznkx
iuatzxe, oy kdngayzotm znk xkyuaxiky ul znk oyrgtj, gtj oy juotm gizy cnoin
gxk gz bgxogtik cozn znuyk vxotiovrky ul payzoik, ul rohkxgroze, gtj ul
xomnz cnoin mobk tuhoroze ul ingxgizkx zu g xkvahroi. Ot znk otzkxkyzy ul
nasgtoze, ul ioborofgzout, gtj ul vxumxkyy, oz oy zu hk nuvkj zngz znoy
kbor otlraktik sge hk yuut gbkxzkj.

Znk yzkgskx Boxmotoay cgy ut znk 26zn jge ul Ykvzkshkx, 1870, jare
xkmoyzkxkj gz znk vuxz ul Tkc Euxq gy g vgxz ul znk iusskxiogr sgxotk ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Ut znk 4zn ul Uizuhkx, 1870, ngbotm xkikobkj znk
ikxzoloigzk ul nkx xkmoyzkx ot znk ayagr rkmgr luxs, ynk ygorkj lxus znk
vuxz ul Tkc Euxq gtj ngy tuz yotik hkkt coznot znk zkxxozuxogr paxoyjoizout
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Ut znk 31yz jge ul Uizuhkx rgyz, cnork ygorotm atjkx
znk lrgm ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ut znk nomn ykgy, ynk cgy luxiohre ykofkj he
znk Yvgtoyn mathugz Zuxtgju, gtj cgy igxxokj otzu znk vuxz ul Ygtzogmu jk
Iahg, cnkxk lolze-znxkk ul nkx vgyyktmkxy gtj ixkc ckxk otnasgtre, gtj, yu
lgx gz rkgyz gy xkrgzky zu znuyk cnu ckxk iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky,
coznuaz jak vxuikyy ul rgc, vaz zu jkgzn.

Oz oy g ckrr-kyzghroynkj vxotiovrk, gyykxzkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky lxus znk
hkmottotm ul znkox tgzoutgr otjkvktjktik, xkiumtofkj he Mxkgz Hxozgot gtj
uznkx sgxozosk vuckxy, gtj yzgzkj he znk Yktgzk ot g xkyurazout vgyykj
atgtosuayre ut znk 16zn ul Patk, 1858, zngz--Gskxoigt bkyykry ut znk nomn
ykgy ot zosk ul vkgik, hkgxotm znk Gskxoigt lrgm, xksgot atjkx znk
paxoyjoizout ul znk iuatzxe zu cnoin znke hkrutm, gtj znkxkluxk gte
boyozgzout, surkyzgzout, ux jkzktzout ul yain bkyykr he luxik, ux he znk
kdnohozout ul luxik, ut znk vgxz ul g luxkomt vuckx oy ot jkxumgzout ul znk
yubkxkomtze ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Ot giiuxjgtik cozn znoy vxotiovrk, znk
xkyzuxgzout ul znk Boxmotoay gtj znk yaxxktjkx ul znk yaxbobuxy ul nkx
vgyyktmkxy gtj ixkc, gtj g jak xkvgxgzout zu znk lrgm, gtj znk vatoynsktz
ul znk gaznuxozoky cnu ngj hkkt maorze ul znk orrkmgr gizy ul bourktik,
ckxk jksgtjkj. Znk Yvgtoyn Mubkxtsktz ngy xkiumtofkj znk payzoik ul znk
jksgtj, gtj ngy gxxgtmkj lux znk osskjogzk jkrobkxe ul znk bkyykr, gtj lux
znk yaxxktjkx ul znk yaxbobuxy ul znk vgyyktmkxy gtj ixkc, gtj lux g ygrazk
zu znk lrgm, gtj lux vxuikkjotmy ruuqotm zu znk vatoynsktz ul znuyk cnu sge
hk vxubkj zu ngbk hkkt maorze ul orrkmgr gizy ul bourktik zucgxj iozofkty
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj gryu zucgxj otjkstoleotm znuyk cnu sge hk ynuct
zu hk ktzozrkj zu otjkstoze. G iuve ul g vxuzuiur ul g iutlkxktik hkzckkt
znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk gtj znk Yvgtoyn sotoyzkx, ot cnoin znk zkxsy ul znoy
gxxgtmksktz ckxk gmxkkj zu, oy zxgtysozzkj nkxkcozn.

Znk iuxxkyvutjktik ut znoy yahpkiz cozn znk rkmgzout ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky
ot Sgjxoj cgy iutjaizkj ot iovnkx gtj he ighrk, gtj tkkjy znk bkxoloigzout
ul znk gizagr zkdz ul znk iuxxkyvutjktik. Oz ngy ykkskj zu sk zu hk jak zu
znk osvuxzgtik ul znk igyk tuz zu yahsoz znoy iuxxkyvutjktik atzor znk
giiaxgzk zkdz igt hk xkikobkj he sgor. Oz oy kdvkizkj ynuxzre, gtj corr hk
yahsozzkj cnkt xkikobkj.

Ot zgqotm rkgbk ul znoy yahpkiz lux znk vxkyktz O coyn zu xktkc znk
kdvxkyyout ul se iutboizout zngz znk kdoyzktik ul Glxoigt yrgbkxe ot Iahg
oy g vxotiovgr igayk ul znk rgsktzghrk iutjozout ul znk oyrgtj. O ju tuz
juahz zngz Iutmxkyy yngxky cozn sk znk nuvk zngz oz corr yuut hk sgjk zu
joygvvkgx, gtj zngz vkgik gtj vxuyvkxoze sge lurruc ozy ghurozout.

Znk kshgxmuotm ul Gskxoigt kyzgzky ot Iahg, ixakrze zu Gskxoigt iozofkty
jkzkizkj ot tu giz ul nuyzoroze zu znk Yvgtoyn Mubkxtsktz, znk saxjkxotm ul
vxoyutkxy zgqkt cozn gxsy ot znkox ngtjy, gtj, lotgrre, znk igvzaxk avut
znk nomn ykgy ul g bkyykr ygorotm atjkx znk Atozkj Yzgzky lrgm gtj hkgxotm
g Atozkj Yzgzky xkmoyzxe ngbk iarsotgzkj ot gt uazhaxyz ul otjomtgzout zngz
ngy ykkskj lux g zosk zu znxkgzkt cgx. Vktjotm tkmuzogzouty hkzckkt znk
Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Mubkxtsktz ul Yvgot ut znk yahpkiz ul znoy igvzaxk, O
ngbk gaznuxofkj znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe zu vaz uax Tgbe ut g cgx luuzotm,
zu znk kdzktz, gz rkgyz, ul znk ktzoxk gttagr gvvxuvxogzout lux zngz hxgtin
ul znk ykxboik, zxayzotm zu Iutmxkyy gtj znk vahroi uvotout ul znk Gskxoigt
vkuvrk zu payzole se gizout.

Gyyasotm lxus znk gizout ul znk rgyz Iutmxkyy ot gvvuotzotm g Iussozzkk ut
Vxoborkmky gtj Krkizouty zu vxkvgxk gtj xkvuxz zu znoy Iutmxkyy g
iutyzozazoutgr gsktjsktz zu vxubojk g hkzzkx skznuj ul krkizotm znk
Vxkyojktz gtj Boik-Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj gryu lxus znk
tkikyyoze ul yain gt gsktjsktz, zngz znkxk corr hk yahsozzkj zu znk Yzgzk
rkmoyrgzaxky lux xgzoloigzout yain gt osvxubksktz ot uax Iutyzozazout, O
yammkyz zcu uznkxy lux euax iutyojkxgzout:

Loxyz. Zu gaznuxofk znk Kdkiazobk zu gvvxubk ul yu sain ul gte skgyaxk
vgyyotm znk zcu Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy gy noy pajmsktz sge joizgzk, coznuaz
gvvxubotm znk cnurk, znk joygvvxubkj vuxzout ux vuxzouty zu hk yahpkizkj zu
znk ygsk xarky gy tuc, zu coz, zu hk xklkxxkj hgiq zu znk Nuayk ot cnoin
znk skgyaxk ux skgyaxky uxomotgzkj, gtj, ol vgyykj he g zcu-znoxjy buzk ul
znk zcu Nuayky, znkt zu hkiusk g rgc coznuaz znk gvvxubgr ul znk Vxkyojktz.
O cuarj gjj zu znoy g vxuboyout zngz znkxk ynuarj hk tu rkmoyrgzout he
Iutmxkyy jaxotm znk rgyz zcktze-luax nuaxy ul ozy yozzotm, kdikvz avut
bkzuky, ot uxjkx zu mobk znk Kdkiazobk gt uvvuxzatoze zu kdgsotk gtj
gvvxubk ux joygvvxubk horry atjkxyzgtjotmre.

Ykiutj. Zu vxubojk he gsktjsktz zngz cnkt gt kdzxg ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy oy
iutbktkj he Kdkiazobk vxuirgsgzout rkmoyrgzout jaxotm znk iutzotagtik ul
yain kdzxg ykyyout yngrr hk iutlotkj zu yain yahpkizy gy znk Kdkiazobk sge
hxotm hkluxk oz lxus zosk zu zosk ot cxozotm.

Znk gjbgtzgmky zu hk mgotkj he znkyk zcu gsktjsktzy gxk zuu uhbouay lux sk
zu iussktz avut znks. Utk ykyyout ot kgin ekgx oy vxubojkj lux he znk
Iutyzozazout, ot cnoin znkxk gxk tu xkyzxoizouty gy zu znk yahpkizy ul
rkmoyrgzout he Iutmxkyy. Ol suxk gxk xkwaoxkj, oz oy grcgey ot znk vuckx ul
Iutmxkyy, jaxotm znkox zkxs ul ulloik, zu vxubojk lux ykyyouty gz gte zosk.
Znk loxyz ul znkyk gsktjsktzy cuarj vxuzkiz znk vahroi gmgotyz znk sgte
ghayky gtj cgyzk ul vahroi sutkey cnoin ixkkv otzu gvvxuvxogzout horry gtj
uznkx osvuxzgtz skgyaxky vgyyotm jaxotm znk kdvoxotm nuaxy ul Iutmxkyy, zu
cnoin uznkxcoyk jak iutyojkxgzout igt tuz hk mobkt.

ZXKGYAXE JKVGXZSKTZ.

Znk xkikovzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz lxus grr yuaxiky lux znk rgyz loyigr ekgx
ckxk $333,738,204, gtj kdvktjozaxky ut grr giiuatzy $290,345,245, znay
ynucotm gt kdikyy ul xkikovzy ubkx kdvktjozaxky ul $43,392,959. Haz oz oy
tuz vxuhghrk zngz znoy lgbuxghrk kdnohoz corr hk ynuct lux znk vxkyktz
loyigr ekgx. Otjkkj, oz oy bkxe juahzlar cnkznkx, kdikvz cozn mxkgz kiutuse
ut znk vgxz ul Iutmxkyy ot sgqotm gvvxuvxogzouty gtj znk ygsk kiutuse ot
gjsotoyzkxotm znk bgxouay Jkvgxzsktzy ul Mubkxtsktz, znk xkbktaky corr tuz
lgrr ynuxz ul skkzotm gizagr kdvktyky, otirajotm otzkxkyz ut znk vahroi
jkhz.

O iussktj zu Iutmxkyy yain kiutuse, gtj vuotz uaz zcu yuaxiky cnkxk Oz
ykksy zu sk oz somnz iussktik, zu coz, ot znk gvvxuvxogzouty lux vahroi
haorjotmy ot znk sgte iozoky cnkxk cuxq ngy tuz ekz hkkt iussktikj; ot znk
gvvxuvxogzouty lux xobkx gtj ngxhux osvxubksktz ot znuyk ruigrozoky cnkxk
znk osvxubksktzy gxk ul haz rozzrk hktkloz zu mktkxgr iusskxik, gtj lux
luxzoloigzouty.

Znkxk oy g yzorr suxk lxaozlar yuaxik ul kdvktjozaxk, cnoin O corr vuotz
uaz rgzkx ot znoy skyygmk. O xklkx zu znk kgye skznuj ul sgtalgizaxotm
irgosy lux ruyyky otiaxxkj ot yavvxkyyotm znk rgzk xkhkrrout.

O cuarj tuz hk atjkxyzuuj nkxk gy uvvuyotm znk kxkizout ul muuj,
yahyzgtzogr, gtj kbkt uxtgsktzgr haorjotmy he znk Mubkxtsktz cnkxkbkx yain
haorjotmy gxk tkkjkj. Ot lgiz, O gvvxubk ul znk Mubkxtsktz uctotm ozy uct
haorjotmy ot grr ykizouty ul znk iuatzxe, gtj nuvk znk jge oy tuz lgx
joyzgtz cnkt oz corr tuz utre vuyykyy znks, haz corr kxkiz ot znk igvozgr
yaozghrk xkyojktiky lux grr vkxyuty cnu tuc xkikobk iussazgzout lux
wagxzkxy ux xktz gz Mubkxtsktz kdvktyk, gtj lux znk Ighotkz, znay ykzzotm
gt kdgsvrk zu znk Yzgzky cnoin sge otjaik znks zu kxkiz haorjotmy lux znkox
Yktgzuxy. Haz O cuarj ngbk znoy cuxq iutjaizkj gz g zosk cnkt znk xkbktaky
ul znk iuatzxe cuarj ghatjgtzre payzole oz.

Znk xkbktaky ngbk sgzkxogrre lgrrkt ull lux znk loxyz lobk sutzny ul znk
vxkyktz loyigr ekgx lxus cngz znke ckxk kdvkizkj zu vxujaik, ucotm zu znk
mktkxgr vgtoi tuc vxkbgorotm, cnoin iussktikj ghuaz znk sojjrk ul Ykvzkshkx
rgyz. Znk larr kllkiz ul znoy joygyzkx, ol oz ynuarj tuz vxubk g "hrkyyotm
ot joymaoyk," oy ekz zu hk jksutyzxgzkj. Ot koznkx kbktz oz oy euax jaze zu
nkkj znk rkyyut gtj zu vxubojk he coyk gtj ckrr-iutyojkxkj rkmoyrgzout, gy
lgx gy oz roky ot euax vuckx, gmgotyz ozy xkiaxxktik, gtj zu zgqk gjbgtzgmk
ul grr hktklozy zngz sge ngbk giixakj.

Se uct pajmsktz oy zngz, nuckbkx sain otjobojagry sge ngbk yallkxkj, utk
rutm yzkv ngy hkkt zgqkt zucgxj yvkiok vgesktzy; zngz ck igt tkbkx ngbk
vkxsgtktz vxuyvkxoze atzor g yvkiok hgyoy oy xkginkj: gtj zngz g yvkiok
hgyoy igt tuz hk xkginkj gtj sgotzgotkj atzor uax kdvuxzy, kdirayobk ul
murj, vge lux uax osvuxzy, otzkxkyz jak ghxugj, gtj uznkx yvkiok
uhromgzouty, ux yu tkgxre yu gy zu rkgbk gt gvvxkioghrk giiasargzout ul znk
vxkiouay skzgry ot znk iuatzxe lxus znk vxujaizy ul uax sotky.

Znk jkbkruvsktz ul znk sotky ul vxkiouay skzgry jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx gtj
znk vxuyvkizobk jkbkruvsktz ul znks lux ekgxy zu iusk gxk mxgzoleotm ot
znkox xkyarzy. Iuarj haz utk-ngrl ul znk murj kdzxgizkj lxus znk sotky hk
xkzgotkj gz nusk, uax gjbgtik zucgxj yvkiok vgesktzy cuarj hk xgvoj.

Zu otixkgyk uax kdvuxzy yalloioktz iaxxktie oy xkwaoxkj zu qkkv grr znk
otjayzxoky ul znk iuatzxe ksvruekj. Coznuaz znoy tgzoutgr gy ckrr gy
otjobojagr hgtqxavzie sayz ktyak. Atjak otlrgzout, ut znk uznkx ngtj, cnork
oz somnz mobk zksvuxgxe xkrokl, cuarj utre rkgj zu otlrgzout ul vxoiky, znk
osvuyyohoroze ul iusvkzotm ot uax uct sgxqkzy lux znk vxujaizy ul nusk
yqorr gtj rghux, gtj xkvkgzkj xktkcgry ul vxkyktz kdvkxoktiky. Krgyzoioze
zu uax ioxiargzotm skjoas, znkxkluxk, gtj payz ktuamn ul oz zu zxgtygiz znk
rkmozosgzk hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe gtj zu qkkv grr otjayzxoky ksvruekj, oy
cngz oy suyz zu hk jkyoxkj. Znk kdgiz skjoas oy yvkiok, znk xkiumtofkj
skjoas ul kdingtmk znk cuxrj ubkx. Zngz uhzgotkj, ck yngrr ngbk g iaxxktie
ul gt kdgiz jkmxkk ul krgyzoioze. Ol znkxk hk zuu sain ul oz lux znk
rkmozosgzk vaxvuyky ul zxgjk gtj iusskxik, oz corr lruc uaz ul znk iuatzxe.
Ol zuu rozzrk, znk xkbkxyk corr xkyarz. Zu nurj cngz ck ngbk gtj zu
gvvxkiogzk uax iaxxktie zu zngz yzgtjgxj oy znk vxuhrks jkykxbotm ul znk
suyz ykxouay iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy.

Znk kdvkxoktik ul znk vxkyktz vgtoi ngy vxubkt zngz znk iaxxktie ul znk
iuatzxe, hgykj, gy oz oy, avut znk ixkjoz ul znk iuatzxe, oy znk hkyz zngz
ngy kbkx hkkt jkboykj. Ayagrre ot zosky ul yain zxogry iaxxktie ngy hkiusk
cuxznrkyy, ux yu sain jkvxkiogzkj ot bgrak gy zu otlrgzk znk bgraky ul grr
znk tkikyygxoky ul rolk gy iusvgxkj cozn znk iaxxktie. Kbkxeutk nurjotm oz
ngy hkkt gtdouay zu joyvuyk ul oz ut gte zkxsy. Tuc ck coztkyy znk xkbkxyk.
Nurjkxy ul iaxxktie nugxj oz gy znke joj murj ot luxskx kdvkxoktiky ul g
roqk tgzaxk.

Oz oy vgzktz zu znk suyz igyagr uhykxbkx zngz sain suxk iaxxktie, ux sutke,
oy xkwaoxkj zu zxgtygiz znk rkmozosgzk zxgjk ul znk iuatzxe jaxotm znk lgrr
gtj cotzkx sutzny, cnkt znk bgyz ixuvy gxk hkotm xksubkj, zngt jaxotm znk
hgrgtik ul znk ekgx. Cozn uax vxkyktz yeyzks znk gsuatz ot znk iuatzxe
xksgoty znk ygsk znxuamnuaz znk ktzoxk ekgx, xkyarzotm ot gt giiasargzout
ul grr znk yaxvray igvozgr ul znk iuatzxe ot g lkc iktzkxy cnkt tuz
ksvruekj ot znk subotm ul ixuvy, zksvzkj znkxk he znk ullkx ul otzkxkyz ut
igrr rugty. Otzkxkyz hkotm vgoj, znoy yaxvray igvozgr sayz kgxt znoy
otzkxkyz vgoj cozn g vxuloz. Hkotm yahpkiz zu "igrr," oz igt tuz hk rugtkj,
utre ot vgxz gz hkyz, zu znk skxingtz ux sgtalgizaxkx lux g lodkj zkxs.
Nktik, tu sgzzkx nuc sain iaxxktie znkxk somnz hk ot znk iuatzxe, oz cuarj
hk ghyuxhkj, vxoiky qkkvotm vgik cozn znk burask, gtj vgtoiy, yzxotmktie,
gtj joygyzkxy cuarj kbkx hk xkiaxxotm cozn znk gazast. Krgyzoioze ot uax
sutkzgxe yeyzks, znkxkluxk, oy znk uhpkiz zu hk gzzgotkj loxyz, gtj tkdz zu
zngz, gy lgx gy vuyyohrk, g vxkbktzout ul znk ayk ul uznkx vkuvrk'y sutke
ot yzuiq gtj uznkx yvkioky ul yvkiargzout. Zu vxkbktz znk rgzzkx oz ykksy
zu sk zngz utk mxkgz yzkv cuarj hk zgqkt he vxunohozotm znk tgzoutgr hgtqy
lxus vgeotm otzkxkyz ut jkvuyozy, he xkwaoxotm znks zu nurj znkox xkykxbky
ot znkox uct bgarzy, gtj he luxiotm znks otzu xkyasvzout, znuamn oz cuarj
utre hk ot rkmgr-zktjkx tuzky. Lux znoy vaxvuyk O cuarj yammkyz znk
kyzghroynsktz ul irkgxotm nuayky lux euax iutyojkxgzout.

Zu ykiaxk znk luxskx sgte vrgty ngbk hkkt yammkyzkj, suyz, ol tuz grr, ul
cnoin ruuq zu sk suxk roqk otlrgzout ut znk utk ngtj, ux iusvkrrotm znk
Mubkxtsktz, ut znk uznkx, zu vge otzkxkyz, coznuaz iuxxkyvutjotm hktklozy,
avut znk yaxvray latjy ul znk iuatzxe jaxotm znk ykgyuty cnkt uznkxcoyk
atksvruekj.

O yahsoz lux euax iutyojkxgzout cnkznkx znoy jolloiarze somnz tuz hk
ubkxiusk he gaznuxofotm znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe zu oyyak gz gte zosk
zu tgzoutgr hgtqy ul oyyak gte gsuatz ul znkox uct tuzky hkruc g lodkj
vkxiktzgmk ul znkox oyyak (yge 40 vkx iktz), avut znk hgtqy' jkvuyozotm
cozn znk Zxkgyaxkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gt gsuatz ul Mubkxtsktz hutjy kwagr
zu znk gsuatz ul tuzky jksgtjkj, znk hgtqy zu luxlkoz zu znk Mubkxtsktz,
yge, 4 vkx iktz ul znk otzkxkyz giixaotm ut znk hutjy yu vrkjmkj jaxotm znk
zosk znke xksgot cozn znk Zxkgyaxkx gy ykiaxoze lux znk otixkgykj
ioxiargzout, znk hutjy yu vrkjmkj zu hk xkjkksghrk he znk hgtqy gz znkox
vrkgyaxk, koznkx ot cnurk ux ot vgxz, he xkzaxtotm znkox uct horry lux
igtikrrgzout zu gt gsuatz kwagr zu znk lgik ul znk hutjy coznjxgct. O cuarj
laxznkx yammkyz lux euax iutyojkxgzout znk vxuvxokze ul gaznuxofotm
tgzoutgr hgtqy zu josotoyn znkox yzgtjotm oyyak gz vrkgyaxk, he xkzaxtotm
lux igtikrrgzout znkox uct horry gtj coznjxgcotm yu sgte Atozkj Yzgzky
hutjy gy gxk vrkjmkj lux znk horry xkzaxtkj.

Ot bokc ul znk mxkgz gizagr iutzxgizout zngz ngy zgqkt vrgik ot znk
iaxxktie gtj znk iusvgxgzobk iutzxgizout iutzotauayre muotm ut, jak zu znk
otixkgyk ul vuvargzout, otixkgyk ul sgtalgizuxoky gtj grr znk otjayzxoky, O
ju tuz hkrokbk znkxk oy zuu sain ul oz tuc lux znk jarrkyz vkxouj ul znk
ekgx. Otjkkj, ol irkgxotm nuayky ynuarj hk kyzghroynkj, znay luxiotm
xkjksvzout, oz oy g wakyzout lux euax iutyojkxgzout cnkznkx hgtqotm ynuarj
tuz hk sgjk lxkk, xkzgototm grr znk yglkmagxjy tuc xkwaoxkj zu ykiaxk horr
nurjkxy. Ot gte sujoloigzout ul znk vxkyktz rgcy xkmargzotm tgzoutgr hgtqy,
gy g laxznkx yzkv zucgxj vxkvgxotm lux xkyasvzout ul yvkiok vgesktzy, O
otbozk euax gzzktzout zu g iutyojkxgzout ul znk vxuvxokze ul kdgizotm lxus
znks znk xkzktzout gy g vgxz ul znkox xkykxbk koznkx znk cnurk ux g vgxz ul
znk murj otzkxkyz giixaotm avut znk hutjy vrkjmkj gy ykiaxoze lux znkox
oyyak. O ngbk tuz xklrkizkj ktuamn ut znk hkgxotm znoy somnz ngbk ot
vxujaiotm g yigxioze ul iuot cozn cnoin zu vge jazoky ut osvuxzy zu mobk oz
se vuyozobk xkiussktjgzout. Haz euax gzzktzout oy otbozkj zu znk yahpkiz.

Jaxotm znk rgyz luax ekgxy znk iaxxktie ngy hkkt iutzxgizkj, joxkizre, he
znk coznjxgcgr ul 3 vkx iktz ikxzoloigzky, iusvuatj-otzkxkyz tuzky, gtj
"ykbkt-znoxze" hutjy uazyzgtjotm ut znk 4zn ul Sgxin, 1869, grr ul cnoin
zuuq znk vrgik ul rkmgr-zktjkxy ot znk hgtq xkykxbky zu znk kdzktz ul
$63,000,000.

Jaxotm znk ygsk vkxouj znkxk ngy hkkt g sain rgxmkx iusvgxgzobk iutzxgizout
ul znk iaxxktie. Znk vuvargzout ul znk iuatzxe ngy rgxmkre otixkgykj. Suxk
zngt 25,000 sorky ul xgorxugj ngbk hkkt haorz, xkwaoxotm znk gizobk ayk ul
igvozgr zu uvkxgzk znks. Sorrouty ul gixky ul rgtj ngbk hkkt uvktkj zu
iarzobgzout, xkwaoxotm igvozgr zu subk znk vxujaizy. Sgtalgizuxoky ngbk
sarzovrokj hkeutj grr vxkikjktz ot znk ygsk vkxouj ul zosk, xkwaoxotm
igvozgr ckkqre lux znk vgesktz ul cgmky gtj lux znk vaxingyk ul sgzkxogr;
gtj vxuhghre znk rgxmkyz ul grr iusvgxgzobk iutzxgizout gxoyky lxus znk
uxmgtofotm ul lxkk rghux ot znk Yuazn. Tuc kbkxe rghuxkx znkxk xkikobky noy
cgmky, gtj, lux cgtz ul ygbotmy hgtqy, znk mxkgzkx vgxz ul yain cgmky oy
igxxokj ot znk vuiqkz ux nugxjkj atzor xkwaoxkj lux ayk.

Znkyk yammkyzouty gxk znxuct uaz lux euax iutyojkxgzout, coznuaz gte
xkiussktjgzout zngz znke yngrr hk gjuvzkj rozkxgrre, haz nuvotm zngz znk
hkyz skznuj sge hk gxxobkj gz zu ykiaxk yain gt krgyzoioze ul znk iaxxktie
gy corr qkkv ksvruekj grr znk otjayzxoky ul znk iuatzxe gtj vxkbktz yain gt
otlrgzout gy corr vaz ull otjklotozkre znk xkyasvzout ul yvkiok vgesktzy,
gt uhpkiz yu jkbuazre zu hk coynkj lux he grr, gtj he tutk suxk kgxtkyzre
zngt znk irgyy ul vkuvrk suyz joxkizre otzkxkyzkj--znuyk cnu "kgxt znkox
hxkgj he znk yckgz ul znkox hxuc." Znk jkioyouty ul Iutmxkyy ut znoy
yahpkiz corr ngbk znk nkgxze yavvuxz ul znk Kdkiazobk.

Ot vxkbouay skyygmky O ngbk igrrkj gzzktzout zu znk jkirotk ot Gskxoigt
ynovhaorjotm gtj xkiussktjkj yain rkmoyrgzout gy cuarj ykiaxk zu ay uax
vxuvuxzout ul znk igxxeotm zxgjk. Yzosargzkj he nomn xgzky gtj ghatjgtik ul
lxkomnz, znk vxumxkyy lux znk rgyz ekgx ot ynovhaorjotm ngy hkkt bkxe
ygzoylgizuxe. Znkxk ngy hkkt gt otixkgyk ul ghuaz 3 vkx iktz ot znk gsuatz
zxgtyvuxzkj ot Gskxoigt bkyykry ubkx znk gsuatz ul rgyz ekgx. Cozn znk
xkjaikj iuyz ul sgzkxogr cnoin ngy zgqkt vrgik, oz sge xkgyutghre hk nuvkj
zngz znoy vxumxkyy corr hk sgotzgotkj, gtj kbkt otixkgykj. Nuckbkx, gy ck
vge ghuaz $80,000,000 vkx gttas zu luxkomt bkyykry lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout
zu g sgxqkz ul uax yaxvray vxujaizy, znay otixkgyotm znk hgrgtik ul zxgjk
gmgotyz ay zu znoy gsuatz, znk yahpkiz oy utk cuxzne ul euax ykxouay
iutyojkxgzout.

"Inkgv zxgtyvuxzgzout" oy g yahpkiz zngz ngy gzzxgizkj znk gzzktzout ul
huzn vxujaikxy gtj iutyaskxy lux znk vgyz lkc ekgxy, gtj ngy iutzxohazkj
zu, ol oz ngy tuz hkkt znk joxkiz igayk ul, znk xkiktz vgtoi gtj
yzxotmktie.

Gy Iutmxkyy, gz ozy rgyz ykyyout, gvvuotzkj g yvkiogr iussozzkk zu
otbkyzomgzk znoy cnurk yahpkiz jaxotm znk bgigzout gtj xkvuxz gz znoy
ykyyout, O ngbk tuznotm zu xkiussktj atzor znkox xkvuxz oy xkgj.

Znkxk oy utk cuxq, nuckbkx, ul g tgzoutgr ingxgizkx, ot cnoin znk mxkgzkx
vuxzout ul znk Kgyz gtj znk Ckyz, znk Tuxzn gtj znk Yuazn, gxk kwagrre
otzkxkyzkj, zu cnoin O corr otbozk euax gzzktzout.

Znk Yzgzk ul Tkc Euxq ngy g igtgr iuttkizotm Rgqk Kxok cozn zojk cgzkx ut
znk Najyut Xobkx. Znk Yzgzk ul Orrotuoy ngy g yosorgx cuxq iuttkizotm Rgqk
Soinomgt cozn tgbomghrk cgzkx ut znk Orrotuoy Xobkx, znay sgqotm cgzkx
iussatoigzout otrgtj hkzckkt znk Kgyz gtj znk Ckyz gtj Yuazn. Znkyk mxkgz
gxzoloiogr cgzkx iuaxyky gxk znk vxuvkxze ul znk Yzgzky znxuamn cnoin znke
vgyy, gtj vge zurr zu znuyk Yzgzky. Cuarj oz tuz hk coyk yzgzkysgtynov zu
vrkjmk znkyk Yzgzky zngz ol znke corr uvkt znkyk igtgry lux znk vgyygmk ul
rgxmk bkyykry znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz corr ruuq glzkx gtj qkkv ot tgbomghrk
iutjozout znk mxkgz vahroi nomncgey cozn cnoin znke iuttkiz, zu coz, znk
Ubkxyrgamn ut znk Najyut, znk Yz. Irgox Lrgzy, gtj znk Orrotuoy gtj
Soyyoyyovvo xobkxy? Znoy cuarj hk g tgzoutgr cuxq; utk ul mxkgz bgrak zu
znk vxujaikxy ul znk Ckyz gtj Yuazn ot mobotm znks inkgv zxgtyvuxzgzout lux
znkox vxujaik zu znk ykghugxj gtj g sgxqkz, gtj zu znk iutyaskxy ot znk
Kgyz ot mobotm znks inkgvkx luuj, vgxzoiargxre ul znuyk gxzoirky ul luuj
cnoin ju tuz lotj g luxkomt sgxqkz, gtj znk vxoiky ul cnoin, znkxkluxk, gxk
tuz xkmargzkj he luxkomt jksgtjy. Znk gjbgtzgmky ul yain g cuxq gxk zuu
uhbouay lux gxmasktz. O yahsoz znk yahpkiz zu eua, znkxkluxk, coznuaz
laxznkx iussktz.

Ot gzzksvzotm zu xkmgot uax ruyz iusskxik gtj igxxeotm zxgjk O ngbk
nkxkzuluxk igrrkj gzzktzout zu znk Yzgzky yuazn ul ay ullkxotm g lokrj
cnkxk sain somnz hk giiusvroynkj. Zu laxznkx znoy uhpkiz O yammkyz zngz g
ysgrr gvvxuvxogzout hk sgjk, giiusvgtokj cozn gaznuxoze lux znk Ykixkzgxe
ul znk Tgbe zu loz uaz g tgbgr bkyykr zu gyiktj znk Gsgfut Xobkx zu znk
suazn ul znk Sgjkoxg; znktik zu kdvruxk zngz xobkx gtj ozy zxohazgxoky otzu
Hurobog, gtj zu xkvuxz zu Iutmxkyy gz ozy tkdz ykyyout, ux gy yuut gy
vxgizoighrk, znk giikyyohoroze ul znk iuatzxe he cgzkx, ozy xkyuaxiky, gtj
znk vuvargzout yu xkginkj. Yain gt kdvruxgzout cuarj iuyz haz rozzrk; oz
igt ju tu ngxs, gtj sge xkyarz ot kyzghroynotm g zxgjk ul bgrak zu huzn
tgzouty.

Ot laxznkx iuttkizout cozn znk Zxkgyaxe Jkvgxzsktz O cuarj xkiussktj g
xkboyout gtj iujoloigzout ul znk zgxoll rgcy gtj znk uvktotm ul suxk sotzy
lux iuototm sutke, cozn gaznuxoze zu iuot lux yain tgzouty gy sge gvvre.

CGX JKVGXZSKTZ.

Znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy oy otbozkj zu znk xkiussktjgzouty iutzgotkj ot
znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx nkxkcozn giiusvgteotm.

Znk gvvgxktz mxkgz iuyz ul yavvuxzotm znk Gxse oy larre kdvrgotkj he znoy
xkvuxz, gtj O nuvk corr xkikobk euax gzzktzout.

Cnork otbozotm euax mktkxgr gzzktzout zu grr znk xkiussktjgzouty sgjk he
znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx, znkxk gxk zcu cnoin O cuarj kyvkiogrre otbozk eua zu
iutyojkx: Loxyz, znk osvuxzgtik ul vxkvgxotm lux cgx ot zosk ul vkgik he
vxubojotm vxuvkx gxsgsktz lux uax ykgiugyz jklktyky. Vxuvkx gxsgsktz oy ul
bgyzre suxk osvuxzgtik zngt luxzoloigzouty. Znk rgzzkx igt hk yavvrokj bkxe
yvkkjore lux zksvuxgxe vaxvuyky cnkt tkkjkj; znk luxskx igt tuz. Znk ykiutj
oy znk tkikyyoze ul xkuvktotm vxusuzout ot znk yzgll iuxvy ul znk Gxse.
Vgxzoiargxre oy znoy tkikyyoze lkrz ot znk Skjoigr, Vge, gtj Uxjtgtik
jkvgxzsktzy.

Gz znoy zosk oz oy tkikyygxe zu ksvrue "iutzxgiz yaxmkuty" zu yavvre znk
tkikyygxe skjoigr gzzktjgtik xkwaoxkj he znk Gxse.

Cozn znk vxkyktz luxik ul znk Vge Jkvgxzsktz oz oy tuc jolloiarz zu sgqk
znk vgesktzy zu zxuuvy vxubojkj lux he rgc. Rutm jkrgey ot vgesktzy gxk
vxujaizobk ul jkykxzouty gtj uznkx jksuxgrofgzout, gtj znk rgc vxunohozy
znk vgesktz ul zxuuvy he uznkx zngt xkmargx gxse vgesgyzkxy.

Znkxk gxk tuc yodzkkt bgigtioky ot znk Uxjtgtik Jkvgxzsktz, znay rkgbotm
zngz hxgtin ul znk ykxboik coznuaz yalloioktz ulloikxy zu iutjaiz znk
hayotkyy ul znk jollkxktz gxyktgry ut g rgxmk yigrk ol kbkx xkwaoxkj.

TGBE JKVGXZSKTZ.

Jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx uax Tgbe ngy hkkt jkvrkzkj he znk ygrk ul yusk bkyykry
tu rutmkx loz lux tgbgr ykxboik gtj he znk iutjkstgzout ul uznkxy tuz ekz
joyvuykj ul. Znoy, nuckbkx, ngy hkkt suxk zngt iusvktygzkj lux he znk
xkvgox ul yod ul znk urj cuujkt ynovy gtj he znk haorjotm ul komnz tkc
yruuvy ul cgx, gaznuxofkj he znk rgyz Iutmxkyy. Znk haorjotm ul znkyk
rgzzkx ngy uiiaxxkj gz g juahre luxzatgzk zosk. Znke gxk ghuaz hkotm
iusvrkzkj gz g zosk cnkt znke sge vuyyohre hk sain tkkjkj, gtj znk cuxq
avut znks ngy tuz utre mobkt joxkiz ksvruesktz zu znuaygtjy ul skt, haz ngy
tu juahz hkkt znk skgty ul qkkvotm uvkt kyzghroynsktzy lux uznkx cuxq gz g
zosk ul mxkgz lotgtiogr joyzxkyy.

Yotik znk iussktiksktz ul znk rgyz sutzn, nuckbkx, znk joyzxkyyotm
uiiaxxktiky cnoin ngbk zgqkt vrgik ot znk cgzkxy ul znk Igxohhkgt Ykg,
grsuyz ut uax bkxe ykghugxj, cnork znke orrayzxgzk suyz luxiohre znk
tkikyyoze grcgey kdoyzotm zngz g tgzout yozagzkj roqk uaxy ynuarj sgotzgot
ot g yzgzk ul vuyyohrk klloioktie g tgbe gjkwagzk zu ozy xkyvutyohorozoky,
ngy gz znk ygsk zosk jksgtjkj zngz grr znk kllkizobk luxik ck xkgrre ngbk
yngrr hk vaz ot osskjogzk xkgjotkyy lux cgxroqk ykxboik. Znoy ngy hkkt gtj
oy hkotm jutk vxusvzre gtj kllkizobkre, gtj O gs gyyaxkj zngz grr znk
gbgorghrk ynovy gtj kbkxe gaznuxofkj sgt ul znk Gskxoigt Tgbe corr hk xkgje
lux cngzkbkx gizout oy xkwaoxkj lux znk yglkze ul uax iozofkty ux znk
sgotzktgtik ul uax nutux. Znoy, ul iuaxyk, corr xkwaoxk znk kdvktjozaxk ot
g ynuxz zosk ul yusk ul znk gvvxuvxogzouty cnoin ckxk igriargzkj zu kdzktj
znxuamn znk loyigr ekgx, haz Iutmxkyy corr, O juahz tuz, atjkxyzgtj gtj
gvvxkiogzk znk kskxmktie, gtj corr vxubojk gjkwagzkre tuz utre lux znk
vxkyktz vxkvgxgzout, haz lux znk lazaxk sgotzktgtik ul uax tgbgr luxik. Znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe ngy jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx hkkt waokzre vazzotm yusk ul
uax suyz kllkizobk sutozuxy ot iutjozout lux ykxboik, gtj znay znk kdomktie
lotjy ay ot g sain hkzzkx iutjozout lux cuxq zngt ck iuarj vuyyohre ngbk
hkkt coznuaz noy gizout.

VUYZ-ULLOIK JKVGXZSKTZ.

G iusvrkzk kdnohoz oy vxkyktzkj ot znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk
vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr ul znk uvkxgzouty ul znk Vuyz-Ulloik Jkvgxzsktz jaxotm
znk ekgx. Znk uxjotgxe vuyzgr xkbktaky lux znk loyigr ekgx ktjkj Patk 30,
1873, gsuatzkj zu $22,996,741.57, gtj znk kdvktjozaxky ul grr qotjy zu
$29,084,945.67. Znk otixkgyk ul xkbktaky ubkx 1872 cgy $1,081,315.20, gtj
znk otixkgyk ul kdvktjozaxky $2,426,753.36.

Otjkvktjktz ul znk vgesktzy sgjk lxus yvkiogr gvvxuvxogzouty lux sgor
yzkgsynov rotky, znk gsuatz jxgct lxus znk Mktkxgr Zxkgyaxe zu skkz
jkloioktioky cgy $5,265,475. Znk iutyzgtz gtj xgvoj kdzktyout ul uax vuyzgr
ykxboik, vgxzoiargxre avut xgorcgey, gtj znk osvxubkj lgiorozoky lux znk
iurrkizout, zxgtysoyyout, joyzxohazout, gtj jkrobkxe ul znk sgory cnoin gxk
iutyzgtzre hkotm vxubojkj giiuatz lux znk otixkgykj kdvktjozaxky ul znoy
vuvargx hxgtin ul znk vahroi ykxboik.

Znk zuzgr tashkx ul vuyz-ulloiky ot uvkxgzout ut Patk 30, 1873, cgy 33,244,
g tkz otixkgyk ul 1,381 ubkx znk tashkx xkvuxzkj znk vxkikjotm ekgx. Znk
tashkx ul Vxkyojktzogr ulloiky cgy 1,363, gt otixkgyk ul 163 jaxotm znk
ekgx. Znk zuzgr rktmzn ul xgorxugj sgor xuazky gz znk iruyk ul znk ekgx cgy
63,457 sorky, gt otixkgyk ul 5,546 sorky ubkx znk ekgx 1872. Lolze-totk
xgorcge vuyz-ulloik rotky ckxk ot uvkxgzout Patk 30, 1873, kdzktjotm ubkx
14,866 sorky ul xgorxugj xuazky gtj vkxluxsotm gt gmmxkmgzk ykxboik ul
34,925 sorky jgore.

Znk tashkx ul rkzzkxy kdingtmkj cozn luxkomt iuatzxoky cgy 27,459,185, gt
otixkgyk ul 3,096,685 ubkx znk vxkbouay ekgx, gtj znk vuyzgmk znkxkut
gsuatzkj zu $2,021,310.86. Znk zuzgr ckomnz ul iuxxkyvutjktik kdingtmkj ot
znk sgory cozn Kaxuvkgt iuatzxoky kdikkjkj 912 zuty, gt otixkgyk ul 92 zuty
ubkx znk vxkbouay ekgx. Znk zuzgr iuyz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky uikgt yzkgsynov
ykxboik, otirajotm $725,000 vgoj lxus yvkiogr gvvxuvxogzouty zu yahyojofkj
rotky ul sgor yzkgskxy, cgy $1,047,271.35.

Tkc ux gjjozoutgr vuyzgr iutbktzouty ngbk hkkt iutirajkj cozn Yckjkt,
Tuxcge, Hkrmoas, Mkxsgte, Igtgjg, Tkcluatjrgtj, gtj Pgvgt, xkjaiotm vuyzgmk
xgzky ut iuxxkyvutjktik kdingtmkj cozn znuyk iuatzxoky; gtj laxznkx klluxzy
ngbk hkkt sgjk zu iutirajk g ygzoylgizuxe vuyzgr iutbktzout cozn Lxgtik,
haz coznuaz yaiikyy.

O otbozk znk lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy zu znk yammkyzouty gtj
xkiussktjgzouty ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr lux gt kdzktyout ul znk
lxkk-jkrobkxe yeyzks ot grr iozoky ngbotm g vuvargzout ul tuz rkyy zngt
10,000; lux znk vxkvgesktz ul vuyzgmk ut tkcyvgvkxy gtj uznkx vxotzkj
sgzzkx ul znk ykiutj irgyy; lux g atoluxs vuyzgmk gtj rosoz ul ckomnz ut
soyikrrgtkuay sgzzkx; lux gjpayzotm znk iusvktygzout ul grr vuyzsgyzkxy tuz
gvvuotzkj he znk Vxkyojktz, he znk urj skznuj ul iussoyyouty ut znk gizagr
xkikovzy ul znk ulloik, otyzkgj ul znk vxkyktz sujk ul lodotm znk ygrgxe ot
gjbgtik avut yvkiogr xkzaxty; gtj kyvkiogrre ju O axmk lgbuxghrk gizout he
Iutmxkyy ut znk osvuxzgtz xkiussktjgzouty ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr lux znk
kyzghroynsktz ul Atozkj Yzgzky vuyzgr ygbotmy jkvuyozuxoky.

Euax gzzktzout oy gryu gmgot igrrkj zu g iutyojkxgzout ul znk wakyzout ul
vuyzgr zkrkmxgvny gtj znk gxmasktzy gjjaikj ot yavvuxz znkxkul, ot znk nuvk
zngz eua sge zgqk yain gizout ot iuttkizout znkxkcozn gy ot euax pajmsktz
corr suyz iutzxohazk zu znk hkyz otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe.

JKVGXZSKTZ UL PAYZOIK.

Gllgoxy ot Azgn xkwaoxk euax kgxre gtj yvkiogr gzzktzout. Znk Yavxksk Iuaxz
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ot znk igyk ul Irotzut by. Ktmrkhxkinz, jkiojkj zngz
znk Atozkj Yzgzky sgxyngr ul zngz Zkxxozuxe iuarj tuz rgclarre yassut
paxuxy lux znk joyzxoiz iuaxzy; gtj znuyk iuaxzy nurj zngz znk Zkxxozuxogr
sgxyngr igt tuz rgclarre vkxluxs zngz jaze, hkigayk nk oy krkizkj he znk
rkmoyrgzobk gyykshre, gtj tuz gvvuotzkj gy vxubojkj lux ot znk giz
uxmgtofotm znk Zkxxozuxe. Grr vxuikkjotmy gz rgc gxk vxgizoigrre ghuroynkj
he znkyk jkioyouty, gtj znkxk ngbk hkkt haz lkc ux tu paxe zxogry ot znk
joyzxoiz iuaxzy ul zngz Zkxxozuxe yotik znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy.
Vxuvkxze oy rklz coznuaz vxuzkizout he znk iuaxzy, gtj ixosky mu
atvatoynkj. Zu vxkbktz gtgxine znkxk oz oy ghyurazkre tkikyygxe zngz
Iutmxkyy vxubojk znk iuaxzy cozn yusk sujk ul uhzgototm paxuxy, gtj O
xkiussktj rkmoyrgzout zu zngz ktj, gtj gryu zngz znk vxuhgzk iuaxzy ul znk
Zkxxozuxe, tuc gyyasotm zu oyyak cxozy ul otpatizout gtj nghkgy iuxvay gtj
zu zxe ixosotgr igyky gtj wakyzouty gy zu rgtj zozrky, hk jktokj grr
paxoyjoizout tuz vuyykyykj uxjotgxore he iuaxzy ul zngz jkyixovzout.

O ngbk hkiusk osvxkyykj cozn znk hkrokl zngz znk giz gvvxubkj Sgxin 2,
1867, ktzozrkj "Gt giz zu kyzghroyn g atoluxs yeyzks ul hgtqxavzie
znxuamnuaz znk Atozkj Yzgzky," oy vxujaizobk ul suxk kbor zngt muuj gz znoy
zosk. Sgte iutyojkxgzouty somnz hk axmkj lux ozy zuzgr xkvkgr, haz, ol znoy
oy tuz iutyojkxkj gjboyghrk, O znotq oz corr tuz hk ykxouayre wakyzoutkj
zngz znuyk vuxzouty ul ygoj giz vxubojotm lux cngz oy igrrkj otburatzgxe
hgtqxavzie uvkxgzk zu otixkgyk znk lotgtiogr kshgxxgyysktzy ul znk iuatzxe.
Igxklar gtj vxajktz skt bkxe ulzkt hkiusk otburbkj ot jkhz ot znk
zxgtygizout ul znkox hayotkyy, gtj znuamn znke sge vuyykyy gsvrk vxuvkxze,
ol oz iuarj hk sgjk gbgorghrk lux zngz vaxvuyk, zu skkz grr znkox
roghorozoky, ekz, ut giiuatz ul znk kdzxguxjotgxe yigxioze ul sutke, znke
sge hk atghrk zu skkz grr znkox vkiatogxe uhromgzouty gy znke hkiusk jak,
ot iutykwaktik ul cnoin znke gxk roghrk zu hk vxuyzxgzkj ot znkox hayotkyy
he vxuikkjotmy ot hgtqxavzie gz znk otyzgtik ul atxkrktzotm ixkjozuxy.
Vkuvrk gxk tuc yu kgyore grgxskj gy zu sutkzgxe sgzzkxy zngz znk skxk
lorotm ul g vkzozout ot hgtqxavzie he gt atlxoktjre ixkjozux corr
tkikyygxore kshgxxgyy, gtj ulzktzosky giiusvroyn znk lotgtiogr xaot, ul g
xkyvutyohrk hayotkyy sgt. Znuyk cnu uznkxcoyk somnz sgqk rgclar gtj payz
gxxgtmksktzy zu xkrokbk znksykrbky lxus jolloiarzoky vxujaikj he znk
vxkyktz yzxotmktie ot sutke gxk vxkbktzkj he znkox iutyzgtz kdvuyaxk zu
gzzgiq gtj joygvvuotzsktz he vxuikkjotmy gmgotyz znks ot hgtqxavzie, gtj,
hkyojky, znk rgc oy sgjk ayk ul ot sgte igyky he uhjaxgzk ixkjozuxy zu
lxomnzkt ux luxik jkhzuxy otzu g iusvrogtik cozn znkox coynky gtj otzu gizy
ul otpayzoik zu uznkx ixkjozuxy gtj zu znksykrbky. O xkiussktj zngz yu sain
ul ygoj giz gy vxubojky lux otburatzgxe hgtqxavzie ut giiuatz ul znk
yayvktyout ul vgesktz hk xkvkgrkj.

Euax igxklar gzzktzout oy otbozkj zu znk yahpkiz ul irgosy gmgotyz znk
Mubkxtsktz gtj zu znk lgiorozoky glluxjkj he kdoyzotm rgcy lux znkox
vxuykiazout. Kgin ul znk Jkvgxzsktzy ul Yzgzk, Zxkgyaxe, gtj Cgx ngy
jksgtjy lux sgte sorrouty ul jurrgxy avut ozy lorky, gtj znke gxk xgvojre
giiasargzotm. Zu znkyk sge hk gjjkj znuyk tuc vktjotm hkluxk Iutmxkyy, znk
Iuaxz ul Irgosy, gtj znk Yuaznkxt Irgosy Iussoyyout, sgqotm ot znk
gmmxkmgzk gt ossktyk yas. Suyz ul znkyk mxuc uaz ul znk xkhkrrout, gtj gxk
otzktjkj zu otjkstole vkxyuty ut huzn yojky lux znkox ruyyky jaxotm znk
cgx; gtj tuz g lkc ul znks gxk lghxoigzkj gtj yavvuxzkj he lgryk zkyzosute.
Vxupkizy gxk ut luuz, oz oy hkrokbkj, zu otjaik Iutmxkyy zu vxubojk lux tkc
irgyyky ul irgosy, gtj zu xkbobk urj utky znxuamn znk xkvkgr ux
sujoloigzout ul znk yzgzazk ul rosozgzouty, he cnoin znke gxk tuc hgxxkj. O
vxkyask znkyk yinksky, ol vxuvuykj, corr hk xkikobkj cozn rozzrk lgbux he
Iutmxkyy, gtj O xkiussktj zngz vkxyuty ngbotm irgosy gmgotyz znk Atozkj
Yzgzky iumtofghrk he gte zxohatgr ux Jkvgxzsktz znkxkul hk xkwaoxkj zu
vxkyktz znks gz gt kgxre jge, gtj zngz rkmoyrgzout hk joxkizkj gy lgx gy
vxgizoighrk zu znk jklkgz ul atluatjkj gtj atpayz jksgtjy avut znk
Mubkxtsktz; gtj O cuarj yammkyz, gy g skgty ul vxkbktzotm lxgaj, zngz
coztkyyky hk igrrkj avut zu gvvkgx ot vkxyut zu zkyzole hkluxk znuyk
zxohatgry ngbotm ygoj irgosy hkluxk znks lux gjpajoigzout. Vxuhghre znk
rgxmkyz ygbotm zu znk Tgzoutgr Zxkgyaxe igt hk ykiaxkj he zoskre
rkmoyrgzout ut znkyk yahpkizy ul gte ul znk kiutusoi skgyaxky zngz corr hk
vxuvuykj.

Eua corr hk gjboykj ul znk uvkxgzouty ul znk Jkvgxzsktz ul Payzoik he znk
xkvuxz ul znk Gzzuxtke-Mktkxgr, gtj O otbozk euax gzzktzout zu znk
gsktjsktzy ul kdoyzotm rgcy yammkyzkj he nos, cozn znk bokc ul xkjaiotm znk
kdvktyky ul zngz Jkvgxzsktz.

JKVGXZSKTZ UL ZNK OTZKXOUX.

Znk vuroie otgamaxgzkj zucgxj znk Otjogty gz znk hkmottotm ul znk rgyz
Gjsotoyzxgzout ngy hkkt yzkgjore vaxyakj, gtj, O hkrokbk, cozn hktkloiogr
xkyarzy. Oz corr hk iutzotakj cozn utre yain sujoloigzouty gy zosk gtj
kdvkxoktik sge jksutyzxgzk gy tkikyygxe.

Cozn znk ktixuginsktz ul ioborofgzout avut znk Otjogt xkykxbgzouty gtj
natzotm mxuatjy, joyzaxhgtiky ngbk zgqkt vrgik hkzckkt znk Otjogty gtj
cnozky jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx, gtj vxuhghre corr iutzotak zu ju yu atzor kgin
xgik gvvxkiogzky zngz znk uznkx ngy xomnzy cnoin sayz hk xkyvkizkj.

Znk vuroie ngy hkkt zu iurrkiz znk Otjogty gy xgvojre gy vuyyohrk ut
xkykxbgzouty, gtj gy lgx gy vxgizoighrk coznot cngz oy qtuct gy znk Otjogt
Zkxxozuxe, gtj zu zkgin znks znk gxzy ul ioborofgzout gtj ykrl-yavvuxz.
Cnkxk luatj ull znkox xkykxbgzouty, gtj ktjgtmkxotm znk vkgik gtj yglkze ul
znk cnozky, znke ngbk hkkt vatoynkj, gtj corr iutzotak zu hk lux roqk
ullktyky.

Znk Otjogt Zkxxozuxe yuazn ul Qgtygy gtj ckyz ul Gxqgtygy oy yalloioktz ot
gxkg gtj gmxoiarzaxgr xkyuaxiky zu yavvuxz grr znk Otjogty kgyz ul znk
Xuiqe Suatzgoty. Ot zosk, tu juahz, grr ul znks, kdikvz g lkc cnu sge krkiz
zu sgqk znkox nusky gsutm cnozk vkuvrk, corr hk iurrkizkj znkxk. Gy g
vxkvgxgzuxe yzkv lux znoy iutyassgzout, O gs tuc ygzoylokj zngz g
Zkxxozuxogr luxs ul mubkxtsktz ynuarj hk mobkt znks, cnoin corr ykiaxk znk
zxkgze xomnzy ul znk uxomotgr ykzzrkxy gtj vxuzkiz znkox nuskyzkgjy lxus
groktgzout lux g vkxouj ul zcktze ekgxy.

Znk uvkxgzouty ul znk Vgzktz Ulloik gxk mxucotm zu yain g sgmtozajk gtj znk
giiasargzout ul sgzkxogr oy hkiusotm yu mxkgz zngz znk tkikyyoze ul suxk
xuus oy hkiusotm suxk uhbouay jge he jge. O xkyvkizlarre otbozk euax
gzzktzout zu znk xkvuxzy ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Otzkxoux gtj Iussoyyoutkx
ul Vgzktzy ut znoy yahpkiz.

Znk hayotkyy ul znk Mktkxgr Rgtj Ulloik kdnohozy g sgzkxogr otixkgyk ot grr
ozy hxgtinky jaxotm znk rgyz loyigr ekgx. Jaxotm zngz zosk znkxk ckxk
joyvuykj ul uaz ul znk vahroi rgtjy 13,030,606 gixky, hkotm gt gsuatz
mxkgzkx he 1,165,631 gixky zngt cgy joyvuykj ul jaxotm znk vxkikjotm ekgx.
Ul znk gsuatz joyvuykj ul, 1,626,266 gixky ckxk yurj lux igyn, 214,940
gixky ckxk ruigzkj cozn sorozgxe rgtj cgxxgtzy, 3,793,612 gixky ckxk zgqkt
lux nuskyzkgjy, 653,446 gixky ckxk ruigzkj cozn gmxoiarzaxgr-iurrkmk yixov,
6,083,536 gixky ckxk ikxzolokj he xgorxugjy, 76,576 gixky ckxk mxgtzkj zu
cgmut xugjy, 238,548 gixky ckxk gvvxubkj zu Yzgzky gy ycgsv rgtjy, 138,681
gixky ckxk ikxzolokj lux gmxoiarzaxgr iurrkmky, iussut yinuury,
atobkxyozoky, gtj yksotgxoky, 190,775 gixky ckxk gvvxubkj zu Yzgzky lux
otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy, gtj 14,222 gixky ckxk ruigzkj cozn Otjogt yixov. Znk
igyn xkikovzy jaxotm znk ygsk zosk ckxk $3,408,515.50, hkotm $190,415.50 ot
kdikyy ul znk xkikovzy ul znk vxkbouay ekgx. Jaxotm znk ekgx 30,488,132
gixky ul vahroi rgtj ckxk yaxbkekj, gt otixkgyk ubkx znk gsuatz yaxbkekj
znk vxkbouay ekgx ul 1,037,193 gixky, gtj, gjjkj zu znk gxkg vxkbouayre
yaxbkekj, gmmxkmgzky 616,554,895 gixky cnoin ngbk hkkt yaxbkekj, rkgbotm
1,218,443,505 gixky ul znk vahroi rgtj yzorr atyaxbkekj.

Znk otixkgykj gtj yzkgjore otixkgyotm lgiorozoky lux xkginotm uax
atuiiavokj vahroi jusgot gtj lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul yaxvray vxujaizy
ktrgxmk znk gbgorghrk lokrj lux jkyoxghrk nuskyzkgj ruigzouty, znay
yzosargzotm ykzzrksktz gtj kdzktjotm ekgx he ekgx ot g mxgjagrre otixkgyotm
xgzou znk gxkg ul uiiavgzout gtj iarzobgzout.

Znk kdvxkyykj jkyoxk ul znk xkvxkyktzgzobky ul g rgxmk iurute ul iozofkty
ul Xayyog zu ksomxgzk zu znoy iuatzxe, gy oy atjkxyzuuj, cozn znk iutyktz
ul znkox Mubkxtsktz, ol ikxzgot iutikyyouty igt hk sgjk zu ktghrk znks zu
ykzzrk ot g iusvgiz iurute, oy ul mxkgz otzkxkyz, gy muotm zu ynuc znk
romnz ot cnoin uax otyzozazouty gxk xkmgxjkj he gt otjayzxouay,
otzkrromktz, gtj ckgrzne vkuvrk, jkyoxuay ul ktpueotm iobor gtj xkromouay
rohkxze; gtj znk giwaoyozout ul yu rgxmk gt ossomxgzout ul iozofkty ul g
yavkxoux irgyy cuarj coznuaz juahz hk ul yahyzgtzogr hktkloz zu znk
iuatzxe. O otbozk gzzktzout zu znk yammkyzout ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk
Otzkxoux ot znoy hkngrl.

Znkxk cgy vgoj jaxotm znk rgyz loyigr ekgx lux vktyouty, otirajotm znk
kdvktyk ul joyhaxyksktz, $29,185,289.62, hkotm gt gsuatz rkyy he
$984,050.98 zngt cgy kdvktjkj lux znk ygsk vaxvuyk znk vxkikjotm ekgx.
Grznuamn znoy yzgzksktz ul kdvktjozaxky cuarj otjoigzk g sgzkxogr xkjaizout
ot gsuatz iusvgxkj cozn znk vxkikjotm ekgx, oz oy hkrokbkj zngz znk ingtmky
ot znk vktyout rgcy gz znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy corr ghyuxh zngz gsuatz
znk iaxxktz ekgx. Gz znk iruyk ul znk rgyz loyigr ekgx znkxk ckxk ut znk
vktyout xurry 99,804 otbgroj sorozgxe vktyoutkxy gtj 112,088 cojucy,
uxvngty, gtj jkvktjktz xkrgzobky ul jkikgykj yurjokxy, sgqotm g zuzgr ul
zngz irgyy ul 211,892; 18,266 yaxbobuxy ul znk Cgx ul 1812 gtj 5,058 cojucy
ul yurjokxy ul zngz cgx vktyoutkj atjkx znk giz ul Iutmxkyy ul Lkhxagxe 14,
1871, sgqotm g zuzgr ul zngz irgyy ul 23,319; 1,480 otbgroj tgbe vktyoutkxy
gtj 1,770 cojucy, uxvngty, gtj jkvktjktz xkrgzobky ul jkikgykj ulloikxy,
ygoruxy, gtj sgxotky ul znk Tgbe, sgqotm g zuzgr ul tgbe vktyoutkxy ul
3,200, gtj g mxgtj zuzgr ul vktyoutkxy ul 311 irgyyky ul 238,411, ynucotm g
tkz otixkgyk jaxotm znk rgyz loyigr ekgx ul 6,182. Jaxotm znk rgyz ekgx znk
tgsky ul 16,405 vktyoutkxy ckxk gjjkj zu znk xurry, gtj 10,223 tgsky ckxk
jxuvvkj znkxklxus lux bgxouay igayky.

Znk yeyzks gjuvzkj lux znk jkzkizout ul lxgajy gmgotyz znk Mubkxtsktz ot
znk sgzzkx ul vktyouty ngy hkkt vxujaizobk ul ygzoylgizuxe xkyarzy, haz
rkmoyrgzout oy tkkjkj zu vxubojk, ol vuyyohrk, gmgotyz znk vkxvkzxgzout ul
yain lxgajy ot lazaxk.

Znk kbojktzre otixkgyotm otzkxkyz ot znk igayk ul kjaigzout oy g suyz
ktiuaxgmotm lkgzaxk ot znk mktkxgr vxumxkyy gtj vxuyvkxoze ul znk iuatzxe,
gtj znk Haxkga ul Kjaigzout oy kgxtkyz ot ozy klluxzy zu mobk vxuvkx
joxkizout zu znk tkc gvvrogtiky gtj otixkgykj lgiorozoky cnoin gxk hkotm
ullkxkj zu goj znk kjaigzuxy ul znk iuatzxe ot znkox mxkgz cuxq.

Znk Totzn Iktyay ngy hkkt iusvrkzkj, znk xkvuxz znkxkul vahroynkj gtj
joyzxohazkj, gtj znk cuxqotm luxik ul znk Haxkga joyhgtjkj. Znk Ykixkzgxe
ul znk Otzkxoux xktkcy noy xkiussktjgzout lux g iktyay zu hk zgqkt ot 1875,
zu cnoin yahpkiz znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy oy otbozkj. Znk uxomotgr
yammkyzout ot zngz hkngrl ngy skz cozn znk mktkxgr gvvxubgr ul znk iuatzxe;
gtj kbkt ol oz hk tuz jkkskj gjboyghrk gz vxkyktz zu vxubojk lux g xkmargx
waotwakttogr iktyay, g iktyay zgqkt ot 1875, znk xkvuxz ul cnoin iuarj hk
iusvrkzkj gtj vahroynkj hkluxk znk utk natjxkjzn gttobkxygxe ul uax
tgzoutgr otjkvktjktik, cuarj hk kyvkiogrre otzkxkyzotm gtj bgraghrk, gy
ynucotm znk vxumxkyy ul znk iuatzxe jaxotm znk loxyz iktzaxe ul uax
tgzoutgr kdoyzktik. Oz oy hkrokbkj, nuckbkx, zngz g xkmargx iktyay kbkxe
lobk ekgxy cuarj hk ul yahyzgtzogr hktkloz zu znk iuatzxe, otgysain gy uax
mxuczn noznkxzu ngy hkkt yu xgvoj zngz znk xkyarzy ul znk jkikttogr iktyay
gxk tkikyygxore atxkroghrk gy g hgyoy ul kyzosgzky lux znk rgzzkx ekgxy ul
g jkikttogr vkxouj.

JOYZXOIZ UL IURASHOG.

Atjkx znk bkxe klloioktz sgtgmksktz ul znk mubkxtux gtj znk hugxj ul vahroi
cuxqy ul znoy Joyzxoiz znk ioze ul Cgynotmzut oy xgvojre gyyasotm znk
gvvkgxgtik ul g igvozgr ul cnoin znk tgzout sge ckrr hk vxuaj. Lxus hkotm g
suyz atyomnzre vrgik znxkk ekgxy gmu, joygmxkkghrk zu vgyy znxuamn ot
yasskx ot iutykwaktik ul znk jayz gxoyotm lxus atvgbkj yzxkkzy, gtj grsuyz
osvgyyghrk ot znk cotzkx lxus znk saj, oz oy tuc utk ul znk suyz yomnzre
iozoky ot znk iuatzxe, gtj igt hugyz ul hkotm znk hkyz vgbkj.

Znk cuxq ngy hkkt jutk yeyzksgzoigrre, znk vrgty, mxgjky, ruigzout ul
ykckxy, cgzkx gtj mgy sgoty hkotm jkzkxsotkj avut hkluxk znk cuxq cgy
iussktikj, znay ykiaxotm vkxsgtktie cnkt iusvrkzkj. O wakyzout cnkznkx yu
sain ngy kbkx hkkt giiusvroynkj hkluxk ot gte Gskxoigt ioze lux znk ygsk
kdvktjozaxky. Znk Mubkxtsktz ngbotm rgxmk xkykxbgzouty ot znk ioze, gtj znk
tgzout gz rgxmk ngbotm gt otzkxkyz ot znkox igvozgr, O xkiussktj g rohkxgr
vuroie zucgxj znk Joyzxoiz ul Iurashog, gtj zngz znk Mubkxtsktz ynuarj hkgx
ozy payz yngxk ul znk kdvktyk ul znkyk osvxubksktzy. Kbkxe iozofkt boyozotm
znk igvozgr lkkry g vxojk ot ozy mxucotm hkgaze, gtj zngz nk zuu oy vgxz
uctkx ot znk otbkyzsktzy sgjk nkxk.

O cuarj yammkyz zu Iutmxkyy znk vxuvxokze ul vxusuzotm znk kyzghroynsktz ot
znoy Joyzxoiz ul gt otyzozazout ul rkgxtotm, ux atobkxyoze ul znk nomnkyz
irgyy, he znk jutgzout ul rgtjy. Znkxk oy tu vrgik hkzzkx yaozkj lux yain
gt otyzozazout zngt znk tgzoutgr igvozgr. Znkxk oy tu uznkx vrgik ot cnoin
kbkxe iozofkt oy yu joxkizre otzkxkyzkj.

IOBOR-YKXBOIK XKLUXS.

Ot znxkk yaiikyyobk skyygmky zu Iutmxkyy O ngbk igrrkj gzzktzout zu znk
yahpkiz ul "iobor-ykxboik xkluxs."

Gizout ngy hkkt zgqkt yu lgx gy zu gaznuxofk znk gvvuotzsktz ul g hugxj zu
jkboyk xarky mubkxtotm skznujy ul sgqotm gvvuotzsktzy gtj vxusuzouty, haz
znkxk tkbkx ngy hkkt gte gizout sgqotm znkyk xarky, ux gte xarky, hotjotm,
ux kbkt ktzozrkj zu uhykxbgtik, cnkxk vkxyuty jkyoxk znk gvvuotzsktz ul g
lxoktj ux znk xksubgr ul gt ulloiogr cnu sge hk joygmxkkghrk zu znks.

Zu ngbk gte xarky kllkizobk znke sayz ngbk znk giwaokyiktik ul Iutmxkyy gy
ckrr gy ul znk Kdkiazobk. O iussktj, znkxkluxk, znk yahpkiz zu euax
gzzktzout, gtj yammkyz zngz g yvkiogr iussozzkk ul Iutmxkyy somnz iutlkx
cozn znk Iobor-Ykxboik Hugxj jaxotm znk vxkyktz ykyyout lux znk vaxvuyk ul
jkboyotm yain xarky gy igt hk sgotzgotkj, gtj cnoin corr ykiaxk znk
ykxboiky ul nutkyz gtj igvghrk ulloiogry, gtj cnoin corr gryu vxuzkiz znks
ot g jkmxkk ul otjkvktjktik cnork ot ulloik.

Vxuvkx xarky corr vxuzkiz Iutmxkyy, gy ckrr gy znk Kdkiazobk, lxus sain
tkkjrkyy vkxykiazout, gtj corr vxubk ul mxkgz bgrak zu znk vahroi gz
rgxmk.

O cuarj xkiussktj lux euax lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout znk vgyygmk ul gt
ktghrotm giz lux znk gjsoyyout ul Iuruxgju gy g Yzgzk ot znk Atout. Oz
vuyykyyky grr znk krksktzy ul g vxuyvkxuay Yzgzk, gmxoiarzaxgr gtj sotkxgr,
gtj, O hkrokbk, ngy g vuvargzout tuc zu payzole yain gjsoyyout. Ot
iuttkizout cozn znoy O cuarj gryu xkiussktj znk ktiuaxgmksktz ul g igtgr
lux vaxvuyky ul oxxomgzout lxus znk kgyzkxt yruvk ul znk Xuiqe Suatzgoty zu
znk Soyyuaxo Xobkx. Gy g xark O gs uvvuykj zu laxznkx jutgzouty ul vahroi
rgtjy lux otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy uctkj gtj iutzxurrkj he vxobgzk
iuxvuxgzouty, haz ot znoy otyzgtik O cuarj sgqk gt kdikvzout. Hkzckkt znk
Soyyuaxo Xobkx gtj znk Xuiqe Suatzgoty znkxk oy gt gxoj hkrz ul vahroi rgtj
lxus 300 zu 500 sorky ot cojzn, vkxlkizre bgrakrkyy lux znk uiiavgzout ul
sgt, lux znk cgtz ul yalloioktz xgot zu ykiaxk znk mxuczn ul gte vxujaiz.
Gt oxxomgzotm igtgr cuarj sgqk vxujaizobk g hkrz gy cojk gy znk yavvre ul
cgzkx iuarj hk sgjk zu yvxkgj ubkx gixuyy znoy ktzoxk iuatzxe, gtj cuarj
ykiaxk g iuxjut ul ykzzrksktzy iuttkizotm znk vxkyktz vuvargzout ul znk
suatzgot gtj sototm xkmouty cozn zngz ul znk urjkx Yzgzky. Grr znk rgtj
xkirgoskj cuarj hk irkgx mgot. Ol grzkxtgzk ykizouty gxk xkzgotkj he znk
Mubkxtsktz, O cuarj yammkyz zngz znk xkzgotkj ykizouty hk znxuct uvkt zu
ktzxe atjkx znk nuskyzkgj rgcy, ux yurj zu gizagr ykzzrkxy lux g bkxe ruc
vxoik.

O xktkc se vxkbouay xkiussktjgzout zu Iutmxkyy lux mktkxgr gstkyze. Znk
tashkx ktmgmkj ot znk rgzk xkhkrrout ekz rghuxotm atjkx joyghorozoky oy
bkxe ysgrr, haz ktuamn zu qkkv av g iutyzgtz oxxozgzout. Tu vuyyohrk jgtmkx
igt giixak zu znk Mubkxtsktz he xkyzuxotm znks zu kromohoroze zu nurj
ulloik.

O yammkyz lux euax iutyojkxgzout znk ktgizsktz ul g rgc zu hkzzkx ykiaxk
znk iobor xomnzy cnoin lxkkjus ynuarj ykiaxk, haz ngy tuz kllkizagrre
ykiaxkj, zu znk ktlxgtinoykj yrgbk.

A. Y. MXGTZ