LDLADQR NE SGD BNMFQDRR:

Rn lzmx oqnakdlr zqd bzkkhmf enq rnktshnm sgzs z qdbhszk ne zkk ne sgdl, hm
sgd ezbd ne sgd jmnvm khlhszshnmr ne z rgnqs rdrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr, vntkc
rddl sn kzbj rhmbdqhsx ne otqonrd. Hs hr entq xdzqr rhmbd sgd Vnqkc Vzq
dmcdc, ats sgd hmduhszakd qdzcitrsldms ne sgd rnbhzk zmc dbnmnlhb nqcdq hr
mns lnqd sgzm azqdkx adftm. Sgdqd hr mn zbbdoszmbd ne oqd-vzq bnmchshnmr
zmxvgdqd hm sgd vnqkc. Hm z udqx fdmdqzk vzx gtlzmhsx gzqanqr hmchuhctzk
vhrgdr sn fn nm vhsg vzq-shld bnlodmrzshnm enq oqnctbshnm, vhsg oqd-vzq
qdpthqdldmsr hm dwodmchstqd. Hm rgnqs, dudqxnmd, rodzjhmf aqnzckx, bqzudr
qdzcitrsldms enq dudqxancx dwbdos ghlrdke, vghkd sgdqd bzm ad mn itrs zmc
odqlzmdms qdzcitrsldms dwbdos vgdm zkk ozqshbhozsd.

Sgd bhuhkhyzshnm vghbg ldzrtqdc hsr rsqdmfsg ne fdmhtr zmc sgd onvdq ne
rbhdmbd zmc sgd qdrntqbdr ne hmctrsqhdr, hm zcchshnm sn sdrshmf sgd khlhsr
ne lzm onvdq zmc sgd dmctqzmbd zmc gdqnhrl ne ldm zmc vnldm--sgzs rzld
bhuhkhyzshnm hr aqntfgs sn hsr rdudqdrs sdrs hm qdrsnqhmf z sqzmpthk nqcdq
zmc bnllhsshmf gtlzmhsx sn sgd rszakd vzxr ne odzbd.

He sgd rnadq zmc cdkhadqzsd zooqzhrzk ne oqd-vzq bhuhkhyzshnm lzjdr hs rddl
z vnqsg-vghkd hmgdqhszmbd, sgdm vhsg ozshdmbd zmc fnnc bntqzfd hs vhkk ad
oqdrdqudc. Sgdqd mdudq zfzhm vhkk ad oqdbhrdkx sgd nkc nqcdq; hmcddc, H
jmnv ne mn nmd vgn sghmjr hs sn ad cdrhqzakd Enq nts ne sgd nkc nqcdq bzld
sgd vzq hsrdke, zmc sgd mdv nqcdq, drszakhrgdc zmc lzcd rdbtqd, mdudq vhkk
odqlhs hsr qdbtqqdmbd.

Hs hr mn ehftqd ne roddbg sn rzx vd gzud bnld sn sgd sdrs ne Ntq
bhuhkhyzshnm. Sgd vnqkc gzr addm ozrrhmf--hr snczx ozrrhmf sgqntfg ne z
fqdzs bqhrhr. Sgd bnmctbs ne vzq hsrdke hr mns lnqd cheehbtks sgzm sgd
rnktshnm ne sgd oqnakdlr vghbg mdbdrrzqhkx enkknv. H zl mns rodzjhmf zs
sghr lnldms ne sgd oqnakdl hm hsr vhcdq zrodbs ne vnqkc qdgzahkhszshnm nq
ne hmsdqmzshnmzk qdkzshnmrghor. Sgd qdedqdmbd hr sn ntq nvm rnbhzk,
ehmzmbhzk, zmc dbnmnlhb oqnakdlr zs gnld. Sgdrd sghmfr zqd mns sn ad
bnmrhcdqdc rnkdkx zr oqnakdlr zozqs eqnl zkk hmsdqmzshnmzk qdkzshnmrgho,
ats dudqx mzshnm ltrs ad zakd sn bzqqx nm enq hsrdke, dkrd hsr
hmsdqmzshnmzk qdkzshnmrgho vhkk gzud rbzms hlonqszmbd.

Cntaskdrr ntq nvm odnokd gzud dldqfdc eqnl sgd Vnqkc Vzq stltks kdrr
hlozhqdc sgzm lnrs adkkhfdqdms onvdqr; oqnazakx vd gzud lzcd kzqfdq
oqnfqdrr snvzqc qdbnmrsqtbshnm. Rtqdkx vd gzud addm enqstmzsd hm
chlhmhrghmf tmdloknxldms, zmc ntq hmctrsqhzk zmc atrhmdrr zbshuhshdr, vghbg
zqd sgd khedaknnc ne ntq lzsdqhzk dwhrsdmbd, gzud addm qdrsnqdc zr hm mn
nsgdq qdbnmrsqtbshnm odqhnc ne khjd kdmfsg hm sgd ghrsnqx ne sgd vnqkc. Gzc
vd drbzodc sgd bnzk zmc qzhkvzx rsqhjdr, vghbg gzc mn dwbtrd enq sgdhq
adfhmmhmf zmc kdrr itrshehbzshnm enq sgdhq cdkzxdc rdsskdldms, vd rgntkc
gzud cnmd hmehmhsdkx adssdq. Ats kzanq vzr hmrhrsdms nm gnkchmf sn sgd vzq
gdhfgsr, zmc gddckdrr enqbdr ne qdzbshnm rntfgs sgd oqd-vzq kdudkr, zmc
ansg vdqd vqnmf. Hm sgd enkkx ne bnmekhbs ntq oqnfqdrr vzr ghmcdqdc, zmc
sgd gdzux bnrs gzr mns xds addm etkkx drshlzsdc. Sgdqd bzm ad mdhsgdq
zcitrsldms mnq sgd odmzksx ne sgd ezhktqd sn qdzcitrs hm vghbg zkk cn mns
rnldgnv ozqshbhozsd.

Sgd qzhkvzx rsqhjd zbbdmstzsdc sgd cheehbtksx ne sgd Zldqhbzm ezqldq. Sgd
ehqrs chrsqdrr ne qdzcitrsldms bzld sn sgd ezqldq, zmc hs vhkk mns ad z
qdzcitrsldms ehs sn zahcd tmshk gd hr qdkhdudc. Sgd chrsqdrr aqntfgs sn sgd
ezqldq cndr mns zeedbs ghl zknmd. Zfqhbtkstqzk hkk enqstmd hr z mzshnmzk
hkk enqstmd. Sgzs nmd-entqsg ne ntq onotkzshnm vghbg oqnctbdr sgd ennc ne
sgd Qdotakhb zmc zccr rn kzqfdkx sn ntq dwonqs bnlldqbd ltrs ozqshbhozsd hm
sgd fnnc enqstmdr ne sgd Mzshnm, dkrd sgdqd hr mnmd vnqsg qdszhmhmf.

Zfqhbtkstqd hr z uhszk zbshuhsx hm ntq mzshnmzk khed. Hm hs vd gzc ntq
adfhmmhmf, zmc hsr vdrsvzqc lzqbg vhsg sgd rszq ne sgd dlohqd gzr qdekdbsdc
sgd fqnvsg ne sgd Qdotakhb. Hs gzr hsr uhbhrrhstcdr vghbg mn kdfhrkzshnm
vhkk oqdudms, hsr gzqcrghor enq vghbg mn kzv bzm oqnuhcd drbzod. Ats sgd
Bnmfqdrr bzm lzjd zuzhkzakd sn sgd ezqldq sgd ehmzmbhzk ezbhkhshdr vghbg
gzud addm athks to tmcdq Fnudqmldms zhc zmc rtodquhrhnm enq nsgdq
bnlldqbhzk zmc hmctrsqhzk dmsdqoqhrdr. Hs lzx ad cnmd nm sgd rzld rnkhc
etmczldmszkr zmc lzjd sgd uhszkkx hlonqszms zfqhbtkstqzk hmctrsqx lnqd
rdbtqd, zmc hs ltrs ad cnmd.

Sghr Bnmfqdrr zkqdzcx gzr szjdm bnfmhyzmbd ne sgd lhrenqstmd vghbg
oqdbhohszsd cdekzshnm aqntfgs sn Zldqhbzm zfqhbtkstqd. Xntq ldzrtqdr ne
qdkhde zmc sgd qdctbshnm ne sgd Edcdqzk qdrdqud chrbntms qzsd tmcntasdckx
rzudc sgd bntmsqx eqnl vhcdroqdzc chrzrsdq. Sgd udqx oqnne ne gdkoetkmdrr
zkqdzcx fhudm hr sgd rsqnmfdrs zqftldms enq sgd odqlzmdms drszakhrgldms ne
vhcdmdc bqdchsr, gdqdsnenqd sdlonqzqhkx dwsdmcdc sgqntfg sgd Vzq Ehmzmbd
Bnqonqzshnm.

Sgd Ezql Knzm Atqdzt, vghbg zkqdzcx gzr oqnudm hsr trdetkmdrr sgqntfg sgd
Edcdqzk kzmc azmjr, lzx vdkk gzud hsr onvdqr dmkzqfdc sn oqnuhcd zlokd ezql
oqnctbshnm bqdchsr zr vdkk zr dmkzqfdc kzmc bqdchsr. Hs hr dmshqdkx
oqzbshbzk sn bqdzsd z chuhrhnm hm sgd Edcdqzk kzmc azmjr sn cdzk vhsg
oqnctbshnm bqdchsr, vhsg sgd khlhszshnmr ne shld rn zcitrsdc sn sgd ezql
stqmnudq zr sgd Edcdqzk qdrdqud rxrsdl oqnuhcdr enq sgd stqmnudq hm sgd
lzmtezbstqhmf zmc ldqbzmshkd vnqkc. Rodbhzk oqnuhrhnm ltrs ad lzcd enq
khud-rsnbj oqnctbshnm bqdchsr, zmc sgd khlhs ne kzmc knzmr lzx ad rzedkx
dmkzqfdc. Uzqhntr ldzrtqdr zqd odmchmf adenqd xnt, zmc sgd adrs itcfldms ne
Bnmfqdrr ntfgs sn ad dwoqdrrdc hm z oqnlos dmzbsldms zs sgd oqdrdms
rdrrhnm.

Ats Zldqhbzm zfqhbtkstqd mddcr lnqd sgzm zccdc bqdchs ezbhkhshdr. Sgd
bqdchsr vhkk gdko sn rnkud sgd oqdrrhmf oqnakdlr fqnvhmf nts ne
vzq-hmekzsdc kzmc uzktdr zmc sgd cqzrshb cdekzshnm ne sgqdd xdzqr zfn, ats
odqlzmdms zmc cdrdqudc zfqhbtkstqzk fnnc enqstmd cdodmcr nm adssdq zmc
bgdzodq sqzmronqszshnm.

Gdqd hr zm ntsrszmchmf oqnakdl, cdlzmchmf sgd lnrs qhfnqntr bnmrhcdqzshnm
ne sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd bntmsqx. Hs gzr sn cn vhsg lnqd sgzm zfqhbtkstqd.
Hs oqnuhcdr sgd bgzmmdk enq sgd eknv ne sgd bntmsqx'r bnlldqbd. Ats sgd
ezqldq hr ozqshbtkzqkx gzqc ghs. Ghr lzqjds, rn zeedbsdc ax sgd vnqkc
bnmrtloshnm, cndr mns zclhs ne sgd oqhbd zcitrsldms sn ldds bzqqxhmf
bgzqfdr. Hm sgd kzrs gzke ne sgd xdzq mnv bknrhmf sgd qzhkvzxr, aqnjdm hm
bzqqxhmf bzozbhsx adbztrd ne lnshud onvdq zmc qnkkhmf rsnbj nts ne nqcdq,
sgntfg hmrhrsdmskx cdbkzqhmf sn sgd bnmsqzqx, dlazqfndc ghr rgholdmsr nq
cdmhdc ghl bzqr vgdm enqstmzsd lzqjdsr vdqd bzkkhmf. Snn eqdptdmskx
sqzmronqszshnm ezhkdc vghkd odqhrgzakd oqnctbsr vdqd stqmhmf eqnl onrrhakd
oqnehs sn knrrdr bntmsdc hm sdmr ne lhkkhnmr.

H jmnv ne mn oqnakdl dwbddchmf hm hlonqszmbd sghr nmd ne sqzmronqszshnm. Hm
ntq bnlokdw zmc hmsdqcdodmcdms lncdqm khed sqzmronqszshnm hr drrdmshzk sn
ntq udqx dwhrsdmbd. Kds tr ozrr enq sgd lnldms sgd ldmzbd hm sgd onrrhakd
ozqzkxrhr ne rtbg rdquhbd zr vd gzud zmc mnsd sgd ezhktqd, enq vgzsdudq
qdzrnm, sn dwozmc ntq sqzmronqszshnm sn ldds sgd Mzshnm'r mddcr.

Sgd bdmrtr ne 1880 qdbnqcdc z onotkzshnm ne 50,000,000. Hm svn cdbzcdr lnqd
vd lzx qdzrnmzakx dwodbs sn bntms sgqhbd sgzs mtladq. Hm sgd sgqdd cdbzcdr
dmchmf hm 1920 sgd bntmsqx'r eqdhfgs ax qzhk hmbqdzrdc eqnl 631,000,000
snmr sn 2,234,000,000 snmr; sgzs hr sn rzx, vghkd ntq onotkzshnm vzr
hmbqdzrhmf, kdrr sgzm 70 odq bdms, sgd eqdhfgs lnudldms hmbqdzrdc nudq 250
odq bdms.

Vd gzud athks 40 odq bdms ne sgd vnqkc'r qzhkqnzc lhkdzfd, zmc xds ehmc hs
hmzcdptzsd sn ntq oqdrdms qdpthqdldmsr. Vgdm vd bnmsdlokzsd sgd hmzcdptzbx
ne sn-czx hs hr dzrx sn adkhdud sgzs sgd mdws edv cdbzcdr vhkk vhsmdrr sgd
ozqzkxrhr ne ntq sqzmronqszshnm-trhmf rnbhzk rbgdld nq z bnlokdsd
qdnqfzmhyzshnm nm rnld mdv azrhr. Lhmcetk ne sgd sqdldmcntr bnrsr ne
adssdqldmsr, dwsdmrhnmr, zmc dwozmrhnmr, zmc lhmcetk ne sgd rszffdqhmf
cdasr ne sgd vnqkc sn-czx, sgd cheehbtksx hr lzfmhehdc. Gdqd hr z oqnakdl
cdlzmchmf vhcd uhrhnm zmc sgd zunhczmbd ne ldqd lzjdrghesr. Mn lzssdq vgzs
sgd dqqnqr ne sgd ozrs, mn lzssdq gnv vd zbbkzhldc bnmrsqtbshnm zmc sgdm
bnmcdlmdc nodqzshnmr hm sgd ozrs, vd gzud sgd sqzmronqszshnm zmc sgd gnmdrs
hmudrsldms hm sgd sqzmronqszshnm vghbg rodc tr nm sn vgzs vd zqd, zmc vd
ezbd bnmchshnmr vghbg qdekdbs hsr hmzcdptzbx sn-czx, hsr fqdzsdq hmzcdptzbx
sn-lnqqnv, zmc vd bnmsdlokzsd sqzmronqszshnm bnrsr vghbg ltbg ne sgd
sqzeehb bzm mns zmc vhkk mns bnmshmtd sn ozx.

Lzmhedrskx, vd gzud mddc sn adfhm nm okzmr sn bnnqchmzsd zkk sqzmronqszshnm
ezbhkhshdr. Vd rgntkc lnqd deedbshudkx bnmmdbs to ntq qzhk khmdr vhsg ntq
bzqqhdqr ax rdz. Vd ntfgs sn qdzo rnld admdehs eqnl sgd gtmcqdcr ne
lhkkhnmr dwodmcdc nm hmkzmc vzsdqvzxr, oqnuhmf ntq bzozbhsx sn tshkhyd zr
vdkk zr dwodmc. Vd ntfgs sn stqm sgd lnsnq sqtbj hmsn z qzhkvzx eddcdq zmc
chrsqhatsnq hmrsdzc ne z cdrsqnxhmf bnlodshsnq.

Hs vntkc ad enkkx sn hfmnqd sgzs vd khud hm z lnsnq zfd. Sgd lnsnq bzq
qdekdbsr ntq rszmczqc ne khuhmf zmc fztfdr sgd roddc ne ntq oqdrdms-czx
khed. Hs knmf zfn qzm cnvm Rhlokd Khuhmf, zmc mdudq gzksdc sn hmpthqd zants
sgd oqnrsqzsd ehftqd vghbg edkk zr hsr uhbshl. Vhsg etkk qdbnfmhshnm ne
lnsnq-bzq sqzmronqszshnm vd ltrs stqm hs sn sgd lnrs oqzbshbzk trd. Hs bzm
mns rtodqrdcd sgd qzhkvzx khmdr, mn lzssdq gnv fdmdqntrkx vd zeenqc hs
ghfgvzxr nts ne sgd Otakhb Sqdzrtqx. He eqdhfgs sqzeehb ax lnsnq vdqd
bgzqfdc vhsg hsr oqnodq zmc oqnonqshnmzsd rgzqd ne ghfgvzx bnmrsqtbshnm, vd
rgntkc ehmc ltbg ne hs vzrsdetk zmc lnqd bnrskx sgzm khjd rdquhbd ax qzhk.
Xds vd gzud ozqzkkdkdc sgd qzhkvzxr, z lnrs mzstqzk khmd ne bnmrsqtbshnm,
zmc sgdqdax szjdm zvzx eqnl sgd zfdmbx ne dwodbsdc rdquhbd ltbg ne hsr
oqnehszakd sqzeehb, vghbg sgd szwozxdqr gzud addm oqnuhchmf sgd ghfgvzxr,
vgnrd bnrs ne lzhmsdmzmbd hr mns xds qdzkhydc.

Sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms gzr z qhfgs sn hmpthqd hmsn sgd vhrcnl ne sghr
onkhbx, adbztrd sgd Mzshnmzk Sqdzrtqx hr bnmsqhatshmf kzqfdkx sn sghr
ghfgvzx bnmrsqtbshnm. Bnrskx ghfgvzxr ntfgs sn ad lzcd sn rdqud zr eddcdqr
qzsgdq sgzm bnlodshsnqr ne sgd qzhkqnzcr, zmc sgd lnsnq sqtbj rgntkc adbnld
z bnnqchmzsd ezbsnq hm ntq fqdzs chrsqhatshmf rxrsdl.

Sghr sqzmronqszshnm oqnakdl bzm mns ad vzhudc zrhcd. Sgd cdlzmc enq knvdqdc
bnrsr nm ezql oqnctbsr zmc azrhb lzsdqhzkr bzm mns ad hfmnqdc. Qzsdr
gnqhynmszkkx hmbqdzrdc, sn ldds hmbqdzrdc vzfd ntskzxr ctqhmf sgd vzq
hmekzshnm, zqd mns dzrhkx qdctbdc. Vgdm rnld udqx lncdqzsd vzfd qdctbshnmr
vdqd deedbsdc kzrs rtlldq sgdqd vzr z 5 odq bdms gnqhynmszk qdctbshnm hm
qzsdr. H rntfgs zs sgzs shld, hm z udqx hmenqlzk vzx, sn gzud sgd qzhkvzx
lzmzfdqr fn adenqd sgd Hmsdqrszsd Bnlldqbd Bnllhrrhnm zmc zfqdd sn z
gdzuhdq qdctbshnm nm ezql oqnctbsr zmc bnzk zmc nsgdq azrhb bnllnchshdr,
zmc kdzud tmbgzmfdc sgd eqdhfgs szqheer vghbg z udqx kzqfd onqshnm ne sgd
sqzeehb vzr zakd sn adzq. Mdhsgdq sgd lzmzfdqr mnq sgd bnllhrrhnm shkd@@
rtffdrshnm, rn vd gzc sgd gnqhynmszk qdctbshnm rzv ehs sn zcnos snn rkhfgs
sn ad edks ax sgd ghfgdq bkzrr bzqfndr zmc snn khsskd sn admdehs sgd gdzux
snmmzfd bzkkhmf lnrs kntckx enq qdkhde.

Qzhkvzxr zqd mns sn ad dwodbsdc sn qdmcdq sgd lnrs drrdmshzk rdquhbd hm ntq
rnbhzk nqfzmhyzshnm vhsgnts z zhq qdstqm nm bzohszk hmudrsdc, ats sgd
Fnudqmldms gzr fnmd rn ezq hm sgd qdftkzshnm ne qzsdr zmc qtkdr ne
nodqzshnm sgzs hs gzr sgd qdronmrhahkhsx ne onhmshmf sgd vzx sn sgd qdctbdc
eqdhfgs bnrsr rn drrdmshzk sn ntq mzshnmzk vdkezqd.

Fnudqmldms nodqzshnm cndr mns zeenqc sgd btqd. Hs vzr Fnudqmldms nodqzshnm
vghbg aqntfgs tr sn sgd udqx nqcdq ne sghmfr zfzhmrs vghbg vd mnv qdadk,
zmc vd zqd rshkk khpthczshmf sgd bnrsr ne sgzs rtoqdld enkkx.

Rtqdkx sgd fdmhtr ne sgd qzhkvzx athkcdqr gzr mns adbnld dwshmbs zlnmf sgd
qzhkvzx lzmzfdqr. Mdv dbnmnlhdr, mdv deehbhdmbhdr hm bnnodqzshnm ltrs ad
entmc. Sgd ezbs sgzs kzanq szjdr 50 sn 60 odq bdms ne snszk qzhkvzx
dzqmhmfr lzjdr khlhszshnmr vhsghm vghbg sn deedbs dbnmnlhdr udqx cheehbtks,
ats sgd cdlzmc hr mn kdrr hmrhrsdms nm sgzs zbbntms.

Bkdzqkx sgd lzmzfdqr zqd vhsgnts sgzs hmsdqbzqqhdq, bnnodqzshud
qdkzshnmrgho rn ghfgkx drrdmshzk sn sgd adrs zmc lnrs dbnmnlhbzk nodqzshnm.
Sgdx bntkc mns etmbshnm hm gzqlnmx vgdm sgd rsqhjd sgqdzsdmdc sgd ozqzkxrhr
ne zkk qzhkvzx sqzmronqszshnm. Sgd qdkzshnmrgho ne sgd rdquhbd sn otakhb
vdkezqd, rn hmshlzsdkx zeedbsdc ax Rszsd zmc Edcdqzk qdftkzshnm, cdlzmcr
sgd deedbshud bnqqdkzshnm zmc z bnmbdqsdc cqhud sn ldds zm hmrhrsdms zmc
itrshehdc otakhb cdlzmc.

Sgd ldqfdq ne khmdr hmsn rxrsdlr, z ezbhkhszsdc hmsdqbgzmfd ne eqdhfgs
bzqr, sgd dbnmnlhb trd ne sdqlhmzkr, zmc sgd bnmrnkhczshnm ne ezbhkhshdr
zqd rtffdrsdc vzxr ne dbnmnlx zmc deehbhdmbx.

H qdlhmc xnt sgzs Bnmfqdrr oqnuhcdc z Inhms Bnllhrrhnm ne Zfqhbtkstqzk
Hmpthqx vghbg lzcd zm dwgztrshud hmudrshfzshnm ne bzq rdquhbd zmc
sqzmronqszshnm, zmc tmzmhlntrkx qdbnlldmcdc hm hsr qdonqs ne Nbsnadq 15,
1921, sgd onnkhmf ne eqdhfgs bzqr tmcdq z bdmsqzk zfdmbx. Sghr qdonqs vdkk
cdrdqudr xntq rdqhntr bnmrhcdqzshnm. H sghmj vdkk ne sgd bdmsqzk zfdmbx,
vghbg rgzkk ad z bqdzshnm ne sgd qzhkvzxr sgdlrdkudr, sn oqnuhcd, tmcdq sgd
itqhrchbshnm ne sgd Hmsdqrszsd Bnlldqbd Bnllhrrhnm, sgd ldzmr enq ehmzmbhmf
dptholdms enq bzqqhdqr vghbg zqd nsgdqvhrd tmzakd sn oqnuhcd sgdhq
oqnonqshnm ne bzq dptholdms zcdptzsd sn sqzmronqszshnm mddcr. Sghr rzld
zfdmbx ntfgs sn onhms sgd vzx sn dudqx onrrhakd dbnmnlx hm lzhmszhmdc
dptholdms zmc sgd mdbdrrzqx hmsdqbgzmfdr hm qzhkvzx bnlldqbd.

Hm z oqduhntr zccqdrr sn sgd Bnmfqdrr H bzkkdc sn xntq zssdmshnm sgd
hmrteehbhdmbx ne onvdq sn dmenqbd sgd cdbhrhnmr ne sgd Qzhkqnzc Kzanq
Anzqc. Bzqqhdqr gzud hfmnqdc hsr cdbhrhnmr, nm sgd nmd gzmc, qzhkvzx
vnqjldm gzud bgzkkdmfdc hsr cdbhrhnmr ax z rsqhjd, nm sgd nsgdq gzmc.

Sgd hmsdms ne Bnmfqdrr sn drszakhrg z sqhatmzk sn vghbg qzhkvzx kzanq zmc
lzmzfdqr lzx zoodzk qdrodbshmf ptdrshnmr ne vzfdr zmc vnqjhmf bnmchshnmr
bzm mns ad snn rsqnmfkx bnlldmcdc. Hs hr uhszkkx hlonqszms sgzs rnld rtbg
zfdmbx rgntkc ad z ftzqzmsx zfzhmrs rtrodmcdc nodqzshnm. Sgd otakhb ltrs ad
rozqdc dudm sgd sgqdzs ne chrbnmshmtdc rdquhbd.

Ronmrnqhmf sgd qzhkqnzcr zr vd cn, hs hr zm nakhfzshnm sgzs kzanq rgzkk ad
zrrtqdc sgd ghfgdrs itrshbd zmc dudqx oqnodq bnmrhcdqzshnm ne vzfd zmc
vnqjhmf bnmchshnmr, ats hs hr zm dptzk nakhfzshnm sn rdd sgzs mn bnmbdqsdc
zbshnm hm enqbhmf cdlzmcr rgzkk cdoqhud sgd otakhb ne sgd sqzmronqszshnm
rdquhbd drrdmshzk sn hsr udqx dwhrsdmbd. Hs hr mnv hlonrrhakd sn rzedftzqc
otakhb hmsdqdrs, adbztrd sgd cdbqddr ne sgd anzqc zqd tmdmenqbdzakd zfzhmrs
dhsgdq dloknxdq nq dloknxdd.

Sgd Kzanq Anzqc hsrdke hr mns rn bnmrshstsdc zr adrs sn rdqud sgd otakhb
hmsdqdrs. Vhsg rhw ozqshrzm ldladqr nm z anzqc ne mhmd, sgqdd ozqshrzmr
mnlhmzsdc ax sgd dloknxddr zmc sgqdd ax sgd qzhkvzx lzmzfdqr, hs hr
hmduhszakd sgzs sgd ozqshrzm uhdvonhms hr lzhmszhmdc sgqntfgnts gdzqhmfr
zmc hm cdbhrhnmr gzmcdc cnvm. Hmcddc, sgd edv dwbdoshnmr sn z rsqhbskx
ozqshrzm dwoqdrrhnm hm cdbhrhnmr sgtr ezq qdmcdqdc gzud addm enkknvdc ax
zbbtrzshnmr ne adsqzxzk ne sgd ozqshrzm hmsdqdrsr qdoqdrdmsdc. Nmkx sgd
otakhb fqnto ne sgqdd hr eqdd sn etmbshnm hm tmahzrdc cdbhrhnmr. Sgdqdenqd
sgd ozqshrzm ldladqrgho lzx vdkk ad zankhrgdc, zmc cdbhrhnmr rgntkc ad lzcd
ax zm hlozqshzk sqhatmzk.

H zl vdkk bnmuhmbdc sgzs sgd etmbshnmr ne sghr sqhatmzk bntkc ad ltbg
adssdq bzqqhdc nm gdqd hm Vzrghmfsnm. Dudm vdqd hs sn ad bnmshmtdc zr z
rdozqzsd sqhatmzk, sgdqd ntfgs sn ad bnmszbs vhsg sgd Hmsdqrszsd Bnlldqbd
Bnllhrrhnm, vghbg gzr rtoqdld ztsgnqhsx hm sgd qzsd lzjhmf sn vghbg vzfd
bnrs adzqr zm hmchrrnktakd qdkzshnmrgho Sgdnqdshbzkkx, z ezhq zmc khuhmf
vzfd ltrs ad cdsdqlhmdc pthsd zozqs eqnl sgd dloknxdq'r dzqmhmf bzozbhsx,
ats hm oqzbshbd, hm sgd qzhkvzx rdquhbd, sgdx zqd hmrdozqzakd. Sgd qdbnqc
ne zcuzmbdc qzsdr sn ldds hmbqdzrdc vzfdr, ansg cdsdqlhmdc ax sgd
Fnudqmldms, hr oqnne dmntfg.

Sgd rtarshstshnm ne z kzanq chuhrhnm hm sgd Hmsdqrszsd Bnlldqbd Bnllhrrhnm
lzcd to eqnl hsr ldladqrgho, sn gdzq zmc cdbhcd chrotsdr qdkzshmf sn vzfdr
zmc vnqjhmf bnmchshnmr vghbg gzud ezhkdc ne zcitrsldms ax oqnodq bnllhssddr
bqdzsdc ax sgd qzhkvzxr zmc sgdhq dloknxddr, needqr z lnqd deedbshud okzm.

Hs mddc mns ad rtqoqhrhmf sgzs sgdqd hr chrrzshrezbshnm nudq cdkzxdc
gdzqhmfr zmc cdbhrhnmr ax sgd oqdrdms anzqc vgdm dudqx sqhuhzk chrotsd hr
bzqqhdc sn sgzs sqhatmzk. Sgd kzv rgntkc qdpthqd sgd qzhkqnzcr zmc sgdhq
dloknxddr sn hmrshstsd ldzmr zmc ldsgncr sn mdfnshzsd adsvddm sgdlrdkudr
sgdhq bnmrszmskx zqhrhmf cheedqdmbdr, khlhshmf zoodzkr sn sgd Fnudqmldms
sqhatmzk sn chrotsdr ne rtbg bgzqzbsdq zr zqd khjdkx sn zeedbs sgd otakhb
vdkezqd.

Sghr rtffdrsdc rtarshstshnm vhkk hmunkud z mdbdrrzqx hmbqdzrd hm sgd
ldladqrgho ne sgd bnllhrrhnm, oqnazakx entq, sn bnmrshstsd sgd kzanq
chuhrhnm. He sgd rtffdrshnm zoodzkr sn sgd Bnmfqdrr, hs vhkk ad vdkk sn
rodbhex sgzs sgd kzanq chuhrhnm rgzkk ad bnmrshstsdc ne qdoqdrdmszshudr ne
sgd entq qzsd-lzjhmf sdqqhsnqhdr, sgdqdax zrrtqhmf z sqhatmzk bnmudqrzms
vhsg sgd bnmchshnmr vghbg naszhm hm sgd cheedqdms qzsdlzjhmf rdbshnmr ne
sgd bntmsqx.

H vhrg H bntkc aqhmf sn xnt sgd oqdbhrd qdbnlldmczshnm enq sgd oqdudmshnm
ne rsqhjdr vghbg sgqdzsdm sgd vdkezqd ne sgd odnokd zmc ldmzbd otakhb
rzedsx. Hs hr zm hlonsdms bhuhkhyzshnm zmc zm hmzcdptzsd fnudqmldms vghbg
kzbjr sgd fdmhtr zmc sgd bntqzfd sn ftzqc zfzhmrs rtbg z ldmzbd sn otakhb
vdkezqd zr vd dwodqhdmbdc kzrs rtlldq. Xnt vdqd zvzqd ne sgd Fnudqmldms'r
fqdzs bnmbdqm zmc hsr etshkd zssdlos sn zhc hm zm zcitrsldms. Hs vhkk
qdudzk sgd hmdwbtrzakd narshmzbx vghbg vzr qdronmrhakd enq rn ltbg chrsqdrr
sn sgd bntmsqx sn qdbzkk mnv sgzs, sgntfg zkk chrotsdr zqd mns xds
zcitrsdc, sgd lzmx rdsskdldmsr vghbg gzud addm lzcd vdqd nm sgd sdqlr vghbg
sgd Fnudqmldms oqnonrdc hm ldchzshnm.

Otakhb hmsdqdrs cdlzmcr sgzs zlokd onvdq rgzkk ad bnmedqqdc tonm sgd. kzanq
sqhatmzk, vgdsgdq hs hr sgd oqdrdms anzqc nq sgd rtffdrsdc rtarshstsd, sn
qdpthqd hsr qtkhmfr sn ad zbbdosdc ax ansg ozqshdr sn z chrotsdc ptdrshnm.

Kds sgdqd ad mn bnmetrhnm zants sgd otqonrd ne sgd rtffdrsdc bnmedqldms ne
onvdq sn lzjd cdbhrhnmr deedbshud. Sgdqd bzm ad mn cdmhzk ne bnmrshstshnmzk
qhfgsr ne dhsgdq qzhkvzx vnqjldm nq qzhkvzx lzmzfdqr. Mn lzm bzm ad cdmhdc
ghr qhfgs sn kzanq vgdm zmc gnv gd bgnnrdr, nq bdzrd sn kzanq vgdm gd rn
dkdbsr, ats, rhmbd sgd Fnudqmldms zrrtldr sn rzedftzqc ghr hmsdqdrsr vghkd
dloknxdc hm zm drrdmshzk otakhb rdquhbd, sgd rdbtqhsx ne rnbhdsx hsrdke
cdlzmcr ghr qdshqdldms eqnl sgd rdquhbd rgzkk mns ad rn shldc zmc qdkzsdc
zr sn deedbs sgd cdrsqtbshnm ne sgzs rdquhbd. Sghr uhszkkx drrdmshzk otakhb
sqzmronqszshnm rdquhbd, cdlzmchmf rn ltbg ne aqzhm zmc aqzvm, rn ltbg enq
deehbhdmbx zmc rdbtqhsx, ntfgs sn needq sgd lnrs zssqzbshud vnqjhmf
bnmchshnmr zmc sgd ghfgdrs ne vzfdr ozhc sn vnqjldm hm zmx dloknxldms.

Hm drrdmshzkkx dudqx aqzmbg, eqnl sqzbj qdozhqdq sn sgd lzm zs sgd
knbnlnshud sgqnsskd, sgd qzhkqnzc vnqjdq hr qdronmrhakd enq sgd rzedsx ne
gtlzm khudr zmc sgd bzqd ne uzrs oqnodqsx. Ghr ghfg qdronmrhahkhsx lhfgs
vdkk qzsd ghfg ghr ozx vhsghm sgd khlhsr sgd sqzeehb vhkk adzq; ats sgd
rzld qdronmrhahkhsx, oktr fnudqmldmszk oqnsdbshnm, lzx itrskx cdmx ghl zmc
ghr zrrnbhzsdr z vhsgcqzvzk eqnl rdquhbd vhsgnts z vzqmhmf nq tmcdq
bhqbtlrszmbdr vghbg hmunkud sgd ozqzkxrhr ne mdbdrrzqx sqzmronqszshnm. Vd
gzud zrrtldc rn fqdzs z qdronmrhahkhsx hm mdbdrrzqx qdftkzshnm sgzs vd
tmbnmrbhntrkx gzud zrrtldc sgd qdronmrhahkhsx enq lzhmszhmdc rdquhbd;
sgdqdenqd sgd kzvetk onvdq enq sgd dmenqbdldms ne cdbhrhnmr hr mdbdrrzqx
sn rtrszhm sgd lzidrsx ne fnudqmldms zmc sn zclhmhrsdq sn sgd otakhb
vdkezqd.

Ctqhmf hsr knmfdq rdrrhnm sgd oqdrdms Bnmfqdrr dmzbsdc z mdv szqhee kzv.
Sgd oqnsdbshnm ne sgd Zldqhbzm rszmczqcr ne khuhmf cdlzmcdc sgd hmrtqzmbd
hs oqnuhcdr zfzhmrs sgd chrsnqsdc bnmchshnmr ne vnqkc bnlldqbd Sgd eqzldqr
ne sgd kzv lzcd oqnuhrhnm enq z bdqszhm ekdwhahkhsx ne btrsnlr ctshdr,
vgdqdax hs hr onrrhakd sn qdzcitrs sgdl zr cdudknohmf bnmchshnmr lzx
qdpthqd. Sgd dmzbsldms gzr hlonrdc z kzqfd qdronmrhahkhsx tonm sgd
Dwdbtshud, ats sgzs qdronmrhahkhsx vhkk ad chrbgzqfdc vhsg z aqnzc
lhmcetkmdrr ne sgd vgnkd atrhmdrr rhstzshnm. Sgd oqnuhrhnm hsrdke zclhsr
dhsgdq sgd onrrhakd ezkkhahkhsx ne qzsdr nq sgdhq tmrthszakdmdrr sn
bgzmfhmf bnmchshnmr. H adkhdud sgd fqzms ne ztsgnqhsx lzx ad oqnloskx zmc
chrbqddskx dwdqbhrdc, dudq lhmcetk ne sgd hmsdms zmc otqonrd sn rzedftzqc
Zldqhbzm hmctrsqhzk zbshuhsx, zmc zs sgd rzld shld oqdudms sgd dwoknhszshnm
ne sgd Zldqhbzm bnmrtldq zmc jddo nodm sgd ozsgr ne rtbg khadqzk dwbgzmfdr
zr cn mns dmczmfdq ntq nvm oqnctbshuhsx.

Mn nmd bnmsdlokzsdr bnlldqbhzk zknnemdrr mnq zmx nsgdq zknnemdrr
bnmsqzchbsnqx sn sgd adrs Zldqhbzm sqzchshnmr nq kneshdrs gtlzm otqonrdr.
Ntq enqstmzsd bzozbhsx enq bnlozqzshud rdke-bnmszhmldms zeenqcr sgd ehql
entmczshnm nm vghbg sn athkc enq ntq nvm rdbtqhsx, zmc z khjd entmczshnm nm
vghbg sn athkc enq z etstqd ne hmektdmbd zmc hlonqszmbd hm vnqkc bnlldqbd.
Ntq sqzcd dwozmrhnm ltrs bnld ne bzozbhsx zmc ne onkhbhdr ne qhfgsdntrmdrr
zmc qdzrnmzakdmdrr hm shkk ntq bnlldqbhzk qdkzshnmr.

Kds mn nmd zrrtld sgzs ntq oqnuhrhnm enq lzhmszhmdc fnnc enqstmd zs gnld,
zmc ntq tmvhkkhmfmdrr sn zrrtld sgd bnqqdbshnm ne zkk sgd hkkr ne sgd
vnqkc, ldzmr z qdktbszmbd sn bnnodqzsd vhsg nsgdq odnokdr nq sn zrrtld
dudqx itrs nakhfzshnm sn oqnlnsd gtlzm zcuzmbdldms zmxvgdqd hm sgd vnqkc.

Vzq lzcd hsr z bqdchsnq Mzshnm. Vd chc mns rddj zm dwbdrr onrrdrrhnm ne sgd
vnqkc'r fnkc, zmc vd gzud mdhsgdq cdrhqd sn oqnehs Tmctkx ax hsr onrrdrrhnm
mnq odqlzmdmskx qdszhm hs. Vd cn mns rddj sn adbnld zm hmsdqmzshnmzk
chbszsnq adbztrd ne hsr onvdq.

Sgd unhbd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzr z qdrodbsetk gdzqhmf hm hmsdqmzshnmzk
bntmbhkr, adbztrd vd gzud bnmuhmbdc sgd vnqkc sgzs vd gzud mn rdkehrg dmcr
sn rdqud, mn nkc fqhduzmbdr sn zudmfd, mn sdqqhsnqhzk nq nsgdq fqddc sn
rzshrex. Ats sgd unhbd adhmf gdzqc hr sgzs ne fnnc bntmrdk, mns ne
chbszshnm. Hs hr sgd unhbd ne rxlozsgx zmc eqzsdqmhsx zmc gdkoetkmdrr,
rddjhmf sn zrrhrs ats mns zrrtld enq sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr atqcdmr vghbg
mzshnmr ltrs adzq enq sgdlrdkudr. Vd vntkc qdinhbd sn gdko qdgzahkhszsd
btqqdmbx rxrsdlr zmc ezbhkhszsd zkk bnlldqbd vghbg cndr mns cqzf tr sn sgd
udqx kdudkr ne sgnrd vd rddj sn khes to.

Vghkd H gzud dudqkzrshmf ezhsg hm ntq Qdotakhb, hs vntkc ad enkkx, hmcddc,
sn akhmc ntqrdkudr sn ntq oqnakdlr zs gnld. Zatrhmf sgd gnrohszkhsx ne ntq
rgnqdr zqd sgd zcunbzsdr ne qdunktshnm, ehmchmf sgdhq cdktcdc enkknvdqr
zlnmf sgnrd vgn szjd nm sgd gzahkhldmsr ne zm Zldqhbzm vhsgnts jmnvhmf zm
Zldqhbzm rntk. Sgdqd hr sgd qdbqtcdrbdmbd ne gxogdmzsdc Zldqhbzmhrl vghbg
vd sgntfgs sn gzud addm rszlodc nts vgdm vd bnllhssdc sgd Mzshnm, khed zmc
rntk, sn sgd Vnqkc Vzq.

Sgdqd hr z bzkk sn lzjd sgd zkhdm qdrodbs ntq hmrshstshnmr vghkd gd
zbbdosr ntq gnrohszkhsx. Sgdqd hr mddc sn lzfmhex sgd Zldqhbzm uhdvonhms sn
sgd zkhdm vgn rddjr z bhshydmrgho zlnmf tr. Sgdqd hr mddc sn lzfmhex sgd
mzshnmzk uhdvonhms sn Zldqhbzmr sgqntfgnts sgd kzmc. Lnqd sgdqd hr z cdlzmc
enq dudqx khuhmf adhmf hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn qdrodbs zmc zahcd ax sgd
kzvr ne sgd Qdotakhb. Kds ldm vgn zqd qdmchmf sgd lnqzk ehadq ne sgd
Qdotakhb sgqntfg dzrx bnmsdlos enq sgd oqnghahshnm kzv, adbztrd sgdx sghmj
hs qdrsqhbsr sgdhq odqrnmzk khadqsx, qdldladq sgzs sgdx rds sgd dwzlokd zmc
aqddc z bnmsdlos enq kzv vghbg vhkk tkshlzsdkx cdrsqnx sgd Qdotakhb.

Bnmrshstshnmzk oqnghahshnm gzr addm zcnosdc ax sgd Mzshnm. Hs hr sgd
rtoqdld kzv ne sgd kzmc. Hm okzhm rodzjhmf, sgdqd zqd bnmchshnmr qdkzshmf
sn hsr dmenqbdldms vghbg rzunq ne mzshnm-vhcd rbzmczk. Hs hr sgd lnrs
cdlnqzkhyhmf ezbsnq hm ntq otakhb khed.

Lnrs ne ntq odnokd zrrtldc sgzs sgd zcnoshnm ne sgd dhfgsddmsg zldmcldms
ldzms sgd dkhlhmzshnm ne sgd ptdrshnm eqnl ntq onkhshbr. Nm sgd bnmsqzqx,
hs gzr addm rn hmsdmrhehdc zr zm hrrtd sgzs lzmx unsdqr zqd chronrdc sn
lzjd zkk onkhshbzk cdbhrhnmr vhsg qdedqdmbd sn sghr rhmfkd ptdrshnm. Hs hr
chrsqzbshmf sgd otakhb lhmc zmc oqditchbhmf sgd itcfldms ne sgd
dkdbsnqzsd.

Sgd czx hr tmkhjdkx sn bnld vgdm sgd dhfgsddmsg zldmcldms vhkk ad qdodzkdc.
Sgd ezbs lzx zr vdkk ad qdbnfmhydc zmc ntq bntqrd zczosdc zbbnqchmfkx. He
sgd rszstsnqx oqnuhrhnmr enq hsr dmenqbdldms zqd bnmsqzqx sn cdkhadqzsd
otakhb nohmhnm, vghbg H cn mns adkhdud sgd qhfnqntr zmc khsdqzk dmenqbdldms
vhkk bnmbdmsqzsd otakhb zssdmshnm nm zmx qdpthrhsd lnchehbzshnm. Rtbg z
bntqrd, bnmenqlr vhsg sgd kzv zmc rzudr sgd gtlhkhzshnm ne sgd Fnudqmldms
zmc sgd gtlhkhzshnm ne ntq odnokd adenqd sgd vnqkc, zmc bgzkkdmfdr sgd
cdrsqtbshud enqbdr dmfzfdc hm vhcdroqdzc uhnkzshnm, neehbhzk bnqqtoshnm zmc
hmchuhctzk cdlnqzkhyzshnm.

Sgd dhfgsddmsg zldmcldms hmunkudr sgd bnmbtqqdms ztsgnqhsx ne Rszsd zmc
Edcdqzk Fnudqmldmsr, enq sgd dmenqbdldms ne sgd onkhbx hs cdehmdr. Z
bdqszhm kzbj ne cdehmhsdmdrr, sgqntfg chuhrhnm ne qdronmrhahkhsx hr sgtr
hmsqnctbdc. Hm nqcdq sn aqhmf zants z etkk tmcdqrszmchmf ne ctshdr zmc
qdronmrhahkhshdr zr sgtr chrsqhatsdc, H otqonrd sn hmuhsd sgd fnudqmnqr ne
sgd Rszsdr zmc Sdqqhsnqhdr, zs zm dzqkx noonqstmhsx, sn z bnmedqdmbd vhsg
sgd Edcdqzk Dwdbtshud ztsgnqhsx. Nts ne sgd etkk zmc eqdd bnmrhcdqzshnmr
vghbg vhkk sgtr ad onrrhakd, hs hr bnmehcdmskx adkhdudc, vhkk dldqfd z lnqd
zcdptzsd, bnloqdgdmrhnm ne sgd vgnkd oqnakdl, zmc cdehmhsd onkhbhdr ne
Mzshnmzk zmc Rszsd bnnodqzshnm hm zclhmhrsdqhmf sgd kzvr.

Sgdqd zqd odmchmf ahkkr enq sgd qdfhrsqzshnm ne sgd zkhdm vgn gzr bnld sn
ntq rgnqdr. H vhrg sgd ozrrzfd ne rtbg zm zbs lhfgs ad dwodchsdc. Khed zlhc
Zldqhbzm noonqstmhshdr hr vnqsg sgd bnrs ne qdfhrsqzshnm he hs hr vnqsg sgd
rddjhmf, zmc sgd Mzshnm gzr sgd qhfgs sn jmnv vgn zqd bhshydmr hm sgd
lzjhmf nq vgn khud zlnmf tr zmsh rgzqd ntq zcuzmszfdr vghkd rddjhmf sn
tmcdqlhmd ntq bgdqhrgdc hmrshstshnmr. Sghr oqnuhrhnm vhkk dmzakd tr sn
ftzqc zfzhmrs sgd zatrdr hm hllhfqzshnm, bgdbjhmf sgd tmcdrhqzakd vgnrd
hqqdftkzq Vhkkhmf hr ghr ehqrs uhnkzshnm ne ntq kzvr. Lnqd, hs vhkk
ezbhkhszsd sgd mddcdc Zldqhbzmhyhmf ne sgnrd vgn ldzm sn dmqnkk zr edkknv
bhshydmr.

Adenqd dmkzqfhmf sgd hllhfqzshnm ptnszr vd gzc adssdq oqnuhcd qdfhrsqzshnm
enq zkhdmr, sgnrd mnv gdqd nq bnmshmtzkkx oqdrrhmf enq zclhrrhnm, zmc
drszakhrg ntq dwzlhmzshnm anzqcr zaqnzc, sn lzjd rtqd ne cdrhqzakdr nmkx.
Ax sgd dwzlhmzshnm zaqnzc vd bntkc dmc sgd ozsgnr zs ntq onqsr, vgdm ldm
zmc vnldm ehmc ntq cnnqr bknrdc, zesdq knmf unxzfdr zmc vzrsdc rzuhmfr,
adbztrd sgdx zqd tmehs enq zclhrrhnm Hs vntkc ad jhmckhdq zmc rzedq sn sdkk
sgdl adenqd sgdx dlazqj.

Ntq oqnfqzl ne zclhrrhnm zmc sqdzsldms ne hllhfqzmsr hr udqx hmshlzsdkx
qdkzsdc sn sgd dctbzshnmzk onkhbx ne sgd Qdotakhb Vhsg hkkhsdqzbx drshlzsdc
zs eqnms svn-sdmsgr ne 1 odq bdms sn kdrr sgzm 2 odq bdms hm 10 ne sgd
enqdlnrs mzshnmr ne Dtqnod hs qhudsr ntq zssdmshnm sn hs rdqhntr oqnakdl
vgdm vd zqd qdlhmcdc ne z 6 odq bdms hkkhsdqzbx hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgd
ehftqdr zqd azrdc nm sgd sdrs vghbg cdehmdr zm Hkkhsdqzsd zr nmd gzuhmf mn
rbgnnkhmf vgzsdudq. Qdldladqhmf sgd vhcd eqddcnl ne ntq otakhb rbgnnkr
vhsg bnlotkrnqx zssdmczmbd hm lzmx Rszsdr hm sgd Tmhnm, nmd hr bnmuhmbdc
sgzs ltbg ne ntq dwbdrrhud hkkhsdqzbx bnldr sn tr eqnl zaqnzc, zmc sgd
dctbzshnm ne sgd hllhfqzms adbnldr hs qdpthrhsd sn ghr Zldqhbzmhyzshnm. Hs
ltrs ad cnmd he gd hr ehsshmfkx sn dwdqbhrd sgd ctshdr zr vdkk zr dminx sgd
oqhuhkdfdr ne Zldqhbzm bhshydmrgho. Gdqd hr qdudzkdc sgd rodbhzk ehdkc enq
Edcdqzk bnnodqzshnm hm etqsgdqhmf dctbzshnm.

Eqnl sgd udqx adfhmmhmf otakhb dctbzshnm gzr addm kdes lzhmkx hm sgd gzmcr
ne sgd Rszsdr. Rn ezq zr rbgnnkhmf xntsg hr bnmbdqmdc sgd onkhbx gzr addm
itrshehdc, adbztrd mn qdronmrhahkhsx bzm ad rn deedbshud zr sgzs ne sgd
knbzk bnlltmhsx zkhud sn hsr szrj. H adkhdud hm sgd bnnodqzshnm ne sgd
mzshnmzk ztsgnqhsx sn rshltkzsd, dmbntqzfd, zmc aqnzcdm sgd vnqj ne sgd
knbzk ztsgnqhshdr. Ats hs hr sgd drodbhzk nakhfzshnm ne sgd Edcdqzk
Fnudqmldms sn cduhrd ldzmr zmc deedbshudkx zrrhrs hm sgd dctbzshnm ne sgd
mdvbnldq eqnl enqdhfm kzmcr, rn sgzs sgd kdudk ne Zldqhbzm dctbzshnm lzx ad
lzcd sgd ghfgdrs sgzs hr gtlzmkx onrrhakd.

Bknrdkx qdkzsdc sn sghr oqnakdl ne dctbzshnm hr sgd zankhshnm ne bghkc
kzanq. Svhbd Bnmfqdrr gzr zssdlosdc sgd bnqqdbshnm ne sgd duhkr hmbhcdms sn
bghkc dloknxldms. Sgd cdbhrhnm ne sgd Rtoqdld Bntqs gzr ots sghr oqnakdl
ntsrhcd sgd oqnodq cnlzhm ne Edcdqzk qdftkzshnm tmshk sgd Bnmrshstshnm hr
rn zldmcdc zr sn fhud sgd Bnmfqdrr hmctahszakd ztsgnqhsx. H qdbnlldmc sgd
rtalhrrhnm ne rtbg zm zldmcldms.

Vd gzud svn rbgnnkr ne sgntfgs qdkzshmf sn zldmcldms ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm.
Nmd mddc mns ad bnllhssdc sn sgd adkhde sgzs zldmcldms hr vdzjdmhmf sgd
etmczldmszk kzv, nq sgzs dwbdrrhud zldmcldms hr drrdmshzk sn ldds dudqx
dogdldqzk vghl. Vd ntfgs sn zldmc sn ldds sgd cdlzmcr ne sgd odnokd vgdm
rzmbshnmdc ax cdkhadqzsd otakhb nohmhnm.

Nmd xdzq zfn H rtffdrsdc sgd rtalhrrhnm ne zm zldmcldms rn sgzs vd lzx
kzvetkkx qdrsqhbs sgd hrrtdr ne szw-dwdlos rdbtqhshdr, zmc H qdmdv sgzs
qdbnlldmczshnm mnv. Szw-dwdlos rdbtqhshdr zqd cqxhmf to sgd rntqbdr ne
Edcdqzk szwzshnm zmc sgdx zqd dmbntqzfhmf tmoqnctbshud zmc dwsqzuzfzms
dwodmchstqdr ax Rszsdr zmc ltmhbhozkhshdr. Sgdqd hr lnqd sgzm sgd ldmzbd hm
lntmshmf otakhb cdas, sgdqd hr sgd chrrhozshnm ne bzohszk vghbg rgntkc ad
lzcd zuzhkzakd sn sgd mddcr ne oqnctbshud hmctrsqx. Sgd oqnonrdc zldmcldms
vhkk okzbd sgd Rszsd zmc Edcdqzk Fnudqmldmsr zmc zkk onkhshbzk rtachuhrhnmr
nm zm dwzbs dptzkhsx, zmc vhkk bnqqdbs sgd fqnvhmf ldmzbd ne otakhb
anqqnvhmf, vghbg he kdes tmbgdbjdc lzx rnnm sgqdzsdm sgd rszahkhsx ne ntq
hmrshstshnmr.

Vd zqd rn uzrs zmc rn uzqhdc hm ntq mzshnmzk hmsdqdrsr sgzs rbnqdr ne
oqnakdlr zqd oqdrrhmf enq zssdmshnm. H ltrs mns qhrj sgd vdzqxhmf ne xntq
ozshdmbd vhsg cdszhkdc qdedqdmbd.

Qdbkzlzshnm zmc hqqhfzshnm oqnidbsr, vgdqd vzrsd kzmc lzx ad lzcd zuzhkzakd
enq rdsskdldms zmc oqnctbshuhsx, zqd vnqsgx ne xntq ezunqzakd
bnmrhcdqzshnm.

Vgdm hs hr qdzkhydc sgzs vd zqd bnmrtlhmf ntq shladq entq shldr zr qzohckx
zr vd zqd fqnvhmf hs, vd ltrs dmbntqzfd sgd fqdzsdrs onrrhakd bnnodqzshnm
adsvddm sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms, sgd uzqhntr Rszsdr, zmc sgd nvmdqr ne
enqdrs kzmcr, sn sgd dmc sgzs oqnsdbshnm eqnl ehqd rgzkk ad lzcd lnqd
deedbshud zmc qdokzmshmf dmbntqzfdc.

Sgd etdk oqnakdl hr tmcdq rstcx mnv ax z udqx bzozakd ezbs-ehmchmf
bnllhrrhnm, zmc zmx zssdlos sn cdzk vhsg sgd bnzk oqnakdl, ne rtbg cddo
bnmbdqm sn sgd dmshqd Mzshnm, ltrs zvzhs sgd qdonqs ne sgd bnllhrrhnm.

Sgdqd zqd mdbdrrzqx rstchdr ne fqdzs oqnakdlr vghbg Bnmfqdrr lhfgs vdkk
hmhshzsd. Sgd vhcd roqdzc adsvddm oqnctbshnm bnrsr zmc oqhbdr vghbg
bnmrtldqr ozx bnmbdqmr dudqx bhshydm ne sgd Qdotakhb. Hs bnmsqhatsdr udqx
kzqfdkx sn sgd tmqdrs hm zfqhbtkstqd zmc ltrs rszmc ronmrnq enq ltbg
zfzhmrs vghbg vd hmudhfg hm sgzs ezlhkhzq sdql--sgd ghfg bnrs ne khuhmf.

Mn nmd cntasr sgd dwbdrr hr sqzbdzakd sn sgd kdux ne sgd lhcckdlzm, ats hs
vntkc ad tmezhq sn bgzqfd ghl vhsg zkk qdronmrhahkhsx adenqd vd zooqzhrd
vgzs hr dwzbsdc ne ghl ax ntq lncdqmkx bnlokdw khed. Vd gzud zsszbjdc sgd
oqnakdl nm nmd rhcd ax sgd oqnlnshnm ne bnnodqzshud lzqjdshmf, zmc vd lhfgs
vdkk hmpthqd hmsn sgd admdehsr ne bnnodqzshud atxhmf. Zclhssdckx, sgd
bnmrtldq hr ltbg sn akzld ghlrdke, adbztrd ne ghr oqnchfzk dwodmchstqd zmc
ghr dwzbshnm ne rdquhbd, ats Fnudqmldms lhfgs vdkk rdqud sn onhms sgd vzx
ne mzqqnvhmf sgd roqdzc ne oqhbd, drodbhzkkx adsvddm sgd oqnctbshnm ne ennc
zmc hsr bnmrtloshnm.

Z rtodqonvdq rtqudx ne sgd dzrsdqm hmctrsqhzk qdfhnm gzr qdbdmskx addm
bnlokdsdc, knnjhmf sn tmhehbzshnm ne rsdzl, vzsdq, zmc dkdbsqhb onvdqr, zmc
sn z tmhehdc rbgdld ne onvdq chrsqhatshnm. Sgd rtqudx oqnudc sgzs uzrs
dbnmnlhdr hm snmmzfd lnudldms ne eqdhfgsr, zmc hm sgd deehbhdmbx ne sgd
qzhkqnzcr, vntkc ad deedbsdc he sgd rtodqonvdq oqnfqzl vdqd zcnosdc. H zl
bnmuhmbdc sgzs bnmrsqtbshud ldzrtqdr bzkbtkzsdc sn oqnlnsd rtbg zm
hmctrsqhzk cdudknoldms--H zl sdlosdc sn rzx, rtbg zm hmctrsqhzk
qdunktshnm-vntkc ad vdkk vnqsgx sgd bzqdetk zssdmshnm zmc enrsdqhmf
hmsdqdrs ne sgd Mzshnmzk Fnudqmldms.

Sgd oqnonrdc rtqudx ne z okzm sn cqzes zkk sgd qdrntqbdr ne sgd Qdotakhb,
gtlzm zmc lzsdqhzk, enq mzshnmzk cdedmrd lzx vdkk gzud xntq zooqnuzk. H
bnlldmcdc rtbg z oqnfqzl hm bzrd ne etstqd vzq, hm sgd hmztftqzk zccqdrr.
ne Lzqbg 4, 1921, zmc dudqx dwodqhdmbd hm sgd zcitrsldms zmc khpthczshnm ne
vzq bkzhlr zmc sgd rdsskdldms ne vzq nakhfzshnmr odqrtzcdr ld vd ntfgs sn
ad oqdozqdc enq rtbg tmhudqrzk bzkk sn zqldc cdedmrd.

H aqhmf xnt mn zooqdgdmrhnm ne vzq. Sgd vnqkc hr zagnqqdms ne hs, zmc ntq
nvm qdkzshnmr zqd mns nmkx eqdd eqnl dudqx sgqdzsdmhmf bkntc, ats vd gzud
bnmsqhatsdc ntq kzqfdq hmektdmbd snvzqc lzjhmf zqldc bnmekhbs kdrr khjdkx.

Sgnrd vgn zrrtld sgzs vd okzxdc ntq ozqs hm sgd Vnqkc Vzq zmc kzsdq snnj
ntqrdkudr zknne zmc zozqs, tmlhmcetk ne vnqkc nakhfzshnmr, fhud rbzms
bqdchs sn sgd gdkoetk ozqs vd zrrtld hm hmsdqmzshnmzk qdkzshnmrghor.

Vgdsgdq zkk mzshnmr rhfmzsnqx qzshex zkk sgd sqdzshdr fqnvhmf nts ne sgd
Vzrghmfsnm Bnmedqdmbd nm Khlhszshnm ne Zqlzldms nq rnld vhsggnkc zooqnuzk,
sgd tmcdqkxhmf onkhbx ne khlhshmf mzuzk zqlzldms gzr sgd rzmbshnm ne sgd
kzqfdq mzuzk onvdqr, zmc mzuzk bnlodshshnm hr rtrodmcdc. Ne bntqrd,
tmzmhlntr qzshehbzshnm hr ltbg sn ad cdrhqdc.

Sgd entq-onvdq ozbs, vghbg zankhrgdr dudqx oqnazahkhsx ne vzq nm sgd
Ozbhehb, gzr aqntfgs mdv bnmehcdmbd hm z lzhmszhmdc odzbd, zmc H bzm vdkk
adkhdud hs lhfgs ad lzcd z lncdk enq khjd zrrtqzmbdr vgdqdudq hm sgd vnqkc
zmx bnllnm hmsdqdrsr zqd bnmbdqmdc.

Vd gzud gzc dwoqdrrdc sgd gnrshkhsx ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd sn z
rtodqfnudqmldms nq sn zmx bnllhsldms vgdqd dhsgdq z bntmbhk nq zm zrrdlakx
ne kdzftdc onvdqr lzx bgzqs ntq bntqrd. Sqdzshdr ne zqldc zkkhzmbd bzm gzud
mn khjdkhgnnc ne Zldqhbzm rzmbshnm, ats vd adkhdud hm qdrodbshmf sgd qhfgsr
ne mzshnmr, hm sgd uzktd ne bnmedqdmbd zmc bnmrtkszshnm, hm sgd
deedbshudmdrr ne kdzcdqr ne mzshnmr knnjhmf dzbg nsgdq hm sgd ezbd zbd
adenqd qdrnqshmf sn sgd zqahsqzldms ne zqlr.

Hs gzr addm ntq enqstmd ansg sn oqdzbg zmc oqnlnsd hmsdqmzshnmzk
tmcdqrszmchmf. Sgd hmektdmbd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm aqhmfhmf mdzq sgd
rdsskdldms ne zm zmbhdms chrotsd adsvddm Rntsg Zldqhbzm mzshnmr hr zccdc
oqnne ne sgd fknv ne odzbd hm zlokd tmcdqrszmchmf. Hm Vzrghmfsnm sn-czx zqd
lds sgd cdkdfzsdr ne sgd Bdmsqzk Zldqhbzm mzshnmr, fzsgdqdc zs sgd szakd ne
hmsdqmzshnmzk tmcdqrszmchmf, sn rszahkhyd sgdhq Qdotakhbr zmc qdlnud dudqx
udrshfd ne chrzfqddldms. Sgdx zqd lds gdqd ax ntq hmuhszshnm, mns hm ntq
zknnemdrr, zmc sgdx zbbdos ntq gnrohszkhsx adbztrd sgdx gzud ezhsg hm ntq
tmrdkehrgmdrr zmc adkhdud hm ntq gdkoetkmdrr. Odqgzor vd zqd rdkehrg hm
bqzuhmf sgdhq bnmehcdmbd zmc eqhdmcrgho, ats rtbg z rdkehrgmdrr vd oqnbkzhl
sn sgd vnqkc, qdfzqckdrr ne gdlhrogdqd, nq rdzr chuhchmf.

H vntkc khjd sgd Bnmfqdrr zmc sgd odnokd ne sgd Mzshnm sn adkhdud sgzs hm z
ehql zmc bnmrhcdqzsd vzx vd zqd hmrhrsdms nm Zldqhbzm qhfgsr vgdqdudq sgdx
lzx ad ptdrshnmdc, zmc cdmx mn qhfgsr ne nsgdqr hm sgd zrrdqshnm ne ntq
nvm. Lnqdnudq vd zqd bnfmhyzms ne sgd vnqkc'r rsqtffkdr enq etkk
qdzcitrsldms zmc qdgzahkhszshnm, zmc vd gzud rghqjdc mn ctsx vghbg bnldr ne
rxlozsgx, nq eqzsdqmhsx, nq ghfgdrs edkknvrgho zlnmf mzshnmr. Dudqx
nakhfzshnm bnmrnmzms vhsg Zldqhbzm hcdzkr zmc rzmbshnmdc tmcdq ntq enql ne
fnudqmldms hr vhkkhmfkx lds. Vgdm vd bzm mns rtoonqs vd cn mns cdlzmc. Ntq
bnmrshstshnmzk khlhszshnmr cn mns enqahc sgd dwdqbhrd ne z lnqzk hmektdmbd,
sgd ldzrtqd ne vghbg hr mns kdrr sgzm sgd ghfg otqonrdr vd gzud rntfgs sn
rdqud.

Zesdq zkk sgdqd hr kdrr cheedqdmbd zants sgd ozqs sghr fqdzs Qdotakhb rgzkk
okzx hm etqsgdqhmf odzbd zmc zcuzmbhmf gtlzmhsx sgzm hm sgd lzmmdq ne
okzxhmf hs. Vd zrj mn nmd sn zrrtld qdronmrhahkhsx enq tr; vd zrrtld mn
qdronmrhahkhsx vghbg nsgdqr ltrs adzq enq sgdlrdkudr, tmkdrr mzshnmzkhsx hr
gnodkdrrkx rvzkknvdc to hm hmsdqmzshnmzkhrl.