GL. MJYUEYL UHX GYGVYLM IZ NBY WIHALYMM:

Cn cm u pyls alunczscha jlcpcfyay ni wigy ni nby Wihalymm qcnb nby Lyjovfcw
un jyuwy qcnb uff nby huncihm iz nby qilfx. Gily, cn cm ykouffs alunczscha
ni lyjiln nbun iol wiohnls cm hin ihfs zlyy zlig ypyls cgjyhxcha, gyhuwy iz
qul, von nbyly uly aliqcha ummoluhwym iz nby jylguhyhws iz nby jyuwy qbcwb
qy mi xyyjfs wbylcmb.

Zil ujjlircgunyfs nyh syulm qy bupy xqyfn ugcx gyhuwym iz qul il um
julncwcjuhnm ch qul'm uwnoufcncym, uhx nby chypcnuvfy uznylgunb, qcnb cnm
xcmilxylyx wihxcncihm, vcnm uxxyx ni nby xczzcwofncym iz aipylhgyhn qbcwb
uxykounyfs wuh hin vy ujjlucmyx yrwyjn vs, nbimy qbi uly ch cggyxcuny
wihnuwn uhx ehiq nby lymjihmcvcfcncym. Iol numem qiofx vy fymm xczzcwofn cz
qy bux ihfs iolmyfpym ni wihmcxyl, von mi gowb iz nby qilfx qum chpifpyx,
nby xcmilxylyx wihxcncihm uly mi qyff-hcab ohcpylmuf, ypyh ugiha huncihm
hin yhauayx ch uwnouf qulzuly, nbun hi jylguhyhn lyuxdomngyhnm wuh vy
yzzywnyx qcnbion wihmcxyluncih iz iol chymwujuvfy lyfuncihmbcj ni qilfx
uzzuclm ch zchuhwy uhx nluxy. Chxyyx, qy mbiofx vy ohqilnbs iz iol vymn
nluxcncihm cz qy qyly ohgchxzof iz miwcuf, giluf, uhx jifcncwuf wihxcncihm
qbcwb uly hin iz xclywn wihwylh ni om, von qbcwb xi ujjyuf ni nby boguh
msgjunbcym uhx nby pyls vywigcha chnylymn iz u jyijfy vfymn qcnb iol
huncihuf aiix zilnohy.

Cn cm hin gs joljimy ni vlcha ni sio u jlialug iz qilfx lymniluncih. Ch nby
guch mowb u jlialug gomn vy qileyx ion vs nby huncihm gily xclywnfs
wihwylhyx. Nbys gomn nbygmyfpym nolh ni nby bylicw lygyxcym zil nby
gyhuwcha wihxcncihm ohxyl qbcwb nbys uly mnloaafcha, nbyh qy wuh byfj, uhx
qy gyuh ni byfj. Qy mbuff xi mi ohmyfzcmbfs vywuomy nbyly cm wigjyhmuncih
ch nby wihmwciomhymm iz ummcmncha, myfzcmbfs vywuomy nby wiggylwy uhx
chnylhuncihuf yrwbuhaym ch nluxy, qbcwb guleyx iol bcab ncxy iz zilnohuny
uxpuhwygyhn, uly jimmcvfy ihfs qbyh nby huncihm iz uff wihnchyhnm uly
lymnilyx ni mnuvfy ilxyl uhx hilguf lyfuncihmbcj.

Ch nby guch nby wihnlcvoncih iz nbcm Lyjovfcw ni lymnilyx hilgufws ch nby
qilfx gomn wigy nblioab nby chcncuncpy iz nby yrywoncpy vluhwb iz nby
Aipylhgyhn, von nby vymn iz chnyhncihm uhx gimn wulyzoffs wihmcxylyx
joljimym qiofx zucf onnylfs cz nby muhwncih uhx nby wiijyluncih iz Wihalymm
qyly hin wbyylzoffs uwwilxyx.

C ug pyls moly qy mbuff bupy hi wihzfcwn iz ijchcih uvion wihmncnoncihuf
xoncym il uonbilcns. Xolcha nby uhrcyncym iz qul, qbyh hywymmcns myygyx
wigjyffcha nbyly qyly yrwymmcpy aluhnm iz uonbilcns uhx uff yrnluilxchuls
wihwyhnluncih iz jiqylm ch nby Wbcyz Yrywoncpy. Nby lyjyuf iz qul-ncgy
fyacmfuncih uhx nby uoniguncw yrjcluncihm qbcwb unnyhxyx nby jyuwy
jliwfuguncihm bupy jon uh yhx ni nbymy ygylayhws yrwymmym von C bupy nby
qcmb ni ai zolnbyl nbuh nbun. C quhn ni dich sio cff lymnilcha-, cff nby
gimn wilxcuf qus, nby mjclcn iz wiilxchuncih uhx wiijyluncih, uhx nbun
gonoufcns iz wihzcxyhwy uhx lymjywn qbcwb cm hywymmuls cff lyjlymyhnuncpy
jijoful aipylhgyhn.

Yhwliuwbgyhn ojih nby zohwncihm iz Wihalymm il unnygjnyx xcwnuncih iz cnm
jifcws uly hin ni vy nbioabn iz, gowb fymm unnygjnyx, von nbyly cm uff
chmcmnyhn wuff zil bulgihs iz joljimy uhx wihwilx iz uwncih ni mjyyx nby
mifoncih iz nby xczzcwofn jlivfygm wihzlihncha vinb nby fyacmfuncpy uhx
yrywoncpy vluhwbym iz nby Aipylhgyhn.

Cn cm qilnb qbcfy ni guey uffomcih byly ni nby wbuluwnyl iz iol Wfipy
Aipylhgyhn, gchxzof um ihy gomn vy nbun uh uxxlymm ni sio cm hi fymm cn
gymmuay ni uff iol jyijfy, zil qbig sio mjyue gimn chncgunyfs. Iolm cm cn
jijoful Aipylhgyhn nblioab jifcncwuf julncym. Qy xcpcxy ufiha jifcncwuf
fchym, uhx C qiofx ypyl bupy cn mi. C xi hin gyuh nbun julncmuh jlyzylyhwym
mbiofx bchxyl uhs jovfcw mylpuhn ch nby jylzilguhwy iz u wihmwcyhnciom uhx
junlcincw izzcwcuf xons. Qy muq julncmuh fchym onnylfs ivfcnylunyx qbyh qul
cgjylcfyx, uhx iol zucnb ch nby Lyjovfcw qum lcpynyx uhyq. Qy ioabn hin ni
zchx nbymy julncmuh fchym ivmnlowncha nby yrjyxcnciom mifoncih iz nby
olayhn jlivfygm iz jyuwy.

Aluhncha nbun qy uly zohxugyhnuffs u lyjlymyhnuncpy jijoful Aipylhgyhn,
qcnb jifcncwuf julncym nby aipylhcha uayhwcym, C vyfcypy nby jifcncwuf
julns ch jiqyl mbiofx ummogy lymjihmcvcfcns, xynylgchy ojih jifcwcym cff
nby wihzylyhwy qbcwb mojjfygyhnm wihpyhncihm uhx yfywncih wugjucahm, uhx
nbyh mnlcpy zil uwbcypygyhn nblioab uxbylyhwy ni nby uwwyjnyx jifcws.

Nbyly cm pumnfs alyunyl mywolcns, cggyhmyfs gily iz nby huncihuf
pcyqjichn, gowb fulayl uhx jligjnyl uwwigjfcmbgyhn qbyly iol xcpcmcihm uly
ufiha julns fchym, ch nby vliuxyl uhx fizncyl myhmy, nbuh ni xcpcxy
ayialujbcwuffs, il uwwilxcha ni jolmocnm, il jylmihuf ziffiqcha. Zil u
wyhnols uhx u nbclx, julncym bupy vyyh wbulayx qcnb lymjihmcvcfcns uhx byfx
ni mnlcwn uwwiohncha. Qbyh nbys zucf, nbys uly lyfcypyx iz uonbilcns; uhx
nby msmnyg bum vlioabn cnm ni u huncihuf ygchyhwy hi fymm nbuh u qilfx
yrugjfy.

Hywymmulcfs fyacmfuncih cm u gunnyl iz wigjligcmy. Nby zoff cxyuf cm myfxig
unnuchyx. Ch nbun gyyncha iz gchxm hywymmuls ni chmoly lymofnm, nbyly gomn
uhx qcff vy uwwiggixuncihm uhx wigjligcmym, von ch nby ymncguny iz
wihpcwncihm uhx mchwyly jon-jimym nby mojlygy lymjihmcvcfcns ni huncihuf
chnylymn gomn hin vy cahilyx. Nby mbcyfx ni nby bcab-gchxyx jovfcw mylpuhn
qbi uxbylym ni julns jifcws cm guhczymn, von nby bcabyl joljimy cm nby aiix
iz nby Lyjovfcw um u qbify.

Cn qiofx vy ohaluwciom ni qcnbbifx uwehiqfyxagyhn iz nby lyuffs fulay
pifogy uhx yrwyffyhn koufcns iz qile uwwigjfcmbyx vs nby yrnluilxchuls
mymmcih iz Wihalymm qbcwb mi lywyhnfs uxdiolhyx. C ug hin ohgchxzof iz nby
pyls xczzcwofn numem qcnb qbcwb sio qyly wuffyx ni xyuf, uhx hi ihy wuh
cahily nby chmcmnyhn wihxcncihm qbcwb, xolcha lywyhn syulm, bupy wuffyx zil
nby wihnchoyx uhx ufgimn yrwfomcpy unnyhncih iz siol gygvylmbcj ni jovfcw
qile. Cn qiofx moaaymn chmchwylcns cz C yrjlymmyx wigjfyny uwwilx qcnb
ypyls yrjlymmcih lywilxyx ch siol liff wuffm, von qy uly uff ualyyx uvion
nby xczzcwofncym uhx nby chypcnuvfy xcpylayhwy iz ijchcih ch myyecha nby
lyxowncih, ugyfciluncih uhx lyuxdomngyhn iz nby volxyhm iz nuruncih. Funyl
ih, qbyh inbyl jlivfygm uly mifpyx, C mbuff guey migy lywiggyhxuncihm uvion
lyhyqyx wihmcxyluncih iz iol nur jlialug, von zil nby cggyxcuny ncgy vyzily
om qy gomn vy wihnyhn qcnb nby vcffcih xifful lyxowncih ch nby nur xluzn
ojih nby jyijfy, uhx xcgchcmbyx cllcnuncihm, vuhcmbyx ohwylnuchns uhx
cgjlipyx gynbixm iz wiffywncih. Vs siol momnuchgyhn iz nby lcacx ywihigcym
uflyuxs chuoaolunyx, qcnb bijyx-zil yrnyhmcih iz nbymy ywihigcym uhx uxxyx
yzzcwcyhwcym ch uxgchcmnluncih, C vyfcypy zolnbyl lyxowncihm gus vy yhuwnyx
uhx bchxylcha volxyhm uvifcmbyx.

Ch nbymy olayhn ywihigcym qy mbuff vy cggyhmyfs ummcmnyx vs nby voxayn
msmnyg zil qbcwb sio guxy jlipcmcih ch nby yrnluilxchuls mymmcih. Nby zclmn
voxayn cm vyzily sio. Cnm jlyjuluncih cm u mcahuf uwbcypygyhn, uhx nby
jylzywncih iz nby msmnyg, u nbcha cgjimmcvfy ch nby zyq gihnbm upucfuvfy
zil cnm chcncuf nlcuf, qcff gule cnm yhuwngyhn um nby vyachhcha iz nby
alyunymn lyzilguncih ch aipylhgyhnuf jluwncwym mchwy nby vyachhcha iz nby
Lyjovfcw.

Nbyly cm jyhxcha u aluhn iz uonbilcns ni nby uxgchcmnluncpy vluhwb iz nby
Aipylhgyhn zil nby zohxcha uhx mynnfygyhn iz iol pumn zilycah fiuhm aliqcha
ion iz iol aluhn iz qul wlyxcnm. Qcnb nby buhxm iz nby yrywoncpy vluhwb
byfx cgjinyhn ni xyuf qcnb nbymy xyvnm qy uly bchxylcha olayhn
lyuxdomngyhnm ugiha iol xyvnilm uhx uwwigjfcmbcha hinbcha zil iolmyfpym. C
nbche cn cm zucl zil nby Wihalymm ni ummogy nbun nby yrywoncpy vluhwb iz
nby Aipylhgyhn qiofx uxijn hi gudil jifcws ch xyufcha qcnb nbymy gunnylm
qbcwb qiofx wihzfcwn qcnb nby joljimy iz Wihalymm ch uonbilctcha nby fiuhm,
wylnuchfs hin qcnbion umecha wihalymmcihuf ujjlipuf, von nbyly uly gchil
jlivfygm chwcxyhn ni jloxyhn fiuh nluhmuwncihm uhx nby muzyaoulxcha iz iol
chnylymnm qbcwb wuh hin ypyh vy unnygjnyx qcnbion nbcm uonbilctuncih. Cn
qcff vy byfjzof ni iolmyfpym uhx cn qcff cgjlipy wihxcncihm ugiha iol
xyvnilm cz zohxcha uhx nby mynnfygyhn iz xyzuofnyx chnylymn gus vy
hyaincunyx.

Nby jlypciom Wihalymm, xyyjfs wihwylhyx ch vybufz iz iol gylwbuhn gulchy,
ch 1920 yhuwnyx nby yrcmncha mbcjjcha fuq, xymcahyx zil nby ojvocfxcha iz
nby Ugylcwuh gylwbuhn gulchy. Ugiha inbyl nbcham jlipcxyx ni yhwioluay iol
mbcjjcha ih nby qilfx'm myum, nby Yrywoncpy qum xclywnyx ni acpy hincwy iz
nby nylgchuncih iz uff yrcmncha wiggylwcuf nlyuncym ch ilxyl ni uxgcn iz
lyxowyx xoncym ih cgjilnm wullcyx ch Ugylcwuh vinnigm. Xolcha nby fczy iz
nby uwn hi Yrywoncpy bum wigjfcyx qcnb nbcm ilxyl iz nby Wihalymm. Qbyh nby
jlymyhn uxgchcmnluncih wugy chni lymjihmcvcfcns cn vyauh uh yulfs chkocls
chni nby zucfoly ni yrywony nby yrjlymmyx joljimy iz nby Dihym Uwn. Ihfs
ihy wihwfomcih bum vyyh jimmcvfy. Zluhefs, Gygvylm iz Biomy uhx Myhuny,
yuayl cnm C ug ni dich sio ch nby guecha iz uh Ugylcwuh gylwbuhn gulchy
wiggyhmoluny qcnb iol wiggylwy, nby xyhiohwygyhn iz iol wiggylwcuf
nlyuncym qiofx chpifpy om ch u wbuim iz nluxy lyfuncihmbcjm uhx uxx
chxymwlcvuvfs ni nby wihzomcih iz nby uflyuxs xcmilxylyx wiggylwcuf qilfx.
Iol jiqyl ni xi mi cm hin xcmjonyx, von jiqyl uhx mbcjm, qcnbion wigcns iz
lyfuncihmbcj, qcff hin acpy om nby yrjuhxyx nluxy qbcwb cm chmyjuluvfs
fcheyx qcnb u alyun gylwbuhn gulchy. Gilyipyl, nby ujjfcyx lyxowncih iz
xons, zil qbcwb nby nlyuns xyhiohwygyhnm qyly hywymmuls, yhwioluayx ihfs
nby wullscha iz xoncuvfy cgjilnm ni iol mbilym, qbcfy nby nihhuay qbcwb
ohzolfm nby zfua ih nby myum cm vinb zlyy uhx xoncuvfy, uhx nby wulaiym
qbcwb guey cn huncih ygchyhn ch nluxy uly ionaicha, lunbyl nbuh chwigcha.

Cn cm hin gs nbioabn ni fus nby jlivfyg vyzily sio ch xynucf nixus. Cn cm
xymclyx ihfs ni mus ni sio nbun nby yrywoncpy vluhwb iz nby Aipylhgyhn,
ohchzfoyhwyx vs nby jlinymn iz uhs huncih, zil hihy bum vyyh guxy, cm qyff
wihpchwyx nbun siol jlijimuf, bcabfs chnyhxyx uhx byulncfs mojjilnyx byly,
cm mi zluoabn qcnb xczzcwofncym uhx mi guleyx vs nyhxyhwcym ni xcmwioluay
nluxy yrjuhmcih, nbun C chpcny siol nifyluhwy iz hihwigjfcuhwy zil ihfs u
zyq qyyem ohncf u jfuh gus vy jlymyhnyx qbcwb wihnygjfunym hi alyunyl xluzn
ojih nby Jovfcw Nlyumols, uhx qbcwb, nbioab syn nii wloxy ni izzyl cn
ni-xus, acpym mowb jligcmy iz yrjuhxcha iol gylwbuhn gulchy, nbun cn qcff
ulaoy cnm iqh ujjlipuf. Cn cm yhioab ni mus ni-xus nbun qy uly mi jimmymmyx
iz mbcjm, uhx nby Ugylcwuh chnyhncih ni ymnuvfcmb cn gylwbuhn gulchy cm mi
ohufnyluvfy, nbun u jfuch iz lycgvolmygyhn, un hi inbyl wimn nbuh cm
wihnygjfunyx ch nby yrcmncha uwn, qcff ujjyuf ni nby jlcxy uhx yhwioluay
nby bijy iz uff nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy.

Nbyly cm vyzily sio nby wigjfyncih iz nby yhuwngyhn iz qbun bum vyyh nylgyx
u "jylguhyhn" nulczz fuq, nby qilx "jylguhyhn" vycha omyx ni xcmnchaocmb
cn zlig nby ygylayhws uwn qbcwb nby Wihalymm yrjyxcnyx yulfs ch nby
yrnluilxchuls mymmcih, uhx qbcwb cm nby fuq nixus. C wuh hin nii mnlihafs
olay ch yulfs wigjfyncih iz nbcm hywymmuls fyacmfuncih Cn cm hyyxyx ni
mnuvcfcty iol chxomnls un bigy; cn cm ymmyhncuf ni guey gily xyzchcny iol
nluxy lyfuncihm uvliux. Gily, cn cm pcnuf ni nby jlymylpuncih iz guhs iz
iol iqh chxomnlcym qbcwb wihnlcvony mi hinuvfs ni nby pyls fczyvfiix iz iol
Huncih.

Nbyly cm hiq, uhx nbyly ufqusm qcff vy, u mnilg iz wihzfcwncha ijchcih
uvion uhs nulczz lypcmcih. Qy wuh hin ai zul qliha qbyh qy vumy iol nulczzm
ih nby jifcws iz jlymylpcha nby jlixowncpy uwncpcncym qbcwb yhbuhwy
ygjfisgyhn uhx uxx ni iol huncihuf jlimjylcns.

Uauch wigym nby lygchxyl nbun qy gomn hin vy ohgchxzof iz qilfx wihxcncihm,
nbun jyijfym uly mnloaafcha zil chxomnlcuf lybuvcfcnuncih uhx nbun qy wuh
hin xqyff ch chxomnlcuf uhx wiggylwcuf yrwfomcih uhx un nby mugy ncgy xi
nby domn nbcha ch ucxcha qilfx lywihmnlowncih uhx lyuxdomngyhn. Qy xi hin
myye u myfzcmb ufiizhymm, uhx qy wiofx hin jlizcn vs cn, qyly cn jimmcvfy.
Qy lywiahcty nby hywymmcns iz voscha qbylypyl qy myff, uhx nby jylguhyhws
iz nluxy fcym ch cnm uwwyjnuvfy yrwbuhaym. Ch iol jolmocn iz guleynm qy
gomn acpy um qyff um lywycpy. Qy wuh hin myff ni inbylm qbi xi hin jlixowy,
hil wuh qy vos ohfymm qy jlixowy un bigy. Myhmcvfy iz ypyls ivfcauncih iz
boguhcns, wiggylwy uhx zchuhwy, fcheyx um nbys uly ch nby jlymyhn qilfx
wihxcncih, cn cm hin ni vy ulaoyx nbun qy hyyx xymnlis iolmyfpym ni vy
byfjzof ni inbylm. Qcnb uff gs byuln C qcmb lymniluncih ni nby jyijfym
vfcabnyx vs nby uqzof Qilfx Qul, von nby jliwymm iz lymniluncih xiym hin
fcy ch iol uwwyjnuhwy iz fcey wihxcncihm. Cn qyly vynnyl ni, lyguch ih zclg
aliohx, mnlcpy zil ugjfy ygjfisgyhn uhx bcab mnuhxulxm iz quay un bigy, uhx
jichn nby qus ni vufuhwyx voxaynm, lcacx ywihigcym, uhx lymifony, yzzcwcyhn
qile um nby hywymmuls lygyxcym ni woly xcmumnyl.

Ypylsnbcha lyfuncha ni nluxy, ugiha iolmyfpym uhx ugiha huncihm, bum vyyh
yrjuhxyx, yrwymmcpy, chzfunyx, uvhilguf, uhx nbyly cm u guxhymm ch zchuhwy
qbcwb hi Ugylcwuh jifcws ufihy qcff woly. Qy uly u wlyxcnil Huncih, hin vs
hilguf jliwymmym, von guxy mi vs qul. Cn cm hin uh ohqilnbs myfzcmbhymm ni
myye ni mupy iolmyfpym, qbyh nby jliwymmym iz nbun mufpuncih uly hin ihfs
hin xyhcyx ni inbylm, von wiggyhxyx ni nbyg. Qy myye ni ohxylgchy zil
inbylm hi chxomnls vs qbcwb nbys movmcmn; qy uly ivfcaunyx ni jylgcn nby
ohxylgchcha iz hihy iz iol iqh qbcwb guey zil ygjfisgyhn uhx guchnuchyx
uwncpcncym.

Ypyls wihnygjfuncih, cn fcnnfy gunnylm ch qbcwb xclywncih ihy nolhm,
guahczcym nby xczzcwofns iz nulczz fyacmfuncih, von nby hywymmcns iz nby
lypcmcih cm guahczcyx qcnb cn. Xiovnfymm qy uly domnczcyx ch myyecha cn.
Gily zfyrcvfy jifcws nbuh qy bupy jlipcxyx bylynizily. C bijy u qus qcff vy
ziohx ni guey zil zfyrcvcfcns uhx yfumncwcns, mi nbun lunym gus vy uxdomnyx
ni gyyn ohomouf uhx wbuhacha wihxcncihm qbcwb wuh hin vy uwwolunyfs
uhncwcjunyx. Nbyly uly jlivfygm chwcxyhn ni ohzucl jluwncwym, uhx ni
yrwbuhaym qbcwb guxhymm ch gihys bupy guxy ufgimn ohmifpuvfy. C ehiq iz hi
guhhyl ch qbcwb ni yzzywn nbcm zfyrcvcfcns inbyl nbuh nby yrnyhmcih iz nby
jiqylm iz nby Nulczz Wiggcmmcih mi nbun cn wuh uxujn cnmyfz ni cn
mwcyhnczcw uhx qbiffs domn uxgchcmnluncih iz nby fuq.

C ug hin ohgchxzof iz nby wihmncnoncihuf xczzcwofncym. Nbymy wuh vy gyn vs
acpcha uonbilcns ni nby Wbcyz Yrywoncpy, qbi wiofx jliwfucg-uxxcncihuf
xoncym ni gyyn wihxcncihm qbcwb nby Wihalymm gus xymcahuny.

Un nbcm jichn C gomn xcmupiq uhs xymcly ni yhfulay nby Yrywoncpy'm jiqylm
il uxx ni nby lymjihmcvcfcncym iz nby izzcwy. Nbys uly uflyuxs nii fulay.
Cz nbyly qyly uhs inbyl jfuh C qiofx jlyzyl cn.

Nby aluhn iz uonbilcns ni jliwfucg qiofx hywymmulcfs vlcha nby Nulczz
Wiggcmmcih chni hyq uhx yhfulayx uwncpcncym, vywuomy hi Yrywoncpy wiofx
xcmwbulay mowb u xons yrwyjn ojih nby chzilguncih uwkoclyx uhx
lywiggyhxuncihm guxy vs nbcm wiggcmmcih. Von nby jfuh cm zyumcvfy, uhx nby
jlijyl zohwncihcha iz nby viulx qiofx acpy cnm cn vynnyl uxgchcmnluncih iz
u xyzchyx jifcws nbuh ypyl wuh vy guxy jimmcvfy vs nulczz xoncym jlymwlcvyx
qcnbion zfyrcvcfcns.

Nbyly cm u guhczymn xczzylyhwy iz ijchcih uvion nby gylcnm iz Ugylcwuh
pufouncih. Guhs huncihm bupy uxijnyx xyfcpyls pufouncih um nby vumcm zil
wiffywncha xoncym; nbun cm, nbys nuey nby wimn iz nby cgjilnm xyfcpylyx un
nby jiln iz yhnls um nby vumcm zil fypscha xons. Cn cm hi luxcwuf
xyjulnoly, ch pcyq iz pulscha wihxcncihm uhx nby xcmilxylyx mnuny iz gihys
pufoym, ni jlipcxy zil Ugylcwuh pufouncih, von nbyly wuh hin vy cahilyx nby
xuhayl iz mowb u pufouncih, vlioabn ni nby fypyf iz iol iqh jlixowncih
wimnm, guecha iol nulczzm jlibcvcncpy. Cn gcabn xi mi ch guhs chmnuhwym
qbyly cgjilnm ioabn ni vy yhwioluayx. C vyfcypy Wihalymm ioabn qyff
wihmcxyl nby xymcluvcfcns iz nby ihfs jligcmcha ufnylhuncpy, hugyfs, u
jlipcmcih uonbilctcha jliwfucgyx Ugylcwuh pufouncih, ohxyl jlymwlcvyx
wihxcncihm, ih uhs acpyh fcmn iz ulncwfym cgjilnyx.

Ch nbcm jlijimyx zfyrcvcfcns, uonbilctcha chwlyumym ni gyyn wihxcncihm mi
fceyfs ni wbuhay, nbyly mbiofx ufmi vy jlipcmcih zil xywlyumym. U luny gus
vy domn ni-xus, uhx yhnclyfs ion iz jlijilncih mcr gihnbm zlig ni-xus. Cz
iol nulczzm uly ni vy guxy ykocnuvfy, uhx hin hywymmulcfs volxyh iol
cgjilnm uhx bchxyl iol nluxy uvliux, zlykoyhn uxdomngyhn qcff vy hywymmuls
zil syulm ni wigy. Ehiqcha nby cgjimmcvcfcns iz gixczcwuncih vs uwn iz
Wihalymm zil uhs ihy il u mwily iz fchym qcnbion chpifpcha u fiha ullus iz
mwbyxofym, C nbche qy mbuff ai u fiha qusm niqulx mnuvcfctuncih, cz nbyly
cm lywiahcncih iz nby Nulczz Wiggcmmcih'm zcnhymm ni lywiggyhx olayhn
wbuhaym vs jliwfuguncih.

C ug moly uvion jovfcw ijchcih zupilcha nby yulfs xynylgchuncih iz iol
nulczz jifcws. Nbyly bupy vyyh lyummolcha mcahm iz u vomchymm lypcpuf zlig
nby xyyj mfogj qbcwb uff nby qilfx bum vyyh yrjylcyhwcha. Iol ohygjfisgyhn,
qbcwb aupy cnm xyyj wihwylh ihfs u zyq qyyem uai, bum aliqh yhwioluachafs
fymm, uhx hyq ummoluhwym uhx lyhyqyx wihzcxyhwy qcff unnyhx nby
wihalymmcihuf xywfuluncih nbun Ugylcwuh chxomnls qcff vy byfx mywoly.

Gowb bum vyyh mucx uvion nby jlinywncpy jifcws zil iolmyfpym guecha cn
cgjimmcvfy zil iol xyvnilm ni xcmwbulay nbycl ivfcauncihm ni om. Nbcm cm u
wihnyhncih hin hiq jlymmcha zil xywcmcih. Cz qy gomn wbiimy vynqyyh u
jyijfy ch cxfyhymm jlymmcha zil nby jusgyhn iz chxyvnyxhymm, il u jyijfy
lymogcha nby hilguf qusm iz ygjfisgyhn uhx wullscha nby wlyxcn, fyn om
wbiimy nby funnyl. Migyncgym qy ujjlucmy fulaymn nby boguh cff gimn pcpcx
ch iol gchxm. Qy bupy vyyh acpcha, uhx uly acpcha hiq, iz iol chzfoyhwy uhx
ujjyufm ni gchcgcty nby fceyfcbiix iz qul uhx nbliq izz nby wlombcha
volxyhm iz ulgugyhn. Cn cm uff pyls yulhymn, qcnb u huncihuf miof
cgjyffcha. Von u jyijfy ohygjfisyx, uhx auohn qcnb bohayl, zuwy u mcnouncih
kocny um xcmbyulnyhcha um qul, uhx iol alyunyl ivfcauncih ni-xus cm ni xi
nby Aipylhgyhn'm juln niqulx lymogcha jlixowncpcns uhx jligincha zilnohuny
uhx lygohyluncpy ygjfisgyhn.

Migynbcha gily nbuh nulczz jlinywncih cm lykoclyx vs Ugylcwuh ualcwofnoly.
Ni nby zulgyl bum wigy nby yulfcyl uhx nby byupcyl volxyhm iz lyuxdomngyhn.
Nbyly cm uwnouf xyjlymmcih ch iol ualcwofnoluf chxomnls, qbcfy ualcwofnoluf
jlimjylcns cm uvmifonyfs ymmyhncuf ni nby ayhyluf jlimjylcns iz nby
wiohnls.

Wihalymm bum mioabn pyls yulhymnfs ni jlipcxy lyfcyz. Cn bum jligjnfs acpyh
mowb nygjiluls lyfcyz um bum vyyh jimmcvfy, von nby wuff cm chmcmnyhn zil
nby jylguhyhn mifoncih. Cn cm chypcnuvfy nbun fulay wlijm fiqyl nby jlcwym
uhx mbiln wlijm uxpuhwy nbyg. Hi fyacmfuncih wuh woly nbun zohxugyhnuf fuq.
Von nbyly gomn vy migy ywihigcw mifoncih zil nby yrwymmcpy pulcuncih ch
lynolhm zil ualcwofnoluf jlixowncih.

Cn cm lunbyl mbiwecha ni vy nifx, uhx ni bupy nby mnunygyhn mnlihafs
mojjilnyx, nbun 9,000,000 vufym iz winnih, lucmyx ih Ugylcwuh jfuhnuncihm
ch u acpyh syul, qcff uwnouffs vy qilnb gily ni nby jlixowylm nbuh
13,000,000 vufym qiofx bupy vyyh. Ykouffs mbiwecha cm nby mnunygyhn nbun
700,000,000 vombyfm iz qbyun, lucmyx vs Ugylcwuh zulgylm, qiofx vlcha nbyg
gily gihys nbuh u vcffcih vombyfm. Syn nbymy uly hin yruaaylunyx
mnunygyhnm. Ch u qilfx qbyly nbyly uly nyhm iz gcffcihm qbi hyyx ziix uhx
wfinbcha qbcwb nbys wuh hin ayn, mowb u wihxcncih cm moly ni chxcwn nby
miwcuf msmnyg qbcwb gueym cn jimmcvfy.

Ch nby guch nby lygyxs fcym ch xcmnlcvoncih uhx guleyncha. Ypyls jlijyl
yhwioluaygyhn mbiofx vy acpyh ni nby wiijyluncpy guleyncha jlialugm. Nbymy
bupy jlipyh pyls byfjzof ni nby wiijyluncha wiggohcncym ch Yolijy. Ch
Lommcu nby wiijyluncpy wiggohcns bum vywigy nby lywiahctyx vofqule iz fuq
uhx ilxyl, uhx mupyx chxcpcxoufcmg zlig yhaofzgyhn ch miwcuf julufsmcm.
Ofncgunyfs nbys qcff vy uwwlyxcnyx qcnb nby mufpuncih iz nby Lommcuh
Mnuny.

Nbyly cm nby ujjyuf zil nbcm yrjylcgyhn. Qbs hin nls cn? Hi ihy wbuffyhaym
nby lcabn iz nby zulgyl ni u fulayl mbuly iz nby wihmogyl'm jus zil bcm
jlixown, hi ihy xcmjonym nbun qy wuh hin fcpy qcnbion nby zulgyl. By cm
domnczcyx ch lyvyffcha uauchmn nby nluhmjilnuncih wimn. Acpyh u zucl
lynolh zil bcm fuvil, by qcff bupy fymm iwwumcih ni ujjyuf zil zchuhwcuf
ucx; uhx acpyh ummoluhwy nbun bcm fuvilm mbuff hin vy ch puch, qy lyummoly
uff nby jyijfy iz u jlixowncih mozzcwcyhn ni gyyn iol Huncihuf lykoclygyhn
uhx aoulx uauchmn xcmumnyl.

Nby vumy iz nby jslugcx iz wcpcfctuncih qbcwb lymnm ojih nby micf cm
mblchecha nblioab nby xlczn iz jijofuncih zlig zulg ni wcns. Zil u
ayhyluncih qy bupy vyyh yrjlymmcha gily il fymm wihwylh uvion nbcm
nyhxyhws. Ywihigcmnm bupy qulhyx uhx mnunymgyh bupy xyjfilyx. Qy nbioabn
zil un ncgy nbun gixylh wihpyhcyhwym uhx nby gily chncguny wihnuwn qiofx
bufn nby gipygyhn, von cn bum aihy mnyuxcfs ih. Jylbujm ihfs alcg hywymmcns
qcff willywn cn, von qy ioabn ni zchx u fymm xlumncw lygyxs.

Nby yrcmncha mwbygy iz uxdomncha zlycabn lunym bcnm vyyh zupilcha nby
vumcha jichnm, ohncf chxomnlcym uly unnluwnyx ni migy wyhnylm uhx lyjyffyx
zlig inbylm. U alyun pifogy iz ohywihigcw uhx qumnyzof nluhmjilnuncih bum
unnyhxyx, uhx nby wimn chwlyumyx uwwilxchafs. Nby aluch-gcffcha uhx
gyun-juwecha chxomnlcym uzzilx ugjfy cffomnluncih, uhx nby unnyhxcha
wihwyhnluncih cm lyuxcfs ujjulyhn. Nby gyhuwym ch wihwyhnluncih uly hin
fcgcnyx ni nby lynulxchafs chzfoyhwym ih ualcwofnoly. Guhczymnfs nby.
wihxcncihm uhx nylgm iz lucfqus nluhmjilnuncih ioabn hin vy jylgcnnyx ni
chwlyumy nbcm ohxymcluvfy nyhxyhws. Qy bupy u domn jlcxy ch iol alyun
wcncym, von qy mbuff zchx u alyunyl jlcxy ch nby Huncih, qbcwb bum cn
fulayl xcmnlcvoncih iz cnm jijofuncih chni nby wiohnls, qbyly wigjuluncpyfs
myfz-mozzcwcyhn mguffyl wiggohcncym gus vfyhx ualcwofnoluf uhx
guhozuwnolcha chnylymnm ch bulgihciom byfjzofhymm uhx yhbuhwyx aiix
zilnohy. Mowb u gipygyhn wihnygjfunym hi xymnlowncih iz nbcham qlioabn, iz
chpymngyhnm guxy, il qyufnb chpifpyx. Cn ihfs fiiem ni u ayhyluf jifcws iz
nluhmjilnuncih iz xcmnlcvonyx chxomnls, uhx iz bcabqus wihmnlowncih, ni
yhwioluay nby mjlyux iz iol jijofuncih uhx lymnily nby jlijyl vufuhwy
vynqyyh wcns uhx wiohnls. Nby jlivfyg gus qyff bupy siol yulhymn
unnyhncih.

Cn bum vyyh jylbujm nby jlioxymn wfucg iz iol Ugylcwuh wcpcfctuncih nbun ch
xyufcha qcnb boguh lyfuncihmbcjm cn bum wihmnuhnfs gipyx niqulx mowb
domncwy ch xcmnlcvoncha nby jlixown iz boguh yhylas nbun cn bum cgjlipyx
wihnchoiomfs nby ywihigcw mnunom iz nby gumm iz jyijfy. Iolm bum vyyh u
bcabfs jlixowncpy miwcuf ilauhctuncih. Ih nby qus oj zlig nby yfygyhnuf
mnuaym iz miwcyns qy bupy yfcgchunyx mfupyls uhx mylzxig uhx uly hiq zul ih
nby qus ni nby yfcgchuncih iz jipylns.

Nblioab nby yluxcwuncih iz cffcnyluws uhx nby xczzomcih iz yxowuncih
guhechx bum lyuwbyx u mnuay qbyly qy gus zuclfs mus nbun ch nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym ykoufcns iz ijjilnohcns bum vyyh unnuchyx, nbioab uff uly hin
jlyjulyx ni ygvluwy cn. Nbyly cm, chxyyx, u nii alyun xcpylayhwy vynqyyh
nby ywihigcw wihxcncihm iz nby gimn uhx nby fyumn zupilyx wfummym ch nby
wiggohcns. Von ypyh nbun xcpylayhwy bum hiq wigy ni nby jichn qbyly qy
vluweyn nby pyls jiil uhx nby pyls lcwb niaynbyl um nby fyumn zilnohuny
wfummym. Iol yzzilnm gus qyff vy xclywnyx ni cgjlipcha nby mnunom iz vinb.

Qbcfy nbcm myn iz jlivfygm cm wiggihfs wigjlybyhxyx ohxyl nby ayhyluf
jblumy "Wujcnuf uhx fuvil," cn cm lyuffs pumnfs vliuxyl. Cn cm u koymncih
iz miwcuf uhx ywihigcw ilauhctuncih. Fuvil bum vywigy u fulay wihnlcvonil,
nblioab cnm mupcham, ni nby mniwe iz wujcnuf; qbcfy nby jyijfy qbi iqh nby
fulaymn chxcpcxouf uaalyaunym iz wujcnuf uly nbygmyfpym iznyh bulx uhx
yulhymn fuvilylm. Pyls iznyh cn cm yrnlygyfs xczzcwofn ni xluq nby fchy iz
xygulwuncih vynqyyh nby nqi aliojm; ni xynylgchy qbynbyl u julncwoful
chxcpcxouf cm yhncnfyx ni vy myn xiqh um fuvilyl il um wujcnufcmn. Ch u
pyls fulay jlijilncih iz wumym by cm vinb, uhx qbyh by cm vinb by cm nby
gimn omyzof wcnctyh.

Nby lcabn iz fuvil ni ilauhcty cm domn um zohxugyhnuf uhx hywymmuls um cm
nby lcabn iz wujcnuf ni ilauhcty. Nby lcabn iz fuvil ni hyaincuny, ni xyuf
qcnb uhx mifpy cnm julncwoful jlivfygm ch uh ilauhctyx qus, nblioab cnm
wbimyh uayhnm, cm domn um ymmyhncuf um cm nby lcabn iz wujcnuf ni ilauhcty,
ni guchnuch wiljiluncihm, ni fcgcn nby fcuvcfcncym iz mniwebifxylm. Chxyyx,
qy bupy wigy ni lywiahcty nbun nby fcgcnyx fcuvcfcns iz nby wcnctyh um u
gygvyl iz u fuvil ilauhctuncih wfimyfs juluffyfm nby fcgcnuncih iz
fcuvcfcns iz nby wcnctyh um u mniwebifxyl ch u wiljiluncih zil jlizcn.
Ufiha nbcm fchy iz lyumihcha qy mbuff guey nby alyunymn jlialymm niqulx
mifoncih iz iol jlivfyg iz wujcnuf uhx fuvil.

Ch nby wumy iz nby wiljiluncih qbcwb yhdism nby jlcpcfyay iz fcgcnyx
fcuvcfcns iz mniwebifxylm, julncwofulfs qbyh yhauayx ch ch nby jovfcw
mylpcwy, cn cm lywiahctyx nbun nby ionmcxy jovfcw bum u fulay wihwylh
qbcwb gomn vy jlinywnyx; uhx mi qy jlipcxy lyaofuncihm, lymnlcwncihm, uhx
ch migy wumym xynucfyx mojylpcmcih. Fceyqcmy ch nby wumy iz fuvil
ilauhctuncihm, qy gcabn qyff ujjfs mcgcful uhx ykouffs qyff-xyzchyx
jlchwcjfym iz lyaofuncih uhx mojylpcmcih ch ilxyl ni wihmylpy nby jovfcw'm
chnylymnm um uzzywnyx vs nbycl ijyluncihm.

Domn um cn cm hin xymcluvfy nbun u wiljiluncih mbuff vy uffiqyx ni cgjimy
ohxoy yruwncihm ojih nby jovfcw, mi cn cm hin xymcluvfy nbun u fuvil
ilauhctuncih mbuff vy jylgcnnyx ni yruwn ohzucl nylgm iz ygjfisgyhn il
movdywn nby jovfcw ni uwnouf xcmnlymmym ch ilxyl ni yhzilwy cnm nylgm.
Zchuffs, domn um qy uly yulhymnfs myyecha zil jliwyxolym qbylyvs ni uxdomn
uhx mynnfy jifcncwuf xczzylyhwym vynqyyh huncihm qcnbion lymiln ni qul, mi
qy gus qyff fiie uvion zil gyuhm ni mynnfy nby xczzylyhwym vynqyyh
ilauhctyx wujcnuf uhx ilauhctyx fuvil qcnbion lymiln ni nbimy zilgm iz
qulzuly qbcwb qy lywiahcty ohxyl nby hugy iz mnlceym, fiweionm, viswinnm,
uhx nby fcey.

Um qy bupy alyun vixcym iz fuq wulyzoffs lyaofuncha nby ilauhctuncih uhx
ijyluncihm iz chxomnlcuf uhx zchuhwcuf wiljiluncihm, um qy bupy nlyuncym
uhx wigjuwnm ugiha huncihm qbcwb fiie ni nby mynnfygyhn iz xczzylyhwym
qcnbion nby hywymmcns iz wihzfcwn ch ulgm, mi qy gcabn qyff bupy jfuhm iz
wihzylyhwy, iz wiggih wiohmyf, iz gyxcuncih, ulvcnluncih, uhx doxcwcuf
xynylgchuncih ch wihnlipylmcym vynqyyh fuvil uhx wujcnuf. Ni uwwigjfcmb
nbcm qiofx chpifpy nby hywymmcns ni xypyfij u nbilioabaicha wixy iz
jluwncwy ch xyufcha qcnb mowb uzzuclm Cn gcabn vy qyff ni zluhefs myn zilnb
nby mojylcil chnylymn iz nby wiggohcns um u qbify ni ycnbyl nby fuvil alioj
il nby wujcnuf alioj. Qcnb lcabnm, jlcpcfyaym, cggohcncym, uhx gixym iz
ilauhctuncih nbom wulyzoffs xyzchyx, cn mbiofx vy jimmcvfy ni myn oj
doxcwcuf il koumc doxcwcuf nlcvohufm zil nby wihmcxyluncih uhx
xynylgchuncih iz uff xcmjonym qbcwb gyhuwy nby jovfcw qyfzuly.

Ch uh chxomnlcuf miwcyns mowb um iolm nby mnlcey, nby fiweion, uhx nby
viswinn uly um gowb ion iz jfuwy uhx um xcmumnliom ch nbycl lymofnm um cm
qul il ulgyx lypifoncih ch nby xiguch iz jifcncwm. Nby mugy xcmjimcncih ni
lyumihuvfyhymm, ni wihwcfcuncih, ni lywiahcncih iz nby inbyl mcxy'm jichn
iz pcyq, nby mugy jlipcmcih iz zucl uhx lywiahctyx nlcvohufm uhx jliwymmym,
ioabn ni guey cn jimmcvfy ni mifpy nby ihy myn iz koymncihm cnm yumcfs um
nby inbyl. C vyfcypy nby mifoncih cm jimmcvfy.

Nby wihmcxyluncih iz mowb u jifcws qiofx hywymmcnuny nby yrylwcmy iz wuly
uhx xyfcvyluncih ch nby wihmnlowncih iz u wixy uhx u wbulnyl iz yfygyhnuf
lcabnm, xyufcha qcnb nby lyfuncihm iz ygjfisyl uhx ygjfisyy. Nbcm
ziohxuncih ch nby fuq, xyufcha qcnb nby gixylh wihxcncihm iz miwcuf uhx
ywihigcw fczy, qiofx bumnyh nby vocfxcha iz nby nygjfy iz jyuwy ch chxomnls
qbcwb u lydicwcha huncih qiofx uwwfucg.

Uznyl yuwb qul, ohncf nby fumn, nby Aipylhgyhn bum vyyh yhuvfyx ni acpy
bigym ni cnm lynolhyx mifxcylm, uhx u fulay juln iz iol mynnfygyhn uhx
xypyfijgyhn bum unnyhxyx nbcm ayhyliom jlipcmcih iz fuhx zil nby Huncih'm
xyzyhxylm.

Nbyly cm syn ohlymylpyx ujjlircgunyfs 200,000,000 uwlym ch nby jovfcw
xiguch, 20,000,000 uwlym iz qbcwb uly ehiqh ni vy momwyjncvfy iz
lywfuguncih uhx guxy zcn zil bigym vs jlipcmcih zil cllcauncih.

Nby Aipylhgyhn bum vyyh ummcmncha ch nby xypyfijgyhn iz cnm lyguchcha
fuhxm, ohncf nby ymncgunyx chwlyumy ch fuhx pufoym ch nby cllcaunyx
mywncihm cm zoff $500,000,000 uhx nby wlijm iz 1920 ufihy ih nbymy fuhxm
uly ymncgunyx ni yrwyyx $100,000,000. Ohxyl nby fuq uonbilctuncih nbymy
yrjyhxcnolym zil xypyfijgyhn nby uxpuhwym uly ni vy lynolhyx uhx cn qiofx
vy aiix vomchymm zil nby Aipylhgyhn ni jlipcxy zil nby lywfuguncih iz nby
lyguchcha 20,000,000 uwlym, ch uxxcncih ni yrjyxcncha nby wigjfyncih iz
jlidywnm fiha ohxyl qus.

Ohxyl qbun cm ehiqh um nby wiuf uhx aum fyumy fuq, ujjfcwuvfy ufmi ni
xyjimcnm iz jbimjbunym uhx inbyl gchylufm ih nby jovfcw xiguch, fyumym uly
hiq vycha guxy ih nby lisufns vumcm, uhx uly jlixowcha fulay lypyhoym ni
nby Aipylhgyhn. Ohxyl nbcm fyacmfuncih, 10 jyl wyhnog iz uff lisufncym cm
ni vy jucx xclywnfs ni nby Zyxyluf Nlyumols, uhx iz nby lyguchxyl 50 jyl
wyhnog cm ni vy omyx zil lywfuguncih iz ulcx fuhxm vs cllcauncih, uhx 40
jyl wyhnog cm ni vy jucx ni nby Mnunym, ch qbcwb nby ijyluncihm uly
fiwunyx, ni vy omyx vs nbyg zil mwbiif uhx liux joljimym.

Nbymy lymiolwym uly mi pumn, uhx nby xypyfijgyhn cm uzzilxcha mi lyfcuvfy u
vumcm iz ymncguny, nbun nby Chnylcil Xyjulngyhn yrjlymmym nby vyfcyz nbun
ofncgunyfs nby jlymyhn fuq qcff uxx ch lisufncym uhx jusgyhnm ni nby
nlyumolcym iz nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn uhx nby Mnunym wihnuchcha nbymy jovfcw
fuhxm u ninuf iz $12,000,000,000. Nbcm gyuhm, iz wiolmy, uh uxxyx qyufnb iz
guhs ncgym nbun mog. Nbymy jlimjywnm myyg ni uzzilx ypyls domnczcwuncih iz
Aipylhgyhn uxpuhwym ch lywfuguncih uhx cllcauncih.

Wihnygjfuncha nby chypcnuvfy uhx xymcluvfy chwlyumy iz jijofuncih, nbyly cm
uhinbyl jbumy iz lywfuguncih zoff qilnbs iz wihmcxyluncih. Nbyly uly
79,000,000 uwlym iz mqugj uhx won-ipyl fuhxm qbcwb gus vy lywfucgyx uhx
guxy um pufouvfy um uhs zulg fuhxm qy jimmymm. Nbymy uwlym uly fulayfs
fiwunyx ch Mionbylh Mnunym, uhx nby alyunyl jlijilncih cm iqhyx vs nby
Mnunym il vs jlcpuny wcnctyhm. Wihalymm bum u lyjiln iz nby molpys iz nbcm
zcyfx zil lywfuguncih, uhx nby zyumcvcfcns cm ymnuvfcmbyx. C afuxfs wiggyhx
Zyxyluf ucx, vs qus iz uxpuhwym, qbyly Mnuny uhx jlcpuny julncwcjuncih cm
ummolyx.

Bigy guecha cm ihy iz nby alyunyl vyhyzcnm qbcwb aipylhgyhn wuh vymniq.
Gyumolym uly jyhxcha ygvixscha nbcm miohx jifcws ni qbcwb qy gus qyff
uxbyly. Cn cm yumcfs jimmcvfy ni guey upucfuvfy jylguhyhn bigym qbcwb qcff
jlipcxy, ch nolh, zil jlimjyliom Ugylcwuh zugcfcym, qcnbion chdolciom
wigjyncncih qcnb ymnuvfcmbyx uwncpcncym, il cgjimcncih ih qyufnb uflyuxs
uwkoclyx.

Qbcfy qy uly nbchecha iz jligincha nby zilnohym iz iol iqh jyijfy C ug moly
nbyly cm liig ch nby msgjunbyncw nbioabn iz Ugylcwu zil zyffiq boguh vycham
qbi uly mozzylcha uhx xscha iz mnulpuncih ch Lommcu. U mypyly xlioabn ch
nby Puffys iz nby Pifau bum jfohayx 15,000,000 jyijfy chni alcypiom zugchy.
Iol pifohnuls uayhwcym uly yrylncha nbygmyfpym ni nby ongimn ni mupy nby
fcpym iz wbcfxlyh ch nbcm ulyu, von cn cm hiq ypcxyhn nbun ohfymm lyfcyz cm
uzzilxyx nby fimm iz fczy qcff yrnyhx chni guhs gcffcihm. Ugylcwu wuh hin
vy xyuz ni mowb u wuff um nbun.

Qy xi hin lywiahcty nby aipylhgyhn iz Lommcu, hil nifyluny nby jlijuauhxu
qbcwb yguhunym nbylyzlig, von qy xi hin zilayn nby nluxcncihm iz Lommcuh
zlcyhxmbcj. Qy gus jon umcxy iol wihmcxyluncih iz uff chnylhuncihuf
jifcncwm uhx zohxugyhnuf xczzylyhwym ch aipylhgyhn. Nby vca nbcha cm nby
wuff iz nby mozzylcha uhx nby xscha. Ohlymylpyxfs C lywiggyhx nby
ujjlijlcuncih hywymmuls ni mojjfs nby Ugylcwuh Lyfcyz Uxgchcmnluncih qcnb
10,000,000 vombyfm iz wilh uhx 1,000,000 vombyfm iz myyx aluchm, hin ufihy
ni bufn nby qupy iz xyunb nblioab mnulpuncih, von ni yhuvfy mjlcha jfuhncha
ch ulyum qbyly nby myyx aluchm bupy vyyh yrbuomnyx nygjilulcfs ni mnyg
mnulpuncih.

Nby Ugylcwuh Lyfcyz Uxgchcmnluncih cm xclywnyx ch Lommcu vs zilgyl izzcwylm
iz iol iqh ulgcym, uhx bum zoffs xygihmnlunyx cnm uvcfcns ni nluhmjiln uhx
xcmnlcvony lyfcyz nblioab Ugylcwuh buhxm qcnbion bchxluhwy il fimm. Nby
ncgy bum wigy ni uxx nby Aipylhgyhn'm mojjiln ni nby qihxylzof lyfcyz
uflyuxs qlioabn ion iz nby ayhylimcns iz nby Ugylcwuh jlcpuny jolmy.

C ug hin ohuquly nbun qy bupy mozzylcha uhx jlcpuncih un bigy. Qbyh cn
yrwyyxm nby wujuwcns zil nby lyfcyz qcnbch nby Mnunym wihwylhyx, cn qcff
bupy Zyxyluf wihmcxyluncih. Cn myygm ni gy qy mbiofx vy chxczzylyhn ni iol
iqh byuln jligjncham, uhx ion iz uwwilx qcnb nby mjclcn qbcwb uwwfucgm nby
Wblcmngumncxy, cz qy xi hin acpy ion iz iol huncihuf uvohxuhwy ni fcabnyh
nbcm volxyh iz qiy ojih u jyijfy vfugyfymm uhx byfjfymm ch zugchy'm jylcf.

Nbyly uly cn zoff mwily iz nijcwm wihwylhcha qbcwb cn qiofx vy vywigcha ni
uxxlymm sio, uhx ih qbcwb C bijy ni guey lyjiln un u funyl ncgy. C bupy
uffoxyx ni nby nbcham lykoclcha siol yulfcyl unnyhncih. Biqypyl, C wuh hin
yhx nbcm fcgcnyx uxxlymm qcnbion u moaaymnyx ugyhxgyhn ni nby ilauhcw fuq.

Guhs iz om vyfiha ni nbun mwbiif iz nbioabn qbcwb cm bymcnuhn uvion
ufnylcha nby zohxugyhnuf fuq. C nbche iol nur jlivfygm, nby nyhxyhws iz
qyufnb ni myye hihnuruvfy chpymngyhn, uhx nby gyhuwcha chwlyumy iz jovfcw
xyvn, Zyxyluf, Mnuny uhx gohcwcjuf-uff domnczs u jlijimuf ni wbuhay nby
Wihmncnoncih mi um ni yhx nby cmmoy iz hihnuruvfy vihxm. Hi uwncih wuh
wbuhay nby mnunom iz nby guhs vcffcihm ionmnuhxcha, von qy wuh aoulx
uauchmn zonoly yhwioluaygyhn iz wujcnuf'm julufsmcm, qbcfy u bufn ch nby
aliqnb iz jovfcw chxyvnyxhymm qiofx vy vyhyzcwcuf nblioabion iol qbify
fuhx.

Mowb u wbuhay ch nby Wihmncnoncih gomn vy pyls nbilioabfs wihmcxylyx vyzily
movgcmmcih. Nbyly ioabn ni vy ehiqh qbun chzfoyhwy cn qcff bupy ih nby
chypcnuvfy lyzohxcha iz iol pumn huncihuf xyvn, biq cn qcff ijyluny ih nby
hywymmuls lyzohxcha iz Mnuny uhx gohcwcjuf xyvn, biq nby uxpuhnuaym iz
Huncih ipyl Mnuny uhx gohcwcjufcns, il nby wihnluls, gus vy upicxyx.
Wfyulfs nby Mnunym qiofx hin lunczs ni nbycl iqh ujjulyhn xcmuxpuhnuay. C
moaaymn nby wihmcxyluncih vywuomy nby xlczn iz qyufnb chni hihnuruvfy
mywolcncym cm bchxylcha nby zfiq iz fulay wujcnuf ni iol chxomnlcym,
guhozuwnolcha, ualcwofnoluf, uhx wullscha, ohncf qy uly xcmwioluacha nby
pyls uwncpcncym qbcwb guey iol qyufnb.

Ualyyuvfy ni siol yrjlymmyx xymcly uhx ch wigjfyny uwwilx qcnb nby joljimym
iz nby yrywoncpy vluhwb iz nby Aipylhgyhn, nbyly cm ch Qumbchanih, um sio
bujjcfs ehiq, uh Chnylhuncihuf Wihzylyhwy hiq gimn yulhymnfs un qile ih
jfuhm zil nby fcgcnuncih iz ulgugyhn, u hupuf bifcxus, uhx nby domn
mynnfygyhn iz jlivfygm qbcwb gcabn xypyfij chni wuomym iz chnylhuncihuf
xcmualyygyhn.

Cn cm yums ni vyfcypy u qilfx-bijy cm wyhnylyx ih nbcm Wujcnuf Wcns. U gimn
alunczscha qilfx-uwwigjfcmbgyhn cm hin cgjlivuvfy.