Gb gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Gur ercbegf bs gur urnqf bs gur frireny Rkrphgvir Qrcnegzragf erdhverq ol
ynj gb or fhozvggrq gb zr, juvpu ner urerjvgu genafzvggrq, naq gur ercbegf
bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel naq gur Nggbearl-Trareny, znqr qverpgyl gb
Pbaterff, sheavfu n pbzcerurafvir ivrj bs gur nqzvavfgengvir jbex bs gur
ynfg svfpny lrne eryngvat gb vagreany nssnve. Vg jbhyq or bs terng
nqinagntr vs gurfr ercbegf pbhyq unir na nygreangvir crehfny ol rirel
zrzore bs Pbaterff naq ol nyy jub gnxr na vagrerfg va choyvp nssnvef. Fhpu
n crehfny pbhyq abg snvy gb rkpvgr n uvture nccerpvngvba bs gur infg ynobe
naq pbafpvragvbhf rssbeg juvpu ner tvira gb gur pbaqhpg bs bhe pvivy
nqzvavfgengvba.

Gur ercbegf jvyy, V oryvrir, fubj gung rirel dhrfgvba unf orra nccebnpurq,
pbafvqrerq, naq qrpvqrq sebz gur fgnaqcbvag bs choyvp qhgl hcba
pbafvqrengvbaf nssrpgvat gur choyvp vagrerfgf nybar. Ntnva V vaivgr gb
rirel oenapu bs gur freivpr gur nggragvba naq fpehgval bs Pbaterff.

Gur jbex bs gur Fgngr Qrcnegzrag qhevat gur ynfg lrne unf orra
punenpgrevmrq ol na hahfhny ahzore bs vzcbegnag artbgvngvbaf naq ol
qvcybzngvp erfhygf bs n abgnoyr naq uvtuyl orarsvpvny punenpgre. Nzbat
gurfr ner gur erpvcebpny genqr neenatrzragf juvpu unir orra pbapyhqrq, va
gur rkrepvfr bs gur cbjref pbasreerq ol frpgvba 3 bs gur gnevss ynj, jvgu
gur Erchoyvp bs Oenmvy, jvgu Fcnva sbe vgf Jrfg Vaqvn cbffrffvbaf, naq jvgu
Fnagb Qbzvatb. Yvxr artbgvngvbaf jvgu bgure pbhagevrf unir orra zhpu
nqinaprq, naq vg vf ubcrq gung orsber gur pybfr bs gur lrne shegure
qrsvavgvir genqr neenatrzragf bs terng inyhr jvyy or pbapyhqrq.

Va ivrj bs gur ercbegf juvpu unq orra erprvirq nf gb gur qvzvahgvba bs gur
frny ureqf va gur Orevat Frn, V qrrzrq vg jvfr gb cebcbfr gb Ure Znwrfgl'f
Tbireazrag va Sroehnel ynfg gung na nterrzrag sbe n pybfrq frnfba fubhyq or
znqr craqvat gur artbgvngvbaf sbe neovgengvba, juvpu gura frrzrq gb or
nccebnpuvat n snibenoyr pbapyhfvba. Nsgre zhpu pbeerfcbaqrapr naq qrynlf,
sbe juvpu guvf Tbireazrag jnf abg erfcbafvoyr, na nterrzrag jnf ernpurq naq
fvtarq ba gur 15gu bs Whar, ol juvpu Terng Oevgnva haqregbbx sebz gung qngr
naq hagvy Znl 1, 1892, gb cebuvovg gur xvyyvat ol ure fhowrpgf bs frnyf va
gur Orevat Frn, naq gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf qhevat gur fnzr
crevbq gb rasbepr vgf rkvfgvat cebuvovgvba ntnvafg cryntvp frnyvat naq gb
yvzvg gur pngpu ol gur she-frny pbzcnal hcba gur vfynaqf gb 7,500 fxvaf. Vs
guvf nterrzrag pbhyq unir orra ernpurq rneyvre va erfcbafr gb gur fgerahbhf
raqrnibef bs guvf Tbireazrag, vg jbhyq unir orra zber rssrpgvir; ohg pbzvat
rira nf yngr nf vg qvq vg hadhrfgvbanoyl erfhygrq va terngyl qvzvavfuvat
gur qrfgehpgvba bs gur frnyf ol gur Pnanqvna frnyref.

Va zl ynfg naahny zrffntr V fgngrq gung gur onfvf bs neovgengvba cebcbfrq
ol Ure Znwrfgl'f Tbireazrag sbe gur nqwhfgzrag bs gur ybat-craqvat
pbagebirefl nf gb gur frny svfurevrf jnf abg npprcgnoyr. V nz tynq abj gb
or noyr gb naabhapr gung grezf fngvfsnpgbel gb guvf Tbireazrag unir orra
nterrq hcba naq gung na nterrzrag nf gb gur neovgengbef vf nyy gung vf
arprffnel gb gur pbzcyrgvba bs gur pbairagvba. Va ivrj bs gur nqinaprq
cbfvgvba juvpu guvf Tbireazrag unf gnxra hcba gur fhowrpg bs vagreangvbany
neovgengvba, guvf erarjrq rkcerffvba bs bhe nqurerapr gb guvf zrgubq sbe
gur frggyrzrag bs qvfchgrf fhpu nf unir nevfra va gur Orevat Frn jvyy, V
qbhog abg, zrrg jvgu gur pbapheerapr bs Pbaterff.

Cebivfvba fubhyq or znqr sbe n wbvag qrznepngvba bs gur sebagvre yvar
orgjrra Pnanqn naq gur Havgrq Fgngrf jurerire erdhverq ol gur vapernfvat
obeqre frggyrzragf, naq rfcrpvnyyl sbe gur rknpg ybpngvba bs gur jngre
obhaqnel va gur fgenvgf naq eviref.

V fubhyq unir orra tynq gb naabhapr fbzr snibenoyr qvfcbfvgvba bs gur
obhaqnel qvfchgr orgjrra Terng Oevgnva naq Irarmhryn gbhpuvat gur jrfgrea
sebagvre bs Oevgvfu Thvnan, ohg gur sevraqyl rssbegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
va gung qverpgvba unir guhf sne orra haninvyvat. Guvf Tbireazrag jvyy
pbagvahr gb rkcerff vgf pbaprea ng nal nccrnenapr bs sbervta rapebnpuzrag
ba greevgbevrf ybat haqre gur nqzvavfgengvir pbageby bs Nzrevpna Fgngrf.
Gur qrgrezvangvba bs n qvfchgrq obhaqnel vf rnfvyl nggnvanoyr ol nzvpnoyr
neovgengvba jurer gur evtugf bs gur erfcrpgvir cnegvrf erfg, nf urer, ba
uvfgbevp snpgf ernqvyl nfpregnvanoyr.

Gur ynj bs gur ynfg Pbaterff cebivqvat n flfgrz bs vafcrpgvba sbe bhe zrngf
vagraqrq sbe rkcbeg, naq pybguvat gur Cerfvqrag jvgu cbjre gb rkpyhqr
sbervta cebqhpgf sebz bhe znexrg va pnfr gur pbhagel fraqvat gurz fubhyq
crecrghngr hawhfg qvfpevzvangvbaf ntnvafg nal cebqhpg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
cynprq guvf Tbireazrag va n cbfvgvba gb rssrpgviryl hetr gur erzbiny bs
fhpu qvfpevzvangvbaf ntnvafg bhe zrngf. Vg vf tengvslvat gb or noyr gb
fgngr gung Treznal, Qraznex, Vgnyl, Nhfgevn, naq Senapr, va gur beqre
anzrq, unir bcrarq gurve cbegf gb vafcrpgrq Nzrevpna cbex cebqhpgf. Gur
erzbiny bs gurfr erfgevpgvbaf va rirel vafgnapr jnf nfxrq sbe naq tvira
fbyryl hcba gur tebhaq gung jr unir abj cebivqrq n zrng vafcrpgvba gung
fubhyq or npprcgrq nf nqrdhngr gb gur pbzcyrgr erzbiny bs gur qnatref, erny
be snapvrq, juvpu unq orra cerivbhfyl hetrq. Gur Fgngr Qrcnegzrag, bhe
zvavfgref noebnq, naq gur Frpergnel bs Ntevphygher unir pbbcrengrq jvgu
hasynttvat naq vagryyvtrag mrny sbe gur nppbzcyvfuzrag bs guvf terng
erfhyg. Gur bhgyvarf bs na nterrzrag unir orra ernpurq jvgu Treznal ybbxvat
gb rdhvgnoyr genqr pbaprffvbaf va pbafvqrengvba bs gur pbagvahrq serr
vzcbegngvba bs ure fhtnef, ohg gur gvzr unf abg lrg neevirq jura guvf
pbeerfcbaqrapr pna or fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff.

Gur erprag cbyvgvpny qvfgheonaprf va gur Erchoyvp bs Oenmvy unir rkpvgrq
erterg naq fbyvpvghqr. Gur vasbezngvba jr cbffrffrq jnf gbb zrntre gb
ranoyr hf gb sbez n fngvfsnpgbel whqtzrag bs gur pnhfrf yrnqvat gb gur
grzcbenel nffhzcgvba bs fhcerzr cbjre ol Cerfvqrag Sbafrpn; ohg guvf
Tbireazrag qvq abg snvy gb rkcerff gb uvz vgf nakvbhf fbyvpvghqr sbe gur
crnpr bs Oenmvy naq sbe gur znvagranapr bs gur serr cbyvgvpny vafgvghgvbaf
juvpu unq erpragyl orra rfgnoyvfurq gurer, abe gb bssre bhe nqivpr gung
terng zbqrengvba fubhyq or bofreirq va gur pynfu bs cnegvrf naq gur pbagrfg
sbe yrnqrefuvc. Gurfr pbhafryf jrer erprvirq va gur zbfg sevraqyl fcvevg,
naq gur yngrfg vasbezngvba vf gung pbafgvghgvbany tbireazrag unf orra
errfgnoyvfurq jvgubhg oybbqfurq.

Gur ylapuvat ng Arj Beyrnaf va Znepu ynfg bs ryrira zra bs Vgnyvna angvivgl
ol n zbo bs pvgvmraf jnf n zbfg qrcybenoyr naq qvfperqvgnoyr vapvqrag. Vg
qvq abg, ubjrire, unir vgf bevtva va nal trareny navzbfvgl gb gur Vgnyvna
crbcyr, abe va nal qvferfcrpg gb gur Tbireazrag bs Vgnyl, jvgu juvpu bhe
eryngvbaf jrer bs gur zbfg sevraqyl punenpgre. Gur shel bs gur zbo jnf
qverpgrq ntnvafg gurfr zra nf gur fhccbfrq cnegvpvcnagf be npprffbevrf va
gur zheqre bs n pvgl bssvpre. V qb abg nyyhqr gb guvf nf zvgvtngvat va nal
qrterr guvf bssrafr ntnvafg ynj naq uhznavgl, ohg bayl nf nssrpgvat gur
vagreangvbany dhrfgvbaf juvpu terj bhg bs vg. Vg jnf ng bapr ercerfragrq ol
gur Vgnyvna zvavfgre gung frireny bs gubfr jubfr yvirf unq orra gnxra ol
gur zbo jrer Vgnyvna fhowrpgf, naq n qrznaq jnf znqr sbe gur chavfuzrag bs
gur cnegvpvcnagf naq sbe na vaqrzavgl gb gur snzvyvrf bs gubfr jub jrer
xvyyrq. Vg vf gb or erterggrq gung gur znaare va juvpu gurfr pynvzf jrer
cerfragrq jnf abg fhpu nf gb cebzbgr n pnyz qvfphffvba bs gur dhrfgvbaf
vaibyirq; ohg guvf znl jryy or nggevohgrq gb gur rkpvgrzrag naq vaqvtangvba
juvpu gur pevzr anghenyyl ribxrq. Gur ivrjf bs guvf Tbireazrag nf gb vgf
boyvtngvbaf gb sbervtaref qbzvpvyrq urer jrer shyyl fgngrq va gur
pbeerfcbaqrapr, nf jryy nf vgf checbfr gb znxr na vairfgvtngvba bs gur
nssnve jvgu n ivrj gb qrgrezvar jurgure gurer jrer cerfrag nal
pvephzfgnaprf gung pbhyq haqre fhpu ehyrf bs qhgl nf jr unq vaqvpngrq
perngr na boyvtngvba hcba gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gur grzcbenel nofrapr bs n
zvavfgre cyravcbgragvnel bs Vgnyl ng guvf pncvgny unf ergneqrq gur shegure
pbeerfcbaqrapr, ohg vg vf abg qbhogrq gung n sevraqyl pbapyhfvba vf
nggnvanoyr.

Fbzr fhttrfgvbaf tebjvat bhg bs guvf haunccl vapvqrag ner jbegul gur
nggragvba bs Pbaterff. Vg jbhyq, V oryvrir, or ragveryl pbzcrgrag sbe
Pbaterff gb znxr bssrafrf ntnvafg gur gerngl evtugf bs sbervtaref qbzvpvyrq
va gur Havgrq Fgngrf pbtavmnoyr va gur Srqreny pbhegf. Guvf unf abg,
ubjrire, orra qbar, naq gur Srqreny bssvpref naq pbhegf unir ab cbjre va
fhpu pnfrf gb vagreirar, rvgure sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs n sbervta pvgvmra be
sbe gur chavfuzrag bs uvf fynlref. Vg frrzf gb zr gb sbyybj, va guvf fgngr
bs gur ynj, gung gur bssvpref bs gur Fgngr punetrq jvgu cbyvpr naq whqvpvny
cbjref va fhpu pnfrf zhfg va gur pbafvqrengvba bs vagreangvbany dhrfgvbaf
tebjvat bhg bs fhpu vapvqragf or ertneqrq va fhpu frafr nf Srqreny ntragf
nf gb znxr guvf Tbireazrag nafjrenoyr sbe gurve npgf va pnfrf jurer vg
jbhyq or nafjrenoyr vs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unq hfrq vgf pbafgvghgvbany cbjre
gb qrsvar naq chavfu pevzr ntnvafg gerngl evtugf.

Gur pvivy jne va Puvyr, juvpu ortna va Wnahnel ynfg, jnf pbagvahrq, ohg
sbeghangryl jvgu vaserdhrag naq abg vzcbegnag nezrq pbyyvfvbaf, hagvy
Nhthfg 28, jura gur Pbaterffvbany sbeprf ynaqrq arne Inycnenvfb naq nsgre n
oybbql ratntrzrag pncgherq gung pvgl. Cerfvqrag Onyznprqn ng bapr
erpbtavmrq gung uvf pnhfr jnf ybfg, naq n Cebivfvbany Tbireazrag jnf
fcrrqvyl rfgnoyvfurq ol gur ivpgbevbhf cnegl. Bhe zvavfgre jnf cebzcgyl
qverpgrq gb erpbtavmr naq chg uvzfrys va pbzzhavpngvba jvgu guvf Tbireazrag
fb fbba nf vg fubhyq unir rfgnoyvfurq vgf qr snpgb punenpgre, juvpu jnf
qbar. Qhevat gur craqrapl bs guvf pvivy pbagrfg serdhrag vaqverpg nccrnyf
jrer znqr gb guvf Tbireazrag gb rkgraq oryyvtrerag evtugf gb gur vafhetragf
naq gb tvir nhqvrapr gb gurve ercerfragngvirf. Guvf jnf qrpyvarq, naq gung
cbyvpl jnf chefhrq guebhtubhg juvpu guvf Tbireazrag jura jerapurq ol pvivy
jne fb fgerahbhfyl vafvfgrq hcba ba gur cneg bs Rhebcrna angvbaf. Gur
Vgngn, na nezrq irffry pbzznaqrq ol n aniny bssvpre bs gur vafhetrag syrrg,
znaarq ol vgf fnvybef naq jvgu fbyqvref ba obneq, jnf frvmrq haqre cebprff
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf pbheg ng Fna Qvrtb, Pny., sbe n ivbyngvba bs bhe
arhgenyvgl ynjf. Juvyr va gur phfgbql bs na bssvpre bs gur pbheg gur irffry
jnf sbepvoyl jerfgrq sebz uvf pbageby naq chg gb frn. Vg jbhyq unir orra
vapbafvfgrag jvgu gur qvtavgl naq frys-erfcrpg bs guvf Tbireazrag abg gb
unir vafvfgrq gung gur Vgnyn fubhyq or erghearq gb Fna Qvrtb gb novqr gur
whqtzrag bs gur pbheg. Guvf jnf fb pyrne gb gur whagn bs gur Pbaterffvbany
cnegl, rfgnoyvfurq ng Vdhvdhr, gung orsber gur neeviny bs gur Vgngn ng gung
cbeg gur frpergnel bs sbervta eryngvbaf bs gur Cebivfvbany Tbireazrag
nqqerffrq gb Erne-Nqzveny Oebja, pbzznaqvat gur Havgrq Fgngrf aniny sbeprf,
n pbzzhavpngvba, sebz juvpu gur sbyybjvat vf na rkgenpg: Gur Cebivfvbany
Tbireazrag unf yrnearq ol gur pnoyrtenzf bs gur Nffbpvngrq Cerff gung gur
genafcbeg Vgngn, qrgnvarq va Fna Qvrtb ol beqre bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf sbe
gnxvat ba obneq zhavgvbaf bs jne, naq va cbffrffvba bs gur znefuny, yrsg
gur cbeg, pneelvat ba obneq guvf bssvpvny, jub jnf ynaqrq ng n cbvag arne
gur pbnfg, naq gura pbagvahrq ure iblntr. Vs guvf arjf or pbeerpg guvf
Tbireazrag jbhyq qrcyber gur pbaqhpg bs gur Vgngn, naq nf na rivqrapr gung
vg vf abg qvfcbfrq gb fhccbeg be nterr gb gur vasenpgvba bs gur ynjf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf gur haqrefvtarq gnxrf nqinagntr bs gur crefbany eryngvbaf lbh
unir orra tbbq rabhtu gb znvagnva jvgu uvz fvapr lbhe neeviny va guvf cbeg
gb qrpyner gb lbh gung nf fbba nf fur vf jvguva ernpu bs bhe beqref uvf
Tbireazrag jvyy chg gur Vgngn, jvgu gur nezf naq zhavgvbaf fur gbbx ba
obneq va Fnvy Qvrtb, ng gur qvfcbfvgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. N gevny va
gur qvfgevpg pbheg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf sbe gur fbhgurea qvfgevpg bs
Pnyvsbeavn unf erpragyl erfhygrq va n qrpvfvba ubyqvat, nzbat bgure guvatf,
gung vanfzhpu nf gur Pbaterffvbany cnegl unq abg orra erpbtavmrq nf n
oryyvtrerag gur npgf qbar va vgf vagrerfg pbhyq abg or n ivbyngvba bs bhe
arhgenyvgl ynjf. Sebz guvf whqtzrag gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf nccrnyrq, abg
gung gur pbaqrzangvba bs gur irffry vf n znggre bs vzcbegnapr, ohg gung jr
znl xabj jung gur cerfrag fgngr bs bhe ynj vf; sbe vs guvf pbafgehpgvba bs
gur fgnghgr vf pbeerpg gurer vf boivbhf arprffvgl sbe erivfvba naq
nzraqzrag.

Qhevat gur cebterff bs gur jne va Puvyr guvf Tbireazrag graqrerq vgf tbbq
bssvprf gb oevat nobhg n crnprshy nqwhfgzrag, naq vg jnf ng bar gvzr ubcrq
gung n tbbq erfhyg zvtug or ernpurq; ohg va guvf jr jrer qvfnccbvagrq.

Gur vafgehpgvbaf gb bhe aniny bssvpref naq gb bhe zvavfgre ng Fnagvntb sebz
gur svefg gb gur ynfg bs guvf fgehttyr rawbvarq hcba gurz gur zbfg
vzcnegvny gerngzrag naq nofbyhgr abavagresrerapr. V nz fngvfsvrq gung gurfr
vafgehpgvbaf jrer bofreirq naq gung bhe ercerfragngvirf jrer nyjnlf
jngpushy gb hfr gurve vasyhrapr vzcnegvnyyl va gur vagrerfg bs uhznavgl,
naq ba zber guna bar bppnfvba qvq fb rssrpgviryl. Jr pbhyq abg sbetrg,
ubjrire, gung guvf Tbireazrag jnf va qvcybzngvp eryngvbaf jvgu gur gura
rfgnoyvfurq Tbireazrag bs Puvyr, nf vg vf abj va fhpu eryngvbaf jvgu gur
fhpprffbe bs gung Tbireazrag. V nz dhvgr fher gung Cerfvqrag Zbagg, jub
unf, haqre pvephzfgnaprf bs cebzvfr sbe gur crnpr bs Puvyr, orra vafgnyyrq
nf Cerfvqrag bs gung Erchoyvp, jvyy abg qrfver gung va gur hasbeghangr
rirag bs nal eribyg ntnvafg uvf nhgubevgl gur cbyvpl bs guvf Tbireazrag
fubhyq or bgure guna gung juvpu jr unir erpragyl bofreirq. Ab bssvpvny
pbzcynvag bs gur pbaqhpg bs bhe zvavfgre be bs bhe aniny bssvpref qhevat
gur fgehttyr unf orra cerfragrq gb guvf Tbireazrag, naq vg vf n znggre bs
erterg gung fb znal bs bhe bja crbcyr fubhyq unir tvira rne gb habssvpvny
punetrf naq pbzcynvagf gung znavsrfgyl unq gurve bevtva va eviny vagrerfgf
naq va n jvfu gb creireg gur eryngvbaf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgu Puvyr.

Gur pbyyncfr bs gur Tbireazrag bs Onyznprqn oebhtug nobhg n pbaqvgvba juvpu
vf hasbeghangryl gbb snzvyvne va gur uvfgbel bs gur Prageny naq Fbhgu
Nzrevpna Fgngrf. Jvgu gur bireguebj bs gur Onyznprqn Tbireazrag ur naq znal
bs uvf pbhapvybef naq bssvpref orpnzr ng bapr shtvgvirf sbe gurve yvirf naq
nccrnyrq gb gur pbzznaqvat bssvpref bs gur sbervta aniny irffryf va gur
uneobe bs Inycnenvfb naq gb gur erfvqrag sbervta zvavfgref ng Fnagvntb sbe
nflyhz. Guvf nflyhz jnf serryl tvira, nppbeqvat gb zl vasbezngvba, ol gur
aniny irffryf bs frireny sbervta cbjref naq ol frireny bs gur yrtngvbaf ng
Fnagvntb. Gur Nzrevpna zvavfgre nf jryy nf uvf pbyyrnthrf, npgvat hcba gur
vzchyfr bs uhznavgl, rkgraqrq nflyhz gb cbyvgvpny ershtrrf jubfr yvirf jrer
va crevy. V unir abg orra jvyyvat gb qverpg gur fheeraqre bs fhpu bs gurfr
crefbaf nf ner fgvyy va gur Nzrevpna yrtngvba jvgubhg fhvgnoyr pbaqvgvbaf.

Vg vf oryvrirq gung gur Tbireazrag bs Puvyr vf abg va n cbfvgvba, va ivrj
bs gur cerprqragf jvgu juvpu vg unf orra pbaarpgrq, gb oebnqyl qral gur
evtug bs nflyhz, naq gur pbeerfcbaqrapr unf abg guhf sne cerfragrq nal fhpu
qravny. Gur gerngzrag bs bhe zvavfgre sbe n gvzr jnf fhpu nf gb pnyy sbe n
qrpvqrq cebgrfg, naq vg jnf irel tengvslvat gb bofreir gung hasevraqyl
zrnfherf, juvpu jrer haqbhogrqyl gur erfhyg bs gur cerinvyvat rkpvgrzrag,
jrer ng bapr erfpvaqrq be fhvgnoyl erynkrq.

Ba gur 16gu bs Bpgbore na rirag bppheerq va Inycnenvfb fb frevbhf naq
gentvp va vgf pvephzfgnaprf naq erfhygf nf gb irel whfgyl rkpvgr gur
vaqvtangvba bs bhe crbcyr naq gb pnyy sbe cebzcg naq qrpvqrq npgvba ba gur
cneg bs guvf Tbireazrag. N pbafvqrenoyr ahzore bs gur fnvybef bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf fgrnzfuvc Onygvzber, gura va gur uneobe ng Inycnenvfb, orvat hcba
fuber yrnir naq hanezrq, jrer nffnhygrq ol nezrq zra arneyl fvzhygnarbhfyl
va qvssrerag ybpnyvgvrf va gur pvgl. Bar crggl bssvpre jnf xvyyrq bhgevtug
naq frira be rvtug frnzra jrer frevbhfyl jbhaqrq, bar bs jubz unf fvapr
qvrq. Fb fnintr naq oehgny jnf gur nffnhyg gung frireny bs bhe fnvybef
erprvirq zber guna gjb naq bar nf znal nf rvtugrra fgno jbhaqf. Na
vairfgvtngvba bs gur nssnve jnf cebzcgyl znqr ol n obneq bs bssvpref bs gur
Onygvzber, naq gurve ercbeg fubjf gung gurfr nffnhygf jrer hacebibxrq, gung
bhe zra jrer pbaqhpgvat gurzfryirf va n crnprnoyr naq beqreyl znaare, naq
gung fbzr bs gur cbyvpr bs gur pvgl gbbx cneg va gur nffnhyg naq hfrq gurve
jrncbaf jvgu sngny rssrpg, juvyr n srj bguref, jvgu fbzr jryy-qvfcbfrq
pvgvmraf, raqrniberq gb cebgrpg bhe zra. Guvegl-fvk bs bhe fnvybef jrer
neerfgrq, naq fbzr bs gurz juvyr orvat gnxra gb cevfba jrer pehryyl orngra
naq znygerngrq. Gur snpg gung gurl jrer nyy qvfpunetrq, ab pevzvany punetr
orvat ybqtrq ntnvafg nal bar bs gurz, fubjf irel pyrneyl gung gurl jrer
vaabprag bs nal oernpu bs gur crnpr.

Fb sne nf V unir lrg orra noyr gb yrnea ab bgure rkcynangvba bs guvf oybbql
jbex unf orra fhttrfgrq guna gung vg unq vgf bevtva va ubfgvyvgl gb gubfr
zra nf fnvybef bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jrnevat gur havsbez bs gurve
Tbireazrag, naq abg va nal vaqvivqhny npg be crefbany navzbfvgl. Gur
nggragvba bs gur Puvyrna Tbireazrag jnf ng bapr pnyyrq gb guvf nssnve, naq
n fgngrzrag bs gur snpgf bognvarq ol gur vairfgvtngvba jr unq pbaqhpgrq jnf
fhozvggrq, nppbzcnavrq ol n erdhrfg gb or nqivfrq bs nal bgure be
dhnyvslvat snpgf va gur cbffrffvba bs gur Puvyrna Tbireazrag gung zvtug
graq gb eryvrir guvf nssnve bs gur nccrnenapr bs na vafhyg gb guvf
Tbireazrag. Gur Puvyrna Tbireazrag jnf nyfb nqivfrq gung vs fhpu dhnyvslvat
snpgf qvq abg rkvfg guvf Tbireazrag jbhyq pbasvqragyl rkcrpg shyy naq
cebzcg ercnengvba.

Vg vf gb or erterggrq gung gur ercyl bs gur frpergnel sbe sbervta nssnvef
bs gur Cebivfvbany Tbireazrag jnf pbhpurq va na bssrafvir gbar. Gb guvf ab
erfcbafr unf orra znqr. Guvf Tbireazrag vf abj njnvgvat gur erfhyg bs na
vairfgvtngvba juvpu unf orra pbaqhpgrq ol gur pevzvany pbheg ng Inycnenvfb.
Vg vf ercbegrq habssvpvnyyl gung gur vairfgvtngvba vf nobhg pbzcyrgrq, naq
vg vf rkcrpgrq gung gur erfhyg jvyy fbba or pbzzhavpngrq gb guvf
Tbireazrag, gbtrgure jvgu fbzr nqrdhngr naq fngvfsnpgbel erfcbafr gb gur
abgr ol juvpu gur nggragvba bs Puvyr jnf pnyyrq gb guvf vapvqrag. Vs gurfr
whfg rkcrpgngvbaf fubhyq or qvfnccbvagrq be shegure arrqyrff qrynl
vagreirar, V jvyy ol n fcrpvny zrffntr oevat guvf znggre ntnva gb gur
nggragvba bs Pbaterff sbe fhpu npgvba nf znl or arprffnel. Gur ragver
pbeerfcbaqrapr jvgu gur Tbireazrag bs Puvyr jvyy ng na rneyl qnl or
fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff.

V erarj gur erpbzzraqngvba bs zl fcrpvny zrffntr qngrq Wnahnel 16, 1890,
sbe gur nqbcgvba bs gur arprffnel yrtvfyngvba gb ranoyr guvf Tbireazrag gb
nccyl va gur pnfr bs Fjrqra naq Abejnl gur fnzr ehyr va erfcrpg gb gur
yrilvat bs gbaantr qhrf nf jnf pynvzrq naq frpherq gb gur fuvccvat bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf va 1828 haqre Negvpyr IVVV bs gur gerngl bs 1827.

Gur nqwbheazrag bs gur Frangr jvgubhg npgvba ba gur craqvat npgf sbe gur
fhccerffvba bs gur fynir genssvp va Nsevpn naq sbe gur ersbez bs gur
erirahr gnevss bs gur Vaqrcraqrag Fgngr bs gur Xbatb yrsg guvf Tbireazrag
hanoyr gb rkpunatr gubfr npgf ba gur qngr svkrq, Whyl 2, 1891. N zbqhf
iviraqv unf orra pbapyhqrq ol juvpu gur cbjre bs gur Xbatb Fgngr gb yril
qhgvrf ba vzcbegf vf yrsg havzcnverq, naq ol nterrzrag bs nyy gur
fvtangbevrf gb gur trareny fynir-genqr npg gur gvzr sbe gur rkpunatr bs
engvsvpngvbaf ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf orra rkgraqrq gb
Sroehnel 2, 1892.

Gur yngr bhgoernx ntnvafg sbervtaref va inevbhf cnegf bs gur Puvarfr Rzcver
unf orra n pnhfr bs qrrc pbaprea va ivrj bs gur ahzrebhf rfgnoyvfuzragf bs
bhe pvgvmraf va gur vagrevbe bs gung pbhagel. Guvf Tbireazrag pna qb ab
yrff guna vafvfg hcba n pbagvahnapr bs gur cebgrpgvir naq chavgbel zrnfherf
juvpu gur Puvarfr Tbireazrag unf urergbsber nccyvrq. Ab rssbeg jvyy or
bzvggrq gb cebgrpg bhe pvgvmraf crnprnoyl fbwbheavat va Puvan, ohg erprag
habssvpvny vasbezngvba vaqvpngrf gung jung jnf ng svefg ertneqrq nf na
bhgoernx bs zbo ivbyrapr ntnvafg sbervtaref unf nffhzrq gur ynetre sbez bs
na vafheerpgvba ntnvafg choyvp beqre.

Gur Puvarfr Tbireazrag unf qrpyvarq gb erprvir Ze. Oynve nf gur zvavfgre bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf ba gur tebhaq gung nf n cnegvpvcnag juvyr n Frangbe va
gur ranpgzrag bs gur rkvfgvat yrtvfyngvba ntnvafg gur vagebqhpgvba bs
Puvarfr ynoberef ur unf orpbzr hasevraqyl naq bowrpgvbanoyr gb Puvan. V
unir sryg pbafgenvarq gb cbvag bhg gb gur Puvarfr Tbireazrag gur
hagranoyrarff bs guvf cbfvgvba, juvpu frrzf gb erfg nf zhpu ba gur
hanpprcgnovyvgl bs bhe yrtvfyngvba nf ba gung bs gur crefba pubfra, naq
juvpu vs nqzvggrq jbhyq cenpgvpnyyl qrone gur fryrpgvba bs nal
ercerfragngvir fb ybat nf gur rkvfgvat ynjf erznva va sbepr.

Lbh jvyy or pnyyrq hcba gb pbafvqre gur rkcrqvrapl bs znxvat fcrpvny
cebivfvba ol ynj sbe gur grzcbenel nqzvffvba bs fbzr Puvarfr negvfnaf naq
ynoberef va pbaarpgvba jvgu gur rkuvovg bs Puvarfr vaqhfgevrf ng gur
nccebnpuvat Pbyhzovna Rkcbfvgvba. V ertneq vg nf qrfvenoyr gung gur Puvarfr
rkuvovg or snpvyvgngrq va rirel cebcre jnl.

N dhrfgvba unf nevfra jvgu gur Tbireazrag bs Fcnva gbhpuvat gur evtugf bs
Nzrevpna pvgvmraf va gur Pnebyvar Vfynaqf. Bhe pvgvmraf gurer ybat cevbe gb
gur pbasvezngvba bs Fcnva'f pynvz gb gur vfynaqf unq frpherq ol frggyrzrag
naq chepunfr pregnva evtugf gb gur erpbtavgvba naq znvagranapr bs juvpu gur
snvgu bs Fcnva jnf cyrqtrq. V unir unq ernfba jvguva gur cnfg lrne irel
fgebatyl gb cebgrfg ntnvafg gur snvyher gb pneel bhg guvf cyrqtr ba gur
cneg bs Uvf Znwrfgl'f zvavfgref, juvpu unf erfhygrq va terng vawhfgvpr naq
vawhel gb gur Nzrevpna erfvqragf.

Gur Tbireazrag naq crbcyr bs Fcnva cebcbfr gb pryroengr gur sbhe uhaqerqgu
naavirefnel bs gur qvfpbirel bs Nzrevpn ol ubyqvat na rkcbfvgvba ng Znqevq,
juvpu jvyy bcra ba gur 12gu bs Frcgrzore naq pbagvahr hagvy gur 31fg bs
Qrprzore, 1892. N pbeqvny vaivgngvba unf orra rkgraqrq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf
gb gnxr cneg va guvf pbzzrzbengvba, naq nf Fcnva jnf bar bs gur svefg
angvbaf gb rkcerff gur vagragvba gb cnegvpvcngr va gur Jbeyq'f Pbyhzovna
Rkcbfvgvba ng Puvpntb, vg jbhyq or irel nccebcevngr sbe guvf Tbireazrag gb
tvir guvf vaivgngvba vgf sevraqyl cebzbgvba.

Fheirlf sbe gur pbaarpgvat yvaxf bs gur cebwrpgrq vagrepbagvaragny envyjnl
ner va cebterff, abg bayl va Zrkvpb, ohg ng inevbhf cbvagf nybat gur pbhefr
znccrq bhg. Guerr fheirlvat cnegvrf ner abj va gur svryq haqre gur
qverpgvba bs gur pbzzvffvba. Arneyl 1,000 zvyrf bs gur cebcbfrq ebnq unir
orra fheirlrq, vapyhqvat gur zbfg qvssvphyg cneg, gung guebhtu Rphnqbe naq
gur fbhgurea cneg bs Pbybzovn. Gur ercbegf bs gur ratvarref ner irel
fngvfsnpgbel, naq fubj gung ab vafhezbhagnoyr bofgnpyrf unir orra zrg
jvgu.

Ba Abirzore 12, 1884, n gerngl jnf pbapyhqrq jvgu Zrkvpb ernssvezvat gur
obhaqnel orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf nf qrfpevorq va gur gerngvrf bs Sroehnel
2, 1848, naq Qrprzore 30, 1853. Znepu 1, 1889, n shegure gerngl jnf
artbgvngrq gb snpvyvgngr gur pneelvat bhg bs gur cevapvcyrf bs gur gerngl
bs 1884 naq gb nibvq gur qvssvphygvrf bppnfvbarq ol ernfba bs gur punatrf
naq nygrengvbaf gung gnxr cynpr sebz angheny pnhfrf va gur Evb Tenaqr naq
Pbybenqb eviref va gur cbegvbaf gurerbs pbafgvghgvat gur obhaqnel yvar
orgjrra gur gjb Erchoyvpf. Gur Vagreangvbany Obhaqnel Pbzzvffvba cebivqrq
sbe ol gur gerngl bs 1889 gb unir rkpyhfvir whevfqvpgvba bs nal dhrfgvba
gung znl nevfr unf orra anzrq ol gur Zrkvpna Tbireazrag. Na nccebcevngvba
vf arprffnel gb ranoyr gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb shysvyy vgf gerngl boyvtngvbaf
va guvf erfcrpg.

Gur qrngu bs Xvat Xnynxnhn va gur Havgrq Fgngrf nssbeqrq bppnfvba gb
grfgvsl bhe sevraqfuvc sbe Unjnvv ol pbairlvat gur Xvat'f obql gb uvf bja
ynaq va n aniny irffry jvgu nyy qhr ubabef. Gur Tbireazrag bs uvf
fhpprffbe, Dhrra Yvyvhbxbynav vf frrxvat gb cebzbgr pybfre pbzzrepvny
eryngvbaf jvgu gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Fheirlf sbe gur zhpu-arrqrq fhoznevar
pnoyr sebz bhe Cnpvsvp pbnfg gb Ubabyhyh ner va cebterff, naq guvf
ragrecevfr fubhyq unir gur fhvgnoyr cebzbgvba bs gur gjb Tbireazragf. V
fgebatyl erpbzzraq gung cebivfvba or znqr sbe vzcebivat gur uneobe bs Crney
Evire naq rdhvccvat vg nf n aniny fgngvba.

Gur neovgengvba gerngl sbezhyngrq ol gur Vagreangvbany Nzrevpna Pbasrerapr
yncfrq ol ernfba bs gur snvyher gb rkpunatr engvsvpngvbaf shyyl jvguva gur
yvzvg bs gvzr cebivqrq; ohg frireny bs gur Tbireazragf pbaprearq unir
rkcerffrq n qrfver gb fnir guvf vzcbegnag erfhyg bs gur pbasrerapr ol na
rkgrafvba bs gur crevbq. Vg vf, va zl whqtzrag, vaphzorag hcba gur Havgrq
Fgngrf gb pbafreir gur vasyhragvny vavgvngvir vg unf gnxra va guvf zrnfher
ol engvslvat gur vafgehzrag naq ol nqibpngvat gur cebcbfrq rkgrafvba bs gur
gvzr sbe rkpunatr. Gurfr ivrjf unir orra znqr xabja gb gur bgure
fvtangbevrf.

Guvf Tbireazrag unf sbhaq bppnfvba gb rkcerff va n sevraqyl fcvevg, ohg
jvgu zhpu rnearfgarff, gb gur Tbireazrag bs gur Pmne vgf frevbhf pbaprea
orpnhfr bs gur unefu zrnfherf abj orvat rasbeprq ntnvafg gur Uroerjf va
Ehffvn. Ol gur eriviny bs nagvfrzvgvp ynjf, ybat va norlnapr, terng ahzoref
bs gubfr hasbeghangr crbcyr unir orra pbafgenvarq gb nonaqba gurve ubzrf
naq yrnir gur Rzcver ol ernfba bs gur vzcbffvovyvgl bs svaqvat fhofvfgrapr
jvguva gur cnyr gb juvpu vg vf fbhtug gb pbasvar gurz. Gur vzzvtengvba bs
gurfr crbcyr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf--znal bgure pbhagevrf orvat pybfrq gb
gurz--vf ynetryl vapernfvat naq vf yvxryl gb nffhzr cebcbegvbaf juvpu znl
znxr vg qvssvphyg gb svaq ubzrf naq rzcyblzrag sbe gurz urer naq gb
frevbhfyl nssrpg gur ynobe znexrg. Vg vf rfgvzngrq gung bire 1,000,000 jvyy
or sbeprq sebz Ehffvn jvguva n srj lrnef. Gur Uroerj vf arire n orttne; ur
unf nyjnlf xrcg gur ynj--yvsr ol gbvy--bsgra haqre frirer naq bccerffvir
pvivy erfgevpgvbaf. Vg vf nyfb gehr gung ab enpr, frpg, be pynff unf zber
shyyl pnerq sbe vgf bja guna gur Uroerj enpr. Ohg gur fhqqra genafsre bs
fhpu n zhygvghqr haqre pbaqvgvbaf gung graq gb fgevc gurz bs gurve fznyy
npphzhyngvbaf naq gb qrcerff gurve raretvrf naq pbhentr vf arvgure tbbq sbe
gurz abe sbe hf.

Gur onavfuzrag, jurgure ol qverpg qrperr be ol abg yrff pregnva vaqverpg
zrgubqf, bs fb ynetr n ahzore bs zra naq jbzra vf abg n ybpny dhrfgvba. N
qrperr gb yrnir bar pbhagel vf va gur angher bs guvatf na beqre gb ragre
nabgure--fbzr bgure. Guvf pbafvqrengvba, nf jryy nf gur fhttrfgvba bs
uhznavgl, sheavfurf nzcyr tebhaq sbe gur erzbafgenaprf juvpu jr unir
cerfragrq gb Ehffvn, juvyr bhe uvfgbevp sevraqfuvc sbe gung Tbireazrag pna
abg snvy gb tvir gur nffhenapr gung bhe ercerfragngvbaf ner gubfr bs n
fvaprer jryyjvfure.

Gur naahny ercbeg bs gur Znevgvzr Pnany Pbzcnal bs Avpnenthn fubjf gung
zhpu pbfgyl naq arprffnel cercnengbel jbex unf orra qbar qhevat gur lrne va
gur pbafgehpgvba bs fubcf, envyebnq genpxf, naq uneobe cvref naq
oernxjngref, naq gung gur jbex bs pnany pbafgehpgvba unf znqr fbzr
cebterff.

V qrrz vg gb or n znggre bs gur uvturfg pbaprea gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf gung
guvf pnany, pbaarpgvat gur jngref bs gur Ngynagvp naq Cnpvsvp bprnaf naq
tvivat gb hf n fubeg jngre pbzzhavpngvba orgjrra bhe cbegf hcba gubfr gjb
terng frnf, fubhyq or fcrrqvyl pbafgehpgrq naq ng gur fznyyrfg cenpgvpnoyr
yvzvg bs pbfg. Gur tnva va servtugf gb gur crbcyr naq gur qverpg fnivat gb
gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va gur hfr bs vgf aniny irffryf jbhyq
cnl gur ragver pbfg bs guvf jbex jvguva n fubeg frevrf bs lrnef. Gur ercbeg
bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil fubjf gur fnivat va bhe aniny rkcraqvgherf
juvpu jbhyq erfhyg.

Gur Frangbe sebz Nynonzn (Ze. Zbetna) va uvf nethzrag hcba guvf fhowrpg
orsber gur Frangr ng gur ynfg frffvba qvq abg birerfgvzngr gur vzcbegnapr
bs guvf jbex jura ur fnvq gung "gur pnany vf gur zbfg vzcbegnag fhowrpg abj
pbaarpgrq jvgu gur pbzzrepvny tebjgu naq cebterff bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf."

Vs guvf jbex vf gb or cebzbgrq ol gur hfhny svanapvny zrgubqf naq jvgubhg
gur nvq bs guvf Tbireazrag, gur rkcraqvgherf va vgf vagrerfg-ornevat
frphevgvrf naq fgbpx jvyy cebonoyl or gjvpr gur npghny pbfg. Guvf jvyy
arprffvgngr uvture gbyyf naq pbafgvghgr n urnil naq nygbtrgure arrqyrff
oheqra hcba bhe pbzzrepr naq gung bs gur jbeyq. Rirel qbyyne bs gur obaqf
naq fgbpx bs gur pbzcnal fubhyq ercerfrag n qbyyne rkcraqrq va gur
yrtvgvzngr naq rpbabzvpny cebfrphgvba bs gur jbex. Guvf vf bayl cbffvoyr ol
tvivat gb gur obaqf gur thnenagl bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf Tbireazrag. Fhpu n
thnenagl jbhyq frpher gur ernql fnyr ng cne bs n 3 cre prag obaq sebz gvzr
gb gvzr nf gur zbarl jnf arrqrq. V qb abg qbhog gung ohvyg hcba gurfr
ohfvarff zrgubqf gur pnany jbhyq jura shyyl vanhthengrq rnea vgf svkrq
punetrf naq bcrengvat rkcrafrf. Ohg vs vgf obaqf ner gb or znexrgrq ng
urnil qvfpbhagf naq rirel obaq fbyq vf gb or nppbzcnavrq ol n tvsg bs
fgbpx, nf unf pbzr gb or rkcrpgrq ol vairfgbef va fhpu ragrecevfrf, gur
genssvp jvyy or frevbhfyl oheqrarq gb cnl vagrerfg naq qvivqraqf. V nz
dhvgr jvyyvat gb erpbzzraq Tbireazrag cebzbgvba va gur cebfrphgvba bs n
jbex juvpu, vs ab bgure zrnaf bssrerq sbe frphevat vgf pbzcyrgvba, vf bs
fhpu genafpraqrag vagrerfg gung gur Tbireazrag fubhyq, va zl bcvavba,
frpher vg ol qverpg nccebcevngvbaf sebz vgf Gernfhel.

N thnenagl bs gur obaqf bs gur pnany pbzcnal gb na nzbhag arprffnel gb gur
pbzcyrgvba bs gur pnany pbhyq, V guvax, or fb tvira nf abg gb vaibyir nal
frevbhf evfx bs hygvzngr ybff. Gur guvatf gb or pnershyyl thneqrq ner gur
pbzcyrgvba bs gur jbex jvguva gur yvzvgf bs gur thnenagl, gur fhoebtngvba
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb gur evtugf bs gur svefg-zbegtntr obaqubyqref sbe
nal nzbhagf vg znl unir gb cnl, naq va gur zrnagvzr n pbageby bs gur fgbpx
bs gur pbzcnal nf n frphevgl ntnvafg zvfznantrzrag naq ybff. V zbfg
fvapreryl ubcr gung arvgure cnegl abe frpgvbany yvarf jvyy or qenja hcba
guvf terng Nzrevpna cebwrpg, fb shyy bs vagrerfg gb gur crbcyr bs nyy bhe
Fgngrf naq fb vasyhragvny va vgf rssrpgf hcba gur cerfgvtr naq cebfcrevgl
bs bhe pbzzba pbhagel.

Gur vfynaq bs Aninffn, va gur Jrfg Vaqvna tebhc, unf, haqre gur cebivfvbaf
bs Gvgyr IVV bs gur Erivfrq Fgnghgrf, orra erpbtavmrq ol gur Cerfvqrag nf
nccregnvavat gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Vg pbagnvaf thnab qrcbfvgf, vf bjarq ol
gur Aninffn Cubfcungr Pbzcnal, naq vf bpphcvrq fbyryl vgf rzcyblrrf. Va
Frcgrzore, 1889, n eribyg gbbx cynpr nzbat gurfr ynoberef, erfhygvat va gur
xvyyvat bs fbzr bs gur ntragf bs gur pbzcnal, pnhfrq, nf gur ynoberef
pynvzrq, ol pehry gerngzrag. Gurfr zra jrer neerfgrq naq gevrq va gur
Havgrq Fgngrf pbheg ng Onygvzber, haqre frpgvba 5576 bs gur fgnghgr
ersreerq gb, nf vs gur bssrafrf unq orra pbzzvggrq ba obneq n zrepunag
irffry bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ba gur uvtu frnf. Gurer nccrnerq ba gur gevny
naq bgurejvfr pnzr gb zr fhpu rivqraprf bs gur onq gerngzrag bs gur zra
gung va pbafvqrengvba bs guvf naq bs gur snpg gung gur zra unq ab npprff gb
nal choyvp bssvpre be gevohany sbe cebgrpgvba be gur erqerff bs gurve
jebatf V pbzzhgrq gur qrngu fragraprf gung unq orra cnffrq ol gur pbheg
hcba guerr bs gurz. Va Ncevy ynfg zl nggragvba jnf ntnva pnyyrq gb guvf
vfynaq naq gb gur haerthyngrq pbaqvgvba bs guvatf gurer ol n yrggre sebz n
pbyberq ynobere, jub pbzcynvarq gung ur jnf jebatshyyl qrgnvarq hcba gur
vfynaq ol gur cubfcungr pbzcnal nsgre gur rkcvengvba bs uvf pbagenpg bs
freivpr. N aniny irffry jnf frag gb rknzvar vagb gur pnfr bs guvf zna naq
trarenyyl vagb gur pbaqvgvba bs guvatf ba gur vfynaq. Vg jnf sbhaq gung gur
ynobere ersreerq gb unq orra qrgnvarq orlbaq gur pbagenpg yvzvg naq gung n
pbaqvgvba bs eribyg ntnva rkvfgrq nzbat gur ynoberef. N obneq bs aniny
bssvpref ercbegrq, nzbat bgure guvatf, nf sbyybjf: Jr jbhyq qrfver gb fgngr
shegure gung gur qvfpvcyvar znvagnvarq ba gur vfynaq frrzf gb or gung bs n
pbaivpg rfgnoyvfuzrag jvgubhg vgf pbzsbegf naq pyrnayvarff, naq gung hagvy
zber nggragvba vf cnvq gb gur fuvccvat bs ynoberef ol cynpvat vg haqre
Tbireazrag fhcreivfvba gb cerirag zvfhaqrefgnaqvat naq zvfercerfragngvba,
naq hagvy fbzr nzryvbengvba vf fubja va gur gerngzrag bs gur ynoberef,
gurfr qvfbeqref jvyy or bs pbafgnag bppheerapr. V erpbzzraq yrtvfyngvba
gung funyy cynpr ynobe pbagenpgf hcba guvf naq bgure vfynaqf univat gur
eryngvba gung Aninffn unf gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf haqre gur fhcreivfvba bs n
pbheg pbzzvffvbare, naq gung funyy cebivqr ng gur rkcrafr bs gur bjaref na
bssvpre gb erfvqr hcba gur vfynaq, jvgu cbjre gb whqtr naq nqwhfg qvfchgrf
naq gb rasbepr n whfg naq uhznar gerngzrag bs gur rzcyblrrf. Vg vf
varkphfnoyr gung Nzrevpna ynoberef fubhyq or yrsg jvguva bhe bja
whevfqvpgvba jvgubhg npprff gb nal Tbireazrag bssvpre be gevohany sbe gurve
cebgrpgvba naq gur erqerff bs gurve jebatf.

Vagreangvbany pbclevtug unf orra frpherq, va nppbeqnapr jvgu gur pbaqvgvbaf
bs gur npg bs Znepu 3, 1891, jvgu Orytvhz, Senapr, Terng Oevgnva naq gur
Oevgvfu cbffrffvbaf, naq Fjvgmreynaq, gur ynjf bs gubfr pbhagevrf
crezvggvat gb bhe pvgvmraf gur orarsvg bs pbclevtug ba fhofgnagvnyyl gur
fnzr onfvf nf gb gurve bja pvgvmraf be fhowrpgf.

Jvgu Treznal n fcrpvny pbairagvba unf orra artbgvngrq hcba guvf fhowrpg
juvpu jvyy oevat gung pbhagel jvguva gur erpvcebpny orarsvgf bs bhe
yrtvfyngvba.

Gur trareny vagrerfg va gur bcrengvbaf bs gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag unf orra
zhpu nhtzragrq qhevat gur ynfg lrne ol ernfba bs gur pbasyvpgvat
cerqvpgvbaf, juvpu nppbzcnavrq naq sbyybjrq gur gnevss naq bgure
yrtvfyngvba bs gur ynfg Pbaterff nssrpgvat gur erirahrf, nf gb gur erfhygf
bs guvf yrtvfyngvba hcba gur Gernfhel naq hcba gur pbhagel. Ba gur bar unaq
vg jnf pbagraqrq gung vzcbegf jbhyq fb snyy bss nf gb yrnir gur Gernfhel
onaxehcg naq gung gur cevprf bs negvpyrf ragrevat vagb gur yvivat bs gur
crbcyr jbhyq or fb raunaprq nf gb qvfnfgebhfyl nssrpg gurve pbzsbeg naq
unccvarff, juvyr ba gur bgure vg jnf nethrq gung gur ybff gb gur erirahr,
ynetryl gur erfhyg bs cynpvat fhtne ba gur serr yvfg, jbhyq or n qverpg
tnva gb gur crbcyr; gung gur cevprf bs gur arprffnevrf bs yvsr, vapyhqvat
gubfr zbfg uvtuyl cebgrpgrq, jbhyq abg or raunaprq; gung ynobe jbhyq unir n
ynetre znexrg naq gur cebqhpgf bs gur snez nqinaprq cevprf, juvyr gur
Gernfhel fhecyhf naq erprvcgf jbhyq or nqrdhngr gb zrrg gur nccebcevngvbaf,
vapyhqvat gur ynetr rkprcgvbany rkcraqvgherf sbe gur ershaqvat gb gur
Fgngrf bs gur qverpg gnk naq gur erqrzcgvba bs gur 4 1/2 cre prag obaqf.

Vg vf abg zl checbfr gb ragre ng nal yratgu vagb n qvfphffvba bs gur
rssrpgf bs gur yrtvfyngvba gb juvpu V unir ersreerq; ohg n oevrs
rknzvangvba bs gur fgngvfgvpf bs gur Gernfhel naq n trareny tynapr ng gur
fgngr bs ohfvarff guebhtubhg gur pbhagel jvyy, V guvax, fngvfsl nal
vzcnegvny vadhvere gung vgf erfhygf unir qvfnccbvagrq gur rivy cebcurpvrf
bs vgf bccbaragf naq va n ynetr zrnfher ernyvmrq gur ubcrshy cerqvpgvbaf bs
vgf sevraqf. Eneryl, vs rire orsber, va gur uvfgbel bs gur pbhagel unf
gurer orra n gvzr jura gur cebprrqf bs bar qnl'f ynobe be gur cebqhpg bs
bar snezrq nper jbhyq chepunfr fb ynetr na nzbhag bs gubfr guvatf gung
ragre vagb gur yvivat bs gur znffrf bs gur crbcyr. V oryvrir gung n shyy
grfg jvyy qrirybc gur snpg gung gur gnevss npg bs gur Svsgl-svefg Pbaterff
vf irel snibenoyr va vgf nirentr rssrpg hcba gur cevprf bs negvpyrf
ragrevat vagb pbzzba hfr.

Qhevat gur gjryir zbaguf sebz Bpgbore 1, 1890, gb Frcgrzore 30, 1891, gur
gbgny inyhr bs bhe sbervta pbzzrepr (vzcbegf naq rkcbegf pbzovarq) jnf
$1,747,806,406, juvpu jnf gur ynetrfg bs nal lrne va gur uvfgbel bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf. Gur ynetrfg va nal cerivbhf lrne jnf va 1890, jura bhe
pbzzrepr nzbhagrq gb $1,647,139,093, naq gur ynfg lrne rkprrqf guvf
rabezbhf nttertngr ol bire bar uhaqerq zvyyvbaf. Vg vf vagrerfgvat, naq gb
fbzr jvyy or fhecevfvat, gb xabj gung qhevat gur lrne raqvat Frcgrzore 30,
1891, bhe vzcbegf bs zrepunaqvfr nzbhagrq gb $824,715,270, juvpu jnf na
vapernfr bs zber guna $11,000,000 bire gur inyhr bs gur vzcbegf bs gur
pbeerfcbaqvat zbaguf bs gur cerprqvat lrne, jura gur vzcbegf bs zrepunaqvfr
jrer hahfhnyyl ynetr va nagvpvcngvba bs gur gnevss yrtvfyngvba gura
craqvat. Gur nirentr naahny inyhr bs gur vzcbegf bs zrepunaqvfr sbe gur gra
lrnef sebz 1881 gb 1890 jnf $692,186,522, naq qhevat gur lrne raqvat
Frcgrzore 30, 1891, guvf naahny nirentr jnf rkprrqrq ol $132,528,469.

Gur inyhr bs serr vzcbegf qhevat gur gjryir zbaguf raqvat Frcgrzore 30,
1891, jnf $118,092,387 zber guna gur inyhr bs serr vzcbegf qhevat gur
pbeerfcbaqvat gjryir zbaguf bs gur cerprqvat lrne, naq gurer jnf qhevat gur
fnzr crevbq n qrpernfr bs $106,846,508 va gur inyhr bs vzcbegf bs qhgvnoyr
zrepunaqvfr. Gur crepragntr bs zrepunaqvfr nqzvggrq serr bs qhgl qhevat gur
lrne gb juvpu V unir ersreerq, gur svefg haqre gur arj gnevss, jnf 48.18,
juvyr qhevat gur cerprqvat gjryir zbaguf, haqre gur byq gnevss, gur
crepragntr jnf 34.27, na vapernfr bs 13.91 cre prag. Vs jr gnxr gur fvk
zbaguf raqvat Frcgrzore 30 ynfg, juvpu pbiref gur gvzr qhevat juvpu fhtnef
unir orra nqzvggrq serr bs qhgl, gur cre prag bs inyhr bs zrepunaqvfr
vzcbegrq serr bs qhgl vf sbhaq gb or 55.37, juvpu vf n ynetre crepragntr bs
serr vzcbegf guna qhevat nal cevbe svfpny lrne va gur uvfgbel bs gur
Tbireazrag.

Vs jr ghea gb rkcbegf bs zrepunaqvfr, gur fgngvfgvpf ner shyy bs
tengvsvpngvba. Gur inyhr bs fhpu rkcbegf bs zrepunaqvfr sbe gur gjryir
zbaguf raqvat Frcgrzore 30, 1891, jnf $923,091,136, juvyr sbe gur
pbeerfcbaqvat cerivbhf gjryir zbaguf vg jnf $860,177,115, na vapernfr bs
$62,914,021, juvpu vf arneyl guerr gvzrf gur nirentr naahny vapernfr bs
rkcbegf bs zrepunaqvfr sbe gur cerprqvat gjragl lrnef. Guvf rkprrqf va
nzbhag naq inyhr gur rkcbegf bs zrepunaqvfr qhevat nal lrne va gur uvfgbel
bs gur Tbireazrag. Gur vapernfr va gur inyhr bs rkcbegf bs ntevphygheny
cebqhpgf qhevat gur lrne ersreerq gb bire gur pbeerfcbaqvat gjryir zbaguf
bs gur cevbe lrne jnf $45,846,197, juvyr gur vapernfr va gur inyhr bs
rkcbegf bs znahsnpgherq cebqhpgf jnf $16,838,240.

Gurer vf pregnvayl abguvat va gur pbaqvgvba bs genqr, sbervta be qbzrfgvp,
gurer vf pregnvayl abguvat va gur pbaqvgvba bs bhe crbcyr bs nal pynff, gb
fhttrfg gung gur rkvfgvat gnevss naq erirahr yrtvfyngvba ornef bccerffviryl
hcba gur crbcyr be ergneqf gur pbzzrepvny qrirybczrag bs gur angvba. Vg znl
or nethrq gung bhe pbaqvgvba jbhyq or orggre vs gnevss yrtvfyngvba jrer
hcba n serr-genqr onfvf; ohg vg pna abg or qravrq gung nyy gur pbaqvgvbaf
bs cebfcrevgl naq bs trareny pbagragzrag ner cerfrag va n ynetre qrterr
guna rire orsber va bhe uvfgbel, naq gung, gbb, whfg jura vg jnf cebcurfvrq
gurl jbhyq or va gur jbefg fgngr. Ntvgngvba sbe enqvpny punatrf va gnevss
naq svanapvny yrtvfyngvba pna abg uryc ohg znl frevbhfyl vzcrqr ohfvarff,
gb gur cebfcrevgl bs juvpu fbzr qrterr bs fgnovyvgl va yrtvfyngvba vf
rffragvny.

V guvax gurer ner pbapyhfvir rivqraprf gung gur arj gnevss unf perngrq
frireny terng vaqhfgevrf, juvpu jvyy jvguva n srj lrnef tvir rzcyblzrag gb
frireny uhaqerq gubhfnaq Nzrevpna jbexvat zra naq jbzra. Va ivrj bs gur
fbzrjung birepebjqrq pbaqvgvba bs gur ynobe znexrg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
rirel cngevbgvp pvgvmra fubhyq erwbvpr ng fhpu n erfhyg.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel fubjf gung gur gbgny erprvcgf
bs gur Tbireazrag sebz nyy fbheprf sbe gur svfpny lrne raqvat Whar 30,
1891, jrer $458,544,233.03, juvyr gur rkcraqvgherf sbe gur fnzr crevbq jrer
$421,304,470.46, yrnivat n fhecyhf bs $37,239,762.57.

Gur erprvcgf bs gur svfpny lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1892, npghny naq rfgvzngrq,
ner $433,000,000 naq gur rkcraqvgherf $409,000,000. Sbe gur svfpny lrne
raqvat Whar 30, 1893, gur rfgvzngrq erprvcgf ner $455,336,350 naq gur
rkcraqvgherf $441,300,093.

Haqre gur ynj bs Whyl 14, 1890, gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel unf chepunfrq
(fvapr Nhthfg 13) qhevat gur svfpny lrne 48,393,113 bhaprf bs fvyire
ohyyvba ng na nirentr pbfg bs $1.045 cre bhapr. Gur uvturfg cevpr cnvq
qhevat gur lrne jnf $1.2025 naq gur ybjrfg $0.9636. Va rkpunatr sbe guvf
fvyire ohyyvba gurer unir orra vffhrq $50,577,498 bs gur Gernfhel abgrf
nhgubevmrq ol gur npg. Gur ybjrfg cevpr bs fvyire ernpurq qhevat gur svfpny
lrne jnf $0.9636 ba Ncevy 22, 1891; ohg ba Abirzore 1 gur znexrg cevpr jnf
bayl $0.96, juvpu jbhyq tvir gb gur fvyire qbyyne n ohyyvba inyhr bs 74 1/4
pragf.

Orsber gur vasyhrapr bs gur cebfcrpgvir fvyire yrtvfyngvba jnf sryg va gur
znexrg fvyire jnf jbegu va Arj Lbex nobhg $0.955 cre bhapr. Gur noyrfg
nqibpngrf bs serr pbvantr va gur ynfg Pbaterff jrer zbfg pbasvqrag va gurve
cerqvpgvbaf gung gur chepunfrf ol gur Tbireazrag erdhverq ol gur ynj jbhyq
ng bapr oevat gur cevpr bs fvyire gb $1.2929 cre bhapr, juvpu jbhyq znxr
gur ohyyvba inyhr bs n qbyyne 100 pragf naq ubyq vg gurer. Gur cebcurpvrf
bs gur nagvfvyire zra bs qvfnfgref gb erfhyg sebz gur pbvantr bs $2,000,000
cre zbagu jrer abg jvqre bs gur znex. Gur sevraqf bs serr fvyire ner abg
nterrq, V guvax, nf gb gur pnhfrf gung oebhtug gurve ubcrshy cerqvpgvbaf gb
anhtug. Fbzr snpgf ner xabja. Gur rkcbegf bs fvyire sebz Ybaqba gb Vaqvn
qhevat gur svefg avar zbaguf bs guvf pnyraqne lrne sryy bss bire 50 cre
prag, be $17,202,730, pbzcnerq jvgu gur fnzr zbaguf bs gur cerprqvat lrne.
Gur rkcbegf bs qbzrfgvp fvyire ohyyvba sebz guvf pbhagel, juvpu unq
nirentrq sbe gur ynfg gra lrnef bire $17,000,000, sryy va gur ynfg svfpny
lrne gb $13,797,391, juvyr sbe gur svefg gvzr va erprag lrnef gur vzcbegf
bs fvyire vagb guvf pbhagel rkprrqrq gur rkcbegf ol gur fhz bs $2,745,365.
Va gur cerivbhf lrne gur arg rkcbegf bs fvyire sebz gur Havgrq Fgngrf
nzbhagrq gb $8,545,455. Gur cebqhpgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf vapernfrq sebz
50,000,000 bhaprf va 1889 gb 54,500,000 va 1890. Gur Tbireazrag vf abj
ohlvat naq chggvat nfvqr naahnyyl 54,000,000 bhaprf, juvpu, nyybjvat sbe
7,140,000 bhaprf bs arj ohyyvba hfrq va gur negf, vf 6,640,000 zber guna
bhe qbzrfgvp cebqhpgf ninvynoyr sbe pbvantr.

V ubcr gur qrcerffvba va gur cevpr bs fvyire vf grzcbenel naq gung n
shegure gevny bs guvf yrtvfyngvba jvyy zber snibenoyl nssrpg vg. Gung gur
vapernfrq ibyhzr bs pheerapl guhf fhccyvrq sbe gur hfr bs gur crbcyr jnf
arrqrq naq gung orarsvpvny erfhygf hcba genqr naq cevprf unir sbyybjrq guvf
yrtvfyngvba V guvax zhfg or irel pyrne gb rirelbar. Abe fubhyq vg or
sbetbggra gung sbe rirel qbyyne bs gurfr abgrf vffhrq n shyy qbyyne'f jbegu
bs fvyire ohyyvba vf ng gur gvzr qrcbfvgrq va gur Gernfhel nf n frphevgl
sbe vgf erqrzcgvba. Hcba guvf fhowrpg, nf hcba gur gnevss, zl
erpbzzraqngvba vf gung gur rkvfgvat ynjf or tvira n shyy gevny naq gung bhe
ohfvarff vagrerfgf or fcnerq gur qvfgerffvat vasyhrapr juvpu guerngf bs
enqvpny punatrf nyjnlf vzcneg. Haqre rkvfgvat yrtvfyngvba vg vf va gur
cbjre bs gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag gb znvagnva gung rffragvny pbaqvgvba bs
angvbany svanapr nf jryy nf bs pbzzrepvny cebfcrevgl--gur cnevgl va hfr bs
gur pbvarq qbyynef naq gurve cncre ercerfragngvirf. Gur nffhenapr gung
gurfr cbjref jbhyq or serryl naq haurfvgngvatyl hfrq unf qbar zhpu gb
cebqhpr naq fhfgnva gur cerfrag snibenoyr ohfvarff pbaqvgvbaf.

V nz fgvyy bs gur bcvavba gung gur serr pbvantr bs fvyire haqre rkvfgvat
pbaqvgvbaf jbhyq qvfnfgebhfyl nssrpg bhe ohfvarff vagrerfgf ng ubzr naq
noebnq. Jr pbhyq abg ubcr gb znvagnva na rdhnyvgl va gur chepunfvat cbjre
bs gur tbyq naq fvyire qbyyne va bhe bja znexrgf, naq va sbervta genqr gur
fgnzc tvirf ab nqqrq inyhr gb gur ohyyvba pbagnvarq va pbvaf. Gur cebqhpref
bs gur pbhagel, vgf snezref naq ynoberef, unir gur uvturfg vagrerfg gung
rirel qbyyne, cncre be pbva, vffhrq ol gur Tbireazrag funyy or nf tbbq nf
nal bgure. Vs gurer vf bar yrff inyhnoyr guna nabgure, vgf fher naq
pbafgnag reenaq jvyy or gb cnl gurz sbe gurve gbvy naq sbe gurve pebcf. Gur
zbarl yraqre jvyy cebgrpg uvzfrys ol fgvchyngvat sbe cnlzrag va tbyq, ohg
gur ynobere unf arire orra noyr gb qb gung. Gb cynpr ohfvarff hcba n fvyire
onfvf jbhyq zrna n fhqqra naq frirer pbagenpgvba bs gur pheerapl ol gur
jvguqenjny bs tbyq naq tbyq abgrf naq fhpu na hafrggyvat bs nyy inyhrf nf
jbhyq cebqhpr n pbzzrepvny cnavp. V pna abg oryvrir gung n crbcyr fb fgebat
naq cebfcrebhf nf bhef jvyy cebzbgr fhpu n cbyvpl.

Gur cebqhpref bs fvyire ner ragvgyrq gb whfg pbafvqrengvba, ohg gurl fubhyq
abg sbetrg gung gur Tbireazrag vf abj ohlvat naq chggvat bhg bs gur znexrg
jung vf gur rdhvinyrag bs gur ragver cebqhpg bs bhe fvyire zvarf. Guvf vf
zber guna gurl gurzfryirf gubhtug bs nfxvat gjb lrnef ntb. V oryvrir vg vf
gur rnearfg qrfver bs n terng znwbevgl bs gur crbcyr, nf vg vf zvar, gung n
shyy pbva hfr funyy or znqr bs fvyire whfg nf fbba nf gur pbbcrengvba bs
bgure angvbaf pna or frpherq naq n engvb svkrq gung jvyy tvir pvephyngvba
rdhnyyl gb tbyq naq fvyire. Gur ohfvarff bs gur jbeyq erdhverf gur hfr bs
obgu zrgnyf; ohg V qb abg frr nal cebfcrpg bs tnva, ohg zhpu bs ybff, ol
tvivat hc gur cerfrag flfgrz, va juvpu n shyy hfr vf znqr bs tbyq naq n
ynetr hfr bs fvyire, sbe bar va juvpu fvyire nybar jvyy pvephyngr. Fhpu na
rirag jbhyq or ng bapr sngny gb gur shegure cebterff bs gur fvyire
zbirzrag. Ovzrgnyyvfz vf gur qrfverq raq, naq gur gehr sevraqf bs fvyire
jvyy or pnershy abg gb bireeha gur tbny naq oevat va fvyire zbabzrgnyyvfz
jvgu vgf arprffnel nggraqnagf--gur ybff bs bhe tbyq gb Rhebcr naq gur
eryvrs bs gur cerffher gurer sbe n ynetre pheerapl. V unir raqrniberq ol
gur hfr bs bssvpvny naq habssvpvny ntrapvrf gb xrrc n pybfr bofreingvba bs
gur fgngr bs choyvp fragvzrag va Rhebcr hcba guvf dhrfgvba naq unir abg
sbhaq vg gb or fhpu nf gb whfgvsl zr va cebcbfvat na vagreangvbany
pbasrerapr. Gurer vf, ubjrire, V nz fher, n tebjvat fragvzrag va Rhebcr va
snibe bs n ynetre hfr bs fvyire, naq V xabj bs ab zber rssrpghny jnl bs
cebzbgvat guvf fragvzrag guna ol npphzhyngvat tbyq urer. N fpnepvgl bs tbyq
va gur Rhebcrna erfreirf jvyy or gur zbfg crefhnfvir nethzrag sbe gur hfr
bs fvyire.

Gur rkcbegf bs tbyq gb Rhebcr, juvpu ortna va Sroehnel ynfg naq pbagvahrq
hagvy gur pybfr bs Whyl, nttertngrq bire $70,000,000. Gur arg ybff bs tbyq
qhevat gur svfpny lrne jnf arneyl $68,000,000. Gung ab frevbhf zbargnel
qvfgheonapr erfhygrq jnf zbfg tengvslvat naq tnir gb Rhebcr serfu rivqrapr
bs gur fgeratgu naq fgnovyvgl bs bhe svanapvny vafgvghgvbaf. Jvgu gur
zbirzrag bs pebcf gur bhgsybj bs tbyq jnf fcrrqvyl fgbccrq naq n erghea frg
va. Hc gb Qrprzore 1 jr unq erpbirerq bs bhe tbyq ybfg ng gur cbeg bs Arj
Lbex $27,854,000, naq vg vf pbasvqragyl oryvrirq gung qhevat gur jvagre naq
fcevat guvf nttertngr jvyy or fgrnqvyl naq ynetryl vapernfrq.

Gur cerfrapr bs n ynetr pnfu fhecyhf va gur Gernfhel unf sbe znal lrnef
orra gur fhowrpg bs zhpu hasnibenoyr pevgvpvfz, naq unf sheavfurq na
nethzrag gb gubfr jub unir qrfverq gb cynpr gur gnevss hcba n cheryl
erirahr onfvf. Vg jnf nterrq ol nyy gung gur jvguqenjny sebz pvephyngvba bs
fb ynetr na nzbhag bs zbarl jnf na rzoneenffzrag gb gur ohfvarff bs gur
pbhagel naq znqr arprffnel gur vagreiragvba bs gur Qrcnegzrag ng serdhrag
vagreinyf gb eryvrir guerngrarq zbargnel cnavpf. Gur fhecyhf ba Znepu 1,
1889, jnf $183,827,190.29. Gur cbyvpl bs nccylvat guvf fhecyhf gb gur
erqrzcgvba bs gur vagrerfg-ornevat frphevgvrf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jnf
gubhtug gb or cersrenoyr gb gung bs qrcbfvgvat vg jvgubhg vagrerfg va
fryrpgrq angvbany onaxf. Gurer unir orra erqrrzrq fvapr gur qngr ynfg
zragvbarq bs vagrerfg-ornevat frphevgvrf $259,079,350, erfhygvat va n
erqhpgvba bs gur naahny vagrerfg punetr bs $11,684,675. Gur zbarl juvpu unq
orra qrcbfvgrq va onaxf jvgubhg vagrerfg unf orra tenqhnyyl jvguqenja naq
hfrq va gur erqrzcgvba bs obaqf.

Gur erfhyg bs guvf cbyvpl, bs gur fvyire yrtvfyngvba, naq bs gur ershaqvat
bs gur 4 1/2 cre prag obaqf unf orra n ynetr vapernfr bs gur zbarl va
pvephyngvba. Ng gur qngr ynfg anzrq gur pvephyngvba jnf $1,404,205,896, be
$23.03 cre pncvgn, juvyr ba gur 1fg qnl bs Qrprzore, 1891, vg unq vapernfrq
gb $1,577,262,070, be $24.38 cre pncvgn. Gur bssre bs gur Frpergnel bs gur
Gernfhel gb gur ubyqref bs gur 4 1/2 cre prag obaqf gb rkgraq gur gvzr bs
erqrzcgvba, ng gur bcgvba bs gur Tbireazrag, ng na vagrerfg bs 2 cre prag,
jnf npprcgrq ol gur ubyqref bs nobhg bar-unys gur nzbhag, naq gur
harkgraqrq obaqf ner orvat erqrrzrq ba cerfragngvba.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne rkuvovgf gur erfhygf bs na vagryyvtrag,
cebterffvir, naq ohfvarffyvxr nqzvavfgengvba bs n Qrcnegzrag juvpu unf orra
gbb zhpu ertneqrq nf bar bs zrer ebhgvar. Gur frcnengvba bs Frpergnel
Cebpgbe sebz gur Qrcnegzrag ol ernfba bs uvf nccbvagzrag nf n Frangbe sebz
gur Fgngr bs Irezbag vf n fbhepr bs terng erterg gb zr naq gb uvf
pbyyrnthrf va gur Pnovarg, nf V nz fher vg jvyy or gb nyy gubfr jub unir
unq ohfvarff jvgu gur Qrcnegzrag juvyr haqre uvf punetr.

Va gur nqzvavfgengvba bs nezl nssnvef fbzr rfcrpvnyyl tbbq jbex unf orra
nppbzcyvfurq. Gur rssbegf bs gur Frpergnel gb erqhpr gur crepragntr bs
qrfregvbaf ol erzbivat gur pnhfrf gung cebzbgrq vg unir orra fb fhpprffshy
nf gb ranoyr uvz gb ercbeg sbe gur ynfg lrne n ybjre crepragntr bs
qrfregvba guna unf orra orsber ernpurq va gur uvfgbel bs gur Nezl. Gur
erfhygvat zbarl fnivat vf pbafvqrenoyr, ohg gur vzcebirzrag va gur zbenyr
bs gur rayvfgrq zra vf gur zbfg inyhnoyr vapvqrag bs gur ersbezf juvpu unir
oebhtug nobhg guvf erfhyg.

Gur jbex bs frphevat fvgrf sbe fuber onggrevrf sbe uneobe qrsrafr naq gur
znahsnpgher bs zbegnef naq thaf bs uvtu cbjre gb rdhvc gurz unir znqr tbbq
cebterff qhevat gur lrne. Gur ceryvzvanel jbex bs grfgf naq cynaf juvpu fb
ybat qrynlrq n fgneg vf abj bhg bs gur jnl. Fbzr thaf unir orra pbzcyrgrq,
naq jvgu na raynetrq fubc naq n zber pbzcyrgr rdhvczrag ng Jngreiyvrg gur
Nezl jvyy fbba or noernfg bs gur Anil va tha pbafgehpgvba. Jungrire
hanibvqnoyr pnhfrf bs qrynl znl nevfr, gurer fubhyq or abar sebz qrynlrq be
vafhssvpvrag nccebcevngvbaf. Jr funyy or terngyl rzoneenffrq va gur cebcre
qvfgevohgvba naq hfr bs aniny irffryf hagvy nqrdhngr fuber qrsrafrf ner
cebivqrq sbe bhe uneobef.

V pbaphe va gur erpbzzraqngvba bs gur Frpergnel gung gur guerr-onggnyvba
betnavmngvba or nqbcgrq sbe gur vasnagel. Gur nqbcgvba bs n fzbxryrff
cbjqre naq bs n zbqrea evsyr rdhny va enatr, cerpvfvba, naq encvqvgl bs
sver gb gur orfg abj va hfr jvyy, V ubcr, abg or ybatre qrynlrq.

Gur cebwrpg bs rayvfgvat Vaqvnaf naq betnavmvat gurz vagb frcnengr
pbzcnavrf hcba gur fnzr onfvf nf bgure fbyqvref jnf znqr gur fhowrpg bs
irel pnershy fghql ol gur Frpergnel naq erprvirq zl nccebiny. Frira
pbzcnavrf unir orra pbzcyrgryl betnavmrq naq frira zber ner va cebprff bs
betnavmngvba. Gur erfhygf bs fvk zbaguf' genvavat unir zber guna ernyvmrq
gur uvturfg nagvpvcngvbaf. Gur zra ner ernqvyl oebhtug haqre qvfpvcyvar,
npdhver gur qevyy jvgu snpvyvgl, naq fubj terng cevqr va gur evtug
qvfpunetr bs gurve qhgl naq cresrpg yblnygl gb gurve bssvpref, jub qrpyner
gung gurl jbhyq gnxr gurz vagb npgvba jvgu pbasvqrapr. Gur qvfpvcyvar,
beqre, naq pyrnayvarff bs gur zvyvgnel cbfgf jvyy unir n jubyrfbzr naq
ryringvat vasyhrapr hcba gur zra rayvfgrq, naq guebhtu gurz hcba gurve
gevorf, juvyr n sevraqyl srryvat sbe gur juvgrf naq n terngre erfcrpg sbe
gur Tbireazrag jvyy pregnvayl or cebzbgrq.

Gur terng jbex qbar va gur Erpbeq naq Crafvba Qvivfvba bs gur Jne
Qrcnegzrag ol Znwbe Nvafjbegu, bs gur Zrqvpny Pbecf, naq gur pyrexf haqre
uvz vf ragvgyrq gb ubabenoyr zragvba. Gnxvat hc gur jbex jvgu arneyl 41,000
pnfrf oruvaq, ur pybfrq gur ynfg svfpny lrne jvgubhg n fvatyr pnfr yrsg
bire, gubhtu gur arj pnfrf unq vapernfrq 52 cre prag va ahzore bire gur
cerivbhf lrne ol ernfba bs gur crafvba yrtvfyngvba bs gur ynfg Pbaterff.

V pbaphe va gur erpbzzraqngvba bs gur Nggbearl-Trareny gung gur evtug va
srybal pnfrf gb n erivrj ol gur Fhcerzr pbheg or yvzvgrq. Vg jbhyq frrz
gung crefbany yvoregl jbhyq unir n fnsr thnenagl vs gur evtug bs erivrj va
pnfrf vaibyivat bayl svar naq vzcevfbazrag jrer yvzvgrq gb gur pvephvg
pbheg bs nccrnyf, hayrff n pbafgvghgvbany dhrfgvba fubhyq va fbzr jnl or
vaibyirq.

Gur whqtrf bs gur Pbheg bs Cevingr Ynaq Pynvzf, cebivqrq sbe ol gur npg bs
Znepu 3, 1891, unir orra nccbvagrq naq gur pbheg betnavmrq. Vg vf abj
cbffvoyr gb tvir rneyl eryvrs gb pbzzhavgvrf ybat ercerffrq va gurve
qrirybczrag ol hafrggyrq ynaq gvgyrf naq gb rfgnoyvfu gur cbffrffvba naq
evtug bs frggyref jubfr ynaqf unir orra eraqrerq inyhryrff ol nqirefr naq
hasbhaqrq pynvzf.

Gur npg bs Whyl 9, 1888, cebivqrq sbe gur vapbecbengvba naq znantrzrag bs n
ersbez fpubby sbe tveyf va gur Qvfgevpg bs Pbyhzovn; ohg vg unf erznvarq
vabcrengvir sbe gur ernfba gung ab nccebcevngvba unf orra znqr sbe
pbafgehpgvba be znvagranapr. Gur arrq bs fhpu na vafgvghgvba vf irel
hetrag. Znal tveyf pbhyq or fnirq sebz qrcenirq yvirf ol gur jubyrfbzr
vasyhraprf naq erfgenvagf bs fhpu n fpubby. V erpbzzraq gung gur arprffnel
nccebcevngvba or znqr sbe n fvgr naq sbe pbafgehpgvba.

Gur rasbeprzrag ol gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag bs gur ynj cebuvovgvat gur
pbzvat bs Puvarfr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf orra rssrpgvir nf gb fhpu nf
frrx gb ynaq sebz irffryf ragrevat bhe cbegf. Gur erfhyg unf orra gb qvireg
gur geniry gb irffryf ragrevat gur cbegf bs Oevgvfu Pbyhzovn, jurapr
cnffntr vagb gur Havgrq Fgngrf ng bofpher cbvagf nybat gur Qbzvavba
obhaqnel vf rnfl. N irel pbafvqrenoyr ahzore bs Puvarfr ynoberef unir
qhevat gur cnfg lrne ragrerq gur Havgrq Fgngrf sebz Pnanqn naq Zrkvpb.

Gur bssvpref bs gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag naq bs gur Qrcnegzrag bs Whfgvpr
unir hfrq rirel zrnaf ng gurve pbzznaq gb vagreprcg guvf vzzvtengvba; ohg
gur vzcbffvovyvgl bs cresrpgyl thneqvat bhe rkgraqrq sebagvre vf nccnerag.
Gur Qbzvavba tbireazrag pbyyrpgf n urnq gnk bs $50 sebz rirel Puvanzna
ragrevat Pnanqn, naq guhf qrevirf n pbafvqrenoyr erirahr sebz gubfr jub
bayl hfr vgf cbegf gb ernpu n cbfvgvba bs nqinagntr gb rinqr bhe rkpyhfvba
ynjf. Gurer frrzf gb or fngvfsnpgbel rivqrapr gung gur ohfvarff bs cnffvat
Puvanzra guebhtu Pnanqn gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf betnavmrq naq dhvgr npgvir.
Gur Qrcnegzrag bs Whfgvpr unf pbafgehrq gur ynjf gb erdhver gur erghea bs
nal Puvanzna sbhaq gb or haynjshyyl va guvf pbhagel gb Puvan nf gur pbhagel
sebz juvpu ur pnzr, abgjvgufgnaqvat gur snpg gung ur pnzr ol jnl bs Pnanqn;
ohg frireny bs gur qvfgevpg pbhegf unir va pnfrf oebhtug orsber gurz
bireehyrq guvf ivrj bs gur ynj naq qrpvqrq gung fhpu crefbaf zhfg or
erghearq gb Pnanqn. Guvf pbafgehpgvba ebof gur ynj bs nyy rssrpgvirarff,
rira vs gur qrperrf pbhyq or rkrphgrq, sbe gur zra erghearq pna gur arkg
qnl erpebff bhe obeqre. Ohg gur bayl nccebcevngvba znqr vf sbe fraqvat gurz
onpx gb Puvan, naq gur Pnanqvna bssvpvnyf ershfr gb nyybj gurz gb erragre
Pnanqn jvgubhg gur cnlzrag bs gur svsgl-qbyyne urnq gnk. V erpbzzraq fhpu
yrtvfyngvba nf jvyy erzrql gurfr qrsrpgf va gur ynj.

Va cerivbhf zrffntrf V unir pnyyrq gur nggragvba bs Pbaterff gb gur
arprffvgl bs fb rkgraqvat gur whevfqvpgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf pbhegf nf
gb znxr gevnoyr gurerva nal srybal pbzzvggrq juvyr va gur npg bs ivbyngvat
n ynj bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gurfr pbhegf pna abg unir gung vaqrcraqrapr naq
rssrpgvirarff juvpu gur Pbafgvghgvba pbagrzcyngrf fb ybat nf gur srybavbhf
xvyyvat bs pbheg bssvpref, whebef, naq jvgarffrf va gur qvfpunetr bs gurve
qhgvrf be ol ernfba bs gurve npgf nf fhpu vf bayl pbtavmnoyr va gur Fgngr
pbhegf. Gur jbex qbar ol gur Nggbearl-Trareny naq gur bssvpref bs uvf
Qrcnegzrag, rira haqre gur cerfrag vanqrdhngr yrtvfyngvba, unf cebqhprq
fbzr abgnoyr erfhygf va gur vagrerfg bs ynj naq beqre.

Gur Nggbearl-Trareny naq nyfb gur Pbzzvffvbaref bs gur Qvfgevpg bs Pbyhzovn
pnyy nggragvba gb gur qrsrpgvirarff naq vanqrdhnpl bs gur ynjf eryngvat gb
pevzrf ntnvafg punfgvgl va gur Qvfgevpg bs Pbyhzovn. N fgevatrag pbqr hcba
guvf fhowrpg unf orra cebivqrq ol Pbaterff sbe Hgnu, naq vg vf n znggre bs
fhecevfr gung gur arrqf bs guvf Qvfgevpg fubhyq unir orra fb ybat
bireybbxrq.

Va gur ercbeg bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny fbzr irel tengvslvat erfhygf ner
rkuvovgrq naq znal orggrezragf bs gur freivpr fhttrfgrq. N crehfny bs gur
ercbeg tvirf nohaqnag rivqrapr gung gur fhcreivfvba naq qverpgvba bs gur
cbfgny flfgrz unir orra punenpgrevmrq ol na vagryyvtrag naq pbafpvragvbhf
qrfver gb vzcebir gur freivpr. Gur erirahrf bs gur Qrcnegzrag fubj na
vapernfr bs bire $5,000,000, jvgu n qrsvpvrapl sbe gur lrne 1892 bs yrff
guna $4,000,000, juvyr gur rfgvzngr sbe gur lrne 1893 fubjf n fhecyhf bs
erprvcgf bire rkcraqvgherf.

Bprna znvy cbfg-bssvprf unir orra rfgnoyvfurq hcba gur fgrnzref bs gur
Abegu Trezna Yyblq naq Unzohet yvarf, fnivat ol gur qvfgevohgvba ba
fuvcobneq sebz gjb gb sbhegrra ubhef' gvzr va gur qryvirel bs znvy ng gur
cbeg bs ragel naq bsgra zhpu zber guna guvf va gur qryvirel ng vagrevbe
cynprf. Fb gubebhtuyl unf guvf flfgrz, vavgvngrq ol Treznal naq gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, rivqraprq vgf hfrshyarff gung vg pna abg or ybat orsber vg vf
vafgnyyrq hcba nyy gur terng bprna znvy-pneelvat fgrnzfuvcf.

Rvtug gubhfnaq zvyrf bs arj cbfgny freivpr unf orra rfgnoyvfurq hcba
envyebnqf, gur pne qvfgevohgvba gb fhofgngvbaf va gur terng pvgvrf unf orra
vapernfrq nobhg 12 cre prag, juvyr gur crepragntr bs reebef va qvfgevohgvba
unf qhevat gur cnfg lrne orra erqhprq bire bar-unys. Na nccebcevngvba jnf
tvira ol gur ynfg Pbaterff sbe gur checbfr bs znxvat fbzr rkcrevzragf va
serr qryvirel va gur fznyyre pvgvrf naq gbjaf. Gur erfhygf bs gurfr
rkcrevzragf unir orra fb fngvfsnpgbel gung gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny
erpbzzraqf, naq V pbaphe va gur erpbzzraqngvba, gung gur serr-qryvirel
flfgrz or ng bapr rkgraqrq gb gbjaf bs 5,000 cbchyngvba. Uvf qvfphffvba bs
gur vanqrdhngr snpvyvgvrf rkgraqrq haqre bhe cerfrag flfgrz gb eheny
pbzzhavgvrf naq uvf fhttrfgvbaf jvgu n ivrj gb tvir gurfr pbzzhavgvrf n
shyyre cnegvpvcngvba va gur orarsvgf bs gur cbfgny freivpr ner jbegul bs
lbhe pnershy pbafvqrengvba. Vg vf abg whfg gung gur snezre, jub erprvirf
uvf znvy ng n arvtuobevat gbja, fubhyq abg bayl or pbzcryyrq gb fraq gb gur
cbfg-bssvpr sbe vg, ohg gb cnl n pbafvqrenoyr erag sbe n obk va juvpu gb
cynpr vg be gb jnvg uvf ghea ng n trareny-qryvirel jvaqbj, juvyr gur pvgl
erfvqrag unf uvf znvy oebhtug gb uvf qbbe. Vg vf fgngrq gung bire 54,000
arvtuobeubbqf ner haqre gur cerfrag flfgrz erprvivat znvy ng cbfg-bssvprf
jurer zbarl beqref naq cbfgny abgrf ner abg vffhrq. Gur rkgrafvba bs guvf
flfgrz gb gurfr pbzzhavgvrf vf rfcrpvnyyl qrfvenoyr, nf gur cngebaf bs fhpu
bssvprf ner abg cbffrffrq bs gur bgure snpvyvgvrf bssrerq va zber cbchybhf
pbzzhavgvrf sbe gur genafzvffvba bs fznyy fhzf bs zbarl.

V unir va n zrffntr gb gur cerprqvat Pbaterff rkcerffrq zl ivrjf nf gb n
zbqvsvrq hfr bs gur gryrtencu va pbaarpgvba jvgu gur cbfgny freivpr. Va
chefhnapr bs gur bprna znvy ynj bs Znepu 3, 1891, naq nsgre n zbfg pnershy
fghql bs gur jubyr fhowrpg naq serdhrag pbasreraprf jvgu fuvc-bjaref,
obneqf bs genqr, naq bguref, nqiregvfrzragf jrer vffhrq ol gur
cbfgznfgre-Trareny sbe 53 yvarf bs bprna znvy freivpr--10 gb Terng Oevgnva
naq gur Pbagvarag, 27 gb Fbhgu Nzrevpn, 3 gb Puvan naq Wncna, 4 gb
Nhfgenyvn naq gur Cnpvsvp vfynaqf, 7 gb gur Jrfg Vaqvrf, naq 2 gb Zrkvpb.
Vg jnf abg, bs pbhefr, rkcrpgrq gung ovqf sbe nyy gurfr yvarf jbhyq or
erprvirq be gung freivpr hcba gurz nyy jbhyq or pbagenpgrq sbe. Vg jnf
vagraqrq, va shegurenapr bs gur npg, gb frpher nf znal arj yvarf nf
cbffvoyr, juvyr vapyhqvat va gur yvfg zbfg be nyy bs gur sbervta yvarf abj
bpphcvrq ol Nzrevpna fuvcf. Vg jnf ubcrq gung n yvar gb Ratynaq naq creuncf
bar gb gur Pbagvarag jbhyq or frpherq; ohg gur bhgynl erdhverq gb rdhvc
fhpu yvarf jubyyl jvgu arj fuvcf bs gur svefg pynff naq gur qvssvphygl bs
rfgnoyvfuvat arj yvarf va pbzcrgvgvba jvgu gubfr nyernql rfgnoyvfurq
qrgreerq ovqqref jubfr vagrerfg unq orra rayvfgrq. Vg vf ubcrq gung n jnl
znl lrg or sbhaq bs birepbzvat gurfr qvssvphygvrf.

Gur Oenmvy Fgrnzfuvc Pbzcnal, ol ernfba bs n zvfpnyphyngvba nf gb gur fcrrq
bs vgf irffryf, jnf abg noyr gb ovq haqre gur grezf bs gur nqiregvfrzrag.
Gur cbyvpl bs gur Qrcnegzrag jnf gb frpher sebz gur rfgnoyvfurq yvarf na
vzcebirq freivpr nf n pbaqvgvba bs tvivat gb gurz gur orarsvgf bs gur ynj.
Guvf va nyy vafgnaprf unf orra nggnvarq. Gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny rfgvzngrf
gung na rkcraqvgher va Nzrevpna fuvclneqf bs nobhg $10,000,000 jvyy or
arprffnel gb ranoyr gur ovqqref gb pbafgehpg gur fuvcf pnyyrq sbe ol gur
freivpr juvpu gurl unir npprcgrq. V qb abg guvax gurer vf nal ernfba sbe
qvfpbhentrzrag be sbe nal gheavat onpx sebz gur cbyvpl bs guvf yrtvfyngvba.
Vaqrrq, n tbbq ortvaavat unf orra znqr, naq nf gur fhowrpg vf shegure
pbafvqrerq naq haqrefgbbq ol pncvgnyvfgf naq fuvccvat crbcyr arj yvarf jvyy
or ernql gb zrrg shgher cebcbfnyf, naq jr znl qngr sebz gur cnffntr bs guvf
ynj gur eriviny bs Nzrevpna fuvccvat vagrerfgf naq gur erpbirel bs n snve
funer bs gur pneelvat genqr bs gur jbeyq. Jr jrer erprvivat sbe sbervta
cbfgntr arneyl $2,000,000 haqre gur byq flfgrz, naq gur bhgynl sbe bprna
znvy freivpr qvq abg rkprrq $600,000 cre naahz. Vg vf rfgvzngrq ol gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trareny gung vs nyy gur pbagenpgf cebcbfrq ner pbzcyrgrq vg jvyy
erdhver $247,354 sbe guvf lrne va nqqvgvba gb gur nccebcevngvba sbe frn naq
vaynaq cbfgntr nyernql va gur rfgvzngrf, naq gung sbe gur arkg svfpny lrne,
raqvat Whar 30, 1893, gurer jbhyq cebonoyl or arrqrq nobhg $560,000.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil fubjf n tengvslvat vapernfr bs arj
aniny irffryf va pbzzvffvba. Gur Arjnex, Pbapbeq, Oraavatgba, naq
Zvnagbabzbu unir orra nqqrq qhevat gur lrne, jvgu na nttertngr bs fbzrguvat
zber guna 11,000 gbaf. Gjragl-sbhe jnefuvcf bs nyy pynffrf ner abj haqre
pbafgehpgvba va gur anil-lneqf naq cevingr fubcf; ohg juvyr gur jbex hcba
gurz vf tbvat sbejneq fngvfsnpgbevyl, gur pbzcyrgvba bs gur zber vzcbegnag
irffryf jvyy lrg erdhver nobhg n lrne'f gvzr. Fbzr bs gur irffryf abj
haqre pbafgehpgvba, vg vf oryvrirq, jvyy or gevhzcuf bs aniny ratvarrevat.
Jura vg vf erpbyyrpgrq gung gur jbex bs ohvyqvat n zbqrea anil jnf bayl
vavgvngrq va gur lrne 1883, gung bhe aniny pbafgehpgbef naq fuvcohvyqref
jrer cenpgvpnyyl jvgubhg rkcrevrapr va gur pbafgehpgvba bs ynetr veba be
fgrry fuvcf, gung bhe ratvar fubcf jrer hasnzvyvne jvgu terng znevar
ratvarf, naq gung gur znahsnpgher bs fgrry sbetvatf sbe thaf naq cyngrf jnf
nyzbfg jubyyl n sbervta vaqhfgel, gur cebterff gung unf orra znqr vf abg
bayl uvtuyl fngvfsnpgbel, ohg sheavfurf gur nffhenapr gung gur Havgrq
Fgngrf jvyy orsber ybat nggnva va gur pbafgehpgvba bs fhpu irffryf, jvgu
gurve ratvarf naq neznzragf, gur fnzr cerrzvarapr juvpu vg nggnvarq jura
gur orfg vafgehzrag bs bprna pbzzrepr jnf gur pyvccre fuvc naq gur zbfg
vzcerffvir rkuvovg bs aniny cbjre gur byq jbbqra guerr-qrpxre zna-bs-jne.
Gur bssvpref bs gur Anil naq gur cebcevrgbef naq ratvarref bs bhe terng
cevingr fubcf unir erfcbaqrq jvgu jbaqreshy vagryyvtrapr naq cebsrffvbany
mrny gb gur pbasvqrapr rkcerffrq ol Pbaterff va vgf yvoreny yrtvfyngvba. Jr
unir abj ng Jnfuvatgba n tha fubc, betnavmrq naq pbaqhpgrq ol aniny
bssvpref, gung va vgf flfgrz, rpbabzl, naq cebqhpg vf harkpryyrq.
Rkcrevzragf jvgu nezbe cyngr unir orra pbaqhpgrq qhevat gur lrne jvgu zbfg
vzcbegnag erfhygf. Vg vf abj oryvrirq gung n cyngr bs uvture erfvfgvat
cbjre guna nal va hfr unf orra sbhaq naq gung gur grfgf unir qrzbafgengrq
gung purncre zrgubqf bs znahsnpgher guna gubfr urergbsber gubhtug arprffnel
pna or hfrq.

V pbzzraq gb lbhe snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba gur erpbzzraqngvbaf bs gur
Frpergnel, jub unf, V nz fher, tvira gb gurz gur zbfg pbafpvragvbhf fghql.
Gurer fubhyq or ab urfvgngvba va cebzcgyl pbzcyrgvat n anil bs gur orfg
zbqrea glcr ynetr rabhtu gb ranoyr guvf pbhagel gb qvfcynl vgf synt va nyy
frnf sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs vgf pvgvmraf naq bs vgf rkgraqvat pbzzrepr. Gur
jbeyq arrqf ab nffhenapr bs gur crnprshy checbfrf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ohg
jr funyy cebonoyl or va gur shgher zber ynetryl n pbzcrgvgbe va gur
pbzzrepr bs gur jbeyq, naq vg vf rffragvny gb gur qvtavgl bs guvf angvba
naq gb gung crnprshy vasyhrapr juvpu vg fubhyq rkrepvfr ba guvf urzvfcurer
gung vgf Anil fubhyq or nqrdhngr obgu hcba gur fuberf bs gur Ngynagvp naq
bs gur Cnpvsvp.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe fubjf gung n irel tengvslvat
cebterff unf orra znqr va nyy bs gur ohernhf juvpu znxr hc gung pbzcyrk naq
qvssvphyg Qrcnegzrag.

Gur jbex va gur Ohernh bs Vaqvna Nssnvef jnf creuncf arire fb ynetr nf abj,
ol ernfba bs gur ahzrebhf artbgvngvbaf juvpu unir orra cebprrqvat jvgu gur
gevorf sbe n erqhpgvba bs gur erfreingvbaf, jvgu gur vapvqrag ynobe bs
znxvat nyybgzragf, naq jnf arire zber pnershyyl pbaqhpgrq. Gur cebivfvba bs
nqrdhngr fpubby snpvyvgvrf sbe Vaqvna puvyqera naq gur ybpngvat bs nqhyg
Vaqvnaf hcba snezf vaibyir gur fbyhgvba bs gur "Vaqvna dhrfgvba."
Rirelguvat ryfr--engvbaf, naahvgvrf, naq gevony artbgvngvbaf, jvgu gur
ntragf, vafcrpgbef, naq pbzzvffvbaref jub qvfgevohgr naq pbaqhpg gurz--zhfg
cnff njnl jura gur Vaqvna unf orpbzr n pvgvmra, frpher va gur vaqvivqhny
bjarefuvc bs n snez sebz juvpu ur qrevirf uvf fhofvfgrapr ol uvf bja ynobe,
cebgrpgrq ol naq fhobeqvangr gb gur ynjf juvpu tbirea gur juvgr zna, naq
cebivqrq ol gur Trareny Tbireazrag be ol gur ybpny pbzzhavgvrf va juvpu ur
yvirf jvgu gur zrnaf bs rqhpngvat uvf puvyqera. Jura na Vaqvna orpbzrf n
pvgvmra va na betnavmrq Fgngr be Greevgbel, uvf eryngvba gb gur Trareny
Tbireazrag prnfrf va terng zrnfher gb or gung bs n jneq; ohg gur Trareny
Tbireazrag bhtug abg ng bapr gb chg hcba gur Fgngr be Greevgbel gur oheqra
bs gur rqhpngvba bs uvf puvyqera.

Vg unf orra zl gubhtug gung gur Tbireazrag fpubbyf naq fpubby ohvyqvatf
hcba gur erfreingvbaf jbhyq or nofbeorq ol gur fpubby flfgrzf bs gur Fgngrf
naq Greevgbevrf; ohg nf vg unf orra sbhaq arprffnel gb cebgrpg gur Vaqvna
ntnvafg gur pbzchyfbel nyvrangvba bs uvf ynaq ol rkrzcgvat uvz sebz
gnkngvba sbe n crevbq bs gjragl-svir lrnef, vg jbhyq frrz gb or evtug gung
gur Trareny Tbireazrag, pregnvayl jurer gurer ner gevony shaqf va vgf
cbffrffvba, fubhyq cnl gb gur fpubby shaq bs gur Fgngr jung jbhyq or
rdhvinyrag gb gur ybpny fpubby gnk hcba gur cebcregl bs gur Vaqvna. Vg jvyy
or abgvprq sebz gur ercbeg bs gur Pbzzvffvbare bs Vaqvna Nssnvef gung
nyernql fbzr pbagenpgf unir orra znqr jvgu qvfgevpg fpubbyf sbe gur
rqhpngvba bs Vaqvna puvyqera. Gurer vf terng nqinagntr, V guvax, va
oevatvat gur Vaqvna puvyqera vagb zvkrq fpubbyf. Guvf cebprff jvyy or
tenqhny, naq va gur zrnagvzr gur cerfrag rqhpngvbany cebivfvbaf naq
neenatrzragf, gur erfhyg bs gur orfg rkcrevrapr bs gubfr jub unir orra
punetrq jvgu guvf jbex, fubhyq or pbagvahrq. Guvf jvyy ranoyr gubfr
eryvtvbhf obqvrf gung unir haqregnxra gur jbex bs Vaqvna rqhpngvba jvgu fb
zhpu mrny naq jvgu erfhygf fb erfgenvavat naq orarsvprag gb cynpr gurve
vafgvghgvbaf va arj naq hfrshy eryngvbaf gb gur Vaqvna naq gb uvf juvgr
arvtuobef.

Gur bhgoernx nzbat gur Fvbhk juvpu bppheerq va Qrprzore ynfg vf nf gb vgf
pnhfrf naq vapvqragf shyyl ercbegrq hcba ol gur Jne Qrcnegzrag naq gur
Qrcnegzrag bs gur Vagrevbe. Gung gurfr Vaqvnaf unq fbzr whfg pbzcynvagf,
rfcrpvnyyl va gur znggre bs gur erqhpgvba bs gur nccebcevngvba sbe engvbaf
naq va gur qrynlf nggraqvat gur ranpgzrag bs ynjf gb ranoyr gur Qrcnegzrag
gb cresbez gur ratntrzragf ragrerq vagb jvgu gurz, vf cebonoyl gehr; ohg
gur Fvbhk gevorf ner anghenyyl jneyvxr naq gheohyrag, naq gurve jneevbef
jrer rkpvgrq ol gurve zrqvpvar zra naq puvrsf, jub cernpurq gur pbzvat bs
na Vaqvna zrffvnu jub jnf gb tvir gurz cbjre gb qrfgebl gurve rarzvrf. Va
ivrj bs gur nynez gung cerinvyrq nzbat gur juvgr frggyref arne gur
erfreingvba naq bs gur sngny pbafrdhraprf gung jbhyq unir erfhygrq sebz na
Vaqvna vaphefvba, V cynprq ng gur qvfcbfny bs Trareny Zvyrf, pbzznaqvat gur
Qvivfvba bs gur Zvffbhev, nyy fhpu sbeprf nf jrer gubhtug ol uvz gb or
erdhverq. Ur vf ragvgyrq gb gur perqvg bs univat tvira gubebhtu cebgrpgvba
gb gur frggyref naq bs oevatvat gur ubfgvyrf vagb fhowrpgvba jvgu gur yrnfg
cbffvoyr ybff bs yvsr.

Gur nccebcevngvba bs $2,991,450 sbe gur Pubpgnjf naq Puvpxnfnjf pbagnvarq
va gur trareny Vaqvna nccebcevngvba ovyy bs Znepu 3, 1891, unf abg orra
rkcraqrq, sbe gur ernfba gung V unir abg lrg nccebirq n eryrnfr (gb gur
Tbireazrag) bs gur Vaqvna pynvz gb gur ynaqf zragvbarq. Guvf znggre jvyy or
znqr gur fhowrpg bs n fcrpvny zrffntr, cynpvat orsber Pbaterff nyy gur
snpgf juvpu unir pbzr gb zl xabjyrqtr.

Gur eryngvba bs gur Svir Pvivyvmrq Gevorf abj bpphclvat gur Vaqvna
Greevgbel gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf abg, V oryvrir, gung orfg pnyphyngrq gb
cebzbgr gur uvturfg nqinaprzrag bs gurfr Vaqvnaf. Gung gurer fubhyq or
jvguva bhe obeqref svir vaqrcraqrag fgngrf univat ab eryngvbaf, rkprcg
gubfr tebjvat bhg bs gerngvrf, jvgu gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ab
ercerfragngvba va gur Angvbany Yrtvfyngher, vgf crbcyr abg pvgvmraf, vf n
fgnegyvat nabznyl.

Vg frrzf gb zr gb or varivgnoyr gung gurer funyy or orsber ybat fbzr
betnavp punatrf va gur eryngvba bs gurfr crbcyr gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Jung
sbez gurfr punatrf fubhyq gnxr V qb abg guvax vg qrfvenoyr abj gb fhttrfg,
rira vs gurl jrer jryy qrsvarq va zl bja zvaq. Gurl fubhyq pregnvayl
vaibyir gur npprcgnapr bs pvgvmrafuvc ol gur Vaqvnaf naq n ercerfragngvba
va Pbaterff. Gurfr Vaqvnaf fubhyq unir bccbeghavgl gb cerfrag gurve pynvzf
naq tevrinaprf hcba gur sybbe engure guna, nf abj, va gur ybool. Vs n
pbzzvffvba pbhyq or nccbvagrq gb ivfvg gurfr gevorf gb pbasre jvgu gurz va
n sevraqyl fcvevg hcba guvf jubyr fhowrpg, rira vs ab nterrzrag jrer
cerfragyl ernpurq gur srryvat bs gur gevorf hcba guvf dhrfgvba jbhyq or
qrirybcrq, naq qvfphffvba jbhyq cercner gur jnl sbe punatrf juvpu zhfg pbzr
fbbare be yngre.

Gur tbbq jbex bs erqhpvat gur ynetre Vaqvna erfreingvbaf ol nyybgzragf va
frirenygl gb gur Vaqvnaf naq gur prffvba bs gur erznvavat ynaqf gb gur
Havgrq Fgngrf sbe qvfcbfvgvba haqre gur ubzrfgrnq ynj unf orra cebfrphgrq
qhevat gur lrne jvgu raretl naq fhpprff. Va Frcgrzore ynfg V jnf ranoyrq gb
bcra gb frggyrzrag va gur Greevgbel bs Bxynubzn 900,000 nperf bs ynaq, nyy
bs juvpu jnf gnxra hc ol frggyref va n fvatyr qnl. Gur ehfu sbe gurfr ynaqf
jnf nppbzcnavrq ol n terng qrny bs rkpvgrzrag, ohg jnf unccvyl serr sebz
vapvqragf bs ivbyrapr.

Vg jnf n fbhepr bs terng erterg gung V jnf abg noyr gb bcra ng gur fnzr
gvzr gur fhecyhf ynaqf bs gur Purlraar naq Nencnubr Erfreingvba, nzbhagvat
gb nobhg 3,000,000 nperf, ol ernfba bs gur vafhssvpvrapl bs gur
nccebcevngvba sbe znxvat gur nyybgzragf. Qrfreivat naq vzcngvrag frggyref
ner jnvgvat gb bpphcl gurfr ynaqf, naq V hetragyl erpbzzraq gung n fcrpvny
qrsvpvrapl nccebcevngvba or cebzcgyl znqr bs gur fznyy nzbhag arrqrq, fb
gung gur nyybgzragf znl or pbzcyrgrq naq gur fhecyhf ynaqf bcrarq va gvzr
gb crezvg gur frggyref gb trg hcba gurve ubzrfgrnqf va gur rneyl fcevat.

Qhevat gur cnfg fhzzre gur Purebxrr Pbzzvffvba unir pbzcyrgrq neenatrzragf
jvgu gur Jvpuvgn, Xvpxncbb, naq Gbaxnjn gevorf jurerol, vs gur nterrzragf
ner engvsvrq ol Pbaterff, bire 800,000 nqqvgvbany nperf jvyy or bcrarq gb
frggyrzrag va Bxynubzn.

Gur artbgvngvbaf sbe gur eryrnfr ol gur Purebxrrf bs gurve pynvz gb gur
Purebxrr Fgevc unir znqr ab fhofgnagvny cebterff fb sne nf gur Qrcnegzrag
vf bssvpvnyyl nqivfrq, ohg vg vf fgvyy ubcrq gung gur prffvba bs guvf ynetr
naq inyhnoyr genpg znl or frpherq. Gur cevpr juvpu gur pbzzvffvba jnf
nhgubevmrq gb bssre--$1.25 cre nper--vf, va zl whqtzrag, jura nyy gur
pvephzfgnaprf nf gb gvgyr naq gur punenpgre bs gur ynaqf ner pbafvqrerq, n
snve naq nqrdhngr bar, naq fubhyq unir orra npprcgrq ol gur Vaqvnaf.

Fvapr Znepu 4, 1889, nobhg 23,000,000 nperf unir orra frcnengrq sebz Vaqvna
erfreingvbaf naq nqqrq gb gur choyvp qbznva sbe gur hfr bs gubfr jub
qrfverq gb frpher serr ubzrf haqre bhe orarsvprag ynjf. Vg vf qvssvphyg gb
rfgvzngr gur vapernfr bs jrnygu juvpu jvyy erfhyg sebz gur pbairefvba bs
gurfr jnfgr ynaqf vagb snezf, ohg vg vf zber qvssvphyg gb rfgvzngr gur
orggrezrag juvpu jvyy erfhyg gb gur snzvyvrf gung unir sbhaq erarjrq ubcr
naq pbhentr va gur bjarefuvc bs n ubzr naq gur nffhenapr bs n pbzsbegnoyr
fhofvfgrapr haqre serr naq urnygushy pbaqvgvbaf. Vg vf nyfb tengvslvat gb
or noyr gb srry, nf jr znl, gung guvf jbex unf cebprrqrq hcba yvarf bs
whfgvpr gbjneq gur Vaqvna, naq gung ur znl abj, vs ur jvyy, frpher gb
uvzfrys gur tbbq vasyhraprf bs n frggyrq unovgngvba, gur sehvgf bs
vaqhfgel, naq gur frphevgl bs pvgvmrafuvc.

Rneyl va guvf Nqzvavfgengvba n fcrpvny rssbeg jnf ortha gb oevat hc gur
jbex bs gur Trareny Ynaq Bssvpr. Ol snvgushy jbex gur neernentrf unir orra
encvqyl erqhprq. Ng gur raq bs gur ynfg svfpny lrne bayl 84,172 svany
ntevphygheny ragevrf erznvarq haqvfcbfrq bs, naq gur Pbzzvffvbare ercbegf
gung jvgu gur cerfrag sbepr gur jbex pna or shyyl oebhtug hc ol gur raq bs
gur arkg svfpny lrne.

Lbhe nggragvba vf pnyyrq gb gur qvssvphygl cerfragrq ol gur Frpergnel bs
gur Vagrevbe nf gb gur nqzvavfgengvba bs gur ynj bs Znepu 3, 1891,
rfgnoyvfuvat n Pbheg bs Cevingr Ynaq Pynvzf. Gur fznyy ubyqvatf vagraqrq gb
or cebgrpgrq ol gur ynj ner rfgvzngrq gb or zber guna 15,000 va ahzore. Gur
pynvznagf ner n zbfg qrfreivat pynff naq gurve gvgyrf ner fhccbegrq ol gur
fgebatrfg rdhvgvrf. Gur qvssvphygl tebjf bhg bs gur snpg gung gur ynaqf
unir ynetryl orra fheirlrq nppbeqvat gb bhe zrgubqf, juvyr gur ubyqvatf,
znal bs juvpu unir orra va gur fnzr snzvyl sbe trarengvbaf, ner ynvq bhg va
aneebj fgevcf n srj ebqf jvqr hcba n fgernz naq ehaavat onpx gb gur uvyyf
sbe cnfghentr naq gvzore.. Cebivfvba fubhyq or znqr sbe ahzorevat gurfr
genpgf nf ybgf naq sbe cngragvat gurz ol fhpu ahzoref naq jvgubhg ersrerapr
gb frpgvba yvarf.

Gur nqzvavfgengvba bs gur Crafvba Ohernh unf orra punenpgrevmrq qhevat gur
lrne ol terng qvyvtrapr. Gur gbgny ahzore bs crafvbaref hcba gur ebyy ba
gur 30gu qnl bs Whar, 1891, jnf 676,160. Gurer jrer nyybjrq qhevat gur
svfpny lrne raqvat ng gung gvzr 250,565 pnfrf. Bs guvf ahzore 102,387 jrer
nyybjrq haqre gur ynj bs Whar 27, 1890. Gur vffhvat bs pregvsvpngrf unf
orra cebprrqvat ng gur engr bs nobhg 30,000 cre zbagu, nobhg 75 cre prag bs
gurfr orvat pnfrf haqre gur arj ynj. Gur Pbzzvffvbare rkcerffrf gur bcvavba
gung ur jvyy or noyr gb pnershyyl nqwhqvpngr naq nyybj 350,000 pynvzf
qhevat gur cerfrag svfpny lrne. Gur nccebcevngvba sbe gur cnlzrag bs
crafvbaf sbe gur svfpny lrne 1890-91 jnf $127,685,793.89 naq gur nzbhag
rkcraqrq $118,530,649.25, yrnivat na harkcraqrq fhecyhf bs $9,155,144.64.

Gur Pbzzvffvbare vf dhvgr pbasvqrag gung gurer jvyy or ab pnyy guvf lrne
sbe n qrsvpvrapl nccebcevngvba, abgjvgufgnaqvat gur encvqvgl jvgu juvpu gur
jbex vf orvat chfurq. Gur zvfgnxr juvpu unf orra znqr ol znal va gurve
rknttrengrq rfgvzngrf bs gur pbfg bs crafvbaf vf va abg gnxvat nppbhag bs
gur qvzvavfurq inyhr bs svefg cnlzragf haqre gur erprag yrtvfyngvba. Gurfr
cnlzragf haqre gur trareny ynj unir orra sbe znal lrnef irel ynetr, nf gur
crafvbaf jura nyybjrq qngrq sebz gur gvzr bs svyvat gur pynvz, naq zbfg bs
gurfr pynvzf unq orra craqvat sbe lrnef. Gur svefg cnlzragf haqre gur ynj
bs Whar, 1890, ner eryngviryl fznyy, naq nf gur cre prag bs gurfr pnfrf
vapernfrf naq gung bs gur byq pnfrf qvzvavfurf gur naahny nttertngr bs
svefg cnlzragf vf ynetryl erqhprq. Gur Pbzzvffvbare, haqre qngr bs Abirzore
13, sheavfurf zr jvgu gur fgngrzrag gung qhevat gur ynfg sbhe zbaguf
113,175 pregvsvpngrf jrer vffhrq, 27,893 haqre gur trareny ynj naq 85,282
haqre gur npg bs Whar 27, 1890. Gur nirentr svefg cnlzrag qhevat gurfr sbhe
zbaguf jnf $131.85, juvyr gur nirentr svefg cnlzrag hcba pnfrf nyybjrq
qhevat gur lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1891, jnf $239.33, orvat n erqhpgvba va gur
nirentr svefg cnlzragf qhevat gurfr sbhe zbaguf bs $107.48.

Gur rfgvzngr sbe crafvba rkcraqvgherf sbe gur svfpny lrne raqvat Whar 30,
1893, vf $144,956,000, juvpu, nsgre n pnershy rknzvangvba bs gur fhowrpg,
gur Pbzzvffvbare vf bs gur bcvavba jvyy or fhssvpvrag. Juvyr gurfr
qvfohefrzragf gb gur qvfnoyrq fbyqvref bs gur terng Pvivy Jne ner ynetr,
gurl qb abg ernyvmr gur rknttrengrq rfgvzngrf bs gubfr jub bccbfr guvf
orarsvprag yrtvfyngvba. Gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe fubjf jvgu terng
shyyarff gur pner gung vf gnxra gb rkpyhqr senhqhyrag pynvzf, naq nyfb gur
tengvslvat snpg gung gur crefbaf gb jubz gurfr crafvbaf ner tbvat ner zra
jub eraqrerq abg fyvtug ohg fhofgnagvny jne freivpr.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Pbzzvffvbare bs Envyebnqf fubjf gung gur gbgny qrog bs
gur fhofvqvmrq envyebnqf gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf jnf ba Qrprzore 31, 1890,
$112,512,613.06. N ynetr cneg bs guvf qrog vf abj snfg nccebnpuvat
znghevgl, jvgu ab nqrdhngr cebivfvba sbe vgf cnlzrag. Fbzr cbyvpl sbe
qrnyvat jvgu guvf qrog jvgu n ivrj gb vgf hygvzngr pbyyrpgvba fubhyq or ng
bapr nqbcgrq. Vg vf irel qvssvphyg, jryy-avtu vzcbffvoyr, sbe fb ynetr n
obql nf gur Pbaterff gb pbaqhpg gur arprffnel artbgvngvbaf naq
vairfgvtngvbaf. V gurersber erpbzzraq gung cebivfvba or znqr sbe gur
nccbvagzrag bs n pbzzvffvba gb nterr hcba naq ercbeg n cyna sbe qrnyvat
jvgu guvf qrog.

Gur jbex bs gur Prafhf Ohernh vf abj sne va nqinapr naq gur terng ohyx bs
gur rabezbhf ynobe vaibyirq pbzcyrgrq. Vg jvyy or zber fgevpgyl n
fgngvfgvpny rkuvovg naq yrff raphzorerq ol rffnlf guna vgf vzzrqvngr
cerqrprffbef. Gur zrgubqf chefhrq unir orra snve, pnershy, naq vagryyvtrag,
naq unir frpherq gur nccebiny bs gur fgngvfgvpvnaf jub unir sbyybjrq gurz
jvgu n fpvragvsvp naq abacnegvfna vagrerfg. Gur nccebcevngvbaf arprffnel gb
gur rneyl pbzcyrgvba naq choyvpngvba bs gur nhgubevmrq ibyhzrf fubhyq or
tvira va gvzr gb frpher ntnvafg qrynlf, juvpu vapernfr gur pbfg naq ng gur
fnzr gvzr qvzvavfu gur inyhr bs gur jbex.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel rkuvovgf jvgu vagrerfgvat shyyarff gur
pbaqvgvba bs gur Greevgbevrf. Gurl unir funerq jvgu gur Fgngrf gur terng
vapernfr va snez cebqhpgf, naq ner oevatvat lrneyl ynetr nernf vagb
phygvingvba ol rkgraqvat gurve veevtngvat pnanyf. Guvf jbex vf orvat qbar
ol vaqvivqhnyf be ybpny pbecbengvbaf naq jvgubhg gung flfgrz juvpu n shyy
ceryvzvanel fheirl bs gur jngre fhccyl naq bs gur veevtnoyr ynaqf jbhyq
ranoyr gurz gb nqbcg. Gur shgher bs gur Greevgbevrf bs Arj Zrkvpb, Nevmban,
naq Hgnu va gurve zngrevny tebjgu naq va gur vapernfr, vaqrcraqrapr, naq
unccvarff bs gurve crbcyr vf irel ynetryl qrcraqrag hcba jvfr naq gvzryl
yrtvfyngvba, rvgure ol Pbaterff be gurve bja yrtvfyngherf, erthyngvat gur
qvfgevohgvba bs gur jngre fhccyl sheavfurq ol gurve fgernzf. Vs guvf znggre
vf zhpu ybatre artyrpgrq, cevingr pbecbengvbaf jvyy unir haerfgevpgrq
pbageby bs bar bs gur ryrzragf bs yvsr naq gur cngragrrf bs gur nevq ynaqf
jvyy or granagf ng jvyy bs gur jngre pbzcnavrf.

Gur Havgrq Fgngrf fubhyq cneg jvgu vgf bjarefuvc bs gur jngre fbheprf naq
gur fvgrf sbe erfreibvef, jurgure gb gur Fgngrf naq Greevgbevrf be gb
vaqvivqhnyf be pbecbengvbaf, bayl hcba pbaqvgvbaf gung jvyy vafher gb gur
frggyref gurve cebcre jngre fhccyl hcba rdhny naq ernfbanoyr grezf. Va gur
Greevgbevrf guvf jubyr fhowrpg vf haqre gur shyy pbageby bs Pbaterff, naq
va gur Fgngrf vg vf cenpgvpnyyl fb nf ybat nf gur Tbireazrag ubyqf gur
gvgyr gb gur erfreibve fvgrf naq jngre fbheprf naq pna tenag gurz hcba fhpu
pbaqvgvbaf nf vg pubbfrf gb vzcbfr. Gur vzcebivqrag tenagvat bs senapuvfrf
bs rabezbhf inyhr jvgubhg erpbzcrafr gb gur Fgngr be zhavpvcnyvgl sebz
juvpu gurl cebprrq naq jvgubhg cebcre cebgrpgvba bs gur choyvp vagrerfgf vf
gur zbfg abgvprnoyr naq syntenag rivy bs zbqrea yrtvfyngvba. Guvf snhyg
fubhyq abg or pbzzvggrq va qrnyvat jvgu n fhowrpg gung jvyy orsber znal
lrnef nssrpg fb ivgnyyl gubhfnaqf bs bhe crbcyr.

Gur yrtvfyngvba bs Pbaterff sbe gur ercerffvba bs cbyltnzl unf, nsgre lrnef
bs erfvfgnapr ba gur cneg bs gur Zbezbaf, ng ynfg oebhtug gurz gb gur
pbapyhfvba gung erfvfgnapr vf hacebsvgnoyr naq haninvyvat. Gur cbjre bs
Pbaterff bire guvf fhowrpg fubhyq abg or fheeraqrerq hagvy jr unir
fngvfsnpgbel rivqrapr gung gur crbcyr bs gur Fgngr gb or perngrq jbhyq
rkrepvfr gur rkpyhfvir cbjre bs gur Fgngr bire guvf fhowrpg va gur fnzr
jnl. Gur dhrfgvba vf abg jurgure gurfr crbcyr abj borl gur ynjf bs Pbaterff
ntnvafg cbyltnzl, ohg engure jbhyq gurl znxr, rasbepr, naq znvagnva fhpu
ynjf gurzfryirf vs nofbyhgryl serr gb erthyngr gur fhowrpg? Jr pna abg
nssbeq gb rkcrevzrag jvgu guvf fhowrpg, sbe jura n Fgngr vf bapr
pbafgvghgrq gur npg vf svany naq nal zvfgnxr veergevrinoyr. Ab pbzcnpg va
gur ranoyvat npg pbhyq, va zl bcvavba, or ovaqvat be rssrpgvir.

V erpbzzraq gung cebivfvba or znqr sbe gur betnavmngvba bs n fvzcyr sbez bs
gbja tbireazrag va Nynfxn, jvgu cbjre gb erthyngr fhpu znggref nf ner
hfhnyyl va gur Fgngrf haqre zhavpvcny pbageby. Gurfr ybpny pvivy
betnavmngvbaf jvyy tvir orggre cebgrpgvba va fbzr znggref guna gur cerfrag
fxryrgba Greevgbevny betnavmngvba. Cebcre erfgevpgvbaf nf gb gur cbjre gb
yril gnkrf naq gb perngr qrog fubhyq or vzcbfrq.

Vs gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs gur Qrcnegzrag bs Ntevphygher jnf ertneqrq ol
nalbar nf n zrer pbaprffvba gb gur harayvtugrarq qrznaq bs n jbegul pynff
bs crbcyr, gung vzcerffvba unf orra zbfg rssrpghnyyl erzbirq ol gur terng
erfhygf nyernql nggnvarq. Vgf ubzr vasyhrapr unf orra irel terng va
qvffrzvangvat ntevphygheny naq ubegvphygheny vasbezngvba, va fgvzhyngvat
naq qverpgvat n shegure qvirefvsvpngvba bs pebcf, va qrgrpgvat naq
renqvpngvat qvfrnfrf bs qbzrfgvp navznyf, naq, zber guna nyy, va gur pybfr
naq vasbezny pbagnpg juvpu vg unf rfgnoyvfurq naq znvagnvaf jvgu gur
snezref naq fgbpx envfref bs gur jubyr pbhagel. Rirel erdhrfg sbe
vasbezngvba unf unq cebzcg nggragvba naq rirel fhttrfgvba zrevgrq
pbafvqrengvba. Gur fpvragvsvp pbecf bs gur Qrcnegzrag vf bs n uvtu beqre
naq vf chfuvat vgf vairfgvtngvbaf jvgu zrgubq naq raguhfvnfz.

Gur vafcrpgvba ol guvf Qrcnegzrag bs pnggyr naq cbex cebqhpgf vagraqrq sbe
fuvczrag noebnq unf orra gur onfvf bs gur fhpprff juvpu unf nggraqrq bhe
rssbegf gb frpher gur erzbiny bs gur erfgevpgvbaf znvagnvarq ol gur
Rhebcrna Tbireazragf.

Sbe gra lrnef cebgrfgf naq crgvgvbaf hcba guvf fhowrpg sebz gur cnpxref naq
fgbpx envfref bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir orra qverpgrq ntnvafg gurfr
erfgevpgvbaf, juvpu fb frevbhfyl yvzvgrq bhe znexrgf naq phegnvyrq gur
cebsvgf bs gur snez. Vg vf n fbhepr bs trareny pbatenghyngvba gung fhpprff
unf ng ynfg orra nggnvarq, sbe gur rssrpgf bs na raynetrq sbervta znexrg
sbe gurfr zrngf jvyy or sryg abg bayl ol gur snezre, ohg va bhe choyvp
svanaprf naq va rirel oenapu bs genqr. Vg vf cnegvphyneyl sbeghangr gung
gur vapernfrq qrznaq sbe sbbq cebqhpgf erfhygvat sebz gur erzbiny bs gur
erfgevpgvbaf hcba bhe zrngf naq sebz gur erpvcebpny genqr neenatrzragf gb
juvpu V unir ersreerq fubhyq unir pbzr ng n gvzr jura gur ntevphygheny
fhecyhf vf fb ynetr. Jvgubhg gur uryc guhf qrevirq ybjre cevprf jbhyq unir
cerinvyrq. Gur Frpergnel bs Ntevphygher rfgvzngrf gung gur erfgevpgvbaf
hcba gur vzcbegngvba bs bhe cbex cebqhpgf vagb Rhebcr ybfg hf n znexrg sbe
$20,000,000 jbegu bs gurfr cebqhpgf naahnyyl.

Gur tenva pebc bs guvf lrne jnf gur ynetrfg va bhe uvfgbel--50 cre prag
terngre guna gung bs ynfg lrne--naq lrg gur arj znexrgf gung unir orra
bcrarq naq gur ynetre qrznaq erfhygvat sebz fubeg pebcf va Rhebcr unir
fhfgnvarq cevprf gb fhpu na rkgrag gung gur rabezbhf fhecyhf bs zrngf naq
oernqfghssf jvyy or znexrgrq ng tbbq cevprf, oevatvat eryvrs naq cebfcrevgl
gb na vaqhfgel gung jnf zhpu qrcerffrq. Gur inyhr bs gur tenva pebc bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf vf rfgvzngrq ol gur Frpergnel gb or guvf lrne $500,000,000
zber guna ynfg; bs zrngf $150,000,000 zber, naq bs nyy cebqhpgf bs gur snez
$700,000,000 zber. Vg vf abg vanccebcevngr, V guvax, urer gb fhttrfg gung
bhe fngvfsnpgvba va gur pbagrzcyngvba bs guvf zneirybhf nqqvgvba gb gur
angvbany jrnygu vf hapybhqrq ol nal fhfcvpvba bs gur pheerapl ol juvpu vg
vf zrnfherq naq va juvpu gur snezre vf cnvq sbe gur cebqhpgf bs uvf
svryqf.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Pvivy Freivpr Pbzzvffvba fubhyq erprvir gur pnershy
nggragvba bs gur bccbaragf nf jryy nf gur sevraqf bs guvf ersbez. Gur
Pbzzvffvba vaivgrf n crefbany vafcrpgvba ol Frangbef naq Ercerfragngvirf bs
vgf erpbeqf naq zrgubqf, naq rirel snve pevgvp jvyy srry gung fhpu na
rknzvangvba fubhyq cerprqr n whqtzrag bs pbaqrzangvba rvgure bs gur flfgrz
be vgf nqzvavfgengvba. Vg vf abg pynvzrq gung rvgure vf cresrpg, ohg V
oryvrir gung gur ynj vf orvat rkrphgrq jvgu vzcnegvnyvgl naq gung gur
flfgrz vf vapbzcnenoyl orggre naq snvere guna gung bs nccbvagzragf hcba
snibe. V unir qhevat gur lrne rkgraqrq gur pynffvsvrq freivpr gb vapyhqr
fhcrevagraqragf, grnpuref, zngebaf, naq culfvpvnaf va gur Vaqvna freivpr.
Guvf oenapu bs gur freivpr vf ynetryl eryngrq gb rqhpngvbany naq
cuvynaguebcvp jbex naq jvyy boivbhfyl or gur orggre sbe gur punatr.

Gur urnqf bs gur frireny Rkrphgvir Qrcnegzragf unir orra qverpgrq gb
rfgnoyvfu ng bapr na rssvpvrapl erpbeq nf gur onfvf bs n pbzcnengvir engvat
bs gur pyrexf jvguva gur pynffvsvrq freivpr, jvgu n ivrj gb cynpvat
cebzbgvbaf gurerva hcba gur onfvf bs zrevg. V nz pbasvqrag gung fhpu n
erpbeq, snveyl xrcg naq bcra gb gur vafcrpgvba bs gubfr vagrerfgrq, jvyy
cbjreshyyl fgvzhyngr gur jbex bs gur Qrcnegzragf naq jvyy or npprcgrq ol
nyy nf cynpvat gur gebhoyrfbzr znggre bs cebzbgvbaf hcba n whfg onfvf.

V erpbzzraq gung gur nccebcevngvba sbe gur Pvivy Freivpr Pbzzvffvba or znqr
nqrdhngr gb gur vapernfrq jbex bs gur arkg svfpny lrne.

V unir gjvpr orsber hetragyl pnyyrq gur nggragvba bs Pbaterff gb gur
arprffvgl bs yrtvfyngvba sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs gur yvirf bs envyebnq
rzcyblrrf, ohg abguvat unf lrg orra qbar. Qhevat gur lrne raqvat Whar 30,
1890, 369 oenxrzra jrer xvyyrq naq 7,841 znvzrq juvyr ratntrq va pbhcyvat
pnef. Gur gbgny ahzore bs envyebnq rzcyblrrf xvyyrq qhevat gur lrne jnf
2,451 naq gur ahzore vawherq 22,390. Guvf vf n pehry naq ynetryl arrqyrff
fnpevsvpr. Gur Tbireazrag vf fcraqvat arneyl $1,000,000 naahnyyl gb fnir
gur yvirf bs fuvcjerpxrq frnzra; rirel fgrnz irffry vf evtvqyl vafcrpgrq
naq erdhverq gb nqbcg gur zbfg nccebirq fnsrgl nccyvnaprf. Nyy guvf vf
tbbq. Ohg ubj funyy jr rkphfr gur ynpx bs vagrerfg naq rssbeg va orunys bs
guvf nezl bs oenir lbhat zra jub va bhe ynaq pbzzrepr ner orvat fnpevsvprq
rirel lrne ol gur pbagvahrq hfr bs nagvdhngrq naq qnatrebhf nccyvnaprf? N
ynj erdhvevat bs rirel envyebnq ratntrq va vagrefgngr pbzzrepr gur
rdhvczrag rnpu lrne bs n tvira cre prag bs vgf servtug pnef jvgu nhgbzngvp
pbhcyref naq nve oenxrf jbhyq pbzcry na nterrzrag orgjrra gur ebnqf nf gb
gur xvaq bs oenxrf naq pbhcyref gb or hfrq, naq jbhyq irel fbba naq irel
terngyl erqhpr gur cerfrag srneshy qrngu engr nzbat envyebnq rzcyblrrf.

Gur zrgubq bs nccbvagzrag ol gur Fgngrf bs ryrpgbef bs Cerfvqrag naq
Ivpr-Cerfvqrag unf erpragyl nggenpgrq erarjrq vagrerfg ol ernfba bs n
qrcnegher ol gur Fgngr bs Zvpuvtna sebz gur zrgubq juvpu unq orpbzr havsbez
va nyy gur Fgngrf. Cevbe gb 1832 inevbhf zrgubqf unq orra hfrq ol gur
qvssrerag Fgngrf, naq rira ol gur fnzr Fgngr. Va fbzr gur pubvpr jnf znqr
ol gur yrtvfyngher; va bguref ryrpgbef jrer pubfra ol qvfgevpgf, ohg zber
trarenyyl ol gur ibgref bs gur jubyr Fgngr hcba n trareny gvpxrg. Gur
zbirzrag gbjneq gur nqbcgvba bs gur ynfg-anzrq zrgubq unq na rneyl
ortvaavat naq jrag fgrnqvyl sbejneq nzbat gur Fgngrf hagvy va 1832 gurer
erznvarq ohg n fvatyr Fgngr (Fbhgu Pnebyvan) gung unq abg nqbcgrq vg. Gung
Fgngr hagvy gur Pvivy Jne pbagvahrq gb pubbfr vgf ryrpgbef ol n ibgr bs gur
yrtvfyngher, ohg nsgre gur jne punatrq vgf zrgubq naq pbasbezrq gb gur
cenpgvpr bs gur bgure Fgngrf. Sbe arneyl fvkgl lrnef nyy gur Fgngrf fnir
bar unir nccbvagrq gurve ryrpgbef ol n cbchyne ibgr hcba n trareny gvpxrg,
naq sbe arneyl guvegl lrnef guvf zrgubq jnf havirefny.

Nsgre n shyy grfg bs bgure zrgubqf, jvgubhg vzcbegnag qvivfvba be qvffrag
va nal Fgngr naq jvgubhg nal checbfr bs cnegl nqinagntr, nf jr zhfg
oryvrir, ohg fbyryl hcba gur pbafvqrengvbaf gung havsbezvgl jnf qrfvenoyr
naq gung n trareny ryrpgvba va greevgbevny qvivfvbaf abg fhowrpg gb punatr
jnf zbfg pbafvfgrag jvgu gur cbchyne punenpgre bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf, orfg
cerfreirq gur rdhnyvgl bs gur ibgref, naq cresrpgyl erzbirq gur pubvpr bs
Cerfvqrag sebz gur onarshy vasyhrapr bs gur "treelznaqre," gur cenpgvpr bs
nyy gur Fgngrf jnf oebhtug vagb unezbal. Gung guvf pbapheerapr fubhyq abj
or oebxra vf, V guvax, na hasbeghangr naq rira n guerngravat rcvfbqr, naq
bar gung znl jryy fhttrfg jurgure gur Fgngrf gung fgvyy tvir gurve nccebiny
gb gur byq naq cerinvyvat zrgubq bhtug abg gb frpher ol n pbafgvghgvbany
nzraqzrag n cenpgvpr juvpu unf unq gur nccebiny bs nyy. Gur erprag Zvpuvtna
yrtvfyngvba cebivqrf sbe pubbfvat jung ner cbchyneyl xabja nf gur
Pbaterffvbany ryrpgbef sbe Cerfvqrag ol Pbaterffvbany qvfgevpgf naq gur gjb
Frangbevny ryrpgbef ol qvfgevpgf perngrq sbe gung checbfr. Guvf yrtvfyngvba
jnf, bs pbhefr, nppbzcnavrq ol n arj Pbaterffvbany nccbegvbazrag, naq gur
gjb fgnghgrf oevat gur ryrpgbeny ibgr bs gur Fgngr haqre gur vasyhrapr bs
gur "treelznaqre."

Gurfr treelznaqref sbe Pbaterffvbany checbfrf ner va zbfg pnfrf ohggerffrq
ol n treelznaqre bs gur yrtvfyngvir qvfgevpgf, guhf znxvat vg vzcbffvoyr
sbe n znwbevgl bs gur yrtny ibgref bs gur Fgngr gb pbeerpg gur
nccbegvbazrag naq rdhnyvmr gur Pbaterffvbany qvfgevpgf. N zvabevgl ehyr vf
rfgnoyvfurq gung bayl n cbyvgvpny pbaihyfvba pna bireguebj. V unir erpragyl
orra nqivfrq gung va bar pbhagl bs n pregnva Fgngr guerr qvfgevpgf sbe gur
ryrpgvba bs zrzoref bs gur yrtvfyngher ner pbafgvghgrq nf sbyybjf: Bar unf
65,000 cbchyngvba, bar 15,000, naq bar 10,000, juvyr va nabgure pbhagl
qrgnpurq, abapbagvthbhf frpgvbaf unir orra havgrq gb znxr n yrtvfyngvir
qvfgevpg. Gurfr zrgubqf unir nyernql sbhaq rssrpgvir nccyvpngvba gb gur
pubvpr bs Frangbef naq Ercerfragngvirf va Pbaterff, naq abj na rivy fgneg
unf orra znqr va gur qverpgvba bs nccylvat gurz gb gur pubvpr ol gur Fgngrf
bs ryrpgbef bs Cerfvqrag naq Ivpr-Cerfvqrag. Vs guvf vf nppbzcyvfurq, jr
funyy gura unir gur guerr terng qrcnegzragf bs gur Tbireazrag va gur tenfc
bs gur "treelznaqre," gur yrtvfyngvir naq rkrphgvir qverpgyl naq gur
whqvpvnel vaqverpgyl guebhtu gur cbjre bs nccbvagzrag.

Na ryrpgvba vzcyvrf n obql bs ryrpgbef univat cerfpevorq dhnyvsvpngvbaf,
rnpu bar bs jubz unf na rdhny inyhr naq vasyhrapr va qrgrezvavat gur
erfhyg. Fb jura gur Pbafgvghgvba cebivqrf gung "rnpu Fgngr funyy nccbvag"
(ryrpg), "va fhpu znaare nf gur yrtvfyngher gurerbs znl qverpg, n ahzore bs
ryrpgbef," rgp., na haerfgevpgrq cbjre jnf abg tvira gb gur yrtvfyngherf va
gur fryrpgvba bs gur zrgubqf gb or hfrq. "N erchoyvpna sbez bs tbireazrag"
vf thnenagrrq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba gb rnpu Fgngr, naq gur cbjre tvira ol gur
fnzr vafgehzrag gb gur yrtvfyngherf bs gur Fgngrf gb cerfpevor zrgubqf sbe
gur pubvpr ol gur Fgngr bs ryrpgbef zhfg or rkrepvfrq haqre gung
yvzvgngvba. Gur rffragvny srngherf bs fhpu n tbireazrag ner gur evtug bs
gur crbcyr gb pubbfr gurve bja bssvpref naq gur arnerfg cenpgvpnoyr
rdhnyvgl bs inyhr va gur fhssentrf tvira va qrgrezvavat gung pubvpr.

Vg jvyy abg or pynvzrq gung gur cbjre tvira gb gur yrtvfyngher jbhyq
fhccbeg n ynj cebivqvat gung gur crefbaf erprvivat gur fznyyrfg ibgr fubhyq
or gur ryrpgbef be n ynj gung nyy gur ryrpgbef fubhyq or pubfra ol gur
ibgref bs n fvatyr Pbaterffvbany qvfgevpg. Gur Fgngr vf gb pubbfr, naq
svaqre gur cergrafr bs erthyngvat zrgubqf gur yrtvfyngher pna arvgure irfg
gur evtug bs pubvpr ryfrjurer abe nqbcg zrgubqf abg pbasbeznoyr gb
erchoyvpna vafgvghgvbaf. Vg vf abg zl checbfr urer gb qvfphff gur dhrfgvba
jurgure n pubvpr ol gur yrtvfyngher be ol gur ibgref bs rdhny fvatyr
qvfgevpgf vf n pubvpr ol gur Fgngr, ohg bayl gb erpbzzraq fhpu erthyngvba
bs guvf znggre ol pbafgvghgvbany nzraqzrag nf jvyy frpher havsbezvgl naq
cerirag gung qvftenprshy cnegvfna whttyrel gb juvpu fhpu n yvoregl bs
pubvpr, vs vg rkvfgf, bssref n grzcgngvba.

Abguvat whfg abj vf zber vzcbegnag guna gb cebivqr rirel thnenagl sbe gur
nofbyhgryl snve naq serr pubvpr ol na rdhny fhssentr jvguva gur erfcrpgvir
Fgngrf bs nyy gur bssvpref bs gur Angvbany Tbireazrag, jurgure gung
fhssentr vf nccyvrq qverpgyl, nf va gur pubvpr bs zrzoref bs gur Ubhfr bs
Ercerfragngvirf, be vaqverpgyl, nf va gur pubvpr bs Frangbef naq ryrpgbef
bs Cerfvqrag. Erfcrpg sbe choyvp bssvpref naq borqvrapr gb ynj jvyy abg
prnfr gb or gur punenpgrevfgvpf bs bhe crbcyr hagvy bhe ryrpgvbaf prnfr gb
qrpyner gur jvyy bs znwbevgvrf snveyl nfpregnvarq jvgubhg senhq,
fhccerffvba, be treelznaqre. Vs V jrer pnyyrq hcba gb qrpyner jurerva bhe
puvrs angvbany qnatre yvrf, V fubhyq fnl jvgubhg urfvgngvba va gur
bireguebj bs znwbevgl pbageby ol gur fhccerffvba be creirefvba bs gur
cbchyne fhssentr. Gung gurer vf n erny qnatre urer nyy zhfg nterr; ohg gur
raretvrf bs gubfr jub frr vg unir orra puvrsyl rkcraqrq va gelvat gb svk
erfcbafvovyvgl hcba gur bccbfvgr cnegl engure guna va rssbegf gb znxr fhpu
cenpgvprf vzcbffvoyr ol rvgure cnegl.

Vf vg abg cbffvoyr abj gb nqwbhea gung vagrezvanoyr naq vapbapyhfvir qrongr
juvyr jr gnxr ol pbafrag bar fgrc va gur qverpgvba bs ersbez ol ryvzvangvat
gur treelznaqre, juvpu unf orra qrabhaprq ol nyy cnegvrf nf na vasyhrapr va
gur fryrpgvba bs ryrpgbef bs Cerfvqrag naq zrzoref bs Pbaterff? Nyy gur
Fgngrf unir, npgvat serryl naq frcnengryl, qrgrezvarq gung gur pubvpr bs
ryrpgbef ol n trareny gvpxrg vf gur jvfrfg naq fnsrfg zrgubq, naq vg jbhyq
frrz gurer pbhyq or ab bowrpgvba gb n pbafgvghgvbany nzraqzrag znxvat gung
zrgubq creznarag. Vs n yrtvfyngher pubfra va bar lrne hcba cheryl ybpny
dhrfgvbaf fubhyq, craqvat n Cerfvqragvny pbagrfg, zrrg, erfpvaq gur ynj sbe
n pubvpr hcba n trareny gvpxrg, naq cebivqr sbe gur pubvpr bs ryrpgbef ol
gur yrtvfyngher, naq guvf gevpx fubhyq qrgrezvar gur erfhyg, vg vf abg gbb
zhpu gb fnl gung gur choyvp crnpr zvtug or frevbhfyl naq jvqryl
raqnatrerq.

V unir nyyhqrq gb gur "treelznaqre" nf nssrpgvat gur zrgubq bs fryrpgvat
ryrpgbef bs Cerfvqrag ol Pbaterffvbany qvfgevpgf, ohg gur cevznel vagrag
naq rssrpg bs guvf sbez bs cbyvgvpny eboorel unir eryngvba gb gur fryrpgvba
bs zrzoref bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf. Gur cbjre bs Pbaterff vf nzcyr
gb qrny jvgu guvf guerngravat naq vagbyrenoyr nohfr. Gur hasnvyvat grfg bs
fvaprevgl va ryrpgvba ersbez jvyy or sbhaq va n jvyyvatarff gb pbasre nf gb
erzrqvrf naq gb chg vagb sbepr fhpu zrnfherf nf jvyy zbfg rssrpghnyyl
cerfreir gur evtug bs gur crbcyr gb serr naq rdhny ercerfragngvba.

Na nggrzcg jnf znqr va gur ynfg Pbaterff gb oevat gb orne gur
pbafgvghgvbany cbjref bs gur Trareny Tbireazrag sbe gur pbeerpgvba bs senhq
ntnvafg gur fhssentr. Vg vf vzcbegnag gb xabj jurgure gur bccbfvgvba gb
fhpu zrnfherf vf ernyyl erfgrq va cnegvphyne srngherf fhccbfrq gb or
bowrpgvbanoyr be vapyhqrf nal cebcbfvgvba gb tvir gb gur ryrpgvba ynjf bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf nqrdhnpl gb gur pbeerpgvba bs tenir naq npxabjyrqtrq
rivyf. V zhfg lrg ragregnva gur ubcr gung vg vf cbffvoyr gb frpher n pnyz,
cngevbgvp pbafvqrengvba bs fhpu pbafgvghgvbany be fgnghgbel punatrf nf znl
or arprffnel gb frpher gur pubvpr bs gur bssvpref bs gur Tbireazrag gb gur
crbcyr ol snve nccbegvbazragf naq serr ryrpgvbaf.

V oryvrir vg jbhyq or cbffvoyr gb pbafgvghgr n pbzzvffvba, abacnegvfna va
vgf zrzorefuvc naq pbzcbfrq bs cngevbgvp, jvfr, naq vzcnegvny zra, gb jubz
n pbafvqrengvba bs gur dhrfgvba bs gur rivyf pbaarpgrq jvgu bhe ryrpgvba
flfgrz naq zrgubqf zvtug or pbzzvggrq jvgu n tbbq cebfcrpg bs frphevat
hanavzvgl va fbzr cyna sbe erzbivat be zvgvtngvat gubfr rivyf. Gur
Pbafgvghgvba jbhyq crezvg gur fryrpgvba bs gur pbzzvffvba gb or irfgrq va
gur Fhcerzr Pbheg vs gung zrgubq jbhyq tvir gur orfg thnenagl bs
vzcnegvnyvgl. Guvf pbzzvffvba fubhyq or punetrq jvgu gur qhgl bs vadhvevat
vagb gur jubyr fhowrpg bs gur ynj bs ryrpgvbaf nf eryngrq gb gur pubvpr bs
bssvpref bs gur Angvbany Tbireazrag, jvgu n ivrj gb frphevat gb rirel
ryrpgbe n serr naq hazbyrfgrq rkrepvfr bs gur fhssentr naq nf arne na
nccebnpu gb na rdhnyvgl bs inyhr va rnpu onyybg pnfg nf vf nggnvanoyr.

Juvyr gur cbyvpvrf bs gur Trareny Tbireazrag hcba gur gnevss, hcba gur
erfgbengvba bs bhe zrepunag znevar, hcba evire naq uneobe vzcebirzragf, naq
bgure fhpu znggref bs tenir naq trareny pbaprea ner yvnoyr gb or ghearq
guvf jnl be gung ol gur erfhygf bs Pbaterffvbany ryrpgvbaf naq
nqzvavfgengvir cbyvpvrf, fbzrgvzrf vaibyivat vffhrf gung graq gb crnpr be
jne, gb or ghearq guvf jnl be gung ol gur erfhygf bs n Cerfvqragvny
ryrpgvba, gurer vf n evtugshy vagrerfg va nyy gur Fgngrf naq va rirel
Pbaterffvbany qvfgevpg gung jvyy abg or qrprvirq be fvyraprq ol gur
nhqnpvbhf cergrafr gung gur dhrfgvba bs gur evtug bs nal obql bs yrtny
ibgref va nal Fgngr be va nal Pbaterffvbany qvfgevpg gb tvir gurve
fhssentrf serryl hcba gurfr trareny dhrfgvbaf vf n znggre bayl bs ybpny
pbaprea be pbageby. Gur qrznaq gung gur yvzvgngvbaf bs fhssentr funyy or
sbhaq va gur ynj, naq bayl gurer, vf n whfg qrznaq, naq ab whfg zna fubhyq
erfrag be erfvfg vg. Zl nccrny vf naq zhfg pbagvahr gb or sbe n
pbafhygngvba gung funyy "cebprrq jvgu pnaqbe, pnyzarff, naq cngvrapr hcba
gur yvarf bs whfgvpr naq uhznavgl, abg bs cerwhqvpr naq pehrygl."

Gb gur pbafvqrengvba bs gurfr irel tenir dhrfgvbaf V vaivgr abg bayl gur
nggragvba bs Pbaterff, ohg gung bs nyy cngevbgvp pvgvmraf. Jr zhfg abg
ragregnva gur qryhfvba gung bhe crbcyr unir prnfrq gb ertneq n serr onyybg
naq rdhny ercerfragngvba nf gur cevpr bs gurve nyyrtvnapr gb ynjf naq gb
pvivy zntvfgengrf.

V unir orra terngyl erwbvprq gb abgvpr znal rivqraprf bs gur vapernfrq
havsvpngvba bs bhe crbcyr naq bs n erivirq angvbany fcvevg. Gur ivfgn gung
abj bcraf gb hf vf jvqre naq zber tybevbhf guna rire orsber. Tengvsvpngvba
naq nznmrzrag fgehttyr sbe fhcerznpl nf jr pbagrzcyngr gur cbchyngvba,
jrnygu, naq zbeny fgeratgu bs bhe pbhagel. N gehfg zbzragbhf va vgf
vasyhrapr hcba bhe crbcyr naq hcba gur jbeyq vf sbe n oevrs gvzr pbzzvggrq
gb hf, naq jr zhfg abg or snvguyrff gb vgf svefg pbaqvgvba--gur qrsrafr bs
gur serr naq rdhny vasyhrapr bs gur crbcyr va gur pubvpr bs choyvp bssvpref
naq va gur pbageby bs choyvp nssnvef.

ORAW. UNEEVFBA