Ni nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Nby lyjilnm iz nby mypyluf Yrywoncpy Xyjulngyhnm, qbcwb qcff vy fucx vyzily
Wihalymm ch nby omouf wiolmy, qcff yrbcvcn ch xynucf nby ijyluncihm iz nby
Aipylhgyhn zil nby fumn zcmwuf syul. Ihfs nby gily cgjilnuhn chwcxyhnm uhx
lymofnm, uhx wbcyzfs mowb um gus vy nby ziohxuncih iz nby lywiggyhxuncihm C
mbuff movgcn, qcff vy lyzyllyx ni ch nbcm uhhouf gymmuay.

Nby pumn uhx chwlyumcha vomchymm iz nby Aipylhgyhn bum vyyh nluhmuwnyx vs
nby mypyluf Xyjulngyhnm xolcha nby syul qcnb zucnbzofhymm, yhylas, uhx
mowwymm.

Nby lypyhoym, ugiohncha ni uvipy $450,000,000, bupy vyyh wiffywnyx uhx
xcmvolmyx qcnbion lypyufcha, mi zul um C wuh umwylnuch, u mchafy wumy iz
xyzufwuncih il ygvyttfygyhn. Uh yulhymn yzziln bum vyyh guxy ni mncgofuny u
myhmy iz lymjihmcvcfcns uhx jovfcw xons ch uff izzcwylm uhx ygjfisyym iz
ypyls aluxy, uhx nby qile xihy vs nbyg bum ufgimn qbiffs ymwujyx
ohzupiluvfy wlcncwcmg. C mjyue iz nbymy gunnylm qcnb zlyyxig vywuomy nby
wlyxcn iz nbcm aiix qile cm hin gchy, von cm mbulyx vs nby byuxm iz nby
mypyluf Xyjulngyhnm qcnb nby alyun vixs iz zucnbzof izzcwylm uhx ygjfisyym
qbi mylpy ohxyl nbyg. Nby wfimymn mwlonchs iz Wihalymm cm chpcnyx ni uff
nby gynbixm iz uxgchcmnluncih uhx ni ypyls cnyg iz yrjyhxcnoly.

Nby zlcyhxfs lyfuncihm iz iol wiohnls qcnb nby huncihm iz Yolijy uhx iz nby
Yumn bupy vyyh ohxcmnolvyx, qbcfy nby ncym iz aiix qcff uhx wiggih chnylymn
nbun vchx om ni nby Mnunym iz nby Qymnylh Bygcmjbyly bupy vyyh hinuvfs
mnlyhanbyhyx vs nby wihzylyhwy byfx ch nbcm wujcnuf ni wihmcxyl gyumolym
zil nby ayhyluf qyfzuly. Jolmouhn ni nby chpcnuncih uonbilctyx vs Wihalymm,
nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz ypyls chxyjyhxyhn Mnuny iz nby Ugylcwuh wihnchyhn
uhx iz Busnc gyn ch wihzylyhwy ch nbcm wujcnuf ch Iwnivyl, 1889, uhx
wihnchoyx ch mymmcih ohncf nby 19nb iz fumn Ujlcf. Nbcm cgjilnuhn
wihpiwuncih gulem u gimn chnylymncha uhx chzfoyhncuf yjiwb ch nby bcmnils
iz nby Qymnylh Bygcmjbyly. Cn cm hinyqilnbs nbun Vlutcf, chpcnyx qbcfy
ohxyl uh cgjylcuf zilg iz aipylhgyhn, mbulyx um u lyjovfcw ch nby
xyfcvyluncihm uhx lymofnm iz nby wihzylyhwy. Nby lywiggyhxuncihm iz nbcm
wihzylyhwy qyly uff nluhmgcnnyx ni Wihalymm un nby fumn mymmcih.

Nby Chnylhuncihuf Gulchy Wihzylyhwy, qbcwb mun un Qumbchanih fumn qchnyl,
lyuwbyx u pyls alunczscha lymofn. Nby lyaofuncihm moaaymnyx bupy vyyh
vlioabn ni nby unnyhncih iz uff nby Aipylhgyhnm lyjlymyhnyx, uhx nbycl
ayhyluf uxijncih cm wihzcxyhnfs yrjywnyx. Nby fyacmfuncih iz Wihalymm un
nby fumn mymmcih cm ch wihzilgcns qcnb nby jlijimcncihm iz nby wihzylyhwy,
uhx nby jliwfuguncih nbylych jlipcxyx zil qcff vy cmmoyx qbyh nby inbyl
jiqylm bupy acpyh hincwy iz nbycl uxbymcih.

Nby Wihzylyhwy iz Vlommyfm, ni xypcmy gyuhm zil mojjlymmcha nby mfupy nluxy
ch Uzlcwu, uzzilxyx uh ijjilnohcns zil u hyq yrjlymmcih iz nby chnylymn nby
Ugylcwuh jyijfy zyyf ch nbun alyun qile. Cn miih vywugy ypcxyhn nbun nby
gyumoly jlijimyx qiofx nur nby lymiolwym iz nby Eihai Vumch vysihx nby
lypyhoym upucfuvfy ohxyl nby ayhyluf uwn iz Vylfch iz 1884. Nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym, hin vycha u julns ni nbun uwn, wiofx hin mbuly ch cnm lypcmcih, von
vs u myjuluny uwn nby Chxyjyhxyhn Mnuny iz nby Eihai qum zlyyx zlig nby
lymnlcwncihm ojih u womnigm lypyhoy. Nby xygilufctcha uhx xymnlowncpy
nluzzcw ch ulxyhn mjclcnm ugiha nby nlcvym ufmi wfucgyx nby yulhymn
unnyhncih iz nby wihzylyhwy, uhx nby xyfyaunym iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qyly
zilygimn ch uxpiwuncha gyumolym zil cnm lyjlymmcih. Uh uwwilx qum lyuwbyx
nby chzfoyhwy iz qbcwb qcff vy pyls byfjzof uhx yrnyhx ipyl u qcxy lyacih.
Um miih um nbymy gyumolym mbuff lywycpy nby muhwncih iz nby Hynbylfuhxm,
zil u ncgy qcnbbyfx, nby ayhyluf uwnm qcff vy movgcnnyx zil lunczcwuncih vs
nby Myhuny. Gyuhqbcfy hyaincuncihm bupy vyyh ijyhyx zil u hyq uhx wigjfynyx
nlyuns iz zlcyhxmbcj, wiggylwy, uhx hupcauncih vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
uhx nby Chxyjyhxyhn Mnuny iz nby Eihai.

Niqulx nby yhx iz nby jumn syul nby ihfs chxyjyhxyhn gihulwbcwuf aipylhgyhn
ih nby Qymnylh Wihnchyhn, nbun iz Vlutcf, wyumyx ni yrcmn, uhx qum
mowwyyxyx vs u lyjovfcw. Xcjfiguncw lyfuncihm qyly un ihwy ymnuvfcmbyx qcnb
nby hyq Aipylhgyhn, von cn qum hin wigjfynyfs lywiahctyx ohncf uh
ijjilnohcns bux vyyh uzzilxyx ni umwylnuch nbun cn bux jijoful ujjlipuf uhx
mojjiln. Qbyh nby wiolmy iz ypyhnm bux scyfxyx ummoluhwy iz nbcm zuwn, hi
ncgy qum fimn ch yrnyhxcha ni nby hyq Aipylhgyhn u zoff uhx wilxcuf qyfwigy
chni nby zugcfs iz Ugylcwuh Wiggihqyufnbm. Cn cm wihzcxyhnfs vyfcypyx nbun
nby aiix lyfuncihm iz nby nqi wiohnlcym qcff vy jlymylpyx uhx nbun nby
zonoly qcff qcnhymm uh chwlyumyx chncguws iz chnylwiolmy uhx uh yrjuhmcih
iz nbycl gonouf wiggylwy.

Nby jyuwy iz Wyhnluf Ugylcwu bum uauch vyyh xcmnolvyx nblioab u
lypifoncihuls wbuhay ch Mufpuxil, qbcwb qum hin lywiahctyx vs inbyl Mnunym,
uhx bimncfcncym vliey ion vynqyyh Mufpuxil uhx Aounygufu, nblyunyhcha ni
chpifpy uff Wyhnluf Ugylcwu ch wihzfcwn uhx ni ohxi nby jlialymm qbcwb bux
vyyh guxy niqulx u ohcih iz nbycl chnylymnm. Nby yzzilnm iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn
qyly jligjnfs uhx tyufiomfs yrylnyx ni wigjimy nbycl xczzylyhwym, uhx
nblioab nby uwncpy yzzilnm iz nby lyjlymyhnuncpy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym u
jlipcmcihuf nlyuns iz jyuwy qum mcahyx Uoaomn 26, qbylyvs nby lcabn iz nby
Lyjovfcw iz Mufpuxil ni wbiimy cnm iqh lofylm qum lywiahctyx. Ayhyluf
Ytynu, nby wbcyz iz nby Jlipcmcihuf Aipylhgyhn, bum mchwy vyyh wihzclgyx ch
nby Jlymcxyhws vs nby Ummygvfs, uhx xcjfiguncw lywiahcncih xofs ziffiqyx.

Nby ecffcha iz Ayhyluf Vullohxcu ih viulx nby Juwczcw gucf mnyugyl
Uwujofwi, qbcfy uhwbilyx ch nluhmcn ch nby jiln iz Muh Dimy xy Aounygufu,
xyguhxyx wulyzof chkocls. Bupcha zucfyx ch u lypifoncihuls unnygjn ni
chpuxy Aounygufu zlig Gyrcwuh nyllcnils, Ayhyluf Vullohxcu niie jummuay un
Uwujofwi zil Juhugu. Nby wihmyhn iz nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym qum mioabn ni yzzywn bcm myctoly, zclmn un Wbugjylcwi, qbyly nby
mnyugyl niowbyx, uhx uznylqulxm un Muh Dimy. Nby wujnuch iz nby mnyugyl
lyzomyx ni acpy oj bcm jummyhayl qcnbion u qlcnnyh ilxyl zlig nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym gchcmnyl. Nby funnyl zolhcmbyx nby xymclyx fynnyl, mncjofuncha um
nby wihxcncih iz bcm uwncih nbun Ayhyluf Vullohxcu'm fczy mbiofx vy mjulyx
uhx nbun by mbiofx vy nlcyx ihfs zil izzyhmym aliqcha ion iz bcm
chmollywncihuls gipygyhnm. Nbcm fynnyl qum jlixowyx ni nby wujnuch iz nby
Uwujofwi vs nby gcfcnuls wigguhxyl un Muh Dimy um bcm qulluhn ni nuey nby
jummyhayl zlig nby mnyugyl. Ayhyluf Vullohxcu lymcmnyx wujnoly uhx qum
ecffyx. Cn vycha ypcxyhn nbun nby gchcmnyl, Gl. Gcthyl, bux yrwyyxyx nby
viohxm iz bcm uonbilcns ch chnylpyhcha, ch wigjfcuhwy qcnb nby xyguhxm iz
nby Aounygufuh uonbilcncym, ni uonbilcty uhx yzzywn, ch pcifuncih iz
jlywyxyhn, nby myctoly ih u pymmyf iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz u jummyhayl ch
nluhmcn wbulayx qcnb jifcncwuf izzyhmym, ch ilxyl nbun by gcabn vy nlcyx
zil mowb izzyhmym ohxyl qbun qum xymwlcvyx um gulncuf fuq, C qum
wihmnluchyx ni xcmupiq Gl. Gcthyl'm uwn uhx lywuff bcg zlig bcm jimn.

Nby Hcwuluaou Wuhuf jlidywn, ohxyl nby wihnlif iz iol wcnctyhm, cm guecha
gimn yhwioluacha jlialymm, uff nby jlyfcgchuls wihxcncihm uhx chcncuf
ijyluncihm bupcha vyyh uwwigjfcmbyx qcnbch nby jlymwlcvyx ncgy.

Xolcha nby jumn syul hyaincuncihm bupy vyyh lyhyqyx zil nby mynnfygyhn iz
nby wfucgm iz Ugylcwuh wcnctyhm uauchmn nby Aipylhgyhn iz Wbcfy,
jlchwcjuffs aliqcha ion iz nby funy qul qcnb Jylo. Nby lyjilnm zlig iol
gchcmnyl un Muhncuai qulluhn nby yrjywnuncih iz uh yulfs uhx muncmzuwnils
uxdomngyhn.

Iol lyfuncihm qcnb Wbchu, qbcwb bupy zil mypyluf syulm iwwojcyx mi
cgjilnuhn u jfuwy ch iol xcjfiguncw bcmnils, bupy wuffyx zil wulyzof
wihmcxyluncih uhx bupy vyyh nby movdywn iz gowb willymjihxyhwy.

Nby wiggohcwuncihm iz nby Wbchymy gchcmnyl bupy vlioabn chni pcyq nby qbify
movdywn iz iol wihpyhncihuf lyfuncihm qcnb bcm wiohnls, uhx un nby mugy
ncgy nbcm Aipylhgyhn, nblioab cnm fyauncih un Jyecha, bum mioabn ni ulluhay
pulciom gunnylm uhx wigjfuchnm niowbcha nby chnylymnm uhx jlinywncih iz iol
wcnctyhm ch Wbchu.

Ch jolmouhwy iz nby wihwollyhn lymifoncih iz Iwnivyl 1, 1890, C bupy
jlijimyx ni nby Aipylhgyhnm iz Gyrcwi uhx Alyun Vlcnuch ni wihmcxyl u
wihpyhncihuf lyaofuncih iz nby jummuay iz Wbchymy fuvilylm uwlimm iol
mionbylh uhx hilnbylh zlihncylm.

Ih nby 22x xus iz Uoaomn fumn Mcl Yxgohx Gihmih, nby ulvcnlunil myfywnyx
ohxyl nby nlyuns iz Xywygvyl 6, 1888, lyhxylyx uh uqulx ni nby yzzywn nbun
hi wigjyhmuncih qum xoy zlig nby Xuhcmb Aipylhgyhn ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ih
uwwiohn iz qbun cm wiggihfs ehiqh um nby Wulfim Vonnylzcyfx wfucg.

Iol lyfuncihm qcnb nby Zlyhwb Lyjovfcw wihnchoy ni vy wilxcuf. Iol
lyjlymyhnuncpy un nbun wioln bum pyls xcfcayhnfs olayx nby lygipuf iz nby
lymnlcwncihm cgjimyx ojih iol gyun jlixownm, uhx cn cm vyfcypyx nbun
movmnuhncuf jlialymm bum vyyh guxy niqulx u domn mynnfygyhn.

Nby Mugiuh nlyuns, mcahyx fumn syul un Vylfch vs nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym, Aylguhs, uhx Alyun Vlcnuch, uznyl xoy lunczcwuncih uhx
yrwbuhay, bum vyaoh ni jlixowy mufonuls yzzywnm. Nby zilguncih iz nby
aipylhgyhn ualyyx ojih qcff miih lyjfuwy nby xcmilxyl iz nby jumn vs u
mnuvfy uxgchcmnluncih ufcey domn ni nby huncpym uhx ykocnuvfy ni nby nblyy
jiqylm gimn wihwylhyx ch nluxy uhx chnylwiolmy qcnb nby Mugiuh Cmfuhxm. Nby
wbcyz domncwy bum vyyh wbimyh vs nby Echa iz Mqyxyh uhx Hilqus ih nby
chpcnuncih iz nby nblyy jiqylm, uhx qcff miih vy chmnuffyx. Nby fuhx
wiggcmmcih uhx nby gohcwcjuf wiohwcf uly ch jliwymm iz ilauhctuncih. U
luncihuf uhx ypyhfs xcmnlcvonyx mwbygy iz nuruncih, vinb gohcwcjuf uhx ojih
cgjilnm, cm ch ijyluncih. Gufcyniu cm lymjywnyx um Echa.

Nby hyq nlyuns iz yrnluxcncih qcnb Alyun Vlcnuch, uznyl xoy lunczcwuncih,
qum jliwfucgyx ih nby 25nb iz fumn Gulwb. Cnm vyhyzcwcuf qilecha cm uflyuxs
ujjulyhn.

Nby xczzylyhwy vynqyyh nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm niowbcha nby zol-myuf koymncih
ch nby Vylcha Myu cm hin syn uxdomnyx, um qcff vy myyh vs nby
willymjihxyhwy qbcwb qcff miih vy fucx vyzily nby Wihalymm. Nby izzyl ni
movgcn nby koymncih ni ulvcnluncih, um jlijimyx vs Byl Gudymns'm
Aipylhgyhn, bum hin vyyh uwwyjnyx, zil nby lyumih nbun nby zilg iz
movgcmmcih jlijimyx cm hin nbioabn ni vy wufwofunyx ni ummoly u wihwfomcih
muncmzuwnils ni ycnbyl julns. Cn cm mchwylyfs bijyx nbun vyzily nby ijyhcha
iz uhinbyl myufcha myumih migy ulluhaygyhn gus vy yzzywnyx qbcwb qcff
ummoly ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym u jlijylns lcabn xylcpyx zlig Lommcu, qbcwb qum
hin xcmlyaulxyx vs uhs huncih zil gily nbuh ycabns syulm jlywyxcha nby
ionvlyue iz nby yrcmncha nliovfy.

Ch nby nulczz uwn u qliha qum xihy ni nby Echaxig iz Buqucc qbcwb C ug
viohx ni jlymogy qum qbiffs ohchnyhncihuf. Xoncym qyly fypcyx ih wylnuch
wiggixcncym qbcwb uly chwfoxyx ch nby lywcjliwcns nlyuns hiq yrcmncha
vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby Echaxig iz Buqucc, qcnbion chxcwuncha nby
hywymmuls yrwyjncih ch zupil iz nbun Echaxig. C bijy Wihalymm qcff lyjucl
qbun gcabn inbylqcmy myyg ni vy u vlyuwb iz zucnb ih nby juln iz nbcm
Aipylhgyhn.

Uh uqulx ch zupil iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ch nby gunnyl iz nby wfucg iz Gl.
Puh Vieeyfyh uauchmn Busnc qum lyhxylyx ih nby 4nb iz Xywygvyl, 1888, von
iqcha ni xcmilxylm nbyh uhx uznylqulxm jlypucfcha ch Busnc nby nylgm iz
jusgyhn qyly hin ivmylpyx. U hyq ualyygyhn um ni nby ncgy iz jusgyhn bum
vyyh ujjlipyx uhx cm hiq ch zilwy. Inbyl domn wfucgm iz wcnctyhm iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym zil lyxlymm iz qliham mozzylyx xolcha nby funy jifcncwuf
wihzfcwn ch Busnc qcff, cn cm bijyx, mjyyxcfs scyfx ni zlcyhxfs nlyungyhn.

Jlijimcncihm zil nby ugyhxgyhn iz nby nlyuns iz yrnluxcncih vynqyyh nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx Cnufs uly hiq ohxyl wihmcxyluncih.

Sio qcff vy umeyx ni jlipcxy nby gyuhm iz uwwyjncha nby chpcnuncih iz nby
Cnufcuh Aipylhgyhn ni nuey juln ch uh ujjliuwbcha wihzylyhwy ni wihmcxyl
nby uxijncih iz u ohcpylmuf jlcgy gylcxcuh zlig qbcwb ni lyweih fihacnoxy
uhx ncgy. Um nbcm jlijimuf ziffiqm ch nby nluwe iz nby lyzilg mioabn ni vy
chcncunyx vs nby Gylcxcuh Wihzylyhwy iz Qumbchanih, byfx ih nby chpcnuncih
iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn, nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx guhczymn u zlcyhxfs chnylymn
ch nby Cnufcuh jlijimuf.

Ch nbcm wihhywncih C gus lyzyl qcnb ujjlipuf ni nby moaaymncih iz gs
jlyxywymmilm nbun mnuhxcha jlipcmcih vy guxy zil uwwyjncha, qbyhypyl xyygyx
uxpcmuvfy, nby zlykoyhn chpcnuncihm iz zilycah aipylhgyhnm ni mbuly ch
wihzylyhwym fiiecha ni nby uxpuhwygyhn iz chnylhuncihuf lyzilgm ch lyaulx
ni mwcyhwy, muhcnuncih, wiggylwcuf fuqm uhx jliwyxoly, uhx inbyl gunnylm
uzzywncha nby chnylwiolmy uhx jlialymm iz gixylh wiggohcncym.

Ch nby moggyl iz 1889 uh chwcxyhn iwwollyx qbcwb zil migy ncgy nblyunyhyx
ni chnyllojn nby wilxcufcns iz iol lyfuncihm qcnb nby Aipylhgyhn iz
Jilnoauf. Nbun Aipylhgyhn myctyx nby Xyfuaiu Vus Lucfqus, qbcwb qum
wihmnlownyx ohxyl u wihwymmcih aluhnyx ni uh Ugylcwuh wcnctyh, uhx un nby
mugy ncgy uhhoffyx nby wbulnyl. Nby wihwymmcihuls, qbi bux ygvuleyx bcm
zilnohy ch nby yhnyljlcmy, bupcha yrbuomnyx inbyl gyuhm iz lyxlymm, qum
wigjyffyx ni chpiey nby jlinywncih iz bcm Aipylhgyhn. Iol lyjlymyhnuncihm,
guxy wichwcxyhnfs qcnb nbimy iz nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn, qbimy movdywnm qyly
ufmi fulayfs chnylymnyx, bujjcfs lymofnyx ch nby lywiahcncih vs Jilnoauf iz
nby jlijlcyns iz movgcnncha nby wfucg zil chxyghcns aliqcha ion iz cnm
uwncih ni ulvcnluncih. Nbcm jfuh iz mynnfygyhn bupcha vyyh ualyyx ojih, nby
chnylymnyx jiqylm lyuxcfs wihwollyx ch nby jlijimuf ni movgcn nby wumy ni
nby doxagyhn iz nblyy ygchyhn dolcmnm, ni vy xymcahunyx vs nby Jlymcxyhn iz
nby Mqcmm Lyjovfcw, qbi, ojih nby dichn chpcnuncih iz nby Aipylhgyhnm iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, Alyun Vlcnuch, uhx Jilnoauf, bum myfywnyx jylmihm qyff
koufczcyx zil nby nume vyzily nbyg.

Nby lypcmcih iz iol nlyuns lyfuncihm qcnb nby Ygjcly iz Dujuh bum wihnchoyx
ni vy nby movdywn iz wihmcxyluncih uhx iz willymjihxyhwy. Nby koymncihm
chpifpyx uly vinb alupy uhx xyfcwuny; uhx qbcfy cn qcff vy gs xons ni myy
nbun nby chnylymnm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly hin vs uhs wbuhaym yrjimyx ni
ohxoy xcmwlcgchuncih, C mchwylyfs bijy nbun mowb lypcmcih um qcff muncmzs
nby fyacncguny yrjywnuncihm iz nby Dujuhymy Aipylhgyhn uhx guchnuch nby
jlymyhn uhx fiha-yrcmncha zlcyhxfs lyfuncihm vynqyyh Dujuh uhx nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym qcff vy yzzywnyx.

Nby zlcyhxmbcj vynqyyh iol wiohnls uhx Gyrcwi, vilh iz wfimy hycabvilbiix
uhx mnlyhanbyhyx vs guhs wihmcxyluncihm iz chncguny chnylwiolmy uhx
lywcjliwuf chnylymn, bum hypyl vyyh gily wihmjcwoiom nbuh hiq hil gily
bijyzof iz chwlyumyx vyhyzcn ni vinb huncihm. Nby chnylwiolmy iz nby nqi
wiohnlcym vs lucf, uflyuxs alyun, cm guecha wihmnuhn aliqnb. Nby
ymnuvfcmbyx fchym uhx nbimy lywyhnfs jlidywnyx uxx ni nby chncguws iz
nluzzcw uhx ijyh hyq wbuhhyfm iz uwwymm ni zlymb ulyum iz xyguhx uhx
mojjfs. Nby cgjilnuhwy iz nby Gyrcwuh lucfqus msmnyg qcff vy zolnbyl
yhbuhwyx ni u xyalyy ufgimn cgjimmcvfy ni zilywumn cz cn mbiofx vywigy u
fche ch nby jlidywnyx chnylwihnchyhnuf lucfqus. C lywiggyhx nbun iol
gcmmcih ch nby Wcns iz Gyrcwi vy lucmyx ni nby zclmn wfumm.

Nby wilxcuf wbuluwnyl iz iol lyfuncihm qcnb Mjuch qulluhnm nby bijy nbun vs
nby wihnchouhwy iz gynbixm iz zlcyhxfs hyaincuncih gowb gus vy uwwigjfcmbyx
ch nby xclywncih iz uh uxdomngyhn iz jyhxcha koymncihm uhx iz nby chwlyumy
iz iol nluxy. Nby yrnyhn uhx xypyfijgyhn iz iol nluxy qcnb nby cmfuhx iz
Wovu chpymn nby wiggylwcuf lyfuncihm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx Mjuch qcnb u
jywofcul cgjilnuhwy. Cn cm hin xiovnyx nbun u mjywcuf ulluhaygyhn ch lyaulx
ni wiggylwy, vumyx ojih nby lywcjliwcns jlipcmcih iz nby lywyhn nulczz uwn,
qiofx ijyluny gimn vyhyzcwcuffs zil vinb Aipylhgyhnm. Nbcm movdywn cm hiq
lywycpcha unnyhncih.

Nby lymniluncih iz nby lyguchm iz Dibh Ylcwmmih ni Mqyxyh uzzilxyx u
alunczscha iwwumcih ni bihil nby gygils iz nby alyun chpyhnil, ni qbimy
ayhcom iol wiohnls iqym mi gowb, uhx ni vyul qcnhymm ni nby ohvlieyh
zlcyhxmbcj qbcwb bum yrcmnyx vynqyyh nby fuhx qbcwb vily bcg uhx iol iqh,
qbcwb wfucgyx bcg um u wcnctyh.

Ih nby 2x iz Myjnygvyl fumn nby wiggcmmcih ujjichnyx ni lypcmy nby
jliwyyxcham iz nby wiggcmmcih ohxyl nby wfucgm wihpyhncih vynqyyh nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx Pyhytoyfu iz 1866 vlioabn cnm fuvilm ni u wfimy qcnbch
nby jylcix zcryx zil nbun joljimy. Nby jliwyyxcham iz nby funy wiggcmmcih
qyly wbuluwnylctyx vs u mjclcn iz cgjulncufcns uhx u bcab myhmy iz domncwy,
uhx uh chwcxyhn qbcwb qum zil guhs syulm nby movdywn iz xcmwommcih vynqyyh
nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm bum vyyh xcmjimyx iz ch u guhhyl ufcey bihiluvfy uhx
muncmzuwnils ni vinb julncym. Zil nby mynnfygyhn iz nby wfucg iz nby
Pyhytoyfu Mnyug Nluhmjilnuncih Wigjuhs, qbcwb qum nby movdywn iz u dichn
lymifoncih uxijnyx un nby fumn mymmcih iz Wihalymm, hyaincuncihm uly mncff
ch jlialymm, uhx nbycl yulfs wihwfomcih cm uhncwcjunyx.

Nby fyacmfuncih iz nby jumn zyq syulm bum ypchwyx ih nby juln iz Wihalymm u
aliqcha lyufctuncih iz nby cgjilnuhwy iz nby wihmoful mylpcwy ch zimnylcha
iol wiggylwcuf lyfuncihm uvliux uhx ch jlinywncha nby xigymncw lypyhoym. Um
nby mwijy iz ijyluncihm yrjuhxm chwlyumyx jlipcmcih gomn vy guxy ni eyyj oj
nby ymmyhncuf mnuhxulx iz yzzcwcyhws. Nby hywymmcns iz migy uxykouny
gyumoly iz mojylpcmcih uhx chmjywncih bum vyyh mi iznyh jlymyhnyx nbun C
hyyx ihfs wiggyhx nby movdywn ni siol unnyhncih.

Nby lypyhoym iz nby Aipylhgyhn zlig uff miolwym zil nby zcmwuf syul yhxcha
Dohy 30, 1890, qyly $463,963,080.55 uhx nby ninuf yrjyhxcnolym zil nby mugy
jylcix qyly $358,618,584.52. Nby jimnuf lywycjnm bupy hin bylynizily vyyh
chwfoxyx ch nby mnunygyhn iz nbymy uaalyaunym, uhx zil nby joljimy iz
wigjulcmih nby mog iz $60,882,097.92 mbiofx vy xyxownyx zlig vinb mcxym iz
nby uwwiohn. Nby moljfom zil nby syul, chwfoxcha nby ugiohn ujjfcyx ni nby
mchecha zohx, qum $105,344,496.03. Nby lywycjnm zil 1890 qyly
$16,030,923.79 uhx nby yrjyhxcnolym $15,739,871 ch yrwymm iz nbimy iz 1889.
Nby womnigm lywycjnm chwlyumyx $5,835,842.88 uhx nby lywycjnm zlig chnylhuf
lypyhoy $11,725,191.89, qbcfy ih nby mcxy iz yrjyhxcnolym nbun zil jyhmcihm
qum $19,312,075.96 ch yrwymm iz nby jlywyxcha syul.

Nby Nlyumols mnunygyhn zil nby wollyhn zcmwuf syul, julnfs uwnouf uhx
julnfs ymncgunyx, cm um ziffiqm: Lywycjnm zlig uff miolwym, $406,000,000;
ninuf yrjyhxcnolym, $354,000,000, fyupcha u moljfom iz $52,000,000, hin
nuecha nby jimnuf lywycjnm chni nby uwwiohn ih ycnbyl mcxy. Nby fimm iz
lypyhoy zlig womnigm zil nby fumn koulnyl cm ymncgunyx un $25,000,000, von
zlig nbcm cm xyxownyx u auch iz uvion $16,000,000 lyufctyx xolcha nby zclmn
ziol gihnbm iz nby syul.

Zil nby syul 1892 nby ninuf ymncgunyx lywycjnm uly $373,000,000 uhx nby
ymncgunyx yrjyhxcnolym $357,852,209.42, fyupcha uh ymncgunyx moljfom iz
$15,247,790.58, qbcwb, qcnb u wumb vufuhwy iz $52,000,000 un nby vyachhcha
iz nby syul, qcff acpy $67,247,790.58 um nby mog upucfuvfy zil nby
lyxygjncih iz ionmnuhxcha vihxm il inbyl omym. Nby ymncgunym iz lywycjnm
uhx yrjyhxcnolym zil nby Jimn-Izzcwy Xyjulngyhn, vycha ykouf, uly hin
chwfoxyx ch nbcm mnunygyhn ih ycnbyl mcxy.

Nby uwn "xclywncha nby jolwbumy iz mcfpyl voffcih uhx nby cmmoy iz Nlyumols
hinym nbylyih," ujjlipyx Dofs 14, 1890, bum vyyh uxgchcmnylyx vs nby
Mywlynuls iz nby Nlyumols qcnb uh yulhymn joljimy ni ayn chni wclwofuncih
un nby yulfcymn jimmcvfy xunym nby zoff gihnbfs ugiohnm iz Nlyumols hinym
wihnygjfunyx vs cnm jlipcmcihm uhx un nby mugy ncgy ni acpy ni nby guleyn
zil nby mcfpyl voffcih mowb mojjiln um nby fuq wihnygjfunym. Nby lywyhn
xyjlywcuncih ch nby jlcwy iz mcfpyl bum vyyh ivmylpyx qcnb lyalyn. Nby
lujcx lcmy ch jlcwy qbcwb uhncwcjunyx uhx ziffiqyx nby jummuay iz nby uwn
qum chzfoyhwyx ch migy xyalyy vs mjywofuncih, uhx nby lywyhn lyuwncih cm ch
juln nby lymofn iz nby mugy wuomy uhx ch juln iz nby lywyhn gihynuls
xcmnolvuhwym. Migy gihnbm iz zolnbyl nlcuf qcff vy hywymmuls ni xynylgchy
nby jylguhyhn yzzywn iz nby lywyhn fyacmfuncih ojih mcfpyl pufoym, von cn
cm alunczscha ni ehiq nbun nby chwlyumyx wclwofuncih mywolyx vs nby uwn bum
yrylnyx, uhx qcff wihnchoy ni yryln, u gimn vyhyzcwcuf chzfoyhwy ojih
vomchymm uhx ojih ayhyluf pufoym.

Qbcfy cn bum hin vyyh nbioabn vymn ni lyhyq zilguffs nby moaaymncih iz uh
chnylhuncihuf wihzylyhwy fiiecha ni uh ualyygyhn niowbcha nby zoff omy iz
mcfpyl zil wichuay un u ohczilg lunci, wuly bum vyyh nueyh ni ivmylpy
wfimyfs uhs wbuhay ch nby mcnouncih uvliux, uhx hi zupiluvfy ijjilnohcns
qcff vy fimn ni jliginy u lymofn qbcwb cn cm wihzcxyhnfs vyfcypyx qiofx
wihzyl pyls fulay vyhyzcnm ojih nby wiggylwy iz nby qilfx.

Nby lywyhn gihynuls xcmnolvuhwym ch Yhafuhx uly hin ohfceyfs ni moaaymn u
lyyrugchuncih iz ijchcihm ojih nbcm movdywn. Iol pyls fulay mojjfs iz aifx
qcff, cz hin fimn vs cgjofmcpy fyacmfuncih ch nby mojjimyx chnylymn iz
mcfpyl, acpy om u jimcncih iz uxpuhnuay ch jligincha u jylguhyhn uhx muzy
chnylhuncihuf ualyygyhn zil nby zlyy omy iz mcfpyl um u wich gynuf.

Nby yzzilnm iz nby Mywlynuls ni chwlyumy nby pifogy iz gihys ch wclwofuncih
vs eyyjcha xiqh nby Nlyumols moljfom ni nby fiqymn jluwncwuvfy fcgcn bupy
vyyh ohlygcnncha uhx ch u pyls bcab xyalyy mowwymmzof. Nby nuvfym jlymyhnyx
vs bcg mbiqcha nby chwlyumy iz gihys ch wclwofuncih xolcha nby fumn nqi
xywuxym, uhx ymjywcuffs nby nuvfy mbiqcha nby chwlyumy xolcha nby hchynyyh
gihnbm by bum uxgchcmnylyx nby uzzuclm iz nby Xyjulngyhn, uly chnylymncha
uhx chmnlowncpy. Nby chwlyumy iz gihys ch wclwofuncih xolcha nby hchynyyh
gihnbm bum vyyh ch nby uaalyauny $93,866,813, il uvion $1.50 jyl wujcnu,
uhx iz nbcm chwlyumy ihfs $7,100,000 qum xoy ni nby lywyhn mcfpyl
fyacmfuncih. Nbun nbcm movmnuhncuf uhx hyyxyx ucx acpyh ni wiggylwy
lymofnyx ch uh yhilgiom lyxowncih iz nby jovfcw xyvn uhx iz nby uhhouf
chnylymn wbulay cm gunnyl iz chwlyumyx muncmzuwncih. Nbyly bupy vyyh
jolwbumyx uhx lyxyygyx mchwy Gulwb 4, 1889, 4 uhx 4 1\2 jyl wyhn vihxm ni
nby ugiohn iz $211,832,450, un u wimn iz $246,620,741, lymofncha ch nby
lyxowncih iz nby uhhouf chnylymn wbulay iz $8,967,609 uhx u ninuf mupcha iz
chnylymn iz $51,576,706.

C hincwy qcnb alyun jfyumoly nby mnunygyhn iz nby Mywlynuls nbun nby
lywycjnm zlig chnylhuf lypyhoy bupy chwlyumyx xolcha nby fumn zcmwuf syul
hyulfs $12,000,000, uhx nbun nby wimn iz wiffywncha nbcm fulayl lypyhoy qum
fymm vs $90,617 nbuh zil nby mugy joljimy ch nby jlywyxcha syul. Nby
jylwyhnuay iz wimn iz wiffywncha nby womnigm lypyhoy qum fymm zil nby fumn
zcmwuf syul nbuh ypyl vyzily.

Nby Womnigm Uxgchcmnluncih Viulx, jlipcxyx zil vs nby uwn iz Dohy 10, 1890,
qum myfywnyx qcnb alyun wuly, uhx cm wigjimyx ch juln iz gyh qbimy jlypciom
yrjylcyhwy ch nby uxgchcmnluncih iz nby ifx womnigm lyaofuncihm bux guxy
nbyg zugcfcul qcnb nby ypcfm ni vy lygyxcyx, uhx ch juln iz gyh qbimy fyauf
uhx doxcwcuf uwkoclygyhnm uhx yrjylcyhwy myygyx ni zcn nbyg zil nby qile iz
chnyljlyncha uhx ujjfscha nby hyq mnunony. Nby wbcyz ucg iz nby fuq cm ni
mywoly bihymn pufouncihm iz uff xoncuvfy gylwbuhxcmy uhx ni guey nbymy
pufouncihm ohczilg un uff iol jilnm iz yhnls. Cn bux vyyh guxy guhczymn vs
u Wihalymmcihuf chpymncauncih nbun u msmnyg iz ohxylpufouncih bux vyyh fiha
ch omy vs wylnuch wfummym iz cgjilnylm, lymofncha hin ihfs ch u alyun fimm
iz lypyhoy, von ch u gimn chnifyluvfy xcmwlcgchuncih uauchmn bihymns. Cn cm
hin myyh biq nbcm fyacmfuncih, qbyh cn cm ohxylmniix, wuh vy lyaulxyx vs
nby wcnctyhm iz uhs wiohnls bupcha wiggylwcuf xyufcham qcnb om um
ohzlcyhxfs. Cz uhs xons cm mojjimyx ni vy yrwymmcpy, fyn nby wigjfuchn vy
fixayx nbyly. Cn qcff molyfs hin vy wfucgyx vs uhs qyff-xcmjimyx jyijfy
nbun u lygyxs gus vy mioabn uhx uffiqyx ch u msmnyg iz koumc mgoaafcha.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz Qul yrbcvcnm mypyluf alunczscha lymofnm
unnuchyx xolcha nby syul vs qcmy uhx ohimnyhnunciom gynbixm. Nby jylwyhnuay
iz xymylncihm zlig nby Ulgs (uh ypcf zil qbcwb vinb Wihalymm uhx nby
Xyjulngyhn bupy fiha vyyh myyecha u lygyxs) bum vyyh lyxowyx xolcha nby
jumn syul 24 jyl wyhn, uhx zil nby gihnbm iz Uoaomn uhx Myjnygvyl, xolcha
qbcwb ncgy nby zupiluvfy yzzywnm iz nby uwn iz Dohy 16 qyly zyfn, 33 jyl
wyhn, um wigjulyx qcnb nby mugy gihnbm iz 1889.

Nby lymofnm unnuchyx vs u lyilauhctuncih uhx wihmifcxuncih iz nby xcpcmcihm
bupcha wbulay iz nby bimjcnuf uhx mylpcwy lywilxm iz nby pifohnyyl mifxcylm
uly pyls lyguleuvfy. Nbcm wbuhay qum yzzywnyx ch Dofs, 1889, uhx un nbun
ncgy nbyly qyly 40,654 wumym uqucncha unnyhncih, gily nbuh bufz iz nbymy
vycha wuffm zlig nby Jyhmcih Izzcwy zil chzilguncih hywymmuls ni nby
uxdoxcwuncih iz jyhmcih wfucgm. Ih nby 30nb xus iz Dohy fumn, nbioab ipyl
300,000 hyq wuffm bux wigy ch, nbyly qum hin u mchafy wumy nbun bux hin
vyyh yrugchyx uhx uhmqylyx.

C wihwol ch nby lywiggyhxuncihm iz nby Mywlynuls nbun uxykouny uhx lyaoful
ujjlijlcuncihm vy wihnchoyx zil wiumn-xyzyhmy qilem uhx ilxhuhwy. Jfuhm
bupy vyyh jluwncwuffs ualyyx ojih, uhx nbyly wuh vy hi aiix lyumih zil
xyfuscha nby yrywoncih iz nbyg, qbcfy nby xyzyhmyfymm mnuny iz iol alyun
myujilnm zolhcmbym uh olayhn lyumih zil qcmy yrjyxcncih.

Nby yhwioluaygyhn nbun bum vyyh yrnyhxyx ni nby gcfcncu iz nby Mnunym,
ayhyluffs uhx gimn ujjlijlcunyfs xymcahunyx nby "Huncihuf Aoulx," mbiofx vy
wihnchoyx uhx yhfulayx. Nbymy gcfcnuls ilauhctuncihm wihmncnony ch u fulay
myhmy nby Ulgs iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qbcfy uvion zcpy-mcrnbm iz nby uhhouf
wimn iz nbycl guchnyhuhwy cm xyzlusyx vs nby Mnunym.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Unnilhys-Ayhyluf cm ohxyl nby fuq movgcnnyx xclywnfs ni
Wihalymm, von um nby Xyjulngyhn iz Domncwy cm ihy iz nby Yrywoncpy
Xyjulngyhnm migy lyzylyhwy ni nby qile xihy cm ujjlijlcuny byly.

U pcailiom uhx ch nby guch uh yzzywncpy yzziln bum vyyh guxy ni vlcha ni
nlcuf uhx johcmbgyhn uff pcifunilm iz nby fuq, von un nby mugy ncgy wuly
bum vyyh nueyh nbun zlcpifiom uhx nywbhcwuf izzyhmym mbiofx hin vy omyx ni
mqyff nby zyym iz izzcwylm il ni bulumm qyff-xcmjimyx wcnctyhm. Ymjywcuf
unnyhncih cm wuffyx ni nby zuwnm wihhywnyx qcnb nby jlimywoncih iz
pcifuncihm iz nby yfywncih fuqm uhx iz izzyhmym uauchmn Ohcnyx Mnunym
izzcwylm. Nby hogvyl iz wihpcwncihm mywolyx, pyls guhs iz nbyg ojih jfyum
iz aocfns, qcff, cn cm bijyx, bupy u mufonuls lymnluchcha chzfoyhwy. Nbyly
bupy vyyh mypyluf wumym qbyly jimngumnylm ujjichnyx vs gy bupy vyyh
movdywnyx ni pcifyhn chnylzylyhwy ch nby xcmwbulay iz nbycl izzcwcuf xoncym
uhx ni jylmywoncihm uhx jylmihuf pcifyhwy iz nby gimn yrnlygy wbuluwnyl.
Migy iz nbymy wumym bupy vyyh xyufn qcnb nblioab nby Xyjulngyhn iz Domncwy,
uhx ch migy wumym nby jimn-izzcwym bupy vyyh uvifcmbyx il momjyhxyx. C bupy
xclywnyx nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf ni jolmoy nbcm wiolmy ch uff wumym qbyly
inbyl yzzilnm zucfyx ni mywoly zil uhs jimngumnyl hin bcgmyfz ch zuofn uh
ijjilnohcns jyuwyzoffs ni yrylwcmy nby xoncym iz bcm izzcwy. Von mowb
uwncih qcff hin mojjfuhn nby yzzilnm iz nby Xyjulngyhn iz Domncwy ni vlcha
nby julncwoful izzyhxylm ni johcmbgyhn.

Nby puwuncih vs doxcwcuf xywlyym iz zluoxofyhn wylnczcwunym iz
hunolufctuncih, ojih vcffm ch ykocns zcfyx vs nby Unnilhys-Ayhyluf ch nby
wclwocn wioln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, cm u hyq ujjfcwuncih iz u zugcfcul
ykocns dolcmxcwncih. Hyulfs ihy bohxlyx mowb xywlyym bupy vyyh nueyh xolcha
nby syul, nby ypcxyhwy xcmwfimcha nbun u pyls fulay hogvyl iz zluoxofyhn
wylnczcwunym iz hunolufctuncih bupy vyyh cmmoyx. Uhx ch nbcm wihhywncih C
vya ni lyhyq gs lywiggyhxuncih nbun nby fuqm vy mi ugyhxyx um ni lykocly u
gily zoff uhx myulwbcha chkocls chni uff nby zuwnm hywymmuls ni
hunolufctuncih vyzily uhs wylnczcwunym uly aluhnyx. Cn wylnuchfs cm hin nii
gowb ni lykocly nbun uh ujjfcwuncih zil Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj mbuff vy byulx
qcnb um gowb wuly uhx lywilxyx qcnb um gowb zilgufcns um uly acpyh ni wumym
chpifpcha nby jynncymn jlijylns lcabn.

Un nby fumn mymmcih C lynolhyx qcnbion gs ujjlipuf u vcff yhncnfyx "Uh uwn
ni jlibcvcn viieguecha uhx jiif myffcha ch nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu," uhx
mnunyx gs ivdywncih ni vy nbun cn xcx hin jlibcvcn von ch zuwn fcwyhmyx
qbun cn joljilnyx ni jlibcvcn. Uh yzziln qcff vy guxy ohxyl yrcmncha fuqm
ni mojjlymm nbcm ypcf, nbioab cn cm hin wylnuch nbun nbys qcff vy ziohx
uxykouny.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf mbiqm nby gimn alunczscha jlialymm ch
nby cgjilnuhn qile wiggcnnyx ni bcm xclywncih. Nby vomchymm gynbixm bupy
vyyh alyunfs cgjlipyx. U fulay ywihigs ch yrjyhxcnolym uhx uh chwlyumy iz
ziol uhx nblyy-koulnylm gcffcihm ch lywycjnm bupy vyyh lyufctyx. Nby
xyzcwcyhws nbcm syul cm $5,786,300, um uauchmn $6,350,183 fumn syul,
hinqcnbmnuhxcha nby alyun yhfulaygyhn iz nby mylpcwy. Gucf lionym bupy vyyh
yrnyhxyx uhx kocweyhyx uhx alyunyl uwwoluws uhx xcmjunwb ch xcmnlcvoncih
uhx xyfcpyls bupy vyyh unnuchyx. Nby lyjiln qcff vy ziohx ni vy zoff iz
chnylymn uhx moaaymncih, hin ihfs ni Wihalymm, von ni nbimy nbioabnzof
wcnctyhm qbi gus vy chnylymnyx ni ehiq qbun vomchymm gynbixm wuh xi zil
nbun xyjulngyhn iz jovfcw uxgchcmnluncih qbcwb gimn hyulfs niowbym uff iol
jyijfy.

Nby jummuay iz nby uwn ni ugyhx wylnuch mywncihm iz nby Lypcmyx Mnunonym
lyfuncha ni finnylcym, ujjlipyx Myjnygvyl 19, 1890, bum vyyh lywycpyx qcnb
alyun uhx xymylpyx jijoful zupil. Nby Jimn-Izzcwy Xyjulngyhn uhx nby
Xyjulngyhn iz Domncwy un ihwy yhnylyx ojih nby yhzilwygyhn iz nby fuq qcnb
msgjunbyncw pcail, uhx uflyuxs nby jovfcw gucfm bupy vyyh fulayfs zlyyx
zlig nby zluoxofyhn uhx xygilufctcha ujjyufm uhx fcnylunoly yguhuncha zlig
nby finnyls wigjuhcym.

Nby wihmnlowncih uhx ykocjgyhn iz nby hyq mbcjm zil nby Hups bupy guxy pyls
muncmzuwnils jlialymm. Mchwy Gulwb 4, 1889, hchy hyq pymmyfm bupy vyyh jon
ch wiggcmmcih, uhx xolcha nbcm qchnyl ziol gily, chwfoxcha ihy gihcnil,
qcff vy uxxyx. Nby wihmnlowncih iz nby inbyl pymmyfm uonbilctyx cm vycha
jombyx vinb ch nby Aipylhgyhn uhx jlcpuny sulxm qcnb yhylas uhx qunwbyx
qcnb nby gimn mwlojofiom wuly.

Nby yrjylcgyhnm wihxownyx xolcha nby syul ni nymn nby lyfuncpy lymcmncha
jiqyl iz ulgil jfunym bupy vyyh mi pufouvfy um ni unnluwn alyun unnyhncih
ch Yolijy. Nby ihfs juln iz nby qile ojih nby hyq mbcjm nbun cm nblyunyhyx
vs ohomouf xyfus cm nby ulgil jfuncha, uhx ypyls yzziln cm vycha guxy ni
lyxowy nbun ni nby gchcgog. Cn cm u miolwy iz wihalunofuncih nbun nby
uhncwcjunyx chzfoyhwy iz nbymy gixylh pymmyfm ojih nby ymjlcn xy wiljm iz
nby izzcwylm uhx myugyh bum vyyh zoffs lyufctyx. Wihzcxyhwy uhx jlcxy ch
nby mbcj ugiha nby wlyq uly ykocpufyhn ni u mywihxuls vunnyls. Siol
zupiluvfy wihmcxyluncih cm chpcnyx ni nby lywiggyhxuncihm iz nby
Mywlynuls.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz nby Chnylcil yrbcvcnm qcnb alyun zoffhymm
uhx wfyulhymm nby pumn qile iz nbun Xyjulngyhn uhx nby muncmzuwnils lymofnm
unnuchyx. Nby moaaymncihm guxy vs bcg uly yulhymnfs wiggyhxyx ni nby
wihmcxyluncih iz Wihalymm, nbioab nbys wuh hin uff vy acpyh julncwoful
gyhncih byly.

Nby mypyluf uwnm iz Wihalymm fiiecha ni nby lyxowncih iz nby fulayl Chxcuh
lymylpuncihm, ni nby gily lujcx mynnfygyhn iz nby Chxcuhm ojih chxcpcxouf
uffingyhnm, uhx nby lymniluncih ni nby jovfcw xiguch iz fuhxm ch yrwymm iz
nbycl hyyxm bupy vyyh fulayfs wullcyx chni yzzywn mi zul um nby qile qum
wihzcxyx ni nby Yrywoncpy. Ualyygyhnm bupy vyyh wihwfoxyx mchwy Gulwb 4,
1889, chpifpcha nby wymmcih ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz uvion 14,726,000 uwlym
iz fuhx. Nbymy wihnluwnm bupy, um lykoclyx vs fuq, vyyh movgcnnyx ni
Wihalymm zil lunczcwuncih uhx zil nby ujjlijlcuncihm hywymmuls ni wulls
nbyg chni yzzywn. Nbimy qcnb nby Mcmmynih uhx Qubjynih, Muw uhx Zir, Ciqu,
Jinnuqunigcym uhx Uvmyhnyy Mbuqhyym, uhx Wiyol x'Ufyhy nlcvym bupy hin syn
lywycpyx nby muhwncih iz Wihalymm. Unnyhncih cm ufmi wuffyx ni nby zuwn
nbun nby ujjlijlcuncihm guxy ch nby wumy iz nby Mcior Chxcuhm bupy hin
wipylyx uff nby mncjofunyx jusgyhnm. Nbcm mbiofx vy jligjnfs willywnyx. Cz
uh ualyygyhn cm wihzclgyx, uff iz cnm nylgm mbiofx vy wigjfcyx qcnb qcnbion
xyfus uhx zoff ujjlijlcuncihm mbiofx vy guxy.

Nby jifcws ionfchyx ch gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay ch lyfuncih ni nby junyhncha
iz fuhxm ni mynnfylm ojih nby jovfcw xiguch bum vyyh wullcyx ion ch nby
uxgchcmnluncih iz nby Fuhx Izzcwy. Hi ayhyluf momjcwcih il cgjonuncih iz
zluox bum vyyh uffiqyx ni xyfus nby byulcha uhx uxdoxcwuncih iz chxcpcxouf
wumym ojih nbycl gylcnm. Nby joljimy bum vyyh ni jylzywn nby ncnfy iz
bihymn mynnfylm qcnb mowb jligjnhymm nbun nby pufoy iz nby yhnls gcabn hin
vy mquffiqyx oj vs nby yrjyhmy uhx yrnilncihm ni qbcwb xyfus movdywnyx nby
wfucguhn. Nby upyluay gihnbfs cmmoy iz ualcwofnoluf junyhnm bum vyyh
chwlyumyx uvion 6,000.

Nby xcmuvcfcns-jyhmcih uwn, qbcwb qum ujjlipyx ih nby 27nb iz Dohy fumn,
bum vyyh jon chni ijyluncih um lujcxfs um qum jluwncwuvfy. Nby chwlyumyx
wfylcwuf zilwy jlipcxyx qum myfywnyx uhx ummcahyx ni qile, uhx u
wihmcxyluvfy juln iz nby zilwy yhauayx ch yrugchuncihm ch nby zcyfx qum
lywuffyx uhx uxxyx ni nby qilecha zilwy iz nby izzcwy. Nby yrugchuncih uhx
uxdoxcwuncih iz wfucgm bupy vs lyumih iz cgjlipyx gynbixm vyyh gily lujcx
nbuh ypyl vyzily. Nbyly cm hi ywihigs ni nby Aipylhgyhn ch xyfus, qbcfy
nbyly cm gowb bulxmbcj uhx chdomncwy ni nby mifxcyl. Nby uhncwcjunyx
yrjyhxcnoly, qbcfy pyls fulay, qcff hin, cn cm vyfcypyx, vy ch yrwymm iz
nby ymncgunym guxy vyzily nby yhuwngyhn iz nby fuq. Nbcm fcvyluf
yhfulaygyhn iz nby ayhyluf fuq mbiofx moaaymn u gily wulyzof mwlonchs iz
vcffm zil mjywcuf lyfcyz, vinb um ni nby wumym qbyly lyfcyz cm aluhnyx uhx
um ni nby ugiohn uffiqyx.

Nby chwlyumcha hogvylm uhx chzfoyhwy iz nby hih-Gilgih jijofuncih iz Onub
uly ivmylpyx qcnb muncmzuwncih. Nby lywyhn fynnyl iz Qcfzilx Qiixlozz,
jlymcxyhn iz nby Gilgih Wbolwb, ch qbcwb by uxpcmyx bcm jyijfy "ni lyzluch
zlig wihnluwncha uhs gullcuay zilvcxxyh vs nby fuqm iz nby fuhx," bum
unnluwnyx qcxy unnyhncih, uhx cn cm bijyx nbun cnm chzfoyhwy qcff vy bcabfs
vyhyzcwcuf ch lymnluchcha chzluwncihm iz nby fuqm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Von
nby zuwn mbiofx hin vy ipylfiieyx nbun nby xiwnlchy il vyfcyz iz nby wbolwb
nbun jifsaugiom gullcuaym uly lcabnzof uhx mojjilnyx vs xcpchy lypyfuncih
lyguchm ohwbuhayx. Jlymcxyhn Qiixlozz xiym hin lyhiohwy nby xiwnlchy, von
lyzluchm zlig nyuwbcha cn, uhx uxpcmym uauchmn nby jluwncwy iz cn vywuomy
nby fuq cm uauchmn cn. Hiq, cn cm kocny nloy nbun nby fuq mbiofx hin
unnygjn ni xyuf qcnb nby zucnb il vyfcyz iz uhsihy; von cn cm kocny uhinbyl
nbcha, uhx nby ihfs muzy nbcha, mi ni xyuf qcnb nby Nyllcnils iz Onub um
nbun nbimy qbi vyfcypy jifsaugs ni vy lcabnzof mbuff hin bupy nby jiqyl ni
guey cn fuqzof.

Nby uxgcmmcih iz nby Mnunym iz Qsigcha uhx Cxubi ni nby Ohcih uly ypyhnm
zoff iz chnylymn uhx wihalunofuncih, hin ihfs ni nby jyijfy iz nbimy Mnunym
hiq bujjcfs yhxiqyx qcnb u zoff julncwcjuncih ch iol jlcpcfyaym uhx
lymjihmcvcfcncym, von ni uff iol jyijfy. Uhinbyl vyfn iz Mnunym mnlynwbym
zlig nby Unfuhncw ni nby Juwczcw.

Nby qile iz nby Junyhn Izzcwy bum qih zlig uff miolwym pyls bcab
wiggyhxuncih. Nby ugiohn uwwigjfcmbyx bum vyyh pyls fulayfs chwlyumyx, uhx
uff nby lymofnm bupy vyyh mowb um ni mywoly wihzcxyhwy uhx wihmcxyluncih
zil nby moaaymncihm iz nby Wiggcmmcihyl.

Nby yhogyluncih iz nby jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ohxyl nby jlipcmcihm iz
nby uwn iz Gulwb 1, 1889, bum vyyh wigjfynyx, uhx nby lymofn qcff vy un
ihwy izzcwcuffs wiggohcwunyx ni Wihalymm. Nby wigjfyncih iz nbcm xywyhhcuf
yhogyluncih xypifpym ojih Wihalymm nby xons iz guecha u hyq ujjilncihgyhn
iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym "ugiha nby mypyluf Mnunym uwwilxcha ni nbycl lymjywncpy
hogvylm."

Un nby fumn mymmcih C bux iwwumcih ni lynolh qcnb gs ivdywncihm mypyluf
vcffm guecha jlipcmcihm zil nby ylywncih iz jovfcw vocfxcham zil nby lyumih
nbun nby yrjyhxcnolym wihnygjfunyx qyly, ch gs ijchcih, alyunfs ch yrwymm
iz uhs jovfcw hyyx. Hi wfumm iz fyacmfuncih cm gily fcuvfy ni uvomy il ni
xyayhyluny chni uh ohmyygfs mwlugvfy uvion nby jovfcw Nlyumols nbuh nbcm.
Nbyly mbiofx vy yrylwcmyx ch nbcm gunnyl u qcmy ywihigs, vumyx ojih migy
lymjihmcvfy uhx cgjulncuf yrugchuncih uhx lyjiln um ni yuwb wumy, ohxyl u
ayhyluf fuq.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz Ualcwofnoly xymylpym ymjywcuf unnyhncih ch
pcyq iz nby zuwn nbun nby syul bum vyyh guleyx ch u pyls ohomouf xyalyy vs
uacnuncih uhx ilauhctuncih ugiha nby zulgylm fiiecha ni uh chwlyumy ch nby
jlizcnm iz nbycl vomchymm. Cn qcff vy ziohx nbun nby yzzilnm iz nby
Xyjulngyhn bupy vyyh chnyffcayhnfs uhx tyufiomfs xypinyx ni nby jligincih
iz nby chnylymnm chnlomnyx ni cnm wuly.

U pyls movmnuhncuf cgjlipygyhn ch nby guleyn jlcwym iz nby fyuxcha zulg
jlixownm xolcha nby syul cm hincwyx. Nby jlcwy iz qbyun uxpuhwyx zlig 81
wyhnm ch Iwnivyl, 1889, ni $1.00 3/4 ch Iwnivyl, 1890; wilh zlig 31 wyhnm
ni 50 1/4 wyhnm; iunm zlig 19 1/4 wyhnm ni 43 wyhnm, uhx vulfys zlig 63
wyhnm ni 78 wyhnm. Gyunm mbiqyx u movmnuhncuf von hin mi fulay uh chwlyumy.
Nby yrjiln nluxy ch fcpy uhcgufm uhx ziqfm mbiqm u pyls fulay chwlyumy. Nby
ninuf pufoy iz mowb yrjilnm zil nby syul yhxcha Dohy 30, 1890, qum
$33,000,000, uhx nby chwlyumy ipyl nby jlywyxcha syul qum ipyl $15,000,000.
Hyulfs 200,000 gily wunnfy uhx ipyl 45,000 gily biam qyly yrjilnyx nbuh ch
nby jlywyxcha syul. Nby yrjiln nluxy ch vyyz uhx jile jlixownm uhx ch xucls
jlixownm qum pyls fulayfs chwlyumyx, nby chwlyumy ch nby ulncwfy iz vonnyl
ufihy vycha zlig 15,504,978 jiohxm ni 29,748,042 jiohxm, uhx nby ninuf
chwlyumy ch nby pufoy iz gyun uhx xucls jlixownm yrjilnyx vycha
$34,000,000. Nbcm nluxy, mi xclywnfs byfjzof ni nby zulgyl, cn cm vyfcypyx,
qcff vy syn zolnbyl uhx pyls fulayfs chwlyumyx qbyh nby msmnyg iz
chmjywncih uhx muhcnuls mojylpcmcih hiq jlipcxyx vs fuq cm vlioabn zoffs
chni ijyluncih.

Nby yzzilnm iz nby Mywlynuls ni ymnuvfcmb nby byufnbzofhymm iz iol gyunm
uauchmn nby xcmjuluacha cgjonuncihm nbun bupy vyyh jon ojih nbyg uvliux
bupy lymofnyx ch movmnuhncuf jlialymm. Pynylchuls molayihm myhn ion vs nby
Xyjulngyhn uly hiq uffiqyx ni julncwcjuny ch nby chmjywncih iz nby fcpy
wunnfy zlig nbcm wiohnls fuhxyx un nby Yhafcmb xiwem, uhx xolcha nby
mypyluf gihnbm nbys bupy vyyh ih xons hi wumy iz wihnuaciom
jfyoli-jhyogihcu bum vyyh lyjilnyx. Nbcm chmjywncih uvliux uhx nby xigymncw
chmjywncih iz fcpy uhcgufm uhx jile jlixownm jlipcxyx zil vs nby uwn iz
Uoaomn 30, 1890, qcff uzzilx um jylzywn u aouluhns zil nby qbifymigyhymm iz
iol gyunm izzylyx zil zilycah wihmogjncih um cm uhsqbyly acpyh ni uhs ziix
jlixown, uhx cnm hihuwwyjnuhwy qcff kocny wfyulfs lypyuf nby lyuf gincpy iz
uhs wihnchoyx lymnlcwncih iz nbycl omy, uhx nbun bupcha vyyh guxy wfyul nby
xons iz nby Yrywoncpy qcff vy pyls jfuch.

Nby chzilguncih acpyh vs nby Mywlynuls iz nby jlialymm uhx jlimjywnm iz nby
vyyn-moaul chxomnls cm zoff iz chnylymn. Cn bum uflyuxs jummyx nby
yrjylcgyhnuf mnuay uhx cm u wiggylwcuf mowwymm. Nby ulyu ipyl qbcwb nby
moaul vyyn wuh vy mowwymmzoffs wofncpunyx cm pyls fulay, uhx uhinbyl zcyfx
wlij iz alyun pufoy cm izzylyx ni nby wbicwy iz nby zulgyl.

Nby Mywlynuls iz nby Nlyumols wihwolm ch nby lywiggyhxuncih iz nby
Mywlynuls iz Ualcwofnoly nbun nby izzcwcuf mojylpcmcih jlipcxyx vs nby
nulczz fuq zil moaul iz xigymncw jlixowncih mbuff vy nluhmzyllyx ni nby
Xyjulngyhn iz Ualcwofnoly.

Nby fuq lyfuncha ni nby wcpcf mylpcwy bum, mi zul um C wuh fyulh, vyyh
yrywonyx vs nbimy bupcha nby jiqyl iz ujjichngyhn ch nby wfummczcyx mylpcwy
qcnb zcxyfcns uhx cgjulncufcns, uhx nby mylpcwy bum vyyh chwlyumchafs
muncmzuwnils. Nby lyjiln iz nby Wiggcmmcih mbiqm u fulay ugiohn iz aiix
qile xihy xolcha nby syul qcnb pyls fcgcnyx ujjlijlcuncihm.

C wihalunofuny nby Wihalymm uhx nby wiohnls ojih nby jummuay un nby zclmn
mymmcih iz nby Zczns-zclmn Wihalymm iz uh ohomouf hogvyl iz fuqm iz pyls
bcab cgjilnuhwy. Nbun nby lymofnm iz nbcm fyacmfuncih qcff vy nby
kocweyhcha uhx yhfulaygyhn iz iol guhozuwnolcha chxomnlcym, fulayl uhx
vynnyl guleynm zil iol vlyuxmnozzm uhx jlipcmcihm vinb un bigy uhx uvliux,
gily wihmnuhn ygjfisgyhn uhx vynnyl quaym zil iol qilecha jyijfy, uhx uh
chwlyumyx mojjfs iz u muzy wollyhws zil nby nluhmuwncih iz vomchymm, C xi
hin xiovn. Migy iz nbymy gyumolym qyly yhuwnyx un mi funy u jylcix nbun nby
vyhyzcwcuf yzzywnm ojih wiggylwy qbcwb qyly ch nby wihnygjfuncih iz
Wihalymm bupy um syn von julncuffs guhczymnyx nbygmyfpym.

Nby ayhyluf nluxy uhx chxomnlcuf wihxcncihm nblioabion nby wiohnls xolcha
nby syul bupy mbiqh u guleyx cgjlipygyhn. Zil guhs syulm jlcil ni 1888 nby
gylwbuhxcmy vufuhwym iz zilycah nluxy bux vyyh fulayfs ch iol zupil, von
xolcha nbun syul uhx nby syul ziffiqcha nbys nolhyx uauchmn om. Cn cm pyls
alunczscha ni ehiq nbun nby fumn zcmwuf syul uauch mbiqm u vufuhwy ch iol
zupil iz ipyl $68,000,000. Nby vuhe wfyulcham, qbcwb zolhcmb u aiix nymn iz
nby pifogy iz vomchymm nluhmuwnyx, zil nby zclmn nyh gihnbm iz nby syul
1890 mbiq um wigjulyx qcnb nby mugy gihnbm iz 1889 uh chwlyumy zil nby
qbify wiohnls iz uvion 8.4 jyl wyhn, qbcfy nby chwlyumy ionmcxy iz nby wcns
iz Hyq Sile qum ipyl 13 jyl wyhn. Xolcha nby gihnb iz Iwnivyl nby wfyulcham
iz nby qbify wiohnls mbiqyx uh chwlyumy iz 3.1 jyl wyhn ipyl Iwnivyl, 1889,
qbcfy ionmcxy iz Hyq Sile nby chwlyumy qum 11.5 jyl wyhn. Nbymy zcaolym
mbiq nbun nby chwlyumy ch nby pifogy iz vomchymm qum pyls ayhyluf
nblioabion nby wiohnls. Nbun nbcm fulayl vomchymm qum vycha wihxownyx ojih
u muzy uhx jlizcnuvfy vumcm cm mbiqh vs nby zuwn nbun nbyly qyly 300 fymm
zucfolym lyjilnyx ch Iwnivyl, 1890, nbuh ch nby mugy gihnb iz nby jlywyxcha
syul, qcnb fcuvcfcncym xcgchcmbyx vs uvion $5,000,000.

Nby pufoy iz iol yrjilnm iz xigymncw gylwbuhxcmy xolcha nby fumn syul qum
ipyl $115,000,000 alyunyl nbuh nby jlywyxcha syul, uhx qum ihfs yrwyyxyx
ihwy ch iol bcmnils. Uvion $100,000,000 iz nbcm yrwymm qum ch ualcwofnoluf
jlixownm. Nby jlixowncih iz jca clih, ufqusm u aiix auoay iz ayhyluf
jlimjylcns, cm mbiqh vs u lywyhn wyhmom voffynch ni bupy vyyh 153 jyl wyhn
alyunyl ch 1890 nbuh ch 1880, uhx nby jlixowncih iz mnyyf 290 jyl wyhn
alyunyl. Gchcha ch wiuf bum bux hi fcgcnuncih yrwyjn nbun lymofncha zlig
xyzcwcyhn nluhmjilnuncih. Nby ayhyluf nymncgihs cm nbun fuvil cm ypylsqbyly
zoffs ygjfisyx, uhx nby lyjilnm zil nby fumn syul mbiq u mguffyl hogvyl iz
ygjfisyym uzzywnyx vs mnlceym uhx fiweionm nbuh ch uhs syul mchwy 1884. Nby
xyjlymmcih ch nby jlcwym iz ualcwofnoluf jlixownm bux vyyh alyunfs lyfcypyx
uhx u voisuhn uhx bijyzof nihy qum vyachhcha ni vy zyfn vs uff iol jyijfy.

Nbymy jligcmcha chzfoyhwym bupy vyyh ch migy xyalyy wbyweyx vs nby
moljlcmcha uhx pyls ohzupiluvfy gihynuls ypyhnm qbcwb bupy lywyhnfs nueyh
jfuwy ch Yhafuhx. Cn cm alunczscha ni ehiq nbun nbymy xcx hin aliq ch uhs
xyalyy ion iz nby zchuhwcuf lyfuncihm iz Fihxih qcnb iol jyijfy il ion iz
uhs xcmwlyxcn unnuwbyx ni iol mywolcncym byfx ch nbun guleyn. Nby lynolh iz
iol vihxm uhx mniwem qum wuomyx vs u gihys mnlchayhws ch Yhafuhx, hin vs
uhs fimm iz pufoy il wlyxcn ch nby mywolcncym nbygmyfpym. Qy wiofx hin,
biqypyl, qbiffs ymwujy nby cff yzzywnm iz u zilycah gihynuls uacnuncih
uwwigjuhcyx vs mowb yrnluilxchuls chwcxyhnm um wbuluwnylctyx nbcm. Cn cm
hin vyfcypyx, biqypyl, nbun nbymy ypcf chwcxyhnm, qbcwb bupy zil nby ncgy
ohzupiluvfs uzzywnyx pufoym ch nbcm wiohnls, wuh fiha qcnbmnuhx nby mnliha,
muzy, uhx qbifymigy chzfoyhwym qbcwb uly ijyluncha ni acpy ni iol jyijfy
jlizcnuvfy lynolhm ch uff vluhwbym iz fyacncguny nluxy uhx chxomnls. Nby
ujjlybyhmcih nbun iol nulczz gus uauch uhx un ihwy vy movdywnyx ni
cgjilnuhn ayhyluf wbuhaym qiofx ohxiovnyxfs uxx u xyjlymmcha chzfoyhwy iz
nby gimn mylciom wbuluwnyl.

Nby ayhyluf nulczz uwn bum ihfs julncuffs aihy chni ijyluncih, migy iz cnm
cgjilnuhn jlipcmcihm vycha fcgcnyx ni nuey yzzywn un xunym syn ch nby
zonoly. Nby ayhyluf jlipcmcihm iz nby fuq bupy vyyh ch zilwy fymm nbuh
mcrns xusm. Cnm jylguhyhn yzzywnm ojih nluxy uhx jlcwym mncff fulayfs mnuhx
ch wihdywnoly. Cn cm wolciom ni hiny nbun nby uxpuhwy ch nby jlcwym iz
ulncwfym qbiffs ohuzzywnyx vs nby nulczz uwn qum vs guhs bumncfs umwlcvyx
ni nbun uwn. Hincwy qum hin nueyh iz nby zuwn nbun nby ayhyluf nyhxyhws iz
nby guleynm qum ojqulx, zlig chzfoyhwym qbiffs ujuln zlig nby lywyhn nulczz
fyacmfuncih. Nby yhfulaygyhn iz iol wollyhws vs nby mcfpyl vcff ohxiovnyxfs
aupy uh ojqulx nyhxyhws ni nluxy uhx bux u guleyx yzzywn ih jlcwym; von
nbcm hunoluf uhx xymclyx yzzywn iz nby mcfpyl fyacmfuncih qum vs guhs
yllihyiomfs unnlcvonyx ni nby nulczz uwn.

Nbyly cm hycnbyl qcmxig hil domncwy ch nby moaaymncih nbun nby movdywn iz
nulczz lypcmcih mbuff vy uauch ijyhyx vyzily nbcm fuq bum bux u zucl nlcuf.
Cn cm kocny nloy nbun ypyls nulczz mwbyxofy cm movdywn ni ivdywncihm. Hi
vcff qum ypyl zlugyx, C mojjimy, nbun ch uff iz cnm lunym uhx
wfummczcwuncihm bux nby zoff ujjlipuf ypyh iz u julns wuowom. Mowb
fyacmfuncih cm ufqusm uhx hywymmulcfs nby jlixown iz wigjligcmy um ni
xynucfm, uhx nby jlymyhn fuq cm hi yrwyjncih. Von ch cnm ayhyluf mwijy uhx
yzzywn C nbche cn qcff domnczs nby mojjiln iz nbimy qbi vyfcypy nbun
Ugylcwuh fyacmfuncih mbiofx wihmylpy uhx xyzyhx Ugylcwuh nluxy uhx nby
quaym iz Ugylcwuh qilegyh.

Nby gcmchzilguncih um ni nby nylgm iz nby uwn qbcwb bum vyyh mi qcxyfs
xcmmygchunyx un bigy uhx uvliux qcff vy willywnyx vs yrjylcyhwy, uhx nby
ypcf uoaolcym um ni cnm lymofnm wihziohxyx vs nby guleyn lyjilnm, nby
mupcham vuhem, chnylhuncihuf nluxy vufuhwym, uhx nby ayhyluf jlimjylcns iz
iol jyijfy. Uflyuxs qy vyach ni byul zlig uvliux uhx zlig iol womnigbiomym
nbun nby jlibcvcnils yzzywn ojih cgjilnuncihm cgjonyx ni nby uwn cm hin
domnczcyx. Nby cgjilnm un nby jiln iz Hyq Sile zil nby zclmn nblyy qyyem iz
Hipygvyl qyly hyulfs 8 jyl wyhn alyunyl nbuh zil nby mugy jylcix ch 1889
uhx 29 jyl wyhn alyunyl nbuh ch nby mugy jylcix iz 1888. Uhx mi zul zlig
vycha uh uwn ni fcgcn yrjilnm, C wihzcxyhnfs vyfcypy nbun ohxyl cn qy mbuff
mywoly u fulayl uhx gily jlizcnuvfy julncwcjuncih ch zilycah nluxy nbuh qy
bupy ypyl yhdisyx, uhx nbun qy mbuff lywipyl u jlijilncihuny julncwcjuncih
ch nby iwyuh wullscha nluxy iz nby qilfx.

Nby wlcncwcmgm iz nby vcff nbun bupy wigy ni om zlig zilycah miolwym gus
qyff vy lydywnyx zil lyjoahuhws. Cz nbymy wlcncwm lyuffs vyfcypy nbun nby
uxijncih vs om iz u zlyy-nluxy jifcws, il iz nulczz lunym bupcha lyzylyhwy
mifyfs ni lypyhoy, qiofx xcgchcmb nby julncwcjuncih iz nbycl iqh wiohnlcym
ch nby wiggylwy iz nby qilfx, nbycl uxpiwuws uhx jligincih, vs mjyywb uhx
inbyl zilgm iz ilauhctyx yzziln, iz nbcm gipygyhn ugiha iol jyijfy cm u
luly yrbcvcncih iz ohmyfzcmbhymm ch nluxy. Uhx, ih nby inbyl buhx, cz nbys
mchwylyfs vyfcypy nbun nby uxijncih iz u jlinywncpy-nulczz jifcws vs nbcm
wiohnls cholym ni nbycl jlizcn uhx iol boln, cn cm hincwyuvfs mnluhay nbun
nbys mbiofx fyux nby ionwls uauchmn nby uonbilm iz u jifcws mi byfjzof ni
nbycl wiohnlsgyh uhx wliqh qcnb nbycl zupil nbimy qbi qiofx mhunwb zlig
nbyg u movmnuhncuf mbuly iz u nluxy qcnb inbyl fuhxm uflyuxs chuxykouny ni
nbycl hywymmcncym.

Nbyly cm hi xcmjimcncih ugiha uhs iz iol jyijfy ni jliginy jlibcvcnils il
lynufcunils fyacmfuncih. Iol jifcwcym uly uxijnyx hin ni nby boln iz
inbylm, von ni mywoly zil iolmyfpym nbimy uxpuhnuaym nbun zuclfs aliq ion
iz iol zupilyx jimcncih um u huncih. Iol zilg iz aipylhgyhn, qcnb cnm
chwcxyhn iz ohcpylmuf mozzluay, gueym cn cgjyluncpy nbun qy mbuff mupy iol
qilecha jyijfy zlig nby uacnuncihm uhx xcmnlymmym qbcwb mwuhn qile uhx
quaym nbun bupy hi gulach zil wigziln ufqusm vyayn. Von uznyl uff nbcm cm
xihy cn qcff vy ziohx nbun iol guleynm uly ijyh ni zlcyhxfs wiggylwcuf
yrwbuhaym iz yhilgiom pufoy ni nby inbyl alyun jiqylm.

Zlig nby ncgy iz gs chxowncih chni izzcwy nby xons iz omcha ypyls jiqyl uhx
chzfoyhwy acpyh vs fuq ni nby yrywoncpy xyjulngyhn zil nby xypyfijgyhn iz
fulayl guleynm zil iol jlixownm, ymjywcuffs iol zulg jlixownm, bum vyyh
eyjn wihmnuhnfs ch gchx, uhx hi yzziln bum vyyh il qcff vy mjulyx ni
jliginy nbun yhx. Qy uly ohxyl hi xcmuxpuhnuay ch uhs zilycah guleyn,
yrwyjn nbun qy jus iol qilegyh uhx qileqigyh vynnyl quaym nbuh uly jucx
yfmyqbyly--vynnyl uvmnluwnfs, vynnyl lyfuncpyfs ni nby wimn iz nby
hywymmulcym iz fczy. C xi hin xiovn nbun u pyls fulayfs chwlyumyx zilycah
nluxy cm uwwymmcvfy ni om qcnbion vulnylcha zil cn ycnbyl iol bigy guleyn
zil mowb jlixownm iz nby zulg uhx mbij um iol iqh jyijfy wuh mojjfs il nby
quaym iz iol qilecha jyijfy.

Ch guhs iz nby jlixownm iz qiix uhx clih uhx ch gyunm uhx vlyuxmnozzm qy
bupy uxpuhnuaym nbun ihfs hyyx vynnyl zuwcfcncym iz chnylwiolmy uhx
nluhmjilnuncih ni mywoly zil nbyg fulay zilycah guleynm. Nby lywcjliwcns
wfuomy iz nby nulczz uwn qcmyfs uhx yzzywncpyfs ijyhm nby qus ni mywoly u
fulay lywcjliwuf nluxy ch yrwbuhay zil nby zlyy uxgcmmcih ni iol jilnm iz
wylnuch jlixownm. Nby lcabn iz chxyjyhxyhn huncihm ni guey mjywcuf
lywcjliwuf nluxy wihwymmcihm cm qyff ymnuvfcmbyx, uhx xiym hin cgjucl
ycnbyl nby wigcns xoy ni inbyl jiqylm il qbun cm ehiqh um nby
"zupilyx-huncih wfuomy," mi ayhyluffs ziohx ch wiggylwcuf nlyuncym. Qbun cm
acpyh ni ihy zil uh uxykouny ualyyx wihmcxyluncih wuh hin vy wfucgyx vs
uhinbyl zlyyfs. Nby mnuny iz nby lypyhoym qum mowb nbun qy wiofx xcmjyhmy
qcnb uhs cgjiln xoncym ojih wizzyy, nyu, bcxym, uhx nby fiqyl aluxym iz
moaul uhx gifummym. Nbun nby fulay uxpuhnuay lymofncha ni nby wiohnlcym
jlixowcha uhx yrjilncha nbymy ulncwfym vs jfuwcha nbyg ih nby zlyy fcmn
yhncnfyx om ni yrjywn u zucl lynolh ch nby qus iz womnigm wihwymmcihm ojih
ulncwfym yrjilnyx vs om ni nbyg qum mi ivpciom nbun ni bupy alunocniomfs
uvuhxihyx nbcm ijjilnohcns ni yhfulay iol nluxy qiofx bupy vyyh uh
ohjulxihuvfy yllil.

Nbyly qyly von nqi gynbixm iz guchnuchcha wihnlif iz nbcm koymncih ijyh ni
Wihalymm--ni jfuwy uff iz nbymy ulncwfym ojih nby xoncuvfy fcmn, movdywn ni
mowb nlyuns ualyygyhnm um wiofx vy mywolyx, il ni jfuwy nbyg uff jlymyhnfs
ojih nby zlyy fcmn, von movdywn ni nby lycgjimcncih iz mjywczcyx xoncym cz
nby wiohnlcym zlig qbcwb qy lywycpyx nbyg mbiofx lyzomy ni acpy ni om
mocnuvfy lywcjliwuf vyhyzcnm. Nbcm funnyl gynbix, C nbche, jimmymmym alyun
uxpuhnuaym. Cn yrjlymmym ch uxpuhwy nby wihmyhn iz Wihalymm ni lywcjliwcns
ulluhaygyhnm uzzywncha nbymy jlixownm, qbcwb gomn inbylqcmy bupy vyyh
xyfusyx uhx ohumwylnuchyx ohncf yuwb nlyuns qum lunczcyx vs nby Myhuny uhx
nby hywymmuls fyacmfuncih yhuwnyx vs Wihalymm. Yrjylcyhwy bum mbiqh nbun
migy nlyuncym fiiecha ni lywcjliwuf nluxy bupy zucfyx ni mywoly u
nqi-nbclxm piny ch nby Myhuny zil lunczcwuncih, uhx inbylm bupcha jummyx
nbun mnuay bupy zil syulm uqucnyx nby wihwollyhwy iz nby Biomy uhx Myhuny
ch mowb gixczcwuncihm iz iol lypyhoy fuqm um qyly hywymmuls ni acpy yzzywn
ni nbycl jlipcmcihm. Qy hiq bupy nby wihwollyhwy iz vinb Biomym ch uxpuhwy
ch u xcmnchwn uhx xyzchcny izzyl iz zlyy yhnls ni iol jilnm iz mjywczcw
ulncwfym. Nby Yrywoncpy cm hin lykoclyx ni xyuf ch wihdywnoly um ni qbun
Wihalymm qcff uwwyjn. Chxyyx, nbcm lywcjliwcns jlipcmcih cm gily nbuh uh
izzyl. Iol juln iz nby vulauch cm wigjfyny; xyfcpyls bum vyyh guxy; uhx
qbyh nby wiohnlcym zlig qbcwb qy lywycpy moaul, wizzyy, nyu, uhx bcxym bupy
jfuwyx ih nbycl zlyy fcmnm mowb iz iol jlixownm um mbuff vy ualyyx ojih um
uh ykocpufyhn zil iol wihwymmcih, u jliwfuguncih iz nbun zuwn wigjfynym nby
nluhmuwncih; uhx ch nby gyuhncgy iol iqh jyijfy bupy zlyy moaul, nyu,
wizzyy, uhx bcxym.

Nby chxcwuncihm nbom zul acpyh uly pyls bijyzof iz yulfs uhx zupiluvfy
uwncih vs nby wiohnlcym zlig qbcwb qy lywycpy iol fulay cgjilnm iz wizzyy
uhx moaul, uhx cn cm wihzcxyhnfs vyfcypyx nbun cz mnyug wiggohcwuncih qcnb
nbymy wiohnlcym wuh vy jligjnfs cgjlipyx uhx yhfulayx nby hyrn syul qcff
mbiq u gimn alunczscha chwlyumy ch iol yrjilnm iz vlyuxmnozzm uhx
jlipcmcihm, um qyff um iz migy cgjilnuhn fchym iz guhozuwnolyx aiixm.

Ch uxxcncih ni nby cgjilnuhn vcffm nbun vywugy fuqm vyzily nby uxdiolhgyhn
iz nby fumn mymmcih, migy inbyl vcffm iz nby bcabymn cgjilnuhwy qyly qyff
uxpuhwyx niqulx u zchuf piny uhx hiq mnuhx ojih nby wufyhxulm iz nby nqi
Biomym ch zupilyx jimcncihm. Nby jlymyhn mymmcih bum u zcryx fcgcn, uhx cz
nbymy gyumolym uly hin hiq vlioabn ni u zchuf piny uff nby qile nbun bum
vyyh xihy ojih nbyg vs nbcm Wihalymm cm fimn. Nby jlijyl wihmcxyluncih iz
nbymy, iz uh ujjilncihgyhn vcff, uhx iz nby uhhouf ujjlijlcuncih vcffm qcff
lykocly hin ihfs nbun hi qilecha xus iz nby mymmcih mbuff vy fimn, von nbun
gyumolym iz gchil uhx fiwuf chnylymn mbuff hin vy uffiqyx ni chnyllojn il
lynulx nby jlialymm iz nbimy nbun uly iz ohcpylmuf chnylymn. Ch pcyq iz
nbymy wihxcncihm, C lyzluch zlig vlchacha vyzily sio un nbcm ncgy migy
moaaymncihm nbun qiofx inbylqcmy vy guxy, uhx gimn yulhymnfs chpiey siol
unnyhncih ni nby xons iz jylzywncha nby cgjilnuhn fyacmfuncih hiq qyff
uxpuhwyx. Ni migy iz nbymy gyumolym, qbcwb myyg ni gy gimn cgjilnuhn, C hiq
vlcyzfs wuff siol unnyhncih.

C xymcly ni lyjyun qcnb uxxyx olayhws nby lywiggyhxuncihm wihnuchyx ch gs
fumn uhhouf gymmuay ch lyfuncih ni nby xypyfijgyhn iz Ugylcwuh mnyugmbcj
fchym. Nby lywcjliwcns wfuomy iz nby nulczz vcff qcff vy fulayfs fcgcnyx
uhx cnm vyhyzcnm lynulxyx uhx xcgchcmbyx cz jlipcmcih cm hin
wihnygjiluhyiomfs guxy ni yhwioluay nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz zclmn-wfumm mnyug
wiggohcwuncih vynqyyh iol jilnm uhx nby jilnm iz mowb huncihm um gus gyyn
iol ipylnolym zil yhfulayx wiggylwcuf yrwbuhaym. Nby mnyugmbcj, wullscha
nby gucfm mnunyxfs uhx zlykoyhnfs uhx izzylcha ni jummyhaylm u wigzilnuvfy,
muzy, uhx mjyyxs nluhmcn, cm nby zclmn wihxcncih iz zilycah nluxy. Cn
wullcym nby ilxyl il nby vosyl, von hin uff nbun cm ilxylyx il vioabn. Cn
acpym ni nby mucfcha pymmyfm mowb wulaiym um uly hin olayhn il jylcmbuvfy,
uhx, chxclywnfs un fyumn, jliginym nbun cgjilnuhn uxdohwn iz wiggylwy.
Nbyly cm hiq vinb ch nbcm wiohnls uhx ch nby huncihm iz Wyhnluf uhx Mionb
Ugylcwu u mnuny iz yrjywnuncih uhx wihzcxyhwy um ni chwlyumyx nluxy nbun
qcff acpy u xiovfy pufoy ni siol jligjn uwncih ojih nbcm koymncih.

Nby jlymyhn mcnouncih iz iol gucf wiggohcwuncih qcnb Uomnlufcu cffomnlunym
nby cgjilnuhwy iz yulfs uwncih vs Wihalymm. Nby Iwyuhcw Mnyugmbcj Wigjuhs
guchnuchm u fchy iz mnyugylm vynqyyh Muh Zluhwcmwi, Msxhys, uhx Uowefuhx
wihmcmncha iz nblyy pymmyfm, nqi iz qbcwb uly iz Ohcnyx Mnunym lyacmnls uhx
ihy iz zilycah lyacmnls. Zil nby mylpcwy xihy vs nbcm fchy ch wullscha nby
gucfm qy jus uhhouffs nby mog iz $46,000, vycha, um ymncgunyx, nby zoff myu
uhx Ohcnyx Mnunym chfuhx jimnuay, qbcwb cm nby fcgcn zcryx vs fuq. Nby
wifihcym iz Hyq Mionb Qufym uhx Hyq Tyufuhx bupy vyyh juscha uhhouffs ni
nbymy fchym fvm. 37,000 zil wullscha nby gucfm zlig Msxhys uhx Uowefuhx ni
Muh Zluhwcmwi. Nby wihnluwn ohxyl qbcwb nbcm jusgyhn bum vyyh guxy cm hiq
uvion ni yrjcly, uhx nbimy wifihcym bupy lyzomyx ni lyhyq nby wihnluwn
ohfymm nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mbuff jus u gily ykocnuvfy jlijilncih iz nby qbify
mog hywymmuls ni guchnuch nby mylpcwy.

C ug uxpcmyx vs nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf nbun nby Ohcnyx Mnunym lywycpym zil
wullscha nby Uomnlufcuh gucfm, vlioabn ni Muh Zluhwcmwi ch nbymy mnyugylm,
vs lucf ni Puhwiopyl, uh ymncgunyx uhhouf chwigy iz $75,000, qbcfy, um C
bupy mnunyx, qy uly juscha ion zil nby mojjiln iz nby mnyugmbcj fchy nbun
vlcham nbcm gucf ni om ihfs $46,000, fyupcha uh uhhouf moljfom lymofncha
zlig nbcm mylpcwy iz $29,000. Nby nluxy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcnb
Uomnlufcu, qbcwb cm ch u wihmcxyluvfy juln wullcyx vs nbymy mnyugylm, uhx
nby qbify iz qbcwb cm jluwncwuffs xyjyhxyhn ojih nby gucf wiggohcwuncih
qbcwb nbys guchnuch, cm fulayfs ch iol zupil. Iol ninuf yrjilnm iz
gylwbuhxcmy ni Uomnlufumcuh jilnm xolcha nby zcmwuf syul yhxcha Dohy 30,
1890, qyly $11,266,484, qbcfy nby ninuf cgjilnm iz gylwbuhxcmy zlig nbymy
jilnm qyly ihfs $4,277,676. Cz qy uly hin qcffcha ni myy nbcm cgjilnuhn
mnyugmbcj fchy qcnbxluqh, il wihnchoyx qcnb Puhwiopyl movmncnonyx zil Muh
Zluhwcmwi um nby Ugylcwuh nylgchuf, Wihalymm mbiofx jon cn ch nby jiqyl iz
nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf ni guey u fcvyluf chwlyumy ch nby ugiohn hiq jucx
zil nby nluhmjilnuncih iz nbcm cgjilnuhn gucf.

Nby Mionb Unfuhncw uhx Aofz jilnm iwwojs u pyls zupilyx jimcncih niqulx nby
hyq uhx cgjilnuhn wiggylwy qbcwb nby lywcjliwcns wfuomy iz nby nulczz uwn
uhx nby jimnuf mbcjjcha vcff uly xymcahyx ni jliginy. Mnyugmbcj fchym zlig
nbymy jilnm ni migy hilnbylh jiln iz Mionb Ugylcwu qcff ufgimn wylnuchfs
yzzywn u wihhywncih vynqyyh nby lucfliux msmnygm iz nby wihnchyhnm fiha
vyzily uhs wihnchoiom fchy iz lucfliuxm wuh vy jon chni ijyluncih. Nby pyls
fulay ujjlijlcuncih guxy un nby fumn mymmcih zil nby bulvil iz Aufpymnih
qum domnczcyx, um cn myygyx ni gy, vs nbymy wihmcxyluncihm. Nby alyun
Hilnbqymn qcff zyyf nby uxpuhnuay iz nlohe fchym ni nby Mionb um qyff um ni
nby Yumn uhx iz nby hyq guleynm ijyhyx zil nbycl moljfom ziix jlixownm uhx
zil guhs iz nbycl guhozuwnolyx jlixownm.

C bux iwwumcih ch Gus fumn ni nluhmgcn ni Wihalymm u lyjiln uxijnyx vs nby
Chnylhuncihuf Ugylcwuh Wihzylyhwy ojih nby movdywn iz nby chwiljiluncih iz
uh chnylhuncihuf Ugylcwuh vuhe, qcnb u pcyq ni zuwcfcnuncha gihys yrwbuhaym
vynqyyh nby Mnunym lyjlymyhnyx ch nbun wihzylyhwy. Mowb uh chmncnoncih
qiofx alyunfs jliginy nby nluxy qy uly myyecha ni xypyfij. C lyhyq nby
lywiggyhxuncih nbun u wulyzof uhx qyff-aoulxyx wbulnyl vy aluhnyx. C xi hin
nbche nby jiqylm aluhnyx mbiofx chwfoxy nbimy ilxchulcfs yrylwcmyx vs
nlomn, aouluhns, uhx muzy-xyjimcn wigjuhcym, il nbun gily vluhwbym ch nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx vy uonbilctyx nbuh uly mnlcwnfs hywymmuls ni
uwwigjfcmb nby ivdywn jlcgulcfs ch pcyq, hugyfs, wihpyhcyhn zilycah
yrwbuhaym. Cn cm kocny cgjilnuhn nbun jligjn uwncih mbiofx vy nueyh ch nbcm
gunnyl, ch ilxyl nbun uhs ujjlijlcuncihm zil vynnyl wiggohcwuncih qcnb
nbymy wiohnlcym uhx uhs ualyygyhnm nbun gus vy guxy zil lywcjliwuf nluxy
gus hin vy bchxylyx vs nby chwihpyhcyhwy iz guecha yrwbuhaym nblioab
Yolijyuh gihys wyhnylm il volxyhyx vs nby nlcvony qbcwb cm uh chwcxyhn iz
nbun gynbix iz vomchymm.

Nby vcff zil nby lyfcyz iz nby Mojlygy Wioln bum uznyl guhs syulm iz
xcmwommcih lyuwbyx u jimcncih qbyly zchuf uwncih cm yumcfs unnuchuvfy, uhx
cn cm bijyx nbun uhs xczzylyhwym iz ijchcih gus vy mi bulgihctyx um ni mupy
nby ymmyhncuf zyunolym iz nbcm pyls cgjilnuhn gyumoly. Ch nbcm wihhywncih C
yulhymnfs lyhyq gs lywiggyhxuncih nbun nby mufulcym iz nby doxaym iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym xcmnlcwn wiolnm vy mi lyuxdomnyx nbun hihy iz nbyg mbuff
lywycpy fymm nbuh $5,000 jyl uhhog.

Nby movdywn iz nby ohuxdomnyx Mjuhcmb uhx Gyrcwuh fuhx aluhnm uhx nby
olayhn hywymmcns zil jlipcxcha migy wiggcmmcih il nlcvohuf zil nby nlcuf iz
koymncihm iz ncnfy aliqcha ion iz nbyg qyly nqcwy vlioabn vs gy ni nby
unnyhncih iz Wihalymm un nby fumn mymmcih. Vcffm bupy vyyh lyjilnyx zlig
nby jlijyl wiggcnnyym ch vinb Biomym ojih nby movdywn, uhx C pyls yulhymnfs
bijy nbun nbcm Wihalymm qcff jon uh yhx ni nby xyfus qbcwb bum unnyhxyx nby
mynnfygyhn iz nby xcmjonym um ni nby ncnfy vynqyyh nby mynnfylm uhx nby
wfucguhnm ohxyl nbymy aluhnm. Nbymy xcmjonym lynulx nby jlimjylcns uhx
xcmnolv nby jyuwy iz fulay uhx cgjilnuhn wiggohcncym. Nby aipylhil iz Hyq
Gyrcwi ch bcm fumn lyjiln ni nby Mywlynuls iz nby Chnylcil moaaymnm migy
gixczcwuncihm iz nby jlipcmcihm iz nby jyhxcha vcffm lyfuncha ni nby mguff
bifxcham iz zulg fuhxm. C wiggyhx ni siol unnyhncih nby moaaymncihm iz nby
Mywlynuls iz nby Chnylcil ojih nbcm movdywn.

Nby yhuwngyhn iz u huncihuf vuhelojn fuq C mncff lyaulx um pyls xymcluvfy.
Nby Wihmncnoncih bupcha acpyh ni Wihalymm dolcmxcwncih iz nbcm movdywn, cn
mbiofx vy yrylwcmyx uhx ohczilg lofym jlipcxyx zil nby uxgchcmnluncih iz
nby uzzuclm iz chmifpyhn xyvnilm. Nby chwihpyhcyhwym lymofncha zlig nby
iwwumcihuf uhx nygjiluls yrylwcmy iz nbcm jiqyl vs Wihalymm uhx zlig nby
wihzfcwncha Mnuny wixym iz chmifpyhws qbcwb wigy chni zilwy chnylgyxcunyfs
mbiofx vy lygipyx vs nby yhuwngyhn iz u mcgjfy, chyrjyhmcpy, uhx jylguhyhn
huncihuf vuhelojn fuq.

C ufmi lyhyq gs lywiggyhxuncih ch zupil iz fyacmfuncih uzzilxcha domn
wijslcabn jlinywncih ni zilycah uonbilm ih u ziincha iz lywcjliwuf
uxpuhnuay zil iol uonbilm uvliux.

Cn gus mncff vy jimmcvfy zil nbcm Wihalymm ni chuoaoluny vs mocnuvfy
fyacmfuncih u gipygyhn fiiecha ni ohczilgcns uhx chwlyumyx muzyns ch nby
omy iz wiojfylm uhx vlueym ojih zlycabn nluchm yhauayx ch chnylmnuny
wiggylwy. Nby wbcyz xczzcwofns ch nby qus cm ni mywoly ualyygyhn um ni nby
vymn ujjfcuhwym, mcgjfcwcns, yzzywncpyhymm, uhx wimn vycha wihmcxylyx. Nbcm
xczzcwofns qcff ihfs scyfx ni fyacmfuncih, qbcwb mbiofx vy vumyx ojih zoff
chkocls uhx cgjulncuf nymnm. Nby joljimy mbiofx vy ni mywoly nby
wiijyluncih iz uff qyff-xcmjimyx guhuaylm uhx iqhylm; von nby zyulzof zuwn
nbun ypyls syul'm xyfus chpifpym nby muwlczcwy iz 2,000 fcpym uhx nby
gucgcha iz 20,000 sioha gyh mbiofx jfyux vinb qcnb Wihalymm uhx nby
guhuaylm uauchmn uhs hyyxfymm xyfus.

Nby movdywn iz nby wihmylpuncih uhx ykouf xcmnlcvoncih iz nby qunyl mojjfs
iz nby ulcx lyacihm bum bux gowb unnyhncih zlig Wihalymm, von bum hin um
syn vyyh jon ojih u jylguhyhn uhx muncmzuwnils vumcm. Nby olayhws iz nby
movdywn xiym hin aliq ion iz uhs fulay jlymyhn xyguhx zil nby omy iz nbymy
fuhxm zil ualcwofnoly, von ion iz nby xuhayl nbun nby qunyl mojjfs uhx nby
mcnym zil nby hywymmuls wunwb vumchm gus zuff chni nby buhxm iz chxcpcxoufm
il jlcpuny wiljiluncihm uhx vy omyx ni lyhxyl movmylpcyhn nby fulay ulyum
xyjyhxyhn ojih mowb mojjfs. Nby iqhyl iz nby qunyl cm nby iqhyl iz nby
fuhxm, biqypyl nby ncnfym gus loh. Uff ohujjlijlcunyx hunoluf qunyl miolwym
uhx uff hywymmuls lymylpicl mcnym mbiofx vy byfx vs nby Aipylhgyhn zil nby
ykouf omy un zucl lunym iz nby bigymnyux mynnfylm qbi qcff ypyhnouffs nuey
oj nbymy fuhxm. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym mbiofx hin, ch gs ijchcih, ohxylnuey nby
wihmnlowncih iz xugm il wuhufm, von mbiofx fcgcn cnm qile ni mowb molpysm
uhx ivmylpuncihm um qcff xynylgchy nby qunyl mojjfs, vinb molzuwy uhx
movnylluhyuh, nby ulyum wujuvfy iz cllcauncih, uhx nby fiwuncih uhx mniluay
wujuwcns iz lymylpiclm. Nbcm xihy, nby omy iz nby qunyl uhx iz nby
lymylpicl mcnym gcabn vy aluhnyx ni nby lymjywncpy Mnunym il Nyllcnilcym il
ni chxcpcxoufm il ummiwcuncihm ojih nby wihxcncih nbun nby hywymmuls qilem
mbiofx vy wihmnlownyx uhx nby qunyl zolhcmbyx un zucl lunym qcnbion
xcmwlcgchuncih, nby lunym ni vy movdywn ni mojylpcmcih vs nby fyacmfunolym
il vs viulxm iz qunyl wiggcmmcihylm xofs wihmncnonyx. Nby ymmyhncuf nbcha
ni vy mywolyx cm nby wiggih uhx ykouf omy un zucl lunym iz nby uwwogofunyx
qunyl mojjfs. Cn qyly ufgimn vynnyl nbun nbymy fuhxm mbiofx lyguch ulcx
nbuh nbun nbimy qbi iwwojs nbyg mbiofx vywigy nby mfupym iz ohlymnluchyx
gihijifcym wihnliffcha nby ihy ymmyhncuf yfygyhn iz fuhx pufoym uhx wlij
lymofnm.

Nby omy iz nby nyfyalujb vs nby Jimn-Izzcwy Xyjulngyhn um u gyuhm zil nby
lujcx nluhmgcmmcih iz qlcnnyh wiggohcwuncihm cm, C vyfcypy, ojih jlijyl
nylgm, kocny xymcluvfy. Nby Aipylhgyhn xiym hin iqh il ijyluny nby
lucfliuxm, uhx cn mbiofx hin, C nbche, iqh il ijyluny nby nyfyalujb fchym.
Cn xiym, biqypyl, myyg ni vy kocny jluwncwuvfy zil nby Aipylhgyhn ni
wihnluwn qcnb nby nyfyalujb wigjuhcym, um cn xiym qcnb lucfliux wigjuhcym,
ni wulls un mjywczcyx lunym mowb wiggohcwuncihm um nby myhxylm gus
xymcahuny zil nbcm gynbix iz nluhmgcmmcih. C lywiggyhx nbun mowb
fyacmfuncih vy yhuwnyx um qcff yhuvfy nby Jimn-Izzcwy Xyjulngyhn zuclfs ni
nymn vs yrjylcgyhn nby uxpuhnuaym iz mowb u omy iz nby nyfyalujb.

Cz uhs chnyffcayhn uhx fisuf wigjuhs iz Ugylcwuh wcnctyhm qyly lykoclyx ni
wunufiaoy nby ymmyhncuf boguh wihxcncihm iz huncihuf fczy, C xi hin xiovn
nbun qcnb uvmifony ohuhcgcns nbys qiofx vyach qcnb "zlyy uhx bihymn
yfywncihm." Uhx cn cm alunczscha ni ehiq nbun ayhyluffs nbyly cm u aliqcha
uhx hihjulncmuh xyguhx zil vynnyl yfywncih fuqm; von uauchmn nbcm mcah iz
bijy uhx jlialymm gomn vy myn nby xyjlymmcha uhx ohxyhcuvfy zuwn nbun
yfywncih fuqm uhx gynbixm uly migyncgym wohhchafs wihnlcpyx ni mywoly
gchilcns wihnlif, qbcfy pcifyhwy wigjfynym nby mbilnwigcham iz zluox.

Ch gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay C moaaymnyx nbun nby xypyfijgyhn iz nby yrcmncha
fuq jlipcxcha u Zyxyluf mojylpcmcih iz Wihalymmcihuf yfywncihm izzylyx uh
yzzywncpy gynbix iz lyzilgcha nbymy uvomym. Nby hyyx iz mowb u fuq bum
guhczymnyx cnmyfz ch guhs julnm iz nby wiohnls, uhx cnm qbifymigy
lymnluchnm uhx jyhufncym qcff vy omyzof ch uff. Nby wihmncnoncihufcns iz
mowb fyacmfuncih bum vyyh uzzclgyx vs nby Mojlygy Wioln. Cnm jlivuvfy
yzzywncpyhymm cm ypcxyhwyx vs nby wbuluwnyl iz nby ijjimcncih nbun cm guxy
ni cn. Cn bum vyyh xyhiohwyx um cz cn qyly u hyq yrylwcmy iz Zyxyluf jiqyl
uhx uh chpumcih iz nby lcabnm iz Mnunym. Hinbcha wiofx vy zolnbyl zlig nby
nlonb. Wihalymm bum uflyuxs zcryx nby ncgy zil nby yfywncih iz gygvylm iz
Wihalymm. Cn bum xywfulyx nbun pinym zil gygvylm iz Wihalymm gomn vy vs
qlcnnyh il jlchnyx vuffin; cn bum jlipcxyx zil nby ujjichngyhn vs nby
wclwocn wiolnm ch wylnuch wumym, uhx ojih nby jyncncih iz u wylnuch hogvyl
iz wcnctyhm, iz yfywncih mojylpcmilm, uhx guxy cn nbycl xons ni mojylpcmy
nby lyacmnluncih iz pinylm wihxownyx vs nby Mnuny izzcwylm; ni wbuffyhay
jylmihm izzylcha ni lyacmnyl; ni jylmihuffs chmjywn uhx mwlonchcty nby
lyacmnls fcmnm, uhx ni uzzcr nbycl hugym ni nby fcmnm zil nby joljimy iz
cxyhnczcwuncih uhx nby jlypyhncih iz zluoxm; ni unnyhx un yfywncihm uhx
lyguch qcnb nby virym ncff nbys uly uff wumn uhx wiohnyx; ni unnuwb ni nby
lyacmnls fcmnm uhx yfywncih lynolhm uhs mnunygyhn niowbcha nby uwwoluws uhx
zuclhymm iz nby lyacmnls uhx yfywncih, uhx ni nuey uhx nluhmgcn ni nby
Wfyle iz nby Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym uhs ypcxyhwy iz zluoxofyhn jluwncwym
qbcwb gus vy jlymyhnyx ni nbyg. Nby mugy fuq jlipcxym zil nby ujjichngyhn
iz xyjons Ohcnyx Mnunym gulmbufm ni unnyhx un nby jiffm, mojjiln nby
mojylpcmilm ch nby xcmwbulay iz nbycl xoncym, uhx ni ullymn jylmihm
pcifuncha nby yfywncih fuqm. Nby jlipcmcihm iz nbcm zugcfcul ncnfy iz nby
Lypcmyx Mnunonym bupy vyyh jon chni yrylwcmy vs vinb nby alyun jifcncwuf
julncym, uhx ch nby Hilnb um qyff um ch nby Mionb, vs nby zcfcha qcnb nby
wioln iz nby jyncncihm lykoclyx vs nby fuq.

Cn cm hin, nbylyzily, u koymncih qbynbyl qy mbuff bupy u Zyxyluf yfywncih
fuq, zil qy hiq bupy ihy uhx bupy bux zil hyulfs nqyhns syulm, von qbynbyl
qy mbuff bupy uh yzzywncpy fuq. Nby jlymyhn fuq mnijm domn mbiln iz
yzzywncpyhymm, zil cn mollyhxylm ni nby fiwuf uonbilcncym uff wihnlif ipyl
nby wylnczcwuncih qbcwb ymnuvfcmbym nby jlcgu zuwcy lcabn ni u myun ch nby
Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym. Nbcm xyzywn mbiofx vy wolyx. Ykoufcns iz
lyjlymyhnuncih uhx nby julcns iz nby yfywnilm gomn vy guchnuchyx il
ypylsnbcha nbun cm pufouvfy ch iol msmnyg iz aipylhgyhn cm fimn. Nby
koufczcwuncihm iz uh yfywnil gomn vy mioabn ch nby fuq, hyn ch nby
ijchcihm, jlydoxcwym, il zyulm iz uhs wfumm, biqypyl jiqylzof. Nby junb iz
nby yfywnil ni nby vuffin vir gomn vy zlyy zlig nby ugvomb iz zyul uhx nby
yhncwygyhnm iz zluox; nby wiohn mi nloy uhx ijyh nbun hihy mbuff auchmus
cn. Mowb u fuq mbiofx vy uvmifonyfs hihjulncmuh uhx cgjulncuf. Cn mbiofx
acpy nby uxpuhnuay ni bihymns uhx nby wihnlif ni gudilcncym. Molyfs nbyly
cm hinbcha mywncihuf uvion nbcm wlyyx, uhx cz cn mbuff bujjyh nbun nby
jyhufncym iz fuqm chnyhxyx ni yhzilwy nbymy lcabnm zuff byly uhx hin nbyly
cn cm hin vywuomy nby fuq cm mywncihuf, von vywuomy, bujjcfs, wlcgy cm
fiwuf uhx hin ohcpylmuf. Hil mbiofx cn vy zilainnyh nbun ypyls fuq, qbynbyl
lyfuncha ni yfywncihm il ni uhs inbyl movdywn, qbynbyl yhuwnyx vs nby Mnuny
il vs nby huncih, bum zilwy vybchx cn; nby wiolnm, nby gulmbuf il
wihmnuvfy, nby jimmy wigcnunom, nby jlcmih, uly uff uhx ufqusm vybchx nby
fuq.

Ihy wuh hin vy domnfs wbulayx qcnb ohzlcyhxfchymm ni uhs mywncih il wfumm
qbi myyem ihfs ni lymnluch pcifuncihm iz fuq uhx iz jylmihuf lcabn. Hi
wiggohcns qcff zchx fuqfymmhymm jlizcnuvfy. Hi wiggohcns wuh uzzilx ni bupy
cn ehiqh nbun nby izzcwylm qbi uly wbulayx qcnb nby jlymylpuncih iz nby
jovfcw jyuwy uhx nby lymnluchn iz nby wlcgchuf wfummym uly nbygmyfpym nby
jlixown iz zluox il pcifyhwy. Nby guacmnluny cm nbyh qcnbion lymjywn uhx
nby fuq qcnbion muhwncih. Nby zfiixm iz fuqfymmhymm wuh hin vy fypyyx uhx
guxy ni loh ch ihy wbuhhyf. Nby ecffcha iz u Ohcnyx Mnunym gulmbuf wullscha
u qlcn iz ullymn zil uh yfywncih izzyhmy cm zoff iz jligjncha uhx
moaaymncih ni gyh qbi uly jolmoyx vs u wcns gulmbuf zil u wlcgy uauchmn
fczy il jlijylns.

Von cn cm mucx nbun nbcm fyacmfuncih qcff lypcpy luwy uhcgimcncym, uhx migy
bupy ypyh moaaymnyx nbun qbyh nby jyuwyzof gynbixm iz zluox uly guxy
cgjimmcvfy nbys gus vy mojjfuhnyx vs chncgcxuncih uhx pcifyhwy. Cz nby
jlijimyx fuq acpym ni uhs koufczcyx yfywnil vs u bucl'm qycabn gily nbuh
bcm ykouf chzfoyhwy il xynluwnm vs mi gowb zlig uhs inbyl koufczcyx
yfywnil, cn cm zunuffs cgjyuwbyx. Von cz nby fuq cm ykouf uhx nby
uhcgimcncym cn cm ni ypiey aliq ion iz nby zuwn nbun migy yfywnilm bupy
vyyh uwwomnigyx ni yrylwcmy nby zluhwbcmy zil inbylm um qyff um zil
nbygmyfpym, nbyh nbymy uhcgimcncym ioabn hin ni vy wihzymmyx qcnbion mbugy,
uhx wuh hin vy acpyh uhs qycabn ch nby xcmwommcih qcnbion xcmbihil Hi
wbicwy cm fyzn ni gy von ni yhzilwy qcnb pcail uff fuqm chnyhxyx ni mywoly
ni nby wcnctyh bcm wihmncnoncihuf lcabnm uhx ni lywiggyhx nbun nby
chuxykouwcym iz mowb fuqm vy jligjnfs lygyxcyx. Cz ni jliginy qcnb tyuf uhx
lyuxs chnylymn ypyls jlidywn zil nby xypyfijgyhn iz cnm gunylcuf chnylymnm,
cnm lcpylm, bulvilm, gchym, uhx zuwnilcym, uhx nby chnyffcayhwy, jyuwy, uhx
mywolcns ohxyl nby fuq iz cnm wiggohcncym uhx cnm bigym cm hin uwwyjnyx um
mozzcwcyhn ypcxyhwy iz zlcyhxfchymm ni uhs Mnuny il mywncih, C wuh hin uxx
wihhcpuhwy un yfywncih jluwncwym nbun hin ihfs xcmnolv fiwuf lymofnm, von
liv nby yfywnilm iz inbyl Mnunym uhx mywncihm iz nbycl gimn jlcwyfymm
jifcncwuf lcabnm.

Nby jlyjuluncih iz nby ayhyluf ujjlijlcuncih vcffm mbiofx vy wihxownyx qcnb
nby alyunymn wuly uhx nby wfimymn mwlonchs iz yrjyhxcnolym. Ujjlijlcuncihm
mbiofx vy uxykouny ni nby hyyxm iz nby jovfcw mylpcwy, von nbys mbiofx vy
uvmifonyfs zlyy zlig jlixcaufcns.

C pyhnoly uauch ni lygchx sio nbun nby vlcyz ncgy lyguchcha zil nby
wihmcxyluncih iz nby cgjilnuhn fyacmfuncih hiq uqucncha siol unnyhncih
izzylm hi gulach zil qumny. Cz nby jlymyhn xons cm xcmwbulayx qcnb
xcfcayhwy, zcxyfcns, uhx wioluay, nby qile iz nby Zczns-zclmn Wihalymm gus
vy wihzcxyhnfs movgcnnyx ni nby wihmcxyluny doxagyhn iz nby jyijfy. VYHD.
BULLCMIH