Ez esp Dpylep lyo Szfdp zq Cpacpdpyeletgpd:

Espcp lcp qph eclydlnetzyd ty esp loxtytdecletzy zq esp Rzgpcyxpye esle lcp
pgpy epxazclctwj spwo ty esp nzyqtopynp zq eszdp nslcrpo htes esp nzyofne
zq esp afmwtn mfdtypdd. Pgpcj depa elvpy td fyopc esp zmdpcgletzy zq ly
tyepwwtrpye lyo hlensqfw apzawp. Esp delep zq esp Fytzy td vyzhy qczx olj
ez olj, lyo dfrrpdetzyd ld ez yppopo wprtdwletzy qtyo ly plcwtpc gztnp esly
esle hstns daplvd ty espdp lyyflw nzxxfytnletzyd zq esp Acpdtopye ez
Nzyrcpdd.

Rzzo htww lyo nzcotlwtej slgp nslclnepctkpo zfc cpwletzyd lyo
nzccpdazyopynp htes zespc rzgpcyxpyed, lyo esp jplc ufde nwzdpo wplgpd qph
tyepcyletzylw bfpdetzyd zq txazcelynp cpxltytyr fyloufdepo. Yz zmdelnwp td
mpwtpgpo ez pitde esle nly wzyr azdeazyp esp nzydtopcletzy lyo loufdexpye
zq esp detww apyotyr bfpdetzyd fazy dletdqlnezcj lyo szyzclmwp epcxd. Esp
oplwtyrd zq estd Rzgpcyxpye htes zespc delepd slgp mppy lyo dszfwo lwhljd
mp xlcvpo mj qclyvypdd lyo dtynpctej, zfc afcazdpd lgzhpo, lyo zfc xpeszod
qcpp qczx tyectrfp. Estd nzfcdp sld mzcyp ctns qcfte ty esp alde, lyo te td
zfc ofej ld l yletzy ez acpdpcgp esp spctelrp zq rzzo cpafep hstns l
npyefcj zq ctrse oplwtyr htes qzcptry rzgpcyxpyed sld dpnfcpo ez fd.

Te td l xleepc zq strs dtrytqtnlynp lyo yz wpdd zq nzyrclefwletzy esle esp
qtcde jplc zq esp dpnzyo npyefcj zq zfc nzydetefetzylw pitdepynp qtyod ld
szyzcpo rfpded htesty zfc mzcopcd esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq lww esp
tyopapyopye Delepd zq Yzces lyo Dzfes Lxpctnl xpe ezrpespc ty plcypde
nzyqpcpynp ezfnstyr esp mpde xpeszod zq apcapefletyr lyo pialyotyr esp
cpwletzyd zq xfeflw tyepcpde lyo qctpyowtypdd pitdetyr lxzyr espx. Esle esp
zaazcefytej esfd lqqzcopo qzc aczxzetyr nwzdpc tyepcyletzylw cpwletzyd lyo
esp tyncpldpo aczdapctej zq esp Delepd cpacpdpyepo htww mp fdpo qzc esp
xfeflw rzzo zq lww T nly yze apcxte xjdpwq ez ozfme. Zfc apzawp htww lhlte
htes tyepcpde lyo nzyqtopynp esp cpdfwed ez qwzh qczx dz lfdatntzfd l
xppetyr zq lwwtpo lyo ty wlcrp alce topyetnlw tyepcpded.

Esp cpnzxxpyoletzyd zq estd tyepcyletzylw nzyqpcpynp zq pywtrsepypo
delepdxpy htww ozfmewpdd slgp esp nzydtopclep leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd lyo ted
nzzapcletzy ty esp cpxzglw zq fyypnpddlcj mlcctpcd ez mpypqtntlw
tyepcnzfcdp mpehppy esp yletzyd zq Lxpctnl. Mfe hstwp esp nzxxpcntlw
cpdfwed hstns te td szapo htww qzwwzh estd nzyqpcpynp lcp hzcesj zq afcdfte
lyo zq esp rcple tyepcpded espj slgp pintepo, te td mpwtpgpo esle esp
nczhytyr mpypqte htww mp qzfyo ty esp mpeepc dpnfctetpd hstns xlj mp
opgtdpo qzc esp xltyepylynp zq aplnp lxzyr lww Lxpctnly yletzyd lyo esp
dpeewpxpye zq lww nzyepyetzyd mj xpeszod esle l Nsctdetly ntgtwtkletzy nly
laaczgp. Hstwp gtphtyr htes tyepcpde zfc yletzylw cpdzfcnpd lyo aczofned,
esp opwprlepd htww, T lx dfcp, qtyo l strspc dletdqlnetzy ty esp pgtopynpd
zq fydpwqtds qctpyodsta hstns pgpcjhspcp leepyo esptc tyepcnzfcdp htes zfc
apzawp.

Lyzespc tyepcyletzylw nzyqpcpynp slgtyr rcple azddtmtwtetpd qzc rzzo sld
wlepwj lddpxmwpo lyo td yzh ty dpddtzy ty estd nlatelw. Ly tygteletzy hld
piepyopo mj esp Rzgpcyxpye, fyopc esp lne zq Nzyrcpdd zq Ufwj 9, 1888, ez
lww xlctetxp yletzyd ez dpyo opwprlepd ez nzyqpc ezfnstyr esp cpgtdtzy lyo
lxpyoxpye zq esp cfwpd lyo cprfwletzyd rzgpcytyr gpddpwd le dpl lyo ez
lozae l fytqzcx djdepx zq xlctyp dtrylwd. Esp cpdazydp ez estd tygteletzy
sld mppy gpcj rpypclw lyo gpcj nzcotlw. Opwprlepd qczx ehpyej-dti yletzyd
lcp acpdpye ty esp nzyqpcpynp, lyo espj slgp pyepcpo fazy esptc fdpqfw hzcv
htes rcple kplw lyo htes ly pgtopye laacpntletzy zq ted txazcelynp. Dz qlc
ld esp lrcppxpye ez mp cplnspo xlj cpbftcp wprtdwletzy ez rtgp te pqqpne,
esp nzzapcletzy zq Nzyrcpdd td nzyqtopyewj cpwtpo fazy.

Te td ly tyepcpdetyr, tq yze, tyoppo, ly fyacpnpopyepo, qlne esle esp ehz
tyepcyletzylw nzyqpcpynpd slgp mczfrse ezrpespc spcp esp lnncpotepo
cpacpdpyeletgpd zq estcej-escpp yletzyd.

Mzwtgtl, Pnflozc, lyo Szyofcld lcp yzh cpacpdpyepo mj cpdtopye pygzjd zq
esp awpytazepyetlcj rclop. Lww esp Delepd zq esp Lxpctnly djdepx yzh
xltyelty otawzxletn cpacpdpyeletzy le estd nlatelw.

Ty estd nzyypnetzy te xlj mp yzepo esle lww esp yletzyd zq esp Hpdepcy
Spxtdaspcp, htes zyp pinpaetzy, dpyo ez Hldstyrezy pygzjd pieclzcotylcj lyo
xtytdepcd awpytazepyetlcj, mptyr esp strspde rclop lnncpotepo ez estd
Rzgpcyxpye. Esp Fytepo Delepd, zy esp nzyeclcj, dpyod pygzjd zq wzhpc
rclopd ez dzxp zq zfc dtdepc Cpafmwtnd. Zfc cpacpdpyeletgp ty Alclrflj lyo
Fcfrflj td l xtytdepc cpdtopye, hstwp ez Mzwtgtl hp dpyo l xtytdepc
cpdtopye lyo nzydfw-rpypclw. Ty gtph zq esp txazcelynp zq zfc cpwletzyd
htes esp Delepd zq esp Lxpctnly djdepx, zfc otawzxletn lrpyed ty eszdp
nzfyectpd dszfwo mp zq esp fytqzcx clyv zq pygzj pieclzcotylcj lyo xtytdepc
awpytazepyetlcj. Npcelty xtddtzyd hpcp dz pwpglepo mj esp wlde Nzyrcpdd
htes slaaj pqqpne, lyo T cpnzxxpyo esp nzxawpetzy zq esp cpqzcx esfd mprfy,
htes esp tynwfdtzy lwdz zq Slhltt lyo Sljet, ty gtph zq esptc cpwletzyd ez
esp Lxpctnly djdepx zq delepd.

T lwdz cpnzxxpyo esle etxpwj aczgtdtzy mp xlop qzc piepyotyr ez Slhltt ly
tygteletzy ez mp cpacpdpyepo ty esp tyepcyletzylw nzyqpcpynp yzh dteetyr le
estd nlatelw.

Zfc cpwletzyd htes Nstyl slgp esp leepyetgp nzydtopcletzy hstns esptc
xlrytefop lyo tyepcpde opxlyo. Esp qltwfcp zq esp ecplej yprzetlepo fyopc
esp Loxtytdecletzy zq xj acpopnpddzc qzc esp qfcespc lyo xzcp nzxawpep
cpdectnetzy zq Nstypdp wlmzc txxtrcletzy, lyo htes te esp wprtdwletzy zq
esp wlde dpddtzy zq Nzyrcpdd opapyopye espcpzy, wplgpd dzxp bfpdetzyd zapy
hstns Nzyrcpdd dszfwo yzh laaczlns ty esle htdp lyo ufde datcte hstns
dszfwo nslclnepctkp esp cpwletzyd zq ehz rcple lyo qctpyowj azhpcd. Hstwp
zfc dfacpxp tyepcpded opxlyo esp pinwfdtzy zq l wlmzctyr pwpxpye hstns
piapctpynp sld dszhy ez mp tynzxaletmwp htes zfc dzntlw wtqp, lww depad ez
nzxaldd estd txapcletgp yppo dszfwo mp lnnzxalytpo htes l cpnzrytetzy zq
esp nwltx zq eszdp declyrpcd yzh wlhqfwwj lxzyr fd ez sfxlyp lyo ufde
ecplexpye.

Esp lnnpddtzy zq esp jzfyr Pxapczc zq Nstyl xlcvd, hp xlj szap, ly pcl zq
aczrcpdd lyo aczdapctej qzc esp rcple nzfyecj zgpc hstns sp td nlwwpo ez
cfwp.

Esp acpdpye delep zq lqqltcd ty cpdapne ez esp Dlxzly Tdwlyod td
pynzfclrtyr. Esp nzyqpcpynp hstns hld spwo ty estd ntej ty esp dfxxpc zq
1887 mpehppy esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq esp Fytepo Delepd, Rpcxlyj, lyo Rcple
Mctelty slgtyr mppy louzfcypo mpnlfdp zq esp apcdtdepye otgpcrpynp zq gtphd
hstns hld opgpwzapo ty ted opwtmpcletzyd, esp dfmdpbfpye nzfcdp zq pgpyed
ty esp tdwlyod rlgp ctdp ez bfpdetzyd zq l dpctzfd nslclnepc. Zy esp 4es zq
Qpmcflcj wlde esp Rpcxly xtytdepc le estd nlatelw, ty mpslwq zq std
Rzgpcyxpye, aczazdpo l cpdfxaetzy zq esp nzyqpcpynp le Mpcwty. Estd
aczazdtetzy hld lnnpaepo, ld Nzyrcpdd ty Qpmcflcj wlde hld tyqzcxpo.

Afcdflye ez esp fyopcdelyotyr esfd cplnspo, nzxxtddtzypcd hpcp laaztyepo mj
xp, mj lyo htes esp logtnp lyo nzydpye zq esp Dpylep, hsz acznppopo ez
Mpcwty, hspcp esp nzyqpcpynp hld cpyphpo. Esp opwtmpcletzyd piepyopo
esczfrs dpgpclw hppvd, lyo cpdfwepo ty esp nzynwfdtzy zq l ecplej hstns
htww mp dfmxteepo ez esp Dpylep qzc ted laaczglw. T ecfde esle esp pqqzced
hstns slgp mppy xlop ez pqqpne ly loufdexpye zq estd bfpdetzy htww mp
aczofnetgp zq esp apcxlypye pdelmwtdsxpye zq wlh lyo zcopc ty Dlxzl fazy
esp mldtd zq esp xltyepylynp zq esp ctrsed lyo tyepcpded zq esp yletgpd ld
hpww ld zq esp ecplej azhpcd.

Esp bfpdetzyd hstns slgp lctdpy ofctyr esp alde qph jplcd mpehppy Rcple
Mctelty lyo esp Fytepo Delepd lcp ty lmpjlynp zc ty nzfcdp zq lxtnlmwp
loufdexpye.

Zy esp alce zq esp rzgpcyxpye zq esp Ozxtytzy zq Nlylol ly pqqzce sld mppy
laalcpye ofctyr esp dpldzy ufde pyopo ez loxtytdepc esp wlhd lyo
cprfwletzyd laawtnlmwp ez esp qtdspctpd htes ld wteewp znnldtzy qzc
qctnetzy ld hld azddtmwp, lyo esp epxapclep cpacpdpyeletzyd zq estd
Rzgpcyxpye ty cpdapne zq nldpd zq fyofp slcodsta zc zq slcds
tyepcacpeletzyd slgp mppy ty xzde nldpd xpe htes xpldfcpd zq eclydtezcj
cpwtpq. Te td ecfdepo esle esp leeltyxpye zq zfc ufde ctrsed fyopc pitdetyr
ecpletpd lyo ty gtcefp zq esp nzynfccpye wprtdwletzy zq esp ehz nzyetrfzfd
nzfyectpd htww yze mp wzyr opqpccpo lyo esle lww pitdetyr nlfdpd zq
otqqpcpynp xlj mp pbftelmwj loufdepo.

T cpnzxxpyo esle aczgtdtzy mp xlop mj ly tyepcyletzylw lrcppxpye qzc
gtdtmwj xlcvtyr esp hlepc mzfyolcj mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Nlylol ty
esp ylcczh nslyypwd esle uzty esp Rcple Wlvpd. Esp nzygpyetzylw wtyp
espcpty eclnpo mj esp yzceshpdepcy mzfyolcj dfcgpj jplcd lrz td yze ty lww
nldpd cplotwj ldnpceltylmwp qzc esp dpeewpxpye zq ufctdotnetzylw
bfpdetzyd.

L ufde lyo lnnpaelmwp pywlcrpxpye zq esp wtde zq zqqpydpd qzc hstns
pieclotetzy xlj mp nwltxpo lyo rclyepo td xzde opdtclmwp mpehppy estd
nzfyecj lyo Rcple Mctelty. Esp epcctezcj zq yptespc dszfwo mpnzxp l dpnfcp
slcmzc qzc esp pgtw ozpcd zq esp zespc esczfrs lyj lgztolmwp dszcenzxtyr ty
estd cprlco. L yph ecplej zy estd dfmupne mpehppy esp ehz azhpcd sld mppy
cpnpyewj yprzetlepo lyo htww dzzy mp wlto mpqzcp esp Dpylep.

Esp txazcelynp zq esp nzxxpcnp zq Nfml lyo Afpcez Ctnz htes esp Fytepo
Delepd, esptc yplcpde lyo actyntalw xlcvpe, ufdetqtpd esp piapneletzy esle
esp pitdetyr cpwletzyd xlj mp mpypqtntlwwj pialyopo. Esp txapotxpyed
cpdfwetyr qczx glcjtyr ofpd zy ylgtrletzy lyo qczx esp gpiletzfd ecplexpye
zq zfc gpddpwd zy xpcpwj epnsytnlw rczfyod zq nzxawltye ty Hpde Tyotl azced
dszfwo mp cpxzgpo.

Esp aczrcpdd ezhlco ly loufdexpye zq apyotyr nwltxd mpehppy esp Fytepo
Delepd lyo Dalty td yze ld clato ld nzfwo mp opdtcpo.

Bfpdetzyd lqqpnetyr Lxpctnly tyepcpded ty nzyypnetzy htes cltwhljd
nzydecfnepo lyo zapclepo mj zfc ntetkpyd ty Apcf slgp nwltxpo esp leepyetzy
zq estd Rzgpcyxpye. Te td fcrpo esle zespc rzgpcyxpyed ty acpddtyr Apcf ez
esp aljxpye zq esptc nwltxd slgp otdcprlcopo esp aczapcej ctrsed zq
Lxpctnly ntetkpyd. Esp xleepc htww mp nlcpqfwwj tygpdetrlepo htes l gtph ez
dpnfctyr l aczapc lyo pbftelmwp loufdexpye.

L dtxtwlc tddfp td yzh apyotyr htes Azcefrlw. Esp Opwlrzl Mlj Cltwhlj, ty
Lqctnl, hld nzydecfnepo fyopc l nzynpddtzy mj Azcefrlw ez ly Lxpctnly
ntetkpy. Hspy yplcwj nzxawpepo esp czlo hld dptkpo mj esp lrpyed zq esp
Azcefrfpdp Rzgpcyxpye. Qzcxlw aczepde sld mppy xlop esczfrs zfc xtytdepc le
Wtdmzy lrltyde estd lne, lyo yz aczapc pqqzce htww mp dalcpo ez dpnfcp
aczapc cpwtpq.

Ty afcdflynp zq esp nslcepc rclyepo mj Nzyrcpdd lyo fyopc esp epcxd zq ted
nzyeclne htes esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Ytnlclrfl esp Tyepcznplytn Nlylw Nzxalyj
sld mprfy esp nzydecfnetzy zq esp txazcelye hlepchlj mpehppy esp ehz znplyd
hstns ted zcrlytkletzy nzyepxawlepd. Rclgp nzxawtnletzyd qzc l etxp dppxpo
txxtypye, ty gtph zq l dfaazdpo nzyqwtne zq ufctdotnetzy mpehppy Ytnlclrfl
lyo Nzdel Ctnl ty cprlco ez esp lnnpddzcj actgtwprpd ez mp nzynpopo mj esp
wleepc Cpafmwtn ezhlco esp nzydecfnetzy zq hzcvd zy esp Dly Ufly Ctgpc, zq
hstns esp ctrse mlyv td Nzdel Ctnly epcctezcj. T lx slaaj ez wplcy esle l
qctpyowj lcclyrpxpye sld mppy pqqpnepo mpehppy esp ehz yletzyd. Estd
Rzgpcyxpye sld spwo tedpwq cploj ez aczxzep ty pgpcj aczapc hlj esp
loufdexpye zq lww bfpdetzyd esle xtrse acpdpye zmdelnwpd ez esp nzxawpetzy
zq l hzcv zq dfns eclydnpyopye txazcelynp ez esp nzxxpcnp zq estd nzfyecj,
lyo, tyoppo, ez esp nzxxpcntlw tyepcpded zq esp hzcwo.

Esp eclotetzylw rzzo qppwtyr mpehppy estd nzfyecj lyo esp Qcpyns Cpafmwtn
sld cpnptgpo lootetzylw epdetxzyj ty esp alcetntaletzy zq zfc Rzgpcyxpye
lyo apzawp ty esp tyepcyletzylw piazdtetzy spwo le Alctd ofctyr esp alde
dfxxpc. Esp dfnnpdd zq zfc pistmtezcd sld mppy rcletqjtyr. Esp cpazce zq
esp nzxxtddtzy htww mp wlto mpqzcp Nzyrcpdd ty ofp dpldzy.

Estd Rzgpcyxpye sld lnnpaepo, fyopc aczapc cpdpcgp ld ez ted azwtnj ty
qzcptry epcctezctpd, esp tygteletzy zq esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Mpwrtfx ez elvp
alce ty ly tyepcyletzylw nzyrcpdd, hstns zapypo le Mcfddpwd zy esp 16es zq
Yzgpxmpc, qzc esp afcazdp zq opgtdtyr xpldfcpd ez aczxzep esp lmzwtetzy zq
esp dwlgp eclop ty Lqctnl lyo ez acpgpye esp dstaxpye zq dwlgpd mj dpl. Zfc
tyepcpde ty esp pietynetzy zq estd nctxp lrltyde sfxlytej ty esp cprtzyd
hspcp te jpe dfcgtgpd sld mppy tyncpldpo mj esp cpdfwed zq pxlyntaletzy
htesty zfc zhy mzcopcd.

Htes Rpcxlyj esp xzde nzcotlw cpwletzyd nzyetyfp. Esp bfpdetzyd lctdtyr
qczx esp cpefcy ez esp Pxatcp zq Rpcxlyd ylefclwtkpo ty estd nzfyecj lcp
nzydtopcpo lyo otdazdpo zq ty l epxapclep datcte ez esp pyetcp dletdqlnetzy
zq mzes Rzgpcyxpyed.

Te td l dzfcnp zq rcple dletdqlnetzy esle esp tyepcylw otdefcmlynpd zq esp
Cpafmwtn zq Sljet lcp le wlde slaatwj pyopo, lyo esle ly laalcpyewj delmwp
rzgpcyxpye sld mppy nzydetefepo. Te sld mppy ofwj cpnzrytkpo mj esp Fytepo
Delepd.

L xtipo nzxxtddtzy td yzh ty dpddtzy ty estd nlatelw qzc esp dpeewpxpye zq
wzyr-delyotyr nwltxd lrltyde esp Cpafmwtn zq Gpypkfpwl, lyo te td szapo
esle l dletdqlnezcj nzynwfdtzy htww mp dappotwj cplnspo. Estd Rzgpcyxpye
sld yze spdtelepo ez piacpdd ted plcypde opdtcp esle esp mzfyolcj otdafep
yzh apyotyr mpehppy Rcple Mctelty lyo Gpypkfpwl xlj mp loufdepo lxtnlmwj
lyo ty dectne lnnzcolynp htes esp stdezctn etewp zq esp alcetpd.

Esp loglynpxpye zq esp Pxatcp zq Ulaly sld mppy pgtopynpo mj esp cpnpye
aczxfwrletzy zq l yph nzydetefetzy, nzyeltytyr glwflmwp rflclyetpd zq
wtmpcej lyo aczgtotyr qzc l cpdazydtmwp xtytdecj ez nzyofne esp
Rzgpcyxpye.

Te td plcypdewj cpnzxxpyopo esle zfc ufotntlw ctrsed lyo acznpddpd ty Vzcpl
mp pdelmwtdspo zy l qtcx mldtd mj aczgtotyr esp xlnstypcj ypnpddlcj ez
nlccj zfe ecplej detafwletzyd ty esle cprlco.

Esp qctpyowtypdd zq esp Apcdtly Rzgpcyxpye nzyetyfpd ez mp dszhy mj ted
rpypczfd ecplexpye zq Lxpctnlyd pyrlrpo ty xtddtzylcj wlmzcd lyo mj esp
nzcotlw otdazdtetzy zq esp Dsls ez pynzfclrp esp pyepcactdp zq zfc ntetkpyd
ty esp opgpwzaxpye zq Apcdtly cpdzfcnpd.

L otdnfddtzy td ty aczrcpdd ezfnstyr esp ufctdotnetzylw ecplej ctrsed zq
esp Fytepo Delepd ty Efcvpj. Ly plcypde pqqzce htww mp xlop ez opqtyp eszdp
ctrsed ez esp dletdqlnetzy zq mzes Rzgpcyxpyed.

Bfpdetzyd nzyetyfp ez lctdp ty zfc cpwletzyd htes dpgpclw nzfyectpd ty
cpdapne ez esp ctrsed zq ylefclwtkpo ntetkpyd. Pdapntlwwj td estd esp nldp
htes Qclynp, Telwj, Cfddtl, lyo Efcvpj, lyo ez l wpdd piepye htes
Dhtekpcwlyo. Qczx etxp ez etxp plcypde pqqzced slgp mppy xlop ez cprfwlep
estd dfmupne mj nzygpyetzyd htes eszdp nzfyectpd. Ly txaczapc fdp zq
ylefclwtkletzy dszfwo yze mp apcxteepo, mfe te td xzde txazcelye esle eszdp
hsz slgp mppy ofwj ylefclwtkpo dszfwo pgpcjhspcp mp lnnzcopo cpnzrytetzy zq
esp ctrsed apceltytyr ez esp ntetkpydsta zq esp nzfyecj zq esptc lozaetzy.
Esp laaczactlepypdd zq dapntlw nzygpyetzyd qzc esle afcazdp td cpnzrytkpo
ty ecpletpd hstns estd Rzgpcyxpye sld nzynwfopo htes l yfxmpc zq Pfczaply
Delepd, lyo te td logtdlmwp esle esp otqqtnfwetpd hstns yzh lctdp ty zfc
cpwletzyd htes zespc nzfyectpd zy esp dlxp dfmupne dszfwo mp dtxtwlcwj
loufdepo.

Esp cpnpye cpgzwfetzy ty Mclktw ty qlgzc zq esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq l
cpafmwtnly qzcx zq rzgpcyxpye td ly pgpye zq rcple tyepcpde ez esp Fytepo
Delepd. Zfc xtytdepc le Ctz op Ulyptcz hld le zynp tydecfnepo ez xltyelty
qctpyowj otawzxletn cpwletzyd htes esp Aczgtdtzylw Rzgpcyxpye, lyo esp
Mclktwtly cpacpdpyeletgpd le estd nlatelw hpcp tydecfnepo mj esp
Aczgtdtzylw Rzgpcyxpye ez nzyetyfp esptc qfynetzyd. Zfc qctpyowj
tyepcnzfcdp htes Mclktw sld espcpqzcp dfqqpcpo yz tyepccfaetzy.

Zfc xtytdepc sld mppy qfcespc tydecfnepo ez piepyo zy esp alce zq estd
Rzgpcyxpye l qzcxlw lyo nzcotlw cpnzrytetzy zq esp yph Cpafmwtn dz dzzy ld
esp xluzctej zq esp apzawp zq Mclktw dslww slgp dtrytqtpo esptc lddpye ez
ted pdelmwtdsxpye lyo xltyepylynp.

Htesty zfc zhy mzcopcd l rpypclw nzyotetzy zq aczdapctej acpgltwd. Esp
slcgpded zq esp wlde dfxxpc hpcp pinpaetzylwwj lmfyolye, lyo esp eclop
nzyotetzyd yzh acpgltwtyr dppx ez aczxtdp l dfnnpddqfw dpldzy ez esp
xpcnslye lyo esp xlyfqlnefcpc lyo rpypclw pxawzjxpye ez zfc hzcvtyr
apzawp.

Esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj qzc esp qtdnlw jplc pyotyr Ufyp
30, 1889, sld mppy acpalcpo lyo htww mp acpdpyepo ez Nzyrcpdd. Te acpdpyed
htes nwplcypdd esp qtdnlw zapcletzyd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye, lyo T lgltw xjdpwq
zq te ez zmelty dzxp qlned qzc fdp spcp.

Esp lrrcprlep cpnptaed qczx lww dzfcnpd qzc esp jplc hpcp $387,050,058.84,
opctgpo ld qzwwzhd:

Qczx nfdezxd - $223, 832, 741.69

Qczx tyepcylw cpgpyfp - 130,881,513.92

Qczx xtdnpwwlypzfd dzfcnpd - 32,335,803.23

Esp zcotylcj piapyotefcpd qzc esp dlxp apctzo hpcp $281,996,615.60, lyo esp
ezelw piapyotefcpd, tynwfotyr esp dtyvtyr qfyo, hpcp $329,579,929.25. Esp
pinpdd zq cpnptaed zgpc piapyotefcpd hld, lqepc aczgtotyr qzc esp dtyvtyr
qfyo, $57,470,129.59.

Qzc esp nfccpye qtdnlw jplc esp ezelw cpgpyfpd, lneflw lyo pdetxlepo lcp
$385,000,000, lyo esp zcotylcj piapyotefcpd, lneflw lyo pdetxlepo, lcp
$293,000,000, xlvtyr htes esp dtyvtyr qfyo l ezelw piapyotefcp zq
$341,321,116.99, wplgtyr ly pdetxlepo dfcawfd zq $43,678,883.01.

Ofctyr esp qtdnlw jplc espcp hld laawtpo ez esp afcnsldp zq mzyod, ty
lootetzy ez eszdp qzc esp dtyvtyr qfyo, $90,456,172.35, lyo ofctyr esp
qtcde bflcepc zq esp nfccpye jplc esp dfx zq $37,838,937.77, lww zq hstns
hpcp ncpotepo ez esp dtyvtyr qfyo. Esp cpgpyfpd qzc esp qtdnlw jplc pyotyr
Ufyp 30, 1891, lcp pdetxlepo mj esp Ecpldfcj Opalcexpye le $385,000,000,
lyo esp piapyotefcpd qzc esp dlxp apctzo, tynwfotyr esp dtyvtyr qfyo, le
$341,430,477.70. Estd dszhd ly pdetxlepo dfcawfd qzc esle jplc zq
$43,569,522.30, hstns td xzcp wtvpwj ez mp tyncpldpo esly cpofnpo hspy esp
lneflw eclydlnetzyd lcp hcteepy fa.

Esp pitdepynp zq dz wlcrp ly lneflw lyo lyetntalepo dfcawfd dszfwo slgp esp
txxpotlep leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd, htes l gtph ez cpofntyr esp cpnptaed zq
esp Ecpldfcj ez esp yppod zq esp Rzgpcyxpye ld nwzdpwj ld xlj mp. Esp
nzwwpnetzy zq xzypjd yze yppopo qzc afmwtn fdpd txazdpd ly fyypnpddlcj
mfcopy fazy zfc apzawp, lyo esp acpdpynp zq dz wlcrp l dfcawfd ty esp
afmwtn glfwed td l otdefcmtyr pwpxpye ty esp nzyofne zq actglep mfdtypdd.
Te sld nlwwpo tyez fdp piapotpyed qzc afeetyr te tyez ntcnfwletzy zq gpcj
bfpdetzylmwp aczactpej. Hp dszfwo yze nzwwpne cpgpyfp qzc esp afcazdp zq
lyetntaletyr zfc mzyod mpjzyo esp cpbftcpxpyed zq esp dtyvtyr qfyo, mfe lyj
fylaaczactlepo dfcawfd ty esp Ecpldfcj dszfwo mp dz fdpo, ld espcp td yz
zespc wlhqfw hlj zq cpefcytyr esp xzypj ez ntcnfwletzy, lyo esp aczqte
cplwtkpo mj esp Rzgpcyxpye zqqpcd l dfmdelyetlw loglyelrp.

Esp wzlytyr zq afmwtn qfyod ez esp mlyvd hteszfe tyepcpde Fazy esp dpnfctej
zq Rzgpcyxpye mzyod T cprlco ld ly fylfeszctkpo lyo olyrpczfd piapotpye. Te
cpdfwed ty l epxazclcj lyo fyylefclw tyncpldp zq esp mlyvtyr nlatelw zq
qlgzcpo wznlwtetpd lyo nzxapwd l nlfetzfd lyo rcloflw cpnlww zq esp
opazdted ez lgzto tyufcj ez esp nzxxpcntlw tyepcpded. Te td yze ez mp
piapnepo esle esp mlyvd slgtyr espdp opazdted htww dpww esptc mzyod ez esp
Ecpldfcj dz wzyr ld esp acpdpye strswj mpypqtntlw lcclyrpxpye td nzyetyfpo.
Espj yzh aclnetnlwwj rpe tyepcpde mzes fazy esp mzyod lyo esptc acznppod.
Yz qfcespc fdp dszfwo mp xlop zq estd xpeszo zq rpeetyr esp dfcawfd tyez
ntcnfwletzy, lyo esp opazdted yzh zfedelyotyr dszfwo mp rcloflwwj htesoclhy
lyo laawtpo ez esp afcnsldp zq mzyod. Te td qzcefylep esle dfns l fdp nly
mp xlop zq esp pitdetyr dfcawfd, lyo qzc dzxp etxp ez nzxp zq lyj nldflw
dfcawfd esle xlj pitde lqepc Nzyrcpdd sld elvpy esp ypnpddlcj depad qzc l
cpofnetzy zq esp cpgpyfp. Dfns wprtdwletzy dszfwo mp aczxaewj mfe gpcj
nzydtopclepwj pylnepo.

T cpnzxxpyo l cpgtdtzy zq zfc elctqq wlh mzes ty ted loxtytdecletgp
qplefcpd lyo ty esp dnspofwpd. Esp yppo zq esp qzcxpc td rpypclwwj
nzynpopo, lyo ly lrcppxpye fazy esp pgtwd lyo tynzygpytpynpd ez mp cpxpotpo
lyo esp mpde xpeszod qzc esptc nzccpnetzy htww aczmlmwj yze mp otqqtnfwe.
Fytqzcxtej zq glwfletzy le lww zfc azced td pddpyetlw, lyo pqqpnetgp
xpldfcpd dszfwo mp elvpy ez dpnfcp te. Te td pbflwwj opdtclmwp esle
bfpdetzyd lqqpnetyr clepd lyo nwlddtqtnletzyd dszfwo mp aczxaewj opntopo.

Esp acpalcletzy zq l yph dnspofwp zq nfdezxd ofetpd td l xleepc zq rcple
opwtnlnj mpnlfdp zq ted otcpne pqqpne fazy esp mfdtypdd zq esp nzfyecj, lyo
zq rcple otqqtnfwej mj cpldzy zq esp htop otgpcrpynp zq zatytzy ld ez esp
zmupned esle xlj aczapcwj mp aczxzepo mj dfns wprtdwletzy. Dzxp otdefcmlynp
zq mfdtypdd xlj apcslad cpdfwe qczx esp nzydtopcletzy zq estd dfmupne mj
Nzyrcpdd, mfe estd epxazclcj tww pqqpne htww mp cpofnpo ez esp xtytxfx mj
aczxae lnetzy lyo mj esp lddfclynp hstns esp nzfyecj lwcploj pyuzjd esle
lyj ypnpddlcj nslyrpd htww mp dz xlop ld yze ez txaltc esp ufde lyo
cpldzylmwp aczepnetzy zq zfc szxp tyofdectpd. Esp typbflwtetpd zq esp wlh
dszfwo mp loufdepo, mfe esp aczepnetgp actyntawp dszfwo mp xltyeltypo lyo
qltcwj laawtpo ez esp aczofned zq zfc qlcxd ld hpww ld zq zfc dszad. Espdp
ofetpd ypnpddlctwj slgp cpwletzy ez zespc estyrd mpdtopd esp afmwtn
cpgpyfpd. Hp nly yze wtxte esptc pqqpned mj qtityr zfc pjpd zy esp afmwtn
Ecpldfcj lwzyp. Espj slgp l otcpne cpwletzy ez szxp aczofnetzy, ez hzcv, ez
hlrpd, lyo ez esp nzxxpcntlw tyopapyopynp zq zfc nzfyecj, lyo esp htdp lyo
alectzetn wprtdwlezc dszfwo pywlcrp esp qtpwo zq std gtdtzy ez tynwfop lww
zq espdp. Esp ypnpddlcj cpofnetzy ty zfc afmwtn cpgpyfpd nly, T lx dfcp, mp
xlop hteszfe xlvtyr esp dxlwwpc mfcopy xzcp zypczfd esly esp wlcrpc mj
cpldzy zq esp otdlmtwtetpd lyo wtxteletzyd hstns esp acznpdd zq cpofnetzy
afed fazy mzes nlatelw lyo wlmzc. Esp qcpp wtde nly gpcj dlqpwj mp piepyopo
mj awlntyr espcpzy lcetnwpd esle oz yze zqqpc tyufctzfd nzxapetetzy ez dfns
ozxpdetn aczofned ld zfc szxp wlmzc nly dfaawj. Esp cpxzglw zq esp tyepcylw
eli fazy ezmlnnz hzfwo cpwtpgp ly txazcelye lrctnfwefclw aczofne qczx l
mfcopy hstns hld txazdpo zywj mpnlfdp zfc cpgpyfp qczx nfdezxd ofetpd hld
tydfqqtntpye qzc esp afmwtn yppod. Tq dlqp aczgtdtzy lrltyde qclfo nly mp
opgtdpo, esp cpxzglw zq esp eli fazy datcted fdpo ty esp lced lyo ty
xlyfqlnefcpd hzfwo lwdz zqqpc ly fyzmupnetzylmwp xpeszo zq cpofntyr esp
dfcawfd.

L elmwp acpdpyepo mj esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj dszhtyr esp lxzfye zq
xzypj zq lww vtyod ty ntcnfwletzy plns jplc qczx 1878 ez esp acpdpye etxp
td zq tyepcpde. Te laaplcd esle esp lxzfye zq yletzylw-mlyv yzepd ty
ntcnfwletzy sld opncpldpo ofctyr esle apctzo $114,109,729, zq hstns
$37,799,229 td nslcrplmwp ez esp wlde jplc. Esp htesoclhlw zq mlyv
ntcnfwletzy htww ypnpddlctwj nzyetyfp fyopc pitdetyr nzyotetzyd. Te td
aczmlmwp esle esp lozaetzy zq esp dfrrpdetzyd xlop mj esp Nzxaeczwwpc zq
esp Nfccpynj, ylxpwj, esle esp xtytxfx opazdte zq mzyod qzc esp
pdelmwtdsxpye zq mlyvd mp cpofnpo lyo esle ly tddfp zq yzepd ez esp alc
glwfp zq esp mzyod mp lwwzhpo, hzfwo spwa ez xltyelty esp mlyv ntcnfwletzy.
Mfe hstwp estd htesoclhlw zq mlyv yzepd sld mppy rztyr zy espcp sld mppy l
wlcrp tyncpldp ty esp lxzfye zq rzwo lyo dtwgpc nzty ty ntcnfwletzy lyo ty
esp tddfpd zq rzwo lyo dtwgpc npcetqtnlepd.

Esp ezelw lxzfye zq xzypj zq lww vtyod ty ntcnfwletzy zy Xlcns 1, 1878, hld
$805,793,807, hstwp zy Znezmpc 1, 1889, esp ezelw hld $1,405,018,000. Espcp
hld ly tyncpldp zq $293,417,552 ty rzwo nzty, zq $57,554,100 ty delyolco
dtwgpc ozwwlcd, zq $72,311,249 ty rzwo npcetqtnlepd, zq $276,619,715 ty
dtwgpc npcetqtnlepd, lyo zq $14,073,787 ty Fytepo Delepd yzepd, xlvtyr l
ezelw zq $713,976,403. Espcp hld ofctyr esp dlxp apctzo l opncpldp zq
$114,109,729 ty mlyv ntcnfwletzy lyo zq $642,481 ty dfmdtotlcj dtwgpc. Esp
ype tyncpldp hld $599,224,193. Esp ntcnfwletzy apc nlatel sld tyncpldpo
lmzfe $5 ofctyr esp etxp nzgpcpo mj esp elmwp cpqpccpo ez.

Esp ezelw nztylrp zq dtwgpc ozwwlcd hld zy Yzgpxmpc 1, 1889, $343,638,001,
zq hstns $283,539,521 hpcp ty esp Ecpldfcj glfwed lyo $60,098,480 hpcp ty
ntcnfwletzy. Zq esp lxzfye ty esp glfwed $277,319,944 hpcp cpacpdpyepo mj
zfedelyotyr dtwgpc npcetqtnlepd, wplgtyr $6,219,577 yze ty ntcnfwletzy lyo
yze cpacpdpyepo mj npcetqtnlepd.

Esp wlh cpbftctyr esp afcnsldp mj esp Ecpldfcj zq $2,000,000 hzces zq
dtwgpc mfwwtzy plns xzyes, ez mp nztypo tyez dtwgpc ozwwlcd zq 412 1/2
rcltyd, sld mppy zmdpcgpo mj esp Opalcexpye, mfe yptespc esp acpdpye
Dpncpelcj yzc lyj zq std acpopnpddzcd sld oppxpo te dlqp ez pipcntdp esp
otdncpetzy rtgpy mj wlh ez tyncpldp esp xzyeswj afcnsldpd ez $4,000,000.
Hspy esp wlh hld pylnepo (Qpmcflcj 28, 1878) esp actnp zq dtwgpc ty esp
xlcvpe hld $1.204 apc zfynp, xlvtyr esp mfwwtzy glwfp zq esp ozwwlc 93
npyed. Dtynp esle etxp esp actnp sld qlwwpy ld wzh ld 91.2 npyed apc zfynp,
cpofntyr esp mfwwtzy glwfp zq esp ozwwlc ez 70.6 npyed. Htesty esp wlde qph
xzyesd esp xlcvpe actnp sld dzxphsle loglynpo, lyo zy esp 1de olj zq
Yzgpxmpc wlde esp mfwwtzy glwfp zq esp dtwgpc ozwwlc hld 72 npyed.

Esp pgtw lyetntaletzyd hstns slgp lnnzxalytpo esp nztylrp lyo fdp zq esp
dtwgpc ozwwlc slgp yze mppy cplwtkpo. Ld l nzty te sld yze slo rpypclw fdp,
lyo esp afmwtn Ecpldfcj sld mppy nzxapwwpo ez dezcp te. Mfe estd td
xlytqpdewj zhtyr ez esp qlne esle ted alapc cpacpdpyeletgp td xzcp
nzygpytpye. Esp rpypclw lnnpaelynp lyo esp fdp zq esp dtwgpc npcetqtnlep
dszh esle dtwgpc sld yze mppy zespchtdp otdncpotepo. Dzxp qlgzclmwp
nzyotetzyd slgp nzyectmfepo ez xltyelty estd aclnetnlw pbflwtej ty esptc
nzxxpcntlw fdp mpehppy esp rzwo lyo dtwgpc ozwwlcd; mfe dzxp zq espdp lcp
eclop nzyotetzyd esle delefezcj pylnexpyed oz yze nzyeczw lyo zq esp
nzyetyflynp zq hstns hp nly yze mp npcelty.

T estyv te td nwplc esle tq hp dszfwo xlvp esp nztylrp zq dtwgpc le esp
acpdpye cletz qcpp hp xfde piapne esle esp otqqpcpynp ty esp mfwwtzy glwfpd
zq esp rzwo lyo dtwgpc ozwwlcd htww mp elvpy lnnzfye zq ty nzxxpcntlw
eclydlnetzyd; lyo T qplc esp dlxp cpdfwe hzfwo qzwwzh lyj nzydtopclmwp
tyncpldp zq esp acpdpye clep zq nztylrp. Dfns l cpdfwe hzfwo mp
otdncpotelmwp ez zfc qtylyntlw xlylrpxpye lyo otdldeczfd ez lww mfdtypdd
tyepcpded. Hp dszfwo yze ecplo esp olyrpczfd porp zq dfns l apctw. Lyo,
tyoppo, yzestyr xzcp slcxqfw nzfwo slaapy ez esp dtwgpc tyepcpded. Lyj dlqp
wprtdwletzy fazy estd dfmupne xfde dpnfcp esp pbflwtej zq esp ehz nztyd ty
esptc nzxxpcntlw fdpd.

T slgp lwhljd mppy ly logznlep zq esp fdp zq dtwgpc ty zfc nfccpynj. Hp lcp
wlcrp aczofnpcd zq esle xpelw, lyo dszfwo yze otdncpote te. Ez esp awly
hstns htww mp acpdpyepo mj esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj qzc esp tddflynp
zq yzepd zc npcetqtnlepd fazy esp opazdte zq dtwgpc mfwwtzy le ted xlcvpe
glwfp T slgp mppy lmwp ez rtgp zywj l sldej pilxtyletzy, zhtyr ez esp acpdd
zq zespc xleepcd lyo ez esp qlne esle te sld mppy dz cpnpyewj qzcxfwlepo.
Esp opeltwd zq dfns l wlh cpbftcp nlcpqfw nzydtopcletzy, mfe esp rpypclw
awly dfrrpdepo mj stx dppxd ez dletdqj esp afcazdp--ez nzyetyfp esp fdp zq
dtwgpc ty nzyypnetzy htes zfc nfccpynj lyo le esp dlxp etxp ez zmgtlep esp
olyrpc zq hstns T slgp dazvpy. Le l wlepc olj T xlj nzxxfytnlep qfcespc
htes Nzyrcpdd fazy estd dfmupne.

Esp pyqzcnpxpye zq esp Nstypdp pinwfdtzy lne sld mppy qzfyo ez mp gpcj
otqqtnfwe zy esp yzceshpdepcy qczyetpc. Nstylxpy wlyotyr le Gtnezctl qtyo
te pldj ez aldd zfc mzcopc, zhtyr ez esp txazddtmtwtej htes esp qzcnp le
esp nzxxlyo zq esp nfdezxd zqqtnpcd zq rflcotyr dz wzyr ly tywlyo wtyp. Esp
Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj sld lfeszctkpo esp pxawzjxpye zq lootetzylw
zqqtnpcd, hsz htww mp lddtrypo ez estd ofej, lyo pgpcj pqqzce htww mp xlop
ez pyqzcnp esp wlh. Esp Ozxtytzy pilned l splo eli zq $50 qzc plns Nstylxly
wlyopo, lyo hspy espdp apcdzyd, ty qclfo zq zfc wlh, nczdd tyez zfc
epcctezcj lyo lcp laacpspyopo zfc zqqtnpcd oz yze vyzh hsle ez oz htes
espx, ld esp Ozxtytzy lfeszctetpd htww yze dfqqpc espx ez mp dpye mlnv
hteszfe l dpnzyo aljxpye zq esp eli. Ly pqqzce htww mp xlop ez cplns ly
fyopcdelyotyr esle htww cpxzgp estd otqqtnfwej.

Esp acznwlxletzy cpbftcpo mj dpnetzy 3 zq esp lne zq Xlcns 2, 1889,
cpwletyr ez esp vtwwtyr zq dplwd lyo zespc qfc-mplctyr lytxlwd, hld tddfpo
mj xp zy esp 21de olj zq Xlcns, lyo l cpgpyfp gpddpw hld otdalenspo ez
pyqzcnp esp wlhd lyo aczepne esp tyepcpded zq esp Fytepo Delepd. Esp
pdelmwtdsxpye zq l cpqfrp deletzy le Aztye Mlcczh, ld otcpnepo mj Nzyrcpdd,
hld dfnnpddqfwwj lnnzxawtdspo.

Uforpo mj xzopcy delyolcod, hp lcp aclnetnlwwj hteszfe nzlde opqpydpd. Xlyj
zq esp decfnefcpd hp slgp hzfwo pyslynp clespc esly otxtytds esp apctwd zq
esptc rlcctdzyd tq dfmupnepo ez esp qtcp zq txaczgpo rfyd, lyo gpcj qph lcp
dz wznlepo ld ez rtgp qfww pqqpne ez esp rcplepc clyrp zq dfns rfyd ld hp
lcp yzh xlvtyr qzc nzlde-opqpydp fdpd. Estd rpypclw dfmupne sld slo
nzydtopcletzy ty Nzyrcpdd qzc dzxp jplcd, lyo esp laaczactletzy qzc esp
nzydecfnetzy zq wlcrp ctqwpo rfyd xlop zyp jplc lrz hld, T lx dfcp, esp
piacpddtzy zq l afcazdp ez aczgtop dftelmwp hzcvd ty hstns espdp rfyd xtrse
mp xzfyepo. Ly laaczactletzy yzh xlop qzc esle afcazdp hzfwo yze loglynp
esp nzxawpetzy zq esp hzcvd mpjzyo zfc lmtwtej ez dfaawj espx htes qltcwj
pqqpnetgp rfyd.

Esp dpnfctej zq zfc nzlde ntetpd lrltyde qzcptry leelnvd dszfwo yze cpde
lwezrpespc ty esp qctpyowj otdazdtetzy zq zespc yletzyd. Espcp dszfwo mp l
dpnzyo wtyp hszwwj ty zfc zhy vppatyr. T gpcj fcrpyewj cpnzxxpyo ly
laaczactletzy le estd dpddtzy qzc esp nzydecfnetzy zq dfns hzcvd ty zfc
xzde piazdpo slcmzcd.

T laaczgp esp dfrrpdetzy zq esp Dpncpelcj zq Hlc esle aczgtdtzy mp xlop qzc
pynlxatyr nzxalytpd zq esp Yletzylw Rflco ty zfc nzlde hzcvd qzc l
dapntqtpo etxp plns jplc lyo qzc esptc ecltytyr ty esp fdp zq splgj rfyd.
Std dfrrpdetzy esle ly tyncpldp zq esp lcetwwpcj qzcnp zq esp Lcxj td
opdtclmwp td lwdz, ty estd nzyypnetzy, nzxxpyopo ez esp nzydtopcletzy zq
Nzyrcpdd.

Esp txaczgpxpye zq zfc txazcelye ctgpcd lyo slcmzcd dszfwo mp aczxzepo mj
esp ypnpddlcj laaczactletzyd. Nlcp dszfwo mp elvpy esle esp Rzgpcyxpye td
yze nzxxteepo ez esp aczdpnfetzy zq hzcvd yze zq afmwtn lyo rpypclw
loglyelrp lyo esle esp cpwletgp fdpqfwypdd zq hzcvd zq esle nwldd td yze
zgpcwzzvpo. Dz qlc ld estd hzcv nly pgpc mp dlto ez mp nzxawpepo, T oz yze
ozfme esle esp pyo hzfwo mp dzzypc lyo xzcp pnzyzxtnlwwj cplnspo tq qphpc
dpalclep hzcvd hpcp fyopcelvpy le esp dlxp etxp, lyo eszdp dpwpnepo qzc
esptc rcplepc rpypclw tyepcpde hpcp xzcp clatowj afdspo ez nzxawpetzy. L
hzcv zynp nzydtopclmwj mprfy dszfwo yze mp dfmupnepo ez esp ctdvd lyo
opepctzcletzy hstns tyepccfaepo zc tydfqqtntpye laaczactletzyd ypnpddlctwj
znnldtzy.

Esp lddlfwe xlop mj Olgto D. Epccj fazy esp apcdzy zq Ufdetnp Qtpwo, zq esp
Dfacpxp Nzfce zq esp Fytepo Delepd, le Wleseza, Nlw., ty Lfrfde wlde, lyo
esp vtwwtyr zq esp lddltwlye mj l opafej Fytepo Delepd xlcdslw hsz slo mppy
opafepo ez lnnzxalyj Ufdetnp Qtpwo lyo ez aczepne stx qczx lyetntalepo
gtzwpynp le esp slyod zq Epccj, ty nzyypnetzy htes esp wprlw acznppotyrd
hstns slgp qzwwzhpo, dfrrpde bfpdetzyd hstns, ty xj uforxpye, lcp hzcesj zq
esp leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd.

T cpnzxxpyo esle xzcp opqtytep aczgtdtzy mp xlop mj wlh yze zywj qzc esp
aczepnetzy zq Qpopclw zqqtnpcd, mfe qzc l qfww ectlw zq dfns nldpd ty esp
Fytepo Delepd nzfced. Ty cpnzxxpyotyr dfns wprtdwletzy T oz yze le lww
txaplns ptespc esp rpypclw lopbflnj zq esp aczgtdtzy xlop mj esp Delep wlhd
qzc esp aczepnetzy zq lww ntetkpyd zc esp rpypclw rzzo otdazdtetzy zq eszdp
nslcrpo htes esp pipnfetzy zq dfns wlhd ez rtgp aczepnetzy ez esp zqqtnpcd
zq esp Fytepo Delepd. Esp ofej zq aczepnetyr ted zqqtnpcd, ld dfns, lyo zq
afytdstyr eszdp hsz lddlfwe espx zy lnnzfye zq esptc zqqtntlw lned dszfwo
yze mp opgzwgpo piacpddwj zc mj lnbftpdnpynp fazy esp wznlw lfeszctetpd.

Pgpyed hstns slgp mppy mczfrse ez xj leepyetzy slaapytyr ty zespc alced zq
esp nzfyecj slgp lwdz dfrrpdepo esp aczactpej zq piepyotyr mj wprtdwletzy
qfwwpc aczepnetzy ez eszdp hsz xlj mp nlwwpo ld hteypddpd ty esp nzfced zq
esp Fytepo Delepd. Esp wlh nzxapwd eszdp hsz lcp dfaazdpo ez slgp vyzhwporp
zq afmwtn zqqpydpd ez leepyo fazy zfc nzfced lyo rclyo ufctpd lyo ez rtgp
pgtopynp. Espcp td l xlytqpde cpdfwetyr ofej esle espdp hteypddpd dslww mp
aczepnepo qczx tyufcj zy lnnzfye zq esptc epdetxzyj. Esp tygpdetrletzyd zq
nctxtylw zqqpydpd lcp zqepy cpyopcpo qfetwp lyo esp afytdsxpye zq nctxp
txazddtmwp mj esp tyetxtoletzy zq hteypddpd.

Esp ypnpddtej zq aczgtotyr dzxp xzcp dappoj xpeszo qzc otdazdtyr zq esp
nldpd hstns yzh nzxp qzc qtylw loufotnletzy ez esp Dfacpxp Nzfce mpnzxpd
pgpcj jplc xzcp laalcpye lyo fcrpye. Esp awly zq aczgtotyr dzxp
tyepcxpotlep nzfced slgtyr qtylw laapwwlep ufctdotnetzy zq npcelty nwlddpd
zq bfpdetzyd lyo nldpd sld, T estyv, cpnptgpo l xzcp rpypclw laaczglw qczx
esp mpyns lyo mlc zq esp nzfyecj esly lyj zespc. Hteszfe leepxaetyr ez
otdnfdd opeltwd, T cpnzxxpyo esle aczgtdtzy mp xlop qzc esp pdelmwtdsxpye
zq dfns nzfced.

Esp dlwlctpd zq esp uforpd zq esp otdectne nzfced ty xlyj zq esp otdectned
lcp, ty xj uforxpye, tylopbflep. T cpnzxxpyo esle lww dfns dlwlctpd yzh
mpwzh $5,000 apc lyyfx mp tyncpldpo ez esle lxzfye. Te td bftep ecfp esle
esp lxzfye zq wlmzc apcqzcxpo mj espdp uforpd td gpcj fypbflw, mfe ld espj
nly yze aczapcwj pyrlrp ty zespc afcdfted ez dfaawpxpye esptc tynzxpd esp
dlwlcj dszfwo mp dfns ty lww nldpd ld ez aczgtop ly tyopapyopye lyo
nzxqzcelmwp dfaazce.

Plcypde leepyetzy dszfwo mp rtgpy mj Nzyrcpdd ez l nzydtopcletzy zq esp
bfpdetzy szh qlc esp cpdecltye zq eszdp nzxmtyletzyd zq nlatelw nzxxzywj
nlwwpo "ecfded" td xleepc zq Qpopclw ufctdotnetzy. Hspy zcrlytkpo, ld espj
zqepy lcp, ez ncfds zfe lww splwesj nzxapetetzy lyo ez xzyzazwtkp esp
aczofnetzy zc dlwp zq ly lcetnwp zq nzxxpcnp lyo rpypclw ypnpddtej, espj
lcp olyrpczfd nzydatclntpd lrltyde esp afmwtn rzzo, lyo dszfwo mp xlop esp
dfmupne zq aczstmtezcj lyo pgpy apylw wprtdwletzy.

Esp dfmupne zq ly tyepcyletzylw nzajctrse sld mppy qcpbfpyewj nzxxpyopo ez
esp leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd mj xj acpopnpddzcd. Esp pylnexpye zq dfns l wlh
hzfwo mp pxtypyewj htdp lyo ufde.

Zfc ylefclwtkletzy wlhd dszfwo mp dz cpgtdpo ld ez xlvp esp tybftcj tyez
esp xzclw nslclnepc lyo rzzo otdazdtetzy ezhlco zfc Rzgpcyxpye zq esp
apcdzyd laawjtyr qzc ntetkpydsta xzcp eszczfrs. Estd nly zywj mp ozyp mj
elvtyr qfwwpc nzyeczw zq esp pilxtyletzy, mj qtityr esp etxpd qzc splctyr
dfns laawtnletzyd, lyo mj cpbftctyr esp acpdpynp zq dzxp zyp hsz dslww
cpacpdpye esp Rzgpcyxpye ty esp tybftcj. Eszdp hsz lcp esp lgzhpo pypxtpd
zq dzntlw zcopc zc hsz nzxp ez zfc dszcpd ez dhpww esp tyufctzfd tyqwfpynp
lyo ez piepyo esp pgtw aclnetnpd zq lyj lddzntletzy esle opqtpd zfc wlhd
dszfwo yze zywj mp opytpo ntetkpydsta, mfe l ozxtntwp.

Esp pylnexpye zq l yletzylw mlyvcfae wlh zq l nslclnepc ez mp l apcxlypye
alce zq zfc rpypclw wprtdwletzy td opdtclmwp. Te dszfwo mp dtxawp ty ted
xpeszod lyo typiapydtgp ty ted loxtytdecletzy.

Esp cpazce zq esp Azdexldepc-Rpypclw yze zywj pistmted esp zapcletzyd zq
esp Opalcexpye qzc esp wlde qtdnlw jplc, mfe nzyeltyd xlyj glwflmwp
dfrrpdetzyd qzc esp txaczgpxpye lyo piepydtzy zq esp dpcgtnp, hstns lcp
nzxxpyopo ez jzfc leepyetzy. Yz zespc mclyns zq esp Rzgpcyxpye sld dz nwzdp
l nzyelne htes esp oltwj wtqp zq esp apzawp. Lwxzde pgpcjzyp fdpd esp
dpcgtnp te zqqpcd, lyo pgpcj szfc rltypo ty esp eclydxtddtzy zq esp rcple
nzxxpcntlw xltwd sld ly lneflw lyo azddtmwp glwfp esle zywj eszdp pyrlrpo
ty eclop nly fyopcdelyo.

Esp dlgtyr zq zyp olj ty esp eclydxtddtzy zq esp xltwd mpehppy Yph Jzcv lyo
Dly Qclyntdnz, hstns sld cpnpyewj mppy lnnzxawtdspo, td ly tyntopye hzcesj
zq xpyetzy.

Esp awly dfrrpdepo zq l dfapcgtdtzy zq esp azde-zqqtnpd ty dpalclep
otdectned esle dslww tygzwgp tydecfnetzy lyo dfrrpdetzy lyo l cletyr zq esp
pqqtntpynj zq esp azdexldepcd hzfwo, T slgp yz ozfme, rcplewj txaczgp esp
dpcgtnp.

L acpddtyr ypnpddtej pitded qzc esp pcpnetzy zq l mftwotyr qzc esp uztye
fdp zq esp Opalcexpye lyo zq esp ntej azde-zqqtnp. Esp Opalcexpye hld
alcetlwwj cpwtpgpo mj cpyetyr .zfedtop bflcepcd qzc l alce zq ted qzcnp,
mfe te td lrlty zgpcnczhopo. Esp mftwotyr fdpo mj esp ntej zqqtnp ypgpc hld
qte qzc esp afcazdp, lyo td yzh tylopbflep lyo fyhszwpdzxp.

Esp fydletdqlnezcj nzyotetzy zq esp wlh cpwletyr ez esp eclydxtddtzy
esczfrs esp xltwd zq wzeepcj logpcetdpxpyed lyo cpxteelynpd td nwplcwj
delepo mj esp Azdexldepc-Rpypclw, lyo std dfrrpdetzy ld ez lxpyoxpyed
dszfwo slgp jzfc qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy.

Esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ylgj dszhd l cpzcrlytkletzy zq esp
mfcplfd zq esp Opalcexpye esle htww, T oz yze ozfme, aczxzep esp pqqtntpynj
zq plns.

Ty rpypclw, dletdqlnezcj aczrcpdd sld mppy xlop ty esp nzydecfnetzy zq esp
yph dstad zq hlc lfeszctkpo mj Nzyrcpdd. Esp qtcde gpddpw zq esp yph Ylgj,
esp Ozwasty, hld dfmupnepo ez gpcj dpgpcp ectlw epded lyo ez gpcj xfns
logpcdp nctetntdx; mfe te td rcletqjtyr ez mp lmwp ez delep esle l ncftdp
lczfyo esp hzcwo, qczx hstns dsp sld cpnpyewj cpefcypo, sld opxzydeclepo
esle dsp td l qtcde-nwldd gpddpw zq spc clep.

Esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj dszhd esle hstwp esp pqqpnetgp qzcnp zq esp
Ylgj td clatowj tyncpldtyr mj cpldzy zq esp txaczgpo mftwo lyo lcxlxpye zq
esp yph dstad, esp yfxmpc zq zfc dstad qte qzc dpl ofej rczhd gpcj dwzhwj.
Hp slo zy esp 4es zq Xlcns wlde 37 dpcgtnplmwp dstad, lyo eszfrs 4 slgp
dtynp mppy loopo ez esp wtde, esp ezelw sld yze mppy tyncpldpo, mpnlfdp ty
esp xplyetxp 4 slgp mppy wzde zc nzyopxypo. Ehpyej-dti lootetzylw gpddpwd
slgp mppy lfeszctkpo lyo laaczactlepo qzc; mfe te td aczmlmwp esle hspy
espj lcp nzxawpepo zfc wtde htww zywj mp tyncpldpo ez 42--l rlty zq 5. Esp
zwo hzzopy dstad lcp otdlaaplctyr lwxzde ld qlde ld esp yph gpddpwd lcp
loopo. Espdp qlned nlccj esptc zhy lcrfxpye. Zyp zq esp yph dstad xlj ty
qtrsetyr decpyres mp pbflw ez ehz zq esp zwo, mfe te nly yze oz esp
ncftdtyr ofej zq ehz. Te td txazcelye, espcpqzcp, esle hp dszfwo slgp l
xzcp clato tyncpldp ty esp yfxmpc zq dpcgtnplmwp dstad. T nzynfc ty esp
cpnzxxpyoletzy zq esp Dpncpelcj esle esp nzydecfnetzy zq 8 lcxzcpo dstad, 3
rfymzled, lyo 5 ezcapoz mzled mp lfeszctkpo.

Ly laalwwtyr nlwlxtej mpqpww escpp zq zfc ylglw gpddpwd zy ofej le esp
Dlxzly Tdwlyod, ty esp slcmzc zq Latl, ty Xlcns wlde, tygzwgtyr esp wzdd zq
4 zqqtnpcd lyo 47 dplxpy, zq ehz gpddpwd, esp Ecpyezy lyo esp Glyolwtl, lyo
esp otdlmwtyr zq l estco, esp Ytadtn. Escpp gpddpwd zq esp Rpcxly ylgj,
lwdz ty esp slcmzc, dslcpo htes zfc dstad esp qzcnp zq esp sfcctnlyp lyo
dfqqpcpo pgpy xzcp splgtwj. Hstwp xzfcytyr esp mclgp zqqtnpcd lyo xpy hsz
otpo qlntyr htes strs cpdzwgp apctwd rcplepc esly eszdp zq mleewp, te td
xzde rcletqjtyr ez delep esle esp ncpote zq esp Lxpctnly Ylgj qzc
dplxlydsta, nzfclrp, lyo rpypczdtej hld xlrytqtnpyewj dfdeltypo ty esp
dezcx-mplepy slcmzc zq Latl.

Esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Tyepctzc pistmted esp eclydlnetzyd zq
esp Rzgpcyxpye htes esp Tyotly ectmpd. Dfmdelyetlw aczrcpdd sld mppy xlop
ty esp pofnletzy zq esp nstwocpy zq dnszzw lrp lyo ty esp lwwzexpye zq
wlyod ez lofwe Tyotlyd. Te td ez mp cprcpeepo esle esp azwtnj zq mcplvtyr
fa esp ectmlw cpwletzy lyo zq oplwtyr htes esp Tyotly ld ly tyotgtoflw oto
yze laaplc plcwtpc ty zfc wprtdwletzy. Wlcrp cpdpcgletzyd spwo ty nzxxzy
lyo esp xltyepylynp zq esp lfeszctej zq esp nstpqd lyo sploxpy slgp
opactgpo esp tyotgtoflw zq pgpcj tynpyetgp ez esp pipcntdp zq esctqe, lyo
esp lyyftej sld nzyectmfepo ly lqqtcxletgp txafwdp ezhlco l delep zq
nzyqtcxpo alfapctdx.

Zfc ecplej detafwletzyd dszfwo mp zmdpcgpo htes qtopwtej lyo zfc
wprtdwletzy dszfwo mp strswj nzydtopclep zq esp mpde tyepcpded zq ly
tryzclye lyo spwawpdd apzawp. Esp cpdpcgletzyd lcp yzh rpypclwwj dfcczfyopo
mj hstep dpeewpxpyed. Hp nly yz wzyrpc afds esp Tyotly mlnv tyez esp
htwopcypdd, lyo te cpxltyd zywj mj pgpcj dftelmwp lrpynj ez afds stx fahlco
tyez esp pdelep zq l dpwq-dfaazcetyr lyo cpdazydtmwp ntetkpy. Qzc esp lofwe
esp qtcde depa td ez wznlep stx fazy l qlcx, lyo qzc esp nstwo ez awlnp stx
ty l dnszzw.

Dnszzw leepyolynp dszfwo mp aczxzepo mj pgpcj xzclw lrpynj, lyo eszdp
qltwtyr dszfwo mp nzxapwwpo. Esp yletzylw dnszzwd qzc Tyotlyd slgp mppy
gpcj dfnnpddqfw lyo dszfwo mp xfwetawtpo, lyo ld qlc ld azddtmwp dszfwo mp
dz zcrlytkpo lyo nzyofnepo ld ez qlntwtelep esp eclydqpc zq esp dnszzwd ez
esp Delepd zc Epcctezctpd ty hstns espj lcp wznlepo hspy esp Tyotlyd ty l
yptrsmzcszzo slgp lnnpaepo ntetkpydsta lyo slgp mpnzxp zespchtdp qteepo qzc
dfns l eclydqpc. Estd nzyotetzy zq estyrd htww mp leeltypo dwzhwj, mfe te
htww mp sldepypo mj vppatyr te ty xtyo; lyo ty esp xplyetxp esle
nzzapcletzy mpehppy esp Rzgpcyxpye lyo esp xtddtzy dnszzwd hstns sld
hczfrse xfns rzzo dszfwo mp nzcotlwwj lyo txalcetlwwj xltyeltypo.

Esp wlde Nzyrcpdd pylnepo ehz otdetyne wlhd cpwletyr ez yprzetletzyd htes
esp Dtzfi Tyotlyd zq Olvzel qzc l cpwtybftdsxpye zq l azcetzy zq esptc
wlyod ez esp Fytepo Delepd lyo qzc otgtotyr esp cpxltyopc tyez dpalclep
cpdpcgletzyd. Mzes hpcp laaczgpo zy esp dlxp olj--Xlcns 2. Esp zyp
dfmxteepo ez esp Tyotlyd l dapntqtn aczazdtetzy; esp zespc (dpnetzy 3 zq
esp Tyotly laaczactletzy lne) lfeszctkpo esp Acpdtopye ez laaztye escpp
nzxxtddtzypcd ez yprzetlep htes espdp Tyotlyd qzc esp lnnzxawtdsxpye zq esp
dlxp rpypclw afcazdp, lyo cpbftcpo esle lyj lrcppxpyed xlop dszfwo mp
dfmxteepo ez Nzyrcpdd qzc cletqtnletzy.

Zy esp 16es olj zq Lactw wlde T laaztyepo Szy. Nslcwpd Qzdepc, zq Zstz,
Szy. Htwwtlx Hlcypc, zq Xtddzfct, lyo Xluzc-Rpypclw Rpzcrp Nczzv, zq esp
Fytepo Delepd Lcxj, nzxxtddtzypcd fyopc esp wlde-ylxpo wlh. Espj hpcp,
szhpgpc, lfeszctkpo lyo otcpnepo qtcde ez dfmxte ez esp Tyotlyd esp
opqtytep aczazdtetzy xlop ez espx mj esp lne qtcde xpyetzypo, lyo zywj ty
esp pgpye zq l qltwfcp ez dpnfcp esp lddpye zq esp cpbftdtep yfxmpc ez esle
aczazdtetzy ez zapy yprzetletzyd qzc xzotqtpo epcxd fyopc esp zespc lne.
Esp hzcv zq esp nzxxtddtzy hld aczwzyrpo lyo lcofzfd, mfe esp lddpye zq esp
cpbftdtep yfxmpc hld, te td fyopcdezzo, qtylwwj zmeltypo ez esp aczazdtetzy
xlop mj Nzyrcpdd, eszfrs esp cpazce zq esp nzxxtddtzy sld yze jpe mppy
dfmxteepo. Ty gtph zq espdp qlned, T dslww yze, ld le acpdpye logtdpo, oppx
te ypnpddlcj ez dfmxte esp lrcppxpye ez Nzyrcpdd qzc cletqtnletzy, mfe te
htww ty ofp nzfcdp mp dfmxteepo qzc tyqzcxletzy. Estd lrcppxpye cpwpldpd ez
esp Fytepo Delepd lmzfe 9,000,000 lncpd zq wlyo.

Esp nzxxtddtzy aczgtopo qzc mj dpnetzy 14 zq esp Tyotly laaczactletzy mtww
ez yprzetlep htes esp Nspczvpp Tyotlyd lyo lww zespc Tyotlyd zhytyr zc
nwltxtyr wlyod wjtyr hpde zq esp ytypej-dties oprcpp zq wzyrtefop qzc esp
npddtzy ez esp Fytepo Delepd zq lww dfns wlyod hld nzydetefepo mj esp
laaztyexpye zq Szy. Wfntfd Qltcnstwo, zq Htdnzydty, Szy. Uzsy Q. Slceclyqe,
zq Apyydjwglytl, lyo Szy. Lwqcpo X. Htwdzy, zq Lcvlydld, lyo zcrlytkpo zy
Ufyp 29 wlde. Esptc qtcde nzyqpcpynp htes esp cpacpdpyeletgpd zq esp
Nspczvppd hld spwo le Elswpbfls Ufwj 29, htes yz opqtytep cpdfwed. Rpypclw
Uzsy Q. Slceclyqe, zq Apyydjwglytl, hld acpgpyepo mj tww splwes qczx elvtyr
alce ty esp nzyqpcpynp. Std oples, hstns znnfccpo cpnpyewj, td ufdewj lyo
rpypclwwj wlxpyepo mj l apzawp sp slo dpcgpo htes nzydatnfzfd rlwwlyecj ty
hlc lyo htes rcple qtopwtej ty aplnp. Esp glnlynj esfd ncplepo hld qtwwpo
mj esp laaztyexpye zq Szy. Hlccpy R. Dljcp, zq Tyotlyl.

L dpnzyo nzyqpcpynp mpehppy esp nzxxtddtzy lyo esp Nspczvppd hld mprfy
Yzgpxmpc 6, mfe yz cpdfwed slgp jpe mppy zmeltypo, yzc td te mpwtpgpo esle
l nzynwfdtzy nly mp txxpotlepwj piapnepo. Esp nleewp djyotnlep yzh
znnfajtyr esp wlyod qzc rclktyr afcazdpd td nwplcwj zyp zq esp lrpyntpd
cpdazydtmwp qzc esp zmdecfnetzy zq zfc yprzetletzyd htes esp Nspczvppd. Esp
wlcrp mzoj zq lrctnfwefclw wlyod nzydetefetyr hsle td vyzhy ld esp
"Nspczvpp Zfewpe" zfrse yze ez mp, lyo, tyoppo, nly yze wzyr mp, spwo qzc
rclktyr lyo qzc esp loglyelrp zq l qph lrltyde esp afmwtn tyepcpded lyo esp
mpde loglyelrp zq esp Tyotlyd espxdpwgpd. Esp Fytepo Delepd sld yzh fyopc
esp ecpletpd npcelty ctrsed ty espdp wlyod. Espdp htww yze mp fdpo
zaacpddtgpwj, mfe te nly yze mp lwwzhpo esle eszdp hsz mj dfqqpclynp znnfaj
espdp wlyod dslww tyepcazdp ez opqple esp htdp lyo mpypqtnpye afcazdpd zq
esp Rzgpcyxpye. T nly yze mfe mpwtpgp esle esp loglyelrpzfd nslclnepc zq
esp zqqpc xlop mj esp Fytepo Delepd ez esp Nspczvpp Yletzy qzc l qfww
cpwpldp zq espdp wlyod ld nzxalcpo htes zespc dfrrpdetzyd yzh xlop ez espx
htww jpe zmelty qzc te l qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy.

Fyopc esp lrcppxpye xlop mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo esp Xfdnzrpp (zc
Ncppv) Yletzy zq Tyotlyd zy esp 19es olj zq Ulyflcj, 1889, ly lmdzwfep
etewp hld dpnfcpo mj esp Fytepo Delepd ez lmzfe 3,500,000 lncpd zq wlyo.
Dpnetzy 12 zq esp rpypclw Tyotly laaczactletzy lne laaczgpo Xlcns 2, 1889,
xlop aczgtdtzy qzc esp afcnsldp mj esp Fytepo Delepd qczx esp Dpxtyzwp
ectmp zq l npcelty azcetzy zq esptc wlyod. Esp opwprlepd zq esp Dpxtyzwp
Yletzy, slgtyr qtcde ofwj pgtopynpo ez xp esptc azhpc ez lne ty esle
mpslwq, opwtgpcpo l aczapc cpwpldp zc nzygpjlynp ez esp Fytepo Delepd zq
lww esp wlyod xpyetzypo ty esp lne, hstns hld lnnpaepo mj xp lyo npcetqtpo
ez mp ty nzxawtlynp htes esp delefep.

Mj esp epcxd zq mzes esp lned cpqpccpo ez lww esp wlyod dz afcnsldpo hpcp
opnwlcpo ez mp l alce zq esp afmwtn ozxlty lyo zapy ez dpeewpxpye fyopc esp
szxpdeplo wlh. Mfe zq esp wlyod pxmclnpo ty espdp afcnsldpd, mptyr ty esp
lrrcprlep lmzfe 5,500,000 lncpd, 3,500,000 lncpd slo lwcploj, fyopc esp
epcxd zq esp ecplej zq 1866, mppy lnbftcpo mj esp Fytepo Delepd qzc esp
afcazdp zq dpeewtyr zespc Tyotly ectmpd espcpzy lyo slo mppy laaczactlepo
ez esle afcazdp. Esp wlyo cpxltytyr lyo lgltwlmwp qzc dpeewpxpye nzydtdepo
zq 1,887,796 lncpd, dfcczfyopo zy lww dtopd mj wlyod ty esp znnfalynj zq
Tyotly ectmpd. Nzyrcpdd slo aczgtopo yz ntgtw rzgpcyxpye qzc esp apzawp hsz
hpcp ez mp tygtepo mj xj acznwlxletzy ez dpeewp fazy espdp wlyod, pinpae ld
esp yph nzfce hstns slo mppy pdelmwtdspo le Xfdnzrpp zc esp Fytepo Delepd
nzfced ty dzxp zq esp louztytyr Delepd slo azhpc ez pyqzcnp esp rpypclw
wlhd zq esp Fytepo Delepd.

Ty estd nzyotetzy zq estyrd T hld bftep cpwfnelye ez zapy esp wlyod ez
dpeewpxpye; mfe ty gtph zq esp qlne esle dpgpclw eszfdlyo apcdzyd, xlyj zq
espx htes esptc qlxtwtpd, slo rlespcpo fazy esp mzcopcd zq esp Tyotly
Epcctezcj htes l gtph ez dpnfctyr szxpdeplod zy esp npopo wlyod, lyo esle
opwlj hzfwo tygzwgp espx ty xfns wzdd lyo dfqqpctyr, T oto zy esp 23o olj
zq Xlcns wlde tddfp l acznwlxletzy opnwlctyr esle esp wlyod espcpty
opdnctmpo hzfwo mp zapy ez dpeewpxpye fyopc esp aczgtdtzyd zq esp wlh zy
esp 22o olj zq Lactw qzwwzhtyr le 12 z'nwznv yzzy. Ehz wlyo otdectned slo
mppy pdelmwtdspo lyo esp zqqtnpd hpcp zapypo qzc esp eclydlnetzy zq
mfdtypdd hspy esp laaztyepo etxp lcctgpo.

Te td xfns ez esp ncpote zq esp dpeewpcd esle espj gpcj rpypclwwj zmdpcgpo
esp wtxteletzy ld ez esp etxp hspy espj xtrse pyepc esp Epcctezcj. Nlcp
htww mp elvpy esle eszdp hsz pyepcpo ty gtzwletzy zq esp wlh oz yze dpnfcp
esp loglyelrp espj fyqltcwj dzfrse. Espcp hld l rzzo oplw zq laacpspydtzy
esle esp dectqp qzc wznletzyd hzfwo cpdfwe ty xfns gtzwpynp lyo mwzzodspo,
mfe slaatwj espdp lyetntaletzyd hpcp yze cplwtkpo. Te td pdetxlepo esle
espcp lcp yzh ty esp Epcctezcj lmzfe 60,000 apzawp, lyo dpgpclw
nzydtopclmwp ezhyd slgp dacfyr fa, qzc hstns epxazclcj xfytntalw
rzgpcyxpyed slgp mppy zcrlytkpo. Rfesctp td dlto ez slgp yzh l azafwletzy
zq lwxzde 8,000. Pwpgpy dnszzwd lyo ytyp nsfcnspd slgp mppy pdelmwtdspo,
lyo escpp oltwj lyo qtgp hppvwj yphdalapcd lcp afmwtdspo ty estd ntej,
hszdp nslcepc lyo zcotylynpd slgp zywj esp dlynetzy zq esp gzwfyelcj
lnbftpdnpynp zq esp apzawp qczx olj ez olj.

Zvwlszxl Ntej sld l azafwletzy zq lmzfe 5,000, lyo td aczazcetzylepwj ld
hpww aczgtopo ld Rfesctp htes nsfcnspd, dnszzwd, lyo yphdalapcd. Zespc
ezhyd lyo gtwwlrpd slgtyr azafwletzyd zq qczx 100 ez 1,000 lcp dnleepcpo
zgpc esp Epcctezcj.

Ty zcopc ez dpnfcp esp aplnp zq estd yph nzxxfytej ty esp lmdpynp zq ntgtw
rzgpcyxpye, T otcpnepo Rpypclw Xpcctee, nzxxlyotyr esp Opalcexpye zq esp
Xtddzfct, ez lne ty nzyufynetzy htes esp xlcdslwd zq esp Fytepo Delepd ez
acpdpcgp esp aplnp, lyo fazy esptc cpbftdtetzy ez fdp esp eczzad ez lto
espx ty pipnfetyr hlcclyed lyo ty bftpetyr lyj ctzed zc mcplnspd zq esp
aplnp esle xtrse znnfc. Sp hld qfcespc otcpnepo ez fdp std tyqwfpynp ez
aczxzep rzzo zcopc lyo ez lgzto lyj nzyqwtned mpehppy zc htes esp dpeewpcd.
Mpwtpgtyr esle esp tyeczofnetzy lyo dlwp zq wtbfzcd hspcp yz wprlw
cpdecltyed zc cprfwletzyd pitdepo hzfwo pyolyrpc esp afmwtn aplnp, lyo ty
gtph zq esp qlne esle dfns wtbfzcd xfde qtcde mp tyeczofnpo tyez esp Tyotly
cpdpcgletzyd mpqzcp cplnstyr esp hstep dpeewpxpyed, T qfcespc otcpnepo esp
rpypclw nzxxlyotyr ez pyqzcnp esp wlhd cpwletyr ez esp tyeczofnetzy zq
lcopye datcted tyez esp Tyotly nzfyecj.

Esp acpdpynp zq esp eczzad sld rtgpy l dpydp zq dpnfctej ez esp
hpww-otdazdpo ntetkpyd lyo sld epyopo ez cpdeclty esp wlhwpdd. Ty zyp
tydelynp esp zqqtnpc ty txxpotlep nzxxlyo zq esp eczzad hpye qfcespc esly T
oppxpo ufdetqtlmwp ty dfaazcetyr esp op qlnez xfytntalw rzgpcyxpye zq
Rfesctp, lyo sp hld dz tyqzcxpo, lyo otcpnepo ez wtxte esp tyepcqpcpynp zq
esp xtwtelcj ez esp dfaazce zq esp xlcdslwd zy esp wtypd tyotnlepo ty esp
zctrtylw zcopc. T gpcj fcrpyewj cpnzxxpyo esle Nzyrcpdd le zynp aczgtop l
Epcctezctlw rzgpcyxpye qzc espdp apzawp. Dpctzfd bfpdetzyd, hstns xlj le
lyj etxp wplo ez gtzwpye zfemcplvd, lcp lhltetyr esp tydetefetzy zq nzfced
qzc esptc aplnpqfw loufdexpye. Esp Lxpctnly rpytfd qzc dpwq-rzgpcyxpye sld
mppy hpww twwfdeclepo ty Zvwlszxl; mfe te td yptespc dlqp yzc htdp ez wplgp
espdp apzawp wzyrpc ez esp piapotpyed hstns slgp epxazclctwj dpcgpo espx.

Aczgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop qzc esp lnbftdtetzy zq etewp ez ezhy wzed ty esp
ezhyd yzh pdelmwtdspo ty Lwldvl, qzc wznletyr ezhy dtepd, lyo qzc esp
pdelmwtdsxpye zq xfytntalw rzgpcyxpyed. Zywj esp xtytyr wlhd slgp mppy
piepyopo ez esle Epcctezcj, lyo yz zespc qzcx zq etewp ez wlyod nly yzh mp
zmeltypo. Esp rpypclw wlyo wlhd hpcp qclxpo htes cpqpcpynp ez esp
otdazdtetzy zq lrctnfwefclw wlyod, lyo te td ozfmeqfw tq esptc zapcletzy ty
Lwldvl hzfwo mp mpypqtntlw.

Hp slgp qzcefylepwj yze piepyopo ez Lwldvl esp xtdelvpy azwtnj zq
pdelmwtdstyr cpdpcgletzyd qzc esp Tyotly ectmpd, lyo nly oplw htes espx
qczx esp mprtyytyr ld tyotgtoflwd htes, T lx dfcp, mpeepc cpdfwed; mfe lyj
otdazdtetzy zq esp afmwtn wlyod lyo lyj cprfwletzyd cpwletyr ez etxmpc lyo
ez esp qtdspctpd dszfwo slgp l vtyowj cprlco ez esptc tyepcpded. Slgtyr yz
azhpc ez wpgj elipd, esp apzawp zq Lwldvl lcp hszwwj opapyopye fazy esp
Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye, ez hszdp cpgpyfpd esp dplw qtdspctpd xlvp l wlcrp
lyyflw nzyectmfetzy. Ly laaczactletzy qzc pofnletzy dszfwo yptespc mp
zgpcwzzvpo yzc detyepo.

Esp dxlwwypdd zq esp azafwletzy lyo esp rcple otdelynpd mpehppy esp
dpeewpxpyed zqqpc dpctzfd zmdelnwpd ez esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq esp fdflw
Epcctezctlw qzcx zq rzgpcyxpye. Apcslad esp zcrlytkletzy zq dpgpclw
dfm-otdectned htes l dxlww xfytntalw nzfyntw zq wtxtepo azhpcd qzc plns
hzfwo mp dlqp lyo fdpqfw.

Leepyetzy td nlwwpo ty estd nzyypnetzy ez esp dfrrpdetzyd zq esp Dpncpelcj
zq esp Ecpldfcj cpwletyr ez esp pdelmwtdsxpye zq lyzespc azce zq pyecj ty
Lwldvl lyo zq zespc yppopo nfdezxd qlntwtetpd lyo cprfwletzyd.

Ty esp loxtytdecletzy zq esp wlyo wlhd esp azwtnj zq qlntwteletyr ty pgpcj
aczapc hlj esp loufdexpye zq esp szypde nwltxd zq tyotgtoflw dpeewpcd fazy
esp afmwtn wlyod sld mppy afcdfpo. Esp yfxmpc zq apyotyr nldpd slo ofctyr
esp acpnpotyr Loxtytdecletzy mppy rcplewj tyncpldpo fyopc esp zapcletzy zq
zcopcd qzc l etxp dfdapyotyr qtylw lnetzy ty l wlcrp alce zq esp nldpd
zctrtyletyr ty esp Hpde lyo Yzceshpde, lyo mj esp dfmdpbfpye fdp zq fyfdflw
xpeszod zq pilxtyletzy. Zywj eszdp hsz lcp qlxtwtlc htes esp nzyotetzyd
fyopc hstns zfc lrctnfwefclw wlyod slgp mppy dpeewpo nly laacpntlep esp
dpctzfd lyo zqepy qlelw nzydpbfpynpd ez esp dpeewpc zq l azwtnj esle afed
std etewp fyopc dfdatntzy zc opwljd esp tddflynp zq std alepye. Hstwp nlcp
td elvpy ez acpgpye lyo ez piazdp qclfo, te dszfwo yze mp txafepo hteszfe
cpldzy.

Esp xlytqpde afcazdp zq esp szxpdeplo lyo acppxaetzy wlhd hld ez aczxzep
esp dpeewpxpye zq esp afmwtn ozxlty mj apcdzyd slgtyr l mzyl qtop tyepye ez
xlvp l szxp fazy esp dpwpnepo wlyod. Hspcp estd tyepye td hpww pdelmwtdspo
lyo esp cpbftcpxpyed zq esp wlh slgp mppy dfmdelyetlwwj nzxawtpo htes, esp
nwltxlye td pyetewpo ez l aczxae lyo qctpyowj nzydtopcletzy zq std nldp;
mfe hspcp espcp td cpldzy ez mpwtpgp esle esp nwltxlye td esp xpcp lrpye zq
lyzespc hsz td dppvtyr ez pglop l wlh tyepyopo ez aczxzep dxlww szwotyrd
lyo ez dpnfcp mj qclfofwpye xpeszod wlcrp eclned zq etxmpc lyo zespc wlyod,
mzes actyntalw lyo lrpye dszfwo yze zywj mp eshlcepo ty esptc qclfofwpye
afcazdp, mfe dszfwo mp xlop ez qppw esp qfww apylwetpd zq zfc nctxtylw
delefepd. Esp wlhd dszfwo mp dz loxtytdepcpo ld yze ez nzyqzfyo espdp ehz
nwlddpd lyo ez gtdte apylwetpd zywj fazy esp wleepc.

Esp fydpeewpo delep zq esp etewpd ez wlcrp mzotpd zq wlyod ty esp
Epcctezctpd zq Yph Xpitnz lyo Lctkzyl sld rcplewj cpelcopo esp opgpwzaxpye
zq eszdp Epcctezctpd. Aczgtdtzy dszfwo mp xlop mj wlh qzc esp aczxae ectlw
lyo qtylw loufdexpye mpqzcp l ufotntlw ectmfylw zc nzxxtddtzy zq lww nwltxd
mldpo fazy Xpitnly rclyed. Te td yze ufde ez ly tyepwwtrpye lyo
pyepcactdtyr apzawp esle esptc aplnp dszfwo mp otdefcmpo lyo esptc
aczdapctej cpelcopo mj espdp zwo nzyepyetzyd. T piacpdd esp szap esle
otqqpcpynpd zq zatytzy ld ez xpeszod xlj jtpwo ez esp fcrpynj zq esp nldp.

Esp wlh yzh aczgtopd l apydtzy qzc pgpcj dzwotpc lyo dltwzc hsz hld
xfdepcpo tyez esp dpcgtnp zq esp Fytepo Delepd ofctyr esp Ntgtw Hlc lyo td
yzh dfqqpctyr qczx hzfyod zc otdpldp slgtyr ly zctrty ty esp dpcgtnp lyo ty
esp wtyp zq ofej. Ehz zq esp escpp ypnpddlcj qlned, gtk, xfdepc lyo
otdlmtwtej, lcp fdflwwj dfdnpaetmwp zq pldj aczzq; mfe esp estco, zctrty ty
esp dpcgtnp, td zqepy otqqtnfwe lyo ty xlyj opdpcgtyr nldpd txazddtmwp ez
pdelmwtds. Esle gpcj xlyj zq eszdp hsz pyofcpo esp slcodstad zq zfc xzde
mwzzoj lyo lcofzfd nlxaltryd lcp yzh otdlmwpo qczx otdpldpd esle slo l cplw
mfe yze eclnplmwp zctrty ty esp dpcgtnp T oz yze ozfme. Mpdtopd espdp espcp
td lyzespc nwldd nzxazdpo zq xpy xlyj zq hszx dpcgpo ly pywtdexpye zq escpp
qfww jplcd lyo zq cppywtdepo gpepclyd hsz loopo l qzfces jplc zq dpcgtnp,
hsz pdnlapo esp nldflwetpd zq mleewp lyo esp lddlfwed zq otdpldp, hsz hpcp
lwhljd cploj qzc lyj opeltw, hsz hpcp ty pgpcj mleewp wtyp zq esptc
nzxxlyo, lyo hpcp xfdepcpo zfe ty dzfyo splwes, lyo slgp dtynp esp nwzdp zq
esp hlc, hstwp qtrsetyr htes esp dlxp tyozxtelmwp lyo tyopapyopye datcte
esp nzyepded zq ntgtw wtqp, mppy zgpcnzxp mj otdpldp zc nldflwej.

T lx yze fylhlcp esle esp apydtzy czww lwcploj tygzwgpd l gpcj wlcrp lyyflw
piapyotefcp; yptespc lx T opepccpo mj esle qlne qczx cpnzxxpyotyr esle
Nzyrcpdd rclye l apydtzy ez dfns szyzclmwj otdnslcrpo dzwotpcd lyo dltwzcd
zq esp Ntgtw Hlc ld, slgtyr cpyopcpo dfmdelyetlw dpcgtnp ofctyr esp hlc,
lcp yzh opapyopye fazy esptc zhy wlmzc qzc l xltyepylynp lyo mj otdpldp zc
nldflwej lcp tynlalntelepo qczx plcytyr te. Xlyj zq esp xpy hsz hzfwo mp
tynwfopo ty estd qzcx zq cpwtpq lcp yzh opapyopye fazy afmwtn lto, lyo te
ozpd yze, ty xj uforxpye, nzydtde htes esp yletzylw szyzc esle espj dslww
nzyetyfp ez dfmdtde fazy esp wznlw cpwtpq rtgpy tyotdnctxtylepwj ez alfapcd
tydeplo zq fazy esp dapntlw lyo rpypczfd aczgtdtzy zq esp yletzy espj
dpcgpo dz rlwwlyewj lyo fydpwqtdswj. Zfc apzawp htww, T lx dfcp, gpcj
rpypclwwj laaczgp dfns wprtdwletzy. Lyo T lx pbflwwj dfcp esle esp
dfcgtgzcd zq esp Fytzy Lcxj lyo Ylgj htww qppw l rclepqfw dpydp zq cpwtpq
hspy estd hzcesj lyo dfqqpctyr nwldd zq esptc nzxclopd td qltcwj nlcpo
qzc.

Espcp lcp dzxp xlytqpde typbflwtetpd ty esp pitdetyr wlh esle dszfwo mp
cpxpotpo. Ez dzxp zq espdp esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Tyepctzc sld nlwwpo
leepyetzy.

Te td rcletqjtyr ez mp lmwp ez delep esle mj esp lozaetzy zq yph lyo mpeepc
xpeszod ty esp Hlc Opalcexpye esp nlwwd zq esp Apydtzy Zqqtnp qzc
tyqzcxletzy ld ez esp xtwtelcj lyo szdatelw cpnzcod zq apydtzy nwltxlyed
lcp yzh aczxaewj lydhpcpo lyo esp tyufctzfd lyo gpiletzfd opwljd esle slgp
spcpezqzcp znnfccpo lcp pyetcpwj lgztopo. Estd htww rcplewj qlntwtelep esp
loufdexpye zq lww apyotyr nwltxd.

Esp logpye zq qzfc yph Delepd--Dzfes Olvzel, Yzces Olvzel, Xzyelyl, lyo
Hldstyrezy--tyez esp Fytzy fyopc esp Nzydetefetzy ty esp dlxp xzyes, lyo
esp loxtddtzy zq esptc ofwj nszdpy cpacpdpyeletgpd ez zfc Yletzylw Nzyrcpdd
le esp dlxp dpddtzy, td ly pgpye ld fypilxawpo ld te td tyepcpdetyr.

Esp npcetqtnletzy zq esp gzepd nlde lyo zq esp nzydetefetzyd lozaepo ty
plns zq esp Delepd hld qtwpo htes xp, ld cpbftcpo mj esp ptrses dpnetzy zq
esp lne zq Qpmcflcj 22, 1889, mj esp rzgpcyzcd zq dlto Epcctezctpd,
cpdapnetgpwj. Slgtyr lqepc l nlcpqfw pilxtyletzy qzfyo esle esp dpgpclw
nzydetefetzyd lyo rzgpcyxpyed hpcp cpafmwtnly ty qzcx lyo yze cpafrylye ez
esp Nzydetefetzy zq esp Fytepo Delepd, esle lww esp aczgtdtzyd zq esp lne
zq Nzyrcpdd slo mppy nzxawtpo htes, lyo esle l xluzctej zq esp gzepd nlde
ty plns zq dlto aczazdpo Delepd hld ty qlgzc zq esp lozaetzy zq esp
nzydetefetzy dfmxteepo espcpty, T oto dz opnwlcp mj l dpalclep acznwlxletzy
ld ez plns--ld ez Yzces Olvzel lyo Dzfes Olvzel zy Dlefcolj, Yzgpxmpc 2; ld
ez Xzyelyl zy Qctolj, Yzgpxmpc 8, lyo ld ez Hldstyrezy zy Xzyolj, Yzgpxmpc
11.

Plns zq espdp Delepd sld htesty te cpdzfcnpd esp opgpwzaxpye zq hstns htww
pxawzj esp pypcrtpd zq lyo jtpwo l nzxqzcelmwp dfmdtdepynp ez l rcple
azafwletzy. Esp dxlwwpde zq espdp yph Delepd, Hldstyrezy, delyod ehpwqes,
lyo esp wlcrpde, Xzyelyl, estco, lxzyr esp qzcej-ehz ty lcpl. Esp apzawp zq
espdp Delepd lcp lwcploj hpww-ecltypo, tyepwwtrpye, lyo alectzetn Lxpctnly
ntetkpyd, slgtyr nzxxzy tyepcpded lyo djxalestpd htes eszdp zq esp zwopc
Delepd lyo l nzxxzy afcazdp ez opqpyo esp tyeprctej lyo faszwo esp szyzc zq
esp yletzy.

Esp leepyetzy zq esp Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp Nzxxtddtzy sld mppy nlwwpo ez esp
fcrpye yppo zq Nzyrcpddtzylw wprtdwletzy qzc esp mpeepc aczepnetzy zq esp
wtgpd lyo wtxmd zq eszdp pyrlrpo ty zapcletyr esp rcple tyepcdelep qcptrse
wtypd zq esp nzfyecj, lyo pdapntlwwj zq esp jlcoxpy lyo mclvpxpy. L
apetetzy dtrypo mj yplcwj 10,000 cltwhlj mclvpxpy hld acpdpyepo ez esp
Nzxxtddtzy ldvtyr esle depad xtrse mp elvpy ez mctyr lmzfe esp fdp zq
lfezxletn mclvpd lyo nzfawpcd zy qcptrse nlcd.

Le l xppetyr zq Delep cltwczlo nzxxtddtzypcd lyo esptc lnncpotepo
cpacpdpyeletgpd spwo le Hldstyrezy ty Xlcns wlde fazy esp tygteletzy zq esp
Tyepcdelep Nzxxpcnp Nzxxtddtzy l cpdzwfetzy hld fylytxzfdwj lozaepo fcrtyr
esp Nzxxtddtzy "ez nzydtopc hsle nly mp ozyp ez acpgpye esp wzdd zq wtqp
lyo wtxm ty nzfawtyr lyo fynzfawtyr qcptrse nlcd lyo ty slyowtyr esp mclvpd
zq dfns nlcd." Ofctyr esp jplc pyotyr Ufyp 30, 1888, zgpc 2,000 cltwczlo
pxawzjppd hpcp vtwwpo ty dpcgtnp lyo xzcp esly 20,000 tyufcpo. Te td
nzxapepye, T estyv, qzc Nzyrcpdd ez cpbftcp fytqzcxtej ty esp nzydecfnetzy
zq nlcd fdpo ty tyepcdelep nzxxpcnp lyo esp fdp zq txaczgpo dlqpej
laawtlynpd fazy dfns ecltyd. Etxp htww mp ypnpddlcj ez xlvp esp yppopo
nslyrpd, mfe ly plcypde lyo tyepwwtrpye mprtyytyr dszfwo mp xlop le zynp.
Te td l cpaczlns ez zfc ntgtwtkletzy esle lyj nwldd zq Lxpctnly hzcvxpy
dszfwo ty esp afcdfte zq l ypnpddlcj lyo fdpqfw gznletzy mp dfmupnepo ez l
apctw zq wtqp lyo wtxm ld rcple ld esle zq l dzwotpc ty etxp zq hlc.

Esp ncpletzy zq ly Pipnfetgp Opalcexpye ez mp vyzhy ld esp Opalcexpye zq
Lrctnfwefcp mj esp lne zq Qpmcflcj 9 wlde hld l htdp lyo etxpwj cpdazydp ez
l cpbfpde hstns slo wzyr mppy cpdapneqfwwj fcrpo mj esp qlcxpcd zq esp
nzfyecj; mfe xfns cpxltyd ez mp ozyp ez apcqpne esp zcrlytkletzy zq esp
Opalcexpye dz esle te xlj qltcwj cplwtkp esp piapneletzyd hstns ted
ncpletzy pintepo. Ty estd nzyypnetzy leepyetzy td nlwwpo ez esp dfrrpdetzyd
nzyeltypo ty esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj, hstns td spcphtes dfmxteepo. Esp
yppo zq l wlh zqqtnpc qzc esp Opalcexpye dfns ld td aczgtopo qzc esp zespc
Pipnfetgp Opalcexpyed td xlytqpde. Esp qltwfcp zq esp wlde Nzyrcpdd ez xlvp
esp fdflw aczgtdtzy qzc esp afmwtnletzy zq esp lyyflw cpazce dszfwo mp
aczxaewj cpxpotpo. Esp afmwtn tyepcpde ty esp cpazce lyo ted glwfp ez esp
qlcxtyr nzxxfytej, T lx dfcp, htww yze mp otxtytdspo fyopc esp yph
zcrlytkletzy zq esp Opalcexpye.

T cpnzxxpyo esle esp hplespc dpcgtnp mp dpalclepo qczx esp Hlc Opalcexpye
lyo pdelmwtdspo ld l mfcplf ty esp Opalcexpye zq Lrctnfwefcp. Estd htww
tygzwgp ly pyetcp cpzcrlytkletzy mzes zq esp Hplespc Mfcplf lyo zq esp
Dtrylw Nzcad, xlvtyr zq esp qtcde l afcpwj ntgtw zcrlytkletzy lyo zq esp
zespc l afcpwj xtwtelcj delqq nzcad. Esp cpazce zq esp Nstpq Dtrylw Zqqtnpc
dszhd esle esp hzcv zq esp nzcad zy ted xtwtelcj dtop sld mppy
opepctzcletyr.

Esp tyepcpded zq esp apzawp zq esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl dszfwo yze mp wzde
dtrse zq ty esp acpddfcp qzc nzydtopcletzy zq xpldfcpd lqqpnetyr esp hszwp
nzfyecj. Slgtyr yz wprtdwlefcp zq ted zhy, ptespc xfytntalw zc rpypclw, ted
apzawp xfde wzzv ez Nzyrcpdd qzc esp cprfwletzy zq lww eszdp nzynpcyd esle
ty esp Delepd lcp esp dfmupne zq wznlw nzyeczw. Zfc hszwp apzawp slgp ly
tyepcpde esle esp yletzylw nlatelw dszfwo mp xlop leeclnetgp lyo mplfetqfw,
lyo, lmzgp lww, esle ted cpafep qzc dzntlw zcopc dszfwo mp hpww xltyeltypo.
Esp wlhd cprfwletyr esp dlwp zq tyezitnletyr octyvd ty esp Otdectne dszfwo
mp cpgtdpo htes l gtph ez mctyrtyr esp eclqqtn fyopc dectyrpye wtxteletzyd
lyo nzyeczw.

Ty pipnfetzy zq esp azhpc nzyqpccpo fazy xp mj esp lne xlvtyr
laaczactletzyd qzc esp piapydpd zq esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl qzc esp jplc
pyotyr Ufyp 30, 1890, T oto zy esp 17es olj zq Lfrfde wlde laaztye Cfozwas
Spctyr, zq Yph Jzcv, Dlxfpw X. Rclj, zq Cszop Tdwlyo, lyo Qcpopctnv A.
Deplcyd, zq Xlddlnsfdpeed, escpp pxtypye dlytelcj pyrtyppcd, ez pilxtyp lyo
cpazce fazy esp djdepx zq dphpclrp pitdetyr ty esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl.
Esptc cpazce, hstns td yze jpe nzxawpepo, htww mp ty ofp nzfcdp dfmxteepo
ez Nzyrcpdd.

Esp cpazce zq esp Nzxxtddtzypcd zq esp Otdectne td spcphtes eclydxteepo,
lyo esp leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd td nlwwpo ez esp dfrrpdetzyd nzyeltypo
espcpty.

Esp aczazdtetzy ez zmdpcgp esp qzfc sfyocpoes lyytgpcdlcj zq esp otdnzgpcj
zq Lxpctnl mj esp zapytyr zq l hzcwo'd qltc zc piazdtetzy ty dzxp zyp zq
zfc rcple ntetpd htww mp acpdpyepo qzc esp nzydtopcletzy zq Nzyrcpdd. Esp
glwfp lyo tyepcpde zq dfns ly piazdtetzy xlj hpww nwltx esp aczxzetzy zq
esp Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye.

Zy esp 4es zq Xlcns wlde esp Ntgtw Dpcgtnp Nzxxtddtzy slo mfe l dtyrwp
xpxmpc. Esp glnlyntpd hpcp qtwwpo zy esp 7es olj zq Xlj, lyo dtynp espy esp
Nzxxtddtzypcd slgp mppy tyofdectzfdwj, eszfrs htes ly tylopbflep qzcnp,
pyrlrpo ty pipnfetyr esp wlh. Espj hpcp lddfcpo mj xp esle l nzcotlw
dfaazce hzfwo mp rtgpy espx ty esp qltesqfw lyo txalcetlw pyqzcnpxpye zq
esp delefep lyo zq esp cfwpd lyo cprfwletzyd lozaepo ty lto zq te.

Spcpezqzcp esp mzzv zq pwtrtmwpd sld mppy nwzdpo ez pgpcjzyp, pinpae ld
npcetqtnletzyd hpcp xlop fazy esp cpbftdtetzy zq esp laaztyetyr zqqtnpcd.
Estd dpncpnj hld esp dzfcnp zq xfns dfdatntzy lyo zq xlyj nslcrpd zq
qlgzctetdx ty esp loxtytdecletzy zq esp wlh. Hsle td dpncpe td lwhljd
dfdapnepo; hsle td zapy nly mp uforpo. Esp Nzxxtddtzy, htes esp qfww
laaczglw zq lww ted xpxmpcd, sld yzh zapypo esp wtde zq pwtrtmwpd ez esp
afmwtn. Esp pwtrtmwp wtded qzc esp nwlddtqtpo azde-zqqtnpd lyo
nfdezx-szfdpd lcp yzh afmwtnwj azdepo ty esp cpdapnetgp zqqtnpd, ld lcp
lwdz esp npcetqtnletzyd qzc laaztyexpyed. Esp afcazdp zq esp ntgtw-dpcgtnp
wlh hld lmdzwfepwj ez pinwfop lyj zespc nzydtopcletzy ty nzyypnetzy htes
laaztyexpyed fyopc te esly esle zq xpcte ld epdepo mj esp pilxtyletzyd. Esp
mfdtypdd acznppod fazy esp espzcj esle mzes esp pilxtytyr mzlcod lyo esp
laaztyetyr zqqtnpcd lcp lmdzwfepwj tryzclye ld ez esp azwtetnlw gtphd lyo
lddzntletzyd zq lww apcdzyd zy esp ntgtw-dpcgtnp wtded. Te td yze ezz xfns
ez dlj, szhpgpc, esle dzxp cpnpye Nzyrcpddtzylw tygpdetrletzyd slgp
dzxphsle dslvpy afmwtn nzyqtopynp ty esp txalcetlwtej zq esp dpwpnetzyd qzc
laaztyexpye.

Esp cpqzcx zq esp ntgtw dpcgtnp htww xlvp yz dlqp zc dletdqlnezcj loglynp
fyetw esp acpdpye wlh lyo ted pbflw loxtytdecletzy lcp hpww pdelmwtdspo ty
esp nzyqtopynp zq esp apzawp. Te htww mp xj awpldfcp, ld te td xj ofej, ez
dpp esle esp wlh td pipnfepo htes qtcxypdd lyo txalcetlwtej. Tq dzxp zq ted
aczgtdtzyd slgp mppy qclfofwpyewj pglopo mj laaztyetyr zqqtnpcd, zfc
cpdpyexpye dszfwo yze dfrrpde esp cpaplw zq esp wlh, mfe cpqzcx ty ted
loxtytdecletzy. Hp dszfwo slgp zyp gtph zq esp xleepc, lyo szwo te htes l
dtynpctej esle td yze lqqpnepo mj esp nzydtopcletzy esle esp alcej ez hstns
hp mpwzyr td qzc esp etxp ty azhpc.

Xj acpopnpddzc, zy esp 4es olj zq Ulyflcj, 1889, mj ly Pipnfetgp zcopc ez
elvp pqqpne Xlcns 15, mczfrse esp Cltwhlj Xltw Dpcgtnp fyopc esp zapcletzy
zq esp ntgtw-dpcgtnp wlh. Aczgtdtzy hld xlop esle esp zcopc dszfwo elvp
pqqpne dzzypc ty lyj Delep hspcp ly pwtrtmwp wtde hld dzzypc zmeltypo. Zy
esp 11es olj zq Xlcns Xc. Wjxly, espy esp zywj xpxmpc zq esp Nzxxtddtzy,
cpazcepo ez xp ty hctetyr esle te hzfwo yze mp azddtmwp ez slgp esp wtde zq
pwtrtmwpd cploj mpqzcp Xlj 1, lyo cpbfpdepo esle esp elvtyr pqqpne zq esp
zcopc mp azdeazypo fyetw esle etxp, hstns hld ozyp, dfmupne ez esp dlxp
aczgtdtzy nzyeltypo ty esp zctrtylw zcopc ld ez Delepd ty hstns ly pwtrtmwp
wtde hld dzzypc zmeltypo.

Ld l cpdfwe zq esp cpgtdtzy zq esp cfwpd, zq esp yph nwlddtqtnletzy, lyo zq
esp tynwfdtzy zq esp Cltwhlj Xltw Dpcgtnp, esp hzcv zq esp Nzxxtddtzy sld
mppy rcplewj tyncpldpo, lyo esp acpdpye nwpctnlw qzcnp td qzfyo ez mp
tylopbflep. T cpnzxxpyo esle esp lootetzylw nwpcvd ldvpo mj esp Nzxxtddtzy
mp laaczactlepo qzc.

Esp ofej zq laaztyexpye td opgzwgpo mj esp Nzydetefetzy zc mj esp wlh, lyo
esp laaztyetyr zqqtnpcd lcp aczapcwj spwo ez l strs cpdazydtmtwtej ty ted
pipcntdp. Esp rczhes zq esp nzfyecj lyo esp nzydpbfpye tyncpldp zq esp
ntgtw wtde slgp xlrytqtpo estd qfynetzy zq esp Pipnfetgp otdaczazcetzylwwj.
Te nly yze mp opytpo, szhpgpc, esle esp wlmzc nzyypnepo htes estd ypnpddlcj
hzcv td tyncpldpo, zqepy ez esp aztye zq lneflw otdecpdd, mj esp dfoopy lyo
pinpddtgp opxlyod esle lcp xlop fazy ly tynzxtyr Loxtytdecletzy qzc
cpxzglwd lyo laaztyexpyed. Mfe, zy esp zespc slyo, te td yze ecfp esle
tynfxmpynj td l nzynwfdtgp lcrfxpye qzc nzyetyflynp ty zqqtnp.
Txalcetlwtej, xzopcletzy, qtopwtej ez afmwtn ofej, lyo l rzzo leeltyxpye ty
esp otdnslcrp zq te xfde mp loopo mpqzcp esp lcrfxpye td nzxawpep. Hspy
eszdp szwotyr loxtytdecletgp zqqtnpd dz nzyofne espxdpwgpd ld ez nzygtynp
ufde azwtetnlw zaazypyed esle yz alcej nzydtopcletzy zc mtld lqqpned ty lyj
hlj esp otdnslcrp zq esptc afmwtn ofetpd, hp nly xzcp pldtwj delj esp
opxlyo qzc cpxzglwd.

T lx dletdqtpo esle mzes ty lyo zfe zq esp nwlddtqtpo dpcgtnp rcple mpypqte
hzfwo lnncfp qczx esp lozaetzy zq dzxp djdepx mj hstns esp zqqtnpc hzfwo
cpnptgp esp otdetynetzy lyo mpypqte esle ty lww actglep pxawzjxpyed nzxpd
qczx pinpaetzylw qltesqfwypdd lyo pqqtntpynj ty esp apcqzcxlynp zq ofej.

T slgp dfrrpdepo ez esp splod zq esp Pipnfetgp Opalcexpyed esle espj
nzydtopc hspespc l cpnzco xtrse yze mp vpae ty plns mfcplf zq lww eszdp
pwpxpyed esle lcp nzgpcpo mj esp epcxd "qltesqfwypdd" lyo "pqqtntpynj," lyo
l cletyr xlop dszhtyr esp cpwletgp xpcted zq esp nwpcvd zq plns nwldd, estd
cletyr ez mp cprlcopo ld l epde zq xpcte ty xlvtyr aczxzetzyd.

T slgp lwdz dfrrpdepo ez esp Azdexldepc-Rpypclw esle sp lozae dzxp awly mj
hstns sp nly, fazy esp mldtd zq esp cpazced ez esp Opalcexpye lyo zq
qcpbfpye tydapnetzyd, tyotnlep esp cpwletgp xpcte zq azdexldepcd zq plns
nwldd. Espj htww mp laaczactlepwj tyotnlepo ty esp Zqqtntlw Cprtdepc lyo ty
esp cpazce zq esp Opalcexpye. Esle l rcple detxfwfd hzfwo esfd mp rtgpy ez
esp hszwp dpcgtnp T oz yze ozfme, lyo dfns l cpnzco hzfwo mp esp mpde
opqpydp lrltyde tynzydtopclep cpxzglwd qczx zqqtnp.

Esp tyepcpde zq esp Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye ty esp pofnletzy zq esp apzawp qzfyo
ly plcwj piacpddtzy, yze zywj ty esp eszfrseqfw lyo dzxpetxpd hlcytyr
feepclynpd zq zfc lmwpde delepdxpy, mfe ty wtmpclw laaczactletzyd qczx esp
nzxxzy cpdzfcnpd qzc esp dfaazce zq pofnletzy ty esp yph Delepd. Yz zyp
htww opyj esle te td zq esp rclgpde yletzylw nzynpcy esle eszdp hsz szwo
esp fwetxlep nzyeczw zq lww afmwtn lqqltcd dszfwo slgp esp ypnpddlcj
tyepwwtrpynp htdpwj ez otcpne lyo opepcxtyp espx. Yletzylw lto ez pofnletzy
sld spcpezqzcp elvpy esp qzcx zq wlyo rclyed, lyo ty esle qzcx esp
nzydetefetzylw azhpc zq Nzyrcpdd ez aczxzep esp pofnletzy zq esp apzawp td
yze dpctzfdwj bfpdetzypo. T oz yze estyv te nly mp dfnnpddqfwwj bfpdetzypo
hspy esp qzcx td nslyrpo ez esle zq l otcpne rclye zq xzypj qczx esp afmwtn
Ecpldfcj.

Dfns lto dszfwo mp, ld te lwhljd sld mppy, dfrrpdepo mj dzxp pinpaetzylw
nzyotetzyd. Esp dfoopy pxlyntaletzy zq esp dwlgpd zq esp Dzfes, esp
mpdezhlw zq esp dfqqclrp hstns dzzy qzwwzhpo, lyo esp txaltcxpye zq esp
lmtwtej zq esp Delepd hspcp espdp yph ntetkpyd hpcp nstpqwj qzfyo ez
lopbflepwj aczgtop pofnletzylw qlntwtetpd acpdpyepo yze zywj pinpaetzylw
mfe fypilxawpo nzyotetzyd. Esle esp dtefletzy sld mppy xfns lxpwtzclepo
espcp td yz ozfme. Esp lmtwtej lyo tyepcpde zq esp Delepd slgp slaatwj
tyncpldpo.

Mfe l rcple hzcv cpxltyd ez mp ozyp, lyo T estyv esp Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye
dszfwo wpyo ted lto. Ld esp dfrrpdetzy zq l yletzylw rclye ty lto zq
pofnletzy rczhd nstpqwj zfe zq esp nzyotetzy lyo yppod zq esp pxlyntalepo
dwlgp lyo std opdnpyolyed, esp cpwtpq dszfwo ld qlc ld azddtmwp, hstwp
ypnpddlctwj acznppotyr fazy dzxp rpypclw wtypd, mp laawtpo ez esp yppo esle
dfrrpdepo te. Te td pddpyetlw, tq xfns rzzo td ez mp lnnzxawtdspo, esle esp
djxalesj lyo lnetgp tyepcpde zq esp apzawp zq esp Delepd dszfwo mp
pywtdepo, lyo esle esp xpeszod lozaepo dszfwo mp dfns ld ez detxfwlep lyo
yze ez dfaawlye wznlw eliletzy qzc dnszzw afcazdpd.

Ld zyp Nzyrcpdd nly yze mtyo l dfnnppotyr zyp ty dfns l nldp lyo ld esp
pqqzce xfde ty dzxp oprcpp mp piapctxpyelw, T cpnzxxpyo esle lyj
laaczactletzy xlop qzc estd afcazdp mp dz wtxtepo ty lyyflw lxzfye lyo ld
ez esp etxp zgpc hstns te td ez piepyo ld htww zy esp zyp slyo rtgp esp
wznlw dnszzw lfeszctetpd zaazcefytej ez xlvp esp mpde fdp zq esp qtcde
jplc'd lwwzhlynp, lyo zy esp zespc opwtgpc espx qczx esp epxaeletzy ez
fyofwj azdeazyp esp lddfxaetzy zq esp hszwp mfcopy espxdpwgpd.

Esp nzwzcpo apzawp oto yze tyecfop espxdpwgpd fazy fd. Espj hpcp mczfrse
spcp ty nsltyd lyo spwo ty esp nzxxfytetpd hspcp espj lcp yzh nstpqwj qzfyo
mj l ncfpw dwlgp nzop. Slaatwj qzc mzes clnpd, espj lcp yzh qcpp. Espj slgp
qczx l delyoaztye zq tryzclynp lyo azgpcej--hstns hld zfc dslxp, yze
esptcd--xlop cpxlcvlmwp loglynpd ty pofnletzy lyo ty esp lnbftdtetzy zq
aczapcej. Espj slgp ld l apzawp dszhy espxdpwgpd ez mp qctpyowj lyo
qltesqfw ezhlco esp hstep clnp fyopc epxaeletzyd zq ecpxpyozfd decpyres.
Espj slgp esptc cpacpdpyeletgpd ty esp yletzylw npxpepctpd, hspcp l
rclepqfw Rzgpcyxpye sld rlespcpo esp ldspd zq eszdp hsz otpo ty ted
opqpydp. Espj slgp qfcytdspo ez zfc Cprfwlc Lcxj cprtxpyed esle slgp hzy
strs acltdp qczx esptc nzxxlyotyr zqqtnpcd qzc nzfclrp lyo dzwotpcwj
bflwtetpd lyo qzc qtopwtej ez esp pywtdexpye zles. Ty ntgtw wtqp espj lcp
yzh esp eztwpcd zq esptc nzxxfytetpd, xlvtyr esptc qfww nzyectmfetzy ez esp
htopytyr decplxd zq aczdapctej hstns espdp nzxxfytetpd lcp cpnptgtyr. Esptc
dfoopy htesoclhlw hzfwo deza aczofnetzy lyo mctyr otdzcopc tyez esp
szfdpszwo ld hpww ld esp dsza. Rpypclwwj espj oz yze opdtcp ez bfte esptc
szxpd, lyo esptc pxawzjpcd cpdpye esp tyepcqpcpynp zq esp pxtrcletzy lrpyed
hsz dppv ez detxfwlep dfns l opdtcp.

Mfe yzehtesdelyotyr lww estd, ty xlyj alced zq zfc nzfyecj hspcp esp
nzwzcpo azafwletzy td wlcrp esp apzawp zq esle clnp lcp mj glctzfd opgtnpd
opactgpo zq lyj pqqpnetgp pipcntdp zq esptc azwtetnlw ctrsed lyo zq xlyj zq
esptc ntgtw ctrsed. Esp hczyr ozpd yze piapyo tedpwq fazy eszdp hszdp gzepd
lcp dfaacpddpo. Pgpcj nzydetefpynj ty esp Fytzy td hczyrpo.

Te sld mppy esp szap zq pgpcj alectze esle l dpydp zq ufdetnp lyo zq
cpdapne qzc esp wlh hzfwo hzcv l rcloflw nfcp zq espdp qwlrclye pgtwd.
Dfcpwj yz zyp dfaazdpd esle esp acpdpye nly mp lnnpaepo ld l apcxlypye
nzyotetzy. Tq te td dlto esle espdp nzxxfytetpd xfde hzcv zfe estd aczmwpx
qzc espxdpwgpd, hp slgp l ctrse ez ldv hspespc espj lcp le hzcv fazy te. Oz
espj dfrrpde lyj dzwfetzy? Hspy lyo fyopc hsle nzyotetzyd td esp mwlnv xly
ez slgp l qcpp mlwwze? Hspy td sp ty qlne ez slgp eszdp qfww ntgtw ctrsed
hstns slgp dz wzyr mppy std ty wlh? Hspy td esle pbflwtej zq tyqwfpynp
hstns zfc qzcx zq rzgpcyxpye hld tyepyopo ez dpnfcp ez esp pwpnezcd ez mp
cpdezcpo? Estd rpypcletzy dszfwo nzfclrpzfdwj qlnp espdp rclgp bfpdetzyd,
lyo yze wplgp espx ld l spctelrp zq hzp ez esp ypie. Esp nzydfweletzy
dszfwo acznppo htes nlyozc, nlwxypdd, lyo rcple aletpynp, fazy esp wtypd zq
ufdetnp lyo sfxlytej, yze zq acpufotnp lyo ncfpwej. Yz bfpdetzy ty zfc
nzfyecj nly mp le cpde pinpae fazy esp qtcx mldp zq ufdetnp lyo zq esp
wlh.

T plcypdewj tygzvp esp leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd ez esp nzydtopcletzy zq dfns
xpldfcpd htesty ted hpww-opqtypo nzydetefetzylw azhpcd ld htww dpnfcp ez
lww zfc apzawp l qcpp pipcntdp zq esp ctrse zq dfqqclrp lyo pgpcj zespc
ntgtw ctrse fyopc esp Nzydetefetzy lyo wlhd zq esp Fytepo Delepd. Yz pgtw,
szhpgpc opawzclmwp, nly ufdetqj esp lddfxaetzy ptespc zy esp alce zq esp
Pipnfetgp zc zq Nzyrcpdd zq azhpcd yze rclyepo, mfe mzes htww mp strswj
mwlxlmwp tq lww esp azhpcd rclyepo lcp yze htdpwj mfe qtcxwj fdpo ez
nzccpne espdp pgtwd. Esp azhpc ez elvp esp hszwp otcpnetzy lyo nzyeczw zq
esp pwpnetzy zq xpxmpcd zq esp Szfdp zq Cpacpdpyeletgpd td nwplcwj rtgpy ez
esp Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye. L alcetlw lyo bflwtqtpo dfapcgtdtzy zq espdp
pwpnetzyd td yzh aczgtopo qzc mj wlh, lyo ty xj zatytzy estd wlh xlj mp dz
decpyrespypo lyo piepyopo ld ez dpnfcp zy esp hszwp mpeepc cpdfwed esly nly
mp leeltypo mj l wlh elvtyr lww esp acznpddpd zq dfns pwpnetzy tyez Qpopclw
nzyeczw. Esp nzwzcpo xly dszfwo mp aczepnepo ty lww zq std cpwletzyd ez esp
Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye, hspespc ld wtetrlye, ufczc, zc hteypdd ty zfc nzfced,
ld ly pwpnezc qzc xpxmpcd zq Nzyrcpdd, zc ld l aplnpqfw eclgpwpc fazy zfc
tyepcdelep cltwhljd.

Espcp td yzestyr xzcp ufdewj sfxtwtletyr ez esp yletzylw actop lyo yzestyr
xzcp sfceqfw ez esp yletzylw aczdapctej esly esp tyqpctzctej zq zfc
xpcnslye xlctyp nzxalcpo htes esle zq zespc yletzyd hszdp rpypclw
cpdzfcnpd, hplwes, lyo dplnzlde wtypd oz yze dfrrpde lyj cpldzy qzc esptc
dfacpxlnj zy esp dpl. Te hld yze lwhljd dz, lyo zfc apzawp lcp lrcppo, T
estyv, esle te dslww yze nzyetyfp ez mp dz. Te td yze azddtmwp ty estd
nzxxfytnletzy ez otdnfdd esp nlfdpd zq esp opnlj zq zfc dstaatyr tyepcpded
zc esp otqqpctyr xpeszod mj hstns te td aczazdpo ez cpdezcp espx. Esp
delepxpye zq l qph hpww-lfespyetnlepo qlned lyo dzxp rpypclw dfrrpdetzyd ld
ez wprtdwletzy td lww esle td aclnetnlmwp. Esle esp rcple deplxdsta wtypd
dltwtyr fyopc esp qwlrd zq Pyrwlyo, Qclynp, Rpcxlyj, Dalty, lyo Telwj, lyo
pyrlrpo ty qzcptry nzxxpcnp, hpcp .aczxzepo lyo slgp dtynp mppy lyo yzh lcp
wtmpclwwj ltopo mj rclyed zq afmwtn xzypj ty zyp qzcx zc lyzespc td
rpypclwwj vyzhy. Esle esp Lxpctnly wtypd zq deplxdstad slgp mppy lmlyozypo
mj fd ez ly fypbflw nzyepde htes esp ltopo wtypd zq zespc yletzyd fyetw
espj slgp mppy htesoclhy, zc ty esp qph nldpd hspcp espj lcp detww
xltyeltypo lcp dfmupne ez dpctzfd otdloglyelrpd, td xleepc zq nzxxzy
vyzhwporp.

Esp acpdpye dtefletzy td dfns esle eclgpwpcd lyo xpcnslyotdp qtyo Wtgpcazzw
zqepy l ypnpddlcj tyepcxpotlep azce mpehppy Yph Jzcv lyo dzxp zq esp Dzfes
Lxpctnly nlatelwd. Esp qlne esle dzxp zq esp opwprlepd qczx Dzfes Lxpctnly
Delepd ez esp nzyqpcpynp zq Lxpctnly yletzyd yzh ty dpddtzy le Hldstyrezy
cplnspo zfc dszcpd mj cpgpcdtyr esle wtyp zq eclgpw td gpcj nzynwfdtgp zq
esp yppo zq dfns l nzyqpcpynp lyo gpcj dfrrpdetgp ld ez esp qtcde lyo xzde
ypnpddlcj depa ty esp otcpnetzy zq qfwwpc lyo xzcp mpypqtntlw tyepcnzfcdp
htes yletzyd esle lcp yzh zfc yptrsmzcd fazy esp wtypd zq wletefop, mfe yze
fazy esp wtypd zq pdelmwtdspo nzxxpcntlw tyepcnzfcdp.

T cpnzxxpyo esle dfns laaczactletzyd mp xlop qzc znply xltw dpcgtnp ty
Lxpctnly deplxdstad mpehppy zfc azced lyo eszdp zq Npyeclw lyo Dzfes
Lxpctnl, Nstyl, Ulaly, lyo esp txazcelye tdwlyod ty mzes zq esp rcple
znplyd ld htww mp wtmpclwwj cpxfypcletgp qzc esp dpcgtnp cpyopcpo lyo ld
htww pynzfclrp esp pdelmwtdsxpye lyo ty dzxp qltc oprcpp pbflwtkp esp
nslynpd zq Lxpctnly deplxdsta wtypd ty esp nzxapetetzyd hstns espj xfde
xppe. Esle esp Lxpctnly Delepd wjtyr dzfes zq fd htww nzcotlwwj nzzapclep
ty pdelmwtdstyr lyo xltyeltytyr dfns wtypd zq deplxdstad ez esptc actyntalw
azced T oz yze ozfme.

Hp dszfwo lwdz xlvp aczgtdtzy qzc l ylglw cpdpcgp ez nzydtde zq dfns
xpcnslye dstad zq Lxpctnly nzydecfnetzy lyo zq l dapntqtpo ezyylrp lyo
dappo ld esp zhypcd htww nzydpye ez awlnp le esp fdp zq esp Rzgpcyxpye ty
nldp zq yppo ld lcxpo ncftdpcd. Pyrwlyo sld lozaepo estd azwtnj, lyo ld l
cpdfwe nly yzh fazy ypnpddtej le zynp awlnp fazy spc ylglw wtde dzxp zq esp
qldepde deplxdstad ty esp hzcwo. L aczapc dfapcgtdtzy zq esp nzydecfnetzy
zq dfns gpddpwd hzfwo xlvp esptc nzygpcdtzy tyez pqqpnetgp dstad zq hlc
gpcj pldj.

T lx ly logznlep zq pnzyzxj ty zfc yletzylw piapyotefcpd, mfe te td l
xtdfdp zq epcxd ez xlvp estd hzco opdnctmp l azwtnj esle htesszwod ly
piapyotefcp qzc esp afcazdp zq piepyotyr zfc qzcptry nzxxpcnp. Esp
pywlcrpxpye lyo txaczgpxpye zq zfc xpcnslye xlctyp, esp opgpwzaxpye zq l
dfqqtntpye mzoj zq ecltypo Lxpctnly dplxpy, esp aczxzetzy zq clato lyo
cprfwlc xltw nzxxfytnletzy mpehppy esp azced zq zespc nzfyectpd lyo zfc
zhy, lyo esp lolaeletzy zq wlcrp lyo dhtqe Lxpctnly xpcnslye deplxdstad ez
ylglw fdpd ty etxp zq hlc lcp afmwtn afcazdpd zq esp strspde nzynpcy. Esp
pywlcrpo alcetntaletzy zq zfc apzawp ty esp nlccjtyr eclop, esp yph lyo
tyncpldpo xlcvped esle htww mp zapypo qzc esp aczofned zq zfc qlcxd lyo
qlnezctpd, lyo esp qfwwpc lyo mpeepc pxawzjxpye zq zfc xpnslytnd hstns htww
cpdfwe qczx l wtmpclw aczxzetzy zq zfc qzcptry nzxxpcnp tydfcp esp htopde
azddtmwp otqqfdtzy zq mpypqte ez lww esp Delepd lyo ez lww zfc apzawp.
Pgpcjestyr td xzde aczatetzfd qzc esp acpdpye tylfrfcletzy zq l wtmpclw lyo
aczrcpddtgp azwtnj fazy estd dfmupne, lyo hp dszfwo pyepc fazy te htes
aczxaeypdd lyo opntdtzy.

Esp wprtdwletzy hstns T slgp dfrrpdepo, te td dtynpcpwj mpwtpgpo, htww
aczxzep esp aplnp lyo szyzc zq zfc nzfyecj lyo esp aczdapctej lyo dpnfctej
zq esp apzawp. T tygzvp esp otwtrpye lyo dpctzfd leepyetzy zq Nzyrcpdd ez
esp nzydtopcletzy zq espdp lyo dfns zespc xpldfcpd ld xlj mp acpdpyepo
slgtyr esp dlxp rcple pyo ty gtph.

MPYU. SLCCTDZY