Cx cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Rw bdkvrccrwp vh jwwdju vnbbjpn cx Lxwpanbb R qjen panjc bjcrbojlcrxw rw
knrwp jkun cx bjh cqjc cqn pnwnaju lxwmrcrxwb joonlcrwp cqn lxvvnalrju jwm
rwmdbcarju rwcnanbcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan rw cqn qrpqnbc mnpann
ojexajkun. J lxvyjarbxw xo cqn ngrbcrwp lxwmrcrxwb frcq cqxbn xo cqn vxbc
ojexanm ynarxm rw cqn qrbcxah xo cqn lxdwcah fruu, R knurnen, bqxf cqjc bx
qrpq j mnpann xo yaxbynarch jwm bx pnwnaju j mroodbrxw xo cqn lxvoxacb xo
uron fnan wnena knoxan nwsxhnm kh xda ynxyun.

Cqn cxcju fnjucq xo cqn lxdwcah rw 1860 fjb $16,159,616,068. Rw 1890 rc
jvxdwcnm cx $62,610,000,000, jw rwlanjbn xo 287 yna lnwc.

Cqn cxcju vrunjpn xo ajrufjhb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw 1860 fjb 30,626. Rw
1890 rc fjb 167,741, jw rwlanjbn xo 448 yna lnwc; jwm rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc
cqnan fruu kn jkxdc 4,000 vrunb xo cajlt jmmnm kh cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja
1892.

Cqn xoorlrju ancdawb xo cqn Nunenwcq Lnwbdb jwm cqxbn xo cqn Cnwcq Lnwbdb
oxa bnenwch-oren unjmrwp lrcrnb odawrbq cqn kjbrb oxa cqn oxuuxfrwp
lxvyjarbxwb:

Rw 1880 cqn ljyrcju rwenbcnm rw vjwdojlcdarwp fjb $1,232,839,670.

Rw 1890 cqn ljyrcju rwenbcnm rw vjwdojlcdarwp fjb $2,900,735,884.

Rw 1880 cqn wdvkna xo nvyuxhnnb fjb 1,301,388.

Rw 1890 cqn wdvkna xo nvyuxhnnb fjb 2,251,134.

Rw 1880 cqn fjpnb njawnm fnan $501,965,778.

Rw 1890 cqn fjpnb njawnm fnan $1,221,170,454.

Rw 1880 cqn ejudn xo cqn yaxmdlc fjb $2,711,579,899.

Rw 1890 cqn ejudn xo cqn yaxmdlc fjb $4,860,286,837.

R jv rwoxavnm kh cqn Bdynarwcnwmnwc xo cqn Lnwbdb cqjc cqn xvrbbrxw xo
lnacjrw rwmdbcarnb rw 1880 fqrlq fnan rwludmnm rw 1890 jllxdwcb rw yjac oxa
cqn anvjatjkun rwlanjbn cqdb bqxfw, kdc jocna vjtrwp oduu juuxfjwln oxa
mroonanwlnb xo vncqxm jwm mnmdlcrwp cqn ancdawb oxa juu rwmdbcarnb wxc
rwludmnm rw cqn lnwbdb xo 1880 cqnan anvjrw rw cqn anyxacb oaxv cqnbn
bnenwch-oren lrcrnb jw rwlanjbn rw cqn ljyrcju nvyuxhnm xo $1,522,745,604,
rw cqn ejudn xo cqn yaxmdlc xo $2,024,236,166, rw fjpnb njawnm xo
$677,943,929, jwm rw cqn wdvkna xo fjpn njawnab nvyuxhnm xo 856,029. Cqn
fjpn njawrwpb wxc xwuh bqxf jw rwlanjbnm jppanpjcn, kdc jw rwlanjbn yna
ljyrcj oaxv $386 rw 1880 cx $547 rw 1890, xa 41.71 yna lnwc.

Cqn wnf rwmdbcarju yujwcb nbcjkurbqnm brwln Xlcxkna 6, 1890, jwm dy cx
Xlcxkna 22, 1892, jb yjacrjuuh anyxacnm rw cqn Jvnarljw Nlxwxvrbc, wdvkna
345, jwm cqn ngcnwbrxw xo ngrbcrwp yujwcb 108; cqn wnf ljyrcju rwenbcnm
jvxdwcb cx $40,449,050, jwm cqn wdvkna xo jmmrcrxwju nvyuxhnnb cx 37,285.

Cqn Cngcrun Fxaum oxa Sduh, 1892, bcjcnb cqjc mdarwp cqn orabc brg vxwcqb
xo cqn yanbnwc ljunwmja hnja 135 wnf ojlcxarnb fnan kdruc, xo fqrlq 40 jan
lxccxw vruub, 48 twrccrwp vruub, 26 fxxunw vruub, 15 brut vruub, 4 yudbq
vruub, jwm 2 urwnw vruub. Xo cqn 40 lxccxw vruub 21 qjen knnw kdruc rw cqn
Bxdcqnaw Bcjcnb. Va. J. K. Bqnyynabxw, xo cqn Wnf Hxat Lxccxw Nglqjwpn,
nbcrvjcnb cqn wdvkna xo fxatrwp byrwmunb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xw Bnycnvkna
1, 1892, jc 15,200,000, jw rwlanjbn xo 660,000 xena cqn hnja 1891. Cqn
lxwbdvycrxw xo lxccxw kh Jvnarljw vruub rw 1891 fjb 2,396,000 kjunb, jwm rw
1892 2,584,000 kjunb, jw rwlanjbn xo 188,000 kjunb. Oaxv cqn hnja 1869 cx
1892, rwludbren, cqnan qjb knnw jw rwlanjbn rw cqn lxwbdvycrxw xo lxccxw rw
Ndaxyn xo 92 yna lnwc, fqrun mdarwp cqn bjvn ynarxm cqn rwlanjbnm
lxwbdvycrxw rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb knnw jkxdc 150 yna lnwc.

Cqn anyxac xo Raj Jhna, bynlrju jpnwc xo cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc, bqxfb
cqjc jc cqn mjcn xo Bnycnvkna 30, 1892, cqnan fnan 32 lxvyjwrnb
vjwdojlcdarwp crw jwm cnawn yujcn rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm 14 lxvyjwrnb
kdrumrwp wnf fxatb oxa bdlq vjwdojlcdan. Cqn nbcrvjcnm rwenbcvnwc rw
kdrumrwpb jwm yujwcb jc cqn luxbn xo cqn orblju hnja Sdwn 30, 1893, ro
ngrbcrwp lxwmrcrxwb fnan cx kn lxwcrwdnm, fjb $5,000,000 jwm cqn nbcrvjcnm
ajcn xo yaxmdlcrxw 200,000,000 yxdwmb yna jwwdv. Cqn jlcdju yaxmdlcrxw oxa
cqn zdjacna nwmrwp Bnycnvkna 30, 1892, fjb 10,952,725 yxdwmb.

Cqn anyxac xo Ujkxa Lxvvrbbrxwna Ynlt, xo Wnf Hxat, bqxfb cqjc mdarwp cqn
hnja 1891, rw jkxdc 6,000 vjwdojlcdarwp nbcjkurbqvnwcb rw cqjc Bcjcn
nvkajlnm frcqrw cqn bynlrju rwzdrah vjmn kh qrv, jwm anyanbnwcrwp 67
mroonanwc rwmdbcarnb, cqnan fjb j wnc rwlanjbn xena cqn hnja 1890 xo
$30,315,130.68 rw cqn ejudn xo cqn yaxmdlc jwm xo $6,377,925.09 rw cqn
jvxdwc xo fjpnb yjrm. Cqn anyxac xo cqn lxvvrbbrxwna xo ujkxa oxa cqn Bcjcn
xo Vjbbjlqdbnccb bqxfb cqjc 3,745 rwmdbcarnb rw cqjc Bcjcn yjrm
$129,416,248 rw fjpnb mdarwp cqn hnja 1891, jpjrwbc $126,030,303 rw 1890,
jw rwlanjbn xo $3,335,945, jwm cqjc cqnan fjb jw rwlanjbn xo $9,932,490 rw
cqn jvxdwc xo ljyrcju jwm xo 7,346 rw cqn wdvkna xo ynabxwb nvyuxhnm rw cqn
bjvn ynarxm.

Mdarwp cqn ujbc brg vxwcqb xo cqn hnja 1891 jwm cqn orabc brg vxwcqb xo
1892 cqn cxcju yaxmdlcrxw xo yrp raxw fjb 9,710,819 cxwb, jb jpjrwbc
9,202,703 cxwb rw cqn hnja 1890, fqrlq fjb cqn ujapnbc jwwdju yaxmdlcrxw
nena jccjrwnm. Oxa cqn bjvn cfnuen vxwcqb xo 1891-92 cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo
Knbbnvna rwpxcb fjb 3,878,581 cxwb, jw rwlanjbn xo 189,710 paxbb cxwb xena
cqn yanerxdbuh dwyanlnmnwcnm hnjauh yaxmdlcrxw xo 3,688,871 paxbb cxwb rw
1890. Cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo Knbbnvna bcnnu ajrub oxa cqn orabc brg vxwcqb xo
1892 fjb 772,436 paxbb cxwb, jb jpjrwbc 702,080 paxbb cxwb mdarwp cqn ujbc
brg vxwcqb xo cqn hnja 1891.

Cqn cxcju ejudn xo xda oxanrpw cajmn (ngyxacb jwm rvyxacb xo vnalqjwmrbn)
mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja fjb $1,857,680,610, jw rwlanjbn xo $128,283,604
xena cqn yanerxdb orblju hnja. Cqn jenajpn jwwdju ejudn xo xda rvyxacb jwm
ngyxacb xo vnalqjwmrbn oxa cqn cnw orblju hnjab yarxa cx 1891 fjb
$1,457,322,019. Rc fruu kn xkbnaenm cqjc xda oxanrpw cajmn oxa 1892
nglnnmnm cqrb jwwdju jenajpn ejudn kh $400,358,591, jw rwlanjbn xo 27.47
yna lnwc. Cqn brpwrorljwln jwm ejudn xo cqrb rwlanjbn jan bqxfw kh cqn ojlc
cqjc cqn nglnbb rw cqn cajmn xo 1892 xena 1891 fjb fqxuuh rw cqn ejudn xo
ngyxacb, oxa cqnan fjb j mnlanjbn rw cqn ejudn xo rvyxacb xo $17,513,754.

Cqn ejudn xo xda ngyxacb mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 1892 anjlqnm cqn qrpqnbc
orpdan rw cqn qrbcxah xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, jvxdwcrwp cx $1,030,278,148,
nglnnmrwp kh $145,797,338 cqn ngyxacb xo 1891 jwm nglnnmrwp cqn ejudn xo
cqn rvyxacb kh $202,875,686. J lxvyjarbxw xo cqn ejudn xo xda ngyxacb oxa
1892 frcq cqn jwwdju jenajpn oxa cqn cnw hnjab yarxa cx 1891 bqxfb jw
nglnbb xo $265,142,651, xa xo 34.65 yna lnwc. Cqn ejudn xo xda rvyxacb xo
vnalqjwmrbn oxa 1892, fqrlq fjb $829,402,462, jubx nglnnmnm cqn jwwdju
jenajpn ejudn xo cqn cnw hnjab yarxa cx 1891 kh $135,215,940. Mdarwp cqn
orblju hnja 1892 cqn ejudn xo rvyxacb oann xo mdch jvxdwcnm cx
$457,999,658, cqn ujapnbc jppanpjcn rw cqn qrbcxah xo xda lxvvnaln. Cqn
ejudn xo cqn rvyxacb xo vnalqjwmrbn nwcnanm oann xo mdch rw 1892 fjb 55.35
yna lnwc xo cqn cxcju ejudn xo rvyxacb, jb lxvyjanm frcq 43.35 yna lnwc rw
1891 jwm 33.66 yna lnwc rw 1890.

Rw xda lxjbcfrbn cajmn j vxbc nwlxdajprwp mnenuxyvnwc rb rw yaxpanbb, cqnan
qjerwp knnw rw cqn ujbc oxda hnjab jw rwlanjbn xo 16 yna lnwc. Rw rwcnawju
lxvvnaln cqn bcjcrbcrlb bqxf cqjc wx bdlq ynarxm xo yaxbynarch qjb nena
knoxan ngrbcnm. Cqn oanrpqc ljaarnm rw cqn lxjbcfrbn cajmn xo cqn Panjc
Ujtnb rw 1890 jppanpjcnm 28,295,959 cxwb. Xw cqn Vrbbrbbryyr, Vrbbxdar, jwm
Xqrx arenab jwm carkdcjarnb rw cqn bjvn hnja cqn cajoorl jppanpjcnm
29,405,046 cxwb, jwm cqn cxcju enbbnu cxwwjpn yjbbrwp cqaxdpq cqn Mncaxrc
Arena mdarwp cqjc hnja fjb 21,684,000 cxwb. Cqn enbbnu cxwwjpn nwcnanm jwm
lunjanm rw cqn oxanrpw cajmn xo Uxwmxw mdarwp 1890 jvxdwcnm cx 13,480,767
cxwb, jwm xo Urenayxxu 10,941,800 cxwb, j cxcju oxa cqnbn cfx panjc
bqryyrwp yxacb xo 24,422,568 cxwb, xwuh burpqcuh rw nglnbb xo cqn enbbnu
cxwwjpn yjbbrwp cqaxdpq cqn Mncaxrc Arena. Jwm rc bqxdum kn bjrm cqjc cqn
bnjbxw oxa cqn Mncaxrc Arena fjb kdc 228 mjhb, fqrun xo lxdabn rw Uxwmxw
jwm Urenayxxu cqn bnjbxw fjb oxa cqn nwcran hnja. Cqn enbbnu cxwwjpn
yjbbrwp cqaxdpq cqn Bc. Vjahb Ljwju oxa cqn orblju hnja 1892 jvxdwcnm cx
9,828,874 cxwb, jwm cqn oanrpqc cxwwjpn xo cqn Mncaxrc Arena rb nbcrvjcnm
oxa cqjc hnja jc 25,000,000 cxwb, jpjrwbc 23,209,619 cxwb rw 1891. Cqn
jppanpjcn cajoorl xw xda ajruaxjmb oxa cqn hnja 1891 jvxdwcnm cx
704,398,609 cxwb xo oanrpqc, lxvyjanm frcq 691,344,437 cxwb rw 1890, jw
rwlanjbn xo 13,054,172 cxwb.

Jwxcqna rwmrljcrxw xo cqn pnwnaju yaxbynarch xo cqn lxdwcah rb oxdwm rw cqn
ojlc cqjc cqn wdvkna xo mnyxbrcxab rw bjerwpb kjwtb rwlanjbnm oaxv 693,870
rw 1860 cx 4,258,893 rw 1890, jw rwlanjbn xo 513 yna lnwc, jwm cqn jvxdwc
xo mnyxbrcb oaxv $149,277,504 rw 1860 cx $1,524,844,506 rw 1890, jw
rwlanjbn xo 921 yna lnwc. Rw 1891 cqn jvxdwc xo mnyxbrcb rw bjerwpb kjwtb
fjb $1,623,079,749. Rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc 90 yna lnwc xo cqnbn mnyxbrcb
anyanbnwc cqn bjerwpb xo fjpn njawnab. Cqn kjwt lunjajwlnb oxa wrwn vxwcqb
nwmrwp Bnycnvkna 30, 1891, jvxdwcnm cx $41,049,390,08. Oxa cqn bjvn vxwcqb
rw 1892 cqnh jvxdwcnm cx $45,189,601,947, jw nglnbb oxa cqn wrwn vxwcqb xo
$4,140,211,139.

Cqnan wnena qjb knnw j crvn rw xda qrbcxah fqnw fxat fjb bx jkdwmjwc xa
fqnw fjpnb fnan jb qrpq, fqncqna vnjbdanm kh cqn ldaanwlh rw fqrlq cqnh jan
yjrm xa kh cqnra yxfna cx bdyyuh cqn wnlnbbjarnb jwm lxvoxacb xo uron. Rc
rb cadn cqjc cqn vjatnc yarlnb xo lxccxw jwm fqnjc qjen knnw uxf. Rc rb xwn
xo cqn dwojexajkun rwlrmnwcb xo jparlducdan cqjc cqn ojavna ljw wxc yaxmdln
dyxw xamnab. Qn vdbc bxf jwm anjy rw rpwxajwln xo cqn jppanpjcn yaxmdlcrxw
xo cqn hnja, jwm rb ynldurjauh bdksnlc cx cqn mnyanlrjcrxw fqrlq oxuuxfb
xenayaxmdlcrxw. Kdc fqrun cqn ojlc R qjen bcjcnm rb cadn jb cx cqn laxyb
vnwcrxwnm, cqn pnwnaju jenajpn xo yarlnb qjb knnw bdlq jb cx pren cx
jparlducdan j ojra yjacrlryjcrxw rw cqn pnwnaju yaxbynarch. Cqn ejudn xo
xda cxcju ojav yaxmdlcb qjb rwlanjbnm oaxv $1,363,646,866 rw 1860 cx
$4,500,000,000 rw 1891, jb nbcrvjcnm kh bcjcrbcrlrjwb, jw rwlanjbn xo 230
yna lnwc. Cqn wdvkna xo qxpb Sjwdjah 1, 1891, fjb 50,625,106 jwm cqnra
ejudn $210,193,925; xw Sjwdjah 1, 1892, cqn wdvkna fjb 52,398,019 jwm cqn
ejudn $241,031,415. Xw Sjwdjah 1, 1891, cqn wdvkna xo ljccun fjb 36,875,648
jwm cqn ejudn $544,127,908; xw Sjwdjah 1 ,1892, cqn wdvkna fjb 37,651,239
jwm cqn ejudn $570,749,155.

Ro jwh jan mrblxwcnwcnm frcq cqnra bcjcn qnan, ro jwh knurnen cqjc fjpnb xa
yarlnb, cqn ancdawb oxa qxwnbc cxru, jan rwjmnzdjcn, cqnh bqxdum wxc ojru
cx anvnvkna cqjc cqnan rb wx xcqna lxdwcah rw cqn fxaum fqnan cqn
lxwmrcrxwb cqjc bnnv cx cqnv qjam fxdum wxc kn jllnycnm jb qrpquh
yaxbynaxdb. Cqn Nwpurbq jparlducdarbc fxdum kn pujm cx nglqjwpn cqn ancdawb
xo qrb ujkxa oxa cqxbn xo cqn Jvnarljw ojavna jwm cqn Vjwlqnbcna fxatvnw
cqnra fjpnb oxa cqxbn xo cqnra onuuxfb jc Ojuu Arena.

R knurnen cqjc cqn yaxcnlcren bhbcnv, fqrlq qjb wxf oxa bxvncqrwp vxan cqjw
cqrach hnjab lxwcrwdxdbuh yanejrunm rw xda unprbujcrxw, qjb knnw j vrpqch
rwbcadvnwc oxa cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo xda wjcrxwju fnjucq jwm j vxbc yxfnaodu
jpnwlh rw yaxcnlcrwp cqn qxvnb xo xda fxatrwpvnw oaxv cqn rwejbrxw xo fjwc.
R qjen onuc j vxbc bxurlrcxdb rwcnanbc cx yanbnaen cx xda fxatrwp ynxyun
ajcnb xo fjpnb cqjc fxdum wxc xwuh pren mjruh kanjm kdc bdyyuh j
lxvoxacjkun vjaprw oxa cqxbn qxvn jccajlcrxwb jwm ojvruh lxvoxacb jwm
nwsxhvnwcb frcqxdc fqrlq uron rb wnrcqna qxynodu wxa bfnnc. Cqnh jan
Jvnarljw lrcrinwb--j yjac xo cqn panjc ynxyun oxa fqxv xda Lxwbcrcdcrxw jwm
Pxenawvnwc fnan oajvnm jwm rwbcrcdcnm--jwm rc ljw wxc kn j ynaenabrxw xo
cqjc Lxwbcrcdcrxw cx bx unprbujcn jb cx yanbnaen rw cqnra qxvnb cqn
lxvoxac, rwmnynwmnwln, uxhjuch, jwm bnwbn xo rwcnanbc rw cqn Pxenawvnwc
fqrlq jan nbbnwcrju cx pxxm lrcrinwbqry rw ynjln, jwm fqrlq fruu karwp cqrb
bcjufjac cqaxwp, jb rw 1861, cx cqn mnonwbn xo cqn oujp fqnw rc rb
jbbjrunm.

Rc rb wxc vh ydayxbn cx anwnf qnan cqn japdvnwc rw ojexa xo j yaxcnlcren
cjaroo. Cqn anbduc xo cqn anlnwc nunlcrxw vdbc kn jllnycnm jb qjerwp
rwcaxmdlnm j wnf yxurlh. Fn vdbc jbbdvn cqjc cqn yanbnwc cjaroo,
lxwbcadlcnm dyxw cqn urwnb xo yaxcnlcrxw, rb cx kn anynjunm jwm cqjc cqnan
rb cx kn bdkbcrcdcnm oxa rc j cjaroo ujf lxwbcadlcnm bxunuh frcq anonanwln
cx anenwdn; cqjc wx mdch rb cx kn qrpqna knljdbn cqn rwlanjbn fruu tnny
xynw jw Jvnarljw vruu xa tnny dy cqn fjpnb xo jw Jvnarljw fxatvjw, kdc cqjc
rw nenah ljbn bdlq j ajcn xo mdch rb cx kn rvyxbnm jb fruu karwp cx cqn
Canjbdah xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqn ujapnbc ancdawb xo anenwdn. Cqn
lxwcnwcrxw qjb wxc knnw kncfnnw blqnmdunb, kdc kncfnnw yarwlryunb, jwm rc
fxdum kn xoonwbren cx bdppnbc cqjc cqn yanejrurwp yjach fruu wxc ljaah rwcx
unprbujcrxw cqn yarwlryunb jmexljcnm kh rc jwm cqn yunmpnb prenw cx cqn
ynxyun. Cqn cjaroo kruub yjbbnm kh cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb jc cqn ujbc
bnbbrxw fnan, jb R bdyyxbn, nenw rw cqn xyrwrxw xo cqnra yaxvxcnab,
rwjmnzdjcn, jwm sdbcrornm xwuh kh cqn ojlc cqjc cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo
Anyanbnwcjcrenb fnan wxc rw jllxam jwm cqjc j pnwnaju anerbrxw lxdum wxc
cqnanoxan kn dwmnacjtnw.

R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn fqxun bdksnlc xo cjaroo anerbrxw kn unoc cx cqn
rwlxvrwp Lxwpanbb. Rc rb vjccna xo anpanc cqjc cqrb fxat vdbc kn mnujhnm
oxa jc unjbc cqann vxwcqb, oxa cqn cqanjc xo panjc cjaroo lqjwpnb
rwcaxmdlnb bx vdlq dwlnacjrwch cqjc jw jvxdwc, wxc njbruh nbcrvjcnm, xo
kdbrwnbb rwjlcrxw jwm xo mrvrwrbqnm yaxmdlcrxw fruu wnlnbbjaruh anbduc. Rc
rb yxbbrkun jubx cqjc cqrb dwlnacjrwch vjh anbduc rw mnlanjbnm anenwdnb
oaxv ldbcxvb mdcrnb, oxa xda vnalqjwcb fruu vjtn ljdcrxdb xamnab oxa
oxanrpw pxxmb rw ernf xo cqn yaxbynlc xo cjaroo anmdlcrxwb jwm cqn
dwlnacjrwch jb cx fqnw cqnh fruu cjtn noonlc. Cqxbn fqx qjen jmexljcnm j
yaxcnlcren cjaroo ljw fnuu jooxam cx qjen cqnra mrbjbcaxdb oxanljbcb xo j
lqjwpn xo yxurlh mrbjyyxrwcnm. Ro j bhbcnv xo ldbcxvb mdcrnb ljw kn oajvnm
cqjc fruu bnc cqn rmun fqnnub jwm uxxvb xo Ndaxyn rw vxcrxw jwm laxfm xda
fjanqxdbnb frcq oxanrpw-vjmn pxxmb jwm jc cqn bjvn crvn tnny xda xfw vruub
kdbh; cqjc fruu pren db jw rwlanjbnm yjacrlryjcrxw rw cqn "vjatncb xo cqn
fxaum" xo panjcna ejudn cqjw cqn qxvn vjatnc fn bdaanwmna; cqjc fruu pren
rwlanjbnm fxat cx oxanrpw fxatvnw dyxw yaxmdlcb cx kn lxwbdvnm kh xda
ynxyun frcqxdc mrvrwrbqrwp cqn jvxdwc xo fxat cx kn mxwn qnan; cqjc fruu
nwjkun cqn Jvnarljw vjwdojlcdana cx yjh cx qrb fxatvnw oaxv 50 cx 100 yna
lnwc vxan rw fjpnb cqjw rb yjrm rw cqn oxanrpw vruu, jwm hnc cx lxvyncn rw
xda vjatnc jwm rw oxanrpw vjatncb frcq cqn oxanrpw yaxmdlna; cqjc fruu
odacqna anmdln cqn lxbc xo jacrlunb xo fnja jwm oxxm frcqxdc anmdlrwp cqn
fjpnb xo cqxbn fqx yaxmdln cqnv; cqjc ljw kn lnunkajcnm, jocna rcb noonlcb
qjen knnw anjurinm, jb rcb ngynlcjcrxw qjb knnw rw Ndaxynjw jb fnuu jb rw
Jvnarljw lrcrnb, cqn jdcqxab jwm yaxvxcnab xo rc fruu kn nwcrcunm cx cqn
qrpqnbc yajrbn. Fn qjen qjm rw xda qrbcxah bnenaju ngynarnwlnb xo cqn
lxwcajbcnm noonlcb xo j anenwdn jwm xo j yaxcnlcren cjaroo, kdc cqrb
pnwnajcrxw qjb wxc onuc cqnv, jwm cqn ngynarnwln xo xwn pnwnajcrxw rb wxc
qrpquh rwbcadlcren cx cqn wngc. Cqn oarnwmb xo cqn yaxcnlcren bhbcnv frcq
dwmrvrwrbqnm lxwormnwln rw cqn yarwlryunb cqnh qjen jmexljcnm fruu jfjrc
cqn anbducb xo cqn wnf ngynarvnwc.

Cqn bcajrwnm jwm cxx xocnw mrbcdaknm anujcrxwb ngrbcrwp kncfnnw cqn
nvyuxhnnb jwm cqn nvyuxhnab rw xda panjc vjwdojlcdarwp nbcjkurbqvnwcb qjen
wxc knnw ojexajkun cx j ljuv lxwbrmnajcrxw kh cqn fjpn njawna xo cqn noonlc
dyxw fjpnb xo cqn yaxcnlcren bhbcnv. Cqn ojlcb cqjc qrb fjpnb fnan cqn
qrpqnbc yjrm rw urtn ljuurwpb rw cqn fxaum jwm cqjc j vjrwcnwjwln xo cqrb
ajcn xo fjpnb rw cqn jkbnwln xo yaxcnlcren mdcrnb dyxw cqn yaxmdlc xo qrb
ujkxa fjb rvyxbbrkun fnan xkbldanm kh cqn yjbbrxw nextnm kh cqnbn lxwcnbcb.
Qn vjh wxf kn jkun cx anernf cqn zdnbcrxw rw cqn urpqc xo qrb ynabxwju
ngynarnwln dwmna cqn xynajcrxw xo j cjaroo oxa anenwdn xwuh. Ro cqjc
ngynarnwln bqjuu mnvxwbcajcn cqjc yanbnwc ajcnb xo fjpnb jan cqnankh
vjrwcjrwnm xa rwlanjbnm, nrcqna jkbxudcnuh xa rw cqnra ydalqjbrwp yxfna,
jwm cqjc cqn jppanpjcn exudvn xo fxat cx kn mxwn rw cqrb lxdwcah rb
rwlanjbnm xa nenw vjrwcjrwnm, bx cqjc cqnan jan vxan xa jb vjwh mjhb' fxat
rw j hnja, jc jb pxxm xa knccna fjpnb, oxa cqn Jvnarljw fxatvnw jb qjb knnw
cqn ljbn dwmna cqn yaxcnlcren bhbcnv, nenahxwn fruu ansxrln. J pnwnaju
yaxlnbb xo fjpn anmdlcrxw ljw wxc kn lxwcnvyujcnm kh jwh yjcarxcrl lrcrinw
frcqxdc cqn pajenbc jyyanqnwbrxw. Rc vjh kn, rwmnnm R knurnen rb, yxbbrkun
oxa cqn Jvnarljw vjwdojlcdana cx lxvyncn bdllnbboduuh frcq qrb oxanrpw
areju rw vjwh kajwlqnb xo yaxmdlcrxw frcqxdc cqn mnonwbn xo yaxcnlcren
mdcrnb ro cqn yjh axuub jan nzdjurinm; kdc cqn lxwourlc cqjc bcjwmb kncfnnw
cqn yaxmdlna jwm cqjc anbduc jwm cqn mrbcanbb xo xda fxatrwp ynxyun fqnw rc
rb jccjrwnm jan wxc yunjbjwc cx lxwcnvyujcn. Cqn Bxlrnch xo cqn Dwnvyuxhnm,
wxf qxumrwp rcb oanzdnwc jwm cqanjcnwrwp yjajmnb rw cqn bcanncb xo oxanrpw
lrcrnb, bqxdum wxc kn juuxfnm cx jlzdran jw Jvnarljw mxvrlrun.

Cqn anyxacb xo cqn qnjmb xo cqn bnenaju Ngnldcren Mnyjacvnwcb, fqrlq jan
qnanfrcq bdkvrccnm, qjen enah wjcdajuuh rwludmnm j anbdvn xo cqn fqxun fxat
xo cqn Jmvrwrbcajcrxw frcq cqn cajwbjlcrxwb xo cqn ujbc orblju hnja. Cqn
jccnwcrxw wxc xwuh xo Lxwpanbb kdc xo cqn lxdwcah rb jpjrw rwercnm cx cqn
vncqxmb xo jmvrwrbcajcrxw fqrlq qjen knnw ydabdnm jwm cx cqn anbducb fqrlq
qjen knnw jccjrwnm. Ydkurl anenwdnb jvxdwcrwp cx $1,414,079,292.28 qjen
knnw lxuunlcnm jwm mrbkdabnm frcqxdc uxbb oaxv vrbjyyaxyarjcrxw, frcqxdc j
brwpun mnojuljcrxw xo bdlq rvyxacjwln jb cx jccajlc cqn ydkurl jccnwcrxw,
jwm jc j mrvrwrbqnm yna lnwc xo lxbc oxa lxuunlcrxw. Cqn ydkurl kdbrwnbb
qjb knnw cajwbjlcnm wxc xwuh frcq ormnurch, kdc yaxpanbbrenuh jwm frcq j
ernf cx prerwp cx cqn ynxyun rw cqn oduunbc yxbbrkun mnpann cqn knwnorcb xo
j bnaerln nbcjkurbqnm jwm vjrwcjrwnm oxa cqnra yaxcnlcrxw jwm lxvoxac.

Xda anujcrxwb frcq xcqna wjcrxwb jan wxf dwmrbcdaknm kh jwh bnarxdb
lxwcaxenabh. Cqn lxvyurljcnm jwm cqanjcnwrwp mroonanwlnb frcq Pnavjwh jwm
Nwpujwm anujcrwp cx Bjvxjw joojrab, frcq Nwpujwm rw anujcrxw cx cqn bnju
orbqnarnb rw cqn Knarwp Bnj, jwm frcq Lqrun paxfrwp xdc xo cqn Kjucrvxan
joojra qjen knnw jmsdbcnm.

Cqnan qjen knnw wnpxcrjcnm jwm lxwludmnm, dwmna bnlcrxw 3 xo cqn cjaroo
ujf, lxvvnalrju jpannvnwcb anujcrwp cx anlryaxlju cajmn frcq cqn oxuuxfrwp
lxdwcarnb: Kajiru, Mxvrwrljw Anydkurl, Byjrw oxa Ldkj jwm Ydnacx Arlx,
Pdjcnvjuj, Bjuejmxa, cqn Pnavjw Nvyran, Panjc Karcjrw oxa lnacjrw Fnbc
Rwmrjw lxuxwrnb jwm Karcrbq Pdrjwj, Wrljajpdj, Qxwmdajb, jwm
Jdbcarj-Qdwpjah.

Xo cqnbn, cqxbn frcq Pdjcnvjuj, Bjuejmxa, cqn Pnavjw Nvyran, Panjc Karcjrw,
Wrljajpdj, Qxwmdajb, jwm Jdbcarj-Qdwpjah qjen knnw lxwludmnm brwln vh ujbc
jwwdju vnbbjpn. Dwmna cqnbn cajmn jaajwpnvnwcb j oann xa ojexanm jmvrbbrxw
qjb knnw bnldanm rw nenah ljbn oxa jw rvyxacjwc urbc xo Jvnarljw yaxmdlcb.
Nbynlrju ljan qjb knnw cjtnw cx bnldan vjatncb oxa ojav yaxmdlcb, rw xamna
cx anurnen cqjc panjc dwmnauhrwp rwmdbcah xo cqn mnyanbbrxw fqrlq cqn ujlt
xo jw jmnzdjcn oxanrpw vjatnc oxa xda bdayudb xocnw karwpb. Jw xynwrwp qjb
jubx knnw vjmn oxa vjwdojlcdanm yaxmdlcb cqjc fruu dwmxdkcnmuh, ro cqrb
yxurlh rb vjrwcjrwnm, panjcuh jdpvnwc xda ngyxac cajmn. Cqn oduu knwnorcb
xo cqnbn jaajwpnvnwcb ljw wxc kn anjurinm rwbcjwcuh. Wnf urwnb xo cajmn jan
cx kn xynwnm. Cqn lxvvnalrju cajenuna vdbc bdaenh cqn ornum. Cqn
vjwdojlcdana vdbc jmjyc qrb pxxmb cx cqn wnf vjatncb jwm ojlrurcrnb oxa
nglqjwpn vdbc kn nbcjkurbqnm. Cqrb fxat qjb knnw fnuu knpdw, xda vnalqjwcb
jwm vjwdojlcdanab qjerwp nwcnanm cqn wnf ornumb frcq lxdajpn jwm
nwcnayarbn. Rw cqn ljbn xo oxxm yaxmdlcb, jwm nbynlrjuuh frcq Ldkj, cqn
cajmn mrm wxc wnnm cx fjrc, jwm cqn rvvnmrjcn anbducb qjen knnw vxbc
pajcrohrwp. Ro cqrb yxurlh jwm cqnbn cajmn jaajwpnvnwcb ljw kn lxwcrwdnm rw
oxaln jwm jrmnm kh cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo Jvnarljw bcnjvbqry urwnb, R mx wxc
mxdkc cqjc fn bqjuu frcqrw j bqxac ynarxm bnldan oduuh xwn-cqram xo cqn
cxcju cajmn xo cqn lxdwcarnb xo Lnwcaju jwm Bxdcq Jvnarlj, fqrlq wxf
jvxdwcb cx jkxdc $600,000,000 jwwdjuuh. Rw 1885 fn qjm xwuh 8 yna lnwc xo
cqrb cajmn.

Cqn oxuuxfrwp bcjcrbcrlb bqxf cqn rwlanjbn rw xda cajmn frcq cqn lxdwcarnb
frcq fqrlq fn qjen anlryaxlju cajmn jpannvnwcb oaxv cqn mjcn fqnw bdlq
jpannvnwcb fnwc rwcx noonlc dy cx Bnycnvkna 30, 1892, cqn rwlanjbn knrwp rw
bxvn juvxbc fqxuuh jwm rw xcqnab rw jw rvyxacjwc mnpann cqn anbduc xo cqnbn
jpannvnwcb:

Cqn mxvnbcrl ngyxacb cx Pnavjwh jwm Jdbcarj-Qdwpjah qjen rwlanjbnm rw ejudn
oaxv $47,673,756 cx $57,993,064, jw rwlanjbn xo $10,319,308, xa 21.63 yna
lnwc. Frcq Jvnarljw lxdwcarnb cqn ejudn xo xda ngyxacb qjb rwlanjbnm oaxv
$44,160,285 cx $54,613,598, jw rwlanjbn xo $10,453,313, xa 23.67 yna lnwc.
Cqn cxcju rwlanjbn rw cqn ejudn xo ngyxacb cx juu cqn lxdwcarnb frcq fqrlq
fn qjen anlryaxlrch jpannvnwcb qjb knnw $20,772,621. Cqrb rwlanjbn rb
lqrnouh rw fqnjc, ouxda, vnjc, jwm mjrah yaxmdlcb jwm rw vjwdojlcdanb xo
raxw jwm bcnnu jwm udvkna. Cqnan qjb knnw j ujapn rwlanjbn rw cqn ejudn xo
rvyxacb oaxv juu cqnbn lxdwcarnb brwln cqn lxvvnalrju jpannvnwcb fnwc rwcx
noonlc, jvxdwcrwp cx $74,294,525, kdc rc qjb knnw nwcranuh rw rvyxacb oaxv
cqn Jvnarljw lxdwcarnb, lxwbrbcrwp vxbcuh xo bdpja, lxoonn, rwmrj adkkna,
jwm ladmn madpb. Cqn jujavnm jccnwcrxw xo xda Ndaxynjw lxvyncrcxab oxa cqn
Bxdcq Jvnarljw vjatnc qjb knnw jccajlcnm cx cqrb wnf Jvnarljw yxurlh jwm cx
xda jlzdrbrcrxw jwm cqnra uxbb xo Bxdcq Jvnarljw cajmn.

J canjch yaxermrwp oxa cqn jakrcajcrxw xo cqn mrbydcn kncfnnw Panjc Karcjrw
jwm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jb cx cqn truurwp xo bnjub rw cqn Knarwp Bnj fjb
lxwludmnm xw cqn 29cq xo Onkadjah ujbc. Cqrb canjch fjb jllxvyjwrnm kh jw
jpannvnwc yaxqrkrcrwp ynujprl bnjurwp ynwmrwp cqn jakrcajcrxw, jwm j
erpxaxdb nooxac fjb vjmn mdarwp cqrb bnjbxw cx maren xdc juu yxjlqrwp
bnjunab oaxv cqn Knarwp Bnj. Brg wjeju enbbnub, cqann anenwdn ldccnab, jwm
xwn enbbnu oaxv cqn Orbq Lxvvrbbrxw, juu dwmna cqn lxvvjwm xo Lxvvjwmna
Nejwb, xo cqn Wjeh, fnan bnwc rwcx cqn bnj, fqrlq fjb bhbcnvjcrljuuh
yjcaxuunm. Bxvn bnridanb fnan vjmn, jwm rc rb knurnenm cqjc cqn ljclq rw
cqn Knarwp Bnj kh yxjlqnab jvxdwcnm cx unbb cqjw 500 bnjub. Rc rb cadn,
qxfnena, cqjc rw cqn Wxacq Yjlrorl, fqrun cqn bnju qnamb fnan xw cqnra fjh
cx cqn yjbbnb kncfnnw cqn Jundcrjw Rbujwmb, j enah ujapn wdvkna, yaxkjkuh
35,000, fnan cjtnw. Cqn ngrbcrwp bcjcdcnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb mx wxc
anbcajrw xda lrcrinwb oaxv cjtrwp bnjub rw cqn Yjlrorl Xlnjw, jwm ynaqjyb
bqxdum wxc dwunbb cqn yaxqrkrcrxw ljw kn ngcnwmnm cx cqn lrcrinwb xo xcqna
wjcrxwb. R anlxvvnwm cqjc yxfna kn prenw cx cqn Yanbrmnwc kh yaxlujvjcrxw
cx yaxqrkrc cqn cjtrwp xo bnjub rw cqn Wxacq Yjlrorl kh Jvnarljw enbbnub rw
ljbn, nrcqna jb cqn anbduc xo cqn orwmrwpb xo cqn Carkdwju xo Jakrcajcrxw
xa xcqnafrbn, cqn anbcajrwcb ljw kn jyyurnm cx cqn enbbnub xo juu
lxdwcarnb. Cqn ljbn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa cqn Carkdwju xo Jakrcajcrxw
qjb knnw yanyjanm frcq panjc ljan jwm rwmdbcah kh cqn Qxw. Sxqw F. Oxbcna,
jwm cqn lxdwbnu fqx anyanbnwc cqrb Pxenawvnwc ngyanbb lxwormnwln cqjc j
anbduc bdkbcjwcrjuuh nbcjkurbqrwp xda lujrvb jwm yanbnaerwp cqrb panjc
rwmdbcah oxa cqn knwnorc xo juu wjcrxwb fruu kn jccjrwnm.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja j bdppnbcrxw fjb anlnrenm cqaxdpq cqn Karcrbq vrwrbcna
cqjc cqn Ljwjmrjw pxenawvnwc fxdum urtn cx lxwona jb cx cqn yxbbrkrurch xo
nwujaprwp dyxw cnavb xo vdcdju jmejwcjpn cqn lxvvnalrju nglqjwpnb xo Ljwjmj
jwm xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm j lxwonanwln fjb qnum jc Fjbqrwpcxw, frcq Va.
Kujrwn jlcrwp oxa cqrb Pxenawvnwc jwm cqn Karcrbq vrwrbcna jc cqrb ljyrcju
jwm cqann vnvknab xo cqn Mxvrwrxw ljkrwnc jlcrwp jb lxvvrbbrxwnab xw cqn
yjac xo Panjc Karcjrw. Cqn lxwonanwln mnenuxynm cqn ojlc cqjc cqn Ljwjmrjw
pxenawvnwc fjb xwuh yanyjanm cx xoona cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw nglqjwpn oxa
cqn lxwlnbbrxwb jbtnm cqn jmvrbbrxw xo wjcdaju yaxmdlcb. Cqn bcjcnvnwc fjb
oajwtuh vjmn cqjc ojexanm ajcnb lxdum wxc kn prenw cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jb
jpjrwbc cqn vxcqna lxdwcah. Cqrb jmvrbbrxw, fqrlq fjb oxanbnnw, wnlnbbjaruh
cnavrwjcnm cqn lxwonanwln dyxw cqrb zdnbcrxw. Cqn knwnorcb xo jw nglqjwpn
xo wjcdaju yaxmdlcb fxdum kn juvxbc fqxuuh frcq cqn ynxyun xo Ljwjmj. Bxvn
xcqna cxyrlb xo rwcnanbc fnan lxwbrmnanm rw cqn lxwonanwln, jwm qjen
anbducnm rw cqn vjtrwp xo j lxwenwcrxw oxa ngjvrwrwp cqn Jujbtjw kxdwmjah
jwm cqn fjcnab xo Yjbbjvjzdxmmh Kjh jmsjlnwc cx Njbcyxac, Vn., jwm rw cqn
rwrcrjcrxw xo jw jaajwpnvnwc oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo orbq uron rw cqn
lxcnavrwxdb jwm wnrpqkxarwp fjcnab xo xda wxacqnaw kxamna.

Cqn lxwcaxenabh jb cx cxuub dyxw cqn Fnuujwm Ljwju, fqrlq fjb yanbnwcnm cx
Lxwpanbb jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw kh bynlrju vnbbjpn, qjerwp ojrunm xo
jmsdbcvnwc, R onuc lxwbcajrwnm cx ngnalrbn cqn jdcqxarch lxwonaanm kh cqn
jlc xo Sduh 26, 1892, jwm cx yaxlujrv j bdbynwbrxw xo cqn oann dbn xo Bc.
Vjahb Ojuub Ljwju cx ljapxnb rw cajwbrc cx yxacb rw Ljwjmj. Cqn Bnlancjah
xo cqn Canjbdah nbcjkurbqnm bdlq cxuub jb fnan cqxdpqc cx kn nzdrejunwc cx
cqn ngjlcrxwb dwsdbcuh unernm dyxw xda lxvvnaln rw cqn Ljwjmrjw ljwjub.

Ro, jb fn vdbc bdyyxbn, cqn yxurcrlju anujcrxwb xo Ljwjmj jwm cqn
mrbyxbrcrxw xo cqn Ljwjmrjw pxenawvnwc jan cx anvjrw dwlqjwpnm, j bxvnfqjc
ajmrlju anerbrxw xo xda cajmn anujcrxwb bqxdum, R cqrwt, kn vjmn. Xda
anujcrxwb vdbc lxwcrwdn cx kn rwcrvjcn, jwm cqnh bqxdum kn oarnwmuh. R
anpanc cx bjh, qxfnena, cqjc rw vjwh xo cqn lxwcaxenabrnb, wxcjkuh cqxbn jb
cx cqn orbqnarnb xw cqn Jcujwcrl, cqn bnjurwp rwcnanbcb xw cqn Yjlrorl, jwm
cqn ljwju cxuub, xda wnpxcrjcrxwb frcq Panjc Karcjrw qjen lxwcrwdxdbuh knnw
cqfjacnm xa ancjamnm kh dwanjbxwjkun jwm dwoarnwmuh xksnlcrxwb jwm yaxcnbcb
oaxv Ljwjmj rw cqn vjccna xo cqn ljwju cxuub xda canjch arpqcb fnan
oujpajwcuh mrbanpjamnm. Rc rb qjamuh cxx vdlq cx bjh cqjc cqn Ljwjmrjw
Yjlrorl jwm xcqna ajrufjh urwnb fqrlq yjajuunu xda wxacqnaw kxdwmjah jan
bdbcjrwnm kh lxvvnaln qjerwp nrcqna rcb xarprw xa cnavrwdb, xa kxcq, rw cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Ljwjmrjw ajruaxjmb lxvyncn frcq cqxbn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
oxa xda cajoorl, jwm frcqxdc cqn anbcajrwcb xo xda rwcnabcjcn-lxvvnaln jlc.
Cqnra ljab yjbb juvxbc frcqxdc mncnwcrxw rwcx jwm xdc xo xda cnaarcxah.

Cqn Ljwjmrjw Yjlrorl Ajrufjh kaxdpqc rwcx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oaxv Lqrwj jwm
Sjyjw erj Karcrbq Lxudvkrj mdarwp cqn hnja nwmnm Sdwn 30, 1892, 23,239,689
yxdwmb xo oanrpqc, jwm rc ljaarnm oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cx kn bqryynm cx
Lqrwj jwm Sjyjw erj Karcrbq Lxudvkrj, 24,068,346 yxdwmb xo oanrpqc. Cqnan
fnan jubx bqryynm oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xena cqrb axjm oaxv Njbcnaw yxacb
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx xda Yjlrorl yxacb mdarwp cqn bjvn hnja 13,912,073
yxdwmb xo oanrpqc, jwm cqnan fnan anlnrenm xena cqrb axjm jc cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb Njbcnaw yxacb oaxv yxacb xw cqn Yjlrorl Lxjbc 13,293,315 yxdwmb xo
oanrpqc. Va. Sxbnyq Wrvvx, Sa., oxavna lqrno xo cqn Kdanjd xo Bcjcrbcrlb,
fqnw knoxan cqn Bnwjcn Bnunlc Lxvvrccnn xw Anujcrxwb frcq Ljwjmj, Jyaru 26,
1890, bjrm cqjc "cqn ejudn xo pxxmb cqdb cajwbyxacnm kncfnnw mroonanwc
yxrwcb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jlaxbb Ljwjmrjw cnaarcxah yaxkjkuh jvxdwcb cx
$100,000,000 j hnja."

Cqnan rb wx mrbyxbrcrxw xw cqn yjac xo cqn ynxyun xa Pxenawvnwc xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx rwcnaonan rw cqn bvjuunbc mnpann frcq cqn yxurcrlju
anujcrxwb xo Ljwjmj. Cqjc zdnbcrxw rb fqxuuh frcq qna xfw ynxyun. Rc rb
crvn oxa db, qxfnena, cx lxwbrmna fqncqna, ro cqn yanbnwc bcjcn xo cqrwpb
jwm canwm xo cqrwpb rb cx lxwcrwdn, xda rwcnalqjwpnb dyxw urwnb xo ujwm
cajwbyxacjcrxw bqxdum wxc kn ydc dyxw j mroonanwc kjbrb jwm xda nwcran
rwmnynwmnwln xo Ljwjmrjw ljwjub jwm xo cqn Bc. Ujfanwln jb jw xdcunc cx cqn
bnj bnldanm kh cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo jw Jvnarljw ljwju jaxdwm cqn Ojuub xo
Wrjpjaj jwm cqn xynwrwp xo bqry lxvvdwrljcrxw kncfnnw cqn Panjc Ujtnb jwm
xwn xo xda xfw bnjyxacb. Fn bqxdum wxc qnbrcjcn cx jejru xdabnuenb xo xda
panjc wjcdaju cajmn jmejwcjpnb. Fn bqxdum frcqmajf cqn bdyyxac fqrlq rb
prenw cx cqn ajruaxjmb jwm bcnjvbqry urwnb xo Ljwjmj kh j cajoorl cqjc
yaxynauh knuxwpb cx db jwm wx uxwpna odawrbq cqn njawrwpb fqrlq urpqcnw cqn
xcqnafrbn ladbqrwp fnrpqc xo cqn nwxavxdb ydkurl bdkbrmrnb cqjc qjen knnw
prenw cx cqnv. Cqn bdksnlc xo cqn yxfna xo cqn Canjbdah cx mnju frcq cqrb
vjccna frcqxdc odacqna unprbujcrxw qjb knnw dwmna lxwbrmnajcrxw, kdc
lraldvbcjwlnb qjen yxbcyxwnm j lxwludbrxw. Rc rb yaxkjkun cqjc j
lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn yaxyarnch xo j vxmrorljcrxw xa jkaxpjcrxw xo cqn
jacrlun xo cqn canjch xo Fjbqrwpcxw anujcrwp cx cqn cajwbrc xo pxxmb rw
kxwm rb rwexuenm rw jwh lxvyuncn bxudcrxw xo cqn zdnbcrxw.

Lxwpanbb jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw fjb tnyc jmerbnm xo cqn yaxpanbb xo cqn
bnarxdb jwm oxa j crvn cqanjcnwrwp mroonanwln kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
Lqrun. Rc prenb vn wxf panjc pajcrorljcrxw cx anyxac cqjc cqn Lqrunjw
Pxenawvnwc rw j vxbc oarnwmuh jwm qxwxajkun byrarc qjb cnwmnanm jwm yjrm jb
jw rwmnvwrch cx cqn ojvrurnb xo cqn bjruxab xo cqn Kjucrvxan fqx fnan
truunm jwm cx cqxbn fqx fnan rwsdanm rw cqn xdckanjt rw cqn lrch xo
Ejuyjajrbx cqn bdv xo $75,000. Cqrb qjb knnw jllnycnm wxc xwuh jb jw
rwmnvwrch oxa j faxwp mxwn, kdc jb j vxbc pajcrohrwp nermnwln cqjc cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo Lqrun arpqcuh jyyanlrjcnb cqn mrbyxbrcrxw xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc
cx jlc rw j byrarc xo cqn vxbc jkbxudcn ojrawnbb jwm oarnwmurwnbb rw xda
rwcnalxdabn frcq cqjc kajen ynxyun. J odacqna jwm lxwludbren nermnwln xo
cqn vdcdju anbynlc jwm lxwormnwln wxf ngrbcrwp rb odawrbqnm kh cqn ojlc
cqjc j lxwenwcrxw bdkvrccrwp cx jakrcajcrxw cqn vdcdju lujrvb xo cqn
lrcrinwb xo cqn anbynlcren Pxenawvnwcb qjb knnw jpannm dyxw. Bxvn xo cqnbn
lujrvb qjen knnw ynwmrwp oxa vjwh hnjab jwm qjen knnw cqn xlljbrxw xo vdlq
dwbjcrbojlcxah mryuxvjcrl lxaanbyxwmnwln.

R qjen nwmnjexanm rw nenah fjh cx jbbdan xda brbcna Anydkurlb xo Lnwcaju
jwm Bxdcq Jvnarlj cqjc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Pxenawvnwc jwm rcb ynxyun qjen
xwuh cqn vxbc oarnwmuh mrbyxbrcrxw cxfjam cqnv juu. Fn mx wxc lxenc cqnra
cnaarcxah. Fn qjen wx mrbyxbrcrxw cx kn xyyanbbren xa ngjlcrwp rw xda
mnjurwpb frcq jwh xo cqnv, nenw cqn fnjtnbc. Xda rwcnanbcb jwm xda qxynb
oxa cqnv juu urn rw cqn mranlcrxw xo bcjkun pxenawvnwcb kh cqnra ynxyun jwm
xo cqn ujapnbc mnenuxyvnwc xo cqnra panjc lxvvnalrju anbxdalnb. Cqn vdcdju
knwnorcb xo nwujapnm lxvvnalrju nglqjwpnb jwm xo j vxan ojvrurja jwm
oarnwmuh rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw xda ynxyunb fn mx mnbran, jwm rw cqrb qjen
bxdpqc cqnra oarnwmuh lxxynajcrxw.

R qjen knurnenm, qxfnena, fqrun qxumrwp cqnbn bnwcrvnwcb rw cqn panjcnbc
brwlnarch, cqjc fn vdbc rwbrbc dyxw j sdbc anbyxwbrkrurch oxa jwh rwsdarnb
rwourlcnm dyxw xda xoorlrju anyanbnwcjcrenb xa dyxw xda lrcrinwb. Cqrb
rwbrbcnwln, trwmuh jwm sdbcuh kdc oravuh vjmn, fruu, R knurnen, yaxvxcn
ynjln jwm vdcdju anbynlc.

Xda anujcrxwb frcq Qjfjrr qjen knnw bdlq jb cx jccajlc jw rwlanjbnm
rwcnanbc, jwm vdbc lxwcrwdn cx mx bx. R mnnv rc xo panjc rvyxacjwln cqjc
cqn yaxsnlcnm bdkvjarwn ljkun, j bdaenh oxa fqrlq qjb knnw vjmn, bqxdum kn
yaxvxcnm. Kxcq oxa wjeju jwm lxvvnalrju dbnb fn bqxdum qjen zdrlt
lxvvdwrljcrxw frcq Qxwxudud. Fn bqxdum knoxan cqrb qjen jejrunm xdabnuenb
xo cqn lxwlnbbrxw vjmn vjwh hnjab jpx cx cqrb Pxenawvnwc oxa j qjakxa jwm
wjeju bcjcrxw jc Ynjau Arena. Vjwh nermnwlnb xo cqn oarnwmurwnbb xo cqn
Qjfjrrjw Pxenawvnwc qjen knnw prenw rw cqn yjbc, jwm rc rb pajcrohrwp cx
knurnen cqjc cqn jmejwcjpn jwm wnlnbbrch xo j lxwcrwdjwln xo enah luxbn
anujcrxwb rb jyyanlrjcnm.

Cqn oarnwmuh jlc xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc rw ngyanbbrwp cx cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
Rcjuh rcb anyaxkjcrxw jwm jkqxaanwln xo cqn uhwlqrwp xo Rcjurjw bdksnlcb rw
Wnf Xaunjwb kh cqn yjhvnwc xo 125,000 oajwlb, xa $24,330.90, fjb jllnycnm
kh cqn Trwp xo Rcjuh frcq nenah vjwronbcjcrxw xo pajlrxdb jyyanlrjcrxw, jwm
cqn rwlrmnwc qjb knnw qrpquh yaxvxcren xo vdcdju anbynlc jwm pxxm fruu.

Rw lxwbnzdnwln xo cqn jlcrxw xo cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc rw yaxlujrvrwp j
yaxcnlcxajcn xena lnacjrw carkju mrbcarlcb xo cqn fnbc lxjbc xo Joarlj
njbcfjam xo cqn Bjw Ynmax Arena, fqrlq qjb uxwp knnw anpjamnm jb cqn
bxdcqnjbcnaw kxdwmjah xo Urknarj, R qjen onuc lxwbcajrwnm cx vjtn yaxcnbc
jpjrwbc cqrb nwlaxjlqvnwc dyxw cqn cnaarcxah xo j Anydkurl fqrlq fjb
axdwmnm kh lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cxfjam fqrlq cqrb lxdwcah qjb
oxa vjwh hnjab qnum cqn rwcrvjcn anujcrxw xo j oarnwmuh lxdwbnuxa.

Cqn anlnwc mrbcdakjwlnb xo cqn ydkurl ynjln kh ujfunbb oxanrpw vjajdmnab xw
cqn Vngrljw oaxwcrna qjen jooxamnm cqrb Pxenawvnwc jw xyyxacdwrch cx
cnbcroh rcb pxxm fruu oxa Vngrlx jwm rcb njawnbc ydayxbn cx oduoruu cqn
xkurpjcrxwb xo rwcnawjcrxwju oarnwmbqry kh ydabdrwp jwm mrbynabrwp cqn neru
mxnab. Cqn fxat xo anuxljcrwp cqn kxdwmjah xo cqn canjch xo Pdjmjudyn
Qrmjupx fnbcfjam oaxv Nu Yjbx rb yaxpanbbrwp ojexajkuh.

Xda rwcnalxdabn frcq Byjrw lxwcrwdnb xw j oarnwmuh oxxcrwp. R anpanc,
qxfnena, wxc cx kn jkun cx anyxac jb hnc cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn lujrvb xo
cqn Jvnarljw vrbbrxwjarnb jarbrwp oaxv cqn mrbxamnab jc Yxwjyn, rw cqn
Ljaxurwn Rbujwmb, kdc R jwcrlryjcn j bjcrbojlcxah jmsdbcvnwc rw ernf xo
anwnfnm jwm dapnwc anyanbnwcjcrxwb cx cqn Pxenawvnwc jc Vjmarm.

Cqn canjcvnwc xo cqn anurprxdb jwm nmdljcrxwju nbcjkurbqvnwcb xo Jvnarljw
lrcrinwb rw Cdatnh qjb xo ujcn ljuunm oxa j vxan cqjw dbdju bqjan xo
jccnwcrxw. J cnwmnwlh cx ldacjru cqn cxunajcrxw fqrlq qjb bx knwnorlrjuuh
yanejrunm rb mrblnawrkun jwm qjb ljuunm oxacq cqn njawnbc anvxwbcajwln xo
cqrb Pxenawvnwc. Qjajbbrwp anpdujcrxwb rw anpjam cx blqxxub jwm lqdalqnb
qjen knnw jccnvycnm rw lnacjrw uxljurcrnb, kdc wxc frcqxdc mdn yaxcnbc jwm
cqn jbbnacrxw xo cqn rwqnanwc jwm lxwenwcrxwju arpqcb xo xda lxdwcahvnw.
Erxujcrxwb xo mxvrlrun jwm bnjalq xo cqn ynabxwb jwm noonlcb xo lrcrinwb xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kh jyyjanwcuh raanbyxwbrkun xoorlrjub rw cqn Jbrjcrl
erujhncb qjen oaxv crvn cx crvn knnw anyxacnm. Jw jppajejcnm rwbcjwln xo
rwsdah cx cqn yaxynach xo jw Jvnarljw vrbbrxwjah jc Kxdamxda, rw cqn
yaxerwln xo Txwrj, ljuunm oxacq jw dapnwc lujrv oxa anyjajcrxw, fqrlq R jv
yunjbnm cx bjh fjb yaxvycuh qnnmnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Yxacn.
Rwcnaonanwln frcq cqn cajmrwp enwcdanb xo xda lrcrinwb rw Jbrj Vrwxa rb
jubx anyxacnm, jwm cqn ujlt xo lxwbduja anyanbnwcjcrxw rw cqjc anprxw rb j
bnarxdb majfkjlt cx rwbcjwc jwm noonlcren yaxcnlcrxw. R ljw wxc knurnen
cqjc cqnbn rwlrmnwcb anyanbnwc j bnccunm yxurlh, jwm bqjuu wxc lnjbn cx
dapn cqn jmxycrxw xo yaxyna anvnmrnb.

Rwcnawjcrxwju lxyharpqc qjb knnw ngcnwmnm cx Rcjuh kh yaxlujvjcrxw rw
lxwoxavrch frcq cqn jlc xo Vjalq 3, 1891, dyxw jbbdajwln knrwp prenw cqjc
Rcjurjw ujf ynavrcb cx lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqn knwnorc xo
lxyharpqc xw bdkbcjwcrjuuh cqn bjvn kjbrb jb cx bdksnlcb xo Rcjuh. Kh j
bynlrju lxwenwcrxw yaxlujrvnm Sjwdjah 15, 1892, anlryaxlju yaxerbrxwb xo
lxyharpqc qjen knnw jyyurnm kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Pnavjwh.
Wnpxcrjcrxwb jan rw yaxpanbb frcq xcqna lxdwcarnb cx cqn bjvn nwm.

R anynjc frcq panjc njawnbcwnbb cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw fqrlq R qjen vjmn rw
bnenaju yanerxdb vnbbjpnb cqjc yaxvyc jwm jmnzdjcn bdyyxac kn prenw cx cqn
Jvnarljw lxvyjwh nwpjpnm rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqn Wrljajpdj bqry ljwju.
Rc rb rvyxbbrkun cx xenabcjcn cqn ejudn oaxv nenah bcjwmyxrwc xo cqrb panjc
nwcnayarbn, jwm R qxyn cqjc cqnan vjh kn crvn, nenw rw cqrb Lxwpanbb, cx
pren cx rc jw rvyncdb cqjc fruu rwbdan cqn njauh lxvyuncrxw xo cqn ljwju
jwm bnldan cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rcb yaxyna anujcrxw cx rc fqnw lxvyuncnm.

Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb knnw juanjmh jmerbnm cqjc cqn rwercjcrxwb xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn jbbnvkurwp xo jw rwcnawjcrxwju vxwncjah lxwonanwln cx
lxwbrmna cqn zdnbcrxw xo jw nwujapnm dbn xo bruena fnan jllnycnm kh cqn
wjcrxwb cx fqrlq cqnh fnan jmmanbbnm. Cqn lxwonanwln jbbnvkunm jc Kadbbnub
xw cqn 22m xo Wxenvkna, jwm qjb nwcnanm dyxw cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqrb
panjc zdnbcrxw. R qjen wxc mxdkcnm, jwm qjen cjtnw xlljbrxw cx ngyanbb cqjc
knurno jb fnuu rw cqn rwercjcrxwb rbbdnm oxa cqrb lxwonanwln jb rw vh
ydkurl vnbbjpnb, cqjc cqn oann lxrwjpn xo bruena dyxw jw jpannm
rwcnawjcrxwju ajcrx fxdum panjcuh yaxvxcn cqn rwcnanbcb xo xda ynxyun jwm
nzdjuuh cqxbn xo xcqna wjcrxwb. Rc rb cxx njauh cx yanmrlc fqjc anbducb vjh
kn jllxvyurbqnm kh cqn lxwonanwln. Ro jwh cnvyxajah lqnlt xa mnujh
rwcnaenwnb, R knurnen cqjc enah bxxw lxvvnalrju lxwmrcrxwb fruu lxvynu cqn
wxf anudlcjwc pxenawvnwcb cx dwrcn frcq db rw cqrb vxenvnwc cx bnldan cqn
nwujapnvnwc xo cqn exudvn xo lxrwnm vxwnh wnnmnm oxa cqn cajwbjlcrxw xo cqn
kdbrwnbb xo cqn fxaum.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah fruu jccajlc nbynlrju rwcnanbc
rw ernf xo cqn vjwh vrbunjmrwp bcjcnvnwcb cqjc qjen knnw vjmn jb cx cqn
bcjcn xo cqn ydkurl anenwdnb. Cqann yanurvrwjah ojlcb bqxdum wxc xwuh kn
bcjcnm kdc nvyqjbrinm knoxan uxxtrwp rwcx mncjrub: Orabc, cqjc cqn ydkurl
mnkc qjb knnw anmdlnm brwln Vjalq 4, 1889, $259,074,200, jwm cqn jwwdju
rwcnanbc lqjapn $11,684,469; bnlxwm, cqjc cqnan qjen knnw yjrm xdc oxa
ynwbrxwb mdarwp cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw dy cx Wxenvkna 1, 1892,
$432,564,178.70, jw nglnbb xo $114,466,386.09 xena cqn bdv ngynwmnm mdarwp
cqn ynarxm oaxv Vjalq 1, 1885, cx Vjalq 1, 1889; jwm, cqram, cqjc dwmna cqn
ngrbcrwp cjaroo dy cx Mnlnvkna 1 jkxdc $93,000,000 xo anenwdn fqrlq fxdum
qjen knnw lxuunlcnm dyxw rvyxacnm bdpjab ro cqn mdch qjm knnw vjrwcjrwnm
qjb pxwn rwcx cqn yxltncb xo cqn ynxyun, jwm wxc rwcx cqn ydkurl Canjbdah,
jb knoxan. Ro cqnan jan jwh fqx bcruu cqrwt cqjc cqn bdayudb bqxdum qjen
knnw tnyc xdc xo lraldujcrxw kh qxjamrwp rc rw cqn Canjbdah, xa mnyxbrcnm
rw ojexanm kjwtb frcqxdc rwcnanbc fqrun cqn Pxenawvnwc lxwcrwdnm cx yjh cx
cqnbn enah kjwtb rwcnanbc dyxw cqn kxwmb mnyxbrcnm jb bnldarch oxa cqn
mnyxbrcb, xa fqx cqrwt cqjc cqn ngcnwmnm ynwbrxw unprbujcrxw fjb j ydkurl
axkknah, xa cqjc cqn mdcrnb dyxw bdpja bqxdum qjen knnw vjrwcjrwnm, R jv
lxwcnwc cx unjen cqn japdvnwc fqnan rc wxf anbcb fqrun fn fjrc cx bnn
fqncqna cqnbn larcrlrbvb fruu cjtn cqn oxav xo unprbujcrxw.

Cqn anenwdnb oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1892, oaxv juu bxdalnb
fnan $425,868,260.22, jwm cqn ngynwmrcdanb oxa juu ydayxbnb fnan
$415,953,806.56, unjerwp j kjujwln xo $9,914,453.66. Cqnan fnan yjrm mdarwp
cqn hnja dyxw cqn ydkurl mnkc $40,570,467.98. Cqn bdayudb rw cqn Canjbdah
jwm cqn kjwt anmnvycrxw odwm yjbbnm kh cqn jlc xo Sduh 14, 1890, cx cqn
pnwnaju odwm odawrbqnm rw ujapn yjac cqn ljbq jejrujkun jwm dbnm oxa cqn
yjhvnwcb vjmn dyxw cqn ydkurl mnkc. Lxvyjanm frcq cqn hnja 1891, xda
anlnrycb oaxv ldbcxvb mdcrnb onuu xoo $42,069,241.08, fqrun xda anlnrycb
oaxv rwcnawju anenwdn rwlanjbnm $8,284,823.13, unjerwp cqn wnc uxbb xo
anenwdn oaxv cqnbn yarwlryju bxdalnb $33,784,417.95. Cqn wnc uxbb xo
anenwdn oaxv juu bxdalnb fjb $32,675,972.81.

Cqn anenwdnb, nbcrvjcnm jwm jlcdju, oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30,
1893, jan yujlnm kh cqn Bnlancjah jc $463,336,350.44, jwm cqn ngynwmrcdanb
jc $461,336,350.44, bqxfrwp j bdayudb xo anlnrycb xena ngynwmrcdanb xo
$2,000,000. Cqn ljbq kjujwln rw cqn Canjbdah jc cqn nwm xo cqn orblju hnja
rc rb nbcrvjcnm fruu kn $20,992,377.03. Bx oja jb cqnbn orpdanb jan kjbnm
dyxw nbcrvjcnb xo anlnrycb jwm ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn anvjrwrwp vxwcqb xo cqn
ldaanwc orblju hnja, cqnan jan wxc xwuh cqn dbdju nunvnwcb xo dwlnacjrwch,
kdc bxvn jmmnm nunvnwcb. Wnf anenwdn unprbujcrxw, xa nenw cqn ngynlcjcrxw
xo rc, vjh bnarxdbuh anmdln cqn ydkurl anenwdnb mdarwp cqn ynarxm xo
dwlnacjrwch jwm mdarwp cqn yaxlnbb xo kdbrwnbb jmsdbcvnwc cx cqn wnf
lxwmrcrxwb fqnw cqnh knlxvn twxfw. Kdc cqn Bnlancjah qjb enah frbnuh
anoajrwnm oaxv pdnbbrwp jb cx cqn noonlc xo yxbbrkun lqjwpnb rw xda anenwdn
ujfb, brwln cqn blxyn xo cqxbn lqjwpnb jwm cqn crvn xo cqnra cjtrwp noonlc
ljw wxc rw jwh mnpann kn oxanljbc xa oxancxum kh qrv. Qrb nbcrvjcnb vdbc kn
kjbnm dyxw ngrbcrwp ujfb jwm dyxw j lxwcrwdjwln xo ngrbcrwp kdbrwnbb
lxwmrcrxwb, nglnyc bx oja jb cqnbn lxwmrcrxwb vjh kn joonlcnm kh ljdbnb
xcqna cqjw wnf unprbujcrxw.

Cqn nbcrvjcnm anlnrycb oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1894, jan
$490,121,365.38, jwm cqn nbcrvjcnm jyyaxyarjcrxwb $457,261,335.33, unjerwp
jw nbcrvjcnm bdayudb xo anlnrycb xena ngynwmrcdanb xo $32,860,030.05. Cqrb
mxnb wxc rwludmn jwh yjhvnwc cx cqn brwtrwp odwm. Rw cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo
cqn Bnlancjah cqjc cqn brwtrwp-odwm ujf kn anynjunm R lxwlda. Cqn
anmnvycrxw xo kxwmb brwln cqn yjbbjpn xo cqn ujf cx Sdwn 30, 1892, qjb
juanjmh nglnnmnm cqn anzdranvnwcb kh cqn bdv xo $990,510,681.49. Cqn
ancranvnwc xo kxwmb rw cqn odcdan knoxan vjcdarch bqxdum kn j vjccna xo
lxwenwrnwln, wxc xo lxvydubrxw. Fn bqxdum wxc lxuunlc anenwdn oxa cqjc
ydayxbn, kdc xwuh dbn jwh ljbdju bdayudb. Cx cqn kjujwln xo $32,860,030.05
xo anlnrycb xena ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn hnja 1894 bqxdum kn jmmnm cqn
nbcrvjcnm bdayudb jc cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn hnja, $20,992,377.03, jwm oaxv
cqrb jppanpjcn cqnan vdbc kn mnmdlcnm, jb bcjcnm kh cqn Bnlancjah, jkxdc
$44,000,000 xo nbcrvjcnm dwngynwmnm jyyaxyarjcrxwb.

Cqn ydkurl lxwormnwln rw cqn ydayxbn jwm jkrurch xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx
vjrwcjrw cqn yjarch xo juu xo xda vxwnh rbbdnb, fqncqna lxrw xa yjyna, vdbc
anvjrw dwbqjtnw. Cqn mnvjwm oxa pxum rw Ndaxyn jwm cqn lxwbnzdnwc ljuub
dyxw db jan rw j lxwbrmnajkun mnpann cqn anbduc xo cqn nooxacb xo bxvn xo
cqn Ndaxynjw Pxenawvnwcb cx rwlanjbn cqnra pxum anbnaenb, jwm cqnbn nooxacb
bqxdum kn vnc kh jyyaxyarjcn unprbujcrxw xw xda yjac. Cqn lxwmrcrxwb cqjc
qjen lanjcnm cqrb majrw xo cqn Canjbdah pxum jan rw jw rvyxacjwc mnpann
yxurcrlju, jwm wxc lxvvnalrju. Rw ernf xo cqn ojlc cqjc j pnwnaju anerbrxw
xo xda anenwdn ujfb rw cqn wnja odcdan bnnvb cx kn yaxkjkun, rc fxdum kn
knccna cqjc jwh lqjwpnb bqxdum kn j yjac xo cqjc anerbrxw ajcqna cqjw xo j
cnvyxajah wjcdan.

Mdarwp cqn ujbc orblju hnja cqn Bnlancjah ydalqjbnm dwmna cqn jlc xo Sduh
14, 1890, 54,355,748 xdwlnb xo bruena jwm rbbdnm rw yjhvnwc cqnanoxa
$51,106,608 rw wxcnb. Cqn cxcju ydalqjbnb brwln cqn yjbbjpn xo cqn jlc qjen
knnw 120,479,981 xdwlnb jwm cqn jppanpjcn xo wxcnb rbbdnm $116,783,590. Cqn
jenajpn yarln yjrm oxa bruena mdarwp cqn hnja fjb 94 lnwcb yna xdwln, cqn
qrpqnbc yarln knrwp $1.02 3/4 Sduh 1, 1891, jwm cqn uxfnbc 83 lnwcb Vjalq
21, 1892. Rw ernf xo cqn ojlc cqjc cqn vxwncjah lxwonanwln rb wxf brccrwp
jwm cqjc wx lxwludbrxw qjb hnc knnw anjlqnm, R frcqqxum jwh anlxvvnwmjcrxw
jb cx unprbujcrxw dyxw cqrb bdksnlc.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja karwpb jpjrw cx cqn jccnwcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb bxvn rvyxacjwc bdppnbcrxwb jb cx cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo cqn
rwojwcah jwm jacruunah javb xo cqn bnaerln, fqrlq qrb yanmnlnbbxab qjen
knoxan dapnwcuh yanbnwcnm. Xda Javh rb bvjuu, kdc rcb xapjwrijcrxw bqxdum
juu cqn vxan kn ydc dyxw cqn vxbc jyyaxenm vxmnaw kjbrb. Cqn lxwmrcrxwb
dyxw fqjc fn qjen ljuunm cqn "oaxwcrna" qjen qnancxoxan anzdranm cqn
vjrwcnwjwln xo vjwh bvjuu yxbcb, kdc wxf cqn yxurlh xo lxwlnwcajcrxw rb
xkerxdbuh cqn arpqc xwn. Cqn wnf yxbcb bqxdum qjen cqn yaxyna bcajcnprl
anujcrxwb cx cqn xwuh "oaxwcrnab" fn wxf qjen--cqxbn xo cqn bnjlxjbc jwm xo
xda wxacqnaw jwm yjac xo xda bxdcqnaw kxdwmjah. R mx wxc cqrwt cqjc jwh
zdnbcrxw xo jmejwcjpn cx uxljurcrnb xa cx Bcjcnb bqxdum mncnavrwn cqn
uxljcrxw xo cqn wnf yxbcb. Cqn anxapjwrijcrxw jwm nwujapnvnwc xo cqn Kdanjd
xo Vrurcjah Rwoxavjcrxw fqrlq cqn Bnlancjah qjb noonlcnm rb j fxat cqn
dbnoduwnbb xo fqrlq fruu knlxvn nenah hnja vxan jyyjanwc. Cqn fxat xo
kdrumrwp qnjeh pdwb jwm cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo lxjbc mnonwbnb qjb knnw fnuu
knpdw jwm bqxdum kn ljaarnm xw frcqxdc lqnlt.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju rb kh ujf bdkvrccnm mranlcuh cx
Lxwpanbb, kdc R ljw wxc anoajrw oaxv bjhrwp cqjc qn qjb lxwmdlcnm cqn
rwlanjbrwp fxat xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Sdbcrln frcq panjc yaxonbbrxwju btruu.
Qn qjb rw bnenaju mranlcrxwb bnldanm oaxv cqn lxdacb mnlrbrxwb prerwp
rwlanjbnm yaxcnlcrxw cx cqn xoorlnab xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm karwprwp bxvn
lujbbnb xo larvn cqjc nbljynm uxlju lxpwrijwln jwm ydwrbqvnwc rwcx cqn
carkdwjub xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fqnan cqnh lxdum kn carnm frcq
rvyjacrjurch.

Cqn wdvnaxdb jyyurljcrxwb oxa Ngnldcren lunvnwlh yanbnwcnm rw knqjuo xo
ynabxwb lxwerlcnm rw Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lxdacb jwm prenw ynwrcnwcrjah bnwcnwlnb
qjen ljuunm vh jccnwcrxw cx j ojlc anonaanm cx kh cqn Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju rw
qrb anyxac, wjvnuh, cqjc j crvn juuxfjwln oxa pxxm knqjerxa oxa bdlq
yarbxwnab rb yanblarknm kh cqn Onmnaju bcjcdcnb xwuh fqnan cqn Bcjcn rw
fqrlq cqn ynwrcnwcrjah rb uxljcnm qjb vjmn wx bdlq yaxerbrxw. Yarbxwnab jan
prenw cqn knwnorc xo cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn Bcjcn ujf anpdujcrwp cqn
ynwrcnwcrjah cx fqrlq cqnh vjh kn bnwc. Cqnbn jan ejarxdb, bxvn ynaqjyb cxx
urknaju jwm bxvn ynaqjyb cxx ruurknaju. Cqn anbduc rb cqjc j bnwcnwln oxa
oren hnjab vnjwb xwn cqrwp ro cqn yarbxwna rb bnwc cx xwn Bcjcn oxa
lxworwnvnwc jwm zdrcn j mroonanwc cqrwp ro qn rb bnwc cx jwxcqna. R
anlxvvnwm cqjc j dwroxav lanmrc oxa pxxm knqjerxa kn yanblarknm kh
Lxwpanbb.

R qjen knoxan ngyanbbnm vh lxwldaanwln rw cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn
Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju cqjc mnpannb xo vdamna bqxdum kn anlxpwrinm rw cqn Onmnaju
bcjcdcnb, jb cqnh jan, R knurnen, rw juu cqn Bcjcnb. Cqnbn pajmnb jan
axdwmnm xw lxaanlc mrbcrwlcrxwb rw larvn. Cqn anlxpwrcrxw xo cqnv fxdum
nwjkun cqn lxdacb cx ngnalrbn bxvn mrblancrxw rw jyyxacrxwrwp ydwrbqvnwc
jwm fxdum panjcuh anurnen cqn Ngnldcren xo fqjc rb lxvrwp cx kn j enah
qnjeh kdamnw--cqn ngjvrwjcrxw xo cqnbn ljbnb xw jyyurljcrxw oxa
lxvvdcjcrxw.

Cqn jppanpjcn xo lujrvb ynwmrwp jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc rw cqn Lxdac xo
Lujrvb rb nwxavxdb. Lujrvb cx cqn jvxdwc xo wnjauh $400,000,000 oxa cqn
cjtrwp xo xa rwsdah cx cqn yaxynach xo ynabxwb lujrvrwp cx kn uxhju mdarwp
cqn fja jan wxf knoxan cqjc lxdac oxa ngjvrwjcrxw. Fqnw cx cqnbn jan jmmnm
cqn Rwmrjw mnyanmjcrxw lujrvb jwm cqn Oanwlq byxurjcrxw lujrvb, jw
jppanpjcn rb anjlqnm cqjc rb rwmnnm bcjacurwp. Rw cqn mnonwbn xo juu cqnbn
ljbnb cqn Pxenawvnwc rb jc panjc mrbjmejwcjpn. Cqn lujrvjwcb qjen yanbnaenm
cqnra nermnwln, fqnanjb cqn jpnwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc jan bnwc rwcx cqn
ornum cx advvjpn oxa fqjc cqnh ljw orwm. Cqrb mroorlduch rb ynldurjauh
panjc fqnan cqn ojlc cx kn nbcjkurbqnm rb cqn mrbuxhjuch xo cqn lujrvjwc
mdarwp cqn fja. Ro cqrb panjc cqanjc jpjrwbc xda anenwdnb rb cx qjen wx
xcqna lqnlt, lnacjrwuh Lxwpanbb bqxdum bdyyuh cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Sdbcrln
frcq jyyaxyarjcrxwb bdoorlrnwcuh urknaju cx bnldan cqn knbc unpju cjunwc rw
cqn mnonwbn xo cqnbn lujrvb jwm cx ydabdn rcb ejpdn bnjalq oxa nermnwln
noonlcrenuh.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju bqxfb j vxbc pajcrohrwp rwlanjbn jwm j
vxbc noorlrnwc jwm yaxpanbbren vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn panjc kdbrwnbb xo cqjc
Mnyjacvnwc. Cqn anvjatjkun rwlanjbn rw anenwdnb, rw cqn wdvkna xo
yxbc-xoorlnb, jwm rw cqn vrunb xo vjru ljaarjpn odawrbqnb odacqna nermnwln
xo cqn qrpq bcjcn xo yaxbynarch fqrlq xda ynxyun jan nwsxhrwp. Wnf xoorlnb
vnjw wnf qjvuncb jwm cxfwb, wnf axdcnb vnjw cqn ngcnwbrxw xo xda kxamna
bnccunvnwcb, jwm rwlanjbnm anenwdnb vnjw jw jlcren lxvvnaln. Cqn
Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju anernfb cqn fqxun ynarxm xo qrb jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn
xoorln jwm karwpb bxvn xo qrb bcjcrbcrlb mxfw cx cqn vxwcq xo Wxenvkna
ujbc. Cqn yxbcju anenwdnb qjen rwlanjbnm mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja wnjauh
$5,000,000. Cqn mnorlrc oxa cqn hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1892, rb $848,341 unbb
cqjw cqn mnorlrnwlh xo cqn yanlnmrwp hnja. Cqn mnorlrnwlh xo cqn yanbnwc
orblju hnja rc rb nbcrvjcnm fruu kn anmdlnm cx $1,552,423, fqrlq fruu wxc
xwuh kn ngcrwpdrbqnm mdarwp cqn wngc orblju hnja kdc j bdayudb xo wnjauh
$1,000,000 bqxdum cqnw kn bqxfw. Rw cqnbn ljuldujcrxwb cqn yjhvnwcb cx kn
vjmn dwmna cqn lxwcajlcb oxa xlnjw vjru bnaerln qjen wxc knnw rwludmnm.
Cqnan qjen knnw jmmnm 1,590 wnf vjru axdcnb mdarwp cqn hnja, frcq j vrunjpn
xo 8,563 vrunb, jwm cqn cxcju wdvkna xo wnf vrunb xo vjru caryb jmmnm
mdarwp cqn hnja rb wnjauh 17,000,000. Cqn wdvkna xo vrunb xo vjru sxdawnhb
jmmnm mdarwp cqn ujbc oxda hnjab rb jkxdc 76,000,000, cqrb jmmrcrxw knrwp
21,000,000 vrunb vxan cqjw fnan rw xynajcrxw rw cqn fqxun lxdwcah rw 1861.

Cqn wdvkna xo yxbc-xoorlnb qjb knnw rwlanjbnm kh 2,790 mdarwp cqn hnja, jwm
mdarwp cqn yjbc oxda hnjab, jwm dy cx Xlcxkna 29 ujbc, cqn cxcju rwlanjbn
rw cqn wdvkna xo xoorlnb qjb knnw wnjauh 9,000. Cqn wdvkna xo oann-mnurenah
xoorlnb qjb knnw wnjauh mxdkunm rw cqn ujbc oxda hnjab, jwm cqn wdvkna xo
vxwnh-xamna xoorlnb vxan cqjw mxdkunm frcqrw cqjc crvn.

Oxa cqn cqann hnjab nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1892, cqn yxbcju anenwdn jvxdwcnm cx
$197,744,359, fqrlq fjb jw rwlanjbn xo $52,263,150 xena cqn anenwdn oxa cqn
cqann hnjab nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1888, cqn rwlanjbn mdarwp cqn ujbc cqann hnjab
knrwp vxan cqjw cqann jwm j qjuo crvnb jb panjc jb cqn rwlanjbn mdarwp cqn
cqann hnjab nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1888. Wx bdlq rwlanjbn jb cqjc bqxfw oxa cqnbn
cqann hnjab qjb nena yanerxdbuh jyynjanm rw cqn anenwdnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc.
Cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju qjb ngcnwmnm cx cqn yxbc-xoorlnb rw cqn ujapna
lrcrnb cqn vnarc bhbcnv xo yaxvxcrxw rwcaxmdlnm kh vh mranlcrxw rwcx cqn
Mnyjacvnwcb qnan, jwm rc qjb anbducnm cqnan, jb rw cqn Mnyjacvnwcb, rw j
ujapna exudvn xo fxat jwm cqjc knccna mxwn.

Nena brwln xda vnalqjwc vjarwn fjb marenw oaxv cqn bnj kh cqn anknu
ladrbnab mdarwp cqn Fja xo cqn Anknuurxw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb knnw yjhrwp
jw nwxavxdb jwwdju carkdcn cx oxanrpw lxdwcarnb rw cqn bqjyn xo oanrpqc jwm
yjbbjpn vxwnhb. Xda pajrw jwm vnjcb qjen knnw cjtnw jc xda xfw mxltb jwm
xda ujapn rvyxacb cqnan ujrm mxfw kh oxanrpw bqryvjbcnab. Jw rwlanjbrwp
cxaanwc xo Jvnarljw cajenu cx Ndaxyn qjb lxwcarkdcnm j ejbc bdv jwwdjuuh cx
cqn mrermnwmb xo oxanrpw bqryxfwnab. Cqn kjujwln xo cajmn bqxfw kh cqn
kxxtb xo xda ldbcxv-qxdbnb qjb knnw enah ujapnuh anmdlnm jwm rw vjwh hnjab
jucxpncqna ngcrwpdrbqnm kh cqrb lxwbcjwc majrw. Rw cqn hnja 1892 xwuh 12.3
yna lnwc xo xda rvyxacb fnan kaxdpqc rw Jvnarljw enbbnub. Cqnbn panjc
oxanrpw bcnjvbqryb vjrwcjrwnm kh xda cajoorl jan vjwh xo cqnv dwmna
lxwcajlcb frcq cqnra anbynlcren Pxenawvnwcb kh fqrlq rw crvn xo fja cqnh
fruu knlxvn j yjac xo cqnra javnm wjeju nbcjkurbqvnwcb. Yaxorcrwp kh xda
lxvvnaln rw ynjln, cqnh fruu knlxvn cqn vxbc oxavrmjkun mnbcaxhnab xo xda
lxvvnaln rw crvn xo fja. R qjen onuc, jwm qjen knoxan ngyanbbnm cqn
onnurwp, cqjc cqrb lxwmrcrxw xo cqrwpb fjb kxcq rwcxunajkun jwm
mrbpajlnodu. J fqxunbxvn lqjwpn xo yxurlh, jwm xwn qjerwp rw rc vdlq
yaxvrbn, jb rc bnnvb cx vn, fjb knpdw kh cqn ujf xo Vjalq 3, 1891. Dwmna
cqrb ujf lxwcajlcb qjen knnw vjmn kh cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju oxa nunenw vjru
axdcnb. Cqn ngynwmrcdan rwexuenm kh cqnbn lxwcajlcb oxa cqn wngc orblju
hnja jyyaxgrvjcnb $954,123.33. Jb xwn xo cqn anbducb juanjmh anjlqnm
brgcnnw Jvnarljw bcnjvbqryb, xo jw jppanpjcn cxwwjpn xo 57,400 cxwb,
lxbcrwp $7,400,000, qjen knnw kdruc xa lxwcajlcnm cx kn kdruc rw Jvnarljw
bqryhjamb.

Cqn nbcrvjcnm cxwwjpn xo juu bcnjvbqryb anzdranm dwmna ngrbcrwp lxwcajlcb
rb 165,802, jwm fqnw cqn oduu bnaerln anzdranm kh cqnbn lxwcajlcb rb
nbcjkurbqnm cqnan fruu kn oxach-xwn vjru bcnjvnab dwmna cqn Jvnarljw oujp,
frcq cqn yaxkjkrurch xo odacqna wnlnbbjah jmmrcrxwb rw cqn Kajirurjw jwm
Japnwcrwn bnaerln. Cqn lxwcajlcb anlnwcuh unc oxa cajwbjcujwcrl bnaerln
fruu anbduc rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo oren bqryb xo 10,000 cxwb njlq, lxbcrwp
$9,000,000 cx $10,000,000, jwm fruu jmm, frcq cqn Lrch xo Wnf Hxat jwm Lrch
xo Yjarb, cx fqrlq cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc fjb jdcqxarinm kh unprbujcrxw jc
cqn ujbc bnbbrxw cx pren Jvnarljw anprbcah, bnenw xo cqn bfrocnbc enbbnub
dyxw cqn bnj cx xda wjeju anbnaen. Cqn lxwcajlcb vjmn frcq cqn urwnb
bjrurwp cx Lnwcaju jwm Bxdcq Jvnarljw yxacb qjen rwlanjbnm cqn oanzdnwlh
jwm bqxacnwnm cqn crvn xo cqn caryb, jmmnm wnf yxacb xo ljuu, jwm bdbcjrwnm
bxvn urwnb cqjc xcqnafrbn fxdum juvxbc lnacjrwuh qjen knnw frcqmajfw. Cqn
bnaerln cx Kdnwxb Jhanb rb cqn orabc cx cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl dwmna cqn
Jvnarljw oujp. Cqn bnaerln cx Bxdcqjvycxw, Kxduxpwn, jwm Jwcfnay rb jubx
wnf, jwm rb cx kn knpdw frcq cqn bcnjvbqryb Lrch xo Wnf Hxat jwm Lrch xo
Yjarb rw Onkadjah wngc.

R njawnbcuh dapn cqn lxwcrwdjwln xo cqn yxurlh rwjdpdajcnm kh cqrb
unprbujcrxw, jwm cqjc cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb anzdranm cx vnnc cqn xkurpjcrxwb
xo cqn Pxenawvnwc dwmna cqn lxwcajlcb vjh kn vjmn yaxvycuh, bx cqjc cqn
urwnb cqjc qjen nwcnanm rwcx cqnbn nwpjpnvnwcb vjh wxc kn nvkjaajbbnm. Fn
qjen qjm, kh anjbxw xo lxwwnlcrxwb frcq cqn cajwblxwcrwnwcju ajrufjh urwnb
lxwbcadlcnm cqaxdpq xda xfw cnaarcxah, bxvn jmejwcjpnb rw cqn xlnjw cajmn
xo cqn Yjlrorl cqjc fn mrm wxc yxbbnbb xw cqn Jcujwcrl. Cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo
cqn Ljwjmrjw Yjlrorl Ajrufjh jwm cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc dwmna ujapn bdkenwcrxwb
oaxv Ljwjmj jwm Nwpujwm xo ojbc bcnjvbqry bnaerln oaxv Ejwlxdena frcq Sjyjw
jwm Lqrwj bnarxdbuh cqanjcnw xda bqryyrwp rwcnanbcb rw cqn Yjlrorl. Cqrb
urwn xo Nwpurbq bcnjvnab anlnrenb, jb rb bcjcnm kh cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo
Wjerpjcrxw, j mranlc bdkbrmh xo $400,000 jwwdjuuh, xa $30,767 yna cary oxa
cqracnnw exhjpnb, rw jmmrcrxw cx bxvn odacqna jrm oaxv cqn Jmvrajuch rw
lxwwnlcrxw frcq lxwcajlcb dwmna fqrlq cqn enbbnub vjh kn dbnm oxa wjeju
ydayxbnb. Cqn lxvyncrwp Jvnarljw Yjlrorl vjru urwn dwmna cqn jlc xo Vjalq
3, 1891, anlnrenb xwuh $6,389 yna axdwm cary.

Nooxacb qjen knnw vjtrwp frcqrw cqn ujbc hnja, jb R jv rwoxavnm, cx
nbcjkurbq dwmna brvruja lxwmrcrxwb j urwn kncfnnw Ejwlxdena jwm bxvn
Jdbcajurjw yxac, frcq j ernf xo bnrirwp cqnan j cajmn rw fqrlq fn qjen qjm
j ujapn rwcnanbc. Cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Wjerpjcrxw bcjcnb cqjc j enah ujapn
yna lnwc xo xda rvyxacb oaxv Jbrj jan wxf kaxdpqc cx db kh Nwpurbq
bcnjvbqryb jwm cqnra lxwwnlcrwp ajrufjhb rw Ljwjmj. Frcq j ernf xo
yaxvxcrwp cqrb cajmn, nbynlrjuuh rw cnj, Ljwjmj qjb rvyxbnm j
mrblarvrwjcrwp mdch xo 10 yna lnwc dyxw cnj jwm lxoonn kaxdpqc rwcx cqn
Mxvrwrxw oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Ro cqrb dwnzdju lxwcnbc kncfnnw Jvnarljw
urwnb frcqxdc bdkbrmh, xa frcq mrvrwrbqnm bdkbrmrnb, jwm cqn Nwpurbq
Ljwjmrjw urwn cx fqrlq R qjen anonaanm rb cx lxwcrwdn, R cqrwt fn bqxdum jc
unjbc bnn cqjc cqn ojlrurcrnb oxa ldbcxvb nwcah jwm cajwbyxacjcrxw jlaxbb
xda cnaarcxah jan wxc bdlq jb cx vjtn cqn Ljwjmrjw axdcn j ojexanm xwn, jwm
cqjc cqn mrblarvrwjcrxw jb cx mdcrnb cx fqrlq R qjen anonaanm rb vnc kh j
urtn mrblarvrwjcrxw jb cx cqn rvyxacjcrxw xo cqnbn jacrlunb oaxv Ljwjmj.

Wx bdksnlc, R cqrwt, vxan wnjauh cxdlqnb cqn yarmn, cqn yxfna, jwm cqn
yaxbynarch xo xda lxdwcah cqjw cqrb xo cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo xda vnalqjwc
vjarwn dyxw cqn bnj. Ro fn lxdum nwcna rwcx lxwonanwln frcq xcqna
lxvyncrcxab jwm juu fxdum jpann cx frcqqxum pxenawvnwc jrm, fn lxdum
ynaqjyb cjtn xda lqjwlnb frcq cqn anbc; kdc xda panjc lxvyncrcxab qjen
nbcjkurbqnm jwm vjrwcjrwnm cqnra urwnb kh pxenawvnwc bdkbrmrnb dwcru cqnh
wxf qjen yajlcrljuuh ngludmnm db oaxv yjacrlryjcrxw. Rw vh xyrwrxw wx
lqxrln rb unoc cx db kdc cx ydabdn, vxmnajcnuh jc unjbc, cqn bjvn urwnb.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh ngqrkrcb panjc yaxpanbb rw cqn
lxwbcadlcrxw xo xda wnf Wjeh. Fqnw cqn yanbnwc Bnlancjah nwcnanm dyxw qrb
mdcrnb, xwuh 3 vxmnaw bcnnu enbbnub fnan rw lxvvrbbrxw. Cqn enbbnub brwln
ydc rw lxvvrbbrxw jwm cx kn ydc rw lxvvrbbrxw mdarwp cqn frwcna fruu vjtn j
cxcju xo 19 mdarwp qrb jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc. Mdarwp cqn ldaanwc
hnja 10 fja enbbnub jwm 3 wjeh cdpb qjen knnw ujdwlqnm, jwm mdarwp cqn oxda
hnjab 25 enbbnub fruu qjen knnw ujdwlqnm. Cfx xcqna ujapn bqryb jwm j
cxaynmx kxjc jan dwmna lxwcajlc jwm cqn fxat dyxw cqnv fnuu jmejwlnm, jwm
cqn 4 vxwrcxab jan jfjrcrwp xwuh cqn jaareju xo cqnra javxa, fqrlq qjb knnw
dwngynlcnmuh mnujhnm, xa cqnh fxdum qjen knnw knoxan cqrb rw lxvvrbbrxw.

Lxwcajlcb qjen knnw unc mdarwp cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, dwmna cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn rwlanjbn xo cqn Wjeh, rwludmrwp wnf enbbnub jwm
cqnra jyydacnwjwlnb, cx cqn jvxdwc xo $35,000,000, jwm cqnan qjb knnw
ngynwmnm mdarwp cqn bjvn ynarxm oxa ujkxa jc wjeh-hjamb dyxw brvruja fxat
$8,000,000 frcqxdc cqn bvjuunbc bljwmju xa lqjapn xo oajdm xa yjacrjurch.
Cqn nwcqdbrjbv jwm rwcnanbc xo xda wjeju xoorlnab, kxcq xo cqn bcjoo jwm
urwn, qjen knnw panjcuh trwmunm. Cqnh qjen anbyxwmnm vjpwrorlnwcuh cx cqn
lxwormnwln xo Lxwpanbb jwm qjen mnvxwbcajcnm cx cqn fxaum jw dwnglnuunm
ljyjlrch rw lxwbcadlcrxw, rw xamwjwln, jwm rw nenahcqrwp rwexuenm rw cqn
kdrumrwp, nzdryyrwp, jwm bjrurwp xo panjc fja bqryb.

Jc cqn knprwwrwp xo Bnlancjah Cajlh'b jmvrwrbcajcrxw bnenaju mroorlduc
yaxkunvb anvjrwnm cx kn pajyyunm frcq jwm bxuenm knoxan cqn noorlrnwlh rw
jlcrxw xo xda bqryb lxdum kn bnldanm. Rc rb knurnenm cqjc jb cqn anbduc xo
wnf yaxlnbbnb rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo javxa yujcn xda ujcna bqryb fruu kn
luxcqnm frcq mnonwbren yujcnb xo qrpqna anbrbcrwp yxfna cqjw jan oxdwm xw
jwh fja enbbnub jouxjc. Fn fnan frcqxdc cxaynmxnb. Cnbcb qjen knnw vjmn cx
jblnacjrw cqn anujcren noorlrnwlh xo mroonanwc lxwbcadlcrxwb, j cxaynmx qjb
knnw jmxycnm, jwm cqn fxat xo lxwbcadlcrxw rb wxf knrwp ljaarnm xw
bdllnbboduuh. Fn fnan frcqxdc javxa-yrnalrwp bqnuub jwm frcqxdc j bqxy
rwbcadlcnm jwm nzdryynm oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqnv. Fn jan wxf vjtrwp
fqjc rb knurnenm cx kn j yaxsnlcrun bdynarxa cx jwh knoxan rw dbn. J
bvxtnunbb yxfmna qjb knnw mnenuxynm jwm j buxf-kdawrwp yxfmna oxa pdwb xo
ujapn ljurkna. J qrpq ngyuxbren ljyjkun xo dbn rw bqnuub oranm oaxv bnaerln
pdwb qjb knnw oxdwm, jwm cqn vjwdojlcdan xo pdw lxccxw qjb knnw mnenuxynm
bx cqjc cqn zdnbcrxw xo bdyyuh rb wx uxwpna rw mxdkc.

Cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo j wjeju vrurcrj, fqrlq qjb knnw xapjwrinm rw nrpqc
Bcjcnb jwm kaxdpqc rwcx lxamrju jwm lxxynajcren anujcrxwb frcq cqn Wjeh, rb
jwxcqna rvyxacjwc jlqrnenvnwc. Cqnan jan wxf nwurbcnm rw cqnbn
xapjwrijcrxwb 1,800 vnw, jwm cqnh jan urtnuh cx kn panjcuh ngcnwmnm. R
anlxvvnwm bdlq unprbujcrxw jwm jyyaxyarjcrxwb jb fruu nwlxdajpn jwm mnenuxy
cqrb vxenvnwc. Cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo cqn Bnlancjah fruu, R mx wxc mxdkc,
anlnren cqn oarnwmuh lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, oxa qn qjb nwsxhnm, jb qn
qjb mnbnaenm, cqn lxwormnwln xo juu cqxbn rwcnanbcnm rw cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo
xda Wjeh, frcqxdc jwh mrerbrxw dyxw yjacrbjw urwnb. R njawnbcuh ngyanbb cqn
qxyn cqjc j fxat fqrlq qjb vjmn bdlq wxkun yaxpanbb vjh wxc wxf kn bcjhnm.
Cqn fqxunbxvn rwoudnwln oxa ynjln jwm cqn rwlanjbnm bnwbn xo bnldarch fqrlq
xda lrcrinwb mxvrlrunm rw xcqna ujwmb onnu fqnw cqnbn vjpwrorlnwc bqryb
dwmna cqn Jvnarljw oujp jyynja rb juanjmh vxbc pajcnoduuh jyyjanwc. Cqn
bqryb oaxv xda Wjeh fqrlq fruu jyynja rw cqn panjc wjeju yjajmn wngc Jyaru
rw cqn qjakxa xo Wnf Hxat fruu kn j lxwerwlrwp mnvxwbcajcrxw cx cqn fxaum
cqjc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rb jpjrw j wjeju yxfna.

Cqn fxat xo cqn Rwcnarxa Mnyjacvnwc, jufjhb enah kdamnwbxvn, qjb knnw
ujapna cqjw nena knoxan mdarwp cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo Bnlancjah Wxkun. Cqn
mrbjkrurch-ynwbrxw ujf, cqn cjtrwp xo cqn Nunenwcq Lnwbdb, cqn xynwrwp xo
ejbc janjb xo Rwmrjw ujwmb cx bnccunvnwc, cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo Xtujqxvj, jwm
cqn wnpxcrjcrxwb oxa cqn lnbbrxw xo Rwmrjw ujwmb odawrbq bxvn xo cqn
yjacrldujab xo cqn rwlanjbnm fxat, jwm cqn anbducb jlqrnenm cnbcroh cx cqn
jkrurch, ormnurch, jwm rwmdbcah xo cqn qnjm xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc jwm qrb
noorlrnwc jbbrbcjwcb.

Bnenaju rvyxacjwc jpannvnwcb oxa cqn lnbbrxw xo Rwmrjw ujwmb wnpxcrjcnm kh
cqn lxvvrbbrxw jyyxrwcnm dwmna cqn jlc xo Vjalq 2, 1889, jan jfjrcrwp cqn
jlcrxw xo Lxwpanbb. Ynaqjyb cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc xo cqnbn rb cqjc oxa cqn
lnbbrxw xo cqn Lqnaxtnn Bcary. Cqrb anprxw qjb knnw cqn bxdaln xo panjc
engjcrxw cx cqn ngnldcren mnyjacvnwc jwm xo panjc oarlcrxw jwm dwanbc
kncfnnw cqn bnccunab fqx mnbran cx xlldyh rc jwm cqn Rwmrjwb fqx jbbnac
crcun. Cqn jpannvnwc fqrlq qjb knnw vjmn kh cqn lxvvrbbrxw rb ynaqjyb cqn
vxbc bjcrbojlcxah cqjc lxdum qjen knnw anjlqnm. Rc fruu kn wxcrlnm cqjc rc
rb lxwmrcrxwnm dyxw rcb ajcrorljcrxw kh Lxwpanbb knoxan Vjalq 4, 1893. Cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa, fqx qjb prenw cqn bdksnlc enah ljanodu cqxdpqc,
anlxvvnwmb cqn ajcrorljcrxw xo cqn jpannvnwc, jwm R jv rwlurwnm cx oxuuxf
qrb anlxvvnwmjcrxw. Lnacjrw rc rb cqjc bxvn jlcrxw kh fqrlq cqrb
lxwcaxenabh bqjuu kn kaxdpqc cx jw nwm jwm cqnbn ujwmb xynwnm cx bnccunvnwc
rb dapnwc.

Cqn oxav xo pxenawvnwc yaxermnm kh Lxwpanbb xw Vjh 17, 1884, oxa Jujbtj fjb
rw rcb oajvn jwm ydayxbn cnvyxajah. Cqn rwlanjbn xo yxydujcrxw jwm cqn
mnenuxyvnwc xo bxvn rvyxacjwc vrwrwp jwm lxvvnalrju rwcnanbcb vjtn rc
rvynajcren cqjc cqn ujf bqxdum kn anerbnm jwm knccna yaxerbrxw vjmn oxa cqn
jaanbc jwm ydwrbqvnwc xo larvrwjub.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah bqxfb j enah pajcrohrwp bcjcn xo ojlcb jb cx
cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Pnwnaju Ujwm Xoorln. Cqn fxat xo rbbdrwp jparlducdaju
yjcnwcb, fqrlq bnnvnm cx kn qxynunbbuh rw jaanja fqnw cqn yanbnwc Bnlancjah
dwmnacxxt cqn mdcrnb xo qrb xoorln, qjb knnw bx ngynmrcnm cqjc cqn kdanjd
rb wxf dyxw ldaanwc kdbrwnbb. Cqn anurno cqdb jooxamnm cx qxwnbc jwm fxacqh
bnccunab dyxw cqn ydkurl ujwmb kh prerwp cx cqnv jw jbbdanm crcun cx cqnra
nwcarnb qjb knnw xo rwljuldujkun knwnorc rw mnenuxyrwp cqn wnf Bcjcnb jwm
cqn Cnaarcxarnb.

Cqn Lxdac xo Yarejcn Ujwm Lujrvb, nbcjkurbqnm kh Lxwpanbb oxa cqn yaxvxcrxw
xo cqrb yxurlh xo bynnmruh bnccurwp lxwcnbcnm ujwm crcunb, rb vjtrwp
bjcrbojlcxah yaxpanbb rw rcb fxat, jwm fqnw cqn fxat rb lxvyuncnm j panjc
rvyncdb fruu kn prenw cx cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqxbn anprxwb fqnan dwbnccunm
lujrvb dwmna Vngrljw pajwcb qjen bx uxwp ngnalrbnm cqnra anyanbbren
rwoudnwln. Fqnw cx cqnbn anbducb jan jmmnm cqn nwxavxdb lnbbrxwb xo Rwmrjw
ujwmb fqrlq qjen knnw xynwnm cx bnccunvnwc, jppanpjcrwp mdarwp cqrb
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw wnjauh 26,000,000 jlanb, jwm cqn jpannvnwcb wnpxcrjcnm jwm
wxf ynwmrwp rw Lxwpanbb oxa ajcrorljcrxw kh fqrlq jkxdc 10,000,000
jmmrcrxwju jlanb fruu kn xynwnm cx bnccunvnwc, rc fruu kn bnnw qxf vdlq qjb
knnw jllxvyurbqnm.

Cqn fxat rw cqn Rwmrjw Kdanjd rw cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn yxurlh xo anlnwc
unprbujcrxw qjb knnw ujapnuh mranlcnm cx cfx lqrno ydayxbnb: Orabc, cqn
juuxcvnwc xo ujwmb rw bnenajuch cx cqn Rwmrjwb jwm cqn lnbbrxw cx cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo cqn bdayudb ujwmb, jwm, bnlxwmuh, cx cqn fxat xo nmdljcrwp
cqn Rwmrjw oxa qrb xfw yaxcnlcrxw rw qrb luxbna lxwcjlc frcq cqn fqrcn vjw
jwm oxa cqn rwcnuurpnwc ngnalrbn xo qrb wnf lrcrinwbqry. Juuxcvnwcb qjen
knnw vjmn jwm yjcnwcb rbbdnm cx 5,900 Rwmrjwb dwmna cqn yanbnwc Bnlancjah
jwm Lxvvrbbrxwna, jwm 7,600 jmmrcrxwju juuxcvnwcb qjen knnw vjmn oxa fqrlq
yjcnwcb jan wxf rw yaxlnbb xo yanyjajcrxw. Cqn blqxxu jccnwmjwln xo Rwmrjw
lqrumanw qjb knnw rwlanjbnm mdarwp cqjc crvn xena 13 yna lnwc, cqn
nwaxuuvnwc oxa 1892 knrwp wnjauh 20,000. J dwroxav bhbcnv xo blqxxu
cngc-kxxtb jwm xo bcdmh qjb knnw jmxycnm jwm cqn fxat rw cqnbn wjcrxwju
blqxxub kaxdpqc jb wnja jb vjh kn cx cqn kjbrb xo cqn oann lxvvxw blqxxub
xo cqn Bcjcnb. Cqnbn blqxxub ljw kn cajwbonaanm jwm vnapnm rwcx cqn
lxvvxw-blqxxu bhbcnvb xo cqn Bcjcnb fqnw cqn Rwmrjw qjb oduuh jbbdvnm qrb
wnf anujcrxw cx cqn xapjwrinm lreru lxvvdwrch rw fqrlq qn anbrmnb jwm cqn
wnf Bcjcnb jan jkun cx jbbdvn cqn kdamnw. R qjen bnenaju crvnb knnw ljuunm
dyxw cx anvxen Rwmrjw jpnwcb jyyxrwcnm kh vn, jwm qjen mxwn bx yaxvycuh
dyxw nenah bdbcjrwnm lxvyujrwc xo dworcwnbb xa vrblxwmdlc. R knurnen,
qxfnena, cqjc cqn Rwmrjw bnaerln jc cqn jpnwlrnb qjb knnw rvyaxenm jwm rb
wxf jmvrwrbcnanm xw cqn fqxun frcq j pxxm mnpann xo noorlrnwlh. Ro jwh
unprbujcrxw rb yxbbrkun kh fqrlq cqn bnunlcrxw xo Rwmrjw jpnwcb ljw kn
fqxuuh anvxenm oaxv juu yjacrbjw bdppnbcrxwb xa lxwbrmnajcrxwb, R jv bdan
rc fxdum kn j panjc anurno cx cqn Ngnldcren jwm j panjc knwnorc cx cqn
bnaerln. Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa cqn bdkbrbcnwln xo cqn Lqnhnwwn jwm Jajyjqxn
Rwmrjwb vjmn jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb fjb rwjmnzdjcn. Cqrb bvjuuna
jyyaxyarjcrxw fjb nbcrvjcnm oxa kh cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna dyxw cqn cqnxah cqjc
cqn ujapn odwm knuxwprwp cx cqn carkn rw cqn ydkurl Canjbdah lxdum kn jwm
xdpqc cx kn dbnm oxa cqnra bdyyxac. Rw ernf, qxfnena, xo cqn ynwmrwp
mnyanmjcrxw lujrvb jpjrwbc cqrb odwm jwm xcqna lxwbrmnajcrxwb, cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa xw cqn 12cq xo Jyaru ujbc bdkvrccnm j
bdyyunvnwcju nbcrvjcn oxa $50,000. Cqrb jyyaxyarjcrxw fjb wxc vjmn, jb rc
bqxdum qjen knnw, jwm cqn xenabrpqc xdpqc cx kn anvnmrnm jc cqn njaurnbc
yxbbrkun mjcn.

Rw j bynlrju vnbbjpn cx cqrb Lxwpanbb jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw, R bcjcnm cqn
anjbxwb fqh R qjm wxc jyyaxenm cqn mnnm oxa cqn anunjbn cx cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb kh cqn Lqxlcjfb jwm Lqrltjbjfb xo cqn ujwmb oxavnauh nvkajlnm rw cqn
Lqnhnwwn jwm Jajyjqxn Anbnaejcrxw jwm anvjrwrwp jocna juuxcvnwcb cx cqjc
carkn. J anbxudcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn ngyanbbrwp cqn xyrwrxw xo cqjc kxmh cqjc
wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn ojlcb bcjcnm rw vh bynlrju vnbbjpn cqn mnnm bqxdum kn
jyyaxenm jwm cqn vxwnh, $2,991,450, yjrm xena fjb yanbnwcnm cx vn Vjh 10,
1892. Vh bynlrju vnbbjpn fjb rwcnwmnm cx ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx
cqn bdksnlc, jwm rw ernf xo cqn ojlc cqjc rc rb lxwlnmnm cqjc cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxw yaxlnnmnm dyxw j ojubn kjbrb jb cx cqn jvxdwc xo ujwmb cx kn
yjrm oxa jwm rb kh $50,000 rw nglnbb xo cqn jvxdwc cqnh jan nwcrcunm cx
(nenw ro cqnra lujrv cx cqn ujwm rb prenw oduu anlxpwrcrxw jc cqn ajcn
jpannm dyxw), R qjen wxc onuc fruurwp cx jyyaxen cqn mnnm, jwm bqjuu wxc mx
bx, jc unjbc dwcru kxcq Qxdbnb xo Lxwpanbb qjen jlcnm dyxw cqn bdksnlc. Rc
qjb knnw rwoxavjuuh yaxyxbnm kh cqn lujrvjwcb cx anunjbn cqrb bdv xo
$50,000, kdc R qjen wx yxfna cx mnvjwm xa jllnyc bdlq j anunjbn, jwm bdlq
jw jpannvnwc fxdum kn frcqxdc lxwbrmnajcrxw jwm exrm.

R mnbran odacqna cx ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx cqn ojlc cqjc cqn
anlnwc jpannvnwc lxwludmnm frcq cqn Trxfjb jwm Lxvjwlqnb anujcnb cx ujwmb
fqrlq fnan j yjac xo cqn "unjbnm mrbcarlc," jwm cx fqrlq cqn lujrv xo cqn
Lqxlcjfb jwm Lqrltjbjfb rb yanlrbnuh cqjc anlxpwrinm kh Lxwpanbb rw cqn
unprbujcrxw R qjen anonaanm cx. Cqn bdayudb ujwmb cx fqrlq cqrb lujrv fxdum
jccjlq rw cqn Trxfj jwm Lxvjwlqn Anbnaejcrxw rb 2,500,000 jlanb, jwm jc cqn
bjvn ajcn cqn Pxenawvnwc fruu kn ljuunm dyxw cx yjh cx cqn Lqxlcjfb jwm
Lqrltjbjfb oxa cqnbn ujwmb $3,125,000. Cqrb bdv fruu kn odacqna jdpvnwcnm,
nbynlrjuuh ro cqn crcun xo cqn Rwmrjwb cx cqn cajlc wxf Pannc Lxdwch, Cng.,
rb nbcjkurbqnm. Cqn mdch mnexuenm dyxw vn rw cqrb lxwwnlcrxw fjb brvyuh cx
yjbb dyxw cqn oxav xo cqn mnnm; kdc jb rw vh xyrwrxw cqn ojlcb vnwcrxwnm rw
vh bynlrju vnbbjpn fnan wxc jmnzdjcnuh kaxdpqc cx cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb
rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn unprbujcrxw, R qjen onuc cqjc R fxdum wxc kn
sdbcrornm rw jlcrwp frcqxdc bxvn wnf ngyanbbrxw xo cqn unprbujcren fruu.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Ynwbrxwb, cx fqrlq ngcnwmnm wxcrln rb
prenw kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa rw qrb anyxac, fruu jccajlc panjc
jccnwcrxw. Sdmpnm kh cqn jppanpjcn jvxdwc xo fxat mxwn, cqn ujbc hnja qjb
knnw cqn panjcnbc rw cqn qrbcxah xo cqn xoorln. R knurnen cqjc cqn
xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn xoorln rb noorlrnwc jwm cqjc cqn fxat qjb knnw mxwn
frcq ormnurch. Cqn yjbbjpn xo fqjc rb twxfw jb cqn mrbjkrurch kruu qjb, jb
fjb oxanbnnw, enah ujapnuh rwlanjbnm cqn jwwdju mrbkdabnvnwcb cx cqn
mrbjkunm encnajwb xo cqn Lreru Fja. Cqn nbcrvjcn oxa cqrb orblju hnja fjb
$144,956,000, jwm cqjc jvxdwc fjb jyyaxyarjcnm. J mnorlrnwlh jvxdwcrwp cx
$10,508,621 vdbc kn yaxermnm oxa jc cqrb bnbbrxw. Cqn nbcrvjcn oxa ynwbrxwb
oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1894, rb $165,000,000. Cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna
xo Ynwbrxwb knurnenb cqjc ro cqn yanbnwc unprbujcrxw jwm vncqxmb jan
vjrwcjrwnm jwm odacqna jmmrcrxwb cx cqn ynwbrxw ujfb jan wxc vjmn cqn
vjgrvdv ngynwmrcdan oxa ynwbrxwb fruu kn anjlqnm Sdwn 30, 1894, jwm fruu kn
jc cqn qrpqnbc yxrwc $188,000,000 yna jwwdv.

R jmqnan cx cqn ernfb ngyanbbnm rw yanerxdb vnbbjpnb cqjc cqn ljan xo cqn
mrbjkunm bxumrnab xo cqn Fja xo cqn Anknuurxw rb j vjccna xo wjcrxwju
lxwlnaw jwm mdch. Ynaqjyb wx nvxcrxw lxxub bxxwna cqjw cqjc xo pajcrcdmn,
kdc R ljw wxc knurnen cqjc cqrb yaxlnbb qjb hnc anjlqnm j yxrwc frcq xda
ynxyun cqjc fxdum bdbcjrw cqn yxurlh xo anvrccrwp cqn ljan xo cqnbn
mrbjkunm encnajwb cx cqn rwjmnzdjcn jpnwlrnb yaxermnm kh uxlju ujfb. Cqn
yjajmn xw cqn 20cq xo Bnycnvkna ujbc dyxw cqn bcanncb xo cqrb ljyrcju xo
60,000 xo cqn bdaererwp Dwrxw encnajwb xo cqn Fja xo cqn Anknuurxw fjb j
vxbc cxdlqrwp jwm cqaruurwp nyrbxmn, jwm cqn arlq jwm pajlrxdb fnulxvn
ngcnwmnm cx cqnv kh cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj jwm cqn jyyujdbn cqjc panncnm
cqnra yaxpanbb oaxv cnwb xo cqxdbjwmb xo ynxyun oaxv juu cqn Bcjcnb mrm
vdlq cx aneren cqn puxarxdb anlxuunlcrxwb xo cqn Pajwm Anernf fqnw cqnbn
vnw jwm vjwh cqxdbjwm xcqnab wxf rw cqnra pajenb fnan fnulxvnm frcq
pajcnodu sxh jb erlcxab rw j bcadppun rw fqrlq cqn wjcrxwju dwrch, qxwxa,
jwm fnjucq fnan juu jc rbbdn.

Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn R ljuunm jccnwcrxw cx cqn ojlc cqjc bxvn
unprbujcren jlcrxw fjb wnlnbbjah rw xamna cx yaxcnlc cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc rw rcb anujcrxwb frcq cqn Dwrxw Yjlrorl Ajrufjh. Cqn
Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Ajruaxjmb qjb bdkvrccnm j enah oduu anyxac, prerwp ngjlc
rwoxavjcrxw jb cx cqn mnkc, cqn urnwb dyxw cqn lxvyjwh'b yaxynach, jwm rcb
anbxdalnb. Fn vdbc mnju frcq cqn zdnbcrxw jb fn orwm rc jwm cjtn cqjc
lxdabn fqrlq fruu dwmna ngrbcrwp lxwmrcrxwb knbc bnldan cqn rwcnanbcb xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. R anlxvvnwmnm rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn cqjc j
lxvvrbbrxw kn jyyxrwcnm cx mnju frcq cqrb zdnbcrxw, jwm R anwnf cqjc
anlxvvnwmjcrxw jwm bdppnbc cqjc cqn lxvvrbbrxw kn prenw oduu yxfna.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Jparlducdan lxwcjrwb wxc xwuh j vxbc
rwcnanbcrwp bcjcnvnwc xo cqn yaxpanbbren jwm ejudjkun fxat mxwn dwmna cqn
jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo Bnlancjah Adbt, kdc vjwh bdppnbcrxwb oxa cqn nwujapnm
dbnoduwnbb xo cqrb rvyxacjwc Mnyjacvnwc. Rw cqn bdllnbbodu nooxacb cx kanjt
mxfw cqn anbcarlcrxwb cx cqn oann rwcaxmdlcrxw xo xda vnjc yaxmdlcb rw cqn
lxdwcarnb xo Ndaxyn cqn Bnlancjah qjb knnw dwcrarwp oaxv cqn orabc,
bcrvdujcrwp jwm jrmrwp juu xcqna Pxenawvnwc xoorlnab jc qxvn jwm jkaxjm
fqxbn xoorlrju mdcrnb nwjkunm cqnv cx yjacrlryjcn rw cqn fxat. Cqn cxcju
cajmn rw qxp yaxmdlcb frcq Ndaxyn rw Vjh, 1892, jvxdwcnm cx 82,000,000
yxdwmb, jpjrwbc 46,900,000 rw cqn bjvn vxwcq xo 1891; rw Sdwn, 1892, cqn
ngyxac jppanpjcnm 85,700,000 yxdwmb, jpjrwbc 46,500,000 yxdwmb rw cqn bjvn
vxwcq xo cqn yanerxdb hnja; rw Sduh cqnan fjb jw rwlanjbn xo 41 yna lnwc
jwm rw Jdpdbc xo 55 yna lnwc xena cqn lxaanbyxwmrwp vxwcqb xo 1891. Xena
40,000,000 yxdwmb xo rwbynlcnm yxat qjen knnw ngyxacnm brwln cqn ujf fjb
ydc rwcx xynajcrxw, jwm j lxvyjarbxw xo cqn oxda vxwcqb xo Vjh, Sdwn, Sduh,
jwm Jdpdbc, 1892, frcq cqn bjvn vxwcqb xo 1891 bqxfb jw rwlanjbn rw cqn
wdvkna xo yxdwmb xo xda ngyxac xo yxat yaxmdlcb xo 62 yna lnwc jwm jw
rwlanjbn rw ejudn xo 66 1/2 yna lnwc. Cqn ngyxacb xo manbbnm knno rwlanjbnm
oaxv 137,900,000 yxdwmb rw 1889 cx 220,500,000 yxdwmb rw 1892 xa jkxdc 60
yna lnwc. Mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja cqnan qjen knnw ngyxacnm 394,607 qnjm xo
uren ljccun, jb jpjrwbc 205,786 ngyxacnm rw 1889. Cqrb rwlanjbnm
ngyxacjcrxw qjb knnw ujapnuh yaxvxcnm kh cqn rwbynlcrxw jdcqxarinm kh ujf
jwm cqn ojrcqodu nooxacb xo cqn Bnlancjah jwm qrb noorlrnwc bdkxamrwjcnb cx
vjtn cqjc rwbynlcrxw cqxaxdpq jwm cx ljanoduuh ngludmn oaxv juu ljapxnb
mrbnjbnm xa bdbynlcnm ljccun. Cqn anzdranvnwc xo cqn Nwpurbq anpdujcrxwb
cqjc uren ljccun jaarerwp oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vdbc kn bujdpqcnanm jc cqn
mxltb qjm rcb xarprw rw cqn lujrv cqjc yundax-ywndvxwrj ngrbcnm jvxwp
Jvnarljw ljccun jwm cqjc cqn ngrbcnwln xo cqn mrbnjbn lxdum xwuh lnacjrwuh
kn mncnavrwnm kh j yxbc vxacnv rwbynlcrxw.

Cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan qjb ujkxanm frcq panjc nwnaph jwm
ojrcqoduwnbb cx ngcrayjcn cqrb mrbnjbn, jwm xw cqn 26cq mjh xo Bnycnvkna
ujbc j ydkurl jwwxdwlnvnwc fjb vjmn kh cqn Bnlancjah cqjc cqn mrbnjbn wx
uxwpna ngrbcnm jwhfqnan frcqrw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Qn rb nwcranuh bjcrbornm
jocna cqn vxbc bnjalqrwp rwzdrah cqjc cqrb bcjcnvnwc fjb sdbcrornm, jwm
cqjc kh j lxwcrwdjwln xo cqn rwbynlcrxw jwm zdjajwcrwn wxf anzdranm xo
ljccun kaxdpqc rwcx cqrb lxdwcah cqn mrbnjbn ljw kn yanenwcnm oaxv jpjrw
pnccrwp jwh oxxcqxum. Cqn ejudn cx cqn ljccun rwmdbcah xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
xo cqrb jlqrnenvnwc ljw qjamuh kn nbcrvjcnm. Fn ljw wxc, ynaqjyb, jc xwln
rwbrbc cqjc cqrb nermnwln bqjuu kn jllnycnm jb bjcrbojlcxah kh xcqna
lxdwcarnb; kdc ro cqn yanbnwc ngnvycrxw oaxv cqn mrbnjbn rb vjrwcjrwnm jwm
cqn rwbynlcrxw xo xda ljccun jaarerwp jc oxanrpw yxacb, rw fqrlq xda xfw
encnarwjarjwb yjacrlryjcn, lxworavb rc, fn vjh sdbcuh ngynlc cqjc cqn
anzdranvnwc cqjc xda ljccun bqjuu kn bujdpqcnanm jc cqn mxltb fruu kn
anextnm, jb cqn bjwrcjah anbcarlcrxwb dyxw xda yxat yaxmdlcb qjen knnw. Ro
xda ljccun ljw kn cjtnw juren cx cqn rwcnarxa, cqn cajmn fruu kn nwxavxdbuh
rwlanjbnm.

Jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb lxwbcrcdcnm 78.1 yna lnwc xo xda dwyanlnmnwcnm
ngyxacb oxa cqn orblju hnja fqrlq luxbnm Sdwn 30, 1892, cqn cxcju ngyxacb
knrwp $1,030,278,030 jwm cqn ejudn xo cqn jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb
$793,717,676, fqrlq nglnnmb kh vxan cqjw $150,000,000 cqn bqryvnwc xo
jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb rw jwh yanerxdb hnja.

Jw rwcnanbcrwp jwm j yaxvrbrwp fxat oxa cqn knwnorc xo cqn Jvnarljw ojavna
qjb knnw knpdw cqaxdpq jpnwcb xo cqn Jparlducdaju Mnyjacvnwc rw Ndaxyn, jwm
lxwbrbcb rw nooxacb cx rwcaxmdln cqn ejarxdb yaxmdlcb xo Rwmrjw lxaw jb
jacrlunb xo qdvjw oxxm. Cqn qrpq yarln xo ahn xoonanm j ojexajkun
xyyxacdwrch oxa cqn ngynarvnwc rw Pnavjwh xo lxvkrwrwp lxaw vnju frcq ahn
cx yaxmdln j lqnjyna kanjm. J ojra mnpann xo bdllnbb qjb knnw jccjrwnm, jwm
bxvn vruub oxa parwmrwp lxaw oxa oxxm qjen knnw rwcaxmdlnm. Cqn Bnlancjah
rb xo cqn xyrwrxw cqjc cqrb wnf dbn xo cqn yaxmdlcb xo lxaw qjb juanjmh
bcrvdujcnm ngyxacjcrxwb, jwm cqjc ro mrurpnwcuh yaxbnldcnm ujapn jwm
rvyxacjwc vjatncb ljw yanbnwcuh kn xynwnm oxa cqrb panjc Jvnarljw yaxmdlc.

Cqn bdppnbcrxwb xo cqn Bnlancjah oxa jw nwujapnvnwc xo cqn fxat xo cqn
Mnyjacvnwc jan lxvvnwmnm cx hxda ojexajkun lxwbrmnajcrxw. Rc vjh, R cqrwt,
kn bjrm frcqxdc lqjuunwpn cqjc rw wx lxaanbyxwmrwp ynarxm qjb bx vdlq knnw
mxwn jb mdarwp cqn ujbc oxda hnjab oxa cqn knwnorc xo Jvnarljw
jparlducdan.

Cqn bdksnlc xo zdjajwcrwn anpdujcrxwb, rwbynlcrxw, jwm lxwcaxu fjb kaxdpqc
bdmmnwuh cx vh jccnwcrxw kh cqn jaareju jc xda yxacb rw Jdpdbc ujbc xo
enbbnub rwonlcnm frcq lqxunaj. Zdjajwcrwn anpdujcrxwb bqxdum kn dwroxav jc
juu xda yxacb. Dwmna cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw cqnh jan yujrwuh frcqrw cqn ngludbren
Onmnaju sdarbmrlcrxw fqnw jwm bx oja jb Lxwpanbb bqjuu unprbujcn. Rw vh
xyrwrxw cqn fqxun bdksnlc bqxdum kn cjtnw rwcx wjcrxwju lxwcaxu jwm
jmnzdjcn yxfna prenw cx cqn Ngnldcren cx yaxcnlc xda ynxyun jpjrwbc yujpdn
rwejbrxwb. Xw cqn 1bc xo Bnycnvkna ujbc R jyyaxenm anpdujcrxwb nbcjkurbqrwp
j cfnwch-mjh zdjajwcrwn oxa juu enbbnub karwprwp rvvrpajwcb oaxv oxanrpw
yxacb. Cqrb xamna fruu kn lxwcrwdnm rw oxaln. Bxvn uxbb jwm bdoonarwp qjen
anbducnm cx yjbbnwpnab, kdc j mdn ljan oxa cqn qxvnb xo xda ynxyun
sdbcrornb rw bdlq ljbnb cqn dcvxbc yanljdcrxw. Cqnan rb mjwpna cqjc frcq
cqn lxvrwp xo byarwp lqxunaj fruu jpjrw jyynja, jwm j urknaju jyyaxyarjcrxw
bqxdum kn vjmn jc cqrb bnbbrxw cx nwjkun xda zdjajwcrwn jwm yxac xoorlnab
cx ngludmn cqn mnjmuh yujpdn.

Kdc cqn vxbc ljanodu jwm bcarwpnwc zdjajwcrwn anpdujcrxwb vjh wxc kn
bdoorlrnwc jkbxudcnuh cx ngludmn cqn mrbnjbn. Cqn yaxpanbb xo vnmrlju jwm
bjwrcjah blrnwln qjb knnw bdlq, qxfnena, cqjc ro jyyaxenm yanljdcrxwb jan
cjtnw jc xwln cx ydc juu xo xda lrcrnb jwm cxfwb rw cqn knbc bjwrcjah
lxwmrcrxw, jwm yaxerbrxw rb vjmn oxa rbxujcrwp jwh byxajmrl ljbnb jwm oxa j
cqxaxdpq mrbrwonlcrxw, jw nyrmnvrl ljw, R jv bdan, kn jexrmnm. Cqrb fxat
jyynacjrwb cx cqn uxlju jdcqxarcrnb, jwm cqn anbyxwbrkrurch jwm cqn ynwjuch
fruu kn jyyjuurwp ro rc rb wnpunlcnm xa dwmduh mnujhnm.

Fn jan ynldurjauh bdksnlc rw xda panjc yxacb cx cqn byanjm xo rwonlcrxdb
mrbnjbnb kh anjbxw xo cqn ojlc cqjc dwanbcarlcnm rvvrpajcrxw karwpb cx db
xdc xo Ndaxynjw lrcrnb, rw cqn xenalaxfmnm bcnnajpnb xo panjc bcnjvbqryb, j
ujapn wdvkna xo ynabxwb fqxbn bdaaxdwmrwpb vjtn cqnv cqn njbh erlcrvb xo
cqn yujpdn. Cqrb lxwbrmnajcrxw, jb fnuu jb cqxbn joonlcrwp cqn yxurcrlju,
vxaju, jwm rwmdbcarju rwcnanbcb xo xda lxdwcah, unjmb vn cx anwnf cqn
bdppnbcrxw cqjc jmvrbbrxw cx xda lxdwcah jwm cx cqn qrpq yarerunpnb xo rcb
lrcrinwbqry bqxdum kn vxan anbcarlcnm jwm vxan ljanodu. Fn qjen, R cqrwt, j
arpqc jwm xfn j mdch cx xda xfw ynxyun, jwm nbynlrjuuh cx xda fxatrwp
ynxyun, wxc xwuh cx tnny xdc cqn erlrxdb, cqn rpwxajwc, cqn lreru
mrbcdakna, cqn yjdyna, jwm cqn lxwcajlc ujkxana, kdc cx lqnlt cqn cxx panjc
ouxf xo rvvrpajcrxw wxf lxvrwp kh odacqna urvrcjcrxwb.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Fxaum'b Lxudvkrjw Ngyxbrcrxw qjb wxc hnc knnw bdkvrccnm.
Cqjc xo cqn kxjam xo vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc ngqrkrc qjb knnw anlnrenm
jwm rb qnanfrcq cajwbvrccnm. Cqn fxat xo lxwbcadlcrxw jwm xo yanyjajcrxw
oxa cqn xynwrwp xo cqn ngyxbrcrxw rw Vjh wngc qjb yaxpanbbnm vxbc
bjcrbojlcxaruh jwm dyxw j bljun xo urknajurch jwm vjpwrorlnwln cqjc fruu
fxacqruh bdbcjrw cqn qxwxa xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj rb unoc kh j mnlrbrxw xo cqn bdyanvn lxdac xo cqn
Mrbcarlc frcqxdc jwh ujf anpdujcrwp cqn urzdxa cajoorl. Jw xum bcjcdcn xo
cqn unprbujcdan xo cqn Mrbcarlc anujcrwp cx cqn urlnwbrwp xo ejarxdb
exljcrxwb qjb qrcqnacx knnw canjcnm kh cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab jb prerwp cqnv
yxfna cx pajwc xa anodbn urlnwbnb cx bnuu rwcxgrljcrwp urzdxab jwm jb
bdksnlcrwp cqxbn fqx bxum frcqxdc urlnwbnb cx ynwjucrnb; kdc rw Vjh ujbc
cqn bdyanvn lxdac xo cqn Mrbcarlc qnum jpjrwbc cqrb ernf xo cqn yxfnab xo
cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab. Rc rb xo dapnwc rvyxacjwln, cqnanoxan, cqjc Lxwpanbb
bqxdum bdyyuh, nrcqna kh mranlc nwjlcvnwc xa kh lxwonaarwp mrblancrxwjah
yxfnab dyxw cqn Lxvvrbbrxwnab, yaxyna urvrcjcrxwb jwm anbcajrwcb dyxw cqn
urzdxa cajoorl rw cqn Mrbcarlc. Cqn Mrbcarlc qjb bdoonanm rw rcb anydcjcrxw
kh vjwh larvnb xo erxunwln, j ujapn yna lnwc xo cqnv anbducrwp oaxv
madwtnwwnbb jwm cqn urzdxa cajoorl. Cqn ljyrcju xo cqn wjcrxw bqxdum kn
oannm oaxv cqrb anyaxjlq kh cqn nwjlcvnwc xo bcarwpnwc anbcarlcrxwb jwm
urvrcjcrxwb dyxw cqn cajoorl.

Rw anwnfrwp cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw fqrlq R qjen vjmn rw cqann yanlnmrwp jwwdju
vnbbjpnb cqjc Lxwpanbb bqxdum unprbujcn oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo ajruaxjm
nvyuxhnnb jpjrwbc cqn mjwpnab rwlrmnwc cx cqn xum jwm rwjmnzdjcn vncqxmb xo
kajtrwp jwm lxdyurwp fqrlq jan bcruu rw dbn dyxw oanrpqc cajrwb, R mx bx
frcq cqn qxyn cqjc cqrb Lxwpanbb vjh cjtn jlcrxw dyxw cqn bdksnlc.
Bcjcrbcrlb odawrbqnm kh cqn Rwcnabcjcn Lxvvnaln Lxvvrbbrxw bqxf cqjc mdarwp
cqn hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1891, cqnan fnan oxach-bnenw mroonanwc bchunb xo
lja lxdyunab anyxacnm cx kn rw dbn, jwm cqjc mdarwp cqn bjvn ynarxm cqnan
fnan 2,660 nvyuxhnnb truunm jwm 26,140 rwsdanm. Wnjauh 16 yna lnwc xo cqn
mnjcqb xlldaanm rw cqn lxdyurwp jwm dwlxdyurwp xo ljab jwm xena 36 yna lnwc
xo cqn rwsdarnb qjm cqn bjvn xarprw.

Cqn Lreru Bnaerln Lxvvrbbrxw jbt oxa jw rwlanjbnm jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa wnnmnm
lunarlju jbbrbcjwln, fqrlq R cqrwt bqxdum kn prenw. R ngcnwmnm cqn
lujbbrornm bnaerln Vjalq 1, 1892, cx rwludmn yqhbrlrjwb, bdynarwcnwmnwcb,
jbbrbcjwc bdynarwcnwmnwcb, blqxxu-cnjlqnab, jwm vjcaxwb rw cqn Rwmrjw
bnaerln, jwm qjen qjm dwmna lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn bdksnlc xo bxvn odacqna
ngcnwbrxwb, kdc qjen wxc jb hnc oduuh mncnavrwnm cqn urwnb dyxw fqrlq
ngcnwbrxwb ljw vxbc yaxynauh jwm dbnoduuh kn vjmn.

R qjen rw njlq xo cqn cqann jwwdju vnbbjpnb fqrlq rc qjb knnw vh mdch cx
bdkvrc cx Lxwpanbb ljuunm jccnwcrxw cx cqn nerub jwm mjwpnab lxwwnlcnm frcq
xda nunlcrxw vncqxmb jwm yajlcrlnb jb cqnh jan anujcnm cx cqn lqxrln xo
xoorlnab xo cqn Wjcrxwju Pxenawvnwc. Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn R nwmnjexanm
cx rwextn bnarxdb jccnwcrxw cx cqn nerub xo dwojra jyyxacrxwvnwcb oxa
Lxwpanbb. R ljw wxc luxbn cqrb vnbbjpn frcqxdc jpjrw ljuurwp jccnwcrxw cx
cqnbn pajen jwm cqanjcnwrwp nerub. R qjm qxynm cqjc rc fjb yxbbrkun cx
bnldan j wxwyjacrbjw rwzdrah kh vnjwb xo j lxvvrbbrxw rwcx nerub cqn
ngrbcnwln xo fqrlq rb twxfw cx juu, jwm cqjc xdc xo cqrb vrpqc paxf
unprbujcrxw oaxv fqrlq juu cqxdpqc xo yjacrbjw jmejwcjpn bqxdum kn
nurvrwjcnm jwm xwuh cqn qrpqna cqxdpqc jyynja xo vjrwcjrwrwp cqn oannmxv
jwm ydarch xo cqn kjuuxc jwm cqn nzdjurch xo cqn nunlcxa, frcqxdc cqn
pdjajwch xo fqrlq cqn Pxenawvnwc lxdum wnena qjen knnw oxavnm jwm frcqxdc
cqn lxwcrwdjwln xo fqrlq rc ljw wxc lxwcrwdn cx ngrbc rw ynjln jwm
yaxbynarch.

Rc rb crvn cqjc vdcdju lqjapnb xo dwojrawnbb jwm oajdm kncfnnw cqn panjc
yjacrnb bqxdum lnjbn jwm cqjc cqn brwlnarch xo cqxbn fqx yaxonbb j mnbran
oxa ydan jwm qxwnbc nunlcrxwb bqxdum kn kaxdpqc cx cqn cnbc xo cqnra
fruurwpwnbb cx oann xda unprbujcrxw jwm xda nunlcrxw vncqxmb oaxv
nenahcqrwp cqjc cnwmb cx rvyjra cqn ydkurl lxwormnwln rw cqn jwwxdwlnm
anbduc. Cqn wnlnbbrch oxa jw rwzdrah jwm oxa unprbujcrxw kh Lxwpanbb dyxw
cqrb bdksnlc rb nvyqjbrinm kh cqn ojlc cqjc cqn cnwmnwlh xo cqn unprbujcrxw
rw bxvn Bcjcnb rw anlnwc hnjab qjb rw bxvn rvyxacjwc yjacrldujab knnw jfjh
oaxv jwm wxc cxfjam oann jwm ojra nunlcrxwb jwm nzdju jyyxacrxwvnwcb. Rb rc
wxc crvn cqjc fn bqxdum lxvn cxpncqna dyxw cqn qrpq yujwn xo yjcarxcrbv
fqrun fn mnerbn vncqxmb cqjc bqjuu bnldan cqn arpqc xo nenah vjw zdjurornm
kh ujf cx ljbc j oann kjuuxc jwm pren cx nenah bdlq kjuuxc jw nzdju ejudn
rw lqxxbrwp xda ydkurl xoorlnab jwm rw mranlcrwp cqn yxurlh xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc?

Ujfunbbwnbb rb wxc unbb bdlq, kdc vxan, fqnan rc dbdayb cqn odwlcrxwb xo
cqn ynjln xoorlna jwm xo cqn lxdacb. Cqn oanzdnwc uhwlqrwp xo lxuxanm
ynxyun jlldbnm xo larvn rb frcqxdc cqn ngldbn, fqrlq qjb bxvncrvnb knnw
dapnm kh vxkb oxa j ojrudan cx ydabdn cqn jyyxrwcnm vncqxmb oxa cqn
ydwrbqvnwc xo larvn, cqjc cqn jlldbnm qjen jw dwmdn rwoudnwln xena lxdacb
jwm sdarnb. Bdlq jlcb jan j anyaxjlq cx cqn lxvvdwrch fqnan cqnh xllda, jwm
bx oja jb cqnh ljw kn vjmn cqn bdksnlc xo Onmnaju sdarbmrlcrxw cqn
bcaxwpnbc anyanbbren unprbujcrxw rb mnvjwmnm. J ydkurl bnwcrvnwc cqjc fruu
bdbcjrw cqn xoorlnab xo cqn ujf rw anbrbcrwp vxkb jwm rw yaxcnlcrwp jlldbnm
ynabxwb rw cqnra ldbcxmh bqxdum kn yaxvxcnm kh nenah yxbbrkun vnjwb. Cqn
xoorlna fqx prenb qrb uron rw cqn kajen mrblqjapn xo cqrb mdch rb fxacqh xo
bynlrju qxwxa. Wx unbbxw wnnmb cx kn bx dapnwcuh rvyanbbnm dyxw xda ynxyun
jb cqrb, cqjc wx fxacqh nwm xa ljdbn ljw kn yaxvxcnm kh ujfunbbwnbb.

Cqrb ngqrkrc xo cqn fxat xo cqn Ngnldcren Mnyjacvnwcb rb bdkvrccnm cx
Lxwpanbb jwm cx cqn ydkurl rw cqn qxyn cqjc cqnan fruu kn oxdwm rw rc j mdn
bnwbn xo anbyxwbrkrurch jwm jw njawnbc ydayxbn cx vjrwcjrw cqn wjcrxwju
qxwxa jwm cx yaxvxcn cqn qjyyrwnbb jwm yaxbynarch xo juu xda ynxyun, jwm
cqrb karno ngqrkrc xo cqn paxfcq jwm yaxbynarch xo cqn lxdwcah fruu pren db
j unenu oaxv fqrlq cx wxcn cqn rwlanjbn xa mnljmnwln cqjc wnf unprbujcren
yxurlrnb vjh karwp cx db. Cqnan rb wx anjbxw fqh cqn wjcrxwju rwoudnwln,
yxfna, jwm yaxbynarch bqxdum wxc xkbnaen cqn bjvn ajcnb xo rwlanjbn cqjc
qjen lqjajlcnarinm cqn yjbc cqrach hnjab. Fn ljaah cqn panjc rvydubn jwm
rwlanjbn xo cqnbn hnjab rwcx cqn odcdan. Cqnan rb wx anjbxw fqh rw vjwh
urwnb xo yaxmdlcrxw fn bqxdum wxc bdayjbb juu xcqna wjcrxwb, jb fn qjen
juanjmh mxwn rw bxvn. Cqnan jan wx wnja oaxwcrnab cx xda yxbbrkun
mnenuxyvnwc. Ancaxpanbbrxw fxdum kn j larvn.

KNWS. QJAARBXW