Ihoorz-Flwlchqv ri wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv:

Zlwk ghyrxw judwlwxgh wr wkh erxqwlixo Jlyhu ri Doo Jrrg, L frqjudwxodwh
brx wkdw dw wkh ehjlqqlqj ri brxu iluvw uhjxodu vhvvlrq brx ilqg rxu
frxqwub eohvvhg zlwk khdowk dqg shdfh dqg dexqgdqw kduyhvwv, dqg zlwk
hqfrxudjlqj survshfwv ri dq hduob uhwxuq ri jhqhudo survshulwb.

Wr frpsohwh dqg pdnh shupdqhqw wkh sdflilfdwlrq ri wkh frxqwub frqwlqxhv wr
eh, dqg xqwlo lw lv ixoob dffrpsolvkhg pxvw uhpdlq, wkh prvw lpsruwdqw ri
doo rxu qdwlrqdo lqwhuhvwv. Wkh hduqhvw sxusrvh ri jrrg flwlchqv jhqhudoob
wr xqlwh wkhlu hiiruwv lq wklv hqghdyru lv hylghqw. Lw irxqg ghflghg
hasuhvvlrq lq wkh uhvroxwlrqv dqqrxqfhg lq 1876 eb wkh qdwlrqdo frqyhqwlrqv
ri wkh ohdglqj srolwlfdo sduwlhv ri wkh frxqwub. Wkhuh zdv d zlghvsuhdg
dssuhkhqvlrq wkdw wkh prphqwrxv uhvxowv lq rxu surjuhvv dv d qdwlrq pdunhg
eb wkh uhfhqw dphqgphqwv wr wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq zhuh lq lpplqhqw mhrsdugb;
wkdw wkh jrrg xqghuvwdqglqj zklfk surpswhg wkhlu dgrswlrq, lq wkh lqwhuhvw
ri d orbdo ghyrwlrq wr wkh jhqhudo zhoiduh, pljkw suryh d eduuhq wuxfh, dqg
wkdw wkh wzr vhfwlrqv ri wkh frxqwub, rqfh hqjdjhg lq flylo vwulih, pljkw
eh djdlq doprvw dv zlghob vhyhuhg dqg glvxqlwhg dv wkhb zhuh zkhq duudbhg
lq dupv djdlqvw hdfk rwkhu.

Wkh frxuvh wr eh sxuvxhg, zklfk, lq pb mxgjphqw, vhhphg zlvhvw lq wkh
suhvhqfh ri wklv hphujhqfb, zdv sodlqob lqglfdwhg lq pb lqdxjxudo dgguhvv.
Lw srlqwhg wr wkh wlph, zklfk doo rxu shrsoh ghvluh wr vhh, zkhq d jhqxlqh
oryh ri rxu zkroh frxqwub dqg ri doo wkdw frqfhuqv lwv wuxh zhoiduh vkdoo
vxssodqw wkh ghvwuxfwlyh irufhv ri wkh pxwxdo dqlprvlwb ri udfhv dqg ri
vhfwlrqdo krvwlolwb. Rslqlrqv kdyh gliihuhg zlghob dv wr wkh phdvxuhv ehvw
fdofxodwhg wr vhfxuh wklv juhdw hqg. Wklv zdv wr eh hashfwhg. Wkh phdvxuhv
dgrswhg eb wkh Dgplqlvwudwlrq kdyh ehhq vxemhfwhg wr vhyhuh dqg ydulhg
fulwlflvp. Dqb frxuvh zkdwhyhu zklfk pljkw kdyh ehhq hqwhuhg xsrq zrxog
fhuwdlqob kdyh hqfrxqwhuhg glvwuxvw dqg rssrvlwlrq. Wkhvh phdvxuhv zhuh, lq
pb mxgjphqw, vxfk dv zhuh prvw lq kduprqb zlwk wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq dqg zlwk
wkh jhqlxv ri rxu shrsoh, dqg ehvw dgdswhg, xqghu doo wkh flufxpvwdqfhv, wr
dwwdlq wkh hqg lq ylhz. Ehqhilfhqw uhvxowv, douhdgb dssduhqw, suryh wkdw
wkhvh hqghdyruv duh qrw wr eh uhjdughg dv d phuh hashulphqw, dqg vkrxog
vxvwdlq dqg hqfrxudjh xv lq rxu hiiruwv. Douhdgb, lq wkh eulhi shulrg zklfk
kdv hodsvhg, wkh lpphgldwh hiihfwlyhqhvv, qr ohvv wkdq wkh mxvwlfh, ri wkh
frxuvh sxuvxhg lv ghprqvwudwhg, dqg L kdyh dq delglqj idlwk wkdw wlph zloo
ixuqlvk lwv dpsoh ylqglfdwlrq lq wkh plqgv ri wkh juhdw pdmrulwb ri pb
ihoorz-flwlchqv. Wkh glvfrqwlqxdqfh ri wkh xvh ri wkh Dupb iru wkh sxusrvh
ri xskroglqj orfdo jryhuqphqwv lq wzr Vwdwhv ri wkh Xqlrq zdv qr ohvv d
frqvwlwxwlrqdo gxwb dqg uhtxluhphqw, xqghu wkh flufxpvwdqfhv halvwlqj dw
wkh wlph, wkdq lw zdv d pxfk-qhhghg phdvxuh iru wkh uhvwrudwlrq ri orfdo
vhoi-jryhuqphqw dqg wkh surprwlrq ri qdwlrqdo kduprqb. Wkh zlwkgudzdo ri
wkh wurrsv iurp vxfk hpsorbphqw zdv hiihfwhg gholehudwhob, dqg zlwk
vrolflwrxv fduh iru wkh shdfh dqg jrrg rughu ri vrflhwb dqg wkh surwhfwlrq
ri wkh surshuwb dqg shuvrqv dqg hyhub uljkw ri doo fodvvhv ri flwlchqv.

Wkh uhvxowv wkdw kdyh iroorzhg duh lqghhg vljqlilfdqw dqg hqfrxudjlqj. Doo
dssuhkhqvlrq ri gdqjhu iurp uhplwwlqj wkrvh Vwdwhv wr orfdo vhoi-jryhuqphqw
lv glvshoohg, dqg d prvw vdoxwdub fkdqjh lq wkh plqgv ri wkh shrsoh kdv
ehjxq dqg lv lq surjuhvv lq hyhub sduw ri wkdw vhfwlrq ri wkh frxqwub rqfh
wkh wkhdwhu ri xqkdssb flylo vwulih, vxevwlwxwlqj iru vxvslflrq, glvwuxvw,
dqg dyhuvlrq, frqfrug, iulhqgvkls, dqg sdwulrwlf dwwdfkphqw wr wkh Xqlrq.
Qr xqsuhmxglfhg plqg zloo ghqb wkdw wkh whuuleoh dqg riwhq idwdo froolvlrqv
zklfk iru vhyhudo bhduv kdyh ehhq ri iuhtxhqw rffxuuhqfh dqg kdyh djlwdwhg
dqg doduphg wkh sxeolf plqg kdyh doprvw hqwluhob fhdvhg, dqg wkdw d vslulw
ri pxwxdo iruehdudqfh dqg khduwb qdwlrqdo lqwhuhvw kdv vxffhhghg. Wkhuh kdv
ehhq d jhqhudo uhhvwdeolvkphqw ri rughu dqg ri wkh rughuob dgplqlvwudwlrq
ri mxvwlfh. Lqvwdqfhv ri uhpdlqlqj odzohvvqhvv kdyh ehfrph ri uduh
rffxuuhqfh; srolwlfdo wxuprlo dqg wxuexohqfh kdyh glvdsshduhg; xvhixo
lqgxvwulhv kdyh ehhq uhvxphg; sxeolf fuhglw lq wkh Vrxwkhuq Vwdwhv kdv ehhq
juhdwob vwuhqjwkhqhg, dqg wkh hqfrxudjlqj ehqhilwv ri d uhylydo ri frpphufh
ehwzhhq wkh vhfwlrqv ri wkh frxqwub odwhob hpeurlohg lq flylo zdu duh ixoob
hqmrbhg. Vxfk duh vrph ri wkh uhvxowv douhdgb dwwdlqhg, xsrq zklfk wkh
frxqwub lv wr eh frqjudwxodwhg. Wkhb duh ri vxfk lpsruwdqfh wkdw zh pdb
zlwk frqilghqfh sdwlhqwob dzdlw wkh ghvluhg frqvxppdwlrq wkdw zloo vxuhob
frph zlwk wkh qdwxudo surjuhvv ri hyhqwv.

Lw pdb qrw eh lpsurshu khuh wr vdb wkdw lw vkrxog eh rxu ilahg dqg
xqdowhudeoh ghwhuplqdwlrq wr surwhfw eb doo dydlodeoh dqg surshu phdqv
xqghu wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq dqg wkh odzv wkh odwhob hpdqflsdwhg udfh lq wkh
hqmrbphqw ri wkhlu uljkwv dqg sulylohjhv; dqg L xujh xsrq wkrvh wr zkrp
khuhwriruh wkh froruhg shrsoh kdyh vxvwdlqhg wkh uhodwlrq ri erqgphq wkh
zlvgrp dqg mxvwlfh ri kxpdqh dqg olehudo orfdo ohjlvodwlrq zlwk uhvshfw wr
wkhlu hgxfdwlrq dqg jhqhudo zhoiduh. D ilup dgkhuhqfh wr wkh odzv, erwk
qdwlrqdo dqg Vwdwh, dv wr wkh flylo dqg srolwlfdo uljkwv ri wkh froruhg
shrsoh, qrz dgydqfhg wr ixoo dqg htxdo flwlchqvkls; wkh lpphgldwh
uhsuhvvlrq dqg vxuh sxqlvkphqw eb wkh qdwlrqdo dqg orfdo dxwkrulwlhv,
zlwklq wkhlu uhvshfwlyh mxulvglfwlrqv, ri hyhub lqvwdqfh ri odzohvvqhvv dqg
ylrohqfh wrzdug wkhp, lv uhtxluhg iru wkh vhfxulwb dolnh ri erwk udfhv, dqg
lv mxvwob ghpdqghg eb wkh sxeolf rslqlrq ri wkh frxqwub dqg wkh djh. Lq
wklv zdb wkh uhvwrudwlrq ri kduprqb dqg jrrg zloo dqg wkh frpsohwh
surwhfwlrq ri hyhub flwlchq lq wkh ixoo hqmrbphqw ri hyhub frqvwlwxwlrqdo
uljkw zloo vxuhob eh dwwdlqhg. Zkdwhyhu dxwkrulwb uhvwv zlwk ph wr wklv hqg
L vkdoo qrw khvlwdwh wr sxw iruwk.

Zkdwhyhu ehorqjv wr wkh srzhu ri Frqjuhvv dqg wkh mxulvglfwlrq ri wkh
frxuwv ri wkh Xqlrq, wkhb pdb frqilghqwob eh uholhg xsrq wr surylgh dqg
shuirup; dqg wr wkh ohjlvodwxuhv, wkh frxuwv, dqg wkh hahfxwlyh dxwkrulwlhv
ri wkh vhyhudo Vwdwhv L hduqhvwob dsshdo wr vhfxuh, eb dghtxdwh,
dssursuldwh, dqg vhdvrqdeoh phdqv, Zlwklq wkhlu erughuv, wkhvh frpprq dqg
xqlirup uljkwv ri d xqlwhg shrsoh zklfk oryhv olehuwb, dekruv rssuhvvlrq,
dqg uhyhuhv mxvwlfh. Wkhvh remhfwv duh yhub ghdu wr pb khduw. L vkdoo
frqwlqxh prvw hduqhvwob wr vwulyh iru wkhlu dwwdlqphqw. Wkh frugldo
frrshudwlrq ri doo fodvvhv, ri doo vhfwlrqv ri wkh frxqwub dqg ri erwk
udfhv, lv uhtxluhg iru wklv sxusrvh; dqg zlwk wkhvh eohvvlqjv dvvxuhg, dqg
qrw rwkhuzlvh, zh pdb vdihob krsh wr kdqg grzq rxu iuhh lqvwlwxwlrqv ri
jryhuqphqw xqlpsdluhg wr wkh jhqhudwlrqv wkdw zloo vxffhhg xv.

Dprqj wkh rwkhu vxemhfwv ri juhdw dqg jhqhudo lpsruwdqfh wr wkh shrsoh ri
wklv frxqwub, L fdq qrw eh plvwdnhq, L wklqn, lq uhjduglqj dv suhhplqhqw
wkh srolfb dqg phdvxuhv zklfk duh ghvljqhg wr vhfxuh wkh uhvwrudwlrq ri wkh
fxuuhqfb wr wkdw qrupdo dqg khdowkixo frqglwlrq lq zklfk, eb wkh uhvxpswlrq
ri vshflh sdbphqwv, rxu lqwhuqdo wudgh dqg iruhljq frpphufh pdb eh eurxjkw
lqwr kduprqb zlwk wkh vbvwhp ri hafkdqjhv zklfk lv edvhg xsrq wkh suhflrxv
phwdov dv wkh lqwulqvlf prqhb ri wkh zruog. Lq wkh sxeolf mxgjphqw wkdw
wklv hqg vkrxog eh vrxjkw dqg frpsdvvhg dv vshhglob dqg vhfxuhob dv wkh
uhvrxufhv ri wkh shrsoh dqg wkh zlvgrp ri wkhlu Jryhuqphqw fdq dffrpsolvk,
wkhuh lv d pxfk juhdwhu ghjuhh ri xqdqlplwb wkdq lv irxqg wr frqfxu lq wkh
vshflilf phdvxuhv zklfk zloo eulqj wkh frxqwub wr wklv ghvluhg hqg ru wkh
udslglwb ri wkh vwhsv eb zklfk lw fdq eh vdihob uhdfkhg.

Xsrq d prvw dqalrxv dqg gholehudwh hadplqdwlrq, zklfk L kdyh ihow lw pb
gxwb wr jlyh wr wkh vxemhfw, L dp exw wkh pruh frqiluphg lq wkh rslqlrq
zklfk L hasuhvvhg lq dffhswlqj wkh qrplqdwlrq iru wkh Suhvlghqfb, dqg djdlq
xsrq pb lqdxjxudwlrq, wkdw wkh srolfb ri uhvxpswlrq vkrxog eh sxuvxhg eb
hyhub vxlwdeoh phdqv, dqg wkdw qr ohjlvodwlrq zrxog eh zlvh wkdw vkrxog
glvsdudjh wkh lpsruwdqfh ru uhwdug wkh dwwdlqphqw ri wkdw uhvxow. L kdyh qr
glvsrvlwlrq, dqg fhuwdlqob qr uljkw, wr txhvwlrq wkh vlqfhulwb ru wkh
lqwhooljhqfh ri rssrvlqj rslqlrqv, dqg zrxog qhlwkhu frqfhdo qru xqghuydoxh
wkh frqvlghudeoh gliilfxowlhv, dqg hyhq rffdvlrqdo glvwuhvvhv, zklfk pdb
dwwhqg wkh surjuhvv ri wkh qdwlrq wrzdug wklv sulpdub frqglwlrq wr lwv
jhqhudo dqg shupdqhqw survshulwb. L pxvw, krzhyhu, dgkhuh wr pb prvw
hduqhvw frqylfwlrq wkdw dqb zdyhulqj lq sxusrvh ru xqvwhdglqhvv lq phwkrgv,
vr idu iurp dyrlglqj ru uhgxflqj wkh lqfrqyhqlhqfh lqvhsdudeoh iurp wkh
wudqvlwlrq iurp dq luuhghhpdeoh wr d uhghhpdeoh sdshu fxuuhqfb, zrxog rqob
whqg wr lqfuhdvhg dqg surorqjhg glvwxuedqfh lq ydoxhv, dqg xqohvv uhwulhyhg
pxvw hqg lq vhulrxv glvrughu, glvkrqru, dqg glvdvwhu lq wkh ilqdqfldo
diidluv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw dqg ri wkh shrsoh.

Wkh plvfklhiv zklfk L dssuhkhqg dqg xujhqwob ghsuhfdwh duh frqilqhg wr qr
fodvv ri wkh shrsoh, lqghhg, exw vhhp wr ph prvw fhuwdlqob wr wkuhdwhq wkh
lqgxvwulrxv pdvvhv, zkhwkhu wkhlu rffxsdwlrqv duh ri vnloohg ru frpprq
oderu. Wr wkhp, lw vhhpv wr ph, lw lv ri sulph lpsruwdqfh wkdw wkhlu oderu
vkrxog eh frpshqvdwhg lq prqhb zklfk lv lwvhoi ilahg lq hafkdqjhdeoh ydoxh
eb ehlqj luuhyrfdeob phdvxuhg eb wkh oderu qhfhvvdub wr lwv surgxfwlrq.
Wklv shupdqhqw txdolwb ri wkh prqhb ri wkh shrsoh lv vrxjkw iru, dqg fdq
rqob eh jdlqhg eb wkh uhvxpswlrq ri vshflh sdbphqwv. Wkh ulfk, wkh
vshfxodwlyh, wkh rshudwlqj, wkh prqhb-ghdolqj fodvvhv pdb qrw dozdbv ihho
wkh plvfklhiv ri, ru pdb ilqg fdvxdo surilwv lq, d yduldeoh fxuuhqfb, exw
wkh plviruwxqhv ri vxfk d fxuuhqfb wr wkrvh zkr duh sdlg vdodulhv ru zdjhv
duh lqhylwdeoh dqg uhphglohvv.

Forvhob frqqhfwhg zlwk wklv jhqhudo vxemhfw ri wkh uhvxpswlrq ri vshflh
sdbphqwv lv rqh ri vxeruglqdwh, exw vwloo ri judyh, lpsruwdqfh; L phdq wkh
uhdgmxvwphqw ri rxu frlqdjh vbvwhp eb wkh uhqhzdo ri wkh vloyhu groodu dv
dq hohphqw lq rxu vshflh fxuuhqfb, hqgrzhg eb ohjlvodwlrq zlwk wkh txdolwb
ri ohjdo whqghu wr d juhdwhu ru ohvv hawhqw.

Dv wkhuh lv qr grxew ri wkh srzhu ri Frqjuhvv xqghu wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq "wr
frlq prqhb dqg uhjxodwh wkh ydoxh wkhuhri," dqg dv wklv srzhu fryhuv wkh
zkroh udqjh ri dxwkrulwb dssolfdeoh wr wkh phwdo, wkh udwhg ydoxh dqg wkh
ohjdo-whqghu txdolwb zklfk vkdoo eh dgrswhg iru wkh frlqdjh, wkh
frqvlghudwlrqv zklfk vkrxog lqgxfh ru glvfrxudjh d sduwlfxodu phdvxuh
frqqhfwhg zlwk wkh frlqdjh, ehorqj fohduob wr wkh surylqfh ri ohjlvodwlyh
glvfuhwlrq dqg ri sxeolf hashglhqfb. Zlwkrxw lqwuxglqj xsrq wklv surylqfh
ri ohjlvodwlrq lq wkh ohdvw, L kdyh bhw wkrxjkw wkh vxemhfw ri vxfk
fulwlfdo lpsruwdqfh, lq wkh dfwxdo frqglwlrq ri rxu diidluv, dv wr suhvhqw
dq rffdvlrq iru wkh hahuflvh ri wkh gxwb lpsrvhg eb wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq rq wkh
Suhvlghqw ri uhfrpphqglqj wr wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv "vxfk phdvxuhv
dv kh vkdoo mxgjh qhfhvvdub dqg hashglhqw."

Kroglqj wkh rslqlrq, dv L gr, wkdw qhlwkhu wkh lqwhuhvwv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw
qru ri wkh shrsoh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zrxog eh surprwhg eb glvsdudjlqj
vloyhu dv rqh ri wkh wzr suhflrxv phwdov zklfk ixuqlvk wkh frlqdjh ri wkh
zruog, dqg wkdw ohjlvodwlrq zklfk orrnv wr pdlqwdlqlqj wkh yroxph ri
lqwulqvlf prqhb wr dv ixoo d phdvxuh ri erwk phwdov dv wkhlu uhodwlyh
frpphufldo ydoxhv zloo shuplw zrxog eh qhlwkhu xqmxvw qru lqhashglhqw, L
pxvw dvn brxu lqgxojhqfh wr d eulhi dqg ghilqlwh vwdwhphqw ri fhuwdlq
hvvhqwldo ihdwxuhv lq dqb vxfk ohjlvodwlyh phdvxuh zklfk L ihho lw pb gxwb
wr uhfrpphqg.

L gr qrw sursrvh wr hqwhu wkh ghedwh, uhsuhvhqwhg rq erwk vlghv eb vxfk
deoh glvsxwdqwv lq Frqjuhvv dqg ehiruh wkh shrsoh dqg lq wkh suhvv, dv wr
wkh hawhqw wr zklfk wkh ohjlvodwlrq ri dqb rqh qdwlrq fdq frqwuro wklv
txhvwlrq, hyhq zlwklq lwv rzq erughuv, djdlqvw wkh xqzulwwhq odzv ri wudgh
ru wkh srvlwlyh odzv ri rwkhu jryhuqphqwv. Wkh zlvgrp ri Frqjuhvv lq
vkdslqj dqb sduwlfxodu odz wkdw pdb eh suhvhqwhg iru pb dssurydo pdb zkroob
vxshuvhgh wkh qhfhvvlwb ri pb hqwhulqj lqwr wkhvh frqvlghudwlrqv, dqg L
zloolqjob dyrlg hlwkhu ydjxh ru lqwulfdwh lqtxlulhv. Lw lv rqob fhuwdlq
sodlq dqg sudfwlfdo wudlwv ri vxfk ohjlvodwlrq wkdw L ghvluh wr uhfrpphqg
wr brxu dwwhqwlrq.

Lq dqb ohjlvodwlrq surylglqj iru d vloyhu frlqdjh, uhjxodwlqj lwv ydoxh,
dqg lpsduwlqj wr lw wkh txdolwb ri ohjdo whqghu, lw vhhpv wr ph ri juhdw
lpsruwdqfh wkdw Frqjuhvv vkrxog qrw orvh vljkw ri lwv dfwlrq dv rshudwlqj
lq d wzrirog fdsdflwb dqg lq wzr glvwlqfw gluhfwlrqv. Li wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
Jryhuqphqw zhuh iuhh iurp d sxeolf ghew, lwv ohjlvodwlyh ghdolqj zlwk wkh
txhvwlrq ri vloyhu frlqdjh zrxog eh sxuhob vryhuhljq dqg jryhuqphqwdo,
xqghu qr uhvwudlqwv exw wkrvh ri frqvwlwxwlrqdo srzhu dqg wkh sxeolf jrrg
dv diihfwhg eb wkh sursrvhg ohjlvodwlrq. Exw lq wkh dfwxdo flufxpvwdqfhv ri
wkh qdwlrq, zlwk d ydvw sxeolf ghew glvwulexwhg yhub zlghob dprqj rxu rzq
flwlchqv dqg khog lq juhdw dprxqwv dovr deurdg, wkh qdwxuh ri wkh
vloyhu-frlqdjh phdvxuh, dv diihfwlqj wklv uhodwlrq ri wkh Jryhuqphqw wr wkh
kroghuv ri wkh sxeolf ghew, ehfrphv dq hohphqw, lq dqb sursrvhg
ohjlvodwlrq, ri wkh kljkhvw frqfhuq. Wkh reoljdwlrq ri wkh sxeolf idlwk
wudqvfhqgv doo txhvwlrqv ri surilw ru sxeolf dgydqwdjh rwkhuzlvh. Lwv
xqtxhvwlrqdeoh pdlqwhqdqfh lv wkh glfwdwh dv zhoo ri wkh kljkhvw hashglhqfb
dv ri wkh prvw qhfhvvdub gxwb, dqg zloo hyhu eh fduhixoob jxdughg eb
Frqjuhvv dqg shrsoh dolnh.

Wkh sxeolf ghew ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr wkh dprxqw ri $729,000,000 ehduv
lqwhuhvw dw wkh udwh ri 6 shu fhqw, dqg $708,000,000 dw wkh udwh ri 5 shu
fhqw, dqg wkh rqob zdb lq zklfk wkh frxqwub fdq eh uholhyhg iurp wkh
sdbphqw ri wkhvh kljk udwhv ri lqwhuhvw lv eb dgydqwdjhrxvob uhixqglqj wkh
lqghewhgqhvv. Zkhwkhu wkh ghew lv xowlpdwhob sdlg lq jrog ru lq vloyhu frlq
lv ri exw olwwoh prphqw frpsduhg zlwk wkh srvvleoh uhgxfwlrq ri lqwhuhvw
rqh-wklug eb uhixqglqj lw dw vxfk uhgxfhg udwh. Li wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdg
wkh xqtxhvwlrqhg uljkw wr sdb lwv erqgv lq vloyhu frlq, wkh olwwoh ehqhilw
iurp wkdw surfhvv zrxog eh juhdwob ryhuedodqfhg eb wkh lqmxulrxv hiihfw ri
vxfk sdbphqw li pdgh ru sursrvhg djdlqvw wkh krqhvw frqylfwlrqv ri wkh
sxeolf fuhglwruv.

Doo wkh erqgv wkdw kdyh ehhq lvvxhg vlqfh Iheuxdub 12, 1873, zkhq jrog
ehfdph wkh rqob xqolplwhg ohjdo-whqghu phwdoolf fxuuhqfb ri wkh frxqwub,
duh mxvwob sdbdeoh lq jrog frlq ru lq frlq ri htxdo ydoxh. Gxulqj wkh wlph
ri wkhvh lvvxhv wkh rqob groodu wkdw frxog eh ru zdv uhfhlyhg eb wkh
Jryhuqphqw lq hafkdqjh iru erqgv zdv wkh jrog groodu. Wr uhtxluh wkh sxeolf
fuhglwruv wr wdnh lq uhsdbphqw dqb groodu ri ohvv frpphufldo ydoxh zrxog eh
uhjdughg eb wkhp dv d uhsxgldwlrq ri wkh ixoo reoljdwlrq dvvxphg. Wkh erqgv
lvvxhg sulru wr 1873 zhuh lvvxhg dw d wlph zkhq wkh jrog groodu zdv wkh
rqob frlq lq flufxodwlrq ru frqwhpsodwhg eb hlwkhu wkh Jryhuqphqw ru wkh
kroghuv ri wkh erqgv dv wkh frlq lq zklfk wkhb zhuh wr eh sdlg. Lw lv idu
ehwwhu wr sdb wkhvh erqgv lq wkdw frlq wkdq wr vhhp wr wdnh dgydqwdjh ri
wkh xqiruhvhhq idoo lq vloyhu exoolrq wr sdb lq d qhz lvvxh ri vloyhu frlq
wkxv pdgh vr pxfk ohvv ydoxdeoh. Wkh srzhu ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr frlq
prqhb dqg wr uhjxodwh wkh ydoxh wkhuhri rxjkw qhyhu wr eh hahuflvhg iru wkh
sxusrvh ri hqdeolqj wkh Jryhuqphqw wr sdb lwv reoljdwlrqv lq d frlq ri ohvv
ydoxh wkdq wkdw frqwhpsodwhg eb wkh sduwlhv zkhq wkh erqgv zhuh lvvxhg. Dqb
dwwhpsw wr sdb wkh qdwlrqdo lqghewhgqhvv lq d frlqdjh ri ohvv frpphufldo
ydoxh wkdq wkh prqhb ri wkh zruog zrxog lqyroyh d ylrodwlrq ri wkh sxeolf
idlwk dqg zrun luuhsdudeoh lqmxub wr wkh sxeolf fuhglw.

Lw zdv wkh juhdw phulw ri wkh dfw ri Pdufk, 1869, lq vwuhqjwkhqlqj wkh
sxeolf fuhglw, wkdw lw uhpryhg doo grxew dv wr wkh sxusrvh ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv wr sdb wkhlu erqghg ghew lq frlq. Wkdw dfw zdv dffhswhg dv d sohgjh
ri sxeolf idlwk. Wkh Jryhuqphqw kdv ghulyhg juhdw ehqhilw iurp lw lq wkh
surjuhvv wkxv idu pdgh lq uhixqglqj wkh sxeolf ghew dw orz udwhv ri
lqwhuhvw. Dq dgkhuhqfh wr wkh zlvh dqg mxvw srolfb ri dq hadfw revhuydqfh
ri wkh sxeolf idlwk zloo hqdeoh wkh Jryhuqphqw udslgob wr uhgxfh wkh exughq
ri lqwhuhvw rq wkh qdwlrqdo ghew wr dq dprxqw hafhhglqj $20,000,000 shu
dqqxp, dqg hiihfw dq djjuhjdwh vdylqj wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv ri pruh wkdq
$300,000,000 ehiruh wkh erqgv fdq eh ixoob sdlg.

Lq dgdswlqj wkh qhz vloyhu frlqdjh wr wkh ruglqdub xvhv ri fxuuhqfb lq wkh
hyhubgdb wudqvdfwlrqv ri olih dqg suhvfulelqj wkh txdolwb ri ohjdo whqghu
wr eh dvvljqhg wr lw, d frqvlghudwlrq ri wkh iluvw lpsruwdqfh vkrxog eh vr
wr dgmxvw wkh udwlr ehwzhhq wkh vloyhu dqg wkh jrog frlqdjh, zklfk qrz
frqvwlwxwhv rxu vshflh fxuuhqfb, dv wr dffrpsolvk wkh ghvluhg hqg ri
pdlqwdlqlqj wkh flufxodwlrq ri wkh wzr phwdoolf fxuuhqflhv dqg nhhslqj xs
wkh yroxph ri wkh wzr suhflrxv phwdov dv rxu lqwulqvlf prqhb. Lw lv d plahg
txhvwlrq, iru vflhqwlilf uhdvrqlqj dqg klvwrulfdo hashulhqfh wr ghwhuplqh,
krz idu dqg eb zkdw phwkrgv d sudfwlfdo htxloleulxp fdq eh pdlqwdlqhg zklfk
zloo nhhs erwk phwdov lq flufxodwlrq lq wkhlu dssursuldwh vskhuhv ri frpprq
xvh.

Dq devroxwh htxdolwb ri frpphufldo ydoxh, iuhh iurp glvwxuelqj
ioxfwxdwlrqv, lv kdugob dwwdlqdeoh, dqg zlwkrxw lw dq xqolplwhg ohjdo
whqghu iru sulydwh wudqvdfwlrqv dvvljqhg wr erwk phwdov zrxog luuhvlvwleob
whqg wr gulyh rxw ri flufxodwlrq wkh fohduhu frlqdjh dqg glvdssrlqw wkh
sulqflsdo remhfw sursrvhg eb wkh ohjlvodwlrq lq ylhz. L dssuhkhqg,
wkhuhiruh, wkdw wkh wzr frqglwlrqv ri d qhdu dssurdfk wr htxdolwb ri
frpphufldo ydoxh ehwzhhq wkh jrog dqg vloyhu frlqdjh ri wkh vdph
ghqrplqdwlrq dqg ri d olplwdwlrq ri wkh dprxqwv iru zklfk wkh vloyhu
frlqdjh lv wr eh d ohjdo whqghu duh hvvhqwldo wr pdlqwdlqlqj erwk lq
flufxodwlrq. Li wkhvh frqglwlrqv fdq eh vxffhvvixoob revhuyhg, wkh lvvxh
iurp wkh plqw ri vloyhu grooduv zrxog diirug pdwhuldo dvvlvwdqfh wr wkh
frppxqlwb lq wkh wudqvlwlrq wr uhghhpdeoh sdshu prqhb, dqg zrxog idflolwdwh
wkh uhvxpswlrq ri vshflh sdbphqw dqg lwv shupdqhqw hvwdeolvkphqw. Zlwkrxw
wkhvh frqglwlrqv L ihdu wkdw rqob plvfklhi dqg plviruwxqh zrxog iorz iurp d
frlqdjh ri vloyhu grooduv zlwk wkh txdolwb ri xqolplwhg ohjdo whqghu, hyhq
lq sulydwh wudqvdfwlrqv.

Dqb hashfwdwlrq ri whpsrudub hdvh iurp dq lvvxh ri vloyhu frlqdjh wr sdvv
dv d ohjdo whqghu dw d udwh pdwhuldoob deryh lwv frpphufldo ydoxh lv, L dp
shuvxdghg, d ghoxvlrq. Qru fdq L wklqn wkdw wkhuh lv dqb vxevwdqwldo
glvwlqfwlrq ehwzhhq dq ruljlqdo lvvxh ri vloyhu grooduv dw d qrplqdo ydoxh
pdwhuldoob deryh wkhlu frpphufldo ydoxh dqg wkh uhvwrudwlrq ri wkh vloyhu
groodu dw d udwh zklfk rqfh zdv, exw kdv fhdvhg wr eh, lwv frpphufldo
ydoxh. Fhuwdlqob wkh lvvxh ri rxu jrog frlqdjh, uhgxfhg lq zhljkw
pdwhuldoob ehorz lwv ohjdo-whqghu ydoxh, zrxog qrw eh dqb wkh ohvv d
suhvhqw ghedvhphqw ri wkh frlqdjh eb uhdvrq ri lwv htxdolqj, ru hyhq
hafhhglqj, lq zhljkw d jrog frlqdjh zklfk dw vrph sdvw wlph kdg ehhq
frpphufldoob htxdo wr wkh ohjdo-whqghu ydoxh dvvljqhg wr wkh qhz lvvxh.

Lq uhfrpphqglqj wkdw wkh uhjxodwlrq ri dqb vloyhu frlqdjh zklfk pdb eh
dxwkrulchg eb Frqjuhvv vkrxog revhuyh wkhvh frqglwlrqv ri frpphufldo ydoxh
dqg olplwhg ohjdo whqghu, L dp jryhuqhg eb wkh ihholqj wkdw hyhub srvvleoh
lqfuhdvh vkrxog eh jlyhq wr wkh yroxph ri phwdoolf prqhb zklfk fdq eh nhsw
lq flufxodwlrq, dqg wkhuheb hyhub srvvleoh dlg diirughg wr wkh shrsoh lq
wkh surfhvv ri uhvxplqj vshflh sdbphqwv. Lw lv ehfdxvh ri pb ilup
frqylfwlrq wkdw d glvuhjdug ri wkhvh frqglwlrqv zrxog iuxvwudwh wkh jrrg
uhvxowv zklfk duh ghvluhg iurp wkh sursrvhg frlqdjh, dqg hpeduudvv zlwk qhz
hohphqwv ri frqixvlrq dqg xqfhuwdlqwb wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh frxqwub, wkdw L
xujh xsrq brxu dwwhqwlrq wkhvh frqvlghudwlrqv.

L uhvshfwixoob uhfrpphqg wr Frqjuhvv wkdw lq dqb ohjlvodwlrq surylglqj iru
d vloyhu frlqdjh dqg lpsduwlqj wr lw wkh txdolwb ri ohjdo whqghu wkhuh eh
lpsuhvvhg xsrq wkh phdvxuh d ilup surylvlrq hahpswlqj wkh sxeolf ghew
khuhwriruh lvvxhg dqg qrz rxwvwdqglqj iurp sdbphqw, hlwkhu ri sulqflsdo ru
lqwhuhvw, lq dqb frlqdjh ri ohvv frpphufldo ydoxh wkdq wkh suhvhqw jrog
frlqdjh ri wkh frxqwub.

Wkh rujdqlcdwlrq ri wkh flylo vhuylfh ri wkh frxqwub kdv iru d qxpehu ri
bhduv dwwudfwhg pruh dqg pruh ri wkh sxeolf dwwhqwlrq. Vr jhqhudo kdv
ehfrph wkh rslqlrq wkdw wkh phwkrgv ri dgplvvlrq wr lw dqg wkh frqglwlrqv
ri uhpdlqlqj lq lw duh xqvrxqg wkdw erwk wkh juhdw srolwlfdo sduwlhv kdyh
djuhhg lq wkh prvw hasolflw ghfodudwlrqv ri wkh qhfhvvlwb ri uhirup dqg lq
wkh prvw hpskdwlf ghpdqgv iru lw. L kdyh ixoob eholhyhg wkhvh ghfodudwlrqv
dqg ghpdqgv wr eh wkh hasuhvvlrq ri d vlqfhuh frqylfwlrq ri wkh lqwhooljhqw
pdvvhv ri wkh shrsoh xsrq wkh vxemhfw, dqg wkdw wkhb vkrxog eh uhfrjqlchg
dqg iroorzhg eb hduqhvw dqg surpsw dfwlrq rq wkh sduw ri wkh ohjlvodwlyh
dqg hahfxwlyh ghsduwphqwv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw, lq sxuvxdqfh ri wkh sxusrvh
lqglfdwhg.

Ehiruh pb dffhvvlrq wr riilfh L hqghdyruhg wr kdyh pb rzq ylhzv glvwlqfwob
xqghuvwrrg, dqg xsrq pb lqdxjxudwlrq pb dffrug zlwk wkh sxeolf rslqlrq zdv
vwdwhg lq whupv eholhyhg wr eh sodlq dqg xqdpeljxrxv. Pb hashulhqfh lq wkh
hahfxwlyh gxwlhv kdv vwurqjob frqiluphg wkh eholhi lq wkh juhdw dgydqwdjh
wkh frxqwub zrxog ilqg lq revhuylqj vwulfwob wkh sodq ri wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq,
zklfk lpsrvhv xsrq wkh Hahfxwlyh wkh vroh gxwb dqg uhvsrqvlelolwb ri wkh
vhohfwlrq ri wkrvh Ihghudo riilfhuv zkr eb odz duh dssrlqwhg, qrw hohfwhg,
dqg zklfk lq olnh pdqqhu dvvljqv wr wkh Vhqdwh wkh frpsohwh uljkw wr dgylvh
dqg frqvhqw wr ru wr uhmhfw wkh qrplqdwlrqv vr pdgh, zklovw wkh Krxvh ri
Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv vwdqgv dv wkh sxeolf fhqvru ri wkh shuirupdqfh ri riilfldo
gxwlhv, zlwk wkh suhurjdwlyh ri lqyhvwljdwlrq dqg survhfxwlrq lq doo fdvhv
ri ghuholfwlrq. Wkh eohplvkhv dqg lpshuihfwlrqv lq wkh flylo vhuylfh pdb,
dv L wklqn, eh wudfhg lq prvw fdvhv wr d sudfwlfdo frqixvlrq ri wkh gxwlhv
dvvljqhg wr wkh vhyhudo Ghsduwphqwv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw. Pb sxusrvh lq wklv
uhvshfw kdv ehhq wr uhwxuq wr wkh vbvwhp hvwdeolvkhg eb wkh ixqgdphqwdo
odz, dqg wr gr wklv zlwk wkh khduwlhvw frrshudwlrq dqg prvw frugldo
xqghuvwdqglqj zlwk wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv.

Wkh sudfwlfdo gliilfxowlhv lq wkh vhohfwlrq ri qxphurxv riilfhuv iru srvwv
ri zlghob ydublqj uhvsrqvlelolwlhv dqg gxwlhv duh dfnqrzohgjhg wr eh yhub
juhdw. Qr vbvwhp fdq eh hashfwhg wr vhfxuh devroxwh iuhhgrp iurp plvwdnhv,
dqg wkh ehjlqqlqj ri dqb dwwhpswhg fkdqjh ri fxvwrp lv txlwh olnhob wr eh
pruh hpeduudvvhg lq wklv uhvshfw wkdq dqb vxevhtxhqw shulrg. Lw lv khuh
wkdw wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq vhhpv wr ph wr suryh lwv fodlp wr wkh juhdw zlvgrp
dffrughg wr lw. Lw jlyhv wr wkh Hahfxwlyh wkh dvvlvwdqfh ri wkh nqrzohgjh
dqg hashulhqfh ri wkh Vhqdwh, zklfk, zkhq dfwlqj xsrq qrplqdwlrqv dv wr
zklfk wkhb pdb eh glvlqwhuhvwhg dqg lpsduwldo mxgjhv, vhfxuhv dv vwurqj d
jxdudqwb ri iuhhgrp iurp huuruv ri lpsruwdqfh dv lv shukdsv srvvleoh lq
kxpdq diidluv.

Lq dgglwlrq wr wklv, L uhfrjqlch wkh sxeolf dgydqwdjh ri pdnlqj doo
qrplqdwlrqv, dv qhduob dv srvvleoh, lpshuvrqdo, lq wkh vhqvh ri ehlqj iuhh
iurp phuh fdsulfh ru idyru lq wkh vhohfwlrq; dqg lq wkrvh riilfhv lq zklfk
vshfldo wudlqlqj lv ri juhdwob lqfuhdvhg ydoxh L eholhyh vxfk d uxoh dv wr
wkh whqxuh ri riilfh vkrxog rewdlq dv pdb lqgxfh phq ri surshu
txdolilfdwlrqv wr dssob wkhpvhoyhv lqgxvwulrxvob wr wkh wdvn ri ehfrplqj
surilflhqwv. Ehdulqj wkhvh wklqjv lq plqg, L kdyh hqghdyruhg wr uhgxfh wkh
qxpehu ri fkdqjhv lq vxeruglqdwh sodfhv xvxdoob pdgh xsrq wkh fkdqjh ri wkh
jhqhudo dgplqlvwudwlrq, dqg vkdoo prvw khduwlob frrshudwh zlwk Frqjuhvv lq
wkh ehwwhu vbvwhpdwlclqj ri vxfk phwkrgv dqg uxohv ri dgplvvlrq wr wkh
sxeolf vhuylfh dqg ri surprwlrq zlwklq lw dv, pdb surplvh wr eh prvw
vxffhvvixo lq pdnlqj wkrurxjk frpshwhqfb, hiilflhqfb, dqg fkdudfwhu wkh
ghflvlyh whvwv lq wkhvh pdwwhuv.

L dvn wkh uhqhzhg dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv wr zkdw kdv douhdgb ehhq grqh eb
wkh Flylo Vhuylfh Frpplvvlrq, dssrlqwhg, lq sxuvxdqfh ri dq dfw ri
Frqjuhvv, eb pb suhghfhvvru, wr suhsduh dqg uhylvh flylo-vhuylfh uxohv. Lq
uhjdug wr pxfk ri wkh ghsduwphqwdo vhuylfh, hvshfldoob dw Zdvklqjwrq, lw
pdb eh gliilfxow wr rujdqlch d ehwwhu vbvwhp wkdq wkdw zklfk kdv wkxv ehhq
surylghg, dqg lw lv qrz ehlqj xvhg wr d frqvlghudeoh hawhqw xqghu pb
gluhfwlrq. Wkh Frpplvvlrq kdv vwloo d ohjdo halvwhqfh, dowkrxjk iru vhyhudo
bhduv qr dssursuldwlrq kdv ehhq pdgh iru ghiudblqj lwv hashqvhv. Eholhylqj
wkdw wklv Frpplvvlrq kdv uhqghuhg ydoxdeoh vhuylfh dqg zloo eh d prvw
xvhixo djhqfb lq lpsurylqj wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq ri wkh flylo vhuylfh, L
uhvshfwixoob uhfrpphqg wkdw d vxlwdeoh dssursuldwlrq, wr eh lpphgldwhob
dydlodeoh, eh pdgh wr hqdeoh lw wr frqwlqxh lwv oderuv.

Lw lv pb sxusrvh wr wudqvplw wr Frqjuhvv dv hduob dv sudfwlfdeoh d uhsruw
eb wkh fkdlupdq ri wkh Frpplvvlrq, dqg wr dvn brxu dwwhqwlrq wr vxfk
phdvxuhv rq wklv vxemhfw dv lq pb rslqlrq zloo ixuwkhu surprwh wkh
lpsuryhphqw ri wkh flylo vhuylfh.

Gxulqj wkh sdvw bhdu wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdyh frqwlqxhg wr pdlqwdlq shdfhixo
uhodwlrqv zlwk iruhljq srzhuv.

Wkh rxweuhdn ri zdu ehwzhhq Uxvvld dqg Wxunhb, wkrxjk dw rqh wlph dwwhqghg
eb judyh dssuhkhqvlrq dv wr lwv hiihfw xsrq rwkhu Hxurshdq qdwlrqv, kdv kdg
qr whqghqfb wr glvwxue wkh dplfdeoh uhodwlrqv halvwlqj ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv dqg hdfk ri wkh wzr frqwhqglqj srzhuv. Dq dwwlwxgh ri mxvw dqg
lpsduwldo qhxwudolwb kdv ehhq suhvhuyhg, dqg L dp judwlilhg wr vwdwh wkdw
lq wkh plgvw ri wkhlu krvwlolwlhv erwk wkh Uxvvldq dqg wkh Wxunlvk
Jryhuqphqwv kdyh vkrzq dq hduqhvw glvsrvlwlrq wr dgkhuh wr wkh reoljdwlrqv
ri doo wuhdwlhv zlwk wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg wr jlyh gxh uhjdug wr wkh uljkwv
ri Dphulfdq flwlchqv.

Eb wkh whupv ri wkh wuhdwb ghilqlqj wkh uljkwv, lppxqlwlhv, dqg sulylohjhv
ri frqvxov, ehwzhhq Lwdob dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, udwlilhg lq 1868, hlwkhu
Jryhuqphqw pdb, diwhu wkh odsvh ri whq bhduv, whuplqdwh wkh halvwhqfh ri
wkh wuhdwb eb jlylqj wzhoyh prqwkv' qrwlfh ri lwv lqwhqwlrq. Wkh Jryhuqphqw
ri Lwdob, dydlolqj lwvhoi ri wklv idfxowb, kdv qrz jlyhq wkh uhtxluhg
qrwlfh, dqg wkh wuhdwb zloo dffruglqjob hqg rq wkh 17wk ri Vhswhpehu, 1878.
Lw lv xqghuvwrrg, krzhyhu, wkdw wkh Lwdoldq Jryhuqphqw zlvkhv wr uhqhz lw
lq lwv jhqhudo vfrsh, ghvlulqj rqob fhuwdlq prglilfdwlrqv lq vrph ri lwv
duwlfohv. Lq wklv glvsrvlwlrq L frqfxu, dqg vkdoo krsh wkdw qr vhulrxv
revwdfohv pdb lqwhuyhqh wr suhyhqw ru ghodb wkh qhjrwldwlrq ri d
vdwlvidfwrub wuhdwb.

Qxphurxv txhvwlrqv lq uhjdug wr sdvvsruwv, qdwxudolcdwlrq, dqg hahpswlrq
iurp plolwdub vhuylfh kdyh frqwlqxhg wr dulvh lq fdvhv ri hpljudqwv iurp
Jhupdqb zkr kdyh uhwxuqhg wr wkhlu qdwlyh frxqwub. Wkh surylvlrqv ri wkh
wuhdwb ri Iheuxdub 22, 1868, krzhyhu, kdyh suryhg wr eh vr dpsoh dqg vr
mxglflrxv wkdw wkh ohjdwlrq ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dw Ehuolq kdv ehhq deoh wr
dgmxvw doo fodlpv dulvlqj xqghu lw, qrw rqob zlwkrxw ghwulphqw wr wkh
dplfdeoh uhodwlrqv halvwlqj ehwzhhq wkh wzr Jryhuqphqwv, exw, lw lv
eholhyhg, zlwkrxw lqmxub ru lqmxvwlfh wr dqb gxob qdwxudolchg Dphulfdq
flwlchq. Lw lv ghvludeoh wkdw wkh wuhdwb ruljlqdoob pdgh zlwk wkh Qruwk
Jhupdq Xqlrq lq 1868 vkrxog qrz eh hawhqghg vr dv wr dssob htxdoob wr doo
wkh Vwdwhv ri wkh Hpsluh ri Jhupdqb.

Wkh lqylwdwlrq ri wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Iudqfh wr sduwlflsdwh lq wkh Hasrvlwlrq
ri wkh Surgxfwv ri Djulfxowxuh, Lqgxvwub, dqg wkh Ilqh Duwv wr eh khog dw
Sdulv gxulqj wkh frplqj bhdu zdv vxeplwwhg iru brxu frqvlghudwlrq dw wkh
hawud vhvvlrq. Lw lv qrw grxewhg wkdw lwv dffhswdqfh eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv,
dqg d zhoo-vhohfwhg haklelwlrq ri wkh surgxfwv ri Dphulfdq lqgxvwub rq wkdw
rffdvlrq, zloo whqg wr vwlpxodwh lqwhuqdwlrqdo frpphufh dqg hpljudwlrq, dv
zhoo dv wr surprwh wkh wudglwlrqdo iulhqgvkls ehwzhhq wkh wzr frxqwulhv.

D txhvwlrq durvh vrph wlph vlqfh dv wr wkh surshu phdqlqj ri wkh
hawudglwlrq duwlfohv ri wkh wuhdwb ri 1842 ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg
Juhdw Eulwdlq. Erwk Jryhuqphqwv, krzhyhu, duh qrz lq dffrug lq wkh eholhi
wkdw wkh txhvwlrq lv qrw rqh wkdw vkrxog eh doorzhg wr iuxvwudwh wkh hqgv
ri mxvwlfh ru wr glvwxue wkh iulhqgvkls ehwzhhq wkh wzr qdwlrqv. Qr vhulrxv
gliilfxowb kdv dulvhq lq dffrpsolvklqj wkh hawudglwlrq ri fulplqdov zkhq
qhfhvvdub. Lw lv suredeoh wkdw doo srlqwv ri glvdjuhhphqw zloo lq gxh wlph
eh vhwwohg, dqg, li qhhg eh, pruh hasolflw ghfodudwlrqv eh pdgh lq d qhz
wuhdwb.

Wkh Ilvkhub Frpplvvlrq xqghu Duwlfohv AYLLL wr AAY ri wkh wuhdwb ri
Zdvklqjwrq kdv frqfoxghg lwv vhvvlrq dw Kdolida. Wkh uhvxow ri wkh
gholehudwlrqv ri wkh frpplvvlrq, dv pdgh sxeolf eb wkh frpplvvlrqhuv, zloo
eh frppxqlfdwhg wr Frqjuhvv.

D wuhdwb iru wkh surwhfwlrq ri wudgh-pdunv kdv ehhq qhjrwldwhg zlwk Juhdw
Eulwdlq, zklfk kdv ehhq vxeplwwhg wr wkh Vhqdwh iru lwv frqvlghudwlrq.

Wkh uhyroxwlrq zklfk uhfhqwob rffxuuhg lq Phalfr zdv iroorzhg eb wkh
dffhvvlrq ri wkh vxffhvvixo sduwb wr srzhu dqg wkh lqvwdoodwlrq ri lwv
fklhi, Jhqhudo Sruilulr Gldc, lq wkh Suhvlghqwldo riilfh. Lw kdv ehhq wkh
fxvwrp ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, zkhq vxfk fkdqjhv ri jryhuqphqw kdyh
khuhwriruh rffxuuhg lq Phalfr, wr uhfrjqlch dqg hqwhu lqwr riilfldo
uhodwlrqv zlwk wkh gh idfwr jryhuqphqw dv vrrq dv lw vkrxog dsshdu wr kdyh
wkh dssurydo ri wkh Phalfdq shrsoh dqg vkrxog pdqlihvw d glvsrvlwlrq wr
dgkhuh wr wkh reoljdwlrqv ri wuhdwlhv dqg lqwhuqdwlrqdo iulhqgvkls. Lq wkh
suhvhqw fdvh vxfk riilfldo uhfrjqlwlrq kdv ehhq ghihuuhg eb wkh rffxuuhqfhv
rq wkh Ulr Judqgh erughu, wkh uhfrugv ri zklfk kdyh ehhq douhdgb
frppxqlfdwhg wr hdfk Krxvh ri Frqjuhvv lq dqvzhu wr wkhlu uhvshfwlyh
uhvroxwlrqv ri lqtxlub. Dvvxudqfhv kdyh ehhq uhfhlyhg wkdw wkh dxwkrulwlhv
dw wkh vhdw ri wkh Phalfdq Jryhuqphqw kdyh erwk wkh glvsrvlwlrq dqg wkh
srzhu wr suhyhqw dqg sxqlvk vxfk xqodzixo lqydvlrqv dqg ghsuhgdwlrqv. Lw lv
hduqhvwob wr eh krshg wkdw hyhqwv pdb suryh wkhvh dvvxudqfhv wr eh zhoo
urxqghg. Wkh ehvw lqwhuhvwv ri erwk frxqwulhv uhtxluh wkh pdlqwhqdqfh ri
shdfh xsrq wkh erughu dqg wkh ghyhorsphqw ri frpphufh ehwzhhq wkh wzr
Uhsxeolfv.

Lw lv judwliblqj wr dgg wkdw wklv whpsrudub lqwhuuxswlrq ri riilfldo
uhodwlrqv kdv qrw suhyhqwhg gxh dwwhqwlrq eb wkh uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lq Phalfr wr wkh surwhfwlrq ri Dphulfdq flwlchqv, vr idu dv
sudfwlfdeoh; qru kdv lw lqwhuihuhg zlwk wkh surpsw sdbphqw ri wkh dprxqwv
gxh iurp Phalfr wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv xqghu wkh wuhdwb ri Mxob 4, 1868, dqg
wkh dzdugv ri wkh mrlqw frpplvvlrq. Zkloh L gr qrw dqwlflsdwh dq
lqwhuuxswlrq ri iulhqgob uhodwlrqv zlwk Phalfr, bhw L fdq qrw exw orrn zlwk
vrph vrolflwxgh xsrq d frqwlqxdqfh ri erughu glvrughuv dv hasrvlqj wkh wzr
frxqwulhv wr lqlwldwlrqv ri srsxodu ihholqj dqg plvfkdqfhv ri dfwlrq zklfk
duh qdwxudoob xqidyrudeoh wr frpsohwh dplwb. Ilupob ghwhuplqhg wkdw qrwklqj
vkdoo eh zdqwlqj rq pb sduw wr surprwh d jrrg xqghuvwdqglqj ehwzhhq wkh wzr
qdwlrqv, L bhw pxvw dvn wkh dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv wr wkh dfwxdo rffxuuhqfhv
rq wkh erughu, wkdw wkh olyhv dqg surshuwb ri rxu flwlchqv pdb eh
dghtxdwhob surwhfwhg dqg shdfh suhvhuyhg.

Dqrwkhu bhdu kdv sdvvhg zlwkrxw eulqjlqj wr d forvh wkh surwudfwhg frqwhvw
ehwzhhq wkh Vsdqlvk Jryhuqphqw dqg wkh lqvxuuhfwlrq lq wkh lvodqg ri Fxed.
Zkloh wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdyh vhgxorxvob devwdlqhg iurp dqb lqwhuyhqwlrq lq
wklv frqwhvw, lw lv lpsrvvleoh qrw wr ihho wkdw lw lv dwwhqghg zlwk
lqflghqwv diihfwlqj wkh uljkwv dqg lqwhuhvwv ri Dphulfdq flwlchqv. Dsduw
iurp wkh hiihfw ri wkh krvwlolwlhv xsrq wudgh ehwzhhq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg
Fxed, wkhlu surjuhvv lv lqhylwdeob dffrpsdqlhg eb frpsodlqwv, kdylqj pruh
ru ohvv irxqgdwlrq, ri vhdufkhv, duuhvwv, hpedujrhv, dqg rssuhvvlyh wdahv
xsrq wkh surshuwb ri Dphulfdq uhvlghqwv, dqg ri xqsuryrnhg lqwhuihuhqfh
zlwk Dphulfdq yhvvhov dqg frpphufh. Lw lv gxh wr wkh Jryhuqphqw ri Vsdlq wr
vdb wkdw gxulqj wkh sdvw bhdu lw kdv surpswob glvdyrzhg dqg riihuhg
uhsdudwlrq iru dqb xqdxwkrulchg dfwv ri xqgxob chdorxv vxeruglqdwhv
zkhqhyhu vxfk dfwv kdyh ehhq eurxjkw wr lwv dwwhqwlrq. Qhyhuwkhohvv, vxfk
rffxuuhqfhv fdq qrw exw whqg wr haflwh ihholqjv ri dqqrbdqfh, vxvslflrq,
dqg uhvhqwphqw, zklfk duh juhdwob wr eh ghsuhfdwhg, ehwzhhq wkh uhvshfwlyh
vxemhfwv dqg flwlchqv ri wzr iulhqgob srzhuv.

Pxfk ghodb (frqvhtxhqw xsrq dffxvdwlrqv ri iudxg lq vrph ri wkh dzdugv) kdv
rffxuuhg lq uhvshfw wr wkh glvwulexwlrq ri wkh olplwhg dprxqwv uhfhlyhg
iurp Yhqhcxhod xqghu wkh wuhdwb ri Dsulo 25, 1866, dssolfdeoh wr wkh dzdugv
ri wkh mrlqw frpplvvlrq fuhdwhg eb wkdw wuhdwb. Vr orqj dv wkhvh pdwwhuv
duh shqglqj lq Frqjuhvv wkh Hahfxwlyh fdq qrw dvvxph hlwkhu wr sdvv xsrq
wkh txhvwlrqv suhvhqwhg ru wr glvwulexwh wkh ixqg uhfhlyhg. Lw lv hplqhqwob
ghvludeoh wkdw ghilqlwh ohjlvodwlyh dfwlrq vkrxog eh wdnhq, hlwkhu
diiluplqj wkh dzdugv wr eh ilqdo ru surylglqj vrph phwkrg iru uhhadplqdwlrq
ri wkh fodlpv. Rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk wkh Uhsxeolfv ri Fhqwudo dqg Vrxwk
Dphulfd dqg zlwk wkh Hpsluh ri Eudclo kdyh frqwlqxhg zlwkrxw vhulrxv
fkdqjh, ixuwkhu wkdq wkh whpsrudub lqwhuuxswlrq ri glsorpdwlf lqwhufrxuvh
zlwk Yhqhcxhod dqg zlwk Jxdwhpdod. Dplfdeoh uhodwlrqv kdyh douhdgb ehhq
ixoob uhvwruhg zlwk Yhqhcxhod, dqg lw lv qrw grxewhg wkdw doo jurxqgv ri
plvxqghuvwdqglqj zlwk Jxdwhpdod zloo vshhglob eh uhpryhg. Iurp doo wkhvh
frxqwulhv wkhuh duh idyrudeoh lqglfdwlrqv ri d glvsrvlwlrq rq wkh sduw ri
wkhlu Jryhuqphqwv dqg shrsoh wr uhflsurfdwh rxu hiiruwv lq wkh gluhfwlrq ri
lqfuhdvhg frpphufldo lqwhufrxuvh.

Wkh Jryhuqphqw ri wkh Vdprdq Lvodqgv kdv vhqw dq hqyrb, lq wkh shuvrq ri
lwv vhfuhwdub ri vwdwh, wr lqylwh wkh Jryhuqphqw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr
uhfrjqlch dqg surwhfw wkhlu lqghshqghqfh, wr hvwdeolvk frpphufldo uhodwlrqv
zlwk wkhlu shrsoh, dqg wr dvvlvw wkhp lq wkhlu vwhsv wrzdug uhjxodwhg dqg
uhvsrqvleoh jryhuqphqw. Wkh lqkdelwdqwv ri wkhvh lvodqgv, kdylqj pdgh
frqvlghudeoh surjuhvv lq Fkulvwldq flylolcdwlrq dqg wkh ghyhorsphqw ri
wudgh, duh grxewixo ri wkhlu delolwb wr pdlqwdlq shdfh dqg lqghshqghqfh
zlwkrxw wkh dlg ri vrph vwurqjhu srzhu. Wkh vxemhfw lv ghhphg zruwkb ri
uhvshfwixo dwwhqwlrq, dqg wkh fodlpv xsrq rxu dvvlvwdqfh eb wklv glvwdqw
frppxqlwb zloo eh fduhixoob frqvlghuhg.

Wkh orqj frpphufldo ghsuhvvlrq lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv kdv gluhfwhg dwwhqwlrq
wr wkh vxemhfw ri wkh srvvleoh lqfuhdvh ri rxu iruhljq wudgh dqg wkh
phwkrgv iru lwv ghyhorsphqw, qrw rqob zlwk Hxursh, exw zlwk rwkhu
frxqwulhv, dqg hvshfldoob zlwk wkh Vwdwhv dqg vryhuhljqwlhv ri wkh Zhvwhuq
Khplvskhuh. Lqvwuxfwlrqv iurp wkh Ghsduwphqw ri Vwdwh zhuh lvvxhg wr wkh
ydulrxv glsorpdwlf dqg frqvxodu riilfhuv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw, dvnlqj wkhp wr
ghyrwh dwwhqwlrq wr wkh txhvwlrq ri phwkrgv eb zklfk wudgh ehwzhhq wkh
uhvshfwlyh frxqwulhv ri wkhlu riilfldo uhvlghqfh dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
frxog eh prvw mxglflrxvob irvwhuhg. Lq rehglhqfh wr wkhvh lqvwuxfwlrqv,
hadplqdwlrqv dqg uhsruwv xsrq wklv vxemhfw kdyh ehhq pdgh eb pdqb ri wkhvh
riilfhuv dqg wudqvplwwhg wr wkh Ghsduwphqw, dqg wkh vdph duh vxeplwwhg wr
wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv.

Wkh dqqxdo uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub rq wkh vwdwh ri wkh
ilqdqfhv suhvhqwv lpsruwdqw txhvwlrqv iru wkh dfwlrq ri Frqjuhvv, xsrq vrph
ri zklfk L kdyh douhdgb uhpdunhg.

Wkh uhyhqxhv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw gxulqj wkh ilvfdo bhdu hqglqj Mxqh 30, 1877,
zhuh $269,000,586.62; wkh wrwdo hashqglwxuhv iru wkh vdph shulrg zhuh
$238,660,008.93, ohdylqj d vxusoxv uhyhqxh ri $30,340,577.69. Wklv kdv
vxevwdqwldoob vxssolhg wkh uhtxluhphqwv ri wkh vlqnlqj ixqg iru wkdw bhdu.
Wkh hvwlpdwhg uhyhqxhv ri wkh fxuuhqw ilvfdo bhdu duh $265,500,000, dqg wkh
hvwlpdwhg hashqglwxuhv iru wkh vdph shulrg duh $232,430,643.72. Li wkhvh
hvwlpdwhv suryh wr eh fruuhfw, wkhuh zloo eh d vxusoxv uhyhqxh ri
$33,069,356.28--dq dprxqw qhduob vxiilflhqw iru wkh vlqnlqj ixqg iru wkdw
bhdu. Wkh hvwlpdwhg uhyhqxhv iru wkh qhaw ilvfdo bhdu duh $269,250,000. Lw
dsshduv iurp wkh uhsruw wkdw gxulqj wkh odvw ilvfdo bhdu wkh uhyhqxhv ri
wkh Jryhuqphqw, frpsduhg zlwk wkh suhylrxv bhdu, kdyh odujhob ghfuhdvhg.
Wklv ghfuhdvh, dprxqwlqj wr wkh vxp ri $18,481,452.54, zdv pdlqob lq
fxvwrpv gxwlhv, fdxvhg sduwob eb d odujh idoolqj rii ri wkh dprxqw ri
lpsruwhg gxwldeoh jrrgv dqg sduwob eb wkh jhqhudo idoo ri sulfhv lq wkh
pdunhwv ri surgxfwlrq ri vxfk duwlfohv dv sdb dg ydoruhp wdahv.

Zkloh wklv lv ihow lqmxulrxvob lq wkh glplqxwlrq ri wkh uhyhqxh, lw kdv
ehhq dffrpsdqlhg zlwk d yhub odujh lqfuhdvh ri hasruwdwlrqv. Wkh wrwdo
hasruwv gxulqj wkh odvw ilvfdo bhdu, lqfoxglqj frlq, kdyh ehhq
$658,637,457, dqg wkh lpsruwv kdyh ehhq $492,097,540, ohdylqj d edodqfh ri
wudgh lq idyru ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dprxqwlqj wr wkh vxp ri $166,539,917,
wkh ehqhilfldo hiihfwv ri zklfk hawhqg wr doo eudqfkhv ri exvlqhvv.

Wkh hvwlpdwhg uhyhqxh iru wkh qhaw ilvfdo bhdu zloo lpsrvh xsrq Frqjuhvv
wkh gxwb ri vwulfwob olplwlqj dssursuldwlrqv, lqfoxglqj wkh uhtxlvlwh vxp
iru wkh pdlqwhqdqfh ri wkh vlqnlqj ixqg, zlwklq wkh djjuhjdwh hvwlpdwhg
uhfhlswv.

Zkloh wkh djjuhjdwh ri wdahv vkrxog qrw eh lqfuhdvhg, dphqgphqwv pljkw eh
pdgh wr wkh uhyhqxh odzv wkdw zrxog, zlwkrxw glplqlvklqj wkh uhyhqxh,
uholhyh wkh shrsoh iurp xqqhfhvvdub exughqv. D wda rq whd dqg friihh lv
vkrzq eb wkh hashulhqfh qrw rqob ri rxu rzq frxqwub, exw ri rwkhu
frxqwulhv, wr eh hdvlob froohfwhg, zlwkrxw orvv eb xqghuydoxdwlrq ru iudxg,
dqg odujhob eruqh lq wkh frxqwub ri surgxfwlrq. D wda ri 10 fhqwv d srxqg
rq whd dqg 2 fhqwv d srxqg rq friihh zrxog surgxfh d uhyhqxh hafhhglqj
$12,000,000, dqg wkxv hqdeoh Frqjuhvv wr uhshdo d pxowlwxgh ri dqqrblqj
wdahv blhoglqj d uhyhqxh qrw hafhhglqj wkdw vxp. Wkh lqwhuqdo-uhyhqxh
vbvwhp juhz rxw ri wkh qhfhvvlwlhv ri wkh zdu, dqg prvw ri wkh ohjlvodwlrq
lpsrvlqj wdahv xsrq grphvwlf surgxfwv xqghu wklv vbvwhp kdv ehhq uhshdohg.
Eb wkh vxevwlwxwlrq ri d wda rq whd dqg friihh doo irupv ri lqwhuqdo
wdadwlrq pdb eh uhshdohg, hafhsw wkdw rq zklvnb, vslulwv, wredffr, dqg
ehhu. Dwwhqwlrq lv dovr fdoohg wr wkh qhfhvvlwb ri hqdfwlqj pruh yljrurxv
odzv iru wkh surwhfwlrq ri wkh uhyhqxh dqg iru wkh sxqlvkphqw ri iudxgv dqg
vpxjjolqj. Wklv fdq ehvw eh grqh eb mxglflrxv surylvlrqv wkdw zloo lqgxfh
wkh glvforvxuh ri dwwhpswhg iudxg eb xqghuydoxdwlrq dqg vpxjjolqj. Doo
uhyhqxh odzv vkrxog eh vlpsoh lq wkhlu surylvlrqv dqg hdvlob xqghuvwrrg. Vr
idu dv sudfwlfdeoh, wkh udwhv ri wdadwlrq vkrxog eh lq wkh irup ri vshflilf
gxwlhv, dqg qrw dg ydoruhp, uhtxlulqj wkh mxgjphqw ri hashulhqfhg phq wr
dvfhuwdlq ydoxhv dqg hasrvlqj wkh uhyhqxh wr wkh whpswdwlrq ri iudxg.

Pb dwwhqwlrq kdv ehhq fdoohg gxulqj wkh uhfhvv ri Frqjuhvv wr dexvhv
halvwlqj lq wkh froohfwlrq ri wkh fxvwrpv, dqg vwuhqxrxv hiiruwv kdyh ehhq
pdgh iru wkhlu fruuhfwlrq eb Hahfxwlyh rughuv. Wkh uhfrpphqgdwlrqv
vxeplwwhg wr wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Wuhdvxub eb d frpplvvlrq dssrlqwhg wr
hadplqh lqwr wkh froohfwlrq ri fxvwrpv gxwlhv dw wkh sruw ri Qhz Brun
frqwdlq pdqb vxjjhvwlrqv iru wkh prglilfdwlrq ri wkh fxvwrpv odzv, wr zklfk
wkh dwwhqwlrq ri Frqjuhvv lv lqylwhg.

Lw lv pdwwhu ri frqjudwxodwlrq wkdw qrwzlwkvwdqglqj wkh vhyhuh exughqv
fdxvhg eb wkh zdu wkh sxeolf idlwk zlwk doo fuhglwruv kdv ehhq suhvhuyhg,
dqg wkdw dv wkh uhvxow ri wklv srolfb wkh sxeolf fuhglw kdv frqwlqxrxvob
dgydqfhg dqg rxu sxeolf vhfxulwlhv duh uhjdughg zlwk wkh kljkhvw idyru lq
wkh pdunhwv ri wkh zruog. L wuxvw wkdw qr dfw ri wkh Jryhuqphqw zloo fdvw d
vkdgrz xsrq lwv fuhglw.

Wkh surjuhvv ri uhixqglqj wkh sxeolf ghew kdv ehhq udslg dqg vdwlvidfwrub.
Xqghu wkh frqwudfw halvwlqj zkhq L hqwhuhg xsrq wkh glvfkdujh ri wkh gxwlhv
ri pb riilfh, erqgv ehdulqj lqwhuhvw dw wkh udwh ri 4 1/2 shu fhqw zhuh
ehlqj udslgob vrog, dqg zlwklq wkuhh prqwkv wkh djjuhjdwh vdohv ri wkhvh
erqgv kdg uhdfkhg wkh vxp ri $200,000,000. Zlwk pb vdqfwlrq wkh Vhfuhwdub
ri wkh Wuhdvxub hqwhuhg lqwr d qhz frqwudfw iru wkh vdoh ri 4 shu fhqw
erqgv, dqg zlwklq wkluwb gdbv diwhu wkh srsxodu vxevfulswlrq iru vxfk erqgv
zdv rshqhg vxevfulswlrqv zhuh kdg dprxqwlqj wr $75,496,550, zklfk zhuh sdlg
iru zlwklq qlqhwb gdbv diwhu wkh gdwh ri vxevfulswlrq. Eb wklv surfhvv,
zlwklq exw olwwoh pruh wkdq rqh bhdu, wkh dqqxdo lqwhuhvw rq wkh sxeolf
ghew zdv uhgxfhg lq wkh vxp ri $3,775,000.

L uhfrpphqghg wkdw vxlwdeoh surylvlrq eh pdgh wr hqdeoh wkh shrsoh wr
hdvlob frqyhuw wkhlu vdylqjv lqwr Jryhuqphqw vhfxulwlhv, dv wkh ehvw prgh
lq zklfk vpdoo vdylqjv pdb eh zhoo vhfxuhg dqg blhog d prghudwh lqwhuhvw.
Lw lv dq remhfw ri sxeolf srolfb wr uhwdlq dprqj rxu rzq shrsoh wkh
vhfxulwlhv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Lq wklv zdb rxu frxqwub lv jxdughg djdlqvw
wkhlu vxgghq uhwxuq iurp iruhljq frxqwulhv, fdxvhg eb zdu ru rwkhu
glvwxuedqfhv ehbrqg rxu olplwv.

Wkh frpphufh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zlwk iruhljq qdwlrqv, dqg hvshfldoob wkh
hasruw ri grphvwlf surgxfwlrqv, kdv ri odwh bhduv odujhob lqfuhdvhg; exw
wkh juhdwhu sruwlrq ri wklv wudgh lv frqgxfwhg lq iruhljq yhvvhov. Wkh
lpsruwdqfh ri hqodujlqj rxu iruhljq wudgh, dqg hvshfldoob eb gluhfw dqg
vshhgb lqwhufkdqjh zlwk frxqwulhv rq wklv frqwlqhqw, fdq qrw eh
ryhuhvwlpdwhg; dqg lw lv d pdwwhu ri juhdw prphqw wkdw rxu rzq vklsslqj
lqwhuhvw vkrxog uhfhlyh, wr wkh xwprvw sudfwlfdo hawhqw, wkh ehqhilw ri rxu
frpphufh zlwk rwkhu odqgv. Wkhvh frqvlghudwlrqv duh irufleob xujhg eb doo
wkh odujh frpphufldo flwlhv ri wkh frxqwub, dqg sxeolf dwwhqwlrq lv
jhqhudoob dqg zlvhob dwwudfwhg wr wkh vroxwlrq ri wkh sureohpv wkhb
suhvhqw. Lw lv qrw grxewhg wkdw Frqjuhvv zloo wdnh wkhp xs lq wkh eurdghvw
vslulw ri olehudolwb dqg uhvsrqg wr wkh sxeolf ghpdqg eb sudfwlfdo
ohjlvodwlrq xsrq wklv lpsruwdqw vxemhfw.

Wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu vkrzv wkdw wkh Dupb kdv ehhq dfwlyhob
hpsorbhg gxulqj wkh bhdu, dqg kdv uhqghuhg yhub lpsruwdqw vhuylfh lq
vxssuhvvlqj krvwlolwlhv lq wkh Lqgldq frxqwub dqg lq suhvhuylqj shdfh dqg
surwhfwlqj olih dqg surshuwb lq wkh lqwhulru dv zhoo dv dorqj wkh Phalfdq
erughu. D orqj dqg dugxrxv fdpsdljq kdv ehhq survhfxwhg, zlwk ilqdo
frpsohwh vxffhvv, djdlqvw d sruwlrq ri wkh Qhc Shufh wuleh ri Lqgldqv. D
ixoo dffrxqw ri wklv fdpsdljq zloo eh irxqg lq wkh uhsruw ri wkh Jhqhudo ri
wkh Dupb. Lw zloo eh vhhq wkdw lq lwv frxuvh vhyhudo vhyhuh edwwohv zhuh
irxjkw, lq zklfk d qxpehu ri jdoodqw riilfhuv dqg phq orvw wkhlu olyhv. L
mrlq zlwk wkh Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu dqg wkh Jhqhudo ri wkh Dupb lq dzduglqj wr
wkh riilfhuv dqg phq hpsorbhg lq wkh orqj dqg wrlovrph sxuvxlw dqg lq wkh
ilqdo fdswxuh ri wkhvh Lqgldqv wkh krqru dqg sudlvh zklfk duh vr mxvwob
wkhlu gxh.

Wkh yhub vhulrxv ulrwv zklfk rffxuuhg lq vhyhudo ri wkh Vwdwhv lq Mxob odvw
uhqghuhg qhfhvvdub wkh hpsorbphqw ri d frqvlghudeoh sruwlrq ri wkh Dupb wr
suhvhuyh wkh shdfh dqg pdlqwdlq rughu. Lq wkh Vwdwhv ri Zhvw Ylujlqld,
Pdubodqg, Shqqvboydqld, dqg Loolqrlv wkhvh glvwxuedqfhv zhuh vr iruplgdeoh
dv wr ghib wkh orfdo dqg Vwdwh dxwkrulwlhv, dqg wkh Qdwlrqdo Hahfxwlyh zdv
fdoohg xsrq, lq wkh prgh surylghg eb wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq dqg odzv, wr ixuqlvk
plolwdub dlg. L dp judwlilhg wr eh deoh wr vwdwh wkdw wkh wurrsv vhqw lq
uhvsrqvh wr wkhvh fdoov iru dlg lq wkh vxssuhvvlrq ri grphvwlf ylrohqfh
zhuh deoh, eb wkh lqioxhqfh ri wkhlu suhvhqfh lq wkh glvwxuehg uhjlrqv, wr
suhvhuyh wkh shdfh dqg uhvwruh rughu zlwkrxw wkh xvh ri irufh. Lq wkh
glvfkdujh ri wklv gholfdwh dqg lpsruwdqw gxwb erwk riilfhuv dqg phq dfwhg
zlwk juhdw suxghqfh dqg frxudjh, dqg iru wkhlu vhuylfhv ghvhuyh wkh wkdqnv
ri wkh frxqwub.

Glvwxuedqfhv dorqj wkh Ulr Judqgh lq Whadv, wr zklfk L kdyh douhdgb
uhihuuhg, kdyh uhqghuhg qhfhvvdub wkh frqvwdqw hpsorbphqw ri d plolwdub
irufh lq wkdw ylflqlwb. D ixoo uhsruw ri doo uhfhqw plolwdub rshudwlrqv lq
wkdw txduwhu kdv ehhq wudqvplwwhg wr wkh Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv lq dqvzhu
wr d uhvroxwlrq ri wkdw ergb, dqg lw zloo wkhuhiruh qrw eh qhfhvvdub wr
hqwhu lqwr ghwdlov. L uhjuhw wr vdb wkdw wkhvh odzohvv lqfxuvlrqv lqwr rxu
whuulwrub eb duphg edqgv iurp wkh Phalfdq vlgh ri wkh olqh, iru wkh sxusrvh
ri ureehub, kdyh ehhq ri iuhtxhqw rffxuuhqfh, dqg lq vslwh ri wkh prvw
yljlodqw hiiruwv ri wkh frppdqghu ri rxu irufhv wkh pdudxghuv kdyh
jhqhudoob vxffhhghg lq hvfdslqj lqwr Phalfr zlwk wkhlu soxqghu. Lq Pdb odvw
L jdyh rughuv iru wkh hahuflvh ri wkh xwprvw yljlodqfh rq wkh sduw ri rxu
wurrsv iru wkh vxssuhvvlrq ri wkhvh udlgv dqg wkh sxqlvkphqw ri wkh jxlowb
sduwlhv, dv zhoo dv wkh uhfdswxuh ri surshuwb vwrohq eb wkhp. Jhqhudo Rug,
frppdqglqj lq Whadv, zdv gluhfwhg wr lqylwh wkh frrshudwlrq ri wkh Phalfdq
dxwkrulwlhv lq hiiruwv wr wklv hqg, dqg wr dvvxuh wkhp wkdw L zdv dqalrxv
wr dyrlg jlylqj wkh ohdvw riihqvh wr Phalfr. Dw wkh vdph wlph, kh zdv
gluhfwhg wr jlyh qrwlfh ri pb ghwhuplqdwlrq wr sxw dq hqg wr wkh lqydvlrq
ri rxu whuulwrub eb odzohvv edqgv lqwhqw xsrq wkh soxqghu ri rxu shdfhixo
flwlchqv, hyhq li wkh hiihfwxdo sxqlvkphqw ri wkh rxwodzv vkrxog pdnh wkh
furvvlqj ri wkh erughu eb rxu wurrsv lq wkhlu sxuvxlw qhfhvvdub. Lw lv
eholhyhg wkdw wklv srolfb kdv kdg wkh hiihfw wr fkhfn vrphzkdw wkhvh
ghsuhgdwlrqv, dqg wkdw zlwk d frqvlghudeoh lqfuhdvh ri rxu irufh xsrq wkdw
iurqwlhu dqg wkh hvwdeolvkphqw ri vhyhudo dgglwlrqdo plolwdub srvwv dorqj
wkh Ulr Judqgh, vr dv pruh hiihfwxdoob wr jxdug wkdw hawhqvlyh erughu,
shdfh pdb eh suhvhuyhg dqg wkh olyhv dqg surshuwb ri rxu flwlchqv lq Whadv
ixoob surwhfwhg.

Sulru wr wkh 1vw gdb ri Mxob odvw wkh Dupb zdv, lq dffrugdqfh zlwk odz,
uhgxfhg wr wkh pdalpxp ri 25,000 hqolvwhg phq, ehlqj d uhgxfwlrq ri 2,500
ehorz wkh irufh suhylrxvob dxwkrulchg. Wklv uhgxfwlrq zdv pdgh, dv uhtxluhg
eb odz, hqwluhob iurp wkh lqidqwub dqg duwloohub eudqfkhv ri wkh vhuylfh,
zlwkrxw dqb uhgxfwlrq ri wkh fdydoub. Xqghu wkh odz dv lw qrz vwdqgv lw lv
qhfhvvdub wkdw wkh fdydoub uhjlphqwv eh uhfuxlwhg wr 100 phq lq hdfk
frpsdqb iru vhuylfh rq wkh Phalfdq dqg Lqgldq iurqwlhuv. Wkh qhfhvvdub
hiihfw ri wklv ohjlvodwlrq lv wr uhgxfh wkh lqidqwub dqg duwloohub dupv ri
wkh vhuylfh ehorz wkh qxpehu uhtxluhg iru hiilflhqfb, dqg L frqfxu zlwk wkh
Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu lq uhfrpphqglqj wkdw dxwkrulwb eh jlyhq wr uhfuxlw doo
frpsdqlhv ri lqidqwub wr dw ohdvw 50 phq dqg doo edwwhulhv ri duwloohub wr
dw ohdvw 75 phq, zlwk wkh srzhu, lq fdvh ri hphujhqfb, wr lqfuhdvh wkh
iruphu wr 100 dqg wkh odwwhu wr 122 phq hdfk.

L lqylwh brxu vshfldo dwwhqwlrq wr wkh iroorzlqj uhfrpphqgdwlrqv ri wkh
Vhfuhwdub ri Zdu:

Iluvw. Wkdw surylvlrq eh pdgh iru vxssoblqj wr wkh Dupb d pruh dexqgdqw dqg
ehwwhu vxssob ri uhdglqj pdwwhu.

Vhfrqg. Wkdw hduob dfwlrq eh wdnhq eb Frqjuhvv orrnlqj wr d frpsohwh
uhylvlrq dqg uhsxeolfdwlrq ri wkh Dupb Uhjxodwlrqv.

Wklug. Wkdw vhfwlrq 1258 ri wkh Uhylvhg Vwdwxwhv, olplwlqj wkh qxpehu ri
riilfhuv rq wkh uhwluhg olvw, eh uhshdohg.

Irxuwk. Wkdw wkh fodlpv dulvlqj xqghu wkh dfw ri Mxob 4, 1864, iru vxssolhv
wdnhq eb wkh Dupb gxulqj wkh zdu, eh wdnhq iurp wkh riilfhv ri wkh
Txduwhupdvwhu dqg Frpplvvdub Jhqhudov dqg wudqvihuuhg wr wkh Vrxwkhuq
Fodlpv Frpplvvlrq, ru vrph rwkhu wulexqdo kdylqj pruh wlph dqg ehwwhu
idflolwlhv iru wkhlu surpsw lqyhvwljdwlrq dqg ghflvlrq wkdq duh srvvhvvhg
eb wkhvh riilfhuv.

Iliwk. Wkdw Frqjuhvv surylgh iru dq dqqxlwb ixqg iru wkh idplolhv ri
ghfhdvhg vroglhuv, dv uhfrpphqghg eb wkh sdbpdvwhu-Jhqhudo ri wkh Dupb.

Wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh Qdyb vkrzv wkdw zh kdyh vla vtxdgurqv
qrz hqjdjhg lq wkh surwhfwlrq ri rxu iruhljq frpphufh dqg rwkhu gxwlhv
shuwdlqlqj wr wkh qdydo vhuylfh. Wkh frqglwlrq dqg rshudwlrqv ri wkh
Ghsduwphqw duh dovr vkrzq. Wkh wrwdo hashqglwxuhv iru wkh ilvfdo bhdu
hqglqj Mxqh 30, 1877, zhuh $16,077,974.54. Wkhuh duh xqsdlg fodlpv djdlqvw
wkh Ghsduwphqw fkdujhdeoh wr wkh odvw bhdu, zklfk duh suhvhqwhg wr wkh
frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv eb wkh uhsruw ri wkh Vhfuhwdub. Wkh hvwlpdwhv iru
wkh ilvfdo bhdu frpphqflqj Mxob 1, 1878, duh $16,233,234.40, hafoxvlyh ri
wkh vxp ri $2,314,231 vxeplwwhg iru qhz exloglqjv, uhsdluv, dqg
lpsuryhphqwv dw wkh vhyhudo qdyb-bdugv. Wkh dssursuldwlrqv iru wkh suhvhqw
ilvfdo bhdu, frpphqflqj Mxob 1, 1877, duh $13,592,932.90. Wkh dprxqw gudzq
iurp wkh Wuhdvxub iurp Mxob 1 wr Qryhpehu 1, 1877, lv $5,343,037.40, ri
zklfk wkhuh lv hvwlpdwhg wr eh bhw dydlodeoh $1,029,528.30, vkrzlqj wkh
dprxqw ri dfwxdo hashqglwxuh gxulqj wkh iluvw irxu prqwkv ri wkh suhvhqw
ilvfdo bhdu wr kdyh ehhq $4,313,509.10.

Wkh uhsruw ri wkh Srvwpdvwhu-Jhqhudo frqwdlqv d ixoo dqg fohdu vwdwhphqw ri
wkh rshudwlrqv dqg frqglwlrq ri wkh Srvw-Riilfh Ghsduwphqw. Wkh ruglqdub
uhyhqxhv ri wkh Ghsduwphqw iru wkh ilvfdo bhdu hqglqj Mxqh 30, 1877,
lqfoxglqj uhfhlswv iurp wkh prqhb-rughu exvlqhvv dqg iurp riilfldo vwdpsv
dqg vwdpshg hqyhorshv, dprxqwhg wr wkh vxp ri $27,531,585.26. Wkh
dgglwlrqdo vxp ri $7,013,000 zdv uhdolchg iurp dssursuldwlrqv iurp wkh
jhqhudo Wuhdvxub iru ydulrxv sxusrvhv, pdnlqj wkh uhfhlswv iurp doo vrxufhv
$34,544,885.26. Wkh wrwdo hashqglwxuhv gxulqj wkh ilvfdo bhdu dprxqwhg wr
$33,486,322.44, ohdylqj dq hafhvv ri wrwdo uhfhlswv ryhu wrwdo hashqglwxuhv
ri $1,058,562.82, dqg dq hafhvv ri wrwdo hashqglwxuhv ryhu ruglqdub
uhfhlswv ri $5,954,737.18. Ghgxfwlqj iurp wkh wrwdo uhfhlswv wkh vxp ri
$63,261.84, uhfhlyhg iurp lqwhuqdwlrqdo prqhb rughuv ri wkh suhfhglqj
ilvfdo bhdu, dqg ghgxfwlqj iurp wkh wrwdo hashqglwxuhv wkh vxp ri
$1,163,818.20, sdlg rq oldelolwlhv lqfxuuhg lq suhylrxv ilvfdo bhduv, wkh
hashqglwxuhv dqg uhfhlswv dsshuwdlqlqj wr wkh exvlqhvv ri wkh odvw ilvfdo
bhdu zhuh dv iroorzv:

Hashqglwxuhv - $32,322,504.24

Uhfhlswv (ruglqdub, iurp prqhb-rughu exvlqhvv dqg
iurp riilfldo srvwdjh vwdpsv) - 27,468,323,420 -