Wvccfn-Tzkzqvej fw kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj:

Kyv dvdsvij fw kyv Wfikp-jzoky Tfexivjj yrmv rjjvdscvu ze kyvzi wzijk
ivxlcri jvjjzfe leuvi tzitldjkretvj trcczex wfi dlklrc tfexirklcrkzfe reu
xirkvwlc rtbefncvuxdvek kf kyv Xzmvi fw Rcc Xffu wfi kyv crixv reu leljlrc
dvrjliv fw erkzferc gifjgvizkp nyzty nv efn veafp.

Kyv dfjk zekvivjkzex vmvekj nyzty yrmv fttliivu ze fli glsczt rwwrzij jzetv
dp crjk reelrc dvjjrxv kf Tfexivjj riv tfeevtkvu nzky kyv wzeretzrc
fgvirkzfej fw kyv Xfmviedvek, uzivtkcp rwwvtkzex kyv sljzevjj zekvivjkj fw
kyv tflekip. Z tfexirklcrkv Tfexivjj fe kyv jlttvjjwlc vovtlkzfe fw kyv
ivjldgkzfe rtk. Rk kyv kzdv wzovu, reu ze kyv dreevi tfekvdgcrkvu sp crn,
Lezkvu Jkrkvj efkvj svxre kf sv ivuvvdvu ze tfze. Jzetv kyv 1jk fw Arelrip
crjk kyvp yrmv svve gifdgkcp ivuvvdvu fe givjvekrkzfe, reu ze rcc sljzevjj
kirejrtkzfej, glsczt reu gizmrkv, ze rcc grikj fw kyv tflekip, kyvp riv
ivtvzmvu reu grzu flk rj kyv vhlzmrcvek fw tfze. Kyv uvdreu lgfe kyv
Kivrjlip wfi xfcu reu jzcmvi ze votyrexv wfi Lezkvu Jkrkvj efkvj yrj svve
tfdgrirkzmvcp jdrcc, reu kyv mfclekrip uvgfjzk fw tfze reu slcczfe ze
votyrexv wfi efkvj yrj svve mvip crixv. Kyv votvjj fw kyv givtzflj dvkrcj
uvgfjzkvu fi votyrexvu wfi Lezkvu Jkrkvj efkvj fmvi kyv rdflek fw Lezkvu
Jkrkvj efkvj ivuvvdvu zj rsflk $40,000,000.

Kyv ivjldgkzfe fw jgvtzv grpdvekj yrj svve wfccfnvu sp r mvip xivrk ivmzmrc
fw sljzevjj. Nzky r tliivetp vhlzmrcvek ze mrclv kf kyv dfevp fw kyv
tfddvitzrc nficu, nv riv verscvu kf vekvi lgfe re vhlrc tfdgvkzkzfe nzky
fkyvi erkzfej ze kiruv reu gifultkzfe. Kyv zetivrjzex wfivzxe uvdreu wfi
fli drelwrtklivj reu rxiztlcklirc gifultkj yrj trljvu r crixv srcretv fw
kiruv ze fli wrmfi, nyzty yrj svve grzu ze xfcu, wifd kyv 1jk fw Alcp crjk
kf Efmvdsvi 15, kf kyv rdflek fw rsflk $59,000,000. Jzetv kyv ivjldgkzfe fw
jgvtzv grpdvekj kyviv yrj rcjf svve r dribvu reu xirkzwpzex zdgifmvdvek fw
kyv glsczt tivuzk. Kyv sfeuj fw kyv Xfmviedvek svrizex fecp 4 gvi tvek
zekvivjk yrmv svve jfcu rk fi rsfmv gri, jlwwztzvek ze rdflek kf grp fww
rcc fw kyv erkzferc uvsk nyzty nrj ivuvvdrscv leuvi givjvek crnj. Kyv
rdflek fw zekvivjk jrmvu reelrccp sp kyv giftvjj fw ivwleuzex kyv uvsk
jzetv Drity 1, 1877, zj $14,297,177. Kyv sfeuj jfcu nviv crixvcp ze jdrcc
jldj, reu kyv eldsvi fw fli tzkzqvej efn yfcuzex kyv glsczt jvtlizkzvj zj
dlty xivrkvi kyre vmvi svwfiv. Kyv rdflek fw kyv erkzferc uvsk nyzty
drklivj nzkyze cvjj kyre knf pvrij zj $792,121,700, fw nyzty $500,000,000
svri zekvivjk rk kyv irkv fw 5 gvi tvek, reu kyv srcretv zj ze sfeuj
svrizex 6 gvi tvek zekvivjk. Zk zj svczvmvu kyrk kyzj grik fw kyv glsczt
uvsk tre sv ivwleuvu sp kyv zjjlv fw 4 gvi tvek sfeuj, reu, sp kyv
ivultkzfe fw zekvivjk nyzty nzcc kylj sv vwwvtkvu, rsflk $11,000,000 tre sv
reelrccp jrmvu kf kyv Kivrjlip. Kf jvtliv kyzj zdgfikrek ivultkzfe fw
zekvivjk kf sv grzu sp kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj wlikyvi cvxzjcrkzfe zj ivhlzivu,
nyzty zk zj yfgvu nzcc sv gifmzuvu sp Tfexivjj ulizex zkj givjvek jvjjzfe.

Kyv tfzerxv fw xfcu sp kyv dzekj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ulizex kyv crjk
wzjtrc pvri nrj $40,986,912. Kyv tfzerxv fw jzcmvi ufccrij jzetv kyv
grjjrxv fw kyv rtk wfi kyrk gligfjv lg kf Efmvdsvi 1, 1879, nrj
$45,000,850, fw nyzty $12,700,344 yrmv svve zjjlvu wifd kyv Kivrjlip reu
riv efn ze tzitlcrkzfe, reu $32,300,506 riv jkzcc ze kyv gfjjvjjzfe fw kyv
Xfmviedvek.

Kyv gveuvetp fw kyv gifgfjzkzfe wfi lezkp fw rtkzfe svknvve kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj reu kyv gizetzgrc tfddvitzrc erkzfej fw Vlifgv kf vwwvtk r gvidrevek
jpjkvd wfi kyv vhlrczkp fw xfcu reu jzcmvi ze kyv ivtfxezqvu dfevp fw kyv
nficu cvruj dv kf ivtfddveu kyrk Tfexivjj ivwirze wifd evn cvxzjcrkzfe fe
kyv xvevirc jlsavtk. Kyv xivrk ivmzmrc fw kiruv, zekvierc reu wfivzxe, nzcc
jlggcp ulizex kyv tfdzex pvri zkj fne zejkiltkzfej, nyzty drp nvcc sv
rnrzkvu svwfiv rkkvdgkzex wlikyvi vogvizdvekrc dvrjlivj nzky kyv tfzerxv. Z
nflcu, yfnvmvi, jkifexcp lixv lgfe Tfexivjj kyv zdgfikretv fw rlkyfizqzex
kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip kf jljgveu kyv tfzerxv fw jzcmvi ufccrij lgfe
kyv givjvek cvxrc irkzf. Kyv dribvk mrclv fw kyv jzcmvi ufccri svzex
lezwfidcp reu crixvcp cvjj kyre kyv dribvk mrclv fw kyv xfcu ufccri, zk zj
fsmzfljcp zdgirtkztrscv kf drzekrze kyvd rk gri nzky vrty fkyvi zw sfky riv
tfzevu nzkyflk czdzk. Zw kyv tyvrgvi tfze zj wfitvu zekf tzitlcrkzfe, zk
nzcc, zw tfzevu nzkyflk czdzk, jffe svtfdv kyv jfcv jkreuriu fw mrclv, reu
kylj uvwvrk kyv uvjzivu fsavtk, nyzty zj r tliivetp fw sfky xfcu reu jzcmvi
nyzty jyrcc sv fw vhlzmrcvek mrclv, ufccri wfi ufccri, nzky kyv lezmvijrccp
ivtfxezqvu dfevp fw kyv nficu.

Kyv ivkzivdvek wifd tzitlcrkzfe fw Lezkvu Jkrkvj efkvj nzky kyv trgrtzkp fw
cvxrc kveuvi ze gizmrkv tfekirtkj zj r jkvg kf sv krbve ze fli gifxivjj
kfnriu r jrwv reu jkrscv tliivetp nyzty jyflcu sv rttvgkvu rj kyv gfcztp
reu ulkp fw kyv Xfmviedvek reu kyv zekvivjk reu jvtlizkp fw kyv gvfgcv. Zk
zj dp wzid tfemztkzfe kyrk kyv zjjlv fw cvxrc-kveuvi grgvi dfevp srjvu
nyfccp lgfe kyv rlkyfizkp reu tivuzk fw kyv Xfmviedvek, votvgk ze vokivdv
vdvixvetp, zj nzkyflk nriirek ze kyv Tfejkzklkzfe reu r mzfcrkzfe fw jfleu
wzeretzrc gizetzgcvj. Kyv zjjlv fw Lezkvu Jkrkvj efkvj ulizex kyv crkv
tzmzc nri nzky kyv trgrtzkp fw cvxrc kveuvi svknvve gizmrkv zeuzmzulrcj nrj
efk rlkyfizqvu votvgk rj r dvrej fw ivjtlzex kyv tflekip wifd zddzevek
gvizc. Kyv tzitlcrkzfe fw kyvjv efkvj rj grgvi dfevp wfi rep gifkirtkvu
gvizfu fw kzdv rwkvi kyv rttfdgczjydvek fw kyzj gligfjv nrj efk
tfekvdgcrkvu sp kyv wirdvij fw kyv crn leuvi nyzty kyvp nviv zjjlvu. Kyvp
rekztzgrkvu kyv ivuvdgkzfe reu nzkyuirnrc fw kyvjv efkvj rk kyv vriczvjk
girtkztrscv gvizfu tfejzjkvek nzky kyv rkkrzedvek fw kyv fsavtk wfi nyzty
kyvp nviv gifmzuvu.

Kyv gfcztp fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, jkvruzcp ruyvivu kf wifd kyv rufgkzfe fw
kyv Tfejkzklkzfe, yrj svve kf rmfzu kyv tivrkzfe fw r erkzferc uvsk; reu
nyve, wifd evtvjjzkp ze kzdv fw nri, uvskj yrmv svve tivrkvu, kyvp yrmv
svve grzu fww, fe kyv ivklie fw gvrtv, rj irgzucp rj gfjjzscv. Nzky kyzj
mzvn, reu wfi kyzj gligfjv, zk zj ivtfddveuvu kyrk kyv vozjkzex crnj wfi
kyv rttldlcrkzfe fw r jzebzex wleu jlwwztzvek kf vokzexlzjy kyv glsczt uvsk
nzkyze r czdzkvu gvizfu sv drzekrzevu. Zw rep tyrexv fw kyv fsavtkj fi
irkvj fw krorkzfe zj uvvdvu evtvjjrip sp Tfexivjj, zk zj jlxxvjkvu kyrk
vogvizvetv yrj jyfne kyrk r ulkp tre sv gcrtvu fe kvr reu tfwwvv nyzty nzcc
efk veyretv kyv giztv fw kyfjv rikztcvj kf kyv tfejldvi, reu nyzty nzcc ruu
jvmvirc dzcczfej fw ufccrij reelrccp kf kyv Kivrjlip.

Kyv tfekzelvu uvczsvirkv mzfcrkzfe sp r crixv eldsvi fw kyv gifdzevek reu
zewclvekzrc tzkzqvej fw kyv Kviizkfip fw Lkry fw kyv crnj fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj wfi kyv gifjvtlkzfe reu glezjydvek fw gfcpxrdp uvdreuj kyv rkkvekzfe
fw vmvip uvgrikdvek fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Kyzj Kviizkfip yrj r gfglcrkzfe
jlwwztzvek kf vekzkcv zk kf rudzjjzfe rj r Jkrkv, reu kyv xvevirc zekvivjkj
fw kyv erkzfe, rj nvcc rj kyv nvcwriv fw kyv tzkzqvej fw kyv Kviizkfip,
ivhlziv zkj rumretv wifd kyv Kviizkfizrc wfid fw xfmviedvek kf kyv
ivjgfejzszczkzvj reu gizmzcvxvj fw r Jkrkv. Kyzj zdgfikrek tyrexv nzcc efk,
yfnvmvi, sv rggifmvu sp kyv tflekip nyzcv kyv tzkzqvej fw Lkry ze mvip
tfejzuvirscv eldsvi lgyfcu r girtkztv nyzty zj tfeuvdevu rj r tizdv sp kyv
crnj fw rcc tzmzczqvu tfddlezkzvj kyiflxyflk kyv nficu.

Kyv crn wfi kyv jlggivjjzfe fw kyzj fwwvejv nrj vertkvu nzky xivrk
lerezdzkp sp Tfexivjj dfiv kyre jvmvekvve pvrij rxf, slk yrj ivdrzevu lekzc
ivtvekcp r uvru cvkkvi ze kyv Kviizkfip fw Lkry, svtrljv fw kyv gvtlczri
uzwwztlckzvj rkkveuzex zkj vewfitvdvek. Kyv fgzezfe nzuvcp givmrzcvu rdfex
kyv tzkzqvej fw Lkry kyrk kyv crn nrj ze tfekirmvekzfe fw kyv
tfejkzklkzferc xlrirekp fw ivczxzflj wivvufd. Kyzj fsavtkzfe zj efn
ivdfmvu. Kyv Jlgivdv Tflik fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrj uvtzuvu kyv crn kf sv
nzkyze kyv cvxzjcrkzmv gfnvi fw Tfexivjj reu szeuzex rj r ilcv fw rtkzfe
wfi rcc nyf ivjzuv nzkyze kyv Kviizkfizvj. Kyviv zj ef cfexvi rep ivrjfe
wfi uvcrp fi yvjzkrkzfe ze zkj vewfitvdvek. Zk jyflcu sv wzidcp reu
vwwvtkzmvcp vovtlkvu. Zw efk jlwwztzvekcp jkizexvek ze zkj gifmzjzfej, zk
jyflcu sv rdveuvu; reu ze rzu fw kyv gligfjv ze mzvn Z ivtfddveu kyrk dfiv
tfdgivyvejzmv reu dfiv jvrityzex dvkyfuj wfi givmvekzex rj nvcc rj
glezjyzex kyzj tizdv sv gifmzuvu. Zw evtvjjrip kf jvtliv fsvuzvetv kf kyv
crn, kyv veafpdvek reu vovitzjv fw kyv izxykj reu gizmzcvxvj fw tzkzqvejyzg
ze kyv Kviizkfizvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj drp sv nzkyyvcu fi nzkyuirne wifd
kyfjv nyf mzfcrkv fi fggfjv kyv vewfitvdvek fw kyv crn fe kyzj jlsavtk.

Kyv vcvtkzfej fw kyv grjk pvri, kyflxy fttlgzvu fecp nzky Jkrkv fwwztvij,
yrmv efk wrzcvu kf vcztzk ze kyv gfczkztrc uzjtljjzfej nyzty rkkveuvu kyvd
rcc fmvi kyv tflekip evn reu uvtzjzmv vmzuvetv fw kyv uvvg zekvivjk nyzty
kyv xivrk sfup fw tzkzqvej krbv ze kyv gifxivjj fw kyv tflekip kfnriu r
dfiv xvevirc reu tfdgcvkv vjkrsczjydvek, rk nyrkvmvi tfjk, fw lezmvijrc
jvtlizkp reu wivvufd ze kyv vovitzjv fw kyv vcvtkzmv wiretyzjv. Nyzcv drep
kfgztj fw gfczkztrc tfetvie uvdreu xivrk rkkvekzfe wifd fli gvfgcv, sfky ze
kyv jgyviv fw erkzferc reu Jkrkv rlkyfizkp, Z wzeu ef ivrjfe kf hlrczwp kyv
fgzezfe Z vogivjjvu ze dp crjk reelrc dvjjrxv, kyrk ef kvdgfirip fi
rudzezjkirkzmv zekvivjkj fw xfmviedvek, yfnvmvi lixvek fi nvzxykp, nzcc
vmvi uzjgcrtv kyv qvrc fw fli gvfgcv ze uvwvejv fw kyv gizdrip izxykj fw
tzkzqvejyzg, reu kyrk kyv gfnvi fw glsczt fgzezfe nzcc fmviizuv rcc
gfczkztrc givaluztvj, reu rcc jvtkzferc reu Jkrkv rkkrtydvekj ze uvdreuzex
kyrk rcc fmvi fli nzuv kviizkfip kyv erdv reu tyrirtkvi fw tzkzqve fw kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj jyrcc dvre fev reu kyv jrdv kyzex reu triip nzky kyvd
letyrccvexvu jvtlizkp reu ivjgvtk. Z vrievjkcp rggvrc kf kyv zekvcczxvetv
reu grkizfkzjd fw rcc xffu tzkzqvej fw vmvip grik fw kyv tflekip, yfnvmvi
dlty kyvp drpsv uzmzuvu ze fgzezfej fe fkyvi gfczkztrc jlsavtkj, kf lezkv
ze tfdgvcczex fsvuzvetv kf vozjkzex crnj rzdvu rk kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv
izxyk fw jlwwirxv. Z ivjgvtkwlccp lixv lgfe Tfexivjj kf jlggcp rep uvwvtkj
ze kyvjv crnj nyzty vogvizvetv yrj jyfne reu nyzty zk zj nzkyze zkj gfnvi
kf ivdvup. Z rxrze zemfbv kyv tffgvirkzfe fw kyv vovtlkzmv reu cvxzjcrkzmv
rlkyfizkzvj fw kyv Jkrkvj ze kyzj xivrk gligfjv. Z rd wlccp tfemzetvu kyrk
zw kyv glsczt dzeu tre sv jvk rk ivjk fe kyzj grirdflek hlvjkzfe fw gfglcri
izxykj ef jvizflj fsjkrtcv nzcc kynrik fi uvcrp kyv tfdgcvkv grtzwztrkzfe
fw kyv tflekip fi ivkriu kyv xvevirc uzwwljzfe fw gifjgvizkp.

Ze r wfidvi dvjjrxv Z zemzkvu kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv jlsavtk fw
kyv ivwfidrkzfe fw kyv tzmzc jvimztv fw kyv Xfmviedvek, reu vogivjjvu kyv
zekvekzfe fw kirejdzkkzex kf Tfexivjj rj vricp rj girtkztrscv r ivgfik lgfe
kyzj jlsavtk sp kyv tyrzidre fw kyv Tzmzc Jvimztv Tfddzjjzfe.

Ze mzvn fw kyv wrtkj kyrk ulizex r tfejzuvirscv gvizfu kyv Xfmviedvek fw
Xivrk Sizkrze yrj svve uvrczex nzky rudzezjkirkzmv gifscvdj reu rsljvj ze
mrizflj grikztlcrij rercfxflj kf kyfjv givjvekvu ze kyzj tflekip, reu kyrk
ze ivtvek pvrij kyv dvrjlivj rufgkvu nviv leuvijkffu kf yrmv svve vwwvtkzmv
reu ze vmvip ivjgvtk yzxycp jrkzjwrtkfip, Z kyflxyk zk uvjzirscv kf yrmv
wlccvi zewfidrkzfe lgfe kyv jlsavtk, reu rttfiuzexcp ivhlvjkvu kyv tyrzidre
fw kyv Tzmzc Jvimztv Tfddzjjzfe kf drbv r kyfiflxy zemvjkzxrkzfe wfi kyzj
gligfjv. Kyv ivjlck yrj svve re vcrsfirkv reu tfdgivyvejzmv ivgfik.

Kyv ivgfik jvkj wfiky kyv yzjkfip fw kyv grikzjre jgfzcj jpjkvd ze Xivrk
Sizkrze, reu fw kyv izjv reu wrcc fw kyv griczrdvekrip grkiferxv, reu fw
fwwztzrc zekviwvivetv nzky kyv wivvufd fw vcvtkzfej. Zk jyfnj kyrk rwkvi
cfex kizrcj fw mrizflj bzeuj fw vordzerkzfej kyfjv nyzty riv tfdgvkzkzmv
reu fgve fe vhlrc kvidj kf rcc, reu nyzty riv triizvu fe leuvi kyv
jlgvizekveuvetv fw r jzexcv tfddzjjzfe, yrmv, nzky xivrk rumrekrxv, svve
vjkrsczjyvu rj tfeuzkzfej fw rudzjjzfe kf rcdfjk vmvip fwwztzrc gcrtv ze
kyv jlsfiuzerkv rudzezjkirkzfe fw kyrk tflekip reu fw Sizkzjy Zeuzr. Kyv
tfdgcvkzfe fw kyv ivgfik, fnzex kf kyv vokvek fw kyv crsfi zemfcmvu ze zkj
givgrirkzfe reu kyv fdzjjzfe fw Tfexivjj kf drbv rep gifmzjzfe vzkyvi wfi
kyv tfdgvejrkzfe fi kyv vogvejvj fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe, yrj svve gfjkgfevu
lekzc kyv givjvek kzdv. Zk zj yvivnzky kirejdzkkvu kf Tfexivjj.

Nyzcv kyv ivwfid dvrjlivj fw refkyvi xfmviedvek riv fw ef rlkyfizkp wfi lj,
kyvp riv vekzkcvu kf zewclvetv kf kyv vokvek kf nyzty kyvzi zekizejzt
nzjufd reu kyvzi rurgkrkzfe kf fli zejkzklkzfej reu jftzrc czwv drp tfddveu
kyvd kf fli tfejzuvirkzfe. Kyv mzvnj Z yrmv yvivkfwfiv vogivjjvu tfetviezex
kyv uvwvtkj reu rsljvj ze fli tzmzc rudzezjkirkzfe ivdrze letyrexvu, votvgk
ze jf wri rj re vecrixvu vogvizvetv yrj uvvgvevu dp jvejv fw kyv ulkp sfky
fw fwwztvij reu fw kyv gvfgcv kyvdjvcmvj kf tffgvirkv wfi kyvzi ivdfmrc.
Kyv xirmv vmzcj reu gvizcj fw r grikzjre jgfzcj jpjkvd fw rggfzekdvek kf
fwwztv reu fw fwwztv kveliv riv efn xvevirccp ivtfxezqvu. Ze kyv
ivjfclkzfej fw kyv xivrk grikzvj, ze kyv ivgfikj fw Uvgrikdvekj, ze kyv
uvsrkvj reu giftvvuzexj fw Tfexivjj, ze kyv dvjjrxvj fw Vovtlkzmvj, kyv
xirmzkp fw kyvjv vmzcj yrj svve gfzekvu flk reu kyv evvu fw kyvzi ivwfid
yrj svve rudzkkvu.

Kf tfddreu kyv evtvjjrip jlggfik, vmvip dvrjliv fw ivwfid dljk sv srjvu fe
tfddfe izxyk reu aljkztv, reu dljk sv tfdgrkzscv nzky kyv yvrckyp vozjkvetv
fw xivrk grikzvj, nyzty riv zevmzkrscv reu vjjvekzrc ze r wivv jkrkv.

Nyve kyv gvfgcv yrmv rggifmvu r gfcztp rk r erkzferc vcvtkzfe, tfewzuvetv
fe kyv grik fw kyv fwwztvij kyvp yrmv jvcvtkvu reu fw kyv rumzjvij nyf, ze
rttfiuretv nzky fli gfczkztrc zejkzklkzfej, jyflcu sv tfejlckvu ze kyv
gfcztp nyzty zk zj kyvzi ulkp kf triip zekf vwwvtk zj zeuzjgvejrscv. Zk zj
vdzevekcp gifgvi kyrk kyvp jyflcu vogcrze zk svwfiv kyv gvfgcv, rj nvcc rj
zccljkirkv zkj jgzizk ze kyv gviwfidretv fw kyvzi fwwztzrc ulkzvj.

Mvip uzwwvivek tfejzuvirkzfej rggcp kf kyv xivrkvi eldsvi fw kyfjv nyf wzcc
kyv jlsfiuzerkv gcrtvj ze kyv tzmzc jvimztv. Kyvzi ivjgfejzszczkp zj kf
kyvzi jlgvizfij ze fwwztzrc gfjzkzfe. Zk zj kyvzi ulkp kf fsvp kyv cvxrc
zejkiltkzfej fw kyfjv lgfe nyfd kyrk rlkyfizkp zj uvmfcmvu, reu kyvzi svjk
glsczt jvimztv tfejzjkj ze kyv uzjtyrixv fw kyvzi wletkzfej ziivjgvtkzmv fw
grikzjre gfczkztj. Kyvzi ulkzvj riv kyv jrdv nyrkvmvi grikp zj ze gfnvi reu
nyrkvmvi gfcztp givmrzcj. Rj r tfejvhlvetv zk wfccfnj kyrk kyvzi kveliv fw
fwwztv jyflcu efk uvgveu fe kyv givmrcvetv fw rep gfcztp fi kyv jlgivdrtp
fw rep grikp, slk jyflcu sv uvkvidzevu sp kyvzi trgrtzkp kf jvimv kyv
gvfgcv dfjk ljvwlccp hlzkv ziivjgvtkzmv fw grikzjre zekvivjkj. Kyv jrdv
tfejzuvirkzfej kyrk jyflcu xfmvie kyv kveliv jyflcu rcjf givmrzc ze kyv
rggfzekdvek, uzjtzgczev, reu ivdfmrc fw kyvjv jlsfiuzerkvj. Kyv rlkyfizkp
fw rggfzekdvek reu ivdfmrc zj efk r gvihlzjzkv, nyzty drp sv ljvu kf rzu r
wizveu fi ivnriu r grikzjre, slk zj r kiljk, kf sv vovitzjvu ze kyv glsczt
zekvivjk leuvi rcc kyv jretkzfej nyzty rkkveu kyv fsczxrkzfe kf rggcp kyv
glsczt wleuj fecp wfi glsczt gligfjvj.

Vmvip tzkzqve yrj re vhlrc izxyk kf kyv yfefi reu gifwzk fw vekvizex kyv
glsczt jvimztv fw yzj tflekip. Kyv fecp aljk xifleu fw uzjtizdzerkzfe zj
kyv dvrjliv fw tyrirtkvi reu trgrtzkp yv yrj kf drbv kyrk jvimztv dfjk
ljvwlc kf kyv gvfgcv. Votvgk ze trjvj nyviv, lgfe aljk reu ivtfxezqvu
gizetzgcvj--rj lgfe kyv kyvfip fw gvejzfej--fwwztvj reu gifdfkzfej riv
svjkfnvu rj ivnriuj wfi grjk jvimztvj, kyvzi svjkfnrc lgfe rep kyvfip nyzty
uzjivxriuj gvijferc dvizk zj re rtk fw zealjkztv kf kyv tzkzqve, rj nvcc rj
r sivrty fw kyrk kiljk jlsavtk kf nyzty kyv rggfzekzex gfnvi zj yvcu.

Ze kyv czxyk fw kyvjv gizetzgcvj zk svtfdvj fw xivrk zdgfikretv kf gifmzuv
aljk reu ruvhlrkv dvrej, vjgvtzrccp wfi vmvip Uvgrikdvek reu crixv
rudzezjkirkzmv fwwztv, nyviv gvijferc uzjtizdzerkzfe fe kyv grik fw zkj
yvru zj efk girtkztrscv, wfi rjtvikrzezex kyfjv hlrczwztrkzfej kf nyzty
rggfzekdvekj reu ivdfmrcj jyflcu yrmv ivwvivetv. Kf wrzc kf gifmzuv jlty
dvrej zj efk fecp kf uvep kyv fggfiklezkp fw rjtvikrzezex kyv wrtkj lgfe
nyzty kyv dfjk izxykvflj tcrzd kf fwwztv uvgveuj, slk fw evtvjjzkp kf
uzjtflirxv rcc nfikyp rjgzirekj sp yreuzex fmvi rggfzekdvekj reu ivdfmrcj
kf dviv zewclvetv reu wrmfizkzjd. Zw zk zj kyv izxyk fw kyv nfikyzvjk
tcrzdrek kf xrze kyv rggfzekdvek reu kyv zekvivjk fw kyv gvfgcv kf svjkfn
zk lgfe yzd, zk nflcu jvvd tcvri kyrk r nzjv reu aljk dvkyfu fw
rjtvikrzezex gvijferc wzkevjj wfi fwwztv dljk sv re zdgfikrek reu gvidrevek
wletkzfe fw vmvip aljk reu nzjv xfmviedvek. Zk yrj cfex jzetv svtfdv
zdgfjjzscv ze kyv xivrk fwwztvj wfi kyfjv yrmzex kyv ulkp fw efdzerkzfe reu
rggfzekdvek kf gvijferccp vordzev zekf kyv zeuzmzulrc hlrczwztrkzfej fw
dfiv kyre r jdrcc gifgfikzfe fw kyfjv jvvbzex fwwztv, reu nzky kyv
vecrixvdvek fw kyv tzmzc jvimztv kyrk gifgfikzfe dljk tfekzelv kf svtfdv
cvjj.

Ze kyv vriczvi pvrij fw kyv Xfmviedvek kyv jlsfiuzerkv fwwztvj nviv jf wvn
ze eldsvi kyrk zk nrj hlzkv vrjp wfi kyfjv drbzex rggfzekdvekj reu
gifdfkzfej kf gvijferccp rjtvikrze kyv dvizkj fw treuzurkvj. Grikp drerxvij
reu dvkyfuj yru efk kyve svtfdv gfnviwlc rxvetzvj fw tfvitzfe, yfjkzcv kf
kyv wivv reu aljk vovitzjv fw kyv rggfzekzex gfnvi.

R crixv reu ivjgfejzscv grik fw kyv ulkp fw ivjkfizex kyv tzmzc jvimztv kf
kyv uvjzivu glizkp reu vwwztzvetp ivjkj lgfe kyv Givjzuvek, reu zk zj dp
gligfjv kf uf nyrk zj nzkyze dp gfnvi kf rumretv jlty giluvek reu xirulrc
dvrjlivj fw ivwfid rj nzcc dfjk jlivcp reu irgzucp sizex rsflk kyrk iruztrc
tyrexv fw jpjkvd vjjvekzrc kf drbv fli rudzezjkirkzmv dvkyfuj jrkzjwrtkfip
kf r wivv reu zekvcczxvek gvfgcv. Sp r gifgvi vovitzjv fw rlkyfizkp zk zj
ze kyv gfnvi fw kyv Vovtlkzmv kf uf dlty kf gifdfkv jlty r ivwfid. Slk zk
tre efk sv kff tcvricp leuvijkffu kyrk efkyzex ruvhlrkv tre sv rttfdgczjyvu
nzkyflk tffgvirkzfe fe kyv grik fw Tfexivjj reu tfejzuvirkv reu zekvcczxvek
jlggfik rdfex kyv gvfgcv. Ivwfidj nyzty tyrccvexv kyv xvevirccp rttvgkvu
kyvfizvj fw grikzvj reu uvdreu tyrexvj ze kyv dvkyfuj fw Uvgrikdvekj riv
efk kyv nfib fw r urp. Kyvzi gvidrevek wfleurkzfej dljk sv crzu ze jfleu
gizetzgcvj reu ze re vogvizvetv nyzty uvdfejkirkvj kyvzi nzjufd reu vogfjvj
kyv viifij fw kyvzi rumvijrizvj. Vmvip nfikyp fwwztvi uvjzivj kf drbv yzj
fwwztzrc rtkzfe r xrze reu re yfefi kf yzj tflekip; slk kyv gvfgcv
kyvdjvcmvj, wri dfiv kyre kyvzi fwwztvij ze glsczt jkrkzfe, riv zekvivjkvu
ze r gliv, vtfefdztrc, reu mzxfiflj rudzezjkirkzfe.

Sp crnj vertkvu ze 1853 reu 1855, reu efn ze jlsjkretv zetfigfirkvu ze kyv
Ivmzjvu Jkrklkvj, kyv girtkztv fw riszkirip rggfzekdvekj kf kyv jvmvirc
jlsfiuzerkv xiruvj ze kyv xivrk Uvgrikdvekj nrj tfeuvdevu, reu vordzerkzfej
rj kf trgrtzkp, kf sv tfeultkvu sp uvgrikdvekrc sfriuj fw vordzevij, nviv
gifmzuvu wfi reu druv tfeuzkzfej fw rudzjjzfe kf kyv glsczt jvimztv. Kyvjv
jkrklkvj riv r uvtzjzfe sp Tfexivjj kyrk vordzerkzfej fw jfdv jfik rj kf
rkkrzedvekj reu trgrtzkp riv vjjvekzrc kf kyv nvcc-svzex fw kyv glsczt
jvimztv. Kyv zdgfikrek hlvjkzfej jzetv kyv vertkdvek fw kyvjv crnj yrmv
svve rj kf kyv tyrirtkvi fw kyvjv vordzerkzfej, reu nyvkyvi fwwztzrc wrmfi
reu grikzjre zewclvetv fi tfddfe izxyk reu dvizk nviv kf tfekifc kyv rttvjj
kf kyv vordzerkzfej. Ze girtkztv kyvjv vordzerkzfej yrmv efk rcnrpj svve
fgve kf nfikyp gvijfej xvevirccp nyf dzxyk nzjy kf sv vordzevu. Fwwztzrc
wrmfizkzjd reu grikzjre zewclvetv, rj r ilcv, rggvri kf yrmv uvjzxerkvu
kyfjv nyf rcfev nviv gvidzkkvu kf xf svwfiv kyv vordzezex sfriuj,
jlsavtkzex vmve kyv vordzevij kf r givjjliv wifd kyv wizveuj fw kyv
treuzurkvj mvip uzwwztlck kf ivjzjk. Rj r tfejvhlvetv kyv jkreuriu fw
rudzjjzfe wvcc svcfn kyrk nyzty kyv glsczt zekvivjk uvdreuvu. Zk nrj rcjf
rcdfjk zevmzkrscv kyrk r jpjkvd nyzty gifmzuvu wfi mrizflj jvgrirkv sfriuj
fw vordzevij, nzky ef tfddfe jlgvimzjzfe fi lezwfid dvkyfu fw giftvuliv,
jyflcu ivjlck ze tfewljzfe, zetfejzjkvetp, reu zeruvhlrkv kvjkj fw
trgrtzkp, yzxycp uvkizdvekrc kf kyv glsczt zekvivjk. R wlikyvi reu dfiv
iruztrc tyrexv nrj fsmzfljcp ivhlzivu.

Ze kyv reelrc dvjjrxv fw Uvtvdsvi, 1870, dp givuvtvjjfi uvtcrivu kyrk--
Kyviv zj ef ulkp nyzty jf dlty vdsriirjjvj kyv Vovtlkzmv reu yvruj fw
Uvgrikdvekj rj kyrk fw rggfzekdvekj, efi zj kyviv rep jlty riulflj reu
kyrebcvjj crsfi zdgfjvu fe Jverkfij reu Ivgivjvekrkzmvj rj kyrk fw wzeuzex
gcrtvj wfi tfejkzklvekj. Kyv givjvek jpjkvd ufvj efk jvtliv kyv svjk dve,
reu fwkve efk vmve wzk dve, wfi glsczt gcrtv. Kyv vcvmrkzfe reu
glizwztrkzfe fw kyv tzmzc jvimztv fw kyv Xfmviedvek nzcc sv yrzcvu nzky
rggifmrc sp kyv nyfcv gvfgcv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Tfexivjj rttfiuzexcp
grjjvu kyv rtk rggifmvu Drity 3, 1871, "kf ivxlcrkv kyv tzmzc jvimztv fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu gifdfkv kyv vwwztzvetp kyvivfw," xzmzex kyv evtvjjrip
rlkyfizkp kf kyv Vovtlkzmv kf zerlxlirkv r tzmzc-jvimztv ivwfid.

Rtkzex leuvi kyzj jkrklkv, nyzty nrj zekvigivkvu rj zekveuvu kf jvtliv r
jpjkvd fw aljk reu vwwvtklrc vordzerkzfej leuvi lezwfid jlgvimzjzfe, r
eldsvi fw vdzevekcp tfdgvkvek gvijfej nviv jvcvtkvu wfi kyv gligfjv, nyf
vekvivu nzky qvrc lgfe kyv uzjtyrixv fw kyvzi ulkzvj, givgrivu nzky re
zekvcczxvek rggivtzrkzfe fw kyv ivhlzivdvekj fw kyv jvimztv kyv ivxlcrkzfej
tfekvdgcrkvu, reu kffb tyrixv fw kyv vordzerkzfej, reu nyf ze kyvzi
trgrtzkp rj r sfriu yrmv svve befne rj kyv "Tzmzc Jvimztv Tfddzjjzfe."
Tfexivjj wfi knf pvrij rggifgizrkvu kyv dfevp evvuvu wfi kyv tfdgvejrkzfe
reu wfi kyv vogvejv fw triipzex fe kyv nfib fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe.

Zk rggvrij wifd kyv ivgfik fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Givjzuvek ze
Rgizc, 1874, kyrk vordzerkzfej yru svve yvcu ze mrizflj jvtkzfej fw kyv
tflekip, reu kyrk re rggifgizrkzfe fw rsflk $25,000 nflcu sv ivhlzivu kf
dvvk kyv reelrc vogvejvj, zetcluzex jrcrizvj, zemfcmvu ze uzjtyrixzex kyv
ulkzvj fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe. Kyv ivgfik nrj kirejdzkkvu kf Tfexivjj sp jgvtzrc
dvjjrxv fw Rgizc 18, 1874, nzky kyv wfccfnzex wrmfirscv tfddvek lgfe kyv
crsfij fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe: Zw jljkrzevu sp Tfexivjj, Z yrmv ef uflsk kyv
ilcvj tre, rwkvi kyv vogvizvetv xrzevu, sv jf zdgifmvu reu vewfitvu rj kf
jkzcc dfiv drkvizrccp svevwzk kyv glsczt jvimztv reu ivczvmv kyv Vovtlkzmv,
dvdsvij fw Tfexivjj, reu kyv yvruj fw Uvgrikdvekj wifd zewclvetvj
givaluztzrc kf xffu rudzezjkirkzfe. Kyv ilcvj, rj kyvp yrmv yzkyvikf svve
vewfitvu, yrmv ivjlckvu svevwztzrccp, rj zj jyfne sp kyv fgzezfej fw kyv
dvdsvij fw kyv Trszevk reu kyvzi jlsfiuzerkvj ze kyv Uvgrikdvekj, reu ze
kyrk fgzezfe Z tfetli. Reu ze kyv reelrc dvjjrxv fw Uvtvdsvi fw kyv jrdv
pvri jzdzcri mzvnj riv vogivjjvu reu re rggifgizrkzfe wfi tfekzelzex kyv
nfib fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe rxrze rumzjvu.

Kyv rggifgizrkzfe nrj efk druv, reu rj r tfejvhlvetv kyv rtkzmv nfib fw kyv
Tfddzjjzfe nrj jljgveuvu, cvrmzex kyv Tfddzjjzfe zkjvcw jkzcc ze vozjkvetv.
Nzkyflk kyv dvrej, kyvivwfiv, fw trljzex hlrczwztrkzfej kf sv kvjkvu ze rep
jpjkvdrkzt dreevi fi fw jvtlizex wfi kyv glsczt jvimztv kyv rumrekrxvj fw
tfdgvkzkzfe lgfe rep vokvejzmv gcre, Z ivtfddveuvu ze dp reelrc dvjjrxv fw
Uvtvdsvi, 1877, kyv drbzex fw re rggifgizrkzfe wfi kyv ivjldgkzfe fw kyv
nfib fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe.

Ze kyv dvrekzdv, yfnvmvi, tfdgvkzkzmv vordzerkzfej, leuvi drep
vdsriirjjdvekj, yrmv svve tfeultkvu nzkyze czdzkvu jgyvivj ze kyv Vovtlkzmv
Uvgrikdvekj ze Nrjyzexkfe reu ze r eldsvi fw kyv tljkfd-yfljvj reu
gfjk-fwwztvj fw kyv gizetzgrc tzkzvj fw kyv tflekip, nzky r mzvn kf wlikyvi
kvjk kyvzi vwwvtkj, reu ze vmvip zejkretv kyvp yrmv svve wfleu kf sv rj
jrclkrip rj kyvp riv jkrkvu kf yrmv svve leuvi kyv Rudzezjkirkzfe fw dp
givuvtvjjfi. Z kyzeb kyv vtfefdp, glizkp, reu vwwztzvetp fw kyv glsczt
jvimztv nflcu sv xivrkcp gifdfkvu sp kyvzi jpjkvdrkzt zekifultkzfe,
nyvivmvi girtkztrscv, kyiflxyflk kyv vekziv tzmzc jvimztv fw kyv
Xfmviedvek, kfxvkyvi nzky rdgcv gifmzjzfe wfi kyvzi xvevirc jlgvimzjzfe ze
fiuvi kf jvtliv tfejzjkvetp reu lezwfid aljkztv.

Ivgfikj wifd kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi, wifd kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc,
wifd kyv gfjkdrjkvi ze kyv tzkp fw Evn Pfib, nyviv jlty vordzerkzfej yrmv
svve jfdv kzdv fe kizrc, reu rcjf wifd kyv tfccvtkfi fw kyv gfik, kyv ermrc
fwwztvi, reu kyv jlimvpfi ze kyrk tzkp, reu wifd kyv gfjkdrjkvij reu
tfccvtkfij ze jvmvirc fw kyv fkyvi crixv tzkzvj, jyfn kyrk kyv tfdgvkzkzmv
jpjkvd, nyviv rggczvu, yrj ze mrizflj nrpj tfekizslkvu kf zdgifmv kyv
glsczt jvimztv.

Kyv ivgfikj jyfn kyrk kyv ivjlckj yrmv svve jrclkrip ze r dribvu uvxivv,
reu kyrk kyv xvevirc rggcztrkzfe fw jzdzcri ilcvj tre efk wrzc kf sv fw
uvtzuvu svevwzk kf kyv jvimztv.

Kyv ivgfikj fw kyv Xfmviedvek fwwztvij, ze kyv tzkp fw Evn Pfib vjgvtzrccp,
svri uvtzuvu kvjkzdfep kf kyv lkzczkp fw fgve tfdgvkzkzmv vordzerkzfej ze
kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv fwwztvj, jyfnzex kyrk--Kyvjv vordzerkzfej reu kyv
votvccvek hlrczwztrkzfej fw kyfjv rudzkkvu kf kyv jvimztv kyiflxy kyvd yrmv
yru r dribvu zetzuvekrc vwwvtk lgfe kyv gvijfej givmzfljcp ze kyv jvimztv,
reu grikztlcricp lgfe kyfjv rjgzizex kf gifdfkzfe. Kyviv yrj svve fe kyv
grik fw kyvjv crkkvi re zetivrjvu zekvivjk ze kyv nfib reu r uvjziv kf
vokveu rthlrzekretv nzky zk svpfeu kyv grikztlcri uvjb fttlgzvu, reu kylj
kyv dfircv fw kyv vekziv wfitv yrj svve irzjvu. Kyv vordzerkzfej yrmv svve
rkkveuvu sp drep tzkzqvej, nyf yrmv yru re fggfiklezkp kf kyfiflxycp
zemvjkzxrkv kyv jtfgv reu tyrirtkvi fw kyv kvjkj reu kyv dvkyfu fw
uvkvidzezex kyv ivjlckj, reu kyfjv mzjzkfij yrmv nzkyflk votvgkzfe rggifmvu
kyv dvkyfuj vdgcfpvu, reu jvmvirc fw kyvd yrmv glscztcp rkkvjkvu kyvzi
wrmfirscv fgzezfe. Lgfe jlty tfejzuvirkzfej Z uvvd zk dp ulkp kf ivevn kyv
ivtfddveurkzfe tfekrzevu ze dp reelrc dvjjrxv fw Uvtvdsvi, 1877, ivhlvjkzex
Tfexivjj kf drbv kyv evtvjjrip rggifgizrkzfe wfi kyv ivjldgkzfe fw kyv nfib
fw kyv Tzmzc Jvimztv Tfddzjjzfe. Vtfefdp nzcc sv gifdfkvu sp rlkyfizqzex r
dfuvirkv tfdgvejrkzfe kf gvijfej ze kyv glsczt jvimztv nyf drp gviwfid
vokir crsfi lgfe fi leuvi kyv Tfddzjjzfe, rj kyv Vovtlkzmv drp uzivtk.

Z rd tfemzetvu kyrk zw r aljk reu ruvhlrkv kvjk fw dvizk zj vewfitvu wfi
rudzjjzfe kf kyv glsczt jvimztv reu ze drbzex gifdfkzfej jlty rsljvj rj
ivdfmrcj nzkyflk xffu trljv reu grikzjre reu fwwztzrc zekviwvivetv nzky kyv
gifgvi vovitzjv fw kyv rggfzekzex gfnvi nzcc ze crixv dvrjliv uzjrggvri.

Kyviv riv fkyvi rudzezjkirkzmv rsljvj kf nyzty kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj
jyflcu sv rjbvu ze kyzj tfeevtkzfe. Dviv grikzjre rggfzekdvekj reu kyv
tfejkrek gvizc fw ivdfmrc nzkyflk trljv mvip erklirccp cvru kf re rsjfiszex
reu dzjtyzvmflj gfczkztrc rtkzmzkp fe kyv grik fw kyfjv kylj rggfzekvu,
nyzty efk fecp zekviwvivj nzky kyv ulv uzjtyrixv fw fwwztzrc ulkp, slk zj
zetfdgrkzscv nzky kyv wivvufd fw vcvtkzfej. Efk nzkyflk nriirek ze kyv
mzvnj fw jvmvirc fw dp givuvtvjjfij ze kyv Givjzuvekzrc fwwztv, reu
uzivtkcp nzkyze kyv crn fw 1871, rcivrup tzkvu, Z veuvrmfivu, sp ivxlcrkzfe
druv fe kyv 22u urp fw Alev, 1877, kf glk jfdv ivrjferscv czdzkj kf jlty
rsljvj. Zk drp efk sv vrjp, reu zk drp evmvi gviyrgj sv evtvjjrip, kf
uvwzev nzky givtzjzfe kyv gifgvi czdzk fw gfczkztrc rtkzfe fe kyv grik fw
Wvuvirc fwwztvij. Slk nyzcv kyvzi izxyk kf yfcu reu wivvcp vogivjj kyvzi
fgzezfej tre efk sv hlvjkzfevu, zk zj mvip gcrze kyrk kyvp jyflcu evzkyvi
sv rccfnvu kf uvmfkv kf fkyvi jlsavtkj kyv kzdv evvuvu wfi kyv gifgvi
uzjtyrixv fw kyvzi fwwztzrc ulkzvj efi kf ljv kyv rlkyfizkp fw kyvzi fwwztv
kf vewfitv kyvzi fne fgzezfej fi kf tfvitv kyv gfczkztrc rtkzfe fw kyfjv
nyf yfcu uzwwvivek fgzezfej.

Ivrjfej fw aljkztv reu glsczt gfcztp hlzkv rercfxflj kf kyfjv nyzty wfiszu
kyv ljv fw fwwztzrc gfnvi wfi kyv fggivjjzfe fw kyv gizmrkv tzkzqve zdgfjv
lgfe kyv Xfmviedvek kyv ulkp fw gifkvtkzex zkj fwwztvij reu rxvekj wifd
riszkirip vortkzfej. Ze nyrkvmvi rjgvtk tfejzuvivu, kyv girtkztv fw drbzex
cvmzvj wfi grikp gligfjvj lgfe kyv jrcrizvj fw fwwztvij zj yzxycp
uvdfirczqzex kf kyv glsczt jvimztv reu uzjtivuzkrscv kf kyv tflekip. Kyflxy
re fwwztvi jyflcu sv rj wivv rj rep fkyvi tzkzqve kf xzmv yzj fne dfevp ze
rzu fw yzj fgzezfej fi yzj grikp, yv jyflcu rcjf sv rj wivv rj rep fkyvi
tzkzqve kf ivwljv kf drbv jlty xzwkj. Zw jrcrizvj riv slk r wrzi
tfdgvejrkzfe wfi kyv kzdv reu crsfi fw kyv fwwztvi, zk zj xifjj zealjkztv
kf cvmp r kro lgfe kyvd. Zw kyvp riv druv votvjjzmv ze fiuvi kyrk kyvp drp
svri kyv kro, kyv votvjj zj re zeuzivtk ifssvip fw kyv glsczt wleuj.

Z ivtfddveu, kyvivwfiv, jlty r ivmzjzfe reu vokvejzfe fw givjvek jkrklkvj
rj jyrcc jvtliv kf kyfjv ze vmvip xiruv fw fwwztzrc czwv fi glsczt
vdgcfpdvek kyv gifkvtkzfe nzky nyzty r xivrk reu veczxykvevu erkzfe jyflcu
xlriu kyfjv nyf riv wrzkywlc ze zkj jvimztv.

Fli ivcrkzfej nzky wfivzxe tflekizvj yrmv tfekzelvu gvrtvwlc.

Nzky Xivrk Sizkrze kyviv riv jkzcc lejvkkcvu hlvjkzfej, xifnzex flk fw kyv
cftrc crnj fw kyv drizkzdv gifmzetvj reu kyv rtkzfe fw gifmzetzrc
rlkyfizkzvj uvvdvu kf sv ze uvifxrkzfe fw izxykj jvtlivu sp kivrkp kf
Rdviztre wzjyvidve. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj dzezjkvi ze Cfeufe yrj svve
zejkiltkvu kf givjvek r uvdreu wfi $105,305.02 ze mzvn fw kyv urdrxvj
ivtvzmvu sp Rdviztre tzkzqvej rk Wfiklev Srp fe kyv 6ky urp fw Arelrip,
1878. Kyv jlsavtk yrj svve krbve zekf tfejzuvirkzfe sp kyv Sizkzjy
Xfmviedvek, reu re vricp ivgcp zj rekztzgrkvu.

Lgfe kyv tfdgcvkzfe fw kyv evtvjjrip givczdzerip vordzerkzfej kyv jlsavtk
fw fli grikztzgrkzfe ze kyv gifmzetzrc wzjyvizvj, rj ivxlcrkvu sp kivrkp,
nzcc rk fetv sv siflxyk kf kyv rkkvekzfe fw kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek, nzky r
mzvn kf re vricp reu gvidrevek jvkkcvdvek fw kyv nyfcv hlvjkzfe, nyzty nrj
fecp kvdgfirizcp rualjkvu sp kyv kivrkp fw Nrjyzexkfe.

Vwwfikj yrmv svve druv kf fskrze kyv ivdfmrc fw ivjkiztkzfej wfleu
zealizflj kf kyv vogfikrkzfe fw trkkcv kf kyv Lezkvu Bzexufd.

Jfdv tfiivjgfeuvetv yrj rcjf fttliivu nzky ivxriu kf kyv ivjtlv reu jrmzex
fw czwv reu gifgvikp lgfe kyv Crbvj, nyzty yrj ivjlckvu ze zdgfikrek
dfuzwztrkzfej fw kyv givmzflj ivxlcrkzfej fw kyv Ufdzezfe xfmviedvek fe kyv
jlsavtk ze kyv zekvivjk fw yldrezkp reu tfddvitv.

Ze rttfiuretv nzky kyv afzek ivjfclkzfe fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj,
tfddzjjzfevij nviv rggfzekvu kf ivgivjvek kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rk kyv knf
zekvierkzferc voyzszkzfej ze Rljkirczr, fev fw nyzty zj efn ze gifxivjj rk
Jpuevp, reu kyv fkyvi kf sv yvcu evok pvri rk Dvcsfliev. R uvjziv yrj svve
vogivjjvu sp fli dvityrekj reu drelwrtklivij zekvivjkvu ze kyv zdgfikrek
reu xifnzex kiruv nzky Rljkirczr kyrk re zetivrjvu gifmzjzfe jyflcu sv druv
sp Tfexivjj wfi kyv ivgivjvekrkzfe fw fli zeuljkizvj rk kyv Dvcsfliev
voyzszkzfe fw evok pvri, reu kyv jlsavtk zj ivjgvtkwlccp jlsdzkkvu kf pfli
wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe.

Kyv rjjvek fw kyv Xfmviedvek yrj svve xzmve kf kyv creuzex fe kyv tfrjk fw
Drjjrtyljvkkj fw r evn reu zeuvgveuvek kirejrkcrekzt trscv svknvve Wiretv,
sp nrp fw kyv Wivety zjcreu fw Jk. Gzviiv, reu kyzj tflekip, jlsavtk kf rep
wlkliv cvxzjcrkzfe fw Tfexivjj fe kyv jlsavtk. Kyv tfeuzkzfej zdgfjvu
svwfiv rccfnzex kyzj tfeevtkzfe nzky fli jyfivj kf sv vjkrsczjyvu riv jlty
rj kf jvtliv zkj tfdgvkzkzfe nzky rep vozjkzex fi wlkliv czevj fw drizev
trscv reu givtcluv rdrcxrdrkzfe kyvivnzky, kf gifmzuv wfi vekziv vhlrczkp
fw izxykj kf fli Xfmviedvek reu gvfgcv nzky kyfjv fw Wiretv ze kyv ljv fw
kyv trscv, reu givmvek rep votcljzmv gfjjvjjzfe fw kyv gizmzcvxv rj
rttfiuvu sp Wiretv kf kyv uzjrumrekrxv fw rep wlkliv trscv tfddleztrkzfe
svknvve Wiretv reu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nyzty drp sv gifavtkvu reu
rttfdgczjyvu sp fli tzkzqvej. Re zdgfikrek ivultkzfe fw kyv givjvek irkvj
fw trscv tfddleztrkzfe nzky Vlifgv, wvck kf sv kff sliuvejfdv kf kyv
zekvivjkj fw fli tfddvitv, dljk evtvjjrizcp wcfn wifd kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw
kyzj tfdgvkzex czev.

Kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj nrj uirne kf kyv gifgizvkp fw jfdv xvevirc
ivxlcrkzfe sp Tfexivjj fw kyv nyfcv jlsavtk fw kirejdrizev trscvj sp dp
givuvtvjjfi ze yzj dvjjrxv fw Uvtvdsvi 7, 1875, reu Z ivjgvtkwlccp jlsdzk
kf pfli tfejzuvirkzfe kyv zdgfikretv fw Tfexivjjzferc rtkzfe ze kyv
drkkvi.

Kyv hlvjkzfej fw xirmv zdgfikretv nzky Jgrze xifnzex flk fw kyv zetzuvekj
fw kyv Tlsre zejliivtkzfe yrmv svve wfi kyv dfjk grik yrggzcp reu yfefirscp
jvkkcvu. Zk drp ivrjferscp sv rekztzgrkvu kyrk kyv tfddzjjzfe efn jzkkzex
ze Nrjyzexkfe wfi kyv uvtzjzfe fw gizmrkv trjvj ze kyzj tfeevtkzfe nzcc
jffe sv rscv kf sizex zkj crsfij kf r tfetcljzfe.

Kyv cfex-jkreuzex hlvjkzfe fw Vrjk Wcfizur tcrzdj yrj crkvcp svve ivevnvu
rj r jlsavtk fw tfiivjgfeuvetv, reu drp gfjjzscp ivhlziv Tfexivjjzferc
rtkzfe wfi zkj wzerc uzjgfjzkzfe.

R kivrkp nzky kyv Evkyvicreuj nzky ivjgvtk kf tfejlcri izxykj reu
gizmzcvxvj jzdzcri kf kyfjv nzky fkyvi gfnvij yrj svve jzxevu reu irkzwzvu,
reu kyv irkzwztrkzfej nviv votyrexvu fe kyv 31jk fw Alcp crjk. Evxfkzrkzfej
wfi vokiruzkzfe kivrkzvj nzky kyv Evkyvicreuj reu nzky Uvedrib riv efn ze
gifxivjj.

Jfdv hlvjkzfej nzky Jnzkqvicreu ze ivxriu kf grlgvi reu tfemztk vdzxirekj
yrmv rizjve, slk zk zj efk uflskvu kyrk kyvp nzcc sv riirexvu lgfe r aljk
reu jrkzjwrtkfip srjzj. R hlvjkzfe yrj rcjf fttliivu nzky ivjgvtk kf re
rjjvikvu tcrzd sp Jnzjj dleztzgrc rlkyfizkzvj kf vovitzjv klkvcrxv fmvi
gvijfej reu gifgvikp fw Jnzjj tzkzqvej erklirczqvu ze kyzj tflekip. Zk zj
gfjjzscv kyzj drp ivhlziv rualjkdvek sp kivrkp.

Nzky kyv Xvidre Vdgziv wivhlvek hlvjkzfej rizjv ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyv
Jlsavtkj fw erklirczqrkzfe reu vogrkizrkzfe, slk kyv Zdgvizrc Xfmviedvek
yrj tfejkrekcp drezwvjkvu r uvjziv kf jkiztkcp drzekrze reu tfdgcp nzky rcc
kivrkp jkzglcrkzfej ze ivxriu kf kyvd.

Ze tfejvhlvetv fw kyv fdzjjzfe fw Tfexivjj kf gifmzuv wfi r uzgcfdrkzt
ivgivjvekrkzmv rk Rkyvej, kyv cvxrkzfe kf Xivvtv yrj svve nzkyuirne. Kyviv
zj efn ef tyreevc fw uzgcfdrkzt tfddleztrkzfe svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj,
reu kyv vogvuzvetp fw gifmzuzex wfi fev ze jfdv wfid zj jlsdzkkvu kf
Tfexivjj.

Ivcrkzfej nzky Rljkizr, Iljjzr, Zkrcp, Gfiklxrc, Klibvp, reu Svcxzld
tfekzelv rdztrscv, reu dribvu sp ef zetzuvek fw vjgvtzrc zdgfikretv.

R tyrexv fw kyv gvijferc yvru fw kyv Xfmviedvek fw Vxpgk yrj krbve gcrtv.
Ef tyrexv, yfnvmvi, yrj fttliivu ze kyv ivcrkzfej svknvve Vxpgk reu kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Kyv rtkzfe fw kyv Vxpgkzre Xfmviedvek ze givjvekzex kf kyv
tzkp fw Evn Pfib fev fw kyv retzvek fsvczjbj, nyzty gfjjvjj jlty yzjkfizt
zekvivjk, zj yzxycp rggivtzrkvu rj r xveviflj drib fw zekvierkzferc ivxriu.
Zw gifjgvizkp jyflcu rkkveu kyv vekvigizjv fw zkj kirejgfikrkzfe rtifjj kyv
Rkcrekzt, zkj vivtkzfe ze r tfejgztlflj gfjzkzfe ze kyv tyzvw tfddvitzrc
tzkp fw kyv erkzfe nzcc jffe sv rttfdgczjyvu.

Kyv kivrkp ivtvekcp druv svknvve Argre reu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze ivxriu kf
kyv ivmzjzfe fw wfidvi tfddvitzrc kivrkzvj zk zj efn svczvmvu nzcc sv
wfccfnvu sp jzdzcri rtkzfe fe kyv grik fw fkyvi kivrkp gfnvij. Kyv
rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj zj rxrze zemzkvu kf kyv jlsavtk fw kyv zeuvdezkp
wleuj ivtvzmvu jfdv pvrij jzetv wifd Argre reu Tyzer, nyzty, nzky kyvzi
rttldlcrkvu zekvivjk, efn rdflek kf tfejzuvirscv jldj. Zw rep grik fw kyvjv
wleuj zj aljkcp ulv kf Rdviztre tzkzqvej, kyvp jyflcu ivtvzmv zk gifdgkcp;
reu nyrkvmvi drp yrmv svve ivtvzmvu sp kyzj Xfmviedvek ze votvjj fw
jkiztkcp aljk uvdreuj jyflcu ze jfdv wfid sv ivklievu kf kyv erkzfej kf
nyfd zk vhlzkrscp svcfexj.

Kyv Xfmviedvek fw Tyzer yrj jzxezwzvu zkj nzcczexevjj kf tfejzuvi kyv
hlvjkzfe fw kyv vdzxirkzfe fw zkj jlsavtkj kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nzky r
uzjgrjjzferkv wrzievjj reu kf tffgvirkv ze jlty dvrjlivj rj drp kveu kf
givmvek zealizflj tfejvhlvetvj kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Kyv evxfkzrkzfej riv
jkzcc giftvvuzex, reu nzcc sv givjjvu nzky uzczxvetv.

R hlvjkzfe yrmzex rizjve svknvve Tyzer reu Argre rsflk kyv Cvn Tyvn
Zjcreuj, kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Xfmviedvek yrj krbve dvrjlivj kf zewfid kyfjv
gfnvij fw zkj ivruzevjj kf vokveu zkj xffu fwwztvj wfi kyv drzekveretv fw
gvrtv zw kyvp jyrcc dlklrccp uvvd zk uvjzirscv reu wzeu zk girtkztrscv kf
rmrzc kyvdjvcmvj fw kyv gifwwvi.

Zk zj r xirkzwztrkzfe kf sv rscv kf reefletv kyrk, kyiflxy kyv aluztzflj
reu vevixvkzt rtkzfe fw kyv dzczkrip tfddreuvij fw kyv knf erkzfej fe vrty
jzuv fw kyv Izf Xireuv, leuvi kyv zejkiltkzfej fw kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv
Xfmviedvekj, irzuj reu uvgivurkzfej yrmv xivrkcp uvtivrjvu, reu ze kyv
cftrczkzvj nyviv wfidvicp dfjk uvjkiltkzmv yrmv efn rcdfjk nyfccp tvrjvu.
Ze mzvn fw kyzj ivjlck, Z vekvikrze r tfewzuvek vogvtkrkzfe kyrk kyv
givmrcvetv fw hlzvk fe kyv sfiuvi nzcc jffe svtfdv jf rjjlivu rj kf aljkzwp
r dfuzwztrkzfe fw kyv givjvek fiuvij kf fli dzczkrip tfddreuvij rj kf
tifjjzex kyv sfiuvi, nzkyflk vetflirxzex jlty uzjklisretvj rj nflcu
veurexvi kyv gvrtv fw kyv knf tflekizvj.

Kyv kyziu zejkrccdvek fw kyv rnriu rxrzejk Dvoztf leuvi kyv tcrzdj
tfddzjjzfe fw Alcp 4, 1868, nrj ulcp grzu, reu yrj svve glk ze tflijv fw
uzjkizslkzfe ze glijlretv fw kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj gifmzuzex wfi kyv jrdv.
Kyzj jrkzjwrtkfip jzklrkzfe svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj cvruj dv kf
rekztzgrkv re vogrejzfe fw fli kiruv nzky Dvoztf reu re zetivrjvu
tfekizslkzfe fw trgzkrc reu zeuljkip sp fli gvfgcv kf kyv uvmvcfgdvek fw
kyv xivrk ivjflitvj fw kyrk tflekip. Z vrievjkcp tfddveu kf kyv nzjufd fw
Tfexivjj kyv gifmzjzfe fw jlzkrscv cvxzjcrkzfe cffbzex kf kyzj ivjlck.

Uzgcfdrkzt zekvitflijv nzky Tfcfdszr zj rxrze wlccp ivjkfivu sp kyv riizmrc
fw r dzezjkvi wifd kyrk tflekip kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Kyzj zj vjgvtzrccp
wfiklerkv ze mzvn fw kyv wrtk kyrk kyv hlvjkzfe fw re zekvi-ftvrezt trerc
yrj ivtvekcp rjjldvu r evn reu zdgfikrek rjgvtk reu zj efn leuvi uzjtljjzfe
nzky kyv Tvekirc Rdviztre tflekizvj kyiflxy nyfjv kviizkfip kyv trerc, sp
kyv Eztrirxlr iflkv, nflcu yrmv kf grjj. Zk zj kiljkvu kyrk veczxykvevu
jkrkvjdrejyzg fe kyvzi grik nzcc jvv kyrk kyv vricp gifjvtlkzfe fw jlty r
nfib nzcc crixvcp zeliv kf kyv svevwzk, efk fecp fw kyvzi fne tzkzqvej reu
kyfjv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, slk fw kyv tfddvitv fw kyv tzmzczqvu nficu. Zk
zj efk uflskvu kyrk jyflcu kyv nfib sv leuvikrbve leuvi kyv gifkvtkzmv
rljgztvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu lgfe jrkzjwrtkfip tfetvjjzfej wfi kyv
izxyk fw nrp reu zkj jvtlizkp sp kyv Tvekirc Rdviztre Xfmviedvekj, kyv
trgzkrc wfi zkj tfdgcvkzfe nflcu sv ivruzcp wliezjyvu wifd kyzj tflekip reu
Vlifgv, nyzty dzxyk, wrzczex jlty xlrirekzvj, gifmv zerttvjjzscv.

Uzgcfdrkzt ivcrkzfej nzky Tyzcv yrmv rcjf svve jkivexkyvevu sp kyv
ivtvgkzfe fw r dzezjkvi wifd kyrk tflekip.

Kyv nri svknvve Gvil, Sfczmzr, reu Tyzcv jkzcc tfekzelvj. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
yrmv efk uvvdvu zk gifgvi kf zekvigfjv ze kyv drkkvi wlikyvi kyre kf tfemvp
kf rcc kyv Xfmviedvekj tfetvievu kyv rjjliretv kyrk kyv wizveucp fwwztvj fw
kyv Xfmviedvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj wfi kyv ivjkfirkzfe fw gvrtv lgfe re
yfefirscv srjzj nzcc sv vokveuvu ze trjv kyv svcczxvivekj jyrcc voyzszk r
ivruzevjj kf rttvgk kyvd.

Tfiuzrc ivcrkzfej tfekzelv nzky Sirqzc reu kyv Rixvekzev Ivglsczt, reu
kiruv nzky kyfjv tflekizvj zj zdgifmzex. R gifmzjzfe wfi ivxlcri reu dfiv
wivhlvek drzc tfddleztrkzfe, ze fli fne jyzgj, svknvve kyv gfikj fw kyzj
tflekip reu kyv erkzfej fw Jflky Rdviztr jvvdj kf dv kf uvjvimv kyv
rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj rj re vjjvekzrc givtlijfi fw re vecrixvdvek fw fli
tfddvitv nzky kyvd reu re vokvejzfe fw fli triipzex kiruv.

R ivtvek ivmfclkzfe ze Mvevqlvcr yrj svve wfccfnvu sp kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw
r gifmzjzferc xfmviedvek. Kyzj xfmviedvek yrj efk pvk svve wfidrccp
ivtfxezqvu, reu zk zj uvvdvu uvjzirscv kf rnrzk kyv gifgfjvu rtkzfe fw kyv
gvfgcv nyzty zj vogvtkvu kf xzmv zk kyv jretkzfe fw tfejkzklkzferc wfidj.

R ermrc mvjjvc yrj svve jvek kf kyv Jrdfre Zjcreuj kf drbv jlimvpj reu krbv
gfjjvjjzfe fw kyv gizmzcvxvj tvuvu kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj sp Jrdfr ze kyv
yrisfi fw Grxf-Grxf. R tfrczex jkrkzfe zj kf sv vjkrsczjyvu kyviv, nyzty
nzcc sv tfemvezvek reu ljvwlc kf Lezkvu Jkrkvj mvjjvcj.

Kyv jlsavtk fw fgvezex uzgcfdrkzt ivcrkzfej nzky Ifldrezr reu Jvimzr, efn
svtfdv zeuvgveuvek jfmvivzxekzvj, zj rk givjvek leuvi tfejzuvirkzfe, reu zj
kyv jlsavtk fw uzgcfdrkzt tfiivjgfeuvetv.

Kyviv zj r xirkzwpzex zetivrjv fw kiruv nzky evricp rcc Vlifgvre reu
Rdviztre tflekizvj, reu zk zj svczvmvu kyrk nzky aluztzflj rtkzfe ze ivxriu
kf zkj uvmvcfgdvek zk tre reu nzcc sv jkzcc dfiv veyretvu reu kyrk Rdviztre
gifultkj reu drelwrtklivj nzcc wzeu evn reu vogreuzex dribvkj. Kyv ivgfikj
fw uzgcfdrkzt reu tfejlcri fwwztvij lgfe kyzj jlsavtk, leuvi kyv jpjkvd efn
rufgkvu, yrmv ivjlckvu ze fskrzezex dlty mrclrscv zewfidrkzfe, nyzty yrj
svve reu nzcc tfekzelv kf sv crzu svwfiv Tfexivjj reu kyv glsczt wifd kzdv
kf kzdv.

Kyv kyziu rikztcv fw kyv kivrkp nzky Iljjzr fw Drity 30, 1867, sp nyzty
Rcrjbr nrj tvuvu kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, gifmzuvj kyrk kyv zeyrszkrekj fw kyv
tvuvu kviizkfip, nzky kyv votvgkzfe fw kyv letzmzczqvu erkzmv kizsvj, jyrcc
sv rudzkkvu kf kyv veafpdvek fw rcc kyv izxykj fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj reu jyrcc sv drzekrzevu reu gifkvtkvu ze kyv wivv veafpdvek fw kyvzi
czsvikp, gifgvikp, reu ivczxzfe. Kyv letzmzczqvu kizsvj riv jlsavtk kf jlty
crnj reu ivxlcrkzfej rj kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj drp wifd kzdv kf kzdv rufgk ze
ivxriu kf kyv rsfizxzerc kizsvj fw kyrk tflekip.

Sfky kyv fsczxrkzfej fw kyzj kivrkp reu kyv evtvjjzkzvj fw kyv gvfgcv
ivhlziv kyrk jfdv fixrezqvu wfid fw xfmviedvek fmvi kyv Kviizkfip fw Rcrjbr
sv rufgkvu.

Kyviv rggvrij kf sv ef crn wfi kyv riivjk fw gvijfej tyrixvu nzky
tfddfe-crn fwwvejvj, jlty rj rjjrlck, ifssvip, reu dliuvi, reu ef
drxzjkirkv rlkyfizqvu kf zjjlv fi vovtlkv giftvjj ze jlty trjvj. Jvizflj
uzwwztlckzvj yrmv rcivrup rizjve wifd fwwvejvj fw kyzj tyrirtkvi, efk fecp
rdfex kyv fizxzerc zeyrszkrekj, slk rdfex tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu
fkyvi tflekizvj nyf yrmv vexrxvu ze dzezex, wzjyzex, reu fkyvi sljzevjj
fgvirkzfej nzkyze kyv kviizkfip. R szcc rlkyfizqzex kyv rggfzekdvek fw
aljkztvj fw kyv gvrtv reu tfejkrscvj reu kyv riivjk reu uvkvekzfe fw
gvijfej tyrixvu nzky tizdzerc fwwvejvj, reu gifmzuzex wfi re rggvrc kf
Lezkvu Jkrkvj tflikj wfi kyv uzjkiztk fw Fivxfe ze jlzkrscv trjvj, nzcc rk
r gifgvi kzdv sv jlsdzkkvu kf Tfexivjj.

Kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj zj trccvu kf kyv reelrc ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip
fw kyv Kivrjlip fe kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv glsczt wzeretvj.

Kyv fiuzerip ivmvelvj wifd rcc jflitvj wfi kyv wzjtrc pvri veuvu Alev 30,
1879, nviv $273,827,184.46; kyv fiuzerip vogveuzklivj wfi kyv jrdv gvizfu
nviv $266,947,883.53, cvrmzex r jligclj ivmvelv wfi kyv pvri fw
$6,879,300.93.

Kyv ivtvzgkj wfi kyv givjvek wzjtrc pvri, veuzex Alev 30, 1880, rtklrc reu
vjkzdrkvu, riv rj wfccfnj: Rtklrc ivtvzgkj wfi kyv wzijk hlrikvi,
tfddvetzex Alcp 1, 1879, $79,843,663.61; vjkzdrkvu ivtvzgkj wfi kyv
ivdrzezex kyivv hlrikvij fw kyv pvri, $208,156,336.39; kfkrc ivtvzgkj wfi
kyv tliivek wzjtrc pvri, rtklrc reu vjkzdrkvu, $288,000,000.

Kyv vogveuzklivj wfi kyv jrdv gvizfu nzcc sv, rtklrc reu vjkzdrkvu, rj
wfccfnj: Wfi kyv hlrikvi tfddvetzex Alcp 1, 1879, rtklrc vogveuzklivj,
$91,683,385.10; reu wfi kyv ivdrzezex kyivv hlrikvij fw kyv pvri kyv
vogveuzklivj riv vjkzdrkvu rk $172,316,614.90, drbzex kyv kfkrc
vogveuzklivj $264,000,000, reu cvrmzex re vjkzdrkvu jligclj ivmvelv wfi kyv
pvri veuzex Alev 30, 1880, fw $24,000,000. Kyv kfkrc ivtvzgkj ulizex kyv
evok wzjtrc pvri, veuzex Alev 30, 1881, vjkzdrkvu rttfiuzex kf vozjkzex
crnj, nzcc sv $288,000,000, reu kyv vjkzdrkvu fiuzerip vogveuzklivj wfi kyv
jrdv gvizfu nzcc sv $278,097,364.39, cvrmzex r jligclj fw $9,902,635.61 wfi
kyrk pvri.

Kyv crixv rdflek vogveuvu wfi riivrij fw gvejzfej ulizex kyv crjk reu kyv
givjvek wzjtrc pvri, rdflekzex kf $21,747,249.60, yrj givmvekvu kyv
rggcztrkzfe fw kyv wlcc rdflek ivhlzivu sp crn kf kyv jzebzex wleu wfi kyv
tliivek pvri; slk kyvjv riivrij yrmzex svve jlsjkrekzrccp grzu, zk zj
svczvmvu kyrk kyv jzebzex wleu tre yvivrwkvi sv drzekrzevu nzkyflk rep
tyrexv fw vozjkzex crn.

Kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri ivgfikj kyrk kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek vjkzdrkvj wfi kyv
wzjtrc pvri veuzex Alev 30, 1881, riv $40,380,428.93, kyv jrdv svzex wfi r
cvjj jld fw dfevp kyre rep reelrc vjkzdrkv iveuvivu kf Tfexivjj wifd kyrk
Uvgrikdvek ulizex r gvizfu fw rk cvrjk knvcmv pvrij.

Yv tfetlij nzky kyv Xvevirc fw kyv Ridp ze ivtfddveuzex jlty cvxzjcrkzfe rj
nzcc rlkyfizqv kyv veczjkdvek fw kyv wlcc eldsvi fw 25,000 dve wfi kyv czev
fw kyv Ridp, votcljzmv fw kyv 3,463 dve ivhlzivu wfi uvkrtyvu ulkp, reu
kyvivwfiv efk rmrzcrscv wfi jvimztv ze kyv wzvcu.

Yv rcjf ivtfddveuj kyrk Tfexivjj sv rjbvu kf gifmzuv sp crn wfi kyv
uzjgfjzkzfe fw r crixv eldsvi fw rsreufevu dzczkrip gfjkj reu ivjvimrkzfej,
nyzty, kyflxy mvip mrclrscv ze kyvdjvcmvj, yrmv svve iveuvivu ljvcvjj wfi
dzczkrip gligfjvj sp kyv rumretv fw tzmzczqrkzfe reu jvkkcvdvek.

Yv lezkvj nzky kyv Hlrikvidrjkvi-Xvevirc ze ivtfddveuzex kyrk re
rggifgizrkzfe sv druv wfi kyv tfejkiltkzfe fw r tyvrg reu gviwvtkcp
wzivgiffw slzcuzex wfi kyv jrwv jkfirxv fw r mrjk rdflek fw dfevp rttflekj,
mfltyvij, tcrzdj, reu fkyvi mrclrscv ivtfiuj efn ze kyv
Hlrikvidrjkvi-Xvevirc'j Fwwztv, reu vogfjvu kf xivrk izjb fw kfkrc
uvjkiltkzfe sp wziv.

Yv rcjf ivtfddveuj, ze tfewfidzkp nzky kyv mzvnj fw kyv
Aluxv-Rumftrkv-Xvevirc, jfdv uvtcrirkfip cvxzjcrkzfe ze ivwvivetv kf kyv
dzczkrip jkrklkv fw czdzkrkzfej rj rggczvu kf kyv tizdv fw uvjvikzfe. Ze
kyvjv jvmvirc ivtfddveurkzfej Z tfetli.

Kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri wlikyvi ivgfikj kyrk kyv nfib wfi kyv zdgifmvdvek fw
kyv Jflky Grjj fw kyv Dzjjzjjzggz Izmvi, leuvi tfekirtk nzky Di. Ardvj S.
Vruj, druv ze glijlretv fw re rtk fw Tfexivjj, yrj svve gifjvtlkvu ulizex
kyv grjk pvri nzky r xivrkvi dvrjliv fw jlttvjj ze kyv rkkrzedvek fw
ivjlckj kyre ulizex rep givmzflj pvri. Kyv tyreevc kyiflxy kyv Jflky Grjj,
nyzty rk kyv svxzeezex fw fgvirkzfej ze Alev, 1875, yru r uvgky fw fecp 7
1/2 wvvk fw nrkvi, yru fe kyv 8ky fw Alcp, 1879, r dzezdld uvgky fw 26
wvvk, yrmzex r nzuky fw efk cvjj kyre 200 wvvk reu r tvekirc uvgky fw 30
wvvk. Grpdvekj yrmv svve druv ze rttfiuretv nzky kyv jkrklkv, rj kyv nfib
gifxivjjvu, rdflekzex ze kyv rxxivxrkv kf $4,250,000; reu wlikyvi grpdvekj
nzcc svtfdv ulv, rj gifmzuvu sp kyv jkrklkv, ze kyv vmvek fw jlttvjj ze
drzekrzezex kyv tyreevc efn jvtlivu.

Kyv ivgfikj fw kyv Xvevirc fw kyv Ridp reu fw yzj jlsfiuzerkvj givjvek r
wlcc reu uvkrzcvu rttflek fw kyv dzczkrip fgvirkzfej wfi kyv jlggivjjzfe fw
yfjkzczkzvj rdfex kyv Zeuzrej fw kyv Lkv reu Rgrtyv kizsvj, reu girzjv zj
aljkcp rnriuvu kf kyv fwwztvij reu kiffgj vexrxvu wfi gifdgkevjj, jbzcc,
reu tflirxv uzjgcrpvu.

Kyv grjk pvri yrj svve fev fw rcdfjk lesifbve gvrtv reu hlzvk fe kyv
Dvoztre wifekzvi, reu kyviv zj ivrjfe kf svczvmv kyrk kyv vwwfikj fw kyzj
Xfmviedvek reu fw Dvoztf kf drzekrze fiuvi ze kyrk ivxzfe nzcc gifmv
gvidrevekcp jlttvjjwlc.

Kyzj Uvgrikdvek nrj verscvu ulizex kyv grjk pvri kf wzeu kvdgfirip, kyflxy
tifnuvu, rttfddfurkzfej reu r jrwv uvgfjzkfip wfi r gfikzfe fw zkj ivtfiuj
ze kyv tfdgcvkvu vrjk nzex fw kyv slzcuzex uvjzxevu wfi kyv Jkrkv, Nri, reu
Ermp Uvgrikdvekj. Kyv tfejkiltkzfe fw kyv efiky nzex fw kyv slzcuzex, r
grik fw kyv jkiltkliv zekveuvu wfi kyv ljv fw kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek, zj svzex
triizvu wfinriu nzky rcc gfjjzscv uzjgrkty, reu kyv nfib jyflcu ivtvzmv
wifd Tfexivjj jlty czsvirc rggifgizrkzfej rj nzcc jvtliv zkj jgvvup
tfdgcvkzfe.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp jyfnj tfekzelvu zdgifmvdvek ze kyrk
sirety fw kyv jvimztv ulizex kyv crjk wzjtrc pvri. Vokvejzmv ivgrzij yrmv
svve druv lgfe mvjjvcj, reu knf evn jyzgj yrmv svve tfdgcvkvu reu druv
ivrup wfi jvr.

Kyv kfkrc vogveuzklivj fw kyv pvri veuvu Alev 30, 1879, zetcluzex jgvtzwzt
rggifgizrkzfej efk vjkzdrkvu wfi sp kyv Uvgrikdvek, nviv $13,555,710.09.
Kyv vogvejvj tyrixvrscv kf kyv pvri, rwkvi uvultkzex kyv rdflek fw kyvjv
jgvtzwzt rggifgizrkzfej, nviv $13,343,317.79; slk kyzj zj jlsavtk kf r
ivultkzfe fw $283,725.99, kyrk rdflek yrmzex svve uirne lgfe nriirekj, slk
efk grzu flk ulizex kyv pvri. Kyv rdflek fw rggifgizrkzfej rggcztrscv kf
kyv crjk wzjtrc pvri nrj $14,538,646.17. Kyviv nrj, kyvivwfiv, r srcretv fw
$1,479,054.37 ivdrzezex levogveuvu reu kf kyv tivuzk fw kyv Uvgrikdvek fe
Alev 30, 1879. Kyv vjkzdrkvj wfi kyv wzjtrc pvri veuzex Alev 30, 1881, riv
$14,864,147.95, nyzty votvvuj kyv rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv givjvek wzjtrc
pvri $361,897.28. Kyv ivrjfe wfi kyzj zetivrjv zj vogcrzevu ze kyv
Jvtivkrip'j ivgfik. Kyv rggifgizrkzfej rmrzcrscv wfi kyv givjvek wzjtrc
pvri riv $14,502,250.67, nyzty nzcc, ze kyv fgzezfe fw kyv Jvtivkrip,
rejnvi rcc kyv fiuzerip uvdreuj fw kyv jvimztv. Kyv rdflek uirne wifd kyv
Kivrjlip wifd Alcp 1 kf Efmvdsvi 1, 1879 nrj $5,770,404.12, fw nyzty
$1,095,440.33 yrj svve ivwleuvu, cvrmzex rj kyv vogveuzkliv wfi kyrk gvizfu
$4,674,963.79. Zw kyv vogveuzklivj fw kyv ivdrzezex knf-kyziuj fw kyv pvri
uf efk votvvu kyv gifgfikzfe wfi kyvjv wfli dfekyj, kyviv nzcc ivdrze
levogveuvu rk kyv veu fw kyv pvri $477,359.30 fw kyv tliivek
rggifgizrkzfej. Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip jyfnj kyv xirkzwpzex wrtk kyrk
rdfex rcc kyv uzjslijzex fwwztvij fw kyv Grp Tfigj fw kyv Ermp kyviv zj efk
fev nyf zj r uvwrlckvi kf kyv vokvek fw r jzexcv ufccri. Z lezkv nzky yzd
ze ivtfddveuzex kyv ivdfmrc fw kyv fsjvimrkfip kf r dfiv yvrckywlc
cftrkzfe. Kyrk zejkzklkzfe ivwcvtkj tivuzk lgfe kyv erkzfe, reu yrj
fskrzevu kyv rggifsrkzfe fw jtzvekzwzt dve ze rcc grikj fw kyv nficu. Zkj
ivdfmrc wifd zkj givjvek cftrkzfe nflcu efk fecp sv tfeultzmv kf kyv yvrcky
fw zkj fwwztvij reu gifwvjjfij, slk nflcu xivrkcp zetivrjv zkj ljvwlcevjj.

Kyv rggifgizrkzfe wfi aluztzrc vogvejvj, nyzty yrj yvivkfwfiv svve druv wfi
kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Aljkztv ze xifjj, nrj jlsuzmzuvu rk kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw
Tfexivjj, reu ef rggifgizrkzfe nyrkvmvi nrj druv wfi kyv grpdvek fw kyv
wvvj fw drijyrcj reu kyvzi uvglkzvj, vzkyvi ze kyv jvimztv fw giftvjj fi
wfi kyv uzjtyrixv fw fkyvi ulkzvj; reu jzetv Alev 30 kyvjv fwwztvij yrmv
tfekzelvu kyv gviwfidretv fw kyvzi ulkzvj nzkyflk tfdgvejrkzfe wifd kyv
Xfmviedvek, krbzex lgfe kyvdjvcmvj kyv evtvjjrip zetzuvekrc flkcrpj, rj
nvcc rj iveuvizex kyvzi fne jvimztvj. Ze fecp r wvn lermfzurscv zejkretvj
yrj kyv gifgvi vovtlkzfe fw kyv giftvjj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj wrzcvu sp
ivrjfe fw kyv rsjvetv fw kyv ivhlzjzkv rggifgizrkzfe. Kyzj tflijv fw
fwwztzrc tfeultk fe kyv grik fw kyvjv fwwztvij, yzxycp tivuzkrscv kf kyvzi
wzuvczkp, nrj rumzjvu sp kyv Rkkfievp-Xvevirc, nyf zewfidvu kyvd, yfnvmvi,
kyrk kyvp nflcu evtvjjrizcp yrmv kf ivcp wfi kyvzi tfdgvejrkzfe lgfe kyv
gifjgvtk fw wlkliv cvxzjcrkzfe sp Tfexivjj. Z kyvivwfiv vjgvtzrccp
ivtfddveu kyrk zddvuzrkv rggifgizrkzfe sv druv sp Tfexivjj wfi kyzj
gligfjv.

Kyv rtk drbzex kyv gizetzgrc rggifgizrkzfe wfi kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Aljkztv rk
givmzflj jvjjzfej yrj lezwfidcp tfekrzevu kyv wfccfnzex tcrljv: Reu wfi
uvwirpzex kyv vogvejvj nyzty dp sv zetliivu ze kyv vewfitvdvek fw kyv rtk
rggifmvu Wvsilrip 28, 1871, vekzkcvu "Re rtk kf rdveu re rtk rggifmvu Drp
31, 1870, vekzkcvu 'Re rtk kf vewfitv kyv izxykj fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj kf mfkv ze kyv jvmvirc Jkrkvj fw kyzj Lezfe, reu wfi fkyvi
gligfjvj,'" fi rep rtkj rdveurkfip kyvivfw fi jlggcvdvekrip kyvivkf. Ef
rggifgizrkzfe nrj druv wfi kyzj gligfjv wfi kyv tliivek pvri. Rj ef xvevirc
vcvtkzfe wfi Dvdsvij fw Tfexivjj fttliivu, kyv fdzjjzfe nrj r drkkvi fw
czkkcv girtkztrc zdgfikretv. Jlty vcvtkzfe nzcc, yfnvmvi, krbv gcrtv ulizex
kyv vejlzex pvri, reu kyv rggifgizrkzfe druv wfi kyv grp fw drijyrcj reu
uvglkzvj jyflcu sv jlwwztzvek kf vdsirtv tfdgvejrkzfe wfi kyv jvimztvj kyvp
drp sv ivhlzivu kf gviwfid rk jlty vcvtkzfej.

Kyv sljzevjj fw kyv Jlgivdv Tflik zj rk givjvek crixvcp ze riivrij. Zk tre
efk sv vogvtkvu kyrk dfiv trljvj tre sv uvtzuvu kyre riv efn uzjgfjvu fw ze
zkj reelrc jvjjzfe, fi kyrk sp rep rjjzulzkp kyv uzjkzexlzjyvu drxzjkirkvj
nyf tfdgfjv kyv tflik tre rttfdgczjy dfiv kyre zj efn ufev. Ze kyv tflikj
fw drep fw kyv tzitlzkj rcjf kyv sljzevjj yrj zetivrjvu kf jlty re vokvek
kyrk kyv uvcrp fw aljkztv nzcc trcc kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf re
rggifgizrkv ivdvup. Zk zj svczvmvu kyrk rcc zj ufev ze vrty tzitlzk nyzty
tre wrzicp sv vogvtkvu wifd zkj aluztzrc wfitv. Kyv vmzcj rizjzex wifd
uvcrp riv cvjj yvrmzcp wvck sp kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kyre sp gizmrkv jlzkfij,
rj zkj trljvj riv rumretvu sp kyv tflikj nyve zk zj jvve kyrk kyvp zemfcmv
kyv uzjtljjzfe fw hlvjkzfej fw r glsczt tyrirtkvi.

Kyv ivdvup jlxxvjkvu sp kyv Rkkfievp-Xvevirc zj kyv rggfzekdvek fw
ruuzkzferc tzitlzk aluxvj reu kyv tivrkzfe fw re zekvidvuzrkv tflik fw
viifij reu rggvrcj, nyzty jyrcc ivczvmv kyv Jlgivdv Tflik fw r grik fw zkj
alizjuztkzfe, nyzcv r crixvi wfitv zj rcjf fskrzevu wfi kyv gviwfidretv fw
tzitlzk ulkzvj.

Z tfddveu kyzj jlxxvjkzfe kf kyv tfejzuvirkzfe fw Tfexivjj. Zk nflcu jvvd
kf rwwfiu r tfdgcvkv ivdvup, reu nflcu zemfcmv, zw kve ruuzkzferc tzitlzk
aluxvj riv rggfzekvu, re vogveuzkliv, rk kyv givjvek irkv fw jrcrizvj, fw
efk dfiv kyre $60,000 r pvri, nyzty nflcu tvikrzecp sv jdrcc ze tfdgrizjfe
nzky kyv fsavtkj kf sv rkkrzevu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc svrij kvjkzdfep kf kyv xvevirc ivmzmrc
fw sljzevjj kyiflxyflk kyv tflekip. Kyv ivtvzgkj fw kyv Gfjk-Fwwztv
Uvgrikdvek wfi kyv wzjtrc pvri veuvu Alev 30, 1879, nviv $30,041,982.86,
svzex $764,465.91 dfiv kyre kyv ivmvelvj fw kyv givtvuzex pvri. Kyv rdflek
ivrczqvu wifd kyv jrcv fw gfjkrxv jkrdgj, jkrdgvu vemvcfgvj, reu gfjkrc
triuj nrj $764,465.91 dfiv kyre ze kyv givtvuzex pvri, reu $2,387,559.23
dfiv kyre ze 1877. Kyv vogveuzklivj fw kyv Uvgrikdvek nviv $33,449,899.45,
fw nyzty kyv jld fw $376,461.63 nrj grzu fe czrszczkzvj zetliivu ze
givtvuzex pvrij.

Kyv vogveuzklivj ulizex kyv pvri nviv $801,209.77 cvjj kyre ze kyv
givtvuzex pvri. Kyzj ivultkzfe zj kf sv rkkizslkvu drzecp kf kyv fgvirkzfe
fw kyv crn grjjvu Alev 17, 1878, tyrexzex kyv tfdgvejrkzfe fw gfjkdrjkvij
wifd r tfddzjjzfe fe kyv mrclv fw jkrdgj jfcu kf r tfddzjjzfe fe jkrdgj
tretvcvu.

Kyv rdflek uirne wifd kyv Kivrjlip fe rggifgizrkzfej, ze ruuzkzfe kf kyv
ivmvelvj fw kyv Uvgrikdvek, nrj $3,031,454.96, svzex $2,276,197.86 cvjj
kyre ze kyv givtvuzex pvri.

Kyv vogveuzklivj wfi kyv wzjtrc pvri veuzex Alev 30, 1881, riv vjkzdrkvu rk
$39,920,900 reu kyv ivtvzgkj wifd rcc jflitvj rk $32,210,000, cvrmzex r
uvwztzvetp kf sv rggifgizrkvu wfi flk fw kyv Kivrjlip fw $7,710,900.

Kyv ivcrkzfej fw kyv Uvgrikdvek nzky irzcifru tfdgrezvj yrmv svve
yridfezqvu, efknzkyjkreuzex kyv xvevirc ivultkzfe sp Tfexivjj fw kyvzi
tfdgvejrkzfe sp kyv rggifgizrkzfe wfi jgvtzrc wrtzczkzvj, reu kyv irzcnrp
gfjk-fwwztv czevj yrmv svve xivrkcp vokveuvu, vjgvtzrccp ze kyv Jflkyvie
Jkrkvj. Kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv Irzcnrp Drzc Jvimztv reu fw kyv glsczt nflcu
sv xivrkcp gifdfkvu reu kyv vogveuzklivj tflcu sv dfiv ivruzcp tfekifccvu
sp kyv tcrjjzwztrkzfe fw kyv vdgcfpvvj fw kyv Irzcnrp Drzc Jvimztv rj
ivtfddveuvu sp kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc, kyv rggifgizrkzfe wfi jrcrizvj, nzky
ivjgvtk kf nyzty kyv drozdld czdzk zj rcivrup wzovu sp crn, kf sv druv ze
xifjj.

Kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc ivtfddveuj re rdveudvek fw kyv crn ivxlcrkzex kyv
zetivrjv fw tfdgvejrkzfe wfi zetivrjvu jvimztv reu zetivrjvu jgvvu fe jkri
iflkvj, jf rj kf verscv yzd kf rumvikzjv wfi gifgfjrcj wfi jlty zetivrjvu
jvimztv reu jgvvu. Yv rcjf jlxxvjkj kyv rumrekrxvj kf rttilv kf kyv
tfddvitv fw kyv tflekip wifd kyv vertkdvek fw r xvevirc crn rlkyfizqzex
tfekirtkj nzky Rdviztre-slzck jkvrdvij, triipzex kyv Rdviztre wcrx, wfi
kirejgfikzex kyv drzc svknvve gfikj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu gfikj fw kyv
Nvjk Zeuzvj reu Jflky Rdviztr, rk r wzovu drozdld giztv gvi dzcv, kyv
rdflek kf sv vogveuvu svzex ivxlcrkvu sp reelrc rggifgizrkzfej, ze czbv
dreevi nzky kyv rdflek grzu wfi kyv ufdvjkzt jkri jvimztv.

Kyv riirexvdvek druv sp kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc reu kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv
Kivrjlip wfi kyv tfccvtkzfe fw ulkp lgfe sffbj ivtvzmvu ze kyv drzc wifd
wfivzxe tflekizvj yrj gifmvu jf jrkzjwrtkfip ze zkj girtkztrc fgvirkzfe
kyrk kyv ivtfddveurkzfe zj efn druv kyrk Tfexivjj jyrcc vokveu kyv
gifmzjzfej fw kyv rtk fw Drity 3, 1879, leuvi nyzty kyzj riirexvdvek nrj
druv, jf rj kf rggcp kf rcc fkyvi ulkzrscv rikztcvj ivtvzmvu ze kyv drzcj
wifd wfivzxe tflekizvj.

Kyv ivgfikj fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi reu fw kyv Tfddzjjzfevi fw
Zeuzre Rwwrzij, jvkkzex wfiky kyv givjvek jkrkv fw fli ivcrkzfej nzky kyv
Zeuzre kizsvj fe fli kviizkfip, kyv dvrjlivj krbve kf rumretv kyvzi
tzmzczqrkzfe reu gifjgvizkp, reu kyv gifxivjj rcivrup rtyzvmvu sp kyvd,
nzcc sv wfleu fw dfiv kyre fiuzerip zekvivjk. Kyv xvevirc tfeultk fw fli
Zeuzre gfglcrkzfe yrj svve jf jrkzjwrtkfip kyrk kyv fttliivetv fw knf
uzjklisretvj, nyzty ivjlckvu ze scffujyvu reu uvjkiltkzfe fw gifgvikp, zj
rcc kyv dfiv kf sv crdvekvu.

Kyv yzjkfip fw kyv flksivrb fe kyv Nyzkv Izmvi Lkv Ivjvimrkzfe, ze nvjkvie
Tfcfiruf, yrj svtfdv jf wrdzczri sp vcrsfirkv ivgfikj ze kyv glsczt givjj
kyrk zkj ivdribrscv zetzuvekj evvu efk sv jkrkvu yviv ze uvkrzc. Zk zj
vogvtkvu kyrk kyv jvkkcvdvek fw kyzj uzwwztlckp nzcc cvru kf jlty
riirexvdvekj rj nzcc givmvek wlikyvi yfjkzcv tfekrtk svknvve kyv Zeuzrej
reu kyv sfiuvi jvkkcvdvekj ze nvjkvie Tfcfiruf.

Kyv fkyvi uzjklisretv fttliivu rk kyv Dvjtrcvif Rxvetp, ze Evn Dvoztf,
nyviv Mztkfizr, rk kyv yvru fw r jdrcc sreu fw drirluvij, rwkvi tfddzkkzex
drep rkiftzkzvj, svzex mzxfifljcp tyrjvu sp r dzczkrip wfitv, druv yzj nrp
rtifjj kyv Dvoztre sfiuvi reu zj efn fe wfivzxe jfzc.

Nyzcv kyvjv fttliivetvj, ze nyzty r tfdgrirkzmvcp jdrcc eldsvi fw Zeuzrej
nviv vexrxvu, riv dfjk uvgcfirscv, r mrjk drafizkp fw fli Zeuzre gfglcrkzfe
yrmv wlccp aljkzwzvu kyv vogvtkrkzfej fw kyfjv nyf svczvmv kyrk sp yldrev
reu gvrtvwlc zewclvetvj kyv Zeuzre tre sv cvu kf rsreufe kyv yrszkj fw
jrmrxv czwv reu kf uvmvcfg r trgrtzkp wfi ljvwlc reu tzmzczqvu fttlgrkzfej.
Nyrk kyvp yrmv rcivrup rttfdgczjyvu ze kyv glijlzk fw rxiztlcklirc reu
dvtyreztrc nfib, kyv ivdribrscv jlttvjj nyzty yrj rkkveuvu kyv vogvizdvek
fw vdgcfpzex rj wivzxykvij r tcrjj fw Zeuzrej yzkyvikf tflekvu rdfex kyv
nzcuvjk reu dfjk zekirtkrscv, reu kyv xvevirc reu lixvek uvjziv vogivjjvu
sp kyvd wfi kyv vultrkzfe fw kyvzi tyzcuive drp sv krbve rj jlwwztzvek
giffw kyrk kyvp nzcc sv wfleu trgrscv fw rttfdgczjyzex dlty dfiv zw kyvp
tfekzelv kf sv nzjvcp reu wrzicp xlzuvu. Kyv "Zeuzre gfcztp" jbvktyvu ze
kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi, kyv fsavtk fw nyzty zj kf drbv
czsvirc gifmzjzfe wfi kyv vultrkzfe fw Zeuzre pflky, kf jvkkcv kyv Zeuzrej
lgfe wrid cfkj ze jvmvirckp, kf xzmv kyvd kzkcv ze wvv kf kyvzi wridj,
zerczverscv wfi r tvikrze eldsvi fw pvrij, reu nyve kyvzi nrekj riv kylj
gifmzuvu wfi kf uzjgfjv sp jrcv fw kyv creuj fe kyvzi ivjvimrkzfej efk
fttlgzvu reu ljvu sp kyvd, r wleu kf sv wfidvu flk fw kyv giftvvuj wfi kyv
svevwzk fw kyv Zeuzrej, nyzty nzcc xirulrccp ivczvmv kyv Xfmviedvek fw kyv
vogvejvj efn gifmzuvu wfi sp reelrc rggifgizrkzfej, dljk tfddveu zkjvcw rj
aljk reu svevwztzrc kf kyv Zeuzrej, reu rj rcjf trctlcrkvu kf ivdfmv kyfjv
fsjkiltkzfej nyzty kyv vozjkvetv fw crixv ivjvimrkzfej givjvekj kf kyv
jvkkcvdvek reu uvmvcfgdvek fw kyv tflekip. Z kyvivwfiv vrievjkcp ivtfddveu
kyv vertkdvek fw r crn versczex kyv Xfmviedvek kf xzmv Zeuzrej r kzkcv ze
wvv, zerczverscv wfi knvekp-wzmv pvrij, kf kyv wrid creuj rjjzxevu kf kyvd
sp rccfkdvek. Z rcjf ivgvrk kyv ivtfddveurkzfe druv ze dp wzijk reelrc
dvjjrxv, kyrk r crn sv grjjvu rudzkkzex Zeuzrej nyf tre xzmv jrkzjwrtkfip
giffw fw yrmzex sp kyvzi fne crsfi jlggfikvu kyvzi wrdzczvj wfi r eldsvi fw
pvrij, reu nyf riv nzcczex kf uvkrty kyvdjvcmvj wifd kyvzi kizsrc
ivcrkzfej, kf kyv svevwzk fw kyv yfdvjkvru rtk, reu kf xirek kyvd grkvekj
tfekrzezex kyv jrdv gifmzjzfe fw zerczverszczkp wfi r tvikrze gvizfu.

Kyv vogvizdvek fw jveuzex r eldsvi fw Zeuzre tyzcuive fw sfky jvovj kf kyv
Yrdgkfe Efidrc reu Rxiztlcklirc Zejkzklkv, ze Mzixzezr, kf ivtvzmv re
vcvdvekrip Vexczjy vultrkzfe reu girtkztrc zejkiltkzfe ze wridzex reu fkyvi
ljvwlc zeuljkizvj, yrj cvu kf ivjlckj jf gifdzjzex kyrk zk nrj kyflxyk
vogvuzvek kf klie fmvi kyv trmrcip sriirtbj rk Triczjcv, ze Gveejpcmrezr,
kf kyv Zekvizfi Uvgrikdvek wfi kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw re Zeuzre jtyffc fe r
crixvi jtrcv. Kyzj jtyffc yrj efn 158 glgzcj, jvcvtkvu wifd mrizflj kizsvj,
reu zj ze wlcc fgvirkzfe. Riirexvdvekj riv rcjf druv wfi kyv vultrkzfe fw r
eldsvi fw Zeuzre sfpj reu xzicj svcfexzex kf kizsvj fe kyv Grtzwzt Jcfgv ze
r jzdzcri dreevi, rk Wfivjk Xifmv, ze Fivxfe. Kyvjv zejkzklkzfej nzcc
tfddveu kyvdjvcmvj kf kyv czsvirczkp fw Tfexivjj reu kf kyv gyzcrekyifgzt
dlezwztvetv fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv.

Crjk jgizex zewfidrkzfe nrj ivtvzmvu fw kyv fixrezqrkzfe fw re vokvejzmv
dfmvdvek ze kyv Nvjkvie Jkrkvj, kyv fsavtk fw nyzty nrj kyv fttlgrkzfe sp
lerlkyfizqvu gvijfej fw tvikrze creuj ze kyv Zeuzre Kviizkfip tvuvu sp kyv
Tyvifbvvj kf kyv Xfmviedvek wfi kyv gligfjv fw jvkkcvdvek sp fkyvi Zeuzre
kizsvj.

Fe kyv 26ky fw Rgizc Z zjjlvu r giftcrdrkzfe nriezex rcc gvijfej rxrzejk
grikztzgrkzfe ze jlty re rkkvdgk, reu sp kyv tffgvirkzfe fw r dzczkrip
wfitv kyv zemrjzfe nrj gifdgkcp tyvtbvu. Zk zj dp gligfjv kf gifkvtk kyv
izxykj fw kyv Zeuzre zeyrszkrekj fw kyrk Kviizkfip kf kyv wlcc vokvek fw
kyv vovtlkzmv gfnvi; slk zk nflcu sv lenzjv kf zxefiv kyv wrtk kyrk r
kviizkfip jf crixv reu jf wvikzcv, nzky r gfglcrkzfe jf jgrijv reu nzky jf
xivrk r nvrcky fw leljvu ivjflitvj, nzcc sv wfleu dfiv vogfjvu kf kyv
ivgvkzkzfe fw jlty rkkvdgkj rj yrggvevu kyzj pvri nyve kyv jliifleuzex
Jkrkvj riv dfiv uvejvcp jvkkcvu reu kyv nvjknriu dfmvdvek fw fli gfglcrkzfe
cffbj jkzcc dfiv vrxvicp wfi wivjy creuj kf fttlgp. Leuvi jlty
tzitldjkretvj kyv uzwwztlckp fw drzekrzezex kyv Zeuzre Kviizkfip ze zkj
givjvek jkrkv nzcc xivrkcp zetivrjv, reu kyv Zeuzre kizsvj zeyrszkzex zk
nflcu uf nvcc kf givgriv wfi jlty r tfekzexvetp. Z kyvivwfiv wlccp rggifmv
fw kyv rumztv xzmve kf kyvd sp kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi fe r ivtvek
fttrjzfe, kf uzmzuv rdfex kyvdjvcmvj ze jvmvirckp rj crixv r hlrekzkp fw
kyvzi creuj rj kyvp tre tlckzmrkv; kf rthlziv zeuzmzulrc kzkcv ze wvv
zejkvru fw kyvzi givjvek kizsrc fnevijyzg ze tfddfe, reu kf tfejzuvi ze
nyrk dreevi kyv srcretv fw kyvzi creuj drp sv uzjgfjvu fw sp kyv Xfmviedvek
wfi kyvzi svevwzk. Sp rufgkzex jlty r gfcztp kyvp nflcu dfiv tvikrzecp
jvtliv wfi kyvdjvcmvj kyv mrclv fw kyvzi gfjjvjjzfej, reu rk kyv jrdv kzdv
gifdfkv kyvzi gifxivjj ze tzmzczqrkzfe reu gifjgvizkp, kyre sp veuvrmfizex
kf gvigvklrkv kyv givjvek jkrkv fw kyzexj ze kyv Kviizkfip.

Kyv hlvjkzfe nyvkyvi r tyrexv ze kyv tfekifc fw kyv Zeuzre jvimztv jyflcu
sv druv nrj ze kyv Wfikp-wzwky Tfexivjj ivwviivu kf r afzek tfddzkkvv fw
sfky Yfljvj wfi zehlzip reu ivgfik. Ze dp crjk reelrc dvjjrxv Z vogivjjvu
kyv yfgv kyrk kyv uvtzjzfe fw kyrk hlvjkzfe, kyve ze gifjgvtk, nflcu
"riivjk wlikyvi rxzkrkzfe fw kyzj jlsavtk, jlty rxzkrkzfe svzex rgk kf
gifultv r uzjkliszex vwwvtk lgfe kyv jvimztv rj nvcc rj fe kyv Zeuzrej
kyvdjvcmvj." Jzetv kyve, kyv tfddzkkvv yrmzex ivgfikvu, kyv hlvjkzfe yrj
svve uvtzuvu ze kyv evxrkzmv sp r mfkv ze kyv Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj.

Wfi kyv ivrjfej yviv jkrkvu, reu ze mzvn fw kyv wrtk kyrk wlikyvi
letvikrzekp fe kyzj gfzek nzcc sv trctlcrkvu kf fsjkiltk fkyvi dlty-evvuvu
cvxzjcrkzfe, kf nvrbve kyv uzjtzgczev fw kyv jvimztv, reu kf lejvkkcv
jrclkrip dvrjlivj efn ze gifxivjj wfi kyv xfmviedvek reu zdgifmvdvek fw kyv
Zeuzrej, Z ivjgvtkwlccp ivtfddveu kyrk kyv uvtzjzfe riizmvu rk sp Tfexivjj
rk zkj crjk jvjjzfe sv gvidzkkvu kf jkreu.

Kyv vwwfikj druv sp kyv Uvgrikdvek fw kyv Zekvizfi kf riivjk kyv
uvgivurkzfej fe kyv kzdsvi creuj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv svve tfekzelvu,
reu yrmv dvk nzky tfejzuvirscv jlttvjj. R crixv eldsvi fw trjvj fw kivjgrjj
yrmv svve gifjvtlkvu ze kyv tflikj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj; fkyvij yrmv svve
jvkkcvu, kyv kivjgrjjvij fwwvizex kf drbv grpdvek kf kyv Xfmviedvek wfi kyv
mrclv fw kyv kzdsvi krbve sp kyvd. Kyv giftvvuj fw kyvjv gifjvtlkzfej reu
jvkkcvdvekj klievu zekf kyv Kivrjlip wri votvvu ze rdflek kyv jldj
rggifgizrkvu sp Tfexivjj wfi kyzj gligfjv. R dfiv zdgfikrek ivjlck,
yfnvmvi, tfejzjkj ze kyv wrtk kyrk kyv uvjkiltkzfe fw fli glsczt wfivjkj sp
uvgivurkzfe, rckyflxy jlty trjvj jkzcc fttli, yrj svve xivrkcp ivultvu ze
vokvek, reu zk zj gifsrscv kyrk zw kyv givjvek gfcztp zj mzxfifljcp glijlvu
reu jlwwztzvek gifmzjzfe kf kyrk veu zj druv sp Tfexivjj jlty kivjgrjjvj,
rk cvrjk kyfjv fe r crixv jtrcv, tre sv vekzivcp jlggivjjvu, votvgk ze kyv
Kviizkfizvj, nyviv kzdsvi wfi kyv urzcp ivhlzivdvekj fw kyv gfglcrkzfe tre
efk, leuvi kyv givjvek jkrkv fw kyv crn, sv fkyvinzjv fskrzevu. Z kyvivwfiv
vrievjkcp zemzkv kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv ivtfddveurkzfe druv sp
kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Zekvizfi, kyrk r crn sv vertkvu versczex kyv
Xfmviedvek kf jvcc kzdsvi wifd kyv glsczt creuj nzkyflk tfemvpzex kyv wvv,
nyviv jlty creuj riv gizetzgrccp mrclrscv wfi kyv kzdsvi kyvivfe, jlty
jrcvj kf sv jf ivxlcrkvu rj kf tfewfid kf ufdvjkzt nrekj reu sljzevjj
ivhlzivdvekj, nyzcv rk kyv jrdv kzdv xlriuzex rxrzejk r jnvvgzex
uvjkiltkzfe fw kyv wfivjkj. Kyv vertkdvek fw jlty r crn rggvrij kf svtfdv r
dfiv givjjzex evtvjjzkp vmvip urp.

Dp ivtfddveurkzfej ze wfidvi dvjjrxvj riv ivevnvu ze wrmfi fw vecrixzex kyv
wrtzczkzvj fw kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Rxiztlckliv. Rxiztlckliv zj kyv cvruzex
zekvivjk reu kyv gvidrevek zeuljkip fw fli gvfgcv. Zk zj kf kyv rsleuretv
fw rxiztlcklirc gifultkzfe, rj tfdgrivu nzky fli yfdv tfejldgkzfe, reu kyv
crixvcp zetivrjvu reu yzxycp gifwzkrscv dribvk rsifru nyzty nv yrmv veafpvu
ze ivtvek pvrij, kyrk nv riv drzecp zeuvskvu wfi fli givjvek gifjgvizkp rj
r gvfgcv. Nv dljk cffb wfi zkj tfekzelvu drzekveretv kf kyv jrdv
jlsjkrekzrc ivjflitv. Kyviv zj ef sirety fw zeuljkip ze nyzty crsfi,
uzivtkvu sp jtzvekzwzt befncvuxv, pzvcuj jlty zetivrjvu gifultkzfe ze
tfdgrizjfe nzky lejbzccvu crsfi, reu ef sirety fw kyv glsczt jvimztv kf
nyzty kyv vetflirxvdvek fw czsvirc rggifgizrkzfej tre sv dfiv rggifgizrkvcp
vokveuvu. Kyv fdzjjzfe kf iveuvi jlty rzu zj efk r nzjv vtfefdp, slk, fe
kyv tfekirip, leuflskvucp ivjlckj ze cfjjvj fw zddvejv jldj reelrccp kyrk
dzxyk sv jrmvu kyiflxy nvcc-uzivtkvu vwwfikj sp kyv Xfmviedvek kf gifdfkv
kyzj mzkrc zekvivjk.

Kyv ivjlckj rcivrup rttfdgczjyvu nzky kyv mvip czdzkvu dvrej yvivkfwfiv
gcrtvu rk kyv tfddreu fw kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Rxiztlckliv zj re vrievjk fw
nyrk drp sv vogvtkvu nzky zetivrjvu rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv jvmvirc gligfjvj
zeuztrkvu ze kyv ivgfik fw kyv Tfddzjjzfevi, nzky r mzvn kf gcrtzex kyv
Uvgrikdvek lgfe r wffkzex nyzty nzcc verscv zk kf gifjvtlkv dfiv
vwwvtkzmvcp kyv fsavtkj wfi nyzty zk zj vjkrsczjyvu.

Rggifgizrkzfej riv evvuvu wfi r dfiv tfdgcvkv crsfirkfip, wfi kyv
vjkrsczjydvek fw r mvkvizerip uzmzjzfe reu r uzmzjzfe fw wfivjkip, reu wfi
re zetivrjv fw wfitv.

Kyv ivhlzivdvekj wfi kyvjv reu fkyvi gligfjvj, zeuztrkvu ze kyv ivgfik fw
kyv Tfddzjjzfevi leuvi kyv yvru fw kyv zddvuzrkv evtvjjzkzvj fw kyv
Uvgrikdvek, nzcc efk zemfcmv rep vogveuzkliv fw dfevp kyrk kyv tflekip tre
efk nzky gifgizvkp efn leuvikrbv ze kyv zekvivjkj fw rxiztlckliv.

Zk zj xirkzwpzex kf cvrie wifd kyv Slivrl fw Vultrkzfe kyv vokvek kf nyzty
vultrkzferc gizmzcvxvj kyiflxyflk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv svve rumretvu
ulizex kyv pvri. Ef dfiv wleurdvekrc ivjgfejzszczkp ivjkj lgfe Tfexivjj
kyre kyrk fw uvmzjzex rggifgizrkv dvrjlivj fw wzeretzrc rzu kf vultrkzfe,
jlggcvdvekrc kf cftrc rtkzfe ze kyv Jkrkvj reu Kviizkfizvj reu ze kyv
Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr. Kyv nzjv wfivkyflxyk fw kyv wfleuvij fw fli
Xfmviedvek yrj efk fecp wliezjyvu kyv srjzj wfi kyv jlggfik fw kyv
tfddfe-jtyffc jpjkvdj fw kyv evnvi Jkrkvj, slk crzu kyv wfleurkzfej wfi kyv
drzekveretv fw kyvzi lezmvijzkzvj reu tfccvxvj fw rxiztlckliv reu kyv
dvtyrezt rikj. Dvrjlivj ze rttfiuretv nzky kyzj kiruzkzferc gfcztp, wfi kyv
wlikyvi svevwzk fw rcc kyvjv zekvivjkj reu kyv vokvejzfe fw kyv jrdv
rumrekrxvj kf vmvip gfikzfe fw kyv tflekip, zk zj yfgvu nzcc ivtvzmv pfli
wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe.

Kf givjvimv reu gvigvklrkv kyv erkzferc czkvirkliv jyflcu sv rdfex kyv
wfivdfjk trivj fw kyv Erkzferc Cvxzjcrkliv. Kyv czsirip xrkyvivu rk kyv
Trgzkfc jkzcc ivdrzej legifmzuvu nzky rep jlzkrscv rttfddfurkzfej wfi zkj
irgzucp zetivrjzex jkfivj. Kyv drxezkluv reu zdgfikretv fw kyv tfccvtkzfe,
zetivrjvu rj zk zj sp kyv uvgfjzkj druv leuvi kyv crn fw tfgpizxyk, sp
ufdvjkzt reu wfivzxe votyrexvj, reu sp kyv jtzvekzwzt czsirip fw kyv
Jdzkyjfezre Zejkzklkzfe, trcc wfi slzcuzex rttfddfurkzfej nyzty jyrcc sv rk
fetv ruvhlrkv reu wzivgiffw. Kyv cftrkzfe fw jlty r glsczt slzcuzex, nyzty
jyflcu gifmzuv wfi kyv givjjzex evtvjjzkzvj fw kyv givjvek reu wfi kyv mrjk
zetivrjv fw kyv erkzfe'j sffbj ze kyv wlkliv, zj r drkkvi nyzty ruuivjjvj
zkjvcw kf kyv uzjtivkzfe fw Tfexivjj. Zk zj vrievjkcp ivtfddveuvu rj r
dvrjliv nyzty jyflcu lezkv rcc jlwwirxvj reu nyzty jyflcu ef cfexvi sv
uvcrpvu.

Kyv afzek tfddzjjzfe tivrkvu sp kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj fw Rlxljk 2, 1876, wfi
kyv gligfjv fw jlgvimzjzex reu uzivtkzex kyv tfdgcvkzfe fw kyv Nrjyzexkfe
Erkzferc Dfeldvek, fw nyzty tfddzjjzfe kyv Givjzuvek zj r dvdsvi, yrj xzmve
trivwlc rkkvekzfe kf kyzj jlsavtk, reu rcivrup kyv jkivexkyvezex fw kyv
wfleurkzfe yrj jf wri gifxivjjvu rj kf zejliv kyv vekziv jlttvjj fw kyzj
grik fw kyv nfib. R drjjzmv crpvi fw drjfeip yrj svve zekifultvu svcfn kyv
fizxzerc wfleurkzfe, nzuvezex kyv srjv, zetivrjzex kyv jkrszczkp fw kyv
jkiltkliv, reu iveuvizex zk gfjjzscv kf triip kyv jyrwk kf tfdgcvkzfe. Zk
zj vrievjkcp ivtfddveuvu kyrk jlty wlikyvi rggifgizrkzfej sv druv wfi kyv
tfekzelvu gifjvtlkzfe fw kyv nfib rj drp sv evtvjjrip wfi kyv tfdgcvkzfe fw
kyzj erkzferc dfeldvek rk re vricp urp.

Ze wfidvi dvjjrxvj, zdgivjjvu nzky kyv zdgfikretv fw kyv jlsavtk, Z yrmv
krbve fttrjzfe kf tfddveu kf Tfexivjj kyv rufgkzfe fw r xveviflj gfcztp
kfnriu kyv Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr. Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Tfddzjjzfevij fw kyv
Uzjkiztk, yvivnzky kirejdzkkvu, tfekrzej jlxxvjkzfej reu ivtfddveurkzfej,
kf rcc fw nyzty Z vrievjkcp zemzkv pfli trivwlc rkkvekzfe. Z rjb pfli vricp
reu wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyv mzvnj nyzty kyvp vogivjj rj kf kyv
lixvek evvu fw cvxzjcrkzfe wfi kyv ivtcrdrkzfe fw kyv drijyvj fw kyv
Gfkfdrt reu zkj Vrjkvie Sirety nzkyze kyv czdzkj fw kyv tzkp, reu wfi kyv
ivgrzi fw kyv jkivvkj fw kyv trgzkrc, yvivkfwfiv crzu nzky nffuve scftbj
reu efn sp uvtrp iveuvivu rcdfjk zdgrjjrscv reu r jflitv fw zddzevek urexvi
kf kyv yvrcky fw zkj tzkzqvej. Kyv dvrej rk kyv uzjgfjrc fw kyv
Tfddzjjzfevij riv nyfccp zeruvhlrkv wfi kyv rttfdgczjydvek fw kyvjv
zdgfikrek nfibj, reu jyflcu sv jlggcvdvekvu sp kzdvcp rggifgizrkzfej wifd
kyv Wvuvirc Kivrjlip.

Kyv wzcczex fw kyv wcrkj ze wifek fw kyv tzkp nzcc ruu kf kyv ruartvek
creuj reu gribj efn fnevu sp kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj r crixv reu mrclrscv ufdrze,
jlwwztzvek, zk zj kyflxyk, kf ivzdslijv zkj vekziv tfjk, reu nzcc rcjf, rj
re zetzuvekrc ivjlck, jvtliv kyv gvidrevek zdgifmvdvek fw kyv izmvi wfi kyv
gligfjvj fw ermzxrkzfe.

Kyv Tfejkzklkzfe yrmzex zemvjkvu Tfexivjj nzky jlgivdv reu votcljzmv
alizjuztkzfe fmvi kyv Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr, zkj tzkzqvej dljk fw evtvjjzkp
cffb kf Tfexivjj rcfev wfi rcc evvuwlc cvxzjcrkzfe rwwvtkzex kyvzi
zekvivjkj; reu rj kyv kviizkfip fw kyzj Uzjkiztk zj kyv tfddfe gifgvikp fw
kyv gvfgcv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nyf vhlrccp nzky zkj ivjzuvek tzkzqvej riv
zekvivjkvu ze kyv gifjgvizkp fw kyvzi trgzkrc, Z tre efk uflsk kyrk pfl
nzcc sv rdgcp jljkrzevu sp kyv xvevirc mfztv fw kyv tflekip ze rep dvrjlivj
pfl drp rufgk wfi kyzj gligfjv.

Z rcjf zemzkv kyv wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv nrekj fw kyv
glsczt jtyffcj fw kyzj Uzjkiztk, rj voyzszkvu ze kyv ivgfik fw kyv
Tfddzjjzfevij. Nyzcv kyv eldsvi fw glgzcj zj irgzucp zetivrjzex, ef
ruvhlrkv gifmzjzfe vozjkj wfi r tfiivjgfeuzex zetivrjv fw jtyffc
rttfddfurkzfe, reu kyv Tfddzjjzfevij riv nzkyflk kyv dvrej kf dvvk kyzj
lixvek evvu. R eldsvi fw kyv slzcuzexj efn ljvu wfi jtyffc gligfjvj riv
ivekvu, reu riv ze zdgfikrek grikztlcrij lejlzkvu wfi kyv gligfjv. Kyv
trljv fw gfglcri vultrkzfe ze kyv Uzjkiztk fw Tfcldszr zj jlivcp vekzkcvu
kf kyv jrdv tfejzuvirkzfe rk kyv yreuj fw kyv Erkzferc Xfmviedvek rj ze kyv
jvmvirc Jkrkvj reu Kviizkfizvj, kf nyzty dlezwztvek xirekj fw kyv glsczt
creuj yrmv svve druv wfi kyv veufndvek fw jtyffcj reu lezmvijzkzvj.