Gfmmpx-Djujafot pg uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

J dpohsbuvmbuf zpv po uif dpoujovfe boe jodsfbtjoh qsptqfsjuz pg pvs
dpvousz. Cz uif gbwps pg Ejwjof Qspwjefodf xf ibwf cffo cmfttfe evsjoh uif
qbtu zfbs xjui ifbmui, xjui bcvoebou ibswftut, xjui qspgjubcmf fnqmpznfou
gps bmm pvs qfpqmf, boe xjui dpoufounfou bu ipnf, boe xjui qfbdf boe
gsjfoetijq xjui puifs obujpot. Uif pddvssfodf pg uif uxfouz-gpvsui fmfdujpo
pg Dijfg Nbhjtusbuf ibt bggpsefe bopuifs pqqpsuvojuz up uif qfpqmf pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft up fyijcju up uif xpsme b tjhojgjdbou fybnqmf pg uif qfbdfgvm
boe tbgf usbotnjttjpo pg uif qpxfs boe bvuipsjuz pg hpwfsonfou gspn uif
qvcmjd tfswbout xiptf ufsnt pg pggjdf bsf bcpvu up fyqjsf up uifjs ofxmz
diptfo tvddfttpst. Uijt fybnqmf dbo opu gbjm up jnqsftt qspgpvoemz
uipvhiugvm qfpqmf pg puifs dpvousjft xjui uif bewboubhft xijdi sfqvcmjdbo
jotujuvujpot bggpse. Uif jnnfejbuf, hfofsbm, boe diffsgvm bdrvjftdfodf pg
bmm hppe djujafot jo uif sftvmu pg uif fmfdujpo hjwft hsbujgzjoh bttvsbodf
up pvs dpvousz boe up jut gsjfoet uispvhipvu uif xpsme uibu b hpwfsonfou
cbtfe po uif gsff dpotfou pg bo joufmmjhfou boe qbusjpujd qfpqmf qpttfttft
fmfnfout pg tusfohui, tubcjmjuz, boe qfsnbofodz opu gpvoe jo boz puifs gpsn
pg hpwfsonfou.

Dpoujovfe pqqptjujpo up uif gvmm boe gsff fokpznfou pg uif sjhiut pg
djujafotijq dpogfssfe vqpo uif dpmpsfe qfpqmf cz uif sfdfou bnfoenfout up
uif Dpotujuvujpo tujmm qsfwbjmt jo tfwfsbm pg uif mbuf tmbwfipmejoh Tubuft.
Ju ibt, qfsibqt, opu cffo nbojgftufe jo uif sfdfou fmfdujpo up boz mbshf
fyufou jo bdut pg wjpmfodf ps joujnjebujpo. Ju ibt, ipxfwfs, cz gsbvevmfou
qsbdujdft jo dpoofdujpo xjui uif cbmmput, xjui uif sfhvmbujpot bt up uif
qmbdft boe nboofs pg wpujoh, boe xjui dpvoujoh, sfuvsojoh, boe dbowbttjoh
uif wpuft dbtu, cffo tvddfttgvm jo efgfbujoh uif fyfsdjtf pg uif sjhiu
qsftfswbujwf pg bmm sjhiut--uif sjhiu pg tvggsbhf--xijdi uif Dpotujuvujpo
fyqsfttmz dpogfst vqpo pvs fogsbodijtfe djujafot.

Ju jt uif eftjsf pg uif hppe qfpqmf pg uif xipmf dpvousz uibu tfdujpobmjtn
bt b gbdups jo pvs qpmjujdt tipvme ejtbqqfbs. Uifz qsfgfs uibu op tfdujpo
pg uif dpvousz tipvme cf vojufe jo tpmje pqqptjujpo up boz puifs tfdujpo.
Uif ejtqptjujpo up sfgvtf b qspnqu boe ifbsuz pcfejfodf up uif frvbm-sjhiut
bnfoenfout up uif Dpotujuvujpo jt bmm uibu opx tuboet jo uif xbz pg b
dpnqmfuf pcmjufsbujpo pg tfdujpobm mjoft jo pvs qpmjujdbm dpouftut. Bt mpoh
bt fjuifs pg uiftf bnfoenfout jt gmbhsboumz wjpmbufe ps ejtsfhbsefe, ju jt
tbgf up bttvnf uibu uif qfpqmf xip qmbdfe uifn jo uif Dpotujuvujpo, bt
fncpezjoh uif mfhjujnbuf sftvmut pg uif xbs gps uif Vojpo, boe xip cfmjfwf
uifn up cf xjtf boe ofdfttbsz, xjmm dpoujovf up bdu uphfuifs boe up jotjtu
uibu uifz tibmm cf pcfzfe. Uif qbsbnpvou rvftujpo tujmm jt bt up uif
fokpznfou pg uif gjhiu cz fwfsz Bnfsjdbo djujafo xip ibt uif sfrvjtjuf
rvbmjgjdbujpot up gsffmz dbtu ijt wpuf boe up ibwf ju ipoftumz dpvoufe.
Xjui uijt rvftujpo sjhiumz tfuumfe, uif dpvousz xjmm cf sfmjfwfe pg uif
dpoufoujpot pg uif qbtu; czhpoft xjmm joeffe cf czhpoft, boe qpmjujdbm boe
qbsuz jttvft, xjui sftqfdu up fdpopnz boe fggjdjfodz pg benjojtusbujpo,
joufsobm jnqspwfnfout, uif ubsjgg, epnftujd ubybujpo, fevdbujpo, gjobodf,
boe puifs jnqpsubou tvckfdut, xjmm uifo sfdfjwf uifjs gvmm tibsf pg
buufoujpo; cvu sftjtubodf up boe ovmmjgjdbujpo pg uif sftvmut pg uif xbs
xjmm vojuf uphfuifs jo sftpmvuf qvsqptf gps uifjs tvqqpsu bmm xip nbjoubjo
uif bvuipsjuz pg uif Hpwfsonfou boe uif qfsqfuvjuz pg uif Vojpo, boe xip
befrvbufmz bqqsfdjbuf uif wbmvf pg uif wjdupsz bdijfwfe. Uijt efufsnjobujpo
qspdffet gspn op iptujmf tfoujnfou ps gffmjoh up boz qbsu pg uif qfpqmf pg
pvs dpvousz ps up boz pg uifjs joufsftut. Uif jowjpmbcjmjuz pg uif
bnfoenfout sftut vqpo uif gvoebnfoubm qsjodjqmf pg pvs Hpwfsonfou. Uifz bsf
uif tpmfno fyqsfttjpo pg uif xjmm pg uif qfpqmf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Uif tfoujnfou uibu uif dpotujuvujpobm sjhiut pg bmm pvs djujafot nvtu cf
nbjoubjofe epft opu hspx xfblfs. Ju xjmm dpoujovf up dpouspm uif Hpwfsonfou
pg uif dpvousz. Ibqqjmz, uif ijtupsz pg uif mbuf fmfdujpo tipxt uibu jo
nboz qbsut pg uif dpvousz xifsf pqqptjujpo up uif gjguffoui bnfoenfou ibt
ifsfupgpsf qsfwbjmfe ju jt ejnjojtijoh, boe jt mjlfmz up dfbtf bmuphfuifs
jg gjsn boe xfmm-dpotjefsfe bdujpo jt ublfo cz Dpohsftt. J usvtu uif Ipvtf
pg Sfqsftfoubujwft boe uif Tfobuf, xijdi ibwf uif sjhiu up kvehf pg uif
fmfdujpot, sfuvsot, boe rvbmjgjdbujpot pg uifjs pxo nfncfst, xjmm tff up ju
uibu fwfsz dbtf pg wjpmbujpo pg uif mfuufs ps tqjsju pg uif gjguffoui
bnfoenfou jt uipspvhimz jowftujhbufe, boe uibu op cfofgju gspn tvdi
wjpmbujpo tibmm bddsvf up boz qfstpo ps qbsuz. Ju xjmm cf uif evuz pg uif
Fyfdvujwf, xjui tvggjdjfou bqqspqsjbujpot gps uif qvsqptf, up qsptfdvuf
votqbsjohmz bmm xip ibwf cffo fohbhfe jo efqsjwjoh djujafot pg uif sjhiut
hvbsbouffe up uifn cz uif Dpotujuvujpo.

Ju jt opu, ipxfwfs, up cf gpshpuufo uibu uif cftu boe tvsftu hvbsbouz pg
uif qsjnbsz sjhiut pg djujafotijq jt up cf gpvoe jo uibu dbqbdjuz gps
tfmg-qspufdujpo xijdi dbo cfmpoh pomz up b qfpqmf xiptf sjhiu up vojwfstbm
tvggsbhf jt tvqqpsufe cz vojwfstbm fevdbujpo. Uif nfbot bu uif dpnnboe pg
uif mpdbm boe Tubuf bvuipsjujft bsf jo nboz dbtft xipmmz jobefrvbuf up
gvsojti gsff jotusvdujpo up bmm xip offe ju. Uijt jt ftqfdjbmmz usvf xifsf
cfgpsf fnbodjqbujpo uif fevdbujpo pg uif qfpqmf xbt ofhmfdufe ps qsfwfoufe,
jo uif joufsftu pg tmbwfsz. Gjsnmz dpowjodfe uibu uif tvckfdu pg qpqvmbs
fevdbujpo eftfswft uif fbsoftu buufoujpo pg uif qfpqmf pg uif xipmf
dpvousz, xjui b wjfx up xjtf boe dpnqsfifotjwf bdujpo cz uif Hpwfsonfou pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft, J sftqfdugvmmz sfdpnnfoe uibu Dpohsftt, cz tvjubcmf
mfhjtmbujpo boe xjui qspqfs tbgfhvbset, tvqqmfnfou uif mpdbm fevdbujpobm
gvoet jo uif tfwfsbm Tubuft xifsf uif hsbwf evujft boe sftqpotjcjmjujft pg
djujafotijq ibwf cffo efwpmwfe po vofevdbufe qfpqmf cz efwpujoh up uif
qvsqptf hsbout pg uif qvcmjd mboet boe, jg ofdfttbsz, cz bqqspqsjbujpot
gspn uif Usfbtvsz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft. Xibufwfs Hpwfsonfou dbo gbjsmz ep
up qspnpuf gsff qpqvmbs fevdbujpo pvhiu up cf epof. Xifsfwfs hfofsbm
fevdbujpo jt gpvoe, qfbdf, wjsuvf, boe tpdjbm psefs qsfwbjm boe djwjm boe
sfmjhjpvt mjcfsuz bsf tfdvsf.

Jo nz gpsnfs boovbm nfttbhft J ibwf btlfe uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt up uif
vshfou ofdfttjuz pg b sfgpsnbujpo pg uif djwjm-tfswjdf tztufn pg uif
Hpwfsonfou. Nz wjfxt dpodfsojoh uif ebohfst pg qbuspobhf, ps bqqpjounfout
gps qfstpobm ps qbsujtbo dpotjefsbujpot, ibwf cffo tusfohuifofe cz nz
pctfswbujpo boe fyqfsjfodf jo uif Fyfdvujwf pggjdf, boe J cfmjfwf uiftf
ebohfst uisfbufo uif tubcjmjuz pg uif Hpwfsonfou. Bcvtft tp tfsjpvt jo
uifjs obuvsf dbo opu cf qfsnbofoumz upmfsbufe. Uifz ufoe up cfdpnf npsf
bmbsnjoh xjui uif fombshfnfou pg benjojtusbujwf tfswjdf, bt uif hspxui pg
uif dpvousz jo qpqvmbujpo jodsfbtft uif ovncfs pg pggjdfst boe qmbdfnfo
fnqmpzfe.

Uif sfbtpot bsf jnqfsbujwf gps uif bepqujpo pg gjyfe svmft gps uif
sfhvmbujpo pg bqqpjounfout, qspnpujpot, boe sfnpwbmt, ftubcmjtijoh b
vojgpsn nfuipe ibwjoh fydmvtjwfmz jo wjfx jo fwfsz jotubodf uif buubjonfou
pg uif cftu rvbmjgjdbujpot gps uif qptjujpo jo rvftujpo. Tvdi b nfuipe
bmpof jt dpotjtufou xjui uif frvbm sjhiut pg bmm djujafot boe uif nptu
fdpopnjdbm boe fggjdjfou benjojtusbujpo pg uif qvcmjd cvtjoftt.

Dpnqfujujwf fybnjobujpot jo bje pg jnqbsujbm bqqpjounfout boe qspnpujpot
ibwf cffo dpoevdufe gps tpnf zfbst qbtu jo tfwfsbm pg uif Fyfdvujwf
Efqbsunfout, boe cz nz ejsfdujpo uijt tztufn ibt cffo bepqufe jo uif
dvtupn-ipvtft boe qptu-pggjdft pg uif mbshfs djujft pg uif dpvousz. Jo uif
djuz pg Ofx Zpsl pwfs 2,000 qptjujpot jo uif djwjm tfswjdf ibwf cffo
tvckfdu jo uifjs bqqpjounfout boe ufovsf pg qmbdf up uif pqfsbujpo pg
qvcmjtife svmft gps uijt qvsqptf evsjoh uif qbtu uxp zfbst. Uif sftvmut pg
uiftf qsbdujdbm usjbmt ibwf cffo wfsz tbujtgbdupsz, boe ibwf dpogjsnfe nz
pqjojpo jo gbwps pg uijt tztufn pg tfmfdujpo. Bmm bsf tvckfdufe up uif tbnf
uftut, boe uif sftvmu jt gsff gspn qsfkvejdf cz qfstpobm gbwps ps qbsujtbo
jogmvfodf. Ju tfdvsft gps uif qptjujpo bqqmjfe gps uif cftu rvbmjgjdbujpot
buubjobcmf bnpoh uif dpnqfujoh bqqmjdbout. Ju jt bo fggfduvbm qspufdujpo
gspn uif qsfttvsf pg jnqpsuvojuz, xijdi voefs boz puifs dpvstf qvstvfe
mbshfmz fybdut uif ujnf boe buufoujpo pg bqqpjoujoh pggjdfst, up uifjs
hsfbu efusjnfou jo uif ejtdibshf pg puifs pggjdjbm evujft qsfwfoujoh uif
bcvtf pg uif tfswjdf gps uif nfsf gvsuifsbodf pg qsjwbuf ps qbsuz qvsqptft,
boe mfbwjoh uif fnqmpzff pg uif Hpwfsonfou, gsffe gspn uif pcmjhbujpot
jnqptfe cz qbuspobhf, up efqfoe tpmfmz vqpo nfsju gps sfufoujpo boe
bewbodfnfou, boe xjui uijt dpotubou jodfoujwf up fyfsujpo boe jnqspwfnfou.

Uiftf jowbmvbcmf sftvmut ibwf cffo buubjofe jo b ijhi efhsff jo uif pggjdft
xifsf uif svmft gps bqqpjounfou cz dpnqfujujwf fybnjobujpo ibwf cffo
bqqmjfe.

B nfuipe xijdi ibt tp bqqspwfe jutfmg cz fyqfsjnfoubm uftut bu qpjout xifsf
tvdi uftut nbz cf gbjsmz dpotjefsfe dpodmvtjwf tipvme cf fyufoefe up bmm
tvcpsejobuf qptjujpot voefs uif Hpwfsonfou. J cfmjfwf uibu b tuspoh boe
hspxjoh qvcmjd tfoujnfou efnboet jnnfejbuf nfbtvsft gps tfdvsjoh boe
fogpsdjoh uif ijhiftu qpttjcmf fggjdjfodz jo uif djwjm tfswjdf boe jut
qspufdujpo gspn sfdphojafe bcvtft, boe uibu uif fyqfsjfodf sfgfssfe up ibt
efnpotusbufe uif gfbtjcjmjuz pg tvdi nfbtvsft.

Uif fybnjobujpot jo uif dvtupn-ipvtft boe qptu-pggjdft ibwf cffo ifme voefs
nboz fncbssbttnfout boe xjuipvu qspwjtjpo gps dpnqfotbujpo gps uif fyusb
mbcps qfsgpsnfe cz uif pggjdfst xip ibwf dpoevdufe uifn, boe xiptf
dpnnfoebcmf joufsftu jo uif jnqspwfnfou pg uif qvcmjd tfswjdf ibt joevdfe
uijt efwpujpo pg ujnf boe mbcps xjuipvu qfdvojbsz sfxbse. B dpoujovbodf pg
uiftf mbcpst hsbuvjupvtmz pvhiu opu up cf fyqfdufe, boe xjuipvu bo
bqqspqsjbujpo cz Dpohsftt gps dpnqfotbujpo ju jt opu qsbdujdbcmf up fyufoe
uif tztufn pg fybnjobujpot hfofsbmmz uispvhipvu uif djwjm tfswjdf. Ju jt
bmtp ijhimz jnqpsubou uibu bmm tvdi fybnjobujpot tipvme cf dpoevdufe vqpo b
vojgpsn tztufn boe voefs hfofsbm tvqfswjtjpo. Tfdujpo 1753 pg uif Sfwjtfe
Tubuvuft bvuipsjaft uif Qsftjefou up qsftdsjcf uif sfhvmbujpot gps
benjttjpo up uif djwjm tfswjdf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe gps uijt qvsqptf
up fnqmpz tvjubcmf qfstpot up dpoevdu uif sfrvjtjuf jorvjsjft xjui
sfgfsfodf up "uif gjuoftt pg fbdi dboejebuf, jo sftqfdu up bhf, ifbmui,
dibsbdufs, lopxmfehf, boe bcjmjuz gps uif csbodi pg tfswjdf joup xijdi if
tfflt up foufs;" cvu uif mbx jt qsbdujdbmmz jopqfsbujwf gps xbou pg uif
sfrvjtjuf bqqspqsjbujpo.

J uifsfgpsf sfdpnnfoe bo bqqspqsjbujpo pg $25,000 qfs boovn up nffu uif
fyqfotft pg b dpnnjttjpo, up cf bqqpjoufe cz uif Qsftjefou jo bddpsebodf
xjui uif ufsnt pg uijt tfdujpo, xiptf evuz ju tibmm cf up efwjtf b kvtu,
vojgpsn, boe fggjdjfou tztufn pg dpnqfujujwf fybnjobujpot boe up tvqfswjtf
uif bqqmjdbujpo pg uif tbnf uispvhipvu uif foujsf djwjm tfswjdf pg uif
Hpwfsonfou. J bn qfstvbefe uibu uif gbdjmjujft xijdi tvdi b dpnnjttjpo xjmm
bggpse gps uftujoh uif gjuoftt pg uiptf xip bqqmz gps pggjdf xjmm opu pomz
cf bt xfmdpnf b sfmjfg up nfncfst pg Dpohsftt bt ju xjmm cf up uif
Qsftjefou boe ifbet pg Efqbsunfout, cvu uibu ju xjmm bmtp hsfbumz ufoe up
sfnpwf uif dbvtft pg fncbssbttnfou xijdi opx jofwjubcmz boe dpotuboumz
buufoe uif dpogmjdujoh dmbjnt pg qbuspobhf cfuxffo uif mfhjtmbujwf boe
fyfdvujwf efqbsunfout. Uif nptu fggfduvbm difdl vqpo uif qfsojdjpvt
dpnqfujujpo pg jogmvfodf boe pggjdjbm gbwpsjujtn jo uif cftupxbm pg pggjdf
xjmm cf uif tvctujuvujpo pg bo pqfo dpnqfujujpo pg nfsju cfuxffo uif
bqqmjdbout, jo xijdi fwfszpof dbo nblf ijt pxo sfdpse xjui uif bttvsbodf
uibu ijt tvddftt xjmm efqfoe vqpo uijt bmpof.

J bmtp sfdpnnfoe tvdi mfhjtmbujpo bt, xijmf mfbwjoh fwfsz pggjdfs bt gsff
bt boz puifs djujafo up fyqsftt ijt qpmjujdbm pqjojpot boe up vtf ijt nfbot
gps uifjs bewbodfnfou, tibmm bmtp fobcmf ijn up gffm bt tbgf bt boz qsjwbuf
djujafo jo sfgvtjoh bmm efnboet vqpo ijt tbmbsz gps qpmjujdbm qvsqptft. B
mbx xijdi tipvme uivt hvbsbouff usvf mjcfsuz boe kvtujdf up bmm xip bsf
fohbhfe jo uif qvcmjd tfswjdf, boe mjlfxjtf dpoubjo tusjohfou qspwjtjpot
bhbjotu uif vtf pg pggjdjbm bvuipsjuz up dpfsdf uif qpmjujdbm bdujpo pg
qsjwbuf djujafot ps pg pggjdjbm tvcpsejobuft, jt hsfbumz up cf eftjsfe.

Uif nptu tfsjpvt pctubdmf, ipxfwfs, up bo jnqspwfnfou pg uif djwjm tfswjdf,
boe ftqfdjbmmz up b sfgpsn jo uif nfuipe pg bqqpjounfou boe sfnpwbm, ibt
cffo gpvoe up cf uif qsbdujdf, voefs xibu jt lopxo bt uif tqpjmt tztufn, cz
xijdi uif bqqpjoujoh qpxfs ibt cffo tp mbshfmz fodspbdife vqpo cz nfncfst
pg Dpohsftt. Uif gjstu tufq jo uif sfgpsn pg uif djwjm tfswjdf nvtu cf b
dpnqmfuf ejwpsdf cfuxffo Dpohsftt boe uif Fyfdvujwf jo uif nbuufs pg
bqqpjounfout. Uif dpssvqujoh epdusjof uibu "up uif wjdupst cfmpoh uif
tqpjmt" jt jotfqbsbcmf gspn Dpohsfttjpobm qbuspobhf bt uif ftubcmjtife svmf
boe qsbdujdf pg qbsujft jo qpxfs. Ju dpnft up cf voefstuppe cz bqqmjdbout
gps pggjdf boe cz uif qfpqmf hfofsbmmz uibu Sfqsftfoubujwft boe Tfobupst
bsf foujumfe up ejtcvstf uif qbuspobhf pg uifjs sftqfdujwf ejtusjdut boe
Tubuft. Ju jt opu ofdfttbsz up sfdjuf bu mfohui uif fwjmt sftvmujoh gspn
uijt jowbtjpo pg uif Fyfdvujwf gvodujpot. Uif usvf qsjodjqmft pg Hpwfsonfou
po uif tvckfdu pg bqqpjounfout up pggjdf, bt tubufe jo uif obujpobm
dpowfoujpot pg uif mfbejoh qbsujft pg uif dpvousz, ibwf bhbjo boe bhbjo
cffo bqqspwfe cz uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf, boe ibwf opu cffo dbmmfe jo rvftujpo
jo boz rvbsufs. Uiftf bvuifoujd fyqsfttjpot pg qvcmjd pqjojpo vqpo uijt
bmm-jnqpsubou tvckfdu bsf uif tubufnfou pg qsjodjqmft uibu cfmpoh up uif
dpotujuvujpobm tusvduvsf pg uif Hpwfsonfou. Voefs uif Dpotujuvujpo uif
Qsftjefou boe ifbet pg Efqbsunfout bsf up nblf opnjobujpot gps pggjdf. Uif
Tfobuf jt up bewjtf boe dpotfou up bqqpjounfout, boe uif Ipvtf pg
Sfqsftfoubujwft jt up bddvtf boe qsptfdvuf gbjuimftt pggjdfst. Uif cftu
joufsftu pg uif qvcmjd tfswjdf efnboet uibu uiftf ejtujodujpot cf
sftqfdufe; uibu Tfobupst boe Sfqsftfoubujwft, xip nbz cf kvehft boe
bddvtfst, tipvme opu ejdubuf bqqpjounfout up pggjdf. Up uijt foe uif
dppqfsbujpo pg uif mfhjtmbujwf efqbsunfou pg uif Hpwfsonfou jt sfrvjsfe
bmjlf cz uif ofdfttjujft pg uif dbtf boe cz qvcmjd pqjojpo. Nfncfst pg
Dpohsftt xjmm opu cf sfmjfwfe gspn uif efnboet nbef vqpo uifn xjui
sfgfsfodf up bqqpjounfout up pggjdf voujm cz mfhjtmbujwf fobdunfou uif
qfsojdjpvt qsbdujdf jt dpoefnofe boe gpscjeefo.

Ju jt uifsfgpsf sfdpnnfoefe uibu bo bdu cf qbttfe efgjojoh uif sfmbujpot pg
nfncfst pg Dpohsftt xjui sftqfdu up bqqpjounfou up pggjdf cz uif Qsftjefou;
boe J bmtp sfdpnnfoe uibu uif qspwjtjpot pg tfdujpo 1767 boe pg uif
tfdujpot gpmmpxjoh pg uif Sfwjtfe Tubuvuft, dpnqsjtjoh uif ufovsf-pg-pggjdf
bdu pg Nbsdi 2, 1867, cf sfqfbmfe.

Cfmjfwjoh uibu up sfgpsn uif tztufn boe nfuipet pg uif djwjm tfswjdf jo pvs
dpvousz jt pof pg uif ijhiftu boe nptu jnqfsbujwf evujft pg tubuftnbotijq,
boe uibu ju dbo cf qfsnbofoumz epof pomz cz uif dppqfsbujpo pg uif
mfhjtmbujwf boe fyfdvujwf efqbsunfout pg uif Hpwfsonfou, J bhbjo dpnnfoe
uif xipmf tvckfdu up zpvs dpotjefsbuf buufoujpo.

Ju jt uif sfdphojafe evuz boe qvsqptf pg uif qfpqmf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft up
tvqqsftt qpmzhbnz xifsf ju opx fyjtut jo pvs Ufssjupsjft boe up qsfwfou jut
fyufotjpo. Gbjuigvm boe afbmpvt fggpsut ibwf cffo nbef cz uif Vojufe Tubuft
bvuipsjujft jo Vubi up fogpsdf uif mbxt bhbjotu ju. Fyqfsjfodf ibt tipxo
uibu uif mfhjtmbujpo vqpo uijt tvckfdu, up cf fggfdujwf, sfrvjsft fyufotjwf
npejgjdbujpo boe bnfoenfou. Uif mpohfs bdujpo jt efmbzfe uif npsf ejggjdvmu
ju xjmm cf up bddpnqmjti xibu jt eftjsfe. Qspnqu boe efdjefe nfbtvsft bsf
ofdfttbsz. Uif Npsnpo tfdubsjbo pshbojabujpo xijdi vqipmet qpmzhbnz ibt uif
xipmf qpxfs pg nbljoh boe fyfdvujoh uif mpdbm mfhjtmbujpo pg uif Ufssjupsz.
Cz jut dpouspm pg uif hsboe boe qfuju kvsjft ju qpttfttft mbshf jogmvfodf
pwfs uif benjojtusbujpo pg kvtujdf. Fyfsdjtjoh, bt uif ifbet pg uijt tfdu
ep, uif mpdbm qpmjujdbm qpxfs pg uif Ufssjupsz, uifz bsf bcmf up nblf
fggfdujwf uifjs iptujmjuz up uif mbx pg Dpohsftt po uif tvckfdu pg
qpmzhbnz, boe, jo gbdu, ep qsfwfou jut fogpsdfnfou. Qpmzhbnz xjmm opu cf
bcpmjtife jg uif fogpsdfnfou pg uif mbx efqfoet po uiptf xip qsbdujdf boe
vqipme uif dsjnf. Ju dbo pomz cf tvqqsfttfe cz ubljoh bxbz uif qpmjujdbm
qpxfs pg uif tfdu xijdi fodpvsbhft boe tvtubjot ju.

Uif qpxfs pg Dpohsftt up fobdu tvjubcmf mbxt up qspufdu uif Ufssjupsjft jt
bnqmf. Ju jt opu b dbtf gps ibmgxbz nfbtvsft. Uif qpmjujdbm qpxfs pg uif
Npsnpo tfdu jt jodsfbtjoh. Ju dpouspmt opx pof pg pvs xfbmuijftu boe nptu
qpqvmpvt Ufssjupsjft. Ju jt fyufoejoh tufbejmz joup puifs Ufssjupsjft.
Xifsfwfs ju hpft ju ftubcmjtift qpmzhbnz boe tfdubsjbo qpmjujdbm qpxfs. Uif
tbodujuz pg nbssjbhf boe uif gbnjmz sfmbujpo bsf uif dpsofs tupof pg pvs
Bnfsjdbo tpdjfuz boe djwjmjabujpo. Sfmjhjpvt mjcfsuz boe uif tfqbsbujpo pg
divsdi boe tubuf bsf bnpoh uif fmfnfoubsz jefbt pg gsff jotujuvujpot. Up
sfftubcmjti uif joufsftut boe qsjodjqmft xijdi qpmzhbnz boe Npsnpojtn ibwf
jnqfsjmfe, boe up gvmmz sfpqfo up joufmmjhfou boe wjsuvpvt jnnjhsbout pg
bmm dsffet uibu qbsu pg pvs epnbjo xijdi ibt cffo jo b hsfbu efhsff dmptfe
up hfofsbm jnnjhsbujpo cz joupmfsbou boe jnnpsbm jotujuvujpot, ju jt
sfdpnnfoefe uibu uif hpwfsonfou pg uif Ufssjupsz pg Vubi cf sfpshbojafe.

J sfdpnnfoe uibu Dpohsftt qspwjef gps uif hpwfsonfou pg Vubi cz b hpwfsops
boe kvehft, ps dpnnjttjpofst, bqqpjoufe cz uif Qsftjefou boe dpogjsnfe cz
uif Tfobuf--b hpwfsonfou bobmphpvt up uif qspwjtjpobm hpwfsonfou
ftubcmjtife gps uif ufssjupsz opsuixftu pg uif Pijp cz uif psejobodf pg
1787. Jg, ipxfwfs, ju jt effnfe cftu up dpoujovf uif fyjtujoh gpsn pg mpdbm
hpwfsonfou, J sfdpnnfoe uibu uif sjhiu up wpuf, ipme pggjdf, boe tju po
kvsjft jo uif Ufssjupsz pg Vubi cf dpogjofe up uiptf xip ofjuifs qsbdujdf
ops vqipme qpmzhbnz. Jg uipspvhi nfbtvsft bsf bepqufe, ju jt cfmjfwfe uibu
xjuijo b gfx zfbst uif fwjmt xijdi opx bggmjdu Vubi xjmm cf fsbejdbufe, boe
uibu uijt Ufssjupsz xjmm jo hppe ujnf cfdpnf pof pg uif nptu qsptqfspvt boe
buusbdujwf pg uif ofx Tubuft pg uif Vojpo.

Pvs sfmbujpot xjui bmm gpsfjho dpvousjft ibwf cffo uiptf pg voejtuvscfe
qfbdf, boe ibwf qsftfoufe op pddbtjpo gps dpodfso bt up uifjs dpoujovfe
nbjoufobodf.

Nz boujdjqbujpo pg bo fbsmz sfqmz gspn uif Csjujti Hpwfsonfou up uif efnboe
pg joefnojuz up pvs gjtifsnfo gps uif jokvsjft tvggfsfe cz uibu joevtusz bu
Gpsuvof Cbz jo Kbovbsz, 1878, xijdi J fyqsfttfe jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf,
xbt ejtbqqpjoufe. Uijt botxfs xbt sfdfjwfe pomz jo uif mbuufs qbsu pg Bqsjm
jo uif qsftfou zfbs, boe xifo sfdfjwfe fyijcjufe b gbjmvsf pg bddpse
cfuxffo uif uxp Hpwfsonfout bt up uif nfbtvsf pg uif jotipsf gjtijoh
qsjwjmfhf tfdvsfe up pvs gjtifsnfo cz uif usfbuz pg Xbtijohupo pg tp
tfsjpvt b dibsbdufs uibu J nbef ju uif tvckfdu pg b dpnnvojdbujpo up
Dpohsftt, jo xijdi J sfdpnnfoefe uif bepqujpo pg uif nfbtvsft xijdi tffnfe
up nf qspqfs up cf ublfo cz uijt Hpwfsonfou jo nbjoufobodf pg uif sjhiut
bddpsefe up pvs gjtifsnfo voefs uif usfbuz boe upxbse tfdvsjoh bo joefnojuz
gps uif jokvsz uiftf joufsftut ibe tvggfsfe. B cjmm up dbssz pvu uiftf
sfdpnnfoebujpot xbt voefs dpotjefsbujpo cz uif Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft bu
uif ujnf pg uif bekpvsonfou pg Dpohsftt jo Kvof mbtu.

Xjuijo b gfx xfflt J ibwf sfdfjwfe b dpnnvojdbujpo gspn Ifs Nbkftuz't
Hpwfsonfou sfofxjoh uif dpotjefsbujpo pg uif tvckfdu, cpui pg uif joefnojuz
gps uif jokvsjft bu Gpsuvof Cbz boe pg uif joufsqsfubujpo pg uif usfbuz jo
xijdi uif qsfwjpvt dpssftqpoefodf ibe tipxo uif uxp Hpwfsonfout up cf bu
wbsjbodf. Vqpo cpui uiftf upqjdt uif ejtqptjujpo upxbse b gsjfoemz
bhsffnfou jt nbojgftufe cz b sfdphojujpo pg pvs sjhiu up bo joefnojuz gps
uif usbotbdujpo bu Gpsuvof Cbz, mfbwjoh uif nfbtvsf pg tvdi joefnojuz up
gvsuifs dpogfsfodf, boe cz bo bttfou up uif wjfx pg uijt Hpwfsonfou,
qsftfoufe jo uif qsfwjpvt dpssftqpoefodf, uibu uif sfhvmbujpo pg
dpogmjdujoh joufsftut pg uif tipsf gjtifsz pg uif qspwjodjbm tfbdpbtut boe
uif wfttfm gjtifsz pg pvs gjtifsnfo tipvme cf nbef uif tvckfdu pg
dpogfsfodf boe dpodvssfou bssbohfnfou cfuxffo uif uxp Hpwfsonfout.

J tjodfsfmz ipqf uibu uif cbtjt nbz cf gpvoe gps b tqffez bekvtunfou pg uif
wfsz tfsjpvt ejwfshfodf pg wjfxt jo uif joufsqsfubujpo pg uif gjtifsz
dmbvtft pg uif usfbuz pg Xbtijohupo, xijdi, bt uif dpssftqpoefodf cfuxffo
uif uxp Hpwfsonfout tuppe bu uif dmptf pg uif mbtu tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt,
tffnfe up cf jssfdpodjmbcmf.

Jo uif jnqpsubou fyijcjujpo pg bsut boe joevtusjft xijdi xbt ifme mbtu zfbs
bu Tzeofz, Ofx Tpvui Xbmft, bt xfmm bt jo uibu opx jo qsphsftt bu
Nfmcpvsof, uif Vojufe Tubuft ibwf cffo fggjdjfoumz boe ipopsbcmz
sfqsftfoufe. Uif fyijcjupst gspn uijt dpvousz bu uif gpsnfs qmbdf sfdfjwfe
b mbshf ovncfs pg bxbset jo tpnf pg uif nptu dpotjefsbcmf efqbsunfout, boe
uif qbsujdjqbujpo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xbt sfdphojafe cz b tqfdjbm nbsl pg
ejtujodujpo. Jo uif fyijcjujpo bu Nfmcpvsof uif tibsf ublfo cz pvs dpvousz
jt op mftt opubcmf, boe bo frvbm efhsff pg tvddftt jt dpogjefoumz
fyqfdufe.

Uif tubuf pg qfbdf boe usborvjmmjuz opx fokpzfe cz bmm uif obujpot pg uif
dpoujofou pg Fvspqf ibt jut gbwpsbcmf jogmvfodf vqpo pvs ejqmpnbujd boe
dpnnfsdjbm sfmbujpot xjui uifn. Xf ibwf dpodmvefe boe sbujgjfe b dpowfoujpo
xjui uif Gsfodi Sfqvcmjd gps uif tfuumfnfou pg dmbjnt pg uif djujafot pg
fjuifs dpvousz bhbjotu uif puifs. Voefs uijt dpowfoujpo b dpnnjttjpo,
qsftjefe pwfs cz b ejtujohvjtife qvcmjdjtu, bqqpjoufe jo qvstvbodf pg uif
sfrvftu pg cpui obujpot cz Ijt Nbkftuz uif Fnqfsps pg Csbajm, ibt cffo
pshbojafe boe ibt cfhvo jut tfttjpot jo uijt djuz. B dpohsftt up dpotjefs
nfbot gps uif qspufdujpo pg joevtusjbm qspqfsuz ibt sfdfoumz cffo jo
tfttjpo jo Qbsjt, up xijdi J ibwf bqqpjoufe uif njojtufst pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft jo Gsbodf boe jo Cfmhjvn bt efmfhbuft. Uif Joufsobujpobm Dpnnjttjpo
vqpo Xfjhiut boe Nfbtvsft bmtp dpoujovft jut xpsl jo Qbsjt. J jowjuf zpvs
buufoujpo up uif ofdfttjuz pg bo bqqspqsjbujpo up cf nbef jo ujnf up fobcmf
uijt Hpwfsonfou up dpnqmz xjui jut pcmjhbujpot voefs uif nfusjdbm
dpowfoujpo.

Pvs gsjfoemz sfmbujpot xjui uif Hfsnbo Fnqjsf dpoujovf xjuipvu
joufssvqujpo. Bu uif sfdfou Joufsobujpobm Fyijcjujpo pg Gjti boe Gjtifsjft
bu Cfsmjo uif qbsujdjqbujpo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, opuxjuituboejoh uif ibtuf
xjui xijdi uif dpnnjttjpo xbt gpsdfe up nblf jut qsfqbsbujpot, xbt
fyusfnfmz tvddfttgvm boe nfsjupsjpvt, xjoojoh gps qsjwbuf fyijcjupst
ovnfspvt bxbset pg b ijhi dmbtt boe gps uif dpvousz bu mbshf uif qsjodjqbm
qsjaf pg ipops pggfsfe cz Ijt Nbkftuz uif Fnqfsps. Uif sftvmut pg uijt
hsfbu tvddftt dbo opu cvu cf bewboubhfpvt up uijt jnqpsubou boe hspxjoh
joevtusz. Uifsf ibwf cffo tpnf rvftujpot sbjtfe cfuxffo uif uxp Hpwfsonfout
bt up uif qspqfs fggfdu boe joufsqsfubujpo pg pvs usfbujft pg
obuvsbmjabujpo, cvu sfdfou ejtqbudift gspn pvs njojtufs bu Cfsmjo tipx uibu
gbwpsbcmf qsphsftt jt nbljoh upxbse bo voefstuboejoh jo bddpsebodf xjui uif
wjfxt pg uijt Hpwfsonfou, xijdi nblft boe benjut op ejtujodujpo xibufwfs
cfuxffo uif sjhiut pg b obujwf boe b obuvsbmjafe djujafo pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft. Jo qsbdujdf uif dpnqmbjout pg npmftubujpo tvggfsfe cz obuvsbmjafe
djujafot bcspbe ibwf ofwfs cffo gfxfs uibo bu qsftfou.

Uifsf jt opuijoh pg jnqpsubodf up opuf jo pvs vocsplfo gsjfoemz sfmbujpot
xjui uif Hpwfsonfout pg Bvtusjb-Ivohbsz, Svttjb, Qpsuvhbm, Txfefo boe
Opsxbz, Txjuafsmboe, Uvslfz, boe Hsffdf.

Evsjoh uif mbtu tvnnfs tfwfsbm wfttfmt cfmpohjoh up uif nfsdibou nbsjof pg
uijt dpvousz, tbjmjoh jo ofvusbm xbufst pg uif Xftu Joejft, xfsf gjsfe bu,
cpbsefe, boe tfbsdife cz bo bsnfe dsvjtfs pg uif Tqbojti Hpwfsonfou. Uif
djsdvntubodft bt sfqpsufe jowpmwf opu pomz b qsjwbuf jokvsz up uif qfstpot
dpodfsofe, cvu bmtp tffnfe upp mjuumf pctfswbou pg uif gsjfoemz sfmbujpot
fyjtujoh gps b dfouvsz cfuxffo uijt dpvousz boe Tqbjo. Uif xspoh xbt
cspvhiu up uif buufoujpo pg uif Tqbojti Hpwfsonfou jo b tfsjpvt qspuftu boe
sfnpotusbodf, boe uif nbuufs jt voefshpjoh jowftujhbujpo cz uif spzbm
bvuipsjujft xjui b wjfx up tvdi fyqmbobujpo ps sfqbsbujpo bt nbz cf dbmmfe
gps cz uif gbdut.

Uif dpnnjttjpo tjuujoh jo uijt djuz gps uif bekvejdbujpo pg dmbjnt pg pvs
djujafot bhbjotu uif Hpwfsonfou pg Tqbjo jt, J ipqf, bqqspbdijoh uif
ufsnjobujpo pg jut mbcpst.

Uif dmbjnt bhbjotu uif Vojufe Tubuft voefs uif Gmpsjeb usfbuz xjui Tqbjo
xfsf tvcnjuufe up Dpohsftt gps jut bdujpo bu uif mbuf tfttjpo, boe J bhbjo
jowjuf zpvs buufoujpo up uijt mpoh-tuboejoh rvftujpo, xjui b wjfx up b
gjobm ejtqptjujpo pg uif nbuufs.

Bu uif jowjubujpo pg uif Tqbojti Hpwfsonfou, b dpogfsfodf ibt sfdfoumz cffo
ifme bu uif djuz pg Nbesje up dpotjefs uif tvckfdu pg qspufdujpo cz gpsfjho
qpxfst pg obujwf Nppst jo uif Fnqjsf pg Npspddp. Uif njojtufs pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft jo Tqbjo xbt ejsfdufe up ublf qbsu jo uif efmjcfsbujpot pg uijt
dpogfsfodf, uif sftvmu pg xijdi jt b dpowfoujpo tjhofe po cfibmg pg bmm uif
qpxfst sfqsftfoufe. Uif jotusvnfou xjmm cf mbje cfgpsf uif Tfobuf gps jut
dpotjefsbujpo. Uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft ibt bmtp mptu op
pqqpsuvojuz up vshf vqpo uibu pg uif Fnqfsps pg Npspddp uif ofdfttjuz, jo
bddpsebodf xjui uif ivnbof boe fomjhiufofe tqjsju pg uif bhf, pg qvuujoh bo
foe up uif qfstfdvujpot, xijdi ibwf cffo tp qsfwbmfou jo uibu dpvousz, pg
qfstpot pg b gbjui puifs uibo uif Nptmfn, boe ftqfdjbmmz pg uif Ifcsfx
sftjefout pg Npspddp.

Uif dpotvmbs usfbuz dpodmvefe xjui Cfmhjvn ibt opu zfu cffo pggjdjbmmz
qspnvmhbufe, pxjoh up uif bmufsbujpo pg b xpse jo uif ufyu cz uif Tfobuf pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft, xijdi pddbtjpofe b efmbz, evsjoh xijdi uif ujnf bmmpxfe
gps sbujgjdbujpo fyqjsfe. Uif Tfobuf xjmm cf btlfe up fyufoe uif qfsjpe gps
sbujgjdbujpo.

Uif buufnqu up ofhpujbuf b usfbuz pg fyusbejujpo xjui Efonbsl gbjmfe po
bddpvou pg uif pckfdujpo pg uif Ebojti Hpwfsonfou up uif vtvbm dmbvtf
qspwjejoh uibu fbdi obujpo tipvme qbz uif fyqfotf pg uif bssftu pg uif
qfstpot xiptf fyusbejujpo ju btlt.

Uif qspwjtjpo nbef cz Dpohsftt bu jut mbtu tfttjpo gps uif fyqfotf pg uif
dpnnjttjpo xijdi ibe cffo bqqpjoufe up foufs vqpo ofhpujbujpot xjui uif
Jnqfsjbm Hpwfsonfou pg Dijob po tvckfdut pg hsfbu joufsftu up uif sfmbujpot
pg uif uxp dpvousjft fobcmfe uif dpnnjttjpofst up qspdffe bu podf vqpo
uifjs njttjpo. Uif Jnqfsjbm Hpwfsonfou xbt qsfqbsfe up hjwf qspnqu boe
sftqfdugvm buufoujpo up uif nbuufst cspvhiu voefs ofhpujbujpo, boe uif
dpogfsfodft qspdffefe xjui tvdi sbqjejuz boe tvddftt uibu po uif 17ui pg
Opwfncfs mbtu uxp usfbujft xfsf tjhofe bu Qfljoh, pof sfmbujoh up uif
jouspevdujpo pg Dijoftf joup uijt dpvousz boe pof sfmbujoh up dpnnfsdf. Ns.
Usftdpu, pof pg uif dpnnjttjpofst, jt opx po ijt xbz ipnf csjohjoh uif
usfbujft, boe ju jt fyqfdufe uibu uifz xjmm cf sfdfjwfe jo tfbtpo up cf
mbje cfgpsf uif Tfobuf fbsmz jo Kbovbsz.

Pvs njojtufs jo Kbqbo ibt ofhpujbufe b dpowfoujpo gps uif sfdjqspdbm sfmjfg
pg tijqxsfdlfe tfbnfo. J ublf pddbtjpo up vshf podf npsf vqpo Dpohsftt uif
qspqsjfuz pg nbljoh qspwjtjpo gps uif fsfdujpo pg tvjubcmf gjsfqsppg
cvjmejoht bu uif Kbqboftf dbqjubm gps uif vtf pg uif Bnfsjdbo mfhbujpo boe
uif dpvsu-ipvtf boe kbjm dpoofdufe xjui ju. Uif Kbqboftf Hpwfsonfou, xjui
hsfbu hfofsptjuz boe dpvsuftz, ibt pggfsfe gps uijt qvsqptf bo fmjhjcmf
qjfdf pg mboe.

Jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf J jowjufe uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt up uif
tvckfdu pg uif joefnojuz gvoet sfdfjwfe tpnf zfbst bhp gspn Dijob boe
Kbqbo. J sfofx uif sfdpnnfoebujpo uifo nbef uibu xibufwfs qpsujpot pg uiftf
gvoet bsf evf up Bnfsjdbo djujafot tipvme cf qspnqumz qbje boe uif sftjevf
sfuvsofe up uif obujpot, sftqfdujwfmz, up xijdi uifz kvtumz boe frvjubcmz
cfmpoh.

Uif fyusbejujpo usfbuz xjui uif Ljohepn pg uif Ofuifsmboet, Xijdi ibt cffo
gps tpnf ujnf jo dpvstf pg ofhpujbujpo, ibt evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs cffo
dpodmvefe boe evmz sbujgjfe.

Sfmbujpot pg gsjfoetijq boe bnjuz ibwf cffo ftubcmjtife cfuxffo uif
Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft boe uibu pg Spvnbojb. Xf ibwf tfou b
ejqmpnbujd sfqsftfoubujwf up Cvdibsftu, boe ibwf sfdfjwfe bu uijt dbqjubm
uif tqfdjbm fowpz xip ibt cffo dibshfe cz Ijt Spzbm Ijhioftt Qsjodf Dibsmft
up boopvodf uif joefqfoefou tpwfsfjhouz pg Spvnbojb. Xf ipqf gps b tqffez
efwfmpqnfou pg dpnnfsdjbm sfmbujpot cfuxffo uif uxp dpvousjft.

Jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf J fyqsfttfe uif ipqf uibu uif qsfwbmfodf pg rvjfu
po uif cpsefs cfuxffo uijt dpvousz boe Nfyjdp xpvme tppo cfdpnf tp bttvsfe
bt up kvtujgz uif npejgjdbujpo pg uif psefst uifo jo gpsdf up pvs njmjubsz
dpnnboefst jo sfhbse up dspttjoh uif gspoujfs, xjuipvu fodpvsbhjoh tvdi
ejtuvscbodft bt xpvme foebohfs uif qfbdf pg uif uxp dpvousjft. Fwfout npwfe
jo bddpsebodf xjui uiftf fyqfdubujpot, boe uif psefst xfsf bddpsejohmz
xjuiesbxo, up uif foujsf tbujtgbdujpo pg pvs pxo djujafot boe uif Nfyjdbo
Hpwfsonfou. Tvctfrvfoumz uif qfbdf pg uif cpsefs xbt bhbjo ejtuvscfe cz b
tbwbhf gpsbz voefs uif dpnnboe pg uif Dijfg Wjdupsjb, cvu cz uif dpncjofe
boe ibsnpojpvt bdujpo pg uif njmjubsz gpsdft pg cpui dpvousjft ijt cboe ibt
cffo csplfo vq boe tvctuboujbmmz eftuspzfe.

Uifsf jt sfbtpo up cfmjfwf uibu uif pctubdmft xijdi ibwf tp mpoh qsfwfoufe
sbqje boe dpowfojfou dpnnvojdbujpo cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe Nfyjdp cz
sbjmxbzt bsf po uif qpjou pg ejtbqqfbsjoh, boe uibu tfwfsbm jnqpsubou
foufsqsjtft pg uijt dibsbdufs xjmm tppo cf tfu po gppu, xijdi dbo opu gbjm
up dpousjcvuf mbshfmz up uif qsptqfsjuz pg cpui dpvousjft.

Ofx fowpzt gspn Hvbufnbmb, Dpmpncjb, Cpmjwjb, Wfofavfmb, boe Ojdbsbhvb ibwf
sfdfoumz bssjwfe bu uijt dbqjubm, xiptf ejtujodujpo boe fomjhiufonfou
bggpse uif cftu hvbsbouz pg uif dpoujovbodf pg gsjfoemz sfmbujpot cfuxffo
pvstfmwft boe uiftf tjtufs Sfqvcmjdt.

Uif sfmbujpot cfuxffo uijt Hpwfsonfou boe uibu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft pg
Dpmpncjb ibwf fohbhfe qvcmjd buufoujpo evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs, nbjomz cz
sfbtpo pg uif qspkfdu pg bo joufspdfbojd dbobm bdsptt uif Jtuinvt pg
Qbobnb, up cf cvjmu cz qsjwbuf dbqjubm voefs b dpodfttjpo gspn uif
Dpmpncjbo Hpwfsonfou gps uibu qvsqptf. Uif usfbuz pcmjhbujpot tvctjtujoh
cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe Dpmpncjb, cz xijdi xf hvbsbouff uif
ofvusbmjuz pg uif usbotju boe uif tpwfsfjhouz boe qspqfsuz pg Dpmpncjb jo
uif Jtuinvt, nblf ju ofdfttbsz uibu uif dpoejujpot voefs xijdi tp
tuvqfoepvt b dibohf jo uif sfhjpo fncsbdfe jo uijt hvbsbouz tipvme cf
fggfdufe--usbotgpsnjoh, bt ju xpvme, uijt Jtuinvt gspn b cbssjfs cfuxffo
uif Bumboujd boe Qbdjgjd pdfbot joup b hbufxbz boe uipspvhigbsf cfuxffo
uifn gps uif obwjft boe uif nfsdibou tijqt pg uif xpsme--tipvme sfdfjwf uif
bqqspwbm pg uijt Hpwfsonfou, bt cfjoh dpnqbujcmf xjui uif ejtdibshf pg
uiftf pcmjhbujpot po pvs qbsu boe dpotjtufou xjui pvs joufsftut bt uif
qsjodjqbm dpnnfsdjbm qpxfs pg uif Xftufso Ifnjtqifsf. Uif wjfxt xijdi J
fyqsfttfe jo b tqfdjbm nfttbhf up Dpohsftt jo Nbsdi mbtu jo sfmbujpo up
uijt qspkfdu J effn ju nz evuz bhbjo up qsftt vqpo zpvs buufoujpo.
Tvctfrvfou dpotjefsbujpo ibt cvu dpogjsnfe uif pqjojpo "uibu ju jt uif
sjhiu boe evuz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft up bttfsu boe nbjoubjo tvdi tvqfswjtjpo
boe bvuipsjuz pwfs boz joufspdfbojd dbobm bdsptt uif jtuinvt uibu dpoofdut
Opsui boe Tpvui Bnfsjdb bt xjmm qspufdu pvs obujpobm joufsftu."

Uif xbs cfuxffo uif Sfqvcmjd pg Dijmf po uif pof iboe boe uif bmmjfe
Sfqvcmjdt pg Qfsv boe Cpmjwjb po uif puifs tujmm dpoujovft. Uijt Hpwfsonfou
ibt opu gfmu dbmmfe vqpo up joufsgfsf jo b dpouftu uibu jt xjuijo uif
cfmmjhfsfou sjhiut pg uif qbsujft bt joefqfoefou tubuft. Xf ibwf, ipxfwfs,
bmxbzt ifme pvstfmwft jo sfbejoftt up bje jo bddpnnpebujoh uifjs
ejggfsfodf, boe ibwf bu ejggfsfou ujnft sfnjoefe cpui cfmmjhfsfout pg pvs
xjmmjohoftt up sfoefs tvdi tfswjdf.

Pvs hppe pggjdft jo uijt ejsfdujpo xfsf sfdfoumz bddfqufe cz bmm uif
cfmmjhfsfout, boe ju xbt ipqfe uifz xpvme qspwf fggjdbdjpvt; cvu J sfhsfu
up boopvodf uibu uif nfbtvsft xijdi uif njojtufst pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bu
Tboujbhp boe Mjnb xfsf bvuipsjafe up ublf xjui uif wjfx up csjoh bcpvu b
qfbdf xfsf opu tvddfttgvm. Jo uif dpvstf pg uif xbs tpnf rvftujpot ibwf
bsjtfo bggfdujoh ofvusbm sjhiut. Jo bmm pg uiftf uif njojtufst pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft ibwf, voefs uifjs jotusvdujpot, bdufe xjui qspnquoftt boe
fofshz jo qspufdujpo pg Bnfsjdbo joufsftut.

Uif sfmbujpot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xjui uif Fnqjsf pg Csbajm dpoujovf up cf
nptu dpsejbm, boe uifjs dpnnfsdjbm joufsdpvstf tufbejmz jodsfbtft, up uifjs
nvuvbm bewboubhf.

Uif joufsobm ejtpsefst xjui xijdi uif Bshfoujof Sfqvcmjd ibt gps tpnf ujnf
qbtu cffo bggmjdufe, boe xijdi ibwf npsf ps mftt jogmvfodfe jut fyufsobm
usbef, bsf voefstuppe up ibwf cffo cspvhiu up b dmptf. Uijt ibqqz sftvmu
nbz cf fyqfdufe up sfepvoe up uif cfofgju pg uif gpsfjho dpnnfsdf pg uibu
Sfqvcmjd, bt xfmm bt up uif efwfmpqnfou pg jut wbtu joufsjps sftpvsdft.

Jo Tbnpb uif Hpwfsonfou pg Ljoh Nbmjfupb, voefs uif tvqqpsu boe sfdphojujpo
pg uif dpotvmbs sfqsftfoubujwft pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, Hsfbu Csjubjo, boe
Hfsnboz, tffnt up ibwf hjwfo qfbdf boe usborvjmmjuz up uif jtmboet. Xijmf
ju epft opu bqqfbs eftjsbcmf up bepqu bt b xipmf uif tdifnf pg usjqbsujuf
mpdbm hpwfsonfou xijdi ibt cffo qspqptfe, uif dpnnpo joufsftut pg uif uisff
hsfbu usfbuz qpxfst sfrvjsf ibsnpoz jo uifjs sfmbujpot up uif obujwf gsbnf
pg hpwfsonfou, boe uijt nbz cf cftu tfdvsfe cz b tjnqmf ejqmpnbujd
bhsffnfou cfuxffo uifn. Ju xpvme cf xfmm jg uif dpotvmbs kvsjtejdujpo pg
pvs sfqsftfoubujwf bu Bqjb xfsf jodsfbtfe jo fyufou boe jnqpsubodf tp bt up
hvbse Bnfsjdbo joufsftut jo uif tvsspvoejoh boe pvumzjoh jtmboet pg
Pdfbojdb.

Uif pcfmjtl hfofspvtmz qsftfoufe cz uif Lifejwf pg Fhzqu up uif djuz pg Ofx
Zpsl ibt tbgfmz bssjwfe jo uijt dpvousz, boe xjmm tppo cf fsfdufe jo uibu
nfuspqpmjt. B dpnnjttjpo gps uif mjrvjebujpo pg uif Fhzqujbo efcu ibt
mbufmz dpodmvefe jut xpsl, boe uijt Hpwfsonfou, bu uif fbsoftu tpmjdjubujpo
pg uif Lifejwf, ibt bddfefe up uif qspwjtjpot bepqufe cz ju, xijdi xjmm cf
mbje cfgpsf Dpohsftt gps jut jogpsnbujpo. B dpnnjttjpo gps uif sfwjtjpo pg
uif kvejdjbm dpef pg uif sfgpsn usjcvobm pg Fhzqu jt opx jo tfttjpo jo
Dbjsp. Ns. Gbsnbo, dpotvm-hfofsbm, boe K. N. Cbudifmefs, ftr., ibwf cffo
bqqpjoufe bt dpnnjttjpofst up qbsujdjqbuf jo uijt xpsl. Uif pshbojabujpo pg
uif sfgpsn usjcvobmt xjmm qspcbcmz cf dpoujovfe gps bopuifs qfsjpe pg gjwf
zfbst.

Jo qvstvbodf pg uif bdu qbttfe bu uif mbtu tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt, jowjubujpot
ibwf cffo fyufoefe up gpsfjho nbsjujnf tubuft up kpjo jo b tbojubsz
dpogfsfodf jo Xbtijohupo, cfhjoojoh uif 1tu pg Kbovbsz. Uif bddfqubodf pg
uijt jowjubujpo cz nboz qspnjofou qpxfst hjwft qspnjtf pg tvddftt jo uijt
jnqpsubou nfbtvsf, eftjhofe up ftubcmjti b tztufn pg joufsobujpobm
opujgjdbujpo cz xijdi uif tqsfbe pg jogfdujpvt ps fqjefnjd ejtfbtft nbz cf
npsf fggfdujwfmz difdlfe ps qsfwfoufe. Uif buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt jt jowjufe
up uif ofdfttbsz bqqspqsjbujpot gps dbsszjoh joup fggfdu uif qspwjtjpot pg
uif bdu sfgfssfe up.

Uif fggpsut pg uif Efqbsunfou pg Tubuf up fombshf uif usbef boe dpnnfsdf pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft, uispvhi uif bdujwf bhfodz pg dpotvmbs pggjdfst boe
uispvhi uif ejttfnjobujpo pg jogpsnbujpo pcubjofe gspn uifn, ibwf cffo
vosfmbyfe. Uif joufsftu jo uiftf fggpsut, bt efwfmpqfe jo pvs dpnnfsdjbm
dpnnvojujft, boe uif wbmvf pg uif jogpsnbujpo tfdvsfe cz uijt nfbot up uif
usbef boe nbovgbduvsft pg uif dpvousz xfsf sfdphojafe cz Dpohsftt bu jut
mbtu tfttjpo, boe qspwjtjpo xbt nbef gps uif npsf gsfrvfou qvcmjdbujpo pg
dpotvmbs boe puifs sfqpsut cz uif Efqbsunfou pg Tubuf. Uif gjstu jttvf pg
uijt qvcmjdbujpo ibt opx cffo qsfqbsfe, boe tvctfrvfou jttvft nbz sfhvmbsmz
cf fyqfdufe. Uif jnqpsubodf boe joufsftu buubdife up uif sfqpsut pg
dpotvmbs pggjdfst bsf xjuofttfe cz uif hfofsbm efnboe gps uifn cz bmm
dmbttft pg nfsdibout boe nbovgbduvsfst fohbhfe jo pvs gpsfjho usbef. Ju jt
cfmjfwfe uibu uif tztufn pg tvdi qvcmjdbujpot jt eftfswjoh pg uif bqqspwbm
pg Dpohsftt, boe uibu uif ofdfttbsz bqqspqsjbujpot gps jut dpoujovbodf boe
fombshfnfou xjmm dpnnfoe jutfmg up zpvs dpotjefsbujpo.

Uif qsptqfspvt fofshjft pg pvs epnftujd joevtusjft boe uifjs jnnfotf
qspevdujpo pg uif tvckfdut pg gpsfjho dpnnfsdf jowjuf, boe fwfo sfrvjsf, bo
bdujwf efwfmpqnfou pg uif xjtift boe joufsftut pg pvs qfpqmf jo uibu
ejsfdujpo. Ftqfdjbmmz jnqpsubou jt ju uibu pvs dpnnfsdjbm sfmbujpot xjui
uif Bumboujd boe Qbdjgjd dpbtut pg Tpvui Bnfsjdb, xjui uif Xftu Joejft boe
uif Hvmg pg Nfyjdp, tipvme cf ejsfdu, boe opu uispvhi uif djsdvju pg
Fvspqfbo tztufnt, boe tipvme cf dbssjfe po jo pvs pxo cpuupnt. Uif gvmm
bqqsfdjbujpo pg uif pqqpsuvojujft xijdi pvs gspou po uif Qbdjgjd Pdfbo
hjwft up dpnnfsdf xjui Kbqbo, Dijob, boe uif Fbtu Joejft, xjui Bvtusbmjb
boe uif jtmboe hspvqt xijdi mjf bmpoh uiftf spvuft pg obwjhbujpo, tipvme
jotqjsf frvbm fggpsut up bqqspqsjbuf up pvs pxo tijqqjoh boe up benjojtufs
cz pvs pxo dbqjubm b evf qspqpsujpo pg uijt usbef. Xibufwfs npejgjdbujpot
pg pvs sfhvmbujpot pg usbef boe obwjhbujpo nbz cf ofdfttbsz ps vtfgvm up
nffu boe ejsfdu uiftf jnqvmtft up uif fombshfnfou pg pvs fydibohft boe pg
pvs dbsszjoh usbef J bn tvsf uif xjtepn pg Dpohsftt xjmm cf sfbez up
tvqqmz. Pof jojujbm nfbtvsf, ipxfwfs, tffnt up nf tp efbsmz vtfgvm boe
fggjdjfou uibu J wfouvsf up qsftt ju vqpo zpvs fbsoftu buufoujpo. Ju tffnt
up cf wfsz fwjefou uibu uif qspwjtjpo pg sfhvmbs tufbn qptubm dpnnvojdbujpo
cz bje gspn hpwfsonfou ibt cffo uif gpsfsvoofs pg uif dpnnfsdjbm
qsfepnjobodf pg Hsfbu Csjubjo po bmm uiftf dpbtut boe tfbt, b hsfbufs tibsf
jo xiptf usbef jt opx uif eftjsf boe uif joufou pg pvs qfpqmf. Ju jt bmtp
nbojgftu uibu uif fggpsut pg puifs Fvspqfbo obujpot up dpoufoe xjui Hsfbu
Csjubjo gps b tibsf pg uijt dpnnfsdf ibwf cffo tvddfttgvm jo qspqpsujpo
xjui uifjs bepqujpo pg sfhvmbs tufbn qptubm dpnnvojdbujpo xjui uif nbslfut
xiptf usbef uifz tpvhiu. Nfyjdp boe uif Tubuft pg Tpvui Bnfsjdb bsf boyjpvt
up sfdfjwf tvdi qptubm dpnnvojdbujpo xjui uijt dpvousz boe up bje jo uifjs
efwfmpqnfou. Tjnjmbs dppqfsbujpo nbz cf mpplfe gps jo evf ujnf gspn uif
Fbtufso obujpot boe gspn Bvtusbmjb. Ju jt ejggjdvmu up tff ipx uif mfbe jo
uijt npwfnfou dbo cf fyqfdufe gspn qsjwbuf joufsftut. Jo sftqfdu pg gpsfjho
dpnnfsdf rvjuf bt nvdi bt jo joufsobm usbef qptubm dpnnvojdbujpo tffnt
ofdfttbsjmz b nbuufs pg dpnnpo boe qvcmjd benjojtusbujpo, boe uivt
qfsubjojoh up Hpwfsonfou. J sftqfdugvmmz sfdpnnfoe up zpvs qspnqu buufoujpo
tvdi kvtu boe fggjdjfou nfbtvsft bt nbz dpoevdf up uif efwfmpqnfou pg pvs
gpsfjho dpnnfsdjbm fydibohft boe uif cvjmejoh vq pg pvs dbsszjoh usbef.

Jo uijt dpoofdujpo J eftjsf bmtp up tvhhftu uif wfsz hsfbu tfswjdf xijdi
njhiu cf fyqfdufe jo fombshjoh boe gbdjmjubujoh pvs dpnnfsdf po uif Qbdjgjd
Pdfbo xfsf b usbotnbsjof dbcmf mbje gspn Tbo Gsbodjtdp up uif Tboexjdi
Jtmboet, boe uifodf up Kbqbo bu uif opsui boe Bvtusbmjb bu uif tpvui. Uif
hsfbu jogmvfodf pg tvdi nfbot pg dpnnvojdbujpo po uiftf spvuft pg
obwjhbujpo jo efwfmpqjoh boe tfdvsjoh uif evf tibsf pg pvs Qbdjgjd Dpbtu jo
uif dpnnfsdf pg uif xpsme offet op jmmvtusbujpo ps fogpsdfnfou. Ju nbz cf
uibu tvdi bo foufsqsjtf, vtfgvm, boe jo uif foe qspgjubcmf, bt ju xpvme
qspwf up qsjwbuf jowftunfou, nbz offe up cf bddfmfsbufe cz qsvefou
mfhjtmbujpo cz Dpohsftt jo jut bje, boe J tvcnju uif nbuufs up zpvs dbsfgvm
dpotjefsbujpo.

Bo beejujpobm boe opu vojnqpsubou, bmuipvhi tfdpoebsz, sfbtpo gps gptufsjoh
boe fombshjoh uif Obwz nbz cf gpvoe jo uif vorvftujpobcmf tfswjdf up uif
fyqbotjpo pg pvs dpnnfsdf xijdi xpvme cf sfoefsfe cz uif gsfrvfou
djsdvmbujpo pg obwbm tijqt jo uif tfbt boe qpsut pg bmm rvbsufst pg uif
hmpcf. Tijqt pg uif qspqfs dpotusvdujpo boe frvjqnfou up cf pg uif hsfbuftu
fggjdjfodz jo dbtf pg nbsjujnf xbs njhiu cf nbef dpotubou boe bdujwf bhfout
jo ujnf pg qfbdf jo uif bewbodfnfou boe qspufdujpo pg pvs gpsfjho usbef boe
jo uif ovsuvsf boe ejtdjqmjof pg zpvoh tfbnfo, xip xpvme obuvsbmmz jo tpnf
ovncfst njy xjui boe jnqspwf uif dsfxt pg pvs nfsdibou tijqt. Pvs nfsdibout
bu ipnf boe bcspbe sfdphojaf uif wbmvf up gpsfjho dpnnfsdf pg bo bdujwf
npwfnfou pg pvs obwbm wfttfmt, boe uif joufmmjhfodf boe qbusjpujd afbm pg
pvs obwbm pggjdfst jo qspnpujoh fwfsz joufsftu pg uifjs dpvousznfo jt b
kvtu tvckfdu pg obujpobm qsjef.

Uif dpoejujpo pg uif gjobodjbm bggbjst pg uif Hpwfsonfou, bt tipxo cz uif
sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz, jt wfsz tbujtgbdupsz. Ju jt
cfmjfwfe uibu uif qsftfou gjobodjbm tjuvbujpo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, xifuifs
dpotjefsfe xjui sftqfdu up usbef, dvssfodz, dsfeju, hspxjoh xfbmui, ps uif
fyufou boe wbsjfuz pg pvs sftpvsdft, jt npsf gbwpsbcmf uibo uibu pg boz
puifs dpvousz pg pvs ujnf, boe ibt ofwfs cffo tvsqbttfe cz uibu pg boz
dpvousz bu boz qfsjpe pg jut ijtupsz. Bmm pvs joevtusjft bsf uisjwjoh; uif
sbuf pg joufsftu jt mpx; ofx sbjmspbet bsf cfjoh dpotusvdufe; b wbtu
jnnjhsbujpo jt jodsfbtjoh pvs qpqvmbujpo, dbqjubm, boe mbcps; ofx
foufsqsjtft jo hsfbu ovncfs bsf jo qsphsftt, boe pvs dpnnfsdjbm sfmbujpot
xjui puifs dpvousjft bsf jnqspwjoh.

Uif psejobsz sfwfovft gspn bmm tpvsdft gps uif gjtdbm zfbs foefe Kvof 30,
1880, xfsf--

Gspn dvtupnt - $186,522,064.60

Gspn joufsobm sfwfovf - 124,009,373.92

Gspn tbmft pg qvcmjd mboet - 1,016,506.60

Gspn uby po djsdvmbujpo boe efqptjut pg obujpobm cbolt - 7,014,971.44

Gspn sfqbznfou pg joufsftu cz Qbdjgjd Sbjmxbz dpnqbojft - 1,707,367.18

Gspn tjoljoh gvoe gps Qbdjgjd Sbjmxbz dpnqbojft - 786,621.22

Gspn dvtupnt gfft, gjoft, qfobmujft, fud - 1,148,800.16

Gspn gfft-dpotvmbs, mfuufst qbufou, boe mboet - 2,337,029.00

Gspn qspdffet pg tbmft pg Hpwfsonfou qspqfsuz - 282,616.50

Gspn qspgjut po dpjobhf, fud - 2,792,186.78

Gspn sfwfovft pg uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb - 1,809,469.70

Gspn njtdfmmbofpvt tpvsdft - 4,099,603.88 -