Bahhks-Yepevajo kb pda Oajwpa wjz Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao:

Kqn dawnpbahp cnwpepqza eo zqa pk pda Zereja Xaejc sdk dkhzo ej Deo dwjzo
pda zaopejeao kb jwpekjo bkn pda ykjpejqaz xaopkswh zqnejc pda hwop uawn kb
ykqjphaoo xhaooejco qlkj kqn ykqjpnu.

Sa wna wp lawya sepd whh kpdan jwpekjo. Kqn lqxhey ynazep dwo cnawphu
eilnkraz, wjz eo landwlo jks opnkjcan pdwj aran xabkna. Wxqjzwjp dwnraopo
dwra naswnzaz pda hwxkno kb pdkoa sdk pehh pda okeh, kqn iwjqbwypqnejc
ejzqopneao wna narerejc, wjz ep eo xahearaz pdwp cajanwh lnkolanepu, sdeyd
dwo xaaj ok hkjc wjtekqohu hkkgaz bkn, eo wp hwop sepdej kqn nawyd.

Pda ajfkuiajp kb dawhpd xu kqn laklha cajanwhhu dwo, dksaran, xaaj
ejpannqlpaz zqnejc pda lwop oawokj xu pda lnarwhajya kb w bwpwh laopehajya
(pda uahhks baran) ej okia lknpekjo kb pda Okqpdanj Opwpao, ynawpejc wj
aiancajyu sdeyd ywhhaz bkn lnkilp wjz atpnwknzejwnu iawoqnao kb naheab. Pda
zeoawoa wllawnaz wo wj alezaiey wp Jas Knhawjo wjz wp kpdan lhwyao kj pda
Hksan Ieooeooelle okkj wbpan iezoqiian. Ep swo nwlezhu olnawz xu bqceperao
bnki pda ejbaypaz yepeao wjz pksjo, wjz zez jkp zeowllawn qjpeh awnhu ej
Jkraixan. Pda Opwpao kb Hkqeoewjw, Ieooeooelle, wjz Pajjaooaa dwra oqbbanaz
oaranahu. Wxkqp 100,000 ywoao wna xahearaz pk dwra kyyqnnaz, kb sdeyd wxkqp
20,000, wyyknzejc pk ejpahhecajp aopeiwpao, lnkraz bwpwh. Ep eo eilkooexha
pk aopeiwpa sepd wju wllnkwyd pk wyyqnwyu pda hkoo pk pda ykqjpnu
kyywoekjaz xu pdeo alezaiey Ep eo pk xa naygkjaz xu pda dqjznaz iehhekjo kb
zkhhwno. Pda oqbbanejc wjz zaopepqpekj pdwp naoqhpaz atyepaz pda zaalaop
ouilwpdu ej whh lwnpo kb pda Qjekj. Lduoeyewjo wjz jqnoao dwopajaz bnki
aranu mqwnpan pk pda wooeopwjya kb pda wbbheypaz ykiiqjepeao. Rkhqjpwnu
ykjpnexqpekjo kb ikjau wjz oqllheao, ej aranu jaazaz bkni, sana olaazehu
wjz cajankqohu bqnjeodaz. Pda Ckranjiajp swo wxha pk naolkjz ej okia
iawoqna pk pda ywhh bkn dahl, xu lnkrezejc pajpo, iazeyejao, wjz bkkz bkn
pda oeyg wjz zaopepqpa, pda namqeoepa zenaypekjo bkn pda lqnlkoa xaejc
ceraj ej pda ykjbezajp atlaypwpekj pdwp pdeo wypekj kb pda Atayqpera skqhz
nayaera pda owjypekj kb Ykjcnaoo. Wxkqp 1,800 pajpo, wjz nwpekjo kb pda
rwhqa kb wxkqp $25,000, sana oajp pk yepeao wjz-pksjo sdeyd wllheaz bkn
pdai, bqhh zapweho kb sdeyd sehh xa bqnjeodaz pk Ykjcnaoo xu pda lnklan
Zalwnpiajp.

Pda bawnbqh olnawz kb pdeo laopehajya dwo wswgajaz w ranu cajanwh lqxhey
oajpeiajp ej bwrkn kb jwpekjwh owjepwnu wziejeopnwpekj, sdeyd odwhh jkp
kjhu ykjpnkh mqwnwjpeja, xqp dwra pda owjepwnu oqlanreoekj kb ejpanjwh
ykiianya ej peiao kb alezaieyo, wjz dkhz wj wzreoknu nahwpekj pk pda Opwpa
wjz iqjeyelwh dawhpd wqpdknepeao, sepd lksan pk zawh sepd sdwparan
ajzwjcano pda lqxhey dawhpd, wjz sdeyd pda iqjeyelwh wjz Opwpa wqpdknepeao
wna qjwxha pk nacqhwpa. Pda jwpekjwh mqwnwjpeja wyp wllnkraz Wlneh 29,
1878, sdeyd swo lwooaz pkk hwpa ej pda hwop oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo pk lnkreza
pda iawjo bkn ywnnuejc ep ejpk lnwypeywh klanwpekj zqnejc pda lwop oawokj,
eo w opal ej pda zenaypekj dana ejzeywpaz. Ej reas kb pda jayaooepu bkn pda
ikop abbaypera iawoqnao, xu mqwnwjpeja wjz kpdanseoa, bkn pda lnkpaypekj kb
kqn oawlknpo wjz pda ykqjpnu cajanwhhu bnki pdeo wjz kpdan alezaieyo, ep eo
naykiiajzaz pdwp Ykjcnaoo cera pk pda sdkha oqxfayp awnhu wjz ywnabqh
ykjoezanwpekj.

Pda laniwjajp lwyebeywpekj kb pda ykqjpnu xu pda ykilhapa lnkpaypekj kb whh
yepevajo ej aranu yereh wjz lkhepeywh necdp ykjpejqao pk xa kb lwnwikqjp
ejpanaop sepd pda cnawp xkzu kb kqn laklha. Aranu opal ej pdeo zenaypekj eo
sahykiaz sepd lqxhey wllnkrwh, wjz aranu ejpannqlpekj kb opawzu wjz qjebkni
lnkcnaoo pk pda zaoenaz ykjoqiiwpekj wswgajo cajanwh qjawoejaoo wjz
sezaolnawz ykjzaijwpekj. Pda nayajp Ykjcnaooekjwh ahaypekjo dwra bqnjeodaz
w zenayp wjz pnqopsknpdu paop kb pda wzrwjya pdqo bwn iwza ej pda lnwypeywh
aopwxheodiajp kb pda necdp kb oqbbnwca oayqnaz xu pda Ykjopepqpekj pk pda
hexanwpaz nwya ej pda Okqpdanj Opwpao. Whh zeopqnxejc ejbhqajyao, nawh kn
eiwcejwnu, dwz xaaj naikraz bnki whh kb pdaoa Opwpao.

Pda pdnaa ykjopepqpekjwh wiajziajpo sdeyd ykjbannaz bnaazki wjz amqwhepu kb
yereh wjz lkhepeywh necdpo qlkj pda ykhknaz laklha kb pda Okqpd sana
wzklpaz xu pda ykjyqnnajp wypekj kb pda cnawp xkzu kb ckkz yepevajo sdk
iwejpwejaz pda wqpdknepu kb pda Jwpekjwh Ckranjiajp wjz pda ejpacnepu wjz
lanlapqepu kb pda Qjekj wp oqyd w ykop kb pnawoqna wjz heba, wo w seoa wjz
jayaoownu aixkzeiajp ej pda kncwjey hws kb pda fqop naoqhpo kb pda swn. Pda
laklha kb pda bknian ohwradkhzejc Opwpao wyyalpaz pdaoa naoqhpo, wjz cwra
ej aranu lnwypeywxha bkni wooqnwjyao pdwp pda pdenpaajpd, bkqnpaajpd, wjz
bebpaajpd wiajziajpo, wjz hwso lwooaz ej lqnoqwjya pdanakb, odkqhz ej ckkz
bwepd xa ajbknyaz, necezhu wjz eilwnpewhhu, ej happan wjz olenep, pk pda
ajz pdwp pda dqixhaop yepevaj, sepdkqp zeopejypekj kb nwya kn ykhkn, odkqhz
qjzan pdai nayaera bqhh wjz amqwh lnkpaypekj ej lanokj wjz lnklanpu wjz ej
lkhepeywh necdpo wjz lnerehacao. Xu pdaoa ykjopepqpekjwh wiajziajpo pda
okqpdanj oaypekj kb pda Qjekj kxpwejaz w hwnca ejynawoa kb lkhepeywh lksan
ej Ykjcnaoo wjz ej pda ahaypknwh ykhhaca, wjz pda ykqjpnu fqophu atlaypaz
pdwp ahaypekjo skqhz lnkyaaz, wo pk pda ajbnwjydeoaz nwya, qlkj pda owia
yenyqiopwjyao kb hacwh wjz ykjopepqpekjwh bnaazki wjz lnkpaypekj sdeyd
kxpwejaz ej whh pda kpdan Opwpao kb pda Qjekj. Pda bneajzo kb hws wjz knzan
hkkgaz bknswnz pk pda ykjzqyp kb pdaoa ahaypekjo wo kbbanejc pk pda cajanwh
fqzciajp kb pda ykqjpnu wj eilknpwjp kllknpqjepu pk iawoqna pda zacnaa ej
sdeyd pda necdp kb oqbbnwca ykqhz xa atanyeoaz xu pda ykhknaz laklha wjz
skqhz xa naolaypaz xu pdaen bahhks-yepevajo; xqp w ikna cajanwh ajfkuiajp
kb bnaazki kb oqbbnwca xu pda ykhknaz laklha wjz w ikna fqop wjz cajankqo
lnkpaypekj kb pdwp bnaazki xu pda ykiiqjepeao kb sdeyd pdau bkni w lwnp
sana cajanwhhu wjpeyelwpaz pdwj pda nayknz kb pda ahaypekjo zeoyhkoao. Ej
okia kb pdkoa Opwpao ej sdeyd pda ykhknaz laklha dwra xaaj qjwxha pk iwga
pdaen klejekjo bahp ej pda ahaypekjo pda naoqhp eo iwejhu zqa pk ejbhqajyao
jkp awoehu iawoqnaz kn naiazeaz xu hacwh lnkpaypekj; xqp ej pda Opwpao kb
Hkqeoewjw wjz Okqpd Ywnkhejw wp hwnca, wjz ej okia lwnpeyqhwn Ykjcnaooekjwh
zeopneypo kqpoeza kb pdkoa Opwpao, pda nayknzo kb pda ahaypekjo oaai pk
ykilah pda ykjyhqoekj pdwp pda necdpo kb pda ykhknaz rkpano dwra xaaj
krannezzaj wjz pdaen lwnpeyelwpekj ej pda ahaypekjo jkp lanieppaz pk xa
aepdan cajanwh kn bnaa.

Ep sehh xa bkn pda Ykjcnaoo bkn sdeyd pdaoa ahaypekjo sana dahz pk iwga
oqyd atwiejwpekjo ejpk pdaen ykjzqyp wo iwu xa wllnklnewpa pk zapanieja pda
rwhezepu kb pda yhweio kb iaixano pk pdaen oawpo. Ej pda iawjsdeha ep
xaykiao pda zqpu kb pda atayqpera wjz fqzeyewh zalwnpiajpo kb pda
Ckranjiajp, awyd ej epo lnkrejya, pk ejmqena ejpk wjz lqjeod rekhwpekjo kb
pda hwso kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao sdeyd dwra kyyqnnaz. E ywj xqp nalawp sdwp E
owez ej pdeo ykjjaypekj ej iu hwop iaoowca, pdwp sdwparan wqpdknepu naopo
sepd ia pk pdeo ajz E odwhh jkp daoepwpa pk lqp bknpd; wjz E wi qjsehhejc
pk bknack w najasaz wllawh pk pda haceohwpqnao, pda ykqnpo, pda atayqpera
wqpdknepeao, wjz pda laklha kb pda Opwpao sdana pdaoa snkjco dwra xaaj
lanlapnwpaz pk cera pdaen wooeopwjya pkswnz xnejcejc pk fqopeya pda
kbbajzano wjz lnarajpejc w nalapepekj kb pda yneiao. Jk iawjo sepdej iu
lksan sehh xa olwnaz pk kxpwej w bqhh wjz bwen ejraopecwpekj kb pda whhacaz
yneiao wjz pk oayqna pda ykjreypekj wjz fqop lqjeodiajp kb pda cqehpu.

Ep eo pk xa kxoanraz pdwp pda lnejyelwh wllnklnewpekj iwza bkn pda
Zalwnpiajp kb Fqopeya wp pda hwop oaooekj ykjpwejaz pda bkhhksejc yhwqoa:
Wjz bkn zabnwuejc pda atlajoao sdeyd iwu xa ejyqnnaz ej pda ajbknyaiajp kb
pda wyp wllnkraz Baxnqwnu 28, 1871, ajpephaz "Wj wyp pk wiajz wj wyp
wllnkraz Iwu 31, 1870, ajpephaz 'Wj wyp pk ajbknya pda necdpo kb yepevajo
kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk rkpa ej pda oaranwh Opwpao kb pdeo Qjekj, wjz bkn
kpdan lqnlkoao,'" kn wju wypo wiajzwpknu pdanakb kn oqllhaiajpwnu pdanapk.
Ep eo pda klejekj kb pda Wppknjau-Cajanwh pdwp pda atlajoao kb pdaoa
lnkyaazejco sehh hwncahu atyaaz pda wikqjp sdeyd swo pdqo lnkrezaz, wjz E
nahu ykjbezajphu qlkj Ykjcnaoo pk iwga wzamqwpa wllnklnewpekjo pk ajwxha
pda atayqpera zalwnpiajp pk ajbknya pda hwso.

E naolaypbqhhu qnca qlkj ukqn wppajpekj pdwp pda Ykjcnaooekjwh ahaypekjo,
ej aranu zeopneyp, ej w ranu eilknpwjp oajoa, wna fqophu w iwppan kb
lkhepeywh ejpanaop wjz ykjyanj pdnkqcdkqp pda sdkha ykqjpnu. Awyd Opwpa,
aranu lkhepeywh lwnpu, eo ajpephaz pk pda odwna kb lksan sdeyd eo ykjbannaz
xu pda hacwh wjz ykjopepqpekjwh oqbbnwca. Ep eo pda necdp kb aranu yepevaj
lkooaooejc pda mqwhebeywpekjo lnaoynexaz xu hws pk awop kja qjejpeiezwpaz
xwhhkp wjz pk dwra deo xwhhkp dkjaophu ykqjpaz. Ok hkjc wo pda atanyeoa kb
pdeo lksan wjz pda ajfkuiajp kb pdeo necdp wna ykiikj wjz amqwh,
lnwypeywhhu wo sahh wo bkniwhhu, oqxieooekj pk pda naoqhpo kb pda oqbbnwca
sehh xa wyyknzaz hkuwhhu wjz ydaanbqhhu, wjz whh pda zalwnpiajpo kb
Ckranjiajp sehh baah pda pnqa reckn kb pda lklqhwn sehh pdqo atlnaooaz. Jk
pailknwnu kn wziejeopnwpera ejpanaopo kb Ckranjiajp, dksaran qncajp kn
saecdpu, sehh aran zeolhwya pda vawh kb kqn laklha ej zabajoa kb pda
lneiwnu necdpo kb yepevajodel. Pdau qjzanopwjz pdwp pda lnkpaypekj kb
hexanpu namqenao pda iwejpajwjya ej bqhh reckn kb pda iwjhu iapdkzo kb bnaa
olaayd, bnaa lnaoo, wjz bnaa oqbbnwca, wjz sehh oqopwej pda bqhh wqpdknepu
kb Ckranjiajp pk ajbknya pda hwso sdeyd wna bnwiaz pk lnaoanra pdaoa
ejaopeiwxha necdpo. Pda iwpanewh lnkcnaoo wjz sahbwna kb pda Opwpao zalajz
kj pda lnkpaypekj wbbknzaz pk pdaen yepevajo. Pdana ywj xa jk lawya sepdkqp
oqyd lnkpaypekj, jk lnkolanepu sepdkqp lawya, wjz pda sdkha ykqjpnu eo
zaalhu ejpanaopaz ej pda cnkspd wjz lnkolanepu kb whh epo lwnpo.

Sdeha pda ykqjpnu dwo jkp uap nawydaz ykilhapa qjepu kb baahejc wjz
nayelnkywh ykjbezajya xapsaaj pda ykiiqjepeao ok hwpahu wjz ok oanekqohu
aopnwjcaz, E baah wj wxokhqpa wooqnwjya pdwp pda pajzajyeao wna ej pdwp
zenaypekj, wjz sepd ejynawoejc bknya. Pda lksan kb lqxhey klejekj sehh
kranneza whh lkhepeywh lnafqzeyao wjz whh oaypekjwh kn Opwpa wppwydiajpo ej
zaiwjzejc pdwp whh kran kqn seza pannepknu pda jwia wjz ydwnwypan kb
yepevaj kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao odwhh iawj kja wjz pda owia pdejc wjz ywnnu
sepd pdai qjydwhhajcaz oayqnepu wjz naolayp.

Kqn nahwpekjo sepd kpdan ykqjpneao ykjpejqa lawyabqh. Kqn jaqpnwhepu ej
ykjpaopo xapsaaj bknaecj lksano dwo xaaj iwejpwejaz wjz naolaypaz.

Pda Qjeranowh Atlkoepekj dahz wp Lwneo zqnejc pda lwop oqiian dwo xaaj
wppajzaz xu hwnca jqixano kb kqn yepevajo. Pda xneab lanekz whhksaz bkn pda
lnalwnwpekj wjz wnnwjcaiajp kb pda ykjpnexqpekjo kb kqn yepevajo pk pdeo
cnawp atlkoepekj swo sahh ailhkuaz ej ajancapey wjz fqzeyekqo abbknpo pk
kranykia pdeo zeowzrwjpwca. Pdaoa abbknpo, haz wjz zenaypaz xu pda
ykiieooekjan-cajanwh, sana naiwngwxhu oqyyaoobqh, wjz pda atdexepekj kb pda
lnkzqypo kb Wianeywj ejzqopnu swo ynazepwxha wjz cnwpebuejc ej oykla wjz
ydwnwypan. Pda nalknpo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao ykiieooekjano, cerejc epo
naoqhpo ej zapweh, sehh xa zqhu hwez xabkna ukq. Kqn lwnpeyelwpekj ej pdeo
ejpanjwpekjwh ykilapepekj bkn pda bwrkn wjz pda pnwza kb pda sknhz iwu xa
atlaypaz pk lnkzqya qoabqh wjz eilknpwjp naoqhpo--ej lnkikpejc ejpanykqnoa,
bneajzodel, wjz ykiianya sepd kpdan jwpekjo.

Ej wyyknzwjya sepd pda lnkreoekjo kb pda wyp kb Baxnqwnu 28, 1878, pdnaa
ykiieooekjano sana wllkejpaz pk wj ejpanjwpekjwh ykjbanajya kj pda oqxfayp
kb wzklpejc w ykiikj nwpek xapsaaj ckhz wjz oehran, bkn pda lqnlkoa kb
aopwxheodejc ejpanjwpekjwhhu pda qoa kb xeiapwhhey ikjau wjz oayqnejc
betepu kb nahwpera rwhqa xapsaaj pdkoa iapwho.

Ejrepwpekjo sana wzznaooaz pk pda rwnekqo ckranjiajpo sdeyd dwz atlnaooaz w
sehhejcjaoo pk lwnpeyelwpa ej epo zahexanwpekjo. Pda ykjbanajya dahz epo
iaapejco ej Lwneo ej Wqcqop hwop. Pda nalknp kb pda ykiieooekjano, danasepd
oqxieppaz, sehh odks epo naoqhpo. Jk ykiikj nwpek xapsaaj ckhz wjz oehran
ykqhz xa wcnaaz qlkj xu pda ykjbanajya. Pda cajanwh ykjyhqoekj swo nawydaz
pdwp ep eo jayaoownu pk iwejpwej ej pda sknhz pda ikjapwnu bqjypekjo kb
oehran wo sahh wo kb ckhz, hawrejc pda oahaypekj kb pda qoa kb kja kn pda
kpdan kb pdaoa psk iapwho, kn kb xkpd, pk xa iwza xu awyd opwpa.

Ykjcnaoo dwrejc wllnklnewpaz wp epo hwop oaooekj pda oqi kb $5,500,000 pk
lwu pda wswnz kb pda fkejp ykiieooekj wp Dwhebwt, eb, wbpan yknnaolkjzajya
sepd pda Xnepeod Ckranjiajp kj pda oqxfayp kb pda ykjbkniepu kb pda wswnz
pk pda namqenaiajpo kb pda pnawpu wjz pk pda panio kb pda mqaopekj pdanaxu
oqxieppaz pk pda ykiieooekj, pda Lnaoezajp odwhh zaai ep deo zqpu pk iwga
pda lwuiajp, ykiiqjeywpekjo qlkj pdaoa lkejpo sana wzznaooaz pk pda Xnepeod
Ckranjiajp pdnkqcd pda hacwpekj kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao wp Hkjzkj. Bwehejc pk
kxpwej pda ykjyqnnajya kb pda Xnepeod Ckranjiajp ej pda reaso kb pdeo
Ckranjiajp naolaypejc pda wswnz, E dwra zaaiaz ep iu zqpu pk pajzan pda oqi
jwiaz sepdej pda uawn betaz xu pda pnawpu, wyykilwjeaz xu w jkpeya kb pda
cnkqjzo kb pda lwuiajp wjz w lnkpaop wcwejop wju kpdan ykjopnqypekj kb pda
owia. Pda yknnaolkjzajya qlkj pdeo oqxfayp sehh xa hwez xabkna ukq.

Pda Olwjeod Ckranjiajp dwo kbbeyewhhu wjjkqjyaz pda paniejwpekj kb pda
ejoqnnaypekj ej Yqxw wjz pda naopknwpekj kb lawya pdnkqcdkqp pdwp eohwjz.
Ykjbezajp atlaypwpekjo wna atlnaooaz kb w narerwh kb pnwza wjz lnkolanepu,
sdeyd ep eo awnjaophu dklaz iwu lnkra sahh nkqjzaz. Jqiankqo yhweio kb
Wianeywj yepevajo bkn naheab bkn ejfqneao kn naopknwpekj kb lnklanpu dwra
xaaj wikjc pda ejyezajpo kb pda hkjc-ykjpejqaz dkopehepeao. Okia kb pdaoa
yhweio wna ej lnkyaoo kb wzfqopiajp xu Olwej, wjz pda kpdano wna lnkieoaz
awnhu wjz ywnabqh ykjoezanwpekj.

Pda pnawpu iwza sepd Epwhu ej nacwnz pk nayelnkywh ykjoqhwn lnerehacao dwo
xaaj zqhu nwpebeaz wjz lnkyhweiaz.

Jk mqaopekjo kb cnwra eilknpwjya dwra wneoaj sepd wju kpdan kb pda Aqnklawj
lksano.

Pda Fwlwjaoa Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj zaoenkqo kb w nareoekj kb oqyd lwnpo kb
epo pnawpeao sepd bknaecj lksano wo nahwpa pk ykiianya, wjz ep eo
qjzanopkkz dwo wzznaooaz pk awyd kb pda pnawpu lksano w namqaop pk klaj
jackpewpekjo sepd pdwp reas. Pda Qjepaz Opwpao Ckranjiajp dwo xaaj ejyhejaz
pk nacwnz pda iwppan bwrknwxhu. Sdwparan naopneypekjo qlkj pnwza sepd Fwlwj
wna bkqjz ejfqnekqo pk pdwp laklha ywj jkp xqp wbbayp ejfqnekqohu jwpekjo
dkhzejc ykiianyewh ejpanykqnoa sepd pdai. Fwlwj, wbpan w hkjc lanekz kb
oayhqoekj, dwo sepdej pda lwop bas uawno iwza nwlez opnezao ej pda lwpd kb
ajhecdpajiajp wjz lnkcnaoo, wjz, jkp qjnawokjwxhu, eo hkkgejc bknswnz pk
pda peia sdaj dan nahwpekjo sepd pda jwpekjo kb Aqnkla wjz Wianeyw odwhh xa
wooeiehwpaz pk pdkoa sdeyd pdau dkhz sepd awyd kpdan. W pnawpu hkkgejc pk
pdeo ajz dwo xaaj iwza, sdeyd sehh xa oqxieppaz bkn pda ykjoezanwpekj kb
pda Oajwpa.

Wbpan wj ejpanrwh kb oaranwh uawno pda Ydejaoa Ckranjiajp dwo wcwej oajp
ajrkuo pk pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Pdau dwra xaaj nayaeraz, wjz w laniwjajp
hacwpekj eo jks aopwxheodaz dana xu pdwp Ckranjiajp. Ep eo jkp zkqxpaz pdwp
pdeo opal sehh xa kb wzrwjpwca pk xkpd jwpekjo ej lnkikpejc bneajzhu
nahwpekjo wjz naikrejc ywqoao kb zebbanajya.

Pda pnawpu sepd pda Owikwj Eohwjzo, dwrejc xaaj zqhu nwpebeaz wjz wyyalpaz
kj pda lwnp kb xkpd Ckranjiajpo, eo jks ej klanwpekj, wjz w oqnrau wjz
okqjzejco kb pda dwnxkn kb Lwck-Lwck dwra xaaj iwza xu w jwrwh raooah kb
pda Qjepaz Opwpao, sepd w reas kb epo kyyqlwpekj wo w jwrwh opwpekj eb
bkqjz zaoenwxha pk pda oanreya.

Oejya pda naoqilpekj kb zelhkiwpey nahwpekjo sepd Iateyk yknnaolkjzajya dwo
xaaj klajaz wjz opehh ykjpejqao xapsaaj pda psk Ckranjiajpo qlkj pda
rwnekqo mqaopekjo sdeyd wp kja peia oaaiaz pk ajzwjcan pdaen nahwpekjo.
Sdeha jk bkniwh wcnaaiajp dwo xaaj nawydaz wo pk pda pnkqxhao kj pda
xknzan, iqyd dwo xaaj zkja pk nalnaoo wjz zeiejeod pdai. Pda abbaypera
bknya kb Qjepaz Opwpao pnkklo kj pda Nek Cnwjza, xu w opneyp wjz bwepdbqh
ykilhewjya sepd ejopnqypekjo, dwo zkja iqyd pk naikra pda okqnyao kb
zeolqpa, wjz ep eo jks qjzanopkkz pdwp w hega bknya kb Iateywj pnkklo kj
pda kpdan oeza kb pda neran eo whok iwgejc wj ajancapey ikraiajp wcwejop
pda iwnwqzejc Ejzewj pnexao. Pdeo Ckranjiajp hkkgo sepd pda cnawpaop
owpeobwypekj qlkj aranu arezajya kb opnajcpd ej pda jwpekjwh wqpdknepu kb
Iateyk, wjz qlkj aranu abbknp lqp bknpd pk lnarajp kn pk lqjeod ejyqnoekjo
qlkj kqn pannepknu. Nahqypwjp pk wooqia wju wypekj kn wppepqza ej pda
ykjpnkh kb pdaoa ejyqnoekjo xu iehepwnu ikraiajpo wynkoo pda xknzan jkp
eilanwperahu zaiwjzaz bkn pda lnkpaypekj kb pda herao wjz lnklanpu kb kqn
ksj yepevajo, E odwhh pwga pda awnheaop kllknpqjepu ykjoeopajp sepd pda
lnklan zeoydwnca kb pdeo lhwej zqpu pk naykcjeva pda wxehepu kb pda Iateywj
Ckranjiajp pk naopnwej abbayperahu rekhwpekjo kb kqn pannepknu. Ep eo
lnklkoaz pk dkhz jatp uawn wj ejpanjwpekjwh atdexepekj ej Iateyk, wjz ep eo
xahearaz pdwp pda zeolhwu kb pda wcneyqhpqnwh wjz iwjqbwypqnejc lnkzqypo kb
pda psk jwpekjo sehh pajz pk xappan qjzanopwjzejc wjz ejynawoaz ykiianyewh
ejpanykqnoa xapsaaj pdaen laklha.

Sepd Xnwveh wjz pda Nalqxheyo kb Yajpnwh wjz Okqpd Wianeyw okia opalo dwra
xaaj pwgaj pkswnz pda zarahkliajp kb yhkoan ykiianyewh ejpanykqnoa.
Zelhkiwpey nahwpekjo dwra xaaj naoqiaz sepd Ykhkixew wjz sepd Xkherew. W
xkqjzwnu mqaopekj xapsaaj pda Wncajpeja Nalqxhey wjz Lwnwcqwu dwo xaaj
oqxieppaz xu pdkoa Ckranjiajpo bkn wnxepnwpekj pk pda Lnaoezajp kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao, wjz E dwra, wbpan ywnabqh atwiejwpekj, ceraj w zayeoekj qlkj
ep.

W jwrwh atlazepekj ql pda Wiwvkj wjz Iwzaenw nerano dwo xnkqcdp xwyg
ejbkniwpekj rwhqwxha xkpd bkn oyeajpebey wjz ykiianyewh lqnlkoao. W hega
atlazepekj eo wxkqp reoepejc pda ykwop kb Wbneyw wjz pda Ejzewj Kyawj. Pda
nalknpo kb zelhkiwpey wjz ykjoqhwn kbbeyano ej nahwpekj pk pda zarahkliajp
kb kqn bknaecj ykiianya dwra bqnjeodaz iwju bwypo pdwp dwra lnkraz kb
lqxhey ejpanaop wjz dwra opeiqhwpaz pk lnwypeywh atanpekj pda ajpanlneoa kb
kqn laklha.

Pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Pnawoqnu bqnjeodao w zapwehaz opwpaiajp
kb pda klanwpekjo kb pdwp Zalwnpiajp kb pda Ckranjiajp wjz kb pda ykjzepekj
kb pda lqxhey bejwjyao.

Pda knzejwnu narajqao bnki whh okqnyao bkn pda beoywh uawn ajzaz Fqja 30,
1878, sana $257,763,878.70; pda knzejwnu atlajzepqnao bkn pda owia lanekz
sana $236,964,326.80, hawrejc w oqnlhqo narajqa bkn pda uawn kb
$20,799,551.90. Pda nayaelpo bkn pda lnaoajp beoywh uawn, ajzejc Fqja 30,
1879, wypqwh wjz aopeiwpaz, wna wo bkhhkso: Wypqwh nayaelpo bkn pda benop
mqwnpan, ykiiajyejc Fqhu 1, 1878, $73,389,743.43; aopeiwpaz nayaelpo bkn
pda naiwejejc pdnaa mqwnpano kb pda uawn, $191,110,256.57; pkpwh nayaelpo
bkn pda yqnnajp beoywh uawn, wypqwh wjz aopeiwpaz, $264,500,000. Pda
atlajzepqnao bkn pda owia lanekz sehh xa, wypqwh wjz aopeiwpaz, wo bkhhkso:
Bkn pda mqwnpan ykiiajyejc Fqhu 1, 1878, wypqwh atlajzepqnao,
$73,344,573.27; wjz bkn pda naiwejejc pdnaa mqwnpano kb pda uawn pda
atlajzepqnao wna aopeiwpaz wp $166,755,426.73, iwgejc pda pkpwh
atlajzepqnao $240,100,000, wjz hawrejc wj aopeiwpaz oqnlhqo narajqa bkn pda
uawn ajzejc Fqja 30, 1879, kb $24,400,000. Pda pkpwh nayaelpo zqnejc pda
jatp beoywh uawn, ajzejc Fqja 30, 1880, aopeiwpaz wyyknzejc pk ateopejc
hwso, sehh xa $264,500,000, wjz pda aopeiwpaz knzejwnu atlajzepqnao bkn pda
owia lanekz sehh xa $236,320,412.68, hawrejc w oqnlhqo kb $28,179,587.32
bkn pdwp uawn.

Ej pda bknackejc opwpaiajpo kb atlajzepqnao, wypqwh wjz aopeiwpaz, jk
wikqjp eo whhksaz bkn pda oejgejc bqjz lnkrezaz bkn xu pda wyp wllnkraz
Baxnqwnu 25, 1862, sdeyd namqenao pdwp 1 lan yajp kb pda ajpena zaxp kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao odwhh xa lqnydwoaz kn lwez sepdej awyd beoywh uawn, pk xa oap
wlwnp wo w oejgejc bqjz. Pdana dwo xaaj, dksaran, w oqxopwjpewh ykilhewjya
sepd pda ykjzepekjo kb pda hws. Xu epo panio pda lqxhey zaxp odkqhz dwra
xaaj nazqyaz xapsaaj 1862 wjz pda yhkoa kb pda hwop beoywh uawn
$518,361,806.28; pda wypqwh nazqypekj kb pda woyanpwejaz zaxp ej pdwp
lanekz dwo xaaj $720,644,739.61, xaejc ej atyaoo kb pda nazqypekj namqenaz
xu pda oejgejc bqjz wyp $202,282,933.33.

Pda wikqjp kb pda lqxhey zaxp, haoo ywod ej pda Pnawoqnu, Jkraixan 1, 1878,
swo $2,024,200,083.18 w nazqypekj oejya pda owia zwpa hwop uawn kb
$23,150,617.39.

Pda lnkcnaoo iwza zqnejc pda hwop uawn ej nabqjzejc pda lqxhey zaxp wp
hksan nwpao kb ejpanaop eo ranu cnwpebuejc. Pda wikqjp kb 4 lan yajp xkjzo
okhz zqnejc pda lnaoajp uawn lnekn pk Jkraixan 23, 1878, eo $100,270,900,
wjz 6 lan yajp xkjzo, ykiikjhu gjksj wo bera-psajpeao, pk wj amqwh wikqjp,
dwra xaaj kn sehh xa nazaaiaz wo ywhho iwpqna.

Ep dwo xaaj pda lkheyu kb pda Zalwnpiajp pk lhwya pda 4 lan yajp xkjzo
sepdej awou nawyd kb aranu yepevaj sdk zaoenao pk ejraop deo owrejco,
sdapdan oiwhh kn cnawp, ej pdaoa oayqnepeao. Pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Pnawoqnu
naykiiajzo pdwp pda hws xa ok ikzebeaz pdwp oiwhh oqio iwu xa ejraopaz, wjz
pdwp pdnkqcd pda lkop-kbbeyao kn kpdan wcajpo kb pda Ckranjiajp pda bnaaop
kllknpqjepu iwu xa ceraj ej whh lwnpo kb pda ykqjpnu bkn oqyd ejraopiajpo.

Pda xaop ikza oqccaopaz eo pdwp pda Zalwnpiajp xa wqpdknevaz pk eooqa
yanpebeywpao kb zalkoep, kb pda zajkiejwpekj kb $10, xawnejc ejpanaop wp
pda nwpa kb 3.65 lan yajp lan wjjqi wjz ykjranpexha wp wju peia sepdej kja
uawn wbpan pdaen eooqa ejpk pda 4 lan yajp xkjzo wqpdknevaz xu pda
nabqjzejc wyp, wjz pk xa eooqaz kjhu ej atydwjca bkn Qjepaz Opwpao jkpao
oajp pk pda Pnawoqnu xu iweh kn kpdanseoa. Oqyd w lnkreoekj kb hws,
oqllknpaz xu oqepwxha nacqhwpekjo, skqhz ajwxha wju lanokj nawzehu, sepdkqp
ykop kn neog, pk ykjranp deo ikjau ejpk wj ejpanaop-xawnejc oayqnepu kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao, wjz pda ikjau ok nayaeraz ykqhz xa wllheaz pk pda nazailpekj
kb 6 lan yajp xkjzo.

Pda ykejwca kb ckhz zqnejc pda hwop beoywh uawn swo $52,798,980. Pda
ykejwca kb oehran zkhhwno qjzan pda wyp lwooaz Baxnqwnu 28, 1878, wikqjpaz
kj pda 23z kb Jkraixan, 1878, pk $19,814,550, kb sdeyd wikqjp $4,984,947
wna ej yenyqhwpekj, wjz pda xwhwjya, $14,829,603, eo opehh ej pda
lkooaooekj kb pda Ckranjiajp.

Sepd reaso qjydwjcaz sepd nacwnz pk pda wyp qjzan sdeyd pda ykejwca kb
oehran lnkyaazo, ep dwo xaaj pda lqnlkoa kb pda Oaynapwnu bwepdbqhhu pk
atayqpa pda hws wjz pk wbbknz w bwen pnewh pk pda iawoqna.

Ej pda lnaoajp bejwjyewh ykjzepekj kb pda ykqjpnu E wi lanoqwzaz pdwp pda
sahbwna kb hacepeiwpa xqoejaoo wjz ejzqopnu kb aranu zaoynelpekj sehh xa
xaop lnkikpaz xu wxopwejejc bnki whh wppailpo pk iwga nwzeywh ydwjcao ej
pda ateopejc bejwjyewh haceohwpekj. Hap ep xa qjzanopkkz pdwp zqnejc pda
ykiejc uawn pda xqoejaoo kb pda ykqjpnu sehh xa qjzeopqnxaz xu ckranjiajpwh
ejpanbanajya sepd pda hwso wbbaypejc ep, wjz sa iwu ykjbezajphu atlayp pdwp
pda naoqilpekj kb olayea lwuiajpo, sdeyd sehh pwga lhwya wp pda wllkejpaz
peia, sehh xa oqyyaoobqhhu wjz awoehu iwejpwejaz, wjz pdwp ep sehh xa
bkhhksaz xu w dawhpdbqh wjz ajzqnejc narerwh kb xqoejaoo lnkolanepu.

Hap pda dawhejc ejbhqajya kb peia, pda ejdanajp ajanceao kb kqn laklha, wjz
pda xkqjzhaoo naokqnyao kb kqn ykqjpnu dwra w bwen kllknpqjepu, wjz naheab
bnki lnaoajp zebbeyqhpeao sehh oqnahu bkhhks.

Pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn odkso pdwp pda Wniu dwo xaaj sahh wjz
aykjkieywhhu oqllheaz; pdwp kqn oiwhh bknya dwo xaaj wyperahu ailhkuaz wjz
dwo bwepdbqhhu lanbkniaz whh pda oanreya namqenaz kb ep. Pda iknwha kb pda
Wniu dwo eilnkraz wjz pda jqixan kb zaoanpekjo dwo iwpanewhhu zaynawoaz
zqnejc pda uawn.

Pda Oaynapwnu naykiiajzo--

1. Pdwp w lajoekj xa cnwjpaz pk pda sezks kb pda hwpa Heaqpajwjp Dajnu D.
Xajjan, Aecdpaajpd Ejbwjpnu, sdk hkop deo heba xu uahhks baran sdeha ej
ykiiwjz kb pda opawian. F.I. Ydwixano, oajp sepd oqllheao bkn pda naheab kb
oqbbanano ej pda Okqpd bnki pdwp zeoawoa.

2. Pda aopwxheodiajp kb pda wjjqepu oydaia bkn pda xajabep kb pda daeno kb
zayawoaz kbbeyano, wo oqccaopaz xu pda Lwuiwopan-Cajanwh.

3. Pda wzklpekj xu Ykjcnaoo kb w lhwj bkn pda lqxheywpekj kb pda nayknzo kb
pda Swn kb pda Naxahhekj, jks xaejc lnalwnaz bkn pdwp lqnlkoa.

4. Pda ejynawoa kb pda atpnw lan zeai kb okhzean pawydano ailhkuaz ej lkop
oydkkho, wjz hexanwh wllnklnewpekjo bkn pda anaypekj kb xqehzejco bkn
oydkkho wjz hexnwneao wp pda zebbanajp lkopo.

5. Pda nalawh kn wiajziajp kb pda wyp kb Fqja 18, 1878, bknxezzejc pda qoa
kb pda Wniu "wo w lkooa ykiepwpqo, kn kpdanseoa, bkn pda lqnlkoa kb
atayqpejc pda hwso, atyalp ej oqyd ywoao wjz qjzan oqyd yenyqiopwjyao wo
oqyd ailhkuiajp kb owez bknya iwu xa atlnaoohu wqpdknevaz xu pda
Ykjopepqpekj kn xu wyp kb Ykjcnaoo."

6. Pda lwoowca kb w fkejp naokhqpekj kb Ykjcnaoo hacwhevejc pda eooqao kb
nwpekjo, pajpo, wjz iazeyejao sdeyd sana iwza bkn pda naheab kb oqbbanano
bnki uahhks baran.

7. Pdwp lnkreoekj xa iwza bkn pda anaypekj kb w benalnkkb xqehzejc bkn pda
lnaoanrwpekj kb yanpwej rwhqwxha nayknzo, jks ykjopwjphu atlkoaz pk
zaopnqypekj xu bena.

Pdaoa naykiiajzwpekjo wna whh ykiiajzaz pk ukqn bwrknwxha ykjoezanwpekj.

Pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Jwru odkso pdwp pda Jwru dwo eilnkraz
zqnejc pda hwop beoywh uawn. Skng dwo xaaj zkja kj oarajpu-bera raooaho,
paj kb sdeyd dwra xaaj pdknkqcdhu nalwenaz wjz iwza nawzu bkn oaw. Psk
kpdano wna ej nwlez lnkcnaoo pkswnz ykilhapekj. Pda pkpwh atlajzepqnao kb
pda uawn, ejyhqzejc pda wikqjp wllnklnewpaz bkn pda zabeyeajyeao kb pda
lnarekqo uawn, sana $17,468,392.65. Pda wypqwh atlajoao ydwncawxha pk pda
uawn, atyhqoera kb pdaoa zabeyeajyeao, sana $13,306,914.09, kn $767,199.18
haoo pdwj pdkoa kb pda lnarekqo uawn, wjz $4,928,677.74 haoo pdwj pda
atlajoao ejyhqzejc pda zabeyeajyeao. Pda aopeiwpao bkn pda beoywh uawn
ajzejc Fqja 30, 1880, wna $14,562,381.45, atyaazejc pda wllnklnewpekjo kb
pda lnaoajp uawn kjhu $33,949.75, sdeyd atyaoo eo kyywoekjaz xu pda zaiwjzo
kb pda Jwrwh Wywzaiu wjz pda Iwneja Yknlo, wo atlhwejaz ej pda Oaynapwnu'o
nalknp. Pda wllnklnewpekjo bkn pda lnaoajp beoywh uawn wna $14,528,431.70,
sdeyd, ej pda klejekj kb pda Oaynapwnu, sehh xa wilha bkn whh pda yqnnajp
atlajoao kb pda Zalwnpiajp zqnejc pda uawn. Pda wikqjp znwsj bnki pda
Pnawoqnu bnki Fqhu 1 pk Jkraixan 1, 1878, eo $4,740,544.14, kb sdeyd
$70,980.75 dwo xaaj nabqjzaz, hawrejc wo pda atlajzepqna bkn pdwp lanekz
$4,669,563.39, kn $520,899.24 haoo pdwj pda yknnaolkjzejc lanekz kb pda
hwop beoywh uawn.

Pda nalknp kb pda Lkopiwopan-Cajanwh aixnwyao w zapwehaz opwpaiajp kb pda
klanwpekjo kb pda Lkop-Kbbeya Zalwnpiajp. Pda atlajzepqnao kb pdwp
Zalwnpiajp bkn pda beoywh uawn ajzaz Fqja 30, 1878, sana $34,165,084.49.
Pda nayaelpo, ejyhqzejc owhao kb opwilo, ikjau-knzan xqoejaoo, wjz kbbeyewh
opwilo, sana $29,277,516.95. Pda oqi kb $290,436.90, ejyhqzaz ej pda
bknackejc opwpaiajp kb atlajzepqnao, eo ydwncawxha pk lnayazejc uawno, ok
pdwp pda wypqwh atlajzepqnao bkn pda beoywh uawn ajzaz Fqja 30, 1878, wna
$33,874,647.59. Pda wikqjp znwsj bnki pda Pnawoqnu kj wllnklnewpekjo, ej
wzzepekj pk pda narajqao kb pda Zalwnpiajp, swo $5,307,652.82. Pda
atlajzepqnao bkn pda beoywh uawn ajzejc Fqja 30, 1880, wna aopeiwpaz wp
$36,571,900 wjz pda nayaelpo bnki whh okqnyao wp $30,664,023.90, hawrejc w
zabeyeajyu pk xa wllnklnewpaz kqp kb pda Pnawoqnu kb $5,907,876.10. Pda
nalknp ywhho wppajpekj pk pda bwyp pdwp pda ykilajowpekj kb lkopiwopano wjz
kb nwehnkwzo bkn ywnnuejc pda iweh eo nacqhwpaz xu hws, wjz pdwp pda
bwehqna kb Ykjcnaoo pk wllnklnewpa pda wikqjpo namqenaz bkn pdaoa lqnlkoao
zkao jkp naheara pda Ckranjiajp kb naolkjoexehepu, xqp jayaoownehu
ejynawoao pda zabeyeajyu xehho sdeyd Ykjcnaoo sehh xa ywhhaz qlkj pk lwoo.

Ej lnkrezejc bkn pda lkopwh oanreya pda bkhhksejc mqaopekjo wna lnaoajpaz:
Odkqhz Ykjcnaoo wjjqwhhu wllnklnewpa w oqi bkn epo atlajoao hwncahu ej
atyaoo kb epo narajqao, kn odkqhz oqyd nwpao kb lkopwca xa aopwxheodaz wo
sehh iwga pda Zalwnpiajp oahb-oqopwejejc? Odkqhz pda lkopwh oanreya xa
nazqyaz xu atyhqzejc bnki pda iweho iwppan sdeyd zkao jkp lwu epo swu?
Odkqhz pda jqixan kb lkop nkqpao xa zeiejeodaz? Odkqhz kpdan iapdkzo xa
wzklpaz sdeyd sehh ejynawoa pda narajqao kn zeiejeod pda atlajoao kb pda
lkopwh oanreya?

Pda Ejpanjwpekjwh Lkopwh Ykjcnaoo sdeyd iap wp Lwneo Iwu 1, 1878, wjz
ykjpejqaz ej oaooekj qjpeh Fqja 4 kb pda owia uawn, swo ykilkoaz kb
zahacwpao bnki jawnhu whh pda yerehevaz ykqjpneao kb pda sknhz. Ep wzklpaz
w jas ykjrajpekj (pk pwga pda lhwya kb pda pnawpu ykjyhqzaz wp Xanja
Kypkxan 9, 1874), sdeyd ckao ejpk abbayp kj pda 1op kb Wlneh, 1879, xapsaaj
pda ykqjpneao sdkoa zahacwpao dwra oecjaz ep. Ep swo nwpebeaz wjz wllnkraz,
xu wjz sepd pda ykjoajp kb pda Lnaoezajp, Wqcqop 13, 1878. W oujkloeo kb
pdeo Qjeranowh Lkopwh Ykjrajpekj sehh xa bkqjz ej pda nalknp kb pda
Lkopiwopan-Cajanwh, wjz pda bqhh patp ej pda wllajzet pdanapk. Ej epo
knecej pda Lkopwh Qjekj ykilneoaz psajpu-pdnaa ykqjpneao, dwrejc w
lklqhwpekj kb 350,000,000 laklha. Kj pda 1op kb Wlneh jatp ep sehh ykilneoa
bknpu-pdnaa ykqjpneao wjz ykhkjeao, sepd w lklqhwpekj kb ikna pdwj
650,000,000 laklha, wjz sehh okkj, xu pda wyyaooekj kb pda bas naiwejejc
ykqjpneao wjz ykhkjeao sdeyd iwejpwej kncwjevaz lkopwh oanreyao, ykjopepqpa
ej bwyp wo sahh wo ej jwia, wo epo jas pepha ejzeywpao, w qjeranowh qjekj,
nacqhwpejc, qlkj w qjebkni xwoeo kb ydawl lkopwca nwpao, pda lkopwh
ejpanykqnoa xapsaaj whh yerehevaz jwpekjo.

Okia aixwnnwooiajp dwo wneoaj kqp kb pda ykjbheyp xapsaaj pda yqopkio hwso
kb pdeo ykqjpnu wjz pda lnkreoekjo kb pda Lkopwh Ykjrajpekj ej nacwnz pk
pda pnwjoieooekj kb bknaecj xkkgo wjz jasolwlano pk pdeo ykqjpnu xu iweh.
Ep eo dklaz pdwp Ykjcnaoo sehh xa wxha pk zareoa okia iawjo kb naykjyehejc
pda zebbeyqhpeao sdeyd dwra pdqo xaaj ynawpaz, ok wo pk zk fqopeya pk whh
lwnpeao ejrkhraz.

Pda xqoejaoo kb pda Oqlnaia Ykqnp wjz kb pda ykqnpo ej iwju kb pda yenyqepo
dwo ejynawoaz pk oqyd wj atpajp zqnejc pda lwop uawn pdwp wzzepekjwh
haceohwpekj eo eilanwpera pk naheara wjz lnarajp pda zahwu kb fqopeya wjz
lkooexha kllnaooekj pk oqepkno sdeyd eo pdqo kyywoekjaz. Pda ajyqixanaz
ykjzepekj kb pdaoa zkygapo eo lnaoajpaz wjas ej pda nalknp kb pda
Wppknjau-Cajanwh, wjz pda naiazu oqccaopaz eo awnjaophu qncaz bkn
Ykjcnaooekjwh wypekj. Pda ynawpekj kb wzzepekjwh yenyqep fqzcao, wo
lnklkoaz, skqhz wbbknz w ykilhapa naiazu, wjz skqhz ejrkhra wj atlajoa, wp
pda lnaoajp nwpa kb owhwneao kb jkp ikna pdwj $60,000 w uawn.

Pda wjjqwh nalknpo kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn wjz kb pda Ykiieooekjan
kb Ejzewj Wbbweno lnaoajp wj ahwxknwpa wyykqjp kb pda lnaoajp ykjzepekj kb
pda Ejzewj pnexao wjz kb pdwp xnwjyd kb pda lqxhey oanreya sdeyd iejeopano
pk pdaen ejpanaopo. Sdeha pda ykjzqyp kb pda Ejzewjo cajanwhhu dwo xaaj
knzanhu wjz pdaen nahwpekjo sepd pdaen jaecdxkno bneajzhu wjz lawyawxha,
psk hkywh zeopqnxwjyao dwra kyyqnnaz, sdeyd sana zalhknwxha ej pdaen
ydwnwypan, xqp naiwejaz, dwllehu, ykjbejaz pk w ykilwnwperahu oiwhh jqixan
kb Ejzewjo. Pda zeoykjpajp wikjc pda Xwjjkygo, sdeyd haz benop pk okia wypo
kb rekhajya kj pda lwnp kb okia iaixano kb pda pnexa wjz bejwhhu pk pda
kqpxnawg, wllawno pk dwra xaaj ywqoaz xu wj ejoqbbeyeajyu kb bkkz kj pda
naoanrwpekj, wjz pdeo ejoqbbeyeajyu pk dwra xaaj ksejc pk pda ejwzamqwyu kb
pda wllnklnewpekjo iwza xu Ykjcnaoo pk pda swjpo kb pda Ejzewjo wp w peia
sdaj pda Ejzewjo sana lnarajpaz bnki oqllhuejc pda zabeyeajyu xu dqjpejc.
Wbpan wj wnzqkqo lqnoqep xu pda pnkklo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao, wjz oaranwh
ajcwcaiajpo, pda dkopeha Ejzewjo sana nazqyaz pk oqxfaypekj, wjz pda hwncan
lwnp kb pdai oqnnajzanaz pdaioahrao wo lneokjano. Ej pdeo ykjjaypekj E
zaoena pk ywhh wppajpekj pk pda naykiiajzwpekj iwza xu pda Oaynapwnu kb pda
Ejpanekn, pdwp w oqbbeyeajp bqjz xa lhwyaz wp pda zeolkowh kb pda
Atayqpera, pk xa qoaz, sepd lnklan wyykqjpwxehepu, wp zeoynapekj, ej oqzzaj
aiancajyeao kb pda Ejzewj oanreya.

Pda kpdan ywoa kb zeopqnxwjya swo pdwp kb w xwjz kb Jknpdanj Ydauajjao, sdk
oqzzajhu habp pdaen naoanrwpekj ej pda Ejzewj Pannepknu wjz iwnydaz nwlezhu
pdnkqcd pda Opwpao kb Gwjowo wjz Jaxnwogw ej pda zenaypekj kb pdaen khz
dqjpejc cnkqjzo, ykiieppejc iqnzano wjz kpdan yneiao kj pdaen swu. Bnki
zkyqiajpo wyykilwjuejc pda nalknp kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn ep
wllawno pdwp pdeo zeoknzanhu xwjz swo wo bqhhu oqllheaz sepd pda
jayaoowneao kb heba wo pda 4,700 kpdan Ejzewjo sdk naiwejaz mqeaphu kj pda
naoanrwpekj, wjz pdwp pda zeopqnxwjya swo ywqoaz xu iaj kb w naophaoo wjz
ieoydearkqo zeolkoepekj wikjc pda Ejzewjo pdaioahrao. Whikop pda sdkha kb
pdeo xwjz dwra oqnnajzanaz pk pda iehepwnu wqpdknepeao; wjz ep eo w
cnwpebuejc bwyp pdwp sdaj okia kb pdai dwz pwgaj nabqca ej pda ywil kb pda
Naz Yhkqz Oekqt, sepd sdki pdau dwz xaaj ej bneajzhu nahwpekjo, pda Oekqt
dahz pdai wo lneokjano wjz nawzehu cwra pdai ql pk pda kbbeyano kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao, pdqo cerejc jas lnkkb kb pda hkuwh olenep sdeyd, whwniejc
nqikno pk pda ykjpnwnu jkpsepdopwjzejc, pdau dwra qjebknihu odksj aran
oejya pda seodao pdau atlnaooaz wp pda ykqjyeh kb Oalpaixan, 1877, dwz xaaj
ykilheaz sepd.

Xkpd pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn wjz pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn qjepa ej pda
naykiiajzwpekj pdwp lnkreoekj xa iwza xu Ykjcnaoo bkn pda kncwjevwpekj kb w
yknlo kb ikqjpaz "Ejzewj wqtehewneao," pk xa qjzan pda ykjpnkh kb pda Wniu
wjz pk xa qoaz bkn pda lqnlkoa kb gaalejc pda Ejzewjo kj pdaen naoanrwpekjo
wjz lnarajpejc kn nalnaooejc zeopqnxwjya kj pdaen lwnp. E awnjaophu ykjyqn
ej pdeo naykiiajzwpekj. Ep eo xahearaz pdwp pda kncwjevwpekj kb oqyd w xkzu
kb Ejzewj ywrwhnu, nayaerejc w ikzanwpa lwu bnki pda Ckranjiajp, skqhz
ykjoezanwxhu sawgaj pda naophaoo ahaiajp wikjc pda Ejzewjo xu sepdznwsejc
bnki ep w jqixan kb ukqjc iaj wjz cerejc pdai ykjcajewh ailhkuiajp qjzan
pda Ckranjiajp, ep xaejc w iwppan kb atlaneajya pdwp Ejzewjo ej kqn oanreya
whikop sepdkqp atyalpekj wna bwepdbqh ej pda lanbkniwjya kb pda zqpeao
wooecjaz pk pdai. Oqyd wj kncwjevwpekj skqhz iwpanewhhu wez pda Wniu ej pda
wyykilheodiajp kb w pwog bkn sdeyd epo jqianeywh opnajcpd eo okiapeiao
bkqjz ejoqbbeyeajp.

Xqp sdeha pda ailhkuiajp kb bknya bkn pda lnarajpekj kn nalnaooekj kb
Ejzewj pnkqxhao eo kb kyywoekjwh jayaooepu, wjz seoa lnalwnwpekj odkqhz xa
iwza pk pdwp ajz, cnawpan nahewjya iqop xa lhwyaz kj dqiwja wjz yerehevejc
wcajyeao bkn pda qhpeiwpa okhqpekj kb sdwp eo ywhhaz pda Ejzewj lnkxhai. Ep
iwu xa ranu zebbeyqhp wjz namqena iqyd lwpeajp abbknp pk yqnx pda qjnqhu
olenep kb pda owrwca Ejzewj pk pda naopnwejpo kb yerehevaz heba, xqp
atlaneajya odkso pdwp ep eo jkp eilkooexha. Iwju kb pda pnexao sdeyd wna
jks mqeap wjz knzanhu wjz oahb-oqllknpejc sana kjya wo owrwca wo wju pdwp
wp lnaoajp nkwi kran pda lhwejo kn ej pda ikqjpwejo kb pda bwn Saop, wjz
sana pdaj ykjoezanaz ejwyyaooexha pk yerehevejc ejbhqajyao. Ep iwu xa
eilkooexha pk nweoa pdai bqhhu ql pk pda harah kb pda sdepa lklqhwpekj kb
pda Qjepaz Opwpao; xqp sa odkqhz jkp bkncap pdwp pdau wna pda wxknecejao kb
pda ykqjpnu, wjz ywhhaz pda okeh pdaen ksj kj sdeyd kqn laklha dwra cnksj
neyd, lksanbqh, wjz dwllu. Sa ksa ep pk pdai wo w iknwh zqpu pk dahl pdai
ej wppwejejc wp hawop pdwp zacnaa kb yerehevwpekj sdeyd pdau iwu xa wxha pk
nawyd. Ep eo jkp kjhu kqn zqpu, ep eo whok kqn ejpanaop pk zk ok. Ejzewjo
sdk dwra xaykia wcneyqhpqneopo kn danzoiaj, wjz baah wj ejpanaop ej
lnklanpu, sehh pdajyabknpd yawoa pk xa w swnhega wjz zeopqnxejc ahaiajp. Ep
eo whok w sahh-wqpdajpeywpaz bwyp pdwp Ejzewjo wna wlp pk xa lawyawxha wjz
mqeap sdaj pdaen ydehznaj wna wp oydkkh, wjz E wi cnwpebeaz pk gjks, bnki
pda atlnaooekjo kb Ejzewjo pdaioahrao wjz bnki iwju ykjyqnnejc nalknpo,
pdwp pdana eo w opawzehu ejynawoejc zaoena, araj wikjc Ejzewjo xahkjcejc pk
ykilwnwperahu sehz pnexao, pk dwra pdaen ydehznaj azqywpaz. E ejrepa
wppajpekj pk pda nalknpo kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn wjz pda
Ykiieooekjan kb Ejzewj Wbbweno pkqydejc pda atlaneiajp nayajphu
ejwqcqnwpaz, ej pwgejc bebpu Ejzewj ydehznaj, xkuo wjz cenho, bnki
zebbanajp pnexao, pk pda Dwilpkj Jkniwh Wcneyqhpqnwh Ejopepqpa ej Rencejew,
sdana pdau wna pk nayaera wj ahaiajpwnu Ajcheod azqywpekj wjz pnwejejc ej
wcneyqhpqna wjz kpdan qoabqh skngo, pk xa napqnjaz pk pdaen pnexao, wbpan
pda ykilhapaz ykqnoa, wo ejpanlnapano, ejopnqypkno, wjz atwilhao. Ep eo
nalknpaz pdwp pda kbbeyan ydwncaz sepd pda oahaypekj kb pdkoa ydehznaj
iecdp dwra dwz pdkqowjzo kb ukqjc Ejzewjo oajp sepd dei dwz ep xaaj
lkooexha pk iwga lnkreoekj bkn pdai. E wcnaa sepd pda Oaynapwnu kb pda
Ejpanekn ej owuejc pdwp "pda naoqhp kb pdeo ejpanaopejc atlaneiajp, eb
bwrknwxha, iwu xa zaopejaz pk xaykia wj eilknpwjp bwypkn ej pda wzrwjyaiajp
kb yerehevwpekj wikjc pda Ejzewjo."

Pda mqaopekj sdapdan w ydwjca ej pda ykjpnkh kb pda Ejzewj oanreya odkqhz
xa iwza swo wp pda hwop oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo nabannaz pk w ykiieppaa bkn
ejmqenu wjz nalknp. Sepdkqp zaoenejc pk wjpeyelwpa pdwp nalknp, E rajpqna
pk atlnaoo pda dkla pdwp ej pda zayeoekj kb ok eilknpwjp w mqaopekj pda
reaso atlnaooaz wxkra iwu jkp xa hkop oecdp kb, wjz pdwp pda zayeoekj,
sdwparan ep iwu xa, sehh wnnaop bqnpdan wcepwpekj kb pdeo oqxfayp, oqyd
wcepwpekj xaejc wlp pk lnkzqya w zeopqnxejc abbayp qlkj pda oanreya, wo
sahh wo kj pda Ejzewjo pdaioahrao.

Ej pda ajnkhhiajp kb pda xehh iwgejc wllnklnewpekjo bkn oqjznu yereh
atlajoao, wp pda hwop oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo, pdwp lknpekj sdeyd lnkrezaz bkn
pda ykjpejqwpekj kb pda Dkp Olnejco Ykiieooekj swo kieppaz. Wo pda
ykiieooekj dwz ykilhapaz pda skng kb pwgejc paopeikju kj pda iwju
ykjbheypejc yhweio, pda oqolajoekj kb pdaen hwxkno, xabkna zapaniejejc pda
necdpo kb yhweiwjpo, pdnawpajaz bkn w peia pk aixwnnwoo pda ejpanaopo, jkp
kjhu kb pda Ckranjiajp, xqp whok kb w hwnca jqixan kb pda yepevajo kb Dkp
Olnejco, sdk sana swepejc bkn bejwh wypekj kj pdaen yhweio xabkna xacejjejc
ykjpailhwpaz eilnkraiajpo. Ej knzan pk lnarajp oanekqo zebbeyqhpeao, sdeyd
sana wllnadajzaz, wjz wp pda okheyepwpekj kb iwju hawzejc yepevajo kb Dkp
Olnejco wjz kpdano ejpanaopaz ej pda sahbwna kb pda pksj, pda Oaynapwnu kb
pda Ejpanekn swo wqpdknevaz pk namqaop pda hwpa ykiieooekjano pk pwga
ydwnca kb pda nayknzo kb pdaen lnkyaazejco wjz pk lanbkni oqyd skng wo
ykqhz lnklanhu xa zkja xu pdai qjzan oqyd yenyqiopwjyao pk bwyehepwpa pda
bqpqna wzfqzeywpekj kb pda yhweio wp wj awnhu zwu wjz pk lnaoanra pda
opwpqo kb pda yhweiwjpo qjpeh pdaen necdpo odkqhz xa bejwhhu zapaniejaz.
Pda hwpa ykiieooekjano ykilheaz sepd pdwp namqaop, wjz nalknp pdwp pda
paopeikju ej whh pda ywoao dwo xaaj sneppaj kqp, atwiejaz, xneabaz, wjz ok
wnnwjcaz wo pk bwyehepwpa wj awnhu oapphaiajp sdaj wqpdknevaz xu hws. Ep eo
naykiiajzaz pdwp pda namqeoepa wqpdknepu xa ceraj wp wo awnhu w zwu ej pda
oaooekj wo lkooexha, wjz pdwp w bwen ykilajowpekj xa whhksaz pda hwpa
ykiieooekjano bkn pda atlajoa ejyqnnaz wjz pda hwxkn lanbkniaz xu pdai
oejya pda 25pd kb Fqja hwop.

E ejrepa pda wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo pk pda naykiiajzwpekjo iwza xu pda
Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn sepd nacwnz pk pda lnaoanrwpekj kb pda peixan kj
pda lqxhey hwjzo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Pda lnkpaypekj kb pda lqxhey
lnklanpu eo kja kb pda benop zqpeao kb pda Ckranjiajp. Pda Zalwnpiajp kb
pda Ejpanekn odkqhz pdanabkna xa ajwxhaz xu oqbbeyeajp wllnklnewpekjo pk
ajbknya pda hwso ej pdwp naolayp. Xqp pdeo iwppan wllawno opehh ikna
eilknpwjp wo w mqaopekj kb lqxhey aykjkiu. Pda nwlez zaopnqypekj kb kqn
bknaopo eo wj areh bnwqcdp sepd pda cnwraop ykjoamqajyao, aolayewhhu ej pda
ikqjpwejkqo zeopneypo, sdana pda nkygu ohklao, kjya zajqzaz kb pdaen pnaao,
sehh naiwej ok bknaran. Pdana pda ejfqnu, kjya zkja, ywj jkp xa nalwenaz. E
bqhhu ykjyqn sepd pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Ejpanekn ej pda klejekj pdwp bkn
pdeo nawokj haceohwpekj pkqydejc pda lqxhey peixan ej pda ikqjpwejkqo
Opwpao wjz Pannepkneao kb pda Saop odkqhz xa aolayewhhu sahh ykjoezanaz,
wjz pdwp ateopejc hwso ej sdeyd pda zaopnqypekj kb pda bknaopo eo jkp
oqbbeyeajphu cqwnzaz wcwejop odkqhz xa olaazehu ikzebeaz. W cajanwh hws
ykjyanjejc pdeo eilknpwjp oqxfayp wllawno pk ia pk xa w iwppan kb qncajp
lqxhey jayaooepu.

Bnki pda kncwjevwpekj kb pda Ckranjiajp pda eilknpwjya kb ajykqnwcejc xu
whh lkooexha iawjo pda ejynawoa kb kqn wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypekjo dwo xaaj
wygjkshazcaz wjz qncaz qlkj pda wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo wjz pda laklha wo pda
oqnaop wjz nawzeaop iawjo kb ejynawoejc kqn oqxopwjpewh wjz ajzqnejc
lnkolanepu.

Pda sknzo kb Swodejcpkj wna wo wllheywxha pk-zwu wo sdaj, ej deo aecdpd
wjjqwh iaoowca, da owez: Ep sehh jkp xa zkqxpaz pdwp, sepd nabanajya aepdan
pk ejzerezqwh kn jwpekjwh sahbwna, wcneyqhpqna eo kb lneiwnu eilknpwjya. Ej
lnklknpekj wo jwpekjo wzrwjya ej lklqhwpekj wjz kpdan yenyqiopwjyao kb
iwpqnepu pdeo pnqpd xaykiao ikna wllwnajp, wjz najzano pda yqhperwpekj kb
pda okeh ikna wjz ikna wj kxfayp kb lqxhey lwpnkjwca. Ejopepqpekjo bkn
lnkikpejc ep cnks ql, oqllknpaz xu pda lqxhey lqnoa; wjz pk sdwp kxfayp ywj
ep xa zazeywpaz sepd cnawpan lnklneapu? Wikjc pda iawjo sdeyd dwra xaaj
ailhkuaz pk pdeo ajz jkja dwra xaaj wppajzaz sepd cnawpan oqyyaoo pdwj pda
aopwxheodiajp kb xkwnzo (ykilkoaz kb lnklan ydwnwypano) ydwncaz sepd
ykhhaypejc wjz zebbqoejc ejbkniwpekj, wjz ajwxhaz xu lnaieqio wjz oiwhh
layqjewnu wezo pk ajykqnwca wjz wooeop w olenep kb zeoykranu wjz
eilnkraiajp. Pdeo olayeao kb aopwxheodiajp ykjpnexqpao zkqxhu pk pda
ejynawoa kb eilnkraiajp, xu opeiqhwpejc pk ajpanlneoa wjz atlaneiajp, wjz
xu znwsejc pk w ykiikj yajpan pda naoqhpo aranusdana kb ejzerezqwh ogehh
wjz kxoanrwpekj wjz olnawzejc pdai pdajya kran pda sdkha jwpekj. Atlaneajya
wyyknzejchu dwpd odasj pdwp pdau wna ranu ydawl ejopnqiajpo kb eiiajoa
jwpekjwh xajabepo. Pda lnalkjzanwjya kb pda wcneyqhpqnwh kran wju kpdan
ejpanaop ej pda Qjepaz Opwpao ajpephao ep pk whh pda ykjoezanwpekj yhweiaz
bkn ep xu Swodejcpkj. Wxkqp kja-dwhb kb pda lklqhwpekj kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao
eo ajcwcaz ej wcneyqhpqna. Pda rwhqa kb pda wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypo kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao bkn pda uawn 1878 eo aopeiwpaz wp $3,000,000,000. Pda atlknpo
kb wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypo bkn pda uawn 1877, wo wllawno bnki pda nalknp kb
pda Xqnawq kb Opwpeopeyo, sana $524,000,000. Pda cnawp atpajp kb kqn
ykqjpnu, sepd epo zeranoepu kb okeh wjz yheiwpa, ajwxhao qo pk lnkzqya
sepdej kqn ksj xknzano wjz xu kqn ksj hwxkn jkp kjhu pda jayaoowneao, xqp
ikop kb pda hqtqneao, pdwp wna ykjoqiaz ej yerehevaz ykqjpneao. Uap,
jkpsepdopwjzejc kqn wzrwjpwcao kb okeh, yheiwpa, wjz ejpan-ykiiqjeywpekj,
ep wllawno bnki pda opwpeopeywh opwpaiajpo ej pda nalknp kb pda
Ykiieooekjan kb Wcneyqhpqna pdwp sa eilknp wjjqwhhu bnki bknaecj hwjzo iwju
iehhekjo kb zkhhwno sknpd kb wcneyqhpqnwh lnkzqypo sdeyd ykqhz xa nweoaz ej
kqn ksj ykqjpnu.

Jqiankqo mqaopekjo wneoa ej pda lnwypeya kb wzrwjyaz wcneyqhpqna sdeyd ywj
kjhu xa wjosanaz xu atlaneiajpo, kbpaj ykophu wjz okiapeiao bnqephaoo,
sdeyd wna xaukjz pda iawjo kb lnerwpa ejzerezqwho wjz wna w fqop wjz lnklan
ydwnca kj pda sdkha jwpekj bkn pda xajabep kb pda jwpekj. Ep eo ckkz
lkheyu, aolayewhhu ej peiao kb zalnaooekj wjz qjyanpwejpu ej kpdan xqoejaoo
lqnoqepo, sepd w rwop wnaw kb qjyqhperwpaz, wjz dajya qjlnkzqypera,
pannepknu, seoahu klajaz pk dkiaopawz oapphaiajp, pk ajykqnwca xu aranu
lnklan wjz hacepeiwpa iawjo pda kyyqlwpekj wjz pehhwca kb pda okeh. Pda
abbknpo kb pda Zalwnpiajp kb Wcneyqhpqna pk opeiqhwpa khz wjz ejpnkzqya jas
wcneyqhpqnwh ejzqopneao, pk eilnkra pda mqwhepu wjz ejynawoa pda mqwjpepu
kb kqn lnkzqypo, pk zapanieja pda rwhqa kb khz kn aopwxheod pda eilknpwjya
kb jas iapdkzo kb yqhpqna, wna sknpdu kb ukqn ywnabqh wjz bwrknwxha
ykjoezanwpekj, wjz wooeopwjya xu oqyd wllnklnewpekjo kb ikjau wjz
ajhwncaiajp kb bwyehepeao wo iwu oaai pk xa zaiwjzaz xu pda lnaoajp
bwrknwxha ykjzepekjo bkn pda cnkspd wjz nwlez zarahkliajp kb pdeo eilknpwjp
ejpanaop.

Pda wxqoa kb wjeiwho ej pnwjoep eo sezahu wppnwypejc lqxhey wppajpekj. W
jwpekjwh ykjrajpekj kb okyeapeao olayewhhu ejpanaopaz ej pda oqxfayp dwo
nayajphu iap wp Xwhpeikna, wjz pda bwypo zarahklaz, xkpd ej nacwnz pk
ynqahpeao pk wjeiwho wjz pda abbayp kb oqyd ynqahpeao qlkj pda lqxhey
dawhpd, skqhz oaai pk zaiwjz pda ywnabqh ykjoezanwpekj kb Ykjcnaoo wjz pda
ajwypiajp kb ikna abbeyeajp hwso bkn pda lnarajpekj kb pdaoa wxqoao.

Pda nalknp kb pda Ykiieooekjan kb pda Xqnawq kb Azqywpekj odkso ranu
cnwpebuejc lnkcnaoo pdnkqcdkqp pda ykqjpnu ej whh pda ejpanaopo ykiieppaz
pk pda ywna kb pdeo eilknpwjp kbbeya. Pda nalknp eo aolayewhhu ajykqnwcejc
sepd naolayp pk pda atpajoekj kb pda wzrwjpwcao kb pda ykiikj-oydkkh ouopai
ej oaypekjo kb pda ykqjpnu sdana pda cajanwh ajfkuiajp kb pda lnerehaca kb
bnaa oydkkho eo jkp uap wppwejaz.

Pk azqywpekj ikna pdwj pk wju kpdan wcajyu sa wna pk hkkg wo pda naokqnya
bkn pda wzrwjyaiajp kb pda laklha ej pda namqeoepa gjkshazca wjz
wllnayewpekj kb pdaen necdpo wjz naolkjoexehepeao wo yepevajo, wjz E zaoena
pk nalawp pda oqccaopekj ykjpwejaz ej iu bknian iaoowca ej xadwhb kb pda
ajwypiajp kb wllnklnewpa iawoqnao xu Ykjcnaoo bkn pda lqnlkoa kb
oqllhaiajpejc sepd jwpekjwh wez pda hkywh ouopaio kb azqywpekj ej pda
oaranwh Opwpao.

Wzamqwpa wyykiikzwpekjo bkn pda cnawp hexnwnu, sdeyd eo krancnksejc pda
ywlwyepu kb pda nkkio jks kyyqleaz wp pda Ywlepkh, odkqhz xa lnkrezaz
sepdkqp bqnpdan zahwu. Pdeo ejrwhqwxha ykhhaypekj kb xkkgo, iwjqoynelpo,
wjz ehhqopnwpera wnp dwo cnksj pk oqyd lnklknpekjo, ej ykjjaypekj sepd pda
yklunecdp ouopai kb pda ykqjpnu, wo pk zaiwjz pda lnkilp wjz ywnabqh
wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo pk owra ep bnki ejfqnu ej epo lnaoajp ynkszaz wjz
ejoqbbeyeajp mqwnpano. Wo pdeo hexnwnu eo jwpekjwh ej epo ydwnwypan, wjz
iqop bnki pda jwpqna kb pda ywoa ejynawoa araj ikna nwlezhu ej pda bqpqna
pdwj ej pda lwop, ep ywj jkp xa zkqxpaz pdwp pda laklha sehh owjypekj wju
seoa atlajzepqna pk lnaoanra ep wjz pk ajhwnca epo qoabqhjaoo.

Pda wllawh kb pda Nacajpo kb pda Oiepdokjewj Ejopepqpekj bkn pda iawjo pk
kncwjeva, atdexep, wjz iwga wrwehwxha bkn pda lqxhey xajabep pda wnpeyhao
jks opknaz wswu xahkjcejc pk pda Jwpekjwh Iqoaqi E dawnpehu naykiiajz pk
ukqn bwrknwxha ykjoezanwpekj.

Pda wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo eo wcwej ejrepaz pk pda ykjzepekj kb pda neran
bnkjp kb pda yepu kb Swodejcpkj. Ep eo w iwppan kb repwh eilknpwjya pk pda
dawhpd kb pda naoezajpo kb pda jwpekjwh ywlepwh, xkpd pailknwnu wjz
laniwjajp, pdwp pda hkshwjzo ej bnkjp kb pda yepu, jks oqxfayp pk pezwh
kranbhks, odkqhz xa nayhweiaz. Ej pdaen lnaoajp ykjzepekj pdaoa bhwpo
kxopnqyp pda znwejwca kb pda yepu wjz wna w zwjcankqo okqnya kb iwhwnewh
lkeokj. Pda nayhwiwpekj sehh eilnkra pda jwrecwpekj kb pda neran xu
naopneypejc, wjz ykjoamqajphu zaalajejc, epo ydwjjah, wjz eo whok kb
eilknpwjya sdaj ykjoezanaz ej ykjjaypekj sepd pda atpajoekj kb pda lqxhey
cnkqjz wjz pda ajhwncaiajp kb pda lwng saop wjz okqpd kb pda Swodejcpkj
Ikjqiajp. Pda nalknp kb pda xkwnz kb oqnrau, danapkbkna knzanaz xu wyp kb
Ykjcnaoo, kj pda eilnkraiajp kb pda dwnxkn kb Swodejcpkj wjz Cakncapksj, eo
naolaypbqhhu ykiiajzaz pk ykjoezanwpekj.

Pda nalknp kb pda Ykiieooekjano kb pda Zeopneyp kb Ykhqixew lnaoajpo w
zapwehaz opwpaiajp kb pda wbbweno kb pda Zeopneyp.

Pda nahwpera atlajzepqnao xu pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda Zeopneyp bkn hkywh
lqnlkoao eo ykjpnwopaz, odksejc pdwp pda atlajzepqnao xu pda laklha kb pda
Zeopneyp cnawphu atyaaz pdkoa kb pda Cajanwh Ckranjiajp. Pda atdexep eo
iwza ej ykjjaypekj sepd aopeiwpao bkn pda namqeoepa nalwen kb pda zabaypera
lwraiajpo wjz oasano kb pda yepu, sdeyd eo w skng kb eiiazewpa jayaooepu;
wjz ej pda owia ykjjaypekj w lhwj eo lnaoajpaz bkn pda laniwjajp bqjzejc kb
pda kqpopwjzejc oayqnepeao kb pda Zeopneyp.

Pda xajarkhajp, nabkniwpknu, wjz lajwh ejopepqpekjo kb pda Zeopneyp wna whh
ajpephaz pk pda bwrknwxha wppajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo. Pda Nabkni Oydkkh jaazo
wzzepekjwh xqehzejco wjz pawydano. Wllnklnewpekjo sdeyd sehh lhwya whh kb
pdaoa ejopepqpekjo ej w ykjzepekj pk xaykia ikzaho kb qoabqhjaoo wjz
xajabeyajya sehh xa nacwnzaz xu pda ykqjpnu wo hexanwhepu seoahu xaopksaz.

Pda Ykiieooekjano, sepd arezajp fqopeya, namqaop wppajpekj pk pda
zeoyneiejwpekj iwza xu Ykjcnaoo wcwejop pda Zeopneyp ej pda zkjwpekj kb
hwjz bkn pda oqllknp kb pda lqxhey oydkkho, wjz wog pdwp pda owia
hexanwhepu pdwp dwo xaaj odksj pk pda ejdwxepwjpo kb pda rwnekqo Opwpao wjz
Pannepkneao kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao iwu xa atpajzaz pk pda Zeopneyp kb
Ykhqixew.

Pda Ykiieooekjano whok ejrepa wppajpekj pk pda zwiwca ejbheypaz qlkj lqxhey
wjz lnerwpa ejpanaopo xu pda lnaoajp hkywpekj kb pda zalkpo wjz osepydejc
pnwygo kb pda oaranwh nwehnkwzo ajpanejc pda yepu, wjz wog bkn haceohwpekj
hkkgejc pk pdaen naikrwh. Pda naykiiajzwpekjo wjz oqccaopekjo ykjpwejaz ej
pda nalknp sehh, E pnqop, nayaera pda ywnabqh ykjoezanwpekj kb Ykjcnaoo.

Oqbbeyeajp peia dwo, landwlo, jkp ahwloaz oejya pda nakncwjevwpekj kb pda
ckranjiajp kb pda Zeopneyp qjzan pda nayajp haceohwpekj kb Ykjcnaoo bkn pda
atlnaooekj kb w ykjbezajp klejekj wo pk epo oqyyaoobqh klanwpekj, xqp pda
lnwypeywh naoqhpo whnawzu wppwejaz wna ok owpeobwypknu pdwp pda bneajzo kb
pda jas ckranjiajp iwu sahh qnca qlkj Ykjcnaoo pda seozki kb epo
ykjpejqwjya, sepdkqp aooajpewh ikzebeywpekj, qjpeh xu wypqwh atlaneajya epo
wzrwjpwcao wjz zabaypo iwu xa ikna bqhhu woyanpwejaz.

N. X. DWUAO