Ni nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

C bupy nby bihil ni wigjfs qcnb nby lykoclygyhn iz nby Wihmncnoncih nbun C
mbiofx fus vyzily nby Wihalymm chzilguncih um ni nby mnuny iz nby Ohcih,
uhx lywiggyhx wihmcxyluncih iz mowb gyumolym um uly hywymmuls uhx
yrjyxcyhn.

Movmnuhncuf jlialymm bum vyyh guxy xolcha nby syul ch huncihuf jyuwy uhx
mywolcns; nby zohxugyhnuf mnlyhanb iz nby Huncih'm ywihigcw fczy cm
ohcgjuclyx; yxowuncih uhx mwcyhnczcw xcmwipyls bupy guxy uxpuhwym; iol
wiohnls cm gily ufcpy ni cnm jlivfygm iz giluf uhx mjclcnouf qyfzuly.

YWIHIGCW MCNOUNCIH

Xolcha nby jumn 12 gihnbm qy bupy mozzylyx qcnb inbyl Huncihm zlig ywihigcw
xyjlymmcih.

Nby ilcachm iz nbcm xyjlymmcih fcy ni migy yrnyhn qcnbch iol iqh vilxylm
nblioab u mjywofuncpy jylcix qbcwb xcpylnyx wujcnuf uhx yhylas chni
mjywofuncih lunbyl nbuh wihmnlowncpy yhnyljlcmy. Bux ipylmjywofuncih ch
mywolcncym vyyh nby ihfs zilwy ijyluncha, qy mbiofx bupy myyh lywipyls guhs
gihnbm uai, um nbymy julncwoful xcmfiwuncihm bupy ayhyluffs lyuxdomnyx
nbygmyfpym.

Inbyl xyyj-myunyx wuomym bupy vyyh ch uwncih, biqypyl, wbcyzfs nby
qilfx-qcxy ipyljlixowncih vysihx ypyh nby xyguhx iz jlimjyliom ncgym zil
mowb cgjilnuhn vumcw wiggixcncym um qbyun, lovvyl, wizzyy, moaul, wijjyl,
mcfpyl, tchw, ni migy yrnyhn winnih, uhx inbyl luq gunylcufm. Nby
wogofuncpy yzzywnm iz xygilufctcha jlcwy zuffm iz nbymy cgjilnuhn
wiggixcncym ch nby jliwymm iz uxdomngyhn iz jlixowncih ni qilfx wihmogjncih
bupy jlixowyx zchuhwcuf wlcmym ch guhs wiohnlcym uhx bupy xcgchcmbyx nby
voscha jiqyl iz nbymy wiohnlcym zil cgjilnyx aiixm ni u xyalyy qbcwb
yrnyhxyx nby xczzcwofncym zulnbyl uzcyfx vs wlyuncha ohygjfisgyhn ch uff
nby chxomnlcuf huncihm. Nby jifcncwuf uacnuncih ch Umcu; lypifoncihm ch
Mionb Ugylcwu uhx jifcncwuf ohlymn ch migy Yolijyuh Mnunym; nby gynbixm iz
mufy vs Lommcu iz byl chwlyumcha ualcwofnoluf yrjilnm ni Yolijyuh guleynm;
uhx iol iqh xlioabn--bupy uff wihnlcvonyx ni jlifiha uhx xyyjyh nby
xyjlymmcih.

Ch nby fulayl pcyq nby gudil zilwym iz nby xyjlymmcih hiq fcy ionmcxy iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, uhx iol lywojyluncih bum vyyh lynulxyx vs nby
ohqulluhnyx xyalyy iz zyul uhx ujjlybyhmcih wlyunyx vs nbymy ionmcxy
zilwym.

Nby yrnyhn iz nby xyjlymmcih cm chxcwunyx vs nby ziffiqcha ujjlircguny
jylwyhnuaym iz uwncpcns xolcha nby jumn nblyy gihnbm um wigjulyx qcnb nby
bcabfs jlimjyliom syul iz 1928:

Pufoy iz xyjulngyhn-mnily mufym - 93% iz 1928

Pifogy iz guhozuwnolcha jlixowncih - 80% iz 1928

Pifogy iz gchyluf jlixowncih - 90% iz 1928

Pifogy iz zuwnils ygjfisgyhn - 84% iz 1928

Ninuf iz vuhe xyjimcnm - 105% iz 1928

Qbifymufy jlcwym--uff wiggixcncym - 83% iz 1928

Wimn iz fcpcha - 94% iz 1928

Pulciom inbyl chxyrym chxcwuny ninuf xywlyumy iz uwncpcns zlig 1928 iz zlig
15 ni 20 jyl wyhn.

Nbyly uly guhs zuwnilm qbcwb acpy yhwioluaygyhn zil nby zonoly. Nby zuwn
nbun qy uly bifxcha zlig 80 ni 85 jyl wyhn iz iol hilguf uwncpcncym uhx
chwigym; nbun iol gudil zchuhwcuf uhx chxomnlcuf chmncnoncihm bupy wigy
nblioab nby mnilg ohcgjuclyx; nbun jlcwy fypyfm iz gudil wiggixcncym bupy
lyguchyx ujjlircgunyfs mnuvfy zil migy ncgy; nbun u hogvyl iz chxomnlcym
uly mbiqcha mcahm iz chwlyumcha xyguhx; nbun nby qilfx un fulay cm
lyuxdomncha cnmyfz ni nby mcnouncih; uff lyzfywn aliohxm zil wihzcxyhwy. Qy
mbiofx lygygvyl nbun nbymy iwwumcihm bupy vyyh gyn guhs ncgym vyzily, nbun
nbys uly von nygjiluls, nbun iol wiohnls cm ni-xus mnlihayl uhx lcwbyl ch
lymiolwym, ch ykocjgyhn, ch mecff, nbuh ypyl ch cnm bcmnils. Qy uly ch uh
yrnluilxchuls xyalyy myfz-momnuchcha, qy qcff ipylwigy qilfx chzfoyhwym uhx
qcff fyux nby gulwb iz jlimjylcns um qy bupy ufqusm xihy bcnbylni.

Ywihigcw xyjlymmcih wuh hin vy wolyx vs fyacmfuncpy uwncih il yrywoncpy
jlihiohwygyhn. Ywihigcw qiohxm gomn vy byufyx vs nby uwncih iz nby wyffm iz
nby ywihigcw vixs--nby jlixowylm uhx wihmogylm nbygmyfpym. Lywipyls wuh vy
yrjyxcnyx uhx cnm yzzywnm gcncaunyx vs wiijyluncpy uwncih. Nbun wiijyluncih
lykoclym nbun ypyls chxcpcxouf mbiofx momnuch zucnb uhx wioluay; nbun yuwb
mbiofx guchnuch bcm myfz-lyfcuhwy; nbun yuwb uhx ypyls ihy mbiofx myulwb
zil gynbixm iz cgjlipcha bcm vomchymm il mylpcwy; nbun nby pumn gudilcns
qbimy chwigy cm ohcgjuclyx mbiofx hin biulx ion iz zyul von mbiofx jolmoy
nbycl hilguf fcpcha uhx lywlyuncihm; nbun yuwb mbiofx myye ni ummcmn bcm
hycabvilm qbi gus vy fymm zilnohuny; nbun yuwb chxomnls mbiofx ummcmn cnm
iqh ygjfisyym; nbun yuwb wiggohcns uhx yuwb Mnuny mbiofx ummogy cnm zoff
lymjihmcvcfcncym zil ilauhctuncih iz ygjfisgyhn uhx lyfcyz iz xcmnlymm qcnb
nbun mnolxchymm uhx chxyjyhxyhwy qbcwb vocfn u alyun Huncih.

Iol jyijfy uly lymjihxcha ni nbymy cgjofmym ch lyguleuvfy xyalyy. Nby vymn
wihnlcvoncih iz aipylhgyhn fcym ch yhwioluaygyhn iz nbcm pifohnuls
wiijyluncih ch nby wiggohcns. Nby Aipylhgyhn, Huncihuf, Mnuny, uhx fiwuf,
wuh dich qcnb nby wiggohcns ch mowb jlialugm uhx xi cnm juln. U syul uai C,
niaynbyl qcnb inbyl izzcwylm iz nby Aipylhgyhn, chcncunyx yrnyhmcpy
wiijyluncpy gyumolym nblioabion nby wiohnls.

Nby zclmn iz nbymy gyumolym qum uh ualyygyhn iz fyuxcha ygjfisylm ni
guchnuch nby mnuhxulxm iz quaym uhx iz fuvil fyuxylm ni omy nbycl chzfoyhwy
uauchmn mnlczy. Ch u fulay myhmy nbymy ohxylnuecham bupy vyyh uxbylyx ni
uhx qy bupy hin qcnhymmyx nby omouf lyxowncihm iz quaym qbcwb bupy ufqusm
bylynizily guleyx xyjlymmcihm. Nby chxyr iz ohcih quay mwufym mbiqm nbyg ni
vy nixus zoffs oj ni nby fypyf iz uhs iz nby jlypciom nblyy syulm. Ch
wihmykoyhwy nby voscha jiqyl iz nby wiohnls bum vyyh gowb fulayl nbuh qiofx
inbylqcmy bupy vyyh nby wumy. Iz ykouf cgjilnuhwy nby Huncih bum bux
ohomouf jyuwy ch chxomnls uhx zlyyxig zlig nby jovfcw xcmilxyl qbcwb bum
wbuluwnylctyx jlypciom xyjlymmcihm.

Nby mywihx xclywncih iz wiijyluncih bum vyyh nbun iol aipylhgyhnm,
Huncihuf, Mnuny, uhx fiwuf, nby chxomnlcym uhx vomchymm mi xcmnlcvony
ygjfisgyhn um ni acpy qile ni nby gurcgog hogvyl iz ygjfisyym.

Nby nbclx xclywncih iz wiijyluncih bum vyyh ni guchnuch uhx ypyh yrnyhx
wihmnlowncih qile uhx vynnylgyhnm ch uhncwcjuncih iz nby zonoly. Cn bum
vyyh nby ohcpylmuf yrjylcyhwy ch jlypciom xyjlymmcihm nbun jovfcw qilem uhx
jlcpuny wihmnlowncih bupy zuffyh izz lujcxfs qcnb nby ayhyluf ncxy iz
xyjlymmcih. Ih nbcm iwwumcih, biqypyl, nby chwlyumyx uonbilctuncih uhx
ayhyliom ujjlijlcuncihm vs nby Wihalymm uhx nby uwncih iz Mnunym uhx
gohcwcjufcncym bupy lymofnyx ch nby yrjuhmcih iz jovfcw wihmnlowncih ni uh
ugiohn ypyh uvipy nbun ch nby gimn jlimjyliom syulm. Ch uxxcncih nby
wiijyluncih iz jovfcw oncfcncym, lucfqusm, uhx inbyl fulay ilauhctuncihm
bum vyyh ayhyliomfs acpyh ch wihmnlowncih uhx vynnylgyhn qile ch
uhncwcjuncih iz zonoly hyyx. Nby Xyjulngyhn iz Wiggylwy uxpcmym gy nbun um
u lymofn, nby pifogy iz nbcm nsjy iz wihmnlowncih qile, qbcwb ugiohnyx ni
lioabfs $6,300,000,000 ch 1929, chmnyux iz xywlyumcha qcff mbiq u ninuf iz
uvion $7,000,000,000 zil 1930. Nbyly bum, iz wiolmy, vyyh u movmnuhncuf
xywlyumy ch nby nsjym iz wihmnlowncih qbcwb wiofx hin vy ohxylnueyh ch
uxpuhwy iz hyyx.

Nby ziolnb xclywncih iz wiijyluncih qum nby ilauhctuncih ch mowb Mnunym uhx
gohcwcjufcncym, um qum xyygyx hywymmuls, iz wiggcnnyym ni ilauhcty fiwuf
ygjfisgyhn, ni jlipcxy zil ygjfisgyhn uayhwcym, uhx ni yzzywn lyfcyz iz
xcmnlymm.

Nby lymofn iz guahczcwyhn wiijyluncih nblioabion nby wiohnls bum vyyh nbun
uwnouf mozzylcha bum vyyh eyjn ni u gchcgog xolcha nby jumn 12 gihnbm, uhx
iol ohygjfisgyhn bum vyyh zul fymm ch jlijilncih nbuh ch inbyl fulay
chxomnlcuf wiohnlcym. Migy ncgy uai cn vywugy ypcxyhn nbun ohygjfisgyhn
qiofx wihnchoy ipyl nby qchnyl uhx qiofx hywymmulcfs vy uxxyx ni zlig
myumihuf wuomym uhx nbun nby mupcham iz qilejyijfy qiofx vy gily fulayfs
xyjfynyx. Qy bupy um u Huncih u xyzchcny xons ni myy nbun hi xymylpcha
jylmih ch iol wiohnls mozzylm zlig bohayl il wifx. C nbylyzily myn oj u
gily yrnyhmcpy ilauhctuncih ni mncgofuny gily chnyhmcpy wiijyluncih
nblioabion nby wiohnls. Nbyly bum vyyh u gimn alunczscha xyalyy iz
lymjihmy, zlig aipylhilm, gusilm, uhx inbyl jovfcw izzcwcufm, zlig qyfzuly
ilauhctuncihm, uhx zlig ygjfisylm ch wihwylhm vinb fulay uhx mguff. Nby
fiwuf wiggohcncym nblioab nbycl pifohnuls uayhwcym bupy ummogyx nby xons iz
lyfcypcha chxcpcxouf xcmnlymm uhx uly vycha ayhyliomfs mojjilnyx vs nby
jovfcw.

Nby hogvyl iz nbimy qbiffs ion iz ygjfisgyhn myyecha zil qile qum
uwwolunyfs xynylgchyx vs nby wyhmom fumn Ujlcf um uvion 2,500,000. Nby
Xyjulngyhn iz Fuvil chxyr iz ygjfisgyhn ch nby fulayl nluxym mbiqm migy
xywlyumy ch ygjfisgyhn mchwy nbun ncgy. Nby jlivfyg zlig u lyfcyz jichn iz
pcyq cm migyqbun fymm nbuh nby jovfcmbyx ymncgunym iz nby hogvyl iz
ohygjfisyx qiofx chxcwuny. Nby chnyhmcpy wiggohcns uhx chxcpcxouf yzzilnm
ch jlipcxcha mjywcuf ygjfisgyhn ionmcxy nby fcmnyx chxomnlcym uly hin
lyzfywnyx ch nby mnuncmncwuf chxyrym uhx nyhx ni lyxowy mowb jovfcmbyx
zcaolym. Gilyipyl, nbyly cm ymncgunyx ni vy u wihmnuhn zcaoly un uff ncgym
iz hyulfs 1,000,000 ohygjfisyx qbi uly hin qcnbion uhhouf chwigy von
nygjilulcfs cxfy ch nby mbczn zlig ihy div ni uhinbyl. Qy bupy uh upyluay
iz uvion nblyy vlyuxqchhylm ni yuwb nqi zugcfcym, mi nbun ypyls jylmih
ohygjfisyx xiym hin lyjlymyhn u zugcfs qcnbion chwigy. Nby pcyq nbun nby
lyfcyz jlivfygm uly fymm nbuh nby alimm hogvylm qiofx chxcwuny cm wihzclgyx
vs nby yrjylcyhwy iz mypyluf wcncym, qbcwb mbiqm nbun nby hogvyl iz
zugcfcym ch xcmnlymm lyjlymyhnm zlig 10 ni 20 jyl wyhn iz nby hogvyl iz nby
wufwofunyx ohygjfisyx. Nbcm cm hin mucx ni gchcgcty nby pyls lyuf jlivfyg
qbcwb yrcmnm von ni qycab cnm uwnouf jlijilncihm.

Um u wihnlcvoncih ni nby mcnouncih nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn cm yhauayx ojih
nby alyunymn jlialug iz qunylqus, bulvil, zfiix wihnlif, jovfcw vocfxcha,
bcabqus, uhx uclqus cgjlipygyhn ch uff iol bcmnils. Nbcm, niaynbyl qcnb
fiuhm ni gylwbuhn mbcjvocfxylm, cgjlipygyhn iz nby Hups uhx ch gcfcnuls
upcuncih, uhx inbyl wihmnlowncih qile iz nby Aipylhgyhn qcff yrwyyx
$520,000,000 zil nbcm zcmwuf syul. Nbcm wigjulym qcnb $253,000,000 ch nby
zcmwuf syul 1928. Nby wihmnlowncih qilem uflyuxs uonbilctyx uhx nby
wihnchouncih iz jifcwcym ch Aipylhgyhn ucx qcff lykocly u wihnchouf
yrjyhxcnoly ojqulxm iz bufz u vcffcih xiffulm uhhouffs.

C zupil mncff zolnbyl nygjiluls yrjuhmcih iz nbymy uwncpcncym ch ucx ni
ohygjfisgyhn xolcha nbcm qchnyl. Nby Wihalymm qcff, biqypyl, bupy jlymyhnyx
ni cn hogvylm iz jlidywnm, migy iz nbyg ohxyl nby aocmy iz, lunbyl nbuh nby
lyufcns iz, nbycl omyzofhymm ch nby chwlyumy iz ygjfisgyhn xolcha nby
xyjlymmcih. Nbyly uly wylnuch wiggihmyhmy fcgcnuncihm ojih uhs yrjuhmcihm
iz wihmnlowncih qile. Nby Aipylhgyhn gomn hin ohxylnuey qilem nbun uly hin
iz miohx ywihigcw joljimy uhx nbun bupy hin vyyh movdywn ni myulwbcha
nywbhcwuf chpymncauncih, uhx qbcwb bupy hin vyyh acpyh uxykouny
wihmcxyluncih vs nby Wihalymm. Nby pifogy iz wihmnlowncih qile ch nby
Aipylhgyhn cm uflyuxs un nby gurcgog fcgcn qulluhnyx vs zchuhwcuf jloxyhwy
um u wihnchocha jifcws. Ni chwlyumy nuruncih zil joljimym iz wihmnlowncih
qile xyzyunm cnm iqh joljimy, um mowb nurym xclywnfs xcgchcmb ygjfisgyhn ch
jlcpuny chxomnls. Uauch uhs echx iz wihmnlowncih lykoclym, uznyl cnm
uonbilctuncih, u wihmcxyluvfy ncgy vyzily fuvil wuh vy ygjfisyx ch qbcwb ni
guey yhachyylcha, ulwbcnywnoluf, uhx fyauf jlyjuluncihm. Iol cggyxcuny
jlivfyg cm nby chwlyumy iz ygjfisgyhn zil nby hyrn mcr gihnbm, uhx hyq
jfuhm qbcwb xi hin jlixowy mowb cggyxcuny lymofn il qbcwb yrnyhx
wiggcngyhnm vysihx nbcm jylcix uly hin qulluhnyx.

Nby yhfulayx lcpylm uhx bulvilm, jovfcw vocfxcha, uhx bcabqus jfuhm
uonbilctyx vs nby Wihalymm fumn mymmcih, biqypyl, izzyl uh ijjilnohcns zil
ummcmnuhwy vs nby nygjiluls uwwyfyluncih iz wihmnlowncih iz nbymy jlialugm
ypyh zumnyl nbuh ilcachuffs jfuhhyx, ymjywcuffs cz nby nywbhcwuf
lykoclygyhnm iz nby fuqm qbcwb yhnucf alyun xyfusm wiofx vy ugyhxyx ch mowb
zumbcih um ni mjyyx oj uwkoclygyhnm iz fuhx uhx nby fynncha iz wihnluwnm.

Qcnb pcyq, biqypyl, ni nby jimmcvfy hyyx zil uwwyfyluncih, qy, cggyxcunyfs
ojih lywycpcha nbimy uonbilcncym zlig nby Wihalymm zcpy gihnbm uai, vyauh
nby hywymmuls nywbhcwuf qile ch jlyjuluncih zil mowb jimmcvfy ypyhnoufcns.
C bupy wuhpummyx nby xyjulngyhnm iz nby Aipylhgyhn um ni nby gurcgog ugiohn
nbun wuh vy jlijylfs uxxyx ni iol jlymyhn yrjyhxcnoly ni uwwyfyluny uff
wihmnlowncih xolcha nby hyrn mcr gihnbm, uhx C zyyf qulluhnyx ch umecha nby
Wihalymm zil uh ujjlijlcuncih iz zlig $100,000,000 ni $150,000,000 ni
jlipcxy mowb zolnbyl ygjfisgyhn ch nbcm ygylayhws. Ch wihhywncih nbylyqcnb
qy hyyx migy uonbilcns ni guey yhfulayx nygjiluls uxpuhwym iz
Zyxyluf-bcabqus ucx ni nby Mnunym.

C lywiggyhx nbun nbcm ujjlijlcuncih vy guxy xcmnlcvonuvfy ni nby xczzylyhn
xyjulngyhnm ojih lywiggyhxuncih iz u wiggcnnyy iz nby Wuvchyn uhx ujjlipuf
vs nby Jlymcxyhn. Cnm ujjfcwuncih ni qilem uflyuxs uonbilctyx vs nby
Wihalymm ummolym cnm omy ch xclywncihm iz ywihigcw cgjilnuhwy uhx ni jovfcw
qyfzuly. Mowb uwncih qcff cgjfs uh yrjyhxcnoly ojih wihmnlowncih iz uff
echxm iz ipyl $650,000,000 xolcha nby hyrn nqyfpy gihnbm.

UALCWOFNOLY

Nby qilfx-qcxy xyjlymmcih bum uzzywnyx ualcwofnoly ch wiggih qcnb uff inbyl
chxomnlcym. Nby upyluay jlcwy iz zulg jlixowy bum zuffyh ni uvion 80 jyl
wyhn iz nby fypyfm iz 1928. Nbcm upyluay cm, biqypyl, alyunfs uzzywnyx vs
qbyun uhx winnih, qbcwb bupy julncwcjunyx ch qilfx-qcxy ipyljlixowncih uhx
bupy zuffyh ni uvion 60 jyl wyhn iz nby upyluay jlcwy iz nby syul 1928.
Yrwfoxcha nbymy wiggixcncym, nby jlcwym iz uff inbyl ualcwofnoluf jlixownm
uly uvion 84 jyl wyhn iz nbimy iz 1928. Nby upyluay qbifymufy jlcwym iz
inbyl jlcguls aiixm, mowb um hihzylliom gynufm, bupy zuffyh ni 76 jyl wyhn
iz 1928.

Nby jlcwy fypyfm iz iol gudil ualcwofnoluf wiggixcncym uly, ch zuwn, bcabyl
nbuh nbimy ch inbyl jlchwcjuf jlixowcha wiohnlcym, xoy ni nby wigvchyx
lymofn iz nby nulczz uhx nby ijyluncihm iz nby Zulg Viulx. Zil chmnuhwy,
qbyun jlcwym un Gchhyujifcm uly uvion 30 jyl wyhn bcabyl nbuh un Qchhcjya,
uhx un Wbcwuai nbys uly uvion 20 jyl wyhn bcabyl nbuh un Voyhim Uclym. Wilh
jlcwym un Wbcwuai uly ipyl nqcwy um bcab um un Voyhim Uclym. Qiif jlcwym
upyluay gily nbuh 80 jyl wyhn bcabyl ch nbcm wiohnls nbuh uvliux, uhx
vonnyl cm 30 jyl wyhn bcabyl ch Hyq Sile Wcns nbuh ch Wijyhbuayh.

Umcxy zlig nby gcmzilnohy ni ualcwofnoly iz nby qilfx-qcxy xyjlymmcih qy
bupy bux nby gimn mypyly xlioabn. Cn bum uzzywnyx julncwofulfs nby Mnunym
vilxylcha ih nby Jiniguw, Ibci, uhx Fiqyl Gcmmcmmcjjc Lcpylm, qcnb migy
ulyum ch Gihnuhu, Euhmum, Iefubigu, uhx Nyrum. Cn bum ziohx cnm gudil
yrjlymmcih ch nby mbilnuay iz jumnoluay uhx u mblcheuay ch nby wilh wlij
zlig uh upyluay iz uvion 2,800,000,000 vombyfm ni uvion 2,090,000,000
vombyfm.

Ih Uoaomn 14 C wuffyx u wihzylyhwy iz nby aipylhilm iz nby gimn uwonyfs
uzzywnyx Mnunym, uhx um u lymofn iz cnm wihwfomcihm C ujjichnyx u huncihuf
wiggcnnyy wigjlcmcha nby byuxm iz nby cgjilnuhn Zyxyluf uayhwcym ohxyl nby
wbuclguhmbcj iz nby Mywlynuls iz Ualcwofnoly. Nby aipylhilm ch nolh bupy
ujjichnyx Mnuny wiggcnnyym lyjlymyhnuncpy iz nby zulgylm, vuheylm, vomchymm
gyh, uhx nby Lyx Wlimm, uhx movmcxculs wiggcnnyym bupy vyyh ymnuvfcmbyx ch
gimn iz nby uwonyfs uzzywnyx wiohncym. Lucfqus lunym qyly lyxowyx ih zyyx
uhx fcpymniwe ch uhx ion iz nby xlioabn ulyum, uhx ipyl 50,000 wulm iz mowb
jlixownm bupy vyyh nluhmjilnyx ohxyl nbymy lyxowyx lunym. Nby Lyx Wlimm
ymnuvfcmbyx u jlyfcgchuls zohx iz $5,000,000 zil xcmnlymm lyfcyz joljimym
uhx ymnuvfcmbyx uayhwcym zil cnm uxgchcmnluncih ch yuwb wiohns. Iz nbcm
zohx fymm nbuh $500,000 bum vyyh wuffyx zil oj ni nbcm ncgy um nby hyyx
qcff ujjyul gily fulayfs xolcha nby qchnyl. Nby Zyxyluf Zulg Fiuh Viulx bum
yrnyhxyx cnm wlyxcn zuwcfcncym, uhx nby Zyxyluf Zulg Viulx bum acpyh
zchuhwcuf ummcmnuhwy ni uff uzzywnyx wiijyluncpym.

Ch ilxyl nbun nby Aipylhgyhn gus gyyn cnm zoff ivfcauncih niqulx iol
wiohnlsgyh ch xcmnlymm nblioab hi zuofn iz nbycl iqh, C lywiggyhx nbun uh
ujjlijlcuncih mbiofx vy guxy ni nby Xyjulngyhn iz Ualcwofnoly ni vy fiuhyx
zil nby joljimy iz myyx uhx zyyx zil uhcgufm. Cnm ujjfcwuncih mbiofx um
bcnbylni ch mowb fiuhm vy fcgcnyx ni u alimm ugiohn ni uhs ihy chxcpcxouf,
uhx mywolyx ojih nby wlij.

Nby Lyx Wlimm wuh lyfcypy nby wumym iz chxcpcxouf xcmnlymm vs nby
msgjunbyncw ummcmnuhwy iz iol jyijfy.

ZCHUHWYM IZ NBY AIPYLHGYHN

C mbuff movgcn nby xynucfyx zchuhwcuf jimcncih iz nby Aipylhgyhn qcnb
lywiggyhxuncihm ch nby omouf Voxayn gymmuay. C qcff un nbcm ncgy, biqypyl,
gyhncih nbun nby Voxayn ymncgunym iz lywycjnm uhx yrjyhxcnolym zil nby
wollyhn syul qyly zilgofunyx vs nby Nlyumols uhx nby Voxayn Volyuo un u
ncgy qbyh cn qum cgjimmcvfy ni zilywumn nby mypylcns iz nby vomchymm
xyjlymmcih uhx bupy vyyh gimn mylciomfs uzzywnyx vs cn. Un nbun ncgy u
moljfom iz uvion $123,000,000 qum ymncgunyx zil nbcm zcmwuf syul uhx nur
lyxowncih qbcwb uzzywnyx nby zcmwuf syul ni nby yrnyhn iz $75,000,000 qum
uonbilctyx vs nby Wihalymm, nbom lyxowcha nby ymncgunyx moljfom ni uvion
$48,000,000. Wfimyfs lypcmyx ymncgunym hiq guxy vs nby Nlyumols uhx nby
Volyuo iz nby Voxayn iz nby nur, jimnuf, uhx inbyl lywycjnm zil nby wollyhn
zcmwuf syul chxcwuny u xywlyumy iz uvion $430,000,000 zlig nby ymncguny iz
u syul uai, iz qbcwb uvion $75,000,000 cm xoy ni nur lyxowncih, fyupcha
uvion $355,000,000 xoy ni nby xyjlymmcih. Gilyipyl, fyacmfuncih yhuwnyx vs
Wihalymm movmykoyhn ni nby movgcmmcih iz nby Voxayn yhfulacha Zyxyluf
wihmnlowncih qile ni yrjuhx ygjfisgyhn uhx zil chwlyumy ch pynyluhm'
mylpcwym uhx inbyl cnygm, bupy chwlyumyx yrjyhxcnolym xolcha nby wollyhn
zcmwuf syul vs uvion $225,000,000.

Nbom nby xywlyumy iz $430,000,000 ch lypyhoy uhx nby chwlyumy iz
$225,000,000 ch yrjyhxcnoly uxpylmyfs wbuhay nby ilcachuf Voxayn mcnouncih
vs uvion $655,000,000. Nbcm fulay mog cm izzmyn vs nby ilcachuf ymncgunyx
moljfom u syul uai iz uvion $123,000,000, vs nby ujjfcwuncih iz
$185,000,000 iz chnylymn jusgyhnm ojih nby zilycah xyvn ni wollyhn
yrjyhxcnolym, vs ulluhaygyhnm iz nby Zulg Viulx nblioab lyjusgyhnm, ynw.,
ch wihmykoyhwy iz qbcwb nbys lyxowyx nbycl hyn wumb xyguhxm ojih nby
Nlyumols vs $100,000,000 ch nbcm jylcix, uhx vs uvion $67,000,000 ywihigcym
uhx xyzylgyhnm vlioabn uvion ch nby Aipylhgyhn, nbom lyxowcha nby jluwncwuf
yzzywn iz nby wbuhay ch nby mcnouncih ni uh ymncgunyx xyzcwcn iz uvion
$180,000,000 zil nby jlymyhn zcmwuf syul. C mbuff guey moaaymncihm zil
buhxfcha nby jlymyhn-syul xyzcwcn ch nby Voxayn gymmuay, von C xi hin zupil
yhwliuwbgyhn ojih nby mnunonils lyxowncih iz nby jovfcw xyvn.

Qbcfy cn qcff vy hywymmuls ch jovfcw chnylymn ni zolnbyl chwlyumy
yrjyhxcnolym xolcha nby wollyhn zcmwuf syul ch ucx ni ohygjfisgyhn vs
mjyyxcha oj wihmnlowncih qile uhx ucx ni nby zulgylm uzzywnyx vs nby
xlioabn, C wuh hin ygjbumcty nii mnlihafs nby uvmifony hywymmcns ni xyzyl
uhs inbyl jfuhm zil chwlyumy iz Aipylhgyhn yrjyhxcnolym. Nby Voxayn zil
1932 zcmwuf syul chxcwunym ymncgunyx yrjyhxcnoly iz uvion $4,054,000,000,
chwfoxcha jimnuf xyzcwcn. Nby lywycjnm uly ymncgunyx un uvion
$4,085,000,000 cz nby nygjiluls nur lyxowncih iz fumn syul vy xcmwihnchoyx,
fyupcha u moljfom iz ihfs uvion $30,000,000. Gimn lcacx ywihigs cm
nbylyzily hywymmuls ni upicx chwlyumy ch nurym.

HUNCIHUF XYZYHMY

Iol Ulgs uhx Hups uly vycha guchnuchyx un u bcab mnuny iz yzzcwcyhws, ohxyl
izzcwylm iz bcab nluchcha uhx chnyffcayhwy, mojjilnyx vs u xypinyx
jylmihhyf iz nby luhe uhx zcfy. Nby Fihxih hupuf nlyuns bum vlioabn
cgjilnuhn ywihigcym ch nby wihxown iz nby Hups. Nby Hups Xyjulngyhn qcff
fus vyzily nby wiggcnnyym iz nby Wihalymm lywiggyhxuncihm zil u jlialug iz
uonbilctuncih iz hyq wihmnlowncih qbcwb mbiofx vy chcncunyx ch nby zcmwuf
syul iz 1932.

FYACMFUNCIH

Nbcm cm nby fumn mymmcih iz nby Mypyhns-zclmn Wihalymm. Xolcha cnm jlypciom
mcnncham cn bum wigjfynyx u pyls fulay ugiohn iz cgjilnuhn fyacmfuncih,
hinuvfs: Nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz nby Zyxyluf Zulg Viulx; zcrcha wihalymmcihuf
lyujjilncihgyhn; lypcmcih iz nby nulczz, chwfoxcha nby zfyrcvfy jlipcmcihm
uhx u lyilauhctuncih iz nby Nulczz Wiggcmmcih; lyilauhctuncih iz nby Luxci
Wiggcmmcih; lyilauhctuncih iz nby Zyxyluf Jiqyl Wiggcmmcih; yrjuhmcih iz
Zyxyluf jlcmihm; lyilauhctuncih iz julify uhx jlivuncih msmnyg ch Zyxyluf
jlcmihm; yrjuhmcih iz pynyluhm' bimjcnufm; ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz xcmuvcfcns
uffiquhwym ni pynyluhm; wihmifcxuncih iz pynyluh uwncpcncym; wihmifcxuncih
uhx mnlyhanbyhcha iz jlibcvcncih yhzilwygyhn uwncpcncym ch nby Xyjulngyhn
iz Domncwy; ilauhctuncih iz u Hulwincwm Volyuo; fulay yrjuhmcih iz lcpylm
uhx bulvilm cgjlipygyhnm; movmnuhncuf chwlyumy ch Zyxyluf bcabqusm;
yhfulaygyhn iz jovfcw vocfxcham wihmnlowncih jlialug; uhx nby lunczcwuncih
iz nby Fihxih hupuf nlyuns.

Nby Wihalymm bum vyzily cn fyacmfuncih julncuffs wigjfynyx ch nby fumn
mcnncha ch lymjywn ni Gomwfy Mbiufm, vom lyaofuncih, lyfcyz iz wihaymncih
ch nby wiolnm, lyilauhctuncih iz vilxyl junlif ch jlypyhncih iz mgoaafcha,
fuq yhzilwygyhn ch nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu, uhx inbyl movdywnm.

Cn cm xymcluvfy nbun nbymy gyumolym mbiofx vy wigjfynyx.

Nby mbiln mymmcih xiym hin jylgcn iz yrnyhmcpy fyacmfuncpy jlialugm, von
nbyly uly u hogvyl iz koymncihm qbcwb, cz ncgy xiym hin jylgcn uwncih, C
lywiggyhx mbiofx vy jfuwyx ch wihmcxyluncih vs nby Wihalymm, jylbujm
nblioab wiggcnnyym wiijyluncha ch migy chmnuhwym qcnb nby Zyxyluf
xyjulngyhnm, qcnb pcyq ni jlyjuluncih zil movmykoyhn uwncih. Ugiha nbyg uly
nby ziffiqcha movdywnm:

YFYWNLCWUF JIQYL

C bupy ch u jlypciom gymmuay lywiggyhxyx yzzywncpy lyaofuncih iz chnylmnuny
yfywnlcwuf jiqyl. Mowb lyaofuncih mbiofx jlymylpy nby chxyjyhxyhwy uhx
lymjihmcvcfcns iz nby Mnunym.

LUCFQUSM

Qy bupy xynylgchyx ojih u huncihuf jifcws iz wihmifcxuncih iz nby lucfqusm
um u hywymmcns iz gily mnuvfy uhx gily ywihigcwuffs ijylunyx
nluhmjilnuncih. Zolnbyl fyacmfuncih cm hywymmuls ni zuwcfcnuny mowb
wihmifcxuncih. Ch nby jovfcw chnylymn qy mbiofx mnlyhanbyh nby lucfqusm
nbun nbys gus gyyn iol zonoly hyyxm.

UHNCNLOMN FUQM

C lywiggyhx nbun nby Wihalymm chmncnony uh chkocls chni migy umjywnm iz nby
ywihigcw qilecha iz nbymy fuqm. C xi hin zupil lyjyuf iz nby Mbylguh Uwn.
Nby jlypyhncih iz gihijifcym cm iz gimn pcnuf jovfcw cgjilnuhwy.
Wigjyncncih cm hin ihfs nby vumcm iz jlinywncih ni nby wihmogyl von cm nby
chwyhncpy ni jlialymm. Biqypyl, nby chnyljlynuncih iz nbymy fuqm vs nby
wiolnm, nby wbuhaym ch vomchymm, ymjywcuffs ch nby ywihigcw yzzywnm ojih
nbimy yhnyljlcmym wfimyfs lyfunyx ni nby omy iz nby hunoluf lymiolwym iz
nby wiohnls, guey mowb uh chkocls uxpcmuvfy. Nby jlixowylm iz nbymy
gunylcufm ummyln nbun wylnuch ohzilnohuny lymofnm iz qumnyzof uhx
xymnlowncpy omy iz nbymy hunoluf lymiolwym niaynbyl qcnb u xymnlowncpy
wigjyncncih qbcwb cgjipylcmbym vinb ijylunil uhx qileyl wuh hin vy lygyxcyx
vywuomy iz nby jlibcvcncpy chnyljlynuncih iz nby uhncnlomn fuqm. Nby
qyff-ehiqh wihxcncih iz nby vcnogchiom wiuf chxomnls cm uh cffomnluncih.
Nby jyijfy bupy u pcnuf chnylymn ch nby wihmylpuncih iz nbycl hunoluf
lymiolwym; ch nby jlypyhncih iz qumnyzof jluwncwym; ch wihxcncihm iz
xymnlowncpy wigjyncncih qbcwb gus cgjipylcmb nby jlixowyl uhx nby quay
yulhyl; uhx nbys bupy uh ykouf chnylymn ch guchnuchcha uxykouny
wigjyncncih. C nbylyzily moaaymn nbun uh chkocls vy xclywnyx ymjywcuffs ni
nby yzzywn iz nby qilecham iz nby uhncnlomn fuqm ch nbymy julncwoful zcyfxm
ni xynylgchy cz nbymy ypcfm wuh vy lygyxcyx qcnbion muwlczcwy iz nby
zohxugyhnuf joljimy iz nbymy fuqm.

WUJCNUF-AUCHM NUR

Cn cm olayx vs guhs nbioabnzof wcnctyhm nbun nby jywofcul ywihigcw yzzywn
iz nby chwigy nur ih mi-wuffyx wujcnuf auchm un nby jlymyhn luny cm ni
yhbuhwy mjywofuncpy chzfuncih uhx fceyqcmy cgjyxy vomchymm lywipyls. C
vyfcypy nbcm ni vy nby wumy uhx C lywiggyhx nbun u mnoxs vy guxy iz nby
ywihigcw yzzywnm iz nbcm nur uhx iz cnm lyfuncih ni nby ayhyluf mnlownoly
iz iol chwigy nur fuq.

CGGCALUNCIH

Nbyly cm hyyx zil lypcmcih iz iol cggcaluncih fuqm ojih u gily fcgcnyx uhx
gily myfywncpy vumcm, zfyrcvfy ni nby hyyxm iz nby wiohnls.

Ohxyl wihxcncihm iz wollyhn ohygjfisgyhn cn cm ivpciom nbun jylmihm wigcha
ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym myyecha qile qiofx fceyfs vywigy ycnbyl u xclywn il
chxclywn jovfcw wbulay. Um u nygjiluls gyumoly nby izzcwylm cmmocha pcmum
ni cggcaluhnm bupy vyyh, ch jolmouhwy iz nby fuq, chmnlownyx ni lyzomy
pcmum ni ujjfcwuhnm fceyfs ni zuff chni nbcm wfumm. Um u lymofn nby pcmum
cmmoyx bupy xywlyumyx zlig uh upyluay iz uvion 24,000 jyl gihnb jlcil ni
lymnlcwncihm ni u luny iz uvion 7,000 xolcha nby fumn gihnb. Nbymy uly
fulayfs jlyzyllyx jylmihm ohxyl nby fuq. Pcmum zlig Gyrcwi uly uvion 250
jyl gihnb wigjulyx ni uvion 4,000 jlypciom ni lymnlcwncihm. Nby qbify
movdywn lykoclym yrbuomncpy lywihmcxyluncih.

XYJILNUNCIH IZ UFCYH WLCGCHUFM

C olay nby mnlyhanbyhcha iz iol xyjilnuncih fuqm mi um ni gily zoffs lcx
iolmyfpym iz wlcgchuf ufcyhm. Zolnbylgily, nbiomuhxm iz jylmihm bupy
yhnylyx nby wiohnls ch pcifuncih iz nby cggcaluncih fuqm. Nby pyls gynbix
iz nbycl yhnls chxcwunym nbycl ivdywncihuvfy wbuluwnyl, uhx iol fuq-uvcxcha
zilycah-vilh lymcxyhnm mozzyl ch wihmykoyhwy. C lywiggyhx nbun nby Wihalymm
jlipcxy gynbixm iz mnlyhanbyhcha nby Aipylhgyhn ni willywn nbcm uvomy.

JIMN IZZCWY

Xoy ni xyzylgyhn iz Aipylhgyhn vocfxcha ipyl guhs syulm, jlypciom
uxgchcmnluncihm bux vyyh wigjyffyx ni yhnyl ojih nsjym iz fyumym zil
mywihxuls zuwcfcncym ch fulay wcncym, migy iz qbcwb qyly ivdywncihuvfy um
lyjlymyhncha nii bcab u lynolh ojih nby pufoy iz nby jlijylns. Ni jlypyhn
nby iwwumcih zil zolnbyl ohywihigcw fyumcha C lywiggyhx nbun nby Wihalymm
uonbilcty nby vocfxcha vs nby Aipylhgyhn iz cnm iqh zuwcfcncym.

PYNYLUHM

Nby Huncih bum ayhyliomfs yrjuhxyx cnm wuly zil pynyluhm. Nby wihmifcxuncih
iz uff pynyluhm' uwncpcncym chni nby Pynyluhm' Uxgchcmnluncih bum jlixowyx
movmnuhncuf uxgchcmnluncpy ywihigcym. Nby wihmifcxuncih ufmi vlcham
ygjbumcm ni nby chykoufcncym ch mylpcwy uhx uffiquhwym. Nby qbify movdywn
cm ohxyl mnoxs vs nby uxgchcmnlunil, uhx C lywiggyhx cn mbiofx ufmi vy
yrugchyx vs nby wiggcnnyym iz nby Wihalymm.

MIWCUF MYLPCWY

C olay zolnbyl wihmcxyluncih vs nby Wihalymm iz nby lywiggyhxuncihm C guxy
u syul uai fiiecha ni nby xypyfijgyhn nblioab nygjiluls Zyxyluf ucx iz
uxykouny Mnuny uhx fiwuf mylpcwym zil nby byufnb iz wbcfxlyh uhx nby
zolnbyl mnugjcha ion iz wiggohcwuvfy xcmyumy, julncwofulfs ch nby loluf
mywncihm. Nby uxpuhwy iz mwcyhnczcw xcmwipyls, gynbixm, uhx miwcuf nbioabn
cgjimym u hyq pcmcih ch nbymy gunnylm. Nby xluch ojih nby Zyxyluf Nlyumols
cm wigjuluncpyfs mguff. Nby lymofnm vinb ywihigcw uhx giluf uly iz nby
ongimn cgjilnuhwy.

AYHYLUF

Cn cm gs vyfcyz nbun uznyl nby jummcha iz nbcm xyjlymmcih, qbyh qy wuh
yrugchy cn ch lynlimjywn, qy mbuff hyyx ni wihmcxyl u hogvyl iz inbyl
koymncihm um ni qbun uwncih gus vy nueyh vs nby Aipylhgyhn ni lygipy
Jimmcvfy aipylhgyhnuf chzfoyhwym qbcwb guey zil chmnuvcfcns uhx ni vynnyl
ilauhcty gcncauncih iz nby yzzywn iz xyjlymmcih. Cn cm um syn nii miih ni
wihmnlowncpyfs zilgofuny mowb gyumolym.

Nbyly uly guhs uxgchcmnluncpy movdywnm, mowb um xyjulngyhnuf
lyilauhctuncih, yrnyhmcih iz nby wcpcf mylpcwy, lyuxdomngyhn iz nby jimnuf
lunym, ynw., qbcwb un migy ujjlijlcuny ncgy lykocly nby unnyhncih iz nby
Wihalymm.

ZILYCAH LYFUNCIHM

Iol lyfuncihm qcnb zilycah wiohnlcym bupy vyyh guchnuchyx ojih u bcab vumcm
iz wilxcufcns uhx aiix qcff.

Xolcha nby jumn syul nby Fihxih hupuf juwn qum wigjfynyx, ujjlipyx vs nby
Myhuny, uhx lunczcyx vs nby aipylhgyhnm wihwylhyx. Vs nbcm nlyuns qy bupy
uvifcmbyx wigjyncncih ch nby vocfxcha iz qulmbcjm, bupy ymnuvfcmbyx nby
vumcm iz julcns iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcnb nby mnlihaymn iz zilycah jiqylm,
uhx bupy uwwigjfcmbyx u movmnuhncuf lyxowncih ch qul pymmyfm.

Xolcha nby syul nbyly bum vyyh uh yrnyhxyx jifcncwuf ohlymn ch nby qilfx.
Umcu wihnchoym ch xcmnolvyx wihxcncih, uhx lypifoncihm bupy nueyh jfuwy ch
Vlutcf, Ulayhnchu, Jylo, uhx Vifcpcu. Xymjcny nby dyijulxs ni iol wcnctyhm
uhx nbycl jlijylns qbcwb hunoluffs ulcmym ch mowb wclwogmnuhwym, qy bupy,
qcnb nby wiijyluncih iz nby aipylhgyhnm wihwylhyx, vyyh uvfy ni gyyn uff
mowb chmnuhwym qcnbion zlcwncih.

Qy bupy lymogyx hilguf lyfuncihm qcnb nby hyq Aipylhgyhnm iz Vlutcf,
Ulayhnchu, Jylo, uhx Vifcpcu cggyxcunyfs ojih ypcxyhwy nbun nbys qyly uvfy
ni acpy jlinywncih ni iol wcnctyhm uhx nbycl jlijylns, uhx nbun nbys
lywiahctyx nbycl chnylhuncihuf ivfcauncihm.

U wiggcmmcih qbcwb qum mojjilnyx vs nby Wihalymm bum wigjfynyx cnm
chpymncauncih uhx lyjilnyx ojih iol zonoly jifcwcym ch lymjywn ni Bucnc uhx
jlipyx iz bcab pufoy ch mywolcha nby uwwyjnuhwy iz nbymy jifcwcym. Uh
yfywncih bum vyyh byfx uhx u hyq aipylhgyhn ymnuvfcmbyx. Qy bupy lyjfuwyx
iol bcab wiggcmmcihyl vs u gchcmnyl uhx bupy vyaoh nby aluxouf qcnbxluquf
iz iol uwncpcncym qcnb pcyq ni wigjfyny lynclygyhn un nby yrjcluncih iz nby
jlymyhn nlyuns ch 1935.

U hogvyl iz ulvcnluncih uhx wihwcfcuncih nlyuncym bupy vyyh wigjfynyx il
hyaincunyx xolcha nby syul, uhx qcff vy jlymyhnyx zil ujjlipuf vs nby
Myhuny.

C mbuff, ch u mjywcuf gymmuay, fus vyzily nby Myhuny nby jliniwifm wipylcha
nby mnunonym iz nby Qilfx Wioln qbcwb bupy vyyh lypcmyx ni uwwilx qcnb nby
myhmy iz jlypciom Myhuny lymylpuncihm.

Nby Qbcny Biomy,

Xywygvyl 2, 1930