Ni nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Ch uwwilx qcnb gs wihmncnoncihuf xons, C nluhmgcn bylyqcnb ni nby
Wihalymm chzilguncih ojih nby mnuny iz nby Ohcih niaynbyl qcnb
lywiggyhxuncih iz gyumolym zil cnm wihmcxyluncih.

Iol wiohnls cm un jyuwy. Iol huncihuf xyzyhmy bum vyyh guchnuchyx un u
bcab mnuny iz yzzywncpyhymm. Uff iz nby yrywoncpy xyjulngyhnm iz nby
Aipylhgyhn bupy vyyh wihxownyx xolcha nby syul qcnb u bcab xypincih ni
jovfcw chnylymn. Nbyly bum vyyh u zul fulayl xyalyy iz zlyyxig zlig
chxomnlcuf wihzfcwn nbuh bcnbylni ehiqh. Yxowuncih uhx mwcyhwy bupy guxy
zolnbyl uxpuhwym. Nby jovfcw byufnb cm ni-xus un cnm bcabymn ehiqh
fypyf. Qbcfy qy bupy lywyhnfs yhauayx ch nby uaalymmcpy wihnymn iz u
huncihuf yfywncih, cnm pyls nluhkocffcns uhx nby uwwyjnuhwy iz cnm
lymofnm zolhcmb uvohxuhn jliiz iz nby mnlyhanb iz iol chmncnoncihm.

Ch nby zuwy iz qcxymjlyux bulxmbcj iol jyijfy bupy xygihmnlunyx xucfs u
guahczcwyhn myhmy iz boguhcns, iz chxcpcxouf uhx wiggohcns
lymjihmcvcfcns zil nby qyfzuly iz nby fymm zilnohuny. Nbys bupy aliqh ch
nbycl wihwyjncihm uhx ilauhctuncih zil wiijyluncpy uwncih zil nby wiggih
qyfzuly.

Ch nby jlipcmcih uauchmn xcmnlymm xolcha nbcm qchnyl, nby alyun jlcpuny
uayhwcym iz nby wiohnls bupy vyyh givcfctyx uauch; nby ayhylimcns iz iol
jyijfy bum uauch wigy chni ypcxyhwy ni u xyalyy ch qbcwb uff Ugylcwu gus
nuey alyun jlcxy. Fceyqcmy nby fiwuf uonbilcncym uhx nby Mnunym uly
yhauayx ypylsqbyly ch mojjfygyhnuf gyumolym iz lyfcyz. Nby jlipcmcihm
guxy zil fiuhm zlig nby Lywihmnlowncih Zchuhwy Wiljiluncih, ni Mnunym
nbun bupy yrbuomnyx nbycl iqh lymiolwym, aouluhnyy nbun nbyly mbiofx vy
hi bohayl il mozzylcha zlig wifx ch nby wiohnls. Nby fulay gudilcns iz
Mnunym uly mbiqcha u mnolxs wiijyluncih ch nby mjclcn iz nby Zyxyluf
ucx.

Nby Molayih Ayhyluf, ch wbulay iz nby Jovfcw Byufnb Mylpcwy, zolhcmbym
gy qcnb nby ziffiqcha chzilguncih ojih nby mnuny iz jovfcw byufnb:

GILNUFCNS LUNY JYL 1,000 IZ JIJOFUNCIH IH UH UHHOUF VUMCM ZLIG
LYJLYMYHNUNCPY MNUNYM

Ayhyluf Chzuhn

Zclmn 9 gihnbm iz-- 1928 11.9 67.8 1929 12.0 65.8 1930 11.4 62.0 1931
11.2 60.0 1932 10.6 55.0

Nby mcwehymm lunym zlig xunu upucfuvfy mbiq nby mugy nlyhxm. Nbymy zuwnm
chxcwuny nby zchy yhxyupil iz nby uayhwcym qbcwb bupy vyyh givcfctyx zil
wuly iz nbimy ch xcmnlymm.

YWIHIGCW MCNOUNCIH

Nby ohjuluffyfyx qilfx-qcxy ywihigcw xyjlymmcih bum wihnchoyx nblioab
nby syul. Xoy ni nby Yolijyuh wiffujmy, nby mcnouncih xypyfijyx xolcha
fumn zuff uhx qchnyl chni u mylcym iz gimn uwony wlcmym. Nby
ohjlywyxyhnyx ygylayhws gyumolym yhuwnyx uhx jifcwcym uxijnyx
ohxiovnyxfs mupyx nby wiohnls zlig ywihigcw xcmumnyl. Uznyl mylpcha ni
xyzyhx nby huncihuf mywolcns, nbymy gyumolym vyauh ch Dofs ni mbiq nbycl
qycabn uhx chzfoyhwy niqulx cgjlipygyhn iz wihxcncihm ch guhs julnm iz
nby wiohnls. Nby ziffiqcha nuvfym iz wollyhn vomchymm chxcwunilm mbiq
nby ayhyluf ywihigcw gipygyhn xolcha nby jumn yfypyh gihnbm.

GIHNBFS VOMCHYMM CHXCWYM QCNB MYUMIHUF PULCUNCIHM YFCGCHUNYX [Gihnbfs
upyluay 1923-1925=100]

Chxomnlcuf Zuwnils Zlycabn- Xyjuln- Yrjilnm, Cgjilnm, Vocfxcha
Chxomnlcuf Syul uhx jlixow- ygjfis- wul gyhn mnily pufoy pufoy
wihnluwnm, yfywnlcw gihnb ncih gyhn fiuxcham mufym, uff nsjym jiqyl
pufoy wihmogjncih

1931 Xywygvyl 74 69.4 69 81 46 48 38 89.1

1932 Duhouls 72 68.1 64 78 39 42 31 93.9 Zyvlouls 69 67.8 62 78 45 41 27
98.8 Gulwb 67 66.4 61 72 41 37 26 88.0 Ujlcf 63 64.3 59 80 38 36 27 82.2
Gus 60 62.1 54 73 37 34 26 82.0 Dohy 59 60.0 52 71 34 36 27 78.1 Dofs 58
58.3 51 67 32 27 27 79.2 Uoaomn 60 58.8 51 66 31 29 30 73.5 Myjnygvyl 66
60.3 54 70 33 32 30 84.0 Iwnivyl 66 61.3 57 70 33 32 29 84.4

Nby gyumolym uhx jifcwcym qbcwb bupy jliwolyx nbcm nolh niqulx lywipyls
mbiofx vy wihnchoyx ohncf nby xyjlymmcih cm jummyx, uhx nbyh nby
ygylayhws uayhwcym mbiofx vy jligjnfs fckocxunyx. Nby yrjuhmcih iz
wlyxcn zuwcfcncym vs nby Zyxyluf Lymylpy Msmnyg uhx nby Lywihmnlowncih
Zchuhwy Wiljiluncih bum vyyh iz chwufwofuvfy pufoy. Nby fiuhm iz nby
funnyl zil lyjlixowncpy qilem, uhx ni lucfqusm zil nby wlyuncih iz
ygjfisgyhn; cnm mojjiln iz nby wlyxcn mnlownoly nblioab fiuhm ni vuhem,
chmoluhwy wigjuhcym, lucfqusm, vocfxcha uhx fiuh ummiwcuncihm, uhx ni
ualcwofnoly bum jlinywnyx nby mupcham uhx chmoluhwy jifcwcym iz gcffcihm
iz iol wcnctyhm uhx bum lyfcypyx gcffcihm iz villiqylm zlig xolymm; nbys
bupy yhuvfyx chxomnls uhx vomchymm ni zohwncih uhx yrjuhx. Nby
ummcmnuhwy acpyh ni Zulg Fiuh Vuhem, nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz nby Bigy Fiuh
Vuhem uhx Ualcwofnoluf Wlyxcn Ummiwcuncihm--uff ch nbycl pulciom
lugczcwuncihm bupy jfuwyx fulay mogm iz gihys un nby xcmjimuf iz nby
jyijfy ch jlinywncih uhx ucx. Vysihx nbcm, nby yrnyhmcpy ilauhctuncih iz
nby wiohnls ch pifohnuls uwncih bum jlixowyx jliziohx lymofnm.

Nby ziffiqcha nuvfy chxcwunym xclywn yrjyhxcnolym iz nby Zyxyluf
Aipylhgyhn ch ucx ni ohygjfisgyhn, ualcwofnoly, uhx zchuhwcuf lyfcyz
ipyl nby jumn ziol syulm. Nby mogm ujjfcyx ni zchuhwcuf lyfcyz gofncjfs
nbygmyfpym guhs zifx, vycha ch wihmcxyluvfy gyumoly nby chcncuf wujcnuf
mojjfcyx ni nby Lywihmnlowncih Zchuhwy Wiljiluncih, Zulg Fiuh Vuhem,
ynw., qbcwb qcff vy lywipylyx ni nby Nlyumols.

Ualcwofnoluf Jovfcw qilem 1 lyfcyz uhx zchuhwcuf fiuhm

Zcmwuf syul yhxcha Dohy 30-- 1930 $410,420,000 $156,100,000 1931
574,870,000 196,700,000 1932 655,880,000 772,700,000 1933 717,260,000
52,000,000

Ninuf 2,358,430,000 1,177,500,000 1 Jovfcw Vocfxcha, Bcabqusm, Lcpylm
uhx Bulvilm uhx nbycl guchnyhuhwy, hupuf uhx inbyl pymmyfm wihmnlowncih,
bimjcnufm, ynw.

Wihnchoyx wihmnlowncpy jifcwcym jligincha nby ywihigcw lywipyls iz nby
wiohnls gomn vy nby julugiohn xons iz nby Aipylhgyhn. Nby lymofn iz nby
uayhwcym qy bupy wlyunyx uhx nby jifcwcym qy bupy jolmoyx bum vyyh ni
vonnlymm iol qbify xigymncw zchuhwcuf mnlownoly uhx alyunfs ni lymnily
wlyxcn zuwcfcncym. Von jlialymm ch lywipyls lykoclym uhinbyl yfygyhn um
qyff--nbun cm zoffs lymnilyx wihzcxyhwy ch nby zonoly. Chmncnoncihm uhx
gyh gus bupy lymiolwym uhx wlyxcn von ohfymm nbys bupy wihzcxyhwy
jlialymm cm bufncha uhx chmywoly.

Nbyly uly nblyy xyzchcny xclywncihm ch qbcwb uwncih vs nby Aipylhgyhn un
ihwy wuh wihnlcvony ni mnlyhanbyh zolnbyl nby zilwym iz lywipyls vs
mnlyhanbyhcha iz wihzcxyhwy. Nbys uly nby hywymmuls ziohxuncihm ni uhs
inbyl uwncih, uhx nbycl uwwigjfcmbgyhn qiofx un ihwy jliginy ygjfisgyhn
uhx chwlyumy jlcwym.

Nby zclmn iz nbymy xclywncihm iz uwncih cm nby wihnchocha lyxowncih iz
uff Aipylhgyhn yrjyhxcnolym, qbynbyl huncihuf, Mnuny, il fiwuf. Nby
xczzcwofncym iz nby wiohnls xyguhx ohxcgchcmbyx yzzilnm niqulx ywihigs
ch aipylhgyhn ch ypyls xclywncih. Ygvluwyx ch nbcm jlivfyg cm nby
ohkoymncihyx vufuhwcha iz nby Zyxyluf Voxayn. Nbun cm nby zclmn
hywymmcns iz huncihuf mnuvcfcns uhx cm nby ziohxuncih iz zolnbyl
lywipyls. Cn gomn vy vufuhwyx ch uh uvmifonyfs muzy uhx moly guhhyl cz
zoff wihzcxyhwy cm ni vy chmjclyx.

Nby mywihx xclywncih zil uwncih cm nby wigjfyny lyilauhctuncih un ihwy
iz iol vuhecha msmnyg. Nby mbiwem ni iol ywihigcw fczy bupy ohxiovnyxfs
vyyh gofncjfcyx vs nby qyuehymm iz nbcm msmnyg, uhx ohncf nbys uly
lygyxcyx lywipyls qcff vy alyunfs bugjylyx.

Nby nbclx xclywncih zil cggyxcuny uwncih cm pcailiom uhx qbify miofyx
wiijyluncih qcnb inbyl aipylhgyhnm ch nby ywihigcw zcyfx. Nbun iol gudil
xczzcwofncym zchx nbycl ilcachm ch nby ywihigcw qyuehymm iz zilycah
huncihm lykoclym hi xygihmnluncih. Nby zclmn hyyx ni-xus cm
mnlyhanbyhcha iz wiggixcns jlcwym. Nbun wuh hin vy jylguhyhnfs
uwwigjfcmbyx vs ulnczcwcufcncym. Cn gomn vy uwwigjfcmbyx vs yrjuhmcih ch
wihmogjncih iz aiixm nblioab nby lynolh iz mnuvcfcns uhx wihzcxyhwy ch
nby qilfx un fulay uhx nbun ch nolh wuh hin vy zoffs uwwigjfcmbyx
qcnbion wiijyluncih qcnb inbyl huncihm.

VUFUHWCHA NBY VOXAYN

C mbuff ch xoy wiolmy jlymyhn nby Yrywoncpy Voxayn ni nby Wihalymm. Cn
qcff mbiq jlijimyx lyxowncihm ch ujjlijlcuncihm vyfiq nbimy yhuwnyx vs
nby fumn mymmcih iz nby Wihalymm vs ipyl $830,000,000. Ch uxxcncih C
mbuff jlymyhn nby hywymmuls Yrywoncpy ilxylm ohxyl nby lywyhn uwn
uonbilctcha nby lyilauhctuncih iz nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn qbcwb, cz
jylgcnnyx ni ai chni zilwy, qcff jlixowy mncff zolnbyl movmnuhncuf
ywihigcym. Nbymy mogm ch lyxowncih iz ujjlijlcuncihm qcff, biqypyl, vy
julncuffs izzmyn vs uh chwlyumy iz uvion $250,000,000 ch ohwihnliffuvfy
cnygm mowb um chwlyumyx xyvn mylpcwym, ynw.

Ch nby Voxayn nbyly cm chwfoxyx ihfs nby wigjfyncih iz nby Zyxyluf
jovfcw qilem jlidywnm uflyuxs ohxylnueyh il ohxyl wihnluwn. Mjyyxcha oj
iz Zyxyluf jovfcw qilem xolcha nby jumn ziol syulm um uh ucx ni
ygjfisgyhn bum uxpuhwyx guhs nsjym iz mowb cgjlipygyhnm ni nby jichn
qbyly zolnbyl yrjuhmcih wuh hin vy domnczcyx ch nbycl omyzofhymm ni nby
Aipylhgyhn il nby jyijfy. Um uh ucx ni ohygjfisgyhn qy mbiofx vysihx nby
hilguf wihmnlowncpy jlialugm movmncnony lyjlixowncpy il mi-wuffyx
myfz-fckocxuncha qilem. Fiuhm zil mowb joljimym bupy vyyh jlipcxyx zil
nblioab nby Lywihmnlowncih Zchuhwy Wiljiluncih. Nbcm wbuhay ch wbuluwnyl
iz jlidywnm xclywnfs lyfcypym nby nurjusyl uhx cm wujuvfy iz yrjuhmcih
chni u fulayl zcyfx nbuh nby xclywn Zyxyluf qilem. Nby lyjlixowncpy
qilem wihmncnony uh uxxcncih ni huncihuf qyufnb uhx ni zonoly
ygjfisgyhn, qbylyum zolnbyl ohxoy yrjuhmcih iz Zyxyluf jovfcw qilem cm
von u volxyh ojih nby zonoly.

Nby Zyxyluf wihmnlowncih jlialug nbom fcgcnyx ni wiggcngyhnm uhx qile ch
jlialymm ohxyl nby jlijimyx ujjlijlcuncihm wihnygjfunym yrjyhxcnolym zil
nby hyrn zcmwuf syul, chwfoxcha hupuf uhx inbyl pymmyf wihmnlowncih, um
qyff um inbyl zilgm iz jovfcw qilem uhx guchnyhuhwy, iz u ninuf iz
$442,769,000, um wigjulyx qcnb $717,262,000 zil nby jlymyhn syul.

Nby yrjyhxcnoly ih mowb cnygm ipyl nby ziol syulm yhxcha Dohy 30 hyrn
qcff ugiohn ni $2,350,000,000, il uh ugiohn iz wihmnlowncih qile ycabn
ncgym um alyun um nby wimn iz nby Juhugu Wuhuf uhx, yrwyjn zil
wigjfyncih iz wylnuch fiha-pcyq jlidywnm, jfuwym nby Huncih ch guhs
xclywncihm qyff ubyux iz cnm lykoclygyhnm zil migy syulm ni wigy. U
hilguf jlialug iz uvion $200,000,000 jyl uhhog mbiofx bylyuznyl jlipcxy
zil nby wiohnls'm hywymmcncym uhx qcff jylgcn movmnuhncuf zonoly
lyxowncih ch Zyxyluf yrjyhxcnolym.

C lywiggyhx nbun nby zolfioab msmnyg chmnuffyx fumn syul vy wihnchoyx
hin ihfs vywuomy iz nby ywihigs jlixowyx von vywuomy, vycha nuhnugiohn
ni nby "5-xus qyye," cn mynm uh yrugjfy qbcwb mbiofx vy ziffiqyx vs nby
wiohnls uhx vywuomy cn ygvluwym qcnbch cnm qilecham nby "mjlyux qile"
jlchwcjfy uhx nbom mylpym ni guchnuch u hogvyl iz jovfcw mylpuhnm qbi
qiofx inbylqcmy vy xyjlcpyx iz uff chwigy. C zyyf, biqypyl, ch pcyq iz
nby jlymyhn ywihigcw mcnouncih uhx nby xywlyumy ch nby wimn iz fcpcha vs
ipyl 20 jyl wyhn, nbun migy zolnbyl muwlczcwy mbiofx vy guxy vs mufulcyx
izzcwcufm iz nby Aipylhgyhn ipyl uhx uvipy nby 8 1/3 jyl wyhn lyxowncih
ohxyl nby zolfioab msmnyg. C qcff lywiggyhx nbun uznyl yrygjncha nby
zclmn $1,000 iz mufuls nbyly mbiofx vy u nygjiluls lyxowncih zil ihy
syul iz 11 jyl wyhn iz nbun juln iz uff Aipylhgyhn mufulcym ch yrwymm iz
nby $1,000 yrygjncih, nby lymofn iz qbcwb, wigvchyx qcnb nby zolfioab
msmnyg, qcff upyluay uvion 14.8 jyl wyhn lyxowncih ch jus ni nbimy
yulhcha gily nbuh $1,000.

C qcff lywiggyhx gyumolym ni yfcgchuny wylnuch jusgyhnm ch nby pynyluhm'
mylpcwym. C wihwycpy nbymy ionfusm qyly yhnclyfs vysihx nby ilcachuf
chnyhncihm iz Wihalymm ch vocfxcha oj pynyluhm' uffiquhwym. Guhs uvomym
bupy aliqh oj zlig cff-wihmcxylyx fyacmfuncih. Nbys mbiofx vy
yfcgchunyx. Nby Huncih mbiofx hin ume zil u lyxowncih ch uffiquhwym ni
gyh uhx xyjyhxyhnm qbimy xcmuvcfcncym lcmy ion iz qul mylpcwy hil ni
nbimy pynyluhm qcnb movmnuhncuf mylpcwy qbi bupy vywigy ninuffs xcmuvfyx
zlig hih-qul-wihhywnyx wuomym uhx qbi uly un nby mugy ncgy qcnbion inbyl
mojjiln. Nbymy funnyl pynyluhm uly u wbulay ih nby wiggohcns un migy
jichn, uhx C zyyf nbun ch pcyq iz nbycl mylpcwy ni nby Huncih um u qbify
nby lymjihmcvcfcns mbiofx zuff ojih nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn.

Guhs iz nby ywihigcym lywiggyhxyx ch nby Voxayn qyly jlymyhnyx un nby
fumn mymmcih iz nby Wihalymm von zucfyx iz uxijncih. Cz nby Ywihigs uhx
Ujjlijlcuncihm Wiggcnnyym iz nby Wihalymm ch wuhpummcha nbymy jlijimyx
yrjyhxcnolym mbuff zchx zolnbyl lyxowncihm qbcwb wuh vy guxy qcnbion
cgjuclcha ymmyhncuf Aipylhgyhn mylpcwym, cn qcff vy qyfwigyx vinb vs nby
wiohnls uhx vs gsmyfz. Von ohxyl hi wclwogmnuhwym xi C zyyf nbun nby
Wihalymm mbiofx zucf ni ojbifx nby ninuf iz lyxowncihm lywiggyhxyx.

Migy iz nby ifxyl lypyhoym uhx migy iz nby lypyhoym jlipcxyx ohxyl nby
uwn jummyx xolcha nby fumn mymmcih iz nby Wihalymm, julncwofulfs nbimy
ayhyluffs lyzyllyx ni um nby hocmuhwy nurym, bupy hin vyyh um jlifczcw
iz chwigy um bux vyyh bijyx. Zolnbyl lypyhoy cm hywymmuls ch uxxcncih ni
nby ugiohn iz lyxowncihm ch yrjyhxcnolym lywiggyhxyx. Guhs iz nby
guhozuwnolylm' yrwcmy nurym ojih myfywnyx chxomnlcym hin ihfs zucfyx ni
jlixowy muncmzuwnils lypyhoy, von nbys uly ch guhs qusm ohdomn uhx
xcmwlcgchunils. Nby ncgy bum wigy qbyh, cz nby Aipylhgyhn cm ni bupy uh
uxykouny vumcm iz lypyhoy ni ummoly u vufuhwyx Voxayn, nbcm msmnyg iz
mjywcuf guhozuwnolylm' yrwcmy nurym mbiofx vy yrnyhxyx ni wipyl
jluwncwuffs uff guhozuwnolym un u ohczilg luny, yrwyjn hywymmuls ziix
uhx jimmcvfs migy aluxym iz wfinbcha.

Un nby fumn mymmcih nby Wihalymm lymjihxyx ni gs lykoymn zil uonbilcns
ni lyilauhcty nby Aipylhgyhn xyjulngyhnm. Nby uwn jlipcxym zil nby
aliojcha uhx wihmifcxuncih iz yrywoncpy uhx uxgchcmnluncpy uayhwcym
uwwilxcha ni gudil joljimy, uhx nbylyvs lyxowcha nby hogvyl uhx ipylfuj
uhx xojfcwuncih iz yzziln. Yrywoncpy ilxylm cmmoyx zil nbymy joljimym
uly lykoclyx ni vy nluhmgcnnyx ni nby Wihalymm qbcfy ch mymmcih uhx xi
hin vywigy yzzywncpy ohncf uznyl nby yrjcluncih iz 60 wufyhxul xusm
uznyl mowb nluhmgcmmcih, ohfymm nby Wihalymm mbuff miihyl ujjlipy.

C mbuff cmmoy mowb Yrywoncpy ilxylm qcnbch u zyq xusm aliojcha il
wihmifcxuncha ipyl zczns yrywoncpy uhx uxgchcmnluncpy uayhwcym chwfoxcha
u fulay hogvyl iz wiggcmmcihm uhx "chxyjyhxyhn" uayhwcym.

Nby mywihx mnyj, iz wiolmy, lyguchm nbun uznyl nbymy pulciom volyuom uhx
uayhwcym uly jfuwyx wbyye vs diqf chni mowb aliojm, nby uxgchcmnluncpy
izzcwylm ch wbulay iz nby aliojm mbuff yfcgchuny nbycl ipylfuj uhx mncff
zolnbyl wihmifcxuny nbymy uwncpcncym. Nbylych fcy fulay ywihigcym.

Nby Wihalymm gomn vy qulhyx nbun u bimn iz chnylymnyx jylmihm chmcxy uhx
ionmcxy nby Aipylhgyhn qbimy pcmcih cm wihwyhnlunyx ih migy julncwoful
zohwncih qcff un ihwy jlinymn uauchmn nbymy jlijimufm. Nbymy mugy milnm
iz uwncpcncym bupy jlypyhnyx lyilauhctuncih iz nby Aipylhgyhn zil ipyl u
koulnyl iz u wyhnols. Nbys gomn vy xcmlyaulxyx cz nby nume cm ni vy
uwwigjfcmbyx.

VUHECHA

Nby vumcm iz ypyls inbyl uhx ypyls zolnbyl yzziln niqulx lywipyls cm ni
lyilauhcty un ihwy iol vuhecha msmnyg. Nby mbiwem ni iol ywihigcw msmnyg
bupy ohxiovnyxfs gofncjfcyx vs nby qyuehymm iz iol zchuhwcuf msmnyg. C
zclmn wuffyx unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm ch 1929 ni nbcm wihxcncih, uhx C
bupy ohwyumchafs lywiggyhxyx lygyxs mchwy nbun ncgy. Nby movdywn bum
vyyh yrbuomncpyfs chpymncaunyx vinb vs nby wiggcnnyym iz nby Wihalymm
uhx nby izzcwylm iz nby Zyxyluf Lymylpy Msmnyg.

Nby vuhecha uhx zchuhwcuf msmnyg cm jlymogyx ni mylpy ch zolhcmbcha nby
ymmyhncuf fovlcwuhn ni nby qbyyfm iz chxomnls, ualcwofnoly, uhx
wiggylwy, nbun cm, wlyxcn. Cnm xcpylmcih zlig jlijyl omy, cnm cgjlijyl
omy, il cnm chmozzcwcyhws chmnuhnfs vlcham bulxmbcj uhx xcmfiwuncih ch
ywihigcw fczy. Um u msmnyg iol vuhecha bum zucfyx ni gyyn nbcm alyun
ygylayhws. Cn wuh vy mucx qcnbion koymncih iz xiovn nbun iol fimmym uhx
xcmnlymm bupy vyyh alyunfs uoagyhnyx vs cnm qbiffs chuxykouny
ilauhctuncih. Cnm chuvcfcns um u msmnyg ni lymjihx ni iol hyyxm cm
ni-xus u wihmnuhn xluch ojih jlialymm niqulx lywipyls. Ch nbcm mnunygyhn
C ug hin lyzyllcha ni chxcpcxouf vuhem il vuheylm. Nbiomuhxm iz nbyg
bupy mbiqh xcmnchaocmbyx wioluay uhx uvcfcns. Ih nby wihnluls, C ug
lyzyllcha ni nby msmnyg cnmyfz, qbcwb cm mi ilauhctyx, il mi fuwecha ch
ilauhctuncih, nbun ch uh ygylayhws cnm pyls gywbuhcmg dyijulxctym il
julufstym nby uwncih iz miohx vuhem uhx cnm chmnuvcfcns cm lymjihmcvfy
zil jylcixcw xuhaylm ni iol qbify ywihigcw msmnyg.

Vuhe zucfolym limy ch 1931 ni 10 1/2 jyl wyhn iz uff nby vuhem um
wigjulyx ni 1 1/2 jyl wyhn iz nby zucfolym iz uff inbyl nsjym iz
yhnyljlcmy. Mchwy Duhouls 1, 1930, qy bupy bux 4,665 vuhem momjyhx, qcnb
$3,300,000,000 ch xyjimcnm. Julnfs zlig zyulm uhx xluchm zlig uvliux,
julnfs zlig nbymy zucfolym nbygmyfpym (qbcwb chxyyx iznyh wuomyx wfimcha
iz miohx vuhem), qy bupy qcnhymmyx biulxcha iz wollyhws ni uh yhilgiom
mog, lcmcha xolcha nby bycabn iz nby wlcmcm ni ipyl $1,600,000,000. Nby
lymofnm zlig chnyllyuwncih iz wuomy uhx yzzywn bupy yrjlymmyx nbygmyfpym
ch mnluhaofuncih iz wlyxcn qbcwb un ncgym bum ufgimn mnczfyx nby
Huncih'm vomchymm uhx ualcwofnoly. Nby fimmym, mozzylcha, uhx nluayxcym
iz iol jyijfy uly chwufwofuvfy. Hin ufihy xi nbys fcy ch nby fimmym iz
mupcham ni gcffcihm iz bigym, chdols vs xyjlcpuf iz qilecha wujcnuf ni
nbiomuhxm iz mguff vomchymmym, von ufmi, ch nby zluhncw jlymmoly ni
lywuff fiuhm ni gyyn jlymmolym iz biulxcha uhx ch fckocxuncih iz zucfyx
vuhem, gcffcihm iz inbyl jyijfy bupy mozzylyx ch nby fimm iz nbycl bigym
uhx zulgm, vomchymmym bupy vyyh lochyx, ohygjfisgyhn chwlyumyx, uhx
zulgylm' jlcwym xcgchcmbyx.

Nbun nbcm zucfoly ni zohwncih cm ohhywymmuls uhx cm nby zuofn iz iol
julncwoful msmnyg cm jfuchfs chxcwunyx vs nby zuwn nbun ch Alyun
Vlcnuch, qbyly nby ywihigcw gywbuhcmg bum mozzylyx zul alyunyl mbiwem
nbuh iol iqh, nbyly bum hin vyyh u mchafy vuhe zucfoly xolcha nby
xyjlymmcih. Uauch ch Wuhuxu, qbyly nby mcnouncih bum vyyh ch fulay
xyalyy cxyhncwuf qcnb iol iqh, nbyly bupy hin vyyh movmnuhncuf vuhe
zucfolym.

Nby wlyuncih iz nby Lywihmnlowncih Zchuhwy Wiljiluncih uhx nby
ugyhxgyhnm ni nby Zyxyluf Lymylpy Uwn mylpyx ni xyzyhx nby Huncih ch u
alyun wlcmcm. Nbys uly hin lygyxcym; nbys uly lyfcyz. Cn cm
chwihwycpuvfy nbun nby Lywihmnlowncih Wiljiluncih, qbcwb bum yrnyhxyx
ucx ni hyulfs 6,000 chmncnoncihm uhx cm guhczymnfs von u nygjiluls
xypcwy, wuh ai ih chxyzchcnyfs.

Cn cm ni-xus u gunnyl iz muncmzuwncih nbun nby luny iz vuhe zucfolym, iz
biulxcha, uhx nby xyguhxm ojih nby Lywihmnlowncih Wiljiluncih bupy
alyunfs fymmyhyx. Nby uwony jbumym iz nby wlcmcm bupy ivpciomfs jummyx
uhx nby ncgy bum hiq wigy qbyh nbcm huncihuf xuhayl uhx nbcm zucfoly ni
lymjihx ni huncihuf hywymmcncym gomn vy yhxyx uhx nby gyumolym ni yhx
nbyg wuh vy muzyfs ohxylnueyh. Gynbixm iz lyzilg bupy vyyh yrbuomncpyfs
yrugchyx. Nbyly cm hi lyumih hiq qbs mifoncih mbiofx hin vy ziohx un nby
jlymyhn mymmcih iz nby Wihalymm. Chzfuncih iz wollyhws il aipylhgyhnuf
wihxown iz vuhecha wuh bupy hi juln ch nbymy lyzilgm. Nby Aipylhgyhn
gomn uvcxy qcnbch nby zcyfx iz wihmnlowncpy ilauhctuncih, lyaofuncih,
uhx nby yhzilwygyhn iz muzy jluwncwym ihfs.

Juluffyf qcnb lyzilg ch nby vuhecha fuqm gomn vy wbuhaym ch nby Zyxyluf
Zulg Fiuh Vuhecha msmnyg uhx ch nby Dichn Mniwe Fuhx Vuhem. Migy iz
nbymy wbuhaym mbiofx vy xclywnyx ni jylguhyhn cgjlipygyhn uhx migy ni
ygylayhws ucx ni iol jyijfy qbyly nbys qcmb ni zcabn ni mupy nbycl zulgm
uhx bigym.

C qcmb uauch ni ygjbumcty nbcm pcyq--nbun nbymy qcxymjlyux vuhecha
lyzilgm uly u huncihuf hywymmcns uhx uly nby zclmn lykocmcnym zil
zolnbyl lywipyls ch ualcwofnoly uhx vomchymm. Nbys mbiofx bupy cggyxcuny
wihmcxyluncih um mnyjm alyunfs hyyxyx ni zolnbyl lywipyls.

YWIHIGCW WIIJYLUNCIH QCNB INBYL HUNCIHM

Iol gudil xczzcwofncym xolcha nby jumn nqi syulm zchx nbycl ilcachm ch
nby mbiwem zlig ywihigcw wiffujmy uvliux qbcwb ch nolh uly nby uznylgunb
iz nby Alyun Qul. Cz qy uly ni mywoly lujcx uhx ummolyx lywipyls uhx
jlinywncih zil nby zonoly qy gomn wiijyluny qcnb zilycah huncihm ch guhs
gyumolym.

Qy bupy uwncpyfs yhauayx ch u Qilfx Xcmulgugyhn Wihzylyhwy qbyly, qcnb
mowwymm, qy mbiofx lyxowy iol iqh nur volxyhm uhx nby nur volxyhm iz
inbyl gudil huncihm. Qy mbiofx chwlyumy jifcncwuf mnuvcfcns iz nby
qilfx. Qy mbiofx fymmyh nby xuhayl iz qul vs chwlyumcha xyzyhmcpy jiqylm
uhx xywlyumcha izzyhmcpy jiqylm iz huncihm. Qy qiofx nbom ijyh hyq
pcmnum iz ywihigcw yrjuhmcih zil nby qilfx.

Qy uly julncwcjuncha ch nby zilgofuncih iz u Qilfx Ywihigcw Wihzylyhwy,
mowwymmzof lymofnm zlig qbcwb qiofx wihnlcvony gowb ni uxpuhwy ch
ualcwofnoluf jlcwym, ygjfisgyhn, uhx vomchymm. Wollyhws xyjlywcuncih uhx
willyfunyx zilwym bupy wihnlcvonyx alyunfs ni xywlyumy ch jlcwy fypyfm.
Gilyipyl, zlig nbymy ilcachm lcmy gimn iz nby xymnlowncpy nluxy vullcylm
hiq mnczfcha nby wiggylwy iz nby qilfx. Qy wiofx vs mowwymmzof uwncih
chwlyumy mywolcns uhx yrjuhx nluxy nblioab mnuvcfcns ch chnylhuncihuf
yrwbuhay uhx gihynuls pufoym. Vs mowb uwncih qilfx wihzcxyhwy wiofx vy
lymnilyx. Cn qiofx vlcha wioluay uhx mnuvcfcns, qbcwb qcff lyzfywn chni
ypyls bigy ch iol fuhx.

Nby Yolijyuh aipylhgyhnm, ivfcaunyx ni om ch qul xyvnm, bupy lykoymnyx
nbun nbyly mbiofx vy momjyhmcih iz jusgyhnm xoy nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ih
Xywygvyl 15 hyrn, ni vy uwwigjuhcyx vs yrwbuhay iz pcyqm ojih nbcm xyvn
koymncih. Iol Aipylhgyhn bum chzilgyx nbyg nbun qy xi hin ujjlipy iz
momjyhmcih iz nby Xywygvyl 15 jusgyhnm. C bupy mnunyx nbun C qiofx
lywiggyhx ni nby Wihalymm gynbixm ni ipylwigy nygjiluls yrwbuhay
xczzcwofncym ch wihhywncih qcnb nbcm jusgyhn zlig huncihm qbyly cn gus
vy hywymmuls.

Ch nby gyuhncgy C qcmb ni lycnyluny nbun byly uly nblyy alyun zcyfxm iz
chnylhuncihuf uwncih qbcwb gomn vy wihmcxylyx hin ch juln von um u
qbify. Nbys uly iz gimn pcnuf chnylymn ni iol jyijfy. Qcnbch nbyg nbyly
uly hin ihfs alupy xuhaylm cz qy zucf ch lcabn uwncih von nbyly ufmi ncy
cggyhmy ijjilnohcncym zil aiix cz qy mbuff mowwyyx. Qcnbch mowwymm nbyly
fcy gudil lygyxcym zil iol ywihigcw xcmnlymm uhx gudil jlialymm ch
mnuvcfcns uhx mywolcns ni ypyls zclymcxy ch iol wiohnls.

Nby qyfzuly iz iol jyijfy cm xyjyhxyhn ojih mowwymmzof cmmoy iz nby
alyun wuomym iz qilfx jyuwy, qilfx xcmulgugyhn, uhx ilauhctyx qilfx
lywipyls. Hil cm cn nii gowb ni mus nbun ni-xus um hypyl vyzily nby
qyfzuly iz guhechx uhx nby jlymylpuncih iz wcpcfctuncih xyjyhx ojih iol
mifoncih iz nbymy koymncihm. Mowb mifoncihm wuh hin vy unnuchyx yrwyjn
vs bihymn zlcyhxmbcj, vs uxbylyhwy ni ualyygyhnm yhnylyx ojih ohncf
gonouffs lypcmyx uhx vs wiijyluncih ugihamn huncihm ch u xynylgchuncih
ni zchx mifoncihm qbcwb qcff vy gonouffs vyhyzcwcuf.

INBYL FYACMFUNCIH

C bupy jfuwyx pulciom fyacmfuncpy hyyxm vyzily nby Wihalymm ch jlypciom
gymmuaym, uhx nbymy pcyqm lykocly hi ugjfczcwuncih ih nbcm iwwumcih. C
bupy olayx nby hyyx zil lyzilg ch iol nluhmjilnuncih uhx jiqyl
lyaofuncih, ch nby uhncnlomn fuqm um ujjfcyx ni iol huncihuf lymiolwy
chxomnlcym, qymnylh luhay wihmylpuncih, yrnyhmcih iz Zyxyluf ucx ni
wbcfx byufnb mylpcwym, gygvylmbcj ch nby Qilfx Wioln, nby lunczcwuncih
iz nby Alyun Fueym-Mn. Fuqlyhwy Myuqus Nlyuns, lypcmcih iz nby
vuhelojnws uwnm, lypcmcih iz Zyxyluf wioln jliwyxoly, uhx guhs inbyl
jlymmcha jlivfygm.

Nbymy uhx inbyl mjywcuf movdywnm C mbuff qbyly hywymmuls xyuf qcnb vs
mjywcuf wiggohcwuncihm ni nby Wihalymm.

Nby uwncpcncym iz iol Aipylhgyhn uly mi alyun, qbyh wigvchyx qcnb nby
ygylayhws uwncpcncym qbcwb bupy ulcmyh ion iz nby qilfx wlcmcm, nbun
ypyh nby vlcyzymn lypcyq iz nbyg qiofx lyhxyl nby uhhouf gymmuay ohxofs
fiha. C mbuff nbylyzily upucf gsmyfz iz nby zuwn nbun ypyls xynucf iz
nby Aipylhgyhn cm wipylyx ch nby lyjilnm ni nby Wihalymm vs yuwb iz nby
xyjulngyhnm uhx uayhwcym iz nby Aipylhgyhn.

WIHWFOMCIH

Cn myygm ni gy ujjlijlcuny ojih nbcm iwwumcih ni guey wylnuch ayhyluf
ivmylpuncihm ojih nby jlchwcjfym qbcwb gomn xigchuny nby mifoncih iz
jlivfygm hiq jlymmcha ojih nby Huncih. Fyacmfuncih ch lymjihmy ni
huncihuf hyyxm qcff vy yzzywncpy ihfs cz ypyls mowb uwn wihzilgm ni u
wigjfyny jbcfimijbs iz nby jyijfy'm joljimym uhx xymnchs. Iolm cm u
xcmnchwncpy aipylhgyhn qcnb u ohckoy bcmnils uhx vuwealiohx, wihmwciomfs
xyxcwunyx ni mjywczcw cxyufm iz fcvylns uhx ni u zucnb ch nby chpcifuvfy
muhwncns iz nby chxcpcxouf boguh mjclcn. Zolnbylgily, nby wihnchoyx
yrcmnyhwy uhx uxykouny zohwncihcha iz iol aipylhgyhn ch jlymylpuncih iz
ilxylyx fcvylns uhx mncgofuncih iz jlialymm xyjyhxm ojih nby guchnyhuhwy
iz Mnuny, fiwuf, chmncnoncihuf, uhx chxcpcxouf myhmy iz lymjihmcvcfcns.
Qy bupy vocfxyx u msmnyg iz chxcpcxoufcmg jywofculfs iol iqh qbcwb gomn
hin vy zilainnyh ch uhs aipylhgyhnuf uwnm, zil zlig cn bupy aliqh
alyunyl uwwigjfcmbgyhnm nbuh nbimy iz uhs inbyl huncih.

Ih nby miwcuf uhx ywihigcw mcxym, nby vuwealiohx iz iol Ugylcwuh msmnyg
uhx nby gincpuncih iz jlialymm cm ymmyhncuffs nbun qy mbiofx uffiq zlyy
jfus iz miwcuf uhx ywihigcw zilwym um zul um qcff hin fcgcn ykoufcns iz
ijjilnohcns uhx um qcff un nby mugy ncgy mncgofuny nby chcncuncpy uhx
yhnyljlcmy iz iol jyijfy. Ch nby guchnyhuhwy iz nbcm vufuhwy nby Zyxyluf
Aipylhgyhn wuh jylgcn iz hi jlcpcfyay ni uhs jylmih il alioj. Cn mbiofx
uwn um u lyaofunils uayhn uhx hin um u julncwcjuhn ch ywihigcw uhx
miwcuf fczy. Nby gigyhn nby Aipylhgyhn julncwcjunym, cn vywigym u
wigjyncnil qcnb nby jyijfy. Um u wigjyncnil cn vywigym un ihwy u nsluhhs
ch qbunypyl xclywncih cn gus niowb. Qy bupy uliohx om hogyliom mowb
yrjylcyhwym, hi ihy iz qbcwb wuh vy ziohx ni bupy domnczcyx cnmyfz
yrwyjn ch wumym qbyly nby jyijfy um u qbify bupy gyn zilwym vysihx nbycl
wihnlif, mowb um nbimy iz nby Alyun Qul uhx nbcm alyun xyjlymmcih, qbyly
nby zoff jiqylm iz nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn gomn vy yrylnyx ni jlinywn nby
jyijfy. Von ypyh nbymy gomn vy fcgcnyx ni uh ygylayhws myhmy uhx gomn vy
jligjnfs yhxyx qbyh nbymy xuhaylm uly ipylwigy.

Qcnb nby zlyy xypyfijgyhn iz mwcyhwy uhx nby wihmykoyhn gofncnoxy iz
chpyhncihm, migy iz qbcwb uly uvmifonyfs lypifoncihuls ch iol huncihuf
fczy, nby Aipylhgyhn gomn hin ihfs mncgofuny nby miwcuf uhx ywihigcw
lymjihmcvcfcns iz chxcpcxoufm uhx jlcpuny chmncnoncihm von cn gomn ufmi
acpy fyuxylmbcj ni wiijyluncpy uwncih ugihamn nby jyijfy qbcwb qcff
miznyh nby yzzywn iz nbymy lypifoncihm uhx nbom mywoly miwcuf
nluhmzilguncihm ch uh ilxylfs guhhyl. Nby bcabymn zilg iz
myfz-aipylhgyhn cm nby pifohnuls wiijyluncih qcnbch iol jyijfy zil mowb
joljimym.

Von C qiofx ygjbumcty uauch nbun miwcuf uhx ywihigcw mifoncihm, um mowb,
qcff hin upucf ni muncmzs nby umjcluncihm iz nby jyijfy ohfymm nbys
wihzilg qcnb nby nluxcncihm iz iol luwy xyyjfs aliipyx ch nbycl
myhncgyhnm nblioab u wyhnols uhx u bufz iz mnloaafy zil cxyufm iz fczy
nbun uly liinyx ch lyfcacih uhx zyx zlig jolyfs mjclcnouf mjlcham.

BYLVYLN BIIPYL Nby Qbcny Biomy, Xywygvyl 6, 1932.