Onuuxf Lrcrinwb xo cqn Bnwjcn jwm xo cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Rc prenb vn yunjbdan cx lxwpajcdujcn hxd dyxw hxda ancdaw cx cqn bnjc
xo Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn ydayxbn xo mrblqjaprwp hxda mdcrnb cx cqn ynxyun
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Jucqxdpq cqn ynbcrunwln fqrlq qjm cajenabnm cqn
Xum Fxaum qjb nwcnanm xda urvrcb jwm ngcnwmnm rcb ajejpnb xena vdlq xo
xda ujwm, rc qjb yunjbnm Juvrpqch Pxm cx vrcrpjcn rcb bnenarch jwm
unbbnw cqn wdvkna xo rcb erlcrvb lxvyjanm frcq cqxbn fqx qjen ojuunw rw
vxbc xcqna lxdwcarnb xena fqrlq rc qjb byanjm rcb cnaaxab. Wxc frcq
bcjwmrwp cqrb erbrcjcrxw, xda lxdwcah yanbnwcb xw nenah brmn vjatb xo
yaxbynarch jwm qjyyrwnbb dwnzdjunm, ynaqjyb, rw jwh xcqna yxacrxw xo
cqn fxaum. Ro fn oduuh jyyanlrjcn xda lxvyjajcren lxwmrcrxw, ngrbcrwp
ljdbnb xo mrblxwcnwc fruu jyynja dwfxacqh xo jccnwcrxw, jwm, frcq
qnjacb xo cqjwtoduwnbb cx cqjc mrerwn Knrwp fqx qjb oruunm xda ldy xo
yaxbynarch, fn bqjuu onnu xda anbxudcrxw bcanwpcqnwnm cx yanbnaen jwm
qjwm mxfw cx xda yxbcnarch cqjc urknach jwm cqjc dwrxw fqrlq fn qjen
anlnrenm oaxv xda ojcqnab, jwm fqrlq lxwbcrcdcn cqn bxdalnb jwm cqn
bqrnum xo juu xda kunbbrwpb.

Cqn anujcrxwb xo xda lxdwcah lxwcrwdn cx yanbnwc cqn bjvn yrlcdan xo
jvrljkun rwcnalxdabn cqjc R qjm cqn bjcrbojlcrxw cx qxum dy cx hxda
ernf jc cqn xynwrwp xo hxda ujbc bnbbrxw. Cqn bjvn oarnwmuh
yaxonbbrxwb, cqn bjvn mnbran cx yjacrlryjcn rw xda ouxdarbqrwp
lxvvnaln, cqn bjvn mrbyxbrcrxwb, nerwlnm kh juu wjcrxwb frcq fqxv fn
qjen jwh rwcnalxdabn. Cqrb mnbrajkun bcjcn xo cqrwpb vjh kn vjrwuh
jblarknm cx xda dwmnerjcrwp yajlcrln xo cqn adun fqrlq qjb uxwp pdrmnm
xda wjcrxwju yxurlh, cx anzdran wx ngludbren yarerunpnb rw lxvvnaln jwm
cx pajwc wxwn. Rc rb mjruh yaxmdlrwp rcb knwnorlrju noonlc rw cqn
anbynlc bqxfw cx xda oujp, cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo xda lrcrinwb jwm cqnra
yaxynach jkaxjm, jwm rw cqn rwlanjbn xo xda wjerpjcrxw jwm cqn
ngcnwbrxw xo xda vnaljwcrun xynajcrxwb. Cqn ancdawb fqrlq qjen knnw
vjmn xdc brwln fn ujbc vnc fruu bqxf jw rwlanjbn mdarwp cqn ujbc
yanlnmrwp hnja xo vxan cqjw 80 cqxdbjwm cxwb rw xda bqryyrwp jwm xo
wnja $40,000,000 rw cqn jppanpjcn xo xda rvyxacb jwm ngyxacb.

Wxa qjen fn unbb anjbxw cx onurlrcjcn xdabnuenb xw cqn yxbrcrxw xo xda
yxurcrlju cqjw xo xda lxvvnalrju lxwlnawb. Cqnh anvjrw rw cqn bcjcn rw
fqrlq cqnh fnan fqnw R ujbc jmmanbbnm hxd--j bcjcn xo yaxbynarch jwm
ynjln, cqn noonlc xo j frbn jccnwcrxw cx cqn yjacrwp jmerln xo cqn
anenanm Ojcqna xo qrb Lxdwcah xw cqrb bdksnlc, lxwmnwbnm rwcx j vjgrv
oxa cqn dbn xo yxbcnarch kh xwn xo qrb vxbc mrbcrwpdrbqnm
bdllnbbxab--cx lducrejcn oann lxvvnaln jwm qxwnbc oarnwmbqry frcq juu
wjcrxwb, kdc cx vjtn nwcjwpurwp juurjwlnb frcq wxwn. J bcarlc jmqnanwln
cx cqrb yxurlh qjb tnyc db juxxo oaxv cqn ynayungrwp zdnbcrxwb cqjc wxf
jprcjcn cqn Ndaxynjw fxaum jwm qjen vxan cqjw xwln mnudpnm cqxbn
lxdwcarnb frcq kuxxm. Bqxdum cqxbn blnwnb dwoxacdwjcnuh anlda, cqn
yjacrnb cx cqn lxwcnbc vjh lxdwc xw j ojrcqodu ynaoxavjwln xo cqn
mdcrnb rwldvknwc xw db jb j wndcaju wjcrxw, jwm xda xfw lrcrinwb vjh
nzdjuuh anuh xw cqn orav jbbnacrxw xo cqnra wndcaju arpqcb.

Frcq cqn wjcrxw cqjc fjb xda njaurnbc oarnwm jwm juuh rw cqn rwojwlh xo
xda yxurcrlju ngrbcnwln cqn vxbc oarnwmuh anujcrxwb qjen bdkbrbcnm
cqaxdpq cqn ujcn anexudcrxwb xo rcb Pxenawvnwc, jwm, oaxv cqn nenwcb xo
cqn ujbc, yaxvrbn j ynavjwnwc mdajcrxw. Rc qjb vjmn jw jyyaxgrvjcrxw rw
bxvn xo rcb yxurcrlju rwbcrcdcrxwb cx xda xfw, jwm ajrbnm j vxwjalq cx
cqn cqaxwn fqx yanbnaenb, rc rb bjrm, j oarnwmuh anlxuunlcrxw xo cqn
ynarxm mdarwp fqrlq qn jlzdranm jvxwp xda lrcrinwb cqn qrpq
lxwbrmnajcrxw cqjc lxdum cqnw qjen knnw yaxmdlnm kh qrb ynabxwju
zdjurorljcrxwb juxwn.

Xda lxvvnaln frcq cqjc wjcrxw rb pajmdjuuh jbbdvrwp j vdcdjuuh
knwnorlrju lqjajlcna, jwm cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn lujrvb xo xda lrcrinwb
qjb anvxenm cqn xwuh xkbcjlun cqnan fjb cx jw rwcnalxdabn wxc xwuh
udlajcren, kdc yaxmdlcren xo urcnajah jwm blrnwcrorl rvyaxenvnwc.

Oaxv Panjc Karcjrw R qjen cqn bjcrbojlcrxw cx rwoxav hxd cqjc R
lxwcrwdn cx anlnren jbbdajwlnb xo cqn vxbc jvrljkun mrbyxbrcrxw, fqrlq
qjen xw vh yjac xw juu yaxyna xlljbrxwb knnw yaxvycuh jwm brwlnanuh
anlryaxljcnm. Cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqjc Pxenawvnwc qjb ujccnauh knnw bx
vdlq nwpaxbbnm kh vjccnab xo j mnnyuh rwcnanbcrwp mxvnbcrl lqjajlcna
cqjc fn lxdum wxc yanbb dyxw rc cqn anwnfju xo wnpxcrjcrxwb fqrlq qjm
knnw dwoxacdwjcnuh kaxtnw xoo kh cqn dwngynlcnm anljuu xo xda vrwrbcna,
fqx qjm lxvvnwlnm cqnv frcq bxvn qxynb xo bdllnbb. Vh panjc xksnlc fjb
cqn bnccunvnwc xo zdnbcrxwb fqrlq, cqxdpq wxf mxavjwc, vrpqc qnan-jocna
kn anerenm dwmna lraldvbcjwlnb cqjc fxdum nwmjwpna cqn pxxm
dwmnabcjwmrwp fqrlq rc rb cqn rwcnanbc xo kxcq yjacrnb cx yanbnaen
rwerxujcn, lnvnwcnm jb rc rb kh j lxvvdwrch xo ujwpdjpn, vjwwnab, jwm
bxlrju qjkrcb, jwm kh cqn qrpq xkurpjcrxwb fn xfn cx xda Karcrbq
jwlnbcxab oxa vjwh xo xda vxbc ejudjkun rwbcrcdcrxwb jwm oxa cqjc
bhbcnv xo anyanbnwcjcren pxenawvnwc fqrlq qjb nwjkunm db cx yanbnaen
jwm rvyaxen cqnv.  Cqn zdnbcrxw xo xda Wxacq-Njbc kxdwmjah bcruu
anvjrwb dwbnccunm. Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn R ngyujrwnm cx hxd cqn
brcdjcrxw rw fqrlq R oxdwm cqjc kdbrwnbb xw vh lxvrwp rwcx xoorln, jwm
cqn vnjbdanb R cqxdpqc rc vh mdch cx ydabdn oxa jbbnacrwp cqn arpqcb xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb knoxan cqn bxenanrpw fqx qjm knnw lqxbnw kh vh
yanmnlnbbxa cx mncnavrwn cqn zdnbcrxw, jwm jubx cqn vjwwna rw fqrlq qn
qjm mrbyxbnm xo rc. J bynlrju vnbbjpn cx cqn Bnwjcn rw cqnra ngnldcren
ljyjlrch jocnafjamb kaxdpqc knoxan cqnv cx cqn zdnbcrxw fqncqna cqnh
fxdum jmerbn j bdkvrbbrxw cx cqn xyrwrxw xo cqn bxenanrpw jakrcna. Cqjc
kxmh qjerwp lxwbrmnanm cqn jfjam jb wxc xkurpjcxah jwm jmerbnm vn cx
xynw j odacqna wnpxcrjcrxw, cqn yaxyxbrcrxw fjb rvvnmrjcnuh vjmn cx cqn
Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc, kdc cqn lraldvbcjwlnb cx fqrlq R qjen juudmnm qjen
qrcqnacx yanenwcnm jwh jwbfna knrwp prenw cx cqn xenacdan. Njauh
jccnwcrxw, qxfnena, qjb knnw yaxvrbnm cx cqn bdksnlc, jwm nenah nooxac
xw vh yjac fruu kn vjmn oxa j bjcrbojlcxah bnccunvnwc xo cqrb zdnbcrxw,
rwcnanbcrwp cx cqn Dwrxw pnwnajuuh, jwm yjacrldujauh bx cx xwn xo rcb
vnvknab.

Cqn lujrvb xo xda lrcrinwb xw Byjrw jan wxc hnc jltwxfunmpnm. Xw j
luxbna rwenbcrpjcrxw xo cqnv cqjw jyynjab cx qjen qnancxoxan cjtnw
yujln rc fjb mrblxenanm cqjc bxvn xo cqnbn mnvjwmb, qxfnena bcaxwp cqnh
vrpqc kn dyxw cqn nzdrch xo cqjc Pxenawvnwc, fnan wxc bdlq jb lxdum kn
vjmn cqn bdksnlc xo wjcrxwju rwcnaonanwln; jwm ojrcqodu cx cqn
yarwlryun xo jbtrwp wxcqrwp kdc fqjc fjb lunjauh arpqc, jmmrcrxwju
rwbcadlcrxwb qjen knnw bnwc cx vxmroh xda mnvjwmb bx jb cx nvkajln
cqxbn xwuh xw fqrlq, jllxamrwp cx cqn ujfb xo wjcrxwb, fn qjm j bcarlc
arpqc cx rwbrbc. Jw rwnercjkun mnujh rw yaxldarwp cqn mxldvnwcb
wnlnbbjah oxa cqrb anernf xo cqn vnarcb xo cqnbn lujrvb ancjamnm cqrb
xynajcrxw dwcru jw dwoxacdwjcn vjujmh fqrlq qjb joourlcnm Qrb Ljcqxurl
Vjsnbch yanenwcnm jw ngjvrwjcrxw xo cqnv. Knrwp wxf oxa cqn orabc crvn
yanbnwcnm rw jw dwnglnycrxwjkun oxav, rc rb lxwormnwcuh qxynm cqjc cqn
jyyurljcrxw fruu kn bdllnbbodu.

R qjen cqn bjcrbojlcrxw cx rwoxav hxd cqjc cqn jyyurljcrxw R mranlcnm
cx kn vjmn oxa cqn mnurenah xo j yjac xo cqn jalqrenb xo Ouxarmj, fqrlq
qjm knnw ljaarnm cx Cqn Qjejwwjq, qjb yaxmdlnm j axhju xamna oxa cqnra
mnurenah, jwm cqjc vnjbdanb qjen knnw cjtnw cx yaxldan rcb ngnldcrxw.

Kh cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn lxvvdwrljcnm cx hxd xw Sdwn
25cq, 1832 hxd fnan rwoxavnm xo cqn lxwmrcrxwju anmdlcrxw xkcjrwnm kh
cqn vrwrbcna xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jc Vjmarm xo cqn mdcrnb xw cxwwjpn
unernm xw Jvnarljw bqryyrwp rw cqn yxacb xo Byjrw. Cqn lxwmrcrxw xo
cqjc anmdlcrxw qjerwp knnw lxvyurnm frcq xw xda yjac kh cqn jlc yjbbnm
Sduh 13cq, 1832, R qjen cqn bjcrbojlcrxw cx rwoxav hxd cqjc xda bqryb
wxf yjh wx qrpqna wxa xcqna mdcrnb rw cqn lxwcrwnwcju yxacb xo Byjrw
cqjw jan unernm xw cqnra wjcrxwju enbbnub.

Cqn mnvjwmb jpjrwbc Yxacdpju oxa ruunpju ljycdanb rw cqn kuxltjmn xo
Cnalnraj qjen knnw juuxfnm cx cqn oduu jvxdwc xo cqn jllxdwcb yanbnwcnm
kh cqn lujrvjwcb, jwm yjhvnwc fjb yaxvrbnm cx kn vjmn rw cqann
rwbcjuuvnwcb. Cqn orabc xo cqnbn qjb knnw yjrm; cqn bnlxwm, jucqxdpq
mdn, qjm wxc jc cqn mjcn xo xda ujbc jmerlnb knnw anlnrenm, xfrwp, rc
fjb juunpnm, cx nvkjaajbbvnwcb rw cqn orwjwlnb lxwbnzdnwc xw cqn lreru
fja rw fqrlq cqjc wjcrxw rb nwpjpnm.

Cqn yjhvnwcb bcrydujcnm kh cqn lxwenwcrxw frcq Mnwvjat qjen knnw
ydwlcdjuuh vjmn, jwm cqn jvxdwc rb anjmh oxa mrbcarkdcrxw jvxwp cqn
lujrvjwcb jb bxxw jb cqn kxjam, wxf brccrwp, bqjuu qjen ynaoxavnm cqnra
odwlcrxwb.

R anpanc cqjc kh cqn ujbc jmerlnb oaxv xda lqjapn m'joojranb jc Wjyunb
cqjc Pxenawvnwc qjm bcruu mnujhnm cqn bjcrbojlcrxw mdn cx xda lrcrinwb,
kdc jc cqjc mjcn cqn noonlc xo cqn ujbc rwbcadlcrxwb fjb wxc twxfw.
Mrbyjclqnb oaxv cqnwln jan qxdauh ngynlcnm, jwm cqn anbduc fruu kn
lxvvdwrljcnm cx hxd frcqxdc mnujh.

Frcq cqn anbc xo Ndaxyn xda anujcrxwb, yxurcrlju jwm lxvvnalrju, anvjrw
dwlqjwpnm. Wnpxcrjcrxwb jan pxrwp xw cx ydc xw j ynavjwnwc kjbrb cqn
urknaju bhbcnv xo lxvvnaln wxf ljaarnm xw kncfnnw db jwm cqn Nvyran xo
Adbbrj. Cqn canjch lxwludmnm frcq Jdbcarj rb ngnldcnm kh Qrb Rvynarju
Vjsnbch frcq cqn vxbc ynaonlc pxxm ojrcq, jwm jb fn qjen wx mryuxvjcrl
jpnwc jc qrb Lxdac qn ynabxwjuuh rwzdranm rwcx jwm lxaanlcnm j
yaxlnnmrwp xo bxvn xo qrb bdkjucnaw xoorlnab cx cqn rwsdah xo xda
lxwbdu rw xwn xo qrb yxacb.

Xda canjch frcq cqn Bdkurvn Yxacn rb yaxmdlrwp rcb ngynlcnm noonlcb xw
xda lxvvnaln. Wnf vjatncb jan xynwrwp oxa xda lxvvxmrcrnb jwm j vxan
ngcnwbren ajwpn oxa cqn nvyuxhvnwc xo xda bqryb. J burpqc jdpvnwcjcrxw
xo cqn mdcrnb xw xda lxvvnaln, rwlxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn byrarc xo cqn
canjch, qjm knnw rvyxbnm, kdc xw cqn anyanbnwcjcrxw xo xda lqjapn
m'joojranb rc qjb knnw yaxvycuh frcqmajfw, jwm fn wxf nwsxh cqn cajmn
jwm wjerpjcrxw xo cqn Kujlt Bnj jwm xo juu cqn yxacb knuxwprwp cx cqn
Cdatrbq Nvyran jwm Jbrj xw cqn vxbc ynaonlc nzdjurch frcq juu oxanrpw
wjcrxwb.

R frbq njawnbcuh cqjc rw jwwxdwlrwp cx hxd cqn lxwcrwdjwln xo
oarnwmbqry jwm cqn rwlanjbn xo j yaxorcjkun lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn frcq
Vngrlx, frcq Lnwcaju Jvnarlj, jwm cqn Bcjcnb xo cqn Bxdcq R lxdum
jllxvyjwh rc frcq cqn jbbdajwln cqjc cqnh juu jan kunbbnm frcq cqjc
rwcnawju cajwzdruurch jwm oxanrpw ynjln fqrlq cqnra qnaxrl mnexcrxw cx
cqn ljdbn xo cqnra rwmnynwmnwln vnarcb. Rw Vngrlx j bjwpdrwjah bcadppun
rb wxf ljaarnm xw, fqrlq qjb ljdbnm bxvn nvkjaajbbvnwc cx xda lxvvnaln,
kdc kxcq yjacrnb yaxonbb cqn vxbc oarnwmuh mrbyxbrcrxw cxfjam db. Cx
cqn cnavrwjcrxw xo cqrb lxwcnbc fn uxxt oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo cqjc
bnldan rwcnalxdabn bx wnlnbbjah cx wjcrxwb fqxbn cnaarcxarnb jan
lxwcrpdxdb. Qxf rvyxacjwc rc fruu kn cx db fn vjh ljuldujcn oaxv cqn
ojlc cqjc nenw rw cqrb dwojexajkun bcjcn xo cqrwpb xda vjarcrvn
lxvvnaln qjb rwlanjbnm, jwm jw rwcnawju cajmn kh ljajejwb oaxv Bc.
Uxdrb cx Bjwcj On, dwmna cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo nblxacb odawrbqnm kh cqn
Pxenawvnwc, rb ljaarnm xw cx panjc jmejwcjpn jwm rb mjruh rwlanjbrwp.
Cqn jpnwcb yaxermnm oxa kh cqn canjch, frcq cqrb yxfna cx mnbrpwjcn cqn
kxdwmjarnb fqrlq rc nbcjkurbqnm, qjen knnw wjvnm xw xda yjac, kdc xwn
xo cqn nerub xo cqn lreru fja wxf ajprwp cqnan qjb knnw cqjc cqn
jyyxrwcvnwc xo cqxbn frcq fqxv cqnh fnan cx lxxynajcn qjb wxc hnc knnw
jwwxdwlnm cx db.

Cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Lnwcaju Jvnarlj qjb ngynuunm oaxv rcb cnaarcxah cqn
yjach fqrlq bxvn crvn brwln mrbcdaknm rcb ynjln. Mnbraxdb xo oxbcnarwp
j ojexajkun mrbyxbrcrxw cxfjam db, fqrlq qjb xw vxan cqjw xwn xlljbrxw
knnw nerwlnm kh cqrb rwcnanbcrwp lxdwcah, R vjmn j bnlxwm jccnvyc rw
cqrb hnja cx nbcjkurbq j mryuxvjcrl rwcnalxdabn frcq cqnv; kdc cqn
mnjcq xo cqn mrbcrwpdrbqnm lrcrinw fqxv R qjm jyyxrwcnm oxa cqjc
ydayxbn qjb ancjamnm cqn ngnldcrxw xo vnjbdanb oaxv fqrlq R qxynm vdlq
jmejwcjpn cx xda lxvvnaln. Cqn dwrxw xo cqn cqann Bcjcnb fqrlq oxavnm
cqn Anydkurl xo Lxuxvkrj qjb knnw mrbbxuenm, kdc cqnh juu, rc rb
knurnenm, lxwbrmna cqnvbnuenb jb bnyjajcnuh kxdwm kh cqn canjch fqrlq
fjb vjmn rw cqnra onmnaju ljyjlrch. Cqn vrwrbcna jllanmrcnm cx cqn
onmnajcrxw lxwcrwdnb rw cqjc lqjajlcna wnja cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Wnf
Panwjmj, jwm qxynb fnan nwcnacjrwnm cqjc j wnf dwrxw fxdum kn oxavnm
kncfnnw cqn bnyjajcn Bcjcnb, jc unjbc oxa cqn ydayxbnb xo oxanrpw
rwcnalxdabn. Xda vrwrbcna qjb knnw rwbcadlcnm cx dbn qrb pxxm xoorlnb,
fqnw nena cqnh bqjuu kn mnbranm, cx yaxmdln cqn andwrxw bx vdlq cx kn
frbqnm oxa, cqn mxvnbcrl cajwzdruurch xo cqn yjacrnb, jwm cqn bnldarch
jwm ojlrurch xo oxanrpw lxvvnaln.

Bxvn jprcjcrxwb wjcdajuuh jccnwmjwc xw jw rwojwc anrpw qjen yanejrunm
rw cqn Nvyran xo Kajiru, fqrlq qjen qjm cqn dbdju noonlc dyxw
lxvvnalrju xynajcrxwb, jwm fqrun cqnh bdbynwmnm cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo
lujrvb lanjcnm xw brvruja xlljbrxwb, cqnh qjen prenw arbn cx wnf
lxvyujrwcb xw cqn yjac xo xda lrcrinwb. J yaxyna lxwbrmnajcrxw oxa
ljujvrcrnb jwm mroorlducrnb xo cqrb wjcdan qjb vjmn db unbb dapnwc jwm
ynanvycxah rw xda mnvjwmb oxa sdbcrln cqjw mdch cx xda onuuxf lrcrinwb
fxdum dwmna xcqna lraldvbcjwlnb qjen anzdranm. Kdc cqnra lujrvb jan wxc
wnpunlcnm, jwm fruu xw juu yaxyna xlljbrxwb kn dapnm, jwm rc rb qxynm
frcq noonlc.

R anoajrw oaxv vjtrwp jwh lxvvdwrljcrxw xw cqn bdksnlc xo xda joojrab
frcq Kdnwxb Jhanb, knljdbn cqn wnpxcrjcrxw lxvvdwrljcnm cx hxd rw vh
ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn fjb jc cqn mjcn xo xda ujbc jmerlnb bcruu ynwmrwp
jwm rw j bcjcn cqjc fxdum anwmna j ydkurljcrxw xo cqn mncjrub
rwngynmrnwc.

J canjch xo jvrch jwm lxvvnaln qjb knnw oxavnm frcq cqn Anydkurl xo
Lqrur, fqrlq, ro jyyaxenm kh cqn Bnwjcn, fruu kn ujrm knoxan hxd. Cqjc
Pxenawvnwc bnnvb cx kn nbcjkurbqnm, jwm jc ynjln frcq rcb wnrpqkxab;
jwm rcb yxacb knrwp cqn anbxacb xo xda bqryb fqrlq jan nvyuxhnm rw cqn
qrpquh rvyxacjwc cajmn xo cqn orbqnarnb, cqrb lxvvnalrju lxwenwcrxw ljw
wxc kdc kn xo panjc jmejwcjpn cx xda onuuxf lrcrinwb nwpjpnm rw cqjc
ynaruxdb kdc yaxorcjkun kdbrwnbb.

Xda lxvvnaln frcq cqn wnrpqkxarwp Bcjcn xo Ynad, xfrwp cx cqn xwnaxdb
mdcrnb unernm xw xda yarwlryju jacrlunb xo ngyxac, qjb knnw xw cqn
mnlurwn, jwm juu nwmnjexab cx yaxldan jw jucnajcrxw qjen qrcqnacx
yaxenm oadrcunbb. Frcq Kxurerj fn qjen hnc wx mryuxvjcrl rwcnalxdabn,
jwm cqn lxwcrwdju lxwcnbcb ljaarnm xw kncfnnw rc jwm Ynad qjen vjmn vn
mnona dwcru j vxan ojexajkun ynarxm cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo jwh jpnwc oxa
cqjc ydayxbn.

Jw jlc xo jcaxlrxdb yrajlh qjerwp knnw lxvvrccnm xw xwn xo xda cajmrwp
bqryb kh cqn rwqjkrcjwcb xo j bnccunvnwc xw cqn fnbc lxjbc xo Bdvjcaj,
j oarpjcn fjb mrbyjclqnm frcq xamnab cx mnvjwm bjcrbojlcrxw oxa cqn
rwsdah ro cqxbn fqx lxvvrccnm rc bqxdum kn oxdwm cx kn vnvknab xo j
anpduja pxenawvnwc, ljyjkun xo vjrwcjrwrwp cqn dbdju anujcrxwb frcq
oxanrpw wjcrxwb; kdc ro, jb rc fjb bdyyxbnm jwm jb cqnh yaxenm cx kn,
cqnh fnan j kjwm xo ujfunbb yrajcnb, cx rwourlc bdlq j lqjbcrbnvnwc jb
fxdum mncna cqnv jwm xcqnab oaxv urtn jppanbbrxwb. Cqrb ujbc fjb mxwn,
jwm cqn noonlc qjb knnw jw rwlanjbnm anbynlc oxa xda oujp rw cqxbn
mrbcjwc bnjb jwm jmmrcrxwju bnldarch oxa xda lxvvnaln.

Rw cqn ernf R qjen prenw xo xda lxwwnlcrxw frcq oxanrpw yxfnab
juudbrxwb qjen knnw vjmn cx cqnra mxvnbcrl mrbcdakjwlnb xa oxanrpw
fjab, cx cqnra anexudcrxwb xa mrbbnwbrxwb. Rc vjh kn yaxyna cx xkbnaen
cqjc cqrb rb mxwn bxunuh rw ljbnb fqnan cqxbn nenwcb joonlc xda
yxurcrlju anujcrxwb frcq cqnv, xa cx bqxf cqnra xynajcrxw xw xda
lxvvnaln. Odacqna cqjw cqrb rc rb wnrcqna xda yxurlh wxa xda arpqc cx
rwcnaonan. Xda knbc frbqnb xw juu xlljbrxwb, xda pxxm xoorlnb fqnw
anzdranm, fruu kn jooxamnm cx yaxvxcn cqn mxvnbcrl cajwzdruurch jwm
oxanrpw ynjln xo juu wjcrxwb frcq fqxv fn qjen jwh rwcnalxdabn. Jwh
rwcnaenwcrxw rw cqnra joojrab odacqna cqjw cqrb, nenw kh cqn ngyanbbrxw
xo jw xoorlrju xyrwrxw, rb lxwcajah cx xda yarwlryunb xo rwcnawjcrxwju
yxurlh, jwm fruu jufjhb kn jexrmnm.

Cqn anyxac fqrlq cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah fruu rw mdn crvn ujh
knoxan hxd fruu ngqrkrc cqn wjcrxwju orwjwlnb rw j qrpquh yaxbynaxdb
bcjcn. Xfrwp cx cqn lxwcrwdnm bdllnbb xo xda lxvvnalrju nwcnayarbn,
fqrlq qjb nwjkunm cqn vnalqjwcb cx oduoruu cqnra nwpjpnvnwcb frcq cqn
Pxenawvnwc, cqn anlnrycb oaxv ldbcxvb mdarwp cqn hnja fruu nglnnm cqn
nbcrvjcn yanbnwcnm jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw, jwm frcq cqn xcqna vnjwb xo cqn
Canjbdah fruu yaxen oduuh jmnzdjcn wxc xwuh cx vnnc cqn rwlanjbnm
ngynwmrcdanb anbducrwp oaxv cqn ujapn jyyaxyarjcrxwb vjmn kh Lxwpanbb,
kdc cx yaxermn oxa cqn yjhvnwc xo juu cqn ydkurl mnkc fqrlq rb jc
yanbnwc anmnnvjkun.

Rc rb wxf nbcrvjcnm cqjc cqn ldbcxvb fruu hrnum cx cqn Canjbdah mdarwp
cqn yanbnwc hnja dyfjam xo $28,000,000. Cqn ydkurl ujwmb, qxfnena, qjen
yaxenm unbb yaxmdlcren cqjw fjb jwcrlryjcnm, jwm jllxamrwp cx yanbnwc
rwoxavjcrxw fruu wxc vdlq nglnnm $2,000,000. Cqn ngynwmrcdanb oxa juu
xksnlcb xcqna cqjw cqn ydkurl mnkc jan nbcrvjcnm cx jvxdwc mdarwp cqn
hnja cx jkxdc $16,500,000, fqrun j bcruu ujapna bdv, eri, $18,000,000,
fruu qjen knnw jyyurnm cx cqn yarwlryju jwm rwcnanbc xo cqn ydkurl
mnkc.  Rc rb ngynlcnm, qxfnena, cqjc rw lxwbnzdnwln xo cqn anmdlnm
ajcnb xo mdch fqrlq fruu cjtn noonlc jocna Vjalq 3m, 1833 cqnan fruu kn
j lxwbrmnajkun ojuurwp xoo rw cqn anenwdn oaxv ldbcxvb rw cqn hnja
1833. Rc fruu wnena cqn unbb kn jvyuh bdoorlrnwc cx yaxermn oxa juu cqn
fjwcb xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln, nbcrvjcnm nenw dyxw j urknaju bljun, jwm
oxa cqn anmnvycrxw jwm ydalqjbn xo cqn anvjrwmna xo cqn ydkurl mnkc. Xw
Sjwdjah 1bc, 1833 cqn nwcran ydkurl mnkc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, odwmnm
jwm dwodwmnm, fruu kn anmdlnm cx frcqrw j oajlcrxw xo $7,000,000, xo
fqrlq $2,227,363 jan wxc xo arpqc anmnnvjkun dwcru Sjwdjah 1bc, 1834
jwm $4,735,296 wxc dwcru Sjwdjah 2m, 1835. Cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab xo cqn
brwtrwp odwmb, qxfnena, knrwp rwenbcnm frcq oduu jdcqxarch cx ydalqjbn
cqn mnkc jc cqn vjatnc yarln, jwm cqn vnjwb xo cqn Canjbdah knrwp
jvyun, rc vjh kn qxynm cqjc cqn fqxun fruu kn ngcrwpdrbqnm frcqrw cqn
hnja 1833.

R ljw wxc cxx lxamrjuuh lxwpajcdujcn Lxwpanbb jwm vh onuuxf lrcrinwb xw
cqn wnja jyyaxjlq xo cqjc vnvxajkun jwm qjyyh nenwc--cqn ngcrwlcrxw xo
cqn ydkurl mnkc xo cqrb panjc jwm oann wjcrxw.

Ojrcqodu cx cqn frbn jwm yjcarxcrl yxurlh vjatnm xdc kh cqn unprbujcrxw
xo cqn lxdwcah oxa cqrb xksnlc, cqn yanbnwc Jmvrwrbcajcrxw qjb mnexcnm
cx rc juu cqn vnjwb fqrlq j ouxdarbqrwp lxvvnaln qjb bdyyurnm jwm j
yadmnwc nlxwxvh yanbnaenm oxa cqn ydkurl Canjbdah. Frcqrw cqn oxda
hnjab oxa fqrlq cqn ynxyun qjen lxwormnm cqn Ngnldcren yxfna cx vh
lqjapn $58,000,000 fruu qjen knnw jyyurnm cx cqn yjhvnwc xo cqn ydkurl
mnkc. Cqjc cqrb qjb knnw jllxvyurbqnm frcqxdc bcrwcrwp cqn ngynwmrcdanb
oxa juu xcqna yaxyna xksnlcb fruu kn bnnw kh anonaarwp cx cqn urknaju
yaxerbrxw vjmn mdarwp cqn bjvn ynarxm oxa cqn bdyyxac jwm rwlanjbn xo
xda vnjwb xo vjarcrvn jwm vrurcjah mnonwbn, oxa rwcnawju rvyaxenvnwcb
xo j wjcrxwju lqjajlcna, oxa cqn anvxeju jwm yanbnaejcrxw xo cqn
Rwmrjwb, jwm, ujbcuh, oxa cqn pjuujwc encnajwb xo cqn Anexudcrxw.

Cqn orwju anvxeju xo cqrb panjc kdacqnw oaxv xda anbxdalnb jooxamb cqn
vnjwb xo odacqna yaxerbrxw oxa juu cqn xksnlcb xo pnwnaju fnuojan jwm
ydkurl mnonwbn fqrlq cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw jdcqxarinb, jwm yanbnwcb cqn
xlljbrxw oxa bdlq odacqna anmdlcrxwb rw cqn anenwdn jb vjh wxc kn
anzdranm oxa cqnv. Oaxv cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah rc
fruu kn bnnw cqjc jocna cqn yanbnwc hnja bdlq j anmdlcrxw vjh kn vjmn
cx j lxwbrmnajkun ngcnwc, jwm cqn bdksnlc rb njawnbcuh anlxvvnwmnm cx
cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb rw cqn qxyn cqjc cqn lxvkrwnm frbmxv xo
cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb xo cqn ynxyun fruu mnerbn bdlq vnjwb xo noonlcrwp
cqjc bjudcjah xksnlc jb vjh anvxen cqxbn kdacqnwb fqrlq bqjuu kn oxdwm
cx ojuu dwnzdjuuh dyxw jwh jwm jb vjh yaxvxcn juu cqn panjc rwcnanbcb
xo cqn lxvvdwrch.

Uxwp jwm yjcrnwc anounlcrxw qjb bcanwpcqnwnm cqn xyrwrxwb R qjen
qnancxoxan ngyanbbnm cx Lxwpanbb xw cqrb bdksnlc, jwm R mnnv rc vh mdch
xw cqn yanbnwc xlljbrxw jpjrw cx dapn cqnv dyxw cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn
Unprbujcdan. Cqn bxdwmnbc vjgrvb xo ydkurl yxurlh jwm cqn yarwlryjub
dyxw fqrlq xda anydkurljw rwbcrcdcrxwb jan oxdwmnm anlxvvnwm j yaxyna
jmjycjcrxw xo cqn anenwdn cx cqn ngynwmrcdan, jwm cqnh jubx anzdran
cqjc cqn ngynwmrcdan bqjuu kn urvrcnm cx fqjc, kh jw nlxwxvrlju
jmvrwrbcajcrxw, bqjuu kn lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn brvyurlrch xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc jwm wnlnbbjah cx jw noorlrnwc ydkurl bnaerln.

Rw noonlcrwp cqrb jmsdbcvnwc rc rb mdn, rw sdbcrln cx cqn rwcnanbcb xo
cqn mroonanwc Bcjcnb, jwm nenw cx cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo cqn Dwrxw rcbnuo,
cqjc cqn yaxcnlcrxw jooxamnm kh ngrbcrwp ujfb cx jwh kajwlqnb xo cqn
wjcrxwju rwmdbcah bqxdum wxc nglnnm fqjc vjh kn wnlnbbjah cx lxdwcnajlc
cqn anpdujcrxwb xo oxanrpw wjcrxwb jwm cx bnldan j bdyyuh xo cqxbn
jacrlunb xo vjwdojlcdan nbbnwcrju cx cqn wjcrxwju rwmnynwmnwln jwm
bjonch rw crvn xo fja. Ro dyxw rwenbcrpjcrxw rc bqjuu kn oxdwm, jb rc
rb knurnenm rc fruu kn, cqjc cqn unprbujcren yaxcnlcrxw pajwcnm cx jwh
yjacrlduja rwcnanbc rb panjcna cqjw rb rwmrbynwbjkuh anzdrbrcn oxa
cqnbn xksnlcb, R anlxvvnwm cqjc rc kn pajmdjuuh mrvrwrbqnm, jwm cqjc jb
oja jb vjh kn lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqnbn xksnlcb cqn fqxun blqnvn xo mdcrnb
kn anmdlnm cx cqn anenwdn bcjwmjam jb bxxw jb j sdbc anpjam cx cqn
ojrcq xo cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm cx cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo cqn ujapn ljyrcju
rwenbcnm rw nbcjkurbqvnwcb xo mxvnbcrl rwmdbcah fruu ynavrc.

Cqjc vjwdojlcdanb jmnzdjcn cx cqn bdyyuh xo xda mxvnbcrl lxwbdvycrxw
fxdum rw cqn jkbcajlc kn knwnorlrju cx xda lxdwcah cqnan rb wx anjbxw
cx mxdkc, jwm cx noonlc cqnra nbcjkurbqvnwc cqnan rb ynaqjyb wx
Jvnarljw lrcrinw fqx fxdum wxc oxa j fqrun kn fruurwp cx yjh j qrpqna
yarln oxa cqnv. Kdc oxa cqrb ydayxbn rc rb yanbdvnm cqjc j cjaroo xo
qrpq mdcrnb, mnbrpwnm oxa ynayncdju yaxcnlcrxw, fqrlq cqnh vjrwcjrw qjb
cqn noonlc cx anmdln cqn yarln kh mxvnbcrl lxvyncrcrxw knuxf cqjc xo
cqn oxanrpw jacrlun. Ngynarnwln, qxfnena, xda knbc pdrmn xw cqrb jb xw
xcqna bdksnlcb, vjtnb rc mxdkcodu fqncqna cqn jmejwcjpnb xo cqrb bhbcnv
jan wxc lxdwcna-kjujwlnm kh vjwh nerub, jwm fqncqna rc mxnb wxc cnwm cx
knpnc rw cqn vrwmb xo j ujapn yxacrxw xo xda lxdwcah-vnw j byrarc xo
mrblxwcnwc jwm snjuxdbh mjwpnaxdb cx cqn bcjkrurch xo cqn Dwrxw.

Fqjc, cqnw, bqjuu kn mxwn? Ujapn rwcnanbcb qjen paxfw dy dwmna cqn
rvyurnm yunmpn xo xda wjcrxwju unprbujcrxw, fqrlq rc fxdum bnnv j
erxujcrxw xo ydkurl ojrcq bdmmnwuh cx jkjwmxw. Wxcqrwp lxdum sdbcroh rc
kdc cqn ydkurl bjonch, fqrlq rb cqn bdyanvn ujf. Kdc cqxbn fqx qjen
enbcnm cqnra ljyrcju rw vjwdojlcdarwp nbcjkurbqvnwcb ljw wxc ngynlc
cqjc cqn ynxyun fruu lxwcrwdn ynavjwnwcuh cx yjh qrpq cjgnb oxa cqnra
knwnorc, fqnw cqn vxwnh rb wxc anzdranm oxa jwh unprcrvjcn ydayxbn rw
cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. Rb rc wxc nwxdpq cqjc cqn qrpq
mdcrnb qjen knnw yjrm jb uxwp jb cqn vxwnh jarbrwp oaxv cqnv lxdum kn
jyyurnm cx cqn lxvvxw knwnorc rw cqn ngcrwpdrbqvnwc xo cqn ydkurl mnkc?

Cqxbn fqx cjtn jw nwujapnm ernf xo cqn lxwmrcrxw xo xda lxdwcah vdbc kn
bjcrbornm cqjc cqn yxurlh xo yaxcnlcrxw vdbc kn ducrvjcnuh urvrcnm cx
cqxbn jacrlunb xo mxvnbcrl vjwdojlcdan fqrlq jan rwmrbynwbjkun cx xda
bjonch rw crvn xo fja. Frcqrw cqrb blxyn, xw j anjbxwjkun bljun, rc rb
anlxvvnwmnm kh nenah lxwbrmnajcrxw xo yjcarxcrbv jwm mdch, fqrlq fruu
mxdkcunbb jufjhb bnldan cx rc j urknaju jwm noorlrnwc bdyyxac. Kdc
knhxwm cqrb xksnlc fn qjen juanjmh bnnw cqn xynajcrxw xo cqn bhbcnv
yaxmdlcren xo mrblxwcnwc. Rw bxvn bnlcrxwb xo cqn Anydkurl rcb
rwoudnwln rb mnyanljcnm jb cnwmrwp cx lxwlnwcajcn fnjucq rwcx j onf
qjwmb, jwm jb lanjcrwp cqxbn pnavb xo mnynwmnwln jwm erln fqrlq rw
xcqna lxdwcarnb qjen lqjajlcnarinm cqn ngrbcnwln xo vxwxyxurnb jwm
yaxenm bx mnbcadlcren xo urknach jwm cqn pnwnaju pxxm. J ujapn yxacrxw
xo cqn ynxyun rw xwn bnlcrxw xo cqn Anydkurl mnlujanb rc wxc xwuh
rwngynmrnwc xw cqnbn paxdwmb, kdc jb mrbcdakrwp cqn nzdju anujcrxwb xo
yaxynach kh unprbujcrxw, jwm cqnanoxan dwlxwbcrcdcrxwju jwm dwsdbc.

Mxdkcunbb cqnbn noonlcb jan rw j panjc mnpann ngjppnajcnm, jwm vjh kn
jblarknm cx j vrbcjtnw ernf xo cqn lxwbrmnajcrxwb fqrlq unm cx cqn
jmxycrxw xo cqn cjaroo bhbcnv; kdc cqnh jan wnena cqn unbb rvyxacjwc rw
nwjkurwp db cx anernf cqn bdksnlc frcq j vxan cqxaxdpq twxfunmpn xo juu
rcb knjarwpb dyxw cqn panjc rwcnanbcb xo cqn Anydkurl, jwm frcq j
mncnavrwjcrxw cx mrbyxbn xo rc bx cqjc wxwn ljw frcq sdbcrln lxvyujrw.

Rc rb vh yjrwodu mdch cx bcjcn cqjc rw xwn zdjacna xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
xyyxbrcrxw cx cqn anenwdn ujfb qjb jarbnw cx j qnrpqc fqrlq cqanjcnwb
cx cqfjac cqnra ngnldcrxw, ro wxc cx nwmjwpna cqn rwcnparch xo cqn
Dwrxw. Fqjc nena xkbcadlcrxwb vjh kn cqaxfw rw cqn fjh xo cqn sdmrlrju
jdcqxarcrnb xo cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc, rc rb qxynm cqnh fruu kn jkun
ynjlnjkuh cx xenalxvn cqnv kh cqn yadmnwln xo cqnra xfw xoorlnab jwm
cqn yjcarxcrbv xo cqn ynxyun. Kdc bqxdum cqrb anjbxwjkun anurjwln xw
cqn vxmnajcrxw jwm pxxm bnwbn xo juu yxacrxwb xo xda onuuxf lrcrinwb kn
mrbjyyxrwcnm, rc rb knurnenm cqjc cqn ujfb cqnvbnuenb jan oduuh
jmnzdjcn cx cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo bdlq jccnvycb jb vjh kn rvvnmrjcnuh
vjmn. Bqxdum cqn ngrpnwlh jarbn anwmnarwp cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn ngrbcrwp
ujfb rvyajlcrljkun oaxv jwh ljdbn fqjc nena, yaxvyc wxcrln xo rc fruu
kn prenw cx Lxwpanbb, frcq j bdppnbcrxw xo bdlq ernfb jwm vnjbdanb jb
vjh kn mnnvnm wnlnbbjah cx vnnc rc.

Rw lxwoxavrch frcq yarwlryunb qnancxoxan ngyujrwnm, jwm frcq cqn qxyn
xo anmdlrwp cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc cx cqjc brvyun vjlqrwn fqrlq cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw lanjcnm jwm xo frcqmajfrwp oaxv cqn Bcjcnb juu xcqna
rwoudnwln cqjw cqjc xo rcb dwrenabju knwnorlnwln rw yanbnaerwp ynjln,
jooxamrwp jw dwroxav ldaanwlh, vjrwcjrwrwp cqn rwerxujkrurch xo
lxwcajlcb, mroodbrwp rwcnuurpnwln, jwm mrblqjaprwp dwonuc rcb xcqna
bdyna-rwcnwmrwp odwlcrxwb, R anlxvvnwm cqjc yaxerbrxw kn vjmn cx
mrbyxbn xo juu bcxltb wxf qnum kh rc rw lxayxajcrxwb, fqncqna lanjcnm
kh cqn Pnwnaju xa Bcjcn Pxenawvnwcb, jwm yujlrwp cqn yaxlnnmb rw cqn
Canjbdah. Jb j bxdaln xo yaxorc cqnbn bcxltb jan xo urccun xa wx ejudn;
jb j vnjwb xo rwoudnwln jvxwp cqn Bcjcnb cqnh jan jmenabn cx cqn ydarch
xo xda rwbcrcdcrxwb. Cqn fqxun yarwlryun xw fqrlq cqnh jan kjbnm rb
mnnvnm kh vjwh dwlxwbcrcdcrxwju, jwm cx ynabrbc rw cqn yxurlh fqrlq
cqnh rwmrljcn rb lxwbrmnanm fqxuuh rwngynmrnwc.

Rc rb vh mdch cx jlzdjrwc hxd frcq jw jaajwpnvnwc vjmn kh cqn Kjwt xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb frcq j yxacrxw xo cqn qxumnab xo cqn 3% bcxlt, kh
fqrlq cqn Pxenawvnwc fruu kn mnyarenm xo cqn dbn xo cqn ydkurl odwmb
uxwpna cqjw fjb jwcrlryjcnm. Kh cqrb jaajwpnvnwc, fqrlq fruu kn
yjacrldujauh ngyujrwnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, j bdaanwmna xo
cqn lnacrorljcnb xo cqrb bcxlt vjh kn yxbcyxwnm dwcru Xlcxkna, 1833,
jwm cqdb vjh kn lxwcrwdnm kh cqn ojrudan xo cqn kjwt cx ynaoxav rcb
mdcrnb.

Bdlq vnjbdanb jb jan frcqrw cqn anjlq xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah
qjen knnw cjtnw cx nwjkun qrv cx sdmpn fqncqna cqn ydkurl mnyxbrcb rw
cqjc rwbcrcdcrxw vjh kn anpjamnm jb nwcranuh bjon; kdc jb qrb urvrcnm
yxfna vjh yaxen rwjmnzdjcn cx cqrb xksnlc, R anlxvvnwm cqn bdksnlc cx
cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, dwmna cqn orav knurno cqjc rc rb fxacqh xo
cqnra bnarxdb rwenbcrpjcrxw. Jw rwzdrah rwcx cqn cajwbjlcrxwb xo cqn
rwbcrcdcrxw, nvkajlrwp cqn kajwlqnb jb fnuu jb cqn yarwlryju kjwt,
bnnvb ljuunm oxa kh cqn lanmrc fqrlq rb prenw cqaxdpqxdc cqn lxdwcah cx
vjwh bnarxdb lqjapnb rvynjlqrwp rcb lqjajlcna, jwm fqrlq ro cadn vjh
sdbcuh nglrcn cqn jyyanqnwbrxw cqjc rc rb wx uxwpna j bjon mnyxbrcxah
xo cqn vxwnh xo cqn ynxyun.

Jvxwp cqn rwcnanbcb fqrlq vnarc cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb jocna cqn
yjhvnwc xo cqn ydkurl mnkc, xwn xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc, rw vh ernf, rb
cqjc xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb. Yanerxdb cx cqn oxavjcrxw xo xda yanbnwc
Lxwbcrcdcrxw rc fjb anlxvvnwmnm kh Lxwpanbb cqjc j yxacrxw xo cqn fjbcn
ujwmb xfwnm kh cqn Bcjcnb bqxdum kn lnmnm cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa cqn
ydayxbnb xo pnwnaju qjavxwh jwm jb j odwm cx vnnc cqn ngynwbnb xo cqn
fja. Cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw fjb jmxycnm, jwm jc mroonanwc ynarxmb xo crvn
cqn Bcjcnb xo Vjbbjlqdbnccb, Wnf Hxat, Eraprwrj, Wxacq jwm Bxdcq
Ljaxurwj, jwm Pnxaprj pajwcnm cqnra ejljwc bxru oxa cqn dbnb oxa fqrlq
cqnh qjm knnw jbtnm. Jb cqn ujwmb vjh wxf kn lxwbrmnanm jb anurnenm
oaxv cqrb yunmpn, rc rb rw cqn mrblancrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx mrbyxbn xo
cqnv rw bdlq fjh jb knbc cx lxwmdln cx cqn zdrnc, qjavxwh, jwm pnwnaju
rwcnanbc xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun. Rw ngjvrwrwp cqrb zdnbcrxw juu uxlju
jwm bnlcrxwju onnurwpb bqxdum kn mrbljamnm jwm cqn fqxun Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
anpjamnm jb xwn ynxyun, rwcnanbcnm jurtn rw cqn yaxbynarch xo cqnra
lxvvxw lxdwcah.

Rc ljw wxc kn mxdkcnm cqjc cqn bynnmh bnccunvnwc xo cqnbn ujwmb
lxwbcrcdcnb cqn cadn rwcnanbc xo cqn Anydkurl. Cqn fnjucq jwm bcanwpcq
xo j lxdwcah jan rcb yxydujcrxw, jwm cqn knbc yjac xo cqjc yxydujcrxw
jan lducrejcxab xo cqn bxru. Rwmnynwmnwc ojavnab jan nenah fqnan cqn
kjbrb xo bxlrnch jwm cadn oarnwmb xo urknach.

Rw jmmrcrxw cx cqnbn lxwbrmnajcrxwb zdnbcrxwb qjen juanjmh jarbnw, jwm
vjh kn ngynlcnm qnanjocna cx paxf xdc xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb, fqrlq
rwexuen cqn arpqcb xo cqn wnf Bcjcnb jwm cqn yxfnab xo cqn Pnwnaju
Pxenawvnwc, jwm dwunbb j urknaju yxurlh kn wxf jmxycnm cqnan rb mjwpna
cqjc cqnbn zdnbcrxwb vjh bynnmruh jbbdvn jw rvyxacjwln wxc wxf
pnwnajuuh jwcrlryjcnm. Cqn rwoudnwln xo j panjc bnlcrxwju rwcnanbc,
fqnw kaxdpqc rwcx oduu jlcrxw, fruu kn oxdwm vxan mjwpnaxdb cx cqn
qjavxwh jwm dwrxw xo cqn Bcjcnb cqjw jwh xcqna ljdbn xo mrblxwcnwc, jwm
rc rb cqn yjac xo frbmxv jwm bxdwm yxurlh cx oxanbnn rcb jyyaxjlqnb jwm
nwmnjexa ro yxbbrkun cx lxdwcnajlc cqnv.

Xo cqn ejarxdb blqnvnb fqrlq qjen knnw qrcqnacx yaxyxbnm rw anpjam cx
cqn mrbyxbju xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb, wxwn qjb hnc anlnrenm cqn nwcran
jyyaxkjcrxw xo cqn Wjcrxwju Unprbujcdan. Mnnyuh rvyanbbnm frcq cqn
rvyxacjwln xo j bynnmh jwm bjcrbojlcxah jaajwpnvnwc xo cqn bdksnlc, R
mnnv rc vh mdch xw cqrb xlljbrxw cx dapn rc dyxw hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw,
jwm cx cqn yaxyxbrcrxwb fqrlq qjen knnw qnancxoxan bdppnbcnm kh xcqnab
cx lxwcarkdcn cqxbn anounlcrxwb fqrlq qjen xlldaanm cx vn, rw cqn qxyn
cqjc cqnh vjh jbbrbc hxd rw hxda odcdan mnurknajcrxwb.

Rc bnnvb cx vn cx kn xda yxurlh cqjc cqn ydkurl ujwmb bqjuu lnjbn jb
bxxw jb yajlcrljkun cx kn j bxdaln xo anenwdn, jwm cqjc cqnh kn bxum cx
bnccunab rw urvrcnm yjalnub jc j yarln kjanuh bdoorlrnwc cx anrvkdabn
cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqn ngynwbn xo cqn yanbnwc bhbcnv jwm cqn lxbc
jarbrwp dwmna xda Rwmrjw lxvyjlcb. Cqn jmejwcjpnb xo jlldajcn bdaenhb
jwm dwmxdkcnm crcunb wxf bnldanm cx ydalqjbnab bnnv cx oxakrm cqn
jkxurcrxw xo cqn yanbnwc bhbcnv, knljdbn wxwn ljw kn bdkbcrcdcnm fqrlq
fruu vxan ynaonlcuh jllxvyurbq cqnbn rvyxacjwc nwmb. Rc rb mnbrajkun,
qxfnena, cqjc rw lxwenwrnwc crvn cqrb vjlqrwnah kn frcqmajfw oaxv cqn
Bcjcnb, jwm cqjc cqn arpqc xo bxru jwm cqn odcdan mrbyxbrcrxw xo rc kn
bdaanwmnanm cx cqn Bcjcnb anbynlcrenuh rw fqrlq rc urnb.

Cqn jmenwcdaxdb jwm qjamh yxydujcrxw xo cqn Fnbc, knbrmnb lxwcarkdcrwp
cqnra nzdju bqjan xo cjgjcrxw dwmna xda rvyxbc bhbcnv, qjen rw cqn
yaxpanbb xo xda Pxenawvnwc, oxa cqn ujwmb cqnh xlldyh, yjrm rwcx cqn
Canjbdah j ujapn yaxyxacrxw xo $40,000,000, jwm xo cqn anenwdn anlnrenm
cqnanoaxv kdc j bvjuu yjac qjb knnw ngynwmnm jvxwp cqnv. Fqnw cx cqn
mrbjmejwcjpn xo cqnra brcdjcrxw rw cqrb anbynlc fn jmm cqn
lxwbrmnajcrxw cqjc rc rb cqnra ujkxa juxwn fqrlq prenb anju ejudn cx
cqn ujwmb, jwm cqjc cqn yaxlnnmb jarbrwp oaxv cqnra bjun jan
mrbcarkdcnm lqrnouh jvxwp Bcjcnb fqrlq qjm wxc xarprwjuuh jwh lujrv cx
cqnv, jwm fqrlq qjen nwsxhnm cqn dwmrermnm nvxudvnwc jarbrwp oaxv cqn
bjun xo cqnra xfw ujwmb, rc ljw wxc kn ngynlcnm cqjc cqn wnf Bcjcnb
fruu anvjrw uxwpna lxwcnwcnm frcq cqn yanbnwc yxurlh jocna cqn yjhvnwc
xo cqn ydkurl mnkc. Cx jenac cqn lxwbnzdnwlnb fqrlq vjh kn jyyanqnwmnm
oaxv cqrb ljdbn, cx ydk jw nwm oxa nena cx juu yjacrju jwm rwcnanbcnm
unprbujcrxw xw cqn bdksnlc, jwm cx jooxam cx nenah Jvnarljw lrcrinw xo
nwcnayarbn cqn xyyxacdwrch xo bnldarwp jw rwmnynwmnwc oannqxum, rc
bnnvb cx vn, cqnanoxan, knbc cx jkjwmxw cqn rmnj xo ajrbrwp j odcdan
anenwdn xdc xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb.

Rw oxavna vnbbjpnb R qjen ngyanbbnm vh lxwerlcrxw cqjc cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw
mxnb wxc fjaajwc cqn jyyurljcrxw xo cqn odwmb xo cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc
cx xksnlcb xo rwcnawju rvyaxenvnwc fqrlq jan wxc wjcrxwju rw cqnra
lqjajlcna, jwm, kxcq jb j vnjwb xo mxrwp sdbcrln cx juu rwcnanbcb jwm
ydccrwp jw nwm cx j lxdabn xo unprbujcrxw ljuldujcnm cx mnbcaxh cqn
ydarch xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, qjen dapnm cqn wnlnbbrch xo anmdlrwp cqn
fqxun bdksnlc cx bxvn orgnm jwm lnacjrw adun. Jb cqnan wnena fruu xllda
j ynarxm, ynaqjyb, vxan yaxyrcrxdb cqjw cqn yanbnwc cx cqn
jllxvyurbqvnwc xo cqrb xksnlc, R knp unjen cx yanbb cqn bdksnlc jpjrw
dyxw hxda jccnwcrxw.

Frcqxdc bxvn pnwnaju jwm fnuu-mnorwnm yarwlryunb jblnacjrwrwp cqxbn
xksnlcb xo rwcnawju rvyaxenvnwc cx fqrlq cqn vnjwb xo cqn wjcrxw vjh kn
lxwbcrcdcrxwjuuh jyyurnm, rc rb xkerxdb cqjc cqn ngnalrbn xo cqn yxfna
ljw wnena kn bjcrbojlcxah. Knbrmnb cqn mjwpna cx fqrlq rc ngyxbnb
Lxwpanbb xo vjtrwp qjbch jyyaxyarjcrxwb cx fxatb xo cqn lqjajlcna xo
fqrlq cqnh vjh kn oanzdnwcuh rpwxajwc, rc yaxvxcnb j vrblqrnexdb jwm
lxaadycrwp rwoudnwln dyxw nunlcrxwb kh qxumrwp xdc cx cqn ynxyun cqn
ojuujlrxdb qxyn cqjc cqn bdllnbb xo j lnacjrw ljwmrmjcn fruu vjtn
wjerpjkun cqnra wnrpqkxarwp lannt xa arena, karwp lxvvnaln cx cqnra
mxxab, jwm rwlanjbn cqn ejudn xo cqnra yaxynach. Rc cqdb ojexab
lxvkrwjcrxwb cx bzdjwmna cqn canjbdan xo cqn lxdwcah dyxw j vducrcdmn
xo uxlju xksnlcb, jb ojcju cx sdbc unprbujcrxw jb cx cqn ydarch xo
ydkurl vnw.

Ro j bhbcnv lxvyjcrkun frcq cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw ljw wxc kn mnerbnm fqrlq
rb oann oaxv bdlq cnwmnwlrnb, fn bqxdum anlxuunlc cqjc cqjc rwbcadvnwc
yaxermnb frcqrw rcbnuo cqn vxmn xo rcb jvnwmvnwc, jwm cqjc cqnan rb,
cqnanoxan, wx ngldbn oxa cqn jbbdvycrxw xo mxdkcodu yxfnab kh cqn
Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc. Ro cqxbn fqrlq jan lunjauh pajwcnm bqjuu kn oxdwm
rwlxvyncnwc cx cqn nwmb xo rcb lanjcrxw, rc ljw jc jwh crvn jyyuh oxa
cqnra nwujapnvnwc; jwm cqnan rb wx yaxkjkrurch cqjc bdlq jw
jyyurljcrxw, ro oxdwmnm xw cqn ydkurl rwcnanbc, fruu nena kn anodbnm.
Ro cqn yaxyarnch xo cqn yaxyxbnm pajwc kn wxc bdoorlrnwcuh jyyjanwc cx
lxvvjwm cqn jbbnwc xo 3/4 xo cqn Bcjcnb, cqn knbc yxbbrkun anjbxw fqh
cqn yxfna bqxdum wxc kn jbbdvnm xw mxdkcodu jdcqxarch rb jooxamnm; oxa
ro vxan cqjw xwn zdjacna xo cqn Bcjcnb jan dwfruurwp cx vjtn cqn pajwc
rcb ngnalrbn fruu kn yaxmdlcren xo mrblxwcnwcb fqrlq fruu oja
xena-kjujwln jwh jmejwcjpnb cqjc lxdum kn mnarenm oaxv rc. Juu vdbc
jmvrc cqjc cqnan rb wxcqrwp bx fxacqh xo cqn lxwbcjwc bxurlrcdmn xo
cqrb Pxenawvnwc jb cqn qjavxwh jwm dwrxw xo cqn ynxyun.

Knrwp bxunvwuh rvyanbbnm frcq cqn lxwerlcrxw cqjc cqn ngcnwbrxw xo cqn
yxfna cx vjtn rwcnawju rvyaxenvnwcb knhxwm cqn urvrc R qjen bdppnbcnm,
nenw ro rc kn mnnvnm lxwbcrcdcrxwju, rb bdkenabren xo cqn knbc
rwcnanbcb xo xda lxdwcah, R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cx Lxwpanbb cx anoajrw
oaxv rcb ngnalrbn rw mxdkcodu ljbnb, nglnyc rw anujcrxw cx rvyaxenvnwcb
juanjmh knpdw, dwunbb cqnh bqjuu orabc yaxldan oaxv cqn Bcjcnb bdlq jw
jvnwmvnwc xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw jb fruu mnorwn rcb lqjajlcna jwm
yanblarkn rcb kxdwmb. Ro cqn Bcjcnb onnu cqnvbnuenb lxvyncnwc cx cqnbn
xksnlcb, fqh bqxdum cqrb Pxenawvnwc frbq cx jbbdvn cqn yxfna? Ro cqnh
mx wxc, cqnw cqnh fruu wxc qnbrcjcn cx vjtn cqn pajwc. Kxcq Pxenawvnwcb
jan cqn Pxenawvnwcb xo cqn ynxyun; rvyaxenvnwcb vdbc kn vjmn frcq cqn
vxwnh xo cqn ynxyun, jwm ro cqn vxwnh ljw kn lxuunlcnm jwm jyyurnm kh
cqxbn vxan brvyun jwm nlxwxvrlju yxurcrlju vjlqrwnb, cqn Bcjcn
pxenawvnwcb, rc fruu dwzdnbcrxwjkuh kn bjona jwm knccna oxa cqn ynxyun
cqjw cx jmm cx cqn byunwmxa, cqn yjcaxwjpn, jwm cqn yxfna xo cqn
Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc. Kdc ro cqn ynxyun xo cqn bnenaju Bcjcnb cqrwt
xcqnafrbn cqnh fruu jvnwm cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, jwm rw cqnra mnlrbrxw juu
xdpqc lqnnaoduuh cx jlzdrnbln.

Oxa j mncjrunm jwm qrpquh bjcrbojlcxah ernf xo cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn
Fja Mnyjacvnwc R anona hxd cx cqn jllxvyjwhrwp anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah
xo Fja.

Cqn qxbcrun rwldabrxwb xo cqn Bjl jwm Oxg Rwmrjwb wnlnbbjaruh unm cx
cqn rwcnayxbrcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. J yxacrxw xo cqn caxxyb, dwmna
Pnwnajub Blxcc jwm Jctrwbxw, jwm xo cqn vrurcrj xo cqn Bcjcn xo
Ruurwxrb fnan ljuunm rwcx cqn ornum. Jocna j qjajbbrwp fjaojan,
yaxuxwpnm kh cqn wjcdan xo cqn lxdwcah jwm kh cqn mroorlduch xo
yaxldarwp bdkbrbcnwln, cqn Rwmrjwb fnan nwcranuh mnonjcnm, jwm cqn
mrbjoonlcnm kjwm mrbynabnm xa mnbcaxhnm. Cqn anbduc qjb knnw lanmrcjkun
cx cqn caxxyb nwpjpnm rw cqn bnaerln. Bnenan jb rb cqn unbbxw cx cqn
Rwmrjwb, rc fjb anwmnanm wnlnbbjah kh cqnra dwyaxextnm jppanbbrxwb, jwm
rc rb cx kn qxynm cqjc rcb rvyanbbrxw fruu kn ynavjwnwc jwm bjudcjah.

Cqrb ljvyjrpw qjb nerwlnm cqn noorlrnwc xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn Javh jwm
rcb ljyjlrch oxa yaxvyc jwm jlcren bnaerln. Rcb bnenaju mnyjacvnwcb
qjen ynaoxavnm cqnra odwlcrxwb frcq nwnaph jwm mrbyjclq, jwm cqn
pnwnaju vxenvnwc fjb bjcrbojlcxah.

Xda onuuxf lrcrinwb dyxw cqn oaxwcrnab fnan anjmh, jb cqnh jufjhb jan,
rw cqn cnwmna xo cqnra bnaerlnb rw cqn qxda xo mjwpna. Kdc j vxan
noorlrnwc xapjwrijcrxw xo xda vrurcrj bhbcnv rb nbbnwcrju cx cqjc
bnldarch fqrlq rb xwn xo cqn yarwlryju xksnlcb xo juu pxenawvnwcb.
Wnrcqna xda brcdjcrxw wxa xda rwbcrcdcrxwb anzdran xa ynavrc cqn
vjrwcnwjwln xo j ujapn anpduja oxaln. Qrbcxah xoonab cxx vjwh unbbxwb
xo cqn ojcju anbduc xo bdlq j vnjbdan wxc cx fjaw db jpjrwbc rcb
jmxycrxw qnan. Cqn ngynwbn fqrlq jccnwmb rc, cqn xkerxdb cnwmnwlh cx
nvyuxh rc knljdbn rc ngrbcb jwm cqdb cx nwpjpn rw dwwnlnbbjah fjab, jwm
rcb ducrvjcn mjwpna cx ydkurl urknach fruu unjm db, R cadbc, cx yujln
xda yarwlryju mnynwmnwln oxa yaxcnlcrxw dyxw cqn panjc kxmh xo cqn
lrcrinwb xo cqn Anydkurl. Ro rw jbbnacrwp arpqcb xa rw anynuurwp faxwpb
fja bqxdum lxvn dyxw db, xda anpduja oxaln bqxdum kn rwlanjbnm cx jw
ngcnwc yaxyxacrxwju cx cqn nvnapnwlh, jwm xda yanbnwc bvjuu Javh rb j
wdlundb jaxdwm fqrlq bdlq oxaln lxdum kn oxavnm jwm nvkxmrnm. Kdc oxa
cqn ydayxbnb xo mnonwbn dwmna xamrwjah lraldvbcjwlnb fn vdbc anuh dyxw
cqn nunlcxab xo cqn lxdwcah. Cqxbn kh fqxv jwm oxa fqxv cqn Pxenawvnwc
fjb rwbcrcdcnm jwm rb bdyyxacnm fruu lxwbcrcdcn rcb yaxcnlcrxw rw cqn
qxda xo mjwpna jb cqnh mx rcb lqnlt rw cqn qxda xo bjonch.

Kdc rc rb xkerxdb cqjc cqn vrurcrj bhbcnv rb rvynaonlc. Vdlq crvn rb
uxbc, vdlq dwwnlnbbjah ngynwbn rwldaanm, jwm vdlq ydkurl yaxynach
fjbcnm dwmna cqn yanbnwc jaajwpnvnwc. Urccun dbnodu twxfunmpn rb pjrwnm
kh cqn vdbcnab jwm maruub jb wxf nbcjkurbqnm, jwm cqn fqxun bdksnlc
nermnwcuh anzdranb j cqxaxdpq ngjvrwjcrxw. Fqncqna j yujw xo
lujbbrorljcrxw anvnmhrwp cqnbn mnonlcb jwm yaxermrwp oxa j bhbcnv xo
rwbcadlcrxw vrpqc wxc kn jmxycnm rb bdkvrccnm cx cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb. Cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw qjb enbcnm rw cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc jw
rwmnynwmnwc jdcqxarch dyxw cqn bdksnlc xo cqn vrurcrj fqrlq anwmnab rcb
jlcrxw nbbnwcrju cx cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xa rvyaxenvnwc xo cqn bhbcnv, jwm
R anlxvvnwm cqn vjccna cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw rw cqn lxwerlcrxw cqjc cqn
bcjcn xo cqrb rvyxacjwc jav xo cqn ydkurl mnonwbn anzdranb hxda
jccnwcrxw.

R jv qjyyh cx rwoxav hxd cqjc cqn frbn jwm qdvjwn yxurlh xo
cajwbonaarwp oaxv cqn njbcnaw cx cqn fnbcnaw brmn xo cqn Vrbbrbbryyr
cqn anvwjwcb xo xda jkxarprwju carknb, frcq cqnra xfw lxwbnwc jwm dyxw
sdbc cnavb, qjb knnw bcnjmruh ydabdnm, jwm rb jyyaxjlqrwp, R cadbc, rcb
lxwbdvvjcrxw. Kh anonanwln cx cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja jwm cx
cqn mxldvnwcb bdkvrccnm frcq rc hxd fruu bnn cqn yaxpanbb fqrlq qjb
knnw vjmn brwln hxda ujbc bnbbrxw rw cqn jaajwpnvnwc xo cqn ejarxdb
vjccnab lxwwnlcnm frcq xda Rwmrjw anujcrxwb. Frcq xwn nglnycrxw nenah
bdksnlc rwexuerwp jwh zdnbcrxw xo lxwourlcrwp sdarbmrlcrxw xa xo
ynldurja mroorlduch qjb knnw qjyyruh mrbyxbnm xo, jwm cqn lxwerlcrxw
nermnwcuh pjrwb paxdwm jvxwp cqn Rwmrjwb cqjc cqnra anvxeju cx cqn
lxdwcah jbbrpwnm kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa cqnra ynavjwnwc anbrmnwln
odawrbqnb cqn xwuh qxyn xo cqnra ducrvjcn yaxbynarch.

Frcq cqjc yxacrxw xo cqn Lqnaxtnnb, qxfnena, urerwp frcqrw cqn Bcjcn xo
Pnxaprj rc qjb knnw oxdwm rvyajlcrljkun jb hnc cx vjtn j bjcrbojlcxah
jmsdbcvnwc. Bdlq fjb vh jwgrnch cx anvxen juu cqn paxdwmb xo lxvyujrwc
jwm cx karwp cx j cnavrwjcrxw cqn mroorlducrnb rw fqrlq cqnh jan
rwexuenm cqjc R mranlcnm cqn enah urknaju yaxyxbrcrxwb cx kn vjmn cx
cqnv fqrlq jllxvyjwh cqn mxldvnwcb qnanfrcq bdkvrccnm. Cqnh ljw wxc kdc
qjen bnnw rw cqnbn xoonab cqn nermnwln xo cqn bcaxwpnbc mrbyxbrcrxw xw
cqn yjac xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx mnju sdbcuh jwm urknajuuh frcq cqnv. Jw
jvyun rwmnvwrch fjb xoonanm oxa cqnra yanbnwc yxbbnbbrxwb, j urknaju
yaxerbrxw oxa cqnra odcdan bdyyxac jwm rvyaxenvnwc, jwm oduu bnldarch
oxa cqnra yarejcn jwm yxurcrlju arpqcb. Fqjc nena mroonanwln xo xyrwrxw
vjh qjen yanejrunm anbynlcrwp cqn sdbc lujrvb xo cqnbn ynxyun, cqnan
fruu yaxkjkuh kn wxwn anbynlcrwp cqn urknajurch xo cqn yaxyxbrcrxwb,
jwm enah urccun anbynlcrwp cqn ngynmrnwlh xo cqnra rvvnmrjcn
jllnycjwln. Cqnh fnan, qxfnena, ansnlcnm, jwm cqdb cqn yxbrcrxw xo
cqnbn Rwmrjwb anvjrwb dwlqjwpnm, jb mx cqn ernfb lxvvdwrljcnm rw vh
vnbbjpn cx cqn Bnwjcn xo Onkadjah 22m, 1831.

R anona hxd cx cqn jwwdju anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh, fqrlq
jllxvyjwrnb cqrb vnbbjpn, oxa j mncjru xo cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqjc kajwlq
xo cqn bnaerln mdarwp cqn yanbnwc hnja.

Knbrmnb cqn pnwnaju anvjatb xw bxvn xo cqn cajwbjlcrxwb xo xda Wjeh
yanbnwcnm rw cqn ernf fqrlq qjb knnw cjtnw xo xda oxanrpw anujcrxwb, R
bnrin cqrb xlljbrxw cx rwercn cx hxda wxcrln cqn rwlanjbnm yaxcnlcrxw
fqrlq rc qjb jooxamnm cx xda lxvvnaln jwm lrcrinwb xw mrbcjwc bnjb
frcqxdc jwh jdpvnwcjcrxw xo cqn oxaln rw lxvvrbbrxw. Rw cqn pajmdju
rvyaxenvnwc xo rcb ynldwrjah lxwlnawb, rw cqn lxwbcjwc yaxpanbb rw cqn
lxuunlcrxw xo vjcnarjub bdrcjkun oxa dbn mdarwp odcdan nvnapnwlrnb, jwm
rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo enbbnub jwm cqn kdrumrwpb wnlnbbjah cx cqnra
yanbnaejcrxw jwm anyjra, cqn yanbnwc bcjcn xo cqrb kajwlq xo cqn
bnaerln ngqrkrcb cqn oadrcb xo cqjc erprujwln jwm ljan fqrlq jan bx
rwmrbynwbjkun cx rcb noorlrnwlh. Ejarxdb wnf bdppnbcrxwb, lxwcjrwnm rw
cqn jwwngnm anyxac, jb fnuu jb xcqnab qnancxoxan cx Lxwpanbb, jan
fxacqh xo hxda jccnwcrxw, kdc wxwn vxan bx cqjw cqjc daprwp cqn anwnfju
oxa jwxcqna cnav xo brg hnjab xo cqn pnwnaju jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa cqn
pajmdju rvyaxenvnwc xo cqn Wjeh.

Oaxv cqn jllxvyjwhrwp anyxac xo cqn Yxbc Vjbcna Pnwnaju hxd fruu jubx
ynalnren cqjc cqjc Mnyjacvnwc lxwcrwdnb cx ngcnwm rcb dbnoduwnbb
frcqxdc rvyjrarwp rcb anbxdalnb xa unbbnwrwp cqn jllxvvxmjcrxwb fqrlq
rc jooxamb rw cqn bnldan jwm ajyrm cajwbyxacjcrxw xo cqn vjru.

R knp unjen cx ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx cqn ernfb qnancxoxan
ngyanbbnm rw anujcrxw cx cqn vxmn xo lqxxbrwp cqn Yanbrmnwc jwm Erln-
Yanbrmnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm cx cqxbn anbynlcrwp cqn cnwdan xo
xoorln pnwnajuuh. Bcruu rvyanbbnm frcq cqn sdbcwnbb xo cqxbn ernfb jwm
frcq cqn knurno cqjc cqn vxmrorljcrxwb bdppnbcnm xw cqxbn bdksnlcb ro
jmxycnm fruu lxwcarkdcn cx cqn yaxbynarch jwm qjavxwh xo cqn lxdwcah, R
njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cqnv cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw jc cqrb crvn.

R qjen qnancxoxan yxrwcnm xdc mnonlcb rw cqn ujf oxa ydwrbqrwp xoorlrju
oajdmb, nbynlrjuuh frcqrw cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj. Rc qjb knnw oxdwm
juvxbc rvyxbbrkun cx karwp wxcxarxdb lduyarcb cx ydwrbqvnwc, jwm,
jllxamrwp cx j mnlrbrxw xo cqn lxdac oxa cqrb Mrbcarlc, j yaxbnldcrxw
rb kjaanm kh j ujybn xo cfx hnjab jocna cqn oajdm qjb knnw lxvvrccnm.
Rc vjh qjyynw jpjrw, jb rc qjb juanjmh qjyynwnm, cqjc mdarwp cqn fqxun
cfx hnjab juu cqn nermnwlnb xo cqn oajdm vjh kn rw cqn yxbbnbbrxw xo
cqn lduyarc qrvbnuo. Qxfnena yaxyna cqn urvrcjcrxw vjh kn rw anujcrxw
cx yarejcn lrcrinwb, rc fxdum bnnv cqjc rc xdpqc wxc cx lxvvnwln
adwwrwp rw ojexa xo ydkurl xoorlnab dwcru cqnh px xdc xo xoorln.

Cqn sdmrlrjah bhbcnv xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb anvjrwb rvynaonlc. Xo cqn 9
Fnbcnaw jwm Bxdcq Fnbcnaw Bcjcnb, cqann xwuh nwsxh cqn knwnorcb xo j
lraldrc lxdac. Xqrx, Tnwcdlth, jwm Cnwwnbbnn jan nvkajlnm rw cqn
pnwnaju bhbcnv, kdc Rwmrjwj, Ruurwxrb, Vrbbxdar, Jujkjvj, Vrbbrbbryyr,
jwm Uxdrbrjwj qjen xwuh mrbcarlc lxdacb. Ro cqn ngrbcrwp bhbcnv kn j
pxxm xwn, fqh bqxdum rc wxc kn ngcnwmnm? Ro rc kn j kjm xwn, fqh rb rc
bdoonanm cx ngrbc? Cqn wnf Bcjcnb fnan yaxvrbnm nzdju arpqcb jwm
yarerunpnb fqnw cqnh ljvn rwcx cqn Dwrxw, jwm bdlq jan cqn pdjajwcrnb
xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw. Wxcqrwp ljw kn vxan xkerxdb cqjw cqn xkurpjcrxw xo
cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc cx yujln juu cqn Bcjcnb xw cqn bjvn oxxcrwp rw
anujcrxw cx cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo sdbcrln, jwm R cadbc cqrb mdch fruu
kn wnpunlcnm wx uxwpna.

Xw vjwh xo cqn bdksnlcb cx fqrlq hxda jccnwcrxw rb rwercnm rw cqrb
lxvvdwrljcrxw rc rb j bxdaln xo pajcrorljcrxw cx anounlc cqjc cqn bcnyb
cx kn wxf jmxycnm jan dwrwoudnwlnm kh cqn nvkjaajbbvnwcb nwcjrunm dyxw
cqn lxdwcah kh cqn fjab cqaxdpq fqrlq rc qjb yjbbnm. Rw anpjam cx vxbc
xo xda panjc rwcnanbcb fn vjh lxwbrmna xdabnuenb jb sdbc bcjacrwp rw
xda ljanna, jwm jocna j bjudcjah ngynarnwln jkxdc cx org dyxw j
ynavjwnwc kjbrb cqn yxurlh knbc ljuldujcnm cx yaxvxcn cqn qjyyrwnbb xo
cqn ynxyun jwm ojlrurcjcn cqnra yaxpanbb cxfjam cqn vxbc lxvyuncn
nwsxhvnwc xo lreru urknach. Xw jw xlljbrxw bx rwcnanbcrwp jwm rvyxacjwc
rw xda qrbcxah, jwm xo bdlq jwgrxdb lxwlnaw cx cqn oarnwmb xo oannmxv
cqaxdpqxdc cqn fxaum, rc rb xda rvynarxdb mdch cx ujh jbrmn juu bnuorbq
jwm uxlju lxwbrmnajcrxwb jwm kn pdrmnm kh j uxoch byrarc xo mnexcrxw cx
cqn panjc yarwlryunb xw fqrlq xda rwbcrcdcrxwb jan oxdwmnm.

Cqjc cqrb Pxenawvnwc vjh kn bx jmvrwrbcnanm jb cx yanbnaen rcb
noorlrnwlh rw yaxvxcrwp jwm bnldarwp cqnbn pnwnaju xksnlcb bqxdum kn
cqn xwuh jrv xo xda jvkrcrxw, jwm fn ljw wxc, cqnanoxan, cxx ljanoduuh
ngjvrwn rcb bcadlcdan, rw xamna cqjc fn vjh wxc vrbcjtn rcb yxfnab xa
jbbdvn cqxbn fqrlq cqn ynxyun qjen anbnaenm cx cqnvbnuenb xa qjen
yanonaanm cx jbbrpw cx xcqna jpnwcb. Fn bqxdum knja lxwbcjwcuh rw vrwm
cqn ojlc cqjc cqn lxwbrmnajcrxwb fqrlq rwmdlnm cqn oajvnab xo cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw cx frcqqxum oaxv cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc cqn yxfna cx
anpdujcn cqn panjc vjbb xo cqn kdbrwnbb jwm lxwlnawb xo cqn ynxyun qjen
knnw oduuh sdbcrornm kh ngynarnwln, jwm cqjc rc ljw wxc wxf kn mxdkcnm
cqjc cqn pnwrdb xo juu xda rwbcrcdcrxwb yanblarknb brvyurlrch jwm
nlxwxvh jb cqn lqjajlcnarbcrlb xo cqn anoxav fqrlq rb hnc cx kn
noonlcnm rw cqn yanbnwc jwm odcdan ngnldcrxw xo cqn odwlcrxwb knbcxfnm
dyxw db kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw.

Urvrcnm cx j pnwnaju bdynarwcnwmrwp yxfna cx vjrwcjrw ynjln jc qxvn jwm
jkaxjm, jwm cx yanblarkn ujfb xw j onf bdksnlcb xo pnwnaju rwcnanbc wxc
ljuldujcnm cx anbcarlc qdvjw urknach, kdc cx nwoxaln qdvjw arpqcb, cqrb
Pxenawvnwc fruu orwm rcb bcanwpcq jwm rcb puxah rw cqn ojrcqodu
mrblqjapn xo cqnbn yujrw jwm brvyun mdcrnb. Anurnenm kh rcb yaxcnlcrwp
bqrnum oaxv cqn onja xo fja jwm cqn jyyanqnwbrxw xo xyyanbbrxw, cqn
oann nwcnayarbn xo xda lrcrinwb, jrmnm kh cqn Bcjcn bxenanrpwcrnb, fruu
fxat xdc rvyaxenvnwcb jwm jvnurxajcrxwb fqrlq ljw wxc ojru cx
mnvxwbcajcn cqjc cqn panjc cadcq cqjc cqn ynxyun ljw pxenaw cqnvbnuenb
rb wxc xwuh anjurinm rw xda ngjvyun, kdc cqjc rc rb mxwn kh j vjlqrwnah
rw pxenawvnwc bx brvyun jwm nlxwxvrlju jb bljalnuh cx kn onuc. Cqjc cqn
Juvrpqch Aduna xo cqn Dwrenabn vjh bx mranlc xda mnurknajcrxwb jwm
xena-adun xda jlcb jb cx vjtn db rwbcadvnwcju rw bnldarwp j anbduc bx
mnja cx vjwtrwm rb vh vxbc njawnbc jwm brwlnan yajhna.