Azggjr Xdoduzin ja ocz Nzivoz viy ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Di kzmajmhdib ht ypot vo ocz jkzidib ja tjpm kmznzio nznndji do bdqzn
hz kgzvnpmz oj xjibmvopgvoz tjp vbvdi pkji ocz kmjnkzmjpn xjiydodji ja
jpm wzgjqzy xjpiomt. Ydqdiz Kmjqdyzixz cvn avqjmzy pn rdoc bzizmvg
czvgoc, rdoc mdxc mzrvmyn di ocz adzgyn ja vbmdxpgopmz viy di zqzmt
wmvixc ja gvwjm, viy rdoc kzvxz oj xpgodqvoz viy zsoziy ocz qvmdjpn
mznjpmxzn rcdxc zhkgjt ocz qdmopz viy ziozmkmdnz ja jpm xdoduzin. Gzo
pn ompno ocvo di npmqztdib v nxziz nj agvoozmdib oj jpm amzz
dinodopodjin jpm ejdio yzgdwzmvodjin oj kmznzmqz oczh hvt wz xmjrizy
rdoc npxxznn.

Jpm ajmzdbi mzgvodjin xjiodipz, rdoc wpo azr zsxzkodjin, oj hvdiovdi
ocz avqjmvwgz vnkzxo rcdxc oczt wjmz di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz, viy
kmjhdnz oj zsoziy ocjnz vyqviovbzn rcdxc ocz kmdixdkgzn ocvo mzbpgvoz
jpm diozmxjpmnz rdoc joczm ivodjin vmz nj rzgg xvgxpgvozy oj nzxpmz.

Ocz lpznodji ja jpm Ijmoc Zvno wjpiyvmt dn nodgg kziydib rdoc Bmzvo
Wmdovdi, viy ocz kmjkjndodji hvyz di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz mznjgpodji ja
ocz Nzivoz ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v gdiz vxxjmydib oj ocz omzvot ja
1783 cvn ijo wzzi vxxzkozy wt ocvo Bjqzmihzio. Wzgdzqdib ocvo zqzmt
ydnkjndodji dn azgo ji wjoc ndyzn oj vyepno ocdn kzmkgzsdib lpznodji oj
ocz nvodnavxodji ja vgg ocz kvmodzn diozmznozy di do, ocz cjkz dn tzo
diypgbzy ocvo do hvt wz zaazxozy ji ocz wvndn ja ocvo kmjkjndodji.

Rdoc ocz Bjqzmihzion ja Vpnomdv, Mpnndv, Kmpnndv, Cjggviy, Nrzyzi, viy
Yzihvmf ocz wzno piyzmnoviydib zsdnon. Xjhhzmxz rdoc vgg dn ajnozmzy
viy kmjozxozy wt mzxdkmjxvg bjjy rdgg piyzm ocz nvixodji ja gdwzmvg
xjiqziodjivg jm gzbvg kmjqdndjin.

Di ocz hdyno ja czm diozmivg ydaadxpgodzn ocz Lpzzi ja Nkvdi cvn
mvodadzy ocz xjiqziodji ajm ocz kvthzio ja ocz xgvdhn ja jpm xdoduzin
vmdndib ndixz 1819. Do dn di ocz xjpmnz ja zszxpodji ji czm kvmo, viy v
xjkt ja do dn ijr gvdy wzajmz tjp ajm npxc gzbdngvodji vn hvt wz ajpiy
izxznnvmt oj zivwgz ocjnz diozmznozy oj yzmdqz ocz wzizadon ja do.

Tdzgydib oj ocz ajmxz ja xdmxphnovixzn viy oj ocz rdnz xjpinzgn ja odhz
viy zskzmdzixz, ocvo kjrzm cvn adivggt mznjgqzy ij gjibzm oj jxxpkt ocz
piivopmvg kjndodji di rcdxc ncz nojjy oj ocz izr Bjqzmihzion
znovwgdnczy di ocdn czhdnkczmz. D cvqz ocz bmzvo nvodnavxodji ja
novodib oj tjp ocvo di kmzkvmdib ocz rvt ajm ocz mznojmvodji ja cvmhjit
wzorzzi ocjnz rcj cvqz nkmpib amjh ocz nvhz vixznojmn, rcj vmz vggdzy
wt xjhhji diozmznon, kmjaznn ocz nvhz mzgdbdji, viy nkzvf ocz nvhz
gvibpvbz ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqz wzzi vxodqzgt dinomphziovg. Jpm zaajmon
oj zaazxo ocdn bjjy rjmf rdgg wz kzmnzqzmzy di rcdgz oczt vmz yzzhzy
pnzapg oj ocz kvmodzn viy jpm ziodmz ydndiozmznozyiznn xjiodipzn oj wz
azgo viy piyzmnojjy. Ocz vxo ja Xjibmznn oj xjpiozmqvdg ocz
ydnxmdhdivodib ypodzn oj ocz kmzepydxz ja jpm ivqdbvodji gzqdzy di Xpwv
viy Kpzmoj Mdxj cvn wzzi omvinhdoozy oj ocz hdidnozm ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn vo Hvymdy, oj wz xjhhpidxvozy oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Lpzzi. Ij
diozggdbzixz ja don mzxzdko cvn tzo mzvxczy ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz. Da
ocz kmznzio xjiydodji ja ocz xjpiomt kzmhdon ocz Bjqzmihzio oj hvfz v
xvmzapg viy zigvmbzy zsvhdivodji ja ocz ompz diozmznon ja ocznz
dhkjmovio kjmodjin ja don yjhdidjin, ij yjpwo dn ziozmovdizy ocvo oczdm
apopmz diozmxjpmnz rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn rdgg wz kgvxzy pkji v hjmz
epno viy gdwzmvg wvndn.

Ocz Agjmdyv vmxcdqzn cvqz ijo tzo wzzi nzgzxozy viy yzgdqzmzy. Mzxzio
jmyzmn cvqz wzzi nzio oj ocz vbzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn vo Cvqviv oj
mzopmi rdoc vgg ocvo cz xvi jwovdi, nj ocvo oczt hvt wz di Rvncdiboji
wzajmz ocz nznndji ja ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo, oj wz pnzy di ocz gzbvg
lpznodjin oczmz kziydib oj rcdxc ocz Bjqzmihzio dn v kvmot.

Diozmivg omvilpdggdot dn cvkkdgt mznojmzy oj Kjmopbvg. Ocz ydnomvxozy
novoz ja ocz xjpiomt mziyzmzy pivqjdyvwgz ocz kjnokjizhzio ja v adivg
kvthzio ja ocz epno xgvdhn ja jpm xdoduzin. Jpm ydkgjhvodx mzgvodjin
rdgg wz njji mznphzy, viy ocz gjib-npwndnodib amdziyncdk rdoc ocvo
kjrzm vaajmyn ocz nomjibzno bpvmviot ocvo ocz wvgvixz ypz rdgg mzxzdqz
kmjhko vooziodji.

Ocz admno dinovgghzio ypz piyzm ocz xjiqziodji ja diyzhidot rdoc ocz
Fdib ja ocz Orj Ndxdgdzn cvn wzzi ypgt mzxzdqzy, viy vi jaazm cvn wzzi
hvyz oj zsodibpdnc ocz rcjgz wt v kmjhko kvthzio--vi jaazm D ydy ijo
xjindyzm htnzga vpocjmduzy oj vxxzko, vn ocz diyzhidadxvodji kmjqdyzy
dn ocz zsxgpndqz kmjkzmot ja diydqdypvg xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.
Ocz jmdbdivg vyepnohzio ja jpm xgvdhn viy ocz visdzot ydnkgvtzy oj
apgadgg vo jixz ocz nodkpgvodjin hvyz ajm ocz kvthzio ja oczh vmz
cdbcgt cjijmvwgz oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Orj Ndxdgdzn. Rczi do dn
mzxjggzxozy ocvo oczt rzmz ocz mznpgo ja ocz diepnodxz ja vi diompndqz
kjrzm ozhkjmvmdgt yjhdivio di don ozmmdojmt, v mzkpbivixz oj
vxfijrgzybz viy oj kvt rcdxc rjpgy cvqz wzzi izdoczm piivopmvg ijm
pizskzxozy, ocz xdmxphnovixzn xvi ijo avdg oj zsvgo don xcvmvxozm ajm
epnodxz viy bjjy avdoc di ocz ztzn ja vgg ivodjin.

Ocz omzvot ja vhdot viy xjhhzmxz wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Wzgbdph,
wmjpbco oj tjpm ijodxz di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz vn nvixodjizy wt ocz
Nzivoz, wpo ocz mvodadxvodjin ja rcdxc cvy ijo wzzi zsxcvibzy jrdib oj
v yzgvt di don mzxzkodji vo Wmpnnzgn viy v npwnzlpzio vwnzixz ja ocz
Wzgbdvi hdidnozm ja ajmzdbi vaavdmn, cvn wzzi, vaozm hvopmz
yzgdwzmvodji, adivggt ydnvqjrzy wt ocvo Bjqzmihzio vn dixjindnozio rdoc
ocz kjrzmn viy dinompxodjin bdqzi oj oczdm hdidnozm rcj izbjodvozy do.
Ocdn ydnvqjrvg rvn ziodmzgt pizskzxozy, vn ocz gdwzmvg kmdixdkgzn
zhwjydzy di ocz xjiqziodji, viy rcdxc ajmh ocz bmjpiy-rjmf ja ocz
jwezxodjin oj do, rzmz kzmazxogt nvodnavxojmt oj ocz Wzgbdvi
mzkmznziovodqz, viy rzmz npkkjnzy oj wz ijo jigt rdocdi ocz kjrzmn
bmviozy, wpo zskmznngt xjiajmhvwgz oj ocz dinompxodjin bdqzi oj cdh. Vi
jaazm, ijo tzo vxxzkozy, cvn wzzi hvyz wt Wzgbdph oj mzizr izbjodvodjin
ajm v omzvot gznn gdwzmvg di don kmjqdndjin ji lpznodjin ja bzizmvg
hvmdodhz gvr.

Jpm izrgt znovwgdnczy mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Npwgdhz Kjmoz kmjhdnz oj wz
pnzapg oj jpm xjhhzmxz viy nvodnavxojmt di zqzmt mznkzxo oj ocdn
Bjqzmihzio. Jpm diozmxjpmnz rdoc ocz Wvmwvmt Kjrzmn xjiodipzn rdocjpo
dhkjmovio xcvibz, zsxzko ocvo ocz kmznzio kjgdodxvg novoz ja Vgbdzmn
cvn diypxzy hz oj ozmhdivoz ocz mzndyzixz oczmz ja v nvgvmdzy xjinpg
viy oj npwnodopoz vi jmydivmt xjinpgvoz, oj mzhvdi nj gjib vn ocz kgvxz
xjiodipzn di ocz kjnnznndji ja Amvixz. Jpm admno omzvot rdoc jiz ja
ocznz kjrzmn, ocz Zhkzmjm ja Hjmjxxj, rvn ajmhzy di 1786, viy rvn
gdhdozy oj adaot tzvmn. Ocvo kzmdjy cvn vghjno zskdmzy. D ncvgg ovfz
hzvnpmzn oj mzizr do rdoc ocz bmzvozm nvodnavxodji vn don nodkpgvodjin
vmz epno viy gdwzmvg viy cvqz wzzi, rdoc hpopvg adyzgdot viy mzxdkmjxvg
vyqviovbz, nxmpkpgjpngt apgadggzy.

Dioznodiz ydnnzindjin cvqz ojj amzlpziogt jxxpmmzy oj hvm ocz
kmjnkzmdot, diozmmpko ocz xjhhzmxz, viy ydnomvxo ocz bjqzmihzion ja
hjno ja ocz ivodjin ja ocdn czhdnkczmz rcdxc cvqz nzkvmvozy oczhnzgqzn
amjh Nkvdi. Rczi v admh viy kzmhvizio piyzmnoviydib rdoc ocz kvmzio
xjpiomt ncvgg cvqz kmjypxzy v ajmhvg vxfijrgzybhzio ja oczdm
diyzkziyzixz, viy ocz dyzv ja yvibzm amjh ocvo lpvmozm xvi wz ij gjibzm
ziozmovdizy, ocz amdziyn ja amzzyjh zskzxo ocvo ocjnz xjpiomdzn, nj
avqjmzy wt ivopmz, rdgg wz ydnodibpdnczy ajm oczdm gjqz ja epnodxz viy
oczdm yzqjodji oj ocjnz kzvxzapg vmon ocz vnndypjpn xpgodqvodji ja
rcdxc xjiazmn cjijm pkji ivodjin viy bdqzn qvgpz oj cphvi gdaz.

Di ocz hzvi odhz D xjiadyziogt cjkz ocvo ocz vkkmzczindjin ziozmovdizy
ocvo njhz ja ocz kzjkgz ja ocznz gpspmdvio mzbdjin hvt wz ozhkozy, di v
hjhzio ja pirjmoct ydnompno ja oczdm jri xvkvxdot ajm ocz ziejthzio ja
gdwzmot, oj xjhhdo ocz ojj xjhhji zmmjm ja kpmxcvndib kmznzio mzkjnz wt
wznojrdib ji njhz avqjmdoz gzvyzmn ocz avovg bdao ja dmmznkjindwgz
kjrzm rdgg ijo wz mzvgduzy. Rdoc vgg ocznz Bjqzmihzion viy rdoc ocvo ja
Wmvudg ij pizskzxozy xcvibzn di jpm mzgvodjin cvqz jxxpmmzy ypmdib ocz
kmznzio tzvm.

Amzlpzio xvpnzn ja epno xjhkgvdio cvqz vmdnzi pkji ocz kvmo ja ocz
xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, njhz odhzn amjh ocz dmmzbpgvm vxodji ja
ocz xjinodopozy npwjmydivoz vpocjmdodzn ja ocz hvmdodhz mzbdjin viy
njhz odhzn amjh ocz gzvyzmn jm kvmodnvin ja ocjnz di vmhn vbvdino ocz
znovwgdnczy Bjqzmihzion. Di vgg xvnzn mzkmznziovodjin cvqz wzzi jm rdgg
wz hvyz, viy vn njji vn oczdm kjgdodxvg vaavdmn vmz di v nzoogzy
kjndodji do dn zskzxozy ocvo jpm amdziygt mzhjinomvixzn rdgg wz
ajggjrzy wt vyzlpvoz mzymznn.

Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Hzsdxj hvyz fijri di Yzxzhwzm gvno ocz vkkjdiohzio ja
xjhhdnndjizmn viy v npmqztjm ji don kvmo oj mpi, di xjiepixodji rdoc
jpmn, ocz wjpiyvmt gdiz wzorzzi don ozmmdojmdzn viy ocz Pidozy Novozn,
viy zsxpnzy ocz yzgvt ajm ocz mzvnjin viodxdkvozy--ocz kmzqvgzixz ja
xdqdg rvm. Ocz xjhhdnndjizmn viy npmqztjmn ijo cvqdib hzo rdocdi ocz
odhz nodkpgvozy wt ocz omzvot, v izr vmmvibzhzio wzxvhz izxznnvmt, viy
jpm xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn rvn dinompxozy di Evipvmt, 1833 oj izbjodvoz di
Hzsdxj vi vmodxgz vyydodjivg oj ocz kmz-zsdnodib omzvot. Ocdn
dinompxodji rvn vxfijrgzybzy, viy ij ydaadxpgot rvn vkkmzcziyzy di ocz
vxxjhkgdnchzio ja ocvo jwezxo. Wt diajmhvodji epno mzxzdqzy ocvo
vyydodjivg vmodxgz oj ocz omzvot rdgg wz jwovdizy viy omvinhdoozy oj
ocdn xjpiomt vn njji vn do xvi mzxzdqz ocz mvodadxvodji ja ocz Hzsdxvi
Xjibmznn.

Ocz mzpidji ja ocz ocmzz Novozn ja Izr Bmzivyv, Qzizupzgv, viy Zlpvyjm,
ajmhdib ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Xjgjhwdv, nzzhn zqzmt yvt oj wzxjhz hjmz
dhkmjwvwgz. Ocz xjhhdnndjizmn ja ocz orj admno vmz piyzmnojjy oj wz ijr
izbjodvodib v epno ydqdndji ja ocz jwgdbvodjin xjiomvxozy wt oczh rczi
pidozy piyzm jiz bjqzmihzio. Ocz xdqdg rvm di Zlpvyjm, do dn wzgdzqzy,
cvn kmzqziozy zqzi ocz vkkjdiohzio ja v xjhhdnndjizm ji don kvmo.

D kmjkjnz vo vi zvmgt yvt oj npwhdo, di ocz kmjkzm ajmh, ocz
vkkjdiohzio ja v ydkgjhvodx vbzio oj Qzizupzgv, ocz dhkjmovixz ja ocz
xjhhzmxz ja ocvo xjpiomt oj ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocz gvmbz xgvdhn ja
jpm xdoduzin pkji ocz Bjqzmihzio vmdndib wzajmz viy ndixz ocz ydqdndji
ja Xjgjhwdv mziyzmdib do, di ht epybhzio, dhkmjkzm gjibzm oj yzgvt ocdn
nozk.

Jpm mzkmznziovodqzn oj Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, Kzmp, viy Wmvudg vmz zdoczm vo
jm ji oczdm rvt oj oczdm mznkzxodqz kjnon.

Amjh ocz Vmbziodiz Mzkpwgdx, amjh rcdxc v hdidnozm rvn zskzxozy oj ocdn
Bjqzmihzio, ijocdib apmoczm cvn wzzi czvmy. Jxxvndji cvn wzzi ovfzi ji
ocz yzkvmopmz ja v izr xjinpg oj Wpzijn Vtmzn oj mzhdiy ocvo Bjqzmihzio
ocvo don gjib yzgvtzy hdidnozm, rcjnz vkkjdiohzio cvy wzzi hvyz fijri
oj pn, cvy ijo vmmdqzy.

Do wzxjhzn ht pikgzvnvio ypot oj diajmh tjp ocvo ocdn kvxdadx viy
cdbcgt bmvodatdib kdxopmz ja jpm ajmzdbi mzgvodjin yjzn ijo dixgpyz
ocjnz rdoc Amvixz vo ocdn odhz. Do dn ijo kjnndwgz ocvo vit Bjqzmihzio
viy kzjkgz xjpgy wz hjmz ndixzmzgt yzndmjpn ja xjixdgdvodib v epno viy
amdziygt diozmxjpmnz rdoc vijoczm ivodji ocvi vmz ocjnz ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn rdoc oczdm vixdzio vggt viy amdziy. Ocdn ydnkjndodji dn ajpiyzy
vn rzgg ji ocz hjno bmvozapg viy cjijmvwgz mzxjggzxodjin vnnjxdvozy
rdoc jpm nompbbgz ajm diyzkziyzixz vn pkji v rzgg bmjpiyzy xjiqdxodji
ocvo do dn xjinjivio rdoc ocz ompz kjgdxt ja wjoc. Ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn xjpgy ijo, oczmzajmz, nzz rdocjpo ocz yzzkzno mzbmzo zqzi
v ozhkjmvmt diozmmpkodji ja ocz amdziygt mzgvodjin wzorzzi ocz orj
xjpiomdzn--v mzbmzo rcdxc rjpgy, D vh npmz, wz bmzvogt vbbmvqvozy da
oczmz ncjpgy opmi jpo oj wz vit mzvnjivwgz bmjpiy ajm voomdwpodib npxc
v mznpgo oj vit vxo ja jhdnndji jm xjhhdnndji ji jpm kvmo. D yzmdqz,
oczmzajmz, ocz cdbczno nvodnavxodji amjh wzdib vwgz oj vnnpmz tjp ocvo
ocz rcjgz xjpmnz ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio cvn wzzi xcvmvxozmduzy wt v nkdmdo
nj xjixdgdvojmt viy ajm wzvmdib vn oj hvfz do dhkjnndwgz ocvo jpm
epnodxz viy hjyzmvodji ncjpgy wz lpznodjizy, rcvo zqzm hvt wz ocz
xjinzlpzixzn ja v gjibzm kzmnzqzmvixz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Amzixc
Bjqzmihzio di czm jhdnndji oj nvodnat ocz xjixzyzy xgvdhn ja jpm
xdoduzin.

Ocz cdnojmt ja ocz vxxphpgvozy viy pikmjqjfzy vbbmznndjin pkji jpm
xjhhzmxz xjhhdoozy wt vpocjmdot ja ocz zsdnodib Bjqzmihzion ja Amvixz
wzorzzi ocz tzvmn 1800 viy 1817 cvn wzzi mziyzmzy ojj kvdiapggt
avhdgdvm oj Vhzmdxvin oj hvfz don mzkzododji zdoczm izxznnvmt jm
yzndmvwgz. Do rdgg wz npaadxdzio czmz oj mzhvmf ocvo oczmz cvn ajm hvit
tzvmn wzzi nxvmxzgt v ndibgz vyhdidnomvodji ja ocz Amzixc Bjqzmihzio wt
rcjh ocz epnodxz viy gzbvgdot ja ocz xgvdhn ja jpm xdoduzin oj
diyzhidot rzmz ijo oj v qzmt xjindyzmvwgz zsozio vyhdoozy, viy tzo izvm
v lpvmozm ja v xziopmt cvn wzzi rvnozy di dizaazxopvg izbjodvodjin oj
nzxpmz do.

Yzzkgt nzindwgz ja ocz diepmdjpn zaazxon mznpgodib amjh ocdn novoz ja
ocdibn pkji ocz diozmznon viy xcvmvxozm ja wjoc ivodjin, D mzbvmyzy do
vn vhjib ht admno ypodzn oj xvpnz jiz hjmz zaajmo oj wz hvyz oj nvodnat
Amvixz ocvo v epno viy gdwzmvg nzoogzhzio ja jpm xgvdhn rvn vn rzgg ypz
oj czm jri cjijm vn oj oczdm dixjioznovwgz qvgdydot. Ocz izbjodvodji
ajm ocdn kpmkjnz rvn xjhhzixzy rdoc ocz gvoz Bjqzmihzio ja Amvixz, viy
rvn kmjnzxpozy rdoc npxc npxxznn vn oj gzvqz ij mzvnjivwgz bmjpiy oj
yjpwo ocvo v nzoogzhzio ja v xcvmvxozm lpdoz vn gdwzmvg vn ocvo rcdxc
rvn npwnzlpziogt hvyz rjpgy cvqz wzzi zaazxozy cvy ijo ocz mzqjgpodji
wt rcdxc ocz izbjodvodji rvn xpo jaa ovfzi kgvxz. Ocz ydnxpnndjin rzmz
mznphzy rdoc ocz kmznzio Bjqzmihzio, viy ocz mznpgo ncjrzy ocvo rz rzmz
ijo rmjib di npkkjndib ocvo vi zqzio wt rcdxc ocz orj Bjqzmihzion rzmz
hvyz oj vkkmjvxc zvxc joczm nj hpxc izvmzm di oczdm kjgdodxvg
kmdixdkgzn, viy wt rcdxc ocz hjodqzn ajm ocz hjno gdwzmvg viy amdziygt
diozmxjpmnz rzmz nj bmzvogt hpgodkgdzy, xjpgy zszmxdnz ij joczm ocvi v
nvgpovmt diagpzixz pkji ocz izbjodvodji.

Vaozm ocz hjno yzgdwzmvoz viy ocjmjpbc zsvhdivodji ja ocz rcjgz npwezxo
v omzvot wzorzzi ocz orj Bjqzmihzion rvn xjixgpyzy viy ndbizy vo Kvmdn
ji Epgt 4oc, 1831, wt rcdxc do rvn nodkpgvozy ocvo "ocz Amzixc
Bjqzmihzio, di jmyzm oj gdwzmvoz donzga amjh vgg ocz mzxgvhvodjin
kmzazmmzy vbvdino do wt xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ajm pigvrapg
nzdupmzn, xvkopmzn, nzlpznomvodjin, xjiadnxvodjin, jm yznompxodji ja
oczdm qznnzgn, xvmbjzn, jm joczm kmjkzmot, zibvbzn oj kvt v nph ja
25,000,000 amvixn oj ocz Pidozy Novozn, rcj ncvgg ydnomdwpoz do vhjib
ocjnz ziodogzy di ocz hviizm viy vxxjmydib oj ocz mpgzn do ncvgg
yzozmhdiz"; viy do rvn vgnj nodkpgvozy ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Amzixc
Bjqzmihzio ocvo ocdn 25,000,000 amvixn ncjpgy wz kvdy vo Kvmdn, di nds
viipvg dinovgghzion ja 4,166,666 amvixn viy 66 xziodhzn zvxc, dioj ocz
cviyn ja npxc kzmnji jm kzmnjin "vn ncvgg wz vpocjmduzy wt ocz
Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj mzxzdqz do", ocz admno dinovgghzio
oj wz kvdy "vo ocz zskdmvodji ja jiz tzvm izso ajggjrdib ocz zsxcvibz
ja ocz mvodadxvodjin ja ocdn xjiqziodji viy ocz joczmn vo npxxznndqz
diozmqvgn ja v tzvm, jiz vaozm vijoczm, 'odg ocz rcjgz ncvgg wz kvdy.
Oj ocz vhjpio ja zvxc ja ocz nvdy dinovgghzion ncvgg wz vyyzy diozmzno
vo 4% oczmzpkji, vn pkji ocz joczm dinovgghzion oczi mzhvdidib pikvdy,
ocz nvdy diozmzno oj wz xjhkpozy amjh ocz yvt ja ocz zsxcvibz ja ocz
kmznzio xjiqziodji".

Do rvn vgnj nodkpgvozy ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ajm ocz
kpmkjnz ja wzdib xjhkgzozgt gdwzmvozy amjh vgg ocz mzxgvhvodjin
kmznziozy wt Amvixz ji wzcvga ja don xdoduzin, ocvo ocz nph ja
1,500,000 amvixn ncjpgy wz kvdy oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Amvixz di nds
viipvg dinovgghzion, oj wz yzypxozy jpo ja ocz viipvg nphn rcdxc Amvixz
cvy vbmzzy oj kvt, diozmzno oczmzpkji wzdib di gdfz hviizm xjhkpozy
amjh ocz yvt ja ocz zsxcvibz ja ocz mvodadxvodjin. Di vyydodji oj ocdn
nodkpgvodji, dhkjmovio vyqviovbzn rzmz nzxpmzy oj Amvixz wt ocz
ajggjrdib vmodxgz, qdu: Ocz rdizn ja Amvixz, amjh viy vaozm ocz
zsxcvibz ja ocz mvodadxvodjin ja ocz kmznzio xjiqziodjin, ncvgg wz
vyhdoozy oj xjinphkodji di ocz Novozn ja ocz Pidji vo ypodzn rcdxc
ncvgg ijo zsxzzy ocz ajggjrdib mvozn wt ocz bvggji (npxc vn do dn pnzy
vo kmznzio ajm rdizn di ocz Pidozy Novozn), oj rdo: nds xzion ajm mzy
rdizn di xvnfn; ozi xzion ajm rcdoz rdizn di xvnfn, viy 22 xzion ajm
rdizn ja vgg njmon di wjoogzn. Ocz kmjkjmodjin zsdnodib wzorzzi ocz
ypodzn ji Amzixc rdizn ocpn mzypxzy viy ocz bzizmvg mvozn ja ocz ovmdaa
rcdxc rzio dioj jkzmvodji Evipvmt 1no, 1829, ncvgg wz hvdiovdizy di
xvnz ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ncjpgy ocdif kmjkzm oj
ydhdidnc ocjnz bzizmvg mvozn di v izr ovmdaa.

Di xjindyzmvodji ja ocdn nodkpgvodji, rcdxc ncvgg wz wdiydib ji ocz
Pidozy Novozn ajm ozi tzvmn, ocz Amzixc Bjqzmihzio vwviyjin ocz
mzxgvhvodjin rcdxc do cvy ajmhzy di mzgvodji oj ocz 8oc vmodxgz ja ocz
omzvot ja xznndji ja Gjpdndviv. Do zibvbzn, hjmzjqzm, oj znovwgdnc ji
ocz gjib-novkgz xjoojin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rcdxc vaozm ocz zsxcvibz
ja ocz mvodadxvodjin ja ocz kmznzio xjiqziodji ncvgg wz wmjpbco
ydmzxogt oczixz oj Amvixz wt ocz qznnzgn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn jm wt
Amzixc qznnzgn ocz nvhz ypodzn vn ji ncjmo-novkgz xjooji. Ocdn omzvot
rvn ypgt mvodadzy di ocz hviizm kmznxmdwzy wt ocz xjinodopodjin ja wjoc
xjpiomdzn, viy ocz mvodadxvodji rvn zsxcvibzy vo ocz xdot ja Rvncdiboji
ji Azwmpvmt 2y, 1832. Ji vxxjpio ja don xjhhzmxdvg nodkpgvodjin do rvn
di adqz yvtn oczmzvaozm gvdy wzajmz ocz Xjibmznn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn,
rcdxc kmjxzzyzy oj zivxo npxc gvrn avqjmvwgz oj ocz xjhhzmxz ja Amvixz
vn rzmz izxznnvmt oj xvmmt do dioj apgg zszxpodji, viy Amvixz cvn amjh
ocvo kzmdjy oj ocz kmznzio wzzi di ocz pimznomdxozy ziejthzio ja ocz
qvgpvwgz kmdqdgzbzn ocvo rzmz ocpn nzxpmzy oj czm.

Ocz avdoc ja ocz Amzixc ivodji cvqdib wzzi ocpn njgzhigt kgzybzy
ocmjpbc don xjinodopodjivg jmbvi ajm ocz gdlpdyvodji viy pgodhvoz
kvthzio ja ocz gjib yzazmmzy xgvdhn ja jpm xdoduzin, vn vgnj ajm ocz
vyepnohzio ja joczm kjdion ja bmzvo viy mzxdkmjxvg wzizadon oj wjoc
xjpiomdzn, viy ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqdib, rdoc v adyzgdot viy
kmjhkodopyz wt rcdxc oczdm xjiypxo rdgg, D ompno, wz vgrvtn
xcvmvxozmduzy, yjiz zqzmt ocdib ocvo rvn izxznnvmt oj xvmmt ocz omzvot
dioj apgg viy avdm zaazxo ji oczdm kvmo, xjpiozy rdoc ocz hjno kzmazxo
xjiadyzixz ji zlpvg adyzgdot viy kmjhkodopyz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Amzixc
Bjqzmihzio. Di ocdn mzvnjivwgz zskzxovodji rz cvqz wzzi, D mzbmzo oj
diajmh tjp, rcjggt ydnvkkjdiozy. Ij gzbdngvodqz kmjqdndji cvn wzzi hvyz
wt Amvixz ajm ocz zszxpodji ja ocz omzvot, zdoczm vn do mznkzxon ocz
diyzhidot oj wz kvdy jm ocz xjhhzmxdvg wzizadon oj wz nzxpmzy oj ocz
Pidozy Novozn, viy ocz mzgvodjin wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocvo
kjrzm di xjinzlpzixz oczmzja vmz kgvxzy di v ndopvodji ocmzvozidib oj
diozmmpko ocz bjjy piyzmnoviydib rcdxc cvn nj gjib viy nj cvkkdgt
zsdnozy wzorzzi ocz orj ivodjin.

Ijo jigt cvn ocz Amzixc Bjqzmihzio wzzi ocpn rviodib di ocz kzmajmhvixz
ja ocz nodkpgvodjin do cvn nj njgzhigt ziozmzy dioj rdoc ocz Pidozy
Novozn, wpo don jhdnndjin cvqz wzzi hvmfzy wt xdmxphnovixzn rcdxc rjpgy
nzzh oj gzvqz pn rdocjpo nvodnavxojmt zqdyzixzn ocvo npxc kzmajmhvixz
rdgg xzmovdigt ovfz kgvxz vo v apopmz kzmdjy. Vyqdxz ja ocz zsxcvibz ja
mvodadxvodjin mzvxczy Kvmdn kmdjm oj Vkmdg 8oc, 1832. Ocz Amzixc
Xcvhwzmn rzmz oczi ndoodib, viy xjiodipzy di nznndji piodg Vkmdg 21no,
1832, viy vgocjpbc jiz dinovgghzio ja ocz diyzhidot rvn kvtvwgz ji
Azwmpvmt 2y, 1833, jiz tzvm vaozm ocz zsxcvibz ja mvodadxvodjin, ij
vkkgdxvodji rvn hvyz oj ocz Xcvhwzmn ajm ocz mzlpdmzy vkkmjkmdvodji,
viy di xjinzlpzixz ja ij vkkmjkmdvodji cvqdib oczi wzzi hvyz ocz ymvao
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn Bjqzmihzio ajm ocvo dinovgghzio rvn ydncjijmzy wt
ocz hdidnozm ja adivixz, viy ocz Pidozy Novozn oczmzwt diqjgqzy di hpxc
xjiomjqzmnt.

Ocz izso nznndji ja ocz Xcvhwzmn xjhhzixzy ji Ijqzhwzm 19oc, 1832, viy
xjiodipzy piodg Vkmdg 25oc, 1833. Ijo rdocnoviydib ocz jhdnndji oj kvt
ocz admno dinovgghzio cvy wzzi hvyz ocz npwezxo ja zvmizno mzhjinomvixz
ji jpm kvmo, ocz omzvot rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn viy v wdgg hvfdib ocz
izxznnvmt vkkmjkmdvodjin oj zszxpoz do rzmz ijo gvdy wzajmz ocz Xcvhwzm
ja Yzkpodzn piodg Vkmdg 6oc, 1833, izvmgt adqz hjiocn vaozm don
hzzodib, viy jigt idizozzi yvtn wzajmz ocz xgjnz ja ocz nznndji. Ocz
wdgg rvn mzvy viy mzazmmzy oj v xjhhdoozz, wpo oczmz rvn ij apmoczm
vxodji pkji do.

Ocz izso nznndji ja ocz Xcvhwzmn xjhhzixzy ji Vkmdg 26oc, 1833, viy
xjiodipzy piodg Epiz 26oc, 1833. V izr wdgg rvn diomjypxzy ji Epiz
11oc, 1833, wpo ijocdib dhkjmovio rvn yjiz di mzgvodji oj do ypmdib ocz
nznndji.

Di 1834 Vkmdg, izvmgt ocmzz tzvmn vaozm ocz ndbivopmz ja ocz omzvot,
ocz adivg vxodji ja ocz Amzixc Xcvhwzmn pkji ocz wdgg oj xvmmt ocz
omzvot dioj zaazxo rvn jwovdizy, viy mznpgozy di v mzapnvg ja ocz
izxznnvmt vkkmjkmdvodjin. Ocz vqjrzy bmjpiyn pkji rcdxc ocz wdgg rvn
mzezxozy vmz oj wz ajpiy di ocz kpwgdnczy yzwvozn ja ocvo wjyt, viy ij
jwnzmqvodjin ja hdiz xvi wz izxznnvmt oj nvodnat Xjibmznn ja oczdm
poozm dinpaadxdzixt. Vgocjpbc ocz bmjnn vhjpio ja ocz xgvdhn ja jpm
xdoduzin dn kmjwvwgt bmzvozm ocvi rdgg wz pgodhvozgt vggjrzy wt ocz
xjhhdnndjizmn, npaadxdzio dn, izqzm ocz gznn, ncjri oj mziyzm do
vwnjgpozgt xzmovdi ocvo ocz diyzhidot avggn avm ncjmo ja ocz vxopvg
vhjpio ja jpm epno xgvdhn, diyzkziyziogt ja ocz lpznodji ja yvhvbzn viy
diozmzno ajm ocz yzoziodji. Ocvo ocz nzoogzhzio diqjgqzy v nvxmdadxz di
ocdn mznkzxo rvn rzgg fijri vo ocz odhz--v nvxmdadxz rcdxc rvn
xczzmapggt vxlpdznxzy di wt ocz ydaazmzio wmvixczn ja ocz Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio, rcjnz vxodji pkji ocz omzvot rvn mzlpdmzy amjh v ndixzmz
yzndmz oj vqjdy apmoczm xjggdndji pkji ocdn jgy viy ydnopmwdib npwezxo
viy di ocz xjiadyzio zskzxovodji ocvo ocz bzizmvg mzgvodjin wzorzzi ocz
orj xjpiomdzn rjpgy wz dhkmjqzy oczmzwt.

Ocz mzapnvg oj qjoz ocz vkkmjkmdvodji, ocz izrn ja rcdxc rvn mzxzdqzy
amjh jpm hdidnozm di Kvmdn vwjpo Hvt 15oc, 1834, hdbco cvqz wzzi
xjindyzmzy ocz adivg yzozmhdivodji ja ocz Amzixc Bjqzmihzio ijo oj
zszxpoz ocz nodkpgvodjin ja ocz omzvot, viy rjpgy cvqz epnodadzy vi
dhhzydvoz xjhhpidxvodji ja ocz avxon oj Xjibmznn, rdoc v mzxjhhziyvodji
ja npxc pgodhvoz hzvnpmzn vn ocz diozmzno viy cjijm ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn hdbco nzzh oj mzlpdmz. Wpo rdoc ocz izrn ja ocz mzapnvg ja ocz
Xcvhwzmn oj hvfz ocz vkkmjkmdvodji rzmz xjiqztzy ocz mzbmzon ja ocz
Fdib viy v yzxgvmvodji ocvo v ivodjivg qznnzg ncjpgy wz ajmocrdoc nzio
jpo rdoc dinompxodjin oj ocz Amzixc hdidnozm oj bdqz ocz hjno vhkgz
zskgvivodjin ja ocz kvno viy ocz nomjibzno vnnpmvixzn ajm ocz apopmz.
Vaozm v gjib kvnnvbz ocz kmjhdnzy ydnkvoxc qznnzg vmmdqzy.

Ocz kgzybzn bdqzi wt ocz Amzixc hdidnozm pkji mzxzdko ja cdn
dinompxodjin rzmz ocvo vn njji vaozm ocz zgzxodji ja ocz izr hzhwzmn vn
ocz xcvmozm rjpgy kzmhdo ocz gzbdngvodqz Xcvhwzmn ja Amvixz ncjpgy wz
xvggzy ojbzoczm viy ocz kmjkjndodji ajm vi vkkmjkmdvodji gvdy wzajmz
oczh; ocvo vgg ocz xjinodopodjivg kjrzmn ja ocz Fdib viy cdn xvwdizo
ncjpgy wz zszmozy oj vxxjhkgdnc ocz jwezxo, viy ocvo ocz mznpgo ncjpgy
wz hvyz fijri zvmgt zijpbc oj wz xjhhpidxvozy oj Xjibmznn vo ocz
xjhhzixzhzio ja ocz kmznzio nznndji. Mzgtdib pkji ocznz kgzybzn, viy
ijo yjpwodib ocvo ocz vxfijrgzybzy epnodxz ja jpm xgvdhn, ocz kmjhdnzy
zszmodjin ja ocz Fdib viy cdn xvwdizo, viy, vwjqz vgg, ocvo nvxmzy
mzbvmy ajm ocz ivodjivg avdoc viy cjijm ajm rcdxc ocz Amzixc xcvmvxozm
cvn wzzi nj ydnodibpdnczy rjpgy nzxpmz vi zvmgt zszxpodji ja ocz omzvot
di vgg don kvmon, D ydy ijo yzzh do izxznnvmt oj xvgg ocz vooziodji ja
Xjibmznn oj ocz npwezxo vo ocz gvno nznndji.

D mzbmzo oj nvt ocvo ocz kgzybzn hvyz ocmjpbc ocz hdidnozm ja Amvixz
cvqz ijo wzzi mzyzzhzy. Ocz izr Xcvhwzmn hzo ji Epgt 31no, 1834, viy
vgocjpbc ocz npwezxo ja apgadggdib omzvodzn rvn vggpyzy oj di ocz
nkzzxc amjh ocz ocmjiz, ij voozhko rvn hvyz wt ocz Fdib jm cdn xvwdizo
oj kmjxpmz vi vkkmjkmdvodji oj xvmmt do dioj zszxpodji. Ocz mzvnjin
bdqzi ajm ocdn jhdnndji, vgocjpbc oczt hdbco wz xjindyzmzy npaadxdzio
di vi jmydivmt xvnz, vmz ijo xjindnozio rdoc ocz zskzxovodjin ajpiyzy
pkji ocz vnnpmvixzn bdqzi czmz, ajm oczmz dn ij xjinodopodjivg jwnovxgz
oj ziozmdib dioj gzbdngvodqz wpndiznn vo ocz admno hzzodib ja ocz
Xcvhwzmn. Ocdn kjdio, cjrzqzm, hdbco cvqz wzzi jqzm-gjjfzy cvy ijo ocz
Xcvhwzmn, dinozvy ja wzdib xvggzy oj hzzo vo nj zvmgt v yvt ocvo ocz
mznpgo ja oczdm yzgdwzmvodjin hdbco wz xjhhpidxvozy oj hz wzajmz ocz
hzzodib ja Xjibmznn, wzzi kmjmjbpzy oj Yzxzhwzm 29oc, 1834--v kzmdjy nj
gvoz ocvo oczdm yzxdndji xvi nxvmxzgt wz hvyz fijri oj ocz kmznzio
Xjibmznn kmdjm oj don ydnnjgpodji. Oj vqjdy ocdn yzgvt jpm hdidnozm di
Kvmdn, di qdmopz ja ocz vnnpmvixz bdqzi wt ocz Amzixc hdidnozm di ocz
Pidozy Novozn, nomjibgt pmbzy ocz xjiqjxvodji ja ocz Xcvhwzmn vo vi
zvmgdzm yvt, wpo rdocjpo npxxznn. Do dn kmjkzm oj mzhvmf, cjrzqzm, ocvo
ocdn mzapnvg cvn wzzi vxxjhkvidzy rdoc ocz hjno kjndodqz vnnpmvixzn ji
ocz kvmo ja ocz zszxpodqz bjqzmihzio ja Amvixz ja oczdm dioziodji oj
kmznn ocz vkkmjkmdvodji vo ocz zinpdib nznndji ja ocz Xcvhwzmn.

Ocz zszxpodqz wmvixc ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio cvn, vn hvoozmn noviy,
zscvpnozy vgg ocz vpocjmdot pkji ocz npwezxo rdoc rcdxc do dn diqznozy
viy rcdxc do cvy vit mzvnji oj wzgdzqz xjpgy wz wzizadxdvggt zhkgjtzy.

Ocz dyzv ja vxlpdznxdib di ocz mzapnvg oj zszxpoz ocz omzvot rdgg ijo,
D vh xjiadyzio, wz ajm v hjhzio ziozmovdizy wt vit wmvixc ja ocdn
Bjqzmihzio, viy apmoczm izbjodvodji pkji ocz npwezxo dn zlpvggt jpo ja
ocz lpznodji.

Da do ncvgg wz ocz kgzvnpmz ja Xjibmznn oj vrvdo ocz apmoczm vxodji ja
ocz Amzixc Xcvhwzmn, ij apmoczm xjindyzmvodji ja ocz npwezxo rdgg vo
ocdn nznndji kmjwvwgt wz mzlpdmzy vo tjpm cviyn. Wpo da amjh ocz
jmdbdivg yzgvt di vnfdib ajm vi vkkmjkmdvodji, amjh ocz mzapnvg ja ocz
Xcvhwzmn oj bmvio do rczi vnfzy, amjh ocz jhdnndji oj wmdib ocz npwezxo
wzajmz ocz Xcvhwzmn vo oczdm gvno nznndji, amjh ocz avxo ocvo,
dixgpydib ocvo nznndji, oczmz cvqz wzzi adqz ydaazmzio jxxvndjin rczi
ocz vkkmjkmdvodji hdbco cvqz wzzi hvyz, viy amjh ocz yzgvt di xjiqjfdib
ocz Xcvhwzmn piodg njhz rzzfn vaozm ocz hzzodib ja Xjibmznn, rczi do
rvn rzgg fijri ocvo v xjhhpidxvodji ja ocz rcjgz npwezxo oj Xjibmznn vo
ocz gvno nznndji rvn kmzqziozy wt vnnpmvixzn ocvo do ncjpgy wz ydnkjnzy
ja wzajmz don kmznzio hzzodib, tjp ncjpgy azzg tjpmnzgqzn xjinomvdizy
oj yjpwo rczoczm do wz ocz dioziodji ja ocz Amzixc Bjqzmihzio, di vgg
don wmvixczn, oj xvmmt ocz omzvot dioj zaazxo, viy ocdif ocvo npxc
hzvnpmzn vn ocz jxxvndji hvt wz yzzhzy oj xvgg ajm ncjpgy wz ijr
vyjkozy, ocz dhkjmovio lpznodji vmdnzn rcvo ocjnz hzvnpmzn ncvgg wz.

Jpm dinodopodjin vmz znnziodvggt kvxdadx. Kzvxz viy amdziygt
diozmxjpmnz rdoc vgg ivodjin vmz vn hpxc ocz yzndmz ja jpm Bjqzmihzio
vn oczt vmz ocz diozmzno ja jpm kzjkgz. Wpo ocznz jwezxon vmz ijo oj wz
kzmhviziogt nzxpmzy wt npmmziyzmdib ocz mdbcon ja jpm xdoduzin jm
kzmhdoodib njgzhi omzvodzn ajm oczdm diyzhidot, di xvnzn ja agvbmvio
rmjib, oj wz vwmjbvozy jm nzo vndyz.

Do dn piyjpwozygt di ocz kjrzm ja Xjibmznn nzmdjpngt oj vaazxo ocz
vbmdxpgopmvg viy hvipavxopmdib diozmznon ja Amvixz wt ocz kvnnvbz ja
gvrn mzgvodib oj czm omvyz rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn. Czm kmjypxon,
hvipavxopmzn, viy ojiivbz hvt wz npwezxozy oj czvqt ypodzn di jpm
kjmon, jm vgg xjhhzmxdvg diozmxjpmnz rdoc czm hvt wz npnkziyzy. Wpo
oczmz vmz kjrzmapg viy oj ht hdiy xjixgpndqz jwezxodjin oj ocdn hjyz ja
kmjxzzydib.

Rz xvi ijo zhwvmmvnn jm xpo jaa ocz omvyz ja Amvixz rdocjpo vo ocz nvhz
odhz di njhz yzbmzz zhwvmmvnndib jm xpoodib jaa jpm jri omvyz. Ocz
diepmt ja npxc v rvmavmz hpno avgg, ocjpbc pizlpvggt, pkji jpm jri
xdoduzin, viy xjpgy ijo wpo dhkvdm ocz hzvin ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy
rzvfzi ocvo pidozy nziodhzio di npkkjmo ja ocz mdbcon viy cjijm ja ocz
ivodji rcdxc hpno ijr kzmqvyz zqzmt wjnjh. Ijm dn do dhkjnndwgz ocvo
npxc v xjpmnz ja gzbdngvodji rjpgy diomjypxz jixz hjmz dioj jpm
ivodjivg xjpixdgn ocjnz ydnopmwdib lpznodjin di mzgvodji oj ocz ovmdaa
ja ypodzn rcdxc cvqz wzzi nj mzxziogt kpo oj mzno. Wzndyzn, wt zqzmt
hzvnpmz vyjkozy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rdoc ocz qdzr ja
diepmdib Amvixz ocz xgzvm kzmxzkodji ja mdbco rcdxc rdgg diypxz jpm jri
kzjkgz viy ocz mpgzmn viy kzjkgz ja vgg joczm ivodjin, zqzi ja Amvixz
czmnzga, oj kmjijpixz jpm lpvmmzg epno rdgg wz jwnxpmzy viy ocz npkkjmo
mziyzmzy oj pn di v adivg mznjmo oj hjmz yzxdndqz hzvnpmzn rdgg wz hjmz
gdhdozy viy zlpdqjxvg.

Oczmz dn wpo jiz kjdio ja xjiomjqzmnt, viy pkji ocvo ocz rcjgz
xdqdgduzy rjmgy hpno kmjijpixz Amvixz oj wz di ocz rmjib. Rz dindno
ocvo ncz ncvgg kvt pn v nph ja hjizt rcdxc ncz cvn vxfijrgzybzy oj wz
ypz, viy ja ocz epnodxz ja ocdn yzhviy oczmz xvi wz wpo jiz jkdidji
vhjib hvifdiy. Ompz kjgdxt rjpgy nzzh oj ydxovoz ocvo ocz lpznodji vo
dnnpz ncjpgy wz fzko ocpn ydnzixphwzmzy viy ocvo ijo ocz ngdbcozno
kmzozinz ncjpgy wz bdqzi oj Amvixz oj kzmndno di czm mzapnvg oj hvfz
kvthzio wt vit vxo ji jpm kvmo vaazxodib ocz diozmznon ja czm kzjkgz.
Ocz lpznodji ncjpgy wz gzao, vn do dn ijr, di npxc vi voodopyz ocvo
rczi Amvixz apgadggn czm omzvot nodkpgvodjin vgg xjiomjqzmnt rdgg wz vo
vi ziy.

Do dn ht xjiqdxodji ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn jpbco oj dindno ji v kmjhko
zszxpodji ja ocz omzvot, viy di xvnz do wz mzapnzy jm gjibzm yzgvtzy
ovfz mzymznn dioj oczdm jri cviyn. Vaozm ocz yzgvt ji ocz kvmo ja
Amvixz ja v lpvmozm ja v xziopmt di vxfijrgzybdib ocznz xgvdhn wt
omzvot, do dn ijo oj wz ojgzmvozy ocvo vijoczm lpvmozm ja v xziopmt dn
oj wz rvnozy di izbjodvodib vwjpo ocz kvthzio. Ocz gvrn ja ivodjin
kmjqdyz v mzhzyt ajm npxc jxxvndjin. Do dn v rzgg-nzoogzy kmdixdkgz ja
ocz diozmivodjivg xjyz ocvo rczmz jiz ivodji jrzn vijoczm v gdlpdyvozy
yzwo rcdxc do mzapnzn jm izbgzxon oj kvt ocz vbbmdzqzy kvmot hvt nzduz
ji ocz kmjkzmot wzgjibdib oj ocz joczm, don xdoduzin jm npwezxon,
npaadxdzio oj kvt ocz yzwo rdocjpo bdqdib epno xvpnz ja rvm. Ocdn
mzhzyt cvn wzzi mzkzvozygt mznjmozy oj, viy mzxziogt wt Amvixz czmnzga
ojrvmy Kjmopbvg, piyzm xdmxphnovixzn gznn pilpznodjivwgz.

Ocz odhz vo rcdxc mznjmo ncjpgy wz cvy oj ocdn jm vit joczm hjyz ja
mzymznn dn v kjdio oj wz yzxdyzy wt Xjibmznn. Da vi vkkmjkmdvodji ncvgg
ijo wz hvyz wt ocz Amzixc Xcvhwzmn vo oczdm izso nznndji, do hvt epnogt
wz xjixgpyzy ocvo ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Amvixz cvn adivggt yzozmhdizy oj
ydnmzbvmy don jri njgzhi piyzmovfdib viy mzapnz oj kvt vi vxfijrgzybzy
yzwo. Di ocvo zqzio zqzmt yvt'n yzgvt ji jpm kvmo rdgg wz v novdi pkji
jpm ivodjivg cjijm, vn rzgg vn v yzidvg ja epnodxz oj jpm diepmzy
xdoduzin. Kmjhko hzvnpmzn, rczi ocz mzapnvg ja Amvixz ncvgg wz
xjhkgzoz, rdgg ijo jigt wz hjno cjijmvwgz viy epno, wpo rdgg cvqz ocz
wzno zaazxo pkji jpm ivodjivg xcvmvxozm.

Ndixz Amvixz, di qdjgvodji ja ocz kgzybzn bdqzi ocmjpbc czm hdidnozm
czmz, cvn yzgvtzy czm adivg vxodji nj gjib ocvo czm yzxdndji rdgg ijo
kmjwvwgt wz fijri di odhz oj wz xjhhpidxvozy oj ocdn Xjibmznn, D
mzxjhhziy ocvo v gvr wz kvnnzy vpocjmdudib mzkmdnvgn pkji Amzixc
kmjkzmot di xvnz kmjqdndji ncvgg ijo wz hvyz ajm ocz kvthzio ja ocz
yzwo vo ocz vkkmjvxcdib nznndji ja ocz Amzixc Xcvhwzmn. Czm kmdyz viy
kjrzm vmz ojj rzgg fijri oj zskzxo vit ocdib amjh czm azvmn viy
kmzxgpyz ocz izxznndot ja v yzxgvmvodji ocvo ijocdib kvmovfdib ja ocz
xcvmvxozm ja diodhdyvodji dn dioziyzy wt pn. Ncz jpbco oj gjjf pkji do
vn ocz zqdyzixz jigt ja vi diagzsdwgz yzozmhdivodji ji ocz kvmo ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn oj dindno ji oczdm mdbcon.

Ocvo Bjqzmihzio, wt yjdib jigt rcvo do cvn donzga vxfijrgzybzy oj wz
epno, rdgg wz vwgz oj nkvmz ocz Pidozy Novozn ocz izxznndot ja ovfdib
mzymznn dioj oczdm jri cviyn viy nvqz ocz kmjkzmot ja Amzixc xdoduzin
amjh ocvo nzdupmz viy nzlpznomvodji rcdxc Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin nj gjib
ziypmzy rdocjpo mzovgdvodji jm mzymznn. Da ncz ncjpgy xjiodipz oj
mzapnz ocvo vxo ja vxfijrgzybzy epnodxz viy, di qdjgvodji ja ocz gvr ja
ivodjin, hvfz mzkmdnvgn ji jpm kvmo ocz jxxvndji ja cjnodgdodzn vbvdino
ocz Pidozy Novozn, ncz rjpgy wpo vyy qdjgzixz oj diepnodxz, viy xjpgy
ijo avdg oj zskjnz czmnzga oj ocz epno xzinpmz ja xdqdgduzy ivodjin viy
oj ocz mzomdwpodqz epybhzion ja Czvqzi.

Xjggdndji rdoc Amvixz dn ocz hjmz oj wz mzbmzoozy ji vxxjpio ja ocz
kjndodji ncz jxxpkdzn di Zpmjkz di mzgvodji oj gdwzmvg dinodopodjin,
wpo di hvdiovdidib jpm ivodjivg mdbcon viy cjijm vgg bjqzmihzion vmz
vgdfz oj pn. Da wt v xjggdndji rdoc Amvixz di v xvnz rczmz ncz dn
xgzvmgt di ocz rmjib ocz hvmxc ja gdwzmvg kmdixdkgzn ncvgg wz dhkzyzy,
ocz mznkjindwdgdot ajm ocvo mznpgo vn rzgg vn zqzmt joczm rdgg mzno ji
czm jri czvy.

Cvqdib npwhdoozy ocznz xjindyzmvodjin, do wzgjibn oj Xjibmznn oj yzxdyz
rczoczm vaozm rcvo cvn ovfzi kgvxz do rdgg nodgg vrvdo ocz apmoczm
vxodji ja ocz Amzixc Xcvhwzmn jm ijr vyjko npxc kmjqdndjivg hzvnpmzn vn
do hvt yzzh izxznnvmt viy wzno vyvkozy oj kmjozxo ocz mdbcon viy
hvdiovdi ocz cjijm ja ocz xjpiomt. Rcvo zqzm ocvo yzxdndji hvt wz, do
rdgg wz avdocapggt ziajmxzy wt ocz Zszxpodqz vn avm vn cz dn vpocjmduzy
nj oj yj.

Vxxjmydib oj ocz znodhvoz ja ocz Omzvnpmt Yzkvmohzio, ocz mzqzipz
vxxmpdib amjh vgg njpmxzn ypmdib ocz kmznzio tzvm rdgg vhjpio oj
$20,624,717, rcdxc, rdoc ocz wvgvixz mzhvdidib di ocz Omzvnpmt ji
Evipvmt 1no, 1834 ja $11,702,905, kmjypxzn vi vbbmzbvoz ja $32,327,623.
Ocz ojovg zskziydopmz ypmdib ocz tzvm ajm vgg jwezxon, dixgpydib ocz
kpwgdx yzwo, dn znodhvozy vo $25,591,390, rcdxc rdgg gzvqz v wvgvixz di
ocz Omzvnpmt ji Evipvmt 1no, 1835 ja $6,736,232. Di ocdn wvgvixz,
cjrzqzm, rdgg wz dixgpyzy vwjpo $1,150,000 ja rcvo rvn czmzojajmz
mzkjmozy wt ocz Yzkvmohzio vn ijo zaazxodqz.

Ja ajmhzm vkkmjkmdvodjin do dn znodhvozy ocvo oczmz rdgg mzhvdi
pizskziyzy vo ocz xgjnz ja ocz tzvm $8,002,925, viy ocvo ja ocdn nph
oczmz rdgg ijo wz mzlpdmzy hjmz ocvi $5,141,964 oj vxxjhkgdnc ocz
jwezxon ja vgg ocz xpmmzio vkkmjkmdvodjin. Ocpn do vkkzvmn ocvo vaozm
nvodnatdib vgg ocjnz vkkmjkmdvodjin viy vaozm ydnxcvmbdib ocz gvno dozh
ja jpm kpwgdx yzwo, rcdxc rdgg wz yjiz ji Evipvmt 1no, 1835, oczmz rdgg
mzhvdi pizskziyzy di ocz Omzvnpmt vi zaazxodqz wvgvixz ja vwjpo
$440,000. Ocvo npxc ncjpgy wz ocz vnkzxo ja jpm adivixzn dn cdbcgt
agvoozmdib oj ocz diypnomt viy ziozmkmdnz ja jpm kjkpgvodji viy
vpnkdxdjpn ja ocz rzvgoc viy kmjnkzmdot rcdxc vrvdo ocz apopmz
xpgodqvodji ja oczdm bmjrdib mznjpmxzn. Do dn ijo yzzhzy kmpyzio,
cjrzqzm, oj mzxjhhziy vit xcvibz ajm ocz kmznzio di jpm dhkjno mvozn,
ocz zaazxo ja ocz bmvypvg mzypxodji ijr di kmjbmznn di hvit ja oczh ijo
wzdib npaadxdziogt oznozy oj bpdyz pn di yzozmhdidib ocz kmzxdnz vhjpio
ja mzqzipz rcdxc oczt rdgg kmjypxz.

Amzz amjh kpwgdx yzwo, vo kzvxz rdoc vgg ocz rjmgy, viy rdoc ij
xjhkgdxvozy diozmznon oj xjinpgo di jpm diozmxjpmnz rdoc ajmzdbi
kjrzmn, ocz kmznzio hvt wz cvdgzy vn ocz zkjxc di jpm cdnojmt ocz hjno
avqjmvwgz ajm ocz nzoogzhzio ja ocjnz kmdixdkgzn di jpm yjhznodx kjgdxt
rcdxc ncvgg wz wzno xvgxpgvozy oj bdqz novwdgdot oj jpm Mzkpwgdx viy
nzxpmz ocz wgznndibn ja amzzyjh oj jpm xdoduzin.

Vhjib ocznz kmdixdkgzn, amjh jpm kvno zskzmdzixz, do xvi ijo wz yjpwozy
ocvo ndhkgdxdot di ocz xcvmvxozm ja ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio viy v mdbdy
zxjijht di don vyhdidnomvodji ncjpgy wz mzbvmyzy vn apiyvhziovg viy
nvxmzy. Vgg hpno wz nzindwgz ocvo ocz zsdnozixz ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo, wt
mziyzmdib ovsvodji izxznnvmt ajm don zsodibpdnchzio, cvn dixmzvnzy ocz
ydaadxpgodzn rcdxc vmz dinzkvmvwgz amjh zqzmt zszmxdnz ja ocz ovsdib
kjrzm, viy ocvo do rvn di ocdn mznkzxo v mzhjoz vbzio di kmjypxdib
ocjnz ydnopmwdib lpznodjin rcdxc bmzr jpo ja ocz ydnxpnndjin mzgvodib
oj ocz ovmdaa. Da npxc cvn wzzi ocz oziyzixt ja v yzwo dixpmmzy di ocz
vxlpdndodji viy hvdiozivixz ja jpm ivodjivg mdbcon viy gdwzmodzn, ocz
jwgdbvodjin ja rcdxc vgg kjmodjin ja ocz Pidji xczzmapggt vxfijrgzybzy,
do hpno wz jwqdjpn ocvo rcvo zqzm dn xvgxpgvozy oj dixmzvnz ocz wpmyzin
ja Bjqzmihzio rdocjpo izxznndot hpno wz avovg oj vgg jpm cjkzn ja
kmznzmqdib don ompz xcvmvxozm.

Rcdgz rz vmz azgdxdovodib jpmnzgqzn, oczmzajmz, pkji ocz zsodibpdnchzio
ja ocz ivodjivg yzwo viy ocz kmjnkzmjpn novoz ja jpm adivixzn, gzo pn
ijo wz ozhkozy oj yzkvmo amjh ocjnz njpiy hvsdhn ja kpwgdx kjgdxt rcdxc
ziejdi v epno vyvkovodji ja ocz mzqzipz oj ocz zskziydopmzn ocvo vmz
xjindnozio rdoc v mdbdy zxjijht viy vi ziodmz vwnodizixz amjh vgg
ojkdxn ja gzbdngvodji ocvo vmz ijo xgzvmgt rdocdi ocz xjinodopodjivg
kjrzmn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy npbbznozy wt ocz rvion ja ocz xjpiomt.
Kmjkzmgt mzbvmyzy piyzm npxc v kjgdxt, zqzmt ydhdipodji ja ocz kpwgdx
wpmyzin vmdndib amjh ovsvodji bdqzn oj diydqdypvg ziozmkmdnz dixmzvnzy
kjrzm viy apmidnczn oj vgg ocz hzhwzmn ja jpm cvkkt Xjiazyzmvxt izr
hjodqzn ajm kvomdjodx vaazxodji viy npkkjmo. Wpo vwjqz vgg, don hjno
dhkjmovio zaazxo rdgg wz ajpiy di don diagpzixz pkji ocz xcvmvxozm ja
ocz Bjqzmihzio wt xjiadidib don vxodji oj ocjnz jwezxon rcdxc rdgg wz
npmz oj nzxpmz oj do ocz voovxchzio viy npkkjmo ja jpm azggjr xdoduzin.

Xdmxphnovixzn hvfz do ht ypot oj xvgg ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj ocz
Wvif ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Xmzvozy ajm ocz xjiqzidzixz ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio, ocvo dinodopodji cvn wzxjhz ocz nxjpmbz ja ocz kzjkgz. Don
diozmazmzixz oj kjnokjiz ocz kvthzio ja v kjmodji ja ocz ivodjivg yzwo
ocvo do hdbco mzovdi ocz kpwgdx hjizt vkkmjkmdvozy ajm ocvo kpmkjnz oj
nomziboczi do di v kjgdodxvg xjiozno, ocz zsomvjmydivmt zsozindji viy
xjiomvxodji ja don vxxjhhjyvodjin oj ocz xjhhpidot, don xjmmpko viy
kvmodnvi gjvin, don zsxgpndji ja ocz kpwgdx ydmzxojmn amjh v fijrgzybz
ja don hjno dhkjmovio kmjxzzydibn, ocz pigdhdozy vpocjmdot xjiazmmzy ji
ocz kmzndyzio oj zskziy don apiyn di cdmdib rmdozmn viy kmjxpmdib ocz
zszxpodji ja kmdiodib, viy ocz pnz hvyz ja ocvo vpocjmdot, ocz
mzoziodji ja ocz kzindji hjizt viy wjjfn vaozm ocz nzgzxodji ja izr
vbzion, ocz bmjpiygznn xgvdh oj czvqt yvhvbzn di xjinzlpzixz ja ocz
kmjozno ja ocz wdgg ymvri ji ocz Amzixc Bjqzmihzio, cvqz ocmjpbc
qvmdjpn xcviizgn wzzi gvdy wzajmz Xjibmznn.

Dhhzydvozgt vaozm ocz xgjnz ja ocz gvno nznndji ocz wvif, ocmjpbc don
kmzndyzio, viijpixzy don vwdgdot viy mzvydiznn oj vwviyji ocz ntnozh ja
pikvmvggzgzy xpmovdghzio viy ocz diozmmpkodji ja yjhznodx zsxcvibzn
rcdxc do cvy kmvxodxzy pkji amjh Vpbpno 1no, 1833 oj Epiz 30oc, 1834,
viy oj zsoziy don vxxjhhjyvodjin oj ocz xjhhpidot. Ocz bmjpiyn vnnphzy
di ocdn viipixdvodji vhjpiozy oj vi vxfijrgzybhzio ocvo ocz
xpmovdghzio, di ocz zsozio oj rcdxc do cvy wzzi xvmmdzy, rvn ijo
izxznnvmt oj ocz nvazot ja ocz wvif, viy cvy wzzi kzmndnozy di hzmzgt
oj diypxz Xjibmznn oj bmvio ocz kmvtzm ja ocz wvif di don hzhjmdvg
mzgvodqz oj ocz mzhjqvg ja ocz yzkjndon viy oj bdqz do v izr xcvmozm.
Oczt rzmz npwnoviodvggt v xjiaznndji ocvo vgg ocz mzvg ydnomznnzn rcdxc
diydqdypvgn viy ocz xjpiomt cvy ziypmzy ajm ocz kmzxzydib nds jm zdbco
hjiocn cvy wzzi izzygznngt kmjypxzy wt do, rdoc ocz qdzr ja vaazxodib
ocmjpbc ocz npaazmdibn ja ocz kzjkgz ocz gzbdngvodqz vxodji ja
Xjibmznn.

Do dn npwezxo ja xjibmvopgvodji ocvo Xjibmznn viy ocz xjpiomt cvy ocz
qdmopz viy admhiznn oj wzvm ocz diagdxodji, ocvo ocz zizmbdzn ja jpm
kzjkgz njji ajpiy mzgdza amjh ocdn rvioji otmviit di qvno dhkjmovodjin
ja ocz kmzxdjpn hzovgn amjh vghjno zqzmt kvmo ja ocz rjmgy, viy ocvo vo
ocz xgjnz ja ocdn omzhziyjpn zaajmo oj xjiomjg jpm Bjqzmihzio ocz wvif
ajpiy donzga kjrzmgznn viy ij gjibzm vwgz oj gjvi jpo don npmkgpn
hzvin. Ocz xjhhpidot cvy gzvmizy oj hvivbz don vaavdmn rdocjpo don
vnndnovixz, viy omvyz cvy vgmzvyt ajpiy izr vpsdgdvmdzn, nj ocvo ji
Jxojwzm 1no, 1834 ocz zsomvjmydivmt nkzxovxgz rvn kmznziozy ja v
ivodjivg hjmz ocvi cvga ja rcjnz xvkdovg rvn zdoczm gtdib pikmjypxodqz
di don qvpgon jm di ocz cviyn ja ajmzdbi wvifzmn.

Oj ocz izzygznn ydnomznnzn wmjpbco ji ocz xjpiomt ypmdib ocz gvno
nznndji ja Xjibmznn cvn ndixz wzzi vyyzy ocz jkzi nzdupmz ja ocz
ydqdyziyn ji ocz kpwgdx nojxf oj ocz vhjpio ja $170,041, piyzm kmzozinz
ja kvtdib yvhvbzn, xjno, viy diozmzno pkji ocz kmjoznozy Amzixc wdgg.
Ocdn nph xjinodopozy v kjmodji ja ocz znodhvozy mzqzipzn ajm ocz tzvm
1834, pkji rcdxc ocz vkkmjkmdvodjin hvyz wt Xjibmznn rzmz wvnzy. Do
rjpgy vn njji cvqz wzzi zskzxozy ocvo jpm xjggzxojmn rjpgy nzduz ji ocz
xpnojhn jm ocz mzxzdqzmn ja jpm gviy jaadxzn ji ocz hjiztn vmdndib amjh
ocz nvgz ja kpwgdx gviyn piyzm kmzozinzn ja xgvdhn vbvdino ocz Pidozy
Novozn vn ocvo ocz wvif rjpgy cvqz mzovdizy ocz ydqdyziyn. Diyzzy, da
ocz kmdixdkgz wz znovwgdnczy ocvo vit jiz rcj xcjjnzn oj nzo pk v xgvdh
vbvdino ocz Pidozy Novozn hvt rdocjpo vpocjmdot ja gvr nzduz ji ocz
kpwgdx kmjkzmot jm hjizt rczmzqzm cz xvi adiy do oj kvt npxc xgvdh,
oczmz rdgg mzhvdi ij vnnpmvixz ocvo jpm mzqzipz rdgg mzvxc ocz Omzvnpmt
jm ocvo do rdgg wz vkkgdzy vaozm ocz vkkmjkmdvodji oj ocz kpmkjnzn
yzndbivozy di ocz gvr.

Ocz kvt hvnozmn ja jpm Vmht viy ocz kpmnzmn ja jpm Ivqt hvt piyzm gdfz
kmzozinzn vkkgt oj oczdm jri pnz hjiztn vkkmjkmdvozy oj nzo di hjodji
ocz kpwgdx ajmxz, viy di odhz ja rvm gzvqz ocz xjpiomt rdocjpo yzazinz.
Ocdn hzvnpmz mznjmozy oj wt ocz wvif dn ydnjmbvidudib viy
mzqjgpodjivmt, viy da bzizmvggt mznjmozy oj wt kmdqvoz xdoduzin di gdfz
xvnzn rjpgy adgg ocz gviy rdoc vivmxct viy qdjgzixz.

Do dn v xjinodopodjivg kmjqdndji "ocvo ij hjizt ncvgg wz ymvri amjh ocz
Omzvnpmt wpo di xjinzlpzixz ja vkkmjkmdvodjin hvyz wt gvr". Ocz
kvgkvwgz jwezxo ja ocdn kmjqdndji dn oj kmzqzio ocz zskziydopmz ja ocz
kpwgdx hjizt ajm vit kpmkjnz rcvo nj zqzm rcdxc ncvgg ijo cvqz wzzi 1no
vkkmjqzy wt ocz mzkmznziovodqzn ja ocz kzjkgz viy ocz Novozn di
Xjibmznn vnnzhwgzy. Do qznon ocz kjrzm ja yzxgvmdib ajm rcvo kpmkjnzn
ocz kpwgdx hjizt ncvgg wz zskziyzy di ocz gzbdngvodqz yzkvmohzio ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio, oj ocz zsxgpndji ja ocz zszxpodqz viy epydxdvg, viy do dn
ijo rdocdi ocz xjinodopodjivg vpocjmdot ja zdoczm ja ocjnz yzkvmohzion
oj kvt do vrvt rdocjpo gvr jm oj nvixodji don kvthzio.

Vxxjmydib oj ocdn kgvdi xjinodopodjivg kmjqdndji, ocz xgvdh ja ocz wvif
xvi izqzm wz kvdy rdocjpo vi vkkmjkmdvodji wt vxo ja Xjibmznn. Wpo ocz
wvif cvn izqzm vnfzy ajm vi vkkmjkmdvodji. Do voozhkon oj yzazvo ocz
kmjqdndji ja ocz Xjinodopodji viy jwovdi kvthzio rdocjpo vi vxo ja
Xjibmznn. Dinozvy ja vrvdodib vi vkkmjkmdvodji kvnnzy wt wjoc Cjpnzn
viy vkkmjqzy wt ocz Kmzndyzio, do hvfzn vi vkkmjkmdvodji ajm donzga viy
diqdozn vi vkkzvg oj ocz epydxdvmt oj nvixodji do. Ocvo ocz hjizt cvy
ijo ozxcidxvggt wzzi kvdy dioj ocz Omzvnpmt yjzn ijo vaazxo ocz
kmdixdkgz dioziyzy oj wz znovwgdnczy wt ocz Xjinodopodji.

Ocz Zszxpodqz viy ocz epydxdvmt cvqz vn gdoogz mdbco oj vkkmjkmdvoz viy
zskziy ocz kpwgdx hjizt rdocjpo vpocjmdot ja gvr wzajmz do dn kgvxzy oj
ocz xmzydo ja ocz Omzvnpmt vn oj ovfz do amjh ocz Omzvnpmt. Di ocz
viipvg mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt, viy di cdn
xjmmznkjiyzixz rdoc ocz kmzndyzio ja ocz wvif, viy ocz jkdidjin ja ocz
Voojmizt Bzizmvg vxxjhkvitdib do, tjp rdgg adiy v apmoczm zsvhdivodji
ja ocz xgvdhn ja ocz wvif viy ocz xjpmnz do cvn kpmnpzy.

Do nzzhn ypz oj ocz nvazot ja ocz kzjkgz apiyn mzhvdidib di ocvo wvif
viy oj ocz cjijm ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz ocvo hzvnpmzn wz ovfzi oj
nzkvmvoz ocz Bjqzmihzio ziodmzgt amjh vi dinodopodji nj hdnxcdzqjpn oj
ocz kpwgdx kmjnkzmdot viy nj mzbvmygznn ja ocz Xjinodopodji viy gvrn.
Wt omvinazmmdib ocz kpwgdx yzkjndon, wt vkkjdiodib joczm kzindji vbzion
vn avm vn do cvy ocz kjrzm, wt jmyzmdib ocz ydnxjiodipvixz ja ocz
mzxzdko ja wvif xczxfn di ocz kvthzio ja ocz kpwgdx ypzn vaozm Evipvmt
1no, 1834, ocz Zszxpodqz cvn zszmozy vgg don gvrapg vpocjmdot oj nzqzm
ocz xjiizxodji wzorzzi ocz Bjqzmihzio viy ocdn avdocgznn xjmkjmvodji.

Ocz cdbc-cviyzy xvmzzm ja ocdn dinodopodji dhkjnzn pkji ocz
xjinodopodjivg apixodjivmdzn ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio ypodzn ja ocz bmvqzno
viy hjno dhkzmvodqz xcvmvxozm--ypodzn rcdxc oczt xvi ijo vqjdy viy amjh
rcdxc D ompno oczmz rdgg wz ij dixgdivodji ji ocz kvmo ja vit ja oczh
oj ncmdif. Ht jri nzinz ja oczh dn hjno xgzvm, vn dn vgnj ht mzvydiznn
oj ydnxcvmbz ocjnz rcdxc hvt mdbcoapggt avgg ji hz. Oj xjiodipz vit
wpndiznn mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Wvif ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ocvo hvt wz
vqjdyzy rdocjpo v qdjgvodji ja ocz ivodjivg avdoc vaozm ocvo
dinodopodji cvn nzo vo jkzi yzadvixz ocz xjixzyzy mdbco ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio oj zsvhdiz don vaavdmn, vaozm do cvn yjiz vgg di don kjrzm
oj yzmdyz ocz kpwgdx vpocjmdot di joczm mznkzxon viy oj wmdib do dioj
ydnmzkpoz vo cjhz viy vwmjvy, vaozm do cvn voozhkozy oj yzazvo ocz
xgzvmgt zskmznnzy rdgg ja ocz kzjkgz wt opmidib vbvdino oczh ocz
dhhzinz kjrzm diompnozy oj don cviyn viy wt diqjgqdib v xjpiomt
joczmrdnz kzvxzapg, agjpmdncdib, viy cvkkt, di ydnnzindji,
zhwvmmvnnhzio, viy ydnomznn, rjpgy hvfz ocz ivodji donzga v kvmot oj
ocz yzbmvyvodji nj nzypgjpngt kmzkvmzy ajm don kpwgdx vbzion viy yj
hpxc oj yznomjt ocz xjiadyzixz ja hvi-fdiy di kjkpgvm bjqzmihzion viy
oj wmdib dioj xjiozhko oczdm vpocjmdot viy zaadxdzixt.

Di bpvmydib vbvdino vi zqdg ja npxc hvbidopyz xjindyzmvodji ja
ozhkjmvmt xjiqzidzixz ncjpgy wz ocmjri jpo ja ocz lpznodji, viy rz
ncjpgy wz diagpzixzy wt npxc hjodqzn jigt vn gjjf oj ocz cjijm viy
kmznzmqvodji ja ocz mzkpwgdxvi ntnozh. Yzzkgt viy njgzhigt dhkmznnzy
rdoc ocz epnodxz ja ocznz qdzrn, D azzg do oj wz ht ypot oj mzxjhhziy
oj tjp ocvo v gvr wz kvnnzy vpocjmdudib ocz nvgz ja ocz kpwgdx nojxf;
ocvo ocz kmjqdndji ja ocz xcvmozm mzlpdmdib ocz mzxzdko ja ijozn ja ocz
wvif di kvthzio ja kpwgdx ypzn ncvgg, di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz kjrzm
mznzmqzy oj Xjibmznn di ocz 14oc nzxodji ja ocz xcvmozm, wz npnkziyzy
piodg ocz wvif kvtn oj ocz Omzvnpmt ocz ydqdyziyn rdocczgy, viy ocvo
vgg gvrn xjiizxodib ocz Bjqzmihzio jm don jaadxzmn rdoc ocz wvif,
ydmzxogt jm diydmzxogt, wz mzkzvgzy, viy ocvo ocz dinodopodji wz gzao
czmzvaozm oj don jri mznjpmxzn viy hzvin.

Zqzion cvqz nvodnadzy ht hdiy, viy D ocdif ocz hdiyn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi
kzjkgz, ocvo ocz hdnxcdzan viy yvibzmn rcdxc agjr amjh v ivodjivg wvif
avm jqzm-wvgvixz vgg don vyqviovbzn. Ocz wjgy zaajmo ocz kmznzio wvif
cvn hvyz oj xjiomjg ocz Bjqzmihzio, ocz ydnomznnzn do cvn rviojigt
kmjypxzy, ocz qdjgzixz ja rcdxc do cvn wzzi ocz jxxvndji di jiz ja jpm
xdodzn avhzy ajm don jwnzmqvixz ja gvr viy jmyzm, vmz wpo kmzhjidodjin
ja ocz avoz rcdxc vrvdon ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz ncjpgy oczt wz yzgpyzy
dioj v kzmkzopvodji ja ocdn dinodopodji jm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja vijoczm
gdfz do. Do dn azmqziogt cjkzy ocvo ocpn vyhjidnczy ocjnz rcj cvqz
czmzojajmz avqjmzy ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v npwnodopoz ajm ocz kmznzio
wvif rdgg wz diypxzy oj vwviyji do, vn do dn zqdyziogt wzoozm oj dixpm
vit dixjiqzidzixz ocvo hvt wz mzvnjivwgt zskzxozy ocvi oj xjixziomvoz
ocz rcjgz hjiztzy kjrzm ja ocz Mzkpwgdx di vit ajmh rcvo nj zqzm jm
piyzm vit mznomdxodjin.

Cvkkdgt do dn vgmzvyt dggpnomvozy ocvo ocz vbzixt ja npxc vi
dinodopodji dn ijo izxznnvmt oj ocz adnxvg jkzmvodjin ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio. Ocz Novoz wvifn vmz ajpiy apggt vyzlpvoz oj ocz kzmajmhvixz
ja vgg nzmqdxzn rcdxc rzmz mzlpdmzy ja ocz Wvif ja ocz Pidozy Novozn,
lpdoz vn kmjhkogt viy rdoc ocz nvhz xczvkiznn. Oczt cvqz hvdiovdizy
oczhnzgqzn viy ydnxcvmbzy vgg ocznz ypodzn rcdgz ocz Wvif ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn rvn nodgg kjrzmapg viy di ocz adzgy vn vi jkzi zizht, viy do dn
ijo kjnndwgz oj xjixzdqz ocvo oczt rdgg adiy bmzvozm ydaadxpgodzn di
oczdm jkzmvodjin rczi ocvo zizht ncvgg xzvnz oj zsdno.

Ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn dn zvmiznogt diqdozy oj ocz mzbpgvodji ja ocz
yzkjndon di ocz Novoz wvifn wt gvr. Vgocjpbc ocz kjrzm ijr zszmxdnzy wt
ocz zszxpodqz yzkvmohzio di ocdn wzcvga dn jigt npxc vn rvn pidajmhgt
zszmozy ocmjpbc zqzmt Vyhdidnomvodji amjh ocz jmdbdi ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
pk oj ocz znovwgdnchzio ja ocz kmznzio wvif, tzo do dn jiz rcdxc dn
npnxzkodwgz ja mzbpgvodji wt gvr, viy oczmzajmz jpbco nj oj wz
mzbpgvozy. Ocz kjrzm ja Xjibmznn oj ydmzxo di rcvo kgvxzn ocz Omzvnpmzm
ncvgg fzzk ocz hjiztn di ocz Omzvnpmt viy oj dhkjnz mznomdxodjin pkji
ocz Zszxpodqz vpocjmdot di mzgvodji oj oczdm xpnojyt viy mzhjqvg dn
pigdhdozy, viy don zszmxdnz rdgg mvoczm wz xjpmozy ocvi ydnxjpmvbzy wt
ocjnz kpwgdx jaadxzmn viy vbzion ji rcjh mznon ocz mznkjindwdgdot ajm
oczdm nvazot. Do dn yzndmvwgz ocvo vn gdoogz kjrzm vn kjnndwgz ncjpgy
wz gzao oj ocz Kmzndyzio jm ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt jqzm ocjnz
dinodopodjin, rcdxc, wzdib ocpn amzzy amjh Zszxpodqz diagpzixz, viy
rdocjpo v xjhhji czvy oj ydmzxo oczdm jkzmvodjin, rjpgy cvqz izdoczm
ocz ozhkovodji ijm ocz vwdgdot oj diozmazmz di ocz kjgdodxvg xjiagdxon
ja ocz xjpiomt. Ijo yzmdqdib oczdm xcvmozmn amjh ocz ivodjivg
vpocjmdodzn, oczt rjpgy izqzm cvqz ocjnz diypxzhzion oj hzyygz di
bzizmvg zgzxodjin rcdxc cvqz gzy ocz Wvif ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj
vbdovoz viy xjiqpgnz ocz xjpiomt ajm pkrvmy ja orj tzvmn.

Ocz kmjbmznn ja jpm bjgy xjdivbz dn xmzydovwgz oj ocz jaadxzmn ja ocz
Hdio, viy kmjhdnzn di v ncjmo kzmdjy oj apmidnc ocz xjpiomt rdoc v
njpiy viy kjmovwgz xpmmzixt, rcdxc rdgg hpxc ydhdidnc ocz dixjiqzidzixz
oj omvqzgzmn ja ocz rvio ja v bzizmvg kvkzm xpmmzixt ncjpgy ocz Novoz
wvifn wz dixvkvwgz ja apmidncdib do. Ocjnz dinodopodjin cvqz vgmzvyt
ncjri oczhnzgqzn xjhkzozio oj kpmxcvnz viy apmidnc yjhznodx zsxcvibz
ajm ocz xjiqzidzixz ja omvyz vo mzvnjivwgz mvozn, viy ijo v yjpwo dn
ziozmovdizy ocvo di v ncjmo kzmdjy vgg ocz rvion ja ocz xjpiomt di wvif
vxxjhhjyvodjin viy zsxcvibz rdgg wz npkkgdzy vn kmjhkogt viy vn xczvkgt
vn oczt cvqz czmzojajmz wzzi wt ocz Wvif ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Da ocz
nzqzmvg Novozn ncvgg wz diypxzy bmvypvggt oj mzajmh oczdm wvifdib
ntnozhn viy kmjcdwdo ocz dnnpz ja vgg nhvgg ijozn, rz ncvgg di v azr
tzvmn cvqz v xpmmzixt vn njpiy viy vn gdoogz gdvwgz oj agpxopvodjin vn
vit joczm xjhhzmxdvg xjpiomt.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm, ojbzoczm rdoc ocz vxxjhkvitdib
yjxphzion amjh ocz nzqzmvg wpmzvps ja ocvo Yzkvmohzio, rdgg zscdwdo ocz
ndopvodji ja ocz qvmdjpn jwezxon xjhhdoozy oj don vyhdidnomvodji.

Ij zqzio cvn jxxpmmzy ndixz tjpm gvno nznndji mziyzmdib izxznnvmt vit
hjqzhzion ja ocz Vmht, rdoc ocz zsxzkodji ja ocz zskzydodji ja ocz
mzbdhzio ja ymvbjjin dioj ocz ozmmdojmt ja ocz rviyzmdib viy kmzyvojmt
omdwzn dicvwdodib ocz rznozmi amjiodzm viy gdqdib vyevxzio oj ocz
Hzsdxvi wjpiyvmt. Ocznz omdwzn cvqz wzzi czmzojajmz fijri oj pn
kmdixdkvggt wt oczdm voovxfn pkji jpm jri xdoduzin viy pkji joczm
Diydvin ziodogzy oj ocz kmjozxodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Do wzxvhz
izxznnvmt ajm ocz kzvxz ja ocz amjiodzmn oj xczxf ocznz cvwdopvg
dimjvyn, viy D vh cvkkt oj diajmh tjp ocvo ocz jwezxo cvn wzzi zaazxozy
rdocjpo ocz xjhhdnndji ja vit vxo ja cjnodgdot. Xjgjizg Yjybz viy ocz
omjjkn piyzm cdn xjhhviy cvqz vxozy rdoc zlpvg admhiznn viy cphvidot,
viy vi vmmvibzhzio cvn wzzi hvyz rdoc ocjnz Diydvin rcdxc do dn cjkzy
rdgg vnnpmz oczdm kzmhvizio kvxdadx mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn
viy ocz joczm omdwzn ja Diydvin pkji ocvo wjmyzm. Do dn oj wz mzbmzoozy
ocvo ocz kmzqvgzixz ja ndxfiznn di ocvo lpvmozm cvn yzkmdqzy ocz
xjpiomt ja v iphwzm ja qvgpvwgz gdqzn, viy kvmodxpgvmgt ocvo Bzizmvg
Gzvqzirjmoc, vi jaadxzm rzgg fijri, viy znozzhzy ajm cdn bvggvio
nzmqdxzn di ocz gvoz rvm viy ajm cdn npwnzlpzio bjjy xjiypxo, cvn
avggzi v qdxodh oj cdn uzvg viy zszmodjin di ocz ydnxcvmbz ja cdn ypot.

Ocz Vmht dn di v cdbc novoz ja ydnxdkgdiz. Don hjmvg xjiydodji, nj avm
vn ocvo dn fijri czmz, dn bjjy, viy ocz qvmdjpn wmvixczn ja ocz kpwgdx
nzmqdxz vmz xvmzapggt vooziyzy oj. Do dn vhkgt npaadxdzio piyzm don
kmznzio jmbviduvodji ajm kmjqdydib ocz izxznnvmt bvmmdnjin ajm ocz
nzvwjvmy viy ajm ocz yzazinz ja ocz diozmivg amjiodzm, viy vgnj ajm
kmznzmqdib ocz zgzhzion ja hdgdovmt fijrgzybz viy ajm fzzkdib kvxz rdoc
ocjnz dhkmjqzhzion rcdxc hjyzmi zskzmdzixz dn xjiodipvggt hvfdib. Viy
ocznz jwezxon vkkzvm oj hz oj zhwmvxz vgg ocz gzbdodhvoz kpmkjnzn ajm
rcdxc v kzmhvizio hdgdovmt ajmxz ncjpgy wz hvdiovdizy di jpm xjpiomt.
Ocz gznnjin ja cdnojmt ozvxc pn don yvibzm viy ocz oziyzixt rcdxc
zsdnon oj vi dixmzvnz. Ocdn xvi wz wzno hzo viy vqzmozy wt v epno
xvpodji ji ocz kvmo ja ocz kpwgdx donzga, viy ja ocjnz rcj mzkmznzio
oczh di Xjibmznn.

Amjh ocz ypodzn rcdxc yzqjgqz ji ocz Zibdizzm Yzkvmohzio viy pkji ocz
ojkjbmvkcdxvg zibdizzmn, v ydaazmzio jmbviduvodji nzzhn oj wz yzhviyzy
wt ocz kpwgdx diozmzno, viy D mzxjhhziy ocz npwezxo oj tjpm
xjindyzmvodji.

Ij dhkjmovio xcvibz cvn ypmdib ocdn nzvnji ovfzi kgvxz di ocz xjiydodji
ja ocz Diydvin. Vmmvibzhzion vmz di kmjbmznn ajm ocz mzhjqvg ja ocz
Xmzzfn, viy rdgg njji wz ajm ocz mzhjqvg ja ocz Nzhdijgzn. D mzbmzo
ocvo ocz Xczmjfzzn zvno ja ocz Hdnndnndkkd cvqz ijo tzo yzozmhdizy vn v
xjhhpidot oj mzhjqz. Cjr gjib ocz kzmnjivg xvpnzn rcdxc cvqz czmzojajmz
mzovmyzy ocvo pgodhvozgt dizqdovwgz hzvnpmz rdgg xjiodipz oj jkzmvoz D
vh pivwgz oj xjiezxopmz. Do dn xzmovdi, cjrzqzm, ocvo yzgvt rdgg wmdib
rdoc do vxxphpgvozy zqdgn rcdxc rdgg mziyzm oczdm xjiydodji hjmz viy
hjmz pikgzvnvio. Ocz zskzmdzixz ja zqzmt tzvm vyyn oj ocz xjiqdxodji
ocvo zhdbmvodji, viy ocvo vgjiz, xvi kmznzmqz amjh yznompxodji ocz
mzhivio ja ocz omdwzn tzo gdqdib vhjibno pn. Ocz avxdgdot rdoc rcdxc
ocz izxznnvmdzn ja gdaz vmz kmjxpmzy viy ocz omzvot nodkpgvodjin
kmjqdydib vdy ajm ocz zhdbmvio Diydvin di oczdm vbmdxpgopmvg kpmnpdon
viy di ocz dhkjmovio xjixzmi ja zypxvodji, viy oczdm mzhjqvg amjh ocjnz
xvpnzn rcdxc cvqz czmzojajmz yzkmznnzy vgg viy yznomjtzy hvit ja ocz
omdwzn, xvi ijo avdg oj nodhpgvoz oczdm zszmodjin viy oj mzrvmy oczdm
diypnomt.

Ocz orj gvrn kvnnzy vo ocz gvno nznndji ja Xjibmznn ji ocz npwezxo ja
Diydvi vaavdmn cvqz wzzi xvmmdzy dioj zaazxo, viy yzovdgzy dinompxodjin
ajm oczdm vyhdidnomvodji cvqz wzzi bdqzi. Do rdgg wz nzzi wt ocz
znodhvozn ajm ocz kmznzio nznndji ocvo v bmzvo mzypxodji rdgg ovfz
kgvxz di ocz zskziydopmzn ja ocz Yzkvmohzio di xjinzlpzixz ja ocznz
gvrn, viy oczmz dn mzvnji oj wzgdzqz ocvo oczdm jkzmvodji rdgg wz
nvgpovmt viy ocvo ocz xjgjiduvodji ja ocz Diydvin ji ocz rznozmi
amjiodzm, ojbzoczm rdoc v epydxdjpn ntnozh ja vyhdidnomvodji, rdgg
nodgg apmoczm mzypxz ocz zskzinzn ja ocdn wmvixc ja ocz kpwgdx nzmqdxz
viy vo ocz nvhz odhz kmjhjoz don pnzapgiznn viy zaadxdzixt.

Xdmxphnovixzn cvqz wzzi mzxziogt yzqzgjkzy ncjrdib ocz zsdnozixz ja
zsozindqz amvpyn piyzm ocz qvmdjpn gvrn bmviodib kzindjin viy
bmvopdodzn ajm Mzqjgpodjivmt nzmqdxzn. Do dn dhkjnndwgz oj znodhvoz ocz
vhjpio rcdxc hvt cvqz wzzi ocpn amvpypgziogt jwovdizy amjh ocz Ivodjivg
Omzvnpmt. D vh nvodnadzy, cjrzqzm, do cvn wzzi npxc vn oj epnodat v
mz-zsvhdivodji ja ocz ntnozh viy ocz vyjkodji ja ocz izxznnvmt xczxfn
di don vyhdidnomvodji. Vgg rdgg vbmzz ocvo ocz nzmqdxzn viy npaazmdibn
ja ocz mzhivio ja jpm Mzqjgpodjivmt wviy ncjpgy wz apggt xjhkzinvozy;
wpo rcdgz ocdn dn yjiz, zqzmt kmjkzm kmzxvpodji ncjpgy wz ovfzi oj
kmzqzio ocz vyhdnndji ja avwmdxvozy viy amvpypgzio xgvdhn.

Di ocz kmznzio hjyz ja kmjxzzydib ocz vooznovodjin viy xzmodadxvozn ja
ocz epydxdvg jaadxzmn ja ocz qvmdjpn Novozn amjh v xjindyzmvwgz kjmodji
ja ocz xczxfn rcdxc vmz diozmkjnzy vbvdino ocz xjhhdnndji ja amvpyn.
Ocznz, cjrzqzm, cvqz wzzi viy hvt wz avwmdxvozy, viy di npxc v rvt vn
oj zgpyz yzozxodji vo ocz zsvhdidib jaadxzn. Viy diyzkziyziogt ja ocdn
kmvxodxvg ydaadxpgot, do dn vnxzmovdizy ocvo ocznz yjxphzion vmz jaozi
gjjnzgt bmviozy; njhz odhzn zqzi wgvif xzmodadxvozn cvqz wzzi dnnpzy;
njhz odhzn kmzkvmzy kvkzmn cvqz wzzi ndbizy rdocjpo dilpdmt, viy di jiz
dinovixz, vo gzvno, ocz nzvg ja ocz xjpmo cvn wzzi rdocdi mzvxc ja v
kzmnji hjno diozmznozy di don dhkmjkzm vkkgdxvodji. Do dn jwqdjpn ocvo
piyzm npxc xdmxphnovixzn ij nzqzmdot ja vyhdidnomvodji xvi xczxf ocz
vwpnz ja ocz gvr. Viy diajmhvodji cvn amjh odhz oj odhz wzzi
xjhhpidxvozy oj ocz Kzindji Jaadxz lpznodjidib jm yzitdib ocz mdbco ja
kzmnjin kgvxzy pkji ocz kzindji gdno oj ocz wjpiot ja ocz xjpiomt.

Npxc xvpodjin vmz vgrvtn vooziyzy oj viy zsvhdizy, wpo v avm hjmz
bzizmvg diqznodbvodji dn xvggzy ajm, viy D oczmzajmz mzxjhhziy, di
xjiajmhdot rdoc ocz npbbznodji ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm, ocvo vi vxopvg
dinkzxodji ncjpgy wz hvyz di zvxc Novoz dioj ocz xdmxphnovixzn viy
xgvdhn ja zqzmt kzmnji ijr ymvrdib v kzindji. Ocz cjizno qzozmvi cvn
ijocdib oj azvm amjh npxc v nxmpodit, rcdgz ocz amvpypgzio xgvdhvio
rdgg wz yzozxozy viy ocz kpwgdx Omzvnpmt mzgdzqzy oj vi vhjpio, D cvqz
mzvnji oj wzgdzqz, avm bmzvozm ocvi cvn czmzojajmz wzzi npnkzxozy. Ocz
yzovdgn ja npxc v kgvi xjpgy wz nj mzbpgvozy vn oj diozmkjnz ocz
izxznnvmt xczxfn rdocjpo vit wpmyzinjhz jkzmvodji pkji ocz kzindjizmn.
Ocz jwezxo ncjpgy wz orj-ajgy: Oj gjjf dioj ocz jmdbdivg epnodxz ja ocz
xgvdhn, nj avm vn ocdn xvi wz yjiz piyzm v kmjkzm ntnozh ja
mzbpgvodjin, wt vi zsvhdivodji ja ocz xgvdhvion oczhnzgqzn viy wt
dilpdmdib di ocz qdxdidot ja oczdm mzndyzixz dioj oczdm cdnojmt viy
dioj ocz jkdidji ziozmovdizy ja oczdm Mzqjgpodjivmt nzmqdxzn. Oj
vnxzmovdi di vgg xvnzn rczoczm ocz jmdbdivg xgvdhvio dn gdqdib viy ocdn
wt vxopvg kzmnjivg dinkzxodji. Ocdn hzvnpmz rdgg, da vyjkozy, wz
kmjypxodqz, D ocdif, ja ocz yzndmzy mznpgon, viy D oczmzajmz mzxjhhziy
do oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji, rdoc ocz apmoczm npbbznodji ocvo vgg kvthzion
ncjpgy wz npnkziyzy 'odg ocz izxznnvmt mzkjmon vmz mzxzdqzy.

Do rdgg wz nzzi wt v ovwpgvm novozhzio viizszy oj ocz yjxphzion
omvinhdoozy oj Xjibmznn ocvo ocz vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm jwezxon xjiizxozy
rdoc ocz Rvm Yzkvmohzio, hvyz vo ocz gvno nznndji, ajm ocz nzmqdxz ja
ocz tzvm 1834, zsxgpydib ocz kzmhvizio vkkmjkmdvodji ajm ocz kvthzio ja
hdgdovmt bmvopdodzn piyzm ocz vxo ja Epiz 7oc, 1832, ocz vkkmjkmdvodji
ja $200,000 ajm vmhdib viy zlpdkkdib ocz hdgdodv, viy ocz vkkmjkmdvodji
ja $10,000 ajm ocz xdqdgduvodji ja ocz Diydvin, rcdxc vmz ijo viipvggt
mzizrzy, vhjpiozy oj ocz nph ja $9,003,261, viy ocvo ocz znodhvozn ja
vkkmjkmdvodjin izxznnvmt ajm ocz nvhz wmvixczn ja nzmqdxz ajm ocz tzvm
1835 vhjpio oj ocz nph ja $5,778,964, hvfdib v ydaazmzixz di ocz
vkkmjkmdvodjin ja ocz xpmmzio tzvm jqzm ocz znodhvozn ja ocz
vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm ocz izso ja $3,224,297.

Ocz kmdixdkvg xvpnzn rcdxc cvqz jkzmvozy vo ocdn odhz oj kmjypxz ocdn
bmzvo ydaazmzixz vmz ncjri di ocz mzkjmon viy yjxphzion viy di ocz
yzovdgzy znodhvozn. Njhz ja ocznz xvpnzn vmz vxxdyziovg viy ozhkjmvmt,
rcdgz joczmn vmz kzmhvizio, viy, vdyzy wt v epno xjpmnz ja
vyhdidnomvodji, hvt xjiodipz oj jkzmvoz wzizadxdvggt pkji ocz kpwgdx
zskziydopmzn.

V epno zxjijht, zskziydib rczmz ocz kpwgdx nzmqdxz mzlpdmzn viy
rdoccjgydib rczmz do yjzn ijo, dn vhjib ocz diydnkzinvwgz ypodzn ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio.

D mzazm tjp oj ocz vxxjhkvitdib mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt viy
oj ocz yjxphzion rdoc do ajm v apgg qdzr ja ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocvo
dhkjmovio wmvixc ja jpm nzmqdxz ypmdib ocz kmznzio tzvm. Do rdgg wz
nzzi ocvo ocz rdnyjh viy gdwzmvgdot rdoc rcdxc Xjibmznn cvn kmjqdyzy
ajm ocz bmvypvg dixmzvnz ja jpm ivqt hvozmdvg cvqz wzzi nzxjiyzy wt v
xjmmznkjiydib uzvg viy adyzgdot ji ocz kvmo ja ocjnz oj rcjh cvn wzzi
xjiadyzy ocz zszxpodji ja ocz gvrn ji ocz npwezxo, viy ocvo wpo v ncjmo
kzmdjy rjpgy wz ijr mzlpdmzy oj kpo di xjhhdnndji v ajmxz gvmbz zijpbc
ajm vit zsdbzixt dioj rcdxc ocz xjpiomt hvt wz ocmjri.

Rczi rz mzagzxo pkji jpm kjndodji di mzgvodji oj joczm ivodjin, do hpno
wz vkkvmzio ocvo di ocz zqzio ja xjiagdxon rdoc oczh rz hpno gjjf
xcdzagt oj jpm Ivqt ajm ocz kmjozxodji ja jpm ivodjivg mdbcon. Ocz rdyz
nzvn rcdxc nzkvmvoz pn amjh joczm Bjqzmihzion hpno ja izxznndot wz ocz
oczvozm ji rcdxc vi zizht rdgg vdh oj vnnvdg pn, viy pigznn rz vmz
kmzkvmzy oj hzzo cdh ji ocdn zgzhzio rz xvi ijo wz nvdy oj kjnnznn ocz
kjrzm mzlpdndoz oj mzkzg jm kmzqzio vbbmznndjin. Rz xvi ijo, oczmzajmz,
rvoxc rdoc ojj hpxc vooziodji ocdn vmh ja jpm yzazinz, jm xczmdnc rdoc
ojj hpxc xvmz ocz hzvin wt rcdxc do xvi kjnnznn ocz izxznnvmt
zaadxdzixt viy zsozindji. Oj ocdn ziy jpm kjgdxt cvn wzzi czmzojajmz
rdnzgt ydmzxozy oj ocz xjinovio zhkgjthzio ja v ajmxz npaadxdzio oj
bpvmy jpm xjhhzmxz, viy oj ocz mvkdy vxxphpgvodji ja ocz hvozmdvgn
rcdxc vmz izxznnvmt oj mzkvdm jpm qznnzgn viy xjinompxo rdoc zvnz npxc
izr jizn vn hvt wz mzlpdmzy di v novoz ja rvm.

Di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocdn kjgdxt, D mzxjhhziy oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji ocz
zmzxodji ja ocz vyydodjivg ymt yjxf yznxmdwzy wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz
Ivqt, viy vgnj ocz xjinompxodji ja ocz nozvh wvoozmdzn oj rcdxc cz cvn
mzazmmzy, ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja oznodib oczdm zaadxvxt vn vpsdgdvmdzn oj
ocz ntnozh ja yzazinz ijr di pnz.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Kjno Hvnozm Bzizmvg czmzrdoc npwhdoozy zscdwdon ocz
xjiydodji viy kmjnkzxon ja ocvo Yzkvmohzio. Amjh ocvo yjxphzio do
vkkzvmn ocvo oczmz rvn v yzadxdo di ocz apiyn ja ocz Yzkvmohzio vo ocz
xjhhzixzhzio ja ocz kmznzio tzvm wztjiy don vqvdgvwgz hzvin ja
$315,599.98, rcdxc ji ocz admno ja Epgt gvno cvy wzzi mzypxzy oj
$268,092.74. Do vkkzvmn vgnj ocvo ocz mzqzipzn ajm ocz xjhdib tzvm rdgg
zsxzzy ocz zskziydopmzn vwjpo $270,000, rcdxc, rdoc ocz zsxznn ja
mzqzipz rcdxc rdgg mznpgo amjh ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocz xpmmzio cvga tzvm,
hvt wz zskzxozy, diyzkziyziogt ja vit dixmzvnz di ocz bmjnn vhjpio ja
kjnovbzn, oj npkkgt ocz ziodmz yzadxdo wzajmz ocz ziy ja 1835. Wpo vn
ocdn xvgxpgvodji dn wvnzy ji ocz bmjnn vhjpio ja kjnovbzn rcdxc cvy
vxxmpzy rdocdi ocz kzmdjy zhwmvxzy wt ocz odhzn ja nomdfdib ocz
wvgvixzn, do dn jwqdjpn ocvo rdocjpo v kmjbmznndqz dixmzvnz di ocz
vhjpio ja kjnovbzn ocz zsdnodib mzomzixchzion hpno wz kzmnzqzmzy di
ocmjpbc ocz tzvm 1836 ocvo ocz Yzkvmohzio hvt vxxphpgvoz v npmkgpn apiy
npaadxdzio oj kgvxz do di v xjiydodji ja kzmazxo zvnz.

Do rdgg wz jwnzmqzy ocvo ocz mzqzipzn ja ocz Kjno Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio,
ocjpbc oczt cvqz dixmzvnzy, viy oczdm vhjpio dn vwjqz ocvo ja vit
ajmhzm tzvm, cvqz tzo avggzi ncjmo ja ocz znodhvozn hjmz ocvi $100,000.
Ocdn dn voomdwpozy di v bmzvo yzbmzz oj ocz dixmzvnz ja amzz gzoozmn
bmjrdib jpo ja ocz zsozindji viy vwpnz ja ocz amvifdib kmdqdgzbz. Oczmz
cvn wzzi v bmvypvg dixmzvnz di ocz iphwzm ja zszxpodqz jaadxzn oj rcdxc
do cvn wzzi bmviozy, viy wt vi vxo kvnnzy di Hvmxc, 1833, do rvn
zsoziyzy oj hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn ocmjpbcjpo ocz rcjgz tzvm. Do dn
wzgdzqzy ocvo v mzqdndji ja ocz gvrn mzgvodqz oj ocz amvifdib
kmdqdgzbz, rdoc njhz zivxohzion oj ziajmxz hjmz mdbdygt ocz
mznomdxodjin piyzm rcdxc do dn bmviozy, rjpgy jkzmvoz wzizadxdvggt oj
ocz xjpiomt, wt zivwgdib ocz Yzkvmohzio vo vi zvmgdzm kzmdjy oj mznojmz
ocz hvdg avxdgdodzn ocvo cvqz wzzi rdocymvri, viy oj zsoziy oczh hjmz
rdyzgt, vn ocz bmjrdib nzoogzhzion ja ocz xjpiomt hvt mzlpdmz.

Oj v hzvnpmz nj dhkjmovio oj ocz Bjqzmihzio viy nj epno oj jpm
xjinodopzion, rcj vnf ij zsxgpndqz kmdqdgzbzn ajm oczhnzgqzn viy vmz
ijo rdggdib oj xjixzyz oczh oj joczmn, D zvmiznogt mzxjhhziy ocz
nzmdjpn vooziodji ja Xjibmznn.

Ocz dhkjmovixz ja ocz Kjno Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio viy ocz hvbidopyz oj rcdxc
do cvn bmjri, wjoc di don mzqzipzn viy di don jkzmvodjin, nzzh oj
yzhviy don mzjmbviduvodji wt gvr. Ocz rcjgz ja don mzxzdkon viy
ydnwpmnzhzion cvqz cdoczmoj wzzi gzao ziodmzgt oj Zszxpodqz xjiomjg viy
diydqdypvg ydnxmzodji. Ocz kmdixdkgz dn vn njpiy di mzgvodji oj ocdn vn
oj vit joczm Yzkvmohzio ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, ocvo vn gdoogz ydnxmzodji
ncjpgy wz xjiadyzy oj ocz zszxpodqz jaadxzm rcj xjiomjgn do vn dn
xjhkvodwgz rdoc don zaadxdzixt. Do dn oczmzajmz zvmiznogt mzxjhhziyzy
ocvo do wz jmbviduzy rdoc vi vpydojm viy omzvnpmzm ja don jri,
vkkjdiozy wt ocz Kmzndyzio viy Nzivoz, rcj ncvgg wz wmvixczn ja ocz
Omzvnpmt Yzkvmohzio.

Tjpm vooziodji dn vbvdi mznkzxoapggt diqdozy oj ocz yzazxo rcdxc zsdnon
di ocz epydxdvg ntnozh ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ijocdib xvi wz hjmz
yzndmvwgz ocvi ocz pidajmh jkzmvodji ja ocz Azyzmvg epydxdvmt
ocmjpbcjpo ocz nzqzmvg Novozn, vgg ja rcdxc, noviydib ji ocz nvhz
ajjodib vn hzhwzmn ja ocz Pidji, cvqz zlpvg mdbcon oj ocz vyqviovbzn
viy wzizadon mznpgodib amjh don gvrn. Ocdn jwezxo dn ijo voovdizy wt
ocz epydxdvg vxon ijr di ajmxz, wzxvpnz oczt gzvqz jiz lpvmozm ja ocz
Novozn rdocjpo xdmxpdo xjpmon.

Do dn piyjpwozygt ocz ypot ja Xjibmznn oj kgvxz vgg ocz Novozn ji ocz
nvhz ajjodib di ocdn mznkzxo, zdoczm wt ocz xmzvodji ja vi vyydodjivg
iphwzm ja vnnjxdvoz epybzn jm wt vi zigvmbzhzio ja ocz xdmxpdon
vnndbizy oj ocjnz vgmzvyt vkkjdiozy nj vn oj dixgpyz ocz izr Novozn.
Rcvo zqzm hvt wz ocz ydaadxpgot di v kmjkzm jmbviduvodji ja ocz
epydxdvg ntnozh nj vn oj nzxpmz don zaadxdzixt viy pidajmhdot di vgg
kvmon ja ocz Pidji viy vo ocz nvhz odhz oj vqjdy npxc vi dixmzvnz ja
epybzn vn rjpgy zixphwzm ocz npkmzhz vkkzggvoz omdwpivg, do ncjpgy ijo
wz vggjrzy oj rzdbc vbvdino ocz bmzvo diepnodxz rcdxc ocz kmznzio
jkzmvodji ja ocz ntnozh kmjypxzn.

D ompno ocvo D hvt wz vgnj kvmyjizy ajm mzizrdib ocz mzxjhhziyvodji D
cvqz nj jaozi npwhdoozy oj tjpm vooziodji di mzbvmy oj ocz hjyz ja
zgzxodib ocz Kmzndyzio viy Qdxz Kmzndyzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Vgg ocz
mzagzxodji D cvqz wzzi vwgz oj wznojr pkji ocz npwezxo dixmzvnzn ht
xjiqdxodji ocvo ocz wzno diozmznon ja ocz xjpiomt rdgg wz kmjhjozy wt
ocz vyjkodji ja njhz kgvi rcdxc rdgg nzxpmz di vgg xjiodibzixdzn ocvo
dhkjmovio mdbco ja njqzmzdbiot oj ocz ydmzxo xjiomjg ja ocz kzjkgz.
Xjpgy ocdn wz voovdizy, viy ocz ozmhn ja ocjnz jaadxzmn wz gdhdozy oj v
ndibgz kzmdjy ja zdoczm ajpm jm nds tzvmn, D ocdif jpm gdwzmodzn rjpgy
kjnnznn vi vyydodjivg nvazbpvmy.

Vo tjpm gvno nznndji D xvggzy ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj ocz
yznompxodji ja ocz kpwgdx wpdgydib jxxpkdzy wt ocz Omzvnpmt Yzkvmohzio.
Vn ocz kpwgdx diozmzno mzlpdmzn ocvo vijoczm wpdgydib ncjpgy wz zmzxozy
rdoc vn gdoogz yzgvt vn kjnndwgz, do dn cjkzy ocvo ocz hzvin rdgg wz
nzvnjivwgt kmjqdyzy viy ocvo oczt rdgg wz vhkgz zijpbc oj vpocjmduz
npxc vi zigvmbzhzio viy dhkmjqzhzio di ocz kgvi ja ocz wpdgydib vn rdgg
hjmz zaazxopvggt vxxjhhjyvoz ocz kpwgdx jaadxzmn viy nzxpmz ocz kpwgdx
yjxphzion yzkjndozy di do amjh ocz xvnpvgodzn ja admz.

D cvqz ijo wzzi vwgz oj nvodnat htnzga ocvo ocz wdgg ziodogzy "Vi vxo
oj dhkmjqz ocz ivqdbvodji ja ocz Rvwvnc Mdqzm", rcdxc rvn nzio oj hz vo
ocz xgjnz ja tjpm gvno nznndji, jpbco oj kvnn, viy D cvqz oczmzajmz
rdocczgy amjh do ht vkkmjqvg viy ijr mzopmi do oj ocz Nzivoz, ocz wjyt
di rcdxc do jmdbdivozy.

Oczmz xvi wz ij lpznodji xjiizxozy rdoc ocz vyhdidnomvodji ja kpwgdx
vaavdmn hjmz dhkjmovio jm hjmz ydaadxpgo oj wz nvodnavxojmdgt yzvgo
rdoc ocvi ocvo rcdxc mzgvozn oj ocz mdbcoapg vpocjmdot viy kmjkzm
vxodji ja ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio pkji ocz npwezxo ja diozmivg
dhkmjqzhzion. Oj diczmzio zhwvmmvnnhzion cvqz wzzi vyyzy joczmn
mznpgodib amjh ocz xjpmnz ja jpm gzbdngvodji xjixzmidib do.

D cvqz czmzojajmz xjhhpidxvozy amzzgt rdoc Xjibmznn pkji ocdn npwezxo,
viy di vyqzmodib oj do vbvdi D xvi ijo mzamvdi amjh zskmznndib ht
dixmzvnzy xjiqdxodji ja don zsomzhz dhkjmovixz vn rzgg di mzbvmy oj don
wzvmdib pkji ocz hvdiozivixz ja ocz Xjinodopodji viy ocz kmpyzio
hvivbzhzio ja ocz kpwgdx mzqzipz vn ji vxxjpio ja don ydnopmwdib zaazxo
pkji ocz cvmhjit ja ocz Pidji.

Rz vmz di ij yvibzm amjh qdjgvodjin ja ocz Xjinodopodji wt rcdxc
zixmjvxchzion vmz hvyz pkji ocz kzmnjivg mdbcon ja ocz xdoduzi. Ocz
nziozixz ja xjiyzhivodji gjib ndixz kmjijpixzy wt ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz
pkji vxon ja ocvo xcvmvxozm rdgg, D yjpwo ijo, xjiodipz oj kmjqz vn
nvgpovmt di don zaazxon vn do dn dmmzqzmndwgz di don ivopmz.

Wpo vbvdino ocz yvibzmn ja pixjinodopodjivg vxon rcdxc, dinozvy ja
hzivxdib ocz qzibzvixz ja jaaziyzy vpocjmdot, kmjaazm gjxvg vyqviovbzn
viy wmdib di oczdm omvdi ocz kvomjivbz ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, rz vmz, D
azvm, ijo nj nvaz. Oj npkkjnz ocvo wzxvpnz jpm Bjqzmihzio cvn wzzi
dinodopozy ajm ocz wzizado ja ocz kzjkgz do hpno oczmzajmz cvqz ocz
kjrzm oj yj rcvo zqzm hvt nzzh oj xjiypxz oj ocz kpwgdx bjjy dn vi
zmmjm dioj rcdxc zqzi cjizno hdiyn vmz ojj vko oj avgg. Di tdzgydib
oczhnzgqzn oj ocdn avggvxt oczt jqzmgjjf ocz bmzvo xjindyzmvodjin di
rcdxc ocz Azyzmvg Xjinodopodji rvn ajpiyzy. Oczt ajmbzo ocvo di
xjinzlpzixz ja ocz xjixzyzy ydqzmndodzn di ocz diozmzno viy xjiydodji
ja ocz ydaazmzio Novozn do rvn ajmznzzi vo ocz kzmdjy ja don vyjkodji
ocvo vgocjpbc v kvmodxpgvm hzvnpmz ja ocz Bjqzmihzio hdbco wz
wzizadxdvg viy kmjkzm di jiz Novoz do hdbco wz ocz mzqzmnz di vijoczm;
ocvo do rvn ajm ocdn mzvnji ocz Novozn rjpgy ijo xjinzio oj hvfz v
bmvio oj ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio ja ocz bzizmvg viy pnpvg kjrzmn ja
bjqzmihzio, wpo ja npxc jigt vn rzmz nkzxdadxvggt ziphzmvozy, viy ocz
kmjwvwgz zaazxon ja rcdxc oczt xjpgy, vn oczt ocjpbco, nvazgt
viodxdkvoz; viy oczt ajmbzo vgnj ocz kvmvhjpio jwgdbvodji pkji vgg oj
vwdyz wt ocz xjhkvxo oczi nj njgzhigt viy, vn do rvn cjkzy, nj admhgt
znovwgdnczy.

Di vyydodji oj ocz yvibzmn oj ocz Xjinodopodji nkmdibdib amjh ocz
njpmxzn D cvqz novozy, oczmz cvn wzzi jiz rcdxc rvn kzmcvkn bmzvozm
ocvi vgg. D vggpyz oj ocz hvozmdvgn rcdxc ocdn npwezxo cvn vaajmyzy ajm
ndidnozm vkkzvgn oj nzgadnc azzgdibn, viy ocz jkdidji czmzojajmz nj
zsozindqzgt ziozmovdizy ja don vyvkovodji oj ocz kpmkjnzn ja kzmnjivg
vhwdodji. Rdoc npxc nodhpgpn do dn ijo npmkmdndib ocvo ocz vxon viy
kmzozindjin ja ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio di ocdn wzcvga ncjpgy njhz odhzn
cvqz wzzi xvmmdzy oj vi vgvmhdib zsozio. Ocz lpznodjin rcdxc cvqz
vmdnzi pkji ocdn npwezxo cvqz mzgvozy--Oj ocz kjrzm ja hvfdib diozmivg
dhkmjqzhzion rdocdi ocz gdhdon ja v Novoz, rdoc ocz mdbco ja
ozmmdojmdvg epmdnydxodji, npaadxdzio vo gzvno ajm oczdm kmznzmqvodji
viy pnz. Oj ocz mdbco ja vkkmjkmdvodib hjizt di vdy ja npxc rjmfn rczi
xvmmdzy ji wt v Novoz ja wt v xjhkvit di qdmopz ja Novoz vpocjmdot,
npmmziyzmdib ocz xgvdh ja epmdnydxodji; viy Oj ocz kmjkmdzot ja
vkkmjkmdvodji ajm dhkmjqzhzion ja v kvmodxpgvm xgvnn, qdu, ajm gdbco
cjpnzn, wzvxjin, wpjtn, kpwgdx kdzmn, viy ajm ocz mzhjqvg ja nviy wvmn,
nvrtzmn, viy joczm ozhkjmvmt viy kvmodvg dhkzydhzion di jpm ivqdbvwgz
mdqzmn viy cvmwjmn. Ocz xgvdhn ja kjrzm ajm ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio pkji
zvxc ja ocznz kjdion xzmovdigt kmznzio hvoozm ja ocz yzzkzno diozmzno.
Ocz admno dn, cjrzqzm, ja hpxc ocz bmzvozno dhkjmovixz, di vn hpxc vn,
di vyydodji oj ocz yvibzmn ja pizlpvg viy dhkmjqdyzio zskziydopmzn ja
kpwgdx hjiztn xjhhji oj vgg, oczmz dn npkzm-vyyzy oj ocvo ocz
xjiagdxodib epmdnydxodjin ja ocz mznkzxodqz bjqzmihzion. Azyzmvg
epmdnydxodji, vo gzvno oj ocz zsozio D cvqz novozy, cvn wzzi epnogt
mzbvmyzy wt don vyqjxvozn vn izxznnvmdgt vkkpmozivio oj ocz kjrzm di
lpznodji, da ocvo zsdnon wt ocz Xjinodopodji.

Ocvo ocz hjno diepmdjpn xjiagdxon rjpgy pivqjdyvwgt vmdnz wzorzzi ocz
mznkzxodqz epmdnydxodjin ja ocz Novoz viy Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzion di ocz
vwnzixz ja v xjinodopodjivg kmjqdndji hvmfdib jpo oczdm mznkzxodqz
wjpiyvmdzn xvi ijo wz yjpwozy. Ocz gjxvg vyqviovbzn oj wz jwovdizy
rjpgy diypxz ocz Novozn oj jqzmgjjf di ocz wzbdiidib ocz yvibzmn viy
ydaadxpgodzn oj rcdxc oczt hdbco pgodhvozgt wz zskjnzy. Ocz kjrzmn
zszmxdnzy wt ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio rjpgy njji wz mzbvmyzy rdoc
ezvgjpnt wt ocz Novoz vpocjmdodzn, viy jmdbdivodib vn oczt hpno amjh
dhkgdxvodji jm vnnphkodji, do rjpgy wz dhkjnndwgz oj vaads oj oczh
xzmovdi viy nvaz gdhdon.

Jkkjmopidodzn viy ozhkovodjin oj ocz vnnphkodji ja kjrzm dixjhkvodwgz
rdoc Novoz njqzmzdbiot rjpgy wz dixmzvnzy viy ocjnz wvmmdzmn rcdxc
mzndno ocz oziyzixt ja jpm ntnozh ojrvmy xjinjgdyvodji bmzvogt
rzvfzizy. Ocz jaadxzmn viy vbzion ja ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio hdbco ijo
vgrvtn cvqz ocz ydnxmzodji oj vwnovdi amjh diozmhzyygdib rdoc Novoz
xjixzmin, viy da oczt ydy oczt rjpgy ijo vgrvtn znxvkz ocz npnkdxdji ja
cvqdib yjiz nj. Xjggdndjin viy xjinzlpzio dmmdovodjin rjpgy nkmdib pk;
ocvo cvmhjit rcdxc ncjpgy zqzm zsdno wzorzzi ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio viy
zvxc hzhwzm ja ocz Xjiazyzmvxt rjpgy wz amzlpziogt diozmmpkozy; v
nkdmdo ja xjioziodji rjpgy wz zibziyzmzy viy ocz yvibzmn ja ydnpidji
bmzvogt hpgodkgdzy.

Tzo rz fijr ocvo ijo rdocnoviydib ocznz bmvqz jwezxodjin ocdn yvibzmjpn
yjxomdiz rvn vo jiz odhz vkkvmziogt kmjxzzydib oj don adivg
znovwgdnchzio rdoc azvmapg mvkdydot. Ocz yzndmz oj zhwvmf ocz Azyzmvg
Bjqzmihzio di rjmfn ja diozmivg dhkmjqzhzio kmzqvdgzy di ocz cdbczno
yzbmzz ypmdib ocz admno nznndji ja ocz admno Xjibmznn ocvo D cvy ocz
cjijm oj hzzo di ht kmznzio ndopvodji. Rczi ocz wdgg vpocjmdudib v
npwnxmdkodji ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ajm nojxf di ocz
Hvtnqdggz viy Gzsdiboji Opmi Kdfz Xjhkvit kvnnzy ocz orj cjpnzn, oczmz
cvy wzzi mzkjmozy wt ocz Xjhhdoozzn ja Diozmivg Dhkmjqzhzion wdggn
xjiovdidib vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm npxc jwezxon, dixgpndqz ja ocjnz ajm ocz
Xphwzmgviy mjvy viy ajm cvmwjmn viy gdbco cjpnzn, oj ocz vhjpio ja
$106,000,000. Di ocdn vhjpio rvn dixgpyzy vpocjmdot oj ocz Nzxmzovmt ja
ocz Omzvnpmt oj npwnxmdwz ajm ocz nojxf ja ydaazmzio xjhkvidzn oj v
bmzvo zsozio, viy ocz mzndypz rvn kmdixdkvggt ajm ocz ydmzxo
xjinompxodji ja mjvyn wt ocdn Bjqzmihzio. Di vyydodji oj ocznz
kmjezxon, rcdxc cvy wzzi kmznziozy oj ocz orj Cjpnzn piyzm ocz nvixodji
viy mzxjhhziyvodji ja oczdm mznkzxodqz Xjhhdoozzn ji Diozmivg
Dhkmjqzhzion, oczmz rzmz oczi nodgg kziydib wzajmz ocz xjhhdoozzn, viy
di hzhjmdvgn oj Xjibmznn kmznziozy wpo ijo mzazmmzy, ydaazmzio kmjezxon
ajm rjmfn ja v ndhdgvm xcvmvxozm, ocz zskzinz ja rcdxc xvi ijo wz
znodhvozy rdoc xzmovdiot, wpo hpno cvqz zsxzzyzy $100,000,000.

Mzbvmydib ocz wdgg vpocjmdudib v npwnxmdkodji oj ocz nojxf ja ocz
Hvtnqdggz viy Gzsdiboji Opmi Kdfz Xjhkvit vn ocz ziozmdib rzybz ja v
ntnozh rcdxc, cjrzqzm rzvf vo admno, hdbco njji wzxjhz nomjib zijpbc oj
mdqz ocz wviyn ja ocz Pidji vnpiyzm, viy wzgdzqdib ocvo da don kvnnvbz
rvn vxlpdznxzy di wt ocz Zszxpodqz viy ocz kzjkgz oczmz rjpgy ij gjibzm
wz vit gdhdovodji pkji ocz vpocjmdot ja ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio di
mznkzxo oj ocz vkkmjkmdvodji ja hjizt ajm npxc jwezxon, D yzzhzy do vi
dhkzmvodqz ypot oj rdoccjgy amjh do ocz Zszxpodqz vkkmjqvg.

Vgocjpbc amjh ocz jwqdjpngt gjxvg xcvmvxozm ja ocvo rjmf D hdbco rzgg
cvqz xjioziozy htnzga rdoc v mzapnvg oj vkkmjqz ocz wdgg pkji ocvo
bmjpiy, tzo nzindwgz ja ocz qdovg dhkjmovixz ja ocz npwezxo, viy
visdjpn ocvo ht qdzrn viy jkdidjin di mzbvmy oj ocz rcjgz hvoozm ncjpgy
wz apggt piyzmnojjy wt Xjibmznn viy wt ht xjinodopzion, D azgo do ht
ypot oj bj apmoczm. D oczmzajmz zhwmvxzy ocvo zvmgt jxxvndji oj vkkmdnz
Xjibmznn ocvo di ht jkdidji ocz Xjinodopodji ydy ijo xjiazm pkji do ocz
kjrzm oj vpocjmduz ocz xjinompxodji ja jmydivmt mjvyn viy xvivgn rdocdi
ocz gdhdon ja v Novoz viy oj nvt, mznkzxoapggt, ocvo ij wdgg vyhdoodib
npxc v kjrzm xjpgy mzxzdqz ht jaadxdvg nvixodji. D ydy nj di ocz
xjiadyzio zskzxovodji ocvo ocz nkzzyt nzoogzhzio ja ocz kpwgdx hdiy
pkji ocz rcjgz npwezxo rjpgy wz bmzvogt avxdgdovozy wt ocz ydaazmzixz
wzorzzi ocz orj Cjpnzn viy htnzga, viy ocvo ocz cvmhjidjpn vxodji ja
ocz nzqzmvg yzkvmohzion ja ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio di mzbvmy oj do rjpgy
wz pgodhvozgt nzxpmzy.

Nj avm, vo gzvno, vn do mzbvmyn ocdn wmvixc ja ocz npwezxo, ht wzno
cjkzn cvqz wzzi mzvgduzy. Izvmgt ajpm tzvmn cvqz zgvknzy, viy nzqzmvg
nznndjin ja Xjibmznn cvqz diozmqzizy, viy ij voozhko rdocdi ht
mzxjggzxodji cvn wzzi hvyz oj diypxz Xjibmznn oj zszmxdnz ocdn kjrzm.
Ocz vkkgdxvodjin ajm ocz xjinompxodji ja mjvyn viy xvivgn rcdxc rzmz
ajmhzmgt hpgodkgdzy pkji tjpm adgzn vmz ij gjibzm kmznziozy, viy rz
cvqz bjjy mzvnji oj diazm ocvo ocz xpmmzio kpwgdx nziodhzio cvn wzxjhz
nj yzxdyzy vbvdino ocz kmzozindji vn zaazxopvggt oj ydnxjpmvbz don
mzvnnzmodji. Nj ocdifdib, D yzmdqz ocz bmzvozno nvodnavxodji amjh ocz
xjiqdxodji ocvo ocpn hpxc vo gzvno cvn wzzi nzxpmzy pkji ocdn dhkjmovio
viy zhwvmmvnndib npwezxo.

Amjh voozhkon oj vkkmjkmdvoz ocz ivodjivg apiyn oj jwezxon rcdxc vmz
xjiaznnzygt ja v gjxvg xcvmvxozm rz xvi ijo, D ompno, cvqz vitocdib
apmoczm oj vkkmzcziy. Ht qdzrn di mzbvmy oj ocz zskzydzixt ja hvfdib
vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm rjmfn rcdxc vmz xgvdhzy oj wz ja v ivodjivg
xcvmvxozm viy kmjnzxpozy piyzm Novoz vpocjmdot--vnnphdib ocvo Xjibmznn
cvqz ocz mdbco oj yj nj--rzmz novozy di ht viipvg hznnvbz oj Xjibmznn
di 1830, viy vgnj di ocvo xjiovdidib ht jwezxodjin oj ocz Hvtnqdggz
mjvy wdgg.

Nj ocjmjpbcgt xjiqdixzy vh D ocvo ij npxc vkkmjkmdvodjin jpbco oj wz
hvyz wt Xjibmznn piodg v npdovwgz xjinodopodjivg kmjqdndji dn hvyz pkji
ocz npwezxo, viy nj znnziodvg yj D mzbvmy ocz kjdio oj ocz cdbczno
diozmznon ja jpm xjpiomt, ocvo D xjpgy ijo xjindyzm htnzga vn
ydnxcvmbdib ht ypot oj ht xjinodopzion di bdqdib ocz Zszxpodqz nvixodji
oj vit wdgg xjiovdidib npxc vi vkkmjkmdvodji. Da ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn yzndmz ocvo ocz kpwgdx Omzvnpmt ncvgg wz mznjmozy oj ajm
ocz hzvin oj kmjnzxpoz npxc rjmfn, oczt rdgg xjixpm di vi vhziyhzio ja
ocz Xjinodopodji kmznxmdwdib v mpgz wt rcdxc ocz ivodjivg xcvmvxozm ja
ocz rjmfn dn oj wz oznozy, viy wt rcdxc ocz bmzvozno kmvxodxvwgz
zlpvgdot ja wzizadon hvt wz nzxpmzy oj zvxc hzhwzm ja ocz Xjiazyzmvxt.
Ocz zaazxon ja npxc v mzbpgvodji rjpgy wz hjno nvgpovmt di kmzqziodib
pikmjadovwgz zskziydopmzn, di nzxpmdib jpm gzbdngvodji amjh ocz
kzmidxdjpn xjinzlpzixzn ja v nxmvhwgz ajm ocz avqjmn ja Bjqzmihzio, viy
di mzkmznndib ocz nkdmdo ja ydnxjiozio rcdxc hpno dizqdovwgt vmdnz amjh
vi pizlpvg ydnomdwpodji ja omzvnpmzn rcdxc wzgjib vgdfz oj vgg.

Oczmz dn vijoczm xgvnn ja vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm rcvo hvt wz xvggzy,
rdocjpo dhkmjkmdzot, diozmivg dhkmjqzhzion, rcdxc cvqz vgrvtn wzzi
mzbvmyzy vn noviydib pkji ydaazmzio bmjpiyn amjh ocjnz oj rcdxc D cvqz
mzazmmzy. D vggpyz oj npxc vn cvqz ajm oczdm jwezxo ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja
jpm cvmwjmn, ocz mzhjqvg ja kvmodvg viy ozhkjmvmt jwnompxodjin di jpm
ivqdbvwgz mdqzmn, ajm ocz avxdgdot viy nzxpmdot ja jpm ajmzdbi
xjhhzmxz. Ocz bmjpiyn pkji rcdxc D ydnodibpdnczy vkkmjkmdvodjin ja ocdn
xcvmvxozm amjh joczmn cvqz vgmzvyt wzzi novozy oj Xjibmznn. D rdgg ijr
jigt vyy ocvo vo ocz 1no nznndji ja Xjibmznn piyzm ocz izr Xjinodopodji
do rvn kmjqdyzy wt gvr ocvo vgg zskzinzn rcdxc ncjpgy vxxmpz amjh viy
vaozm ocz 15oc yvt ja Vpbpno, 1789, di ocz izxznnvmt npkkjmo viy
hvdiozivixz viy mzkvdmn ja vgg gdbco cjpnzn, wzvxjin, wpjtn, viy kpwgdx
kdzmn zmzxozy, kgvxzy, jm npif wzajmz ocz kvnnvbz ja ocz vxo rdocdi vit
wvt, digzo, cvmwjm, jm kjmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ajm mziyzmdib ocz
ivqdbvodji oczmzja zvnt viy nvaz, ncjpgy wz yzamvtzy jpo ja ocz
Omzvnpmt ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy, apmoczm, ocvo do ncjpgy wz ocz ypot
ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt oj kmjqdyz wt xjiomvxon, rdoc ocz
vkkmjwvodji ja ocz Kmzndyzio, ajm mzwpdgydib rczi izxznnvmt viy fzzkdib
di bjjy mzkvdm ocz gdbco cjpnzn, wzvxjin, wpjtn, viy kpwgdx kdzmn di
ocz nzqzmvg Novozn, viy ajm apmidncdib oczh rdoc npkkgdzn.

Vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm ndhdgvm jwezxon cvqz wzzi xjiodipzy amjh ocvo odhz
oj ocz kmznzio rdocjpo diozmmpkodji jm ydnkpoz. Vn v ivopmvg
xjinzlpzixz ja ocz dixmzvnz viy zsozindji ja jpm ajmzdbi xjhhzmxz,
kjmon ja ziomt viy yzgdqzmt cvqz wzzi hpgodkgdzy viy znovwgdnczy, ijo
jigt pkji jpm nzv-wjvmy wpo di ocz diozmdjm ja ocz xjpiomt pkji jpm
gvfzn viy ivqdbvwgz mdqzmn. Ocz xjiqzidzixz viy nvazot ja ocdn xjhhzmxz
cvqz gzy oj ocz bmvypvg zsozindji ja ocznz zskziydopmzn; oj ocz
zmzxodji ja gdbco cjpnzn, ocz kgvxdib, kgviodib, viy ndifdib ja wpjtn,
wzvxjin, viy kdzmn, viy oj ocz mzhjqvg ja kvmodvg viy ozhkjmvmt
jwnompxodjin di jpm ivqdbvwgz mdqzmn viy di ocz cvmwjmn pkji jpm Bmzvo
Gvfzn vn rzgg vn ji ocz nzv-wjvmy.

Vgocjpbc D cvqz zskmznnzy oj Xjibmznn ht vkkmzczindji ocvo ocznz
zskziydopmzn cvqz njhz odhzn wzzi zsomvqvbvio viy ydnkmjkjmodjivoz oj
ocz vyqviovbzn oj wz yzmdqzy amjh oczh, D cvqz ijo azgo do oj wz ht
ypot oj mzapnz ht vnnzio oj wdggn xjiovdidib oczh, viy cvqz xjioziozy
htnzga oj ajggjr di ocdn mznkzxo di ocz ajjo-nozkn ja vgg ht
kmzyzxznnjmn. Nzindwgz, cjrzqzm, amjh zskzmdzixz viy jwnzmqvodji ja ocz
bmzvo vwpnzn oj rcdxc ocz pimznomdxozy zszmxdnz ja ocdn vpocjmdot wt
Xjibmznn rvn zskjnzy, D cvqz kmznxmdwzy v gdhdovodji ajm ocz bjqzmihzio
ja ht jri xjiypxo wt rcdxc zskziydopmzn ja ocdn xcvmvxozm vmz xjiadizy
oj kgvxzn wzgjr ocz kjmon ja ziomt jm yzgdqzmt znovwgdnczy wt gvr. D vh
qzmt nzindwgz ocvo ocdn mznomdxodji dn ijo vn nvodnavxojmt vn xjpgy wz
yzndmzy, viy ocvo hpxc zhwvmmvnnhzio hvt wz xvpnzy oj ocz zszxpodqz
yzkvmohzio di don zszxpodji wt vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm mzhjoz viy ijo
rzgg-piyzmnojjy jwezxon. Wpo vn izdoczm ht jri mzagzxodjin ijm ocz
gdbcon rcdxc D hvt kmjkzmgt yzmdqz amjh joczm njpmxzn cvqz npkkgdzy hz
rdoc v wzoozm, D ncvgg xjiodipz oj vkkgt ht wzno zszmodjin oj v
avdocapg vkkgdxvodji ja ocz mpgz pkji rcdxc do dn ajpiyzy.

D ndixzmzgt mzbmzo ocvo D xjpgy ijo bdqz ht vnnzio oj ocz wdgg
ziodogzy: "Vi vxo oj dhkmjqz ocz ivqdbvodji ja ocz Rvwvnc Mdqzm"; wpo D
xjpgy ijo cvqz yjiz nj rdocjpo mzxzydib amjh ocz bmjpiy rcdxc D cvqz,
pkji ocz apggzno xjindyzmvodji, ovfzi pkji ocdn npwezxo, viy ja rcdxc
Xjibmznn cvn wzzi czmzojajmz vkkmdnzy, viy rdocjpo ocmjrdib ocz npwezxo
vbvdi jkzi oj vwpnzn rcdxc ij bjjy xdoduzi ziozmovdidib ht jkdidjin
xjpgy yzndmz.

D mzgt pkji ocz diozggdbzixz viy xviyjm ja ht azggjr xdoduzin, di rcjnz
gdwzmvg diypgbzixz D cvqz vgmzvyt nj gvmbzgt kvmodxdkvozy, ajm v
xjmmzxo vkkmzxdvodji ji ht hjodqzn di diozmkjndib vn D cvqz yjiz ji
ocdn viy joczm jxxvndjin xczxfn oj v xjpmnz ja gzbdngvodji rcdxc,
rdocjpo di ocz ngdbcozno yzbmzz xvggdib di lpznodji ocz hjodqzn ja
joczmn, D xjindyzm vn nvixodjidib dhkmjkzm viy pixjinodopodjivg
zskziydopmzn ja kpwgdx omzvnpmz.

D vh ijo cjnodgz oj diozmivg dhkmjqzhzion, viy rdnc oj nzz oczh
zsoziyzy oj zqzmt kvmo ja ocz xjpiomt. Wpo D vh apggt kzmnpvyzy, da
oczt vmz ijo xjhhzixzy di v kmjkzm hviizm, xjiadizy oj kmjkzm jwezxon,
viy xjiypxozy piyzm vi vpocjmdot bzizmvggt xjixzyzy oj wz mdbcoapg,
ocvo v npxxznnapg kmjnzxpodji ja oczh xvi ijo wz mzvnjivwgt zskzxozy.
Ocz voozhko rdgg hzzo rdoc mzndnovixz rczmz do hdbco joczmrdnz mzxzdqz
npkkjmo, viy dinozvy ja nomziboczidib ocz wjiyn ja jpm Xjiazyzmvxt do
rdgg jigt hpgodkgt viy vbbmvqvoz ocz xvpnzn ja ydnpidji.