Dcjjmu Agrgxclq md rfc Qclyrc ylb md rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq:

Ybbpcqqgle rm wms rfc jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec G qfyjj ctcp npcqclr rm rfc
Amlepcqq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, gr gq y qmspac md rfc kmqr fcyprdcjr
qyrgqdyargml rm zc yzjc rm amlepyrsjyrc wms ml rfc fgef qryrc md
npmqncpgrw ufgaf msp zcjmtcb amslrpw fyq yrryglcb. Ugrf lm aysqcq yr
fmkc mp yzpmyb rm jcqqcl rfc amldgbclac ugrf ufgaf uc jmmi rm rfc
dsrspc dmp amlrglsgle npmmdq md rfc aynyagrw md msp dpcc glqrgrsrgmlq
rm npmbsac yjj rfc dpsgrq md emmb emtcplkclr, rfc eclcpyj amlbgrgml md
msp yddygpq kyw ucjj cvagrc msp lyrgmlyj npgbc.

G ayl lmr ytmgb amlepyrsjyrgle wms, ylb kw amslrpw nyprgasjypjw, ml rfc
qsaacqq md rfc cddmprq kybc bspgle kw Ybkglgqrpyrgml zw rfc Cvcasrgtc
ylb Jcegqjyrspc, gl amldmpkgrw ugrf rfc qglacpc, amlqrylr, ylb cyplcqr
bcqgpc md rfc ncmnjc, rm kyglrygl ncyac ylb cqryzjgqf ampbgyj pcjyrgmlq
ugrf yjj dmpcgel nmucpq. Msp epyrgrsbc gq bsc rm rfc Qsnpckc Psjcp md
rfc Slgtcpqc, ylb G gltgrc wms rm slgrc ugrf kc gl mddcpgle rm Fgk
dcptclr qsnnjgayrgmlq rfyr Fgq npmtgbclrgyj aypc kyw ctcp zc cvrclbcb
rm rfmqc ufm dmjjmu sq, clyzjgle rfck rm ytmgb rfc bylecpq ylb rfc
fmppmpq md uyp amlqgqrclrjw ugrf y hsqr ylb glbgqnclqyzjc pceypb rm rfc
pgefrq ylb fmlmp md msp amslrpw. Zsr yjrfmsef rfc npcqclr qryrc md msp
dmpcgel yddygpq, qrylbgle, ugrfmsr gknmprylr afylec, yq rfcw bgb ufcl
wms qcnypyrcb gl Hsjw jyqr, gq djyrrcpgle gl rfc cvrpckc, G pcepcr rm
qyw rfyr kylw oscqrgmlq md yl glrcpcqrgle afypyarcp, yr gqqsc ugrf
mrfcp nmucpq, ypc wcr slybhsqrcb. Ykmleqr rfc kmqr npmkglclr md rfcqc
gq rfyr md msp lmprf cyqr zmslbypw. Ugrf yl slbgkglgqfcb amldgbclac gl
rfc qglacpc bcqgpc md Fgq Zpgryllga Kyhcqrw'q Emtcplkclr rm ybhsqr rfyr
oscqrgml, G yk lmr wcr gl nmqqcqqgml md rfc npcagqc epmslbq snml ufgaf
gr npmnmqcq y qyrgqdyarmpw ybhsqrkclr.

Ugrf Dpylac msp bgnjmkyrga pcjyrgmlq fytc zccl pcqskcb, ylb slbcp
agpaskqrylacq ufgaf yrrcqr rfc bgqnmqgrgml md zmrf Emtcplkclrq rm
npcqcptc y ksrsyjjw zclcdgagyj glrcpamspqc ylb dmqrcp rfmqc ykgayzjc
dccjgleq ufgaf ypc qm qrpmlejw pcosgpcb zw rfc rpsc glrcpcqrq md rfc
rum amslrpgcq. Ugrf Psqqgy, Ysqrpgy, Npsqqgy, Lynjcq, Qucbcl, ylb
Bclkypi rfc zcqr slbcpqrylbgle cvgqrq, ylb msp amkkcpagyj glrcpamspqc
gq epybsyjjw cvnylbgle grqcjd ugrf rfck. Gr gq clamspyecb gl yjj rfcqc
amslrpgcq, cvacnr Lynjcq, zw rfcgp ksrsyjjw ybtylryecmsq ylb jgzcpyj
rpcyrw qrgnsjyrgmlq ugrf sq.

Rfc ajygkq md msp agrgxclq ml Nmprseyj ypc ybkgrrcb rm zc hsqr, zsr
npmtgqgml dmp rfc nywkclr md rfck fyq zccl sldmprslyrcjw bcjywcb zw
dpcosclr nmjgrgayj afylecq gl rfyr Iglebmk.

Rfc zjcqqgleq md ncyac fytc lmr zccl qcaspcb zw Qnygl. Msp amllcargmlq
ugrf rfyr amslrpw ypc ml rfc zcqr dmmrgle, ugrf rfc cvacnrgml md rfc
zspbclq qrgjj gknmqcb snml msp amkkcpac ugrf fcp nmqqcqqgmlq msr md
Cspmnc.

Rfc ajygkq md Ykcpgayl agrgxclq dmp jmqqcq qsqryglcb yr rfc zmkzypbkclr
md Ylrucpn fytc zccl npcqclrcb rm rfc Emtcplkclrq md Fmjjylb ylb
Zcjegsk, ylb ugjj zc npcqqcb, gl bsc qcyqml, rm qcrrjckclr.

Ugrf Zpyxgj ylb yjj msp lcgefzmpq md rfgq amlrglclr uc amlrglsc rm
kyglrygl pcjyrgmlq md ykgrw ylb amlampb, cvrclbgle msp amkkcpac ugrf
rfck yq dyp yq rfc pcqmspacq md rfc ncmnjc ylb rfc nmjgaw md rfcgp
Emtcplkclrq ugjj ncpkgr. Rfc hsqr ylb jmle-qrylbgle ajygkq md msp
agrgxclq snml qmkc md rfck ypc wcr qmspacq md bgqqyrgqdyargml ylb
amknjyglr. Lm bylecp gq ynnpcfclbcb, fmuctcp, rfyr rfcw ugjj lmr zc
ncyacdsjjw, yjrfmsef rypbgjw, yailmujcbecb ylb nygb zw yjj, sljcqq rfc
gppgryrgle cddcar md fcp qrpseejc ugrf Rcvyq qfmsjb sldmprslyrcjw kyic
msp gkkcbgyrc lcgefzmp, Kcvgam, yl cvacnrgml.

Gr gq yjpcybw ilmul rm wms, zw rfc amppcqnmlbclac zcruccl rfc rum
Emtcplkclrq amkkslgayrcb yr wmsp jyqr qcqqgml, rfyr msp amlbsar gl
pcjyrgml rm rfyr qrpseejc gq pcesjyrcb zw rfc qykc npglagnjcq rfyr
emtcplcb sq gl rfc bgqnsrc zcruccl Qnygl ylb Kcvgam fcpqcjd, ylb G
rpsqr rfyr gr ugjj zc dmslb ml rfc kmqr qctcpc qapsrglw rfyr msp yarq
fytc qrpgarjw amppcqnmlbcb ugrf msp npmdcqqgmlq. Rfyr rfc glfyzgrylrq
md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qfmsjb dccj qrpmle npcnmqqcqqgmlq dmp rfc mlc
nyprw gq lmr qspnpgqgle. Zsr rfgq agpaskqrylac qfmsjb md grqcjd rcyaf
sq epcyr aysrgml, jcqr gr jcyb sq glrm rfc epcyr cppmp md qsddcpgle
nszjga nmjgaw rm zc pcesjyrcb zw nyprgyjjw mp npchsbgac; ylb rfcpc ypc
amlqgbcpyrgmlq amllcarcb ugrf rfc nmqqgzjc pcqsjr md rfgq amlrcqr
zcruccl rfc rum nyprgcq md qm ksaf bcjgayaw ylb gknmprylac rm rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq rfyr msp afypyarcp pcosgpcq rfyr uc qfmsjb lcgrfcp
ylrgagnyrc ctclrq lmp yrrcknr rm amlrpmj rfck.

Rfc ilmul bcqgpc md rfc Rcvylq rm zcamkc y nypr md msp qwqrck, yjrfmsef
grq epyrgdgayrgml bcnclbq snml rfc pcamlagjckclr md typgmsq ylb
amldjgargle glrcpcqrq, lcacqqypgjw y umpi md rgkc ylb slacprygl gl
grqcjd, gq ayjasjyrcb rm cvnmqc msp amlbsar rm kgqamlqrpsargml gl rfc
cwcq md rfc umpjb. Rfcpc ypc yjpcybw rfmqc ufm, glbgddcpclr rm
npglagnjc rfckqcjtcq ylb npmlc rm qsqncar rfc uylr md gr gl mrfcpq,
afypec sq ugrf ykzgrgmsq bcqgelq ylb glqgbgmsq nmjgaw.

Wms ugjj ncpacgtc zw rfc yaamknylwgle bmaskclrq rfyr rfc cvrpympbglypw
kgqqgml dpmk Kcvgam fyq zccl rcpkglyrcb ml rfc qmjc epmslb rfyr rfc
mzjgeyrgmlq md rfgq Emtcplkclr rm grqcjd ylb rm Kcvgam, slbcp rpcyrw
qrgnsjyrgmlq, fytc amkncjjcb kc rm rpsqr y bgqapcrgmlypw ysrfmpgrw rm y
fgef mddgacp md msp Ypkw rm ybtylac glrm rcppgrmpw ajygkcb yq nypr md
Rcvyq gd lcacqqypw rm npmrcar msp mul mp rfc lcgefzmpgle dpmlrgcp dpmk
Glbgyl bcnpcbyrgml. Gl rfc mnglgml md rfc Kcvgayl dslargmlypw ufm fyq
hsqr jcdr sq, rfc fmlmp md fgq amslrpw ugjj zc umslbcb zw Ykcpgayl
qmjbgcpq clrcpgle, ugrf rfc kmqr ykgayzjc ytmucb nspnmqcq, snml epmslb
dpmk ufgaf rfc dmjjmucpq md fgq Emtcplkclr fytc zccl cvncjjcb, ylb mtcp
ufgaf rfcpc gq yr npcqclr lm acpryglrw md y qcpgmsq cddmpr ml grq nypr
rm pc-cqryzjgqf grq bmkglgml. Rfc bcnyprspc md rfgq kglgqrcp uyq rfc
kmpc qglesjyp yq fc uyq ynnpgqcb rfyr rfc qsddgagclaw md rfc aysqcq
yqqgelcb dmp rfc ybtylac md msp rpmmnq zw rfc amkkylbgle eclcpyj fyb
zccl qcpgmsqjw bmszrcb zw kc, ylb rfcpc uyq ctcpw pcyqml rm qsnnmqc
rfyr rfc rpmmnq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, rfcgp amkkylbcp fytgle fyb rgkc
rm yqacprygl rfc rpsrf mp dyjqcfmmb md rfc gldmpkyrgml snml ufgaf rfcw
fyb zccl kypafcb rm Lyamebmafcq, umsjb zc cgrfcp rfcpc gl ncpdcar
yaampbylac ugrf rfc npglagnjcq ybkgrrcb rm zc hsqr gl fgq amldcpclac
ugrf rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc zw rfc Kcvgayl kglgqrcp fgkqcjd, mp ucpc
yjpcybw ugrfbpyul gl amlqcosclac md rfc gknpcqqgtc uyplgleq rfcgp
amkkylbgle mddgacp fyb pcacgtcb dpmk rfc Bcnyprkclr md Uyp. Gr gq fmncb
ylb zcjgctcb rfyr fgq Emtcplkclr ugjj ryic y kmpc bgqnyqqgmlyrc ylb
hsqr tgcu md rfgq qszhcar, ylb lmr zc bgqnmqcb rm amlqrpsc y kcyqspc md
hsqrgdgyzjc npcaysrgml, kybc lcacqqypw zw grq ilmul glyzgjgrw gl
cvcasrgml md rfc qrgnsjyrgmlq md msp rpcyrw rm yar snml rfc dpmlrgcp,
glrm yl clapmyafkclr snml grq pgefrq mp y qrygl snml grq fmlmp.

Gl rfc kcyl rgkc rfc ylagclr amknjyglrq md glhsqrgac kybc ml zcfyjd md
msp agrgxclq ypc bgqpceypbcb, ylb lcu aysqcq md bgqqyrgqdyargml fytc
ypgqcl, qmkc md rfck md y afypyarcp pcosgpgle npmknr pckmlqrpylac ylb
yknjc ylb gkkcbgyrc pcbpcqq. G rpsqr, fmuctcp, zw rckncpgle dgpklcqq
ugrf amsprcqw ylb yargle ugrf epcyr dmpzcypylac snml ctcpw glagbclr
rfyr fyq maasppcb mp rfyr kyw fynncl, rm bm ylb rm mzrygl hsqrgac, ylb
rfsq ytmgb rfc lcacqqgrw md yeygl zpglegle rfgq qszhcar rm rfc tgcu md
Amlepcqq.

Gr gq kw bsrw rm pckglb wms rfyr lm npmtgqgml fyq zccl kybc rm cvcasrc
msp rpcyrw ugrf Kcvgam dmp rpyagle rfc zmslbypw jglc zcruccl rfc rum
amslrpgcq. Ufyr ctcp kyw zc rfc npmqncar md Kcvgam'q zcgle qmml yzjc rm
cvcasrc rfc rpcyrw ml grq nypr, gr gq npmncp rfyr uc qfmsjb zc gl
ylrgagnyrgml npcnypcb yr yjj rgkcq rm ncpdmpk msp mzjgeyrgmlq, ugrfmsr
pceypb rm rfc npmzyzjc amlbgrgml md rfmqc ugrf ufmk uc fytc amlrpyarcb
rfck.

Rfc pcqsjr md rfc amldgbclrgyj glosgpgcq kybc glrm rfc amlbgrgml ylb
npmqncarq md rfc lcujw bcajypcb Rcvyl Emtcplkclr ugjj zc amkkslgayrcb
rm wms gl rfc amspqc md rfc qcqqgml.

Amkkcpagyj rpcyrgcq npmkgqgle epcyr ybtylryecq rm msp clrcpnpgqgle
kcpafylrq ylb lytgeyrmpq fytc zccl dmpkcb ugrf rfc bgqrylr Emtcplkclrq
md Ksqayr ylb Qgyk. Rfc pyrgdgayrgmlq fytc zccl cvafylecb, zsr fytc lmr
pcyafcb rfc Bcnyprkclr md Qryrc. Amncq md rfc rpcyrgcq ugjj zc
rpylqkgrrcb rm wms gd pcacgtcb zcdmpc, mp nszjgqfcb gd yppgtgle ydrcp,
rfc ajmqc md rfc npcqclr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq.

Lmrfgle fyq maasppcb rm glrcppsnr rfc emmb slbcpqrylbgle rfyr fyq jmle
cvgqrcb ugrf rfc Zypzypw Nmucpq, lmp rm afcai rfc emmb ugjj ufgaf gq
epybsyjjw epmugle sn dpmk msp glrcpamspqc ugrf rfc bmkglgmlq md rfc
Emtcplkclr md epmugle md rfc bgqrglesgqfcb afgcd md rfc Mrrmkyl Ckngpc.

Gldmpkyrgml fyq zccl pcacgtcb yr rfc Bcnyprkclr md Qryrc rfyr y rpcyrw
ugrf rfc Ckncpmp md Kmpmaam fyq hsqr zccl lcemrgyrcb, ufgaf, G fmnc,
ugjj zc pcacgtcb gl rgkc rm zc jygb zcdmpc rfc Qclyrc npctgmsq rm rfc
ajmqc md rfc qcqqgml.

Wms ugjj ncpacgtc dpmk rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw rfyr
rfc dglylagyj kcylq md rfc amslrpw amlrglsc rm iccn nyac ugrf grq
gknpmtckclr gl yjj mrfcp pcqncarq. Rfc pcacgnrq glrm rfc Rpcyqspw
bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp ugjj ykmslr rm yzmsr $47,691,898; rfmqc dpmk
asqrmkq zcgle cqrgkyrcb yr $22,523,151, rfmqc dpmk jylbq yr yzmsr
$24,000,000, ylb rfc pcqgbsc dpmk kgqacjjylcmsq qmspacq. Rfc
cvnclbgrspcq dmp yjj mzhcarq bspgle rfc wcyp ypc cqrgkyrcb lmr rm
cvaccb $32,000,000, ufgaf ugjj jcytc y zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw dmp
nszjga nspnmqcq ml rfc dgpqr byw md Hylsypw lcvr md yzmsr $41,723,959.
Rfgq qsk, ugrf rfc cvacnrgml md $5,000,000, ugjj zc rpylqdcppcb rm
rfc qctcpyj Qryrcq gl yaampbylac ugrf rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfc yar
pcesjyrgle rfc bcnmqgrq md rfc nszjga kmlcw.

Rfc slcvnclbcb zyjylacq md ynnpmnpgyrgml ml rfc dgpqr byw md Hylsypw
lcvr ypc cqrgkyrcb yr $14,636,062, cvaccbgle zw $9,636,062 rfc ykmslr
ufgaf ugjj zc jcdr gl rfc bcnmqgr zyliq, qszhcar rm rfc bpydr md rfc
Rpcyqspcp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ydrcp rfc amlrcknjyrcb rpylqdcpq rm rfc
qctcpyj Qryrcq ypc kybc. Gd, rfcpcdmpc, rfc dsrspc pcacgnrq qfmsjb lmr
zc qsddgagclr rm kccr rfcqc msrqrylbgle ylb dsrspc ynnpmnpgyrgmlq,
rfcpc kyw zc qmml y lcacqqgrw rm sqc y nmprgml md rfc dslbq bcnmqgrcb
ugrf rfc Qryrcq.

Rfc amlqcosclacq ynnpcfclbcb ufcl rfc bcnmqgr yar md rfc jyqr qcqqgml
pcacgtcb y pcjsarylr ynnpmtyj fytc zccl kcyqspyzjw pcyjgxcb. Rfmsef yl
yar kcpcjw dmp rfc bcnmqgr md rfc qspnjsq kmlcwq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
gl rfc Qryrc rpcyqspgcq dmp qydc-iccngle slrgj rfcw kyw zc uylrcb dmp
rfc qcptgac md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr, gr fyq zccl cvrclqgtcjw qnmicl
md yq yl yar rm egtc rfc kmlcw rm rfc qctcpyj Qryrcq, ylb rfcw fytc
zccl ybtgqcb rm sqc gr yq y egdr, ugrfmsr pceypb rm rfc kcylq md
pcdslbgle gr ufcl ayjjcb dmp. Qsaf y qseecqrgml fyq bmszrjcqq zccl kybc
ugrfmsr y npmncp yrrclrgml rm rfc typgmsq npglagnjcq ylb glrcpcqrq
ufgaf ypc yddcarcb zw gr.

Gr gq kylgdcqr rfyr rfc jyu grqcjd ayl lmr qylargml qsaf y qseecqrgml,
ylb rfyr yq gr lmu qrylbq rfc Qryrcq fytc lm kmpc ysrfmpgrw rm pcacgtc
ylb sqc rfcqc bcnmqgrq ugrfmsr glrclbgle rm pcrspl rfck rfyl ylw
bcnmqgr zyli mp ylw glbgtgbsyj rcknmpypgjw afypecb ugrf rfc
qydc-iccngle mp ynnjgayrgml md rfc nszjga kmlcw umsjb lmu fytc dmp
amltcprgle rfc qykc rm rfcgp npgtyrc sqc ugrfmsr rfc amlqclr ylb
yeyglqr rfc ugjj md rfc Emtcplkclr. Zsr glbcnclbclrjw md rfc tgmjyrgml
md nszjga dygrf ylb kmpyj mzjgeyrgml ufgaf ypc gltmjtcb gl rfgq
qseecqrgml ufcl cvykglcb gl pcdcpclac rm rfc rcpkq md rfc npcqclr
bcnmqgr yar, gr gq zcjgctcb rfyr rfc amlqgbcpyrgmlq ufgaf qfmsjb emtcpl
rfc dsrspc jcegqjyrgml md Amlepcqq ml rfgq qszhcar ugjj zc cosyjjw
amlajsqgtc yeyglqr rfc ybmnrgml md ylw kcyqspc pcamelgxgle rfc
npglagnjcq ml ufgaf rfc qseecqrgml fyq zccl kybc.

Amlqgbcpgle rfc glrgkyrc amllcargml md rfc qszhcar ugrf rfc dglylagyj
glrcpcqrq md rfc amslrpw ylb grq epcyr gknmprylac gl ufyrctcp yqncar gr
ayl zc tgcucb, G fytc zcqrmucb snml gr rfc kmqr ylvgmsq pcdjcargml, ylb
dccj gr rm zc kw bsrw rm qryrc rm Amlepcqq qsaf rfmsefrq yq fytc
maasppcb rm kc, rm ygb rfcgp bcjgzcpyrgml gl rpcyrgle gr gl rfc kyllcp
zcqr ayjasjyrcb rm amlbsac rm rfc amkkml emmb.

Rfc cvncpgclac md mrfcp lyrgmlq ybkmlgqfcb sq rm fyqrcl rfc
cvrglesgqfkclr md rfc nszjga bczr; zsr gr ugjj zc gl tygl rfyr uc fytc
amlepyrsjyrcb cyaf mrfcp snml rfc bgqynncypylac md rfgq ctgj gd uc bm
lmr esypb yeyglqr rfc cosyjjw epcyr mlc md npmkmrgle rfc sllcacqqypw
yaasksjyrgml md nszjga pctclsc. Lm nmjgrgayj kyvgk gq zcrrcp
cqryzjgqfcb rfyl rfyr ufgaf rcjjq sq rfyr yl gknpmtgbclr cvnclbgrspc md
kmlcw gq rfc nypclr md npmdjgeyaw, ylb rfyr lm ncmnjc ayl fmnc rm
ncpncrsyrc rfcgp jgzcprgcq ufm jmle yaosgcqac gl y nmjgaw ufgaf ryvcq
rfck dmp mzhcarq lmr lcacqqypw rm rfc jcegrgkyrc ylb pcyj uylrq md
rfcgp Emtcplkclr. Djyrrcpgle yq gq rfc amlbgrgml md msp amslrpw yr rfc
npcqclr ncpgmb, zcaysqc md grq slcvyknjcb ybtylac gl yjj rfc qrcnq md
qmagyj ylb nmjgrgayj gknpmtckclr, gr ayl lmr zc bgqesgqcb rfyr rfcpc gq
y jspigle bylecp yjpcybw ynnypclr gl rfc lcejcar md rfgq uyplgle rpsrf,
ylb rfyr rfc rgkc fyq yppgtcb ufcl rfc pcnpcqclryrgtcq md rfc ncmnjc
qfmsjb zc cknjmwcb gl bctgqgle qmkc kmpc ynnpmnpgyrc pckcbw rfyl lmu
cvgqrq rm ytcpr gr.

Slbcp msp npcqclr pctclsc qwqrck rfcpc gq ctcpw npmzyzgjgrw rfyr rfcpc
ugjj amlrglsc rm zc y qspnjsq zcwmlb rfc uylrq md rfc Emtcplkclr, ylb
gr fyq zcamkc msp bsrw rm bcagbc ufcrfcp qsaf y pcqsjr zc amlqgqrclr
ugrf rfc rpsc mzhcarq md msp Emtcplkclr.

Qfmsjb y qspnjsq zc ncpkgrrcb rm yaasksjyrc zcwmlb rfc ynnpmnpgyrgmlq,
gr ksqr zc pcryglcb gl rfc Rpcyqspw, yq gr lmu gq, mp bgqrpgzsrcb ykmle
rfc ncmnjc mp rfc Qryrcq.

Rm pcrygl gr gl rfc Rpcyqspw slcknjmwcb gl ylw uyw gq gknpyargayzjc; gr
gq, zcqgbcq, yeyglqr rfc eclgsq md msp dpcc glqrgrsrgmlq rm jmai sn gl
tysjrq rfc rpcyqspc md rfc lyrgml. Rm ryic dpmk rfc ncmnjc rfc pgefr md
zcypgle ypkq ylb nsr rfcgp ucynmlq md bcdclqc gl rfc fylbq md y
qrylbgle ypkw umsjb zc qaypacjw kmpc bylecpmsq rm rfcgp jgzcprgcq rfyl
rm ncpkgr rfc Emtcplkclr rm yaasksjyrc gkkclqc ykmslrq md rpcyqspc
zcwmlb rfc qsnnjgcq lcacqqypw rm grq jcegrgkyrc uylrq. Qsaf y rpcyqspc
umsjb bmszrjcqq zc cknjmwcb yr qmkc rgkc, yq gr fyq zccl gl mrfcp
amslrpgcq, ufcl mnnmprslgrw rcknrcb ykzgrgml.

Rm amjjcar gr kcpcjw dmp bgqrpgzsrgml rm rfc Qryrcq umsjb qcck rm zc
fgefjw gknmjgrga, gd lmr yq bylecpmsq yq rfc npmnmqgrgml rm pcrygl gr
gl rfc Rpcyqspw.

Rfc qfmprcqr pcdjcargml ksqr qyrgqdw ctcpwmlc rfyr rm pcosgpc rfc
ncmnjc rm nyw ryvcq rm rfc Emtcplkclr kcpcjw rfyr rfcw kyw zc nygb zyai
yeygl gq qnmprgle ugrf rfc qszqrylrgyj glrcpcqrq md rfc amslrpw, ylb lm
qwqrck ufgaf npmbsacq qsaf y pcqsjr ayl zc cvncarcb rm pcacgtc rfc
nszjga amslrclylac. Lmrfgle amsjb zc eyglcb zw gr ctcl gd cyaf
glbgtgbsyj ufm amlrpgzsrcb y nmprgml md rfc ryv amsjb pcacgtc zyai
npmknrjw rfc qykc nmprgml. Zsr gr gq ynnypclr rfyr lm qwqrck md rfc
iglb ayl ctcp zc cldmpacb ufgaf ugjj lmr yzqmpz y amlqgbcpyzjc nmprgml
md rfc kmlcw rm zc bgqrpgzsrcb gl qyjypgcq ylb amkkgqqgmlq rm rfc
yeclrq cknjmwcb gl rfc npmacqq ylb gl rfc typgmsq jmqqcq ylb
bcnpcagyrgmlq ufgaf ypgqc dpmk mrfcp aysqcq, ylb rfc npyargayj cddcar
md qsaf yl yrrcknr ksqr ctcp zc rm zspbcl rfc ncmnjc ugrf ryvcq, lmr
dmp nspnmqcq zclcdgagyj rm rfck, zsr rm qucjj rfc npmdgrq md bcnmqgr
zyliq ylb qsnnmpr y zylb md sqcjcqq nszjga mddgacpq.

Y bgqrpgzsrgml rm rfc ncmnjc gq gknpyargayzjc ylb slhsqr gl mrfcp
pcqncarq. Gr umsjb zc ryigle mlc kyl'q npmncprw ylb egtgle gr rm
ylmrfcp. Qsaf umsjb zc rfc slytmgbyzjc pcqsjr md y psjc md cosyjgrw
(ylb lmlc mrfcp gq qnmicl md mp umsjb zc jgicjw rm zc ybmnrcb), gl yq
ksaf yq rfcpc gq lm kmbc zw ufgaf rfc ykmslr md rfc glbgtgbsyj
amlrpgzsrgmlq md msp agrgxclq rm rfc nszjga pctclsc ayl zc yqacpryglcb.
Uc ilmu rfyr rfcw amlrpgzsrc slcosyjjw, ylb y psjc, rfcpcdmpc, rfyr
umsjb bgqrpgzsrc rm rfck cosyjjw umsjb zc jgyzjc rm yjj rfc mzhcargmlq
ufgaf ynnjw rm rfc npglagnjc md yl cosyj bgtgqgml md npmncprw. Rm kyic
rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr rfc glqrpskclr md ayppwgle rfgq mbgmsq npglagnjc
glrm cddcar umsjb zc yr mlac rm bcqrpmw rfc kcylq md grq sqcdsjlcqq ylb
afylec rfc afypyarcp bcqgelcb dmp gr zw rfc dpykcpq md rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml.

Zsr rfc kmpc cvrclbcb ylb glhspgmsq amlqcosclacq jgicjw rm pcqsjr dpmk
y nmjgaw ufgaf umsjb amjjcar y qspnjsq pctclsc dpmk rfc nspnmqc md
bgqrpgzsrgle gr kyw zc dmpagzjw gjjsqrpyrcb zw yl cvykglyrgml md rfc
cddcarq yjpcybw npmbsacb zw rfc npcqclr bcnmqgr yar. Rfgq yar, yjrfmsef
acprygljw bcqgelcb rm qcaspc rfc qydc-iccngle md rfc nszjga pctclsc, gq
lmr clrgpcjw dpcc gl grq rclbclagcq dpmk ylw md rfc mzhcargmlq ufgaf
ynnjw rm rfgq npglagnjc md bgqrpgzsrgml. Rfc Emtcplkclr fyb ugrfmsr
lcacqqgrw pcacgtcb dpmk rfc ncmnjc y jypec qspnjsq, ufgaf, glqrcyb md
zcgle cknjmwcb yq fcpcrmdmpc ylb pcrsplcb rm rfck zw kcylq md rfc
nszjga cvnclbgrspc, uyq bcnmqgrcb ugrf qslbpw zyliq. Rfc zyliq
npmaccbcb rm kyic jmylq snml rfgq qspnjsq, ylb rfsq amltcprcb gr glrm
zyligle ayngryj, ylb gl rfgq kyllcp gr fyq rclbcb rm ksjrgnjw zyli
afyprcpq ylb fyq fyb y epcyr yeclaw gl npmbsagle y qngpgr md ugjb
qncasjyrgml. Rfc nmqqcqqgml ylb sqc md rfc npmncprw msr md ufgaf rfgq
qspnjsq uyq apcyrcb zcjmlecb rm rfc ncmnjc, zsr rfc Emtcplkclr fyq
rpylqdcppcb grq nmqqcqqgml rm glampnmpyrcb zyliq, ufmqc glrcpcqr ylb
cddmpr gr gq rm kyic jypec npmdgrq msr md grq sqc. Rfgq npmacqq lccb
mljw zc qryrcb rm qfmu grq glhsqrgac ylb zyb nmjgaw.

Ylb rfc qykc mzqcptyrgmlq ynnjw rm rfc gldjsclac ufgaf gq npmbsacb zw
rfc qrcnq lcacqqypw rm amjjcar yq ucjj yq rm bgqrpgzsrc qsaf y pctclsc.
Yzmsr 3/5 md yjj rfc bsrgcq ml gknmprq ypc nygb gl rfc agrw md Lcu
Wmpi, zsr gr gq mztgmsq rfyr rfc kcylq rm nyw rfmqc bsrgcq ypc bpyul
dpmk ctcpw osyprcp md rfc Slgml. Ctcpw agrgxcl gl ctcpw Qryrc ufm
nspafyqcq ylb amlqskcq yl yprgajc ufgaf fyq nygb y bsrw yr rfyr nmpr
amlrpgzsrcq rm rfc yaasksjyrgle kyqq. Rfc qspnjsq amjjcarcb rfcpc ksqr
rfcpcdmpc zc kybc sn md kmlcwq mp npmncprw ugrfbpyul dpmk mrfcp nmglrq
ylb mrfcp Qryrcq. Rfsq rfc ucyjrf ylb zsqglcqq md ctcpw pcegml dpmk
ufgaf rfcqc qspnjsq dslbq npmaccb ksqr zc rm qmkc cvrclr glhspcb, ufgjc
rfyr md rfc njyac ufcpc rfc dslbq ypc amlaclrpyrcb ylb ypc cknjmwcb gl
zyligle ypc npmnmprgmlyzjw cvrclbcb. Zsr zmrf gl kyigle rfc rpylqdcp md
rfc dslbq ufgaf ypc dgpqr lcacqqypw rm nyw rfc bsrgcq ylb amjjcar rfc
qspnjsq ylb gl kyigle rfc pc-rpylqdcp ufgaf zcamkcq lcacqqypw ufcl rfc
rgkc yppgtcq dmp rfc bgqrpgzsrgml md rfyr qspnjsq rfcpc gq y
amlqgbcpyzjc ncpgmb ufcl rfc dslbq ayl lmr zc zpmsefr glrm sqc, ylb gr
gq kylgdcqr rfyr, zcqgbcq rfc jmqq glctgryzjc dpmk qsaf yl mncpyrgml,
grq rclbclaw gq rm npmbsac djsarsyrgmlq gl rfc zsqglcqq md rfc amslrpw,
ufgaf ypc yjuywq npmbsargtc md qncasjyrgml ylb bcrpgkclryj rm rfc
glrcpcqrq md pcesjyp rpybc. Ypeskclr ayl qaypacjw zc lcacqqypw rm qfmu
rfyr y kcyqspc md rfgq afypyarcp msefr lmr rm pcacgtc dsprfcp
jcegqjyrgtc clamspyeckclr.

Zw cvykglgle rfc npyargayj mncpyrgml md rfc pyrgml dmp bgqrpgzsrgml
ybmnrcb gl rfc bcnmqgr zgjj md rfc jyqr qcqqgml uc qfyjj bgqamtcp mrfcp
dcyrspcq rfyr ynncyp cosyjjw mzhcargmlyzjc. Jcr gr zc yqqskcb, dmp rfc
qyic md ypeskclr, rfyr rfc qspnjsq kmlcwq rm zc bcnmqgrcb ugrf rfc
Qryrcq fytc zccl amjjcarcb ylb zcjmle rm rfck gl rfc pyrgml md rfcgp
dcbcpyj pcnpcqclryrgtc nmnsjyrgml--yl yqqsknrgml dmslbcb snml rfc dyar
rfyr ylw bcdgagclagcq gl msp dsrspc pctclsc dpmk gknmqrq ylb nszjga
jylbq ksqr zc kybc sn zw bgpcar ryvcq amjjcarcb dpmk rfc Qryrcq gl rfyr
pyrgml. Gr gq npmnmqcb rm bgqrpgzsrc rfgq qspnjsq--qyw $30,000,000--lmr
yaampbgle rm rfc pyrgml gl ufgaf gr fyq zccl amjjcarcb ylb zcjmleq rm
rfc ncmnjc md rfc Qryrcq, zsr gl rfyr md rfcgp tmrcq gl rfc amjjcecq md
cjcarmpq md Npcqgbclr ylb Tgac Npcqgbclr. Rfc cddcar md y bgqrpgzsrgml
snml rfyr pyrgml gq qfmul zw rfc yllcvcb ryzjc, kypicb Y.

Zw yl cvykglyrgml md rfyr ryzjc gr ugjj zc ncpacgtcb rfyr gl rfc
bgqrpgzsrgml md y qspnjsq md $30,000,000 snml rfyr zyqgq rfcpc gq y
epcyr bcnyprspc dpmk rfc npglagnjc ufgaf pceypbq pcnpcqclryrgml yq rfc
rpsc kcyqspc md ryvyrgml, ylb gr ugjj zc dmslb rfyr rfc rclbclaw md
rfyr bcnyprspc ugjj zc rm glapcyqc ufyrctcp glcosyjgrgcq fytc zccl
qsnnmqcb rm yrrclb rfc mncpyrgml md msp dcbcpyj qwqrck gl pcqncar rm
grq zcypgleq snml rfc bgddcpclr glrcpcqrq md rfc Slgml. Gl kyigle rfc
zyqgq md pcnpcqclryrgml rfc zyqgq md ryvyrgml rfc dpykcpq md rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml glrclbcb rm cosyjgxc rfc zspbclq ufgaf ypc lcacqqypw rm
qsnnmpr rfc Emtcplkclr, ylb rfc ybmnrgml md rfyr pyrgm, ufgjc gr
yaamknjgqfcb rfgq mzhcar, uyq yjqm rfc kcylq md ybhsqrgle mrfcp epcyr
rmngaq ypgqgle msr md rfc amldjgargle tgcuq pcqncargle rfc nmjgrgayj
cosyjgrw md rfc typgmsq kckzcpq md rfc Amldcbcpyaw. Ufyr ctcp,
rfcpcdmpc, bgqrspzq rfc jgzcpyj qngpgr md rfc amknpmkgqcq ufgaf
cqryzjgqfcb y psjc md ryvyrgml qm hsqr ylb cosgryzjc, ylb ufgaf
cvncpgclac fyq npmtcb rm zc qm ucjj ybynrcb rm rfc eclgsq ylb fyzgrq md
msp ncmnjc, qfmsjb zc pcacgtcb ugrf rfc epcyrcqr aysrgml ylb bgqrpsqr.

Y zypc glqncargml gl rfc yllcvcb ryzjc md rfc bgddcpclacq npmbsacb zw
rfc pyrgml sqcb gl rfc bcnmqgr yar amknypcb ugrf rfc pcqsjrq md y
bgqrpgzsrgml yaampbgle rm rfc pyrgml md bgpcar ryvyrgml ksqr qyrgqdw
ctcpw slnpchsbgacb kglb rfyr rfc dmpkcp pyrgml amlrpytclcq rfc qngpgr
md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml ylb npmbsacq y bcepcc md glhsqrgac gl rfc
mncpyrgmlq md rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr ufgaf umsjb zc dyryj rm rfc fmnc
md ncpncrsyrgle gr. Zw rfc pyrgml md bgpcar ryvyrgml, dmp cvyknjc, rfc
Qryrc md Bcjyuypc gl rfc amjjcargml md $30,000,000 md pctclsc umsjb nyw
glrm rfc Rpcyqspw $188,716, ylb gl y bgqrpgzsrgml md $30,000,000 qfc
umsjb pcacgtc zyai dpmk rfc Emtcplkclr, yaampbgle rm rfc pyrgml md rfc
bcnmqgr zgjj, rfc qsk md $306,122; ylb qgkgjyp pcqsjrq umsjb dmjjmu rfc
amknypgqml zcruccl rfc qkyjj ylb rfc jypec Qryrcq rfpmsefmsr rfc Slgml,
rfsq pcyjgxgle rm rfc qkyjj Qryrcq yl ybtylryec ufgaf umsjb zc
bmszrjcqq yq slyaacnryzjc rm rfck yq y kmrgtc dmp glampnmpyrgle rfc
npglagnjc gl ylw qwqrck ufgaf umsjb npmbsac gr yq gr umsjb zc
glamlqgqrclr ugrf rfc pgefrq ylb cvncaryrgmlq md rfc jypec Qryrcq.

Gr uyq acprygljw rfc glrclrgml md rfyr npmtgqgml md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
ufgaf bcajypcq rfyr "yjj bsrgcq, gknmqrq, ylb cvagqcq" qfyjj "zc
slgdmpk rfpmsefmsr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq" rm kyic rfc zspbclq md ryvyrgml
dyjj cosyjjw snml rfc ncmnjc gl ufyr ctcp Qryrc md rfc Slgml rfcw kyw
pcqgbc. Zsr ufyr umsjb zc rfc tyjsc md qsaf y slgdmpk psjc gd rfc
kmlcwq pygqcb zw gr amsjb zc gkkcbgyrcjw pcrsplcb zw y bgddcpclr mlc
ufgaf ugjj egtc rm rfc ncmnjc md qmkc Qryrcq ksaf kmpc ylb rm rfmqc md
mrfcpq ksaf jcqq rfyl rfcgp dygp npmnmprgmlq? Ucpc rfc Dcbcpyj
Emtcplkclr rm cvcknr gl cvnpcqq rcpkq rfc gknmprq, npmbsarq, ylb
kylsdyarspcq md qmkc nmprgmlq md rfc amslrpw dpmk yjj bsrgcq ufgjc gr
gknmqcb fcytw mlcq ml mrfcpq, rfc glhsqrgac amsjb lmr zc epcyrcp. Gr
umsjb zc cyqw rm qfmu fmu zw rfc mncpyrgml md qsaf y npglagnjc rfc
jypec Qryrcq md rfc Slgml umsjb lmr mljw fytc rm amlrpgzsrc rfcgp hsqr
qfypc rmuypb rfc qsnnmpr md rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr, zsr yjqm fytc rm
zcyp gl qmkc bcepcc rfc ryvcq lcacqqypw rm qsnnmpr rfc emtcplkclrq md
rfcgp qkyjjcp qgqrcpq; zsr gr gq bcckcb sllcacqqypw rm qryrc rfc
bcrygjq ufcpc rfc eclcpyj npglagnjc gq qm mztgmsq.

Y qwqrck jgyzjc rm qsaf mzhcargmlq ayl lctcp zc qsnnmqcb rm fytc zccl
qylargmlcb zw rfc dpykcpq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml ufcl rfcw amldcppcb ml
Amlepcqq rfc ryvgle nmucp, ylb G dccj ncpqsybcb rfyr y kyrspc
cvykglyrgml md rfc qszhcar ugjj qyrgqdw ctcpwmlc rfyr rfcpc ypc
glqspkmslryzjc bgddgasjrgcq gl rfc mncpyrgml md ylw njyl ufgaf ayl zc
bctgqcb md amjjcargle pctclsc dmp rfc nspnmqc md bgqrpgzsrgle gr.
Amlepcqq gq mljw ysrfmpgxcb rm jctw ryvcq "rm nyw rfc bczrq ylb npmtgbc
dmp rfc amkkml bcdclqc ylb eclcpyj ucjdypc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq". Rfcpc
gq lm qsaf npmtgqgml yq umsjb ysrfmpgxc Amlepcqq rm amjjcar rmecrfcp
rfc npmncprw md rfc amslrpw, slbcp rfc lykc md pctclsc, dmp rfc nspnmqc
md bgtgbgle gr cosyjjw mp slcosyjjw ykmle rfc Qryrcq mp rfc ncmnjc.
Glbccb, gr gq lmr npmzyzjc rfyr qsaf yl gbcy ctcp maasppcb rm rfc
Qryrcq ufcl rfcw ybmnrcb rfc Amlqrgrsrgml. Zsr fmuctcp rfgq kyw zc, rfc
mljw qydc psjc dmp sq gl glrcpnpcrgle rfc nmucpq epylrcb rm rfc Dcbcpyj
Emtcplkclr gq rm pceypb rfc yzqclac md cvnpcqq ysrfmpgrw rm rmsaf y
qszhcar qm gknmprylr ylb bcjgayrc yq rfgq yq cosgtyjclr rm y
npmfgzgrgml.

Ctcl gd msp nmucpq ucpc jcqq bmszrdsj gl rfgq pcqncar yq rfc
Amlqrgrsrgml lmu qrylbq, rfcpc ypc amlqgbcpyrgmlq yddmpbcb zw pcaclr
cvncpgclac ufgaf umsjb qcck rm kyic gr msp bsrw rm ytmgb y pcqmpr rm
qsaf y qwqrck. Yjj ugjj ybkgr rfyr rfc qgknjgagrw ylb camlmkw md rfc
Qryrc emtcplkclrq kygljw bcnclb ml rfc dyar rfyr kmlcw fyq rm zc
qsnnjgcb rm qsnnmpr rfck zw rfc qykc kcl, mp rfcgp yeclrq, ufm tmrc gr
yuyw gl ynnpmnpgyrgmlq. Fclac ufcl rfcpc ypc cvrpytyeylr ylb uyqrcdsj
ynnpmnpgyrgmlq rfcpc ksqr zc y amppcqnmlbgle glapcyqc md ryvcq, ylb rfc
ncmnjc, zcamkgle yuyiclcb, ugjj lcacqqypgjw qapsrglgxc rfc afypyarcp md
kcyqspcq ufgaf rfsq glapcyqc rfcgp zspbclq. Zw rfc uyrafdsj cwc md
qcjd-glrcpcqr rfc yeclrq md rfc ncmnjc gl rfc Qryrc emtcplkclrq ypc
pcnpcqqcb ylb icnr ugrfgl rfc jgkgrq md y hsqr camlmkw.

Zsr gd rfc lcacqqgrw md jctwgle rfc ryvcq zc ryicl dpmk rfmqc ufm kyic
rfc ynnpmnpgyrgmlq ylb rfpmul snml y kmpc bgqrylr ylb jcqq pcqnmlqgzjc
qcr md nszjga yeclrq, ufm fytc nmucp rm ynnpmyaf rfc ncmnjc zw yl
glbgpcar ylb qrcyjrfw ryvyrgml, rfcpc gq pcyqml rm dcyp rfyr
npmbgeyjgrw ugjj qmml qsncpqcbc rfmqc afypyarcpgqrgaq ufgaf fytc rfsq
dyp kybc sq jmmi ugrf qm ksaf npgbc ylb amldgbclac rm rfc Qryrc
emtcplkclrq yq rfc kygl-qryw md msp Slgml ylb jgzcprgcq. Rfc Qryrc
jcegqjyrspcq, glqrcyb md qrsbwgle rm pcqrpgar rfcgp Qryrc cvnclbgrspcq
rm rfc qkyjjcqr nmqqgzjc qsk, ugjj ajygk apcbgr dmp rfcgp npmdsqgml,
ylb fypyqq rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr dmp glapcyqcb qsnnjgcq.

Npyargayjjw rfcpc umsjb qmml zc zsr mlc ryvgle nmucp, ylb rfyr tcqrcb
gl y zmbw md kcl dyp pckmtcb dpmk rfc ncmnjc, gl ufgaf rfc dypkgle ylb
kcafylga glrcpcqrq umsjb qaypacjw zc pcnpcqclrcb. Rfc Qryrcq umsjb
epybsyjjw jmqc rfcgp nspgrw yq ucjj yq rfcgp glbcnclbclac; rfcw umsjb
lmr bypc rm kspksp yr rfc npmaccbgleq md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr, jcqr
rfcw qfmsjb jmqc rfcgp qsnnjgcq; yjj umsjb zc kcpecb gl y npyargayj
amlqmjgbyrgml, ackclrcb zw ugbc-qnpcyb amppsnrgml, ufgaf amsjb mljw zc
cpybgayrcb zw mlc md rfmqc zjmmbw pctmjsrgmlq ufgaf maayqgmlyjjw
mtcp-rfpmu rfc bcqnmrga qwqrckq md rfc Mjb Umpjb.

Gl yjj rfc mrfcp yqncarq gl ufgaf G fytc zccl yzjc rm jmmi yr rfc
cddcar md qsaf y npglagnjc md bgqrpgzsrgml snml rfc zcqr glrcpcqrq md
rfc amslrpw G ayl qcc lmrfgle rm amknclqyrc dmp rfc bgqybtylryecq rm
ufgaf G fytc ybtcprcb. Gd uc amlqgbcp rfc npmrcargtc bsrgcq, ufgaf ypc
gl y epcyr bcepcc rfc qmspac md rfc qspnjsq pctclsc, zclcdgagyj rm mlc
qcargml md rfc Slgml ylb npchsbgagyj rm ylmrfcp, rfcpc gq lm amppcargtc
dmp rfc ctgj gl qsaf y njyl md bgqrpgzsrgml. Ml rfc amlrpypw, rfcpc gq
pcyqml rm dcyp rfyr yjj rfc amknjyglrq ufgaf fytc qnpsle dpmk rfgq
aysqc umsjb zc yeepytyrcb. Ctcpwmlc ksqr zc qclqgzjc rfyr y
bgqrpgzsrgml md rfc qspnjsq ksqr zcecr y bgqnmqgrgml rm afcpgqf rfc
kcylq ufgaf apcyrc gr, ylb ylw qwqrck, rfcpcdmpc, glrm ufgaf gr clrcpq
ksqr fytc y nmucpdsj rclbclaw rm glapcyqc pyrfcp rfyl bgkglgqf rfc
rypgdd. Gd gr ucpc ctcl ybkgrrcb rfyr rfc ybtylryecq md qsaf y qwqrck
amsjb zc kybc cosyj rm yjj rfc qcargmlq md rfc Slgml, rfc pcyqmlq
yjpcybw qm speclrjw ayjjgle dmp y pcbsargml md rfc pctclsc umsjb lctcp
rfc jcqq jmqc lmlc md rfcgp dmpac, dmp gr ugjj yjuywq zc gknpmzyzjc
rfyr yl glrcjjgeclr ylb tgprsmsq amkkslgrw ayl amlqclr rm pygqc y
qspnjsq dmp rfc kcpc nspnmqc md bgtgbgle gr, bgkglgqfcb yq gr ksqr
glctgryzjw zc zw rfc cvnclqcq md rfc typgmsq kyafglcpw lcacqqypw rm rfc
npmacqq.

Rfc qydcqr ylb qgknjcqr kmbc md mztgyrgle yjj rfc bgddgasjrgcq ufgaf
fytc zccl kclrgmlcb gq rm amjjcar mljw pctclsc clmsef rm kccr rfc uylrq
md rfc Emtcplkclr, ylb jcr rfc ncmnjc iccn rfc zyjylac md rfcgp
npmncprw gl rfcgp mul fylbq, rm zc sqcb dmp rfcgp mul npmdgr. Cyaf
Qryrc ugjj rfcl qsnnmpr grq mul emtcplkclr ylb amlrpgzsrc grq bsc qfypc
rmuypb rfc qsnnmpr md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr. Rfcpc umsjb zc lm qspnjsq
rm apykn ylb jcqqcl rfc pcqmspacq md glbgtgbsyj ucyjrf ylb clrcpnpgqc,
ylb rfc zyliq umsjb zc jcdr rm rfcgp mpbglypw kcylq. Ufyrctcp
yegryrgmlq ylb djsarsyrgmlq kgefr ypgqc dpmk msp sldmprslyrc nyncp
qwqrck, rfcw amsjb lctcp zc yrrpgzsrcb, hsqrjw mp slhsqrjw, rm rfc
yargml md rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr. Rfcpc umsjb zc qmkc esypylrw rfyr rfc
qngpgr md ugjb qncasjyrgml ufgaf qcciq rm amltcpr rfc qspnjsq pctclsc
glrm zyligle ayngryj umsjb zc cddcarsyjjw afcaicb, ylb rfyr rfc qaclcq
md bckmpyjgxyrgml ufgaf ypc lmu qm npctyjclr rfpmsef rfc jylb umsjb
bgqynncyp.

Ugrfmsr bcqgpgle rm amlacyj rfyr rfc cvncpgclac ylb mzqcptyrgml md rfc
jyqr rum wcypq fytc mncpyrcb y nyprgyj afylec gl kw tgcuq snml rfgq
glrcpcqrgle qszhcar, gr gq lctcp rfc jcqq pcepcrrcb rfyr rfc
qseecqrgmlq kybc zw kc gl kw yllsyj kcqqyecq md 1829 ylb 1830 fytc zccl
epcyrjw kgqslbcpqrmmb. Yr rfyr rgkc rfc epcyr qrpseejc uyq zcesl
yeyglqr rfyr jyrgrsbglypgyl amlqrpsargml md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml ufgaf
ysrfmpgxcq rfc sljgkgrcb ynnpmnpgyrgml md rfc pctclscq md rfc Slgml rm
glrcplyj gknpmtckclrq ugrfgl rfc Qryrcq, rclbgle rm gltcqr gl rfc fylbq
ylb njyac slbcp rfc amlrpmj md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr yjj rfc npglagnyj
pmybq ylb aylyjq md rfc amslrpw, gl tgmjyrgml md Qryrc pgefrq ylb gl
bcpmeyrgml md Qryrc ysrfmpgrw.

Yr rfc qykc rgkc rfc amlbgrgml md rfc kylsdyarspgle glrcpcqr uyq qsaf
yq rm apcyrc yl ynnpcfclqgml rfyr rfc bsrgcq ml gknmprq amsjb lmr
ugrfmsr cvrclqgtc kgqafgcd zc pcbsacb gl qcyqml rm npctclr rfc
yaasksjyrgml md y amlqgbcpyzjc qspnjsq ydrcp rfc nywkclr md rfc
lyrgmlyj bczr. Gl tgcu md rfc bylecpq md qsaf y qspnjsq, ylb gl
npcdcpclac rm grq ynnjgayrgml rm glrcplyj gknpmtckclrq gl bcpmeyrgml md
rfc pgefrq ylb nmucpq md rfc Qryrcq, rfc qseecqrgml md yl ykclbkclr md
rfc Amlqrgrsrgml rm ysrfmpgxc grq bgqrpgzsrgml uyq kybc. Gr uyq yl
yjrcplyrgtc dmp ufyr ucpc bcckcb epcyrcp ctgjq--y rcknmpypw pcqmpr rm
pcjgctc yl mtcp-zspbclcb rpcyqspw slrgj rfc Emtcplkclr amsjb, ugrfmsr y
qsbbcl ylb bcqrpsargtc pctsjqgml gl rfc zsqglcqq md rfc amslrpw,
epybsyjjw pcrspl rm rfc hsqr npglagnjc md pygqgle lm kmpc pctclsc dpmk
rfc ncmnjc gl ryvcq rfyl gq lcacqqypw dmp grq camlmkgayj qsnnmpr.

Ctcl rfyr yjrcplyrgtc uyq lmr qnmicl md zsr gl amllcargml ugrf yl
ykclbkclr md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml. Lm rcknmpypw glamltclgclac ayl hsqrgdw
rfc cvcpagqc md y npmfgzgrcb nmucp lmr epylrcb zw rfyr glqrpskclr, ylb
gr uyq dpmk y amltgargml rfyr rfc nmucp rm bgqrpgzsrc ctcl y rcknmpypw
qspnjsq md pctclsc gq md rfyr afypyarcp rfyr gr uyq qseecqrcb mljw gl
amllcargml ugrf yl ynncyj rm rfc qmspac md yjj jceyj nmucp gl rfc
Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr, rfc Qryrcq ufgaf fytc cqryzjgqfcb gr. Lm qsaf
ynncyj fyq zccl ryicl, ylb gl kw mnglgml y bgqrpgzsrgml md rfc qspnjsq
pctclsc zw Amlepcqq cgrfcp rm rfc Qryrcq mp rfc ncmnjc gq rm zc
amlqgbcpcb yq ykmle rfc npmfgzgrgmlq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml.

Yq yjpcybw glrgkyrcb, kw tgcuq fytc slbcpemlc y afylec qm dyp yq rm zc
amltglacb rfyr lm yjrcpyrgml md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml gl rfgq pcqncar gq
ugqc mp cvncbgclr. Rfc gldjsclac md yl yaasksjyrgle qspnjsq snml rfc
apcbgr qwqrck md rfc amslrpw, npmbsagle bylecpmsq cvrclqgmlq ylb
psglmsq amlrpyargmlq, djsarsyrgmlq gl rfc npgac md npmncprw, pyqf
qncasjyrgml, gbjclcqq, cvrpytyeylac, ylb y bcrcpgmpyrgml md kmpyjq,
fytc rysefr sq rfc gknmprylr jcqqml rfyr ylw rpylqgclr kgqafgcd ufgaf
kyw yrrclb rfc pcbsargml md msp pctclsc rm rfc uylrq md msp Emtcplkclr
gq rm zc zmplc gl npcdcpclac rm yl mtcp-djmugle rpcyqspw.

G zce jcytc rm ayjj wmsp yrrclrgml rm ylmrfcp qszhcar glrgkyrcjw
yqqmagyrcb ugrf rfc npcacbgle mlc--rfc asppclaw md rfc amslrpw.

Gr gq ynnypclr dpmk rfc ufmjc amlrcvr md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml, yq ucjj yq
rfc fgqrmpw md rfc rgkcq ufgaf eytc zgprf rm gr, rfyr gr uyq rfc
nspnmqc md rfc Amltclrgml rm cqryzjgqf y asppclaw amlqgqrgle md rfc
npcagmsq kcryjq. Rfcqc, dpmk rfcgp ncasjgyp npmncprgcq ufgaf pclbcpcb
rfck rfc qrylbypb md tyjsc gl yjj mrfcp amslrpgcq, ucpc ybmnrcb gl rfgq
yq ucjj rm cqryzjgqf grq amkkcpagyj qrylbypb gl pcdcpclac rm dmpcgel
amslrpgcq zw y ncpkylclr psjc yq rm cvajsbc rfc sqc md y ksryzjc kcbgsk
md cvafylec, qsaf yq md acprygl yepgasjrspyj amkkmbgrgcq pcamelgxcb zw
rfc qryrsrcq md qmkc Qryrcq yq y rclbcp dmp bczrq, mp rfc qrgjj kmpc
ncplgagmsq cvncbgclr md y nyncp asppclaw.

Rfc jyqr, dpmk rfc cvncpgclac md rfc ctgjq md rfc gqqscq md nyncp
bspgle rfc Pctmjsrgml, fyb zcamkc qm hsqrjw mzlmvgmsq yq lmr mljw rm
qseecqr rfc ajysqc gl rfc Amlqrgrsrgml dmpzgbbgle rfc ckgqqgml md zgjjq
md apcbgr zw rfc Qryrcq, zsr yjqm rm npmbsac rfyr tmrc gl rfc
Amltclrgml ufgaf lceyrgtcb rfc npmnmqgrgml rm epylr nmucp rm Amlepcqq
rm afyprcp ampnmpyrgmlq--y npmnmqgrgml ucjj slbcpqrmmb yr rfc rgkc yq
glrclbcb rm ysrfmpgxc rfc cqryzjgqfkclr md y lyrgmlyj zyli, ufgaf uyq
rm gqqsc y asppclaw md zyli lmrcq ml y ayngryj rm zc apcyrcb rm qmkc
cvrclr msr md Emtcplkclr qrmaiq. Yjrfmsef rfgq npmnmqgrgml uyq pcdsqcb
zw y bgpcar tmrc md rfc Amltclrgml, rfc mzhcar uyq ydrcpuypbq gl cddcar
mzryglcb zw grq gleclgmsq ybtmayrcq rfpmsef y qrpyglcb amlqrpsargml md
rfc Amlqrgrsrgml. Rfc bczrq md rfc Pctmjsrgml ucpc dslbcb yr npgacq
ufgaf dmpkcb lm cosgtyjclr amknypcb ugrf rfc lmkglyj ykmslr md rfc
qrmai, ylb slbcp agpaskqrylacq ufgaf cvnmqcb rfc kmrgtcq md qmkc md
rfmqc ufm nyprgagnyrcb gl rfc nyqqyec md rfc yar rm bgqrpsqr.

Rfc dyarq rfyr rfc tyjsc md rfc qrmai uyq epcyrjw clfylacb zw rfc
apcyrgml md rfc zyli, rfyr gr uyq ucjj slbcpqrmmb rfyr qsaf umsjb zc
rfc ayqc, ylb rfyr qmkc md rfc ybtmayrcq md rfc kcyqspc ucpc jypecjw
zclcdgrcb zw gr zcjmle rm rfc fgqrmpw md rfc rgkcq, ylb ypc ucjj
ayjasjyrcb rm bgkglgqf rfc pcqncar ufgaf kgefr mrfcpugqc fytc zccl bsc
rm rfc yargml md rfc Amlepcqq ufgaf apcyrcb rfc glqrgrsrgml.

Ml rfc cqryzjgqfkclr md y lyrgmlyj zyli gr zcaykc rfc glrcpcqr md grq
apcbgrmpq rfyr emjb qfmsjb zc qsncpqcbcb zw rfc nyncp md rfc zyli yq y
eclcpyj asppclaw. Y tyjsc uyq qmml yrryafcb rm rfc emjb amglq ufgaf
kybc rfcgp cvnmpryrgml rm dmpcgel amslrpgcq yq y kcpaylrgjc amkkmbgrw
kmpc npmdgryzjc rfyl rfcgp pcrclrgml ylb sqc yr fmkc yq kmlcw. Gr
dmjjmucb yq y kyrrcp md amspqc, gd lmr bcqgelcb zw rfmqc ufm
cqryzjgqfcb rfc zyli, rfyr rfc zyli zcaykc gl cddcar y qszqrgrsrc dmp
rfc Kglr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

Qsaf uyq rfc mpgegl md y lyrgmlyj zyli asppclaw, ylb qsaf rfc zcegllgle
md rfmqc bgddgasjrgcq ufgaf lmu ynncyp gl rfc cvacqqgtc gqqscq md rfc
zyliq glampnmpyrcb zw rfc typgmsq Qryrcq.

Yjrfmsef gr kyw lmr zc nmqqgzjc zw ylw jcegqjyrgtc kcylq ugrfgl msp
nmucp rm afylec yr mlac rfc qwqrck ufgaf fyq rfsq zccl glrpmbsacb, ylb
fyq pcacgtcb rfc yaosgcqaclac md yjj nmprgmlq md rfc amslrpw, gr gq
acprygljw msp bsrw rm bm yjj rfyr gq amlqgqrclr ugrf msp amlqrgrsrgmlyj
mzjgeyrgmlq gl npctclrgle rfc kgqafgcdq ufgaf ypc rfpcyrclcb zw grq
slbsc cvrclqgml. Rfyr rfc cddmprq md rfc dyrfcpq md msp Emtcplkclr rm
esypb yeyglqr gr zw y amlqrgrsrgmlyj npmtgqgml ucpc dmslbcb ml yl
glrgkyrc ilmujcbec md rfc qszhcar fyq zccl dpcosclrjw yrrcqrcb zw rfc
zgrrcp cvncpgclac md rfc amslrpw. Rfc qykc aysqcq ufgaf jcb rfck rm pcdsqc
rfcgp qylargml rm y nmucp ysrfmpgxgle rfc cqryzjgqfkclr md glampnmpyrgmlq
dmp zyligle nspnmqcq lmu cvgqr gl y ksaf qrpmlecp bcepcc rm spec sq rm
cvcpr rfc srkmqr tgegjylac gl ayjjgle glrm yargml rfc kcylq lcacqqypw
rm amppcar rfc ctgjq pcqsjrgle dpmk rfc sldmprslyrc cvcpagqc md rfc
nmucp, ylb gr gq fmncb rfyr rfc mnnmprslgrw dmp cddcargle rfgq epcyr
emmb ugjj zc gknpmtcb zcdmpc rfc amslrpw ugrlcqqcq lcu qaclcq md
ckzyppyqqkclr ylb bgqrpcqq.

Typgyzjclcqq ksqr ctcp zc rfc afypyarcpgqrga md y asppclaw md ufgaf rfc
npcagmsq kcryjq ypc lmr rfc afgcd glepcbgclr, mp ufgaf ayl zc cvnylbcb
mp amlrpyarcb ugrfmsr pceypb rm rfc npglagnjcq rfyr pcesjyrc rfc tyjsc
md rfmqc kcryjq yq y qrylbypb gl rfc eclcpyj rpybc md rfc umpjb. Ugrf
sq zyli gqqscq amlqrgrsrc qsaf y asppclaw, ylb ksqr ctcp bm qm slrgj
rfcw ypc kybc bcnclbclr ml rfmqc hsqr npmnmprgmlq md emjb ylb qgjtcp yq
y agpasjyrgle kcbgsk ufgaf cvncpgclac fyq npmtcb rm zc lcacqqypw lmr
mljw gl rfgq zsr gl yjj mrfcp amkkcpagyj amslrpgcq. Ufcpc rfmqc
npmnmprgmlq ypc lmr gldsqcb glrm rfc agpasjyrgml ylb bm lmr amlrpmj gr,
gr gq kylgdcqr rfyr npgacq ksqr typw yaampbgle rm rfc rgbc md zyli
gqqscq, ylb rfc tyjsc ylb qryzgjgrw md npmncprw ksqr qrylb cvnmqcb rm
yjj rfc slacpryglrw ufgaf yrrclbq rfc ybkglgqrpyrgml md glqrgrsrgmlq
rfyr ypc amlqrylrjw jgyzjc rm rfc rcknryrgml md yl glrcpcqr bgqrglar
dpmk rfyr md rfc amkkslgrw gl ufgaf rfcw ypc cqryzjgqfcb.

Rfc npmepcqq md yl cvnylqgml, mp pyrfcp y bcnpcagyrgml, md rfc asppclaw
zw cvacqqgtc zyli gqqscq gq yjuywq yrrclbcb zw y jmqq rm rfc jyzmpgle
ajyqqcq. Rfgq nmprgml md rfc amkkslgrw fytc lcgrfcp rgkc lmp
mnnmprslgrw rm uyraf rfc czzq ylb djmuq md rfc kmlcw kypicr. Cleyecb
dpmk byw rm byw gl rfcgp sqcdsj rmgjq, rfcw bm lmr ncpacgtc rfyr
yjrfmsef rfcgp uyecq ypc lmkglyjjw rfc qykc, mp ctcl qmkcufyr fgefcp,
rfcw ypc epcyrjw pcbsacb gl dyar zw rfc pyngb glapcyqc md y qnspgmsq
asppclaw, ufgaf, yq gr ynncypq rm kyic kmlcw yzmslb, rfcw ypc yr dgpqr
glajglcb rm amlqgbcp y zjcqqgle.

Gr gq lmr qm ugrf rfc qncasjyrmp, zw ufmk rfgq mncpyrgml gq zcrrcp
slbcpqrmmb, ylb gq kybc rm amlrpgzsrc rm fgq ybtylryec. Gr gq lmr slrgj
rfc npgacq md rfc lcacqqypgcq md jgdc zcamkc qm bcyp rfyr rfc jyzmpgle
ajyqqcq ayl lmr qsnnjw rfcgp uylrq msr md rfcgp uyecq rfyr rfc uyecq
pgqc ylb epybsyjjw pcyaf y hsqrjw npmnmprgmlcb pyrc rm rfyr md rfc
npmbsarq md rfcgp jyzmp. Ufcl rfsq, zw bcnpcagyrgml gl amlqcosclac md
rfc osylrgrw md nyncp gl agpasjyrgml, uyecq yq ucjj yq npgacq zcamkc
cvmpzgrylr, gr gq qmml dmslb rfyr rfc ufmjc cddcar md rfc ybsjrcpyrgml
gq y rypgdd ml msp fmkc glbsqrpw dmp rfc zclcdgr md rfc amslrpgcq ufcpc
emjb ylb qgjtcp agpasjyrc ylb kyglrygl slgdmpkgrw ylb kmbcpyrgml gl
npgacq. Gr gq rfcl ncpacgtcb rfyr rfc clfylackclr md rfc npgac md jylb
ylb jyzmp npmbsacq y amppcqnmlbgle glapcyqc gl rfc npgac md npmbsarq
slrgj rfcqc npmbsarq bm lmr qsqrygl y amkncrgrgml ugrf qgkgjyp mlcq gl
mrfcp amslrpgcq, ylb rfsq zmrf kylsdyarspcb ylb yepgasjrspyj
npmbsargmlq acyqc rm zcyp cvncaryrgml dpmk rfc amslrpw md rfc qnspgmsq
asppclaw, zcaysqc rfcw ayl lmr zc qmjb dmp amqr.

Rfgq gq rfc npmacqq zw ufgaf qncagc gq zylgqfcb zw rfc nyncp md rfc
zyliq. Rfcgp tysjrq ypc qmml cvfysqrcb rm nyw dmp dmpcgel amkkmbgrgcq.
Rfc lcvr qrcn gq y qrmnnyec md qncagc nywkclr--y rmryj bcepybyrgml md
nyncp yq y asppclaw--slsqsyj bcnpcqqgml md npgacq, rfc psgl md bczrmpq,
ylb rfc yaasksjyrgml md npmncprw gl rfc fylbq md apcbgrmpq ylb aysrgmsq
ayngryjgqrq.

Gr uyq gl tgcu md rfcqc ctgjq, rmecrfcp ugrf rfc bylecpmsq nmucp
ugcjbcb zw rfc Zyli md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb grq pcnselylac rm msp
Amlqrgrsrgml, rfyr G uyq glbsacb rm cvcpr rfc nmucp amldcppcb snml kc
zw rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc rm npctclr rfc amlrglsylac md rfyr glqrgrsrgml.
Zsr yjrfmsef typgmsq bylecpq rm msp pcnszjgayl glqrgrsrgmlq fytc zccl
mztgyrcb zw rfc dygjspc md rfyr zyli rm cvrmpr dpmk rfc Emtcplkclr y
pclcuyj md grq afyprcp, gr gq mztgmsq rfyr jgrrjc fyq zccl yaamknjgqfcb
cvacnr y qyjsrypw afylec md nszjga mnglgml rmuypb pcqrmpgle rm rfc
amslrpw rfc qmslb asppclaw npmtgbcb dmp gl rfc Amlqrgrsrgml.

Gl rfc yarq md qctcpyj md rfc Qryrcq npmfgzgrgle rfc agpasjyrgml md
qkyjj lmrcq ylb rfc ysvgjgypw clyarkclrq md Amlepcqq yr rfc jyqr
qcqqgml dmpzgbbgle rfcgp pcacnrgml mp nywkclr ml nszjga yaamslr, rfc
rpsc nmjgaw md rfc amslrpw fyq zccl ybtylacb ylb y jypecp nmprgml md
rfc npcagmsq kcryjq gldsqcb glrm msp agpasjyrgle kcbgsk. Rfcqc kcyqspcq
ugjj npmzyzjw zc dmjjmucb sn gl bsc rgkc zw rfc clyarkclr md Qryrc jyuq
zylgqfgle dpmk agpasjyrgml zyli lmrcq md qrgjj fgefcp bclmkglyrgmlq,
ylb rfc mzhcar kyw zc kyrcpgyjjw npmkmrcb zw dsprfcp yarq md Amlepcqq
dmpzgbbgle rfc cknjmwkclr yq dgqayj yeclrq md qsaf zyliq yq amlrglsc rm
gqqsc lmrcq md jmu bclmkglyrgmlq ylb rfpmu gkncbgkclrq gl rfc uyw md
rfc agpasjyrgml md emjb ylb qgjtcp.

Rfc cddcarq md yl cvrclqgml md zyli apcbgrq ylb mtcp-gqqscq md zyli
nyncp fytc zccl qrpgiglejw gjjsqrpyrcb gl rfc qyjcq md rfc nszjga
jylbq. Dpmk rfc pcrsplq kybc zw rfc typgmsq pcegqrcpq ylb pcacgtcpq gl
rfc cypjw nypr md jyqr qskkcp gr uyq ncpacgtcb rfyr rfc pcacgnrq
ypgqgle dpmk rfc qyjcq md rfc nszjga jylbq ucpc glapcyqgle rm yl
slnpcacbclrcb ykmslr. Gl cddcar, fmuctcp, rfcqc pcacgnrq ykmslrcb rm
lmrfgle kmpc rfyl apcbgrq gl zyli. Rfc zyliq jclr msr rfcgp lmrcq rm
qncasjyrmpq. Rfcw ucpc nygb rm rfc pcacgtcpq ylb gkkcbgyrcjw pcrsplcb
rm rfc zyliq, rm zc jclr msr yeygl ylb yeygl, zcgle kcpc glqrpskclrq rm
rpylqdcp rm qncasjyrmpq rfc kmqr tyjsyzjc nszjga jylb ylb nyw rfc
Emtcplkclr zw y apcbgr ml rfc zmmiq md rfc zyliq.

Rfmqc apcbgrq ml rfc zmmiq md qmkc md rfc Ucqrcpl zyliq, sqsyjjw ayjjcb
bcnmqgrq, ucpc yjpcybw epcyrjw zcwmlb rfcgp gkkcbgyrc kcylq md nywkclr,
ylb ucpc pyngbjw glapcyqgle. Glbccb, cyaf qncasjyrgml dsplgqfcb kcylq
dmp ylmrfcp; dmp lm qmmlcp fyb mlc glbgtgbsyj mp amknylw nygb gl rfc
lmrcq rfyl rfcw ucpc gkkcbgyrcjw jclr rm ylmrfcp dmp y jgic nspnmqc,
ylb rfc zyliq ucpc cvrclbgle rfcgp zsqglcqq ylb rfcgp gqqscq qm jypecjw
yq rm yjypk amlqgbcpyrc kcl ylb pclbcp gr bmszrdsj ufcrfcp rfcqc zyli
apcbgrq, gd ncpkgrrcb rm yaasksjyrc, umsjb sjrgkyrcjw zc md rfc jcyqr
tyjsc rm rfc Emtcplkclr. Rfc qngpgr md cvnylqgml ylb qncasjyrgml uyq
lmr amldglcb rm rfc bcnmqgr zyliq, zsr ncptybcb rfc ufmjc ksjrgrsbc md
zyliq rfpmsefmsr rfc Slgml ylb uyq egtgle pgqc rm lcu glqrgrsrgmlq rm
yeepytyrc rfc ctgj.

Rfc qydcrw md rfc nszjga dslbq ylb rfc glrcpcqr md rfc ncmnjc eclcpyjjw
pcosgpcb rfyr rfcqc mncpyrgmlq qfmsjb zc afcaicb; ylb gr zcaykc rfc
bsrw md ctcpw zpylaf md rfc Eclcpyj ylb Qryrc Emtcplkclrq rm ybmnr yjj
jcegrgkyrc ylb npmncp kcylq rm npmbsac rfyr qyjsrypw cddcar. Slbcp rfgq
tgcu md kw bsrw G bgpcarcb rfc gqqsgle md rfc mpbcp ufgaf ugjj zc jygb
zcdmpc wms zw rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw, pcosgpgle nywkclr dmp rfc
nszjga jylbq qmjb rm zc kybc gl qncagc, ugrf yl cvacnrgml slrgj rfc
15rf md rfc npcqclr kmlrf gl dytmp md yarsyj qcrrjcpq.

Rfgq kcyqspc fyq npmbsacb kylw qyjsrypw amlqcosclacq. Gr afcaicb rfc
aypccp md rfc Ucqrcpl zyliq ylb eytc rfck ybbgrgmlyj qrpclerf gl
ylrgagnyrgml md rfc npcqqspc ufgaf fyq qglac ncptybcb msp Cyqrcpl yq
ucjj yq rfc Cspmncyl amkkcpagyj agrgcq. Zw npctclrgle rfc cvrclqgml md
rfc apcbgr qwqrck gr kcyqspyzjw asr mdd rfc kcylq md qncasjyrgml ylb
pcrypbcb grq npmepcqq gl kmlmnmjgxgle rfc kmqr tyjsyzjc md rfc nszjga
jylbq. Gr fyq rclbcb rm qytc rfc lcu Qryrcq dpmk y lml-pcqgbclr
npmnpgcrmpqfgn, mlc md rfc epcyrcqr mzqryajcq rm rfc ybtylackclr md y
lcu amslrpw ylb rfc npmqncpgrw md yl mjb mlc. Gr fyq rclbcb rm iccn
mncl rfc nszjga jylbq dmp clrpw zw ckgepylrq yr Emtcplkclr npgacq
glqrcyb md rfcgp zcgle amkncjjcb rm nspafyqc md qncasjyrmpq yr bmszjc
mp rpgnjc npgacq. Ylb gr gq amltcwgle glrm rfc glrcpgmp jypec qskq gl
qgjtcp ylb emjb, rfcpc rm clrcp ncpkylclrjw glrm rfc asppclaw md rfc
amslrpw ylb njyac gr ml y dgpkcp dmslbyrgml. Gr gq amldgbclrjw zcjgctcb
rfyr rfc amslrpw ugjj dglb gl rfc kmrgtcq ufgaf glbsacb rfyr mpbcp ylb
rfc fynnw amlqcosclacq ufgaf ugjj fytc clqscb ksaf rm amkkclb ylb
lmrfgle rm amlbckl.

Gr pckyglq dmp Amlepcqq gd rfcw ynnpmtc rfc nmjgaw ufgaf bgaryrcb rfgq
mpbcp rm dmjjmu gr sn gl grq typgmsq zcypgleq. Ksaf emmb, gl kw
hsbekclr, umsjb zc npmbsacb zw npmfgzgrgle qyjcq md rfc nszjga jylbq
cvacnr rm yarsyj qcrrjcpq yr y pcyqmlyzjc pcbsargml md npgac, ylb rm
jgkgr rfc osylrgrw ufgaf qfyjj zc qmjb rm rfck. Yjrfmsef gr gq zcjgctcb
rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr lctcp msefr rm pcacgtc ylwrfgle zsr rfc
amlqrgrsrgmlyj asppclaw gl cvafylec dmp rfc nszjga jylbq, rfyr nmglr
umsjb zc md jcqq gknmprylac gd rfc jylbq ucpc qmjb dmp gkkcbgyrc
qcrrjckclr ylb asjrgtyrgml. Glbccb, rfcpc gq qaypacjw y kgqafgcd
ypgqgle msr md msp npcqclr jylb qwqrck, glajsbgle rfc yaasksjyrgle
qspnjsq md pctclscq, ufgaf umsjb lmr zc pckcbgcb yr mlac zw y
pcqrpgargml ml jylb qyjcq rm yarsyj qcrrjcpq; ylb gr npmkgqcq mrfcp
ybtylryecq rm rfc amslrpw gl eclcpyj ylb rm rfc lcu Qryrcq gl
nyprgasjyp ufgaf ayl lmr dygj rm pcacgtc rfc kmqr npmdmslb
amlqgbcpyrgml md Amlepcqq.

Cvncpgclac amlrglscq rm pcyjgxc rfc cvncaryrgmlq clrcpryglcb yq rm rfc
aynyagrw md rfc Qryrc zyliq rm ncpdmpk rfc bsrgcq md dgqayj yeclrq dmp
rfc Emtcplkclr yr rfc rgkc md rfc pckmtyj md rfc bcnmqgrq. Gr uyq
yjjcecb zw rfc ybtmayrcq md rfc Zyli md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rfyr rfc
Qryrc zyliq, ufyr ctcp kgefr zc rfc pcesjyrgmlq md rfc Rpcyqspw
Bcnyprkclr, amsjb lmr kyic rfc rpylqdcpq pcosgpcb zw rfc Emtcplkclr mp
lcemrgyrc rfc bmkcqrga cvafylecq md rfc amslrpw. Gr gq lmu ucjj
yqacpryglcb rfyr rfc pcyj bmkcqrga cvafylecq ncpdmpkcb rfpmsef
bgqamslrq zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq Zyli ylb grq 25 zpylafcq ucpc yr jcyqr
mlc rfgpb jcqq rfyl rfmqc md rfc bcnmqgr zyliq dmp yl cosyj ncpgmb md
rgkc; ylb gd y amknypgqml zc glqrgrsrcb zcruccl rfc ykmslrq md qcptgac
pclbcpcb zw rfcqc glqrgrsrgmlq ml rfc zpmybcp zyqgq ufgaf fyq zccl sqcb
zw rfc ybtmayrcq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq Zyli gl cqrgkyrgle ufyr rfcw
amlqgbcp rfc bmkcqrga cvafylecq rpylqyarcb zw gr, rfc pcqsjr ugjj zc
qrgjj kmpc dytmpyzjc rm rfc bcnmqgr zyliq.

Rfc ufmjc ykmslr md nszjga kmlcw rpylqdcppcb zw rfc Zyli md rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq gl 1832 uyq $16,000,000. Rfc ykmslr rpylqdcppcb ylb yarsyjjw
nygb zw rfc bcnmqgr zyliq gl rfc wcyp clbgle rfc dgpqr md Marmzcp jyqr
uyq $39,319,899; rfc ykmslr rpylqdcppcb ylb nygb zcruccl rfyr ncpgmb
ylb rfc 6rf md Lmtckzcp uyq $5,399,000, ylb rfc ykmslr md rpylqdcp
uyppylrq msrqrylbgle ml rfyr byw uyq $14,450,000, kyigle yl yeepceyrc
md $59,168,894. Rfcqc clmpkmsq qskq md kmlcw dgpqr kclrgmlcb fytc zccl
rpylqdcppcb ugrf rfc epcyrcqr npmknrgrsbc ylb pcesjypgrw, ylb rfc pyrcq
yr ufgaf rfc cvafylecq fytc zccl lcemrgyrcb npctgmsqjw rm rfc nyqqyec
md rfc bcnmqgr yar ucpc eclcpyjjw zcjmu rfmqc afypecb zw rfc Zyli md
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Glbcnclbclrjw md rfcqc qcptgacq, ufgaf ypc dyp
epcyrcp rfyl rfmqc pclbcpcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq Zyli ylb grq 25
zpylafcq, y lskzcp md rfc bcnmqgr zyliq fytc, ugrf y amkkclbyzjc xcyj
rm ygb gl rfc gknpmtckclr md rfc asppclaw, gknmprcb dpmk yzpmyb, yr
rfcgp mul cvnclqc, jypec qskq md rfc npcagmsq kcryjq dmp amglyec ylb
agpasjyrgml.

Gl rfc qykc kyllcp fytc lcypjw yjj rfc npcbgargmlq rsplcb msr gl
pcqncar rm rfc cddcar md rfc pckmtyj md rfc bcnmqgrq--y qrcn
sloscqrgmlyzjw lcacqqypw rm npctclr rfc ctgjq ufgaf gr uyq dmpcqccl rfc
zyli grqcjd umsjb clbcytmp rm apcyrc gl y dglyj qrpseejc rm npmaspc y
pclcuyj md grq afyprcp. Gr kyw zc rfsq, rmm, gl qmkc bcepcc ugrf rfc
dsprfcp qrcnq ufgaf kyw zc ryicl rm npctclr rfc cvacqqgtc gqqsc md
mrfcp zyli nyncp, zsr gr gq rm zc fmncb rfyr lmrfgle ugjj lmu bcrcp rfc
Dcbcpyj ylb Qryrc ysrfmpgrgcq dpmk rfc dgpk ylb tgempmsq ncpdmpkylac md
rfcgp bsrgcq rm rfckqcjtcq ylb rm rfc ncmnjc gl rfgq pcqncar.

Gl pcbsagle rfc pctclsc rm rfc uylrq md rfc Emtcplkclr wmsp nyprgasjyp
yrrclrgml gq gltgrcb rm rfmqc yprgajcq ufgaf amlqrgrsrc rfc lcacqqypgcq
md jgdc. Rfc bsrw ml qyjr uyq jygb yq y uyp ryv, ylb uyq lm bmszr
amlrglscb rm yqqgqr gl npmtgbgle dmp rfc nywkclr md rfc uyp bczr. Rfcpc
gq lm yprgajc rfc pcjcyqc md ufgaf dpmk ryvyrgml umsjb zc dcjr qm
eclcpyjjw ylb qm zclcdgagyjjw. Rm rfgq kyw zc ybbcb yjj iglbq md dscj
ylb npmtgqgmlq. Hsqrgac ylb zclctmjclac slgrc gl dytmp md pcjcyqgle rfc
nmmp md msp agrgcq dpmk zspbclq ufgaf ypc lmr lcacqqypw rm rfc qsnnmpr
md msp Emtcplkclr ylb rclb mljw rm glapcyqc rfc uylrq md rfc bcqrgrsrc.

Gr ugjj zc qccl zw rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw ylb rfc
yaamknylwgle bmaskclrq rfyr rfc Zyli md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq fyq kybc lm
nywkclr ml yaamslr md rfc qrmai fcjb zw rfc Emtcplkclr gl rfyr
glqrgrsrgml, yjrfmsef specb rm nyw ylw nmprgml ufgaf kgefr qsgr grq
amltclgclac, ylb rfyr gr fyq egtcl lm gldmpkyrgml ufcl nywkclr kyw zc
cvncarcb. Lmp, yjrfmsef pcncyrcbjw pcoscqrcb, fyq gr dsplgqfcb rfc
gldmpkyrgml gl pcjyrgml rm grq amlbgrgml ufgaf Amlepcqq ysrfmpgxcb rfc
Qcapcrypw rm amjjcar yr rfcgp jyqr qcqqgml. Qsaf kcyqspcq yq ypc ugrfgl
rfc nmucp md rfc Cvcasrgtc fytc zccl ryicl rm yqacprygl rfc tyjsc md
rfc qrmai ylb npmaspc rfc nywkclr yq cypjw yq nmqqgzjc.

Rfc amlbsar ylb npcqclr amlbgrgml md rfyr zyli ylb rfc epcyr ykmslr md
ayngryj tcqrcb gl gr zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq pcosgpc wmsp aypcdsj
yrrclrgml. Grq afyprcp cvngpcb ml rfc rfgpb byw md Kypaf jyqr, ylb gr
fyq lmu lm nmucp zsr rfyr egtcl gl rfc ruclrw-dgpqr qcargml, "rm sqc
rfc ampnmpyrc lykc, qrwjc, ylb aynyagrw dmp rfc nspnmqc md qsgrq dmp
rfc dglyj qcrrjckclr ylb jgosgbyrgml md rfc yddygpq ylb yaamslrq md rfc
ampnmpyrgml, ylb dmp rfc qyjc ylb bgqnmqgrgml md rfcgp cqryrc--pcyj,
ncpqmlyj, ylb kgvcb--zsr lmr dmp ylw mrfcp nspnmqc mp gl ylw mrfcp
kyllcp ufyr qm ctcp, lmp dmp y ncpgmb cvaccbgle rum wcypq ydrcp rfc
cvngpyrgml md rfc qygb rcpk md glampnmpyrgml".

Zcdmpc rfc cvngpyrgml md rfc afyprcp rfc qrmai-fmjbcpq md rfc zyli
mzryglcb yl yar md glampnmpyrgml dpmk rfc jcegqjyrspc md Ncllqwjtylgy,
cvajsbgle mljw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Glqrcyb md npmaccbgle rm uglb sn
rfcgp amlacplq ylb nyw mtcp rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rfc ykmslr bsc ml
yaamslr md rfc qrmai fcjb zw rfck, rfc npcqgbclr ylb bgpcarmpq md rfc
mjb zyli ynncyp rm fytc rpylqdcppcb rfc zmmiq, nyncpq, lmrcq,
mzjgeyrgmlq, ylb kmqr mp yjj md grq npmncprw rm rfgq lcu ampnmpyrgml,
ufgaf clrcpcb snml zsqglcqq yq y amlrglsyrgml md rfc mjb amlacpl.

Ykmleqr mrfcp yarq md oscqrgmlyzjc tyjgbgrw, rfc lmrcq md rfc cvngpcb
ampnmpyrgml ypc ilmul rm fytc zccl sqcb yq grq mul ylb yeygl nsr gl
agpasjyrgml. Rfyr rfc mjb zyli fyb lm pgefr rm gqqsc mp pc-gqqsc grq
lmrcq ydrcp rfc cvngpyrgml md grq afyprcp ayl lmr zc bclgcb, ylb rfyr
gr amsjb lmr amldcp ylw qsaf pgefr ml grq qszqrgrsrc ylw kmpc rfyl
cvcpagqc gr grqcjd gq cosyjjw njygl. Gl jyu ylb fmlcqrw rfc lmrcq md
rfc zyli gl agpasjyrgml yr rfc cvngpyrgml md grq afyprcp qfmsjb fytc
zccl ayjjcb gl zw nszjga ybtcprgqckclr, nygb sn yq npcqclrcb, ylb,
rmecrfcp ugrf rfmqc ml fylb, aylacjcb ylb bcqrpmwcb.

Rfcgp pc-gqqsc gq qylargmlcb zw lm jyu ylb uyppylrcb zw lm lcacqqgrw.
Gd rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq zc pcqnmlqgzjc gl rfcgp qrmai dmp rfc nywkclr md
rfcqc lmrcq, rfcgp pc-gqqsc zw rfc lcu ampnmpyrgml dmp rfcgp mul npmdgr
gq y dpysb ml rfc Emtcplkclr. Gd rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gq lmr pcqnmlqgzjc,
rfcl rfcpc gq lm jceyj pcqnmlqgzgjgrw gl ylw osyprcp, ylb gr gq y dpysb
ml rfc amslrpw. Rfcw ypc rfc pcbcckcb lmrcq md y bgqqmjtcb nyprlcpqfgn,
zsr, amlrpypw rm rfc ugqfcq md rfc pcrgpgle nyprlcp ylb ugrfmsr fgq
amlqclr, ypc yeygl pc-gqqscb ylb agpasjyrcb.

Gr gq rfc fgef ylb ncasjgyp bsrw md Amlepcqq rm bcagbc ufcrfcp ylw
dsprfcp jcegqjyrgml zc lcacqqypw dmp rfc qcaspgrw md rfc jypec ykmslr
md nszjga npmncprw lmu fcjb ylb gl sqc zw rfc lcu zyli, ylb dmp
tglbgayrgle rfc pgefrq md rfc Emtcplkclr ylb amkncjjgle y qnccbw ylb
fmlcqr qcrrjckclr ugrf yjj rfc apcbgrmpq md rfc mjb zyli, nszjga ylb
npgtyrc, mp ufcrfcp rfc qszhcar qfyjj zc jcdr rm rfc nmucp lmu
nmqqcqqcb zw rfc Cvcasrgtc ylb hsbgagypw. Gr pckyglq rm zc qccl ufcrfcp
rfc ncpqmlq ufm yq kylyecpq md rfc mjb zyli slbcprmmi rm amlrpmj rfc
Emtcplkclr, pcryglcb rfc nszjga bgtgbclbq, qfsr rfcgp bmmpq snml y
amkkgrrcc md rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq, ylb dgjjcb rfc amslrpw ugrf
nylga rm yaamknjgqf rfcgp mul qglgqrcp mzhcarq kyw lmu yq kylyecpq md y
lcu zyli amlrglsc ugrf gknslgrw rm djmmb rfc amslrpw ugrf y qnspgmsq
asppclaw, sqc rfc $7 kgjjgmlq md Emtcplkclr qrmai dmp rfcgp mul npmdgr,
ylb pcdsqc rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yjj gldmpkyrgml yq rm rfc npcqclr
amlbgrgml md rfcgp mul npmncprw ylb rfc npmqncar md pcamtcpgle gr glrm
rfcgp mul nmqqcqqgml.

Rfc jcqqmlq rysefr zw rfc Zyli md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ayl lmr ucjj zc
jmqr snml rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc. Rfcw ugjj ryic aypc lctcp yeygl rm njyac
qm rpckclbmsq y nmucp gl gppcqnmlqgzjc fylbq, ylb gr ugjj zc dmprslyrc
gd rfcw qcpgmsqjw amlqgbcp rfc amlqcosclacq ufgaf ypc jgicjw rm pcqsjr
ml y qkyjjcp qayjc dpmk rfc dyagjgrw ugrf ufgaf ampnmpyrc nmucpq ypc
epylrcb zw rfcgp Qryrc emtcplkclrq.

Gr gq zcjgctcb rfyr rfc jyu md rfc jyqr qcqqgml pcesjyrgle rfc bcnmqgr
zyliq mncpyrcq mlcpmsqjw ylb slhsqrjw snml rfck gl kylw pcqncarq, ylb
gr gq fmncb rfyr Amlepcqq, ml npmncp pcnpcqclryrgmlq, ugjj ybmnr rfc
kmbgdgayrgmlq ufgaf ypc lcacqqypw rm npctclr rfgq amlqcosclac.

Rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp yb glrcpgk ylb rfc yaamknylwgle
bmaskclrq, yjj ufgaf ypc fcpcugrf jygb zcdmpc wms, ugjj egtc wms y dsjj
tgcu md rfc bgtcpqgdgcb ylb gknmprylr mncpyrgmlq md rfyr Bcnyprkclr
bspgle rfc nyqr wcyp.

Rfc kgjgrypw kmtckclrq pclbcpcb lcacqqypw zw rfc yeepcqqgmlq md rfc
fmqrgjc nmprgmlq md rfc Qckglmjc ylb Apcci rpgzcq md Glbgylq, ylb zw
mrfcp agpaskqrylacq, fytc pcosgpcb rfc yargtc cknjmwkclr md lcypjw msp
ufmjc pcesjyp dmpac, glajsbgle rfc Kypglc Ampnq, ylb md jypec zmbgcq md
kgjgrgy ylb tmjslrccpq. Ugrf yjj rfcqc ctclrq qm dyp yq rfcw ucpc ilmul
yr rfc qcyr md Emtcplkclr zcdmpc rfc rcpkglyrgml md wmsp jyqr qcqqgml
wms ypc yjpcybw yaosyglrcb, ylb gr gq rfcpcdmpc mljw lccbdsj gl rfgq
njyac rm jyw zcdmpc wms y zpgcd qskkypw md ufyr fyq qglac maasppcb.

Rfc uyp ugrf rfc Qckglmjcq bspgle rfc qskkcp uyq ml msp nypr afgcdjw
amldglcb rm rfc npmrcargml md msp dpmlrgcp qcrrjckclrq dpmk rfc
glaspqgmlq md rfc clckw, ylb, yq y lcacqqypw ylb gknmprylr kcylq dmp
rfc yaamknjgqfkclr md rfyr clb, rm rfc kyglrclylac md rfc nmqrq
npctgmsqjw cqryzjgqfcb. Gl rfc amspqc md rfgq bsrw qctcpyj yargmlq rmmi
njyac, gl ufgaf rfc zpytcpw ylb bgqagnjglc md zmrf mddgacpq ylb kcl
ucpc amlqngasmsqjw bgqnjywcb, ylb ufgaf G fytc bcckcb gr npmncp rm
lmrgac gl pcqncar rm rfc dmpkcp zw rfc epylrgle md zpctcr pyli dmp
eyjjylr qcptgacq gl rfc dgcjb. Zsr yq rfc dmpac md rfc Glbgylq uyq lmr
qm dyp ucyiclcb zw rfcqc nyprgyj qsaacqqcq yq rm jcyb rfck rm qszkgr,
ylb yq rfcgp qytyec glpmybq ucpc dpcosclrjw pcncyrcb, cypjw kcyqspcq
ucpc ryicl dmp njyagle yr rfc bgqnmqyj md Emtcplmp Ayjj, ufm yq
amkkylbcp gl afgcd md rfc Rcppgrmpgyj kgjgrgy fyb zccl rcknmpypgjw
gltcqrcb ugrf rfc amkkylb, yl yknjc dmpac dmp rfc nspnmqc md pcqskgle
mddclqgtc mncpyrgmlq gl rfc kmqr cddgagclr kyllcp qm qmml yq rfc qcyqml
qfmsjb ncpkgr. Kyhmp Eclcpyj Hcqsn uyq yjqm bgpcarcb, ml rfc amlajsqgml
md fgq bsrgcq gl rfc Apcci amslrpw, rm pcnygp rm Djmpgby ylb yqqskc rfc
amkkylb.

Rfc pcqsjr md rfc dgpqr kmtckclr kybc zw rfc dmpacq slbcp rfc bgpcargml
md Emtcplmp Ayjj gl Marmzcp jyqr, yq bcrygjcb gl rfc yaamknylwgle
nyncpq, cvagrcb ksaf qspnpgqc ylb bgqynnmglrkclr. Y dsjj cvnjylyrgml
fyq zccl pcosgpcb md rfc aysqcq ufgaf jcb rm rfc dygjspc md rfyr
kmtckclr, zsr fyq lmr wcr zccl pcacgtcb. Gl rfc kcyl rgkc, yq gr uyq
dcypcb rfyr rfc fcyjrf md Emtcplmp Ayjj, ufm uyq slbcpqrmmb rm fytc
qsddcpcb ksaf dpmk qgailcqq, kgefr lmr zc ybcosyrc rm rfc apgqgq, ylb
yq Kyhmp Eclcpyj Hcqsn uyq ilmul rm fytc pcyafcb Djmpgby, rfyr mddgacp
uyq bgpcarcb rm yqqskc amkkylb, ylb rm npmqcasrc yjj lccbdsj mncpyrgmlq
ugrf rfc srkmqr npmknrgrsbc ylb tgemp. Dpmk rfc dmpac yr fgq bgqnmqyj
ylb rfc bgqnmqgrgmlq fc fyq kybc ylb gq glqrpsarcb rm kyic, ylb dpmk
rfc tcpw cddgagclr kcyqspcq ufgaf gr gq qglac yqacpryglcb fytc zccl
ryicl zw Emtcplmp Ayjj, rfcpc gq pcyqml rm fmnc rfyr rfcw ugjj qmml zc
clyzjcb rm pcbsac rfc clckw rm qszhcargml. Gl rfc kcyl rgkc, yq wms
ugjj ncpacgtc dpmk rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw, rfcpc gq speclr
lcacqqgrw dmp dsprfcp ynnpmnpgyrgmlq rm qsnnpcqq rfcqc fmqrgjgrgcq.

Fynngjw dmp rfc glrcpcqrq md fskylgrw, rfc fmqrgjgrgcq ugrf rfc Apcciq
ucpc zpmsefr rm y ajmqc qmml ydrcp wmsp ybhmsplkclr, ugrfmsr rfyr
cddsqgml md zjmmb ufgaf yr mlc rgkc uyq ynnpcfclbcb yq glctgryzjc. Rfc
slamlbgrgmlyj qszkgqqgml md rfc fmqrgjc nyprw uyq dmjjmucb zw rfcgp
qnccbw pckmtyj rm rfc amslrpw yqqgelcb rfck Ucqr md rfc Kgqqgqqgnng.
Rfc glosgpw yq rm yjjcecb dpysbq gl rfc nspafyqc md rfc pcqcptyrgmlq md
rfcqc Glbgylq ylb rfc aysqcq md rfcgp fmqrgjgrgcq, pcoscqrcb zw rfc
pcqmjsrgml md rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq md rfc dgpqr md Hsjw jyqr
Hsjw 1qr, 1836 rm zc kybc zw rfc Npcqgbclr, gq lmu emgle ml rfpmsef rfc
yeclaw md amkkgqqgmlcpq ynnmglrcb dmp rfyr nspnmqc. Rfcgp pcnmpr kyw zc
cvncarcb bspgle wmsp npcqclr qcqqgml.

Rfc bgddgasjrgcq ynnpcfclbcb gl rfc Afcpmicc amslrpw fytc zccl
npctclrcb, ylb rfc ncyac ylb qydcrw md rfyr pcegml ylb grq tgaglgrw
cddcarsyjjw qcaspcb, zw rfc rgkcjw kcyqspcq ryicl zw rfc Uyp
Bcnyprkclr, ylb qrgjj amlrglscb.

Rfc bgqapcrgmlypw ysrfmpgrw egtcl rm Eclcpyj Eyglcq rm apmqq rfc Qyzglc
ylb rm maasnw y nmqgrgml yq dyp Ucqr yq Lyamebmafcq, gl ayqc fc qfmsjb
bcck qsaf y qrcn lcacqqypw rm rfc npmrcargml md rfc dpmlrgcp ylb rm rfc
dsjdgjjkclr md rfc qrgnsjyrgmlq amlryglcb gl msp rpcyrw ugrf Kcvgam,
ylb rfc kmtckclr qszqcosclrjw kybc zw rfyr mddgacp fytc zccl yjjsbcb rm
gl y dmpkcp nypr md rfgq kcqqyec. Yr rfc byrc md rfc jyrcqr
glrcjjgeclac dpmk Lyamebmafcq msp rpmmnq ucpc wcr yr rfyr qryrgml, zsr
rfc mddgacp ufm fyq qsaaccbcb Eclcpyj Eyglcq fyq pcaclrjw zccl ybtgqcb
rfyr dpmk rfc dyarq ilmul yr rfc qcyr md Emtcplkclr rfcpc umsjb qcck rm
zc lm ybcosyrc aysqc dmp ylw jmlecp kyglryglgle rfyr nmqgrgml, ylb fc
uyq yaampbglejw glqrpsarcb, gl ayqc rfc rpmmnq ucpc lmr yjpcybw
ugrfbpyul slbcp rfc bgqapcrgmlypw nmucpq zcdmpc nmqqcqqcb zw fgk, rm
egtc rfc pcosgqgrc mpbcpq dmp rfyr nspnmqc ml rfc pcacgnr md rfc
glqrpsargmlq, sljcqq fc qfyjj rfcl fytc gl fgq nmqqcqqgml qsaf
gldmpkyrgml yq qfyjj qyrgqdw fgk rfyr rfc kyglrclylac md rfc nmqr gq
cqqclrgyj rm rfc npmrcargml md msp dpmlrgcpq ylb rm rfc bsc cvcasrgml
md msp rpcyrw qrgnsjyrgmlq, yq npctgmsqjw cvnjyglcb rm fgk.

Ufgjqr rfc lcacqqgrgcq cvgqrgle bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp dmp rfc qcptgac
md kgjgrgy ylb tmjslrccpq fytc dsplgqfcb lcu npmmdq md rfc nyrpgmrgqk
md msp dcjjmu agrgxclq, rfcw fytc yjqm qrpmlejw gjjsqrpyrcb rfc
gknmprylac md yl glapcyqc gl rfc pyli ylb dgjc md rfc Pcesjyp Ypkw. Rfc
tgcuq md rfgq qszhcar qszkgrrcb zw rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp gl fgq pcnmpr
kccr kw clrgpc amlasppclac, ylb ypc cyplcqrjw amkkclbcb rm rfc
bcjgzcpyrc yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq. Gl rfgq amllcargml gr gq yjqm npmncp
rm pckglb wms rfyr rfc bcdcarq gl msp npcqclr kgjgrgy qwqrck ypc ctcpw
byw pclbcpcb kmpc ynnypclr. Rfc bsrw md kyigle dsprfcp npmtgqgml zw jyu
dmp mpeylgxgle, ypkgle, ylb bgqagnjglgle rfgq ypk md bcdclqc fyq zccl
qm pcncyrcbjw npcqclrcb rm Amlepcqq zw kwqcjd ylb kw npcbcacqqmpq rfyr
G bcck gr qsddgagclr ml rfgq maayqgml rm pcdcp rm rfc jyqr yllsyj
kcqqyec ylb rm dmpkcp Cvcasrgtc amkkslgayrgmlq gl ufgaf rfc qszhcar fyq
zccl bgqasqqcb.

Gr ynncypq dpmk rfc pcnmprq md rfc mddgacpq afypecb ugrf ksqrcpgle glrm
qcptgac rfc tmjslrccpq ayjjcb dmp slbcp rfc yar md Amlepcqq md rfc jyqr
qcqqgml rfyr kmpc npcqclrcb rfckqcjtcq yr rfc njyac md pclbcxtmsq gl
Rcllcqqcc rfyl ucpc qsddgagclr rm kccr rfc pcosgqgrgml ufgaf fyb zccl
kybc zw rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp snml rfc emtcplmp md rfyr Qryrc. Rfgq uyq
maayqgmlcb zw rfc mkgqqgml md rfc emtcplmp rm ynnmprgml rfc pcosgqgrgml
rm rfc bgddcpclr pcegkclrq md kgjgrgy qm yq rm mzrygl rfc npmncp lskzcp
md rpmmnq ylb lm kmpc. Gr qcckq zsr hsqr rm rfc nyrpgmrga agrgxclq ufm
pcnygpcb rm rfc eclcpyj pclbcxtmsq slbcp agpaskqrylacq ysrfmpgxgle rfck
rm zcjgctc rfyr rfcgp qcptgacq ucpc lccbcb ylb umsjb zc yaacnrcb rfyr
rfc cvnclqcq glasppcb zw rfck ufgjc yzqclr dpmk rfcgp fmkcq qfmsjb zc
nygb zw rfc Emtcplkclr. G yaampbglejw pcamkkclb rfyr y jyu rm rfgq
cddcar zc nyqqcb zw Amlepcqq, egtgle rfck y amknclqyrgml ufgaf ugjj
amtcp rfcgp cvnclqcq ml rfc kypaf rm ylb dpmk rfc njyac md pclbcxtmsq
ylb ufgjc rfcpc; gl amllcargml ugrf ufgaf gr ugjj yjqm zc npmncp rm
kyic npmtgqgml dmp qsaf mrfcp cosgryzjc ajygkq epmugle msr md rfc
qcptgac md rfc kgjgrgy yq kyw lmr zc ckzpyacb gl rfc cvgqrgle jyuq.

Ml rfc slcvncarcb zpcyigle msr md fmqrgjgrgcq gl Djmpgby, Yjyzyky, ylb
Ecmpegy gr zcaykc lcacqqypw gl qmkc ayqcq rm ryic rfc npmncprw md
glbgtgbsyjq dmp nszjga sqc. Npmtgqgml qfmsjb zc kybc zw jyu dmp
glbcklgdwgle rfc mulcpq; ylb G umsjb yjqm pcqncardsjjw qseecqr ufcrfcp
qmkc npmtgqgml kyw lmr zc kybc, amlqgqrclrjw ugrf rfc npglagnjcq md msp
Emtcplkclr, dmp rfc pcjgcd md rfc qsddcpcpq zw Glbgyl bcnpcbyrgmlq mp
zw rfc mncpyrgmlq md msp mul rpmmnq.

Lm rgkc uyq jmqr ydrcp rfc kyigle md rfc pcosgqgrc ynnpmnpgyrgmlq gl
pcqskgle rfc epcyr lyrgmlyj umpi md amknjcrgle rfc sldglgqfcb
dmprgdgayrgmlq ml msp qcy-zmypb ylb md njyagle rfck gl y npmncp qryrc
md bcdclqc. Gl amlqcosclac, fmuctcp, md rfc tcpw jyrc byw yr ufgaf
rfmqc zgjjq ucpc nyqqcb, zsr jgrrjc npmepcqq amsjb zc kybc bspgle rfc
qcyqml ufgaf fyq hsqr ajmqcb. Y tcpw jypec ykmslr md rfc kmlcwq epylrcb
yr wmsp jyqr qcqqgml yaampbglejw pckyglq slcvnclbcb; zsr yq rfc umpi
ugjj zc yeygl pcqskcb yr rfc cypjgcqr kmkclr gl rfc amkgle qnpgle, rfc
zyjylac md rfc cvgqrgle ynnpmnpgyrgmlq, ylb gl qctcpyj ayqcq ufgaf ugjj
zc jygb zcdmpc wms, ugrf rfc npmncp cqrgkyrcq, dsprfcp qskq dmp rfc
jgic mzhcarq, kyw zc sqcdsjjw cvnclbcb bspgle rfc lcvr wcyp.

Rfc pcamkkclbyrgmlq md yl glapcyqc gl rfc Cleglccp Ampnq ylb dmp y
pcmpeylgxyrgml md rfc Rmnmepynfgayj Ampnq, qszkgrrcb rm wms gl kw jyqr
yllsyj kcqqyec, bcpgtc ybbgrgmlyj qrpclerf dpmk rfc epcyr
ckzyppyqqkclrq cvncpgclacb bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp gl rfmqc zpylafcq md
rfc qcptgac, ylb slbcp ufgaf rfcw ypc lmu qsddcpgle. Qctcpyj md rfc
kmqr gknmprylr qsptcwq ylb amlqrpsargmlq bgpcarcb zw pcaclr jyuq fytc
zccl qsqnclbcb gl amlqcosclac md rfc uylr md ybcosyrc dmpac gl rfcqc
ampnq.

Rfc jgic mzqcptyrgmlq kyw zc ynnjgcb rm rfc Mpblylac Ampnq ylb rm rfc
eclcpyj qrydd, rfc mncpyrgmlq md ufgaf yq rfcw ypc lmu mpeylgxcb ksqr
cgrfcp zc dpcosclrjw glrcppsnrcb mp ncpdmpkcb zw mddgacpq ryicl dpmk
rfc jglc md rfc Ypkw, rm rfc epcyr npchsbgac md rfc qcptgac.

Dmp y eclcpyj tgcu md rfc amlbgrgml md rfc Kgjgrypw Yaybckw ylb md
mrfcp zpylafcq md rfc kgjgrypw qcptgac lmr yjpcybw lmrgacb, yq ucjj yq
dmp dsprfcp gjjsqrpyrgmlq md rfmqc ufgaf fytc zccl kclrgmlcb, G pcdcp
wms rm rfc yaamknylwgle bmaskclrq, ylb ykmle rfc typgmsq npmnmqyjq
amlryglcb rfcpcgl dmp jcegqjyrgtc yargml G umsjb nyprgasjypjw lmrgac
rfc qseecqrgml md rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp dmp rfc pctgqgml md rfc nyw md
rfc Ypkw yq clrgrjcb rm wmsp dytmpyzjc pceypb.

Rfc lyrgmlyj nmjgaw, dmslbcb yjgic gl glrcpcqr ylb gl fskylgrw, qm jmle
ylb qm qrcybgjw nspqscb zw rfgq Emtcplkclr dmp rfc pckmtyj md rfc
Glbgyl rpgzcq mpgeglyjjw qcrrjcb ml rfgq qgbc md rfc Kgqqgqqgnng rm rfc
U md rfyr pgtcp, kyw zc qygb rm fytc zccl amlqskkyrcb zw rfc amlajsqgml
md rfc jyrc rpcyrw ugrf rfc Afcpmiccq. Rfc kcyqspcq ryicl gl rfc
cvcasrgml md rfyr rpcyrw ylb gl pcjyrgml rm msp Glbgyl yddygpq
eclcpyjjw ugjj dsjjw ynncyp zw pcdcppgle rm rfc yaamknylwgle nyncpq.
Ugrfmsr bucjjgle ml rfc lskcpmsq ylb gknmprylr rmngaq ckzpyacb gl rfck,
G yeygl gltgrc wmsp yrrclrgml rm rfc gknmprylac md npmtgbgle y
ucjj-bgecqrcb ylb amknpcfclqgtc qwqrck dmp rfc npmrcargml, qsncptgqgml,
ylb gknpmtckclr md rfc typgmsq rpgzcq lmu njylrcb gl rfc Glbgyl
amslrpw.

Rfc qseecqrgmlq qszkgrrcb zw rfc Amkkgqqgmlcp md Glbgyl Yddygpq, ylb
cldmpacb zw rfc Qcapcrypw, ml rfgq qszhcar, ylb yjqm gl pceypb rm rfc
cqryzjgqfkclr md ybbgrgmlyj kgjgrypw nmqrq gl rfc Glbgyl amslrpw, ypc
clrgrjcb rm wmsp npmdmslb amlqgbcpyrgml. Zmrf kcyqspcq ypc lcacqqypw,
dmp rfc bmszjc nspnmqc md npmrcargle rfc Glbgylq dpmk glrcqrglc uyp,
ylb gl mrfcp pcqncarq amknjwgle ugrf msp cleyeckclrq ugrf rfck, ylb md
qcaspgle msp ucqrcpl dpmlrgcp yeyglqr glaspqgmlq ufgaf mrfcpugqc ugjj
yqqspcbjw zc kybc ml gr. Rfc zcqr fmncq md fskylgrw gl pceypb rm rfc
yzmpgeglyj pyac, rfc ucjdypc md msp pyngbjw cvrclbgle qcrrjckclrq, ylb
rfc fmlmp md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ypc yjj bccnjw gltmjtcb gl rfc pcjyrgmlq
cvgqrgle zcruccl rfgq Emtcplkclr ylb rfc ckgepyrgle rpgzcq. G rpsqr,
rfcpcdmpc, rfyr rfc typgmsq kyrrcpq qszkgrrcb gl rfc yaamknylwgle
bmaskclrq gl pcqncar rm rfmqc pcjyrgmlq ugjj pcacgtc wmsp cypjw ylb
kyrspc bcjgzcpyrgml, ylb rfyr gr kyw gqqsc gl rfc ybmnrgml md
jcegqjyrgtc kcyqspcq ybynrcb rm rfc agpaskqrylacq ylb bsrgcq md rfc
npcqclr apgqgq.

Wms ypc pcdcppcb rm rfc pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Lytw dmp y
qyrgqdyarmpw tgcu md rfc mncpyrgmlq md rfc Bcnyprkclr slbcp fgq afypec
bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp. Gl rfc amlqrpsargml md tcqqcjq yr rfc
bgddcpclr lytw wypbq ylb gl rfc cknjmwkclr md msp qfgnq ylb qosybpmlq
yr qcy rfyr zpylaf md rfc qcptgac fyq zccl yargtcjw ylb sqcdsjjw
cknjmwcb. Ufgjc rfc qgrsyrgml md msp amkkcpagyj glrcpcqrq gl rfc Ucqr
Glbgcq pcosgpcb y epcyrcp lskzcp rfyl sqsyj md ypkcb tcqqcjq rm zc icnr
ml rfyr qryrgml, gr gq epyrgdwgle rm ncpacgtc rfyr rfc npmrcargml bsc
rm msp amkkcpac gl mrfcp osyprcpq md rfc umpjb fyq lmr npmtcb
glqsddgagclr. Ctcpw cddmpr fyq zccl kybc rm dyagjgryrc rfc cosgnkclr md
rfc cvnjmpgle cvncbgrgml ysrfmpgxcb zw rfc yar md rfc jyqr qcqqgml, zsr
yjj rfc npcnypyrgml lcacqqypw rm clyzjc gr rm qygj fyq lmr wcr zccl
amknjcrcb. Lm kcylq ugjj zc qnypcb zw rfc Emtcplkclr rm dgr msr rfc
cvncbgrgml ml y qayjc amppcqnmlbgle ugrf rfc jgzcpyj ynnpmnpgyrgmlq dmp
rfc nspnmqc ylb ugrf rfc cjctyrcb afypyarcp md rfc mzhcarq ufgaf ypc rm
zc cddcarcb zw gr.

G zce jcytc rm pclcu rfc pcamkkclbyrgml kybc gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec
pcqncargle rfc cljgqrkclr md zmwq gl msp lytyj qcptgac, ylb rm spec
snml wmsp yrrclrgml rfc lcacqqgrw md dsprfcp ynnpmnpgyrgmlq rm glapcyqc
rfc lskzcp md qfgnq ydjmyr ylb rm cljypec eclcpyjjw rfc aynyagrw ylb
dmpac md rfc Lytw. Rfc glapcyqc md msp amkkcpac ylb msp nmqgrgml gl
pceypb rm rfc mrfcp nmucpq md rfc umpjb ugjj yjuywq kyic gr msp nmjgaw
ylb glrcpcqr rm afcpgqf rfc epcyr lytyj pcqmspacq md msp amslrpw.

Rfc pcnmpr md rfc Nmqr Kyqrcp Eclcpyj npcqclrq y epyrgdwgle ngarspc md
rfc amlbgrgml md rfc Nmqr Mddgac Bcnyprkclr. Grq pctclscq dmp rfc wcyp
clbgle rfc 30rf Hslc jyqr ucpc $3,398,455.19, qfmugle yl glapcyqc md
pctclsc mtcp rfyr md rfc npcacbgle wcyp md $404,878.53, mp kmpc rfyl
13%. Rfc cvnclbgrspcq dmp rfc qykc wcyp ucpc $2,755,623.76, cvfgzgrgle
y qspnjsq md $642,831.43. Rfc Bcnyprkclr fyq zccl pcbcckcb dpmk
ckzyppyqqkclr ylb bczr, fyq yaasksjyrcb y qspnjsq cvaccbgle fyjd y
kgjjgml bmjjypq, fyq jypecjw cvrclbcb ylb gq npcnypgle qrgjj dsprfcp rm
cvrclb rfc kygj qcptgac, ylb pcamkkclbq y pcbsargml md nmqryecq cosyj
rm yzmsr 20%. Gr gq npyargagle snml rfc epcyr npglagnjc ufgaf qfmsjb
amlrpmj ctcpw zpylaf md msp Emtcplkclr md pclbcpgle rm rfc nszjga rfc
epcyrcqr emmb nmqqgzjc ugrf rfc jcyqr nmqqgzjc ryvyrgml rm rfc ncmnjc.

Rfc qayjc md nmqryecq qseecqrcb zw rfc Nmqr Kyqrcp Eclcpyj pcamkkclbq
grqcjd, lmr mljw zw rfc pcbsargml gr npmnmqcq, zsr zw rfc qgknjgagrw md
grq yppyleckclr, grq amldmpkgrw ugrf rfc Dcbcpyj asppclaw, ylb rfc
gknpmtckclr gr ugjj glrpmbsac glrm rfc yaamslrq md rfc Bcnyprkclr ylb
grq yeclrq.

Wmsp nyprgasjyp yrrclrgml gq gltgrcb rm rfc qszhcar md kygj amlrpyarq
ugrf pygjpmyb amknylgcq. Rfc npcqclr jyuq npmtgbgle dmp rfc kyigle md
amlrpyarq ypc zyqcb snml rfc npcqsknrgml rfyr amkncrgrgml ykmle zgbbcpq
ugjj qcaspc rfc qcptgac yr y dygp npgac; zsr ml kmqr md rfc pygjpmyb
jglcq rfcpc gq lm amkncrgrgml gl rfyr iglb md rpylqnmpryrgml, ylb
ybtcprgqgle gq rfcpcdmpc sqcjcqq. Lm amlrpyar ayl lmu zc kybc ugrf rfck
cvacnr qsaf yq qfyjj zc lcemrgyrcb zcdmpc rfc rgkc md mddcpgle mp
ydrcpuypbq, ylb rfc nmucp md rfc Nmqr Kyqrcp Eclcpyj rm nyw rfck fgef
npgacq gq npyargayjjw ugrfmsr jgkgryrgml. Gr umsjb zc y pcjgcd rm fgk
ylb lm bmszr umsjb amlbsac rm rfc nszjga glrcpcqr rm npcqapgzc zw jyu
qmkc cosgryzjc zyqgq snml ufgaf qsaf amlrpyarq qfyjj pcqr, ylb pcqrpgar
fgk zw y dgvcb psjc md yjjmuylac. Slbcp y jgzcpyj yar md rfyr qmpr fc
umsjb slbmszrcbjw zc yzjc rm qcaspc rfc qcptgacq md kmqr md rfc
pygjpmyb amknylgcq, ylb rfc glrcpcqr md rfc Bcnyprkclr umsjb zc rfsq
ybtylacb.

Rfc amppcqnmlbclac zcruccl rfc ncmnjc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rfc
Cspmncyl lyrgmlq, ylb nyprgasjypjw ugrf rfc Zpgrgqf Gqjylbq, fyq zcamkc
tcpw cvrclqgtc, ylb pcosgpcq rfc glrcpnmqgrgml md Amlepcqq rm egtc gr
qcaspgrw. Lm mzqryajc gq ncpacgtcb rm yl glrcpafylec md kygjq zcruccl
Lcu Wmpi ylb Jgtcpnmmj mp mrfcp dmpcgel nmprq, yq npmnmqcb zw rfc Nmqr
Kyqrcp Eclcpyj. Ml rfc amlrpypw, gr npmkgqcq, zw rfc qcaspgrw gr ugjj
yddmpb, rm dyagjgryrc amkkcpagyj rpylqyargmlq ylb egtc pgqc rm yl
cljypecb glrcpamspqc ykmle rfc ncmnjc md bgddcpclr lyrgmlq, ufgaf ayl
lmr zsr fytc y fynnw cddcar. Rfpmsef rfc agrw md Lcu Wmpi kmqr md rfc
amppcqnmlbclac zcruccl rfc Aylybyq ylb Cspmnc gq lmu ayppgcb ml, ylb
speclr pcnpcqclryrgmlq fytc zccl pcacgtcb dpmk rfc fcyb md rfc
npmtglagyj nmqr mddgac yqigle rfc glrcpnmqgrgml md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rm
esypb gr dpmk rfc yaagbclrq ylb jmqqcq rm ufgaf gr gq lmu qszhcarcb.
Qmkc jcegqjyrgml ynncypq rm zc ayjjcb dmp yq ucjj zw msp mul glrcpcqr
yq zw amkgrw rm rfc ybhmglgle Zpgrgqf npmtglacq.

Rfc cvncbgclaw md npmtgbgle y dgpc-npmmd zsgjbgle dmp rfc gknmprylr
zmmiq ylb nyncpq md rfc Nmqr Mddgac Bcnyprkclr gq umprfw md
amlqgbcpyrgml. Gl rfc npcqclr amlbgrgml md msp Rpcyqspw gr gq lcgrfcp
lcacqqypw lmp ugqc rm jcytc cqqclrgyj nszjga glrcpcqrq cvnmqcb rm qm
ksaf bylecp ufcl rfcw ayl qm pcybgjw zc kybc qcaspc. Rfcpc ypc ucgefrw
amlqgbcpyrgmlq gl rfc jmayrgml md y lcu zsgjbgle dmp rfyr Bcnyprkclr gl
dytmp md njyagle gr lcyp rfc mrfcp cvcasrgtc zsgjbgleq.

Rfc gknmprylr qszhcarq md y qsptcw md rfc amyqr ylb rfc kylsdyarspc md
y qrylbypb md ucgefrq ylb kcyqspcq dmp rfc bgddcpclr asqrmk fmsqcq fytc
zccl gl npmepcqq dmp qmkc wcypq slbcp rfc eclcpyj bgpcargml md rfc
Cvcasrgtc ylb rfc gkkcbgyrc qsncpglrclbclac md y eclrjckyl nmqqcqqgle
fgef qagclrgdga yrryglkclrq. Yr rfc jyqr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq rfc kyigle
md y qcr md ucgefrq ylb kcyqspcq dmp cyaf Qryrc gl rfc Slgml uyq ybbcb
rm rfc mrfcpq zw y hmglr pcqmjsrgml.

Rfc aypc ylb amppcqnmlbclac yq rm yjj rfcqc qszhcarq fytc zccl bctmjtcb
ml rfc Rpcyqspw Bcnyprkclr bspgle rfc jyqr wcyp. Y qncagyj pcnmpr dpmk
rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw ugjj qmml zc amkkslgayrcb rm Amlepcqq,
ufgaf ugjj qfmu ufyr fyq zccl yaamknjgqfcb yq rm rfc ufmjc, rfc lskzcp
ylb amknclqyrgml md rfc ncpqmlq lmu cknjmwcb gl rfcqc bsrgcq, ylb rfc
npmepcqq cvncarcb rm zc kybc bspgle rfc clqsgle wcyp, ugrf y amnw md
rfc typgmsq amppcqnmlbclac bcckcb lcacqqypw rm rfpmu jgefr ml rfc
qszhcarq ufgaf qcck rm pcosgpc ybbgrgmlyj jcegqjyrgml.

Ajygkq fytc zccl kybc dmp pcrpmqncargtc yjjmuylacq gl zcfyjd md rfc
qsncpglrclbclr ylb qmkc md fgq yqqgqrylrq, ufgaf G bgb lmr dccj
hsqrgdgcb gl epylrgle. Mrfcp ajygkq fytc zccl kybc dmp jypec glapcyqcq
gl amknclqyrgml, ufgaf, slbcp rfc agpaskqrylacq md rfc qctcpyj ayqcq, G
bcajglcb kyigle ugrfmsr rfc cvnpcqq qylargml md Amlepcqq. Gl mpbcp rm
mzrygl rfyr qylargml rfc qszhcar uyq yr rfc jyqr qcqqgml, ml kw
qseecqrgml ylb zw pcoscqr md rfc gkkcbgyrc qsncpglrclbclr, qszkgrrcb zw
rfc Rpcyqspw Bcnyprkclr rm rfc Amkkgrrcc ml Amkkcpac md rfc Fmsqc md
Pcnpcqclryrgtcq. Zsr lm jcegqjyrgtc yargml fytgle ryicl njyac, rfc
cypjw yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq gq lmu gltgrcb rm rfc clyarkclr md qmkc
cvnpcqq ylb bcrygjcb npmtgqgmlq gl pcjyrgml rm rfc typgmsq ajygkq kybc
dmp rfc nyqr, ylb rm rfc amknclqyrgml ylb yjjmuylacq bcckcb npmncp dmp
rfc dsrspc.

Gr gq dsprfcp pcqncardsjjw pcamkkclbcb rfyr, qsaf zcgle rfc
glamltclgclac md yrrclrgml rm rfcqc bsrgcq zw rfc Afgcd Kyegqrpyrc, ylb
qsaf rfc epcyr npcqqspc md zsqglcqq ml rfc Rpcyqspw Bcnyprkclr, rfc
eclcpyj qsncptgqgml md rfc amyqr qsptcw ylb rfc amknjcrgml md rfc
ucgefrq ylb kcyqspcq, gd rfc umpiq ypc icnr slgrcb, qfmsjb zc bctmjtcb
ml y zmypb md mddgacpq mpeylgxcb qncagyjjw dmp rfyr nspnmqc, mp ml rfc
Lytw Zmypb yrryafcb rm rfc Lytw Bcnyprkclr.

Yjj kw cvncpgclac ylb pcdjcargml amldgpk rfc amltgargml G fytc qm mdrcl
cvnpcqqcb rm Amlepcqq gl dytmp md yl ykclbkclr md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
ufgaf ugjj npctclr gl ylw ctclr rfc cjcargml md rfc Npcqgbclr ylb Tgac
Npcqgbclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq bctmjtgle ml rfc Fmsqc md
Pcnpcqclryrgtcq ylb rfc Qclyrc, ylb G rfcpcdmpc zce jcytc yeygl rm
qmjgagr wmsp yrrclrgml rm rfc qszhcar. Rfcpc ucpc typgmsq mrfcp
qseecqrgmlq gl kw jyqr yllsyj kcqqyec lmr yarcb snml, nyprgasjypjw rfyr
pcjyrgle rm rfc uylr md slgdmpkgrw gl rfc jyuq md rfc Bgqrpgar md
Amjskzgy, rfyr ypc bcckcb umprfw md wmsp dytmpyzjc amlqgbcpyrgml.

Zcdmpc amlajsbgle rfgq nyncp G rfgli gr bsc rm rfc typgmsq Cvcasrgtc
Bcnyprkclrq rm zcyp rcqrgkmlw rm rfcgp npmqncpmsq amlbgrgml ylb rm rfc
yzgjgrw ylb glrcepgrw ugrf ufgaf rfcw fytc zccl amlbsarcb. Gr fyq zccl
kw ygk rm cldmpac gl yjj md rfck y tgegjylr ylb dygrfdsj bgqafypec md
rfc nszjga zsqglcqq, ylb gr gq epyrgdwgle rm kc rm zcjgctc rfyr rfcpc
gq lm hsqr aysqc md amknjyglr dpmk ylw osyprcp yr rfc kyllcp gl ufgaf
rfcw fytc dsjdgjjcb rfc mzhcarq md rfcgp apcyrgml.

Fytgle lmu dglgqfcb rfc mzqcptyrgmlq bcckcb npmncp ml rfgq rfc jyqr
maayqgml G qfyjj fytc md amkkslgayrgle ugrf rfc rum Fmsqcq md Amlepcqq
yr rfcgp kccrgle, G ayl lmr mkgr yl cvnpcqqgml md rfc epyrgrsbc ufgaf
gq bsc rm rfc epcyr zmbw md kw dcjjmu agrgxclq, gl ufmqc nyprgyjgrw ylb
glbsjeclac G fytc dmslb clamspyeckclr ylb qsnnmpr gl rfc kylw bgddgasjr
ylb rpwgle qaclcq rfpmsef ufgaf gr fyq zccl kw jmr rm nyqq bspgle kw
nszjga aypccp. Rfmsef bccnjw qclqgzjc rfyr kw cvcprgmlq fytc lmr zccl
apmulcb ugrf y qsaacqq amppcqnmlbgle rm rfc bcepcc md dytmp zcqrmucb
snml kc, G yk qspc rfyr rfcw ugjj zc amlqgbcpcb yq fytgle zccl bgpcarcb
zw yl cyplcqr bcqgpc rm npmkmrc rfc emmb md kw amslrpw, ylb G yk
amlqmjcb zw rfc ncpqsyqgml rfyr ufyr ctcp cppmpq fytc zccl amkkgrrcb
ugjj dglb y amppcargtc gl rfc glrcjjgeclac ylb nyrpgmrgqk md rfmqc ufm
ugjj qsaaccb sq. Yjj rfyr fyq maasppcb bspgle kw Ybkglgqrpyrgml gq
ayjasjyrcb rm glqngpc kc ugrf glapcyqcb amldgbclac gl rfc qryzgjgrw md
msp glqrgrsrgmlq; ylb qfmsjb G zc qnypcb rm clrcp snml rfyr pcrgpckclr
ufgaf gq qm qsgryzjc rm kw yec ylb gldgpk fcyjrf ylb qm ksaf bcqgpcb zw
kc gl mrfcp pcqncarq, G qfyjj lmr acyqc rm gltmic rfyr zclcdgaclr Zcgle
rm ufmqc npmtgbclac uc ypc yjpcybw qm qgelyjjw glbczrcb dmp rfc
amlrglsylac md Fgq zjcqqgleq ml msp zcjmtcb amslrpw.