Wvccfn Tzkzqvej fw kyv Jverkv reu fw kyv Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj:

Kyv gcvrjliv Z yrmv ze tfexirklcrkzex pfl lgfe pfli ivklie kf pfli
tfejkzklkzferc ulkzvj zj dlty yvzxykvevu sp kyv jrkzjwrtkzfe nyzty kyv
tfeuzkzfe fw fli svcfmvu tflekip rk kyzj gvizfu aljkcp zejgzivj. Kyv
svevwztvek Rlkyfi fw Rcc Xffu yrj xirekvu kf lj ulizex kyv givjvek pvri
yvrcky, gvrtv, reu gcvekp, reu eldviflj trljvj wfi afp ze kyv nfeuviwlc
jlttvjj nyzty rkkveuj kyv gifxivjj fw fli wivv zejkzklkzfej.

Nzky r gfglcrkzfe legrirccvcvu ze zkj zetivrjv, reu gfjjvjjzex r
tyrirtkvi nyzty tfdszevj kyv yriuzyffu fw vekvigizjv nzky kyv
tfejzuvirkvevjj fw nzjufd, nv jvv ze vmvip jvtkzfe fw fli yrggp tflekip
r jkvrup zdgifmvdvek ze kyv dvrej fw jftzrc zekvitflijv, reu
tfiivjgfeuvek vwwvtkj lgfe kyv xvezlj reu crnj fw fli vokveuvu
Ivglsczt.

Kyv rggrivek votvgkzfej kf kyv yridfep fw kyv gifjgvtk riv kf sv
ivwviivu irkyvi kf zevmzkrscv uzmvijzkzvj ze kyv mrizflj zekvivjkj
nyzty vekvi zekf kyv tfdgfjzkzfe fw jf vokvejzmv r nyfcv kyre rep nrek
fw rkkrtydvek kf kyv Lezfe--zekvivjkj nyfjv tfcczjzfej jvimv fecp ze
kyv veu kf wfjkvi kyv jgzizk fw tfetzczrkzfe reu grkizfkzjd jf
vjjvekzrc kf kyv givjvimrkzfe fw kyrk Lezfe nyzty Z dfjk uvmflkcp yfgv
zj uvjkzevu kf gifmv zdgvizjyrscv.

Ze kyv dzujk fw kyvjv scvjjzexj nv yrmv ivtvekcp nzkevjjvu tyrexvj ze
kyv tfeuzkzfej fw fkyvi erkzfej nyzty drp ze kyvzi tfejvhlvetvj trcc
wfi kyv lkdfjk mzxzcretv, nzjufd, reu lerezdzkp ze fli tfletzcj, reu
kyv vovitzjv fw rcc kyv dfuvirkzfe reu grkizfkzjd fw fli gvfgcv.

Kyv zdgfikrek dfuzwztrkzfej fw kyvzi Xfmviedvek, vwwvtkvu nzky jf dlty
tflirxv reu nzjufd sp kyv gvfgcv fw Wiretv, rwwfiu r yrggp givjrxv fw
kyvzi wlkliv tflijv, reu yrmv erklirccp vcztzkvu wifd kyv bzeuivu
wvvczexj fw kyzj erkzfe kyrk jgfekrevflj reu lezmvijrc slijk fw
rggcrljv ze nyzty pfl yrmv grikztzgrkvu. Ze tfexirklcrkzex pfl, dp
wvccfn tzkzqvej, lgfe re vmvek jf rljgztzflj kf kyv uvrivjk zekvivjkj
fw dre-bzeu Z uf ef dfiv kyre ivjgfeu kf kyv mfztv fw dp tflekip,
nzkyflk kirejtveuzex ze kyv jczxykvjk uvxivv kyrk jrclkrip drozd fw kyv
zccljkizflj Nrjyzexkfe nyzty veafzej re rsjkzevetv wifd rcc
zekviwvivetv nzky kyv zekvierc rwwrzij fw fkyvi erkzfej. Wifd r gvfgcv
vovitzjzex ze kyv dfjk leczdzkvu uvxivv kyv izxyk fw jvcw-xfmviedvek,
reu veafpzex, rj uvizmvu wifd kyzj giflu tyrirtkvizjkzt, leuvi kyv
wrmfi fw Yvrmve, dlty fw kyv yrggzevjj nzky nyzty kyvp riv scvjjvu; r
gvfgcv nyf tre gfzek ze kizldgy kf kyvzi wivv zejkzklkzfej reu
tyrccvexv tfdgrizjfe nzky kyv wilzkj kyvp svri, rj nvcc rj nzky kyv
dfuvirkzfe, zekvcczxvetv, reu vevixp nzky nyzty kyvp riv rudzezjkvivu--
wifd jlty r gvfgcv kyv uvvgvjk jpdgrkyp nrj kf sv vogvtkvu ze r
jkilxxcv wfi kyv jrtivu gizetzgcvj fw czsvikp, tfeultkvu ze r jgzizk
vmvip nrp nfikyp fw kyv trljv, reu tifnevu sp r yvifzt dfuvirkzfe nyzty
yrj uzjridvu ivmfclkzfe fw zkj kviifij. Efk nzkyjkreuzex kyv jkifex
rjjliretvj nyzty kyv dre nyfd nv jf jzetvivcp cfmv reu aljkcp rudziv
yrj xzmve kf kyv nficu fw kyv yzxy tyrirtkvi fw kyv givjvek Bzex fw kyv
Wivety, reu nyzty zw jljkrzevu kf kyv veu nzcc jvtliv kf yzd kyv giflu
rggvccrkzfe fw Grkizfk Bzex, zk zj efk ze yzj jlttvjj, slk ze kyrk fw
kyv xivrk gizetzgcv nyzty yrj sfiev yzd kf kyv kyifev--kyv grirdflek
rlkyfizkp fw kyv glsczt nzcc--kyrk kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv ivafztv.

Z rd yrggp kf zewfid pfl kyrk kyv rekztzgrkzfej nyzty nviv zeulcxvu rk
kyv urkv fw dp crjk tfddleztrkzfe fe kyv jlsavtk fw fli wfivzxe rwwrzij
yrmv svve wlccp ivrczqvu ze jvmvirc zdgfikrek grikztlcrij.

Re riirexvdvek yrj svve vwwvtkvu nzky Xivrk Sizkrze ze ivcrkzfe kf kyv
kiruv svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu yvi Nvjk Zeuzr reu Efiky Rdviztre
tfcfezvj nyzty yrj jvkkcvu r hlvjkzfe kyrk yrj wfi pvrij rwwfiuvu
drkkvi wfi tfekvekzfe reu rcdfjk lezekviilgkvu uzjtljjzfe, reu yrj svve
kyv jlsavtk fw ef cvjj kyre jzo evxfkzrkzfej, ze r dreevi nyzty
gifdzjvj ivjlckj yzxycp wrmfirscv kf kyv grikzvj.

Kyv rsjkirtk izxyk fw Xivrk Sizkrze kf dfefgfczqv kyv kiruv nzky yvi
tfcfezvj fi kf votcluv lj wifd r grikztzgrkzfe kyvivze yrj evmvi svve
uvezvu sp kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Slk nv yrmv tfekveuvu, reu nzky ivrjfe,
kyrk zw rk rep kzdv Xivrk Sizkrze drp uvjziv kyv gifultkzfej fw kyzj
tflekip rj evtvjjrip kf yvi tfcfezvj kyvp dljk sv ivtvzmvu lgfe
gizetzgcvj fw aljk ivtzgiftzkp, reu, wlikyvi, kyrk zk zj drbzex re
zemzuzflj reu lewizveucp uzjkzetkzfe kf fgve yvi tfcfezrc gfikj kf kyv
mvjjvcj fw fkyvi erkzfej reu tcfjv kyvd rxrzejk kyfjv fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj.

Rekvtvuvekcp kf 1794 r gfikzfe fw fli gifultkzfej nrj rudzkkvu zekf kyv
tfcfezrc zjcreuj fw Xivrk Sizkrze sp grikztlcri tfetvjjzfej, czdzkvu kf
kyv kvid fw fev pvri, slk ivevnvu wifd pvri kf pvri. Ze kyv
kirejgfikrkzfe fw kyvjv gifultkzfej, yfnvmvi, fli mvjjvcj nviv efk
rccfnvu kf vexrxv, kyzj svzex r gizmzcvxv ivjvimvu kf Sizkzjy jyzggzex,
sp nyzty rcfev fli gifultv tflcu sv krbve kf kyv zjcreuj reu kyvzij
siflxyk kf lj ze ivklie. Wifd Evnwfleucreu reu yvi tfekzevekrc
gfjjvjjzfej rcc fli gifultkzfej, rj nvcc rj fli mvjjvcj, nviv votcluvu,
nzky fttrjzferc ivcrorkzfej, sp nyzty, ze jvrjfej fw uzjkivjj, kyv
wfidvi nviv rudzkkvu ze Sizkzjy sfkkfdj.

Sp kyv kivrkp fw 1794 jyv fwwvivu kf tfetvuv kf lj wfi r czdzkvu kzdv
kyv izxyk fw triipzex kf yvi Nvjk Zeuzr gfjjvjjzfej ze fli mvjjvcj efk
votvvuzex 70 kfej slikyve, reu lgfe kyv jrdv kvidj rj Sizkzjy mvjjvcj,
rep gifultkzfej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj nyzty Sizkzjy mvjjvcj dzxyk zdgfik
kyvivwifd. Slk kyzj gizmzcvxv nrj tflgcvu nzky tfeuzkzfej nyzty riv
jlggfjvu kf yrmv cvu kf zkj ivavtkzfe sp kyv Jverkv; kyrk zj, kyrk
Rdviztre mvjjvcj jyflcu creu kyvzi ivklie trixfvj ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
fecp, reu, dfivfmvi, kyrk kyvp jyflcu ulizex kyv tfekzelretv fw kyv
gizmzcvxv sv givtcluvu wifd triipzex dfcrjjvj, jlxri, tfwwvv, tftfr, fi
tfkkfe vzkyvi wifd kyfjv zjcreuj fi wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf rep fkyvi
grik fw kyv nficu. Xivrk Sizkrze ivruzcp tfejvekvu kf voglexv kyzj
rikztcv wifd kyv kivrkp, reu jlsjvhlvek rkkvdgkj kf riirexv kyv kvidj
fw kyv kiruv vzkyvi sp kivrkp jkzglcrkzfej fi tfetvikvu cvxzjcrkzfe
yrmv wrzcvu, zk yrj svve jlttvjjzmvcp jljgveuvu reu rccfnvu rttfiuzex
kf kyv mripzex cvxzjcrkzfe fw kyv grikzvj.

Kyv wfccfnzex riv kyv gifdzevek gfzekj nyzty yrmv ze crkvi pvrij
jvgrirkvu kyv knf Xfmviedvekj: Svjzuvj r ivjkiztkzfe nyvivsp rcc
zdgfikrkzfej zekf yvi tfcfezvj ze Rdviztre mvjjvcj riv tfewzevu kf fli
fne gifultkj triizvu yvetv, r ivjkiztkzfe kf nyzty zk ufvj efk rggvri
kyrk nv yrmv vmvi fsavtkvu, r cvruzex fsavtk fe kyv grik fw Xivrk
Sizkrze yrj svve kf givmvek lj wifd svtfdzex kyv triizvij fw Sizkzjy
Nvjk Zeuzr tfddfuzkzvj kf rep fkyvi tflekip kyre fli fne. Fe kyv grik
fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zk yrj svve tfekveuvu, wzijk, kyrk kyv jlsavtk
jyflcu sv ivxlcrkvu sp kivrkp jkzglcrkzfe ze givwvivetv kf jvgrirkv
cvxzjcrkzfe; jvtfeu, kyrk fli gifultkzfej, nyve zdgfikvu zekf kyv
tfcfezvj ze hlvjkzfe, jyflcu efk sv jlsavtk kf yzxyvi ulkzvj kyre kyv
gifultkzfej fw kyv dfkyvi tflekip fi fw yvi fkyvi tfcfezrc gfjjvjjzfej,
reu, 3iu, kyrk fli mvjjvcj jyflcu sv rccfnvu kf grikztzgrkv ze kyv
tzitlzkflj kiruv svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu uzwwvivek grikj fw kyv
Sizkzjy ufdzezfej.

Kyv wzijk gfzek, rwkvi yrmzex svve wfi r cfex kzdv jkivelfljcp zejzjkvu
lgfe sp Xivrk Sizkrze, nrj xzmve lg sp kyv rtk fw Griczrdvek fw Alcp,
1825, rcc mvjjvcj jlwwvivu kf kiruv nzky kyv tfcfezvj svzex gvidzkkvu
kf tcvri wifd kyvetv nzky rep rikztcvj nyzty Sizkzjy mvjjvcj dzxyk
vogfik reu giftvvu kf rep grik fw kyv nficu, Xivrk Sizkrze reu yvi
uvgveuvetzvj rcfev votvgkvu. Fe fli grik vrty fw kyv rsfmv gfzekj yru
ze jlttvjjzfe svve vogcztzkcp rsreufevu ze evxfkzrkzfej givtvuzex kyrk
fw nyzty kyv ivjlck zj efn reefletvu.

Kyzj riirexvdvek jvtlivj kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj vmvip rumrekrxv rjbvu sp
kyvd, reu nyzty kyv jkrkv fw kyv evxfkzrkzfe rccfnvu lj kf zejzjk lgfe.
Kyv kiruv nzcc sv gcrtvu lgfe r wffkzex uvtzuvucp dfiv wrmfirscv kf
kyzj tflekip kyre rep fe nyzty zk vmvi jkffu, reu fli tfddvitv reu
ermzxrkzfe nzcc veafp ze kyv tfcfezrc gfikj fw Xivrk Sizkrze vmvip
gizmzcvxv rccfnvu kf fkyvi erkzfej.

Kyrk kyv gifjgvizkp fw kyv tflekip jf wri rj zk uvgveuj fe kyzj kiruv
nzcc sv xivrkcp gifdfkvu sp kyv evn riirexvdvek kyviv tre sv ef uflsk.
Zeuvgveuvekcp fw kyv dfiv fsmzflj rumrekrxvj fw re fgve reu uzivtk
zekvitflijv, zkj vjkrsczjydvek nzcc sv rkkveuvu nzky fkyvi tfejvhlvetvj
fw r yzxyvi mrclv. Kyrk nyzty yrj svve triizvu fe jzetv kyv dlklrc
zekviuztk leuvi rcc kyv vogvejv reu zetfemvezvetv lermfzurscp zetzuvek
kf zk nflcu yrmv svve zejlggfikrscp feviflj yru zk efk svve ze r xivrk
uvxivv czxykvevu sp tfetvikvu vmrjzfej ze kyv dfuv fw drbzex kyv
kirejjyzgdvekj rk nyrk riv trccvu kyv evlkirc gfikj. Kyvjv zeuzivtkzfej
riv zetfejzjkvek nzky kyv uzxezkp fw erkzfej kyrk yrmv jf drep dfkzmvj
efk fecp kf tyvizjy wvvczexj fw dlklrc wizveujyzg, slk kf drzekrze jlty
ivcrkzfej rj nzcc jkzdlcrkv kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv tzkzqvej reu jlsavtkj kf
vwwfikj fw uzivtk, fgve, reu yfefirscv tfdgvkzkzfe fecp, reu givjvimv
kyvd wifd kyv zewclvetv fw jvultkzmv reu mzkzrkzex tzitldjkretvj.

Nyve pfli givczdzerip zekvigfjzkzfe nrj rjbvu rk kyv tcfjv fw kyv crjk
jvjjzfe, r tfgp fw kyv zejkiltkzfej leuvi nyzty Di. DtCrev yrj rtkvu,
kfxvkyvi nzky kyv tfddleztrkzfej nyzty yru rk kyrk kzdv grjjvu svknvve
yzd reu kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek, nrj crzu svwfiv pfl. Rckyflxy kyviv yrj
efk svve rep kyzex ze kyv rtkj fw kyv knf Xfmviedvekj nyzty ivhlzivj
jvtivtp, zk nrj kyflxyk dfjk gifgvi ze kyv kyve jkrkv fw kyv
evxfkzrkzfe kf drbv kyrk tfddleztrkzfe r tfewzuvekzrc fev. Jf jffe,
yfnvmvi, rj kyv vmzuvetv fw vovtlkzfe fe kyv grik fw Xivrk Sizkrze zj
ivtvzmvu kyv nyfcv drkkvi jyrcc sv crzu svwfiv pfl, nyve zk nzcc sv
jvve kyrk kyv rggivyvejzfe nyzty rggvrij kf yrmv jlxxvjkvu fev fw kyv
gifmzjzfej fw kyv rtk grjjvu rk pfli crjk jvjjzfe, kyrk kyv ivjkfirkzfe
fw kyv kiruv ze hlvjkzfe dzxyk sv tfeevtkvu nzky fkyvi jlsavtkj reu nrj
jflxyk kf sv fskrzevu rk kyv jrtizwztv fw kyv glsczt zekvivjk ze fkyvi
grikztlcrij, nrj nyfccp lewfleuvu, reu kyrk kyv tyrexv nyzty yrj krbve
gcrtv ze kyv mzvnj fw kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek yrj svve zeultvu sp
tfejzuvirkzfej rj yfefirscv kf sfky grikzvj rj Z kiljk kyv ivjlck nzcc
gifmv svevwztzrc.

Kyzj uvjzirscv ivjlck nrj, zk nzcc sv jvve, xivrkcp gifdfkvu sp kyv
czsvirc reu tfewzuzex gifmzjzfej fw kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj fw kyv crjk
jvjjzfe, sp nyzty fli gfikj nviv lgfe kyv ivtvgkzfe reu reeletzrkzfe sp
kyv Givjzuvek fw kyv ivhlzivu rjjliretv fe kyv grik fw Xivrk Sizkrze
wfikynzky fgvevu kf yvi mvjjvcj svwfiv kyv riirexvdvek tflcu sv triizvu
zekf vwwvtk fe yvi grik, glijlzex ze kyzj rtk fw gifjgvtkzmv
cvxzjcrkzfe r jzdzcri tflijv kf kyrk rufgkvu sp Xivrk Sizkrze ze
rsfczjyzex, sp yvi rtk fw Griczrdvek ze 1825, r ivjkiztkzfe kyve
vozjkzex reu gvidzkkzex fli mvjjvcj kf tcvri wifd kyv tfcfezvj fe kyvzi
ivklie mfprxvj wfi rep wfivzxe tflekip nyrkvmvi svwfiv Sizkzjy mvjjvcj
yru svve ivczvmvu wifd kyv ivjkiztkzfe zdgfjvu sp fli crn fw ivkliezex
uzivtkcp wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf kyv tfcfezvj, r ivjkiztkzfe nyzty
jyv ivhlzivu reu vogvtkvu kyrk nv jyflcu rsfczjy. Lgfe vrty fttrjzfe r
czdzkvu reu kvdgfirip rumrekrxv yrj svve xzmve kf kyv fggfjzkv grikp,
slk re rumrekrxv fw ef zdgfikretv ze tfdgrizjfe nzky kyv ivjkfirkzfe fw
dlklrc tfewzuvetv reu xffu wvvczex, reu kyv lckzdrkv vjkrsczjydvek fw
kyv kiruv lgfe wrzi gizetzgcvj.

Zk xzmvj dv lewvzxevu gcvrjliv kf rjjliv pfl kyrk kyzj evxfkzrkzfe yrj
svve kyiflxyflk tyrirtkvizqvu sp kyv dfjk wireb reu wizveucp jgzizk fe
kyv grik fw Xivrk Sizkrze, reu tfetcluvu ze r dreevi jkifexcp
zeuztrkzmv fw r jzetviv uvjziv kf tlckzmrkv kyv svjk ivcrkzfej nzky kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Kf ivtzgiftrkv kyzj uzjgfjzkzfe kf kyv wlccvjk vokvek fw
dp rszczkp zj r ulkp nyzty Z jyrcc uvvd zk r gizmzcvxv kf uzjtyrixv.

Rckyflxy kyv ivjlck zj zkjvcw kyv svjk tfddvekrip fe kyv jvimztvj
iveuvivu kf yzj tflekip sp fli dzezjkvi rk kyv Tflik fw Jk. Ardvj, zk
nflcu sv ufzex mzfcvetv kf dp wvvczexj nviv Z kf uzjdzjj kyv jlsavtk
nzkyflk vogivjjzex kyv mvip yzxy jvejv Z vekvikrze fw kyv krcvek reu
vovikzfe nyzty yrmv svve uzjgcrpvu sp yzd fe kyv fttrjzfe.

Kyv zealip kf kyv tfddvitv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ivjlckzex wifd kyv
votcljzfe fw fli mvjjvcj wifd kyv Scrtb Jvr reu kyv givmzflj wffkzex fw
dviv jlwwviretv lgfe nyzty vmve kyv czdzkvu kiruv veafpvu sp lj nzky
Klibvp yrj yzkyvikf svve gcrtvu yrmv wfi r cfex kzdv svve r jflitv fw
dlty jfcztzkluv kf kyzj Xfmviedvek, reu jvmvirc veuvrmfij yrmv svve
druv kf fskrze r svkkvi jkrkv fw kyzexj. Jvejzscv fw kyv zdgfikretv fw
kyv fsavtk, Z wvck zk dp ulkp kf cvrmv ef gifgvi dvrej levdgcfpvu kf
rthlziv wfi fli wcrx kyv jrdv gizmzcvxvj kyrk riv veafpvu sp kyv
gizetzgrc gfnvij fw Vlifgv. Tfddzjjzfevij nviv tfejvhlvekcp rggfzekvu
kf fgve r evxfkzrkzfe nzky kyv Jlsczdv Gfikv. Efk cfex rwkvi kyv dvdsvi
fw kyv tfddzjjzfe nyf nvek uzivtkcp wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yru jrzcvu,
kyv rttflek fw kyv kivrkp fw Ruizrefgcv, sp nyzty fev fw kyv fsavtkj ze
mzvn nrj jlggfjvu kf sv jvtlivu, ivrtyvu kyzj tflekip. Kyv Scrtb Jvr
nrj leuvijkffu kf sv fgvevu kf lj. Leuvi kyv jlggfjzkzfe kyrk kyzj nrj
kyv trjv, kyv ruuzkzferc wrtzczkzvj kf sv uvizmvu wifd kyv
vjkrsczjydvek fw tfddvitzrc ivxlcrkzfej nzky kyv Gfikv nviv uvvdvu fw
jlwwztzvek zdgfikretv kf ivhlziv r gifjvtlkzfe fw kyv evxfkzrkzfe rj
fizxzerccp tfekvdgcrkvu. Zk nrj kyvivwfiv gvijvmvivu ze, reu ivjlckvu
ze r kivrkp, nyzty nzcc sv wfikynzky crzu svwfiv kyv Jverkv.

Sp zkj gifmzjzfej r wivv grjjrxv zj jvtlivu, nzkyflk czdzkrkzfej fw
kzdv, kf kyv mvjjvcj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf reu wifd kyv Scrtb Jvr,
zetcluzex kyv ermzxrkzfe kyvivfw, reu fli kiruv nzky Klibvp zj gcrtvu
fe kyv wffkzex fw kyv dfjk wrmfivu erkzfe. Kyv crkkvi zj re riirexvdvek
nyfccp zeuvgveuvek fw kyv kivrkp fw Ruizrefgcv, reu kyv wfidvi uvizmvj
dlty mrclv, efk fecp wifd kyv zetivrjvu jvtlizkp nyzty leuvi rep
tzitldjkretvj zk nflcu xzmv kf kyv izxyk ze hlvjkzfe, slk wifd kyv
wrtk, rjtvikrzevu ze kyv tflijv fw kyv evxfkzrkzfe, kyrk sp kyv
tfejkiltkzfe glk lgfe kyrk kivrkp sp Klibvp kyv rikztcv ivcrkzex kf kyv
grjjrxv fw kyv Sfjgyfilj zj tfewzevu kf erkzfej yrmzex kivrkzvj nzky
kyv Gfikv. Kyv dfjk wizveucp wvvczexj rggvri kf sv vekvikrzevu sp kyv
Jlckre, reu re veczxykvevu uzjgfjzkzfe zj vmzetvu sp yzd kf wfjkvi kyv
zekvitflijv svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj sp kyv dfjk czsvirc riirexvdvekj.
Kyzj uzjgfjzkzfe zk nzcc sv fli ulkp reu zekvivjk kf tyvizjy.

Fli ivcrkzfej nzky Iljjzr riv fw kyv dfjk jkrscv tyrirtkvi. Ivjgvtk wfi
kyrk Vdgziv reu tfewzuvetv ze zkj wizveujyzg kfnriu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
yrmv svve jf cfex vekvikrzevu fe fli grik reu jf trivwlccp tyvizjyvu sp
kyv givjvek Vdgvifi reu yzj zccljkizflj givuvtvjjfi rj kf yrmv svtfdv
zetfigfirkvu nzky kyv glsczt jvekzdvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Ef dvrej
nzcc sv cvwk levdgcfpvu fe dp grik kf gifdfkv kyvjv jrclkrip wvvczexj
reu kyfjv zdgifmvdvekj fw nyzty kyv tfddvitzrc zekvitflijv svknvve kyv
knf tflekizvj zj jljtvgkzscv, reu nyzty yrmv uvizmvu zetivrjvu
zdgfikretv wifd fli kivrkp nzky kyv Jlsczdv Gfikv.

Z jzetvivcp ivxivk kf zewfid pfl kyrk fli dzezjkvi crkvcp tfddzjjzfevu
kf kyrk Tflik, fe nyfjv uzjkzexlzjyvu krcvekj reu xivrk vogvizvetv ze
glsczt rwwrzij Z gcrtv xivrk ivczretv, yrj svve tfdgvccvu sp vokivdv
zeuzjgfjzkzfe kf vovitzjv r gizmzcvxv nyzty, ze tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyv
vokvek kf nyzty yzj tfejkzklkzfe yru svve zdgrzivu ze kyv glsczt
jvimztv, nrj tfddzkkvu kf yzj uzjtivkzfe--fw cvrmzex kvdgfirizcp yzj
gfjk wfi kyv rumrekrxv fw r dfiv xvezrc tczdrkv.

Zw, rj zk zj kf sv yfgvu, kyv zdgifmvdvek fw yzj yvrcky jyflcu sv jlty
rj kf aljkzwp yzd ze ufzex jf, yv nzcc ivgrzi kf Jk. Gvkvijslix reu
ivjldv kyv uzjtyrixv fw yzj fwwztzrc ulkzvj. Z yrmv ivtvzmvu kyv dfjk
jrkzjwrtkfip rjjliretvj kyrk ze kyv dvre kzdv kyv glsczt zekvivjk ze
kyrk hlrikvi nzcc sv givjvimvu wifd givaluztv sp kyv zekvitflijv nyzty
yv nzcc tfekzelv kyiflxy kyv jvtivkrip fw cvxrkzfe nzky kyv Iljjzre
trszevk.

Pfl riv rggizjvu, rckyflxy kyv wrtk yrj efk pvk svve fwwztzrccp
reefletvu kf kyv Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj, kyrk r kivrkp nrj ze kyv
dfeky fw Drity crjk tfetcluvu svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu Uvedrib,
sp nyzty $650 kyfljreu riv jvtlivu kf fli tzkzqvej rj re zeuvdezkp wfi
jgfczrkzfej lgfe kyvzi tfddvitv ze kyv pvrij 1808, 1809, 1810, reu
1811. Kyzj kivrkp nrj jretkzfevu sp kyv Jverkv rk kyv tcfjv fw zkj crjk
jvjjzfe, reu zk efn svtfdvj kyv ulkp fw Tfexivjj kf grjj kyv evtvjjrip
crnj wfi kyv fixrezqrkzfe fw kyv sfriu fw tfddzjjzfevij kf uzjkizslkv
kyv zeuvdezkp rdfex kyv tcrzdrekj. Zk zj re rxivvrscv tzitldjkretv ze
kyzj rualjkdvek kyrk kyv kvidj riv ze tfewfidzkp nzky kyv givmzfljcp
rjtvikrzevu mzvnj fw kyv tcrzdrekj kyvdjvcmvj, kylj ivdfmzex rcc
givkvejv wfi r wlkliv rxzkrkzfe fw kyv jlsavtk ze rep wfid.

Kyv evxfkzrkzfej ze ivxriu kf jlty gfzekj ze fli wfivzxe ivcrkzfej rj
ivdrze kf sv rualjkvu yrmv svve rtkzmvcp gifjvtlkvu ulizex kyv ivtvjj.
Drkvizrc rumretvj yrmv svve druv, nyzty riv fw r tyrirtkvi kf gifdzjv
wrmfirscv ivjlckj. Fli tflekip, sp kyv scvjjzex fw Xfu, zj efk ze r
jzklrkzfe kf zemzkv rxxivjjzfe, reu zk nzcc sv fli wrlck zw jyv vmvi
svtfdvj jf. Jzetvivcp uvjziflj kf tlckzmrkv kyv dfjk czsvirc reu
wizveucp ivcrkzfej nzky rcc; vmvi ivrup kf wlcwzcc fli vexrxvdvekj nzky
jtilglcflj wzuvczkp; czdzkzex fli uvdreuj lgfe fkyvij kf dviv aljkztv;
yfcuzex flijvcmvj vmvi ivrup kf uf lekf kyvd rj nv nflcu nzjy kf sv
ufev sp, reu rmfzuzex vmve kyv rggvriretv fw leulv grikzrczkp kf rep
erkzfe, zk rggvrij kf dv zdgfjjzscv kyrk r jzdgcv reu jzetviv
rggcztrkzfe fw fli gizetzgcvj kf fli wfivzxe ivcrkzfej tre wrzc kf
gcrtv kyvd lckzdrkvcp lgfe kyv wffkzex fe nyzty zk zj fli nzjy kyvp
jyflcu ivjk.

Fw kyv gfzekj ivwviivu kf, kyv dfjk gifdzevek riv fli tcrzdj lgfe
Wiretv wfi jgfczrkzfej lgfe fli tfddvitv; jzdzcri tcrzdj lgfe Jgrze,
kfxvkyvi nzky vdsriirjjdvekj ze kyv tfddvitzrc zekvitflijv svknvve kyv
knf tflekizvj nyzty flxyk kf sv ivdfmvu; kyv tfetcljzfe fw kyv kivrkp
fw tfddvitv reu ermzxrkzfe nzky Dvoztf, nyzty yrj svve jf cfex ze
jljgvejv, rj nvcc rj kyv wzerc jvkkcvdvek fw czdzkj svknvve flijvcmvj
reu kyrk Ivglsczt, reu, wzerccp, kyv riszkirdvek fw kyv hlvjkzfe
svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu Xivrk Sizkrze ze ivxriu kf kyv
efiky-vrjkvie sfleurip.

Kyv evxfkzrkzfe nzky Wiretv yrj svve tfeultkvu sp fli dzezjkvi nzky
qvrc reu rszczkp, reu ze rcc ivjgvtkj kf dp vekziv jrkzjwrtkzfe.
Rckyflxy kyv gifjgvtk fw r wrmfirscv kvidzerkzfe nrj fttrjzferccp
uzddvu sp tflekvi givkvejzfej kf nyzty kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj tflcu efk
rjjvek, yv pvk yru jkifex yfgvj fw svzex rscv kf riizmv rk r
jrkzjwrtkfip jvkkcvdvek nzky kyv crkv Xfmviedvek. Kyv evxfkzrkzfe yrj
svve ivevnvu nzky kyv givjvek rlkyfizkzvj, reu, jvejzscv fw kyv xvevirc
reu czmvcp tfewzuvetv fw fli tzkzqvej ze kyv aljkztv reu drxerezdzkp fw
ivxvevirkvu Wiretv, Z ivxivk kyv dfiv efk kf yrmv zk ze dp gfnvi pvk kf
reefletv kyv ivjlck jf tfewzuvekcp rekztzgrkvu. Ef xifleu, yfnvmvi,
zetfejzjkvek nzky kyzj vogvtkrkzfe yrj pvk svve krbve, reu Z uf efk
rccfn dpjvcw kf uflsk kyrk aljkztv nzcc jffe sv ufev lj. Kyv rdflek fw
kyv tcrzdj, kyv cvexky fw kzdv kyvp yrmv ivdrzevu lejrkzjwzvu, reu
kyvzi zetfekifmvikzscv aljkztv drbv re vrievjk gifjvtlkzfe fw kyvd sp
kyzj Xfmviedvek re lixvek ulkp. Kyv zccvxrczkp fw kyv jvzqlivj reu
tfewzjtrkzfej flk fw nyzty kyvp yrmv rizjve zj efk uzjglkvu, reu nyrk
vmvi uzjkzetkzfej drp yrmv yvivkfwfiv svve jvk lg ze ivxriu kf kyv
czrszczkp fw kyv vozjkzex Xfmviedvek zk zj hlzkv tcvri kyrk jlty
tfejzuvirkzfej tre efk efn sv zekvigfjvu.

Kyv tfddvitzrc zekvitflijv svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj zj jljtvgkzscv fw
yzxycp rumrekrxvflj zdgifmvdvekj, slk kyv jvejv fw kyzj zealip yrj yru,
reu dljk tfekzelv kf yrmv, r mvip lewrmfirscv zewclvetv lgfe kyvd. Wifd
zkj jrkzjwrtkfip rualjkdvek efk fecp r wzid reu tfiuzrc wizveujyzg, slk
r gifxivjjzmv uvmvcfgdvek fw rcc kyvzi ivcrkzfej, drp sv vogvtkvu. Zk
zj, kyvivwfiv, dp vrievjk yfgv kyrk kyzj fcu reu mvorkzflj jlsavtk fw
uzwwvivetv drp sv jgvvuzcp ivdfmvu.

Z wvvc kyrk dp tfewzuvetv ze fli rggvrc kf kyv dfkzmvj nyzty jyflcu
xfmvie r aljk reu drxerezdflj erkzfe zj rczbv nriirekvu sp kyv
tyrirtkvi fw kyv Wivety gvfgcv reu sp kyv yzxy mfltyvi nv gfjjvjj wfi
kyv vecrixvu mzvnj reu gliv zekvxizkp fw kyv Dferity nyf efn givjzuvj
fmvi kyvzi tfletzcj, reu efkyzex jyrcc sv nrekzex fe dp grik kf dvvk
rep drezwvjkrkzfe fw kyv jgzizk nv rekztzgrkv ze fev fw tfiivjgfeuzex
wirebevjj reu czsvirczkp.

Kyv jlsavtkj fw uzwwvivetv nzky Jgrze yrmv svve siflxyk kf kyv mzvn fw
kyrk Xfmviedvek sp fli dzezjkvi kyviv nzky dlty wfitv reu gifgizvkp,
reu kyv jkifexvjk rjjliretvj yrmv svve ivtvzmvu fw kyvzi vricp reu
wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe.

Kyv jkvgj nyzty ivdrzevu kf gcrtv kyv drkkvi ze tfekifmvijp svknvve
Xivrk Sizkrze reu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj wrzicp svwfiv kyv riszkirkfi yrmv
rcc svve krbve ze kyv jrdv czsvirc reu wizveucp jgzizk nyzty
tyrirtkvizqvu kyfjv svwfiv reefletvu. Ivtvek vmvekj yrmv uflskcvjj
jvimvu kf uvcrp kyv uvtzjzfe, slk fli dzezjkvi rk kyv Tflik fw kyv
uzjkzexlzjyvu riszkirkfi yrj svve rjjlivu kyrk zk nzcc sv druv nzkyze
kyv kzdv tfekvdgcrkvu sp kyv kivrkp.

Z rd grikztlcricp xirkzwzvu ze svzex rscv kf jkrkv kyrk r uvtzuvucp
wrmfirscv, reu, rj Z yfgv, crjkzex, tyrexv yrj svve vwwvtkvu ze fli
ivcrkzfej nzky kyv evzxysfizex Ivglsczt fw Dvoztf. Kyv lewfiklerkv reu
lewfleuvu jljgztzfej ze ivxriu kf fli uzjgfjzkzfe nyzty zk svtrdv dp
grzewlc ulkp kf rumvik kf fe r wfidvi fttrjzfe yrmv svve, Z svczvmv,
vekzivcp ivdfmvu, reu kyv Xfmviedvek fw Dvoztf yrj svve druv kf
leuvijkreu kyv ivrc tyrirtkvi fw kyv nzjyvj reu mzvnj fw kyzj ze ivxriu
kf kyrk tflekip. Kyv tfejvhlvetvj zj kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw wizveujyzg
reu dlklrc tfewzuvetv. Jlty riv kyv rjjliretvj Z yrmv ivtvzmvu, reu Z
jvv ef trljv kf uflsk kyvzi jzetvizkp.

Z yru ivrjfe kf vogvtk kyv tfetcljzfe fw r tfddvitzrc kivrkp nzky
Dvoztf ze jvrjfe wfi tfddleztrkzfe fe kyv givjvek fttrjzfe.
Tzitldjkretvj nyzty riv efk vogcrzevu, slk nyzty Z rd gvijlruvu riv efk
kyv ivjlck fw re zeuzjgfjzkzfe fe yvi grik kf vekvi zekf zk, yrmv
gifultvu kyv uvcrp.

Kyviv nrj ivrjfe kf wvri ze kyv tflijv fw kyv crjk jlddvi kyrk kyv
yridfep fw fli ivcrkzfej dzxyk sv uzjklisvu sp kyv rtkj fw tvikrze
tcrzdrekj, leuvi Dvoztre xirekj, fw kviizkfip nyzty yru yzkyvikf svve
leuvi fli alizjuztkzfe. Kyv tffgvirkzfe fw kyv ivgivjvekrkzmv fw Dvoztf
evri kyzj Xfmviedvek nrj rjbvu fe kyv fttrjzfe reu nrj ivruzcp
rwwfiuvu. Zejkiltkzfej reu rumztv yrmv svve xzmve kf kyv xfmviefi fw
Ribrejrj reu kyv fwwztvij ze tfddreu ze kyv ruafzezex Dvoztre Jkrkv sp
nyzty zk zj yfgvu kyv hlzvk fw kyrk wifekzvi nzcc sv givjvimvu lekzc r
wzerc jvkkcvdvek fw kyv uzmzuzex czev jyrcc yrmv ivdfmvu rcc xifleu fw
tfekifmvijp.

Kyv votyrexv fw irkzwztrkzfej fw kyv kivrkp tfetcluvu crjk pvri nzky
Rljkizr yrj efk pvk krbve gcrtv. Kyv uvcrp yrj svve fttrjzfevu sp kyv
efe-riizmrc fw kyv irkzwztrkzfe fw kyrk Xfmviedvek nzkyze kyv kzdv
givjtizsvu sp kyv kivrkp. Ivevnvu rlkyfizkp yrj svve rjbvu wfi sp kyv
ivgivjvekrkzmv fw Rljkizr, reu ze kyv dvre kzdv kyv irgzucp zetivrjzex
kiruv reu ermzxrkzfe svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj yrmv svve gcrtvu lgfe
kyv dfjk czsvirc wffkzex fw fli ermzxrkzfe rtkj.

Jvmvirc rccvxvu uvgivurkzfej yrmv svve ivtvekcp tfddzkkvu fe fli
tfddvitv sp kyv erkzferc mvjjvcj fw Gfiklxrc. Kyvp yrmv svve druv kyv
jlsavtk fw zddvuzrkv ivdfejkiretv reu ivtcrdrkzfe. Z rd efk pvk
gfjjvjjvu fw jlwwztzvek zewfidrkzfe kf vogivjj r uvwzezkzmv fgzezfe fw
kyvzi tyrirtkvi, slk vogvtk jffe kf ivtvzmv zk. Ef gifgvi dvrej jyrcc
sv fdzkkvu kf fskrze wfi fli tzkzqvej rcc kyv ivuivjj kf nyzty kyvp drp
rggvri kf sv vekzkcvu.

Rcdfjk rk kyv dfdvek fw kyv ruafliedvek fw pfli crjk jvjjzfe knf
szccj--kyv fev vekzkcvu "Re rtk wfi drbzex rggifgizrkzfej wfi slzcuzex
czxyk yfljvj, czxyk sfrkj, svrtfej, reu dfeldvekj, gcrtzex slfpj, reu
wfi zdgifmzex yrisfij reu uzivtkzex jlimvpj", reu kyv fkyvi "Re rtk kf
rlkyfizqv r jlsjtizgkzfe wfi jkftb ze kyv Cflzjmzccv reu Gfikcreu Trerc
Tfdgrep"--nviv jlsdzkkvu wfi dp rggifmrc. Zk nrj efk gfjjzscv nzkyze
kyv kzdv rccfnvu wfi dv svwfiv kyv tcfjv fw kyv jvjjzfe kf xzmv kf
kyvjv szccj kyv tfejzuvirkzfe nyzty nrj ulv kf kyvzi tyrirtkvi reu
zdgfikretv, reu Z nrj tfdgvccvu kf ivkrze kyvd wfi kyrk gligfjv. Z efn
rmrzc dpjvcw fw kyzj vricp fggfiklezkp kf ivklie kyvd kf kyv Yfljvj ze
nyzty kyvp ivjgvtkzmvcp fizxzerkvu nzky kyv ivrjfej nyzty, rwkvi drkliv
uvczsvirkzfe, tfdgvc dv kf nzkyyfcu dp rggifmrc.

Kyv girtkztv fw uvwirpzex flk fw kyv Kivrjlip fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kyv
vogvejvj zetliivu sp kyv vjkrsczjydvek reu jlggfik fw czxyk yfljvj,
svrtfej, slfpj, reu glsczt gzvij nzkyze kyv srpj, zecvkj, yrisfij, reu
gfikj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kf iveuvi kyv ermzxrkzfe kyvivfw jrwv reu
vrjp, zj tfvmrc nzky kyv rufgkzfe fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe, reu yrj svve
tfekzelvu nzkyflk zekviilgkzfe fi uzjglkv.

Rj fli wfivzxe tfddvitv zetivrjvu reu nrj vokveuvu zekf kyv zekvizfi fw
kyv tflekip sp kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw gfikj fw vekip reu uvczmvip lgfe
fli ermzxrscv izmvij kyv jgyviv fw kyfjv vogveuzklivj ivtvzmvu r
tfiivjgfeuzex vecrixvdvek. Czxyk yfljvj, svrtfej, slfpj, glsczt gzvij,
reu kyv ivdfmrc fw jreu srij, jrnpvij, reu fkyvi grikzrc fi kvdgfirip
zdgvuzdvekj ze kyv ermzxrscv izmvij reu yrisfij nyzty nviv vdsirtvu ze
kyv ivmvelv uzjkiztkj wifd kzdv kf kzdv vjkrsczjyvu sp crn nviv
rlkyfizqvu lgfe kyv jrdv gizetzgcv reu kyv vogvejv uvwirpvu ze kyv jrdv
dreevi. Kyrk kyvjv vogvejvj yrmv rk kzdvj svve vokirmrxrek reu
uzjgifgfikzferkv zj mvip gifsrscv. Kyv tzitldjkretvj leuvi nyzty kyvp
riv zetliivu riv nvcc trctlcrkvu kf cvru kf jlty r ivjlck lecvjj kyvzi
rggcztrkzfe zj jlsavtkvu kf kyv tcfjvjk jtilkzep. Kyv cftrc rumrekrxvj
rizjzex wifd kyv uzjslijvdvek fw glsczt dfevp kff wivhlvekcp, zk zj kf
sv wvrivu, zemzkv rggifgizrkzfej wfi fsavtkj fw kyzj tyrirtkvi kyrk riv
evzkyvi evtvjjrip efi ljvwlc.

Kyv eldsvi fw czxyk yfljv bvvgvij zj rcivrup mvip crixv, reu kyv szcc
svwfiv dv gifgfjvj kf ruu kf zk 51 dfiv fw mrizflj uvjtizgkzfej. Wifd
ivgivjvekrkzfej lgfe kyv jlsavtk nyzty riv leuvijkffu kf sv vekzkcvu kf
ivjgvtk Z rd zeultvu kf svczvmv kyrk kyviv yrj efk fecp svve xivrk
zdgifmzuvetv ze kyv grjk vogveuzklivj fw kyv Xfmviedvek lgfe kyvjv
fsavtkj, slk kyrk kyv jvtlizkp fw ermzxrkzfe yrj ze jfdv zejkretvj svve
uzdzezjyvu sp kyv dlckzgcztrkzfe fw czxyk yfljvj reu tfejvhlvek tyrexv
fw czxykj lgfe kyv tfrjk. Zk zj ze kyzj rj ze fkyvi ivjgvtkj fli ulkp
kf rmfzu rcc leevtvjjrip vogvejv, rj nvcc rj vmvip zetivrjv fw
grkiferxv efk trccvu wfi sp kyv glsczt jvimztv.

Slk ze kyv uzjtyrixv fw kyrk ulkp ze kyzj grikztlcri zk dljk efk sv
wfixfkkve kyrk ze ivcrkzfe kf fli wfivzxe tfddvitv kyv sliuve reu
svevwzk fw gifkvtkzex reu rttfddfurkzex zk evtvjjrizcp xf kfxvkyvi, reu
dljk uf jf rj cfex rj kyv glsczt ivmvelv zj uirne wifd kyv gvfgcv
kyiflxy kyv tljkfd yfljv. Zk zj zeuzjglkrscv kyrk nyrkvmvi xzmvj
wrtzczkp reu jvtlizkp kf ermzxrkzfe tyvrgvej zdgfikj reu rcc nyf
tfejldv kyvd riv rczbv zekvivjkvu ze nyrk vmvi gifultvj kyzj vwwvtk. Zw
kyvp tfejldv, kyvp flxyk, rj kyvp efn uf, kf grp; fkyvinzjv kyvp uf efk
grp. Kyv tfejldvi ze kyv dfjk zecreu Jkrkv uvizmvj kyv jrdv rumrekrxv
wifd vmvip evtvjjrip reu giluvek vogveuzkliv wfi kyv wrtzczkp reu
jvtlizkp fw fli wfivzxe tfddvitv reu ermzxrkzfe kyrk yv ufvj nyf
ivjzuvj ze r drizkzdv Jkrkv. Cftrc vogveuzklivj yrmv efk fw kyvdjvcmvj
r tfiivjgfeuzex fgvirkzfe.

Wifd r szcc drbzex uzivtk rggifgizrkzfej wfi jlty fsavtkj Z jyflcu
efk yrmv nzkyyvcu dp rjjvek. Kyv fev efn ivklievu ufvj jf ze jvmvirc
grikztlcrij, slk zk rcjf tfekrzej rggifgizrkzfej wfi jlimvpj fw cftrc
tyrirtkvi, nyzty Z tre efk rggifmv. Zk xzmvj dv jrkzjwrtkzfe kf wzeu
kyrk ef jvizflj zetfemvezvetv yrj rizjve wifd nzkyyfcuzex dp rggifmrc
wifd kyzj szcc; efi nzcc zk, Z kiljk, sv trljv fw ivxivk kyrk re
fggfiklezkp nzcc sv kyvivsp rwwfiuvu wfi Tfexivjj kf ivmzvn zkj
gifmzjzfej leuvi tzitldjkretvj svkkvi trctlcrkvu wfi wlcc zemvjkzxrkzfe
kyre kyfjv leuvi nyzty zk nrj grjjvu.

Ze jgvrbzex fw uzivtk rggifgizrkzfej Z dvre efk kf zetcluv r girtkztv
nyzty yrj fskrzevu kf jfdv vokvek, reu kf nyzty Z yrmv ze fev zejkretv,
ze r uzwwvivek trgrtzkp, xzmve dp rjjvek--kyrk fw jlsjtizszex kf kyv
jkftb fw gizmrkv rjjftzrkzfej. Gfjzkzmv vogvizvetv reu r dfiv kyfiflxy
tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyv jlsavtk yrmv tfemzetvu dv fw kyv zdgifgizvkp rj
nvcc rj zevogvuzvetp fw jlty zemvjkdvekj. Rcc zdgifmvdvekj vwwvtkvu sp
kyv wleuj fw kyv erkzfe wfi xvevirc ljv jyflcu sv fgve kf kyv veafpdvek
fw rcc fli wvccfn tzkzqvej, vovdgk wifd kyv grpdvek fw kfccj fi rep
zdgfjzkzfe fw kyrk tyrirtkvi. Kyv girtkztv fw kylj dzexczex kyv
tfetviej fw kyv Xfmviedvek nzky kyfjv fw kyv Jkrkvj fi fw zeuzmzulrcj
zj zetfejzjkvek nzky kyv fsavtk fw zkj zejkzklkzfe reu yzxycp zdgfczkv.
Kyv jlttvjjwlc fgvirkzfe fw kyv wvuvirc jpjkvd tre fecp sv givjvimvu sp
tfewzezex zk kf kyv wvn reu jzdgcv, slk pvk zdgfikrek, fsavtkj wfi
nyzty zk nrj uvjzxevu.

R uzwwvivek girtkztv, zw rccfnvu kf gifxivjj, nflcu lckzdrkvcp tyrexv
kyv tyrirtkvi fw kyzj Xfmviedvek sp tfejfczurkzex zekf fev kyv Xvevirc
reu Jkrkv Xfmviedvekj, nyzty nviv zekveuvu kf sv bvgk wfi vmvi
uzjkzetk. Z tre efk gvitvzmv yfn szccj rlkyfizqzex jlty jlsjtizgkzfej
tre sv fkyvinzjv ivxriuvu kyre rj szccj wfi ivmvelv, reu tfejvhlvekcp
jlsavtk kf kyv ilcv ze kyrk ivjgvtk givjtizsvu sp kyv Tfejkzklkzfe. Zw
kyv zekvivjk fw kyv Xfmviedvek ze gizmrkv tfdgrezvj zj jlsfiuzerkv kf
kyrk fw zeuzmzulrcj, kyv drerxvdvek reu tfekifc fw r gfikzfe fw kyv
glsczt wleuj zj uvcvxrkvu kf re rlkyfizkp lebefne kf kyv Tfejkzklkzfe
reu svpfeu kyv jlgvimzjzfe fw fli tfejkzklvekj; zw jlgvizfi, zkj
fwwztvij reu rxvekj nzcc sv tfejkrekcp vogfjvu kf zdglkrkzfej fw
wrmfizkzjd reu fggivjjzfe. Uzivtk givaluztv kyv glsczt zekvivjk fi re
rczverkzfe fw kyv rwwvtkzfej reu ivjgvtk fw gfikzfej fw kyv gvfgcv drp,
kyvivwfiv, ze ruuzkzfe kf kyv xvevirc uzjtivuzk ivjlckzex kf kyv
Xfmviedvek wifd vdsribzex nzky zkj tfejkzklvekj ze gvtlezrip
jkzglcrkzfej, sv cffbvu wfi rj kyv gifsrscv wilzk fw jlty rjjftzrkzfej.
Zk zj ef rejnvi kf kyzj fsavtkzfe kf jrp kyrk kyv vokvek fw
tfejvhlvetvj czbv kyvjv tre efk sv xivrk wifd r czdzkvu reu jdrcc
eldsvi fw zemvjkdvekj, svtrljv vogvizvetv ze fkyvi drkkvij kvrtyvj
lj--reu nv riv efk rk czsvikp kf uzjivxriu zkj rudfezkzfej--kyrk lecvjj
re vekziv jkfg sv glk kf kyvd zk nzcc jffe sv zdgfjjzscv kf givmvek
kyvzi rttldlcrkzfe lekzc kyvp riv jgivru fmvi kyv nyfcv tflekip reu
druv kf vdsirtv drep fw kyv gizmrkv reu rggifgizrkv tfetviej fw
zeuzmzulrcj.

Kyv gfnvi nyzty kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek nflcu rthlziv nzkyze kyv jvmvirc
Jkrkvj sp svtfdzex kyv gizetzgrc jkftb-yfcuvi ze tfigfirkzfej,
tfekifcczex vmvip trerc reu vrty 60 fi 100 dzcvj fw vmvip zdgfikrek
ifru, reu xzmzex r gifgfikzferkv mfkv ze rcc kyvzi vcvtkzfej, zj rcdfjk
zetfetvzmrscv, reu ze dp mzvn urexviflj kf kyv czsvikzvj fw kyv gvfgcv.

Kyzj dfuv fw rzuzex jlty nfibj zj rcjf ze zkj erkliv uvtvgkzmv, reu ze
drep trjvj tfeultzmv kf zdgifmzuvetv ze kyv rudzezjkirkzfe fw kyv
erkzferc wleuj. Rggifgizrkzfej nzcc sv fskrzevu nzky dlty xivrkvi
wrtzczkp reu xirekvu nzky cvjj jvtlizkp kf kyv glsczt zekvivjk nyve kyv
dvrjliv zj kylj uzjxlzjvu kyre nyve uvwzezkv reu uzivtk vogveuzklivj fw
dfevp riv rjbvu wfi. Kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv erkzfe nflcu uflskcvjj sv
svkkvi jvimvu sp rmfzuzex rcc jlty zeuzivtk dfuvj fw rzuzex grikztlcri
fsavtkj. Ze r xfmviedvek czbv flij dfiv vjgvtzrccp jyflcu rcc glsczt
rtkj sv, rj wri rj girtkztrscv, jzdgcv, leuzjxlzjvu, reu zekvcczxzscv,
kyrk kyvp drp svtfdv wzk jlsavtkj wfi kyv rggifsrkzfe kf rezdrumvijzfe
fw kyv gvfgcv.

Kyv szcc rlkyfizqzex r jlsjtizgkzfe kf kyv Cflzjmzccv reu Gfikcreu
Trerc rwwfiuj r jkizbzex zccljkirkzfe fw kyv uzwwztlckp fw nzkyyfcuzex
ruuzkzferc rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv jrdv fsavtk nyve kyv wzijk viifevflj
jkvg yrj svve krbve sp zejkzklkzex r grikevijyzg svknvve kyv Xfmviedvek
reu gizmrkv tfdgrezvj. Zk gifgfjvj r kyziu jlsjtizgkzfe fe kyv grik fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nyve vrty givtvuzex fev nrj rk kyv kzdv ivxriuvu rj
kyv vokvek fw kyv rzu nyzty Xfmviedvek nrj kf iveuvi kf kyrk nfib; reu
kyv rttfdgrepzex szcc wfi czxyk yfljvj, vkt., tfekrzej re rggifgizrkzfe
wfi r jlimvp fw kyv svu fw kyv izmvi, nzky r mzvn kf zkj zdgifmvdvek sp
ivdfmzex kyv fsjkiltkzfe nyzty kyv trerc zj uvjzxevu kf rmfzu. Kyzj
zdgifmvdvek, zw jlttvjjwlc, nflcu rwwfiu r wivv grjjrxv fw kyv izmvi
reu iveuvi kyv trerc vekzivcp ljvcvjj. Kf jlty zdgifmzuvetv zj kyv
tflijv fw cvxzjcrkzfe jlsavtk ze ivcrkzfe kf zekvierc zdgifmvdvekj fe
cftrc drkkvij, vmve nzky kyv svjk zekvekzfej fe kyv grik fw Tfexivjj.

Rckyflxy kyv dfkzmvj nyzty yrmv zewclvetvu dv ze kyzj drkkvi drp sv
rcivrup jlwwztzvekcp jkrkvu, Z rd, evmvi kyv cvjj, zeultvu sp zkj
zdgfikretv kf ruu r wvn fsjvimrkzfej fw r xvevirc tyrirtkvi.

Ze dp fsavtkzfej kf kyv szccj rlkyfizqzex jlsjtizgkzfej kf kyv
Drpjmzccv reu Iftbmzccv ifru tfdgrezvj Z vogivjjvu dp mzvnj wlccp ze
ivxriu kf kyv gfnvi fw Tfexivjj kf tfejkiltk ifruj reu trercj nzkyze r
Jkrkv fw kf rggifgizrkv dfevp wfi zdgifmvdvekj fw r cftrc tyrirtkvi. Z
rk kyv jrdv kzdv zekzdrkvu dv svczvw kyrk kyv izxyk kf drbv
rggifgizrkzfej wfi jlty rj nviv fw r erkzferc tyrirtkvi yru svve jf
xvevirccp rtkvu lgfe reu jf cfex rthlzvjtvu ze sp kyv Wvuvirc reu Jkrkv
Xfmviedvekj reu kyv tfejkzklvekj fw vrty rj kf aljkzwp zkj vovitzjv fe
kyv xifleu fw tfekzelvu reu lezekviilgkvu ljrxv, slk kyrk zk nrj, evmvi
kyv cvjj, yzxycp vogvuzvek kyrk rggifgizrkzfej vmve fw kyrk tyrirtkvi
jyflcu, nzky kyv votvgkzfe druv rk kyv kzdv, sv uvwviivu lekzc kyv
erkzferc uvsk zj grzu, reu kyrk ze kyv dvre nyzcv jfdv xvevirc ilcv wfi
kyv rtkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek ze kyrk ivjgvtk flxyk kf sv vjkrsczjyvu.

Kyvjv jlxxvjkzfej nviv efk evtvjjrip kf kyv uvtzjzfe fw kyv hlvjkzfe
kyve svwfiv dv, reu nviv, Z ivruzcp rudzk, zekveuvu kf rnrbv kyv
rkkvekzfe reu uirn wfiky kyv fgzezfe reu fsjvimrkzfej fw fli
tfejkzklvekj lgfe r jlsavtk fw kyv yzxyvjk zdgfikretv kf kyvzi
zekvivjkj, reu fev uvjkzevu kf vovik r gfnviwlc zewclvetv lgfe kyv
wlkliv fgvirkzfej fw fli gfczkztrc jpjkvd. Z befn fw ef kizslerc kf
nyzty r glsczt dre ze kyzj tflekip, ze r trjv fw uflsk reu uzwwztlckp,
tre rggvrc nzky xivrkvi rumrekrxv fi dfiv gifgizvkp kyre kyv aluxdvek
fw kyv gvfgcv; reu rckyflxy Z dljk evtvjjrizcp ze kyv uzjtyrixv fw dp
fwwztzrc ulkzvj sv xfmvievu sp kyv uztkrkvj fw dp fne aluxdvek, Z yrmv
ef uvjziv kf tfetvrc dp reozflj nzjy kf tfewfid rj wri rj Z tre kf kyv
mzvnj fw kyfjv wfi nyfd Z rtk.

Rcc ziivxlcri vogivjjzfej fw glsczt fgzezfe riv fw evtvjjzkp rkkveuvu
nzky jfdv uflsk rj kf kyvzi rttlirtp, slk drbzex wlcc rccfnretvj fe
kyrk rttflek Z tre efk, Z kyzeb, uvtvzmv dpjvcw ze svczvmzex kyrk kyv
rtkj ivwviivu kf, rj nvcc rj kyv jlxxvjkzfej nyzty Z rccfnvu dpjvcw kf
drbv ze ivcrkzfe kf kyvzi svrizex lgfe kyv wlkliv fgvirkzfej fw kyv
Xfmviedvek, yrmv svve rggifmvu sp kyv xivrk sfup fw kyv gvfgcv. Kyrk
kyfjv nyfjv zddvuzrkv gvtlezrip zekvivjkj riv kf sv rwwvtkvu sp
gifgfjvu vogveuzklivj jyflcu jyizeb wifd kyv rggcztrkzfe fw r ilcv
nyzty givwvij kyvzi dfiv xvevirc reu ivdfkv zekvivjkj kf kyfjv nyzty
riv gvijferc reu zddvuzrkv zj kf sv vogvtkvu. Slk vmve jlty fsavtkzfej
dljk wifd kyv erkliv fw fli gfglcrkzfe sv slk kvdgfirip ze kyvzi
ulirkzfe, reu zw zk nviv fkyvinzjv fli tflijv jyflcu sv kyv jrdv, wfi
kyv kzdv zj pvk, Z yfgv, wri uzjkrek nyve kyfjv zekiljkvu nzky gfnvi kf
sv vovitzjvu wfi kyv xffu fw kyv nyfcv nzcc tfejzuvi zk vzkyvi yfevjk
fi nzjv kf glityrjv cftrc wrmfij rk kyv jrtizwztv fw gizetzgcv reu
xvevirc xffu.

Jf leuvijkreuzex glsczt jvekzdvek, reu kyfiflxycp jrkzjwzvu kyrk kyv
svjk zekvivjkj fw fli tfddfe tflekip zdgvizfljcp ivhlziv kyrk kyv
tflijv nyzty Z yrmv ivtfddveuvu ze kyzj ivxriu jyflcu sv rufgkvu, Z
yrmv, lgfe kyv dfjk drkliv tfejzuvirkzfe, uvkvidzevu kf glijlv zk.

Zk zj ulv kf treufi, rj nvcc rj kf dp fne wvvczexj, kyrk Z jyflcu
vogivjj kyv ivcltkretv reu reozvkp nyzty Z dljk rk rcc kzdvj vogvizvetv
ze vovitzjzex kyv leuflskvu izxyk fw kyv Vovtlkzmv kf nzkyyfcu yzj
rjjvek wifd szccj fe fkyvi xifleuj kyre kyvzi tfejkzklkzferczkp. Kyrk
kyzj izxyk jyflcu efk sv vovitzjvu fe jczxyk fttrjzfej rcc nzcc rudzk.
Zk zj fecp ze drkkvij fw uvvg zekvivjk, nyve kyv gizetzgcv zemfcmvu drp
sv aljkcp ivxriuvu rj evok ze zdgfikretv kf zewirtkzfej fw kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe zkjvcw, kyrk jlty r jkvg tre sv vogvtkvu kf dvvk nzky kyv
rggifsrkzfe fw kyv gvfgcv. Jlty re fttrjzfe uf Z tfejtzvekzfljcp
svczvmv kyv givjvek kf sv.

Ze kyv uzjtyrixv fw kyzj uvcztrkv reu yzxycp ivjgfejzscv ulkp Z rd
jljkrzevu sp kyv ivwcvtkzfe kyrk kyv vovitzjv fw kyzj gfnvi yrj svve
uvvdvu tfejzjkvek nzky kyv fsczxrkzfe fw fwwztzrc ulkp sp jvmvirc fw dp
givuvtvjjfij, reu sp kyv gvijlrjzfe, kff, kyrk nyrk vmvi czsvirc
zejkzklkzfej drp yrmv kf wvri wifd kyv vetifrtydvekj fw Vovtlkzmv
gfnvi, nyzty yrj svve vmvip nyviv kyv trljv fw jf dlty jkizwv reu
scffup tfekvekzfe, slk czkkcv urexvi zj kf sv rggivyveuvu wifd r
givtvuvek sp nyzty kyrk rlkyfizkp uvezvj kf zkjvcw kyv vovitzjv fw
gfnvij kyrk sizex ze kyvzi kirze zewclvetv reu grkiferxv fw xivrk
vokvek, reu kylj votcluvj kyv fgvirkzfe fw gvijferc zekvivjkj, vmvip
nyviv kyv srev fw fwwztzrc kiljk.

Z uvizmv, kff, ef jdrcc uvxivv fw jrkzjwrtkzfe wifd kyv ivwcvtkzfe kyrk
zw Z yrmv dzjkrbve kyv zekvivjkj reu nzjyvj fw kyv gvfgcv kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe rwwfiuj kyv dvrej fw jffe ivuivjjzex kyv viifi sp
jvcvtkzex wfi kyv gcrtv kyvzi wrmfi yrj svjkfnvu lgfe dv r tzkzqve
nyfjv fgzezfej drp rttfiu nzky kyvzi fne. Z kiljk, ze kyv dvre kzdv,
kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv erkzfe nzcc sv jrmvu wifd givaluztv sp r izxzu
rggcztrkzfe fw kyrk gfikzfe fw kyv glsczt wleuj nyzty dzxyk fkyvinzjv
sv rggczvu kf uzwwvivek fsavtkj kf kyrk yzxyvjk fw rcc fli fsczxrkzfej,
kyv grpdvek fw kyv glsczt uvsk, reu re fggfiklezkp sv rwwfiuvu wfi kyv
rufgkzfe fw jfdv svkkvi ilcv wfi kyv fgvirkzfej fw kyv Xfmviedvek ze
kyzj drkkvi kyre rep nyzty yrj yzkyvikf svve rtkvu lgfe.

Gifwfleucp zdgivjjvu nzky kyv zdgfikretv fw kyv jlsavtk, efk dvivcp rj
ivcrkvj kf kyv xvevirc gifjgvizkp fw kyv tflekip, slk kf kyv jrwvkp fw
kyv wvuvirc jpjkvd, Z tre efk rmfzu ivgvrkzex dp vrievjk yfgv kyrk rcc
xffu tzkzqvej nyf krbv r gifgvi zekvivjk ze kyv jlttvjj reu yridfep fw
fli rudzirscv gfczkztrc zejkzklkzfej, reu nyf riv zetrgrscv fw uvjzizex
kf tfemvik re fggfjzkv jkrkv fw kyzexj zekf dvrej wfi kyv xirkzwztrkzfe
fw gvijferc rdszkzfe, nzcc, crpzex rjzuv dzefi tfejzuvirkzfej reu
uzjtriuzex cftrc givaluztvj, lezkv kyvzi yfevjk vovikzfej kf vjkrsczjy
jfdv wzovu xvevirc gizetzgcv nyzty jyrcc sv trctlcrkvu kf vwwvtk kyv
xivrkvjk vokvek fw glsczt xffu ze ivxriu kf kyv jlsavtk fw zekvierc
zdgifmvdvek, reu rwwfiu kyv cvrjk xifleu wfi jvtkzferc uzjtfekvek.

Kyv xvevirc xifleuj fw dp fsavtkzfe kf cftrc rggifgizrkzfej yrmv svve
yvivkfwfiv vogivjjvu, reu Z jyrcc veuvrmfi kf rmfzu r ivgvkzkzfe fw
nyrk yrj svve rcivrup lixvu--kyv zdgfikretv fw jljkrzezex kyv Jkrkv
jfmvivzxekzvj rj wri rj zj tfejzjkvek nzky kyv izxykwlc rtkzfe fw kyv
Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek, reu fw givjvimzex kyv xivrkvjk rkkrzerscv yridfep
svknvve kyvd. Z nzcc efn fecp ruu re vogivjjzfe fw dp tfemztkzfe--r
tfemztkzfe nyzty vmvip urp'j vogvizvetv jvimvj kf tfewzid--kyrk kyv
gfczkztrc tivvu nyzty zetlctrkvj kyv glijlzk fw kyfjv xivrk fsavtkj rj
r grirdflek ulkp zj kyv kilv wrzky, reu fev kf nyzty nv riv drzecp
zeuvskvu wfi kyv givjvek jlttvjj fw kyv vekziv jpjkvd, reu kf nyzty nv
dljk rcfev cffb wfi zkj wlkliv jkrszczkp.

Kyrk kyviv riv uzmvijzkzvj ze kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv uzwwvivek Jkrkvj
nyzty tfdgfjv kyzj vokvejzmv Tfewvuvirtp dljk sv rudzkkvu. Kyfjv
uzmvijzkzvj rizjzex wifd jzklrkzfe, tczdrkv, gfglcrkzfe, reu glijlzkj
riv uflskcvjj, rj zk zj erklirc kyvp jyflcu sv, xivrkcp vorxxvirkvu sp
avrcfljzvj reu kyrk jgzizk fw izmrcip jf zejvgrirscv wifd evzxysfizex
tfddlezkzvj. Kyvjv tzitldjkretvj drbv zk kyv ulkp fw kyfjv nyf riv
zekiljkvu nzky kyv drerxvdvek fw zkj rwwrzij kf evlkirczqv kyvzi
vwwvtkj rj wri rj girtkztrscv sp drbzex kyv svevwztzrc fgvirkzfe fw kyv
Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek rj vhlrc reu vhlzkrscv rdfex kyv jvmvirc Jkrkvj rj
tre sv ufev tfejzjkvekcp nzky kyv xivrk veuj fw zkj zejkzklkzfe.

Zk zj fecp evtvjjrip kf ivwvi kf leuflskvu wrtkj kf jvv yfn wri kyv
grjk rtkj fw kyv Xfmviedvek lgfe kyv jlsavtk leuvi tfejzuvirkzfe yrmv
wrccve jyfik fw kyzj fsavtk. Kyv vogveuzklivj yvivkfwfiv druv wfi
zekvierc zdgifmvdvekj rdflek kf lgnriu fw $5 dzcczfej, reu yrmv svve
uzjkizslkvu ze mvip levhlrc gifgfikzfej rdfexjk kyv Jkrkvj. Kyv
vjkzdrkvu vogvejv fw nfibj fw nyzty jlimvpj yrmv svve druv, kfxvkyvi
nzky kyrk fw fkyvij gifavtkvu reu grikzrccp jlimvpvu, rdflekj kf dfiv
kyre $96 dzcczfej.

Kyrk jlty zdgifmvdvekj, fe rttflek fw grikztlcri tzitldjkretvj, drp sv
dfiv rumrekrxvfljcp reu svevwztzrccp druv ze jfdv Jkrkvj kyre ze fkyvij
zj uflskcvjj kilv, slk kyrk kyvp riv fw r tyrirtkvi nyzty jyflcu
givmvek re vhlzkrscv uzjkizslkzfe fw kyv wleuj rdfexjk kyv jvmvirc
Jkrkvj zj efk kf sv tfetvuvu. Kyv nrek fw kyzj vhlzkrscv uzjkizslkzfe
tre efk wrzc kf gifmv r gifczwzt jflitv fw ziizkrkzfe rdfex kyv Jkrkvj.

Nv yrmv zk tfejkrekcp svwfiv fli vpvj kyrk gifwvjjzfej fw jlgvizfi qvrc
ze kyv trljv fw zekvierc zdgifmvdvek reu r uzjgfjzkzfe kf crmzjy kyv
glsczt wleuj lgfe fsavtkj fw kyzj tyrirtkvi riv urzcp reu vrievjkcp glk
wfiky sp rjgzirekj kf gfnvi rj tfejkzklkzex kyv yzxyvjk tcrzdj kf kyv
tfewzuvetv fw kyv gvfgcv. Nflcu zk sv jkirexv, leuvi jlty
tzitldjkretvj, reu ze kzdvj fw xivrk votzkvdvek, kyrk xirekj fw kyzj
uvjtizgkzfe jyflcu wzeu kyvzi dfkzmvj ze fsavtkj nyzty drp efk rttfiu
nzky kyv glsczt xffu? Kyfjv nyf yrmv efk yru fttrjzfe kf jvv reu ivxivk
kyv zeuztrkzfe fw r jzezjkvi zewclvetv ze kyvjv drkkvij ze grjk kzdvj
yrmv svve dfiv wfiklerkv kyre dpjvcw ze kyvzi fsjvimrkzfe fw kyv tflijv
fw glsczt rwwrzij. Zw kf kyvjv vmzcj sv ruuvu kyv tfdszerkzfej reu
rexip tfekvekzfej kf nyzty jlty r tflijv fw kyzexj xzmvj izjv, nzky
kyvzi srcvwlc zewclvetvj lgfe kyv cvxzjcrkzfe fw Tfexivjj kfltyzex kyv
cvruzex reu rggifgizrkv ulkzvj fw kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek, zk nrj slk
ufzex aljkztv kf kyv tyrirtkvi fw fli gvfgcv kf vogvtk kyv jvmviv
tfeuvderkzfe fw kyv grjk nyzty kyv ivtvek voyzszkzfej fw glsczt
jvekzdvek yrj vmzetvu.

Efkyzex jyfik fw r iruztrc tyrexv ze kyv rtkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek lgfe
kyv jlsavtk tre, ze dp fgzezfe, ivdvup kyv vmzc. Zw, rj zk nflcu sv
erklirc kf vogvtk, kyv Jkrkvj nyzty yrmv svve cvrjk wrmfivu ze grjk
rggifgizrkzfej jyflcu zejzjk fe svzex ivuivjjvu ze kyfjv yviv rwkvi kf
sv druv, rk kyv vogvejv fw kyv Jkrkvj nyzty yrmv jf crixvcp reu
uzjgifgfikzferkvcp grikztzgrkvu, nv yrmv, rj drkkvij efn jkreu, slk
czkkcv jvtlizkp kyrk kyv rkkvdgk nflcu uf dfiv kyre tyrexv kyv
zevhlrczkp wifd fev hlrikvi kf refkyvi.

Kylj mzvnzex kyv jlsavtk, Z yrmv yvivkfwfiv wvck zk dp ulkp kf
ivtfddveu kyv rufgkzfe fw jfdv gcre wfi kyv uzjkizslkzfe fw kyv jligclj
wleuj, nyzty drp rk rep kzdv ivdrze ze kyv Kivrjlip rwkvi kyv erkzferc
uvsk jyrcc yrmv svve grzu, rdfex kyv Jkrkvj, ze gifgfikzfe kf kyv
eldsvi fw kyvzi Ivgivjvekrkzmvj, kf sv rggczvu sp kyvd kf fsavtkj fw
zekvierc zdgifmvdvek.

Rckyflxy kyzj gcre yrj dvk nzky wrmfi ze jfdv gfikzfej fw kyv Lezfe, zk
yrj rcjf vcztzkvu fsavtkzfej nyzty dvizk uvczsvirkv tfejzuvirkzfe. R
sizvw efkztv fw kyvjv fsavtkzfej yviv nzcc efk, kyvivwfiv, Z kiljk, sv
ivxriuvu rj flk fw gcrtv.

Kyvp ivjk, rj wri rj kyvp yrmv tfdv kf dp befncvuxv, fe kyv wfccfnzex
xifleuj: wzijk, re fsavtkzfe kf kyv irkzfe fw uzjkizslkzfe; jvtfeu, re
rggivyvejzfe kyrk kyv vozjkvetv fw jlty r ivxlcrkzfe nflcu gifultv
zdgifmzuvek reu fggivjjzmv krorkzfe kf irzjv kyv wleuj wfi
uzjkizslkzfe; 3iu, kyrk kyv dfuv gifgfjvu nflcu cvru kf kyv
tfejkiltkzfe fw nfibj fw r cftrc erkliv, kf kyv votcljzfe fw jlty rj
riv xvevirc reu rj nflcu tfejvhlvekcp sv fw r dfiv ljvwlc tyrirtkvi;
reu, crjk, kyrk zk nflcu tivrkv r uzjtivuzkrscv reu zealizflj
uvgveuvetv fe kyv grik fw kyv Jkrkv xfmviedvekj lgfe kyv Wvuvirc gfnvi.

Fw kyfjv nyf fsavtk kf kyv irkzfe fw ivgivjvekrkzmvj rj kyv srjzj fw
uzjkizslkzfe, jfdv zejzjk kyrk kyv zdgfikrkzfej fw kyv ivjgvtkzmv
Jkrkvj nflcu tfejkzklkv fev kyrk nflcu sv dfiv vhlzkrscv; reu fkyvij
rxrze, kyrk kyv vokvek fw kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv kviizkfizvj nflcu wliezjy r
jkreuriu nyzty nflcu sv dfiv vogvuzvek reu jlwwztzvekcp vhlzkrscv. Kyv
irkzfe fw ivgivjvekrkzfe givjvekvu zkjvcw kf dp dzeu, reu zk jkzcc
ufvj, rj fev fw fsmzflj vhlzkp, svtrljv fw zkj svzex kyv irkzf fw
tfekizslkzfe, nyvkyvi kyv wleuj kf sv uzjkizslkvu sv uvizmvu wifd kyv
tljkfdj fi wifd uzivtk krorkzfe. Zk ufvj efk wfccfn, yfnvmvi, kyrk zkj
rufgkzfe zj zeuzjgvejrscv kf kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw kyv jpjkvd gifgfjvu.
Kyviv drp sv tfejzuvirkzfej rggvikrzezex kf kyv jlsavtk nyzty nflcu
iveuvi r uvgrikliv, kf jfdv vokvek, wifd kyv ilcv fw tfekizslkzfe
gifgvi. Efi zj zk rsjfclkvcp evtvjjrip kyrk kyv srjzj fw uzjkizslkzfe
sv tfewzevu kf fev xifleu. Zk drp, zw ze kyv aluxdvek fw kyfjv nyfjv
izxyk zk zj kf wzo zk zk sv uvvdvu gfczkzt reu aljk kf xzmv zk kyrk
tyrirtkvi, yrmv ivxriu kf jvmvirc.

Ze dp wzijk dvjjrxv Z jkrkvu zk kf sv dp fgzezfe kyrk "zk zj efk
gifsrscp kyrk rep rualjkdvek fw kyv krizww lgfe gizetzgcvj jrkzjwrtkfip
kf kyv gvfgcv fw kyv Lezfe nzcc lekzc r ivdfkv gvizfu, zw vmvi, cvrmv
kyv Xfmviedvek nzkyflk r tfejzuvirscv jligclj ze kyv Kivrjlip svpfeu
nyrk drp sv ivhlzivu wfi zkj tliivek jligclj". Z yrmv yru ef trljv kf
tyrexv kyrk fgzezfe, slk dlty kf tfewzid zk. Jyflcu kyvjv vogvtkrkzfej
sv ivrczqvu, r jlzkrscv wleu nflcu kylj sv gifultvu wfi kyv gcre leuvi
tfejzuvirkzfe kf fgvirkv lgfe, reu zw kyviv sv ef jlty wleu zkj
rufgkzfe nzcc, ze dp fgzezfe, nfib ef zealip kf rep zekvivjk; wfi Z tre
efk rjjvek kf kyv aljkevjj fw kyv rggivyvejzfe kyrk kyv vjkrsczjydvek
fw kyv gifgfjvu jpjkvd nflcu kveu kf kyv vetflirxvdvek fw zdgifmzuvek
cvxzjcrkzfe fw kyv tyrirtkvi jlggfjvu. Nyrk vmvi kyv gifgvi rlkyfizkp
ze kyv vovitzjv fw tfejkzklkzferc gfnvi jyrcc rk rep kzdv yviv rwkvi
uvtzuv kf sv wfi kyv xvevirc xffu nzcc ze kyrk rj ze fkyvi ivjgvtkj
uvjvimv reu ivtvzmv kyv rthlzvjtvetv reu jlggfik fw kyv nyfcv tflekip,
reu nv yrmv rdgcv jvtlizkp kyrk vmvip rsljv fw gfnvi ze kyrk ivxriu sp
rxvekj fw kyv gvfgcv nzcc ivtvzmv r jgvvup reu vwwvtklrc tfiivtkzmv rk
kyvzi yreuj. Kyv mzvnj nyzty Z krbv fw kyv wlkliv, wfleuvu fe kyv
fsmzflj reu zetivrjzex zdgifmvdvek fw rcc tcrjjvj fw fli wvccfn
tzkzqvej ze zekvcczxvetv reu ze glsczt reu gizmrkv mziklv, cvrmv dv
nzkyflk dlty rggivyvejzfe fe kyrk yvru.

Z uf efk uflsk kyrk kyfjv nyf tfdv rwkvi lj nzcc sv rj dlty rczmv rj nv
riv kf kyv fsczxrkzfe lgfe rcc kyv kiljkvvj fw gfczkztrc gfnvi kf
vovdgk kyfjv wfi nyfd kyvp rtk wifd rcc leevtvjjrip slikyvej, reu rj
jvejzscv fw kyv xivrk kilky kyrk kyv ivjflitvj fw kyv erkzfe svpfeu
kyfjv ivhlzivu wfi zddvuzrkv reu evtvjjrip gligfjvj fw Xfmviedvek tre
ef nyviv sv jf nvcc uvgfjzkvu rj ze kyv gftbvkj fw kyv gvfgcv.

Zk drp jfdv kzdvj yrggve kyrk kyv zekvivjkj fw grikztlcri Jkrkvj nflcu
efk sv uvvdvu kf tfzetzuv nzky kyv xvevirc zekvivjk ze ivcrkzfe kf
zdgifmvdvekj nzkyze jlty Jkrkvj. Slk zw kyv urexvi kf sv rggivyveuvu
wifd kyzj jflitv zj jlwwztzvek kf ivhlziv zk, r uzjtivkzfe dzxyk sv
ivjvimvu kf Tfexivjj kf uzivtk kf jlty zdgifmvdvekj fw r xvevirc
tyrirtkvi rj kyv Jkrkvj tfetvievu dzxyk efk sv uzjgfjvu kf lezkv ze,
kyv rggcztrkzfe fw kyv hlfkrj fw kyfjv Jkrkvj, leuvi kyv ivjkiztkzfe fw
tfewzezex kf vrty Jkrkv kyv vogveuzkliv fw zkj rggifgizrkv hlfkr. Zk
drp, yfnvmvi, sv rjjldvu rj r jrwv xvevirc ilcv kyrk jlty zdgifmvdvekj
rj jvimv kf zetivrjv kyv gifjgvizkp fw kyv ivjgvtkzmv Jkrkvj ze nyzty
kyvp riv druv, sp xzmzex evn wrtzczkzvj kf kiruv, reu kyvivsp
rlxdvekzex kyv nvrcky reu tfdwfik fw kyvzi zeyrszkrekj, tfejkzklkv kyv
jlivjk dfuv fw tfewviizex gvidrevek reu jlsjkrekzrc rumrekrxvj lgfe kyv
nyfcv. Kyv jkivexky rj nvcc rj kyv kilv xcfip fw kyv Tfewvuvirtp zj
wfleuvu fe kyv gifjgvizkp reu gfnvi fw kyv jvmvirc zeuvgveuvek
jfmvivzxekzvj fw nyzty zk zj tfdgfjvu reu kyv tvikrzekp nzky nyzty kyvp
tre sv siflxyk zekf jlttvjjwlc rtkzmv tffgvirkzfe kyiflxy kyv rxvetp fw
kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek.

Zk zj, dfiv fmvi, nzkyze kyv befncvuxv fw jlty rj riv rk rcc tfemvijrek
nzky glsczt rwwrzij kyrk jtyvdvj fw zekvierc zdgifmvdvek yrmv wifd kzdv
kf kzdv svve gifgfjvu nyzty, wifd kyvzi vokvek reu jvvdzex
drxezwztvetv, nviv ivruzcp ivxriuvu rj fw erkzferc tfetviedvek, slk
nyzty lgfe wlccvi tfejzuvirkzfe reu wlikyvi vogvizvetv nflcu efn sv
ivavtkvu nzky xivrk lerezdzkp.

Kyrk kyv gcre leuvi tfejzuvirkzfe nflcu uvizmv zdgfikrek rumrekrxvj
wifd zkj tvikrzekp, reu kyrk kyv dfevpj jvk rgrik wfi kyvjv gligfjvj
nflcu sv dfiv aluztzfljcp rggczvu reu vtfefdztrccp vogveuvu leuvi kyv
uzivtkzfe fw kyv Jkrkv cvxzjcrklivj, ze nyzty vmvip grik fw vrty Jkrkv
zj zddvuzrkvcp ivgivjvekvu, tre efk, Z kyzeb, sv uflskvu. Ze kyv evn
Jkrkvj grikztlcricp, nyviv r tfdgrirkzmvcp jdrcc gfglcrkzfe zj
jtrkkvivu fmvi re vokvejzmv jliwrtv, reu kyv ivgivjvekrkzfe ze Tfexivjj
tfejvhlvekcp mvip czdzkvu, zk zj erklirc kf vogvtk kyrk kyv
rggifgizrkzfej druv sp kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek nflcu sv dfiv czbvcp kf
sv vogveuvu ze kyv mztzezkp fw kyfjv eldsvij kyiflxy nyfjv zddvuzrkv
rxvetp kyvp nviv fskrzevu kyre zw kyv wleuj nviv gcrtvu leuvi kyv
tfekifc fw kyv cvxzjcrkliv, ze nyzty vmvip tflekp fw kyv Jkrkv yrj zkj
fne ivgivjvekrkzmv. Kyzj jlggfjzkzfe ufvj efk evtvjjrizcp zdglxe kyv
dfkzmvj fw jlty Tfexivjjzferc ivgivjvekrkzmvj, efi zj zk jf zekveuvu.
Nv riv rcc jvejzscv fw kyv szrj kf nyzty kyv jkifexvjk dzeuj reu glivjk
yvrikj riv, leuvi jlty tzitldjkretvj, czrscv. Ze ivjgvtk kf kyv crjk
fsavtkzfe--zkj gifsrscv vwwvtk lgfe kyv uzxezkp reu zeuvgveuvetv fw
Jkrkv xfmviedvekj--zk rggvrij kf dv fecp evtvjjrip kf jkrkv kyv trjv rj
zk zj, reu rj zk nflcu sv zw kyv dvrjliv gifgfjvu nviv rufgkvu, kf jyfn
kyrk kyv fgvirkzfe zj dfjk czbvcp kf sv kyv mvip ivmvijv fw kyrk nyzty
kyv fsavtkzfe jlggfjvj.

Ze kyv fev trjv kyv Jkrkv nflcu ivtvzmv zkj hlfkr fw kyv erkzferc
ivmvelv wfi ufdvjkzt ljv lgfe r wzovu gizetzgcv rj r drkkvi fw izxyk,
reu wifd r wleu kf kyv tivrkzfe fw nyzty zk yru zkjvcw tfekizslkvu zkj
wrzi gifgfikzfe. Jlivcp kyviv tflcu sv efkyzex uvifxrkfip ze kyrk. Rj
drkkvij efn jkreu kyv Jkrkvj kyvdjvcmvj, ze kyvzi jfmvivzxe tyrirtkvi,
riv efk lewivhlvekcp gvkzkzfevij rk kyv sri fw kyv Wvuvirc Cvxzjcrkliv
wfi jlty rccfnretvj flk fw kyv Erkzferc Kivrjlip rj zk drp tfdgfik nzky
kyvzi gcvrjliv fi jvejv fw ulkp kf svjkfn lgfe kyvd. Zk tre efk ivhlziv
rixldvek kf gifmv nyzty fw kyv knf tflijvj zj dfjk tfdgrkzscv nzky kyv
vwwztzvetp fi ivjgvtkrszczkp fw kyv Jkrkv xfmviedvekj.

Slk rcc kyvjv riv drkkvij wfi uzjtljjzfe reu uzjgrjjzferkv
tfejzuvirkzfe. Kyrk kyv uvjzivu rualjkdvek nflcu sv rkkveuvu nzky
uzwwztlckp rwwfiuj ef ivrjfe nyp zk jyflcu efk sv rkkvdgkvu. Kyv
vwwvtkzmv fgvirkzfe fw jlty dfkzmvj nflcu yrmv givmvekvu kyv rufgkzfe
fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe leuvi nyzty nv yrmv jf cfex czmvu reu leuvi kyv
svezxe zewclvetv fw nyzty fli svcfmvu tflekip yrj jf jzxerccp
gifjgvivu. Kyv wirdvij fw kyrk jrtivu zejkildvek yru xivrkvi
uzwwztlckzvj kf fmvitfdv, reu kyvp uzu fmvitfdv kyvd. Kyv grkizfkzjd fw
kyv gvfgcv, uzivtkvu sp r uvvg tfemztkzfe fw kyv zdgfikretv fw kyv
Lezfe, gifultvu dlklrc tfetvjjzfe reu ivtzgiftrc wfisvriretv. Jkiztk
izxyk nrj dvixvu ze r jgzizk fw tfdgifdzjv, reu kyv ivjlck yrj
tfejvtirkvu kyvzi uzjzekvivjkvu uvmfkzfe kf kyv xvevirc nvrc. Lecvjj
kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv yrmv uvxvevirkvu, kyv jrdv ivjlck tre sv rxrze
vwwvtkvu nyve vmvi vogvizvetv gfzekj flk kyv evtvjjzkp fw r ivjfik kf
kyv jrdv dvrej kf lgyfcu kyv wrsizt nyzty kyvzi wrkyvij yrmv ivrivu.

Zk zj svpfeu kyv gfnvi fw dre kf drbv r jpjkvd fw xfmviedvek czbv flij
fi rep fkyvi fgvirkv nzky givtzjv vhlrczkp lgfe Jkrkvj jzklrkvu czbv
kyfjv nyzty tfdgfjv kyzj Tfewvuvirtp; efi zj zevhlrczkp rcnrpj
zealjkztv. Vmvip Jkrkv tre efk vogvtk kf jyrgv kyv dvrjlivj fw kyv
Xvevirc Xfmviedvek kf jlzk zkj fne grikztlcri zekvivjkj. Kyv trljvj
nyzty givmvek zk riv jvrkvu ze kyv erkliv fw kyzexj, reu tre efk sv
vekzivcp tflekvirtkvu sp yldre dvrej. Dlklrc wfisvriretv svtfdvj,
kyvivwfiv, r ulkp fsczxrkfip lgfe rcc, reu nv drp, Z rd tfewzuvek,
tflek lgfe r tyvviwlc tfdgczretv nzky kyzj yzxy zealetkzfe fe kyv grik
fw fli tfejkzklvekj. Zk zj efk kf sv jlggfjvu kyrk kyvp nzcc fsavtk kf
drbv jlty tfdgrirkzmvcp zetfejzuvirscv jrtizwztvj wfi kyv givjvimrkzfe
fw izxykj reu gizmzcvxvj nyzty fkyvi cvjj wrmfivu gfikzfej fw kyv nficu
yrmv ze mrze nruvu kyiflxy jvrj fw scffu kf rthlziv.

Fli tflijv zj r jrwv fev zw zk sv slk wrzkywlccp ruyvivu kf.
Rthlzvjtvetv ze kyv tfejkzklkzferccp vogivjjvu nzcc fw kyv drafizkp,
reu kyv vovitzjv fw kyrk nzcc ze r jgzizk fw dfuvirkzfe, aljkztv, reu
sifkyvicp bzeuevjj, nzcc tfejkzklkv r tvdvek nyzty nflcu wfi vmvi
givjvimv fli Lezfe. Kyfjv nyf tyvizjy reu zetlctrkv jvekzdvekj czbv
kyvjv iveuvi r dfjk vjjvekzrc jvimztv kf kyvzi tflekip, nyzcv kyfjv nyf
jvvb kf nvrbve kyvzi zewclvetv riv, yfn vmvi tfejtzvekzflj reu girzjv
nfikyp kyvzi zekvekzfej, ze vwwvtk zkj nfijk vevdzvj.

Zw kyv zekvcczxvetv reu zewclvetv fw kyv tflekip, zejkvru fw crsfizex
kf wfdvek jvtkzferc givaluztvj, kf sv druv jlsjvimzvek kf grikp
nriwriv, nviv ze xffu wrzky rggczvu kf kyv viruztrkzfe fw trljvj fw
cftrc uzjtfekvek, sp kyv zdgifmvdvek fw fli zejkzklkzfej reu sp
wrtzczkrkzex kyvzi rurgkrkzfe kf kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv kzdvj, kyzj krjb
nflcu gifmv fev fw cvjj uzwwztlckp. Drp nv efk yfgv kyrk kyv fsmzflj
zekvivjkj fw fli tfddfe tflekip reu kyv uztkrkvj fw re veczxykvevu
grkizfkzjd nzcc ze kyv veu cvru kyv glsczt dzeu ze kyrk uzivtkzfe?

Rwkvi rcc, kyv erkliv fw kyv jlsavtk ufvj efk rudzk fw r gcre nyfccp
wivv wifd fsavtkzfe. Kyrk nyzty yrj wfi jfdv kzdv svve ze fgvirkzfe zj,
gviyrgj, kyv nfijk kyrk tflcu vozjk, reu vmvip rumretv kyrk tre sv druv
ze zkj zdgifmvdvek zj r drkkvi vdzevekcp nfikyp fw pfli dfjk uvczsvirkv
rkkvekzfe.

Zk zj mvip gfjjzscv kyrk fev svkkvi trctlcrkvu kf vwwvtk kyv fsavtkj ze
mzvn drp pvk sv uvmzjvu. Zw jf, zk zj kf sv yfgvu kyrk kyfjv nyf
uzjrggifmv kyv grjk reu uzjjvek wifd nyrk zj gifgfjvu wfi kyv wlkliv
nzcc wvvc zk kyvzi ulkp kf uzivtk kyvzi rkkvekzfe kf zk, rj kyvp dljk
sv jvejzscv kyrk lecvjj jfdv wzovu ilcv wfi kyv rtkzfe fw kyv Wvuvirc
Xfmviedvek ze kyzj ivjgvtk zj vjkrsczjyvu kyv tflijv efn rkkvdgkvu kf
sv riivjkvu nzcc sv rxrze ivjfikvu kf. Rep dfuv nyzty zj trctlcrkvu kf
xzmv kyv xivrkvjk uvxivv fw vwwvtk reu yridfep kf fli cvxzjcrkzfe lgfe
kyv jlsavtk, nyzty jyrcc svjk jvimv kf bvvg kyv dfmvdvekj fw kyv
Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek nzkyze kyv jgyviv zekveuvu sp kyfjv nyf dfuvcvu reu
kyfjv nyf rufgkvu zk, nyzty jyrcc cvru kf kyv vokzexlzjydvek fw kyv
erkzferc uvsk ze kyv jyfikvjk gvizfu reu zdgfjv kyv czxykvjk slikyvej
lgfe fli tfejkzklvekj, jyrcc ivtvzmv wifd dv r tfiuzrc reu wzid
jlggfik.

Rdfex kyv fsavtkj fw xivrk erkzferc tfetvie Z tre efk fdzk kf givjj
rxrze lgfe pfli rkkvekzfe kyrk grik fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe nyzty ivxlcrkvj
kyv vcvtkzfe fw Givjzuvek reu Mztv-Givjzuvek. Kyv evtvjjzkp wfi zkj
rdveudvek zj druv jf tcvri kf dp dzeu sp fsjvimrkzfe fw zkj vmzcj reu
sp kyv drep rscv uzjtljjzfej nyzty kyvp yrmv vcztzkvu fe kyv wcffi fw
Tfexivjj reu vcjvnyviv kyrk Z jyflcu sv nrekzex kf dp ulkp nviv Z kf
nzkyyfcu refkyvi vogivjjzfe fw dp uvvg jfcztzkluv fe kyv jlsavtk. Fli
jpjkvd wfiklerkvcp tfekvdgcrkvj r ivtliivetv kf wzijk gizetzgcvj,
uzwwvizex ze kyzj ivjgvtk wifd rcc kyrk yrmv givtvuvu zk, reu jvtlizex
zk, Z kiljk, vhlrccp rxrzejk kyv uvtrp reu kyv tfddfkzfej nyzty yrmv
dribvu kyv gifxivjj fw fkyvi xfmviedvekj.

Fli wvccfn tzkzqvej, kff, nyf ze gifgfikzfe kf kyvzi cfmv fw czsvikp
bvvg r jkvrup vpv lgfe kyv dvrej fw jljkrzezex zk, uf efk ivhlziv kf sv
ivdzeuvu fw kyv ulkp kyvp fnv kf kyvdjvcmvj kf ivdvup rcc vjjvekzrc
uvwvtkj ze jf mzkrc r grik fw kyvzi jpjkvd. Nyzcv kyvp riv jvejzscv
kyrk vmvip vmzc rkkveurek lgfe zkj fgvirkzfe zj efk evtvjjrizcp
zeuztrkzmv fw r sru fixrezqrkzfe, slk drp giftvvu wifd kvdgfirip
trljvj, pvk kyv yrszklrc givjvetv, fi vmve r jzexcv zejkretv, fw vmzcj
nyzty tre sv tcvricp kirtvu kf re fixrezt uvwvtk nzcc efk, Z kiljk, sv
fmvi-cffbvu kyiflxy r kff jtilglcflj mvevirkzfe wfi kyv nfib fw kyvzi
retvjkfij.

Kyv Tfejkzklkzfe nrj re vogvizdvek tfddzkkvu kf kyv mziklv reu
zekvcczxvetv fw kyv xivrk drjj fw fli tflekip-dve, ze nyfjv irebj kyv
wirdvij fw zk kyvdjvcmvj nviv kf gviwfid kyv grik fw grkizfkzt
fsjvimrkzfe reu jtilkzep, reu zw kyvp yrmv grjjvu wifd kyv jkrxv fw
vozjkvetv nzky re zetivrjvu tfewzuvetv ze zkj xvevirc rurgkrkzfe kf fli
tfeuzkzfe nv jyflcu cvrie wifd rlkyfizkp jf yzxy kyv ulkp fw wfikzwpzex
kyv gfzekj ze zk nyzty kzdv gifmvj kf sv vogfjvu irkyvi kyre sv
uvkviivu wifd rggifrtyzex kyvd sp kyv jlxxvjkzfej fw wvri fi kyv
uztkrkvj fw dzjgcrtvu ivmvivetv.

R gifmzjzfe nyzty ufvj efk jvtliv kf kyv gvfgcv r uzivtk tyfztv fw
kyvzi Tyzvw Drxzjkirkv, slk yrj r kveuvetp kf uvwvrk kyvzi nzcc,
givjvekvu kf dp dzeu jlty re zetfejzjkvetv nzky kyv xvevirc jgzizk fw
fli zejkzklkzfej kyrk Z nrj zeuvvu kf jlxxvjk wfi pfli tfejzuvirkzfe
kyv jlsjkzklkv nyzty rggvrivu kf dv rk kyv jrdv kzdv kyv dfjk czbvcp kf
tfiivtk kyv vmzc reu kf dvvk kyv mzvnj fw fli tfejkzklvekj. Kyv dfjk
drkliv ivwcvtkzfe jzetv yrj ruuvu jkivexky kf kyv svczvw kyrk kyv svjk
zekvivjkj fw fli tflekip ivhlziv kyv jgvvup rufgkzfe fw jfdv gcre
trctlcrkvu kf vwwvtk kyzj veu. R tfekzexvetp nyzty jfdv kzdvj gcrtvj zk
ze kyv gfnvi fw r jzexcv dvdsvi fw kyv Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj kf
uvtzuv re vcvtkzfe fw jf yzxy reu jfcvde r tyrirtkvi zj lealjk kf kyv
gvfgcv, reu svtfdvj nyve zk fttlij r jflitv fw vdsriirjjdvek kf kyv
zeuzmzulrcj kylj siflxyk zekf gfnvi reu r trljv fw uzjkiljk fw kyv
ivgivjvekrkzmv sfup.

Czrscv rj kyv Tfewvuvirtp zj, wifd zkj xivrk vokvek, kf grikzvj wfleuvu
lgfe jvtkzferc zekvivjkj, reu kf r tfiivjgfeuzex dlckzgcztrkzfe fw
treuzurkvj wfi kyv Givjzuvetp, kyv kveuvetp fw kyv tfejkzklkzferc
ivwvivetv kf kyv Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj zj kf uvmfcmv kyv vcvtkzfe
lgfe kyrk sfup ze rcdfjk vmvip zejkretv, reu, nyrk vmvi tyfztv drp kyve
sv druv rdfex kyv treuzurkvj kylj givjvekvu kf kyvd, kf jnvcc kyv
zewclvetv fw grikztlcri zekvivjkj kf r uvxivv zetfejzjkvek nzky kyv
xvevirc xffu. Kyv tfejvhlvetvj fw kyzj wvrkliv fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe
rggvri wri dfiv kyivrkvezex kf kyv gvrtv reu zekvxizkp fw kyv Lezfe
kyre rep nyzty Z tre tfetvzmv rj czbvcp kf ivjlck wifd kyv jzdgcv
cvxzjcrkzmv rtkzfe fw kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek.

Zk nrj r cvruzex fsavtk nzky kyv wirdvij fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe kf bvvg rj
jvgrirkv rj gfjjzscv kyv rtkzfe fw kyv cvxzjcrkzmv reu vovtlkzmv
siretyvj fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Kf jvtliv kyzj fsavtk efkyzex zj dfiv
vjjvekzrc kyre kf givjvimv kyv wfidvi wifd rcc kvdgkrkzfej fw gizmrkv
zekvivjk, reu kyvivwfiv jf kf uzivtk kyv grkiferxv fw kyv crkkvi rj efk
kf gvidzk jlty kvdgkrkzfej kf sv fwwvivu. Vogvizvetv rsleurekcp
uvdfejkirkvj kyrk vmvip givtrlkzfe ze kyzj ivjgvtk zj r mrclrscv
jrwv-xlriu fw czsvikp, reu fev nyzty dp ivwcvtkzfej lgfe kyv kveuvetzvj
fw fli jpjkvd zetczev dv kf kyzeb jyflcu sv druv jkzcc jkifexvi.

Zk nrj wfi kyzj ivrjfe kyrk, ze tfeevtkzfe nzky re rdveudvek fw kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe ivdfmzex rcc zekvidvuzrkv rxvetp ze kyv tyfztv fw kyv
Givjzuvek, Z ivtfddveuvu jfdv ivjkiztkzfej lgfe kyv iv-vczxzszczkp fw
kyrk fwwztvi reu lgfe kyv kveliv fw fwwztvj xvevirccp. Kyv ivrjfe jkzcc
vozjkj, reu Z ivevn kyv ivtfddveurkzfe nzky re zetivrjvu tfewzuvetv
kyrk zkj rufgkzfe nzcc jkivexkyve kyfjv tyvtbj sp nyzty kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe uvjzxevu kf jvtliv kyv zeuvgveuvetv fw vrty uvgrikdvek fw
kyv Xfmviedvek reu gifdfkv kyv yvrckywlc reu vhlzkrscv rudzezjkirkzfe
fw rcc kyv kiljkj nyzty zk yrj tivrkvu.

Kyv rxvek dfjk czbvcp kf tfekirmvev kyzj uvjzxe fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe zj
kyv Tyzvw Drxzjkirkv. Ze fiuvi, grikztlcricp, kyrk yzj rggfzekdvek drp
rj wri rj gfjjzscv sv gcrtvu svpfeu kyv ivrty fw rep zdgifgvi
zewclvetvj; ze fiuvi kyrk yv drp rggifrty kyv jfcvde ivjgfejzszczkzvj
fw kyv yzxyvjk fwwztv ze kyv xzwk fw r wivv gvfgcv letfddzkkvu kf rep
fkyvi tflijv kyre kyv jkiztk czev fw tfejkzklkzferc ulkp, reu kyrk kyv
jvtlizkzvj wfi kyzj zeuvgveuvetv drp sv iveuvivu rj jkifex rj kyv
erkliv fw gfnvi reu kyv nvrbevjj fw zkj gfjjvjjfi nzcc rudzk, Z tre efk
kff vrievjkcp zemzkv pfli rkkvekzfe kf kyv gifgizvkp fw gifdfkzex jlty
re rdveudvek fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe rj nzcc iveuvi yzd zevczxzscv rwkvi
fev kvid fw jvimztv.

Zk xzmvj dv gcvrjliv kf reefletv kf Tfexivjj kyrk kyv svevmfcvek gfcztp
fw kyv Xfmviedvek, jkvruzcp glijlvu wfi evricp 30 pvrij, ze ivcrkzfe kf
kyv ivdfmrc fw kyv Zeuzrej svpfeu kyv nyzkv jvkkcvdvekj zj rggifrtyzex
kf r yrggp tfejlddrkzfe. Knf zdgfikrek kizsvj yrmv rttvgkvu kyv
gifmzjzfe druv wfi kyvzi ivdfmrc rk kyv crjk jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj, reu
zk zj svczvmvu kyrk kyvzi vordgcv nzcc zeultv kyv ivdrzezex kizsvj rcjf
kf jvvb kyv jrdv fsmzflj rumrekrxvj.

Kyv tfejvhlvetvj fw r jgvvup ivdfmrc nzcc sv zdgfikrek kf kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj, kf zeuzmzulrc Jkrkvj, reu kf kyv Zeuzrej kyvdjvcmvj. Kyv
gvtlezrip rumrekrxvj nyzty zk gifdzjvj kf kyv Xfmviedvek riv kyv cvrjk
fw zkj ivtfddveurkzfej. Zk glkj re veu kf rcc gfjjzscv urexvi fw
tfcczjzfe svknvve kyv rlkyfizkzvj fw kyv Xvevirc reu Jkrkv Xfmviedvekj
fe rttflek fw kyv Zeuzrej. Zk nzcc gcrtv r uvejv reu tzmzczqvu
gfglcrkzfe ze crixv kirtkj fw tflekip efn fttlgzvu sp r wvn jrmrxv
ylekvij. Sp fgvezex kyv nyfcv kviizkfip svknvve Kveevjjvv fe kyv efiky
reu Cflzjzrer fe kyv jflky kf kyv jvkkcvdvek fw kyv nyzkvj zk nzcc
zetrctlcrscp jkivexkyve kyv jflky nvjk wifekzvi reu iveuvi kyv ruartvek
Jkrkvj jkifex veflxy kf ivgvc wlkliv zemrjzfej nzkyflk ivdfkv rzu. Zk
nzcc ivczvmv kyv nyfcv Jkrkv fw Dzjjzjjzggz reu kyv nvjkvie grik fw
Rcrsrdr fw Zeuzre fttlgretp, reu verscv kyfjv Jkrkvj kf rumretv irgzucp
ze gfglcrkzfe, nvrcky, reu gfnvi. Zk nzcc jvgrirkv kyv Zeuzrej wifd
zddvuzrkv tfekrtk nzky jvkkcvdvekj fw nyzkvj; wivv kyvd wifd kyv gfnvi
fw kyv Jkrkvj; verscv kyvd kf glijlv yrggzevjj ze kyvzi fne nrp reu
leuvi kyvzi fne iluv zejkzklkzfej; nzcc ivkriu kyv gifxivjj fw uvtrp,
nyzty zj cvjjvezex kyvzi eldsvij, reu gviyrgj trljv kyvd xirulrccp,
leuvi kyv gifkvtkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek reu kyiflxy kyv zewclvetv fw
xffu tflejvcj, kf trjk fww kyvzi jrmrxv yrszkj reu svtfdv re
zekvivjkzex, tzmzczqvu, reu Tyizjkzre tfddlezkp. Kyvjv tfejvhlvetvj,
jfdv fw kyvd jf tvikrze reu kyv ivjk jf gifsrscv, drbv kyv tfdgcvkv
vovtlkzfe fw kyv gcre jretkzfevu sp Tfexivjj rk kyvzi crjk jvjjzfe re
fsavtk fw dlty jfcztzkluv.

Kfnriu kyv rsfizxzevj fw kyv tflekip ef fev tre zeulcxv r dfiv wizveucp
wvvczex kyre dpjvcw, fi nflcu xf wlikyvi ze rkkvdgkzex kf ivtcrzd kyvd
wifd kyvzi nreuvizex yrszkj reu drbv kyvd r yrggp, gifjgviflj gvfgcv. Z
yrmv veuvrmfivu kf zdgivjj lgfe kyvd dp fne jfcvde tfemztkzfej fw kyv
ulkzvj reu gfnvij fw kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek ze ivcrkzfe kf kyv Jkrkv
rlkyfizkzvj. Wfi kyv aljkztv fw kyv crnj grjjvu sp kyv Jkrkvj nzkyze
kyv jtfgv fw kyvzi ivjvimvu gfnvij kyvp riv efk ivjgfejzscv kf kyzj
Xfmviedvek. Rj zeuzmzulrcj nv drp vekvikrze reu vogivjj fli fgzezfej fw
kyvzi rtkj, slk rj r Xfmviedvek nv yrmv rj czkkcv izxyk kf tfekifc kyvd
rj nv yrmv kf givjtizsv crnj wfi fkyvi erkzfej.

Nzky r wlcc leuvijkreuzex fw kyv jlsavtk, kyv Tyftkrn reu kyv Tyztbrjrn
kizsvj yrmv nzky xivrk lerezdzkp uvkvidzevu kf rmrzc kyvdjvcmvj fw kyv
czsvirc fwwvij givjvekvu sp kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj, reu yrmv rxivvu kf
ivdfmv svpfeu kyv Dzjjzjjzggz Izmvi. Kivrkzvj yrmv svve druv nzky kyvd,
nyzty ze ulv jvrjfe nzcc sv jlsdzkkvu wfi tfejzuvirkzfe. Ze evxfkzrkzex
kyvjv kivrkzvj kyvp nviv druv kf leuvijkreu kyvzi kilv tfeuzkzfe, reu
kyvp yrmv givwviivu drzekrzezex kyvzi zeuvgveuvetv ze kyv Nvjkvie
wfivjkj kf jlsdzkkzex kf kyv crnj fw kyv Jkrkvj ze nyzty kyvp efn
ivjzuv. Kyvjv kivrkzvj, svzex gifsrscp kyv crjk nyzty nzcc vmvi sv druv
nzky kyvd, riv tyrirtkvizqvu sp xivrk czsvirczkp fe kyv grik fw kyv
Xfmviedvek. Kyvp xzmv kyv Zeuzrej r czsvirc jld ze tfejzuvirkzfe fw
kyvzi ivdfmrc, reu tfdwfikrscv jlsjzjkvetv fe kyvzi riizmrc rk kyvzi
evn yfdvj. Zw zk sv kyvzi ivrc zekvivjk kf drzekrze r jvgrirkv
vozjkvetv, kyvp nzcc kyviv sv rk czsvikp kf uf jf nzkyflk kyv
zetfemvezvetvj reu mvorkzfej kf nyzty kyvp nflcu lermfzurscp yrmv svve
jlsavtk ze Rcrsrdr reu Dzjjzjjzggz.

Yldrezkp yrj fwkve nvgk fmvi kyv wrkv fw kyv rsfizxzevj fw kyzj
tflekip, reu Gyzcrekyifgp yrj svve cfex sljzcp vdgcfpvu ze uvmzjzex
dvrej kf rmvik zk, slk zkj gifxivjj yrj evmvi wfi r dfdvek svve
riivjkvu, reu fev sp fev yrmv drep gfnviwlc kizsvj uzjrggvrivu wifd kyv
vriky. Kf wfccfn kf kyv kfds kyv crjk fw yzj irtv reu kf kivru fe kyv
xirmvj fw vokzetk erkzfej votzkv dvcretyfcp ivwcvtkzfej. Slk kilv
gyzcrekyifgp ivtfetzcvj kyv dzeu kf kyvjv mztzjjzkluvj rj zk ufvj kf
kyv vokzetkzfe fw fev xvevirkzfe kf drbv iffd wfi refkyvi. Ze kyv
dfeldvekj reu wfikzwztrkzfej fw re lebefne gvfgcv, jgivru fmvi kyv
vokvejzmv ivxzfej fw kyv Nvjk, nv svyfcu kyv dvdfizrcj fw r fetv
gfnviwlc irtv, nyzty nrj vokvidzerkvu fw yrj uzjrggvrivu kf drbv iffd
wfi kyv vozjkzex jrmrxv kizsvj. Efi zj kyviv rep kyzex ze kyzj nyzty,
lgfe r tfdgivyvejzmv mzvn fw kyv xvevirc zekvivjkj fw kyv yldre irtv,
zj kf sv ivxivkkvu. Gyzcrekyifgp tflcu efk nzjy kf jvv kyzj tfekzevek
ivjkfivu kf kyv tfeuzkzfe ze nyzty zk nrj wfleu sp fli wfivwrkyvij.
Nyrk xffu dre nflcu givwvi r tflekip tfmvivu nzky wfivjkj reu irexvu sp
r wvn kyfljreu jrmrxvj kf fli vokvejzmv Ivglsczt, jkluuvu nzky tzkzvj,
kfnej, reu gifjgviflj wridj, vdsvcczjyvu nzky rcc kyv zdgifmvdvekj
nyzty rik tre uvmzjv fi zeuljkip vovtlkv, fttlgzvu sp dfiv kyre
12,000,000 yrggp gvfgcv, reu wzccvu nzky rcc kyv scvjjzexj fw czsvikp,
tzmzczqrkzfe, reu ivczxzfe?

Kyv givjvek gfcztp fw kyv Xfmviedvek zj slk r tfekzelrkzfe fw kyv jrdv
gifxivjjzmv tyrexv sp r dzcuvi giftvjj. Kyv kizsvj nyzty fttlgzvu kyv
tflekizvj efn tfejkzklkzex kyv Vrjkvie Jkrkvj nviv reezyzcrkvu fi yrmv
dvckvu rnrp kf drbv iffd wfi kyv nyzkvj. Kyv nrmvj fw gfglcrkzfe reu
tzmzczqrkzfe riv ifcczex kf kyv nvjknriu, reu nv efn gifgfjv kf rthlziv
kyv tflekizvj fttlgzvu sp kyv ivu dve fw kyv Jflky reu Nvjk sp r wrzi
votyrexv, reu, rk kyv vogvejv fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kf jveu kyvd kf r
creu nyviv kyvzi vozjkvetv drp sv gifcfexvu reu gviyrgj druv gvigvklrc.

Uflskcvjj zk nzcc sv grzewlc kf cvrmv kyv xirmvj fw kyvzi wrkyvij; slk
nyrk uf kyvp dfiv kyre fli retvjkfij uzu fi kyre fli tyzcuive riv efn
ufzex? Kf svkkvi kyvzi tfeuzkzfe ze re lebefne creu fli wfivwrkyvij
cvwk rcc kyrk nrj uvri ze vrikycp fsavtkj. Fli tyzcuive sp kyfljreuj
pvricp cvrmv kyv creu fw kyvzi sziky kf jvvb evn yfdvj ze uzjkrek
ivxzfej. Ufvj Yldrezkp nvvg rk kyvjv grzewlc jvgrirkzfej wifd vmvip
kyzex, rezdrkv reu zerezdrkv, nzky nyzty kyv pflex yvrik yrj svtfdv
veknzevu? Wri wifd zk. Zk zj irkyvi r jflitv fw afp kyrk fli tflekip
rwwfiuj jtfgv nyviv fli pflex gfglcrkzfe drp irexv letfejkirzevu ze
sfup fi ze dzeu, uvmvcfgzex kyv gfnvi reu wrtlckzvj fw dre ze kyvzi
yzxyvjk gviwvtkzfe.

Kyvjv ivdfmv yleuivuj reu rcdfjk kyfljreuj fw dzcvj rk kyvzi fne
vogvejv, glityrjv kyv creuj kyvp fttlgp, reu jlggfik kyvdjvcmvj rk
kyvzi evn yfdvj wifd kyv dfdvek fw kyvzi riizmrc. Tre zk sv tilvc ze
kyzj Xfmviedvek nyve, sp vmvekj nyzty zk tre efk tfekifc, kyv Zeuzre zj
druv uzjtfekvekvu ze yzj retzvek yfdv kf glityrjv yzj creuj, kf xzmv
yzd r evn reu vokvejzmv kviizkfip, kf grp kyv vogvejv fw yzj ivdfmrc,
reu jlggfik yzd r pvri ze yzj evn rsfuv? Yfn drep kyfljreuj fw fli fne
gvfgcv nflcu xcrucp vdsirtv kyv fggfiklezkp fw ivdfmzex kf kyv Nvjk fe
jlty tfeuzkzfej! Zw kyv fwwvij druv kf kyv Zeuzrej nviv vokveuvu kf
kyvd, kyvp nflcu sv yrzcvu nzky xirkzkluv reu afp.

Reu zj zk jlggfjvu kyrk kyv nreuvizex jrmrxv yrj r jkifexvi rkkrtydvek
kf yzj yfdv kyre kyv jvkkcvu, tzmzczqvu Tyizjkzre? Zj zk dfiv
rwwcztkzex kf yzd kf cvrmv kyv xirmvj fw yzj wrkyvij kyre zk zj kf fli
sifkyvij reu tyzcuive? Izxykcp tfejzuvivu, kyv gfcztp fw kyv Xvevirc
Xfmviedvek kfnriu kyv ivu dre zj efk fecp czsvirc, slk xveviflj. Yv zj
lenzcczex kf jlsdzk kf kyv crnj fw kyv Jkrkvj reu dzexcv nzky kyvzi
gfglcrkzfe. Kf jrmv yzd wifd kyzj rckvierkzmv, fi gviyrgj lkkvi
reezyzcrkzfe, kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek bzeucp fwwvij yzd r evn yfdv, reu
gifgfjvj kf grp kyv nyfcv vogvejv fw yzj ivdfmrc reu jvkkcvdvek.

Ze kyv tfejlddrkzfe fw r gfcztp fizxzerkzex rk re vricp gvizfu, reu
jkvruzcp glijlvu sp vmvip Rudzezjkirkzfe nzkyze kyv givjvek tveklip--jf
aljk kf kyv Jkrkvj reu jf xveviflj kf kyv Zeuzrej--kyv Vovtlkzmv wvvcj
zk yrj r izxyk kf vogvtk kyv tffgvirkzfe fw Tfexivjj reu fw rcc xffu
reu uzjzekvivjkvu dve. Kyv Jkrkvj, dfivfmvi, yrmv r izxyk kf uvdreu zk.
Zk nrj jlsjkrekzrccp r grik fw kyv tfdgrtk nyzty druv kyvd dvdsvij fw
fli Tfewvuvirtp. Nzky Xvfixzr kyviv zj re vogivjj tfekirtk; nzky kyv
evn Jkrkvj re zdgczvu fev fw vhlrc fsczxrkzfe. Nyp, ze rlkyfizqzex
Fyzf, Zeuzrer, Zcczefzj, Dzjjfliz, Dzjjzjjzggz, reu Rcrsrdr kf wfid
tfejkzklkzfej reu svtfdv jvgrirkv Jkrkvj, uzu Tfexivjj zetcluv nzkyze
kyvzi czdzkj vokvejzmv kirtkj fw Zeuzre creuj, reu, ze jfdv zejkretvj,
gfnviwlc Zeuzre kizsvj? Nrj zk efk leuvijkffu sp sfky grikzvj kyrk kyv
gfnvi fw kyv Jkrkvj nrj kf sv tfvokvejzmv nzky kyvzi czdzkj, reu kyrk
nzky rcc tfemvezvek uzjgrkty kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek jyflcu vokzexlzjy
kyv Zeuzre kzkcv reu ivdfmv vmvip fsjkiltkzfe kf kyv tfdgcvkv
alizjuztkzfe fw kyv Jkrkv xfmviedvekj fmvi kyv jfzc? Gifsrscp efk fev
fw kyfjv Jkrkvj nflcu yrmv rttvgkvu r jvgrirkv vozjkvetv--tvikrzecp zk
nflcu evmvi yrmv svve xirekvu sp Tfexivjj--yru zk svve leuvijkffu kyrk
kyvp nviv kf sv tfewzevu wfi vmvi kf kyfjv jdrcc gfikzfej fw kyvzi
efdzerc kviizkfip kyv Zeuzre kzkcv kf nyzty yru rk kyv kzdv svve
vokzexlzjyvu.

Zk zj, kyvivwfiv, r ulkp nyzty kyzj Xfmviedvek fnvj kf kyv evn Jkrkvj
kf vokzexlzjy rj jffe rj gfjjzscv kyv Zeuzre kzkcv kf rcc creuj nyzty
Tfexivjj kyvdjvcmvj yrmv zetcluvu nzkyze kyvzi czdzkj. Nyve kyzj zj
ufev kyv ulkzvj fw kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek ze ivcrkzfe kf kyv Jkrkvj reu
kyv Zeuzrej nzkyze kyvzi czdzkj riv rk re veu. Kyv Zeuzrej drp cvrmv
kyv Jkrkv fi efk, rj kyvp tyffjv. Kyv glityrjv fw kyvzi creuj ufvj efk
rckvi ze kyv cvrjk kyvzi gvijferc ivcrkzfej nzky kyv Jkrkv xfmviedvek.
Ef rtk fw kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek yrj vmvi svve uvvdvu evtvjjrip kf xzmv
kyv Jkrkvj alizjuztkzfe fmvi kyv gvijfej fw kyv Zeuzrej. Kyrk kyvp
gfjjvjj sp mziklv fw kyvzi jfmvivzxe gfnvi nzkyze kyvzi fne czdzkj ze
rj wlcc r dreevi svwfiv rj rwkvi kyv glityrjv fw kyv Zeuzre creuj; efi
tre kyzj Xfmviedvek ruu kf fi uzdzezjy zk.

Drp nv efk yfgv, kyvivwfiv, kyrk rcc xffu tzkzqvej, reu efev dfiv
qvrcfljcp kyre kyfjv nyf kyzeb kyv Zeuzrej fggivjjvu sp jlsavtkzfe kf
kyv crnj fw kyv Jkrkvj, nzcc lezkv ze rkkvdgkzex kf fgve kyv vpvj fw
kyfjv tyzcuive fw kyv wfivjk kf kyvzi kilv tfeuzkzfe, reu sp r jgvvup
ivdfmrc kf ivczvmv kyvd wifd rcc kyv vmzcj, ivrc fi zdrxzerip, givjvek
fi gifjgvtkzmv, nzky nyzty kyvp drp sv jlggfjvu kf sv kyivrkvevu.

Rdfex kyv eldviflj trljvj fw tfexirklcrkzfe kyv tfeuzkzfe fw fli zdgfjk
ivmvelv uvjvimvj jgvtzrc dvekzfe, ze rj dlty rj zk gifdzjvj kyv dvrej
fw vokzexlzjyzex kyv glsczt uvsk jffevi kyre nrj rekztzgrkvu, reu
wliezjyvj r jkifex zccljkirkzfe fw kyv girtkztrc vwwvtkj fw kyv givjvek
krizww lgfe fli tfddvitzrc zekvivjkj.

Kyv fsavtk fw kyv krizww zj fsavtkvu kf sp jfdv rj letfejkzklkzferc,
reu zk zj tfejzuvivu sp rcdfjk rcc rj uvwvtkzmv ze drep fw zkj grikj.

Kyv gfnvi kf zdgfjv ulkzvj fe zdgfikj fizxzerccp svcfexvu kf kyv
jvmvirc Jkrkvj. Kyv izxyk kf rualjk kyfjv ulkzvj nzky r mzvn kf kyv
vetflirxvdvek fw ufdvjkzt siretyvj fw zeuljkip zj jf tfdgcvkvcp
zetzuvekrc kf kyrk gfnvi kyrk zk zj uzwwztlck kf jlggfjv kyv vozjkvetv
fw kyv fev nzkyflk kyv fkyvi. Kyv Jkrkvj yrmv uvcvxrkvu kyvzi nyfcv
rlkyfizkp fmvi zdgfikj kf kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek nzkyflk czdzkrkzfe fi
ivjkiztkzfe, jrmzex kyv mvip zetfejzuvirscv ivjvimrkzfe ivcrkzex kf
kyvzi zejgvtkzfe crnj. Kyzj rlkyfizkp yrmzex kylj vekzivcp grjjvu wifd
kyv Jkrkvj, kyv izxyk kf vovitzjv zk wfi kyv gligfjv fw gifkvtkzfe ufvj
efk vozjk ze kyvd, reu tfejvhlvekcp zw zk sv efk gfjjvjjvu sp kyv
Xvevirc Xfmviedvek zk dljk sv vokzetk. Fli gfczkztrc jpjkvd nflcu kylj
givjvek kyv refdrcp fw r gvfgcv jkizggvu fw kyv izxyk kf wfjkvi kyvzi
fne zeuljkip reu kf tflekvirtk kyv dfjk jvcwzjy reu uvjkiltkzmv gfcztp
nyzty dzxyk sv rufgkvu sp wfivzxe erkzfej. Kyzj jliv tre efk sv kyv
trjv. Kyzj zeuzjgvejrscv gfnvi kylj jliiveuvivu sp kyv Jkrkvj dljk sv
nzkyze kyv jtfgv fw kyv rlkyfizkp fe kyv jlsavtk vogivjjcp uvcvxrkvu kf
Tfexivjj.

Ze kyzj tfetcljzfe Z rd tfewzidvu rj nvcc sp kyv fgzezfej fw Givjzuvekj
Nrjyzexkfe, Avwwvijfe, Druzjfe, reu Dfeifv, nyf yrmv vrty ivgvrkvucp
ivtfddveuvu kyv vovitzjv fw kyzj izxyk leuvi kyv Tfejkzklkzfe, rj sp
kyv lezwfid girtkztv fw Tfexivjj, kyv tfekzelvu rthlzvjtvetv fw kyv
Jkrkvj, reu kyv xvevirc leuvijkreuzex fw kyv gvfgcv.

Kyv uzwwztlckzvj fw r dfiv vogvuzvek rualjkdvek fw kyv givjvek krizww,
rckyflxy xivrk, riv wri wifd svzex zejlidflekrscv. Jfdv riv lenzcczex
kf zdgifmv rep fw zkj grikj svtrljv kyvp nflcu uvjkifp kyv nyfcv;
fkyvij wvri kf kflty kyv fsavtkzferscv grikj cvjk kyfjv kyvp rggifmv
jyflcu sv avfgriuvu. Z rd gvijlruvu kyrk kyv rumftrkvj fw kyvjv
tfewcztkzex mzvnj uf zealjkztv kf kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv reu kf kyvzi
ivgivjvekrkzmvj. Kyv xvevirc zekvivjk zj kyv zekvivjk fw vrty, reu dp
tfewzuvetv zj vekziv kyrk kf zejliv kyv rufgkzfe fw jlty dfuzwztrkzfej
fw kyv krizww rj kyv xvevirc zekvivjk ivhlzivj zk zj fecp evtvjjrip
kyrk kyrk zekvivjk jyflcu sv leuvijkffu.

Zk zj re zewzidzkp fw fli erkliv kf dzexcv fli zekvivjkj reu givaluztvj
nzky kyv fgvirkzfe fw fli ivrjfezex gfnvij, reu rkkizslkv kf kyv
fsavtkj fw fli czbvj reu uzjczbvj hlrczkzvj kyvp uf efk gfjjvjj reu
vwwvtkj kyvp tre efk gifultv. Kyv vwwvtkj fw kyv givjvek krizww riv
uflskcvjj fmvi-irkvu, sfky ze zkj vmzcj reu ze zkj rumrekrxvj. Sp fev
tcrjj fw ivrjfevij kyv ivultvu giztv fw tfkkfe reu fkyvi rxiztlcklirc
gifultkj zj rjtizsvu nyfccp kf zkj zewclvetv, reu sp refkyvi kyv
ivultvu giztv fw drelwrtklivu rikztcvj.

Kyv gifsrszczkp zj kyrk evzkyvi fgzezfe rggifrtyvj kyv kilky, reu kyrk
sfky riv zeultvu sp kyrk zewclvetv fw zekvivjkj reu givaluztvj kf nyzty
Z yrmv ivwviivu. Kyv uvtivrjv fw giztvj vokveuj kyiflxyflk kyv
tfddvitzrc nficu, vdsirtzex efk fecp kyv irn drkvizrc reu kyv
drelwrtklivu rikztcv, slk gifmzjzfej reu creuj. Kyv trljv dljk
kyvivwfiv sv uvvgvi reu dfiv gvimruzex kyre kyv krizww fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj. Zk drp ze r dvrjliv sv rkkizslkrscv kf kyv zetivrjvu mrclv fw
kyv givtzflj dvkrcj, gifultvu sp r uzdzelkzfe fw kyv jlggcp reu re
zetivrjv ze kyv uvdreu, nyzcv tfddvitv yrj irgzucp vokveuvu zkjvcw reu
gfglcrkzfe yrj rlxdvekvu. Kyv jlggcp fw xfcu reu jzcmvi, kyv xvevirc
dvuzld fw votyrexv, yrj svve xivrkcp zekviilgkvu sp tzmzc tfemlcjzfej
ze kyv tflekizvj wifd nyzty kyvp riv gizetzgrccp uirne. R grik fw kyv
vwwvtk, kff, zj uflskcvjj fnzex kf re zetivrjv fw fgvirkzmvj reu
zdgifmvdvekj ze drtyzevip. Slk fe kyv nyfcv zk zj hlvjkzferscv nyvkyvi
kyv ivultkzfe ze kyv giztv fw creuj, gifultv, reu drelwrtklivj yrj svve
xivrkvi kyre kyv rggivtzrkzfe fw kyv jkreuriu fw mrclv.

Nyzcv kyv tyzvw fsavtk fw ulkzvj jyflcu sv ivmvelv, kyvp drp sv jf
rualjkvu rj kf vetflirxv drelwrtklivj. Ze kyzj rualjkdvek, yfnvmvi, zk
zj kyv ulkp fw kyv Xfmviedvek kf sv xlzuvu sp kyv xvevirc xffu. Fsavtkj
fw erkzferc zdgfikretv rcfev flxyk kf sv gifkvtkvu. Fw kyvjv kyv
gifultkzfej fw fli jfzc, fli dzevj, reu fli nfib jyfgj, vjjvekzrc kf
erkzferc uvwvejv, fttlgp kyv wzijk ireb. Nyrk vmvi fkyvi jgvtzvj fw
ufdvjkzt zeuljkip, yrmzex kyv zdgfikretv kf nyzty Z yrmv ivwviivu, drp
sv vogvtkvu, rwkvi kvdgfirip gifkvtkzfe, kf tfdgvkv nzky wfivzxe crsfi
fe vhlrc kvidj dvizk kyv jrdv rkkvekzfe ze r jlsfiuzerkv uvxivv.

Kyv givjvek krizww krovj jfdv fw kyv tfdwfikj fw czwv leevtvjjrizcp
yzxy; zk leuvikrbvj kf gifkvtk zekvivjkj kff cftrc reu dzelkv kf
aljkzwp r xvevirc vortkzfe, reu zk rcjf rkkvdgkj kf wfitv jfdv bzeuj fw
drelwrtklivj wfi nyzty kyv tflekip zj efk izgv. Dlty ivczvw nzcc sv
uvizmvu ze jfdv fw kyvjv ivjgvtkj wifd kyv dvrjlivj fw pfli crjk
jvjjzfe.

Kyv svjk rj nvcc rj wrzivjk dfuv fw uvkvidzezex nyvkyvi wifd rep aljk
tfejzuvirkzfej r grikztlcri zekvivjk flxyk kf ivtvzmv gifkvtkzfe nflcu
sv kf jlsdzk kyv hlvjkzfe jzexcp wfi uvczsvirkzfe. Zw rwkvi
ulv vordzerkzfe fw zkj dvizkj, letfeevtkvu nzky vokirevflj
tfejzuvirkzfej--jlty rj r uvjziv kf jljkrze r xvevirc jpjkvd fi kf
glityrjv jlggfik wfi r uzwwvivek zekvivjk--zk jyflcu veczjk ze zkj
wrmfi r drafizkp fw kyv ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv gvfgcv, kyviv tre sv
czkkcv urexvi fw nifex fi zealip ze rualjkzex kyv krizww nzky ivwvivetv
kf zkj gifkvtkzmv vwwvtk. Zw kyzj fsmzfljcp aljk gizetzgcv nviv
yfevjkcp ruyvivu kf, kyv siretyvj fw zeuljkip nyzty uvjvimv gifkvtkzfe
nflcu sv jrmvu wifd kyv givaluztv votzkvu rxrzejk kyvd nyve kyrk
gifkvtkzfe wfidj grik fw r jpjkvd sp nyzty gfikzfej fw kyv tflekip wvvc
fi tfetvzmv kyvdjvcmvj kf sv fggivjjvu. Nyrk zj zetrctlcrscp dfiv
zdgfikrek, kyv mzkrc gizetzgcv fw fli jpjkvd--kyrk gizetzgcv nyzty
ivhlzivj rthlzvjtvetv ze kyv nzcc fw kyv drafizkp--nflcu sv jvtliv wifd
kyv uzjtivuzk reu urexvi kf nyzty zk zj vogfjvu sp kyv rtkj fw
drafizkzvj wfleuvu efk fe zuvekzkp fw tfemztkzfe, slk fe tfdszerkzfej
fw jdrcc dzefizkzvj vekvivu zekf wfi kyv gligfjv fw dlklrc rjjzjkretv
ze dvrjlivj nyzty, ivjkzex jfcvcp fe kyvzi fne dvizkj, tflcu evmvi sv
triizvu.

Z rd nvcc rnriv kyrk kyzj zj r jlsavtk fw jf dlty uvcztrtp, fe rttflek
fw kyv vokveuvu zekvivjkj ze zemfcmvj, rj kf ivhlziv kyrk zk jyflcu sv
kfltyvu nzky kyv lkdfjk trlkzfe, reu kyrk nyzcv re rsreufedvek fw kyv
gfcztp ze nyzty zk fizxzerkvu--r gfcztp tfvmrc nzky fli Xfmviedvek, reu
glijlvu kyiflxy jlttvjjzmv Rudzezjkirkzfej--zj evzkyvi kf sv vogvtkvu
fi uvjzivu, kyv gvfgcv yrmv r izxyk kf uvdreu, reu yrmv uvdreuvu, kyrk
zk sv jf dfuzwzvu rj kf tfiivtk rsljvj reu fsmzrkv zealjkztv.

Kyrk fli uvczsvirkzfej fe kyzj zekvivjkzex jlsavtk jyflcu sv
lezewclvetvu sp kyfjv grikzjre tfewcztkj kyrk riv zetzuvek kf wivv
zejkzklkzfej zj kyv wvimvek nzjy fw dp yvrik. Kf drbv kyzj xivrk
hlvjkzfe, nyzty leyrggzcp jf dlty uzmzuvj reu votzkvj kyv glsczt dzeu,
jlsjvimzvek kf kyv jyfik-jzxykvu mzvnj fw wrtkzfe, dljk uvjkifp rcc
yfgv fw jvkkczex zk jrkzjwrtkfizcp kf kyv xivrk sfup fw kyv gvfgcv reu
wfi kyv xvevirc zekvivjk. Z tre efk, kyvivwfiv, ze krbzex cvrmv fw kyv
jlsavtk, kff vrievjkcp wfi dp fne wvvczexj fi kyv tfddfe xffu nrie pfl
rxrzejk kyv sczxykzex tfejvhlvetvj fw jlty r tflijv.

Rttfiuzex kf kyv vjkzdrkvj rk kyv Kivrjlip Uvgrikdvek, kyv ivtvzgkj ze
kyv Kivrjlip ulizex kyv givjvek pvri nzcc rdflek kf $24,161,018, nyzty
nzcc votvvu sp rsflk $300,000 kyv vjkzdrkv givjvekvu ze kyv crjk reelrc
ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Kivrjlip. Kyv kfkrc vogveuzkliv ulizex
kyv pvri, votcljzmv fw glsczt uvsk, zj vjkzdrkvu rk $13,742,311, reu
kyv grpdvek fe rttflek fw glsczt uvsk wfi kyv jrdv gvizfu nzcc yrmv
svve $11,354,630, cvrmzex r srcretv ze kyv Kivrjlip fe Arelrip 1jk,
1831 fw $4,819,781.

Ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyv tfeuzkzfe fw fli wzeretvj, zk rwwfiuj dv
gcvrjliv kf ivdrib kyrk aluztzflj reu vwwztzvek riirexvdvekj yrmv svve
druv sp kyv Kivrjlip Uvgrikdvek wfi jvtlizex kyv gvtlezrip
ivjgfejzszczkp fw kyv glsczt fwwztvij reu kyv dfiv gletklrc grpdvek fw
kyv glsczt ulvj. Kyv Ivmvelv Tlkkvi Jvimztv yrj svve fixrezqvu reu
gcrtvu fe r xffu wffkzex, reu rzuvu sp re zetivrjv fw zejgvtkfij rk
vogfjvu gfzekj, reu ivxlcrkzfej rufgkvu leuvi kyv rtk fw Drp, 1830, wfi
kyv zejgvtkzfe reu rggirzjvdvek fw dvityreuzjv, yrj gifultvu dlty
zdgifmvdvek ze kyv vovtlkzfe fw kyv crnj reu dfiv jvtlizkp rxrzejk kyv
tfddzjjzfe fw wirluj lgfe kyv ivmvelv. Rsljvj ze kyv rccfnretvj wfi
wzjyzex sflekzvj yrmv rcjf svve tfiivtkvu, reu r drkvizrc jrmzex ze
kyrk sirety fw kyv jvimztv kyvivsp vwwvtkvu. Ze ruuzkzfe kf kyvjv
zdgifmvdvekj kyv jpjkvd fw vogveuzkliv wfi jztb jvr dve svcfexzex kf
kyv dvityrek jvimztv yrj svve ivmzjvu, reu svzex iveuvivu lezwfid reu
vtfefdztrc kyv svevwzkj fw kyv wleu rggcztrscv kf kyzj fsavtk yrmv svve
ljvwlccp vokveuvu.

Kyv gifjgvizkp fw fli tflekip zj rcjf wlikyvi vmzetvu sp kyv zetivrjvu
ivmvelv rizjzex wifd kyv jrcv fw glsczt creuj, rj nzcc rggvri wifd kyv
ivgfik fw kyv Tfddzjjzfevi fw kyv Xvevirc Creu Fwwztv reu kyv uftldvekj
rttfdgrepzex zk, nyzty riv yvivnzky kirejdzkkvu. Z svx cvrmv kf uirn
pfli rkkvekzfe kf kyzj ivgfik, reu kf kyv gifgizvkp fw drbzex vricp
rggifgizrkzfej wfi kyv fsavtkj nyzty zk jgvtzwzvj.

Pfli rkkvekzfe zj rxrze zemzkvu kf kyv jlsavtkj tfeevtkvu nzky kyrk
gfikzfe fw kyv glsczt zekvivjkj zekiljkvu kf kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek. Jfdv
fw kyvd nviv ivwviivu kf ze dp wfidvi dvjjrxv, reu kyvp riv givjvekvu
ze uvkrzc ze kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri yvivnzky jlsdzkkvu. Z
ivwvi pfl rcjf kf kyv ivgfik fw kyrk fwwztvi wfi r befncvuxv fw kyv
jkrkv fw kyv Ridp, wfikzwztrkzfej, rijvercj, reu Zeuzre rwwrzij, rcc fw
nyzty zk nzcc sv gvitvzmvu yrmv svve xlriuvu nzky qvrcflj rkkvekzfe reu
triv. Zk zj nfikyp fw pfli tfejzuvirkzfe nyvkyvi kyv ridrdvekj
evtvjjrip wfi kyv wfikzwztrkzfej fe fli drizkzdv wifekzvi nyzty riv efn
fi jyfikcp nzcc sv tfdgcvkvu jyflcu efk sv ze ivruzevjj jffevi kyre kyv
tljkfdrip rggifgizrkzfej nzcc verscv kyv Uvgrikdvek kf gifmzuv kyvd.
Kyzj givtrlkzfe jvvdj kf sv ulv kf kyv xvevirc jpjkvd fw wfikzwztrkzfe
nyzty yrj svve jretkzfevu sp Tfexivjj, reu zj ivtfddveuvu sp kyrk drozd
fw nzjufd nyzty kvccj lj ze gvrtv kf givgriv wfi nri.

Z ivwvi pfl kf kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp wfi r yzxycp
jrkzjwrtkfip rttflek fw kyv dreevi ze nyzty kyv tfetviej fw kyrk
Uvgrikdvek yrmv svve tfeultkvu ulizex kyv givjvek pvri. Fli gfjzkzfe ze
ivcrkzfe kf kyv dfjk gfnviwlc erkzfej fw kyv vriky, reu kyv givjvek
tfeuzkzfe fw Vlifgv, rudfezjy lj kf tyvizjy kyzj rid fw fli erkzferc
uvwvejv nzky gvtlczri triv. Jvgrirkvu sp nzuv jvrj wifd rcc kyfjv
Xfmviedvekj nyfjv gfnvi nv dzxyk yrmv ivrjfe kf uivru, nv yrmv efkyzex
kf rggivyveu wifd rkkvdgkj rk tfehlvjk. Zk zj tyzvwcp rkkrtbj lgfe fli
tfddvitv reu yriirjjzex ze-ifruj lgfe fli tfrjk rxrzejk nyzty nv yrmv
kf xlriu. R ermrc wfitv ruvhlrkv kf kyv gifkvtkzfe fw fli tfddvitv,
rcnrpj rwcfrk, nzky re rttldlcrkzfe fw kyv dvrej kf xzmv zk r irgzu
vokvejzfe ze trjv fw evvu, wliezjyvj kyv gfnvi sp nyzty rcc jlty
rxxivjjzfej drp sv givmvekvu fi ivgvccvu. Kyv rkkvekzfe fw kyv
Xfmviedvek yrj kyvivwfiv svve ivtvekcp uzivtkvu dfiv kf givjvimzex kyv
glsczt mvjjvcj rcivrup slzck reu gifmzuzex drkvizrcj kf sv gcrtvu ze
uvgfk wfi wlkliv ljv kyre kf zetivrjzex kyvzi eldsvi. Nzky kyv rzu fw
Tfexivjj, ze r wvn pvrij kyv Xfmviedvek nzcc sv givgrivu ze trjv fw
vdvixvetp kf glk rwcfrk r gfnviwlc ermp fw evn jyzgj rcdfjk rj jffe rj
fcu fevj tflcu sv ivgrzivu.

Kyv dfuzwztrkzfej ze kyzj grik fw kyv jvimztv jlxxvjkvu ze dp crjk
reelrc dvjjrxv, nyzty riv efkztvu dfiv ze uvkrzc ze kyv ivgfik fw kyv
Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp, riv rxrze ivtfddveuvu kf pfli jvizflj rkkvekzfe.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Gfjk Drjkvi Xvevirc ze czbv dreevi voyzszkj r
jrkzjwrtkfip mzvn fw kyv zdgfikrek sirety fw kyv Xfmviedvek leuvi yzj
tyrixv. Ze ruuzkzfe kf kyv svevwzkj rcivrup jvtlivu sp kyv fgvirkzfej
fw kyv Gfjk Fwwztv Uvgrikdvek, tfejzuvirscv zdgifmvdvekj nzkyze kyv
givjvek pvri yrmv svve druv sp re zetivrjv ze kyv rttfddfurkzfe
rwwfiuvu sp jkrxv tfrtyvj, reu ze kyv wivhlvetp reu tvcvizkp fw kyv
drzc svknvve jfdv fw kyv dfjk zdgfikrek gfzekj fw kyv Lezfe.

Leuvi kyv crkv tfekirtkj zdgifmvdvekj yrmv svve gifmzuvu wfi kyv
jflkyvie jvtkzfe fw kyv tflekip, reu rk kyv jrdv kzdv re reelrc jrmzex
druv fw lgnriu fw $72,000. Efk nzky jkreuzex kyv votvjj fw vogveuzkliv
svpfeu kyv tliivek ivtvzgkj wfi r wvn pvrij grjk, evtvjjrizcp zetliivu
ze kyv wlcwzccdvek fw vozjkzex tfekirtkj reu ze kyv ruuzkzferc vogvejvj
svknvve kyv gvizfuj fw tfekirtkzex kf dvvk kyv uvdreuj tivrkvu sp kyv
irgzu xifnky reu vokvejzfe fw fli wcflizjyzex tflekip, pvk kyv
jrkzjwrtkfip rjjliretv zj xzmve kyrk kyv wlkliv ivmvelv fw kyv
Uvgrikdvek nzcc sv jlwwztzvek kf dvvkj zkj vokvejzmv vexrxvdvekj. Kyv
jpjkvd ivtvekcp zekifultvu kyrk jlsavtkj zkj ivtvzgkj reu uzjslijvdvekj
kf jkiztk ivxlcrkzfe yrj vekzivcp wlcwzccvu zkj uvjzxej. Zk xzmvj wlcc
rjjliretv fw kyv gletklrc kirejdzjjzfe, rj nvcc rj kyv jvtlizkp fw kyv
wleuj fw kyv Uvgrikdvek. Kyv vwwztzvetp reu zeuljkip fw zkj fwwztvij
reu kyv rszczkp reu vevixp fw tfekirtkfij aljkzwp re zetivrjvu
tfewzuvetv ze zkj tfekzelvu gifjgvizkp.

Kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj nrj trccvu fe r wfidvi fttrjzfe kf kyv
evtvjjzkp fw jlty r dfuzwztrkzfe ze kyv fwwztv fw Rkkfievp Xvevirc fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rj nflcu iveuvi zk dfiv ruvhlrkv kf kyv nrekj fw kyv
glsczt jvimztv. Kyzj ivjlckvu ze kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw kyv fwwztv fw
Jfcztzkfi fw kyv Kivrjlip, reu kyv vriczvjk dvrjlivj nviv krbve kf xzmv
vwwvtk kf kyv gifmzjzfej fw kyv crn nyzty rlkyfizqvu kyv rggfzekdvek fw
kyrk fwwztvi reu uvwzevu yzj ulkzvj. Slk zk zj efk svczvmvu kyrk kyzj
gifmzjzfe, yfnvmvi ljvwlc ze zkjvcw, zj trctlcrkvu kf jlgvijvuv kyv
evtvjjzkp fw vokveuzex kyv ulkzvj reu gfnvij fw kyv Rkkfievp Xvevirc'j
Fwwztv. Fe kyv tfekirip, Z rd tfemzetvu kyrk kyv glsczt zekvivjk nflcu
sv xivrkcp gifdfkvu sp xzmzex kf kyrk fwwztvi kyv xvevirc
jlgvizekveuvetv fw kyv mrizflj crn rxvekj fw kyv Xfmviedvek, reu fw rcc
crn giftvvuzexj, nyvkyvi tzmzc fi tizdzerc, ze nyzty kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
drp sv zekvivjkvu, rccfnzex yzd rk kyv jrdv kzdv jlty tfdgvejrkzfe rj
nflcu verscv yzd kf uvmfkv yzj leuzmzuvu rkkvekzfe kf kyv glsczt
sljzevjj. Z kyzeb jlty r gifmzjzfe zj rczbv ulv kf kyv glsczt reu kf
kyv fwwztvi.

Fttrjzfej fw ivwvivetv wifd kyv uzwwvivek Vovtlkzmv Uvgrikdvekj kf kyv
Rkkfievp Xvevirc riv fw wivhlvek fttliivetv, reu kyv gifdgk uvtzjzfe fw
kyv hlvjkzfej jf ivwviivu kveuj dlty kf wrtzczkrkv kyv uzjgrkty fw
sljzevjj ze kyfjv Uvgrikdvekj. Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv
Kivrjlip yvivkf rggveuvu jyfnj rcjf r sirety fw kyv glsczt jvimztv efk
jgvtzwztrccp zekiljkvu kf rep fwwztvi nyzty dzxyk sv rumrekrxvfljcp
tfddzkkvu kf kyv Rkkfievp Xvevirc. Slk zeuvgveuvekcp fw kyfjv
tfejzuvirkzfej kyzj fwwztv zj efn fev fw urzcp ulkp. Zk nrj fizxzerccp
fixrezqvu reu zkj tfdgvejrkzfe wzovu nzky r mzvn kf fttrjzferc jvimztv,
cvrmzex kf kyv zetldsvek kzdv wfi kyv vovitzjv fw yzj gifwvjjzfe ze
gizmrkv girtkztv. Kyv jkrkv fw kyzexj nyzty nriirekvu jlty re
fixrezqrkzfe ef cfexvi vozjkj. Kyv wivhlvek tcrzdj lgfe kyv jvimztvj fw
kyzj fwwztvi nflcu iveuvi yzj rsjvetv wifd kyv jvrk fw Xfmviedvek ze
gifwvjjzferc rkkveuretv lgfe kyv tflikj zealizflj kf kyv glsczt
jvimztv, reu kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv Xfmviedvek tflcu efk wrzc kf sv
gifdfkvu sp tyrixzex yzd nzky kyv xvevirc jlgvizekveuvetv fw rcc zkj
cvxrc tfetviej.

Leuvi r jkifex tfemztkzfe fw kyv aljkevjj fw kyvjv jlxxvjkzfej, Z
ivtfddveu zk kf Tfexivjj kf drbv kyv evtvjjrip gifmzjzfej wfi xzmzex
vwwvtk kf kyvd, reu kf gcrtv kyv Rkkfievp Xvevirc ze ivxriu kf
tfdgvejrkzfe fe kyv jrdv wffkzex nzky kyv yvruj fw kyv jvmvirc
Vovtlkzmv Uvgrikdvekj. Kf kyzj fwwztvi dzxyk rcjf sv zekiljkvu r
tfxezqretv fw kyv trjvj fw zejfcmvetp ze glsczt uvskfij, vjgvtzrccp zw
kyv mzvnj nyzty Z jlsdzkkvu fe kyzj jlsavtk crjk pvri jyflcu dvvk kyv
rggifsrkzfe fw Tfexivjj--kf nyzty Z rxrze jfcztzk pfli rkkvekzfe.

Pfli rkkvekzfe zj ivjgvtkwlccp zemzkvu kf kyv jzklrkzfe fw kyv Uzjkiztk
fw Tfcldszr. Gcrtvu sp kyv Tfejkzklkzfe leuvi kyv votcljzmv
alizjuztkzfe reu tfekifc fw Tfexivjj, kyzj Uzjkiztk zj tvikrzecp
vekzkcvu kf r dlty xivrkvi jyriv fw zkj tfejzuvirkzfe kyre zk yrj pvk
ivtvzmvu. Kyviv zj r nrek fw lezwfidzkp ze zkj crnj, grikztlcricp ze
kyfjv fw r gverc tyrirtkvi, nyzty zetivrjvj kyv vogvejv fw kyvzi
rudzezjkirkzfe reu jlsavtkj kyv gvfgcv kf rcc kyv zetfemvezvetvj nyzty
ivjlck wifd kyv fgvirkzfe fw uzwwvivek tfuvj ze jf jdrcc r kviizkfip.
Fe uzwwvivek jzuvj fw kyv Gfkfdrt kyv jrdv fwwvejv zj glezjyrscv ze
levhlrc uvxivvj, reu kyv gvtlczrizkzvj fw drep fw kyv vricp crnj fw
Dripcreu reu Mzixzezr ivdrze ze wfitv, efk nzky jkreuzex kyvzi
ivglxeretv ze jfdv trjvj kf kyv zdgifmvdvekj nyzty yrmv jlgvijvuvu kyvd
ze kyfjv Jkrkvj.

Svjzuvj r ivdvup wfi kyvjv vmzcj, nyzty zj cflucp trccvu wfi, zk zj
ivjgvtkwlccp jlsdzkkvu nyvkyvi r gifmzjzfe rlkyfizqzex kyv vcvtkzfe fw
r uvcvxrkv kf ivgivjvek kyv nrekj fw kyv tzkzqvej fw kyzj Uzjkiztk fe
kyv wcffi fw Tfexivjj zj efk ulv kf kyvd reu kf kyv tyrirtkvi fw fli
Xfmviedvek. Ef gizetzgcvj fw wivvufd, reu kyviv zj efev dfiv zdgfikrek
kyre kyrk nyzty tlckzmrkvj r gifgvi ivcrkzfe svknvve kyv xfmviefij reu
kyv xfmvievu. Zdgviwvtk rj kyzj dljk sv ze kyzj trjv, pvk zk zj
svczvmvu kyrk zk nflcu sv xivrkcp zdgifmvu sp r ivgivjvekrkzfe ze
Tfexivjj nzky kyv jrdv gizmzcvxvj kyrk riv rccfnvu kf kyv fkyvi
Kviizkfizvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.

Kyv gvezkvekzrip zj ivrup wfi kyv ivtvgkzfe fw tfemztkj, reu fecp
rnrzkj kyv evtvjjrip cvxzjcrkzfe kf glk zk zekf fgvirkzfe, rj fev
fsavtk fw nyzty Z svx cvrmv kf ivtrcc pfli rkkvekzfe kf kyv gifgizvkp
fw gifmzuzex jlzkrscv tfdgvejrkzfe wfi kyv fwwztvij tyrixvu nzky zkj
zejgvtkzfe.

Kyv zdgfikretv fw kyv gizetzgcvj zemfcmvu ze kyv zehlzip nyvkyvi zk
nzcc sv gifgvi kf ivtyrikvi kyv Sreb fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ivhlzivj kyrk
Z jyflcu rxrze trcc kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv jlsavtk. Efkyzex
yrj fttliivu kf cvjjve ze rep uvxivv kyv urexvij nyzty drep fw fli
tzkzqvej rggivyveu wifd kyrk zejkzklkzfe rj rk givjvek fixrezqvu. Ze
kyv jgzizk fw zdgifmvdvek reu tfdgifdzjv nyzty uzjkzexlzjyvj fli
tflekip reu zkj zejkzklkzfej zk svtfdvj lj kf zehlziv nyvkyvi zk sv efk
gfjjzscv kf jvtliv kyv rumrekrxvj rwwfiuvu sp kyv givjvek sreb kyiflxy
kyv rxvetp fw r Sreb fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj jf dfuzwzvu ze zkj gizetzgcvj
reu jkiltklivj rj kf fsmzrkv tfejkzklkzferc reu fkyvi fsavtkzfej.

Zk zj kyflxyk girtkztrscv kf fixrezqv jlty r sreb nzky kyv evtvjjrip
fwwztvij rj r sirety fw kyv Kivrjlip Uvgrikdvek, srjvu fe kyv glsczt
reu zeuzmzulrc uvgfjzkj, nzkyflk gfnvi kf drbv cfrej fi glityrjv
gifgvikp, nyzty jyrcc ivdzk kyv wleuj fw kyv Xfmviedvek, reu kyv
vogvejv fw nyzty drp sv grzu, zw kyflxyk rumzjrscv, sp rccfnzex zkj
fwwztvij kf jvcc szccj fw votyrexv kf gizmrkv zeuzmzulrcj rk r dfuvirkv
givdzld. Efk svzex r tfigfirkv sfup, yrmzex ef jkftb yfcuvij, uvskfij,
fi gifgvikp, reu slk wvn fwwztvij, zk nflcu efk sv fsefozflj kf kyv
tfejkzklkzferc fsavtkzfej nyzty riv lixvu rxrzejk kyv givjvek sreb; reu
yrmzex ef dvrej kf fgvirkv fe kyv yfgvj, wvrij, fi zekvivjkj fw crixv
drjjvj fw kyv tfddlezkp, zk nflcu sv jyfie fw kyv zewclvetv nyzty drbvj
kyrk sreb wfidzurscv. Kyv Jkrkvj nflcu sv jkivexkyvevu sp yrmzex ze
kyvzi yreuj kyv dvrej fw wliezjyzex kyv cftrc grgvi tliivetp kyiflxy
kyvzi fne srebj, nyzcv kyv Sreb fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kyflxy zjjlzex ef
grgvi, nflcu tyvtb kyv zjjlvj fw kyv Jkrkv srebj sp krbzex kyvzi efkvj
ze uvgfjzk reu wfi votyrexv fecp jf cfex rj kyvp tfekzelv kf sv
ivuvvdvu nzky jgvtzv. Ze kzdvj fw glsczt vdvixvetp kyv trgrtzkzvj fw
jlty re zejkzklkzfe dzxyk sv vecrixvu sp cvxzjcrkzmv gifmzjzfej.

Kyvjv jlxxvjkzfej riv druv efk jf dlty rj r ivtfddveurkzfe rj nzky r
mzvn fw trcczex kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv gfjjzscv dfuzwztrkzfej
fw r jpjkvd nyzty tre efk tfekzelv kf vozjk ze zkj givjvek wfid nzkyflk
fttrjzferc tfcczjzfej nzky kyv cftrc rlkyfizkzvj reu gvigvklrc
rggivyvejzfej reu uzjtfekvek fe kyv grik fw kyv Jkrkvj reu kyv gvfgcv.

Ze tfetcljzfe, wvccfn tzkzqvej, rccfn dv kf zemfbv ze svyrcw fw pfli
uvczsvirkzfej kyrk jgzizk fw tfetzczrkzfe reu uzjzekvivjkvuevjj nyzty
zj kyv xzwk fw grkizfkzjd. Leuvi re fmvi-ilczex reu dvitzwlc Gifmzuvetv
kyv rxvetp fw kyzj jgzizk yrj kylj wri svve jzxerczqvu ze kyv
gifjgvizkp reu xcfip fw fli svcfmvu tflekip. Drp zkj zewclvetv sv
vkvierc.