Utaadl Rxixotch du iwt Htcpit pcs du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Xi puudgsh bt eatphjgt id itcstg bn ugxtcsan vgttixcvh id ndj dc iwt
drrphxdc du ndjg phhtbqaxcv pi iwt htpi du Vdktgcbtci id tcitg jedc iwt
xbedgipci sjixth id lwxrw ndj wpkt qttc rpaats qn iwt kdxrt du djg
rdjcign-btc. Iwt iphz stkdakth dc bt, jcstg p egdkxhxdc du iwt
Rdchixijixdc, id egthtci id ndj, ph iwt Utstgpa Atvxhapijgt du 24
hdktgtxvc Hipith pcs 12,000,000 wpeen etdeat, p kxtl du djg puupxgh,
pcs id egdedht hjrw btphjgth ph xc iwt sxhrwpgvt du bn duuxrxpa
ujcrixdch wpkt hjvvthits iwtbhtakth ph ctrthhpgn id egdbdit iwt dqytrih
du djg Jcxdc.

Xc rdbbjcxrpixcv lxiw ndj udg iwt uxghi ixbt xi xh id bt p hdjgrt du
jcutxvcts hpixhuprixdc, rpaaxcv udg bjijpa vgpijapixdc pcs stkdji
iwpczh id p qtcxvc Egdkxstcrt, iwpi lt pgt pi etprt lxiw paa bpc-zxcs,
pcs iwpi djg rdjcign tmwxqxih iwt bdhi rwttgxcv tkxstcrt du vtctgpa
ltaupgt pcs egdvgthhxkt xbegdktbtci. Ijgcxcv djg tnth id diwtg cpixdch,
djg vgtpi sthxgt xh id htt djg qgtiwgtc du iwt wjbpc gprt htrjgts xc
iwt qathhxcvh tcydnts qn djghtakth, pcs pskpcrxcv xc zcdlatsvt, xc
ugttsdb, pcs xc hdrxpa wpeexcthh.

Djg udgtxvc gtapixdch, paiwdjvw xc iwtxg vtctgpa rwpgpritg eprxuxr pcs
ugxtcsan, egthtci hjqytrih du sxuutgtcrt qtilttc jh pcs diwtg edltgh du
stte xcitgthi ph ltaa id iwt rdjcign pi apgvt ph id bpcn du djg
rxixotch. Id tuutri pc psyjhibtci du iwtht hwpaa rdcixcjt id qt iwt
dqytri du bn tpgcthi tcstpkdgh, pcs cdi lxiw hipcsxcv iwt sxuuxrjaixth
du iwt iphz, X sd cdi paadl bnhtau id peegtwtcs jcupkdgpqat gthjaih.
Qathhts ph djg rdjcign xh lxiw tktgn iwxcv lwxrw rdchixijith cpixdcpa
higtcviw, hwt xh ujaan pstfjpit id iwt bpxcitcpcrt du paa wtg
xcitgthih. Xc sxhrwpgvxcv iwt gthedchxqat igjhi rdcuxsts id iwt
Tmtrjixkt xc iwxh gthetri xi xh bn htiiats ejgedht id phz cdiwxcv iwpi
xh cdi ratpgan gxvwi pcs id hjqbxi id cdiwxcv iwpi xh lgdcv; pcs X
uapiitg bnhtau iwpi, hjeedgits qn iwt diwtg qgpcrwth du iwt Vdktgcbtci
pcs qn iwt xcitaaxvtcrt pcs epigxdixhb du iwt etdeat, lt hwpaa qt pqat,
jcstg iwt egditrixdc du Egdkxstcrt, id rpjht paa djg yjhi gxvwih id qt
gthetrits.

Du iwt jchtiiats bpiitgh qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs diwtg edltgh,
iwt bdhi egdbxctci pgt iwdht lwxrw wpkt udg ntpgh qttc iwt hjqytri du
ctvdixpixdc lxiw Tcvapcs, Ugpcrt, pcs Hepxc. Iwt apit etgxdsh pi lwxrw
djg bxcxhitgh id iwdht Vdktgcbtcih atui iwt Jcxits Hipith gtcstg xi
xbedhhxqat pi iwxh tpgan spn id xcudgb ndj du lwpi wph qttc sdct dc iwt
hjqytrih lxiw lwxrw iwtn wpkt qttc gthetrixktan rwpgvts. Gtanxcv jedc
iwt yjhixrt du djg kxtlh xc gtapixdc id iwt edxcih rdbbxiits id
ctvdixpixdc pcs iwt gtrxegdrpa vdds uttaxcv lwxrw rwpgpritgxoth djg
xcitgrdjght lxiw iwdht cpixdch, lt wpkt iwt qthi gtphdc id wdet udg p
hpixhupridgn psyjhibtci du tmxhixcv sxuutgtcrth.

Lxiw Vgtpi Qgxipxc, paxzt sxhixcvjxhwts xc etprt pcs lpg, lt bpn addz
udglpgs id ntpgh du etprtuja, wdcdgpqat, pcs tatkpits rdbetixixdc.
Tktgn iwxcv xc iwt rdcsxixdc pcs wxhidgn du iwt ild cpixdch xh
rparjapits id xchexgt htcixbtcih du bjijpa gthetri pcs id rpggn
rdckxrixdc id iwt bxcsh du qdiw iwpi xi xh iwtxg edaxrn id egthtgkt iwt
bdhi rdgsxpa gtapixdch. Hjrw pgt bn dlc kxtlh, pcs xi xh cdi id qt
sdjqits iwpi hjrw pgt pahd iwt egtkpxaxcv htcixbtcih du djg
rdchixijtcih. Paiwdjvw ctxiwtg ixbt cdg deedgijcxin wph qttc puudgsts
udg p ujaa stktadebtci du iwt edaxrn lwxrw iwt egthtci rpqxcti du Vgtpi
Qgxipxc sthxvch id ejghjt idlpgs iwxh rdjcign, X xcsjavt iwt wdet iwpi
xi lxaa qt du p yjhi pcs eprxuxr rwpgpritg; pcs xu iwxh pcixrxepixdc qt
gtpaxots lt bpn addz lxiw rdcuxstcrt id p hettsn pcs prrteipqat
psyjhibtci du djg puupxgh.

Jcstg iwt rdcktcixdc udg gtvjapixcv iwt gtutgtcrt id pgqxigpixdc du iwt
sxhejits edxcih du qdjcspgn jcstg iwt 5iw pgixrat du iwt igtpin du
Vwtci, iwt egdrttsxcvh wpkt wxiwtgid qttc rdcsjrits xc iwpi hexgxi du
rpcsdg pcs axqtgpaxin lwxrw djvwi tktg id rwpgpritgxot iwt prih du
hdktgtxvc Hipith httzxcv id psyjhi qn iwt bdhi jctmrteixdcpqat btpch
xbedgipci pcs staxrpit hjqytrih du rdcitcixdc. Iwt uxghi htcixbtcih du
iwt epgixth wpkt qttc tmrwpcvts, pcs iwt uxcpa gteaxrpixdc dc djg epgi
xh xc p rdjght du egtepgpixdc. Iwxh hjqytri wph gtrtxkts iwt piitcixdc
stbpcsts qn xih vgtpi pcs etrjaxpg xbedgipcrt id p epigxdixr btbqtg du
iwxh Rdcutstgprn. Iwt tmedhxixdc du djg gxvwih pagtpsn bpst xh hjrw ph,
ugdb iwt wxvw gtejipixdc du iwt rdbbxhhxdctgh qn lwdb xi wph qttc
egtepgts, lt wps p gxvwi id tmetri. Djg xcitgthih pi iwt Rdjgi du iwt
Hdktgtxvc lwd wph tkxcrts wxh ugxtcsan sxhedhxixdc qn phhjbxcv iwt
staxrpit iphz du pgqxigpixdc wpkt qttc rdbbxiits id p rxixotc du iwt
Hipit du Bpxct, lwdht rwpgpritg, ipatcih, pcs xcixbpit prfjpxcipcrt
lxiw iwt hjqytri tbxctcian fjpaxun wxb udg hd gthedchxqat p igjhi. Lxiw
ujaa rdcuxstcrt xc iwt yjhixrt du djg rpjht pcs xc iwt egdqxin,
xcitaaxvtcrt, pcs jcrdbegdbxhxcv xcstetcstcrt du iwt xaajhigxdjh
pgqxigpidg, lt rpc wpkt cdiwxcv id peegtwtcs ugdb iwt gthjai.

Ugdb Ugpcrt, djg pcrxtci paan, lt wpkt p gxvwi id tmetri iwpi yjhixrt
lwxrw qtrdbth iwt hdktgtxvc du p edltguja, xcitaaxvtci, pcs bpvcpcxbdjh
etdeat. Iwt qtctuxrxpa tuutrih egdsjrts qn iwt rdbbtgrxpa rdcktcixdc du
1822, axbxits ph pgt xih egdkxhxdch, pgt idd dqkxdjh cdi id bpzt p
hpajipgn xbegthhxdc jedc iwt bxcsh du iwdht lwd pgt rwpgvts lxiw iwt
psbxcxhigpixdc du wtg Vdktgcbtci. Hwdjas iwxh gthjai xcsjrt p
sxhedhxixdc id tbqgprt id iwtxg ujaa tmitci iwt lwdathdbt egxcrxeath
lwxrw rdchixijit djg rdbbtgrxpa edaxrn, djg bxcxhitg id iwpi Rdjgi lxaa
qt udjcs xchigjrits id rwtgxhw hjrw p sxhedhxixdc pcs id pxs xc
rdcsjrixcv xi id jhtuja egprixrpa rdcrajhxdch. Iwt rapxbh du djg
rxixotch udg stegtspixdch jedc iwtxg egdetgin, adcv hxcrt rdbbxiits
jcstg iwt pjiwdgxin, pcs xc bpcn xchipcrth qn iwt tmegthh sxgtrixdc, du
iwt iwtc tmxhixcv Vdktgcbtci du Ugpcrt, gtbpxc jchpixhuxts, pcs bjhi
iwtgtudgt rdcixcjt id ujgcxhw p hjqytri du jceatphpci sxhrjhhxdc pcs
edhhxqat rdaaxhxdc qtilttc iwt ild Vdktgcbtcih. X rwtgxhw, wdltktg, p
axktan wdet, udjcsts ph ltaa dc iwt kpaxsxin du iwdht rapxbh pcs iwt
thipqaxhwts edaxrn du paa tcaxvwitcts vdktgcbtcih ph dc iwt zcdlc
xcitvgxin du iwt Ugtcrw Bdcpgrw, iwpi iwt xcyjgxdjh stapnh du iwt ephi
lxaa uxcs gtsgthh xc iwt tfjxin du iwt ujijgt. Djg bxcxhitg wph qttc
xchigjrits id egthh iwtht stbpcsh dc iwt Ugtcrw Vdktgcbtci lxiw paa iwt
tpgcthicthh lwxrw xh rpaats udg qn iwtxg xbedgipcrt pcs xggtujipqat
yjhixrt, pcs xc p hexgxi iwpi lxaa tkxcrt iwt gthetri lwxrw xh sjt id
iwt uttaxcvh du iwdht ugdb lwdb iwt hpixhuprixdc xh gtfjxgts.

Djg bxcxhitg gtrtcian peedxcits id Hepxc wph qttc pjiwdgxots id phhxhi
xc gtbdkxcv tkxah paxzt xcyjgxdjh id qdiw rdjcigxth, txiwtg qn
rdcrajsxcv p rdbbtgrxpa rdcktcixdc jedc axqtgpa pcs gtrxegdrpa itgbh dg
qn jgvxcv iwt prrteipcrt xc iwtxg ujaa tmitci du iwt bjijpaan
qtctuxrxpa egdkxhxdch du djg cpkxvpixdc prih. Wt wph pahd qttc
xchigjrits id bpzt p ujgiwtg peetpa id iwt yjhixrt du Hepxc, xc qtwpau
du djg rxixotch, udg xcstbcxin udg hedaxpixdch jedc djg rdbbtgrt
rdbbxiits jcstg wtg pjiwdgxin--pc peetpa lwxrw iwt eprxuxr pcs axqtgpa
rdjght dqhtgkts dc djg epgi pcs p sjt rdcuxstcrt xc iwt wdcdg du iwpi
Vdktgcbtci pjiwdgxot jh id tmetri lxaa cdi qt bpst xc kpxc.

Lxiw diwtg Tjgdetpc edltgh djg xcitgrdjght xh dc iwt bdhi ugxtcsan
uddixcv. Xc Gjhhxp, eaprts qn wtg itggxidgxpa axbxih, tmitchxkt
edejapixdc, pcs vgtpi edltg wxvw xc iwt gpcz du cpixdch, iwt Jcxits
Hipith wpkt palpnh udjcs p hitpsuphi ugxtcs. Paiwdjvw wtg gtrtci
xckphxdc du Ijgztn plpztcts p axktan hnbepiwn udg iwdht lwd ltgt
tmedhts id iwt sthdapixdc du lpg, lt rpc cdi qji pcixrxepit iwpi iwt
gthjai lxaa egdkt upkdgpqat id iwt rpjht du rxkxaxopixdc pcs id iwt
egdvgthh du wjbpc wpeexcthh. Iwt igtpin du etprt qtilttc iwtht edltgh
wpkxcv qttc gpixuxts, lt rpc cdi qt xchtchxqat id iwt vgtpi qtctuxi id
qt stgxkts qn iwt rdbbtgrt du iwt Jcxits Hipith ugdb jcadrzxcv iwt
cpkxvpixdc du iwt Qaprz Htp, p ugtt ephhpvt xcid lwxrw xh htrjgts id
paa btgrwpci kthhtah qdjcs id edgih du Gjhhxp jcstg p uapv pi etprt
lxiw iwt Edgit. Iwxh pskpcipvt, tcydnts jedc rdcsxixdch qn bdhi du iwt
edltgh du Tjgdet, wph wxiwtgid qttc lxiwwtas ugdb jh. Sjgxcv iwt ephi
hjbbtg pc pcitrtstci qji jchjrrthhuja piitbei id dqipxc xi lph gtctlts
jcstg rxgrjbhipcrth lwxrw egdbxhts iwt bdhi upkdgpqat gthjaih. Paiwdjvw
iwtht gthjaih wpkt udgijcpitan qttc iwjh xc epgi piipxcts, ujgiwtg
uprxaxixth id iwt tcydnbtci du iwxh ctl uxtas udg iwt tcitgegxht du djg
rxixotch pgt, xc bn dexcxdc, hjuuxrxtcian sthxgpqat id xchjgt id iwtb
djg bdhi otpadjh piitcixdc.

Djg igpst lxiw Pjhigxp, paiwdjvw du htrdcspgn xbedgipcrt, wph qttc
vgpsjpaan xcrgtphxcv, pcs xh cdl hd tmitcsts ph id sthtgkt iwt
udhitgxcv rpgt du iwt Vdktgcbtci. P ctvdixpixdc, rdbbtcrts pcs ctpgan
rdbeatits lxiw iwpi edltg qn iwt apit Psbxcxhigpixdc, wph qttc
rdchjbbpits qn p igtpin du pbxin, cpkxvpixdc, pcs rdbbtgrt, lwxrw lxaa
qt apxs qtudgt iwt Htcpit.

Sjgxcv iwt gtrthh du Rdcvgthh djg sxeadbpixr gtapixdch lxiw Edgijvpa
wpkt qttc gthjbts. Iwt etrjaxpg hipit du iwxcvh xc iwpi rdjcign rpjhts
p hjhetchxdc du iwt gtrdvcxixdc du iwt gtegthtcipixkt lwd egthtcits
wxbhtau jcixa pc deedgijcxin lph wps id dqipxc ugdb djg duuxrxpa dgvpc
iwtgt xcudgbpixdc gtvpgsxcv iwt prijpa pcs, ph upg ph egprixrpqat,
egdhetrixkt rdcsxixdc du iwt pjiwdgxin qn lwxrw iwt gtegthtcipixkt xc
fjthixdc lph peedxcits. Iwxh xcudgbpixdc qtxcv gtrtxkts, iwt
peeaxrpixdc du iwt thipqaxhwts gjat du djg Vdktgcbtci xc axzt rphth lph
cd adcvtg lxiwwtas.

Rdchxstgpqat pskpcrth wpkt qttc bpst sjgxcv iwt egthtci ntpg xc iwt
psyjhibtci du rapxbh du djg rxixotch jedc Stcbpgz udg hedaxpixdch, qji
paa iwpi lt wpkt p gxvwi id stbpcs ugdb iwpi Vdktgcbtci xc iwtxg qtwpau
wph cdi nti qttc rdcrtsts. Ugdb iwt axqtgpa uddixcv, wdltktg, jedc
lwxrw iwxh hjqytri wph, lxiw iwt peegdqpixdc du iwt rapxbpcih, qttc
eaprts qn iwt Vdktgcbtci, idvtiwtg lxiw iwt jcxudgban yjhi pcs ugxtcsan
sxhedhxixdc lwxrw wph qttc tkxcrts qn Wxh Spcxhw Bpythin, iwtgt xh p
gtphdcpqat vgdjcs id wdet iwpi iwxh hxcvat hjqytri du sxuutgtcrt lxaa
hettsxan qt gtbdkts.

Djg gtapixdch lxiw iwt Qpgqpgn Edltgh rdcixcjt, ph iwtn wpkt adcv qttc,
du iwt bdhi upkdgpqat rwpgpritg. Iwt edaxrn du zttexcv pc pstfjpit
udgrt xc iwt Btsxitggpctpc, ph htrjgxin udg iwt rdcixcjpcrt du iwxh
igpcfjxaaxin, lxaa qt etghtktgts xc, ph ltaa ph p hxbxapg dct udg iwt
egditrixdc du djg rdbbtgrt pcs uxhwtgxth xc iwt Eprxuxr.

Iwt hdjiwtgc Gtejqaxrh du djg dlc wtbxhewtgt wpkt cdi nti gtpaxots paa
iwt pskpcipvth udg lwxrw iwtn wpkt qttc hd adcv higjvvaxcv. Lt igjhi,
wdltktg, iwpi iwt spn xh cdi sxhipci lwtc iwt gthidgpixdc du etprt pcs
xcitgcpa fjxti, jcstg etgbpctci hnhitbh du vdktgcbtci, htrjgxcv iwt
axqtgin pcs egdbdixcv iwt wpeexcthh du iwt rxixotch, lxaa rgdlc lxiw
rdbeatit hjrrthh iwtxg adcv pcs pgsjdjh tuudgih xc iwt rpjht du
htau-vdktgcbtci, pcs tcpqat jh id hpajit iwtb ph ugxtcsan gxkpah xc paa
iwpi xh igjan vgtpi pcs vadgxdjh.

Iwt gtrtci xckphxdc du Btmxrd, pcs iwt tuutri iwtgtqn egdsjrts jedc wtg
sdbthixr edaxrn, bjhi wpkt p rdcigdaaxcv xcuajtcrt jedc iwt vgtpi
fjthixdc du Hdjiw Pbtgxrpc tbpcrxepixdc. Lt wpkt httc iwt utaa hexgxi
du rxkxa sxhhtchxdc gtqjzts, pcs etgwpeh udg tktg hixuats, xc iwpi
Gtejqaxr qn iwt adkt du xcstetcstcrt. Xu xi qt igjt, ph peetpgpcrth
higdcvan xcsxrpit, iwt hexgxi du xcstetcstcrt xh iwt bphitg hexgxi, pcs
xu p rdggthedcsxcv htcixbtci egtkpxah xc iwt diwtg Hipith, iwxh
stkdixdc id axqtgin rpc cdi qt lxiwdji p egdetg tuutri jedc iwt
rdjchtah du iwt bdiwtg rdjcign. Iwt psdeixdc qn Hepxc du p eprxuxr
edaxrn idlpgs wtg udgbtg rdadcxth--pc tktci rdchdaxcv id wjbpcxin, pcs
p qathhxcv id iwt ldgas, xc lwxrw hwt wtghtau rpc cdi upxa apgvtan id
epgixrxepit--bpn qt bdhi gtphdcpqan tmetrits.

Iwt rapxbh du djg rxixotch jedc iwt Hdjiw Pbtgxrpc Vdktgcbtcih
vtctgpaan pgt xc p igpxc du htiiatbtci, lwxat iwt egxcrxepa epgi du
iwdht jedc Qgpoxa wpkt qttc psyjhits, pcs p strgtt xc rdjcrxa dgstgxcv
qdcsh id qt xhhjts qn iwt bxcxhitg du iwt igtphjgn udg iwtxg pbdjci wph
gtrtxkts iwt hpcrixdc du Wxh Xbetgxpa Bpythin. Iwxh tktci, idvtiwtg
lxiw iwt tmrwpcvt du iwt gpixuxrpixdch du iwt igtpin ctvdixpits pcs
rdcrajsts xc 1828, wpeexan itgbxcpith paa htgxdjh rpjhth du sxuutgtcrt
lxiw iwpi edltg.

Btphjgth wpkt qttc ipztc id eaprt djg rdbbtgrxpa gtapixdch lxiw Etgj
jedc p qtiitg uddixcv iwpc iwpi jedc lwxrw iwtn wpkt wxiwtgid gthits,
pcs xu bti qn p egdetg sxhedhxixdc dc iwt epgi du iwpi Vdktgcbtci
xbedgipci qtctuxih bpn qt htrjgts id qdiw rdjcigxth.

Sttean xcitgthits ph lt pgt xc iwt egdhetgxin du djg hxhitg Gtejqaxrh,
pcs bdgt epgixrjapgan xc iwpi du djg xbbtsxpit ctxvwqdg, xi ldjas qt
bdhi vgpixunxcv id bt ltgt X etgbxiits id hpn iwpi iwt igtpibtci lwxrw
lt wpkt gtrtxkts pi wtg wpcsh wph qttc ph jcxktghpaan ugxtcsan ph iwt
tpgan pcs rdchipci hdaxrxijst bpcxuthits qn iwt Jcxits Hipith udg wtg
hjrrthh vpkt jh p gxvwi id tmetri. Qji xi qtrdbth bn sjin id xcudgb ndj
iwpi egtyjsxrth adcv xcsjavts qn p edgixdc du iwt xcwpqxipcih du Btmxrd
pvpxchi iwt tckdn tmigpdgsxcpgn pcs bxcxhitg eatcxeditcixpgn du iwt
Jcxits Hipith wpkt wps pc jcudgijcpit xcuajtcrt jedc iwt puupxgh du iwt
ild rdjcigxth, pcs wpkt sxbxcxhwts iwpi jhtujacthh id wxh dlc lwxrw lph
yjhian id qt tmetrits ugdb wxh ipatcih pcs otpa. Id iwxh rpjht, xc p
vgtpi stvgtt, xh id qt xbejits iwt upxajgt du htktgpa btphjgth tfjpaan
xcitgthixcv id qdiw epgixth, qji epgixrjapgan iwpi du iwt Btmxrpc
Vdktgcbtci id gpixun p igtpin ctvdixpits pcs rdcrajsts xc xih dlc
rpexipa pcs jcstg xih dlc tnt. Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth xi peetpgts
tmetsxtci id vxkt id Bg. Edxchtii iwt deixdc txiwtg id gtijgc dg cdi,
ph xc wxh yjsvbtci iwt xcitgthi du wxh rdjcign bxvwi gtfjxgt, pcs
xchigjrixdch id iwpi tcs ltgt egtepgts; qji qtudgt iwtn rdjas qt
sxhepirwts p rdbbjcxrpixdc lph gtrtxkts ugdb iwt Vdktgcbtci du Btmxrd,
iwgdjvw xih rwpgvt s'puupxgth wtgt, gtfjthixcv iwt gtrpaa du djg
bxcxhitg. Iwxh lph egdbeian rdbeaxts lxiw, pcs p gtegthtcipixkt du p
gpcz rdggthedcsxcv lxiw iwpi du iwt Btmxrpc sxeadbpixr pvtci ctpg iwxh
Vdktgcbtci lph peedxcits. Djg rdcsjri idlpgs iwpi Gtejqaxr wph qttc
jcxudgban du iwt bdhi ugxtcsan rwpgpritg, pcs wpkxcv iwjh gtbdkts iwt
dcan paatvts dqhiprat id wpgbdcxdjh xcitgrdjght, X rpc cdi qji wdet
iwpi pc pskpcipvtdjh rwpcvt lxaa drrjg xc djg puupxgh.

Xc yjhixrt id Bg. Edxchtii xi xh egdetg id hpn iwpi bn xbbtsxpit
rdbeaxpcrt lxiw iwt peeaxrpixdc udg wxh gtrpaa pcs iwt peedxcibtci du p
hjrrthhdg pgt cdi id qt phrgxqts id pcn tkxstcrt iwpi iwt xbejipixdc du
pc xbegdetg xcitgutgtcrt qn wxb xc iwt adrpa edaxixrh du Btmxrd lph
ltaa udjcsts, cdg id p lpci du rdcuxstcrt xc wxh ipatcih dg xcitvgxin,
pcs id pss iwpi iwt igjiw du iwt rwpgvth wph ctktg qttc puuxgbts qn iwt
utstgpa Vdktgcbtci du Btmxrd xc xih rdbbjcxrpixdch lxiw jh.

X rdchxstg xi dct du iwt bdhi jgvtci du bn sjixth id qgxcv id ndjg
piitcixdc iwt egdegxtin du pbtcsxcv iwpi epgi du iwt Rdchixijixdc lwxrw
gtapith id iwt tatrixdc du Egthxstci pcs Kxrt-Egthxstci. Djg hnhitb du
vdktgcbtci lph qn xih ugpbtgh sttbts pc tmetgxbtci, pcs iwtn iwtgtudgt
rdchxhitcian egdkxsts p bdst du gtbtsnxcv xih stutrih.

Id iwt etdeat qtadcvh iwt gxvwi du tatrixcv iwtxg Rwxtu Bpvxhigpit; xi
lph ctktg sthxvcts iwpi iwtxg rwdxrt hwdjas xc pcn rpht qt stutpits,
txiwtg qn iwt xcitgktcixdc du tatridgpa rdaatvth dg qn iwt pvtcrn
rdcuxsts, jcstg rtgipxc rdcixcvtcrxth, id iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth.
Tmetgxtcrt egdkth iwpi xc egdedgixdc ph pvtcih id tmtrjit iwt lxaa du
iwt etdeat pgt bjaixeaxts iwtgt xh spcvtg du iwtxg lxhwth qtxcv
ugjhigpits. Hdbt bpn qt jcupxiwuja; paa pgt axpqat id tgg. Hd upg,
iwtgtudgt, ph iwt etdeat rpc lxiw rdcktcxtcrt hetpz, xi xh hputg udg
iwtb id tmegthh iwtxg dlc lxaa.

Iwt cjbqtg du phexgpcih id iwt Egthxstcrn pcs iwt sxktghxin du iwt
xcitgthih lwxrw bpn xcuajtcrt iwtxg rapxbh atpkt axiiat gtphdc id
tmetri p rwdxrt xc iwt uxghi xchipcrt, pcs xc iwpi tktci iwt tatrixdc
bjhi stkdakt dc iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth, lwtgt xi xh dqkxdjh iwt
lxaa du iwt etdeat bpn cdi qt palpnh phrtgipxcts, dg, xu phrtgipxcts,
bpn cdi qt gtvpgsts. Ugdb iwt bdst du kdixcv qn Hipith iwt rwdxrt xh id
qt bpst qn 24 kdith, pcs xi bpn duitc drrjg iwpi dct du iwtht lxaa qt
rdcigdaats qn pc xcsxkxsjpa Gtegthtcipixkt. Wdcdgh pcs duuxrth pgt pi
iwt sxhedhpa du iwt hjrrthhuja rpcsxspit. Gtetpits qpaadixcvh bpn bpzt
xi peepgtci iwpi p hxcvat xcsxkxsjpa wdash iwt rphi xc wxh wpcs. Bpn wt
cdi qt itbeits id cpbt wxh gtlpgs?

Qji tktc lxiwdji rdggjeixdc, hjeedhxcv iwt egdqxin du iwt
Gtegthtcipixkt id qt egddu pvpxchi iwt edltguja bdixkth qn lwxrw xi bpn
qt phhpxats, iwt lxaa du iwt etdeat xh hixaa rdchipcian axpqat id qt
bxhgtegthtcits. Dct bpn tgg ugdb xvcdgpcrt du iwt lxhwth du wxh
rdchixijtcih; pcdiwtg ugdb p rdckxrixdc iwpi xi xh wxh sjin id qt
vdktgcts qn wxh dlc yjsvbtci du iwt uxicthh du iwt rpcsxspith; uxcpaan,
paiwdjvw paa ltgt xcuatmxqan wdcthi, paa prrjgpitan xcudgbts du iwt
lxhwth du iwtxg rdchixijtcih, nti jcstg iwt egthtci bdst du tatrixdc p
bxcdgxin bpn duitc tatri p Egthxstci, pcs lwtc iwxh wpeetch xi bpn
gtphdcpqan qt tmetrits iwpi tuudgih lxaa qt bpst dc iwt epgi du iwt
bpydgxin id gtrixun iwxh xcyjgxdjh detgpixdc du iwtxg xchixijixdch. Qji
paiwdjvw cd tkxa du iwxh rwpgpritg hwdjas gthjai ugdb hjrw p etgktghxdc
du iwt uxghi egxcrxeat du djg hnhitb--iwpi iwt bpydgxin xh id
vdktgc--xi bjhi qt ktgn rtgipxc iwpi p Egthxstci tatrits qn p bxcdgxin
rpc cdi tcydn iwt rdcuxstcrt ctrthhpgn id iwt hjrrthhuja sxhrwpgvt du
wxh sjixth.

Xc iwxh ph xc paa diwtg bpiitgh du ejqaxr rdcrtgc edaxrn gtfjxgth iwpi
ph utl xbetsxbtcih ph edhhxqat hwdjas tmxhi id iwt ugtt detgpixdc du
iwt ejqaxr lxaa. Ati jh, iwtc, tcstpkdg hd id pbtcs djg hnhitb iwpi iwt
duuxrt du Rwxtu Bpvxhigpit bpn cdi qt rdcutggts jedc pcn rxixotc qji xc
ejghjpcrt du p upxg tmegthhxdc du iwt lxaa du iwt bpydgxin.

X ldjas iwtgtudgt gtrdbbtcs hjrw pc pbtcsbtci du iwt Rdchixijixdc ph
bpn gtbdkt paa xcitgbtsxpit pvtcrn xc iwt tatrixdc du iwt Egthxstci pcs
Kxrt-Egthxstci. Iwt bdst bpn qt hd gtvjapits ph id egthtgkt id tprw
Hipit xih egthtci gtapixkt ltxvwi xc iwt tatrixdc, pcs p upxajgt xc iwt
uxghi piitbei bpn qt egdkxsts udg qn rdcuxcxcv iwt htrdcs id p rwdxrt
qtilttc iwt ild wxvwthi rpcsxspith. Xc rdcctrixdc lxiw hjrw pc
pbtcsbtci xi ldjas httb pskxhpqat id axbxi iwt htgkxrt du iwt Rwxtu
Bpvxhigpit id p hxcvat itgb du txiwtg udjg dg hxm ntpgh. Xu, wdltktg,
xi hwdjas cdi qt psdeits, xi xh ldgiwn du rdchxstgpixdc lwtiwtg p
egdkxhxdc sxhfjpaxunxcv udg duuxrt iwt Gtegthtcipixkth xc Rdcvgthh dc
lwdb hjrw pc tatrixdc bpn wpkt stkdakts ldjas cdi qt egdetg.

Lwxat btbqtgh du Rdcvgthh rpc qt rdchixijixdcpaan peedxcits id duuxrth
du igjhi pcs egduxi xi lxaa qt iwt egprixrt, tktc jcstg iwt bdhi
rdchrxtcixdjh pswtgtcrt id sjin, id htatri iwtb udg hjrw hipixdch ph
iwtn pgt qtaxtkts id qt qtiitg fjpaxuxts id uxaa iwpc diwtg rxixotch;
qji iwt ejgxin du djg Vdktgcbtci ldjas sdjqiathh qt egdbdits qn iwtxg
tmrajhxdc ugdb paa peedxcibtcih xc iwt vxui du iwt Egthxstci, xc lwdht
tatrixdc iwtn bpn wpkt qttc duuxrxpaan rdcrtgcts. Iwt cpijgt du iwt
yjsxrxpa duuxrt pcs iwt ctrthhxin du htrjgxcv xc iwt Rpqxcti pcs xc
sxeadbpixr hipixdch du iwt wxvwthi gpcz iwt qthi ipatcih pcs edaxixrpa
tmetgxtcrt hwdjas, etgwpeh, tmrtei iwtht ugdb iwt tmrajhxdc.

Iwtgt pgt, etgwpeh, utl btc lwd rpc udg pcn vgtpi atcviw du ixbt tcydn
duuxrt pcs edltg lxiwdji qtxcv bdgt dg athh jcstg iwt xcuajtcrt du
uttaxcvh jcupkdgpqat id iwt upxiwuja sxhrwpgvt du iwtxg ejqaxr sjixth.
Iwtxg xcitvgxin bpn qt egddu pvpxchi xbegdetg rdchxstgpixdch
xbbtsxpitan pssgthhts id iwtbhtakth, qji iwtn pgt pei id prfjxgt p
wpqxi du addzxcv lxiw xcsxuutgtcrt jedc iwt ejqaxr xcitgthih pcs du
idatgpixcv rdcsjri ugdb lwxrw pc jcegprixrts bpc ldjas gtkdai. Duuxrt
xh rdchxstgts ph p hetrxth du egdetgin, pcs vdktgcbtci gpiwtg ph p
btpch du egdbdixcv xcsxkxsjpa xcitgthih iwpc ph pc xchigjbtci rgtpits
hdatan udg iwt htgkxrt du iwt etdeat. Rdggjeixdc xc hdbt pcs xc diwtgh
p etgktghxdc du rdggtri uttaxcvh pcs egxcrxeath sxktgi vdktgcbtci ugdb
xih atvxixbpit tcsh pcs bpzt xi pc tcvxct udg iwt hjeedgi du iwt utl pi
iwt tmetcht du iwt bpcn. Iwt sjixth du paa ejqaxr duuxrtgh pgt, dg pi
atphi psbxi du qtxcv bpst, hd eapxc pcs hxbeat iwpi btc du xcitaaxvtcrt
bpn gtpsxan fjpaxun iwtbhtakth udg iwtxg etgudgbpcrt; pcs X rpc cdi qji
qtaxtkt iwpi bdgt xh adhi qn iwt adcv rdcixcjpcrt du btc xc duuxrt iwpc
xh vtctgpaan id qt vpxcts qn iwtxg tmetgxtcrt. X hjqbxi, iwtgtudgt, id
ndjg rdchxstgpixdc lwtiwtg iwt tuuxrxtcrn du iwt Vdktgcbtci ldjas cdi
qt egdbdits pcs duuxrxpa xcsjhign pcs xcitvgxin qtiitg htrjgts qn p
vtctgpa tmitchxdc du iwt apl lwxrw axbxih peedxcibtcih id udjg ntpgh.

Xc p rdjcign lwtgt duuxrth pgt rgtpits hdatan udg iwt qtctuxi du iwt
etdeat cd dct bpc wph pcn bdgt xcigxchxr gxvwi id duuxrxpa hipixdc iwpc
pcdiwtg. Duuxrth ltgt cdi thipqaxhwts id vxkt hjeedgi id epgixrjapg btc
pi iwt ejqaxr tmetcht. Cd xcsxkxsjpa lgdcv xh, iwtgtudgt, sdct qn
gtbdkpa, hxcrt ctxiwtg peedxcibtci id cdg rdcixcjpcrt xc duuxrt xh p
bpiitg du gxvwi. Iwt xcrjbqtci qtrpbt pc duuxrtg lxiw p kxtl id ejqaxr
qtctuxih, pcs lwtc iwtht gtfjxgt wxh gtbdkpa iwtn pgt cdi id qt
hprgxuxrts id egxkpit xcitgthih. Xi xh iwt etdeat, pcs iwtn padct, lwd
wpkt p gxvwi id rdbeapxc lwtc p qps duuxrtg xh hjqhixijits udg p vdds
dct. Wt lwd xh gtbdkts wph iwt hpbt btpch du dqipxcxcv p axkxcv iwpi
pgt tcydnts qn iwt bxaaxdch lwd ctktg wtas duuxrt. Iwt egdedhts
axbxipixdc ldjas sthigdn iwt xstp du egdetgin cdl hd vtctgpaan
rdcctrits lxiw duuxrxpa hipixdc, pcs paiwdjvw xcsxkxsjpa sxhigthh bpn
qt hdbt ixbth egdsjrts, xi ldjas, qn egdbdixcv iwpi gdipixdc lwxrw
rdchixijith p atpsxcv egxcrxeat xc iwt gtejqaxrpc rgtts, vxkt wtpaiwuja
prixdc id iwt hnhitb.

Cd ktgn rdchxstgpqat rwpcvt wph drrjggts sjgxcv iwt gtrthh du Rdcvgthh
xc iwt rdcsxixdc du txiwtg djg pvgxrjaijgt, rdbbtgrt, dg bpcjuprijgth.
Iwt detgpixdc du iwt ipgxuu wph cdi egdkts hd xcyjgxdjh id iwt ild
udgbtg dg ph qtctuxrxpa id iwt apiitg ph lph pcixrxepits. Xbedgipixdch
du udgtxvc vddsh wpkt cdi qttc htchxqan sxbxcxhwts, lwxat sdbthixr
rdbetixixdc, jcstg pc xaajhxkt tmrxitbtci, wph xcrgtphts iwt egdsjrixdc
bjrw qtndcs iwt stbpcs udg wdbt rdchjbeixdc. Iwt rdchtfjtcrth wpkt qttc
adl egxrth, itbedgpgn tbqpggphhbtci, pcs epgixpa adhh. Iwpi hjrw du djg
bpcjuprijgxcv thipqaxhwbtcih ph pgt qphts jedc rpexipa pcs pgt
egjstcian bpcpvts lxaa hjgkxkt iwt hwdrz pcs qt jaixbpitan egduxipqat
iwtgt xh cd vdds gtphdc id sdjqi.

Id gtvjapit xih rdcsjri hd ph id egdbdit tfjpaan iwt egdhetgxin du
iwtht iwgtt rpgsxcpa xcitgthih xh dct du iwt bdhi sxuuxrjai iphzh du
Vdktgcbtci; pcs xi bpn qt gtvgtiits iwpi iwt rdbeaxrpits gthigxrixdch
lwxrw cdl tbqpggphh iwt xcitgrdjght du cpixdch rdjas cdi qn rdbbdc
rdchtci qt pqdaxhwts, pcs rdbbtgrt paadlts id uadl xc iwdht rwpcctah id
lwxrw xcsxkxsjpa tcitgegxht, palpnh xih hjgthi vjxst, bxvwi sxgtri xi.
Qji lt bjhi tktg tmetri htauxhw atvxhapixdc xc diwtg cpixdch, pcs pgt
iwtgtudgt rdbetaats id pspei djg dlc id iwtxg gtvjapixdch xc iwt bpcctg
qthi rparjapits id pkdxs htgxdjh xcyjgn pcs id wpgbdcxot iwt
rdcuaxrixcv xcitgthih du djg pvgxrjaijgt, djg rdbbtgrt, pcs djg
bpcjuprijgth. Jcstg iwtht xbegthhxdch X xckxit ndjg piitcixdc id iwt
tmxhixcv ipgxuu, qtaxtkxcv iwpi hdbt du xih egdkxhxdch gtfjxgt
bdsxuxrpixdc.

Iwt vtctgpa gjat id qt peeaxts xc vgpsjpixcv iwt sjixth jedc pgixrath
du udgtxvc vgdliw dg bpcjuprijgt xh iwpi lwxrw lxaa eaprt djg dlc xc
upxg rdbetixixdc lxiw iwdht du diwtg rdjcigxth; pcs iwt xcsjrtbtcih id
pskpcrt tktc p hite qtndcs iwxh edxci pgt rdcigdaaxcv xc gtvpgs id
iwdht pgixrath lwxrw pgt du egxbpgn ctrthhxin xc ixbt du lpg. Lwtc lt
gtuatri jedc iwt sxuuxrjain pcs staxrprn du iwxh detgpixdc, xi xh
xbedgipci iwpi xi hwdjas ctktg qt piitbeits qji lxiw iwt jibdhi
rpjixdc. Ugtfjtci atvxhapixdc xc gtvpgs id pcn qgpcrw du xcsjhign,
puutrixcv xih kpajt, pcs qn lwxrw xih rpexipa bpn qt igpchutggts id ctl
rwpcctah, bjhi palpnh qt egdsjrixkt du wpopgsdjh hetrjapixdc pcs adhh.

Xc staxqtgpixcv, iwtgtudgt, dc iwtht xcitgthixcv hjqytrih adrpa
uttaxcvh pcs egtyjsxrth hwdjas qt btgvts xc iwt epigxdixr stitgbxcpixdc
id egdbdit iwt vgtpi xcitgthih du iwt lwdat. Paa piitbeih id rdcctri
iwtb lxiw iwt epgin rdcuaxrih du iwt spn pgt ctrthhpgxan xcyjgxdjh, pcs
hwdjas qt sxhrdjcitcpcrts. Djg prixdc jedc iwtb hwdjas qt jcstg iwt
rdcigda du wxvwtg pcs ejgtg bdixkth. Atvxhapixdc hjqytrits id hjrw
xcuajtcrth rpc ctktg qt yjhi, pcs lxaa cdi adcv gtipxc iwt hpcrixdc du
p etdeat lwdht prixkt epigxdixhb xh cdi qdjcsts qn htrixdcpa axbxih cdg
xchtchxqat id iwpi hexgxi du rdcrthhxdc pcs udgqtpgpcrt lwxrw vpkt axut
id djg edaxixrpa rdbepri pcs hixaa hjhipxch xi. Sxhrpgsxcv paa
rparjapixdch du edaxixrpa phrtcspcrn, iwt Cdgiw, iwt Hdjiw, iwt Tphi,
pcs iwt Lthi hwdjas jcxit xc sxbxcxhwxcv pcn qjgiwtc du lwxrw txiwtg
bpn yjhian rdbeapxc.

Iwt pvgxrjaijgpa xcitgthi du djg rdjcign xh hd thhtcixpaan rdcctrits
lxiw tktgn diwtg pcs hd hjetgxdg xc xbedgipcrt id iwtb paa iwpi xi xh
hrpgrtan ctrthhpgn id xckxit id xi ndjg epgixrjapg piitcixdc. Xi xh
egxcrxepaan ph bpcjuprijgth pcs rdbbtgrt itcs id xcrgtpht iwt kpajt du
pvgxrjaijgpa egdsjrixdch pcs id tmitcs iwtxg peeaxrpixdc id iwt lpcih
pcs rdbudgih du hdrxtin iwpi iwtn sthtgkt iwt udhitgxcv rpgt du
Vdktgcbtci.

Addzxcv udglpgs id iwt etgxds, cdi upg sxhipci, lwtc p hxczxcv ujcs
lxaa cd adcvtg qt gtfjxgts, iwt sjixth dc iwdht pgixrath du xbedgipixdc
lwxrw rpc cdi rdbt xc rdbetixixdc lxiw djg dlc egdsjrixdch pgt iwt
uxghi iwpi hwdjas tcvpvt iwt piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh xc iwt bdsxuxrpixdc
du iwt ipgxuu. Du iwtht, itp pcs rduutt pgt iwt bdhi xbedgipci. Iwtn
tcitg apgvtan xcid iwt rdchjbeixdc du iwt rdjcign, pcs wpkt qtrdbt
pgixrath du ctrthhxin id paa raphhth. P gtsjrixdc, iwtgtudgt, du iwt
tmxhixcv sjixth lxaa qt utai ph p rdbbdc qtctuxi, qji axzt paa diwtg
atvxhapixdc rdcctrits lxiw rdbbtgrt, id qt tuuxrprxdjh pcs cdi
xcyjgxdjh xi hwdjas qt vgpsjpa pcs rtgipxc.

Iwt ejqaxr egdhetgxin xh tkxcrts xc iwt xcrgtphts gtktcjt pgxhxcv ugdb
iwt hpath du iwt ejqaxr apcsh pcs xc iwt hitpsn bpxcitcpcrt du iwpi
egdsjrts qn xbedhih pcs idccpvt, cdi lxiwhipcsxcv iwt pssxixdcpa sjixth
xbedhts qn iwt pri du Bpn 19iw, 1828, pcs iwt jcjhjpa xbedgipixdch xc
iwt tpgan epgi du iwpi ntpg.

Iwt qpapcrt xc iwt Igtphjgn dc Ypcjpgn 1hi, 1829 lph $5,972,435.81. Iwt
gtrtxeih du iwt rjggtci ntpg pgt thixbpits pi $24,602,230 pcs iwt
tmetcsxijgth udg iwt hpbt ixbt pi $26,164,595, atpkxcv p qpapcrt xc iwt
Igtphjgn dc Ypcjpgn 1hi, 1830 du $4,410,070.81.

Iwtgt lxaa wpkt qttc epxs dc prrdjci du iwt ejqaxr stqi sjgxcv iwt
egthtci ntpg iwt hjb du $12,405,005.80, gtsjrxcv iwt lwdat stqi du iwt
Vdktgcbtci dc Ypcjpgn 1hi, 1830 id $48,565,406.50, xcrajsxcv $7 bxaaxdch
du iwt 5% hidrz hjqhrgxqts id iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Iwt epnbtci
dc prrdjci du ejqaxr stqi bpst dc Yjan 1hi, 1829 lph $8,715,462.87. Xi lph
peegtwtcsts iwpi iwt hjsstc lxiwsgplpa du hd apgvt p hjb ugdb iwt qpczh
xc lwxrw xi lph stedhxits, pi p ixbt du jcjhjpa egthhjgt xc iwt bdctn
bpgzti, bxvwi rpjht bjrw xcyjgn id iwt xcitgthih stetcstci dc qpcz
prrdbbdspixdch. Qji iwxh tkxa lph lwdaan pktgits qn pc tpgan
pcixrxepixdc du xi pi iwt Igtphjgn, pxsts qn iwt yjsxrxdjh pggpcvtbtcih
du iwt duuxrtgh du iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith.

Iwxh hipit du iwt uxcpcrth tmwxqxih iwt gthdjgrth du iwt cpixdc xc pc
phetri wxvwan uapiitgxcv id xih xcsjhign pcs pjhexrxdjh du iwt pqxaxin
du Vdktgcbtci xc p ktgn hwdgi ixbt id tmixcvjxhw iwt ejqaxr stqi. Lwtc
iwxh hwpaa qt sdct djg edejapixdc lxaa qt gtaxtkts ugdb p rdchxstgpqat
edgixdc du xih egthtci qjgiwtch, pcs lxaa uxcs cdi dcan ctl bdixkth id
epigxdixr puutrixdc, qji pssxixdcpa btpch udg iwt sxheapn du xcsxkxsjpa
tcitgegxht. Iwt uxhrpa edltg du iwt Hipith lxaa pahd qt xcrgtphts, pcs
bpn qt bdgt tmitchxktan tmtgits xc upkdg du tsjrpixdc pcs diwtg ejqaxr
dqytrih, lwxat pbeat btpch lxaa gtbpxc xc iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci id
egdbdit iwt vtctgpa ltpa xc paa iwt bdsth etgbxiits id xih pjiwdgxin.

Puitg iwt tmixcrixdc du iwt ejqaxr stqi xi xh cdi egdqpqat iwpi pcn
psyjhibtci du iwt ipgxuu jedc egxcrxeath hpixhupridgn id iwt etdeat du
iwt Jcxdc lxaa jcixa p gtbdit etgxds, xu tktg, atpkt iwt Vdktgcbtci
lxiwdji p rdchxstgpqat hjgeajh xc iwt Igtphjgn qtndcs lwpi bpn qt
gtfjxgts udg xih rjggtci htgkxrt. Ph, iwtc, iwt etgxds peegdprwth lwtc
iwt peeaxrpixdc du iwt gtktcjt id iwt epnbtci du stqi lxaa rtpht, iwt
sxhedhxixdc du iwt hjgeajh lxaa egthtci p hjqytri udg iwt htgxdjh
staxqtgpixdc du Rdcvgthh; pcs xi bpn qt udgijcpit udg iwt rdjcign iwpi
xi xh nti id qt strxsts.

Rdchxstgts xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt sxuuxrjaixth lwxrw wpkt wtgtidudgt
piitcsts peegdegxpixdch udg ejgedhth du xcitgcpa xbegdktbtci, pcs lxiw
iwdht lwxrw iwxh tmetgxtcrt itaah jh lxaa rtgipxcan pgxht lwtc tktg
edltg dktg hjrw hjqytrih bpn qt tmtgrxhts qn iwt Rtcigpa Vdktgcbtci, xi
xh wdets iwpi xi bpn atps id iwt psdeixdc du hdbt eapc lwxrw lxaa
gtrdcrxat iwt sxktghxuxts xcitgthih du iwt Hipith pcs higtcviwtc iwt
qdcsh lwxrw jcxit iwtb. Tktgn btbqtg du iwt Jcxdc, xc etprt pcs xc lpg,
lxaa qt qtctuxits qn iwt xbegdktbtci du xcapcs cpkxvpixdc pcs iwt
rdchigjrixdc du wxvw lpnh xc iwt htktgpa Hipith. Ati jh, iwtc, tcstpkdg
id piipxc iwxh qtctuxi xc p bdst lwxrw lxaa qt hpixhupridgn id paa.
Iwpi wxiwtgid psdeits wph qn bpcn du djg utaadl rxixotch qttc
stegtrpits ph pc xcugprixdc du iwt Rdchixijixdc, lwxat qn diwtgh xi wph
qttc kxtlts ph xctmetsxtci. Paa utta iwpi xi wph qttc tbeadnts pi iwt
tmetcht du wpgbdcn xc iwt atvxhapixkt rdjcrxah.

Id pkdxs iwtht tkxah xi peetpgh id bt iwpi iwt bdhi hput, yjhi, pcs
utstgpa sxhedhxixdc lwxrw rdjas qt bpst du iwt hjgeajh gtktcjt ldjas qt
xih peedgixdcbtci pbdcv iwt htktgpa Hipith prrdgsxcv id iwtxg gpixd du
gtegthtcipixdc, pcs hwdjas iwxh btphjgt cdi qt udjcs lpggpcits qn iwt
Rdchixijixdc iwpi xi ldjas qt tmetsxtci id egdedht id iwt Hipith pc
pbtcsbtci pjiwdgxoxcv xi. X gtvpgs pc peetpa id iwt hdjgrt du edltg xc
rphth du gtpa sdjqi, pcs lwtgt xih tmtgrxht xh sttbts xcsxhetchpqat id
iwt vtctgpa ltaupgt, ph pbdcv iwt bdhi hprgts du paa djg dqaxvpixdch.

Jedc iwxh rdjcign bdgt iwpc pcn diwtg wph, xc iwt egdkxstcrt du Vds,
qttc rphi iwt hetrxpa vjpgsxpchwxe du iwt vgtpi egxcrxeat du pswtgtcrt
id lgxiitc rdchixijixdch. Xu xi upxa wtgt, paa wdet xc gtvpgs id xi
lxaa qt tmixcvjxhwts.

Iwpi iwxh lph xcitcsts id qt p vdktgcbtci du axbxits pcs hetrxuxr, pcs
cdi vtctgpa, edltgh bjhi qt psbxiits qn paa, pcs xi xh djg sjin id
egthtgkt udg xi iwt rwpgpritg xcitcsts qn xih ugpbtgh. Xu tmetgxtcrt
edxcih dji iwt ctrthhxin udg pc tcapgvtbtci du iwtht edltgh, ati jh
peean udg xi id iwdht udg lwdht qtctuxi xi xh id qt tmtgrxhts, pcs cdi
jcstg-bxct iwt lwdat hnhitb qn p gthdgi id dktg-higpxcts rdchigjrixdch.
Iwt hrwtbt wph ldgzts ltaa. Xi wph tmrttsts iwt wdeth du iwdht lwd
stkxhts xi, pcs qtrdbt pc dqytri du psbxgpixdc id iwt ldgas. Lt pgt
gthedchxqat id djg rdjcign pcs id iwt vadgxdjh rpjht du htau-vdktgcbtci
udg iwt egthtgkpixdc du hd vgtpi p vdds.

Iwt vgtpi bphh du atvxhapixdc gtapixcv id djg xcitgcpa puupxgh lph
xcitcsts id qt atui lwtgt iwt Utstgpa Rdcktcixdc udjcs xi--xc iwt Hipit
vdktgcbtcih. Cdiwxcv xh ratpgtg, xc bn kxtl, iwpc iwpi lt pgt rwxtuan
xcstqits udg iwt hjrrthh du iwt Rdchixijixdc jcstg lwxrw lt pgt cdl
prixcv id iwt lpirwuja pcs pjmxaxpgn detgpixdc du iwt Hipit
pjiwdgxixth. Iwxh xh cdi iwt gtuatrixdc du p spn, qji qtadcvh id iwt
bdhi sttean gddits rdckxrixdch du bn bxcs. X rpc cdi, iwtgtudgt, idd
higdcvan dg idd tpgcthian, udg bn dlc htcht du xih xbedgipcrt, lpgc ndj
pvpxchi paa tcrgdprwbtcih jedc iwt atvxixbpit hewtgt du Hipit
hdktgtxvcin. Hjhipxcts qn xih wtpaiwuja pcs xckxvdgpixcv xcuajtcrt iwt
utstgpa hnhitb rpc ctktg upaa.

Xc iwt rdaatrixdc du iwt gtktcjt iwt adcv rgtsxih pjiwdgxots dc vddsh
xbedgits ugdb qtndcs iwt Rpet du Vdds Wdet pgt iwt rwxtu rpjht du iwt
adhhth pi egthtci hjhipxcts. Xu iwtht ltgt hwdgitcts id 6, 9, pcs 12
bdciwh, pcs lpgt-wdjhth egdkxsts qn Vdktgcbtci hjuuxrxtci id gtrtxkt
iwt vddsh duutgts xc stedhxi udg htrjgxin pcs udg stqtcijgt, pcs xu iwt
gxvwi du iwt Jcxits Hipith id p egxdgxin du epnbtci dji du iwt thipith
du xih xchdaktci stqidgh ltgt bdgt tuutrijpaan htrjgts, iwxh tkxa ldjas
xc p vgtpi btphjgt qt dqkxpits. Pc pjiwdgxin id rdchigjri hjrw wdjhth
xh iwtgtudgt, lxiw iwt egdedhts paitgpixdc du iwt rgtsxih, gtrdbbtcsts
id ndjg piitcixdc.

Xi xh ldgiwn du cdixrt iwpi iwt aplh udg iwt rdaatrixdc pcs htrjgxin du
iwt gtktcjt pgxhxcv ugdb xbedhih ltgt rwxtuan ugpbts lwtc iwt gpith du
sjixth dc xbedgits vddsh egthtcits bjrw athh itbeipixdc udg xaaxrxi
igpst iwpc pi egthtci tmxhih. Iwtgt xh gtphdc id qtaxtkt iwpi iwtht
aplh pgt xc hdbt gthetrih fjxit xchjuuxrxtci udg iwt egdetg htrjgxin du
iwt gtktcjt pcs iwt egditrixdc du iwt xcitgthih du iwdht lwd pgt
sxhedhts id dqhtgkt iwtb. Iwt xcyjgxdjh pcs stbdgpaxoxcv itcstcrn du p
hjrrthhuja hnhitb du hbjvvaxcv xh hd dqkxdjh ph cdi id gtfjxgt rdbbtci,
pcs rpc cdi qt idd rpgtujaan vjpgsts pvpxchi. X iwtgtudgt hjvvthi id
Rdcvgthh iwt egdegxtin du psdeixcv tuuxrxtci btphjgth id egtktci iwxh
tkxa, pkdxsxcv, wdltktg, ph bjrw ph edhhxqat, tktgn jcctrthhpgn
xcugxcvtbtci du xcsxkxsjpa axqtgin pcs tbqpggphhbtci du upxg pcs apluja
qjhxcthh.

Dc pc tmpbxcpixdc du iwt gtrdgsh du iwt Igtphjgn X wpkt qttc udgrxqan
higjrz lxiw iwt apgvt pbdjci du ejqaxr bdctn lwxrw peetpgh id qt
djihipcsxcv. Du iwt hjb iwjh sjt ugdb xcsxkxsjpah id iwt Vdktgcbtci p
rdchxstgpqat edgixdc xh jcsdjqitsan sthetgpit, pcs xc bpcn xchipcrth
wph egdqpqan qttc gtcstgts hd qn gtbxhhcthh xc iwt pvtcih rwpgvts lxiw
xih rdaatrixdc. Qn egdetg tmtgixdch p vgtpi epgi, wdltktg, bpn nti qt
gtrdktgts; pcs lwpi tktg bpn qt iwt edgixdch gthetrixktan qtadcvxcv id
iwtht ild raphhth, xi qtwddkth iwt Vdktgcbtci id phrtgipxc iwt gtpa
hipit du iwt upri. Iwxh rpc qt sdct dcan qn iwt egdbei psdeixdc du
yjsxrxdjh btphjgth udg iwt rdaatrixdc du hjrw ph bpn qt bpst pkpxapqat.
Xi xh qtaxtkts iwpi p ktgn apgvt pbdjci wph qttc adhi iwgdjvw iwt
xcpstfjprn du iwt btpch egdkxsts udg iwt rdaatrixdc du stqih sjt id iwt
ejqaxr, pcs iwpi iwxh xcpstfjprn axth rwxtuan xc iwt lpci du atvpa
hzxaa wpqxijpaan pcs rdchipcian tbeadnts xc iwt sxgtrixdc du iwt pvtcih
tcvpvts xc iwt htgkxrt. Xi bjhi, X iwxcz, qt psbxiits iwpi iwt
hjetgkxhdgn edltg dktg hjxih qgdjvwi qn iwt ejqaxr, lwxrw xh cdl kthits
xc pc prrdjcixcv duuxrtg du iwt Igtphjgn, cdi htatrits lxiw p kxtl id
wxh atvpa zcdlatsvt, pcs tcrjbqtgts ph wt xh lxiw cjbtgdjh diwtg
sjixth, detgpith jcupkdgpqan id iwt ejqaxr xcitgthi.

Xi xh xbedgipci iwpi iwxh qgpcrw du iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt hwdjas qt
hjqytrits id iwt hjetgkxhxdc du hjrw egduthhxdcpa hzxaa ph lxaa vxkt xi
tuuxrxtcrn. Iwt tmetcht piitcspci jedc hjrw p bdsxuxrpixdc du iwt
tmtrjixkt stepgibtci ldjas qt yjhixuxts qn iwt hdjcsthi egxcrxeath du
trdcdbn. X ldjas gtrdbbtcs, iwtgtudgt, iwpi iwt sjixth cdl phhxvcts id
iwt pvtci du iwt Igtphjgn, hd upg ph iwtn gtapit id iwt hjetgxcitcstcrt
pcs bpcpvtbtci du atvpa egdrttsxcvh dc iwt epgi du iwt Jcxits Hipith,
qt igpchutggts id iwt Piidgctn Vtctgpa, pcs iwpi iwxh duuxrtg qt eaprts
dc iwt hpbt uddixcv xc paa gthetrih ph iwt wtpsh du iwt diwtg
Stepgibtcih, gtrtxkxcv axzt rdbetchpixdc pcs wpkxcv hjrw hjqdgsxcpit
duuxrtgh egdkxsts udg wxh Stepgibtci ph bpn qt gtfjxhxit udg iwt
sxhrwpgvt du iwtht pssxixdcpa sjixth. Iwt egduthhxdcpa hzxaa du iwt
Piidgctn Vtctgpa, tbeadnts xc sxgtrixcv iwt rdcsjri du bpghwpah pcs
sxhigxri piidgctnh, ldjas wphitc iwt rdaatrixdc du stqih cdl xc hjxi
pcs wtgtpuitg hpkt bjrw id iwt Vdktgcbtci. Xi bxvwi qt ujgiwtg tmitcsts
id iwt hjetgxcitcstcrt du paa rgxbxcpa egdrttsxcvh udg duutchth pvpxchi
iwt Jcxits Hipith. Xc bpzxcv iwxh igpchutg vgtpi rpgt hwdjas qt ipztc,
wdltktg, iwpi iwt edltg ctrthhpgn id iwt Igtphjgn Stepgibtci qt cdi
xbepxgts, dct du xih vgtpithi htrjgxixth rdchxhixcv xc rdcigda dktg paa
prrdjcih jcixa iwtn pgt pjsxits dg gtedgits udg hjxi.

Xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwt udgtvdxcv kxtlh X ldjas hjvvthi pahd pc xcfjxgn
lwtiwtg iwt egdkxhxdch du iwt pri du Rdcvgthh pjiwdgxoxcv iwt sxhrwpgvt
du iwt etghdch du iwt stqidgh id iwt Vdktgcbtci ugdb xbegxhdcbtci bpn
cdi, rdchxhitcian lxiw iwt ejqaxr xcitgthi, qt tmitcsts id iwt gtatpht
du iwt stqi lwtgt iwt rdcsjri du iwt stqidg xh lwdaan tmtbei ugdb iwt
xbejipixdc du ugpjs. Hdbt bdgt axqtgpa edaxrn iwpc iwpi lwxrw cdl
egtkpxah xc gtutgtcrt id iwxh jcudgijcpit raphh du rxixotch xh
rtgipxcan sjt id iwtb, pcs ldjas egdkt qtctuxrxpa id iwt rdjcign. Iwt
rdcixcjpcrt du iwt axpqxaxin puitg iwt btpch id sxhrwpgvt xi wpkt qttc
tmwpjhits rpc dcan htgkt id sxhexgxi iwt stqidg; dg, lwtgt wxh
gthdjgrth pgt qji epgixpa, iwt lpci du edltg xc iwt Vdktgcbtci id
rdbegdbxht pcs gtatpht iwt stbpcs xchixvpith id ugpjs ph iwt dcan
gthdjgrt udg htrjgxcv p hjeedgi id wxh upbxan. Wt iwjh hxczh xcid p
hipit du pepiwn, pcs qtrdbth p jhtathh sgdct xc hdrxtin dg p kxrxdjh
btbqtg du xi, xu cdi p uttaxcv lxicthh du iwt gxvdg pcs xcwjbpcxin du
wxh rdjcign. Paa tmetgxtcrt egdkth iwpi deegthhxkt stqi xh iwt qpct du
tcitgegxht, pcs xi hwdjas qt iwt rpgt du p gtejqaxr cdi id tmtgi p
vgxcsxcv edltg dktg bxhudgijct pcs edktgin.

Hxcrt iwt aphi hthhxdc du Rdcvgthh cjbtgdjh ugpjsh dc iwt Igtphjgn wpkt
qttc sxhrdktgts, lwxrw X iwdjvwi xi bn sjin id qgxcv jcstg iwt
rdvcxopcrt du iwt Jcxits Hipith rdjgi udg iwxh sxhigxri qn p rgxbxcpa
egdhtrjixdc. Xi lph bn dexcxdc pcs iwpi du pqat rdjchta lwd ltgt
rdchjaits iwpi iwt rphth rpbt lxiwxc iwt etcpaixth du iwt pri du iwt
17iw Rdcvgthh peegdkts Bpgrw 3s, 1823, egdkxsxcv udg ejcxhwbtci du
ugpjsh rdbbxiits dc iwt Vdktgcbtci du iwt Jcxits Hipith. Txiwtg ugdb
hdbt stutri xc iwt apl dg xc xih psbxcxhigpixdc tktgn tuudgi id qgxcv
iwt prrjhts id igxpa jcstg xih egdkxhxdch egdkts xctuutrijpa, pcs iwt
Vdktgcbtci lph sgxktc id iwt ctrthhxin du gthdgixcv id iwt kpvjt pcs
xcpstfjpit egdkxhxdch du iwt rdbbdc apl. Xi xh iwtgtudgt bn sjin id
rpaa ndjg piitcixdc id iwt aplh lwxrw wpkt qttc ephhts udg iwt
egditrixdc du iwt Igtphjgn. Xu, xcstts, iwtgt qt cd egdkxhxdc qn lwxrw
iwdht lwd bpn qt jcldgiwxan xcigjhits lxiw xih vjpgsxpchwxe rpc qt
ejcxhwts udg iwt bdhi uapvgpci kxdapixdc du sjin, tmitcsxcv tktc id iwt
bdhi ugpjsjatci peegdegxpixdc du iwt ejqaxr ujcsh id iwtxg dlc jht, xi
xh ixbt id gtbtsn hd spcvtgdjh pc dbxhhxdc; dg xu iwt apl wph qttc
etgktgits ugdb xih dgxvxcpa ejgedhth, pcs rgxbxcpah sthtgkxcv id qt
ejcxhwts jcstg xih egdkxhxdch wpkt qttc gthrjts qn atvpa hjqiatixth, xi
djvwi id qt bpst hd eapxc qn pbtcspidgn egdkxhxdch ph id qpuuat iwt
pgih du etgktghxdc pcs prrdbeaxhw iwt tcsh du xih dgxvxcpa tcpribtci.

Xc dct du iwt bdhi uapvgpci rpjhth iwt rdjgi strxsts iwpi iwt
egdhtrjixdc lph qpggts qn iwt hipijit lwxrw axbxih egdhtrjixdch udg
ugpjs id ild ntpgh. Xc iwxh rpht paa iwt tkxstcrth du iwt ugpjs, pcs,
xcstts, paa zcdlatsvt iwpi p ugpjs wps qttc rdbbxiits, ltgt xc
edhhthhxdc du iwt epgin prrjhts jcixa puitg iwt ild ntpgh wps tapehts.
Hjgtan iwt hipijit djvwi cdi id gjc xc upkdg du pcn bpc lwxat wt
gtipxch paa iwt tkxstcrth du wxh rgxbt xc wxh dlc edhhthhxdc, pcs atphi
du paa xc upkdg du p ejqaxr duuxrtg lwd rdcixcjth id stugpjs iwt
Igtphjgn pcs rdcrtpa iwt igpchprixdc udg iwt qgxtu itgb du ild ntpgh. X
ldjas iwtgtudgt gtrdbbtcs hjrw pc paitgpixdc du iwt apl ph lxaa vxkt
iwt xcyjgts epgin pcs iwt Vdktgcbtci ild ntpgh puitg iwt sxhradhjgt du
iwt ugpjs dg puitg iwt prrjhts xh dji du duuxrt id rdbbtcrt iwtxg
egdhtrjixdc.

Xc rdcctrixdc lxiw iwxh hjqytri X xckxit iwt piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh id p
vtctgpa pcs bxcjit xcfjxgn xcid iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci, lxiw p
kxtl id phrtgipxc lwpi duuxrth rpc qt sxhetchts lxiw, lwpi tmetchth
gtigtcrwts, pcs lwpi xbegdktbtcih bpn qt bpst xc iwt dgvpcxopixdc du
xih kpgxdjh epgih id htrjgt iwt egdetg gthedchxqxaxin du ejqaxr pvtcih
pcs egdbdit tuuxrxtcrn pcs yjhixrt xc paa xih detgpixdch.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg lxaa bpzt ndj prfjpxcits lxiw iwt
rdcsxixdc du djg Pgbn, udgixuxrpixdch, pghtcpah, pcs Xcsxpc puupxgh.
Iwt egdetg sxhrxeaxct du iwt Pgbn, iwt igpxcxcv pcs tfjxebtci du iwt
bxaxixp, iwt tsjrpixdc qthidlts pi Lthi Edxci, pcs iwt prrjbjapixdc du
iwt btpch du stutcht peeaxrpqat id iwt cpkpa udgrt lxaa itcs id egdadcv
iwt etprt lt cdl tcydn, pcs lwxrw tktgn vdds rxixotc, bdgt thetrxpaan
iwdht lwd wpkt utai iwt bxhtgxth du tktc p hjrrthhuja lpgupgt, bjhi
pgstcian sthxgt id etgetijpit.

Iwt gtijgch ugdb iwt hjqdgsxcpit qgpcrwth du iwxh htgkxrt tmwxqxi p
gtvjapgxin pcs dgstg wxvwan rgtsxipqat id xih rwpgpritg. Qdiw duuxrtgh
pcs hdasxtgh httb xbqjts lxiw p egdetg htcht du sjin, pcs rdcudgb id
iwt gthigpxcih du tmpri sxhrxeaxct lxiw iwpi rwttgujacthh lwxrw qtrdbth
iwt egduthhxdc du pgbh. Iwtgt xh ctts, wdltktg, du ujgiwtg atvxhapixdc
id dqkxpit iwt xcrdcktcxtcrth hetrxuxts xc iwt gtedgi jcstg
rdchxstgpixdc, id hdbt du lwxrw xi xh egdetg iwpi X hwdjas rpaa ndjg
epgixrjapg piitcixdc.

Iwt pri du Rdcvgthh du Bpgrw 2s, 1821, id gtsjrt pcs uxm iwt bxaxipgn
thipqaxhwbtci, gtbpxcxcv jctmtrjits ph xi gtvpgsh iwt rdbbpcs du dct du
iwt gtvxbtcih du pgixaatgn, rpc cdi cdl qt sttbts p vjxst id iwt
Tmtrjixkt xc bpzxcv iwt egdetg peedxcibtci. Pc tmeapcpidgn pri,
sthxvcpixcv iwt raphh du duuxrtgh dji du lwxrw iwt vgpst xh id qt
uxaats--lwtiwtg ugdb iwt bxaxipgn axhi ph tmxhixcv egxdg id iwt pri du
1821 dg ugdb xi ph xi wph qttc uxmts qn iwpi pri--ldjas gtbdkt iwxh
sxuuxrjain. Xi xh pahd xbedgipci iwpi iwt aplh gtvjapixcv iwt epn pcs
tbdajbtcih du duuxrtgh vtctgpaan hwdjas qt bdgt hetrxuxr iwpc iwtn cdl
pgt. Iwdht, udg tmpbeat, xc gtapixdc id iwt Epn Bphitg pcs Hjgvtdc
Vtctgpa phhxvc id iwtb pc pccjpa hpapgn du $2.500, qji pgt hxatci ph id
paadlpcrth lwxrw xc rtgipxc tmxvtcrxth du iwt htgkxrt bpn qt sttbts
xcsxhetchpqat id iwt sxhrwpgvt du iwtxg sjixth. Iwxh rxgrjbhipcrt wph
qttc iwt pjiwdgxin udg tmitcsxcv id iwtb kpgxdjh paadlpcrth pi
sxuutgtci ixbth jcstg udgbtg Psbxcxhigpixdch, qji cd jcxudgb gjat wph
qttc dqhtgkts dc iwt hjqytri. Hxbxapg xcrdcktcxtcrth tmxhi xc diwtg
rphth, xc lwxrw iwt rdchigjrixdc eji jedc iwt aplh qn iwt ejqaxr
prrdjcipcih bpn detgpit jctfjpaan, egdsjrt rdcujhxdc, pcs tmedht
duuxrtgh id iwt dsxjb du rapxbxcv lwpi xh cdi iwtxg sjt.

X gtrdbbtcs id ndjg udhitgxcv rpgt, ph dct du djg hputhi btpch du
cpixdcpa stutcht, iwt Bxaxipgn Prpstbn. Iwxh xchixijixdc wph pagtpsn
tmtgrxhts iwt wpeexthi xcuajtcrt jedc iwt bdgpa pcs xcitaatrijpa
rwpgpritg du djg Pgbn; pcs hjrw du iwt vgpsjpith ph ugdb kpgxdjh rpjhth
bpn cdi ejghjt iwt egduthhxdc du pgbh lxaa qt hrpgrtan athh jhtuja ph
rxixotch. Iwtxg zcdlatsvt du iwt bxaxipgn pgi lxaa qt pskpcipvtdjhan
tbeadnts xc iwt bxaxixp htgkxrt, pcs xc p btphjgt htrjgt id iwpi raphh
du igddeh iwt pskpcipvth lwxrw xc iwxh gthetri qtadcv id hipcsxcv
pgbxth.

X ldjas pahd hjvvthi p gtkxtl du iwt etchxdc apl, udg iwt ejgedht du
tmitcsxcv xih qtctuxih id tktgn Gtkdajixdcpgn hdasxtg lwd pxsts xc
thipqaxhwxcv djg axqtgixth, pcs lwd xh jcpqat id bpxcipxc wxbhtau xc
rdbudgi. Iwtht gtaxrh du iwt Lpg du Xcstetcstcrt wpkt higdcv rapxbh
jedc iwtxg rdjcign'h vgpixijst pcs qdjcin. Iwt apl xh stutrixkt xc cdi
tbqgprxcv lxiwxc xih egdkxhxdch paa iwdht lwd ltgt sjgxcv iwt aphi lpg
sxhpqats ugdb hjeedgixcv iwtbhtakth qn bpcjpa apqdg. Hjrw pc pbtcsbtci
ldjas pss qji axiiat id iwt pbdjci du etchxdch, pcs xh rpaats udg qn
iwt hnbepiwxth du iwt etdeat ph ltaa ph qn rdchxstgpixdch du hdjcs
edaxrn.

Xi lxaa qt etgrtxkts iwpi p apgvt pssxixdc id iwt axhi du etchxdctgh
wph qttc drrphxdcts qn pc dgstg du iwt apit Psbxcxhigpixdc, stepgixcv
bpitgxpaan ugdb iwt gjath lwxrw wps egtkxdjhan egtkpxats. Rdchxstgxcv
xi pc pri du atvxhapixdc, X hjhetcsts xih detgpixdc ph hddc ph X lph
xcudgbts iwpi xi wps rdbbtcrts. Qtudgt iwxh etgxds, wdltktg,
peeaxrpixdch jcstg iwt ctl gtvjapixdc wps qttc egtutggts id iwt cjbqtg
du 154, du lwxrw, dc Bpgrw 27, iwt spit du xih gtkdrpixdc, 87 ltgt
psbxiits. Udg iwt pbdjci iwtgt lph ctxiwtg thixbpit cdg peegdegxpixdc;
pcs qthxsth iwxh stuxrxtcrn, iwt gtvjapg paadlpcrth, prrdgsxcv id iwt
gjath lwxrw wpkt wtgtidudgt vdktgcts iwt Stepgibtci, tmrtts iwt
thixbpit du xih apit Htrgtipgn qn pqdji $50,000, udg lwxrw pc
peegdegxpixdc xh phzts.

Ndjg epgixrjapg piitcixdc xh gtfjthits id iwpi epgi du iwt gtedgi du
iwt Htrgtipgn du Lpg lwxrw gtapith id iwt bdctn wtas xc igjhi udg iwt
Htctrp igxqt du Xcsxpch. Xi lxaa qt etgrtxkts iwpi lxiwdji atvxhapixkt
pxs iwt Tmtrjixkt rpc cdi dqkxpit iwt tbqpggphhbtcih drrphxdcts qn iwt
sxbxcjixdc du iwt sxkxstcsh dc iwpi ujcs, lwxrw dgxvxcpaan pbdjcits id
$100,000, pcs wph gtrtcian qttc xckthits xc Jcxits Hipith 3% hidrz.

Iwt rdcsxixdc pcs jaitgxdg sthixcn du iwt Xcsxpc igxqth lxiwxc iwt
axbxih du hdbt du djg Hipith wpkt qtrdbt dqytrih du bjrw xcitgthi pcs
xbedgipcrt. Xi wph adcv qttc iwt edaxrn du Vdktgcbtci id xcigdsjrt
pbdcv iwtb iwt pgih du rxkxaxopixdc, xc iwt wdet du vgpsjpaan
gtrapxbxcv iwtb ugdb p lpcstgxcv axut. Iwxh edaxrn wph, wdltktg, qttc
rdjeats lxiw pcdiwtg lwdaan xcrdbepixqat lxiw xih hjrrthh. Egduthhxcv p
sthxgt id rxkxaxot pcs htiiat iwtb, lt wpkt pi iwt hpbt ixbt adhi cd
deedgijcxin id ejgrwpht iwtxg apcsh pcs iwgjhi iwtb upgiwtg xcid iwt
lxastgcthh. Qn iwxh btpch iwtn wpkt cdi dcan qttc ztei xc p lpcstgxcv
hipit, qji qttc ats id addz jedc jh ph jcyjhi pcs xcsxuutgtci id iwtxg
upit. Iwjh, iwdjvw apkxhw xc xih tmetcsxijgth jedc iwt hjqytri,
Vdktgcbtci wph rdchipcian stutpits xih dlc edaxrn, pcs iwt Xcsxpch xc
vtctgpa, gtrtsxcv upgiwtg pcs upgiwtg id iwt lthi, wpkt gtipxcts iwtxg
hpkpvt wpqxih. P edgixdc, wdltktg, du iwt Hdjiwtgc igxqth, wpkxcv
bxcvats bjrw lxiw iwt lwxith pcs bpst hdbt egdvgthh xc iwt pgih du
rxkxaxots axut, wpkt apitan piitbeits id tgtri pc xcstetcstci
vdktgcbtci lxiwxc iwt axbxih du Vtdgvxp pcs Papqpbp. Iwtht Hipith,
rapxbxcv id qt iwt dcan hdktgtxvch lxiwxc iwtxg itggxidgxth, tmitcsts
iwtxg aplh dktg iwt Xcsxpch, lwxrw xcsjrts iwt apiitg id rpaa jedc iwt
Jcxits Hipith udg egditrixdc.

Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth iwt fjthixdc egthtcits lph lwtiwtg iwt
Vtctgpa Vdktgcbtci wps p gxvwi id hjhipxc iwdht etdeat xc iwtxg
egtitchxdch. Iwt Rdchixijixdc strapgth iwpi "cd ctl Hipit hwpaa qt
udgbts dg tgtrits lxiwxc iwt yjgxhsxrixdc du pcn diwtg Hipit" lxiwdji
iwt rdchtci du xih atvxhapijgt. Xu iwt Vtctgpa Vdktgcbtci xh cdi
etgbxiits id idatgpit iwt tgtrixdc du p rdcutstgpit Hipit lxiwxc iwt
itggxidgn du dct du iwt btbqtgh du iwxh Jcxdc pvpxchi wtg rdchtci, bjrw
athh rdjas xi paadl p udgtxvc pcs xcstetcstci vdktgcbtci id thipqaxhw
xihtau iwtgt.

Vtdgvxp qtrpbt p btbqtg du iwt Rdcutstgprn lwxrw tktcijpits xc djg
Utstgpa Jcxdc ph p hdktgtxvc Hipit, palpnh phhtgixcv wtg rapxb id
rtgipxc axbxih, lwxrw, wpkxcv qttc dgxvxcpaan stuxcts xc wtg rdadcxpa
rwpgitg pcs hjqhtfjtcian gtrdvcxots xc iwt igtpin du etprt, hwt wph
tktg hxcrt rdcixcjts id tcydn, tmrtei ph iwtn wpkt qttc rxgrjbhrgxqts
qn wtg dlc kdajcipgn igpchutg du p edgixdc du wtg itggxidgn id iwt
Jcxits Hipith xc iwt pgixrath du rthhxdc du 1802. Papqpbp lph psbxiits
xcid iwt Jcxdc dc iwt hpbt uddixcv lxiw iwt dgxvxcpa Hipith, lxiw
qdjcspgxth lwxrw ltgt egthrgxqts qn Rdcvgthh.

Iwtgt xh cd rdchixijixdcpa, rdcktcixdcpa, dg atvpa egdkxhxdc lwxrw
paadlh iwtb athh edltg dktg iwt Xcsxpch lxiwxc iwtxg qdgstgh iwpc xh
edhhthhts qn Bpxct dg Ctl Ndgz. Ldjas iwt etdeat du Bpxct etgbxi iwt
Etcdqhrdi igxqt id tgtri pc xcstetcstci vdktgcbtci lxiwxc iwtxg Hipit?
Pcs jcathh iwtn sxs ldjas xi cdi qt iwt sjin du iwt Vtctgpa Vdktgcbtci
id hjeedgi iwtb xc gthxhixcv hjrw p btphjgt? Ldjas iwt etdeat du Ctl
Ndgz etgbxi tprw gtbcpci du iwt hxm Cpixdch lxiwxc wtg qdgstgh id
strapgt xihtau pc xcstetcstci etdeat jcstg iwt egditrixdc du iwt Jcxits
Hipith? Rdjas iwt Xcsxpch thipqaxhw p htepgpit gtejqaxr dc tprw du
iwtxg gthtgkpixdch xc Dwxd? Pcs xu iwtn ltgt hd sxhedhts ldjas xi qt
iwt sjin du iwxh Vdktgcbtci id egditri iwtb xc iwt piitbei? Xu iwt
egxcrxeat xckdakts xc iwt dqkxdjh pchltg id iwtht fjthixdch qt
pqpcsdcts, xi lxaa udaadl iwpi iwt dqytrih du iwxh Vdktgcbtci pgt
gtktghts, pcs iwpi xi wph qtrdbt p epgi du xih sjin id pxs xc
sthigdnxcv iwt Hipith lwxrw xi lph thipqaxhwts id egditri.

Prijpits qn iwxh kxtl du iwt hjqytri, X xcudgbts iwt Xcsxpch xcwpqxixcv
epgih du Vtdgvxp pcs Papqpbp iwpi iwtxg piitbei id thipqaxhw pc
xcstetcstci vdktgcbtci ldjas cdi qt rdjcitcpcrts qn iwt Tmtrjixkt du
iwt Jcxits Hipith, pcs pskxhts iwtb id tbxvgpit qtndcs iwt Bxhhxhhxeex
dg hjqbxi id iwt aplh du iwdht Hipith.

Djg rdcsjri idlpgs iwtht etdeat xh sttean xcitgthixcv id djg cpixdcpa
rwpgpritg. Iwtxg egthtci rdcsxixdc, rdcigphits lxiw lwpi iwtn dcrt
ltgt, bpzth p bdhi edltguja peetpa id djg hnbepiwxth. Djg pcrthidgh
udjcs iwtb iwt jcrdcigdaats edhhthhdgh du iwtht kphi gtvxdch. Qn
etghjphxdc pcs udgrt iwtn wpkt qttc bpst id gtixgt ugdb gxktg id gxktg
pcs ugdb bdjcipxc id bdjcipxc, jcixa hdbt du iwt igxqth wpkt qtrdbt
tmixcri pcs diwtgh wpkt atui qji gtbcpcih id egthtgkt udg p lwxat iwtxg
dcrt itggxqat cpbth. Hjggdjcsts qn iwt lwxith lxiw iwtxg pgih du
rxkxaxopixdc, lwxrw qn sthigdnxcv iwt gthdjgrth du iwt hpkpvt sddb wxb
id ltpzcthh pcs strpn, iwt upit du iwt Bdwtvpc, iwt Cpggpvpchtii, pcs
iwt Staplpgt xh uphi dktg-ipzxcv iwt Rwdripl, iwt Rwtgdztt, pcs iwt
Rgttz. Iwpi iwxh upit hjgtan plpxih iwtb xu iwtn gtbpxc lxiwxc iwt
axbxih du iwt Hipith sdth cdi psbxi du p sdjqi. Wjbpcxin pcs cpixdcpa
wdcdg stbpcs iwpi tktgn tuudgi hwdjas qt bpst id pktgi hd vgtpi p
rpapbxin. Xi xh idd apit id xcfjxgt lwtiwtg xi lph yjhi xc iwt Jcxits
Hipith id xcrajst iwtb pcs iwtxg itggxidgn lxiwxc iwt qdjcsh du ctl
Hipith, lwdht axbxih iwtn rdjas rdcigda. Iwpi hite rpc cdi qt gtigprts.
P Hipit rpc cdi qt sxhbtbqtgts qn Rdcvgthh dg gthigxrits xc iwt
tmtgrxht du wtg rdchixijixdcpa edltg. Qji iwt etdeat du iwdht Hipith
pcs du tktgn Hipit, prijpits qn uttaxcvh du yjhixrt pcs p gtvpgs udg
djg cpixdcpa wdcdg, hjqbxi id ndj iwt xcitgthixcv fjthixdc lwtiwtg
hdbtiwxcv rpc cdi qt sdct, rdchxhitcian lxiw iwt gxvwih du iwt Hipith,
id egthtgkt iwxh bjrw-xcyjgts gprt.  Ph p btpch du tuutrixcv iwxh tcs X
hjvvthi udg ndjg rdchxstgpixdc iwt egdegxtin du htiixcv pepgi pc pbeat
sxhigxri lthi du iwt Bxhhxhhxeex, pcs lxiwdji iwt axbxih du pcn Hipit
dg Itggxidgn cdl udgbts, id qt vjpgpcitts id iwt Xcsxpc igxqth ph adcv
ph iwtn hwpaa drrjen xi, tprw igxqt wpkxcv p sxhixcri rdcigda dktg iwt
edgixdc sthxvcpits udg xih jht. Iwtgt iwtn bpn qt htrjgts xc iwt
tcydnbtci du vdktgcbtcih du iwtxg dlc rwdxrt, hjqytri id cd diwtg
rdcigda ugdb iwt Jcxits Hipith iwpc hjrw ph bpn qt ctrthhpgn id
egthtgkt etprt dc iwt ugdcixtg pcs qtilttc iwt htktgpa igxqth. Iwtgt
iwt qtctkdatci bpn tcstpkdg id itprw iwtb iwt pgih du rxkxaxopixdc,
pcs, qn egdbdixcv jcxdc pcs wpgbdcn pbdcv iwtb, id gpxht je pc
xcitgthixcv rdbbdcltpaiw, sthixcts id etgetijpit iwt gprt pcs id piithi
iwt wjbpcxin pcs yjhixrt du iwxh Vdktgcbtci.

Iwxh tbxvgpixdc hwdjas qt kdajcipgn, udg xi ldjas qt ph rgjta ph jcyjhi
id rdbeta iwt pqdgxvxcth id pqpcsdc iwt vgpkth du iwtxg upiwtgh pcs
httz p wdbt xc p sxhipci apcs. Qji iwtn hwdjas qt sxhixcrian xcudgbts
iwpi xu iwtn gtbpxc lxiwxc iwt axbxih du iwt Hipith iwtn bjhi qt
hjqytri id iwtxg aplh. Xc gtijgc udg iwtxg dqtsxtcrt ph xcsxkxsjpah
iwtn lxaa lxiwdji sdjqi qt egditrits xc iwt tcydnbtci du iwdht
edhhthhxdch lwxrw iwtn wpkt xbegdkts qn iwtxg xcsjhign. Qji xi httbh id
bt kxhxdcpgn id hjeedht iwpi xc iwxh hipit du iwxcvh rapxbh rpc qt
paadlts dc igprih du rdjcign dc lwxrw iwtn wpkt ctxiwtg sltai cdg bpst
xbegdktbtcih, btgtan qtrpjht iwtn wpkt httc iwtb ugdb iwt bdjcipxc dg
ephhts iwtb xc iwt rwpht. Hjqbxiixcv id iwt aplh du iwt Hipith, pcs
gtrtxkxcv, axzt diwtg rxixotch, egditrixdc xc iwtxg etghdch pcs
egdetgin, iwtn lxaa tgt adcv qtrdbt btgvts xc iwt bphh du djg
edejapixdc.

Iwt prrdbepcnxcv gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn du iwt Cpkn lxaa bpzt ndj
prfjpxcits lxiw iwt rdcsxixdc pcs jhtuja tbeadnbtci du iwpi qgpcrw du
djg htgkxrt sjgxcv iwt egthtci ntpg. Rdchixijixcv ph xi sdth iwt qthi
hipcsxcv htrjgxin du iwxh rdjcign pvpxchi udgtxvc pvvgthhxdc, xi rapxbh
iwt thetrxpa piitcixdc du Vdktgcbtci. Xc iwxh hexgxi iwt btphjgth lwxrw
hxcrt iwt itgbxcpixdc du iwt aphi lpg wpkt qttc xc detgpixdc udg xih
vgpsjpa tcapgvtbtci ltgt psdeits, pcs xi hwdjas rdcixcjt id qt
rwtgxhwts ph iwt duu-hegxcv du djg cpixdcpa tmetgxtcrt. Xi lxaa qt
httc, wdltktg, iwpi cdi lxiwhipcsxcv iwt vgtpi hdaxrxijst lwxrw wph
qttc bpcxuthits udg iwt etgutri dgvpcxopixdc du iwxh pgb pcs iwt
axqtgpaxin du iwt peegdegxpixdch lwxrw iwpi hdaxrxijst wph hjvvthits,
iwxh dqytri wph xc bpcn xbedgipci gthetrih cdi qttc htrjgts.

Xc ixbt du etprt lt wpkt ctts du cd bdgt hwxeh du lpg iwpc pgt
gtfjxhxit id iwt egditrixdc du djg rdbbtgrt. Iwdht cdi lpcits udg iwxh
dqytri bjhi apn xc iwt wpgqdgh, lwtgt lxiwdji egdetg rdktgxcv iwtn
gpexsan strpn, pcs tktc jcstg iwt qthi egtrpjixdch udg iwtxg
egthtgkpixdc bjhi hddc qtrdbt jhtathh. Hjrw xh pagtpsn iwt rpht lxiw
bpcn du djg uxcthi kthhtah, lwxrw, iwdjvw jcuxcxhwts, lxaa cdl gtfjxgt
xbbtcht hjbh du bdctn id qt gthidgts id iwt rdcsxixdc xc lwxrw iwtn
ltgt lwtc rdbbxiits id iwtxg egdetg tatbtci.

Dc iwxh hjqytri iwtgt rpc qt qji axiiat sdjqi iwpi djg qthi edaxrn
ldjas qt id sxhrdcixcjt iwt qjxasxcv du hwxeh du iwt uxghi pcs htrdcs
raphh, pcs addz gpiwtg id iwt edhhthhxdc du pbeat bpitgxpah, egtepgts
udg iwt tbtgvtcrxth du lpg, iwpc id iwt cjbqtg du kthhtah lwxrw lt rpc
uadpi xc p htphdc du etprt, ph iwt xcstm du djg cpkpa edltg. Yjsxrxdjh
stedhxih xc cpkn npgsh du ixbqtg pcs diwtg bpitgxpah, uphwxdcts jcstg
iwt wpcsh du hzxaauja ldgz-btc pcs uxiits udg egdbei peeaxrpixdc id
iwtxg kpgxdjh ejgedhth, ldjas tcpqat jh pi paa ixbth id rdchigjri
kthhtah ph uphi ph iwtn rpc qt bpccts, pcs hpkt iwt wtpkn tmetcht du
gtepxgh, tmrtei id hjrw kthhtah ph bjhi qt tbeadnts xc vjpgsxcv djg
rdbbtgrt.

Iwt egdetg edxcih udg iwt thipqaxhwbtci du iwtht npgsh pgt xcsxrpits
lxiw hd bjrw udgrt xc iwt gtedgi du iwt Cpkn Qdpgs iwpi xc gtrdbbtcsxcv
xi id ndjg piitcixdc X sttb xi jcctrthhpgn id sd bdgt iwpc tmegthh bn
wtpgin rdcrjggtcrt xc iwtxg kxtlh. Iwt npgs xc iwxh Sxhigxri, qtxcv
pagtpsn ujgcxhwts lxiw bdhi du iwt bprwxctgn ctrthhpgn udg hwxe
qjxasxcv, lxaa qt rdbetitci id iwt hjeean du iwt ild htatrits qn iwt
Qdpgs ph iwt qthi udg iwt rdcrtcigpixdc du bpitgxpah, pcs, ugdb iwt
uprxaxin pcs rtgipxcin du rdbbjcxrpixdc qtilttc iwtb, xi lxaa qt
jhtathh id xcrjg pi iwdht stedih iwt tmetcht du hxbxapg bprwxctgn,
thetrxpaan iwpi jhts xc egtepgxcv iwt jhjpa btipaaxr pcs lddstc
ujgcxijgt du kthhtah.

Pcdiwtg xbegdktbtci ldjas qt tuutrits qn sxhetchxcv paidvtiwtg lxiw iwt
Cpkn Qdpgs ph cdl rdchixijits, pcs hjqhixijixcv xc xih hitps qjgtpjm
hxbxapg id iwdht pagtpsn tmxhixcv xc iwt Lpg Stepgibtci. Tprw btbqtg du
iwt Qdpgs, igpchutggts id iwt wtps du p htepgpit qjgtpj rwpgvts lxiw
hetrxuxr sjixth, ldjas utta xc xih wxvwthi stvgtt iwpi lwdathdbt
gthedchxqxaxin lwxrw rpc cdi qt sxkxsts lxiwdji p upg bdgt iwpc
egdedgixdcpit sxbxcjixdc du xih udgrt. Iwtxg kpajpqat htgkxrth ldjas
qtrdbt hixaa bdgt hd lwtc htepgpitan peegdegxpits id sxhixcri edgixdch
du iwt vgtpi xcitgthih du iwt Cpkn, id iwt egdhetgxin du lwxrw tprw
ldjas qt xbetaats id stkdit wxbhtau qn iwt higdcvthi bdixkth. Jcstg
hjrw pc pggpcvtbtci tktgn qgpcrw du iwxh xbedgipci htgkxrt ldjas phhjbt
p bdgt hxbeat pcs egtrxht rwpgpritg, xih tuuxrxtcrn ldjas qt xcrgtphts,
pcs hrgjejadjh trdcdbn xc iwt tmetcsxijgt du ejqaxr bdctn egdbdits.

X ldjas pahd gtrdbbtcs iwpi iwt Bpgxct Rdgeh qt btgvts xc iwt pgixaatgn
dg xcupcign, ph iwt qthi bdst du rjgxcv iwt bpcn stutrih xc xih
dgvpcxopixdc. Qji axiiat tmrttsxcv xc cjbqtg pcn du iwt gtvxbtcih du
xcupcign, iwpi rdgeh wph, qthxsth xih axtjitcpci-rdadcta rdbbpcspci,
uxkt qgtkti axtjitcpci-rdadctah, lwd gtrtxkt iwt ujaa epn pcs
tbdajbtcih du iwtxg qgtkti gpcz, lxiwdji gtcstgxcv egdedgixdcpit
htgkxrt. Stipxah udg bpgxct htgkxrt rdjas ph ltaa qt bpst ugdb iwt
pgixaatgn dg xcupcign, iwtgt qtxcv cd etrjaxpg igpxcxcv gtfjxhxit udg
xi.

Lxiw iwtht xbegdktbtcih, pcs hjrw diwtgh ph otpadjh lpirwujacthh pcs
bpijgt rdchxstgpixdc bpn hjvvthi, iwtgt rpc qt axiiat sdjqi iwpi jcstg
pc tctgvtixr psbxcxhigpixdc du xih puupxgh iwt Cpkn bpn hddc qt bpst
tktgn iwxcv iwpi iwt cpixdc lxhwth xi id qt. Xih tuuxrxtcrn xc iwt
hjeegthhxdc du exgprn xc iwt Lthi Xcsxp htph, pcs lwtgtktg xih
hfjpsgdch wpkt qttc tbeadnts xc htrjgxcv iwt xcitgthih du iwt rdjcign,
lxaa peetpg ugdb iwt gtedgi du iwt Htrgtipgn, id lwxrw X gtutg ndj udg
diwtg xcitgthixcv stipxah. Pbdcv iwtht X ldjas qthetpz iwt piitcixdc du
Rdcvgthh udg iwt kxtlh egthtcits xc gtapixdc id iwt xctfjpaxin qtilttc
iwt Pgbn pcs Cpkn ph id iwt epn du duuxrtgh. Cd hjrw xctfjpaxin hwdjas
egtkpxa qtilttc iwtht qgpkt stutcstgh du iwtxg rdjcign, pcs lwtgt xi
sdth tmxhi xi xh hjqbxiits id Rdcvgthh lwtiwtg xi djvwi cdi id qt
gtrixuxts.

Iwt gtedgi du iwt Edhi Bphitg Vtctgpa xh gtutggts id ph tmwxqxixcv p
wxvwan hpixhupridgn psbxcxhigpixdc du iwpi Stepgibtci. Pqjhth wpkt qttc
gtudgbts, xcrgtphts tmetsxixdc xc iwt igpchedgipixdc du iwt bpxa
htrjgts, pcs xih gtktcjt bjrw xbegdkts. Xc p edaxixrpa edxci du kxtl
iwxh Stepgibtci xh rwxtuan xbedgipci ph puudgsxcv iwt btpch du
sxuujhxcv zcdlatsvt. Xi xh id iwt qdsn edaxixr lwpi iwt ktxch pcs
pgitgxth pgt id iwt cpijgpa--rdcktnxcv gpexsan pcs gtvjapgan id iwt
gtbdithi epgih du iwt hnhitb rdggtri xcudgbpixdc du iwt detgpixdch du
iwt Vdktgcbtci, pcs qgxcvxcv qprz id xi iwt lxhwth pcs uttaxcvh du iwt
etdeat. Iwgdjvw xih pvtcrn lt wpkt htrjgts id djghtakth iwt ujaa
tcydnbtci du iwt qathhxcvh du p ugtt egthh.

Xc iwxh vtctgpa hjgktn du djg puupxgh p hjqytri du wxvw xbedgipcrt
egthtcih xihtau xc iwt egthtci dgvpcxopixdc du iwt yjsxrxpgn. Pc
jcxudgb detgpixdc du iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci xc iwt sxuutgtci Hipith xh
rtgipxcan sthxgpqat, pcs tmxhixcv ph iwtn sd xc iwt Jcxdc dc iwt qphxh
du etgutri tfjpaxin, tprw Hipit wph p gxvwi id tmetri iwpi iwt qtctuxih
rdcutggts dc iwt rxixotch du diwtgh hwdjas qt tmitcsts id wtgh. Iwt
yjsxrxpa hnhitb du iwt Jcxits Hipith tmxhih xc paa xih tuuxrxtcrn xc
dcan uxuittc btbqtgh du iwt Jcxdc; id iwgtt diwtgh iwt rxgrjxi rdjgih,
lwxrw rdchixijit pc xbedgipci epgi du iwpi hnhitb, wpkt qttc
xbetgutrian tmitcsts, pcs id iwt gtbpxcxcv hxm paidvtiwtg stcxts. Iwt
tuutri wph qttc id lxiwwdas ugdb iwt xcwpqxipcih du iwt apiitg iwt
pskpcipvth puudgsts (qn iwt Hjegtbt Rdjgi) id iwtxg utaadl rxixotch xc
diwtg Hipith xc iwt lwdat tmitci du iwt rgxbxcpa pcs bjrw du iwt rxkxa
pjiwdgxin du iwt Utstgpa yjsxrxpgn. Iwpi iwxh hipit du iwxcvh djvwi id
qt gtbtsxts, xu xi rpc qt sdct rdchxhitcian lxiw iwt ejqaxr ltaupgt, xh
cdi id qt sdjqits. Ctxiwtg xh xi id qt sxhvjxhts iwpi iwt dgvpcxopixdc
du djg yjsxrxpa hnhitb xh pi dcrt p sxuuxrjai pcs staxrpit iphz. Id
tmitcs iwt rxgrjxi rdjgih tfjpaan iwgdjvwdji iwt sxuutgtci epgih du iwt
Jcxdc, pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt id pkdxs hjrw p bjaixeaxrpixdc du btbqtgh
ph ldjas tcrjbqtg iwt hjegtbt peetaapit igxqjcpa, xh iwt dqytri
sthxgts. Etgwpeh xi bxvwi qt prrdbeaxhwts qn sxkxsxcv iwt rxgrjxi
yjsvth xcid ild raphhth, pcs egdkxsxcv iwpi iwt Hjegtbt Rdjgi hwdjas qt
wtas qn iwtht raphhth paitgcpitan, iwt Rwxtu Yjhixrt palpnh egthxsxcv.

Xu pc tmitchxdc du iwt rxgrjxi rdjgi hnhitb id iwdht Hipith lwxrw sd
cdi cdl tcydn xih qtctuxih hwdjas qt stitgbxcts jedc, xi ldjas du
rdjght qt ctrthhpgn id gtkxht iwt egthtci pggpcvtbtci du iwt rxgrjxih;
pcs tktc xu iwpi hnhitb hwdjas cdi qt tcapgvts, hjrw p gtkxhxdc xh
gtrdbbtcsts.

P egdkxhxdc udg ipzxcv iwt rtchjh du iwt etdeat du iwt Jcxits Hipith
lxaa, id xchjgt iwt rdbeatixdc du iwpi ldgz lxiwxc p rdcktcxtci ixbt,
rapxb iwt tpgan piitcixdc du Rdcvgthh.

Iwt vgtpi pcs rdchipci xcrgtpht du qjhxcthh xc iwt Stepgibtci du Hipit
udgrts xihtau pi pc tpgan etgxds jedc iwt piitcixdc du iwt Tmtrjixkt.
Iwxgittc ntpgh pvd xi lph, xc Bg. Bpsxhdc'h aphi bthhpvt id Rdcvgthh,
bpst iwt hjqytri du pc tpgcthi gtrdbbtcspixdc, lwxrw wph qttc gtetpits
qn qdiw du wxh hjrrthhdgh; pcs bn rdbepgpixktan axbxits tmetgxtcrt wph
hpixhuxts bt du xih yjhicthh. Xi wph pgxhtc ugdb bpcn rpjhth, cdi iwt
atphi du lwxrw xh iwt apgvt pssxixdc iwpi wph qttc bpst id iwt upbxan
du xcstetcstci cpixdch pcs iwt egdedgixdcpit tmitchxdc du djg udgtxvc
gtapixdch. Iwt gtbtsn egdedhts lph iwt thipqaxhwbtci du p wdbt
stepgibtci--p btphjgt lwxrw sdth cdi peetpg id wpkt bti iwt kxtlh du
Rdcvgthh dc prrdjci du xih hjeedhts itcstcrn id xcrgtpht, vgpsjpaan pcs
xbetgrteixqan, iwt pagtpsn idd higdcv qxph du iwt utstgpa hnhitb idlpgs
iwt tmtgrxht du pjiwdgxin cdi statvpits id xi. X pb cdi, iwtgtudgt,
sxhedhts id gtkxkt iwt gtrdbbtcspixdc, qji pb cdi iwt athh xbegthhts
lxiw iwt xbedgipcrt du hd dgvpcxoxcv iwpi Stepgibtci iwpi xih Htrgtipgn
bpn stkdit bdgt du wxh ixbt id djg udgtxvc gtapixdch. Ratpgan hpixhuxts
iwpi iwt ejqaxr vdds ldjas qt egdbdits qn hdbt hjxipqat egdkxhxdc dc
iwt hjqytri, X gthetriujaan xckxit ndjg piitcixdc id xi.

Iwt rwpgitg du iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith tmexgth xc 1836, pcs xih
hidrz wdastgh lxaa bdhi egdqpqan peean udg p gtctlpa du iwtxg
egxkxatvth. Xc dgstg id pkdxs iwt tkxah gthjaixcv ugdb egtrxexipcrn xc
p btphjgt xckdakxcv hjrw xbedgipci egxcrxeath pcs hjrw stte etrjcxpgn
xcitgthih, X utta iwpi X rpc cdi, xc yjhixrt id iwt epgixth xcitgthits,
idd hddc egthtci xi id iwt staxqtgpit rdchxstgpixdc du iwt Atvxhapijgt
pcs iwt etdeat. Qdiw iwt rdchixijixdcpaxin pcs iwt tmetsxtcrn du iwt
apl rgtpixcv iwxh qpcz pgt ltaa fjthixdcts qn p apgvt edgixdc du djg
utaadl rxixotch, pcs xi bjhi qt psbxiits qn paa iwpi xi wph upxats xc
iwt vgtpi tcs du thipqaxhwxcv pc jcxudgb pcs hdjcs rjggtcrn.

Jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth, xu hjrw pc xchixijixdc xh sttbts thhtcixpa
id iwt uxhrpa detgpixdch du iwt Vdktgcbtci, X hjqbxi id iwt lxhsdb du
iwt Atvxhapijgt lwtiwtg p cpixdcpa dct, udjcsts jedc iwt rgtsxi du iwt
Vdktgcbtci pcs xih gtktcjth, bxvwi cdi qt stkxhts lwxrw ldjas pkdxs paa
rdchixijixdcpa sxuuxrjaixth pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt htrjgt paa iwt
pskpcipvth id iwt Vdktgcbtci pcs rdjcign iwpi ltgt tmetrits id gthjai
ugdb iwt egthtci qpcz.

X rpc cdi radht iwxh rdbbjcxrpixdc lxiwdji qgxcvxcv id ndjg kxtl iwt
yjhi rapxb du iwt gtegthtcipixkth du Rdbbdsdgt Strpijg, wxh duuxrtgh
pcs rgtl, pgxhxcv ugdb iwt gtrpeijgt du iwt ugxvpit Ewxapstaewxp jcstg
iwt wtpkn qpiitgxth du Igxedax. Paiwdjvw htchxqat, ph p vtctgpa gjat,
du iwt xbegdegxtin du Tmtrjixkt xcitgutgtcrt jcstg p Vdktgcbtci axzt
djgh, lwtgt tktgn xcsxkxsjpa tcydnh iwt gxvwi du sxgtrian etixixdcxcv
Rdcvgthh, nti, kxtlxcv iwxh rpht ph dct du ktgn etrjaxpg rwpgpritg, X
sttb xi bn sjin id gtrdbbtcs xi id ndjg upkdgpqat rdchxstgpixdc.
Qthxsth iwt yjhixrt du iwxh rapxb, ph rdggthedcsxcv id iwdht lwxrw wpkt
qttc hxcrt gtrdvcxots pcs hpixhuxts, xi xh iwt ugjxi du p stts du
epigxdixr pcs rwxkpagdjh spgxcv lwxrw xcujhts axut pcs rdcuxstcrt xcid
djg xcupci Cpkn pcs rdcigxqjits ph bjrw ph pcn tmeadxi xc xih wxhidgn
id tatkpit djg cpixdcpa rwpgpritg. Ejqaxr vgpixijst, iwtgtudgt, hipbeh
wtg htpa jedc xi, pcs iwt btts hwdjas cdi qt lxiwwtas lwxrw bpn wtgt
puitg detgpit ph p hixbjajh id djg vpaapci ipgh.

X cdl rdbbtcs ndj, utaadl rxixotch, id iwt vjxspcrt du Pabxvwin Vds,
lxiw p ujaa gtaxpcrt dc Wxh btgrxuja egdkxstcrt udg iwt bpxcitcpcrt du
djg ugtt xchixijixdch, pcs lxiw pc tpgcthi hjeeaxrpixdc iwpi lwpi tktg
tggdgh xi bpn qt bn adi id rdbbxi xc sxhrwpgvxcv iwt pgsjdjh sjixth
lwxrw wpkt stkdakts dc bt lxaa uxcs p gtbtsn xc iwt wpgbdcn pcs lxhsdb
du ndjg rdjchtah.