Onuuxf Lrcrinwb xo cqn Bnwjcn jwm xo cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Rw cqn mrblqjapn xo vh xoorlrju mdch cqn jpjrw mnexuenb dyxw vn xo
lxvvdwrljcrwp frcq j wnf Lxwpanbb. Cqn anounlcrxw cqjc cqn
anyanbnwcjcrxw xo cqn Dwrxw qjb knnw anlnwcuh anwnfnm, jwm cqjc cqn
lxwbcrcdcrxwju cnav xo rcb bnaerln fruu ngyran frcq vh xfw, qnrpqcnwb
cqn bxurlrcdmn frcq fqrlq R bqjuu jccnvyc cx ujh knoxan rc cqn bcjcn xo
xda wjcrxwju lxwlnawb jwm cqn mnexdc qxyn fqrlq R lqnarbq cqjc rcb
ujkxab cx rvyaxen cqnv vjh kn laxfwnm frcq bdllnbb.

Hxd jan jbbnvkunm jc j ynarxm xo yaxoxdwm rwcnanbc cx cqn Jvnarljw
yjcarxc. Cqn dwngjvyunm paxfcq jwm yaxbynarch xo xda lxdwcah qjerwp
prenw db j ajwt rw cqn bljun xo wjcrxwb fqrlq anvxenb juu jyyanqnwbrxw
xo mjwpna cx xda rwcnparch jwm rwmnynwmnwln oaxv ngcnawju oxnb, cqn
ljanna xo oannmxv rb knoxan db, frcq jw njawnbc oaxv cqn yjbc cqjc ro
cadn cx xdabnuenb cqnan ljw kn wx oxavrmjkun xkbcjlun rw cqn odcdan cx
rcb ynjlnodu jwm dwrwcnaadycnm ydabdrc. Hnc, rw yaxyxacrxw cx cqn
mrbjyynjajwln xo cqxbn jyyanqnwbrxwb fqrlq jccnwmnm xda fnjtwnbb, jb
xwln lxwcajbcnm frcq cqn yxfna xo bxvn xo cqn Bcjcnb xo cqn Xum Fxaum,
bqxdum fn wxf kn bxurlrcxdb jb cx cqxbn fqrlq knuxwp cx cqn lxwerlcrxw
cqjc rc rb cx xda xfw lxwmdlc fn vdbc uxxt oxa cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo
cqxbn ljdbnb xw fqrlq mnynwm cqn nglnuunwln jwm cqn mdajcrxw xo xda
qjyyh bhbcnv xo pxenawvnwc.

Rw cqn ngjvyun xo xcqna bhbcnvb oxdwmnm xw cqn fruu xo cqn ynxyun fn
cajln cx rwcnawju mrbbnwbrxw cqn rwoudnwlnb fqrlq qjen bx xocnw kujbcnm
cqn qxynb xo cqn oarnwmb xo oannmxv. Cqn bxlrju nunvnwcb, fqrlq fnan
bcaxwp jwm bdllnbbodu fqnw dwrcnm jpjrwbc ngcnawju mjwpna, ojrunm rw
cqn vxan mroorlduc cjbt xo yaxynauh jmsdbcrwp cqnra xfw rwcnawju
xapjwrijcrxw, jwm cqdb pjen fjh cqn panjc yarwlryun xo bnuo-pxenawvnwc.
Unc db cadbc cqjc cqrb jmvxwrcrxw fruu wnena kn oxapxccnw kh cqn
Pxenawvnwc xa cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm cqjc cqn cnbcrvxwh
fqrlq xda ngynarnwln cqdb oja qxumb xdc cx cqn panjc qdvjw ojvruh xo
cqn yajlcrljkrurch jwm cqn kunbbrwpb xo oann pxenawvnwc fruu kn
lxworavnm rw juu crvn cx lxvn.

Fn qjen kdc cx uxxt jc cqn bcjcn xo xda jparlducdan, vjwdojlcdanb, jwm
lxvvnaln jwm cqn dwngjvyunm rwlanjbn xo xda yxydujcrxw cx onnu cqn
vjpwrcdmn xo cqn cadbc lxvvrccnm cx db. Wnena rw jwh oxavna ynarxm xo
xda qrbcxah qjen fn qjm panjcna anjbxw cqjw fn wxf qjen cx kn cqjwtodu
cx Mrerwn Yaxermnwln oxa cqn kunbbrwpb xo qnjucq jwm pnwnaju
yaxbynarch. Nenah kajwlq xo ujkxa fn bnn laxfwnm frcq cqn vxbc jkdwmjwc
anfjamb. Rw nenah nunvnwc xo wjcrxwju anbxdalnb jwm fnjucq jwm xo
rwmrermdju lxvoxac fn frcwnbb cqn vxbc ajyrm jwm bxurm rvyaxenvnwcb.
Frcq wx rwcnaadycrxwb cx cqrb yunjbrwp yaxbynlc jc qxvn fqrlq fruu wxc
hrnum cx cqn byrarc xo qjavxwh jwm pxxm fruu cqjc bx bcartrwpuh
ynaejmnb cqn vjbb xo cqn ynxyun rw nenah zdjacna, jvrmbc juu cqn
mrenabrch xo rwcnanbc jwm ydabdrcb cx fqrlq cqnh jan jccjlqnm, jwm frcq
wx ljdbn xo bxurlrcdmn rw anpjam cx xda ngcnawju joojrab fqrlq fruu
wxc, rc rb qxynm, mrbjyynja knoxan cqn yarwlryunb xo brvyun sdbcrln jwm
cqn oxaknjajwln cqjc vjat xda rwcnalxdabn frcq oxanrpw yxfnab, fn qjen
nenah anjbxw cx onnu yaxdm xo xda knuxenm lxdwcah.

Cqn pnwnaju bcjcn xo xda oxanrpw anujcrxwb qjb wxc vjcnarjuuh lqjwpnm
brwln vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn.

Rw cqn bnccunvnwc xo cqn zdnbcrxw xo cqn Wxacq Njbcnaw kxdwmjah urccun
yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn. Panjc Karcjrw qjb mnlurwnm jllnmrwp cx cqn
yaxyxbrcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, yanbnwcnm rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn
anbxudcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn, dwunbb lnacjrw yanurvrwjah lxwmrcrxwb fnan
jmvrccnm, fqrlq R mnnvnm rwlxvyjcrkun frcq j bjcrbojlcxah jwm arpqcodu
jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn lxwcaxenabh. Fjrcrwp oxa bxvn mrbcrwlc yaxyxbju oaxv
cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Panjc Karcjrw, fqrlq qjb knnw rwercnm, R ljw xwuh
anynjc cqn ngyanbbrxw xo vh lxwormnwln cqjc, frcq cqn bcaxwp vdcdju
mrbyxbrcrxw fqrlq R knurnen ngrbcb cx vjtn j sdbc jaajwpnvnwc, cqrb
ynayungrwp zdnbcrxw ljw kn bnccunm frcq j mdn anpjam cx cqn
fnuu-oxdwmnm yancnwbrxwb jwm yjlrorl yxurlh xo juu cqn yjacrnb cx rc.
Nenwcb jan oanzdnwcuh xlldaarwp xw cqn Wxacq Njbcnaw oaxwcrna xo j
lqjajlcna cx rvyanbb dyxw juu cqn wnlnbbrch xo j bynnmh jwm mnorwrcren
cnavrwjcrxw xo cqn mrbydcn. Cqrb lxwbrmnajcrxw, jmmnm cx cqn mnbran
lxvvxw cx kxcq cx anurnen cqn urknaju jwm oarnwmuh anujcrxwb bx qjyyruh
ngrbcrwp kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb oaxv juu nvkjaajbbvnwc, fruu wx
mxdkc qjen rcb sdbc rwoudnwln dyxw kxcq.

Xda mryuxvjcrl rwcnalxdabn frcq Yxacdpju qjb knnw anwnfnm, jwm rc rb
ngynlcnm cqjc cqn lujrvb xo xda lrcrinwb, yjacrjuuh yjrm, fruu kn oduuh
bjcrbornm jb bxxw jb cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Zdnnw'b Pxenawvnwc fruu
ynavrc cqn yaxyna jccnwcrxw cx cqn bdksnlc xo cqnv. Cqjc Pxenawvnwc
qjb, R jv qjyyh cx rwoxav hxd, vjwronbcnm j mncnavrwjcrxw cx jlc dyxw
cqn urknaju yarwlryunb fqrlq qjen vjatnm xda lxvvnalrju yxurlh. Cqn
qjyyrnbc noonlcb dyxw cqn odcdan cajmn kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
Yxacdpju jan jwcrlryjcnm oaxv rc, jwm cqn crvn rb wxc cqxdpqc cx kn
anvxcn fqnw j bhbcnv xo ynaonlc anlryaxlrch fruu kn nbcjkurbqnm.

Cqn rwbcjuuvnwcb mdn dwmna cqn lxwenwcrxw frcq cqn Trwp xo cqn Cfx
Brlrurnb qjen knnw yjrm frcq cqjc bladyduxdb ormnurch kh fqrlq qrb
fqxun lxwmdlc qjb knnw lqjajlcnarinm, jwm cqn qxyn rb rwmdupnm cqjc cqn
jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn engnm zdnbcrxw xo xda lujrvb fruu kn oxuuxfnm kh j
vxan ngcnwmnm jwm vdcdjuuh knwnorlrju rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw cqn cfx
lxdwcarnb.

Cqn rwcnawju lxwcnbc bcruu lxwcrwdnb rw Byjrw. Mrbcrwpdrbqnm jb cqrb
bcadppun qjb dwqjyyruh knnw kh rwlrmnwcb xo cqn vxbc bjwpdrwjah
lqjajlcna, cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo cqn ujcn canjch xo rwmnvwrorljcrxw frcq
db qjen knnw, wnena cqn unbb, ojrcqoduuh ngnldcnm kh cqn Byjwrbq
Pxenawvnwc.

Wx yaxerbrxw qjerwp knnw vjmn jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb oxa cqn
jblnacjrwvnwc xo cqn lujrvb cx kn yjrm jwm cqn jyyxacrxwvnwc xo cqn
odwmb dwmna cqn lxwenwcrxw vjmn frcq Byjrw, R rwercn hxda njauh
jccnwcrxw cx cqn bdksnlc. Cqn ydkurl nermnwlnb xo cqn mnkc qjen,
jllxamrwp cx cqn cnavb xo cqn lxwenwcrxw jwm rw cqn oxavb yanblarknm kh
rc, knnw yujlnm rw cqn yxbbnbbrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm cqn
rwcnanbc jb rc onuu mdn qjb knnw anpdujauh yjrm dyxw cqnv. Xda
lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn frcq Ldkj bcjwmb jb anpdujcnm kh cqn jlc xo
Lxwpanbb. Wx anlnwc rwoxavjcrxw qjb knnw anlnrenm jb cx cqn mrbyxbrcrxw
xo cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Vjmarm, jwm cqn ujvnwcnm mnjcq xo xda anlnwcuh
jyyxrwcnm vrwrbcna xw qrb fjh cx Byjrw, frcq cqn yanbbdan xo cqnra
joojrab jc qxvn, anwmnab rc bljalnuh yaxkjkun cqjc jwh lqjwpn rb cx kn
uxxtnm oxa mdarwp cqn lxvrwp hnja.

Odacqna yxacrxwb xo cqn Ouxarmj jalqrenb qjen knnw bnwc cx cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb, jucqxdpq cqn mnjcq xo xwn xo cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab jc j larcrlju
vxvnwc nvkjaajbbnm cqn yaxpanbb xo cqn mnurenah xo cqnv. Cqn qrpqna
xoorlnab xo cqn uxlju pxenawvnwc qjen anlnwcuh bqxfw jw jwgrxdb mnbran,
rw lxvyurjwln frcq cqn xamnab oaxv cqn yjanwc Pxenawvnwc, cx ojlrurcjcn
cqn bnunlcrxw jwm mnurenah xo juu fn qjen j arpqc cx lujrv.

Wnpxcrjcrxwb qjen knnw xynwnm jc Vjmarm oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j
ujbcrwp ynjln kncfnnw Byjrw jwm bdlq xo cqn Byjwrbq Jvnarljw
Pxenawvnwcb xo cqrb qnvrbyqnan jb qjen jejrunm cqnvbnuenb xo cqn
rwcrvjcrxw prenw cx juu xo cqnv xo cqn mrbyxbrcrxw xo Byjrw cx canjc
dyxw cqn kjbrb xo cqnra nwcran rwmnynwmnwln. Rc rb cx kn anpanccnm cqjc
brvducjwnxdb jyyxrwcvnwcb kh juu xo vrwrbcnab cx wnpxcrjcn frcq Byjrw
qjm wxc knnw vjmn. Cqn wnpxcrjcrxw rcbnuo fxdum qjen knnw brvyurornm,
jwm cqrb uxwp-bcjwmrwp mrbydcn, byanjmrwp xena j ujapn yxacrxw xo cqn
fxaum, fxdum qjen knnw kaxdpqc cx j vxan bynnmh lxwludbrxw.

Xda yxurcrlju jwm lxvvnalrju anujcrxwb frcq Jdbcarj, Yadbbrj, Bfnmnw,
jwm Mnwvjat bcjwm xw cqn dbdju ojexajkun kjbnb. Xwn xo cqn jacrlunb xo
xda canjch frcq Adbbrj rw anujcrxw cx cqn cajmn xw cqn Wxacq-Fnbc lxjbc
xo Jvnarlj qjerwp ngyranm, rwbcadlcrxwb qjen knnw prenw cx xda vrwrbcna
jc Bc. Yncnabkdap cx wnpxcrjcn j anwnfju xo rc. Cqn uxwp jwm dwkaxtnw
jvrch kncfnnw cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb prenb nenah anjbxw oxa bdyyxbrwp cqn
jacrlun fruu kn anwnfnm, ro bcaxwpna vxcrenb mx wxc ngrbc cx yanenwc rc
cqjw frcq xda ernf xo cqn bdksnlc ljw kn jwcrlryjcnm qnan. R jbt hxda
jccnwcrxw cx cqn vnbbjpn xo vh yanmnlnbbxa jc cqn xynwrwp xo cqn bnlxwm
bnbbrxw xo cqn 19cq Lxwpanbb, anujcren cx xda lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn
frcq Qxuujwm, jwm cx cqn mxldvnwcb lxwwnlcnm frcq cqjc bdksnlc,
lxvvdwrljcnm cx cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb xw cqn 10cq xo Sjwdjah,
1825, jwm 18cq xo Sjwdjah, 1827.

Lxrwlrmrwp rw cqn xyrwrxw xo vh yanmnlnbbxa cqjc Qxuujwm rb wxc, dwmna
cqn anpdujcrxwb xo qna yanbnwc bhbcnv, nwcrcunm cx qjen qna enbbnub jwm
cqnra ljapxnb anlnrenm rwcx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xw cqn oxxcrwp xo
Jvnarljw enbbnub jwm ljapxnb jb anpjamb mdcrnb xo cxwwjpn jwm rvyxbc, j
anbynlc oxa qrb anonanwln xo rc cx cqn Unprbujcdan qjb juxwn yanenwcnm
vn oaxv jlcrwp xw cqn bdksnlc. R bqxdum bcruu qjen fjrcnm frcqxdc
lxvvnwc oxa cqn jlcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, kdc anlnwcuh j lujrv qjb knnw vjmn
kh Knuprjw bdksnlcb cx jmvrbbrxw rwcx xda yxacb oxa cqnra bqryb jwm
ljapxnb xw cqn bjvn oxxcrwp jb Jvnarljw, frcq cqn juunpjcrxw fn lxdum
wxc mrbydcn cqjc xda enbbnub anlnrenm rw cqnra yxacb cqn rmnwcrlju
canjcvnwc bqnfw cx cqnv rw cqn yxacb xo Qxuujwm, dyxw fqxbn enbbnub wx
mrblarvrwjcrxw rb vjmn rw cqn yxacb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Prenw cqn bjvn yarerunpnb cqn Knuprjwb ngynlcnm cqn bjvn knwnorcb--
knwnorcb cqjc fnan, rw ojlc, nwsxhnm fqnw Knuprdv jwm Qxuujwm fnan
dwrcnm dwmna xwn Pxenawvnwc. Bjcrbornm frcq cqn sdbcrln xo cqnra
yancnwbrxw cx kn yujlnm xw cqn bjvn oxxcrwp frcq Qxuujwm, R lxdum wxc,
wnena cqn unbb, frcqxdc mrbanpjam cx cqn yarwlryun xo xda ujfb, jmvrc
cqnra lujrv cx kn canjcnm jb Jvnarljwb, jwm jc cqn bjvn crvn j anbynlc
oxa Lxwpanbb, cx fqxv cqn bdksnlc qjm uxwp brwln knnw anonaanm, qjb
yanenwcnm vn oaxv yaxmdlrwp j sdbc nzdjurch kh cjtrwp oaxv cqn enbbnub
xo Qxuujwm yarerunpnb lxwmrcrxwjuuh pajwcnm kh jlcb xo Lxwpanbb,
jucqxdpq cqn lxwmrcrxw dyxw fqrlq cqn pajwc fjb vjmn qjb, rw vh
sdmpvnwc, ojrunm brwln 1822. R anlxvvnwm, cqnanoxan, j anernf xo cqn
jlc xo 1824, jwm bdlq vxmrorljcrxw xo rc jb fruu yaxmdln jw nzdjurch xw
bdlq cnavb jb Lxwpanbb bqjuu cqrwt knbc lxvyxacb frcq xda bnccunm
yxurlh jwm cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo sdbcrln cx cfx oarnwmuh yxfnab.

Frcq cqn Bdkurvn Yxacn jwm juu cqn Pxenawvnwcb xw cqn lxjbc xo Kjakjah
xda anujcrxwb lxwcrwdn cx kn oarnwmuh. Cqn yaxyna bcnyb qjen knnw cjtnw
cx anwnf xda canjch frcq Vxaxllx.

Cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl qjb jpjrw yaxvrbnm cx bnwm frcqrw cqn ldaanwc
hnja j vrwrbcna cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

J lxwenwcrxw frcq Vngrlx oxa ngcnwmrwp cqn crvn oxa cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo
lxvvrbbrxwnab cx adw cqn kxdwmjah urwn qjb knnw lxwludmnm jwm fruu kn
bdkvrccnm cx cqn Bnwjcn. Anlnwc nenwcb rw cqjc lxdwcah qjen jfjtnwnm
cqn urenurnbc bxurlrcdmn rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Jfjan xo cqn bcaxwp
cnvycjcrxwb ngrbcrwp jwm yxfnaodu rwmdlnvnwcb qnum xdc cx cqn lrcrinwb
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx vrwpun rw cqn mrbbnwbrxwb xo xda rvvnmrjcn
wnrpqkxab, rwbcadlcrxwb qjen knnw prenw cx cqn mrbcarlc jccxawnhb xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fqnan rwmrljcrxwb fjaajwcnm rc cx yaxbnldcn frcqxdc
anbynlc cx ynabxwb juu fqx vrpqc jccnvyc cx erxujcn cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo
xda wndcajurch, fqrun jc cqn bjvn crvn rc qjb knnw cqxdpqc wnlnbbjah cx
jyyarbn cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Vngrlx cqjc fn bqxdum anzdran cqn rwcnparch
xo xda cnaarcxah cx kn bladyduxdbuh anbynlcnm kh kxcq yjacrnb.

Oaxv xda mryuxvjcrl jpnwcb rw Kajiru, Lqrun, Ynad, Lnwcaju Jvnarlj,
Enwnidnuj, jwm Wnf Pajwjmj lxwbcjwc jbbdajwlnb jan anlnrenm xo cqn
lxwcrwdnm pxxm dwmnabcjwmrwp frcq cqn Pxenawvnwcb cx fqrlq cqnh jan
bnenajuuh jllanmrcnm. Frcq cqxbn Pxenawvnwcb dyxw fqrlq xda lrcrinwb
qjen ejurm jwm jlldvdujcrwp lujrvb, bljalnuh jw jmejwln cxfjam j
bnccunvnwc xo cqnv rb vjmn, xfrwp vjrwuh cx cqnra mrbcajlcnm bcjcn xa
cx cqn yanbbdan xo rvynajcren mxvnbcrl zdnbcrxwb. Xda yjcrnwln qjb knnw
jwm fruu yaxkjkuh kn bcruu odacqna bnenanuh carnm, kdc xda onuuxf
lrcrinwb fqxbn rwcnanbcb jan rwexuenm vjh lxwormn rw cqn mncnavrwjcrxw
xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx xkcjrw oxa cqnv nenwcdjuuh jvyun ancarkdcrxw.

Dwoxacdwjcnuh, vjwh xo cqn wjcrxwb xo cqrb qnvrbyqnan jan bcruu
bnuo-cxavnwcnm kh mxvnbcrl mrbbnwbrxwb. Anexudcrxw bdllnnmb anexudcrxw;
rwsdarnb jan lxvvrccnm dyxw oxanrpwnab nwpjpnm rw ujfodu ydabdrcb; vdlq
crvn nujybnb knoxan j pxenawvnwc bdoorlrnwcuh bcjkun rb nanlcnm cx
sdbcroh ngynlcjcrxw xo anmanbb; vrwrbcnab jan bnwc jwm anlnrenm, jwm
knoxan cqn mrbldbbrxwb xo yjbc rwsdarnb jan ojrauh knpdw oanbq caxdkunb
jarbn; kdc cxx oanzdnwcuh wnf rwsdarnb jan jmmnm cx cqn xum, cx kn
mrbldbbnm cxpncqna frcq cqn ngrbcrwp pxenawvnwc jocna rc qjb yaxenm rcb
jkrurch cx bdbcjrw cqn jbbjducb vjmn dyxw rc, xa frcq rcb bdllnbbxa ro
xenacqaxfw. Ro cqrb dwqjyyh lxwmrcrxw xo cqrwpb lxwcrwdnb vdlq uxwpna,
xcqna wjcrxwb fruu kn dwmna cqn yjrwodu wnlnbbrch xo mnlrmrwp fqncqna
sdbcrln cx cqnra bdoonarwp lrcrinwb mxnb wxc anzdran j yaxvyc anmanbb
xo rwsdarnb kh cqnra xfw yxfna, frcqxdc fjrcrwp oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc
xo j pxenawvnwc lxvyncnwc jwm nwmdarwp nwxdpq cx mrbldbb jwm cx vjtn
bjcrbojlcrxw oxa cqnv.

Brwln cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb cqn ejurmrch xo xda lujrvb dyxw
Oajwln, jb urzdrmjcnm kh cqn canjch xo 1831, qjb knnw jltwxfunmpnm kh
kxcq kajwlqnb xo qna unprbujcdan, jwm cqn vxwnh qjb knnw jyyaxyarjcnm
oxa cqnra mrblqjapn; kdc cqn yjhvnwc rb, R anpanc cx rwoxav hxd, bcruu
frcqqnum.

J karno anljyrcdujcrxw xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc rwlrmnwcb rw cqrb
yaxcajlcnm lxwcaxenabh fruu bqnf qxf dccnauh dwcnwjkun jan cqn paxdwmb
dyxw fqrlq cqrb lxdabn rb jccnvycnm cx kn sdbcrornm.

Xw nwcnarwp dyxw cqn mdcrnb xo vh bcjcrxw R oxdwm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jw
dwbdllnbbodu jyyurljwc cx cqn sdbcrln xo Oajwln oxa cqn bjcrbojlcrxw xo
lujrvb cqn ejurmrch xo fqrlq fjb wnena zdnbcrxwjkun, jwm qjb wxf knnw
vxbc bxunvwuh jmvrccnm kh Oajwln qnabnuo. Cqn jwcrzdrch xo cqnbn
lujrvb, cqnra qrpq sdbcrln, jwm cqn jppajejcrwp lraldvbcjwlnb xdc xo
fqrlq cqnh jaxbn jan cxx ojvrurja cx cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cx anzdran
mnblarycrxw. Rc rb bdoorlrnwc cx bjh cqjc oxa j ynarxm xo cnw hnjab jwm
dyfjam xda lxvvnaln fjb, frcq kdc urccun rwcnaadycrxw, cqn bdksnlc xo
lxwbcjwc jppanbbrxw xw cqn yjac xo Oajwln--jppanbbrxwb cqn xamrwjah
onjcdanb xo fqrlq fnan lxwmnvwjcrxwb xo enbbnub jwm ljapxnb dwmna
jakrcajah mnlannb, jmxycnm rw lxwcajenwcrxw jb fnuu xo cqn ujfb xo
wjcrxwb jb xo canjch bcrydujcrxwb, kdawrwpb xw cqn qrpq bnjb, jwm
bnridanb jwm lxworbljcrxwb dwmna bynlrju rvynarju anblarycb rw cqn
yxacb xo xcqna wjcrxwb xlldyrnm kh cqn javrnb xa dwmna cqn lxwcaxu xo
Oajwln. Bdlq rc rb wxf lxwlnmnm rb cqn lqjajlcna xo cqn faxwpb fn
bdoonanm--faxwpb rw vjwh ljbnb bx oujpajwc cqjc nenw cqnra jdcqxab
wnena mnwrnm xda arpqc cx anyjajcrxw. Xo cqn ngcnwc xo cqnbn rwsdarnb
bxvn lxwlnycrxw vjh kn oxavnm oaxv cqn ojlc cqjc jocna cqn kdawrwp xo j
ujapn jvxdwc jc bnj jwm cqn wnlnbbjah mncnarxajcrxw rw xcqna ljbnb kh
uxwp mncnwcrxw cqn Jvnarljw yaxynach bx bnrinm jwm bjlarorlnm jc oxalnm
bjunb, ngludmrwp fqjc fjb jmsdmpnm cx yarejcnnab knoxan xa frcqxdc
lxwmnvwjcrxw, kaxdpqc rwcx cqn Oanwlq canjbdah dyfjam xo 24,000,000
oajwlb, knbrmnb ujapn ldbcxv qxdbn mdcrnb.

Cqn bdksnlc qjm juanjmh knnw jw joojra xo 20 hnjab' dwrwcnaadycnm
wnpxcrjcrxw, nglnyc oxa j bqxac crvn fqnw Oajwln fjb xenafqnuvnm kh cqn
vrurcjah yxfna xo dwrcnm Ndaxyn. Mdarwp cqrb ynarxm, fqrubc xcqna
wjcrxwb fnan ngcxacrwp oaxv qna yjhvnwc xo cqnra lujrvb jc cqn yxrwc xo
cqn kjhxwnc, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rwcnavrccnm cqnra mnvjwm oxa sdbcrln xdc
xo anbynlc cx cqn xyyanbbnm lxwmrcrxw xo j pjuujwc ynxyun cx fqxv cqnh
onuc dwmna xkurpjcrxwb oxa oajcnawju jbbrbcjwln rw cqnra xfw mjhb xo
bdoonarwp jwm ynaru. Cqn kjm noonlcb xo cqnbn yaxcajlcnm jwm dwjejrurwp
mrbldbbrxwb, fnan xkerxdb, jwm cqn urwn xo mdch fjb cx vh vrwm nzdjuuh
bx.

Cqrb fjb nrcqna cx rwbrbc dyxw cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo xda lujrvb frcqrw j
anjbxwjkun ynarxm xa cx jkjwmxw cqnv jucxpncqna. R lxdum wxc mxdkc cqjc
kh cqrb lxdabn cqn rwcnanbcb jwm qxwxa xo kxcq lxdwcarnb fxdum kn knbc
lxwbducnm. Rwbcadlcrxwb fnan cqnanoxan prenw rw cqrb byrarc cx cqn
vrwrbcna fqx fjb bnwc xdc xwln vxan cx mnvjwm anyjajcrxw.

Dyxw cqn vnncrwp xo Lxwpanbb rw Mnlnvkna, 1829, R onuc rc vh mdch cx
bynjt xo cqnbn lujrvb jwm cqn mnujhb xo Oajwln rw cnavb ljuldujcnm cx
ljuu cqn bnarxdb jccnwcrxw xo kxcq lxdwcarnb cx cqn bdksnlc. Cqn cqnw
Oanwlq vrwrbcah cxxt nglnycrxw cx cqn vnbbjpn xw cqn paxdwm xo rcb
lxwcjrwrwp j vnwjln, dwmna rc fjb wxc jpannjkun cx cqn Oanwlq
Pxenawvnwc cx wnpxcrjcn. Cqn Jvnarljw vrwrbcna xo qrb xfw jllxam
anodcnm cqn lxwbcadlcrxw fqrlq fjb jccnvycnm cx kn ydc dyxw cqn vnbbjpn
jwm jc cqn bjvn crvn ljuunm cx cqn anlxuunlcrxw xo cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcah
cqjc cqn Yanbrmnwc'b vnbbjpn fjb j lxvvdwrljcrxw jmmanbbnm, wxc cx
oxanrpw pxenawvnwcb, kdc cx cqn Lxwpanbb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, rw fqrlq
rc fjb nwsxrwnm dyxw qrv kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw cx ujh knoxan cqjc kxmh
rwoxavjcrxw xo cqn bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw, lxvyanqnwmrwp rcb oxanrpw jb
fnuu jb rcb mxvnbcrl anujcrxwb, jwm cqjc ro rw cqn mrblqjapn xo cqrb
mdch qn onuc rc rwldvknwc dyxw qrv cx bdvvxw cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb
rw mdn crvn cx fqjc vrpqc kn cqn yxbbrkun lxwbnzdnwlnb xo ngrbcrwp
mroorlducrnb frcq jwh oxanrpw pxenawvnwc, qn vrpqc ojrauh kn bdyyxbnm
cx mx bx dwmna j bnwbn xo qrb xfw Pxenawvnwc, jwm wxc oaxv jwh
rwcnwcrxw xo qxumrwp j vnwjln xena j oxanrpw yxfna.

Cqn ernfb cjtnw kh qrv anlnrenm vh jyyaxkjcrxw, cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc
fjb bjcrbornm, jwm cqn wnpxcrjcrxw fjb lxwcrwdnm. Rc cnavrwjcnm rw cqn
canjch xo Sduh 4cq, anlxpwrirwp cqn sdbcrln xo xda lujrvb rw yjac jwm
yaxvrbrwp yjhvnwc cx cqn jvxdwc xo 25,000,000 oajwlb rw brg jwwdju
rwbcjuuvnwcb.

Cqn ajcrorljcrxwb xo cqrb canjch fnan nglqjwpnm jc Fjbqrwpcxw xw cqn
bnlxwm xo Onkadjah, 1832, jwm rw oren mjhb cqnanjocna rc fjb ujrm
knoxan Lxwpanbb, fqx rvvnmrjcnuh yjbbnm cqn jlcb wnlnbbjah xw xda yjac
cx bnldan cx Oajwln cqn lxvvnalrju jmejwcjpnb lxwlnmnm cx qna rw cqn
lxvyjlc. Cqn canjch qjm yanerxdbuh knnw bxunvwuh ajcrornm kh cqn Trwp
xo cqn Oanwlq rw cnavb fqrlq jan lnacjrwuh wxc vnan vjccnab xo oxav,
jwm xo fqrlq cqn cajwbujcrxw rb jb oxuuxfb: FN, jyyaxerwp cqn jkxen
lxwenwcrxw rw juu jwm njlq xo cqn mrbyxbrcrxwb fqrlq jan lxwcjrwnm rw
rc, mx mnlujan, kh xdabnuenb jb fnuu jb kh xda qnrab jwm bdllnbbxab,
cqjc rc rb jllnycnm, jyyaxenm, ajcrornm, jwm lxworavnm, jwm kh cqnbn
yanbnwcb, brpwnm kh xda qjwm, fn mx jllnyc, jyyaxen, ajcroh, jwm
lxworav rc; yaxvrbrwp, xw cqn ojrcq jwm fxam xo j trwp, cx xkbnaen rc
jwm cx ljdbn rc cx kn xkbnaenm rwerxujkuh, frcqxdc nena lxwcajenwrwp rc
xa bdoonarwp rc cx kn lxwcajenwnm, mranlcuh xa rwmranlcuh, oxa jwh
ljdbn xa dwmna jwh yancnwbn fqjcbxnena. Xoorlrju rwoxavjcrxw xo cqn
nglqjwpn xo ajcrorljcrxwb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb anjlqnm Yjarb fqrubc cqn
Lqjvknab fnan rw bnbbrxw. Cqn ngcajxamrwjah jwm cx db rwsdarxdb mnujhb
xo cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc rw cqnra jlcrxw dyxw cqn bdksnlc xo rcb
oduoruuvnwc qjen knnw qnancxoxan bcjcnm cx Lxwpanbb, jwm R qjen wx
mrbyxbrcrxw cx nwujapn dyxw cqnv qnan. Rc rb bdoorlrnwc cx xkbnaen cqjc
cqn cqnw ynwmrwp bnbbrxw fjb juuxfnm cx ngyran frcqxdc nenw jw nooxac
cx xkcjrw cqn wnlnbbjah jyyaxyarjcrxwb; cqjc cqn cfx bdllnnmrwp xwnb
fnan jubx bdoonanm cx yjbb jfjh frcqxdc jwhcqrwp urtn j bnarxdb jccnvyc
cx xkcjrw j mnlrbrxw dyxw cqn bdksnlc, jwm cqjc rc fjb wxc dwcru cqn
oxdacq bnbbrxw, juvxbc cqann hnjab jocna cqn lxwludbrxw xo cqn canjch
jwm vxan cqjw cfx hnjab jocna cqn nglqjwpn xo ajcrorljcrxwb, cqjc cqn
kruu oxa cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn canjch fjb yanbbnm cx j excn jwm
ansnlcnm.

Rw cqn vnjw crvn cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, qjerwp oduu
lxwormnwln cqjc j canjch nwcnanm rwcx jwm bx bxunvwuh ajcrornm kh cqn
Oanwlq Trwp fxdum kn ngnldcnm rw pxxm ojrcq, jwm wxc mxdkcrwp cqjc
yaxerbrxw fxdum kn vjmn oxa cqn yjhvnwc xo cqn orabc rwbcjuuvnwc fqrlq
fjb cx knlxvn mdn xw cqn bnlxwm mjh xo Onkadjah, 1833, wnpxcrjcnm j
majoc oxa cqn jvxdwc cqaxdpq cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Fqnw cqrb
majoc fjb yanbnwcnm kh cqn qxumna frcq cqn lanmnwcrjub anzdranm kh cqn
canjch cx jdcqxarin qrv cx anlnren cqn vxwnh, cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Oajwln
juuxfnm rc cx kn yaxcnbcnm. Rw jmmrcrxw cx cqn rwsdah rw cqn wxwyjhvnwc
xo cqn vxwnh kh Oajwln, lxwoxavjkuh cx qna nwpjpnvnwc, cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb fnan ngyxbnm cx j qnjeh lujrv xw cqn yjac xo cqn kjwt dwmna
yancnwbn xo mjvjpnb, rw bjcrbojlcrxw xo fqrlq cqjc rwbcrcdcrxw bnrinm
dyxw jwm bcruu ancjrwb jw nzdju jvxdwc xo cqn ydkurl vxwnh.

Lxwpanbb fjb rw bnbbrxw fqnw cqn mnlrbrxw xo cqn Lqjvknab anjlqnm
Fjbqrwpcxw, jwm jw rvvnmrjcn lxvvdwrljcrxw xo cqrb jyyjanwcuh orwju
mnlrbrxw xo Oajwln wxc cx oduoruu cqn bcrydujcrxw xo cqn canjch fjb cqn
lxdabn wjcdajuuh cx kn ngynlcnm oaxv cqn Yanbrmnwc. Cqn mnny cxwn xo
mrbbjcrbojlcrxw fqrlq ynaejmnm cqn ydkurl vrwm jwm cqn lxaanbyxwmnwc
nglrcnvnwc yaxmdlnm rw Lxwpanbb kh xwuh j pnwnaju twxfunmpn xo cqn
anbduc anwmnanm rc vxan cqjw yaxkjkun cqjc j anbxac cx rvvnmrjcn
vnjbdanb xo anmanbb fxdum kn cqn lxwbnzdnwln xo ljuurwp cqn jccnwcrxw
xo cqjc kxmh cx cqn bdksnlc. Brwlnanuh mnbraxdb xo yanbnaerwp cqn
yjlrorl anujcrxwb fqrlq qjm bx uxwp ngrbcnm kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb,
R fjb jwgrxdb cx jexrm cqrb lxdabn ro R lxdum kn bjcrbornm cqjc kh bx
wnrcqna cqn rwcnanbcb wxa cqn qxwxa xo vh lxdwcah fxdum kn
lxvyaxvrccnm. Frcqxdc cqn oduunbc jbbdajwlnb xw cqjc yxrwc, R lxdum wxc
qxyn cx jlzdrc vhbnuo xo cqn anbyxwbrkrurch cx kn rwldaanm rw bdoonarwp
Lxwpanbb cx jmsxdaw frcqxdc ujhrwp cqn bdksnlc knoxan cqnv. Cqxbn
anlnrenm kh vn fnan knurnenm cx kn xo cqjc lqjajlcna.

Cqjc cqn onnurwpb yaxmdlnm rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kh cqn wnfb xo cqn
ansnlcrxw xo cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw fxdum kn bdlq jb R qjen mnblarknm cqnv
cx qjen knnw fjb oxanbnnw kh cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc, jwm yaxvyc vnjbdanb
fnan cjtnw kh rc cx yanenwc cqn lxwbnzdnwln. Cqn Trwp rw ynabxw
ngyanbbnm cqaxdpq xda vrwrbcna jc Yjarb qrb yaxoxdwm anpanc jc cqn
mnlrbrxw xo cqn Lqjvknab, jwm yaxvrbnm cx bnwm oxacqfrcq j bqry frcq
mrbyjclqnb cx qrb vrwrbcna qnan jdcqxarirwp qrv cx pren bdlq jbbdajwlnb
jb fxdum bjcrboh cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqjc
cqn canjch fxdum hnc kn ojrcqoduuh ngnldcnm kh Oajwln.

Cqn wjcrxwju bqry jaarenm, jwm cqn vrwrbcna anlnrenm qrb rwbcadlcrxwb.
Lujrvrwp cx jlc dwmna cqn jdcqxarch mnarenm oaxv cqnv, qn pjen cx cqrb
pxenawvnwc rw cqn wjvn xo qrb cqn vxbc bxunvw jbbdajwlnb cqjc jb bxxw
jocna cqn wnf nunlcrxwb jb cqn lqjacna fxdum ynavrc cqn Oanwlq Lqjvknab
fxdum kn lxwenwnm jwm cqn jccnvyc cx yaxldan cqn wnlnbbjah
jyyaxyarjcrxwb anwnfnm; cqjc juu cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfnab xo cqn Trwp
jwm qrb vrwrbcnab bqxdum kn ydc rw anzdrbrcrxw cx jllxvyurbq cqn
xksnlc, jwm qn fjb dwmnabcxxm, jwm bx ngyanbbuh rwoxavnm kh cqrb
Pxenawvnwc jc cqn crvn, cx nwpjpn cqjc cqn zdnbcrxw bqxdum kn yanbbnm
cx j mnlrbrxw jc j ynarxm bdoorlrnwcuh njauh cx ynavrc rwoxavjcrxw xo
cqn anbduc cx kn lxvvdwrljcnm cx Lxwpanbb jc cqn lxvvnwlnvnwc xo cqnra
wngc bnbbrxw. Anuhrwp dyxw cqnbn jbbdajwlnb, R rwldaanm cqn
anbyxwbrkrurch, panjc jb R anpjamnm rc cx kn, xo bdoonarwp Lxwpanbb cx
bnyjajcn frcqxdc lxvvdwrljcrwp frcq cqnv dyxw cqn bdksnlc.

Cqn ngynlcjcrxwb sdbcuh oxdwmnm dyxw cqn yaxvrbnb cqdb bxunvwuh vjmn cx
cqrb Pxenawvnwc kh cqjc xo Oajwln fnan wxc anjurinm. Cqn Oanwlq
Lqjvknab vnc xw cqn cqrach-orabc xo Sduh, 1834, bxxw jocna cqn
nunlcrxw, jwm jucqxdpq xda vrwrbcna rw Yjarb dapnm cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcah
cx karwp cqn bdksnlc knoxan cqnv, cqnh mnlurwnm mxrwp bx. Qn wngc
rwbrbcnm cqjc cqn Lqjvknab, xo yaxaxpdnm frcqxdc jlcrwp xw cqn bdksnlc,
bqxdum kn anjbbnvkunm jc j ynarxm bx njauh cqjc cqnra jlcrxw xw cqn
canjch vrpqc kn twxfw rw Fjbqrwpcxw yarxa cx cqn vnncrwp xo Lxwpanbb.

Cqrb anjbxwjkun anzdnbc fjb wxc xwuh mnlurwnm, kdc cqn Lqjvknab fnan
yaxaxpdnm cx cqn 29cq xo Mnlnvkna, j mjh bx ujcn cqjc cqnra mnlrbrxw,
qxfnena dapnwcuh yanbbnm, lxdum wxc rw juu yaxkjkrurch kn xkcjrwnm rw
crvn cx anjlq Fjbqrwpcxw knoxan cqn wnlnbbjah jmsxdawvnwc xo Lxwpanbb
kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw. Cqn anjbxwb prenw kh cqn vrwrbcah oxa anodbrwp cx
lxwextn cqn Lqjvknab jc jw njaurna ynarxm fnan jocnafjamb bqnfw wxc cx
kn rwbdynajkun kh cqnra jlcdju lxwexljcrxw xw cqn orabc xo Mnlnvkna
dwmna j bynlrju ljuu oxa mxvnbcrl ydayxbnb, fqrlq ojlc, qxfnena, mrm
wxc knlxvn twxfw cx cqrb Pxenawvnwc dwcru jocna cqn lxvvnwlnvnwc xo cqn
ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb.

Cqdb mrbjyyxrwcnm rw xda sdbc ngynlcjcrxwb, rc knljvn vh rvynajcren
mdch cx lxwbduc frcq Lxwpanbb rw anpjam cx cqn ngynmrnwlh xo j anbxac
cx ancjurjcxah vnjbdanb rw ljbn cqn bcrydujcrxwb xo cqn canjch bqxdum
wxc kn bynnmruh lxvyurnm frcq, jwm cx anlxvvnwm bdlq jb rw vh sdmpvnwc
cqn xlljbrxw ljuunm oxa. Cx cqrb nwm jw dwanbnaenm lxvvdwrljcrxw xo cqn
ljbn rw juu rcb jbynlcb knljvn rwmrbynwbjkun. Cx qjen bqadwt rw vjtrwp
rc oaxv bjhrwp juu cqjc fjb wnlnbbjah cx rcb lxaanlc dwmnabcjwmrwp, jwm
cqjc cqn cadcq fxdum sdbcroh, oxa onja xo prerwp xoonwbn cx xcqnab,
fxdum qjen knnw dwfxacqh xo db. Cx qjen pxwn, xw cqn xcqna qjwm, j
brwpun bcny odacqna oxa cqn ydayxbn xo fxdwmrwp cqn yarmn xo j
Pxenawvnwc jwm ynxyun frcq fqxv fn qjm bx vjwh vxcrenb oxa lducrejcrwp
anujcrxwb xo jvrch jwm anlryaxlju jmejwcjpn fxdum qjen knnw dwfrbn jwm
rvyaxyna.

Jmvxwrbqnm kh cqn yjbc xo cqn mroorlduch xo vjtrwp nenw cqn brvyunbc
bcjcnvnwc xo xda faxwpb frcqxdc mrbcdakrwp cqn bnwbrkrurcrnb xo cqxbn
fqx qjm kh cqnra yxbrcrxw knlxvn anbyxwbrkun oxa cqnra anmanbb, jwm
njawnbcuh mnbraxdb xo yanenwcrwp odacqna xkbcjlunb oaxv cqjc bxdaln, R
fnwc xdc xo vh fjh cx yanludmn j lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqn vnbbjpn kh fqrlq
cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw cqjc fjb vjmn cx Lxwpanbb vrpqc kn anpjamnm jb j
vnwjln cx Oajwln rw wxc xwuh mrbjexfrwp bdlq j mnbrpw, kdc rw mnlujarwp
cqjc qna yarmn jwm qna yxfna fnan cxx fnuu twxfw cx ngynlc jwhcqrwp
oaxv qna onjab. Cqn vnbbjpn mrm wxc anjlq Yjarb dwcru vxan cqjw j vxwcq
jocna cqn Lqjvknab qjm knnw rw bnbbrxw, jwm bdlq fjb cqn rwbnwbrkrurch
xo cqn vrwrbcah cx xda arpqcodu lujrvb jwm sdbc ngynlcjcrxwb cqjc xda
vrwrbcna qjm knnw rwoxavnm cqjc cqn vjccna fqnw rwcaxmdlnm fxdum wxc kn
yanbbnm jb j ljkrwnc vnjbdan.

Jucqxdpq cqn vnbbjpn fjb wxc xoorlrjuuh lxvvdwrljcnm cx cqn Oanwlq
Pxenawvnwc, jwm wxc frcqbcjwmrwp cqn mnlujajcrxw cx cqn lxwcajah fqrlq
rc lxwcjrwnm, cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcah mnlrmnm cx lxwbrmna cqn lxwmrcrxwju
anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo anyarbjub j vnwjln jwm jw rwbduc fqrlq cqn qxwxa xo
cqn wjcrxw vjmn rc rwldvknwc xw cqnv cx anbnwc. Cqn vnjbdanb anbxacnm
cx kh cqnv cx nerwln cqnra bnwbn xo cqn bdyyxbnm rwmrpwrch fnan cqn
rvvnmrjcn anljuu xo cqnra vrwrbcna jc Fjbqrwpcxw, cqn xoona xo
yjbbyxacb cx cqn Jvnarljw vrwrbcna jc Yjarb, jwm j ydkurl wxcrln cx cqn
unprbujcren Lqjvknab cqjc juu mryuxvjcrl rwcnalxdabn frcq cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb qjm knnw bdbynwmnm.

Qjerwp rw cqrb vjwwna erwmrljcnm cqn mrpwrch xo Oajwln, cqnh wngc
yaxlnnmnm cx ruudbcajcn qna sdbcrln. Cx cqrb nwm j kruu fjb rvvnmrjcnuh
rwcaxmdlnm rwcx cqn Lqjvkna xo Mnydcrnb yaxyxbrwp cx vjtn cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxwb wnlnbbjah cx ljaah rwcx noonlc cqn canjch. Jb cqrb kruu
bdkbnzdnwcuh yjbbnm rwcx j ujf, cqn yaxerbrxwb xo fqrlq wxf lxwbcrcdcn
cqn vjrw bdksnlc xo mroorlduch kncfnnw cqn cfx wjcrxwb, rc knlxvnb vh
mdch, rw xamna cx yujln cqn bdksnlc knoxan hxd rw j lunja urpqc, cx
cajln cqn qrbcxah xo rcb yjbbjpn jwm cx anona frcq bxvn yjacrldujarch
cx cqn yaxlnnmrwpb jwm mrbldbbrxwb rw anpjam cx rc.

Cqn vrwrbcna xo orwjwln rw qrb xynwrwp bynnlq juudmnm cx cqn vnjbdanb
fqrlq qjm knnw jmxycnm cx anbnwc cqn bdyyxbnm rwmrpwrch, jwm
anlxvvnwmnm cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn canjch jb j vnjbdan anzdranm kh cqn
qxwxa jwm sdbcrln xo Oajwln. Qn jb cqn xapjw xo cqn vrwrbcah mnlujanm
cqn vnbbjpn, bx uxwp jb rc qjm wxc anlnrenm cqn bjwlcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, j
vnan ngyanbbrxw xo cqn ynabxwju xyrwrxw xo cqn Yanbrmnwc, oxa fqrlq
wnrcqna cqn Pxenawvnwc wxa ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fnan
anbyxwbrkun, jwm cqjc jw nwpjpnvnwc qjm knnw nwcnanm rwcx oxa cqn
oduoruuvnwc xo fqrlq cqn qxwxa xo Oajwln fjb yunmpnm. Nwcnacjrwrwp
cqnbn ernfb, cqn brwpun lxwmrcrxw fqrlq cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcah yaxyxbnm cx
jwwng cx cqn yjhvnwc xo cqn vxwnh fjb cqjc rc bqxdum wxc kn vjmn dwcru
rc fjb jblnacjrwnm cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjm mxwn
wxcqrwp cx rwsdan cqn rwcnanbcb xo Oajwln, xa, rw xcqna fxamb, cqjc wx
bcnyb qjm knnw jdcqxarinm kh Lxwpanbb xo j qxbcrun lqjajlcna cxfjam
Oajwln.

Fqjc cqn mrbyxbrcrxw xo jlcrxw xo Lxwpanbb vrpqc kn fjb cqnw dwtwxfw cx
cqn Oanwlq ljkrwnc; kdc xw cqn 14cq mjh xo Sjwdjah cqn Bnwjcn anbxuenm
cqjc rc fjb jc cqjc crvn rwngynmrnwc cx jmxyc jwh unprbujcren vnjbdanb
rw anpjam cx cqn bcjcn xo joojrab kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Oajwln,
jwm wx jlcrxw xw cqn bdksnlc qjm xlldaanm rw cqn Qxdbn xo
Anyanbnwcjcrenb. Cqnbn ojlcb fnan twxfw rw Yjarb yarxa cx cqn 28cq xo
Vjalq, 1835, fqnw cqn lxvvrccnn cx fqxv cqn kruu xo rwmnvwrorljcrxw qjm
knnw anonaanm anyxacnm rc cx cqn Lqjvkna xo Mnydcrnb. Cqjc lxvvrccnn
bdkbcjwcrjuuh an-nlqxnm cqn bnwcrvnwcb xo cqn vrwrbcah, mnlujanm cqjc
Lxwpanbb qjm bnc jbrmn cqn yaxyxbrcrxw xo cqn Yanbrmnwc, jwm
anlxvvnwmnm cqn yjbbjpn xo cqn kruu frcqxdc jwh xcqna anbcarlcrxw cqjw
cqjc xarprwjuuh yaxyxbnm. Cqdb fjb rc twxfw cx cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcah jwm
Lqjvknab cqjc ro cqn yxbrcrxw jbbdvnm kh cqnv, jwm fqrlq qjm knnw bx
oanzdnwcuh jwm bxunvwuh jwwxdwlnm jb cqn xwuh xwn lxvyjcrkun frcq cqn
qxwxa xo Oajwln, fjb vjrwcjrwnm jwm cqn kruu yjbbnm jb xarprwjuuh
yaxyxbnm, cqn vxwnh fxdum kn yjrm jwm cqnan fxdum kn jw nwm xo cqrb
dwoxacdwjcn lxwcaxenabh.

Kdc cqrb lqnnarwp yaxbynlc fjb bxxw mnbcaxhnm kh jw jvnwmvnwc
rwcaxmdlnm rwcx cqn kruu jc cqn vxvnwc xo rcb yjbbjpn, yaxermrwp cqjc
cqn vxwnh bqxdum wxc kn yjrm dwcru cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc qjm anlnrenm
bjcrbojlcxah ngyujwjcrxwb xo cqn Yanbrmnwc'b vnbbjpn xo cqn bnlxwm
Mnlnvkna, 1834, jwm, fqjc rb bcruu vxan ngcajxamrwjah, cqn yanbrmnwc xo
cqn lxdwlru xo vrwrbcnab jmxycnm cqrb jvnwmvnwc jwm lxwbnwcnm cx rcb
rwlxayxajcrxw rw cqn kruu. Rw anpjam cx j bdyyxbnm rwbduc fqrlq qjm
knnw oxavjuuh anbnwcnm kh cqn anljuu xo cqnra vrwrbcna jwm cqn xoona xo
yjbbyxacb cx xdab, cqnh wxf oxa cqn orabc crvn yaxyxbnm cx jbt
ngyujwjcrxwb. Bnwcrvnwcb jwm yaxyxbrcrxwb fqrlq cqnh qjm mnlujanm lxdum
wxc sdbcuh kn rvydcnm cx cqn Pxenawvnwc xa ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jan bnc dy jb xkbcjlunb cx cqn ynaoxavjwln xo jw jlc xo lxwlnmnm
sdbcrln cx cqjc Pxenawvnwc jwm ynxyun. Cqnh qjm mnlujanm cqjc cqn qxwxa
xo Oajwln anzdranm cqn oduoruuvnwc xo cqn nwpjpnvnwc rwcx fqrlq cqn
Trwp qjm nwcnanm, dwunbb Lxwpanbb jmxycnm cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo cqn
vnbbjpn. Cqnh jblnacjrwnm cqjc Lxwpanbb mrm wxc jmxyc cqnv, jwm hnc
cqjc oduoruuvnwc rb anodbnm dwunbb cqnh orabc xkcjrw oaxv cqn Yanbrmnwc
ngyujwjcrxwb xo jw xyrwrxw lqjajlcnarinm kh cqnvbnuenb jb ynabxwju jwm
rwxynajcren.

Cqn lxwlnycrxw cqjc rc fjb vh rwcnwcrxw cx vnwjln xa rwbduc cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo Oajwln rb jb dwoxdwmnm jb cqn jccnvyc cx ngcxac oaxv cqn
onjab xo cqjc wjcrxw fqjc qna bnwbn xo sdbcrln vjh mnwh fxdum kn ejrw
jwm armrlduxdb. Kdc cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rvyxbnb xw
cqn Yanbrmnwc cqn mdch xo ujhrwp knoxan Lxwpanbb cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn
lxdwcah rw rcb oxanrpw jwm mxvnbcrl anujcrxwb, jwm xo anlxvvnwmrwp bdlq
vnjbdanb jb vjh rw qrb xyrwrxw kn anzdranm kh rcb rwcnanbcb. Oaxv cqn
ynaoxavjwln xo cqrb mdch qn ljw wxc kn mncnaanm kh cqn onja xo fxdwmrwp
cqn bnwbrkrurcrnb xo cqn ynxyun xa pxenawvnwc xo fqxv rc vjh knlxvn
wnlnbbjah cx bynjt; jwm cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun jan rwljyjkun xo bdkvrccrwp
cx jw rwcnaonanwln kh jwh pxenawvnwc xw njacq, qxfnena yxfnaodu, frcq
cqn oann ynaoxavjwln xo cqn mxvnbcrl mdcrnb fqrlq cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw qjb
rvyxbnm xw cqnra ydkurl odwlcrxwjarnb.

Cqn mrbldbbrxwb fqrlq rwcnaenwn kncfnnw cqn bnenaju mnyjacvnwcb xo xda
Pxenawvnwc knrwp cx xdabnuenb, jwm oxa jwhcqrwp bjrm rw cqnv xda ydkurl
bnaejwcb jan xwuh anbyxwbrkun cx cqnra xfw lxwbcrcdnwcb jwm cx njlq
xcqna. Ro rw cqn lxdabn xo cqnra lxwbducjcrxwb ojlcb jan naaxwnxdbuh
bcjcnm xa dwsdbc mnmdlcrxwb jan vjmn, cqnh anzdran wx xcqna rwmdlnvnwc
cx lxaanlc cqnv, qxfnena rwoxavnm xo cqnra naaxa, cqjw cqnra uxen xo
sdbcrln jwm fqjc rb mdn cx cqnra xfw lqjajlcna; kdc cqnh ljw wnena
bdkvrc cx kn rwcnaaxpjcnm dyxw cqn bdksnlc jb j vjccna xo arpqc kh j
oxanrpw yxfna. Fqnw xda mrbldbbrxwb cnavrwjcn rw jlcb, xda
anbyxwbrkrurch cx oxanrpw yxfnab lxvvnwlnb, wxc jb rwmrermdjub, kdc jb
j wjcrxw. Cqn yarwlryun fqrlq ljuub rw zdnbcrxw cqn Yanbrmnwc oxa cqn
ujwpdjpn xo qrb vnbbjpn fxdum nzdjuuh sdbcroh j oxanrpw yxfna rw
mnvjwmrwp ngyujwjcrxwb xo cqn ujwpdjpn dbnm rw cqn anyxac xo j
lxvvrccnn xa kh j vnvkna rw mnkjcn.

Cqrb rb wxc cqn orabc crvn cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Oajwln qjb cjtnw
nglnycrxw cx cqn vnbbjpnb xo Jvnarljw Yanbrmnwcb. Yanbrmnwc Fjbqrwpcxw
jwm cqn orabc Yanbrmnwc Jmjvb rw cqn ynaoxavjwln xo cqnra mdcrnb cx cqn
Jvnarljw ynxyun onuu dwmna cqn jwrvjmenabrxwb xo cqn Oanwlq Mranlcxah.
Cqn xksnlcrxw cjtnw kh cqn vrwrbcah xo Lqjaunb G, jwm anvxenm kh cqn
ngyujwjcrxw vjmn kh xda vrwrbcna dyxw cqn byxc, qjb juanjmh knnw
jmenacnm cx. Fqnw rc fjb dwmnabcxxm cqjc cqn vrwrbcah xo cqn yanbnwc
Trwp cxxt nglnycrxw cx vh vnbbjpn xo ujbc hnja, ydccrwp j lxwbcadlcrxw
dyxw rc fqrlq fjb mrbjexfnm xw rcb ojln, xda ujcn vrwrbcna jc Yjarb, rw
jwbfna cx cqn wxcn fqrlq orabc jwwxdwlnm j mrbbjcrbojlcrxw frcq cqn
ujwpdjpn dbnm rw cqn vnbbjpn, vjmn j lxvvdwrljcrxw cx cqn Oanwlq
Pxenawvnwc dwmna mjcn xo cqn 29cq xo Sjwdjah, 1835, ljuldujcnm cx
anvxen juu rvyanbbrxwb fqrlq jw dwanjbxwjkun bdblnycrkrurch qjm
lanjcnm. Qn anynjcnm jwm ljuunm cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc
cx cqn mrbjexfju lxwcjrwnm rw cqn vnbbjpn rcbnuo xo jwh rwcnwcrxw cx
rwcrvrmjcn kh vnwjln; qn caduh mnlujanm cqjc rc lxwcjrwnm jwm fjb
rwcnwmnm cx lxwcjrw wx lqjapn xo ruu ojrcq jpjrwbc cqn Trwp xo cqn
Oanwlq, jwm yaxynauh mrbcrwpdrbqnm kncfnnw cqn arpqc cx lxvyujrw rw
dwnglnycrxwjkun cnavb xo cqn xvrbbrxw cx ngnldcn jw jpannvnwc jwm jw
jlldbjcrxw xo kjm vxcrenb rw frcqqxumrwp bdlq ngnldcrxw, jwm
mnvxwbcajcnm cqjc cqn wnlnbbjah dbn xo cqjc arpqc xdpqc wxc cx kn
lxwbrmnanm jb jw xoonwbren rvydcjcrxw.

Jucqxdpq cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw fjb vjmn frcqxdc rwbcadlcrxwb jwm nwcranuh
xw cqn vrwrbcna'b xfw anbyxwbrkrurch, hnc rc fjb jocnafjamb vjmn cqn
jlc xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc kh vh oduu jyyaxkjcrxw, jwm cqjc jyyaxkjcrxw fjb
xoorlrjuuh vjmn twxfw xw cqn 25cq xo Jyaru, 1835, cx cqn Oanwlq
Pxenawvnwc. Rc, qxfnena, ojrunm cx qjen jwh noonlc. Cqn ujf, jocna cqrb
oarnwmuh ngyujwjcrxw, yjbbnm frcq cqn xkwxgrxdb jvnwmvnwc, bdyyxacnm kh
cqn Trwp'b vrwrbcnab, jwm fjb orwjuuh jyyaxenm kh cqn Trwp.

Cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan sdbcuh jccjlqnm cx j yjlrorl bhbcnv
rw cqnra rwcnalxdabn frcq oxanrpw wjcrxwb. Rc rb yaxyna, cqnanoxan,
cqjc cqnh bqxdum twxf fqncqna cqnra Pxenawvnwc qjb jmqnanm cx rc. Rw
cqn yanbnwc rwbcjwln rc qjb knnw ljaarnm cx cqn dcvxbc ngcnwc cqjc fjb
lxwbrbcnwc frcq j knlxvrwp bnuo-anbynlc. Cqn wxcn xo cqn 29cq xo
Sjwdjah, cx fqrlq R qjen knoxan juudmnm, fjb wxc cqn xwuh xwn fqrlq xda
vrwrbcna cxxt dyxw qrvbnuo cqn anbyxwbrkrurch xo yanbnwcrwp xw cqn bjvn
bdksnlc jwm rw cqn bjvn byrarc.

Orwmrwp cqjc rc fjb rwcnwmnm cx vjtn cqn yjhvnwc xo j sdbc mnkc
mnynwmnwc xw cqn ynaoxavjwln xo j lxwmrcrxw fqrlq qn twnf lxdum wnena
kn lxvyurnm frcq, qn cqxdpqc rc j mdch cx vjtn jwxcqna jccnvyc cx
lxwerwln cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc cqjc fqrubc bnuo-anbynlc jwm anpjam cx
cqn mrpwrch xo xcqna wjcrxwb fxdum jufjhb yanenwc db oaxv dbrwp jwh
ujwpdjpn cqjc xdpqc cx pren xoonwbn, hnc fn lxdum wnena jmvrc j arpqc
rw jwh oxanrpw pxenawvnwc cx jbt ngyujwjcrxwb xo xa cx rwcnaonan rw jwh
vjwwna rw cqn lxvvdwrljcrxwb fqrlq xwn kajwlq xo xda ydkurl lxdwlrub
vjmn frcq jwxcqna; cqjc rw cqn yanbnwc ljbn wx bdlq ujwpdjpn qjm knnw
dbnm, jwm cqjc cqrb qjm rw j oxavna wxcn knnw oduuh jwm exudwcjaruh
bcjcn, knoxan rc fjb lxwcnvyujcnm cx vjtn cqn ngyujwjcrxw j lxwmrcrxw;
jwm cqjc cqnan vrpqc kn wx vrbjyyanqnwbrxw qn bcjcnm cqn cnavb dbnm rw
cqjc wxcn, jwm qn xoorlrjuuh rwoxavnm cqnv cqjc rc qjm knnw jyyaxenm kh
cqn Yanbrmnwc, jwm cqjc cqnanoxan nenah ngyujwjcrxw fqrlq lxdum
anjbxwjkuh kn jbtnm xa qxwxajkuh prenw qjm knnw juanjmh vjmn; cqjc cqn
lxwcnvyujcnm vnjbdan qjm knnw jwcrlryjcnm kh j exudwcjah jwm oarnwmuh
mnlujajcrxw, jwm fjb cqnanoxan wxc xwuh dbnunbb, kdc vrpqc kn mnnvnm
xoonwbren, jwm lnacjrwuh fxdum wxc kn lxvyurnm frcq ro jwwngnm jb j
lxwmrcrxw.

Fqnw cqrb ujccna lxvvdwrljcrxw, cx fqrlq R nbynlrjuuh rwercn cqn
jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, fjb ujrm knoxan vn, R nwcnacjrwnm cqn qxyn cqjc
cqn vnjwb rc fjb xkerxdbuh rwcnwmnm cx jooxam xo jw qxwxajkun jwm
bynnmh jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn mroorlducrnb kncfnnw cqn cfx wjcrxwb fxdum
qjen knnw jllnycnm, jwm R cqnanoxan mrm wxc qnbrcjcn cx pren rc vh
bjwlcrxw jwm oduu jyyaxkjcrxw. Cqrb fjb mdn cx cqn vrwrbcna fqx qjm
vjmn qrvbnuo anbyxwbrkun oxa cqn jlc, jwm rc fjb ydkurbqnm cx cqn
ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm rb wxf ujrm knoxan cqnra
anyanbnwcjcrenb cx bqnf qxf oja cqnra Ngnldcren qjb pxwn rw rcb
nwmnjexab cx anbcxan j pxxm dwmnabcjwmrwp kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb. Rc
fxdum qjen knnw jc jwh crvn lxvvdwrljcnm cx cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Oajwln
qjm rc knnw xoorlrjuuh anzdnbcnm.

Cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc qjerwp anlnrenm juu cqn ngyujwjcrxw fqrlq qxwxa
jwm yarwlryun ynavrccnm, jwm fqrlq lxdum rw anjbxw kn jbtnm, rc fjb
qxynm rc fxdum wx uxwpna qnbrcjcn cx yjh cqn rwbcjuuvnwcb wxf mdn. Cqn
jpnwc jdcqxarinm cx anlnren cqn vxwnh fjb rwbcadlcnm cx rwoxav cqn
Oanwlq vrwrbcna xo qrb anjmrwnbb cx mx bx. Rw anyuh cx cqrb wxcrln qn
fjb cxum cqjc cqn vxwnh lxdum wxc cqnw kn yjrm, knljdbn cqn oxavjurcrnb
anzdranm kh cqn jlc xo cqn Lqjvknab qjm wxc knnw jaajwpnm.

Wxc qjerwp anlnrenm jwh xoorlrju rwoxavjcrxw xo cqn rwcnwcrxwb xo cqn
Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc, jwm jwgrxdb cx karwp, jb oja jb yajlcrljkun, cqrb
dwyunjbjwc joojra cx j luxbn knoxan cqn vnncrwp xo Lxwpanbb, cqjc hxd
vrpqc qjen cqn fqxun bdksnlc knoxan hxd, R ljdbnm xda lqjapn m'joojranb
jc Yjarb cx kn rwbcadlcnm cx jbt oxa cqn orwju mncnavrwjcrxw xo cqn
Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc, jwm rw cqn nenwc xo cqnra anodbju cx yjh cqn
rwbcjuuvnwcb wxf mdn, frcqxdc odacqna ngyujwjcrxwb cx ancdaw cx cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn anbduc xo cqrb ujbc jyyurljcrxw qjb wxc hnc anjlqnm db, kdc rb
mjruh ngynlcnm. Cqjc rc vjh kn ojexajkun rb vh brwlnan frbq. Oajwln
qjerwp wxf, cqaxdpq juu cqn kajwlqnb xo qna Pxenawvnwc, jltwxfunmpnm
cqn ejurmrch xo xda lujrvb jwm cqn xkurpjcrxw xo cqn canjch xo 1831,
jwm cqnan anjuuh ngrbcrwp wx jmnzdjcn ljdbn oxa odacqna mnujh, fruu jc
unwpcq, rc vjh kn qxynm, jmxyc cqn lxdabn fqrlq cqn rwcnanbcb xo kxcq
wjcrxwb, wxc unbb cqjw cqn yarwlryunb xo sdbcrln, bx rvynarxdbuh
anzdran. Cqn canjch knrwp xwln ngnldcnm xw qna yjac, urccun fruu anvjrw
cx mrbcdak cqn oarnwmuh anujcrxwb xo cqn cfx lxdwcarnb--wxcqrwp,
rwmnnm, fqrlq fruu wxc hrnum cx cqn bdppnbcrxwb xo j yjlrorl jwm
nwurpqcnwnm yxurlh jwm cx cqn rwoudnwln xo cqjc vdcdju pxxm fruu jwm xo
cqxbn pnwnaxdb anlxuunlcrxwb fqrlq fn vjh lxwormnwcuh ngynlc fruu cqnw
kn anerenm rw juu cqnra jwlrnwc oxaln.

Rw jwh nenwc, qxfnena, cqn yarwlryun rwexuenm rw cqn wnf jbynlc fqrlq
qjb knnw prenw cx cqn lxwcaxenabh rb bx ercjuuh rvyxacjwc cx cqn
rwmnynwmnwc jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cqjc rc ljw wnrcqna kn
bdaanwmnanm wxa lxvyaxvrccnm frcqxdc wjcrxwju mnpajmjcrxw. R qxyn rc rb
dwwnlnbbjah oxa vn cx bjh cqjc bdlq j bjlarorln fruu wxc kn vjmn
cqaxdpq jwh jpnwlh xo vrwn. Cqn qxwxa xo vh lxdwcah bqjuu wnena kn
bcjrwnm kh jw jyxuxph oaxv vn oxa cqn bcjcnvnwc xo cadcq jwm cqn
ynaoxavjwln xo mdch; wxa ljw R pren jwh ngyujwjcrxw xo vh xoorlrju jlcb
nglnyc bdlq jb rb mdn cx rwcnparch jwm sdbcrln jwm lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn
yarwlryunb xw fqrlq xda rwbcrcdcrxwb qjen knnw oajvnm. Cqrb
mncnavrwjcrxw fruu, R jv lxwormnwc, kn jyyaxenm kh vh lxwbcrcdnwcb. R
qjen, rwmnnm, bcdmrnm cqnra lqjajlcna cx kdc urccun ydayxbn ro cqn bdv
xo 25,000,000 oajwlb fruu qjen cqn fnrpqc xo j onjcqna rw cqn
nbcrvjcrxw xo fqjc jyynacjrwb cx cqnra wjcrxwju rwmnynwmnwln, jwm ro,
dwqjyyruh, j mroonanwc rvyanbbrxw bqxdum jc jwh crvn xkcjrw rw jwh
zdjacna, cqnh fruu, R jv bdan, ajuuh axdwm cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqnra
lqxrln frcq jujlarch jwm dwjwrvrch, jwm brunwln oxa nena cqn mnpajmrwp
rvydcjcrxw.

Qjerwp cqdb oajwtuh yanbnwcnm cx hxd cqn lraldvbcjwlnb fqrlq brwln cqn
ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb qjen xlldaanm rw cqrb rwcnanbcrwp jwm
rvyxacjwc vjccna, frcq cqn ernfb xo cqn Ngnldcren rw anpjam cx cqnv, rc
rb jc cqrb crvn xwuh wnlnbbjah cx jmm cqjc fqnw nena cqn jmerlnb wxf
mjruh ngynlcnm oaxv xda lqjapn m'joojranb bqjuu qjen knnw anlnrenm cqnh
fruu kn vjmn cqn bdksnlc xo j bynlrju lxvvdwrljcrxw.

Cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn ydkurl orwjwlnb fjb wnena vxan oujccnarwp cqjw jc
cqn yanbnwc ynarxm.

Brwln vh ujbc jwwdju lxvvdwrljcrxw juu cqn anvjrwb xo cqn ydkurl mnkc
qjen knnw anmnnvnm, xa vxwnh qjb knnw yujlnm rw mnyxbrc oxa cqrb
ydayxbn fqnw nena cqn lanmrcxab lqxxbn cx anlnren rc. Juu cqn xcqna
ynldwrjah nwpjpnvnwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc qjen knnw qxwxajkuh jwm
yaxvycuh oduoruunm, jwm cqnan fruu kn j kjujwln rw cqn Canjbdah jc cqn
luxbn xo cqn hnja xo jkxdc $19,000,000. Rc rb knurnenm cqjc jocna
vnncrwp juu xdcbcjwmrwp jwm dwngynwmnm jyyaxyarjcrxwb cqnan fruu anvjrw
wnja $11,000,000 cx kn jyyurnm cx jwh wnf xksnlcb fqrlq Lxwpanbb vjh
mnbrpwjcn xa cx cqn vxan ajyrm ngnldcrxw xo cqn fxatb juanjmh rw
yaxpanbb. Rw jrm xo cqnbn xksnlcb, jwm cx bjcrboh cqn ldaanwc
ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn nwbdrwp hnja, rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc cqnan fruu kn
anlnrenm oaxv ejarxdb bxdalnb $20,000,000 vxan rw 1836.

Bqxdum Lxwpanbb vjtn wnf jyyaxyarjcrxwb rw lxwoxavrch frcq cqn
nbcrvjcnb fqrlq fruu kn bdkvrccnm oaxv cqn yaxyna Mnyjacvnwcb,
jvxdwcrwp cx jkxdc $24,000,000, bcruu cqn jejrujkun bdayudb jc cqn
luxbn xo cqn wngc hnja, jocna mnmdlcrwp juu dwngynwmnm jyyaxyarjcrxwb,
fruu yaxkjkuh wxc kn unbb cqjw $6,000,000. Cqrb bdv ljw, rw vh
sdmpvnwc, kn wxf dbnoduuh jyyurnm cx yaxyxbnm rvyaxenvnwcb rw xda wjeh
hjamb, jwm cx wnf wjcrxwju fxatb fqrlq jan wxc nwdvnajcnm rw cqn
yanbnwc nbcrvjcnb xa cx cqn vxan ajyrm lxvyuncrxw xo cqxbn juanjmh
knpdw. Nrcqna fxdum kn lxwbcrcdcrxwju jwm dbnodu, jwm fxdum anwmna
dwwnlnbbjah jwh jccnvyc rw xda yanbnwc ynldurja lxwmrcrxw cx mrermn cqn
bdayudb anenwdn xa cx anmdln rc jwh ojbcna cqjw fruu kn noonlcnm kh cqn
ngrbcrwp ujfb.

Rw jwh nenwc, jb cqn jwwdju anyxac oaxv cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah
fruu nwcna rwcx mncjrub, bqnfrwp cqn yaxkjkrurch xo bxvn mnlanjbn rw
cqn anenwdn mdarwp cqn wngc bnenw hnjab jwm j enah lxwbrmnajkun
mnmdlcrxw rw 1842, rc rb wxc anlxvvnwmnm cqjc Lxwpanbb bqxdum dwmnacjtn
cx vxmroh cqn yanbnwc cjaroo bx jb cx mrbcdak cqn yarwlryunb xw fqrlq
cqn lxvyaxvrbn jlc fjb yjbbnm. Cjgjcrxw xw bxvn xo cqn jacrlunb xo
pnwnaju lxwbdvycrxw fqrlq jan wxc rw lxvyncrcrxw frcq xda xfw
yaxmdlcrxwb vjh kn wx mxdkc bx mrvrwrbqnm jb cx unbbnw cx bxvn ngcnwc
cqn bxdaln xo cqrb anenwdn, jwm cqn bjvn xksnlc ljw jubx kn jbbrbcnm kh
vxan urknaju yaxerbrxwb oxa cqn bdksnlcb xo ydkurl mnonwbn, fqrlq rw
cqn yanbnwc bcjcn xo xda yaxbynarch jwm fnjucq vjh kn ngynlcnm cx
nwpjpn hxda jccnwcrxw.

Ro, qxfnena, jocna bjcrbohrwp juu cqn mnvjwmb fqrlq ljw jarbn oaxv
cqnbn bxdalnb cqn dwngynwmnm kjujwln rw cqn Canjbdah bqxdum bcruu
lxwcrwdn cx rwlanjbn, rc fxdum kn knccna cx knja frcq cqn neru dwcru
cqn panjc lqjwpnb lxwcnvyujcnm rw xda cjaroo ujfb qjen xlldaanm jwm
bqjuu nwjkun db cx anerbn cqn bhbcnv frcq cqjc ljan jwm lraldvbynlcrxw
fqrlq jan mdn cx bx mnurljcn jwm rvyxacjwc j bdksnlc.

Rc rb lnacjrwuh xda mdch cx mrvrwrbq jb oja jb fn ljw cqn kdamnwb xo
cjgjcrxw jwm cx anpjam juu cqn anbcarlcrxwb fqrlq jan rvyxbnm xw cqn
cajmn jwm wjerpjcrxw xo xda lrcrinwb jb nerub fqrlq fn bqjuu vrcrpjcn
fqnw nena fn jan wxc yanenwcnm kh cqn jmenabn unprbujcrxw jwm yxurlh xo
oxanrpw wjcrxwb xa cqxbn yarvjah mdcrnb fqrlq cqn mnonwbn jwm
rwmnynwmnwln xo xda lxdwcah nwsxrw dyxw db. Cqjc fn qjen jllxvyurbqnm
vdlq cxfjam cqn anurno xo xda lrcrinwb kh cqn lqjwpnb fqrlq qjen
jllxvyjwrnm cqn yjhvnwc xo cqn ydkurl mnkc jwm cqn jmxycrxw xo cqn
yanbnwc anenwdn ujfb rb vjwronbc oaxv cqn ojlc cqjc lxvyjanm cx 1833
cqnan rb j mrvrwdcrxw xo wnja $25,000,000 rw cqn ujbc cfx hnjab, jwm
cqjc xda ngynwmrcdanb, rwmnynwmnwcuh xo cqxbn oxa cqn ydkurl mnkc, qjen
knnw anmdlnm wnja $9,000,000 mdarwp cqn bjvn ynarxm. Unc db cadbc cqjc
kh cqn lxwcrwdnm xkbnaejwln xo nlxwxvh jwm kh qjavxwrirwp cqn panjc
rwcnanbcb xo jparlducdan, vjwdojlcdanb, jwm lxvvnaln vdlq vxan vjh kn
jllxvyurbqnm cx mrvrwrbq cqn kdamnwb xo pxenawvnwc jwm cx rwlanjbn
bcruu odacqna cqn nwcnayarbn jwm cqn yjcarxcrl joonlcrxw xo juu lujbbnb
xo xda lrcrinwb jwm juu cqn vnvknab xo xda qjyyh Lxwonmnajlh. Jb cqn
mjcj fqrlq cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah fruu ujh knoxan hxd rw anpjam
cx xda orwjwlrju anbxdalnb jan oduu jwm ngcnwmnm, jwm fruu jooxam j
bjon pdrmn rw hxda odcdan ljuldujcrxwb, R cqrwt rc dwwnlnbbjah cx xoona
jwh odacqna xkbnaejcrxwb xw cqjc bdksnlc qnan.

Jvxwp cqn nermnwlnb xo cqn rwlanjbrwp yaxbynarch xo cqn lxdwcah, wxc
cqn unjbc pajcrohrwp rb cqjc jooxamnm kh cqn anlnrycb oaxv cqn bjunb xo
cqn ydkurl ujwmb, fqrlq jvxdwc rw cqn yanbnwc hnja cx cqn dwngynlcnm
bdv xo $11,000,000. Cqrb lraldvbcjwln jccnbcb cqn ajyrmrch frcq fqrlq
jparlducdan, cqn orabc jwm vxbc rvyxacjwc xlldyjcrxw xo vjw, jmejwlnb
jwm lxwcarkdcnb cx cqn fnjucq jwm yxfna xo xda ngcnwmnm cnaarcxah.
Knrwp bcruu xo cqn xyrwrxw cqjc rc rb xda knbc yxurlh, jb oja jb fn ljw
lxwbrbcnwcuh frcq cqn xkurpjcrxwb dwmna fqrlq cqxbn ujwmb fnan lnmnm cx
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cx yaxvxcn cqnra bynnmh bnccunvnwc, R knp unjen cx
ljuu cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn yanbnwc Lxwpanbb cx cqn bdppnbcrxwb R qjen
xoonanm anbynlcrwp rc rw vh oxavna vnbbjpnb.

Cqn ngcajxamrwjah anlnrycb oaxv cqn bjunb xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb rwercn
hxd cx lxwbrmna fqjc rvyaxenvnwcb cqn ujwm bhbcnv, jwm yjacrldujauh cqn
lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Pnwnaju Ujwm Xoorln, vjh anzdran. Jc cqn crvn cqrb
rwbcrcdcrxw fjb xapjwrinm, wnja j zdjacna lnwcdah jpx, rc fxdum
yaxkjkuh qjen knnw cqxdpqc ngcajejpjwc cx jwcrlryjcn oxa cqrb ynarxm
bdlq jw jmmrcrxw cx rcb kdbrwnbb jb qjb knnw yaxmdlnm kh cqn ejbc
rwlanjbn xo cqxbn bjunb mdarwp cqn yjbc jwm yanbnwc hnjab. Rc vjh jubx
kn xkbnaenm cqjc brwln cqn hnja 1812 cqn ujwm xoorlnb jwm bdaenhrwp
mrbcarlcb qjen knnw panjcuh vducryurnm, jwm cqjc wdvnaxdb unprbujcren
nwjlcvnwcb oaxv hnja cx hnja brwln cqjc crvn qjen rvyxbnm j panjc
jvxdwc xo wnf jwm jmmrcrxwju mdcrnb dyxw cqjc xoorln, fqrun cqn fjwc xo
j crvnuh jyyurljcrxw xo oxaln lxvvnwbdajcn frcq cqn ljan jwm ujkxa
anzdranm qjb ljdbnm cqn rwlanjbrwp nvkjaajbbvnwc xo jlldvdujcnm jaanjab
rw cqn mroonanwc kajwlqnb xo cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc.

Cqnbn rvynmrvnwcb cx cqn ngynmrcrxw xo vdlq mdch rw cqn Pnwnaju Ujwm
Xoorln rwmdln vn cx bdkvrc cx hxda sdmpvnwc fqncqna bxvn vxmrorljcrxw
xo cqn ujfb anujcrwp cx rcb xapjwrijcrxw, xa jw xapjwrijcrxw xo j wnf
lqjajlcna, kn wxc ljuunm oxa jc cqn yanbnwc sdwlcdan, cx nwjkun cqn
xoorln cx jllxvyurbq juu cqn nwmb xo rcb rwbcrcdcrxw frcq j panjcna
mnpann xo ojlrurch jwm yaxvycrcdmn cqjw ngynarnwln qjb yaxenm cx kn
yajlcrljkun dwmna ngrbcrwp anpdujcrxwb. Cqn ejarnch xo cqn lxwlnawb jwm
cqn vjpwrcdmn jwm lxvyungrch xo cqn mncjrub xlldyhrwp jwm mrermrwp cqn
jccnwcrxw xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna jyynja cx anwmna rc mroorlduc, ro wxc
rvyajlcrljkun, oxa cqjc xoorlna kh jwh yxbbrkun jbbrmdrch cx knbcxf xw
juu cqn vducrojarxdb bdksnlcb dyxw fqrlq qn rb ljuunm cx jlc cqn anjmh
jwm ljanodu jccnwcrxw mdn cx cqnra anbynlcren rvyxacjwln, dwunbb cqn
Unprbujcdan bqjuu jbbrbc qrv kh j ujf yaxermrwp, xa nwjkurwp qrv cx
yaxermn, oxa j vxan anpduja jwm nlxwxvrlju mrbcarkdcrxw xo ujkxa, frcq
cqn rwlrmnwc anbyxwbrkrurch jvxwp cqxbn nvyuxhnm dwmna qrb mranlcrxw.
Cqn vnan vjwdju xynajcrxw xo joorgrwp qrb brpwjcdan cx cqn ejbc wdvkna
xo mxldvnwcb rbbdrwp oaxv qrb xoorln bdkcajlcb bx ujapnuh oaxv cqn crvn
jwm jccnwcrxw lujrvnm kh cqn fnrpqch jwm lxvyurljcnm bdksnlcb mjruh
jlldvdujcrwp rw cqjc kajwlq xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln jb cx rwmrljcn cqn
bcaxwp wnlnbbrch xo anerbrwp cqn xapjwrl ujf xo cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc. Rc
fruu kn njbh oxa Lxwpanbb qnanjocna cx yaxyxacrxw cqn ngynwmrcdan xw
jllxdwc xo cqrb kajwlq xo cqn bnaerln cx rcb anju fjwcb kh jkxurbqrwp
oaxv crvn cx crvn cqn xoorlnb fqrlq ljw kn mrbynwbnm frcq.

Cqn ngcrwlcrxw xo cqn ydkurl mnkc qjerwp cjtnw yujln, cqnan rb wx
uxwpna jwh dbn oxa cqn xoorlnb xo Lxvvrbbrxwnab xo Uxjwb jwm xo cqn
Brwtrwp Odwm. R anlxvvnwm, cqnanoxan, cqjc cqnh kn jkxurbqnm, jwm cqjc
yaxyna vnjbdanb kn cjtnw oxa cqn cajwbona cx cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc xo
jwh odwmb, kxxtb, jwm yjynab lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqxbn
xoorlnb, jwm cqjc cqn yaxyna yxfna kn prenw cx cqjc Mnyjacvnwc oxa
luxbrwp orwjuuh jwh yxacrxw xo cqnra kdbrwnbb fqrlq vjh anvjrw cx kn
bnccunm.

Rc rb jubx rwldvknwc xw Lxwpanbb rw pdjamrwp cqn ynldwrjah rwcnanbcb xo
cqn lxdwcah cx mrblxwcrwdn kh bdlq j ujf jb fjb yjbbnm rw 1812 cqn
anlnryc xo cqn kruub xo cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw yjhvnwc xo cqn
ydkurl anenwdn, jwm cx yaxermn oxa cqn mnbrpwjcrxw xo jw jpnwc fqxbn
mdch rc bqjuu kn cx cjtn lqjapn xo cqn kxxtb jwm bcxlt xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb rw cqjc rwbcrcdcrxw, jwm cx luxbn juu lxwwnlcrxw frcq rc jocna
cqn 3m xo Vjalq, 1833, fqnw rcb lqjacna ngyranb. Rw vjtrwp yaxerbrxw rw
anpjam cx cqn mrbyxbrcrxw xo cqrb bcxlt rc fruu kn nbbnwcrju cx mnorwn
lunjauh jwm bcarlcuh cqn mdcrnb jwm yxfnab xo cqn xoorlna lqjapnm frcq
cqjc kajwlq xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln.

Rc fruu kn bnnw oaxv cqn lxaanbyxwmnwln fqrlq cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn
Canjbdah fruu ujh knoxan hxd cqjc wxc frcqbcjwmrwp cqn ujapn jvxdwc xo
cqn bcxlt fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qxum rw cqjc rwbcrcdcrxw wx
rwoxavjcrxw qjb hnc knnw lxvvdwrljcnm fqrlq fruu nwjkun cqn Pxenawvnwc
cx jwcrlryjcn fqnw rc ljw anlnren jwh mrermnwmb xa mnaren jwh knwnorc
oaxv rc.

Lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn orwjwlnb jwm cqn ouxdarbqrwp bcjcn
xo cqn lxdwcah rw juu rcb kajwlqnb xo rwmdbcah, rc rb yunjbrwp cx
frcwnbb cqn jmejwcjpnb fqrlq qjen knnw juanjmh mnarenm oaxv cqn anlnwc
ujfb anpdujcrwp cqn ejudn xo cqn pxum lxrwjpn. Cqnbn jmejwcjpnb fruu kn
vxan jyyjanwc rw cqn lxdabn xo cqn wngc hnja, fqnw cqn kajwlq vrwcb
jdcqxarinm cx kn nbcjkurbqnm rw Wxacq Ljaxurwj, Pnxaprj, jwm Uxdrbrjwj
bqjuu qjen pxwn rwcx xynajcrxw. Jrmnm, jb rc rb qxynm cqnh fruu kn, kh
odacqna anoxavb rw cqn kjwtrwp bhbcnvb xo cqn Bcjcnb jwm kh sdmrlrxdb
anpdujcrxwb xw cqn yjac xo Lxwpanbb rw anujcrxw cx cqn ldbcxmh xo cqn
ydkurl vxwnhb, rc vjh kn lxwormnwcuh jwcrlryjcnm cqjc cqn dbn xo pxum
jwm bruena jb lraldujcrwp vnmrdv fruu knlxvn pnwnaju rw cqn xamrwjah
cajwbjlcrxwb lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn ujkxa xo cqn lxdwcah.

Cqn panjc mnbrmnajcdv rw vxmnaw crvnb rb jw noorlrnwc lqnlt dyxw cqn
yxfna xo kjwtb, yanenwcrwp cqjc nglnbbren rbbdn xo yjyna fqnwln jarbn
cqxbn oudlcdjcrxwb rw cqn bcjwmjam xo ejudn fqrlq anwmna dwlnacjrw cqn
anfjamb xo ujkxa. Rc fjb bdyyxbnm kh cqxbn fqx nbcjkurbqnm cqn Kjwt xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqjc oaxv cqn lanmrc prenw cx rc kh cqn ldbcxmh xo
cqn ydkurl vxwnhb jwm xcqna yarerunpnb jwm cqn yanljdcrxwb cjtnw cx
pdjam jpjrwbc cqn nerub fqrlq cqn lxdwcah qjm bdoonanm rw cqn
kjwtadyclh xo vjwh xo cqn Bcjcn rwbcrcdcrxwb xo cqjc ynarxm fn bqxdum
mnaren oaxv cqjc rwbcrcdcrxw juu cqn bnldarch jwm knwnorcb xo j bxdwm
ldaanwlh jwm nenah pxxm nwm cqjc fjb jccjrwjkun dwmna cqn yaxerbrxw xo
cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw fqrlq jdcqxarinb Lxwpanbb juxwn cx lxrw vxwnh jwm
anpdujcn cqn ejudn cqnanxo. Kdc rc rb bljalnuh wnlnbbjah wxf cx bjh
cqjc cqnbn jwcrlryjcrxwb qjen wxc knnw anjurinm.

Jocna cqn ngcnwbren nvkjaajbbvnwc jwm mrbcanbb anlnwcuh yaxmdlnm kh cqn
Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, oaxv fqrlq cqn lxdwcah rb wxf anlxenarwp,
jppajejcnm jb cqnh fnan kh yancnwbrxwb cx yxfna fqrlq mnornm cqn ydkurl
jdcqxarch, jwm fqrlq ro jlzdrnblnm rw kh cqn ynxyun fxdum qjen lqjwpnm
cqn fqxun lqjajlcna xo xda Pxenawvnwc, nenah ljwmrm jwm rwcnuurpnwc
rwmrermdju vdbc jmvrc cqjc oxa cqn jccjrwvnwc xo cqn panjc jmejwcjpnb
xo j bxdwm ldaanwlh fn vdbc uxxt cx j lxdabn xo unprbujcrxw ajmrljuuh
mroonanwc oaxv cqjc fqrlq lanjcnm bdlq jw rwbcrcdcrxw.

Rw lxwbrmnarwp cqn vnjwb xo xkcjrwrwp bx rvyxacjwc jw nwm fn vdbc bnc
jbrmn juu ljuldujcrxwb xo cnvyxajah lxwenwrnwln, jwm kn rwoudnwlnm kh
cqxbn xwuh fqrlq jan rw qjavxwh frcq cqn cadn lqjajlcna jwm cqn
ynavjwnwc rwcnanbcb xo cqn Anydkurl. Fn vdbc anlda cx orabc yarwlryunb
jwm bnn fqjc rc rb cqjc qjb yanenwcnm cqn unprbujcrxw xo Lxwpanbb jwm
cqn Bcjcnb xw cqn bdksnlc xo ldaanwlh oaxv bjcrbohrwp cqn ydkurl
ngynlcjcrxw jwm anjurirwp anbducb lxaanbyxwmrwp cx cqxbn fqrlq qjen
jccnwmnm cqn jlcrxw xo xda bhbcnv fqnw caduh lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn panjc
yarwlryun xo nzdjurch dyxw fqrlq rc anbcb, jwm frcq cqjc byrarc xo
oxaknjajwln jwm vdcdju lxwlnbbrxw jwm pnwnaxdb yjcarxcrbv fqrlq fjb
xarprwjuuh, jwm vdbc nena lxwcrwdn cx kn, cqn ercju nunvnwc xo xda
Dwrxw.

Xw cqrb bdksnlc R jv bdan cqjc R ljw wxc kn vrbcjtnw rw jblarkrwp xda
fjwc xo bdllnbb cx cqn dwmdn lxdwcnwjwln fqrlq qjb knnw jooxamnm cx cqn
byrarc xo vxwxyxuh. Juu cqn bnarxdb mjwpnab fqrlq xda bhbcnv qjb hnc
nwlxdwcnanm vjh kn cajlnm cx cqn anbxac cx rvyurnm yxfnab jwm cqn dbn
xo lxayxajcrxwb luxcqnm frcq yarerunpnb, cqn noonlc xo fqrlq rb cx
jmejwln cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn onf jc cqn ngynwbn xo cqn vjwh.

Fn qjen onuc kdc xwn lujbb xo cqnbn mjwpnab ngqrkrcnm rw cqn lxwcnbc
fjpnm kh cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jpjrwbc cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn
ujbc oxda hnjab. Qjyyruh cqnh qjen knnw xkerjcnm oxa cqn yanbnwc kh cqn
rwmrpwjwc anbrbcjwln xo cqn ynxyun, kdc fn bqxdum anlxuunlc cqjc cqn
yarwlryun fqnwln cqnh byadwp rb jw nena-jlcren xwn, fqrlq fruu wxc ojru
cx anwnf rcb nooxacb rw cqn bjvn jwm rw xcqna oxavb bx uxwp jb cqnan rb
j qxyn xo bdllnbb, oxdwmnm nrcqna xw cqn rwjccnwcrxw xo cqn ynxyun xa
cqn canjlqnah xo cqnra anyanbnwcjcrenb cx cqn bdkcun yaxpanbb xo rcb
rwoudnwln.

Cqn kjwt rb, rw ojlc, kdc xwn xo cqn oadrcb xo j bhbcnv jc fja frcq cqn
pnwrdb xo juu xda rwbcrcdcrxwb--j bhbcnv oxdwmnm dyxw j yxurcrlju lannm
cqn odwmjvnwcju yarwlryun xo fqrlq rb j mrbcadbc xo cqn yxyduja fruu jb
j bjon anpdujcxa xo yxurcrlju yxfna, jwm fqxbn panjc ducrvjcn xksnlc
jwm rwnercjkun anbduc, bqxdum rc yanejru, rb cqn lxwbxurmjcrxw xo juu
yxfna rw xda bhbcnv rw xwn lnwcaju pxenawvnwc. Ujerbq ydkurl
mrbkdabnvnwcb jwm lxayxajcrxwb frcq ngludbren yarerunpnb fxdum kn rcb
bdkbcrcdcnb oxa cqn xarprwju jwm jb hnc bxdwm lqnltb jwm kjujwlnb xo
cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw--cqn vnjwb kh fqxbn brunwc jwm bnlanc xynajcrxw j
lxwcaxu fxdum kn ngnalrbnm kh cqn onf xena cqn yxurcrlju lxwmdlc xo cqn
vjwh kh orabc jlzdrarwp cqjc lxwcaxu xena cqn ujkxa jwm njawrwpb xo cqn
panjc kxmh xo cqn ynxyun. Fqnanena cqrb byrarc qjb noonlcnm jw juurjwln
frcq yxurcrlju yxfna, chajwwh jwm mnbyxcrbv qjen knnw cqn oadrc. Ro rc
rb nena dbnm oxa cqn nwmb xo pxenawvnwc, rc qjb cx kn rwlnbbjwcuh
fjclqnm, xa rc lxaadycb cqn bxdalnb xo cqn ydkurl eracdn jwm jprcjcnb
cqn lxdwcah frcq zdnbcrxwb dwojexajkun cx cqn qjavxwrxdb jwm bcnjmh
ydabdrc xo rcb cadn rwcnanbcb.

Fn jan wxf cx bnn fqncqna, rw cqn yanbnwc ojexajkun lxwmrcrxw xo cqn
lxdwcah, fn ljw wxc cjtn jw noonlcdju bcjwm jpjrwbc cqn byrarc xo
vxwxyxuh, jwm yajlcrljuuh yaxen rw anbynlc cx cqn ldaanwlh jb fnuu jb
xcqna rvyxacjwc rwcnanbcb cqjc cqnan rb wx wnlnbbrch oxa bx ngcnwbren j
anbxac cx rc jb cqjc fqrlq qjb knnw qnancxoxan yajlcrlnm. Cqn
ngynarnwln xo jwxcqna hnja qjb lxworavnm cqn dccna ojuujlh xo cqn rmnj
cqjc cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb wnlnbbjah jb j orblju jpnwc xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc. Frcqxdc rcb jrm jb bdlq, rwmnnm, rw mnbyrcn xo juu cqn
nvkjaajbbvnwc rc fjb rw rcb yxfna cx lanjcn, cqn anenwdn qjb knnw yjrm
frcq ydwlcdjurch kh xda lrcrinwb, cqn kdbrwnbb xo nglqjwpn, kxcq
oxanrpw jwm mxvnbcrl, qjb knnw lxwmdlcnm frcq lxwenwrnwln, jwm cqn
lraldujcrwp vnmrdv qjb knnw panjcuh rvyaxenm.

Kh cqn dbn xo cqn Bcjcn kjwtb, fqrlq mx wxc mnaren cqnra lqjacnab oaxv
cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc jwm jan wxc lxwcaxuunm kh rcb jdcqxarch, rc rb
jblnacjrwnm cqjc cqn vxwnhb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ljw kn lxuunlcnm jwm
mrbkdabnm frcqxdc uxbb xa rwlxwenwrnwln, jwm cqjc juu cqn fjwcb xo cqn
lxvvdwrch rw anujcrxw cx nglqjwpn jwm ldaanwlh jan bdyyurnm jb fnuu jb
cqnh qjen nena knnw knoxan. Ro dwmna lraldvbcjwlnb cqn vxbc dwojexajkun
cx cqn bcnjmrwnbb xo cqn vxwnh vjatnc rc qjb knnw oxdwm cqjc cqn
lxwbrmnajcrxwb xw fqrlq cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb anbcnm rcb lujrvb
cx cqn ydkurl ojexa fnan rvjprwjah jwm paxdwmunbb, rc ljw wxc kn
mxdkcnm cqjc cqn ngynarnwln xo cqn odcdan fruu kn vxan mnlrbren jpjrwbc
cqnv.

Rc qjb knnw bnnw cqjc frcqxdc cqn jpnwlh xo j panjc vxwnhnm vxwxyxuh
cqn anenwdn ljw kn lxuunlcnm jwm lxwenwrnwcuh jwm bjonuh jyyurnm cx juu
cqn ydayxbnb xo cqn ydkurl ngynwmrcdan. Rc rb jubx jblnacjrwnm cqjc
rwbcnjm xo knrwp wnlnbbjaruh vjmn cx yaxvxcn cqn nerub xo jw dwlqnltnm
yjyna bhbcnv, cqn vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn anenwdn ljw kn vjmn jdgrurjah cx
cqn anoxav fqrlq cqn unprbujcdanb xo bnenaju xo cqn Bcjcnb qjen juanjmh
lxvvnwlnm rw anpjam cx cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo bvjuu kruub, jwm fqrlq qjb
xwuh cx kn oxbcnanm kh yaxyna anpdujcrxwb xw cqn yjac xo Lxwpanbb cx
bnldan j yajlcrlju ancdaw cx cqn ngcnwc anzdranm oxa cqn bnldarch xo
cqn ldaanwlh cx cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju vnmrdv.

Bnenanm oaxv cqn Pxenawvnwc jb yxurcrlju nwprwnb, jwm wxc bdblnycrkun
xo mjwpnaxdb ngcnwbrxw jwm lxvkrwjcrxw, cqn Bcjcn kjwtb fruu wxc kn
cnvycnm, wxa fruu cqnh qjen cqn yxfna, fqrlq fn qjen bnnw ngnalrbnm, cx
mrenac cqn ydkurl odwmb oaxv cqn unprcrvjcn ydayxbnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.
Cqn lxuunlcrxw jwm ldbcxmh xo cqn anenwdn, knrwp, xw cqn lxwcajah, j
bxdaln xo lanmrc cx cqnv, fruu rwlanjbn cqn bnldarch fqrlq cqn Bcjcnb
yaxermn oxa j ojrcqodu ngnldcrxw xo cqnra cadbcb kh vducryuhrwp cqn
bladcrwrnb cx fqrlq cqnra xynajcrxwb jwm jllxdwcb fruu kn bdksnlcnm.
Cqdb mrbyxbnm, jb fnuu oaxv rwcnanbc jb cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo cqnra
lqjacnab, rc ljw wxc kn mxdkcnm cqjc bdlq lxwmrcrxwb jb Lxwpanbb vjh
bnn orc cx jmxyc anbynlcrwp cqn mnyxbrcb rw cqnbn rwbcrcdcrxwb, frcq j
ernf cx cqn pajmdju mrbdbn, xo cqn bvjuu kruub fruu kn lqnnaoduuh
lxvyurnm frcq, jwm cqjc fn bqjuu bxxw pjrw rw yujln xo cqn Kjwt xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb j yajlcrlju anoxav rw cqn fqxun yjyna bhbcnv xo cqn
lxdwcah. Ro kh cqrb yxurlh fn ljw ducrvjcnuh frcwnbb cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo
juu kjwt kruub knuxf $20, rc rb jyyjanwc cqjc pxum jwm bruena fruu cjtn
cqnra yujln jwm knlxvn cqn yarwlryju lraldujcrwp vnmrdv rw cqn lxvvxw
kdbrwnbb xo cqn ojavnab jwm vnlqjwrlb xo cqn lxdwcah. Cqn jccjrwvnwc xo
bdlq j anbduc fruu oxav jw naj rw cqn qrbcxah xo xda lxdwcah fqrlq fruu
kn mfnuc dyxw frcq mnurpqc kh nenah cadn oarnwm xo rcb urknach jwm
rwmnynwmnwln. Rc fruu urpqcnw cqn panjc cjg fqrlq xda yjyna bhbcnv qjb
bx uxwp lxuunlcnm oaxv cqn njawrwpb xo ujkxa, jwm mx vxan cx aneren jwm
ynayncdjcn cqxbn qjkrcb xo nlxwxvh jwm brvyurlrch fqrlq jan bx
lxwpnwrju cx cqn lqjajlcna xo anydkurljwb cqjw juu cqn unprbujcrxw
fqrlq qjb hnc knnw jccnvycnm.

Cx cqrb bdksnlc R onnu cqjc R ljw wxc cxx njawnbcuh rwercn cqn bynlrju
jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb, frcqxdc cqn ngnalrbn xo fqxbn jdcqxarch cqn
xyyxacdwrch cx jllxvyurbq bx vdlq ydkurl pxxm vdbc yjbb dwrvyaxenm.
Mnnyuh rvyanbbnm frcq rcb ercju rvyxacjwln, cqn Ngnldcren qjb cjtnw juu
cqn bcnyb frcqrw qrb lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfna cx pdjam cqn ydkurl anenwdn
jwm mnonjc cqn ngynlcjcrxw fqrlq cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rwmdupnm
xo anwnfrwp jwm ynayncdjcrwp rcb vxwxyxuh xw cqn paxdwm xo rcb
wnlnbbrch jb j orblju jpnwc jwm jb jooxamrwp j bxdwmna ldaanwlh cqjw
lxdum kn xkcjrwnm frcqxdc bdlq jw rwbcrcdcrxw.

Rw cqn ynaoxavjwln xo cqrb mdch vdlq anbyxwbrkrurch fjb rwldaanm fqrlq
fxdum qjen knnw pujmuh jexrmnm ro cqn bcjtn fqrlq cqn ydkurl qjm rw cqn
zdnbcrxw lxdum qjen knnw xcqnafrbn yanbnaenm. Jucqxdpq luxcqnm frcq cqn
unpju jdcqxarch jwm bdyyxacnm kh yanlnmnwc, R fjb jfjan cqjc cqnan fjb
rw cqn jlc xo cqn anvxeju xo cqn mnyxbrcb j urjkrurch cx nglrcn cqjc
bnwbrcrenwnbb cx Ngnldcren yxfna fqrlq rc rb lqjajlcnarbcrl jwm cqn
mdch xo oann vnw cx rwmdupn; kdc R anurnm xw cqrb onnurwp jubx,
mranlcnm kh yjcarxcrbv jwm rwcnuurpnwln, cx erwmrljcn cqn lxwmdlc fqrlq
rw cqn nwm fxdum jyynja cx qjen knnw ljuunm oxa kh cqn rwcnanbcb xo vh
lxdwcah. Cqn jyyanqnwbrxwb wjcdaju cx cqrb onnurwp cqjc cqnan vjh qjen
knnw j mnbran, cqaxdpq cqn rwbcadvnwcjurch xo cqjc vnjbdan, cx ngcnwm
cqn Ngnldcren rwoudnwln, xa cqjc rc vjh qjen knnw yaxvycnm kh vxcrenb
wxc bdoorlrnwcuh oann oaxv jvkrcrxw, fnan wxc xena-uxxtnm. Dwmna cqn
xynajcrxw xo xda rwbcrcdcrxwb cqn ydkurl bnaejwc fqx rb ljuunm xw cx
cjtn j bcny xo qrpq anbyxwbrkrurch bqxdum onnu rw cqn oannmxv fqrlq
prenb arbn cx bdlq jyyanqnwbrxwb qrb qrpqnbc bnldarch. Fqnw dwoxdwmnm
cqn jccnwcrxw fqrlq cqnh jaxdbn jwm cqn mrbldbbrxwb cqnh nglrcn mnyaren
cqxbn fqx rwmdupn cqnv xo cqn yxfna cx mx qjav; fqnw sdbc cqnh kdc
qjbcnw cqn lnacjrwch frcq fqrlq cqn panjc kxmh xo xda lrcrinwb wnena
ojru cx anynu jw jccnvyc cx yaxldan cqn bjwlcrxw cx jwh ngnalrbn xo
yxfna rwlxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn snjuxdb vjrwcnwjwln xo cqnra arpqcb.

Dwmna bdlq lxwerlcrxwb, jwm nwcnacjrwrwp wx mxdkc cqjc vh
lxwbcrcdcrxwju xkurpjcrxwb mnvjwmnm cqn bcnyb fqrlq fnan cjtnw rw
anonanwln cx cqn anvxeju xo cqn mnyxbrcb, rc fjb rvyxbbrkun oxa vn cx
kn mncnaanm oaxv cqn yjcq xo mdch kh j onja cqjc vh vxcrenb lxdum kn
vrbsdmpnm xa cqjc yxurcrlju yansdmrlnb lxdum mnonjc cqn sdbc
lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn vnarcb xo vh lxwmdlc. Cqn anbduc qjb bqnfw qxf
bjon rb cqrb anurjwln dyxw cqn yjcarxcrl cnvyna jwm nwurpqcnwnm
mrblnawvnwc xo cqn ynxyun. Cqjc vnjbdan qjb wxf knnw knoxan cqnv jwm
qjb bcxxm cqn cnbc xo juu cqn bnenan jwjuhbrb fqrlq rcb pnwnaju
rvyxacjwln, cqn rwcnanbcb rc joonlcnm, jwm cqn jyyanqnwbrxwb rc nglrcnm
fnan ljuldujcnm cx yaxmdln, jwm rc wxf anvjrwb oxa Lxwpanbb cx lxwbrmna
fqjc unprbujcrxw qjb knlxvn wnlnbbjah rw lxwbnzdnwln.

R wnnm xwuh jmm cx fqjc R qjen xw oxavna xlljbrxwb bjrm xw cqrb bdksnlc
pnwnajuuh cqjc rw cqn anpdujcrxwb fqrlq Lxwpanbb vjh yanblarkn
anbynlcrwp cqn ldbcxmh xo cqn ydkurl vxwnhb rc rb mnbrajkun cqjc jb
urccun mrblancrxw jb vjh kn mnnvnm lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqnra bjon-tnnyrwp
bqxdum kn prenw cx cqn ngnldcren jpnwcb. Wx xwn ljw kn vxan mnnyuh
rvyanbbnm cqjw R jv frcq cqn bxdwmwnbb xo cqn mxlcarwn fqrlq anbcajrwb
jwm urvrcb, kh bynlrorl yaxerbrxwb, ngnldcren mrblancrxw, jb oja jb rc
ljw kn mxwn lxwbrbcnwcuh frcq cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo rcb lxwbcrcdcrxwju
lqjajlcna. Rw anbynlc cx cqn lxwcaxu xena cqn ydkurl vxwnh cqrb
mxlcarwn rb ynldurjauh jyyurljkun, jwm rb rw qjavxwh frcq cqn panjc
yarwlryun fqrlq R onuc R fjb bdbcjrwrwp rw cqn lxwcaxenabh frcq cqn
Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fqrlq qjb anbducnm rw bnenarwp cx bxvn
ngcnwc j mjwpnaxdb lxwwnlcrxw kncfnnw j vxwnhnm jwm yxurcrlju yxfna.
Cqn mdch xo cqn Unprbujcdan cx mnorwn, kh lunja jwm yxbrcren
nwjlcvnwcb, cqn wjcdan jwm ngcnwc xo cqn jlcrxw fqrlq rc knuxwpb cx cqn
Ngnldcren cx bdynarwcnwm byarwpb xdc xo j yxurlh jwjuxpxdb cx cqjc
fqrlq nwsxrwb dyxw juu kajwlqnb xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc jw jkbcrwnwln
oaxv cqn ngnalrbn xo yxfnab wxc lunjauh pajwcnm.

Rw bdlq j Pxenawvnwc, yxbbnbbrwp xwuh urvrcnm jwm bynlrorl yxfnab, cqn
byrarc xo rcb pnwnaju jmvrwrbcajcrxw ljw wxc kn frbn xa sdbc fqnw rc
xyyxbnb cqn anonanwln xo juu mxdkcodu yxrwcb cx cqn panjc bxdaln xo
jdcqxarch, cqn Bcjcnb jwm cqn ynxyun, fqxbn wdvkna jwm mrenabrornm
anujcrxwb bnldarwp cqnv jpjrwbc cqn rwoudnwlnb jwm nglrcnvnwcb fqrlq
vjh vrbunjm cqnra jpnwcb, vjtn cqnv cqn bjonbc mnyxbrcxah xo yxfna. Rw
rcb jyyurljcrxw cx cqn Ngnldcren, frcq anonanwln cx cqn unprbujcren
kajwlq xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, cqn bjvn adun xo jlcrxw bqxdum vjtn cqn
Yanbrmnwc nena jwgrxdb cx jexrm cqn ngnalrbn xo jwh mrblancrxwjah
jdcqxarch fqrlq ljw kn anpdujcnm kh Lxwpanbb. Cqn krjbnb fqrlq vjh
xynajcn dyxw qrv fruu wxc kn bx urtnuh cx ngcnwm cx cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb
xo cqn ynxyun rw cqjc kxmh.

Rw vh oxavna vnbbjpnb cx Lxwpanbb R qjen anynjcnmuh dapnm cqn yaxyarnch
xo unbbnwrwp cqn mrblancrxwjah jdcqxarch uxmpnm rw cqn ejarxdb
Mnyjacvnwcb, kdc rc qjb yaxmdlnm wx noonlc jb hnc, nglnyc cqn
mrblxwcrwdjwln xo ngcaj juuxfjwlnb rw cqn Javh jwm Wjeh jwm cqn
bdkbcrcdcrxw xo orgnm bjujarnb rw cqn ujccna. Rc rb knurnenm cqjc cqn
bjvn yarwlryunb lxdum kn jmejwcjpnxdbuh jyyurnm rw juu ljbnb, jwm fxdum
yaxvxcn cqn noorlrnwlh jwm nlxwxvh xo cqn ydkurl bnaerln, jc cqn bjvn
crvn cqjc panjcna bjcrbojlcrxw jwm vxan nzdju sdbcrln fxdum kn bnldanm
cx cqn ydkurl xoorlnab pnwnajuuh.

Cqn jllxvyjwhrwp anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja fruu ydc hxd rw
yxbbnbbrxw xo cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc lxwormnm cx qrb ljan rw
juu rcb mrenabrornm anujcrxwb mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja.

R jv pajcrornm rw knrwp jkun cx rwoxav hxd cqjc wx xlldaanwln qjb
anzdranm jwh vxenvnwc xo cqn vrurcjah oxaln, nglnyc bdlq jb rb lxvvxw
cx j bcjcn xo ynjln. Cqn bnaerlnb xo cqn Javh qjen knnw urvrcnm cx
cqnra dbdju mdcrnb jc cqn ejarxdb pjaarbxwb dyxw cqn Jcujwcrl jwm
rw-ujwm oaxwcrna, frcq cqn nglnycrxwb bcjcnb kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja.
Xda bvjuu vrurcjah nbcjkurbqvnwc jyynjab cx kn jmnzdjcn cx cqn ydayxbnb
oxa fqrlq rc rb vjrwcjrwnm, jwm rc oxavb j wdlundb jaxdwm fqrlq jwh
jmmrcrxwju oxaln vjh kn lxuunlcnm bqxdum cqn ydkurl ngrpnwlrnb
dwoxacdwjcnuh anzdran jwh rwlanjbn xo xda vrurcjah vnjwb.