Onuuxf Lrcrinwb xo cqn Bnwjcn jwm xo cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Xw hxda jbbnvkurwp cx ynaoxav cqn qrpq cadbcb fqrlq cqn ynxyun xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen lxwormnm cx hxd, xo unprbujcrwp oxa cqnra lxvvxw
fnuojan, rc prenb vn yunjbdan cx lxwpajcdujcn hxd dyxw cqn qjyyh
lxwmrcrxw xo xda knuxenm lxdwcah. Kh cqn ojexa xo Mrerwn Yaxermnwln
qnjucq rb jpjrw anbcxanm cx db, ynjln anrpwb frcqrw xda kxamnab,
jkdwmjwln laxfwb cqn ujkxab xo xda ornumb, lxvvnaln jwm mxvnbcrl
rwmdbcah ouxdarbq jwm rwlanjbn, jwm rwmrermdju qjyyrwnbb anfjamb cqn
yarejcn eracdn jwm nwcnayarbn xo xda lrcrinwb.

Xda lxwmrcrxw jkaxjm rb wx unbb qxwxajkun cqjw rc rb yaxbynaxdb jc
qxvn. Bnntrwp wxcqrwp cqjc rb wxc arpqc jwm mncnavrwnm cx bdkvrc cx
wxcqrwp cqjc rb faxwp, kdc mnbrarwp qxwnbc oarnwmbqryb jwm urknaju
rwcnalxdabn frcq juu wjcrxwb, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen pjrwnm cqaxdpqxdc
cqn fxaum cqn lxwormnwln jwm anbynlc fqrlq jan mdn cx j yxurlh bx sdbc
jwm bx lxwpnwrju cx cqn lqjajlcna xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun jwm cx cqn
byrarc xo cqnra rwbcrcdcrxwb.

Rw karwprwp cx hxda wxcrln cqn yjacrlduja bcjcn xo xda oxanrpw joojrab,
rc jooxamb vn qrpq pajcrorljcrxw cx rwoxav hxd cqjc cqnh jan rw j
lxwmrcrxw fqrlq yaxvrbnb cqn lxwcrwdjwln xo oarnwmbqry frcq juu
wjcrxwb.

Frcq Panjc Karcjrw cqn rwcnanbcrwp zdnbcrxw xo xda Wxacq Njbc kxdwmjah
anvjrwb bcruu dwmnlrmnm. J wnpxcrjcrxw, qxfnena, dyxw cqjc bdksnlc qjb
knnw anwnfnm brwln cqn luxbn xo cqn ujbc Lxwpanbb, jwm j yaxyxbrcrxw
qjb knnw bdkvrccnm cx cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc frcq cqn ernf xo
nbcjkurbqrwp, rw lxwoxavrch frcq cqn anbxudcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn, cqn urwn
mnbrpwjcnm kh cqn canjch xo 1783. Cqxdpq wx mnorwrcren jwbfna qjb knnw
anlnrenm, rc vjh kn mjruh uxxtnm oxa, jwm R nwcnacjrw j qxyn cqjc cqn
xenacdan vjh ducrvjcnuh unjm cx j bjcrbojlcxah jmsdbcvnwc xo cqrb
rvyxacjwc vjccna.

R qjen cqn bjcrbojlcrxw cx rwoxav hxd cqjc j wnpxcrjcrxw fqrlq, kh
mnbran xo cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb, fjb xynwnm bxvn hnjab jpx frcq
cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc, oxa cqn nanlcrxw xo urpqc qxdbnb xw cqn
Kjqjvjb, qjb knnw bdllnbbodu. Cqxbn fxatb, fqnw lxvyuncnm, cxpncqna
frcq cqxbn fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen lxwbcadlcnm xw cqn fnbcnaw brmn
xo cqn Pduo xo Ouxarmj, fruu lxwcarkdcn nbbnwcrjuuh cx cqn bjonch xo
wjerpjcrxw rw cqjc bnj. Cqrb sxrwc yjacrlryjcrxw rw nbcjkurbqvnwcb
rwcnanbcrwp cx qdvjwrch jwm knwnorlrju cx lxvvnaln rb fxacqh xo cfx
nwurpqcnwnm wjcrxwb, jwm rwmrljcnb onnurwpb fqrlq ljw wxc ojru cx qjen
j qjyyh rwoudnwln dyxw cqnra yxurcrlju anujcrxwb. Rc rb pajcrohrwp cx
cqn oarnwmb xo kxcq cx ynalnren cqjc cqn rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw cqn cfx
ynxyun rb knlxvrwp mjruh vxan ngcnwbren, jwm cqjc bnwcrvnwcb xo vdcdju
pxxm fruu qjen paxfw dy knorccrwp cqnra lxvvxw xarprw jwm sdbcrohrwp
cqn qxyn cqjc kh frbn lxdwbnub xw njlq brmn wxc xwuh dwbnccunm
zdnbcrxwb vjh kn bjcrbojlcxaruh cnavrwjcnm, kdc wnf ljdbnb xo
vrbdwmnabcjwmrwp yanenwcnm.

Wxc frcqbcjwmrwp cqjc R lxwcrwdn cx anlnren cqn vxbc jvrljkun
jbbdajwlnb oaxv cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Oajwln, jwm cqjc rw juu xcqna
anbynlcb cqn vxbc oarnwmuh anujcrxwb ngrbc kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jwm cqjc Pxenawvnwc, rc rb cx kn anpanccnm cqjc cqn bcrydujcrxwb xo cqn
lxwenwcrxw lxwludmnm xw Sduh 4cq, 1831 anvjrw rw bxvn rvyxacjwc yjacb
dwoduoruunm.

Kh cqn bnlxwm jacrlun xo cqjc lxwenwcrxw rc fjb bcrydujcnm cqjc cqn bdv
yjhjkun cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb bqxdum kn yjrm jc Yjarb, rw brg jwwdju
rwbcjuuvnwcb, rwcx cqn qjwmb xo bdlq ynabxw xa ynabxwb jb bqxdum kn
jdcqxarinm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx anlnren rc, jwm kh
cqn bjvn jacrlun cqn orabc rwbcjuuvnwc fjb yjhjkun xw Onkadjah 2m,
1833. Kh cqn jlc xo Lxwpanbb xo Sduh 13cq, 1832 rc fjb vjmn cqn mdch xo
cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah cx ljdbn cqn bnenaju rwbcjuuvnwcb, frcq
cqn rwcnanbc cqnanxw, cx kn anlnrenm oaxv cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc jwm
cajwbonaanm cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw bdlq vjwwna jb qn vjh mnnv knbc;
jwm kh cqn bjvn jlc xo Lxwpanbb cqn bcrydujcrxwb xw cqn yjac xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw cqn lxwenwcrxw fnan rw juu anbynlcb oduoruunm. Wxc
mxdkcrwp cqjc j canjch cqdb vjmn jwm ajcrornm kh cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb,
jwm ojrcqoduuh ngnldcnm kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fxdum kn yaxvycuh
lxvyurnm frcq kh cqn xcqna yjach, jwm mnbrarwp cx jexrm cqn arbt jwm
ngynwbn xo rwcnavnmrjcn jpnwlrnb, cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah mnnvnm
rc jmerbjkun cx anlnren jwm cajwbona cqn orabc rwbcjuuvnwc kh vnjwb xo
j majoc dyxw cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcna xo orwjwln.

J majoc oxa cqrb ydayxbn fjb jllxamrwpuh majfw rw ojexa xo cqn ljbqrna
xo cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa cqn jvxdwc jlladrwp cx cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb xdc xo cqn orabc rwbcjuuvnwc, jwm cqn rwcnanbc yjhjkun frcq rc.
Cqrb kruu fjb wxc majfw jc Fjbqrwpcxw dwcru oren mjhb jocna cqn
rwbcjuuvnwc fjb yjhjkun jc Yjarb, jwm fjb jllxvyjwrnm kh j bynlrju
jdcqxarch oaxv cqn Yanbrmnwc jdcqxarirwp cqn ljbqrna xa qrb jbbrpwb cx
anlnren cqn jvxdwc. Cqn vxmn cqdb jmxycnm xo anlnrerwp cqn rwbcjuuvnwc
fjb xoorlrjuuh vjmn twxfw cx cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc kh cqn Jvnarljw
lqjapn m'joojranb jc Yjarb, ydabdjwc cx rwbcadlcrxwb oaxv cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn. Cqn kruu, qxfnena, cqxdpq wxc yanbnwcnm oxa
yjhvnwc dwcru Vjalq 23m, 1833, fjb wxc yjrm, jwm oxa cqn anjbxw
jbbrpwnm kh cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcna xo orwjwln cqjc wx jyyaxyarjcrxw qjm
knnw vjmn kh cqn Oanwlq Lqjvknab. Rc rb wxc twxfw cx vn cqjc dy cx cqjc
ynarxm jwh jyyaxyarjcrxw qjm knnw anzdranm xo cqn Lqjvknab, jwm
jucqxdpq j lxvvdwrljcrxw fjb bdkbnzdnwcuh vjmn cx cqn Lqjvknab kh
mranlcrxw xo cqn Trwp, anlxvvnwmrwp cqjc cqn wnlnbbjah yaxerbrxw bqxdum
kn vjmn oxa ljaahrwp cqn lxwenwcrxw rwcx noonlc, rc fjb jc jw jmejwlnm
ynarxm xo cqn bnbbrxw, jwm cqn bdksnlc fjb orwjuuh yxbcyxwnm dwcru cqn
wngc vnncrwp xo cqn Lqjvknab.

Wxc frcqbcjwmrwp rc qjb knnw bdyyxbnm kh cqn Oanwlq vrwrbcah cqjc cqn
orwjwlrju bcrydujcrxwb xo cqn canjch ljw wxc kn ljaarnm rwcx noonlc
frcqxdc jw jyyaxyarjcrxw kh cqn Lqjvknab, rc jyynjab cx vn cx kn wxc
xwuh lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn lqjajlcna xo Oajwln, kdc mdn cx cqn lqjajlcna
xo kxcq Pxenawvnwcb, jb fnuu jb cx cqn arpqcb xo xda lrcrinwb, cx canjc
cqn lxwenwcrxw, vjmn jwm ajcrornm rw yaxyna oxav, jb yunmprwp cqn pxxm
ojrcq xo cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc oxa rcb ngnldcrxw, jwm jb rvyxbrwp dyxw
njlq mnyjacvnwc jw xkurpjcrxw cx oduoruu rc; jwm R qjen anlnrenm
jbbdajwlnb cqaxdpq xda lqjapn m'joojranb jc Yjarb jwm cqn Oanwlq
vrwrbcna yunwryxcnwcrjah jc Fjbqrwpcxw, jwm vxan anlnwcuh cqaxdpq cqn
vrwrbcna xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jc Yjarb, cqjc cqn mnujh qjb wxc
yaxlnnmnm oaxv jwh rwmrbyxbrcrxw xw cqn yjac xo cqn Trwp jwm qrb
vrwrbcnab cx oduoruu cqnra canjch, jwm cqjc vnjbdanb fruu kn yanbnwcnm
jc cqn wngc vnncrwp xo cqn Lqjvknab, jwm frcq j anjbxwjkun qxyn xo
bdllnbb, cx xkcjrw cqn wnlnbbjah jyyaxyarjcrxw.

Rc rb wnlnbbjah cx bcjcn, qxfnena, cqjc cqn mxldvnwcb, nglnyc lnacjrw
urbcb xo enbbnub ljycdanm, lxwmnvwnm, xa kdawc jc bnj, yaxyna cx
ojlrurcjcn cqn ngjvrwjcrxw jwm urzdrmjcrxw xo cqn anlujvjcrxwb
lxvyarbnm rw cqn bcrydujcrxwb xo cqn lxwenwcrxw, jwm fqrlq kh cqn 6cq
jacrlun Oajwln nwpjpnm cx lxvvdwrljcn cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kh cqn
rwcnavnmrjah xo cqn unpjcrxw, cqxdpq anynjcnmuh jyyurnm oxa kh cqn
Jvnarljw lqjapn m'joojranb dwmna rwbcadlcrxwb oaxv cqrb Pxenawvnwc,
qjen wxc hnc knnw lxvvdwrljcnm; jwm cqrb mnujh, rc rb jyyanqnwmnm, fruu
wnlnbbjaruh yanenwc cqn lxvyuncrxw xo cqn mdcrnb jbbrpwnm cx cqn
lxvvrbbrxwnab frcqrw cqn crvn jc yanbnwc yanblarknm kh ujf.

Cqn anjbxwb oxa mnujhrwp cx lxvvdwrljcn cqnbn mxldvnwcb qjen wxc knnw
ngyurlrcuh bcjcnm, jwm cqrb rb cqn vxan cx kn anpanccnm jb rc rb wxc
dwmnabcxxm cqjc cqn rwcnayxbrcrxw xo cqn Lqjvknab rb rw jwh vjwwna
anzdranm oxa cqn mnurenah xo cqxbn yjynab.

Dwmna cqnbn lraldvbcjwlnb, rw j ljbn bx rvyxacjwc cx cqn rwcnanbcb xo
xda lrcrinwb jwm cx cqn lqjajlcna xo xda lxdwcah, jwm dwmna
mrbjyyxrwcvnwcb bx dwngynlcnm, R mnnvnm rc vh mdch, qxfnena R vrpqc
anbynlc cqn pnwnaju jbbdajwlnb cx fqrlq R qjen jmenacnm, wx uxwpna cx
mnujh cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo j vrwrbcna yunwryxcnwcrjah cx Yjarb, kdc cx
mrbyjclq qrv rw bnjbxw cx lxvvdwrljcn cqn anbduc xo qrb jyyurljcrxw cx
cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc jc jw njauh ynarxm xo hxda bnbbrxw. R jllxamrwpuh
jyyxrwcnm j mrbcrwpdrbqnm lrcrinw oxa cqrb ydayxbn, fqx yaxlnnmnm xw
qrb vrbbrxw rw Jdpdbc ujbc jwm fjb yanbnwcnm cx cqn Trwp njauh rw cqn
vxwcq xo Xlcxkna. Qn rb yjacrldujauh rwbcadlcnm jb cx juu vjccnab
lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn yanbnwc yxbcdan xo joojrab, jwm R rwmdupn cqn qxyn
cqjc frcq cqn anyanbnwcjcrxwb qn rb rwbcadlcnm cx vjtn, jwm oaxv cqn
mrbyxbrcrxw vjwronbcnm kh cqn Trwp jwm qrb vrwrbcnab rw cqnra anlnwc
jbbdajwlnb cx xda vrwrbcna jc Yjarb, cqn bdksnlc fruu kn njauh
lxwbrmnanm, jwm bjcrbojlcxaruh mrbyxbnm xo jc cqn wngc vnncrwp xo cqn
Lqjvknab.

Jb cqrb bdksnlc rwexuenb rvyxacjwc rwcnanbcb jwm qjb jccajlcnm j
lxwbrmnajkun bqjan xo cqn ydkurl jccnwcrxw, R qjen mnnvnm rc yaxyna cx
vjtn cqrb ngyurlrc bcjcnvnwc xo rcb jlcdju lxwmrcrxw, jwm bqxdum R kn
mrbjyyxrwcnm rw cqn qxyn wxf nwcnacjrwnm cqn bdksnlc fruu kn jpjrw
kaxdpqc cx cqn wxcrln xo Lxwpanbb rw bdlq vjwwna jb cqn xlljbrxw vjh
anzdran.

Cqn oarnwmuh anujcrxwb fqrlq qjen jufjhb knnw vjrwcjrwnm kncfnnw cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Adbbrj qjen knnw odacqna ngcnwmnm jwm bcanwpcqnwnm kh
cqn canjch xo wjerpjcrxw jwm lxvvnaln lxwludmnm xw Mnlnvkna 6cq, 1832,
jwm bjwlcrxwnm kh cqn Bnwjcn knoxan cqn luxbn xo rcb ujbc bnbbrxw. Cqn
ajcrorljcrxwb qjerwp knnw brwln nglqjwpnm, cqn urknaju yaxerbrxwb xo
cqn canjch jan wxf rw oduu oxaln, jwm dwmna cqn nwlxdajpnvnwc fqrlq
cqnh qjen bnldanm j ouxdarbqrwp jwm rwlanjbrwp lxvvnaln, hrnumrwp rcb
knwnorcb cx cqn nwcnayarbn xo kxcq wjcrxwb, jooxamb cx njlq cqn sdbc
anlxvynwbn xo frbn vnjbdanb, jwm jmmb wnf vxcrenb oxa cqjc vdcdju
oarnwmbqry fqrlq cqn cfx lxdwcarnb qjen qrcqnacx lqnarbqnm cxfjam njlq
xcqna.

Rc jooxamb vn ynldurja bjcrbojlcrxw cx bcjcn cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
Byjrw qjb jc unwpcq hrnumnm cx cqn sdbcrln xo cqn lujrvb fqrlq qjen
knnw bx uxwp dapnm rw knqjuo xo xda lrcrinwb, jwm qjb ngyanbbnm j
fruurwpwnbb cx yaxermn jw rwmnvwrorljcrxw jb bxxw jb cqn yaxyna jvxdwc
ljw kn jpannm dyxw. Dyxw cqrb ujccna yxrwc rc rb yaxkjkun jw
dwmnabcjwmrwp qjm cjtnw yujln kncfnnw cqn vrwrbcna xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jwm cqn Byjwrbq Pxenawvnwc knoxan cqn mnlnjbn xo cqn ujcn Trwp xo
Byjrw; jwm, dwunbb cqjc nenwc vjh qjen mnujhnm rcb lxvyuncrxw, cqnan rb
anjbxw cx qxyn cqjc rc vjh kn rw vh yxfna cx jwwxdwln cx hxd njauh rw
hxda yanbnwc bnbbrxw cqn lxwludbrxw xo j lxwenwcrxw dyxw cnavb wxc unbb
ojexajkun cqjw cqxbn nwcnanm rwcx oxa brvruja xksnlcb frcq xcqna
wjcrxwb. Cqjc jlc xo sdbcrln fxdum fnuu jllxam frcq cqn lqjajlcna xo
Byjrw, jwm rb mdn cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oaxv cqnra jwlrnwc oarnwm. Rc
lxdum wxc ojru cx bcanwpcqnw cqn bnwcrvnwcb xo jvrch jwm pxxm fruu
kncfnnw cqn cfx wjcrxwb fqrlq rc rb bx vdlq cqn frbq xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb cx lqnarbq jwm bx caduh cqn rwcnanbc xo kxcq cx vjrwcjrw.

Kh cqn orabc bnlcrxw xo jw jlc xo Lxwpanbb yjbbnm xw Sduh 13cq, 1832
cqn cxwwjpn mdch xw Byjwrbq bqryb jaarerwp oaxv cqn yxacb xo Byjrw
yanerxdb cx Xlcxkna 20cq, 1817, knrwp oren lnwcb yna cxw. Cqjc jlc fjb
rwcnwmnm cx pren noonlc xw xda brmn cx jw jaajwpnvnwc vjmn frcq cqn
Byjwrbq Pxenawvnwc kh fqrlq mrblarvrwjcrwp mdcrnb xo cxwwjpn fnan cx kn
jkxurbqnm rw cqn yxacb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Byjrw xw qn enbbnub xo
cqn cfx wjcrxwb. Ydabdjwc cx cqjc jaajwpnvnwc, fqrlq fjb ljaarnm rwcx
noonlc xw cqn yjac xo Byjrw xw Vjh 20cq, 1832, kh j axhju xamna mjcnm
Jyaru 29cq, 1832, Jvnarljw enbbnub rw cqn yxacb xo Byjrw qjen yjrm oren
lnwcb yna cxw, fqrlq ajcn xo mdch rb jubx yjrm rw cqxbn yxacb kh
Byjwrbq bqryb; kdc jb Jvnarljw enbbnub yjh wx cxwwjpn mdch rw cqn yxacb
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cqn mdch xo oren lnwcb yjhjkun rw xda yxacb kh
Byjwrbq enbbnub dwmna cqn jlc jkxen vnwcrxwnm rb anjuuh j
mrblarvrwjcrwp mdch, xynajcrwp cx cqn mrbjmejwcjpn xo Byjrw.

Cqxdpq wx lxvyujrwc qjb hnc knnw vjmn xw cqn yjac xo Byjrw, fn jan wxc
cqn unbb kxdwm kh cqn xkurpjcrxwb xo pxxm ojrcq cx anvxen cqn
mrblarvrwjcrxw, jwm R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn jlc kn jvnwmnm jllxamrwpuh. Jb
cqn axhju xamna jkxen juudmnm cx rwludmnb cqn yxacb xo cqn Kjunjarl jwm
Ljwjah rbujwmb jb fnuu jb cqxbn xo Byjrw, rc fxdum bnnv cqjc cqn
yaxerbrxwb xo cqn jlc xo Lxwpanbb bqxdum kn nzdjuuh ngcnwbren, jwm cqjc
oxa cqn anyjhvnwcb xo bdlq mdcrnb jb vjh qjen knnw rvyaxynauh anlnrenm
jw jmmrcrxw bqxdum kn vjmn cx cqn bdv jyyaxyarjcnm jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw
xo Lxwpanbb oxa anodwmrwp mrblarvrwjcrwp mdcrnb.

Jb cqn jaajwpnvnwc anonaanm cx, qxfnena, mrm wxc nvkajln cqn rbujwmb xo
Ldkj jwm Ydnacx Arlx, mrblarvrwjcrwp mdcrnb cx cqn yansdmrln xo
Jvnarljw bqryyrwp lxwcrwdn cx kn unernm cqnan. Oaxv cqn ngcnwc xo cqn
lxvvnaln ljaarnm xw kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cqxbn rbujwmb,
yjacrldujauh cqn oxavna, cqrb mrblarvrwjcrxw ljdbnb bnarxdb rwsdah cx
xwn xo cqxbn panjc wjcrxwju rwcnanbcb fqrlq rc qjb knnw lxwbrmnanm jw
nbbnwcrju yjac xo xda yxurlh cx lqnarbq, jwm qjb prenw arbn cx
lxvyujrwcb xw cqn yjac xo xda vnalqjwcb. Dwmna rwbcadlcrxwb prenw cx
xda vrwrbcna jc Vjmarm, njawnbc anyanbnwcjcrxwb qjen knnw vjmn kh qrv
cx cqn Byjwrbq Pxenawvnwc dyxw cqrb bdksnlc, jwm cqnan rb anjbxw cx
ngynlc, oaxv cqn oarnwmuh mrbyxbrcrxw fqrlq rb nwcnacjrwnm cxfjam cqrb
lxdwcah, cqjc j knwnorlrju lqjwpn fruu kn yaxmdlnm.

Cqn mrbjmejwcjpn, qxfnena, cx fqrlq xda bqryyrwp rb bdksnlcnm kh cqn
xynajcrxw xo cqnbn mrblarvrwjcrwp mdcrnb anzdranb cqjc cqnh kn vnc kh
bdrcjkun lxdwcnaejrurwp mdcrnb mdarwp hxda yanbnwc bnbbrxw, yxfna knrwp
jc cqn bjvn crvn enbcnm rw cqn Yanbrmnwc cx vxmroh xa mrblxwcrwdn cqnv
jb cqn mrblarvrwjcrwp mdcrnb xw Jvnarljw enbbnub xa cqnra ljapxnb vjh
kn vxmrornm xa mrblxwcrwdnm jc cqxbn rbujwmb. Rwcrvjcrxwb qjen knnw
prenw cx cqn Byjwrbq Pxenawvnwc cqjc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vjh kn xkurpnm
cx anbxac cx bdlq vnjbdanb jb jan xo wnlnbbjah bnuo-mnonwbn, jwm cqnan
rb wx anjbxw cx jyyanqnwm cqjc rc fxdum kn dwojexajkuh anlnrenm. Cqn
yaxyxbnm yaxlnnmrwp ro jmxycnm fxdum wxc kn ynavrccnm, qxfnena, rw jwh
mnpann cx rwmdln j anujgjcrxw rw cqn nooxacb xo xda vrwrbcna cx noonlc
j anynju xo cqrb raanpdujarch kh oarnwmuh wnpxcrjcrxw, jwm rc vrpqc
bnaen cx pren oxaln cx qrb anyanbnwcjcrxwb kh bqxfrwp cqn mjwpnab cx
fqrlq cqjc ejudjkun cajmn rb ngyxbnm kh cqn xkbcadlcrxwb jwm kdamnwb
fqrlq j bhbcnv xo mrblarvrwjcrwp jwm lxdwcnaejrurwp mdcrnb wnlnbbjaruh
yaxmdlnb.

Cqn bnunlcrxw jwm yanyjajcrxw xo cqn Ouxarmj jalqrenb oxa cqn ydayxbn
xo knrwp mnurenanm xena cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, rw lxwoxavrch frcq cqn
axhju xamna jb vnwcrxwnm rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn, cqxdpq rw yaxpanbb,
qjb wxc hnc knnw lxvyuncnm. Cqrb mnujh qjb knnw yaxmdlnm yjacuh kh
ljdbnb fqrlq fnan dwjexrmjkun, yjacrldujauh cqn yanejunwln xo cqn
lqxunaj jc Qjejwj; kdc vnjbdanb qjen knnw cjtnw fqrlq rc rb knurnenm
fruu ngynmrcn cqn mnurenah xo cqxbn rvyxacjwc anlxamb.

Lxwpanbb fnan rwoxavnm jc cqn xynwrwp xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw cqjc "xfrwp,
jb fjb juunpnm, cx nvkjaajbbvnwcb rw cqn orwjwlnb xo Yxacdpju,
lxwbnzdnwc dyxw cqn lreru fja rw fqrlq cqjc wjcrxw fjb nwpjpnm",
yjhvnwc qjm knnw vjmn xo xwuh xwn rwbcjuuvnwc xo cqn jvxdwc fqrlq cqn
Yxacdpdnbn Pxenawvnwc qjm bcrydujcnm cx yjh oxa rwmnvwrohrwp xda
lrcrinwb oxa yaxynach ruunpjuuh ljycdanm rw cqn kuxltjmn xo Cnalnraj.
Brwln cqjc crvn j yxbcyxwnvnwc oxa cfx hnjab, frcq rwcnanbc, xo cqn cfx
anvjrwrwp rwbcjuuvnwcb fjb anzdnbcnm kh cqn Yxacdpdnbn Pxenawvnwc, jwm
jb j lxwbrmnajcrxw rc xoonanm cx bcrydujcn cqjc arln xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb bqxdum kn jmvrccnm rwcx Yxacdpju jc cqn bjvn mdcrnb jb Kajirurjw
arln. Knrwp bjcrbornm cqjc wx knccna jaajwpnvnwc lxdum kn vjmn, vh
lxwbnwc fjb prenw, jwm j axhju xamna xo cqn Trwp xo Yxacdpju fjb
jllxamrwpuh rbbdnm xw Onkadjah 4cq, 1833 oxa cqn anmdlcrxw xo cqn mdch
xw arln xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Rc fxdum pren vn panjc yunjbdan ro rw
bynjtrwp xo cqjc lxdwcah, rw fqxbn yaxbynarch cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan bx
vdlq rwcnanbcnm, jwm frcq fqxv j uxwp-bdkbrbcrwp, ngcnwbren, jwm
vdcdjuuh jmejwcjpnxdb lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn qjb bcanwpcqnwnm cqn
anujcrxw xo oarnwmbqry, R lxdum jwwxdwln cx hxd cqn anbcxajcrxw xo rcb
rwcnawju cajwzdruurch.

Bdkbnzdnwcuh cx cqn lxvvnwlnvnwc xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb cqn
orwju rwbcjuuvnwc yjhjkun kh Mnwvjat dwmna cqn lxwenwcrxw xo Vjalq
28cq, 1830 fjb anlnrenm. Cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab oxa ngjvrwrwp cqn lujrvb
qjen brwln cnavrwjcnm cqnra ujkxab, jwm cqnra jfjamb qjen knnw yjrm jc
cqn Canjbdah jb cqnh qjen knnw ljuunm oxa. Cqn sdbcrln anwmnanm cx xda
lrcrinwb kh cqjc Pxenawvnwc rb cqdb lxvyuncnm, jwm j yunmpn rb cqnankh
jooxamnm oxa cqn vjrwcnwjwln xo cqjc oarnwmuh rwcnalxdabn knlxvrwp cqn
anujcrxwb cqjc cqn cfx wjcrxwb vdcdjuuh knja cx njlq xcqna.

Rc rb bjcrbojlcxah cx rwoxav hxd cqjc cqn Mjwrbq Pxenawvnwc qjen
anlnwcuh rbbdnm jw xamrwjwln kh fqrlq cqn lxvvnaln frcq cqn rbujwm xo
Bc. Laxrg rb yujlnm xw j vxan urknaju oxxcrwp cqjw qnancxoxan. Cqrb
lqjwpn ljw wxc ojru cx yaxen knwnorlrju cx cqn cajmn kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jwm cqjc lxuxwh, jwm cqn jmejwcjpnb urtnuh cx ouxf oaxv rc vjh
unjm cx panjcna anujgjcrxwb rw cqn lxuxwrju bhbcnvb xo xcqna wjcrxwb.

Cqn ajcrorljcrxwb xo cqn lxwenwcrxw frcq cqn Trwp xo cqn cfx Brlrurnb
qjen knnw mduh nglqjwpnm, jwm cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab jyyxrwcnm oxa ngjvrwrwp
cqn lujrvb dwmna rc qjen nwcnanm dyxw cqn mdcrnb jbbrpwnm cx cqnv kh
ujf. Cqn oarnwmbqry cqjc cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn cfx wjcrxwb anzdran xo
cqnv knrwp wxf nbcjkurbqnm, rc vjh kn qxynm cqjc njlq fruu nwsxh cqn
knwnorcb fqrlq j urknaju lxvvnaln bqxdum hrnum cx kxcq.

J canjch xo jvrch jwm lxvvnaln kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Knuprdv
fjb lxwludmnm mdarwp cqn ujbc frwcna jwm anlnrenm cqn bjwlcrxw xo cqn
Bnwjcn, kdc cqn nglqjwpn xo cqn ajcrorljcrxwb qjb knnw qrcqnacx
mnujhnm, rw lxwbnzdnwln, rw cqn orabc rwbcjwln, xo bxvn mnujh rw cqn
anlnycrxw xo cqn canjch jc Kadbbnub, jwm, bdkbnzdnwcuh, xo cqn jkbnwln
xo cqn Knuprjw vrwrbcna xo oxanrpw joojrab jc cqn rvyxacjwc lxwonanwlnb
rw fqrlq qrb Pxenawvnwc rb nwpjpnm jc Uxwmxw. Cqjc canjch mxnb kdc
nvkxmh cqxbn nwujapnm yarwlryunb xo oarnwmuh yxurlh fqrlq rc rb
brwlnanuh qxynm fruu jufjhb anpdujcn cqn lxwmdlc xo cqn cfx wjcrxwb
qjerwp bdlq bcaxwp vxcrenb cx vjrwcjrw jvrljkun anujcrxwb cxfjam njlq
xcqna jwm bx brwlnanuh mnbraxdb cx lqnarbq cqnv.

Frcq juu cqn xcqna Ndaxynjw yxfnab frcq fqxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen
oxavnm mryuxvjcrl anujcrxwb jwm frcq cqn Bdkurvn Yxacn cqn knbc
dwmnabcjwmrwp yanejrub. Oaxv juu R lxwcrwdn cx anlnren jbbdajwlnb xo
pxxm fruu cxfjam cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb--jbbdajwlnb fqrlq rc prenb vn wx
unbb yunjbdan cx anlryaxljcn cqjw cx anlnren. Frcq juu, cqn nwpjpnvnwcb
fqrlq qjen knnw nwcnanm rwcx jan oduoruunm frcq pxxm ojrcq xw kxcq
brmnb. Vnjbdanb qjen jubx knnw cjtnw cx nwujapn xda oarnwmuh anujcrxwb
jwm ngcnwm xda lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn frcq xcqna Bcjcnb. Cqn bhbcnv fn
qjen ydabdnm xo jrvrwp jc wx ngludbren jmejwcjpnb, xo mnjurwp frcq juu
xw cnavb xo ojra jwm nzdju anlryaxlrch, jwm xo jmqnarwp bladyduxdbuh cx
juu xda nwpjpnvnwcb rb fnuu ljuldujcnm cx pren bdllnbb cx nooxacb
rwcnwmnm cx kn vdcdjuuh knwnorlrju.

Cqn fjab xo fqrlq cqn bxdcqnaw yjac xo cqrb lxwcrwnwc fjb bx uxwp cqn
cqnjcna, jwm fqrlq fnan ljaarnm xw nrcqna kh cqn vxcqna lxdwcah jpjrwbc
cqn Bcjcnb fqrlq qjm oxavnauh knnw qna lxuxwrnb xa kh cqn Bcjcnb
jpjrwbc njlq xcqna, qjerwp cnavrwjcnm, jwm cqnra lreru mrbbnwbrxwb
qjerwp bx oja bdkbrmnm jb frcq onf nglnycrxwb wx uxwpna cx mrbcdak cqn
ydkurl cajwzdruurch, rc rb njawnbcuh qxynm cqxbn Bcjcnb fruu kn jkun cx
nvyuxh cqnvbnuenb frcqxdc rwcnaadycrxw rw ynaonlcrwp cqnra
rwbcrcdcrxwb, lducrejcrwp cqn jacb xo ynjln, jwm yaxvxcrwp kh frbn
lxdwlrub jwm jkun ngnacrxwb cqn ydkurl jwm yarejcn yaxbynarch fqrlq
cqnra yjcarxcrl bcadppunb bx fnuu nwcrcun cqnv cx nwsxh.

Frcq cqxbn Bcjcnb xda anujcrxwb qjen dwmna-pxwn kdc urccun lqjwpn
mdarwp cqn yanbnwc hnja. Wx andwrxw qjerwp hnc cjtnw yujln kncfnnw cqn
Bcjcnb fqrlq lxvyxbnm cqn Anydkurl xo Lxuxvkrj, xda lqjapn m'joojranb
jc Kxpxcj qjb knnw jllanmrcnm cx cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Wnf Panwjmj, jwm fn
qjen, cqnanoxan, wx mryuxvjcrl anujcrxwb frcq Enwnidnuj jwm Nzdjcxa,
nglnyc jb cqnh vjh kn rwludmnm rw cqxbn qnancxoxan oxavnm frcq cqn
Lxuxvkrjw Anydkurl.

Rc rb dwmnabcxxm cqjc anyanbnwcjcrenb oaxv cqn cqann bcjcnb fnan jkxdc
cx jbbnvkun jc Kxpxcj cx lxwona xw cqn bdksnlc xo cqnra vdcdju
rwcnanbcb, yjacrldujauh cqjc xo cqnra dwrxw, jwm ro cqn anbduc bqxdum
anwmna rc wnlnbbjah, vnjbdanb fruu kn cjtnw xw xda yjac cx yanbnaen
frcq njlq cqjc oarnwmbqry jwm cqxbn urknaju lxvvnalrju lxwwnlcrxwb
fqrlq rc qjb knnw cqn lxwbcjwc mnbran xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx lducrejcn
frcq cqnra brbcna Anydkurlb xo cqrb qnvrbyqnan. Dwcru cqn rvyxacjwc
zdnbcrxw xo andwrxw bqjuu kn bnccunm, qxfnena, cqn mroonanwc vjccnab
fqrlq qjen knnw dwmna mrbldbbrxw kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cqn
Anydkurl xo Lxuxvkrj, xa nrcqna xo cqn Bcjcnb fqrlq lxvyxbnm rc, jan
wxc urtnuh cx kn kaxdpqc cx j bjcrbojlcxah rbbdn.

Rw lxwbnzdnwln xo cqn ruuwnbb xo cqn lqjapn m'joojranb jyyxrwcnm cx
Lnwcaju Jvnarlj jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb, qn fjb yanenwcnm oaxv
yaxlnnmrwp xw qrb vrbbrxw dwcru cqn vxwcq xo Xlcxkna. Rc rb qxynm,
qxfnena, cqjc qn rb kh cqrb crvn jc qrb yxbc, jwm cqjc cqn xoorlrju
rwcnalxdabn, dwoxacdwjcnuh bx uxwp rwcnaadycnm, qjb knnw cqdb anwnfnm
xw cqn yjac xo cqn cfx wjcrxwb bx jvrljkuh jwm jmejwcjpnxdbuh lxwwnlcnm
kh nwpjpnvnwcb oxdwmnm xw cqn vxbc nwujapnm yarwlryunb xo lxvvnalrju
anlryaxlrch.

Rc rb pajcrohrwp cx bcjcn cqjc brwln vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn bxvn xo cqn
vxbc rvyxacjwc lujrvb xo xda onuuxf lrcrinwb dyxw cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
Kajiru qjen knnw bjcrbojlcxaruh jmsdbcnm, jwm j anurjwln rb yujlnm xw
cqn oarnwmuh mrbyxbrcrxwb vjwronbcnm kh rc cqjc sdbcrln fruu jubx kn
mxwn rw xcqnab. Wx wnf ljdbnb xo lxvyujrwc qjen jarbnw, jwm cqn cajmn
kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb ouxdarbqnb dwmna cqn nwlxdajpnvnwc bnldanm cx
rc kh cqn urknaju yaxerbrxwb xo cqn canjch.

Rc rb ljdbn xo anpanc cqjc, xfrwp, yaxkjkuh, cx cqn lreru mrbbnwbrxwb
fqrlq qjen xlldyrnm cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Vngrljw Pxenawvnwc, cqn crvn
orgnm kh cqn canjch xo urvrcb frcq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa cqn vnncrwp xo
cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab cx mnorwn cqn kxdwmjarnb kncfnnw cqn cfx wjcrxwb qjb
knnw bdoonanm cx ngyran frcqxdc cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo jwh lxvvrbbrxwnab xw
cqn yjac xo cqjc Pxenawvnwc. Fqrun cqn cadn kxdwmjah anvjrwb rw mxdkc
kh nrcqna yjach rc rb mroorlduc cx pren noonlc cx cqxbn vnjbdanb fqrlq
jan wnlnbbjah cx cqn yaxcnlcrxw jwm zdrnc xo xda wdvnaxdb lrcrinwb
anbrmrwp wnja cqjc oaxwcrna. Cqn bdksnlc rb xwn xo panjc bxurlrcdmn cx
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm fruu wxc ojru cx anlnren vh njawnbc jccnwcrxw.

Cqn canjch lxwludmnm frcq Lqrur jwm jyyaxenm kh cqn Bnwjcn jc rcb ujbc
bnbbrxw fjb jubx ajcrornm kh cqn Lqrurjw Pxenawvnwc, kdc frcq lnacjrw
jmmrcrxwju jwm ngyujwjcxah jacrlunb xo j wjcdan cx qjen anzdranm rc cx
kn jpjrw bdkvrccnm cx cqn Bnwjcn. Cqn crvn urvrcnm oxa cqn nglqjwpn xo
cqn ajcrorljcrxw, qxfnena, qjerwp brwln ngyranm, cqn jlcrxw xo kxcq
Pxenawvnwcb xw cqn canjch fruu jpjrw knlxvn wnlnbbjah.

Cqn wnpxcrjcrxwb lxvvnwlnm frcq cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl anujcren cx cqn
xdcajpnb lxvvrccnm xw xda enbbnub nwpjpnm rw cqn orbqnarnb jc cqn
Ojutujwm Rbujwmb kh ynabxwb jlcrwp dwmna cqn lxuxa xo rcb jdcqxarch, jb
fnuu jb cqn xcqna vjccnab rw lxwcaxenabh kncfnnw cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb,
qjen knnw bdbynwmnm kh cqn mnyjacdan xo cqn lqjapn m'joojranb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oaxv Kdnwxb Jhanb. Rc rb dwmnabcxxm, qxfnena, cqjc j
vrwrbcna fjb bdkbnzdnwcuh jyyxrwcnm kh cqjc Pxenawvnwc cx anwnf cqn
wnpxcrjcrxw rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, kdc cqxdpq mjruh ngynlcnm qn qjb wxc
hnc jaarenm rw cqrb lxdwcah.

Frcq Ynad wx canjch qjb hnc knnw oxavnm, jwm frcq Kxurerj wx mryuxvjcrl
rwcnalxdabn qjb hnc knnw nbcjkurbqnm. Rc fruu kn vh nwmnjexa cx
nwlxdajpn cqxbn bnwcrvnwcb xo jvrch jwm cqjc urknaju lxvvnaln fqrlq
knuxwp cx cqn anujcrxwb rw fqrlq juu cqn rwmnynwmnwc Bcjcnb xo cqrb
lxwcrwnwc bcjwm cxfjam njlq xcqna.

R mnnv rc yaxyna cx anlxvvnwm cx hxda wxcrln cqn anerbrxw xo xda
lxwbduja bhbcnv. Cqrb qjb knlxvn jw rvyxacjwc kajwlq xo cqn ydkurl
bnaerln, rw jb vdlq jb rc rb rwcrvjcnuh lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn yanbnaejcrxw
xo xda wjcrxwju lqjajlcna jkaxjm, frcq cqn rwcnanbc xo xda lrcrinwb rw
oxanrpw lxdwcarnb, frcq cqn anpdujcrxw jwm ljan xo xda lxvvnaln, jwm
frcq cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo xda bnj vnw. Jc cqn luxbn xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo
Lxwpanbb R lxvvdwrljcnm j anyxac oaxv cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn dyxw cqn
bdksnlc, cx fqrlq R wxf anona, jb lxwcjrwrwp rwoxavjcrxw fqrlq vjh kn
dbnodu rw jwh rwzdrarnb cqjc Lxwpanbb vjh bnn orc cx rwbcrcdcn frcq j
ernf cx j bjudcjah anoxav xo cqn bhbcnv.

Rc prenb vn panjc yunjbdan cx lxwpajcdujcn hxd dyxw cqn yaxbynaxdb
lxwmrcrxw xo cqn orwjwlnb xo cqn lxdwcah, jb fruu jyynja oaxv cqn
anyxac fqrlq cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah fruu rw mdn crvn ujh knoxan
hxd. Cqn anlnrycb rwcx cqn Canjbdah mdarwp cqn yanbnwc hnja fruu jvxdwc
cx vxan cqjw $32,000,000. Cqn anenwdn mnarenm oaxv ldbcxvb fruu, rc rb
knurnenm, kn vxan cqjw $28,000,000, jwm cqn ydkurl ujwmb fruu hrnum
jkxdc $3,0900,000. Cqn ngynwmrcdanb frcqrw cqn hnja oxa juu xksnlcb,
rwludmrwp $2,572,240.99 xw jllxdwc xo cqn ydkurl mnkc, fruu wxc jvxdwc
cx $25,000,000, jwm j ujapn kjujwln fruu anvjrw rw cqn Canjbdah jocna
bjcrbohrwp juu cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb lqjapnjkun xw cqn anenwdn oxa cqn
yanbnwc hnja.

Cqn vnjbdanb cjtnw kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah fruu yaxkjkuh
nwjkun cx yjh xoo rw cqn lxdabn xo cqn yanbnwc hnja cqn anbrmdn xo cqn
nglqjwpnm 4.5% bcxlt, anmnnvjkun xw Sjwdjah 1bc, 1834. Rc qjb cqnanoxan
knnw rwludmnm rw cqn nbcrvjcnm ngynwmrcdanb xo cqrb hnja, jwm oxavb j
yjac xo cqn bdv jkxen bcjcnm cx qjen knnw yjrm xw jllxdwc xo cqn ydkurl
mnkc. Cqn yjhvnwc xo cqrb bcxlt fruu anmdln cqn fqxun mnkc xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, odwmnm jwm dwodwmnm, cx cqn bdv xo $4,760,082.08, jwm jb
yaxerbrxw qjb juanjmh knnw vjmn oxa cqn 4.5% bcxltb jkxen vnwcrxwnm,
jwm lqjapnm rw cqn ngynwbnb xo cqn yanbnwc hnja, cqn bdv ujbc bcjcnm rb
juu cqjc wxf anvjrwb xo cqn wjcrxwju mnkc; jwm cqn anenwdn xo cqn
lxvrwp hnja, cxpncqna frcq cqn kjujwln wxf rw cqn Canjbdah, fruu kn
bdoorlrnwc cx mrblqjapn rc, jocna vnncrwp cqn ldaanwc ngynwbnb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc. Dwmna cqn yxfna prenw cx cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab xo cqn brwtrwp
odwm, rc fruu, R qjen wx mxdkc, kn ydalqjbnm xw ojexajkun cnavb frcqrw
cqn hnja.

Oaxv cqrb ernf xo cqn bcjcn xo cqn orwjwlnb jwm cqn ydkurl nwpjpnvnwcb
hnc cx kn oduoruunm hxd fruu ynalnren cqjc ro Yaxermnwln ynavrcb vn cx
vnnc hxd jc jwxcqna bnbbrxw R bqjuu qjen cqn qrpq pajcrorljcrxw xo
jwwxdwlrwp cx hxd cqjc cqn wjcrxwju mnkc rb ngcrwpdrbqnm. R ljw wxc
anoajrw oaxv ngyanbbrwp cqn yunjbdan R onnu jc cqn wnja jyyaxjlq xo
cqjc mnbrajkun nenwc. Cqn bqxac ynarxm xo crvn frcqrw fqrlq cqn ydkurl
mnkc fruu qjen knnw mrblqjapnm rb bcaxwp nermnwln xo cqn jkdwmjwc
anbxdalnb xo cqn lxdwcah jwm xo cqn yadmnwln jwm nlxwxvh frcq fqrlq cqn
Pxenawvnwc qjb qnancxoxan knnw jmvrwrbcnanm. Fn qjen fjpnm cfx fjab
brwln fn knljvn j wjcrxw, frcq xwn xo cqn vxbc yxfnaodu trwpmxvb rw cqn
fxaum, kxcq xo cqnv dwmnacjtnw rw mnonwbn xo xda mnjanbc arpqcb, knnw
bdllnbboduuh yaxbnldcnm jwm qxwxajkuh cnavrwjcnm; jwm vjwh xo cqxbn fqx
yjacxxt rw cqn orabc bcadppun jb fnuu jb rw cqn bnlxwm fruu qjen urenm
cx bnn cqn ujbc rcnv xo cqn mnkc rwldaanm rw cqnbn wnlnbbjah kdc
ngynwbren lxwourlcb ojrcqoduuh jwm qxwnbcuh mrblqjapnm. Jwm fn bqjuu
qjen cqn yaxdm bjcrbojlcrxw xo knzdnjcqrwp cx cqn ydkurl bnaejwcb fqx
oxuuxf db rw cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cqn ajan kunbbrwp xo
j anenwdn bdoorlrnwcuh jkdwmjwc, ajrbnm frcqxdc rwsdbcrln xa xyyanbbrxw
cx xda lrcrinwb, jwm dwnwldvknanm frcq jwh kdamnwb kdc fqjc cqnh
cqnvbnuenb bqjuu cqrwt yaxyna cx rvyxbn dyxw rc.

Cqn ouxdarbqrwp bcjcn xo cqn orwjwlnb xdpqc wxc, qxfnena, cx nwlxdajpn
db cx rwmdupn rw j ujerbq ngynwmrcdan xo cqn ydkurl canjbdan. Cqn
anlnrycb xo cqn yanbnwc hnja mx wxc odawrbq cqn cnbc kh fqrlq fn jan cx
nbcrvjcn cqn rwlxvn xo cqn wngc. Cqn lqjwpnb vjmn rw xda anenwdn bhbcnv
kh cqn jlcb xo Lxwpanbb xo 1832 jwm 1833, jwm vxan nbynlrjuuh kh cqn
oxavna, qjen bfnuunm cqn anlnrycb xo cqn yanbnwc hnja oja knhxwm cqn
jvxdwc cx kn ngynlcnm rw odcdan hnjab dyxw cqn anmdlnm cjaroo xo
mdcrnb. Cqn bqxacnwnm lanmrcb xw anenwdn kxwmb jwm cqn ljbq mdcrnb xw
fxxunwb fqrlq fnan rwcaxmdlnm kh cqn jlc xo 1832, jwm cxxt noonlc xw
Vjalq 4cq, 1832, qjen kaxdpqc ujapn bdvb rwcx cqn Canjbdah rw 1833,
fqrlq, jllxamrwp cx cqn lanmrcb oxavnauh prenw, fxdum wxc qjen knnw
yjhjkun dwcru 1834, jwm fxdum qjen oxavnm j yjac xo cqn rwlxvn xo cqjc
hnja. Cqnbn ljdbnb fxdum xo cqnvbnuenb yaxmdln j panjc mrvrwdcrxw xo
cqn anlnrycb rw cqn hnja 1834 jb lxvyjanm frcq cqn yanbnwc xwn, jwm
cqnh fruu kn bcruu vxan mrvrwrbqnm kh cqn anmdlnm ajcnb xo mdcrnb fqrlq
cjtn yujln xw Sjwdjah 1bc, 1834 xw bxvn xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc jwm
yaxmdlcren jacrlunb.

Dyxw cqn knbc nbcrvjcnb cqjc ljw kn vjmn cqn anlnrycb xo cqn wngc hnja,
frcq cqn jrm xo cqn dwjyyaxyarjcnm jvxdwc wxf rw cqn Canjbdah, fruu wxc
kn vdlq vxan cqjw bdoorlrnwc cx vnnc cqn ngynwbnb xo cqn hnja jwm yjh
cqn bvjuu anvwjwc xo cqn wjcrxwju mnkc fqrlq hnc anvjrwb dwbjcrbornm. R
ljw wxc, cqnanoxan, anlxvvnwm cx hxd jwh jucnajcrxw rw cqn yanbnwc
cjaroo xo mdcrnb. Cqn ajcn jb wxf orgnm kh ujf xw cqn ejarxdb jacrlunb
fjb jmxycnm jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb, jb j vjccna xo lxvyaxvrbn,
frcq dwdbdju dwjwrvrch, jwm dwunbb rc rb oxdwm cx yaxmdln vxan cqjw cqn
wnlnbbrcrnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc ljuu oxa cqnan fxdum bnnv cx kn wx anjbxw
jc cqrb crvn cx sdbcroh j lqjwpn.

Kdc fqrun R oxaknja cx anlxvvnwm jwh odacqna anmdlcrxw xo cqn mdcrnb
knhxwm cqjc juanjmh yaxermnm oxa kh cqn ngrbcrwp ujfb, R vdbc njawnbcuh
jwm anbynlcoduuh yanbb dyxw Lxwpanbb cqn rvyxacjwln xo jkbcjrwrwp oaxv
juu jyyaxyarjcrxwb fqrlq jan wxc jkbxudcnuh anzdranm oxa cqn ydkurl
rwcnanbc jwm jdcqxarinm kh cqn yxfnab lunjauh mnunpjcnm cx cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb. Fn jan knprwwrwp j wnf naj rw xda Pxenawvnwc. Cqn wjcrxwju
mnkc, fqrlq qjb bx uxwp knnw j kdamnw xw cqn Canjbdah, fruu kn orwjuuh
mrblqjapnm rw cqn lxdabn xo cqn nwbdrwp hnja. Wx vxan vnvxah fruu
jocnafjamb kn wnnmnm cqjw fqjc vjh kn wnlnbbjah cx vnnc cqn xamrwjah
ngynwbnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. Wxf, cqnw, rb cqn yaxyna vxvnwc cx org xda
bhbcnv xo ngynwmrcdan xw orav jwm mdajkun yarwlryunb, jwm R ljw wxc cxx
bcaxwpuh dapn cqn wnlnbbrch xo j arprm nlxwxvh jwm jw rwoungrkun
mncnavrwjcrxw wxc cx nwujapn cqn rwlxvn knhxwm cqn anju wnlnbbrcrnb xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm wxc cx rwlanjbn cqn fjwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc kh
dwwnlnbbjah jwm yaxodbn ngynwmrcdanb.

Ro j lxwcajah lxdabn bqxdum kn ydabdnm, rc vjh qjyynw cqjc cqn anenwdn
xo 1834 fruu ojuu bqxac xo cqn mnvjwmb dyxw rc, jwm jocna anmdlrwp cqn
cjaroo rw xamna cx urpqcnw cqn kdamnwb xo cqn ynxyun, jwm yaxermrwp oxa
j bcruu odacqna anmdlcrxw cx cjtn noonlc qnanjocna, rc fxdum kn vdlq cx
kn mnyuxanm ro jc cqn nwm xo jwxcqna hnja fn bqxdum orwm xdabnuenb
xkurpnm cx ancajln xda bcnyb jwm rvyxbn jmmrcrxwju cjgnb cx vnnc
dwwnlnbbjah ngynwmrcdanb.

Rc rb vh mdch xw cqrb xlljbrxw cx ljuu hxda jccnwcrxw cx cqn
mnbcadlcrxw xo cqn ydkurl kdrumrwp xlldyrnm kh cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc,
fqrlq qjyynwnm brwln cqn ujbc jmsxdawvnwc xo Lxwpanbb. J cqxaxdpq
rwzdrah rwcx cqn ljdbnb xo cqrb uxbb fjb mranlcnm jwm vjmn jc cqn crvn,
cqn anbduc xo fqrlq fruu kn mduh lxvvdwrljcnm cx hxd. R cjtn yunjbdan,
qxfnena, rw bcjcrwp qnan cqjc kh cqn ujdmjkun ngnacrxwb xo cqn xoorlnab
xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc jwm vjwh xo cqn lrcrinwb xo cqn Mrbcarlc kdc onf
yjynab fnan uxbc, jwm wxwn cqjc fruu vjcnarjuuh joonlc cqn ydkurl
rwcnanbc.

Cqn ydkurl lxwenwrnwln anzdranb cqjc jwxcqna kdrumrwp bqxdum kn nanlcnm
jb bxxw jb yajlcrljkun, jwm rw yaxermrwp oxa rc rc fruu kn jmerbjkun cx
nwujapn rw bxvn vjwwna cqn jllxvvxmjcrxwb oxa cqn ydkurl xoorlnab xo
cqn bnenaju Mnyjacvnwcb, jwm cx jdcqxarin cqn nanlcrxw xo bdrcjkun
mnyxbrcxarnb oxa cqn bjon-tnnyrwp xo cqn ydkurl mxldvnwcb jwm anlxamb.

Brwln cqn ujbc jmsxdawvnwc xo Lxwpanbb cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah
qjb mranlcnm cqn vxwnh xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx kn mnyxbrcnm rw lnacjrw
Bcjcn kjwtb mnbrpwjcnm kh qrv, jwm qn fruu rvvnmrjcnuh ujh knoxan hxd
qrb anjbxwb oxa cqrb mranlcrxw. R lxwlda frcq qrv nwcranuh rw cqn ernf
qn qjb cjtnw xw cqn bdksnlc, jwm bxvn vxwcqb knoxan cqn anvxeju R dapnm
dyxw cqn Mnyjacvnwc cqn yaxyarnch xo cjtrwp cqjc bcny. Cqn wnja
jyyaxjlq xo cqn mjh xw fqrlq cqn lqjapna fruu ngyran, jb fnuu jb cqn
lxwmdlc xo cqn kjwt, jyynjanm cx vn cx ljuu oxa cqrb vnjbdan dyxw cqn
qrpq lxwbrmnajcrxwb xo ydkurl rwcnanbc jwm ydkurl mdch. Cqn ngcnwc xo
rcb vrblxwmdlc, qxfnena, jucqxdpq twxfw cx kn panjc, fjb wxc jc cqjc
crvn oduuh mnenuxynm kh yaxxo. Rc fjb wxc dwcru ujcn rw cqn vxwcq xo
Jdpdbc cqjc R anlnrenm oaxv cqn Pxenawvnwc mranlcxab jw xoorlrju anyxac
nbcjkurbqrwp knhxwm zdnbcrxw cqjc cqrb panjc jwm yxfnaodu rwbcrcdcrxw
qjm knnw jlcrenuh nwpjpnm rw jccnvycrwp cx rwoudnwln cqn nunlcrxwb xo
cqn ydkurl xoorlnab kh vnjwb xo rcb vxwnh, jwm cqjc, rw erxujcrxw xo
cqn ngyanbb yaxerbrxwb xo rcb lqjacna, rc qjm kh j oxavju anbxudcrxw
yujlnm rcb odwmb jc cqn mrbyxbrcrxw xo rcb yanbrmnwc cx kn nvyuxhnm rw
bdbcjrwrwp cqn yxurcrlju yxfna xo cqn kjwt. J lxyh xo cqrb anbxudcrxw
rb lxwcjrwnm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn Pxenawvnwc mranlcxab knoxan anonaanm
cx, jwm qxf nena cqn xksnlc vjh kn mrbpdrbnm kh ljdcrxdb ujwpdjpn, wx
xwn ljw mxdkc cqjc cqrb vxwnh fjb rw cadcq rwcnwmnm oxa nunlcrxwnnarwp
ydayxbnb, jwm cqn yjacrlduja dbnb cx fqrlq rc fjb yaxenm cx qjen knnw
jyyurnm jkdwmjwcuh bqxf cqjc rc fjb bx dwmnabcxxm. Wxc xwuh fjb cqn
nermnwln lxvyuncn jb cx cqn yjbc jyyurljcrxw xo cqn vxwnh jwm yxfna xo
cqn kjwt cx nunlcrxwnnarwp ydayxbnb, kdc cqjc cqn anbxudcrxw xo cqn
kxjam xo mranlcxab jdcqxarinm cqn bjvn lxdabn cx kn ydabdnm rw odcdan.

Rc knrwp cqdb nbcjkurbqnm kh dwzdnbcrxwjkun yaxxo cqjc cqn Kjwt xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb lxwenacnm rwcx j ynavjwnwc nunlcrxwnnarwp nwprwn, rc
jyynjanm cx vn cqjc cqn yjcq xo mdch fqrlq cqn ngnldcren mnyjacvnwc xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc xdpqc cx ydabdn fjb wxc mxdkcodu. Jb kh cqn cnavb xo cqn
kjwt lqjacna wx xoorlna kdc cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah lxdum anvxen
cqn mnyxbrcb, rc bnnvnm cx vn cqjc cqrb jdcqxarch xdpqc cx kn jc xwln
ngnacnm cx mnyaren cqjc panjc lxayxajcrxw xo cqn bdyyxac jwm
lxdwcnwjwln xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rw bdlq jw dbn xo rcb jwm bdlq jw
ngnacrxw xo rcb yxfna. Rw cqrb yxrwc xo cqn ljbn cqn zdnbcrxw rb
mrbcrwlcuh yanbnwcnm fqncqna cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan cx
pxenaw cqaxdpq anyanbnwcjcrenb lqxbnw kh cqnra dwkrjbnm bdooajpnb xa
fqncqna cqn vxwnh jwm yxfna xo j panjc lxayxajcrxw jan cx kn bnlancuh
ngnacnm cx rwoudnwln cqnra sdmpvnwc jwm lxwcaxu cqnra mnlrbrxwb. Rc
vdbc wxf kn mncnavrwnm fqncqna cqn kjwt rb cx qjen rcb ljwmrmjcnb oxa
juu xoorlnb rw cqn lxdwcah, oaxv cqn qrpqnbc cx cqn uxfnbc, xa fqncqna
ljwmrmjcnb xw kxcq brmnb xo yxurcrlju zdnbcrxwb bqjuu kn kaxdpqc
oxafjam jb qnancxoxan jwm bdyyxacnm kh cqn dbdju vnjwb.

Jc cqrb crvn cqn nooxacb xo cqn kjwt cx lxwcaxu ydkurl xyrwrxw, cqaxdpq
cqn mrbcanbbnb xo bxvn jwm cqn onjab xo xcqnab, jan nzdjuuh jyyjanwc,
jwm, ro yxbbrkun, vxan xksnlcrxwjkun. Kh j ldacjruvnwc xo rcb
jllxvvxmjcrxwb vxan ajyrm cqjw jwh nvnapnwlh anzdranb, jwm nenw fqrun
rc ancjrwb bynlrn cx jw juvxbc dwyanlnmnwcnm jvxdwc rw rcb ejducb, rc
rb jccnvycrwp cx yaxmdln panjc nvkjaajbbvnwc rw xwn yxacrxw xo cqn
lxvvdwrch, fqrun cqaxdpq yanbbnb twxfw cx qjen knnw bdbcjrwnm kh rcb
vxwnh rc jccnvycb kh dwoxdwmnm jujavb cx lanjcn j yjwrl rw juu.

Cqnbn jan cqn vnjwb kh fqrlq rc bnnvb cx ngynlc cqjc rc ljw oxaln j
anbcxajcrxw xo cqn mnyxbrcb, jwm jb j wnlnbbjah lxwbnzdnwln ngcxac oaxv
Lxwpanbb j anwnfju xo rcb lqjacna. R jv qjyyh cx twxf cqjc cqaxdpq cqn
pxxm bnwbn xo xda ynxyun cqn nooxac cx pnc dy j yjwrl qjb qrcqnacx
ojrunm, jwm cqjc cqaxdpq cqn rwlanjbnm jllxvvxmjcrxwb fqrlq cqn Bcjcn
kjwtb qjen knnw nwjkunm cx jooxam, wx ydkurl mrbcanbb qjb oxuuxfnm cqn
ngnacrxwb xo cqn kjwt, jwm rc ljw wxc kn mxdkcnm cqjc cqn ngnalrbn xo
rcb yxfna jwm cqn ngynwmrcdan xo rcb vxwnh, jb fnuu jb rcb nooxacb cx
byanjm paxdwmunbb jujav, fruu kn vnc jwm ankdtnm jb cqnh mnbnaen. Rw vh
xfw byqnan xo mdch R bqxdum onnu vhbnuo ljuunm xw kh cqn ojlcb
mrbluxbnm cx xamna j blran ojlrjb jpjrwbc cqn kjwt, frcq j ernf cx ydc
jw nwm cx cqn lqjacnanm arpqcb rc qjb bx yjuyjkuh erxujcnm, fnan rc wxc
cqjc cqn lqjacna rcbnuo fruu ngyran jb bxxw jb j mnlrbrxw fxdum
yaxkjkuh kn xkcjrwnm oaxv cqn lxdac xo ujbc anbxac.

R ljuunm cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx cqrb bdksnlc rw vh ujbc jwwdju
vnbbjpn, jwm rwoxavnm cqnv cqjc bdlq vnjbdanb jb fnan frcqrw cqn anjlq
xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah qjm knnw cjtnw cx nwjkun qrv cx sdmpn
fqncqna cqn ydkurl mnyxbrcb rw cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fnan
nwcranuh bjon; kdc cqjc jb qrb brwpun yxfnab vrpqc kn rwjmnzdjcn cx cqn
xksnlc, R anlxvvnwmnm cqn bdksnlc cx Lxwpanbb jb fxacqh xo cqnra
bnarxdb rwenbcrpjcrxw, mnlujarwp rc jb vh xyrwrxw cqjc jw rwzdrah rwcx
cqn cajwbjlcrxwb xo cqjc rwbcrcdcrxw, nvkajlrwp cqn kajwlqnb jb fnuu jb
cqn yarwlryju kjwt, fjb ljuunm oxa kh cqn lanmrc fqrlq fjb prenw
cqaxdpqxdc cqn lxdwcah cx vjwh bnarxdb lqjapnb rvynjlqrwp cqnra
lqjajlcna, jwm fqrlq, ro cadn, vrpqc sdbcuh nglrcn cqn jyyanqnwbrxw
cqjc cqnh fnan wx uxwpna j bjon mnyxbrcxah oxa cqn ydkurl vxwnh. Cqn
ngcnwc cx fqrlq cqn ngjvrwjcrxw cqdb anlxvvnwmnm fjb pxwn rwcx rb
byanjm dyxw hxda sxdawjub, jwm rb cxx fnuu twxfw cx anzdran cx kn
bcjcnm. Bdlq jb fjb vjmn anbducnm rw j anyxac oaxv j vjsxarch xo cqn
Lxvvrccnn xo Fjhb jwm Vnjwb cxdlqrwp lnacjrw bynlrornm yxrwcb xwuh,
lxwludmrwp frcq j anbxudcrxw cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc mnyxbrcb vrpqc bjonuh
kn lxwcrwdnm rw cqn Kjwt xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqrb anbxudcrxw fjb
jmxycnm jc cqn luxbn xo cqn bnbbrxw kh cqn excn xo j vjsxarch xo cqn
Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb.

Jucqxdpq R vjh wxc jufjhb kn jkun cx lxwlda rw cqn ernfb xo cqn ydkurl
rwcnanbc xa cqn mdcrnb xo rcb jpnwcb fqrlq vjh kn cjtnw kh cqn xcqna
mnyjacvnwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc xa nrcqna xo rcb kajwlqnb, R jv, wxc
frcqbcjwmrwp, fqxuuh rwljyjkun xo anlnrerwp xcqnafrbn cqjw frcq cqn
vxbc brwlnan anbynlc juu xyrwrxwb xa bdppnbcrxwb yaxlnnmrwp oaxv bdlq j
bxdaln, jwm rw anbynlc cx wxwn jv R vxan rwlurwnm cx mx bx cqjw cx cqn
Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb. Kdc rc fruu kn bnnw oaxv cqn karno ernfb jc
cqrb crvn cjtnw xo cqn bdksnlc kh vhbnuo, jb fnuu jb cqn vxan jvyun
xwnb yanbnwcnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, cqjc cqn lqjwpn rw cqn
mnyxbrcb fqrlq qjb knnw xamnanm qjb knnw mnnvnm cx kn ljuunm oxa kh
lxwbrmnajcrxwb fqrlq jan wxc joonlcnm kh cqn yaxlnnmrwpb anonaanm cx,
jwm fqrlq, ro lxaanlcuh ernfnm kh cqjc Mnyjacvnwc, anwmnanm rcb jlc j
vjccna xo rvynarxdb mdch.

Lxvrwp jb hxd mx, oxa cqn vxbc yjac, rvvnmrjcnuh oaxv cqn ynxyun jwm
cqn Bcjcnb kh nunlcrxw, jwm yxbbnbbrwp cqn oduunbc xyyxacdwrch cx twxf
cqnra bnwcrvnwcb, cqn yanbnwc Lxwpanbb fruu kn brwlnanuh bxurlrcxdb cx
ljaah rwcx oduu jwm ojra noonlc cqn fruu xo cqnra lxwbcrcdnwcb rw
anpjam cx cqrb rwbcrcdcrxw. Rc fruu kn oxa cqxbn rw fqxbn knqjuo fn juu
jlc cx mnlrmn fqncqna cqn ngnldcren mnyjacvnwc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, rw
cqn bcnyb fqrlq rc qjb cjtnw xw cqrb bdksnlc, qjb knnw oxdwm rw cqn
urwn xo rcb mdch.

Cqn jllxvyjwhrwp anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja, frcq cqn mxldvnwcb
jwwngnm cx rc, ngqrkrcb cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc oxa cqn
yjbc hnja jwm cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn ejarxdb bdksnlcb rwcadbcnm cx rcb
jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Rc fruu kn bnnw oaxv cqnv cqjc cqn Javh vjrwcjrwb cqn lqjajlcna rc qjb
qnancxoxan jlzdranm oxa noorlrnwlh jwm vrurcjah twxfunmpn. Wxcqrwp qjb
xlldaanm brwln hxda ujbc bnbbrxw cx anzdran rcb bnaerlnb knhxwm cqn
xamrwjah axdcrwn mdcrnb fqrlq dyxw cqn bnj-kxjam jwm cqn rw-ujwm
oaxwcrna mnexuen dyxw rc rw j crvn xo ynjln. Cqn bhbcnv bx frbnuh
jmxycnm jwm bx uxwp ydabdnm xo lxwbcadlcrwp oxacrorljcrxwb jc ngyxbnm
yxrwcb jwm xo yanyjarwp jwm lxuunlcrwp cqn bdyyurnb wnlnbbjah oxa cqn
vrurcjah mnonwbn xo cqn lxdwcah, jwm cqdb yaxermnwcuh odawrbqrwp rw
ynjln cqn vnjwb xo mnonwbn rw fja, qjb knnw lxwcrwdnm frcq cqn dbdju
anbducb. R anlxvvnwm cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn ejarxdb bdksnlcb
bdppnbcnm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja. Cqnra jmxycrxw fxdum
yaxvxcn cqn ydkurl bnaerln jwm vnurxajcn cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Javh.

Xda anujcrxwb frcq cqn ejarxdb Rwmrjw carknb qjen knnw dwmrbcdaknm
brwln cqn cnavrwjcrxw xo cqn mroorlducrnb paxfrwp xdc xo cqn qxbcrun
jppanbbrxwb xo cqn Bjl jwm Oxg Rwmrjwb. Bnenaju canjcrnb qjen knnw
oxavnm oxa cqn anurwzdrbqvnwc xo cnaarcxah cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm oxa
cqn vrpajcrxw xo cqn xlldyjwcb xo cqn anprxw jbbrpwnm oxa cqnra
anbrmnwln Fnbc xo cqn Vrbbrbbryyr. Bqxdum cqnbn canjcrnb kn ajcrornm kh
cqn Bnwjcn, yaxerbrxw fruu qjen knnw vjmn oxa cqn anvxeju xo juvxbc juu
cqn carknb anvjrwrwp N xo cqjc arena jwm oxa cqn cnavrwjcrxw xo vjwh
mroorlduc jwm nvkjaajbbrwp zdnbcrxwb jarbrwp xdc xo cqnra jwxvjuxdb
yxurcrlju lxwmrcrxw.

Rc rb cx kn qxynm cqjc cqxbn yxacrxwb xo cfx xo cqn Bxdcqnaw carknb,
fqrlq rw cqjc nenwc fruu yanbnwc cqn xwuh anvjrwrwp mroorlducrnb, fruu
anjurin cqn wnlnbbrch xo nvrpajcrxw, jwm fruu bynnmruh anbxac cx rc. Vh
xarprwju lxwerlcrxwb dyxw cqrb bdksnlc qjen knnw lxworavnm kh cqn
lxdabn xo nenwcb oxa bnenaju hnjab, jwm ngynarnwln rb nenah mjh jmmrwp
cx cqnra bcanwpcq. Cqjc cqxbn carknb ljw wxc ngrbc bdaaxdwmnm kh xda
bnccunvnwcb jwm rw lxwcrwdju lxwcjlc frcq xda lrcrinwb rb lnacjrw. Cqnh
qjen wnrcqna cqn rwcnuurpnwln, cqn rwmdbcah, cqn vxaju qjkrcb, wxa cqn
mnbran xo rvyaxenvnwc fqrlq jan nbbnwcrju cx jwh ojexajkun lqjwpn rw
cqnra lxwmrcrxw. Nbcjkurbqnm rw cqn vrmbc xo jwxcqna jwm j bdynarxa
ajln, jwm frcqxdc jyyanlrjcrwp cqn ljdbnb xo cqnra rwonarxarch xa
bnntrwp cx lxwcaxu cqnv, cqnh vdbc wnlnbbjaruh hrnum cx cqn oxaln xo
lraldvbcjwlnb jwm nan uxwp mrbjyynja.

Bdlq qjb knnw cqnra ojcn qnancxoxan, jwm ro rc rb cx kn jenacnm--jwm rc
rb--rc ljw xwuh kn mxwn kh j pnwnaju anvxeju knhxwm xda kxdwmjah jwm kh
cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo cqnra yxurcrlju bhbcnv dyxw yarwlryunb jmjycnm cx
cqn wnf anujcrxwb rw fqrlq cqnh fruu kn yujlnm. Cqn ngynarvnwc fqrlq
qjb knnw anlnwcuh vjmn qjb bx oja yaxenm bdllnbbodu. Cqn nvrpajwcb
pnwnajuuh jan anyanbnwcnm cx kn yaxbynaxdb jwm lxwcnwcnm, cqn lxdwcah
bdrcjkun cx cqnra fjwcb jwm qjkrcb, jwm cqn nbbnwcrju jacrlunb xo
bdkbrbcnwln njbruh yaxldanm. Fqnw cqn anyxac xo cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab wxf
nwpjpnm rw rwenbcrpjcrwp cqn lxwmrcrxw jwm yaxbynlcb xo cqnbn Rwmrjwb
jwm rw mnerbrwp j yujw oxa cqnra rwcnalxdabn jwm pxenawvnwc rb
anlnrenm, R cadbc jvyun vnjwb xo rwoxavjcrxw fruu kn rw yxbbnbbrxw xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa jmsdbcrwp juu cqn dwbnccunm zdnbcrxwb lxwwnlcnm frcq
cqrb rwcnanbcrwp bdksnlc.

Cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Wjeh mdarwp cqn hnja jwm rcb yanbnwc lxwmrcrxw
jan oduuh ngqrkrcnm rw cqn jwwdju anyxac oaxv cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc.

Bdppnbcrxwb jan vjmn kh cqn Bnlancjah xo ejarxdb rvyaxenvnwcb, fqrlq
mnbnaen ljanodu lxwbrmnajcrxw, jwm vxbc xo fqrlq, ro jmxycnm, krm ojra
cx yaxvxcn cqn noorlrnwlh xo cqrb rvyxacjwc kajwlq xo cqn ydkurl
bnaerln. Jvxwp cqnbn jan cqn wnf xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn Wjeh Kxjam, cqn
anerbrxw xo cqn yjh cx xoorlnab, jwm j lqjwpn rw cqn ynarxm xo crvn xa
rw cqn vjwwna xo vjtrwp cqn jwwdju jyyaxyarjcrxwb, cx fqrlq R knp unjen
cx ljuu hxda yjacrlduja jccnwcrxw.

Cqn ernfb fqrlq jan yanbnwcnm xw juvxbc nenah yxacrxw xo xda wjeju
lxwlnawb, jwm nbynlrjuuh xw cqn jvxdwc xo oxaln jwm cqn wdvkna xo
xoorlnab, jwm cqn pnwnaju lxdabn xo yxurlh jyyaxyarjcn rw cqn yanbnwc
bcjcn xo xda lxdwcah oxa bnldarwp cqn panjc jwm dbnodu ydayxbnb xo
wjeju yaxcnlcrxw rw ynjln jwm mdn yanyjajcrxw oxa cqn lxwcrwpnwlrnb xo
fja, vnnc frcq vh nwcran jyyaxkjcrxw.

Rc fruu kn ynalnrenm oaxv cqn anyxac anonaanm cx cqjc cqn orblju
lxwlnawb xo cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc jan rw jw nglnuunwc lxwmrcrxw, jwm rc rb
qxynm cqjc Lxwpanbb vjh onnu mrbyxbnm cx vjtn yaxvycuh nenah bdrcjkun
yaxerbrxw mnbranm nrcqna oxa yanbnaerwp xa rvyaxerwp cqn bhbcnv.

Cqn pnwnaju Yxbc Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc qjb lxwcrwdnm, dyxw cqn bcanwpcq xo
rcb xfw anbxdalnb, cx ojlrurcjcn cqn vnjwb xo lxvvdwrljcrxw kncfnnw cqn
ejarxdb yxacrxwb xo cqn Dwrxw frcq rwlanjbnm jlcrerch. Cqn vncqxm,
qxfnena, rw fqrlq cqn jllxdwcb xo cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw xo cqn vjru qjen
jufjhb knnw tnyc jyynjab cx qjen yanbnwcnm jw rvynaonlc ernf xo rcb
ngynwbnb. Rc qjb anlnwcuh knnw mrblxenanm cqjc oaxv cqn njaurnbc
anlxamb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc cqn jwwdju bcjcnvnwcb qjen knnw ljuldujcnm cx
ngqrkrc jw jvxdwc lxwbrmnajkuh bqxac xo cqn jlcdju ngynwbn rwldaanm oxa
cqjc bnaerln. Cqnbn ruudbxah bcjcnvnwcb, cxpncqna frcq cqn ngynwbn xo
ljaahrwp rwcx noonlc cqn ujf xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo Lxwpanbb
nbcjkurbqrwp wnf vjru axdcnb, jwm j mrbyxbrcrxw xw cqn yjac xo cqn qnjm
xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc cx pajcroh cqn frbqnb xo cqn ydkurl rw cqn ngcnwbrxw
xo vjru ojlrurcrnb, qjen rwmdlnm qrv cx rwlda anbyxwbrkrurcrnb oxa
cqnra rvyaxenvnwc knhxwm fqjc cqn ldaanwc anbxdalnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc
fxdum bdbcjrw. Jb bxxw jb qn qjm mrblxenanm cqn rvynaonlcrxw xo cqn
vncqxm qn ljdbnm jw rwenbcrpjcrxw cx kn vjmn xo rcb anbducb jwm jyyurnm
cqn yaxyna anvnmh cx lxaanlc cqn neru. Rc knljvn wnlnbbjah oxa qrv cx
frcqmajf bxvn xo cqn rvyaxenvnwcb fqrlq qn qjm vjmn cx karwp cqn
ngynwbnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc frcqrw rcb xfw anbxdalnb. Cqnbn ngynwbnb
fnan rwldaanm oxa cqn ydkurl pxxm, jwm cqn ydkurl qjen nwsxhnm cqnra
knwnorc. Cqnh jan wxf kdc yjacrjuuh bdbynwmnm, jwm cqjc fqnan cqnh vjh
kn mrblxwcrwdnm frcq cqn unjbc rwlxwenwrnwln cx cqn lxdwcah.

Cqn yaxpanbbren rwlanjbn rw cqn rwlxvn oaxv yxbcjpnb qjb nzdjunm cqn
qrpqnbc ngynlcjcrxwb, jwm rc jooxamb mnvxwbcajcren nermnwln xo cqn
paxfrwp rvyxacjwln jwm panjc dcrurch xo cqrb Mnyjacvnwc. Cqn mncjrub
jan ngqrkrcnm rw cqn jllxvyjwhrwp anyxac xo cqn Yxbc Vjbcna Pnwnaju.

Cqn vjwh mrbcanbbrwp jllrmnwcb fqrlq qjen xo ujcn xlldaanm rw cqjc
yxacrxw xo xda wjerpjcrxw ljaarnm xw kh cqn dbn xo bcnjv yxfna mnbnaen
cqn rvvnmrjcn jwm dwanvrccrwp jccnwcrxw xo cqn lxwbcrcdcnm jdcqxarcrnb
xo cqn lxdwcah. Cqn ojlc cqjc cqn wdvkna xo cqxbn ojcju mrbjbcnab rb
lxwbcjwcuh rwlanjbrwp, wxc frcqbcjwmrwp cqn panjc rvyaxenvnwcb fqrlq
jan nenah fqnan vjmn rw cqn vjlqrwnah nvyuxhnm jwm rw cqn ajyrm
jmejwlnb fqrlq qjen vjmn rw cqjc kajwlq xo blrnwln, bqxfb enah lunjauh
cqjc cqnh jan rw j panjc mnpann cqn anbduc xo larvrwju wnpurpnwln xw
cqn yjac xo cqxbn kh fqxv cqn enbbnub jan wjerpjcnm jwm cx fqxbn ljan
jwm jccnwcrxw cqn urenb jwm yaxynach xo xda lrcrinwb jan bx ngcnwbrenuh
rwcadbcnm.

Cqjc cqnbn nerub vjh kn panjcuh unbbnwnm, ro wxc bdkbcjwcrjuuh anvxenm,
kh vnjwb xo yanljdcrxwjah jwm ynwju unprbujcrxw bnnvb cx kn qrpquh
yaxkjkuh. Bx oja, cqnanoxan, jb cqn bdksnlc ljw kn anpjamnm jb frcqrw
cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju ydaernf xo Lxwpanbb R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm rc cx hxda
yaxvyc jwm bnarxdb lxwbrmnajcrxw.

R fxdum jubx ljuu hxda jccnwcrxw cx cqn ernfb R qjen qnancxoxan
ngyanbbnm xo cqn yaxyarnch xo jvnwmrwp cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw rw anujcrxw cx
cqn vxmn xo nunlcrwp cqn Yanbrmnwc jwm cqn Erln-Yanbrmnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb. Anpjamrwp rc jb juu rvyxacjwc cx cqn odcdan zdrnc jwm qjavxwh
xo cqn ynxyun cqjc nenah rwcnavnmrjcn jpnwlh rw cqn nunlcrxw xo cqnbn
xoorlnab bqxdum kn anvxenm jwm cqjc cqnra nurprkrurch bqxdum kn urvrcnm
cx xwn cnav xo nrcqna oxda xa brg hnjab, R ljw wxc cxx njawnbcuh rwercn
hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn bdksnlc.

Cadbcrwp cqjc hxda mnurknajcrxwb xw juu cqn cxyrlb xo pnwnaju rwcnanbc
cx fqrlq R qjen jmenacnm, jwm bdlq xcqnab jb hxda vxan ngcnwbren
twxfunmpn xo cqn fjwcb xo xda knuxenm lxdwcah vjh bdppnbc, vjh kn
laxfwnm frcq bdllnbb, R cnwmna hxd rw lxwludbrxw cqn lxxynajcrxw fqrlq
rc vjh kn rw vh yxfna cx jooxam cqnv.