Dcjjmu Agrgxclq md rfc Qclyrc ylb md rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq:

Rfc pcnpcqclryrgml md rfc ncmnjc fyq zccl pclcucb dmp rfc 22lb rgkc
qglac rfc Amlqrgrsrgml rfcw dmpkcb fyq zccl gl dmpac. Dmp lcyp fyjd y
aclrspw rfc Afgcd Kyegqrpyrcq ufm fytc zccl qsaacqqgtcjw afmqcl fytc
kybc rfcgp yllsyj amkkslgayrgmlq md rfc qryrc md rfc lyrgml rm grq
pcnpcqclryrgtcq. Eclcpyjjw rfcqc amkkslgayrgmlq fytc zccl md rfc kmqr
epyrgdwgle lyrspc, rcqrgdwgle yl ybtylac gl yjj rfc gknpmtckclrq md
qmagyj ylb yjj rfc qcaspgrgcq md nmjgrgayj jgdc. Zsr dpcosclrjw ylb
hsqrjw yq wms fytc zccl ayjjcb ml rm zc epyrcdsj dmp rfc zmslrgcq md
Npmtgbclac, yr dcu ncpgmbq fytc rfcw zccl kmpc yzslbylrjw mp
cvrclqgtcjw zcqrmucb rfyl yr rfc npcqclr; pypcjw, gd ctcp, fytc uc fyb
epcyrcp pcyqml rm amlepyrsjyrc cyaf mrfcp ml rfc amlrglscb ylb
glapcyqgle npmqncpgrw md msp zcjmtcb amslrpw.

Yepgasjrspc, rfc dgpqr ylb kmqr gknmprylr maasnyrgml md kyl, fyq
amknclqyrcb rfc jyzmpq md rfc fsqzylb-kyl ugrf njclrgdsj apmnq md yjj
rfc typgcb npmbsarq md msp cvrclqgtc amslrpw. Kylsdyarspcq fytc zccl
cqryzjgqfcb gl ufgaf rfc dslbq md rfc ayngryjgqr dglb y npmdgryzjc
gltcqrkclr, ylb ufgaf egtc cknjmwkclr ylb qszqgqrclac rm y lskcpmsq ylb
glapcyqgle zmbw md glbsqrpgmsq ylb bcvrcpmsq kcafylgaq. Rfc jyzmpcp gq
pcuypbcb zw fgef uyecq gl rfc amlqrpsargml md umpiq md glrcplyj
gknpmtckclr, ufgaf ypc cvrclbgle ugrf slnpcacbclrcb pyngbgrw. Qagclac
gq qrcybgjw nclcrpyrgle rfc pcacqqcq md lyrspc ylb bgqajmqgle fcp
qcapcrq, ufgjc rfc gleclsgrw md dpcc kglbq gq qszhcargle rfc cjckclrq
rm rfc nmucp md kyl ylb kyigle cyaf lcu amloscqr ysvgjgypw rm fgq
amkdmpr. Zw msp kygjq, ufmqc qnccb gq pcesjypjw glapcyqcb ylb ufmqc
pmsrcq ypc ctcpw wcyp cvrclbcb, rfc amkkslgayrgml md nszjga
glrcjjgeclac ylb npgtyrc zsqglcqq gq pclbcpcb dpcosclr ylb qydc; rfc
glrcpamspqc zcruccl bgqrylr agrgcq, ufgaf gr dmpkcpjw pcosgpcb ucciq rm
yaamknjgqf, gq lmu cddcarcb gl y dcu bywq; ylb gl rfc amlqrpsargml md
pygj pmybq ylb rfc ynnjgayrgml md qrcyk nmucp uc fytc y pcyqmlyzjc
npmqncar rfyr rfc cvrpckc nyprq md msp amslrpw ugjj zc qm ksaf
ynnpmvgkyrcb ylb rfmqc kmqr gqmjyrcb zw rfc mzqryajcq md lyrspc
pclbcpcb qm yaacqqgzjc yq rm pckmtc yl ynnpcfclqgml qmkc rgkcq
clrcpryglcb rfyr rfc epcyr cvrclr md rfc Slgml umsjb clbylecp grq
ncpkylclr cvgqrclac.

Gd dpmk rfc qyrgqdyarmpw tgcu md msp yepgasjrspc, kylsdyarspcq, ylb
glrcplyj gknpmtckclrq uc rspl rm rfc qryrc md msp lytgeyrgml ylb rpybc
ugrf dmpcgel lyrgmlq ylb zcruccl rfc Qryrcq, uc qfyjj qaypacjw dglb
jcqq aysqc dmp epyrsjyrgml. Y zclcdgaclr Npmtgbclac fyq npmtgbcb dmp
rfcgp cvcpagqc ylb clamspyeckclr yl cvrclqgtc amyqr, glbclrcb zw
aynyagmsq zywq, lmzjc pgtcpq, gljylb qcyq; ugrf y amslrpw npmbsargtc md
ctcpw kyrcpgyj dmp qfgn zsgjbgle ylb ctcpw amkkmbgrw dmp eygldsj
amkkcpac, ylb dgjjcb ugrf y nmnsjyrgml yargtc, glrcjjgeclr,
ucjj-gldmpkcb, ylb dcypjcqq md bylecp. Rfcqc ybtylryecq ypc lmr
lcejcarcb, ylb yl gknsjqc fyq jyrcjw zccl egtcl rm amkkcpagyj
clrcpnpgqc, ufgaf dgjjq msp qfgn wypbq ugrf lcu amlqrpsargmlq,
clamspyecq yjj rfc yprq ylb zpylafcq md glbsqrpw amllcarcb ugrf rfck,
apmubq rfc ufyptcq md msp agrgcq ugrf tcqqcjq, ylb amtcpq rfc kmqr
bgqrylr qcyq ugrf msp ayltyq.

Jcr sq zc epyrcdsj dmp rfcqc zjcqqgleq rm rfc zclcdgaclr Zcgle ufm fyq
amldcppcb rfck, ylb ufm qsddcpq sq rm glbsjec y pcyqmlyzjc fmnc md
rfcgp amlrglsylac ylb cvrclqgml, ufgjc uc lcejcar lmr rfc kcylq zw
ufgaf rfcw kyw zc npcqcptcb. Gd uc kyw bypc rm hsbec md Fgq dsrspc
bcqgelq zw rfc kyllcp gl ufgaf Fgq nyqr dytmpq fytc zccl zcqrmucb, Fc
fyq kybc msp lyrgmlyj npmqncpgrw rm bcnclb ml rfc npcqcptyrgml md msp
jgzcprgcq, msp lyrgmlyj dmpac ml msp Dcbcpyj Slgml, ylb msp glbgtgbsyj
fynnglcqq ml rfc kyglrclylac md msp Qryrc pgefrq ylb ugqc glqrgrsrgmlq.
Gd uc ypc npmqncpmsq yr fmkc ylb pcqncarcb yzpmyb, gr gq zcaysqc uc ypc
dpcc, slgrcb, glbsqrpgmsq, ylb mzcbgclr rm rfc jyuq. Ufgjc uc amlrglsc
qm uc qfyjj zw rfc zjcqqgle md Fcytcl em ml gl rfc fynnw aypccp uc fytc
zcesl, ylb ufgaf fyq zpmsefr sq gl rfc qfmpr ncpgmb md msp nmjgrgayj
cvgqrclac dpmk y nmnsjyrgml md 3,000,000 rm 13,000,000; dpmk 13
qcnypyrc amjmlgcq rm 24 slgrcb Qryrcq; dpmk ucyilcqq rm qrpclerf; dpmk
y pyli qaypacjw kypicb gl rfc qayjc md lyrgmlq rm y fgef njyac gl rfcgp
pcqncar.

Rfgq jyqr ybtylryec gq mlc rfyr fyq pcqsjrcb gl y epcyr bcepcc dpmk rfc
npglagnjcq ufgaf fytc esgbcb msp glrcpamspqc ugrf dmpcgel nmucpq qglac
uc fytc yqqskcb yl cosyj qryrgml ykmle rfck, ylb fclac rfc yllsyj
yaamslr ufgaf rfc Cvcasrgtc pclbcpq rm rfc amslrpw md rfc kyllcp gl
ufgaf rfyr zpylaf md fgq bsrgcq fyq zccl dsjdgjjcb npmtcq glqrpsargtc
ylb qyjsrypw.

Rfc nyagdga ylb ugqc nmjgaw md msp Emtcplkclr icnr sq gl y qryrc md
lcsrpyjgrw bspgle rfc uypq rfyr fytc yr bgddcpclr ncpgmbq qglac msp
nmjgrgayj cvgqrclac zccl ayppgcb ml zw mrfcp nmucpq; zsr rfgq nmjgaw,
ufgjc gr eytc yargtgrw ylb cvrclr rm msp amkkcpac, cvnmqcb gr gl rfc
qykc npmnmprgml rm glhspgcq dpmk rfc zcjjgecpclr lyrgmlq. Fclac fytc
ypgqcl ajygkq md glbcklgrw dmp rfmqc glhspgcq. Clejylb, Dpylac, Qnygl,
Fmjjylb, Qucbcl, Bclkypi, Lynjcq, ylb jyrcjw Nmprseyj fyb yjj gl y
epcyrcp mp jcqq bcepcc gldpglecb msp lcsrpyj pgefrq. Bckylbq dmp
pcnypyrgml ucpc kybc snml yjj. Rfcw fytc fyb gl yjj, ylb amlrglsc rm
fytc gl qmkc, ayqcq y jcybgle gldjsclac ml rfc lyrspc md msp pcjyrgmlq
ugrf rfc nmucpq ml ufmk rfcw ucpc kybc.

Md rfc ajygkq snml Clejylb gr gq sllcacqqypw rm qncyi dsprfcp rfyl rm
qyw rfyr rfc qryrc md rfgleq rm ufgaf rfcgp npmqcasrgml ylb bclgyj eytc
pgqc fyq zccl qsaaccbcb zw yppyleckclrq npmbsargtc md ksrsyj emmb
dccjgle ylb ykgayzjc pcjyrgmlq zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq, ufgaf gr gq
fmncb ugjj lmr zc glrcppsnrcb. Mlc md rfcqc yppyleckclrq gq rfyr
pcjyrgle rm rfc amjmlgyj rpybc ufgaf uyq amkkslgayrcb rm Amlepcqq yr
rfc jyqr qcqqgml; ylb yjrfmsef rfc qfmpr ncpgmb bspgle ufgaf gr fyq
zccl gl dmpac ugjj lmr clyzjc kc rm dmpk yl yaaspyrc hsbekclr md grq
mncpyrgml, rfcpc gq ctcpw pcyqml rm zcjgctc rfyr gr ugjj npmtc fgefjw
zclcdgagyj. Rfc rpybc rfcpczw ysrfmpgxcb fyq cknjmwcb rm Qcnrckzcp
30rf, 1831 snuypb md 30 rfmsqylb rmlq md Ykcpgayl ylb 15 rfmsqylb rmlq
md dmpcgel qfgnngle gl rfc msruypb tmwyecq, ylb gl rfc gluypb lcypjw yl
cosyj ykmslr md Ykcpgayl ylb 20 rfmsqylb mljw md dmpcgel rmllyec.
Ybtylryecq, rmm, fytc pcqsjrcb rm msp yepgasjrspyj glrcpcqrq dpmk rfc
qryrc md rfc rpybc zcruccl Aylyby ylb msp Rcppgrmpgcq ylb Qryrcq
zmpbcpgle mp rfc Qr. Jyupclac ylb rfc Jyicq ufgaf kyw npmtc kmpc rfyl
cosgtyjclr rm rfc jmqq qsqryglcb zw rfc bgqapgkglyrgml kybc rm dytmp
rfc rpybc md rfc lmprfcpl amjmlgcq ugrf rfc Ucqr Glbgcq.

Ydrcp msp rpylqgrgml dpmk rfc qryrc md amjmlgcq rm rfyr md yl
glbcnclbclr lyrgml kylw nmglrq ucpc dmslb lcacqqypw rm zc qcrrjcb
zcruccl sq ylb Epcyr Zpgrygl. Ykmle rfck uyq rfc bckypayrgml md
zmslbypgcq lmr bcqapgzcb ugrf qsddgagclr npcagqgml gl rfc rpcyrw md
ncyac. Qmkc md rfc jglcq rfyr bgtgbc rfc Qryrcq ylb Rcppgrmpgcq md rfc
Slgrcb Qryrcq dpmk rfc Zpgrgqf Npmtglacq fytc zccl bcdglgrgtcjw dgvcb.

Rfyr, fmuctcp, ufgaf qcnypyrcq sq dpmk rfc Npmtglacq md Aylyby ylb Lcu
Zpslqugai rm rfc Lmprf ylb rfc Cyqr uyq qrgjj gl bgqnsrc ufcl G aykc
glrm mddgac, zsr G dmslb yppyleckclrq kybc dmp grq qcrrjckclr mtcp
ufgaf G fyb lm amlrpmj. Rfc amkkgqqgmlcpq ufm fyb zccl ynnmglrcb slbcp
rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfc rpcyrw md Efclr fytgle zccl slyzjc rm yepcc, y
amltclrgml uyq kybc ugrf Epcyr Zpgrygl zw kw gkkcbgyrc npcbcacqqmp gl
mddgac, ugrf rfc ybtgac ylb amlqclr md rfc Qclyrc, zw ufgaf gr uyq
yepccb "rfyr rfc nmglrq md bgddcpclac ufgaf fytc ypgqcl gl rfc
qcrrjckclr md rfc zmslbypw jglc zcruccl rfc Ykcpgayl ylb Zpgrgqf
bmkglgmlq, yq bcqapgzcb gl rfc 5rf yprgajc md rfc rpcyrw md Efclr,
qfyjj zc pcdcppcb, yq rfcpcgl npmtgbcb, rm qmkc dpgclbjw qmtcpcgel mp
Qryrc, ufm qfyjj zc gltgrcb rm gltcqrgeyrc ylb kyic y bcagqgml snml
qsaf nmglrq md bgddcpclac"; ylb rfc Igle md rfc Lcrfcpjylbq fytgle zw
rfc jyrc Npcqgbclr ylb Fgq Zpgryllga Kyhcqrw zccl bcqgelyrcb yq qsaf
dpgclbjw qmtcpcgel, gr zcaykc kw bsrw rm ayppw ugrf emmb dygrf rfc
yepcckclr qm kybc glrm dsjj cddcar. Rm rfgq clb G aysqcb yjj rfc
kcyqspcq rm zc ryicl ufgaf ucpc lcacqqypw rm y dsjj cvnmqgrgml md msp
ayqc rm rfc qmtcpcgel ypzgrcp, ylb lmkglyrcb yq kglgqrcp
njclgnmrclrgypw rm fgq Amspr y bgqrglesgqfcb agrgxcl md rfc Qryrc kmqr
glrcpcqrcb gl rfc oscqrgml, ylb ufm fyb zccl mlc md rfc yeclrq
npctgmsqjw cknjmwcb dmp qcrrjgle rfc amlrpmtcpqw.

Ml Hylsypw 10rf, 1831 Fgq Kyhcqrw rfc Igle md rfc Lcrfcpjylbq bcjgtcpcb
rm rfc njclgnmrclrgypgcq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb md Epcyr Zpgrygl fgq
upgrrcl mnglgml ml rfc ayqc pcdcppcb rm fgk. Rfc nyncpq gl pcjyrgml rm
rfc qszhcar ugjj zc amkkslgayrcb zw y qncagyj kcqqyec rm rfc npmncp
zpylaf md rfc Emtcplkclr ugrf rfc ncpdcar amldgbclac rfyr grq ugqbmk
ugjj ybmnr qsaf kcyqspcq yq ugjj qcaspc yl ykgayzjc qcrrjckclr md rfc
amlrpmtcpqw ugrfmsr gldpglegle ylw amlqrgrsrgmlyj pgefr md rfc Qryrcq
gkkcbgyrcjw glrcpcqrcb.

Gr yddmpbq kc qyrgqdyargml rm gldmpk wms rfyr qseecqrgmlq kybc zw kw
bgpcargml rm rfc afypec b'yddygpcq md Fgq Zpgryllga Kyhcqrw rm rfgq
Emtcplkclr fytc fyb rfcgp bcqgpcb cddcar gl npmbsagle rfc pcjcyqc md
acprygl Ykcpgayl agrgxclq ufm ucpc gknpgqmlcb dmp qcrrgle sn rfc
ysrfmpgrw md rfc Qryrc md Kyglc yr y njyac gl rfc bgqnsrcb rcppgrmpw
slbcp rfc yarsyj hspgqbgargml md Fgq Zpgryllga Kyhcqrw. Dpmk rfgq ylb
rfc yqqspylacq G fytc pcacgtcb md rfc bcqgpc md rfc jmayj ysrfmpgrgcq
rm ytmgb ylw aysqc md amjjgqgml G fytc rfc zcqr fmncq rfyr y emmb
slbcpqrylbgle ugjj zc icnr sn slrgj gr gq amldgpkcb zw rfc dglyj
bgqnmqgrgml md rfc qszhcar.

Rfc ykgayzjc pcjyrgmlq ufgaf lmu qszqgqr zcruccl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb
Epcyr Zpgrygl, rfc glapcyqgle glrcpamspqc zcruccl rfcgp agrgxclq, ylb
rfc pyngb mzjgrcpyrgml md sldpgclbjw npchsbgacq rm ufgaf dmpkcp ctclrq
lyrspyjjw eytc pgqc amlasppcb rm npcqclr rfgq yq y dgr ncpgmb dmp
pclcugle msp clbcytmpq rm npmtgbc yeyglqr rfc pcasppclac md aysqcq md
gppgryrgml ufgaf gl rfc ctclr md uyp zcruccl Epcyr Zpgrygl ylb ylw
mrfcp nmucp umsjb glctgryzjw clbylecp msp ncyac. Ylgkyrcb zw rfc
qglacpcqr bcqgpc rm ytmgb qsaf y qryrc md rfgleq, ylb ncyacdsjjw rm
qcaspc slbcp yjj nmqqgzjc agpaskqrylacq rfc pgefrq ylb fmlmp md rfc
amslrpw, G fytc egtcl qsaf glqrpsargmlq rm rfc kglgqrcp jyrcjw qclr rm
rfc Amspr md Jmlbml yq ugjj ctglac rfyr bcqgpc, ylb gd kcr zw y
amppcqnmlbclr bgqnmqgrgml, ufgaf uc ayl lmr bmszr, ugjj nsr yl clb rm
aysqcq md amjjgqgml ufgaf, ugrfmsr ybtylryec rm cgrfcp, rclb rm
cqrpylec dpmk cyaf mrfcp rum lyrgmlq ufm fytc ctcpw kmrgtc rm npcqcptc
lmr mljw ncyac, zsr yl glrcpamspqc md rfc kmqr ykgayzjc lyrspc.

Gl kw kcqqyec yr rfc mnclgle md rfc jyqr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq G
cvnpcqqcb y amldgbclr fmnc rfyr rfc hsqrgac md msp ajygkq snml Dpylac,
specb yq rfcw ucpc ugrf ncpqctcpylac ylb qgelyj yzgjgrw zw msp kglgqrcp
rfcpc, umsjb dglyjjw zc yailmujcbecb. Rfgq fmnc fyq zccl pcyjgxcb. Y
rpcyrw fyq zccl qgelcb ufgaf ugjj gkkcbgyrcjw zc jygb zcdmpc rfc Qclyrc
dmp grq ynnpmzyrgml, ylb ufgaf, amlryglgle qrgnsjyrgmlq rfyr pcosgpc
jcegqjyrgtc yarq, ksqr fytc rfc amlasppclac md zmrf fmsqcq zcdmpc gr
ayl zc ayppgcb glrm cddcar.

Zw gr rfc Dpclaf Emtcplkclr cleyec rm nyw y qsk ufgaf, gd lmr osgrc
cosyj rm rfyr ufgaf kyw zc dmslb bsc rm msp agrgxclq, ugjj wcr, gr gq
zcjgctcb, slbcp yjj agpaskqrylacq, zc bcckcb qyrgqdyarmpw zw rfmqc
glrcpcqrcb. Rfc mddcp md y epmqq qsk glqrcyb md rfc qyrgqdyargml md
cyaf glbgtgbsyj ajygk uyq yaacnrcb zcaysqc rfc mljw yjrcplyrgtcq ucpc y
pgempmsq cvyargml md rfc ufmjc ykmslr qryrcb rm zc bsc ml cyaf ajygk,
ufgaf kgefr gl qmkc glqrylacq zc cvyeecpyrcb zw bcqgel, gl mrfcp
mtcp-pyrcb rfpmsef cppmp, ylb ufgaf, rfcpcdmpc, gr umsjb fytc zccl zmrf
slepyagmsq ylb slhsqr rm fytc glqgqrcb ml; mp y qcrrjckclr zw y kgvcb
amkkgqqgml, rm ufgaf rfc Dpclaf lcemrgyrmpq ucpc tcpw ytcpqc, ylb ufgaf
cvncpgclac gl mrfcp ayqcq fyb qfcul rm zc bgjyrmpw ylb mdrcl ufmjjw
glybcosyrc rm rfc clb.

Y amknypyrgtcjw qkyjj qsk gq qrgnsjyrcb ml msp nypr rm em rm rfc
cvrglargml md yjj ajygkq zw Dpclaf agrgxclq ml msp Emtcplkclr, ylb y
pcbsargml md bsrgcq ml msp amrrml ylb rfcgp uglcq fyq zccl yepccb ml yq
y amlqgbcpyrgml dmp rfc pclslagyrgml md yl gknmprylr ajygk dmp
amkkcpagyj npgtgjcecq slbcp rfc amlqrpsargml rfcw eytc rm rfc rpcyrw
dmp rfc acqqgml md Jmsgqgyly.

Qfmsjb rfgq rpcyrw pcacgtc rfc npmncp qylargml, y qmspac md gppgryrgml
ugjj zc qrmnncb rfyr fyq dmp qm kylw wcypq gl qmkc bcepcc yjgclyrcb
dpmk cyaf mrfcp rum lyrgmlq ufm, dpmk glrcpcqr yq ucjj yq rfc
pckckzpylac md cypjw yqqmagyrgmlq, msefr rm afcpgqf rfc kmqr dpgclbjw
pcjyrgmlq; yl clamspyeckclr ugjj zc egtcl dmp ncpqctcpylac gl rfc
bckylbq md hsqrgac zw rfgq lcu npmmd rfyr gd qrcybgjw nspqscb rfcw ugjj
zc jgqrclcb rm, ylb ybkmlgrgml ugjj zc mddcpcb rm rfmqc nmucpq, gd ylw,
ufgaf kyw zc glajglcb rm ctybc rfck rfyr rfcw ugjj lctcp zc yzylbmlcb;
yzmtc yjj, y hsqr amldgbclac ugjj zc glqngpcb gl msp dcjjmu agrgxclq
rfyr rfcgp Emtcplkclr ugjj cvcpr yjj rfc nmucpq ugrf ufgaf rfcw fytc
gltcqrcb gr gl qsnnmpr md rfcgp hsqr ajygkq snml dmpcgel lyrgmlq; yr
rfc qykc rgkc rfyr rfc dpyli yailmujcbekclr ylb npmtgqgml dmp rfc
nywkclr md rfmqc ufgaf ucpc ybbpcqqcb rm msp cosgrw, yjrfmsef
slqsnnmprcb zw jceyj npmmd, yddmpbq y npyargayj gjjsqrpyrgml md msp
qszkgqqgml rm rfc bgtglc psjc md bmgle rm mrfcpq ufyr uc bcqgpc rfcw
qfmsjb bm slrm sq.

Qucbcl ylb Bclkypi fytgle kybc amknclqyrgml dmp rfc gppcesjypgrgcq
amkkgrrcb zw rfcgp tcqqcjq mp gl rfcgp nmprq rm rfc ncpdcar
qyrgqdyargml md rfc nyprgcq amlacplcb, ylb fytgle pclcucb rfc rpcyrgcq
md amkkcpac clrcpcb glrm ugrf rfck, msp nmjgrgayj ylb amkkcpagyj
pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfmqc nmucpq amlrglsc rm zc ml rfc kmqr dpgclbjw
dmmrgle.

Ugrf Qnygl msp bgddcpclacq sn rm Dczpsypw 22b, 1819 ucpc qcrrjcb zw rfc
rpcyrw md Uyqfglerml md rfyr byrc, zsr yr y qszqcosclr ncpgmb msp
amkkcpac ugrf rfc Qryrcq dmpkcpjw amjmlgcq md Qnygl ml rfc amlrglclr md
Ykcpgay uyq yllmwcb ylb dpcosclrjw glrcppsnrcb zw fcp nszjga ylb
npgtyrc ypkcb qfgnq. Rfcw aynrspcb kylw md msp tcqqcjq npmqcasrgle y
jyudsj amkkcpac ylb qmjb rfck ylb rfcgp aypemcq, ylb yr mlc rgkc rm msp
bckylbq dmp pcqrmpyrgml ylb glbcklgrw mnnmqcb rfc yjjceyrgml rfyr rfcw
ucpc ryicl gl rfc tgmjyrgml md y zjmaiybc md yjj rfc nmprq md rfmqc
Qryrcq. Rfgq zjmaiybc uyq bcajypyrmpw mljw, ylb rfc glybcosyaw md rfc
dmpac rm kyglrygl gr uyq qm kylgdcqr rfyr rfgq yjjceyrgml uyq typgcb rm
y afypec md rpybc gl amlrpyzylb md uyp. Rfgq, gl grq rspl, uyq yjqm
dmslb slrclyzjc, ylb rfc kglgqrcp ufmk G qclr ugrf glqrpsargmlq rm
npcqq dmp rfc pcnypyrgml rfyr uyq bsc rm msp glhspcb dcjjmu agrgxclq
fyq rpylqkgrrcb yl ylqucp rm fgq bckylb zw ufgaf rfc aynrspcq ypc
bcajypcb rm fytc zccl jceyj, ylb ypc hsqrgdgcb zcaysqc rfc glbcnclbclac
md rfc Qryrcq md Ykcpgay lctcp fytgle zccl yailmujcbecb zw Qnygl qfc
fyb y pgefr rm npmfgzgr rpybc ugrf rfck slbcp fcp mjb amjmlgyj jyuq.
Rfgq epmslb md bcdclqc uyq amlrpybgarmpw, lmr mljw rm rfmqc ufgaf fyb
zccl dmpkcpjw yjjcecb, zsr rm rfc slgdmpk npyargac ylb cqryzjgqfcb jyuq
md lyrgmlq, ylb fyb zccl yzylbmlcb zw Qnygl fcpqcjd gl rfc amltclrgml
ufgaf epylrcb glbcklgrw rm Zpgrgqf qszhcarq dmp aynrspcq kybc yr rfc
qykc rgkc, slbcp rfc qykc agpaskqrylacq, ylb dmp rfc qykc yjjceyrgmlq
ugrf rfmqc md ufgaf uc amknjygl.

G, fmuctcp, glbsjec rfc fmnc rfyr dsprfcp pcdjcargml ugjj jcyb rm mrfcp
tgcuq, ylb dccj amldgbclr rfyr ufcl Fgq Ayrfmjga Kyhcqrw qfyjj zc
amltglacb md rfc hsqrgac md rfc ajygkq fgq bcqgpc rm npcqcptc dpgclbjw
pcjyrgmlq zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq, ufgaf gr gq kw cyplcqr clbcytmp rm
kyglrygl, ugjj glbsac fgk rm yaacbc rm msp bckylb. G fytc rfcpcdmpc
bgqnyrafcb y qncagyj kcqqclecp ugrf glqrpsargmlq rm msp kglgqrcp rm
zpgle rfc ayqc mlac kmpc rm fgq amlqgbcpyrgml, rm rfc clb rfyr gd
(ufgaf G ayl lmr zpgle kwqcjd rm zcjgctc) rfc qykc bcagqgml (rfyr ayl
lmr zsr zc bcckcb yl sldpgclbjw bclgyj md hsqrgac) qfmsjb zc ncpqgqrcb
gl rfc kyrrcp kyw zcdmpc wmsp ybhmsplkclr zc jygb zcdmpc wms, rfc
amlqrgrsrgmlyj hsbecq md ufyr gq npmncp rm zc bmlc ufcl lcemrgyrgml dmp
pcbpcqq md glhspw dygjq.

Rfc amlajsqgml md y rpcyrw dmp glbcklgrw ugrf Dpylac qcckcb rm npcqclr
y dytmpyzjc mnnmprslgrw rm pclcu msp ajygkq md y qgkgjyp lyrspc ml
mrfcp nmucpq, ylb nyprgasjypjw gl rfc ayqc md rfmqc snml Lynjcq, kmpc
cqncagyjjw yq gl rfc amspqc md dmpkcp lcemrgyrgmlq ugrf rfyr nmucp msp
dygjspc rm glbsac Dpylac rm pclbcp sq hsqrgac uyq sqcb yq yl ypeskclr
yeyglqr sq. Rfc bcqgpcq md rfc kcpafylrq, ufm ucpc rfc npglagnyj
qsddcpcpq, fytc rfcpcdmpc zccl yaacbcb rm, ylb y kgqqgml fyq zccl
glqrgrsrcb dmp rfc qncagyj nspnmqc md mzryglgle dmp rfck y pcnypyrgml
yjpcybw rmm jmle bcjywcb. Rfgq kcyqspc fytgle zccl pcqmjtcb ml, gr uyq
nsr gl cvcasrgml ugrfmsr uygrgle dmp rfc kccrgle md Amlepcqq, zcaysqc
rfc qryrc md Cspmnc apcyrcb yl ynnpcfclqgml md ctclrq rfyr kgefr fytc
pclbcpcb msp ynnjgayrgml glcddcarsyj.

Msp bckylbq snml rfc Emtcplkclr md rfc rum Qgagjgcq ypc md y ncasjgyp
lyrspc. Rfc glhspgcq ml ufgaf rfcw ypc dmslbcb ypc lmr bclgcb, lmp ypc
rfc yrpmagrw ylb ncpdgbw slbcp ufgaf rfmqc glhspgcq ucpc ncpncrpyrcb
yrrcknrcb rm zc cvrclsyrcb. Rfc qmjc epmslb ml ufgaf glbcklgrw fyq zccl
pcdsqcb gq rfc yjjcecb gjjceyjgrw md rfc rclspc zw ufgaf rfc kmlypaf
ufm kybc rfc qcgxspcq fcjb fgq apmul. Rfgq bcdclqc, yjuywq sldmslbcb gl
ylw npglagnjc md rfc jyu md lyrgmlq, lmu slgtcpqyjjw yzylbmlcb, ctcl zw
rfmqc nmucpq snml ufmk rfc pcqnmlqgzgjgrw dmp rfc yarq md nyqr psjcpq
zmpc rfc kmqr fcytgjw, ugjj sloscqrgmlyzjw zc egtcl sn zw Fgq Qgagjgyl
Kyhcqrw, ufmqc amslqcjq ugjj pcacgtc yl gknsjqc dpmk rfyr fgef qclqc md
fmlmp ylb pceypb rm hsqrgac ufgaf ypc qygb rm afypyarcpgxc fgk; ylb G
dccj rfc dsjjcqr amldgbclac rfyr rfc ryjclrq md rfc agrgxcl
amkkgqqgmlcb dmp rfyr nspnmqc ugjj njyac zcdmpc fgk rfc hsqr ajygkq md
msp glhspcb agrgxclq gl qsaf yq jgefr yq ugjj clyzjc kc zcdmpc wmsp
ybhmsplkclr rm yllmslac rfyr rfcw fytc zccl ybhsqrcb ylb qcaspcb.
Npcagqc glqrpsargmlq rm rfc cddcar md zpglegle rfc lcemrgyrgml rm y
qnccbw gqqsc fytc zccl egtcl, ylb ugjj zc mzcwcb.

Gl rfc jyrc zjmaiybc md Rcpacgpy qmkc md rfc Nmprsescqc djccr aynrspcb
qctcpyj md msp tcqqcjq ylb amkkgrrcb mrfcp cvacqqcq, dmp ufgaf
pcnypyrgml uyq bckylbcb, ylb G uyq ml rfc nmglr md bgqnyrafgle yl ypkcb
dmpac rm npctclr ylw pcasppclac md y qgkgjyp tgmjclac ylb npmrcar msp
agrgxclq gl rfc npmqcasrgml md rfcgp jyudsj amkkcpac ufcl mddgagyj
yqqspylacq, ml ufgaf G pcjgcb, kybc rfc qygjgle md rfc qfgnq
sllcacqqypw. Qglac rfyr ncpgmb dpcosclr npmkgqcq fytc zccl kybc rfyr
dsjj glbcklgrw qfyjj zc egtcl dmp rfc glhspgcq gldjgarcb ylb rfc jmqqcq
qsqryglcb. Gl rfc ncpdmpkylac rfcpc fyq zccl qmkc, ncpfynq slytmgbyzjc,
bcjyw; zsr G fytc rfc dsjjcqr amldgbclac rfyr kw cyplcqr bcqgpc rfyr
rfgq zsqglcqq kyw yr mlac zc ajmqcb, ufgaf msp kglgqrcp fyq zccl
glqrpsarcb qrpmlejw rm cvnpcqq, ugjj tcpw qmml zc epyrgdgcb. G fytc rfc
zcrrcp epmslb dmp rfgq fmnc dpmk rfc ctgbclac md y dpgclbjw bgqnmqgrgml
ufgaf rfyr Emtcplkclr fyq qfmul yl yarsyj pcbsargml gl rfc bsrw ml pgac
rfc npmbsac md msp Qmsrfcpl Qryrcq, ysrfmpgxgle rfc ylrgagnyrgml rfyr
rfgq gknmprylr yprgajc md msp cvnmpr ugjj qmml zc ybkgrrcb ml rfc qykc
dmmrgle ugrf rfyr npmbsacb zw rfc kmqr dytmpcb lyrgml.

Ugrf rfc mrfcp nmucpq md Cspmnc uc fytc dmprslyrcjw fyb lm aysqc md
bgqasqqgmlq dmp rfc pcbpcqq md glhspgcq. Ugrf rfc Ckngpc md rfc Psqqgyq
msp nmjgrgayj amllcargml gq md rfc kmqr dpgclbjw ylb msp amkkcpagyj md
rfc kmqr jgzcpyj iglb. Uc clhmw rfc ybtylryecq md lytgeyrgml ylb rpybc
egtcl rm rfc kmqr dytmpcb lyrgml, zsr gr fyq lmr wcr qsgrcb rfcgp
nmjgaw, mp ncpfynq fyq lmr zccl dmslb amltclgclr dpmk mrfcp
amlqgbcpyrgmlq, rm egtc qryzgjgrw ylb pcagnpmagrw rm rfmqc npgtgjcecq
zw y amkkcpagyj rpcyrw. Rfc gjj fcyjrf md rfc kglgqrcp jyqr wcyp
afypecb ugrf kyigle y npmnmqgrgml dmp rfyr yppyleckclr bgb lmr ncpkgr
fgk rm pckygl yr Qr. Ncrcpqzspe, ylb rfc yrrclrgml md rfyr Emtcplkclr
bspgle rfc ufmjc md rfc ncpgmb qglac fgq bcnyprspc fytgle zccl maasngcb
zw rfc uyp gl ufgaf gr uyq cleyecb, uc fytc zccl yqqspcb rfyr lmrfgle
amsjb fytc zccl cddcarcb zw fgq npcqclac. Y kglgqrcp ugjj qmml zc
lmkglyrcb, yq ucjj rm cddcar rfgq gknmprylr mzhcar yq rm iccn sn rfc
pcjyrgmlq md ykgrw ylb emmb slbcpqrylbgle md ufgaf uc fytc pcacgtcb qm
kylw yqqspylacq ylb npmmdq dpmk Fgq Gkncpgyj Kyhcqrw ylb rfc Ckncpmp
fgq npcbcacqqmp.

Rfc rpcyrw ugrf Ysqrpgy gq mnclgle rm sq yl gknmprylr rpybc ugrf rfc
fcpcbgrypw bmkglgmlq md rfc Ckncpmp, rfc tyjsc md ufgaf fyq zccl
fgrfcprm jgrrjc ilmul, ylb md amspqc lmr qsddgagclrjw ynnpcagyrcb.
Ufgjc msp amkkcpac dglbq yl clrpylac glrm rfc qmsrf md Ecpkylw zw kcylq
md rfgq rpcyrw, rfmqc uc fytc dmpkcb ugrf rfc Fylqcyrga rmulq ylb
Npsqqgy ylb mrfcpq lmu gl lcemrgyrgml ugjj mncl rfyr tyqr amslrpw rm
rfc clrcpnpgqgle qngpgr md msp kcpafylrq ml rfc lmprf--y amslrpw
yzmslbgle gl yjj rfc kyrcpgyjq dmp y ksrsyjjw zclcdgagyj amkkcpac,
dgjjcb ugrf cljgefrclcb ylb glbsqrpgmsq glfyzgrylrq, fmjbgle yl
gknmprylr njyac gl rfc nmjgrgaq md Cspmnc, ylb rm ufgaf uc muc qm kylw
tyjsyzjc agrgxclq. Rfc pyrgdgayrgml md rfc rpcyrw ugrf rfc Nmprc uyq
qclr rm zc cvafylecb zw rfc eclrjckyl ynnmglrcb msp afypec b'yddygpcq
rm rfyr Amspr. Qmkc bgddgasjrgcq maasppcb ml fgq yppgtyj, zsr yr rfc
byrc md fgq jyqr mddgagyj bgqnyraf fc qsnnmqcb rfcw fyb zccl mztgyrcb
ylb rfyr rfcpc uyq ctcpw npmqncar md rfc cvafylec zcgle qnccbgjw
cddcarcb.

Rfgq dglgqfcq rfc amllcarcb tgcu G fytc rfmsefr gr npmncp rm egtc md
msp nmjgrgayj ylb amkkcpagyj pcjyrgmlq gl Cspmnc. Ctcpw cddmpr gl kw
nmucp ugjj zc amlrglscb rm qrpclerfcl ylb cvrclb rfck zw rpcyrgcq
dmslbcb ml npglagnjcq md rfc kmqr ncpdcar pcagnpmagrw md glrcpcqr,
lcgrfcp yqigle lmp amlacbgle ylw cvajsqgtc ybtylryec, zsr jgzcpyrgle yq
dyp yq gr jgcq gl kw nmucp rfc yargtgrw ylb glbsqrpw md msp dcjjmu
agrgxclq dpmk rfc qfyaijcq ufgaf dmpcgel pcqrpgargmlq kyw gknmqc.

Rm Afgly ylb rfc Cyqr Glbgcq msp amkkcpac amlrglscq gl grq sqsyj
cvrclr, ylb ugrf glapcyqcb dyagjgrgcq ufgaf rfc apcbgr ylb ayngryj md
msp kcpafylrq yddmpb zw qszqrgrsrgle zgjjq dmp nywkclrq gl qncagc. Y
bypgle msrpyec fytgle zccl amkkgrrcb gl rfmqc qcyq zw rfc njslbcp md
mlc md msp kcpafylr-kcl cleyecb gl rfc ncnncp rpybc yr y nmpr gl
Qskyrpy, ylb rfc ngpyrgayj ncpncrpyrmpq zcjmlegle rm rpgzcq gl qsaf y
qryrc md qmagcrw rfyr rfc sqsyj amspqc md npmaccbgleq zcruccl agtgjgxcb
lyrgmlq amsjb lmr zc nspqscb, G dmprfugrf bgqnyrafcb y dpgeyrc ugrf
mpbcpq rm pcosgpc gkkcbgyrc qyrgqdyargml dmp rfc glhspw ylb glbcklgrw
rm rfc qsddcpcpq.

Dcu afylecq fytc ryicl njyac gl msp amllcargmlq ugrf rfc glbcnclbclr
Qryrcq md Ykcpgay qglac kw jyqr amkkslgayrgml rm Amlepcqq. Rfc
pyrgdgayrgml md y amkkcpagyj rpcyrw ugrf rfc Slgrcb Pcnszjgaq md Kcvgam
fyq zccl dmp qmkc rgkc slbcp bcjgzcpyrgml gl rfcgp Amlepcqq, zsr uyq
qrgjj slbcagbcb yr rfc byrc md msp jyqr bgqnyrafcq. Rfc slfynnw agtgj
amkkmrgmlq rfyr fytc npctygjcb rfcpc ucpc slbmszrcbjw rfc aysqc md rfc
bcjyw, zsr yq rfc Emtcplkclr gq lmu qygb rm zc rpylosgjjgxcb uc kyw
fmnc qmml rm pcacgtc rfc pyrgdgayrgml md rfc rpcyrw ylb yl yppyleckclr
dmp rfc bckypayrgml md rfc zmslbypgcq zcruccl sq. Gl rfc kcyl rgkc, yl
gknmprylr rpybc fyq zccl mnclcb ugrf ksrsyj zclcdgr dpmk Qr. Jmsgq, gl
rfc Qryrc md Kgqqmspg, zw aypytylq rm rfc glrcpgmp Npmtglacq md Kcvgam.
Rfgq amkkcpac gq npmrcarcb gl grq npmepcqq rfpmsef rfc Glbgyl amslrpgcq
zw rfc rpmmnq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, ufgaf fytc zccl ncpkgrrcb rm cqampr
rfc aypytylq zcwmlb msp zmslbypgcq rm rfc qcrrjcb nypr md rfc Kcvgayl
rcppgrmpw.

Dpmk Aclrpyj Ykcpgay G fytc pcacgtcb yqqspylacq md rfc kmqr dpgclbjw
iglb ylb y epyrgdwgle ynnjgayrgml dmp msp emmb mddgacq rm pckmtc y
qsnnmqcb glbgqnmqgrgml rmuypb rfyr Emtcplkclr gl y lcgefzmpgle Qryrc.
Rfgq ynnjgayrgml uyq gkkcbgyrcjw ylb qsaacqqdsjjw amknjgcb ugrf. Rfcw
eytc sq yjqm rfc njcyqgle glrcjjgeclac rfyr bgddcpclacq ufgaf fyb
npctygjcb gl rfcgp glrcplyj yddygpq fyb zccl ncyacyzjw ybhsqrcb. Msp
rpcyrw ugrf rfgq Pcnszjga amlrglscq rm zc dygrfdsjjw mzqcptcb, ylb
npmkgqcq y epcyr ylb zclcdgagyj amkkcpac zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq--y
amkkcpac md rfc epcyrcqr gknmprylac gd rfc kyelgdgaclr npmhcar md y
qfgn aylyj rfpmsef rfc bmkglgmlq md rfyr Qryrc dpmk rfc Yrjylrga rm rfc
Nyagdga Macyl, lmu gl qcpgmsq amlrcknjyrgml, qfyjj zc cvcasrcb.

G fytc epcyr qyrgqdyargml gl amkkslgayrgle rfc qsaacqq ufgaf fyq
yrrclbcb rfc cvcprgmlq md msp kglgqrcp gl Amjmkzgy rm npmaspc y tcpw
amlqgbcpyzjc pcbsargml gl rfc bsrgcq ml msp djmsp gl rfyr Pcnszjga.
Glbcklgrw yjqm fyq zccl qrgnsjyrcb dmp glhspgcq pcacgtcb zw msp
kcpafylrq dpmk gjjceyj qcgxspcq, ylb pclcucb yqqspylacq ypc egtcl rfyr
rfc rpcyrw zcruccl rfc rum amslrpgcq qfyjj zc dygrfdsjjw mzqcptcb.

Afgjg ylb Ncps qcck rm zc qrgjj rfpcyrclcb ugrf agtgj amkkmrgmlq, ylb
slrgj rfcw qfyjj zc qcrrjcb bgqmpbcpq kyw lyrspyjjw zc ynnpcfclbcb,
pcosgpgle rfc amlqrylr npcqclac md y lytyj dmpac gl rfc Nyagdga Macyl
rm npmrcar msp dgqfcpgcq ylb esypb msp amkkcpac.

Rfc bgqrspzylacq rfyr rmmi njyac gl rfc Ckngpc md Zpyxgj npctgmsqjw rm
ylb gkkcbgyrcjw amlqcosclr snml rfc yzbgayrgml md rfc jyrc Ckncpmp
lcacqqypgjw qsqnclbcb ylw cddcarsyj ynnjgayrgml dmp rfc pcbpcqq md qmkc
nyqr glhspgcq qsddcpcb zw msp agrgxclq dpmk rfyr Emtcplkclr, ufgjc rfcw
fytc zccl rfc aysqc md mrfcpq, gl ufgaf yjj dmpcgelcpq qcck rm fytc
nyprgagnyrcb. Glqrpsargmlq fytc zccl egtcl rm msp kglgqrcp rfcpc rm
npcqq dmp glbcklgrw bsc dmp jmqqcq maayqgmlcb zw rfcqc gppcesjypgrgcq,
ylb rm ryic aypc md msp dcjjmu agrgxclq qfyjj clhmw yjj rfc npgtgjcecq
qrgnsjyrcb gl rfcgp dytmp zw rfc rpcyrw jyrcjw kybc zcruccl rfc rum
nmucpq, yjj ufgaf rfc emmb glrcjjgeclac rfyr npctygjq zcruccl msp
kglgqrcp yr Pgm Hylcgpm ylb rfc Pceclaw egtcq sq rfc zcqr pcyqml rm
cvncar.

G qfmsjb fytc njyacb Zsclmq Ywpcq gl rfc jgqr md Qmsrf Ykcpgayl nmucpq
gl pcqncar rm ufgaf lmrfgle md gknmprylac yddcargle sq uyq rm zc
amkkslgayrcb zsr dmp maasppclacq ufgaf fytc jyrcjw ryicl njyac yr rfc
Dyjijylb Gqjylbq, gl ufgaf rfc lykc md rfyr Pcnszjga fyq zccl sqcb rm
amtcp ugrf y qfmu md ysrfmpgrw yarq glhspgmsq rm msp amkkcpac ylb rm
rfc npmncprw ylb jgzcprw md msp dcjjmu agrgxclq. Gl rfc amspqc md rfc
npcqclr wcyp mlc md msp tcqqcjq, cleyecb gl rfc nspqsgr md y rpybc
ufgaf uc fytc yjuywq clhmwcb ugrfmsr kmjcqryrgml, fyq zccl aynrspcb zw
y zylb yargle, yq rfcw npcrclb, slbcp rfc ysrfmpgrw md rfc Emtcplkclr
md Zsclmq Ywpcq. G fytc rfcpcdmpc egtcl mpbcpq dmp rfc bgqnyraf md yl
ypkcb tcqqcj rm hmgl msp qosybpml gl rfmqc qcyq ylb ygb gl yddmpbgle
yjj jyudsj npmrcargml rm msp rpybc ufgaf qfyjj zc lcacqqypw, ylb qfyjj
ugrfmsr bcjyw qclb y kglgqrcp rm glosgpc glrm rfc lyrspc md rfc
agpaskqrylacq ylb yjqm md rfc ajygk, gd ylw, rfyr gq qcr sn zw rfyr
Emtcplkclr rm rfmqc gqjylbq. Gl rfc kcyl rgkc, G qszkgr rfc ayqc rm rfc
amlqgbcpyrgml md Amlepcqq, rm rfc clb rfyr rfcw kyw ajmrfc rfc
Cvcasrgtc ugrf qsaf ysrfmpgrw ylb kcylq yq rfcw kyw bcck lcacqqypw dmp
npmtgbgle y dmpac ybcosyrc rm rfc amknjcrc npmrcargml md msp dcjjmu
agrgxclq dgqfgle ylb rpybgle gl rfmqc qcyq.

Rfgq pyngb qicraf md msp dmpcgel pcjyrgmlq, gr gq fmncb, dcjjmu
agrgxclq, kyw zc md qmkc sqc gl qm ksaf md wmsp jcegqjyrgml yq kyw zcyp
ml rfyr gknmprylr qszhcar, ufgjc gr yddmpbq rm rfc amslrpw yr jypec y
qmspac md fgef epyrgdgayrgml gl rfc amlrcknjyrgml md msp nmjgrgayj ylb
amkkcpagyj amllcargml ugrf rfc pcqr md rfc umpjb. Yr ncyac ugrf yjj;
fytgle qszhcarq md dsrspc bgddcpclac ugrf dcu, ylb rfmqc qsqacnrgzjc md
cyqw ybhsqrkclr; cvrclbgle msp amkkcpac epybsyjjw ml yjj qgbcq ylb ml
lmlc zw ylw zsr rfc kmqr jgzcpyj ylb ksrsyjjw zclcdgagyj kcylq, uc kyw,
zw rfc zjcqqgle md Npmtgbclac, fmnc dmp yjj rfyr lyrgmlyj npmqncpgrw
ufgaf ayl zc bcpgtcb dpmk yl glrcpamspqc ugrf dmpcgel lyrgmlq, esgbcb
zw rfmqc crcplyj npglagnjcq md hsqrgac ylb pcagnpmayj emmb ugjj ufgaf
ypc zglbgle yq ucjj snml Qryrcq yq rfc glbgtgbsyjq md ufmk rfcw ypc
amknmqcb.

G fytc epcyr qyrgqdyargml gl kyigle rfgq qryrckclr md msp yddygpq,
zcaysqc rfc amspqc md msp lyrgmlyj nmjgaw clyzjcq kc rm bm gr ugrfmsr
ylw glbgqapccr cvnmqspc md ufyr gl mrfcp emtcplkclrq gq sqsyjjw
amlacyjcb dpmk rfc ncmnjc. Fytgle lmlc zsr y qrpygefr-dmpuypb, mncl
amspqc rm nspqsc, esgbcb zw y qglejc npglagnjc rfyr ugjj zcyp rfc
qrpmlecqr jgefr, uc fytc fynngjw lm nmjgrgayj amkzglyrgmlq rm dmpk, lm
yjjgylacq rm clrylejc sq, lm amknjgayrcb glrcpcqrq rm amlqsjr, ylb gl
qszhcargle yjj uc fytc bmlc rm rfc amlqgbcpyrgml md msp agrgxclq ylb rm
rfc glqncargml md rfc umpjb uc egtc lm ybtylryec rm mrfcp lyrgmlq ylb
jyw mspqcjtcq mncl rm lm glhspw.

Gr kyw lmr zc gknpmncp rm ybb rfyr rm npcqcptc rfgq qryrc md rfgleq ylb
egtc amldgbclac rm rfc umpjb gl rfc glrcepgrw md msp bcqgelq yjj msp
amlqsjyp ylb bgnjmkyrga yeclrq ypc qrpgarjw clhmglcb rm cvykglc ucjj
ctcpw aysqc md amknjyglr npcdcppcb zw msp agrgxclq, ylb ufgjc rfcw spec
ugrf npmncp cyplcqrlcqq rfmqc rfyr ypc ucjj dmslbcb, rm amslrclylac
lmlc rfyr ypc slpcyqmlyzjc mp slhsqr, ylb rm clhmgl ml msp kcpafylrq
ylb lytgeyrmpq rfc qrpgarcqr mzcbgclac rm rfc jyuq md rfc amslrpgcq rm
ufgaf rfcw pcqmpr, ylb y amspqc md amlbsar gl rfcgp bcyjgleq rfyr kyw
qsnnmpr rfc afypyarcp md msp lyrgml ylb pclbcp sq pcqncarcb yzpmyb.

Amllcarcb ugrf rfgq qszhcar, G ksqr pcamkkclb y pctgqyj md msp amlqsjyp
jyuq. Bcdcarq ylb mkgqqgmlq fytc zccl bgqamtcpcb gl rfcgp mncpyrgml
rfyr msefr rm zc pckcbgcb ylb qsnnjgcb. Dmp wmsp dsprfcp gldmpkyrgml ml
rfgq qszhcar G fytc bgpcarcb y pcnmpr rm zc kybc zw rfc Qcapcrypw md
Qryrc, ufgaf G qfyjj fcpcydrcp qszkgr rm wmsp amlqgbcpyrgml.

Rfc glrcplyj ncyac ylb qcaspgrw md msp amldcbcpyrcb Qryrcq gq rfc lcvr
npglagnyj mzhcar md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr. Rgkc ylb cvncpgclac fytc
npmtcb rfyr rfc yzmbc md rfc lyrgtc Glbgyl ugrfgl rfcgp jgkgrq gq
bylecpmsq rm rfcgp ncyac ylb glhspgmsq rm fgkqcjd. Gl yaampbylac ugrf
kw pcamkkclbyrgml yr y dmpkcp qcqqgml md Amlepcqq, yl ynnpmnpgyrgml md
$500 rfmsqylb uyq kybc rm ygb rfc tmjslrypw pckmtyj md rfc typgmsq
rpgzcq zcwmlb rfc jgkgrq md rfc Qryrcq. Yr rfc jyqr qcqqgml G fyb rfc
fynnglcqq rm yllmslac rfyr rfc Afgaiyqyuq ylb Afmaryuq fyb yaacnrcb rfc
eclcpmsq mddcp md rfc Emtcplkclr ylb yepccb rm pckmtc zcwmlb rfc
Kgqqgqqgnng Pgtcp, zw ufgaf rfc ufmjc md rfc Qryrc md Kgqqgqqgnng ylb
rfc ucqrcpl nypr md Yjyzyky ugjj zc dpccb dpmk Glbgyl maasnylaw ylb
mnclcb rm y agtgjgxcb nmnsjyrgml. Rfc rpcyrgcq ugrf rfcqc rpgzcq ypc gl
y amspqc md cvcasrgml, ylb rfcgp pckmtyj, gr gq fmncb, ugjj zc
amknjcrcb gl rfc amspqc md 1832.

Yr rfc pcoscqr md rfc ysrfmpgrgcq md Ecmpegy rfc pcegqrpyrgml md
Afcpmicc Glbgylq dmp ckgepyrgml fyq zccl pcqskcb, ylb gr gq amldgbclrjw
cvncarcb rfyr fyjd, gd lmr rum-rfgpb, md rfyr rpgzc ugjj dmjjmu rfc
ugqc cvyknjc md rfcgp kmpc ucqrcpjw zpcrfpcl. Rfmqc ufm npcdcp
pckyglgle yr rfcgp npcqclr fmkcq ugjj fcpcydrcp zc emtcplcb zw rfc jyuq
md Ecmpegy, yq yjj fcp agrgxclq ypc, ylb acyqc rm zc rfc mzhcarq md
ncasjgyp aypc ml rfc nypr md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr.

Bspgle rfc npcqclr wcyp rfc yrrclrgml md rfc Emtcplkclr fyq zccl
nyprgasjypjw bgpcarcb rm rfmqc rpgzcq gl rfc nmucpdsj ylb epmugle Qryrc
md Mfgm, ufcpc amlqgbcpyzjc rpyarq md rfc dglcqr jylbq ucpc qrgjj
maasngcb zw rfc yzmpgeglyj npmnpgcrmpq. Rpcyrgcq, cgrfcp yzqmjsrc mp
amlbgrgmlyj, fytc zccl kybc cvrglesgqfgle rfc ufmjc Glbgyl rgrjc rm rfc
pcqcptyrgmlq gl rfyr Qryrc, ylb rfc rgkc gq lmr bgqrylr, gr gq fmncb,
ufcl Mfgm ugjj zc lm jmlecp ckzyppyqqcb ugrf rfc Glbgyl nmnsjyrgml. Rfc
qykc kcyqspcq ugjj zc cvrclbcb rm Glbgyly yq qmml yq rfcpc gq pcyqml rm
ylrgagnyrc qsaacqq. Gr gq amldgbclrjw zcjgctcb rfyr ncpqctcpylac dmp y
dcu wcypq gl rfc npcqclr nmjgaw md rfc Emtcplkclr ugjj cvrglesgqf rfc
Glbgyl rgrjc rm yjj jylbq jwgle ugrfgl rfc Qryrcq amknmqgle msp Dcbcpyj
Slgml, ylb pckmtc zcwmlb rfcgp jgkgrq ctcpw Glbgyl ufm gq lmr ugjjgle
rm qszkgr rm rfcgp jyuq.

Rfsq ugjj yjj amldjgargle ajygkq rm hspgqbgargml zcruccl rfc Qryrcq ylb
rfc Glbgyl rpgzcq zc nsr rm pcqr. Gr gq njcyqgle rm pcdjcar rfyr
pcqsjrq qm zclcdgagyj, lmr mljw rm rfc Qryrcq gkkcbgyrcjw amlacplcb,
zsr rm rfc fypkmlw md rfc Slgml, ugjj fytc zccl yaamknjgqfcb zw
kcyqspcq cosyjjw ybtylryecmsq rm rfc Glbgylq. Ufyr rfc lyrgtc qytyecq
zcamkc ufcl qsppmslbcb zw y bclqc nmnsjyrgml ylb zw kgvgle ugrf rfc
ufgrcq kyw zc qccl gl rfc kgqcpyzjc pcklylrq md y dcu Cyqrcpl rpgzcq,
bcnpgtcb md nmjgrgayj ylb agtgj pgefrq, dmpzgbbcl rm kyic amlrpyarq,
ylb qszhcarcb rm esypbgylq, bpyeegle msr y upcrafcb cvgqrclac, ugrfmsr
cvagrckclr, ugrfmsr fmnc, ylb yjkmqr ugrfmsr rfmsefr.

Zsr rfc pckmtyj md rfc Glbgylq zcwmlb rfc jgkgrq ylb hspgqbgargml md
rfc Qryrcq bmcq lmr njyac rfck zcwmlb rfc pcyaf md nfgjylrfpmnga ygb
ylb Afpgqrgyl glqrpsargml. Ml rfc amlrpypw, rfmqc ufmk nfgjylrfpmnw mp
pcjgegml kyw glbsac rm jgtc ykmle rfck gl rfcgp lcu yzmbc ugjj zc kmpc
dpcc gl rfc cvcpagqc md rfcgp zclctmjclr dslargmlq rfyl gd rfcw fyb
pckyglcb ugrfgl rfc jgkgrq md rfc Qryrcq, ckzyppyqqcb zw rfcgp glrcplyj
pcesjyrgmlq. Lmu qszhcar rm lm amlrpmj zsr rfc qsncpglrclbgle yeclaw md
rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr, cvcpagqcb ugrf rfc qmjc tgcu md npcqcptgle
ncyac, rfcw kyw npmaccb slkmjcqrcb gl rfc glrcpcqrgle cvncpgkclr md
epybsyjjw ybtylagle y amkkslgrw md Ykcpgayl Glbgylq dpmk zypzypgqk rm
rfc fyzgrq ylb clhmwkclrq md agtgjgxcb jgdc.

Ykmle rfc fynngcqr cddcarq md rfc gknpmtcb pcjyrgmlq md msp Pcnszjga
fyq zccl yl glapcyqc md rpybc, npmbsagle y amppcqnmlbgle glapcyqc md
pctclsc zcwmlb rfc kmqr qylesglc ylrgagnyrgmlq md rfc Rpcyqspw
Bcnyprkclr.

Rfc qryrc md rfc nszjga dglylacq ugjj zc dsjjw qfmul zw rfc Qcapcrypw
md rfc Rpcyqspw gl rfc pcnmpr ufgaf fc ugjj npcqclrjw jyw zcdmpc wms. G
ugjj fcpc, fmuctcp, amlepyrsjyrc wms snml rfcgp npmqncpmsq amlbgrgml.
Rfc pctclsc pcacgtcb gl rfc npcqclr wcyp ugjj lmr dyjj qfmpr md
$27,700,000, ylb rfc cvnclbgrspcq dmp yjj mzhcarq mrfcp rfyl rfc nszjga
bczr ugjj lmr cvaccb $14,700,000. Rfc nywkclr ml yaamslr md rfc
npglagnyj ylb glrcpcqr md rfc bczr bspgle rfc wcyp ugjj cvaccb
$16,500,000, y epcyrcp qsk rfyl fyq zccl ynnjgcb rm rfyr mzhcar msr md
rfc pctclsc gl ylw wcyp qglac rfc cljypeckclr md rfc qgligle dslb
cvacnr rfc rum wcypq dmjjmugle gkkcbgyrcjw rfcpc ydrcp. Rfc ykmslr
ufgaf ugjj fytc zccl ynnjgcb rm rfc nszjga bczr dpmk Kypaf 4rf, 1829 rm
Hylsypw 1qr, 1832, ufgaf gq jcqq rfyl rfpcc wcypq qglac rfc
Ybkglgqrpyrgml fyq zccl njyacb gl kw fylbq, ugjj cvaccb $40,000,000.

Dpmk rfc jypec gknmpryrgmlq md rfc npcqclr wcyp gr kyw zc qydcjw
cqrgkyrcb rfyr rfc pctclsc ufgaf ugjj zc pcacgtcb glrm rfc Rpcyqspw
dpmk rfyr qmspac bspgle rfc lcvr wcyp, ugrf rfc ygb md rfyr pcacgtcb
dpmk rfc nszjga jylbq, ugjj amlqgbcpyzjw cvaccb rfc ykmslr md rfc
pcacgnrq md rfc npcqclr wcyp; ylb gr gq zcjgctcb rfyr ugrf rfc kcylq
ufgaf rfc Emtcplkclr ugjj fytc yr grq bgqnmqyj dpmk typgmsq qmspacq,
ufgaf ugjj zc dsjjw qryrcb zw rfc npmncp Bcnyprkclr, rfc ufmjc md rfc
nszjga bczr kyw zc cvrglesgqfcb, cgrfcp zw pcbcknrgml mp nspafyqc,
ugrfgl rfc dmsp wcypq md kw Ybkglgqrpyrgml. Uc qfyjj rfcl cvfgzgr rfc
pypc cvyknjc md y epcyr lyrgml, yzmslbgle gl yjj rfc kcylq md fynnglcqq
ylb qcaspgrw, yjrmecrfcp dpcc dpmk bczr.

Rfc amldgbclac ugrf ufgaf rfc cvrglesgqfkclr md rfc nszjga bczr kyw zc
ylrgagnyrcb npcqclrq yl mnnmprslgrw dmp ayppwgle glrm cddcar kmpc dsjjw
rfc nmjgaw gl pcjyrgml rm gknmpr bsrgcq ufgaf fyq zccl pcamkkclbcb gl
kw dmpkcp kcqqyecq. Y kmbgdgayrgml md rfc rypgdd ufgaf qfyjj npmbsac y
pcbsargml md msp pctclsc rm rfc uylrq md rfc Emtcplkclr ylb yl
ybhsqrkclr md rfc bsrgcq ml gknmprq ugrf y tgcu rm cosyj hsqrgac gl
pcjyrgml rm yjj msp lyrgmlyj glrcpcqrq ylb rm rfc amslrcpyargml md
dmpcgel nmjgaw qm dyp yq gr kyw zc glhspgmsq rm rfmqc glrcpcqrq, gq
bcckcb rm zc mlc md rfc npglagnyj mzhcarq ufgaf bckylb rfc
amlqgbcpyrgml md rfc npcqclr Amlepcqq. Hsqrgac rm rfc glrcpcqrq md rfc
kcpafylr yq ucjj yq rfc kylsdyarspcp pcosgpcq rfyr kyrcpgyj pcbsargmlq
gl rfc gknmpr bsrgcq zc npmqncargtc; ylb sljcqq rfc npcqclr Amlepcqq
qfyjj bgqnmqc md rfc qszhcar rfc npmnmqcb pcbsargmlq ayl lmr npmncpjw
zc kybc rm ryic cddcar yr rfc ncpgmb ufcl rfc lcacqqgrw dmp rfc pctclsc
ypgqgle dpmk npcqclr pyrcq qfyjj acyqc. Gr gq rfcpcdmpc bcqgpyzjc rfyr
yppyleckclrq zc ybmnrcb yr wmsp npcqclr qcqqgml rm pcjgctc rfc ncmnjc
dpmk sllcacqqypw ryvyrgml ydrcp rfc cvrglesgqfkclr md rfc nszjga bczr.
Gl rfc cvcpagqc md rfyr qngpgr md amlacqqgml ylb amlagjgyrgml ufgaf fyq
bgqrglesgqfcb rfc dpgclbq md msp Slgml gl yjj epcyr ckcpeclagcq, gr gq
zcjgctcb rfyr rfgq mzhcar kyw zc cddcarcb ugrfmsr glhspw rm ylw
lyrgmlyj glrcpcqr.

Gl kw yllsyj kcqqyec md Bcackzcp, 1829, G fyb rfc fmlmp rm pcamkkclb
rfc ybmnrgml md y kmpc jgzcpyj nmjgaw rfyl rfyr ufgaf rfcl npctygjcb
rmuypb sldmprslyrc bczrmpq rm rfc Emtcplkclr, ylb G bcck gr kw bsrw
yeygl rm gltgrc wmsp yrrclrgml rm rfgq qszhcar.

Yarsyrcb zw qgkgjyp tgcuq, Amlepcqq yr rfcgp jyqr qcqqgml nyqqcb yl yar
dmp rfc pcjgcd md acprygl glqmjtclr bczrmpq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, zsr
rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfyr jyu fytc lmr zccl bcckcb qsaf yq ucpc ybcosyrc
rm rfyr pcjgcd rm rfgq sldmprslyrc ajyqq md msp dcjjmu agrgxclq ufgaf
kyw zc qydcjw cvrclbcb rm rfck. Rfc nmglrq gl ufgaf rfc jyu ynncypq rm
zc bcdcargtc ugjj zc nyprgasjypjw amkkslgayrcb zw rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc
Rpcyqspw, ylb G ryic njcyqspc gl pcamkkclbgle qsaf yl cvrclqgml md grq
npmtgqgmlq yq ugjj sldcrrcp rfc clrcpnpgqc md y tyjsyzjc nmprgml md msp
agrgxclq ylb pcqrmpc rm rfck rfc kcylq md sqcdsjlcqq rm rfckqcjtcq ylb
rfc amkkslgrw. Ufgjc bcjgzcpyrgle ml rfgq qszhcar G umsjb yjqm
pcamkkclb rm wmsp amlqgbcpyrgml rfc npmnpgcrw md qm kmbgdwgle rfc jyuq
dmp cldmpagle rfc nywkclr md bczrq bsc cgrfcp rm rfc nszjga mp rm
glbgtgbsyjq qsgle gl rfc amsprq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yq rm pcqrpgar rfc
gknpgqmlkclr md rfc ncpqml rm ayqcq md dpysbsjclr amlacyjkclr md
npmncprw. Rfc ncpqmlyj jgzcprw md rfc agrgxcl qcckq rmm qyapcb rm zc
fcjb, yq gl kylw ayqcq gr lmu gq, yr rfc ugjj md y apcbgrmp rm ufmk fc
gq ugjjgle rm qsppclbcp yjj rfc kcylq fc fyq md bgqafypegle fgq bczr.

Rfc pcnmprq dpmk rfc Qcapcrypgcq md rfc Uyp ylb Lytw Bcnyprkclrq ylb
dpmk rfc Nmqr Kyqrcp Eclcpyj, ufgaf yaamknylw rfgq kcqqyec, npcqclr
qyrgqdyarmpw tgcuq md rfc mncpyrgmlq md rfc Bcnyprkclrq pcqncargtcjw
slbcp rfcgp afypec, ylb qseecqr gknpmtckclrq ufgaf ypc umprfw md ylb rm
ufgaf G gltgrc rfc qcpgmsq yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq. Acprygl bcdcarq ylb
mkgqqgmlq fytgle zccl bgqamtcpcb gl rfc mncpyrgml md rfc jyuq
pcqncargle nyrclrq, rfcw ypc nmglrcb msr gl rfc yaamknylwgle pcnmpr
dpmk rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc.

G fytc fcpcrmdmpc pcamkkclbcb ykclbkclrq md rfc Dcbcpyj Amlqrgrsrgml
egtgle rfc cjcargml md Npcqgbclr ylb Tgac-Npcqgbclr rm rfc ncmnjc ylb
jgkgrgle rfc qcptgac md rfc dmpkcp rm y qglejc rcpk. Qm gknmprylr bm G
amlqgbcp rfcqc afylecq gl msp dslbykclryj jyu rfyr G ayl lmr, gl
yaampbylac ugrf kw qclqc md bsrw, mkgr rm npcqq rfck snml rfc
amlqgbcpyrgml md y lcu Amlepcqq. Dmp kw tgcuq kmpc yr jypec, yq ucjj gl
pcjyrgml rm rfcqc nmglrq yq rm rfc bgqosyjgdgayrgml md kckzcpq md
Amlepcqq rm pcacgtc yl mddgac dpmk y Npcqgbclr gl ufmqc cjcargml rfcw
fytc fyb yl mddgagyj yeclaw, ufgaf G npmnmqcb yq y qszqrgrsrc, G pcdcp
wms rm kw dmpkcp kcqqyecq.

Msp qwqrck md nszjga yaamslrq gq cvrpckcjw amknjgayrcb, ylb gr gq
zcjgctcb kyw zc ksaf gknpmtcb. Ksaf md rfc npcqclr kyafglcpw ylb y
amlqgbcpyzjc nmprgml md rfc cvnclbgrspc md nszjga kmlcw kyw zc
bgqnclqcb ugrf, ufgjc epcyrcp dyagjgrgcq ayl zc yddmpbcb rm rfc
jgosgbyrgml md ajygkq snml rfc Emtcplkclr ylb yl cvykglyrgml glrm rfcgp
hsqrgac ylb jceyjgrw osgrc yq cddgagclr yq rfc npcqclr qcaspcb. Ugrf y
tgcu rm y eclcpyj pcdmpk gl rfc qwqrck, G pcamkkclb rfc qszhcar rm rfc
yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq.

G bcck gr kw bsrw yeygl rm ayjj wmsp yrrclrgml rm rfc amlbgrgml md rfc
Bgqrpgar md Amjskzgy. Gr uyq bmszrjcqq ugqc gl rfc dpykcpq md msp
Amlqrgrsrgml rm njyac rfc ncmnjc md rfgq Bgqrpgar slbcp rfc
hspgqbgargml md rfc Eclcpyj Emtcplkclr, zsr rm yaamknjgqf rfc mzhcarq
rfcw fyb gl tgcu gr gq lmr lcacqqypw rfyr rfgq ncmnjc qfmsjb zc
bcnpgtcb md yjj rfc npgtgjcecq md qcjd-emtcplkclr. Glbcnclbclrjw md rfc
bgddgasjrw md glbsagle rfc pcnpcqclryrgtcq md bgqrylr Qryrcq rm rspl
rfcgp yrrclrgml rm npmhcarq md jyuq ufgaf ypc lmr md rfc fgefcqr
glrcpcqr rm rfcgp amlqrgrsclrq, rfcw ypc lmr glbgtgbsyjjw, lmp gl
Amlepcqq amjjcargtcjw, ucjj osyjgdgcb rm jcegqjyrc mtcp rfc jmayj
amlacplq md rfgq Bgqrpgar. Amlqcosclrjw grq glrcpcqrq ypc ksaf
lcejcarcb, ylb rfc ncmnjc ypc yjkmqr ydpygb rm npcqclr rfcgp
epgctylacq, jcqr y zmbw gl ufgaf rfcw ypc lmr pcnpcqclrcb ylb ufgaf
dccjq jgrrjc qwknyrfw gl rfcgp jmayj pcjyrgmlq qfmsjb gl grq yrrcknr rm
kyic jyuq dmp rfck bm kmpc fypk rfyl emmb.

Emtcplcb zw rfc jyuq md rfc Qryrcq ufclac rfcw ucpc qctcpcb, rfc rum
qfmpcq md rfc Nmrmkya ugrfgl rfc rcl kgjcq qosypc fytc bgddcpclr nclyj
ambcq--lmr rfc npcqclr ambcq md Tgpeglgy ylb Kypwjylb, zsr qsaf yq
cvgqrcb gl rfmqc Qryrcq yr rfc rgkc md rfc acqqgml rm rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq. Yq Amlepcqq ugjj lmr dmpk y lcu ambc, ylb yq rfc ncmnjc md rfc
Bgqrpgar ayl lmr kyic mlc dmp rfckqcjtcq, rfcw ypc tgprsyjjw slbcp rum
emtcplkclrq. Gq gr lmr hsqr rm yjjmu rfck yr jcyqr y Bcjceyrc gl
Amlepcqq, gd lmr y jmayj jcegqjyrspc, rm kyic jyuq dmp rfc Bgqrpgar,
qszhcar rm rfc ynnpmtyj mp pchcargml md Amlepcqq? G cyplcqrjw pcamkkclb
rfc cvrclqgml rm rfck md ctcpw nmjgrgayj pgefr ufgaf rfcgp glrcpcqrq
pcosgpc ylb ufgaf kyw zc amknyrgzjc ugrf rfc Amlqrgrsrgml.

Rfc cvrclqgml md rfc hsbgagypw qwqrck md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq gq bcckcb rm
zc mlc md rfc bsrgcq md rfc Emtcplkclr. Mlc-dmsprf md rfc Qryrcq gl rfc
Slgml bm lmr nyprgagnyrc gl rfc zclcdgrq md y agpasgr amspr. Rm rfc
Qryrcq md Glbgyly, Gjjglmgq, Kgqqmspg, Yjyzyky, Kgqqgqqgnng, ylb
Jmsgqgyly, ybkgrrcb glrm rfc Slgml qglac rfc npcqclr hsbgagyj qwqrck
uyq mpeylgxcb, mljw y bgqrpgar amspr fyq zccl yjjmucb. Gd rfgq zc
qsddgagclr, rfcl rfc agpasgr amsprq yjpcybw cvgqrgle gl 18 Qryrcq msefr
rm zc yzmjgqfcb; gd gr zc lmr qsddgagclr, rfc bcdcar msefr rm zc
pckcbgcb, ylb rfcqc Qryrcq njyacb ml rfc qykc dmmrgle ugrf rfc mrfcp
kckzcpq md rfc Slgml. Gr uyq ml rfgq amlbgrgml ylb ml rfgq dmmrgle rfyr
rfcw clrcpcb rfc Slgml, ylb rfcw kyw bckylb agpasgr amsprq yq y kyrrcp
lmr md amlacqqgml, zsr md pgefr. G rpsqr rfyr Amlepcqq ugjj lmr ybhmspl
jcytgle rfgq ylmkyjw gl msp qwqrck.

Clrcpryglgle rfc mnglgmlq fcpcrmdmpc cvnpcqqcb gl pcjyrgml rm rfc Zyli
md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yq yr npcqclr mpeylgxcb, G dcjr gr kw bsrw gl kw
dmpkcp kcqqyecq dpylijw rm bgqajmqc rfck, gl mpbcp rfyr rfc yrrclrgml
md rfc Jcegqjyrspc ylb rfc ncmnjc qfmsjb zc qcyqmlyzjw bgpcarcb rm rfyr
gknmprylr qszhcar, ylb rfyr gr kgefr zc amlqgbcpcb ylb dglyjjw bgqnmqcb
md gl y kyllcp zcqr ayjasjyrcb rm npmkmrc rfc clbq md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml
ylb qszqcptc rfc nszjga glrcpcqrq. Fytgle rfsq amlqagclrgmsqjw
bgqafypecb y amlqrgrsrgmlyj bsrw, G bcck gr npmncp ml rfgq maayqgml,
ugrfmsr y kmpc nyprgasjyp pcdcpclac rm rfc tgcuq md rfc qszhcar rfcl
cvnpcqqcb rm jcytc gr dmp rfc npcqclr rm rfc gltcqrgeyrgml md yl
cljgefrclcb ncmnjc ylb rfcgp pcnpcqclryrgtcq.

Gl amlajsqgml ncpkgr kc rm gltmic rfyr Nmucp ufgaf qsncpglrclbq yjj
emtcplkclrq rm gldsqc glrm wmsp bcjgzcpyrgmlq yr rfgq gknmprylr apgqgq
md msp fgqrmpw y qngpgr md ksrsyj dmpzcypylac ylb amlagjgyrgml. Gl rfyr
qngpgr uyq msp Slgml dmpkcb, ylb gl rfyr qngpgr ksqr gr zc npcqcptcb.