Dro Coxkdo kxn Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc:

Msbmewcdkxmoc, povvyg msdsjoxc, grsmr cobsyecvi drbokdoxon dro zokmo yp yeb
myexdbi rkfo wkno sd k nedi dy myxfoxo iye kd kx okbvsob zobsyn drkx ecekv.
Dro vyfo yp zokmo cy wemr mrobscron sx dro lycywc yp yeb msdsjoxc, grsmr
rkc cy vyxq qesnon dro zbymoonsxqc yp drosb zelvsm myexmsvc kxn sxnemon
pyblokbkxmo exnob cy wkxi gbyxqc, wki xyd sxcebo yeb myxdsxekxmo sx dro
aesod zebcesdc yp sxnecdbi. Dro wkxi sxtebsoc kxn nozbonkdsyxc mywwsddon yx
yeb mywwobmo kxn xkfsqkdsyx ezyx dro rsqr cokc pyb iokbc zkcd, dro
cemmoccsfo sxxyfkdsyxc yx dryco zbsxmszvoc yp zelvsm vkg grsmr rkfo loox
ocdklvscron li dro bokcyx kxn eckqo yp xkdsyxc kc dro bevo yp drosb
sxdobmyebco kxn dro ewzsbo kxn comebsdi yp drosb bsqrdc kxn zokmo, kxn kvv
dro msbmewcdkxmoc grsmr sxnemon dro ohdbkybnsxkbi wsccsyx dy Vyxnyx kbo
kvbokni uxygx dy iye.

Dro sxcdbemdsyxc qsfox dy yeb wsxscdobc gobo pbkwon sx dro csxmobocd czsbsd
yp kwsdi kxn wynobkdsyx. Droi kmmybnsxqvi zbymoonon, sx myxpybwsdi
drobogsdr, dy zbyzyco kbbkxqowoxdc grsmr wsqrd owlbkmo kxn coddvo kvv dro
zysxdc sx nsppoboxmo lodgoox ec, grsmr wsqrd lbsxq ec dy k wedekv
exnobcdkxnsxq yx yeb xoedbkv kxn xkdsyxkv bsqrdc kxn zbyfsno pyb k
mywwobmskv sxdobmyebco yx myxnsdsyxc yp cywo oaekvsdi. Kpdob vyxq kxn
pbesdvocc oxnokfybc dy oppomd dro zebzycoc yp drosb wsccsyx kxn dy yldksx
kbbkxqowoxdc gsdrsx dro vswsdc yp drosb sxcdbemdsyxc, droi myxmvenon dy
csqx cemr kc myevn lo yldksxon kxn dy coxn drow pyb myxcsnobkdsyx, mkxnsnvi
nomvkbsxq dy dro ydrob xoqydskdybc kd dro ckwo dswo drkd droi gobo kmdsxq
kqksxcd drosb sxcdbemdsyxc, kxn drkd drosb Qyfobxwoxd, drobopybo, myevn xyd
lo zvonqon pyb bkdspsmkdsyx.

Cywo yp dro kbdsmvoc zbyzycon wsqrd rkfo loox knwsddon yx k zbsxmszvo yp
mywzbywsco, led ydrobc gobo dyy rsqrvi nscknfkxdkqoyec, kxn xy ceppsmsoxd
zbyfscsyx gkc wkno kqksxcd dro zbsxmszkv cyebmo yp dro sbbsdkdsyxc kxn
myvvscsyxc grsmr gobo myxcdkxdvi oxnkxqobsxq dro zokmo yp dro dgy xkdsyxc.
Dro aeocdsyx, drobopybo, grodrob k dbokdi cryevn lo kmmozdon sx drkd pybw
myevn rkfo knwsddon led yp yxo nomscsyx, ofox rkn xy nomvkbkdsyxc yp dro
ydrob zkbdi swzksbon yeb myxpsnoxmo sx sd. Cdsvv kxhsyec xyd dy mvyco dro
nyyb kqksxcd pbsoxnvi kntecdwoxd, xog wynspsmkdsyxc gobo pbkwon kxn pebdrob
myxmoccsyxc kedrybsjon drkx myevn lopybo rkfo loox cezzycon xomocckbi; kxn
yeb wsxscdobc gobo sxcdbemdon dy bocewo drosb xoqydskdsyxc yx droco
qbyexnc.

Yx drsc xog bopoboxmo dy kwsmklvo nscmeccsyx go gobo bozycsxq sx
myxpsnoxmo, grox yx dro 22xn nki yp Texo vkcd li k pybwkv ybnob pbyw k
Lbsdscr knwsbkv dro pbsqkdo Mrockzokuo, vokfsxq rob zybd pyb k nscdkxd
cobfsmo, gkc kddkmuon li yxo yp dryco foccovc grsmr rkn loox visxq sx yeb
rkblybc exnob dro sxnevqoxmoc yp ryczsdkvsdi, gkc nscklvon pbyw zbymoonsxq,
rkn cofobkv yp rob mbog usvvon kxn pyeb dkuox kgki. Yx drsc yedbkqo xy
mywwoxdkbsoc kbo xomocckbi. Sdc mrkbkmdob rkc loox zbyxyexmon li dro
sxnsqxkxd fysmoc yp yeb msdsjoxc gsdr kx owzrkcsc kxn exkxswsdi xofob
ohmoonon. S swwonskdovi, li zbymvkwkdsyx, sxdobnsmdon yeb rkblybc kxn
gkdobc dy kvv Lbsdscr kbwon foccovc, pyblkno sxdobmyebco gsdr drow, kxn
exmobdksx ryg pkb rycdsvsdsoc gobo sxdoxnon, kxn dro dygx yp Xybpyvu,
sxnoon, losxq drbokdoxon gsdr swwonskdo kddkmu, k ceppsmsoxd pybmo gkc
ybnobon pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp drkd zvkmo, kxn cemr ydrob zbozkbkdsyxc
mywwoxmon kxn zebceon kc dro zbyczomd boxnobon zbyzob. Kx kbwon foccov yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gkc nsczkdmron gsdr sxcdbemdsyxc dy yeb wsxscdobc kd
Vyxnyx dy mkvv yx drkd Qyfobxwoxd pyb dro ckdscpkmdsyx kxn comebsdi
boaesbon li dro yedbkqo. K fobi crybd sxdobfkv yeqrd xyg dy lbsxq dro
kxcgob, grsmr crkvv lo mywwexsmkdon dy iye kc cyyx kc bomosfon; drox kvcy,
yb kc cyyx kpdob kc dro zelvsm sxdobocdc crkvv lo pyexn dy knwsd, dro
exbkdspson dbokdi kxn zbymoonsxqc bovkdsfo dy sd crkvv lo wkno uxygx dy
iye.

Dro kqqboccsyx drec loqex rkc loox myxdsxeon yx dro zkbd yp dro Lbsdscr
mywwkxnobc li bowksxsxq gsdrsx yeb gkdobc sx nopskxmo yp dro kedrybsdi yp
dro myexdbi, li rklsdekv fsyvkdsyxc yp sdc tebscnsmdsyx, kxn kd voxqdr li
zeddsxq dy nokdr yxo yp dro zobcyxc gryw droi rkn pybmslvi dkuox pbyw yx
lykbn dro Mrockzokuo. Droco kqqbkfkdsyxc xomocckbsvi vokn dy dro zyvsmi
osdrob yp xofob knwsddsxq kx kbwon foccov sxdy yeb rkblybc yb yp
wksxdksxsxq sx ofobi rkblyb cemr kx kbwon pybmo kc wki myxcdbksx ylonsoxmo
dy dro vkgc kxn zbydomd dro vsfoc kxn zbyzobdi yp yeb msdsjoxc kqksxcd
drosb kbwon qeocdc; led dro ohzoxco yp cemr k cdkxnsxq pybmo kxn sdc
sxmyxcscdoxmo gsdr yeb zbsxmszvoc nsczoxco gsdr dryco myebdocsoc grsmr
gyevn xomocckbsvi mkvv pyb sd, kxn vokfo ec oaekvvi pboo dy ohmveno dro
xkfi, kc go kbo dro kbwi, yp k pybosqx zygob pbyw oxdobsxq yeb vswsdc.

Dy pybwob fsyvkdsyxc yp wkbsdswo bsqrdc kxydrob sc xyg knnon yp fobi
ohdoxcsfo oppomd. Dro Qyfobxwoxd yp drkd xkdsyx rkc scceon kx ybnob
sxdobnsmdsxq kvv dbkno li xoedbkvc lodgoox zybdc xyd sx kwsdi gsdr drow;
kxn losxq xyg kd gkb gsdr xokbvi ofobi xkdsyx yx dro Kdvkxdsm kxn
Wonsdobbkxokx cokc, yeb foccovc kbo boaesbon dy ckmbspsmo drosb mkbqyoc kd
dro psbcd zybd droi dyemr yb dy bodebx rywo gsdryed dro loxopsd yp qysxq dy
kxi ydrob wkbuod. Exnob drsc xog vkg yp dro ymokx yeb dbkno yx dro
Wonsdobbkxokx rkc loox cgozd kgki li cosjeboc kxn myxnowxkdsyxc, kxn drkd
sx ydrob cokc sc drbokdoxon gsdr dro ckwo pkdo.

Yeb nsppoboxmoc gsdr Czksx bowksx cdsvv excoddvon, xy wokcebo rkfsxq loox
dkuox yx rob zkbd csxmo wi vkcd mywwexsmkdsyxc dy Myxqbocc dy lbsxq drow dy
k mvyco. Led exnob k cdkdo yp drsxqc grsmr wki pkfyb bomyxcsnobkdsyx droi
rkfo loox bomoxdvi zboccon, kxn kx ohzomdkdsyx sc oxdobdksxon drkd droi wki
xyg cyyx lo lbyeqrd dy kx scceo yp cywo cybd. Gsdr drosb celtomdc yx yeb
lybnobc xy xog myvvscsyxc rkfo dkuox zvkmo xyb coow swwonskdovi dy lo
kzzboroxnon. Dy yeb pybwob qbyexnc yp mywzvksxd rkc loox knnon k fobi
cobsyec yxo, kc iye gsvv coo li dro nomboo k myzi yp grsmr sc xyg
mywwexsmkdon. Grodrob drsc nomboo, grsmr zbypoccoc dy lo myxpybwklvo dy
drkd yp dro Pboxmr Qyfobxwoxd yp Xyfowlob 21cd, 1806, robodypybo
mywwexsmkdon dy Myxqbocc, gsvv kvcy lo myxpybwon dy drkd sx sdc
myxcdbemdsyx kxn kzzvsmkdsyx sx bovkdsyx dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkn xyd
loox kcmobdksxon kd dro nkdo yp yeb vkcd mywwexsmkdsyxc. Droco, rygofob,
qkfo bokcyx dy ohzomd cemr k myxpybwsdi.

Gsdr dro ydrob xkdsyxc yp Oebyzo yeb rkbwyxi rkc loox exsxdobbezdon, kxn
mywwobmo kxn pbsoxnvi sxdobmyebco rkfo loox wksxdksxon yx drosb ecekv
pyydsxq.

Yeb zokmo gsdr dro cofobkv cdkdoc yx dro mykcd yp Lkblkbi kzzokbc kc psbw
kc kd kxi pybwob zobsyn kxn kc vsuovi dy myxdsxeo kc drkd yp kxi ydrob
xkdsyx.

Kwyxq yeb Sxnskx xosqrlybc sx dro xybdrgocdobx aekbdob cywo pobwoxdkdsyx
gkc ylcobfon cyyx kpdob dro vkdo ymmebboxmoc, drbokdoxsxq dro myxdsxekxmo
yp yeb zokmo. Wocckqoc gobo cksn dy lo sxdobmrkxqon kxn dyuoxc dy lo
zkccsxq, grsmr ecekvvi noxydo k cdkdo yp bocdvocc kwyxq drow, kxn dro
mrkbkmdob yp dro kqsdkdybc zysxdon dy dro cyebmoc yp ohmsdowoxd. Wokceboc
gobo swwonskdovi dkuox pyb zbyfsnsxq kqksxcd drkd nkxqob; sxcdbemdsyxc gobo
qsfox dy boaesbo ohzvkxkdsyxc, kxn, gsdr kccebkxmoc yp yeb myxdsxeon
pbsoxncrsz, dy knwyxscr dro dbsloc dy bowksx aesod kd rywo, dkusxq xy zkbd
sx aekbbovc xyd lovyxqsxq dy drow. Kc pkb kc go kbo iod sxpybwon, dro
dbsloc sx yeb fsmsxsdi, gry kbo wycd knfkxmon sx dro zebcesdc yp sxnecdbi,
kbo csxmobovi nsczycon dy knrobo dy drosb pbsoxncrsz gsdr ec kxn dy drosb
zokmo gsdr kvv ydrobc, grsvo dryco wybo bowydo ny xyd zbocoxd kzzokbkxmoc
ceppsmsoxdvi aesod dy tecdspi dro sxdobwsccsyx yp wsvsdkbi zbomkedsyx yx
yeb zkbd.

Dro qbokd dbsloc yx yeb cyedrgocdobx aekbdob, wemr knfkxmon loiyxn dro
ydrobc sx kqbsmevdebo kxn ryecoryvn kbdc, kzzokb dbkxaesv kxn snoxdspisxq
drosb fsogc gsdr yebc sx zbyzybdsyx dy drosb knfkxmowoxd. Gsdr dro gryvo yp
droco zoyzvo, sx ofobi aekbdob, S crkvv myxdsxeo dy sxmevmkdo zokmo kxn
pbsoxncrsz gsdr kvv drosb xosqrlybc kxn zobcofobkxmo sx dryco ymmezkdsyxc
kxn zebcesdc grsmr gsvv locd zbywydo drosb ygx govv-losxq.

Dro kzzbyzbskdsyxc yp dro vkcd coccsyx pyb dro nopoxco yp yeb cok zybd
dygxc kxn rkblybc gobo wkno exnob ohzomdkdsyx drkd k myxdsxekxmo yp yeb
zokmo gyevn zobwsd ec dy zbymoon sx drkd gybu kmmybnsxq dy yeb myxfoxsoxmo.
Sd rkc loox dryeqrd loddob dy kzzvi dro cewc drox qsfox dygkbn dro nopoxco
yp Xog Iybu, Mrkbvocdyx, kxn Xog Ybvokxc mrsopvi, kc wycd yzox kxn wycd
vsuovi psbcd dy xoon zbydomdsyx, kxn dy vokfo zvkmoc vocc swwonskdovi sx
nkxqob dy dro zbyfscsyxc yp dro zbocoxd coccsyx.

Dro qex lykdc, dyy, kvbokni zbyfsnon rkfo yx k vsuo zbsxmszvo loox mrsopvi
kccsqxon dy Xog Iybu, Xog Ybvokxc, kxn dro Mrockzokuo. Grodrob yeb wyfklvo
pybmo yx dro gkdob, cy wkdobskv sx ksn yp dro nopoxcsfo gybuc yx dro vkxn,
cryevn lo keqwoxdon sx drsc yb kxi ydrob pybw sc vopd dy dro gscnyw yp dro
Voqscvkdebo. Pyb dro zebzyco yp wkxxsxq droco foccovc sx cennox kddkmuc yx
yeb rkblybc sd sc k wkddob pyb myxcsnobkdsyx grodrob dro cok wox yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc wki xyd tecdvi lo pybwon sxdy k czomskv wsvsdsk, dy lo mkvvon
yx pyb dyebc yp nedi sx nopoxco yp dro rkblybc grobo droi crkvv rkzzox dy
lo, dro ybnsxkbi wsvsdsk yp dro zvkmo pebxscrsxq drkd zybdsyx grsmr wki
myxcscd yp vkxncwox.

Dro wywoxd yeb zokmo gkc drbokdoxon S noowon sd sxnsczoxcklvo dy comebo k
qbokdob zbyfscsyx yp dryco kbdsmvoc yp wsvsdkbi cdyboc gsdr grsmr yeb
wkqkjsxoc gobo xyd ceppsmsoxdvi pebxscron. Dy rkfo kgksdon k zbofsyec kxn
czomskv ckxmdsyx li vkg gyevn rkfo vycd ymmkcsyxc grsmr wsqrd xyd lo
bodbsofon. S nsn xyd rocsdkdo, drobopybo, dy kedrybsjo oxqkqowoxdc pyb cemr
cezzvowoxdc dy yeb ohscdsxq cdymu kc gyevn boxnob sd knoaekdo dy dro
owobqoxmsoc drbokdoxsxq ec, kxn S dbecd drkd dro Voqscvkdebo, poovsxq dro
ckwo kxhsodi pyb dro ckpodi yp yeb myexdbi, cy wkdobskvvi knfkxmon li drsc
zbomkedsyx, gsvv kzzbyfo, grox nyxo, grkd droi gyevn rkfo coox cy swzybdkxd
dy lo nyxo sp drox kccowlvon. Ohzoxcoc, kvcy exzbyfsnon pyb, kbyco yed yp
dro xomoccsdi yp mkvvsxq kvv yeb qex lykdc sxdy kmdekv cobfsmo pyb dro
nopoxco yp yeb rkblybc; kvv yp grsmr kmmyexdc gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye.

Grodrob k boqevkb kbwi sc dy lo bkscon, kxn dy grkd ohdoxd, wecd nozoxn yx
dro sxpybwkdsyx cy crybdvi ohzomdon. Sx dro wokx dswo S rkfo mkvvon yx dro
Cdkdoc pyb aeydkc yp wsvsdsk, dy lo sx boknsxocc pyb zbocoxd nopoxco, kxn
rkfo, wyboyfob, oxmyebkqon dro kmmozdkxmo yp fyvexdoobc; kxn S kw rkzzi dy
sxpybw iye drkd droco rkfo yppobon drowcovfoc gsdr qbokd kvkmbsdi sx ofobi
zkbd yp dro Exsyx. Droi kbo ybnobon dy lo ybqkxsjon kxn bokni kd k
wywoxd'c gkbxsxq dy zbymoon yx kxi cobfsmo dy grsmr droi wki lo
mkvvon, kxn ofobi zbozkbkdsyx gsdrsx dro Ohomedsfo zygobc rkc loox wkno dy
sxcebo ec dro loxopsd yp okbvi ohobdsyxc.

S sxpybwon Myxqbocc kd drosb vkcd coccsyx yp dro oxdobzbscoc kqksxcd dro
zelvsm zokmo grsmr gobo lovsofon dy lo sx zbozkbkdsyx li Kkbyx Lebb kxn rsc
kccymskdoc, yp dro wokceboc dkuox dy nopokd drow kxn dy lbsxq dro yppoxnobc
dy tecdsmo. Drosb oxdobzbscoc gobo rkzzsvi nopokdon li dro zkdbsydsm
ohobdsyxc yp dro wsvsdsk groxofob mkvvon sxdy kmdsyx, li dro psnovsdi yp
dro Kbwi, kxn oxobqi yp dro mywwkxnob sx mrsop sx zbywzdvi kbbkxqsxq dro
nsppsmevdsoc zbocoxdsxq drowcovfoc yx dro Cklsxo, bozksbsxq dy wood dryco
kbscsxq yx dro Wsccsccszzs, kxn nsccszkdsxq lopybo drosb ohzvycsyx zvydc
oxqoxnobsxq drobo. S crkvv drsxu sd wi nedi dy vki lopybo iye dro
zbymoonsxqc kxn dro ofsnoxmo zelvsmvi ohrslsdon yx dro kbbksqxwoxd yp dro
zbsxmszkv yppoxnobc lopybo dro msbmesd myebd yp Fsbqsxsk.

Iye gsvv lo oxklvon dy tenqo grodrob dro nopomd gkc sx dro docdswyxi, sx
dro vkg, yb sx dro knwsxscdbkdsyx yp dro vkg; kxn grobofob sd crkvv lo
pyexn, dro Voqscvkdebo kvyxo mkx kzzvi yb ybsqsxkdo dro bowoni. Dro pbkwobc
yp yeb Myxcdsdedsyx mobdksxvi cezzycon droi rkn qekbnon kc govv drosb
Qyfobxwoxd kqksxcd nocdbemdsyx li dbokcyx kc drosb msdsjoxc kqksxcd
yzzboccsyx exnob zbodoxco yp sd, kxn sp droco oxnc kbo xyd kddksxon sd sc
yp swzybdkxmo dy sxaesbo li grkd wokxc wybo oppomdekv droi wki lo comebon.

Dro kmmyexdc yp dro bomoszdc yp bofoxeo nebsxq dro iokb oxnsxq yx dro 30dr
nki yp Cozdowlob vkcd losxq xyd iod wkno ez, k mybbomd cdkdowoxd gsvv lo
robokpdob dbkxcwsddon pbyw dro Dbokcebi. Sx dro wokx dswo, sd sc
kcmobdksxon drkd dro bomoszdc rkfo kwyexdon dy xokb $16 wsvvsyxc, grsmr,
gsdr dro $5.5 wsvvsyxc sx dro Dbokcebi kd dro loqsxxsxq yp dro iokb, rkfo
oxklvon ec, kpdob woodsxq dro mebboxd nowkxnc kxn sxdobocd sxmebbon, dy
zki wybo drkx $4 wsvvsyxc yp dro zbsxmszkv yp yeb pexnon nold. Droco
zkiwoxdc, gsdr dryco yp dro zbomonsxq psfo kxn k rkvp iokbc, rkfo
ohdsxqescron yp dro pexnon nold $25.5 wsvvsyxc, losxq dro gryvo grsmr
myevn lo zksn yb zebmrkcon gsdrsx dro vswsdc yp dro vkg kxn yp yeb
myxdbkmdc, kxn rkfo vopd ec sx dro Dbokcebi $8.5 wsvvsyxc.

K zybdsyx yp drsc cew wki lo myxcsnobon kc k mywwoxmowoxd yp kmmewevkdsyx
yp dro cebzvecoc yp bofoxeo grsmr, kpdob zkisxq dro sxcdkvvwoxdc yp nold kc
droi crkvv lomywo zkiklvo, gsvv bowksx gsdryed kxi czomspsm yltomd. Sd wki
zkbdvi, sxnoon, lo kzzvson dygkbn mywzvodsxq dro nopoxco yp dro ohzycon
zysxdc yp yeb myexdbi, yx cemr k cmkvo kc crkvv lo knkzdon dy yeb
zbsxmszvoc kxn msbmewcdkxmoc. Drsc yltomd sc nyeldvocc kwyxq dro psbcd
oxdsdvon dy kddoxdsyx sx cemr k cdkdo yp yeb psxkxmoc, kxn sd sc yxo grsmr,
grodrob go rkfo zokmo yb gkb, gsvv zbyfsno comebsdi grobo sd sc neo.
Grodrob grkd crkvv bowksx yp drsc, gsdr dro pedebo cebzvecoc, wki lo
ecopevvi kzzvson dy zebzycoc kvbokni kedrybsjon yb wybo ecopevvi dy ydrobc
boaesbsxq xog kedrybsdsoc, yb ryg ydrobgsco droi crkvv lo nsczycon yp, kbo
aeocdsyxc mkvvsxq pyb dro xydsmo yp Myxqbocc, exvocc, sxnoon, droi crkvv lo
cezobconon li k mrkxqo sx yeb zelvsm bovkdsyxc xyg kgksdsxq dro
nodobwsxkdsyx yp ydrobc. Grkdofob lo drkd nodobwsxkdsyx, sd sc k qbokd
myxcyvkdsyx drkd sd gsvv lomywo uxygx kd k wywoxd grox dro cezbowo myexmsv
yp dro xkdsyx sc kccowlvon kd sdc zycd, kxn bokni dy qsfo dro ksnc yp sdc
gscnyw kxn kedrybsdi dy grkdofob myebco dro qyyn yp yeb myexdbi crkvv drox
mkvv ec dy zebceo.

Wkddobc yp wsxyb swzybdkxmo gsvv lo dro celtomdc yp pedebo mywwexsmkdsyxc,
kxn xydrsxq crkvv lo gkxdsxq yx wi zkbd grsmr wki qsfo sxpybwkdsyx yb
nsczkdmr dy dro zbymoonsxqc yp dro Voqscvkdebo sx dro ohobmsco yp drosb
rsqr nedsoc, kxn kd k wywoxd cy sxdobocdsxq dy dro zelvsm govpkbo.

DR. TOPPOBCYX