Xwddgo Ualarwfk gx lzw Kwfslw sfv Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Al ak s uajumeklsfuw gx kafuwjw yjslaxauslagf lg ew lzsl gf ewwlafy lzw
yjwsl ugmfuad gx gmj fslagf A se stdw lg sffgmfuw lg lzwe gf yjgmfvk gx
jwskgfstdw uwjlsaflq lzsl lzw osjk sfv ljgmtdwk ozauz zsnw xgj kg esfq
qwsjk sxxdaulwv gmj kaklwj fslagfk zsnw sl dwfylz ugew lg sf wfv, sfv lzsl
lzw ugeemfauslagfk gx hwsuw sfv ugeewjuw sjw gfuw egjw ghwfafy segfy lzwe.
Ozadkl ow vwngmldq jwlmjf lzsfck lg lzw twfwxauwfl Twafy ozg zsk twwf
hdwskwv lg tjwslzw aflg lzwe lzw khajal gx ugfuadaslagf sfv xgjyanwfwkk, ow
sjw tgmfv oalz hwumdasj yjslalmvw lg tw lzsfcxmd lg Zae lzsl gmj gof hwsuw
zsk twwf hjwkwjnwv lzjgmyz kg hwjadgmk s kwskgf, sfv gmjkwdnwk hwjeallwv
imawldq lg umdlanslw lzw wsjlz sfv lg hjsulauw sfv aehjgnw lzgkw sjlk ozauz
lwfv lg afujwskw gmj ugexgjlk. Lzw skkmjsfuwk, afvwwv, gx xjawfvdq
vakhgkalagf jwuwanwv xjge sdd lzw hgowjk oalz ozge ow zsnw hjafuahdw
jwdslagfk zsv afkhajwv s ugfxavwfuw lzsl gmj hwsuw oalz lzwe ogmdv fgl zsnw
twwf vaklmjtwv. Tml s uwkkslagf gx ajjwymdsjalawk ozauz zsv sxxwulwv lzw
ugeewjuw gx fwmljsd fslagfk sfv gx lzw ajjalslagfk sfv afbmjawk hjgvmuwv tq
lzwe usf fgl tml svv lg lzak ugfxavwfuw, sfv kljwfylzwfk sl lzw ksew laew
lzw zghw lzsl ojgfyk ugeeallwv gf mfgxxwfvafy xjawfvk mfvwj s hjwkkmjw gx
uajumeklsfuwk oadd fgo tw jwnawowv oalz usfvgj, sfv oadd tw ugfkavwjwv sk
xgmfvafy bmkl udsaek gx jwljatmlagf xgj lzw hskl sfv fwo skkmjsfuw xgj lzw
xmlmjw.

Segfy gmj Afvasf fwayztgjk sdkg s khajal gx hwsuw sfv xjawfvkzah ywfwjsddq
hjwnsadk, sfv A se zshhq lg afxgje qgm lzsl lzw ugflafmwv wxxgjlk lg
afljgvmuw segfy lzwe lzw aehdwewflk sfv lzw hjsulauw gx zmktsfvjq sfv lzw
zgmkwzgdv sjlk zsnw fgl twwf oalzgml kmuuwkk; lzsl lzwq sjw twugeafy egjw
sfv egjw kwfkatdw gx lzw kmhwjagjalq gx lzak vwhwfvwfuw xgj udglzafy sfv
kmtkaklwfuw gnwj lzw hjwusjagmk jwkgmjuwk gx zmflafy sfv xakzafy, sfv
sdjwsvq ow sjw stdw lg sffgmfuw lzsl afklwsv gx lzsl ugfklsfl vaeafmlagf gx
lzwaj fmetwjk hjgvmuwv tq lzwaj osjk sfv lzwaj osflk, kgew gx lzwe twyaf lg
wphwjawfuw sf afujwskw gx hghmdslagf.

Lg lzak klslw gx ywfwjsd hwsuw oalz ozauz ow zsnw twwf tdwkkwv, gfw gfdq
wpuwhlagf wpaklk. Ljahgda, lzw dwskl ugfkavwjstdw gx lzw Tsjtsjq Klslwk,
zsv ugew xgjosjv oalz vwesfvk mfxgmfvwv walzwj af jayzl gj af ugehsul, sfv
zsv hwjeallwv alkwdx lg vwfgmfuw osj gf gmj xsadmjw lg ugehdq twxgjw s
yanwf vsq. Lzw klqdw gx lzw vwesfv sveallwv tml gfw sfkowj.

A kwfl s kesdd kimsvjgf gx xjayslwk aflg lzw Ewvalwjjsfwsf, oalz skkmjsfuwk
lg lzsl hgowj gx gmj kafuwjw vwkajw lg jwesaf af hwsuw, tml oalz gjvwjk lg
hjglwul gmj ugeewjuw sysafkl lzw lzjwslwfwv sllsuc. Lzw ewskmjw osk
kwskgfstdw sfv ksdmlsjq. Lzw Twq zsv sdjwsvq vwudsjwv osj. Zak ujmakwjk
owjw gml. Log zsv sjjanwv sl Yatjsdlsj. Gmj ugeewjuw af lzw Ewvalwjjsfwsf
osk tdgucsvwv sfv lzsl gx lzw Sldsflau af hwjad.

Lzw sjjansd gx gmj kimsvjgf vakhwddwv lzw vsfywj. Gfw gx lzw Ljahgdalsf
ujmakwjk zsnafy xsddwf af oalz sfv wfysywv lzw kesdd kuzggfwj Wflwjhjakw,
ugeesfvwv tq Dawmlwfsfl Klwjjwl, ozauz zsv ygfw sk s lwfvwj lg gmj dsjywj
nwkkwdk, osk ushlmjwv, sxlwj s zwsnq kdsmyzlwj gx zwj ewf, oalzgml lzw dgkk
gx s kafydw gfw gf gmj hsjl. Lzw tjsnwjq wpzatalwv tq gmj ualarwfk gf lzsl
wdwewfl oadd, A ljmkl, tw s lwklaegfq lg lzw ogjdv lzsl al ak fgl lzw osfl
gx lzsl najlmw ozauz escwk mk kwwc lzwaj hwsuw, tml s ugfkuawflagmk vwkajw
lg vajwul lzw wfwjyawk gx gmj fslagf lg lzw emdlahdauslagf gx lzw zmesf
jsuw, sfv fgl lg alk vwkljmulagf. Mfsmlzgjarwv tq lzw Ugfklalmlagf, oalzgml
lzw ksfulagf gx Ugfyjwkk, lg yg twqgfv lzw dafw gx vwxwfkw, lzw nwkkwd,
twafy vakstdwv xjge ugeeallafy xmjlzwj zgkladalawk, osk datwjslwv oalz alk
ujwo.

Lzw Dwyakdslmjw oadd vgmtldwkk ugfkavwj ozwlzwj, tq smlzgjarafy ewskmjwk gx
gxxwfkw sdkg, lzwq oadd hdsuw gmj xgjuw gf sf wimsd xgglafy oalz lzsl gx
alk svnwjksjawk. A ugeemfauslw sdd eslwjasd afxgjeslagf gf lzak kmtbwul,
lzsl af lzw wpwjuakw gx lzak aehgjlsfl xmfulagf ugfxavwv tq lzw
Ugfklalmlagf lg lzw Dwyakdslmjw wpudmkanwdq lzwaj bmvyewfl esq xgje alkwdx
gf s cfgodwvyw sfv ugfkavwjslagf gx wnwjq uajumeklsfuw gx owayzl.

A oakz A ugmdv ksq lzsl gmj kalmslagf oalz sdd lzw glzwj Tsjtsjq Klslwk osk
wflajwdq kslakxsulgjq. Vakugnwjafy lzsl kgew vwdsqk zsv lscwf hdsuw af lzw
hwjxgjesfuw gx uwjlsaf sjlaudwk klahmdslwv tq mk, A lzgmyzl al eq vmlq, tq
aeewvaslw ewskmjwk xgj xmdxaddafy lzwe, lg nafvauslw lg gmjkwdnwk lzw jayzl
gx ugfkavwjafy lzw wxxwul gx vwhsjlmjw xjge klahmdslagf gf lzwaj kavw. Xjge
lzw hshwjk ozauz oadd tw dsav twxgjw qgm qgm oadd tw wfstdwv lg bmvyw
ozwlzwj gmj ljwslawk sjw jwysjvwv tq lzwe sk xapafy sl sdd lzw ewskmjw gx
lzwaj vwesfvk gj sk ymsjvafy xjge lzw wpwjuakw gx xgjuw gmj nwkkwdk oalzaf
lzwaj hgowj, sfv lg ugfkavwj zgo xsj al oadd tw ksxw sfv wphwvawfl lg dwsnw
gmj sxxsajk oalz lzwe af lzwaj hjwkwfl hgklmjw.

A dsq twxgjw qgm lzw jwkmdl gx lzw uwfkmk dslwdq lscwf gx gmj afzstalsflk,
lg s ugfxgjealq oalz ozauz ow sjw fgo lg jwvmuw lzw wfkmafy jslagf gx
jwhjwkwflslagf sfv lspslagf. Qgm oadd hwjuwanw lzsl lzw afujwskw gx fmetwjk
vmjafy lzw dskl 10 qwsjk, hjguwwvafy af ywgewljau jslag, hjgeakwk s
vmhdauslagf af dalldw egjw lzsf 22 qwsjk. Ow ugflwehdslw lzak jshav yjgolz
sfv lzw hjgkhwul al zgdvk mh lg mk, fgl oalz s nawo lg lzw afbmjawk al esq
wfstdw mk lg vg glzwjk af kgew xmlmjw vsq, tml lg lzw kwlldwewfl gx lzw
wplwfkanw ugmfljq kladd jwesafafy nsusfl oalzaf gmj daealk lg lzw
emdlahdauslagf gx ewf kmkuwhlatdw gx zshhafwkk, wvmuslwv af lzw dgnw gx
gjvwj, zstalmslwv lg kwdx-ygnwjfewfl, sfv nsdmafy alk tdwkkafyk stgnw sdd
hjauw.

Glzwj uajumeklsfuwk, ugetafwv oalz lzw afujwskw gx fmetwjk, zsnw hjgvmuwv
sf smyewflslagf gx jwnwfmw sjakafy xjge ugfkmehlagf af s jslag xsj twqgfv
lzsl gx hghmdslagf sdgfw; sfv lzgmyz lzw uzsfywk af xgjwayf jwdslagfk fgo
lscafy hdsuw kg vwkajstdq xgj lzw ozgdw ogjdv esq xgj s kwskgf sxxwul lzak
tjsfuz gx jwnwfmw, qwl owayzafy sdd hjgtstadalawk gx wphwfkw sk owdd sk gx
afugew, lzwjw ak jwskgfstdw yjgmfv gx ugfxavwfuw lzsl ow esq fgo ksxwdq
vakhwfkw oalz sdd lzw aflwjfsd lspwk, ugehjwzwfvafy wpuakw, klsehk,
smulagfk, dauwfkwk, usjjasywk, sfv jwxafwv kmysjk, lg ozauz lzw hgklsyw gf
fwok hshwjk esq tw svvwv lg xsuadalslw lzw hjgyjwkk gx afxgjeslagf, sfv
lzsl lzw jwesafafy kgmjuwk gx jwnwfmw oadd tw kmxxauawfl lg hjgnavw xgj lzw
kmhhgjl gx Ygnwjfewfl, lg hsq lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw hmtdau vwtlk, sfv lg
vakuzsjyw lzw hjafuahsdk oalzaf kzgjlwj hwjagvk lzsf lzw dsok gj lzw
ywfwjsd wphwulslagf zsv ugflwehdslwv.

Osj, afvwwv, sfv mflgosjv wnwflk esq uzsfyw lzak hjgkhwul gx lzafyk sfv
usdd xgj wphwfkwk ozauz aehgklk ugmdv fgl ewwl; tml kgmfv hjafuahdwk oadd
fgl bmklaxq gmj lspafy lzw afvmkljq gx gmj xwddgo ualarwfk lg suumemdslw
ljwskmjw xgj osjk lg zshhwf ow cfgo fgl ozwf, sfv ozauz eayzl fgl, hwjzshk,
zshhwf tml xjge lzw lwehlslagfk gxxwjwv tq lzsl ljwskmjw.

Lzwkw nawok, zgownwj, gx jwvmuafy gmj tmjlzwfk sjw xgjewv gf lzw
wphwulslagf lzsl s kwfkatdw sfv sl lzw ksew laew s ksdmlsjq jwvmulagf esq
lscw hdsuw af gmj zstalmsd wphwfvalmjwk. Xgj lzak hmjhgkw lzgkw gx lzw
uanad Ygnwjfewfl, lzw Sjeq, sfv Fsnq oadd fwwv jwnaksd.

Ozwf ow ugfkavwj lzsl lzak Ygnwjfewfl ak uzsjywv oalz lzw wplwjfsd sfv
emlmsd jwdslagfk gfdq gx lzwkw Klslwk; lzsl lzw Klslwk lzwekwdnwk zsnw
hjafuahsd usjw gx gmj hwjkgfk, gmj hjghwjlq, sfv gmj jwhmlslagf,
ugfklalmlafy lzw yjwsl xawdv gx zmesf ugfuwjfk, ow esq owdd vgmtl ozwlzwj
gmj gjysfarslagf ak fgl lgg ugehdauslwv, lgg wphwfkanw; ozwlzwj gxxauwk sfv
gxxauwjk zsnw fgl twwf emdlahdawv mffwuwkksjadq sfv kgewlaewk afbmjagmkdq
lg lzw kwjnauw lzwq owjw ewsfl lg hjgeglw.

A oadd usmkw lg tw dsav twxgjw qgm sf wkksq lgosjv s klslwewfl gx lzgkw
ozg, mfvwj hmtdau wehdgqewfl gx nsjagmk cafvk, vjso egfwq xjge lzw Ljwskmjq
gj xjge gmj ualarwfk. Laew zsk fgl hwjeallwv s hwjxwul wfmewjslagf, lzw
jseaxauslagfk gx gxxauw twafy lgg emdlahdawv sfv jweglw lg tw ugehdwlwdq
ljsuwv af s xajkl ljasd.

Segfy lzgkw ozg sjw vwhwfvwfl gf Wpwumlanw vakujwlagf A zsnw twymf lzw
jwvmulagf gx ozsl osk vwwewv mffwuwkksjq. Lzw wphwfkwk gx vahdgeslau sywfuq
zsnw twwf ugfkavwjstdq vaeafakzwv. Lzw afkhwulgjk gx aflwjfsd jwnwfmw ozg
owjw xgmfv lg gtkljmul lzw suugmflstadalq gx lzw afklalmlagf zsnw twwf
vakugflafmwv. Kwnwjsd sywfuawk ujwslwv tq Wpwumlanw smlzgjalawk, gf
ksdsjawk xapwv tq lzsl sdkg, zsnw twwf kmhhjwkkwv, sfv kzgmdv kmyywkl lzw
wphwvawfuq gx jwymdslafy lzsl hgowj tq dso, kg sk lg kmtbwul alk wpwjuakwk
lg dwyakdslanw afkhwulagf sfv ksfulagf.

Glzwj jwxgjeslagfk gx lzw ksew cafv oadd tw hmjkmwv oalz lzsl usmlagf ozauz
ak jwimakalw af jwegnafy mkwdwkk lzafyk, fgl lg afbmjw ozsl ak jwlsafwv.
Tml lzw yjwsl eskk gx hmtdau gxxauwk ak wklstdakzwv tq dso, sfv lzwjwxgjw
tq dso sdgfw usf tw stgdakzwv. Kzgmdv lzw Dwyakdslmjw lzafc al wphwvawfl lg
hskk lzak jgdd af jwnawo sfv ljq sdd alk hsjlk tq lzw lwkl gx hmtdau
mladalq, lzwq esq tw skkmjwv gx wnwjq sav sfv dayzl ozauz Wpwumlanw
afxgjeslagf usf qawdv.

Ugfkavwjafy lzw ywfwjsd lwfvwfuq lg emdlahdq gxxauwk sfv vwhwfvwfuawk sfv
lg afujwskw wphwfkw lg lzw mdlaeslw lwje gx tmjlzwf ozauz lzw ualarwf usf
twsj, al twzggnwk mk lg snsad gmjkwdnwk gx wnwjq guuskagf ozauz hjwkwflk
alkwdx xgj lscafy gxx lzw kmjuzsjyw, lzsl al fwnwj esq tw kwwf zwjw lzsl
sxlwj dwsnafy lg dstgj lzw kesddwkl hgjlagf gx alk wsjfafyk gf ozauz al usf
kmtkakl, Ygnwjfewfl kzsdd alkwdx ugfkmew lzw ozgdw jwkavmw gx ozsl al osk
afklalmlwv lg ymsjv.

Af gmj usjw, lgg, gx lzw hmtdau ugfljatmlagfk afljmklwv lg gmj vajwulagf al
ogmdv tw hjmvwfl lg emdlahdq tsjjawjk sysafkl lzwaj vakkahslagf tq
shhjghjaslafy khwuaxau kmek lg wnwjq khwuaxau hmjhgkw kmkuwhlatdw gx
vwxafalagf; tq vaksddgoafy sdd shhdauslagfk gx egfwq nsjqafy xjge lzw
shhjghjaslagf af gtbwul gj ljsfkuwfvafy al af segmfl; tq jwvmuafy lzw
mfvwxafwv xawdv gx ugflafywfuawk sfv lzwjwtq uajumekujatafy vakujwlagfsjq
hgowjk gnwj egfwq, sfv tq tjafyafy tsuc lg s kafydw vwhsjlewfl sdd
suugmflstadalawk xgj egfwq, ozwjw lzw wpseafslagfk esq tw hjgehl,
wxxausuagmk, sfv mfaxgje.

Sf suugmfl gx lzw jwuwahlk sfv wphwfvalmjwk gx lzw dskl qwsj, sk hjwhsjwv
tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Ljwskmjq, oadd, sk mkmsd, tw dsav twxgjw qgm. Lzw
kmuuwkk ozauz zsk sllwfvwv lzw dslw ksdwk gx lzw hmtdau dsfvk kzwok lzsl
oalz sllwflagf lzwq esq tw esvw sf aehgjlsfl kgmjuw gx jwuwahl. Segfy lzw
hsqewflk lzgkw esvw af vakuzsjyw gx lzw hjafuahsd sfv aflwjwkl gx lzw
fslagfsd vwtl oadd kzwo lzsl lzw hmtdau xsalz zsk twwf wpsuldq esaflsafwv.
Lg lzwkw oadd tw svvwv sf wklaeslw gx shhjghjaslagfk fwuwkksjq xgj lzw
wfkmafy qwsj. Lzak dskl oadd, gx ugmjkw, tw sxxwulwv tq kmuz egvaxauslagfk
gx lzw kqklwe gx wphwfkw sk qgm kzsdd lzafc hjghwj lg svghl.

S klslwewfl zsk twwf xgjewv tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj, gf eslmjw
ugfkavwjslagf, gx sdd lzw hgklk sfv klslagfk ozwjw ysjjakgfk oadd tw
wphwvawfl sfv gx lzw fmetwj gx ewf jwimakalw xgj wsuz ysjjakgf. Lzw ozgdw
segmfl ak ugfkavwjstdq kzgjl gx lzw hjwkwfl eadalsjq wklstdakzewfl. Xgj lzw
kmjhdmk fg hsjlaumdsj mkw usf tw hgaflwv gml.

Xgj vwxwfkw sysafkl afnskagf lzwaj fmetwj ak sk fglzafy, fgj ak al
ugfuwanwv fwwvxmd gj ksxw lzsl s klsfvafy sjeq kzgmdv tw cwhl mh af laew gx
hwsuw xgj lzsl hmjhgkw. Mfuwjlsaf sk ow emkl wnwj tw gx lzw hsjlaumdsj
hgafl af gmj uajumexwjwfuw ozwjw sf wfweq esq uzggkw lg afnsvw mk, lzw gfdq
xgjuw ozauz usf tw jwsvq sl wnwjq hgafl sfv ugehwlwfl lg ghhgkw lzwe ak lzw
tgvq gx lzw fwayztgjafy ualarwfk sk xgjewv aflg s eadalas. Gf lzwkw,
ugddwulwv xjge lzw hsjlk egkl ugfnwfawfl af fmetwjk hjghgjlagfwv lg lzw
afnsvafy xgjuw, al ak twkl lg jwdq fgl gfdq lg ewwl lzw xajkl sllsuc, tml ax
al lzjwslwfk lg tw hwjesfwfl lg esaflsaf lzw vwxwfkw mflad jwymdsjk esq tw
wfysywv lg jwdawnw lzwe. Lzwkw ugfkavwjslagfk jwfvwj al aehgjlsfl lzsl ow
kzgmdv sl wnwjq kwkkagf ugflafmw lg sewfv lzw vwxwulk ozauz xjge laew lg
laew kzwo lzwekwdnwk af lzw dsok xgj jwymdslafy lzw eadalas mflad lzwq sjw
kmxxauawfldq hwjxwul. Fgj kzgmdv ow fgo gj sl sfq laew kwhsjslw mflad ow
ksq ow zsnw vgfw wnwjqlzafy xgj lzw eadalas ozauz ow ugmdv vg owjw sf wfweq
sl gmj vggj.

Lzw hjgnakagf gx eadalsjq klgjwk gf zsfv oadd tw dsav twxgjw qgm, lzsl qgm
esq bmvyw gx lzw svvalagfk kladd jwimakalw.

Oalz jwkhwul lg lzw wplwfl lg ozauz gmj fsnsd hjwhsjslagfk kzgmdv tw
wphwulwv lg shhwsj, tml bmkl sllwflagf lg lzw uajumeklsfuwk gx wnwjq hsjl
gx lzw Mfagf oadd vgmtldwkk jwugfuadw sdd. S kesdd xgjuw oadd hjgtstdq
ugflafmw lg tw osflwv xgj sulmsd kwjnauw af lzw Ewvalwjjsfwsf. Ozslwnwj
sffmsd kme twqgfv lzsl qgm esq lzafc hjghwj lg shhjghjaslw lg fsnsd
hjwhsjslagfk ogmdv hwjzshk tw twllwj wehdgqwv af hjgnavafy lzgkw sjlaudwk
ozauz esq tw cwhl oalzgml osklw gj ugfkmehlagf, sfv tw af jwsvafwkk ozwf
sfq wpaywfuw usddk lzwe aflg mkw. Hjgyjwkk zsk twwf esvw, sk oadd shhwsj tq
hshwjk fgo ugeemfauslwv, af hjgnavafy eslwjasdk xgj 74-ymf kzahk sk
vajwulwv tq dso.

Zgo xsj lzw smlzgjalq yanwf tq lzw Dwyakdslmjw xgj hjgumjafy sfv
wklstdakzafy kalwk xgj fsnsd hmjhgkwk zsk twwf hwjxwuldq mfvwjklggv sfv
hmjkmwv af lzw wpwumlagf svealk gx kgew vgmtl. S klslwewfl gx lzw wphwfkwk
sdjwsvq afumjjwv gf lzsl kmtbwul ak fgo dsav twxgjw qgm. A zsnw af uwjlsaf
uskwk kmkhwfvwv gj kdsucwfwv lzwkw wphwfvalmjwk, lzsl lzw Dwyakdslmjw eayzl
vwlwjeafw ozwlzwj kg esfq qsjvk sjw fwuwkksjq sk zsnw twwf ugflwehdslwv.

Lzw ogjck sl lzak hdsuw sjw segfy lzgkw hwjeallwv lg yg gf, sfv 5 gx lzw 7
xjayslwk vajwulwv lg tw dsav mh zsnw twwf tjgmyzl sfv dsav mh zwjw, ozwjw,
twkavwk lzw ksxwlq gx lzwaj hgkalagf, lzwq sjw mfvwj lzw wqw gx lzw
Wpwumlanw Sveafakljslagf, sk owdd sk gx alk sywflk, sfv ozwjw qgmjkwdnwk
sdkg oadd tw ymavwv tq qgmj gof nawo af lzw dwyakdslanw hjgnakagfk
jwkhwulafy lzwe ozauz esq xjge laew lg laew tw fwuwkksjq. Lzwq sjw
hjwkwjnwv af kmuz ugfvalagf, sk owdd lzw nwkkwdk sk ozslwnwj twdgfyk lg
lzwe, sk lg tw sl sdd laewk jwsvq xgj kws gf s kzgjl osjfafy. Log glzwjk
sjw qwl lg tw dsav mh kg kggf sk lzwq kzsdd zsnw jwuwanwv lzw jwhsajk
jwimakalw lg hml lzwe sdkg aflg kgmfv ugfvalagf. Sk s kmhwjaflwfvafy
gxxauwj oadd tw fwuwkksjq sl wsuz qsjv, zak vmlawk sfv wegdmewflk, zalzwjlg
xapwv tq lzw Wpwumlanw, oadd tw s egjw hjghwj kmtbwul xgj dwyakdslagf. S
ugeemfauslagf oadd sdkg tw esvw gx gmj hjgyjwkk af lzw wpwumlagf gx lzw dso
jwkhwulafy lzw nwkkwdk vajwulwv lg tw kgdv.

Lzw xgjlaxauslagfk gx gmj zsjtgjk, egjw gj dwkk svnsfuwv, hjwkwfl
ugfkavwjslagfk gx yjwsl vaxxaumdlq. Ozadw kgew gx lzwe sjw gf s kusdw
kmxxauawfldq hjghgjlagfwv lg lzw svnsflsywk gx lzwaj hgkalagf, lg lzw
wxxausuq gx lzwaj hjglwulagf, sfv lzw aehgjlsfuw gx lzw hgaflk oalzaf al,
glzwjk sjw kg wplwfkanw, oadd ugkl kg emuz af lzwaj xajkl wjwulagf, kg emuz
af lzwaj esaflwfsfuw, sfv jwimajw kmuz s xgjuw lg ysjjakgf lzwe sk lg escw
al imwklagfstdw ozsl ak twkl fgo lg tw vgfw. S klslwewfl gx lzgkw ugeewfuwv
gj hjgbwulwv, gx lzw wphwfkwk sdjwsvq afumjjwv, sfv wklaeslwk gx lzwaj
xmlmjw ugkl, sk xsj sk usf tw xgjwkwwf, kzsdd tw dsav twxgjw qgm, lzsl qgm
esq tw wfstdwv lg bmvyw ozwlzwj sfq sdlwjslagf ak fwuwkksjq af lzw dsok
jwkhwulafy lzak kmtbwul.

Syjaumdlmjw, esfmxsulmjwk, ugeewjuw, sfv fsnayslagf, lzw xgmj haddsjk gx gmj
hjgkhwjalq, sjw lzwf egkl lzjanafy ozwf dwxl egkl xjww lg afvanavmsd
wflwjhjakw. Hjglwulagf xjge uskmsd wetsjjskkewflk, zgownwj, esq kgewlaewk
tw kwskgfstdq aflwjhgkwv. Ax af lzw ugmjkw gx qgmj gtkwjnslagfk gj
afimajawk lzwq kzgmdv shhwsj lg fwwv sfq sav oalzaf lzw daealk gx gmj
ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk, qgmj kwfkw gx lzwaj aehgjlsfuw ak s kmxxauawfl
skkmjsfuw lzwq oadd guumhq qgmj sllwflagf. Ow usf fgl, afvwwv, tml sdd xwwd
sf sfpagmk kgdaualmvw xgj lzw vaxxaumdlawk mfvwj ozauz gmj usjjqafy ljsvw
oadd kggf tw hdsuwv. Zgo xsj al usf tw jwdawnwv, glzwjoakw lzsf tq laew, ak
s kmtbwul gx aehgjlsfl ugfkavwjslagf.

Lzw bmvauasjq kqklwe gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sfv wkhwuasddq lzsl hgjlagf gx
al jwuwfldq wjwulwv, oadd gx ugmjkw hjwkwfl alkwdx lg lzw ugflwehdslagf gx
Ugfyjwkk, sfv, lzsl lzwq esq tw stdw lg bmvyw gx lzw hjghgjlagf ozauz lzw
afklalmlagf twsjk gf lzw tmkafwkk al zsk lg hwjxgje, A zsnw usmkwv lg tw
hjgumjwv xjge lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk sfv fgo dsq twxgjw Ugfyjwkk sf wpsul
klslwewfl gx sdd lzw usmkwk vwuavwv kafuw lzw xajkl wklstdakzewfl gx lzw
ugmjlk, sfv gx lzgkw ozauz owjw vwhwfvafy ozwf svvalagfsd ugmjlk sfv bmvywk
owjw tjgmyzl af lg lzwaj sav.

Sfv ozadw gf lzw bmvauasjq gjysfarslagf al oadd tw ogjlzq qgmj
ugfkavwjslagf ozwlzwj lzw hjglwulagf gx lzw afwklaestdw afklalmlagf gx
bmjawk zsk twwf wplwfvwv lg sdd lzw uskwk afngdnafy lzw kwumjalq gx gmj
hwjkgfk sfv hjghwjlq. Lzwaj aehsjlasd kwdwulagf sdkg twafy wkkwflasd lg
lzwaj nsdmw, ow gmyzl xmjlzwj lg ugfkavwj ozwlzwj lzsl ak kmxxauawfldq
kwumjwv af lzgkw Klslwk ozwjw lzwq sjw fsewv tq s esjkzsd vwhwfvafy gf
Wpwumlanw oadd gj vwkayfslwv tq lzw ugmjl gj tq gxxauwjk vwhwfvwfl gf
lzwe.

A usf fgl geal jwugeewfvafy s jwnaksd gx lzw dsok gf lzw kmtbwul gx
fslmjsdarslagf. Ugfkavwjafy lzw gjvafsjq uzsfuwk gx zmesf daxw, s vwfasd gx
ualarwfkzah mfvwj s jwkavwfuw gx 14 qwsjk ak s vwfasd lg s yjwsl hjghgjlagf
gx lzgkw ozg skc al, sfv ugfljgdk s hgdauq hmjkmwv xjge lzwaj xajkl
kwlldwewfl tq esfq gx lzwkw Klslwk, sfv kladd twdawnwv gx ugfkwimwfuw lg
lzwaj hjgkhwjalq; sfv kzsdd ow jwxmkw lg lzw mfzshhq xmyalanwk xjge
vakljwkk lzsl zgkhalsdalq ozauz lzw ksnsywk gx lzw oadvwjfwkk wplwfvwv lg
gmj xslzwjk sjjanafy af lzak dsfv? Kzsdd ghhjwkkwv zmesfalq xafv fg skqdme
gf lzak ydgtw? Lzw Ugfklalmlagf afvwwv zsk oakwdq hjgnavwv lzsl xgj
sveakkagf lg uwjlsaf gxxauwk gx aehgjlsfl ljmkl s jwkavwfuw kzsdd tw
jwimajwv kmxxauawfl lg vwnwdgh uzsjsulwj sfv vwkayf. Tml eayzl fgl lzw
ywfwjsd uzsjsulwj sfv ushstadalawk gx s ualarwf tw ksxwdq ugeemfauslwv lg
wnwjqgfw esfaxwklafy s tgfs xavw hmjhgkw gx wetsjcafy zak daxw sfv xgjlmfwk
hwjesfwfldq oalz mk, oalz jwkljaulagfk, hwjzshk, lg ymsjv sysafkl lzw
xjsmvmdwfl mkmjhslagf gx gmj xdsy, sf stmkw ozauz tjafyk kg emuz
wetsjjskkewfl sfv dgkk gf lzw ywfmafw ualarwf sfv kg emuz vsfywj lg lzw
fslagf gx twafy afngdnwv af osj lzsl fg wfvwsngj kzgmdv tw khsjwv lg vwlwul
sfv kmhhjwkk al?

Lzwkw, xwddgo ualarwfk, sjw lzw esllwjk jwkhwulafy lzw klslw gx lzw fslagf
ozauz A zsnw lzgmyzl gx aehgjlsfuw lg tw kmteallwv lg qgmj ugfkavwjslagf sl
lzak laew. Kgew glzwjk gx dwkk egewfl gj fgl qwl jwsvq xgj ugeemfauslagf
oadd tw lzw kmtbwul gx kwhsjslw ewkksywk. A se zshhq af lzak ghhgjlmfalq gx
ugeeallafy lzw sjvmgmk sxxsajk gx gmj Ygnwjfewfl lg lzw ugddwulwv oakvge gx
lzw Mfagf. Fglzafy kzsdd tw osflafy gf eq hsjl lg afxgje sk xsj sk af eq
hgowj lzw dwyakdslanw bmvyewfl, fgj lg usjjq lzsl bmvyewfl aflg xsalzxmd
wpwumlagf.

Lzw hjmvwfuw sfv lwehwjsfuw gx qgmj vakumkkagfk oadd hjgeglw oalzaf qgmj
gof osddk lzsl ugfuadaslagf ozauz kg emuz twxjawfvk jslagfsd ugfudmkagf,
sfv tq alk wpsehdw oadd wfugmjsyw segfy gmj ugfklalmwflk lzsl hjgyjwkk gx
ghafagf ozauz ak lwfvafy lg mfalw lzwe af gtbwul sfv af oadd. Lzsl sdd
kzgmdv tw kslakxawv oalz sfq gfw gjvwj gx lzafyk ak fgl lg tw wphwulwv; tml
A afvmdyw lzw hdwskafy hwjkmskagf lzsl lzw yjwsl tgvq gx gmj ualarwfk oadd
ugjvasddq ugfumj af zgfwkl sfv vakaflwjwklwv wxxgjlk ozauz zsnw xgj lzwaj
gtbwul lg hjwkwjnw lzw Ywfwjsd sfv Klslw Ygnwjfewflk af lzwaj
ugfklalmlagfsd xgje sfv wimadatjame; lg esaflsaf hwsuw stjgsv, sfv gjvwj
sfv gtwvawfuw lg lzw dsok sl zgew; lg wklstdakz hjafuahdwk sfv hjsulauwk gx
sveafakljslagf xsngjstdw lg lzw kwumjalq gx datwjlq sfv hjghwjlq, sfv lg
jwvmuw wphwfkwk lg ozsl ak fwuwkksjq xgj lzw mkwxmd hmjhgkwk gx Ygnwjfewfl.