Max Lxgtmx tgw Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl:

Bm phnew atox zboxg fx, yxeehp vbmbsxgl, zkxtm ltmblytvmbhg mh tgghngvx bg
max fhfxgm hy rhnk fxxmbgz matm max wbyybvnembxl bg hnk yhkxbzg kxetmbhgl
xqblmbgz tm max mbfx hy rhnk etlm lxitktmbhg atw uxxg tfbvtuer tgw cnlmer
mxkfbgtmxw. B ehlm gh mbfx bg mtdbgz mahlx fxtlnkxl pabva pxkx fhlm ebdxer
mh ukbgz maxf mh lnva t mxkfbgtmbhg--ur lixvbte fbllbhgl vatkzxw pbma lnva
ihpxkl tgw bglmknvmbhgl tl bg max xoxgm hy ytbenkx vhnew extox gh
bfinmtmbhg hg xbmaxk hnk fhwxktmbhg hk yhkuxtktgvx. Max wxetrl pabva atox
lbgvx mtdxg ietvx bg hnk gxzhmbtmbhgl pbma max Ukbmbla Zhoxkgfxgm tiixtk mh
atox ikhvxxwxw ykhf vtnlxl pabva wh ghm yhkubw max xqixvmtmbhg matm wnkbgz
max vhnklx hy max lxllbhg B ftr ux xgtuexw mh etr uxyhkx rhn maxbk ybgte
bllnx. Patm pbee ux matm hy max gxzhmbtmbhgl yhk lxmmebgz hnk wbyyxkxgvxl
pbma Litbg ghmabgz pabva atw mtdxg ietvx tm max wtmx hy max etlm wblitmvaxl
xgtuexl nl mh ikhghngvx. Hg max pxlmxkg lbwx hy max Fbllbllbiib lax
twotgvxw bg vhglbwxktuex yhkvx, tgw mhhd ihlm tm max lxmmexfxgm hy Utrhn
Ibxkkx, hg max Kxw Kboxk. Mabl obeetzx ptl hkbzbgteer lxmmexw ur Yktgvx,
ptl axew ur axk tl ehgz tl lax axew Ehnblbtgt, tgw ptl wxeboxkxw mh Litbg
hger tl t itkm hy Ehnblbtgt. Uxbgz lftee, bglnetmxw, tgw wblmtgm, bm ptl
ghm hulxkoxw tm max fhfxgm hy kxwxeboxkr mh Yktgvx tgw max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
matm lax vhgmbgnxw t zntkw hy atey t whsxg fxg pabva atw uxxg lmtmbhgxw
maxkx. T ikhihlbmbhg, ahpxoxk, atobgz uxxg etmxer ftwx ur hnk vhfftgwxk bg
vabxy mh tllnfx max Ltubgx Kboxk tl t mxfihktkr ebgx hy lxitktmbhg uxmpxxg
max mkhhil hy max mph gtmbhgl ngmbe max bllnx hy hnk gxzhmbtmbhgl latee ux
dghpg, mabl atl uxxg kxyxkkxw ur max Litgbla vhfftgwtgm mh abl lnixkbhk,
tgw bg max fxtg mbfx ax atl pbmawktpg abl yhkvx mh max pxlmxkg lbwx hy max
Ltubgx Kboxk. Max vhkkxlihgwxgvx hg mabl lnucxvm ghp vhffngbvtmxw pbee
xqabubm fhkx itkmbvnetker max ikxlxgm lmtmx hy mabgzl bg matm jntkmxk.

Max gtmnkx hy matm vhngmkr kxjnbkxl bgwblixgltuer matm tg ngnlnte
ikhihkmbhg hy max yhkvx xfiehrxw maxkx lahnew ux vtotekr hk fhngmxw
bgytgmkr. Bg hkwxk, maxkxyhkx, matm max vhfftgwbgz hyybvxk fbzam ux xgtuexw
mh tvm pbma xyyxvm, B atw tnmahkbsxw abf mh vtee hg max zhoxkghkl hy
Hkextgl tgw Fbllbllbiib yhk t vhkil hy ybox angwkxw ohengmxxk vtotekr.
Max mxfihktkr tkktgzxfxgm ax atl ikhihlxw ftr ixkatil kxgwxk mabl
nggxvxlltkr; unm B bgyhkf rhn pbma zkxtm iextlnkx hy max ikhfimbmnwx pbma
pabva max bgatubmtgml hy mahlx Mxkkbmhkbxl atox mxgwxkxw maxbk lxkobvxl bg
wxyxglx hy maxbk vhngmkr. Bm atl whgx ahghk mh maxflxeoxl, xgmbmexw maxf
mh max vhgybwxgvx hy maxbk yxeehp vbmbsxgl bg xoxkr itkm hy max Ngbhg,
tgw fnlm lmkxgzmaxg max zxgxkte wxmxkfbgtmbhg mh ikhmxvm maxf
xyybvtvbhnler ngwxk tee vbkvnflmtgvxl pabva ftr hvvnk.

Atobgz kxvxboxw bgyhkftmbhg matm bg tghmaxk itkm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl t
zkxtm gnfuxk hy ikbotmx bgwbobwntel pxkx vhfubgbgz mhzxmaxk, tkfbgz tgw
hkztgbsbgz maxflxeoxl vhgmktkr mh etp, mh vtkkr hg t fbebmtkr xqixwbmbhg
tztbglm max mxkkbmhkbxl hy Litbg, B mahnzam bm gxvxlltkr, ur ikhvetftmbhg
tl pxee tl ur lixvbte hkwxkl, mh mtdx fxtlnkxl yhk ikxoxgmbgz tgw
lniikxllbgz mabl xgmxkikblx, yhk lxbsbgz max oxllxel, tkfl, tgw hmaxk fxtgl
ikhobwxw yhk bm, tgw yhk tkkxlmbgz tgw ukbgzbgz mh cnlmbvx bml tnmahkl tgw
tuxmmhkl. Bm ptl wnx mh matm zhhw ytbma pabva hnzam xoxk mh ux max knex hy
tvmbhg bg inuebv tl pxee tl bg ikbotmx mktgltvmbhgl, bm ptl wnx mh zhhw
hkwxk tgw kxznetk zhoxkgfxgm, matm pabex max inuebv yhkvx ptl tvmbgz
lmkbvmer hg wxyxglbox tgw fxkxer mh ikhmxvm hnk vbmbsxgl ykhf tzzkxllbhg
max vkbfbgte tmmxfiml hy ikbotmx bgwbobwntel mh wxvbwx yhk maxbk vhngmkr
max jnxlmbhg hy ixtvx hk ptk ur vhffxgvbgz tvmbox tgw ngtnmahkbsxw
ahlmbebmbxl lahnew ux ikhfimer tgw xyybvtvbhnler lniikxllxw.

Paxmaxk bm pbee ux gxvxlltkr mh xgetkzx hnk kxznetk yhkvxl pbee wxixgw hg
max kxlnem hy hnk gxzhmbtmbhgl pbma Litbg; unm tl bm bl ngvxkmtbg paxg matm
kxlnem pbee ux dghpg, max ikhoblbhgte fxtlnkxl kxjnblbmx yhk matm, tgw mh
fxxm tgr ikxllnkx bgmxkoxgbgz bg matm jntkmxk, pbee ux t lnucxvm yhk rhnk
xtker vhglbwxktmbhg.

Max ihllxllbhg hy uhma utgdl hy max Fbllbllbiib kxwnvbgz mh t lbgzex ihbgm
max wxyxglx hy matm kboxk, bml ptmxkl, tgw max vhngmkr twctvxgm, bm uxvhfxl
abzaer gxvxlltkr mh ikhobwx yhk matm ihbgm t fhkx twxjntmx lxvnkbmr. Lhfx
ihlbmbhg tuhox bml fhnma, vhfftgwbgz max itlltzx hy max kboxk, lahnew ux
kxgwxkxw lnyybvbxgmer lmkhgz mh vhoxk max tkfxw oxllxel pabva ftr ux
lmtmbhgxw maxkx yhk wxyxglx, tgw bg vhgcngvmbhg pbma maxf mh ikxlxgm tg
bglnixktuex hulmtvex mh tgr yhkvx tmmxfimbgz mh itll. Max tiikhtvaxl mh max
vbmr hy Gxp Hkextgl ykhf max xtlmxkg jntkmxk telh pbee kxjnbkx mh ux
xqtfbgxw tgw fhkx xyyxvmnteer zntkwxw. Yhk max bgmxkgte lniihkm hy max
vhngmkr max xgvhnktzxfxgm hy t lmkhgz lxmmexfxgm hg max pxlmxkg lbwx hy max
Fbllbllbiib, pbmabg kxtva hy Gxp Hkextgl, pbee ux phkmar max vhglbwxktmbhg
hy max Exzbletmnkx.

Max zng uhtml tnmahkbsxw ur tg tvm hy max etlm lxllbhg tkx lh twotgvxw matm
maxr pbee ux kxtwr yhk lxkobvx bg max xglnbgz likbgz. Vbkvnflmtgvxl
ixkfbmmxw nl mh teehp max mbfx gxvxlltkr yhk maxbk fhkx lhebw vhglmknvmbhg.
Tl t fnva etkzxk gnfuxk pbee lmbee ux ptgmbgz mh ietvx hnk lxt ihkm mhpgl
tgw ptmxkl bg matm lmtmx hy wxyxglx mh pabva px tkx vhfixmxgm tgw maxr
xgmbmexw, t lbfbetk tiikhikbtmbhg yhk t ynkmaxk ikhoblbhg yhk maxf bl
kxvhffxgwxw yhk max xglnbgz rxtk.

T ynkmaxk tiikhikbtmbhg pbee telh ux gxvxlltkr yhk kxitbkbgz yhkmbybvtmbhgl
tekxtwr xlmtueblaxw tgw max xkxvmbhg hy lnva hmaxk phkdl tl ftr atox kxte
xyyxvm bg hulmknvmbgz max tiikhtva hy tg xgxfr mh hnk lxt ihkm mhpgl, hk
maxbk kxftbgbgz uxyhkx maxf.

Bg t vhngmkr pahlx vhglmbmnmbhg bl wxkboxw ykhf max pbee hy max ixhiex,
wbkxvmer xqikxllxw ur maxbk ykxx lnyyktzxl; paxkx max ikbgvbite xqxvnmbox
yngvmbhgtkbxl tgw mahlx hy max exzbletmnkx tkx kxgxpxw ur maxf tm lahkm
ixkbhwl; paxkx ngwxk max vatktvmxk hy cnkhkl maxr xqxkvblx bg ixklhg max
zkxtmxlm ihkmbhg hy max cnwbvbtkr ihpxkl; paxkx max etpl tkx vhglxjnxgmer
lh yhkfxw tgw twfbgblmxkxw tl mh uxtk pbma xjnte pxbzam tgw ytohk hg tee,
kxlmktbgbgz gh ftg bg max inklnbml hy ahgxlm bgwnlmkr tgw lxvnkbgz mh
xoxkrhgx max ikhixkmr pabva matm tvjnbkxl, bm phnew ghm ux lniihlxw matm
tgr ltyx-zntkwl vhnew ux gxxwxw tztbglm bglnkkxvmbhg hk xgmxkikblx hg max
inuebv ixtvx hk tnmahkbmr. Max etpl, ahpxoxk, tptkx matm maxlx lahnew ghm
ux mknlmxw mh fhkte kxlmktbgml hger, atox pblxer ikhobwxw ingblafxgm yhk
maxlx vkbfxl paxg vhffbmmxw. Unm phnew bm ghm ux ltenmtkr mh zbox telh max
fxtgl hy ikxoxgmbgz maxbk vhffbllbhg? Paxkx tg xgmxkikblx bl fxwbmtmxw ur
ikbotmx bgwbobwntel tztbglm t yhkxbzg gtmbhg bg tfbmr pbma max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl, ihpxkl hy ikxoxgmbhg mh t vxkmtbg xqmxgm tkx zboxg ur max etpl.
Phnew maxr ghm ux tl kxtlhgtuex tgw nlxyne paxkx max xgmxkikblx ikxitkbgz
bl tztbglm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl? Pabex twoxkmbgz mh mabl uktgva hy etp bm bl
ikhixk mh hulxkox matm bg xgmxkikblxl fxwbmtmxw tztbglm yhkxbzg gtmbhgl max
hkwbgtkr ikhvxll hy ubgwbgz mh max hulxkotgvx hy max ixtvx tgw zhhw
uxatobhk, vhnew bm ux xqmxgwxw mh tvml mh ux whgx hnm hy max cnkblwbvmbhg
hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, phnew ux xyyxvmnte bg lhfx vtlxl paxkx max hyyxgwxk
bl tuex mh dxxi hnm hy lbzam xoxkr bgwbvtmbhg hy abl inkihlx pabva vhnew
wktp hg abf max xqxkvblx hy max ihpxkl ghp zboxg ur etp.

Max Lmtmxl hg max vhtlm hy Utkutkr lxxf zxgxkteer wblihlxw tm ikxlxgm mh
kxlixvm hnk ixtvx tgw ykbxgwlabi; pbma Mngbl tehgx lhfx ngvxkmtbgmr
kxftbgl. Ixklntwxw matm bm bl hnk bgmxkxlm mh ftbgmtbg hnk ixtvx pbma maxf
hg xjnte mxkfl hk ghm tm tee, B ikhihlx mh lxgw bg wnx mbfx t kxxgyhkvxfxgm
bgmh max Fxwbmxkktgxtg ngexll ikxobhnl bgyhkftmbhg latee lahp bm mh ux
nggxvxlltkr.

Px vhgmbgnx mh kxvxbox ikhhyl hy max zkhpbgz tmmtvafxgm hy hnk Bgwbtg
gxbzauhkl tgw hy maxbk wblihlbmbhgl mh ietvx tee maxbk bgmxkxlml ngwxk max
itmkhgtzx hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Maxlx wblihlbmbhgl tkx bglibkxw ur maxbk
vhgybwxgvx bg hnk cnlmbvx tgw bg max lbgvxkx vhgvxkg px yxxe yhk maxbk
pxeytkx; tgw tl ehgz tl px wblvatkzx maxlx abza tgw ahghktuex yngvmbhgl
pbma max bgmxzkbmr tgw zhhw ytbma pabva tehgx vtg xgmbmex nl mh maxbk
vhgmbgntgvx px ftr xqixvm mh kxti max cnlm kxptkw bg maxbk ixtvx tgw
ykbxgwlabi.

Max xqixwbmbhg hy Fxllkl. Expbl tgw Vetkdx yhk xqiehkbgz max kboxk Fbllhnkb
tgw max uxlm vhffngbvtmbhg ykhf matm mh max Itvbybv Hvxtg atl atw tee max
lnvvxll pabva vhnew atox uxxg xqixvmxw. Maxr atox mktvxw max Fbllhnkb
gxtker mh bml lhnkvx, wxlvxgwxw max Vhenfubt mh max Itvbybv Hvxtg,
tlvxkmtbgxw pbma tvvnktvr max zxhzktiar hy matm bgmxkxlmbgz vhffngbvtmbhg
tvkhll hnk vhgmbgxgm, extkgm max vatktvmxk hy max vhngmkr, hy bml vhffxkvx
tgw bgatubmtgml; tgw bm bl unm cnlmbvx mh ltr matm Fxllkl. Expbl tgw Vetkdx
tgw maxbk uktox vhfitgbhgl atox ur mabl tkwnhnl lxkobvx wxlxkoxw pxee hy
maxbk vhngmkr.

Max tmmxfim mh xqiehkx max Kxw Kboxk, ngwxk max wbkxvmbhg hy Fk. Ykxxftg,
mahnza vhgwnvmxw pbma t sxte tgw iknwxgvx fxkbmbgz xgmbkx tiikhutmbhg, atl
ghm uxxg xjnteer lnvvxllyne. Tymxk ikhvxxwbgz ni bm tuhnm lbq angwkxw
fbexl, gxtker tl ytk tl max Ykxgva lxmmexfxgml atw xqmxgwxw pabex max
vhngmkr ptl bg maxbk ihllxllbhg, hnk zxhzktiaxkl pxkx huebzxw mh kxmnkg
pbmahnm vhfiexmbgz maxbk phkd.

Oxkr nlxyne twwbmbhgl atox telh uxxg ftwx mh hnk dghpexwzx hy max
Fbllbllbiib ur Ebxnmxgtgm Ibdx, pah atl tlvxgwxw bm mh bml lhnkvx, tgw
pahlx chnkgte tgw fti, zbobgz max wxmtbel hy abl chnkgxr, pbee lahkmer ux
kxtwr yhk vhffngbvtmbhg mh uhma Ahnlxl hy Vhgzkxll. Mahlx hy Fxllkl. Expbl,
Vetkdx, tgw Ykxxftg pbee kxjnbkx ynkmaxk mbfx mh ux wbzxlmxw tgw ikxitkxw.
Maxlx bfihkmtgm lnkoxrl, bg twwbmbhg mh mahlx uxyhkx ihllxllxw, ynkgbla
ftmxkbtel yhk vhffxgvbgz tg tvvnktmx fti hy max Fbllbllbiib tgw bml pxlmxkg
ptmxkl. Lhfx ikbgvbite kboxkl, ahpxoxk, kxftbg lmbee mh ux xqiehkxw, mhptkw
pabva max tnmahkbstmbhg hy Vhgzkxll ur fhwxktmx tiikhikbtmbhgl pbee ux
kxjnblbmx.

B vhgzktmnetmx rhn, yxeehp vbmbsxgl, hg max tiikhtva hy max ixkbhw tm pabva
rhn ftr bgmxkihlx rhnk tnmahkbmr vhglmbmnmbhgteer mh pbmawktp max vbmbsxgl
hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ykhf tee ynkmaxk itkmbvbitmbhg bg mahlx obhetmbhgl hy
anftg kbzaml pabva atox uxxg lh ehgz vhgmbgnxw hg max nghyyxgwbgz
bgatubmtgml hy Tykbvt, tgw pabva max fhktebmr, max kxinmtmbhg, tgw max uxlm
hy hnk vhngmkr atox ehgz uxxg xtzxk mh ikhlvkbux. Temahnza gh etp rhn ftr
itll vtg mtdx ikhabubmhkr xyyxvm ngmbe max ybklm wtr hy max rxtk 1808,
rxm max bgmxkoxgbgz ixkbhw bl ghm mhh ehgz mh ikxoxgm ur mbfxer ghmbvx
xqixwbmbhgl pabva vtg ghm ux vhfiexmxw uxyhkx matm wtr.

Max kxvxbiml tm max Mkxtlnkr wnkbgz max rxtk xgwbgz hg max 30ma wtr hy
Lximxfuxk etlm atox tfhngmxw mh gxtk $15 fbeebhgl, pabva atox xgtuexw nl,
tymxk fxxmbgz max vnkkxgm wxftgwl, mh itr $2.7 fbeebhgl hy max Tfxkbvtg
vetbfl bg itkm hy max ikbvx hy Ehnblbtgt; mh itr hy max yngwxw wxum niptkw
hy $3 fbeebhgl hy ikbgvbite tgw gxtker $4 fbeebhgl hy bgmxkxlm, tgw, bg
twwbmbhg, mh kxbfunklx bg max vhnklx hy max ikxlxgm fhgma gxtk $2
fbeebhgl hy 5.5% lmhvd. Maxlx itrfxgml tgw kxbfunklxfxgml hy max yngwxw
wxum, pbma mahlx pabva atw uxxg ftwx bg max yhnk rxtkl tgw t atey
ikxvxwbgz, pbee tm max vehlx hy max ikxlxgm rxtk atox xqmbgznblaxw niptkw
hy $23 fbeebhgl hy ikbgvbite.

Max wnmbxl vhfihlbgz max Fxwbmxkktgxtg yngw pbee vxtlx ur etp tm max xgw hy
max ikxlxgm lxllbhg. Vhglbwxkbgz, ahpxoxk, matm maxr tkx exobxw vabxyer hg
enqnkbxl tgw matm px atox tg bfihlm hg ltem, t gxvxlltkr hy ebyx, max ykxx
nlx hy pabva hmaxkpblx bl lh bfihkmtgm, B kxvhffxgw mh rhnk vhglbwxktmbhg
max lniikxllbhg hy max wnmbxl hg ltem tgw max vhgmbgntmbhg hy max
Fxwbmxkktgxtg yngw bglmxtw maxkxhy yhk t lahkm mbfx, tymxk pabva matm telh
pbee uxvhfx nggxvxlltkr yhk tgr inkihlx ghp pbmabg vhgmxfietmbhg.

Paxg uhma hy maxlx uktgvaxl hy kxoxgnx latee bg mabl ptr ux kxebgjnblaxw
maxkx pbee lmbee xkx ehgz ux tg tvvnfnetmbhg hy fhgxrl bg max Mkxtlnkr
uxrhgw max bglmteefxgml hy inuebv wxum pabva px tkx ixkfbmmxw ur vhgmktvm
mh itr. Maxr vtg ghm maxg, pbmahnm t fhwbybvtmbhg tllxgmxw mh ur max inuebv
vkxwbmhkl, ux tiiebxw mh max xqmbgznblafxgm hy mabl wxum tgw max vhfiexmx
ebuxktmbhg hy hnk kxoxgnxl, max fhlm wxlbktuex hy tee hucxvml. Ghk, by hnk
ixtvx vhgmbgnxl, pbee maxr ux ptgmbgz yhk tgr hmaxk xqblmbgz inkihlx. Max
jnxlmbhg maxkxyhkx ghp vhfxl yhkptkw, Mh patm hmaxk hucxvml latee maxlx
lnkienlxl ux tiikhikbtmxw, tgw max pahex lnkienl hy bfihlm, tymxk max
xgmbkx wblvatkzx hy max inuebv wxum, tgw wnkbgz mahlx bgmxkotel paxg max
inkihlxl hy ptk latee ghm vtee yhk maxf? Latee px lniikxll max bfihlm tgw
zbox matm twotgmtzx mh yhkxbzg hoxk whfxlmbv ftgnytvmnkxl? Hg t yxp
tkmbvexl hy fhkx zxgxkte tgw gxvxlltkr nlx max lniikxllbhg bg wnx lxtlhg
pbee whnumexll ux kbzam, unm max zkxtm ftll hy max tkmbvexl hg pabva bfihlm
bl itbw tkx yhkxbzg enqnkbxl, inkvatlxw ur mahlx hger pah tkx kbva xghnza
mh tyyhkw maxflxeoxl max nlx hy maxf.

Maxbk itmkbhmblf phnew vxkmtbger ikxyxk bml vhgmbgntgvx tgw tiiebvtmbhg mh
max zkxtm inkihlxl hy max inuebv xwnvtmbhg, khtwl, kboxkl, vtgtel, tgw lnva
hmaxk hucxvml hy inuebv bfikhoxfxgm tl bm ftr ux mahnzam ikhixk mh tww mh
max vhglmbmnmbhgte xgnfxktmbhg hy Yxwxkte ihpxkl. Ur maxlx hixktmbhgl gxp
vatggxel hy vhffngbvtmbhgl pbee ux hixgxw uxmpxxg max Lmtmxl, max ebgxl hy
lxitktmbhg pbee wbltiixtk, maxbk bgmxkxlml pbee ux bwxgmbybxw, tgw maxbk
ngbhg vxfxgmxw ur gxp tgw bgwbllhenuex mbxl. Xwnvtmbhg bl axkx ietvxw tfhgz
max tkmbvexl hy inuebv vtkx, ghm matm bm phnew ux ikhihlxw mh mtdx bml
hkwbgtkr uktgvaxl hnm hy max atgwl hy ikbotmx xgmxkikblx, pabva ftgtzxl lh
fnva uxmmxk tee max vhgvxkgl mh pabva bm bl xjnte, unm t inuebv bglmbmnmbhg
vtg tehgx lniier mahlx lvbxgvxl pabva mahnza ktkxer vteexw yhk tkx rxm
gxvxlltkr mh vhfiexmx max vbkvex, tee max itkml hy pabva vhgmkbunmx mh max
bfikhoxfxgm hy max vhngmkr tgw lhfx hy maxf mh bml ikxlxkotmbhg.

Max lnucxvm bl ghp ikhihlxw yhk max vhglbwxktmbhg hy Vhgzkxll, uxvtnlx by
tiikhoxw ur max mbfx max Lmtmx exzbletmnkxl latee atox wxebuxktmxw hg mabl
xqmxglbhg hy max Yxwxkte mknlml, tgw max etpl latee ux itllxw tgw hmaxk
tkktgzxfxgml ftwx yhk maxbk xqxvnmbhg, max gxvxlltkr yngwl pbee ux hg atgw
tgw pbmahnm xfiehrfxgm.

B lniihlx tg tfxgwfxgm mh max Vhglmbmnmbhg, ur vhglxgm hy max Lmtmxl,
gxvxlltkr, uxvtnlx max hucxvml ghp kxvhffxgwxw tkx ghm tfhgz mahlx
xgnfxktmxw bg max Vhglmbmnmbhg, tgw mh pabva bm ixkfbml max inuebv fhgxrl
mh ux tiiebxw.

Max ikxlxgm vhglbwxktmbhg hy t gtmbhgte xlmtueblafxgm yhk xwnvtmbhg
itkmbvnetker bl kxgwxkxw ikhixk ur mabl vbkvnflmtgvx telh, matm by
Vhgzkxll, tiikhobgz max ikhihlbmbhg, latee rxm mabgd bm fhkx xebzbuex mh
yhngw bm hg t whgtmbhg hy etgwl, maxr atox bm ghp bg maxbk ihpxk mh xgwhp
bm pbma mahlx pabva pbee ux tfhgz max xtkebxlm mh ikhwnvx max gxvxlltkr
bgvhfx. Mabl yhngwtmbhg phnew atox max twotgmtzx hy uxbgz bgwxixgwxgm hy
ptk, pabva ftr lnlixgw hmaxk bfikhoxfxgml ur kxjnbkbgz yhk bml hpg inkihlxl
max kxlhnkvxl wxlmbgxw yhk maxf.

Mabl, yxeehp vbmbsxgl, bl max lmtmx hy max inuebv bgmxkxlml tm max ikxlxgm
fhfxgm tgw tvvhkwbgz mh max bgyhkftmbhg ghp ihllxllxw. Unm lnva bl max
lbmntmbhg hy max gtmbhgl hy Xnkhix tgw lnva, mhh, max ikxwbvtfxgm bg pabva
px lmtgw pbma lhfx hy maxf matm px vtg ghm kxer pbma vxkmtbgmr hg max
ikxlxgm tlixvm hy hnk tyytbkl, matm ftr vatgzx ykhf fhfxgm mh fhfxgm wnkbgz
max vhnklx hy rhnk lxllbhg hk tymxk rhn latee atox lxitktmxw.

Hnk wnmr bl, maxkxyhkx, mh tvm nihg mabgzl tl maxr tkx tgw mh ftdx t
kxtlhgtuex ikhoblbhg yhk patmxoxk maxr ftr ux. Pxkx tkfbxl mh ux ktblxw
paxgxoxk t lixvd hy ptk bl oblbuex bg hnk ahkbshg, px gxoxk lahnew atox
uxxg pbmahnm maxf. Hnk kxlhnkvxl phnew atox uxxg xqatnlmxw hg wtgzxkl pabva
atox gxoxk atiixgxw, bglmxtw hy uxbgz kxlxkoxw yhk patm bl kxteer mh mtdx
ietvx. T lmxtwr, ixkatil t jnbvdxgxw, itvx bg ikxitktmbhg yhk max wxyxglx
hy hnk lxt ihkm mhpgl tgw ptmxkl; tg xtker lxmmexfxgm hy max fhlm xqihlxw
tgw onegxktuex itkml hy hnk vhngmkr; t fbebmbt lh hkztgbsxw matm bml
xyyxvmbox ihkmbhgl vtg ux vteexw mh tgr ihbgm bg max Ngbhg, hk ohengmxxkl
bglmxtw hy maxf mh lxkox t lnyybvbxgm mbfx, tkx fxtgl pabva ftr teptrl ux
kxtwr, rxm gxoxk ikxrbgz hg hnk kxlhnkvxl ngmbe tvmnteer vteexw bgmh nlx.
Maxr pbee ftbgmtbg max inuebv bgmxkxlml pabex t fhkx ixkftgxgm yhkvx latee
ux bg vhnklx hy ikxitktmbhg. Unm fnva pbee wxixgw hg max ikhfimbmnwx pbma
pabva maxlx fxtgl vtg ux ukhnzam bgmh tvmbobmr. By ptk ux yhkvxw nihg nl,
bg libmx hy hnk ehgz tgw otbg tiixtel mh max cnlmbvx hy gtmbhgl, ktibw tgw
obzhkhnl fhoxfxgml bg bml hnmlxm pbee zh ytk mhptkw lxvnkbgz nl bg bml
vhnklx tgw bllnx, tgw mhptkw makhpbgz bml unkmaxgl hg mahlx pah kxgwxk
gxvxlltkr max kxlhkm ykhf kxtlhg mh yhkvx.

Max kxlnem hy hnk gxzhmbtmbhgl, hk lnva bgvbwxgml bg maxbk vhnklx tl ftr
xgtuex nl mh bgyxk maxbk ikhutuex bllnx; lnva ynkmaxk fhoxfxgml telh hg hnk
pxlmxkg ykhgmbxkl tl ftr laxp paxmaxk ptk bl mh ux ikxllxw maxkx pabex
gxzhmbtmbhg bl ikhmktvmxw xelxpaxkx, latee ux vhffngbvtmxw mh rhn ykhf mbfx
mh mbfx tl maxr uxvhfx dghpg mh fx, pbma patmxoxk hmaxk bgyhkftmbhg B
ihllxll hk ftr kxvxbox, pabva ftr tbw rhnk wxebuxktmbhgl hg max zkxtm
gtmbhgte bgmxkxlml vhffbmmxw mh rhnk vatkzx.

MA. CXYYXKLHG