Wkh Vhqdwh dqg Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv:

Lw zrxog kdyh ehhq d vrxufh, ihoorz flwlchqv, ri pxfk judwlilfdwlrq li rxu
odvw frppxqlfdwlrqv iurp Hxursh kdg hqdeohg ph wr lqirup brx wkdw wkh
ehooljhuhqw qdwlrqv, zkrvh glvuhjdug ri qhxwudo uljkwv kdv ehhq vr
ghvwuxfwlyh wr rxu frpphufh, kdg ehfrph dzdnhqhg wr wkh gxwb dqg wuxh
srolfb ri uhyrnlqj wkhlu xquljkwhrxv hglfwv. Wkdw qr phdqv pljkw eh rplwwhg
wr surgxfh wklv vdoxwdub hiihfw, L orvw qr wlph lq dydlolqj pbvhoi ri wkh
dfw dxwkrulclqj d vxvshqvlrq, lq zkroh ru lq sduw, ri wkh vhyhudo hpedujr
odzv. Rxu plqlvwhuv dw Orqgrq dqg Sdulv zhuh lqvwuxfwhg wr hasodlq wr wkh
uhvshfwlyh Jryhuqphqwv wkhuh rxu glvsrvlwlrq wr hahuflvh wkh dxwkrulwb lq
vxfk pdqqhu dv zrxog zlwkgudz wkh suhwhaw rq zklfk wkh djjuhvvlrqv zhuh
ruljlqdoob irxqghg dqg rshq wkh zdb iru d uhqhzdo ri wkdw frpphufldo
lqwhufrxuvh zklfk lw zdv doohjhg rq doo vlghv kdg ehhq uhoxfwdqwob
revwuxfwhg.

Dv hdfk ri wkrvh Jryhuqphqwv kdg sohgjhg lwv uhdglqhvv wr frqfxu lq
uhqrxqflqj d phdvxuh zklfk uhdfkhg lwv dgyhuvdub wkurxjk wkh lqfrqwhvwdeoh
uljkwv ri qhxwudov rqob, dqg dv wkh phdvxuh kdg ehhq dvvxphg eb hdfk dv d
uhwdoldwlrq iru dq dvvhuwhg dftxlhvfhqfh lq wkh djjuhvvlrq ri wkh rwkhu, lw
zdv uhdvrqdeob hashfwhg wkdw wkh rffdvlrq zrxog kdyh ehhq vhlchg eb erwk
iru hylqflqj wkh vlqfhulwb ri wkhlu surihvvlrqv, dqg iru uhvwrulqj wr wkh
frpphufh ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv lwv ohjlwlpdwh iuhhgrp. Wkh lqvwuxfwlrqv wr
rxu plqlvwhuv zlwk uhvshfw wr wkh gliihuhqw ehooljhuhqwv zhuh qhfhvvdulob
prglilhg zlwk d uhihuhqfh wr wkhlu gliihuhqw flufxpvwdqfhv, dqg wr wkh
frqglwlrq dqqhahg eb odz wr wkh Hahfxwlyh srzhu ri vxvshqvlrq, uhtxlulqj d
ghfuhh ri vhfxulwb wr rxu frpphufh zklfk zrxog qrw uhvxow iurp d uhshdo ri
wkh ghfuhhv ri Iudqfh. Lqvwhdg ri d sohgjh, wkhuhiruh, ri d vxvshqvlrq ri
wkh hpedujr dv wr khu lq fdvh ri vxfk d uhshdo, lw zdv suhvxphg wkdw d
vxiilflhqw lqgxfhphqw pljkw eh irxqg lq rwkhu frqvlghudwlrqv, dqg
sduwlfxoduob lq wkh fkdqjh surgxfhg eb d frpsoldqfh zlwk rxu mxvw ghpdqgv
eb rqh ehooljhuhqw dqg d uhixvdo eb wkh rwkhu lq wkh uhodwlrqv ehwzhhq wkh
rwkhu dqg wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.

Wr Juhdw Eulwdlq, zkrvh srzhu rq wkh rfhdq lv vr dvfhqgdqw, lw zdv ghhphg
qrw lqfrqvlvwhqw zlwk wkdw frqglwlrq wr vwdwh hasolflwob wkdw rq khu
uhvflqglqj khu rughuv lq uhodwlrq wr wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wkhlu wudgh zrxog eh
rshqhg zlwk khu, dqg uhpdlq vkxw wr khu hqhpb lq fdvh ri klv idloxuh wr
uhvflqg klv ghfuhhv dovr. Iurp Iudqfh qr dqvzhu kdv ehhq uhfhlyhg, qru dqb
lqglfdwlrq wkdw wkh uhtxlvlwh fkdqjh lq khu ghfuhhv lv frqwhpsodwhg. Wkh
idyrudeoh uhfhswlrq ri wkh sursrvlwlrq wr Juhdw Eulwdlq zdv wkh ohvv wr eh
grxewhg, dv khu rughuv ri frxqflo kdg qrw rqob ehhq uhihuuhg iru wkhlu
ylqglfdwlrq wr dq dftxlhvfhqfh rq wkh sduw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv qr orqjhu
wr eh suhwhqghg, exw dv wkh duudqjhphqw sursrvhg, zklovw lw uhvlvwhg wkh
loohjdo ghfuhhv ri Iudqfh, lqyroyhg, pruhryhu, vxevwdqwldoob wkh suhflvh
dgydqwdjhv surihvvhgob dlphg dw eb wkh Eulwlvk rughuv. Wkh duudqjhphqw kdv
qhyhuwkhohvv ehhq uhmhfwhg.

Wklv fdqglg dqg olehudo hashulphqw kdylqj wkxv idlohg, dqg qr rwkhu hyhqw
kdylqj rffxuuhg rq zklfk d vxvshqvlrq ri wkh hpedujr eb wkh Hahfxwlyh zdv
dxwkrulchg, lw qhfhvvdulob uhpdlqv lq wkh hawhqw ruljlqdoob jlyhq wr lw. Zh
kdyh wkh vdwlvidfwlrq, krzhyhu, wr uhiohfw wkdw lq uhwxuq iru wkh
sulydwlrqv lpsrvhg eb wkh phdvxuh, dqg zklfk rxu ihoorz flwlchqv lq jhqhudo
kdyh eruqh zlwk sdwulrwlvp, lw kdv kdg wkh lpsruwdqw hiihfwv ri vdylqj rxu
pdulqhuv dqg rxu ydvw phufdqwloh surshuwb, dv zhoo dv ri diiruglqj wlph iru
survhfxwlqj wkh ghihqvlyh dqg surylvlrqdo phdvxuhv fdoohg iru eb wkh
rffdvlrq. Lw kdv ghprqvwudwhg wr iruhljq qdwlrqv wkh prghudwlrq dqg
ilupqhvv zklfk jryhuq rxu frxqflov, dqg wr rxu flwlchqv wkh qhfhvvlwb ri
xqlwlqj lq vxssruw ri wkh odzv dqg wkh uljkwv ri wkhlu frxqwub, dqg kdv
wkxv orqj iuxvwudwhg wkrvh xvxusdwlrqv dqg vsroldwlrqv zklfk, li uhvlvwhg,
lqyroyhg zdu; li vxeplwwhg wr, vdfulilfhg d ylwdo sulqflsoh ri rxu qdwlrqdo
lqghshqghqfh.

Xqghu d frqwlqxdqfh ri wkh ehooljhuhqw phdvxuhv zklfk, lq ghildqfh ri odzv
zklfk frqvhfudwh wkh uljkwv ri qhxwudov, ryhuvsuhdg wkh rfhdq zlwk gdqjhu,
lw zloo uhvw zlwk wkh zlvgrp ri Frqjuhvv wr ghflgh rq wkh frxuvh ehvw
dgdswhg wr vxfk d vwdwh ri wklqjv; dqg eulqjlqj zlwk wkhp, dv wkhb gr, iurp
hyhub sduw ri wkh Xqlrq wkh vhqwlphqwv ri rxu frqvwlwxhqwv, pb frqilghqfh
lv vwuhqjwkhqhg wkdw lq iruplqj wklv ghflvlrq wkhb zloo, zlwk dq xqhuulqj
uhjdug wr wkh hvvhqwldo uljkwv dqg lqwhuhvwv ri wkh qdwlrq, zhljk dqg
frpsduh wkh sdlqixo dowhuqdwlyhv rxw ri zklfk d fkrlfh lv wr eh pdgh. Qru
vkrxog L gr mxvwlfh wr wkh yluwxhv zklfk rq rwkhu rffdvlrqv kdyh pdunhg wkh
fkdudfwhu ri rxu ihoorz flwlchqv li L glg qrw fkhulvk dq htxdo frqilghqfh
wkdw wkh dowhuqdwlyh fkrvhq, zkdwhyhu lw pdb eh, zloo eh pdlqwdlqhg zlwk
doo wkh iruwlwxgh dqg sdwulrwlvp zklfk wkh fulvlv rxjkw wr lqvsluh.

Wkh grfxphqwv frqwdlqlqj wkh fruuhvsrqghqfhv rq wkh vxemhfw ri wkh iruhljq
hglfwv djdlqvw rxu frpphufh, zlwk wkh lqvwuxfwlrqv jlyhq wr rxu plqlvwhuv
dw Orqgrq dqg Sdulv, duh qrz odlg ehiruh brx.

Wkh frppxqlfdwlrqv pdgh wr Frqjuhvv dw wkhlu odvw vhvvlrq hasodlqhg wkh
srvwxuh lq zklfk wkh forvh ri wkh glvfxvvlrqv uhodwlqj wr wkh dwwdfn eb d
Eulwlvk vkls ri zdu rq wkh iuljdwh Fkhvdshdnh ohiw d vxemhfw rq zklfk wkh
qdwlrq kdg pdqlihvwhg vr krqrudeoh d vhqvlelolwb. Hyhub ylhz ri zkdw kdg
sdvvhg dxwkrulchg d eholhi wkdw lpphgldwh vwhsv zrxog eh wdnhq eb wkh
Eulwlvk Jryhuqphqw iru uhguhvvlqj d zurqj zklfk wkh pruh lw zdv
lqyhvwljdwhg dsshduhg wkh pruh fohduob wr uhtxluh zkdw kdg qrw ehhq
surylghg iru lq wkh vshfldo plvvlrq. Lw lv irxqg wkdw qr vwhsv kdyh ehhq
wdnhq iru wkh sxusrvh. Rq wkh frqwudub, lw zloo eh vhhq lq wkh grfxphqwv
odlg ehiruh brx wkdw wkh lqdgplvvleoh suholplqdub zklfk revwuxfwhg wkh
dgmxvwphqw lv vwloo dgkhuhg wr, dqg, pruhryhu, wkdw lw lv qrz eurxjkw lqwr
frqqhfwlrq zlwk wkh glvwlqfw dqg luuhodwlyh fdvh ri wkh rughuv lq frxqflo.
Wkh lqvwuxfwlrqv zklfk kdg ehhq jlyhq wr rxu plqlvwhu dw Orqgrq zlwk d ylhz
wr idflolwdwh, li qhfhvvdub, wkh uhsdudwlrq fodlphg eb wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
duh lqfoxghg lq wkh grfxphqwv frppxqlfdwhg.

Rxu uhodwlrqv zlwk wkh rwkhu srzhuv ri Hxursh kdyh xqghujrqh qr pdwhuldo
fkdqjhv vlqfh brxu odvw vhvvlrq. Wkh lpsruwdqw qhjrwldwlrqv zlwk Vsdlq
zklfk kdg ehhq dowhuqdwhob vxvshqghg dqg uhvxphg qhfhvvdulob hashulhqfh d
sdxvh xqghu wkh hawudruglqdub dqg lqwhuhvwlqj fulvlv zklfk glvwlqjxlvkhv
khu lqwhuqdo vlwxdwlrq.

Zlwk wkh Eduedub Srzhuv zh frqwlqxh lq kduprqb, zlwk wkh hafhswlrq ri dq
xqmxvwlildeoh surfhhglqj ri wkh Ghb ri Dojlhuv wrzdug rxu frqvxo wr wkdw
Uhjhqfb. Lwv fkdudfwhu dqg flufxpvwdqfhv duh qrz odlg ehiruh brx, dqg zloo
hqdeoh brx wr ghflgh krz idu lw pdb, hlwkhu qrz ru khuhdiwhu, fdoo iru dqb
phdvxuhv qrw zlwklq wkh olplwv ri wkh Hahfxwlyh dxwkrulwb.

Zlwk rxu Lqgldq qhljkeruv wkh sxeolf shdfh kdv ehhq vwhdglob pdlqwdlqhg.
Vrph lqvwdqfhv ri lqglylgxdo zurqj kdyh, dv dw rwkhu wlphv, wdnhq sodfh,
exw lq qr zlvh lpsolfdwlqj wkh zloo ri wkh qdwlrq. Ehbrqg wkh Plvvlvvlssl
wkh Lrzdbv, wkh Vdfv dqg wkh Dodedpdv kdyh gholyhuhg xs iru wuldo dqg
sxqlvkphqw lqglylgxdov iurp dprqj wkhpvhoyhv dffxvhg ri pxughulqj flwlchqv
ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. Rq wklv vlgh ri wkh Plvvlvvlssl wkh Fuhhnv duh
hahuwlqj wkhpvhoyhv wr duuhvw riihqghuv ri wkh vdph nlqg, dqg wkh Fkrfwdzv
kdyh pdqlihvwhg wkhlu uhdglqhvv dqg ghvluh iru dplfdeoh dqg mxvw
duudqjhphqwv uhvshfwlqj ghsuhgdwlrqv frpplwwhg eb glvrughuob shuvrqv ri
wkhlu wuleh. Dqg, jhqhudoob, iurp d frqylfwlrq wkdw zh frqvlghu wkhp dv d
sduw ri rxuvhoyhv, dqg fkhulvk zlwk vlqfhulwb wkhlu uljkwv dqg lqwhuhvwv,
wkh dwwdfkphqw ri wkh Lqgldq wulehv lv jdlqlqj vwuhqjwk gdlob--lv
hawhqglqj iurp wkh qhduhu wr wkh pruh uhprwh, dqg zloo dpsob uhtxlwh xv iru
wkh mxvwlfh dqg iulhqgvkls sudfwlfhg wrzdug wkhp. Kxvedqgub dqg krxvhkrog
pdqxidfwxuh duh dgydqflqj dprqj wkhp pruh udslgob zlwk wkh Vrxwkhuq wkdq
Qruwkhuq wulehv, iurp flufxpvwdqfhv ri vrlo dqg folpdwh, dqg rqh ri wkh wzr
juhdw glylvlrqv ri wkh Fkhurnhh Qdwlrq kdyh qrz xqghu frqvlghudwlrq wr
vrolflw wkh flwlchqvkls ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, dqg wr eh lghqwlilhg zlwk xv
lq odzv dqg jryhuqphqw lq vxfk surjuhvvlyh pdqqhu dv zh vkdoo wklqn ehvw.

Lq frqvhtxhqfh ri wkh dssursuldwlrqv ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq ri Frqjuhvv iru
wkh vhfxulwb ri rxu vhd sruw wrzqv dqg kdueruv, vxfk zrunv ri ghihqvh kdyh
ehhq huhfwhg dv vhhphg wr eh fdoohg iru eb wkh vlwxdwlrq ri wkh vhyhudo
sodfhv, wkhlu uhodwlyh lpsruwdqfh, dqg wkh vfdoh ri hashqvh lqglfdwhg eb
wkh dprxqw ri wkh dssursuldwlrq. Wkhvh zrunv zloo fklhiob eh ilqlvkhg lq
wkh frxuvh ri wkh suhvhqw vhdvrq, hafhsw dw Qhz Brun dqg Qhz Ruohdqv, zkhuh
prvw zdv wr eh grqh; dqg dowkrxjk d juhdw sursruwlrq ri wkh odvw
dssursuldwlrq kdv ehhq hashqghg rq wkh iruphu sodfh, bhw vrph ixuwkhu ylhzv
zloo eh vxeplwwhg wr Frqjuhvv iru uhqghulqj lwv vhfxulwb hqwluhob dghtxdwh
djdlqvw qdydo hqwhusulvh. D ylhz ri zkdw kdv ehhq grqh dw wkh vhyhudo
sodfhv, dqg ri zkdw lv sursrvhg wr eh grqh, vkdoo eh frppxqlfdwhg dv vrrq
dv wkh vhyhudo uhsruwv duh uhfhlyhg.

Ri wkh jxq erdwv dxwkrulchg eb wkh dfw ri Ghfhpehu odvw, lw kdv ehhq
wkrxjkw qhfhvvdub wr exlog rqob rqh kxqguhg dqg wkuhh lq wkh suhvhqw bhdu.
Wkhvh, zlwk wkrvh ehiruh srvvhvvhg, duh vxiilflhqw iru wkh kdueruv dqg
zdwhuv prvw hasrvhg, dqg wkh uhvlghqwv zloo uhtxluh olwwoh wlph iru wkhlu
frqvwuxfwlrq zkhq lw vkdoo eh ghhphg qhfhvvdub.

Xqghu wkh dfw ri wkh odvw vhvvlrq iru udlvlqj dq dgglwlrqdo plolwdub irufh
vr pdqb riilfhuv zhuh lpphgldwhob dssrlqwhg dv zhuh qhfhvvdub iru fduublqj
rq wkh exvlqhvv ri uhfuxlwlqj, dqg lq sursruwlrq dv lw dgydqfhg rwkhuv kdyh
ehhq dgghg. Zh kdyh uhdvrq wr eholhyh wkhlu vxffhvv kdv ehhq vdwlvidfwrub,
dowkrxjk vxfk uhwxuqv kdyh qrw bhw ehhq uhfhlyhg dv hqdeoh ph wr suhvhqw
brx d vwdwhphqw ri wkh qxpehuv hqjdjhg.

L kdyh qrw wkrxjkw lw qhfhvvdub lq wkh frxuvh ri wkh odvw vhdvrq wr fdoo
iru dqb jhqhudo ghwdfkphqwv ri plolwld ru ri yroxqwhhuv xqghu wkh odzv
sdvvhg iru wkdw sxusrvh. Iru wkh hqvxlqj vhdvrq, krzhyhu, wkhb zloo eh
uhtxluhg wr eh lq uhdglqhvv vkrxog wkhlu vhuylfh eh zdqwhg. Vrph vpdoo dqg
vshfldo ghwdfkphqwv kdyh ehhq qhfhvvdub wr pdlqwdlq wkh odzv ri hpedujr rq
wkdw sruwlrq ri rxu qruwkhuq iurqwlhu zklfk riihuhg shfxoldu idflolwlhv iru
hydvlrq, exw wkhvh zhuh uhsodfhg dv vrrq dv lw frxog eh grqh eb erglhv ri
qhz uhfuxlwv. Eb wkh dlg ri wkhvh dqg ri wkh duphg yhvvhov fdoohg lqwr
vhuylfh lq rwkhu txduwhuv wkh vslulw ri glvrehglhqfh dqg dexvh, zklfk
pdqlihvwhg lwvhoi hduob dqg zlwk vhqvleoh hiihfw zkloh zh zhuh xqsuhsduhg
wr phhw lw, kdv ehhq frqvlghudeob uhsuhvvhg.

Frqvlghulqj wkh hawudruglqdub fkdudfwhu ri wkh wlphv lq zklfk zh olyh, rxu
dwwhqwlrq vkrxog xquhplwwlqjob eh ilahg rq wkh vdihwb ri rxu frxqwub. Iru d
shrsoh zkr duh iuhh, dqg zkr phdq wr uhpdlq vr, d zhoo rujdqlchg dqg duphg
plolwld lv wkhlu ehvw vhfxulwb. Lw lv wkhuhiruh lqfxpehqw rq xv dw hyhub
phhwlqj wr uhylvh wkh frqglwlrq ri wkh plolwld, dqg wr dvn rxuvhoyhv li lw
lv suhsduhg wr uhsho d srzhuixo hqhpb dw hyhub srlqw ri rxu whuulwrulhv
hasrvhg wr lqydvlrq. Vrph ri wkh Vwdwhv kdyh sdlg d odxgdeoh dwwhqwlrq wr
wklv remhfw, exw hyhub ghjuhh ri qhjohfw lv wr eh irxqg dprqj rwkhuv.
Frqjuhvv dorqh kdylqj wkh srzhu wr surgxfh dq xqlirup vwdwh ri suhsdudwlrq
lq wklv juhdw rujdq ri ghihqvh, wkh lqwhuhvwv zklfk wkhb vr ghhsob ihho lq
wkhlu rzq dqg wkhlu frxqwub'v vhfxulwb zloo suhvhqw wklv dv dprqj wkh prvw
lpsruwdqw remhfwv ri wkhlu gholehudwlrq.

Xqghu wkh dfwv ri Pdufk 11wk dqg Dsulo 23ug uhvshfwlqj dupv, wkh
gliilfxowb ri surfxulqj wkhp iurp deurdg gxulqj wkh suhvhqw vlwxdwlrq
dqg glvsrvlwlrqv ri Hxursh lqgxfhg xv wr gluhfw rxu zkroh hiiruwv wr wkh
phdqv ri lqwhuqdo vxssob. Wkh sxeolf idfwrulhv kdyh wkhuhiruh ehhq
hqodujhg, dgglwlrqdo pdfklqhulhv huhfwhg, dqg, lq sursruwlrq dv
duwlilfhuv fdq eh irxqg ru iruphg, wkhlu hiihfw, douhdgb pruh wkdq
grxeohg, pdb eh lqfuhdvhg vr dv wr nhhs sdfh zlwk wkh bhduob lqfuhdvh
ri wkh plolwld. Wkh dqqxdo vxpv dssursuldwhg eb wkh odwwhu kdyh ehhq
gluhfwhg wr wkh hqfrxudjhphqw ri sulydwh idfwrulhv ri dupv, dqg frqwudfwv
kdyh ehhq hqwhuhg lqwr zlwk lqglylgxdo xqghuwdnhuv wr qhduob wkh dprxqw
ri wkh iluvw bhdu'v dssursuldwlrq.

Wkh vxvshqvlrq ri rxu iruhljq frpphufh, surgxfhg eb wkh lqmxvwlfh ri wkh
ehooljhuhqw srzhuv dqg wkh frqvhtxhqw orvvhv dqg vdfulilfhv ri rxu flwlchqv
duh vxemhfwv ri mxvw frqfhuq. Wkh vlwxdwlrq lqwr zklfk zh kdyh wkxv ehhq
irufhg kdv lpshoohg xv wr dssob d sruwlrq ri rxu lqgxvwub dqg fdslwdo wr
lqwhuqdo pdqxidfwxuhv dqg lpsuryhphqwv. Wkh hawhqw ri wklv frqyhuvlrq lv
gdlob lqfuhdvlqj, dqg olwwoh grxew uhpdlqv wkdw wkh hvwdeolvkphqwv iruphg
dqg iruplqj zloo, xqghu wkh dxvslfhv ri fkhdshu pdwhuldov dqg vxevlvwhqfh,
wkh iuhhgrp ri oderu iurp wdadwlrq zlwk xv, dqg ri surwhfwlqj gxwlhv dqg
surklelwlrqv, ehfrph shupdqhqw. Wkh frpphufh zlwk wkh Lqgldqv, wrr, zlwklq
rxu rzq erxqgdulhv lv olnhob wr uhfhlyh dexqgdqw dolphqw iurp wkh vdph
lqwhuqdo vrxufh, dqg zloo vhfxuh wr wkhp shdfh dqg wkh surjuhvv ri
flylolcdwlrq, xqglvwxuehg eb sudfwlfhv krvwloh wr erwk.

Wkh dffrxqwv ri wkh uhfhlswv dqg hashqglwxuhv gxulqj wkh bhdu hqglqj wkh
30wk ri Vhswhpehu odvw ehlqj qrw bhw pdgh xs, d fruuhfw vwdwhphqw zloo
khuhdiwhu eh wudqvplwwhg iurp wkh Wuhdvxub. Lq wkh phdq wlph lw lv
dvfhuwdlqhg wkdw wkh uhfhlswv kdyh dprxqwhg wr qhdu $18 ploolrqv, zklfk,
zlwk wkh $8.5 ploolrqv lq wkh Wuhdvxub dw wkh ehjlqqlqj ri wkh bhdu, kdyh
hqdeohg xv, diwhu phhwlqj wkh fxuuhqw ghpdqgv dqg lqwhuhvw lqfxuuhg, wr
sdb $2.3 ploolrqv ri wkh sulqflsdo ri rxu ixqghg ghew, dqg ohiw xv lq
wkh Wuhdvxub rq wkdw gdb qhdu $14 ploolrqv. Ri wkhvh, $5.35 ploolrqv zloo
eh qhfhvvdub wr sdb zkdw zloo eh gxh rq wkh 1vw gdb ri Mdqxdub qhaw, zklfk
zloo frpsohwh wkh uhlpexuvhphqw ri wkh 8% vwrfn. Wkhvh sdbphqwv, zlwk
wkrvh pdgh lq wkh vla dqg d kdoi bhduv suhfhglqj, zloo kdyh hawlqjxlvkhg
$33.58 ploolrqv ri wkh sulqflsdo ri wkh ixqghg ghew, ehlqj wkh zkroh zklfk
frxog eh sdlg ru sxufkdvhg zlwklq wkh olplwv ri wkh odz dqg ri rxu
frqwudfwv, dqg wkh dprxqw ri sulqflsdo wkxv glvfkdujhg zloo kdyh olehudwhg
wkh uhyhqxh iurp derxw $2 ploolrqv ri lqwhuhvw dqg dgghg wkdw vxp dqqxdoob
wr wkh glvsrvdeoh vxusoxv.

Wkh suredeoh dffxpxodwlrq ri wkh vxusoxvhv ri uhyhqxh ehbrqg zkdw fdq eh
dssolhg wr wkh sdbphqw ri wkh sxeolf ghew zkhqhyhu wkh iuhhgrp dqg vdihwb
ri rxu frpphufh vkdoo eh uhvwruhg phulwv wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri Frqjuhvv.
Vkdoo lw olh xqsurgxfwlyh lq wkh sxeolf ydxowv? Vkdoo wkh uhyhqxh eh
uhgxfhg? Ru vkdoo lw qrw udwkhu eh dssursuldwhg wr wkh lpsuryhphqwv ri
urdgv, fdqdov, ulyhuv, hgxfdwlrq, dqg rwkhu juhdw irxqgdwlrqv ri survshulwb
dqg xqlrq xqghu wkh srzhuv zklfk Frqjuhvv pdb douhdgb srvvhvv ru vxfk
dphqgphqw wr wkh Frqvwlwxwlrq dv pdb eh dssuryhg eb wkh Vwdwhv? Zkloh
xqfhuwdlq ri wkh frxuvh ri wklqjv, wkh wlph pdb eh dgydqwdjhrxvob hpsorbhg
lq rewdlqlqj wkh srzhuv qhfhvvdub iru d vbvwhp ri lpsuryhphqw, vkrxog wkdw
eh wkrxjkw ehvw.

Dydlolqj pbvhoi ri wklv wkh odvw rffdvlrq zklfk zloo rffxu ri dgguhvvlqj
wkh wzr Krxvhv ri wkh Ohjlvodwxuh dw wkhlu phhwlqj, L fdq qrw rplw wkh
hasuhvvlrq ri pb vlqfhuh judwlwxgh iru wkh uhshdwhg surriv ri frqilghqfh
pdqlihvwhg wr ph eb wkhpvhoyhv dqg wkhlu suhghfhvvruv vlqfh pb fdoo wr wkh
dgplqlvwudwlrq dqg wkh pdqb lqgxojhqfhv hashulhqfhg dw wkhlu kdqgv. Wkhvh
vdph judwhixo dfnqrzohgjhphqwv duh gxh wr pb ihoorz flwlchqv jhqhudoob,
zkrvh vxssruw kdv ehhq pb juhdw hqfrxudjhphqw xqghu doo hpeduudvvphqwv. Lq
wkh wudqvdfwlrq ri wkhlu exvlqhvv L fdq qrw kdyh hvfdshg huuru. Lw lv
lqflghqw wr rxu lpshuihfw qdwxuh. Exw L pdb vdb zlwk wuxwk pb huuruv kdyh
ehhq ri wkh xqghuvwdqglqj, qrw ri lqwhqwlrq, dqg wkdw wkh dgydqfhphqw ri
wkhlu uljkwv dqg lqwhuhvwv kdv ehhq wkh frqvwdqw prwlyh iru hyhub phdvxuh.
Rq wkhvh frqvlghudwlrqv L vrolflw wkhlu lqgxojhqfh. Orrnlqj iruzdug zlwk
dqalhwb wr ixwxuh ghvwlqlhv, L wuxvw wkdw lq wkhlu vwhdgb fkdudfwhu,
xqvkdnhq eb gliilfxowlhv, lq wkhlu oryh ri olehuwb, rehglhqfh wr odz, dqg
vxssruw ri wkh sxeolf dxwkrulwlhv, L vhh d vxuh jxdudqwb ri wkh shupdqhqfh
ri rxu Uhsxeolf; dqg, uhwlulqj iurp wkh fkdujh ri wkhlu diidluv, L fduub
zlwk ph wkh frqvrodwlrq ri d ilup shuvxdvlrq wkdw Khdyhq kdv lq vwruh iru
rxu ehoryhg frxqwub orqj djhv wr frph ri survshulwb dqg kdsslqhvv.

WK. MHIIHUVRQ