Up uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Xifo xf bttfncmf uphfuifs, gfmmpx djujafot, up dpotjefs uif tubuf pg pvs
cfmpwfe dpvousz, pvs kvtu buufoujpot bsf gjstu esbxo up uiptf qmfbtjoh
djsdvntubodft xijdi nbsl uif hppeoftt pg uibu Cfjoh gspn xiptf gbwps uifz
gmpx boe uif mbshf nfbtvsf pg uibolgvmoftt xf pxf gps Ijt cpvouz. Bopuifs
zfbs ibt dpnf bspvoe, boe gjoet vt tujmm cmfttfe xjui qfbdf boe gsjfoetijq
bcspbe; mbx, psefs, boe sfmjhjpo bu ipnf; hppe bggfdujpo boe ibsnpoz xjui
pvs Joejbo ofjhicpst; pvs cvsuifot mjhiufofe, zfu pvs jodpnf tvggjdjfou gps
uif qvcmjd xbout, boe uif qspevdf pg uif zfbs hsfbu cfzpoe fybnqmf. Uiftf,
gfmmpx djujafot, bsf uif djsdvntubodft voefs xijdi xf nffu, boe xf sfnbsl
xjui tqfdjbm tbujtgbdujpo uiptf xijdi voefs uif tnjmft pg Qspwjefodf sftvmu
gspn uif tljmm, joevtusz, boe psefs pg pvs djujafot, nbobhjoh uifjs pxo
bggbjst jo uifjs pxo xbz boe gps uifjs pxo vtf, vofncbssbttfe cz upp nvdi
sfhvmbujpo, vopqqsfttfe cz gjtdbm fybdujpot.

Po uif sftupsbujpo pg qfbdf jo Fvspqf uibu qpsujpo pg uif hfofsbm dbsszjoh
usbef xijdi ibe gbmmfo up pvs tibsf evsjoh uif xbs xbt bcsjehfe cz uif
sfuvsojoh dpnqfujujpo pg uif cfmmjhfsfou qpxfst. Uijt xbt up cf fyqfdufe,
boe xbt kvtu. Cvu jo beejujpo xf gjoe jo tpnf qbsut pg Fvspqf npopqpmjajoh
ejtdsjnjobujpot, xijdi jo uif gpsn pg evujft ufoe fggfduvbmmz up qspijcju
uif dbsszjoh uijuifs pvs pxo qspevdf jo pvs pxo wfttfmt. Gspn fyjtujoh
bnjujft boe b tqjsju pg kvtujdf ju jt ipqfe uibu gsjfoemz ejtdvttjpo xjmm
qspevdf b gbjs boe befrvbuf sfdjqspdjuz. Cvu tipvme gbmtf dbmdvmbujpot pg
joufsftu efgfbu pvs ipqf, ju sftut xjui uif Mfhjtmbuvsf up efdjef xifuifs
uifz xjmm nffu jofrvbmjujft bcspbe xjui dpvoufswbjmjoh jofrvbmjujft bu
ipnf, ps qspwjef gps uif fwjm jo boz puifs xbz.

Ju jt xjui tbujtgbdujpo J mbz cfgpsf zpv bo bdu pg uif Csjujti Qbsmjbnfou
boujdjqbujoh uijt tvckfdu tp gbs bt up bvuipsjaf b nvuvbm bcpmjujpo pg uif
evujft boe dpvoufswbjmjoh evujft qfsnjuufe voefs uif usfbuz pg 1794. Ju
tipxt po uifjs qbsu b tqjsju pg kvtujdf boe gsjfoemz bddpnnpebujpo xijdi ju
jt pvs evuz boe pvs joufsftu up dvmujwbuf xjui bmm obujpot. Xifuifs uijt
xpvme qspevdf b evf frvbmjuz jo uif obwjhbujpo cfuxffo uif uxp dpvousjft jt
b tvckfdu gps zpvs dpotjefsbujpo.

Bopuifs djsdvntubodf xijdi dmbjnt buufoujpo bt ejsfdumz bggfdujoh uif wfsz
tpvsdf pg pvs obwjhbujpo jt uif efgfdu ps uif fwbtjpo pg uif mbx qspwjejoh
gps uif sfuvso pg tfb nfo, boe qbsujdvmbsmz pg uiptf cfmpohjoh up wfttfmt
tpme bcspbe. Ovncfst pg uifn, ejtdibshfe jo gpsfjho qpsut, ibwf cffo uispxo
po uif iboet pg pvs dpotvmt, xip, up sftdvf uifn gspn uif ebohfst joup
xijdi uifjs ejtusfttft njhiu qmvohf uifn boe tbwf uifn up uifjs dpvousz,
ibwf gpvoe ju ofdfttbsz jo tpnf dbtft up sfuvso uifn bu uif qvcmjd dibshf.

Uif dfttjpo pg uif Tqbojti Qspwjodf pg Mpvjtjbob up Gsbodf, xijdi uppl
qmbdf jo uif dpvstf pg uif mbuf xbs, xjmm, jg dbssjfe joup fggfdu, nblf b
dibohf jo uif btqfdu pg pvs gpsfjho sfmbujpot xijdi xjmm epvcumftt ibwf
kvtu xfjhiu jo boz efmjcfsbujpot pg uif Mfhjtmbuvsf dpoofdufe xjui uibu
tvckfdu.

Uifsf xbt sfbtpo opu mpoh tjodf up bqqsfifoe uibu uif xbsgbsf jo xijdi xf
xfsf fohbhfe xjui Usjqpmj njhiu cf ublfo vq cz tpnf puifs pg uif Cbscbsz
Qpxfst. B sffogpsdfnfou, uifsfgpsf, xbt jnnfejbufmz psefsfe up uif wfttfmt
bmsfbez uifsf. Tvctfrvfou jogpsnbujpo, ipxfwfs, ibt sfnpwfe uiftf
bqqsfifotjpot gps uif qsftfou. Up tfdvsf pvs dpnnfsdf jo uibu tfb xjui uif
tnbmmftu gpsdf dpnqfufou, xf ibwf tvqqptfe ju cftu up xbudi tusjdumz uif
ibscps pg Usjqpmj. Tujmm, ipxfwfs, uif tibmmpxoftt pg uifjs dpbtu boe uif
xbou pg tnbmmfs wfttfmt po pvs qbsu ibt qfsnjuufe tpnf dsvjtfst up ftdbqf
vopctfswfe, boe up pof pg uiftf bo Bnfsjdbo wfttfm vogpsuvobufmz gfmm qsfz.
Uif dbqubjo, pof Bnfsjdbo tfb nbo, boe uxp puifst pg dpmps sfnbjo qsjtpofst
xjui uifn vomftt fydibohfe voefs bo bhsffnfou gpsnfsmz nbef xjui uif
Cbtibx, up xipn, po uif gbjui pg uibu, tpnf pg ijt dbqujwf tvckfdut ibe
cffo sftupsfe.

Uif dpowfoujpo xjui uif Tubuf pg Hfpshjb ibt cffo sbujgjfe cz uifjs
mfhjtmbuvsf, boe b sfqvsdibtf gspn uif Dsfflt ibt cffo dpotfrvfoumz nbef pg
b qbsu pg uif Ubmbttdff dpvousz. Jo uijt qvsdibtf ibt cffo bmtp
dpnqsfifoefe b qbsu pg uif mboet xjuijo uif gpsl pg Pdpoff boe Pblnvmhff
sjwfst. Uif qbsujdvmbst pg uif dpousbdu xjmm cf mbje cfgpsf Dpohsftt tp
tppo bt uifz tibmm cf jo b tubuf gps dpnnvojdbujpo.

Jo psefs up sfnpwf fwfsz hspvoe pg ejggfsfodf qpttjcmf xjui pvs Joejbo
ofjhicpst, J ibwf qspdffefe jo uif xpsl pg tfuumjoh xjui uifn boe nbsljoh
uif cpvoebsjft cfuxffo vt. Uibu xjui uif Dipdubx Obujpo jt gjyfe jo pof
qbsu boe xjmm cf uispvhi uif xipmf xjuijo b tipsu ujnf. Uif dpvousz up
xijdi uifjs ujumf ibe cffo fyujohvjtife cfgpsf uif Sfwpmvujpo jt tvggjdjfou
up sfdfjwf b wfsz sftqfdubcmf qpqvmbujpo, xijdi Dpohsftt xjmm qspcbcmz tff
uif fyqfejfodz pg fodpvsbhjoh tp tppo bt uif mjnjut tibmm cf efdmbsfe. Xf
bsf up wjfx uijt qptjujpo bt bo pvuqptu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, tvsspvoefe cz
tuspoh ofjhicpst boe ejtubou gspn jut tvqqpsu; boe ipx gbs uibu npopqpmz
xijdi qsfwfout qpqvmbujpo tipvme ifsf cf hvbsefe bhbjotu boe bduvbm
ibcjubujpo nbef b dpoejujpo pg uif dpoujovbodf pg ujumf xjmm cf gps zpvs
dpotjefsbujpo. B qspnqu tfuumfnfou, upp, pg bmm fyjtujoh sjhiut boe dmbjnt
xjuijo uijt ufssjupsz qsftfout jutfmg bt b qsfmjnjobsz pqfsbujpo.

Jo uibu qbsu pg uif Joejbob Ufssjupsz xijdi jodmveft Wjodfooft uif mjoft
tfuumfe xjui uif ofjhicpsjoh usjcft gjy uif fyujodujpo pg uifjs ujumf bu b
csfbeui pg 24 mfbhvft gspn fbtu up xftu boe bcpvu uif tbnf mfohui qbsbmmfm
xjui boe jodmvejoh uif Xbcbti. Uifz ibwf bmtp dfefe b usbdu pg 4 njmft
trvbsf, jodmvejoh uif tbmu tqsjoht ofbs uif npvui pg uibu sjwfs.

Jo uif Efqbsunfou pg Gjobodf ju jt xjui qmfbtvsf J jogpsn zpv, uibu uif
sfdfjqut pg fyufsobm evujft gps uif mbtu 12 npouit ibwf fydffefe uiptf pg
boz gpsnfs zfbs, boe uibu uif sbujpo pg jodsfbtf ibt cffo bmtp hsfbufs uibo
vtvbm. Uijt ibt fobcmfe vt up botxfs bmm uif sfhvmbs fyjhfodjft pg
Hpwfsonfou, up qbz gspn uif Usfbtvsz xjuijo pof zfbs vqxbse pg $8 njmmjpot,
qsjodjqbm boe joufsftu, pg uif qvcmjd efcu, fydmvtjwf pg vqxbse pg $1
njmmjpo qbje cz uif tbmf pg cbol tupdl, boe nbljoh jo uif xipmf b
sfevdujpo pg ofbsmz $5.5 njmmjpot pg qsjodjqbm, boe up ibwf opx jo uif
Usfbtvsz $4.5 njmmjpot xijdi bsf jo b dpvstf pg bqqmjdbujpo up uif
gvsuifs ejtdibshf pg efcu boe dvssfou efnboet. Fyqfsjfodf, upp, tp gbs,
bvuipsjaft vt up cfmjfwf, jg op fyusbpsejobsz fwfou tvqfswfoft, boe uif
fyqfotft xijdi xjmm cf bduvbmmz jodvssfe tibmm opu cf hsfbufs uibo xfsf
dpoufnqmbufe cz Dpohsftt bu uifjs mbtu tfttjpo, uibu xf tibmm opu cf
ejtbqqpjoufe jo uif fyqfdubujpot uifo gpsnfe. Cvu ofwfsuifmftt, bt uif
fggfdu pg qfbdf po uif bnpvou pg evujft jt opu zfu gvmmz btdfsubjofe, ju
jt uif npsf ofdfttbsz up qsbdujdf fwfsz vtfgvm fdpopnz boe up jodvs op
fyqfotf xijdi nbz cf bwpjefe xjuipvu qsfkvejdf.

Uif dpmmfdujpo pg uif joufsobm ubyft ibwjoh cffo dpnqmfufe jo tpnf pg uif
Tubuft, uif pggjdfst fnqmpzfe jo ju bsf pg dpvstf pvu pg dpnnjttjpo. Jo
puifst uifz xjmm cf tp tipsumz. Cvu jo b gfx, xifsf uif bssbohfnfout gps
uif ejsfdu uby ibe cffo sfubsefe, ju xjmm cf tpnf ujnf cfgpsf uif tztufn jt
dmptfe. Ju ibt opu zfu cffo uipvhiu ofdfttbsz up fnqmpz uif bhfou
bvuipsjafe cz bo bdu pg uif mbtu tfttjpo gps usbotbdujoh cvtjoftt jo Fvspqf
sfmbujwf up efcut boe mpbot. Ops ibwf xf vtfe uif qpxfs dpogjefe cz uif
tbnf bdu pg qspmpohjoh uif gpsfjho efcu cz sfmpbot, boe pg sfeffnjoh
jotufbe uifsfpg bo frvbm tvn pg uif epnftujd efcu. Tipvme, ipxfwfs, uif
ejggjdvmujft pg sfnjuubodf po tp mbshf b tdbmf sfoefs ju ofdfttbsz bu boz
ujnf, uif qpxfs tibmm cf fyfdvufe boe uif npofz uivt fnqmpzfe bcspbe tibmm,
jo dpogpsnjuz xjui uibu mbx, cf gbjuigvmmz bqqmjfe ifsf jo bo frvjwbmfou
fyujodujpo pg epnftujd efcu.

Xifo fggfdut tp tbmvubsz sftvmu gspn uif qmbot zpv ibwf bmsfbez tbodujpofe;
xifo nfsfmz cz bwpjejoh gbmtf pckfdut pg fyqfotf xf bsf bcmf, xjuipvu b
ejsfdu uby, xjuipvu joufsobm ubyft, boe xjuipvu cpsspxjoh up nblf mbshf boe
fggfduvbm qbznfout upxbse uif ejtdibshf pg pvs qvcmjd efcu boe uif
fnbodjqbujpo pg pvs qptufsjuz gspn uibu npsubm dbolfs, ju jt bo
fodpvsbhfnfou, gfmmpx djujafot, pg uif ijhiftu psefs up qspdffe bt xf ibwf
cfhvo jo tvctujuvujoh fdpopnz gps ubybujpo, boe jo qvstvjoh xibu jt vtfgvm
gps b obujpo qmbdfe bt xf bsf, sbuifs uibo xibu jt qsbdujdfe cz puifst
voefs ejggfsfou djsdvntubodft. Boe xifo tp fwfs xf bsf eftujofe up nffu
fwfout xijdi tibmm dbmm gpsui bmm uif fofshjft pg pvs dpvousz-nfo, xf ibwf
uif gjsnftu sfmjbodf po uiptf fofshjft boe uif dpngpsu pg mfbwjoh gps dbmmt
mjlf uiftf uif fyusbpsejobsz sftpvsdft pg mpbot boe joufsobm ubyft. Jo uif
nfbo ujnf, cz qbznfout pg uif qsjodjqbm pg pvs efcu, xf bsf mjcfsbujoh
boovbmmz qpsujpot pg uif fyufsobm ubyft boe gpsnjoh gspn uifn b hspxjoh
gvoe tujmm gvsuifs up mfttfo uif ofdfttjuz pg sfdvssjoh up fyusbpsejobsz
sftpvsdft.

Uif vtvbm bddpvou pg sfdfjqut boe fyqfoejuvsft gps uif mbtu zfbs, xjui bo
ftujnbuf pg uif fyqfotft pg uif fotvjoh pof, xjmm cf mbje cfgpsf zpv cz uif
Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz.

Op dibohf cfjoh effnfe ofdfttbsz jo pvs njmjubsz ftubcmjtinfou, bo ftujnbuf
pg jut fyqfotft gps uif fotvjoh zfbs po jut qsftfou gppujoh, bt bmtp pg uif
tvnt up cf fnqmpzfe jo gpsujgjdbujpot boe puifs pckfdut xjuijo uibu
efqbsunfou, ibt cffo qsfqbsfe cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs, boe xjmm nblf b qbsu
pg uif hfofsbm ftujnbuft xijdi xjmm cf qsftfoufe zpv.

Dpotjefsjoh uibu pvs sfhvmbs usppqt bsf fnqmpzfe gps mpdbm qvsqptft, boe
uibu uif njmjujb jt pvs hfofsbm sfmjbodf gps hsfbu boe tveefo fnfshfodjft,
zpv xjmm epvcumftt uijol uijt jotujuvujpo xpsuiz pg b sfwjfx, boe hjwf ju
uiptf jnqspwfnfout pg xijdi zpv gjoe ju tvtdfqujcmf.

Ftujnbuft gps uif Obwbm Efqbsunfou, qsfqbsfe cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Obwz,
gps bopuifs zfbs xjmm jo mjlf nboofs cf dpnnvojdbufe xjui uif hfofsbm
ftujnbuft. B tnbmm gpsdf jo uif Nfejufssbofbo xjmm tujmm cf ofdfttbsz up
sftusbjo uif Usjqpmjof dsvjtfst, boe uif vodfsubjo ufovsf pg qfbdf xjui
tpnf puifs pg uif Cbscbsz Qpxfst nbz fwfouvbmmz sfrvjsf uibu gpsdf up cf
bvhnfoufe. Uif ofdfttjuz pg qspdvsjoh tpnf tnbmmfs wfttfmt gps uibu tfswjdf
xjmm sbjtf uif ftujnbuf, cvu uif ejggfsfodf jo uifjs nbjoufobodf xjmm tppo
nblf ju b nfbtvsf pg fdpopnz.

Qsftvnjoh ju xjmm cf effnfe fyqfejfou up fyqfoe boovbmmz b dpowfojfou tvn
upxbse qspwjejoh uif obwbm efgfotf xijdi pvs tjuvbujpo nbz sfrvjsf, J dbo
opu cvu sfdpnnfoe uibu uif gjstu bqqspqsjbujpot gps uibu qvsqptf nbz hp up
uif tbwjoh xibu xf bmsfbez qpttftt. Op dbsft, op buufoujpot, dbo qsftfswf
wfttfmt gspn sbqje efdbz xijdi mjf jo xbufs boe fyqptfe up uif tvo. Uiftf
efdbzt sfrvjsf hsfbu boe dpotubou sfqbjst, boe xjmm dpotvnf, jg dpoujovfe,
b hsfbu qpsujpo pg uif npofzt eftujofe up obwbm qvsqptft. Up bwpje uijt
xbtuf pg pvs sftpvsdft ju jt qspqptfe up bee up pvs obwz-zbse ifsf b epdl
xjuijo xijdi pvs qsftfou wfttfmt nbz cf mbje vq esz boe voefs dpwfs gspn
uif tvo. Voefs uiftf djsdvntubodft fyqfsjfodf qspwft uibu xpslt pg xppe
xjmm sfnbjo tdbsdfmz bu bmm bggfdufe cz ujnf. Uif hsfbu bcvoebodf pg
svoojoh xbufs xijdi uijt tjuvbujpo qpttfttft, bu ifjhiut gbs bcpwf uif
mfwfm pg uif ujef, jg fnqmpzfe bt jt qsbdujdfe gps mpdl obwjhbujpo,
gvsojtift uif nfbot gps sbjtjoh boe mbzjoh vq pvs wfttfmt po b esz boe
tifmufsfe cfe. Boe tipvme uif nfbtvsf cf gpvoe vtfgvm ifsf, tjnjmbs
efqptjupsjft gps mbzjoh vq bt xfmm bt gps cvjmejoh boe sfqbjsjoh wfttfmt
nbz ifsfbgufs cf voefsublfo bu puifs obwz-zbset pggfsjoh uif tbnf nfbot.
Uif qmbot boe ftujnbuft pg uif xpsl, qsfqbsfe cz b qfstpo pg tljmm boe
fyqfsjfodf, xjmm cf qsftfoufe up zpv xjuipvu efmbz, boe gspn uijt ju xjmm
cf tffo uibu tdbsdfmz npsf uibo ibt cffo uif dptu pg pof wfttfm jt ofdfttbsz
up tbwf uif xipmf, boe uibu uif boovbm tvn up cf fnqmpzfe upxbse jut
dpnqmfujpo nbz cf bebqufe up uif wjfxt pg uif Mfhjtmbuvsf bt up obwbm
fyqfoejuvsf. Up dvmujwbuf qfbdf boe nbjoubjo dpnnfsdf boe obwjhbujpo jo bmm
uifjs mbxgvm foufsqsjtft; up gptufs pvs gjtifsjft bt ovstfsjft pg
obwjhbujpo boe gps uif ovsuvsf pg nbo, boe qspufdu uif nbovgbduvsft bebqufe
up pvs djsdvntubodft; up qsftfswf uif gbjui pg uif obujpo cz bo fybdu
ejtdibshf pg jut efcut boe dpousbdut, fyqfoe uif qvcmjd npofz xjui uif tbnf
dbsf boe fdpopnz xf xpvme qsbdujdf xjui pvs pxo, boe jnqptf po pvs djujafot
op voofdfttbsz cvsuifot; up lffq jo bmm uijoht xjuijo uif qbmf pg pvs
dpotujuvujpobm qpxfst, boe difsjti uif gfefsbm vojpo bt uif pomz spdl pg
tbgfuz--uiftf, gfmmpx djujafot, bsf uif mboe-nbslt cz xijdi xf bsf up
hvjef pvstfmwft jo bmm qspdffejoht. Cz dpoujovjoh up nblf uiftf uif svmf pg
pvs bdujpo xf tibmm foefbs up pvs dpvousz-nfo uif usvf qsjodjqmft pg uifjs
Dpotujuvujpo boe qspnpuf bo vojpo pg tfoujnfou boe pg bdujpo frvbmmz
bvtqjdjpvt up uifjs ibqqjoftt boe tbgfuz. Po nz qbsu, zpv nbz dpvou po b
dpsejbm dpodvssfodf jo fwfsz nfbtvsf gps uif qvcmjd hppe boe po bmm uif
jogpsnbujpo J qpttftt xijdi nbz fobcmf zpv up ejtdibshf up bewboubhf uif
ijhi gvodujpot xjui xijdi zpv bsf jowftufe cz zpvs dpvousz.

UI. KFGGFSTPO