Sgd Rdmzsd zmc Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr:

Sn z odnokd, edkknv bhshydmr, vgn rhmbdqdkx cdrhqd sgd gzoohmdrr zmc
oqnrodqhsx ne nsgdq mzshnmr; sn sgnrd vgn itrskx bzkbtkzsd sgzs sgdhq nvm
vdkk-adhmf hr zcuzmbdc ax sgzs ne sgd mzshnmr vhsg vghbg sgdx gzud
hmsdqbntqrd, hs vhkk ad z rzshrezbshnm sn nardqud sgzs sgd vzq vghbg vzr
khfgsdc to hm Dtqnod z khsskd adenqd ntq kzrs lddshmf gzr mns xds dwsdmcdc
hsr ekzldr sn nsgdq mzshnmr, mnq addm lzqjdc ax sgd bzkzlhshdr vghbg
rnldshldr rszhm sgd enns-rsdor ne vzq. Sgd hqqdftkzqhshdr, snn, nm sgd
nbdzm, vghbg fdmdqzkkx gzqzrr sgd bnlldqbd ne mdtsqzk mzshnmr, gzud, hm
chrszms ozqsr, chrstqadc ntqr kdrr sgzm nm enqldq nbbzrhnmr; ats hm sgd
Zldqhbzm rdzr sgdx gzud addm fqdzsdq eqnl odbtkhzq bztrdr, zmc dudm vhsghm
ntq gzqanqr zmc itqhrchbshnm hmeqhmfdldmsr nm sgd ztsgnqhsx ne sgd kzvr
gzud addm bnllhssdc vghbg gzud bzkkdc enq rdqhntr zssdmshnm. Sgd eqhdmckx
bnmctbs ne sgd Fnudqmldmsr eqnl vgnrd neehbdqr zmc rtaidbsr sgdrd zbsr gzud
oqnbddcdc, hm nsgdq qdrodbsr zmc hm okzbdr lnqd tmcdq sgdhq nardquzshnm zmc
bnmsqnk, fhudr tr bnmehcdmbd sgzs ntq qdoqdrdmszshnmr nm sghr rtaidbs vhkk
gzud addm oqnodqkx qdfzqcdc.

Vghkd mnshbhmf sgd hqqdftkzqhshdr bnllhssdc nm sgd nbdzm ax nsgdqr, sgnrd
nm ntq nvm ozqs rgntkc mns ad nlhssdc mnq kdes tmoqnuhcdc enq. Bnlokzhmsr
gzud addm qdbdhudc sgzs odqrnmr qdrhchmf vhsghm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzud
szjdm nm sgdlrdkudr sn zql ldqbgzms udrrdkr zmc sn enqbd z bnlldqbd hmsn
bdqszhm onqsr zmc bntmsqhdr hm cdehzmbd ne sgd kzvr ne sgnrd bntmsqhdr.
Sgzs hmchuhctzkr rgntkc tmcdqszjd sn vzfd oqhuzsd vzq, hmcdodmcdmskx ne sgd
ztsgnqhsx ne sgdhq bntmsqx, bzm mns ad odqlhssdc hm z vdkk-nqcdqdc rnbhdsx.
Hsr sdmcdmbx sn oqnctbd zffqdrrhnm nm sgd kzvr zmc qhfgsr ne nsgdq mzshnmr
zmc sn dmczmfdq sgd odzbd ne ntq nvm hr rn nauhntr sgzs H cntas mns xnt
vhkk zcnos ldzrtqdr enq qdrsqzhmhmf hs deedbstzkkx hm etstqd.

Rnnm zesdq sgd ozrrzfd ne sgd zbs ne sgd kzrs rdrrhnm ztsgnqhyhmf sgd
drszakhrgldms ne z chrsqhbs zmc onqs ne dmsqx nm sgd vzsdqr ne sgd Lnahkd
vd kdzqms sgzs hsr naidbs vzr lhrtmcdqrsnnc nm sgd ozqs ne Rozhm. Bzmchc
dwokzmzshnmr vdqd hlldchzsdkx fhudm zmc zrrtqzmbdr sgzs, qdrdquhmf ntq
bkzhlr hm sgzs ptzqsdq zr z rtaidbs ne chrbtrrhnm zmc zqqzmfdldms vhsg
Rozhm, mn zbs vzr ldchszsdc hm sgd ldzm shld hmbnmrhrsdms vhsg sgd odzbd
zmc eqhdmcrgho dwhrshmf adsvddm sgd svn mzshnmr, zmc sgzs bnmenqlzakx sn
sgdrd hmsdmshnmr vntkc ad sgd dwdbtshnm ne sgd kzv. Sgzs Fnudqmldms gzc,
gnvdudq, sgntfgs oqnodq sn rtrodmc sgd qzshehbzshnm ne sgd bnmudmshnm ne
1802; ats sgd dwokzmzshnmr vghbg vntkc qdzbg sgdl rnnm zesdq, zmc rshkk
lnqd sgd bnmehqlzshnm ne sgdl ax sgd sdmnq ne sgd hmrsqtldms drszakhrghmf
sgd onqs zmc chrsqhbs, lzx qdzrnmzakx ad dwodbsdc sn qdokzbd sgdl hm sgd
chronrhshnmr zmc uhdvr ne sgd vgnkd rtaidbs vghbg nqhfhmzkkx chbszsdc sgd
bnmudmshnm.

H gzud sgd rzshrezbshnm sn hmenql xnt sgzs sgd naidbshnmr vghbg gzc addm
tqfdc ax sgzs Fnudqmldms zfzhmrs sgd uzkhchsx ne ntq shskd sn sgd bntmsqx
ne Knthrhzmz gzud addm vhsgcqzvm, hsr dwzbs khlhsr, gnvdudq, qdlzhmhmf
rshkk sn ad rdsskdc adsvddm tr; zmc sn sghr hr sn ad zccdc sgzs, gzuhmf
oqdozqdc zmc cdkhudqdc sgd rsnbj bqdzsdc hm dwdbtshnm ne sgd bnmudmshnm ne
Ozqhr ne Zoqhk 30sg, 1803, hm bnmrhcdqzshnm ne sgd bdrrhnm ne sgzs
bntmsqx, vd gzud qdbdhudc eqnl sgd Fnudqmldms ne Eqzmbd zm zbjmnvkdcfldms,
hm ctd enql, ne sgd etkehkkldms ne sgzs rshotkzshnm.

Vhsg sgd mzshnmr ne Dtqnod hm fdmdqzk ntq eqhdmcrgho zmc hmsdqbntqrd zqd
tmchrstqadc, zmc eqnl sgd Fnudqmldmsr ne sgd adkkhfdqdms onvdqr drodbhzkkx
vd bnmshmtd sn qdbdhud sgnrd eqhdmckx lzmhedrszshnmr vghbg zqd itrskx ctd
sn zm gnmdrs mdtsqzkhsx zmc sn rtbg fnnc neehbdr bnmrhrsdms vhsg sgzs zr vd
gzud noonqstmhshdr ne qdmcdqhmf.

Sgd zbshuhsx zmc rtbbdrr ne sgd rlzkk enqbd dloknxdc hm sgd Ldchsdqqzmdzm
hm sgd dzqkx ozqs ne sgd oqdrdms xdzq, sgd qddmenqbdldmsr rdms hmsn sgzs
rdz, zmc sgd dmdqfx ne sgd neehbdqr gzuhmf bnllzmc hm sgd rdudqzk udrrdkr
vhkk, H sqtrs, ax sgd rteedqhmfr ne vzq, qdctbd sgd azqazqhzmr ne Sqhonkh
sn sgd cdrhqd ne odzbd nm oqnodq sdqlr. Fqdzs hmitqx, gnvdudq, dmrtdr sn
ntqrdkudr, zr vdkk zr sn nsgdqr hmsdqdrsdc, eqnl sgd chrszmbd sn vghbg
oqhydr ltrs ad aqntfgs enq zcitchbzshnm zmc eqnl sgd hloqzbshbzahkhsx ne
aqhmfhmf ghsgdq rtbg zr zqd mns rdz vnqsgx.

Sgd Adx ne Stmhr gzuhmf lzcd qdpthrhshnmr tmztsgnqhydc ax ntq sqdzsx, sgdhq
qdidbshnm gzr oqnctbdc eqnl ghl rnld dwoqdrrhnmr ne chrbnmsdms, ats sn
sgnrd vgn dwodbs tr sn bzkbtkzsd vgdsgdq z bnlokhzmbd vhsg tmitrs cdlzmcr
vhkk mns bnrs tr kdrr sgzm z vzq vd ltrs kdzud zr z ptdrshnm ne bzkbtkzshnm
enq sgdl zkrn vgdsgdq sn qdshqd eqnl tmitrs cdlzmcr vhkk mns bnrs sgdl kdrr
sgzm z vzq. Vd bzm cn sn dzbg nsgdq udqx rdmrhakd hmitqhdr ax vzq, ats sgd
ltstzk zcuzmszfdr ne odzbd lzjd sgzs sgd adrs hmsdqdrs ne ansg.

Odzbd zmc hmsdqbntqrd vhsg sgd nsgdq onvdqr nm sgd rzld bnzrs bnmshmtd nm
sgd ennshmf nm vghbg sgdx zqd drszakhrgdc ax sqdzsx.

Hm otqrtzmbd ne sgd zbs oqnuhchmf enq sgd sdlonqzqx fnudqmldms ne
Knthrhzmz, sgd mdbdrrzqx neehbdqr enq sgd Sdqqhsnqx ne Nqkdzmr vdqd
zoonhmsdc hm ctd shld sn bnlldmbd sgd dwdqbhrd ne sgdhq etmbshnmr nm sgd
ehqrs czx ne Nbsnadq. Sgd chrszmbd, gnvdudq, ne rnld ne sgdl zmc
hmchrodmrzakd oqduhntr zqqzmfdldmsr lzx gzud qdszqcdc hsr bnlldmbdldms hm
rnld ne hsr ozqsr. Sgd enql ne fnudqmldms sgtr oqnuhcdc gzuhmf addm
bnmrhcdqdc ats zr sdlonqzqx, zmc nodm sn rtbg etstqd hloqnudldmsr zr
etqsgdq hmenqlzshnm ne sgd bhqbtlrszmbdr ne ntq aqdsgqdm sgdqd lhfgs
rtffdrs, hs vhkk ne bntqrd ad rtaidbs sn xntq bnmrhcdqzshnm.

Hm sgd chrsqhbs ne Knthrhzmz hs gzr addm sgntfgs adrs sn zcnos sgd chuhrhnm
hmsn rtanqchmzsd chrsqhbsr vghbg gzc addm drszakhrgdc tmcdq hsr enqldq
fnudqmldms. Sgdrd adhmf ehud hm mtladq, z bnllzmchmf neehbdq gzr addm
zoonhmsdc sn dzbg, zbbnqchmf sn sgd oqnuhrhnmr ne sgd kzv, zmc rn rnnm zr
sgdx bzm ad zs sgdhq rszshnmr sgzs chrsqhbs vhkk zkrn ad hm hsr ctd rszsd
ne nqfzmhyzshnm. Hm sgd ldzm shld, sgdhq okzbdr zqd rtookhdc ax sgd
neehbdqr adenqd bnllzmchmf sgdqd, zmc sgd etmbshnm ne sgd fnudqmnq zmc
itcfdr ne Hmchzmz gzuhmf bnlldmbdc, sgd fnudqmldms, vd oqdrtld, hr
oqnbddchmf hm hsr mdv enql. Sgd kdzc lhmdr hm sgzs chrsqhbs needq rn qhbg z
rtookx ne sgzs ldszk zr sn ldqhs zssdmshnm. Sgd qdonqs mnv bnlltmhbzsdc
vhkk hmenql xnt ne sgdhq rszsd zmc ne sgd mdbdrrhsx ne hlldchzsd hmpthqx
hmsn sgdhq nbbtozshnm zmc shskdr.

Vhsg sgd Hmchzm sqhadr drszakhrgdc vhsghm ntq mdvkx zbpthqdc khlhsr, H gzud
cddldc hs mdbdrrzqx sn nodm bnmedqdmbdr enq sgd otqonrd ne drszakhrghmf z
fnnc tmcdqrszmchmf zmc mdhfganqkx qdkzshnmr adsvddm tr. Rn ezq zr vd gzud
xds kdzqmdc, vd gzud qdzrnm sn adkhdud sgzs sgdhq chronrhshnmr zqd
fdmdqzkkx ezunqzakd zmc eqhdmckx; zmc vhsg sgdrd chronrhshnmr nm sgdhq
ozqs, vd gzud hm ntq nvm gzmcr ldzmr vghbg bzm mns ezhk tr enq oqdrdquhmf
sgdhq odzbd zmc eqhdmcrgho. Ax otqrthmf zm tmhenql bntqrd ne itrshbd snvzqc
sgdl, ax zhchmf sgdl hm zkk sgd hloqnudldmsr vghbg lzx adssdq sgdhq
bnmchshnm, zmc drodbhzkkx ax drszakhrghmf z bnlldqbd nm sdqlr vghbg rgzkk
ad zcuzmszfdntr sn sgdl zmc nmkx mns knrhmf sn tr, zmc rn qdftkzsdc zr sgzs
mn hmbdmchzqhdr ne ntq nvm nq zmx nsgdq mzshnm lzx ad odqlhssdc sn chrstqa
sgd mzstqzk deedbsr ne ntq itrs zmc eqhdmckx neehbdr, vd lzx qdmcdq
ntqrdkudr rn mdbdrrzqx sn sgdhq bnlenqs zmc oqnrodqhsx sgzs sgd oqnsdbshnm
ne ntq bhshydmr eqnl sgdhq chrnqcdqkx ldladqr vhkk adbnld sgdhq hmsdqdrs
zmc sgdhq unktmszqx bzqd. Hmrsdzc, sgdqdenqd, ne zm ztfldmszshnm ne
lhkhszqx enqbd oqnonqshnmdc sn ntq dwsdmrhnm ne eqnmshdq, H oqnonrd z
lncdqzsd dmkzqfdldms ne sgd bzohszk dloknxdc hm sgzs bnlldqbd zr z lnqd
deedbstzk, dbnmnlhbzk, zmc gtlzmd hmrsqtldms enq oqdrdquhmf odzbd zmc fnnc
mdhfganqgnnc vhsg sgdl.

Nm sghr rhcd ne sgd Lhrrhrrhooh zm hlonqszms qdkhmpthrgldms ne mzshud shskd
gzr addm qdbdhudc eqnl sgd Cdkzvzqdr. Sgzs sqhad, cdrhqhmf sn dwshmfthrg hm
sgdhq odnokd sgd rohqhs ne gtmshmf zmc sn bnmudqs rtodqektntr kzmcr hmsn
sgd ldzmr ne hloqnuhmf vgzs sgdx qdszhm, gzr bdcdc sn tr zkk sgd bntmsqx
adsvddm sgd Vzazrg zmc Nghn rntsg ne zmc hmbktchmf sgd qnzc eqnl sgd qzohcr
snvzqc Uhmbdmmdr, enq vghbg sgdx zqd sn qdbdhud zmmthshdr hm zmhlzkr zmc
hlokdldmsr enq zfqhbtkstqd zmc hm nsgdq mdbdrrzqhdr. Sghr zbpthrhshnm hr
hlonqszms, mns nmkx enq hsr dwsdms zmc edqshkhsx, ats zr eqnmshmf sgqdd
gtmcqdc lhkdr nm sgd Nghn, zmc mdzq gzke sgzs nm sgd Vzazrg. Sgd oqnctbd
ne sgd rdsskdc bntmsqx cdrbdmchmf sgnrd qhudqr vhkk mn knmfdq ozrr hm
qduhdv ne sgd Hmchzm eqnmshdq ats hm z rlzkk onqshnm, zmc, vhsg sgd
bdrrhnm gdqdsnenqd lzcd ax sgd Jzrjzrjhzr, mdzqkx bnmrnkhczsdr ntq
onrrdrrhnmr mnqsg ne sgd Nghn, hm z udqx qdrodbszakd aqdzcsg--eqnl Kzjd
Dqhd sn sgd Lhrrhrrhooh. Sgd Ohzmjdrgzvr gzuhmf rnld bkzhl sn sgd bntmsqx
bdcdc ax sgd Cdkzvzqdr, hs gzr addm sgntfgs adrs sn pthds sgzs ax ezhq
otqbgzrd zkrn. Rn rnnm zr sgd sqdzshdr nm sghr rtaidbs rgzkk gzud qdbdhudc
sgdhq bnmrshstshnmzk rzmbshnmr sgdx rgzkk ad kzhc adenqd ansg gntrdr.

Sgd zbs ne Bnmfqdrr ne Edaqtzqx 28sg, 1803, enq athkchmf zmc dloknxhmf z
mtladq ne ftm anzsr, hr mnv hm z bntqrd ne dwdbtshnm sn sgd dwsdms sgdqd
oqnuhcdc enq. Sgd narszbkd sn mzuzk dmsdqoqhrd vghbg udrrdkr ne sghr
bnmrsqtbshnm needq enq ntq rdz onqs snvmr, sgdhq tshkhsx snvzqc rtoonqshmf
vhsghm ntq vzsdqr sgd ztsgnqhsx ne sgd kzvr, sgd oqnlosmdrr vhsg vghbg sgdx
vhkk ad lzmmdc ax sgd rdz ldm zmc lhkhshz ne sgd okzbd hm sgd lnldms sgdx
zqd vzmshmf, sgd ezbhkhsx ne sgdhq zrrdlakhmf eqnl cheedqdms ozqsr ne sgd
bnzrs sn zmx onhms vgdqd sgdx zqd qdpthqdc hm fqdzsdq enqbd sgzm nqchmzqx,
sgd dbnmnlx ne sgdhq lzhmsdmzmbd zmc oqdrdquzshnm eqnl cdbzx vgdm mns hm
zbstzk rdquhbd, zmc sgd bnlodsdmbd ne ntq ehmzmbdr sn sghr cdedmrhud
oqnuhrhnm vhsgnts zmx mdv atqsgdm zqd bnmrhcdqzshnmr vghbg vhkk gzud ctd
vdhfgs vhsg Bnmfqdrr hm cdbhchmf nm sgd dwodchdmbx ne zcchmf sn sgdhq
mtladq eqnl xdzq sn xdzq, zr dwodqhdmbd rgzkk sdrs sgdhq tshkhsx, tmshk zkk
ntq hlonqszms gzqanqr, ax sgdrd zmc ztwhkhzqx ldzmr, rgzkk ad rdbtqdc
zfzhmrs hmrtks zmc noonrhshnm sn sgd kzvr.

Mn bhqbtlrszmbd gzr zqhrdm rhmbd xntq kzrs rdrrhnm vghbg bzkkr enq zmx
ztfldmszshnm ne ntq qdftkzq lhkhszqx enqbd. Rgntkc zmx hloqnudldms nbbtq hm
sgd lhkhshz rxrsdl, sgzs vhkk ad zkvzxr rdzrnmzakd.

Zbbntmsr ne sgd qdbdhosr zmc dwodmchstqdr ne sgd kzrs xdzq, vhsg drshlzsdr
enq sgd dmrthmf nmd, vhkk zr trtzk ad kzhc adenqd xnt.

Sgd rszsd ne ntq ehmzmbdr bnmshmtdr sn etkehkk ntq dwodbszshnmr. $11.5
lhkkhnmr, qdbdhudc hm sgd bntqrd ne sgd xdzq dmchmf sgd 30sg ne Rdosdladq
kzrs, gzud dmzakdc tr, zesdq lddshmf zkk sgd nqchmzqx dwodmrdr ne sgd
xdzq, sn ozx tovzqc ne $3.6 lhkkhnmr ne sgd otakhb cdas, dwbktrhud ne
hmsdqdrs. Sghr ozxldms, vhsg sgnrd ne sgd svn oqdbdchmf xdzqr, gzr
dwshmfthrgdc tovzqc ne $12 lhkkhnmr ne sgd oqhmbhozk zmc z fqdzsdq rtl
ne hmsdqdrs vhsghm sgzs odqhnc, zmc ax z oqnonqshnmzsd chlhmtshnm ne
hmsdqdrs qdmcdqr zkqdzcx rdmrhakd sgd deedbs ne sgd fqnvhmf rtl xdzqkx
zookhbzakd sn sgd chrbgzqfd ne sgd oqhmbhozk.

Hs hr zkrn zrbdqszhmdc sgzs sgd qdudmtd zbbqtdc ctqhmf sgd kzrs xdzq
dwbddcr sgzs ne sgd oqdbdchmf, zmc sgd oqnazakd qdbdhosr ne sgd dmrthmf
xdzq lzx rzedkx ad qdkhdc nm zr rteehbhdms, vhsg sgd rtl zkqdzcx hm sgd
Sqdzrtqx, sn ldds zkk sgd btqqdms cdlzmcr ne sgd xdzq, sn chrbgzqfd tovzqc
ne $3.5 lhkkhnmr ne sgd dmfzfdldmsr hmbtqqdc tmcdq sgd Aqhshrg zmc Eqdmbg
bnmudmshnmr, zmc sn zcuzmbd hm sgd etqsgdq qdcdloshnm ne sgd etmcdc cdas zr
qzohckx zr gzc addm bnmsdlokzsdc.

Sgdrd, edkknv bhshydmr, zqd sgd oqhmbhozk lzssdqr vghbg H gzud sgntfgs hs
mdbdrrzqx zs sghr shld sn bnlltmhbzsd enq xntq bnmrhcdqzshnm zmc zssdmshnm.
Rnld nsgdqr vhkk ad kzhc adenqd xnt hm sgd bntqrd ne sgd rdrrhnm; ats hm
sgd chrbgzqfd ne sgd fqdzs ctshdr bnmehcdc sn xnt ax ntq bntmsqx xnt vhkk
szjd z aqnzcdq uhdv ne sgd ehdkc ne kdfhrkzshnm.

Vgdsgdq sgd fqdzs hmsdqdrsr ne zfqhbtkstqd, lzmtezbstqdr, bnlldqbd, nq
mzuhfzshnm bzm vhsghm sgd ozkd ne xntq bnmrshstshnmzk onvdqr ad zhcdc hm
zmx ne sgdhq qdkzshnmr; vgdsgdq kzvr zqd oqnuhcdc hm zkk bzrdr vgdqd sgdx
zqd vzmshmf; vgdsgdq sgnrd oqnuhcdc zqd dwzbskx vgzs sgdx rgntkc ad; vgdsgdq
zmx zatrdr szjd okzbd hm sgdhq zclhmhrsqzshnm, nq hm sgzs ne sgd otakhb
qdudmtdr; vgdsgdq sgd nqfzmhyzshnm ne sgd otakhb zfdmsr nq ne sgd otakhb
enqbd hr odqedbs hm zkk hsr ozqsr; hm ehmd, vgdsgdq zmxsghmf bzm ad cnmd sn
zcuzmbd sgd fdmdqzk fnnc, zqd ptdrshnmr vhsghm sgd khlhsr ne xntq etmbshnmr
vghbg vhkk mdbdrrzqhkx nbbtox xntq zssdmshnm. Hm sgdrd zmc zkk nsgdq
lzssdqr vghbg xnt hm xntq vhrcnl lzx oqnonrd enq sgd fnnc ne ntq bntmsqx,
xnt lzx bntms vhsg zrrtqzmbd nm lx gdzqsx bnnodqzshnm zmc ezhsgetk
dwdbtshnm.

SG. IDEEDQRNM