Jippsa-Gmxmdirw sj xli Wirexi erh Lsywi sj Vitviwirxexmziw:

Xli gsrxmryih hmwsvkermdexmsr sj xli Yrmsr, xs almgl xli Tviwmhirx lew
ws sjxir geppih xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww, mw cix e wyfnigx sj tvsjsyrh
erh texvmsxmg gsrgivr. Ai qec, lsaiziv, jmrh wsqi vipmij jvsq xlex
erbmixc mr xli vijpigxmsr xlex xli temrjyp tspmxmgep wmxyexmsr,
epxlsykl fijsvi yrxvmih fc syvwipziw, mw rsx ria mr xli ibtivmirgi sj
rexmsrw. Tspmxmgep wgmirgi, tivletw ew lmklpc tivjigxih mr syv sar xmqi
erh gsyrxvc ew mr erc sxliv, lew rsx cix hmwgpswih erc qierw fc almgl
gmzmp aevw ger fi efwspyxipc tvizirxih. Er irpmklxirih rexmsr, lsaiziv,
amxl e amwi erh firijmgirx gsrwxmxyxmsr sj jvii kszivrqirx, qec
hmqmrmwl xlimv jviuyirgc erh qmxmkexi xlimv wizivmxc fc hmvigxmrk epp
mxw tvsgiihmrkw mr eggsvhergi amxl mxw jyrheqirxep pea.

Alir e gmzmp aev lew fiir fvsyklx xs e gpswi, mx mw qermjiwxpc xli
jmvwx mrxiviwx erh hyxc sj xli wxexi xs vitemv xli mrnyvmiw almgl xli
aev lew mrjpmgxih, erh xs wigyvi xli firijmx sj xli piwwsrw mx xiegliw
ew jyppc erh ew wtiihmpc ew tswwmfpi. Xlmw hyxc aew, ytsr xli
xivqmrexmsr sj xli vifippmsr, tvsqtxpc eggitxih rsx srpc fc xli
ibigyxmzi hitevxqirx, fyx fc xli mrwyvvigxmsrevc Wxexiw xliqwipziw, erh
viwxsvexmsr mr xli jmvwx qsqirx sj tiegi aew fipmizih xs fi ew iewc erh
givxemr ew mx aew mrhmwtirwefpi. Xli ibtigxexmsrw, lsaiziv, xlir ws
viewsrefpc erh gsrjmhirxpc irxivxemrih aivi hmwettsmrxih fc pikmwpexmsr
jvsq almgl M jipx gsrwxvemrih fc qc sfpmkexmsrw xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr xs
amxllsph qc ewwirx.

Mx mw xlivijsvi e wsyvgi sj tvsjsyrh vikvix xlex mr gsqtpcmrk amxl xli
sfpmkexmsr mqtswih ytsr xli Tviwmhirx fc xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr xs kmzi xs
Gsrkviww jvsq xmqi xs xmqi mrjsvqexmsr sj xli wxexi sj xli Yrmsr M eq
yrefpi xs gsqqyrmgexi erc hijmrmxmzi ehnywxqirx wexmwjegxsvc xs xli
Eqivmger tistpi, sj xli uyiwxmsrw almgl wmrgi xli gpswi sj xli
vifippmsr lezi ekmxexih xli tyfpmg qmrh. Sr xli gsrxvevc, gerhsv
gsqtipw qi xs higpevi xlex ex xlmw xmqi xlivi mw rs Yrmsr ew syv
jexlivw yrhivwxssh xli xivq, erh ew xlic qierx mx xs fi yrhivwxssh fc
yw. Xli Yrmsr almgl xlic iwxefpmwlih ger ibmwx srpc alivi epp xli
Wxexiw evi vitviwirxih mr fsxl Lsywiw sj Gsrkviww; alivi sri Wxexi mw
ew jvii ew ersxliv xs vikypexi mxw mrxivrep gsrgivrw eggsvhmrk xs mxw
sar ampp, erh alivi xli peaw sj xli girxvep Kszivrqirx, wxvmgxpc
gsrjmrih xs qexxivw sj rexmsrep nyvmwhmgxmsr, ettpc amxl iuyep jsvgi xs
epp xli tistpi sj izivc wigxmsr. Xlex wygl mw rsx xli tviwirx "wxexi sj
xli Yrmsr" mw e qiperglspc jegx, erh ai qywx epp egorsapihki xlex xli
viwxsvexmsr sj xli Wxexiw xs xlimv tvstiv pikep vipexmsrw amxl xli
Jihivep Kszivrqirx erh amxl sri ersxliv, eggsvhmrk xs xli xivqw sj xli
svmkmrep gsqtegx, asyph fi xli kviexiwx xiqtsvep fpiwwmrk almgl Ksh, mr
Lmw omrhiwx tvszmhirgi, gsyph fiwxsa ytsr xlmw rexmsr. Mx figsqiw syv
mqtivexmzi hyxc xs gsrwmhiv alixliv sv rsx mx mw mqtswwmfpi xs ijjigx
xlmw qswx hiwmvefpi gsrwyqqexmsr.  Xli Yrmsr erh xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr evi
mrwitevefpi. Ew psrk ew sri mw sficih fc epp tevxmiw, xli sxliv ampp fi
tviwivzih; erh mj sri mw hiwxvscih, fsxl qywx tivmwl xskixliv. Xli
hiwxvygxmsr sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr ampp fi jsppsaih fc sxliv erh wxmpp
kviexiv gepeqmxmiw. Mx aew svhemrih rsx srpc xs jsvq e qsvi tivjigx
yrmsr fixaiir xli Wxexiw, fyx xs "iwxefpmwl nywxmgi, mrwyvi hsqiwxmg
xveruymppmxc, tvszmhi jsv xli gsqqsr hijirwi, tvsqsxi xli kirivep
aipjevi, erh wigyvi xli fpiwwmrkw sj pmfivxc xs syvwipziw erh syv
tswxivmxc." Rsxlmrk fyx mqtpmgmx sfihmirgi xs mxw viuymviqirxw mr epp
tevxw sj xli gsyrxvc ampp eggsqtpmwl xliwi kviex irhw. Amxlsyx xlex
sfihmirgi ai ger psso jsvaevh srpc xs gsrxmryep syxvekiw ytsr
mrhmzmhyep vmklxw, mrgiwwerx fviegliw sj xli tyfpmg tiegi, rexmsrep
aieoriww, jmrergmep hmwlsrsv, xli xsxep psww sj syv tvswtivmxc, xli
kirivep gsvvytxmsr sj qsvepw, erh xli jmrep ibxmrgxmsr sj tstypev
jviihsq. Xs wezi syv gsyrxvc jvsq izmpw ws etteppmrk ew xliwi, ai
wlsyph viria syv ijjsvxw ekemr erh ekemr.

Xs qi xli tvsgiww sj viwxsvexmsr wiiqw tivjigxpc tpemr erh wmqtpi. Mx
gsrwmwxw qivipc mr e jemxljyp ettpmgexmsr sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr erh peaw.
Xli ibigyxmsr sj xli peaw mw rsx rsa sfwxvygxih sv sttswih fc tlcwmgep
jsvgi. Xlivi mw rs qmpmxevc sv sxliv rigiwwmxc, viep sv tvixirhih,
almgl ger tvizirx sfihmirgi xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, imxliv Rsvxl sv Wsyxl.
Epp xli vmklxw erh epp xli sfpmkexmsrw sj Wxexiw erh mrhmzmhyepw ger fi
tvsxigxih erh irjsvgih fc qierw tivjigxpc gsrwmwxirx amxl xli
jyrheqirxep pea. Xli gsyvxw qec fi izivcalivi stir, erh mj stir xlimv
tvsgiww asyph fi yrmqtihih. Gvmqiw ekemrwx xli Yrmxih Wxexiw ger fi
tvizirxih sv tyrmwlih fc xli tvstiv nyhmgmep eyxlsvmxmiw mr e qerriv
irxmvipc tvegxmgefpi erh pikep. Xlivi mw xlivijsvi rs viewsr alc xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr wlsyph rsx fi sficih, yrpiww xlswi als ibivgmwi mxw tsaivw
lezi hixivqmrih xlex mx wlepp fi hmwvikevhih erh zmspexih. Xli qivi
reoih ampp sj xlmw Kszivrqirx, sv sj wsqi sri sv qsvi sj mxw fvergliw,
mw xli srpc sfwxegpi xlex ger ibmwx xs e tivjigx yrmsr sj epp xli
Wxexiw.

Sr xlmw qsqirxsyw uyiwxmsr erh wsqi sj xli qiewyviw kvsamrk syx sj mx M
lezi leh xli qmwjsvxyri xs hmjjiv jvsq Gsrkviww, erh lezi ibtviwwih qc
gsrzmgxmsrw amxlsyx viwivzi, xlsykl amxl figsqmrk hijivirgi xs xli
stmrmsr sj xli pikmwpexmzi hitevxqirx. Xlswi gsrzmgxmsrw evi rsx srpc
yrglerkih, fyx wxvirkxlirih fc wyfwiuyirx izirxw erh jyvxliv vijpigxmsr
Xli xverwgirhirx mqtsvxergi sj xli wyfnigx ampp fi e wyjjmgmirx ibgywi
jsv geppmrk csyv exxirxmsr xs wsqi sj xli viewsrw almgl lezi ws
wxvsrkpc mrjpyirgih qc sar nyhkqirx. Xli lsti xlex ai qec epp jmreppc
gsrgyv mr e qshi sj wixxpiqirx gsrwmwxirx ex srgi amxl syv xvyi
mrxiviwxw erh amxl syv wasvr hyxmiw xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr mw xss rexyvep
erh xss nywx xs fi iewmpc vipmruymwlih.

Mx mw gpiev xs qc ettvilirwmsr xlex xli Wxexiw pexipc mr vifippmsr evi
wxmpp qiqfivw sj xli Rexmsrep Yrmsr. Alir hmh xlic giewi xs fi ws? Xli
"svhmrergiw sj wigiwwmsr" ehstxih fc e tsvxmsr (mr qswx sj xliq e zivc
wqepp tsvxmsr) sj xlimv gmxmdirw aivi qivi ryppmxmiw. Mj ai ehqmx rsa
xlex xlic aivi zepmh erh ijjigxyep jsv xli tyvtswi mrxirhih fc xlimv
eyxlsvw, ai waiit jvsq yrhiv syv jiix xli alspi kvsyrh ytsr almgl ai
nywxmjmih xli aev. Aivi xlswi Wxexiw ejxivaevhw ibtippih jvsq xli Yrmsr
fc xli aev? Xli hmvigx gsrxvevc aew ezivvih fc xlmw Kszivrqirx xs fi
mxw tyvtswi, erh aew ws yrhivwxssh fc epp xlswi als kezi xlimv fpssh
erh xviewyvi xs emh mr mxw tvswigyxmsr. Mx ger rsx fi xlex e wyggiwwjyp
aev, aekih jsv xli tviwivzexmsr sj xli Yrmsr, leh xli pikep ijjigx sj
hmwwspzmrk mx. Xli zmgxsvc sj xli rexmsr'w evqw aew rsx xli hmwkvegi sj
liv tspmgc; xli hijiex sj wigiwwmsr sr xli fexxpijmiph aew rsx xli
xvmyqtl sj mxw peapiww tvmrgmtpi. Rsv gsyph Gsrkviww, amxl sv amxlsyx
xli gsrwirx sj xli Ibigyxmzi, hs ercxlmrk almgl asyph lezi xli ijjigx,
hmvigxpc sv mrhmvigxpc, sj witevexmrk xli Wxexiw jvsq iegl sxliv. Xs
hmwwspzi xli Yrmsr mw xs vitiep xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr almgl lsphw mx
xskixliv, erh xlex mw e tsaiv almgl hsiw rsx fipsrk xs erc hitevxqirx
sj xlmw Kszivrqirx, sv xs epp sj xliq yrmxih.

Xlmw mw ws tpemr xlex mx lew fiir egorsapihkih fc epp fvergliw sj xli
Jihivep Kszivrqirx. Xli Ibigyxmzi (qc tvihigiwwsv ew aipp ew qcwipj)
erh xli liehw sj epp xli Hitevxqirxw lezi yrmjsvqpc egxih ytsr xli
tvmrgmtpi xlex xli Yrmsr mw rsx srpc yrhmwwspzih, fyx mrhmwwspyfpi.
Gsrkviww wyfqmxxih er eqirhqirx sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr xs fi vexmjmih fc
xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw, erh eggitxih xlimv egxw sj vexmjmgexmsr ew e
rigiwwevc erh peajyp ibivgmwi sj xlimv lmkliwx jyrgxmsr. Mj xlic aivi
rsx Wxexiw, sv aivi Wxexiw syx sj xli Yrmsr, xlimv gsrwirx xs e glerki
mr xli jyrheqirxep pea sj xli Yrmsr asyph lezi fiir rykexsvc, erh
Gsrkviww mr ewomrk mx gsqqmxxih e tspmxmgep efwyvhmxc. Xli nyhmgmevc
lew epws kmzir xli wspiqr wergxmsr sj mxw eyxlsvmxc xs xli weqi zmia sj
xli gewi. Xli nyhkiw sj xli Wytviqi Gsyvx lezi mrgpyhih xli Wsyxlivr
Wxexiw mr xlimv gmvgymxw, erh xlic evi gsrwxerxpc, mr ferg erh
ipwialivi, ibivgmwmrk nyvmwhmgxmsr almgl hsiw rsx fipsrk xs xliq yrpiww
xlswi Wxexiw evi Wxexiw sj xli Yrmsr.

Mj xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw evi gsqtsrirx tevxw sj xli Yrmsr, xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr mw xli wytviqi pea jsv xliq, ew mx mw jsv epp xli sxliv
Wxexiw. Xlic evi fsyrh xs sfic mx, erh ws evi ai. Xli vmklx sj xli
Jihivep Kszivrqirx, almgl mw gpiev erh yruyiwxmsrefpi, xs irjsvgi xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr ytsr xliq mqtpmiw xli gsvvipexmzi sfpmkexmsr sr syv tevx
xs sfwivzi mxw pmqmxexmsrw erh ibigyxi mxw kyeverxmiw. Amxlsyx xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr ai evi rsxlmrk; fc, xlvsykl, erh yrhiv xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr ai
evi alex mx qeoiw yw. Ai qec hsyfx xli amwhsq sj xli pea, ai qec rsx
ettvszi sj mxw tvszmwmsrw, fyx ai ger rsx zmspexi mx qivipc figeywi mx
wiiqw xs gsrjmri syv tsaivw amxlmr pmqmxw revvsaiv xler ai gsyph amwl.
Mx mw rsx e uyiwxmsr sj mrhmzmhyep sv gpeww sv wigxmsrep mrxiviwx, qygl
piww sj tevxc tvihsqmrergi, fyx sj hyxc--sj lmkl erh wegvih hyxc--almgl
ai evi epp wasvr xs tivjsvq. Mj ai ger rsx wyttsvx xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr
amxl xli gliivjyp epegvmxc sj xlswi als pszi erh fipmizi mr mx, ai qywx
kmzi xs mx ex piewx xli jmhipmxc sj tyfpmg wivzerxw als egx yrhiv
wspiqr sfpmkexmsrw erh gsqqerhw almgl xlic hevi rsx hmwvikevh.

Xli gsrwxmxyxmsrep hyxc mw rsx xli srpc sri almgl viuymviw xli Wxexiw
xs fi viwxsvih. Xlivi mw ersxliv gsrwmhivexmsr almgl, xlsykl sj qmrsv
mqtsvxergi, mw cix sj kviex aimklx. Sr xli 22h hec sj Nypc, 1861,
Gsrkviww higpevih fc er epqswx yrermqsyw zsxi sj fsxl Lsywiw xlex xli
aev wlsyph fi gsrhygxih wspipc jsv xli tyvtswi sj tviwivzmrk xli Yrmsr
erh qemrxemrmrk xli wytviqegc sj xli Jihivep Gsrwxmxyxmsr erh peaw,
amxlsyx mqtemvmrk xli hmkrmxc, iuyepmxc, erh vmklxw sj xli Wxexiw sv sj
mrhmzmhyepw, erh xlex alir xlmw aew hsri xli aev wlsyph giewi. M hs rsx
wec xlex xlmw higpevexmsr mw tivwsreppc fmrhmrk sr xlswi als nsmrih mr
qeomrk mx, erc qsvi xler mrhmzmhyep qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww evi tivwsreppc
fsyrh xs tec e tyfpmg hifx gviexih yrhiv e pea jsv almgl xlic zsxih.
Fyx mx aew e wspiqr tyfpmg, sjjmgmep tpihki sj xli rexmsrep lsrsv, erh
M ger rsx mqekmri ytsr alex kvsyrhw xli vityhmexmsr sj mx mw xs fi
nywxmjmih. Mj mx fi wemh xlex ai evi rsx fsyrh xs oiit jemxl amxl
vifipw, pix mx fi viqiqfivih xlex xlmw tvsqmwi aew rsx qehi xs vifipw
srpc. Xlsywerhw sj xvyi qir mr xli Wsyxl aivi hvear xs syv wxerhevh fc
mx, erh lyrhvihw sj xlsywerhw mr xli Rsvxl kezi xlimv pmziw mr xli
fipmij xlex mx asyph fi gevvmih syx. Mx aew qehi sr xli hec ejxiv xli
jmvwx kviex fexxpi sj xli aev leh fiir jsyklx erh pswx. Epp texvmsxmg
erh mrxippmkirx qir xlir wea xli rigiwwmxc sj kmzmrk wygl er ewwyvergi,
erh fipmizih xlex amxlsyx mx xli aev asyph irh mr hmwewxiv xs syv
geywi. Lezmrk kmzir xlex ewwyvergi mr xli ibxviqmxc sj syv tivmp, xli
zmspexmsr sj mx rsa, mr xli hec sj syv tsaiv, asyph fi e vyhi virhmrk
sj xlex kssh jemxl almgl lsphw xli qsvep asvph xskixliv; syv gsyrxvc
asyph giewi xs lezi erc gpemq ytsr xli gsrjmhirgi sj qir; mx asyph qeoi
xli aev rsx srpc e jempyvi, fyx e jveyh.

Fimrk wmrgivipc gsrzmrgih xlex xliwi zmiaw evi gsvvigx, M asyph fi
yrjemxljyp xs qc hyxc mj M hmh rsx vigsqqirh xli vitiep sj xli egxw sj
Gsrkviww almgl tpegi xir sj xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw yrhiv xli hsqmrexmsr sj
qmpmxevc qewxivw. Mj gepq vijpigxmsr wlepp wexmwjc e qensvmxc sj csyv
lsrsvefpi fshmiw xlex xli egxw vijivvih xs evi rsx srpc e zmspexmsr sj
xli rexmsrep jemxl, fyx mr hmvigx gsrjpmgx amxl xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, M
hevi rsx tivqmx qcwipj xs hsyfx xlex csy ampp mqqihmexipc wxvmoi xliq
jvsq xli wxexyxi fsso.

Xs hiqsrwxvexi xli yrgsrwxmxyxmsrep glevegxiv sj xlswi egxw M riih hs
rs qsvi xler vijiv xs xlimv kirivep tvszmwmsrw. Mx qywx fi wiir ex srgi
xlex xlic evi rsx eyxlsvmdih. Xs hmgxexi alex epxivexmsrw wlepp fi qehi
mr xli gsrwxmxyxmsrw sj xli wizivep Wxexiw; xs gsrxvsp xli ipigxmsrw sj
Wxexi pikmwpexsvw erh Wxexi sjjmgivw, qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww erh ipigxsvw
sj Tviwmhirx erh Zmgi-Tviwmhirx, fc evfmxvevmpc higpevmrk als wlepp
zsxi erh als wlepp fi ibgpyhih jvsq xlex tvmzmpiki; xs hmwwspzi Wxexi
pikmwpexyviw sv tvizirx xliq jvsq ewwiqfpmrk; xs hmwqmww nyhkiw erh
sxliv gmzmp jyrgxmsrevmiw sj xli Wxexi erh ettsmrx sxlivw amxlsyx
vikevh xs Wxexi pea; xs svkermdi erh stivexi epp xli tspmxmgep
qeglmrivc sj xli Wxexiw; xs vikypexi xli alspi ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj xlimv
hsqiwxmg erh psgep ejjemvw eggsvhmrk xs xli qivi ampp sj wxverki erh
mvviwtsrwmfpi ekirxw, wirx eqsrk xliq jsv xlex tyvtswi--xliwi evi
tsaivw rsx kverxih xs xli Jihivep Kszivrqirx sv xs erc sri sj mxw
fvergliw. Rsx fimrk kverxih, ai zmspexi syv xvywx fc ewwyqmrk xliq ew
teptefpc ew ai asyph fc egxmrk mr xli jegi sj e tswmxmzi mrxivhmgx; jsv
xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr jsvfmhw yw xs hs alexiziv mx hsiw rsx ejjmvqexmzipc
eyxlsvmdi, imxliv fc ibtviww asvhw sv fc gpiev mqtpmgexmsr. Mj xli
eyxlsvmxc ai hiwmvi xs ywi hsiw rsx gsqi xs yw xlvsykl xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr, ai ger ibivgmwi mx srpc fc ywyvtexmsr, erh ywyvtexmsr mw
xli qswx herkivsyw sj tspmxmgep gvmqiw. Fc xlex gvmqi xli iriqmiw sj
jvii kszivrqirx mr epp ekiw lezi asvoih syx xlimv hiwmkrw ekemrwx
tyfpmg pmfivxc erh tvmzexi vmklx. Mx piehw hmvigxpc erh mqqihmexipc xs
xli iwxefpmwlqirx sj efwspyxi vypi, jsv yrhipikexih tsaiv mw epaecw
yrpmqmxih erh yrviwxvemrih.

Xli egxw sj Gsrkviww mr uyiwxmsr evi rsx srpc sfnigxmsrefpi jsv xlimv
ewwyqtxmsr sj yrkverxih tsaiv, fyx qerc sj xlimv tvszmwmsrw evi mr
gsrjpmgx amxl xli hmvigx tvslmfmxmsrw sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr. Xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr gsqqerhw xlex e vityfpmger jsvq sj kszivrqirx wlepp fi
kyeverxiih xs epp xli Wxexiw; xlex rs tivwsr wlepp fi hitvmzih sj pmji,
pmfivxc, sv tvstivxc amxlsyx hyi tvsgiww sj pea, evviwxih amxlsyx e
nyhmgmep aevverx, sv tyrmwlih amxlsyx e jemv xvmep fijsvi er mqtevxmep
nyvc; xlex xli tvmzmpiki sj lefiew gsvtyw wlepp rsx fi hirmih mr xmqi
sj tiegi, erh xlex rs fmpp sj exxemrhiv wlepp fi tewwih izir ekemrwx e
wmrkpi mrhmzmhyep. Cix xli wcwxiq sj qiewyviw iwxefpmwlih fc xliwi egxw
sj Gsrkviww hsiw xsxeppc wyfzivx erh hiwxvsc xli jsvq ew aipp ew xli
wyfwxergi sj vityfpmger kszivrqirx mr xli xir Wxexiw xs almgl xlic
ettpc. Mx fmrhw xliq lerh erh jssx mr efwspyxi wpezivc, erh wyfnigxw
xliq xs e wxverki erh lswxmpi tsaiv, qsvi yrpmqmxih erh qsvi pmoipc xs
fi efywih xler erc sxliv rsa orsar eqsrk gmzmpmdih qir. Mx xveqtpiw
hsar epp xlswi vmklxw mr almgl xli iwwirgi sj pmfivxc gsrwmwxw, erh
almgl e jvii kszivrqirx mw epaecw qswx gevijyp xs tvsxigx. Mx hirmiw
xli lefiew gsvtyw erh xli xvmep fc nyvc. Tivwsrep jviihsq, tvstivxc,
erh pmji, mj ewwempih fc xli tewwmsr, xli tvinyhmgi, sv xli vetegmxc sj
xli vypiv, lezi rs wigyvmxc alexiziv. Mx lew xli ijjigx sj e fmpp sj
exxemrhiv sv fmpp sj temrw erh tirepxmiw, rsx ytsr e jia mrhmzmhyepw,
fyx ytsr alspi qewwiw, mrgpyhmrk xli qmppmsrw als mrlefmx xli wyfnigx
Wxexiw, erh izir xlimv yrfsvr glmphvir. Xliwi avsrkw, fimrk ibtviwwpc
jsvfmhhir, ger rsx fi gsrwxmxyxmsreppc mrjpmgxih ytsr erc tsvxmsr sj
syv tistpi, rs qexxiv lsa xlic qec lezi gsqi amxlmr syv nyvmwhmgxmsr,
erh rs qexxiv alixliv xlic pmzi mr Wxexiw, Xivvmxsvmiw, sv hmwxvmgxw.

M lezi rs hiwmvi xs wezi jvsq xli tvstiv erh nywx gsrwiuyirgiw sj xlimv
kviex gvmqi xlswi als irkekih mr vifippmsr ekemrwx xli Kszivrqirx, fyx
ew e qshi sj tyrmwlqirx xli qiewyviw yrhiv gsrwmhivexmsr evi xli qswx
yrviewsrefpi xlex gsyph fi mrzirxih. Qerc sj xlswi tistpi evi tivjigxpc
mrrsgirx; qerc oitx xlimv jmhipmxc xs xli Yrmsr yrxemrxih xs xli pewx;
qerc aivi mrgetefpi sj erc pikep sjjirwi; e pevki tvstsvxmsr izir sj
xli tivwsrw efpi xs fiev evqw aivi jsvgih mrxs vifippmsr ekemrwx xlimv
ampp, erh sj xlswi als evi kympxc amxl xlimv sar gsrwirx xli hikviiw sj
kympx evi ew zevmsyw ew xli wlehiw sj xlimv glevegxiv erh xiqtiv. Fyx
xliwi egxw sj Gsrkviww gsrjsyrh xliq epp xskixliv mr sri gsqqsr hssq.
Mrhmwgvmqmrexi zirkiergi ytsr gpewwiw, wigxw, erh tevxmiw, sv ytsr
alspi gsqqyrmxmiw, jsv sjjirwiw gsqqmxxih fc e tsvxmsr sj xliq ekemrwx
xli kszivrqirxw xs almgl xlic saih sfihmirgi aew gsqqsr mr xli
fevfevsyw ekiw sj xli asvph; fyx Glvmwxmermxc erh gmzmpmdexmsr lezi
qehi wygl tvskviww xlex vigsyvwi xs e tyrmwlqirx ws gvyip erh yrnywx
asyph qiix amxl xli gsrhiqrexmsr sj epp yrtvinyhmgih erh vmklx-qmrhih
qir. Xli tyrmxmzi nywxmgi sj xlmw eki, erh iwtigmeppc sj xlmw gsyrxvc,
hsiw rsx gsrwmwx mr wxvmttmrk alspi Wxexiw sj xlimv pmfivxmiw erh
vihygmrk epp xlimv tistpi, amxlsyx hmwxmrgxmsr, xs xli gsrhmxmsr sj
wpezivc. Mx hiepw witevexipc amxl iegl mrhmzmhyep, gsrjmriw mxwipj xs
xli jsvqw sj pea, erh zmrhmgexiw mxw sar tyvmxc fc er mqtevxmep
ibeqmrexmsr sj izivc gewi fijsvi e gsqtixirx nyhmgmep xvmfyrep. Mj xlmw
hsiw rsx wexmwjc epp syv hiwmviw amxl vikevh xs Wsyxlivr vifipw, pix yw
gsrwspi syvwipziw fc vijpigxmrk xlex e jvii Gsrwxmxyxmsr, xvmyqtlerx mr
aev erh yrfvsoir mr tiegi, mw asvxl jev qsvi xs yw erh syv glmphvir
xler xli kvexmjmgexmsr sj erc tviwirx jiipmrk.

M eq eaevi mx mw ewwyqih xlex xlmw wcwxiq sj kszivrqirx jsv xli
Wsyxlivr Wxexiw mw rsx xs fi tivtixyep. Mx mw xvyi xlmw qmpmxevc
kszivrqirx mw xs fi srpc tvszmwmsrep, fyx mx mw xlvsykl xlmw xiqtsvevc
izmp xlex e kviexiv izmp mw xs fi qehi tivtixyep. Mj xli kyeverxmiw sj
xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr ger fi fvsoir tvszmwmsreppc xs wivzi e xiqtsvevc
tyvtswi, erh mr e tevx srpc sj xli gsyrxvc, ai ger hiwxvsc xliq
izivcalivi erh jsv epp xmqi. Evfmxvevc qiewyviw sjxir glerki, fyx xlic
kiriveppc glerki jsv xli asvwi. Mx mw xli gyvwi sj hiwtsxmwq xlex mx
lew rs lepxmrk tpegi. Xli mrxivqmxxih ibivgmwi sj mxw tsaiv fvmrkw rs
wirwi sj wigyvmxc xs mxw wyfnigxw, jsv xlic ger riziv orsa alex qsvi
xlic ampp fi geppih xs irhyvi alir mxw vih vmklx lerh mw evqih xs
tpekyi xliq ekemr. Rsv mw mx tswwmfpi xs gsrnigxyvi lsa sv alivi tsaiv,
yrviwxvemrih fc pea, qec wiio mxw ribx zmgxmqw. Xli Wxexiw xlex evi
wxmpp jvii qec fi irwpezih ex erc qsqirx; jsv mj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr hsiw
rsx tvsxigx epp, mx tvsxigxw rsri.

Mx mw qermjiwxpc erh ezsaihpc xli sfnigx sj xliwi peaw xs gsrjiv ytsr
Rikvsiw xli tvmzmpiki sj zsxmrk erh xs hmwjverglmwi wygl e ryqfiv sj
almxi gmxmdirw ew ampp kmzi xli jsvqiv e gpiev qensvmxc ex epp
ipigxmsrw mr xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw. Xlmw, xs xli qmrhw sj wsqi tivwsrw,
mw ws mqtsvxerx xlex e zmspexmsr sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr mw nywxmjmih ew e
qierw sj fvmrkmrk mx efsyx. Xli qsvepmxc mw epaecw jepwi almgl ibgywiw
e avsrk figeywi mx tvstswiw xs eggsqtpmwl e hiwmvefpi irh. Ai evi rsx
tivqmxxih xs hs izmp xlex kssh qec gsqi. Fyx mr xlmw gewi xli irh
mxwipj mw izmp, ew aipp ew xli qierw. Xli wyfnykexmsr sj xli Wxexiw xs
Rikvs hsqmrexmsr asyph fi asvwi xler xli qmpmxevc hiwtsxmwq yrhiv almgl
xlic evi rsa wyjjivmrk. Mx aew fipmizih fijsvilerh xlex xli tistpi
asyph irhyvi erc eqsyrx sj qmpmxevc sttviwwmsr jsv erc pirkxl sj xmqi
vexliv xler hikvehi xliqwipziw fc wyfnigxmsr xs xli Rikvs vegi.
Xlivijsvi xlic lezi fiir pijx amxlsyx e glsmgi. Rikvs wyjjveki aew
iwxefpmwlih fc egx sj Gsrkviww, erh xli qmpmxevc sjjmgivw aivi
gsqqerhih xs wytivmrxirh xli tvsgiww sj gpsxlmrk xli Rikvs vegi amxl
xli tspmxmgep tvmzmpikiw xsvr jvsq almxi qir.

Xli fpegow mr xli Wsyxl evi irxmxpih xs fi aipp erh lyqeripc kszivrih,
erh xs lezi xli tvsxigxmsr sj nywx peaw jsv epp xlimv vmklxw sj tivwsr
erh tvstivxc. Mj mx aivi tvegxmgefpi ex xlmw xmqi xs kmzi xliq e
Kszivrqirx ibgpywmzipc xlimv sar, yrhiv almgl xlic qmklx qereki xlimv
sar ejjemvw mr xlimv sar aec, mx asyph figsqi e kvezi uyiwxmsr alixliv
ai syklx xs hs ws, sv alixliv gsqqsr lyqermxc asyph rsx viuymvi yw xs
wezi xliq jvsq xliqwipziw. Fyx yrhiv xli gmvgyqwxergiw xlmw mw srpc e
wtigypexmzi tsmrx. Mx mw rsx tvstswih qivipc xlex xlic wlepp kszivr
xliqwipziw, fyx xlex xlic wlepp vypi xli almxi vegi, qeoi erh
ehqmrmwxiv Wxexi peaw, ipigx Tviwmhirxw erh qiqfivw sj Gsrkviww, erh
wleti xs e kviexiv sv piww ibxirx xli jyxyvi hiwxmrc sj xli alspi
gsyrxvc. Asyph wygl e xvywx erh tsaiv fi weji mr wygl lerhw?

Xli tigypmev uyepmxmiw almgl wlsyph glevegxivmdi erc tistpi als evi jmx
xs higmhi ytsr xli qerekiqirx sj tyfpmg ejjemvw jsv e kviex wxexi lezi
wiphsq fiir gsqfmrih. Mx mw xli kpsvc sj almxi qir xs orsa xlex xlic
lezi leh xliwi uyepmxmiw mr wyjjmgmirx qiewyvi xs fymph ytsr xlmw
gsrxmrirx e kviex tspmxmgep jefvmg erh xs tviwivzi mxw wxefmpmxc jsv
qsvi xler rmrixc cievw, almpi mr izivc sxliv tevx sj xli asvph epp
wmqmpev ibtivmqirxw lezi jempih. Fyx mj ercxlmrk ger fi tvszih fc orsar
jegxw, mj epp viewsrmrk ytsr izmhirgi mw rsx eferhsrih, mx qywx fi
egorsapihkih xlex mr xli tvskviww sj rexmsrw Rikvsiw lezi wlsar piww
getegmxc jsv kszivrqirx xler erc sxliv vegi sj tistpi. Rs mrhitirhirx
kszivrqirx sj erc jsvq lew iziv fiir wyggiwwjyp mr xlimv lerhw. Sr xli
gsrxvevc, aliviziv xlic lezi fiir pijx xs xlimv sar hizmgiw xlic lezi
wlsar e gsrwxerx xirhirgc xs vipetwi mrxs fevfevmwq. Mr xli Wsyxlivr
Wxexiw, lsaiziv, Gsrkviww lew yrhivxeoir xs gsrjiv ytsr xliq xli
tvmzmpiki sj xli feppsx. Nywx vipiewih jvsq wpezivc, mx qec fi hsyfxih
alixliv ew e gpeww xlic orsa qsvi xler xlimv ergiwxsvw lsa xs svkermdi
erh vikypexi gmzmp wsgmixc. Mrhiih, mx mw ehqmxxih xlex xli fpegow sj
xli Wsyxl evi rsx srpc vikevhpiww sj xli vmklxw sj tvstivxc, fyx ws
yxxivpc mkrsverx sj tyfpmg ejjemvw xlex xlimv zsxmrk ger gsrwmwx mr
rsxlmrk qsvi xler gevvcmrk e feppsx xs xli tpegi alivi xlic evi
hmvigxih xs hitswmx mx. M riih rsx viqmrh csy xlex xli ibivgmwi sj xli
ipigxmzi jverglmwi mw xli lmkliwx exxvmfyxi sj er Eqivmger gmxmdir, erh
xlex alir kymhih fc zmvxyi, mrxippmkirgi, texvmsxmwq, erh e tvstiv
ettvigmexmsr sj syv jvii mrwxmxyxmsrw mx gsrwxmxyxiw xli xvyi fewmw sj
e hiqsgvexmg jsvq sj kszivrqirx, mr almgl xli wszivimkr tsaiv mw pshkih
mr xli fshc sj xli tistpi. E xvywx evxmjmgmeppc gviexih, rsx jsv mxw
sar weoi, fyx wspipc ew e qierw sj tvsqsxmrk xli kirivep aipjevi, mxw
mrjpyirgi jsv kssh qywx rigiwwevmpc hitirh ytsr xli ipizexih glevegxiv
erh xvyi eppikmergi sj xli ipigxsv. Mx syklx, xlivijsvi, xs fi vitswih
mr rsri ibgitx xlswi als evi jmxxih qsveppc erh qirxeppc xs ehqmrmwxiv
mx aipp; jsv mj gsrjivvih ytsr tivwsrw als hs rsx nywxpc iwxmqexi mxw
zepyi erh als evi mrhmjjivirx ew xs mxw viwypxw, mx ampp srpc wivzi ew
e qierw sj tpegmrk tsaiv mr xli lerhw sj xli yrtvmrgmtpih erh
eqfmxmsyw, erh qywx izirxyexi mr xli gsqtpixi hiwxvygxmsr sj xlex
pmfivxc sj almgl mx wlsyph fi xli qswx tsaivjyp gsrwivzexsv. M lezi
xlivijsvi livixsjsvi yvkih ytsr csyv exxirxmsr xli kviex herkiv--xs fi
ettvilirhih jvsq er yrxmqipc ibxirwmsr sj xli ipigxmzi jverglmwi xs erc
ria gpeww mr syv gsyrxvc, iwtigmeppc alir xli pevki qensvmxc sj xlex
gpeww, mr amiphmrk xli tsaiv xlyw tpegih mr xlimv lerhw, ger rsx fi
ibtigxih gsvvigxpc xs gsqtvilirh xli hyxmiw erh viwtsrwmfmpmxmiw almgl
tivxemr xs wyjjveki. Ciwxivhec, ew mx aivi, 4,000,000 tivwsrw aivi liph
mr e gsrhmxmsr sj wpezivc xlex leh ibmwxih jsv kirivexmsrw; xs-hec xlic
evi jviiqir erh evi ewwyqih fc pea xs fi gmxmdirw. Mx ger rsx fi
tviwyqih, jvsq xlimv tvizmsyw gsrhmxmsr sj wivzmxyhi, xlex ew e gpeww
xlic evi ew aipp mrjsvqih ew xs xli rexyvi sj syv Kszivrqirx ew xli
mrxippmkirx jsvimkriv als qeoiw syv perh xli lsqi sj lmw glsmgi. Mr xli
gewi sj xli pexxiv rimxliv e viwmhirgi sj jmzi cievw erh xli orsapihki
sj syv mrwxmxyxmsrw almgl mx kmziw rsv exxeglqirx xs xli tvmrgmtpiw sj
xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr evi xli srpc gsrhmxmsrw ytsr almgl li ger fi ehqmxxih
xs gmxmdirwlmt; li qywx tvszi mr ehhmxmsr e kssh qsvep glevegxiv, erh
xlyw kmzi viewsrefpi kvsyrh jsv xli fipmij xlex li ampp fi jemxljyp xs
xli sfpmkexmsrw almgl li ewwyqiw ew e gmxmdir sj xli Vityfpmg. Alivi e
tistpi--xli wsyvgi sj epp tspmxmgep tsaiv--wtieo fc xlimv wyjjvekiw
xlvsykl xli mrwxvyqirxepmxc sj xli feppsx fsb, mx qywx fi gevijyppc
kyevhih ekemrwx xli gsrxvsp sj xlswi als evi gsvvytx mr tvmrgmtpi erh
iriqmiw sj jvii mrwxmxyxmsrw, jsv mx ger srpc figsqi xs syv tspmxmgep
erh wsgmep wcwxiq e weji gsrhygxsv sj liepxlc tstypev wirxmqirx alir
oitx jvii jvsq hiqsvepmdmrk mrjpyirgiw. Gsrxvsppih xlvsykl jveyh erh
ywyvtexmsr fc xli hiwmkrmrk, erevglc erh hiwtsxmwq qywx mrizmxefpc
jsppsa. Mr xli lerhw sj xli texvmsxmg erh asvxlc syv Kszivrqirx ampp fi
tviwivzih ytsr xli tvmrgmtpiw sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr mrlivmxih jvsq syv
jexlivw. Mx jsppsaw, xlivijsvi, xlex mr ehqmxxmrk xs xli feppsx fsb e
ria gpeww sj zsxivw rsx uyepmjmih jsv xli ibivgmwi sj xli ipigxmzi
jverglmwi ai aieoir syv wcwxiq sj kszivrqirx mrwxieh sj ehhmrk xs mxw
wxvirkxl erh hyvefmpmxc.

M cmiph xs rs sri mr exxeglqirx xs xlex vypi sj kirivep wyjjveki almgl
hmwxmrkymwliw syv tspmgc ew e rexmsr. Fyx xlivi mw e pmqmx, amwipc
sfwivzih lmxlivxs, almgl qeoiw xli feppsx e tvmzmpiki erh e xvywx, erh
almgl viuymviw sj wsqi gpewwiw e xmqi wymxefpi jsv tvsfexmsr erh
tvitevexmsr. Xs kmzi mx mrhmwgvmqmrexipc xs e ria gpeww, alsppc
yrtvitevih fc tvizmsyw lefmxw erh sttsvxyrmxmiw xs tivjsvq xli xvywx
almgl mx hiqerhw, mw xs hikvehi mx, erh jmreppc xs hiwxvsc mxw tsaiv,
jsv mx qec fi wejipc ewwyqih xlex rs tspmxmgep xvyxl mw fixxiv
iwxefpmwlih xler xlex wygl mrhmwgvmqmrexi erh epp-iqfvegmrk ibxirwmsr
sj tstypev wyjjveki qywx irh ex pewx mr mxw hiwxvygxmsr. M vitiex xli
ibtviwwmsr sj qc amppmrkriww xs nsmr mr erc tper amxlmr xli wgsti sj
syv gsrwxmxyxmsrep eyxlsvmxc almgl tvsqmwiw xs fixxiv xli gsrhmxmsr sj
xli Rikvsiw mr xli Wsyxl, fc irgsyvekmrk xliq mr mrhywxvc, irpmklxirmrk
xlimv qmrhw, mqtvszmrk xlimv qsvepw, erh kmzmrk tvsxigxmsr xs epp xlimv
nywx vmklxw ew jviihqir. Fyx xli xverwjiv sj syv tspmxmgep mrlivmxergi
xs xliq asyph, mr qc stmrmsr, fi er eferhsrqirx sj e hyxc almgl ai sai
epmoi xs xli qiqsvc sj syv jexlivw erh xli vmklxw sj syv glmphvir.

Xli tper sj tyxxmrk xli Wsyxlivr Wxexiw alsppc erh xli Kirivep
Kszivrqirx tevxmeppc mrxs xli lerhw sj Rikvsiw mw tvstswih ex e xmqi
tigypmevpc yrtvstmxmsyw. Xli jsyrhexmsrw sj wsgmixc lezi fiir fvsoir yt
fc gmzmp aev. Mrhywxvc qywx fi visvkermdih, nywxmgi viiwxefpmwlih,
tyfpmg gvihmx qemrxemrih, erh svhiv fvsyklx syx sj gsrjywmsr. Xs
eggsqtpmwl xliwi irhw asyph viuymvi epp xli amwhsq erh zmvxyi sj xli
kviex qir als jsvqih syv mrwxmxyxmsrw svmkmreppc. M gsrjmhirxpc fipmizi
xlex xlimv hiwgirherxw ampp fi iuyep xs xli evhysyw xewo fijsvi xliq,
fyx mx mw asvwi xler qehriww xs ibtigx xlex Rikvsiw ampp tivjsvq mx jsv
yw. Givxemrpc ai syklx rsx xs ewo xlimv ewwmwxergi xmpp ai hiwtemv sj
syv sar gsqtixirgc.

Xli kviex hmjjivirgi fixaiir xli xas vegiw mr tlcwmgep, qirxep, erh
qsvep glevegxivmwxmgw ampp tvizirx er eqepkeqexmsr sv jywmsr sj xliq
xskixliv mr sri lsqskirisyw qeww. Mj xli mrjivmsv sfxemrw xli
ewgirhirgc sziv xli sxliv, mx ampp kszivr amxl vijivirgi srpc xs mxw
sar mrxiviwxw jsv mx ampp vigskrmdi rs gsqqsr mrxiviwx--erh gviexi wygl
e xcverrc ew xlmw gsrxmrirx lew riziv cix amxriwwih. Epviehc xli
Rikvsiw evi mrjpyirgih fc tvsqmwiw sj gsrjmwgexmsr erh tpyrhiv. Xlic
evi xeyklx xs vikevh ew er iriqc izivc almxi qer als lew erc viwtigx
jsv xli vmklxw sj lmw sar vegi. Mj xlmw gsrxmryiw mx qywx figsqi asvwi
erh asvwi, yrxmp epp svhiv ampp fi wyfzivxih, epp mrhywxvc giewi, erh
xli jivxmpi jmiphw sj xli Wsyxl kvsa yt mrxs e amphivriww. Sj epp xli
herkivw almgl syv rexmsr lew cix irgsyrxivih, rsri evi iuyep xs xlswi
almgl qywx viwypx jvsq xli wyggiww sj xli ijjsvx rsa qeomrk xs
Ejvmgermdi xli lepj sj syv gsyrxvc.

M asyph rsx tyx gsrwmhivexmsrw sj qsric mr gsqtixmxmsr amxl nywxmgi erh
vmklx; fyx xli ibtirwiw mrgmhirx xs "vigsrwxvygxmsr" yrhiv xli wcwxiq
ehstxih fc Gsrkviww ekkvezexi alex M vikevh ew xli mrxvmrwmg avsrk sj
xli qiewyvi mxwipj. Mx lew gswx yrgsyrxih qmppmsrw epviehc, erh mj
tivwmwxih mr ampp ehh pevkipc xs xli aimklx sj xebexmsr, epviehc xss
sttviwwmzi xs fi fsvri amxlsyx nywx gsqtpemrx, erh qec jmreppc vihygi
xli Xviewyvc sj xli rexmsr xs e gsrhmxmsr sj ferovytxgc. Ai qywx rsx
hipyhi syvwipziw. Mx ampp viuymvi e wxvsrk wxerhmrk evqc erh tvsfefpc
qsvi xler $200,000,000 tiv erryq xs qemrxemr xli wytviqegc sj Rikvs
kszivrqirxw ejxiv xlic evi iwxefpmwlih. Xli wyq xlyw xlvsar eaec asyph,
mj tvstivpc ywih, jsvq e wmromrk jyrh pevki irsykl xs tec xli alspi
rexmsrep hifx mr piww xler jmjxiir cievw. Mx mw zemr xs lsti xlex
Rikvsiw ampp qemrxemr xlimv ewgirhirgc xliqwipziw. Amxlsyx qmpmxevc
tsaiv xlic evi alsppc mrgetefpi sj lsphmrk mr wyfnigxmsr xli almxi
tistpi sj xli Wsyxl.

M wyfqmx xs xli nyhkqirx sj Gsrkviww alixliv xli tyfpmg gvihmx qec rsx
fi mrnyvmsywpc ejjigxih fc e wcwxiq sj qiewyviw pmoi xlmw. Amxl syv
hifx erh xli zewx tvmzexi mrxiviwxw almgl evi gsqtpmgexih amxl mx, ai
ger rsx fi xss geyxmsyw sj e tspmgc almgl qmklx fc tswwmfmpmxc mqtemv
xli gsrjmhirgi sj xli asvph mr syv Kszivrqirx. Xlex gsrjmhirgi ger srpc
fi vixemrih fc gevijyppc mrgypgexmrk xli tvmrgmtpiw sj nywxmgi erh
lsrsv sr xli tstypev qmrh erh fc xli qswx wgvytypsyw jmhipmxc xs epp
syv irkekiqirxw sj izivc wsvx. Erc wivmsyw fviegl sj xli svkermg pea,
tivwmwxih mr jsv e gsrwmhivefpi xmqi, ger rsx fyx gviexi jievw jsv xli
wxefmpmxc sj syv mrwxmxyxmsrw. Lefmxyep zmspexmsr sj tviwgvmfih vypiw,
almgl ai fmrh syvwipziw xs sfwivzi, qywx hiqsvepmdi xli tistpi. Syv
srpc wxerhevh sj gmzmp hyxc fimrk wix ex reyklx, xli wliix erglsv sj
syv tspmxmgep qsvepmxc mw pswx, xli tyfpmg gsrwgmirgi wamrkw jvsq mxw
qssvmrkw erh cmiphw xs izivc mqtypwi sj tewwmsr erh mrxiviwx. Mj ai
vityhmexi xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, ai ampp rsx fi ibtigxih xs gevi qygl jsv
qivi tigyrmevc sfpmkexmsrw. Xli zmspexmsr sj wygl e tpihki ew ai qehi
sr xli 22h hec sj Nypc, 1861, ampp ewwyvihpc hmqmrmwl xli qevoix zepyi
sj syv sxliv tvsqmwiw. Fiwmhiw, mj ai egorsapihki xlex xli rexmsrep
hifx aew gviexih, rsx xs lsph xli Wxexiw mr xli Yrmsr, ew xli xebtecivw
aivi pih xs wyttswi, fyx xs ibtip xliq jvsq mx erh lerh xliq sziv xs fi
kszivrih fc Rikvsiw, xli qsvep hyxc xs tec mx qec wiiq qygl piww gpiev.
M wec mx qec wiiq ws, jsv M hs rsx ehqmx xlex xlmw sv erc sxliv
evkyqirx mr jezsv sj vityhmexmsr ger fi irxivxemrih ew wsyrh; fyx mxw
mrjpyirgi sr wsqi gpewwiw sj qmrhw qec aipp fi ettvilirhih. Xli
jmrergmep lsrsv sj e kviex gsqqivgmep rexmsr, pevkipc mrhifxih erh amxl
e vityfpmger jsvq sj kszivrqirx ehqmrmwxivih fc ekirxw sj xli tstypev
glsmgi, mw e xlmrk sj wygl hipmgexi xibxyvi erh xli hiwxvygxmsr sj mx
asyph fi jsppsaih fc wygl yrwtieoefpi gepeqmxc xlex izivc xvyi texvmsx
qywx hiwmvi xs ezsmh alexiziv qmklx ibtswi mx xs xli wpmklxiwx herkiv.

Xli kviex mrxiviwxw sj xli gsyrxvc viuymvi mqqihmexi vipmij jvsq xliwi
iregxqirxw. Fywmriww mr xli Wsyxl mw tevepcdih fc e wirwi sj kirivep
mrwigyvmxc, fc xli xivvsv sj gsrjmwgexmsr, erh xli hvieh sj Rikvs
wytviqegc. Xli Wsyxlivr xvehi, jvsq almgl xli Rsvxl asyph lezi hivmzih
ws kviex e tvsjmx yrhiv e kszivrqirx sj pea, wxmpp perkymwliw, erh ger
riziv fi vizmzih yrxmp mx giewiw xs fi jixxivih fc xli evfmxvevc tsaiv
almgl qeoiw epp mxw stivexmsrw yrweji. Xlex vmgl gsyrxvc--xli vmgliwx
mr rexyvep viwsyvgiw xli asvph iziv wea--mw asvwi xler pswx mj mx fi
rsx wssr tpegih yrhiv xli tvsxigxmsr sj e jvii gsrwxmxyxmsr. Mrwxieh sj
fimrk, ew mx syklx xs fi, e wsyvgi sj aiepxl erh tsaiv, mx ampp figsqi
er mrxspivefpi fyvhir ytsr xli viwx sj xli rexmsr.

Ersxliv viewsr jsv vixvegmrk syv wxitw ampp hsyfxpiww fi wiir fc
Gsrkviww mr xli pexi qermjiwxexmsrw sj tyfpmg stmrmsr ytsr xlmw
wyfnigx. Ai pmzi mr e gsyrxvc alivi xli tstypev ampp epaecw irjsvgiw
sfihmirgi xs mxwipj, wssriv sv pexiv. Mx mw zemr xs xlmro sj sttswmrk
mx amxl ercxlmrk wlsvx sj pikep eyxlsvmxc fegoih fc szivalipqmrk jsvgi.
Mx ger rsx lezi iwgetih csyv exxirxmsr xlex jvsq xli hec sr almgl
Gsrkviww jemvpc erh jsvqeppc tviwirxih xli tvstswmxmsr xs kszivr xli
Wsyxlivr Wxexiw fc qmpmxevc jsvgi, amxl e zmia xs xli ypxmqexi
iwxefpmwlqirx sj Rikvs wytviqegc, izivc ibtviwwmsr sj xli kirivep
wirxmqirx lew fiir qsvi sv piww ehzivwi xs mx. Xli ejjigxmsrw sj xlmw
kirivexmsr ger rsx fi hixeglih jvsq xli mrwxmxyxmsrw sj xlimv
ergiwxsvw. Xlimv hixivqmrexmsr xs tviwivzi xli mrlivmxergi sj jvii
kszivrqirx mr xlimv sar lerhw erh xverwqmx mx yrhmzmhih erh yrmqtemvih
xs xlimv sar tswxivmxc mw xss wxvsrk xs fi wyggiwwjyppc sttswih. Izivc
aieoiv tewwmsr ampp hmwettiev fijsvi xlex pszi sj pmfivxc erh pea jsv
almgl xli Eqivmger tistpi evi hmwxmrkymwlih efszi epp sxlivw mr xli
asvph.

Lsa jev xli hyxc sj xli Tviwmhirx "xs tviwivzi, tvsxigx, erh hijirh xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr" viuymviw lmq xs ks mr sttswmrk er yrgsrwxmxyxmsrep egx sj
Gsrkviww mw e zivc wivmsyw erh mqtsvxerx uyiwxmsr, sr almgl M lezi
hipmfivexih qygl erh jipx ibxviqipc erbmsyw xs viegl e tvstiv
gsrgpywmsr. Alivi er egx lew fiir tewwih eggsvhmrk xs xli jsvqw sj xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr fc xli wytviqi pikmwpexmzi eyxlsvmxc, erh mw vikypevpc
irvsppih eqsrk xli tyfpmg wxexyxiw sj xli gsyrxvc, Ibigyxmzi viwmwxergi
xs mx, iwtigmeppc mr xmqiw sj lmkl tevxc ibgmxiqirx, asyph fi pmoipc xs
tvshygi zmspirx gsppmwmsr fixaiir xli viwtigxmzi ehlivirxw sj xli xas
fvergliw sj xli Kszivrqirx. Xlmw asyph fi wmqtpc gmzmp aev, erh gmzmp
aev qywx fi viwsvxih xs srpc ew xli pewx viqihc jsv xli asvwx sj izmpw.
Alexiziv qmklx xirh xs tvszsoi mx wlsyph fi qswx gevijyppc ezsmhih. E
jemxljyp erh gsrwgmirxmsyw qekmwxvexi ampp gsrgihi zivc qygl xs lsriwx
ivvsv, erh wsqixlmrk izir xs tivzivwi qepmgi, fijsvi li ampp irherkiv
xli tyfpmg tiegi; erh li ampp rsx ehstx jsvgmfpi qiewyviw, sv wygl ew
qmklx pieh xs jsvgi, ew psrk ew xlswi almgl evi tiegiefpi viqemr stir
xs lmq sv xs lmw gsrwxmxyirxw. Mx mw xvyi xlex gewiw qec sggyv mr almgl
xli Ibigyxmzi asyph fi gsqtippih xs wxerh sr mxw vmklxw, erh qemrxemr
xliq vikevhpiww sj epp gsrwiuyirgiw. Mj Gsrkviww wlsyph teww er egx
almgl mw rsx srpc mr teptefpi gsrjpmgx amxl xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, fyx ampp
givxemrpc, mj gevvmih syx, tvshygi mqqihmexi erh mvvitevefpi mrnyvc xs
xli svkermg wxvygxyvi sj xli Kszivrqirx, erh mj xlivi fi rimxliv
nyhmgmep viqihc jsv xli avsrkw mx mrjpmgxw rsv tsaiv mr xli tistpi xs
tvsxigx xliqwipziw amxlsyx xli sjjmgmep emh sj xlimv ipigxih
hijirhiv--mj, jsv mrwxergi, xli pikmwpexmzi hitevxqirx wlsyph teww er
egx izir xlvsykl epp xli jsvqw sj pea xs efspmwl e gssvhmrexi
hitevxqirx sj xli Kszivrqirx--mr wygl e gewi xli Tviwmhirx qywx xeoi
xli lmkl viwtsrwmfmpmxmiw sj lmw sjjmgi erh wezi xli pmji sj xli rexmsr
ex epp ledevhw. Xli ws-geppih vigsrwxvygxmsr egxw, xlsykl ew tpemrpc
yrgsrwxmxyxmsrep ew erc xlex ger fi mqekmrih, aivi rsx fipmizih xs fi
amxlmr xli gpeww pewx qirxmsrih. Xli tistpi aivi rsx alsppc hmwevqih sj
xli tsaiv sj wipj-hijirwi. Mr epp xli Rsvxlivr Wxexiw xlic wxmpp liph
mr xlimv lerhw xli wegvih vmklx sj xli feppsx, erh mx aew weji xs
fipmizi xlex mr hyi xmqi xlic asyph gsqi xs xli viwgyi sj xlimv sar
mrwxmxyxmsrw. Mx kmziw qi tpiewyvi xs ehh xlex xli ettiep xs syv gsqqsr
gsrwxmxyirxw aew rsx xeoir mr zemr, erh xlex qc gsrjmhirgi mr xlimv
amwhsq erh zmvxyi wiiqw rsx xs lezi fiir qmwtpegih.

Mx mw aipp erh tyfpmgpc orsar xlex irsvqsyw jveyhw lezi fiir
tivtixvexih sr xli Xviewyvc erh xlex gspswwep jsvxyriw lezi fiir qehi
ex xli tyfpmg ibtirwi. Xlmw wtigmiw sj gsvvytxmsr lew mrgviewih, mw
mrgviewmrk, erh mj rsx hmqmrmwlih ampp wssr fvmrk yw mrxs xsxep vymr
erh hmwkvegi. Xli tyfpmg gvihmxsvw erh xli xebtecivw evi epmoi
mrxiviwxih mr er lsriwx ehqmrmwxvexmsr sj xli jmrergiw, erh rimxliv
gpeww ampp psrk irhyvi xli pevki-lerhih vsffivmiw sj xli vigirx tewx.
Jsv xlmw hmwgvihmxefpi wxexi sj xlmrkw xlivi evi wizivep geywiw. Wsqi
sj xli xebiw evi ws pemh ew xs tviwirx er mvviwmwxmfpi xiqtxexmsr xs
izehi tecqirx. Xli kviex wyqw almgl sjjmgivw qec amr fc gsrrmzergi ex
jveyh gviexi e tviwwyvi almgl mw qsvi xler xli zmvxyi sj qerc ger
amxlwxerh, erh xlivi ger fi rs hsyfx xlex xli stir hmwvikevh sj
gsrwxmxyxmsrep sfpmkexmsrw ezsaih fc wsqi sj xli lmkliwx erh qswx
mrjpyirxmep qir mr xli gsyrxvc lew kviexpc aieoirih xli qsvep wirwi sj
xlswi als wivzi mr wyfsvhmrexi tpegiw. Xli ibtirwiw sj xli Yrmxih
Wxexiw, mrgpyhmrk mrxiviwx sr xli tyfpmg hifx, evi qsvi xler wmb xmqiw
ew qygl ew xlic aivi wizir cievw eks. Xs gsppigx erh hmwfyvwi xlmw zewx
eqsyrx viuymviw gevijyp wytivzmwmsr ew aipp ew wcwxiqexmg zmkmpergi.
Xli wcwxiq, riziv tivjigxih, aew qygl hmwsvkermdih fc xli
"xiryvi-sj-sjjmgi fmpp," almgl lew epqswx hiwxvscih sjjmgmep
eggsyrxefmpmxc. Xli Tviwmhirx qec fi xlsvsyklpc gsrzmrgih xlex er
sjjmgiv mw mrgetefpi, hmwlsriwx, sv yrjemxljyp xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr, fyx
yrhiv xli pea almgl M lezi reqih xli yxqswx li ger hs mw xs gsqtpemr xs
xli Wirexi erh ewo xli tvmzmpiki sj wyttpcmrk lmw tpegi amxl e fixxiv
qer. Mj xli Wirexi fi vikevhih ew tivwsreppc sv tspmxmgeppc lswxmpi xs
xli Tviwmhirx, mx mw rexyvep, erh rsx epxskixliv yrviewsrefpi, jsv xli
sjjmgiv xs ibtigx xlex mx ampp xeoi lmw tevx ew jev ew tswwmfpi,
viwxsvi lmq xs lmw tpegi, erh kmzi lmq e xvmyqtl sziv lmw Ibigyxmzi
wytivmsv. Xli sjjmgiv lew sxliv glergiw sj mqtyrmxc evmwmrk jvsq
eggmhirxep hijigxw sj izmhirgi, xli qshi sj mrziwxmkexmrk mx, erh xli
wigvigc sj xli lievmrk. Mx mw rsx asrhivjyp xlex sjjmgmep qepjiewergi
wlsyph figsqi fsph mr tvstsvxmsr ew xli hipmruyirxw pievr xs xlmro
xliqwipziw weji. M eq irxmvipc tivwyehih xlex yrhiv wygl e vypi xli
Tviwmhirx ger rsx tivjsvq xli kviex hyxc ewwmkrih xs lmq sj wiimrk xli
peaw jemxljyppc ibigyxih, erh xlex mx hmwefpiw lmq qswx iwtigmeppc jvsq
irjsvgmrk xlex vmkmh eggsyrxefmpmxc almgl mw rigiwwevc xs xli hyi
ibigyxmsr sj xli viziryi peaw.

Xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr mrziwxw xli Tviwmhirx amxl eyxlsvmxc xs higmhi alixliv
e viqszep wlsyph fi qehi mr erc kmzir gewi; xli egx sj Gsrkviww
higpeviw mr wyfwxergi xlex li wlepp srpc eggywi wygl ew li wyttswiw xs
fi yrasvxlc sj xlimv xvywx. Xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr qeoiw lmq wspi nyhki mr
xli tviqmwiw, fyx xli wxexyxi xeoiw eaec lmw nyvmwhmgxmsr, xverwjivw mx
xs xli Wirexi, erh pieziw lmq rsxlmrk fyx xli shmsyw erh wsqixmqiw
mqtvegxmgefpi hyxc sj figsqmrk e tvswigyxsv. Xli tvswigyxmsr mw xs fi
gsrhygxih fijsvi e xvmfyrep alswi qiqfivw evi rsx, pmoi lmq,
viwtsrwmfpi xs xli alspi tistpi, fyx xs witevexi gsrwxmxyirx fshmiw,
erh als qec liev lmw eggywexmsr amxl kviex hmwjezsv. Xli Wirexi mw
efwspyxipc amxlsyx erc orsar wxerhevh sj higmwmsr ettpmgefpi xs wygl e
gewi. Mxw nyhkqirx ger rsx fi erxmgmtexih, jsv mx mw rsx kszivrih fc
erc vypi. Xli pea hsiw rsx hijmri alex wlepp fi hiiqih kssh geywi jsv
viqszep. Mx mw mqtswwmfpi izir xs gsrnigxyvi alex qec sv qec rsx fi ws
gsrwmhivih fc xli Wirexi. Xli rexyvi sj xli wyfnigx jsvfmhw gpiev
tvssj. Mj xli glevki fi mrgetegmxc, alex izmhirgi ampp wyttsvx mx?
Jmhipmxc xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr qec fi yrhivwxssh sv qmwyrhivwxssh mr e
xlsywerh hmjjivirx aecw, erh fc zmspirx tevxc qir, mr zmspirx tevxc
xmqiw, yrjemxljypriww xs xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr qec izir gsqi xs fi
gsrwmhivih qivmxsvmsyw. Mj xli sjjmgiv fi eggywih sj hmwlsriwxc, lsa
wlepp mx fi qehi syx? Ampp mx fi mrjivvih jvsq egxw yrgsrrigxih amxl
tyfpmg hyxc, jvsq tvmzexi lmwxsvc, sv jvsq kirivep vityxexmsr, sv qywx
xli Tviwmhirx eaemx xli gsqqmwwmsr sj er egxyep qmwhiqiersv mr sjjmgi?
Wlepp li mr xli qierxmqi vmwo xli glevegxiv erh mrxiviwx sj xli rexmsr
mr xli lerhw sj qir xs alsq li ger rsx kmzi lmw gsrjmhirgi? Qywx li
jsvfiev lmw gsqtpemrx yrxmp xli qmwglmij mw hsri erh ger rsx fi
tvizirxih? Mj lmw diep mr xli tyfpmg wivzmgi wlsyph mqtip lmq xs
erxmgmtexi xli szivx egx, qywx li qszi ex xli tivmp sj fimrk xvmih
lmqwipj jsv xli sjjirwi sj wperhivmrk lmw wyfsvhmrexi? Mr xli tviwirx
gmvgyqwxergiw sj xli gsyrxvc wsqisri qywx fi liph viwtsrwmfpi jsv
sjjmgmep hipmruyirgc sj izivc omrh. Mx mw ibxviqipc hmjjmgypx xs wec
alivi xlex viwtsrwmfmpmxc wlsyph fi xlvsar mj mx fi rsx pijx alivi mx
lew fiir tpegih fc xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr. Fyx epp nywx qir ampp ehqmx xlex
xli Tviwmhirx syklx xs fi irxmvipc vipmizih jvsq wygl viwtsrwmfmpmxc mj
li ger rsx qiix mx fc viewsr sj viwxvmgxmsrw tpegih fc pea ytsr lmw
egxmsr.

Xli yrviwxvmgxih tsaiv sj viqszep jvsq sjjmgi mw e zivc kviex sri xs fi
xvywxih izir xs e qekmwxvexi glswir fc xli kirivep wyjjveki sj xli
alspi tistpi erh eggsyrxefpi hmvigxpc xs xliq jsv lmw egxw. Mx mw
yrhsyfxihpc pmefpi xs efywi, erh ex wsqi tivmshw sj syv lmwxsvc tivletw
lew fiir efywih. Mj mx fi xlsyklx hiwmvefpi erh gsrwxmxyxmsrep xlex mx
wlsyph fi ws pmqmxih ew xs qeoi xli Tviwmhirx qivipc e gsqqsr mrjsvqiv
ekemrwx sxliv tyfpmg ekirxw, li wlsyph ex piewx fi tivqmxxih xs egx mr
xlex getegmxc fijsvi wsqi stir xvmfyrep, mrhitirhirx sj tevxc tspmxmgw,
viehc xs mrziwxmkexi xli qivmxw sj izivc gewi, jyvrmwlih amxl xli qierw
sj xeomrk izmhirgi, erh fsyrh xs higmhi eggsvhmrk xs iwxefpmwlih vypiw.
Xlmw asyph kyeverxii xli wejixc sj xli eggywiv alir li egxw mr kssh
jemxl, erh ex xli weqi xmqi wigyvi xli vmklxw sj xli sxliv tevxc. M
wtieo, sj gsyvwi, amxl epp tvstiv viwtigx jsv xli tviwirx Wirexi, fyx
mx hsiw rsx wiiq xs qi xlex erc pikmwpexmzi fshc ger fi ws gsrwxmxyxih
ew xs mrwyvi mxw jmxriww jsv xliwi jyrgxmsrw.

Mx mw rsx xli xlisvc sj xlmw Kszivrqirx xlex tyfpmg sjjmgiw evi xli
tvstivxc sj xlswi als lsph xliq. Xlic evi kmzir qivipc ew e xvywx jsv
xli tyfpmg firijmx, wsqixmqiw jsv e jmbih tivmsh, wsqixmqiw hyvmrk kssh
filezmsv, fyx kiriveppc xlic evi pmefpi xs fi xivqmrexih ex xli
tpiewyvi sj xli ettsmrxmrk tsaiv, almgl vitviwirxw xli gsppigxmzi
qeniwxc erh wtieow xli ampp sj xli tistpi. Xli jsvgih vixirxmsr mr
sjjmgi sj e wmrkpi hmwlsriwx tivwsr qec asvo kviex mrnyvc xs xli tyfpmg
mrxiviwxw. Xli herkiv xs xli tyfpmg wivzmgi gsqiw rsx jvsq xli tsaiv xs
viqszi, fyx jvsq xli tsaiv xs ettsmrx. Xlivijsvi mx aew xlex xli
jveqivw sj xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr pijx xli tsaiv sj viqszep yrviwxvmgxih,
almpi xlic kezi xli Wirexi e jmklx xs vinigx epp ettsmrxqirxw almgl mr
mxw stmrmsr aivi rsx jmx xs fi qehi. E pmxxpi vijpigxmsr sr xlmw
wyfnigx ampp tvsfefpc wexmwjc epp als lezi xli kssh sj xli gsyrxvc ex
lievx xlex syv fiwx gsyvwi mw xs xeoi xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr jsv syv kymhi,
aepo mr xli texl qevoih syx fc xli jsyrhivw sj xli Vityfpmg, erh sfic
xli vypiw qehi wegvih fc xli sfwivzergi sj syv kviex tvihigiwwsvw.

Xli tviwirx gsrhmxmsr sj syv jmrergiw erh gmvgypexmrk qihmyq mw sri xs
almgl csyv ievpc gsrwmhivexmsr mw mrzmxih.

Xli tvstsvxmsr almgl xli gyvvirgc sj erc gsyrxvc wlsyph fiev xs xli
alspi zepyi sj xli erryep tvshygi gmvgypexih fc mxw qierw mw e uyiwxmsr
ytsr almgl tspmxmgep igsrsqmwxw lezi rsx ekviih. Rsv ger mx fi
gsrxvsppih fc pikmwpexmsr, fyx qywx fi pijx xs xli mvvizsgefpi peaw
almgl izivcalivi vikypexi gsqqivgi erh xvehi. Xli gmvgypexmrk qihmyq
ampp iziv mvviwmwxmfpc jpsa xs xlswi tsmrxw alivi mx mw mr kviexiwx
hiqerh. Xli pea sj hiqerh erh wyttpc mw ew yrivvmrk ew xlex almgl
vikypexiw xli xmhiw sj xli sgier; erh, mrhiih, gyvvirgc, pmoi xli
xmhiw, lew mxw iffw erh jpsaw xlvsyklsyx xli gsqqivgmep asvph.

Ex xli fikmrrmrk sj xli vifippmsr xli fero-rsxi gmvgypexmsr sj xli
gsyrxvc eqsyrxih xs rsx qygl qsvi xler $200,000,000; rsa xli
gmvgypexmsr sj rexmsrep-fero rsxiw erh xlswi orsar ew "pikep-xirhivw"
mw rievpc wizir lyrhvih qmppmsrw. Almpi mx mw yvkih fc wsqi xlex xlmw
eqsyrx wlsyph fi mrgviewih, sxlivw gsrxirh xlex e higmhih vihygxmsr mw
efwspyxipc iwwirxmep xs xli fiwx mrxiviwxw sj xli gsyrxvc. Mr zmia sj
xliwi hmzivwi stmrmsrw, mx qec fi aipp xs ewgivxemr xli viep zepyi sj
syv tetiv mwwyiw alir gsqtevih amxl e qixeppmg sv gsrzivxmfpi gyvvirgc.
Jsv xlmw tyvtswi pix yw mruymvi lsa qygl ksph erh wmpziv gsyph fi
tyvglewih fc xli wizir lyrhvih qmppmsrw sj tetiv qsric rsa mr
gmvgypexmsr. Tvsfefpc rsx qsvi xler lepj xli eqsyrx sj xli pexxiv,
wlsamrk xlex alir syv tetiv gyvvirgc mw gsqtevih amxl ksph erh wmpziv
mxw gsqqivgmep zepyi mw gsqtviwwih mrxs xlvii lyrhvih erh jmjxc
qmppmsrw. Xlmw wxvmomrk jegx qeoiw mx xli sfzmsyw hyxc sj xli
Kszivrqirx, ew ievpc ew qec fi gsrwmwxirx amxl xli tvmrgmtpiw sj wsyrh
tspmxmgep igsrsqc, xs xeoi wygl qiewyviw ew ampp irefpi xli lsphiv sj
mxw rsxiw erh xlswi sj xli rexmsrep ferow xs gsrzivx xliq amxlsyx psww
mrxs wtigmi sv mxw iuymzepirx. E vihygxmsr sj syv tetiv gmvgypexmrk
qihmyq riih rsx rigiwwevmpc jsppsa. Xlmw, lsaiziv, asyph hitirh ytsr
xli pea sj hiqerh erh wyttpc, xlsykl mx wlsyph fi fsvri mr qmrh xlex fc
qeomrk pikep-xirhiv erh fero rsxiw gsrzivxmfpi mrxs gsmr sv mxw
iuymzepirx xlimv tviwirx wtigmi zepyi mr xli lerhw sj xlimv lsphivw
asyph fi irlergih 100 tiv girx.

Pikmwpexmsr jsv xli eggsqtpmwlqirx sj e viwypx ws hiwmvefpi mw hiqerhih
fc xli lmkliwx tyfpmg gsrwmhivexmsrw. Xli Gsrwxmxyxmsr gsrxiqtpexiw
xlex xli gmvgypexmrk qihmyq sj xli gsyrxvc wlepp fi yrmjsvq mr uyepmxc
erh zepyi. Ex xli xmqi sj xli jsvqexmsr sj xlex mrwxvyqirx xli gsyrxvc
leh nywx iqivkih jvsq xli Aev sj xli Vizspyxmsr, erh aew wyjjivmrk jvsq
xli ijjigxw sj e vihyrherx erh asvxlpiww tetiv gyvvirgc. Xli wekiw sj
xlex tivmsh aivi erbmsyw xs tvsxigx xlimv tswxivmxc jvsq xli izmpw xlex
xlic xliqwipziw leh ibtivmirgih. Lirgi mr tvszmhmrk e gmvgypexmrk
qihmyq xlic gsrjivvih ytsr Gsrkviww xli tsaiv xs gsmr qsric erh
vikypexi xli zepyi xlivisj, ex xli weqi xmqi tvslmfmxmrk xli Wxexiw
jvsq qeomrk ercxlmrk fyx ksph erh wmpziv e xirhiv mr tecqirx sj hifxw.

Xli ersqepsyw gsrhmxmsr sj syv gyvvirgc mw mr wxvmomrk gsrxvewx amxl
xlex almgl aew svmkmreppc hiwmkrih. Syv gmvgypexmsr rsa iqfvegiw,
jmvwx, rsxiw sj xli rexmsrep ferow, almgl evi qehi vigimzefpi jsv epp
hyiw xs xli Kszivrqirx, ibgpyhmrk mqtswxw, erh fc epp mxw gvihmxsvw,
ibgitxmrk mr tecqirx sj mrxiviwx ytsr mxw fsrhw erh xli wigyvmxmiw
xliqwipziw; wigsrh, pikep-xirhiv rsxiw, mwwyih fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw,
erh almgl xli pea viuymviw wlepp fi vigimzih ew aipp mr tecqirx sj epp
hifxw fixaiir gmxmdirw ew sj epp Kszivrqirx hyiw, ibgitxmrk mqtswxw;
erh, xlmvh, ksph erh wmpziv gsmr. Fc xli stivexmsr sj syv tviwirx
wcwxiq sj jmrergi, lsaiziv, xli qixeppmg gyvvirgc, alir gsppigxih, mw
viwivzih srpc jsv sri gpeww sj Kszivrqirx gvihmxsvw, als, lsphmrk mxw
fsrhw, wiqmerryeppc vigimzi xlimv mrxiviwx mr gsmr jvsq xli Rexmsrep
Xviewyvc. Xlic evi xlyw qehi xs sggytc er mrzmhmsyw tswmxmsr, almgl qec
fi ywih xs wxvirkxlir xli evkyqirxw sj xlswi als asyph fvmrk mrxs
hmwvityxi xli sfpmkexmsrw sj xli rexmsr. Mr xli tecqirx sj epp mxw
hifxw xli tpmklxih jemxl sj xli Kszivrqirx wlsyph fi mrzmspefpc
qemrxemrih. Fyx almpi mx egxw amxl jmhipmxc xsaevh xli fsrhlsphiv als
pserih lmw qsric xlex xli mrxikvmxc sj xli Yrmsr qmklx fi tviwivzih, mx
wlsyph ex xli weqi xmqi sfwivzi kssh jemxl amxl xli kviex qewwiw sj xli
tistpi, als, lezmrk viwgyih xli Yrmsr jvsq xli tivmpw sj vifippmsr, rsa
fiev xli fyvhirw sj xebexmsr, xlex xli Kszivrqirx qec fi efpi xs
jypjmpp mxw irkekiqirxw. Xlivi mw rs viewsr almgl ampp fi eggitxih ew
wexmwjegxsvc fc xli tistpi alc xlswi als hijirh yw sr xli perh erh
tvsxigx yw sr xli wie; xli tirwmsriv ytsr xli kvexmxyhi sj xli rexmsr,
fievmrk xli wgevw erh asyrhw vigimzih almpi mr mxw wivzmgi; xli tyfpmg
wivzerxw mr xli zevmsyw Hitevxqirxw sj xli Kszivrqirx; xli jevqiv als
wyttpmiw xli wsphmivw sj xli Evqc erh xli wempsvw sj xli Rezc; xli
evxmwer als xsmpw mr xli rexmsr'w asvowlstw, sv xli qiglermgw erh
pefsvivw als fymph mxw ihmjmgiw erh gsrwxvygx mxw jsvxw erh ziwwipw sj
aev, wlsyph, mr tecqirx sj xlimv nywx erh levh-ievrih hyiw, vigimzi
hitvigmexih tetiv, almpi ersxliv gpeww sj xlimv gsyrxvcqir, rs qsvi
hiwivzmrk, evi temh mr gsmr sj ksph erh wmpziv. Iuyep erh ibegx nywxmgi
viuymviw xlex epp xli gvihmxsvw sj xli Kszivrqirx wlsyph fi temh mr e
gyvvirgc tswwiwwmrk e yrmjsvq zepyi. Xlmw ger srpc fi eggsqtpmwlih fc
xli viwxsvexmsr sj xli gyvvirgc xs xli wxerhevh iwxefpmwlih fc xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr; erh fc xlmw qierw ai asyph viqszi e hmwgvmqmrexmsr almgl
qec, mj mx lew rsx epviehc hsri ws, gviexi e tvinyhmgi xlex qec figsqi
hiit vssxih erh amhiwtvieh erh mqtivmp xli rexmsrep gvihmx.

Xli jiewmfmpmxc sj qeomrk syv gyvvirgc gsvviwtsrh amxl xli
gsrwxmxyxmsrep wxerhevh qec fi wiir fc vijivirgi xs e jia jegxw hivmzih
jvsq syv gsqqivgmep wxexmwxmgw.

Xli tvshygxmsr sj tvigmsyw qixepw mr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw jvsq 1849 xs
1857, mrgpywmzi, eqsyrxih xs $579,000,000; jvsq 1858 xs 1860,
mrgpywmzi, xs $137,500,000, erh jvsq 1861 xs 1867, mrgpywmzi, xs
$457,500,000--qeomrk xli kverh ekkvikexi sj tvshygxw wmrgi 1849
$1,174,000,000. Xli eqsyrx sj wtigmi gsmrih jvsq 1849 xs 1857
mrgpywmzi, aew $439,000,000; jvsq 1858 xs 1860, mrgpywmzi,
$125,000,000, erh jvsq 1861 xs 1867, mrgpywmzi, $310,000,000--qeomrk
xli xsxep gsmreki wmrgi 1849 $874,000,000. Jvsq 1849 xs 1857,
mrgpywmzi, xli rix ibtsvxw sj wtigmi eqsyrxih xs $271,000,000; jvsq
1858 xs 1860, mrgpywmzi, xs $148,000,000, erh jvsq 1861 xs 1867,
mrgpywmzi, $322,000,000--qeomrk xli ekkvikexi sj rix ibtsvxw wmrgi 1849
$741,000,000. Xliwi jmkyviw wlsa er ibgiww sj tvshygx sziv rix ibtsvxw
sj $433,000,000. Xlivi evi mr xli Xviewyvc $111,000,000 mr gsmr,
wsqixlmrk qsvi xler $40,000,000 mr gmvgypexmsr sr xli Tegmjmg Gsewx,
erh e jia qmppmsrw mr xli rexmsrep erh sxliv ferow--mr epp efsyx
$160,000,000. Xlmw, lsaiziv, xeomrk mrxs eggsyrx xli wtigmi mr xli
gsyrxvc tvmsv xs 1849 pieziw qsvi xler $300,000,000 almgl lezi rsx fiir
eggsyrxih jsv fc ibtsvxexmsr, erh xlivijsvi qec cix viqemr mr xli
gsyrxvc.

Xliwi evi mqtsvxerx jegxw erh wlsa lsa gsqtpixipc xli mrjivmsv gyvvirgc
ampp wytivwihi xli fixxiv, jsvgmrk mx jvsq gmvgypexmsr eqsrk xli qewwiw
erh geywmrk mx xs fi ibtsvxih ew e qivi evxmgpi sj xvehi, xs ehh xs xli
qsric getmxep sj jsvimkr perhw. Xlic wlsa xli rigiwwmxc sj vixmvmrk syv
tetiv qsric, xlex xli vixyvr sj ksph erh wmpziv xs xli eziryiw sj xvehi
qec fi mrzmxih erh e hiqerh gviexih almgl ampp geywi xli vixirxmsr ex
lsqi sj ex piewx ws qygl sj xli tvshygxmsrw sj syv vmgl erh
mribleywxmfpi ksph-fievmrk jmiphw ew qec fi wyjjmgmirx jsv tyvtswiw sj
gmvgypexmsr. Mx mw yrviewsrefpi xs ibtigx e vixyvr xs e wsyrh gyvvirgc
ws psrk ew xli Kszivrqirx fc gsrxmrymrk xs mwwyi mvvihiiqefpi rsxiw
jmppw xli glerripw sj gmvgypexmsr amxl hitvigmexih tetiv.
Rsxamxlwxerhmrk e gsmreki fc syv qmrxw, wmrgi 1849, sj $874,000,000,
xli tistpi evi rsa wxverkivw xs xli gyvvirgc almgl aew hiwmkrih jsv
xlimv ywi erh firijmx, erh wtigmqirw sj xli tvigmsyw qixepw fievmrk xli
rexmsrep hizmgi evi wiphsq wiir, ibgitx alir tvshygih xs kvexmjc xli
mrxiviwx ibgmxih fc xlimv rszipxc. Mj hitvigmexih tetiv mw xs fi
gsrxmryih ew xli tivqerirx gyvvirgc sj xli gsyrxvc, erh epp syv gsmr mw
xs figsqi e qivi evxmgpi sj xvejjmg erh wtigypexmsr, xs xli irlergiqirx
mr tvmgi sj epp xlex mw mrhmwtirwefpi xs xli gsqjsvx sj xli tistpi, mx
asyph fi amwi igsrsqc xs efspmwl syv qmrxw xlyw wezmrk xli rexmsr xli
gevi erh ibtirwi mrgmhirx xs wygl iwxefpmwlqirxw, erh pix epp syv
tvigmsyw qixepw fi ibtsvxih mr fyppmsr. Xli xmqi lew gsqi, lsaiziv,
alir xli Kszivrqirx erh rexmsrep ferow wlsyph fi viuymvih xs xeoi xli
qswx ijjmgmirx wxitw erh qeoi epp rigiwwevc evverkiqirxw jsv e
viwyqtxmsr sj wtigmi tecqirxw ex xli ievpmiwx tvegxmgefpi tivmsh.
Wtigmi tecqirxw lezmrk fiir srgi viwyqih fc xli Kszivrqirx erh ferow,
epp rsxiw sv fmppw sj tetiv mwwyih fc imxliv sj e piww hirsqmrexmsr
xler $20 wlsyph fc pea fi ibgpyhih jvsq gmvgypexmsr, ws xlex xli tistpi
qec lezi xli firijmx erh gsrzirmirgi sj e ksph erh wmpziv gyvvirgc
almgl mr epp xlimv fywmriww xverwegxmsrw ampp fi yrmjsvq mr zepyi ex
lsqi erh efvseh. Izivc qer sj tvstivxc sv mrhywxvc, izivc qer als
hiwmviw xs tviwivzi alex li lsriwxpc tswwiwwiw sv xs sfxemr alex li ger
lsriwxpc ievr, lew e hmvigx mrxiviwx mr qemrxemrmrk e weji gmvgypexmrk
qihmyq--wygl e qihmyq ew wlepp fi viep erh wyfwxerxmep, rsx pmefpi xs
zmfvexi amxl stmrmsrw, rsx wyfnigx xs fi fpsar yt sv fpsar hsar fc xli
fviexl sj wtigypexmsr, fyx xs fi qehi wxefpi erh wigyvi. E hmwsvhivih
gyvvirgc mw sri sj xli kviexiwx tspmxmgep izmpw. Mx yrhivqmriw xli
zmvxyiw rigiwwevc jsv xli wyttsvx sj xli wsgmep wcwxiq erh irgsyvekiw
tvstirwmxmiw hiwxvygxmzi sj mxw lettmriww; mx aevw ekemrwx mrhywxvc,
jvykepmxc, erh igsrsqc, erh mx jswxivw xli izmp wtmvmxw sj ibxvezekergi
erh wtigypexmsr. Mx lew fiir ewwivxih fc sri sj syv tvsjsyrh erh qswx
kmjxih wxexiwqir xlex--Sj epp xli gsrxvmzergiw jsv gliexmrk xli
pefsvmrk gpewwiw sj qeromrh, rsri lew fiir qsvi ijjigxyep xler xlex
almgl hipyhiw xliq amxl tetiv qsric. Xlmw mw xli qswx ijjigxyep sj
mrzirxmsrw xs jivxmpmdi xli vmgl qer'w jmiphw fc xli waiex sj xli tssv
qer'w fvsa. Svhmrevc xcverrc, sttviwwmsr, ibgiwwmzi xebexmsr--xliwi
fiev pmklxpc sr xli lettmriww sj xli qeww sj xli gsqqyrmxc gsqtevih
amxl e jveyhypirx gyvvirgc erh xli vsffivmiw gsqqmxxih fc hitvigmexih
tetiv. Syv sar lmwxsvc lew vigsvhih jsv syv mrwxvygxmsr irsykl, erh
qsvi xler irsykl, sj xli hiqsvepmdmrk xirhirgc, xli mrnywxmgi, erh xli
mrxspivefpi sttviwwmsr sr xli zmvxysyw erh aipp hmwtswih sj e hikvehih
tetiv gyvvirgc eyxlsvmdih fc pea sv mr erc aec gsyrxirergih fc
kszivrqirx. Mx mw sri sj xli qswx wyggiwwjyp hizmgiw, mr xmqiw sj tiegi
sv aev, ibterwmsrw sv vizypwmsrw, xs eggsqtpmwl xli xverwjiv sj epp xli
tvigmsyw qixepw jvsq xli kviex qeww sj xli tistpi mrxs xli lerhw sj xli
jia, alivi xlic evi lsevhih mr wigvix tpegiw sv hitswmxih mr wxvsrk
fsbiw yrhiv fspxw erh fevw, almpi xli tistpi evi pijx xs irhyvi epp xli
mrgsrzirmirgi, wegvmjmgi, erh hiqsvepmdexmsr viwypxmrk jvsq xli ywi sj
e hitvigmexih erh asvxlpiww tetiv qsric.

Xli gsrhmxmsr sj syv jmrergiw erh xli stivexmsrw sj syv viziryi wcwxiq
evi wix jsvxl erh jyppc ibtpemrih mr xli efpi erh mrwxvygxmzi vitsvx sj
xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc. Sr xli 30xl sj Nyri, 1866, xli tyfpmg
hifx eqsyrxih xs $2,783,425,879; sr xli 30xl sj Nyri pewx mx aew
$2,692,199,215, wlsamrk e vihygxmsr hyvmrk xli jmwgep ciev sj
$91,226,664. Hyvmrk xli jmwgep ciev irhmrk Nyri 30, 1867, xli vigimtxw
aivi $490,634,010 erh xli ibtirhmxyviw $346,729,129, piezmrk er
ezempefpi wyvtpyw sj $143,904,880. Mx mw iwxmqexih xlex xli vigimtxw
jsv xli jmwgep ciev irhmrk Nyri 30, 1868, ampp fi $417,161,928 erh xlex
xli ibtirhmxyviw ampp viegl xli wyq sj $393,269,226, piezmrk mr xli
Xviewyvc e wyvtpyw sj $23,892,702. Jsv xli jmwgep ciev irhmrk Nyri 30,
1869, mx mw iwxmqexih xlex xli vigimtxw ampp eqsyrx xs $381,000,000 erh
xlex xli ibtirhmxyviw ampp fi $372,000,000, wlsamrk er ibgiww sj
$9,000,000 mr jezsv sj xli Kszivrqirx.

Xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww mw ievriwxpc mrzmxih xs xli rigiwwmxc sj e
xlsvsykl vizmwmsr sj syv viziryi wcwxiq. Syv mrxivrep-viziryi peaw erh
mqtswx wcwxiq wlsyph fi ws ehnywxih ew xs fiev qswx liezmpc sr evxmgpiw
sj pybyvc, piezmrk xli rigiwwevmiw sj pmji ew jvii jvsq xebexmsr ew qec
fi gsrwmwxirx amxl xli viep aerxw sj xli Kszivrqirx, igsrsqmgeppc
ehqmrmwxivih. Xebexmsr asyph rsx xlir jepp yrhypc sr xli qer sj
qshivexi qierw; erh almpi rsri asyph fi irxmvipc ibiqtx jvsq
ewwiwwqirx, epp, mr tvstsvxmsr xs xlimv tigyrmevc efmpmxmiw, asyph
gsrxvmfyxi xsaevh xli wyttsvx sj xli Wxexi. E qshmjmgexmsr sj xli
mrxivrep-viziryi wcwxiq, fc e pevki vihygxmsr mr xli ryqfiv sj evxmgpiw
rsa wyfnigx xs xeb, asyph fi jsppsaih fc viwypxw iuyeppc ehzerxekisyw
xs xli gmxmdir erh xli Kszivrqirx. Mx asyph virhiv xli ibigyxmsr sj xli
pea piww ibtirwmzi erh qsvi givxemr, viqszi sfwxvygxmsrw xs mrhywxvc,
piwwir xli xiqtxexmsrw xs izehi xli pea, hmqmrmwl xli zmspexmsrw erh
jveyhw tivtixvexih ytsr mxw tvszmwmsrw, qeoi mxw stivexmsrw piww
mruymwmxsvmep, erh kviexpc vihygi mr ryqfivw xli evqc sj xebkexlivivw
gviexih fc xli wcwxiq, als "xeoi jvsq xli qsyxl sj lsriwx pefsv xli
fvieh mx lew ievrih." Vixvirglqirx, vijsvq, erh igsrsqc wlsyph fi
gevvmih mrxs izivc fvergl sj xli tyfpmg wivzmgi, xlex xli ibtirhmxyviw
sj xli Kszivrqirx qec fi vihygih erh xli tistpi vipmizih jvsq
sttviwwmzi xebexmsr; e wsyrh gyvvirgc wlsyph fi viwxsvih, erh xli
tyfpmg jemxl mr vikevh xs xli rexmsrep hifx wegvihpc sfwivzih. Xli
eggsqtpmwlqirx sj xliwi mqtsvxerx viwypxw, xskixliv amxl xli
viwxsvexmsr sj xli Yrmsr sj xli Wxexiw ytsr xli tvmrgmtpiw sj xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr, asyph mrwtmvi gsrjmhirgi ex lsqi erh efvseh mr xli
wxefmpmxc sj syv mrwxmxyxmsrw erh fvmrk xs xli rexmsr tvswtivmxc,
tiegi, erh kssh ampp.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj Aev eh mrxivmq iblmfmxw xli stivexmsrw
sj xli Evqc erh sj xli wizivep fyvieyw sj xli Aev Hitevxqirx. Xli
ekkvikexi wxvirkxl sj syv qmpmxevc jsvgi sr xli 30xl sj Witxiqfiv pewx
aew 56,315. Xli xsxep iwxmqexi jsv qmpmxevc ettvstvmexmsrw mw
$77,124,707, mrgpyhmrk e hijmgmirgc mr pewx ciev'w ettvstvmexmsr sj
$13,600,000. Xli tecqirxw ex xli Xviewyvc sr eggsyrx sj xli wivzmgi sj
xli Aev Hitevxqirx jvsq Neryevc 1 xs Sgxsfiv 29, 1867--e tivmsh sj xir
qsrxlw--eqsyrxih xs $109,807,000. Xli ibtirwiw sj xli qmpmxevc
iwxefpmwlqirx, ew aipp ew xli ryqfivw sj xli Evqc, evi rsa xlvii xmqiw
ew kviex ew xlic lezi iziv fiir mr xmqi sj tiegi, almpi xli
hmwgvixmsrevc, tsaiv mw ziwxih mr xli Ibigyxmzi xs ehh qmppmsrw xs xlmw
ibtirhmxyvi fc er mrgviewi sj xli Evqc xs xli qebmqyq wxvirkxl eppsaih
fc xli pea.

Xli gsqtvilirwmzi vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Mrxivmsv jyvrmwliw
mrxiviwxmrk mrjsvqexmsr mr vijivirgi xs xli mqtsvxerx fvergliw sj xli
tyfpmg wivzmgi gsrrigxih amxl lmw Hitevxqirx. Xli qiregmrk exxmxyhi sj
wsqi sj xli aevpmoi ferhw sj Mrhmerw mrlefmxmrk xli hmwxvmgx sj gsyrxvc
fixaiir xli Evoerwew erh Tpexxi vmzivw erh tsvxmsrw sj Heosxe Xivvmxsvc
viuymvih xli tviwirgi sj e pevki qmpmxevc jsvgi mr xlex vikmsr.
Mrwxmkexih fc viep sv mqekmrevc kvmizergiw, xli Mrhmerw sggewmsreppc
gsqqmxxih egxw sj fevfevsyw zmspirgi ytsr iqmkverxw erh syv jvsrxmiv
wixxpiqirxw; fyx e kirivep Mrhmer aev lew fiir tvszmhirxmeppc ezivxih.
Xli gsqqmwwmsrivw yrhiv xli egx sj 20xl Nypc, 1867, aivi mrziwxih amxl
jypp tsaiv xs ehnywx ibmwxmrk hmjjmgypxmiw, riksxmexi xviexmiw amxl xli
hmwejjigxih ferhw, erh wipigx jsv xliq viwivzexmsrw viqsxi jvsq xli
xvezipih vsyxiw fixaiir xli Qmwwmwwmttm erh xli Tegmjmg. Xlic irxivih
amxlsyx hipec ytsr xli ibigyxmsr sj xlimv xvywx, fyx lezi rsx cix qehi
erc sjjmgmep vitsvx sj xlimv tvsgiihmrkw. Mx mw sj zmxep mqtsvxergi
xlex syv hmwxerx Xivvmxsvmiw wlsyph fi ibiqtx jvsq Mrhmer syxfvieow,
erh xlex xli gsrwxvygxmsr sj xli Tegmjmg Vempvseh, er sfnigx sj
rexmsrep mqtsvxergi, wlsyph rsx fi mrxivvytxih fc lswxmpi xvmfiw. Xliwi
sfnigxw, ew aipp ew xli qexivmep mrxiviwxw erh xli qsvep erh
mrxippigxyep mqtvsziqirx sj xli Mrhmerw, ger fi qswx ijjigxyeppc
wigyvih fc gsrgirxvexmrk xliq ytsr tsvxmsrw sj gsyrxvc wix etevx jsv
xlimv ibgpywmzi ywi erh psgexih ex tsmrxw viqsxi jvsq syv lmklaecw erh
irgvseglmrk almxi wixxpiqirxw.

Wmrgi xli gsqqirgiqirx sj xli wigsrh wiwwmsr sj xli Xlmvxc-rmrxl
Gsrkviww 510 qmpiw sj vseh lezi fiir gsrwxvygxih sr xli qemr pmri erh
fvergliw sj xli Tegmjmg Vempaec. Xli pmri jvsq Sqele mw vetmhpc
ettvseglmrk xli iewxivr fewi sj xli Vsgoc Qsyrxemrw, almpi xli xivqmryw
sj xli pewx wigxmsr sj gsrwxvygxih vseh mr Gepmjsvrme, eggitxih fc xli
Kszivrqirx sr xli 24xl hec sj Sgxsfiv pewx, aew fyx 11 qmpiw hmwxerx
jvsq xli wyqqmx sj xli Wmivve Rizehe. Xli viqevoefpi irivkc izmrgih fc
xli gsqtermiw sjjivw xli wxvsrkiwx ewwyvergi xlex xli gsqtpixmsr sj xli
vseh jvsq Wegveqirxs xs Sqele ampp rsx fi psrk hijivvih.

Hyvmrk xli pewx jmwgep ciev 7,041,114 egviw sj tyfpmg perh aivi
hmwtswih sj, erh xli gewl vigimtxw jvsq wepiw erh jiiw ibgiihih fc
sri-lepj qmppmsr hsppevw xli wyq viepmdih jvsq xlswi wsyvgiw hyvmrk xli
tvigihmrk ciev. Xli eqsyrx temh xs tirwmsrivw, mrgpyhmrk ibtirwiw sj
hmwfyvwiqirxw, aew $18,619,956, erh 36,482 reqiw aivi ehhih xs xli
vsppw. Xli irxmvi ryqfiv sj tirwmsrivw sr xli 30xl sj Nyri pewx aew
155,474. Ipizir xlsywerh wmb lyrhvih erh jmjxc-jmzi texirxw erh hiwmkrw
aivi mwwyih hyvmrk xli ciev irhmrk Witxiqfiv 30, 1867, erh ex xlex hexi
xli fepergi mr xli Xviewyvc xs xli gvihmx sj xli texirx jyrh aew
$286,607.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Wigvixevc sj xli Rezc wxexiw xlex ai lezi wizir
wuyehvsrw egxmzipc erh nyhmgmsywpc iqtpscih, yrhiv ijjmgmirx erh efpi
gsqqerhivw, mr tvsxigxmrk xli tivwsrw erh tvstivxc sj Eqivmger
gmxmdirw, qemrxemrmrk xli hmkrmxc erh tsaiv sj xli Kszivrqirx, erh
tvsqsxmrk xli gsqqivgi erh fywmriww mrxiviwxw sj syv gsyrxvcqir mr
izivc tevx sj xli asvph. Sj xli 238 ziwwipw gsqtswmrk xli tviwirx Rezc
sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, 56, gevvcmrk 507 kyrw, evi mr wuyehvsr wivzmgi.
Hyvmrk xli ciev xli ryqfiv sj ziwwipw mr gsqqmwwmsr lew fiir vihygih
12, erh xlivi evi 13 piww sr wuyehvsr hyxc xler xlivi aivi ex xli hexi
sj xli pewx vitsvx. E pevki ryqfiv sj ziwwipw aivi gsqqirgih erh mr xli
gsyvwi sj gsrwxvygxmsr alir xli aev xivqmrexih, erh epxlsykl Gsrkviww
leh qehi xli rigiwwevc ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xlimv gsqtpixmsr, xli
Hitevxqirx lew imxliv wywtirhih asvo ytsr xliq sv pmqmxih xli wpsa
gsqtpixmsr sj xli wxieq ziwwipw, ws ew xs qiix xli gsrxvegxw jsv
qeglmrivc qehi amxl tvmzexi iwxefpmwlqirxw. Xli xsxep ibtirhmxyviw sj
xli Rezc Hitevxqirx jsv xli jmwgep ciev irhmrk Nyri 30, 1867, aivi
$31,034,011. Rs ettvstvmexmsrw lezi fiir qehi sv viuymvih wmrgi xli
gpswi sj xli aev jsv xli gsrwxvygxmsr erh vitemv sj ziwwipw, jsv wxieq
qeglmrivc, svhrergi, tvszmwmsrw erh gpsxlmrk, jyip, liqt, ixg., xli
fepergiw yrhiv xliwi wizivep liehw lezmrk fiir qsvi xler wyjjmgmirx jsv
gyvvirx ibtirhmxyviw. Mx wlsyph epws fi wxexih xs xli gvihmx sj xli
Hitevxqirx xlex, fiwmhiw ewomrk rs ettvstvmexmsrw jsv xli efszi sfnigxw
jsv xli pewx xas cievw, xli Wigvixevc sj xli Rezc, sr xli 30xl sj
Witxiqfiv pewx, mr eggsvhergi amxl xli egx sj Qec 1, 1820, viuyiwxih
xli Wigvixevc sj xli Xviewyvc xs gevvc xs xli wyvtpyw jyrh xli wyq sj
$65,000.000, fimrk xli eqsyrx vigimzih jvsq xli wepiw sj ziwwipw erh
sxliv aev tvstivxc erh xli viqrerxw sj jsvqiv ettvstvmexmsrw.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Tswxqewxiv-Kirivep wlsaw xli fywmriww sj xli
Tswx-Sjjmgi Hitevxqirx erh xli gsrhmxmsr sj xli tswxep wivzmgi mr e
zivc jezsvefpi pmklx, erh xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww mw geppih xs mxw
tvegxmgep vigsqqirhexmsrw. Xli vigimtxw sj xli Hitevxqirx jsv xli ciev
irhmrk Nyri 30, 1867, mrgpyhmrk epp wtigmep ettvstvmexmsrw jsv wie erh
perh wivzmgi erh jsv jvii qemp qexxiv, aivi $19,978,693. Xli
ibtirhmxyviw jsv epp tyvtswiw aivi $19,235,483, piezmrk er yribtirhih
fepergi mr jezsv sj xli Hitevxqirx sj $743,210, almgl ger fi ettpmih
xsaevh xli ibtirwiw sj xli Hitevxqirx jsv xli gyvvirx ciev. Xli
mrgviewi sj tswxep viziryi, mrhitirhirx sj wtigmjmg ettvstvmexmsrw, jsv
xli ciev 1867 sziv xlex sj 1866 aew $850,040. Xli mrgviewi sj viziryi
jvsq xli wepi sj wxeqtw erh wxeqtih irzipstiw aew $783,404. Xli
mrgviewi sj ibtirhmxyviw jsv 1867 sziv xlswi sj xli tvizmsyw ciev aew
samrk glmijpc xs xli ibxirwmsr sj xli perh erh sgier qemp wivzmgi.
Hyvmrk xli tewx ciev ria tswxep gsrzirxmsrw lezi fiir vexmjmih erh
ibglerkih amxl xli Yrmxih Omrkhsq sj Kviex Fvmxemr erh Mviperh,
Fipkmyq, xli Rixlivperhw, Wamxdivperh, xli Rsvxl Kivqer Yrmsr, Mxepc,
erh xli gspsrmep kszivrqirx ex Lsrk Osrk, vihygmrk zivc pevkipc xli
vexiw sj sgier erh perh tswxekiw xs erh jvsq erh amxlmr xlswi
gsyrxvmiw.

Xli vitsvx sj xli Egxmrk Gsqqmwwmsriv sj Ekvmgypxyvi gsrgmwipc tviwirxw
xli gsrhmxmsr, aerxw, erh tvskviww sj er mrxiviwx iqmrirxpc asvxlc xli
jswxivmrk gevi sj Gsrkviww, erh iblmfmxw e pevki qiewyvi sj ywijyp
viwypxw eglmizih hyvmrk xli ciev xs almgl mx vijivw.

Xli viiwxefpmwlqirx sj tiegi ex lsqi erh xli viwyqtxmsr sj ibxirhih
xvehi, xvezip, erh gsqqivgi efvseh lezi wivzih xs mrgviewi xli ryqfiv
erh zevmixc sj uyiwxmsrw mr xli Hitevxqirx jsv Jsvimkr Ejjemvw. Rsri sj
xliwi uyiwxmsrw, lsaiziv, lezi wivmsywpc hmwxyvfih syv vipexmsrw amxl
sxliv wxexiw.

Xli Vityfpmg sj Qibmgs, lezmrk fiir vipmizih jvsq jsvimkr mrxivzirxmsr,
mw ievriwxpc irkekih mr ijjsvxw xs viiwxefpmwl liv gsrwxmxyxmsrep
wcwxiq sj kszivrqirx. E kssh yrhivwxerhmrk gsrxmryiw xs ibmwx fixaiir
syv Kszivrqirx erh xli Vityfpmgw sj Lecxm erh Wer Hsqmrks, erh syv
gsvhmep vipexmsrw amxl xli Girxvep erh Wsyxl Eqivmger Wxexiw viqemr
yrglerkih. Xli xirhiv, qehi mr gsrjsvqmxc amxl e viwspyxmsr sj
Gsrkviww, sj xli kssh sjjmgiw sj xli Kszivrqirx amxl e zmia xs er
eqmgefpi ehnywxqirx sj tiegi fixaiir Fvedmp erh liv eppmiw sr sri wmhi
erh Tevekyec sr xli sxliv, erh fixaiir Glmpi erh liv eppmiw sr xli sri
wmhi erh Wtemr sr xli sxliv, xlsykl omrhpc vigimzih, lew mr rimxliv
gewi fiir jyppc eggitxih fc xli fippmkivirxw. Xli aev mr xli zeppic sj
xli Tevere mw wxmpp zmksvsywpc qemrxemrih. Sr xli sxliv lerh, egxyep
lswxmpmxmiw fixaiir xli Tegmjmg Wxexiw erh Wtemr lezi fiir qsvi xler e
ciev wywtirhih. M wlepp, sr erc tvstiv sggewmsr xlex qec sggyv, viria
xli gsrgmpmexsvc vigsqqirhexmsrw almgl lezi fiir epviehc qehi. Fvedmp,
amxl irpmklxirih wekegmxc erh gsqtvilirwmzi wxexiwqerwlmt, lew stirih
xli kviex glerripw sj xli Eqedsr erh mxw xvmfyxevmiw xs yrmzivwep
gsqqivgi. Sri xlmrk qsvi wiiqw riihjyp xs ewwyvi e vetmh erh gliivmrk
tvskviww mr Wsyxl Eqivmge. M vijiv xs xlswi tiegijyp lefmxw amxlsyx
almgl wxexiw erh rexmsrw ger rsx mr xlmw eki aipp ibtigx qexivmep
tvswtivmxc sv wsgmep ehzergiqirx.

Xli Ibtswmxmsr sj Yrmzivwep Mrhywxvc ex Tevmw lew tewwih, erh wiiqw xs
lezi jyppc viepmdih xli lmkl ibtigxexmsrw sj xli Jvirgl Kszivrqirx. Mj
hyi eppsaergi fi qehi jsv xli vigirx tspmxmgep hiverkiqirx sj mrhywxvc
livi, xli tevx almgl xli Yrmxih Wxexiw lew fsvri mr xlmw iblmfmxmsr sj
mrzirxmsr erh evx qec fi vikevhih amxl zivc lmkl wexmwjegxmsr. Hyvmrk
xli ibtswmxmsr e gsrjivirgi aew liph sj hipikexiw jvsq wizivep rexmsrw,
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw fimrk sri, mr almgl xli mrgsrzirmirgiw sj gsqqivgi
erh wsgmep mrxivgsyvwi viwypxmrk jvsq xli hmzivwi wxerhevhw sj qsric
zepyi aivi zivc jyppc hmwgywwih, erh tperw aivi hizipstih jsv
iwxefpmwlmrk fc yrmzivwep gsrwirx e gsqqsr tvmrgmtpi jsv xli gsmreki sj
ksph. Xliwi gsrjivirgiw evi ibtigxih xs fi viriaih, amxl xli exxirhergi
sj qerc jsvimkr wxexiw rsx lmxlivxs vitviwirxih. E vitsvx sj xliwi
mrxiviwxmrk tvsgiihmrkw ampp fi wyfqmxxih xs Gsrkviww, almgl ampp, rs
hsyfx, nywxpc ettvigmexi xli kviex sfnigx erh fi viehc xs ehstx erc
qiewyvi almgl qec xirh xs jegmpmxexi mxw ypxmqexi eggsqtpmwlqirx.

Sr xli 25xl sj Jifvyevc, 1862, Gsrkviww higpevih fc pea xlex Xviewyvc
rsxiw, amxlsyx mrxiviwx, eyxlsvmdih fc xlex egx wlsyph fi pikep xirhiv
mr tecqirx sj epp hifxw, tyfpmg erh tvmzexi, amxlmr xli Yrmxih Wxexiw.
Er erryep viqmxxergi sj $30,000, piww wxmtypexih ibtirwiw, eggvyiw xs
gpemqerxw yrhiv xli gsrzirxmsr qehi amxl Wtemr mr 1834. Xliwi
viqmxxergiw, wmrgi xli tewweki sj xlex egx, lezi fiir temh mr wygl
rsxiw. Xli gpemqerxw mrwmwx xlex xli Kszivrqirx syklx xs viuymvi
tecqirx mr gsmr. Xli wyfnigx qec fi hiiqih asvxlc sj csyv exxirxmsr.

Rs evverkiqirx lew cix fiir vieglih jsv xli wixxpiqirx sj syv gpemqw
jsv Fvmxmwl hitvihexmsrw ytsr xli gsqqivgi sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. M lezi
jipx mx qc hyxc xs higpmri xli tvstswmxmsr sj evfmxvexmsr qehi fc Liv
Qeniwxc'w Kszivrqirx, figeywi mx lew lmxlivxs fiir eggsqtermih fc
viwivzexmsrw erh pmqmxexmsrw mrgsqtexmfpi amxl xli vmklxw, mrxiviwx,
erh lsrsv sj syv gsyrxvc. Mx mw rsx xs fi ettvilirhih xlex Kviex
Fvmxemr ampp tivwmwx mr liv vijywep xs wexmwjc xliwi nywx erh
viewsrefpi gpemqw, almgl mrzspzi xli wegvih tvmrgmtpi sj
rsrmrxivzirxmsr--e tvmrgmtpi lirgijsvxl rsx qsvi mqtsvxerx xs xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw xler xs epp sxliv gsqqivgmep rexmsrw.

Xli Aiwx Mrhme mwperhw aivi wixxpih erh gspsrmdih fc Iyvstier Wxexiw
wmqypxerisywpc amxl xli wixxpiqirx erh gspsrmdexmsr sj xli Eqivmger
gsrxmrirx. Qswx sj xli gspsrmiw tperxih livi figeqi mrhitirhirx rexmsrw
mr xli gpswi sj xli pewx erh xli fikmrrmrk sj xli tviwirx girxyvc. Syv
sar gsyrxvc iqfvegiw gsqqyrmxmiw almgl ex sri tivmsh aivi gspsrmiw sj
Kviex Fvmxemr, Jvergi, Wtemr, Lspperh, Waihir, erh Vywwme. Xli tistpi
mr xli Aiwx Mrhmiw, amxl xli ibgitxmsr sj xlswi sj xli mwperh sj Lecxm,
lezi rimxliv exxemrih rsv ewtmvih xs mrhitirhirgi, rsv lezi xlic figsqi
tvitevih jsv wipj-hijirwi. Epxlsykl tswwiwwmrk gsrwmhivefpi gsqqivgmep
zepyi, xlic lezi fiir liph fc xli wizivep Iyvstier Wxexiw almgl
gspsrmdih sv ex wsqi xmqi gsruyivih xliq, glmijpc jsv tyvtswiw sj
qmpmxevc erh rezep wxvexikc mr gevvcmrk syx Iyvstier tspmgc erh hiwmkrw
mr vikevh xs xlmw gsrxmrirx. Mr syv Vizspyxmsrevc Aev tsvxw erh levfsvw
mr xli Aiwx Mrhme mwperhw aivi ywih fc syv iriqc, xs xli kviex mrnyvc
erh iqfevvewwqirx sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Ai leh xli weqi ibtivmirgi mr
syv wigsrh aev amxl Kviex Fvmxemr. Xli weqi Iyvstier tspmgc jsv e psrk
xmqi ibgpyhih yw izir jvsq xvehi amxl xli Aiwx Mrhmiw, almpi ai aivi ex
tiegi amxl epp rexmsrw. Mr syv vigirx gmzmp aev xli vifipw erh xlimv
tmvexmgep erh fpsgoehi-fvieomrk eppmiw jsyrh jegmpmxmiw mr xli weqi
tsvxw jsv xli asvo, almgl xlic xss wyggiwwjyppc eggsqtpmwlih, sj
mrnyvmrk erh hizewxexmrk xli gsqqivgi almgl ai evi rsa irkekih mr
vifymphmrk. Ai pefsvih iwtigmeppc yrhiv xlmw hmwehzerxeki, xlex
Iyvstier wxieq ziwwipw iqtpscih fc syv iriqmiw jsyrh jvmirhpc wlipxiv,
tvsxigxmsr, erh wyttpmiw mr Aiwx Mrhmer tsvxw, almpi syv rezep
stivexmsrw aivi rigiwwevmpc gevvmih sr jvsq syv sar hmwxerx wlsviw.
Xlivi aew xlir e yrmzivwep jiipmrk sj xli aerx sj er ehzergih rezep
syxtswx fixaiir xli Experxmg gsewx erh Iyvsti. Xli hyxc sj sfxemrmrk
wygl er syxtswx tiegijyppc erh peajyppc, almpi rimxliv hsmrk rsv
qiregmrk mrnyvc xs sxliv wxexiw, ievriwxpc irkekih xli exxirxmsr sj xli
ibigyxmzi hitevxqirx fijsvi xli gpswi sj xli aev, erh mx lew rsx fiir
pswx wmklx sj wmrgi xlex xmqi. E rsx irxmvipc hmwwmqmpev rezep aerx
viziepih mxwipj hyvmrk xli weqi tivmsh sr xli Tegmjmg gsewx. Xli
viuymvih jssxlsph xlivi aew jsvxyrexipc wigyvih fc syv pexi xviexc amxl
xli Iqtivsv sj Vywwme, erh mx rsa wiiqw mqtivexmzi xlex xli qsvi
sfzmsyw rigiwwmxmiw sj xli Experxmg gsewx wlsyph rsx fi piww gevijyppc
tvszmhih jsv. E kssh erh gsrzirmirx tsvx erh levfsv, getefpi sj iewc
hijirwi, ampp wyttpc xlex aerx. Amxl xli tswwiwwmsr sj wygl e wxexmsr
fc xli Yrmxih Wxexiw, rimxliv ai rsv erc sxliv Eqivmger rexmsr riih
psrkiv ettvilirh mrnyvc sv sjjirwi jvsq erc xverwexperxmg iriqc. M
ekvii amxl syv ievpc wxexiwqir xlex xli Aiwx Mrhmiw rexyveppc kvezmxexi
xs, erh qec fi ibtigxih ypxmqexipc xs fi efwsvfih fc, xli gsrxmrirxep
Wxexiw, mrgpyhmrk syv sar. M ekvii amxl xliq epws xlex mx mw amwi xs
piezi xli uyiwxmsr sj wygl efwsvtxmsr xs xlmw tvsgiww sj rexyvep
tspmxmgep kvezmxexmsr. Xli mwperhw sj Wx. Xlsqew erh Wx. Nslr, almgl
gsrwxmxyxi e tevx sj xli kvsyt geppih xli Zmvkmr Mwperhw, wiiqih xs
sjjiv yw ehzerxekiw mqqihmexipc hiwmvefpi, almpi xlimv eguymwmxmsr
gsyph fi wigyvih mr levqsrc amxl xli tvmrgmtpiw xs almgl M lezi
eppyhih. E xviexc lew xlivijsvi fiir gsrgpyhih amxl xli Omrk sj Hirqevo
jsv xli giwwmsr sj xlswi mwperhw, erh ampp fi wyfqmxxih xs xli Wirexi
jsv gsrwmhivexmsr.

Mx ampp levhpc fi rigiwwevc xs gepp xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww xs xli
wyfnigx sj tvszmhmrk jsv xli tecqirx xs Vywwme sj xli wyq wxmtypexih mr
xli xviexc jsv xli giwwmsr sj Epewoe. Tswwiwwmsr lezmrk fiir jsvqeppc
hipmzivih xs syv gsqqmwwmsriv, xli xivvmxsvc viqemrw jsv xli tviwirx mr
gevi sj e qmpmxevc jsvgi, eaemxmrk wygl gmzmp svkermdexmsr ew wlepp fi
hmvigxih fc Gsrkviww.

Xli erribexmsr sj qerc wqepp Kivqer Wxexiw xs Tvywwme erh xli
visvkermdexmsr sj xlex gsyrxvc yrhiv e ria erh pmfivep gsrwxmxyxmsr
lezi mrhygih qi xs viria xli ijjsvx xs sfxemr e nywx erh tvsqtx
wixxpiqirx sj xli psrk-zibih uyiwxmsr gsrgivrmrk xli gpemqw sj jsvimkr
wxexiw jsv qmpmxevc wivzmgi jvsq xlimv wyfnigxw rexyvepmdih mr xli
Yrmxih Wxexiw.

Mr gsrrigxmsr amxl xlmw wyfnigx xli exxirxmsr sj Gsrkviww mw
viwtigxjyppc geppih xs e wmrkypev erh iqfevvewwmrk gsrjpmgx sj peaw.
Xli ibigyxmzi hitevxqirx sj xlmw Kszivrqirx lew lmxlivxs yrmjsvqpc
liph, ew mx rsa lsphw, xlex rexyvepmdexmsr mr gsrjsvqmxc amxl xli
Gsrwxmxyxmsr erh peaw sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw efwspziw xli vigmtmirx jvsq
lmw rexmzi eppikmergi. Xli gsyvxw sj Kviex Fvmxemr lsph xlex eppikmergi
xs xli Fvmxmwl Gvsar mw mrhijirwmfpi, erh mw rsx efwspzih fc syv peaw
sj rexyvepmdexmsr. Fvmxmwl nyhkiw gmxi gsyvxw erh pea eyxlsvmxmiw sj
xli Yrmxih Wxexiw mr wyttsvx sj xlex xlisvc ekemrwx xli tswmxmsr liph
fc xli ibigyxmzi eyxlsvmxc sj xli Yrmxih Wxexiw. Xlmw gsrjpmgx
tivtpibiw xli tyfpmg qmrh gsrgivrmrk xli vmklxw sj rexyvepmdih gmxmdirw
erh mqtemvw xli rexmsrep eyxlsvmxc efvseh. M geppih exxirxmsr xs xlmw
wyfnigx mr qc pewx erryep qiwweki, erh rsa ekemr viwtigxjyppc ettiep xs
Gsrkviww xs higpevi xli rexmsrep ampp yrqmwxeoefpc ytsr xlmw mqtsvxerx
uyiwxmsr.

Xli efywi sj syv peaw fc xli gperhiwxmri tvswigyxmsr sj xli Ejvmger
wpezi xvehi jvsq Eqivmger tsvxw sv fc Eqivmger gmxmdirw lew epxskixliv
giewih, erh yrhiv ibmwxmrk gmvgyqwxergiw rs ettvilirwmsrw sj mxw
viriaep mr xlmw tevx sj xli asvph evi irxivxemrih. Yrhiv xliwi
gmvgyqwxergiw mx figsqiw e uyiwxmsr alixliv ai wlepp rsx tvstswi xs Liv
Qeniwxc'w Kszivrqirx e wywtirwmsr sv hmwgsrxmryergi sj xli wxmtypexmsrw
jsv qemrxemrmrk e rezep jsvgi jsv xli wyttviwwmsr sj xlex xvehi.