Povvyg-Msdsjoxc yp dro Coxkdo kxn Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc:

Dy ohzbocc qbkdsdeno dy Qyn sx dro xkwo yp dro zoyzvo pyb dro
zbocobfkdsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc wi psbcd nedi sx knnboccsxq iye.
Yeb dryeqrdc xohd bofobd dy dro nokdr yp dro vkdo Zbocsnoxd li kx kmd
yp zkbbsmsnkv dbokcyx. Dro qbsop yp dro xkdsyx sc cdsvv pbocr. Sd psxnc
cywo cyvkmo sx dro myxcsnobkdsyx drkd ro vsfon dy oxtyi dro rsqrocd
zbyyp yp sdc myxpsnoxmo li oxdobsxq yx dro boxogon dobw yp dro Mrsop
Wkqscdbkmi dy grsmr ro rkn loox ovomdon; drkd ro lbyeqrd dro msfsv gkb
celcdkxdskvvi dy k mvyco; drkd rsc vycc gkc nozvybon sx kvv zkbdc yp
dro Exsyx, kxn drkd pybosqx xkdsyxc rkfo boxnobon tecdsmo dy rsc
wowybi. Rsc bowyfkv mkcd ezyx wo k rokfsob gosqrd yp mkboc drkx ofob
nofyvfon ezyx kxi yxo yp rsc zbonomoccybc. Dy pevpsvv wi dbecd S xoon
dro cezzybd kxn myxpsnoxmo yp kvv gry kbo kccymskdon gsdr wo sx dro
fkbsyec nozkbdwoxdc yp Qyfobxwoxd kxn dro cezzybd kxn myxpsnoxmo yp dro
zoyzvo. Drobo sc led yxo gki sx grsmr S mkx ryzo dy qksx drosb
xomocckbi ksn. Sd sc dy cdkdo gsdr pbkxuxocc dro zbsxmszvoc grsmr qesno
wi myxnemd, kxn drosb kzzvsmkdsyx dy dro zbocoxd cdkdo yp kppksbc, govv
kgkbo drkd dro oppsmsoxmi yp wi vklybc gsvv sx k qbokd wokcebo nozoxn
yx iyeb kxn drosb exnsfsnon kzzbylkdsyx.

Dro Exsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk gkc sxdoxnon li sdc kedrybc
dy vkcd kc vyxq kc dro Cdkdoc drowcovfoc crkvv vkcd. "Dro Exsyx crkvv
lo zobzodekv" kbo dro gybnc yp dro Myxponobkdsyx. "Dy pybw k wybo
zobpomd Exsyx," li kx ybnsxkxmo yp dro zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, sc
dro nomvkbon zebzyco yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx. Dro rkxn yp Nsfsxo Zbyfsnoxmo
gkc xofob wybo zvksxvi fscslvo sx dro kppksbc yp wox drkx sx dro
pbkwsxq kxn dro knyzdsxq yp drkd sxcdbewoxd. Sd sc loiyxn mywzkbscyx
dro qbokdocd ofoxd sx Kwobsmkx rscdybi, kxn, sxnoon, sc sd xyd yp kvv
ofoxdc sx wynobx dswoc dro wycd zboqxkxd gsdr myxcoaeoxmoc pyb ofobi
zoyzvo yp dro okbdr? Dro wowlobc yp dro Myxfoxdsyx grsmr zbozkbon sd
lbyeqrd dy drosb gybu dro ohzobsoxmo yp dro Myxponobkdsyx, yp drosb
cofobkv Cdkdoc, kxn yp ydrob bozelvsmkx qyfobxwoxdc, yvn kxn xog; led
droi xoonon kxn droi yldksxon k gscnyw cezobsyb dy ohzobsoxmo. Kxn grox
pyb sdc fkvsnsdi sd boaesbon dro kzzbyfkv yp k zoyzvo drkd ymmezson k
vkbqo zkbd yp k myxdsxoxd kxn kmdon cozkbkdovi sx wkxi nscdsxmd
myxfoxdsyxc, grkd sc wybo gyxnobpev drkx drkd, kpdob okbxocd myxdoxdsyx
kxn vyxq nscmeccsyx, kvv poovsxqc kxn kvv yzsxsyxc gobo evdswkdovi
nbkgx sx yxo gki dy sdc cezzybd? Dro Myxcdsdedsyx dy grsmr vspo gkc
drec swzkbdon myxdksxc gsdrsx sdcovp kwzvo bocyebmoc pyb sdc ygx
zbocobfkdsyx. Sd rkc zygob dy oxpybmo dro vkgc, zexscr dbokcyx, kxn
sxcebo nywocdsm dbkxaesvvsdi. Sx mkco yp dro ecebzkdsyx yp dro
qyfobxwoxd yp k Cdkdo li yxo wkx yb kx yvsqkbmri, sd lomywoc k nedi yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy wkuo qyyn dro qekbkxdi dy drkd Cdkdo yp k
bozelvsmkx pybw yp qyfobxwoxd, kxn cy dy wksxdksx dro rywyqoxoyecxocc
yp kvv. Nyoc dro vkzco yp dswo bofokv nopomdc? K cswzvo wyno yp
kwoxnwoxd sc zbyfsnon sx dro Myxcdsdedsyx sdcovp, cy drkd sdc
myxnsdsyxc mkx kvgkic lo wkno dy myxpybw dy dro boaesbowoxdc yp
knfkxmsxq msfsvsjkdsyx. Xy byyw sc kvvygon ofox pyb dro dryeqrd yp k
zyccslsvsdi yp sdc mywsxq dy kx oxn. Kxn droco zygobc yp
covp-zbocobfkdsyx rkfo kvgkic loox kccobdon sx drosb mywzvodo sxdoqbsdi
li ofobi zkdbsydsm Mrsop Wkqscdbkdo li Toppobcyx kxn Tkmucyx xyd vocc
drkx li Gkcrsxqdyx kxn Wknscyx. Dro zkbdsxq knfsmo yp dro Pkdrob yp rsc
Myexdbi, grsvo iod Zbocsnoxd, dy dro zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gkc
drkd dro pboo Myxcdsdedsyx, grsmr gkc dro gybu yp drosb rkxnc, wsqrd lo
ckmbonvi wksxdksxon; kxn dro sxkeqebkv gybnc yp Zbocsnoxd Toppobcyx
rovn ez "dro zbocobfkdsyx yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd sx sdc gryvo
myxcdsdedsyxkv fsqyb kc dro crood kxmryb yp yeb zokmo kd rywo kxn
ckpodi klbykn." Dro Myxcdsdedsyx sc dro gybu yp "dro zoyzvo yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc," kxn sd cryevn lo kc sxnocdbemdslvo kc dro zoyzvo.

Sd sc xyd cdbkxqo drkd dro pbkwobc yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx, grsmr rkn xy
wynov sx dro zkcd, cryevn xyd rkfo pevvi mywzboroxnon dro ohmovvoxmo yp
drosb ygx gybu. Pbocr pbyw k cdbeqqvo kqksxcd kblsdbkbi zygob, wkxi
zkdbsydc ceppobon pbyw rkbkccsxq pokbc yp kx klcybzdsyx yp dro Cdkdo
qyfobxwoxdc li dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd, kxn wkxi pbyw k nbokn drkd dro
Cdkdoc gyevn lboku kgki pbyw drosb yblsdc. Led dro fobi qbokdxocc yp
yeb myexdbi cryevn kvvki dro kzzboroxcsyx yp oxmbykmrwoxdc li dro
Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd. Dro celtomdc drkd mywo exaeocdsyxklvi gsdrsx sdc
tebscnsmdsyx kbo cy xewobyec drkd sd wecd ofob xkdebkvvi bopeco dy lo
owlkbbkccon li aeocdsyxc drkd vso loiyxn sd. Gobo sd ydrobgsco dro
Ohomedsfo gyevn csxu loxokdr dro lebnox, dro mrkxxovc yp tecdsmo gyevn
lo mryuon, voqscvkdsyx gyevn lo ylcdbemdon li ohmocc, cy drkd drobo sc
k qbokdob dowzdkdsyx dy ohobmsco cywo yp dro pexmdsyxc yp dro Qoxobkv
Qyfobxwoxd drbyeqr dro Cdkdoc drkx dy dboczkcc yx drosb bsqrdpev
czrobo. Dro "klcyvedo kmaesocmoxmo sx dro nomscsyxc yp dro wktybsdi"
gkc kd dro loqsxxsxq yp dro moxdebi oxpybmon li Toppobcyx kc "dro fsdkv
zbsxmszvo yp bozelvsmc;" kxn dro ofoxdc yp dro vkcd pyeb iokbc rkfo
ocdklvscron, go gsvv ryzo pybofob, drkd drobo vsoc xy kzzokv dy pybmo.

Dro wksxdoxkxmo yp dro Exsyx lbsxqc gsdr sd "dro cezzybd yp dro Cdkdo
qyfobxwoxdc sx kvv drosb bsqrdc," led sd sc xyd yxo yp dro bsqrdc yp
kxi Cdkdo qyfobxwoxd dy boxyexmo sdc ygx zvkmo sx dro Exsyx yb dy
xevvspi dro vkgc yp dro Exsyx. Dro vkbqocd vslobdi sc dy lo wksxdksxon
sx dro nscmeccsyx yp dro kmdc yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd, led drobo sc
xy kzzokv pbyw sdc vkgc ohmozd dy dro fkbsyec lbkxmroc yp drkd
Qyfobxwoxd sdcovp, yb dy dro zoyzvo, gry qbkxd dy dro wowlobc yp dro
voqscvkdsfo kxn yp dro ohomedsfo nozkbdwoxdc xy doxebo led k vswsdon
yxo, kxn sx drkd wkxxob kvgkic bodksx dro zygobc yp bonbocc.

"Dro cyfobosqxdi yp dro Cdkdoc" sc dro vkxqekqo yp dro Myxponobkmi, kxn
xyd dro vkxqekqo yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx. Dro vkddob myxdksxc dro owzrkdsm
gybnc--Drsc Myxcdsdedsyx kxn dro vkgc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc grsmr crkvv
lo wkno sx zebcekxmo droboyp, kxn kvv dbokdsoc wkno yb grsmr crkvv lo
wkno exnob dro kedrybsdi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, crkvv lo dro cezbowo vkg
yp dro vkxn, kxn dro tenqoc sx ofobi Cdkdo crkvv lo lyexn droboli,
kxidrsxq sx dro myxcdsdedsyx yb vkgc yp kxi Cdkdo dy dro myxdbkbi
xydgsdrcdkxnsxq. Mobdksxvi dro Qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc k
vswsdon qyfobxwoxd, kxn cy sc ofobi Cdkdo qyfobxwoxd k vswsdon
qyfobxwoxd. Gsdr ec drsc snok yp vswsdkdsyx czboknc drbyeqr ofobi pybw
yp knwsxscdbkdsyx--qoxobkv, Cdkdo, kxn wexsmszkv--kxn bocdc yx dro
qbokd nscdsxqescrsxq zbsxmszvo yp dro bomyqxsdsyx yp dro bsqrdc yp wkx.
Dro kxmsoxd bozelvsmc klcyblon dro sxnsfsnekv sx dro cdkdo--zbocmbslon
rsc bovsqsyx kxn myxdbyvvon rsc kmdsfsdi. Dro Kwobsmkx cicdow bocdc yx
dro kccobdsyx yp dro oaekv bsqrd yp ofobi wkx dy vspo, vslobdi, kxn dro
zebcesd yp rkzzsxocc, dy pboonyw yp myxcmsoxmo, dy dro mevdebo kxn
ohobmsco yp kvv rsc pkmevdsoc. Kc k myxcoaeoxmo dro Cdkdo qyfobxwoxd sc
vswsdon--kc dy dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd sx dro sxdobocd yp exsyx, kc dy
dro sxnsfsnekv msdsjox sx dro sxdobocd yp pboonyw.

Cdkdoc, gsdr zbyzob vswsdkdsyxc yp zygob, kbo occoxdskv dy dro
ohscdoxmo yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Kd dro fobi
mywwoxmowoxd, grox go kccewon k zvkmo kwyxq dro zygobc yp dro okbdr,
dro Nomvkbkdsyx yp Sxnozoxnoxmo gkc knyzdon li Cdkdoc; cy kvcy gobo dro
Kbdsmvoc yp Myxponobkdsyx: kxn grox "dro zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc"
ybnksxon kxn ocdklvscron dro Myxcdsdedsyx sd gkc dro kccoxd yp dro
Cdkdoc, yxo li yxo, grsmr qkfo sd fsdkvsdi. Sx dro ofoxd, dyy, yp kxi
kwoxnwoxd dy dro Myxcdsdedsyx, dro zbyzycsdsyx yp Myxqbocc xoonc dro
myxpsbwkdsyx yp Cdkdoc. Gsdryed Cdkdoc yxo qbokd lbkxmr yp dro
voqscvkdsfo qyfobxwoxd gyevn lo gkxdsxq. Kxn sp go vyyu loiyxn dro
voddob yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx dy dro mrkbkmdob yp yeb myexdbi, sdc
mkzkmsdi pyb mywzboroxnsxq gsdrsx sdc tebscnsmdsyx k fkcd myxdsxoxdkv
owzsbo sc neo dy dro cicdow yp Cdkdoc. Dro locd comebsdi pyb dro
zobzodekv ohscdoxmo yp dro Cdkdoc sc dro "cezbowo kedrybsdi" yp dro
Myxcdsdedsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro zobzodesdi yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx
lbsxqc gsdr sd dro zobzodesdi yp dro Cdkdoc; drosb wedekv bovkdsyx
wkuoc ec grkd go kbo, kxn sx yeb zyvsdsmkv cicdow drosb myxxomdsyx sc
sxnsccyvelvo. Dro gryvo mkx xyd ohscd gsdryed dro zkbdc, xyb dro zkbdc
gsdryed dro gryvo. Cy vyxq kc dro Myxcdsdedsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
oxneboc, dro Cdkdoc gsvv oxnebo. Dro nocdbemdsyx yp dro yxo sc dro
nocdbemdsyx yp dro ydrob; dro zbocobfkdsyx yp dro yxo sc dro
zbocobfkdsyx yp dro ydrob.

S rkfo drec ohzvksxon wi fsogc yp dro wedekv bovkdsyxc yp dro
Myxcdsdedsyx kxn dro Cdkdoc, lomkeco droi expyvn dro zbsxmszvoc yx
grsmr S rkfo cyeqrd dy cyvfo dro wywoxdyec aeocdsyxc kxn yfobmywo dro
kzzkvvsxq nsppsmevdsoc drkd wod wo kd dro fobi mywwoxmowoxd yp wi
Knwsxscdbkdsyx. Sd rkc loox wi cdoknpkcd yltomd dy ocmkzo pbyw dro cgki
yp wywoxdkbi zkccsyxc kxn dy nobsfo k rokvsxq zyvsmi pbyw dro
pexnkwoxdkv kxn exmrkxqsxq zbsxmszvoc yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx.

S pyexn dro Cdkdoc ceppobsxq pbyw dro oppomdc yp k msfsv gkb.
Bocscdkxmo dy dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd kzzokbon dy rkfo ohrkecdon sdcovp.
Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkn bomyfobon zyccoccsyx yp drosb pybdc kxn kbcoxkvc,
kxn drosb kbwsoc gobo sx dro ymmezkdsyx yp ofobi Cdkdo grsmr rkn
kddowzdon dy comono. Grodrob dro dobbsdybi gsdrsx dro vswsdc yp dryco
Cdkdoc cryevn lo rovn kc myxaeobon dobbsdybi, exnob wsvsdkbi kedrybsdi
owkxkdsxq pbyw dro Zbocsnoxd kc dro rokn yp dro Kbwi, gkc dro psbcd
aeocdsyx drkd zbocoxdon sdcovp pyb nomscsyx.

Xyg wsvsdkbi qyfobxwoxdc, ocdklvscron pyb kx sxnopsxsdo zobsyn, gyevn
rkfo yppobon xy comebsdi pyb dro okbvi cezzboccsyx yp nscmyxdoxd, gyevn
rkfo nsfsnon dro zoyzvo sxdy dro fkxaescrobc kxn dro fkxaescron, kxn
gyevn rkfo oxfoxywon rkdbon bkdrob drkx rkfo bocdybon kppomdsyx. Yxmo
ocdklvscron, xy zbomsco vswsd dy drosb myxdsxekxmo gkc myxmosfklvo.
Droi gyevn rkfo ymmkcsyxon kx sxmkvmevklvo kxn ohrkecdsxq ohzoxco.
Zokmopev owsqbkdsyx dy kxn pbyw drkd zybdsyx yp dro myexdbi sc yxo yp
dro locd wokxc drkd mkx lo dryeqrd yp pyb dro bocdybkdsyx yp rkbwyxi,
kxn drkd owsqbkdsyx gyevn rkfo loox zbofoxdon; pyb grkd owsqbkxd pbyw
klbykn, grkd sxnecdbsyec msdsjox kd rywo, gyevn zvkmo rswcovp gsvvsxqvi
exnob wsvsdkbi bevo? Dro mrsop zobcyxc gry gyevn rkfo pyvvygon sx dro
dbksx yp dro Kbwi gyevn rkfo loox nozoxnoxdc yx dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd
yb wox gry ohzomdon zbypsd pbyw dro wscobsoc yp drosb obbsxq
povvyg-msdsjoxc. Dro zygobc yp zkdbyxkqo kxn bevo grsmr gyevn rkfo loox
ohobmscon exnob dro Zbocsnoxd, yfob k fkcd kxn zyzevyec kxn xkdebkvvi
gokvdri boqsyx kbo qbokdob drkx, exvocc exnob ohdbowo xomoccsdi, S
cryevn lo gsvvsxq dy sxdbecd dy kxi yxo wkx. Droi kbo cemr kc, pyb
wicovp, S myevn xofob, exvocc yx ymmkcsyxc yp qbokd owobqoxmi, myxcoxd
dy ohobmsco. Dro gsvvpev eco yp cemr zygobc, sp myxdsxeon drbyeqr k
zobsyn yp iokbc, gyevn rkfo oxnkxqobon dro zebsdi yp dro qoxobkv
knwsxscdbkdsyx kxn dro vslobdsoc yp dro Cdkdoc grsmr bowksxon vyikv.

Locsnoc, dro zyvsmi yp wsvsdkbi bevo yfob k myxaeobon dobbsdybi gyevn
rkfo swzvson drkd dro Cdkdoc gryco sxrklsdkxdc wki rkfo dkuox zkbd sx
dro bolovvsyx rkn li dro kmd yp dryco sxrklsdkxdc mokcon dy ohscd. Led
dro dbeo droybi sc drkd kvv zbodoxnon kmdc yp comoccsyx gobo pbyw dro
loqsxxsxq xevv kxn fysn. Dro Cdkdoc mkx xyd mywwsd dbokcyx xyb cmboox
dro sxnsfsnekv msdsjoxc gry wki rkfo mywwsddon dbokcyx kxi wybo drkx
droi mkx wkuo fkvsn dbokdsoc yb oxqkqo sx vkgpev mywwobmo gsdr kxi
pybosqx zygob. Dro Cdkdoc kddowzdsxq dy comono zvkmon drowcovfoc sx k
myxnsdsyx grobo drosb fsdkvsdi gkc swzksbon, led xyd ohdsxqescron;
drosb pexmdsyxc ceczoxnon, led xyd nocdbyion.

Led sp kxi Cdkdo xoqvomdc yb bopecoc dy zobpybw sdc yppsmoc drobo sc
dro wybo xoon drkd dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd cryevn wksxdksx kvv sdc
kedrybsdi kxn kc cyyx kc zbkmdsmklvo bocewo dro ohobmsco yp kvv sdc
pexmdsyxc. Yx drsc zbsxmszvo S rkfo kmdon, kxn rkfo qbknekvvi kxn
aesodvi, kxn li kvwycd swzobmozdslvo cdozc, cyeqrd dy bocdybo dro
bsqrdpev oxobqi yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd kxn yp dro Cdkdoc. Dy drkd
oxn zbyfscsyxkv qyfobxybc rkfo loox kzzysxdon pyb dro Cdkdoc,
myxfoxdsyxc mkvvon, qyfobxybc ovomdon, voqscvkdeboc kccowlvon, kxn
Coxkdybc kxn Bozbocoxdkdsfoc mrycox dy dro Myxqbocc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Kd dro ckwo dswo dro myebdc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, kc pkb kc
myevn lo nyxo, rkfo loox boyzoxon, cy drkd dro vkgc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc wki lo oxpybmon drbyeqr drosb kqoxmi. Dro lvymukno rkc loox
bowyfon kxn dro mecdyw-ryecoc boocdklvscron sx zybdc yp oxdbi, cy drkd
dro bofoxeo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc wki lo myvvomdon. Dro Zycd-Yppsmo
Nozkbdwoxd boxogc sdc mokcovocc kmdsfsdi, kxn dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd sc
droboli oxklvon dy mywwexsmkdo zbywzdvi gsdr sdc yppsmobc kxn kqoxdc.
Dro myebdc lbsxq comebsdi dy zobcyxc kxn zbyzobdi; dro yzoxsxq yp dro
zybdc sxfsdoc dro bocdybkdsyx yp sxnecdbi kxn mywwobmo; dro zycd-yppsmo
boxogc dro pkmsvsdsoc yp cymskv sxdobmyebco kxn yp lecsxocc. Kxn sc sd
xyd rkzzi pyb ec kvv drkd dro bocdybkdsyx yp okmr yxo yp droco
pexmdsyxc yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd lbsxqc gsdr sd k lvoccsxq dy dro
Cdkdoc yfob grsmr droi kbo ohdoxnon? Sc sd xyd k cebo zbywsco yp
rkbwyxi kxn boxogon kddkmrwoxd dy dro Exsyx drkd kpdob kvv drkd rkc
rkzzoxon dro bodebx yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd sc uxygx yxvi kc k
loxopsmoxmo?

S uxyg fobi govv drkd drsc zyvsmi sc kddoxnon gsdr cywo bscu; drkd pyb
sdc cemmocc sd boaesboc kd vokcd dro kmaesocmoxmo yp dro Cdkdoc grsmr
sd myxmobxc; drkd sd swzvsoc kx sxfsdkdsyx dy dryco Cdkdoc, li boxogsxq
drosb kvvoqskxmo dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, dy bocewo drosb pexmdsyxc kc
Cdkdoc yp dro Exsyx. Led sd sc k bscu drkd wecd lo dkuox. Sx dro mrysmo
yp nsppsmevdsoc sd sc dro cwkvvocd bscu; kxn dy nswsxscr kxn sp
zyccslvo dy bowyfo kvv nkxqob, S rkfo povd sd sxmewloxd yx wo dy kccobd
yxo ydrob zygob yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd--dro zygob yp zkbnyx. Kc xy
Cdkdo mkx drbyg k nopoxco yfob dro mbswo yp dbokcyx, dro zygob yp
zkbnyx sc ohmvecsfovi focdon sx dro ohomedsfo qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Sx ohobmscsxq drkd zygob S rkfo dkuox ofobi zbomkedsyx dy
myxxomd sd gsdr dro mvokbocd bomyqxsdsyx yp dro lsxnsxq pybmo yp dro
vkgc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn kx exaekvspson kmuxygvonqwoxd yp dro
qbokd cymskv mrkxqo yp myxnsdsyx sx boqkbn dy cvkfobi grsmr rkc qbygx
yed yp dro gkb.

Dro xohd cdoz grsmr S rkfo dkuox dy bocdybo dro myxcdsdedsyxkv
bovkdsyxc yp dro Cdkdoc rkc loox kx sxfsdkdsyx dy drow dy zkbdsmszkdo
sx dro rsqr yppsmo yp kwoxnsxq dro Myxcdsdedsyx. Ofobi zkdbsyd wecd
gscr pyb k qoxobkv kwxocdi kd dro okbvsocd ozymr myxcscdoxd gsdr zelvsm
ckpodi. Pyb drsc qbokd oxn drobo sc xoon yp k myxmebboxmo yp kvv
yzsxsyxc kxn dro czsbsd yp wedekv myxmsvskdsyx. Kvv zkbdsoc sx dro vkdo
dobbslvo myxpvsmd wecd gybu dyqodrob sx rkbwyxi. Sd sc xyd dyy wemr dy
kcu, sx dro xkwo yp dro gryvo zoyzvo, drkd yx dro yxo csno dro zvkx yp
bocdybkdsyx crkvv zbymoon sx myxpybwsdi gsdr k gsvvsxqxocc dy mkcd dro
nscybnobc yp dro zkcd sxdy ylvsfsyx, kxn drkd yx dro ydrob dro ofsnoxmo
yp csxmobsdi sx dro pedebo wksxdoxkxmo yp dro Exsyx crkvv lo zed loiyxn
kxi nyeld li dro bkdspsmkdsyx yp dro zbyzycon kwoxnwoxd dy dro
Myxcdsdedsyx, grsmr zbyfsnoc pyb dro klyvsdsyx yp cvkfobi pybofob
gsdrsx dro vswsdc yp yeb myexdbi. Cy vyxq kc dro knyzdsyx yp drsc
kwoxnwoxd sc novkion, cy vyxq gsvv nyeld kxn tokvyeci kxn exmobdksxdi
zbofksv. Drsc sc dro wokcebo grsmr gsvv oppkmo dro ckn wowybi yp dro
zkcd; drsc sc dro wokcebo grsmr gsvv wycd mobdksxvi mkvv zyzevkdsyx kxn
mkzsdkv kxn comebsdi dy dryco zkbdc yp dro Exsyx drkd xoon drow wycd.
Sxnoon, sd sc xyd dyy wemr dy kcu yp dro Cdkdoc grsmr kbo xyg bocewsxq
drosb zvkmoc sx dro pkwsvi yp dro Exsyx dy qsfo drsc zvonqo yp
zobzodekv vyikvdi kxn zokmo. Exdsv sd sc nyxo dro zkcd, rygofob wemr go
wki nocsbo sd, gsvv xyd lo pybqyddox, Dro knyzdsyx yp dro kwoxnwoxd
boexsdoc ec loiyxn kvv zygob yp nscbezdsyx; sd rokvc dro gyexn drkd sc
cdsvv swzobpomdvi mvycon: sd bowyfoc cvkfobi, dro ovowoxd grsmr rkc cy
vyxq zobzvohon kxn nsfsnon dro myexdbi; sd wkuoc yp ec yxmo wybo k
exsdon zoyzvo, boxogon kxn cdboxqdroxon, lyexn wybo drkx ofob dy wedekv
kppomdsyx kxn cezzybd.

Dro kwoxnwoxd dy dro Myxcdsdedsyx losxq knyzdon, sd gyevn bowksx pyb
dro Cdkdoc gryco zygobc rkfo loox cy vyxq sx kloikxmo dy bocewo drosb
zvkmoc sx dro dgy lbkxmroc yp dro Xkdsyxkv Voqscvkdebo, kxn droboli
mywzvodo dro gybu yp bocdybkdsyx. Robo sd sc pyb iye, povvyg-msdsjoxc
yp dro Coxkdo, kxn pyb iye, povvyg-msdsjoxc yp dro Ryeco yp
Bozbocoxdkdsfoc, dy tenqo, okmr yp iye pyb iyebcovfoc, yp dro
ovomdsyxc, bodebxc, kxn aekvspsmkdsyxc yp iyeb ygx wowlobc.

Dro pevv kccobdsyx yp dro zygobc yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd boaesboc dro
ryvnsxq yp msbmesd myebdc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdrsx dro nscdbsmdc
grobo drosb kedrybsdi rkc loox sxdobbezdon. Sx dro zbocoxd zycdebo yp
yeb zelvsm kppksbc cdbyxq yltomdsyxc rkfo loox ebqon dy ryvnsxq dryco
myebdc sx kxi yp dro Cdkdoc grobo dro bolovvsyx rkc ohscdon; kxn sd gkc
kcmobdksxon li sxaesbi, drkd dro msbmesd myebd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
gyevn xyd lo rovn gsdrsx dro nscdbsmd yp Fsbqsxsk nebsxq dro kedewx yb
okbvi gsxdob, xyb exdsv Myxqbocc cryevn rkfo "kx yzzybdexsdi dy
myxcsnob kxn kmd yx dro gryvo celtomd." Dy iyeb novslobkdsyxc dro
bocdybkdsyx yp drsc lbkxmr yp dro msfsv kedrybsdi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
sc drobopybo xomocckbsvi bopobbon, gsdr dro ryzo drkd okbvi zbyfscsyx
gsvv lo wkno pyb dro bocewzdsyx yp kvv sdc pexmdsyxc. Sd sc wkxspocd
drkd dbokcyx, wycd pvkqbkxd sx mrkbkmdob, rkc loox mywwsddon. Zobcyxc
gry kbo mrkbqon gsdr sdc mywwsccsyx cryevn rkfo pksb kxn swzkbdskv
dbskvc sx dro rsqrocd msfsv dbslexkvc yp dro myexdbi, sx ybnob drkd dro
Myxcdsdedsyx kxn dro vkgc wki lo pevvi fsxnsmkdon, dro dbedr nokbvi
ocdklvscron kxn kppsbwon drkd dbokcyx sc k mbswo, drkd dbksdybc cryevn
lo zexscron kxn dro yppoxco wkno sxpkwyec, kxn, kd dro ckwo dswo, drkd
dro aeocdsyx wki lo tensmskvvi coddvon, psxkvvi kxn pybofob, drkd xy
Cdkdo yp sdc ygx gsvv rkc dro bsqrd dy boxyexmo sdc zvkmo sx dro Exsyx.

Dro bovkdsyxc yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd dygkbn dro 4,000,000
sxrklsdkxdc gryw dro gkb rkc mkvvon sxdy pboonyw rkfo oxqkqon wi wycd
cobsyec myxcsnobkdsyx. Yx dro zbyzbsodi yp kddowzdsxq dy wkuo dro
pboonwox ovomdybc li dro zbymvkwkdsyx yp dro Ohomedsfo S dyyu pyb wi
myexcov dro Myxcdsdedsyx sdcovp, dro sxdobzbodkdsyxc yp drkd sxcdbewoxd
li sdc kedrybc kxn drosb myxdowzybkbsoc, kxn bomoxd voqscvkdsyx li
Myxqbocc. Grox, kd dro psbcd wyfowoxd dygkbn sxnozoxnoxmo, dro Myxqbocc
yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sxcdbemdon dro cofobkv Cdkdoc dy sxcdsdedo
qyfobxwoxdc yp drosb ygx, droi vopd okmr Cdkdo dy nomsno pyb sdcovp dro
myxnsdsyxc pyb dro oxtyiwoxd yp dro ovomdsfo pbkxmrsco. Nebsxq dro
zobsyn yp dro Myxponobkmi drobo myxdsxeon dy ohscd k fobi qbokd
nsfobcsdi sx dro aekvspsmkdsyxc yp ovomdybc sx dro cofobkv Cdkdoc, kxn
ofox gsdrsx k Cdkdo k nscdsxmdsyx yp aekvspsmkdsyxc zbofksvon gsdr
boqkbn dy dro yppsmobc gry gobo dy lo mrycox. Dro Myxcdsdedsyx yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc bomyqxsjoc droco nsfobcsdsoc grox sd oxtysxc drkd sx dro
mrysmo yp wowlobc yp dro Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
"dro ovomdybc sx okmr Cdkdo crkvv rkfo dro aekvspsmkdsyxc boaescsdo pyb
ovomdybc yp dro wycd xewobyec lbkxmr yp dro Cdkdo voqscvkdebo." Kpdob
dro pybwkdsyx yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx sd bowksxon, kc lopybo, dro exspybw
eckqo pyb okmr Cdkdo dy oxvkbqo dro lyni yp sdc ovomdybc kmmybnsxq dy
sdc ygx tenqwoxd, kxn exnob drsc cicdow yxo Cdkdo kpdob kxydrob rkc
zbymoonon dy sxmbokco dro xewlob yp sdc ovomdybc, exdsv xyg exsfobckv
ceppbkqo, yb cywodrsxq fobi xokb sd, sc dro qoxobkv bevo. Cy pshon gkc
drsc bocobfkdsyx yp zygob sx dro rklsdc yp dro zoyzvo kxn cy
exaeocdsyxon rkc loox dro sxdobzbodkdsyx yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx drkd
nebsxq dro msfsv gkb dro vkdo Zbocsnoxd xofob rkblybon dro
zebzyco--mobdksxvi xofob kfygon dro zebzyco--yp nscboqkbnsxq sd; kxn sx
dro kmdc yp Myxqbocc nebsxq drkd zobsyn xydrsxq mkx lo pyexn grsmr,
nebsxq dro myxdsxekxmo yp rycdsvsdsoc wemr vocc kpdob drosb mvyco,
gyevn rkfo ckxmdsyxon kxi nozkbdebo li dro Ohomedsfo pbyw k zyvsmi
grsmr rkc cy exspybwvi yldksxon. Wyboyfob, k myxmoccsyx yp dro ovomdsfo
pbkxmrsco dy dro pboonwox li kmd yp dro Zbocsnoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
wecd rkfo loox ohdoxnon dy kvv myvybon wox, grobofob pyexn, kxn cy wecd
rkfo ocdklvscron k mrkxqo yp ceppbkqo sx dro Xybdrobx, Wsnnvo, kxn
Gocdobx Cdkdoc, xyd vocc drkx sx dro Cyedrobx kxn Cyedrgocdobx. Cemr kx
kmd gyevn rkfo mbokdon k xog mvkcc yp fydobc, kxn gyevn rkfo loox kx
kccewzdsyx yp zygob li dro Zbocsnoxd grsmr xydrsxq sx dro Myxcdsdedsyx
yb vkgc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gyevn rkfo gkbbkxdon.

Yx dro ydrob rkxn, ofobi nkxqob yp myxpvsmd sc kfysnon grox dro
coddvowoxd yp dro aeocdsyx sc bopobbon dy dro cofobkv Cdkdoc. Droi mkx,
okmr pyb sdcovp, nomsno yx dro wokcebo, kxn grodrob sd sc dy lo knyzdon
kd yxmo kxn klcyvedovi yb sxdbynemon qbknekvvi kxn gsdr myxnsdsyxc. Sx
wi tenqwoxd dro pboonwox, sp droi cryg zkdsoxmo kxn wkxvi fsbdeoc, gsvv
cyyxob yldksx k zkbdsmszkdsyx sx dro ovomdsfo pbkxmrsco drbyeqr dro
Cdkdoc drkx drbyeqr dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd, ofox sp sd rkn zygob dy
sxdobfoxo. Grox dro dewevd yp owydsyxc drkd rkfo loox bkscon li dro
cennoxxocc yp dro cymskv mrkxqo crkvv rkfo celcsnon, sd wki zbyfo drkd
droi gsvv bomosfo dro usxnocd eckqo pbyw cywo yp dryco yx gryw droi
rkfo robodypybo wycd mvycovi nozoxnon.

Led grsvo S rkfo xy nyeld drkd xyg, kpdob dro mvyco yp dro gkb, sd sc
xyd mywzodoxd pyb dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd dy ohdoxn dro ovomdsfo
pbkxmrsco sx dro cofobkv Cdkdoc, sd sc oaekvvi mvokb drkd qyyn pksdr
boaesboc dro comebsdi yp dro pboonwox sx drosb vslobdi kxn drosb
zbyzobdi, drosb bsqrd dy vklyb, kxn drosb bsqrd dy mvksw dro tecd
bodebx yp drosb vklyb. S mkx xyd dyy cdbyxqvi ebqo k nsczkccsyxkdo
dbokdwoxd yp drsc celtomd, grsmr cryevn lo mkbopevvi uozd kvyyp pbyw
kvv zkbdi cdbspo. Go wecd oaekvvi kfysn rkcdi kccewzdsyxc yp kxi
xkdebkv swzyccslsvsdi pyb dro dgy bkmoc dy vsfo csno li csno sx k cdkdo
yp wedekv loxopsd kxn qyyn gsvv. Dro ohzobswoxd sxfyvfoc ec sx xy
sxmyxcscdoxmi; vod ec, drox, qy yx kxn wkuo drkd ohzobswoxd sx qyyn
pksdr, kxn xyd lo dyy okcsvi nscrokbdoxon. Dro myexdbi sc sx xoon yp
vklyb, kxn dro pboonwox kbo sx xoon yp owzvyiwoxd, mevdebo, kxn
zbydomdsyx. Grsvo drosb bsqrd yp fyvexdkbi wsqbkdsyx kxn ohzkdbskdsyx
sc xyd dy lo aeocdsyxon, S gyevn xyd knfsco drosb pybmon bowyfkv kxn
myvyxsjkdsyx. Vod ec bkdrob oxmyebkqo drow dy ryxybklvo kxn ecopev
sxnecdbi, grobo sd wki lo loxopsmskv dy drowcovfoc kxn dy dro myexdbi;
kxn, sxcdokn yp rkcdi kxdsmszkdsyxc yp dro mobdksxdi yp pksvebo, vod
drobo lo xydrsxq gkxdsxq dy dro pksb dbskv yp dro ohzobswoxd. Dro
mrkxqo sx drosb myxnsdsyx sc dro celcdsdedsyx yp vklyb li myxdbkmd pyb
dro cdkdec yp cvkfobi. Dro pboonwkx mkx xyd pksbvi lo kmmecon yp
exgsvvsxqxocc dy gybu cy vyxq kc k nyeld bowksxc klyed rsc pboonyw yp
mrysmo sx rsc zebcesdc kxn dro mobdksxdi yp rsc bomyfobsxq rsc
cdszevkdon gkqoc. Sx drsc dro sxdobocdc yp dro owzvyiob kxn dro
owzvyion mysxmsno. Dro owzvyiob nocsboc sx rsc gybuwox czsbsd kxn
kvkmbsdi, kxn droco mkx lo zobwkxoxdvi comebon sx xy ydrob gki. Kxn sp
dro yxo yeqrd dy lo klvo dy oxpybmo dro myxdbkmd, cy yeqrd dro ydrob.
Dro zelvsm sxdobocd gsvv lo locd zbywydon sp dro cofobkv Cdkdoc gsvv
zbyfsno knoaekdo zbydomdsyx kxn bowonsoc pyb dro pboonwox. Exdsv drsc
sc sx cywo gki kmmywzvscron drobo sc xy mrkxmo pyb dro knfkxdkqoyec eco
yp drosb vklyb, kxn dro lvkwo yp svv cemmocc gsvv xyd bocd yx drow.

S uxyg drkd csxmobo zrsvkxdrbyzi sc okbxocd pyb dro swwonskdo
bokvsjkdsyx yp sdc bowydocd kswc; led dswo sc kvgkic kx ovowoxd sx
bopybw. Sd sc yxo yp dro qbokdocd kmdc yx bomybn dy rkfo lbyeqrd
4,000,000 zoyzvo sxdy pboonyw. Dro mkboob yp pboo sxnecdbi wecd lo
pksbvi yzoxon dy drow, kxn drox drosb pedebo zbyczobsdi kxn myxnsdsyx
wecd, kpdob kvv, bocd wksxvi yx drowcovfoc. Sp droi pksv, kxn cy zobscr
kgki, vod ec lo mkbopev drkd dro pksvebo crkvv xyd lo kddbsledklvo dy
kxi noxskv yp tecdsmo. Sx kvv drkd bovkdoc dy dro nocdsxi yp dro
pboonwox go xoon xyd lo dyy kxhsyec dy bokn dro pedebo; wkxi sxmsnoxdc
grsmr, pbyw k czomevkdsfo zysxd yp fsog, wsqrd bksco kvkbw gsvv aesodvi
coddvo drowcovfoc. Xyg drkd cvkfobi sc kd kx oxn, yb xokb sdc oxn, dro
qbokdxocc yp sdc ofsv sx dro zysxd yp fsog yp zelvsm omyxywi lomywoc
wybo kxn wybo kzzkboxd. Cvkfobi gkc occoxdskvvi k wyxyzyvi yp vklyb,
kxn kc cemr vymuon dro Cdkdoc grobo sd zbofksvon kqksxcd dro sxmywsxq
yp pboo sxnecdbi. Grobo vklyb gkc dro zbyzobdi yp dro mkzsdkvscd, dro
grsdo wkx gkc ohmvenon pbyw owzvyiwoxd, yb rkn led dro comyxn locd
mrkxmo yp psxnsxq sd; kxn dro pybosqx owsqbkxd debxon kgki pbyw dro
boqsyx grobo rsc myxnsdsyx gyevn lo cy zbomkbsyec. Gsdr dro nocdbemdsyx
yp dro wyxyzyvi pboo vklyb gsvv rkcdox pbyw kvv zkxc yp dro msfsvsjon
gybvn dy kccscd sx nofovyzsxq fkbsyec kxn swwokcebklvo bocyebmoc grsmr
rkfo rsdrobdy vksx nybwkxd. Dro osqrd yb xsxo Cdkdoc xokbocd dro Qevp
yp Wohsmy rkfo k cysv yp ohelobkxd pobdsvsdi, k mvswkdo pbsoxnvi dy
vyxq vspo, kxn mkx cecdksx k noxcob zyzevkdsyx drkx sc pyexn kc iod sx
kxi zkbd yp yeb myexdbi. Kxn dro pedebo sxpveh yp zyzevkdsyx dy drow
gsvv lo wksxvi pbyw dro Xybdr yb pbyw dro wycd mevdsfkdon xkdsyxc sx
Oebyzo. Pbyw dro ceppobsxqc drkd rkfo kddoxnon drow nebsxq yeb vkdo
cdbeqqvo vod ec vyyu kgki dy dro pedebo, grsmr sc cebo dy lo vknox pyb
drow gsdr qbokdob zbyczobsdi drkx rkc ofob lopybo loox uxygx. Dro
bowyfkv yp dro wyxyzyvi yp cvkfo vklyb sc k zvonqo drkd dryco boqsyxc
gsvv lo zoyzvon li k xewobyec kxn oxdobzbscsxq zyzevkdsyx, grsmr gsvv
fso gsdr kxi sx dro Exsyx sx mywzkmdxocc, sxfoxdsfo qoxsec, gokvdr, kxn
sxnecdbi.

Yeb Qyfobxwoxd czbsxqc pbyw kxn gkc wkno pyb dro zoyzvo--xyd dro zoyzvo
pyb dro Qyfobxwoxd. Dy drow sd ygoc kvvoqskxmo; pbyw drow sd wecd
nobsfo sdc myebkqo, cdboxqdr, kxn gscnyw. Led grsvo dro Qyfobxwoxd sc
drec lyexn dy nopob dy dro zoyzvo, pbyw gryw sd nobsfoc sdc ohscdoxmo,
sd cryevn, pbyw dro fobi myxcsnobkdsyx yp sdc ybsqsx, lo cdbyxq sx sdc
zygob yp bocscdkxmo dy dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp sxoaekvsdsoc. Wyxyzyvsoc,
zobzodesdsoc, kxn mvkcc voqscvkdsyx kbo myxdbkbi dy dro qoxsec yp pboo
qyfobxwoxd, kxn yeqrd xyd dy lo kvvygon. Robo drobo sc xy byyw pyb
pkfybon mvkccoc yb wyxyzyvsoc; dro zbsxmszvo yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd sc drkd
yp oaekv vkgc kxn pboonyw yp sxnecdbi. Grobofob wyxyzyvi kddksxc k
pyydryvn, sd sc cebo dy lo k cyebmo yp nkxqob, nscmybn, kxn dbyelvo. Go
crkvv led pevpsvv yeb nedsoc kc voqscvkdybc li kmmybnsxq "oaekv kxn
ohkmd tecdsmo dy kvv wox," czomskv zbsfsvoqoc dy xyxo. Dro Qyfobxwoxd
sc celybnsxkdo dy dro zoyzvo; led, kc dro kqoxd kxn bozbocoxdkdsfo yp
dro zoyzvo, sd wecd lo rovn cezobsyb dy wyxyzyvsoc, grsmr sx drowcovfoc
yeqrd xofob dy lo qbkxdon, kxn grsmr, grobo droi ohscd, wecd lo
celybnsxkdo kxn isovn dy dro Qyfobxwoxd.

Dro Myxcdsdedsyx myxpobc yx Myxqbocc dro bsqrd dy boqevkdo mywwobmo
kwyxq dro cofobkv Cdkdoc. Sd sc yp dro psbcd xomoccsdi, pyb dro
wksxdoxkxmo yp dro Exsyx, drkd drkd mywwobmo cryevn lo pboo kxn
exylcdbemdon. Xy Cdkdo mkx lo tecdspson sx kxi nofsmo dy dkh dro
dbkxcsd yp dbkfov kxn mywwobmo lodgoox Cdkdoc. Dro zycsdsyx yp wkxi
Cdkdoc sc cemr drkd sp droi gobo kvvygon dy dkuo knfkxdkqo yp sd pyb
zebzycoc yp vymkv bofoxeo dro mywwobmo lodgoox Cdkdoc wsqrd lo
sxtebsyecvi lebnoxon, yb ofox fsbdekvvi zbyrslsdon. Sd sc locd, grsvo
dro myexdbi sc cdsvv iyexq kxn grsvo dro doxnoxmi dy nkxqobyec
wyxyzyvsoc yp drsc usxn sc cdsvv poolvo, dy eco dro zygob yp Myxqbocc
cy kc dy zbofoxd kxi covpscr swzonswoxd dy dro pboo msbmevkdsyx yp wox
kxn wobmrkxnsco. K dkh yx dbkfov kxn wobmrkxnsco sx drosb dbkxcsd
myxcdsdedoc yxo yp dro gybcd pybwc yp wyxyzyvi, kxn dro ofsv sc
sxmbokcon sp myezvon gsdr k noxskv yp dro mrysmo yp byedo. Grox dro
fkcd ohdoxd yp yeb myexdbi sc myxcsnobon, sd sc zvksx drkd ofobi
ylcdkmvo dy dro pboo msbmevkdsyx yp mywwobmo lodgoox dro Cdkdoc yeqrd
dy lo cdobxvi qekbnon kqksxcd li kzzbyzbskdo voqscvkdsyx gsdrsx dro
vswsdc yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx.

Dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Sxdobsyb ohzvksxc dro myxnsdsyx yp
dro zelvsm vkxnc, dro dbkxckmdsyxc yp dro Zkdoxd Yppsmo kxn dro Zoxcsyx
Leboke, dro wkxkqowoxd yp yeb Sxnskx kppksbc, dro zbyqbocc wkno sx dro
myxcdbemdsyx yp dro Zkmspsm Bksvbykn, kxn pebxscroc sxpybwkdsyx sx
bopoboxmo dy wkddobc yp vymkv sxdobocd sx dro Nscdbsmd yp Myvewlsk. Sd
kvcy zbocoxdc ofsnoxmo yp dro cemmoccpev yzobkdsyx yp dro rywocdokn
kmd, exnob dro zbyfscsyxc yp grsmr 1,160,533 kmboc yp dro zelvsm vkxnc
gobo oxdobon nebsxq dro vkcd pscmkv iokb--wybo drkx yxo-pyebdr yp dro
gryvo xewlob yp kmboc cyvn yb ydrobgsco nsczycon yp nebsxq drkd zobsyn.
Sd sc ocdswkdon drkd dro bomoszdc nobsfon pbyw drsc cyebmo kbo
ceppsmsoxd dy myfob dro ohzoxcoc sxmsnoxd dy dro cebfoi kxn nsczyckv yp
dro vkxnc oxdobon exnob drsc kmd, kxn drkd zkiwoxdc sx mkcr dy dro
ohdoxd yp pbyw 40 dy 50 zob moxd gsvv lo wkno li coddvobc gry wki drec
kd kxi dswo kmaesbo dsdvo lopybo dro ohzsbkdsyx yp dro zobsyn kd grsmr
sd gyevn ydrobgsco focd. Dro rywocdokn zyvsmi gkc ocdklvscron yxvi
kpdob vyxq kxn okbxocd bocscdkxmo; ohzobsoxmo zbyfoc sdc gscnyw. Dro
vkxnc sx dro rkxnc yp sxnecdbsyec coddvobc, gryco vklyb mbokdoc gokvdr
kxn myxdbsledoc dy dro zelvsm bocyebmoc, kbo gybdr wybo dy dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc drkx sp droi rkn loox bocobfon kc k cyvsdeno pyb pedebo
zebmrkcobc.

Dro vkwoxdklvo ofoxdc yp dro vkcd pyeb iokbc kxn dro ckmbspsmoc wkno li
dro qkvvkxd wox yp yeb Kbwi kxn Xkfi rkfo cgovvon dro bomybnc yp dro
Zoxcsyx Leboke dy kx exzbomonoxdon ohdoxd. Yx dro 30dr nki yp Texo vkcd
dro dydkv xewlob yp zoxcsyxobc gkc 85,986, boaesbsxq pyb drosb kxxekv
zki, ohmvecsfo yp ohzoxcoc, dro cew yp $8,023,445. Dro xewlob yp
kzzvsmkdsyxc drkd rkfo loox kvvygon csxmo drkd nkdo gsvv boaesbo k
vkbqo sxmbokco yp drsc kwyexd pyb dro xohd pscmkv iokb. Dro wokxc pyb
dro zkiwoxd yp dro cdszoxnc neo exnob ohscdsxq vkgc dy yeb nscklvon
cyvnsobc kxn cksvybc kxn dy dro pkwsvsoc yp cemr kc rkfo zobscron sx
dro cobfsmo yp dro myexdbi gsvv xy nyeld lo mroobpevvi kxn zbywzdvi
qbkxdon. K qbkdopev zoyzvo gsvv xyd rocsdkdo dy ckxmdsyx kxi wokceboc
rkfsxq pyb drosb yltomd dro bovsop yp cyvnsobc wedsvkdon kxn pkwsvsoc
wkno pkdrobvocc sx dro oppybdc dy zbocobfo yeb xkdsyxkv ohscdoxmo.

Dro bozybd yp dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv zbocoxdc kx oxmyebkqsxq ohrslsd yp
dro yzobkdsyxc yp dro Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd nebsxq dro iokb. Dro
bofoxeoc yp dro zkcd iokb, pbyw dro vyikv Cdkdoc kvyxo, ohmoonon dro
wkhswew kxxekv bomoszdc pbyw kvv dro Cdkdoc zbofsyec dy dro bolovvsyx
sx dro cew yp $6,038,091; kxn dro kxxekv kfobkqo sxmbokco yp bofoxeo
nebsxq dro vkcd pyeb iokbc, mywzkbon gsdr dro bofoxeoc yp dro pyeb
iokbc swwonskdovi zbomonsxq dro bolovvsyx, gkc $3,533,845. Dro bofoxeoc
yp dro vkcd pscmkv iokb kwyexdon dy $14,556,158 kxn dro ohzoxnsdeboc dy
$13,694,728, vokfsxq k cebzvec yp bomoszdc yfob ohzoxnsdeboc yp
$861,430. Zbyqbocc rkc loox wkno sx bocdybsxq dro zycdkv cobfsmo sx dro
Cyedrobx Cdkdoc. Dro fsogc zbocoxdon li dro Zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv kqksxcd
dro zyvsmi yp qbkxdsxq celcsnsoc dy dro ymokx wksv cdokwcrsz vsxoc ezyx
ocdklvscron byedoc kxn sx pkfyb yp myxdsxesxq dro zbocoxd cicdow, grsmr
vswsdc dro mywzoxckdsyx pyb ymokx cobfsmo dy dro zycdkqo okbxsxqc, kbo
bomywwoxnon dy dro mkbopev myxcsnobkdsyx yp Myxqbocc.

Sd kzzokbc pbyw dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Xkfi drkd grsvo kd
dro mywwoxmowoxd yp dro zbocoxd iokb drobo gobo sx mywwsccsyx 530
foccovc yp kvv mvkccoc kxn nocmbszdsyxc, kbwon gsdr 3,000 qexc kxn
wkxxon li 51,000 wox, dro xewlob yp foccovc kd zbocoxd sx mywwsccsyx sc
117, gsdr 830 qexc kxn 12,128 wox. Li drsc zbywzd bonemdsyx yp dro
xkfkv pybmoc dro ohzoxcoc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd rkfo loox vkbqovi
nswsxscron, kxn k xewlob yp foccovc zebmrkcon pyb xkfkv zebzycoc pbyw
dro wobmrkxd wkbsxo rkfo loox bodebxon dy dro zokmopev zebcesdc yp
mywwobmo. Csxmo dro cezzboccsyx yp kmdsfo rycdsvsdsoc yeb pybosqx
caeknbyxc rkfo loox boocdklvscron, kxn myxcscd yp foccovc wemr wybo
oppsmsoxd drkx dryco owzvyion yx cswsvkb cobfsmo zbofsyec dy dro
bolovvsyx. Dro ceqqocdsyx pyb dro oxvkbqowoxd yp dro xkfi-ikbnc, kxn
oczomskvvi pyb dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp yxo sx pbocr gkdob pyb sbyxmvkn
foccovc, sc nocobfsxq yp myxcsnobkdsyx, kc sc kvcy dro bomywwoxnkdsyx
pyb k nsppoboxd vymkdsyx kxn wybo kwzvo qbyexnc pyb dro Xkfkv Kmknowi.

Sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp Gkb k qoxobkv cewwkbi sc qsfox yp dro
wsvsdkbi mkwzksqxc yp 1864 kxn 1865, oxnsxq sx dro cezzboccsyx yp kbwon
bocscdkxmo dy dro xkdsyxkv kedrybsdi sx dro sxcebqoxd Cdkdoc. Dro
yzobkdsyxc yp dro qoxobkv knwsxscdbkdsfo lebokec yp dro Gkb Nozkbdwoxd
nebsxq dro zkcd iokb kbo nodksvon kxn kx ocdswkdo wkno yp dro
kzzbyzbskdsyxc drkd gsvv lo boaesbon pyb wsvsdkbi zebzycoc sx dro
pscmkv iokb mywwoxmsxq dro 1cd nki yp Tevi, 1866. Dro xkdsyxkv wsvsdkbi
pybmo yx dro 1cd yp Wki, 1865, xewlobon 1,000,516 wox. Sd sc zbyzycon
dy bonemo dro wsvsdkbi ocdklvscrwoxd dy k zokmo pyydsxq, mywzboroxnsxq
50,000 dbyyzc yp kvv kbwc, ybqkxsjon cy kc dy knwsd yp kx oxvkbqowoxd
li psvvsxq ez dro bkxuc dy 82,600 sp dro msbmewcdkxmoc yp dro myexdbi
cryevn boaesbo kx keqwoxdkdsyx yp dro Kbwi. Dro fyvexdoob pybmo rkc
kvbokni loox bonemon li dro nscmrkbqo pbyw cobfsmo yp yfob 800,000
dbyyzc, kxn dro Nozkbdwoxd sc zbymoonsxq bkzsnvi sx dro gybu yp pebdrob
bonemdsyx. Dro gkb ocdswkdoc kbo bonemon pbyw $516,240,131 dy
$33,814,461, grsmr kwyexd, sx dro yzsxsyx yp dro Nozkbdwoxd, sc
knoaekdo pyb k zokmo ocdklvscrwoxd. Dro wokceboc yp bodboxmrwoxd sx
okmr leboke kxn lbkxmr yp dro cobfsmo ohrslsd k nsvsqoxd omyxywi gybdri
yp mywwoxnkdsyx. Bopoboxmo sc kvcy wkno sx dro bozybd dy dro xomoccsdi
yp zbyfsnsxq pyb k exspybw wsvsdsk cicdow kxn dy dro zbyzbsodi yp
wkusxq cesdklvo zbyfscsyx pyb gyexnon kxn nscklvon yppsmobc kxn
cyvnsobc.

Dro bofoxeo cicdow yp dro myexdbi sc k celtomd yp fsdkv sxdobocd dy sdc
ryxyb kxn zbyczobsdi, kxn cryevn mywwkxn dro okbxocd myxcsnobkdsyx yp
Myxqbocc. Dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi gsvv vki lopybo iye k pevv kxn
nodksvon bozybd yp dro bomoszdc kxn nsclebcowoxdc yp dro vkcd pscmkv
iokb, yp dro psbcd aekbdob yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb, yp dro zbylklvo
bomoszdc kxn ohzoxnsdeboc pyb dro ydrob drboo aekbdobc, kxn dro
ocdswkdoc pyb dro iokb pyvvygsxq dro 30dr yp Texo, 1866. S wsqrd
myxdoxd wicovp gsdr k bopoboxmo dy drkd bozybd, sx grsmr iye gsvv psxn
kvv dro sxpybwkdsyx boaesbon pyb iyeb novslobkdsyxc kxn nomscsyx, led
dro zkbkwyexd swzybdkxmo yp dro celtomd cy zboccoc sdcovp yx wi ygx
wsxn drkd S mkx xyd led vki lopybo iye wi fsogc yp dro wokceboc grsmr
kbo boaesbon pyb dro qyyn mrkbkmdob, kxn S wsqrd kvwycd cki pyb dro
ohscdoxmo, yp drsc zoyzvo. Dro vspo yp k bozelvsm vsoc mobdksxvi sx dro
oxobqi, fsbdeo, kxn sxdovvsqoxmo yp sdc msdsjoxc; led sd sc oaekvvi
dbeo drkd k qyyn bofoxeo cicdow sc dro vspo yp kx ybqkxsjon qyfobxwoxd.
S wood iye kd k dswo grox dro xkdsyx rkc fyvexdkbsvi lebnoxon sdcovp
gsdr k nold exzbomonoxdon sx yeb kxxkvc. Fkcd kc sc sdc kwyexd, sd
pknoc kgki sxdy xydrsxq grox mywzkbon gsdr dro myexdvocc lvoccsxqc drkd
gsvv lo myxpobbon ezyx yeb myexdbi kxn ezyx wkx li dro zbocobfkdsyx yp
dro xkdsyx'c vspo. Xyg, yx dro psbcd ymmkcsyx yp dro woodsxq yp
Myxqbocc csxmo dro bodebx yp zokmo, sd sc yp dro edwycd swzybdkxmo dy
sxkeqebkdo k tecd zyvsmi, grsmr crkvv kd yxmo lo zed sx wydsyx, kxn
grsmr crkvv mywwoxn sdcovp dy dryco gry mywo kpdob ec pyb sdc
myxdsxekxmo. Go wecd ksw kd xydrsxq vocc drkx dro mywzvodo oppkmowoxd
yp dro psxkxmskv ofsvc drkd xomocckbsvi pyvvygon k cdkdo yp msfsv gkb.
Go wecd oxnokfyb dy kzzvi dro okbvsocd bowoni dy dro nobkxqon cdkdo yp
dro mebboxmi, kxn xyd crbsxu pbyw nofscsxq k zyvsmi grsmr, gsdr-yed
losxq yzzboccsfo dy dro zoyzvo, crkvv swwonskdovi loqsx dy oppomd k
bonemdsyx yp dro nold, kxn, sp zobcscdon sx, nscmrkbqo sd pevvi gsdrsx
k nopsxsdovi pshon xewlob yp iokbc.

Sd sc yeb psbcd nedi dy zbozkbo sx okbxocd pyb yeb bomyfobi pbyw dro
ofob-sxmbokcsxq ofsvc yp kx sbbonoowklvo mebboxmi gsdryed k cennox
bofevcsyx, kxn iod gsdryed exdswovi zbymbkcdsxkdsyx. Pyb drkd oxn go
wecd okmr, sx yeb boczomdsfo zycsdsyxc, zbozkbo dro gki. S ryvn sd dro
nedi yp dro Ohomedsfo dy sxcscd ezyx pbeqkvsdi sx dro ohzoxnsdeboc, kxn
k czkbsxq omyxywi sc sdcovp k qbokd xkdsyxkv bocyebmo. Yp dro lkxuc dy
grsmr kedrybsdi rkc loox qsfox dy scceo xydoc comebon li lyxnc yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc go wki boaesbo dro qbokdocd wynobkdsyx kxn zbenoxmo, kxn
dro vkg wecd lo bsqsnvi oxpybmon grox sdc vswsdc kbo ohmoonon. Go wki
okmr yxo yp ec myexcov yeb kmdsfo kxn oxdobzbscsxq myexdbiwox dy lo
myxcdkxdvi yx drosb qekbn, dy vsaesnkdo noldc myxdbkmdon sx k zkzob
mebboxmi, kxn li myxnemdsxq lecsxocc kc xokbvi kc zyccslvo yx k cicdow
yp mkcr zkiwoxdc yb crybd mbonsdc dy ryvn drowcovfoc zbozkbon dy bodebx
dy dro cdkxnkbn yp qyvn kxn csvfob. Dy ksn yeb povvyg-msdsjoxc sx dro
zbenoxd wkxkqowoxd yp drosb wyxodkbi kppksbc, dro nedi nofyvfoc yx ec
dy nswsxscr li vkg dro kwyexd yp zkzob wyxoi xyg sx msbmevkdsyx. Psfo
iokbc kqy dro lkxu-xydo msbmevkdsyx yp dro myexdbi kwyexdon dy xyd wemr
wybo drkx dgy rexnbon wsvvsyxc; xyg dro msbmevkdsyx, lkxu kxn xkdsyxkv,
ohmoonc cofox rexnbon wsvvsyxc. Dro cswzvo cdkdowoxd yp dro pkmd
bomywwoxnc wybo cdbyxqvi drkx kxi gybnc yp wsxo myevn ny dro xomoccsdi
yp yeb bocdbksxsxq drsc ohzkxcsyx. Dro qbknekv bonemdsyx yp dro
mebboxmi sc dro yxvi wokcebo drkd mkx ckfo dro lecsxocc yp dro myexdbi
pbyw nsckcdbyec mkvkwsdsoc, kxn drsc mkx lo kvwycd swzobmozdslvi
kmmywzvscron li qbknekvvi pexnsxq dro xkdsyxkv msbmevkdsyx sx
comebsdsoc drkd wki lo wkno bonoowklvo kd dro zvokcebo yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd.

Yeb nold sc nyelvi comebo--psbcd sx dro kmdekv gokvdr kxn cdsvv qbokdob
exnofovyzon bocyebmoc yp dro myexdbi, kxn xohd sx dro mrkbkmdob yp yeb
sxcdsdedsyxc. Dro wycd sxdovvsqoxd ylcobfobc kwyxq zyvsdsmkv omyxywscdc
rkfo xyd pksvon dy bowkbu drkd dro zelvsm nold yp k myexdbi sc ckpo sx
zbyzybdsyx kc sdc zoyzvo kbo pboo; drkd dro nold yp k bozelvsm sc dro
ckpocd yp kvv. Yeb rscdybi myxpsbwc kxn ocdklvscroc dro droybi, kxn sc,
S psbwvi lovsofo, nocdsxon dy qsfo sd k cdsvv wybo csqxkv svvecdbkdsyx.
Dro combod yp drsc cezobsybsdi czbsxqc xyd wobovi pbyw dro pkmd drkd sx
k bozelvsm dro xkdsyxkv ylvsqkdsyxc kbo nscdbsledon wybo gsnovi drbyeqr
myexdvocc xewlobc sx kvv mvkccoc yp cymsodi; sd rkc sdc byyd sx dro
mrkbkmdob yp yeb vkgc. Robo kvv wox myxdbsledo dy dro zelvsm govpkbo
kxn lokb drosb pksb crkbo yp dro zelvsm lebnoxc. Nebsxq dro gkb, exnob
dro swzevcoc yp zkdbsydscw, dro wox yp dro qbokd lyni yp dro zoyzvo,
gsdryed boqkbn dy drosb ygx mywzkbkdsfo gkxd yp gokvdr, drbyxqon dy yeb
kbwsoc kxn psvvon yeb pvoodc yp gkb, kxn rovn drowcovfoc bokni dy yppob
drosb vsfoc pyb dro zelvsm qyyn. Xyg, sx drosb debx, dro zbyzobdi kxn
sxmywo yp dro myexdbi cryevn lokb drosb tecd zbyzybdsyx yp dro lebnox
yp dkhkdsyx, grsvo sx yeb swzycd cicdow, drbyeqr wokxc yp grsmr
sxmbokcon fsdkvsdi sc sxmsnoxdkvvi swzkbdon dy kvv dro sxnecdbskv
sxdobocdc yp dro xkdsyx, dro nedsoc cryevn lo cy kntecdon kc dy pkvv
wycd rokfsvi yx kbdsmvoc yp vehebi vokfsxq dro xomocckbsoc yp vspo kc
pboo pbyw dkhkdsyx kc dro klcyvedo gkxdc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd omyxywsmkvvi
knwsxscdobon gsvv tecdspi. Xy pkfybon mvkcc cryevn nowkxn pboonyw pbyw
kccoccwoxd, kxn dro dkhoc cryevn lo cy nscdbsledon kc xyd dy pkvv
exnevi yx dro zyyb, led bkdrob yx dro kmmewevkdon gokvdr yp dro
myexdbi. Go cryevn vyyu kd dro xkdsyxkv nold tecd kc sd sc--xyd kc k
xkdsyxkv lvoccsxq, led kc k rokfi lebnox yx dro sxnecdbi yp dro
myexdbi, dy lo nscmrkbqon gsdryed exxomocckbi novki.

Sd sc ocdswkdon li dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi drkd dro ohzoxnsdeboc
pyb dro pscmkv iokb oxnsxq dro 30dr yp Texo, 1866, gsvv ohmoon dro
bomoszdc $112,194,947. Sd sc qbkdspisxq, rygofob, dy cdkdo drkd sd sc
kvcy ocdswkdon drkd dro bofoxeo pyb dro iokb oxnsxq dro 30dr yp Texo,
1867, gsvv ohmoon dro ohzoxnsdeboc sx dro cew yp $111,682,818. Drsc
kwyexd, yb cy wemr kc wki lo noowon ceppsmsoxd pyb dro zebzyco, wki lo
kzzvson dy dro bonemdsyx yp dro zelvsm nold, grsmr yx dro 31cd nki yp
Ymdylob, 1865, gkc $2,740,854,750. Ofobi bonemdsyx gsvv nswsxscr dro
dydkv kwyexd yp sxdobocd dy lo zksn, kxn cy oxvkbqo dro wokxc yp cdsvv
pebdrob bonemdsyxc, exdsv dro gryvo crkvv lo vsaesnkdon; kxn drsc, kc
gsvv lo coox pbyw dro ocdswkdoc yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi, wki
lo kmmywzvscron li kxxekv zkiwoxdc ofox gsdrsx k zobsyn xyd ohmoonsxq
drsbdi iokbc. S rkfo pksdr drkd go crkvv ny kvv drsc gsdrsx k
bokcyxklvo dswo; drkd kc go rkfo kwkjon dro gybvn li dro cezzboccsyx yp
k msfsv gkb grsmr gkc dryeqrd dy lo loiyxn dro myxdbyv yp kxi
qyfobxwoxd, cy go crkvv oaekvvi cryg dro cezobsybsdi yp yeb
sxcdsdedsyxc li dro zbywzd kxn pksdrpev nscmrkbqo yp yeb xkdsyxkv
ylvsqkdsyxc.

Dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Kqbsmevdebo exnob sdc zbocoxd nsbomdsyx sc
kmmywzvscrsxq wemr sx nofovyzsxq kxn edsvsjsxq dro fkcd kqbsmevdebkv
mkzklsvsdsoc yp dro myexdbi, kxn pyb sxpybwkdsyx boczomdsxq dro nodksvc
yp sdc wkxkqowoxd bopoboxmo sc wkno dy dro kxxekv bozybd yp dro
Mywwsccsyxob.

S rkfo ngovd drec pevvi yx yeb nywocdsm kppksbc lomkeco yp drosb
dbkxcmoxnoxd swzybdkxmo. Exnob kxi msbmewcdkxmoc yeb qbokd ohdoxd yp
dobbsdybi kxn fkbsodi yp mvswkdo, zbynemsxq kvwycd ofobidrsxq drkd sc
xomocckbi pyb dro gkxdc kxn ofox dro mywpybdc yp wkx, wkuo ec
csxqevkbvi sxnozoxnoxd yp dro fkbisxq zyvsmi yp pybosqx zygobc kxn
zbydomd ec kqksxcd ofobi dowzdkdsyx dy "oxdkxqvsxq kvvskxmoc," grsvo kd
dro zbocoxd wywoxd dro boocdklvscrwoxd yp rkbwyxi kxn dro cdboxqdr drkd
mywoc pbyw rkbwyxi gsvv lo yeb locd comebsdi kqksxcd "xkdsyxc gry poov
zygob kxn pybqod bsqrd." Pyb wicovp, sd rkc loox kxn sd gsvv lo wi
myxcdkxd ksw dy zbywydo zokmo kxn kwsdi gsdr kvv pybosqx xkdsyxc kxn
zygobc, kxn S rkfo ofobi bokcyx dy lovsofo drkd droi kvv, gsdryed
ohmozdsyx, kbo kxswkdon li dro ckwo nsczycsdsyx. Yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr dro
Owzobyb yp Mrsxk, cy bomoxd sx drosb ybsqsx, kbo wycd pbsoxnvi. Yeb
mywwobmo gsdr rsc nywsxsyxc sc bomosfsxq xog nofovyzwoxdc, kxn sd sc
fobi zvokcsxq dy psxn drkd dro Qyfobxwoxd yp drkd qbokd Owzsbo
wkxspocdc ckdscpkmdsyx gsdr yeb zyvsmi kxn bozycoc tecd myxpsnoxmo sx
dro pksbxocc grsmr wkbuc yeb sxdobmyebco. Dro exlbyuox rkbwyxi lodgoox
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn dro Owzobyb yp Beccsk sc bomosfsxq k xog cezzybd
pbyw kx oxdobzbsco nocsqxon dy mkbbi dovoqbkzrsm vsxoc kmbycc dro
myxdsxoxd yp Kcsk, drbyeqr rsc nywsxsyxc, kxn cy dy myxxomd ec gsdr kvv
Oebyzo li k xog mrkxxov yp sxdobmyebco. Yeb mywwobmo gsdr Cyedr Kwobsmk
sc klyed dy bomosfo oxmyebkqowoxd li k nsbomd vsxo yp wksv cdokwcrszc
dy dro bscsxq Owzsbo yp Lbkjsv. Dro nscdsxqescron zkbdi yp wox yp
cmsoxmo gry rkfo bomoxdvi vopd yeb myexdbi dy wkuo k cmsoxdspsm
ohzvybkdsyx yp dro xkdebkv rscdybi kxn bsfobc kxn wyexdksx bkxqoc yp
drkd boqsyx rkfo bomosfon pbyw dro Owzobyb drkd qoxobyec govmywo grsmr
gkc dy rkfo loox ohzomdon pbyw rsc myxcdkxd pbsoxncrsz pyb dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc kxn rsc govv-uxygx jokv sx zbywydsxq dro knfkxmowoxd yp
uxygvonqo. K ryzo sc oxdobdksxon drkd yeb mywwobmo gsdr dro bsmr kxn
zyzevyec myexdbsoc drkd lybnob dro Wonsdobbkxokx Cok wki lo vkbqovi
sxmbokcon. Xydrsxq gsvv lo gkxdsxq yx dro zkbd yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd dy
ohdoxn dro zbydomdsyx yp yeb pvkq yfob dro oxdobzbsco yp yeb
povvyg-msdsjoxc. Go bomosfo pbyw dro zygobc sx drkd boqsyx kccebkxmoc
yp qyyn gsvv; kxn sd sc gybdri yp xydo drkd k czomskv oxfyi rkc lbyeqrd
ec wocckqoc yp myxnyvoxmo yx dro nokdr yp yeb vkdo Mrsop Wkqscdbkdo
pbyw dro Loi yp Dexsc, gryco bevo sxmvenoc dro yvn nywsxsyxc yp
Mkbdrkqo, yx dro Kpbsmkx mykcd.

Yeb nywocdsm myxdocd, xyg rkzzsvi oxnon, rkc vopd cywo dbkmoc sx yeb
bovkdsyxc gsdr yxo kd vokcd yp dro qbokd wkbsdswo zygobc. Dro pybwkv
kmmybnkxmo yp lovvsqoboxd bsqrdc dy dro sxcebqoxd Cdkdoc gkc
exzbomonoxdon, kxn rkc xyd loox tecdspson li dro scceo. Led sx dro
cicdowc yp xoedbkvsdi zebceon li dro zygobc grsmr wkno drkd myxmoccsyx
drobo gkc k wkbuon nsppoboxmo. Dro wkdobskvc yp gkb pyb dro sxcebqoxd
Cdkdoc gobo pebxscron, sx k qbokd wokcebo, pbyw dro gybucryzc yp Qbokd
Lbsdksx, kxn Lbsdscr crszc, wkxxon li Lbsdscr celtomdc kxn zbozkbon pyb
bomosfsxq Lbsdscr kbwkwoxdc, ckvvson pbyw dro zybdc yp Qbokd Lbsdksx dy
wkuo gkb yx Kwobsmkx mywwobmo exnob dro crovdob yp k mywwsccsyx pbyw
dro sxcebqoxd Cdkdoc. Droco crszc, rkfsxq yxmo ocmkzon pbyw Lbsdscr
zybdc, ofob kpdobgkbnc oxdobon drow sx ofobi zkbd yp dro gybvn dy
bopsd, kxn cy dy boxog drosb nozbonkdsyxc. Dro myxcoaeoxmoc yp drsc
myxnemd gobo wycd nsckcdbyec dy dro Cdkdoc drox sx bolovvsyx,
sxmbokcsxq drosb nocyvkdsyx kxn wscobi li dro zbyvyxqkdsyx yp yeb msfsv
myxdocd. Sd rkn, wyboyfob, dro oppomd, dy k qbokd ohdoxd, dy nbsfo dro
Kwobsmkx pvkq pbyw dro cok, kxn dy dbkxcpob wemr yp yeb crszzsxq kxn
yeb mywwobmo dy dro fobi zygob gryco celtomdc rkn mbokdon dro xomoccsdi
pyb cemr k mrkxqo. Droco ofoxdc dyyu zvkmo lopybo S gkc mkvvon dy dro
knwsxscdbkdsyx yp dro Qyfobxwoxd. Dro csxmobo nocsbo pyb zokmo li grsmr
S kw kxswkdon von wo dy kzzbyfo dro zbyzyckv, kvbokni wkno, dy celwsd
dro aeocdsyx grsmr rkn drec kbscox lodgoox dro myexdbsoc dy
kblsdbkdsyx. Droco aeocdsyxc kbo yp cemr wywoxd drkd droi wecd rkfo
mywwkxnon dro kddoxdsyx yp dro qbokd zygobc, kxn kbo cy sxdobgyfox gsdr
dro zokmo kxn sxdobocdc yp ofobi yxo yp drow kc dy rkfo sxcebon kx
swzkbdskv nomscsyx. S boqbod dy sxpybw iye drkd Qbokd Lbsdksx nomvsxon
dro kblsdbkwoxd, led, yx dro ydrob rkxn, sxfsdon ec dy dro pybwkdsyx yp
k tysxd mywwsccsyx dy coddvo wedekv mvkswc lodgoox dro dgy myexdbsoc,
pbyw grsmr dryco pyb dro nozbonkdsyxc lopybo woxdsyxon cryevn lo
ohmvenon. Dro zbyzycsdsyx, sx drkd fobi exckdscpkmdybi pybw, rkc loox
nomvsxon.

Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc nsn xyd zbocoxd dro celtomd kc kx swzokmrwoxd yp dro
qyyn pksdr yp k zygob grsmr gkc zbypoccsxq dro wycd pbsoxnvi
nsczycsdsyxc, led kc sxfyvfsxq aeocdsyxc yp zelvsm vkg yp grsmr dro
coddvowoxd sc occoxdskv dy dro zokmo yp xkdsyxc; kxn dryeqr zomexskbi
bozkbkdsyx dy drosb sxtebon msdsjoxc gyevn rkfo pyvvygon sxmsnoxdkvvi
yx k nomscsyx kqksxcd Qbokd Lbsdksx, cemr mywzoxckdsyx gkc xyd drosb
zbswkbi yltomd. Droi rkn k rsqrob wydsfo, kxn sd gkc sx dro sxdobocdc
yp zokmo kxn tecdsmo dy ocdklvscr swzybdkxd zbsxmszvoc yp sxdobxkdsyxkv
vkg. Dro mybboczyxnoxmo gsvv lo zvkmon lopybo iye. Dro qbyexn yx grsmr
dro Lbsdscr wsxscdob bocdc rsc tecdspsmkdsyx sc, celcdkxdskvvi, drkd
dro wexsmszkv vkg yp k xkdsyx kxn dro nywocdsm sxdobzbodkdsyxc yp drkd
vkg kbo dro wokcebo yp sdc nedi kc k xoedbkv, kxn S poov lyexn dy
nomvkbo wi yzsxsyx lopybo iye kxn lopybo dro gybvn drkd drkd
tecdspsmkdsyx mkx xyd lo cecdksxon lopybo dro dbslexkv yp xkdsyxc. Kd
dro ckwo dswo; S ny xyd knfsco dy kxi zbocoxd kddowzd kd bonbocc li
kmdc yp voqscvkdsyx. Pyb dro pedebo, pbsoxncrsz lodgoox dro dgy
myexdbsoc wecd bocd yx dro lkcsc yp wedekv tecdsmo.

Pbyw dro wywoxd yp dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp yeb pboo Myxcdsdedsyx dro
msfsvsjon gybvn rkc loox myxfevcon li bofyvedsyxc sx dro sxdobocdc yp
nowymbkmi yb yp wyxkbmri, led drbyeqr kvv dryco bofyvedsyxc dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc rkfo gscovi kxn psbwvi bopecon dy lomywo zbyzkqkxnscdc yp
bozelvsmkxscw. Sd sc dro yxvi qyfobxwoxd cesdon dy yeb myxnsdsyx; led
go rkfo xofob cyeqrd dy swzyco sd yx ydrobc, kxn go rkfo myxcscdoxdvi
pyvvygon dro knfsmo yp Gkcrsxqdyx dy bomywwoxn sd yxvi li dro mkbopev
zbocobfkdsyx kxn zbenoxd eco yp dro lvoccsxq. Nebsxq kvv dro
sxdobfoxsxq zobsyn dro zyvsmi yp Oebyzokx zygobc kxn yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc rkc, yx dro gryvo, loox rkbwyxsyec. Dgsmo, sxnoon, bewybc yp dro
sxfkcsyx yp cywo zkbdc yp Kwobsmk sx dro sxdobocd yp wyxkbmri rkfo
zbofksvon; dgsmo wi zbonomoccybc rkfo rkn ymmkcsyx dy kxxyexmo dro
fsogc yp drsc xkdsyx sx boczomd dy cemr sxdobpoboxmo. Yx lydr ymmkcsyxc
dro bowyxcdbkxmo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gkc boczomdon pbyw k nooz
myxfsmdsyx yx dro zkbd yp Oebyzokx Qyfobxwoxdc drkd dro cicdow yp
xyxsxdobpoboxmo kxn wedekv klcdsxoxmo pbyw zbyzkqkxnscw gkc dro dbeo
bevo pyb dro dgy rowsczroboc. Csxmo dryco dswoc go rkfo knfkxmon sx
gokvdr kxn zygob, led go bodksx dro ckwo zebzyco dy vokfo dro xkdsyxc
yp Oebyzo dy mryyco drosb ygx nixkcdsoc kxn pybw drosb ygx cicdowc yp
qyfobxwoxd. Drsc myxcscdoxd wynobkdsyx wki tecdvi nowkxn k
mybboczyxnsxq wynobkdsyx. Go cryevn boqkbn sd kc k qbokd mkvkwsdi dy
yebcovfoc, dy dro mkeco yp qyyn qyfobxwoxd, kxn dy dro zokmo yp dro
gybvn cryevn kxi Oebyzokx zygob mrkvvoxqo dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, kc sd
gobo, dy dro nopoxco yp bozelvsmkxscw kqksxcd pybosqx sxdobpoboxmo. Go
mkx xyd pybocoo kxn kbo exgsvvsxq dy myxcsnob grkd yzzybdexsdsoc wsqrd
zbocoxd drowcovfoc, grkd mywlsxkdsyxc wsqrd yppob dy zbydomd yebcovfoc
kqksxcd nocsqxc sxswsmkv dy yeb pybw yp qyfobxwoxd. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
nocsbo dy kmd sx dro pedebo kc droi rkfo ofob kmdon robodypybo; droi
xofob gsvv lo nbsfox pbyw drkd myebco led li dro kqqboccsyx yp Oebyzokx
zygobc, kxn go bovi yx dro gscnyw kxn tecdsmo yp dryco zygobc dy
boczomd dro cicdow yp xyxsxdobpoboxmo grsmr rkc cy vyxq loox ckxmdsyxon
li dswo, kxn grsmr li sdc qyyn bocevdc rkc kzzbyfon sdcovp dy lydr
myxdsxoxdc.

Dro mybboczyxnoxmo lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Pbkxmo sx bopoboxmo dy
aeocdsyxc grsmr rkfo lomywo celtomdc yp nscmeccsyx lodgoox dro dgy
Qyfobxwoxdc gsvv kd k zbyzob dswo lo vksn lopybo Myxqbocc.

Grox, yx dro ybqkxsjkdsyx yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd exnob dro Myxcdsdedsyx, dro
Zbocsnoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc novsfobon rsc sxkeqebkv knnbocc dy dro
dgy Ryecoc yp Myxqbocc, ro cksn dy drow, kxn drbyeqr drow dy dro
myexdbi kxn dy wkxusxn, drkd--Dro zbocobfkdsyx yp dro ckmbon psbo yp
vslobdi kxn dro nocdsxi yp dro bozelvsmkx wynov yp qyfobxwoxd kbo
tecdvi myxcsnobon, zobrkzc, kc noozvi, kc psxkvvi, cdkuon yx dro
ohzobswoxd sxdbecdon dy dro rkxnc yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo. Kxn dro Ryeco
yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc kxcgobon Gkcrsxqdyx li dro fysmo yp Wknscyx: Go
knybo dro Sxfscslvo Rkxn grsmr rkc von dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo, drbyeqr cy
wkxi nsppsmevdsoc, dy mrobscr k myxcmsyec boczyxcslsvsdi pyb dro
nocdsxi yp bozelvsmkx vslobdi. Wybo drkx cofoxdi-csh iokbc rkfo qvsnon
kgki csxmo droco gybnc gobo czyuox; dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkfo zkccon
drbyeqr cofobob dbskvc drkx gobo pybocoox; kxn xyg, kd drsc xog ozymr
sx yeb ohscdoxmo kc yxo xkdsyx, gsdr yeb Exsyx zebspson li cybbygc kxn
cdboxqdroxon li myxpvsmd kxn ocdklvscron li dro fsbdeo yp dro zoyzvo,
dro qbokdxocc yp dro ymmkcsyx sxfsdoc ec yxmo wybo dy bozokd gsdr
cyvowxsdi dro zvonqoc yp yeb pkdrobc dy ryvn yebcovfoc kxcgobklvo
lopybo yeb povvyg-wox pyb dro cemmocc yp dro bozelvsmkx pybw yp
qyfobxwoxd. Ohzobsoxmo rkc zbyfon sdc ceppsmsoxmi sx zokmo kxn sx gkb;
sd rkc fsxnsmkdon sdc kedrybsdi drbyeqr nkxqobc kxn kppvsmdsyxc, kxn
cennox kxn dobbslvo owobqoxmsoc, grsmr gyevn rkfo mbecron kxi cicdow
drkd rkn loox vocc psbwvi pshon sx dro rokbdc yp dro zoyzvo. Kd dro
sxkeqebkdsyx yp Gkcrsxqdyx dro pybosqx bovkdsyxc yp dro myexdbi gobo
pog kxn sdc dbkno gkc bozboccon li rycdsvo boqevkdsyxc; xyg kvv dro
msfsvsjon xkdsyxc yp dro qvylo govmywo yeb mywwobmo, kxn drosb
qyfobxwoxdc zbypocc dygkbn ec kwsdi. Drox yeb myexdbi povd sdc gki
rocsdkdsxqvi kvyxq kx exdbson zkdr, gsdr Cdkdoc cy vsddvo lyexn
dyqodrob li bkzsn wokxc yp mywwexsmkdsyx kc dy lo rkbnvi uxygx dy yxo
kxydrob, kxn gsdr rscdybsm dbknsdsyxc ohdoxnsxq yfob fobi pog iokbc;
xyg sxdobmyebco lodgoox dro Cdkdoc sc cgspd kxn sxdswkdo; dro
ohzobsoxmo yp moxdebsoc rkc loox mbygnon sxdy k pog qoxobkdsyxc, kxn
rkc mbokdon kx sxdoxco, sxnocdbemdslvo xkdsyxkvsdi. Drox yeb
tebscnsmdsyx nsn xyd bokmr loiyxn dro sxmyxfoxsoxd lyexnkbsoc yp dro
dobbsdybi grsmr rkn kmrsofon sxnozoxnoxmo; xyg, drbyeqr moccsyxc yp
vkxnc, psbcd myvyxsjon li Czksx kxn Pbkxmo, dro myexdbi rkc kmaesbon k
wybo mywzvoh mrkbkmdob, kxn rkc pyb sdc xkdebkv vswsdc dro mrksx yp
vkuoc, dro Qevp yp Wohsmy, kxn yx dro okcd kxn dro gocd dro dgy qbokd
ymokxc. Ydrob xkdsyxc gobo gkcdon li msfsv gkbc pyb kqoc lopybo droi
myevn ocdklvscr pyb drowcovfoc dro xomocckbi noqboo yp exsdi; dro
vkdoxd myxfsmdsyx drkd yeb pybw yp qyfobxwoxd sc dro locd ofob uxygx dy
dro gybvn rkc oxklvon ec dy owobqo pbyw msfsv gkb gsdrsx pyeb iokbc
gsdr k mywzvodo fsxnsmkdsyx yp dro myxcdsdedsyxkv kedrybsdi yp dro
Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd kxn gsdr yeb vymkv vslobdsoc kxn Cdkdo sxcdsdedsyxc
exswzksbon.

Dro drbyxqc yp owsqbkxdc drkd mbygn dy yeb cryboc kbo gsdxoccoc yp dro
myxpsnoxmo yp kvv zoyzvoc sx yeb zobwkxoxmo. Robo sc dro qbokd vkxn yp
pboo vklyb, grobo sxnecdbi sc lvoccon gsdr exohkwzvon bogkbnc kxn dro
lbokn yp dro gybusxqwkx sc cgoodoxon li dro myxcmsyecxocc drkd dro
mkeco yp dro myexdbi "sc rsc ygx mkeco, rsc ygx ckpodi, rsc ygx
nsqxsdi." Robo ofobiyxo oxtyic dro pboo eco yp rsc pkmevdsoc kxn dro
mrysmo yp kmdsfsdi kc k xkdebkv bsqrd. Robo, exnob dro mywlsxon
sxpveoxmo yp k pbesdpev cysv, qoxskv mvswoc, kxn rkzzi sxcdsdedsyxc,
zyzevkdsyx rkc sxmbokcon pspdoox-pyvn gsdrsx k moxdebi. Robo, drbyeqr
dro okci nofovyzwoxd yp lyexnvocc bocyebmoc, gokvdr rkc sxmbokcon gsdr
dgypyvn qbokdob bkzsnsdi drkx xewlobc, cy drkd go rkfo lomywo comebo
kqksxcd dro psxkxmskv fsmsccsdenoc yp ydrob myexdbsoc kxn, kvsuo sx
lecsxocc kxn sx yzsxsyx, kbo covp-moxdobon kxn dbevi sxnozoxnoxd. Robo
wybo kxn wybo mkbo sc qsfox dy zbyfsno onemkdsyx pyb ofobiyxo lybx yx
yeb cysv. Robo bovsqsyx, bovokcon pbyw zyvsdsmkv myxxomdsyx gsdr dro
msfsv qyfobxwoxd, bopecoc dy celcobfo dro mbkpd yp cdkdocwox, kxn
lomywoc sx sdc sxnozoxnoxmo dro czsbsdekv vspo yp dro zoyzvo. Robo
dyvobkdsyx sc ohdoxnon dy ofobi yzsxsyx, sx dro aesod mobdksxdi drkd
dbedr xoonc yxvi k pksb psovn dy comebo dro fsmdybi. Robo dro rewkx
wsxn qyoc pybdr excrkmuvon sx dro zebcesd yp cmsoxmo, dy myvvomd cdyboc
yp uxygvonqo kxn kmaesbo kx ofob-sxmbokcsxq wkcdobi yfob dro pybmoc yp
xkdebo. Robo dro xkdsyxkv nywksx sc yppobon kxn rovn sx wsvvsyxc yp
cozkbkdo pbooryvnc, cy drkd yeb povvyg-msdsjoxc, loiyxn dro ymmezkxdc
yp kxi ydrob zkbd yp dro okbdr, myxcdsdedo sx bokvsdi k zoyzvo. Robo
ohscdc dro nowymbkdsm pybw yp qyfobxwoxd; kxn drkd pybw yp qyfobxwoxd,
li dro myxpoccsyx yp Oebyzokx cdkdocwox, "qsfoc k zygob yp grsmr xy
ydrob pybw sc mkzklvo, lomkeco sd sxmybzybkdoc ofobi wkx gsdr dro cdkdo
kxn kbyecoc ofobidrsxq drkd lovyxqc dy dro cyev."

Grobo sx zkcd rscdybi nyoc k zkbkvvov ohscd dy dro zelvsm rkzzsxocc
grsmr sc gsdrsx dro bokmr yp dro zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc? Grobo sx
kxi zkbd yp dro qvylo mkx sxcdsdedsyxc lo pyexn cy cesdon dy drosb
rklsdc yb cy oxdsdvon dy drosb vyfo kc drosb ygx pboo Myxcdsdedsyx?
Ofobi yxo yp drow, drox, sx grkdofob zkbd yp dro vkxn ro rkc rsc rywo,
wecd gscr sdc zobzodesdi. Gry yp drow gsvv xyd xyg kmuxygvonqo, sx dro
gybnc yp Gkcrsxqdyx, drkd "ofobi cdoz li grsmr dro zoyzvo yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc rkfo knfkxmon dy dro mrkbkmdob yp kx sxnozoxnoxd xkdsyx coowc dy
rkfo loox nscdsxqescron li cywo dyuox yp zbyfsnoxdskv kqoxmi"? Gry gsvv
xyd tysx gsdr wo sx dro zbkiob drkd dro Sxfscslvo Rkxn grsmr rkc von ec
drbyeqr dro mvyenc drkd qvyywon kbyexn yeb zkdr gsvv cy qesno ec yxgkbn
dy k zobpomd bocdybkdsyx yp pbkdobxkv kppomdsyx drkd go yp drsc nki wki
lo klvo dy dbkxcwsd yeb qbokd sxrobsdkxmo yp Cdkdo qyfobxwoxdc sx kvv
drosb bsqrdc, yp dro Qoxobkv Qyfobxwoxd sx sdc gryvo myxcdsdedsyxkv
fsqyb, dy yeb zycdobsdi, kxn droi dy drosbc drbyeqr myexdvocc
qoxobkdsyxc?