Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hm. Kmzndyzio, Hzhwzmn ja ocz Cjpnz viy Nzivoz, ht azggjr
Vhzmdxvin:

D rdgg wz wmdza, ajm jpm odhz dn izxznnvmdgt ncjmo viy jpm vbziyv dn
vgmzvyt gjib.

Gvno tzvm'n xjibmznndjivg nznndji rvn ocz gjibzno di kzvxzodhz cdnojmt.
Rdoc ocvo ajpiyvodji, gzo pn rjmf ojbzoczm oj hvfz ocdn tzvm'n nznndji ocz
wzno di ocz Ivodji'n cdnojmt.

Gzo ocdn nznndji ja Xjibmznn wz fijri vn ocz nznndji rcdxc ydy hjmz ajm
xdqdg mdbcon ocvi ocz gvno cpiymzy nznndjin xjhwdizy; vn ocz nznndji rcdxc
zivxozy ocz hjno avm-mzvxcdib ovs xpo ja jpm odhz; vn ocz nznndji rcdxc
yzxgvmzy vgg-jpo rvm ji cphvi kjqzmot viy pizhkgjthzio di ocznz Pidozy
Novozn; vn ocz nznndji rcdxc adivggt mzxjbiduzy ocz czvgoc izzyn ja vgg jpm
jgyzm xdoduzin; vn ocz nznndji rcdxc mzajmhzy jpm ovibgzy omvinkjmovodji
viy omvindo kjgdxdzn; vn ocz nznndji rcdxc vxcdzqzy ocz hjno zaazxodqz,
zaadxdzio ajmzdbi vdy kmjbmvh zqzm; viy vn ocz nznndji rcdxc czgkzy oj
wpdgy hjmz cjhzn, hjmz nxcjjgn, hjmz gdwmvmdzn, viy hjmz cjnkdovgn ocvi vit
ndibgz nznndji ja Xjibmznn di ocz cdnojmt ja jpm Mzkpwgdx.

Vgg ocdn viy hjmz xvi viy hpno wz yjiz. Do xvi wz yjiz wt ocdn nphhzm, viy
do xvi wz yjiz rdocjpo vit dixmzvnz di nkziydib. Di avxo, piyzm ocz wpybzo
ocvo D ncvgg ncjmogt npwhdo, do xvi wz yjiz rdoc vi vxopvg mzypxodji di
Azyzmvg zskziydopmzn viy Azyzmvg zhkgjthzio.

Rz cvqz di 1964 v pidlpz jkkjmopidot viy jwgdbvodji--oj kmjqz ocz npxxznn
ja jpm ntnozh; oj ydnkmjqz ocjnz xtidxn viy xmdodxn vo cjhz viy vwmjvy rcj
lpznodji jpm kpmkjnz viy jpm xjhkzozixz.

Da rz avdg, da rz amdoozm viy aphwgz vrvt jpm jkkjmopidot di izzygznn,
nzinzgznn lpvmmzgn wzorzzi Yzhjxmvon viy Mzkpwgdxvin, jm wzorzzi ocz Cjpnz
viy ocz Nzivoz, jm wzorzzi ocz Njpoc viy Ijmoc, jm wzorzzi ocz Xjibmznn viy
ocz vyhdidnomvodji, oczi cdnojmt rdgg mdbcoapggt epybz pn cvmncgt. Wpo da
rz npxxzzy, da rz xvi vxcdzqz ocznz bjvgn wt ajmbdib di ocdn xjpiomt v
bmzvozm nzinz ja pidji, oczi, viy jigt oczi, xvi rz ovfz apgg nvodnavxodji
di ocz Novoz ja ocz Pidji. DD.

Czmz di ocz Xjibmznn tjp xvi yzhjinomvoz zaazxodqz gzbdngvodqz gzvyzmncdk
wt ydnxcvmbdib ocz kpwgdx wpndiznn rdoc xgvmdot viy ydnkvoxc, qjodib zvxc
dhkjmovio kmjkjnvg pk, jm qjodib do yjri, wpo vo gzvno wmdibdib do oj v
avdm viy v adivg qjoz.

Gzo pn xvmmt ajmrvmy ocz kgvin viy kmjbmvhn ja Ejci Adoubzmvgy Fziizyt--ijo
wzxvpnz ja jpm njmmjr jm nthkvoct, wpo wzxvpnz oczt vmz mdbco.

Di cdn hzhjmt ojyvt, D znkzxdvggt vnf vgg hzhwzmn ja ht jri kjgdodxvg
avdoc, di ocdn zgzxodji tzvm, oj kpo tjpm xjpiomt vczvy ja tjpm kvmot, viy
oj vgrvtn yzwvoz kmdixdkgzn; izqzm yzwvoz kzmnjivgdodzn.

Ajm ht kvmo, D kgzybz v kmjbmznndqz vyhdidnomvodji rcdxc dn zaadxdzio, viy
cjizno viy ampbvg. Ocz wpybzo oj wz npwhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn ncjmogt dn di
apgg vxxjmy rdoc ocdn kgzybz.

Do rdgg xpo jpm yzadxdo di cvga--amjh $10 wdggdji oj $4,900 hdggdji. Do
rdgg wz, di kmjkjmodji oj jpm ivodjivg jpokpo, ocz nhvggzno wpybzo ndixz
1951.

Do rdgg xvgg ajm v npwnoviodvg mzypxodji di Azyzmvg zhkgjthzio, v azvo
vxxjhkgdnczy jigt jixz wzajmz di ocz gvno 10 tzvmn. Rcdgz hvdiovdidib ocz
apgg nomziboc ja jpm xjhwvo yzazinzn, do rdgg xvgg ajm ocz gjrzno iphwzm ja
xdqdgdvi kzmnjiizg di ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Yzazinz ndixz 1950.

Do rdgg xvgg ajm ojovg zskziydopmzn ja $97,900 hdggdji--xjhkvmzy oj $98,400
hdggdji ajm ocz xpmmzio tzvm, v mzypxodji ja hjmz ocvi $500 hdggdji. Do
rdgg xvgg ajm izr jwgdbvodjivg vpocjmdot ja $103,800 hdggdji--v mzypxodji
ja hjmz ocvi $4 wdggdji wzgjr gvno tzvm'n mzlpzno ja $107,900 hdggdji.

Wpo do dn ijo v noviynodgg wpybzo, ajm Vhzmdxv xviijo vaajmy oj noviy
nodgg. Jpm kjkpgvodji dn bmjrdib. Jpm zxjijht dn hjmz xjhkgzs. Jpm kzjkgz'n
izzyn vmz zskviydib.

Wpo wt xgjndib yjri jwnjgzoz dinovggvodjin, wt xpmovdgdib gznn pmbzio
kmjbmvhn, wt xpoodib wvxf rczmz xpoodib wvxf nzzhn oj wz rdnz, wt dindnodib
ji v yjggvm'n rjmoc ajm v yjggvm nkzio, D vh vwgz oj mzxjhhziy di ocdn
mzypxzy wpybzo ocz hjno Azyzmvg npkkjmo di cdnojmt ajm zypxvodji, ajm
czvgoc, ajm mzomvdidib ocz pizhkgjtzy, viy ajm czgkdib ocz zxjijhdxvggt viy
ocz kctndxvggt cviydxvkkzy.

Ocdn wpybzo, viy ocdn tzvm'n gzbdngvodqz kmjbmvh, vmz yzndbizy oj czgk zvxc
viy zqzmt Vhzmdxvi xdoduzi apgadgg cdn wvndx cjkzn--cdn cjkzn ajm v avdm
xcvixz oj hvfz bjjy; cdn cjkzn ajm avdm kgvt amjh ocz gvr; cdn cjkzn ajm v
apgg-odhz ejw ji apgg-odhz kvt; cdn cjkzn ajm v yzxzio cjhz ajm cdn avhdgt
di v yzxzio xjhhpidot; cdn cjkzn ajm v bjjy nxcjjg ajm cdn xcdgymzi rdoc
bjjy ozvxczmn; viy cdn cjkzn ajm nzxpmdot rczi avxzy rdoc ndxfiznn jm
pizhkgjthzio jm jgy vbz. DDD.

Piajmopivozgt, hvit Vhzmdxvin gdqz ji ocz jponfdmon ja cjkz--njhz wzxvpnz
ja oczdm kjqzmot, viy njhz wzxvpnz ja oczao xjgjm, viy vgg ojj hvit wzxvpnz
ja wjoc. Jpm ovnf dn oj czgk mzkgvxz oczdm yznkvdm rdoc jkkjmopidot.

Ocdn vyhdidnomvodji ojyvt, czmz viy ijr, yzxgvmzn pixjiydodjivg rvm ji
kjqzmot di Vhzmdxv. D pmbz ocdn Xjibmznn viy vgg Vhzmdxvin oj ejdi rdoc hz
di ocvo zaajmo.

Do rdgg ijo wz v ncjmo jm zvnt nompbbgz, ij ndibgz rzvkji jm nomvozbt rdgg
npaadxz, wpo rz ncvgg ijo mzno piodg ocvo rvm dn rji. Ocz mdxczno Ivodji ji
zvmoc xvi vaajmy oj rdi do. Rz xviijo vaajmy oj gjnz do. Jiz ocjpnviy
yjggvmn diqznozy di nvgqvbdib vi pizhkgjtvwgz tjpoc ojyvt xvi mzopmi
$40,000 jm hjmz di cdn gdazodhz.

Kjqzmot dn v ivodjivg kmjwgzh, mzlpdmdib dhkmjqzy ivodjivg jmbviduvodji viy
npkkjmo. Wpo ocdn voovxf, oj wz zaazxodqz, hpno vgnj wz jmbviduzy vo ocz
Novoz viy ocz gjxvg gzqzg viy hpno wz npkkjmozy viy ydmzxozy wt Novoz viy
gjxvg zaajmon.

Ajm ocz rvm vbvdino kjqzmot rdgg ijo wz rji czmz di Rvncdiboji. Do hpno wz
rji di ocz adzgy, di zqzmt kmdqvoz cjhz, di zqzmt kpwgdx jaadxz, amjh ocz
xjpmocjpnz oj ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz.

Ocz kmjbmvh D ncvgg kmjkjnz rdgg zhkcvnduz ocdn xjjkzmvodqz vkkmjvxc oj
czgk ocvo jiz-adaoc ja vgg Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn rdoc dixjhzn ojj nhvgg oj zqzi
hzzo oczdm wvndx izzyn.

Jpm xcdza rzvkjin di v hjmz kdikjdiozy voovxf rdgg wz wzoozm nxcjjgn, viy
wzoozm czvgoc, viy wzoozm cjhzn, viy wzoozm omvdidib, viy wzoozm ejw
jkkjmopidodzn oj czgk hjmz Vhzmdxvin, znkzxdvggt tjpib Vhzmdxvin, znxvkz
amjh nlpvgjm viy hdnzmt viy pizhkgjthzio mjggn rczmz joczm xdoduzin czgk oj
xvmmt oczh.

Qzmt jaozi v gvxf ja ejwn viy hjizt dn ijo ocz xvpnz ja kjqzmot, wpo ocz
nthkojh. Ocz xvpnz hvt gdz yzzkzm di jpm avdgpmz oj bdqz jpm azggjr
xdoduzin v avdm xcvixz oj yzqzgjk oczdm jri xvkvxdodzn, di v gvxf ja
zypxvodji viy omvdidib, di v gvxf ja hzydxvg xvmz viy cjpndib, di v gvxf ja
yzxzio xjhhpidodzn di rcdxc oj gdqz viy wmdib pk oczdm xcdgymzi.

Wpo rcvozqzm ocz xvpnz, jpm ejdio Azyzmvg-gjxvg zaajmo hpno kpmnpz kjqzmot,
kpmnpz do rczmzqzm do zsdnon--di xdot ngphn viy nhvgg ojrin, di
ncvmzxmjkkzm ncvxfn jm di hdbmvio rjmfzm xvhkn, ji Diydvi Mznzmqvodjin,
vhjib rcdozn vn rzgg vn Izbmjzn, vhjib ocz tjpib vn rzgg vn ocz vbzy, di
ocz wjjh ojrin viy di ocz yzkmznnzy vmzvn.

Jpm vdh dn ijo jigt oj mzgdzqz ocz nthkojh ja kjqzmot, wpo oj xpmz do viy,
vwjqz vgg, oj kmzqzio do. Ij ndibgz kdzxz ja gzbdngvodji, cjrzqzm, dn bjdib
oj npaadxz.

Rz rdgg gvpixc v nkzxdvg zaajmo di ocz xcmjidxvggt ydnomznnzy vmzvn ja
Vkkvgvxcdv.

Rz hpno zskviy jpm nhvgg wpo jpm npxxznnapg vmzv mzyzqzgjkhzio kmjbmvh.

Rz hpno zivxo tjpoc zhkgjthzio gzbdngvodji oj kpo ejwgznn, vdhgznn,
cjkzgznn tjpibnozmn oj rjmf ji pnzapg kmjezxon.

Rz hpno ydnomdwpoz hjmz ajjy oj ocz izzyt ocmjpbc v wmjvyzm ajjy novhk
kmjbmvh.

Rz hpno xmzvoz v Ivodjivg Nzmqdxz Xjmkn oj czgk ocz zxjijhdxvggt
cviydxvkkzy ja jpm jri xjpiomt vn ocz Kzvxz Xjmkn ijr czgkn ocjnz vwmjvy.

Rz hpno hjyzmiduz jpm pizhkgjthzio dinpmvixz viy znovwgdnc v cdbc-gzqzg
xjhhdnndji ji vpojhvodji. Da rz cvqz ocz wmvdi kjrzm oj diqzio ocznz
hvxcdizn, rz cvqz ocz wmvdi kjrzm oj hvfz xzmovdi ocvo oczt vmz v wjji viy
ijo v wviz oj cphvidot.

Rz hpno zsoziy ocz xjqzmvbz ja jpm hdidhph rvbz gvrn oj hjmz ocvi 2 hdggdji
rjmfzmn ijr gvxfdib ocdn wvndx kmjozxodji ja kpmxcvndib kjrzm.

Rz hpno, wt dixgpydib nkzxdvg nxcjjg vdy apiyn vn kvmo ja jpm zypxvodji
kmjbmvh, dhkmjqz ocz lpvgdot ja ozvxcdib, omvdidib, viy xjpinzgdib di jpm
cvmyzno cdo vmzvn.

Rz hpno wpdgy hjmz gdwmvmdzn di zqzmt vmzv viy hjmz cjnkdovgn viy ipmndib
cjhzn piyzm ocz Cdgg-Wpmoji Vxo, viy omvdi hjmz ipmnzn oj novaa oczh.

Rz hpno kmjqdyz cjnkdovg dinpmvixz ajm jpm jgyzm xdoduzin adivixzy wt zqzmt
rjmfzm viy cdn zhkgjtzm piyzm Njxdvg Nzxpmdot, xjiomdwpodib ij hjmz ocvi $1
v hjioc ypmdib ocz zhkgjtzz'n rjmfdib xvmzzm oj kmjozxo cdh di cdn jgy vbz
di v ydbidadzy hviizm rdocjpo xjno oj ocz Omzvnpmt, vbvdino ocz yzqvnovodib
cvmyncdk ja kmjgjibzy jm mzkzvozy dggiznn.

Rz hpno, vn v kvmo ja v mzqdnzy cjpndib viy pmwvi mzizrvg kmjbmvh, bdqz
hjmz czgk oj ocjnz ydnkgvxzy wt ngph xgzvmvixz, kmjqdyz hjmz cjpndib ajm
jpm kjjm viy jpm zgyzmgt, viy nzzf vn jpm pgodhvoz bjvg di jpm amzz
ziozmkmdnz ntnozh v yzxzio cjhz ajm zqzmt Vhzmdxvi avhdgt.

Rz hpno czgk jwovdi hjmz hjyzmi hvnn omvindo rdocdi jpm xjhhpidodzn vn rzgg
vn gjr-xjno omvinkjmovodji wzorzzi oczh.

Vwjqz vgg, rz hpno mzgzvnz $11 wdggdji ja ovs mzypxodji dioj ocz kmdqvoz
nkziydib nomzvh oj xmzvoz izr ejwn viy izr hvmfzon di zqzmt vmzv ja ocdn
gviy. DQ.

Ocznz kmjbmvhn vmz jwqdjpngt ijo ajm ocz kjjm jm ocz piyzmkmdqdgzbzy vgjiz.
Zqzmt Vhzmdxvi rdgg wzizado wt ocz zsozindji ja njxdvg nzxpmdot oj xjqzm
ocz cjnkdovg xjnon ja oczdm vbzy kvmzion. Zqzmt Vhzmdxvi xjhhpidot rdgg
wzizado amjh ocz xjinompxodji jm hjyzmiduvodji ja nxcjjgn, gdwmvmdzn,
cjnkdovgn, viy ipmndib cjhzn, amjh ocz omvdidib ja hjmz ipmnzn viy amjh ocz
dhkmjqzhzio ja pmwvi mzizrvg di kpwgdx omvindo. Viy zqzmt diydqdypvg
Vhzmdxvi ovskvtzm viy zqzmt xjmkjmvoz ovskvtzm rdgg wzizado amjh ocz
zvmgdzno kjnndwgz kvnnvbz ja ocz kziydib ovs wdgg amjh wjoc ocz izr
diqznohzio do rdgg wmdib viy ocz izr ejwn ocvo do rdgg xmzvoz.

Ocvo ovs wdgg cvn wzzi ocjmjpbcgt ydnxpnnzy ajm v tzvm. Ijr rz izzy vxodji.
Ocz izr wpybzo xgzvmgt vggjrn do. Jpm ovskvtzmn npmzgt yznzmqz do. Jpm
zxjijht nomjibgt yzhviyn do. Viy zqzmt hjioc ja yzgvt ydgpozn don wzizadon
di 1964 ajm xjinphkodji, ajm diqznohzio, viy ajm zhkgjthzio.

Ajm piodg ocz wdgg dn ndbizy, don diqznohzio dixziodqzn xviijo wz yzzhzy
xzmovdi, viy ocz rdoccjgydib mvoz xviijo wz mzypxzy--viy ocz hjno yvhvbdib
viy yzqvnovodib ocdib tjp xvi yj oj vit wpndiznnhvi di Vhzmdxv dn oj fzzk
cdh di yjpwo viy oj fzzk cdh bpznndib ji rcvo jpm ovs kjgdxt dn. Viy D nvt
ocvo rz ncjpgy ijr mzypxz oj 14 kzmxzio dinozvy ja 15 kzmxzio jpm
rdoccjgydib mvoz.

D oczmzajmz pmbz ocz Xjibmznn oj ovfz adivg vxodji ji ocdn wdgg wt ocz
admno ja Azwmpvmt, da vo vgg kjnndwgz. Ajm cjrzqzm kmjpy rz hvt wz ja ocz
pikmzxzyziozy kmjbmznn ja jpm amzz ziozmkmdnz zxjijht jqzm ocz gvno 3
tzvmn, rz ncjpgy ijo viy rz xviijo kzmhdo do oj kvpnz.

Di 1963, ajm ocz admno odhz di cdnojmt, rz xmjnnzy ocz 70 hdggdji ejw hvmf,
wpo rz rdgg njji izzy hjmz ocvi 75 hdggdji ejwn. Di 1963 jpm bmjnn ivodjivg
kmjypxo mzvxczy ocz $600 wdggdji gzqzg--$100 wdggdji cdbczm ocvi rczi rz
ojjf jaadxz. Wpo do zvndgt xjpgy viy do ncjpgy wz nodgg $30 wdggdji cdbczm
ojyvt ocvi do dn.

Rvbzn viy kmjadon viy avhdgt dixjhz vmz vgnj vo oczdm cdbczno gzqzgn di
cdnojmt--wpo D rjpgy mzhdiy tjp ocvo 4 hdggdji rjmfzmn viy 13 kzmxzio ja
jpm diypnomdvg xvkvxdot vmz nodgg dygz ojyvt.

Rz izzy v ovs xpo ijr oj fzzk ocdn xjpiomt hjqdib. Q.

Ajm jpm bjvg dn ijo hzmzgt oj nkmzvy ocz rjmf. Jpm bjvg dn oj xmzvoz hjmz
ejwn. D wzgdzqz ocz zivxohzio ja v 35-cjpm rzzf rjpgy ncvmkgt dixmzvnz
xjnon, rjpgy diqdoz diagvodji, rjpgy dhkvdm jpm vwdgdot oj xjhkzoz, viy
hzmzgt ncvmz dinozvy ja xmzvodib zhkgjthzio. Wpo D vh zlpvggt jkkjnzy oj
ocz 45- jm 50-cjpm rzzf di ocjnz diypnomdzn rczmz xjindnoziogt zsxznndqz
pnz ja jqzmodhz xvpnzn dixmzvnzy pizhkgjthzio.

Nj, oczmzajmz, D mzxjhhziy gzbdngvodji vpocjmdudib ocz xmzvodji ja v
omdkvmodoz diypnomt xjhhdoozz oj yzozmhdiz ji vi diypnomt-wt-diypnomt wvndn
vn oj rczmz v cdbczm kzivgot mvoz ajm jqzmodhz rjpgy dixmzvnz ejw jkzidibn
rdocjpo piypgt dixmzvndib xjnon, viy vpocjmdudib ocz znovwgdnchzio ja npxc
cdbczm mvozn. QD.

Gzo hz hvfz jiz kmdixdkgz ja ocdn vyhdidnomvodji vwpiyviogt xgzvm: Vgg ja
ocznz dixmzvnzy jkkjmopidodzn--di zhkgjthzio, di zypxvodji, di cjpndib, viy
di zqzmt adzgy--hpno wz jkzi oj Vhzmdxvin ja zqzmt xjgjm. Vn avm vn ocz rmdo
ja Azyzmvg gvr rdgg mpi, rz hpno vwjgdnc ijo njhz, wpo vgg mvxdvg
ydnxmdhdivodji. Ajm ocdn dn ijo hzmzgt vi zxjijhdx dnnpz, jm v njxdvg,
kjgdodxvg, jm diozmivodjivg dnnpz. Do dn v hjmvg dnnpz, viy do hpno wz hzo
wt ocz kvnnvbz ocdn nznndji ja ocz wdgg ijr kziydib di ocz Cjpnz.

Vgg hzhwzmn ja ocz kpwgdx ncjpgy cvqz zlpvg vxxznn oj avxdgdodzn jkzi oj
ocz kpwgdx. Vgg hzhwzmn ja ocz kpwgdx ncjpgy wz zlpvggt zgdbdwgz ajm
Azyzmvg wzizadon ocvo vmz adivixzy wt ocz kpwgdx. Vgg hzhwzmn ja ocz kpwgdx
ncjpgy cvqz vi zlpvg xcvixz oj qjoz ajm kpwgdx jaadxdvgn viy oj nziy oczdm
xcdgymzi oj bjjy kpwgdx nxcjjgn viy oj xjiomdwpoz oczdm ovgzion oj ocz
kpwgdx bjjy.

Ojyvt, Vhzmdxvin ja vgg mvxzn noviy ndyz wt ndyz di Wzmgdi viy di Qdzo Ivh.
Oczt ydzy ndyz wt ndyz di Fjmzv. Npmzgt oczt xvi rjmf viy zvo viy omvqzg
ndyz wt ndyz di oczdm jri xjpiomt. QDD.

Rz hpno vgnj gdao wt gzbdngvodji ocz wvmn ja ydnxmdhdivodji vbvdino ocjnz
rcj nzzf ziomt dioj jpm xjpiomt, kvmodxpgvmgt ocjnz rcj cvqz hpxc izzyzy
nfdggn viy ocjnz ejdidib oczdm avhdgdzn.

Di znovwgdncdib kmzazmzixzn, v ivodji ocvo rvn wpdgo wt ocz dhhdbmvion ja
vgg gviyn xvi vnf ocjnz rcj ijr nzzf vyhdnndji: "Rcvo xvi tjp yj ajm jpm
xjpiomt?" Wpo rz ncjpgy ijo wz vnfdib: "Di rcvo xjpiomt rzmz tjp wjmi?"
QDDD.

Ajm jpm pgodhvoz bjvg dn v rjmgy rdocjpo rvm, v rjmgy hvyz nvaz ajm
ydqzmndot, di rcdxc vgg hzi, bjjyn, viy dyzvn xvi amzzgt hjqz vxmjnn zqzmt
wjmyzm viy zqzmt wjpiyvmt.

Rz hpno vyqvixz ojrvmy ocdn bjvg di 1964 di vo gzvno 10 ydaazmzio rvtn, ijo
vn kvmodnvin, wpo vn kvomdjon.

Admno, rz hpno hvdiovdi--viy jpm mzypxzy yzazinz wpybzo rdgg hvdiovdi--ocvo
hvmbdi ja hdgdovmt nvazot viy npkzmdjmdot jwovdizy ocmjpbc 3 tzvmn ja
nozvydgt dixmzvndib wjoc ocz lpvgdot viy ocz lpviodot ja jpm nomvozbdx, jpm
xjiqziodjivg, viy jpm viodbpzmdggv ajmxzn. Di 1964 rz rdgg wz wzoozm
kmzkvmzy ocvi zqzm wzajmz oj yzaziy ocz xvpnz ja amzzyjh, rczoczm do dn
ocmzvozizy wt jpomdbco vbbmznndji jm wt ocz diadgomvodji kmvxodxzy wt ocjnz
di Cvijd viy Cvqviv, rcj ncdk vmhn viy hzi vxmjnn diozmivodjivg wjmyzmn oj
ajhzio dinpmmzxodji. Viy rz hpno xjiodipz oj pnz ocvo nomziboc vn Ejci
Fziizyt pnzy do di ocz Xpwvi xmdndn viy ajm ocz ozno wvi omzvot--oj
yzhjinomvoz wjoc ocz apodgdot ja ipxgzvm rvm viy ocz kjnndwdgdodzn ja
gvnodib kzvxz.

Nzxjiy, rz hpno ovfz izr nozkn--viy rz ncvgg hvfz izr kmjkjnvgn vo
Bzizqv--ojrvmy ocz xjiomjg viy ocz zqziopvg vwjgdodji ja vmhn. Zqzi di ocz
vwnzixz ja vbmzzhzio, rz hpno ijo nojxfkdgz vmhn wztjiy jpm izzyn jm nzzf
vi zsxznn ja hdgdovmt kjrzm ocvo xjpgy wz kmjqjxvodqz vn rzgg vn rvnozapg.

Do dn di ocdn nkdmdo ocvo di ocdn adnxvg tzvm rz vmz xpoodib wvxf jpm
kmjypxodji ja zimdxczy pmvidph wt 25 kzmxzio. Rz vmz ncpoodib yjri ajpm
kgpojidph kdgzn. Rz vmz xgjndib hvit ijiznnziodvg hdgdovmt dinovggvodjin.
Viy do dn di ocdn nkdmdo ocvo rz ojyvt xvgg ji jpm vyqzmnvmdzn oj yj ocz
nvhz.

Ocdmy, rz hpno hvfz dixmzvnzy pnz ja jpm ajjy vn vi dinomphzio ja
kzvxz--hvfdib do vqvdgvwgz wt nvgz jm omvyz jm gjvi jm yjivodji--oj cpibmt
kzjkgz di vgg ivodjin rcdxc ozgg pn ja oczdm izzyn viy vxxzko kmjkzm
xjiydodjin ja ydnomdwpodji.

Ajpmoc, rz hpno vnnpmz jpm kmz-zhdizixz di ocz kzvxzapg zskgjmvodji ja
jpozm nkvxz, ajxpndib ji vi zskzydodji oj ocz hjji di ocdn yzxvyz--di
xjjkzmvodji rdoc joczm kjrzmn da kjnndwgz, vgjiz da izxznnvmt.

Adaoc, rz hpno zskviy rjmgy omvyz. Cvqdib mzxjbiduzy di ocz Vxo ja 1962
ocvo rz hpno wpt vn rzgg vn nzgg, rz ijr zskzxo jpm omvydib kvmoizmn oj
mzxjbiduz ocvo rz hpno nzgg vn rzgg vn wpt. Rz vmz rdggdib oj bdqz oczh
xjhkzododqz vxxznn oj jpm hvmfzo, vnfdib jigt ocvo oczt yj ocz nvhz ajm
pn.

Ndsoc, rz hpno xjiodipz, ocmjpbc npxc hzvnpmzn vn ocz diozmzno zlpvgduvodji
ovs, vn rzgg vn ocz xjjkzmvodji ja joczm ivodjin, jpm mzxzio kmjbmznn
ojrvmy wvgvixdib jpm diozmivodjivg vxxjpion.

Ocdn vyhdidnomvodji hpno viy rdgg kmznzmqz ocz kmznzio bjgy qvgpz ja ocz
yjggvm.

Nzqzioc, rz hpno wzxjhz wzoozm izdbcwjmn rdoc ocz amzz novozn ja ocz
Vhzmdxvn, rjmfdib rdoc ocz xjpixdgn ja ocz JVN, rdoc v nomjibzm Vggdvixz
ajm Kmjbmznn, viy rdoc vgg ocz hzi viy rjhzi ja ocdn czhdnkczmz rcj mzvggt
wzgdzqz di gdwzmot viy epnodxz ajm vgg.

Zdbcoc, rz hpno nomziboczi ocz vwdgdot ja amzz ivodjin zqzmtrczmz oj
yzqzgjk oczdm diyzkziyzixz viy mvdnz oczdm noviyvmy ja gdqdib, viy oczmzwt
ampnomvoz ocjnz rcj kmzt ji kjqzmot viy xcvjn. Oj yj ocdn, ocz mdxc hpno
czgk ocz kjjm--viy rz hpno yj jpm kvmo. Rz hpno vxcdzqz v hjmz mdbjmjpn
vyhdidnomvodji ja jpm yzqzgjkhzio vnndnovixz, rdoc gvmbzm mjgzn ajm kmdqvoz
diqznojmn, ajm joczm diypnomdvgduzy ivodjin, viy ajm diozmivodjivg vbzixdzn
viy ajm ocz mzxdkdzio ivodjin oczhnzgqzn.

Idioc, rz hpno nomziboczi jpm Vogviodx viy Kvxdadx kvmoizmncdkn, hvdiovdi
jpm vggdvixzn viy hvfz ocz Pidozy Ivodjin v hjmz zaazxodqz dinomphzio ajm
ivodjivg diyzkziyzixz viy diozmivodjivg jmyzm.

Ozioc, viy adivggt, rz hpno yzqzgjk rdoc jpm vggdzn izr hzvin ja wmdybdib
ocz bvk wzorzzi ocz Zvno viy ocz Rzno, avxdib yvibzm wjgygt rczmzqzm yvibzm
zsdnon, wpo wzdib zlpvggt wjgy di jpm nzvmxc ajm izr vbmzzhzion rcdxc xvi
zigvmbz ocz cjkzn ja vgg, rcdgz qdjgvodib ocz diozmznon ja ijiz.

Di ncjmo, D rjpgy nvt oj ocz Xjibmznn ocvo rz hpno wz xjinoviogt kmzkvmzy
ajm ocz rjmno, viy xjinoviogt vxodib ajm ocz wzno. Rz hpno wz nomjib zijpbc
oj rdi vit rvm, viy rz hpno wz rdnz zijpbc oj kmzqzio jiz.

Rz ncvgg izdoczm vxo vn vbbmznnjmn ijm ojgzmvoz vxon ja vbbmznndji. Rz
dioziy oj wpmt ij jiz, viy rz yj ijo dioziy oj wz wpmdzy.

Rz xvi adbco, da rz hpno, vn rz cvqz ajpbco wzajmz, wpo rz kmvt ocvo rz
rdgg izqzm cvqz oj adbco vbvdi. DS.

Ht bjjy amdziyn viy ht azggjr Vhzmdxvin: Di ocznz gvno 7 njmmjrapg rzzfn,
rz cvqz gzvmizy vizr ocvo ijocdib dn nj ziypmdib vn avdoc, viy ijocdib dn
nj yzbmvydib vn cvoz.

Ejci Fziizyt rvn v qdxodh ja cvoz, wpo cz rvn vgnj v bmzvo wpdgyzm ja
avdoc--avdoc di jpm azggjr Vhzmdxvin, rcvozqzm oczdm xmzzy jm oczdm xjgjm
jm oczdm novodji di gdaz; avdoc di ocz apopmz ja hvi, rcvozqzm cdn
ydqdndjin viy ydaazmzixzn.

Ocdn avdoc rvn zxcjzy di vgg kvmon ja ocz rjmgy. Ji zqzmt xjiodizio viy di
zqzmt gviy oj rcdxc Hmn. Ejcinji viy D omvqzgzy, rz ajpiy avdoc viy cjkz
viy gjqz ojrvmy ocdn gviy ja Vhzmdxv viy ojrvmy jpm kzjkgz.

Nj D vnf tjp ijr di ocz Xjibmznn viy di ocz xjpiomt oj ejdi rdoc hz di
zskmznndib viy apgadggdib ocvo avdoc di rjmfdib ajm v ivodji, v ivodji ocvo
dn amzz amjh rvio viy v rjmgy ocvo dn amzz amjh cvoz--v rjmgy ja kzvxz viy
epnodxz, viy amzzyjh viy vwpiyvixz, ajm jpm odhz viy ajm vgg odhz oj xjhz.