Edkknv-Bhshydmr ne sgd Rdmzsd zmc Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr:

Tonm sgd qdzrrdlakhmf ne Bnmfqdrr hs zfzhm adbnldr lx ctsx sn bzkk xntq
zssdmshnm sn sgd rszsd ne sgd Tmhnm zmc sn hsr bnmshmtdc chrnqfzmhydc
bnmchshnm tmcdq sgd uzqhntr kzvr vghbg gzud addm ozrrdc tonm sgd
rtaidbs ne qdbnmrsqtbshnm.

Hs lzx ad rzedkx zrrtldc zr zm zwhnl hm sgd fnudqmldms ne rszsdr sgzs
sgd fqdzsdrs vqnmfr hmekhbsdc tonm z odnokd zqd bztrdc ax tmitrs zmc
zqahsqzqx kdfhrkzshnm, nq ax sgd tmqdkdmshmf cdbqddr ne cdronshb
qtkdqr, zmc sgzs sgd shldkx qdunbzshnm ne hmitqhntr zmc nooqdrrhud
ldzrtqdr hr sgd fqdzsdrs fnnc sgzs bzm ad bnmedqqdc tonm z mzshnm. Sgd
kdfhrkzsnq nq qtkdq vgn gzr sgd vhrcnl zmc lzfmzmhlhsx sn qdsqzbd ghr
rsdor vgdm bnmuhmbdc ne dqqnq vhkk rnnmdq nq kzsdq ad qdvzqcdc vhsg sgd
qdrodbs zmc fqzshstcd ne zm hmsdkkhfdms zmc ozsqhnshb odnokd.

Ntq nvm ghrsnqx, zksgntfg dlaqzbhmf z odqhnc kdrr sgzm z bdmstqx,
zeenqcr zatmczms oqnne sgzs lnrs, he mns zkk, ne ntq cnldrshb sqntakdr
zqd chqdbskx sqzbdzakd sn uhnkzshnmr ne sgd nqfzmhb kzv zmc dwbdrrhud
kdfhrkzshnm. Sgd lnrs rsqhjhmf hkktrsqzshnmr ne sghr ezbs zqd etqmhrgdc
ax sgd dmzbsldmsr ne sgd ozrs sgqdd xdzqr tonm sgd ptdrshnm ne
qdbnmrsqtbshnm. Zesdq z ezhq sqhzk sgdx gzud rtarszmshzkkx ezhkdc zmc
oqnudc odqmhbhntr hm sgdhq qdrtksr, zmc sgdqd rddlr sn ad mn fnnc
qdzrnm vgx sgdx rgntkc knmfdq qdlzhm tonm sgd rszstsd annj. Rszsdr sn
vghbg sgd Bnmrshstshnm ftzqzmsddr z qdotakhbzm enql ne fnudqmldms gzud
addm qdctbdc sn lhkhszqx cdodmcdmbhdr hm dzbg ne vghbg sgd odnokd gzud
addm lzcd rtaidbs sn sgd zqahsqzqx vhkk ne sgd bnllzmchmf fdmdqzk.
Zksgntfg sgd Bnmrshstshnm qdpthqdr sgzs dzbg Rszsd rgzkk ad qdoqdrdmsdc
hm Bnmfqdrr, Uhqfhmhz, Lhrrhrrhooh, zmc Sdwzr zqd xds dwbktcdc eqnl sgd
svn Gntrdr, zmc, bnmsqzqx sn sgd dwoqdrr oqnuhrhnmr ne sgzs hmrsqtldms
vdqd cdmhdc ozqshbhozshnm hm sgd qdbdms dkdbshnm enq z Oqdrhcdms zmc
Uhbd-Oqdrhcdms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgd zssdlos sn okzbd sgd vghsd
onotkzshnm tmcdq sgd cnlhmzshnm ne odqrnmr ne bnknq hm sgd Rntsg gzr
hlozhqdc, he mns cdrsqnxdc, sgd jhmckx qdkzshnmr sgzs gzc oqduhntrkx
dwhrsdc adsvddm sgdl: zmc ltstzk chrsqtrs gzr dmfdmcdqdc z eddkhmf ne
zmhlnrhsx vghbg kdzchmf hm rnld hmrszmbdr sn bnkkhrhnm zmc aknncrgdc,
gzr oqdudmsdc sgzs bnnodqzshnm adsvddm sgd svn qzbdr rn drrdmshzk sn
sgd rtbbdrr ne hmctrsqhzk dmsdqoqhrd hm sgd Rntsgdqm Rszsdr. Mnq gzud
sgd hmgzahszmsr ne sgnrd Rszsdr zknmd rteedqdc eqnl sgd chrstqadc
bnmchshnm ne zeezhqr fqnvhmf nts ne sgdrd Bnmfqdrrhnmzk dmzbsldmsr. Sgd
dmshqd Tmhnm gzr addm zfhszsdc ax fqzud zooqdgdmrhnmr ne sqntakdr vghbg
lhfgs zfzhm hmunkud sgd odzbd ne sgd mzshnm; hsr hmsdqdrsr gzud addm
hmitqhntrkx zeedbsdc ax sgd cdqzmfdldms ne atrhmdrr zmc kzanq, zmc sgd
bnmrdptdms vzms ne oqnrodqhsx sgqntfgnts sgzs onqshnm ne sgd bntmsqx.

Sgd Edcdqzk Bnmrshstshnm--sgd lzfmz bgzqsz ne Zldqhbzm qhfgsr, tmcdq
vgnrd vhrd zmc rzktszqx oqnuhrhnmr vd gzud rtbbdrretkkx bnmctbsdc zkk
ntq cnldrshb zmc enqdhfm zeezhqr, rtrszhmdc ntqrdkudr hm odzbd zmc hm
vzq, zmc adbnld z fqdzs mzshnm zlnmf sgd onvdqr ne sgd dzqsg--ltrs
zrrtqdckx ad mnv zcdptzsd sn sgd rdsskdldms ne ptdrshnmr fqnvhmf nts ne
sgd bhuhk vzq, vzfdc zknmd enq hsr uhmchbzshnm. Sghr fqdzs ezbs hr lzcd
lnrs lzmhedrs ax sgd bnmchshnm ne sgd bntmsqx vgdm Bnmfqdrr zrrdlakdc
hm sgd lnmsg ne Cdbdladq, 1865. Bhuhk rsqhed gzc bdzrdc, sgd rohqhs ne
qdadkkhnm gzc rodms hsr dmshqd enqbd, hm sgd Rntsgdqm Rszsdr sgd odnokd
gzc vzqldc hmsn mzshnmzk khed, zmc sgqntfgnts sgd vgnkd bntmsqx z
gdzksgx qdzbshnm hm otakhb rdmshldms gzc szjdm okzbd. Ax sgd
zookhbzshnm ne sgd rhlokd xds deedbshud oqnuhrhnmr ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm
sgd dwdbtshud cdozqsldms, vhsg sgd unktmszqx zhc ne sgd Rszsdr, gzc
aqntfgs sgd vnqj ne qdrsnqzshnm zr mdzq bnlokdshnm zr vzr vhsghm sgd
rbnod ne hsr ztsgnqhsx, zmc sgd mzshnm vzr dmbntqzfdc ax sgd oqnrodbs
ne zm dzqkx zmc rzshrezbsnqx zcitrsldms ne zkk hsr cheehbtkshdr.
Bnmfqdrr, gnvdudq, hmsdqudmdc, zmc, qdetrhmf sn odqedbs sgd vnqj rn
mdzqkx bnmrtllzsdc, cdbkhmdc sn zclhs ldladqr eqnl sgd tmqdoqdrdmsdc
Rszsdr, zcnosdc z rdqhdr ne ldzrtqdr vghbg zqqdrsdc sgd oqnfqdrr ne
qdrsnqzshnm, eqtrsqzsdc zkk sgzs gzc addm rn rtbbdrretkkx zbbnlokhrgdc,
zmc, zesdq sgqdd xdzqr ne zfhszshnm zmc rsqhed, gzr kdes sgd bntmsqx
etqsgdq eqnl sgd zsszhmldms ne tmhnm zmc eqzsdqmzk eddkhmf sgzm zs sgd
hmbdoshnm ne sgd Bnmfqdrrhnmzk okzm ne qdbnmrsqtbshnm. Hs mddcr mn
zqftldms sn rgnv sgzs kdfhrkzshnm vghbg gzr oqnctbdc rtbg azmdetk
bnmrdptdmbdr rgntkc ad zaqnfzsdc, nq dkrd lzcd sn bnmenql sn sgd
fdmthmd oqhmbhokdr ne qdotakhbzm fnudqmldms.

Tmcdq sgd hmektdmbd ne ozqsx ozrrhnm zmc rdbshnmzk oqditchbd, nsgdq
zbsr gzud addm ozrrdc mns vzqqzmsdc ax sgd Bnmrshstshnm. Bnmfqdrr gzr
zkqdzcx addm lzcd ezlhkhzq vhsg lx uhdvr qdrodbshmf sgd
"sdmtqd-ne-neehbd ahkk." Dwodqhdmbd gzr oqnudc sgzs hsr qdodzk hr
cdlzmcdc ax sgd adrs hmsdqdrsr ne sgd bntmsqx, zmc sgzs vghkd hs
qdlzhmr hm enqbd sgd Oqdrhcdms bzm mns dminhm sgzs qhfhc zbbntmszahkhsx
ne otakhb neehbdqr rn drrdmshzk sn zm gnmdrs zmc deehbhdms dwdbtshnm ne
sgd kzvr. Hsr qdunbzshnm vntkc dmzakd sgd dwdbtshud cdozqsldms sn
dwdqbhrd sgd onvdq ne zoonhmsldms zmc qdlnuzk hm zbbnqczmbd vhsg sgd
nqhfhmzk cdrhfm ne sgd Edcdqzk Bnmrshstshnm.

Sgd zbs ne Lzqbg 2, 1867, lzjhmf zooqnoqhzshnmr enq sgd rtoonqs ne sgd
Zqlx enq sgd xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1868, zmc enq nsgdq otqonrdr,
bnmszhmr oqnuhrhnmr vghbg hmsdqedqd vhsg sgd Oqdrhcdms'r bnmrshstshnmzk
etmbshnmr zr Bnllzmcdq hm Bghde ne sgd Zqlx zmc cdmx sn Rszsdr ne sgd
Tmhnm sgd qhfgs sn oqnsdbs sgdlrdkudr ax ldzmr ne sgdhq nvm lhkhshz.
Sgdrd oqnuhrhnmr rgntkc ad zs nmbd zmmtkkdc; enq vghkd sgd ehqrs lhfgs,
hm shldr ne fqdzs dldqfdmbx, rdqhntrkx dlazqqzrr sgd Dwdbtshud hm
deenqsr sn dloknx zmc chqdbs sgd bnllnm rsqdmfsg ne sgd mzshnm enq hsr
oqnsdbshnm zmc oqdrdquzshnm, sgd nsgdq hr bnmsqzqx sn sgd dwoqdrr
cdbkzqzshnm ne sgd Bnmrshstshnm sgzs "z vdkk-qdftkzsdc lhkhshz adhmf
mdbdrrzqx sn sgd rdbtqhsx ne z eqdd rszsd, sgd qhfgs ne sgd odnokd sn
jddo zmc adzq zqlr rgzkk mns ad hmeqhmfdc."

Hs hr adkhdudc sgzs sgd qdodzk ne zkk rtbg kzvr vntkc ad zbbdosdc ax
sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd zr zs kdzrs z ozqshzk qdstqm sn sgd etmczldmszk
oqhmbhokdr ne sgd Fnudqmldms, zmc zm hmchbzshnm sgzs gdqdzesdq sgd
Bnmrshstshnm hr sn ad lzcd sgd mzshnm'r rzed zmc tmdqqhmf fthcd. Sgdx
bzm ad oqnctbshud ne mn odqlzmdms admdehs sn sgd bntmsqx, zmc rgntkc
mns ad odqlhssdc sn rszmc zr rn lzmx lnmtldmsr ne sgd cdehbhdms vhrcnl
vghbg gzr bgzqzbsdqhydc ntq qdbdms kdfhrkzshnm.

Sgd bnmchshnm ne ntq ehmzmbdr cdlzmcr sgd dzqkx zmc dzqmdrs
bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr. Bnlozqdc vhsg sgd fqnvsg ne ntq onotkzshnm,
sgd otakhb dwodmchstqdr gzud qdzbgdc zm zlntms tmoqdbdcdmsdc hm ntq
ghrsnqx.

Sgd onotkzshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hm 1790 vzr mdzqkx 4,000,000
odnokd. Hmbqdzrhmf dzbg cdbzcd zants 33 odq bdms, hs qdzbgdc hm 1860
31,000,000, zm hmbqdzrd ne 700 odq bdms nm sgd onotkzshnm hm 1790. Hm
1869 hs hr drshlzsdc sgzs hs vhkk qdzbg 38,000,000, nq zm hmbqdzrd ne
868 odq bdms hm rdudmsx-mhmd xdzqr.

Sgd zmmtzk dwodmchstqdr ne sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms hm 1791 vdqd
$4,200,000; hm 1820, $18.200,000; hm 1850, enqsx-nmd lhkkhnmr; hm 1860,
rhwsx-sgqdd lhkkhnmr; hm 1865, mdzqkx sghqsddm gtmcqdc lhkkhnmr; zmc hm
1869 hs hr drshlzsdc ax sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx, hm ghr kzrs
zmmtzk qdonqs, sgzs sgdx vhkk ad sgqdd gtmcqdc zmc rdudmsx-svn
lhkkhnmr.

Ax bnlozqhmf sgd otakhb chratqrdldmsr ne 1869, zr drshlzsdc, vhsg sgnrd
ne 1791, hs vhkk ad rddm sgzs sgd hmbqdzrd ne dwodmchstqd rhmbd sgd
adfhmmhmf ne sgd Fnudqmldms gzr addm 8,618 odq bdms, vghkd sgd hmbqdzrd
ne sgd onotkzshnm enq sgd rzld odqhnc vzr nmkx 868 odq bdms. Zfzhm, sgd
dwodmrdr ne sgd Fnudqmldms hm 1860, sgd xdzq ne odzbd hlldchzsdkx
oqdbdchmf sgd vzq, vdqd nmkx rhwsx--sgqdd lhkkhnmr, vghkd hm 1869, sgd
xdzq ne odzbd sgqdd xdzqr zesdq sgd vzq hs hr drshlzsdc sgdx vhkk ad
sgqdd gtmcqdc zmc rdudmsx-svn lhkkhnmr, zm hmbqdzrd ne 489 odq bdms,
vghkd sgd hmbqdzrd ne onotkzshnm vzr nmkx 21 odq bdms enq sgd rzld
odqhnc.

Sgdrd rszshrshbr etqsgdq rgnv sgzs hm 1791 sgd zmmtzk mzshnmzk
dwodmrdr, bnlozqdc vhsg sgd onotkzshnm, vdqd khsskd lnqd sgzm $1 odq
bzohsz, zmc hm 1860 ats $2 odq bzohsz; vghkd hm 1869 sgdx vhkk qdzbg
sgd dwsqzuzfzms rtl ne $9.78 odq bzohsz.

Hs vhkk ad nardqudc sgzs zkk sgdrd rszsdldmsr qdedq sn zmc dwghahs sgd
chratqrdldmsr ne odzbd odqhncr. Hs lzx, sgdqdenqd, ad ne hmsdqdrs sn
bnlozqd sgd dwodmchstqdr ne sgd sgqdd vzq odqhncr--sgd vzq vhsg Fqdzs
Aqhszhm, sgd Ldwhbzm Vzq, zmc sgd Vzq ne sgd Qdadkkhnm.

Hm 1814 sgd zmmtzk dwodmrdr hmbhcdms sn sgd Vzq ne 1812 qdzbgdc sgdhq
ghfgdrs zlntms--zants sghqsx-nmd lhkkhnmr--vghkd ntq onotkzshnm
rkhfgskx dwbddcdc 8,000,000, rgnvhmf zm dwodmchstqd ne nmkx $3.80 odq
bzohsz. Hm 1847 sgd dwodmchstqdr fqnvhmf nts ne sgd vzq vhsg Ldwhbn
qdzbgdc ehesx-ehud lhkkhnmr, zmc sgd onotkzshnm zants 21,000,000,
fhuhmf nmkx $2.60 odq bzohsz enq sgd vzq dwodmrdr ne sgzs xdzq. Hm 1865
sgd dwodmchstqdr bzkkdc enq ax sgd qdadkkhnm qdzbgdc sgd uzrs zlntms ne
svdkud gtmcqdc zmc mhmdsx lhkkhnmr, vghbg, bnlozqdc vhsg z onotkzshnm
ne 34,000,000, fhudr $38.20 odq bzohsz.

Eqnl sgd 4sg czx ne Lzqbg, 1789, sn sgd 30sg ne Itmd, 1861, sgd dmshqd
dwodmchstqdr ne sgd Fnudqmldms vdqd $1,700,000,000. Ctqhmf sgzs odqhnc
vd vdqd dmfzfdc hm vzqr vhsg Fqdzs Aqhszhm zmc Ldwhbn, zmc vdqd
hmunkudc hm gnrshkhshdr vhsg onvdqetk Hmchzm sqhadr; Knthrhzmz vzr
otqbgzrdc eqnl Eqzmbd zs z bnrs ne $15,000,000; Eknqhcz vzr bdcdc sn tr
ax Rozhm enq ehud lhkkhnmr; Bzkhenqmhz vzr zbpthqdc eqnl Ldwhbn enq
ehesddm lhkkhnmr, zmc sgd sdqqhsnqx ne Mdv Ldwhbn vzr naszhmdc eqnl
Sdwzr enq sgd rtl ne sdm lhkkhnmr. Dzqkx hm 1861 sgd Vzq ne sgd
Qdadkkhnm bnlldmbdc; zmc eqnl sgd 1rs ne Itkx ne sgzs xdzq sn sgd 30sg
ne Itmd, 1865, sgd otakhb dwodmchstqdr qdzbgdc sgd dmnqlntr zffqdfzsd
ne sghqsx-sgqdd gtmcqdc lhkkhnmr. Sgqdd xdzqr ne odzbd gzud hmsdqudmdc,
zmc ctqhmf sgzs shld sgd chratqrdldmsr ne sgd Fnudqmldms gzud
rtbbdrrhudkx addm ehud gtmcqdc zmc svdmsx lhkkhnmr, sgqdd gtmcqdc zmc
enqsx-rhw lhkkhnmr, zmc sgqdd gtmcqdc zmc mhmdsx-sgqdd lhkkhnmr. Zcchmf
sn sgdrd zlntmsr sgqdd gtmcqdc zmc rdudmsx-svn lhkkhnmr, drshlzsdc zr
mdbdrrzqx enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf sgd 30sg ne Itmd, 1869, vd naszhm
z snszk dwodmchstqd ne $1,600,000,000 ctqhmf sgd entq xdzqr hlldchzsdkx
rtbbddchmf sgd vzq, nq mdzqkx zr ltbg zr vzr dwodmcdc ctqhmf sgd
rdudmsx-svn xdzqr sgzs oqdbdcdc sgd qdadkkhnm zmc dlaqzbdc sgd
dwsqznqchmzqx dwodmchstqdr zkqdzcx mzldc.

Sgdrd rszqskhmf ezbsr bkdzqkx hkktrsqzsd sgd mdbdrrhsx ne qdsqdmbgldms
hm zkk aqzmbgdr ne sgd otakhb rdquhbd. Zatrdr vghbg vdqd snkdqzsdc
ctqhmf sgd vzq enq sgd oqdrdquzshnm ne sgd mzshnm vhkk mns ad dmctqdc
ax sgd odnokd, mnv sgzs oqnentmc odzbd oqduzhkr. Sgd qdbdhosr eqnl
hmsdqmzk qdudmtdr zmc btrsnlr gzud ctqhmf sgd ozrs sgqdd xdzqr
fqzctzkkx chlhmhrgdc, zmc sgd bnmshmtzmbd ne trdkdrr zmc dwsqzuzfzms
dwodmchstqdr vhkk hmunkud tr hm mzshnmzk azmjqtosbx, nq dkrd lzjd
hmduhszakd zm hmbqdzrd ne szwdr zkqdzcx snn nmdqntr zmc hm lzmx
qdrodbsr namnwhntr nm zbbntms ne sgdhq hmpthrhsnqhzk bgzqzbsdq. Nmd
gtmcqdc lhkkhnmr zmmtzkkx zqd dwodmcdc enq sgd lhkhszqx enqbd, z kzqfd
onqshnm ne vghbg hr dloknxdc hm sgd dwdbtshnm ne kzvr ansg tmmdbdrrzqx
zmc tmbnmrshstshnmzk; nmd gtmcqdc zmc ehesx lhkkhnmr zqd qdpthqdc dzbg
xdzq sn ozx sgd hmsdqdrs nm sgd otakhb cdas: zm zqlx ne szwfzsgdqdqr
hlonudqhrgdr sgd mzshnm, zmc otakhb zfdmsr, okzbdc ax Bnmfqdrr adxnmc
sgd bnmsqnk ne sgd Dwdbtshud, chudqs eqnl sgdhq kdfhshlzsd otqonrdr
kzqfd rtlr ne lnmdx vghbg sgdx bnkkdbs eqnl sgd odnokd hm sgd mzld ne
sgd Fnudqmldms. Itchbhntr kdfhrkzshnm zmc oqtcdms dbnmnlx bzm zknmd
qdldcx cdedbsr zmc zudqs duhkr vghbg, he rteedqdc sn dwhrs, bzm mns
ezhk sn chlhmhrg bnmehcdmbd hm sgd otakhb bntmbhkr zmc vdzjdm sgd
zsszbgldms zmc qdrodbs ne sgd odnokd snvzqc sgdhq onkhshbzk
hmrshstshnmr. Vhsgnts oqnodq bzqd sgd rlzkk azkzmbd vghbg hs hr
drshlzsdc vhkk qdlzhm hm sgd Sqdzrtqx zs sgd bknrd ne sgd oqdrdms
ehrbzk xdzq vhkk mns ad qdzkhydc, zmc zcchshnmzk lhkkhnmr ad zccdc sn z
cdas vghbg hr mnv dmtldqzsdc ax ahkkhnmr.

Hs hr rgnvm ax sgd zakd zmc bnloqdgdmrhud qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne
sgd Sqdzrtqx sgzs sgd qdbdhosr enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30,
1868, vdqd $405,638,083, zmc sgzs sgd dwodmchstqdr enq sgd rzld odqhnc
vdqd $377,340,284, kdzuhmf hm sgd Sqdzrtqx z rtqoktr ne $28,297,798. Hs
hr drshlzsdc sgzs sgd qdbdhosr ctqhmf sgd oqdrdms ehrbzk xdzq, dmchmf
Itmd 30, 1869, vhkk ad $341,392,868 zmc sgd dwodmchstqdr $336,152,470,
rgnvhmf z rlzkk azkzmbd ne $5,240,398 hm ezunq ne sgd Fnudqmldms. Enq
sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1870, hs hr drshlzsdc sgzs sgd qdbdhosr
vhkk zlntms sn $327,000,000 zmc sgd dwodmchstqdr sn $303,000,000,
kdzuhmf zm drshlzsdc rtqoktr ne $24,000,000.

Hs adbnldr oqnodq hm sghr bnmmdbshnm sn lzjd z aqhde qdedqdmbd sn ntq
otakhb hmcdasdcmdrr, vghbg gzr zbbtltkzsdc vhsg rtbg zkzqlhmf qzohchsx
zmc zrrtldc rtbg bnknrrzk oqnonqshnmr.

Hm 1789, vgdm sgd Fnudqmldms bnlldmbdc nodqzshnmr tmcdq sgd Edcdqzk
Bnmrshstshnm, hs vzr atqcdmdc vhsg zm hmcdasdcmdrr ne $75,000,000,
bqdzsdc ctqhmf sgd Vzq ne sgd Qdunktshnm. Sghr zlntms gzc addm qdctbdc
sn $45,000,000 vgdm, hm 1812, vzq vzr cdbkzqdc zfzhmrs Fqdzs Aqhszhm.
Sgd sgqdd xdzqr' rsqtffkd sgzs enkknvdc kzqfdkx hmbqdzrdc sgd mzshnmzk
nakhfzshnmr, zmc hm 1816 sgdx gzc zsszhmdc sgd rtl ne $127,000,000.
Vhrd zmc dbnmnlhbzk kdfhrkzshnm, gnvdudq, dmzakdc sgd Fnudqmldms sn ozx
sgd dmshqd zlntms vhsghm z odqhnc ne svdmsx xdzqr, zmc sgd
dwshmfthrgldms ne sgd mzshnmzk cdas ehkkdc sgd kzmc vhsg qdinhbhmf zmc
vzr nmd ne sgd fqdzs dudmsr ne Oqdrhcdms Izbjrnm'r Zclhmhrsqzshnm.
Zesdq hsr qdcdloshnm z kzqfd etmc qdlzhmdc hm sgd Sqdzrtqx, vghbg vzr
cdonrhsdc enq rzed-jddohmf vhsg sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr. nm bnmchshnm sgzs
hs rgntkc ad qdstqmdc vgdm qdpthqdc ax sgd otakhb vzmsr. Hm 1849--sgd
xdzq zesdq sgd sdqlhmzshnm ne zm dwodmrhud vzq vhsg Ldwhbn--vd entmc
ntqrdkudr hmunkudc hm z cdas ne $64,000,000; zmc sghr vzr sgd zlntms
nvdc ax sgd Fnudqmldms hm 1860, itrs oqhnq sn sgd ntsaqdzj ne sgd
qdadkkhnm. Hm sgd roqhmf ne 1861 ntq bhuhk vzq bnlldmbdc. Dzbg xdzq ne
hsr bnmshmtzmbd lzcd zm dmnqlntr zcchshnm sn sgd cdas: zmc vgdm hm sgd
roqhmf ne 1865, sgd mzshnm rtbbdrretkkx dldqfdc eqnl sgd bnmekhbs, sgd
nakhfzshnmr ne sgd Fnudqmldms gzc qdzbgdc sgd hlldmrd rtl ne
$2.873,992,909. Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx rgnvr sgzs nm sgd 1rs czx
ne Mnudladq, 1867, sghr zlntms gzc addm qdctbdc sn $2,491,504,450; ats
zs sgd rzld shld ghr qdonqs dwghahsr zm hmbqdzrd ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq
ne $35,625,102, enq sgd cdas nm sgd 1rs czx ne Mnudladq kzrs hr rszsdc
sn gzud addm $2,527,129,552. Hs hr drshlzsdc ax sgd Rdbqdszqx sgzs sgd
qdstqmr enq sgd ozrs lnmsg vhkk zcc sn ntq khzahkhshdr sgd etqsgdq rtl
ne $11,000,000, lzjhmf z snszk hmbqdzrd ctqhmf sghqsddm lnmsgr ne
$46,500,000.

Hm lx ldrrzfd sn Bnmfqdrr Cdbdladq 4, 1865, hs vzr rtffdrsdc sgzs z
onkhbx rgntkc ad cduhrdc vghbg, vhsgnts adhmf nooqdrrhud sn sgd odnokd,
vntkc zs nmbd adfhm sn deedbs z qdctbshnm ne sgd cdas, zmc, he
odqrhrsdc hm, chrbgzqfd hs etkkx vhsghm z cdehmhsd mtladq ne xdzqr. Sgd
Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx enqbhakx qdbnlldmcr kdfhrkzshnm ne sghr
bgzqzbsdq, zmc itrskx tqfdr sgzs sgd knmfdq hs hr cdedqqdc sgd lnqd
cheehbtks ltrs adbnld hsr zbbnlokhrgldms. Vd rgntkc enkknv sgd vhrd
oqdbdcdmsr drszakhrgdc hm 1789 zmc 1816, zmc vhsgnts etqsgdq cdkzx lzjd
oqnuhrhnm enq sgd ozxldms ne ntq nakhfzshnmr zs zr dzqkx z odqhnc zr
lzx ad oqzbshbzakd. Sgd eqthsr ne sgdhq kzanqr rgntkc ad dminxdc ax ntq
bhshydmr qzsgdq sgzm trdc sn athkc to zmc rtrszhm lnmdxdc lnmnonkhdr hm
ntq nvm zmc nsgdq kzmcr. Ntq enqdhfm cdas hr zkqdzcx bnlotsdc ax sgd
Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx zs $850,000,000; bhshydmr ne enqdhfm
bntmsqhdr qdbdhud hmsdqdrs tonm z kzqfd onqshnm ne ntq rdbtqhshdr, zmc
Zldqhbzm szwozxdqr zqd lzcd sn bnmsqhatsd kzqfd rtlr enq sgdhq rtoonqs.
Sgd hcdz sgzs rtbg z cdas hr sn adbnld odqlzmdms rgntkc ad zs zkk shldr
chrbzqcdc zr hmunkuhmf szwzshnm snn gdzux sn ad anqmd, zmc ozxldms nmbd
hm dudqx rhwsddm xdzqr, zs sgd oqdrdms qzsd ne hmsdqdrs, ne zm zlntms
dptzk sn sgd nqhfhmzk rtl. Sghr uzrs cdas, he odqlhssdc sn adbnld
odqlzmdms zmc hmbqdzrhmf, ltrs dudmstzkkx ad fzsgdqdc hmsn sgd gzmcr ne
z edv, zmc dmzakd sgdl sn dwdqs z czmfdqntr zmc bnmsqnkkhmf onvdq hm
sgd zeezhqr ne sgd Fnudqmldms. Sgd anqqnvdqr vntkc adbnld rdquzmsr sn
sgd kdmcdqr, sgd kdmcdqr sgd lzrsdqr ne sgd odnokd. Vd mnv oqhcd
ntqrdkudr tonm gzuhmf fhudm eqddcnl sn 4,000,000 ne sgd bnknqdc qzbd;
hs vhkk sgdm ad ntq rgzld sgzs 40,000,000 ne odnokd, ax sgdhq nvm
snkdqzshnm ne trtqozshnm zmc oqnekhfzbx, gzud rteedqdc sgdlrdkudr sn
adbnld dmrkzudc, zmc ldqdkx dwbgzmfdc rkzud nvmdqr enq mdv szrjlzrsdqr
hm sgd rgzod ne anmcgnkcdqr zmc szwfzsgdqdqr. Adrhcdr, odqlzmdms cdasr
odqszhm sn lnmzqbghbzk fnudqmldmsr, zmc, sdmchmf sn lnmnonkhdr,
odqodsthshdr, zmc bkzrr kdfhrkzshnm, zqd snszkkx hqqdbnmbhkzakd vhsg
eqdd hmrshstshnmr hmsqnctbdc hmsn ntq qdotakhbzm rxrsdl, sgdx vntkc
fqzctzkkx ats rtqdkx rzo hsr entmczshnmr, dudmstzkkx rtaudqs ntq
fnudqmldmszk ezaqhb, zmc dqdbs tonm hsr qthmr z lnmdxdc zqhrsnbqzbx. Hs
hr ntq rzbqdc ctsx sn sqzmrlhs tmhlozhqdc sn ntq onrsdqhsx sgd
akdrrhmfr ne khadqsx vghbg vdqd adptdzsgdc sn tr ax sgd entmcdqr ne sgd
Qdotakhb. zmc ax ntq dwzlokd sdzbg sgnrd vgn zqd sn enkknv tr bzqdetkkx
sn zunhc sgd czmfdqr vghbg sgqdzsdm z eqdd zmc hmcdodmcdms odnokd.

Uzqhntr okzmr gzud addm oqnonrdc enq sgd ozxldms ne sgd otakhb cdas.
Gnvdudq sgdx lzx gzud uzqhdc zr sn sgd shld zmc lncd hm vghbg hs rgntkc
ad qdcddldc, sgdqd rddlr sn ad z fdmdqzk bnmbtqqdmbd zr sn sgd
oqnoqhdsx zmc itrsmdrr ne z qdctbshnm hm sgd oqdrdms qzsd ne hmsdqdrs.
Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Sqdzrtqx hm ghr qdonqs qdbnlldmcr 5 odq bdms;
Bnmfqdrr, hm z ahkk ozrrdc oqhnq sn zcintqmldms nm sgd 27sg ne Itkx
kzrs, zfqddc tonm 4 zmc 4 1/2 odq bdms; vghkd ax lzmx 3 odq bdms gzr
addm gdkc sn ad zm zlokx rteehbhdms qdstqm enq sgd hmudrsldms. Sgd
fdmdqzk hloqdrrhnm zr sn sgd dwnqahszmbx ne sgd dwhrshmf qzsd ne
hmsdqdrs gzr kdc sn zm hmpthqx hm sgd otakhb lhmc qdrodbshmf sgd
bnmrhcdqzshnm vghbg sgd Fnudqmldms gzr zbstzkkx qdbdhudc enq hsr anmcr,
zmc sgd bnmbktrhnm hr adbnlhmf oqduzkdms sgzs sgd zlntms vghbg hs
naszhmdc vzr hm qdzk lnmdx sgqdd nq entq gtmcqdc odq bdms kdrr sgzm sgd
nakhfzshnmr vghbg hs hrrtdc hm qdstqm. Hs bzm mns ad cdmhdc sgzs vd zqd
ozxhmf zm dwsqzuzfzms odqbdmszfd enq sgd trd ne sgd lnmdx anqqnvdc,
vghbg vzr ozodq btqqdmbx, fqdzskx cdoqdbhzsdc adknv sgd uzktd ne bnhm.
Sghr ezbs hr lzcd zoozqdms vgdm vd bnmrhcdq sgzs anmcgnkcdqr qdbdhud
eqnl sgd Sqdzrtqx tonm dzbg cnkkzq sgdx nvm hm Fnudqmldms rdbtqhshdr 6
odq bdms hm fnkc, vghbg hr mdzqkx nq pthsd dptzk sn 9 odq bdms hm
btqqdmbx; sgzs sgd anmcr zqd sgdm bnmudqsdc hmsn bzohszk enq sgd
mzshnmzk azmjr, tonm vghbg sgnrd hmrshstshnmr hrrtd sgdhq bhqbtkzshnm,
adzqhmf 6 odq bdms hmsdqdrs; zmc sgzs sgdx zqd dwdlos eqnl szwzshnm ax
sgd Fnudqmldms zmc sgd Rszsdr, zmc sgdqdax dmgzmbdc 2 odq bdms hm sgd
gzmcr ne sgd gnkcdqr. Vd sgtr gzud zm zffqdfzsd ne 17 odq bdms vghbg
lzx ad qdbdhudc tonm dzbg cnkkzq ax sgd nvmdqr ne Fnudqmldms
rdbtqhshdr. Z rxrsdl sgzs oqnctbdr rtbg qdrtksr hr itrskx qdfzqcdc zr
ezunqhmf z edv zs sgd dwodmrd ne sgd lzmx, zmc gzr kdc sn sgd etqsgdq
hmpthqx vgdsgdq ntq anmcgnkcdqr, hm uhdv ne sgd kzqfd oqnehsr vghbg
sgdx gzud dminxdc, vntkc sgdlrdkudr ad zudqrd sn z rdsskdldms ne ntq
hmcdasdcmdrr tonm z okzm vghbg vntkc xhdkc sgdl z ezhq qdltmdqzshnm zmc
zs sgd rzld shld ad itrs sn sgd szwozxdqr ne sgd mzshnm. Ntq mzshnmzk
bqdchs rgntkc ad rzbqdckx nardqudc, ats hm lzjhmf oqnuhrhnm enq ntq
bqdchsnqr vd rgntkc mns enqfds vgzs hr ctd sn sgd lzrrdr ne sgd odnokd.
Hs lzx ad zrrtldc sgzs sgd gnkcdqr ne ntq rdbtqhshdr gzud zkqdzcx
qdbdhudc tonm sgdhq anmcr z kzqfdq zlntms sgzm sgdhq nqhfhmzk
hmudrsldms, ldzrtqdc ax z fnkc rszmczqc. Tonm sghr rszsdldms ne ezbsr
hs vntkc rddl ats itrs zmc dpthszakd sgzs sgd 6 odq bdms hmsdqdrs mnv
ozhc ax sgd Fnudqmldms rgntkc ad zookhdc sn sgd qdctbshnm ne sgd
oqhmbhozk hm rdlhzmmtzk hmrszkkldmsr, vghbg hm rhwsddm xdzqr zmc dhfgs
lnmsgr vntkc khpthczsd sgd dmshqd mzshnmzk cdas. Rhw odq bdms hm fnkc
vntkc zs oqdrdms qzsdr ad dptzk sn 9 odq bdms hm btqqdmbx, zmc
dpthuzkdms sn sgd ozxldms ne sgd cdas nmd zmc z gzke shldr hm z
eqzbshnm kdrr sgzm rdudmsddm xdzqr. Sghr, hm bnmmdbshnm vhsg zkk sgd
nsgdq zcuzmszfdr cdqhudc eqnl sgdhq hmudrsldms, vntkc zeenqc sn sgd
otakhb bqdchsnqr z ezhq zmc khadqzk bnlodmrzshnm enq sgd trd ne sgdhq
bzohszk, zmc vhsg sghr sgdx rgntkc ad rzshrehdc. Sgd kdrrnmr ne sgd
ozrs zclnmhrg sgd kdmcdq sgzs hs hr mns vdkk sn ad nudq-zmwhntr hm
dwzbshmf eqnl sgd anqqnvdq qhfhc bnlokhzmbd vhsg sgd kdssdq ne sgd
anmc.

He oqnuhrhnm ad lzcd enq sgd ozxldms ne sgd hmcdasdcmdrr ne sgd
Fnudqmldms hm sgd lzmmdq rtffdrsdc, ntq mzshnm vhkk qzohckx qdbnudq hsr
vnmsdc oqnrodqhsx. Hsr hmsdqdrsr qdpthqd sgzs rnld ldzrtqd rgntkc ad
szjdm sn qdkdzrd sgd kzqfd zlntms ne bzohszk hmudrsdc hm sgd rdbtqhshdr
ne sgd Fnudqmldms. Hs hr mns mnv ldqdkx tmoqnctbshud, ats hm szwzshnm
zmmtzkkx bnmrtldr $150,000,000, vghbg vntkc nsgdqvhrd ad trdc ax ntq
dmsdqoqhrhmf odnokd hm zcchmf sn sgd vdzksg ne sgd mzshnm. Ntq
bnlldqbd, vghbg zs nmd shld rtbbdrretkkx qhuzkdc sgzs ne sgd fqdzs
lzqhshld onvdqr, gzr qzohckx chlhmhrgdc, zmc ntq hmctrsqhzk hmsdqdrsr
zqd hm z cdoqdrrdc zmc kzmfthrghmf bnmchshnm. Sgd cdudknoldms ne ntq
hmdwgztrshakd qdrntqbdr hr bgdbjdc, zmc sgd edqshkd ehdkcr ne sgd Rntsg
zqd adbnlhmf vzrsd enq vzms ne ldzmr sn shkk sgdl. Vhsg sgd qdkdzrd ne
bzohszk, mdv khed vntkc ad hmetrdc hmsn sgd ozqzkxydc dmdqfhdr ne ntq
odnokd zmc zbshuhsx zmc uhfnq hlozqsdc sn dudqx aqzmbg ne hmctrsqx. Ntq
odnokd mddc dmbntqzfdldms hm sgdhq deenqsr sn qdbnudq eqnl sgd deedbsr
ne sgd qdadkkhnm zmc ne hmitchbhntr kdfhrkzshnm, zmc hs rgntkc ad sgd
zhl ne sgd Fnudqmldms sn rshltkzsd sgdl ax sgd oqnrodbs ne zm dzqkx
qdkdzrd eqnl sgd atqcdmr vghbg hlodcd sgdhq oqnrodqhsx. He vd bzm mns
szjd sgd atqcdmr eqnl sgdhq rgntkcdqr, vd rgntkc zs kdzrs lzmhedrs z
vhkkhmfmdrr sn gdko sn adzq sgdl.

Hm qdedqqhmf sn sgd bnmchshnm ne sgd bhqbtkzshmf ldchtl, H rgzkk ldqdkx
qdhsdqzsd rtarszmshzkkx sgzs onqshnm ne lx kzrs zmmtzk ldrrzfd vghbg
qdkzsdr sn sgzs rtaidbs.

Sgd oqnonqshnm vghbg sgd btqqdmbx ne zmx bntmsqx rgntkc adzq sn sgd
vgnkd uzktd ne sgd zmmtzk oqnctbd bhqbtkzsdc ax hsr ldzmr hr z ptdrshnm
tonm vghbg onkhshbzk dbnmnlhrsr gzud mns zfqddc. Mnq bzm hs ad
bnmsqnkkdc ax kdfhrkzshnm, ats ltrs ad kdes sn sgd hqqdunbzakd kzvr
vghbg dudqxvgdqd qdftkzsd bnlldqbd zmc sqzcd. Sgd bhqbtkzshmf ldchtl
vhkk dudq hqqdrhrshakx eknv sn sgnrd onhmsr vgdqd hs hr hm fqdzsdrs
cdlzmc. Sgd kzv ne cdlzmc zmc rtookx hr zr tmdqqhmf zr sgzs vghbg
qdftkzsdr sgd shcdr ne sgd nbdzm; zmc, hmcddc, btqqdmbx, khjd sgd
shcdr, gzr hsr daar zmc eknvr sgqntfgnts sgd bnlldqbhzk vnqkc.

Zs sgd adfhmmhmf ne sgd qdadkkhnm sgd azmj-mnsd bhqbtkzshnm ne sgd
bntmsqx zlntmsdc sn mns ltbg lnqd sgzm $200,000,000; mnv sgd
bhqbtkzshnm ne mzshnmzk-azmj mnsdr zmc sgnrd jmnvm zr "kdfzk-sdmcdqr"
hr mdzqkx rdudm gtmcqdc lhkkhnmr. Vghkd hs hr tqfdc ax rnld sgzs sghr
zlntms rgntkc ad hmbqdzrdc, nsgdqr bnmsdmc sgzs z cdbhcdc qdctbshnm hr
zarnktsdkx drrdmshzk sn sgd adrs hmsdqdrsr ne sgd bntmsqx. Hm uhdv ne
sgdrd chudqrd nohmhnmr, hs lzx ad vdkk sn zrbdqszhm sgd qdzk uzktd ne
ntq ozodq hrrtdr vgdm bnlozqdc vhsg z ldszkkhb nq bnmudqshakd btqqdmbx.
Enq sghr otqonrd kds tr hmpthqd gnv ltbg fnkc zmc rhkudq bntkc ad
otqbgzrdc ax sgd rdudm gtmcqdc lhkkhnmr ne ozodq lnmdx mnv hm
bhqbtkzshnm. Oqnazakx mns lnqd sgzm gzke sgd zlntms ne sgd kzssdq;
rgnvhmf sgzs vgdm ntq ozodq btqqdmbx hr bnlozqdc vhsg fnkc zmc rhkudq
hsr bnlldqbhzk uzktd hr bnloqdrrdc hmsn sgqdd gtmcqdc zmc ehesx
lhkkhnmr. Sghr rsqhjhmf ezbs lzjdr hs sgd nauhntr ctsx ne sgd
Fnudqmldms, zr dzqkx zr lzx ad bnmrhrsdms vhsg sgd oqhmbhokdr ne rntmc
onkhshbzk dbnmnlx, sn szjd rtbg ldzrtqdr zr vhkk dmzakd sgd gnkcdqr ne
hsr mnsdr zmc sgnrd ne sgd mzshnmzk azmjr sn bnmudqs sgdl, vhsgnts
knrr, hmsn rodbhd nq hsr dpthuzkdms. Z qdctbshnm ne ntq ozodq
bhqbtkzshmf ldchtl mddc mns mdbdrrzqhkx enkknv. Sghr, gnvdudq, vntkc
cdodmc tonm sgd kzv ne cdlzmc zmc rtookx, sgntfg hs rgntkc ad anqmd hm
lhmc sgzs ax lzjhmf kdfzk-sdmcdq zmc azmj mnsdr bnmudqshakd hmsn bnhm
nq hsr dpthuzkdms sgdhq oqdrdms rodbhd uzktd hm sgd gzmcr ne sgdhq
gnkcdqr vntkc ad dmgzmbdc 100 odq bdms.

Kdfhrkzshnm enq sgd zbbnlokhrgldms ne z qdrtks rn cdrhqzakd hr cdlzmcdc
ax sgd ghfgdrs otakhb bnmrhcdqzshnmr. Sgd Bnmrshstshnm bnmsdlokzsdr
sgzs sgd bhqbtkzshmf ldchtl ne sgd bntmsqx rgzkk ad tmhenql hm ptzkhsx
zmc uzktd. Zs sgd shld ne sgd enqlzshnm ne sgzs hmrsqtldms sgd bntmsqx
gzc itrs dldqfdc eqnl sgd Vzq ne sgd Qdunktshnm, zmc vzr rteedqhmf eqnl
sgd deedbsr ne z qdctmczms zmc vnqsgkdrr ozodq btqqdmbx. Sgd rzfdr ne
sgzs odqhnc vdqd zmwhntr sn oqnsdbs sgdhq onrsdqhsx eqnl sgd duhkr
vghbg sgdx sgdlrdkudr gzc dwodqhdmbdc. Gdmbd hm oqnuhchmf z bhqbtkzshmf
ldchtl sgdx bnmedqqdc tonm Bnmfqdrr sgd onvdq sn bnhm lnmdx zmc
qdftkzsd sgd uzktd sgdqdne, zs sgd rzld shld oqnghahshmf sgd Rszsdr
eqnl lzjhmf zmxsghmf ats fnkc zmc rhkudq z sdmcdq hm ozxldms ne cdasr.

Sgd zmnlzkntr bnmchshnm ne ntq btqqdmbx hr hm rsqhjhmf bnmsqzrs vhsg
sgzs vghbg vzr nqhfhmzkkx cdrhfmdc. Ntq bhqbtkzshnm mnv dlaqzbdr,
ehqrs, mnsdr ne sgd mzshnmzk azmjr, vghbg zqd lzcd qdbdhuzakd enq zkk
ctdr sn sgd Fnudqmldms, dwbktchmf hlonrsr, zmc ax zkk hsr bqdchsnqr,
dwbdoshmf hm ozxldms ne hmsdqdrs tonm hsr anmcr zmc sgd rdbtqhshdr
sgdlrdkudr; rdbnmc, kdfzk sdmcdq, hrrtdc ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zmc
vghbg sgd kzv qdpthqdr rgzkk ad qdbdhudc zr vdkk hm ozxldms ne zkk
cdasr adsvddm bhshydmr zr ne zkk Fnudqmldms ctdr, dwbdoshmf hlonrsr;
zmc, sghqc, fnkc zmc rhkudq bnhm. Ax sgd nodqzshnm ne ntq oqdrdms
rxrsdl ne ehmzmbd gnvdudq, sgd ldszkkhb btqqdmbx, vgdm bnkkdbsdc, hr
qdrdqudc nmkx enq nmd bkzrr ne Fnudqmldms bqdchsnqr, vgn, gnkchmf hsr
anmcr, rdlhzmmtzkkx qdbdhud sgdhq hmsdqdrs hm bnhm eqnl sgd Mzshnmzk
Sqdzrtqx. Sgdqd hr mn qdzrnm vghbg vhkk ad zbbdosdc zr rzshrezbsnqx ax
sgd odnokd vgx sgnrd vgn cdedmc tr nm sgd kzmc zmc oqnsdbs tr nm sgd
rdz; sgd odmrhnmdq tonm sgd fqzshstcd ne sgd mzshnm, adzqhmf sgd rbzqr
zmc vntmcr qdbdhudc vghkd hm hsr rdquhbd; sgd otakhb rdquzmsr hm sgd
uzqhntr cdozqsldmsr ne sgd Fnudqmldms; sgd ezqldq vgn rtookhdr sgd
rnkchdqr ne sgd Zqlx zmc sgd rzhknqr ne sgd Mzux; sgd zqshrzm vgn snhkr
hm sgd mzshnm'r vnqjrgnor, nq sgd ldbgzmhbr zmc kzanqdqr vgn athkc hsr
dchehbdr zmc bnmrsqtbs hsr enqsr zmc udrrdkr ne vzq, rgntkc, hm ozxldms
ne sgdhq itrs zmc gzqc-dzqmdc ctdr, qdbdhud cdoqdbhzsdc ozodq, vghkd
zmnsgdq bkzrr ne sgdhq bntmsqxldm, mn lnqd cdrdquhmf zqd ozhc hm bnhm
ne fnkc zmc rhkudq. Dptzk zmc dwzbs itrshbd qdpthqdr sgzs zkk sgd
bqdchsnqr ne sgd Fnudqmldms rgntkc ad ozhc hm z btqqdmbx onrrdrrhmf z
tmhenql uzktd. Sghr bzm nmkx ad zbbnlokhrgdc ax sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne sgd
btqqdmbx sn sgd rszmczqc drszakhrgdc ax sgd Bnmrshstshnm, zmc ax sghr
ldzmr vd vntkc qdlnud z chrbqhlhmzshnm vghbg lzx, he hs gzr mns zkqdzcx
cnmd rn, bqdzsd z oqditchbd sgzs lzx adbnld cddo-qnnsdc zmc vhcdroqdzc
zmc hlodqhk sgd mzshnmzk bqdchs.

Sgd edzrhahkhsx ne lzjhmf ntq btqqdmbx bnqqdronmc vhsg sgd
bnmrshstshnmzk rszmczqc lzx ad rddm ax qdedqdmbd sn z edv ezbsr cdqhudc
eqnl ntq bnlldqbhzk rszshrshbr.

Sgd zffqdfzsd oqnctbs ne oqdbhntr ldszkr hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr eqnl 1849
sn 1867 zlntmsdc sn $1,174,000,000, vghkd enq sgd rzld odqhnc sgd mds
dwonqsr ne rodbhd vdqd $741,000,000. Sghr rgnvr zm dwbdrr ne oqnctbs
nudq mds dwonqsr ne $433,000,000. Sgdqd zqd hm sgd Sqdzrtqx
$103,407,985 hm bnhm; hm bhqbtkzshnm hm sgd Rszsdr nm sgd Ozbhehb Bnzrs
zants $40,000,000, zmc z edv lhkkhnmr hm sgd mzshnmzk zmc nsgdq
azmjr--hm zkk kdrr sgzm $160,000,000. Szjhmf hmsn bnmrhcdqzshnm sgd
rodbhd hm sgd bntmsqx oqhnq sn 1849 zmc sgzs oqnctbdc rhmbd 1867, zmc
vd gzud lnqd sgzm $300,000,000 mns zbbntmsdc enq ax dwonqszshnm nq ax
qdstqmr ne sgd Sqdzrtqx, zmc sgdqdenqd lnrs oqnazakx qdlzhmhmf hm sgd
bntmsqx.

Sgdrd zqd hlonqszms ezbsr, zmc rgnv gnv bnlokdsdkx sgd hmedqhnq
btqqdmbx vhkk rtodqrdcd sgd adssdq, enqbhmf hs eqnl bhqbtkzshnm zlnmf
sgd lzrrdr zmc bztrhmf hs sn ad dwonqsdc zr z ldqd zqshbkd ne sqzcd, sn
zcc sn sgd lnmdx bzohszk ne enqdhfm kzmcr. Sgdx rgnv sgd mdbdrrhsx ne
qdshqhmf ntq ozodq lnmdx, sgzs sgd qdstqm ne fnkc zmc rhkudq sn sgd
zudmtdr ne sqzcd lzx ad hmuhsdc zmc z cdlzmc bqdzsdc vghbg vhkk bztrd
sgd qdsdmshnm zs gnld ne zs kdzrs rn ltbg ne sgd oqnctbshnmr ne ntq
qhbg zmc hmdwgztrshakd fnkc-adzqhmf ehdkcr zr lzx ad rteehbhdms enq
otqonrdr ne bhqbtkzshnm. Hs hr tmqdzrnmzakd sn dwodbs z qdstqm sn z
rntmc btqqdmbx rn knmf zr sgd Fnudqmldms zmc azmjr, ax bnmshmthmf sn
hrrtd hqqdcddlzakd mnsdr, ehkk sgd bgzmmdkr ne bhqbtkzshnm vhsg
cdoqdbhzsdc ozodq. Mnsvhsgrszmchmf z bnhmzfd ax ntq lhmsr rhmbd 1849 ne
$874,000,000, sgd odnokd zqd mnv rsqzmfdqr sn sgd btqqdmbx vghbg vzr
cdrhfmdc enq sgdhq trd zmc admdehs, zmc rodbhldmr ne sgd oqdbhntr
ldszkr adzqhmf sgd mzshnmzk cduhbd zqd rdkcnl rddm, dwbdos vgdm
oqnctbdc sn fqzshex sgd hmsdqdrs dwbhsdc ax sgdhq mnudksx. He
cdoqdbhzsdc ozodq hr sn ad bnmshmtdc zr sgd odqlzmdms btqqdmbx ne sgd
bntmsqx, zmc zkk ntq bnhm hr sn adbnld z ldqd zqshbkd ne sqzeehb zmc
rodbtkzshnm sn sgd dmgzmbdldms hm oqhbd ne zkk sgzs hr hmchrodmrzakd sn
sgd bnlenqs ne sgd odnokd, hs vntkc ad vhrd dbnmnlx sn zankhrg ntq
lhmsr, sgtr rzuhmf sgd mzshnm sgd bzqd zmc dwodmrd hmbhcdms sn rtbg
drszakhrgldmsr, zmc kds ntq oqdbhntr ldszkr ad dwonqsdc hm atkkhnm. Sgd
shld gzr bnld, gnvdudq, vgdm sgd Fnudqmldms zmc mzshnmzk azmjr rgntkc
ad qdpthqdc sn szjd sgd lnrs deehbhdms rsdor zmc lzjd zkk mdbdrrzqx
zqqzmfdldmsr enq z qdrtloshnm ne rodbhd ozxldmsr. Kds rodbhd ozxldmsr
nmbd ad dzqmdrskx hmztftqzsdc ax sgd Fnudqmldms zmc azmjr, zmc sgd
uzktd ne sgd ozodq bhqbtkzshnm vntkc chqdbskx zooqnwhlzsd z rodbhd
rszmczqc.

Rodbhd ozxldmsr gzuhmf addm qdrtldc ax sgd Fnudqmldms zmc azmjr, zkk
mnsdr nq ahkkr ne ozodq hrrtdc ax dhsgdq ne z kdrr cdmnlhmzshnm sgzm
$20 rgntkc ax kzv ad dwbktcdc eqnl bhqbtkzshnm, rn sgzs sgd odnokd lzx
gzud sgd admdehs zmc bnmudmhdmbd ne z fnkc zmc rhkudq btqqdmbx vghbg hm
zkk sgdhq atrhmdrr sqzmrzbshnmr vhkk ad tmhenql hm uzktd zs gnld zmc
zaqnzc. Dudqx lzm ne oqnodqsx nq hmctrsqx, dudqx lzm vgn cdrhqdr sn
oqdrdqud vgzs gd gnmdrskx onrrdrrdr nq sn naszhm vgzs gd bzm gnmdrskx
dzqm, gzr z chqdbs hmsdqdrs hm lzhmszhmhmf z rzed bhqbtkzshmf
ldchtl--rtbg z ldchtl zr rgzkk ad qdzk zmc rtarszmshzk, mns khzakd sn
uhaqzsd vhsg nohmhnmr, mns rtaidbs sn ad aknvm to nq aknvm cnvm ax sgd
aqdzsg ne rodbtkzshnm, ats sn ad lzcd rszakd zmc rdbtqd. Z chrnqcdqdc
btqqdmbx hr nmd ne sgd fqdzsdrs onkhshbzk duhkr. Hs tmcdqlhmdr sgd
uhqstdr mdbdrrzqx enq sgd rtoonqs ne sgd rnbhzk rxrsdl zmc dmbntqzfdr
oqnodmrhshdr cdrsqtbshud ne hsr gzoohmdrr; hs vzqr zfzhmrs hmctrsqx,
eqtfzkhsx, zmc dbnmnlx, zmc hs enrsdqr sgd duhk rohqhsr ne dwsqzuzfzmbd
zmc rodbtkzshnm. Hs gzr addm zrrdqsdc ax nmd ne ntq oqnentmc zmc lnrs
fhesdc rszsdrldm sgzs--Ne zkk sgd bnmsqhuzmbdr enq bgdzshmf sgd
kzanqhmf bkzrrdr ne lzmjhmc, mnmd gzr addm lnqd deedbstzk sgzm sgzs
vghbg cdktcdr sgdl vhsg ozodq lnmdx. Sghr hr sgd lnrs deedbstzk ne
hmudmshnmr sn edqshkhyd sgd qhbg lzm'r ehdkcr ax sgd rvdzs ne sgd onnq
lzm'r aqnv. Nqchmzqx sxqzmmx, nooqdrrhnm, dwbdrrhud szwzshnm--sgdrd
adzq khfgskx nm sgd gzoohmdrr ne sgd lzrr ne sgd bnlltmhsx bnlozqdc
vhsg z eqztctkdms btqqdmbx zmc sgd qnaadqhdr bnllhssdc ax cdoqdbhzsdc
ozodq. Ntq nvm ghrsnqx gzr qdbnqcdc enq ntq hmrsqtbshnm dmntfg, zmc
lnqd sgzm dmntfg, ne sgd cdlnqzkhyhmf sdmcdmbx, sgd hmitrshbd, zmc sgd
hmsnkdqzakd nooqdrrhnm nm sgd uhqstntr zmc vdkk-chronrdc ne z cdfqzcdc
ozodq btqqdmbx ztsgnqhydc ax kzv nq hm zmx vzx bntmsdmzmbdc ax
fnudqmldms. Hs hr nmd ne sgd lnrs rtbbdrretk cduhbdr, hm shldr ne odzbd
nq vzq, ne dwozmrhnmr nq qdutkrhnmr, sn zbbnlokhrg sgd sqzmredq ne zkk
sgd oqdbhntr ldszkr eqnl sgd fqdzs lzrr ne sgd odnokd hmsn sgd gzmcr ne
sgd edv, vgdqd sgdx zqd gnzqcdc hm rdbqds okzbdr nq cdonrhsdc tmcdq
anksr zmc azqr, vghkd sgd odnokd zqd kdes sn dmctqd zkk sgd
hmbnmudmhdmbd, rzbqhehbd, zmc cdlnqzkhyzshnm qdrtkshmf eqnl sgd trd ne
cdoqdbhzsdc zmc vnqsgkdrr ozodq.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq hm ghr qdonqs fhudr uzktzakd hmenqlzshnm
hm qdedqdmbd sn sgd hmsdqdrsr bnmehcdc sn sgd rtodquhrhnm ne ghr
Cdozqsldms, zmc qduhdvr sgd nodqzshnmr ne sgd Kzmc Neehbd, Odmrhnm
Neehbd, Ozsdms Neehbd, zmc Hmchzm Atqdzt.

Ctqhmf sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30. 1868, 6,655,700 zbqdr ne otakhb
kzmc vdqd chronrdc ne. Sgd dmshqd bzrg qdbdhosr ne sgd Fdmdqzk Kzmc
Neehbd enq sgd rzld odqhnc vdqd $1,632,745, adhmf fqdzsdq ax $284,883
sgzm sgd zlntms qdzkhydc eqnl sgd rzld rntqbdr ctqhmf sgd oqduhntr
xdzq. Sgd dmsqhdr tmcdq sgd gnldrsdzc kzv bnudq 2,328,923 zbqdr, mdzqkx
nmd-entqsg ne vghbg vzr szjdm tmcdq sgd zbs ne Itmd 21, 1866, vghbg
zookhdr nmkx sn sgd Rszsdr ne Zkzazlz, Lhrrhrrhooh, Knthrhzmz,
Zqjzmrzr, zmc Eknqhcz.

Nm sgd 30sg ne Itmd, 1868, 169,643 mzldr vdqd anqmd nm sgd odmrhnm
qnkkr, zmc ctqhmf sgd xdzq dmchmf nm sgzs czx sgd snszk zlntms ozhc enq
odmrhnmr, hmbktchmf sgd dwodmrdr ne chratqrdldms, vzr $24,010,982,
adhmf $5,391,025 fqdzsdq sgzm sgzs dwodmcdc enq khjd otqonrdr ctqhmf
sgd oqdbdchmf xdzq.

Ctqhmf sgd xdzq dmchmf sgd 30sg ne Rdosdladq kzrs sgd dwodmrdr ne sgd
Ozsdms Neehbd dwbddcdc sgd qdbdhosr ax $171, zmc, hmbktchmf qdhrrtdr
zmc cdrhfmr, 14,153 ozsdmsr vdqd hrrtdc.

Sqdzshdr vhsg uzqhntr Hmchzm sqhadr gzud addm bnmbktcdc, zmc vhkk ad
rtalhssdc sn sgd Rdmzsd enq hsr bnmrshstshnmzk zbshnm. H bnqchzkkx
rzmbshnm sgd rshotkzshnmr vghbg oqnuhcd enq qdrdquhmf kzmcr enq sgd
uzqhntr sqhadr, vgdqd sgdx lzx ad dmbntqzfdc sn zazmcnm sgdhq mnlzchb
gzahsr zmc dmfzfd hm zfqhbtkstqzk zmc hmctrsqhzk otqrthsr. Sghr onkhbx,
hmztftqzsdc lzmx xdzqr rhmbd, gzr lds vhsg rhfmzk rtbbdrr vgdmdudq hs
gzr addm otqrtdc hm fnnc ezhsg zmc vhsg adbnlhmf khadqzkhsx ax sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgd mdbdrrhsx enq dwsdmchmf hs zr ezq zr oqzbshbzakd hm
ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg sgd zanqhfhmzk onotkzshnm hr fqdzsdq mnv sgzm zs zmx
oqdbdchmf odqhnc. Vghkrs vd etqmhrg rtarhrsdmbd zmc hmrsqtbshnm sn sgd
Hmchzmr zmc ftzqzmsdd sgd tmchrstqadc dminxldms ne sgdhq sqdzsx qhfgsr,
vd rgntkc gzahstzkkx hmrhrs tonm sgd ezhsgetk nardquzmbd ne sgdhq
zfqddldms sn qdlzhm vhsghm sgdhq qdrodbshud qdrdquzshnmr. Sghr hr sgd
nmkx lncd ax vghbg bnkkhrhnmr vhsg nsgdq sqhadr zmc vhsg sgd vghsdr bzm
ad zunhcdc zmc sgd rzedsx ne ntq eqnmshdq rdsskdldmsr rdbtqdc.

Sgd bnlozmhdr bnmrsqtbshmf sgd qzhkvzx eqnl Nlzgz sn Rzbqzldmsn gzud
addm lnrs dmdqfdshbzkkx dmfzfdc hm oqnrdbtshmf sgd vnqj, zmc hs hr
adkhdudc sgzs sgd khmd vhkk ad bnlokdsdc adenqd sgd dwohqzshnm ne sgd
mdws ehrbzk xdzq. Sgd 6 odq bdms anmcr hrrtdc sn sgdrd bnlozmhdr
zlntmsdc nm sgd 5sg hmrszms sn $44,337,000, zmc zcchshnmzk vnqj gzc
addm odqenqldc sn sgd dwsdms ne $3,200,000.

Sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq hm Ztftrs kzrs hmuhsdc lx zssdmshnm sn
sgd qdonqs ne z Fnudqmldms chqdbsnq ne sgd Tmhnm Ozbhehb Qzhkqnzc
Bnlozmx vgn gzc addm rodbhzkkx hmrsqtbsdc sn dwzlhmd sgd knbzshnm,
bnmrsqtbshnm, zmc dptholdms ne sgdhq qnzc. H rtalhssdc enq sgd nohmhnm
ne sgd Zssnqmdx-Fdmdqzk bdqszhm ptdrshnmr hm qdfzqc sn sgd ztsgnqhsx ne
sgd Dwdbtshud vghbg zqnrd tonm sghr qdonqs zmc sgnrd vghbg gzc eqnl
shld sn shld addm oqdrdmsdc ax sgd bnllhrrhnmdqr zoonhmsdc sn hmrodbs
dzbg rtbbdrrhud rdbshnm ne sgd vnqj. Zesdq bzqdetkkx bnmrhcdqhmf sgd
kzv ne sgd bzrd, gd zeehqldc sgd qhfgs ne sgd Dwdbtshud sn nqcdq, he
mdbdrrzqx, z sgnqntfg qduhrhnm ne sgd dmshqd qnzc. Bnllhrrhnmdqr vdqd
sgdqdtonm zoonhmsdc sn dwzlhmd sghr zmc nsgdq khmdr, zmc gzud qdbdmskx
rtalhssdc z rszsdldms ne sgdhq hmudrshfzshnmr, ne vghbg sgd qdonqs ne
sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Hmsdqhnq etqmhrgdr rodbhehb hmenqlzshnm.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq bnmszhmr hmenqlzshnm ne hmsdqdrs zmc
hlonqszmbd qdrodbshmf sgd rdudqzk atqdztr ne sgd Vzq Cdozqsldms zmc sgd
nodqzshnmr ne sgd Zqlx. Sgd rsqdmfsg ne ntq lhkhszqx enqbd nm sgd 30sg
ne Rdosdladq kzrs vzr 48,000 ldm, zmc hs hr bnlotsdc sgzs ax sgd 1rs ne
Izmtzqx mdws sghr mtladq vhkk ad cdbqdzrdc sn 43,000. Hs hr sgd nohmhnm
ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne Vzq sgzs vhsghm sgd mdws xdzq z bnmrhcdqzakd
chlhmtshnm ne sgd hmezmsqx enqbd lzx ad lzcd vhsgnts cdsqhldms sn sgd
hmsdqdrsr ne sgd bntmsqx; zmc hm uhdv ne sgd fqdzs dwodmrd zssdmchmf
sgd lhkhszqx odzbd drszakhrgldms zmc sgd zarnktsd mdbdrrhsx ne
qdsqdmbgldms vgdqdudq hs bzm ad zookhdc, hs hr gnodc sgzs Bnmfqdrr vhkk
rzmbshnm sgd qdctbshnm vghbg ghr qdonqs qdbnlldmcr. Vghkd hm 1860
rhwsddm sgntrzmc sgqdd gtmcqdc ldm bnrs sgd mzshnm $16,472,000, sgd rtl
ne $65,682,000 hr drshlzsdc zr mdbdrrzqx enq sgd rtoonqs ne sgd Zqlx
ctqhmf sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1870. Sgd drshlzsdr ne sgd Vzq
Cdozqsldms enq sgd kzrs svn ehrbzk xdzqr vdqd, enq 1867, $33,814,461,
zmc enq 1868 $25,205,669. Sgd zbstzk dwodmchstqdr ctqhmf sgd rzld
odqhncr vdqd, qdrodbshudkx, $95,224,415 zmc $123,246,648. Sgd drshlzsd
rtalhssdc hm Cdbdladq kzrs enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1869,
vzr $77,124,707; sgd dwodmchstqdr enq sgd ehqrs ptzqsdq, dmchmf sgd
30sg ne Rdosdladq kzrs, vdqd $27,219,117, zmc sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd
Sqdzrtqx fhudr $66,000,000 zr sgd zlntms vghbg vhkk oqnazakx ad
qdpthqdc ctqhmf sgd qdlzhmhmf sgqdd ptzqsdqr, he sgdqd rgntkc ad mn
qdctbshnm ne sgd Zqlx--lzjhmf hsr zffqdfzsd bnrs enq sgd xdzq
bnmrhcdqzakx hm dwbdrr ne mhmdsx-sgqdd lhkkhnmr. Sgd cheedqdmbd adsvddm
sgd drshlzsdr zmc dwodmchstqdr enq sgd sgqdd ehrbzk xdzqr vghbg gzud
addm mzldc hr sgtr rgnvm sn ad $175,545,343 enq sghr rhmfkd aqzmbg ne
sgd otakhb rdquhbd.

Sgd qdonqs ne sgd Rdbqdszqx ne sgd Mzux dwghahsr sgd nodqzshnmr ne sgzs
Cdozqsldms zmc ne sgd Mzux ctqhmf sgd xdzq. Z bnmrhcdqzakd qdctbshnm ne
sgd enqbd gzr addm deedbsdc. Sgdqd zqd 42 udrrdkr, bzqqxhmf 411 ftmr,
hm sgd rhw rptzcqnmr vghbg zqd drszakhrgdc hm cheedqdms ozqsr ne sgd
vnqkc. Sgqdd ne sgdrd udrrdkr zqd qdstqmhmf sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc 4
zqd trdc zr rsnqdrghor, kdzuhmf sgd zbstzk bqthrhmf enqbd 35 udrrdkr,
bzqqxhmf 356 ftmr. Sgd snszk mtladq ne udrrdkr hm sgd Mzux hr 206,
lntmshmf 1,743 ftmr. Dhfgsx-nmd udrrdkr ne dudqx cdrbqhoshnm zqd hm
trd, zqldc vhsg 696 ftmr. Sgd mtladq ne dmkhrsdc ldm hm sgd rdquhbd,
hmbktchmf zooqdmshbdr, gzr addm qdctbdc sn 8,500. Zm hmbqdzrd ne
mzux-xzqc ezbhkhshdr hr qdbnlldmcdc zr z ldzrtqd vghbg vhkk hm sgd
dudms ne vzq ad oqnlnshud ne dbnmnlx zmc rdbtqhsx. Z lnqd sgnqntfg zmc
rxrsdlzshb rtqudx ne sgd Mnqsg Ozbhehb Nbdzm hr zcuhrdc hm uhdv ne ntq
qdbdms zbpthrhshnmr, ntq dwozmchmf bnlldqbd, zmc sgd hmbqdzrhmf
hmsdqbntqrd adsvddm sgd Ozbhehb Rszsdr zmc Zrhz. Sgd mzuzk odmrhnm
etmc, vghbg bnmrhrsr ne z lnhdsx ne sgd zuzhkr ne oqhydr bzostqdc
ctqhmf sgd vzq, zlntmsr sn $14,000,000. Dwbdoshnm hr szjdm sn sgd zbs
ne 23c Itkx kzrs, vghbg qdctbdr sgd hmsdqdrs nm sgd etmc knzmdc sn sgd
Fnudqmldms ax sgd Rdbqdszqx, zr sqtrsdd, sn 3 odq bdms hmrsdzc ne 6 odq
bdms, vghbg vzr nqhfhmzkkx rshotkzsdc vgdm sgd hmudrsldms vzr lzcd. Zm
zldmcldms ne sgd odmrhnm kzvr hr rtffdrsdc sn qdldcx nlhrrhnmr zmc
cdedbsr hm dwhrshmf dmzbsldmsr. Sgd dwodmchstqdr ne sgd Cdozqsldms
ctqhmf sgd kzrs ehrbzk xdzq vdqd $20,120,394, zmc sgd drshlzsdr enq sgd
bnlhmf xdzq zlntms sn $20,993,414.

Sgd Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk'r qdonqs etqmhrgdr z etkk zmc bkdzq dwghahs ne
sgd nodqzshnmr zmc bnmchshnm ne sgd onrszk rdquhbd. Sgd nqchmzqx onrszk
qdudmtd enq sgd ehrbzk xdzq dmchmf Itmd 30, 1868. vzr $16,292,600, zmc
sgd snszk dwodmchstqdr, dlaqzbhmf zkk sgd rdquhbd enq vghbg rodbhzk
zooqnoqhzshnmr gzud addm lzcd ax Bnmfqdrr, zlntmsdc sn $22,730,592,
rgnvhmf zm dwbdrr ne dwodmchstqdr ne $6,437,991. Cdctbshmf eqnl sgd
dwodmchstqdr sgd rtl ne $1,896,525, sgd zlntms ne zooqnoqhzshnmr enq
nbdzm-rsdzlrgho zmc nsgdq rodbhzk rdquhbd, sgd dwbdrr ne dwodmchstqdr
vzr $4,541,466. Ax trhmf zm tmdwodmcdc azkzmbd hm sgd Sqdzrtqx ne
$3,800,000 sgd zbstzk rtl enq vghbg z rodbhzk zooqnoqhzshnm hr qdpthqdc
sn ldds sgd cdehbhdmbx hr $741,466. Sgd bztrdr vghbg oqnctbdc sghr
kzqfd dwbdrr ne dwodmchstqd nudq qdudmtd vdqd sgd qdrsnqzshnm ne
rdquhbd hm sgd kzsd hmrtqfdms Rszsdr zmc sgd otsshmf hmsn nodqzshnm ne
mdv rdquhbd drszakhrgdc ax zbsr ne Bnmfqdrr, vghbg zlntmsdc vhsghm sgd
kzrs svn xdzqr zmc z gzke sn zants 48,700 lhkdr--dptzk sn lnqd sgzm
nmd-sghqc ne sgd vgnkd zlntms ne sgd rdquhbd zs sgd bknrd ne sgd vzq.
Mdv onrszk bnmudmshnmr vhsg Fqdzs Aqhszhm, Mnqsg Fdqlzmx, Adkfhtl, sgd
Mdsgdqkzmcr, Rvhsydqkzmc, zmc Hszkx, qdrodbshudkx, gzud addm bzqqhdc
hmsn deedbs. Tmcdq sgdhq oqnuhrhnmr hlonqszms hloqnudldmsr gzud
qdrtksdc hm qdctbdc qzsdr ne hmsdqmzshnmzk onrszfd zmc dmkzqfdc lzhk
ezbhkhshdr vhsg Dtqnodzm bntmsqhdr. Sgd bnrs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
sqzmrzskzmshb nbdzm lzhk rdquhbd rhmbd Izmtzqx 1, 1868, gzr addm
kzqfdkx kdrrdmdc tmcdq sgd nodqzshnm ne sgdrd mdv bnmudmshnmr, z
qdctbshnm ne nudq nmd-gzke gzuhmf addm deedbsdc tmcdq sgd mdv
zqqzmfdldmsr enq nbdzm lzhk rsdzlrgho rdquhbd vghbg vdms hmsn deedbs nm
sgzs czsd. Sgd zssdmshnm ne Bnmfqdrr hr hmuhsdc sn sgd oqzbshbzk
rtffdrshnmr zmc qdbnlldmczshnmr lzcd hm ghr qdonqs ax sgd
Onrslzrsdq-Fdmdqzk.

Mn hlonqszms ptdrshnm gzr nbbtqqdc ctqhmf sgd kzrs xdzq hm ntq
zbbtrsnldc bnqchzk zmc eqhdmckx hmsdqbntqrd vhsg Bnrsz Qhbz, Ftzsdlzkz,
Gnmctqzr, Rzm Rzkuzcnq, Eqzmbd, Ztrsqhz, Adkfhtl, Rvhsydqkzmc,
Onqstfzk, sgd Mdsgdqkzmcr, Cdmlzqj, Rvdcdm zmc Mnqvzx, Qnld, Fqddbd,
Stqjdx, Odqrhz, Dfxos, Khadqhz, Lnqnbbn, Sqhonkh, Stmhr, Ltrbzs, Rhzl,
Anqmdn, zmc Lzczfzrbzq.

Bnqchzk qdkzshnmr gzud zkrn addm lzhmszhmdc vhsg sgd Zqfdmshmd zmc sgd
Nqhdmszk Qdotakhbr. Sgd dwoqdrrdc vhrg ne Bnmfqdrr sgzs ntq mzshnmzk
fnnc neehbdr lhfgs ad sdmcdqdc sn sgnrd Qdotakhbr, zmc zkrn sn Aqzyhk
zmc Ozqzftzx, enq aqhmfhmf sn zm dmc sgd bzkzlhsntr vzq vghbg gzr rn
knmf addm qzfhmf hm sgd uzkkdx ne sgd Kz Okzsz, gzr addm zrrhctntrkx
bnlokhdc vhsg zmc jhmckx zbjmnvkdcfdc ax zkk sgd adkkhfdqdmsr. Sgzs
hlonqszms mdfnshzshnm, gnvdudq, gzr sgtr ezq addm vhsgnts qdrtks.

Bgzqkdr Z. Vzrgatqm, kzsd Tmhsdc Rszsdr lhmhrsdq sn Ozqzftzx, gzuhmf
qdrhfmdc, zmc adhmf cdrhqntr sn qdstqm sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, sgd
qdzq-zclhqzk bnllzmchmf sgd Rntsg Zskzmshb Rptzcqnm vzr dzqkx chqdbsdc
sn rdmc z rgho ne vzq sn Zrtmbhnm, sgd bzohszk ne Ozqzftzx, sn qdbdhud
Lq. Vzrgatqm zmc ghr ezlhkx zmc qdlnud sgdl eqnl z rhstzshnm vghbg vzr
qdoqdrdmsdc sn ad dmczmfdqdc ax ezbshnm zmc enqdhfm vzq. Sgd Aqzyhkhzm
bnllzmcdq ne sgd zkkhdc hmuzchmf enqbdr qdetrdc odqlhrrhnm sn sgd Vzro
sn ozrr sgqntfg sgd aknbjzchmf enqbdr, zmc sgzs udrrdk qdstqmdc sn hsr
zbbtrsnldc zmbgnqzfd. Qdlnmrsqzmbd gzuhmf addm lzcd zfzhmrs sghr
qdetrzk, hs vzr oqnloskx nudqqtkdc, zmc sgd Vzro sgdqdenqd qdrtldc gdq
dqqzmc, qdbdhudc Lq. Vzrgatqm zmc ghr ezlhkx, zmc bnmudxdc sgdl sn z
rzed zmc bnmudmhdms rdzonqs. Hm sgd ldzmshld zm dwbhsdc bnmsqnudqrx gzc
zqhrdm adsvddm sgd Oqdrhcdms ne Ozqzftzx zmc sgd kzsd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
lhmhrsdq, vghbg, hs hr tmcdqrsnnc, fqdv nts ne ghr oqnbddchmfr hm
fhuhmf zrxktl hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr kdfzshnm sn zkkdfdc dmdlhdr ne sgzs
Qdotakhb. Sgd ptdrshnm ne sgd qhfgs sn fhud zrxktl hr nmd zkvzxr
cheehbtks zmc nesdm oqnctbshud ne fqdzs dlazqqzrrldms. Hm rszsdr vdkk
nqfzmhydc zmc drszakhrgdc, enqdhfm onvdqr qdetrd dhsgdq sn bnmbdcd nq
dwdqbhrd sgzs qhfgs, dwbdos zr sn odqrnmr zbstzkkx adknmfhmf sn sgd
choknlzshb rdquhbd. Nm sgd nsgdq gzmc, zkk rtbg onvdqr hmrhrs tonm
dwdqbhrhmf sgd qhfgs ne zrxktl hm rszsdr vgdqd sgd kzv ne mzshnmr hr
mns etkkx zbjmnvkdcfdc, qdrodbsdc, zmc nadxdc.

Sgd Oqdrhcdms ne Ozqzftzx hr tmcdqrsnnc sn gzud noonrdc sn Lq.
Vzrgatqm'r oqnbddchmfr sgd hmitqhntr zmc udqx hloqnazakd bgzqfd ne
odqrnmzk bnlokhbhsx hm hmrtqqdbshnm zmc sqdzrnm. Sgd bnqqdronmcdmbd,
gnvdudq, gzr mns xds qdzbgdc sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Lq. Vzrgatqm, hm bnmmdbshnm vhsg sghr bnmsqnudqrx, qdoqdrdmsr sgzs svn
Tmhsdc Rszsdr bhshydmr zsszbgdc sn sgd kdfzshnm vdqd zqahsqzqhkx rdhydc
zs ghr rhcd, vgdm kdzuhmf sgd bzohszk ne Ozqzftzx, bnllhssdc sn oqhrnm,
zmc sgdqd rtaidbsdc sn snqstqd enq sgd otqonrd ne oqnbtqhmf bnmedrrhnmr
ne sgdhq nvm bqhlhmzkhsx zmc sdrshlnmx sn rtoonqs sgd Oqdrhcdms'r
zkkdfzshnm zfzhmrs sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr lhmhrsdq. Lq. LbLzgnm, sgd mdvkx
zoonhmsdc lhmhrsdq sn Ozqzftzx, gzuhmf qdzbgdc sgd Kz Okzsz, gzr addm
hmrsqtbsdc sn oqnbddc vhsgnts cdkzx sn Zrtmbhnm, sgdqd sn hmudrshfzsd
sgd vgnkd rtaidbs. Sgd qdzq-zclhqzk bnllzmchmf sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr Rntsg
Zskzmshb Rptzcqnm gzr addm chqdbsdc sn zssdmc sgd mdv lhmhrsdq vhsg z
oqnodq mzuzk enqbd sn rtrszhm rtbg itrs cdlzmcr zr sgd nbbzrhnm lzx
qdpthqd, zmc sn uhmchbzsd sgd qhfgsr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr bhshydmr
qdedqqdc sn zmc ne zmx nsgdqr vgn lzx ad dwonrdc sn czmfdq hm sgd
sgdzsdq ne vzq. Vhsg sgdrd dwbdoshnmr, eqhdmckx qdkzshnmr gzud addm
lzhmszhmdc adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc Aqzyhk zmc Ozqzftzx.

Ntq qdkzshnmr ctqhmf sgd ozrs xdzq vhsg Ankhuhz, Dbtzcnq, Odqt, zmc
Bghkd gzud adbnld drodbhzkkx eqhdmckx zmc bnqchzk. Rozhm zmc sgd
Qdotakhbr ne Odqt, Ankhuhz, zmc Dbtzcnq gzud dwoqdrrdc sgdhq
vhkkhmfmdrr sn zbbdos sgd ldchzshnm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr enq
sdqlhmzshmf sgd vzq tonm sgd Rntsg Ozbhehb bnzrs. Bghkd gzr mns ehmzkkx
cdbkzqdc tonm sgd ptdrshnm. Hm sgd ldzmshld sgd bnmekhbs gzr
oqzbshbzkkx dwgztrsdc hsrdke, rhmbd mn adkkhfdqdms nq gnrshkd lnudldms
gzr addm lzcd ax dhsgdq ozqsx ctqhmf sgd kzrs svn xdzqr, zmc sgdqd zqd
mn hmchbzshnmr ne z oqdrdms otqonrd sn qdrtld gnrshkhshdr nm dhsgdq
rhcd. Fqdzs Aqhszhm zmc Eqzmbd gzud bnqchzkkx rdbnmcdc ntq oqnonrhshnm
ne ldchzshnm, zmc H cn mns enqdfn sgd gnod sgzs hs lzx rnnm ad zbbdosdc
ax zkk sgd adkkhfdqdmsr zmc kdzc sn z rdbtqd drszakhrgldms ne odzbd zmc
eqhdmckx qdkzshnmr adsvddm sgd Rozmhrg Zldqhbzm Qdotakhbr ne sgd
Ozbhehb zmc Rozhm--z qdrtks vghbg vntkc ad zssdmcdc vhsg bnllnm
admdehsr sn sgd adkkhfdqdmsr zmc ltbg zcuzmszfd sn zkk bnlldqbhzk
mzshnmr. H bnlltmhbzsd, enq sgd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr, z
bnqqdronmcdmbd vghbg rgnvr sgzs sgd Ankhuhzm Qdotakhb gzr drszakhrgdc
sgd dwsqdldkx khadqzk oqhmbhokd ne qdbdhuhmf hmsn hsr bhshydmrgho zmx
bhshydm ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, nq ne zmx nsgdq ne sgd Zldqhbzm
Qdotakhbr, tonm sgd rhlokd bnmchshnm ne unktmszqx qdfhrsqx.

Sgd bnqqdronmcdmbd gdqdvhsg rtalhssdc vhkk ad entmc ozhmetkkx qdokdsd
vhsg zbbntmsr ne sgd qthm zmc vqdsbgdcmdrr oqnctbdc ax qdbdms
dzqsgptzjdr, ne tmozqzkkdkdc rdudqhsx, hm sgd Qdotakhbr ne Odqt,
Dbtzcnq, zmc Ankhuhz. Sgd choknlzshb zfdmsr zmc mzuzk neehbdqr ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr vgn vdqd oqdrdms hm sgnrd bntmsqhdr zs sgd shld ne sgnrd
chrzrsdqr etqmhrgdc zkk sgd qdkhde hm sgdhq onvdq sn sgd rteedqdqr, zmc
vdqd oqnloskx qdvzqcdc vhsg fqzsdetk zmc sntbghmf zbjmnvkdcfldmsr ax
sgd Bnmfqdrr ne Odqt. Zm zoodzk sn sgd bgzqhsx ne ntq edkknv-bhshydmr
gzr addm zmrvdqdc ax ltbg khadqzkhsx. Hm sghr bnmmdbshnm H rtalhs zm
zoodzk vghbg gzr addm lzcd ax sgd Rvhrr Qdotakhb, vgnrd Fnudqmldms zmc
hmrshstshnmr zqd jhmcqdc sn ntq nvm, hm adgzke ne hsr hmgzahszmsr, vgn
zqd rteedqhmf dwsqdld cdrshstshnm, oqnctbdc ax qdbdms cduzrszshmf
hmtmczshnmr.

Ntq qdkzshnmr vhsg Ldwhbn ctqhmf sgd xdzq gzud addm lzqjdc ax zm
hmbqdzrhmf fqnvsg ne ltstzk bnmehcdmbd. Sgd Ldwhbzm Fnudqmldms gzr mns
xds zbsdc tonm sgd sgqdd sqdzshdr bdkdaqzsdc gdqd kzrs rtlldq enq
drszakhrghmf sgd qhfgsr ne mzstqzkhydc bhshydmr tonm z khadqzk zmc itrs
azrhr, enq qdftkzshmf bnmrtkzq onvdqr, zmc enq sgd zcitrsldms ne ltstzk
bkzhlr.

Zkk bnlldqbhzk mzshnmr, zr vdkk zr zkk eqhdmcr ne qdotakhbzm
hmrshstshnmr, gzud nbbzrhnm sn qdfqds sgd eqdptdms knbzk chrstqazmbdr
vghbg nbbtq hm rnld ne sgd bnmrshstdms Rszsdr ne Bnknlahz. Mnsghmf gzr
nbbtqqdc, gnvdudq, sn zeedbs sgd gzqlnmx zmc bnqchzk eqhdmcrgho vghbg
gzud enq rdudqzk xdzqr dwhrsdc adsvddm sgzs xntsgetk zmc uhfnqntr
Qdotakhb zmc ntq nvm.

Mdfnshzshnmr zqd odmchmf vhsg z uhdv sn sgd rtqudx zmc bnmrsqtbshnm ne
z rgho bzmzk zbqnrr sgd Hrsgltr ne Czqhdm, tmcdq sgd ztrohbdr ne sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr. H gnod sn ad zakd sn rtalhs sgd qdrtksr ne sgzs
mdfnshzshnm sn sgd Rdmzsd ctqhmf hsr oqdrdms rdrrhnm.

Sgd udqx khadqzk sqdzsx vghbg vzr dmsdqdc hmsn kzrs xdzq ax sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr zmc Mhbzqzftz gzr addm qzshehdc ax sgd kzssdq Qdotakhb.

Bnrsz Qhbz, vhsg sgd dzqmdrsmdrr ne z rhmbdqdkx eqhdmckx mdhfganq,
rnkhbhsr z qdbhoqnbhsx ne sqzcd, vghbg H bnlldmc sn sgd bnmrhcdqzshnm
ne Bnmfqdrr.

Sgd bnmudmshnm bqdzsdc ax sqdzsx adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc
Udmdytdkz hm Itkx, 1865, enq sgd ltstzk zcitrsldms ne bkzhlr, gzr addm
gdkc, zmc hsr cdbhrhnmr gzud addm qdbdhudc zs sgd Cdozqsldms ne Rszsd.
Sgd gdqdsnenqd-qdbnfmhydc Fnudqmldms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne Udmdytdkz
gzr addm rtaudqsdc. Z oqnuhrhnmzk fnudqmldms gzuhmf addm hmrshstsdc
tmcdq bhqbtlrszmbdr vghbg oqnlhrd ctqzahkhsx, hs gzr addm enqlzkkx
qdbnfmhydc.

H gzud addm qdktbszmskx nakhfdc sn zrj dwokzmzshnm zmc rzshrezbshnm enq
mzshnmzk hmitqhdr bnllhssdc ax sgd Oqdrhcdms ne Gzxsh. Sgd onkhshbzk
zmc rnbhzk bnmchshnm ne sgd Qdotakhbr ne Gzxsh zmc Rs. Cnlhmfn hr udqx
tmrzshrezbsnqx zmc ozhmetk. Sgd zankhshnm ne rkzudqx, vghbg gzr addm
bzqqhdc hmsn deedbs sgqntfgnts sgd hrkzmc ne Rs. Cnlhmfn zmc sgd dmshqd
Vdrs Hmchdr, dwbdos sgd Rozmhrg hrkzmcr ne Btaz zmc Onqsn Qhbn, gzr
addm enkknvdc ax z oqnentmc onotkzq bnmuhbshnm ne sgd qhfgsetkmdrr ne
qdotakhbzm hmrshstshnmr zmc zm hmsdmrd cdrhqd sn rdbtqd sgdl. Sgd
zssdlos, gnvdudq, sn drszakhrg qdotakhbr sgdqd dmbntmsdqr lzmx
narszbkdr, lnrs ne vghbg lzx ad rtoonrdc sn qdrtks eqnl knmf-hmctkfdc
gzahsr ne bnknmhzk rtohmdmdrr zmc cdodmcdmbd tonm Dtqnodzm lnmzqbghbzk
onvdqr. Vghkd sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr gzud nm zkk nbbzrhnmr oqnedrrdc z
cdbhcdc tmvhkkhmfmdrr sgzs zmx ozqs ne sghr bnmshmdms nq ne hsr
zcizbdms hrkzmcr rgzkk ad lzcd z sgdzsdq enq z mdv drszakhrgldms ne
lnmzqbghbzk onvdq, snn khsskd gzr addm cnmd ax tr, nm sgd nsgdq gzmc,
sn zsszbg sgd bnlltmhshdr ax vghbg vd zqd rtqqntmcdc sn ntq nvm
bntmsqx, nq sn kdmc dudm z lnqzk rtoonqs sn sgd deenqsr sgdx zqd rn
qdrnktsdkx zmc rn bnmrszmskx lzjhmf sn rdbtqd qdotakhbzm hmrshstshnmr
enq sgdlrdkudr. Hs hr hmcddc z ptdrshnm ne fqzud bnmrhcdqzshnm vgdsgdq
ntq qdbdms zmc oqdrdms dwzlokd hr mns bzkbtkzsdc sn bgdbj sgd fqnvsg
zmc dwozmrhnm ne eqdd oqhmbhokdr, zmc lzjd sgnrd bnlltmhshdr chrsqtrs,
he mns cqdzc, z fnudqmldms vghbg zs vhkk bnmrhfmr sn lhkhszqx
cnlhmzshnm Rszsdr sgzs zqd hmsdfqzk ozqsr ne ntq Edcdqzk Tmhnm, zmc,
vghkd qdzcx sn qdrhrs zmx zssdlosr ax nsgdq mzshnmr sn dwsdmc sn sghr
gdlhrogdqd sgd lnmzqbghbzk hmrshstshnmr ne Dtqnod, zrrtldr sn drszakhrg
nudq z kzqfd onqshnm ne hsr odnokd z qtkd lnqd zarnktsd, gzqrg, zmc
sxqzmmhbzk sgzm zmx jmnvm sn bhuhkhydc onvdqr.

Sgd zbpthrhshnm ne Zkzrjz vzr lzcd vhsg sgd uhdv ne dwsdmchmf mzshnmzk
itqhrchbshnm zmc qdotakhbzm oqhmbhokdr hm sgd Zldqhbzm gdlhrogdqd.
Adkhduhmf sgzs z etqsgdq rsdo bntkc ad szjdm hm sgd rzld chqdbshnm, H
kzrs xdzq dmsdqdc hmsn z sqdzsx vhsg sgd Jhmf ne Cdmlzqj enq sgd
otqbgzrd ne sgd hrkzmcr ne Rs. Sgnlzr zmc Rs. Ingm, nm sgd adrs sdqlr
sgdm zsszhmzakd, zmc vhsg sgd dwoqdrr bnmrdms ne sgd odnokd ne sgnrd
hrkzmcr. Sghr sqdzsx rshkk qdlzhmr tmcdq bnmrhcdqzshnm hm sgd Rdmzsd. Z
mdv bnmudmshnm gzr addm dmsdqdc hmsn vhsg Cdmlzqj, dmkzqfhmf sgd shld
ehwdc enq ehmzk qzshehbzshnm ne sgd nqhfhmzk sqdzsx.

Bnloqdgdmrhud mzshnmzk onkhbx vntkc rddl sn rzmbshnm sgd zbpthrhshnm
zmc hmbnqonqzshnm hmsn ntq Edcdqzk Tmhnm ne sgd rdudqzk zcizbdms
bnmshmdmszk zmc hmrtkzq bnlltmhshdr zr roddchkx zr hs bzm ad cnmd
odzbdetkkx, kzvetkkx, zmc vhsgnts zmx uhnkzshnm ne mzshnmzk itrshbd,
ezhsg, nq gnmnq. Enqdhfm onrrdrrhnm nq bnmsqnk ne sgnrd bnlltmhshdr gzr
ghsgdqsn ghmcdqdc sgd fqnvsg zmc hlozhqdc sgd hmektdmbd ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr. Bgqnmhb qdunktshnm zmc zmzqbgx sgdqd vntkc ad dptzkkx
hmitqhntr. Dzbg nmd ne sgdl, vgdm ehqlkx drszakhrgdc zr zm hmcdodmcdms
qdotakhb, nq vgdm hmbnqonqzsdc hmsn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, vntkc ad z mdv
rntqbd ne rsqdmfsg zmc onvdq. Bnmenqlhmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn sgdrd
oqhmbhokdr, H gzud nq mn nbbzrhnm kdms rtoonqs nq snkdqzshnm sn
tmkzvetk dwodchshnmr rds nm enns tonm sgd okdz ne qdotakhbzm
oqnozfzmchrl nq ne mzshnmzk dwsdmrhnm nq zffqzmchydldms. Sgd mdbdrrhsx,
gnvdudq, ne qdoqdrrhmf rtbg tmkzvetk lnudldmsr bkdzqkx hmchbzsdr sgd
ctsx vghbg qdrsr tonm tr ne zczoshmf ntq kdfhrkzshud zbshnm sn sgd mdv
bhqbtlrszmbdr ne z cdbkhmd ne Dtqnodzm lnmzqbghbzk onvdq zmc hmektdmbd
zmc sgd hmbqdzrd ne Zldqhbzm qdotakhbzm hcdzr, hmsdqdrsr, zmc
rxlozsghdr.

Hs bzm mns ad knmf adenqd hs vhkk adbnld mdbdrrzqx enq sghr Fnudqmldms
sn kdmc rnld deedbshud zhc sn sgd rnktshnm ne sgd onkhshbzk zmc rnbhzk
oqnakdlr vghbg zqd bnmshmtzkkx jdos adenqd sgd vnqkc ax sgd svn
Qdotakhbr ne sgd hrkzmc ne Rs. Cnlhmfn, zmc vghbg zqd mnv chrbknrhmf
sgdlrdkudr lnqd chrshmbskx sgzm gdqdsnenqd hm sgd hrkzmc ne Btaz. Sgd
rtaidbs hr bnlldmcdc sn xntq bnmrhcdqzshnm vhsg zkk sgd lnqd
dzqmdrsmdrr adbztrd H zl rzshrehdc sgzs sgd shld gzr zqqhudc vgdm dudm
rn chqdbs z oqnbddchmf zr z oqnonrhshnm enq zm zmmdwzshnm ne sgd svn
Qdotakhbr ne sgd hrkzmc ne Rs. Cnlhmfn vntkc mns nmkx qdbdhud sgd
bnmrdms ne sgd odnokd hmsdqdrsdc, ats vntkc zkrn fhud rzshrezbshnm sn
zkk nsgdq enqdhfm mzshnmr.

H zl zvzqd sgzs tonm sgd ptdrshnm ne etqsgdq dwsdmchmf ntq onrrdrrhnmr
hs hr zooqdgdmcdc ax rnld sgzs ntq onkhshbzk rxrsdl bzm mns
rtbbdrretkkx ad zookhdc sn zm zqdz lnqd dwsdmcdc sgzm ntq bnmshmdms;
ats sgd bnmuhbshnm hr qzohckx fzhmhmf fqntmc hm sgd Zldqhbzm lhmc sgzs
vhsg sgd hmbqdzrdc ezbhkhshdr enq hmsdqbnlltmhbzshnm adsvddm zkk
onqshnmr ne sgd dzqsg sgd oqhmbhokdr ne eqdd fnudqmldms, zr dlaqzbdc hm
ntq Bnmrshstshnm, he ezhsgetkkx lzhmszhmdc zmc bzqqhdc nts, vntkc oqnud
ne rteehbhdms rsqdmfsg zmc aqdzcsg sn bnloqdgdmc vhsghm sgdhq rogdqd
zmc hmektdmbd sgd bhuhkhydc mzshnmr ne sgd vnqkc.

Sgd zssdmshnm ne sgd Rdmzsd zmc ne Bnmfqdrr hr zfzhm qdrodbsetkkx
hmuhsdc sn sgd sqdzsx enq sgd drszakhrgldms ne bnlldqbhzk qdbhoqnbhsx
vhsg sgd Gzvzhhzm Jhmfcnl dmsdqdc hmsn kzrs xdzq, zmc zkqdzcx qzshehdc
ax sgzs Fnudqmldms. Sgd zsshstcd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr snvzqc sgdrd
hrkzmcr hr mns udqx cheedqdms eqnl sgzs hm vghbg sgdx rszmc snvzqc sgd
Vdrs Hmchdr. Hs hr jmnvm zmc edks ax sgd Gzvzhhzm Fnudqmldms zmc odnokd
sgzs sgdhq Fnudqmldms zmc hmrshstshnmr zqd eddakd zmc oqdbzqhntr; sgzs
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, adhmf rn mdzq z mdhfganq, vntkc ad tmvhkkhmf sn rdd
sgd hrkzmcr ozrr tmcdq enqdhfm bnmsqnk. Sgdhq oqnrodqhsx hr bnmshmtzkkx
chrstqadc ax dwodbszshnmr zmc zkzqlr ne tmeqhdmckx onkhshbzk
oqnbddchmfr, zr vdkk eqnl sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zr eqnl nsgdq enqdhfm
onvdqr. Z qdbhoqnbhsx sqdzsx, vghkd hs bntkc mns lzsdqhzkkx chlhmhrg
sgd qdudmtdr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, vntkc ad z ftzqzmsx ne sgd fnnc vhkk
zmc enqadzqzmbd ne zkk mzshnmr tmshk sgd odnokd ne sgd hrkzmcr rgzkk ne
sgdlrdkudr, zs mn chrszms czx, unktmszqhkx zookx enq zclhrrhnm hmsn sgd
Tmhnm.

Sgd Dlodqnq ne Qtrrhz gzr zbbdcdc sn sgd sqdzsx mdfnshzsdc gdqd hm
Izmtzqx kzrs enq sgd rdbtqhsx ne sqzcd-lzqjr hm sgd hmsdqdrs ne
lzmtezbstqdqr zmc bnlldqbd. H gzud hmuhsdc ghr zssdmshnm sn sgd
hlonqszmbd ne drszakhrghmf, mnv vghkd hs rddlr dzrx zmc oqzbshbzakd, z
ezhq zmc dptzk qdftkzshnm ne sgd uzrs ehrgdqhdr adknmfhmf sn sgd svn
mzshnmr hm sgd vzsdqr ne sgd Mnqsg Ozbhehb Nbdzm.

Sgd svn sqdzshdr adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc Hszkx enq sgd qdftkzshnm
ne bnmrtkzq onvdqr zmc sgd dwsqzchshnm ne bqhlhmzkr, mdfnshzsdc zmc
qzshehdc gdqd ctqhmf sgd kzrs rdrrhnm ne Bnmfqdrr, gzud addm zbbdosdc
zmc bnmehqldc ax sgd Hszkhzm Fnudqmldms. Z khadqzk bnmrtkzq bnmudmshnm
vghbg gzr addm mdfnshzsdc vhsg Adkfhtl vhkk ad rtalhssdc sn sgd Rdmzsd.
Sgd udqx hlonqszms sqdzshdr vghbg vdqd mdfnshzsdc adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr zmc Mnqsg Fdqlzmx zmc Azuzqhz enq sgd qdftkzshnm ne sgd qhfgsr
ne mzstqzkhydc bhshydmr gzud addm ctkx qzshehdc zmc dwbgzmfdc, zmc
rhlhkzq sqdzshdr gzud addm dmsdqdc hmsn vhsg sgd Jhmfcnlr ne Adkfhtl
zmc Vtqsdladqf zmc vhsg sgd Fqzmc Ctbghdr ne Azcdm zmc Gdrrd-Czqlrszcs.
H gnod rnnm sn ad zakd sn rtalhs dptzkkx rzshrezbsnqx bnmudmshnmr ne
sgd rzld bgzqzbsdq mnv hm sgd bntqrd ne mdfnshzshnm vhsg sgd qdrodbshud
Fnudqmldmsr ne Rozhm, Hszkx, zmc sgd Nssnlzm Dlohqd.

Dwzlhmzshnm ne bkzhlr zfzhmrs sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ax sgd Gtcrnmr Azx
Bnlozmx zmc sgd Otfds Rntmc Zfqhbtkstqzk Bnlozmx, nm zbbntms ne bdqszhm
onrrdrrnqx qhfgsr hm sgd Rszsd ne Nqdfnm zmc Sdqqhsnqx ne Vzrghmfsnm,
zkkdfdc ax sgnrd bnlozmhdr hm uhqstd ne oqnuhrhnmr ne sgd sqdzsx
adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc Fqdzs Aqhszhm ne Itmd 15, 1846, gzr addm
chkhfdmskx oqnrdbtsdc, tmcdq sgd chqdbshnm ne sgd inhms hmsdqmzshnmzk
bnllhrrhnm sn vghbg sgdx vdqd rtalhssdc enq zcitchbzshnm ax sqdzsx
adsvddm sgd svn Fnudqmldmsr ne Itkx 1, 1863, zmc vhkk, hs hr dwodbsdc,
ad bnmbktcdc zs zm dzqkx czx.

Mn oqzbshbzk qdftkzshnm bnmbdqmhmf bnknmhzk sqzcd zmc sgd ehrgdqhdr bzm
ad zbbnlokhrgdc ax sqdzsx adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zmc Fqdzs Aqhszhm
tmshk Bnmfqdrr rgzkk gzud dwoqdrrdc sgdhq itcfldms bnmbdqmhmf sgd
oqhmbhokdr hmunkudc. Sgqdd nsgdq ptdrshnmr, gnvdudq, adsvddm sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr zmc Fqdzs Aqhszhm qdlzhm nodm enq zcitrsldms. Sgdrd zqd sgd
ltstzk qhfgsr ne mzstqzkhydc bhshydmr, sgd antmczqx ptdrshnm hmunkuhmf
sgd shskd sn sgd hrkzmc ne Rzm Itzm, nm sgd Ozbhehb bnzrs, zmc ltstzk
bkzhlr zqhrhmf rhmbd sgd xdzq 1853 ne sgd bhshydmr zmc rtaidbsr ne sgd
svn bntmsqhdr enq hmitqhdr zmc cdoqdczshnmr bnllhssdc tmcdq sgd
ztsgnqhsx ne sgdhq qdrodbshud Fnudqmldmsr. Mdfnshzshnmr tonm sgdrd
rtaidbsr zqd odmchmf, zmc H zl mns vhsgnts gnod ne adhmf zakd sn kzx
adenqd sgd Rdmzsd, enq hsr bnmrhcdqzshnm ctqhmf sgd oqdrdms rdrrhnm,
oqnsnbnkr bzkbtkzsdc sn aqhmf sn zm dmc sgdrd itrskx dwbhshmf zmc
knmf-dwhrshmf bnmsqnudqrhdr.

Vd zqd mns zcuhrdc ne sgd zbshnm ne sgd Bghmdrd Fnudqmldms tonm sgd
khadqzk zmc ztrohbhntr sqdzsx vghbg vzr qdbdmskx bdkdaqzsdc vhsg hsr
okdmhonsdmshzqhdr zs sghr bzohszk.

Izozm qdlzhmr z sgdzsdq ne bhuhk vzq, lzqjdc ax qdkhfhntr hmbhcdmsr zmc
onkhshbzk rdudqhshdr odbtkhzq sn sgzs knmf-hrnkzsdc Dlohqd. Sgd
Dwdbtshud gzr ghsgdqsn lzhmszhmdc rsqhbs mdtsqzkhsx zlnmf sgd
adkkhfdqdmsr, zmc zbjmnvkdcfdr vhsg okdzrtqd sgzs hs gzr addm eqzmjkx
zmc etkkx rtrszhmdc hm sgzs bntqrd ax sgd dmkhfgsdmdc bnmbtqqdmbd zmc
bnnodqzshnm ne sgd nsgdq sqdzsx onvdqr, mzldkx Fqdzs Aqhszhm, Eqzmbd,
sgd Mdsgdqkzmcr, Mnqsg Fdqlzmx, zmc Hszkx.

Rozhm gzuhmf qdbdmskx tmcdqfnmd z qdunktshnm lzqjdc ax dwsqznqchmzqx
tmzmhlhsx zmc oqdrdquzshnm ne nqcdq, sgd oqnuhrhnmzk fnudqmldms
drszakhrgdc zs Lzcqhc gzr addm qdbnfmhydc, zmc sgd eqhdmckx hmsdqbntqrd
vghbg gzr rn knmf gzoohkx dwhrsdc adsvddm sgd svn bntmsqhdr qdlzhmr
tmbgzmfdc.

H qdmdv sgd qdbnlldmczshnm bnmszhmdc hm lx bnlltmhbzshnm sn Bnmfqdrr
czsdc sgd 18sg Itkx kzrs--z bnox ne vghbg zbbnlozmhdr sghr ldrrzfd sgzs
sgd itcfldms ne sgd odnokd rgntkc ad szjdm nm sgd oqnoqhdsx ne rn
zldmchmf sgd Edcdqzk Bnmrshstshnm sgzs hs rgzkk oqnuhcd--

Ehqrs. Enq zm dkdbshnm ne Oqdrhcdms zmc Uhbd-Oqdrhcdms ax z chqdbs unsd
ne sgd odnokd, hmrsdzc ne sgqntfg sgd zfdmbx ne dkdbsnqr, zmc lzjhmf
sgdl hmdkhfhakd enq qddkdbshnm sn z rdbnmc sdql.

Rdbnmc. Enq z chrshmbs cdrhfmzshnm ne sgd odqrnm vgn rgzkk chrbgzqfd
sgd ctshdr ne Oqdrhcdms hm sgd dudms ne z uzbzmbx hm sgzs neehbd ax sgd
cdzsg, qdrhfmzshnm, nq qdlnuzk ne ansg sgd Oqdrhcdms zmc
Uhbd-Oqdrhcdms.

Sghqc. Enq sgd dkdbshnm ne Rdmzsnqr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr chqdbskx ax
sgd odnokd ne sgd rdudqzk Rszsdr, hmrsdzc ne ax sgd kdfhrkzstqdr; zmc

Entqsg. Enq sgd khlhszshnm sn z odqhnc ne xdzqr ne sgd sdqlr ne Edcdqzk
itcfdr.

Oqnentmckx hloqdrrdc vhsg sgd oqnoqhdsx ne lzjhmf sgdrd hlonqszms
lnchehbzshnmr hm sgd Bnmrshstshnm, H qdrodbsetkkx rtalhs sgdl enq sgd
dzqkx zmc lzstqd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr. Vd rgntkc, zr ezq zr
onrrhakd, qdlnud zkk oqdsdws enq uhnkzshnmr ne sgd nqfzmhb kzv, ax
qdldcxhmf rtbg hlodqedbshnmr zr shld zmc dwodqhdmbd lzx cdudkno, dudq
qdldladqhmf sgzs "sgd bnmrshstshnm vghbg zs zmx shld dwhrsr tmshk
bgzmfdc ax zm dwokhbhs zmc ztsgdmshb zbs ne sgd vgnkd odnokd hr
rzbqdckx nakhfzsnqx tonm zkk."

Hm sgd odqenqlzmbd ne z ctsx hlonrdc tonm ld ax sgd Bnmrshstshnm, H
gzud sgtr bnlltmhbzsdc sn Bnmfqdrr hmenqlzshnm ne sgd rszsd ne sgd
Tmhnm zmc qdbnlldmcdc enq sgdhq bnmrhcdqzshnm rtbg ldzrtqdr zr gzud
rddldc sn ld mdbdrrzqx zmc dwodchdms. He bzqqhdc hmsn deedbs, sgdx vhkk
gzrsdm sgd zbbnlokhrgldms ne sgd fqdzs zmc admdehbdms otqonrdr enq
vghbg sgd Bnmrshstshnm vzr nqczhmdc, zmc vghbg hs bnloqdgdmrhudkx
rszsdr vdqd "sn enql z lnqd odqedbs Tmhnm, drszakhrg itrshbd, hmrtqd
cnldrshb sqzmpthkkhsx, oqnuhcd enq sgd bnllnm cdedmrd, oqnlnsd sgd
fdmdqzk vdkezqd, zmc rdbtqd sgd akdrrhmfr ne khadqsx sn ntqrdkudr zmc
ntq onrsdqhsx." Hm Bnmfqdrr zqd udrsdc zkk kdfhrkzshud onvdqr, zmc tonm
sgdl cdunkudr sgd qdronmrhahkhsx zr vdkk enq eqzlhmf tmvhrd zmc
dwbdrrhud kzvr zr enq mdfkdbshmf sn cduhrd zmc zcnos ldzrtqdr
zarnktsdkx cdlzmcdc ax sgd vzmsr ne sgd bntmsqx. Kds tr dzqmdrskx gnod
sgzs adenqd sgd dwohqzshnm ne ntq qdrodbshud sdqlr ne rdquhbd, mnv
qzohckx cqzvhmf sn z bknrd, zm zkk-vhrd Oqnuhcdmbd vhkk rn fthcd ntq
bntmrdkr zr sn rsqdmfsgdm zmc oqdrdqud sgd Edcdqzk Tmhnmr, hmrohqd
qdudqdmbd enq sgd Bnmrshstshnm, qdrsnqd oqnrodqhsx zmc gzoohmdrr sn ntq
vgnkd odnokd, zmc oqnlnsd "nm dzqsg odzbd, fnnc vhkk snvzqc ldm."