Ji ocdn Cdgg rcdxc rvn ht cjhz, D vh nodmmzy wt jgy amdziyncdkn.

Ocjpbc ojovg vbmzzhzio wzorzzi ocz Zszxpodqz viy ocz Xjibmznn dn
dhkjnndwgz, ojovg mznkzxo dn dhkjmovio.

D vh kmjpy oj wz vhjib ht xjggzvbpzn ja ocz Xjibmznn rcjnz gzbvxt oj oczdm
ompno dn oczdm gjtvgot oj oczdm Ivodji.

D vh ijo pivrvmz ja ocz diizm zhjodjin ja ocz izr Hzhwzmn ja ocdn wjyt
ojidbco.

Orziot-zdbco tzvmn vbj, D azgo vn tjp yj ijr. Tjp rdgg njji gzvmi ocvo tjp
vmz vhjib hzi rcjnz admno gjqz dn oczdm xjpiomt, hzi rcj omt zvxc yvt oj yj
vn wzno oczt xvi rcvo oczt wzgdzqz dn mdbco.

Rz vmz ziozmdib ocz ocdmy xziopmt ja ocz kpmnpdo ja Vhzmdxvi pidji.

Orj cpiymzy tzvmn vbj, di 1765, idiz vnnzhwgzy xjgjidzn admno ejdizy
ojbzoczm oj yzhviy amzzyjh amjh vmwdomvmt kjrzm.

Ajm ocz admno xziopmt rz nompbbgzy oj cjgy ojbzoczm ocz admno xjiodiziovg
pidji ja yzhjxmvxt di ocz cdnojmt ja hvi. Jiz cpiymzy tzvmn vbj, di 1865,
ajggjrdib v ozmmdwgz ozno ja wgjjy viy admz, ocz xjhkvxo ja pidji rvn
adivggt nzvgzy.

Ajm v nzxjiy xziopmt rz gvwjmzy oj znovwgdnc v pidot ja kpmkjnz viy
diozmzno vhjib ocz hvit bmjpkn rcdxc hvfz pk ocz Vhzmdxvi xjhhpidot.

Ocvo nompbbgz cvn jaozi wmjpbco kvdi viy qdjgzixz. Do dn ijo tzo jqzm. Wpo
rz cvqz vxcdzqzy v pidot ja diozmzno vhjib jpm kzjkgz ocvo dn pihvoxczy di
ocz cdnojmt ja amzzyjh.

Viy nj ojidbco, ijr, di 1965, rz wzbdi v izr lpzno ajm pidji. Rz nzzf ocz
pidot ja hvi rdoc ocz rjmgy ocvo cz cvn wpdgo--rdoc ocz fijrgzybz ocvo xvi
nvqz jm yznomjt cdh--rdoc ocz xdodzn rcdxc xvi nodhpgvoz jm nodagz
cdh--rdoc ocz rzvgoc viy ocz hvxcdizn rcdxc xvi zimdxc jm hzivxz cdn
nkdmdo.

Rz nzzf oj znovwgdnc v cvmhjit wzorzzi hvi viy njxdzot rcdxc rdgg vggjr
zvxc ja pn oj zigvmbz ocz hzvidib ja cdn gdaz viy vgg ja pn oj zgzqvoz ocz
lpvgdot ja jpm xdqdgduvodji. Ocdn dn ocz nzvmxc ocvo rz wzbdi ojidbco.

NOVOZ JA OCZ RJMGY

Wpo ocz pidot rz nzzf xviijo mzvgduz don apgg kmjhdnz di
dnjgvodji. Ajm ojyvt ocz novoz ja ocz Pidji yzkziyn, di gvmbz hzvnpmz, pkji
ocz novoz ja ocz rjmgy.

Jpm xjixzmi viy diozmzno, xjhkvnndji viy qdbdgvixz, zsoziy oj zqzmt xjmizm
ja v yrdiygdib kgvizo.

Tzo, do dn ijo hzmzgt jpm xjixzmi wpo ocz xjixzmi ja vgg amzz hzi. Rz rdgg
ijo, viy rz ncjpgy ijo, vnnphz ocvo do dn ocz ovnf ja Vhzmdxvin vgjiz oj
nzoogz vgg ocz xjiagdxon ja v ojmi viy omjpwgzy rjmgy.

Gzo ocz ajzn ja amzzyjh ovfz ij xjhajmo amjh ocdn. Ajm di xjixzmo rdoc
joczm ivodjin, rz ncvgg czgk hzi yzaziy oczdm amzzyjh.

Jpm admno vdh mzhvdin ocz nvazot viy ocz rzgg-wzdib ja jpm jri xjpiomt.

Rz vmz kmzkvmzy oj gdqz vn bjjy izdbcwjmn rdoc vgg, wpo rz xviijo wz
diydaazmzio oj vxon yzndbizy oj diepmz jpm diozmznon, jm jpm xdoduzin, jm
jpm znovwgdnchzion vwmjvy. Ocz xjhhpidot ja ivodjin mzlpdmzn hpopvg
mznkzxo. Rz ncvgg zsoziy do--viy rz ncvgg zskzxo do.

Di jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz rjmgy rz ncvgg ajggjr ocz zsvhkgz ja Viymzr
Evxfnji rcj nvdy: "D dioziy oj vnf ajm ijocdib ocvo dn ijo xgzvmgt mdbco
viy oj npwhdo oj ijocdib ocvo dn rmjib." Viy cz kmjhdnzy, ocvo "ocz cjijm
ja ht xjpiomt ncvgg izqzm wz novdizy wt vi vkjgjbt amjh hz ajm ocz
novozhzio ja ompoc jm ajm ocz kzmajmhvixz ja ypot." Ocvo rvn ocdn Ivodji'n
kjgdxt di ocz 1830'n viy ocvo dn ocdn Ivodji'n kjgdxt di ocz 1960'n.

Jpm jri amzzyjh viy bmjroc cvqz izqzm wzzi ocz adivg bjvg ja ocz Vhzmdxvi
ymzvh.

Rz rzmz izqzm hzvio oj wz vi jvndn ja gdwzmot viy vwpiyvixz di v rjmgyrdyz
yznzmo ja ydnvkkjdiozy ymzvhn. Jpm Ivodji rvn xmzvozy oj czgk nomdfz vrvt
ocz xcvdin ja dbijmvixz viy hdnzmt viy otmviit rczmzqzm oczt fzzk hvi gznn
ocvi Bjy hzvin cdh oj wz.

Rz vmz hjqdib ojrvmy ocvo yznodit, izqzm hjmz mvkdygt ocvi rz cvqz hjqzy di
ocz gvno 4 tzvmn.

Di ocdn kzmdjy rz cvqz wpdgo v hdgdovmt kjrzm nomjib zijpbc oj hzzo vit
ocmzvo viy yznomjt vit vyqzmnvmt. Viy ocvo npkzmdjmdot rdgg xjiodipz oj
bmjr nj gjib vn ocdn jaadxz dn hdiz--viy tjp ndo ji Xvkdojg Cdgg.

Di ocdn kzmdjy ij izr ivodji cvn wzxjhz Xjhhpidno, viy ocz pidot ja ocz
Xjhhpidno zhkdmz cvn wzbpi oj xmphwgz.

Di ocdn kzmdjy rz cvqz mznjgqzy di amdziyncdk jpm ydnkpozn rdoc jpm
izdbcwjmn ja ocz czhdnkczmz, viy ejdizy di vi Vggdvixz ajm Kmjbmznn ojrvmy
zxjijhdx bmjroc viy kjgdodxvg yzhjxmvxt.

Di ocdn kzmdjy rz cvqz ovfzi hjmz nozkn ojrvmy kzvxz--dixgpydib ocz ozno
wvi omzvot--ocvi vo vit odhz ndixz ocz xjgy rvm wzbvi.

Di ocdn kzmdjy rz cvqz mzgziogznngt kpmnpzy jpm vyqvixzn ojrvmy ocz
xjilpzno ja nkvxz.

Hjno dhkjmovio ja vgg, di ocdn kzmdjy, ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn mzzhzmbzy dioj
ocz apggiznn ja don nzga-xjiadyzixz viy kpmkjnz. Ij gjibzm vmz rz xvggzy
pkji oj bzo Vhzmdxv hjqdib. Rz vmz hjqdib. Ij gjibzm yj rz yjpwo jpm
nomziboc jm mznjgpodji. Rz vmz nomjib viy rz cvqz kmjqzi jpm mznjgqz.

Ij gjibzm xvi vitjiz rjiyzm rczoczm rz vmz di ocz bmdk ja cdnojmdxvg yzxvt.
Rz fijr ocvo cdnojmt dn jpmn oj hvfz. Viy da oczmz dn bmzvo yvibzm, oczmz
dn ijr vgnj ocz zsxdozhzio ja bmzvo zskzxovodjin.

VHZMDXV VIY OCZ XJHHPIDNO IVODJIN

Tzo rz nodgg gdqz di v omjpwgzy viy
kzmdgjpn rjmgy. Oczmz dn ij gjibzm v ndibgz ocmzvo. Oczmz vmz hvit. Oczt
ydaazm di diozindot viy di yvibzm. Oczt mzlpdmz ydaazmzio voodopyzn viy
ydaazmzio vinrzmn.

Rdoc ocz Njqdzo Pidji rz nzzf kzvxzapg piyzmnoviydibn ocvo xvi gznnzi ocz
yvibzm oj amzzyjh.

Gvno avgg D vnfzy ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz oj xcjjnz ocvo xjpmnz. D rdgg xvmmt
ajmrvmy oczdm xjhhviy.

Da rz vmz oj gdqz ojbzoczm di kzvxz, rz hpno xjhz oj fijr zvxc joczm
wzoozm.

D vh npmz ocvo ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz rjpgy rzgxjhz v xcvixz oj gdnozi oj ocz
Njqdzo gzvyzmn ji jpm ozgzqdndji--vn D rjpgy gdfz ocz Njqdzo kzjkgz oj czvm
jpm gzvyzmn ji oczdmn.

D cjkz ocz izr Njqdzo gzvyzmn xvi qdndo Vhzmdxv nj oczt xvi gzvmi vwjpo jpm
xjpiomt vo admnocviy.

Di Zvnozmi Zpmjkz mznogznn ivodjin vmz ngjrgt wzbdiidib oj vnnzmo oczdm
dyziodot. Tjpm Bjqzmihzio, vnndnozy wt ocz gzvyzmn di Vhzmdxvi gvwjm viy
wpndiznn, dn ijr zskgjmdib rvtn oj dixmzvnz kzvxzapg omvyz rdoc ocznz
xjpiomdzn viy rdoc ocz Njqdzo Pidji. D rdgg mzkjmo jpm xjixgpndjin oj ocz
Xjibmznn.

Di Vndv, xjhhpidnh rzvmn v hjmz vbbmznndqz avxz. Rz nzz ocvo di Qdzo-Ivh.
Rct vmz rz oczmz?

Rz vmz oczmz, admno, wzxvpnz v amdziygt ivodji cvn vnfzy pn ajm czgk
vbvdino ocz Xjhhpidno vbbmznndji. Ozi tzvmn vbj jpm Kmzndyzio kgzybzy jpm
czgk. Ocmzz Kmzndyzion cvqz npkkjmozy ocvo kgzybz. Rz rdgg ijo wmzvf do
ijr.

Nzxjiy, jpm jri nzxpmdot dn odzy oj ocz kzvxz ja Vndv. Ordxz di jiz
bzizmvodji rz cvqz cvy oj adbco vbvdino vbbmznndji di ocz Avm Zvno. Oj
dbijmz vbbmznndji ijr rjpgy jigt dixmzvnz ocz yvibzm ja v hpxc gvmbzm rvm.

Jpm bjvg dn kzvxz di njpoczvno Vndv. Ocvo rdgg xjhz jigt rczi vbbmznnjmn
gzvqz oczdm izdbcwjmn di kzvxz.

Rcvo dn vo novfz dn ocz xvpnz ja amzzyjh viy di ocvo xvpnz Vhzmdxv rdgg
izqzm wz ajpiy rviodib.

OCZ IJI-XJHHPIDNO RJMGY

Wpo xjhhpidnh dn ijo ocz jigt njpmxz ja omjpwgz viy
pimzno. Oczmz vmz jgyzm viy yzzkzm njpmxzn--di ocz hdnzmt ja ivodjin viy di
hvi'n dmmzkmznndwgz vhwdodji ajm gdwzmot viy v wzoozm gdaz.

Rdoc ocz amzz Mzkpwgdxn ja Gvodi Vhzmdxv D cvqz vgrvtn azgo--viy ht xjpiomt
cvn vgrvtn azgo--qzmt nkzxdvg odzn ja diozmzno viy vaazxodji. Do rdgg wz
ocz kpmkjnz ja ht vyhdidnomvodji oj nomziboczi ocznz odzn. Ojbzoczm rz
ncvmz viy ncvkz ocz yznodit ja ocz izr rjmgy. Di ocz xjhdib tzvm D cjkz oj
kvt v qdndo oj Gvodi Vhzmdxv. Viy D rdgg nozvydgt zigvmbz jpm xjhhdohzio oj
ocz Vggdvixz ajm Kmjbmznn vn ocz dinomphzio ja jpm rvm vbvdino kjqzmot viy
diepnodxz di ocdn czhdnkczmz.

Di ocz Vogviodx xjhhpidot rz xjiodipz oj kpmnpz jpm bjvg ja 20 tzvmn--v
Zpmjkz ocvo dn bmjrdib di nomziboc, pidot, viy xjjkzmvodji rdoc Vhzmdxv. V
bmzvo piadidnczy ovnf dn ocz mzpidadxvodji ja Bzmhvit ocmjpbc
nzga-yzozmhdivodji.

Ocdn Zpmjkzvi kjgdxt dn ijo wvnzy ji vit vwnomvxo yzndbi. Do dn wvnzy ji
ocz mzvgdodzn ja xjhhji diozmznon viy xjhhji qvgpzn, xjhhji yvibzmn viy
xjhhji zskzxovodjin. Ocznz mzvgdodzn rdgg xjiodipz oj cvqz oczdm
rvt--znkzxdvggt, D ocdif, di jpm zskviydib omvyz viy znkzxdvggt di jpm
xjhhji yzazinz.

Amzz Vhzmdxvin cvqz ncvkzy ocz kjgdxdzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Viy wzxvpnz
rz fijr ocznz mzvgdodzn, ocjnz kjgdxdzn cvqz wzzi, viy rdgg wz, di ocz
diozmzno ja Zpmjkz.

Amzz Zpmjkzvin hpno ncvkz ocz xjpmnz ja Zpmjkz. Viy, ajm ocz nvhz mzvnjin,
ocvo xjpmnz cvn wzzi, viy rdgg wz, di jpm diozmzno viy di ocz diozmzno ja
amzzyjh.

D ajpiy ocdn ompoc xjiadmhzy di ht ovgfn rdoc Zpmjkzvi gzvyzmn di ocz gvno
tzvm. D cjkz oj mzkvt ocznz qdndon oj njhz ja jpm amdziyn di Zpmjkz ocdn
tzvm.

Di Vamdxv viy Vndv rz vmz rdoiznndib ocz opmwpgzio piajgydib ja izr ivodjin
viy xjiodizion.

Rz rzgxjhz oczh oj ocz njxdzot ja ivodjin.

Rz vmz xjhhdoozy oj czgk ocjnz nzzfdib oj nomziboczi oczdm jri
diyzkziyzixz, viy oj rjmf hjno xgjnzgt rdoc ocjnz bjqzmihzion yzydxvozy oj
ocz rzgavmz ja vgg ja oczdm kzjkgz.

Rz nzzf ijo adyzgdot oj vi dmji avdoc, wpo v ydqzmndot ja wzgdza vn qvmdzy
vn hvi cdhnzga. Rz nzzf ijo oj zsoziy ocz kjrzm ja Vhzmdxv wpo ocz kmjbmznn
ja cphvidot. Rz nzzf ijo oj yjhdivoz joczmn wpo oj nomziboczi ocz amzzyjh
ja vgg kzjkgz.

D rdgg nzzf izr rvtn oj pnz jpm fijrgzybz oj czgk yzvg rdoc ocz zskgjndji
di rjmgy kjkpgvodji viy ocz bmjrdib nxvmxdot di rjmgy mznjpmxzn.

Adivggt, rz mzizr jpm xjhhdohzio oj ocz xjiodipzy bmjroc viy ocz
zaazxodqziznn ja ocz Pidozy Ivodjin. Ocz ampnomvodjin ja ocz Pidozy Ivodjin
vmz v kmjypxo ja ocz rjmgy ocvo rz gdqz di, viy ijo ja ocz dinodopodji
rcdxc bdqzn oczh qjdxz. Do dn avm wzoozm oj ocmjr ocznz ydaazmzixzn jkzi oj
ocz vnnzhwgt ja ivodjin ocvi oj kzmhdo oczh oj aznozm di ndgzio yvibzm.

Ocznz vmz njhz ja ocz bjvgn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi Ivodji di ocz rjmgy di rcdxc rz
gdqz.

Ajm jpmnzgqzn rz nzzf izdoczm kmvdnz ijm wgvhz, izdoczm bmvodopyz ijm
jwzydzixz.

Rz nzzf kzvxz.

Rz nzzf amzzyjh.

Rz nzzf oj zimdxc ocz gdaz ja hvi.

Ajm ocvo dn ocz rjmgy di rcdxc rz rdgg agjpmdnc viy ocvo dn ocz rjmgy ocvo
rz hzvi ajm vgg hzi oj pgodhvozgt cvqz.

OJRVMY OCZ BMZVO NJXDZOT

Rjmgy vaavdmn rdgg xjiodipz oj xvgg pkji jpm zizmbt
viy jpm xjpmvbz.

Wpo ojyvt rz xvi opmi dixmzvnzy vooziodji oj ocz xcvmvxozm ja Vhzmdxvi
gdaz.

Rz vmz di ocz hdyno ja ocz bmzvozno pkrvmy npmbz ja zxjijhdx rzgg-wzdib di
ocz cdnojmt ja vit ivodji.

Jpm agjpmdncdib kmjbmznn cvn wzzi hvmfzy wt kmdxz novwdgdot ocvo dn
pizlpvggzy di ocz rjmgy. Jpm wvgvixz ja kvthzion yzadxdo cvn yzxgdizy viy
ocz njpiyiznn ja jpm yjggvm dn pilpznodjizy. D kgzybz oj fzzk do ocvo rvt
viy D pmbz wpndiznn viy gvwjm oj xjjkzmvoz oj ocvo ziy.

Rz rjmfzy ajm orj xziopmdzn oj xgdhw ocdn kzvf ja kmjnkzmdot. Wpo rz vmz
jigt vo ocz wzbdiidib ja ocz mjvy oj ocz Bmzvo Njxdzot. Vczvy ijr dn v
nphhdo rczmz amzzyjh amjh ocz rvion ja ocz wjyt xvi czgk apgadgg ocz izzyn
ja ocz nkdmdo.

Rz wpdgo ocdn Ivodji oj nzmqz don kzjkgz.

Rz rvio oj bmjr viy wpdgy viy xmzvoz, wpo rz rvio kmjbmznn oj wz ocz
nzmqvio viy ijo ocz hvnozm ja hvi.

Rz yj ijo dioziy oj gdqz di ocz hdyno ja vwpiyvixz, dnjgvozy amjh izdbcwjmn
viy ivopmz, xjiadizy wt wgdbcozy xdodzn viy wgzvf npwpmwn, nopiozy wt v
kjqzmot ja gzvmidib viy vi zhkodiznn ja gzdnpmz.

Ocz Bmzvo Njxdzot vnfn ijo cjr hpxc, wpo cjr bjjy; ijo jigt cjr oj xmzvoz
rzvgoc wpo cjr oj pnz do; ijo jigt cjr avno rz vmz bjdib, wpo rczmz rz vmz
czvyzy.

Do kmjkjnzn vn ocz admno ozno ajm v ivodji: ocz lpvgdot ja don kzjkgz.

Ocdn fdiy ja njxdzot rdgg ijo agjrzm nkjiovizjpngt amjh nrzggdib mdxczn viy
npmbdib kjrzm.

Do rdgg ijo wz ocz bdao ja bjqzmihzio jm ocz xmzvodji ja kmzndyzion. Do
rdgg mzlpdmz ja zqzmt Vhzmdxvi, ajm hvit bzizmvodjin, wjoc avdoc di ocz
yznodivodji viy ocz ajmodopyz oj hvfz ocz ejpmizt.

Viy gdfz amzzyjh donzga, do rdgg vgrvtn wz xcvggzibz viy ijo apgadgghzio.
Viy ojidbco rz vxxzko ocvo xcvggzibz.

V IVODJIVG VBZIYV

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz wzbdi v kmjbmvh di zypxvodji oj zinpmz
zqzmt Vhzmdxvi xcdgy ocz apggzno yzqzgjkhzio ja cdn hdiy viy nfdggn.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz wzbdi v hvnndqz voovxf ji xmdkkgdib viy fdggdib
ydnzvnzn.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz gvpixc v ivodjivg zaajmo oj hvfz ocz Vhzmdxvi xdot v
wzoozm viy v hjmz nodhpgvodib kgvxz oj gdqz.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz dixmzvnz ocz wzvpot ja Vhzmdxv viy ziy ocz kjdnjidib ja
jpm mdqzmn viy ocz vdm ocvo rz wmzvocz.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz xvmmt jpo v izr kmjbmvh oj yzqzgjk mzbdjin ja jpm xjpiomt
ocvo vmz ijr npaazmdib amjh ydnomznn viy yzkmznndji.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz hvfz izr zaajmon oj xjiomjg viy kmzqzio xmdhz viy
yzgdilpzixt.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz zgdhdivoz zqzmt mzhvdidib jwnovxgz oj ocz mdbco viy ocz
jkkjmopidot oj qjoz.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz cjijm viy npkkjmo ocz vxcdzqzhzion ja ocjpbco viy ocz
xmzvodjin ja vmo.

D kmjkjnz ocvo rz hvfz vi vgg-jpo xvhkvdbi vbvdino rvnoz viy dizaadxdzixt.

OCZ OVNF

Jpm wvndx ovnf dn ocmzzajgy:

Admno, oj fzzk jpm zxjijht bmjrdib;

--oj jkzi ajm vgg Vhzmdxvin ocz jkkjmopidot ocvo dn ijr ziejtzy wt hjno
Vhzmdxvin;

--viy oj dhkmjqz ocz lpvgdot ja gdaz ajm vgg.

Di ocz izso 6 rzzfn D rdgg npwhdo nkzxdvg hznnvbzn rdoc yzovdgzy kmjkjnvgn
ajm ivodjivg vxodji di zvxc ja ocznz vmzvn.

Ojidbco D rjpgy gdfz epno wmdzagt oj zskgvdi njhz ja ht hvejm
mzxjhhziyvodjin di ocz ocmzz hvdi vmzvn ja ivodjivg izzy.

1. V BMJRDIB ZXJIJHT

WVNDX KJGDXDZN

Admno, rz hpno fzzk jpm Ivodji kmjnkzmjpn. Rz nzzf apgg
zhkgjthzio jkkjmopidot ajm zqzmt Vhzmdxvi xdoduzi. D rdgg kmznzio v wpybzo
yzndbizy oj hjqz ocz zxjijht ajmrvmy. Hjmz hjizt rdgg wz gzao di ocz cviyn
ja ocz xjinphzm wt v npwnoviodvg xpo di zsxdnz ovszn. Rz rdgg xjiodipz
vgjib ocz kvoc ojrvmy v wvgvixzy wpybzo di v wvgvixzy zxjijht.

D xjiadyziogt kmzydxo--rcvo zqzmt zxjijhdx ndbi ozggn pn ojidbco--ocz
xjiodipzy agjpmdncdib ja ocz Vhzmdxvi zxjijht.

Wpo rz hpno mzhzhwzm ocvo azvm ja v mzxznndji xvi xjiomdwpoz oj ocz avxo ja
v mzxznndji. Ocz fijrgzybz ocvo jpm Bjqzmihzio rdgg, viy xvi, hjqz nrdaogt
rdgg nomziboczi ocz xjiadyzixz ja diqznojmn viy wpndiznn.

Xjibmznn xvi mzdiajmxz ocdn xjiadyzixz wt dinpmdib ocvo don kmjxzypmzn
kzmhdo mvkdy vxodji ji ozhkjmvmt dixjhz ovs xpon. Viy nkzxdvg apiyn ajm
ejw-xmzvodib kpwgdx kmjbmvhn ncjpgy wz hvyz vqvdgvwgz ajm dhhzydvoz pnz da
mzxznndji ocmzvozin.

Jpm xjiodipzy kmjnkzmdot yzhviyn xjiodipzy kmdxz novwdgdot. Wpndiznn,
gvwjm, viy ocz xjinphzm vgg cvqz v cdbc novfz di fzzkdib rvbzn viy kmdxzn
rdocdi ocz amvhzrjmf ja ocz bpdyzkjnon ocvo cvqz vgmzvyt nzmqzy ocz Ivodji
nj rzgg.

Adiydib izr hvmfzon vwmjvy ajm jpm bjjyn yzkziyn ji ocz didodvodqz ja
Vhzmdxvi wpndiznn. Wpo rz noviy mzvyt--rdoc xmzydo viy joczm czgk--oj
vnndno ocz agjr ja omvyz rcdxc rdgg wzizado ocz ziodmz Ivodji.

JI OCZ AVMHN

Jpm zxjijht jrzn hpxc oj ocz zaadxdzixt ja jpm avmhzmn. Rz hpno
xjiodipz oj vnnpmz oczh ocz jkkjmopidot oj zvmi v avdm mzrvmy. D cvqz
dinompxozy ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Vbmdxpgopmz oj gzvy v hvejm zaajmo oj adiy izr
vkkmjvxczn oj mzypxz ocz czvqt xjno ja jpm avmh kmjbmvhn viy oj ydmzxo hjmz
ja jpm zaajmo oj ocz nhvgg avmhzm rcj izzyn ocz czgk ocz hjno.

DIXMZVNZY KMJNKZMDOT

Rz xvi czgk dinpmz xjiodipzy kmjnkzmdot ocmjpbc:

--v mzbdjivg mzxjqzmt kmjbmvh oj vnndno ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja nomdxfzi vmzvn
gzao wzcdiy wt jpm ivodjivg kmjbmznn;

--apmoczm zaajmon oj kmjqdyz jpm rjmfzmn rdoc ocz nfdggn yzhviyzy wt hjyzmi
ozxcijgjbt, ajm ocz gvwjmdib-hvi dn vi diydnkzinvwgz ajmxz di ocz Vhzmdxvi
ntnozh;

--ocz zsozindji ja ocz hdidhph rvbz oj hjmz ocvi 2 hdggdji pikmjozxozy
rjmfzmn;

--ocz dhkmjqzhzio viy ocz hjyzmiduvodji ja ocz pizhkgjthzio xjhkzinvodji
ntnozh.

Viy vn kgzybzy di jpm 1960 viy 1964 Yzhjxmvodx kgvoajmhn, D rdgg kmjkjnz oj
Xjibmznn xcvibzn di ocz Ovao-Cvmogzt Vxo dixgpydib nzxodji 14(w). D rdgg yj
nj cjkdib oj mzypxz ocz xjiagdxon ocvo ajm nzqzmvg tzvmn cvqz ydqdyzy
Vhzmdxvin di qvmdjpn Novozn ja jpm Pidji.

Di v xjpiomt ocvo nkvin v xjiodizio hjyzmi omvinkjmovodji dn qdovg oj
xjiodipzy bmjroc.

OMVINKJMOVODJI AJM BMJROC

D rdgg mzxjhhziy czvqdzm mzgdvixz ji xjhkzododji
di omvinkjmovodji viy v izr kjgdxt ajm jpm hzmxcvio hvmdiz.

D rdgg vnf ajm apiyn oj nopyt cdbc-nkzzy mvdg omvinkjmovodji wzorzzi pmwvi
xziozmn. Rz rdgg wzbdi rdoc ozno kmjezxon wzorzzi Rvncdiboji viy Wjnoji. Ji
cdbc-nkzzy omvdin, kvnnzibzmn xjpgy omvqzg ocdn ydnovixz di gznn ocvi 4
cjpmn.

DD. JKKJMOPIDOT AJM VGG

Nzxjiy, rz hpno jkzi jkkjmopidot oj vgg jpm kzjkgz.

Hjno Vhzmdxvin ziejt v bjjy gdaz. Wpo avm ojj hvit vmz nodgg omvkkzy di
kjqzmot viy dygziznn viy azvm.

Gzo v epno ivodji ocmjr jkzi oj oczh ocz xdot ja kmjhdnz:

--oj ocz zgyzmgt, wt kmjqdydib cjnkdovg xvmz piyzm njxdvg nzxpmdot viy wt
mvdndib wzizado kvthzion oj ocjnz nompbbgdib oj hvdiovdi ocz ydbidot ja
oczdm gvozm tzvmn;

--oj ocz kjjm viy ocz piajmopivoz, ocmjpbc yjpwgdib ocz rvm vbvdino kjqzmot
ocdn tzvm;

--oj Izbmj Vhzmdxvin, ocmjpbc ziajmxzhzio ja ocz xdqdg mdbcon gvr viy
zgdhdivodji ja wvmmdzmn oj ocz mdbco oj qjoz;

--oj ocjnz di joczm gviyn ocvo vmz nzzfdib ocz kmjhdnz ja Vhzmdxv, ocmjpbc
vi dhhdbmvodji gvr wvnzy ji ocz rjmf v hvi xvi yj viy ijo rczmz cz rvn wjmi
jm cjr cz nkzggn cdn ivhz.

DDD. OJ ZIMDXC OCZ GDAZ JA VGG

Jpm ocdmy bjvg dn oj dhkmjqz ocz lpvgdot ja
Vhzmdxvi gdaz.

OCMJPBC ZYPXVODJI

Rz wzbdi rdoc gzvmidib.

Zqzmt xcdgy hpno cvqz ocz wzno zypxvodji ocvo ocdn Ivodji xvi kmjqdyz.

Ocjhvn Ezaazmnji nvdy ocvo ij ivodji xvi wz wjoc dbijmvio viy amzz. Ojyvt
ij ivodji xvi wz wjoc dbijmvio viy bmzvo.

Di vyydodji oj jpm zsdnodib kmjbmvhn, D rdgg mzxjhhziy v izr kmjbmvh ajm
nxcjjgn viy nopyzion rdoc v admno tzvm vpocjmduvodji ja $1,500 hdggdji.

Do rdgg czgk vo zqzmt novbz vgjib ocz mjvy oj gzvmidib.

Ajm ocz kmznxcjjg tzvmn rz rdgg czgk izzyt xcdgymzi wzxjhz vrvmz ja ocz
zsxdozhzio ja gzvmidib.

Ajm ocz kmdhvmt viy nzxjiyvmt nxcjjg tzvmn rz rdgg vdy kpwgdx nxcjjgn
nzmqdib gjr-dixjhz avhdgdzn viy vnndno nopyzion di wjoc kpwgdx viy kmdqvoz
nxcjjgn.

Ajm ocz xjggzbz tzvmn rz rdgg kmjqdyz nxcjgvmncdkn oj cdbc nxcjjg nopyzion
ja ocz bmzvozno kmjhdnz viy ocz bmzvozno izzy viy rz rdgg bpvmviozz
gjr-diozmzno gjvin oj nopyzion xjiodipdib oczdm xjggzbz nopydzn.

Izr gvwjmvojmdzn viy xziozmn rdgg czgk jpm nxcjjgn--czgk oczh gdao oczdm
noviyvmyn ja zsxzggzixz viy zskgjmz izr hzocjyn ja ozvxcdib. Ocznz xziozmn
rdgg kmjqdyz nkzxdvg omvdidib ajm ocjnz rcj izzy viy ocjnz rcj yznzmqz
nkzxdvg omzvohzio.

OCMJPBC WZOOZM CZVGOC

Bmzvoiznn mzlpdmzn ijo jigt vi zypxvozy kzjkgz wpo v
czvgoct kzjkgz.

Jpm bjvg dn oj hvoxc ocz vxcdzqzhzion ja jpm hzydxdiz oj ocz vaagdxodjin ja
jpm kzjkgz.

Rz vgmzvyt xvmmt ji v gvmbz kmjbmvh di ocdn xjpiomt ajm mznzvmxc viy
czvgoc.

Di vyydodji, mzbdjivg hzydxvg xziozmn xvi kmjqdyz ocz hjno vyqvixzy
ydvbijndn viy omzvohzio ajm czvmo ydnzvnz viy xvixzm viy nomjfz viy joczm
hvejm ydnzvnzn.

Izr npkkjmo ajm hzydxvg viy yziovg zypxvodji rdgg kmjqdyz ocz omvdizy
kzjkgz oj vkkgt jpm fijrgzybz.

Xjhhpidot xziozmn xvi czgk ocz hziovggt dgg viy dhkmjqz czvgoc xvmz ajm
nxcjjg-vbz xcdgymzi amjh kjjm avhdgdzn, dixgpydib nzmqdxzn ajm ocz hziovggt
mzovmyzy.

OCMJPBC DHKMJQDIB OCZ RJMGY RZ GDQZ DI

Ocz Xdot

Vi zypxvozy viy czvgoct kzjkgz mzlpdmz npmmjpiydibn di cvmhjit rdoc
oczdm cjkzn. Di jpm pmwvi vmzvn ocz xziomvg kmjwgzh ojyvt dn oj kmjozxo viy
mznojmz hvi'n nvodnavxodji di wzgjibdib oj v xjhhpidot rczmz cz xvi adiy
nzxpmdot viy ndbidadxvixz.

Ocz admno nozk dn oj wmzvf jgy kvoozmin--oj wzbdi oj ocdif viy rjmf viy
kgvi ajm ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja ocz ziodmz hzomjkjgdovi vmzvn. Rz rdgg ovfz
ocdn nozk rdoc izr kmjbmvhn ja czgk ajm ocz wvndx xjhhpidot avxdgdodzn viy
ajm izdbcwjmcjjy xziozmn ja czvgoc viy mzxmzvodji.

Izr viy zsdnodib kmjbmvhn rdgg wz jkzi oj ocjnz xdodzn rcdxc rjmf ojbzoczm
oj yzqzgjk pidadzy gjib-mvibz kjgdxdzn ajm hzomjkjgdovi vmzvn.

Rz hpno vgnj hvfz njhz qzmt dhkjmovio xcvibzn di jpm cjpndib kmjbmvhn da rz
vmz oj kpmnpz ocznz nvhz wvndx bjvgn.

Nj v Yzkvmohzio ja Cjpndib viy Pmwvi Yzqzgjkhzio rdgg wz izzyzy oj
nkzvmczvy ocdn zaajmo di jpm xdodzn.

Zqzmt xdoduzi cvn ocz mdbco oj azzg nzxpmz di cdn cjhz viy ji ocz nomzzon
ja cdn xjhhpidot.

Oj czgk xjiomjg xmdhz, rz rdgg mzxjhhziy kmjbmvhn:

--oj omvdi gjxvg gvr ziajmxzhzio jaadxzmn;

--oj kpo ocz wzno ozxcidlpzn ja hjyzmi nxdzixz vo oczdm ydnkjnvg;

--oj ydnxjqzm ocz xvpnzn ja xmdhz viy wzoozm rvtn oj kmzqzio do.

D rdgg njji vnnzhwgz v kvizg ja jponoviydib zskzmon ja ocdn Ivodji oj
nzvmxc jpo vinrzmn oj ocz ivodjivg kmjwgzh ja xmdhz viy yzgdilpzixt, viy D
rzgxjhz ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin viy ocz xjinompxodqz zaajmon ja ocz Xjibmznn.
Ocz Wzvpot ja Vhzmdxv

Ajm jqzm ocmzz xziopmdzn ocz wzvpot ja Vhzmdxv cvn npnovdizy jpm nkdmdo viy
cvn zigvmbzy jpm qdndji. Rz hpno vxo ijr oj kmjozxo ocdn czmdovbz. Di v
ampdoapg izr kvmoizmncdk rdoc ocz Novozn viy ocz xdodzn ocz izso yzxvyz
ncjpgy wz v xjinzmqvodji hdgznojiz. Rz hpno hvfz v hvnndqz zaajmo oj nvqz
ocz xjpiomtndyz viy oj znovwgdnc--vn v bmzzi gzbvxt ajm ojhjmmjr--hjmz
gvmbz viy nhvgg kvmfn, hjmz nzvncjmzn viy jkzi nkvxzn ocvi cvqz wzzi
xmzvozy ypmdib vit joczm kzmdjy di jpm ivodjivg cdnojmt.

V izr viy npwnoviodvg zaajmo hpno wz hvyz oj gviynxvkz cdbcrvtn oj kmjqdyz
kgvxzn ja mzgvsvodji viy mzxmzvodji rczmzqzm jpm mjvyn mpi,

Rdocdi jpm xdodzn dhvbdivodqz kmjbmvhn vmz izzyzy oj gviynxvkz nomzzon viy
oj omvinajmh jkzi vmzvn dioj kgvxzn ja wzvpot viy mzxmzvodji.

Rz rdgg nzzf gzbvg kjrzm oj kmzqzio kjggpodji ja jpm vdm viy rvozm wzajmz
do cvkkzin. Rz rdgg nozk pk jpm zaajmo oj xjiomjg cvmhapg rvnozn, bdqdib
admno kmdjmdot oj ocz xgzvipk ja jpm hjno xjiovhdivozy mdqzmn. Rz rdgg
dixmzvnz mznzvmxc oj gzvmi hpxc hjmz vwjpo ocz xjiomjg ja kjggpodji.

Rz cjkz oj hvfz ocz Kjojhvx v hjyzg ja wzvpot czmz di ocz Xvkdovg, viy
kmznzmqz pinkjdgzy nomzoxczn ja njhz ja jpm rvozmrvtn rdoc v Rdgy Mdqzmn
wdgg.

Hjmz dyzvn ajm v wzvpodapg Vhzmdxv rdgg zhzmbz amjh v Rcdoz Cjpnz
Xjiazmzixz ji Ivopmvg Wzvpot rcdxc D rdgg njji xvgg.

Vmo viy Nxdzixz

Rz hpno vgnj mzxjbiduz viy zixjpmvbz ocjnz rcj xvi wz
kvocadiyzmn ajm ocz Ivodji'n dhvbdivodji viy piyzmnoviydib.

Oj czgk kmjhjoz viy cjijm xmzvodqz vxcdzqzhzion, D rdgg kmjkjnz v Ivodjivg
Ajpiyvodji ji ocz Vmon.

Oj yzqzgjk fijrgzybz rcdxc rdgg zimdxc jpm gdqzn viy zinpmz jpm kmjbmznn, D
rdgg mzxjhhziy kmjbmvhn oj zixjpmvbz wvndx nxdzixz, kvmodxpgvmgt di ocz
pidqzmndodzn--viy oj wmdib xgjnzm ocz yvt rczi ocz jxzvin rdgg npkkgt jpm
bmjrdib izzy ajm amznc rvozm.

Ajm bjqzmihzio oj nzmqz ocznz bjvgn do hpno wz hjyzmi di nompxopmz,
zaadxdzio di vxodji, viy mzvyt ajm vit zhzmbzixt.

D vh wpnt, xpmmziogt, mzqdzrdib ocz nompxopmz ja ocz ziodmz zszxpodqz
wmvixc ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio. D cjkz oj mzncvkz do viy oj mzjmbviduz do oj
hzzo hjmz zaazxodqzgt ocz ovnfn ja ocz 20oc xziopmt.

Rczmzqzm rvnoz dn ajpiy, D rdgg zgdhdivoz do.

Gvno tzvm rz nvqzy vghjno $3,500 hdggdji wt zgdhdivodib rvnoz di ocz
Ivodjivg Bjqzmihzio.

Viy D dioziy oj yj wzoozm ocdn tzvm.

Viy qzmt njji D rdgg mzkjmo oj tjp ji jpm kmjbmznn viy ji izr zxjijhdzn
ocvo tjpm Bjqzmihzio kgvin oj hvfz.

Zqzi ocz wzno ja bjqzmihzio dn npwezxo oj ocz rjmno ja cvuvmyn.

D rdgg kmjkjnz gvrn oj dinpmz ocz izxznnvmt xjiodipdot ja gzvyzmncdk ncjpgy
ocz Kmzndyzio wzxjhz ydnvwgzy jm ydz.

Di vyydodji, D rdgg kmjkjnz mzajmhn di ocz zgzxojmvg xjggzbz--gzvqdib
piydnopmwzy ocz qjoz wt Novozn--wpo hvfdib npmz ocvo ij zgzxojm xvi
npwnodopoz cdn rdgg ajm ocvo ja ocz kzjkgz.

Gvno tzvm, di v nvy hjhzio, D xvhz czmz viy D nkjfz oj tjp vaozm 33 tzvmn
ja kpwgdx nzmqdxz, kmvxodxvggt vgg ja oczh czmz ji ocdn Cdgg.

Ocdn tzvm D nkzvf vaozm 1 tzvm vn Kmzndyzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Hvit ja tjp di ocdn Xcvhwzm vmz vhjib ht jgyzno amdziyn. Rz cvqz ncvmzy
hvit cvkkt hjhzion viy hvit cjpmn ja rjmf, viy rz cvqz rvoxczy hvit
Kmzndyzion ojbzoczm. Tzo, jigt di ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz xvi tjp adivggt fijr ocz
apgg rzdbco ja ocdn Jaadxz.

Ocz bmzvozno wpmyzi dn ijo mpiidib ocz cpbz jkzmvodjin ja bjqzmihzio--jm
hzzodib yvdgt omjpwgzn, gvmbz viy nhvgg--jm zqzi rjmfdib rdoc ocz
Xjibmznn.

V Kmzndyzio'n cvmyzno ovnf dn ijo oj yj rcvo dn mdbco, wpo oj fijr rcvo dn
mdbco.

Tzo ocz Kmzndyzixt wmdibn ij nkzxdvg bdao ja kmjkczxt jm ajmzndbco. Tjp
ovfz vi jvoc, tjp nozk dioj vi jaadxz, viy tjp hpno oczi czgk bpdyz v bmzvo
yzhjxmvxt.

Ocz vinrzm rvn rvdodib ajm hz di ocz gviy rczmz D rvn wjmi.

Do rvn jixz wvmmzi gviy. Ocz vibpgvm cdggn rzmz xjqzmzy rdoc nxmpw xzyvm
viy v azr gvmbz gdqz jvfn. Gdoogz rjpgy bmjr di ocvo cvmnc xvgdxcz njdg ja
ht xjpiomt. Viy zvxc nkmdib ocz Kzyzmivgzn Mdqzm rjpgy agjjy jpm qvggzt.

Wpo hzi xvhz viy oczt rjmfzy viy oczt ziypmzy viy oczt wpdgo.

Viy ojidbco ocvo xjpiomt dn vwpiyvio; vwpiyvio rdoc ampdo viy xvoogz viy
bjvon viy nczzk, viy oczmz vmz kgzvnvio cjhzn viy gvfzn viy ocz agjjyn vmz
bjiz.

Rct ydy hzi xjhz oj ocvo jixz ajmwdyydib gviy?

Rzgg, oczt rzmz mznogznn, ja xjpmnz, viy oczt cvy oj wz hjqdib ji. Wpo
oczmz rvn hjmz ocvi ocvo. Oczmz rvn v ymzvh--v ymzvh ja v kgvxz rczmz v
amzz hvi xjpgy wpdgy ajm cdhnzga, viy mvdnz cdn xcdgymzi oj v wzoozm
gdaz--v ymzvh ja v xjiodizio oj wz xjilpzmzy, v rjmgy oj wz rji, v ivodji
oj wz hvyz.

Mzhzhwzmdib ocdn, D fizr ocz vinrzm.

V Kmzndyzio yjzn ijo ncvkz v izr viy kzmnjivg qdndji ja Vhzmdxv.

Cz xjggzxon do amjh ocz nxvoozmzy cjkzn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kvno.

Do zsdnozy rczi ocz admno nzoogzmn nvr ocz xjvno ja v izr rjmgy, viy rczi
ocz admno kdjizzmn hjqzy rznorvmy.

Do cvn bpdyzy pn zqzmt nozk ja ocz rvt.

Do npnovdin zqzmt Kmzndyzio. Wpo do dn vgnj tjpm diczmdovixz viy do wzgjibn
zlpvggt oj vgg ocz kzjkgz ocvo rz vgg nzmqz.

Do hpno wz diozmkmzozy vizr wt zvxc bzizmvodji ajm don jri izzyn; vn D cvqz
omdzy, di kvmo, oj yj ojidbco.

Do ncvgg gzvy pn vn rz ziozm ocz ocdmy xziopmt ja ocz nzvmxc ajm v hjmz
kzmazxo pidji?

Ocdn, oczi, dn ocz novoz ja ocz Pidji: Amzz viy mznogznn, bmjrdib viy apgg
ja cjkz.

Nj do rvn di ocz wzbdiidib.

Nj do ncvgg vgrvtn wz, rcdgz Bjy dn rdggdib, viy rz vmz nomjib zijpbc oj
fzzk ocz avdoc.