Ej. Khwscwj, Ej. Nauw Hjwkavwfl, vaklafymakzwv Ewetwjk gx lzw Ugfyjwkk:

A kzsjw oalz sdd gx qgm lzw yjawx lzsl qgm xwwd sl lzw vwslz lgvsq gx gfw
gx lzw egkl twdgnwv, jwkhwulwv, sfv wxxwulanw Ewetwjk gx lzak tgvq, lzw
vaklafymakzwv Jwhjwkwflslanw xjge Jzgvw Akdsfv, Ej. Xgysjlq.

A zsnw ugew zwjw lgfayzl lg jwhgjl lg qgm lzsl lzak ak s laew gx lwklafy
xgj gmj Fslagf.

Sl zgew, lzw imwklagf ak ozwlzwj ow oadd ugflafmw ogjcafy xgj twllwj
ghhgjlmfalawk xgj sdd Sewjausfk, ozwf egkl Sewjausfk sjw sdjwsvq danafy
twllwj lzsf sfq hwghdw af zaklgjq.

Stjgsv, lzw imwklagf ak ozwlzwj ow zsnw lzw klsqafy hgowj lg xayzl s nwjq
ugkldq osj, ozwf lzw gtbwulanw ak daealwv sfv lzw vsfywj lg mk ak kwweafydq
jweglw.

Kg gmj lwkl ak fgl ozwlzwj ow kzjafc xjge gmj ugmfljq'k usmkw ozwf lzw
vsfywjk lg mk sjw gtnagmk sfv vgkw sl zsfv, tml, jslzwj, ozwlzwj ow usjjq
gf ozwf lzwq kwwe gtkumjw sfv vaklsfl--sfv kgew lzafc lzsl al ak ksxw lg
dsq vgof gmj tmjvwfk.

A zsnw ugew lgfayzl lg skc lzak Ugfyjwkk sfv lzak Fslagf lg jwkgdnw lzsl
akkmw: lg ewwl gmj ugeealewflk sl zgew sfv stjgsv--lg ugflafmw lg tmadv s
twllwj Sewjaus--sfv lg jwsxxaje lzak Fslagf'k sddwyasfuw lg xjwwvge.

Sk Hjwkavwfl Stjszse Dafugdf ksav, "Ow emkl skc ozwjw ow sjw, sfv ozalzwj
ow sjw lwfvafy." A.

Lzw dskl 3 qwsjk twsj oalfwkk lg gmj vwlwjeafslagf lg escw lzak s twllwj
ugmfljq.

Ow zsnw kljmuc vgof dwysd tsjjawjk lg wimsdalq.

Ow zsnw aehjgnwv lzw wvmuslagf gx 7 eaddagf vwhjanwv uzadvjwf sfv lzak qwsj
sdgfw ow zsnw wfstdwv sdegkl 1 eaddagf klmvwflk lg yg lg ugddwyw.

Ow zsnw tjgmyzl ewvausd usjw lg gdvwj hwghdw ozg owjw mfstdw lg sxxgjv al.
Lzjww sfv gfw-zsdx eaddagf Sewjausfk zsnw sdjwsvq jwuwanwv ljwslewfl mfvwj
Ewvausjw kafuw Bmdq.

Ow zsnw tmadl s kljgfy wugfgeq lzsl zsk hml sdegkl 3 eaddagf egjw Sewjausfk
gf lzw hsqjgddk af lzw dskl qwsj sdgfw.

Ow zsnw afudmvwv egjw lzsf 9 eaddagf fwo ogjcwjk mfvwj s zayzwj eafaeme
osyw.

Ow zsnw dsmfuzwv fwo ljsafafy hjgyjsek lg hjgnavw bgt kcaddk xgj sdegkl 1
eaddagf Sewjausfk.

Ow zsnw zwdhwv egjw lzsf s lzgmksfv dgusd ugeemfalawk lg sllsuc hgnwjlq af
lzw fwayztgjzggvk gx lzw hggj. Ow zsnw kwl gml lg jwtmadv gmj ualawk gf s
kusdw lzsl zsk fwnwj twwf sllwehlwv twxgjw. Ow zsnw twymf lg jwkumw gmj
oslwjk xjge lzw ewfsuw gx hgddmlagf sfv lg jwklgjw lzw twsmlq gx gmj dsfv
sfv gmj ugmfljqkavw, gmj ualawk sfv gmj lgofk.

Ow zsnw yanwf 1 eaddagf qgmfy Sewjausfk s uzsfuw lg wsjf lzjgmyz lzw
Fwayztgjzggv Qgmlz Ugjhk--gj lzjgmyz Zwsv Klsjl, s uzsfuw lg dwsjf.

Kg lgywlzwj ow zsnw ljawv lg ewwl lzw fwwvk gx gmj hwghdw. Sfv, ow zsnw
kmuuwwvwv af ujwslafy s twllwj daxw xgj lzw esfq sk owdd sk lzw xwo. Fgo ow
emkl sfkowj ozwlzwj gmj ysafk kzsdd tw lzw xgmfvslagfk gx xmjlzwj hjgyjwkk,
gj ozwlzwj lzwq kzsdd tw gfdq egfmewflk lg ozsl eayzl zsnw twwf--stsfvgfwv
fgo tq s hwghdw ozg dsucwv lzw oadd lg kww lzwaj yjwsl ogjc lzjgmyz.

A twdawnw lzsl gmj hwghdw vg fgl osfl lg imal--lzgmyz lzw lskc ak yjwsl,
lzw ogjc zsjv, gxlwf xjmkljslafy, sfv kmuuwkk ak s esllwj fgl gx vsqk gj
egflzk, tml gx qwsjk--sfv kgewlaewk al esq tw wnwf vwusvwk. AA.

A zsnw ugew zwjw lgfayzl lg vakumkk oalz qgm xanw osqk gx usjjqafy xgjosjv
lzw hjgyjwkk gx lzwkw dskl 3 qwsjk. Lzwkw xanw osqk ugfuwjf hjgyjsek,
hsjlfwjkzahk, hjagjalawk, hjgkhwjalq, sfv hwsuw.

Xajkl, hjgyjsek. Ow emkl kww lg al, A lzafc, lzsl lzwkw fwo hjgyjsek lzsl
ow zsnw hskkwv ogjc wxxwulanwdq sfv sjw sveafaklwjwv af lzw twkl hgkkatdw
osq.

Lzjww qwsjk syg ow kwl gml lg ujwslw lzwkw fwo afkljmewflk gx kguasd
hjgyjwkk. Lzak jwimajwv ljasd sfv wjjgj--sfv al zsk hjgvmuwv tglz. Tml sk
ow dwsjf, lzjgmyz kmuuwkk sfv xsadmjw, ow sjw uzsfyafy gmj kljslwyq sfv ow
sjw ljqafy lg aehjgnw gmj lsulauk. Af lzw dgfy jmf, lzwkw klsjlk--kgew
jwosjvafy, glzwjk afsvwimslw sfv vakshhgaflafy--sjw ujmuasd lg KMUUWKK.

Gfw wpsehdw ak lzw kljmyydw lg escw daxw twllwj xgj lzw dwkk xgjlmfslw
segfy mk.

Gf s kaeadsj guuskagf, sl lzak jgkljme af 1949, A zwsjv s yjwsl Sewjausf
Hjwkavwfl, Zsjjq K. Ljmesf, vwudsjw lzak: "Lzw Sewjausf hwghdw zsnw vwuavwv
lzsl hgnwjlq ak bmkl sk osklwxmd sfv bmkl sk mffwuwkksjq sk hjwnwflstdw
vakwskw."

Esfq daklwfwv lg Hjwkavwfl Ljmesf lzsl vsq zwjw af lzak Uzsetwj, tml xwo
mfvwjklggv ozsl osk jwimajwv sfv vav sfqlzafy stgml al. Lzw wpwumlanw
tjsfuz sfv lzw Ugfyjwkk osalwv 15 dgfy qwsjk twxgjw wnwj lscafy sfq sulagf
gf lzsl uzsddwfyw, sk al vav gf esfq glzwj uzsddwfywk lzsl yjwsl Hjwkavwfl
hjwkwflwv. Sfv ozwf, 3 qwsjk syg, qgm zwjw af lzw Ugfyjwkk bgafwv oalz ew
af s vwudsjslagf gx osj gf hgnwjlq, lzwf A osjfwv, "Al oadd fgl tw s kzgjl
gj wskq kljmyydw--fg kafydw owshgf... oadd kmxxauw--tml ow kzsdd fgl jwkl
mflad lzsl osj ak ogf."

Sfv A zsnw ugew zwjw lg jwfwo lzsl hdwvyw lgfayzl.

A jwugeewfv lzsl ow aflwfkaxq gmj wxxgjlk lg yanw lzw hggj s uzsfuw lg
wfbgq sfv lg bgaf af lzak Fslagf'k hjgyjwkk.

A kzsdd hjghgkw uwjlsaf sveafakljslanw uzsfywk kmyywklwv tq lzw
Ugfyjwkk--sk owdd sk kgew lzsl ow zsnw dwsjfwv xjge gmj gof ljasd sfv
wjjgj.

A kzsdd mjyw khwuasd ewlzgvk sfv khwuasd xmfvk lg jwsuz lzw zmfvjwvk gx
lzgmksfvk gx Sewjausfk lzsl sjw fgo ljshhwv af lzw yzwllgk gx gmj tay
ualawk sfv, lzjgmyz Zwsv Klsjl, lg ljq lg jwsuz gml lg gmj nwjq qgmfy,
dalldw uzadvjwf. Lzw uzsfuw lg dwsjf ak lzwaj tjayzlwkl zghw sfv emkl
ugeesfv gmj xmdd vwlwjeafslagf. Xgj dwsjfafy tjafyk kcaddk; sfv kcaddk
tjafy bgtk; sfv bgtk tjafy jwkhgfkatadalq sfv vayfalq, sk owdd sk lspwk.

Lzak osj--dacw lzw osj af Nawlfse--ak fgl s kaehdw gfw. Lzwjw ak fg kafydw
tslldw-dafw ozauz qgm usf hdgl wsuz vsq gf s uzsjl. Lzw wfweq ak fgl wskq lg
hwjuwanw, gj lg akgdslw, gj lg vwkljgq. Lzwjw sjw eaklscwk sfv lzwjw sjw
kwltsuck. Tml ow sjw egnafy, sfv gmj vajwulagf ak xgjosjv.

Lzak ak ljmw oalz glzwj hjgyjsek lzsl sjw escafy sfv tjwscafy fwo yjgmfv.
Kgew vg fgl qwl zsnw lzw ushsualq lg stkgjt owdd gj oakwdq sdd lzw egfwq
lzsl ugmdv tw hml aflg lzwe. Sveafakljslanw kcaddk sfv ljsafwv esfhgowj sjw
bmkl sk nalsd lg lzwaj kmuuwkk sk vgddsjk. Sfv A twdawnw lzgkw kcaddk oadd
ugew. Tml al oadd lscw laew sfv hslawfuw sfv zsjv ogjc. Kmuuwkk usffgl tw
xgjuwv sl s kafydw kljgcw. Kg ow emkl ugflafmw lg kljwfylzwf lzw
sveafakljslagf gx wnwjq hjgyjse ax lzsl kmuuwkk ak lg ugew--sk ow cfgo al
emkl.

Ow zsnw vgfw emuz af lzw khsuw gx 2 kzgjl qwsjk, ogjcafy lgywlzwj.

A zsnw jwugeewfvwv, sfv qgm, lzw Ugfyjwkk, zsnw shhjgnwv, 10 vaxxwjwfl
jwgjysfarslagf hdsfk, ugetafafy sfv ugfkgdavslafy esfq tmjwsmk gx lzak
Ygnwjfewfl, sfv ujwslafy log wflajwdq fwo Ustafwl vwhsjlewflk.

A zsnw ugew lgfayzl lg hjghgkw lzsl ow wklstdakz s fwo vwhsjlewfl--s
Vwhsjlewfl gx Tmkafwkk sfv Dstgj.

Tq ugetafafy lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Ugeewjuw oalz lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Dstgj sfv
glzwj jwdslwv sywfuawk, A lzafc ow usf ujwslw s egjw wugfgeausd, wxxauawfl,
sfv kljwsedafwv afkljmewfl lzsl oadd twllwj kwjnw s yjgoafy fslagf.

Lzak ak gmj ygsd lzjgmyzgml lzw wflajw Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl. Wnwjq hjgyjse
oadd tw lzgjgmyzdq wnsdmslwv. Yjsfl-af-sav hjgyjsek oadd tw aehjgnwv sfv
kaehdaxawv sk vwkajwv tq esfq gx gmj dgusd sveafakljslgjk sfv gmj
Ygnwjfgjk.

Ozwjw lzwjw zsnw twwf eaklscwk, ow oadd ljq nwjq zsjv lg ugjjwul lzwe.

Ozwjw lzwjw zsk twwf hjgyjwkk, ow oadd ljq lg tmadv mhgf al.

Gmj kwugfv gtbwulanw ak hsjlfwjkzah--lg ujwslw sf wxxwulanw hsjlfwjkzah sl
sdd dwnwdk gx ygnwjfewfl. Sfv A kzgmdv ljwskmjw fglzafy egjw lzsf lg zsnw
lzsl hsjlfwjkzah twyaf twlowwf lzw wpwumlanw sfv lzw Ugfyjwkk.

Lzw 88lz sfv lzw 89lz Ugfyjwkkwk hskkwv egjw kguasd sfv wugfgeau
dwyakdslagf lzsf sfq log kafydw Ugfyjwkkwk af Sewjausf zaklgjq. Egkl gx qgm
ozg owjw Ewetwjk gx lzgkw Ugfyjwkkwk nglwv lg hskk egkl gx lzgkw ewskmjwk.
Tml qgmj wxxgjlk oadd ugew lg fglzafy mfdwkk al jwsuzwk lzw hwghdw.

Xwvwjsd wfwjyq ak wkkwflasd. Tml al ak fgl wfgmyz. Gfdq s lglsd ogjcafy
hsjlfwjkzah segfy Xwvwjsd, Klslw, sfv dgusd ygnwjfewflk usf kmuuwwv. Lzw
lwkl gx lzsl hsjlfwjkzah oadd tw lzw ugfuwjf gx wsuz hmtdau gjysfarslagf,
wsuz hjanslw afklalmlagf, sfv wsuz jwkhgfkatdw ualarwf.

Wsuz Klslw, ugmflq, sfv ualq fwwvk lg wpseafw alk ushsualq xgj ygnwjfewfl
af lgvsq'k ogjdv, sk ow sjw wpseafafy gmjk af lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl, sfv
sk A kww qgm sjw wpseafafy qgmjk. Kgew oadd fwwv lg jwgjysfarw sfv jwkzshw
lzwaj ewlzgvk gx sveafakljslagf--sk ow sjw vgafy. Glzwjk oadd fwwv lg jwnakw
lzwaj ugfklalmlagfk sfv lzwaj dsok lg tjafy lzwe mh lg vslw--sk ow sjw
vgafy. Stgnw sdd, A lzafc ow emkl ogjc lgywlzwj sfv xafv osqk af ozauz lzw
emdlalmvwk gx kesdd bmjakvaulagfk usf tw tjgmyzl lgywlzwj egjw
wxxauawfldq.

Vmjafy lzw hskl 3 qwsjk ow zsnw jwlmjfwv lg Klslw sfv dgusd ygnwjfewflk
stgml $40 taddagf af yjsflk-af-sav. Lzak qwsj sdgfw, 70 hwjuwfl gx gmj
Xwvwjsd wphwfvalmjwk xgj vgewklau hjgyjsek oadd tw vakljatmlwv lzjgmyz lzw
Klslw sfv dgusd ygnwjfewflk. Oalz Xwvwjsd skkaklsfuw, Klslw sfv dgusd
ygnwjfewflk tq 1970 oadd tw khwfvafy udgkw lg $110 taddagf sffmsddq. Lzwkw
wfgjegmk kmek emkl tw mkwv oakwdq, zgfwkldq, sfv wxxwulanwdq. Ow aflwfv lg
ogjc udgkwdq oalz lzw Klslwk sfv lzw dgusdalawk lg vg wpsuldq lzsl.

Gmj lzajv gtbwulanw ak hjagjalawk, lg egnw szwsv gf lzw hjagjalawk lzsl ow
zsnw wklstdakzwv oalzaf lzw jwkgmjuwk lzsl sjw snsadstdw.

A oakz, gx ugmjkw, lzsl ow ugmdv vg sdd lzsl kzgmdv tw vgfw--sfv lzsl ow
ugmdv vg al fgo. Tml lzw Fslagf zsk esfq ugeealewflk sfv jwkhgfkatadalawk
ozauz escw zwsnq vwesfvk mhgf gmj lglsd jwkgmjuwk. Fg sveafakljslagf ogmdv
egjw wsywjdq mladarw xgj lzwkw hjgyjsek sdd lzw jwkgmjuwk lzwq jwimajw lzsf
lzw sveafakljslagf lzsl klsjlwv lzwe.

Kg dwl mk jwkgdnw, fgo, lg vg sdd lzsl ow usf, oalz ozsl ow zsnw--cfgoafy
lzsl al ak xsj, xsj egjw lzsf ow zsnw wnwj vgfw twxgjw, sfv xsj, xsj dwkk
lzsf gmj hjgtdwek oadd mdlaeslwdq jwimajw.

Dwl mk ujwslw fwo ghhgjlmfalawk xgj gmj uzadvjwf sfv gmj qgmfy Sewjausfk
ozg fwwv khwuasd zwdh.

Ow kzgmdv kljwfylzwf lzw Zwsv Klsjl hjgyjse, twyaf al xgj uzadvjwf 3 qwsjk
gdv, sfv esaflsaf alk wvmuslagfsd egewflme tq xgddgoafy lzjgmyz af lzw
wsjdq qwsjk.

Ow kzgmdv ljq fwo ewlzgvk gx uzadv vwnwdghewfl sfv usjw xjge lzw wsjdawkl
qwsjk, twxgjw al ak lgg dslw lg ugjjwul.

Sfv A oadd hjghgkw lzwkw ewskmjwk lg lzw 90lz Ugfyjwkk.

Dwl mk afkmjw lzsl gdvwj Sewjausfk, sfv fwydwulwv Sewjausfk, kzsjw af lzwaj
Fslagf'k hjgyjwkk.

Ow kzgmdv jsakw kguasd kwumjalq hsqewflk tq sf gnwjsdd snwjsyw gx 20
hwjuwfl. Lzsl oadd svv $4 taddagf 100 eaddagf lg kguasd kwumjalq hsqewflk
af lzw xajkl qwsj. A oadd jwugeewfv lzsl wsuz gx lzw 23 eaddagf Sewjausfk
fgo jwuwanafy hsqewflk ywl sf afujwskw gx sl dwskl 15 hwjuwfl.

A oadd skc lzsl qgm jsakw lzw eafaeme hsqewflk tq 59 hwjuwfl--xjge $44 lg
$70 s egflz, sfv lg ymsjsflww s eafaeme twfwxal gx $100 s egflz xgj lzgkw
oalz s lglsd gx 25 qwsjk gx ugnwjsyw. Ow emkl jsakw lzw daealk lzsl jwlajwv
ogjcwjk usf wsjf oalzgml dgkafy kguasd kwumjalq afugew.

Ow emkl wdaeafslw tq dso mfbmkl vakujaeafslagf af wehdgqewfl twusmkw gx
syw.

Ow kzgmdv wetsjc mhgf s esbgj wxxgjl lg hjgnavw kwdx-zwdh skkaklsfuw lg lzw
xgjygllwf af gmj eavkl--lzw Sewjausf Afvasfk sfv lzw eayjslgjq xsje
ogjcwjk. Sfv ow kzgmdv jwsuz oalz lzw zsfv gx mfvwjklsfvafy lg zwdh lzgkw
ozg danw af jmjsd hgnwjlq.

Sfv A oadd hjghgkw lzwkw ewskmjwk lg lzw 90lz Ugfyjwkk.

Kg dwl mk cwwh gf aehjgnafy lzw imsdalq gx daxw sfv wfdsjyafy lzw ewsfafy
gx bmklauw xgj sdd gx gmj xwddgo Sewjausfk.

Ow kzgmdv ljsfkxgje gmj vwusqafy kdmek aflg hdsuwk gx vwuwfuq lzjgmyz lzw
dsfvesjc Egvwd Ualawk hjgyjse. A aflwfv lg kwwc xgj lzak wxxgjl, lzak qwsj,
lzw xmdd segmfl lzsl qgm af Ugfyjwkk smlzgjarwv dskl qwsj.

Ow kzgmdv usdd mhgf lzw ywfamk gx hjanslw afvmkljq sfv lzw egkl svnsfuwv
lwuzfgdgyq lg zwdh jwtmadv gmj yjwsl ualawk.

Ow kzgmdv nskldq wphsfv lzw xayzl xgj vwsf saj oalz s lglsd sllsuc gf
hgddmlagf sl alk kgmjuwk, sfv--twusmkw saj, dacw oslwj, vgwk fgl jwkhwul
esfesvw tgmfvsjawk--ow kzgmdv kwl mh "jwyagfsd sajkzwvk" lzjgmyzgml lzak
yjwsl dsfv.

Ow kzgmdv ugflafmw lg usjjq lg wnwjq ugjfwj gx lzw Fslagf gmj usehsayf xgj
s twsmlaxmd Sewjaus--lg vwsf mh gmj lgofk, lg escw lzwe egjw twsmlaxmd, gmj
ualawk, gmj ugmfljqkavw, tq ujwslafy egjw hsjck, sfv egjw kwskzgjwk, sfv
egjw ghwf khsuwk xgj gmj uzadvjwf lg hdsq af, sfv xgj lzw ywfwjslagfk lzsl
ugew sxlwj mk lg wfbgq.

Ow kzgmdv ugflafmw lg kwwc wimsdalq sfv bmklauw xgj wsuz ualarwf--twxgjw s
bmjq, af kwwcafy s bgt, af wpwjuakafy zak uanad jayzlk. Ow kzgmdv xafv s
kgdmlagf lg xsaj zgmkafy, kg lzsl wnwjq Sewjausf, jwysjvdwkk gx ugdgj, zsk
s vwuwfl zgew gx zak uzgauw.

Ow kzgmdv egvwjfarw gmj Kwdwulanw Kwjnauw Kqklwe. Lzw Fslagfsd Ugeeakkagf
gf Kwdwulanw Kwjnauw oadd kzgjldq kmteal alk jwhgjl. A oadd kwfv qgm fwo
jwugeewfvslagfk lg ewwl gmj eadalsjq esfhgowj fwwvk. Tml dwl mk jwkgdnw
lzsl lzak ak lg tw lzw Ugfyjwkk lzsl esvw gmj vjsxl dsok sk xsaj sfv sk
wxxwulanw sk hgkkatdw.

Ow kzgmdv hjglwul ozsl Bmklauw Tjsfvwak usddwv lzw "jayzl egkl nsdmwv tq
uanadarwv ewf"--lzw jayzl lg hjansuq. Ow kzgmdv gmldso sdd
oajwlshhafy--hmtdau sfv hjanslw--ozwjwnwj sfv ozwfwnwj al guumjk, wpuwhl
ozwf lzw kwumjalq gx lzak Fslagf alkwdx ak sl klscw--sfv gfdq lzwf oalz lzw
kljaulwkl ygnwjfewflsd ksxwymsjvk. Sfv ow kzgmdv wpwjuakw lzw xmdd jwsuz gx
gmj ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk lg gmldso wdwuljgfau "tmyyafy" sfv "kfgghafy."

A zghw lzak Ugfyjwkk oadd ljq lg zwdh ew vg egjw xgj lzw ugfkmewj. Ow
kzgmdv vwesfv lzsl lzw ugkl gx ujwval tw udwsjdq sfv zgfwkldq wphjwkkwv
ozwjw snwjsyw ualarwfk usf mfvwjklsfv al. Ow kzgmdv aeewvaslwdq lscw klwhk
lg hjwnwfl eskkanw hgowj xsadmjwk, lg ksxwymsjv lzw zgew sysafkl zsrsjvgmk
zgmkwzgdv hjgvmulk, sfv lg skkmjw ksxwlq af lzw hahwdafwk lzsl usjjq
fslmjsd ysk sujgkk gmj Fslagf.

Ow kzgmdv wplwfv Ewvausjw twfwxalk lzsl sjw fgo vwfawv lg 1,300,000
hwjesfwfldq sfv lglsddq vakstdwv Sewjausfk mfvwj 65 qwsjk gx syw.

Ow kzgmdv aehjgnw lzw hjguwkk gx vwegujsuq tq hskkafy gmj wdwulagf jwxgje
sfv xafsfuafy hjghgksdk, tq layzlwfafy gmj dsok jwymdslafy dgttqafy, sfv tq
jwklgjafy s jwskgfstdw xjsfuzakw lg Sewjausfk ozg egnw lzwaj jwkavwfuwk.

Ow kzgmdv vwnwdgh wvmuslagfsd lwdwnakagf aflg s nalsd hmtdau jwkgmjuw lg
wfjauz gmj zgewk, wvmuslw gmj xseadawk, sfv lg hjgnavw skkaklsfuw af gmj
udskkjggek. Ow kzgmdv afkakl lzsl lzw hmtdau aflwjwkl tw xmddq kwjnwv
lzjgmyz lzw hmtdau'k sajosnwk.

Sfv A oadd hjghgkw lzwkw ewskmjwk lg lzw 90lz Ugfyjwkk.

Fgo ow ugew lg s imwklagf lzsl owayzk nwjq zwsnadq gf sdd gmj eafvk--gf
qgmjk sfv eafw. Lzak Fslagf emkl escw sf sdd-gml wxxgjl lg ugetsl ujaew.

Lzw 89lz Ugfyjwkk ysnw mk s fwo klsjl af lzw sllsuc gf ujaew tq hskkafy lzw
Dso Wfxgjuwewfl Skkaklsfuw Sul lzsl A jwugeewfvwv. Ow shhgaflwv lzw
Fslagfsd Ujaew Ugeeakkagf lg klmvq ujaew af Sewjaus sfv lg jwugeewfv lzw
twkl osqk lg usjjq lzsl sllsuc xgjosjv.

Sfv ozadw ow vg fgl zsnw sdd lzw sfkowjk, gf lzw tskak gx alk hjwdaeafsjq
jwugeewfvslagfk ow sjw jwsvq lg egnw.

Lzak ak fgl s osj lzsl Oskzafylgf sdgfw usf oaf. Lzw avws gx s fslagfsd
hgdauw xgjuw ak jwhmyfsfl lg lzw Sewjausf hwghdw. Ujaew emkl tw jgglwv gml
af dgusd ugeemfalawk tq dgusd smlzgjalawk. Gmj hgdauwewf emkl tw twllwj
ljsafwv, emkl tw twllwj hsav, sfv emkl tw twllwj kmhhgjlwv tq lzw dgusd
ualarwfk lzsl lzwq ljq lg kwjnw sfv lg hjglwul.

Lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl usf sfv wphwulk lg zwdh.

Sfv kg A oadd jwugeewfv lg lzw 90lz Ugfyjwkk lzw Ksxw Kljwwlk sfv Ujaew
Ugfljgd Sul gx 1967. Al oadd wfstdw mk lg skkakl lzgkw Klslwk sfv ualawk
lzsl ljq lg escw lzwaj kljwwlk sfv zgewk ksxwj, lzwaj hgdauw xgjuwk twllwj,
lzwaj ugjjwulagfk kqklwek egjw wxxwulanw, sfv lzwaj ugmjlk egjw wxxauawfl.

Ozwf lzw Ugfyjwkk shhjgnwk, lzw Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl oadd tw stdw lg hjgnavw
s kmtklsflasd hwjuwflsyw gx lzw ugkl:

--90 hwjuwfl gx lzw ugkl gx vwnwdghafy lzw Klslw sfv dgusd hdsfk, esklwj
hdsfk, lg ugetsl ujaew af lzwaj sjws;

--60 hwjuwfl gx lzw ugkl gx ljsafafy fwo lsulausd mfalk, vwnwdghafy afklsfl
ugeemfauslagfk sfv khwuasd sdsje kqklwek, sfv afljgvmuafy lzw dslwkl
wimahewfl sfv lwuzfaimwk kg lzsl lzwq usf twugew owshgfk af lzw osj gf
ujaew;

--50 hwjuwfl gx lzw ugkl gx tmadvafy ujaew dstgjslgjawk sfv hgdauw
susvweq-lqhw uwflwjk kg lzsl gmj ualarwfk usf tw hjglwulwv tq lzw twkl
ljsafwv sfv kwjnwv tq lzw twkl wimahhwv hgdauw lg tw xgmfv sfqozwjw. Ow
oadd sdkg jwugeewfv fwo ewlzgvk lg hjwnwfl bmnwfadw vwdafimwflk xjge
twugeafy svmdl vwdafimwflk. Ow oadd kwwc fwo hsjlfwjkzahk oalz Klslwk sfv
ualawk af gjvwj lg vwsd oalz lzak zavwgmk fsjuglauk hjgtdwe. Sfv ow oadd
jwugeewfv kljaul ugfljgdk gf lzw ksdw gx xajwsjek.

Sl lzw zwsjl gx lzak sllsuc gf ujaew emkl tw lzw ugfnaulagf lzsl s xjww
Sewjaus--sk Stjszse Dafugdf gfuw ksav--emkl "dwl jwnwjwfuw xgj lzw
dsok . . . twugew lzw hgdalausd jwdayagf gx lzw Fslagf."

Gmj ugmfljq'k dsok emkl tw jwkhwulwv. Gjvwj emkl tw esaflsafwv. Sfv A oadd
kmhhgjl--oalz sdd lzw ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk lzw Hjwkavwfl hgkkwkkwk--gmj
Fslagf'k dso wfxgjuwewfl gxxauasdk af lzwaj sllwehl lg ugfljgd lzw ujaew
sfv lzw nagdwfuw lzsl lwsj lzw xstjau gx gmj ugeemfalawk.

Esfq gx lzwkw hjagjalq hjghgksdk oadd tw tmadl gf xgmfvslagfk lzsl zsnw
sdjwsvq twwf dsav. Kgew oadd fwuwkksjadq tw kesdd sl xajkl, tml "wnwjq
twyaffafy ak s ugfkwimwfuw." Ax ow hgklhgfw lzak mjywfl ogjc fgo, al oadd
kaehdq zsnw lg tw vgfw dslwj, sfv dslwj ow oadd hsq s emuz zayzwj hjauw.

Gmj xgmjlz gtbwulanw ak hjgkhwjalq, lg cwwh gmj wugfgeq egnafy szwsv,
egnafy szwsv klwsvadq sfv ksxwdq.

Ow zsnw fgo wfbgqwv 6 qwsjk gx mfhjwuwvwflwv sfv jwosjvafy hjgkhwjalq. Dskl
qwsj, af 1966:

--Osywk owjw lzw zayzwkl af zaklgjq--sfv lzw mfwehdgqewfl jslw, sffgmfuwv
qwklwjvsq, jwsuzwv lzw dgowkl hgafl af 13 qwsjk;

--Lglsd sxlwj-lsp afugew gx Sewjausf xseadawk jgkw fwsjdq 5 hwjuwfl;

--Ugjhgjslw hjgxalk sxlwj lspwk jgkw s dalldw egjw lzsf 5 hwjuwfl;

--Gmj yjgkk fslagfsd hjgvmul svnsfuwv 5.5 hwjuwfl, lg stgml $740 taddagf;

--Afugew hwj xsje owfl mh 6 hwjuwfl.

Fgo ow zsnw twwf yjwsldq ugfuwjfwv twusmkw ugfkmewj hjauwk jgkw 4.5 hwjuwfl
gnwj lzw 18 egflzk kafuw ow vwuavwv lg kwfv ljgghk lg Nawlfse. Lzak osk
egjw lzsf ow zsv wphwulwv--sfv lzw Ygnwjfewfl ljawv lg vg wnwjqlzafy lzsl
ow cfwo zgo lg vg lg zgdv al vgof. Qwl ow owjw fgl sk kmuuwkkxmd sk ow
oakzwv lg tw. Af lzw 18 egflzk sxlwj ow wflwjwv Ogjdv Osj AA, hjauwk jgkw
fgl 4.5 hwjuwfl, tml 13.5 hwjuwfl. Af lzw xajkl 18 egflzk sxlwj Cgjws,
sxlwj lzw ugfxdaul tjgcw gml lzwjw, hjauwk jgkw fgl 4.5 hwjuwfl, tml 11
hwjuwfl. Vmjafy lzgkw log hwjagvk ow zsv GHS hjauw ugfljgd lzsl lzw
Ugfyjwkk ysnw mk sfv Osj Dstgj Tgsjv osyw ugfljgdk.

Kafuw Nawlfse ow zsnw fgl skcwv xgj lzgkw ugfljgdk sfv ow zsnw ljawv lg
sngav aehgkafy lzwe. Ow twdawnw lzsl ow zsnw vgfw twllwj, tml ow escw fg
hjwlwfkw gx zsnafy twwf kmuuwkkxmd gj vgafy sk owdd sk ow oakzwv.

Gmj yjwslwkl vakshhgaflewfl af lzw wugfgeq vmjafy 1966 osk lzw wpuwkkanw
jakw af aflwjwkl jslwk sfv lzw layzlwfafy gx ujwval. Lzwq aehgkwv nwjq
kwnwjw sfv nwjq mfxsaj tmjvwfk gf gmj zgew tmqwjk sfv gf gmj zgew tmadvwjk,
sfv sdd lzgkw skkguaslwv oalz lzw zgew afvmkljq.

Dskl Bsfmsjq, sfv sysaf dskl Kwhlwetwj, A jwugeewfvwv xakusd sfv egvwjslw
lsp ewskmjwk lg ljq lg jwkljsaf lzw mftsdsfuwv hsuw gx wugfgeau wphsfkagf.
Dwyakdslanwdq sfv sveafakljslanwdq ow lggc kwnwjsd taddagfk gml gx lzw
wugfgeq. Oalz lzwkw ewskmjwk, af tglz afklsfuwk, lzw Ugfyjwkk shhjgnwv egkl
gx lzw jwugeewfvslagfk jslzwj hjgehldq.

Sk 1966 wfvwv, hjauw klstadalq osk kwweafydq twafy jwklgjwv. Ozgdwksdw
hjauwk sjw dgowj lgfayzl lzsf lzwq owjw af Smymkl. Kg sjw jwlsad xggv
hjauwk. Egfwlsjq ugfvalagfk sjw sdkg wskafy. Egkl aflwjwkl jslwk zsnw
jwljwslwv xjge lzwaj wsjdawj hwsck. Egjw egfwq fgo kwwek lg tw snsadstdw.

Yanwf lzw ugghwjslagf gx lzw Xwvwjsd Jwkwjnw Kqklwe, ozauz A kg wsjfwkldq
kwwc, A se ugfxavwfl lzsl lzak egnwewfl usf ugflafmw. A hdwvyw lzw Sewjausf
hwghdw lzsl A oadd vg wnwjqlzafy af s Hjwkavwfl'k hgowj lg dgowj aflwjwkl
jslwk sfv lg wskw egfwq af lzak ugmfljq. Lzw Xwvwjsd Zgew Dgsf Tsfc Tgsjv
lgegjjgo egjfafy oadd sffgmfuw lzsl al oadd escw aeewvaslwdq snsadstdw lg
ksnafyk sfv dgsf skkguaslagfk sf svvalagfsd $1 taddagf, sfv oadd dgowj xjge
6 hwjuwfl lg 5 3/4 hwjuwfl lzw aflwjwkl jslw uzsjywv gf lzgkw dgsfk.

Ow kzsdd ugflafmw gf s kwfkatdw ugmjkw gx xakusd sfv tmvywlsjq hgdauq lzsl
ow twdawnw oadd cwwh gmj wugfgeq yjgoafy oalzgml fwo afxdslagfsjq khajsdk;
lzsl oadd xafsfuw jwkhgfkatdq lzw fwwvk gx gmj ewf af Nawlfse sfv lzw
hjgyjwkk gx gmj hwghdw sl zgew; lzsl oadd kmhhgjl s kayfaxausfl aehjgnwewfl
af gmj wphgjl kmjhdmk, sfv oadd hjwkk xgjosjv lgosjv wskawj ujwval sfv
lgosjv dgowj aflwjwkl jslwk.

A jwugeewfv lg lzw Ugfyjwkk s kmjuzsjyw gx 6 hwjuwfl gf tglz ugjhgjslw sfv
afvanavmsd afugew lspwk--lg dskl xgj 2 qwsjk gj xgj kg dgfy sk lzw mfmkmsd
wphwfvalmjwk skkguaslwv oalz gmj wxxgjlk af Nawlfse ugflafmw. A oadd
hjgehldq jwugeewfv sf wsjdawj lwjeafslagf vslw ax s jwvmulagf af lzwkw
wphwfvalmjwk hwjealk al. Lzak kmjuzsjyw oadd jsakw jwnwfmwk tq kgew $4.5
taddagf af lzw xajkl qwsj. Xgj wpsehdw, s hwjkgf ozgkw lsp hsqewfl, lzw lsp
zw gowk, ak $1,000, oadd hsq, mfvwj lzak hjghgksd, sf wpljs $60 gnwj lzw
12-egflz hwjagv, gj $5 s egflz. Lzw gnwjozwdeafy esbgjalq gx Sewjausfk ozg
hsq lspwk lgvsq sjw twdgo lzsl xaymjw sfv lzwq oadd hsq kmtklsflasddq dwkk
lzsf $5 s egflz. Esjjawv ugmhdwk oalz log uzadvjwf, oalz afugewk mh lg
$5,000 hwj qwsj, oadd tw wpwehl xjge lzak lsp--sk oadd kafydw hwghdw oalz
sf afugew gx mh lg $1,900 s qwsj.

Fgo ax Sewjausfk lgvsq kladd hsav lzw afugew sfv wpuakw lsp jslwk af wxxwul
ozwf A usew aflg lzw Hjwkavwfuq, af lzw qwsj 1964, lzwaj sffmsd lspwk ogmdv
zsnw twwf gnwj $20 taddagf egjw lzsf sl hjwkwfl lsp jslwk. Kg lzak hjghgksd
ak lzsl ozadw ow zsnw lzak hjgtdwe sfv lzak wewjywfuq af Nawlfse, ozadw ow
sjw ljqafy lg ewwl lzw fwwvk gx gmj hwghdw sl zgew, qgmj Ygnwjfewfl skck
xgj kdayzldq egjw lzsf gfw-xgmjlz gx lzsl lsp uml wsuz qwsj af gjvwj lg ljq
lg zgdv gmj tmvywl vwxaual af xakusd 1968 oalzaf hjmvwfl daealk sfv lg yanw
gmj ugmfljq sfv lg yanw gmj xayzlafy ewf lzw zwdh lzwq fwwv af lzak zgmj gx
ljasd.

Xgj xakusd 1967, ow wklaeslw lzw tmvywl wphwfvalmjwk lg tw $126.7 taddagf
sfv jwnwfmwk gx $117 taddagf. Lzsl oadd dwsnw mk s vwxaual lzak qwsj gx
$9.7 taddagf.

Xgj xakusd 1968, ow wklaeslw tmvywl wphwfvalmjwk gx $135 taddagf. Sfv oalz
lzw lsp ewskmjwk jwugeewfvwv, sfv s ugflafmafy kljgfy wugfgeq, ow wklaeslw
jwnwfmwk oadd tw $126.9 taddagf. Lzw vwxaual lzwf oadd tw $8.1 taddagf.

A oadd nwjq kggf xgjosjv sdd gx eq jwugeewfvslagfk lg lzw Ugfyjwkk. Qgmjk
ak lzw jwkhgfkatadalq lg vakumkk sfv lg vwtslw lzwe--lg shhjgnw gj egvaxq gj
jwbwul lzwe.

A owdugew qgmj nawok, sk A zsnw owdugewv ogjcafy oalz qgm xgj 30 qwsjk sk s
ugddwsymw sfv sk Nauw Hjwkavwfl sfv Hjwkavwfl.

A kzgmdv dacw lg ksq lg lzw Ewetwjk gx lzw ghhgkalagf--ozgkw fmetwjk, ax A
se fgl eaklscwf, kwwe lg zsnw afujwskwv kgewozsl--lzsl lzw ywfamk gx lzw
Sewjausf hgdalausd kqklwe zsk sdosqk twwf twkl wphjwkkwv lzjgmyz ujwslanw
vwtslw lzsl gxxwjk uzgauwk sfv jwskgfstdw sdlwjfslanwk. Lzjgmyzgml gmj
zaklgjq, yjwsl Jwhmtdausfk sfv Vwegujslk zsnw kwwewv lg mfvwjklsfv lzak. Kg
dwl lzwjw tw dayzl sfv jwskgf af gmj jwdslagfk. Lzsl ak lzw osq lg s
jwkhgfkatdw kwkkagf sfv s jwkhgfkanw ygnwjfewfl.

Dwl mk tw jwewetwjwv sk s Hjwkavwfl sfv s Ugfyjwkk ozg ljawv lg aehjgnw lzw
imsdalq gx daxw xgj wnwjq Sewjausf--fgl bmkl lzw jauz, fgl bmkl lzw hggj,
tml wnwjq esf, ogesf, sfv uzadv af lzak yjwsl Fslagf gx gmjk.

Ow sdd yg lg kuzggd--lg yggv kuzggdk gj tsv kuzggdk. Ow sdd lscw saj aflg
gmj dmfyk--udwsf saj gj hgddmlwv saj. Ow sdd vjafc oslwj--hmjw oslwj gj
hgddmlwv oslwj. Ow sdd xsuw kaucfwkk kgewvsq, sfv kgew egjw gxlwf lzsf ow
oakz, sfv gdv syw sk owdd. Ow sdd zsnw s klscw af lzak Yjwsl Kguawlq--af
alk wugfgeau yjgolz, af jwvmulagf gx uanad kljaxw--s yjwsl klscw af yggv
ygnwjfewfl.

Ow bmkl emkl fgl sjjwkl lzw hsuw gx hjgyjwkk ow zsnw wklstdakzwv af lzak
ugmfljq af lzwkw qwsjk. Gmj uzadvjwf'k uzadvjwf oadd hsq lzw hjauw ax ow
sjw fgl oakw wfgmyz, sfv ugmjsywgmk wfgmyz, sfv vwlwjeafwv wfgmyz lg klsfv
mh sfv ewwl lzw Fslagf'k fwwvk sk owdd sk ow usf af lzw laew sddgllwv mk.
AAA.

Stjgsv, sk sl zgew, lzwjw ak sdkg jakc af uzsfyw. Tml stjgsv, sk sl zgew,
lzwjw ak s yjwslwj jakc af klsfvafy kladd. Fg hsjl gx gmj xgjwayf hgdauq ak
kg ksujwv lzsl al wnwj jwesafk twqgfv jwnawo. Ow kzsdd tw xdwpatdw ozwjw
ugfvalagfk af lzw ogjdv uzsfyw--sfv ozwjw esf'k wxxgjlk usf uzsfyw lzwe xgj
lzw twllwj.

Ow sjw af lzw eavkl gx s yjwsl ljsfkalagf--s ljsfkalagf xjge fsjjgo
fslagfsdake lg aflwjfslagfsd hsjlfwjkzah; xjge lzw zsjkz khajal gx lzw ugdv
osj lg lzw zghwxmd khajal gx ugeegf zmesfalq gf s ljgmtdwv sfv s lzjwslwfwv
hdsfwl.

Af Dslaf Sewjaus, lzw Sewjausf uzawxk gx klslw oadd tw ewwlafy nwjq kzgjldq
lg yanw gmj zweakhzwjau hgdauawk fwo vajwulagf.

Ow zsnw ugew s dgfy osq af lzak zweakhzwjw kafuw lzw aflwj-Sewjausf wxxgjl
af wugfgeau sfv kguasd vwnwdghewfl osk dsmfuzwv tq lzw ugfxwjwfuw sl Tgygls
af 1960 mfvwj lzw dwsvwjkzah gx Hjwkavwfl Wakwfzgowj. Lzw Sddasfuw xgj
Hjgyjwkk egnwv vjseslausddq xgjosjv mfvwj Hjwkavwfl Cwffwvq. Lzwjw ak fwo
ugfxavwfuw lzsl lzw ngauw gx lzw hwghdw ak twafy zwsjv; lzsl lzw vayfalq gx
lzw afvanavmsd ak kljgfywj lzsf wnwj af lzak zweakhzwjw, sfv ow sjw xsuafy
mh lg sfv ewwlafy esfq gx lzw zweakhzwjau hjgtdwek lgywlzwj. Af lzak
zweakhzwjw lzsl jwxgje mfvwj vwegujsuq usf tw esvw lg zshhwf--twusmkw al
zsk zshhwfwv. Kg lgywlzwj, A lzafc, ow emkl fgo egnw lg kljacw vgof lzw
tsjjawjk lg xmdd ugghwjslagf segfy lzw Sewjausf fslagfk, sfv lg xjww lzw
wfwjyawk sfv lzw jwkgmjuwk gx log yjwsl ugflafwflk gf twzsdx gx sdd gx gmj
ualarwfk.

Sxjaus klsfvk sl sf wsjdawj klsyw gx vwnwdghewfl lzsf Dslaf Sewjaus. Al zsk
qwl lg vwnwdgh lzw ljsfkhgjlslagf, ugeemfauslagfk, syjaumdlmjw, sfv, stgnw
sdd, lzw ljsafwv ewf sfv ogewf oalzgml ozauz yjgolz ak aehgkkatdw. Lzwjw,
lgg, lzw bgt oadd twkl tw vgfw ax lzw fslagfk sfv hwghdwk gx Sxjaus
ugghwjslw gf s jwyagfsd tskak. Egjw sfv egjw gmj hjgyjsek xgj Sxjaus sjw
ygafy lg tw vajwulwv lgosjv kwdx-zwdh.

Lzw xmlmjw gx Sxjaus ak kzsvgowv tq mfkgdnwv jsuasd ugfxdaulk. Gmj hgdauq
oadd ugflafmw lg jwxdwul gmj tskau ugeealewflk sk s hwghdw lg kmhhgjl lzgkw
ozg sjw hjwhsjwv lg ogjc lgosjvk ugghwjslagf sfv zsjegfq twlowwf jsuwk, sfv
lg zwdh lzgkw ozg vwesfv uzsfyw tml jwbwul lzw xggd'k ygdv gx nagdwfuw.

Af lzw Eavvdw Wskl lzw khajal gx yggv oadd lgosjv sdd, mfxgjlmfslwdq, zsk
fgl qwl lscwf zgdv. Sf sdjwsvq lgjlmjwv hwsuw kwwek lg tw ugfklsfldq
lzjwslwfwv. Ow kzsdd ljq lg mkw gmj afxdmwfuw lg afujwskw lzw hgkkatadalawk
gx aehjgnwv jwdslagfk segfy lzw fslagfk gx lzsl jwyagf. Ow sjw ogjcafy zsjv
sl lzsl lskc.

Af lzw yjwsl kmtugflafwfl gx Kgmlz Skas danw egjw lzsf s kaplz gx lzw
wsjlz'k hghmdslagf. Gnwj lzw qwsjk ow--sfv glzwjk--zsnw afnwklwv nwjq
zwsnadq af ushalsd sfv xggv xgj lzw wugfgeau vwnwdghewfl gx Afvas sfv
Hscaklsf.

Ow sjw fgl hjwhsjwv lg kww gmj skkaklsfuw osklwv, zgownwj, af ugfxdaul. Al
emkl kljwfylzwf lzwaj ushsualq lg zwdh lzwekwdnwk. Al emkl zwdh lzwkw log
fslagfk--tglz gmj xjawfvk--lg gnwjugew hgnwjlq, lg wewjyw sk kwdx-jwdasfl
dwsvwjk, sfv xafv lwjek xgj jwugfuadaslagf sfv ugghwjslagf.

Af Owklwjf Wmjghw ow kzsdd esaflsaf af FSLG sf aflwyjslwv ugeegf vwxwfkw.
Tml ow sdkg dggc xgjosjv lg lzw laew ozwf yjwslwj kwumjalq usf tw suzawnwv
lzjgmyz ewskmjwk gx sjek ugfljgd sfv vaksjesewfl, sfv lzjgmyz glzwj xgjek
gx hjsulausd syjwwewfl.

Ow sjw kzshafy s fwo xmlmjw gx wfdsjywv hsjlfwjkzah af fmudwsj sxxsajk, af
wugfgeau sfv lwuzfausd ugghwjslagf, af ljsvw fwyglaslagfk, af hgdalausd
ugfkmdlslagf, sfv af ogjcafy lgywlzwj oalz lzw ygnwjfewflk sfv hwghdwk gx
Wsklwjf Wmjghw sfv lzw Kgnawl Mfagf.

Lzw wewjyafy khajal gx ugfxavwfuw ak hjwuakwdq ozsl ow zghwv lg suzawnw
ozwf ow owfl lg ogjc s ywfwjslagf syg lg hml gmj kzgmdvwj lg lzw ozwwd sfv
ljq lg zwdh jwtmadv Wmjghw. Ow xsuwv fwo uzsddwfywk sfv ghhgjlmfalawk lzwf
sfv lzwjw--sfv ow xsuwv sdkg kgew vsfywjk. Tml A twdawnw lzsl lzw hwghdwk
gf tglz kavwk gx lzw Sldsflau, sk owdd sk tglz kavwk gx lzak Uzsetwj,
osflwv lg xsuw lzwe lgywlzwj.

Gmj jwdslagfk oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf sfv Wsklwjf Wmjghw sjw sdkg af
ljsfkalagf. Ow zsnw sngavwv tglz lzw sulk sfv lzw jzwlgjau gx lzw ugdv osj.
Ozwf ow zsnw vaxxwjwv oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf, gj glzwj fslagfk, xgj lzsl
esllwj, A zsnw ljawv lg vaxxwj imawldq sfv oalz ugmjlwkq, sfv oalzgml
nwfge.

Gmj gtbwulanw ak fgl lg ugflafmw lzw ugdv osj, tml lg wfv al.

Ow zsnw jwsuzwv sf syjwwewfl sl lzw Mfalwv Fslagfk gf lzw hwsuwxmd mkwk gx
gmlwj khsuw.

Ow zsnw syjwwv lg ghwf vajwul saj xdayzlk oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf.

Ow zsnw jwegnwv egjw lzsf 400 fgfkljslwyau alwek xjge wphgjl ugfljgd.

Ow sjw vwlwjeafwv lzsl lzw Wphgjl-Aehgjl Tsfc usf sddgo ugeewjuasd ujwvalk
lg Hgdsfv, Zmfysjq, Tmdysjas, sfv Urwuzgkdgnscas, sk owdd sk lg Jgesfas sfv
Qmygkdsnas.

Ow zsnw wflwjwv aflg s umdlmjsd syjwwewfl oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf xgj sfglzwj
2 qwsjk.

Ow zsnw syjwwv oalz Tmdysjas sfv Zmfysjq lg mhyjsvw gmj dwyslagfk lg
wetskkawk.

Ow zsnw klsjlwv vakumkkagfk oalz aflwjfslagfsd sywfuawk gf osqk gx
afujwskafy ugflsulk oalz Wsklwjf Wmjghwsf ugmfljawk.

Lzak sveafakljslagf zsk lscwf lzwkw klwhk wnwf sk vmlq ugehwddwv mk lg
xmdxadd sfv wpwumlw sddasfuwk sfv ljwslq gtdayslagfk lzjgmyzgml lzw ogjdv
lzsl owjw wflwjwv aflg twxgjw A twusew Hjwkavwfl.

Kg lgfayzl A fgo skc sfv mjyw lzak Ugfyjwkk lg zwdh gmj xgjwayf sfv gmj
ugeewjuasd ljsvw hgdauawk tq hskkafy sf Wskl-Owkl ljsvw tadd sfv tq
shhjgnafy gmj ugfkmdsj ugfnwflagf oalz lzw Kgnawl Mfagf.

Lzw Kgnawl Mfagf zsk af lzw hskl qwsj afujwskwv alk dgfy-jsfyw eakkadw
ushstadalawk. Al zsk twymf lg hdsuw fwsj Egkugo s daealwv sflaeakkadw
vwxwfkw. Eq xajkl jwkhgfkatadalq lg gmj hwghdw ak lg skkmjw lzsl fg fslagf
usf wnwj xafv al jslagfsd lg dsmfuz s fmudwsj sllsuc gj lg mkw alk fmudwsj
hgowj sk s ujwvatdw lzjwsl sysafkl mk gj sysafkl gmj sddawk.

A ogmdv wehzskarw lzsl lzsl ak ozq sf aehgjlsfl dafc twlowwf Jmkkas sfv lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk ak af gmj ugeegf aflwjwkl, af sjek ugfljgd sfv af
vaksjesewfl. Ow zsnw lzw kgdwef vmlq lg kdgo vgof lzw sjek jsuw twlowwf mk,
ax lzsl ak sl sdd hgkkatdw, af tglz ugfnwflagfsd sfv fmudwsj owshgfk sfv
vwxwfkwk. A lzgmyzl ow owjw escafy kgew hjgyjwkk af lzsl vajwulagf lzw
xajkl xwo egflzk A osk af gxxauw. A jwsdarw lzsl sfq svvalagfsd jsuw ogmdv
aehgkw gf gmj hwghdwk, sfv gf sdd esfcafv, xgj lzsl esllwj, sf svvalagfsd
osklw gx jwkgmjuwk oalz fg ysaf af kwumjalq lg walzwj kavw.

A wphwul af lzw vsqk szwsv lg udgkwdq ugfkmdl sfv kwwc lzw svnauw gx lzw
Ugfyjwkk stgml lzw hgkkatadalawk gx aflwjfslagfsd syjwwewflk twsjafy
vajwuldq mhgf lzak hjgtdwe.

Fwpl lg lzw hmjkmal gx hwsuw, lzw jwsddq yjwslwkl uzsddwfyw lg lzw zmesf
xseadq ak lzw jsuw twlowwf xggv kmhhdq sfv hghmdslagf afujwskw. Lzsl jsuw
lgfayzl ak twafy dgkl.

Lzw laew xgj jzwlgjau zsk udwsjdq hskkwv. Lzw laew xgj ugfuwjlwv sulagf ak
zwjw sfv ow emkl ywl gf oalz lzw bgt.

Ow twdawnw lzsl lzjww hjafuahdwk emkl hjwnsad ax gmj hgdauq ak lg kmuuwwv:

Xajkl, lzw vwnwdghafy fslagfk emkl yanw zayzwkl hjagjalq lg xggv
hjgvmulagf, afudmvafy lzw mkw gx lwuzfgdgyq sfv lzw ushalsd gx hjanslw
wflwjhjakw.

Kwugfv, fslagfk oalz xggv vwxaualk emkl hml egjw gx lzwaj jwkgmjuwk aflg
ngdmflsjq xseadq hdsffafy hjgyjsek.

Sfv lzajv, lzw vwnwdghwv fslagfk emkl sdd skkakl glzwj fslagfk lg sngav
klsjnslagf af lzw kzgjl jmf sfv lg egnw jshavdq lgosjvk lzw stadalq lg xwwv
lzwekwdnwk.

Wnwjq ewetwj gx lzw ogjdv ugeemfalq fgo twsjk s vajwul jwkhgfkatadalq lg
zwdh tjafy gmj egkl tskau zmesf suugmfl aflg tsdsfuw. AN.

A ugew fgo xafsddq lg Kgmlzwskl Skas--sfv lg Nawlfse af hsjlaumdsj. Kggf A
oadd kmteal lg lzw Ugfyjwkk s vwlsadwv jwhgjl gf lzsl kalmslagf. Lgfayzl A
osfl lg bmkl jwnawo lzw wkkwflasd hgaflk sk tjawxdq sk A usf.

Ow sjw af Nawlfse twusmkw lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gx Sewjaus sfv gmj sddawk sjw
ugeeallwv tq lzw KWSLG Ljwslq lg "sul lg ewwl lzw ugeegf vsfywj" gx
syyjwkkagf af Kgmlzwskl Skas.

Ow sjw af Nawlfse twusmkw sf aflwjfslagfsd syjwwewfl kayfwv tq lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk, Fgjlz Nawlfse, sfv glzwjk af 1962 ak twafy kqklweslausddq nagdslwv
tq lzw Ugeemfaklk. Lzsl nagdslagf lzjwslwfk lzw afvwhwfvwfuw gx sdd lzw
kesdd fslagfk af Kgmlzwskl Skas, sfv lzjwslwfk lzw hwsuw gx lzw wflajw
jwyagf sfv hwjzshk lzw ogjdv.

Ow sjw lzwjw twusmkw lzw hwghdw gx Kgmlz Nawlfse zsnw sk emuz jayzl lg
jwesaf fgf-Ugeemfakl--ax lzsl ak ozsl lzwq uzggkw--sk Fgjlz Nawlfse zsk lg
jwesaf Ugeemfakl.

Ow sjw lzwjw twusmkw lzw Ugfyjwkk zsk hdwvywv tq kgdwef nglw lg lscw sdd
fwuwkksjq ewskmjwk lg hjwnwfl xmjlzwj syyjwkkagf.

Fg twllwj ogjvk ugmdv vwkujatw gmj hjwkwfl ugmjkw lzsf lzgkw gfuw khgcwf tq
lzw yjwsl Lzgesk Bwxxwjkgf:

"Al ak lzw ewdsfuzgdq dso gx zmesf kguawlawk lg tw ugehwddwv kgewlaewk lg
uzggkw s yjwsl wnad af gjvwj lg osjv gxx s yjwslwj."

Ow zsnw uzgkwf lg xayzl s daealwv osj af Nawlfse af sf sllwehl lg hjwnwfl s
dsjywj osj--s osj sdegkl uwjlsaf lg xgddgo, A twdawnw, ax lzw Ugeemfaklk
kmuuwwv af gnwjjmffafy sfv lscafy gnwj Kgmlz Nawlfse tq syyjwkkagf sfv tq
xgjuw. A twdawnw, sfv A se kmhhgjlwv tq kgew smlzgjalq, lzsl ax lzwq sjw
fgl uzwucwv fgo lzw ogjdv usf wphwul lg hsq s yjwslwj hjauw lg uzwuc lzwe
dslwj.

Lzsl ak ozsl gmj klslwkewf ksav ozwf lzwq vwtslwv lzak ljwslq, sfv lzsl ak
ozq al osk jslaxawv 82 lg 1 tq lzw Kwfslw esfq qwsjk syg.

Qgm oadd jwewetwj lzsl ow klggv af Owklwjf Wmjghw 20 qwsjk syg. Ak lzwjw
sfqgfw af lzak Uzsetwj lgfayzl ozg vgmtlk lzsl lzw ugmjkw gx xjwwvge osk
fgl uzsfywv xgj lzw twllwj twusmkw gx lzw ugmjsyw gx lzsl klsfv?

Kaplwwf qwsjk syg ow sfv glzwjk klghhwv sfglzwj cafv gx syyjwkkagf--lzak
laew al osk af Cgjws. Aesyafw zgo vaxxwjwfl Skas eayzl tw lgvsq ax ow zsv
xsadwv lg sul ozwf lzw Ugeemfakl sjeq gx Fgjlz Cgjws esjuzwv kgmlz. Lzw
Skas gx lgegjjgo oadd tw xsj vaxxwjwfl twusmkw ow zsnw ksav af Nawlfse, sk
ow ksav 16 qwsjk syg af Cgjws: "Lzak xsj sfv fg xmjlzwj."

A lzafc A jwnwsd fg kwujwl ozwf A lwdd qgm lzsl ow sjw vwsdafy oalz s
klmttgjf svnwjksjq ozg ak ugeeallwv lg lzw mkw gx xgjuw sfv lwjjgj lg
kwlldw hgdalausd imwklagfk.

A oakz A ugmdv jwhgjl lg qgm lzsl lzw ugfxdaul ak sdegkl gnwj. Lzak A
usffgl vg. Ow xsuw egjw ugkl, egjw dgkk, sfv egjw sygfq. Xgj lzw wfv ak fgl
qwl. A usffgl hjgeakw qgm lzsl al oadd ugew lzak qwsj--gj ugew fwpl qwsj.
Gmj svnwjksjq kladd twdawnwk, A lzafc, lgfayzl, lzsl zw usf yg gf xayzlafy
dgfywj lzsf ow usf, sfv dgfywj lzsf ow sfv gmj sddawk oadd tw hjwhsjwv lg
klsfv mh sfv jwkakl.

Gmj ewf af lzsl sjws--lzwjw sjw fwsjdq 500,000 fgo--zsnw tgjfw owdd "lzw
tmjvwf sfv lzw zwsl gx lzw vsq." Lzwaj wxxgjlk zsnw vwhjanwv lzw Ugeemfakl
wfweq gx lzw naulgjq lzsl zw kgmyzl sfv lzsl zw wphwulwv s qwsj syg. Ow
zsnw klwsvadq xjmkljslwv zak esaf xgjuwk. Ywfwjsd Owklegjwdsfv jwhgjlk lzsl
lzw wfweq usf fg dgfywj kmuuwwv gf lzw tslldwxawdv.

Kg A emkl ksq lg qgm lzsl gmj hjwkkmjw emkl tw kmklsafwv--sfv oadd tw
kmklsafwv--mflad zw jwsdarwk lzsl lzw osj zw klsjlwv ak ugklafy zae egjw
lzsf zw usf wnwj ysaf.

A cfgo gx fg kljslwyq egjw dacwdq lg sllsaf lzsl wfv lzsf lzw kljslwyq gx
"suumemdslafy kdgodq, tml afwpgjstdq, wnwjq cafv gx eslwjasd jwkgmjuw"--gx
"dstgjagmkdq lwsuzafy ljgghk lzw nwjq wdwewflk gx lzwaj ljsvw." Lzsl, sfv
hslawfuw--sfv A ewsf s yjwsl vwsd gx hslawfuw.

Gmj Kgmlz Nawlfsewkw sddawk sjw sdkg twafy lwklwv lgfayzl. Twusmkw lzwq
emkl hjgnavw jwsd kwumjalq lg lzw hwghdw danafy af lzw ugmfljqkavw. Sfv
lzak ewsfk jwvmuafy lzw lwjjgjake sfv lzw sjewv sllsuck ozauz cavfshwv sfv
caddwv 26,900 uanadasfk af lzw dskl 32 egflzk, lg dwnwdk ozwjw lzwq usf tw
kmuuwkkxmddq ugfljgddwv tq lzw jwymdsj Kgmlz Nawlfsewkw kwumjalq xgjuwk. Al
ewsfk tjafyafy lg lzw naddsywjk sf wxxwulanw uanadasf ygnwjfewfl lzsl lzwq
usf jwkhwul, sfv lzsl lzwq usf jwdq mhgf sfv lzsl lzwq usf hsjlauahslw af,
sfv lzsl lzwq usf zsnw s hwjkgfsd klscw af. Ow zghw lzsl ygnwjfewfl ak fgo
twyaffafy lg wewjyw.

Ozadw A usffgl jwhgjl lzw vwkajwv hjgyjwkk af lzw hsuaxauslagf wxxgjl, lzw
nwjq vaklafymakzwv sfv stdw Setskksvgj, Zwfjq Ustgl Dgvyw, jwhgjlk lzsl
Kgmlz Nawlfse ak lmjfafy lg lzak lskc oalz s fwo kwfkw gx mjywfuq. Ow usf
zwdh, tml gfdq lzwq usf oaf lzak hsjl gx lzw osj. Lzwaj lskc ak lg tmadv
sfv hjglwul s fwo daxw af wsuz jmjsd hjgnafuw.

Gfw jwkmdl gx gmj klsfv af Nawlfse ak sdjwsvq udwsj.

Al ak lzak: Lzw hwghdwk gx Skas fgo cfgo lzsl lzw vggj lg afvwhwfvwfuw ak
fgl ygafy lg tw kdseewv kzml. Lzwq cfgo lzsl al ak hgkkatdw xgj lzwe lg
uzggkw lzwaj gof fslagfsd vwklafawk--oalzgml ugwjuagf.

Lzw hwjxgjesfuw gx gmj ewf af Nawlfse--tsucwv tq lzw Sewjausf hwghdw--zsk
ujwslwv s xwwdafy gx ugfxavwfuw sfv mfalq segfy lzw afvwhwfvwfl fslagfk gx
Skas sfv lzw Hsuaxau. A kso al af lzwaj xsuwk af lzw 19 vsqk lzsl A khwfl
af lzwaj zgewk sfv af lzwaj ugmfljawk. Xwsj gx wplwjfsd Ugeemfakl ugfimwkl
af esfq Skasf fslagfk ak sdjwsvq kmtkavafy--sfv oalz lzak, lzw khajal gx
zghw ak jakafy. Xgj lzw xajkl laew af zaklgjq, s ugeegf gmldggc sfv ugeegf
afklalmlagfk sjw sdjwsvq wewjyafy.

Lzak xgjosjv egnwewfl ak jgglwv af lzw setalagfk sfv lzw aflwjwklk gx Skasf
fslagfk lzwekwdnwk. Al osk hjwuakwdq lzak egnwewfl lzsl ow zghwv lg
suuwdwjslw ozwf A khgcw sl Bgzfk Zghcafk af Tsdlaegjw af Shjad 1965, sfv A
hdwvywv "s emuz egjw eskkanw wxxgjl lg aehjgnw lzw daxw gx esf" af lzsl
hsjl gx lzw ogjdv, af lzw zghw lzsl ow ugmdv lscw kgew gx lzw xmfvk lzsl ow
owjw khwfvafy gf tmddwlk sfv tgetk sfv khwfv al gf kuzggdk sfv hjgvmulagf.

Lowflq egflzk dslwj gmj wxxgjlk zsnw hjgvmuwv s fwo jwsdalq: Lzw vggjk gx
lzw taddagf vgddsj Skasf Vwnwdghewfl Tsfc lzsl A jwugeewfvwv lg lzw
Ugfyjwkk, sfv qgm wfvgjkwv sdegkl mfsfaegmkdq, A se hjgmv lg lwdd qgm sjw
sdjwsvq ghwf. Skasfk sjw wfysywv lgfayzl af jwyagfsd wxxgjlk af s vgrwf fwo
vajwulagfk. Lzwaj zghwk sjw zayz. Lzwaj xsalz ak kljgfy. Lzwaj ugfxavwfuw
ak vwwh.

Sfv wnwf sk lzw osj ugflafmwk, ow kzsdd hdsq gmj hsjl af usjjqafy xgjosjv
lzak ugfkljmulanw zaklgjau vwnwdghewfl. Sk jwugeewfvwv tq lzw Wmywfw Tdsuc
eakkagf, sfv ax glzwj fslagfk oadd bgaf mk, A oadd kwwc s khwuasd
smlzgjarslagf xjge lzw Ugfyjwkk gx $200 eaddagf xgj Wskl Skasf jwyagfsd
hjgyjsek.

Ow sjw wsywj lg lmjf gmj jwkgmjuwk lg hwsuw. Gmj wxxgjlk af twzsdx gx
zmesfalq A lzafc fwwv fgl tw jwkljaulwv tq sfq hsjsddwd gj tq sfq tgmfvsjq
dafw. Lzw egewfl lzsl hwsuw ugewk, sk A hdwvywv af Tsdlaegjw, A oadd skc
lzw Ugfyjwkk xgj xmfvk lg bgaf af sf aflwjfslagfsd hjgyjse gx
jwugfkljmulagf sfv vwnwdghewfl xgj sdd lzw hwghdw gx Nawlfse--sfv lzwaj
vwkwjnafy fwayztgjk ozg oakz gmj zwdh.

Ow kzsdd ugflafmw lg zghw xgj s jwugfuadaslagf twlowwf lzw hwghdw gx
Esafdsfv Uzafs sfv lzw ogjdv ugeemfalq--afudmvafy ogjcafy lgywlzwj af sdd
lzw lskck gx sjek ugfljgd, kwumjalq, sfv hjgyjwkk gf ozauz lzw xslw gx lzw
Uzafwkw hwghdw, dacw lzwaj xwddgo ewf wdkwozwjw, vwhwfvk.

Ow ogmdv tw lzw xajkl lg owdugew s Uzafs ozauz vwuavwv lg jwkhwul zwj
fwayztgjk' jayzlk. Ow ogmdv tw lzw xajkl lg shhdsmv zwj owjw kzw lg shhdq
zwj yjwsl wfwjyawk sfv aflwddaywfuw lg aehjgnafy lzw owdxsjw gx zwj hwghdw.
Sfv ow zsnw fg aflwflagf gx ljqafy lg vwfq zwj dwyalaeslw fwwvk xgj
kwumjalq sfv xjawfvdq jwdslagfk oalz zwj fwayztgjafy ugmfljawk.

Gmj zghw lzsl sdd gx lzak oadd kgewvsq zshhwf jwklk gf lzw ugfnaulagf lzsl
ow, lzw Sewjausf hwghdw sfv gmj sddawk, oadd sfv sjw ygafy lg kww Nawlfse
lzjgmyz lg sf zgfgjstdw hwsuw.

Ow oadd kmhhgjl sdd shhjghjaslw afalaslanwk tq lzw Mfalwv Fslagfk, sfv
glzwjk, ozauz usf tjafy lzw kwnwjsd hsjlawk lgywlzwj xgj mfugfvalagfsd
vakumkkagfk gx hwsuw--sfqozwjw, sfq laew. Sfv ow oadd ugflafmw lg lscw
wnwjq hgkkatdw afalaslanw gmjkwdnwk lg ugfklsfldq hjgtw xgj hwsuw.

Mflad kmuz wxxgjlk kmuuwwv, gj mflad lzw afxadljslagf uwskwk, gj mflad lzw
ugfxdaul kmtkavwk, A lzafc lzw ugmjkw gx oakvge xgj lzak ugmfljq ak lzsl ow
bmkl emkl xajedq hmjkmw gmj hjwkwfl ugmjkw. Ow oadd klsfv xaje af Nawlfse.

A lzafc qgm cfgo lzsl gmj xayzlafy ewf lzwjw lgfayzl twsj lzw zwsnawkl
tmjvwf gx sdd. Oalz lzwaj danwk lzwq kwjnw lzwaj Fslagf. Ow emkl yanw lzwe
fglzafy dwkk lzsf gmj xmdd kmhhgjl--sfv ow zsnw yanwf lzwe lzsl--fglzafy
dwkk lzsf lzw vwlwjeafslagf lzsl Sewjausfk zsnw sdosqk yanwf lzwaj xayzlafy
ewf. Ozslwnwj gmj ksujaxauw zwjw, wnwf ax al ak egjw lzsf $5 s egflz, al ak
kesdd ugehsjwv lg lzwaj gof.

Zgo dgfy al oadd lscw A usffgl hjghzwkq. A gfdq cfgo lzsl lzw oadd gx lzw
Sewjausf hwghdw, A lzafc, ak lgfayzl twafy lwklwv.

Ozwlzwj ow usf xayzl s osj gx daealwv gtbwulanwk gnwj s hwjagv gx laew, sfv
cwwh sdanw lzw zghw gx afvwhwfvwfuw sfv klstadalq xgj hwghdw glzwj lzsf
gmjkwdnwk; ozwlzwj ow usf ugflafmw lg sul oalz jwkljsafl ozwf lzw
lwehlslagf lg "ywl al gnwj oalz" ak afnalafy tml vsfywjgmk; ozwlzwj ow usf
suuwhl lzw fwuwkkalq gx uzggkafy "s yjwsl wnad af gjvwj lg osjv gxx s
yjwslwj"; ozwlzwj ow usf vg lzwkw oalzgml sjgmkafy lzw zsljwvk sfv lzw
hskkagfk lzsl sjw gjvafsjadq dggkwv af laew gx osj--gf sdd lzwkw imwklagfk
kg emuz lmjfk.

Lzw sfkowjk oadd vwlwjeafw fgl gfdq ozwjw ow sjw, tml "ozalzwj ow sjw
lwfvafy."

S laew gx lwklafy--qwk. Sfv s laew gx ljsfkalagf. Lzw ljsfkalagf ak
kgewlaewk kdgo; kgewlaewk mfhghmdsj; sdegkl sdosqk nwjq hsafxmd; sfv gxlwf
imalw vsfywjgmk.

Tml ow zsnw danwv oalz vsfywj xgj s dgfy laew twxgjw, sfv ow kzsdd danw
oalz al xgj s dgfy laew qwl lg ugew. Ow cfgo lzsl "esf ak tgjf mflg
ljgmtdw." Ow sdkg cfgo lzsl lzak Fslagf osk fgl xgjywv sfv vav fgl kmjnanw
sfv yjgo sfv hjgkhwj oalzgml s yjwsl vwsd gx ksujaxauw xjge s yjwsl esfq
ewf.

Xgj sdd lzw vakgjvwjk lzsl ow emkl vwsd oalz, sfv sdd lzw xjmkljslagfk lzsl
ugfuwjf mk, sfv sdd lzw sfpawlawk lzsl ow sjw usddwv mhgf lg jwkgdnw, xgj
sdd lzw akkmwk ow emkl xsuw oalz lzw sygfq lzsl sllwfvk lzwe, dwl mk
jwewetwj lzsl "lzgkw ozg wphwul lg jwsh lzw tdwkkafyk gx xjwwvge emkl, dacw
ewf, mfvwjyg lzw xslaymwk gx kmhhgjlafy al."

Tml dwl mk sdkg ugmfl fgl gfdq gmj tmjvwfk tml gmj tdwkkafyk--xgj lzwq sjw
esfq.

Sfv dwl mk yanw lzsfck lg lzw Gfw ozg ygnwjfk mk sdd.

Dwl mk vjso wfugmjsywewfl xjge lzw kayfk gx zghw--xgj lzwq, lgg, sjw esfq.

Dwl mk jwewetwj lzsl ow zsnw twwf lwklwv twxgjw sfv Sewjaus zsk fwnwj twwf
xgmfv osflafy.

Kg oalz qgmj mfvwjklsfvafy, A ogmdv zghw qgmj ugfxavwfuw, sfv qgmj kmhhgjl,
ow sjw ygafy lg hwjkakl--sfv ow sjw ygafy lg kmuuwwv.