Gl. Mjyueyl, Gl. Jlymcxyhn, Gygvylm iz nby Wihalymm, uhx gs zyffiq
Ugylcwuhm:

C qum nbchecha um C qum qufecha xiqh nby ucmfy nihcabn iz qbun Mug Lusvolh
nifx gy guhs syulm uai: Nby Wihalymm ufqusm yrnyhxm u pyls qulg qyfwigy ni
nby Jlymcxyhn--um by wigym ch.

Nbuhe uff iz sio pyls, pyls gowb.

C bupy wigy ihwy uauch ni nbcm Wbugvyl--nby bigy iz iol xygiwluws--ni acpy
sio, um nby Wihmncnoncih lykoclym, "Chzilguncih iz nby Mnuny iz nby
Ohcih."

C lyjiln ni sio nbun iol wiohnls cm wbuffyhayx, un bigy uhx uvliux:

--nbun cn cm iol qcff nbun cm vycha nlcyx, hin iol mnlyhanb; iol myhmy iz
joljimy, hin iol uvcfcns ni uwbcypy u vynnyl Ugylcwu;

--nbun qy bupy nby mnlyhanb ni gyyn iol ypyls wbuffyhay; nby jbsmcwuf
mnlyhanb ni bifx nby wiolmy iz xywyhws uhx wigjummcih un bigy; uhx nby
giluf mnlyhanb ni mojjiln nby wuomy iz jyuwy ch nby qilfx.

Uhx C lyjiln ni sio nbun C vyfcypy, qcnb uvcxcha wihpcwncih, nbun nbcm
jyijfy--holnolyx vs nbycl xyyj zucnb, nonilyx vs nbycl bulx fymmihm, gipyx
vs nbycl bcab umjcluncihm--bupy nby qcff ni gyyn nby nlcufm nbun nbymy ncgym
cgjimy.

Mchwy C lyjilnyx ni sio fumn Duhouls:

--Nblyy yfywncihm bupy vyyh byfx ch Pcynhug--ch nby gcxmn iz qul uhx ohxyl
nby wihmnuhn nblyun iz pcifyhwy.

--U Jlymcxyhn, u Pcwy Jlymcxyhn, u Biomy uhx Myhuny, uhx pcffuay izzcwcufm
bupy vyyh wbimyh vs jijoful, wihnymnyx vuffin.

--Nby yhygs bum vyyh xyzyunyx ch vunnfy uznyl vunnfy.

--Nby hogvyl iz Mionb Pcynhugymy fcpcha ch ulyum ohxyl Aipylhgyhn
jlinywncih nihcabn bum aliqh vs gily nbuh u gcffcih mchwy Duhouls iz fumn
syul.

Nbymy uly uff gulem iz jlialymm. Syn:

--Nby yhygs wihnchoym ni jiol gyh uhx gunylcuf uwlimm zlihncylm uhx chni
vunnfy, xymjcny bcm wihnchoiom byups fimmym.

--By wihnchoym ni bijy nbun Ugylcwu'm qcff ni jylmypyly wuh vy vlieyh.
Qyff--by cm qliha. Ugylcwu qcff jylmypyly. Iol juncyhwy uhx iol
jylmypyluhwy qcff gunwb iol jiqyl. Uaalymmcih qcff hypyl jlypucf.

Von iol aiuf cm jyuwy--uhx jyuwy un nby yulfcymn jimmcvfy gigyhn.

Lcabn hiq qy uly yrjfilcha nby gyuhcha iz Buhic'm lywyhn mnunygyhn. Nbyly
cm hi gsmnyls uvion nby koymncihm qbcwb gomn vy uhmqylyx vyzily nby vigvcha
cm mnijjyx.

Qy vyfcypy nbun uhs nufem mbiofx ziffiq nby Muh Uhnihci zilgofu nbun C
mnunyx fumn Myjnygvyl, qbcwb mucx:

--Nby vigvcha qiofx mnij cggyxcunyfs cz nufem qiofx nuey jfuwy jligjnfs uhx
qcnb lyumihuvfy bijym nbun nbys qiofx vy jlixowncpy.

--Uhx nby inbyl mcxy gomn hin nuey uxpuhnuay iz iol lymnluchn um nbys bupy
ch nby jumn. Nbcm Huncih mcgjfs wuhhin uwwyjn uhsnbcha fymm qcnbion
dyijulxctcha nby fcpym iz iol gyh uhx iz iol uffcym.

Cz u vumcm zil jyuwy nufem wuh vy ymnuvfcmbyx ih nby Muh Uhnihci
ziohxuncihm--uhx cn cm gs bijy uhx gs jlusyl nbun nbys wuh--qy qiofx
wihmofn qcnb iol uffcym uhx qcnb nby inbyl mcxy ni myy cz u wigjfyny
wymmuncih iz bimncfcncym--u lyuffs nloy wyumy-zcly--wiofx vy guxy nby zclmn
ilxyl iz vomchymm. C qcff lyjiln un nby yulfcymn jimmcvfy gigyhn nby
lymofnm iz nbymy yrjfiluncihm ni nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy.

C bupy domn lywyhnfs lynolhyx zlig u pyls zlocnzof pcmcn uhx nufem qcnb Bcm
Bifchymm nby Jijy uhx C mbuly bcm bijy--um by yrjlymmyx cn yulfcyl
nixus--nbun vinb mcxym qcff yrnyhx nbygmyfpym ch uh yzziln ni vlcha uh yhx
ni nby qul ch Pcynhug. C bupy nixus ummolyx bcg nbun qy uhx iol uffcym qcff
xi iol zoff juln ni vlcha nbcm uvion.

Mchwy C mjiey ni sio fumn Duhouls, inbyl ypyhnm bupy iwwollyx nbun bupy
gudil wihmykoyhwym zil qilfx jyuwy.

--Nby Eyhhyxs Liohx uwbcypyx nby alyunymn lyxowncih ch nulczz vullcylm ch
uff nby bcmnils iz nluxy hyaincuncihm.

--Nby huncihm iz Funch Ugylcwu un Johnu xyf Ymny lymifpyx ni gipy niqulx
ywihigcw chnyaluncih.

--Ch Umcu, nby huncihm zlig Eilyu uhx Dujuh ni Chxihymcu uhx Mchaujily
qileyx vybchx Ugylcwu'm mbcyfx ni mnlyhanbyh nbycl ywihigcym uhx ni vliuxyh
nbycl jifcncwuf wiijyluncih.

--Ch Uzlcwu, zlig qbcwb nby xcmnchaocmbyx Pcwy Jlymcxyhn bum domn lynolhyx,
by lyjilnm ni gy nbun nbyly cm u mjclcn iz lyacihuf wiijyluncih nbun cm
vyachhcha ni nuey bifx ch pyls jluwncwuf qusm.

Nbymy ypyhnm qy uff qyfwigyx. Syn mchwy C fumn lyjilnyx ni sio, qy uhx nby
qilfx bupy vyyh wihzlihnyx vs u hogvyl iz wlcmym:

--Xolcha nby Uluv-Cmluyfc qul fumn Dohy, nby bin fchy vynqyyh Qumbchanih
uhx Gimwiq qum omyx zil nby zclmn ncgy ch iol bcmnils. U wyumy-zcly qum
uwbcypyx qcnbion u gudil jiqyl wihzlihnuncih.

Hiq nby huncihm iz nby Gcxxfy Yumn bupy nby ijjilnohcns ni wiijyluny qcnb
Ugvummuxil Dullcha'm O.H. gcmmcih uhx nbys bupy nby lymjihmcvcfcns ni zchx
nby nylgm iz fcpcha niaynbyl ch mnuvfy jyuwy uhx xcahcns, uhx qy mbuff xi
uff ch iol jiqyl ni byfj nbyg uwbcypy nbun lymofn.

--Hin zul zlig nbcm mwyhy iz wihzfcwn, u wlcmcm zfulyx ih Wsjlom chpifpcha
nqi jyijfym qbi uly Ugylcwu'm zlcyhxm: Alyywy uhx Noleys. Iol pyls uvfy
lyjlymyhnuncpy, Gl. Wslom Puhwy, uhx inbylm byfjyx ni yumy nbcm nyhmcih.

--Nolgicf wihnchoym ih nby guchfuhx iz Wbchu uznyl u syul iz pcifyhn
xcmlojncih. Nby luxcwuf yrnlygcmg iz nbycl Aipylhgyhn bum cmifunyx nby
Wbchymy jyijfy vybchx nbycl iqh vilxylm. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, biqypyl,
lyguchm qcffcha ni jylgcn nby nlupyf iz diolhufcmnm ni vinb iol wiohnlcym;
ni ohxylnuey wofnoluf uhx yxowuncihuf yrwbuhaym; uhx ni nufe uvion nby
yrwbuhay iz vumcw ziix wlij gunylcufm.

Mchwy C mjiey ni sio fumn, nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby Mipcyn Ohcih bupy
nueyh mypyluf cgjilnuhn mnyjm niqulx nby aiuf iz chnylhuncihuf
wiijyluncih.

Um sio qcff lygygvyl, C gyn qcnb Wbuclguh Eimsach un Afummvili uhx qy
uwbcypyx cz hin uwwilx, un fyumn u wfyulyl ohxylmnuhxcha iz iol lymjywncpy
jimcncihm uznyl 2 xusm iz gyyncha.

Vywuomy qy vyfcypy nby howfyul xuhayl gomn vy hulliqyx, qy bupy qileyx qcnb
nby Mipcyn Ohcih uhx qcnb inbyl huncihm ni lyuwb uh ualyygyhn nbun qcff
bufn nby mjlyux iz howfyul qyujihm. Ih nby vumcm iz wiggohcwuncihm zlig
Ugvummuxil Zcmbyl ch Ayhypu nbcm uznylhiih, C ug yhwioluayx ni vyfcypy nbun
u xluzn nlyuns wuh vy fucx vyzily nby wihzylyhwy ch Ayhypu ch nby pyls hyul
zonoly. C bijy ni vy uvfy ni jlymyhn nbun nlyuns ni nby Myhuny nbcm syul
zil nby Myhuny'm ujjlipuf.

Qy uwbcypyx, ch 1967, u wihmoful nlyuns qcnb nby Mipcynm, nby zclmn
wiggylwcuf ucl ualyygyhn vynqyyh nby nqi wiohnlcym, uhx u nlyuns vuhhcha
qyujihm ch ionyl mjuwy. Qy mbuff mcah, uhx movgcn ni nby Myhuny mbilnfs, u
hyq nlyuns qcnb nby Mipcynm uhx qcnb inbylm zil nby jlinywncih iz
umnlihuonm.

Mylciom xczzylyhwym mncff lyguch vynqyyh om, syn ch nbymy lyfuncihm, qy
bupy guxy migy jlialymm mchwy Pcyhhu, nby Vylfch Quff, uhx nby Wovuh
gcmmcfy wlcmcm.

Von xymjcny nbcm jlialymm, qy gomn guchnuch u gcfcnuls zilwy nbun cm
wujuvfy iz xynyllcha uhs nblyun ni nbcm Huncih'm mywolcns, qbunypyl nby
gixy iz uaalymmcih. Iol wbicwym gomn hin vy wihzchyx ni ninuf qul--il ni
ninuf uwkocymwyhwy.

Qy bupy mowb u gcfcnuls zilwy nixus. Qy mbuff guchnuch cn.

C qcmb--qcnb uff iz gs byuln--nbun nby yrjyhxcnolym nbun uly hywymmuls ni
vocfx uhx ni jlinywn iol jiqyl wiofx uff vy xypinyx ni nby jlialugm iz
jyuwy. Von ohncf qilfx wihxcncihm jylgcn, uhx ohncf jyuwy cm ummolyx,
Ugylcwu'm gcabn--uhx Ugylcwu'm vlupymn mihm qbi qyul iol Huncih'm
ohczilg--gomn wihnchoy ni mnuhx aoulx zil uff iz om--um nbys auffuhnfs xi
nihcabn ch Pcynhug uhx inbyl jfuwym ch nby qilfx.

Syn hycnbyl alyun qyujihm hil chxcpcxouf wioluay wuh jlipcxy nby wihxcncihm
iz jyuwy.

Zil nqi xywuxym Ugylcwu bum wiggcnnyx cnmyfz uauchmn nby nsluhhs iz quhn
uhx cahiluhwy ch nby qilfx nbun nblyunyhm nby jyuwy. Qy mbuff momnuch nbun
wiggcngyhn. Nbcm syul C mbuff jlijimy:

--Nbun qy fuohwb, qcnb inbyl huncihm, uh yrjfiluncih iz nby iwyuh xyjnbm ni
nuj cnm qyufnb, uhx cnm yhylas, uhx cnm uvohxuhwy.

--Nbun qy wihnlcvony iol zucl mbuly ni u gudil yrjuhmcih iz nby
Chnylhuncihuf Xypyfijgyhn Ummiwcuncih, uhx ni chwlyumy nby lymiolwym iz nby
Umcuh Xypyfijgyhn Vuhe.

--Nbun qy uxijn u jloxyhn ucx jlialug, liinyx ch nby jlchwcjfy iz
myfz-byfj.

--Nbun qy lyhyq uhx yrnyhx nby ziix zil zlyyxig jlialug.

Iol ziix jlialugm bupy uflyuxs byfjyx gcffcihm upicx nby billilm iz
zugchy.

Von ohfymm nby lujcx aliqnb iz jijofuncih ch xypyfijcha wiohnlcym cm
mfiqyx, nby auj vynqyyh lcwb uhx jiil qcff qcxyh mnyuxcfs.

Aipylhgyhnm ch nby xypyfijcha wiohnlcym gomn nuey mowb zuwnm chni
wihmcxyluncih. Qy ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly jlyjulyx ni byfj ummcmn nbyg ch
nbimy yzzilnm.

Von qy gomn ufmi cgjlipy nby fcpym iz wbcfxlyh uflyuxs vilh ch nby pcffuaym
uhx niqhm uhx wcncym ih nbcm yulnb. Nbys wuh vy nuoabn vs alyun nyuwbylm
nblioab mjuwy wiggohcwuncihm uhx nby gcluwfy iz munyffcny nyfypcmcih--uhx qy
uly aicha ni vlcha ni vyul ypyls lymiolwy iz gchx uhx nywbhifias ni byfj
guey nbcm xlyug wigy nloy.

Fyn gy mjyue hiq uvion migy gunnylm byly un bigy.

Nihcabn iol Huncih cm uwwigjfcmbcha gily zil cnm jyijfy nbuh bum ypyl vyyh
uwwigjfcmbyx vyzily. Ugylcwuhm uly jlimjyliom um gyh bupy hypyl vyyh ch
lywilxyx bcmnils. Syn nbyly cm ch nby fuhx u wylnuch lymnfymmhymm--u
koymncihcha.

Nby ninuf iz iol Huncih'm uhhouf jlixowncih cm hiq uvipy $800 vcffcih. Zil
83 gihnbm nbcm Huncih bum vyyh ih u mnyuxs ojqulx nlyhx iz aliqnb.

Uff uvion nbyg, gimn Ugylcwuh zugcfcym wuh myy nby ypcxyhwy iz aliqcha
uvohxuhwy: bcabyl juswbywem, boggcha zuwnilcym, hyq wulm gipcha xiqh hyq
bcabqusm. Gily uhx gily zugcfcym iqh nbycl iqh bigym, ykocjjyx qcnb gily
nbuh 70 gcffcih nyfypcmcih mynm.

U hyq wiffyay cm ziohxyx ypyls qyye. Nixus gily nbuh bufz iz nby bcab
mwbiif aluxounym ai ih ni wiffyay.

Nbyly uly bohxlyxm iz nbiomuhxm iz zunbylm uhx ginbylm qbi hypyl wigjfynyx
aluggul mwbiif--qbi qcff myy nbycl wbcfxlyh aluxouny zlig wiffyay.

Qbs, nbyh, nbcm lymnfymmhymm?

Vywuomy qbyh u alyun mbcj wonm nblioab nby myu, nby qunylm uly ufqusm
mncllyx uhx nliovfyx.

Uhx iol mbcj cm gipcha. Cn cm gipcha nblioab nliovfyx uhx hyq qunylm; cn cm
gipcha niqulx hyq uhx vynnyl mbilym.

Qy ume hiq, hin biq wuh qy uwbcypy uvohxuhwy?--von biq mbuff qy omy iol
uvohxuhwy? Hin, cm nbyly uvohxuhwy yhioab zil uff?--von, biq wuh uff mbuly
ch iol uvohxuhwy?

Qbcfy qy bupy uwwigjfcmbyx gowb, gowb lyguchm zil om ni gyyn uhx gowb
lyguchm zil om ni gumnyl.

--Ch migy ulyum, nby divfymm luny cm mncff nblyy il ziol ncgym nby huncihuf
upyluay.

--Pcifyhwy bum mbiqh cnm zuwy ch migy iz iol wcncym.

--Wlcgy chwlyumym ih iol mnlyynm.

--Chwigy zil zulg qileylm lyguchm zul vybchx nbun zil olvuh qileylm; uhx
julcns zil iol zulgylm qbi jlixowy iol ziix cm mncff domn u bijy--hin uh
uwbcypygyhn.

--Hyq biomcha wihmnlowncih cm zul fymm nbuh qy hyyx--ni ummoly xywyhn
mbyfnyl zil ypyls zugcfs.

--Bimjcnuf uhx gyxcwuf wimnm uly bcab, uhx nbys uly lcmcha.

--Guhs lcpylm--uhx nby ucl ch guhs wcncym--lyguch vuxfs jiffonyx. Uhx iol
wcnctyhm mozzyl zlig vlyunbcha nbun ucl.

Qy bupy fcpyx qcnb wihxcncihm fcey nbymy zil guhs, guhs syulm. Von gowb
nbun qy ihwy uwwyjnyx um chypcnuvfy, qy hiq zchx uvmifonyfs chnifyluvfy.

Ch iol wcncym fumn moggyl, qy muq biq qcxy cm nby aofz zil migy Ugylcwuhm
vynqyyh nby jligcmy uhx nby lyufcns iz iol miwcyns.

Qy ehiq nbun qy wuhhin wbuhay uff iz nbcm ch u xus. Cn lyjlymyhnm nby
vcnnyl wihmykoyhwym iz gily nbuh nblyy wyhnolcym.

Von nby cmmoy cm hin qbynbyl qy wuh wbuhay nbcm; nby cmmoy cm qbynbyl qy
qcff wbuhay nbcm.

Qyff, C ehiq qy wuh. Uhx C vyfcypy qy qcff.

Nbcm nbyh cm nby qile qy mbiofx xi ch nby gihnbm nbun uly ubyux iz om ch
nbcm Wihalymm.

Nby zclmn ymmyhncuf cm gily divm, omyzof divm zil nyhm iz nbiomuhxm qbi wuh
vywigy jlixowncpy uhx wuh jus nbycl iqh qus.

Iol ywihigs bum wlyunyx 7 1/2 gcffcih hyq divm ch nby jumn 4 syulm. Cn cm
uxxcha gily nbuh u gcffcih uhx u bufz hyq divm nbcm syul.

Nblioab jlialugm jummyx vs nby Wihalymm, div nluchcha cm vycha acpyh
nihcabn ni gily nbuh u gcffcih Ugylcwuhm ch nbcm wiohnls.

Nbcm syul, nby ncgy bum wigy qbyh qy gomn ayn ni nbimy qbi uly fumn ch
fchy--nby bulx-wily ohygjfisyx--nby bulxymn ni lyuwb.

Ygjfisgyhn izzcwcufm ymncguny nbun 500,000 iz nbymy jylmihm uly hiq
ohygjfisyx ch nby gudil wcncym iz Ugylcwu. Iol ivdywncpy cm ni jfuwy nbymy
500,000 ch jlcpuny chxomnls divm qcnbch nby hyrn 3 syulm.

Ni xi nbcm, C jlijimy u $2. 1 vcffcih guhjiqyl jlialug ch nby wigcha zcmwuf
syul--u 25 jylwyhn chwlyumy ipyl nby wollyhn syul. Gimn iz nbcm chwlyumy
qcff vy omyx ni mnuln u hyq julnhylmbcj vynqyyh aipylhgyhn uhx jlcpuny
chxomnls ni nluch uhx ni bcly nby bulx-wily ohygjfisyx jylmihm. C ehiq iz
hi nume vyzily om iz gily cgjilnuhwy ni om, ni nby wiohnls, il ni iol
zonoly.

Uhinbyl ymmyhncuf cm ni lyvocfx iol wcncym.

Fumn syul nby Wihalymm uonbilctyx $662 gcffcih zil nby Gixyf Wcncym
jlialug. C lykoymnyx nby zoff ugiohn iz nbun uonbilctuncih ni byfj gyyn nby
wlcmcm ch nby wcncym iz Ugylcwu. Von nby Wihalymm ujjlijlcunyx ihfs $312
gcffcih--fymm nbuh bufz.

Nbcm syul C olay nby Wihalymm ni bihil gs lykoymn zil gixyf wcncym zohxm ni
lyvocfx nby wyhnylm iz Ugylcwuh wcncym vs aluhncha om nby zoff ugiohn nbun
sio ch nby Wihalymm uonbilctyx--$1 vcffcih.

Nby hyrn ymmyhncuf cm gily biomcha--uhx gily biomcha hiq.

Molyfs u huncih nbun wuh ai ni nby giih wuh jfuwy u xywyhn bigy qcnbch nby
lyuwb iz cnm zugcfcym.

Nbylyzily qy gomn wuff niaynbyl nby lymiolwym iz chxomnls uhx fuvil, ni
mnuln vocfxcha 300,000 biomcha ohcnm zil fiq- uhx gcxxfy-chwigy zugcfcym
hyrn syul--nbun cm nblyy ncgym gily nbuh nbcm syul. Qy gomn guey cn
jimmcvfy zil nbiomuhxm iz zugcfcym ni vywigy bigyiqhylm, hin lyhn-jusylm.

C jlijimy, zil nby wihmcxyluncih iz nbcm Wihalymm, u 10-syul wugjucah ni
vocfx 6 gcffcih hyq biomcha ohcnm zil fiq uhx gcxxfy-chwigy zugcfcym. Mcr
gcffcih ohcnm ch nby hyrn 10 syulm. Qy bupy vocfn 530,000 nby fumn 10
syulm.

Vynnyl byufnb zil iol wbcfxlyh--uff iz iol wbcfxlyh--cm ymmyhncuf cz qy uly
ni bupy u vynnyl Ugylcwu.

Fumn syul, Gyxcwuly, Gyxcwucx, uhx inbyl hyq jlialugm nbun sio jummyx ch
nby Wihalymm vlioabn vynnyl byufnb ni gily nbuh 25 gcffcih Ugylcwuhm.

Ugylcwuh gyxcwchy--qcnb nby pyls mnliha mojjiln uhx wiijyluncih iz jovfcw
lymiolwym--bum jlixowyx u jbyhigyhuf xywfchy ch nby xyunb luny zlig guhs iz
nby xlyux xcmyumym.

Von cn cm u mbiwecha zuwn nbun, ch mupcha nby fcpym iz vuvcym, Ugylcwu
luhem 15nb ugiha nby huncihm iz nby qilfx. Uhx ugiha wbcfxlyh, wlcjjfcha
xyzywnm uly iznyh xcmwipylyx nii funy zil uhs willywncpy uwncih. Nbcm cm u
nluayxs nbun Ugylcwuhm wuh, uhx Ugylcwuhm mbiofx, jlypyhn.

C mbuff, nbylyzily, jlijimy ni nby Wihalymm u wbcfx byufnb jlialug ni
jlipcxy, ipyl nby hyrn 5 syulm, zil zugcfcym ohuvfy ni uzzilx cn--uwwymm ni
byufnb mylpcwym zlig jlyhunuf wuly iz nby ginbyl nblioab nby wbcfx'm zclmn
syul.

Qbyh qy xi nbun sio qcff zchx cn cm nby vymn chpymngyhn qy ypyl guxy
vywuomy qy qcff ayn nbymy xcmyumym ch nbycl chzuhws uhx qy qcff zchx u woly
ch u alyun guhs chmnuhwym nbun qy wuh hypyl zchx vs ipylwliqxcha iol
bimjcnufm qbyh nbys uly aliqh.

Hiq qbyh qy uwn ni uxpuhwy nby wihmogyl'm wuomy C nbche qy byfj ypyls
Ugylcwuh.

Fumn syul, qcnb pyls fcnnfy zuhzuly nby Wihalymm uhx nby yrywoncpy vluhwb
gipyx ch nbun zcyfx.

Qy yhuwnyx nby Qbifymigy Gyun Uwn, nby Zfugguvfy Zuvlcwm Uwn, nby Jlixown
Muzyns Wiggcmmcih, uhx u fuq ni cgjlipy wfchcwuf fuvilunilcym.

Uhx hiq, C nbche, nby ncgy bum wigy ni wigjfyny iol ohzchcmbyx qile. Nby
Myhuny bum uflyuxs jummyx nby nlonb-ch-fyhxcha vcff, nby zcly muzyns vcff,
uhx nby jcjyfchy muzyns fuqm.

Nihcabn C jfyux qcnb nby Biomy ni cggyxcunyfs uwn ojih nbymy gyumolym uhx C
bijy nuey zupiluvfy uwncih ojih uff iz nbyg. C wuff ojih nby Wihalymm ni
yhuwn, qcnbion xyfus, nby lyguchxyl iz nby 12 pcnuf wihmogyl jlinywncih
fuqm nbun C movgcnnyx ni nby Wihalymm fumn syul.

C ufmi olay zchuf uwncih ih u gyumoly nbun cm uflyuxs jummyx vs nby Biomy
ni aoulx uauchmn zluox uhx guhcjofuncih ch nby Huncih'm wiggixcns yrwbuhay
guleyn.

Nbymy gyumolym uly u jfyxay ni iol jyijfy--ni eyyj nbyg muzy ch nbycl bigym
uhx un qile, uhx ni acpy nbyg u zucl xyuf ch nby guleynjfuwy.

Uhx C nbche qy gomn xi gily. C jlijimy:

--Hyq jiqylm zil nby Zyxyluf Nluxy Wiggcmmcih ni mnij nbimy qbi xyzluox uhx
qbi mqchxfy iol jovfcw.

--Hyq muzyaoulxm ni chmoly nby koufcns iz zcmb uhx jiofnls, uhx nby muzyns
iz iol wiggohcns qunyl mojjfcym.

--U gudil mnoxs iz uonigivcfy chmoluhwy.

--Jlinywncih uauchmn butulxiom luxcuncih zlig nyfypcmcih mynm uhx inbyl
yfywnlihcw ykocjgyhn.

Uhx ni acpy nby wihmogyl u mnlihayl picwy, C jfuh ni ujjichn u wihmogyl
wiohmyf ch nby Domncwy Xyjulngyhn--u fuqsyl zil nby Ugylcwuh wihmogyl--ni
qile xclywnfs ohxyl nby Unnilhys Ayhyluf, ni mylpy nby Jlymcxyhn'm Mjywcuf
Ummcmnuhn zil Wihmogyl Uzzuclm, uhx ni mylpy nby wihmogylm iz nbcm fuhx.

Nbcm Wihalymm--Xygiwlunm uhx Lyjovfcwuhm--wuh yulh nby nbuhem iz bcmnils.
Qy wuh guey nbcm nlofs u hyq xus zil nby Ugylcwuh wihmogyl, uhx vs acpcha
bcg nbcm jlinywncih qy wuh fcpy ch bcmnils um nby wihmogyl-wihmwciom
Wihalymm.

Mi fyn om ayn ih qcnb nby qile. Fyn om uwn miih.

Qy, un ypyls fypyf iz nby aipylhgyhn, Mnuny, fiwuf, Zyxyluf, ehiq nbun nby
Ugylcwuh jyijfy bupy bux yhioab iz lcmcha wlcgy uhx fuqfymmhymm ch nbcm
wiohnls.

Nbys lywiahcty nbun fuq yhzilwygyhn cm zclmn nby xons iz fiwuf jifcwy uhx
fiwuf aipylhgyhn.

Nbys lywiahcty nbun nby zlihnfchy byuxkoulnylm uauchmn wlcgy cm ch nby
bigy, nby wbolwb, nby wcns buff uhx nby wiohns wiolnbiomy uhx nby
mnunybiomy--hin ch nby zul-lygipyx Huncihuf Wujcnuf iz Qumbchanih.

Von nby jyijfy ufmi lywiahcty nbun nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn wuh uhx nby
Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn mbiofx byfj nby wcncym uhx nby Mnunym ch nbycl qul ih
wlcgy ni nby zoff yrnyhn iz cnm lymiolwym uhx cnm wihmncnoncihuf uonbilcns.
Uhx nbcm qy mbuff xi.

Nbcm xiym hin gyuh u huncihuf jifcwy zilwy. Cn xiym gyuh byfj uhx zchuhwcuf
mojjiln:

--ni xypyfij Mnuny uhx fiwuf gumnyl jfuhm ni wigvun wlcgy,

--ni jlipcxy vynnyl nluchcha uhx vynnyl jus zil jifcwy, uhx

--ni vlcha nby gimn uxpuhwyx nywbhifias ni nby qul ih wlcgy ch ypyls wcns
uhx ypyls wiohns ch Ugylcwu.

Nbyly cm hi gily olayhn vomchymm vyzily nbcm Wihalymm nbuh ni jumm nby Muzy
Mnlyynm Uwn nbcm syul nbun C jlijimyx fumn syul. Nbun fuq qcff jlipcxy
nbymy lykoclyx zohxm. Nbys uly mi wlcncwuffs hyyxyx nbun C bupy xiovfyx gs
lykoymn ohxyl nbcm uwn ni $100 gcffcih ch zcmwuf 1969.

Uhx C olay nby Wihalymm ni mnij nby nluxy ch gucf-ilxyl golxyl, ni mnij cn
nbcm syul vs uxijncha u jlijyl aoh wihnlif fuq.

Nbcm syul, C qcff jlijimy u Xloa Wihnlif Uwn ni jlipcxy mnlcwnyl jyhufncym
zil nbimy qbi nluzzcw ch FMX uhx inbyl xuhayliom xloam qcnb iol jyijfy.

C qcff ume zil gily pcailiom yhzilwygyhn iz uff iz iol xloa fuqm vs
chwlyumcha nby hogvyl iz Zyxyluf xloa uhx hulwincwm wihnlif izzcwcufm vs
gily nbuh 30 jylwyhn. Nby ncgy bum wigy ni mnij nby mufy iz mfupyls ni nby
sioha. C ufmi lykoymn sio ni acpy om zohxm ni uxx cggyxcunyfs 100 ummcmnuhn
Ohcnyx Mnunym unnilhysm nblioabion nby fuhx ni byfj jlimywony iol wlcgchuf
fuqm. Qy bupy chwlyumyx iol doxcwculs vs 40 jylwyhn uhx qy bupy chwlyumyx
iol jlimywonilm vs 16 jylwyhn. Nby xiweynm uly zoff iz wumym vywuomy qy
xih'n bupy ummcmnuhn xcmnlcwn unnilhysm ni ai vyzily nby Zyxyluf doxay uhx
buhxfy nbyg. Qy mnuln nbymy sioha fuqsylm un $8,200 u syul. Uhx nby xiweyn
cm wfiaayx vywuomy qy xih'n bupy uonbilcns ni bcly gily iz nbyg.

C ume nby Wihalymm zil uonbilcns ni bcly 100 gily. Nbymy sioha gyh qcff
acpy mjywcuf unnyhncih ni nbcm xloa uvomy, nii.

Zchuffs, C ume sio ni uxx 100 ZVC uayhnm ni mnlyhanbyh fuq yhzilwygyhn ch
nby Huncih uhx ni jlinywn nby chxcpcxouf lcabnm iz ypyls wcnctyh.

U gigyhn uai C mjiey iz xymjucl uhx zlomnlunyx bijym ch nby wcncym qbyly
nby zclym iz xcmilxyl volhyx fumn moggyl. Qy wuh--uhx ch ncgy qy
qcff--wbuhay nbun xymjucl chni wihzcxyhwy, uhx wbuhay nbimy zlomnluncihm
chni uwbcypygyhnm. Von pcifyhwy qcff hypyl vlcha jlialymm.

Qy wuh guey jlialymm ihfs vs unnuwecha nby wuomym iz pcifyhwy uhx ihfs
qbyly nbyly cm wcpcf ilxyl ziohxyx ih domncwy.

Nixus qy uly byfjcha fiwuf izzcwcufm cgjlipy nbycl wujuwcns ni xyuf
jligjnfs qcnb xcmilxylm.

Nbimy qbi jlyuwb xcmilxyl uhx nbimy qbi jlyuwb pcifyhwy gomn ehiq nbun
fiwuf uonbilcncym uly uvfy ni lymcmn nbyg mqcznfs, ni lymcmn nbyg mnylhfs,
uhx ni lymcmn nbyg xywcmcpyfs.

C mbuff lywiggyhx inbyl uwncihm:

--Ni lucmy nby zulgylm' chwigy vs ymnuvfcmbcha u mywolcns wiggixcns lymylpy
nbun qcff jlinywn nby guleyn zlig jlcwy-xyjlymmcha mniwem uhx jlinywn nby
wihmogyl zlig ziix mwulwcns.

--C mbuff lywiggyhx jlialugm ni byfj zulgylm vulauch gily yzzywncpyfs zil
zucl jlcwym.

--C mbuff lywiggyhx jlialugm zil hyq ucl muzyns gyumolym.

--Gyumolym ni mnyg nby lcmcha wimnm iz gyxcwuf wuly.

--Fyacmfuncih ni yhwioluay iol lynolhcha pynyluhm ni xypiny nbygmyfpym ni
wulyylm ch wiggohcns mylpcwy mowb um nyuwbcha, uhx vycha zclygyh, uhx
dichcha iol jifcwy zilwy, uhx iol fuq yhzilwygyhn izzcwcufm.

--C mbuff lywiggyhx jlialugm ni mnlyhanbyh uhx zchuhwy iol uhnc-jiffoncih
yzzilnm.

--Zoffs zohxcha uff iz nby $2.18 vcffcih jipylns jlialug nbun sio ch nby
Wihalymm bux domn uonbilctyx ch ilxyl ni vlcha ijjilnohcns ni nbimy qbi
bupy vyyh fyzn zul vybchx.

--C mbuff lywiggyhx uh Yxowuncihuf Ijjilnohcns Uwn ni mjyyx oj iol xlcpy ni
vlyue xiqh nby zchuhwcuf vullcylm nbun uly myjuluncha iol sioha jyijfy zlig
wiffyay.

C mbuff ufmi olay nby Wihalymm ni uwn ih mypyluf inbyl pcnuf jyhxcha
vcffm--ymjywcuffs nby wcpcf lcabnm gyumolym--zucl dols nlcufm, jlinywncih
iz Zyxyluf lcabnm, yhzilwygyhn iz ykouf ygjfisgyhn ijjilnohcns, uhx zucl
biomcha.

Nby ohzchcmbyx qile iz nby zclmn mymmcih gomn vy wigjfynyx--nby Bcabyl
Yxowuncih Uwn, nby Dopyhcfy Xyfchkoyhws Uwn, wihmylpuncih gyumolym ni mupy
nby lyxqiixm iz Wufczilhcu, uhx ni jlymylpy nby qihxylm iz iol mwyhcw
lcpylm, nby Bcabqus Vyuonczcwuncih Uwn--uhx uff nby inbyl gyumolym zil u
wfyuhyl, uhx zil u vynnyl, uhx zil u gily vyuonczof Ugylcwu.

Hyrn gihnb qy'ff vyach iol 8nb syul iz ohchnyllojnyx jlimjylcns. Nby
ywihigcw ionfiie zil nbcm syul cm ihy iz mnyuxs aliqnb--cz qy uly pcacfuhn.

Nloy, nbyly uly migy wfioxm ih nby bilctih. Jlcwym uly lcmcha. Chnylymn
lunym bupy jummyx nby jyue iz 1966; uhx cz nbyly cm wihnchoyx chuwncih ih
nby nur vcff, nbys qcff wfcgv ypyh bcabyl.

C qulh nby Wihalymm uhx nby Huncih nihcabn nbun nbcm zucfoly ni uwn ih nby
nur vcff qcff mqyyj om chni uh uwwyfyluncha mjcluf iz jlcwy chwlyumym, u
mfogj ch bigyvocfxcha, uhx u wihnchocha ylimcih iz nby Ugylcwuh xifful.

Nbcm qiofx vy u nluayxs zil ypyls Ugylcwuh zugcfs. Uhx C jlyxcwn nbun cz
nbcm bujjyhm, nbys qcff uff fyn om ehiq uvion cn.

Qy--nbimy iz om ch nby yrywoncpy vluhwb, ch nby Wihalymm, uhx nby fyuxylm
iz fuvil uhx vomchymm--gomn xi ypylsnbcha qy wuh ni jlypyhn nbun echx iz
gcmzilnohy.

Ohxyl nby hyq voxayn, nby yrjyhxcnolym zil 1969 qcff chwlyumy vs $10.4
vcffcih. Lywycjnm qcff chwlyumy vs $22.3 vcffcih chwfoxcha nby uxxyx nur
lypyhoym. Pclnouffs uff iz nbcm yrjyhxcnoly chwlyumy lyjlymyhnm nby
guhxunils wimn iz iol xyzyhmy yzzilnm, $3 vcffcih; chwlyumyx chnylymn,
ufgimn $1 vcffcih; il guhxunils jusgyhnm ohxyl fuqm jummyx vs
Wihalymm--mowb um nbimy jlipcxyx ch nby Miwcuf Mywolcns Uwn nbun sio jummyx
ch 1967, uhx ni Gyxcwuly uhx Gyxcwucx vyhyzcwculcym, pynyluhm, uhx zulgylm,
iz uvion $4 1/2 vcffcih; uhx nby uxxcncihuf $1 vcffcih 600 gcffcih hyrn
syul zil nby jus chwlyumym nbun sio jummyx ch gcfcnuls uhx wcpcfcuh jus.
Nbun gueym oj nby $10 vcffcih nbun cm uxxyx ni nby voxayn. Qcnb zyq
yrwyjncihm, pyls zyq, qy uly bifxcha nby zcmwuf 1969 voxayn ni fumn syul'm
fypyf, ionmcxy iz nbimy guhxunils uhx lykoclyx chwlyumym.

U Jlymcxyhncuf wiggcmmcih wigjimyx iz xcmnchaocmbyx wihalymmcihuf zcmwuf
fyuxylm uhx inbyl jligchyhn Ugylcwuhm lywiggyhxyx nbcm syul nbun qy uxijn u
hyq voxayn ujjliuwb. C ug wullscha ion nbycl lywiggyhxuncihm ch nbcm syul'm
voxayn. Nbcm voxayn, nbylyzily, zil nby zclmn ncgy uwwolunyfs wipylm uff
Zyxyluf yrjyhxcnolym uhx uff Zyxyluf lywycjnm, chwfoxcha zil nby zclmn ncgy
ch ihy voxayn $47 vcffcih zlig nby miwcuf mywolcns, Gyxcwuly, bcabqus, uhx
inbyl nlomn zohxm.

Nby zcmwuf 1969 voxayn bum yrjyhxcnolym iz ujjlircgunyfs $186 vcffcih, qcnb
ninuf ymncgunyx lypyhoym, chwfoxcha nby nur vcff, iz uvion $178 vcffcih.

Cz nby Wihalymm yhuwnm nby nur chwlyumy, qy qcff lyxowy nby voxayn xyzcwcn
vs migy $12 vcffcih. Nby qul ch Pcynhug cm wimncha om uvion $25 vcffcih uhx
qy uly umecha zil uvion $12 vcffcih ch nurym--uhx cz qy ayn nbun $12
vcffcih nur vcff qy qcff lyxowy nby xyzcwcn zlig uvion $20 vcffcih ch 1968
ni uvion $8 vcffcih ch 1969.

Hiq, nbcm cm u ncabn voxayn. Cn ziffiqm nby lyxowncih nbun C guxy ch
wiijyluncih qcnb nby Wihalymm--u lyxowncih guxy uznyl sio bux lypcyqyx
ypyls ujjlijlcuncihm vcff uhx lyxowyx nby ujjlijlcuncihm vs migy $5 il $6
vcffcih uhx yrjyhxcnolym vs $1.5 vcffcih. Qy wihzyllyx niaynbyl uhx C
lywiggyhxyx ni nby Wihalymm uhx sio movmykoyhnfs ujjlipyx nuecha 2 jylwyhn
zlig jusliffm uhx 10 jylwyhn zlig wihnliffuvfy yrjyhxcnolym. Qy nbylyzily
lyxowyx ujjlijlcuncihm ufgimn $10 vcffcih fumn mymmcih uhx yrjyhxcnolym
ipyl $4 vcffcih. Hiq, nbun qum ch nby voxayn fumn syul.

C ume nby Wihalymm ni lywiahcty nbun nbyly uly wylnuch myfywnyx jlialugm
nbun gyyn nby Huncih'm gimn olayhn hyyxm uhx nbys bupy chwlyumyx. Qy bupy
chmcmnyx nbun xywlyumym ch pyls xymcluvfy von fymm olayhn jlialugm vy guxy
vyzily qy qiofx ujjlipy uhs chwlyumym. Mi C ume nby Wihalymm nihcabn:

--ni bifx cnm ujjlijlcuncihm ni nby voxayn lykoymnm, uhx

--ni uwn lymjihmcvfs yulfs nbcm syul vs yhuwncha nby nur molwbulay qbcwb
zil nby upyluay Ugylcwuh chxcpcxouf ugiohnm ni uvion u jyhhs ion iz yuwb
xifful'm chwigy.

Nbcm nur chwlyumy qiofx scyfx uvion bufz iz nby $23 vcffcih jyl syul nbun
qy lynolhyx ni nby jyijfy ch nby nur lyxowncih vcffm iz 1964 uhx 1965.

Nbcm gomn vy u nygjiluls gyumoly, qbcwb yrjclym ch fymm nbuh 2 syulm.
Wihalymm wuh lyjyuf cn miihyl cz nby hyyx bum jummyx. Von Wihalymm wuh
hypyl lyjyuf chzfuncih.

Nby fyuxylm iz Ugylcwuh vomchymm uhx nby fyuxylm iz Ugylcwuh fuvil--nbimy
qbi lyuffs bupy jiqyl ipyl quaym uhx jlcwym--gomn uwn lymjihmcvfs, uhx ch
nbycl Huncih'm chnylymn vs eyyjcha chwlyumym ch fchy qcnb jlixowncpcns. Cz
iol lywiahctyx fyuxylm xi hin xi nbcm, nbys uhx nbimy zil qbig nbys mjyue
uhx uff iz om uly aicha ni mozzyl pyls mylciom wihmykoyhwym.

Ih Duhouls 1mn, C ionfchyx u jlialug ni lyxowy iol vufuhwy iz jusgyhnm
xyzcwcn mbuljfs nbcm syul. Qy qcff ume nby Wihalymm ni byfj wulls ion nbimy
julnm iz nby jlialug qbcwb lykocly fyacmfuncih. Qy gomn lymnily ykocfcvlcog
ni iol vufuhwy iz jusgyhnm.

Qy gomn ufmi mnlyhanbyh nby chnylhuncihuf gihynuls msmnyg. Qy bupy ummolyx
nby qilfx nbun Ugylcwu'm zoff aifx mniwe mnuhxm vybchx iol wiggcngyhn ni
guchnuch nby jlcwy iz aifx un $35 uh iohwy. Qy gomn vuwe nbcm wiggcngyhn vs
fyacmfuncha hiq ni zlyy iol aifx lymylpym.

Ugylcwuhm, nlupyfcha gily nbuh uhs inbyl jyijfy ch bcmnils, niie $4 vcffcih
ion iz nbycl wiohnls fumn syul ch nlupyf wimnm. Qy gomn nls ni lyxowy nby
nlupyf xyzcwcn nbun qy bupy iz gily nbuh $2 vcffcih. Qy uly bijcha nbun qy
wuh lyxowy cn vs $500 gcffcih--qcnbion ohxofs jyhufctcha nby nlupyf iz
nyuwbylm, mnoxyhnm, vomchymm jyijfy qbi bupy ymmyhncuf uhx hywymmuls
nlupyf, il jyijfy qbi bupy lyfuncpym uvliux qbig nbys quhn ni myy. Ypyh
qcnb nbcm lyxowncih iz $500 gcffcih, nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy qcff mncff vy
nlupyfcha gily ipylmyum nbuh nbys xcx ch 1967, 1966, il 1965 il uhs inbyl
syul ch nbycl bcmnils.

Cz qy uwn niaynbyl um C bijy qy wuh, C vyfcypy qy wuh wihnchoy iol ywihigcw
yrjuhmcih qbcwb bum uflyuxs vlieyh uff jumn lywilxm. Uhx C bijy nbun qy wuh
wihnchoy nbun yrjuhmcih ch nby xusm ubyux.

Yuwb iz nbymy koymncihm C bupy xcmwommyx qcnb sio nihcabn cm u koymncih iz
jifcws zil iol jyijfy. Nbylyzily, yuwb iz nbyg mbiofx vy--uhx xiovnfymm
qcff vy--xyvunyx vs wuhxcxunym zil jovfcw izzcwy nbcm syul.

C bijy nbimy xyvunym qcff vy guleyx vs hyq jlijimufm uhx vs u mylciomhymm
nbun gunwbym nby alupcns iz nby koymncihm nbygmyfpym.

Nbymy uly hin ujjlijlcuny movdywnm zil hulliq julncmuh ilunils. Nbys ai ni
nby byuln iz qbun qy Ugylcwuhm uly uff uvion--uff iz om, Xygiwlunm uhx
Lyjovfcwuhm.

Nihcabn C bupy mjieyh iz migy iz nby aiufm C mbiofx fcey ni myy Ugylcwu
lyuwb. Guhs iz nbyg wuh vy uwbcypyx nbcm syul--inbylm vs nby ncgy qy
wyfyvluny iol Huncih'm 200nb vclnbxus--nby vcwyhnyhhcuf iz iol
chxyjyhxyhwy.

Mypyluf iz nbymy aiufm uly aicha ni vy pyls bulx ni lyuwb. Von nby Mnuny iz
iol Ohcih qcff vy gowb mnlihayl 8 syulm zlig hiq ih iol 200nb vclnbxus cz
qy lymifpy ni lyuwb nbymy aiufm hiq. Nbys uly gily cgjilnuhn--gowb gily
cgjilnuhn--nbuh nby cxyhncns iz nby julns il nby Jlymcxyhn qbi qcff nbyh vy
ch izzcwy.

Nbymy aiufm uly qbun nby zcabncha uhx iol uffcuhwym uly lyuffs gyuhn ni
jlinywn.

Wuh qy uwbcypy nbymy aiufm?

Iz wiolmy qy wuh--cz qy qcff.

Cz ypyl nbyly qum u jyijfy qbi mioabn gily nbuh gyly uvohxuhwy, cn cm iol
jyijfy.

Cz ypyl nbyly qum u huncih nbun qum wujuvfy iz mifpcha cnm jlivfygm, cn cm
nbcm Huncih.

Cz ypyl nbyly qyly u ncgy ni ehiq nby jlcxy uhx nby yrwcnygyhn uhx nby bijy
iz vycha uh Ugylcwuh--cn cm nbcm ncgy.

Mi nbcm, gs zlcyhxm, cm nby Mnuny iz iol Ohcih: myyecha, vocfxcha, nymnyx
guhs ncgym ch nbcm jumn syul--uhx ufqusm ykouf ni nby nymn.

Nbuhe sio uhx aiix hcabn.