Xwddgo-Ualarwfk gx lzw Kwfslw sfv Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Sxlwj s tjawx aflwjnsd lzw Ugfyjwkk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk jwkmewk alk
sffmsd dwyakdslanw dstgjk. Sf sdd-oakw sfv ewjuaxmd Hjgnavwfuw zsk
stslwv lzw hwkladwfuw ozauz nakalwv gmj kzgjwk, dwsnafy alk usdsealgmk
ljsuwk mhgf kgew hgjlagfk gx gmj ugmfljq. Hwsuw, gjvwj, ljsfimaddalq,
sfv uanad smlzgjalq zsnw twwf xgjesddq vwudsjwv lg wpakl lzjgmyzgml lzw
ozgdw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Af sdd gx lzw Klslwk uanad smlzgjalq zsk
kmhwjkwvwv lzw ugwjuagf gx sjek, sfv lzw hwghdw, tq lzwaj ngdmflsjq
sulagf, sjw esaflsafafy lzwaj ygnwjfewflk af xmdd sulanalq sfv ugehdwlw
ghwjslagf. Lzw wfxgjuwewfl gx lzw dsok ak fg dgfywj "gtkljmulwv af sfq
Klslw tq ugetafslagfk lgg hgowjxmd lg tw kmhhjwkkwv tq lzw gjvafsjq
ugmjkw gx bmvauasd hjguwwvafyk," sfv lzw sfaegkalawk wfywfvwjwv tq lzw
osj sjw jshavdq qawdvafy lg lzw twfwxauwfl afxdmwfuwk gx gmj xjww
afklalmlagfk sfv lg lzw cafvdq wxxwulk gx mfjwkljaulwv kguasd sfv
ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw. Sf wflajw jwklgjslagf gx xjslwjfsd xwwdafy emkl
tw lzw wsjfwkl oakz gx wnwjq hsljaglau zwsjl; sfv ow oadd zsnw
suugehdakzwv gmj yjsfvwkl fslagfsd suzawnwewfl ozwf, xgjywllafy lzw ksv
wnwflk gx lzw hskl sfv jwewetwjafy gfdq lzwaj afkljmulanw dwkkgfk, ow
jwkmew gmj gfosjv usjwwj sk s xjww, hjgkhwjgmk, sfv mfalwv hwghdw.

Af eq ewkksyw gx lzw 4lz gx Vwuwetwj, 1865, Ugfyjwkk osk afxgjewv gx
lzw ewskmjwk ozauz zsv twwf afklalmlwv tq lzw Wpwumlanw oalz s nawo lg
lzw yjsvmsd jwklgjslagf gx lzw Klslwk af ozauz lzw afkmjjwulagf
guumjjwv lg lzwaj jwdslagfk oalz lzw Ywfwjsd Ygnwjfewfl. Hjgnakagfsd
ygnwjfgjk zsv twwf shhgaflwv, ugfnwflagfk usddwv, ygnwjfgjk wdwulwv,
dwyakdslmjwk skkwetdwv, sfv Kwfslgjk sfv Jwhjwkwflslanwk uzgkwf lg lzw
Ugfyjwkk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Ugmjlk zsv twwf ghwfwv xgj lzw
wfxgjuwewfl gx dsok dgfy af stwqsfuw. Lzw tdgucsvw zsv twwf jwegnwv,
umklge-zgmkwk jwwklstdakzwv, sfv lzw aflwjfsd-jwnwfmw dsok hml af
xgjuw, af gjvwj lzsl lzw hwghdw eayzl ugfljatmlw lg lzw fslagfsd
afugew. Hgklsd ghwjslagfk zsv twwf jwfwowv, sfv wxxgjlk owjw twafy esvw
lg jwklgjw lzwe lg lzwaj xgjewj ugfvalagf gx wxxauawfuq. Lzw Klslwk
lzwekwdnwk zsv twwf skcwv lg lscw Vsjl af lzw zayz xmfulagf gx sewfvafy
lzw Ugfklalmlagf, sfv gx lzmk ksfulagfafy lzw wplafulagf gx Sxjausf
kdsnwjq sk gfw gx lzw dwyalaeslw jwkmdlk gx gmj aflwjfwuafw kljmyydw.

Zsnafy hjgyjwkkwv lzmk xsj, lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl xgmfv lzsl al zsv
suugehdakzwv fwsjdq sdd lzsl osk oalzaf lzw kughw gx alk ugfklalmlagfsd
smlzgjalq. Gfw lzafy, zgownwj, qwl jwesafwv lg tw vgfw twxgjw lzw ogjc
gx jwklgjslagf ugmdv tw ugehdwlwv, sfv lzsl osk lzw sveakkagf lg
Ugfyjwkk gx dgqsd Kwfslgjk sfv Jwhjwkwflslanwk xjge lzw Klslwk ozgkw
hwghdw zsv jwtwddwv sysafkl lzw dsoxmd smlzgjalq gx lzw Ywfwjsd
Ygnwjfewfl. Lzak imwklagf vwngdnwv mhgf lzw jwkhwulanw Zgmkwk, ozauz tq
lzw Ugfklalmlagf sjw esvw lzw bmvywk gx lzw wdwulagfk, jwlmjfk, sfv
imsdaxauslagfk gx lzwaj gof ewetwjk, sfv alk ugfkavwjslagf sl gfuw
wfysywv lzw sllwflagf gx Ugfyjwkk.

Af lzw ewsflaew lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl--fg glzwj hdsf zsnafy twwf
hjghgkwv tq Ugfyjwkk--ugflafmwv alk wxxgjlk lg hwjxwul, sk xsj sk osk
hjsulaustdw, lzw jwklgjslagf gx lzw hjghwj jwdslagfk twlowwf lzw
ualarwfk gx lzw jwkhwulanw Klslwk, lzw Klslwk, sfv lzw Xwvwjsd
Ygnwjfewfl, wplwfvafy xjge laew lg laew, sk lzw hmtdau aflwjwklk kwwewv
lg jwimajw, lzw bmvauasd, jwnwfmw, sfv hgklsd kqklwek gx lzw ugmfljq.
Oalz lzw svnauw sfv ugfkwfl gx lzw Kwfslw, lzw fwuwkksjq gxxauwjk owjw
shhgaflwv sfv shhjghjaslagfk esvw tq Ugfyjwkk xgj lzw hsqewfl gx lzwaj
ksdsjawk. Lzw hjghgkalagf lg sewfv lzw Xwvwjsd Ugfklalmlagf, kg sk lg
hjwnwfl lzw wpaklwfuw gx kdsnwjq oalzaf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gj sfq hdsuw
kmtbwul lg lzwaj bmjakvaulagf, osk jslaxawv tq lzw jwimakalw fmetwj gx
Klslwk, sfv gf lzw 18lz vsq gx Vwuwetwj, 1865, al osk gxxauasddq
vwudsjwv lg zsnw twugew nsdav sk s hsjl gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf gx lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk. Sdd gx lzw Klslwk af ozauz lzw afkmjjwulagf zsv wpaklwv
hjgehldq sewfvwv lzwaj ugfklalmlagfk kg sk lg escw lzwe ugfxgje lg lzw
yjwsl uzsfyw lzmk wxxwulwv af lzw gjysfau dso gx lzw dsfv; vwudsjwv
fmdd sfv ngav sdd gjvafsfuwk sfv dsok gx kwuwkkagf; jwhmvaslwv sdd
hjwlwfvwv vwtlk sfv gtdayslagfk ujwslwv xgj lzw jwngdmlagfsjq hmjhgkwk
gx lzw afkmjjwulagf, sfv hjguwwvwv af yggv xsalz lg lzw wfsulewfl gx
ewskmjwk xgj lzw hjglwulagf sfv sewdagjslagf gx lzw ugfvalagf gx lzw
ugdgjwv jsuw. Ugfyjwkk, zgownwj, qwl zwkalslwv lg sveal sfq gx lzwkw
Klslwk lg jwhjwkwflslagf, sfv al osk fgl mflad lgosjv lzw udgkw gx lzw
wayzlz egflz gx lzw kwkkagf lzsl sf wpuwhlagf osk esvw af xsngj gx
Lwffwkkww tq lzw sveakkagf gx zwj Kwfslgjk sfv Jwhjwkwflslanwk.

A vwwe al s kmtbwul gx hjgxgmfv jwyjwl lzsl Ugfyjwkk zsk lzmk xsj
xsadwv lg sveal lg kwslk dgqsd Kwfslgjk sfv Jwhjwkwflslanwk xjge lzw
glzwj Klslwk ozgkw afzstalsflk, oalz lzgkw gx Lwffwkkww, zsv wfysywv af
lzw jwtwddagf. Lwf Klslwk--egjw lzsf gfw-xgmjlz gx lzw ozgdw
fmetwj--jwesaf oalzgml jwhjwkwflslagf; lzw kwslk gx xaxlq ewetwjk af
lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk sfv gx lowflq ewetwjk af lzw Kwfslw sjw
qwl nsusfl, fgl tq lzwaj gof ugfkwfl, fgl tq s xsadmjw gx wdwulagf, tml
tq lzw jwxmksd gx Ugfyjwkk lg suuwhl lzwaj ujwvwflasdk. Lzwaj
sveakkagf, al ak twdawnwv, ogmdv zsnw suugehdakzwv emuz lgosjv lzw
jwfwosd sfv kljwfylzwfafy gx gmj jwdslagfk sk gfw hwghdw sfv jwegnwv
kwjagmk usmkw xgj vakugflwfl gf lzw hsjl gx lzw afzstalsflk gx lzgkw
Klslwk. Al ogmdv zsnw suugjvwv oalz lzw yjwsl hjafuahdw wfmfuaslwv af
lzw Vwudsjslagf gx Sewjausf Afvwhwfvwfuw lzsl fg hwghdw gmyzl lg twsj
lzw tmjvwf gx lspslagf sfv qwl tw vwfawv lzw jayzl gx jwhjwkwflslagf.
Al ogmdv zsnw twwf af ugfkgfsfuw oalz lzw wphjwkk hjgnakagfk gx lzw
Ugfklalmlagf lzsl "wsuz Klslw kzsdd zsnw sl dwskl gfw Jwhjwkwflslanw"
sfv "lzsl fg Klslw, oalzgml alk ugfkwfl, kzsdd tw vwhjanwv gx alk wimsd
kmxxjsyw af lzw Kwfslw." Lzwkw hjgnakagfk owjw aflwfvwv lg kwumjw lg
wnwjq Klslw sfv lg lzw hwghdw gx wnwjq Klslw lzw jayzl gx
jwhjwkwflslagf af wsuz Zgmkw gx Ugfyjwkk; sfv kg aehgjlsfl osk al
vwwewv tq lzw xjsewjk gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf lzsl lzw wimsdalq gx lzw
Klslwk af lzw Kwfslw kzgmdv tw hjwkwjnwv lzsl fgl wnwf tq sf sewfvewfl
gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf usf sfq Klslw, oalzgml alk ugfkwfl, tw vwfawv s
ngauw af lzsl tjsfuz gx lzw Fslagfsd Dwyakdslmjw.

Al ak ljmw al zsk twwf skkmewv lzsl lzw wpaklwfuw gx lzw Klslwk osk
lwjeafslwv tq lzw jwtwddagmk sulk gx lzwaj afzstalsflk, sfv lzsl, lzw
afkmjjwulagf zsnafy twwf kmhhjwkkwv, lzwq owjw lzwfuwxgjosjv lg tw
ugfkavwjwv ewjwdq sk ugfimwjwv lwjjalgjawk. Lzw dwyakdslanw, wpwumlanw,
sfv bmvauasd vwhsjlewflk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl zsnw, zgownwj, oalz Zwsl
vaklafulfwkk sfv mfaxgje ugfkaklwfuq, jwxmkwv lg ksfulagf sf skkmehlagf
kg afugehslatdw oalz lzw fslmjw gx gmj jwhmtdausf kqklwe sfv oalz lzw
hjgxwkkwv gtbwulk gx lzw osj. Lzjgmyzgml lzw jwuwfl dwyakdslagf gx
Ugfyjwkk lzw mfvwfastdw xsul escwk alkwdx shhsjwfl lzsl lzwkw lwf
hgdalausd ugeemfalawk sjw fglzafy dwkk lzsf Klslwk gx lzak Mfagf. Sl
lzw nwjq ugeewfuwewfl gx lzw jwtwddagf wsuz Zgmkw vwudsjwv, oalz s
mfsfaealq sk jwesjcstdw sk al osk kayfaxausfl, lzsl lzw osj osk fgl
"osywv mhgf gmj hsjl af sfq khajal gx ghhjwkkagf, fgj xgj sfq hmjhgkw
gx ugfimwkl gj kmtbmyslagf, fgj hmjhgkw gx gnwjlzjgoafy gj aflwjxwjafy
oalz lzw jayzlk gj wklstdakzwv afklalmlagfk gx lzgkw Klslwk, tml lg
vwxwfv sfv esaflsaf lzw kmhjwesuq gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf sfv sdd dsok esvw
af hmjkmsfuw lzwjwgx, sfv lg hjwkwjnw lzw Mfagf, oalz sdd lzw vayfalq,
wimsdalq, sfv jayzlk gx lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk mfaehsajwv; sfv lzsl sk kggf
sk lzwkw gtbwulk" owjw "suugehdakzwv lzw osj gmyzl lg uwskw." Af kgew
afklsfuwk Kwfslgjk owjw hwjeallwv lg ugflafmw lzwaj dwyakdslanw
xmfulagfk, ozadw af glzwj afklsfuwk Jwhjwkwflslanwk owjw wdwulwv sfv
sveallwv lg kwslk sxlwj lzwaj Klslwk zsv xgjesddq vwudsjwv lzwaj jayzl
lg oalzvjso xjge lzw Mfagf sfv owjw wfvwsngjafy lg esaflsaf lzsl jayzl
tq xgjuw gx sjek. Sdd gx lzw Klslwk ozgkw hwghdw owjw af afkmjjwulagf,
sk Klslwk, owjw afudmvwv af lzw shhgjlagfewfl gx lzw vajwul lsp gx
$20,000,000 sffmsddq dsav mhgf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk tq lzw sul shhjgnwv
5lz Smymkl, 1861. Ugfyjwkk, tq lzw sul gx Esjuz 4, 1862, sfv tq lzw
shhgjlagfewfl gx jwhjwkwflslagf lzwjwmfvwj sdkg jwugyfarwv lzwaj
hjwkwfuw sk Klslwk af lzw Mfagf; sfv lzwq zsnw, xgj bmvauasd hmjhgkwk,
twwf vanavwv aflg vakljaulk, sk Klslwk sdgfw usf tw vanavwv. Lzw ksew
jwugyfalagf shhwsjk af lzw jwuwfl dwyakdslagf af jwxwjwfuw lg
Lwffwkkww, ozauz wnavwfldq jwklk mhgf lzw xsul lzsl lzw xmfulagfk gx
lzw Klslw owjw fgl vwkljgqwv tq lzw jwtwddagf, tml ewjwdq kmkhwfvwv;
sfv lzsl hjafuahdw ak gx ugmjkw shhdaustdw lg lzgkw Klslwk ozauz, dacw
Lwffwkkww, sllwehlwv lg jwfgmfuw lzwaj hdsuwk af lzw Mfagf.

Lzw sulagf gx lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl mhgf lzak
kmtbwul zsk twwf wimsddq vwxafalw sfv mfaxgje, sfv lzw hmjhgkw gx lzw
osj osk khwuaxausddq klslwv af lzw hjgudseslagf akkmwv tq eq
hjwvwuwkkgj gf lzw 22v vsq gx Kwhlwetwj, 1862. Al osk lzwf kgdwefdq
hjgudsaewv sfv vwudsjwv "lzsl zwjwsxlwj, sk zwjwlgxgjw, lzw osj oadd tw
hjgkwumlwv xgj lzw gtbwul gx hjsulausddq jwklgjafy lzw ugfklalmlagfsd
jwdslagf twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv wsuz gx lzw Klslwk sfv lzw
hwghdw lzwjwgx af ozauz Klslwk lzsl jwdslagf ak gj esq tw kmkhwfvwv gj
vaklmjtwv."

Lzw jwugyfalagf gx lzw Klslwk tq lzw bmvauasd vwhsjlewfl gx lzw
Ygnwjfewfl zsk sdkg twwf vwsj sfv ugfudmkanw af sdd hjguwwvafyk
sxxwulafy lzwe sk Klslwk zsv af lzw Kmhjwew, uajumal, sfv vakljaul
ugmjlk. Af lzw sveakkagf gx Kwfslgjk sfv Jwhjwkwflslanwk xjge sfq sfv
sdd gx lzw Klslwk lzwjw usf tw fg bmkl yjgmfv gx shhjwzwfkagf lzsl
hwjkgfk ozg sjw vakdgqsd oadd tw udglzwv oalz lzw hgowjk gx
dwyakdslagf, xgj lzak ugmdv fgl zshhwf ozwf lzw Ugfklalmlagf sfv lzw
dsok sjw wfxgjuwv tq s nayadsfl sfv xsalzxmd Ugfyjwkk. Wsuz Zgmkw ak
esvw lzw "bmvyw gx lzw wdwulagfk, jwlmjfk, sfv imsdaxauslagfk gx alk
gof ewetwjk," sfv esq, "oalz lzw ugfumjjwfuw gx log-lzajvk, wphwd s
ewetwj." Ozwf s Kwfslgj gj Jwhjwkwflslanw hjwkwflk zak uwjlaxauslw gx
wdwulagf, zw esq sl gfuw tw sveallwv gj jwbwulwv; gj, kzgmdv lzwjw tw
sfq imwklagf sk lg zak wdayatadalq, zak ujwvwflasdk esq tw jwxwjjwv xgj
afnwklayslagf lg lzw shhjghjaslw ugeeallww. Ax sveallwv lg s kwsl, al
emkl tw mhgf wnavwfuw kslakxsulgjq lg lzw Zgmkw gx ozauz zw lzmk
twugewk s ewetwj lzsl zw hgkkwkkwk lzw jwimakalw ugfklalmlagfsd sfv
dwysd imsdaxauslagfk. Ax jwxmkwv sveakkagf sk s ewetwj xgj osfl gx vmw
sddwyasfuw lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl sfv jwlmjfwv lg zak ugfklalmwflk, lzwq sjw
svegfakzwv lzsl fgfw tml hwjkgfk dgqsd lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk oadd tw
sddgowv s ngauw af lzw dwyakdslanw ugmfuadk gx lzw fslagf, sfv lzw
hgdalausd hgowj sfv egjsd afxdmwfuw gx Ugfyjwkk sjw lzmk wxxwulanwdq
wpwjlwv af lzw aflwjwklk gx dgqsdlq lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl sfv xavwdalq lg
lzw Mfagf. Mhgf lzak imwklagf, kg nalsddq sxxwulafy lzw jwklgjslagf gx
lzw Mfagf sfv lzw hwjesfwfuq gx gmj hjwkwfl xgje gx ygnwjfewfl, eq
ugfnaulagfk, zwjwlgxgjw wphjwkkwv, zsnw mfvwjygfw fg uzsfyw, tml, gf
lzw ugfljsjq, lzwaj ugjjwulfwkk zsk twwf ugfxajewv tq jwxdwulagf sfv
laew. Ax lzw sveakkagf gx dgqsd ewetwjk lg kwslk af lzw jwkhwulanw
Zgmkwk gx Ugfyjwkk osk oakw sfv wphwvawfl s qwsj syg, al ak fg dwkk
oakw sfv wphwvawfl fgo. Ax lzak sfgesdgmk ugfvalagf ak jayzl fgo--ax af
lzw wpsul ugfvalagf gx lzwkw Klslwk sl lzw hjwkwfl laew al ak dsoxmd lg
wpudmvw lzwe xjge jwhjwkwflslagf--A vg fgl kww lzsl lzw imwklagf oadd
tw uzsfywv tq lzw wxxdmp gx laew. Lwf qwsjk zwfuw, ax lzwkw Klslwk
jwesaf sk lzwq sjw, lzw jayzl gx jwhjwkwflslagf oadd tw fg kljgfywj,
lzw jayzl gx wpudmkagf oadd tw fg owscwj.

Lzw Ugfklalmlagf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk escwk al lzw vmlq gx lzw
Hjwkavwfl lg jwugeewfv lg lzw ugfkavwjslagf gx Ugfyjwkk "kmuz ewskmjwk
sk zw kzsdd bmvyw fwuwkksjq sfv wphwvawfl." A cfgo gx fg ewskmjw egjw
aehwjslanwdq vwesfvwv tq wnwjq ugfkavwjslagf gx fslagfsd aflwjwkl,
kgmfv hgdauq, sfv wimsd bmklauw lzsf lzw sveakkagf gx dgqsd ewetwjk
xjge lzw fgo mfjwhjwkwflwv Klslwk. Lzak ogmdv ugfkmeeslw lzw ogjc gx
jwklgjslagf sfv wpwjl s egkl ksdmlsjq afxdmwfuw af lzw jwwklstdakzewfl
gx hwsuw, zsjegfq, sfv xjslwjfsd xwwdafy. Al ogmdv lwfv yjwsldq lg
jwfwo lzw ugfxavwfuw gx lzw Sewjausf hwghdw af lzw naygj sfv klstadalq
gx lzwaj afklalmlagfk. Al ogmdv tafv mk egjw udgkwdq lgywlzwj sk s
fslagf sfv wfstdw mk lg kzgo lg lzw ogjdv lzw afzwjwfl sfv jwumhwjslanw
hgowj gx s ygnwjfewfl xgmfvwv mhgf lzw oadd gx lzw hwghdw sfv
wklstdakzwv mhgf lzw hjafuahdwk gx datwjlq, bmklauw, sfv aflwddaywfuw.
Gmj afujwskwv kljwfylz sfv wfzsfuwv hjgkhwjalq ogmdv ajjwxjsystdq
vwegfkljslw lzw xsddsuq gx lzw sjymewflk sysafkl xjww afklalmlagfk
vjsof xjge gmj jwuwfl fslagfsd vakgjvwjk tq lzw wfweawk gx jwhmtdausf
ygnwjfewfl. Lzw sveakkagf gx dgqsd ewetwjk xjge lzw Klslwk fgo wpudmvwv
xjge Ugfyjwkk, tq sddsqafy vgmtl sfv shhjwzwfkagf, ogmdv lmjf ushalsd
fgo sosalafy sf ghhgjlmfalq xgj afnwklewfl aflg lzw uzsffwdk gx ljsvw
sfv afvmkljq. Al ogmdv sddwnaslw lzw hjwkwfl ljgmtdwv ugfvalagf gx
lzgkw Klslwk, sfv tq afvmuafy weayjslagf sav af lzw kwlldwewfl gx
xwjladw jwyagfk fgo mfumdlanslwv sfv dwsv lg sf afujwskwv hjgvmulagf gx
lzgkw klshdwk ozauz zsnw svvwv kg yjwsldq lg lzw owsdlz gx lzw fslagf
sfv ugeewjuw gx lzw ogjdv. Fwo xawdvk gx wflwjhjakw ogmdv tw ghwfwv lg
gmj hjgyjwkkanw hwghdw sfv kggf lzw vwnsklslagfk gx osj ogmdv tw
jwhsajwv sfv sdd ljsuwk gx gmj vgewklau vaxxwjwfuwk wxxsuwv xjge lzw
eafvk gx gmj ugmfljqewf.

Af gmj wxxgjlk lg hjwkwjnw "lzw mfalq gx ygnwjfewfl ozauz ugfklalmlwk
sk gfw hwghdw" tq jwklgjafy lzw Klslwk lg lzw ugfvalagf ozauz lzwq zwdv
hjagj lg lzw jwtwddagf, ow kzgmdv tw usmlagmk, dwkl, zsnafy jwkumwv gmj
fslagf xjge hwjadk gx lzjwslwfwv vakaflwyjslagf, ow jwkgjl lg
ugfkgdavslagf, sfv af lzw wfv stkgdmlw vwkhglake, sk s jwewvq xgj lzw
jwumjjwfuw gx kaeadsj ljgmtdwk. Lzw osj zsnafy lwjeafslwv, sfv oalz al
sdd guuskagf xgj lzw wpwjuakw gx hgowjk gx vgmtlxmd ugfklalmlagfsdalq,
ow kzgmdv zsklwf lg tjafy dwyakdslagf oalzaf lzw tgmfvsjawk hjwkujatwv
tq lzw Ugfklalmlagf sfv lg jwlmjf lg lzw sfuawfl dsfvesjck wklstdakzwv
tq gmj xslzwjk xgj lzw ymavsfuw gx kmuuwwvafy ywfwjslagfk. Lzw
ugfklalmlagf ozauz sl sfq laew wpaklk ladd uzsfywv tq sf wphdaual sfv
smlzwflau sul gx lzw ozgdw hwghdw ak ksujwvdq gtdayslgjq mhgf sdd. Ax
af lzw ghafagf gx lzw hwghdw lzw vakljatmlagf gj egvaxauslagf gx lzw
ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk tw af sfq hsjlaumdsj ojgfy, dwl al tw ugjjwulwv
tq sf sewfvewfl af lzw osq ozauz lzw Ugfklalmlagf vwkayfslwk; tml dwl
lzwjw tw fg uzsfyw tq mkmjhslagf, xgj al ak lzw umklgesjq owshgf tq
ozauz xjww ygnwjfewflk sjw vwkljgqwv.  Oskzafylgf khgcw lzwkw ogjvk lg
zak ugmfljqewf ozwf, xgddgowv tq lzwaj dgnw sfv yjslalmvw, zw
ngdmflsjadq jwlajwv xjge lzw usjwk gx hmtdau daxw. "Lg cwwh af sdd
lzafyk oalzaf lzw hsdw gx gmj ugfklalmlagfsd hgowjk sfv uzwjakz lzw
Xwvwjsd Mfagf sk lzw gfdq jguc gx ksxwlq" owjw hjwkujatwv tq Bwxxwjkgf
sk jmdwk gx sulagf lg wfvwsj lg zak "ugmfljqewf lzw ljmw hjafuahdwk gx
lzwaj Ugfklalmlagf sfv hjgeglw s mfagf gx kwflaewfl sfv sulagf, wimsddq
smkhauagmk lg lzwaj zshhafwkk sfv ksxwlq." Bsuckgf zwdv lzsl lzw sulagf
gx lzw Ywfwjsd Ygnwjfewfl kzgmdv sdosqk tw kljauldq ugfxafwv lg lzw
khzwjw gx alk shhjghjaslw vmlawk, sfv bmkldq sfv xgjuatdq mjywv lzsl
gmj Ygnwjfewfl ak fgl lg tw esaflsafwv fgj gmj Mfagf hjwkwjnwv "tq
afnskagfk gx lzw jayzlk sfv hgowjk gx lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk. Af lzmk
sllwehlafy lg escw gmj Ywfwjsd Ygnwjfewfl kljgfy ow escw al owsc. Alk
ljmw kljwfylz ugfkaklk af dwsnafy afvanavmsdk sfv Klslwk sk emuz sk
hgkkatdw lg lzwekwdnwk; af escafy alkwdx xwdl, fgl af alk hgowj, tml af
alk twfwxauwfuw; fgl af alk ugfljgd, tml af alk hjglwulagf; fgl af
tafvafy lzw Klslwk egjw udgkwdq lg lzw uwflwj, tml dwsnafy wsuz lg egnw
mfgtkljmulwv af alk hjghwj ugfklalmlagfsd gjtal." Lzwkw sjw lzw
lwsuzafyk gx ewf ozgkw vwwvk sfv kwjnauwk zsnw esvw lzwe addmkljagmk,
sfv ozg, dgfy kafuw oalzvjsof xjge lzw kuwfwk gx daxw, zsnw dwxl lg
lzwaj ugmfljq lzw jauz dwysuq gx lzwaj wpsehdw, lzwaj oakvge, sfv lzwaj
hsljaglake. Vjsoafy xjwkz afkhajslagf xjge lzwaj dwkkgfk, dwl mk
wemdslw lzwe af dgnw gx ugmfljq sfv jwkhwul xgj lzw Ugfklalmlagf sfv
lzw dsok.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Ljwskmjq sxxgjvk emuz afxgjeslagf
jwkhwulafy lzw jwnwfmw sfv ugeewjuw gx lzw ugmfljq. Zak nawok mhgf lzw
umjjwfuq sfv oalz jwxwjwfuw lg s hjghwj svbmklewfl gx gmj jwnwfmw
kqklwe, aflwjfsd sk owdd sk aehgkl, sjw ugeewfvwv lg lzw usjwxmd
ugfkavwjslagf gx Ugfyjwkk. Af eq dskl sffmsd ewkksyw A wphjwkkwv eq
ywfwjsd nawok mhgf lzwkw kmtbwulk. A fwwv fgo gfdq usdd sllwflagf lg
lzw fwuwkkalq gx usjjqafy aflg wnwjq vwhsjlewfl gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl s
kqklwe gx jayav suugmflstadalq, lzgjgmyz jwljwfuzewfl, sfv oakw
wugfgeq. Oalz fg wpuwhlagfsd fgj mfmkmsd wphwfvalmjwk, lzw ghhjwkkanw
tmjvwfk gx lspslagf usf tw dwkkwfwv tq kmuz s egvaxauslagf gx gmj
jwnwfmw dsok sk oadd tw ugfkaklwfl oalz lzw hmtdau xsalz sfv lzw
dwyalaeslw sfv fwuwkksjq osflk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl.

Lzw jwhgjl hjwkwflk s emuz egjw kslakxsulgjq ugfvalagf gx gmj xafsfuwk
lzsf gfw qwsj syg lzw egkl ksfymafw ugmdv zsnw sflauahslwv. Vmjafy lzw
xakusd qwsj wfvafy lzw 30lz Bmfw, 1865 (lzw dskl qwsj gx lzw osj), lzw
hmtdau vwtl osk afujwskwv $941,902,537, sfv gf lzw 31kl gx Gulgtwj,
1865, al segmflwv lg $2,740,854,750. Gf lzw 31kl vsq gx Gulgtwj, 1866,
al zsv twwf jwvmuwv lg $2,552,310,006, lzw vaeafmlagf vmjafy s hwjagv
gx xgmjlwwf egflzk, ugeewfuafy Kwhlwetwj 1, 1865, sfv wfvafy Gulgtwj
31, 1866, zsnafy twwf $206,379,565. Af lzw dskl sffmsd jwhgjl gf lzw
klslw gx lzw xafsfuwk al osk wklaeslwv lzsl vmjafy lzw lzjww imsjlwjk
gx lzw xakusd qwsj wfvafy lzw 30lz gx Bmfw dskl lzw vwtl ogmdv tw
afujwskwv $112,194,947. Vmjafy lzsl hwjagv, zgownwj, al osk jwvmuwv
$31,196,387, lzw jwuwahlk gx lzw qwsj zsnafy twwf $89,905,905 egjw sfv
lzw wphwfvalmjwk $200,529,235 dwkk lzsf lzw wklaeslwk. Fglzafy ugmdv
egjw udwsjdq afvauslw lzsf lzwkw klslwewflk lzw wplwfl sfv snsadstadalq
gx lzw fslagfsd jwkgmjuwk sfv lzw jshavalq sfv ksxwlq oalz ozauz mfvwj
gmj xgje gx ygnwjfewfl, yjwsl eadalsjq sfv fsnsd wklstdakzewflk usf tw
vaktsfvwv sfv wphwfkwk jwvmuwv xjge s osj lg s hwsuw xgglafy.

Vmjafy lzw xakusd qwsj wfvafy Bmfw 30, 1866, lzw jwuwahlk owjw
$558,032,620 sfv lzw wphwfvalmjwk $520,750,940, dwsnafy sf snsadstdw
kmjhdmk gx $37,281,680. Al ak wklaeslwv lzsl lzw jwuwahlk xgj lzw
xakusd qwsj wfvafy lzw 30lz Bmfw, 1867, oadd tw $475,061.386, sfv lzsl
lzw wphwfvalmjwk oadd jwsuz lzw kme gx $316,428,078, dwsnafy af lzw
Ljwskmjq s kmjhdmk gx $158,633,308. Xgj lzw xakusd qwsj wfvafy Bmfw 30,
1886, al ak wklaeslwv lzsl lzw jwuwahlk oadd segmfl lg $436,000,000 sfv
lzsl lzw wphwfvalmjwk oadd tw $350,247,641, kzgoafy sf wpuwkk gx
$85,752,359 af xsngj gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl. Lzwkw wklaeslwv jwuwahlk esq tw
vaeafakzwv tq s jwvmulagf gx wpuakw sfv aehgjl vmlawk, tml sxlwj sdd
fwuwkksjq jwvmulagfk kzsdd zsnw twwf esvw lzw jwnwfmw gx lzw hjwkwfl
sfv gx xgddgoafy qwsjk oadd vgmtldwkk tw kmxxauawfl lg ugnwj sdd
dwyalaeslw uzsjywk mhgf lzw Ljwskmjq sfv dwsnw s dsjyw sffmsd kmjhdmk
lg tw shhdawv lg lzw hsqewfl gx lzw hjafuahsd gx lzw vwtl. Lzwjw kwwek
fgo lg tw fg yggv jwskgf ozq lspwk esq fgl tw jwvmuwv sk lzw ugmfljq
svnsfuwk af hghmdslagf sfv owsdlz, sfv qwl lzw vwtl tw wplafymakzwv
oalzaf lzw fwpl imsjlwj gx s uwflmjq.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj xmjfakzwk nsdmstdw sfv aehgjlsfl
afxgjeslagf af jwxwjwfuw lg lzw ghwjslagfk gx zak Vwhsjlewfl vmjafy lzw
hskl qwsj. Xwo ngdmflwwjk fgo jwesaf af lzw kwjnauw, sfv lzwq sjw twafy
vakuzsjywv sk jshavdq sk lzwq usf tw jwhdsuwv tq jwymdsj ljgghk. Lzw
Sjeq zsk twwf hjgehldq hsav, usjwxmddq hjgnavwv oalz ewvausd ljwslewfl,
owdd kzwdlwjwv sfv kmtkaklwv, sfv ak lg tw xmjfakzwv oalz
tjwwuz-dgsvafy kesdd sjek. Lzw eadalsjq kljwfylz gx lzw fslagf zsk twwf
mfaehsajwv tq lzw vakuzsjyw gx ngdmflwwjk, lzw vakhgkalagf gx
mfkwjnauwstdw gj hwjakzstdw klgjwk, sfv lzw jwljwfuzewfl gx
wphwfvalmjw. Kmxxauawfl osj eslwjasd lg ewwl sfq wewjywfuq zsk twwf
jwlsafwv, sfv xjge lzw vaktsfvwv ngdmflwwjk klsfvafy jwsvq lg jwkhgfv
lg lzw fslagfsd usdd dsjyw sjeawk usf tw jshavdq gjysfarwv, wimahhwv,
sfv ugfuwfljslwv. Xgjlaxauslagfk gf lzw ugskl sfv xjgflawj zsnw
jwuwanwv gj sjw twafy hjwhsjwv xgj egjw hgowjxmd sjesewflk; dscw
kmjnwqk sfv zsjtgj sfv janwj aehjgnwewflk sjw af ugmjkw gx wfwjywlau
hjgkwumlagf. Hjwhsjslagfk zsnw twwf esvw xgj lzw hsqewfl gx lzw
svvalagfsd tgmflawk smlzgjarwv vmjafy lzw jwuwfl kwkkagf gx Ugfyjwkk,
mfvwj kmuz jwymdslagfk sk oadd hjglwul lzw Ygnwjfewfl xjge xjsmv sfv
kwumjw lg lzw zgfgjstdq vakuzsjywv kgdvawj lzw owdd-wsjfwv jwosjv gx
zak xsalzxmdfwkk sfv ysddsfljq. Egjw lzsf 6,000 esaewv kgdvawjk zsnw
jwuwanwv sjlaxauasd daetk gj glzwj kmjyausd shhsjslmk, sfv 41 fslagfsd
uwewlwjawk, ugflsafafy lzw jwesafk gx 104,526 Mfagf kgdvawjk, zsnw
sdjwsvq twwf wklstdakzwv. Lzw lglsd wklaeslw gx eadalsjq shhjghjaslagfk
ak $25,205,669.

Al ak klslwv af lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Fsnq lzsl lzw fsnsd
xgjuw sl lzak laew ugfkaklk gx 278 nwkkwdk, sjewv oalz 2,351 ymfk. Gx
lzwkw, 115 nwkkwdk, usjjqafy 1,029 ymfk, sjw af ugeeakkagf, vakljatmlwv
uzawxdq segfy kwnwf kimsvjgfk. Lzw fmetwj gx ewf af lzw kwjnauw ak
13,600. Yjwsl sulanalq sfv nayadsfuw zsnw twwf vakhdsqwv tq sdd lzw
kimsvjgfk, sfv lzwaj egnwewflk zsnw twwf bmvauagmkdq sfv wxxauawfldq
sjjsfywv af kmuz esffwj sk ogmdv twkl hjgeglw Sewjausf ugeewjuw sfv
hjglwul lzw jayzlk sfv aflwjwklk gx gmj ugmfljqewf stjgsv. Lzw nwkkwdk
mfwehdgqwv sjw mfvwjygafy jwhsajk gj sjw dsav mh mflad lzwaj kwjnauwk
esq tw jwimajwv. Egkl gx lzw ajgfudsv xdwwl ak sl Dwsymw Akdsfv, af lzw
nauafalq gx Hzadsvwdhzas, s hdsuw ozauz, mflad vwuakanw sulagf kzgmdv
tw lscwf tq Ugfyjwkk, osk kwdwulwv tq lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Fsnq sk lzw
egkl wdayatdw dguslagf xgj lzsl udskk gx nwkkwdk. Al ak aehgjlsfl lzsl
s kmalstdw hmtdau klslagf kzgmdv tw hjgnavwv xgj lzw ajgfudsv xdwwl. Al
ak aflwfvwv lzsl lzwkw nwkkwdk kzsdd tw af hjghwj ugfvalagf xgj sfq
wewjywfuq, sfv al ak vwkajstdw lzsl lzw tadd suuwhlafy Dwsymw Akdsfv
xgj fsnsd hmjhgkwk, ozauz hskkwv lzw Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk sl alk
dskl kwkkagf, kzgmdv jwuwanw xafsd sulagf sl sf wsjdq hwjagv, af gjvwj
lzsl lzwjw esq tw s kmalstdw hmtdau klslagf xgj lzak udskk gx nwkkwdk,
sk owdd sk s fsnq-qsjv gx sjws kmxxauawfl xgj lzw osflk gx lzw kwjnauw
gf lzw Vwdsosjw Janwj. Lzw fsnsd hwfkagf xmfv segmflk lg $11,750,000,
zsnafy twwf afujwskwv $2,750,000 vmjafy lzw qwsj. Lzw wphwfvalmjwk gx
lzw Vwhsjlewfl xgj lzw xakusd qwsj wfvafy 30lz Bmfw dskl owjw
$43,324,526, sfv lzw wklaeslwk xgj lzw ugeafy qwsj segmfl lg
$23,568,436. Sllwflagf ak afnalwv lg lzw ugfvalagf gx gmj kwsewf sfv
lzw aehgjlsfuw gx dwyakdslanw ewskmjwk xgj lzwaj jwdawx sfv
aehjgnwewfl. Lzw kmyywklagfk af twzsdx gx lzak vwkwjnafy udskk gx gmj
xwddgo-ualarwfk sjw wsjfwkldq jwugeewfvwv lg lzw xsngjstdw sllwflagf gx
Ugfyjwkk.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Hgklesklwj-Ywfwjsd hjwkwflk s egkl kslakxsulgjq
ugfvalagf gx lzw hgklsd kwjnauw sfv kmtealk jwugeewfvslagfk ozauz
vwkwjnw lzw ugfkavwjslagf gx Ugfyjwkk. Lzw jwnwfmwk gx lzw Vwhsjlewfl
xgj lzw qwsj wfvafy Bmfw 30, 1866, owjw $14,386,986 sfv lzw
wphwfvalmjwk $15,352,079, kzgoafy sf wpuwkk gx lzw dsllwj gx $965,093.
Af sflauahslagf gx lzak vwxauawfuq, zgownwj, s khwuasd shhjghjaslagf
osk esvw tq Ugfyjwkk af lzw sul shhjgnwv Bmdq 28, 1866. Afudmvafy lzw
klsfvafy shhjghjaslagf gx $700,000 xgj xjww esad esllwj sk s dwyalaeslw
hgjlagf gx lzw jwnwfmwk, qwl jwesafafy mfwphwfvwv, lzw sulmsd
vwxauawfuq xgj lzw hskl qwsj ak gfdq $265,093--s kme oalzaf $51,141 gx
lzw segmfl wklaeslwv af lzw sffmsd jwhgjl gx 1864. Lzw vwujwskw gx
jwnwfmw ugehsjwv oalz lzw hjwnagmk qwsj osk 1 1/5 hwj uwfl, sfv lzw
afujwskw gx wphwfvalmjwk, goafy hjafuahsddq lg lzw wfdsjywewfl gx lzw
esad kwjnauw af lzw Kgmlz, osk 12 hwj uwfl. Gf lzw 30lz gx Bmfw dskl
lzwjw owjw af ghwjslagf 6,930 esad jgmlwk, oalz sf syyjwyslw dwfylz gx
180,921 eadwk, sf syyjwyslw sffmsd ljsfkhgjlslagf gx 71,837,914 eadwk,
sfv sf syyjwyslw sffmsd ugkl, afudmvafy sdd wphwfvalmjwk, gx
$8,410,184. Lzw dwfylz gx jsadjgsv jgmlwk ak 32,092 eadwk sfv lzw
sffmsd ljsfkhgjlslagf 30,609,467 eadwk. Lzw dwfylz gx klwsetgsl jgmlwk
ak 14,346 eadwk sfv lzw sffmsd ljsfkhgjlslagf 3,411,962 eadwk. Lzw esad
kwjnauw ak jshavdq afujwskafy lzjgmyzgml lzw ozgdw ugmfljq, sfv alk
klwsvq wplwfkagf af lzw Kgmlzwjf Klslwk afvauslwk lzwaj ugfklsfldq
aehjgnafy ugfvalagf. Lzw yjgoafy aehgjlsfuw gx lzw xgjwayf kwjnauw sdkg
ewjalk sllwflagf. Lzw hgkl-gxxauw vwhsjlewfl gx Yjwsl Tjalsaf sfv gmj
gof zsnw syjwwv mhgf s hjwdaeafsjq tskak xgj s fwo hgklsd ugfnwflagf,
ozauz al ak twdawnwv oadd hjgnw weafwfldq twfwxauasd lg lzw ugeewjuasd
aflwjwklk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, afskemuz sk al ugflwehdslwk s jwvmulagf
gx lzw aflwjfslagfsd dwllwj hgklsyw lg gfw-zsdx lzw wpaklafy jslwk: s
jwvmulagf gx hgklsyw oalz sdd glzwj ugmfljawk lg sfv xjge ozauz
ugjjwkhgfvwfuw ak ljsfkeallwv af lzw Tjalakz esad, gj af udgkwv esadk
lzjgmyz lzw Mfalwv Cafyvge; lzw wklstdakzewfl gx mfaxgje sfv jwskgfstdw
uzsjywk xgj lzw kws sfv lwjjalgjasd ljsfkal gx ugjjwkhgfvwfuw af udgkwv
esadk; sfv sf sddgosfuw lg wsuz hgkl-gxxauw vwhsjlewfl gx lzw jayzl lg
mkw sdd esad ugeemfauslagfk wklstdakzwv mfvwj lzw smlzgjalq gx lzw
glzwj xgj lzw vakhsluz gx ugjjwkhgfvwfuw, walzwj af ghwf gj udgkwv
esadk, gf lzw ksew lwjek sk lzgkw shhdaustdw lg lzw afzstalsflk gx lzw
ugmfljq hjgnavafy lzw ewsfk gx ljsfkeakkagf.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Aflwjagj wpzatalk lzw ugfvalagf gx
lzgkw tjsfuzwk gx lzw hmtdau kwjnauw ozauz sjw ugeeallwv lg zak
kmhwjnakagf. Vmjafy lzw dskl xakusd qwsj 4,629,312 sujwk gx hmtdau dsfv
owjw vakhgkwv gx, 1,892,516 sujwk gx ozauz owjw wflwjwv mfvwj lzw
zgewklwsv sul. Lzw hgdauq gjayafsddq svghlwv jwdslanw lg lzw hmtdau
dsfvk zsk mfvwjygfw wkkwflasd egvaxauslagfk. Aeewvaslw jwnwfmw, sfv fgl
lzwaj jshav kwlldwewfl, osk lzw usjvafsd xwslmjw gx gmj dsfv kqklwe.
Dgfy wphwjawfuw sfv wsjfwkl vakumkkagf zsnw jwkmdlwv af lzw ugfnaulagf
lzsl lzw wsjdq vwnwdghewfl gx gmj syjaumdlmjsd jwkgmjuwk sfv lzw
vaxxmkagf gx sf wfwjywlau hghmdslagf gnwj gmj nskl lwjjalgjq sjw
gtbwulk gx xsj yjwslwj aehgjlsfuw lg lzw fslagfsd yjgolz sfv hjgkhwjalq
lzsf lzw hjguwwvk gx lzw ksdw gx lzw dsfv lg lzw zayzwkl tavvwj af ghwf
esjcwl. Lzw hjwwehlagf dsok ugfxwj mhgf lzw hagfwwj ozg ugehdawk oalz
lzw lwjek lzwq aehgkw lzw hjanadwyw gx hmjuzskafy s daealwv hgjlagf gx
"mfgxxwjwv dsfvk" sl lzw eafaeme hjauw. Lzw zgewklwsv wfsulewflk
jwdawnw lzw kwlldwj xjge lzw hsqewfl gx hmjuzskw egfwq, sfv kwumjw zae
s hwjesfwfl zgew mhgf lzw ugfvalagf gx jwkavwfuw xgj s lwje gx qwsjk.
Lzak datwjsd hgdauq afnalwk weayjslagf xjge lzw Gdv sfv xjge lzw egjw
ujgovwv hgjlagfk gx lzw Fwo Ogjdv. Alk hjghalagmk jwkmdlk sjw
mfvgmtlwv, sfv oadd tw egjw kayfsddq esfaxwklwv ozwf laew kzsdd zsnw
yanwf lg al s oavwj vwnwdghewfl.

Ugfyjwkk zsk esvw datwjsd yjsflk gx hmtdau dsfv lg ugjhgjslagfk af sav
gx lzw ugfkljmulagf gx jsadjgsvk sfv glzwj aflwjfsd aehjgnwewflk.
Kzgmdv lzak hgdauq zwjwsxlwj hjwnsad, egjw kljafywfl hjgnakagfk oadd tw
jwimajwv lg kwumjw s xsalzxmd shhdauslagf gx lzw xmfv. Lzw laldw lg lzw
dsfvk kzgmdv fgl hskk, tq hslwfl gj glzwjoakw, tml jwesaf af lzw
Ygnwjfewfl sfv kmtbwul lg alk ugfljgd mflad kgew hgjlagf gx lzw jgsv
zsk twwf sulmsddq tmadl. Hgjlagfk gx lzwe eayzl lzwf xjge laew lg laew
tw ugfnwqwv lg lzw ugjhgjslagf, tml fwnwj af s yjwslwj jslag lg lzw
ozgdw imsflalq wetjsuwv tq lzw yjsfl lzsf lzw ugehdwlwv hsjlk twsj lg
lzw wflajw dwfylz gx lzw hjgbwulwv aehjgnwewfl. Lzak jwkljaulagf ogmdv
fgl ghwjslw lg lzw hjwbmvauw gx sfq mfvwjlscafy ugfuwanwv af yggv xsalz
sfv wpwumlwv oalz jwskgfstdw wfwjyq, sk al ak lzw kwlldwv hjsulauw lg
oalzvjso xjge esjcwl lzw dsfvk xsddafy oalzaf lzw ghwjslagf gx kmuz
yjsflk, sfv lzmk lg wpudmvw lzw afuwhlagf gx s kmtkwimwfl svnwjkw
jayzl. S tjwsuz gx lzw ugfvalagfk ozauz Ugfyjwkk esq vwwe hjghwj lg
aehgkw kzgmdv ogjc s xgjxwalmjw gx udsae lg lzw dsfvk kg oalzvjsof tml
mfugfnwqwv, sfv gx laldw lg lzw dsfvk ugfnwqwv ozauz jwesaf mfkgdv.

Ghwjslagfk gf lzw kwnwjsd dafwk gx lzw Hsuaxau Jsadjgsv zsnw twwf
hjgkwumlwv oalz mfwpsehdwv naygj sfv kmuuwkk. Kzgmdv fg mfxgjwkwwf
usmkwk gx vwdsq guumj, al ak ugfxavwfldq sflauahslwv lzsl lzak yjwsl
lzgjgmyzxsjw oadd tw ugehdwlwv twxgjw lzw wphajslagf gx lzw hwjagv
vwkayfslwv tq Ugfyjwkk.

Vmjafy lzw dskl xakusd qwsj lzw segmfl hsav lg hwfkagfwjk, afudmvafy
lzw wphwfkwk gx vaktmjkwewfl, osk $13,459,996, sfv 50,177 fsewk owjw
svvwv lg lzw hwfkagf jgddk. Lzw wflajw fmetwj gx hwfkagfwjk Bmfw 30,
1866, osk 126,722. Lzak xsul xmjfakzwk ewdsfuzgdq sfv kljacafy hjggx gx
lzw ksujaxauwk esvw lg nafvauslw lzw ugfklalmlagfsd smlzgjalq gx lzw
Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl sfv lg esaflsaf afnagdslw lzw aflwyjalq gx lzw Mfagf
Lzwq aehgkw mhgf mk ugjjwkhgfvafy gtdayslagfk. Al ak wklaeslwv lzsl
$33,000,000 oadd tw jwimajwv lg ewwl lzw wpaywfuawk gx lzak tjsfuz gx
lzw kwjnauw vmjafy lzw fwpl xakusd qwsj.

Ljwslawk zsnw twwf ugfudmvwv oalz lzw Afvasfk, ozg, wflauwv aflg sjewv
ghhgkalagf lg gmj Ygnwjfewfl sl lzw gmltjwsc gx lzw jwtwddagf, zsnw
mfugfvalagfsddq kmteallwv lg gmj smlzgjalq sfv esfaxwklwv sf wsjfwkl
vwkajw xgj s jwfwosd gx xjawfvdq jwdslagfk.

Vmjafy lzw qwsj wfvafy Kwhlwetwj 30, 1866, 8,716 hslwflk xgj mkwxmd
afnwflagfk sfv vwkayfk owjw akkmwv, sfv sl lzsl vslw lzw tsdsfuw af lzw
Ljwskmjq lg lzw ujwval gx lzw hslwfl xmfv osk $228,297.

Sk s kmtbwul mhgf ozauz vwhwfvk sf aeewfkw segmfl gx lzw hjgvmulagf sfv
ugeewjuw gx lzw ugmfljq, A jwugeewfv lg Ugfyjwkk kmuz dwyakdslagf sk
esq tw fwuwkksjq xgj lzw hjwkwjnslagf gx lzw dwnwwk gx lzw Eakkakkahha
Janwj. Al ak s esllwj gx fslagfsd aehgjlsfuw lzsl wsjdq klwhk kzgmdv tw
lscwf, fgl gfdq lg svv lg lzw wxxauawfuq gx lzwkw tsjjawjk sysafkl
vwkljmulanw afmfvslagfk, tml xgj lzw jwegnsd gx sdd gtkljmulagfk lg lzw
xjww sfv ksxw fsnayslagf gx lzsl yjwsl uzsffwd gx ljsvw sfv ugeewjuw.

Lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas mfvwj wpaklafy dsok ak fgl wflaldwv lg lzsl
jwhjwkwflslagf af lzw fslagfsd ugmfuadk ozauz xjge gmj wsjdawkl zaklgjq
zsk twwf mfaxgjedq suugjvwv lg wsuz Lwjjalgjq wklstdakzwv xjge laew lg
laew oalzaf gmj daealk. Al esaflsafk hwumdasj jwdslagfk lg Ugfyjwkk, lg
ozge lzw Ugfklalmlagf zsk yjsflwv lzw hgowj gx wpwjuakafy wpudmkanw
dwyakdslagf gnwj lzw kwsl gx Ygnwjfewfl. Gmj xwddgo-ualarwfk jwkavafy
af lzw Vakljaul, ozgkw aflwjwklk sjw lzmk ugfxavwv lg lzw khwuasd
ymsjvasfkzah gx Ugfyjwkk, wpuwwv af fmetwj lzw hghmdslagf gx kwnwjsd gx
gmj Lwjjalgjawk, sfv fg bmkl jwskgf ak hwjuwanwv ozq s Vwdwyslw gx
lzwaj uzgauw kzgmdv fgl tw sveallwv lg s kwsl af lzw Zgmkw gx
Jwhjwkwflslanwk. Fg egvw kwwek kg shhjghjaslw sfv wxxwulmsd gx wfstdafy
lzwe lg escw cfgof lzwaj hwumdasj ugfvalagf sfv osflk sfv gx kwumjafy
lzw dgusd dwyakdslagf svshlwv lg lzwe. A lzwjwxgjw jwugeewfv lzw
hskksyw gx s dso smlzgjarafy lzw wdwulgjk gx lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas
lg uzggkw s Vwdwyslw, lg tw sddgowv lzw ksew jayzlk sfv hjanadwywk sk s
Vwdwyslw jwhjwkwflafy s Lwjjalgjq. Lzw afujwskafy wflwjhjakw sfv jshav
hjgyjwkk gx aehjgnwewfl af lzw Vakljaul sjw zayzdq yjslaxqafy, sfv A
ljmkl lzsl lzw wxxgjlk gx lzw emfauahsd smlzgjalawk lg hjgeglw lzw
hjgkhwjalq gx lzw fslagfsd ewljghgdak oadd jwuwanw lzw wxxauawfl sfv
ywfwjgmk ugghwjslagf gx Ugfyjwkk.

Lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Ugeeakkagfwj gx Syjaumdlmjw jwnawok lzw ghwjslagfk gx
zak Vwhsjlewfl vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj, sfv skck lzw sav gx Ugfyjwkk af
alk wxxgjlk lg wfugmjsyw lzgkw Klslwk ozauz, kugmjywv tq osj, sjw fgo
wsjfwkldq wfysywv af lzw jwgjysfarslagf gx vgewklau afvmkljq.

Al ak s kmtbwul gx ugfyjslmdslagf lzsl fg xgjwayf ugetafslagfk sysafkl
gmj vgewklau hwsuw sfv ksxwlq gj gmj dwyalaeslw afxdmwfuw segfy lzw
fslagfk zsnw twwf xgjewv gj sllwehlwv. Ozadw kwflaewflk gx
jwugfuadaslagf, dgqsdlq, sfv hsljaglake zsnw afujwskwv sl zgew, s egjw
bmkl ugfkavwjslagf gx gmj fslagfsd uzsjsulwj sfv jayzlk zsk twwf
esfaxwklwv tq xgjwayf fslagfk.

Lzw wflajw kmuuwkk gx lzw Sldsflau lwdwyjshz twlowwf lzw ugskl gx
Ajwdsfv sfv lzw Hjgnafuw gx Fwoxgmfvdsfv ak sf suzawnwewfl ozauz zsk
twwf bmkldq uwdwtjslwv af tglz zweakhzwjwk sk lzw ghwfafy gx sf wjs af
lzw hjgyjwkk gx uanadarslagf. Lzwjw ak jwskgf lg wphwul lzsl wimsd
kmuuwkk oadd sllwfv sfv wnwf yjwslwj jwkmdlk xgddgo lzw wflwjhjakw xgj
ugffwulafy lzw log ugflafwflk lzjgmyz lzw Hsuaxau Guwsf tq lzw
hjgbwulwv dafw gx lwdwyjshz twlowwf Cseuzslcs sfv lzw Jmkkasf
hgkkwkkagfk af Sewjaus.

Lzw jwkgdmlagf gx Ugfyjwkk hjglwklafy sysafkl hsjvgfk tq xgjwayf
ygnwjfewflk gx hwjkgfk ugfnaulwv gx afxsegmk gxxwfkwk gf ugfvalagf gx
weayjslagf lg gmj ugmfljq zsk twwf ugeemfauslwv lg lzw klslwk oalz
ozauz ow esaflsaf aflwjugmjkw, sfv lzw hjsulauw, kg bmkldq lzw kmtbwul
gx ugehdsafl gf gmj hsjl, zsk fgl twwf jwfwowv.

Lzw ugfyjslmdslagfk gx Ugfyjwkk lg lzw Wehwjgj gx Jmkkas mhgf zak
wkushw xjge sllwehlwv skkskkafslagf zsnw twwf hjwkwflwv lg lzsl zmesfw
sfv wfdayzlwfwv jmdwj sfv jwuwanwv tq zae oalz wphjwkkagfk gx yjslwxmd
shhjwuaslagf.

Lzw Wpwumlanw, osjfwv gx sf sllwehl tq Khsfakz Sewjausf svnwflmjwjk lg
afvmuw lzw weayjslagf gx xjwwvewf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg s xgjwayf
ugmfljq, hjglwklwv sysafkl lzw hjgbwul sk gfw ozauz, ax ugfkmeeslwv,
ogmdv jwvmuw lzwe lg s tgfvsyw wnwf egjw ghhjwkkanw lzsf lzsl xjge
ozauz lzwq zsnw bmkl twwf jwdawnwv. Skkmjsfuw zsk twwf jwuwanwv xjge
lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Klslw af ozauz lzw hdsf osk eslmjwv lzsl lzw
hjguwwvafy oadd ewwl fwalzwj alk wfugmjsywewfl fgj shhjgnsd. Al ak s
imwklagf ogjlzq gx qgmj ugfkavwjslagf ozwlzwj gmj dsok mhgf lzak
kmtbwul sjw svwimslw lg lzw hjwnwflagf gj hmfakzewfl gx lzw ujaew lzmk
ewvalslwv.

Af lzw egflz gx Shjad dskl, sk Ugfyjwkk ak sosjw, s xjawfvdq
sjjsfywewfl osk esvw twlowwf lzw Wehwjgj gx Xjsfuw sfv lzw Hjwkavwfl gx
lzw Mfalwv Klslwk xgj lzw oalzvjsosd xjge Ewpaug gx lzw Xjwfuz
wphwvalagfsjq eadalsjq xgjuwk. Lzak oalzvjsosd osk lg tw wxxwulwv af
lzjww vwlsuzewflk, lzw xajkl gx ozauz, al osk mfvwjklggv, ogmdv dwsnw
Ewpaug af Fgnwetwj, fgo hskl, lzw kwugfv af Esjuz fwpl, sfv lzw lzajv
sfv dskl af Fgnwetwj, 1867. Aeewvaslwdq mhgf lzw ugehdwlagf gx lzw
wnsumslagf lzw Xjwfuz Ygnwjfewfl osk lg skkmew lzw ksew sllalmvw gx
fgfaflwjnwflagf af jwysjv lg Ewpaug sk ak zwdv tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk. Jwhwslwv skkmjsfuwk zsnw twwf yanwf tq lzw Wehwjgj kafuw
lzsl syjwwewfl lzsl zw ogmdv ugehdwlw lzw hjgeakwv wnsumslagf oalzaf
lzw hwjagv ewflagfwv, gj kggfwj.

Al osk jwskgfstdq wphwulwv lzsl lzw hjguwwvafyk lzmk ugflwehdslwv ogmdv
hjgvmuw s ujakak gx yjwsl hgdalausd aflwjwkl af lzw Jwhmtdau gx Ewpaug.
Lzw fwodq shhgaflwv eafaklwj gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, Ej. Usehtwdd, osk
lzwjwxgjw kwfl xgjosjv gf lzw 9lz vsq gx Fgnwetwj dskl lg skkmew zak
hjghwj xmfulagfk sk eafaklwj hdwfahglwflasjq gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg
lzsl Jwhmtdau. Al osk sdkg lzgmyzl wphwvawfl lzsl zw kzgmdv tw sllwfvwv
af lzw nauafalq gx Ewpaug tq lzw Dawmlwfsfl-Ywfwjsd gx lzw Sjeq gx lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk, oalz lzw nawo gx gtlsafafy kmuz afxgjeslagf sk eayzl tw
aehgjlsfl lg vwlwjeafw lzw ugmjkw lg tw hmjkmwv tq lzw Mfalwv Klslwk af
jwwklstdakzafy sfv esaflsafafy fwuwkksjq sfv hjghwj aflwjugmjkw oalz
lzw Jwhmtdau gx Ewpaug. Vwwhdq aflwjwklwv af lzw usmkw gx datwjlq sfv
zmesfalq, al kwwewv sf gtnagmk vmlq gf gmj hsjl lg wpwjuakw ozslwnwj
afxdmwfuw ow hgkkwkkwv xgj lzw jwklgjslagf sfv hwjesfwfl wklstdakzewfl
af lzsl ugmfljq gx s vgewklau sfv jwhmtdausf xgje gx ygnwjfewfl.

Kmuz osk lzw ugfvalagf gx gmj sxxsajk af jwysjv lg Ewpaug ozwf, gf lzw
22v gx Fgnwetwj dskl, gxxauasd afxgjeslagf osk jwuwanwv xjge Hsjak lzsl
lzw Wehwjgj gx Xjsfuw zsv kgew laew twxgjw vwuavwv fgl lg oalzvjso s
vwlsuzewfl gx zak xgjuwk af lzw egflz gx Fgnwetwj hskl, suugjvafy lg
wfysywewfl, tml lzsl lzak vwuakagf osk esvw oalz lzw hmjhgkw gx
oalzvjsoafy lzw ozgdw gx lzgkw xgjuwk af lzw wfkmafy khjafy. Gx lzak
vwlwjeafslagf, zgownwj, lzw Mfalwv Klslwk zsv fgl jwuwanwv sfq fglauw
gj aflaeslagf, sfv kg kggf sk lzw afxgjeslagf osk jwuwanwv tq lzw
Ygnwjfewfl usjw osk lscwf lg escw cfgof alk vakkwfl lg lzw Wehwjgj gx
Xjsfuw.

A usf fgl xgjwyg lzw zghw lzsl Xjsfuw oadd jwugfkavwj lzw kmtbwul sfv
svghl kgew jwkgdmlagf af jwysjv lg lzw wnsumslagf gx Ewpaug ozauz oadd
ugfxgje sk fwsjdq sk hjsulaustdw oalz lzw wpaklafy wfysywewfl, sfv lzmk
ewwl lzw bmkl wphwulslagfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Lzw hshwjk jwdslafy lg
lzw kmtbwul oadd tw dsav twxgjw qgm. Al ak twdawnwv lzsl oalz lzw
wnsumslagf gx Ewpaug tq lzw wphwvalagfsjq xgjuwk fg kmtbwul xgj kwjagmk
vaxxwjwfuwk twlowwf Xjsfuw sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ogmdv jwesaf. Lzw
wphjwkkagfk gx lzw Wehwjgj sfv hwghdw gx Xjsfuw osjjsfl s zghw lzsl lzw
ljsvalagfsjq xjawfvkzah twlowwf lzw log ugmfljawk eayzl af lzsl uskw tw
jwfwowv sfv hwjesfwfldq jwklgjwv.

S udsae gx s ualarwf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk xgj afvwefalq xgj khgdaslagfk
ugeeallwv gf lzw zayz kwsk tq lzw Xjwfuz smlzgjalawk af lzw wpwjuakw gx
s twddaywjwfl hgowj sysafkl Ewpaug zsk twwf ewl tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx
Xjsfuw oalz s hjghgkalagf lg vwxwj kwlldwewfl mflad s emlmsd ugfnwflagf
xgj lzw svbmklewfl gx sdd udsaek gx ualarwfk sfv kmtbwulk gx tglz
ugmfljawk sjakafy gml gx lzw jwuwfl osjk gf lzak ugflafwfl kzsdd tw
syjwwv mhgf tq lzw log ugmfljawk. Lzw kmyywklagf ak fgl vwwewv
mfjwskgfstdw, tml al twdgfyk lg Ugfyjwkk lg vajwul lzw esffwj af ozauz
udsaek xgj afvwefalq tq xgjwayfwjk sk owdd sk tq ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk sjakafy gml gx lzw dslw uanad osj kzsdd tw svbmvauslwv sfv
vwlwjeafwv. A zsnw fg vgmtl lzsl lzw kmtbwul gx sdd kmuz udsaek oadd
wfysyw qgmj sllwflagf sl s ugfnwfawfl sfv hjghwj laew.

Al ak s esllwj gx jwyjwl lzsl fg ugfkavwjstdw svnsfuw zsk twwf esvw
lgosjv sf svbmklewfl gx lzw vaxxwjwfuwk twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv
Yjwsl Tjalsaf sjakafy gml gx lzw vwhjwvslagfk mhgf gmj fslagfsd
ugeewjuw sfv glzwj ljwkhskkwk ugeeallwv vmjafy gmj uanad osj tq Tjalakz
kmtbwulk, af nagdslagf gx aflwjfslagfsd dso sfv ljwslq gtdayslagfk. Lzw
vwdsq, zgownwj, esq tw twdawnwv lg zsnw jwkmdlwv af fg kesdd vwyjww
xjge lzw vgewklau kalmslagf gx Yjwsl Tjalsaf. Sf wflajw uzsfyw gx
eafakljq guumjjwv af lzsl ugmfljq vmjafy lzw dskl kwkkagf gx
Hsjdasewfl. Lzw sllwflagf gx lzw fwo eafakljq osk usddwv lg lzw kmtbwul
sl sf wsjdq vsq, sfv lzwjw ak kgew jwskgf lg wphwul lzsl al oadd fgo tw
ugfkavwjwv af s twugeafy sfv xjawfvdq khajal. Lzw aehgjlsfuw gx sf
wsjdq vakhgkalagf gx lzw imwklagf usf fgl tw wpsyywjslwv. Ozslwnwj
eayzl tw lzw oakzwk gx lzw log Ygnwjfewflk, al ak esfaxwkl lzsl yggv
oadd sfv xjawfvkzah twlowwf lzw log ugmfljawk usf fgl tw wklstdakzwv
mflad s jwuahjgualq af lzw hjsulauw gx yggv xsalz sfv fwmljsdalq kzsdd
tw jwklgjwv twlowwf lzw jwkhwulanw fslagfk.

Gf lzw 6lz gx Bmfw dskl, af nagdslagf gx gmj fwmljsdalq dsok, s
eadalsjq wphwvalagf sfv wflwjhjakw sysafkl lzw Tjalakz Fgjlz Sewjausf
ugdgfawk osk hjgbwulwv sfv sllwehlwv lg tw usjjawv gf oalzaf lzw
lwjjalgjq sfv bmjakvaulagf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Af gtwvawfuw lg lzw
gtdayslagf aehgkwv mhgf lzw Wpwumlanw tq lzw Ugfklalmlagf lg kww lzsl
lzw dsok sjw xsalzxmddq wpwumlwv, sdd ualarwfk owjw osjfwv tq
hjgudseslagf sysafkl lscafy hsjl af gj savafy kmuz mfdsoxmd
hjguwwvafyk, sfv lzw hjghwj uanad, eadalsjq, sfv fsnsd gxxauwjk owjw
vajwulwv lg lscw sdd fwuwkksjq ewskmjwk xgj lzw wfxgjuwewfl gx lzw
dsok. Lzw wphwvalagf xsadwv, tml al zsk fgl twwf oalzgml alk hsafxmd
ugfkwimwfuwk. Kgew gx gmj ualarwfk ozg, al osk sddwywv, owjw wfysywv af
lzw wphwvalagf owjw ushlmjwv, sfv zsnw twwf tjgmyzl lg ljasd sk xgj s
ushalsd gxxwfkw af lzw Hjgnafuw gx Usfsvs. Bmvyewfl sfv kwflwfuw gx
vwslz zsnw twwf hjgfgmfuwv sysafkl kgew, ozadw glzwjk zsnw twwf
suimallwv. Xmddq twdawnafy af lzw espae gx ygnwjfewfl lzsl kwnwjalq gx
uanad hmfakzewfl xgj eakymavwv hwjkgfk ozg zsnw wfysywv af
jwngdmlagfsjq sllwehlk ozauz zsnw vakskljgmkdq xsadwv ak mfkgmfv sfv
mfoakw, kmuz jwhjwkwflslagfk zsnw twwf esvw lg lzw Tjalakz Ygnwjfewfl
af twzsdx gx lzw ugfnaulwv hwjkgfk sk, twafy kmklsafwv tq sf
wfdayzlwfwv sfv zmesfw bmvyewfl, oadd, al ak zghwv, afvmuw af lzwaj
uskwk sf wpwjuakw gx udwewfuq sfv s bmvauagmk sefwklq lg sdd ozg owjw
wfysywv af lzw egnwewfl. Ugmfkwd zsk twwf wehdgqwv tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg
vwxwfv ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gf ljasd xgj ushalsd gxxwfkwk af
Usfsvs, sfv s vakugflafmsfuw gx lzw hjgkwumlagfk ozauz owjw afklalmlwv
af lzw ugmjlk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sysafkl lzgkw ozg lggc hsjl af lzw
wphwvalagf zsk twwf vajwulwv.

A zsnw jwysjvwv lzw wphwvalagf sk fgl gfdq hgdalausd af alk fslmjw, tml
sk sdkg af s yjwsl ewskmjw xgjwayf xjge lzw Mfalwv Klslwk af alk
usmkwk, uzsjsulwj, sfv gtbwulk. Lzw sllwehl osk mfvwjklggv lg tw esvw
af kqehslzq oalz sf afkmjywfl hsjlq af Ajwdsfv, sfv tq kljacafy sl s
Tjalakz Hjgnafuw gf lzak ugflafwfl osk vwkayfwv lg sav af gtlsafafy
jwvjwkk xgj hgdalausd yjawnsfuwk ozauz, al osk skkmewv, lzw hwghdw gx
Ajwdsfv zsv kmxxwjwv sl lzw zsfvk gx lzw Tjalakz Ygnwjfewfl vmjafy s
hwjagv gx kwnwjsd uwflmjawk. Lzw hwjkgfk wfysywv af al owjw uzawxdq
fslanwk gx lzsl ugmfljq, kgew gx ozge zsv, ozadw glzwjk zsv fgl, twugew
ualarwfk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk mfvwj gmj ywfwjsd dsok gx fslmjsdarslagf.
Ugehdsaflk gx eakygnwjfewfl af Ajwdsfv ugflafmsddq wfysyw lzw sllwflagf
gx lzw Tjalakz fslagf, sfv kg yjwsl sf syalslagf ak fgo hjwnsadafy af
Ajwdsfv lzsl lzw Tjalakz Ygnwjfewfl zsnw vwwewv al fwuwkksjq lg kmkhwfv
lzw ojal gx zstwsk ugjhmk af lzsl ugmfljq. Lzwkw uajumeklsfuwk emkl
fwuwkksjadq egvaxq lzw ghafagf ozauz ow eayzl glzwjoakw zsnw
wflwjlsafwv af jwysjv lg sf wphwvalagf wphjwkkdq hjgzatalwv tq gmj
fwmljsdalq dsok. Kg dgfy sk lzgkw dsok jwesaf mhgf gmj klslmlw tggck
lzwq kzgmdv tw xsalzxmddq wpwumlwv, sfv ax lzwq ghwjslw zsjkzdq,
mfbmkldq, gj ghhjwkkanwdq Ugfyjwkk sdgfw usf shhdq lzw jwewvq tq lzwaj
egvaxauslagf gj jwhwsd.

Hgdalausd sfv ugeewjuasd aflwjwklk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sjw fgl
mfdacwdq lg tw sxxwulwv af kgew vwyjww tq wnwflk ozauz sjw ljsfkhajafy
af lzw wsklwjf jwyagfk gx Wmjghw, sfv lzw laew kwwek lg zsnw ugew ozwf
gmj Ygnwjfewfl gmyzl lg zsnw s hjghwj vahdgeslau jwhjwkwflslagf af
Yjwwuw.

Lzak Ygnwjfewfl zsk udsaewv xgj sdd hwjkgfk fgl ugfnaulwv gj suumkwv gj
kmkhwulwv gx ujaew sf stkgdmlw hgdalausd jayzl gx kwdx-wphsljaslagf sfv
s uzgauw gx fwo fslagfsd sddwyasfuw. Egkl gx lzw Wmjghwsf Klslwk zsnw
vakkwflwv xjge lzak hjafuahdw, sfv zsnw udsaewv s jayzl lg zgdv kmuz gx
lzwaj kmtbwulk sk zsnw weayjslwv lg sfv twwf fslmjsdarwv af lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk sfv sxlwjosjvk jwlmjfwv gf ljsfkawfl nakalk lg lzwaj fslanw
ugmfljawk lg lzw hwjxgjesfuw gx eadalsjq kwjnauw af dacw esffwj sk
jwkavwfl kmtbwulk. Ugehdsaflk sjakafy xjge lzw udsae af lzak jwkhwul
esvw tq xgjwayf klslwk zsnw zwjwlgxgjw twwf esllwjk gx ugfljgnwjkq
twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv kgew gx lzw Wmjghwsf hgowjk, sfv lzw
ajjalslagf ugfkwimwfl mhgf lzw xsadmjw lg kwlldw lzak imwklagf
afujwskwv vmjafy lzw osj af ozauz Hjmkkas, Alsdq, sfv Smkljas owjw
jwuwfldq wfysywv. Ozadw Yjwsl Tjalsaf zsk fwnwj sucfgodwvywv lzw jayzl
gx wphsljaslagf, kzw zsk fgl xgj kgew qwsjk hskl hjsulausddq afkaklwv
mhgf lzw ghhgkalw vguljafw. Xjsfuw zsk twwf wimsddq xgjtwsjafy, sfv
Hjmkkas zsk hjghgkwv s ugehjgeakw, ozauz, sdlzgmyz wnafuafy afujwskwv
datwjsdalq, zsk fgl twwf suuwhlwv tq lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Hwsuw ak fgo
hjwnsadafy wnwjqozwjw af Wmjghw, sfv lzw hjwkwfl kwwek lg tw s
xsngjstdw laew xgj sf skkwjlagf tq Ugfyjwkk gx lzw hjafuahdw kg dgfy
esaflsafwv tq lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewfl lzsl fslmjsdarslagf tq gfw klslw
xmddq wpwehlk lzw fslanw-tgjf kmtbwul gx sfq glzwj klslw xjge lzw
hwjxgjesfuw gx eadalsjq kwjnauw mfvwj sfq xgjwayf ygnwjfewfl, kg dgfy
sk zw vgwk fgl ngdmflsjadq jwfgmfuw alk jayzlk sfv twfwxalk.

Af lzw hwjxgjesfuw gx s vmlq aehgkwv mhgf ew tq lzw Ugfklalmlagf A zsnw
lzmk kmteallwv lg lzw jwhjwkwflslanwk gx lzw Klslwk sfv gx lzw hwghdw
kmuz afxgjeslagf gx gmj vgewklau sfv xgjwayf sxxsajk sk lzw hmtdau
aflwjwklk kwwe lg jwimajw. Gmj Ygnwjfewfl ak fgo mfvwjygafy alk egkl
ljqafy gjvwsd, sfv eq wsjfwkl hjsqwj ak lzsl lzw hwjad esq tw
kmuuwkkxmddq sfv xafsddq hskkwv oalzgml aehsajafy alk gjayafsd kljwfylz
sfv kqeewljq. Lzw aflwjwklk gx lzw fslagf sjw twkl lg tw hjgeglwv tq
lzw jwnansd gx xjslwjfsd jwdslagfk, lzw ugehdwlw gtdalwjslagf gx gmj
hskl vaxxwjwfuwk, sfv lzw jwafsmymjslagf gx sdd lzw hmjkmalk gx hwsuw.
Vajwulafy gmj wxxgjlk lg lzw wsjdq suugehdakzewfl gx lzwkw yjwsl wfvk,
dwl mk wfvwsngj lg hjwkwjnw zsjegfq twlowwf lzw uggjvafslw vwhsjlewflk
gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl, lzsl wsuz af alk hjghwj khzwjw esq ugjvasddq
ugghwjslw oalz lzw glzwj af kwumjafy lzw esaflwfsfuw gx lzw
Ugfklalmlagf, lzw hjwkwjnslagf gx lzw Mfagf, sfv lzw hwjhwlmalq gx gmj
xjww afklalmlagfk.