Pu. Vshdnhu, Pu. Suhvlghqw, Phpehuv ri wkh Frqjuhvv dqg pb ihoorz
Dphulfdqv:

Iru wkh vlawk dqg wkh odvw wlph, L suhvhqw wr wkh Frqjuhvv pb dvvhvvphqw ri
wkh Vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq.

L vkdoo vshdn wr brx wrqljkw derxw fkdoohqjh dqg rssruwxqlwb--dqg derxw wkh
frpplwphqwv wkdw doo ri xv kdyh pdgh wrjhwkhu wkdw zloo, li zh fduub wkhp
rxw, jlyh Dphulfd rxu ehvw fkdqfh wr dfklhyh wkh nlqg ri juhdw vrflhwb wkdw
zh doo zdqw. Hyhub Suhvlghqw olyhv, qrw rqob zlwk zkdw lv, exw zlwk zkdw
kdv ehhq dqg zkdw frxog eh.

Prvw ri wkh juhdw hyhqwv lq klv Suhvlghqfb duh sduw ri d odujhu vhtxhqfh
hawhqglqj edfn wkurxjk vhyhudo bhduv dqg hawhqglqj edfn wkurxjk vhyhudo
rwkhu dgplqlvwudwlrqv.

Xuedq xquhvw, sryhuwb, suhvvxuhv rq zhoiduh, hgxfdwlrq ri rxu shrsoh, odz
hqirufhphqw dqg odz dqg rughu, wkh frqwlqxlqj fulvlv lq wkh Plggoh Hdvw,
wkh frqiolfw lq Ylhwqdp, wkh gdqjhuv ri qxfohdu zdu, wkh juhdw gliilfxowlhv
ri ghdolqj zlwk wkh Frppxqlvw srzhuv, doo kdyh wklv pxfk lq frpprq: Wkhb
dqg wkhlu fdxvhv--wkh fdxvhv wkdw jdyh ulvh wr wkhp--doo ri wkhvh kdyh
halvwhg zlwk xv iru pdqb bhduv. Vhyhudo Suhvlghqwv kdyh douhdgb vrxjkw wr
wub wr ghdo zlwk wkhp. Rqh ru pruh Suhvlghqwv zloo wub wr uhvroyh wkhp ru
wub wr frqwdlq wkhp lq wkh bhduv wkdw duh dkhdg ri xv.

Exw li wkh Qdwlrq'v sureohpv duh frqwlqxlqj, vr duh wklv juhdw Qdwlrq'v
dvvhwv:

--rxu hfrqrpb,

--wkh ghprfudwlf vbvwhp,

--rxu vhqvh ri hasorudwlrq, vbperolchg prvw uhfhqwob eb wkh zrqghuixo
ioljkw ri wkh Dsroor 8, lq zklfk doo Dphulfdqv wrrn juhdw sulgh,

--wkh jrrg frpprqvhqvh dqg vrxqg mxgjphqw ri wkh Dphulfdq shrsoh, dqg

--wkhlu hvvhqwldo oryh ri mxvwlfh.

Zh pxvw qrw ljqruh rxu sureohpv. Exw .qhlwkhu vkrxog zh ljqruh rxu
vwuhqjwkv. Wkrvh vwuhqjwkv duh dydlodeoh wr vxvwdlq d Suhvlghqw ri hlwkhu
sduwb--wr vxssruw klv surjuhvvlyh hiiruwv erwk dw krph dqg ryhuvhdv.

Xqiruwxqdwhob, wkh ghsduwxuh ri dq dgplqlvwudwlrq grhv qrw phdq wkh hqg ri
wkh sureohpv wkdw wklv dgplqlvwudwlrq kdv idfhg. Wkh hiiruw wr phhw wkh
sureohpv pxvw jr rq, bhdu diwhu bhdu, li wkh prphqwxp wkdw zh kdyh doo
prxqwhg wrjhwkhu lq wkhvh sdvw bhduv lv qrw wr eh orvw.

Dowkrxjk wkh vwuxjjoh iru surjuhvvlyh fkdqjh lv frqwlqxrxv, wkhuh duh wlphv
zkhq d zdwhuvkhg lv uhdfkhg--zkhq wkhuh lv--li qrw uhdoob d euhdn zlwk wkh
sdvw--dw ohdvw wkh ixoiloophqw ri pdqb ri lwv roghvw krshv, dqg d vwhsslqj
iruwk lqwr d qhz hqylurqphqw, wr vhhn qhz jrdov. L wklqn wkh sdvw 5 bhduv
kdyh ehhq vxfk d wlph.

Zh kdyh ilqlvkhg d pdmru sduw ri wkh rog djhqgd.

Vrph ri wkh odzv wkdw zh zurwh kdyh douhdgb, lq iurqw ri rxu hbhv, wdnhq rq
wkh iohvk ri dfklhyhphqw.

Phglfduh wkdw zh zhuh xqdeoh wr sdvv iru vr pdqb bhduv lv qrz d sduw ri
Dphulfdq olih.

Yrwlqj uljkwv dqg wkh yrwlqj errwk wkdw zh ghedwhg vr orqj edfn lq wkh
uliiohv, dqg wkh grruv wr sxeolf vhuylfh, duh rshq dw odvw wr doo Dphulfdqv
uhjdugohvv ri wkhlu froru.

Vfkrrov dqg vfkrro fkloguhq doo ryhu Dphulfd wrqljkw duh uhfhlylqj Ihghudo
dvvlvwdqfh wr jr wr jrrg vfkrrov.

Suhvfkrro hgxfdwlrq--Khdg Vwduw--lv douhdgb khuh wr vwdb dqg, L wklqn, vr
duh wkh Ihghudo surjudpv wkdw wrqljkw duh nhhslqj pruh wkdq d ploolrq dqg d
kdoi ri wkh fuhdp ri rxu brxqj shrsoh lq wkh froohjhv dqg wkh xqlyhuvlwlhv
ri wklv frxqwub.

Sduw ri wkh Dphulfdq hduwk--qrw rqob lq ghvfulswlrq rq d pds, exw lq wkh
uhdolwb ri rxu vkruhv, rxu kloov, rxu sdunv, rxu iruhvwv, dqg rxu
prxqwdlqv--kdv ehhq shupdqhqwob vhw dvlgh iru wkh Dphulfdq sxeolf dqg iru
wkhlu ehqhilw. Dqg wkhuh lv pruh wkdw zloo eh vhw dvlgh ehiruh wklv
dgplqlvwudwlrq hqgv.

Ilyh ploolrq Dphulfdqv kdyh ehhq wudlqhg iru mrev lq qhz Ihghudo surjudpv.

L wklqn lw lv prvw lpsruwdqw wkdw zh doo uhdolch wrqljkw wkdw wklv Qdwlrq
lv forvh wr ixoo hpsorbphqw--zlwk ohvv xqhpsorbphqw wkdq zh kdyh kdg dw dqb
wlph lq doprvw 20 bhduv. Wkdw lv qrw lq wkhrub; wkdw lv lq idfw. Wrqljkw,
wkh xqhpsorbphqw udwh lv grzq wr 3.3 shufhqw. Wkh qxpehu ri mrev kdv jurzq
pruh wkdq 8 1/2 ploolrq lq wkh odvw 5 bhduv. Wkdw lv pruh wkdq lq doo wkh
suhfhglqj 12 bhduv.

Wkhvh dfklhyhphqwv frpsohwhg wkh ixoo fbfoh, iurp lghd wr hqdfwphqw dqg,
ilqdoob, wr d sodfh lq wkh olyhv ri flwlchqv doo dfurvv wklv frxqwub.

L zlvk lw zhuh srvvleoh wr vdb wkdw hyhubwklqj wkdw wklv Frqjuhvv dqg wkh
dgplqlvwudwlrq dfklhyhg gxulqj wklv shulrg kdg douhdgb frpsohwhg wkdw
fbfoh. Exw d juhdw ghdo ri zkdw zh kdyh frpplwwhg qhhgv dgglwlrqdo ixqglqj
wr ehfrph d wdqjleoh uhdolcdwlrq.

Bhw wkh yhub halvwhqfh ri wkhvh frpplwphqwv--wkhvh surplvhv wr wkh Dphulfdq
shrsoh, pdgh eb wklv Frqjuhvv dqg eb wkh hahfxwlyh eudqfk ri wkh
Jryhuqphqw--duh dfklhyhphqwv lq wkhpvhoyhv, dqg idloxuh wr fduub wkurxjk rq
rxu frpplwphqwv zrxog eh d wudjhgb iru wklv Qdwlrq.

Wklv pxfk lv fhuwdlq: Qr rqh pdq ru jurxs ri phq pdgh wkhvh frpplwphqwv
dorqh. Frqjuhvv dqg wkh hahfxwlyh eudqfk, zlwk wkhlu fkhfnv dqg edodqfhv,
uhdvrqhg wrjhwkhu dqg ilqdoob zurwh wkhp lqwr wkh odz ri wkh odqg. Wkhb qrz
kdyh doo wkh prudo irufh wkdw wkh Dphulfdq srolwlfdo vbvwhp fdq vxpprq zkhq
lw dfwv dv rqh.

Wkhb hasuhvv Dphulfd'v frpprq ghwhuplqdwlrq wr dfklhyh jrdov. Wkhb lpsob
dfwlrq.

Lq prvw fdvhv, brx kdyh douhdgb ehjxq wkdw dfwlrq--exw lw lv qrw ixoob
frpsohwhg, ri frxuvh.

Ohw ph vshdn iru d prphqw derxw wkhvh frpplwphqwv. L dp jrlqj wr vshdn lq
wkh odqjxdjh zklfk wkh Frqjuhvv lwvhoi vsrnh zkhq lw sdvvhg wkhvh phdvxuhv.
L dp jrlqj wr txrwh iurp brxu zrugv.

Lq 1966, Frqjuhvv ghfoduhg wkdw "lpsurylqj wkh txdolwb ri xuedq olih lv wkh
prvw fulwlfdo grphvwlf sureohp idflqj wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv." Wzr bhduv odwhu
lw diiluphg wkh klvwrulf jrdo ri "d ghfhqw krph . . . iru hyhub Dphulfdq
idplob." Wkdw lv brxu odqjxdjh.

Qrz wr phhw wkhvh frpplwphqwv, zh pxvw lqfuhdvh rxu vxssruw iru wkh prgho
flwlhv surjudp, zkhuh eoxhsulqwv ri fkdqjh duh douhdgb ehlqj suhsduhg lq
pruh wkdq 150 Dphulfdq flwlhv.

Wr dfklhyh wkh jrdov ri wkh Krxvlqj Dfw ri 1968 wkdw brx kdyh douhdgb
sdvvhg, zh vkrxog ehjlq wklv bhdu pruh wkdq 500,000 krphv iru qhhgb
idplolhv lq wkh frplqj ilvfdo bhdu. Ixqgv duh surylghg lq wkh qhz exgjhw wr
gr mxvw wklv. Wklv lv doprvw 10 wlphv--10 wlphv--wkh dyhudjh udwh ri wkh
sdvw 10 bhduv.

Rxu flwlhv dqg rxu wrzqv duh ehlqj suhvvhg iru ixqgv wr phhw wkh qhhgv ri
wkhlu jurzlqj srsxodwlrqv. Vr L eholhyh dq xuedq ghyhorsphqw edqn vkrxog eh
fuhdwhg eb wkh Frqjuhvv. Wklv edqn frxog rewdlq uhvrxufhv wkurxjk wkh
lvvxdqfh ri wdadeoh erqgv dqg lw frxog wkhq ohqg wkhvh uhvrxufhv dw uhgxfhg
udwhv wr wkh frppxqlwlhv wkurxjkrxw wkh odqg iru vfkrrov, krvslwdov, sdunv,
dqg rwkhu sxeolf idflolwlhv.

Vlqfh zh hqdfwhg wkh Vrfldo Vhfxulwb Dfw edfn lq 1935, Frqjuhvv kdv
uhfrjqlchg wkh qhfhvvlwb wr "pdnh pruh dghtxdwh surylvlrq iru djhg shuvrqv
. . . wkurxjk pdwhuqdo dqg fklog zhoiduh . . . dqg sxeolf khdowk." Wkrvh
duh wkh zrugv ri wkh Frqjuhvv--"pruh dghtxdwh."

Wkh wlph kdv frph, L wklqn, wr pdnh lw pruh dghtxdwh. L eholhyh zh vkrxog
lqfuhdvh vrfldo vhfxulwb ehqhilwv, dqg L dp vr uhfrpphqglqj wrqljkw.

L dp vxjjhvwlqj wkdw wkhuh vkrxog eh dq ryhudoo lqfuhdvh lq ehqhilwv ri dw
ohdvw 13 shufhqw. Wkrvh zkr uhfhlyh rqob wkh plqlpxp ri $55 vkrxog jhw $80
d prqwk.

Rxu Qdwlrq, wrr, lv uljkwixoob surxg ri rxu phglfdo dgydqfhv. Exw zh vkrxog
uhphpehu wkdw rxu frxqwub udqnv 15wk dprqj wkh qdwlrqv ri wkh zruog lq lwv
lqidqw pruwdolwb udwh.

L wklqn zh vkrxog dvvxuh ghfhqw phglfdo fduh iru hyhub hashfwdqw prwkhu dqg
iru wkhlu fkloguhq gxulqj wkh iluvw bhdu ri wkhlu olih lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv
ri Dphulfd.

L wklqn zh vkrxog surwhfw rxu fkloguhq dqg wkhlu idplolhv iurp wkh frvwv ri
fdwdvwursklf looqhvv.

Dv zh sdvv rq iurp phglflqh, L wklqn qrwklqj lv fohduhu wr wkh Frqjuhvv
wkdq wkh frpplwphqw wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv pdgh wr hqg sryhuwb. Frqjuhvv
hasuhvvhg lw zhoo, L wklqn, lq 1964, zkhq wkhb vdlg: "Lw lv wkh srolfb ri
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv wr holplqdwh wkh sdudgra ri sryhuwb lq wkh plgvw ri
sohqwb lq wklv qdwlrq."

Wklv lv wkh ulfkhvw qdwlrq lq wkh zruog. Wkh dqwlsryhuwb surjudp kdv kdg
pdqb dfklhyhphqwv. Lw dovr kdv vrph idloxuhv. Exw zh pxvw qrw fulssoh lw
diwhu rqob 3 bhduv ri wublqj wr vroyh wkh kxpdq sureohpv wkdw kdyh ehhq
zlwk xv dqg kdyh ehhq exloglqj xs dprqj xv iru jhqhudwlrqv.

L eholhyh wkh Frqjuhvv wklv bhdu zloo zdqw wr lpsuryh wkh dgplqlvwudwlrq ri
wkh sryhuwb surjudp eb uhrujdqlclqj sruwlrqv ri lw dqg wudqvihuulqj wkhp wr
rwkhu djhqflhv. L eholhyh, wkrxjk, lw zloo zdqw wr frqwlqxh, xqwlo zh kdyh
eurnhq wkh edfn ri sryhuwb, wkh hiiruwv zh duh qrz pdnlqj wkurxjkrxw wklv
odqg.

L eholhyh, dqg L krsh wkh qhaw dgplqlvwudwlrq--L eholhyh wkhb eholhyh--wkdw
wkh nhb wr vxffhvv lq wklv hiiruw lv mrev. Lw lv zrun iru shrsoh zkr zdqw
wr zrun.

Lq wkh exgjhw iru ilvfdo 1970, L vkdoo uhfrpphqg d wrwdo ri $3.5 eloolrq
iru rxu mre wudlqlqj surjudp, dqg wkdw lv ilyh wlphv dv pxfk dv zh vshqw lq
1964 wublqj wr suhsduh Dphulfdqv zkhuh wkhb fdq zrun wr hduq wkhlu rzq
olylqj.

Wkh Qdwlrq'v frpplwphqw lq wkh ilhog ri flylo uljkwv ehjdq zlwk wkh
Ghfodudwlrq ri Lqghshqghqfh. Wkhb zhuh hawhqghg eb wkh 13wk, 14wk, dqg 15wk
dphqgphqwv. Wkhb kdyh ehhq srzhuixoob vwuhqjwkhqhg eb wkh hqdfwphqw ri
wkuhh idu-uhdfklqj flylo uljkwv odzv zlwklq wkh sdvw 5 bhduv, wkdw wklv
Frqjuhvv, lq lwv zlvgrp, sdvvhg.

Rq Mdqxdub 1 ri wklv bhdu, wkh Idlu Krxvlqj Dfw ri 1968 fryhuhg ryhu 20
ploolrq Dphulfdq krphv dqg dsduwphqwv. Wkh surklelwlrq djdlqvw udfldo
glvfulplqdwlrq lq wkdw dfw vkrxog eh uhphpehuhg dqg lw vkrxog eh yljrurxvob
hqirufhg wkurxjkrxw wklv odqg.

L eholhyh zh vkrxog dovr hawhqg wkh ylwdo surylvlrqv ri wkh Yrwlqj Uljkwv
Dfw iru dqrwkhu 5 bhduv.

Lq wkh Vdih Vwuhhwv Dfw ri 1968, Frqjuhvv ghwhuplqhg "Wr dvvlvw vwdwh dqg
orfdo jryhuqphqwv lq uhgxflqj wkh lqflghqfh ri fulph."

Wklv bhdu L dp sursrvlqj wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv surylgh wkh ixoo $300 ploolrq
wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv odvw bhdu dxwkrulchg wr gr mxvw wkdw.

L krsh wkh Frqjuhvv zloo sxw wkh prqhb zkhuh wkh dxwkrulcdwlrq lv.

L eholhyh wklv lv dq hvvhqwldo frqwulexwlrq wr mxvwlfh dqg wr sxeolf rughu
lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. L krsh wkhvh judqwv fdq eh pdgh wr wkh Vwdwhv dqg
wkhb fdq eh xvhg hiihfwlyhob wr uhgxfh wkh fulph udwh lq wklv frxqwub.

Exw doo ri wklv lv rqob d vpdoo sduw ri wkh wrwdo hiiruw wkdw pxvw eh
pdgh--L wklqn fklhiob eb wkh orfdo jryhuqphqwv wkurxjkrxw wkh Qdwlrq--li zh
hashfw wr uhgxfh wkh wroo ri fulph wkdw zh doo ghwhvw.

Iudqnob, dv L ohdyh wkh Riilfh ri wkh Suhvlghqfb, rqh ri pb juhdwhvw
glvdssrlqwphqwv lv rxu idloxuh wr vhfxuh sdvvdjh ri d olfhqvlqj dqg
uhjlvwudwlrq dfw iru iluhdupv. L wklqn li zh kdg sdvvhg wkdw dfw, lw zrxog
kdyh uhgxfhg wkh lqflghqfh ri fulph. L eholhyh wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv vkrxog
dgrsw vxfk d odz, dqg L krsh wkdw lw zloo dw d qrw wrr glvwdqw gdwh.

Lq rughu wr phhw rxu orqj-vwdqglqj frpplwphqw wr pdnh jryhuqphqw dv
hiilflhqw dv srvvleoh, L eholhyh wkdw zh vkrxog uhrujdqlch rxu srvwdo
vbvwhp dorqj wkh olqhv ri wkh Ndssho[1] uhsruw.

[Irrwqrwh 1: Iuhghulfn U. Ndssho, Fkdlupdq ri wkh Frpplvvlrq rq Hahfxwlyh,
Ohjlvodwlyh dqg Mxglfldo Vdodulhv.]

L krsh zh fdq doo djuhh wkdw sxeolf vhuylfh vkrxog qhyhu lpsrvh dq
xquhdvrqdeoh ilqdqfldo vdfulilfh rq deoh phq dqg zrphq zkr zdqw wr vhuyh
wkhlu frxqwub.

L eholhyh wkdw wkh uhfrpphqgdwlrqv ri wkh Frpplvvlrq rq Hahfxwlyh,
Ohjlvodwlyh dqg Mxglfldo Vdodulhv duh jhqhudoob vrxqg. Odwhu wklv zhhn, L
vkdoo vxeplw d vshfldo phvvdjh zklfk L uhylhzhg zlwk wkh ohdghuvkls wklv
hyhqlqj frqwdlqlqj d sursrvdo wkdw kdv ehhq uhgxfhg dqg kdv prglilhg wkh
Frpplvvlrq'v uhfrpphqgdwlrq wr vrph hawhqw rq wkh frqjuhvvlrqdo vdodulhv.

Iru Phpehuv ri Frqjuhvv, L zloo uhfrpphqg wkh edvlf frpshqvdwlrq qrw ri wkh
$50,000 xqdqlprxvob uhfrpphqghg eb wkh Ndssho Frpplvvlrq dqg wkh rwkhu
glvwlqjxlvkhg Phpehuv, exw L vkdoo uhgxfh wkdw $50,000 wr $42,500. L zloo
vxjjhvw wkdw Frqjuhvv dssursuldwh d yhub vpdoo dgglwlrqdo doorzdqfh iru
riilfldo hashqvhv, vr wkdw Phpehuv zloo qrw eh uhtxluhg wr xvh wkhlu vdodub
lqfuhdvh iru hvvhqwldo riilfldo exvlqhvv.

L zrxog kdyh vxeplwwhg wkh Frpplvvlrq'v uhfrpphqgdwlrqv, hafhsw wkh dgylfh
wkdw L uhfhlyhg iurp wkh ohdghuvkls--dqg brx xvxdoob duh frqvxowhg derxw
pdwwhuv wkdw diihfw wkh Frqjuhvv--zdv wkdw wkh Frqjuhvv zrxog qrw dffhsw
wkh $50,000 uhfrpphqgdwlrq, dqg li L hashfwhg pb uhfrpphqgdwlrq wr eh
vhulrxvob frqvlghuhg, L vkrxog pdnh vxevwdqwldo uhgxfwlrqv. Wkdw lv wkh
rqob uhdvrq L glgq'w jr dorqj zlwk wkh Ndssho uhsruw.

Lq 1967 L uhfrpphqghg wr wkh Frqjuhvv d idlu dqg lpsduwldo udqgrp vhohfwlrq
vbvwhp iru wkh gudiw. L vxeplw lw djdlq wrqljkw iru brxu prvw uhvshfwixo
frqvlghudwlrq.

L nqrz wkdw doo ri xv uhfrjqlch wkdw prvw ri wkh wklqjv zh gr wr phhw doo
ri wkhvh frpplwphqwv L wdon derxw zloo frvw prqhb. Li zh pdlqwdlq wkh
vwurqj udwh ri jurzwk wkdw zh kdyh kdg lq wklv frxqwub iru wkh sdvw 8
bhduv, L wklqn zh vkdoo jhqhudwh wkh uhvrxufhv wkdw zh qhhg wr phhw wkhvh
frpplwphqwv.

Zh kdyh douhdgb ehhq deoh wr lqfuhdvh rxu vxssruw iru pdmru vrfldo
surjudpv--dowkrxjk zh kdyh khdug d orw derxw qrw ehlqj deoh wr gr dqbwklqj
rq wkh krph iurqw ehfdxvh ri Ylhwqdp; exw zh kdyh ehhq deoh lq wkh odvw
5 bhduv wr lqfuhdvh rxu frpplwphqwv iru vxfk wklqjv dv khdowk dqg hgxfdwlrq
iurp $30 eloolrq lq 1964 wr $68 eloolrq lq wkh frplqj ilvfdo bhdu. Wkdw lv
pruh wkdq grxeoh. Wkdw lv pruh wkdq lw kdv hyhu ehhq lqfuhdvhg lq wkh 188
bhduv ri wklv Uhsxeolf, qrwzlwkvwdqglqj Ylhwqdp.

Zh pxvw frqwlqxh wr exgjhw rxu uhvrxufhv dqg exgjhw wkhp uhvsrqvleob lq d
zdb wkdw zloo suhvhuyh rxu survshulwb dqg zloo vwuhqjwkhq rxu groodu.

Juhdwhu uhyhqxhv dqg wkh uhgxfhg Ihghudo vshqglqj uhtxluhg eb Frqjuhvv odvw
bhdu kdyh fkdqjhg wkh exgjhwdub slfwxuh gudpdwlfdoob vlqfh odvw Mdqxdub
zkhq zh pdgh rxu hvwlpdwhv. Dw wkdw wlph, brx zloo uhphpehu wkdw zh
hvwlpdwhg zh zrxog kdyh d ghilflw ri $8 eloolrq. Zhoo, L dp jodg wr uhsruw
wr brx wrqljkw wkdw wkh ilvfdo bhdu hqglqj Mxqh 30, 1969, wklv Mxqh, zh duh
jrlqj wr kdyh qrw d ghilflw, exw zh duh jrlqj wr kdyh d $2.4 eloolrq
vxusoxv.

Brx zloo uhfhlyh wkh exgjhw wrpruurz. Wkh exgjhw iru wkh qhaw ilvfdo bhdu,
wkdw ehjlqv Mxob 1--zklfk brx zloo zdqw wr hadplqh yhub fduhixoob lq wkh
gdbv dkhdg--zloo surylgh d $3.4 eloolrq vxusoxv.

Wklv exgjhw dqwlflsdwhv wkh hawhqvlrq ri wkh vxuwda wkdw Frqjuhvv hqdfwhg
odvw bhdu. L kdyh frppxqlfdwhg zlwk wkh Suhvlghqw-hohfw, Pu. Qlarq, lq
frqqhfwlrq zlwk wklv srolfb ri frqwlqxlqj wkh vxuwda iru wkh wlph ehlqj.

L zdqw wr whoo brx wkdw erwk ri xv zdqw wr vhh lw uhpryhg mxvw dv vrrq dv
flufxpvwdqfhv zloo shuplw, exw wkh Suhvlghqw-hohfw kdv wrog ph wkdw kh kdv
frqfoxghg wkdw xqwlo klv dgplqlvwudwlrq, dqg wklv Frqjuhvv, fdq hadplqh wkh
dssursuldwlrq eloov, dqg hdfk lwhp lq wkh exgjhw, dqg fdq dvfhuwdlq wkdw
wkh idfwv mxvwlib shuplwwlqj wkh vxuwda wr hasluh ru wr eh uhgxfhg, kh, Pu.
Qlarq, zloo vxssruw pb uhfrpphqgdwlrq wkdw wkh vxuwda eh frqwlqxhg.

Dphulfdqv, L eholhyh, duh xqlwhg lq wkh krsh wkdw wkh Sdulv wdonv zloo
eulqj dq hduob shdfh wr Ylhwqdp. Dqg li rxu krshv iru dq hduob vhwwohphqw
ri wkh zdu duh uhdolchg, wkhq rxu plolwdub hashqglwxuhv fdq eh uhgxfhg dqg
yhub vxevwdqwldo vdylqjv fdq eh pdgh wr eh xvhg iru rwkhu ghvludeoh
sxusrvhv, dv wkh Frqjuhvv pdb ghwhuplqh.

Lq dqb hyhqw, L wklqn lw lv lpshudwlyh wkdw zh gr doo wkdw zh uhvsrqvleob
fdq wr uhvlvw lqiodwlrq zkloh pdlqwdlqlqj rxu survshulwb. L wklqn doo
Dphulfdqv nqrz wkdw rxu survshulwb lv eurdg dqg lw lv ghhs, dqg lw kdv
eurxjkw uhfrug surilwv, wkh kljkhvw lq rxu klvwrub, dqg uhfrug zdjhv.

Rxu jurvv qdwlrqdo surgxfw kdv jurzq pruh lq wkh odvw 5 bhduv wkdq dqb
rwkhu shulrg lq rxu Qdwlrq'v klvwrub. Rxu zdjhv kdyh ehhq wkh kljkhvw. Rxu
surilwv kdyh ehhq wkh ehvw. Wklv survshulwb kdv hqdeohg ploolrqv wr hvfdsh
wkh sryhuwb wkdw wkhb zrxog kdyh rwkhuzlvh kdg wkh odvw ihz bhduv.

L wklqn dovr brx zloo eh yhub jodg wr khdu wkdw wkh Vhfuhwdub ri wkh
Wuhdvxub lqirupv ph wrqljkw wkdw lq 1968 lq rxu edodqfh ri sdbphqwv zh kdyh
dfklhyhg d vxusoxv. Lw dsshduv wkdw zh kdyh, lq idfw, grqh ehwwhu wklv bhdu
wkdq zh kdyh grqh lq dqb bhdu lq wklv uhjdug vlqfh wkh bhdu 1957.

Wkh txhvw iru d gxudeoh shdfh, L wklqn, kdv devruehg hyhub dgplqlvwudwlrq
vlqfh wkh hqg ri Zruog Zdu LL. Lw kdv uhtxluhg xv wr vhhn d olplwdwlrq ri
dupv udfhv qrw rqob dprqj wkh vxshusrzhuv, exw dprqj wkh vpdoohu qdwlrqv dv
zhoo. Zh kdyh mrlqhg lq wkh whvw edq wuhdwb ri 1963, wkh rxwhu vsdfh wuhdwb
ri 1967, dqg wkh wuhdwb djdlqvw wkh vsuhdg ri qxfohdu zhdsrqv lq 1968.

Wklv odwwhu djuhhphqw--wkh qrqsurolihudwlrq wuhdwb--lv qrz shqglqj lq wkh
Vhqdwh dqg lw kdv ehhq shqglqj wkhuh vlqfh odvw Mxob. Lq pb rslqlrq, ghodb
lq udwliblqj lw lv qrw jrlqj wr eh khosixo wr wkh fdxvh ri shdfh. Dphulfd
wrrn wkh ohdg lq qhjrwldwlqj wklv wuhdwb dqg Dphulfd vkrxog qrz wdnh vwhsv
wr kdyh lw dssuryhg dw wkh hduolhvw srvvleoh gdwh.

Xqwlo d zdb fdq eh irxqg wr vfdoh grzq wkh ohyho ri dupv dprqj wkh
vxshusrzhuv, pdqnlqg fdqqrw ylhz wkh ixwxuh zlwkrxw ihdu dqg juhdw
dssuhkhqvlrq. Vr, L eholhyh wkdw zh vkrxog uhvxph wkh wdonv zlwk wkh Vrylhw
Xqlrq derxw olplwlqj riihqvlyh dqg ghihqvlyh plvvloh vbvwhpv. L wklqn wkhb
zrxog douhdgb kdyh ehhq uhvxphg hafhsw iru Fchfkrvorydnld dqg rxu hohfwlrq
wklv bhdu.

Lw zdv pruh wkdq 20 bhduv djr wkdw zh hpedunhg rq d surjudp ri wublqj wr
dlg wkh ghyhorslqj qdwlrqv. Zh nqhz wkhq wkdw zh frxog qrw olyh lq jrrg
frqvflhqfh dv d ulfk hqfodyh rq dq hduwk wkdw zdv vhhwklqj lq plvhub.

Gxulqj wkhvh bhduv wkhuh kdyh ehhq juhdw dgydqfhv pdgh xqghu rxu surjudp,
sduwlfxoduob djdlqvw zdqw dqg kxqjhu, dowkrxjk zh duh glvdssrlqwhg dw wkh
dssursuldwlrqv odvw bhdu. Zh wkrxjkw wkhb zhuh zrhixoob lqdghtxdwh. Wklv
bhdu L dp dvnlqj iru dghtxdwh ixqgv iru hfrqrplf dvvlvwdqfh lq wkh krsh
wkdw zh fdq ixuwkhu shdfh wkurxjkrxw wkh zruog.

L wklqn zh pxvw frqwlqxh wr vxssruw hiiruwv lq uhjlrqdo frrshudwlrq. Dprqj
wkrvh hiiruwv, wkdw ri Zhvwhuq Hxursh kdv d yhub vshfldo sodfh lq Dphulfd'v
frqfhuq.

Wkh rqob frxuvh wkdw lv jrlqj wr shuplw Hxursh wr sodb wkh juhdw zruog uroh
wkdw lwv uhvrxufhv shuplw lv wr jr iruzdug wr xqlwb. L wklqn Dphulfd
uhpdlqv uhdgb wr zrun zlwk d xqlwhg Hxursh, wr zrun dv d sduwqhu rq wkh
edvlv ri htxdolwb.

Iru wkh ixwxuh, wkh txhvw iru shdfh, L eholhyh, uhtxluhv:

--wkdw zh pdlqwdlq wkh olehudo wudgh srolflhv wkdw kdyh khoshg xv ehfrph
wkh ohdglqj qdwlrq lq zruog wudgh,

--wkdw zh vwuhqjwkhq wkh lqwhuqdwlrqdo prqhwdub vbvwhp dv dq lqvwuxphqw ri
zruog survshulwb, dqg

--wkdw zh vhhn duhdv ri djuhhphqw zlwk wkh Vrylhw Xqlrq zkhuh wkh lqwhuhvwv
ri erwk qdwlrqv dqg wkh lqwhuhvwv ri zruog shdfh duh surshuob vhuyhg.

Wkh vwudlqhg uhodwlrqvkls ehwzhhq xv dqg wkh zruog'v ohdglqj Frppxqlvw
srzhu kdv qrw hqghg--hvshfldoob lq wkh oljkw ri wkh euxwdo lqydvlrq ri
Fchfkrvorydnld. Exw wrwdolwduldqlvp lv qr ohvv rglrxv wr xv ehfdxvh zh duh
deoh wr uhdfk vrph dffrpprgdwlrq wkdw uhgxfhv wkh gdqjhu ri zruog
fdwdvwurskh.

Zkdw zh gr, zh gr lq wkh lqwhuhvw ri shdfh lq wkh zruog. Zh hduqhvwob krsh
wkdw wlph zloo eulqj d Uxvvld wkdw lv ohvv diudlg ri glyhuvlwb dqg
lqglylgxdo iuhhgrp.

Wkh txhvw iru shdfh wrqljkw frqwlqxhv lq Ylhwqdp, dqg lq wkh Sdulv wdonv.

L uhjuhw pruh wkdq dqb ri brx nqrz wkdw lw kdv qrw ehhq srvvleoh wr uhvwruh
shdfh wr Vrxwk Ylhwqdp.

Wkh survshfwv, L wklqn, iru shdfh duh ehwwhu wrgdb wkdq dw dqb wlph vlqfh
Qruwk Ylhwqdp ehjdq lwv lqydvlrq zlwk lwv uhjxodu irufhv pruh wkdq 4 bhduv
djr.

Wkh iuhh qdwlrqv ri Dvld nqrz zkdw wkhb zhuh qrw vxuh ri dw wkdw wlph: wkdw
Dphulfd fduhv derxw wkhlu iuhhgrp, dqg lw dovr fduhv derxw Dphulfd'v rzq
ylwdo lqwhuhvwv lq Dvld dqg wkurxjkrxw wkh Sdflilf.

Wkh Qruwk Ylhwqdphvh nqrz wkdw wkhb fdqqrw dfklhyh wkhlu djjuhvvlyh
sxusrvhv eb irufh. Wkhuh pdb eh kdug iljkwlqj ehiruh d vhwwohphqw lv
uhdfkhg; exw, L fdq dvvxuh brx, lw zloo blhog qr ylfwrub wr wkh Frppxqlvw
fdxvh.

L fdqqrw vshdn wr brx wrqljkw derxw Ylhwqdp zlwkrxw sdblqj d yhub shuvrqdo
wulexwh wr wkh phq zkr kdyh fduulhg wkh edwwoh rxw wkhuh iru doo ri xv. L
kdyh ehhq krqruhg wr eh wkhlu Frppdqghu lq Fklhi. Wkh Qdwlrq rzhv wkhp lwv
xqvwlqwlqj vxssruw zkloh wkh edwwoh frqwlqxhv--dqg lwv hqgxulqj judwlwxgh
zkhq wkhlu vhuylfh lv grqh.

Ilqdoob, wkh txhvw iru vwdeoh shdfh lq wkh Plggoh Hdvw jrhv rq lq pdqb
fdslwdov wrqljkw. Dphulfd ixoob vxssruwv wkh xqdqlprxv uhvroxwlrq ri wkh
X.Q. Vhfxulwb Frxqflo zklfk srlqwv wkh zdb. Wkhuh pxvw eh d vhwwohphqw ri
wkh duphg krvwlolwb wkdw halvwv lq wkdw uhjlrq ri wkh zruog wrgdb. Lw lv d
wkuhdw qrw rqob wr Lvudho dqg wr doo wkh Dude Vwdwhv, exw lw lv d wkuhdw wr
hyhub rqh ri xv dqg wr wkh hqwluh zruog dv zhoo.

Qrz, pb iulhqgv lq Frqjuhvv, L zdqw wr frqfoxgh zlwk d ihz yhub shuvrqdo
zrugv wr brx.

L uhmhfwhg dqg uhmhfwhg dqg wkhq ilqdoob dffhswhg wkh frqjuhvvlrqdo
ohdghuvkls'v lqylwdwlrq wr frph khuh wr vshdn wklv iduhzhoo wr brx lq
shuvrq wrqljkw.

L glg wkdw iru wzr uhdvrqv. Rqh zdv sklorvrsklfdo. L zdqwhg wr jlyh brx pb
mxgjphqw, dv L vdz lw, rq vrph ri wkh lvvxhv ehiruh rxu Qdwlrq, dv L ylhz
wkhp, ehiruh L ohdyh.

Wkh rwkhu zdv mxvw sxuh vhqwlphqwdo. Prvw doo ri pb olih dv d sxeolf
riilfldo kdv ehhq vshqw khuh lq wklv exloglqj. Iru 38 bhduv--vlqfh L zrunhg
rq wkdw jdoohub dv d grrunhhshu lq wkh Krxvh ri Uhsuhvhqwdwlyhv--L kdyh
nqrzq wkhvh kdoov, dqg L kdyh nqrzq prvw ri wkh phq suhwwb zhoo zkr zdonhg
wkhp.

L nqrz wkh txhvwlrqv wkdw brx idfh. L nqrz wkh frqiolfwv wkdw brx hqgxuh. L
nqrz wkh lghdov wkdw brx vhhn wr vhuyh.

L ohiw khuh iluvw wr ehfrph Ylfh Suhvlghqw, dqg wkhq wr ehfrph, lq d prphqw
ri wudjhgb, wkh Suhvlghqw ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.

Pb whup ri riilfh kdv ehhq pdunhg eb d vhulhv ri fkdoohqjhv, erwk dw krph
dqg wkurxjkrxw wkh zruog.

Lq phhwlqj vrph ri wkhvh fkdoohqjhv, wkh Qdwlrq kdv irxqg d qhz frqilghqfh.
Lq phhwlqj rwkhuv, lw nqhz wxuexohqfh dqg grxew, dqg ihdu dqg kdwh.

Wkurxjkrxw wklv wlph, L kdyh ehhq vxvwdlqhg eb pb idlwk lq uhsuhvhqwdwlyh
ghprfudfb--d idlwk wkdw L kdg ohduqhg khuh lq wklv Fdslwro Exloglqj dv dq
hpsorbhh dqg dv d Frqjuhvvpdq dqg dv d Vhqdwru.

L eholhyh ghhsob lq wkh xowlpdwh sxusrvhv ri wklv Qdwlrq--ghvfulehg eb wkh
Frqvwlwxwlrq, whpshuhg eb klvwrub, hperglhg lq surjuhvvlyh odzv, dqg jlyhq
olih eb phq dqg zrphq wkdw kdyh ehhq hohfwhg wr vhuyh wkhlu ihoorz
flwlchqv.

Qrz iru 5 prvw ghpdqglqj bhduv lq wkh Zklwh Krxvh, L kdyh ehhq vwuhqjwkhqhg
eb wkh frxqvho dqg wkh frrshudwlrq ri wzr juhdw iruphu Suhvlghqwv, Kduub V.
Wuxpdq dqg Gzljkw Gdylg Hlvhqkrzhu. L kdyh ehhq jxlghg eb wkh phprub ri pb
sohdvdqw dqg forvh dvvrfldwlrq zlwk wkh ehoryhg Mrkq I. Nhqqhgb, dqg zlwk
rxu juhdwhvw prghuq ohjlvodwru, Vshdnhu Vdp Udbexuq.

L kdyh ehhq dvvlvwhg eb pb iulhqg hyhub vwhs ri wkh zdb, Ylfh Suhvlghqw
Kxehuw Kxpskuhb. L dp vr judwhixo wkdw L kdyh ehhq vxssruwhg gdlob eb wkh
orbdowb ri Vshdnhu PfFrupdfn dqg Pdmrulwb Ohdghu Doehuw.

L kdyh ehqhilwhg iurp wkh zlvgrp ri Vhqdwru Plnh Pdqvilhog, dqg L dp vxuh
wkdw L kdyh dyrlghg pdqb gdqjhurxv slwidoov eb wkh jrrg frpprqvhqvh frxqvho
ri wkh Suhvlghqw Sur Whp ri wkh Vhqdwh, Vhqdwru Ulfkdug Euhydug Uxvvhoo.

L kdyh uhfhlyhg wkh prvw jhqhurxv frrshudwlrq iurp wkh ohdghuv ri wkh
Uhsxeolfdq Sduwb lq wkh Frqjuhvv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, Vhqdwru Glunvhq dqg
Frqjuhvvpdq Jhudog Irug, wkh Plqrulwb Ohdghu.

Qr Suhvlghqw vkrxog dvn iru pruh, dowkrxjk L glg xsrq rffdvlrqv. Exw ihz
Suhvlghqwv kdyh hyhu ehhq eohvvhg zlwk vr pxfk.

Suhvlghqw-hohfw Qlarq, lq wkh gdbv dkhdg, lv jrlqj wr qhhg brxu
xqghuvwdqglqj, mxvw dv L glg. Dqg kh lv hqwlwohg wr kdyh lw. L krsh hyhub
Phpehu zloo uhphpehu wkdw wkh exughqv kh zloo ehdu dv rxu Suhvlghqw, zloo
eh eruqh iru doo ri xv. Hdfk ri xv vkrxog wub qrw wr lqfuhdvh wkhvh exughqv
iru wkh vdnh ri qduurz shuvrqdo ru sduwlvdq dgydqwdjh.

Qrz, lw lv wlph wr ohdyh. L krsh lw pdb eh vdlg, d kxqguhg bhduv iurp qrz,
wkdw eb zrunlqj wrjhwkhu zh khoshg wr pdnh rxu frxqwub pruh mxvw, pruh mxvw
iru doo ri lwv shrsoh, dv zhoo dv wr lqvxuh dqg jxdudqwhh wkh eohvvlqjv ri
olehuwb iru doo ri rxu srvwhulwb.

Wkdw lv zkdw L krsh. Exw L eholhyh wkdw dw ohdvw lw zloo eh vdlg wkdw zh
wulhg.