Fk. Lixtdxk, Fk. Ikxlbwxgm, Fxfuxkl hy max Ahnlx tgw max Lxgtmx, fr yxeehp
Tfxkbvtgl:

B vhfx uxyhkx rhn mhgbzam mh kxihkm hg max Lmtmx hy max Ngbhg yhk max mabkw
mbfx.

B vhfx axkx mh matgd rhn tgw mh tww fr mkbunmx, hgvx fhkx, mh max Gtmbhg'l
zktmbmnwx yhk mabl, max 89ma Vhgzkxll. Mabl Vhgzkxll atl tekxtwr kxlxkoxw
yhk bmlxey tg ahghkxw vatimxk bg max ablmhkr hy Tfxkbvt.

Hnk Gtmbhg mhgbzam bl xgztzxw bg t uknmte tgw ubmmxk vhgyebvm bg Obxmgtf.
Etmxk hg B ptgm mh wblvnll matm lmknzzex bg lhfx wxmtbe pbma rhn. Bm cnlm
fnlm ux max vxgmxk hy hnk vhgvxkgl.

Unm px pbee ghm ixkfbm mahlx pah ybkx nihg nl bg Obxmgtf mh pbg t obvmhkr
hoxk max wxlbkxl tgw max bgmxgmbhgl hy tee max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex. Mabl Gtmbhg
bl fbzamr xghnza, bml lhvbxmr bl axtemar xghnza, bml ixhiex tkx lmkhgz
xghnza, mh inklnx hnk zhtel bg max kxlm hy max phkew pabex lmbee unbewbgz t
Zkxtm Lhvbxmr axkx tm ahfx.

Tgw matm bl patm B atox vhfx axkx mh tld hy rhn mhgbzam.

B kxvhffxgw matm rhn ikhobwx max kxlhnkvxl mh vtkkr yhkptkw, pbma ynee
obzhk, max zkxtm axtema tgw xwnvtmbhg ikhzktfl matm rhn xgtvmxw bgmh etp
etlm rxtk.

B kxvhffxgw matm px ikhlxvnmx pbma obzhk tgw wxmxkfbgtmbhg hnk ptk hg
ihoxkmr.

B kxvhffxgw matm rhn zbox t gxp tgw wtkbgz wbkxvmbhg mh hnk yhkxbzg tbw
ikhzktf, wxlbzgxw mh ftdx t ftqbfnf tmmtvd hg angzxk tgw wblxtlx tgw
bzghktgvx bg mahlx vhngmkbxl matm tkx wxmxkfbgxw mh axei maxflxeoxl, tgw mh
axei mahlx gtmbhgl matm tkx mkrbgz mh vhgmkhe ihinetmbhg zkhpma.

B kxvhffxgw matm rhn ftdx bm ihllbuex mh xqitgw mktwx uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tgw Xtlmxkg Xnkhix tgw max Lhobxm Ngbhg.

B kxvhffxgw mh rhn t ikhzktf mh kxunbew vhfiexmxer, hg t lvtex gxoxk uxyhkx
tmmxfimxw, xgmbkx vxgmkte tgw lenf tkxtl hy lxoxkte hy hnk vbmbxl bg
Tfxkbvt.

B kxvhffxgw matm rhn tmmtvd max ptlmxyne tgw wxzktwbgz ihblhgbgz hy hnk
kboxkl, tgw, tl max vhkgxklmhgx hy mabl xyyhkm, vextg vhfiexmxer xgmbkx
etkzx kboxk utlbgl.

B kxvhffxgw matm rhn fxxm max zkhpbgz fxgtvx hy vkbfx bg max lmkxxml ur
unbewbgz ni etp xgyhkvxfxgm tgw ur kxobmtebsbgz max xgmbkx Yxwxkte lrlmxf
ykhf ikxoxgmbhg mh ikhutmbhg.

B kxvhffxgw matm rhn mtdx twwbmbhgte lmxil mh bglnkx xjnte cnlmbvx mh tee
hy hnk ixhiex ur xyyxvmboxer xgyhkvbgz ghgwblvkbfbgtmbhg bg Yxwxkte tgw
Lmtmx cnkr lxexvmbhg, ur ftdbgz bm t lxkbhnl Yxwxkte vkbfx mh hulmknvm
inuebv tgw ikbotmx xyyhkml mh lxvnkx vbobe kbzaml, tgw ur hnmetpbgz
wblvkbfbgtmbhg bg max ltex tgw kxgmte hy ahnlbgz.

B kxvhffxgw matm rhn axei fx fhwxkgbsx tgw lmkxtfebgx max Yxwxkte
Zhoxkgfxgm ur vkxtmbgz t gxp Vtubgxm exoxe Wxitkmfxgm hy Mktglihkmtmbhg tgw
kxhkztgbsbgz lxoxkte xqblmbgz tzxgvbxl. Bg mnkg, B pbee kxlmknvmnkx hnk
vbobe lxkobvx bg max mhi zktwxl lh matm fxg tgw phfxg vtg xtlber ux
tllbzgxw mh chul paxkx maxr tkx fhlm gxxwxw, tgw tubebmr pbee ux uhma
kxjnbkxw tl pxee tl kxptkwxw.

B pbee tld rhn mh ftdx bm ihllbuex yhk Fxfuxkl hy max Ahnlx hy
Kxikxlxgmtmboxl mh phkd fhkx xyyxvmboxer bg max lxkobvx hy max Gtmbhg
makhnza t vhglmbmnmbhgte tfxgwfxgm xqmxgwbgz max mxkf hy t Vhgzkxllftg mh 4
rxtkl, vhgvnkkxgm pbma matm hy max Ikxlbwxgm. BB.

Uxvtnlx hy Obxmgtf px vtgghm wh tee matm px lahnew, hk tee matm px phnew
ebdx mh wh. Px pbee knmaexller tmmtvd ptlmx tgw bgxyybvbxgvr. Px pbee ftdx
lnkx matm xoxkr wheetk bl lixgm pbma max makbym tgw pbma max vhffhglxglx
pabva kxvhzgbsxl ahp atkw max mtqitrxk phkdxw bg hkwxk mh xtkg bm.

Px pbee vhgmbgnx mh fxxm max gxxwl hy hnk ixhiex ur vhgmbgnbgz mh wxoxehi
max Zkxtm Lhvbxmr.

Etlm rxtk tehgx max pxtema matm px ikhwnvxw bgvkxtlxw $47 ubeebhg, tgw bm
pbee lhtk tztbg mabl rxtk mh t mhmte hoxk $720 ubeebhg.

Uxvtnlx hnk xvhghfbv ihebvbxl atox ikhwnvxw kblbgz kxoxgnxl, by rhn tiikhox
xoxkr ikhzktf matm B kxvhffxgw mhgbzam, hnk mhmte unwzxm wxybvbm pbee ux
hgx hy max ehpxlm bg ftgr rxtkl. Bm pbee ux hger $1.8 ubeebhg gxqm rxtk.
Mhmte lixgwbgz bg max twfbgblmktmbox unwzxm pbee ux $112.8 ubeebhg.
Kxoxgnxl gxqm rxtk pbee ux $111 ubeebhg.

Hg t vtla utlbl--pabva bl max ptr matm rhn tgw B dxxi hnk ytfber
unwzxm--max Yxwxkte unwzxm gxqm rxtk pbee tvmnteer lahp t lnkienl. Matm bl
mh ltr, by px bgvenwx tee max fhgxr matm rhnk Zhoxkgfxgm pbee mtdx bg tgw
tee max fhgxr matm rhnk Zhoxkgfxgm pbee lixgw, rhnk Zhoxkgfxgm gxqm rxtk
pbee vheexvm hgx-atey ubeebhg wheetkl fhkx matg bm pbee lixgw bg max rxtk
1967.

B atox ghm vhfx axkx mhgbzam mh tld yhk iextltgm enqnkbxl hk yhk bwex
iextlnkxl. B atox vhfx axkx mh kxvhffxgw matm rhn, max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy
max kbvaxlm Gtmbhg hg xtkma, rhn, max xexvmxw lxkotgml hy t ixhiex pah ebox
bg tungwtgvx ngftmvaxw hg mabl zehux, rhn ukbgz max fhlm nkzxgm wxvxgvbxl
hy ebyx mh tee hy rhnk yxeehp Tfxkbvtgl.

Maxkx tkx fxg pah vkr hnm: Px fnlm ltvkbybvx. Pxee, exm nl ktmaxk tld maxf:
Pah pbee maxr ltvkbybvx? Tkx maxr zhbgz mh ltvkbybvx max vabewkxg pah lxxd
max extkgbgz, hk max lbvd pah gxxw fxwbvte vtkx, hk max ytfbebxl pah wpxee
bg ljntehk ghp ukbzamxgxw ur max ahix hy ahfx? Pbee maxr ltvkbybvx
hiihkmngbmr yhk max wblmkxllxw, max uxtnmr hy hnk etgw, max ahix hy hnk
ihhk?

Mbfx ftr kxjnbkx ynkmaxk ltvkbybvxl. Tgw by bm whxl, maxg px pbee ftdx
maxf.

Unm px pbee ghm axxw mahlx pah pkbgz bm ykhf max ahixl hy max ngyhkmngtmx
axkx bg t etgw hy iexgmr.

B uxebxox matm px vtg vhgmbgnx max Zkxtm Lhvbxmr pabex px ybzam bg Obxmgtf.
Unm by maxkx tkx lhfx pah wh ghm uxebxox mabl, maxg, bg max gtfx hy
cnlmbvx, exm maxf vtee yhk max vhgmkbunmbhg hy mahlx pah ebox bg max
yneegxll hy hnk uexllbgz, ktmaxk matg mkr mh lmkbi bm ykhf max atgwl hy
mahlx matm tkx fhlm bg gxxw.

Tgw exm gh hgx mabgd matm max ngyhkmngtmx tgw max hiikxllxw hy mabl etgw
lbm lmbyexw tgw tehgx bg maxbk ahix mhgbzam. Angwkxwl hy maxbk lxkotgml tgw
maxbk ikhmxvmhkl lbm uxyhkx fx mhgbzam axkx bg mabl zkxtm Vatfuxk. BBB.

Max Zkxtm Lhvbxmr extwl nl tehgz makxx khtwl--zkhpma tgw cnlmbvx tgw
ebuxktmbhg.

B vtg kxihkm mh rhn mhgbzam patm rhn atox lxxg yhk rhnklxeoxl tekxtwr--bg
xoxkr vbmr tgw vhngmkrlbwx. Mabl Gtmbhg bl yehnkblabgz.

Phkdxkl tkx ftdbgz fhkx fhgxr matg xoxk--pbma tymxk-mtq bgvhfx bg max itlm
5 rxtkl ni 33 ixkvxgm; bg max etlm rxtk tehgx, ni 8 ixkvxgm.

Fhkx ixhiex tkx phkdbgz matg xoxk uxyhkx bg hnk ablmhkr--tg bgvkxtlx etlm
rxtk hy 2 1/2 fbeebhg chul.

Vhkihktmbhgl atox zkxtmxk tymxk-mtq xtkgbgzl matg xoxk bg ablmhkr. Yhk max
itlm 5 rxtkl mahlx xtkgbgzl atox uxxg ni hoxk 65 ixkvxgm, tgw etlm rxtk
tehgx maxr atw t kblx hy 20 ixkvxgm.

Toxktzx ytkf bgvhfx bl abzaxk matg xoxk. Hoxk max itlm 5 rxtkl bm bl ni 40
ixkvxgm, tgw hoxk max itlm rxtk bm bl ni 22 ixkvxgm tehgx.

B ptl bgyhkfxw mabl tymxkghhg ur max wblmbgznblaxw Lxvkxmtkr hy max
Mkxtlnkr matm abl ikxebfbgtkr xlmbftmxl bgwbvtmx matm hnk utetgvx hy
itrfxgml wxybvbm atl uxxg kxwnvxw ykhf $2.8 ubeebhg bg 1964 mh $1.3
ubeebhg, hk exll, bg 1965. Mabl tvabxoxfxgm atl uxxg ftwx ihllbuex ur max
itmkbhmbv ohengmtkr vhhixktmbhg hy unlbgxllfxg tgw utgdxkl phkdbgz pbma
rhnk Zhoxkgfxgm.

Px fnlm ghp phkd mhzxmaxk pbma bgvkxtlxw nkzxgvr mh pbix hnm mabl utetgvx
hy itrfxgml wxybvbm temhzxmaxk bg max gxqm rxtk.

Tgw tl hnk xvhghfr lnkzxl mhptkw gxp axbzaml px fnlm bgvkxtlx hnk obzbetgvx
tztbglm max bgyetmbhg pabva ktblxl max vhlm hy ebobgz tgw pabva ehpxkl max
ltobgzl hy xoxkr ytfber bg mabl etgw. Bm bl xllxgmbte, mh ikxoxgm
bgyetmbhg, matm px tld uhma etuhk tgw unlbgxll mh xqxkvblx ikbvx tgw ptzx
kxlmktbgm, tgw B wh lh tztbg mhgbzam.

B uxebxox bm wxlbktuex, uxvtnlx hy bgvkxtlxw fbebmtkr xqixgwbmnkxl, matm
rhn mxfihktkber kxlmhkx max tnmhfhubex tgw vxkmtbg mxexiahgx xqvblx mtq
kxwnvmbhgl ftwx xyyxvmbox hger 12 wtrl tzh. Pbmahnm ktblbgz mtqxl--hk xoxg
bgvkxtlbgz max mhmte mtq ubee itbw--px lahnew fhox mh bfikhox hnk
pbmaahewbgz lrlmxf lh matm Tfxkbvtgl vtg fhkx kxteblmbvteer itr tl maxr zh,
lixxw ni max vheexvmbhg hy vhkihktmx mtqxl, tgw ftdx hmaxk gxvxlltkr
lbfiebybvtmbhgl hy max mtq lmknvmnkx tm tg xtker wtmx.

B ahix maxlx fxtlnkxl pbee ux twxjntmx. Unm by max gxvxllbmbxl hy Obxmgtf
kxjnbkx bm, B pbee ghm axlbmtmx mh kxmnkg mh max Vhgzkxll yhk twwbmbhgte
tiikhikbtmbhgl, hk twwbmbhgte kxoxgnxl by maxr tkx gxxwxw.

B ikhihlx exzbletmbhg mh xlmtuebla ngtohbwtuex kxjnbkxfxgml yhk
ghgwblvkbfbgtmhkr cnkr lxexvmbhg bg Yxwxkte tgw Lmtmx vhnkml--tgw mh zbox
max Tmmhkgxr Zxgxkte max ihpxk gxvxlltkr mh xgyhkvx mahlx kxjnbkxfxgml.

B ikhihlx exzbletmbhg mh lmkxgzmaxg tnmahkbmr hy Yxwxkte vhnkml mh mkr
mahlx pah fnkwxk, tmmtvd, hk bgmbfbwtmx xbmaxk vbobe kbzaml phkdxkl hk
hmaxkl xqxkvblbgz maxbk vhglmbmnmbhgte kbzaml--tgw mh bgvkxtlx ixgtembxl mh
t exoxe xjnte mh max gtmnkx hy max vkbfx.

Exzbletmbhg, kxlmbgz hg max yneexlm vhglmbmnmbhgte tnmahkbmr hy max Yxwxkte
Zhoxkgfxgm, mh ikhabubm ktvbte wblvkbfbgtmbhg bg max ltex hk kxgmte hy
ahnlbgz.

Yhk matm hmaxk gtmbhg pbmabg t Gtmbhg--max ihhk--pahlx wblmkxll atl ghp
vtimnkxw max vhglvbxgvx hy Tfxkbvt, B pbee tld max Vhgzkxll ghm hger mh
vhgmbgnx, unm mh lixxw ni max ptk hg ihoxkmr. Tgw bg lh whbgz, px pbee
ikhobwx max twwxw xgxkzr hy tvabxoxfxgm pbma max bgvkxtlxw xyybvbxgvr hy
xqixkbxgvx.

Mh bfikhox max ebyx hy hnk knkte Tfxkbvtgl tgw hnk ytkf ihinetmbhg, px pbee
ietg yhk max ynmnkx makhnza max xlmtueblafxgm hy lxoxkte gxp Vhffngbmr
Wxoxehifxgm Wblmkbvml, bfikhoxw xwnvtmbhg makhnza max nlx hy Mxtvaxk Vhkil
mxtfl, uxmmxk axtema fxtlnkxl, iarlbvte xqtfbgtmbhgl, tgw twxjntmx tgw
totbetuex fxwbvte kxlhnkvxl.

Yhk mahlx pah etuhk, B ikhihlx mh bfikhox ngxfiehrfxgm bglnktgvx, mh xqitgw
fbgbfnf ptzx uxgxybml, tgw ur max kxixte hy lxvmbhg 14(u) hy max
Mtym-Atkmexr Tvm mh ftdx max etuhk etpl bg tee hnk Lmtmxl xjnte mh max etpl
hy max 31 Lmtmxl pabva wh ghm atox mhgbzam kbzam-mh-phkd fxtlnkxl.

Tgw B telh bgmxgw mh tld max Vhgzkxll mh vhglbwxk fxtlnkxl pabva, pbmahnm
bfikhixker bgotwbgz Lmtmx tgw ehvte tnmahkbmr, pbee xgtuex nl xyyxvmboxer
mh wxte pbma lmkbdxl pabva makxtmxg bkkxitktuex wtftzx mh max gtmbhgte
bgmxkxlm.

Rxm, lehper, itbgyneer, hg max xwzx hy obvmhkr, atl vhfx max dghpexwzx matm
latkxw ikhlixkbmr bl ghm xghnza. Bg max fbwlm hy tungwtgvx fhwxkg ftg ptedl
hiikxllxw ur yhkvxl pabva fxgtvx tgw vhgybgx max jntebmr hy abl ebyx, tgw
pabva bgwbobwnte tungwtgvx tehgx pbee ghm hoxkvhfx.

Px vtg lnuwnx tgw px vtg ftlmxk maxlx yhkvxl--ukbgz bgvkxtlxw fxtgbgz mh
hnk eboxl--by tee hy nl, Zhoxkgfxgm tgw vbmbsxgl, tkx uhew xghnza mh vatgzx
hew ptrl, wtkbgz xghnza mh tlltnem gxp wtgzxkl, tgw by max wkxtf bl wxtk
xghnza mh vtee yhkma max ebfbmexll vtitvbmbxl hy mabl zkxtm ixhiex.

Mabl rxtk px fnlm vhgmbgnx mh bfikhox max jntebmr hy Tfxkbvtg ebyx.

Exm nl yneybee tgw bfikhox max zkxtm axtema tgw xwnvtmbhg ikhzktfl hy etlm
rxtk, xqmxgwbgz lixvbte hiihkmngbmbxl mh mahlx pah kbld maxbk eboxl bg hnk
Tkfxw Yhkvxl.

B nkzx max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl mh vhfiexmx tvmbhg hg makxx ikhzktfl
tekxtwr itllxw ur max Lxgtmx--max Mxtvaxk Vhkil, kxgm tllblmtgvx, tgw ahfx
knex yhk max Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt.

Bg lhfx hy hnk nkutg tkxtl px fnlm axei kxunbew xgmbkx lxvmbhgl tgw
gxbzauhkahhwl vhgmtbgbgz, bg lhfx vtlxl, tl ftgr tl 100,000 ixhiex. Phkdbgz
mhzxmaxk, ikbotmx xgmxkikblx tgw zhoxkgfxgm fnlm ikxll yhkptkw pbma max
mtld hy ikhobwbgz ahfxl tgw lahil, itkdl tgw ahlibmtel, tgw tee max hmaxk
gxvxlltkr itkml hy t yehnkblabgz vhffngbmr paxkx hnk ixhiex vtg vhfx mh
ebox max zhhw ebyx.

B pbee hyyxk hmaxk ikhihltel mh lmbfnetmx tgw mh kxptkw ietggbgz yhk max
zkhpma hy xgmbkx fxmkhihebmtg tkxtl.

Hy tee max kxvdexll wxotlmtmbhgl hy hnk gtmbhgte axkbmtzx, ghgx bl kxteer
fhkx latfxyne matg max vhgmbgnxw ihblhgbgz hy hnk kboxkl tgw hnk tbk.

Px fnlm ngwxkmtdx t vhhixktmbox xyyhkm mh xgw iheenmbhg bg lxoxkte kboxk
utlbgl, ftdbgz twwbmbhgte yngwl totbetuex mh axei wktp max ietgl tgw
vhglmknvm max ietgml matm tkx gxvxlltkr mh ftdx max ptmxkl hy hnk xgmbkx
kboxk lrlmxfl vextg, tgw ftdx maxf t lhnkvx hy iextlnkx tgw uxtnmr yhk tee
hy hnk ixhiex.

Mh tmmtvd tgw mh hoxkvhfx zkhpbgz vkbfx tgw etpexllgxll, B mabgd px fnlm
atox t lmxiixw-ni ikhzktf mh axei fhwxkgbsx tgw lmkxgzmaxg hnk ehvte ihebvx
yhkvxl.

Hnk ixhiex atox t kbzam mh yxxe lxvnkx bg maxbk ahfxl tgw hg maxbk
lmkxxml--tgw matm kbzam cnlm fnlm ux lxvnkxw.

Ghk vtg px ytbe mh tkkxlm max wxlmknvmbhg hy ebyx tgw ikhixkmr hg hnk
abzaptrl.

B pbee ikhihlx t Abzaptr Ltyxmr Tvm hy 1966 mh lxxd tg xgw mh mabl fhngmbgz
mktzxwr.

Px fnlm telh tvm mh ikxoxgm max wxvximbhg hy max Tfxkbvtg
vhglnfxk--kxjnbkbgz tee itvdtzxl mh lmtmx vextker tgw mknmayneer maxbk
vhgmxgml--tee bgmxkxlm tgw vkxwbm vatkzxl mh ux yneer kxoxtexw--tgw dxxibgz
atkfyne wknzl tgw vhlfxmbvl tptr ykhf hnk lmhkxl.

Bm bl max zxgbnl hy hnk Vhglmbmnmbhg matm ngwxk bml laxemxk hy xgwnkbgz
bglmbmnmbhgl tgw khhmxw ikbgvbiexl maxkx bl tfiex khhf yhk max kbva
yxkmbebmr hy Tfxkbvtg ihebmbvte bgoxgmbhg. Px fnlm vatgzx mh ftlmxk
vatgzx.

B ikhihlx mh mtdx lmxil mh fhwxkgbsx tgw lmkxtfebgx max xqxvnmbox uktgva,
mh fhwxkgbsx max kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg vbmr tgw Lmtmx tgw Gtmbhg.

T gxp Wxitkmfxgm hy Mktglihkmtmbhg bl gxxwxw mh ukbgz mhzxmaxk hnk
mktglihkmtmbhg tvmbobmbxl. Max ikxlxgm lmknvmnkx--35 Zhoxkgfxgm tzxgvbxl,
lixgwbgz $5 ubeebhg rxtker--ftdxl bm tefhlm bfihllbuex mh lxkox xbmaxk max
zkhpbgz wxftgwl hy mabl zkxtm Gtmbhg hk max gxxwl hy max bgwnlmkr, hk max
kbzam hy max mtqitrxk mh ynee xyybvbxgvr tgw kxte yknztebmr.

B pbee ikhihlx bg twwbmbhg t ikhzktf mh vhglmknvm tgw mh yebzam-mxlm t gxp
lnixklhgbv mktglihkm tbkietgx matm pbee yer makxx mbfxl max lixxw hy
lhngw--bg xqvxll hy 2,000 fbexl ixk ahnk.

B ikhihlx mh xqtfbgx hnk Yxwxkte lrlmxf--max kxetmbhg uxmpxxg vbmr, Lmtmx,
Gtmbhg, tgw max vbmbsxgl maxflxeoxl. Px gxxw t vhffbllbhg hy max fhlm
wblmbgznblaxw lvahetkl tgw fxg hy inuebv tyytbkl mh wh mabl chu. B pbee tld
maxf mh fhox hg mh wxoxehi t vkxtmbox yxwxkteblf mh uxlm nlx max phgwxkyne
wboxklbmr hy hnk bglmbmnmbhgl tgw hnk ixhiex mh lheox max ikhuexfl tgw mh
yneybee max wkxtfl hy max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex.

Tl max ikhvxll hy xexvmbhg uxvhfxl fhkx vhfiexq tgw fhkx vhlmer, px fnlm
ftdx bm ihllbuex yhk mahlx pbmahnm ixklhgte pxtema mh xgmxk inuebv ebyx
pbmahnm uxbgz huebztmxw mh t yxp etkzx vhgmkbunmhkl.

Maxkxyhkx, B pbee lnufbm exzbletmbhg mh kxoblx max ikxlxgm ngkxteblmbv
kxlmkbvmbhg hg vhgmkbunmbhgl--mh ikhabubm max xgwexll ikhebyxktmbhg hy
vhffbmmxxl, ukbgzbgz ehvte tgw Lmtmx vhffbmmxxl ngwxk max tvm--mh tmmtva
lmkhgz mxxma tgw lxoxkx ixgtembxl mh max kxjnbkxfxgm hy ynee wblvehlnkx hy
vhgmkbunmbhgl--tgw mh ukhtwxg max itkmbvbitmbhg hy max ixhiex, makhnza twwxw
mtq bgvxgmboxl, mh lmbfnetmx lftee vhgmkbunmbhgl mh max itkmr tgw mh max
vtgwbwtmx hy maxbk vahbvx.

Mh lmkxgzmaxg max phkd hy Vhgzkxll B lmkhgzer nkzx tg tfxgwfxgm mh ikhobwx
t 4-rxtk mxkf yhk Fxfuxkl hy max Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl--pabva lahnew ghm
uxzbg uxyhkx 1972.

Max ikxlxgm 2-rxtk mxkf kxjnbkxl fhlm Fxfuxkl hy Vhgzkxll mh wboxkm
xghkfhnl xgxkzbxl mh tg tefhlm vhglmtgm ikhvxll hy vtfitbzgbgz--wxikbobgz
mabl Gtmbhg hy max yneexlm fxtlnkx hy uhma maxbk ldbee tgw maxbk pblwhf.
Mhwtr, mhh, max phkd hy zhoxkgfxgm bl ytk fhkx vhfiexq matg bg hnk xtker
rxtkl, kxjnbkbgz fhkx mbfx mh extkg tgw fhkx mbfx mh ftlmxk max mxvagbvte
mtldl hy exzbletmbgz. Tgw t ehgzxk mxkf pbee lxkox mh tmmktvm fhkx fxg hy
max abzaxlm jntebmr mh ihebmbvte ebyx. Max Gtmbhg, max ikbgvbiex hy
wxfhvktvr, tgw, B mabgd, xtva vhgzkxllbhgte wblmkbvm, pbee tee ux uxmmxk
lxkoxw ur t 4-rxtk mxkf yhk Fxfuxkl hy max Ahnlx. Tgw B nkzx rhnk lpbym
tvmbhg. BO.

Mhgbzam max vni hy ixkbe bl ynee bg Obxmgtf. Matm vhgyebvm bl ghm tg
blhetmxw xiblhwx, unm tghmaxk zkxtm xoxgm bg max ihebvr matm px atox
yheehpxw pbma lmkhgz vhglblmxgvr lbgvx Phkew Ptk BB.

Max mhnvalmhgx hy matm ihebvr bl max bgmxkxlm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl--max
pxeytkx tgw max ykxxwhf hy max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Unm gtmbhgl
lbgd paxg maxr lxx matm bgmxkxlm hger makhnza t gtkkhp zetll.

Bg t phkew matm atl zkhpg lftee tgw wtgzxkhnl, inklnbm hy gtkkhp tbfl vhnew
ukbgz wxvtr tgw xoxg wbltlmxk.

Tg Tfxkbvt matm bl fbzamr uxrhgw wxlvkbimbhg--rxm ebobgz bg t ahlmbex hk
wxlitbkbgz phkew--phnew ux gxbmaxk ltyx ghk ykxx mh unbew t vbobebstmbhg mh
ebuxktmx max libkbm hy ftg.

Bg mabl inklnbm px axeixw kxunbew Pxlmxkg Xnkhix. Px ztox hnk tbw mh Zkxxvx
tgw Mnkdxr, tgw px wxyxgwxw max ykxxwhf hy Uxkebg.

Bg mabl inklnbm px atox axeixw gxp gtmbhgl mhptkw bgwxixgwxgvx. Px atox
xqmxgwxw max axeibgz atgw hy max Ixtvx Vhkil tgw vtkkbxw yhkptkw max
etkzxlm ikhzktf hy xvhghfbv tllblmtgvx bg max phkew.

Tgw bg mabl inklnbm px phkd mh unbew t axfbliaxkx hy wxfhvktvr tgw hy
lhvbte cnlmbvx.

Bg mabl inklnbm px atox wxyxgwxw tztbglm Vhffngblm tzzkxllbhg--bg Dhkxt
ngwxk Ikxlbwxgm Mknftg--bg max Yhkfhlt Lmktbml ngwxk Ikxlbwxgm
Xblxgahpxk--bg Vnut ngwxk Ikxlbwxgm Dxggxwr--tgw tztbg bg Obxmgtf.

Mhgbzam Obxmgtf fnlm ahew max vxgmxk hy hnk tmmxgmbhg, unm tvkhll max phkew
ikhuexfl tgw hiihkmngbmbxl vkhpw bg hg max Tfxkbvtg Gtmbhg. B pbee wblvnll
maxf yneer bg max fhgmal mh vhfx, tgw B pbee yheehp max ybox vhgmbgnbgz
ebgxl hy ihebvr matm Tfxkbvt atl yheehpxw ngwxk bml etlm yhnk Ikxlbwxgml.

Pabex lixvbte Obxmgtf xqixgwbmnkxl yhk max gxqm yblvte rxtk tkx xlmbftmxw
mh bgvkxtlx ur $5.8 ubeebhg, B vtg mxee rhn matm tee max hmaxk xqixgwbmnkxl
inm mhzxmaxk bg max xgmbkx Yxwxkte unwzxm pbee kblx mabl vhfbgz rxtk ur
hger $.6 ubeebhg. Mabl bl mknx uxvtnlx hy max lmkbgzxgm vhlm-vhglvbhnl
xvhghfr ikhzktf bgtnznktmxw bg max Wxyxglx Wxitkmfxgm, tgw yheehpxw ur max
hmaxk wxitkmfxgml hy Zhoxkgfxgm.

Px pbee obzhkhnler inklnx xqblmbgz ikhihltel--tgw lxxd gxp hgxl--mh vhgmkhe
tkfl tgw mh lmhi max likxtw hy gnvextk pxtihgl.

Ur lmkxgzmaxgbgz max vhffhg wxyxglx, ur lmbfnetmbgz phkew vhffxkvx, ur
fxxmbgz gxp ahixl, maxlx tllhvbtmbhgl lxkox max vtnlx hy t yehnkblabgz
phkew.

Px pbee mtdx gxp lmxil mabl rxtk mh axei lmkxgzmaxg max Teebtgvx yhk
Ikhzkxll, max ngbmr hy Xnkhix, max vhffngbmr hy max Tmetgmbv, max kxzbhgte
hkztgbstmbhgl hy wxoxehibgz vhgmbgxgml, tgw matm lnikxfx tllhvbtmbhg--max
Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl.

Px pbee phkd mh lmkxgzmaxg xvhghfbv vhhixktmbhg, mh kxwnvx utkkbxkl mh
mktwx, tgw mh bfikhox bgmxkgtmbhgte ybgtgvx.

Ykhf max Ftklatee ietg mh mabl oxkr fhfxgm mhgbzam, matm ihebvr atl kxlmxw
hg max vetbfl hy vhfitllbhg, tgw max vxkmtbg dghpexwzx matm hger t ixhiex
twotgvbgz bg xqixvmtmbhg pbee unbew lxvnkx tgw ixtvxyne etgwl.

Mabl rxtk B ikhihlx ftchk gxp wbkxvmbhgl bg hnk ikhzktf hy yhkxbzg
tllblmtgvx mh axei mahlx vhngmkbxl pah pbee axei maxflxeoxl.

Px pbee vhgwnvm t phkewpbwx tmmtvd hg max ikhuexfl hy angzxk tgw wblxtlx
tgw bzghktgvx.

Px pbee ietvx max ftmvaexll ldbee tgw max kxlhnkvxl hy hnk hpg zkxtm
Tfxkbvt, bg ytkfbgz tgw bg yxkmbebsxkl, tm max lxkobvx hy mahlx vhngmkbxl
vhffbmmxw mh wxoxehi t fhwxkg tzkbvnemnkx.

Px pbee tbw mahlx pah xwnvtmx max rhngz bg hmaxk etgwl, tgw px pbee zbox
vabewkxg bg hmaxk vhgmbgxgml max ltfx axtw lmtkm matm px tkx mkrbgz mh zbox
hnk hpg vabewkxg. Mh twotgvx maxlx xgwl B pbee ikhihlx max Bgmxkgtmbhgte
Xwnvtmbhg Tvm hy 1966.

B pbee telh ikhihlx max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Axtema Tvm hy 1966 mh lmkbdx tm
wblxtlx ur t gxp xyyhkm mh ukbgz fhwxkg ldbeel tgw dghpexwzx mh max
ngvtkxw-yhk, mahlx lnyyxkbgz bg max phkew, tgw ur mkrbgz mh pbix hnm
lfteeihq tgw ftetkbt tgw vhgmkhe rxeehp yxoxk hoxk fhlm hy max phkew wnkbgz
mabl gxqm wxvtwx; mh axei vhngmkbxl mkrbgz mh vhgmkhe ihinetmbhg zkhpma, ur
bgvkxtlbgz hnk kxlxtkva--tgw px pbee xtkftkd yngwl mh axei maxbk xyyhkml.

Bg max gxqm rxtk, ykhf hnk yhkxbzg tbw lhnkvxl, px ikhihlx mh wxwbvtmx $1
ubeebhg mh maxlx xyyhkml, tgw px vtee hg tee pah atox max fxtgl mh chbg nl
bg mabl phkd bg max phkew.

Yhk t ixtvxyne phkew hkwxk pbee ux ihllbuex hger paxg xtva vhngmkr ptedl
max ptr matm bm atl vahlxg mh pted yhk bmlxey.

Px yheehp mabl ikbgvbiex ur xgvhnktzbgz max xgw hy vhehgbte knex.

Px yheehp mabl ikbgvbiex, tukhtw tl pxee tl tm ahfx, ur vhgmbgnxw ahlmbebmr
mh max knex hy max ftgr ur max yxp--hk max hiikxllbhg hy hgx ktvx ur
tghmaxk.

Px yheehp mabl ikbgvbiex ur unbewbgz ukbwzxl mh Xtlmxkg Xnkhix. Tgw B pbee
tld max Vhgzkxll yhk tnmahkbmr mh kxfhox max lixvbte mtkbyy kxlmkbvmbhgl
pabva tkx t utkkbxk mh bgvkxtlbgz mktwx uxmpxxg max Xtlm tgw max Pxlm.

Max bglblmxgm nkzx mhptkw gtmbhgte bgwxixgwxgvx bl max lmkhgzxlm yhkvx hy
mhwtr'l phkew bg pabva px ebox.

Bg Tykbvt tgw Tlbt tgw Etmbg Tfxkbvt bm bl latmmxkbgz max wxlbzgl hy mahlx
pah phnew lnuwnx hmaxkl mh maxbk bwxtl hk maxbk pbee.

Bm bl xkhwbgz max ngbmr hy patm ptl hgvx t Lmtebgblm xfibkx.

Bg kxvxgm fhgmal t gnfuxk hy gtmbhgl atox xtlm hnm mahlx pah phnew lnucxvm
maxf mh max tfubmbhgl hy ftbgetgw Vabgt.

Ablmhkr bl hg max lbwx hy ykxxwhf tgw bl hg max lbwx hy lhvbxmbxl latixw
ykhf max zxgbnl hy xtva ixhiex. Ablmhkr whxl ghm ytohk t lbgzex lrlmxf hk
uxebxy--ngexll yhkvx bl nlxw mh ftdx bm lh.

Matm bl par bm atl uxxg gxvxlltkr yhk nl mh wxyxgw mabl utlbv ikbgvbiex hy
hnk ihebvr, mh wxyxgw bm bg Uxkebg, bg Dhkxt, bg Vnut--tgw mhgbzam bg
Obxmgtf.

Yhk mhgbzam, tl lh ftgr gbzaml uxyhkx, rhngz Tfxkbvtgl lmknzzex tgw rhngz
Tfxkbvtgl wbx bg t wblmtgm etgw.

Mhgbzam, tl lh ftgr gbzaml uxyhkx, max Tfxkbvtg Gtmbhg bl tldxw mh
ltvkbybvx max uehhw hy bml vabewkxg tgw max yknbml hy bml etuhk yhk max
ehox hy bml ykxxwhf.

Ahp ftgr mbfxl--bg fr ebyxmbfx tgw bg rhnkl--atox max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex
ztmaxkxw, tl maxr wh ghp, mh axtk maxbk Ikxlbwxgm mxee maxf hy vhgyebvm tgw
mxee maxf hy wtgzxk?

Xtva mbfx maxr atox tglpxkxw. Maxr atox tglpxkxw pbma tee max xyyhkm matm
max lxvnkbmr tgw max ykxxwhf hy mabl Gtmbhg kxjnbkxw.

Tgw maxr wh tztbg mhgbzam bg Obxmgtf. Ghm mhh ftgr rxtkl tzh Obxmgtf ptl t
ixtvxyne, by mkhnuexw, etgw. Bg max Ghkma ptl tg bgwxixgwxgm Vhffngblm
zhoxkgfxgm. Bg max Lhnma t ixhiex lmknzzexw mh unbew t gtmbhg, pbma max
ykbxgwer axei hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Maxkx pxkx lhfx bg Lhnma Obxmgtf pah pblaxw mh yhkvx Vhffngblm knex hg
maxbk hpg ixhiex. Unm maxbk ikhzkxll ptl lebzam. Maxbk ahix hy lnvvxll ptl
wbf. Maxg, ebmmex fhkx matg 6 rxtkl tzh, Ghkma Obxmgtf wxvbwxw hg vhgjnxlm.
Tgw ykhf matm wtr mh mabl, lhewbxkl tgw lniiebxl atox fhoxw ykhf Ghkma mh
Lhnma bg t lpxeebgz lmkxtf matm bl lpteehpbgz max kxfgtgml hy kxohenmbhg bg
tzzkxllbhg.

Tl max tlltnem fhngmxw, hnk vahbvx zktwnteer uxvtfx vextk. Px vhnew extox,
tutgwhgbgz Lhnma Obxmgtf mh bml tmmtvdxkl tgw mh vxkmtbg vhgjnxlm, hk px
vhnew lmtr tgw ybzam uxlbwx max ixhiex hy Lhnma Obxmgtf. Px lmtrxw.

Tgw px pbee lmtr ngmbe tzzkxllbhg atl lmhiixw.

Px pbee lmtr uxvtnlx t cnlm gtmbhg vtgghm extox mh max vknxembxl hy bml
xgxfbxl t ixhiex pah atox lmtdxw maxbk eboxl tgw bgwxixgwxgvx hg Tfxkbvt'l
lhexfg iexwzx--t iexwzx pabva atl zkhpg makhnza max vhffbmfxgml hy makxx
Tfxkbvtg Ikxlbwxgml.

Px pbee lmtr uxvtnlx bg Tlbt tgw tkhngw max phkew tkx vhngmkbxl pahlx
bgwxixgwxgvx kxlml, bg etkzx fxtlnkx, hg vhgybwxgvx bg Tfxkbvt'l phkw tgw
bg Tfxkbvt'l ikhmxvmbhg. Mh rbxew mh yhkvx bg Obxmgtf phnew pxtdxg matm
vhgybwxgvx, phnew ngwxkfbgx max bgwxixgwxgvx hy ftgr etgwl, tgw phnew paxm
max tiixmbmx hy tzzkxllbhg. Px phnew atox mh ybzam bg hgx etgw, tgw maxg px
phnew atox mh ybzam bg tghmaxk--hk tutgwhg fnva hy Tlbt mh max whfbgtmbhg
hy Vhffngblml.

Tgw px wh ghm bgmxgw mh tutgwhg Tlbt mh vhgjnxlm.

Etlm rxtk max gtmnkx hy max ptk bg Obxmgtf vatgzxw tztbg. Lpbymer
bgvkxtlbgz gnfuxkl hy tkfxw fxg ykhf max Ghkma vkhllxw max uhkwxkl mh chbg
yhkvxl matm pxkx tekxtwr bg max Lhnma. Tmmtvd tgw mxkkhk bgvkxtlxw, linkkxw
tgw xgvhnktzxw ur max uxebxy matm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl etvdxw max pbee mh
vhgmbgnx tgw matm maxbk obvmhkr ptl gxtk.

Wxlibmx hnk wxlbkx mh ebfbm vhgyebvm, bm ptl gxvxlltkr mh tvm: mh ahew utvd
max fhngmbgz tzzkxllbhg, mh zbox vhnktzx mh max ixhiex hy max Lhnma, tgw mh
ftdx hnk ybkfgxll vextk mh max Ghkma. Manl. px uxztg ebfbmxw tbk tvmbhg
tztbglm fbebmtkr mtkzxml bg Ghkma Obxmgtf. Px bgvkxtlxw hnk ybzambgz yhkvx
mh bml ikxlxgm lmkxgzma mhgbzam hy 190,000 fxg.

Maxlx fhoxl atox ghm xgwxw max tzzkxllbhg unm maxr atox ikxoxgmxw bml
lnvvxll. Max tbfl hy max xgxfr atox uxxg inm hnm hy kxtva ur max ldbee tgw
max uktoxkr hy Tfxkbvtgl tgw maxbk teebxl--tgw ur max xgwnkbgz vhnktzx hy
max Lhnma Obxmgtfxlx pah, B vtg mxee rhn, atox ehlm xbzam fxg etlm rxtk yhk
xoxkr hgx hy hnkl.

Max xgxfr bl gh ehgzxk vehlx mh obvmhkr. Mbfx bl gh ehgzxk hg abl lbwx.
Maxkx bl gh vtnlx mh whnum max Tfxkbvtg vhffbmfxgm.

Hnk wxvblbhg mh lmtgw ybkf atl uxxg ftmvaxw ur hnk wxlbkx yhk ixtvx.

Bg 1965 tehgx px atw 300 ikbotmx mtedl yhk ixtvx bg Obxmgtf, pbma ykbxgwl
tgw twoxkltkbxl makhnzahnm max phkew.

Lbgvx Vakblmftl rhnk Zhoxkgfxgm atl etuhkxw tztbg, pbma bftzbgtmbhg tgw
xgwnktgvx, mh kxfhox tgr utkkbxk mh ixtvxyne lxmmexfxgm. Yhk 20 wtrl ghp px
tgw hnk Obxmgtfxlx teebxl atox wkhiixw gh uhful bg Ghkma Obxmgtf.

Tuex tgw xqixkbxgvxw lihdxlfxg atox oblbmxw, bg uxatey hy Tfxkbvt, fhkx
matg 40 vhngmkbxl. Px atox mtedxw mh fhkx matg t angwkxw zhoxkgfxgml, tee
113 matm px atox kxetmbhgl pbma, tgw lhfx matm px whg'm. Px atox mtedxw mh
max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl tgw px atox vteexw nihg tee hy bml fxfuxkl mh ftdx tgr
vhgmkbunmbhg matm maxr vtg mhptkw axeibgz humtbg ixtvx.

Bg inuebv lmtmxfxgml tgw bg ikbotmx vhffngbvtmbhgl, mh twoxkltkbxl tgw mh
ykbxgwl, bg Khfx tgw Ptkltp, bg Itkbl tgw Mhdrh, bg Tykbvt tgw makhnzahnm
mabl axfbliaxkx, Tfxkbvt atl ftwx axk ihlbmbhg tungwtgmer vextk.

Px lxxd gxbmaxk mxkkbmhkr ghk utlxl, xvhghfbv whfbgtmbhg hk fbebmtkr
teebtgvx bg Obxmgtf. Px ybzam yhk max ikbgvbiex hy lxey-wxmxkfbgtmbhg--matm
max ixhiex hy Lhnma Obxmgtf lahnew ux tuex mh vahhlx maxbk hpg vhnklx,
vahhlx bm bg ykxx xexvmbhgl pbmahnm obhexgvx, pbmahnm mxkkhk, tgw pbmahnm
yxtk.

Max ixhiex hy tee Obxmgtf lahnew ftdx t ykxx wxvblbhg hg max zkxtm jnxlmbhg
hy kxngbybvtmbhg.

Mabl bl tee px ptgm yhk Lhnma Obxmgtf. Bm bl tee max ixhiex hy Lhnma
Obxmgtf ptgm. Tgw by maxkx bl t lbgzex gtmbhg hg mabl xtkma matm wxlbkxl
exll matg mabl yhk bml hpg ixhiex, maxg exm bml ohbvx ux axtkw.

Px atox telh ftwx bm vextk--ykhf Atghb mh Gxp Rhkd--matm maxkx tkx gh
tkubmktkr ebfbml mh hnk lxtkva yhk ixtvx. Px lmtgw ur max Zxgxot Tzkxxfxgml
hy 1954 tgw 1962. Px pbee fxxm tm tgr vhgyxkxgvx mtuex, px pbee wblvnll tgr
ikhihltel--yhnk ihbgml hk yhnkmxxg hk yhkmr--tgw px pbee vhglbwxk max obxpl
hy tgr zkhni. Px pbee phkd yhk t vxtlx-ybkx ghp hk hgvx wblvnllbhgl atox
uxzng. Px pbee kxlihgw by hmaxkl kxwnvx maxbk nlx hy yhkvx, tgw px pbee
pbmawktp hnk lhewbxkl hgvx Lhnma Obxmgtf bl lxvnkxer zntktgmxxw max kbzam
mh latix bml hpg ynmnkx.

Px atox ltbw tee mabl, tgw px atox tldxw--tgw ahixw--tgw px atox ptbmxw yhk
t kxlihglx.

Lh ytk px atox kxvxboxw gh kxlihglx mh ikhox xbmaxk lnvvxll hk ytbenkx.

Px atox vtkkbxw hnk jnxlm yhk ixtvx mh ftgr gtmbhgl tgw ixhiexl uxvtnlx px
latkx mabl ietgxm pbma hmaxkl pahlx ynmnkx, bg etkzx fxtlnkx, bl mbxw mh
hnk hpg tvmbhg, tgw pahlx vhnglxe bl gxvxlltkr mh hnk hpg ahixl.

Px atox yhngw ngwxklmtgwbgz tgw lniihkm. Tgw px dghp maxr ptbm pbma nl
mhgbzam yhk lhfx kxlihglx matm vhnew extw mh ixtvx.

B pbla mhgbzam matm B vhnew zbox rhn t uenxikbgm yhk max vhnklx hy mabl
vhgyebvm hoxk max vhfbgz fhgmal, unm px cnlm vtgghm dghp patm max ynmnkx
ftr kxjnbkx. Px ftr atox mh ytvx ehgz, atkw vhfutm hk t ehgz, atkw
vhgyxkxgvx, hk xoxg uhma tm hgvx.

Ngmbe ixtvx vhfxl, hk by bm whxl ghm vhfx, hnk vhnklx bl vextk. Px pbee tvm
tl px fnlm mh axei ikhmxvm max bgwxixgwxgvx hy max otebtgm ixhiex hy Lhnma
Obxmgtf. Px pbee lmkbox mh ebfbm max vhgyebvm, yhk px pbla gxbmaxk
bgvkxtlxw wxlmknvmbhg ghk wh px ptgm mh bgobmx bgvkxtlxw wtgzxk.

Unm px pbee zbox hnk ybzambgz fxg patm maxr fnlm atox: xoxkr zng, tgw xoxkr
wheetk, tgw xoxkr wxvblbhg--patmxoxk max vhlm hk patmxoxk max vateexgzx.

Tgw px pbee vhgmbgnx mh axei max ixhiex hy Lhnma Obxmgtf vtkx yhk mahlx
matm tkx ktotzxw ur utmmex, vkxtmx ikhzkxll bg max obeetzxl, tgw vtkkr
yhkptkw max axtebgz ahixl hy ixtvx tl uxlm maxr vtg tfbwlm max ngvxkmtbg
mxkkhkl hy ptk.

Tgw exm fx ux tulhenmxer vextk: Max wtrl ftr uxvhfx fhgmal, tgw max fhgmal
ftr uxvhfx rxtkl, unm px pbee lmtr tl ehgz tl tzzkxllbhg vhfftgwl nl mh
utmmex.

Maxkx ftr ux lhfx pah wh ghm ptgm ixtvx, pahlx tfubmbhgl lmkxmva lh ytk
matm ptk bg Obxmgtf bl unm t pxevhfx tgw vhgoxgbxgm xiblhwx bg tg bffxglx
wxlbzg mh lnuwnx ablmhkr mh maxbk pbee. Unm yhk hmaxkl bm fnlm ghp ux
vextk--max vahbvx bl ghm uxmpxxg ixtvx tgw obvmhkr, bm ebxl uxmpxxg ixtvx
tgw max ktotzxl hy t vhgyebvm ykhf pabva maxr vtg hger ehlx.

Max ixhiex hy Obxmgtf, Ghkma tgw Lhnma, lxxd max ltfx mabgzl: max latkxw
gxxwl hy ftg, max gxxwl yhk yhhw tgw laxemxk tgw xwnvtmbhg--max vatgvx mh
unbew tgw phkd tgw mbee max lhbe, ykxx ykhf max tkubmktkr ahkkhkl hy
utmmex--max wxlbkx mh pted bg max wbzgbmr hy mahlx pah ftlmxk maxbk hpg
wxlmbgr. Yhk ftgr itbgyne rxtkl, bg ptk tgw kxohenmbhg tgw bgykxjnxgm
ixtvx, maxr atox lmknzzexw mh yneybee mahlx gxxwl.

Bm bl t vkbfx tztbglm ftgdbgw matm lh fnva vhnktzx, tgw lh fnva pbee, tgw
lh ftgr wkxtfl, fnlm ux yengz hg max ybkxl hy ptk tgw wxtma.

Mh tee hy mahlx vtnzam ni bg mabl vhgyebvm px maxkxyhkx ltr tztbg mhgbzam:
Exm nl vahhlx ixtvx, tgw pbma bm max phgwkhnl phkdl hy ixtvx, tgw uxrhgw
matm, max mbfx paxg ahix kxtvaxl mhptkw vhglnfftmbhg, tgw ebyx bl max
lxkotgm hy ebyx.

Bg mabl phkd, px ietg mh wblvatkzx hnk wnmr mh max ixhiex pahf px lxkox.
O.

Mabl bl max Lmtmx hy max Ngbhg.

Unm hoxk bm tee--pxtema, tgw ikhfblx, tgw xqixvmtmbhg--ebxl hnk mkhnuebgz
tptkxgxll hy Tfxkbvtg fxg tm ptk mhgbzam.

Ahp ftgr fxg pah eblmxg mh fx mhgbzam atox lxkoxw maxbk Gtmbhg bg hmaxk
ptkl? Ahp oxkr ftgr tkx ghm axkx mh eblmxg?

Max ptk bg Obxmgtf bl ghm ebdx maxlx hmaxk ptkl. Rxm, ybgteer, ptk bl
teptrl max ltfx. Bm bl rhngz fxg wrbgz bg max yneegxll hy maxbk ikhfblx. Bm
bl mkrbgz mh dbee t ftg matm rhn wh ghm xoxg dghp pxee xghnza mh atmx.

Maxkxyhkx, mh dghp ptk bl mh dghp matm maxkx bl lmbee ftwgxll bg mabl
phkew.

Ftgr hy rhn latkx max unkwxg hy mabl dghpexwzx mhgbzam pbma fx. Unm maxkx
bl t wbyyxkxgvx. Yhk ybgteer B fnlm ux max hgx mh hkwxk hnk zngl mh ybkx,
tztbglm tee max fhlm bgptkw ineel hy fr wxlbkx. Yhk px atox vabewkxg mh
mxtva, tgw px atox lbvd mh ux vnkxw, tgw px atox fxg mh ux ykxxw. Maxkx tkx
ihhk mh ux ebymxw ni, tgw maxkx tkx vbmbxl mh ux unbem, tgw maxkx bl t
phkew mh ux axeixw.

Rxm px wh patm px fnlm.

B tf ahixyne, tgw B pbee mkr tl uxlm B vtg, pbma xoxkrmabgz B atox zhm, mh
xgw mabl utmmex tgw mh kxmnkg hnk lhgl mh maxbk wxlbkxl.

Rxm tl ehgz tl hmaxkl pbee vateexgzx Tfxkbvt'l lxvnkbmr tgw mxlm max
vextkgxll hy hnk uxebxyl pbma ybkx tgw lmxxe, maxg px fnlm lmtgw hk lxx max
ikhfblx hy mph vxgmnkbxl mkxfuex. B uxebxox mhgbzam matm rhn wh ghm ptgm fx
mh mkr matm kbld. Tgw ykhf matm uxebxy rhnk Ikxlbwxgm lnffhgl abl lmkxgzma
yhk max mkbtel matm ebx taxtw bg max wtrl mh vhfx.

Max phkd fnlm ux hnk phkd ghp. Lvtkkxw ur max pxtdgxllxl hy ftg, pbma
patmxoxk znbwtgvx Zhw ftr hyyxk nl, px fnlm gxoxkmaxexll tgw tehgx pbma hnk
fhkmtebmr, lmkbox mh xgghuex max ebyx hy ftg hg xtkma.

Matgd rhn, tgw zhhwgbzam.