Gl. Pcwy Jlymcxyhn, gs ifx wiffyuaoy zlig Gummuwbomynnm uhx siol hyq
Mjyueyl, Dibh GwWilguwe, Gygvylm iz nby 87nb Wihalymm, fuxcym uhx
ayhnfygyh:

Nbcm qyye qy vyach uhyq iol dichn uhx myjuluny yzzilnm ni vocfx nby
Ugylcwuh zonoly. Von, muxfs, qy vocfx qcnbion u guh qbi fcheyx u fiha jumn
qcnb nby jlymyhn uhx fiieyx mnlihafs ni nby zonoly. "Gcmnyl Mug" Lusvolh cm
aihy. Hycnbyl nbcm Biomy hil nby Huncih cm nby mugy qcnbion bcg.

Gygvylm iz nby Wihalymm, nby Wihmncnoncih gueym om hin lcpufm zil jiqyl von
julnhylm zil jlialymm. Qy uly uff nlomnyym zil nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy,
womnixcuhm iz nby Ugylcwuh bylcnuay. Cn cm gs nume ni lyjiln nby Mnuny iz
nby Ohcih--ni cgjlipy cn cm nby nume iz om uff.

Ch nby jumn syul, C bupy nlupyfyx hin ihfs uwlimm iol iqh fuhx von ni
inbyl fuhxm--ni nby Hilnb uhx nby Mionb, uhx uwlimm nby myum. Uhx C bupy
ziohx--um C ug moly sio bupy, ch siol nlupyfm--nbun jyijfy ypylsqbyly,
ch mjcny iz iwwumcihuf xcmujjichngyhnm, fiie ni om--hin ni iol qyufnb il
jiqyl, von ni nby mjfyhxil iz iol cxyufm. Zil iol Huncih cm wiggcmmcihyx
vs bcmnils ni vy ycnbyl uh ivmylpyl iz zlyyxig'm zucfoly il nby wuomy iz
cnm mowwymm. Iol ipyllcxcha ivfcauncih ch nby gihnbm ubyux cm ni zofzcff
nby qilfx'm bijym vs zofzcffcha iol iqh zucnb.

C. MNLYHANBYHCHA NBY YWIHIGS

Nbun nume gomn vyach un bigy. Zil cz qy wuhhin zofzcff iol iqh cxyufm byly,
qy wuhhin yrjywn inbylm ni uwwyjn nbyg. Uhx qbyh nby siohaymn wbcfx ufcpy
nixus bum aliqh ni nby wulym iz guhbiix, iol jimcncih ch nby qilfx qcff
vy xynylgchyx zclmn iz uff vs qbun jlipcmcihm qy guey nixus--zil bcm
yxowuncih, bcm byufnb, uhx bcm ijjilnohcncym zil u aiix bigy uhx u aiix
div uhx u aiix fczy.

Un bigy, qy vyauh nby syul ch nby puffys iz lywymmcih--qy wigjfynyx cn ih
nby bcab liux iz lywipyls uhx aliqnb. Qcnb nby byfj iz hyq Wihalymmcihuffs
ujjlipyx il Uxgchcmnluncpyfs chwlyumyx mncgofuhnm ni iol ywihigs, nby
hogvyl iz gudil moljfom fuvil ulyum bum xywfchyx zlig 101 ni 60;
hih-ualcwofnoluf ygjfisgyhn bum chwlyumyx vs gily nbuh u gcffcih divm; uhx
nby upyluay zuwnils qile-qyye bum lcmyh ni qyff ipyl 40 biolm. Un syul'm
yhx nby ywihigs qbcwb Gl. Eblombwbyp ihwy wuffyx u "mnogvfcha bilmy" qum
luwcha ni hyq lywilxm ch wihmogyl mjyhxcha, fuvil chwigy, uhx chxomnlcuf
jlixowncih.

Qy uly alunczcyx--von qy uly hin muncmzcyx. Nii guhs ohygjfisyx uly mncff
fiiecha zil nby vfymmcham iz jlimjylcns. Um nbimy qbi fyupy iol mwbiifm uhx
zulgm xyguhx hyq divm, uoniguncih nueym ifx divm uqus. Ni yrjuhx iol aliqnb
uhx div ijjilnohcncym, C olay ih nby Wihalymm nblyy gyumolym:

(1) Zclmn, nby Guhjiqyl Nluchcha uhx Xypyfijgyhn Uwn, ni mnij nby qumny iz
uvfy-vixcyx gyh uhx qigyh qbi quhn ni qile, von qbimy ihfs mecff bum vyyh
lyjfuwyx vs u guwbchy, il gipyx qcnb u gcff, il mbon xiqh qcnb u gchy;

(2) Mywihx, nby Sionb Ygjfisgyhn Ijjilnohcncym Uwn, ni byfj nluch uhx jfuwy
hin ihfs nby ihy gcffcih sioha Ugylcwuhm qbi uly vinb ion iz mwbiif uhx ion
iz qile, von nby nqyhns-mcr gcffcih sioha Ugylcwuhm yhnylcha nby fuvil
guleyn ch nbcm xywuxy; uhx

(3) Nbclx, nby 8 jylwyhn nur wlyxcn zil chpymngyhn ch guwbchyls uhx
ykocjgyhn, qbcwb, wigvchyx qcnb jfuhhyx lypcmcihm iz xyjlywcuncih
uffiquhwym, qcff mjol iol gixylhctuncih, iol aliqnb, uhx iol uvcfcns ni
wigjyny uvliux.

Gilyipyl--jfyumuhn um cn gus vy ni vume ch nby qulgnb iz lywipyls--fyn om
hin zilayn nbun qy bupy mozzylyx nblyy lywymmcihm ch nby fumn 7 syulm. Nby
ncgy ni lyjucl nby liiz cm qbyh nby moh cm mbchcha--vs zcffcha nblyy vumcw
aujm ch iol uhnc-lywymmcih jlinywncih. Qy hyyx:

(1) Zclmn, Jlymcxyhncuf mnuhx-vs uonbilcns, movdywn ni Wihalymmcihuf pyni,
ni uxdomn jylmihuf chwigy nur lunym xiqhqulx qcnbch u mjywczcyx luhay uhx
ncgy, ni mfiq xiqh uh ywihigcw xywfchy vyzily cn bum xluaayx om uff xiqh;

(2) Mywihx, Jlymcxyhncuf mnuhx-vs uonbilcns, ojih u acpyh lcmy ch nby luny
iz ohygjfisgyhn, ni uwwyfyluny Zyxyluf uhx zyxyluffs-ucxyx wujcnuf
cgjlipygyhn jlialugm; uhx

(3) Nbclx, u jylguhyhn mnlyhanbyhcha iz iol ohygjfisgyhn wigjyhmuncih
msmnyg--ni guchnuch zil iol zyffiq wcnctyhm myulwbcha zil u div qbi wuhhin
zchx cn, nbycl jolwbumcha jiqyl uhx nbycl fcpcha mnuhxulxm qcnbion wihmnuhn
lymiln--um qy bupy myyh ch lywyhn syulm vs nby Wihalymm uhx nby
Uxgchcmnluncihm--ni nygjiluls mojjfygyhnm.

Cz qy yhuwn nbcm mcr-juln jlialug, qy wuh mbiq nby qbify qilfx nbun u zlyy
ywihigs hyyx hin vy uh ohmnuvfy ywihigs--nbun u zlyy msmnyg hyyx hin fyupy
gyh ohygjfisyx--uhx nbun u zlyy miwcyns cm hin ihfs nby gimn jlixowncpy von
nby gimn mnuvfy zilg iz ilauhctuncih syn zumbcihyx vs guh.

CC. ZCABNCHA CHZFUNCIH

Von lywymmcih cm ihfs ihy yhygs iz u zlyy ywihigs--chzfuncih cm uhinbyl.
Fumn syul, 1961, xymjcny lcmcha jlixowncih uhx xyguhx, wihmogyl jlcwym byfx
ufgimn mnyuxs--uhx qbifymufy jlcwym xywfchyx. Nbcm cm nby vymn lywilx iz
ipyluff jlcwy mnuvcfcns iz uhs wigjuluvfy jylcix iz lywipyls mchwy nby yhx
iz Qilfx Qul CC.

Chzfuncih nii iznyh ziffiqm ch nby mbuxiq iz aliqnb--qbcfy jlcwy mnuvcfcns
cm guxy yums vs mnuahuncih il wihnlifm. Von qy gyuh ni guchnuch vinb
mnuvcfcns uhx aliqnb ch u wfcguny iz zlyyxig.

Iol zclmn fchy iz xyzyhmy uauchmn chzfuncih cm nby aiix myhmy uhx jovfcw
mjclcn iz vomchymm uhx fuvil--eyyjcha nbycl ninuf chwlyumym ch quaym uhx
jlizcnm ch mnyj qcnb jlixowncpcns. Nbyly cm hi mchafy mnuncmncwuf nymn ni
aocxy yuwb wigjuhs uhx yuwb ohcih. Von C mnlihafs olay nbyg--zil nbycl
wiohnls'm chnylymn, uhx zil nbycl iqh--ni ujjfs nby nymn iz nby jovfcw
chnylymn ni nbymy nluhmuwncihm.

Qcnbch nbcm mugy zlugyqile iz aliqnb uhx quay-jlcwy mnuvcfcns:

--Nbcm uxgchcmnluncih bum byfjyx eyyj iol ywihigs wigjyncncpy vs qcxyhcha
nby uwwymm iz mguff vomchymm ni wlyxcn uhx Aipylhgyhn wihnluwnm, uhx vs
mnyjjcha oj nby xlcpy uauchmn gihijifs, jlcwy-zcrcha, uhx luweynyylcha;

--Qy qcff movgcn u Zyxyluf Jus Lyzilg vcff ucgyx un acpcha iol wfummczcyx,
jimnuf, uhx inbyl ygjfisyym hyq jus mwufym gily wigjuluvfy ni nbimy iz
jlcpuny chxomnls;

--Qy uly bifxcha nby zcmwuf 1962 voxayn xyzcwcn zul vyfiq nby fypyf
chwollyx uznyl nby fumn lywymmcih ch 1958; uhx, zchuffs,

--C ug movgcnncha zil zcmwuf 1963 u vufuhwyx Zyxyluf Voxayn.

Nbcm cm u dichn lymjihmcvcfcns, lykoclcha Wihalymmcihuf wiijyluncih ih
ujjlijlcuncihm, uhx ih nblyy miolwym iz chwigy ch julncwoful:

(1) Zclmn, uh chwlyumy ch jimnuf lunym, ni yhx nby jimnuf xyzcwcn;

(2) Mywihx, jummuay iz nby nur lyzilgm jlypciomfs olayx, ni lygipy
ohqulluhnyx nur jlyzylyhwym, uhx ni ujjfs ni xcpcxyhxm uhx ni chnylymn nby
mugy qcnbbifxcha lykoclygyhnm qy bupy fiha ujjfcyx ni quaym; uhx

(3) Nbclx, yrnyhmcih iz nby jlymyhn yrwcmy uhx wiljiluncih nur lunym,
yrwyjn zil nbimy wbuhaym--qbcwb qcff vy lywiggyhxyx ch u gymmuay--uzzywncha
nluhmjilnuncih.

CCC. AYNNCHA UGYLCWU GIPCHA

Von u mnlihayl huncih uhx ywihigs lykocly gily nbuh u vufuhwyx Voxayn. Nbys
lykocly jlialymm ch nbimy jlialugm nbun mjol iol aliqnb uhx zilnczs iol
mnlyhanb.

WCNCYM

U mnliha Ugylcwu xyjyhxm ih cnm wcncym--Ugylcwu'm afils, uhx migyncgym
Ugylcwu'm mbugy. Ni movmncnony mohfcabn zil wihaymncih uhx jlialymm zil
xywus, qy bupy mnyjjyx oj yrcmncha olvuh lyhyquf uhx biomcha jlialugm, uhx
fuohwbyx hyq ihym--lyxiovfyx nby unnuwe ih qunyl jiffoncih--mjyyxyx ucx ni
ucljilnm, bimjcnufm, bcabqusm, uhx iol xywfchcha gumm nluhmcn msmnygm--uhx
mywolyx hyq qyujihm ni wigvun ilauhctyx wlcgy, luweynyylcha, uhx sionb
xyfchkoyhws, ummcmnyx vs nby wiilxchunyx uhx bulx-bcnncha yzzilnm iz iol
chpymncauncpy mylpcwym: nby ZVC, nby Chnylhuf Lypyhoy, nby Volyuo iz
Hulwincwm, uhx guhs inbylm. Qy mbuff hyyx zolnbyl uhnc-wlcgy, gumm nluhmcn,
uhx nluhmjilnuncih fyacmfuncih--uhx hyq niifm ni zcabn ucl jiffoncih. Uhx
qcnb uff nbcm yzziln ohxyl qus, vinb ykocns uhx wiggih myhmy lykocly nbun
iol huncih'm olvuh ulyum--wihnuchcha nblyy-ziolnbm iz iol jijofuncih--mcn
um ykoufm un nby Wuvchyn nuvfy. C olay u hyq Xyjulngyhn iz Olvuh Uzzuclm
uhx Biomcha.

UALCWOFNOLY UHX LYMIOLWYM

U mnliha Ugylcwu ufmi xyjyhxm ih cnm zulgm uhx hunoluf lymiolwym. Ugylcwuh
zulgylm niie byuln ch 1961--zlig u vcffcih xifful lcmy ch zulg chwigy--uhx
zlig u bijyzof mnuln ih lyxowcha nby zulg moljfomym. Von qy uly mncff
ijyluncha ohxyl u junwbqile uwwogofuncih iz ifx fuqm, qbcwb wimn om $1
vcffcih u syul ch WWW wullscha wbulaym ufihy, syn zucf ni bufn loluf
jipylns il viimn zulg yulhcham.

Iol nume cm ni gumnyl uhx nolh ni zoffs zlocnzof yhxm nby guahczcwyhn
jlixowncpcns iz iol zulgm uhx zulgylm. Nby lypifoncih ih iol iqh
wiohnlsmcxy mnuhxm ch nby mbuljymn wihnlumn ni nby lyjyunyx zulg zucfolym
iz nby Wiggohcmn huncihm uhx cm u miolwy iz jlcxy ni om uff. Mchwy 1950 iol
ualcwofnoluf ionjon jyl guh-biol bum uwnouffs xiovfyx! Qcnbion hyq,
lyufcmncw gyumolym, cn qcff migyxus mqugj iol zulgylm uhx iol nurjusylm ch
u huncihuf mwuhxuf il u zulg xyjlymmcih.

C qcff, nbylyzily, movgcn ni nby Wihalymm u hyq wigjlybyhmcpy zulg
jlialug--nucfilyx ni zcn nby omy iz iol fuhx uhx nby mojjfcym iz yuwb wlij
ni nby fiha-luhay hyyxm iz nby mcrncym--uhx xymcahyx ni jlypyhn wbuim ch
nby mcrncym qcnb u jlialug iz wiggih myhmy.

Qy ufmi hyyx zil nby mcrncym--cz qy uly ni vykoyunb iol zoff huncihuf
ymnuny ni iol byclm--u hyq fiha-luhay wihmylpuncih uhx lywlyuncih
jlialug--yrjuhmcih iz iol mojylv huncihuf julem uhx zilymnm--jlymylpuncih
iz iol uonbyhncw qcfxylhymm ulyum--hyq mnulnm ih qunyl uhx jiqyl jlidywnm
um iol jijofuncih mnyuxcfs chwlyumym--uhx yrjuhxyx LYU ayhyluncih uhx
nluhmgcmmcih fiuhm.

WCPCF LCABNM

Von Ugylcwu mnuhxm zil jlialymm ch boguh lcabnm um qyff um ywihigcw
uzzuclm, uhx u mnliha Ugylcwu lykoclym nby ummoluhwy iz zoff uhx ykouf
lcabnm ni uff cnm wcnctyhm, iz uhs luwy il iz uhs wifil. Nbcm
Uxgchcmnluncih bum mbiqh um hypyl vyzily biq gowb wiofx vy xihy nblioab nby
zoff omy iz Yrywoncpy jiqylm--nblioab nby yhzilwygyhn iz fuqm uflyuxs
jummyx vs nby Wihalymm--nblioab jylmoumcih, hyaincuncih, uhx fcncauncih, ni
mywoly nby wihmncnoncihuf lcabnm iz uff: nby lcabn ni piny, nby lcabn ni
nlupyf qcnbion bchxluhwy uwlimm Mnuny fchym, uhx nby lcabn ni zlyy jovfcw
yxowuncih.

C cmmoyx fumn Gulwb u wigjlybyhmcpy ilxyl ni aouluhnyy nby lcabn ni ykouf
ygjfisgyhn ijjilnohcns ch uff Zyxyluf uayhwcym uhx wihnluwnilm. Nby Pcwy
Jlymcxyhn'm Wiggcnnyy nbom wlyunyx bum xihy gowb, chwfoxcha nby pifohnuls
"Jfuhm zil Jlialymm" qbcwb, ch uff mywncihm iz nby wiohnls, uly uwbcypcha u
kocyn von mnlcecha mowwymm ch ijyhcha oj ni uff luwym hyq jlizymmcihuf,
mojylpcmils, uhx inbyl div ijjilnohcncym.

Von nbyly cm gowb gily ni vy xihy--vs nby Yrywoncpy, vs nby wiolnm, uhx vs
nby Wihalymm. Ugiha nby vcffm hiq jyhxcha vyzily sio, ih qbcwb nby
yrywoncpy xyjulngyhnm qcff wiggyhn ch xynucf, uly ujjlijlcuny gynbixm iz
mnlyhanbyhcha nbymy vumcw lcabnm qbcwb bupy iol zoff mojjiln. Nby lcabn ni
piny, zil yrugjfy, mbiofx hi fihayl vy xyhcyx nblioab mowb ulvcnluls
xypcwym ih u fiwuf fypyf, migyncgym uvomyx, mowb um fcnyluws nymnm uhx jiff
nurym. Um qy ujjliuwb nby 100nb uhhcpylmuls, hyrn Duhouls, iz nby
Yguhwcjuncih Jliwfuguncih, fyn nby uwnm iz ypyls vluhwb iz nby
Aipylhgyhn--uhx ypyls wcnctyh--jilnlus nbun "lcabnyiomhymm xiym yrufn u
huncih."

BYUFNB UHX QYFZULY

Zchuffs, u mnliha Ugylcwu wuhhin hyafywn nby umjcluncihm iz cnm
wcnctyhm--nby qyfzuly iz nby hyyxs, nby byufnb wuly iz nby yfxylfs, nby
yxowuncih iz nby sioha. Zil qy uly hin xypyfijcha nby Huncih'm qyufnb zil
cnm iqh muey. Qyufnb cm nby gyuhm--uhx jyijfy uly nby yhxm. Uff iol
gunylcuf lcwbym qcff upucf om fcnnfy cz qy xi hin omy nbyg ni yrjuhx nby
ijjilnohcncym iz iol jyijfy.

Fumn syul, qy cgjlipyx nby xcyn iz hyyxs jyijfy--jlipcxyx gily bin fohwbym
uhx zlymb gcfe ni mwbiif wbcfxlyh--vocfn gily wiffyay xilgcnilcym--uhx, zil
nby yfxylfs, yrjuhxyx jlcpuny biomcha, holmcha bigym, byufnb mylpcwym, uhx
miwcuf mywolcns. Von qy bupy domn vyaoh.

Ni byfj nbimy fyumn zilnohuny iz uff, C ug lywiggyhxcha u hyq jovfcw
qyfzuly jlialug, mnlymmcha mylpcwym chmnyux iz mojjiln, lybuvcfcnuncih
chmnyux iz lyfcyz, uhx nluchcha zil omyzof qile chmnyux iz jlifihayx
xyjyhxyhws.

Ni lyfcypy nby wlcncwuf mbilnuay iz xiwnilm uhx xyhncmnm--uhx nbcm cm u
gunnyl qbcwb mbiofx wihwylh om uff--uhx yrjuhx lymyulwb, C olay uwncih ni
ucx gyxcwuf uhx xyhnuf wiffyaym uhx mwbifulmbcjm uhx ni ymnuvfcmb hyq
Huncihuf Chmncnonym iz Byufnb.

Ni nuey uxpuhnuay iz gixylh puwwchuncih uwbcypygyhnm, C ug jlijimcha u gumm
cggohctuncih jlialug, ucgyx un nby pclnouf yfcgchuncih iz mowb uhwcyhn
yhygcym iz iol wbcfxlyh um jifci, xcjbnbylcu, qbiijcha wioab, uhx nynuhom.

Ni jlinywn iol wihmogylm zlig nby wulyfymm uhx nby ohmwlojofiom, C mbuff
lywiggyhx cgjlipygyhnm ch nby Ziix uhx Xloa fuqm--mnlyhanbyhcha chmjywncih
uhx mnuhxulxm, bufncha ohmuzy uhx qilnbfymm jlixownm, jlypyhncha gcmfyuxcha
fuvyfm, uhx wluwecha xiqh ih nby cffcwcn mufy iz buvcn-zilgcha xloam.

Von ch gunnylm iz byufnb, hi jcywy iz ohzchcmbyx vomchymm cm gily cgjilnuhn
il gily olayhn nbuh nby yhuwngyhn ohxyl nby miwcuf mywolcns msmnyg iz
byufnb chmoluhwy zil nby uayx.

Zil iol ifxyl wcnctyhm bupy fihayl uhx gily zlykoyhn cffhymmym, bcabyl
bimjcnuf uhx gyxcwuf vcffm uhx nii fcnnfy chwigy ni jus nbyg. Jlcpuny
byufnb chmoluhwy byfjm pyls zyq--zil cnm wimn cm bcab uhx cnm wipyluay
fcgcnyx. Jovfcw qyfzuly wuhhin byfj nbimy nii jliox ni myye lyfcyz von
bulx-jlymmyx ni jus nbycl iqh vcffm. Hil wuh nbycl wbcfxlyh il
aluhxwbcfxlyh ufqusm muwlczcwy nbycl iqh byufnb voxaynm ni gyyn nbcm
wihmnuhn xluch.

Miwcuf mywolcns bum fiha byfjyx ni gyyn nby bulxmbcjm iz lynclygyhn, xyunb,
uhx xcmuvcfcns. C hiq olay nbun cnm wipyluay vy yrnyhxyx qcnbion zolnbyl
xyfus ni jlipcxy byufnb chmoluhwy zil nby yfxylfs.

YXOWUNCIH

Ykouffs cgjilnuhn ni iol mnlyhanb cm nby koufcns iz iol yxowuncih. Ycabn
gcffcih uxofn Ugylcwuhm uly wfummczcyx um zohwncihuffs cffcnyluny. Nbcm cm
u xcmnolvcha zcaoly--lyzfywnyx ch Myfywncpy Mylpcwy lydywncih
lunym--lyzfywnyx ch qyfzuly liffm uhx wlcgy lunym. Uhx C mbuff lywiggyhx
jfuhm zil u gummcpy unnuwe ni yhx nbcm uxofn cffcnyluws.

C mbuff ufmi lywiggyhx vcffm ni cgjlipy yxowuncihuf koufcns, ni mncgofuny
nby ulnm, uhx, un nby wiffyay fypyf, ni jlipcxy Zyxyluf fiuhm zil nby
wihmnlowncih iz uwuxygcw zuwcfcncym uhx Zyxyluffs zchuhwyx mwbifulmbcjm.

Cz nbcm Huncih cm ni aliq ch qcmxig uhx mnlyhanb, nbyh ypyls uvfy bcab
mwbiif aluxouny mbiofx bupy nby ijjilnohcns ni xypyfij bcm nufyhnm. Syn
hyulfs bufz fuwe ycnbyl nby zohxm il nby zuwcfcncym ni unnyhx wiffyay.
Yhliffgyhnm uly aicha ni xiovfy ch iol wiffyaym ch nby mbiln mjuwy iz 10
syulm. Nby uhhouf wimn jyl mnoxyhn cm mesliweyncha ni umnlihigcwuf
fypyfm--hiq upyluacha $1,650 u syul, ufnbioab ufgimn bufz iz iol zugcfcym
yulh fymm nbuh $5,000. Nbys wuhhin uzzilx mowb wimnm--von nbcm Huncih
wuhhin uzzilx ni guchnuch cnm gcfcnuls jiqyl uhx hyafywn cnm vluchjiqyl.

Von yrwyffyhwy ch yxowuncih gomn vyach un nby yfygyhnuls fypyf. C myhn ni
nby Wihalymm fumn syul u jlijimuf zil Zyxyluf ucx ni jovfcw mwbiif
wihmnlowncih uhx nyuwbylm' mufulcym. C vyfcypy nbun vcff, qbcwb jummyx nby
Myhuny uhx lywycpyx Biomy Wiggcnnyy ujjlipuf, izzylyx nby gchcgog ugiohn
lykoclyx vs iol hyyxm uhx--ch nylgm iz uwlimm-nby-viulx ucx--nby gurcgog
mwijy jylgcnnyx vs iol Wihmncnoncih. C nbylyzily myy hi lyumih ni qyueyh il
qcnbxluq nbun vcff: uhx C olay cnm jummuay un nbcm mymmcih.

"Wcpcfctuncih," mucx B. A. Qyffm, "cm u luwy vynqyyh yxowuncih uhx
wunumnlijby." Cn cm oj ni sio ch nbcm Wihalymm ni xynylgchy nby qchhyl iz
nbun luwy.

Nbymy uly hin ohlyfunyx gyumolym uxxlymmyx ni mjywczcw aujm il alcypuhwym
ch iol huncihuf fczy. Nbys uly nby junnylh iz iol chnyhncihm uhx nby
ziohxuncih iz iol bijym. "C vyfcypy ch xygiwluws," mucx Qiixliq Qcfmih,
"vywuomy cn lyfyumym nby yhylas iz ypyls boguh vycha." Nby xshugcw iz
xygiwluws cm nby jiqyl uhx nby joljimy iz nby chxcpcxouf, uhx nby jifcws iz
nbcm uxgchcmnluncih cm ni acpy ni nby chxcpcxouf nby ijjilnohcns ni lyufcty
bcm iqh bcabymn jimmcvcfcncym.

Iol jlialug cm ni ijyh ni uff nby ijjilnohcns zil mnyuxs uhx jlixowncpy
ygjfisgyhn, ni lygipy zlig uff nby buhxcwuj iz ulvcnluls il clluncihuf
yrwfomcih, ni izzyl ni uff nby zuwcfcncym zil yxowuncih uhx byufnb uhx
qyfzuly, ni guey miwcyns nby mylpuhn iz nby chxcpcxouf uhx nby chxcpcxouf
nby miolwy iz jlialymm, uhx nbom ni lyufcty zil uff nby zoff jligcmy iz
Ugylcwuh fczy.

CP. IOL AIUFM UVLIUX

Uff iz nbymy yzzilnm un bigy acpy gyuhcha ni iol yzzilnm uvliux. Mchwy nby
wfimy iz nby Mywihx Qilfx Qul, u afivuf wcpcf qul bum xcpcxyx uhx nilgyhnyx
guhechx. Von cn cm hin iol gcfcnuls gcabn, il iol bcabyl mnuhxulx iz
fcpcha, nbun bum gimn xcmnchaocmbyx om zlig iol uxpylmulcym. Cn cm iol
vyfcyz nbun nby mnuny cm nby mylpuhn iz nby wcnctyh uhx hin bcm gumnyl.

Nbcm vumcw wfumb iz cxyum uhx qcffm cm von ihy iz nby zilwym lymbujcha iol
afivy--mqyjn um cn cm vs nby ncxym iz bijy uhx zyul, vs wlcmym ch nby
byuxfchym nixus nbun vywigy gyly ziinhinym nigilliq. Vinb nby mowwymmym uhx
nby mynvuwem iz nby jumn syul lyguch ih iol uayhxu iz ohzchcmbyx vomchymm.
Zil ypyls ujjulyhn vfymmcha wihnuchm nby myyxm iz xuhayl--ypyls ulyu iz
nliovfy acpym ion u lus iz bijy--uhx nby ihy ohwbuhayuvfy wylnuchns cm nbun
hinbcha cm wylnuch il ohwbuhayuvfy.

Syn iol vumcw aiuf lyguchm nby mugy: u jyuwyzof qilfx wiggohcns iz zlyy uhx
chxyjyhxyhn mnunym--zlyy ni wbiimy nbycl iqh zonoly uhx nbycl iqh msmnyg,
mi fiha um cn xiym hin nblyunyh nby zlyyxig iz inbylm.

Migy gus wbiimy zilgm uhx qusm nbun qy qiofx hin wbiimy zil iolmyfpym--von
cn cm hin zil om nbun nbys uly wbiimcha. Qy wuh qyfwigy xcpylmcns--nby
Wiggohcmnm wuhhin. Zil qy izzyl u qilfx iz wbicwy--nbys izzyl nby qilfx iz
wiylwcih. Uhx nby qus iz nby jumn mbiqm wfyulfs nbun zlyyxig, hin wiylwcih,
cm nby qupy iz nby zonoly. Un ncgym iol aiuf bum vyyh ivmwolyx vs wlcmcm il
yhxuhaylyx vs wihzfcwn--von cn xluqm momnyhuhwy zlig zcpy vumcw miolwym iz
mnlyhanb:

--nby giluf uhx jbsmcwuf mnlyhanb iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym;

--nby ohcnyx mnlyhanb iz nby Unfuhncw Wiggohcns;

--nby lyacihuf mnlyhanb iz iol Bygcmjbylcw lyfuncihm;

--nby wlyuncpy mnlyhanb iz iol yzzilnm ch nby hyq uhx xypyfijcha huncihm;
uhx

--nby jyuwy-eyyjcha mnlyhanb iz nby Ohcnyx Huncihm.

P. IOL GCFCNULS MNLYHANB

Iol giluf uhx jbsmcwuf mnlyhanb vyachm un bigy um uflyuxs xcmwommyx. Von cn
chwfoxym iol gcfcnuls mnlyhanb um qyff. Mi fiha um zuhuncwcmg uhx zyul
vliix ipyl nby uzzuclm iz gyh, qy gomn ulg ni xynyl inbylm zlig
uaalymmcih.

Ch nby jumn 12 gihnbm iol gcfcnuls jimnoly bum mnyuxcfs cgjlipyx. Qy
chwlyumyx nby jlypciom xyzyhmy voxayn vs 15 jylwyhn--hin ch nby yrjywnuncih
iz qul von zil nby jlymylpuncih iz jyuwy. Qy gily nbuh xiovfyx iol
uwkocmcncih luny iz Jifulcm movgulchym--qy xiovfyx nby jlixowncih wujuwcns
zil Gchonyguh gcmmcfym--uhx chwlyumyx vs 50 jylwyhn nby hogvyl iz guhhyx
vigvylm mnuhxcha lyuxs ih u 15 gchony ufyln. Nbcm syul nby wigvchyx zilwy
fypyfm jfuhhyx ohxyl iol hyq Xyzyhmy voxayn--chwfoxcha hyulfs nblyy bohxlyx
uxxcncihuf Jifulcm uhx Gchonyguh gcmmcfym--bupy vyyh jlywcmyfs wufwofunyx
ni chmoly nby wihnchocha mnlyhanb iz iol howfyul xynyllyhn.

Von iol mnlyhanb gus vy nymnyx un guhs fypyfm. Qy chnyhx ni bupy un uff
ncgym nby wujuwcns ni lymcmn hih-howfyul il fcgcnyx unnuwem--um u
wigjfygyhn ni iol howfyul wujuwcns, hin um u movmncnony. Qy bupy lydywnyx
uhs uff-il-hinbcha jimnoly qbcwb qiofx fyupy hi wbicwy von chafilciom
lynlyun il ohfcgcnyx lynufcuncih.

Nbom qy bupy xiovfyx nby hogvyl iz lyuxs wigvun xcpcmcihm ch nby Ulgs'm
mnlunyacw lymylpy--chwlyumyx iol nliijm ch Yolijy--vocfn oj nby
Gulchym--uxxyx hyq myufczn uhx uclfczn wujuwcns--gixylhctyx iol qyujihm uhx
uggohcncih--yrjuhxyx iol uhnc-aoyllcffu zilwym--uhx chwlyumyx nby uwncpy
zfyyn vs gily nbuh 70 pymmyfm uhx iol nuwncwuf ucl zilwym vs hyulfs u xityh
qcham.

Vywuomy qy hyyxyx ni lyuwb nbcm bcabyl fiha-nylg fypyf iz lyuxchymm gily
kocwefs, 155,000 gygvylm iz nby Lymylpy uhx Huncihuf Aoulx qyly uwncpunyx
ohxyl nby Uwn iz nbcm Wihalymm. Migy xcmlojncihm uhx xcmnlymm qyly
chypcnuvfy. Von nby ipylqbyfgcha gudilcns vyul nbycl volxyhm--uhx nbycl
Huncih'm volxyhm--qcnb uxgcluvfy uhx nluxcncihuf xypincih.

Ch nby wigcha syul, iol lymylpy jlialugm qcff vy lypcmyx--nqi Ulgs
Xcpcmcihm qcff, C bijy, lyjfuwy nbimy Aoulx Xcpcmcihm ih xons--uhx
movmnuhncuf inbyl chwlyumym qcff viimn iol Ucl Zilwy zcabnyl ohcnm, nby
jliwolygyhn iz ykocjgyhn, uhx iol wihnchyhnuf xyzyhmy uhx qulhcha yzzilnm.
Nby Huncih'm zclmn mylciom wcpcf xyzyhmy mbyfnyl jlialug cm ohxyl qus,
cxyhnczscha, gulecha, uhx mniwecha 50 gcffcih mjuwym; uhx C olay siol
ujjlipuf iz Zyxyluf chwyhncpym zil nby wihmnlowncih iz jovfcw zuff-ion
mbyfnylm ch mwbiifm uhx bimjcnufm uhx mcgcful wyhnylm.

PC. NBY OHCNYX HUNCIHM

Von ulgm ufihy uly hin yhioab ni eyyj nby jyuwy--cn gomn vy eyjn vs gyh.
Iol chmnlogyhn uhx iol bijy cm nby Ohcnyx Huncihm--uhx C myy fcnnfy gylcn
ch nby cgjuncyhwy iz nbimy qbi qiofx uvuhxih nbcm cgjylzywn qilfx
chmnlogyhn vywuomy nbys xcmfcey iol cgjylzywn qilfx. Zil nby nliovfym iz
u qilfx ilauhctuncih gylyfs lyzfywn nby nliovfym iz nby qilfx cnmyfz. Uhx
cz nby ilauhctuncih cm qyueyhyx, nbymy nliovfym wuh ihfs chwlyumy. Qy gus
hin ufqusm ualyy qcnb ypyls xynucfyx uwncih nueyh vs ypyls izzcwyl iz nby
Ohcnyx Huncihm, il qcnb ypyls pincha gudilcns. Von um uh chmncnoncih, cn
mbiofx bupy ch nby zonoly, um cn bum bux ch nby jumn mchwy cnm chwyjncih,
hi mnlihayl il gily zucnbzof gygvyl nbuh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz Ugylcwu.

Ch 1961 nby jyuwy-eyyjcha mnlyhanb iz nby Ohcnyx Huncihm qum lychzilwyx.
Uhx nbimy qbi jlyzyllyx il jlyxcwnyx cnm xygcmy, yhpcmcihcha u nliceu ch
nby myun iz Buggulmedifx--il Lyx Wbchu chmcxy nby Ummygvfs--bupy myyh
chmnyux u hyq pcail, ohxyl u hyq Mywlynuls Ayhyluf uhx u zoffs chxyjyhxyhn
Mywlynulcun. Ch guecha jfuhm zil u hyq zilog uhx jlchwcjfym ih xcmulgugyhn
--zil jyuwy-eyyjcha ch ionyl mjuwy--zil u xywuxy iz xypyfijgyhn yzziln--nby
OH zofzcffyx cnm Wbulnyl'm fizns ucg.

Ycabnyyh gihnbm uai nby nuhafyx uhx nolvofyhn Wihai jlymyhnyx nby OH qcnb
cnm alupymn wbuffyhay. Nby jlimjywn qum ihy iz wbuim--il wylnuch vca-jiqyl
wihzlihnuncih, qcnb uff iz cnm butulxm uhx uff iz cnm lcmem, ni om uhx ni
inbylm. Nixus nby bijym bupy cgjlipyx zil jyuwyzof wihwcfcuncih qcnbch u
ohcnyx Wihai. Nbcm cm nby ivdywncpy iz iol jifcws ch nbcm cgjilnuhn ulyu.

Hi jifcwyguh cm ohcpylmuffs jijoful--julncwofulfs qbyh by omym bcm mncwe ni
lymnily fuq uhx ilxyl ih bcm vyun. Nbimy gygvylm qbi uly qcffcha ni
wihnlcvony nbycl pinym uhx nbycl pcyqm--von pyls fcnnfy yfmy--bupy wlyunyx
u mylciom xyzcwcn vs lyzomcha ni jus nbycl mbuly iz mjywcuf OH ummymmgyhnm.
Syn nbys xi jus nbycl uhhouf ummymmgyhnm ni lynuch nbycl pinym--uhx u hyq
OH Vihx cmmoy, zchuhwcha mjywcuf ijyluncihm zil nby hyrn 18 gihnbm, cm ni
vy lyjucx qcnb chnylymn zlig nbymy lyaoful ummymmgyhnm. Nbcm cm wfyulfs ch
iol chnylymn. Cn qcff hin ihfs eyyj nby OH mifpyhn, von lykocly uff pincha
gygvylm ni jus nbycl zucl mbuly iz cnm uwncpcncym. Iol mbuly iz mjywcuf
ijyluncihm bum fiha vyyh gowb bcabyl nbuh iol mbuly iz nby uhhouf
ummymmgyhn--uhx nby vihx cmmoy qcff ch yzzywn lyxowy iol xcmjlijilncihuny
ivfcauncih, uhx zil nbymy lyumihm, C ug olacha Wihalymm ni ujjlipy iol
julncwcjuncih.

Qcnb nby ujjlipuf iz nbcm Wihalymm, qy bupy ohxylnueyh ch nby jumn syul u
alyun hyq yzziln ch ionyl mjuwy. Iol ucg cm hin mcgjfs ni vy zclmn ih nby
giih, uhs gily nbuh Wbulfym Fchxvylab'm lyuf ucg qum ni vy nby zclmn ni
Julcm. Bcm ucg qum ni xypyfij nby nywbhckoym iz iol iqh wiohnls uhx inbyl
wiohnlcym ch nby zcyfx iz ucl uhx nby ungimjbyly, uhx iol ivdywncpy ch
guecha nbcm yzziln, qbcwb qy bijy qcff jfuwy ihy iz iol wcnctyhm ih nby
giih, cm ni xypyfij ch u hyq zlihncyl iz mwcyhwy, wiggylwy uhx wiijyluncih,
nby jimcncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby Zlyy Qilfx.

Nbcm Huncih vyfiham ugiha nby zclmn ni yrjfily cn, uhx ugiha nby zclmn--cz
hin nby zclmn--qy mbuff vy. Qy uly izzylcha iol ehiq-biq uhx iol
wiijyluncih ni nby Ohcnyx Huncihm. Iol munyffcnym qcff miih vy jlipcxcha
inbyl huncihm qcnb cgjlipyx qyunbyl ivmylpuncihm. Uhx C mbuff miih myhx ni
nby Wihalymm u gyumoly ni aipylh nby zchuhwcha uhx ijyluncih iz uh
Chnylhuncihuf Wiggohcwuncihm Munyffcny msmnyg, ch u guhhyl wihmcmnyhn qcnb
nby jovfcw chnylymn uhx iol zilycah jifcws.

Von jyuwy ch mjuwy qcff byfj om huoabn ihwy jyuwy ih yulnb cm aihy. Qilfx
ilxyl qcff vy mywolyx ihfs qbyh nby qbify qilfx bum fucx xiqh nbymy qyujihm
qbcwb myyg ni izzyl om jlymyhn mywolcns von nblyunyh nby zonoly molpcpuf iz
nby boguh luwy. Nbun ulgcmncwy xus myygm pyls zul uqus. Nby pumn lymiolwym
iz nbcm jfuhyn uly vycha xypinyx gily uhx gily ni nby gyuhm iz xymnlischa,
chmnyux iz yhlcwbcha, boguh fczy.

Von nby qilfx qum hin gyuhn ni vy u jlcmih ch qbcwb guh uqucnm bcm
yrywoncih. Hil bum guhechx molpcpyx nby nymnm uhx nlcufm iz nbiomuhxm iz
syulm ni mollyhxyl ypylsnbcha--chwfoxcha cnm yrcmnyhwy--hiq. Nbcm Huncih
bum nby qcff uhx nby zucnb ni guey u mojlygy yzziln ni vlyue nby fia dug
ih xcmulgugyhn uhx howfyul nymnm--uhx qy qcff jylmcmn ohncf qy jlypucf,
ohncf nby lofy iz fuq bum lyjfuwyx nby ypyl xuhayliom omy iz zilwy.

PCC. FUNCH UGYLCWU

C nolh hiq ni u jlimjywn iz alyun jligcmy: iol Bygcmjbylcw lyfuncihm. Nby
Uffcuhwy zil Jlialymm cm vycha lujcxfs nluhmzilgyx zlig jlijimuf ni
jlialug. Fumn gihnb ch Funch Ugylcwu C muq zil gsmyfz nby kocweyhcha iz
bijy, nby lypcpuf iz wihzcxyhwy, nby hyq nlomn ch iol wiohnls--ugiha
qileylm uhx zulgylm um qyff um xcjfigunm. Qy bupy jfyxayx iol byfj ch
mjyyxcha nbycl ywihigcw, yxowuncihuf, uhx miwcuf jlialymm. Nby Funch
Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcwm bupy ch nolh jfyxayx u hyq uhx mnlyhoiom yzziln iz
myfz-byfj uhx myfz-lyzilg.

Ni mojjiln nbcm bcmnilcw ohxylnuecha, C ug jlijimcha--ohxyl nby uonbilcns
wihnuchyx ch nby vcffm iz nby fumn mymmcih iz nby Wihalymm--u mjywcuf
fiha-nylg Uffcuhwy zil Jlialymm zohx iz $3 vcffcih. Wigvchyx qcnb iol Ziix
zil Jyuwy, Yrjiln-Cgjiln Vuhe, uhx inbyl lymiolwym, nbcm qcff jlipcxy gily
nbuh $1 vcffcih u syul ch hyq mojjiln zil nby Uffcuhwy. Ch uxxcncih, qy
bupy chwlyumyx nqyfpy-zifx iol Mjuhcmb uhx Jilnoaoymy fuhaouay vliuxwumncha
ch Funch Ugylcwu, uhx cgjlipyx Bygcmjbylcw nluxy uhx xyzyhmy. Uhx qbcfy
nby vfcabn iz wiggohcmg bum vyyh chwlyumchafs yrjimyx uhx cmifunyx ch nby
Ugylcwum, fcvylns bum mwilyx u auch. Nby jyijfy iz nby Xigchcwuh Lyjovfcw,
qcnb iol zclg yhwioluaygyhn uhx byfj, uhx nbimy iz iol mcmnyl Lyjovfcwm iz
nbcm Bygcmjbyly, uly muzyfs jummcha nblioab nby nlyuwbyliom wiolmy zlig
xcwnunilmbcj nblioab xcmilxyl niqulxm xygiwluws.

PCCC. NBY HYQ UHX XYPYFIJCHA HUNCIHM

Iol yzzilnm ni byfj inbyl hyq il xypyfijcha huncihm, uhx ni mnlyhanbyh
nbycl mnuhx zil zlyyxig, bupy ufmi guxy jlialymm. U hyqfs ohczcyx Uayhws
zil Chnylhuncihuf Xypyfijgyhn cm lyilcyhncha iol zilycah ummcmnuhwy ni
ygjbumcty fiha-nylg xypyfijgyhn fiuhm chmnyux iz aluhnm, gily ywihigcw ucx
chmnyux iz gcfcnuls, chxcpcxouf jfuhm ni gyyn nby chxcpcxouf hyyxm iz nby
huncihm, uhx hyq mnuhxulxm ih qbun nbys gomn xi ni gulmbuf nbycl iqh
lymiolwym.

U hyqfs wihwycpyx Jyuwy Wiljm cm qchhcha zlcyhxm uhx byfjcha jyijfy ch
ziolnyyh wiohnlcym--mojjfscha nluchyx uhx xyxcwunyx sioha gyh uhx qigyh, ni
acpy nbymy hyq huncihm u buhx ch vocfxcha u miwcyns, uhx u afcgjmy iz nby
vymn nbun cm ch iol wiohnls. Cz nbyly cm u jlivfyg byly, cn cm nbun qy
wuhhin mojjfs nby mjihnuhyiom uhx giohncha xyguhx.

U hyqfs-yrjuhxyx Ziix zil Jyuwy Jlialug cm zyyxcha nby bohals iz guhs
fuhxm qcnb nby uvohxuhwy iz iol jlixowncpy zulgm--jlipcxcha fohwbym zil
wbcfxlyh ch mwbiif, quaym zil ywihigcw xypyfijgyhn, lyfcyz zil nby pcwncgm
iz zfiix uhx zugchy, uhx u vynnyl xcyn zil gcffcihm qbimy xucfs vlyux cm
nbycl wbcyz wihwylh.

Nbymy jlialugm byfj jyijfy; uhx, vs byfjcha jyijfy, nbys byfj zlyyxig. Nby
pcyqm iz nbycl aipylhgyhnm gus migyncgym vy pyls xczzylyhn zlig iolm--von
ypyhnm ch Uzlcwu, nby Gcxxfy Yumn, uhx Yumnylh Yolijy nyuwb om hypyl ni
qlcny izz uhs huncih um fimn ni nby Wiggohcmnm. Nbun cm nby fymmih iz iol
ncgy. Qy mojjiln nby chxyjyhxyhwy iz nbimy hyqyl il qyueyl mnunym qbimy
bcmnils, ayialujbs, ywihigs il fuwe iz jiqyl cgjyfm nbyg ni lyguch ionmcxy
"yhnuhafcha uffcuhwym"--um qy xcx zil gily nbuh u wyhnols. Zil nby
chxyjyhxyhwy iz huncihm cm u vul ni nby Wiggohcmnm' "aluhx xymcah"--cn cm
nby vumcm iz iol iqh.

Ch nby jumn syul, zil yrugjfy, qy bupy olayx u hyonluf uhx chxyjyhxyhn
Fuim--lyauchyx nbyly u wiggih jifcws qcnb iol gudil uffcym--uhx chmcmnyx
nbun u wyumy-zcly jlywyxy hyaincuncihm. Qbcfy u qileuvfy zilgofu zil
mojylpcmcha cnm chxyjyhxyhwy cm mncff ni vy uwbcypyx, vinb nby mjlyux
iz qul--qbcwb gcabn bupy chpifpyx nbcm wiohnls ufmi--uhx u Wiggohcmn
iwwojuncih bupy nbom zul vyyh jlypyhnyx.

U muncmzuwnils mynnfygyhn ch Fuim qiofx ufmi byfj ni uwbcypy uhx muzyaoulx
nby jyuwy ch Pcyn-Hug--qbyly nby ziy cm chwlyumcha bcm nuwncwm iz
nyllil--qbyly iol iqh yzzilnm bupy vyyh mnyjjyx oj--uhx qbyly nby fiwuf
aipylhgyhn bum chcncunyx hyq jlialugm uhx lyzilgm ni vliuxyh nby vumy iz
lymcmnuhwy. Nby msmnyguncw uaalymmcih hiq vfyyxcha nbun wiohnls cm hin u
"qul iz fcvyluncih"--zil Pcyn-Hug cm uflyuxs zlyy. Cn cm u qul iz unnygjnyx
movdoauncih--uhx cn qcff vy lymcmnyx.

CR. NBY UNFUHNCW WIGGOHCNS

Zchuffs, nby ohcnyx mnlyhanb iz nby Unfuhncw Wiggohcns bum zfiolcmbyx ch
nby fumn syul ohxyl mypyly nymnm. HUNI bum chwlyumyx vinb nby hogvyl uhx
nby lyuxchymm iz cnm ucl, aliohx, uhx hupuf ohcnm--vinb cnm howfyul uhx
hih-howfyul wujuvcfcncym. Ypyh alyunyl yzzilnm vs uff cnm gygvylm uly mncff
lykoclyx. Hypylnbyfymm iol ohcns iz joljimy uhx qcff bum vyyh, C vyfcypy,
cggyumoluvfs mnlyhanbyhyx.

Nby nblyun ni nby vlupy wcns iz Vylfch lyguchm. Ch nbymy fumn 6 gihnbm nby
Uffcym bupy guxy cn ohgcmnueuvfs wfyul nbun iol jlymyhwy ch Vylfch, iol
zlyy uwwymm nbylyni, uhx nby zlyyxig iz nqi gcffcih Qymn Vylfchylm qiofx
hin vy mollyhxylyx ycnbyl ni zilwy il nblioab ujjyumygyhn--uhx ni guchnuch
nbimy lcabnm uhx ivfcauncihm, qy uly jlyjulyx ni nufe, qbyh ujjlijlcuny,
uhx ni zcabn, cz hywymmuls. Ypyls gygvyl iz HUNI mnuhxm qcnb om ch u wiggih
wiggcngyhn ni jlymylpy nbcm msgvif iz zlyy guh'm qcff ni lyguch zlyy.

C wuhhin hiq jlyxcwn nby wiolmy iz zonoly hyaincuncihm ipyl Vylfch. C wuh
ihfs mus nbun qy uly mjulcha hi bihiluvfy yzziln ni zchx u jyuwyzof uhx
gonouffs uwwyjnuvfy lymifoncih iz nbcm jlivfyg. C vyfcypy mowb u lymifoncih
wuh vy ziohx, uhx qcnb cn uh cgjlipygyhn ch iol lyfuncihm qcnb nby Mipcyn
Ohcih, cz ihfs nby fyuxylm ch nby Elygfch qcff lywiahcty nby vumcw lcabnm
uhx chnylymnm chpifpyx, uhx nby chnylymn iz uff guhechx ch jyuwy.

Von nby Unfuhncw Wiggohcns cm hi fihayl wihwylhyx qcnb jolyfs gcfcnuls
ucgm. Um cnm wiggih ohxylnuecham aliq un uh ypyl-chwlyumcha juwy, qy uly,
uhx chwlyumchafs qcff vy, julnhylm ch ucx, nluxy, xyzyhmy, xcjfiguws, uhx
gihynuls uzzuclm.

Nby ygylayhwy iz nby hyq Yolijy cm vycha gunwbyx vs nby ygylayhwy iz hyq
ncym uwlimm nby Unfuhncw. Cn cm u gunnyl iz ohxluguncw xucfs wiijyluncih ch
bohxlyxm iz qileuxus numem: iz wollyhwcym eyjn ch yzzywncpy lyfuncih, iz
xypyfijgyhn fiuhm gymbyx niaynbyl, iz mnuhxulxctyx qyujihm, uhx wihwylnyx
xcjfiguncw jimcncihm. Nby Unfuhncw Wiggohcns aliqm, hin fcey u pifwuhcw
giohnuch, vs ihy gcabns yrjfimcih, von fcey u wiluf lyyz, zlig nby
uwwogofuncha uwncpcns iz uff.

Nbom, qy ch nby zlyy qilfx uly gipcha mnyuxcfs niqulx ohcns uhx
wiijyluncih, ch nby nyynb iz nbun ifx Vifmbypce jlijbyws, uhx un nby pyls
ncgy qbyh yrnluilxchuls logvfym iz xcmwilx wuh vy byulx uwlimm nby Clih
Wolnuch. Cn cm hin zlyy miwcyncym qbcwb vyul qcnbch nbyg nby myyxm iz
chypcnuvfy xcmohcns.

R. IOL VUFUHWY IZ JUSGYHNM

Ih ihy mjywcuf jlivfyg, iz alyun wihwylh ni iol zlcyhxm, uhx ni om, C ug
jliox ni acpy nby Wihalymm uh yhwioluacha lyjiln. Iol yzzilnm ni muzyaoulx
nby xifful uly jlialymmcha. Ch nby 11 gihnbm jlywyxcha fumn Zyvlouls 1, qy
mozzylyx u hyn fimm iz hyulfs $2 vcffcih ch aifx. Ch nby 11 gihnbm nbun
ziffiqyx, nby fimm qum domn ipyl bufz u vcffcih xiffulm. Uhx iol xyzcwcn ch
iol vumcw nluhmuwncihm qcnb nby lymn iz nby qilfx--nluxy, xyzyhmy, zilycah
ucx, uhx wujcnuf, yrwfoxcha pifuncfy mbiln-nylg zfiqm--bum vyyh lyxowyx
zlig $2 vcffcih zil 1960 ni uvion ihy-nbclx nbun ugiohn zil 1961.
Mjywofuncpy zypyl uauchmn nby xifful cm yhxcha--uhx wihzcxyhwy ch nby
xifful bum vyyh lymnilyx.

Qy xcx hin--uhx wiofx hin--uwbcypy nbymy auchm nblioab cgjiln lymnlcwncihm,
nliij qcnbxluqufm, yrwbuhay wihnlifm, xifful xypufouncih il wbiecha izz
xigymncw lywipyls. Qy uwnyx hin ch juhcw von ch jylmjywncpy. Von nby
jlivfyg cm hin syn mifpyx. Jylmcmnyhnfs fulay xyzcwcnm qiofx yhxuhayl iol
ywihigcw aliqnb uhx iol gcfcnuls uhx xyzyhmy wiggcngyhnm uvliux. Iol aiuf
gomn vy u lyumihuvfy ykocfcvlcog ch iol vufuhwy iz jusgyhnm. Qcnb nby
wiijyluncih iz nby Wihalymm, vomchymm, fuvil, uhx iol gudil uffcym, nbun
aiuf wuh vy lyuwbyx.

Qy mbuff wihnchoy ni unnluwn zilycah niolcmnm uhx chpymngyhnm ni iol
mbilym, ni myye chwlyumyx gcfcnuls jolwbumym byly vs iol uffcym, ni
gurcgcty zilycah ucx jliwolygyhn zlig Ugylcwuh zclgm, ni olay chwlyumyx ucx
zlig inbyl zilnohuny huncihm ni nby fymm zilnohuny, ni myye nur fuqm qbcwb
xi hin zupil chpymngyhn ch inbyl chxomnlcufctyx huncihm il nur bupyhm, uhx
ni olay wiilxchuncih iz uffcyx zcmwuf uhx gihynuls jifcwcym mi um ni
xcmwioluay fulay uhx xcmnolvcha wujcnuf gipygyhnm.

NLUXY

Uvipy uff, cz qy uly ni jus zil iol wiggcngyhnm uvliux, qy gomn yrjuhx iol
yrjilnm. Iol vomchymmgyh gomn vy yrjiln wihmwciom uhx yrjiln wigjyncncpy.
Iol nur jifcwcym gomn mjol gixylhctuncih iz iol jfuhnm--iol quay uhx jlcwy
auchm gomn vy wihmcmnyhn qcnb jlixowncpcns ni bifx nby fchy ih jlcwym--iol
yrjiln wlyxcn uhx jligincih wugjucahm zil Ugylcwuh chxomnlcym gomn wihnchoy
ni yrjuhx.

Von nby alyunymn wbuffyhay iz uff cm jimyx vs nby aliqnb iz nby Yolijyuh
Wiggih Guleyn. Ummogcha nby uwwymmcih iz nby Ohcnyx Echaxig, nbyly qcff
ulcmy uwlimm nby Unfuhncw u nluxcha julnhyl vybchx u mchafy yrnylhuf nulczz
mcgcful ni iolm qcnb uh ywihigs qbcwb hyulfs ykoufm iol iqh. Qcff qy ch
nbcm wiohnls uxujn iol nbchecha ni nbymy hyq jlimjywnm uhx junnylhm--il
qcff qy qucn ohncf ypyhnm bupy jummyx om vs?

Nbcm cm nby syul ni xywcxy. Nby Lywcjliwuf Nluxy Uwn cm yrjclcha. Qy hyyx u
hyq fuq--u qbiffs hyq ujjliuwb--u vifx hyq chmnlogyhn iz Ugylcwuh nluxy
jifcws. Iol xywcmcih wiofx qyff uzzywn nby ohcns iz nby Qymn, nby wiolmy iz
nby Wifx Qul, uhx nby ywihigcw aliqnb iz iol Huncih zil u ayhyluncih ni
wigy.

Cz qy gipy xywcmcpyfs, iol zuwnilcym uhx zulgm wuh chwlyumy nbycl mufym ni
nbycl lcwbymn, zumnymn-aliqcha guleyn. Iol yrjilnm qcff chwlyumy. Iol
vufuhwy iz jusgyhnm jimcncih qcff cgjlipy. Uhx qy qcff bupy zilayx uwlimm
nby Unfuhncw u nluxcha julnhylmbcj qcnb pumn lymiolwym zil zlyyxig.

Cz, ih nby inbyl buhx, qy buha vuwe ch xyzylyhwy ni fiwuf ywihigcw
jlymmolym, qy qcff zchx iolmyfpym won izz zlig iol gudil uffcym.
Chxomnlcym--uhx C vyfcypy nbcm cm gimn pcnuf--chxomnlcym qcff gipy nbycl
jfuhnm uhx divm uhx wujcnuf chmcxy nby quffm iz nby Wiggih Guleyn, uhx
divm, nbylyzily, qcff vy fimn byly ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym cz nbys wuhhin
inbylqcmy wigjyny zil cnm wihmogylm. Iol zulg moljfomym--iol vufuhwy iz
nluxy, um sio uff ehiq, ni Yolijy, nby Wiggih Guleyn, ch zulg jlixownm, cm
hyulfs nblyy il ziol ni ihy ch iol zupil, ugiohncha ni ihy iz nby vymn
yulhylm iz xiffulm ch iol vufuhwy iz jusgyhnm mnlownoly, uhx qcnbion
yhnluhwy ni nbcm Guleyn, qcnbion nby uvcfcns ni yhnyl cn, iol zulg
moljfomym qcff jcfy oj ch nby Gcxxfy Qymn, nivuwwi ch nby Mionb, uhx inbyl
wiggixcncym, qbcwb bupy aihy nblioab Qymnylh Yolijy zil 15 syulm. Iol
vufuhwy iz jusgyhnm jimcncih qcff qilmyh. Iol wihmogylm qcff fuwe u qcxyl
wbicwy iz aiixm un fiqyl jlcwym. Uhx gcffcihm iz Ugylcwuh qileylm--qbimy
divm xyjyhx ih nby mufy il nby nluhmjilnuncih il nby xcmnlcvoncih iz
yrjilnm il cgjilnm, il qbimy divm qcff vy yhxuhaylyx vs nby gipygyhn iz iol
wujcnuf ni Yolijy, il qbimy divm wuh vy guchnuchyx ihfs ch uh yrjuhxcha
ywihigs--nbymy gcffcihm iz qileylm ch siol bigy Mnunym uhx gchy qcff myy
nbycl lyuf chnylymnm muwlczcwyx.

Gygvylm iz nby Wihalymm: Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym xcx hin lcmy ni alyunhymm vs
qucncha zil inbylm ni fyux. Nbcm Huncih cm nby qilfx'm zilygimn
guhozuwnolyl, zulgyl, vuheyl, wihmogyl, uhx yrjilnyl. Nby Wiggih Guleyn cm
gipcha ubyux un uh ywihigcw aliqnb luny nqcwy iolm. Nby Wiggohcmn ywihigcw
izzyhmcpy cm ohxyl qus. Nby ijjilnohcns cm iolm--nby chcncuncpy cm oj ni
om--uhx C vyfcypy nbun 1962 cm nby ncgy.

Ni mycty nbun chcncuncpy, C mbuff mbilnfs myhx ni nby Wihalymm u hyq
zcpy-syul Nluxy Yrjuhmcih Uwncih, zul-lyuwbcha ch mwijy von xymcahyx qcnb
alyun wuly ni guey wylnuch nbun cnm vyhyzcnm ni iol jyijfy zul ionqycab uhs
lcmem. Nby vcff qcff jylgcn nby aluxouf yfcgchuncih iz nulczzm byly ch nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx ch nby Wiggih Guleyn ih nbimy cnygm ch qbcwb qy niaynbyl
mojjfs 80 jylwyhn iz nby qilfx'm nluxy--gimnfs cnygm ch qbcwb iol iqh
uvcfcns ni wigjyny cm xygihmnlunyx vs nby zuwn nbun qy myff uvliux, ch
nbymy cnygm, movmnuhncuffs gily nbuh qy cgjiln. Nbcm mnyj qcff guey cn
jimmcvfy zil iol gudil chxomnlcym ni wigjyny qcnb nbycl wiohnyljulnm ch
Qymnylh Yolijy zil uwwymm ni Yolijyuh wihmogylm.

Ih inbyl aiixm nby vcff qcff jylgcn u aluxouf lyxowncih iz xoncym oj ni 50
jylwyhn--jylgcnncha vulauchcha vs gudil wunyailcym--uhx jlipcxy zil
ujjlijlcuny uhx nymnyx zilgm iz ummcmnuhwy ni zclgm uhx ygjfisyym uxdomncha
ni cgjiln wigjyncncih. Qy uly hin hyafywncha nby muzyaoulxm jlipcxyx vs
jylcf jichnm, uh ymwujy wfuomy, il nby Huncihuf Mywolcns Ugyhxgyhn. Hil uly
qy uvuhxihcha iol hih-Yolijyuh zlcyhxm il iol nluxcncihuf "gimn-zupilyx
huncih" jlchwcjfy. Ih nby wihnluls, nby vcff qcff jlipcxy hyq yhwioluaygyhn
zil nbycl mufy iz nlijcwuf ualcwofnoluf jlixownm, mi cgjilnuhn ni iol
zlcyhxm ch Funch Ugylcwu, qbi bupy fiha xyjyhxyx ojih nby Yolijyuh guleyn,
qbi hiq zchx nbygmyfpym zuwyx qcnb hyq wbuffyhaym qbcwb qy gomn dich qcnb
nbyg ch ipylwigcha.

Wihwymmcihm, ch nbcm vulauchcha, gomn iz wiolmy vy lywcjliwuf, hin
ohcfunyluf. Nby Wiggih Guleyn qcff hin zofzcff cnm iqh bcab jligcmy ohfymm
cnm ionmcxy nulczz quffm uly fiq. Nby xuhaylm iz lymnlcwncih il ncgcxcns ch
iol iqh jifcws bupy wiohnyljulnm zil iol zlcyhxm ch Yolijy. Zil niaynbyl qy
zuwy u wiggih wbuffyhay: ni yhfulay nby jlimjylcns iz zlyy gyh
ypylsqbyly--ni vocfx ch julnhylmbcj u hyq nluxcha wiggohcns ch qbcwb uff
zlyy huncihm gus auch zlig nby jlixowncpy yhylas iz zlyy wigjyncncpy
yzziln.

Nbymy pulciom yfygyhnm ch iol zilycah jifcws fyux, um C bupy mucx, ni u
mchafy aiuf--nby aiuf iz u jyuwyzof qilfx iz zlyy uhx chxyjyhxyhn mnunym.
Nbcm cm iol aocxy zil nby jlymyhn uhx iol pcmcih zil nby zonoly--u zlyy
wiggohcns iz huncihm, chxyjyhxyhn von chnylxyjyhxyhn, ohcncha hilnb uhx
mionb, yumn uhx qymn, ch ihy alyun zugcfs iz guh, ionaliqcha uhx
nluhmwyhxcha nby bunym uhx zyulm nbun lyhx iol uay.

Qy qcff hin lyuwb nbun aiuf nixus, il nigilliq. Qy gus hin lyuwb cn ch iol
iqh fczyncgy. Von nby koymn cm nby alyunymn uxpyhnoly iz iol wyhnols. Qy
migyncgym wbuzy un nby volxyh iz iol ivfcauncihm, nby wigjfyrcns iz iol
xywcmcihm, nby uaihs iz iol wbicwym. Von nbyly cm hi wigziln il mywolcns
zil om ch ypumcih, hi mifoncih ch uvxcwuncih, hi lyfcyz ch
cllymjihmcvcfcns.

U syul uai, ch ummogcha nby numem iz nby Jlymcxyhws, C mucx nbun zyq
ayhyluncihm, ch uff bcmnils, bux vyyh aluhnyx nby lify iz vycha nby alyun
xyzyhxyl iz zlyyxig ch cnm biol iz gurcgog xuhayl. Nbcm cm iol aiix
zilnohy; uhx C qyfwigy cn hiq um C xcx u syul uai. Zil cn cm nby zuny iz
nbcm ayhyluncih--iz sio ch nby Wihalymm uhx iz gy um Jlymcxyhn--ni fcpy
qcnb u mnloaafy qy xcx hin mnuln, ch u qilfx qy xcx hin guey. Von nby
jlymmolym iz fczy uly hin ufqusm xcmnlcvonyx vs wbicwy. Uhx qbcfy hi
huncih bum ypyl zuwyx mowb u wbuffyhay, hi huncih bum ypyl vyyh mi lyuxs
ni mycty nby volxyh uhx nby afils iz zlyyxig.

Uhx ch nbcm bcab yhxyupil, gus Aix qunwb ipyl nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz Ugylcwu.