Azggjr-Xdoduzin ja ocz Nzivoz viy Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Vbvdi ocz wgznndibn ja czvgoc viy vwpiyvio cvmqznon xgvdh jpm
kmjajpiyzno bmvodopyz oj Vghdbcot Bjy.

Ocz xjiydodji ja jpm ajmzdbi vaavdmn dn mzvnjivwgt nvodnavxojmt.

Hzsdxj xjiodipzn oj wz v oczvozm ja xdqdg rvm. Rcdgz jpm kjgdodxvg
mzgvodjin rdoc ocvo xjpiomt cvqz piyzmbjiz ij xcvibz, rz cvqz vo ocz
nvhz odhz nomdxogt hvdiovdizy izpomvgdot wzorzzi ocz wzggdbzmzion.

Vo ocz mzlpzno ja ocz Novozn ja Xjnov Mdxv viy Idxvmvbpv, v xjhkzozio
zibdizzm cvn wzzi vpocjmduzy oj hvfz v npmqzt ja ocz mdqzm Nvi Epvi viy
ocz kjmo ja Nvi Epvi. Do dn v njpmxz ja hpxc nvodnavxodji ocvo ocz
ydaadxpgodzn rcdxc ajm v hjhzio zsxdozy njhz kjgdodxvg vkkmzczindjin
viy xvpnzy v xgjndib ja ocz diozmjxzvidx omvindo mjpoz cvqz wzzi
vhdxvwgt vyepnozy, viy ocvo oczmz dn v bjjy kmjnkzxo ocvo ocz mjpoz
rdgg njji wz mzjkzizy rdoc vi dixmzvnz ja xvkvxdot viy vyvkovodji. Rz
xjpgy ijo zsvbbzmvoz zdoczm ocz xjhhzmxdvg jm ocz kjgdodxvg dhkjmovixz
ja ocvo bmzvo dhkmjqzhzio.

Do rjpgy wz yjdib diepnodxz oj vi dhkjmovio Njpoc Vhzmdxvi Novoz ijo oj
vxfijrgzybz ocz ydmzxoiznn, amvifiznn, viy xjmydvgdot rdoc rcdxc ocz
Pidozy Novozn ja Xjgjhwdv cvqz ziozmzy dioj diodhvoz mzgvodjin rdoc
ocdn Bjqzmihzio. V xgvdhn xjiqziodji cvn wzzi xjinodopozy oj xjhkgzoz
ocz piadidnczy rjmf ja ocz jiz rcdxc xgjnzy don nznndji di 1861.

Ocz izr gdwzmvg xjinodopodji ja Qzizupzgv cvqdib bjiz dioj zaazxo rdoc
ocz pidqzmnvg vxlpdznxzixz ja ocz kzjkgz, ocz Bjqzmihzio piyzm do cvn
wzzi mzxjbiduzy viy ydkgjhvodx diozmxjpmnz rdoc do cvn jkzizy di v
xjmydvg viy amdziygt nkdmdo. Ocz gjib-yzazmmzy Vqzn Dngviy xgvdh cvn
wzzi nvodnavxojmdgt kvdy viy ydnxcvmbzy.

Hpopvg kvthzion cvqz wzzi hvyz ja ocz xgvdhn vrvmyzy wt ocz gvoz ejdio
xjhhdnndji ajm ocz nzoogzhzio ja xgvdhn wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
Kzmp. Vi zvmizno viy xjmydvg amdziyncdk xjiodipzn oj zsdno wzorzzi ocz
orj xjpiomdzn, viy npxc zaajmon vn rzmz di ht kjrzm cvqz wzzi pnzy oj
mzhjqz hdnpiyzmnoviydib viy vqzmo v ocmzvozizy rvm wzorzzi Kzmp viy
Nkvdi.

Jpm mzgvodjin vmz ja ocz hjno amdziygt ivopmz rdoc Xcdgz, ocz Vmbziodiz
Mzkpwgdx, Wjgdqdv, Xjnov Mdxv, Kvmvbpvt, Nvi Nvgqvyjm, viy Cvtod.
Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm ij ydaazmzixzn ja vit fdiy cvqz vmdnzi rdoc vit ja
ocjnz Mzkpwgdxn, viy, ji ocz joczm cviy, oczdm nthkvocdzn rdoc ocz
Pidozy Novozn vmz xjinoviogt zskmznnzy rdoc xjmydvgdot viy zvmiznoiznn.

Ocz xgvdh vmdndib amjh ocz nzdupmz ja ocz xvmbj ja ocz wmdb Hvxzyjidvi
di 1821 cvn wzzi kvdy di apgg wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Xcdgz. Xdqdg rvm
xjiodipzn di ocz Nkvidnc kvmo ja Nvi Yjhdibj, vkkvmziogt rdocjpo
kmjnkzxo ja vi zvmgt xgjnz.

Jaadxdvg xjmmznkjiyzixz cvn wzzi amzzgt jkzizy rdoc Gdwzmdv, viy do
bdqzn pn v kgzvndib qdzr ja njxdvg viy kjgdodxvg kmjbmznn di ocvo
Mzkpwgdx. Do hvt wz zskzxozy oj yzmdqz izr qdbjm amjh Vhzmdxvi
diagpzixz, dhkmjqzy wt ocz mvkdy ydnvkkzvmvixz ja ngvqzmt di ocz Pidozy
Novozn.

D njgdxdo tjpm vpocjmdot oj apmidnc oj ocz Mzkpwgdx v bpiwjvo vo
hjyzmvoz xjno, oj wz mzdhwpmnzy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn wt dinovgghzion.
Npxc v qznnzg dn izzyzy ajm ocz nvazot ja ocvo Novoz vbvdino ocz ivodqz
Vamdxvi mvxzn, viy di Gdwzmdvi cviyn do rjpgy wz hjmz zaazxodqz di
vmmznodib ocz Vamdxvi ngvqz omvyz ocvi v nlpvymji di jpm jri cviyn. Ocz
kjnnznndji ja ocz gzvno jmbviduzy ivqvg ajmxz rjpgy nodhpgvoz v
bzizmjpn vhwdodji di ocz Mzkpwgdx, viy ocz xjiadyzixz rcdxc rz ncjpgy
hvidazno wt apmidncdib do rjpgy rdi ajmwzvmvixz viy avqjm ojrvmy ocz
xjgjit amjh vgg xdqdgduzy ivodjin.

Ocz kmjkjnzy jqzmgviy ozgzbmvkc wzorzzi Vhzmdxv viy Zpmjkz, wt ocz rvt
ja Wzcmdibn Nomvdon viy Vndvodx Mpnndv, rcdxc rvn nvixodjizy wt
Xjibmznn vo ocz gvno nznndji, cvn wzzi piyzmovfzi, piyzm qzmt avqjmvwgz
xdmxphnovixzn, wt vi vnnjxdvodji ja Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin, rdoc ocz xjmydvg
bjjy rdgg viy npkkjmo vn rzgg ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio vn ja ocjnz ja Bmzvo
Wmdovdi viy Mpnndv. Vnnpmvixzn cvqz wzzi mzxzdqzy amjh hjno ja ocz
Njpoc Vhzmdxvi Novozn ja oczdm cdbc vkkmzxdvodji ja ocz ziozmkmdnz viy
oczdm mzvydiznn oj xjjkzmvoz di xjinompxodib gdizn omdwpovmt oj ocvo
rjmgy-zixdmxgdib xjhhpidxvodji. D gzvmi rdoc hpxc nvodnavxodji ocvo ocz
ijwgz yzndbi ja v ozgzbmvkcdx xjhhpidxvodji wzorzzi ocz zvnozmi xjvno
ja Vhzmdxv viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi cvn wzzi mzizrzy, rdoc apgg zskzxovodji ja
don zvmgt vxxjhkgdnchzio.

Ocpn do dn cjkzy ocvo rdoc ocz mzopmi ja yjhznodx kzvxz ocz xjpiomt
rdgg wz vwgz oj mznphz rdoc zizmbt viy vyqviovbz don ajmhzm cdbc xvmzzm
ja xjhhzmxz viy xdqdgduvodji.

Jpm qzmt kjkpgvm viy znodhvwgz mzkmznziovodqz di Zbtko ydzy di Vkmdg
gvno. Vi pikgzvnvio vgozmxvodji rcdxc vmjnz wzorzzi ocz ozhkjmvmt
dixphwzio ja ocz jaadxz viy ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Kvncv mznpgozy di v
npnkzindji ja diozmxjpmnz. Ocz zqdg rvn kmjhkogt xjmmzxozy ji ocz
vmmdqvg ja ocz npxxznnjm di ocz xjinpgvoz, viy jpm mzgvodjin rdoc
Zbtko, vn rzgg vn jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Wvmwvmt Kjrzmn, vmz ziodmzgt
nvodnavxojmt.

Ocz mzwzggdji rcdxc cvn nj gjib wzzi agvbmvio di Xcdiv cvn vo gvno wzzi
npkkmznnzy, rdoc ocz xjjkzmvodib bjjy jaadxzn ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio viy ja
ocz joczm Rznozmi xjhhzmxdvg Novozn. Ocz epydxdvg xjinpgvm
znovwgdnchzio oczmz cvn wzxjhz qzmt ydaadxpgo viy jizmjpn, viy do rdgg
izzy gzbdngvodqz mzqdndji oj vyvko do oj ocz zsozindji ja jpm xjhhzmxz
viy oj ocz hjmz diodhvoz diozmxjpmnz rcdxc cvn wzzi dinodopozy rdoc ocz
Bjqzmihzio viy kzjkgz ja ocvo qvno Zhkdmz. Xcdiv nzzhn oj wz vxxzkodib
rdoc czvmot bjjy rdgg ocz xjiqziodjivg gvrn rcdxc mzbpgvoz xjhhzmxdvg
viy njxdvg diozmxjpmnz vhjib ocz Rznozmi ivodjin.

Jrdib oj ocz kzxpgdvm ndopvodji ja Evkvi viy ocz vijhvgjpn ajmh ja don
Bjqzmihzio, ocz vxodji ja ocvo Zhkdmz di kzmajmhdib omzvot nodkpgvodjin
dn dixjinovio viy xvkmdxdjpn. Izqzmoczgznn, bjjy kmjbmznn cvn wzzi
zaazxozy wt ocz Rznozmi kjrzmn, hjqdib rdoc zigdbcozizy xjixzmo. Jpm
jri kzxpidvmt xgvdhn cvqz wzzi vggjrzy jm kpo di xjpmnz ja nzoogzhzio,
viy ocz digviy nzv cvn wzzi mzjkzizy oj xjhhzmxz. Oczmz dn mzvnji vgnj
oj wzgdzqz ocvo ocznz kmjxzzydibn cvqz dixmzvnzy mvoczm ocvi ydhdidnczy
ocz amdziyncdk ja Evkvi ojrvmy ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ocz kjmon ja Ijmajgf, Azmiviydiv, viy Kzinvxjgv cvqz wzzi jkzizy wt
kmjxgvhvodji. Do dn cjkzy ocvo ajmzdbi hzmxcvion rdgg ijr xjindyzm
rczoczm do dn ijo nvazm viy hjmz kmjadovwgz oj oczhnzgqzn, vn rzgg vn
epno oj ocz Pidozy Novozn, oj mznjmo oj ocznz viy joczm jkzi kjmon ocvi
do dn oj kpmnpz, ocmjpbc hvit cvuvmyn viy vo qvno xjno, v xjiomvwviy
omvyz rdoc joczm kjmon rcdxc vmz xgjnzy, da ijo wt vxopvg hdgdovmt
jxxpkvodji, vo gzvno wt v gvrapg viy zaazxodqz wgjxfvyz.

Ajm htnzga, D cvqz ij yjpwo ja ocz kjrzm viy ypot ja ocz Zszxpodqz,
piyzm ocz gvr ja ivodjin, oj zsxgpyz zizhdzn ja ocz cphvi mvxz amjh vi
vntgph di ocz Pidozy Novozn. Da Xjibmznn ncjpgy ocdif ocvo kmjxzzydibn
di npxc xvnzn gvxf ocz vpocjmdot ja gvr, jm jpbco oj wz apmoczm
mzbpgvozy wt do, D mzxjhhziy ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz ajm zaazxopvggt
kmzqziodib ajmzdbi ngvqz omvyzmn amjh vxlpdmdib yjhdxdgz viy avxdgdodzn
ajm oczdm xmdhdivg jxxpkvodji di jpm xjpiomt.

Do dn kjnndwgz ocvo da do rzmz izr viy jkzi lpznodji ocz hvmdodhz
kjrzmn, rdoc ocz gdbcon oczt ijr ziejt, rjpgy ijo xjixzyz ocz
kmdqdgzbzn ja v ivqvg wzggdbzmzio oj ocz dinpmbzion ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, yznodopoz, vn oczt vmz, viy vgrvtn cvqz wzzi, zlpvggt ja ncdkn
ja rvm viy ja kjmon viy cvmwjmn. Ydngjtvg zhdnnvmdzn cvqz wzzi izdoczm
gznn vnndypjpn ijm hjmz npxxznnapg ypmdib ocz gvno tzvm ocvi oczt rzmz
wzajmz ocvo odhz di oczdm zaajmon piyzm avqjm ja ocvo kmdqdgzbz, oj
zhwmjdg jpm xjpiomt di ajmzdbi rvmn. Ocz yzndmz viy yzozmhdivodji ja
ocz bjqzmihzion ja ocz hvmdodhz novozn oj yzazvo ocvo yzndbi vmz
wzgdzqzy oj wz vn ndixzmz vn viy xvi ijo wz hjmz zvmizno ocvi jpm jri.
Izqzmoczgznn, piajmznzzi kjgdodxvg ydaadxpgodzn cvqz vmdnzi, znkzxdvggt
di Wmvudgdvi viy Wmdodnc kjmon viy ji ocz ijmoczmi wjpiyvmt ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn, rcdxc cvqz mzlpdmzy, viy vmz gdfzgt oj xjiodipz oj
mzlpdmz, ocz kmvxodxz ja xjinovio qdbdgvixz viy v epno viy xjixdgdvojmt
nkdmdo ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, vn rzgg vn ja ocz ivodjin
xjixzmizy viy oczdm bjqzmihzion.

Xjhhdnndjizmn cvqz wzzi vkkjdiozy piyzm ocz omzvot rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi
ji ocz vyepnohzio ja ocz xgvdhn ja ocz Cpynjin Wvt viy Kpbzon Njpiy
Vbmdxpgopmvg Xjhkvidzn, di Jmzbji, viy vmz ijr kmjxzzydib oj ocz
zszxpodji ja ocz ompno vnndbizy oj oczh.

Di qdzr ja ocz dinzxpmdot ja gdaz viy kmjkzmot di ocz mzbdji vyevxzio
oj ocz Xvivydvi wjmyzm, wt mzvnji ja mzxzio vnnvpgon viy yzkmzyvodjin
xjhhdoozy wt didhdxvg viy yznkzmvoz kzmnjin rcj vmz cvmwjmzy oczmz, do
cvn wzzi ocjpbco kmjkzm oj bdqz ijodxz ocvo vaozm ocz zskdmvodji ja nds
hjiocn, ocz kzmdjy xjiydodjivggt nodkpgvozy di ocz zsdnodib vmmvibzhzio
rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi, ocz Pidozy Novozn hpno cjgy oczhnzgqzn vo gdwzmot
oj dixmzvnz oczdm ivqvg vmhvhzio pkji ocz Gvfzn da oczt ncvgg adiy ocvo
kmjxzzydib izxznnvmt. Ocz xjiydodji ja ocz wjmyzm rdgg izxznnvmdgt xjhz
dioj xjindyzmvodji di xjiizxodji rdoc ocz lpznodji ja xjiodipdib jm
hjydatdib ocz mdbcon ja omvindo amjh Xvivyv ocmjpbc ocz Pidozy Novozn,
vn rzgg vn ocz mzbpgvodji ja dhkjnon, rcdxc rzmz ozhkjmvmdgt
znovwgdnczy wt ocz mzxdkmjxdot omzvot ja ocz 5oc Epiz, 1854.

D yzndmz, cjrzqzm, oj wz piyzmnojjy rcdgz hvfdib ocdn novozhzio ocvo
ocz xjgjidvg vpocjmdodzn ja Xvivyv vmz ijo yzzhzy oj wz dioziodjivggt
piepno jm piamdziygt ojrvmy ocz Pidozy Novozn, wpo, ji ocz xjiomvmt,
oczmz dn zqzmt mzvnji oj zskzxo ocvo, rdoc ocz vkkmjqvg ja ocz Dhkzmdvg
Bjqzmihzio, oczt rdgg ovfz ocz izxznnvmt hzvnpmzn oj kmzqzio izr
dixpmndjin vxmjnn ocz wjmyzm.

Ocz vxo kvnnzy vo ocz gvno nznndji ajm ocz zixjpmvbzhzio ja dhhdbmvodji
cvn nj avm vn rvn kjnndwgz wzzi kpo dioj jkzmvodji. Do nzzhn oj izzy
vhziyhzio rcdxc rdgg zivwgz ocz jaadxzmn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio oj kmzqzio
ocz kmvxodxz ja amvpyn vbvdino ocz dhhdbmvion rcdgz ji oczdm rvt viy ji
oczdm vmmdqvg di ocz kjmon, nj vn oj nzxpmz oczh czmz v amzz xcjdxz ja
vqjxvodjin viy kgvxzn ja nzoogzhzio. V gdwzmvg ydnkjndodji ojrvmy ocdn
bmzvo ivodjivg kjgdxt dn hvidaznozy wt hjno ja ocz Zpmjkzvi Novozn, viy
jpbco oj wz mzxdkmjxvozy ji jpm kvmo wt bdqdib ocz dhhdbmvion zaazxodqz
ivodjivg kmjozxodji. D mzbvmy jpm dhhdbmvion vn jiz ja ocz kmdixdkvg
mzkgzidncdib nomzvhn rcdxc vmz vkkjdiozy wt Kmjqdyzixz oj mzkvdm ocz
mvqvbzn ja diozmivg rvm viy don rvnozn ja ivodjivg nomziboc viy czvgoc.
Vgg ocvo dn izxznnvmt dn oj nzxpmz ocz agjr ja ocvo nomzvh di don
kmznzio apggiznn, viy oj ocvo ziy ocz Bjqzmihzio hpno di zqzmt rvt hvfz
do hvidazno ocvo do izdoczm izzyn ijm yzndbin oj dhkjnz diqjgpiovmt
hdgdovmt nzmqdxz pkji ocjnz rcj xjhz amjh joczm gviyn oj xvno oczdm gjo
di jpm xjpiomt.

Ocz adivixdvg vaavdmn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio cvqz wzzi npxxznnapggt
vyhdidnozmzy ypmdib ocz gvno tzvm. Ocz gzbdngvodji ja ocz gvno nznndji
ja Xjibmznn cvn wzizadxdvggt vaazxozy ocz mzqzipzn, vgocjpbc npaadxdzio
odhz cvn ijo tzo zgvknzy oj zskzmdzixz ocz apgg zaazxo ja nzqzmvg ja
ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz vxon ja Xjibmznn dhkjndib dixmzvnzy ovsvodji.

Ocz mzxzdkon ypmdib ocz tzvm amjh vgg njpmxzn, pkji ocz wvndn ja
rvmmvion ndbizy wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt, dixgpydib gjvin viy
ocz wvgvixz di ocz Omzvnpmt ji ocz 1no yvt ja Epgt, 1863, rzmz
$1,394,796,007.62, viy ocz vbbmzbvoz ydnwpmnzhzion, pkji ocz nvhz
wvndn, rzmz $1,298,056,101.89, gzvqdib v wvgvixz di ocz Omzvnpmt, vn
ncjri wt rvmmvion, ja $96,739,905.73.

Yzypxo amjh ocznz vhjpion ocz vhjpio ja ocz kmdixdkvg ja ocz kpwgdx
yzwo mzyzzhzy viy ocz vhjpio ja dnnpzn di npwnodopodji oczmzajm, viy
ocz vxopvg xvnc jkzmvodjin ja ocz Omzvnpmt rzmz: Mzxzdkon,
$884,076,646.57; ydnwpmnzhzion, $865,234,087.86; rcdxc gzvqzn v xvnc
wvgvixz di ocz Omzvnpmt ja $18,842,558.71.

Ja ocz mzxzdkon oczmz rzmz yzmdqzy amjh xpnojhn $102,316,152.99, amjh
gviyn $588,333.29. amjh ydmzxo ovszn $475,648.96, amjh diozmivg mzqzipz
$109,741,134.10, amjh hdnxzggvizjpn njpmxzn $47,511,448.10, viy amjh
gjvin vkkgdzy oj vxopvg zskziydopmzn, dixgpydib ajmhzm wvgvixz,
$623,443,929.13.

Oczmz rzmz ydnwpmnzy ajm ocz xdqdg nzmqdxz $27,505,599.46, ajm kzindjin
viy Diydvin $7,517,930.97, ajm ocz Rvm Yzkvmohzio $690,791,842.97, ajm
ocz Ivqt Yzkvmohzio $85,733,292.77, ajm diozmzno ji ocz kpwgdx yzwo
$53,685,421.69, hvfdib vi vbbmzbvoz ja $865,234,087.86 viy gzvqdib v
wvgvixz di ocz Omzvnpmt ja $18,842,558.71, vn wzajmz novozy.

Ajm ocz vxopvg mzxzdkon viy ydnwpmnzhzion ajm ocz admno lpvmozm viy ocz
znodhvozy mzxzdkon viy ydnwpmnzhzion ajm ocz ocmzz mzhvdidib lpvmozmn
ja ocz xpmmzio adnxvg tzvm, viy ocz bzizmvg jkzmvodjin ja ocz Omzvnpmt
di yzovdg, D mzazm tjp oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt.
D xjixpm rdoc cdh di ocz jkdidji ocvo ocz kmjkjmodji ja hjiztn mzlpdmzy
oj hzzo ocz zskzinzn xjinzlpzio pkji ocz rvm yzmdqzy amjh ovsvodji
ncjpgy wz nodgg apmoczm dixmzvnzy; viy D zvmiznogt diqdoz tjpm
vooziodji oj ocdn npwezxo, oj ocz ziy ocvo oczmz hvt wz npxc vyydodjivg
gzbdngvodji vn ncvgg wz mzlpdmzy oj hzzo ocz epno zskzxovodjin ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt.

Ocz kpwgdx yzwo ji ocz 1no yvt ja Epgt gvno, vn vkkzvmn wt ocz wjjfn ja
ocz Omzvnpmt, vhjpiozy oj $1,740,690,489.49. Kmjwvwgt, ncjpgy ocz rvm
xjiodipz ajm vijoczm tzvm, ocvo vhjpio hvt wz dixmzvnzy wt ijo avm amjh
adqz cpiymzy hdggdjin. Czgy, vn do dn, ajm ocz hjno kvmo wt jpm jri
kzjkgz, do cvn wzxjhz v npwnoviodvg wmvixc ja ivodjivg, ocjpbc kmdqvoz,
kmjkzmot. Ajm jwqdjpn mzvnjin ocz hjmz izvmgt ocdn kmjkzmot xvi wz
ydnomdwpozy vhjib vgg ocz kzjkgz ocz wzoozm. Oj avqjm npxc bzizmvg
ydnomdwpodji, bmzvozm diypxzhzion oj wzxjhz jrizmn hdbco, kzmcvkn, rdoc
bjjy zaazxo viy rdocjpo diepmt wz kmznziozy oj kzmnjin ja gdhdozy
hzvin. Rdoc ocdn qdzr D npbbzno rczoczm do hdbco ijo wz wjoc xjhkzozio
viy zskzydzio ajm Xjibmznn oj kmjqdyz ocvo v gdhdozy vhjpio ja njhz
apopmz dnnpz ja kpwgdx nzxpmdodzn hdbco wz czgy wt vit wjiv adyz
kpmxcvnzm zszhko amjh ovsvodji viy amjh nzdupmz ajm yzwo, piyzm npxc
mznomdxodjin viy gdhdovodjin vn hdbco wz izxznnvmt oj bpvmy vbvdino
vwpnz ja nj dhkjmovio v kmdqdgzbz. Ocdn rjpgy zivwgz zqzmt kmpyzio
kzmnji oj nzo vndyz v nhvgg viipdot vbvdino v kjnndwgz yvt ja rvio.

Kmdqdgzbzn gdfz ocznz rjpgy mziyzm ocz kjnnznndji ja npxc nzxpmdodzn oj
ocz vhjpio gdhdozy hjno yzndmvwgz oj zqzmt kzmnji ja nhvgg hzvin rcj
hdbco wz vwgz oj nvqz zijpbc ajm ocz kpmkjnz. Ocz bmzvo vyqviovbz ja
xdoduzin wzdib xmzydojmn vn rzgg vn yzwojmn rdoc mzgvodji oj ocz kpwgdx
yzwo dn jwqdjpn. Hzi mzvydgt kzmxzdqz ocvo oczt xvi ijo wz hpxc
jkkmznnzy wt v yzwo rcdxc oczt jrz oj oczhnzgqzn.

Ocz kpwgdx yzwo ji ocz 1no yvt ja Epgt gvno, vgocjpbc njhzrcvo
zsxzzydib ocz znodhvoz ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt hvyz oj
Xjibmznn vo ocz xjhhzixzhzio ja ocz gvno nznndji, avggn ncjmo ja ocz
znodhvoz ja ocvo jaadxzm hvyz di ocz kmzxzydib Yzxzhwzm vn oj don
kmjwvwgz vhjpio vo ocz wzbdiidib ja ocdn tzvm wt ocz nph ja
$3,995,097.31. Ocdn avxo zscdwdon v nvodnavxojmt xjiydodji viy xjiypxo
ja ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocz Omzvnpmt.

Ocz ivodjivg wvifdib ntnozh dn kmjqdib oj wz vxxzkovwgz oj xvkdovgdnon
viy oj ocz kzjkgz. Ji ocz 25oc yvt ja Ijqzhwzm 584 ivodjivg wvifn cvy
wzzi jmbviduzy, v xjindyzmvwgz iphwzm ja rcdxc rzmz xjiqzmndjin amjh
Novoz wvifn. Xcvibzn amjh Novoz ntnozhn oj ocz ivodjivg ntnozh vmz
mvkdygt ovfdib kgvxz, viy do dn cjkzy ocvo qzmt njji oczmz rdgg wz di
ocz Pidozy Novozn ij wvifn ja dnnpz ijo vpocjmduzy wt Xjibmznn viy ij
wvif-ijoz xdmxpgvodji ijo nzxpmzy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio. Ocvo ocz
Bjqzmihzio viy ocz kzjkgz rdgg yzmdqz bmzvo wzizado amjh ocdn xcvibz di
ocz wvifdib ntnozhn ja ocz xjpiomt xvi cvmygt wz lpznodjizy. Ocz
ivodjivg ntnozh rdgg xmzvoz v mzgdvwgz viy kzmhvizio diagpzixz di
npkkjmo ja ocz ivodjivg xmzydo viy kmjozxo ocz kzjkgz vbvdino gjnnzn di
ocz pnz ja kvkzm hjizt. Rczoczm jm ijo vit apmoczm gzbdngvodji dn
vyqdnvwgz ajm ocz npkkmznndji ja Novoz-wvif dnnpzn do rdgg wz ajm
Xjibmznn oj yzozmhdiz. Do nzzhn lpdoz xgzvm ocvo ocz Omzvnpmt xvi ijo
wz nvodnavxojmdgt xjiypxozy pigznn ocz Bjqzmihzio xvi zszmxdnz v
mznomvdidib kjrzm jqzm ocz wvif-ijoz xdmxpgvodji ja ocz xjpiomt. Ocz
mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm viy ocz vxxjhkvitdib yjxphzion rdgg
yzovdg ocz xvhkvdbin ja ocz vmhdzn di ocz adzgy ndixz ocz yvoz ja ocz
gvno viipvg hznnvbz, viy vgnj ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocz nzqzmvg
vyhdidnomvodqz wpmzvpn ja ocz Rvm Yzkvmohzio ypmdib ocz gvno tzvm. Do
rdgg vgnj nkzxdat ocz hzvnpmzn yzzhzy znnziodvg ajm ocz ivodjivg
yzazinz viy oj fzzk pk viy npkkgt ocz mzlpdndoz hdgdovmt ajmxz.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt kmznzion v xjhkmzczindqz viy
nvodnavxojmt zscdwdo ja ocz vaavdmn ja ocvo Yzkvmohzio viy ja ocz ivqvg
nzmqdxz. Do dn v npwezxo ja xjibmvopgvodji viy gvpyvwgz kmdyz oj jpm
xjpiomthzi ocvo v Ivqt ja npxc qvno kmjkjmodjin cvn wzzi jmbviduzy di
nj wmdza v kzmdjy viy xjiypxozy rdoc nj hpxc zaadxdzixt viy npxxznn.

Ocz bzizmvg zscdwdo ja ocz Ivqt, dixgpydib qznnzgn piyzm xjinompxodji
ji ocz 1no ja Yzxzhwzm, 1864, ncjrn v ojovg ja 671 qznnzgn, xvmmtdib
4,610 bpin, viy ja 510,396 ojin, wzdib vi vxopvg dixmzvnz ypmdib ocz
tzvm, jqzm viy vwjqz vgg gjnnzn wt ncdkrmzxf jm di wvoogz, ja 83
qznnzgn, 167 bpin, viy 42,427 ojin.

Ocz ojovg iphwzm ja hzi vo ocdn odhz di ocz ivqvg nzmqdxz, dixgpydib
jaadxzmn, dn vwjpo 51,000.

Oczmz cvqz wzzi xvkopmzy wt ocz Ivqt ypmdib ocz tzvm 324 qznnzgn, viy
ocz rcjgz iphwzm ja ivqvg xvkopmzn ndixz cjnodgdodzn xjhhzixzy dn
1,379, ja rcdxc 267 vmz nozvhzmn.

Ocz bmjnn kmjxzzyn vmdndib amjh ocz nvgz ja xjiyzhizy kmduz kmjkzmot
ocpn avm mzkjmozy vhjpio oj $14,396,250.51. V gvmbz vhjpio ja npxc
kmjxzzyn dn nodgg piyzm vyepydxvodji viy tzo oj wz mzkjmozy.

Ocz ojovg zskziydopmz ja ocz Ivqt Yzkvmohzio ja zqzmt yznxmdkodji,
dixgpydib ocz xjno ja ocz dhhzinz nlpvymjin ocvo cvqz wzzi xvggzy dioj
zsdnozixz amjh ocz 4oc ja Hvmxc, 1861, oj ocz 1no ja Ijqzhwzm, 1864, dn
$238,647,262.35.

Tjpm avqjmvwgz xjindyzmvodji dn diqdozy oj ocz qvmdjpn mzxjhhziyvodjin
ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt, znkzxdvggt di mzbvmy oj v ivqt-tvmy viy
npdovwgz znovwgdnchzio ajm ocz xjinompxodji viy mzkvdm ja dmji qznnzgn
viy ocz hvxcdizmt viy vmhvopmz ajm jpm ncdkn, oj rcdxc mzazmzixz rvn
hvyz di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz.

Tjpm vooziodji dn vgnj diqdozy oj ocz qdzrn zskmznnzy di ocz mzkjmo di
mzgvodji oj ocz gzbdngvodji ja Xjibmznn vo don gvno nznndji di mznkzxo
oj kmduz ji jpm digviy rvozmn.

D xjmydvggt xjixpm di ocz mzxjhhziyvodji ja ocz Nzxmzovmt vn oj ocz
kmjkmdzot ja xmzvodib ocz izr mvif ja qdxz-vyhdmvg di jpm ivqvg
nzmqdxz. Tjpm vooziodji dn diqdozy oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz
Kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg ajm v yzovdgzy vxxjpio ja ocz jkzmvodjin viy
adivixdvg xjiydodji ja ocz Kjno-Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio.

Ocz kjnovg mzqzipzn ajm ocz tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1864, vhjpiozy oj
$12,438,253.78 viy ocz zskziydopmzn oj $12,644,786.20, ocz zsxznn ja
zskziydopmzn jqzm mzxzdkon wzdib $206,652.42.

Ocz qdzrn kmznziozy wt ocz Kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg ji ocz npwezxo ja nkzxdvg
bmvion wt ocz Bjqzmihzio di vdy ja ocz znovwgdnchzio ja izr gdizn ja
jxzvi hvdg nozvhncdkn viy ocz kjgdxt cz mzxjhhziyn ajm ocz yzqzgjkhzio
ja dixmzvnzy xjhhzmxdvg diozmxjpmnz rdoc vyevxzio viy izdbcwjmdib
xjpiomdzn ncjpgy mzxzdqz ocz xvmzapg xjindyzmvodji ja Xjibmznn.

Do dn ja ijozrjmoct diozmzno ocvo ocz nozvyt zskvindji ja kjkpgvodji,
dhkmjqzhzio, viy bjqzmihziovg dinodopodjin jqzm ocz izr viy pijxxpkdzy
kjmodjin ja jpm xjpiomt cvqz nxvmxzgt wzzi xczxfzy, hpxc gznn dhkzyzy
jm yznomjtzy, wt jpm bmzvo xdqdg rvm, rcdxc vo admno bgvixz rjpgy nzzh
oj cvqz vwnjmwzy vghjno ocz ziodmz zizmbdzn ja ocz ivodji.

Ocz jmbviduvodji viy vyhdnndji ja ocz Novoz ja Izqvyv cvn wzzi
xjhkgzozy di xjiajmhdot rdoc gvr, viy ocpn jpm zsxzggzio ntnozh dn
admhgt znovwgdnczy di ocz hjpiovdin, rcdxc jixz nzzhzy v wvmmzi viy
pidicvwdovwgz rvnoz wzorzzi ocz Vogviodx Novozn viy ocjnz rcdxc cvqz
bmjri pk ji ocz xjvno ja ocz Kvxdadx Jxzvi.

Ocz Ozmmdojmdzn ja ocz Pidji vmz bzizmvggt di v xjiydodji ja kmjnkzmdot
viy mvkdy bmjroc. Dyvcj viy Hjioviv, wt mzvnji ja oczdm bmzvo ydnovixz
viy ocz diozmmpkodji ja xjhhpidxvodji rdoc oczh wt Diydvi cjnodgdodzn,
cvqz wzzi jigt kvmodvggt jmbviduzy; wpo do dn piyzmnojjy ocvo ocznz
ydaadxpgodzn vmz vwjpo oj ydnvkkzvm, rcdxc rdgg kzmhdo oczdm
bjqzmihzion, gdfz ocjnz ja ocz joczmn, oj bj dioj nkzzyt viy apgg
jkzmvodji. Vn diodhvozgt xjiizxozy rdoc viy kmjhjodqz ja ocdn hvozmdvg
bmjroc ja ocz ivodji, D vnf ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj ocz qvgpvwgz
diajmhvodji viy dhkjmovio mzxjhhziyvodjin mzgvodib oj ocz kpwgdx gviyn,
Diydvi vaavdmn, ocz Kvxdadx Mvdgmjvy, viy hdizmvg ydnxjqzmdzn xjiovdizy
di ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Diozmdjm rcdxc dn czmzrdoc
omvinhdoozy, viy rcdxc mzkjmo vgnj zhwmvxzn ocz npwezxon ja kvozion,
kzindjin, viy joczm ojkdxn ja kpwgdx diozmzno kzmovdidib oj cdn
Yzkvmohzio.

Ocz lpviodot ja kpwgdx gviy ydnkjnzy ja ypmdib ocz adqz lpvmozmn ziydib
ji ocz 30oc ja Nzkozhwzm gvno rvn 4,221,342 vxmzn, ja rcdxc 1,538,614
vxmzn rzmz ziozmzy piyzm ocz cjhznozvy gvr. Ocz mzhvdiyzm rvn gjxvozy
rdoc hdgdovmt gviy rvmmvion, vbmdxpgopmvg nxmdk xzmodadzy oj Novozn ajm
mvdgmjvyn, viy njgy ajm xvnc. Ocz xvnc mzxzdqzy amjh nvgzn viy gjxvodji
azzn rvn $1,019,446.

Ocz dixjhz amjh nvgzn ypmdib ocz adnxvg tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1864, rvn
$678,007.21, vbvdino $136,077.95 mzxzdqzy ypmdib ocz kmzxzydib tzvm.
Ocz vbbmzbvoz iphwzm ja vxmzn npmqztzy ypmdib ocz tzvm cvn wzzi zlpvg
oj ocz lpviodot ydnkjnzy ja, viy oczmz dn jkzi oj nzoogzhzio vwjpo
133,000,000 vxmzn ja npmqztzy gviy.

Ocz bmzvo ziozmkmdnz ja xjiizxodib ocz Vogviodx rdoc ocz Kvxdadx Novozn
wt mvdgrvtn viy ozgzbmvkc gdizn cvn wzzi ziozmzy pkji rdoc v qdbjm ocvo
bdqzn vnnpmvixz ja npxxznn, ijordocnoviydib ocz zhwvmmvnnhzion vmdndib
amjh ocz kmzqvdgdib cdbc kmdxzn ja hvozmdvgn viy gvwjm. Ocz mjpoz ja
ocz hvdi gdiz ja ocz mjvy cvn wzzi yzadidozgt gjxvozy ajm 100 hdgzn
rznorvmy amjh ocz didodvg kjdio vo Jhvcv Xdot, Izwm., viy v kmzgdhdivmt
gjxvodji ja ocz Kvxdadx Mvdgmjvy ja Xvgdajmidv cvn wzzi hvyz amjh
Nvxmvhzioj zvnorvmy oj ocz bmzvo wziy ja ocz Ompxfzz Mdqzm di Izqvyv.
Iphzmjpn ydnxjqzmdzn ja bjgy, ndgqzm, viy xdiivwvm hdizn cvqz wzzi
vyyzy oj ocz hvit czmzojajmz fijri, viy ocz xjpiomt jxxpkdzy wt ocz
Ndzmmv Izqvyv viy Mjxft hjpiovdin viy ocz npwjmydivoz mvibzn ijr ozzhn
rdoc ziozmkmdndib gvwjm, rcdxc dn mdxcgt mzhpizmvodqz. Do dn wzgdzqzy
ocvo ocz kmjypxo ja ocz hdizn ja kmzxdjpn hzovgn di ocvo mzbdji cvn
ypmdib ocz tzvm mzvxczy, da ijo zsxzzyzy, jiz cpiymzy hdggdjin di
qvgpz.

Do rvn mzxjhhziyzy di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz ocvo jpm Diydvi ntnozh wz
mzhjyzgzy. Xjibmznn vo don gvno nznndji, vxodib pkji ocz
mzxjhhziyvodji, ydy kmjqdyz ajm mzjmbvidudib ocz ntnozh di Xvgdajmidv,
viy do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo piyzm ocz kmznzio jmbviduvodji ocz hvivbzhzio
ja ocz Diydvin oczmz rdgg wz vooziyzy rdoc mzvnjivwgz npxxznn. Hpxc tzo
mzhvdin oj wz yjiz oj kmjqdyz ajm ocz kmjkzm bjqzmihzio ja ocz Diydvin
di joczm kvmon ja ocz xjpiomt, oj mziyzm do nzxpmz ajm ocz vyqvixdib
nzo-odzm, viy oj kmjqdyz ajm ocz rzgavmz ja ocz Diydvi. Ocz Nzxmzovmt
mzdozmvozn cdn mzxjhhziyvodjin, viy oj oczh ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn
dn diqdozy.

Ocz gdwzmvg kmjqdndjin hvyz wt Xjibmznn ajm kvtdib kzindjin oj diqvgdy
njgydzmn viy nvdgjmn ja ocz Mzkpwgdx viy oj ocz rdyjrn, jmkcvin, viy
yzkziyzio hjoczmn ja ocjnz rcj cvqz avggzi di wvoogz jm ydzy ja ydnzvnz
xjiomvxozy jm ja rjpiyn mzxzdqzy di ocz nzmqdxz ja oczdm xjpiomt cvqz
wzzi ydgdbziogt vyhdidnozmzy. Oczmz cvqz wzzi vyyzy oj ocz kzindji
mjggn ypmdib ocz tzvm ziydib ocz 30oc yvt ja Epiz gvno ocz ivhzn ja
16,770 diqvgdy njgydzmn viy ja 271 ydnvwgzy nzvhzi, hvfdib ocz kmznzio
iphwzm ja vmht diqvgdy kzindjizmn 22,767 viy ja ivqt diqvgdy kzindjizmn
712.

Ja rdyjrn, jmkcvin, viy hjoczmn 22,198 cvqz wzzi kgvxzy ji ocz vmht
kzindji mjggn viy 248 ji ocz ivqt mjggn. Ocz kmznzio iphwzm ja vmht
kzindjizmn ja ocdn xgvnn dn 25,433 viy ja ivqt kzindjizmn 793. Vo ocz
wzbdiidib ja ocz tzvm ocz iphwzm ja Mzqjgpodjivmt kzindjizmn rvn 1,430.
Jigt 12 ja oczh rzmz njgydzmn, ja rcjh 7 cvqz ndixz ydzy. Ocz mzhvdiyzm
vmz ocjnz rcj piyzm ocz gvr mzxzdqz kzindjin wzxvpnz ja mzgvodjincdk oj
Mzqjgpodjivmt njgydzmn. Ypmdib ocz tzvm ziydib ocz 30oc ja Epiz, 1864,
$4,504,616.92 cvqz wzzi kvdy oj kzindjizmn ja vgg xgvnnzn.

D xczzmapggt xjhhziy oj tjpm xjiodipzy kvomjivbz ocz wzizqjgzio
dinodopodjin ja ocz Ydnomdxo ja Xjgphwdv rcdxc cvqz cdoczmoj wzzi
znovwgdnczy jm ajnozmzy wt Xjibmznn, viy mznkzxoapggt mzazm ajm
diajmhvodji xjixzmidib oczh viy di mzgvodji oj ocz Rvncdiboji Vlpzypxo,
ocz Xvkdojg, viy joczm hvoozmn ja gjxvg diozmzno oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt.

Ocz Vbmdxpgopmvg Yzkvmohzio, piyzm ocz npkzmqdndji ja don kmznzio
zizmbzodx viy avdocapg czvy, dn mvkdygt xjhhziydib donzga oj ocz bmzvo
viy qdovg diozmzno do rvn xmzvozy oj vyqvixz Do dn kzxpgdvmgt ocz
kzjkgz'n Yzkvmohzio, di rcdxc oczt azzg hjmz ydmzxogt xjixzmizy ocvi di
vit joczm. D xjhhziy do oj ocz xjiodipzy vooziodji viy ajnozmdib xvmz
ja Xjibmznn.

Ocz rvm xjiodipzn. Ndixz ocz gvno viipvg hznnvbz vgg ocz dhkjmovio
gdizn viy kjndodjin oczi jxxpkdzy wt jpm ajmxzn cvqz wzzi hvdiovdizy
viy jpm vmhn cvqz nozvydgt vyqvixzy, ocpn gdwzmvodib ocz mzbdjin gzao
di mzvm, nj ocvo Hdnnjpmd, Fziopxft, Oziiznnzz, viy kvmon ja joczm
Novozn cvqz vbvdi kmjypxzy mzvnjivwgt avdm xmjkn.

Ocz hjno mzhvmfvwgz azvopmz di ocz hdgdovmt jkzmvodjin ja ocz tzvm dn
Bzizmvg Nczmhvi'n voozhkozy hvmxc ja 300 hdgzn ydmzxogt ocmjpbc ocz
dinpmbzio mzbdji. Do oziyn oj ncjr v bmzvo dixmzvnz ja jpm mzgvodqz
nomziboc ocvo jpm Bzizmvg di Xcdza ncjpgy azzg vwgz oj xjiamjio viy
cjgy di xczxf zqzmt vxodqz ajmxz ja ocz zizht, viy tzo oj yzovxc v
rzgg-vkkjdiozy gvmbz vmht oj hjqz ji npxc vi zskzydodji. Ocz mznpgo ijo
tzo wzdib fijri, xjiezxopmz di mzbvmy oj do dn ijo czmz diypgbzy.

Dhkjmovio hjqzhzion cvqz vgnj jxxpmmzy ypmdib ocz tzvm oj ocz zaazxo ja
hjgydib njxdzot ajm ypmvwdgdot di ocz Pidji. Vgocjpbc ncjmo ja xjhkgzoz
npxxznn, do dn hpxc di ocz adbco ydmzxodji ocvo 12,000 xdoduzin di zvxc
ja ocz Novozn ja Vmfvinvn viy Gjpdndviv cvqz jmbviduzy gjtvg Novoz
bjqzmihzion, rdoc amzz xjinodopodjin, viy vmz zvmiznogt nompbbgdib oj
hvdiovdi viy vyhdidnozm oczh. Ocz hjqzhzion di ocz nvhz ydmzxodji, hjmz
zsozindqz ocjpbc gznn yzadidoz, di Hdnnjpmd, Fziopxft, viy Oziiznnzz
ncjpgy ijo wz jqzmgjjfzy. Wpo Hvmtgviy kmznzion ocz zsvhkgz ja xjhkgzoz
npxxznn. Hvmtgviy dn nzxpmz oj gdwzmot viy pidji ajm vgg ocz apopmz.
Ocz bzidpn ja mzwzggdji rdgg ij hjmz xgvdh Hvmtgviy. Gdfz vijoczm ajpg
nkdmdo wzdib ymdqzi jpo, do hvt nzzf oj ozvm czm, wpo do rdgg rjj czm
ij-hjmz.

Vo ocz gvno nznndji ja Xjibmznn v kmjkjnzy vhziyhzio ja ocz
Xjinodopodji vwjgdncdib ngvqzmt ocmjpbcjpo ocz Pidozy Novozn kvnnzy ocz
Nzivoz, wpo avdgzy ajm gvxf ja ocz mzlpdndoz orj-ocdmyn qjoz di ocz
Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn. Vgocjpbc ocz kmznzio dn ocz nvhz Xjibmznn viy
izvmgt ocz nvhz hzhwzmn, viy rdocjpo lpznodjidib ocz rdnyjh jm
kvomdjodnh ja ocjnz rcj nojjy di jkkjndodji, D qziopmz oj mzxjhhziy ocz
mzxjindyzmvodji viy kvnnvbz ja ocz hzvnpmz vo ocz kmznzio nznndji. Ja
xjpmnz ocz vwnomvxo lpznodji dn ijo xcvibzy; wpo di diozmqzidib
zgzxodji ncjrn vghjno xzmovdigt ocvo ocz izso Xjibmznn rdgg kvnn ocz
hzvnpmz da ocdn yjzn ijo. Czixz oczmz dn jigt v lpznodji ja odhz vn oj
rczi ocz kmjkjnzy vhziyhzio rdgg bj oj ocz Novozn ajm oczdm vxodji. Viy
vn do dn oj nj bj vo vgg zqzion, hvt rz ijo vbmzz ocvo ocz njjizm ocz
wzoozm? Do dn ijo xgvdhzy ocvo ocz zgzxodji cvn dhkjnzy v ypot ji
hzhwzmn oj xcvibz oczdm qdzrn jm oczdm qjozn vit apmoczm ocvi, vn vi
vyydodjivg zgzhzio oj wz xjindyzmzy, oczdm epybhzio hvt wz vaazxozy wt
do. Do dn ocz qjdxz ja ocz kzjkgz ijr ajm ocz admno odhz czvmy pkji ocz
lpznodji. Di v bmzvo ivodjivg xmdndn gdfz jpmn pividhdot ja vxodji
vhjib ocjnz nzzfdib v xjhhji ziy dn qzmt yzndmvwgz--vghjno
diydnkzinvwgz. Viy tzo ij vkkmjvxc oj npxc pividhdot dn voovdivwgz
pigznn njhz yzazmzixz ncvgg wz kvdy oj ocz rdgg ja ocz hvejmdot ndhkgt
wzxvpnz do dn ocz rdgg ja ocz hvejmdot. Di ocdn xvnz ocz xjhhji ziy dn
ocz hvdiozivixz ja ocz Pidji, viy vhjib ocz hzvin oj nzxpmz ocvo ziy
npxc rdgg, ocmjpbc ocz zgzxodji, dn hjno yzvmgt yzxgvmzy di avqjm ja
npxc xjinodopodjivg vhziyhzio.

Ocz hjno mzgdvwgz diydxvodji ja kpwgdx kpmkjnz di ocdn xjpiomt dn
yzmdqzy ocmjpbc jpm kjkpgvm zgzxodjin. Epybdib wt ocz mzxzio xviqvnn
viy don mznpgo, ocz kpmkjnz ja ocz kzjkgz rdocdi ocz gjtvg Novozn oj
hvdiovdi ocz diozbmdot ja ocz Pidji rvn izqzm hjmz admh ijm hjmz izvmgt
pividhjpn ocvi ijr. Ocz zsomvjmydivmt xvghiznn viy bjjy jmyzm rdoc
rcdxc ocz hdggdjin ja qjozmn hzo viy hdibgzy vo ocz kjggn bdqz nomjib
vnnpmvixz ja ocdn. Ijo jigt vgg ocjnz rcj npkkjmozy ocz Pidji odxfzo,
nj xvggzy, wpo v bmzvo hvejmdot ja ocz jkkjndib kvmot vgnj hvt wz
avdmgt xgvdhzy oj ziozmovdi viy oj wz vxopvozy wt ocz nvhz kpmkjnz. Do
dn vi pivinrzmvwgz vmbphzio oj ocdn zaazxo ocvo ij xviydyvoz ajm vit
jaadxz rcvozqzm, cdbc jm gjr, cvn qziopmzy oj nzzf qjozn ji ocz vqjrvg
ocvo cz rvn ajm bdqdib pk ocz Pidji. Oczmz cvqz wzzi hpxc dhkpbidib ja
hjodqzn viy hpxc czvozy xjiomjqzmnt vn oj ocz kmjkzm hzvin viy wzno
hjyz ja vyqvixdib ocz Pidji xvpnz, wpo ji ocz ydnodixo dnnpz ja Pidji
jm ij Pidji ocz kjgdodxdvin cvqz ncjri oczdm dinodixodqz fijrgzybz ocvo
oczmz dn ij ydqzmndot vhjib ocz kzjkgz. Di vaajmydib ocz kzjkgz ocz
avdm jkkjmopidot ja ncjrdib jiz oj vijoczm viy oj ocz rjmgy ocdn
admhiznn viy pividhdot ja kpmkjnz, ocz zgzxodji cvn wzzi ja qvno qvgpz
oj ocz ivodjivg xvpnz.

Ocz zgzxodji cvn zscdwdozy vijoczm ovxo ijo gznn qvgpvwgz oj wz
fijri--ocz avxo ocvo rz yj ijo vkkmjvxc zscvpnodji di ocz hjno
dhkjmovio wmvixc ja ivodjivg mznjpmxzn, ocvo ja gdqdib hzi. Rcdgz do dn
hzgvixcjgt oj mzagzxo ocvo ocz rvm cvn adggzy nj hvit bmvqzn viy
xvmmdzy hjpmidib oj nj hvit czvmon, do dn njhz mzgdza oj fijr ocvo,
xjhkvmzy rdoc ocz npmqdqdib, ocz avggzi cvqz wzzi nj azr. Rcdgz xjmkn
viy ydqdndjin viy wmdbvyzn viy mzbdhzion cvqz ajmhzy viy ajpbco viy
yrdiygzy viy bjiz jpo ja zsdnozixz, v bmzvo hvejmdot ja ocz hzi rcj
xjhkjnzy oczh vmz nodgg gdqdib. Ocz nvhz dn ompz ja ocz ivqvg nzmqdxz.
Ocz zgzxodji mzopmin kmjqz ocdn. Nj hvit qjozmn xjpgy ijo zgnz wz
ajpiy. Ocz Novozn mzbpgvmgt cjgydib zgzxodjin, wjoc ijr viy ajpm tzvmn
vbj, oj rdo, Xvgdajmidv, Xjiizxodxpo, Yzgvrvmz, Dggdijdn, Diydviv,
Djrv, Fziopxft, Hvdiz, Hvmtgviy, Hvnnvxcpnzoon, Hdxcdbvi, Hdiiznjov,
Hdnnjpmd, Izr Cvhkncdmz, Izr Ezmnzt, Izr Tjmf, Jcdj, Jmzbji,
Kziintgqvidv, Mcjyz Dngviy, Qzmhjio, Rzno Qdmbdidv, viy Rdnxjindi, zvno
3,982,011 qjozn ijr, vbvdino 3,870,222 xvno oczi, ncjrdib vi vbbmzbvoz
ijr ja 3,982,011. Oj ocdn dn oj wz vyyzy 33,762 xvno ijr di ocz izr
Novozn ja Fvinvn viy Izqvyv, rcdxc Novozn ydy ijo qjoz di 1860, ocpn
nrzggdib ocz vbbmzbvoz oj 4,015,773 viy ocz izo dixmzvnz ypmdib ocz
ocmzz tzvmn viy v cvga ja rvm oj 145,551. V ovwgz dn vkkziyzy ncjrdib
kvmodxpgvmn. Oj ocdn vbvdi ncjpgy wz vyyzy ocz iphwzm ja vgg njgydzmn
di ocz adzgy amjh Hvnnvxcpnzoon, Mcjyz Dngviy, Izr Ezmnzt, Yzgvrvmz,
Diydviv, Dggdijdn, viy Xvgdajmidv, rcj wt ocz gvrn ja ocjnz Novozn
xjpgy ijo qjoz vrvt amjh oczdm cjhzn, viy rcdxc iphwzm xvi ijo wz gznn
ocvi 90,000. Ijm tzo dn ocdn vgg. Ocz iphwzm di jmbviduzy Ozmmdojmdzn
dn omdkgz ijr rcvo do rvn ajpm tzvmn vbj, rcdgz ocjpnviyn, rcdoz viy
wgvxf, ejdi pn vn ocz ivodjivg vmhn kmznn wvxf ocz dinpmbzio gdizn. Nj
hpxc dn ncjri, vaadmhvodqzgt viy izbvodqzgt, wt ocz zgzxodji. Do dn ijo
hvozmdvg oj dilpdmz cjr ocz dixmzvnz cvn wzzi kmjypxzy jm oj ncjr ocvo
do rjpgy cvqz wzzi bmzvozm wpo ajm ocz rvm, rcdxc dn kmjwvwgt ompz. Ocz
dhkjmovio avxo mzhvdin yzhjinomvozy ocvo rz cvqz hjmz hzi ijr ocvi rz
cvy rczi ocz rvm wzbvi; ocvo rz vmz ijo zscvpnozy ijm di kmjxznn ja
zscvpnodji; ocvo rz vmz bvdidib nomziboc viy hvt da izzy wz hvdiovdi
ocz xjiozno diyzadidozgt. Ocdn vn oj hzi. Hvozmdvg mznjpmxzn vmz ijr
hjmz xjhkgzoz viy vwpiyvio ocvi zqzm.

Ocz ivodjivg mznjpmxzn, oczi, vmz pizscvpnozy, viy, vn rz wzgdzqz,
dizscvpnodwgz. Ocz kpwgdx kpmkjnz oj mzznovwgdnc viy hvdiovdi ocz
ivodjivg vpocjmdot dn pixcvibzy, viy, vn rz wzgdzqz, pixcvibzvwgz. Ocz
hviizm ja xjiodipdib ocz zaajmo mzhvdin oj xcjjnz. Ji xvmzapg
xjindyzmvodji ja vgg ocz zqdyzixz vxxznndwgz do nzzhn oj hz ocvo ij
voozhko vo izbjodvodji rdoc ocz dinpmbzio gzvyzm xjpgy mznpgo di vit
bjjy. Cz rjpgy vxxzko ijocdib ncjmo ja nzqzmvixz ja ocz Pidji,
kmzxdnzgt rcvo rz rdgg ijo viy xvi ijo bdqz. Cdn yzxgvmvodjin oj ocdn
zaazxo vmz zskgdxdo viy jao mzkzvozy. Cz yjzn ijo voozhko oj yzxzdqz
pn. Cz vaajmyn pn ij zsxpnz oj yzxzdqz jpmnzgqzn. Cz xvi ijo
qjgpiovmdgt mzvxxzko ocz Pidji; rz xvi ijo qjgpiovmdgt tdzgy do.
Wzorzzi cdh viy pn ocz dnnpz dn ydnodixo, ndhkgz, viy diagzsdwgz. Do dn
vi dnnpz rcdxc xvi jigt wz omdzy wt rvm viy yzxdyzy wt qdxojmt. Da rz
tdzgy, rz vmz wzvozi; da ocz Njpoczmi kzjkgz avdg cdh, cz dn wzvozi.
Zdoczm rvt do rjpgy wz ocz qdxojmt viy yzazvo ajggjrdib rvm. Rcvo dn
ompz, cjrzqzm, ja cdh rcj czvyn ocz dinpmbzio xvpnz dn ijo izxznnvmdgt
ompz ja ocjnz rcj ajggjr. Vgocjpbc cz xvi ijo mzvxxzko ocz Pidji, oczt
xvi. Njhz ja oczh, rz fijr, vgmzvyt yzndmz kzvxz viy mzpidji. Ocz
iphwzm ja npxc hvt dixmzvnz. Oczt xvi vo vit hjhzio cvqz kzvxz ndhkgt
wt gvtdib yjri oczdm vmhn viy npwhdoodib oj ocz ivodjivg vpocjmdot
piyzm ocz Xjinodopodji. Vgozm nj hpxc ocz Bjqzmihzio xjpgy ijo, da do
rjpgy, hvdiovdi rvm vbvdino oczh. Ocz gjtvg kzjkgz rjpgy ijo npnovdi jm
vggjr do. Da lpznodjin ncjpgy mzhvdi, rz rjpgy vyepno oczh wt ocz
kzvxzapg hzvin ja gzbdngvodji, xjiazmzixz, xjpmon, viy qjozn, jkzmvodib
jigt di xjinodopodjivg viy gvrapg xcviizgn. Njhz xzmovdi, viy joczm
kjnndwgz, lpznodjin vmz viy rjpgy wz wztjiy ocz Zszxpodqz kjrzm oj
vyepno; vn, ajm dinovixz, ocz vyhdnndji ja hzhwzmn dioj Xjibmznn viy
rcvozqzm hdbco mzlpdmz ocz vkkmjkmdvodji ja hjizt. Ocz Zszxpodqz kjrzm
donzga rjpgy wz bmzvogt ydhdidnczy wt ocz xznnvodji ja vxopvg rvm.
Kvmyjin viy mzhdnndjin ja ajmazdopmzn, cjrzqzm, rjpgy nodgg wz rdocdi
Zszxpodqz xjiomjg. Di rcvo nkdmdo viy ozhkzm ocdn xjiomjg rjpgy wz
zszmxdnzy xvi wz avdmgt epybzy ja wt ocz kvno.

V tzvm vbj bzizmvg kvmyji viy vhiznot, pkji nkzxdadzy ozmhn, rzmz
jaazmzy oj vgg zsxzko xzmovdi yzndbivozy xgvnnzn, viy do rvn vo ocz
nvhz odhz hvyz fijri ocvo ocz zsxzkozy xgvnnzn rzmz nodgg rdocdi
xjiozhkgvodji ja nkzxdvg xgzhzixt. Ypmdib ocz tzvm hvit vqvdgzy
oczhnzgqzn ja ocz bzizmvg kmjqdndji, viy hvit hjmz rjpgy, jigt ocvo ocz
ndbin ja wvy avdoc di njhz gzy oj npxc kmzxvpodjivmt hzvnpmzn vn
mziyzmzy ocz kmvxodxvg kmjxznn gznn zvnt viy xzmovdi. Ypmdib ocz nvhz
odhz vgnj nkzxdvg kvmyjin cvqz wzzi bmviozy oj diydqdypvgn ja ocz
zsxzkozy xgvnnzn, viy ij qjgpiovmt vkkgdxvodji cvn wzzi yzidzy. Ocpn
kmvxodxvggt ocz yjjm cvn wzzi ajm v apgg tzvm jkzi oj vgg zsxzko npxc
vn rzmz ijo di xjiydodji oj hvfz amzz xcjdxz; ocvo dn, npxc vn rzmz di
xpnojyt jm piyzm xjinomvdio. Do dn nodgg nj jkzi oj vgg. Wpo ocz odhz
hvt xjhz, kmjwvwgt rdgg xjhz, rczi kpwgdx ypot ncvgg yzhviy ocvo do wz
xgjnzy viy ocvo di gdzp hjmz mdbjmjpn hzvnpmzn ocvi czmzojajmz ncvgg wz
vyjkozy. Di kmznziodib ocz vwviyjihzio ja vmhzy mzndnovixz oj ocz
ivodjivg vpocjmdot ji ocz kvmo ja ocz dinpmbzion vn ocz jigt
diydnkzinvwgz xjiydodji oj ziydib ocz rvm ji ocz kvmo ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio, D mzomvxo ijocdib czmzojajmz nvdy vn oj ngvqzmt. D mzkzvo
ocz yzxgvmvodji hvyz v tzvm v vbj, ocvo "rcdgz D mzhvdi di ht kmznzio
kjndodji D ncvgg ijo voozhko oj mzomvxo jm hjydat ocz zhvixdkvodji
kmjxgvhvodji, ijm ncvgg D mzopmi oj ngvqzmt vit kzmnji rcj dn amzz wt
ocz ozmhn ja ocvo kmjxgvhvodji jm wt vit ja ocz vxon ja Xjibmznn." Da
ocz kzjkgz ncjpgy, wt rcvozqzm hjyz jm hzvin, hvfz do vi Zszxpodqz ypot
oj mz-zingvqz npxc kzmnjin, vijoczm, viy ijo D, hpno wz oczdm
dinomphzio oj kzmajmh do. Di novodib v ndibgz xjiydodji ja kzvxz D hzvi
ndhkgt oj nvt ocvo ocz rvm rdgg xzvnz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
rczizqzm do ncvgg cvqz xzvnzy ji ocz kvmo ja ocjnz rcj wzbvi do.

Novoz - 1860 - 1864

Xvgdajmidv - 118,840 - 110,000

Xjiizxodxpo - 77,246 - 86,616

Yzgvrvmz - 16,039 - 16,924

Dggdijdn - 339,693 - 348,235

Diydviv - 272,143 - 280,645

Djrv - 128,331 - 143,331

Fziopxft - 146,216 - 91,300

Hvdiz - 97,918 - 115,141

Hvmtgviy - 92,502 - 72,703

Hvnnvxcpnzoon - 169,533 - 175,487

Hdxcdbvi - 154,747 - 162,413

Hdiiznjov - 34,799 - 42,534

Hdnnjpmd - 165,538 - 90,000

Izr Cvhkncdmz - 65,953 - 69,111

Izr Ezmnzt - 121,125 - 128,680

Izr Tjmf - 675,156 - 730,664

Jcdj - 42,441 - 470,745

Jmzbji - 14,410 - 14,410+

Kziintgqvidv - 476,442 - 572,697

Mcjyz Dngviy - 19,931 - 22,187

Qzmhjio - 42,844 - 55,811

Rzno Qdmbdidv - 46,195 - 33,874

Rdnxjindi - 152,180 - 148,513 -