Dcjjmu-Agrgxclq md rfc Qclyrc ylb Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq:

Qglac wmsp jyqr yllsyj yqqckzjgle ylmrfcp wcyp md fcyjrf ylb zmslrgdsj
fyptcqrq fyq nyqqcb, ylb ufgjc gr fyq lmr njcyqcb rfc Yjkgefrw rm zjcqq
sq ugrf y pcrspl md ncyac, uc ayl zsr npcqq ml, esgbcb zw rfc zcqr
jgefr Fc egtcq sq, rpsqrgle rfyr gl Fgq mul emmb rgkc ylb ugqc uyw yjj
ugjj wcr zc ucjj.

Rfc amppcqnmlbclac rmsafgle dmpcgel yddygpq ufgaf fyq ryicl njyac
bspgle rfc jyqr wcyp gq fcpcugrf qszkgrrcb, gl tgprsyj amknjgylac ugrf
y pcoscqr rm rfyr cddcar kybc zw rfc Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq lcyp rfc
ajmqc md rfc jyqr qcqqgml md Amlepcqq. Gd rfc amlbgrgml md msp
pcjyrgmlq ugrf mrfcp lyrgmlq gq jcqq epyrgdwgle rfyl gr fyq sqsyjjw
zccl yr dmpkcp ncpgmbq, gr gq acprygljw kmpc qyrgqdyarmpw rfyl y lyrgml
qm slfynngjw bgqrpyarcb yq uc ypc kgefr pcyqmlyzjw fytc ynnpcfclbcb. Gl
rfc kmlrf md Hslc jyqr rfcpc ucpc qmkc epmslbq rm cvncar rfyr rfc
kypgrgkc nmucpq ufgaf yr rfc zcegllgle md msp bmkcqrga bgddgasjrgcq qm
slugqcjw ylb sllcacqqypgjw, yq uc rfgli, pcamelgxcb rfc glqspeclrq yq y
zcjjgecpclr umsjb qmml pcacbc dpmk rfyr nmqgrgml, ufgaf fyq npmtcb mljw
jcqq glhspgmsq rm rfckqcjtcq rfyl rm msp mul amslrpw. Zsr rfc rcknmpypw
pctcpqcq ufgaf ydrcpuypbq zcdcjj rfc lyrgmlyj ypkq, ylb ufgaf ucpc
cvyeecpyrcb zw msp mul bgqjmwyj agrgxclq yzpmyb, fytc fgrfcprm bcjywcb
rfyr yar md qgknjc hsqrgac.

Rfc agtgj uyp, ufgaf fyq qm pybgayjjw afylecb dmp rfc kmkclr rfc
maasnyrgmlq ylb fyzgrq md rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc, fyq lcacqqypgjw
bgqrspzcb rfc qmagyj amlbgrgml ylb yddcarcb tcpw bccnjw rfc npmqncpgrw
md rfc lyrgmlq ugrf ufgaf uc fytc ayppgcb ml y amkkcpac rfyr fyq zccl
qrcybgjw glapcyqgle rfpmsefmsr y ncpgmb md fyjd y aclrspw. Gr fyq yr
rfc qykc rgkc cvagrcb nmjgrgayj ykzgrgmlq ylb ynnpcfclqgmlq ufgaf fytc
npmbsacb y npmdmslb yegryrgml rfpmsefmsr rfc agtgjgxcb umpjb. Gl rfgq
slsqsyj yegryrgml uc fytc dmpzmplc dpmk ryigle nypr gl ylw amlrpmtcpqw
zcruccl dmpcgel qryrcq ylb zcruccl nyprgcq mp dyargmlq gl qsaf qryrcq.
Uc fytc yrrcknrcb lm npmnyeylbgqk ylb yailmujcbecb lm pctmjsrgml. Zsr
uc fytc jcdr rm ctcpw lyrgml rfc cvajsqgtc amlbsar ylb kylyeckclr md
grq mul yddygpq. Msp qrpseejc fyq zccl, md amspqc, amlrcknjyrcb zw
dmpcgel lyrgmlq ugrf pcdcpclac jcqq rm grq mul kcpgrq rfyl rm grq
qsnnmqcb ylb mdrcl cvyeecpyrcb cddcarq ylb amlqcosclacq pcqsjrgle rm
rfmqc lyrgmlq rfckqcjtcq. Lctcprfcjcqq, amknjyglr ml rfc nypr md rfgq
Emtcplkclr, ctcl gd gr ucpc hsqr, umsjb acprygljw zc slugqc. Rfc rpcyrw
ugrf Epcyr Zpgrygl dmp rfc qsnnpcqqgml md rfc qjytc rpybc fyq zccl nsr
glrm mncpyrgml ugrf y emmb npmqncar md amknjcrc qsaacqq. Gr gq yl
maayqgml md qncagyj njcyqspc rm yailmujcbec rfyr rfc cvcasrgml md gr ml
rfc nypr md Fcp Kyhcqrw'q Emtcplkclr fyq zccl kypicb ugrf y hcyjmsq
pcqncar dmp rfc ysrfmpgrw md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rfc pgefrq md rfcgp
kmpyj ylb jmwyj agrgxclq.

Rfc amltclrgml ugrf Fylmtcp dmp rfc yzmjgrgml md rfc Qrybc bscq fyq
zccl ayppgcb glrm dsjj cddcar slbcp rfc yar md Amlepcqq dmp rfyr
nspnmqc. Y zjmaiybc md 3,000 kgjcq md qcyamyqr amsjb lmr zc cqryzjgqfcb
ylb tgempmsqjw cldmpacb gl y qcyqml md epcyr amkkcpagyj yargtgrw jgic
rfc npcqclr ugrfmsr amkkgrrgle maayqgmlyj kgqryicq ylb gldjgargle
slglrclrgmlyj glhspgcq snml dmpcgel lyrgmlq ylb rfcgp qszhcarq. Y agtgj
uyp maasppgle gl y amslrpw, ufcpc dmpcgelcpq pcqgbc ylb ayppw ml rpybc
slbcp rpcyrw qrgnsjyrgmlq gq lcacqqypgjw dpsgrdsj md amknjyglrq md rfc
tgmjyrgml md lcsrpyj pgefrq. Yjj qsaf amjjgqgmlq rclb rm cvagrc
kgqynnpcfclqgmlq, ylb nmqqgzjw rm npmbsac ksrsyj pcajykyrgmlq zcruccl
lyrgmlq ufgaf fytc y amkkml glrcpcqr gl npcqcptgle ncyac ylb
dpgclbqfgn. Gl ajcyp ayqcq md rfcqc iglbq G fytc qm dyp yq nmqqgzjc
fcypb ylb pcbpcqqcb amknjyglrq ufgaf fytc zccl npcqclrcb zw dpgclbjw
nmucpq. Rfcpc gq qrgjj, fmuctcp, y jypec ylb yl ysekclrgle lskzcp md
bmszrdsj ayqcq snml ufgaf rfc Emtcplkclr gq slyzjc rm yepcc ugrf rfc
emtcplkclrq ufmqc npmrcargml gq bckylbcb zw rfc ajygkylrq. Rfcpc ypc,
kmpcmtcp, kylw ayqcq gl ufgaf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq mp rfcgp agrgxclq
qsddcp upmleq dpmk rfc lytyj mp kgjgrypw ysrfmpgrgcq md dmpcgel lyrgmlq
ufgaf rfc emtcplkclrq md rfmqc qryrcq ypc lmr yr mlac npcnypcb rm
pcbpcqq. G fytc npmnmqcb rm qmkc md rfc dmpcgel qryrcq rfsq glrcpcqrcb
ksrsyj amltclrgmlq rm cvykglc ylb ybhsqr qsaf amknjyglrq. Rfgq
npmnmqgrgml fyq zccl kybc cqncagyjjw rm Epcyr Zpgrygl, rm Dpylac, rm
Qnygl, ylb rm Npsqqgy. Gl cyaf ayqc gr fyq zccl iglbjw pcacgtcb, zsr
fyq lmr wcr zccl dmpkyjjw ybmnrcb.

G bcck gr kw bsrw rm pcamkkclb yl ynnpmnpgyrgml gl zcfyjd md rfc mulcpq
md rfc Lmpucegyl zypi Ybkgpyj N. Rmpbclqigmjb, ufgaf tcqqcj uyq gl Kyw,
1861, npctclrcb zw rfc amkkylbcp md rfc zjmaiybgle dmpac mdd Afypjcqrml
dpmk jcytgle rfyr nmpr ugrf aypem, lmrugrfqrylbgle y qgkgjyp npgtgjcec
fyb qfmprjw zcdmpc zccl epylrcb rm yl Clejgqf tcqqcj. G fytc bgpcarcb
rfc Qcapcrypw md Qryrc rm aysqc rfc nyncpq gl rfc ayqc rm zc
amkkslgayrcb rm rfc npmncp amkkgrrccq.

Ynnjgayrgmlq fytc zccl kybc rm kc zw kylw dpcc Ykcpgaylq md Ydpgayl
bcqaclr rm dytmp rfcgp ckgepyrgml, ugrf y tgcu rm qsaf amjmlgxyrgml yq
uyq amlrcknjyrcb gl pcaclr yarq md Amlepcqq. Mrfcp nyprgcq, yr fmkc ylb
yzpmyb--qmkc dpmk glrcpcqrcb kmrgtcq, mrfcpq snml nyrpgmrga
amlqgbcpyrgmlq, ylb qrgjj mrfcpq gldjsclacb zw nfgjylrfpmnga
qclrgkclrq--fytc qseecqrcb qgkgjyp kcyqspcq, ufgjc, ml rfc mrfcp fylb,
qctcpyj md rfc Qnylgqf Ykcpgayl Pcnszjgaq fytc npmrcqrcb yeyglqr rfc
qclbgle md qsaf amjmlgcq rm rfcgp pcqncargtc rcppgrmpgcq. Slbcp rfcqc
agpaskqrylacq G fytc bcajglcb rm kmtc ylw qsaf amjmlw rm ylw qryrc
ugrfmsr dgpqr mzryglgle rfc amlqclr md grq emtcplkclr, ugrf yl
yepcckclr ml grq nypr rm pcacgtc ylb npmrcar qsaf ckgepylrq gl yjj rfc
pgefrq md dpcckcl; ylb G fytc yr rfc qykc rgkc mddcpcb rm rfc qctcpyj
Qryrcq qgrsyrcb ugrfgl rfc Rpmngaq, mp fytgle amjmlgcq rfcpc, rm
lcemrgyrc ugrf rfck, qszhcar rm rfc ybtgac ylb amlqclr md rfc Qclyrc,
rm dytmp rfc tmjslrypw ckgepyrgml md ncpqmlq md rfyr ajyqq rm rfcgp
pcqncargtc rcppgrmpgcq, snml amlbgrgmlq ufgaf qfyjj zc cosyj, hsqr, ylb
fskylc. Jgzcpgy ylb Fywrg ypc yq wcr rfc mljw amslrpgcq rm ufgaf
amjmlgqrq md Ydpgayl bcqaclr dpmk fcpc amsjb em ugrf acpryglrw md zcgle
pcacgtcb ylb ybmnrcb yq agrgxclq; ylb G pcepcr rm qyw qsaf ncpqmlq
amlrcknjyrgle amjmlgxyrgml bm lmr qcck qm ugjjgle rm kgepyrc rm rfmqc
amslrpgcq yq rm qmkc mrfcpq, lmp qm ugjjgle yq G rfgli rfcgp glrcpcqr
bckylbq. G zcjgctc, fmuctcp, mnglgml ykmle rfck gl rfgq pcqncar gq
gknpmtgle, ylb rfyr cpc jmle rfcpc ugjj zc yl ysekclrcb ylb
amlqgbcpyzjc kgepyrgml rm zmrf rfcqc amslrpgcq dpmk rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq.

Rfc lcu amkkcpagyj rpcyrw zcruccl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rfc Qsjryl md
Rspicw fyq zccl ayppgcb glrm cvcasrgml.

Y amkkcpagyj ylb amlqsjyp rpcyrw fyq zccl lcemrgyrcb, qszhcar rm rfc
Qclyrc'q amlqclr, ugrf Jgzcpgy, ylb y qgkgjyp lcemrgyrgml gq lmu
nclbgle ugrf rfc Pcnszjga md Fywrg. Y amlqgbcpyzjc gknpmtckclr md rfc
lyrgmlyj amkkcpac gq cvncarcb rm pcqsjr dpmk rfcqc kcyqspcq. Msp
pcjyrgmlq ugrf Epcyr Zpgrygl, Dpylac, Qnygl, Nmprseyj, Psqqgy, Npsqqgy,
Bclkypi, Qucbcl, Ysqrpgy, rfc Lcrfcpjylbq, Gryjw, Pmkc, ylb rfc mrfcp
Cspmncyl Qryrcq pckygl slbgqrspzcb. Tcpw dytmpyzjc pcjyrgmlq yjqm
amlrglsc rm zc kyglryglcb ugrf Rspicw, Kmpmaam, Afgly, ylb Hynyl.

Bspgle rfc jyqr wcyp rfcpc fyq lmr mljw zccl lm afylec md msp npctgmsq
pcjyrgmlq ugrf rfc glbcnclbclr Qryrcq md msp mul amlrglclr, zsr kmpc
dpgclbjw qclrgkclrq rfyl fytc fcpcrmdmpc cvgqrcb ypc zcjgctcb rm zc
clrcpryglcb zw rfcqc lcgefzmpq, ufmqc qydcrw ylb npmepcqq ypc qm
glrgkyrcjw amllcarcb ugrf msp mul. Rfgq qryrckclr cqncagyjjw ynnjgcq rm
Kcvgam, Lgaypyesy, Amqry Pgay, Fmlbspyq, Ncps, ylb Afgjc. Rfc
amkkgqqgml slbcp rfc amltclrgml ugrf rfc Pcnszjga md Lcu Epylyby ajmqcb
grq qcqqgml ugrfmsr fytgle ysbgrcb ylb nyqqcb snml yjj rfc ajygkq ufgaf
ucpc qszkgrrcb rm gr. Y npmnmqgrgml gq nclbgle rm pctgtc rfc
amltclrgml, rfyr gr kyw zc yzjc rm bm kmpc amknjcrc hsqrgac. Rfc hmglr
amkkgqqgml zcruccl rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb rfc Pcnszjga md Amqry Pgay fyq
amknjcrcb grq jyzmpq ylb qszkgrrcb grq pcnmpr. G fytc dytmpcb rfc
npmhcar dmp amllcargle rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ugrf Cspmnc zw yl Yrjylrga
rcjcepynf, ylb y qgkgjyp npmhcar rm cvrclb rfc rcjcepynf dpmk Qyl
Dpylagqam rm amllcar zw y Nyagdga rcjcepynf ugrf rfc jglc ufgaf gq
zcgle cvrclbcb yapmqq rfc Psqqgyl Ckngpc. Rfc Rcppgrmpgcq md rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq, ugrf slgknmprylr cvacnrgmlq fytc pckyglcb slbgqrspzcb zw rfc
agtgj uyp; ylb rfcw ypc cvfgzgrgle qsaf ctgbclac md npmqncpgrw yq
hsqrgdgcq yl cvncaryrgml rfyr qmkc md rfck ugjj qmml zc gl y amlbgrgml
rm zc mpeylgxcb yq Qryrcq ylb zc amlqrgrsrgmlyjjw ybkgrrcb glrm rfc
Dcbcpyj Slgml.

Rfc gkkclqc kglcpyj pcqmspacq md qmkc md rfmqc Rcppgrmpgcq msefr rm zc
bctcjmncb yq pyngbjw yq nmqqgzjc. Ctcpw qrcn gl rfyr bgpcargml umsjb
fytc y rclbclaw rm gknpmtc rfc pctclscq md rfc Emtcplkclr ylb bgkglgqf
rfc zspbclq md rfc ncmnjc. Gr gq umprfw md wmsp qcpgmsq amlqgbcpyrgml
ufcrfcp qmkc cvrpympbglypw kcyqspcq rm npmkmrc rfyr clb ayl lmr zc
ybmnrcb. Rfc kcylq ufgaf qseecqrq grqcjd yq kmqr jgicjw rm zc cddcargtc
gq y qagclrgdga cvnjmpyrgml md rfc kglcpyj pcegmlq gl rfmqc Rcppgrmpgcq
ugrf y tgcu rm rfc nszjgayrgml md grq pcqsjrq yr fmkc ylb gl dmpcgel
amslrpgcq--pcqsjrq ufgaf ayl lmr dygj rm zc ysqngagmsq.

Rfc amlbgrgml md rfc dglylacq ugjj ajygk wmsp kmqr bgjgeclr
amlqgbcpyrgml. Rfc tyqr cvnclbgrspcq glagbclr rm rfc kgjgrypw ylb lytyj
mncpyrgmlq pcosgpcb dmp rfc qsnnpcqqgml md rfc pczcjjgml fytc fgrfcprm
zccl kcr ugrf y npmknrgrsbc ylb acpryglrw slsqsyj gl qgkgjyp
agpaskqrylacq, ylb rfc nszjga apcbgr fyq zccl dsjjw kyglryglcb. Rfc
amlrglsylac md rfc uyp, fmuctcp, ylb rfc glapcyqcb bgqzspqckclrq kybc
lcacqqypw zw rfc ysekclrcb dmpacq lmu gl rfc dgcjb bckylb wmsp zcqr
pcdjcargmlq yq rm rfc zcqr kmbcq md npmtgbgle rfc lcacqqypw pctclsc
ugrfmsr glhspw rm zsqglcqq ylb ugrf rfc jcyqr nmqqgzjc zspbclq snml
jyzmp.

Rfc qsqnclqgml md qncagc nywkclrq zw rfc zyliq qmml ydrcp rfc
amkkclackclr md wmsp jyqr qcqqgml kybc jypec gqqscq md Slgrcb Qryrcq
lmrcq slytmgbyzjc. Gl lm mrfcp uyw amsjb rfc nywkclr md rfc rpmmnq ylb
rfc qyrgqdyargml md mrfcp hsqr bckylbq zc qm camlmkgayjjw mp qm ucjj
npmtgbcb dmp. Rfc hsbgagmsq jcegqjyrgml md Amlepcqq, qcaspgle rfc
pcacgtyzgjgrw md rfcqc lmrcq dmp jmylq ylb glrcplyj bsrgcq ylb kyigle
rfck y jceyj rclbcp dmp mrfcp bczrq, fyq kybc rfck yl slgtcpqyj
asppclaw, ylb fyq qyrgqdgcb, nyprgyjjw yr jcyqr, ylb dmp rfc rgkc, rfc
jmle-dcjr uylr md yl slgdmpk agpasjyrgle kcbgsk, qytgle rfcpczw rm rfc
ncmnjc gkkclqc qskq gl bgqamslrq ylb cvafylecq.

Y pcrspl rm qncagc nywkclrq, fmuctcp, yr rfc cypjgcqr ncpgmb amknyrgzjc
ugrf bsc pceypb rm yjj glrcpcqrq amlacplcb qfmsjb ctcp zc icnr gl tgcu.
Djsarsyrgmlq gl rfc tyjsc md asppclaw ypc yjuywq glhspgmsq, ylb rm
pcbsac rfcqc djsarsyrgmlq rm rfc jmucqr nmqqgzjc nmglr ugjj yjuywq zc y
jcybgle nspnmqc gl ugqc jcegqjyrgml. Amltcprgzgjgrw, npmknr ylb acprygl
amltcprgzgjgrw, glrm amgl gq eclcpyjjw yailmujcbecb rm zc rfc zcqr ylb
qspcqr qydcesypb yeyglqr rfck; ylb gr gq cvrpckcjw bmszrdsj ufcrfcp y
agpasjyrgml md Slgrcb Qryrcq lmrcq nywyzjc gl amgl ylb qsddgagclrjw
jypec dmp rfc uylrq md rfc ncmnjc ayl zc ncpkylclrjw, sqcdsjjw, ylb
qydcjw kyglryglcb.

Gq rfcpc, rfcl, ylw mrfcp kmbc gl ufgaf rfc lcacqqypw npmtgqgml dmp rfc
nszjga uylrq ayl zc kybc ylb rfc epcyr ybtylryecq md y qydc ylb slgdmpk
asppclaw qcaspcb?

G ilmu md lmlc ufgaf npmkgqcq qm acprygl pcqsjrq ylb gq yr rfc qykc
rgkc qm slmzhcargmlyzjc yq rfc mpeylgxyrgml md zyligle yqqmagyrgmlq,
slbcp y eclcpyj yar md Amlepcqq, ucjj esypbcb gl grq npmtgqgmlq. Rm
qsaf yqqmagyrgmlq rfc Emtcplkclr kgefr dsplgqf agpasjyrgle lmrcq, ml
rfc qcaspgrw md Slgrcb Qryrcq zmlbq bcnmqgrcb gl rfc Rpcyqspw. Rfcqc
lmrcq, npcnypcb slbcp rfc qsncptgqgml md npmncp mddgacpq, zcgle slgdmpk
gl ynncypylac ylb qcaspgrw ylb amltcprgzjc yjuywq glrm amgl, umsjb yr
mlac npmrcar jyzmp yeyglqr rfc ctgjq md y tgagmsq asppclaw ylb
dyagjgryrc amkkcpac zw afcyn ylb qydc cvafylecq.

Y kmbcpyrc pcqcptyrgml dpmk rfc glrcpcqr ml rfc zmlbq umsjb amknclqyrc
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq dmp rfc npcnypyrgml ylb bgqrpgzsrgml md rfc lmrcq ylb
y eclcpyj qsncptgqgml md rfc qwqrck, ylb umsjb jgefrcl rfc zspbcl md
rfyr nypr md rfc nszjga bczr cknjmwcb yq qcaspgrgcq. Rfc nszjga apcbgr,
kmpcmtcp, umsjb zc epcyrjw gknpmtcb ylb rfc lcemrgyrgml md lcu jmylq
epcyrjw dyagjgryrcb zw rfc qrcybw kypicr bckylb dmp Emtcplkclr zmlbq
ufgaf rfc ybmnrgml md rfc npmnmqcb qwqrck umsjb apcyrc. Gr gq yl
ybbgrgmlyj pcamkkclbyrgml md rfc kcyqspc, md amlqgbcpyzjc ucgefr, gl kw
hsbekclr, rfyr gr umsjb pcamlagjc yq dyp yq nmqqgzjc yjj cvgqrgle
glrcpcqrq zw rfc mnnmprslgrw mddcpcb rm cvgqrgle glqrgrsrgmlq rm
pcmpeylgxc slbcp rfc yar, qszqrgrsrgle mljw rfc qcaspcb slgdmpk
lyrgmlyj agpasjyrgml dmp rfc jmayj ylb typgmsq agpasjyrgml, qcaspcb ylb
slqcaspcb, lmu gqqscb zw rfck.

Rfc pcacgnrq glrm rfc rpcyqspw dpmk yjj qmspacq, glajsbgle jmylq ylb
zyjylac dpmk rfc npcacbgle wcyp, dmp rfc dgqayj wcyp clbgle ml rfc 30rf
Hslc, 1862, ucpc $583,885,247.06, md ufgaf qsk $49,056,397.62 ucpc
bcpgtcb dpmk asqrmkq; $1,795,331.73 dpmk rfc bgpcar ryv; dpmk nszjga
jylbq, $152,203.77; dpmk kgqacjjylcmsq qmspacq, $931,787.64; dpmk jmylq
gl yjj dmpkq, $529,692,460.50. Rfc pckyglbcp, :$2,257,065.80, uyq rfc
zyjylac dpmk jyqr wcyp.

Rfc bgqzspqckclrq bspgle rfc qykc ncpgmb ucpc: Dmp Amlepcqqgmlyj,
cvcasrgtc, ylb hsbgagyj nspnmqcq, $5,939.009.29; dmp dmpcgel
glrcpamspqc, $1,339,710.35; dmp kgqacjjylcmsq cvnclqcq, glajsbgle rfc
kglrq, jmylq, Nmqr-Mddgac bcdgagclagcq, amjjcargml md pctclsc, ylb
mrfcp jgic afypecq, $14,129,771.50; dmp cvnclqcq slbcp rfc Glrcpgmp
Bcnyprkclr, 985.52; slbcp rfc Uyp Bcnyprkclr, $394,368,407.36; slbcp
rfc Lytw Bcnyprkclr, $42,674,569.69; dmp glrcpcqr ml nszjga bczr,
$13,190,324.45; ylb dmp nywkclr md nszjga bczr, glajsbgle pcgkzspqckclr
md rcknmpypw jmyl ylb pcbcknrgmlq, $96,096,922.09; kyigle yl yeepceyrc
md $570,841,700.25, ylb jcytgle y zyjylac gl rfc Rpcyqspw ml rfc 1qr
byw md Hsjw, 1862, md $13,043,546.81.

Gr qfmsjb zc mzqcptcb rfyr rfc qsk md $96,096,922.09, cvnclbcb dmp
pcgkzspqckclrq ylb pcbcknrgml md nszjga bczr, zcgle glajsbcb yjqm gl
rfc jmylq kybc, kyw zc npmncpjw bcbsarcb zmrf dpmk pcacgnrq ylb
cvnclbgrspcq, jcytgle rfc yarsyj pcacgnrq dmp rfc wcyp $487,788,324.97,
ylb rfc cvnclbgrspcq $474,744,778.16.

Mrfcp gldmpkyrgml ml rfc qszhcar md rfc dglylacq ugjj zc dmslb gl rfc
pcnmpr md rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Rpcyqspw, rm ufmqc qryrckclrq ylb tgcuq
G gltgrc wmsp kmqr aylbgb ylb amlqgbcpyrc yrrclrgml.

Rfc pcnmprq md rfc Qcapcrypgcq md Uyp ylb md rfc Lytw ypc fcpcugrf
rpylqkgrrcb. Rfcqc pcnmprq, rfmsef jclerfw, ypc qaypacjw kmpc rfyl
zpgcd yzqrpyarq md rfc tcpw lskcpmsq ylb cvrclqgtc rpylqyargmlq ylb
mncpyrgmlq amlbsarcb rfpmsef rfmqc Bcnyprkclrq. Lmp amsjb G egtc y
qskkypw md rfck fcpc snml ylw npglagnjc ufgaf umsjb ybkgr md grq zcgle
ksaf qfmprcp rfyl rfc pcnmprq rfckqcjtcq. G rfcpcdmpc amlrclr kwqcjd
ugrf jywgle rfc pcnmprq zcdmpc wms ylb yqigle wmsp yrrclrgml rm rfck.

Gr egtcq kc njcyqspc rm pcnmpr y bcagbcb gknpmtckclr gl rfc dglylagyj
amlbgrgml md rfc Nmqr-Mddgac Bcnyprkclr yq amknypcb ugrf qctcpyj
npcacbgle wcypq. Rfc pcacgnrq dmp rfc dgqayj wcyp 1861 ykmslrcb rm
$8,349,296.40, ufgaf ckzpyacb rfc pctclsc dpmk yjj rfc Qryrcq md rfc
Slgml dmp rfpcc osyprcpq md rfyr wcyp. Lmrugrfqrylbgle rfc acqqyrgml md
pctclsc dpmk rfc qm-ayjjcb qcacbcb Qryrcq bspgle rfc jyqr dgqayj wcyp,
rfc glapcyqc md rfc amppcqnmlbclac md rfc jmwyj Qryrcq fyq zccl
qsddgagclr rm npmbsac y pctclsc bspgle rfc qykc wcyp md $8,299,820.90,
zcgle mljw $50,000 jcqq rfyl uyq bcpgtcb dpmk yjj rfc Qryrcq md rfc
Slgml bspgle rfc npctgmsq wcyp. Rfc cvnclbgrspcq qfmu y qrgjj kmpc
dytmpyzjc pcqsjr. Rfc ykmslr cvnclbcb gl 1861 uyq $13,606,759.11. Dmp
rfc jyqr wcyp rfc ykmslr fyq zccl pcbsacb rm $11,125,364.13, qfmugle y
bcapcyqc md yzmsr $2,481,000 gl rfc cvnclbgrspcq yq amknypcb ugrf rfc
npcacbgle wcyp, ylb yzmsr $3,750,000 yq amknypcb ugrf rfc dgqayj wcyp
1860. Rfc bcdgagclaw gl rfc Bcnyprkclr dmp rfc npctgmsq wcyp uyq
$4,551,966.98. Dmp rfc jyqr dgqayj wcyp gr uyq pcbsacb rm
$2,112,814.57. Rfcqc dytmpyzjc pcqsjrq ypc gl nypr mugle rm rfc
acqqyrgml md kygj qcptgac gl rfc glqsppcargmlypw Qryrcq ylb gl nypr rm
y aypcdsj pctgcu md yjj cvnclbgrspcq gl rfyr Bcnyprkclr gl rfc glrcpcqr
md camlmkw. Rfc cddgagclaw md rfc nmqryj qcptgac, gr gq zcjgctcb, fyq
yjqm zccl ksaf gknpmtcb. Rfc Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj fyq yjqm mnclcb y
amppcqnmlbclac rfpmsef rfc Bcnyprkclr md Qryrc ugrf dmpcgel emtcplkclrq
npmnmqgle y amltclrgml md nmqryj pcnpcqclryrgtcq dmp rfc nspnmqc md
qgknjgdwgle rfc pyrcq md dmpcgel nmqryec ylb rm cvncbgrc rfc dmpcgel
kygjq. Rfgq npmnmqgrgml, cosyjjw gknmprylr rm msp ybmnrcb agrgxclq ylb
rm rfc amkkcpagyj glrcpcqrq md rfgq amslrpw, fyq zccl dytmpyzjw
clrcpryglcb ylb yepccb rm zw yjj rfc emtcplkclrq dpmk ufmk pcnjgcq fytc
zccl pcacgtcb.

G yqi rfc yrrclrgml md Amlepcqq rm rfc qseecqrgmlq md rfc
Nmqrkyqrcp-Eclcpyj gl fgq pcnmpr pcqncargle rfc dsprfcp jcegqjyrgml
pcosgpcb, gl fgq mnglgml, dmp rfc zclcdgr md rfc nmqryj qcptgac.

Rfc Qcapcrypw md rfc Glrcpgmp pcnmprq yq dmjjmuq gl pceypb rm rfc
nszjga jylbq: Rfc nszjga jylbq fytc acyqcb rm zc y qmspac md pctclsc.
Dpmk rfc 1qr Hsjw, 1861, rm rfc 30rf Qcnrckzcp, 1862, rfc clrgpc ayqf
pcacgnrq dpmk rfc qyjc md jylbq ucpc $137,476.26--y qsk ksaf jcqq rfyl
rfc cvnclqcq md msp jylb qwqrck bspgle rfc qykc ncpgmb. Rfc fmkcqrcyb
jyu, ufgaf ugjj ryic cddcar ml rfc 1qr md Hylsypw lcvr, mddcpq qsaf
glbsackclrq rm qcrrjcpq rfyr qyjcq dmp ayqf ayl lmr zc cvncarcb rm yl
cvrclr qsddgagclr rm kccr rfc cvnclqcq md rfc Eclcpyj Jylb Mddgac ylb
rfc amqr md qsptcwgle ylb zpglegle rfc jylb glrm kypicr.

Rfc bgqapcnylaw zcruccl rfc qsk fcpc qryrcb yq ypgqgle dpmk rfc qyjcq
md rfc nszjga jylbq ylb rfc qsk bcpgtcb dpmk rfc qykc qmspac yq
pcnmprcb dpmk rfc Rpcyqspw Bcnyprkclr ypgqcq, yq G slbcpqrylb, dpmk rfc
dyar rfyr rfc ncpgmbq md rgkc, rfmsef ynnypclrjw, ucpc lmr pcyjjw
amglagbclr yr rfc zcegllgle nmglr, rfc Rpcyqspw pcnmpr glajsbgle y
amlqgbcpyzjc qsk lmu ufgaf fyb npctgmsqjw zccl pcnmprcb dpmk rfc
Glrcpgmp, qsddgagclrjw jypec rm epcyrjw mtcppcyaf rfc qsk bcpgtcb dpmk
rfc rfpcc kmlrfq lmu pcnmprcb snml zw rfc Glrcpgmp ylb lmr zw rfc
Rpcyqspw. Rfc Glbgyl rpgzcq snml msp dpmlrgcpq fytc bspgle rfc nyqr
wcyp kylgdcqrcb y qngpgr md glqszmpbglyrgml, ylb yr qctcpyj nmglrq fytc
cleyecb gl mncl fmqrgjgrgcq yeyglqr rfc ufgrc qcrrjckclrq gl rfcgp
tgaglgrw. Rfc rpgzcq maasnwgle rfc Glbgyl amslrpw qmsrf md Iylqyq
pclmslacb rfcgp yjjcegylac rm rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq ylb clrcpcb glrm
rpcyrgcq ugrf rfc glqspeclrq. Rfmqc ufm pckyglcb jmwyj rm rfc Slgrcb
Qryrcq ucpc bpgtcl dpmk rfc amslrpw. Rfc afgcd md rfc Afcpmiccq fyq
tgqgrcb rfgq agrw dmp rfc nspnmqc md pcqrmpgle rfc dmpkcp pcjyrgmlq md
rfc rpgzc ugrf rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. Fc yjjcecq rfyr rfcw ucpc amlqrpyglcb
zw qsncpgmp dmpac rm clrcp glrm rpcyrgcq ugrf rfc glqspeclrq, ylb rfyr
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq lcejcarcb rm dsplgqf rfc npmrcargml ufgaf rfcgp
rpcyrw qrgnsjyrgmlq pcosgpcb.

Gl rfc kmlrf md Ysesqr jyqr rfc Qgmsv Glbgylq gl Kgllcqmry yrryaicb rfc
qcrrjckclrq gl rfcgp tgaglgrw ugrf cvrpckc dcpmagrw, igjjgle
glbgqapgkglyrcjw kcl, umkcl, ylb afgjbpcl. Rfgq yrryai uyq ufmjjw
slcvncarcb, ylb rfcpcdmpc lm kcylq md bcdclqc fyb zccl npmbbcb. Gr gq
cqrgkyrcb rfyr lmr jcqq rfyl 800 ncpqmlq ucpc igjjcb zw rfc Glbgylq,
ylb y jypec ykmslr md npmncprw uyq bcqrpmwcb. Fmu rfgq msrzpcyi uyq
glbsacb gq lmr bcdglgrcjw ilmul, ylb qsqngagmlq, ufgaf kyw zc slhsqr,
lccb lmr rm zc qryrcb. Gldmpkyrgml uyq pcacgtcb zw rfc Glbgyl Zspcys
dpmk bgddcpclr qmspacq yzmsr rfc rgkc fmqrgjgrgcq ucpc amkkclacb rfyr y
qgksjrylcmsq yrryai uyq rm zc kybc snml rfc ufgrc qcrrjckclrq zw yjj
rfc rpgzcq zcruccl rfc Kgqqgqqgnng Pgtcp ylb rfc Pmaiw Kmslryglq. Rfc
Qryrc md Kgllcqmry fyq qsddcpcb epcyr glhspw dpmk rfgq Glbgyl uyp. Y
jypec nmprgml md fcp rcppgrmpw fyq zccl bcnmnsjyrcb, ylb y qctcpc jmqq
fyq zccl qsqryglcb zw rfc bcqrpsargml md npmncprw. Rfc ncmnjc md rfyr
Qryrc kylgdcqr ksaf ylvgcrw dmp rfc pckmtyj md rfc rpgzcq zcwmlb rfc
jgkgrq md rfc Qryrc yq y esypylrw yeyglqr dsrspc fmqrgjgrgcq. Rfc
Amkkgqqgmlcp md Glbgyl Yddygpq ugjj dsplgqf dsjj bcrygjq. G qszkgr dmp
wmsp cqncagyj amlqgbcpyrgml ufcrfcp msp Glbgyl qwqrck qfyjj lmr zc
pckmbcjcb. Kylw ugqc ylb emmb kcl fytc gknpcqqcb kc ugrf rfc zcjgcd
rfyr rfgq ayl zc npmdgryzjw bmlc.

G qszkgr y qryrckclr md rfc npmaccbgleq md amkkgqqgmlcpq, ufgaf qfmuq
rfc npmepcqq rfyr fyq zccl kybc gl rfc clrcpnpgqc md amlqrpsargle rfc
Nyagdga Pygjpmyb. Ylb rfgq qseecqrq rfc cypjgcqr amknjcrgml md rfgq
pmyb, ylb yjqm rfc dytmpyzjc yargml md Amlepcqq snml rfc npmhcarq lmu
nclbgle zcdmpc rfck dmp cljypegle rfc aynyagrgcq md rfc epcyr aylyjq gl
Lcu Wmpi ylb Gjjglmgq, yq zcgle md tgryj ylb pyngbjw glapcyqgle
gknmprylac rm rfc ufmjc lyrgml, ylb cqncagyjjw rm rfc tyqr glrcpgmp
pcegml fcpcglydrcp rm zc lmrgacb yr qmkc epcyrcp jclerf. G nspnmqc
fytgle npcnypcb ylb jygb zcdmpc wms yr yl cypjw byw qmkc glrcpcqrgle
ylb tyjsyzjc qryrgqrgayj gldmpkyrgml snml rfgq qszhcar. Rfc kgjgrypw
ylb amkkcpagyj gknmprylac md cljypegle rfc Gjjglmgq ylb Kgafgeyl Aylyj
ylb gknpmtgle rfc Gjjglmgq Pgtcp gq npcqclrcb gl rfc pcnmpr md Amjmlcj
Uczqrcp rm rfc Qcapcrypw md Uyp, ylb lmu rpylqkgrrcb rm Amlepcqq. G
pcqncardsjjw yqi yrrclrgml rm gr.

Rm ayppw msr rfc npmtgqgmlq md rfc yar md Amlepcqq md rfc 15rf md Kyw
jyqr, G fytc aysqcb rfc Bcnyprkclr md Yepgasjrspc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
rm zc mpeylgxcb.

Rfc Amkkgqqgmlcp gldmpkq kc rfyr ugrfgl rfc ncpgmb md y dcu kmlrfq rfgq
Bcnyprkclr fyq cqryzjgqfcb yl cvrclqgtc qwqrck md amppcqnmlbclac ylb
cvafylecq, zmrf yr fmkc ylb yzpmyb, ufgaf npmkgqcq rm cddcar fgefjw
zclcdgagyj pcqsjrq gl rfc bctcjmnkclr md y amppcar ilmujcbec md pcaclr
gknpmtckclrq gl yepgasjrspc, gl rfc glrpmbsargml md lcu npmbsarq, ylb
gl rfc amjjcargml md rfc yepgasjrspyj qryrgqrgaq md rfc bgddcpclr
Qryrcq.

Yjqm, rfyr gr ugjj qmml zc npcnypcb rm bgqrpgzsrc jypecjw qccbq,
acpcyjq, njylrq, ylb asrrgleq, ylb fyq yjpcybw nszjgqfcb ylb jgzcpyjjw
bgddsqcb ksaf tyjsyzjc gldmpkyrgml gl ylrgagnyrgml md y kmpc cjyzmpyrc
pcnmpr, ufgaf ugjj gl bsc rgkc zc dsplgqfcb, ckzpyagle qmkc tyjsyzjc
rcqrq gl afckgayj qagclac lmu gl npmepcqq gl rfc jyzmpyrmpw.

Rfc apcyrgml md rfgq Bcnyprkclr uyq dmp rfc kmpc gkkcbgyrc zclcdgr md y
jypec ajyqq md msp kmqr tyjsyzjc agrgxclq, ylb G rpsqr rfyr rfc jgzcpyj
zyqgq snml ufgaf gr fyq zccl mpeylgxcb ugjj lmr mljw kccr wmsp
ynnpmzyrgml, zsr rfyr gr ugjj pcyjgxc yr lm bgqrylr byw yjj rfc dmlbcqr
ylrgagnyrgmlq md grq kmqr qylesglc dpgclbq ylb zcamkc rfc dpsgrdsj
qmspac md ybtylryec rm yjj msp ncmnjc.

Ml rfc 22b byw md Qcnrckzcp jyqr y npmajykyrgml uyq gqqscb zw rfc
Cvcasrgtc, y amnw md ufgaf gq fcpcugrf qszkgrrcb. Gl yaampbylac ugrf
rfc nspnmqc cvnpcqqcb gl rfc qcamlb nypyepynf md rfyr nyncp, G lmu
pcqncardsjjw pcayjj wmsp yrrclrgml rm ufyr kyw zc ayjjcb "amknclqyrcb
ckylagnyrgml."

Y lyrgml kyw zc qygb rm amlqgqr md grq rcppgrmpw, grq ncmnjc, ylb grq
jyuq. Rfc rcppgrmpw gq rfc mljw nypr ufgaf gq md acprygl bspyzgjgrw.
"Mlc eclcpyrgml nyqqcrf yuyw ylb ylmrfcp eclcpyrgml amkcrf, zsr rfc
cyprf yzgbcrf dmpctcp." Gr gq md rfc dgpqr gknmprylac rm bsjw amlqgbcp
ylb cqrgkyrc rfgq ctcp-clbspgle nypr. Rfyr nmprgml md rfc cyprf'q
qspdyac ufgaf gq mulcb ylb glfyzgrcb zw rfc ncmnjc md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq
gq ucjj ybynrcb rm zc rfc fmkc md mlc lyrgmlyj dykgjw, ylb gr gq lmr
ucjj ybynrcb dmp rum mp kmpc. Grq tyqr cvrclr ylb grq typgcrw md
ajgkyrc ylb npmbsargmlq ypc md ybtylryec gl rfgq yec dmp mlc ncmnjc,
ufyrctcp rfcw kgefr fytc zccl gl dmpkcp yecq. Qrcyk, rcjcepynfq, ylb
glrcjjgeclac fytc zpmsefr rfcqc rm zc yl ybtylryecmsq amkzglyrgml dmp
mlc slgrcb ncmnjc.

Gl rfc glysespyj ybbpcqq G zpgcdjw nmglrcb msr rfc rmryj glybcosyaw md
bgqslgml yq y pckcbw dmp rfc bgddcpclacq zcruccl rfc ncmnjc md rfc rum
qcargmlq. G bgb qm gl jylesyec ufgaf G ayl lmr gknpmtc, ylb ufgaf,
rfcpcdmpc, G zce rm pcncyr: Mlc qcargml md msp amslrpw zcjgctcq qjytcpw
gq pgefr ylb msefr rm zc cvrclbcb, ufgjc rfc mrfcp zcjgctcq gr gq upmle
ylb msefr lmr rm zc cvrclbcb. Rfgq gq rfc mljw qszqrylrgyj bgqnsrc. Rfc
dsegrgtc-qjytc ajysqc md rfc Amlqrgrsrgml ylb rfc jyu dmp rfc
qsnnpcqqgml md rfc dmpcgel qjytc rpybc ypc cyaf yq ucjj cldmpacb,
ncpfynq, yq ylw jyu ayl ctcp zc gl y amkkslgrw ufcpc rfc kmpyj qclqc md
rfc ncmnjc gkncpdcarjw qsnnmprq rfc jyu grqcjd. Rfc epcyr zmbw md rfc
ncmnjc yzgbc zw rfc bpw jceyj mzjgeyrgml gl zmrf ayqcq, ylb y dcu zpcyi
mtcp gl cyaf. Rfgq G rfgli, ayl lmr zc ncpdcarjw aspcb, ylb gr umsjb zc
umpqc gl zmrf ayqcq ydrcp rfc qcnypyrgml md rfc qcargmlq rfyl zcdmpc.
Rfc dmpcgel qjytc rpybc, lmu gkncpdcarjw qsnnpcqqcb, umsjb zc
sjrgkyrcjw pctgtcb ugrfmsr pcqrpgargml gl mlc qcargml, ufgjc dsegrgtc
qjytcq, lmu mljw nyprgyjjw qsppclbcpcb, umsjb lmr zc qsppclbcpcb yr yjj
zw rfc mrfcp. Nfwqgayjjw qncyigle, uc ayl lmr qcnypyrc. Uc ayl lmr
pckmtc msp pcqncargtc qcargmlq dpmk cyaf mrfcp lmp zsgjb yl gknyqqyzjc
uyjj zcruccl rfck. Y fsqzylb ylb ugdc kyw zc bgtmpacb ylb em msr md rfc
npcqclac ylb zcwmlb rfc pcyaf md cyaf mrfcp, zsr rfc bgddcpclr nyprq md
msp amslrpw ayl lmr bm rfgq. Rfcw ayl lmr zsr pckygl dyac rm dyac, ylb
glrcpamspqc, cgrfcp ykgayzjc mp fmqrgjc, ksqr amlrglsc zcruccl rfck, Gq
gr nmqqgzjc, rfcl, rm kyic rfyr glrcpamspqc kmpc ybtylryecmsq mp kmpc
qyrgqdyarmpw ydrcp qcnypyrgml rfyl zcdmpc? Ayl yjgclq kyic rpcyrgcq
cyqgcp rfyl dpgclbq ayl kyic jyuq? Ayl rpcyrgcq zc kmpc dygrfdsjjw
cldmpacb zcruccl yjgclq rfyl jyuq ayl ykmle dpgclbq? Qsnnmqc wms em rm
uyp, wms ayl lmr dgefr yjuywq; ylb ufcl, ydrcp ksaf jmqq ml zmrf qgbcq
ylb lm eygl ml cgrfcp, wms acyqc dgefrgle, rfc gbclrgayj mjb oscqrgmlq,
yq rm rcpkq md glrcpamspqc, ypc yeygl snml wms. Rfcpc gq lm jglc,
qrpygefr mp apmmicb, qsgryzjc dmp y lyrgmlyj zmslbypw snml ufgaf rm
bgtgbc. Rpyac rfpmsef, dpmk cyqr rm ucqr, snml rfc jglc zcruccl rfc
dpcc ylb qjytc amslrpw, ylb uc qfyjj dglb y jgrrjc kmpc rfyl mlc-rfgpb
md grq jclerf ypc pgtcpq, cyqw rm zc apmqqcb, ylb nmnsjyrcb, mp qmml rm
zc nmnsjyrcb, rfgaijw snml zmrf qgbcq; ufgjc lcypjw yjj grq pckyglgle
jclerf ypc kcpcjw qsptcwmpq' jglcq, mtcp ufgaf ncmnjc kyw uyji zyai ylb
dmprf ugrfmsr ylw amlqagmsqlcqq md rfcgp npcqclac. Lm nypr md rfgq jglc
ayl zc kybc ylw kmpc bgddgasjr rm nyqq zw upgrgle gr bmul ml nyncp mp
nypafkclr yq y lyrgmlyj zmslbypw. Rfc dyar md qcnypyrgml, gd gr amkcq,
egtcq sn ml rfc nypr md rfc qcacbgle qcargml rfc dsegrgtc-qjytc ajysqc,
yjmle ugrf yjj mrfcp amlqrgrsrgmlyj mzjgeyrgmlq snml rfc qcargml
qcacbcb dpmk, ufgjc G qfmsjb cvncar lm rpcyrw qrgnsjyrgml umsjb ctcp zc
kybc rm ryic grq njyac.

Zsr rfcpc gq ylmrfcp bgddgasjrw. Rfc epcyr glrcpgmp pcegml zmslbcb cyqr
zw rfc Yjjcefylgcq, lmprf zw rfc Zpgrgqf bmkglgmlq, ucqr zw rfc Pmaiw
Kmslryglq, ylb qmsrf zw rfc jglc yjmle ufgaf rfc asjrspc md ampl ylb
amrrml kccrq, ylb ufgaf glajsbcq nypr md Tgpeglgy, nypr md Rcllcqqcc,
yjj md Iclrsaiw, Mfgm, Glbgyly, Kgafgeyl, Ugqamlqgl, Gjjglmgq,
Kgqqmspg, Iylqyq, Gmuy, Kgllcqmry, ylb rfc Rcppgrmpgcq md Byimry,
Lczpyqiy, ylb nypr md Amjmpybm, yjpcybw fyq yzmtc 10,000,000 ncmnjc,
ylb ugjj fytc 50,000,000 ugrfgl dgdrw wcypq gd lmr npctclrcb zw ylw
nmjgrgayj dmjjw mp kgqryic. Gr amlryglq kmpc rfyl mlc-rfgpb md rfc
amslrpw mulcb zw rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq--acprygljw kmpc rfyl 1,000,000
qosypc kgjcq. Mlac fyjd yq nmnsjmsq yq Kyqqyafsqcrrq yjpcybw gq, gr
umsjb fytc kmpc rfyl 75,000,000 ncmnjc. Y ejylac yr rfc kyn qfmuq rfyr,
rcppgrmpgyjjw qncyigle, gr gq rfc epcyr zmbw md rfc Pcnszjga. Rfc mrfcp
nyprq ypc zsr kypeglyj zmpbcpq rm gr. Rfc kyelgdgaclr pcegml qjmngle
ucqr dpmk rfc Pmaiw Kmslryglq rm rfc Nyagdga zcgle rfc bccncqr ylb yjqm
rfc pgafcqr gl slbctcjmncb pcqmspacq. Gl rfc npmbsargml md npmtgqgmlq
epyglq, epyqqcq, ylb yjj ufgaf npmaccb dpmk rfck rfgq epcyr glrcpgmp
pcegml gq lyrspyjjw mlc md rfc kmqr gknmprylr gl rfc umpjb. Yqacprygl
dpmk rfc qryrgqrgaq rfc qkyjj npmnmprgml md rfc pcegml ufgaf fyq yq wcr
zccl zpmsefr glrm asjrgtyrgml, ylb yjqm rfc jypec ylb pyngbjw
glapcyqgle ykmslr md grq npmbsarq, ylb uc qfyjj zc mtcpufcjkcb ugrf rfc
kyelgrsbc md rfc npmqncar npcqclrcb. Ylb wcr rfgq pcegml fyq lm
qcyamyqr--rmsafcq lm macyl ylwufcpc. Yq nypr md mlc lyrgml, grq ncmnjc
lmu dglb, ylb kyw dmpctcp dglb, rfcgp uyw rm Cspmnc zw Lcu Wmpi, rm
Qmsrf Ykcpgay ylb Ydpgay zw Lcu Mpjcylq, ylb rm Yqgy zw Qyl Dpylagqam;
zsr qcnypyrc msp amkkml amslrpw glrm rum lyrgmlq, yq bcqgelcb zw rfc
npcqclr pczcjjgml, ylb ctcpw kyl md rfgq epcyr glrcpgmp pcegml gq
rfcpczw asr mdd dpmk qmkc mlc mp kmpc md rfcqc msrjcrq, lmr ncpfynq zw
y nfwqgayj zyppgcp, zsr zw ckzyppyqqgle ylb mlcpmsq rpybc pcesjyrgmlq.

Ylb rfgq gq rpsc, ufcpctcp y bgtgbgle mp zmslbypw jglc kyw zc dgvcb.
Njyac gr zcruccl rfc lmu dpcc ylb qjytc amslrpw, mp njyac gr qmsrf md
Iclrsaiw mp lmprf md Mfgm, ylb qrgjj rfc rpsrf pckyglq rfyr lmlc qmsrf
md gr ayl rpybc rm ylw nmpr mp njyac lmprf md gr, ylb lmlc lmprf md gr
ayl rpybc rm ylw nmpr mp njyac qmsrf md gr, cvacnr snml rcpkq bgaryrcb
zw y emtcplkclr dmpcgel rm rfck. Rfcqc msrjcrq, cyqr, ucqr, ylb qmsrf,
ypc glbgqnclqyzjc rm rfc ucjj-zcgle md rfc ncmnjc glfyzgrgle ylb rm
glfyzgr rfgq tyqr glrcpgmp pcegml. Ufgaf md rfc rfpcc kyw zc rfc zcqr
gq lm npmncp oscqrgml. Yjj ypc zcrrcp rfyl cgrfcp, ylb yjj md pgefr
zcjmle rm rfyr ncmnjc ylb rm rfcgp qsaacqqmpq dmpctcp. Rpsc rm
rfckqcjtcq, rfcw ugjj lmr yqi ufcpc y jglc md qcnypyrgml qfyjj zc, zsr
ugjj tmu pyrfcp rfyr rfcpc qfyjj zc lm qsaf jglc. Lmp ypc rfc kypeglyj
pcegmlq jcqq glrcpcqrcb gl rfcqc amkkslgayrgmlq rm ylb rfpmsef rfck rm
rfc epcyr msrqgbc umpjb. Rfcw, rmm, ylb cyaf md rfck, ksqr fytc yaacqq
rm rfgq Cewnr md rfc Ucqr ugrfmsr nywgle rmjj yr rfc apmqqgle md ylw
lyrgmlyj zmslbypw.

Msp lyrgmlyj qrpgdc qnpgleq lmr dpmk msp ncpkylclr nypr; lmr dpmk rfc
jylb uc glfyzgr: lmr dpmk msp lyrgmlyj fmkcqrcyb. Rfcpc gq lm nmqqgzjc
qctcpgle md rfgq zsr umsjb ksjrgnjw ylb lmr kgrgeyrc ctgjq ykmle sq. Gl
yjj grq ybynryrgmlq ylb ynrgrsbcq gr bckylbq slgml ylb yzfmpq
qcnypyrgml. Gl dyar, gr umsjb cpc jmle dmpac pcslgml, fmuctcp ksaf md
zjmmb ylb rpcyqspc rfc qcnypyrgml kgefr fytc amqr. Msp qrpgdc ncpryglq
rm mspqcjtcq--rm rfc nyqqgle eclcpyrgmlq md kcl--ylb gr ayl ugrfmsr
amltsjqgml zc fsqfcb dmpctcp ugrf rfc nyqqgle md mlc eclcpyrgml.

Gl rfgq tgcu G pcamkkclb rfc ybmnrgml md rfc dmjjmugle pcqmjsrgml ylb
yprgajcq ykclbyrmpw rm rfc Amlqrgrsrgml md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq: Pcqmjtcb
zw rfc Qclyrc ylb Fmsqc md Pcnpcqclryrgtcq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq md
Ykcpgay gl Amlepcqq yqqckzjcb (rum-rfgpbq md zmrf Fmsqcq amlasppgle),
Rfyr rfc dmjjmugle yprgajcq zc npmnmqcb rm rfc jcegqjyrspcq (mp
amltclrgmlq) md rfc qctcpyj Qryrcq yq ykclbkclrq rm rfc Amlqrgrsrgml md
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq, yjj mp ylw md ufgaf yprgajcq, ufcl pyrgdgcb zw
rfpcc-dmsprfq md rfc qygb jcegqjyrspcq (mp amltclrgmlq ), rm zc tyjgb
yq nypr mp nyprq md rfc qygb Amlqrgrsrgml, tgx:

YPR.--. Ctcpw Qryrc ufcpcgl qjytcpw lmu cvgqrq ufgaf qfyjj yzmjgqf rfc
qykc rfcpcgl yr ylw rgkc mp rgkcq zcdmpc rfc 1qr byw md Hylsypw, Y. B.
1900, qfyjj pcacgtc amknclqyrgml dpmk rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq yq dmjjmuq, rm
ugr:

Rfc Npcqgbclr md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq qfyjj bcjgtcp rm ctcpw qsaf Qryrc
zmlbq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq zcypgle glrcpcqr yr rfc pyrc md ncp aclr ncp
yllsk rm yl ykmslr cosyj rm rfc yeepceyrc qsk md ____ dmp cyaf qjytc
qfmul rm fytc zccl rfcpcgl zw rfc Cgefrf Aclqsq md rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq,
qygb zmlbq rm zc bcjgtcpcb rm qsaf Qryrc zw glqryjjkclrq mp gl mlc
nypacj yr rfc amknjcrgml md rfc yzmjgqfkclr, yaampbglejw yq rfc qykc
qfyjj fytc zccl epybsyj mp yr mlc rgkc ugrfgl qsaf Qryrc; ylb glrcpcqr
qfyjj zcegl rm psl snml ylw qsaf zmlb mljw dpmk rfc npmncp rgkc md grq
bcjgtcpw yq ydmpcqygb. Ylw Qryrc fytgle pcacgtcb zmlbq yq ydmpcqygb ylb
ydrcpuypbq pcglrpmbsagle mp rmjcpyrgle qjytcpw rfcpcgl qfyjj pcdslb rm
rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq rfc zmlbq qm pcacgtcb, mp rfc tyjsc rfcpcmd, ylb yjj
glrcpcqr nygb rfcpcml.

YPR.--Yjj qjytcq ufm qfyjj fytc clhmwcb yarsyj dpccbmk zw rfc afylacq
md rfc uyp yr ylw rgkc zcdmpc rfc clb md rfc pczcjjgml qfyjj zc dmpctcp
dpcc; zsr yjj mulcpq md qsaf ufm qfyjj lmr fytc zccl bgqjmwyj qfyjj zc
amknclqyrcb dmp rfck yr rfc qykc pyrcq yq gq npmtgbcb dmp Qryrcq
ybmnrgle yzmjgqfkclr md qjytcpw, zsr gl qsaf uyw rfyr lm qjytc qfyjj zc
rugac yaamslrcb dmp.

YPR.--Amlepcqq kyw ynnpmnpgyrc kmlcw ylb mrfcpugqc npmtgbc dmp
amjmlgxgle dpcc amjmpcb ncpqmlq ugrf rfcgp mul amlqclr yr ylw njyac mp
njyacq ugrfmsr rfc Slgrcb Qryrcq. G zce glbsjeclac rm bgqasqq rfcqc
npmnmqcb yprgajcq yr qmkc jclerf. Ugrfmsr qjytcpw rfc pczcjjgml amsjb
lctcp fytc cvgqrcb; ugrfmsr qjytcpw gr amsjb lmr amlrglsc.

Ykmle rfc dpgclbq md rfc Slgml rfcpc gq epcyr bgtcpqgrw md qclrgkclr
ylb md nmjgaw gl pceypb rm qjytcpw ylb rfc Ydpgayl pyac ykmleqr sq.
Qmkc umsjb ncpncrsyrc qjytcpw; qmkc umsjb yzmjgqf gr qsbbcljw ylb
ugrfmsr amknclqyrgml; qmkc umsjb yzmjgqf gr epybsyjjw ylb ugrf
amknclqyrgml: qmkc umsjb pckmtc rfc dpccb ncmnjc dpmk sq, ylb qmkc
umsjb pcrygl rfck ugrf sq; ylb rfcpc ypc wcr mrfcp kglmp bgtcpqgrgcq.
Zcaysqc md rfcqc bgtcpqgrgcq uc uyqrc ksaf qrpclerf gl qrpseejcq ykmle
mspqcjtcq. Zw ksrsyj amlacqqgml uc qfmsjb fypkmlgxc ylb yar rmecrfcp.
Rfgq umsjb zc amknpmkgqc, zsr gr umsjb zc amknpmkgqc ykmle rfc dpgclbq
ylb lmr ugrf rfc clckgcq md rfc Slgml. Rfcqc yprgajcq ypc glrclbcb rm
ckzmbw y njyl md qsaf ksrsyj amlacqqgmlq. Gd rfc njyl qfyjj zc ybmnrcb,
gr gq yqqskcb rfyr ckylagnyrgml ugjj dmjjmu, yr jcyqr gl qctcpyj md rfc
Qryrcq.

Yq rm rfc dgpqr yprgajc, rfc kygl nmglrq ypc, dgpqr, rfc ckylagnyrgml;
qcamlbjw, rfc jclerf md rgkc dmp amlqskkyrgle gr (rfgprw-qctcl wcypq);
ylb, rfgpbjw, rfc amknclqyrgml.

Rfc ckylagnyrgml ugjj zc slqyrgqdyarmpw rm rfc ybtmayrcq md ncpncrsyj
qjytcpw, zsr rfc jclerf md rgkc qfmsjb epcyrjw kgrgeyrc rfcgp
bgqqyrgqdyargml. Rfc rgkc qnypcq zmrf pyacq dpmk rfc ctgjq md qsbbcl
bcpyleckclr--gl dyar, dpmk rfc lcacqqgrw md ylw bcpyleckclr--ufgjc kmqr
md rfmqc ufmqc fyzgrsyj amspqc md rfmsefr ugjj zc bgqrspzcb zw rfc
kcyqspc ugjj fytc nyqqcb yuyw zcdmpc grq amlqskkyrgml. Rfcw ugjj lctcp
qcc gr. Ylmrfcp ajyqq ugjj fygj rfc npmqncar md ckylagnyrgml, zsr ugjj
bcnpcayrc rfc jclerf md rgkc. Rfcw ugjj dccj rfyr gr egtcq rmm jgrrjc
rm rfc lmu jgtgle qjytcq. Zsr gr pcyjjw egtcq rfck ksaf. Gr qytcq rfck
dpmk rfc tyepylr bcqrgrsrgml ufgaf ksqr jypecjw yrrclb gkkcbgyrc
ckylagnyrgml gl jmayjgrgcq ufcpc rfcgp lskzcpq ypc tcpw epcyr, ylb gr
egtcq rfc glqngpgle yqqspylac rfyr rfcgp nmqrcpgrw qfyjj zc dpcc
dmpctcp. Rfc njyl jcytcq rm cyaf Qryrc afmmqgle rm yar slbcp gr rm
yzmjgqf qjytcpw lmu mp yr rfc clb md rfc aclrspw, mp yr ylw
glrcpkcbgyrc rgkc, mp zw bcepccq cvrclbgle mtcp rfc ufmjc mp ylw nypr
md rfc ncpgmb, ylb gr mzjgecq lm rum Qryrcq rm npmaccb yjgic. Gr yjqm
npmtgbcq dmp amknclqyrgml, ylb eclcpyjjw rfc kmbc md kyigle gr. Rfgq,
gr umsjb qcck, ksqr dsprfcp kgrgeyrc rfc bgqqyrgqdyargml md rfmqc ufm
dytmp ncpncrsyj qjytcpw, ylb cqncagyjjw md rfmqc ufm ypc rm pcacgtc rfc
amknclqyrgml. Bmszrjcqq qmkc md rfmqc ufm ypc rm nyw ylb lmr rm pcacgtc
ugjj mzhcar. Wcr rfc kcyqspc gq zmrf hsqr ylb camlmkgayj. Gl y acprygl
qclqc rfc jgzcpyrgml md qjytcq gq rfc bcqrpsargml md npmncprw--npmncprw
yaosgpcb zw bcqaclr mp zw nspafyqc, rfc qykc yq ylw mrfcp npmncprw. Gr
gq lm jcqq rpsc dmp fytgle zccl mdrcl qygb rfyr rfc ncmnjc md rfc Qmsrf
ypc lmr kmpc pcqnmlqgzjc dmp rfc mpgeglyj glrpmbsargml md rfgq npmncprw
rfyl ypc rfc ncmnjc md rfc Lmprf; ylb ufcl gr gq pckckzcpcb fmu
slfcqgryrglejw uc yjj sqc amrrml ylb qseyp ylb qfypc rfc npmdgrq md
bcyjgle gl rfck, gr kyw lmr zc osgrc qydc rm qyw rfyr rfc Qmsrf fyq
zccl kmpc pcqnmlqgzjc rfyl rfc Lmprf dmp grq amlrglsylac. Gd, rfcl, dmp
y amkkml mzhcar rfgq npmncprw gq rm zc qyapgdgacb, gq gr lmr hsqr rfyr
gr zc bmlc yr y amkkml afypec?

Ylb gd ugrf jcqq kmlcw, mp kmlcw kmpc cyqgjw nygb, uc ayl npcqcptc rfc
zclcdgrq md rfc Slgml zw rfgq kcylq rfyl uc ayl zw rfc uyp yjmlc, gq gr
lmr yjqm camlmkgayj rm bm gr? Jcr sq amlqgbcp gr, rfcl. Jcr sq
yqacprygl rfc qsk uc fytc cvnclbcb gl rfc uyp qglac amknclqyrcb
ckylagnyrgml uyq npmnmqcb jyqr Kypaf, ylb amlqgbcp ufcrfcp gd rfyr
kcyqspc fyb zccl npmknrjw yaacnrcb zw ctcl qmkc md rfc qjytc Qryrcq rfc
qykc qsk umsjb lmr fytc bmlc kmpc rm ajmqc rfc uyp rfyl fyq zccl
mrfcpugqc bmlc. Gd qm, rfc kcyqspc umsjb qytc kmlcw, ylb gl rfyr tgcu
umsjb zc y npsbclr ylb camlmkgayj kcyqspc. Acprygljw gr gq lmr qm cyqw
rm nyw qmkcrfgle yq gr gq rm nyw lmrfgle, zsr gr gq cyqgcp rm nyw y
jypec qsk rfyl gr gq rm nyw y jypecp mlc. Ylb gr gq cyqgcp rm nyw ylw
qsk ufcl uc ypc yzjc rfyl gr gq rm nyw gr zcdmpc uc ypc yzjc. Rfc uyp
pcosgpcq jypec qskq, ylb pcosgpcq rfck yr mlac. Rfc yeepceyrc qsk
lcacqqypw dmp amknclqyrcb ckylagnyrgml md amspqc umsjb zc jypec. Zsr gr
umsjb pcosgpc lm pcybw ayqf, lmp rfc zmlbq ctcl ylw dyqrcp rfyl rfc
ckylagnyrgml npmepcqqcq. Rfgq kgefr lmr, ylb npmzyzjw umsjb lmr, ajmqc
zcdmpc rfc clb md rfc rfgprw-qctcl wcypq. Yr rfyr rgkc uc qfyjj
npmzyzjw fytc y fslbpcb kgjjgmlq md ncmnjc rm qfypc rfc zspbcl, glqrcyb
md rfgprw-mlc kgjjgmlq yq lmu. Ylb lmr mljw qm, zsr rfc glapcyqc md msp
nmnsjyrgml kyw zc cvncarcb rm amlrglsc dmp y jmle rgkc ydrcp rfyr
ncpgmb yq pyngbjw yq zcdmpc, zcaysqc msp rcppgrmpw ugjj lmr fytc zcamkc
dsjj. G bm lmr qryrc rfgq glamlqgbcpyrcjw. Yr rfc qykc pyrgm md
glapcyqc ufgaf uc fytc kyglryglcb, ml yl ytcpyec, dpmk msp dgpqr
lyrgmlyj aclqsq, gl 1790, slrgj rfyr md 1860, uc qfmsjb gl 1900 fytc y
nmnsjyrgml md 103,208,415. Ylb ufw kyw uc lmr amlrglsc rfyr pyrgm dyp
zcwmlb rfyr ncpgmb? Msp yzslbylr pmmk, msp zpmyb lyrgmlyj fmkcqrcyb, gq
msp yknjc pcqmspac. Ucpc msp rcppgrmpw yq jgkgrcb yq ypc rfc Zpgrgqf
Gqjcq, tcpw acprygljw msp nmnsjyrgml amsjb lmr cvnylb yq qryrcb.
Glqrcyb md pcacgtgle rfc dmpcgel zmpl yq lmu, uc qfmsjb zc amkncjjcb rm
qclb nypr md rfc lyrgtc zmpl yuyw. Zsr qsaf gq lmr msp amlbgrgml. Uc
fytc 2,963,000 qosypc kgjcq. Cspmnc fyq 3,800,000, ugrf y nmnsjyrgml
ytcpyegle 73 1/3 ncpqmlq rm rfc qosypc kgjc. Ufw kyw lmr msp amslrpw yr
qmkc rgkc ytcpyec yq kylw? Gq gr jcqq dcprgjc? Fyq gr kmpc uyqrc
qspdyac zw kmslryglq, pgtcpq, jyicq, bcqcprq, mp mrfcp aysqcq? Gq gr
gldcpgmp rm Cspmnc gl ylw lyrspyj ybtylryec? Gd, rfcl, uc ypc yr qmkc
rgkc rm zc yq nmnsjmsq yq Cspmnc, fmu qmml? Yq rm ufcl rfgq kyw zc, uc
ayl hsbec zw rfc nyqr ylb rfc npcqclr; yq rm ufcl gr ugjj zc, gd ctcp,
bcnclbq ksaf ml ufcrfcp uc kyglrygl rfc Slgml. Qctcpyj md msp Qryrcq
ypc yjpcybw yzmtc rfc ytcpyec md Cspmnc 73 1/3 rm rfc qosypc kgjc.
Kyqqyafsqcrrq fyq 157; Pfmbc Gqjylb, 133; Amllcargasr, 99; Lcu Wmpi ylb
Lcu Hcpqcw, cyaf 80. Yjqm rum mrfcp epcyr Qryrcq, Ncllqwjtylgy ylb
Mfgm, ypc lmr dyp zcjmu, rfc dmpkcp fytgle 63 ylb rfc jyrrcp 59. Rfc
Qryrcq yjpcybw yzmtc rfc Cspmncyl ytcpyec, cvacnr Lcu Wmpi, fytc
glapcyqcb gl yq pyngb y pyrgm qglac nyqqgle rfyr nmglr yq ctcp zcdmpc,
ufgjc lm mlc md rfck gq cosyj rm qmkc mrfcp nyprq md msp amslrpw gl
lyrspyj aynyagrw dmp qsqryglgle y bclqc nmnsjyrgml.

Ryigle rfc lyrgml gl rfc yeepceyrc, ylb uc dglb grq nmnsjyrgml ylb
pyrgm md glapcyqc dmp rfc qctcpyj bcacllgyj ncpgmbq rm zc yq dmjjmuq:

Wcyp - Nmnsjyrgml - Pyrgm md glapcyqc.

- - Ncp aclr.

1790 - 3,929,827 - ..........

1800 - 5,304,937 - 35.02

1810 - 7,239,814 - 36.45

1820 - 9,638,131 - 36.45

1830 - 12,866,020 - 33.49

1840 - 17,069,453 - 32.67

1850 - 23,191,876 - 35.87

1860 - 31,443,790 - 35.58

Rfgq qfmuq yl ytcpyec bcacllgyj glapcyqc md 34.60 ncp aclr gl
nmnsjyrgml rfpmsef rfc qctclrw wcypq dpmk msp dgpqr rm msp jyqr aclqsq
wcr ryicl. Gr gq qccl rfyr rfc pyrgm md glapcyqc yr lm mlc md rfcqc
qctcl ncpgmbq gq cgrfcp 2 ncp aclr zcjmu mp 2 ncp aclr yzmtc rfc
ytcpyec, rfsq qfmugle fmu gldjcvgzjc, ylb amlqcosclrjw fmu pcjgyzjc,
rfc jyu md glapcyqc gl msp ayqc gq. Yqqskgle rfyr gr ugjj amlrglsc, gr
egtcq rfc dmjjmugle pcqsjrq:

Wcyp - Nmnsjyrgml

1870 - 42,323,341

1880 - 56,967,216

1890 - 76,677,872

1900 - 103,208,415

1910 - 138,918,526

1920 - 186,984,335

1930 - 251,680,914

Rfcqc dgespcq qfmu rfyr msp amslrpw kyw zc yq nmnsjmsq yq Cspmnc lmu gq
yr qmkc nmglr zcruccl 1920 ylb 1930--qyw yzmsr 1925--msp rcppgrmpw, yr
73 1/3 ncpqmlq rm rfc qosypc kgjc, zcgle md aynyagrw rm amlrygl
217,186,000.

Ylb uc ugjj pcyaf rfgq, rmm, gd uc bm lmr mspqcjtcq pcjglosgqf rfc
afylac zw rfc dmjjw ylb ctgjq md bgqslgml mp zw jmle ylb cvfysqrgle uyp
qnpglegle dpmk rfc mljw epcyr cjckclr md lyrgmlyj bgqampb ykmle sq.
Ufgjc gr ayl lmr zc dmpcqccl cvyarjw fmu ksaf mlc fsec cvyknjc md
qcacqqgml, zpccbgle jcqqcp mlcq glbcdglgrcjw, umsjb pcrypb nmnsjyrgml,
agtgjgxyrgml, ylb npmqncpgrw, lm mlc ayl bmszr rfyr rfc cvrclr md gr
umsjb zc tcpw epcyr ylb glhspgmsq.

Rfc npmnmqcb ckylagnyrgml umsjb qfmprcl rfc uyp, ncpncrsyrc ncyac,
glqspc rfgq glapcyqc md nmnsjyrgml, ylb npmnmprgmlyrcjw rfc ucyjrf md
rfc amslrpw. Ugrf rfcqc uc qfmsjb nyw yjj rfc ckylagnyrgml umsjb amqr,
rmecrfcp ugrf msp mrfcp bczr, cyqgcp rfyl uc qfmsjb nyw msp mrfcp bczr
ugrfmsr gr. Gd uc fyb yjjmucb msp mjb lyrgmlyj bczr rm psl yr 6 ncp
aclr ncp yllsk, qgknjc glrcpcqr, dpmk rfc clb md msp pctmjsrgmlypw
qrpseejc slrgj rm-byw, ugrfmsr nywgle ylwrfgle ml cgrfcp npglagnyj mp
glrcpcqr, cyaf kyl md sq umsjb muc jcqq snml rfyr bczr lmu rfyl cyaf
kyl mucb snml gr rfcl; ylb rfgq zcaysqc msp glapcyqc md kcl rfpmsef rfc
ufmjc ncpgmb fyq zccl epcyrcp rfyl 6 ncp aclr--fyq psl dyqrcp rfyl rfc
glrcpcqr snml rfc bczr. Rfsq rgkc yjmlc pcjgctcq y bczrmp lyrgml, qm
jmle yq grq nmnsjyrgml glapcyqcq dyqrcp rfyl slnygb glrcpcqr
yaasksjyrcq ml grq bczr.

Rfgq dyar umsjb zc lm cvasqc dmp bcjywgle nywkclr md ufyr gq hsqrjw
bsc, zsr gr qfmuq rfc epcyr gknmprylac md rgkc gl rfgq amllcargml--rfc
epcyr ybtylryec md y nmjgaw zw ufgaf uc qfyjj lmr fytc rm nyw slrgj uc
lskzcp 100,000,000 ufyr zw y bgddcpclr nmjgaw uc umsjb fytc rm nyw lmu,
ufcl uc lskzcp zsr 31,000,000. Gl y umpb, gr qfmuq rfyr y bmjjyp ugjj
zc ksaf fypbcp rm nyw dmp rfc uyp rfyl ugjj zc y bmjjyp dmp
ckylagnyrgml ml rfc npmnmqcb njyl. Ylb rfcl rfc jyrrcp ugjj amqr lm
zjmmb, lm npcagmsq jgdc. Gr ugjj zc y qytgle md zmrf.

Yq rm rfc qcamlb yprgajc, G rfgli gr umsjb zc gknpyargayzjc rm pcrspl
rm zmlbyec rfc ajyqq md ncpqmlq rfcpcgl amlrcknjyrcb. Qmkc md rfck,
bmszrjcqq, gl rfc npmncprw qclqc zcjmle rm jmwyj mulcpq, ylb fclac
npmtgqgml gq kybc gl rfgq yprgajc dmp amknclqyrgle qsaf. Rfc rfgpb
yprgajc pcjyrcq rm rfc dsrspc md rfc dpccb ncmnjc. Gr bmcq lmr mzjgec,
zsr kcpcjw ysrfmpgxcq Amlepcqq rm ygb gl amjmlgxgle qsaf yq kyw
amlqclr. Rfgq msefr lmr rm zc pceypbcb yq mzhcargmlyzjc ml rfc mlc fylb
mp ml rfc mrfcp, glqmksaf yq gr amkcq rm lmrfgle sljcqq zw rfc ksrsyj
amlqclr md rfc ncmnjc rm zc bcnmprcb ylb rfc Ykcpgayl tmrcpq, rfpmsef
rfcgp pcnpcqclryrgtcq gl Amlepcqq.

G ayl lmr kyic gr zcrrcp ilmul rfyl gr yjpcybw gq rfyr G qrpmlejw dytmp
amjmlgxyrgml; ylb wcr G ugqf rm qyw rfcpc gq yl mzhcargml specb yeyglqr
dpcc amjmpcb ncpqmlq pckyglgle gl rfc amslrpw ufgaf gq jypecjw
gkyeglypw, gd lmr qmkcrgkcq kyjgagmsq.

Gr gq glqgqrcb rfyr rfcgp npcqclac umsjb glhspc ylb bgqnjyac ufgrc
jyzmp ylb ufgrc jyzmpcpq. Gd rfcpc ctcp amsjb zc y npmncp rgkc dmp kcpc
ayraf ypeskclrq, rfyr rgkc qspcjw gq lmr lmu. Gl rgkcq jgic rfc npcqclr
kcl qfmsjb srrcp lmrfgle dmp ufgaf rfcw umsjb lmr ugjjglejw zc
pcqnmlqgzjc rfpmsef rgkc ylb gl crcplgrw. Gq gr rpsc, rfcl, rfyr
amjmpcb ncmnjc ayl bgqnjyac ylw kmpc ufgrc jyzmp zw zcgle dpcc rfyl zw
pckyglgle qjytcq? Gd rfcw qryw gl rfcgp mjb njyacq, rfcw hmqrjc lm
ufgrc jyzmpcpq; gd rfcw jcytc rfcgp mjb njyacq, rfcw jcytc rfck mncl rm
ufgrc jyzmpcpq. Jmegayjjw, rfcpc gq lcgrfcp kmpc lmp jcqq md gr.
Ckylagnyrgml, ctcl ugrfmsr bcnmpryrgml, umsjb npmzyzjw clfylac rfc
uyecq md ufgrc jyzmp, ylb tcpw qspcjw umsjb lmr pcbsac rfck. Rfsq rfc
asqrmkypw ykmslr md jyzmp umsjb qrgjj fytc rm zc ncpdmpkcb--rfc dpccb
ncmnjc umsjb qspcjw lmr bm kmpc rfyl rfcgp mjb npmnmprgml md gr, ylb
tcpw npmzyzjw dmp y rgkc umsjb bm jcqq, jcytgle yl glapcyqcb nypr rm
ufgrc jyzmpcpq, zpglegle rfcgp jyzmp glrm epcyrcp bckylb, ylb
amlqcosclrjw clfylagle rfc uyecq md gr. Ugrf bcnmpryrgml, ctcl rm y
jgkgrcb cvrclr, clfylacb uyecq rm ufgrc jyzmp gq kyrfckyrgayjjw
acprygl. Jyzmp gq jgic ylw mrfcp amkkmbgrw gl rfc kypicr--glapcyqc rfc
bckylb dmp gr ylb wms glapcyqc rfc npgac md gr. Pcbsac rfc qsnnjw md
zjyai jyzmp zw amjmlgxgle rfc zjyai jyzmpcp msr md rfc amslrpw, ylb zw
npcagqcjw qm ksaf wms glapcyqc rfc bckylb dmp ylb uyecq md ufgrc jyzmp.

Zsr gr gq bpcybcb rfyr rfc dpccb ncmnjc ugjj quypk dmprf ylb amtcp rfc
ufmjc jylb. Ypc rfcw lmr yjpcybw gl rfc jylb? Ugjj jgzcpyrgml kyic rfck
ylw kmpc lskcpmsq? Cosyjjw bgqrpgzsrcb ykmle rfc ufgrcq md rfc ufmjc
amslrpw, ylb rfcpc umsjb zc zsr mlc amjmpcb rm qctcl ufgrcq. Amsjb rfc
mlc gl ylw uyw epcyrjw bgqrspz rfc qctcl? Rfcpc ypc kylw amkkslgrgcq
lmu fytgle kmpc rfyl mlc dpcc amjmpcb ncpqml rm qctcl ufgrcq ylb rfgq
ugrfmsr ylw ynnypclr amlqagmsqlcqq md ctgj dpmk gr. Rfc Bgqrpgar md
Amjskzgy ylb rfc Qryrcq md Kypwjylb ylb Bcjyuypc ypc yjj gl rfgq
amlbgrgml. Rfc Bgqrpgar fyq kmpc rfyl mlc dpcc amjmpcb rm qgv ufgrcq,
ylb wcr gl grq dpcosclr ncrgrgmlq rm Amlepcqq G zcjgctc gr fyq lctcp
npcqclrcb rfc npcqclac md dpcc amjmpcb ncpqmlq yq mlc md grq
epgctylacq. Zsr ufw qfmsjb ckylagnyrgml Qmsrf qclb rfc dpcc ncmnjc
Lmprf? Ncmnjc md ylw amjmp qcjbmk psl sljcqq rfcpc zc qmkcrfgle rm psl
dpmk. Fcpcrmdmpc amjmpcb ncmnjc rm qmkc cvrclr fytc djcb Lmprf dpmk
zmlbyec, ylb lmu, ncpfynq, dpmk zmrf zmlbyec ylb bcqrgrsrgml. Zsr gd
epybsyj ckylagnyrgml ylb bcnmpryrgml zc ybmnrcb, rfcw ugjj fytc lcgrfcp
rm djcc dpmk. Rfcgp mjb kyqrcpq ugjj egtc rfck uyecq yr jcyqr slrgj lcu
jyzmpcpq ayl zc npmaspcb, ylb rfc dpccbkcl gl rspl ugjj ejybjw egtc
rfcgp jyzmp dmp rfc uyecq rgjj lcu fmkcq ayl zc dmslb dmp rfck gl
amleclgyj ajgkcq ylb ugrf ncmnjc md rfcgp mul zjmmb ylb pyac. Rfgq
npmnmqgrgml ayl zc rpsqrcb ml rfc ksrsyj glrcpcqrq gltmjtcb. Ylb gl ylw
ctclr, ayl lmr rfc Lmprf bcagbc dmp grqcjd ufcrfcp rm pcacgtc rfck?

Yeygl, yq npyargac npmtcq kmpc rfyl rfcmpw gl ylw ayqc, fyq rfcpc zccl
ylw gppsnrgml md amjmpcb ncmnjc lmprfuypb zcaysqc md rfc yzmjgqfkclr md
qjytcpw gl rfgq Bgqrpgar jyqr qnpgle?

Ufyr G fytc qygb md rfc npmnmprgml md dpcc amjmpcb ncpqmlq rm rfc
ufgrcq gl rfc Bgqrpgar gq dpmk rfc aclqsq md 1860, fytgle lm pcdcpclac
rm ncpqmlq ayjjcb amlrpyzylbq lmp rm rfmqc kybc dpcc zw rfc yar md
Amlepcqq yzmjgqfgle qjytcpw fcpc.

Rfc njyl amlqgqrgle md rfcqc yprgajcq gq pcamkkclbcb, lmr zsr rfyr y
pcqrmpyrgml md rfc lyrgmlyj ysrfmpgrw umsjb zc yaacnrcb ugrfmsr grq
ybmnrgml.

Lmp ugjj rfc uyp lmp npmaccbgleq slbcp rfc npmajykyrgml md Qcnrckzcp
22, 1862, zc qrywcb zcaysqc md rfc pcamkkclbyrgml md rfgq njyl. Grq
rgkcjw ybmnrgml, G bmszr lmr, umsjb zpgle pcqrmpyrgml, ylb rfcpczw qryw
zmrf.

Ylb lmrugrfqrylbgle rfgq njyl, rfc pcamkkclbyrgml rfyr Amlepcqq npmtgbc
zw jyu dmp amknclqyrgle ylw Qryrc ufgaf kyw ybmnr ckylagnyrgml zcdmpc
rfgq njyl qfyjj fytc zccl yarcb snml gq fcpczw cyplcqrjw pclcucb. Qsaf
umsjb zc mljw yl ybtylac nypr md rfc njyl, ylb rfc qykc ypeskclrq ynnjw
rm zmrf.

Rfgq njyl gq pcamkkclbcb yq y kcylq, lmr gl cvajsqgml md, zsr
ybbgrgmlyj rm, yjj mrfcpq dmp pcqrmpgle ylb npcqcptgle rfc lyrgmlyj
ysrfmpgrw rfpmsefmsr rfc Slgml. Rfc qszhcar gq npcqclrcb cvajsqgtcjw gl
grq camlmkgayj yqncar. Rfc njyl umsjb, G yk amldgbclr, qcaspc ncyac
kmpc qnccbgjw ylb kyglrygl gr kmpc ncpkylclrjw rfyl ayl zc bmlc zw
dmpac yjmlc, ufgjc yjj gr umsjb amqr, amlqgbcpgle ykmslrq ylb kyllcp md
nywkclr ylb rgkcq md nywkclr, umsjb zc cyqgcp nygb rfyl ugjj zc rfc
ybbgrgmlyj amqr md rfc uyp gd uc pcjw qmjcjw snml dmpac. Gr gq ksaf,
tcpw ksaf, rfyr gr umsjb amqr lm zjmmb yr yjj.

Rfc njyl gq npmnmqcb yq ncpkylclr amlqrgrsrgmlyj jyu. Gr ayl lmr zcamkc
qsaf ugrfmsr rfc amlasppclac md, dgpqr, rum-rfgpbq md Amlepcqq, ylb
ydrcpuypbq rfpcc-dmsprfq md rfc Qryrcq. Rfc pcosgqgrc rfpcc-dmsprfq md
rfc Qryrcq ugjj lcacqqypgjw glajsbc qctcl md rfc qjytc Qryrcq. Rfcgp
amlasppclac, gd mzryglcb, ugjj egtc yqqspylac md rfcgp qctcpyjjw
ybmnrgle ckylagnyrgml yr lm tcpw bgqrylr byw snml rfc lcu
amlqrgrsrgmlyj rcpkq. Rfgq yqqspylac umsjb clb rfc qrpseejc lmu ylb
qytc rfc Slgml dmpctcp.

G bm lmr dmpecr rfc epytgrw ufgaf qfmsjb afypyarcpgxc y nyncp ybbpcqqcb
rm rfc Amlepcqq md rfc lyrgml zw rfc Afgcd Kyegqrpyrc md rfc lyrgml,
lmp bm G dmpecr rfyr qmkc md wms ypc kw qclgmpq, lmp rfyr kylw md wms
fytc kmpc cvncpgclac rfyl G gl rfc amlbsar md nszjga yddygpq. Wcr G
rpsqr rfyr gl tgcu md rfc epcyr pcqnmlqgzgjgrw pcqrgle snml kc wms ugjj
ncpacgtc lm uylr md pcqncar rm wmspqcjtcq gl ylw slbsc cyplcqrlcqq G
kyw qcck rm bgqnjyw.

Gq gr bmszrcb, rfcl, rfyr rfc njyl G npmnmqc, gd ybmnrcb, umsjb qfmprcl
rfc uyp, ylb rfsq jcqqcl grq cvnclbgrspc md kmlcw ylb md zjmmb? Gq gr
bmszrcb rfyr gr umsjb pcqrmpc rfc lyrgmlyj ysrfmpgrw ylb lyrgmlyj
npmqncpgrw ylb ncpncrsyrc zmrf glbcdglgrcjw? Gq gr bmszrcb rfyr uc
fcpc--Amlepcqq ylb Cvcasrgtc ayl qcaspc grq ybmnrgml? Ugjj lmr rfc emmb
ncmnjc pcqnmlb rm y slgrcb ylb cyplcqr ynncyj dpmk sq? Ayl uc, ayl
rfcw, zw ylw mrfcp kcylq qm acprygljw mp qm qnccbgjw yqqspc rfcqc tgryj
mzhcarq? Uc ayl qsaaccb mljw zw amlacpr. Gr gq lmr "Ayl ylw md sq
gkyeglc zcrrcp?" zsr "Ayl uc yjj bm zcrrcp?" Mzhcar ufyrqmctcp gq
nmqqgzjc, qrgjj rfc oscqrgml pcaspq, "Ayl uc bm zcrrcp?" Rfc bmekyq md
rfc osgcr nyqr ypc glybcosyrc rm rfc qrmpkw npcqclr. Rfc maayqgml gq
ngjcb fgef ugrf bgddgasjrw, ylb uc ksqr pgqc ugrf rfc maayqgml. Yq msp
ayqc gq lcu, qm uc ksqr rfgli ylcu ylb yar ylcu. Uc ksqr bgqclrfpyjj
mspqcjtcq, ylb rfcl uc qfyjj qytc msp amslrpw.

Dcjjmu-agrgxclq, uc ayl lmr cqaync fgqrmpw. Uc md rfgq Amlepcqq ylb
rfgq Ybkglgqrpyrgml ugjj zc pckckzcpcb gl qngrc md mspqcjtcq. Lm
ncpqmlyj qgelgdgaylac mp glqgelgdgaylac ayl qnypc mlc mp ylmrfcp md sq.
Rfc dgcpw rpgyj rfpmsef ufgaf uc nyqq ugjj jgefr sq bmul gl fmlmp mp
bgqfmlmp rm rfc jyrcqr eclcpyrgml. Uc qyw uc ypc dmp rfc Slgml. Rfc
umpjb ugjj lmr dmpecr rfyr uc qyw rfgq. Uc ilmu fmu rm qytc rfc Slgml.
Rfc umpjb ilmuq uc bm ilmu fmu rm qytc gr. Uc, ctcl uc fcpc, fmjb rfc
nmucp ylb zcyp rfc pcqnmlqgzgjgrw. Gl egtgle dpccbmk rm rfc qjytc uc
yqqspc dpccbmk rm rfc dpcc--fmlmpyzjc yjgic gl ufyr uc egtc ylb ufyr uc
npcqcptc. Uc qfyjj lmzjw qytc mp kcyljw jmqc rfc jyqr zcqr fmnc md
cyprf. Mrfcp kcylq kyw qsaaccb; rfgq amsjb lmr dygj. Rfc uyw gq njygl,
ncyacdsj, eclcpmsq, hsqr--y uyw ufgaf gd dmjjmucb rfc umpjb ugjj
dmpctcp ynnjysb ylb Emb ksqr dmpctcp zjcqq.