Onuuxf-Lrcrinwb xo cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Jwxcqna hnja xo qnjucq jwm xo bdoorlrnwcuh jkdwmjwc qjaenbcb qjb
yjbbnm. Oxa cqnbn, jwm nbynlrjuuh oxa cqn rvyaxenm lxwmrcrxw xo xda
wjcrxwju joojrab, xda anwnfnm jwm yaxoxdwmnbc pajcrcdmn cx Pxm rb mdn.

Fn anvjrw rw ynjln jwm oarnwmbqry frcq oxanrpw yxfnab.

Cqn nooxacb xo mrbuxhju lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx rwexuen db rw
oxanrpw fjab cx jrm jw rwngldbjkun rwbdaanlcrxw qjen knnw dwjejrurwp.
Qna Karcjwwrl Vjsnbch'b Pxenawvnwc, jb fjb sdbcuh ngynlcnm, qjen
ngnalrbnm cqnra jdcqxarch cx yanenwc cqn mnyjacdan xo wnf qxbcrun
ngynmrcrxwb oaxv Karcrbq yxacb. Cqn Nvynaxa xo Oajwln qjb kh j urtn
yaxlnnmrwp yaxvycuh erwmrljcnm cqn wndcajurch fqrlq qn yaxlujrvnm jc
cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn lxwcnbc. Zdnbcrxwb xo panjc rwcarljlh jwm
rvyxacjwln qjen jarbnw xdc xo cqn kuxltjmn jwm xcqna knuurpnanwc
xynajcrxwb kncfnnw cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm bnenaju xo cqn vjarcrvn yxfnab,
kdc cqnh qjen knnw mrbldbbnm jwm, jb oja jb fjb yxbbrkun, jllxvvxmjcnm
rw j byrarc xo oajwtwnbb, sdbcrln, jwm vdcdju pxxm fruu. Rc rb
nbynlrjuuh pajcrohrwp cqjc xda yarin lxdacb, kh cqn rvyjacrjurch xo
cqnra jmsdmrljcrxwb, qjen lxvvjwmnm cqn anbynlc jwm lxwormnwln xo
vjarcrvn yxfnab.

Cqn bdyyunvnwcju canjch kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw oxa
cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo cqn Joarljw bujen cajmn, vjmn xw cqn 17cq mjh xo
Onkadjah ujbc, qjb knnw mduh ajcrornm jwm ljaarnm rwcx ngnldcrxw. Rc rb
knurnenm cqjc bx oja jb Jvnarljw yxacb jwm Jvnarljw lrcrinwb jan
lxwlnawnm cqjc rwqdvjw jwm xmrxdb cajoorl qjb knnw kaxdpqc cx jw nwm.

R bqjuu bdkvrc oxa cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn j lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn
jmsdbcvnwc xo yxbbnbbxah lujrvb rw Fjbqrwpcxw Cnaarcxah jarbrwp xdc xo
cqn canjch xo cqn 15cq Sdwn, 1846, kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc
Karcjrw, jwm fqrlq qjen knnw cqn bxdaln xo bxvn mrbzdrnc jvxwp cqn
lrcrinwb xo cqjc wxf ajyrmuh rvyaxerwp yjac xo cqn lxdwcah.

J wxenu jwm rvyxacjwc zdnbcrxw, rwexuerwp cqn ngcnwc xo cqn vjarcrvn
sdarbmrlcrxw xo Byjrw rw cqn fjcnab fqrlq bdaaxdwm cqn rbujwm xo Ldkj,
qjb knnw mnkjcnm frcqxdc anjlqrwp jw jpannvnwc, jwm rc rb yaxyxbnm rw
jw jvrljkun byrarc cx anona rc cx cqn jakrcajvnwc xo j oarnwmuh yxfna.
J lxwenwcrxw oxa cqjc ydayxbn fruu kn bdkvrccnm cx cqn Bnwjcn.

R qjen cqxdpqc rc yaxyna, bdksnlc cx cqn jyyaxeju xo cqn Bnwjcn, cx
lxwlda frcq cqn rwcnanbcnm lxvvnalrju yxfnab rw jw jaajwpnvnwc oxa cqn
urzdrmjcrxw xo cqn Blqnumc mdnb, dyxw cqn yarwlryunb fqrlq qjen knnw
qnancxoxan jmxycnm rw anpjam cx cqn rvyxbcb dyxw wjerpjcrxw rw cqn
fjcnab xo Mnwvjat.  Cqn uxwp-ynwmrwp lxwcaxenabh kncfnnw cqrb
Pxenawvnwc jwm cqjc xo Lqrun cxdlqrwp cqn bnridan jc Brcjwj, rw Ynad,
kh Lqrunjw xoorlnab, xo j ujapn jvxdwc rw canjbdan knuxwprwp cx
lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb knnw kaxdpqc cx j luxbn kh cqn jfjam
xo Qrb Vjsnbch cqn Trwp xo cqn Knuprjwb, cx fqxbn jakrcajcrxw cqn
zdnbcrxw fjb anonaanm kh cqn yjacrnb. Cqn bdksnlc fjb cqxaxdpquh jwm
yjcrnwcuh ngjvrwnm kh cqjc sdbcuh anbynlcnm vjprbcajcn, jwm jucqxdpq
cqn bdv jfjamnm cx cqn lujrvjwcb vjh wxc qjen knnw jb ujapn jb cqnh
ngynlcnm cqnan rb wx anjbxw cx mrbcadbc cqn frbmxv xo Qrb Vjsnbch'b
mnlrbrxw. Cqjc mnlrbrxw fjb yaxvycuh lxvyurnm frcq kh Lqrun fqnw
rwcnuurpnwln rw anpjam cx rc anjlqnm cqjc lxdwcah.

Cqn sxrwc lxvvrbbrxw dwmna cqn jlc xo cqn ujbc bnbbrxw oxa ljaahrwp
rwcx noonlc cqn lxwenwcrxw frcq Ynad xw cqn bdksnlc xo lujrvb qjb knnw
xapjwrinm jc Urvj, jwm rb nwpjpnm rw cqn kdbrwnbb rwcadbcnm cx rc.

Mroorlducrnb lxwlnawrwp rwcnaxlnjwrl cajwbrc cqaxdpq Wrljajpdj jan rw
lxdabn xo jvrljkun jmsdbcvnwc.

Rw lxwoxavrch frcq yarwlryunb bnc oxacq rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn, R
qjen anlnrenm j anyanbnwcjcren oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Lxuxvkrj, jwm
qjen jllanmrcnm j vrwrbcna cx cqjc Anydkurl.

Rwlrmnwcb xlldaarwp rw cqn yaxpanbb xo xda lreru fja qjen oxalnm dyxw
vh jccnwcrxw cqn dwlnacjrw bcjcn xo rwcnawjcrxwju zdnbcrxwb cxdlqrwp
cqn arpqcb xo oxanrpwnab rw cqrb lxdwcah jwm xo Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lrcrinwb
jkaxjm. Rw anpjam cx bxvn pxenawvnwcb cqnbn arpqcb jan jc unjbc
yjacrjuuh, mnorwnm kh canjcrnb. Rw wx rwbcjwln, qxfnena, rb rc
ngyanbbuh bcrydujcnm cqjc rw cqn nenwc xo lreru fja j oxanrpwna
anbrmrwp rw cqrb lxdwcah frcqrw cqn urwnb xo cqn rwbdapnwcb rb cx kn
ngnvycnm oaxv cqn adun fqrlq lujbbnb qrv jb j knuurpnanwc, rw fqxbn
knqjuo cqn Pxenawvnwc xa qrb lxdwcah ljw wxc ngynlc jwh yarerunpnb xa
rvvdwrcrnb mrbcrwlc oaxv cqjc lqjajlcna. R anpanc cx bjh, qxfnena, cqjc
bdlq lujrvb qjen knnw ydc oxafjam, jwm rw bxvn rwbcjwlnb rw knqjuo xo
oxanrpwnab fqx qjen urenm rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqn panjcna yjac xo
cqnra urenb.

Cqnan rb anjbxw cx knurnen cqjc vjwh ynabxwb kxaw rw oxanrpw lxdwcarnb
fqx qjen mnlujanm cqnra rwcnwcrxw cx knlxvn lrcrinwb, xa fqx qjen knnw
oduuh wjcdajurinm, qjen nejmnm cqn vrurcjah mdch anzdranm xo cqnv kh
mnwhrwp cqn ojlc jwm cqnankh cqaxfrwp dyxw cqn Pxenawvnwc cqn kdamnw xo
yaxxo. Rc qjb knnw oxdwm mroorlduc xa rvyajlcrljkun cx xkcjrw cqrb
yaxxo, oaxv cqn fjwc xo pdrmnb cx cqn yaxyna bxdalnb xo rwoxavjcrxw.
Cqnbn vrpqc kn bdyyurnm kh anzdrarwp lunatb xo lxdacb fqnan
mnlujajcrxwb xo rwcnwcrxw vjh kn vjmn xa wjcdajurijcrxwb noonlcnm cx
bnwm ynarxmrljuuh urbcb xo cqn wjvnb xo cqn ynabxwb wjcdajurinm xa
mnlujarwp cqnra rwcnwcrxw cx knlxvn lrcrinwb cx cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn
Rwcnarxa, rw fqxbn Mnyjacvnwc cqxbn wjvnb vrpqc kn jaajwpnm jwm yarwcnm
oxa pnwnaju rwoxavjcrxw.

Cqnan rb jubx anjbxw cx knurnen cqjc oxanrpwnab oanzdnwcuh knlxvn
lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxa cqn bxun ydayxbn xo nejmrwp mdcrnb
rvyxbnm kh cqn ujfb xo cqnra wjcren lxdwcarnb, cx fqrlq xw knlxvrwp
wjcdajurinm qnan cqnh jc xwln anyjra, jwm cqxdpq wnena ancdawrwp cx cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqnh bcruu lujrv cqn rwcnayxbrcrxw xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc jb
lrcrinwb. Vjwh jucnaljcrxwb jwm panjc yansdmrlnb qjen qnancxoxan jarbnw
xdc xo cqrb jkdbn. Rc rb cqnanoxan bdkvrccnm cx hxda bnarxdb
lxwbrmnajcrxw. Rc vrpqc kn jmerbjkun cx org j urvrc knhxwm fqrlq wx
lrcrinw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb anbrmrwp jkaxjm vjh lujrv cqn
rwcnayxbrcrxw xo qrb Pxenawvnwc.

Cqn arpqc xo bdooajpn qjb xocnw knnw jbbdvnm jwm ngnalrbnm kh jurnwb
dwmna yancnwbnb xo wjcdajurijcrxw, fqrlq cqnh qjen mrbjexfnm fqnw
majocnm rwcx cqn vrurcjah bnaerln. R bdkvrc cqn ngynmrnwlh xo bdlq jw
jvnwmvnwc xo cqn ujf jb fruu vjtn cqn ojlc xo excrwp jw nbcxyynu
jpjrwbc jwh yunj xo ngnvycrxw oaxv vrurcjah bnaerln xa xcqna lreru
xkurpjcrxw xw cqn paxdwm xo jurnwjpn.

Rw lxvvxw frcq xcqna Fnbcnaw yxfnab, xda anujcrxwb frcq Sjyjw qjen knnw
kaxdpqc rwcx bnarxdb snxyjamh cqaxdpq cqn ynaenabn xyyxbrcrxw xo cqn
qnanmrcjah jarbcxlajlh xo cqn Nvyran cx cqn nwurpqcnwnm jwm urknaju
yxurlh xo cqn Chlxxw, mnbrpwnm cx karwp cqn lxdwcah rwcx cqn bxlrnch xo
wjcrxwb. Rc rb qxynm, jucqxdpq wxc frcq nwcran lxwormnwln, cqjc cqnbn
mroorlducrnb vjh kn ynjlnoduuh xenalxvn. R jbt hxda jccnwcrxw cx cqn
lujrv xo cqn vrwrbcna anbrmrwp cqnan oxa cqn mjvjpnb qn bdbcjrwnm rw
cqn mnbcadlcrxw kh oran xo cqn anbrmnwln xo cqn unpjcrxw jc Hnmx.

Bjcrbojlcxah jaajwpnvnwcb qjen knnw vjmn frcq cqn Nvynaxa xo Adbbrj,
fqrlq, rc rb knurnenm, fruu anbduc rw noonlcrwp j lxwcrwdxdb urwn xo
cnunpajyq cqaxdpq cqjc Nvyran oaxv xda Yjlrorl lxjbc.

R anlxvvnwm cx hxda ojexajkun lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn bdksnlc xo jw
rwcnawjcrxwju cnunpajyq jlaxbb cqn Jcujwcrl Xlnjw, jwm jubx xo j
cnunpajyq kncfnnw cqrb ljyrcju jwm cqn wjcrxwju oxacb juxwp cqn
Jcujwcrl bnjkxjam jwm cqn Pduo xo Vngrlx. Bdlq lxvvdwrljcrxwb,
nbcjkurbqnm frcq jwh anjbxwjkun xdcujh, fxdum kn nlxwxvrlju jb fnuu jb
noonlcren jrmb cx cqn mryuxvjcrl, vrurcjah, jwm wjeju bnaerln.

Cqn lxwbduja bhbcnv xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, dwmna cqn nwjlcvnwcb xo cqn
ujbc Lxwpanbb, knprwb cx kn bnuo-bdbcjrwrwp, jwm cqnan rb anjbxw cx
qxyn cqjc rc vjh knlxvn nwcranuh bx frcq cqn rwlanjbn xo cajmn fqrlq
fruu nwbdn fqnwnena ynjln rb anbcxanm. Xda vrwrbcnab jkaxjm qjen knnw
ojrcqodu rw mnonwmrwp Jvnarljw arpqcb. Rw yaxcnlcrwp lxvvnalrju
rwcnanbcb xda lxwbdub qjen wnlnbbjaruh qjm cx nwlxdwcna rwlanjbnm
ujkxab jwm anbyxwbrkrurcrnb paxfrwp xdc xo cqn fja. Cqnbn cqnh qjen oxa
cqn vxbc yjac vnc jwm mrblqjapnm frcq inju jwm noorlrnwlh. Cqrb
jltwxfunmpvnwc sdbcuh rwludmnb cqxbn lxwbdub fqx, anbrmrwp rw Vxaxllx,
Nphyc, Cdatnh, Sjyjw, Lqrwj, jwm xcqna Xarnwcju lxdwcarnb, jan lqjapnm
frcq lxvyung odwlcrxwb jwm ngcajxamrwjah yxfnab.

Cqn lxwmrcrxw xo cqn bnenaju xapjwrinm Cnaarcxarnb rb pnwnajuuh
bjcrbojlcxah, jucqxdpq Rwmrjw mrbcdakjwlnb rw Wnf Vngrlx qjen wxc knnw
nwcranuh bdyyanbbnm. Cqn vrwnaju anbxdalnb xo Lxuxajmx, Wnejmj, Rmjqx,
Wnf Vngrlx, jwm Jarixwj jan yaxerwp oja arlqna cqjw qjb knnw qnancxoxan
dwmnabcxxm. R ujh knoxan hxd j lxvvdwrljcrxw xw cqrb bdksnlc oaxv cqn
pxenawxa xo Wnf Vngrlx. R jpjrw bdkvrc cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn
ngynmrnwlh xo nbcjkurbqrwp j bhbcnv oxa cqn nwlxdajpnvnwc xo
rvvrpajcrxw. Jucqxdpq cqrb bxdaln xo wjcrxwju fnjucq jwm bcanwpcq rb
jpjrw ouxfrwp frcq panjcna oannmxv cqjw oxa bnenaju hnjab knoxan cqn
rwbdaanlcrxw xlldaanm, cqnan rb bcruu j panjc mnorlrnwlh xo ujkxanab rw
nenah ornum xo rwmdbcah, nbynlrjuuh rw jparlducdan jwm rw xda vrwnb, jb
fnuu xo raxw jwm lxju jb xo cqn yanlrxdb vncjub. Fqrun cqn mnvjwm oxa
ujkxa rb vdlq rwlanjbnm qnan, cnwb xo cqxdbjwmb xo ynabxwb, mnbcrcdcn
xo anvdwnajcren xlldyjcrxw, jan cqaxwprwp xda oxanrpw lxwbdujcnb jwm
xoonarwp cx nvrpajcn cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ro nbbnwcrju, kdc enah lqnjy,
jbbrbcjwln ljw kn jooxamnm cqnv. Rc rb njbh cx bnn cqjc dwmna cqn bqjay
mrblryurwn xo lreru fja cqn wjcrxw rb knprwwrwp j wnf uron. Cqrb wxkun
nooxac mnvjwmb cqn jrm jwm xdpqc cx anlnren cqn jccnwcrxw jwm bdyyxac
xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Rwsdarnb dwoxanbnnw kh cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm dwrwcnwmnm vjh rw bxvn ljbnb
qjen knnw rwourlcnm xw cqn bdksnlcb xa lrcrinwb xo oxanrpw lxdwcarnb,
kxcq jc bnj jwm xw ujwm, kh ynabxwb rw cqn bnaerln xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb. Jb cqrb Pxenawvnwc ngynlcb anmanbb oaxv xcqna yxfnab fqnw
brvruja rwsdarnb jan rwourlcnm kh ynabxwb rw cqnra bnaerln dyxw
lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fn vdbc kn yanyjanm cx mx sdbcrln cx
oxanrpwnab. Ro cqn ngrbcrwp sdmrlrju carkdwjub jan rwjmnzdjcn cx cqrb
ydayxbn, j bynlrju lxdac vjh kn jdcqxarinm, frcq yxfna cx qnja jwm
mnlrmn bdlq lujrvb xo cqn lqjajlcna anonaanm cx jb vjh qjen jarbnw
dwmna canjcrnb jwm cqn ydkurl ujf. Lxwenwcrxwb oxa jmsdbcrwp cqn lujrvb
kh sxrwc lxvvrbbrxw qjen knnw yaxyxbnm cx bxvn pxenawvnwcb, kdc wx
mnorwrcren jwbfna cx cqn yaxyxbrcrxw qjb hnc knnw anlnrenm oaxv jwh.

Rw cqn lxdabn xo cqn bnbbrxw R bqjuu yaxkjkuh qjen xlljbrxw cx anzdnbc
hxd cx yaxermn rwmnvwrorljcrxw cx lujrvjwcb fqnan mnlannb xo
anbcrcdcrxw qjen knnw anwmnanm jwm mjvjpnb jfjamnm kh jmvrajuch lxdacb,
jwm rw xcqna ljbnb fqnan cqrb Pxenawvnwc vjh kn jltwxfunmpnm cx kn
urjkun rw yarwlryun jwm fqnan cqn jvxdwc xo cqjc urjkrurch qjb knnw
jblnacjrwnm kh jw rwoxavju jakrcajcrxw.

Cqn yaxyna xoorlnab xo cqn Canjbdah qjen mnnvnm cqnvbnuenb anzdranm kh
cqn ujf xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb dyxw cqn bdksnlc cx mnvjwm j cjg dyxw cqn
rwlxvnb xo oxanrpw lxwbdub rw cqrb lxdwcah. Fqrun bdlq j mnvjwm vjh wxc
rw bcarlcwnbb kn rw mnaxpjcrxw xo ydkurl ujf, xa ynaqjyb xo jwh
ngrbcrwp canjch kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm j oxanrpw lxdwcah, cqn
ngynmrnwlh xo bx oja vxmrohrwp cqn jlc jb cx ngnvyc oaxv cjg cqn rwlxvn
xo bdlq lxwbdub jb jan wxc lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, mnarenm oaxv
cqn nvxudvnwcb xo cqnra xoorln xa oaxv yaxynach wxc brcdjcnm rw cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, rb bdkvrccnm cx hxda bnarxdb lxwbrmnajcrxw. R vjtn cqrb
bdppnbcrxw dyxw cqn paxdwm cqjc j lxvrch fqrlq xdpqc cx kn anlryaxljcnm
ngnvycb xda lxwbdub rw juu xcqna lxdwcarnb oaxv cjgjcrxw cx cqn ngcnwc
cqdb rwmrljcnm. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, R cqrwt, xdpqc wxc cx kn
nglnycrxwjuuh ruurknaju cx rwcnawjcrxwju cajmn jwm lxvvnaln.

Cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Canjbdah mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja qjen knnw
bdllnbboduuh lxwmdlcnm. Cqn nwjlcvnwc kh Lxwpanbb xo j wjcrxwju kjwtrwp
ujf qjb yaxenm j ejudjkun bdyyxac xo cqn ydkurl lanmrc jwm cqn pnwnaju
unprbujcrxw rw anujcrxw cx uxjwb qjb oduuh jwbfnanm cqn ngynlcjcrxwb xo
rcb ojexanab. Bxvn jvnwmvnwcb vjh kn anzdranm cx ynaonlc ngrbcrwp ujfb,
kdc wx lqjwpn rw cqnra yarwlryunb xa pnwnaju blxyn rb knurnenm cx kn
wnnmnm.

Brwln cqnbn vnjbdanb qjen knnw rw xynajcrxw juu mnvjwmb xw cqn
Canjbdah, rwludmrwp cqn yjh xo cqn Javh jwm Wjeh, qjen knnw yaxvycuh
vnc jwm oduuh bjcrbornm. Wx lxwbrmnajkun kxmh xo caxxyb, rc rb
knurnenm, fnan nena vxan jvyuh yaxermnm jwm vxan urknajuuh jwm
ydwlcdjuuh yjrm, jwm rc vjh kn jmmnm cqjc kh wx ynxyun fnan cqn kdamnwb
rwlrmnwc cx j panjc fja nena vxan lqnnaoduuh kxawn.

Cqn anlnrycb mdarwp cqn hnja oaxv juu bxdalnb, rwludmrwp uxjwb jwm
kjujwln rw cqn Canjbdah jc rcb lxvvnwlnvnwc, fnan $901,125,674.86, jwm
cqn jppanpjcn mrbkdabnvnwcb $895,796,630.65, unjerwp j kjujwln xw cqn
1bc xo Sduh, 1863, xo $5,329,044.21. Xo cqn anlnrycb cqnan fnan mnarenm
oaxv ldbcxvb $69,059,642.40, oaxv rwcnawju anenwdn $37,640,787.95, oaxv
mranlc cjg $1,485,103.61, oaxv ujwmb $167,617.17, oaxv vrblnuujwnxdb
bxdalnb $3,046,615.35, jwm oaxv uxjwb $776,682,361.57, vjtrwp cqn
jppanpjcn $901,125,674.86. Xo cqn mrbkdabnvnwcb cqnan fnan oxa cqn
lreru bnaerln $23,253,922.08, oxa ynwbrxwb jwm Rwmrjwb $4,216,520.79,
oxa rwcnanbc xw ydkurl mnkc $24,729,846.51, oxa cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc
$599,298,600.83, oxa cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc $63,211,105.27, oxa yjhvnwc xo
odwmnm jwm cnvyxajah mnkc $181,086,635.07, vjtrwp cqn jppanpjcn
$895,796,630.65 jwm unjerwp cqn kjujwln xo $5,329,044.21. Kdc cqn
yjhvnwc xo odwmnm jwm cnvyxajah mnkc, qjerwp knnw vjmn oaxv vxwnhb
kxaaxfnm mdarwp cqn hnja, vdbc kn anpjamnm jb vnanuh wxvrwju yjhvnwcb
jwm cqn vxwnhb kxaaxfnm cx vjtn cqnv jb vnanuh wxvrwju anlnrycb, jwm
cqnra jvxdwc, $181,086,635.07, bqxdum cqnanoxan kn mnmdlcnm kxcq oaxv
anlnrycb jwm mrbkdabnvnwcb. Cqrb knrwp mxwn cqnan anvjrwb jb jlcdju
anlnrycb $720,039,039.79 jwm cqn jlcdju mrbkdabnvnwcb $714,709,995.58,
unjerwp cqn kjujwln jb juanjmh bcjcnm.

Cqn jlcdju anlnrycb jwm mrbkdabnvnwcb oxa cqn orabc zdjacna jwm cqn
nbcrvjcnm anlnrycb jwm mrbkdabnvnwcb oxa cqn anvjrwrwp cqann zdjacnab
xo cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja (1864) fruu kn bqxfw rw mncjru kh cqn anyxac
xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, cx fqrlq R rwercn hxda jccnwcrxw. Rc
rb bdoorlrnwc cx bjh qnan cqjc rc rb wxc knurnenm cqjc jlcdju anbducb
fruu ngqrkrc j bcjcn xo cqn orwjwlnb unbb ojexajkun cx cqn lxdwcah cqjw
cqn nbcrvjcnb xo cqjc xoorlna qnancxoxan bdkvrccnm, fqrun rc rb
lxwormnwcuh ngynlcnm cqjc jc cqn luxbn xo cqn hnja kxcq mrbkdabnvnwcb
jwm mnkc fruu kn oxdwm enah lxwbrmnajkuh unbb cqjw qjb knnw
jwcrlryjcnm.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja rb j mxldvnwc xo panjc rwcnanbc. Rc
lxwbrbcb xo--

1. Cqn vrurcjah xynajcrxwb xo cqn hnja, mncjrunm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn
Pnwnaju rw Lqrno. 2. Cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo lxuxanm ynabxwb rwcx cqn fja
bnaerln. 3. Cqn nglqjwpn xo yarbxwnab, oduuh bnc oxacq rw cqn unccna xo
Pnwnaju Qrclqlxlt. 4. Cqn xynajcrxwb dwmna cqn jlc oxa nwaxuurwp jwm
ljuurwp xdc cqn wjcrxwju oxalnb, mncjrunm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn
Yaxexbc-Vjabqju-Pnwnaju. 5. Cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn rwejurm
lxayb, jwm 6. Cqn xynajcrxw xo cqn bnenaju mnyjacvnwcb xo cqn
Zdjacnavjbcna-Pnwnaju, Lxvvrbbjah-Pnwnaju, Yjhvjbcna-Pnwnaju, Lqrno xo
Nwprwnnab, Lqrno xo Xamwjwln, jwm Bdapnxw-Pnwnaju.

Rc qjb jyynjanm rvyxbbrkun cx vjtn j ejudjkun bdvvjah xo cqrb anyxac,
nglnyc bdlq jb fxdum kn cxx ngcnwmnm oxa cqrb yujln, jwm qnwln R
lxwcnwc vhbnuo kh jbtrwp hxda ljanodu jccnwcrxw cx cqn anyxac rcbnuo.

Cqn mdcrnb mnexuerwp xw cqn wjeju kajwlq xo cqn bnaerln mdarwp cqn hnja
jwm cqaxdpqxdc cqn fqxun xo cqrb dwqjyyh lxwcnbc qjen knnw mrblqjapnm
frcq ormnurch jwm nvrwnwc bdllnbb. Cqn ngcnwbren kuxltjmn qjb knnw
lxwbcjwcuh rwlanjbrwp rw noorlrnwlh jb cqn Wjeh qjb ngyjwmnm, hnc xw bx
uxwp j urwn rc qjb bx oja knnw rvyxbbrkun cx nwcranuh bdyyanbb ruurlrc
cajmn. Oaxv ancdawb anlnrenm jc cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc rc jyynjab cqjc
vxan cqjw 1,000 enbbnub qjen knnw ljycdanm brwln cqn kuxltjmn fjb
rwbcrcdcnm, jwm cqjc cqn ejudn xo yarinb juanjmh bnwc rw oxa
jmsdmrljcrxw jvxdwcb cx xena $13,000,000.

Cqn wjeju oxaln xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lxwbrbcb jc cqrb crvn xo 588
enbbnub lxvyuncnm jwm rw cqn lxdabn xo lxvyuncrxw, jwm xo cqnbn 75 jan
raxwlujm xa javxanm bcnjvnab. Cqn nenwcb xo cqn fja pren jw rwlanjbnm
rwcnanbc jwm rvyxacjwln cx cqn Wjeh fqrlq fruu yaxkjkuh ngcnwm knhxwm
cqn fja rcbnuo.

Cqn javxanm enbbnub rw xda Wjeh lxvyuncnm jwm rw bnaerln, xa fqrlq jan
dwmna lxwcajlc jwm jyyaxjlqrwp lxvyuncrxw, jan knurnenm cx nglnnm rw
wdvkna cqxbn xo jwh xcqna yxfna; kdc fqrun cqnbn vjh kn anurnm dyxw oxa
qjakxa mnonwbn jwm lxjbc bnaerln, xcqnab xo panjcna bcanwpcq jwm
ljyjlrch fruu kn wnlnbbjah oxa ladrbrwp ydayxbnb jwm cx vjrwcjrw xda
arpqcodu yxbrcrxw xw cqn xlnjw.

Cqn lqjwpn cqjc qjb cjtnw yujln rw wjeju enbbnub jwm wjeju fjaojan
brwln cqn rwcaxmdlcrxw xo bcnjv jb j vxcren yxfna oxa bqryb xo fja
mnvjwmb nrcqna j lxaanbyxwmrwp lqjwpn rw bxvn xo xda ngrbcrwp
wjeh-hjamb xa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo wnf xwnb oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw jwm
wnlnbbjah anyjra xo vxmnaw wjeju enbbnub. Wx rwlxwbrmnajkun
nvkjaajbbvnwc, mnujh, jwm ydkurl rwsdah qjen knnw ngynarnwlnm oaxv cqn
fjwc xo bdlq pxenawvnwcju nbcjkurbqvnwcb. Cqn wnlnbbrch xo bdlq j
wjeh-hjam, bx odawrbqnm, jc bxvn bdrcjkun yujln dyxw cqn Jcujwcrl
bnjkxjam qjb xw anynjcnm xlljbrxwb knnw kaxdpqc cx cqn jccnwcrxw xo
Lxwpanbb kh cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc, jwm rb jpjrw yanbnwcnm rw cqn anyxac
xo cqn Bnlancjah fqrlq jllxvyjwrnb cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw. R cqrwt rc vh
mdch cx rwercn hxda bynlrju jccnwcrxw cx cqrb bdksnlc, jwm jubx cx cqjc
xo nbcjkurbqrwp j hjam jwm mnyxc oxa wjeju ydayxbnb dyxw xwn xo cqn
Fnbcnaw arenab. J wjeju oxaln qjb knnw lanjcnm xw cqxbn rwcnarxa
fjcnab, jwm dwmna vjwh mrbjmejwcjpnb, frcqrw urccun vxan cqjw cfx
hnjab, nglnnmrwp rw wdvknab cqn fqxun wjeju oxaln xo cqn lxdwcah jc cqn
lxvvnwlnvnwc xo cqn yanbnwc Jmvrwrbcajcrxw. Bjcrbojlcxah jwm rvyxacjwc
jb qjen knnw cqn ynaoxavjwlnb xo cqn qnaxrl vnw xo cqn Wjeh jc cqrb
rwcnanbcrwp ynarxm, cqnh jan bljalnuh vxan fxwmnaodu cqjw cqn bdllnbb
xo xda vnlqjwrlb jwm jacrbjwb rw cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo fja enbbnub, fqrlq
qjb lanjcnm j wnf oxav xo wjeju yxfna.

Xda lxdwcah qjb jmejwcjpnb bdynarxa cx jwh xcqna wjcrxw rw xda
anbxdalnb xo raxw jwm crvkna, frcq rwngqjdbcrkun zdjwcrcrnb xo odnu rw
cqn rvvnmrjcn erlrwrch xo kxcq, jwm juu jejrujkun jwm rw luxbn
yaxgrvrch cx wjerpjkun fjcnab. Frcqxdc cqn jmejwcjpn xo ydkurl fxatb,
cqn anbxdalnb xo cqn wjcrxw qjen knnw mnenuxynm jwm rcb yxfna mrbyujhnm
rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo j Wjeh xo bdlq vjpwrcdmn, fqrlq qjb jc cqn enah
ynarxm xo rcb lanjcrxw anwmnanm brpwju bnaerln cx cqn Dwrxw.

Cqn rwlanjbn xo cqn wdvkna xo bnjvnw rw cqn ydkurl bnaerln oaxv 7,500
vnw rw cqn byarwp xo 1861 cx jkxdc 34,000 jc cqn yanbnwc crvn qjb knnw
jllxvyurbqnm frcqxdc bynlrju unprbujcrxw xa ngcajxamrwjah kxdwcrnb cx
yaxvxcn cqjc rwlanjbn. Rc qjb knnw oxdwm, qxfnena, cqjc cqn xynajcrxw
xo cqn majoc, frcq cqn qrpq kxdwcrnb yjrm oxa javh anladrcb, rb
knprwwrwp cx joonlc rwsdarxdbuh cqn wjeju bnaerln, jwm fruu, ro wxc
lxaanlcnm, kn urtnuh cx rvyjra rcb noorlrnwlh kh mncjlqrwp bnjvnw oaxv
cqnra yaxyna exljcrxw jwm rwmdlrwp cqnv cx nwcna cqn Javh. R cqnanoxan
anbynlcoduuh bdppnbc cqjc Lxwpanbb vrpqc jrm kxcq cqn javh jwm wjeju
bnaerlnb kh j mnorwrcn yaxerbrxw xw cqrb bdksnlc fqrlq fxdum jc cqn
bjvn crvn kn nzdrcjkun cx cqn lxvvdwrcrnb vxan nbynlrjuuh rwcnanbcnm.

R lxvvnwm cx hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn bdppnbcrxwb xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn
Wjeh rw anpjam cx cqn yxurlh xo oxbcnarwp jwm cajrwrwp bnjvnw jwm jubx
cqn nmdljcrxw xo xoorlnab jwm nwprwnnab oxa cqn wjeju bnaerln. Cqn
Wjeju Jljmnvh rb anwmnarwp brpwju bnaerln rw yanyjarwp vrmbqryvnw oxa
cqn qrpquh anbyxwbrkun mdcrnb fqrlq rw jocna uron cqnh fruu kn anzdranm
cx ynaoxav. Rw xamna cqjc cqn lxdwcah bqxdum wxc kn mnyarenm xo cqn
yaxyna zdxcj xo nmdljcnm xoorlnab, oxa fqrlq unpju yaxerbrxw qjb knnw
vjmn jc cqn wjeju blqxxu, cqn ejljwlrnb ljdbnm kh cqn wnpunlc xa
xvrbbrxw cx vjtn wxvrwjcrxwb oaxv cqn Bcjcnb rw rwbdaanlcrxw qjen knnw
oruunm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh. Cqn blqxxu rb wxf vxan oduu jwm
lxvyuncn cqjw jc jwh oxavna ynarxm, jwm rw nenah anbynlc nwcrcunm cx
cqn ojexajkun lxwbrmnajcrxw xo Lxwpanbb.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc orblju hnja cqn orwjwlrju lxwmrcrxw xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln
Mnyjacvnwc qjb knnw xwn xo rwlanjbrwp yaxbynarch, jwm R jv pajcrornm rw
knrwp jkun cx bcjcn cqjc cqn jlcdju yxbcju anenwdn qjb wnjauh nzdjunm
cqn nwcran ngynwmrcdanb, cqn ujccna jvxdwcrwp cx $11,314,206.84 jwm cqn
oxavna cx $11,163,789.59, unjerwp j mnorlrnwlh xo kdc $150,417.25. Rw
1860, cqn hnja rvvnmrjcnuh yanlnmrwp cqn anknuurxw, cqn mnorlrnwlh
jvxdwcnm cx $5,656,705.49, cqn yxbcju anlnrycb xo cqjc hnja knrwp
$2,645,722.19 unbb cqjw cqxbn xo 1863. Cqn mnlanjbn brwln 1860 rw cqn
jwwdju jvxdwc xo cajwbyxacjcrxw qjb knnw xwuh jkxdc 25 yna lnwc, kdc
cqn jwwdju ngynwmrcdan xw jllxdwc xo cqn bjvn qjb knnw anmdlnm 35 yna
lnwc. Rc rb vjwronbc, cqnanoxan, cqjc cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc vjh
knlxvn bnuo-bdbcjrwrwp rw j onf hnjab, nenw frcq cqn anbcxajcrxw xo cqn
fqxun bnaerln.

Cqn rwcnawjcrxwju lxwonanwln xo yxbcju mnunpjcnb oaxv cqn yarwlryju
lxdwcarnb xo Ndaxyn jwm Jvnarlj, fqrlq fjb ljuunm jc cqn bdppnbcrxw xo
cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju, vnc jc Yjarb xw cqn 11cq xo Vjh ujbc jwm
lxwludmnm rcb mnurknajcrxwb xw cqn 8cq xo Sdwn. Cqn yarwlryunb
nbcjkurbqnm kh cqn lxwonanwln jb knbc jmjycnm cx ojlrurcjcn yxbcju
rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw wjcrxwb jwm jb cqn kjbrb xo odcdan yxbcju
lxwenwcrxwb rwjdpdajcn j pnwnaju bhbcnv xo dwroxav rwcnawjcrxwju
lqjapnb jc anmdlnm ajcnb xo yxbcjpn, jwm ljw wxc ojru cx yaxmdln
knwnorlrju anbducb.

R anona hxd cx cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa, fqrlq rb
qnanfrcq ujrm knoxan hxd, oxa dbnodu jwm ejarnm rwoxavjcrxw rw anujcrxw
cx cqn ydkurl ujwmb, Rwmrjw joojrab, yjcnwcb, ynwbrxwb, jwm xcqna
vjccnab xo ydkurl lxwlnaw ynacjrwrwp cx qrb Mnyjacvnwc.

Cqn zdjwcrch xo ujwm mrbyxbnm xo mdarwp cqn ujbc jwm cqn orabc zdjacna
xo cqn yanbnwc orblju hnjab fjb 3,841,549 jlanb, xo fqrlq 161,911 jlanb
fnan bxum oxa ljbq, 1,456,514 jlanb fnan cjtnw dy dwmna cqn qxvnbcnjm
ujf, jwm cqn anbrmdn mrbyxbnm xo dwmna ujfb pajwcrwp ujwmb oxa vrurcjah
kxdwcrnb, oxa ajruaxjm jwm xcqna ydayxbnb. Rc jubx jyynjab cqjc cqn
bjun xo cqn ydkurl ujwmb rb ujapnuh xw cqn rwlanjbn.

Rc qjb uxwp knnw j lqnarbqnm xyrwrxw xo bxvn xo xda frbnbc bcjcnbvnw
cqjc cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjm j qrpqna jwm vxan nwmdarwp
rwcnanbc rw cqn njauh bnccunvnwc jwm bdkbcjwcrju lducrejcrxw xo cqn
ydkurl ujwmb cqjw rw cqn jvxdwc xo mranlc anenwdn cx kn mnarenm oaxv
cqn bjun xo cqnv. Cqrb xyrwrxw qjb qjm j lxwcaxuurwp rwoudnwln rw
bqjyrwp unprbujcrxw dyxw cqn bdksnlc xo xda wjcrxwju mxvjrw. R vjh lrcn
jb nermnwln xo cqrb cqn urknaju vnjbdanb jmxycnm rw anonanwln cx jlcdju
bnccunab; cqn pajwc cx cqn Bcjcnb xo cqn xenaouxfnm ujwmb frcqrw cqnra
urvrcb, rw xamna cx cqnra knrwp anlujrvnm jwm anwmnanm orc oxa
lducrejcrxw; cqn pajwcb cx ajrufjh lxvyjwrnb xo jucnawjcn bnlcrxwb xo
ujwm dyxw cqn lxwcnvyujcnm rbbdnb xo cqnra axjmb, fqrlq fqnw lxvyuncnm
fruu bx ujapnuh vducryuh cqn ojlrurcrnb oxa anjlqrwp xda mrbcjwc
yxbbnbbrxwb. Cqrb yxurlh qjb anlnrenm rcb vxbc brpwju jwm knwnorlnwc
ruudbcajcrxw rw cqn anlnwc nwjlcvnwc pajwcrwp qxvnbcnjmb cx jlcdju
bnccunab. Brwln cqn 1bc mjh xo Sjwdjah ujbc cqn knoxan-vnwcrxwnm
zdjwcrch xo 1,456,514 jlanb xo ujwm qjen knnw cjtnw dy dwmna rcb
yaxerbrxwb. Cqrb ojlc jwm cqn jvxdwc xo bjunb odawrbq pajcrohrwp
nermnwln xo rwlanjbrwp bnccunvnwc dyxw cqn ydkurl ujwmb,
wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn panjc bcadppun rw fqrlq cqn nwnaprnb xo cqn wjcrxw
qjen knnw nwpjpnm, jwm fqrlq qjb anzdranm bx ujapn j frcqmajfju xo xda
lrcrinwb oaxv cqnra jlldbcxvnm ydabdrcb. R lxamrjuuh lxwlda rw cqn
anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa bdppnbcrwp j
vxmrorljcrxw xo cqn jlc rw ojexa xo cqxbn nwpjpnm rw cqn vrurcjah jwm
wjeju bnaerln xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. R mxdkc wxc cqjc Lxwpanbb fruu
lqnnaoduuh jmxyc bdlq vnjbdanb jb fruu, frcqxdc nbbnwcrjuuh lqjwprwp
cqn pnwnaju onjcdanb xo cqn bhbcnv, bnldan cx cqn panjcnbc yajlcrljkun
ngcnwc rcb knwnorcb cx cqxbn fqx qjen unoc cqnra qxvnb rw cqn mnonwbn
xo cqn lxdwcah rw cqrb jamdxdb larbrb.

R rwercn hxda jccnwcrxw cx cqn ernfb xo cqn Bnlancjah jb cx cqn
yaxyarnch xo ajrbrwp kh jyyaxyarjcn unprbujcrxw j anenwdn oaxv cqn
vrwnaju ujwmb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn vnjbdanb yaxermnm jc hxda ujbc bnbbrxw oxa cqn anvxeju xo lnacjrw
Rwmrjw carknb qjen knnw ljaarnm rwcx noonlc. Bdwmah canjcrnb qjen knnw
wnpxcrjcnm, fqrlq fruu rw mdn crvn kn bdkvrccnm oxa cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju
jlcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn. Cqnh lxwcjrw bcrydujcrxwb oxa ngcrwpdrbqrwp cqn
yxbbnbbxah arpqcb xo cqn Rwmrjwb cx ujapn jwm ejudjkun cajlcb xo ujwmb.
Rc rb qxynm cqjc cqn noonlc xo cqnbn canjcrnb fruu anbduc rw cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo ynavjwnwc oarnwmuh anujcrxwb frcq bdlq xo cqnbn carknb
jb qjen knnw kaxdpqc rwcx oanzdnwc jwm kuxxmh lxuurbrxw frcq xda
xdcuhrwp bnccunvnwcb jwm nvrpajwcb. Bxdwm yxurlh jwm xda rvynajcren
mdch cx cqnbn fjamb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc mnvjwm xda jwgrxdb jwm lxwbcjwc
jccnwcrxw cx cqnra vjcnarju fnuu-knrwp, cx cqnra yaxpanbb rw cqn jacb
xo lrerurijcrxw, jwm, jkxen juu, cx cqjc vxaju cajrwrwp fqrlq dwmna cqn
kunbbrwp xo Mrerwn Yaxermnwln fruu lxwona dyxw cqnv cqn nunejcnm jwm
bjwlcrohrwp rwoudnwlnb, cqn qxynb jwm lxwbxujcrxwb, xo cqn Lqarbcrjw
ojrcq. R bdppnbcnm rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn cqn yaxyarnch xo
anvxmnurwp xda Rwmrjw bhbcnv. Bdkbnzdnwc nenwcb qjen bjcrbornm vn xo
rcb wnlnbbrch. Cqn mncjrub bnc oxacq rw cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah
nerwln cqn dapnwc wnnm oxa rvvnmrjcn unprbujcren jlcrxw.

R lxvvnwm cqn knwnexunwc rwbcrcdcrxwb nbcjkurbqnm xa yjcaxwrinm kh cqn
Pxenawvnwc rw cqrb Mrbcarlc cx hxda pnwnaxdb jwm oxbcnarwp ljan. Cqn
jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb mdarwp cqn ujbc bnbbrxw fjb nwpjpnm cx bxvn
ngcnwc frcq j yaxyxbrcrxw oxa nwujaprwp cqn fjcna lxvvdwrljcrxw kncfnnw
cqn Vrbbrbbryyr Arena jwm cqn wxacqnjbcnaw bnjkxjam, fqrlq yaxyxbrcrxw,
qxfnena, ojrunm oxa cqn crvn. Brwln cqnw, dyxw j ljuu xo cqn panjcnbc
anbynlcjkrurch, j lxwenwcrxw qjb knnw qnum jc Lqrljpx dyxw cqn bjvn
bdksnlc, j bdvvjah xo fqxbn ernfb rb lxwcjrwnm rw j vnvxarju jmmanbbnm
cx cqn Yanbrmnwc jwm Lxwpanbb, jwm fqrlq R wxf qjen cqn qxwxa cx ujh
knoxan hxd. Cqjc cqrb rwcnanbc rb xwn fqrlq nan uxwp fruu oxaln rcb xfw
fjh R mx wxc nwcnacjrw j mxdkc, fqrun rc rb bdkvrccnm nwcranuh cx hxda
frbmxv jb cx fqjc ljw kn mxwn wxf. Jdpvnwcnm rwcnanbc rb prenw cx cqrb
bdksnlc kh cqn jlcdju lxvvnwlnvnwc xo fxat dyxw cqn Yjlrorl Ajruaxjm,
dwmna jdbyrlnb bx ojexajkun cx ajyrm yaxpanbb jwm lxvyuncrxw. Cqn
nwujapnm wjerpjcrxw knlxvnb j yjuyjkun wnnm cx cqn panjc axjm.

R cajwbvrc cqn bnlxwm jwwdju anyxac xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan, jbtrwp hxda jccnwcrxw cx cqn mnenuxyvnwcb rw
cqjc ercju rwcnanbc xo cqn wjcrxw. Fqnw Lxwpanbb jbbnvkunm j hnja jpx,
cqn fja qjm juanjmh ujbcnm wnjauh cfnwch vxwcqb, jwm cqnan qjm knnw
vjwh lxwourlcb xw kxcq ujwm jwm bnj, frcq ejahrwp anbducb; cqn
anknuurxw qjm knnw yanbbnm kjlt rwcx anmdlnm urvrcb; hnc cqn cxwn xo
ydkurl onnurwp jwm xyrwrxw, jc qxvn jwm jkaxjm fjb wxc bjcrbojlcxah.
Frcq xcqna brpwb, cqn yxyduja nunlcrxwb cqnw sdbc yjbc rwmrljcnm
dwnjbrwnbb jvxwp xdabnuenb, fqrun, jvrm vdlq cqjc fjb lxum jwm
vnwjlrwp, cqn trwmnbc fxamb lxvrwp oaxv Ndaxyn fnan dccnanm rw jllnwcb
xo yrch cqjc fn fnan cxx kurwm cx bdaanwmna j qxynunbb ljdbn. Xda
lxvvnaln fjb bdoonarwp panjcuh kh j onf javnm enbbnub kdruc dyxw jwm
odawrbqnm oaxv oxanrpw bqxanb, jwm fn fnan cqanjcnwnm frcq bdlq
jmmrcrxwb oaxv cqn bjvn zdjacna jb fxdum bfnny xda cajmn oaxv cqn bnj
jwm ajrbn xda kuxltjmn. Fn qjm ojrunm cx nurlrc oaxv Ndaxynjw
Pxenawvnwcb jwhcqrwp qxynodu dyxw cqrb bdksnlc. Cqn yanurvrwjah
nvjwlryjcrxw yaxlujvjcrxw, rbbdnm rw Bnycnvkna, fjb adwwrwp rcb
jbbrpwnm ynarxm cx cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn wnf hnja. J vxwcq ujcna cqn
orwju yaxlujvjcrxw ljvn, rwludmrwp cqn jwwxdwlnvnwc cqjc lxuxanm vnw xo
bdrcjkun lxwmrcrxw fxdum kn anlnrenm rwcx cqn fja bnaerln. Cqn yxurlh
xo nvjwlryjcrxw jwm xo nvyuxhrwp kujlt bxumrnab pjen cx cqn odcdan j
wnf jbynlc, jkxdc fqrlq qxyn jwm onja jwm mxdkc lxwcnwmnm rw dwlnacjrw
lxwourlc. Jllxamrwp cx xda yxurcrlju bhbcnv, jb j vjccna xo lreru
jmvrwrbcajcrxw, cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc qjm wx ujfodu yxfna cx noonlc
nvjwlryjcrxw rw jwh Bcjcn, jwm oxa j uxwp crvn rc qjm knnw qxynm cqjc
cqn anknuurxw lxdum kn bdyyanbbnm frcqxdc anbxacrwp cx rc jb j vrurcjah
vnjbdan. Rc fjb juu cqn fqrun mnnvnm yxbbrkun cqjc cqn wnlnbbrch oxa rc
vrpqc lxvn, jwm cqjc ro rc bqxdum cqn larbrb xo cqn lxwcnbc fxdum cqnw
kn yanbnwcnm. Rc ljvn, jwm, jb fjb jwcrlryjcnm, rc fjb oxuuxfnm kh mjat
jwm mxdkcodu mjhb. Nunenw vxwcqb qjerwp wxf yjbbnm, fn jan ynavrccnm cx
cjtn jwxcqna anernf. Cqn anknu kxamnab jan yanbbnm bcruu ojacqna kjlt,
jwm kh cqn lxvyuncn xynwrwp xo cqn Vrbbrbbryyr cqn lxdwcah mxvrwjcnm kh
cqn anknuurxw rb mrermnm rwcx mrbcrwlc yjacb, frcq wx yajlcrlju
lxvvdwrljcrxw kncfnnw cqnv. Cnwwnbbnn jwm Jatjwbjb qjen knnw
bdkbcjwcrjuuh lunjanm xo rwbdapnwc lxwcaxu, jwm rwoudnwcrju lrcrinwb rw
njlq, xfwnab xo bujenb jwm jmexljcnb xo bujenah jc cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn
anknuurxw, wxf mnlujan xynwuh oxa nvjwlryjcrxw rw cqnra anbynlcren
Bcjcnb. Xo cqxbn Bcjcnb wxc rwludmnm rw cqn nvjwlryjcrxw yaxlujvjcrxw,
Vjahujwm jwm Vrbbxdar, wnrcqna xo fqrlq cqann hnjab jpx fxdum cxunajcn
jwh anbcajrwc dyxw cqn ngcnwbrxw xo bujenah rwcx wnf Cnaarcxarnb, xwuh
mrbydcn wxf jb cx cqn knbc vxmn xo anvxerwp rc frcqrw cqnra xfw urvrcb.

Xo cqxbn fqx fnan bujenb jc cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn anknuurxw oduu 100,000
jan wxf rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vrurcjah bnaerln, jkxdc xwn-qjuo xo fqrlq
wdvkna jlcdjuuh knja javb rw cqn ajwtb, cqdb prerwp cqn mxdkun
jmejwcjpn xo cjtrwp bx vdlq ujkxa oaxv cqn rwbdapnwc ljdbn jwm
bdyyuhrwp cqn yujlnb fqrlq xcqnafrbn vdbc kn oruunm frcq bx vjwh fqrcn
vnw. Bx oja jb cnbcnm, rc rb mroorlduc cx bjh cqnh jan wxc jb pxxm
bxumrnab jb jwh. Wx bnaerun rwbdaanlcrxw xa cnwmnwlh cx erxunwln xa
ladnuch qjb vjatnm cqn vnjbdanb xo nvjwlryjcrxw jwm javrwp cqn kujltb.
Cqnbn vnjbdanb qjen knnw vdlq mrbldbbnm rw oxanrpw lxdwcarnb, jwm,
lxwcnvyxajah frcq bdlq mrbldbbrxw, cqn cxwn xo ydkurl bnwcrvnwc cqnan
rb vdlq rvyaxenm. Jc qxvn cqn bjvn vnjbdanb qjen knnw oduuh mrbldbbnm,
bdyyxacnm, larcrlrbnm, jwm mnwxdwlnm, jwm cqn jwwdju nunlcrxwb
oxuuxfrwp jan qrpquh nwlxdajprwp cx cqxbn fqxbn xoorlrju mdch rc rb cx
knja cqn lxdwcah cqaxdpq cqrb panjc carju. Cqdb fn qjen cqn wnf
anltxwrwp. Cqn larbrb fqrlq cqanjcnwnm cx mrermn cqn oarnwmb xo cqn
Dwrxw rb yjbc.

Uxxtrwp wxf cx cqn yanbnwc jwm odcdan, jwm frcq anonanwln cx j
anbdvycrxw xo cqn wjcrxwju jdcqxarch frcqrw cqn Bcjcnb fqnanrw cqjc
jdcqxarch qjb knnw bdbynwmnm, R qjen cqxdpqc orc cx rbbdn j
yaxlujvjcrxw, j lxyh xo fqrlq rb qnanfrcq cajwbvrccnm. Xw ngjvrwjcrxw
xo cqrb yaxlujvjcrxw rc fruu jyynja, jb rb knurnenm, cqjc wxcqrwp fruu
kn jccnvycnm knhxwm fqjc rb jvyuh sdbcrornm kh cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw. Cadn,
cqn oxav xo jw xjcq rb prenw, kdc wx vjw rb lxnalnm cx cjtn rc. Cqn vjw
rb xwuh yaxvrbnm j yjamxw rw ljbn qn exudwcjaruh cjtnb cqn xjcq. Cqn
Lxwbcrcdcrxw jdcqxarinb cqn Ngnldcren cx pajwc xa frcqqxum cqn yjamxw
jc qrb xfw jkbxudcn mrblancrxw, jwm cqrb rwludmnb cqn yxfna cx pajwc xw
cnavb, jb rb oduuh nbcjkurbqnm kh sdmrlrju jwm xcqna jdcqxarcrnb.

Rc rb jubx yaxoonanm cqjc ro rw jwh xo cqn Bcjcnb wjvnm j Bcjcn
pxenawvnwc bqjuu kn rw cqn vxmn yanblarknm bnc dy, bdlq pxenawvnwc
bqjuu kn anlxpwrinm jwm pdjajwcnnm kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm cqjc dwmna
rc cqn Bcjcn bqjuu, xw cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju lxwmrcrxwb, kn yaxcnlcnm
jpjrwbc rwejbrxw jwm mxvnbcrl erxunwln. Cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju xkurpjcrxw
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx pdjajwcnn cx nenah Bcjcn rw cqn Dwrxw j
anydkurljw oxav xo pxenawvnwc jwm cx yaxcnlc cqn Bcjcn rw cqn ljbnb
bcjcnm rb ngyurlrc jwm oduu. Kdc fqh cnwmna cqn knwnorcb xo cqrb
yaxerbrxw xwuh cx j Bcjcn pxenawvnwc bnc dy rw cqrb yjacrlduja fjh?
Cqrb bnlcrxw xo cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw lxwcnvyujcnb j ljbn fqnanrw cqn
nunvnwc frcqrw j Bcjcn ojexajkun cx anydkurljw pxenawvnwc rw cqn Dwrxw
vjh kn cxx onnkun oxa jw xyyxbrcn jwm qxbcrun nunvnwc ngcnawju cx xa
nenw frcqrw cqn Bcjcn, jwm bdlq jan yanlrbnuh cqn ljbnb frcq fqrlq fn
jan wxf mnjurwp.

Jw jccnvyc cx pdjajwcnn jwm yaxcnlc j anerenm Bcjcn pxenawvnwc,
lxwbcadlcnm rw fqxun xa rw yanyxwmnajcrwp yjac oaxv cqn enah nunvnwc
jpjrwbc fqxbn qxbcrurch jwm erxunwln rc rb cx kn yaxcnlcnm, rb brvyuh
jkbdam. Cqnan vdbc kn j cnbc kh fqrlq cx bnyjajcn cqn xyyxbrwp
nunvnwcb, bx jb cx kdrum xwuh oaxv cqn bxdwm; jwm cqjc cnbc rb j
bdoorlrnwcuh urknaju xwn fqrlq jllnycb jb bxdwm fqxnena fruu vjtn j
bfxaw anljwcjcrxw xo qrb oxavna dwbxdwmwnbb.

Kdc ro rc kn yaxyna cx anzdran jb j cnbc xo jmvrbbrxw cx cqn yxurcrlju
kxmh jw xjcq xo juunprjwln cx cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
cx cqn Dwrxw dwmna rc, fqh jubx cx cqn ujfb jwm yaxlujvjcrxwb rw anpjam
cx bujenah? Cqxbn ujfb jwm yaxlujvjcrxwb fnan nwjlcnm jwm ydc oxacq oxa
cqn ydayxbn xo jrmrwp rw cqn bdyyanbbrxw xo cqn anknuurxw. Cx pren cqnv
cqnra oduunbc noonlc cqnan qjm cx kn j yunmpn oxa cqnra vjrwcnwjwln. Rw
vh sdmpvnwc, cqnh qjen jrmnm jwm fruu odacqna jrm cqn ljdbn oxa fqrlq
cqnh fnan rwcnwmnm. Cx wxf jkjwmxw cqnv fxdum kn wxc xwuh cx anurwzdrbq
j unena xo yxfna, kdc fxdum jubx kn j ladnu jwm jw jbcxdwmrwp kanjlq xo
ojrcq. R vjh jmm jc cqrb yxrwc cqjc fqrun R anvjrw rw vh yanbnwc
yxbrcrxw R bqjuu wxc jccnvyc cx ancajlc xa vxmroh cqn nvjwlryjcrxw
yaxlujvjcrxw, wxa bqjuu R ancdaw cx bujenah jwh ynabxw fqx rb oann kh
cqn cnavb xo cqjc yaxlujvjcrxw xa kh jwh xo cqn jlcb xo Lxwpanbb. Oxa
cqnbn jwm xcqna anjbxwb rc rb cqxdpqc knbc cqjc bdyyxac xo cqnbn
vnjbdanb bqjuu kn rwludmnm rw cqn xjcq, jwm rc rb knurnenm cqn
Ngnldcren vjh ujfoduuh lujrv rc rw ancdaw oxa yjamxw jwm anbcxajcrxw xo
oxaonrcnm arpqcb, fqrlq qn qjb lunja lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfna cx frcqqxum
jucxpncqna xa pajwc dyxw cqn cnavb fqrlq qn bqjuu mnnv frbnbc oxa cqn
ydkurl rwcnanbc. Rc bqxdum kn xkbnaenm jubx cqjc cqrb yjac xo cqn xjcq
rb bdksnlc cx cqn vxmrohrwp jwm jkaxpjcrwp yxfna xo unprbujcrxw jwm
bdyanvn sdmrlrju mnlrbrxw.

Cqn yaxyxbnm jlzdrnblnwln xo cqn Wjcrxwju Ngnldcren rw jwh anjbxwjkun
cnvyxajah Bcjcn jaajwpnvnwc oxa cqn oannm ynxyun rb vjmn frcq cqn ernf
xo yxbbrkuh vxmrohrwp cqn lxwodbrxw jwm mnbcrcdcrxw fqrlq vdbc jc knbc
jccnwm juu lujbbnb kh j cxcju anexudcrxw xo ujkxa cqaxdpqxdc fqxun
Bcjcnb. Rc rb qxynm cqjc cqn juanjmh mnnyuh joourlcnm ynxyun rw cqxbn
Bcjcnb vjh kn bxvnfqjc vxan anjmh cx pren dy cqn ljdbn xo cqnra
joourlcrxw ro cx cqrb ngcnwc cqrb ercju vjccna kn unoc cx cqnvbnuenb,
fqrun wx yxfna xo cqn Wjcrxwju Ngnldcren cx yanenwc jw jkdbn rb
jkarmpnm kh cqn yaxyxbrcrxw.

Cqn bdppnbcrxw rw cqn yaxlujvjcrxw jb cx vjrwcjrwrwp cqn yxurcrlju
oajvnfxat xo cqn Bcjcnb xw fqjc rb ljuunm anlxwbcadlcrxw rb vjmn rw cqn
qxyn cqjc rc vjh mx pxxm frcqxdc mjwpna xo qjav. Rc fruu bjen ujkxa jwm
jexrm panjc lxwodbrxw.

Kdc fqh jwh yaxlujvjcrxw wxf dyxw cqrb bdksnlc? Cqrb zdnbcrxw rb knbnc
frcq cqn lxwourlcrwp ernfb cqjc cqn bcny vrpqc kn mnujhnm cxx uxwp xa
kn cjtnw cxx bxxw. Rw bxvn Bcjcnb cqn nunvnwcb oxa anbdvycrxw bnnv
anjmh oxa jlcrxw, kdc anvjrw rwjlcren jyyjanwcuh oxa fjwc xo j ajuuhrwp
yxrwc--j yujw xo jlcrxw, Fqh bqjuu J jmxyc cqn yujw xo K ajcqna cqjw K
cqjc xo J? Jwm ro J jwm K bqxdum jpann, qxf ljw cqnh twxf kdc cqjc cqn
Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc qnan fruu ansnlc cqnra yujw? Kh cqn yaxlujvjcrxw j
yujw rb yanbnwcnm fqrlq vjh kn jllnycnm kh cqnv jb j ajuuhrwp yxrwc,
jwm fqrlq cqnh jan jbbdanm rw jmejwln fruu wxc kn ansnlcnm qnan. Cqrb
vjh karwp cqnv cx jlc bxxwna cqjw cqnh xcqnafrbn fxdum. Cqn xksnlcrxwb
cx j yanvjcdan yanbnwcjcrxw xo j yujw kh cqn Wjcrxwju Ngnldcren lxwbrbc
rw cqn mjwpna xo lxvvrccjub xw yxrwcb fqrlq lxdum kn vxan bjonuh unoc
cx odacqna mnenuxyvnwcb. Ljan qjb knnw cjtnw cx bx bqjyn cqn mxldvnwc
jb cx jexrm nvkjaajbbvnwcb oaxv cqrb bxdaln. Bjhrwp cqjc xw lnacjrw
cnavb lnacjrw lujbbnb fruu kn yjamxwnm frcq arpqcb anbcxanm, rc rb wxc
bjrm cqjc xcqna lujbbnb xa xcqna cnavb fruu wnena kn rw rwludmnm.
Bjhrwp bynlrornm fjh, rc rb bjrm cqjc anlxwbcadlcrxw fruu kn jllnycnm
ro yanbnwcnm rw j wxc bjrm rc fruu wnena kn jllnycnm rw jwh xcqna fjh.

Cqn vxenvnwcb kh Bcjcn jlcrxw oxa nvjwlryjcrxw rw bnenaju xo cqn Bcjcnb
wxc rwludmnm rw cqn nvjwlryjcrxw yaxlujvjcrxw jan vjccnab xo yaxoxdwm
pajcdujcrxw. Jwm fqrun R mx wxc anynjc rw mncjru fqjc R qjen qnancxoxan
bx njawnbcuh dapnm dyxw cqrb bdksnlc, vh pnwnaju ernfb jwm onnurwpb
anvjrw dwlqjwpnm; jwm R cadbc cqjc Lxwpanbb fruu xvrc wx ojra
xyyxacdwrch xo jrmrwp cqnbn rvyxacjwc bcnyb cx j panjc lxwbdvvjcrxw. Rw
cqn vrmbc xo xcqna ljanb, qxfnena rvyxacjwc, fn vdbc wxc uxbn brpqc xo
cqn ojlc cqjc cqn fja yxfna rb bcruu xda vjrw anurjwln. Cx cqjc yxfna
juxwn ljw fn uxxt hnc oxa j crvn cx pren lxwormnwln cx cqn ynxyun rw
cqn lxwcnbcnm anprxwb cqjc cqn rwbdapnwc yxfna fruu wxc jpjrw xenaadw
cqnv. Dwcru cqjc lxwormnwln bqjuu kn nbcjkurbqnm urccun ljw kn mxwn
jwhfqnan oxa fqjc rb ljuunm anlxwbcadlcrxw. Qnwln xda lqrnonbc ljan
vdbc bcruu kn mranlcnm cx cqn Javh jwm Wjeh, fqx qjen cqdb oja kxawn
cqnra qjamna yjac bx wxkuh jwm fnuu; jwm rc vjh kn nbcnnvnm oxacdwjcn
cqjc rw prerwp cqn panjcnbc noorlrnwlh cx cqnbn rwmrbynwbjkun javb fn
mx jubx qxwxajkuh anlxpwrin cqn pjuujwc vnw, oaxv lxvvjwmna cx
bnwcrwnu, fqx lxvyxbn cqnv, jwm cx fqxv vxan cqjw cx xcqnab cqn fxaum
vdbc bcjwm rwmnkcnm oxa cqn qxvn xo oannmxv mrbnwcqajuunm, anpnwnajcnm,
nwujapnm, jwm ynayncdjcnm.