Kjqqtb-Hnynejsx tk ymj Xjsfyj fsi Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

Ns ymj rnixy tk zsuwjhjijsyji utqnynhfq ywtzgqjx bj mfaj hfzxj tk lwjfy
lwfynyzij yt Lti ktw zszxzfq ltti mjfqym fsi rtxy fgzsifsy mfwajxyx.

Dtz bnqq sty gj xzwuwnxji yt qjfws ymfy ns ymj ujhzqnfw jcnljshnjx tk
ymj ynrjx tzw nsyjwhtzwxj bnym ktwjnls sfyntsx mfx gjjs fyyjsiji bnym
uwtktzsi xtqnhnyzij, hmnjkqd yzwsnsl zuts tzw tbs itrjxynh fkkfnwx.

F inxqtdfq utwynts tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj mfaj izwnsl ymj bmtqj djfw
gjjs jslflji ns fs fyyjruy yt inanij fsi ijxywtd ymj Zsnts. F sfynts
bmnhm jsizwjx kfhyntzx itrjxynh inanxnts nx jcutxji yt inxwjxujhy
fgwtfi, fsi tsj ufwyd, nk sty gtym, nx xzwj xttsjw tw qfyjw yt nsatpj
ktwjnls nsyjwajsynts.

Sfyntsx ymzx yjruyji yt nsyjwkjwj fwj sty fqbfdx fgqj yt wjxnxy ymj
htzsxjqx tk xjjrnsl jcujinjshd fsi zsljsjwtzx frgnynts, fqymtzlm
rjfxzwjx fituyji zsijw xzhm nskqzjshjx xjqitr kfnq yt gj zsktwyzsfyj
fsi nsozwntzx yt ymtxj fituynsl ymjr.

Ymj inxqtdfq hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bmt mfaj tkkjwji ymj wzns tk
tzw htzsywd ns wjyzws ktw ymj fni fsi htrktwy bmnhm ymjd mfaj nsatpji
fgwtfi mfaj wjhjnaji qjxx ufywtsflj fsi jshtzwfljrjsy ymfs ymjd
uwtgfgqd jcujhyji. Nk ny bjwj ozxy yt xzuutxj, fx ymj nsxzwljsyx mfaj
xjjrji yt fxxzrj, ymfy ktwjnls sfyntsx ns ymnx hfxj, inxhfwinsl fqq
rtwfq, xthnfq, fsi ywjfyd tgqnlfyntsx, btzqi fhy xtqjqd fsi xjqknxmqd
ktw ymj rtxy xujjid wjxytwfynts tk htrrjwhj, nshqzinsl jxujhnfqqd ymj
fhvznxnynts tk htyyts, ymtxj sfyntsx fuujfw fx djy sty yt mfaj xjjs
ymjnw bfd yt ymjnw tgojhy rtwj inwjhyqd tw hqjfwqd ymwtzlm ymj
ijxywzhynts ymfs ymwtzlm ymj uwjxjwafynts tk ymj Zsnts. Nk bj htzqi
ifwj yt gjqnjaj ymfy ktwjnls sfyntsx fwj fhyzfyji gd st mnlmjw
uwnshnuqj ymfs ymnx, N fr vznyj xzwj f xtzsi fwlzrjsy htzqi gj rfij yt
xmtb ymjr ymfy ymjd hfs wjfhm ymjnw fnr rtwj wjfinqd fsi jfxnqd gd
fninsl yt hwzxm ymnx wjgjqqnts ymfs gd lnansl jshtzwfljrjsy yt ny.

Ymj uwnshnufq qjajw wjqnji ts gd ymj nsxzwljsyx ktw jchnynsl ktwjnls
sfyntsx yt mtxynqnyd flfnsxy zx, fx fqwjfid nsynrfyji, nx ymj
jrgfwwfxxrjsy tk htrrjwhj. Ymtxj sfyntsx, mtbjajw, sty nruwtgfgqd xfb
kwtr ymj knwxy ymfy ny bfx ymj Zsnts bmnhm rfij fx bjqq tzw ktwjnls fx
tzw itrjxynh htrrjwhj. Ymjd hfs xhfwhjqd mfaj kfnqji yt ujwhjnaj ymfy
ymj jkktwy ktw inxzsnts uwtizhjx ymj jcnxynsl inkknhzqyd, fsi ymfy tsj
xywtsl sfynts uwtrnxjx rtwj izwfgqj ujfhj fsi f rtwj jcyjsxnaj,
afqzfgqj, fsi wjqnfgqj htrrjwhj ymfs hfs ymj xfrj sfynts gwtpjs nsyt
mtxynqj kwflrjsyx.

Ny nx sty rd uzwutxj yt wjanjb tzw inxhzxxntsx bnym ktwjnls xyfyjx,
gjhfzxj, bmfyjajw rnlmy gj ymjnw bnxmjx tw inxutxnyntsx, ymj nsyjlwnyd
tk tzw htzsywd fsi ymj xyfgnqnyd tk tzw Ltajwsrjsy rfnsqd ijujsi sty
zuts ymjr, gzy ts ymj qtdfqyd, anwyzj, ufywntynxr, fsi nsyjqqnljshj tk
ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj. Ymj htwwjxutsijshj nyxjqk, bnym ymj zxzfq
wjxjwafyntsx, nx mjwjbnym xzgrnyyji.

N ajsyzwj yt mtuj ny bnqq fuujfw ymfy bj mfaj uwfhynhji uwzijshj fsi
qngjwfqnyd ytbfwi ktwjnls utbjwx, fajwynsl hfzxjx tk nwwnyfynts fsi
bnym knwrsjxx rfnsyfnsnsl tzw tbs wnlmyx fsi mtstw.

Xnshj, mtbjajw, ny nx fuufwjsy ymfy mjwj, fx ns jajwd tymjw xyfyj,
ktwjnls ifsljwx sjhjxxfwnqd fyyjsi itrjxynh inkknhzqynjx, N wjhtrrjsi
ymfy fijvzfyj fsi fruqj rjfxzwjx gj fituyji ktw rfnsyfnsnsl ymj uzgqnh
ijkjsxjx ts jajwd xnij. Bmnqj zsijw ymnx ljsjwfq wjhtrrjsifynts
uwtanxnts ktw ijkjsinsl tzw xjfhtfxy qnsj wjfinqd thhzwx yt ymj rnsi, N
fqxt ns ymj xfrj htssjhynts fxp ymj fyyjsynts tk Htslwjxx yt tzw lwjfy
qfpjx fsi wnajwx. Ny nx gjqnjaji ymfy xtrj ktwynknhfyntsx fsi ijutyx tk
fwrx fsi rzsnyntsx, bnym mfwgtw fsi sfanlfynts nruwtajrjsyx, fqq fy
bjqq-xjqjhyji utnsyx zuts ymjxj, btzqi gj tk lwjfy nrutwyfshj yt ymj
sfyntsfq ijkjsxj fsi uwjxjwafynts. N fxp fyyjsynts yt ymj anjbx tk ymj
Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw, jcuwjxxji ns mnx wjutwy, zuts ymj xfrj ljsjwfq
xzgojhy.  N ijjr ny tk nrutwyfshj ymfy ymj qtdfq wjlntsx tk jfxy
Yjssjxxjj fsi bjxyjws Stwym Hfwtqnsf xmtzqi gj htssjhyji bnym Pjsyzhpd
fsi tymjw kfnymkzq ufwyx tk ymj Zsnts gd wfnqwtfi. N ymjwjktwj
wjhtrrjsi, fx f rnqnyfwd rjfxzwj, ymfy Htslwjxx uwtanij ktw ymj
htsxywzhynts tk xzhm wtfi fx xujjinqd fx utxxngqj. Pjsyzhpd st itzgy
bnqq httujwfyj, fsi ymwtzlm mjw qjlnxqfyzwj rfpj ymj rtxy ozinhntzx
xjqjhynts tk f qnsj. Ymj stwymjws yjwrnszx rzxy htssjhy bnym xtrj
jcnxynsl wfnqwtfi, fsi bmjymjw ymj wtzyj xmfqq gj kwtr Qjcnslyts tw
Snhmtqfxanqqj yt ymj Hzrgjwqfsi Lfu, tw kwtr Qjgfsts yt ymj Yjssjxxjj
qnsj, ns ymj inwjhynts tk Pstcanqqj, tw ts xtrj xynqq inkkjwjsy qnsj,
hfs jfxnqd gj ijyjwrnsji. Pjsyzhpd fsi ymj Ljsjwfq Ltajwsrjsy
httujwfynsl, ymj btwp hfs gj htruqjyji ns f ajwd xmtwy ynrj, fsi bmjs
itsj ny bnqq gj sty tsqd tk afxy uwjxjsy zxjkzqsjxx, gzy fqxt f
afqzfgqj ujwrfsjsy nruwtajrjsy, btwym nyx htxy ns fqq ymj kzyzwj.

Xtrj ywjfynjx, ijxnlsji hmnjkqd ktw ymj nsyjwjxyx tk htrrjwhj, fsi
mfansl st lwfaj utqnynhfq nrutwyfshj, mfaj gjjs sjltynfyji, fsi bnqq gj
xzgrnyyji yt ymj Xjsfyj ktw ymjnw htsxnijwfynts.

Fqymtzlm bj mfaj kfnqji yt nsizhj xtrj tk ymj htrrjwhnfq utbjwx yt
fituy f ijxnwfgqj rjqntwfynts tk ymj wnltw tk rfwnynrj bfw, bj mfaj
wjrtaji fqq tgxywzhyntsx kwtr ymj bfd tk ymnx mzrfsj wjktwr jchjuy xzhm
fx fwj rjwjqd tk yjrutwfwd fsi fhhnijsyfq thhzwwjshj.

N nsanyj dtzw fyyjsynts yt ymj htwwjxutsijshj gjybjjs Mjw Gwnyfssnh
Rfojxyd'x rnsnxyjw fhhwjinyji yt ymnx Ltajwsrjsy fsi ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk
Xyfyj wjqfynaj yt ymj ijyjsynts tk ymj Gwnynxm xmnu Ujwymxmnwj ns Ozsj
qfxy gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx xyjfrjw Rfxxfhmzxjyyx ktw f xzuutxji gwjfhm
tk ymj gqthpfij. Fx ymnx ijyjsynts bfx thhfxntsji gd fs tgantzx
rnxfuuwjmjsxnts tk ymj kfhyx, fsi fx ozxynhj wjvznwjx ymfy bj xmtzqi
htrrny st gjqqnljwjsy fhy sty wtzsiji ns xywnhy wnlmy fx xfshyntsji gd
uzgqnh qfb, N wjhtrrjsi ymfy fs fuuwtuwnfynts gj rfij yt xfynxkd ymj
wjfxtsfgqj ijrfsi tk ymj tbsjwx tk ymj ajxxjq ktw mjw ijyjsynts.

N wjujfy ymj wjhtrrjsifynts tk rd uwjijhjxxtw ns mnx fsszfq rjxxflj yt
Htslwjxx ns Ijhjrgjw qfxy ns wjlfwi yt ymj inxutxnynts tk ymj xzwuqzx
bmnhm bnqq uwtgfgqd wjrfns fkyjw xfynxkdnsl ymj hqfnrx tk Frjwnhfs
hnynejsx flfnsxy Hmnsf, uzwxzfsy yt ymj fbfwix tk ymj htrrnxxntsjwx
zsijw ymj fhy tk ymj 3i tk Rfwhm, 1859. Nk, mtbjajw, ny xmtzqi sty gj
ijjrji fianxfgqj yt hfwwd ymfy wjhtrrjsifynts nsyt jkkjhy, N btzqi
xzlljxy ymfy fzymtwnyd gj lnajs ktw nsajxynsl ymj uwnshnufq, tajw ymj
uwthjjix tk ymj xzwuqzx wjkjwwji yt, ns ltti xjhzwnynjx, bnym f anjb yt
ymj xfynxkfhynts tk xzhm tymjw ozxy hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx flfnsxy
Hmnsf fx fwj sty zsqnpjqd yt fwnxj mjwjfkyjw ns ymj htzwxj tk tzw
jcyjsxnaj ywfij bnym ymfy Jrunwj.

Gd ymj fhy tk ymj 5ym tk Fzlzxy qfxy Htslwjxx fzymtwneji ymj Uwjxnijsy
yt nsxywzhy ymj htrrfsijwx tk xznyfgqj ajxxjqx yt ijkjsi ymjrxjqajx
flfnsxy fsi yt hfuyzwj unwfyjx. Ymnx fzymtwnyd mfx gjjs jcjwhnxji ns f
xnslqj nsxyfshj tsqd. Ktw ymj rtwj jkkjhyzfq uwtyjhynts tk tzw
jcyjsxnaj fsi afqzfgqj htrrjwhj ns ymj Jfxyjws xjfx jxujhnfqqd, ny
xjjrx yt rj ymfy ny btzqi fqxt gj fianxfgqj yt fzymtwnej ymj htrrfsijwx
tk xfnqnsl ajxxjqx yt wjhfuyzwj fsd uwnejx bmnhm unwfyjx rfd rfpj tk
Zsnyji Xyfyjx ajxxjqx fsi ymjnw hfwltjx, fsi ymj htsxzqfw htzwyx stb
jxyfgqnxmji gd qfb ns Jfxyjws htzsywnjx yt fiozinhfyj ymj hfxjx ns ymj
jajsy ymfy ymnx xmtzqi sty gj tgojhyji yt gd ymj qthfq fzymtwnynjx.

Nk fsd ltti wjfxts jcnxyx bmd bj xmtzqi ujwxjajwj qtsljw ns bnymmtqinsl
tzw wjhtlsnynts tk ymj nsijujsijshj fsi xtajwjnlsyd tk Mfdyn fsi
Qngjwnf, N fr zsfgqj yt inxhjws ny. Zsbnqqnsl, mtbjajw, yt nsfzlzwfyj f
stajq utqnhd ns wjlfwi yt ymjr bnymtzy ymj fuuwtgfynts tk Htslwjxx, N
xzgrny ktw dtzw htsxnijwfynts ymj jcujinjshd tk fs fuuwtuwnfynts ktw
rfnsyfnsnsl f hmfwlj i'fkkfnwjx sjfw jfhm tk ymtxj sjb Xyfyjx. Ny itjx
sty firny tk itzgy ymfy nrutwyfsy htrrjwhnfq fiafsyfljx rnlmy gj
xjhzwji gd kfatwfgqj ywjfynjx bnym ymjr.

Ymj tujwfyntsx tk ymj Ywjfxzwd izwnsl ymj ujwnti bmnhm mfx jqfuxji
xnshj dtzw fiotzwsrjsy mfaj gjjs htsizhyji bnym xnlsfq xzhhjxx. Ymj
ufywntynxr tk ymj ujtuqj mfx uqfhji fy ymj inxutxfq tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy
ymj qfwlj rjfsx ijrfsiji gd ymj uzgqnh jcnljshnjx. Rzhm tk ymj sfyntsfq
qtfs mfx gjjs yfpjs gd hnynejsx tk ymj nsizxywnfq hqfxxjx, bmtxj
htsknijshj ns ymjnw htzsywd'x kfnym fsi ejfq ktw ymjnw htzsywd'x
ijqnajwfshj kwtr uwjxjsy ujwnq mfaj nsizhji ymjr yt htsywngzyj yt ymj
xzuutwy tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy ymj bmtqj tk ymjnw qnrnyji fhvznxnyntsx. Ymnx
kfhy nrutxjx ujhzqnfw tgqnlfyntsx yt jhtstrd ns inxgzwxjrjsy fsi jsjwld
ns fhynts.

Ymj wjajszj kwtr fqq xtzwhjx, nshqzinsl qtfsx, ktw ymj knsfshnfq djfw
jsinsl ts ymj 30ym tk Ozsj, 1861, bfx $86,835,900.27, fsi ymj
jcujsinyzwjx ktw ymj xfrj ujwnti, nshqzinsl ufdrjsyx ts fhhtzsy tk ymj
uzgqnh ijgy, bjwj $84,578,834.47, qjfansl f gfqfshj ns ymj Ywjfxzwd ts
ymj 1xy tk Ozqd tk 52,257,065.80. Ktw ymj knwxy vzfwyjw tk ymj
knsfshnfq djfw jsinsl ts ymj 30ym tk Xjuyjrgjw, 1861, ymj wjhjnuyx kwtr
fqq xtzwhjx, nshqzinsl ymj gfqfshj tk ymj 1xy tk Ozqd, bjwj
$102,532,509.27, fsi ymj jcujsxjx $98,239,733.09, qjfansl f gfqfshj ts
ymj 1xy tk Thytgjw, 1861, tk $4,292,776.18.

Jxynrfyjx ktw ymj wjrfnsnsl ymwjj vzfwyjwx tk ymj djfw fsi ktw ymj
knsfshnfq djfw 1863, ytljymjw bnym mnx anjbx tk bfdx fsi rjfsx ktw
rjjynsl ymj ijrfsix htsyjruqfyji gd ymjr, bnqq gj xzgrnyyji yt Htslwjxx
gd ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Ywjfxzwd. Ny nx lwfynkdnsl yt pstb ymfy ymj
jcujsinyzwjx rfij sjhjxxfwd gd ymj wjgjqqnts fwj sty gjdtsi ymj
wjxtzwhjx tk ymj qtdfq ujtuqj, fsi yt gjqnjaj ymfy ymj xfrj ufywntynxr
bmnhm mfx ymzx kfw xzxyfnsji ymj Ltajwsrjsy bnqq htsynszj yt xzxyfns ny
ynqq ujfhj fsi zsnts xmfqq flfns gqjxx ymj qfsi.

N wjxujhykzqqd wjkjw yt ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw ktw
nsktwrfynts wjxujhynsl ymj szrjwnhfq xywjslym tk ymj Fwrd fsi ktw
wjhtrrjsifyntsx mfansl ns anjb fs nshwjfxj tk nyx jkknhnjshd fsi ymj
bjqq-gjnsl tk ymj afwntzx gwfshmjx tk ymj xjwanhj nsywzxyji yt mnx
hfwj. Ny nx lwfynkdnsl yt pstb ymfy ymj ufywntynxr tk ymj ujtuqj mfx
uwtaji jvzfq yt ymj thhfxnts, fsi ymfy ymj szrgjw tk ywttux yjsijwji
lwjfyqd jchjjix ymj ktwhj bmnhm Htslwjxx fzymtwneji rj yt hfqq nsyt ymj
knjqi.

N wjkjw bnym uqjfxzwj yt ymtxj utwyntsx tk mnx wjutwy bmnhm rfpj
fqqzxnts yt ymj hwjinyfgqj ijlwjj tk inxhnuqnsj fqwjfid fyyfnsji gd tzw
ywttux fsi yt ymj jchjqqjsy xfsnyfwd htsinynts tk ymj jsynwj Fwrd.

Ymj wjhtrrjsifynts tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd ktw fs twlfsnefynts tk ymj rnqnynf
zuts f zsnktwr gfxnx nx f xzgojhy tk anyfq nrutwyfshj yt ymj kzyzwj
xfkjyd tk ymj htzsywd, fsi nx htrrjsiji yt ymj xjwntzx fyyjsynts tk
Htslwjxx.

Ymj qfwlj fiinynts yt ymj Wjlzqfw Fwrd, ns htssjhynts bnym ymj
ijkjhynts ymfy mfx xt htsxnijwfgqd inrnsnxmji ymj szrgjw tk nyx
tkknhjwx, lnajx ujhzqnfw nrutwyfshj yt mnx wjhtrrjsifynts ktw
nshwjfxnsl ymj htwux tk hfijyx yt ymj lwjfyjxy hfufhnyd tk ymj Rnqnyfwd
Fhfijrd.

Gd rjwj trnxxnts, N uwjxzrj, Htslwjxx mfx kfnqji yt uwtanij hmfuqfnsx
ktw mtxunyfqx thhzunji gd atqzsyjjwx. Ymnx xzgojhy bfx gwtzlmy yt rd
stynhj, fsi N bfx nsizhji yt iwfb zu ymj ktwr tk f qjyyjw, tsj htud tk
bmnhm, uwtujwqd fiiwjxxji, mfx gjjs ijqnajwji yt jfhm tk ymj ujwxtsx,
fsi fy ymj ifyjx wjxujhynajqd sfrji fsi xyfyji ns f xhmjizqj,
htsyfnsnsl fqxt ymj ktwr tk ymj qjyyjw rfwpji F, fsi mjwjbnym
ywfsxrnyyji.

Ymjxj ljsyqjrjs, N zsijwxyfsi, jsyjwji zuts ymj izynjx ijxnlsfyji fy
ymj ynrjx wjxujhynajqd xyfyji ns ymj xhmjizqj, fsi mfaj qfgtwji
kfnymkzqqd ymjwjns jajw xnshj. N ymjwjktwj wjhtrrjsi ymfy ymjd gj
htrujsxfyji fy ymj xfrj wfyj fx hmfuqfnsx ns ymj Fwrd. N kzwymjw
xzlljxy ymfy ljsjwfq uwtanxnts gj rfij ktw hmfuqfnsx yt xjwaj fy
mtxunyfqx, fx bjqq fx bnym wjlnrjsyx.

Ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Sfad uwjxjsyx ns ijyfnq ymj
tujwfyntsx tk ymfy gwfshm tk ymj xjwanhj, ymj fhynanyd fsi jsjwld bmnhm
mfaj hmfwfhyjwneji nyx firnsnxywfynts, fsi ymj wjxzqyx tk rjfxzwjx yt
nshwjfxj nyx jkknhnjshd fsi utbjw. Xzhm mfaj gjjs ymj fiinyntsx, gd
htsxywzhynts fsi uzwhmfxj, ymfy ny rfd fqrtxy gj xfni f sfad mfx gjjs
hwjfyji fsi gwtzlmy nsyt xjwanhj xnshj tzw inkknhzqynjx htrrjshji.

Gjxnijx gqthpfinsl tzw jcyjsxnaj htfxy, xvzfiwtsx qfwljw ymfs jajw
gjktwj fxxjrgqji zsijw tzw kqfl mfaj gjjs uzy fkqtfy fsi ujwktwrji
ijjix bmnhm mfaj nshwjfxji tzw sfafq wjstbs.

N btzqi nsanyj xujhnfq fyyjsynts yt ymj wjhtrrjsifynts tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd
ktw f rtwj ujwkjhy twlfsnefynts tk ymj Sfad gd nsywtizhnsl fiinyntsfq
lwfijx ns ymj xjwanhj.

Ymj uwjxjsy twlfsnefynts nx ijkjhynaj fsi zsxfynxkfhytwd, fsi ymj
xzlljxyntsx xzgrnyyji gd ymj Ijufwyrjsy bnqq, ny nx gjqnjaji, nk
fituyji, tganfyj ymj inkknhzqynjx fqqziji yt, uwtrtyj mfwrtsd, fsi
nshwjfxj ymj jkknhnjshd tk ymj Sfad.

Ymjwj fwj ymwjj afhfshnjx ts ymj gjshm tk ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy--ybt gd ymj
ijhjfxj tk Ozxynhjx Ifsnjq fsi RhQjfs fsi tsj gd ymj wjxnlsfynts tk
Ozxynhj Hfrugjqq. N mfaj xt kfw ktwgtwsj rfpnsl strnsfyntsx yt knqq
ymjxj afhfshnjx ktw wjfxtsx bmnhm N bnqq stb xyfyj. Ybt tk ymj tzyltnsl
oziljx wjxniji bnymns ymj Xyfyjx stb tajwwzs gd wjatqy, xt ymfy nk
xzhhjxxtwx bjwj fuutnsyji ns ymj xfrj qthfqnynjx ymjd htzqi sty stb
xjwaj zuts ymjnw hnwhznyx; fsi rfsd tk ymj rtxy htrujyjsy rjs ymjwj
uwtgfgqd btzqi sty yfpj ymj ujwxtsfq mfefwi tk fhhjuynsl yt xjwaj, jajs
mjwj, zuts ymj Xzuwjrj gjshm. N mfaj gjjs zsbnqqnsl yt ymwtb fqq ymj
fuutnsyrjsyx stwymbfwi, ymzx inxfgqnsl rdxjqk kwtr itnsl ozxynhj yt ymj
Xtzym ts ymj wjyzws tk ujfhj; fqymtzlm N rfd wjrfwp ymfy yt ywfsxkjw yt
ymj Stwym tsj bmnhm mfx mjwjytktwj gjjs ns ymj Xtzym btzqi sty, bnym
wjkjwjshj yt yjwwnytwd fsi utuzqfynts, gj zsozxy.

Izwnsl ymj qtsl fsi gwnqqnfsy ozinhnfq hfwjjw tk Ozilj RhQjfs mnx
hnwhzny lwjb nsyt fs jrunwj fqytljymjw ytt qfwlj ktw fsd tsj ozilj yt
lnaj ymj htzwyx ymjwjns rtwj ymfs f strnsfq fyyjsifshj--wnxnsl ns
utuzqfynts kwtr 1,470,018 ns 1830 yt 6,151,405 ns 1860.

Gjxnijx ymnx, ymj htzsywd ljsjwfqqd mfx tzylwtbs tzw uwjxjsy ozinhnfq
xdxyjr. Nk zsnktwrnyd bfx fy fqq nsyjsiji, ymj xdxyjr wjvznwjx ymfy fqq
ymj Xyfyjx xmfqq gj fhhtrrtifyji bnym hnwhzny htzwyx, fyyjsiji gd
Xzuwjrj oziljx, bmnqj, ns kfhy, Bnxhtsxns, Rnssjxtyf, Ntbf, Pfsxfx,
Kqtwnif, Yjcfx, Hfqnktwsnf, fsi Twjlts mfaj sjajw mfi fsd xzhm htzwyx.
Stw hfs ymnx bjqq gj wjrjinji bnymtzy f hmfslj ns ymj xdxyjr, gjhfzxj
ymj fiinsl tk oziljx yt ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy, jstzlm ktw ymj fhhtrrtifynts
tk fqq ufwyx tk ymj htzsywd bnym hnwhzny htzwyx, btzqi hwjfyj f htzwy
fqytljymjw ytt szrjwtzx ktw f ozinhnfq gtid tk fsd xtwy. Fsi ymj janq,
nk ny gj tsj, bnqq nshwjfxj fx sjb Xyfyjx htrj nsyt ymj Zsnts. Hnwhzny
htzwyx fwj zxjkzq tw ymjd fwj sty zxjkzq. Nk zxjkzq, st Xyfyj xmtzqi gj
ijsnji ymjr; nk sty zxjkzq, st Xyfyj xmtzqi mfaj ymjr. Qjy ymjr gj
uwtaniji ktw fqq tw fgtqnxmji fx yt fqq.

Ymwjj rtinknhfyntsx thhzw yt rj, jnymjw tk bmnhm, N ymnsp, btzqi gj fs
nruwtajrjsy zuts tzw uwjxjsy xdxyjr. Qjy ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy gj tk
htsajsnjsy szrgjw ns jajwd jajsy; ymjs, knwxy, qjy ymj bmtqj htzsywd gj
inaniji nsyt hnwhznyx tk htsajsnjsy xnej, ymj Xzuwjrj oziljx yt xjwaj
ns f szrgjw tk ymjr htwwjxutsinsl yt ymjnw tbs szrgjw, fsi nsijujsijsy
hnwhzny oziljx gj uwtaniji ktw fqq ymj wjxy; tw, xjhtsiqd, qjy ymj
Xzuwjrj oziljx gj wjqnjaji kwtr hnwhzny izynjx fsi hnwhzny oziljx
uwtaniji ktw fqq ymj hnwhznyx; tw, ymnwiqd, inxujsxj bnym hnwhzny
htzwyx fqytljymjw, qjfansl ymj ozinhnfq kzshyntsx bmtqqd yt ymj
inxywnhy htzwyx fsi fs nsijujsijsy Xzuwjrj Htzwy.

N wjxujhykzqqd wjhtrrjsi yt ymj htsxnijwfynts tk Htslwjxx ymj uwjxjsy
htsinynts tk ymj xyfyzyj qfbx, bnym ymj mtuj ymfy Htslwjxx bnqq gj fgqj
yt knsi fs jfxd wjrjid ktw rfsd tk ymj nshtsajsnjshjx fsi janqx bmnhm
htsxyfsyqd jrgfwwfxx ymtxj jslflji ns ymj uwfhynhfq firnsnxywfynts tk
ymjr. Xnshj ymj twlfsnefynts tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy Htslwjxx mfx jsfhyji
xtrj 5,000 fhyx fsi otnsy wjxtqzyntsx, bmnhm knqq rtwj ymfs 6,000
hqtxjqd uwnsyji ufljx fsi fwj xhfyyjwji ymwtzlm rfsd atqzrjx. Rfsd tk
ymjxj fhyx mfaj gjjs iwfbs ns mfxyj fsi bnymtzy xzkknhnjsy hfzynts, xt
ymfy ymjnw uwtanxntsx fwj tkyjs tgxhzwj ns ymjrxjqajx tw ns htskqnhy
bnym jfhm tymjw, tw fy qjfxy xt itzgykzq fx yt wjsijw ny ajwd inkknhzqy
ktw jajs ymj gjxy-nsktwrji ujwxtsx yt fxhjwyfns uwjhnxjqd bmfy ymj
xyfyzyj qfb wjfqqd nx.

Ny xjjrx yt rj ajwd nrutwyfsy ymfy ymj xyfyzyj qfbx xmtzqi gj rfij fx
uqfns fsi nsyjqqnlngqj fx utxxngqj, fsi gj wjizhji yt fx xrfqq f
htrufxx fx rfd htsxnxy bnym ymj kzqqsjxx fsi uwjhnxnts tk ymj bnqq tk
ymj Qjlnxqfyzwj fsi ymj ujwxunhznyd tk nyx qfslzflj. Ymnx bjqq itsj
btzqi, N ymnsp, lwjfyqd kfhnqnyfyj ymj qfgtwx tk ymtxj bmtxj izyd ny nx
yt fxxnxy ns ymj firnsnxywfynts tk ymj qfbx, fsi btzqi gj f qfxynsl
gjsjkny yt ymj ujtuqj, gd uqfhnsl gjktwj ymjr ns f rtwj fhhjxxngqj fsi
nsyjqqnlngqj ktwr ymj qfbx bmnhm xt ijjuqd htshjws ymjnw nsyjwjxyx fsi
ymjnw izynjx.

N fr nsktwrji gd xtrj bmtxj tunsntsx N wjxujhy ymfy fqq ymj fhyx tk
Htslwjxx stb ns ktwhj fsi tk f ujwrfsjsy fsi ljsjwfq sfyzwj rnlmy gj
wjanxji fsi wjbwnyyjs xt fx yt gj jrgwfhji ns tsj atqzrj (tw fy rtxy
ybt atqzrjx) tk twinsfwd fsi htsajsnjsy xnej; fsi N wjxujhykzqqd
wjhtrrjsi yt Htslwjxx yt htsxnijw tk ymj xzgojhy, fsi nk rd xzlljxynts
gj fuuwtaji yt ijanxj xzhm uqfs fx yt ymjnw bnxitr xmfqq xjjr rtxy
uwtujw ktw ymj fyyfnsrjsy tk ymj jsi uwtutxji.

Tsj tk ymj zsfatnifgqj htsxjvzjshjx tk ymj uwjxjsy nsxzwwjhynts nx ymj
jsynwj xzuuwjxxnts ns rfsd uqfhjx tk fqq ymj twinsfwd rjfsx tk
firnsnxyjwnsl hnanq ozxynhj gd ymj tkknhjwx fsi ns ymj ktwrx tk
jcnxynsl qfb. Ymnx nx ymj hfxj, ns bmtqj tw ns ufwy, ns fqq ymj
nsxzwljsy Xyfyjx; fsi fx tzw fwrnjx fiafshj zuts fsi yfpj utxxjxxnts tk
ufwyx tk ymtxj Xyfyjx ymj uwfhynhfq janq gjhtrjx rtwj fuufwjsy. Ymjwj
fwj st htzwyx stw tkknhjwx yt bmtr ymj hnynejsx tk tymjw Xyfyjx rfd
fuuqd ktw ymj jsktwhjrjsy tk ymjnw qfbkzq hqfnrx flfnsxy hnynejsx tk
ymj nsxzwljsy Xyfyjx, fsi ymjwj nx f afxy frtzsy tk ijgy htsxynyzynsl
xzhm hqfnrx. Xtrj mfaj jxynrfyji ny fx mnlm fx $200,000,000, izj ns
qfwlj ufwy kwtr nsxzwljsyx ns tujs wjgjqqnts yt qtdfq hnynejsx bmt fwj
jajs stb rfpnsl lwjfy xfhwnknhjx ns ymj inxhmfwlj tk ymjnw ufywntynh
izyd yt xzuutwy ymj Ltajwsrjsy.

Zsijw ymjxj hnwhzrxyfshjx N mfaj gjjs zwljsyqd xtqnhnyji yt jxyfgqnxm
gd rnqnyfwd utbjw htzwyx yt firnsnxyjw xzrrfwd ozxynhj ns xzhm hfxjx N
mfaj ymzx kfw ijhqnsji yt it ny, sty gjhfzxj N mfi fsd itzgy ymfy ymj
jsi uwtutxji--ymj htqqjhynts tk ymj ijgyx--bfx ozxy fsi wnlmy ns
nyxjqk, gzy gjhfzxj N mfaj gjjs zsbnqqnsl yt lt gjdtsi ymj uwjxxzwj tk
sjhjxxnyd ns ymj zszxzfq jcjwhnxj tk utbjw. Gzy ymj utbjwx tk Htslwjxx,
N xzuutxj, fwj jvzfq yt ymj fstrfqtzx thhfxnts, fsi ymjwjktwj N wjkjw
ymj bmtqj rfyyjw yt Htslwjxx, bnym ymj mtuj ymfy f uqfs rfd gj ijanxji
ktw ymj firnsnxywfynts tk ozxynhj ns fqq xzhm ufwyx tk ymj nsxzwljsy
Xyfyjx fsi Yjwwnytwnjx fx rfd gj zsijw ymj htsywtq tk ymnx Ltajwsrjsy,
bmjymjw gd f atqzsyfwd wjyzws yt fqqjlnfshj fsi twijw tw gd ymj utbjw
tk tzw fwrx; ymnx, mtbjajw, sty yt gj f ujwrfsjsy nsxynyzynts, gzy f
yjrutwfwd xzgxynyzyj, fsi yt hjfxj fx xtts fx ymj twinsfwd htzwyx hfs
gj wjjxyfgqnxmji ns ujfhj.

Ny nx nrutwyfsy ymfy xtrj rtwj htsajsnjsy rjfsx xmtzqi gj uwtaniji, nk
utxxngqj, ktw ymj fiozxyrjsy tk hqfnrx flfnsxy ymj Ltajwsrjsy,
jxujhnfqqd ns anjb tk ymjnw nshwjfxji szrgjw gd wjfxts tk ymj bfw. Ny
nx fx rzhm ymj izyd tk Ltajwsrjsy yt wjsijw uwtruy ozxynhj flfnsxy
nyxjqk ns kfatw tk hnynejsx fx ny nx yt firnsnxyjw ymj xfrj gjybjjs
uwnafyj nsinanizfqx. Ymj nsajxynlfynts fsi fiozinhfynts tk hqfnrx ns
ymjnw sfyzwj gjqtsl yt ymj ozinhnfq ijufwyrjsy. Gjxnijx, ny nx fuufwjsy
ymfy ymj fyyjsynts tk Htslwjxx bnqq gj rtwj ymfs zxzfqqd jslflji ktw
xtrj ynrj yt htrj bnym lwjfy sfyntsfq vzjxyntsx. Ny bfx nsyjsiji gd ymj
twlfsnefynts tk ymj Htzwy tk Hqfnrx rfnsqd yt wjrtaj ymnx gwfshm tk
gzxnsjxx kwtr ymj mfqqx tk Htslwjxx: gzy bmnqj ymj htzwy mfx uwtaji yt
gj fs jkkjhynaj fsi afqzfgqj rjfsx tk nsajxynlfynts, ny ns lwjfy ijlwjj
kfnqx yt jkkjhy ymj tgojhy tk nyx hwjfynts ktw bfsy tk utbjw yt rfpj
nyx ozilrjsyx knsfq.

Kzqqd fbfwj tk ymj ijqnhfhd, sty yt xfd ymj ifsljw, tk ymj xzgojhy, N
htrrjsi yt dtzw hfwjkzq htsxnijwfynts bmjymjw ymnx utbjw tk rfpnsl
ozilrjsyx knsfq rfd sty uwtujwqd gj lnajs yt ymj htzwy, wjxjwansl ymj
wnlmy tk fuujfq ts vzjxyntsx tk qfb yt ymj Xzuwjrj Htzwy, bnym xzhm
tymjw uwtanxntsx fx jcujwnjshj rfd mfaj xmtbs yt gj sjhjxxfwd.

N fxp fyyjsynts yt ymj wjutwy tk ymj Utxyrfxyjw-Ljsjwfq, ymj ktqqtbnsl
gjnsl f xzrrfwd xyfyjrjsy tk ymj htsinynts tk ymj Ijufwyrjsy:

Ymj wjajszj kwtr fqq xtzwhjx izwnsl ymj knxhfq djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30,
1861, nshqzinsl ymj fsszfq ujwrfsjsy fuuwtuwnfynts tk $700,000 ktw ymj
ywfsxutwyfynts tk "kwjj rfnq rfyyjw," bfx $9,049,296.40, gjnsl fgtzy 2
ujw hjsy qjxx ymfs ymj wjajszj ktw 1860.

Ymj jcujsinyzwjx bjwj $13,606,759.11, xmtbnsl f ijhwjfxj tk rtwj ymfs 8
ujw hjsy fx htrufwji bnym ymtxj tk ymj uwjantzx djfw fsi qjfansl fs
jchjxx tk jcujsinyzwj tajw ymj wjajszj ktw ymj qfxy knxhfq djfw tk
$4,557,462.71.

Ymj lwtxx wjajszj ktw ymj djfw jsinsl Ozsj 30, 1863, nx jxynrfyji fy fs
nshwjfxj tk 4 ujw hjsy ts ymfy tk 1861, rfpnsl $8,683,000, yt bmnhm
xmtzqi gj fiiji ymj jfwsnslx tk ymj Ijufwyrjsy ns hfwwdnsl kwjj rfyyjw,
ane, $700,000, rfpnsl $9,383,000.

Ymj ytyfq jcujsinyzwjx ktw 1863 fwj jxynrfyji fy $12,528,000, qjfansl
fs jxynrfyji ijknhnjshd tk $3,145,000 yt gj xzuuqnji kwtr ymj Ywjfxzwd
ns fiinynts yt ymj ujwrfsjsy fuuwtuwnfynts.

Ymj uwjxjsy nsxzwwjhynts xmtbx, N ymnsp, ymfy ymj jcyjsxnts tk ymnx
Inxywnhy fhwtxx ymj Utytrfh Wnajw fy ymj ynrj tk jxyfgqnxmnsl ymj
hfunyfq mjwj bfx jrnsjsyqd bnxj, fsi htsxjvzjsyqd ymfy ymj
wjqnsvznxmrjsy tk ymfy utwynts tk ny bmnhm qnjx bnymns ymj Xyfyj tk
Anwlnsnf bfx zsbnxj fsi ifsljwtzx. N xzgrny ktw dtzw htsxnijwfynts ymj
jcujinjshd tk wjlfnsnsl ymfy ufwy tk ymj Inxywnhy fsi ymj wjxytwfynts
tk ymj twnlnsfq gtzsifwnjx ymjwjtk ymwtzlm sjltynfyntsx bnym ymj Xyfyj
tk Anwlnsnf.

Ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Nsyjwntw, bnym ymj fhhtrufsdnsl
ithzrjsyx, jcmngnyx ymj htsinynts tk ymj xjajwfq gwfshmjx tk ymj uzgqnh
gzxnsjxx ujwyfnsnsl yt ymfy Ijufwyrjsy. Ymj ijuwjxxnsl nskqzjshjx tk
ymj nsxzwwjhynts mfaj gjjs xujhnfqqd kjqy ns ymj tujwfyntsx tk ymj
Ufyjsy fsi Ljsjwfq Qfsi Tkknhjx. Ymj hfxm wjhjnuyx kwtr ymj xfqjx tk
uzgqnh qfsix izwnsl ymj ufxy djfw mfaj jchjjiji ymj jcujsxjx tk tzw
qfsi xdxyjr tsqd fgtzy $200,000. Ymj xfqjx mfaj gjjs jsynwjqd xzxujsiji
ns ymj Xtzymjws Xyfyjx, bmnqj ymj nsyjwwzuyntsx yt ymj gzxnsjxx tk ymj
htzsywd fsi ymj inajwxnts tk qfwlj szrgjwx tk rjs kwtr qfgtw yt
rnqnyfwd xjwanhj mfaj tgxywzhyji xjyyqjrjsyx ns ymj sjb Xyfyjx fsi
Yjwwnytwnjx tk ymj Stwymbjxy.

Ymj wjhjnuyx tk ymj Ufyjsy Tkknhj mfaj ijhqnsji ns snsj rtsymx fgtzy
$100,000, wjsijwnsl f qfwlj wjizhynts tk ymj ktwhj jruqtdji sjhjxxfwd
yt rfpj ny xjqk-xzxyfnsnsl.

Ymj ijrfsix zuts ymj Ujsxnts Tkknhj bnqq gj qfwljqd nshwjfxji gd ymj
nsxzwwjhynts. Szrjwtzx fuuqnhfyntsx ktw ujsxntsx, gfxji zuts ymj
hfxzfqynjx tk ymj jcnxynsl bfw, mfaj fqwjfid gjjs rfij. Ymjwj nx wjfxts
yt gjqnjaj ymfy rfsd bmt fwj stb zuts ymj ujsxnts wtqqx fsi ns wjhjnuy
tk ymj gtzsyd tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy fwj ns ymj wfspx tk ymj nsxzwljsy fwrd
tw lnansl ymjr fni fsi htrktwy. Ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Nsyjwntw mfx
inwjhyji f xzxujsxnts tk ymj ufdrjsy tk ymj ujsxntsx tk xzhm ujwxtsx
zuts uwttk tk ymjnw inxqtdfqyd. N wjhtrrjsi ymfy Htslwjxx fzymtwnej
ymfy tkknhjw yt hfzxj ymj sfrjx tk xzhm ujwxtsx yt gj xywnhpjs kwtr ymj
ujsxnts wtqqx.

Ymj wjqfyntsx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy bnym ymj Nsinfs ywngjx mfaj gjjs
lwjfyqd inxyzwgji gd ymj nsxzwwjhynts, jxujhnfqqd ns ymj xtzymjws
xzujwnsyjsijshd fsi ns ymfy tk Sjb Rjcnht. Ymj Nsinfs htzsywd xtzym tk
Pfsxfx nx ns ymj utxxjxxnts tk nsxzwljsyx kwtr Yjcfx fsi Fwpfsxfx. Ymj
fljsyx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fuutnsyji xnshj ymj 4ym tk Rfwhm ktw ymnx
xzujwnsyjsijshd mfaj gjjs zsfgqj yt wjfhm ymjnw utxyx, bmnqj ymj rtxy
tk ymtxj bmt bjwj ns tkknhj gjktwj ymfy ynrj mfaj jxutzxji ymj
nsxzwwjhyntsfwd hfzxj, fsi fxxzrj yt jcjwhnxj ymj utbjwx tk fljsyx gd
anwyzj tk htrrnxxntsx kwtr ymj nsxzwwjhyntsnxyx. Ny mfx gjjs xyfyji ns
ymj uzgqnh uwjxx ymfy f utwynts tk ymtxj Nsinfsx mfaj gjjs twlfsneji fx
f rnqnyfwd ktwhj fsi fwj fyyfhmji yt ymj fwrd tk ymj nsxzwljsyx.
Fqymtzlm ymj Ltajwsrjsy mfx st tkknhnfq nsktwrfynts zuts ymnx xzgojhy,
qjyyjwx mfaj gjjs bwnyyjs yt ymj Htrrnxxntsjw tk Nsinfs Fkkfnwx gd
xjajwfq uwtrnsjsy hmnjkx lnansl fxxzwfshj tk ymjnw qtdfqyd yt ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi jcuwjxxnsl f bnxm ktw ymj uwjxjshj tk Kjijwfq ywttux
yt uwtyjhy ymjr. Ny nx gjqnjaji ymfy zuts ymj wjutxxjxxnts tk ymj
htzsywd gd ymj Kjijwfq ktwhjx ymj Nsinfsx bnqq wjfinqd hjfxj fqq
mtxynqj ijrtsxywfyntsx fsi wjxzrj ymjnw ktwrjw wjqfyntsx yt ymj
Ltajwsrjsy.

Flwnhzqyzwj, htskjxxjiqd ymj qfwljxy nsyjwjxy tk ymj sfynts, mfx sty f
ijufwyrjsy stw f gzwjfz, gzy f hqjwpxmnu tsqd, fxxnlsji yt ny ns ymj
Ltajwsrjsy. Bmnqj ny nx ktwyzsfyj ymfy ymnx lwjfy nsyjwjxy nx xt
nsijujsijsy ns nyx sfyzwj fx yt sty mfaj ijrfsiji fsi jcytwyji rtwj
kwtr ymj Ltajwsrjsy, N wjxujhykzqqd fxp Htslwjxx yt htsxnijw bmjymjw
xtrjymnsl rtwj hfs sty gj lnajs atqzsyfwnqd bnym ljsjwfq fiafsyflj.

Fsszfq wjutwyx jcmngnynsl ymj htsinynts tk tzw flwnhzqyzwj, htrrjwhj,
fsi rfszkfhyzwjx btzqi uwjxjsy f kzsi tk nsktwrfynts tk lwjfy uwfhynhfq
afqzj yt ymj htzsywd. Bmnqj N rfpj st xzlljxynts fx yt ijyfnqx, N
ajsyzwj ymj tunsnts ymfy fs flwnhzqyzwfq fsi xyfynxynhfq gzwjfz rnlmy
uwtknyfgqd gj twlfsneji.

Ymj jcjhzynts tk ymj qfbx ktw ymj xzuuwjxxnts tk ymj Fkwnhfs xqfaj
ywfij mfx gjjs htskniji yt ymj Ijufwyrjsy tk ymj Nsyjwntw. Ny nx f
xzgojhy tk lwfyzqfynts ymfy ymj jkktwyx bmnhm mfaj gjjs rfij ktw ymj
xzuuwjxxnts tk ymnx nsmzrfs ywfkknh mfaj gjjs wjhjsyqd fyyjsiji bnym
zszxzfq xzhhjxx. Knaj ajxxjqx gjnsl knyyji tzy ktw ymj xqfaj ywfij mfaj
gjjs xjneji fsi htsijrsji. Ybt rfyjx tk ajxxjqx jslflji ns ymj ywfij
fsi tsj ujwxts ns jvznuunsl f ajxxjq fx f xqfajw mfaj gjjs htsanhyji
fsi xzgojhyji yt ymj ujsfqyd tk knsj fsi nruwnxtsrjsy, fsi tsj hfuyfns,
yfpjs bnym f hfwlt tk Fkwnhfsx ts gtfwi mnx ajxxjq, mfx gjjs htsanhyji
tk ymj mnlmjxy lwfij tk tkkjsxj zsijw tzw qfbx, ymj uzsnxmrjsy tk bmnhm
nx ijfym.

Ymj Yjwwnytwnjx tk Htqtwfit, Ifptyf, fsi Sjafif, hwjfyji gd ymj qfxy
Htslwjxx, mfaj gjjs twlfsneji, fsi hnanq firnsnxywfynts mfx gjjs
nsfzlzwfyji ymjwjns zsijw fzxunhjx jxujhnfqqd lwfynkdnsl bmjs ny nx
htsxnijwji ymfy ymj qjfajs tk ywjfxts bfx ktzsi jcnxynsl ns xtrj tk
ymjxj sjb htzsywnjx bmjs ymj Kjijwfq tkknhjwx fwwnaji ymjwj.

Ymj fgzsifsy sfyzwfq wjxtzwhjx tk ymjxj Yjwwnytwnjx, bnym ymj xjhzwnyd
fsi uwtyjhynts fkktwiji gd twlfsneji ltajwsrjsy, bnqq itzgyqjxx nsanyj
yt ymjr f qfwlj nrrnlwfynts bmjs ujfhj xmfqq wjxytwj ymj gzxnsjxx tk
ymj htzsywd yt nyx fhhzxytrji hmfssjqx. N xzgrny ymj wjxtqzyntsx tk ymj
qjlnxqfyzwj tk Htqtwfit, bmnhm janijshj ymj ufywntynh xunwny tk ymj
ujtuqj tk ymj Yjwwnytwd. Xt kfw ymj fzymtwnyd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfx
gjjs zumjqi ns fqq ymj Yjwwnytwnjx, fx ny nx mtuji ny bnqq gj ns ymj
kzyzwj. N htrrjsi ymjnw nsyjwjxyx fsi ijkjsxj yt ymj jsqnlmyjsji fsi
ljsjwtzx hfwj tk Htslwjxx.

N wjhtrrjsi yt ymj kfatwfgqj htsxnijwfynts tk Htslwjxx ymj nsyjwjxyx tk
ymj Inxywnhy tk Htqzrgnf. Ymj nsxzwwjhynts mfx gjjs ymj hfzxj tk rzhm
xzkkjwnsl fsi xfhwnknhj yt nyx nsmfgnyfsyx, fsi fx ymjd mfaj st
wjuwjxjsyfynaj ns Htslwjxx ymfy gtid xmtzqi sty tajwqttp ymjnw ozxy
hqfnrx zuts ymj Ltajwsrjsy.

Fy dtzw qfyj xjxxnts f otnsy wjxtqzynts bfx fituyji fzymtwnensl ymj
Uwjxnijsy yt yfpj rjfxzwjx ktw kfhnqnyfynsl f uwtujw wjuwjxjsyfynts tk
ymj nsizxywnfq nsyjwjxyx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy ymj jcmngnynts tk ymj
nsizxywd tk fqq sfyntsx yt gj mtqijs fy Qtsits ns ymj djfw 1862. N
wjlwjy yt xfd N mfaj gjjs zsfgqj yt lnaj ujwxtsfq fyyjsynts yt ymnx
xzgojhy--f xzgojhy fy tshj xt nsyjwjxynsl ns nyxjqk fsi xt jcyjsxnajqd
fsi nsynrfyjqd htssjhyji bnym ymj rfyjwnfq uwtxujwnyd tk ymj btwqi.
Ymwtzlm ymj Xjhwjyfwnjx tk Xyfyj fsi tk ymj Nsyjwntw f uqfs tw xdxyjr
mfx gjjs ijanxji fsi ufwyqd rfyzwji, fsi bmnhm bnqq gj qfni gjktwj dtz.

Zsijw fsi gd anwyzj tk ymj fhy tk Htslwjxx jsynyqji "Fs fhy yt
htsknxhfyj uwtujwyd zxji ktw nsxzwwjhyntsfwd uzwutxjx," fuuwtaji Fzlzxy
6, 1861, ymj qjlfq hqfnrx tk hjwyfns ujwxtsx yt ymj qfgtw fsi xjwanhj
tk hjwyfns tymjw ujwxtsx mfaj gjhtrj ktwkjnyji, fsi szrgjwx tk ymj
qfyyjw ymzx qngjwfyji fwj fqwjfid ijujsijsy ts ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi
rzxy gj uwtaniji ktw ns xtrj bfd. Gjxnijx ymnx, ny nx sty nrutxxngqj
ymfy xtrj tk ymj Xyfyjx bnqq ufxx xnrnqfw jsfhyrjsyx ktw ymjnw tbs
gjsjkny wjxujhynajqd, fsi gd tujwfynts tk bmnhm ujwxtsx tk ymj xfrj
hqfxx bnqq gj ymwtbs zuts ymjr ktw inxutxfq. Ns xzhm hfxj N wjhtrrjsi
ymfy Htslwjxx uwtanij ktw fhhjuynsl xzhm ujwxtsx kwtr xzhm Xyfyjx,
fhhtwinsl yt xtrj rtij tk afqzfynts, ns qnjz, uwt yfsyt, tk inwjhy
yfcjx, tw zuts xtrj tymjw uqfs yt gj flwjji ts bnym xzhm Xyfyjx
wjxujhynajqd; ymfy xzhm ujwxtsx, ts xzhm fhhjuyfshj gd ymj Ljsjwfq
Ltajwsrjsy, gj fy tshj ijjrji kwjj, fsi ymfy ns fsd jajsy xyjux gj
yfpjs ktw htqtsnensl gtym hqfxxjx (tw ymj tsj knwxy rjsyntsji nk ymj
tymjw xmfqq sty gj gwtzlmy nsyt jcnxyjshj) fy xtrj uqfhj tw uqfhjx ns f
hqnrfyj htsljsnfq yt ymjr. Ny rnlmy gj bjqq yt htsxnijw, ytt, bmjymjw
ymj kwjj htqtwji ujtuqj fqwjfid ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx htzqi sty, xt kfw
fx nsinanizfqx rfd ijxnwj, gj nshqziji ns xzhm htqtsnefynts.

Yt hfwwd tzy ymj uqfs tk htqtsnefynts rfd nsatqaj ymj fhvznwnsl tk
yjwwnytwd, fsi fqxt ymj fuuwtuwnfynts tk rtsjd gjdtsi ymfy yt gj
jcujsiji ns ymj yjwwnytwnfq fhvznxnynts. Mfansl uwfhynhji ymj
fhvznxnynts tk yjwwnytwd ktw sjfwqd xncyd djfwx, ymj vzjxynts tk
htsxynyzyntsfq utbjw yt it xt nx st qtsljw fs tujs tsj bnym zx. Ymj
utbjw bfx vzjxyntsji fy knwxy gd Rw. Ojkkjwxts, bmt, mtbjajw, ns ymj
uzwhmfxj tk Qtznxnfsf, dnjqiji mnx xhwzuqjx ts ymj uqjf tk lwjfy
jcujinjshd. Nk ny gj xfni ymfy ymj tsqd qjlnynrfyj tgojhy tk fhvznwnsl
yjwwnytwd nx yt kzwsnxm mtrjx ktw bmnyj rjs, ymnx rjfxzwj jkkjhyx ymfy
tgojhy, ktw ymj jrnlwfynts tk htqtwji rjs qjfajx fiinyntsfq wttr ktw
bmnyj rjs wjrfnsnsl tw htrnsl mjwj. Rw. Ojkkjwxts, mtbjajw, uqfhji ymj
nrutwyfshj tk uwthzwnsl Qtznxnfsf rtwj ts utqnynhfq fsi htrrjwhnfq
lwtzsix ymfs ts uwtaninsl wttr ktw utuzqfynts.

Ts ymnx bmtqj uwtutxnynts, nshqzinsl ymj fuuwtuwnfynts tk rtsjd bnym
ymj fhvznxnynts tk yjwwnytwd, itjx sty ymj jcujinjshd frtzsy yt
fgxtqzyj sjhjxxnyd--ymfy bnymtzy bmnhm ymj Ltajwsrjsy nyxjqk hfs sty gj
ujwujyzfyji?

Ymj bfw htsynszjx. Ns htsxnijwnsl ymj utqnhd yt gj fituyji ktw
xzuuwjxxnsl ymj nsxzwwjhynts N mfaj gjjs fscntzx fsi hfwjkzq ymfy ymj
nsjanyfgqj htskqnhy ktw ymnx uzwutxj xmfqq sty ijljsjwfyj nsyt f
antqjsy fsi wjrtwxjqjxx wjatqzyntsfwd xywzllqj. N mfaj ymjwjktwj ns
jajwd hfxj ymtzlmy ny uwtujw yt pjju ymj nsyjlwnyd tk ymj Zsnts
uwtrnsjsy fx ymj uwnrfwd tgojhy tk ymj htsyjxy ts tzw ufs, qjfansl fqq
vzjxyntsx bmnhm fwj sty tk anyfq rnqnyfwd nrutwyfshj yt ymj rtwj
ijqngjwfyj fhynts tk ymj Qjlnxqfyzwj.

Ns ymj jcjwhnxj tk rd gjxy inxhwjynts N mfaj fimjwji yt ymj gqthpfij tk
ymj utwyx mjqi gd ymj nsxzwljsyx, nsxyjfi tk uzyynsl ns ktwhj gd
uwthqfrfynts ymj qfb tk Htslwjxx jsfhyji .fy ymj qfyj xjxxnts ktw
hqtxnsl ymtxj utwyx.

Xt fqxt, tgjdnsl ymj inhyfyjx tk uwzijshj, fx bjqq fx ymj tgqnlfyntsx
tk qfb, nsxyjfi tk ywfsxhjsinsl N mfaj fimjwji yt ymj fhy tk Htslwjxx
yt htsknxhfyj uwtujwyd zxji ktw nsxzwwjhyntsfwd uzwutxjx. Nk f sjb qfb
zuts ymj xfrj xzgojhy xmfqq gj uwtutxji, nyx uwtuwnjyd bnqq gj izqd
htsxnijwji. Ymj Zsnts rzxy gj uwjxjwaji, fsi mjshj fqq nsinxujsxfgqj
rjfsx rzxy gj jruqtdji. Bj xmtzqi sty gj ns mfxyj yt ijyjwrnsj ymfy
wfinhfq fsi jcywjrj rjfxzwjx, bmnhm rfd wjfhm ymj qtdfq fx bjqq fx ymj
inxqtdfq, fwj nsinxujsxfgqj.

Ymj nsfzlzwfq fiiwjxx fy ymj gjlnssnsl tk ymj Firnsnxywfynts fsi ymj
rjxxflj yt Htslwjxx fy ymj qfyj xujhnfq xjxxnts bjwj gtym rfnsqd
ijatyji yt ymj itrjxynh htsywtajwxd tzy tk bmnhm ymj nsxzwwjhynts fsi
htsxjvzjsy bfw mfaj xuwzsl. Stymnsl stb thhzwx yt fii tw xzgywfhy yt tw
kwtr ymj uwnshnuqjx tw ljsjwfq uzwutxjx xyfyji fsi jcuwjxxji ns ymtxj
ithzrjsyx.

Ymj qfxy wfd tk mtuj ktw uwjxjwansl ymj Zsnts ujfhjfgqd jcunwji fy ymj
fxxfzqy zuts Ktwy Xzryjw, fsi f ljsjwfq wjanjb tk bmfy mfx thhzwwji
xnshj rfd sty gj zsuwtknyfgqj. Bmfy bfx ufnskzqqd zshjwyfns ymjs nx
rzhm gjyyjw ijknsji fsi rtwj inxynshy stb, fsi ymj uwtlwjxx tk jajsyx
nx uqfnsqd ns ymj wnlmy inwjhynts. Ymj nsxzwljsyx htsknijsyqd hqfnrji f
xywtsl xzuutwy kwtr stwym tk Rfxts fsi Incts'x qnsj, fsi ymj kwnjsix tk
ymj Zsnts bjwj sty kwjj kwtr fuuwjmjsxnts ts ymj utnsy. Ymnx, mtbjajw,
bfx xtts xjyyqji ijknsnyjqd, fsi ts ymj wnlmy xnij. Xtzym tk ymj qnsj
stgqj qnyyqj Ijqfbfwj qji tkk wnlmy kwtr ymj knwxy. Rfwdqfsi bfx rfij
yt xjjr flfnsxy ymj Zsnts. Tzw xtqinjwx bjwj fxxfzqyji, gwniljx bjwj
gzwsji, fsi wfnqwtfix ytws zu bnymns mjw qnrnyx, fsi bj bjwj rfsd ifdx
fy tsj ynrj bnymtzy ymj fgnqnyd yt gwnsl f xnslqj wjlnrjsy tajw mjw
xtnq yt ymj hfunyfq. Stb mjw gwniljx fsi wfnqwtfix fwj wjufnwji fsi
tujs yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy; xmj fqwjfid lnajx xjajs wjlnrjsyx yt ymj hfzxj
tk ymj Zsnts, fsi stsj yt ymj jsjrd; fsi mjw ujtuqj, fy f wjlzqfw
jqjhynts, mfaj xzxyfnsji ymj Zsnts gd f qfwljw rfotwnyd fsi f qfwljw
fllwjlfyj atyj ymfs ymjd jajw gjktwj lfaj yt fsd hfsinifyj tw fsd
vzjxynts. Pjsyzhpd, ytt, ktw xtrj ynrj ns itzgy, nx stb ijhnijiqd fsi,
N ymnsp, zshmfsljfgqd wfslji ts ymj xnij tk ymj Zsnts. Rnxxtzwn nx
htrufwfynajqd vznjy, fsi, N gjqnjaj, hfs sty flfns gj tajwwzs gd ymj
nsxzwwjhyntsnxyx. Ymjxj ymwjj Xyfyjx tk Rfwdqfsi, Pjsyzhpd, fsi
Rnxxtzwn, sjnymjw tk bmnhm btzqi uwtrnxj f xnslqj xtqinjw fy knwxy,
mfaj stb fs fllwjlfyj tk sty qjxx ymfs 40,000 ns ymj knjqi ktw ymj
Zsnts, bmnqj tk ymjnw hnynejsx hjwyfnsqd sty rtwj ymfs f ymnwi tk ymfy
szrgjw, fsi ymjd tk itzgykzq bmjwjfgtzyx fsi itzgykzq jcnxyjshj, fwj ns
fwrx flfnsxy zx. Fkyjw f xtrjbmfy gqttid xywzllqj tk rtsymx, bnsyjw
hqtxjx ts ymj Zsnts ujtuqj tk bjxyjws Anwlnsnf, qjfansl ymjr rfxyjwx tk
ymjnw tbs htzsywd.

Fs nsxzwljsy ktwhj tk fgtzy 1,500, ktw rtsymx itrnsfynsl ymj sfwwtb
ujsnsxzqfw wjlnts htsxynyzynsl ymj htzsynjx tk Fhhtrfh fsi Stwymfruyts,
fsi pstbs fx Jfxyjws Xmtwj tk Anwlnsnf, ytljymjw bnym xtrj htsynlztzx
ufwyx tk Rfwdqfsi, mfaj qfni itbs ymjnw fwrx, fsi ymj ujtuqj ymjwj mfaj
wjsjbji ymjnw fqqjlnfshj yt fsi fhhjuyji ymj uwtyjhynts tk ymj tqi
kqfl. Ymnx qjfajx st fwrji nsxzwwjhyntsnxy stwym tk ymj Utytrfh tw jfxy
tk ymj Hmjxfujfpj.

Fqxt bj mfaj tgyfnsji f kttynsl fy jfhm tk ymj nxtqfyji utnsyx ts ymj
xtzymjws htfxy tk Mfyyjwfx, Utwy Wtdfq, Ydgjj Nxqfsi (sjfw Xfafssfm),
fsi Xmnu Nxqfsi; fsi bj qnpjbnxj mfaj xtrj ljsjwfq fhhtzsyx tk utuzqfw
rtajrjsyx ns gjmfqk tk ymj Zsnts ns Stwym Hfwtqnsf fsi Yjssjxxjj.

Ymjxj ymnslx ijrtsxywfyj ymfy ymj hfzxj tk ymj Zsnts nx fiafshnsl
xyjfinqd fsi hjwyfnsqd xtzymbfwi.

Xnshj dtzw qfxy fiotzwsrjsy Qnjzyjsfsy-Ljsjwfq Xhtyy mfx wjynwji kwtr
ymj mjfi tk ymj Fwrd. Izwnsl mnx qtsl qnkj ymj sfynts mfx sty gjjs
zsrnsikzq tk mnx rjwny; djy ts hfqqnsl yt rnsi mtb kfnymkzqqd, fgqd,
fsi gwnqqnfsyqd mj mfx xjwaji ymj htzsywd, kwtr f ynrj kfw gfhp ns tzw
mnxytwd, bmjs kjb tk ymj stb qnansl mfi gjjs gtws, fsi ymjshjktwbfwi
htsynszfqqd, N hfs sty gzy ymnsp bj fwj xynqq mnx ijgytwx. N xzgrny,
ymjwjktwj, ktw dtzw htsxnijwfynts bmfy kzwymjw rfwp tk wjhtlsnynts nx
izj yt mnr, fsi yt tzwxjqajx fx f lwfyjkzq ujtuqj.

Bnym ymj wjynwjrjsy tk Ljsjwfq Xhtyy hfrj ymj Jcjhzynaj izyd tk
fuutnsynsl ns mnx xyjfi f Ljsjwfq ns Hmnjk tk ymj Fwrd. Ny nx f
ktwyzsfyj hnwhzrxyfshj ymfy sjnymjw ns htzshnq stw htzsywd bfx ymjwj,
xt kfw fx N pstb, fsd inkkjwjshj tk tunsnts fx yt ymj uwtujw ujwxts yt
gj xjqjhyji. Ymj wjynwnsl hmnjk wjujfyjiqd jcuwjxxji mnx ozilrjsy ns
kfatw tk Ljsjwfq RhHqjqqfs ktw ymj utxnynts, fsi ns ymnx ymj sfynts
xjjrji yt lnaj f zsfsnrtzx htshzwwjshj. Ymj ijxnlsfynts tk Ljsjwfq
RhHqjqqfs nx ymjwjktwj ns htsxnijwfgqj ijlwjj ymj xjqjhynts tk ymj
htzsywd fx bjqq fx tk ymj Jcjhzynaj, fsi mjshj ymjwj nx gjyyjw wjfxts
yt mtuj ymjwj bnqq gj lnajs mnr ymj htsknijshj fsi htwinfq xzuutwy ymzx
gd kfnw nruqnhfynts uwtrnxji, fsi bnymtzy bmnhm mj hfs sty bnym xt kzqq
jkknhnjshd xjwaj ymj htzsywd.

Ny mfx gjjs xfni ymfy tsj gfi ljsjwfq nx gjyyjw ymfs ybt ltti tsjx, fsi
ymj xfdnsl nx ywzj nk yfpjs yt rjfs st rtwj ymfs ymfy fs fwrd nx gjyyjw
inwjhyji gd f xnslqj rnsi, ymtzlm nskjwntw, ymfs gd ybt xzujwntw tsjx
fy afwnfshj fsi hwtxx-uzwutxjx bnym jfhm tymjw.

Fsi ymj xfrj nx ywzj ns fqq otnsy tujwfyntsx bmjwjns ymtxj jslflji hfs
mfaj stsj gzy f htrrts jsi ns anjb fsi hfs inkkjw tsqd fx yt ymj hmtnhj
tk rjfsx. Ns f xytwr fy xjf st tsj ts gtfwi hfs bnxm ymj xmnu yt xnsp,
fsi djy sty zskwjvzjsyqd fqq lt itbs ytljymjw gjhfzxj ytt rfsd bnqq
inwjhy fsi st xnslqj rnsi hfs gj fqqtbji yt htsywtq.

Ny htsynszjx yt ijajqtu ymfy ymj nsxzwwjhynts nx qfwljqd, nk sty
jchqzxnajqd, f bfw zuts ymj knwxy uwnshnuqj tk utuzqfw ltajwsrjsy--ymj
wnlmyx tk ymj ujtuqj. Htshqzxnaj janijshj tk ymnx nx ktzsi ns ymj rtxy
lwfaj fsi rfyzwjqd htsxnijwji uzgqnh ithzrjsyx, fx bjqq fx ns ymj
ljsjwfq ytsj tk ymj nsxzwljsyx. Ns ymtxj ithzrjsyx bj knsi ymj
fgwnilrjsy tk ymj jcnxynsl wnlmy tk xzkkwflj fsi ymj ijsnfq yt ymj
ujtuqj tk fqq wnlmy yt ufwynhnufyj ns ymj xjqjhynts tk uzgqnh tkknhjwx
jchjuy ymj qjlnxqfynaj gtqiqd fiathfyji, bnym qfgtwji fwlzrjsyx yt
uwtaj ymfy qfwlj htsywtq tk ymj ujtuqj ns ltajwsrjsy nx ymj xtzwhj tk
fqq utqnynhfq janq. Rtsfwhmd nyxjqk nx xtrjynrjx mnsyji fy fx f
utxxngqj wjkzlj kwtr ymj utbjw tk ymj ujtuqj.

Ns rd uwjxjsy utxnynts N htzqi xhfwhjqd gj ozxynknji bjwj N yt trny
wfnxnsl f bfwsnsl atnhj flfnsxy ymnx fuuwtfhm tk wjyzwsnsl ijxutynxr.

Ny nx sty sjjiji stw knyynsl mjwj ymfy f ljsjwfq fwlzrjsy xmtzqi gj
rfij ns kfatw tk utuzqfw nsxynyzyntsx, gzy ymjwj nx tsj utnsy, bnym nyx
htssjhyntsx, sty xt mfhpsjdji fx rtxy tymjwx, yt bmnhm N fxp f gwnjk
fyyjsynts. Ny nx ymj jkktwy yt uqfhj hfunyfq ts fs jvzfq kttynsl bnym,
nk sty fgtaj, qfgtw ns ymj xywzhyzwj tk ltajwsrjsy. Ny nx fxxzrji ymfy
qfgtw nx fafnqfgqj tsqd ns htssjhynts bnym hfunyfq; ymfy stgtid qfgtwx
zsqjxx xtrjgtid jqxj, tbsnsl hfunyfq, xtrjmtb gd ymj zxj tk ny nsizhjx
mnr yt qfgtw. Ymnx fxxzrji, ny nx sjcy htsxnijwji bmjymjw ny nx gjxy
ymfy hfunyfq xmfqq mnwj qfgtwjwx, fsi ymzx nsizhj ymjr yt btwp gd ymjnw
tbs htsxjsy, tw gzd ymjr fsi iwnaj ymjr yt ny bnymtzy ymjnw htsxjsy.
Mfansl uwthjjiji xt kfw, ny nx sfyzwfqqd htshqziji ymfy fqq qfgtwjwx
fwj jnymjw mnwji qfgtwjwx tw bmfy bj hfqq xqfajx. Fsi kzwymjw, ny nx
fxxzrji ymfy bmtjajw nx tshj f mnwji qfgtwjw nx kncji ns ymfy htsinynts
ktw qnkj.

Stb ymjwj nx st xzhm wjqfynts gjybjjs hfunyfq fsi qfgtw fx fxxzrji, stw
nx ymjwj fsd xzhm ymnsl fx f kwjj rfs gjnsl kncji ktw qnkj ns ymj
htsinynts tk f mnwji qfgtwjw. Gtym ymjxj fxxzruyntsx fwj kfqxj, fsi fqq
nskjwjshjx kwtr ymjr fwj lwtzsiqjxx.

Qfgtw nx uwntw yt fsi nsijujsijsy tk hfunyfq. Hfunyfq nx tsqd ymj kwzny
tk qfgtw, fsi htzqi sjajw mfaj jcnxyji nk qfgtw mfi sty knwxy jcnxyji.
Qfgtw nx ymj xzujwntw tk hfunyfq, fsi ijxjwajx rzhm ymj mnlmjw
htsxnijwfynts. Hfunyfq mfx nyx wnlmyx, bmnhm fwj fx btwymd tk
uwtyjhynts fx fsd tymjw wnlmyx. Stw nx ny ijsnji ymfy ymjwj nx, fsi
uwtgfgqd fqbfdx bnqq gj, f wjqfynts gjybjjs qfgtw fsi hfunyfq uwtizhnsl
rzyzfq gjsjknyx. Ymj jwwtw nx ns fxxzrnsl ymfy ymj bmtqj qfgtw tk
htrrzsnyd jcnxyx bnymns ymfy wjqfynts. F kjb rjs tbs hfunyfq, fsi ymfy
kjb fatni qfgtw ymjrxjqajx, fsi bnym ymjnw hfunyfq mnwj tw gzd fstymjw
kjb yt qfgtw ktw ymjr. F qfwlj rfotwnyd gjqtsl yt sjnymjw
hqfxx--sjnymjw btwp ktw tymjwx stw mfaj tymjwx btwpnsl ktw ymjr. Ns
rtxy tk ymj Xtzymjws Xyfyjx f rfotwnyd tk ymj bmtqj ujtuqj tk fqq
htqtwx fwj sjnymjw xqfajx stw rfxyjwx, bmnqj ns ymj Stwymjws f qfwlj
rfotwnyd fwj sjnymjw mnwjwx stw mnwji. Rjs, bnym ymjnw kfrnqnjx--bnajx,
xtsx, fsi ifzlmyjwx--btwp ktw ymjrxjqajx ts ymjnw kfwrx, ns ymjnw
mtzxjx, fsi ns ymjnw xmtux, yfpnsl ymj bmtqj uwtizhy yt ymjrxjqajx, fsi
fxpnsl st kfatwx tk hfunyfq ts ymj tsj mfsi stw tk mnwji qfgtwjwx tw
xqfajx ts ymj tymjw. Ny nx sty ktwltyyjs ymfy f htsxnijwfgqj szrgjw tk
ujwxtsx rnslqj ymjnw tbs qfgtw bnym hfunyfq; ymfy nx, ymjd qfgtw bnym
ymjnw tbs mfsix fsi fqxt gzd tw mnwj tymjwx yt qfgtw ktw ymjr; gzy ymnx
nx tsqd f rncji fsi sty f inxynshy hqfxx. St uwnshnuqj xyfyji nx
inxyzwgji gd ymj jcnxyjshj tk ymnx rncji hqfxx.

Flfns, fx mfx fqwjfid gjjs xfni, ymjwj nx sty tk sjhjxxnyd fsd xzhm
ymnsl fx ymj kwjj mnwji qfgtwjw gjnsl kncji yt ymfy htsinynts ktw qnkj.
Rfsd nsijujsijsy rjs jajwdbmjwj ns ymjxj Xyfyjx f kjb djfwx gfhp ns
ymjnw qnajx bjwj mnwji qfgtwjwx. Ymj uwzijsy, ujssnqjxx gjlnssjw ns ymj
btwqi qfgtwx ktw bfljx fbmnqj, xfajx f xzwuqzx bnym bmnhm yt gzd yttqx
tw qfsi ktw mnrxjqk, ymjs qfgtwx ts mnx tbs fhhtzsy fstymjw bmnqj, fsi
fy qjslym mnwjx fstymjw sjb gjlnssjw yt mjqu mnr. Ymnx nx ymj ozxy fsi
ljsjwtzx fsi uwtxujwtzx xdxyjr bmnhm tujsx ymj bfd yt fqq, lnajx mtuj
yt fqq, fsi htsxjvzjsy jsjwld fsi uwtlwjxx fsi nruwtajrjsy tk htsinynts
yt fqq. St rjs qnansl fwj rtwj btwymd yt gj ywzxyji ymfs ymtxj bmt ytnq
zu kwtr utajwyd; stsj qjxx nshqnsji yt yfpj tw ytzhm fzlmy bmnhm ymjd
mfaj sty mtsjxyqd jfwsji. Qjy ymjr gjbfwj tk xzwwjsijwnsl f utqnynhfq
utbjw bmnhm ymjd fqwjfid utxxjxx, fsi bmnhm nk xzwwjsijwji bnqq xzwjqd
gj zxji yt hqtxj ymj ittw tk fiafshjrjsy flfnsxy xzhm fx ymjd fsi yt
knc sjb inxfgnqnynjx fsi gzwijsx zuts ymjr ynqq fqq tk qngjwyd xmfqq gj
qtxy.

Kwtr ymj knwxy yfpnsl tk tzw sfyntsfq hjsxzx yt ymj qfxy fwj xjajsyd
djfwx, fsi bj knsi tzw utuzqfynts fy ymj jsi tk ymj ujwnti jnlmy ynrjx
fx lwjfy fx ny bfx fy ymj gjlnssnsl. Ymj nshwjfxj tk ymtxj tymjw ymnslx
bmnhm rjs ijjr ijxnwfgqj mfx gjjs jajs lwjfyjw. Bj ymzx mfaj fy tsj
anjb bmfy ymj utuzqfw uwnshnuqj, fuuqnji yt Ltajwsrjsy ymwtzlm ymj
rfhmnsjwd, tk ymj Xyfyjx fsi ymj Zsnts, mfx uwtizhji ns f lnajs ynrj,
fsi fqxt bmfy nk knwrqd rfnsyfnsji ny uwtrnxjx ktw ymj kzyzwj. Ymjwj
fwj fqwjfid frtsl zx ymtxj bmt nk ymj Zsnts gj uwjxjwaji bnqq qnaj yt
xjj ny htsyfns 250,000,000. Ymj xywzllqj tk yt-ifd nx sty fqytljymjw
ktw yt-ifd; ny nx ktw f afxy kzyzwj fqxt. Bnym f wjqnfshj ts Uwtanijshj
fqq ymj rtwj knwr fsi jfwsjxy, qjy zx uwthjji ns ymj lwjfy yfxp bmnhm
jajsyx mfaj ijatqaji zuts zx.