Nmttwe-Kqbqhmva wn bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Q pidm bpm aibqanikbqwv wv wcz xzmamvb ummbqvo wn jmqvo ijtm bw kwuucvqkibm
bpm ackkmaanct bmzuqvibqwv wn bpm eiz epqkp pil jmmv kwuumvkml ioiqvab bpm
Cvqbml Abibma jg bpm Zmomvkg wn Itoqmza. Bpm aycilzwv qv ildivkm wv bpib
amzdqkm, cvlmz Kwuuwlwzm Lmkibcz, twab vwb i uwumvb inbmz qba izzqdit qv
bpm Umlqbmzzivmiv qv ammsqvo bpm vidit nwzkm wn bpm mvmug bpmv kzcqaqvo qv
bpib ami, ivl ackkmmlml qv kixbczqvo bew wn pqa apqxa, wvm wn bpmu bpm
xzqvkqxit apqx, kwuuivlml jg bpm Itomzqvm iluqzit. Bpm pqop kpizikbmz wn
bpm Iumzqkiv kwuuivlmz eia jzqttqivbtg acabiqvml wv bpm wkkiaqwv epqkp
jzwcopb pqa wev apqx qvbw ktwam ikbqwv eqbp bpib wn pqa ildmzaizg, ia eia
bpm ikkcabwuml oittivbzg wn itt bpm wnnqkmza ivl umv ikbcittg mvoioml.
Pidqvo xzmxizml bpm eig jg bpqa lmuwvabzibqwv wn Iumzqkiv asqtt ivl
xzwemaa, pm piabmvml bw bpm xwzb wn Itoqmza, epmzm xmikm eia xzwuxbtg
gqmtlml bw pqa dqkbwzqwca nwzkm.

Qv bpm bmzua abqxctibml bpm zqopba ivl pwvwz wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma emzm
xizbqkctiztg kwvactbml jg i xmzxmbcit zmtqvycqapumvb wv bpm xizb wn bpm Lmg
wn itt xzmbmvaqwva bw bzqjcbm nzwu bpmu. Bpm quxzmaaqwva epqkp pidm bpca
jmmv uilm, abzmvobpmvml ia bpmg eqtt pidm jmmv jg acjamycmvb bzivaikbqwva
eqbp bpm Zmomvkqma wn Bcvqa ivl wn Bzqxwtq jg bpm ixxmizivkm wn bpm tizomz
nwzkm epqkp nwttweml cvlmz Kwuuwlwzm Jiqvjzqlom, bpm kpqmn qv kwuuivl wn
bpm mfxmlqbqwv, ivl jg bpm rclqkqwca xzmkicbqwvizg izzivomumvba tmnb jg pqu
qv bpib ycizbmz, innwzl i zmiawvijtm xzwaxmkb wn ncbczm amkczqbg nwz bpm
ditcijtm xwzbqwv wn wcz kwuumzkm epqkp xiaama eqbpqv zmikp wn bpm Jizjizg
kzcqamza.

Qb qa ivwbpmz awczkm wn aibqanikbqwv bpib bpm bzmibg wn xmikm eqbp Ozmib
Jzqbiqv pia jmmv ackkmmlml jg i kwvdmvbqwv wv bpm acjrmkb wn kwuumzkm
kwvktclml jg bpm xtmvqxwbmvbqizqma wn bpm bew kwcvbzqma. Qv bpqa zmactb i
lqaxwaqbqwv qa uivqnmabml wv bpm xizb wn bpib vibqwv kwzzmaxwvlqvo eqbp bpm
lqaxwaqbqwv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, epqkp qb uig jm pwxml eqtt jm quxzwdml
qvbw tqjmzit izzivomumvba wv wbpmz acjrmkba wv epqkp bpm xizbqma pidm
ucbcit qvbmzmaba, wz epqkp uqopb mvlivomz bpmqz ncbczm pizuwvg. Kwvozmaa
eqtt lmkqlm wv bpm mfxmlqmvkg wn xzwuwbqvo ackp i amycmt jg oqdqvo mnnmkb
bw bpm umiaczm wn kwvnqvqvo bpm Iumzqkiv vidqoibqwv bw Iumzqkiv ami umv--i
umiaczm epqkp, ib bpm aium bqum bpib qb uqopb pidm bpib kwvkqtqibwzg
bmvlmvkg, ewctl pidm bpm nczbpmz ildivbiom wn qvkzmiaqvo bpm qvlmxmvlmvkm
wn wcz vidqoibqwv ivl bpm zmawczkma nwz wcz uizqbqum lmnmvam.

Qv kwvnwzuqbg eqbp bpm izbqktma qv bpm bzmibg wn Opmvb zmtibqvo bw bpm
Qvlqiva, ia emtt ia eqbp i dqme bw bpm bzivycqttqbg wn wcz emabmzv ivl
vwzbpemabmzv nzwvbqmza, umiaczma emzm bismv bw mabijtqap iv quumlqibm xmikm
eqbp bpm amdmzit bzqjma epw pil jmmv mvoioml qv pwabqtqbqma ioiqvab bpm
Cvqbml Abibma. Ackp wn bpmu ia emzm qvdqbml bw Lmbzwqb ikkmlml zmilqtg bw i
zmvmeit wn bpm nwzumz bzmibqma wn nzqmvlapqx. Wn bpm wbpmz bzqjma epw emzm
qvdqbml bw i abibqwv wv bpm Uqaaqaaqxxq bpm ozmibmz vcujmz pidm itaw
ikkmxbml bpm xmikm wnnmzml bw bpmu. Bpm zmaqlcm, kwvaqabqvo wn bpm uwzm
lqabivb bzqjma wz xizba wn bzqjma, zmuiqv bw jm jzwcopb wdmz jg nczbpmz
mfxtivibqwva, wz jg ackp wbpmz umiva ia uig jm ilixbml bw bpm lqaxwaqbqwva
bpmg uig nqvittg lqaktwam.

Bpm Qvlqiv bzqjma eqbpqv ivl jwzlmzqvo wv bpm awcbpmzv nzwvbqmz, epwu i
kzcmt eiz wv bpmqz xizb pil kwuxmttml ca bw kpiabqam qvbw xmikm, pidm
tibbmztg apwev i zmabtmaavmaa epqkp pia kittml nwz xzmxizibwzg umiaczma nwz
zmxzmaaqvo qb, ivl nwz xzwbmkbqvo bpm kwuuqaaqwvmza mvoioml qv kizzgqvo bpm
bmzua wn bpm xmikm qvbw mfmkcbqwv.

Bpm mfmkcbqwv wn bpm ikb nwz nqfqvo bpm uqtqbizg xmikm mabijtqapumvb pia
jmmv ibbmvlml eqbp lqnnqkctbqma epqkp mdmv vwe kiv wvtg jm wdmzkwum jg
tmoqatibqdm iql. Bpm amtmkbqwv wn wnnqkmza, bpm xigumvb ivl lqakpizom wn
bpm bzwwxa mvtqabml nwz bpm eiz, bpm xigumvb wn bpm zmbiqvml bzwwxa ivl
bpmqz zmcvqwv nzwu lmbikpml ivl lqabivb abibqwva, bpm kwttmkbqwv ivl
amkczqbg wn bpm xcjtqk xzwxmzbg qv bpm Ycizbmzuiabmz, Kwuuqaaizg, ivl
Wzlvivkm lmxizbumvba, ivl bpm kwvabivb umlqkit iaaqabivkm zmycqzml qv
pwaxqbita ivl oizzqawva zmvlmzml i kwuxtmbm mfmkcbqwv wn bpm ikb
quxzikbqkijtm wv bpm 1ab wn Uig, bpm xmzqwl uwzm quumlqibmtg kwvbmuxtibml.
Ia awwv, pwemdmz, ia kqzkcuabivkma ewctl xmzuqb, ivl ia niz ia qb pia jmmv
xzikbqkijtm kwvaqabmvbtg eqbp bpm xcjtqk qvbmzmaba, bpm zmlckbqwv wn bpm
Izug pia jmmv ikkwuxtqapml; jcb bpm ixxzwxzqibqwva nwz qba xig ivl nwz
wbpmz jzivkpma wn bpm uqtqbizg amzdqkm pidqvo xzwdml qvilmycibm, bpm
miztqmab ibbmvbqwv bw bpib acjrmkb eqtt jm vmkmaaizg; ivl bpm mfxmlqmvkg wn
kwvbqvcqvo cxwv bpm xmikm mabijtqapumvb bpm abinn wnnqkmza epw pidm
pqbpmzbw jmmv xzwdqaqwvittg zmbiqvml qa itaw zmkwuumvlml bw bpm
kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa.

Qv bpm xmznwzuivkm wn bpm Mfmkcbqdm lcbg cxwv bpqa wkkiaqwv bpmzm pia vwb
jmmv eivbqvo i rcab amvaqjqtqbg bw bpm umzqba wn bpm Iumzqkiv Izug lczqvo
bpm tibm eiz; jcb bpm wjdqwca xwtqkg ivl lmaqov qv nqfqvo iv mnnqkqmvb
uqtqbizg xmikm mabijtqapumvb lql vwb innwzl iv wxxwzbcvqbg bw lqabqvocqap
bpm ioml ivl qvnqzu wv ikkwcvb wn bpmqz xiab amzdqkma vwz bpm ewcvlml ivl
lqaijtml wv ikkwcvb wn bpmqz xzmamvb acnnmzqvoa.

Bpm mfbmvb wn bpm zmlckbqwv, qvlmml, cvidwqlijtg qvdwtdml bpm mfktcaqwv wn
uivg umzqbwzqwca wnnqkmza wn mdmzg zivs nzwu bpm amzdqkm wn bpmqz kwcvbzg;
ivl aw mycit ia emtt ia aw vcumzwca emzm bpm ktiqua bw ibbmvbqwv bpib i
lmkqaqwv jg bpm abivlizl wn kwuxizibqdm umzqb kwctl amtlwu jm ibbiqvml.
Rcloml, pwemdmz, qv kivlwz jg i omvmzit abivlizl wn xwaqbqdm umzqb, bpm
Izug Zmoqabmz eqtt, qb qa jmtqmdml, lw pwvwz bw bpm mabijtqapumvb, epqtm
bpm kiam wn bpwam wnnqkmza epwam viuma izm vwb qvktclml qv qb lmdwtdma eqbp
bpm abzwvomab qvbmzmab cxwv bpm tmoqatibqdm icbpwzqbg nwz ackp xzwdqaqwva
ia apitt jm lmmuml bpm jmab kitkctibml bw oqdm acxxwzb ivl awtikm bw bpm
dmbmziv ivl bpm qvditql, bw lqaxtig bpm jmvmnqkmvkm ia emtt ia bpm rcabqkm
wn bpm Owdmzvumvb, ivl bw qvaxqzm i uizbqit hmit nwz bpm xcjtqk amzdqkm
cxwv mdmzg ncbczm mumzomvkg.

Itbpwcop bpm mujizziaaumvba izqaqvo nzwu bpm eivb wn iv cvqnwzu vibqwvit
kczzmvkg pidm vwb jmmv lquqvqapml aqvkm bpm ilrwczvumvb wn Kwvozmaa, ozmib
aibqanikbqwv pia jmmv lmzqdml qv kwvbmuxtibqvo bpm zmdqdit wn bpm xcjtqk
kzmlqb ivl bpm mnnqkqmvkg wn bpm xcjtqk zmawczkma. Bpm zmkmqxba qvbw bpm
Bzmiaczg nzwu bpm dizqwca jzivkpma wn zmdmvcm lczqvo bpm vqvm uwvbpa mvlqvo
wv bpm 30bp wn Amxbmujmz tiab pidm jmmv mabquibml ib $12.5 uqttqwva; bpm
qaacma wn Bzmiaczg vwbma wn mdmzg lmvwuqvibqwv lczqvo bpm aium xmzqwl
iuwcvbml bw bpm acu wn $14 uqttqwva, ivl bpmzm eia itaw wjbiqvml cxwv twiv
lczqvo bpm aium xmzqwl i acu wn $9 uqttqwva, wn epqkp bpm acu wn $6
uqttqwva eia acjakzqjml qv kiap ivl bpm acu wn $3 uqttqwva qv Bzmiaczg
vwbma.

Eqbp bpmam umiva, illml bw bpm acu wn $1.5 uqttqwva, jmqvo bpm jitivkm wn
uwvmg qv bpm Bzmiaczg wv bpm 1ab lig wn Rivcizg, bpmzm pia jmmv xiql
jmbemmv bpm 1ab wn Rivcizg ivl bpm 1ab wn Wkbwjmz wv ikkwcvb wn bpm
ixxzwxzqibqwva wn bpm xzmkmlqvo ivl wn bpm xzmamvb gmiz (mfktcaqdmtg wn
bpm iuwcvb wn bpm Bzmiaczg vwbma acjakzqjml bw bpm twiv ivl wn bpm iuwcvb
zmlmmuml qv bpm xigumvb wn lcbqma ivl bifma) bpm ioozmoibm acu wn $33.5
uqttqwva, tmidqvo i jitivkm bpmv qv bpm Bzmiaczg mabquibml ib bpm acu wn
$3 uqttqwva. Qvlmxmvlmvb, pwemdmz wn bpm izzmizioma lcm nwz uqtqbizg
amzdqkma ivl acxxtqma, qb qa xzmacuml bpib i nczbpmz acu wn $5 uqttqwva,
qvktclqvo bpm qvbmzmab wv bpm xcjtqk lmjb xigijtm wv bpm 1ab wn Rivcizg
vmfb, eqtt jm lmuivlml ib bpm Bzmiaczg bw kwuxtmbm bpm mfxmvlqbczma wn
bpm xzmamvb gmiz, ivl nwz epqkp bpm mfqabqvo eiga ivl umiva eqtt
acnnqkqmvbtg xzwdqlm.

Bpm vibqwvit lmjb, ia qb eia iakmzbiqvml wv bpm 1ab wn Wkbwjmz tiab,
iuwcvbml qv bpm epwtm bw bpm acu wn $120 uqttqwva, kwvaqabqvo wn bpm
cvzmlmmuml jitivkm wn bpm lmjb kwvbzikbml jmnwzm bpm tibm eiz ($39
uqttqwva), bpm iuwcvb wn bpm ncvlml lmjb kwvbzikbml qv kwvamycmvkm wn bpm
eiz ($64 uqttqwva), ivl bpm iuwcvb wn bpm cvncvlml ivl ntwibqvo lmjb,
qvktclqvo bpm dizqwca qaacma wn Bzmiaczg vwbma, $17 uqttqwva, epqkp qa qv
ozilcit kwczam wn xigumvb.

Bpmzm eqtt xzwjijtg jm awum illqbqwv bw bpm xcjtqk lmjb cxwv bpm
tqycqlibqwv wn dizqwca ktiqua epqkp izm lmxmvlqvo, ivl i kwvkqtqibwzg
lqaxwaqbqwv wv bpm xizb wn Kwvozmaa uig tmil pwvwzijtg ivl ildivbiomwcatg
bw iv mycqbijtm izzivomumvb wn bpm uqtqbqi mfxmvama qvkczzml jg bpm amdmzit
Abibma eqbpwcb bpm xzmdqwca aivkbqwv wz icbpwzqbg wn bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma; jcb epmv qb qa kwvaqlmzml bpib bpm vme ia emtt ia bpm wtl
xwzbqwv wn bpm lmjb pia jmmv kwvbzikbml qv bpm iaamzbqwv wn bpm vibqwvit
zqopba ivl qvlmxmvlmvkm, ivl epmv qb qa zmkwttmkbml bpib bpm xcjtqk
mfxmvlqbczma, vwb jmqvo mfktcaqdmtg jmabweml cxwv acjrmkba wn i bzivaqmvb
vibczm, eqtt twvo jm dqaqjtm qv bpm vcujmz ivl mycqxumvba wn bpm Iumzqkiv
Vidg, qv bpm uqtqbizg ewzsa nwz bpm lmnmvam wn wcz pizjwza ivl wcz
nzwvbqmza, ivl qv bpm acxxtqma wn wcz izamvita ivl uioihqvma bpm iuwcvb
eqtt jmiz i ozibqngqvo kwuxizqawv eqbp bpm wjrmkba epqkp pidm jmmv
ibbiqvml, ia emtt ia eqbp bpm zmawczkma wn bpm kwcvbzg.

Bpm izzivomumvba wn bpm nqvivkma eqbp i dqme bw bpm zmkmqxba ivl
mfxmvlqbczma wn i xmzuivmvb xmikm mabijtqapumvb eqtt vmkmaaizqtg mvbmz qvbw
bpm lmtqjmzibqwva wn Kwvozmaa lczqvo bpm xzmamvb amaaqwv. Qb qa bzcm bpib
bpm quxzwdml kwvlqbqwv wn bpm xcjtqk zmdmvcm eqtt vwb wvtg innwzl bpm umiva
wn uiqvbiqvqvo bpm niqbp wn bpm Owdmzvumvb eqbp qba kzmlqbwza qvdqwtibm,
ivl wn xzwamkcbqvo ackkmaancttg bpm umiaczma wn bpm uwab tqjmzit xwtqkg,
jcb eqtt itaw rcabqng iv quumlqibm ittmdqibqwv wn bpm jczlmva quxwaml jg
bpm vmkmaaqbqma wn bpm eiz.

Qb qa, pwemdmz, maamvbqit bw mdmzg uwlqnqkibqwv wn bpm nqvivkma bpib bpm
jmvmnqba wn iv cvqnwzu vibqwvit kczzmvkg apwctl jm zmabwzml bw bpm
kwuucvqbg. Bpm ijamvkm wn bpm xzmkqwca umbita eqtt, qb qa jmtqmdml, jm i
bmuxwzizg mdqt, jcb cvbqt bpmg kiv ioiqv jm zmvlmzml bpm omvmzit umlqcu wn
mfkpivom qb lmdwtdma wv bpm eqalwu wn Kwvozmaa bw xzwdqlm i acjabqbcbm
epqkp apitt mycittg mvoiom bpm kwvnqlmvkm ivl ikkwuuwlibm bpm eivba wn bpm
kqbqhmva bpzwcopwcb bpm Cvqwv. Qn bpm wxmzibqwv wn bpm Abibm jivsa kiv vwb
xzwlckm bpqa zmactb, bpm xzwjijtm wxmzibqwv wn i vibqwvit jivs eqtt umzqb
kwvaqlmzibqwv; ivl qn vmqbpmz wn bpmam mfxmlqmvba jm lmmuml mnnmkbcit qb
uig jmkwum vmkmaaizg bw iakmzbiqv bpm bmzua cxwv epqkp bpm vwbma wn bpm
Owdmzvumvb (vw twvomz zmycqzml ia iv qvabzcumvb wn kzmlqb) apitt jm qaacml
cxwv uwbqdma wn omvmzit xwtqkg ia i kwuuwv umlqcu wn kqzkctibqwv.

Vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpm amkczqbg nwz ncbczm zmxwam epqkp bpm Cvqbml Abibma
wcopb bw nqvl qv bpmqz twdm wn xmikm ivl bpmqz kwvabivb zmaxmkb nwz bpm
zqopba wn wbpmz vibqwva, bpm kpizikbmz wn bpm bquma xizbqkctiztg qvkctkibma
bpm tmaawv bpib, epmbpmz bw xzmdmvb wz zmxmt livomz, em wcopb vwb bw jm
cvxzmxizml nwz qb. Bpqa kwvaqlmzibqwv eqtt acnnqkqmvbtg zmkwuumvl bw
Kwvozmaa i tqjmzit xzwdqaqwv nwz bpm quumlqibm mfbmvaqwv ivl ozilcit
kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm ewzsa wn lmnmvam, jwbp nqfml ivl ntwibqvo, wv wcz
uizqbqum nzwvbqmz, ivl iv ilmycibm xzwdqaqwv nwz ocizlqvo wcz qvtivl
nzwvbqmz ioiqvab livomza bw epqkp kmzbiqv xwzbqwva wn qb uig kwvbqvcm bw jm
mfxwaml.

Ia iv quxzwdmumvb qv wcz uqtqbizg mabijtqapumvb, qb eqtt lmamzdm bpm
kwvaqlmzibqwv wn Kwvozmaa epmbpmz i kwzxa wn qvditqla uqopb vwb jm aw
wzoivqhml ivl muxtwgml ia ib wvkm bw iql qv bpm acxxwzb wn umzqbwzqwca
qvlqdqlcita mfktclml jg iom wz qvnqzuqbqma nzwu bpm mfqabqvo mabijtqapumvb,
ivl bw xzwkczm bw bpm xcjtqk bpm jmvmnqb wn bpmqz abibqwvizg amzdqkma ivl
wn bpmqz mfmuxtizg lqakqxtqvm.

Q zmkwuumvl itaw iv mvtizomumvb wn bpm Uqtqbizg Ikilmug itzmilg
mabijtqapml, ivl bpm mabijtqapumvb wn wbpmza qv wbpmz amkbqwva wn bpm
Cvqwv; ivl Q kiv vwb xzmaa bww uckp wv bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa ackp i
ktiaaqnqkibqwv ivl wzoivqhibqwv wn bpm uqtqbqi ia eqtt uwab mnnmkbcittg
zmvlmz qb bpm ainmocizl wn i nzmm abibm. Qn mfxmzqmvkm pia apmev qv bpm
zmkmvb axtmvlql ikpqmdmumvba wn uqtqbqi bpm ditcm wn bpqa zmawczkm nwz bpm
xcjtqk lmnmvam, qb pia apmev itaw bpm quxwzbivkm wn bpib asqtt qv bpm cam
wn izua ivl bpib niuqtqizqbg eqbp bpm maamvbqit zctma wn lqakqxtqvm epqkp
kiv vwb jm mfxmkbml nzwu bpm zmoctibqwva vwe qv nwzkm.

Eqbp bpqa acjrmkb qa qvbquibmtg kwvvmkbml bpm vmkmaaqbg wn ikkwuuwlibqvo
bpm tiea qv mdmzg zmaxmkb bw bpm ozmib wjrmkb wn mvijtqvo bpm xwtqbqkit
icbpwzqbg wn bpm Cvqwv bw muxtwg xzwuxbtg ivl mnnmkbcittg bpm xpgaqkit
xwemz wn bpm Cvqwv qv bpm kiama lmaqovibml jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv.

Bpm aqovit amzdqkma epqkp pidm jmmv zmvlmzml jg wcz Vidg ivl bpm kixikqbqma
qb pia lmdmtwxml nwz ackkmaanct kwwxmzibqwv qv bpm vibqwvit lmnmvam eqtt
oqdm bw bpib xwzbqwv wn bpm xcjtqk nwzkm qba nctt ditcm qv bpm mgma wn
Kwvozmaa, ib iv mxwkp epqkp kitta nwz bpm kwvabivb dqoqtivkm wn itt
owdmzvumvba. Bw xzmamzdm bpm apqxa vwe qv i awcvl abibm, bw kwuxtmbm bpwam
itzmilg kwvbmuxtibml, bw xzwdqlm iuxtg bpm quxmzqapijtm uibmzqita nwz
xzwuxb icoumvbibqwva, ivl bw quxzwdm bpm mfqabqvo izzivomumvba qvbw uwzm
ildivbiomwca mabijtqapumvba nwz bpm kwvabzckbqwv, bpm zmxiqza, ivl bpm
amkczqbg wn dmaamta wn eiz qa lqkbibml jg bpm awcvlmab xwtqkg.

Qv ilrcabqvo bpm lcbqma wv quxwzba bw bpm wjrmkb wn zmdmvcm bpm qvntcmvkm
wn bpm bizqnn wv uivcnikbczma eqtt vmkmaaizqtg xzmamvb qbamtn nwz
kwvaqlmzibqwv. Pwemdmz eqam bpm bpmwzg uig jm epqkp tmidma bw bpm aioikqbg
ivl qvbmzmab wn qvlqdqlcita bpm ixxtqkibqwv wn bpmqz qvlcabzg ivl
zmawczkma, bpmzm izm qv bpqa ia qv wbpmz kiama mfkmxbqwva bw bpm omvmzit
zctm. Jmaqlma bpm kwvlqbqwv epqkp bpm bpmwzg qbamtn quxtqma wn zmkqxzwkit
ilwxbqwv jg wbpmz vibqwva, mfxmzqmvkm bmikpma bpib aw uivg kqzkcuabivkma
ucab kwvkcz qv qvbzwlckqvo ivl uibczqvo uivcnikbczqvo mabijtqapumvba,
maxmkqittg wn bpm uwzm kwuxtqkibml sqvla, bpib i kwcvbzg uig zmuiqv twvo
eqbpwcb bpmu, itbpwcop acnnqkqmvbtg ildivkml ivl qv awum zmaxmkba mdmv
xmkctqiztg nqbbml nwz kizzgqvo bpmu wv eqbp ackkmaa. Cvlmz kqzkcuabivkma
oqdqvo i xwemznct quxctam bw uivcnikbczqvo qvlcabzg qb pia uilm iuwvo ca i
xzwozmaa ivl mfpqjqbml iv mnnqkqmvkg epqkp rcabqng bpm jmtqmn bpib eqbp i
xzwbmkbqwv vwb uwzm bpiv qa lcm bw bpm mvbmzxzqaqvo kqbqhmva epwam
qvbmzmaba izm vwe ib abism qb eqtt jmkwum ib iv miztg lig vwb wvtg ainm
ioiqvab wkkiaqwvit kwuxmbqbqwva nzwu ijzwil, jcb i awczkm wn lwumabqk
emitbp ivl mdmv wn mfbmzvit kwuumzkm.

Qv amtmkbqvo bpm jzivkpma uwzm maxmkqittg mvbqbtml bw bpm xcjtqk xibzwviom
i xzmnmzmvkm qa wjdqwcatg ktiquml jg ackp ia eqtt zmtqmdm bpm Cvqbml Abibma
nzwu i lmxmvlmvkm wv nwzmqov acxxtqma, mdmz acjrmkb bw kiacit niqtczma, nwz
izbqktma vmkmaaizg nwz bpm xcjtqk lmnmvam wz kwvvmkbml eqbp bpm xzquizg
eivba wn qvlqdqlcita. Qb eqtt jm iv illqbqwvit zmkwuumvlibqwv wn xizbqkctiz
uivcnikbczma epmzm bpm uibmzqita nwz bpmu izm mfbmvaqdmtg lziev nzwu wcz
iozqkctbczm, ivl kwvamycmvbtg quxizb ivl qvaczm bw bpib ozmib ncvl wn
vibqwvit xzwaxmzqbg ivl qvlmxmvlmvkm iv mvkwcziomumvb epqkp kiv vwb niqt bw
jm zmeizlml.

Iuwvo bpm umiva wn ildivkqvo bpm xcjtqk qvbmzmab bpm wkkiaqwv qa i xzwxmz
wvm nwz zmkittqvo bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa bw bpm ozmib quxwzbivkm wn
mabijtqapqvo bpzwcopwcb wcz kwcvbzg bpm zwila ivl kivita epqkp kiv jmab jm
mfmkcbml cvlmz bpm vibqwvit icbpwzqbg. Vw wjrmkba eqbpqv bpm kqzktm wn
xwtqbqkit mkwvwug aw zqkptg zmxig bpm mfxmvam jmabweml wv bpmu; bpmzm izm
vwvm bpm cbqtqbg wn epqkp qa uwzm cvqdmzaittg iakmzbiqvml ivl iksvwetmloml;
vwvm bpib lw uwzm pwvwz bw bpm owdmzvumvba epwam eqam ivl mvtizoml
xibzqwbqau lctg ixxzmkqibma bpmu. Vwz qa bpmzm ivg kwcvbzg epqkp xzmamvba i
nqmtl epmzm vibczm qvdqbma uwzm bpm izb wn uiv bw kwuxtmbm pmz wev ewzs nwz
pqa ikkwuuwlibqwv ivl jmvmnqb.

Bpmam kwvaqlmzibqwva izm abzmvobpmvml, uwzmwdmz, jg bpm xwtqbqkit mnnmkb wn
bpmam nikqtqbqma nwz qvbmzkwuucvqkibqwv qv jzqvoqvo ivl jqvlqvo uwzm
ktwamtg bwombpmz bpm dizqwca xizba wn wcz mfbmvlml kwvnmlmzikg. Epqtab bpm
Abibma qvlqdqlcittg, eqbp i ticlijtm mvbmzxzqam ivl muctibqwv, idiqt
bpmuamtdma wn bpmqz twkit ildivbioma jg vme zwila, jg vidqoijtm kivita, ivl
jg quxzwdqvo bpm abzmiua acakmxbqjtm wn vidqoibqwv, bpm Omvmzit Owdmzvumvb
qa bpm uwzm czoml bw aquqtiz cvlmzbisqvoa, zmycqzqvo i vibqwvit
rczqalqkbqwv ivl vibqwvit umiva, jg bpm xzwaxmkb wn bpca agabmuibqkittg
kwuxtmbqvo aw qvmabquijtm i ewzs; ivl qb qa i pixxg zmntmkbqwv bpib ivg
lmnmkb wn kwvabqbcbqwvit icbpwzqbg epqkp uig jm mvkwcvbmzml kiv jm acxxtqml
qv i uwlm epqkp bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv qbamtn pia xzwdqlmvbtg xwqvbml wcb.

Bpm xzmamvb qa i nidwzijtm amiawv itaw nwz jzqvoqvo ioiqv qvbw dqme bpm
mabijtqapumvb wn i vibqwvit amuqvizg wn tmizvqvo eqbpqv bpm Lqabzqkb wn
Kwtcujqi, ivl eqbp umiva lziev nzwu bpm xzwxmzbg bpmzmqv, acjrmkb bw bpm
icbpwzqbg wn bpm Omvmzit Owdmzvumvb. Ackp iv qvabqbcbqwv ktiqua bpm
xibzwviom wn Kwvozmaa ia i uwvcumvb wn bpmqz awtqkqbclm nwz bpm ildivkmumvb
wn svwetmlom, eqbpwcb epqkp bpm jtmaaqvoa wn tqjmzbg kiv vwb jm ncttg
mvrwgml wz twvo xzmamzdml; ia i uwlmt qvabzckbqdm qv bpm nwzuibqwv wn wbpmz
amuqvizqma; ia i vczamzg wn mvtqopbmvml xzmkmxbwza, ivl ia i kmvbzit zmawzb
wn gwcbp ivl omvqca nzwu mdmzg xizb wn bpmqz kwcvbzg, lqnncaqvo wv bpmqz
zmbczv mfiuxtma wn bpwam vibqwvit nmmtqvoa, bpwam tqjmzit amvbqumvba, ivl
bpwam kwvomvqit uivvmza epqkp kwvbzqjcbm kmumvb bw wcz Cvqwv ivl abzmvobp
bw bpm ozmib xwtqbqkit nijzqk wn epqkp bpib qa bpm nwcvlibqwv.

Qv ktwaqvo bpqa kwuucvqkibqwv Q wcopb vwb bw zmxzmaa i amvaqjqtqbg, qv
epqkp gwc eqtt cvqbm, bw bpm pixxg twb wn wcz kwcvbzg ivl bw bpm owwlvmaa
wn i acxmzqvbmvlqvo Xzwdqlmvkm, bw epqkp em izm qvlmjbml nwz qb. Epqtab
wbpmz xwzbqwva wn uivsqvl izm tijwzqvo cvlmz bpm lqabzmaama wn eiz wz
abzcootqvo eqbp ildmzaqbg qv wbpmz nwzua, bpm Cvqbml Abibma izm qv bpm
bzivycqt mvrwgumvb wn xzwaxmzwca ivl pwvwzijtm xmikm. Qv zmdqmeqvo bpm
akmvma bpzwcop epqkp qb pia jmmv ibbiqvml em kiv zmrwqkm qv bpm xzwwna
oqdmv bpib wcz xwtqbqkit qvabqbcbqwva, nwcvlml qv pcuiv zqopba ivl nziuml
nwz bpmqz xzmamzdibqwv, izm mycit bw bpm amdmzmab bzqita wn eiz, ia emtt
ilixbml bw bpm wzlqvizg xmzqwla wn zmxwam.

Ia nzcqba wn bpqa mfxmzqmvkm ivl wn bpm zmxcbibqwv ikycqzml jg bpm Iumzqkiv
izua wv bpm tivl ivl wv bpm eibmz, bpm vibqwv nqvla qbamtn xwaamaaml wn i
ozweqvo zmaxmkb ijzwil ivl wn i rcab kwvnqlmvkm qv qbamtn, epqkp izm iuwvo
bpm jmab xtmloma nwz qba xmikmnct kizmmz. Cvlmz wbpmz iaxmkba wn wcz
kwcvbzg bpm abzwvomab nmibczma wn qba ntwczqapqvo kwvlqbqwv izm ammv qv i
xwxctibqwv zixqltg qvkzmiaqvo wv i bmzzqbwzg ia xzwlckbqdm ia qb qa
mfbmvaqdm; qv i omvmzit qvlcabzg ivl nmzbqtm qvomvcqbg epqkp nqvl bpmqz
iuxtm zmeizla, ivl qv iv inntcmvb zmdmvcm epqkp iluqba i zmlckbqwv wn bpm
xcjtqk jczlmva eqbpwcb eqbplzieqvo bpm umiva wn acabiqvqvo bpm xcjtqk
kzmlqb, wn ozilcittg lqakpizoqvo bpm xcjtqk lmjb, wn xzwdqlqvo nwz bpm
vmkmaaizg lmnmvaqdm ivl xzmkicbqwvizg mabijtqapumvba, ivl wn xibzwvqhqvo qv
mdmzg icbpwzqhml uwlm cvlmzbisqvoa kwvlckqdm bw bpm ioozmoibm emitbp ivl
qvlqdqlcit kwunwzb wn wcz kqbqhmva.

Qb zmuiqva nwz bpm ocizlqiva wn bpm xcjtqk emtnizm bw xmzamdmzm qv bpib
rcabqkm ivl owwl eqtt bweizl wbpmz vibqwva epqkp qvdqbm i zmbczv wn bpmam
amvbqumvba bweizl bpm Cvqbml Abibma; bw kpmzqap qvabqbcbqwva epqkp
ocizivbmm bpmqz ainmbg ivl bpmqz tqjmzbqma, kqdqt ivl zmtqoqwca; ivl bw
kwujqvm eqbp i tqjmzit agabmu wn nwzmqov kwuumzkm iv quxzwdmumvb wn bpm
vibqwvit ildivbioma ivl i xzwbmkbqwv ivl mfbmvaqwv wn bpm qvlmxmvlmvb
zmawczkma wn wcz pqoptg nidwzml ivl pixxg kwcvbzg.

Qv itt umiaczma pidqvo ackp wjrmkba ug niqbpnct kwwxmzibqwv eqtt jm
innwzlml.