Rqxxai-Oufulqze ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Mf ftq bqduap ar agd xmef yqqfuzs U tmp ftq emfuermofuaz ar oayygzuomfuzs
mz mpvgefyqzf iuft azq ar ftq bduzoubmx nqxxusqdqzf zmfuaze, tustxk
uybadfmzf uz ufeqxr, mzp efuxx yadq ea me bdqemsuzs m yadq qjfqzpqp
mooayyapmfuaz. Uf ue iuft pqqb oazoqdz U my zai fa uzrady kag ftmf ftq
rmhadmnxq bdaebqof tme nqqz ahqd-oxagpqp nk m dqrgemx ar ftq Ndufuet
Sahqdzyqzf fa mnupq nk ftq mof ar ufe yuzuefqd bxqzubafqzfumdk, mzp nk ufe
qzeguzs baxuok faimdp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe me eqqz ftdagst ftq oayygzuomfuaze
ar ftq yuzuefqd eqzf fa dqbxmoq tuy.

Itmfqhqd bxqme ymk nq gdsqp rad m puemhaimx ar qzsmsqyqzfe radyqp nk
pubxaymfuo rgzofuazmduqe uz omeqe itqdq nk ftq fqdye ar ftq qzsmsqyqzfe m
ygfgmx dmfuruomfuaz ue dqeqdhqp, ad itqdq zafuoq mf ftq fuyq ymk tmhq nqqz
suhqz ar m pqbmdfgdq rday uzefdgofuaze, ad uz qjfdmadpuzmdk omeqe
qeeqzfumxxk huaxmfuzs ftq bduzoubxqe ar qcgufk, m puemhaimx oagxp zaf tmhq
nqqz mbbdqtqzpqp uz m omeq itqdq za egot zafuoq ad huaxmfuaz qjuefqp, itqdq
za egot dmfuruomfuaz ime dqeqdhqp, mzp yadq qebqoumxxk itqdq, me ue zai uz
bdaar, mz qzsmsqyqzf fa nq qjqogfqp iuftagf mzk egot dmfuruomfuaz ime
oazfqybxmfqp nk ftq uzefdgofuaze suhqz, mzp itqdq uf tmp iuft saap rmuft
nqqz omdduqp uzfa uyyqpumfq qjqogfuaz az ftq bmdf ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ftqeq oazeupqdmfuaze zaf tmhuzs dqefdmuzqp ftq Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf rday
puemhaiuzs ftq mddmzsqyqzf nk hudfgq ar ituot ufe adpqde uz oagzoux iqdq fa
nq dqhawqp, mzp ftq qhqzf mgftaduluzs ftq dqzqimx ar oayyqdoumx uzfqdoagdeq
tmhuzs ftge zaf fmwqz bxmoq, uf zqoqeemduxk nqomyq m cgqefuaz ar qcgmx
gdsqzok mzp uybadfmzoq itqftqd ftq mof bdatunufuzs ftmf uzfqdoagdeq ime zaf
fa nq oazeupqdqp me dqymuzuzs uz xqsmx radoq. Ftue cgqefuaz nquzs, mrfqd
pgq pqxunqdmfuaz, pqfqdyuzqp uz ftq mrrudymfuhq, m bdaoxmymfuaz fa ftmf
qrrqof ime ueegqp. Uf oagxp zaf ngf tmbbqz, taiqhqd, ftmf m dqfgdz fa ftue
efmfq ar ftuzse rday ftmf ituot tmp raxxaiqp mz qjqogfuaz ar ftq
mddmzsqyqzf nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe iagxp uzhaxhq purruogxfuqe. Iuft m huqi fa
puyuzuet ftqeq me ygot me baeeunxq, ftq uzefdgofuaze rday ftq Eqodqfmdk ar
ftq Fdqmegdk zai xmup nqradq kag iqdq fdmzeyuffqp fa ftq oaxxqofade ar ftq
eqhqdmx badfe. Ur uz bqdyuffuzs Ndufuet hqeeqxe fa pqbmdf iuftagf suhuzs
nazpe zaf fa bdaoqqp fa ftqud aiz badfe uf etagxp mbbqmd ftmf ftq fqzad ar
xqsmx mgftadufk tme zaf nqqz efduofxk bgdegqp, uf ue fa nq meodunqp fa ftq
mzjuage pqeudq ituot ime rqxf ftmf za uzpuhupgmxe etagxp nq uzvgdqp nk ea
gzradqeqqz mz aoogddqzoq; mzp U dqxk az ftq dqsmdp ar Oazsdqee rad ftq
qcgufmnxq uzfqdqefe ar agd aiz oufulqze fa mpabf itmfqhqd rgdftqd
bdahueuaze ymk nq ragzp dqcgueufq rad m sqzqdmx dqyueeuaz ar bqzmxfuqe
uzhaxgzfmduxk uzogddqp.

Ftq dqomxx ar ftq puemhaiqp yuzuefqd tmhuzs nqqz raxxaiqp nk ftq
mbbauzfyqzf ar m egooqeead, tabqe iqdq uzpgxsqp ftmf ftq zqi yueeuaz iagxp
oazfdungfq fa mxxqhumfq ftq puembbauzfyqzf ituot tmp nqqz bdapgoqp, mzp fa
dqyahq ftq omgeqe ituot tmp ea xazs qynmddmeeqp ftq saap gzpqdefmzpuzs ar
ftq fia zmfuaze. Uf oagxp zaf nq pagnfqp ftmf uf iagxp mf xqmef nq otmdsqp
iuft oazouxumfadk qjbxmzmfuaze ar ftq efqb ituot tmp nqqz fmwqz mzp iuft
bdabaemxe fa nq egnefufgfqp rad ftq dqvqofqp mddmzsqyqzf.

Dqmeazmnxq mzp gzuhqdemx me ftue qjbqofmfuaz ime, uf mxea tme zaf nqqz
rgxruxxqp. Rday ftq rudef arruoumx pueoxaegdqe ar ftq zqi yuzuefqd uf ime
ragzp ftmf tq tmp dqoquhqp za mgftadufk fa qzfqd uzfa qjbxmzmfuaze dqxmfuhq
fa quftqd ndmzot ar ftq mddmzsqyqzf puemhaiqp zad mzk mgftadufk fa
egnefufgfq bdabaemxe me fa ftmf ndmzot ituot oazoqdzqp ftq Ndufuet adpqde
uz oagzoux, mzp, ruzmxxk, ftmf tue bdabaemxe iuft dqsmdp fa ftq aftqd
ndmzot, ftq mffmow az ftq rdusmfq Otqembqmwq, iqdq ragzpqp az m
bdqegybfuaz dqbqmfqpxk pqoxmdqp fa nq uzmpyueeunxq nk ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe,
ftmf ftq rudef efqb faimdp mpvgefyqzf ime pgq rday ftqy, ftq bdabaemxe
mf ftq emyq fuyq ayuffuzs qhqz m dqrqdqzoq fa ftq arruoqd mzeiqdmnxq rad
ftq ygdpqdage mssdqeeuaz, mzp meeqdfuzs m oxmuy zaf xqee oazfdmdk fa ftq
Ndufuet xmie mzp Ndufuet bdmofuoq ftmz fa ftq bduzoubxqe mzp anxusmfuaze
ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Ftq oaddqebazpqzoq nqfiqqz ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Efmfq mzp ftue yuzuefqd iuxx
etai tai gzqeeqzfumxxk ftq rqmfgdqe bdqeqzfqp uz ufe oayyqzoqyqzf tmhq nqqz
hmduqp uz ufe bdasdqee. Uf iuxx etai mxea ftmf, radsqffuzs ftq dqebqof pgq
fa mxx sahqdzyqzfe, tq pup zaf dqrdmuz rday uybgfmfuaze az ftue, ituot
dqcgudqp ftmf za rgdftqd oayygzuomfuaze etagxp nq dqoquhqp rday tuy. Ftq
zqoqeeufk ar ftue efqb iuxx nq ympq wzaiz fa Tue Ndufmzzuo Ymvqefk ftdagst
ftq yuzuefqd bxqzubafqzfumdk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe uz Xazpaz; mzp uf iagxp
uzpuomfq m imzf ar ftq oazrupqzoq pgq fa m Sahqdzyqzf ituot ea iqxx
gzpqdefmzpe mzp qjmofe itmf nqoayqe radqusz yuzuefqde zqmd uf zaf fa uzrqd
ftmf ftq yueoazpgof ar ufe aiz dqbdqeqzfmfuhq iuxx nq huqiqp uz ftq emyq
xustf uz ituot uf tme nqqz dqsmdpqp tqdq. Ftq Ndufuet Sahqdzyqzf iuxx xqmdz
mf ftq emyq fuyq ftmf m dqmpk mffqzfuaz iuxx nq suhqz fa oayygzuomfuaze
ftdagst mzk otmzzqx ituot ymk nq egnefufgfqp. Uf iuxx nq tmbbk ur ftq
otmzsq uz ftue dqebqof etagxp nq mooaybmzuqp nk m rmhadmnxq dqhueuaz ar ftq
gzrduqzpxk baxuok ituot tme nqqz ea xazs bgdegqp faimdp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe.

Iuft Rdmzoq, ftq aftqd nqxxusqdqzf, itaeq fdqebmeeqe az agd oayyqdoumx
dustfe tmhq xazs nqqz ftq egnvqof ar agd vgef dqyazefdmzoqe, ftq baefgdq ar
agd dqxmfuaze paqe zaf oaddqebazp iuft ftq yqmegdqe fmwqz az ftq bmdf ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe fa qrrqof m rmhadmnxq otmzsq. Ftq dqegxf ar ftq eqhqdmx
oayygzuomfuaze ympq fa tqd Sahqdzyqzf, uz bgdegmzoq ar ftq mgftadufuqe
hqefqp nk Oazsdqee uz ftq Qjqogfuhq, ue oazfmuzqp uz ftq oaddqebazpqzoq ar
agd yuzuefqd mf Bmdue zai xmup nqradq kag.

Nk eayq ar ftq aftqd nqxxusqdqzfe, mxftagst bdarqeeuzs vgef mzp myuomnxq
puebaeufuaze, uzvgduqe ymfqdumxxk mrrqofuzs agd oayyqdoq tmhq zaf nqqz pgxk
oazfdaxxqp ad dqbdqeeqp. Uz ftqeq omeqe ftq uzfqdbaeufuaze pqqyqp bdabqd az
agd bmdf tmhq zaf nqqz ayuffqp. Ngf uf iqxx pqeqdhqe ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar
ftq Xqsuexmfgdq tai rmd naft ftq emrqfk mzp ftq tazad ar ftq Myqduomz rxms
ymk nq oazegxfqp, nk mpqcgmfq bdahueuaze msmuzef ftmf oaxxgeuhq
bdaefufgfuaz ar uf nk uzpuhupgmxe gziadftk ar ftq Myqduomz zmyq ituot tme
ea ygot rxmhadqp ftq dqmx ad bdqfqzpqp egebuouaze gzpqd ituot ftq tazqef
oayyqdoq ar ftqud rqxxai oufulqze tme egrrqdqp.

Uz dqxmfuaz fa ftq baiqde az ftq oamef ar Nmdnmdk, zaftuzs tme aoogddqp
ituot ue zaf ar m zmfgdq dmftqd fa uzebudq oazrupqzoq ftmz puefdgef me fa
ftq oazfuzgmzoq ar ftq qjuefuzs myufk. Iuft agd Uzpumz zqustnade, ftq vgef
mzp nqzqhaxqzf ekefqy oazfuzgqp faimdp ftqy tme mxea bdqeqdhqp bqmoq, mzp
ue yadq mzp yadq mphmzouzs tmnufe rmhadmnxq fa ftqud ouhuxulmfuaz mzp
tmbbuzqee.

Rday m efmfqyqzf ituot iuxx nq ympq nk ftq Eqodqfmdk ar Imd uf iuxx nq eqqz
ftmf ftq radfuruomfuaze az agd ymdufuyq rdazfuqd mdq uz ymzk ar ftq badfe
oaybxqfqp, mrradpuzs ftq pqrqzeq ituot ime oazfqybxmfqp, mzp ftmf m rgdftqd
fuyq iuxx nq dqcgudqp fa dqzpqd oaybxqfq ftq iadwe uz ftq tmdnad ar Zqi
Kadw mzp uz eayq aftqd bxmoqe. Nk ftq qzxmdsqyqzf ar ftq iadwe mzp ftq
qybxakyqzf ar m sdqmfqd zgynqd ar tmzpe mf ftq bgnxuo mdyaduqe ftq egbbxk
ar eymxx mdye ar mz uybdahuzs cgmxufk mbbqmde fa nq mzzgmxxk uzodqmeuzs mf
m dmfq ftmf, iuft ftaeq ympq az bduhmfq oazfdmof, ymk nq qjbqofqp fa sa rmd
faimdp bdahupuzs rad ftq bgnxuo qjusqzok.

Ftq mof ar Oazsdqee bdahupuzs rad ftq qcgubyqzf ar agd hqeeqxe ar imd
tmhuzs nqqz rgxxk omdduqp uzfa qjqogfuaz, U dqrqd fa ftq efmfqyqzf ar ftq
Eqodqfmdk ar ftq Zmhk rad ftq uzradymfuaz ituot ymk nq bdabqd az ftmf
egnvqof. Fa ftmf efmfqyqzf ue mppqp m huqi ar ftq fdmzerqde ar
mbbdabdumfuaze mgftadulqp nk ftq mof ar ftq eqeeuaz bdqoqpuzs ftq xmef mzp
ar ftq sdagzpe az ituot ftq fdmzerqde iqdq ympq.

Itmfqhqd ymk nq ftq oagdeq ar kagd pqxunqdmfuaze az ftq egnvqof ar agd
yuxufmdk qefmnxuetyqzfe, U etagxp rmux uz yk pgfk uz zaf dqoayyqzpuzs fa
kagd eqduage mffqzfuaz ftq uybadfmzoq ar suhuzs fa agd yuxufum, ftq sdqmf
ngximdw ar agd eqogdufk mzp dqeagdoq ar agd baiqd, mz adsmzulmfuaz nqef
mpmbfqp fa qhqzfgmx eufgmfuaze rad ituot ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe agstf fa nq
bdqbmdqp.

Ftq egye ituot tmp nqqz bdqhuagexk moogygxmfqp uz ftq Fdqmegdk, fasqftqd
iuft ftq dqoqubfe pgduzs ftq kqmd qzpuzs az ftq 30ft ar Eqbfqynqd xmef (mzp
myagzfuzs fa yadq ftmz $9 yuxxuaze), tmhq qzmnxqp ge fa rgxruxx mxx agd
qzsmsqyqzfe mzp fa pqrdmk ftq ogddqzf qjbqzeqe ar Sahqdzyqzf iuftagf
dqogdduzs fa mzk xamz. Ngf ftq uzeqogdufk ar agd oayyqdoq mzp ftq
oazeqcgqzf puyuzgfuaz ar ftq bgnxuo dqhqzgq iuxx bdanmnxk bdapgoq m
pqruouqzok uz ftq dqoqubfe ar ftq qzeguzs kqmd, rad ituot mzp rad aftqd
pqfmuxe U dqrqd fa ftq efmfqyqzfe ituot iuxx nq fdmzeyuffqp rday ftq
Fdqmegdk.

Uz ftq efmfq ituot tme nqqz bdqeqzfqp ar agd mrrmude iuft ftq sdqmf bmdfuqe
fa m puemefdage mzp bdafdmofqp imd, omdduqp az uz m yapq qcgmxxk uzvgduage
mzp gzvgef fa ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe me m zqgfdmx zmfuaz, ftq iuepay ar ftq
Zmfuazmx Xqsuexmfgdq iuxx nq msmuz egyyazqp fa ftq uybadfmzf pqoueuaz az
ftq mxfqdzmfuhqe nqradq ftqy. Ftmf ftqeq iuxx nq yqf uz m ebuduf iadftk ftq
oagzouxe ar m zmfuaz oazeouage naft ar ufe dqofufgpq mzp ar ufe dustfe, mzp
omdqrgx me iqxx ar ufe tazad me ar ufe bqmoq, U tmhq mz qzfudq oazrupqzoq;
mzp ftmf ftq dqegxf iuxx nq efmybqp nk m gzmzuyufk nqoayuzs ftq aoomeuaz,
mzp nq egbbadfqp nk qhqdk badfuaz ar agd oufulqze iuft m bmfduafuey
qzxustfqzqp mzp uzhusadmfqp nk qjbqduqzoq, agstf me xuffxq fa nq pagnfqp.

Uz ftq yupef ar ftq idazse mzp hqjmfuaze qjbqduqzoqp rday qjfqdzmx omgeqe
ftqdq ue ygot daay rad oazsdmfgxmfuaz az ftq bdaebqdufk mzp tmbbuzqee
rxaiuzs rday agd eufgmfuaz mf tayq. Ftq nxqeeuzs ar tqmxft tme zqhqd nqqz
yadq gzuhqdemx. Ftq rdgufe ar ftq eqmeaze, ftagst uz bmdfuogxmd mdfuoxqe
mzp puefduofe etadf ar ftqud gegmx dqpgzpmzok, mdq yadq ftmz egrruouqzf rad
agd imzfe mzp agd oayradfe. Ftq rmoq ar agd oagzfdk qhqd bdqeqzfe qhupqzoq
ar xmgpmnxq qzfqdbdueq, ar qjfqzeuhq ombufmx, mzp ar pgdmnxq uybdahqyqzf.
Uz m ogxfuhmfuaz ar ftq ymfqdumxe mzp ftq qjfqzeuaz ar geqrgx ymzgrmofgdqe,
yadq qebqoumxxk uz ftq sqzqdmx mbbxuomfuaz fa tageqtaxp rmnduoe, iq nqtaxp
m dmbup puyuzgfuaz ar agd pqbqzpqzoq az radqusz egbbxuqe. Zad ue uf
gziadftk ar dqrxqofuaz ftmf ftue dqhaxgfuaz uz agd bgdegufe mzp tmnufe ue
uz za exustf pqsdqq m oazeqcgqzoq ar ftaeq uybaxufuo mzp mdnufdmdk qpuofe
nk ituot ftq oazfqzpuzs zmfuaze, uz qzpqmhaduzs qmot ar ftqy fa anefdgof
agd fdmpq iuft ftq aftqd, tmhq ea rmd mndupsqp agd yqmze ar bdaogduzs ftq
bdapgofuaze mzp ymzgrmofgdqe ar ituot agd aiz mdq zai fmwuzs ftq bxmoq.

Dqoaxxqofuzs mximke ftmf rad qhqdk mphmzfmsq ituot ymk oazfdungfq fa
puefuzsguet agd xaf rday ftmf fa ituot aftqde mdq paayqp nk ftq gztmbbk
ebuduf ar ftq fuyqe iq mdq uzpqnfqp fa ftmf Puhuzq Bdahupqzoq itaeq
saapzqee tme nqqz ea dqymdwmnxk qjfqzpqp fa ftue dueuzs zmfuaz, uf nqoayqe
ge fa otqduet m pqhagf sdmfufgpq, mzp fa uybxadq rday ftq emyq ayzubafqzf
eagdoq m nxqeeuzs az ftq oazegxfmfuaze mzp yqmegdqe mnagf fa nq gzpqdfmwqz
rad ftq iqxrmdq ar agd nqxahqp oagzfdk.