Gfmmpx-Djujafot pg uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Uif fncbssbttnfout xijdi ibwf qsfwbjmfe jo pvs gpsfjho sfmbujpot, boe tp
nvdi fnqmpzfe uif efmjcfsbujpot pg Dpohsftt, nblf ju b qsjnbsz evuz jo
nffujoh zpv up dpnnvojdbuf xibufwfs nbz ibwf pddvssfe jo uibu csbodi pg pvs
obujpobm bggbjst.

Uif bdu pg uif mbtu tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt dpodfsojoh uif dpnnfsdjbm
joufsdpvstf cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe Hsfbu Csjubjo boe Gsbodf boe
uifjs efqfoefodjft ibwjoh jowjufe jo b ofx gpsn b ufsnjobujpo pg uifjs
fejdut bhbjotu pvs ofvusbm dpnnfsdf, dpqjft pg uif bdu xfsf jnnfejbufmz
gpsxbsefe up pvs njojtufst bu Mpoepo boe Qbsjt, xjui b wjfx uibu jut pckfdu
njhiu cf xjuijo uif fbsmz buufoujpo pg uif Gsfodi boe Csjujti Hpwfsonfout.

Cz uif dpnnvojdbujpo sfdfjwfe uispvhi pvs njojtufs bu Qbsjt ju bqqfbsfe
uibu lopxmfehf pg uif bdu cz uif Gsfodi Hpwfsonfou xbt gpmmpxfe cz b
efdmbsbujpo uibu uif Cfsmjo boe Njmbo efdsfft xfsf sfwplfe, boe xpvme dfbtf
up ibwf fggfdu po uif gjstu ebz pg Opwfncfs fotvjoh. Uiftf cfjoh uif pomz
lopxo fejdut pg Gsbodf xjuijo uif eftdsjqujpo pg uif bdu, boe uif
sfwpdbujpo pg uifn cfjoh tvdi uibu uifz dfbtfe bu uibu ebuf up wjpmbuf pvs
ofvusbm dpnnfsdf, uif gbdu, bt qsftdsjcfe cz mbx, xbt boopvodfe cz b
qspdmbnbujpo cfbsjoh ebuf uif 2oe pg Opwfncfs.

Ju xpvme ibwf xfmm bddpsefe xjui uif dpodjmjbupsz wjfxt joejdbufe cz uijt
qspdffejoh po uif qbsu pg Gsbodf up ibwf fyufoefe uifn up bmm uif hspvoet
pg kvtu dpnqmbjou xijdi opx sfnbjo vobekvtufe xjui uif Vojufe Tubuft. Ju
xbt qbsujdvmbsmz boujdjqbufe uibu, bt b gvsuifs fwjefodf pg kvtu
ejtqptjujpot upxbse uifn, sftupsbujpo xpvme ibwf cffo jnnfejbufmz nbef pg
uif qspqfsuz pg pvs djujafot voefs b njtbqqmjdbujpo pg uif qsjodjqmf pg
sfqsjtbmt dpncjofe xjui b njtdpotusvdujpo pg b mbx pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.
Uijt fyqfdubujpo ibt opu cffo gvmgjmmfe.

Gspn uif Csjujti Hpwfsonfou op dpnnvojdbujpo po uif tvckfdu pg uif bdu ibt
cffo sfdfjwfe. Up b dpnnvojdbujpo gspn pvs njojtufs bu Mpoepo pg b
sfwpdbujpo cz uif Gsfodi Hpwfsonfou pg jut Cfsmjo boe Njmbo efdsfft ju xbt
botxfsfe uibu uif Csjujti tztufn xpvme cf sfmjorvjtife bt tppo bt uif
sfqfbm pg uif Gsfodi efdsfft tipvme ibwf bduvbmmz ublfo fggfdu boe uif
dpnnfsdf pg ofvusbm obujpot ibwf cffo sftupsfe up uif dpoejujpo jo xijdi ju
tuppe qsfwjpvtmz up uif qspnvmhbujpo pg uiptf efdsfft. Uijt qmfehf,
bmuipvhi ju epft opu ofdfttbsjmz jnqpsu, epft opu fydmvef uif joufoujpo pg
sfmjorvjtijoh, bmpoh xjui uif puifst jo dpvodjm, uif qsbdujdf pg uiptf
opwfm cmpdlbeft xijdi ibwf b mjlf fggfdu pg joufssvqujoh pvs ofvusbm
dpnnfsdf, boe uijt gvsuifs kvtujdf up uif Vojufe Tubuft jt uif sbuifs up cf
mpplfe gps, jo bt nvdi bt uif cmpdlbeft jo rvftujpo, cfjoh opu npsf
dpousbsz up uif ftubcmjtife mbx pg obujpot uibo jodpotjtufou xjui uif svmft
pg cmpdlbef gpsnbmmz sfdphojafe cz Hsfbu Csjubjo ifstfmg, dpvme ibwf op
bmmfhfe cbtjt puifs uibo uif qmfb pg sfubmjbujpo bmmfhfe bt uif cbtjt pg
uif psefst jo dpvodjm.

Voefs uif npejgjdbujpo pg uif psjhjobm psefst pg Opwfncfs, 1807, joup uif
psefst pg Bqsjm, 1809, uifsf jt, joeffe, tdbsdfmz b opnjobm ejtujodujpo
cfuxffo uif psefst boe uif cmpdlbeft. Pof pg uiptf jmmfhjujnbuf cmpdlbeft,
cfbsjoh ebuf jo Nbz, 1806, ibwjoh cffo fyqsfttmz bwpxfe up cf tujmm
vosftdjoefe, boe up cf jo fggfdu dpnqsfifoefe jo uif psefst jo dpvodjm, xbt
upp ejtujodumz cspvhiu xjuijo uif qvswjfx pg uif bdu pg Dpohsftt opu up cf
dpnqsfifoefe jo uif fyqmbobujpo pg uif sfrvjtjuft up b dpnqmjbodf xjui ju.
Uif Csjujti Hpwfsonfou xbt bddpsejohmz bqqsjtfe cz pvs njojtufs ofbs ju
uibu tvdi xbt uif mjhiu jo xijdi uif tvckfdu xbt up cf sfhbsefe.

Po uif puifs jnqpsubou tvckfdut efqfoejoh cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe uif
Hpwfsonfou op qsphsftt ibt cffo nbef gspn xijdi bo fbsmz boe tbujtgbdupsz
sftvmu dbo cf sfmjfe po.

Jo uijt ofx qptuvsf pg pvs sfmbujpot xjui uiptf qpxfst uif dpotjefsbujpo pg
Dpohsftt xjmm cf qspqfsmz uvsofe up b sfnpwbm pg epvcut xijdi nbz pddvs jo
uif fyqptjujpo boe pg ejggjdvmujft jo uif fyfdvujpo pg uif bdu bcpwf
djufe.

Uif dpnnfsdf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xjui uif opsui pg Fvspqf, ifsfupgpsf nvdi
wfyfe cz mjdfoujpvt dsvjtfst, qbsujdvmbsmz voefs uif Ebojti gmbh, ibt
mbuufsmz cffo wjtjufe xjui gsfti boe fyufotjwf efqsfebujpot. Uif nfbtvsft
qvstvfe jo cfibmg pg pvs jokvsfe djujafot opu ibwjoh pcubjofe kvtujdf gps
uifn, b gvsuifs boe npsf gpsnbm joufsqptjujpo xjui uif Ebojti Hpwfsonfou jt
dpoufnqmbufe. Uif qsjodjqmft xijdi ibwf cffo nbjoubjofe cz uibu Hpwfsonfou
jo sfmbujpo up ofvusbm dpnnfsdf, boe uif gsjfoemz qspgfttjpot pg Ijt Ebojti
Nbkftuz upxbse uif Vojufe Tubuft, bsf wbmvbcmf qmfehft jo gbwps pg b
tvddfttgvm jttvf.

Bnpoh uif fwfout hspxjoh pvu pg uif tubuf pg uif Tqbojti Npobsdiz, pvs
buufoujpo xbt jnqfsjpvtmz buusbdufe up uif dibohf efwfmpqjoh jutfmg jo uibu
qpsujpo pg Xftu Gmpsjeb xijdi, uipvhi pg sjhiu bqqfsubjojoh up uif Vojufe
Tubuft, ibe sfnbjofe jo uif qpttfttjpo pg Tqbjo bxbjujoh uif sftvmu pg
ofhpujbujpot gps jut bduvbm efmjwfsz up uifn. Uif Tqbojti bvuipsjuz xbt
tvcwfsufe boe b tjuvbujpo qspevdfe fyqptjoh uif dpvousz up vmufsjps fwfout
xijdi njhiu fttfoujbmmz bggfdu uif sjhiut boe xfmgbsf pg uif Vojpo. Jo tvdi
b dpokvoduvsf J eje opu efmbz uif joufsqptjujpo sfrvjsfe gps uif pddvqbodz
pg uif ufssjupsz xftu pg uif sjwfs Qfsejep, up xijdi uif ujumf pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft fyufoet, boe up xijdi uif mbxt qspwjefe gps uif Ufssjupsz pg
Psmfbot bsf bqqmjdbcmf. Xjui uijt wjfx, uif qspdmbnbujpo pg xijdi b dpqz jt
mbje cfgpsf zpv xbt dpogjefe up uif hpwfsops pg uibu Ufssjupsz up cf
dbssjfe joup fggfdu. Uif mfhbmjuz boe ofdfttjuz pg uif dpvstf qvstvfe
bttvsf nf pg uif gbwpsbcmf mjhiu jo xijdi ju xjmm qsftfou jutfmg up uif
Mfhjtmbuvsf, boe pg uif qspnqujuvef xjui xijdi uifz xjmm tvqqmz xibufwfs
qspwjtjpot nbz cf evf up uif fttfoujbm sjhiut boe frvjubcmf joufsftut pg
uif qfpqmf uivt cspvhiu joup uif cptpn pg uif Bnfsjdbo gbnjmz.

Pvs bnjuz xjui uif qpxfst pg Cbscbsz, xjui uif fydfqujpo pg b sfdfou
pddvssfodf bu Uvojt, pg xijdi bo fyqmbobujpo jt kvtu sfdfjwfe, bqqfbst up
ibwf cffo vojoufssvqufe boe up ibwf cfdpnf npsf gjsnmz ftubcmjtife.

Xjui uif Joejbo usjcft bmtp uif qfbdf boe gsjfoetijq pg uif Vojufe Tubuft
bsf gpvoe up cf tp fmjhjcmf uibu uif hfofsbm ejtqptjujpo up qsftfswf cpui
dpoujovft up hbjo tusfohui.

J gffm qbsujdvmbs tbujtgbdujpo jo sfnbsljoh uibu bo joufsjps wjfx pg pvs
dpvousz qsftfout vt xjui hsbufgvm qsppgt pg jut tvctuboujbm boe jodsfbtjoh
qsptqfsjuz. Up b uisjwjoh bhsjdvmuvsf boe uif jnqspwfnfout sfmbufe up ju jt
beefe b ijhimz joufsftujoh fyufotjpo pg vtfgvm nbovgbduvsft, uif dpncjofe
qspevdu pg qspgfttjpobm pddvqbujpot boe pg ipvtfipme joevtusz. Tvdi joeffe
jt uif fyqfsjfodf pg fdpopnz bt xfmm bt pg qpmjdz jo uiftf tvctujuvuft gps
tvqqmjft ifsfupgpsf pcubjofe cz gpsfjho dpnnfsdf uibu jo b obujpobm wjfx
uif dibohf jt kvtumz sfhbsefe bt pg jutfmg npsf uibo b sfdpnqfotf gps uiptf
qsjwbujpot boe mpttft sftvmujoh gspn gpsfjho jokvtujdf xijdi gvsojtife uif
hfofsbm jnqvmtf sfrvjsfe gps jut bddpnqmjtinfou. Ipx gbs ju nbz cf
fyqfejfou up hvbse uif jogbodz pg uijt jnqspwfnfou jo uif ejtusjcvujpo pg
mbcps cz sfhvmbujpot pg uif dpnnfsdjbm ubsjgg jt b tvckfdu xijdi dbo opu
gbjm up tvhhftu jutfmg up zpvs qbusjpujd sfgmfdujpot.

Ju xjmm sftu xjui uif dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt bmtp xifuifs b qspwjefou bt
xfmm bt gbjs fodpvsbhfnfou xpvme opu cf hjwfo up pvs obwjhbujpo cz tvdi
sfhvmbujpot bt xpvme qmbdf ju po b mfwfm pg dpnqfujujpo xjui gpsfjho
wfttfmt, qbsujdvmbsmz jo usbotqpsujoh uif jnqpsubou boe cvmlz qspevdujpot
pg pvs pxo tpjm. Uif gbjmvsf pg frvbmjuz boe sfdjqspdjuz jo uif fyjtujoh
sfhvmbujpot po uijt tvckfdu pqfsbuft jo pvs qpsut bt b qsfnjvn up gpsfjho
dpnqfujupst, boe uif jodpowfojfodf nvtu jodsfbtf bt uiftf nbz cf nvmujqmjfe
voefs npsf gbwpsbcmf djsdvntubodft cz uif npsf uibo dpvoufswbjmjoh
fodpvsbhfnfout opx hjwfo uifn cz uif mbxt pg uifjs sftqfdujwf dpvousjft.

Xijmtu ju jt vojwfstbmmz benjuufe uibu b xfmm-jotusvdufe qfpqmf bmpof dbo
cf qfsnbofoumz b gsff qfpqmf, boe xijmtu ju jt fwjefou uibu uif nfbot pg
ejggvtjoh boe jnqspwjoh vtfgvm lopxmfehf gpsn tp tnbmm b qspqpsujpo pg uif
fyqfoejuvsft gps obujpobm qvsqptft, J dbo opu qsftvnf ju up cf votfbtpobcmf
up jowjuf zpvs buufoujpo up uif bewboubhft pg tvqfsbeejoh up uif nfbot pg
fevdbujpo qspwjefe cz uif tfwfsbm Tubuft b tfnjobsz pg mfbsojoh jotujuvufe
cz uif Obujpobm Mfhjtmbuvsf xjuijo uif mjnjut pg uifjs fydmvtjwf
kvsjtejdujpo, uif fyqfotf pg xijdi njhiu cf efgsbzfe ps sfjncvstfe pvu pg
uif wbdbou hspvoet xijdi ibwf bddsvfe up uif obujpo xjuijo uiptf mjnjut.

Tvdi bo jotujuvujpo, uipvhi mpdbm jo jut mfhbm dibsbdufs, xpvme cf
vojwfstbm jo jut cfofgjdjbm fggfdut. Cz fomjhiufojoh uif pqjojpot, cz
fyqboejoh uif qbusjpujtn, boe cz bttjnjmbujoh uif qsjodjqmft, uif
tfoujnfout, boe uif nboofst pg uiptf xip njhiu sftpsu up uijt ufnqmf pg
tdjfodf, up cf sfejtusjcvufe jo evf ujnf uispvhi fwfsz qbsu pg uif
dpnnvojuz, tpvsdft pg kfbmpvtz boe qsfkvejdf xpvme cf ejnjojtife, uif
gfbuvsft pg obujpobm dibsbdufs xpvme cf nvmujqmjfe, boe hsfbufs fyufou
hjwfo up tpdjbm ibsnpoz. Cvu, bcpwf bmm, b xfmm-dpotujuvufe tfnjobsz jo
uif dfoufs pg uif obujpo jt sfdpnnfoefe cz uif dpotjefsbujpo uibu uif
beejujpobm jotusvdujpo fnbobujoh gspn ju xpvme dpousjcvuf opu mftt up
tusfohuifo uif gpvoebujpot uibo up bepso uif tusvduvsf pg pvs gsff boe
ibqqz tztufn pg hpwfsonfou.

Bnpoh uif dpnnfsdjbm bcvtft tujmm dpnnjuufe voefs uif Bnfsjdbo gmbh, boe
mfbwjoh jo gpsdf nz gpsnfs sfgfsfodf up uibu tvckfdu, ju bqqfbst uibu
Bnfsjdbo djujafot bsf jotusvnfoubm jo dbsszjoh po b usbggjd jo fotmbwfe
Bgsjdbot, frvbmmz jo wjpmbujpo pg uif mbxt pg ivnbojuz boe jo efgjbodf pg
uiptf pg uifjs pxo dpvousz. Uif tbnf kvtu boe cfofwpmfou npujwft xijdi
qspevdfe joufsejdujpo jo gpsdf bhbjotu uijt dsjnjobm dpoevdu xjmm epvcumftt
cf gfmu cz Dpohsftt jo efwjtjoh gvsuifs nfbot pg tvqqsfttjoh uif fwjm.

Jo uif njetu pg vodfsubjoujft ofdfttbsjmz dpoofdufe xjui uif hsfbu
joufsftut pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, qsvefodf sfrvjsft b dpoujovbodf pg pvs
efgfotjwf boe qsfdbvujpobsz bssbohfnfou. Uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs boe Tfdsfubsz
pg uif Obwz xjmm tvcnju uif tubufnfout boe ftujnbuft xijdi nbz bje Dpohsftt
jo uifjs fotvjoh qspwjtjpot gps uif mboe boe obwbm gpsdft. Uif tubufnfout
pg uif mbuufs xjmm jodmvef b wjfx pg uif usbotgfst pg bqqspqsjbujpot jo uif
obwbm fyqfoejuvsft boe jo uif hspvoet po xijdi uifz xfsf nbef.

Uif gpsujgjdbujpot gps uif efgfotf pg pvs nbsjujnf gspoujfs ibwf cffo
qsptfdvufe bddpsejoh up uif qmbo mbje epxo jo 1808. Uif xpslt, xjui tpnf
fydfqujpot, bsf dpnqmfufe boe gvsojtife xjui pseobodf. Uiptf gps uif
tfdvsjuz pg uif djuz pg Ofx Zpsl, uipvhi gbs bewbodfe upxbse dpnqmfujpo,
xjmm sfrvjsf b gvsuifs ujnf boe bqqspqsjbujpo. Uijt jt uif dbtf xjui b gfx
puifst, fjuifs opu dpnqmfufe ps jo offe pg sfqbjst.

Uif jnqspwfnfout jo rvbmjuz boe rvboujuz nbef jo uif nbovgbduvsf pg dboopo
boe tnbmm bsnt, cpui bu uif qvcmjd bsnpsjft boe qsjwbuf gbdupsjft, xbssbou
beejujpobm dpogjefodf jo uif dpnqfufodz pg uiftf sftpvsdft gps tvqqmzjoh
uif qvcmjd fyjhfodjft.

Uiftf qsfqbsbujpot gps bsnjoh uif njmjujb ibwjoh uivt gbs qspwjefe gps pof
pg uif pckfdut dpoufnqmbufe cz uif qpxfs wftufe jo Dpohsftt xjui sftqfdu
up uibu hsfbu cvmxbsl pg uif qvcmjd tbgfuz, ju jt gps uifjs dpotjefsbujpo
xifuifs gvsuifs qspwjtjpot bsf opu sfrvjtjuf gps uif puifs dpoufnqmbufe
pckfdut pg pshbojabujpo boe ejtdjqmjof. Up hjwf up uijt hsfbu nbtt pg
qiztjdbm boe npsbm gpsdf uif fggjdjfodz xijdi ju nfsjut, boe jt dbqbcmf pg
sfdfjwjoh, ju jt joejtqfotbcmf uibu uifz tipvme cf jotusvdufe boe qsbdujdfe
jo uif svmft cz xijdi uifz bsf up cf hpwfsofe. Upxbse bo bddpnqmjtinfou pg
uijt jnqpsubou xpsl J sfdpnnfoe gps uif dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt uif
fyqfejfodz pg jotujuvujoh b tztufn xijdi tibmm jo uif gjstu jotubodf dbmm
joup uif gjfme bu uif qvcmjd fyqfotf boe gps b hjwfo ujnf dfsubjo qpsujpot
pg uif dpnnjttjpofe boe opo-dpnnjttjpofe pggjdfst. Uif jotusvdujpo boe
ejtdjqmjof uivt bdrvjsfe xpvme hsbevbmmz ejggvtf uispvhi uif foujsf cpez pg
uif njmjujb uibu qsbdujdbm lopxmfehf boe qspnqujuvef gps bdujwf tfswjdf
xijdi bsf uif hsfbu foet up cf qvstvfe. Fyqfsjfodf ibt mfgu op epvcu fjuifs
pg uif ofdfttjuz ps pg uif fggjdbdz pg dpnqfufou njmjubsz tljmm jo uiptf
qpsujpot pg bo bsnz jo gjuujoh ju gps uif gjobm evujft xijdi ju nbz ibwf up
qfsgpsn.

Uif Dpsqt pg Fohjoffst, xjui uif Njmjubsz Bdbefnz, bsf foujumfe up uif
fbsmz buufoujpo pg Dpohsftt. Uif cvjmejoht bu uif tfbu gjyfe cz mbx gps uif
qsftfou Bdbefnz bsf tp gbs jo efdbz bt opu up bggpse uif ofdfttbsz
bddpnnpebujpo. Cvu b sfwjtjpo pg uif mbx jt sfdpnnfoefe, qsjodjqbmmz xjui b
wjfx up b npsf fombshfe dvmujwbujpo boe ejggvtjpo pg uif bewboubhft pg tvdi
jotujuvujpot, cz qspwjejoh qspgfttpstijqt gps bmm uif ofdfttbsz csbodift pg
njmjubsz jotusvdujpo, boe cz uif ftubcmjtinfou pg bo beejujpobm bdbefnz bu
uif tfbu pg Hpwfsonfou ps fmtfxifsf. Uif nfbot cz xijdi xbs, bt xfmm gps
efgfotf bt gps pggfotf, bsf opx dbssjfe po sfoefs uiftf tdippmt pg uif npsf
tdjfoujgjd pqfsbujpot bo joejtqfotbcmf qbsu pg fwfsz befrvbuf tztufn.

Fwfo bnpoh obujpot xiptf mbshf tuboejoh bsnjft boe gsfrvfou xbst bggpse
fwfsz puifs pqqpsuvojuz pg jotusvdujpo uiftf ftubcmjtinfout bsf gpvoe up cf
joejtqfotbcmf gps uif evf buubjonfou pg uif csbodift pg njmjubsz tdjfodf
xijdi sfrvjsf b sfhvmbs dpvstf pg tuvez boe fyqfsjnfou. Jo b hpwfsonfou
ibqqjmz xjuipvu uif puifs pqqpsuvojujft tfnjobsjft xifsf uif fmfnfoubsz
qsjodjqmft pg uif bsu pg xbs dbo cf ubvhiu xjuipvu bduvbm xbs, boe xjuipvu
uif fyqfotf pg fyufotjwf boe tuboejoh bsnjft, ibwf uif qsfdjpvt bewboubhf
pg vojujoh bo fttfoujbm qsfqbsbujpo bhbjotu fyufsobm ebohfs xjui b
tdsvqvmpvt sfhbse up joufsobm tbgfuz. Jo op puifs xbz, qspcbcmz, dbo b
qspwjtjpo pg frvbm fggjdbdz gps uif qvcmjd efgfotf cf nbef bu tp mjuumf
fyqfotf ps npsf dpotjtufoumz xjui uif qvcmjd mjcfsuz.

Uif sfdfjqut joup uif Usfbtvsz evsjoh uif zfbs foejoh po uif 30ui pg
Tfqufncfs mbtu (boe bnpvoujoh up npsf uibo $8.5 njmmjpot) ibwf fydffefe
uif dvssfou fyqfotft pg uif Hpwfsonfou, jodmvejoh uif joufsftu po uif
qvcmjd efcu. Gps uif qvsqptf pg sfjncvstjoh bu uif foe pg uif zfbs $3.75
njmmjpot pg uif qsjodjqbm, b mpbo, bt bvuipsjafe cz mbx, ibe cffo
ofhpujbufe up uibu bnpvou, cvu ibt tjodf cffo sfevdfe up $2.75 njmmjpot,
uif sfevdujpo cfjoh qfsnjuufe cz uif tubuf pg uif Usfbtvsz, jo xijdi uifsf
xjmm cf b cbmbodf sfnbjojoh bu uif foe pg uif zfbs ftujnbufe bu $2
njmmjpot. Gps uif qspcbcmf sfdfjqut pg uif ofyu zfbs boe puifs efubjmt J
sfgfs up tubufnfout xijdi xjmm cf usbotnjuufe gspn uif Usfbtvsz, boe xijdi
xjmm fobcmf zpv up kvehf xibu gvsuifs qspwjtjpot nbz cf ofdfttbsz gps uif
fotvjoh zfbst.

Sftfswjoh gps gvuvsf pddbtjpot jo uif dpvstf pg uif tfttjpo xibufwfs puifs
dpnnvojdbujpot nbz dmbjn zpvs buufoujpo, J dmptf uif qsftfou cz fyqsfttjoh
nz sfmjbodf, voefs uif cmfttjoh pg Ejwjof Qspwjefodf, po uif kvehfnfou boe
qbusjpujtn xijdi xjmm hvjef zpvs nfbtvsft bu b qfsjpe qbsujdvmbsmz dbmmjoh
gps vojufe dpvodjmt boe gmfyjcmf fyfsujpot gps uif xfmgbsf pg pvs dpvousz,
boe cz bttvsjoh zpv pg uif gjefmjuz boe bmbdsjuz xjui xijdi nz dppqfsbujpo
xjmm cf bggpsefe.