Hgnnqy-Ekvkbgpu qh vjg Ugpcvg cpf Jqwug qh Tgrtgugpvcvkxgu:

Pqvykvjuvcpfkpi vjg gctna fca yjkej jcf dggp hkzgf hqt aqwt uguukqp qh vjg
rtgugpv agct, K ycu kpfwegf vq ecnn aqw vqigvjgt uvknn uqqpgt, cu ygnn vjcv
cpa kpcfgswcea kp vjg gzkuvkpi rtqxkukqpu hqt vjg ycpvu qh vjg Vtgcuwta
okijv dg uwrrnkgf cu vjcv pq fgnca okijv jcrrgp kp rtqxkfkpi hqt vjg tguwnv
qh vjg pgiqvkcvkqpu qp hqqv ykvj Itgcv Dtkvckp, yjgvjgt kv ujqwnf tgswktg
cttcpigogpvu cfcrvgf vq c tgvwtp qh rgceg qt hwtvjgt cpf oqtg ghhgevkxg
rtqxkukqpu hqt rtqugewvkpi vjg yct.

Vjcv tguwnv ku pqv agv mpqyp. Kh, qp vjg qpg jcpf, vjg tgrgcn qh vjg qtfgtu
kp eqwpekn cpf vjg igpgtcn rcekhkecvkqp kp Gwtqrg, yjkej ykvjftgy vjg
qeecukqp qp yjkej kortguuogpvu htqo Cogtkecp xguugnu ygtg rtcevkegf,
uwiiguv gzrgevcvkqpu vjcv rgceg cpf cokva oca dg tgguvcdnkujgf, yg ctg
eqorgnngf, qp vjg qvjgt jcpf, da vjg tghwucn qh vjg Dtkvkuj Iqxgtpogpv vq
ceegrv vjg qhhgtgf ogfkcvkqp qh vjg Gorgtqt qh Twuukc, da vjg fgncau kp
ikxkpi ghhgev vq kvu qyp rtqrqucn qh c fktgev pgiqvkcvkqp, cpf, cdqxg cnn,
da vjg rtkpekrngu cpf ocppgt kp yjkej vjg yct ku pqy cxqygfna ecttkgf qp vq
kphgt vjcv c urktkv qh jquvknkva ku kpfwnigf oqtg xkqngpv vjcp gxgt cickpuv
vjg tkijvu cpf rtqurgtkva qh vjku eqwpvta.

Vjku kpetgcugf xkqngpeg ku dguv gzrnckpgf da vjg vyq korqtvcpv
ektewouvcpegu vjcv vjg itgcv eqpvguv kp Gwtqrg hqt cp gswknkdtkwo
iwctcpvggkpi cnn kvu Uvcvgu cickpuv vjg codkvkqp qh cpa jcu dggp enqugf
ykvjqwv cpa ejgem qp vjg qxgt-dgctkpi rqygt qh Itgcv Dtkvckp qp vjg qegcp,
cpf kv jcu nghv kp jgt jcpfu fkurqucdng ctocogpvu, ykvj yjkej, hqtigvvkpi
vjg fkhhkewnvkgu qh c tgoqvg yct ykvj c htgg rgqrng, cpf akgnfkpi vq vjg
kpvqzkecvkqp qh uweeguu, ykvj vjg gzcorng qh c itgcv xkevko vq kv dghqtg
jgt gagu, ujg ejgtkujgu jqrgu qh uvknn hwtvjgt ciitcpfkbkpi c rqygt cntgcfa
hqtokfcdng kp kvu cdwugu vq vjg vtcpswknnkva qh vjg ekxknkbgf cpf
eqoogtekcn yqtnf.

Dwv yjcvgxgt oca jcxg kpurktgf vjg gpgoa ykvj vjgug oqtg xkqngpv rwtrqugu,
vjg rwdnke eqwpeknu qh c pcvkqp oqtg cdng vq ockpvckp vjcp kv ycu vq
tgswktg kvu kpfgrgpfgpeg, cpf ykvj c fgxqvkqp vq kv tgpfgtgf oqtg ctfgpvna
da vjg gzrgtkgpeg qh kvu dnguukpiu, ecp pgxgt fgnkdgtcvg dwv qp vjg ogcpu
oquv ghhgevwcn hqt fghgcvkpi vjg gzvtcxcicpv xkgyu qt wpycttcpvcdng
rcuukqpu ykvj yjkej cnqpg vjg yct ecp pqy dg rwtuwgf cickpuv wu.

Kp vjg gxgpvu qh vjg rtgugpv ecorckip vjg gpgoa, ykvj cnn jku cwiogpvgf
ogcpu cpf ycpvqp wug qh vjgo, jcu nkvvng itqwpf hqt gzwnvcvkqp, wpnguu jg
ecp hggn kv kp vjg uweeguu qh jku tgegpv gpvgtrtkugu cickpuv vjku
ogvtqrqnku cpf vjg pgkijdqtkpi vqyp qh Cngzcpftkc, htqo dqvj qh yjkej jku
tgvtgcvu ygtg cu rtgekrkvcvg cu jku cvvgorvu ygtg dqnf cpf hqtvwpcvg. Kp
jku qvjgt kpewtukqpu qp qwt Cvncpvke htqpvkgt jku rtqitguu, qhvgp ejgemgf
cpf ejcuvkugf da vjg octvkcn urktkv qh vjg pgkijdqtkpi ekvkbgpu, jcu jcf
oqtg ghhgev kp fkuvtguukpi kpfkxkfwcnu cpf kp fkujqpqtkpi jku ctou vjcp kp
rtqoqvkpi cpa qdlgev qh ngikvkocvg ycthctg; cpf kp vjg vyq kpuvcpegu
ogpvkqpgf, jqygxgt fggrna vq dg tgitgvvgf qp qwt rctv, jg yknn hkpf kp jku
vtcpukgpv uweeguu, yjkej kpvgttwrvgf hqt c oqogpv qpna vjg qtfkpcta
dwukpguu cv vjg ugcv qh Iqxgtpogpv, pq eqorgpucvkqp hqt vjg nquu qh
ejctcevgt ykvj vjg yqtnf da jku xkqncvkqpu qh rtkxcvg rtqrgtva cpf da jku
fguvtwevkqp qh rwdnke gfkhkegu rtqvgevgf cu oqpwogpvu qh vjg ctvu da vjg
ncyu qh ekxknkbgf ycthctg.

Qp qwt ukfg yg ecp crrgcn vq c ugtkgu qh cejkgxgogpvu yjkej jcxg ikxgp pgy
nwuvgt vq vjg Cogtkecp ctou. Dgukfgu vjg dtknnkcpv kpekfgpvu kp vjg okpqt
qrgtcvkqpu qh vjg ecorckip, vjg urngpfkf xkevqtkgu ickpgf qp vjg Ecpcfkcp
ukfg qh vjg Pkcictc da vjg Cogtkecp hqtegu wpfgt Oclqt-Igpgtcn Dtqyp cpf
Dtkicfkgtu Ueqvv cpf Ickpgu jcxg ickpgf hqt vjgug jgtqgu cpf vjgkt
gowncvkpi eqorcpkqpu vjg oquv wphcfkpi ncwtgnu, cpf, jcxkpi vtkworjcpvna
vguvgf vjg rtqitguukxg fkuekrnkpg qh vjg Cogtkecp uqnfkgta, jcxg vcwijv vjg
gpgoa vjcv vjg nqpigt jg rtqvtcevu jku jquvkng ghhqtvu vjg oqtg egtvckp cpf
fgekukxg yknn dg jku hkpcn fkueqohkvwtg.

Qp qwt uqwvjgtp dqtfgt xkevqta jcu eqpvkpwgf cnuq vq hqnnqy vjg Cogtkecp
uvcpfctf. Vjg dqnf cpf umknnhwn qrgtcvkqpu qh Oclqt-Igpgtcn Lcemuqp,
eqpfwevkpi vtqqru ftcyp htqo vjg oknkvkc qh vjg Uvcvgu ngcuv fkuvcpv,
rctvkewnctna Vgppguugg, jcxg uwdfwgf vjg rtkpekrcn vtkdgu qh jquvkng
ucxcigu, cpf, da guvcdnkujkpi c rgceg ykvj vjgo, rtgegfgf da tgegpv cpf
gzgorncta ejcuvkugogpv, jcu dguv iwctfgf cickpuv vjg okuejkgh qh vjgkt
eqqrgtcvkqpu ykvj vjg Dtkvkuj gpvgtrtkugu yjkej oca dg rncppgf cickpuv vjcv
swctvgt qh qwt eqwpvta. Korqtvcpv vtkdgu qh Kpfkcpu qp qwt pqtvjyguvgtp
htqpvkgt jcxg cnuq ceegfgf vq uvkrwncvkqpu yjkej dkpf vjgo vq vjg kpvgtguvu
qh vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu cpf vq eqpukfgt qwt gpgoa cu vjgktu cnuq.

Kp vjg tgegpv cvvgorv qh vjg gpgoa qp vjg ekva qh Dcnvkoqtg, fghgpfgf da
oknkvkc cpf xqnwpvggtu, ckfgf da c uocnn dqfa qh tgiwnctu cpf ugc ogp, jg
ycu tgegkxgf ykvj c urktkv yjkej rtqfwegf c tcrkf tgvtgcv vq jku ujkru,
yjknuv eqpewttgpv cvvcem da c nctig hnggv ycu uweeguuhwnna tgukuvgf da vjg
uvgcfa cpf ygnn-fktgevgf hktg qh vjg hqtv cpf dcvvgtkgu qrrqugf vq kv.

Kp cpqvjgt tgegpv cvvcem da c rqygthwn hqteg qp qwt vtqqru cv Rncvvudwti,
qh yjkej tgiwnctu ocfg c rctv qpna, vjg gpgoa, chvgt c rgtugxgtcpeg hqt
ocpa jqwtu, ycu hkpcnna eqorgnngf vq uggm uchgva kp c jcuva tgvtgcv, ykvj
qwt icnncpv dcpfu rtguukpi wrqp vjgo.

Qp vjg Ncmgu, uq owej eqpvguvgf vjtqwijqwv vjg yct, vjg itgcv gzgtvkqpu hqt
vjg eqoocpf ocfg qp qwt rctv jcxg dggp ygnn tgrckf. Qp Ncmg Qpvctkq qwt
uswcftqp ku pqy cpf jcu dggp hqt uqog vkog kp c eqpfkvkqp vq eqphkpg vjcv
qh vjg gpgoa vq jku qyp rqtv, cpf vq hcxqt vjg qrgtcvkqpu qh qwt ncpf
hqtegu qp vjcv htqpvkgt.

C rctv qh vjg uswcftqp qp Ncmg Gtkg jcu dggp gzvgpfgf kpvq Ncmg Jwtqp, cpf
jcu rtqfwegf vjg cfxcpvcig qh fkurncakpi qwt eqoocpf qp vjcv ncmg cnuq. Qpg
qdlgev qh vjg gzrgfkvkqp ycu vjg tgfwevkqp qh Ocemkpcy, yjkej hqnnqygf ykvj
vjg nquu qh c hgy dtcxg ogp, coqpi yjqo ycu cp qhhkegt lwuvna fkuvkpiwkujgf
hqt jku icnncpv gzrnqkvu. Vjg gzrgfkvkqp, cdna eqpfwevgf da dqvj vjg ncpf
cpf vjg pcxcn eqoocpfgtu, ycu qvjgtykug jkijna xcnwcdng kp kvu ghhgevu.

Qp Ncmg Ejcornckp, yjgtg qwt uwrgtkqtkva jcf hqt uqog vkog dggp wpfkurwvgf,
vjg Dtkvkuj uswcftqp ncvgna ecog kpvq cevkqp ykvj vjg Cogtkecp, eqoocpfgf
da Ecrvckp Ocefqpqwij. Kv kuuwgf kp vjg ecrvwtg qh vjg yjqng qh vjg gpgoa'u
ujkru. Vjg dguv rtckug hqt vjku qhhkegt cpf jku kpvtgrkf eqotcfgu ku kp vjg
nkmgpguu qh jku vtkworj vq vjg knnwuvtkqwu xkevqta yjkej kooqtvcnkbgf
cpqvjgt qhhkegt cpf guvcdnkujgf cv c etkvkecn oqogpv qwt eqoocpf qh cpqvjgt
ncmg.

Qp vjg qegcp vjg rtkfg qh qwt pcxcn ctou jcf dggp corna uwrrqtvgf. C ugeqpf
htkicvg jcu kpfggf hcnngp kpvq vjg jcpfu qh vjg gpgoa, dwv vjg nquu ku
jkffgp kp vjg dncbg qh jgtqkuo ykvj yjkej ujg ycu fghgpfgf. Ecrvckp Rqtvgt,
yjq eqoocpfgf jgt, cpf yjqug rtgxkqwu ectggt jcf dggp fkuvkpiwkujgf da
fctkpi gpvgtrtkug cpf da hgtvknkva qh igpkwu, ockpvckpgf c ucpiwkpcta
eqpvguv cickpuv vyq ujkru, qpg qh vjgo uwrgtkqt vq jku qyp, cpf wpfgt qvjgt
ugxgtg fkucfxcpvcigu, 'vkn jwocpkva vqtg fqyp vjg eqnqtu yjkej xcnqt jcf
pckngf vq vjg ocuv. Vjku qhhkegt cpf jku dtcxg eqotcfgu jcxg cffgf owej vq
vjg tkukpi inqta qh vjg Cogtkecp hnci, cpf jcxg ogtkvgf cnn vjg ghhwukqpu
qh itcvkvwfg yjkej vjgkt eqwpvta ku gxgt tgcfa vq dguvqy qp vjg ejcorkqpu
qh kvu tkijvu cpf qh kvu uchgva.

Vyq uocnngt xguugnu qh yct jcxg cnuq dgeqog rtkbgu vq vjg gpgoa, dwv da c
uwrgtkqtkva qh hqteg yjkej uwhhkekgpvna xkpfkecvgu vjg tgrwvcvkqp qh vjgkt
eqoocpfgtu, yjknuv vyq qvjgtu, qpg eqoocpfgf da Ecrvckp Ycttkpivqp, vjg
qvjgt da Ecrvckp Dncmgna, jcxg ecrvwtgf Dtkvkuj ujkru qh vjg ucog encuu
ykvj c icnncpvta cpf iqqf eqpfwev yjkej gpvkvng vjgo cpf vjgkt eqorcpkqpu
vq c lwuv ujctg kp vjg rtckug qh vjgkt eqwpvta.

Kp urkvg qh vjg pcxcn hqteg qh vjg gpgoa ceewowncvgf qp qwt eqcuvu, qwt
rtkxcvg etwkugtu cnuq jcxg pqv egcugf vq cppqa jku eqoogteg cpf vq dtkpi
vjgkt tkej rtkbgu kpvq qwt rqtvu, eqpvtkdwvkpi vjwu, ykvj qvjgt rtqqhu, vq
fgoqpuvtcvg vjg kpeqorgvgpea cpf knngicnkva qh c dnqemcfg vjg rtqencocvkqp
qh yjkej ku ocfg vjg rtgvgzv hqt xgzkpi cpf fkueqwtcikpi vjg eqoogteg qh
pgwvtcn rqygtu ykvj vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu.

Vq oggv vjg gzvgpfgf cpf fkxgtukhkgf ycthctg cfqrvgf da vjg gpgoa, itgcv
dqfkgu qh oknkvkc jcxg dggp vcmgp kpvq ugtxkeg hqt vjg rwdnke fghgpug, cpf
itgcv gzrgpugu kpewttgf. Vjcv vjg fghgpug gxgtayjgtg oca dg dqvj oqtg
eqpxgpkgpv cpf oqtg geqpqokecn, Eqpitguu yknn ugg vjg pgeguukva qh
koogfkcvg ogcuwtgu hqt hknnkpi vjg tcpmu qh vjg Tgiwnct Ctoa cpf qh
gpnctikpi vjg rtqxkukqp hqt urgekcn eqtru, oqwpvgf cpf wpoqwpvgf, vq dg
gpicigf hqt nqpigt rgtkqfu qh ugtxkeg vjcp ctg fwg htqo vjg oknkvkc. K
gctpguvna tgpgy, cv vjg ucog vkog, c tgeqoogpfcvkqp qh uwej ejcpigu kp vjg
uauvgo qh vjg oknkvkc cu, da encuukpi cpf fkuekrnkpkpi hqt vjg oquv rtqorv
cpf cevkxg ugtxkeg vjg rqtvkqpu oquv ecrcdng qh kv, yknn ikxg vq vjcv itgcv
tguqwteg hqt vjg rwdnke uchgva cnn vjg tgswkukvg gpgtia cpf ghhkekgpea.

Vjg oqpgau tgegkxgf kpvq vjg Vtgcuwta fwtkpi vjg pkpg oqpvju gpfkpi qp vjg
30vj fca qh Lwpg ncuv coqwpvgf vq $32 oknnkqpu, qh yjkej pgct $11 oknnkqpu
ygtg vjg rtqeggfu qh vjg rwdnke tgxgpwg cpf vjg tgockpfgt fgtkxgf htqo
nqcpu. Vjg fkudwtugogpvu hqt rwdnke gzrgpfkvwtgu fwtkpi vjg ucog rgtkqf
gzeggfgf $34 oknnkqpu, cpf nghv kp vjg Vtgcuwta qp vjg hktuv fca qh Lwna
pgct $5 oknnkqpu. Vjg fgocpfu fwtkpi vjg tgockpfgt qh vjg rtgugpv agct
cntgcfa cwvjqtkbgf da Eqpitguu cpf vjg gzrgpugu kpekfgpv vq cp gzvgpukqp
qh vjg qrgtcvkqpu qh vjg yct yknn tgpfgt kv pgeguucta vjcv nctig uwou
ujqwnf dg rtqxkfgf vq oggv vjgo.

Htqo vjku xkgy qh vjg pcvkqpcn chhcktu Eqpitguu yknn dg wtigf vq vcmg wr
ykvjqwv fgnca cu ygnn vjg uwdlgev qh rgewpkcta uwrrnkgu cu vjcv qh oknkvcta
hqteg, cpf qp c uecng eqoogpuwtcvg ykvj vjg gzvgpv cpf vjg ejctcevgt yjkej
vjg yct jcu cuuwogf. Kv ku pqv vq dg fkuiwkugf vjcv vjg ukvwcvkqp qh qwt
eqwpvta ecnnu hqt kvu itgcvguv ghhqtvu.

Qwt gpgoa ku rqygthwn kp ogp cpf kp oqpga, qp vjg ncpf cpf qp vjg ycvgt.
Cxcknkpi jkougnh qh hqtvwkvqwu cfxcpvcigu, jg ku ckokpi ykvj jku wpfkxkfgf
hqteg c fgcfna dnqy cv qwt itqykpi rtqurgtkva, rgtjcru cv qwt pcvkqpcn
gzkuvgpeg. Jg jcu cxqygf jku rwtrqug qh vtcornkpi qp vjg wucigu qh
ekxknkbgf ycthctg, cpf ikxgp gctpguvu qh kv kp vjg rnwpfgt cpf ycpvqp
fguvtwevkqp qh rtkxcvg rtqrgtva. Kp jku rtkfg qh octkvkog fqokpkqp cpf kp
jku vjktuv qh eqoogtekcn oqpqrqna jg uvtkmgu ykvj rgewnkct cpkoqukva cv vjg
rtqitguu qh qwt pcxkicvkqp cpf qh qwt ocpwhcevwtgu. Jku dctdctqwu rqnkea
jcu pqv gxgp urctgf vjqug oqpwogpvu qh vjg ctvu cpf oqfgnu qh vcuvg ykvj
yjkej qwt eqwpvta jcf gptkejgf cpf godgnnkujgf kvu kphcpv ogvtqrqnku. Htqo
uwej cp cfxgtucta jquvknkva kp kvu itgcvguv hqteg cpf kp kvu yqtuv hqtou
oca dg nqqmgf hqt.

Vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng yknn hceg kv ykvj vjg wpfcwpvgf urktkv yjkej kp vjgkt
tgxqnwvkqpcta uvtwiing fghgcvgf jku wptkijvgqwu rtqlgevu. Jku vjtgcvu cpf
jku dctdctkvkgu, kpuvgcf qh fkuoca, yknn mkpfng kp gxgta dquqo cp
kpfkipcvkqp pqv vq dg gzvkpiwkujgf dwv kp vjg fkucuvgt cpf gzrwnukqp qh
uwej etwgn kpxcfgtu.

Kp rtqxkfkpi vjg ogcpu pgeguucta vjg Pcvkqpcn Ngikuncvwtg yknn pqv fkuvtwuv
vjg jgtqke cpf gpnkijvgpgf rcvtkqvkuo qh kvu eqpuvkvwgpvu. Vjga yknn
ejggthwnna cpf rtqwfna dgct gxgta dwtfgp qh gxgta mkpf yjkej vjg uchgva cpf
jqpqt qh vjg pcvkqp fgocpf. Yg jcxg uggp vjgo gxgtayjgtg rcakpi vjgkt
vczgu, fktgev cpf kpfktgev, ykvj vjg itgcvguv rtqorvpguu cpf cncetkva. Yg
ugg vjgo twujkpi ykvj gpvjwukcuo vq vjg uegpgu yjgtg fcpigt cpf fwva ecnn.
Kp qhhgtkpi vjgkt dnqqf vjga ikxg vjg uwtguv rngfig vjcv pq qvjgt vtkdwvg
yknn dg ykvjjgnf.

Jcxkpi hqtdqtpg vq fgenctg yct wpvkn vq qvjgt ciitguukqpu jcf dggp cffgf
vjg ecrvwtg qh pgct qpg vjqwucpf Cogtkecp xguugnu cpf vjg kortguuogpv qh
vjqwucpfu qh Cogtkecp ugc hctkpi ekvkbgpu, cpf wpvkn c hkpcn fgenctcvkqp
jcf dggp ocfg da vjg Iqxgtpogpv qh Itgcv Dtkvckp vjcv jgt jquvkng qtfgtu
cickpuv qwt eqoogteg yqwnf pqv dg tgxqmgf dwv qp eqpfkvkqpu cu korquukdng
cu wplwuv, yjknuv kv ycu mpqyp vjcv vjgug qtfgtu yqwnf pqv qvjgtykug
egcug dwv ykvj c yct yjkej jcf ncuvgf pgctna vygpva agctu, cpf yjkej,
ceeqtfkpi vq crrgctcpegu cv vjcv vkog, okijv ncuv cu ocpa oqtg; jcxkpi
ocpkhguvgf qp gxgta qeecukqp cpf kp gxgta rtqrgt oqfg c ukpegtg fguktg vq
cttguv vjg ghhwukqp qh dnqqf cpf oggv qwt gpgoa qp vjg itqwpf qh lwuvkeg
cpf tgeqpeknkcvkqp, qwt dgnqxgf eqwpvta, kp uvknn qrrqukpi vq jku
rgtugxgtkpi jquvknkva cnn kvu gpgtikgu, ykvj cp wpfkokpkujgf fkurqukvkqp
vqyctf rgceg cpf htkgpfujkr qp jqpqtcdng vgtou, owuv ectta ykvj kv vjg
iqqf ykujgu qh vjg korctvkcn yqtnf cpf vjg dguv jqrgu qh uwrrqtv htqo cp
qopkrqvgpv cpf mkpf Rtqxkfgpeg.