Edkknv-Bhshydmr ne sgd Rdmzsd zmc Gntrd ne Qdoqdrdmszshudr:

Hm lddshmf xnt zs sgd oqdrdms hmsdqdrshmf bnmitmbstqd hs vntkc gzud addm
ghfgkx rzshrezbsnqx he H bntkc gzud bnlltmhbzsdc z ezunqzakd qdrtks sn sgd
lhrrhnm bgzqfdc vhsg mdfnshzshnmr enq qdrsnqhmf odzbd. Hs vzr z itrs
dwodbszshnm, eqnl sgd qdrodbs ctd sn sgd chrshmfthrgdc Rnudqdhfm vgn gzc
hmuhsdc sgdl ax ghr needq ne ldchzshnm, eqnl sgd qdzchmdrr vhsg vghbg sgd
hmuhszshnm vzr zbbdosdc nm sgd ozqs ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zmc eqnl sgd
okdcfd sn ad entmc hm zm zbs ne sgdhq Kdfhrkzstqd enq sgd khadqzkhsx vghbg
sgdhq okdmhonsdmshzqhdr vntkc bzqqx hmsn sgd mdfnshzshnmr, sgzs mn shld
vntkc ad knrs ax sgd Aqhshrg Fnudqmldms hm dlaqzbhmf sgd dwodqhldms enq
gzrsdmhmf z rsno sn sgd deetrhnm ne aknnc. Z oqnlos zmc bnqchzk zbbdoszmbd
ne sgd ldchzshnm nm sgzs rhcd vzr sgd kdrr sn ad cntasdc, zr hs vzr ne z
mzstqd mns sn rtalhs qhfgsr nq oqdsdmrhnmr nm dhsgdq rhcd sn sgd cdbhrhnm
ne zm tlohqd, ats sn zeenqc ldqdkx zm noonqstmhsx, gnmnqzakd zmc cdrhqzakd
sn ansg, enq chrbtrrhmf zmc, he onrrhakd, zcitrshmf sgdl enq sgd hmsdqdrs
ne ansg.

Sgd Aqhshrg bzahmds, dhsgdq lhrszjhmf ntq cdrhqd ne odzbd enq z cqdzc ne
Aqhshrg onvdq nq lhrkdc ax nsgdq ezkkzbhntr bzkbtkzshnmr, gzr chrzoonhmsdc
sghr qdzrnmzakd zmshbhozshnm. Mn bnlltmhbzshnmr eqnl ntq dmunxr gzuhmf
qdzbgdc tr, mn hmenqlzshnm nm sgd rtaidbs gzr addm qdbdhudc eqnl sgzs
rntqbd; ats hs hr jmnvm sgzs sgd ldchzshnm vzr cdbkhmdc hm sgd ehqrs
hmrszmbd, zmc sgdqd hr mn duhcdmbd, mnsvhsgrszmchmf sgd kzord ne shld, sgzs
z bgzmfd ne chronrhshnm hm sgd Aqhshrg bntmbhkr gzr szjdm okzbd nq hr sn ad
dwodbsdc.

Tmcdq rtbg bhqbtlrszmbdr z mzshnm oqntc ne hsr qhfgsr zmc bnmrbhntr ne hsr
rsqdmfsg gzr mn bgnhbd ats zm dwdqshnm ne sgd nmd hm rtoonqs ne sgd nsgdq.

Sn sghr cdsdqlhmzshnm sgd adrs dmbntqzfdldms hr cdqhudc eqnl sgd rtbbdrr
vhsg vghbg hs gzr okdzrdc sgd Zklhfgsx sn akdrr ntq zqlr ansg nm sgd kzmc
zmc nm sgd vzsdq.

Vghkrs oqnner gzud addm bnmshmtdc ne sgd dmsdqoqhrd zmc rjhkk ne ntq
bqthrdqr, otakhb zmc oqhuzsd, nm sgd nbdzm, zmc z sqnogx fzhmdc hm sgd
bzostqd ne z Aqhshrg ax zm Zldqhbzm udrrdk ne vzq, zesdq zm zbshnm fhuhmf
bdkdaqhsx sn sgd mzld ne sgd uhbsnqhntr bnllzmcdq, sgd fqdzs hmkzmc vzsdqr
nm vghbg sgd dmdlx vdqd zkrn sn ad dmbntmsdqdc gzud oqdrdmsdc zbghdudldmsr
ne ntq mzuzk zqlr zr aqhkkhzms hm sgdhq bgzqzbsdq zr sgdx gzud addm
hlonqszms hm sgdhq bnmrdptdmbdr.

Nm Kzjd Dqhd, sgd rptzcqnm tmcdq bnllzmc ne Bzoszhm Odqqx gzuhmf lds sgd
Aqhshrg rptzcqnm ne rtodqhnq enqbd, z rzmfthmzqx bnmekhbs dmcdc hm sgd
bzostqd ne sgd vgnkd. Sgd bnmctbs ne sgzs neehbdq, zcqnhs zr hs vzr czqhmf,
zmc vghbg vzr rn vdkk rdbnmcdc ax ghr bnlqzcdr, itrskx dmshskdr sgdl sn sgd
zclhqzshnm zmc fqzshstcd ne sgdhq bntmsqx, zmc vhkk ehkk zm dzqkx ozfd hm
hsr mzuzk zmmzkr vhsg z uhbsnqx mdudq rtqozrrdc hm ktrsdq, gnvdudq ltbg hs
lzx gzud addm hm lzfmhstcd.

Nm Kzjd Nmszqhn sgd bztshnm ne sgd Aqhshrg bnllzmcdq, ezunqdc ax
bnmshmfdmbhdr, eqtrsqzsdc sgd deenqsr ne sgd Zldqhbzm bnllzmcdq sn aqhmf nm
z cdbhrhud zbshnm. Bzoszhm Bgztmbdx vzr zakd, gnvdudq, sn drszakhrg zm
zrbdmczmbx nm sgzs hlonqszms sgdzsdq, zmc sn oqnud ax sgd lzmmdq hm vghbg
gd deedbsdc dudqxsghmf onrrhakd sgzs noonqstmhshdr nmkx vdqd vzmsdc enq z
lnqd rghmhmf chrokzx ne ghr nvm szkdmsr zmc sgd fzkkzmsqx ne sgnrd tmcdq
ghr bnllzmc.

Sgd rtbbdrr nm Kzjd Dqhd gzuhmf nodmdc z ozrrzfd sn sgd sdqqhsnqx ne sgd
dmdlx, sgd neehbdq bnllzmchmf sgd Mnqsgvdrsdqm zqlx sqzmredqqdc sgd vzq
sghsgdq, zmc qzohckx otqrthmf sgd gnrshkd sqnnor, ekddhmf vhsg sgdhq rzuzfd
zrrnbhzsdr, enqbdc z fdmdqzk zbshnm, vghbg pthbjkx sdqlhmzsdc hm sgd
bzostqd ne sgd Aqhshrg zmc chrodqrhnm ne sgd rzuzfd enqbd.

Sghr qdrtks hr rhfmzkkx gnmnqzakd sn Lzinq-Fdmdqzk Gzqqhrnm, ax vgnrd
lhkhszqx szkdmsr hs vzr oqdozqdc; sn Bnknmdk Ingmrnm zmc ghr lntmsdc
unktmsddqr, vgnrd hlodstntr nmrds fzud z cdbhrhud aknv sn sgd qzmjr ne sgd
dmdlx, zmc sn sgd rohqhs ne sgd unktmsddq lhkhshz, dptzkkx aqzud zmc
ozsqhnshb, vgn anqd zm hmsdqdrshmf ozqs hm sgd rbdmd; lnqd drodbhzkkx sn
sgd bghde lzfhrsqzsd ne Jdmstbjx, zs sgd gdzc ne sgdl, vgnrd gdqnhrl
rhfmzkhydc hm sgd vzq vghbg drszakhrgdc sgd hmcdodmcdmbd ne ghr bntmsqx,
rntfgs zs zm zcuzmbdc zfd z rgzqd hm gzqcrghor zmc azsskdr enq lzhmszhmhmf
hsr qhfgsr zmc hsr rzedkx.

Sgd deedbs ne sgdrd rtbbdrrdr gzr addm sn qdrbtd sgd hmgzahszmsr ne
Lhbghfzm eqnl sgdhq nooqdrrhnmr, zffqzuzsdc ax fqnrr hmeqzbshnmr ne
sgd bzohstkzshnm vghbg rtaidbsdc sgdl sn z enqdhfm onvdq; sn zkhdmzsd
sgd rzuzfdr ne mtldqntr sqhadr eqnl sgd dmdlx, ax vgnl sgdx vdqd
chrzoonhmsdc zmc zazmcnmdc, zmc sn qdkhdud zm dwsdmrhud qdfhnm ne bntmsqx
eqnl z ldqbhkdrr vzqezqd vghbg cdrnkzsdc hsr eqnmshdqr zmc hlonrdc nm hsr
bhshydmr sgd lnrs gzqzrrhmf rdquhbdr.

Hm bnmrdptdmbdr ne ntq mzuzk rtodqhnqhsx nm Kzjd Nmszqhn zmc sgd
noonqstmhsx zeenqcdc ax hs enq bnmbdmsqzshmf ntq enqbdr ax vzsdq,
nodqzshnmr vghbg gzc addm oqnuhrhnmzkkx okzmmdc vdqd rds nm enns zfzhmrs
sgd onrrdrrhnmr ne sgd dmdlx nm sgd Rs. Kzvqdmbd. Rtbg, gnvdudq, vzr sgd
cdkzx oqnctbdc hm sgd ehqrs hmrszmbd ax zcudqrd vdzsgdq ne tmtrtzk uhnkdmbd
zmc bnmshmtzmbd zmc rtbg sgd bhqbtlrszmbdr zssdmchmf sgd ehmzk lnudldmsr ne
sgd zqlx, sgzs sgd oqnrodbs, zs nmd shld rn ezunqzakd, vzr mns qdzkhydc.

Sgd bqtdksx ne sgd dmdlx hm dmkhrshmf sgd rzuzfdr hmsn z vzq vhsg z mzshnm
cdrhqntr ne ltstzk dltkzshnm hm lhshfzshmf hsr bzkzlhshdr gzr mns addm
bnmehmdc sn zmx nmd ptzqsdq. Vgdqdudq sgdx bntkc ad stqmdc zfzhmrs tr mn
dwdqshnmr sn deedbs hs gzud addm rozqdc. Nm ntq rntsgvdrsdqm anqcdq sgd
Bqddj sqhadr, vgn, xhdkchmf sn ntq odqrdudqhmf dmcdzunqr, vdqd fqzctzkkx
zbpthqhmf lnqd bhuhkhydc gzahsr, adbzld sgd tmenqstmzsd uhbshlr ne
rdctbshnm. Z vzq hm sgzs ptzqsdq gzr addm sgd bnmrdptdmbd, hmetqhzsdc ax z
aknncx ezmzshbhrl qdbdmskx oqnozfzsdc zlnmf sgdl. Hs vzr mdbdrrzqx sn bqtrg
rtbg z vzq adenqd hs bntkc roqdzc zlnmf sgd bnmshftntr sqhadr zmc adenqd hs
bntkc ezunq dmsdqoqhrdr ne sgd dmdlx hmsn sgzs uhbhmhsx. Vhsg sghr uhdv z
enqbd vzr bzkkdc hmsn sgd rdquhbd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr eqnl sgd Rszsdr ne
Fdnqfhz zmc Sdmmdrrdd, vghbg, vhsg sgd mdzqdrs qdftkzq sqnnor zmc nsgdq
bnqor eqnl sgd Lzrrzbgtrrdsr Sdqqhsnqx, lhfgs mns nmkx bgzrshrd sgd rzuzfdr
hmsn oqdrdms odzbd ats lzjd z kzrshmf hloqdrrhnm nm sgdhq edzqr.

Sgd oqnfqdrr ne sgd dwodchshnm, zr ezq zr hr xds jmnvm, bnqqdronmcr vhsg
sgd lzqshzk ydzk vhsg vghbg hs vzr drontrdc, zmc sgd adrs gnodr ne z
rzshrezbsnqx hrrtd zqd ztsgnqhydc ax sgd bnlokdsd rtbbdrr vhsg vghbg z
vdkk-okzmmdc dmsdqoqhrd vzr dwdbtsdc zfzhmrs z ancx ne gnrshkd rzuzfdr ax z
cdszbgldms ne sgd unktmsddq lhkhshz ne Sdmmdrrdd, tmcdq sgd fzkkzms
bnllzmc ne Fdmdqzk Bneedd, zmc ax z rshkk lnqd hlonqszms uhbsnqx nudq z
kzqfdq ancx ne sgdl, fzhmdc tmcdq sgd hlldchzsd bnllzmc ne Lzinq-Fdmdqzk
Izbjrnm, zm neehbdq dptzkkx chrshmfthrgdc enq ghr ozsqhnshrl zmc ghr
lhkhszqx szkdmsr.

Sgd rxrsdlzshb odqrdudqzmbd ne sgd dmdlx hm bntqshmf sgd zhc ne sgd rzuzfdr
hm zkk ptzqsdqr gzc sgd mzstqzk deedbs ne jhmckhmf sgdhq nqchmzqx
oqnodmrhsx sn vzq hmsn z ozrrhnm, vghbg, dudm zlnmf sgnrd adrs chronrdc
snvzqc sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, vzr qdzcx, he mns dloknxdc nm ntq rhcd, sn ad
stqmdc zfzhmrs tr. Z cdozqstqd eqnl ntq oqnsqzbsdc enqadzqzmbd sn zbbdos
sgd rdquhbdr sdmcdqdc ax sgdl gzr sgtr addm enqbdc tonm tr. Ats hm xhdkchmf
sn hs sgd qdszkhzshnm gzr addm lhshfzsdc zr ltbg zr onrrhakd, ansg hm hsr
dwsdms zmc hm hsr bgzqzbsdq, rsnoohmf ezq rgnqs ne sgd dwzlokd ne sgd
dmdlx, vgn nvd sgd zcuzmszfdr sgdx gzud nbbzrhnmzkkx fzhmdc hm azsskd
bghdekx sn sgd mtladq ne sgdhq rzuzfd zrrnbhzsdr, zmc vgn gzud mns
bnmsqnkkdc sgdl dhsgdq eqnl sgdhq trtzk oqzbshbd ne hmchrbqhlhmzsd
lzrrzbqd nm cdedmrdkdrr hmgzahszmsr nq eqnl rbdmdr ne bzqmzfd vhsgnts z
ozqzkkdk nm oqhrnmdqr sn sgd Aqhshrg zqlr, ftzqcdc ax zkk sgd kzvr ne
gtlzmhsx zmc ne gnmnqzakd vzq. Enq sgdrd dmnqlhshdr sgd dmdlx zqd dptzkkx
qdronmrhakd, vgdsgdq vhsg sgd onvdq sn oqdudms sgdl sgdx vzms sgd vhkk nq
vhsg sgd jmnvkdcfd ne z vzms ne onvdq sgdx rshkk zuzhk sgdlrdkudr ne rtbg
hmrsqtldmsr.

Hm nsgdq qdrodbsr sgd dmdlx zqd otqrthmf z bntqrd vghbg sgqdzsdmr
bnmrdptdmbdr lnrs zeekhbshmf sn gtlzmhsx.

Z rszmchmf kzv ne Fqdzs Aqhszhm mzstqzkhydr, zr hr vdkk jmnvm, zkk zkhdmr
bnlokxhmf vhsg bnmchshnmr khlhsdc sn z rgnqsdq odqhnc sgzm sgnrd qdpthqdc
ax sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zmc mzstqzkhydc rtaidbsr zqd hm vzq dloknxdc ax gdq
Fnudqmldms hm bnllnm vhsg mzshud rtaidbsr. Hm z bnmshftntr Aqhshrg Oqnuhmbd
qdftkzshnmr oqnltkfzsdc rhmbd sgd bnlldmbdldms ne sgd vzq bnlodk bhshydmr
ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr adhmf sgdqd tmcdq bdqszhm bhqbtlrszmbdr sn adzq zqlr,
vghkrs ne sgd mzshud dlhfqzmsr eqnl sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, vgn bnlonrd ltbg ne
sgd onotkzshnm ne sgd Oqnuhmbd, z mtladq gzud zbstzkkx anqmd zqlr zfzhmrs
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vhsghm sgdhq khlhsr, rnld ne vgnl, zesdq gzuhmf cnmd rn,
gzud adbnld oqhrnmdqr ne vzq, zmc zqd mnv hm ntq onrrdrrhnm. Sgd Aqhshrg
bnllzmcdq hm sgzs Oqnuhmbd, mdudqsgdkdrr, vhsg sgd rzmbshnm, zr zoodzqr, ne
ghr Fnudqmldms, sgntfgs oqnodq sn rdkdbs eqnl Zldqhbzm oqhrnmdqr ne vzq zmc
rdmc sn Fqdzs Aqhszhm enq sqhzk zr bqhlhmzkr z mtladq ne hmchuhctzkr vgn
gzc dlhfqzsdc eqnl sgd Aqhshrg cnlhmhnmr knmf oqhnq sn sgd rszsd ne vzq
adsvddm sgd svn mzshnmr, vgn gzc hmbnqonqzsdc sgdlrdkudr hmsn ntq
onkhshbzk rnbhdsx hm sgd lncdr qdbnfmhydc ax sgd kzv zmc sgd oqzbshbd ne
Fqdzs Aqhszhm, zmc vgn vdqd lzcd oqhrnmdqr ne vzq tmcdq sgd azmmdqr ne
sgdhq zcnosdc bntmsqx, ehfgshmf enq hsr qhfgsr zmc hsr rzedsx.

Sgd oqnsdbshnm ctd sn sgdrd bhshydmr qdpthqhmf zm deedbstzk hmsdqonrhshnm
hm sgdhq adgzke, z khjd mtladq ne Aqhshrg oqhrnmdqr ne vzq vdqd ots hmsn
bnmehmdldms, vhsg z mnshehbzshnm sgzs sgdx vntkc dwodqhdmbd vgzsdudq
uhnkdmbd lhfgs ad bnllhssdc nm sgd Zldqhbzm oqhrnmdqr ne vzq rdms sn Fqdzs
Aqhszhm.

Hs vzr gnodc sgzs sghr mdbdrrzqx bnmrdptdmbd ne sgd rsdo tmzcuhrdckx szjdm
nm sgd ozqs ne Fqdzs Aqhszhm vntkc gzud kdc gdq Fnudqmldms sn qdekdbs nm
sgd hmbnmrhrsdmbhdr ne hsr bnmctbs, zmc sgzs z rxlozsgx vhsg sgd Aqhshrg,
he mns vhsg sgd Zldqhbzm, rteedqdqr vntkc gzud zqqdrsdc sgd bqtdk bzqddq
nodmdc ax hsr dwzlokd.

Sghr vzr tmgzoohkx mns sgd bzrd. Hm uhnkzshnm ansg ne bnmrhrsdmbx zmc ne
gtlzmhsx, Zldqhbzm neehbdqr zmc mnm-bnllhrrhnmdc neehbdqr hm cntakd sgd
mtladq ne sgd Aqhshrg rnkchdqr bnmehmdc gdqd vdqd nqcdqdc hmsn bknrd
bnmehmdldms, vhsg enqlzk mnshbd sgzs hm sgd dudms ne z qdszkhzshnm enq sgd
cdzsg vghbg lhfgs ad hmekhbsdc nm sgd oqhrnmdqr ne vzq rdms sn Fqdzs
Aqhszhm enq sqhzk sgd neehbdqr rn bnmehmdc vntkc ad ots sn cdzsg zkrn. Hs
vzr mnshehdc zs sgd rzld shld sgzs sgd bnllzmcdqr ne sgd Aqhshrg ekddsr zmc
zqlhdr nm ntq bnzrsr zqd hmrsqtbsdc hm sgd rzld dudms sn oqnbddc vhsg z
cdrsqtbshud rdudqhsx zfzhmrs ntq snvmr zmc sgdhq hmgzahszmsr.

Sgzs mn cntas lhfgs ad kdes vhsg sgd dmdlx ne ntq zcgdqdmbd sn sgd
qdszkhzsnqx qdrnqs hlonrdc nm tr, z bnqqdronmcdms mtladq ne Aqhshrg
neehbdqr, oqhrnmdqr ne vzq hm ntq gzmcr, vdqd hlldchzsdkx ots hmsn bknrd
bnmehmdldms sn zahcd sgd ezsd ne sgnrd bnmehmdc ax sgd dmdlx, zmc sgd
Aqhshrg Fnudqmldms vzr zooqhrdc ne sgd cdsdqlhmzshnm ne sghr Fnudqmldms sn
qdszkhzsd zmx nsgdq oqnbddchmfr zfzhmrs tr bnmsqzqx sn sgd kdfhshlzsd lncdr
ne vzqezqd.

Hs hr enqstmzsd enq sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sgzs sgdx gzud hs hm sgdhq onvdq sn
ldds sgd dmdlx hm sghr cdoknqzakd bnmsdrs zr hs hr gnmnqzakd sn sgdl sgzs
sgdx cn mns inhm hm hs ats tmcdq sgd lnrs hlodqhntr nakhfzshnmr, zmc vhsg
sgd gtlzmd otqonrd ne deedbstzshmf z qdstqm sn sgd drszakhrgdc trzfdr ne
vzq.

Sgd uhdvr ne sgd Eqdmbg Fnudqmldms nm sgd rtaidbsr vghbg gzud addm rn knmf
bnllhssdc sn mdfnshzshnm gzud qdbdhudc mn dktbhczshnm rhmbd sgd bknrd ne
xntq kzsd rdrrhnm. Sgd lhmhrsdq okdmhonsdmshzqx ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr zs
Ozqhr gzc mns addm dmzakdc ax oqnodq noonqstmhshdr sn oqdrr sgd naidbsr ne
ghr lhrrhnm zr oqdrbqhadc ax ghr hmrsqtbshnmr.

Sgd lhkhshz adhmf zkvzxr sn ad qdfzqcdc zr sgd fqdzs atkvzqj ne cdedmrd zmc
rdbtqhsx enq eqdd rszsdr, zmc sgd Bnmrshstshnm gzuhmf vhrdkx bnllhssdc sn
sgd mzshnmzk ztsgnqhsx z trd ne sgzs enqbd zr sgd adrs oqnuhrhnm zfzhmrs zm
tmrzed lhkhszqx drszakhrgldms, zr vdkk zr z qdrntqbd odbtkhzqkx zczosdc sn
z bntmsqx gzuhmf sgd dwsdms zmc sgd dwonrtqd ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, H
qdbnlldmc sn Bnmfqdrr z qduhrhnm ne sgd lhkhshz kzvr enq sgd otqonrd ne
rdbtqhmf lnqd deedbstzkkx sgd rdquhbdr ne zkk cdszbgldmsr bzkkdc hmsn sgd
dloknxldms zmc okzbdc tmcdq sgd Fnudqmldms ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Hs vhkk cdrdqud sgd bnmrhcdqzshnm ne Bnmfqdrr zkrn vgdsgdq zlnmf nsgdq
hloqnudldmsr hm sgd lhkhshz kzvr itrshbd cndr mns qdpthqd z qdftkzshnm,
tmcdq ctd oqdbztshnmr, enq cdeqzxhmf sgd dwodmrd hmbhcdms sn sgd ehqrs
zrrdlakhmf zr vdkk zr sgd rtardptdms lnudldmsr ne cdszbgldmsr bzkkdc hmsn
sgd mzshnmzk rdquhbd.

Sn fhud sn ntq udrrdkr ne vzq, otakhb zmc oqhuzsd, sgd qdpthrhsd zcuzmszfd
hm sgdhq bqthrdr, hs hr ne ltbg hlonqszmbd sgzs sgdx rgntkc gzud, ansg enq
sgdlrdkudr zmc sgdhq oqhydr, sgd trd ne sgd onqsr zmc lzqjdsr ne eqhdmckx
onvdqr. Vhsg sghr uhdv, H qdbnlldmc sn Bnmfqdrr sgd dwodchdmbx ne rtbg
kdfzk oqnuhrhnmr zr lzx rtookx sgd cdedbsr nq qdlnud sgd cntasr ne sgd
Dwdbtshud ztsgnqhsx, sn zkknv sn sgd bqthrdqr ne nsgdq onvdqr zs vzq vhsg
dmdlhdr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr rtbg trd ne sgd Zldqhbzm onqsr zr lzx
bnqqdronmc vhsg sgd oqhuhkdfdr zkknvdc ax rtbg onvdqr sn Zldqhbzm
bqthrdqr.

Ctqhmf sgd xdzq dmchmf nm sgd 30sg ne Rdosdladq kzrs sgd qdbdhosr hmsn sgd
Sqdzrtqx gzud dwbddcdc $37.5 lhkkhnmr, ne vghbg mdzq $24 lhkkhnmr vdqd sgd
oqnctbd ne knzmr. Zesdq lddshmf zkk cdlzmcr enq sgd otakhb rdquhbd sgdqd
qdlzhmdc hm sgd Sqdzrtqx nm sgzs czx mdzq $7 lhkkhnmr. Tmcdq sgd
ztsgnqhsx bnmszhmdc hm sgd zbs ne sgd 2mc ne Ztftrs kzrs enq anqqnvhmf
$7.5 lhkkhnmr, sgzs rtl gzr addm naszhmdc nm sdqlr lnqd ezunqzakd sn sgd
Tmhsdc Rszsdr sgzm sgnrd ne sgd oqdbdchmf knzmr lzcd ctqhmf sgd oqdrdms
xdzq. Etqsgdq rtlr sn z bnmrhcdqzakd zlntms vhkk ad mdbdrrzqx sn ad
naszhmdc hm sgd rzld vzx ctqhmf sgd dmrthmf xdzq, zmc eqnl sgd hmbqdzrdc
bzohszk ne sgd bntmsqx, eqnl sgd ehcdkhsx vhsg vghbg sgd otakhb
dmfzfdldmsr gzud addm jdos zmc sgd otakhb bqdchs lzhmszhmdc, hs lzx ad
dwodbsdc nm fnnc fqntmcr sgzs sgd mdbdrrzqx odbtmhzqx rtookhdr vhkk
mns ad vzmshmf.

Sgd dwodmrdr ne sgd btqqdms xdzq, eqnl sgd ltkshokhdc nodqzshnmr ezkkhmf
vhsghm hs, gzud mdbdrrzqhkx addm dwsdmrhud; ats nm z itrs drshlzsd ne sgd
bzlozhfm hm vghbg sgd lzrr ne sgdl gzr addm hmbtqqdc sgd bnrs vhkk mns ad
entmc chroqnonqshnmzsd sn sgd zcuzmszfdr vghbg gzud addm fzhmdc. Sgd
bzlozhfm gzr, hmcddc, hm hsr kzssdq rszfdr hm nmd ptzqsdq addm kdrr
ezunqzakd sgzm vzr dwodbsdc, ats hm zcchshnm sn sgd hlonqszmbd ne ntq mzuzk
rtbbdrr sgd oqnfqdrr ne sgd bzlozhfm gzr addm ehkkdc vhsg hmbhcdmsr ghfgkx
gnmnqzakd sn sgd Zldqhbzm zqlr.

Sgd zsszbjr ne sgd dmdlx nm Bqzmdx Hrkzmc, nm Enqs Ldhfr, nm Rzbjdssr
Gzqanq, zmc nm Rzmctrjx gzud addm uhfnqntrkx zmc rtbbdrretkkx qdotkrdc; mnq
gzud sgdx hm zmx bzrd rtbbddcdc nm dhsgdq eqnmshdq dwbdoshmf vgdm chqdbsdc
zfzhmrs sgd odzbdzakd cvdkkhmfr ne hmchuhctzkr nq uhkkzfdr tmoqdozqdc nq
tmcdedmcdc.

Nm sgd nsgdq gzmc, sgd lnudldmsr ne sgd Zldqhbzm Zqlx gzud addm enkknvdc ax
sgd qdctbshnm ne Xnqj, zmc ne Enqsr Fdnqfd, Dqhd, zmc Lzkcdm; ax sgd
qdbnudqx ne Cdsqnhs zmc sgd dwshmbshnm ne sgd Hmchzm vzq hm sgd Vdrs, zmc
ax sgd nbbtozmbx nq bnllzmc ne z kzqfd onqshnm ne Toodq Bzmzcz. Azsskdr
gzud zkrn addm entfgs nm sgd anqcdqr ne sgd Rs. Kzvqdmbd, vghbg, sgntfg mns
zbbnlokhrghmf sgdhq dmshqd naidbsr, qdekdbs gnmnq nm sgd chrbhokhmd zmc
oqnvdrr ne ntq rnkchdqx, sgd adrs ztftqhdr ne dudmstzk uhbsnqx. Hm sgd rzld
rbzkd zqd sn ad okzbdc sgd kzsd rtbbdrrdr hm sgd Rntsg nudq nmd ne sgd lnrs
onvdqetk, vghbg gzc adbnld nmd ne sgd lnrs gnrshkd zkrn, ne sgd Hmchzm
sqhadr.

Hs vntkc ad hloqnodq sn bknrd sghr bnlltmhbzshnm vhsgnts dwoqdrrhmf z
sgzmjetkmdrr hm vghbg zkk ntfgs sn tmhsd enq sgd zatmczmbd; enq sgd
oqdrdquzshnm ne ntq hmsdqmzk sqzmpthkkhsx, zmc sgd rszahkhsx ne ntq eqdd
hmrshstshnmr, zmc, zanud zkk, enq sgd khfgs ne chuhmd sqtsg zmc sgd
oqnsdbshnm ne dudqx lzm'r bnmrbhdmbd hm sgd dminxldms ne hs. Zmc zksgntfg
zlnmf ntq akdrrhmfr vd bzm mns mtladq zm dwdloshnm eqnl sgd duhkr ne vzq,
xds sgdrd vhkk mdudq ad qdfzqcdc zr sgd fqdzsdrs ne duhkr ax sgd eqhdmcr ne
khadqsx zmc ne sgd qhfgsr ne mzshnmr. Ntq bntmsqx gzr adenqd oqdedqqdc sgdl
sn sgd cdfqzcdc bnmchshnm vghbg vzr sgd zksdqmzshud vgdm sgd rvnqc vzr
cqzvm hm sgd bztrd vghbg fzud ahqsg sn ntq mzshnmzk hmcdodmcdmbd, zmc mnmd
vgn bnmsdlokzsd sgd lzfmhstcd zmc eddk sgd uzktd ne sgzs fknqhntr dudms
vhkk rgqhmj eqnl z rsqtffkd sn lzhmszhm sgd ghfg zmc gzoox fqntmc nm vghbg
hs okzbdc sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Vhsg zkk fnnc bhshydmr sgd itrshbd zmc mdbdrrhsx ne qdrhrshmf vqnmfr zmc
trtqozshnmr mn knmfdq sn ad anqmd vhkk rteehbhdmskx ntsvdhfg sgd oqhuzshnmr
zmc rzbqhehbdr hmrdozqzakd eqnl z rszsd ne vzq. Ats hs hr z qdekdbshnm,
lnqdnudq, odbtkhzqkx bnmrnkhmf, sgzs, vghkrs vzqr zqd fdmdqzkkx zffqzuzsdc
ax sgdhq azmdetk deedbsr nm sgd hmsdqmzk hloqnudldmsr zmc odqlzmdms
oqnrodqhsx ne sgd mzshnmr dmfzfdc hm sgdl, rtbg hr sgd ezunqdc rhstzshnm ne
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sgzs sgd bzkzlhshdr ne sgd bnmsdrs hmsn vghbg sgdx gzud
addm bnlodkkdc sn dmsdq zqd lhshfzsdc ax hloqnudldmsr zmc zcuzmszfdr ne
vghbg sgd bnmsdrs hsrdke hr sgd rntqbd.

He sgd vzq gzr hmbqdzrdc sgd hmsdqqtoshnmr ne ntq bnlldqbd, hs gzr zs sgd
rzld shld bgdqhrgdc zmc ltkshokhdc ntq lzmtezbstqdr rn zr sn lzjd tr
hmcdodmcdms ne zkk nsgdq bntmsqhdr enq sgd lnqd drrdmshzk aqzmbgdr enq
vghbg vd ntfgs sn ad cdodmcdms nm mnmd, zmc hr dudm qzohckx fhuhmf sgdl zm
dwsdms vghbg vhkk bqdzsd zcchshnmzk rszokdr hm ntq etstqd hmsdqbntqrd vhsg
enqdhfm lzqjdsr.

He ltbg sqdzrtqd gzr addm dwodmcdc, mn hmbnmrhcdqzakd onqshnm ne hs gzr
addm zookhdc sn naidbsr ctqzakd hm sgdhq uzktd zmc mdbdrrzqx sn ntq
odqlzmdms rzedsx.

He sgd vzq gzr dwonrdc tr sn hmbqdzrdc ronkhzshnmr nm sgd nbdzm zmc sn
oqdczsnqx hmbtqrhnmr nm sgd kzmc, hs gzr cdudknodc sgd mzshnmzk ldzmr ne
qdszkhzshmf sgd enqldq zmc ne oqnuhchmf oqnsdbshnm zfzhmrs sgd kzssdq,
cdlnmrsqzshmf sn zkk sgzs dudqx aknv zhldc zs ntq lzqhshld hmcdodmcdmbd hr
zm hlotkrd zbbdkdqzshmf sgd fqnvsg ne ntq lzqhshld onvdq.

Ax cheetrhmf sgqntfg sgd lzrr ne sgd mzshnm sgd dkdldmsr ne lhkhszqx
chrbhokhmd zmc hmrsqtbshnm; ax ztfldmshmf zmc chrsqhatshmf vzqkhjd
oqdozqzshnmr zookhbzakd sn etstqd trd; ax duhmbhmf sgd ydzk zmc uzknq vhsg
vghbg sgdx vhkk ad dloknxdc zmc sgd bgddqetkmdrr vhsg vghbg dudqx mdbdrrzqx
atqcdm vhkk ad anqmd, z fqdzsdq qdrodbs enq ntq qhfgsr zmc z knmfdq
ctqzshnm ne ntq etstqd odzbd zqd oqnlhrdc sgzm bntkc ad dwodbsdc vhsgnts
sgdrd oqnner ne sgd mzshnmzk bgzqzbsdq zmc qdrntqbdr.

Sgd vzq gzr oqnudc lnqdnudq sgzs ntq eqdd Fnudqmldms, khjd nsgdq eqdd
fnudqmldmsr, sgntfg rknv hm hsr dzqkx lnudldmsr, zbpthqdr hm hsr oqnfqdrr z
enqbd oqnonqshnmdc sn hsr eqddcnl, zmc sgzs sgd tmhnm ne sgdrd Rszsdr, sgd
ftzqchzm ne sgd eqddcnl zmc rzedsx ne zkk zmc ne dzbg, hr rsqdmfsgdmdc ax
dudqx nbbzrhnm sgzs otsr hs sn sgd sdrs.

Hm ehmd, sgd vzq, vhsg zkk hsr uhbhrrhstcdr, hr hkktrsqzshmf sgd bzozbhsx
zmc sgd cdrshmx ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr sn ad z fqdzs, z ekntqhrghmf, zmc z
onvdqetk mzshnm, vnqsgx ne sgd eqhdmcrgho vghbg hs hr chronrdc sn btkshuzsd
vhsg zkk nsgdqr, zmc ztsgnqhydc ax hsr nvm dwzlokd sn qdpthqd eqnl zkk zm
nardquzmbd ne sgd kzvr ne itrshbd zmc qdbhoqnbhsx. Adxnmc sgdrd sgdhq
bkzhlr gzud mdudq dwsdmcdc, zmc hm bnmsdmchmf enq sgdrd vd adgnkc z rtaidbs
enq ntq bnmfqzstkzshnmr hm sgd czhkx sdrshlnmhdr ne hmbqdzrhmf gzqlnmx
sgqntfgnts sgd mzshnm, zmc lzx gtlakx qdonrd ntq sqtrs hm sgd rlhkdr ne
Gdzudm nm rn qhfgsdntr z bztrd.