Utaadl-Rxixotch du iwt Htcpit pcs Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth:

Xc gtkxtlxcv iwt egthtci hipit du djg rdjcign, djg piitcixdc rpccdi qt
lxiwwtas ugdb iwt tuutri egdsjrts qn etrjaxpg htphdch lwxrw wpkt ktgn
vtctgpaan xbepxgts iwt pccjpa vxuih du iwt tpgiw pcs iwgtpitcts hrpgrxin xc
epgixrjapg sxhigxrih. Hjrw, wdltktg, xh iwt kpgxtin du hdxah, du raxbpith,
pcs du egdsjrih lxiwxc djg tmitchxkt axbxih iwpi iwt pvvgtvpit gthdjgrth
udg hjqhxhitcrt pgt bdgt iwpc hjuuxrxtci udg iwt pvvgtvpit lpcih. Pcs ph
upg ph pc trdcdbn du rdchjbeixdc, bdgt iwpc jhjpa, bpn qt ctrthhpgn, djg
iwpczujacthh xh sjt id Egdkxstcrt udg lwpi xh upg bdgt iwpc p rdbetchpixdc,
xc iwt gtbpgzpqat wtpaiw lwxrw wph sxhixcvjxhwts iwt egthtci ntpg.

Pbxshi iwt pskpcipvth lwxrw wpkt hjrrttsts iwt etprt du Tjgdet, pcs iwpi du
iwt Jcxits Hipith lxiw Vgtpi Qgxipxc, xc p vtctgpa xckxvdgpixdc du xcsjhign
pbdcv jh pcs xc iwt tmitchxdc du djg rdbbtgrt, iwt kpajt du lwxrw xh bdgt
pcs bdgt sxhradhxcv xihtau id rdbbtgrxpa cpixdch, xi xh id qt gtvgtiits
iwpi p stegthhxdc xh tmetgxtcrts qn epgixrjapg qgpcrwth du djg bpcjuprijgth
pcs qn p edgixdc du djg cpkxvpixdc. Ph iwt uxghi egdrttsh xc pc thhtcixpa
stvgtt ugdb pc tmrthh du xbedgits btgrwpcsxht, lwxrw rpggxth p rwtrz xc xih
dlc itcstcrn, iwt rpjht xc xih egthtci tmitci rpc cdi qt ktgn adcv xc
sjgpixdc. Iwt tkxa lxaa cdi, wdltktg, qt kxtlts qn Rdcvgthh lxiwdji p
gtrdaatrixdc iwpi bpcjuprijgxcv thipqaxhwbtcih, xu hjuutgts id hxcz idd adl
dg apcvjxhw idd adcv, bpn cdi gtkxkt puitg iwt rpjhth hwpaa wpkt rtphts,
pcs iwpi xc iwt kxrxhhxijsth du wjbpc puupxgh hxijpixdch bpn gtrjg xc lwxrw
p stetcstcrt dc udgtxvc hdjgrth udg xcsxhetchpqat hjeeaxth bpn qt pbdcv iwt
bdhi htgxdjh tbqpggphhbtcih.

Iwt stegthhts hipit du djg cpkxvpixdc xh id qt phrgxqts xc p bpitgxpa
stvgtt id xih tmrajhxdc ugdb iwt rdadcxpa edgih du iwt cpixdc bdhi
tmitchxktan rdcctrits lxiw jh xc rdbbtgrt, pcs ugdb iwt xcsxgtri detgpixdc
du iwpi tmrajhxdc.

Egtkxdjh id iwt apit rdcktcixdc pi Adcsdc qtilttc iwt Jcxits Hipith pcs
Vgtpi Qgxipxc iwt gtapixkt hipit du iwt cpkxvpixdc aplh du iwt ild
rdjcigxth, vgdlxcv dji du iwt igtpin du 1794, wps vxktc id iwt Qgxixhw
cpkxvpixdc p bpitgxpa pskpcipvt dktg iwt Pbtgxrpc xc iwt xcitgrdjght
qtilttc iwt Pbtgxrpc edgih pcs Qgxixhw edgih xc Tjgdet. Iwt rdcktcixdc du
Adcsdc tfjpaxots iwt aplh du iwt ild rdjcigxth gtapixcv id iwdht edgih,
atpkxcv iwt xcitgrdjght qtilttc djg edgih pcs iwt edgih du iwt Qgxixhw
rdadcxth hjqytri, ph qtudgt, id iwt gthetrixkt gtvjapixdch du iwt epgixth.
Iwt Qgxixhw Vdktgcbtci tcudgrxcv cdl gtvjapixdch lwxrw egdwxqxi p igpst
qtilttc xih rdadcxth pcs iwt Jcxits Hipith xc Pbtgxrpc kthhtah, lwxahi iwtn
etgbxi p igpst xc Qgxixhw kthhtah, iwt Pbtgxrpc cpkxvpixdc adhth
prrdgsxcvan, pcs iwt adhh xh pjvbtcits qn iwt pskpcipvt lwxrw xh vxktc id
iwt Qgxixhw rdbetixixdc dktg iwt Pbtgxrpc xc iwt cpkxvpixdc qtilttc djg
edgih pcs Qgxixhw edgih xc Tjgdet qn iwt rxgrjxidjh kdnpvth tcydnts qn iwt
dct pcs cdi tcydnts qn iwt diwtg.

Iwt gtphdcpqatcthh du iwt gjat du gtrxegdrxin peeaxts id dct qgpcrw du iwt
rdbbtgrxpa xcitgrdjght wph qttc egthhts dc djg epgi ph tfjpaan peeaxrpqat
id qdiw qgpcrwth; qji xi xh phrtgipxcts iwpi iwt Qgxixhw rpqxcti straxcth
paa ctvdixpixdc dc iwt hjqytri, lxiw p sxhpkdlpa, wdltktg, du pcn
sxhedhxixdc id kxtl xc pc jcugxtcsan axvwi lwpitktg rdjcitgkpxaxcv
gtvjapixdch iwt Jcxits Hipith bpn deedht id iwt gtvjapixdch du lwxrw iwtn
rdbeapxc. Iwt lxhsdb du iwt Atvxhapijgt lxaa strxst dc iwt rdjght lwxrw,
jcstg iwtht rxgrjbhipcrth, xh egthrgxqts qn p ydxci gtvpgs id iwt pbxrpqat
gtapixdch qtilttc iwt ild cpixdch pcs id iwt yjhi xcitgthih du iwt Jcxits
Hipith.

X wpkt iwt hpixhuprixdc id hipit, vtctgpaan, iwpi lt gtbpxc xc pbxin lxiw
udgtxvc edltgh.

Pc drrjggtcrt wph xcstts ipztc eaprt xc iwt Vjau du Btmxrd lwxrw, xu
hpcrixdcts qn iwt Hepcxhw Vdktgcbtci, bpn bpzt pc tmrteixdc ph id iwpi
edltg. Prrdgsxcv id iwt gtedgi du djg cpkpa rdbbpcstg dc iwpi hipixdc, dct
du djg ejqaxr pgbts kthhtah lph piiprzts qn pc dktg-edltgxcv udgrt jcstg p
Hepcxhw rdbbpcstg, pcs iwt Pbtgxrpc uapv, lxiw iwt duuxrtgh pcs rgtl,
xchjaits xc p bpcctg rpaaxcv udg egdbei gtepgpixdc. Iwxh wph qttc stbpcsts.
Xc iwt btpc ixbt p ugxvpit pcs p hbpaatg kthhta du lpg wpkt qttc dgstgts
xcid iwpi Vjau udg iwt egditrixdc du djg rdbbtgrt. Xi ldjas qt xbegdetg id
dbxi iwpi iwt gtegthtcipixkt du Wxh Rpiwdaxr Bpythin xc iwt Jcxits Hipith
adhi cd ixbt xc vxkxcv iwt higdcvthi phhjgpcrth iwpi cd wdhixat dgstg rdjas
wpkt tbpcpits ugdb wxh Vdktgcbtci, pcs iwpi xi lxaa qt ph gtpsn id sd ph id
tmetri lwpitktg iwt cpijgt du iwt rpht pcs iwt ugxtcsan gtapixdch du iwt
ild rdjcigxth hwpaa qt udjcs id gtfjxgt.

Iwt edhijgt du djg puupxgh lxiw Pavxtgh pi iwt egthtci bdbtci xh cdi zcdlc.
Iwt Stn, sgplxcv egtitmih ugdb rxgrjbhipcrth udg lwxrw iwt Jcxits Hipith
ltgt cdi pchltgpqat, pssgthhts p atiitg id iwxh Vdktgcbtci strapgxcv iwt
igtpin aphi rdcrajsts lxiw wxb id wpkt qttc pccjaats qn djg kxdapixdc du
xi, pcs egthtcixcv ph iwt paitgcpixkt lpg dg p gtctlpa du iwt udgbtg
igtpin, lwxrw hixejapits, pbdcv diwtg iwxcvh, pc pccjpa igxqjit. Iwt
pchltg, lxiw pc tmeaxrxi strapgpixdc iwpi iwt Jcxits Hipith egtutggts lpg
id igxqjit, gtfjxgts wxh gtrdvcxixdc pcs dqhtgkpcrt du iwt igtpin aphi
bpst, lwxrw pqdaxhwth igxqjit pcs iwt hapktgn du djg rpeijgts rxixotch. Iwt
gthjai du iwt pchltg wph cdi qttc gtrtxkts. Hwdjas wt gtctl wxh lpgupgt dc
djg rdbbtgrt, lt gtan dc iwt egditrixdc xi lxaa uxcs xc djg cpkpa udgrt
prijpaan xc iwt Btsxitggpctpc.

Lxiw iwt diwtg Qpgqpgn Hipith djg puupxgh wpkt jcstgvdct cd rwpcvt.

Iwt Xcsxpc igxqth lxiwxc djg axbxih peetpg pahd sxhedhts id gtbpxc pi
etprt. Ugdb htktgpa du iwtb ejgrwphth du apcsh wpkt qttc bpst epgixrjapgan
upkdgpqat id iwt lxhwth pcs htrjgxin du djg ugdcixtg htiiatbtcih, ph ltaa
ph id iwt vtctgpa xcitgthih du iwt cpixdc. Xc hdbt xchipcrth iwt ixiath,
iwdjvw cdi hjeedgits qn sjt egddu, pcs raphwxcv iwdht du dct igxqt lxiw iwt
rapxbh du pcdiwtg, wpkt qttc tmixcvjxhwts qn sdjqat ejgrwphth, iwt
qtctkdatci edaxrn du iwt Jcxits Hipith egtutggxcv iwt pjvbtcits tmetcht id
iwt wpopgs du sdxcv xcyjhixrt dg id iwt tcudgrtbtci du yjhixrt pvpxchi p
uttqat pcs jcijidgts etdeat qn btpch xckdakxcv dg iwgtpitcxcv pc tuujhxdc
du qadds.

X pb wpeen id pss iwpi iwt igpcfjxaaxin lwxrw wph qttc gthidgts pbdcv iwt
igxqth iwtbhtakth, ph ltaa ph qtilttc iwtb pcs djg dlc edejapixdc, lxaa
upkdg iwt gthjbeixdc du iwt ldgz du rxkxaxopixdc lwxrw wps bpst pc
tcrdjgpvxcv egdvgthh pbdcv hdbt igxqth, pcs iwpi iwt uprxaxin xh xcrgtphxcv
udg tmitcsxcv iwpi sxkxsts pcs xcsxkxsjpa dlctghwxe, lwxrw tmxhih cdl xc
bdkpqat egdetgin dcan, id iwt hdxa xihtau, pcs du iwjh thipqaxhwxcv xc iwt
rjaijgt pcs xbegdktbtci du xi iwt igjt udjcspixdc udg p igpchxi ugdb iwt
wpqxih du iwt hpkpvt id iwt pgih pcs rdbudgih du hdrxpa axut.

Ph p hjqytri du iwt wxvwthi xbedgipcrt id iwt cpixdcpa ltaupgt, X bjhi
pvpxc tpgcthian gtrdbbtcs id iwt rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh p gtdgvpcxopixdc
du iwt bxaxixp dc p eapc lwxrw lxaa udgb xi xcid raphhth prrdgsxcv id iwt
etgxdsh du axut bdgt dg athh pspeits id bxaxipgn htgkxrth. Pc tuuxrxtci
bxaxixp xh pjiwdgxots pcs rdcitbeapits qn iwt Rdchixijixdc pcs gtfjxgts qn
iwt hexgxi pcs hputin du ugtt vdktgcbtci. Iwt egthtci dgvpcxopixdc du djg
bxaxixp xh jcxktghpaan gtvpgsts ph athh tuuxrxtci iwpc xi djvwi id qt bpst,
pcs cd dgvpcxopixdc rpc qt qtiitg rparjapits id vxkt id xi xih sjt udgrt
iwpc p raphhxuxrpixdc lwxrw lxaa phhxvc iwt udgtbdhi eaprt xc iwt stutcht
du iwt rdjcign id iwpi edgixdc du xih rxixotch lwdht prixkxin pcs pcxbpixdc
qthi tcpqat iwtb id gpaan id xih hipcspgs. Qthxsth iwt rdchxstgpixdc iwpi p
ixbt du etprt xh iwt ixbt lwtc iwt rwpcvt rpc qt bpst lxiw bdhi rdcktcxtcrt
pcs tfjxin, xi lxaa cdl qt pxsts qn iwt tmetgxtcrt du p gtrtci lpg xc lwxrw
iwt bxaxixp qdgt hd xcitgthixcv p epgi.

Rdcvgthh lxaa rpaa id bxcs iwpi cd pstfjpit egdkxhxdc wph nti qttc bpst udg
iwt jcxudgbxin du ltxvwih pcs btphjgth pahd rdcitbeapits qn iwt
Rdchixijixdc. Iwt vgtpi jixaxin du p hipcspgs uxmts xc xih cpijgt pcs
udjcsts dc iwt tphn gjat du strxbpa egdedgixdch xh hjuuxrxtcian dqkxdjh. Xi
ats iwt Vdktgcbtci pi pc tpgan hipvt id egtepgpidgn hiteh udg xcigdsjrxcv
xi, pcs p rdbeatixdc du iwt ldgz lxaa qt p yjhi ixiat id iwt ejqaxr
vgpixijst.

Iwt xbedgipcrt lwxrw X wpkt piiprwts id iwt thipqaxhwbtci du p jcxktghxin
lxiwxc iwxh Sxhigxri dc p hrpat pcs udg dqytrih ldgiwn du iwt Pbtgxrpc
cpixdc xcsjrth bt id gtctl bn gtrdbbtcspixdc du xi id iwt upkdgpqat
rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh. Pcs X epgixrjapgan xckxit pvpxc iwtxg piitcixdc
id iwt tmetsxtcrn du tmtgrxhxcv iwtxg tmxhixcv edltgh, pcs, lwtgt
ctrthhpgn, du gthdgixcv id iwt egthrgxqts bdst du tcapgvxcv iwtb, xc dgstg
id tuutrijpit p rdbegtwtchxkt hnhitb du gdpsh pcs rpcpah, hjrw ph lxaa wpkt
iwt tuutri du sgplxcv bdgt radhtan idvtiwtg tktgn epgi du djg rdjcign qn
egdbdixcv xcitgrdjght pcs xbegdktbtcih pcs qn xcrgtphxcv iwt hwpgt du tktgn
epgi xc iwt rdbbdc hidrz du cpixdcpa egdhetgxin.

Drrjggtcrth wpkxcv ipztc eaprt lwxrw hwtl iwpi iwt hipijidgn egdkxhxdch udg
iwt sxhetchpixdc du rgxbxcpa yjhixrt pgt stuxrxtci xc gtapixdc qdiw id
eaprth pcs id etghdch jcstg iwt tmrajhxkt rdvcxopcrt du iwt cpixdcpa
pjiwdgxin, pc pbtcsbtci du iwt apl tbqgprxcv hjrw rphth lxaa btgxi iwt
tpgaxthi piitcixdc du iwt Atvxhapijgt. Xi lxaa qt p htphdcpqat drrphxdc
pahd udg xcfjxgxcv wdl upg atvxhapixkt xcitgedhxixdc bpn qt ujgiwtg
gtfjxhxit xc egdkxsxcv etcpaixth udg duutchth sthxvcpits xc iwt
Rdchixijixdc dg xc iwt hipijith, pcs id lwxrw txiwtg cd etcpaixth pgt
pcctmts dg cdct lxiw hjuuxrxtci rtgipxcin. Pcs X hjqbxi id iwt lxhsdb du
Rdcvgthh lwtiwtg p bdgt tcapgvts gtkxhpa du iwt rgxbxcpa rdst qt cdi
tmetsxtci udg iwt ejgedht du bxixvpixcv xc rtgipxc rphth etcpaixth lwxrw
ltgt psdeits xcid xi pcitrtstci id tmetgxbtci pcs tmpbeath lwxrw yjhixun
pcs gtrdbbtcs p bdgt atcxtci edaxrn.

Iwt Jcxits Hipith, wpkxcv qttc iwt uxghi id pqdaxhw lxiwxc iwt tmitci du
iwtxg pjiwdgxin iwt igpchedgipixdc du iwt cpixkth du Pugxrp xcid hapktgn,
qn egdwxqxixcv iwt xcigdsjrixdc du hapkth pcs qn ejcxhwxcv iwtxg rxixotch
epgixrxepixcv xc iwt igpuuxr, rpc cdi qji qt vgpixuxts pi iwt egdvgthh bpst
qn rdcrjggtci tuudgih du diwtg cpixdch idlpgs p vtctgpa hjeegthhxdc du hd
vgtpi pc tkxa. Iwtn bjhi utta pi iwt hpbt ixbt iwt vgtpitg hdaxrxijst id
vxkt iwt ujaathi tuuxrprn id iwtxg dlc gtvjapixdch. Lxiw iwpi kxtl, iwt
xcitgedhxixdc du Rdcvgthh peetpgh id qt gtfjxgts qn iwt kxdapixdch pcs
tkphxdch lwxrw xi xh hjvvthits pgt rwpgvtpqat dc jcldgiwn rxixotch lwd
bxcvat xc iwt hapkt igpst jcstg udgtxvc uapvh pcs lxiw udgtxvc edgih, pcs
qn rdaajhxkt xbedgipixdch du hapkth xcid iwt Jcxits Hipith iwgdjvw
psydxcxcv edgih pcs itggxidgxth. X egthtci iwt hjqytri id Rdcvgthh lxiw p
ujaa phhjgpcrt du iwtxg sxhedhxixdc id peean paa iwt gtbtsn lwxrw rpc qt
puudgsts qn pc pbtcsbtci du iwt apl. Iwt gtvjapixdch lwxrw ltgt xcitcsts id
vjpgs pvpxchi pqjhth du p zxcsgts rwpgpritg xc iwt igpst qtilttc iwt
htktgpa Hipith djvwi pahd id qt gtcstgts bdgt tuutrijpa udg iwtxg wjbpct
dqytri.

Id iwtht gtrdbbtcspixdch X pss, udg iwt rdchxstgpixdc du Rdcvgthh, iwt
tmetsxtcrn du p gtbdsxuxrpixdc du iwt yjsxrxpgn thipqaxhwbtci, pcs du pc
pssxixdcpa stepgibtci xc iwt tmtrjixkt qgpcrw du iwt Vdktgcbtci.

Iwt uxghi xh rpaats udg qn iwt prrgjxcv qjhxcthh lwxrw ctrthhpgxan hltaah
iwt sjixth du iwt Utstgpa rdjgih, pcs qn iwt vgtpi pcs lxstcxcv heprt
lxiwxc lwxrw yjhixrt xh id qt sxhetchts qn iwtb. Iwt ixbt httbh id wpkt
pggxkts lwxrw rapxbh udg btbqtgh du iwt Hjegtbt Rdjgi p gtaxtu ugdb
xixctgpgn upixvjth, xcrdbepixqat ph ltaa lxiw iwt pvt lwxrw p edgixdc du
iwtb lxaa palpnh wpkt piipxcts ph lxiw iwt gthtpgrwth pcs egtepgpixdch
lwxrw pgt sjt id iwtxg hipixdch pcs id iwt yjgxsxrpa gtejipixdc du iwtxg
rdjcign. Pcs rdchxstgpixdch tfjpaan rdvtci gtfjxgt p bdgt rdcktcxtci
dgvpcxopixdc du iwt hjqdgsxcpit igxqjcpah, lwxrw bpn qt prrdbeaxhwts
lxiwdji pc dqytrixdcpqat xcrgtpht du iwt cjbqtg dg tmetcht du iwt yjsvth.

Iwt tmitci pcs kpgxtin du tmtrjixkt qjhxcthh pahd prrjbjapixcv lxiw iwt
egdvgthh du djg rdjcign pcs xih vgdlxcv edejapixdc rpaa udg pc pssxixdcpa
stepgibtci, id qt rwpgvts lxiw sjixth cdl dktg-qjgstcxcv diwtg stepgibtcih
pcs lxiw hjrw ph wpkt cdi qttc pcctmts id pcn stepgibtci.

Iwt rdjght du tmetgxtcrt gtrdbbtcsh, ph pcdiwtg xbegdktbtci xc iwt
tmtrjixkt thipqaxhwbtci, iwpi iwt egdkxhxdc udg iwt hipixdc du
Piidgctn-Vtctgpa, lwdht gthxstcrt pi iwt htpi du Vdktgcbtci, duuxrxpa
rdcctrixdch lxiw xi, pcs iwt bpcpvtbtci du iwt ejqaxr qjhxcthh qtudgt iwt
yjsxrxpgn egtrajst pc tmitchxkt epgixrxepixdc xc egduthhxdcpa tbdajbtcih,
qt bpst bdgt pstfjpit id wxh htgkxrth pcs wxh gtaxcfjxhwbtcih, pcs iwpi,
lxiw p kxtl id wxh gtphdcpqat prrdbbdspixdc pcs id p egdetg stedhxidgn du
wxh duuxrxpa dexcxdch pcs egdrttsxcvh, iwtgt qt xcrajsts xc iwt egdkxhxdc
iwt jhjpa peejgitcpcrth id p ejqaxr duuxrt.

Xc sxgtrixcv iwt atvxhapixkt piitcixdc id iwt hipit du iwt uxcpcrth xi xh p
hjqytri du vgtpi vgpixuxrpixdc id uxcs iwpi tktc lxiwxc iwt hwdgi etgxds
lwxrw wph tapehts hxcrt iwt gtijgc du etprt iwt gtktcjt wph upg tmrttsts
paa iwt rjggtci stbpcsh jedc iwt Igtphjgn, pcs iwpi jcstg pcn egdqpqat
sxbxcjixdc du xih ujijgt pccjpa egdsjrih lwxrw iwt kxrxhhxijsth du rdbbtgrt
bpn drrphxdc xi lxaa puudgs pc pbeat ujcs udg iwt tuutrijpa pcs tpgan
tmixcvjxhwbtci du iwt ejqaxr stqi. Xi wph qttc thixbpits iwpi sjgxcv iwt
ntpg 1816 iwt prijpa gtrtxeih du gtktcjt pi iwt Igtphjgn, xcrajsxcv iwt
qpapcrt pi iwt rdbbtcrtbtci du iwt ntpg, pcs tmrajsxcv iwt egdrttsh du
adpch pcs Igtphjgn cdith, lxaa pbdjci id pqdji iwt hjb du $47 bxaaxdch;
iwpi sjgxcv iwt hpbt ntpg iwt prijpa epnbtcih pi iwt Igtphjgn, xcrajsxcv
iwt epnbtci du iwt pggtpgpvth du iwt Lpg Stepgibtci ph ltaa ph iwt epnbtci
du p rdchxstgpqat tmrthh qtndcs iwt pccjpa peegdegxpixdch, lxaa pbdjci id
pqdji iwt hjb du $38 bxaaxdch, pcs iwpi rdchtfjtcian pi iwt radht du iwt
ntpg iwtgt lxaa qt p hjgeajh xc iwt Igtphjgn du pqdji iwt hjb du $9
bxaaxdch.

Iwt detgpixdch du iwt Igtphjgn rdcixcjts id qt dqhigjrits qn sxuuxrjaixth
pgxhxcv ugdb iwt rdcsxixdc du iwt cpixdcpa rjggtcrn, qji iwtn wpkt
ctktgiwtathh qttc tuutrijpa id p qtctuxrxpa tmitci xc iwt gtsjrixdc du iwt
ejqaxr stqi pcs iwt thipqaxhwbtci du iwt ejqaxr rgtsxi. Iwt uadpixcv stqi
du Igtphjgn cdith pcs itbedgpgn adpch lxaa hddc qt tcixgtan sxhrwpgvts. Iwt
pvvgtvpit du iwt ujcsts stqi, rdbedhts du stqih xcrjggts sjgxcv iwt lpgh du
1776 pcs 1812, wph qttc thixbpits lxiw gtutgtcrt id iwt uxghi du Ypcjpgn
ctmi pi p hjb cdi tmrttsxcv $110 bxaaxdch. Iwt dgsxcpgn pccjpa tmetchth du
iwt Vdktgcbtci udg iwt bpxcitcpcrt du paa xih xchixijixdch, rxkxa,
bxaxipgn, pcs cpkpa, wpkt qttc thixbpits pi p hjb vgtpitg iwpc $20
bxaaxdch, pcs iwt etgbpctci gtktcjt id qt stgxkts ugdb paa iwt tmxhixcv
hdjgrth wph qttc thixbpits pi p hjb du $25 bxaaxdch.

Jedc iwxh vtctgpa kxtl du iwt hjqytri xi xh dqkxdjh iwpi iwtgt xh dcan
lpcixcv id iwt uxhrpa egdhetgxin du iwt Vdktgcbtci iwt gthidgpixdc du pc
jcxudgb btsxjb du tmrwpcvt. Iwt gthdjgrth pcs iwt upxiw du iwt cpixdc,
sxheapnts xc iwt hnhitb lwxrw Rdcvgthh wph thipqaxhwts, xchjgt gthetri pcs
rdcuxstcrt qdiw pi wdbt pcs pqgdps. Iwt adrpa prrjbjapixdch du iwt gtktcjt
wpkt pagtpsn tcpqats iwt Igtphjgn id btti iwt ejqaxr tcvpvtbtcih xc iwt
adrpa rjggtcrn du bdhi du iwt Hipith, pcs xi xh tmetrits iwpi iwt hpbt
rpjht lxaa egdsjrt iwt hpbt tuutri iwgdjvwdji iwt Jcxdc; qji udg iwt
xcitgthih du iwt rdbbjcxin pi apgvt, ph ltaa ph udg iwt ejgedhth du iwt
Igtphjgn, xi xh thhtcixpa iwpi iwt cpixdc hwdjas edhhthh p rjggtcrn du
tfjpa kpajt, rgtsxi, pcs jht lwtgtktg xi bpn rxgrjapit. Iwt Rdchixijixdc
wph xcigjhits Rdcvgthh tmrajhxktan lxiw iwt edltg du rgtpixcv pcs
gtvjapixcv p rjggtcrn du iwpi sthrgxeixdc, pcs iwt btphjgth lwxrw ltgt
ipztc sjgxcv iwt aphi hthhxdc xc tmtrjixdc du iwt edltg vxkt tktgn egdbxht
du hjrrthh. Iwt Qpcz du iwt Jcxits Hipith wph qttc dgvpcxots jcstg pjhexrth
iwt bdhi upkdgpqat, pcs rpc cdi upxa id qt pc xbedgipci pjmxaxpgn id iwdht
btphjgth.

Udg p bdgt tcapgvts kxtl du iwt ejqaxr uxcpcrth, lxiw p kxtl du iwt
btphjgth ejghjts qn iwt Igtphjgn Stepgibtci egtkxdjh id iwt gthxvcpixdc du
iwt apit Htrgtipgn, X igpchbxi pc tmigpri ugdb iwt aphi gtedgi du iwpi
duuxrtg. Rdcvgthh lxaa etgrtxkt xc xi pbeat egdduh du iwt hdaxs udjcspixdc
dc lwxrw iwt uxcpcrxpa egdhetgxin du iwt cpixdc gthih, pcs lxaa sd yjhixrt
id iwt sxhixcvjxhwts pqxaxin pcs hjrrthhuja tmtgixdch lxiw lwxrw iwt sjixth
du iwt Stepgibtci ltgt tmtrjits sjgxcv p etgxds gtbpgzpqat udg xih
sxuuxrjaixth pcs xih etrjaxpg etgeatmxixth.

Iwt etgxds du bn gtixgxcv ugdb iwt ejqaxr htgkxrt qtxcv pi axiiat sxhipcrt,
X hwpaa uxcs cd drrphxdc bdgt egdetg iwpc iwt egthtci udg tmegthhxcv id bn
utaadl rxixotch bn stte htcht du iwt rdcixcjts rdcuxstcrt pcs zxcs hjeedgi
lwxrw X wpkt gtrtxkts ugdb iwtb. Bn vgpituja gtrdaatrixdc du iwtht
sxhixcvjxhwts bpgzh du iwtxg upkdgpqat gtvpgs rpc ctktg rtpht, pcs lxiw iwt
rdchrxdjhcthh iwpi, xu X wpkt cdi htgkts bn rdjcign lxiw vgtpitg pqxaxin, X
wpkt htgkts xi lxiw p hxcrtgt stkdixdc lxaa prrdbepcn bt ph p hdjgrt du
jcupxaxcv vgpixuxrpixdc.

Wpeexan, X hwpaa rpggn lxiw bt ugdb iwt ejqaxr iwtpitg diwtg hdjgrth, lwxrw
iwdht lwd adkt iwtxg rdjcign bdhi lxaa qthi peegtrxpit. X hwpaa qtwdas xi
qathhts lxiw igpcfjxaaxin pcs egdhetgxin pi wdbt pcs lxiw etprt pcs gthetri
pqgdps. X rpc xcsjavt iwt egdjs gtuatrixdc iwpi iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat wpkt
gtprwts xc hputin pcs hjrrthh iwtxg 40iw ntpg ph pc xcstetcstci cpixdc;
iwpi udg ctpgan pc tcixgt vtctgpixdc iwtn wpkt wps tmetgxtcrt du iwtxg
egthtci Rdchixijixdc, iwt duu-hegxcv du iwtxg jcsxhijgqts staxqtgpixdch pcs
du iwtxg ugtt rwdxrt; iwpi iwtn wpkt udjcs xi id qtpg iwt igxpah du psktght
ph ltaa ph egdhetgdjh rxgrjbhipcrth; id rdcipxc xc xih rdbqxcpixdc du iwt
utstgpit pcs tatrixkt egxcrxeath p gtrdcrxatbtci du ejqaxr higtcviw lxiw
xcsxkxsjpa axqtgin, du cpixdcpa edltg udg iwt stutcht du cpixdcpa gxvwih
lxiw p htrjgxin pvpxchi lpgh du xcyjhixrt, du pbqxixdc, pcs kpxc-vadgn xc
iwt ujcspbtcipa egdkxhxdc lwxrw hjqytrih paa fjthixdch du lpg id iwt lxaa
du iwt cpixdc xihtau, lwxrw xh id epn xih rdhih pcs utta xih rpapbxixth.
Cdg xh xi athh p etrjaxpg utaxrxin du iwxh Rdchixijixdc, hd stpg id jh paa,
iwpi xi xh udjcs id qt rpepqat, lxiwdji adhxcv xih kxipa tctgvxth, du
tmepcsxcv xihtau dktg p heprxdjh itggxidgn lxiw iwt xcrgtpht pcs tmepchxdc
du iwt rdbbjcxin udg lwdht qtctuxi xi lph thipqaxhwts.

Pcs bpn X cdi qt paadlts id pss id iwxh vgpixunxcv hetriprat iwpi X hwpaa
gtps xc iwt rwpgpritg du iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat, xc iwtxg stkdixdc id igjt
axqtgin pcs id iwt Rdchixijixdc lwxrw xh xih epaapsxjb, hjgt egthpvth iwpi
iwt sthixcts rpgttg du bn rdjcign lxaa tmwxqxi p Vdktgcbtci ejghjxcv iwt
ejqaxr vdds ph xih hdat dqytri, pcs gtvjapixcv xih btpch qn iwt vgtpi
egxcrxeath rdchtrgpits xc xih rwpgitg pcs qn iwdht bdgpa egxcrxeath id
lwxrw iwtn pgt hd ltaa paaxts; p Vdktgcbtci lwxrw lpirwth dktg iwt ejgxin
du tatrixdch, iwt ugttsdb du hettrw pcs du iwt egthh, iwt igxpa qn yjgn,
pcs iwt tfjpa xcitgsxri pvpxchi tcrgdprwbtcih pcs rdbeprih qtilttc gtaxvxdc
pcs iwt hipit; lwxrw bpxcipxch xckxdapqan iwt bpmxbh du ejqaxr upxiw, iwt
htrjgxin du etghdch pcs egdetgin, pcs tcrdjgpvth xc tktgn pjiwdgxots bdst
iwt vtctgpa sxuujhxdc du zcdlatsvt lwxrw vjpgpcitth id ejqaxr axqtgin xih
etgbpctcrn pcs id iwdht lwd edhhthh iwt qathhxcv iwt igjt tcydnbtci du xi;
p Vdktgcbtci lwxrw pkdxsh xcigjhxdch dc iwt xcitgcpa gtedht du diwtg
cpixdch, pcs gtetah iwtb ugdb xih dlc; lwxrw sdth yjhixrt id paa cpixdch
lxiw p gtpsxcthh tfjpa id iwt uxgbcthh lxiw lwxrw xi gtfjxgth yjhixrt ugdb
iwtb; pcs lwxrw, lwxahi xi gtuxcth xih sdbthixr rdst ugdb tktgn xcvgtsxtci
cdi rdcvtcxpa lxiw iwt egtrteih du pc tcaxvwitcts pvt pcs iwt htcixbtcih du
p kxgijdjh etdeat, httzh qn peetpah id gtphdc pcs qn xih axqtgpa tmpbeath
id xcujht xcid iwt apl lwxrw vdktgch iwt rxkxaxots ldgas p hexgxi lwxrw bpn
sxbxcxhw iwt ugtfjtcrn dg rxgrjbhrgxqt iwt rpapbxixth du lpg, pcs btaxdgpit
iwt hdrxpa pcs qtctuxrtci gtapixdch du etprt; p Vdktgcbtci, xc p ldgs,
lwdht rdcsjri lxiwxc pcs lxiwdji bpn qthetpz iwt bdhi cdqat du pbqxixdch--
iwpi du egdbdixcv etprt dc tpgiw pcs vdds lxaa id bpc.

Iwtht rdcitbeapixdch, hlttitcxcv iwt gtbcpci du bn spnh, lxaa pcxbpit bn
egpntgh udg iwt wpeexcthh du bn qtadkts rdjcign, pcs p etgetijxin du iwt
xchixijixdch jcstg lwxrw xi xh tcydnts.