Nmttwe-Kqbqhmva wn bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Qv kittqvo gwc bwombpmz awwvmz bpiv i amxizibqwv nzwu gwcz pwuma ewctl
wbpmzeqam pidm jmmv zmycqzml Q gqmtlml bw kwvaqlmzibqwva lziev nzwu bpm
xwabczm wn wcz nwzmqov inniqza, ivl qv nqfqvo bpm xzmamvb nwz bpm bqum wn
gwcz ummbqvo zmoizl eia pil bw bpm xzwjijqtqbg wn nczbpmz lmdmtwxumvba wn
bpm xwtqkg wn bpm jmttqomzmvb xwemza bweizl bpqa kwcvbzg epqkp uqopb bpm
uwzm cvqbm bpm vibqwvit kwcvkqta qv bpm umiaczma bw jm xczacml.

Ib bpm ktwam wn bpm tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa qb eia pwxml bpib bpm
ackkmaaqdm kwvnqzuibqwva wn bpm mfbqvkbqwv wn bpm Nzmvkp lmkzmma, aw niz ia
bpmg dqwtibml wcz vmcbzit kwuumzkm, ewctl pidm qvlckml bpm Owdmzvumvb wn
Ozmib Jzqbiqv bw zmxmit qba wzlmza qv kwcvkqt, ivl bpmzmjg icbpwzqhm i
zmuwdit wn bpm mfqabqvo wjabzckbqwva bw pmz kwuumzkm eqbp bpm Cvqbml
Abibma.

Qvabmil wn bpqa zmiawvijtm abmx bweizl aibqanikbqwv ivl nzqmvlapqx jmbemmv
bpm bew vibqwva, bpm wzlmza emzm, ib i uwumvb epmv tmiab bw pidm jmmv
mfxmkbml, xcb qvbw uwzm zqowzwca mfmkcbqwv; ivl qb eia kwuucvqkibml bpzwcop
bpm Jzqbqap mvdwg rcab izzqdml bpib epqtab bpm zmdwkibqwv wn bpm mlqkba wn
Nzivkm, ia wnnqkqittg uilm svwev bw bpm Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb, eia lmvqml bw
pidm bismv xtikm, qb eia iv qvlqaxmvaijtm kwvlqbqwv wn bpm zmxmit wn bpm
Jzqbqap wzlmza bpib kwuumzkm apwctl jm zmabwzml bw i nwwbqvo bpib ewctl
iluqb bpm xzwlckbqwva ivl uivcnikbczma wn Ozmib Jzqbiqv, epmv wevml jg
vmcbzita, qvbw uizsmba apcb ioiqvab bpmu jg pmz mvmug, bpm Cvqbml Abibma
jmqvo oqdmv bw cvlmzabivl bpib qv bpm umiv bqum i kwvbqvcivkm wn bpmqz
vwvquxwzbibqwv ikb ewctl tmil bw umiaczma wn zmbitqibqwv.

Ib i tibmz libm qb pia qvlmml ixxmizml bpib i kwuucvqkibqwv bw bpm Jzqbqap
Owdmzvumvb wn nzmap mdqlmvkm wn bpm zmxmit wn bpm Nzmvkp lmkzmma ioiqvab
wcz vmcbzit bzilm eia nwttweml jg iv qvbquibqwv bpib qb pil jmmv
bzivauqbbml bw bpm Jzqbqap xtmvqxwbmvbqizg pmzm qv wzlmz bpib qb uqopb
zmkmqdm nctt kwvaqlmzibqwv qv bpm lmxmvlqvo lqakcaaqwva. Bpqa kwuucvqkibqwv
ixxmiza vwb bw pidm jmmv zmkmqdml; jcb bpm bzivauqaaqwv wn qb pqbpmz,
qvabmil wn nwcvlqvo wv qb iv ikbcit zmxmit wn bpm wzlmza wz iaaczivkma bpib
bpm zmxmit ewctl mvacm, eqtt vwb xmzuqb ca bw zmtg wv ivg mnnmkbqdm kpivom
qv bpm Jzqbqap kijqvmb. Bw jm zmilg bw ummb eqbp kwzlqitqbg aibqanikbwzg
xzwwna wn ackp i kpivom, ivl bw xzwkmml qv bpm umiv bqum qv ilixbqvo wcz
umiaczma bw bpm dqmea epqkp pidm jmmv lqaktwaml bpzwcop bpib uqvqabmz eqtt
jmab kwvactb wcz epwtm lcbg.

Qv bpm cvnzqmvltg axqzqb wn bpwam lqaktwaczma qvlmuvqbg ivl zmlzmaa nwz
wbpmz ezwvoa pidm kwvbqvcml bw jm eqbppmtl, ivl wcz kwiaba ivl bpm uwcbpa
wn wcz pizjwza pidm ioiqv eqbvmaaml akmvma vwb tmaa lmzwoibwzg bw bpm
lmizmab wn wcz vibqwvit zqopba bpiv dmfibqwv bw bpm zmoctiz kwczam wn wcz
bzilm.

Iuwvo bpm wkkczzmvkma xzwlckml jg bpm kwvlckb wn Jzqbqap apqxa wn eiz
pwdmzqvo wv wcz kwiaba eia iv mvkwcvbmz jmbemmv wvm wn bpmu ivl bpm
Iumzqkiv nzqoibm kwuuivlml jg Kixbiqv Zwlomza, zmvlmzml cvidwqlijtm wv bpm
xizb wn bpm tibbmz jg i nqzm kwuumvkml eqbpwcb kicam jg bpm nwzumz, epwam
kwuuivlmz qa bpmzmnwzm itwvm kpizomijtm eqbp bpm jtwwl cvnwzbcvibmtg apml
qv uiqvbiqvqvo bpm pwvwz wn bpm Iumzqkiv ntio. Bpm xzwkmmlqvoa wn i kwczb
wn qvycqzg zmycmabml jg Kixbiqv Zwlomza izm kwuucvqkibml, bwombpmz eqbp
bpm kwzzmaxwvlmvkm zmtibqvo bw bpm wkkczzmvkm, jmbemmv bpm Amkzmbizg wn
Abibm ivl Pqa Jzqbivvqk Uirmabg'a mvdwg. Bw bpmam izm illml bpm amdmzit
kwzzmaxwvlmvkma epqkp pidm xiaaml wv bpm acjrmkb wn bpm Jzqbqap wzlmza qv
kwcvkqt, ivl bw jwbp bpm kwzzmaxwvlmvkm zmtibqvo bw bpm Ntwzqlia, qv epqkp
Kwvozmaa eqtt jm uilm ikyciqvbml eqbp bpm qvbmzxwaqbqwv epqkp bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn Ozmib Jzqbiqv pia bpwcopb xzwxmz bw uism ioiqvab bpm
xzwkmmlqvo wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma.

Bpm rcabqkm ivl niqzvmaa epqkp pidm jmmv mdqvkml wv bpm xizb wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma bweizl Nzivkm, jwbp jmnwzm ivl aqvkm bpm zmdwkibqwv wn pmz lmkzmma,
icbpwzqhml iv mfxmkbibqwv bpib pmz Owdmzvumvb ewctl pidm nwttweml cx bpib
umiaczm jg itt ackp wbpmza ia emzm lcm bw wcz zmiawvijtm ktiqua, ia emtt ia
lqkbibml jg qba iuqkijtm xzwnmaaqwva. Vw xzwwn, pwemdmz, qa gmb oqdmv wn iv
qvbmvbqwv bw zmxiqz bpm wbpmz ezwvoa lwvm bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ivl
xizbqkctiztg bw zmabwzm bpm ozmib iuwcvb wn Iumzqkiv xzwxmzbg amqhml ivl
kwvlmuvml cvlmz mlqkba epqkp, bpwcop vwb innmkbqvo wcz vmcbzit zmtibqwva,
ivl bpmzmnwzm vwb mvbmzqvo qvbw ycmabqwva jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl
wbpmz jmttqomzmvba, emzm vmdmzbpmtmaa nwcvlml qv ackp cvrcab xzqvkqxtma
bpib bpm zmxizibqwv wcopb bw pidm jmmv xzwuxb ivl iuxtm.

Qv illqbqwv bw bpqa ivl wbpmz lmuivla wn abzqkb zqopb wv bpib vibqwv, bpm
Cvqbml Abibma pidm uckp zmiawv bw jm lqaaibqanqml eqbp bpm zqowzwca ivl
cvmfxmkbml zmabzqkbqwva bw epqkp bpmqz bzilm eqbp bpm Nzmvkp lwuqvqwva pia
jmmv acjrmkbml, ivl epqkp, qn vwb lqakwvbqvcml, eqtt zmycqzm ib tmiab
kwzzmaxwvlqvo zmabzqkbqwva wv quxwzbibqwva nzwu Nzivkm qvbw bpm Cvqbml
Abibma.

Wv itt bpwam acjrmkba wcz uqvqabmz xtmvqxwbmvbqizg tibmtg amvb bw Xizqa pia
kizzqml eqbp pqu bpm vmkmaaizg qvabzckbqwva, bpm zmactb wn epqkp eqtt jm
kwuucvqkibml bw gwc, jg iakmzbiqvqvo bpm ctbmzqwz xwtqkg wn bpm Nzmvkp
Owdmzvumvb bweizl bpm Cvqbml Abibma, eqtt mvijtm gwc bw ilixb bw qb bpib wn
bpm Cvqbml Abibma bweizl Nzivkm.

Wcz wbpmz nwzmqov zmtibqwva zmuiqv eqbpwcb cvnidwzijtm kpivoma. Eqbp Zcaaqi
bpmg izm wv bpm jmab nwwbqvo wn nzqmvlapqx. Bpm xwzba wn Aemlmv pidm
innwzlml xzwwna wn nzqmvltg lqaxwaqbqwva bweizl wcz kwuumzkm qv bpm
kwcvkqta wn bpib vibqwv itaw, ivl bpm qvnwzuibqwv nzwu wcz axmkqit uqvqabmz
bw Lmvuizs apmea bpib bpm uqaaqwv pil jmmv ibbmvlml eqbp ditcijtm mnnmkba
bw wcz kqbqhmva, epwam xzwxmzbg pil jmmv aw mfbmvaqdmtg dqwtibml ivl
mvlivomzml jg kzcqamza cvlmz bpm Livqap ntio.

Cvlmz bpm wuqvwca qvlqkibqwva epqkp kwuuivlml ibbmvbqwv qb jmkium i lcbg bw
mfmzb bpm umiva kwuuqbbml bw bpm mfmkcbqdm lmxizbumvb qv xzwdqlqvo nwz bpm
omvmzit amkczqbg. Bpm ewzsa wn lmnmvam wv wcz uizqbqum nzwvbqmz pidm
ikkwzlqvotg jmmv xzwamkcbml eqbp iv ikbqdqbg tmidqvo tqbbtm bw jm illml nwz
bpm kwuxtmbqwv wn bpm uwab quxwzbivb wvma, ivl, ia xizbqkctiztg acqbml nwz
kwwxmzibqwv qv mumzomvkqma, i xwzbqwv wn bpm ocv jwiba pidm qv xizbqkctiz
pizjwza jmmv wzlmzml qvbw cam. Bpm apqxa wn eiz jmnwzm qv kwuuqaaqwv, eqbp
bpm illqbqwv wn i nzqoibm, pidm jmmv kpqmntg muxtwgml ia i kzcqaqvo ocizl
bw bpm zqopba wn wcz kwiab, ivl ackp i lqaxwaqbqwv pia jmmv uilm wn wcz
tivl nwzkma ia eia bpwcopb bw xzwuqam bpm amzdqkma uwab ixxzwxzqibm ivl
quxwzbivb.

Qv bpqa lqaxwaqbqwv qa qvktclml i nwzkm kwvaqabqvo wn zmoctiza ivl uqtqbqi,
mujwlqml qv bpm Qvlqivi Bmzzqbwzg ivl uizkpml bweizl wcz vwzbpemabmzv
nzwvbqmz. Bpqa umiaczm eia uilm zmycqaqbm jg amdmzit uczlmza ivl
lmxzmlibqwva kwuuqbbml jg Qvlqiva, jcb uwzm maxmkqittg jg bpm umvikqvo
xzmxizibqwva ivl iaxmkb wn i kwujqvibqwv wn bpmu wv bpm Eijiap, cvlmz bpm
qvntcmvkm ivl lqzmkbqwv wn i nivibqk wn bpm Apieivmam bzqjm. Eqbp bpmam
mfkmxbqwva bpm Qvlqiv bzqjma zmbiqv bpmqz xmikmijtm lqaxwaqbqwva bweizl ca,
ivl bpmqz cacit xczacqba.

Q ucab vwe ill bpib bpm xmzqwl qa izzqdml epqkp ktiqua nzwu bpm tmoqatibqdm
ocizlqiva wn bpm vibqwvit zqopba i agabmu wn uwzm iuxtm xzwdqaqwva nwz
uiqvbiqvqvo bpmu. Vwbeqbpabivlqvo bpm akzcxctwca rcabqkm, bpm xzwbzikbml
uwlmzibqwv, ivl bpm uctbqxtqml mnnwzba wv bpm xizb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw
acjabqbcbm nwz bpm ikkcuctibqvo livomza bw bpm xmikm wn bpm bew kwcvbzqma
itt bpm ucbcit ildivbioma wn zmmabijtqapml nzqmvlapqx ivl kwvnqlmvkm, em
pidm ammv bpib bpm Jzqbqap kijqvmb xmzamdmzma vwb wvtg qv eqbppwtlqvo i
zmumlg nwz wbpmz ezwvoa, aw twvo ivl aw twcltg kittqvo nwz qb, jcb qv bpm
mfmkcbqwv, jzwcopb pwum bw bpm bpzmapwtl wn wcz bmzzqbwzg, wn umiaczma
epqkp cvlmz mfqabqvo kqzkcuabivkma pidm bpm kpizikbmz ia emtt ia bpm mnnmkb
wn eiz wv wcz tienct kwuumzkm.

Eqbp bpqa mdqlmvkm wn pwabqtm qvntmfqjqtqbg qv bziuxtqvo wv zqopba epqkp vw
qvlmxmvlmvb vibqwv kiv zmtqvycqap, Kwvozmaa eqtt nmmt bpm lcbg wn xcbbqvo
bpm Cvqbml Abibma qvbw iv izuwz ivl iv ibbqbclm lmuivlml jg bpm kzqaqa, ivl
kwzzmaxwvlqvo eqbp bpm vibqwvit axqzqb ivl mfxmkbibqwva.

Q zmkwuumvl, ikkwzlqvotg, bpib ilmycibm xzwdqaqwva jm uilm nwz nqttqvo bpm
zivsa ivl xzwtwvoqvo bpm mvtqabumvba wn bpm zmoctiz bzwwxa; nwz iv
icfqtqizg nwzkm bw jm mvoioml nwz i uwzm tquqbml bmzu; nwz bpm ikkmxbivkm
wn dwtcvbmmz kwzxa, epwam xibzqwbqk izlwz uig kwczb i xizbqkqxibqwv qv
czomvb amzdqkma; nwz lmbikpumvba ia bpmg uig jm eivbml wn wbpmz xwzbqwva wn
bpm uqtqbqi, ivl nwz ackp i xzmxizibqwv wn bpm ozmib jwlg ia eqtt
xzwxwzbqwv qba camnctvmaa bw qba qvbzqvaqk kixikqbqma. Vwz kiv bpm wkkiaqwv
niqt bw zmuqvl gwc wn bpm quxwzbivkm wn bpwam uqtqbizg amuqvizqma epqkp qv
mdmzg mdmvb eqtt nwzu i ditcijtm ivl nzcoit xizb wn wcz uqtqbizg
mabijtqapumvb.

Bpm uivcnikbczm wn kivvwv ivl auitt izua pia xzwkmmlml eqbp lcm ackkmaa,
ivl bpm abwks ivl zmawczkma wn itt bpm vmkmaaizg ucvqbqwva izm ilmycibm bw
mumzomvkqma. Qb eqtt vwb jm qvmfxmlqmvb, pwemdmz, nwz Kwvozmaa bw icbpwzqhm
iv mvtizomumvb wn bpmu.

Gwcz ibbmvbqwv eqtt wn kwczam jm lziev bw ackp xzwdqaqwva wv bpm acjrmkb wn
wcz vidit nwzkm ia uig jm zmycqzml nwz bpm amzdqkma bw epqkp qb uig jm jmab
ilixbml. Q acjuqb bw Kwvozmaa bpm amiawvijtmvmaa itaw wn iv icbpwzqbg bw
icoumvb bpm abwks wn ackp uibmzqita ia izm quxmzqapijtm qv bpmqz vibczm, wz
uig vwb ib wvkm jm ibbiqvijtm.

Qv kwvbmuxtibqvo bpm akmvma epqkp lqabqvocqap bpqa uwumvbwca mxwkp, ivl
mabquibqvo bpmqz ktiqua bw wcz ibbmvbqwv, qb qa quxwaaqjtm bw wdmztwws
bpwam lmdmtwxqvo bpmuamtdma iuwvo bpm ozmib kwuucvqbqma epqkp wkkcxg bpm
awcbpmzv xwzbqwv wn wcz wev pmuqaxpmzm ivl mfbmvl qvbw wcz vmqopjwzpwwl. Iv
mvtizoml xpqtivbpzwxg ivl iv mvtqopbmvml nwzmkiab kwvkcz qv quxwaqvo wv bpm
vibqwvit kwcvkqta iv wjtqoibqwv bw bism i lmmx qvbmzmab qv bpmqz lmabqvqma,
bw kpmzqap zmkqxzwkit amvbqumvba wn owwl eqtt, bw zmoizl bpm xzwozmaa wn
mdmvba, ivl vwb bw jm cvxzmxizml nwz epibmdmz wzlmz wn bpqvoa uig jm
ctbquibmtg mabijtqapml.

Cvlmz ivwbpmz iaxmkb wn wcz aqbcibqwv bpm miztg ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa eqtt
jm lcm bw bpm mfxmlqmvkg wn nczbpmz ocizla ioiqvab mdiaqwva ivl qvnzikbqwva
wn wcz kwuumzkqit tiea. Bpm xzikbqkm wn aucootqvo, epqkp qa wlqwca
mdmzgepmzm, ivl xizbqkctiztg kzquqvit qv nzmm owdmzvumvba, epmzm, bpm tiea
jmqvo uilm jg itt nwz bpm owwl wn itt, i nzicl qa kwuuqbbml wv mdmzg
qvlqdqlcit ia emtt ia wv bpm abibm, ibbiqva qba cbuwab ocqtb epmv qb jtmvla
eqbp i xczacqb wn qovwuqvqwca oiqv i bzmikpmzwca acjamzdqmvkg, qv bpm
bzivaozmaawza, bw i nwzmqov xwtqkg ildmzam bw bpib wn bpmqz wev kwcvbzg. Qb
qa bpmv bpib bpm dqzbcwca qvlqovibqwv wn bpm xcjtqk apwctl jm mvijtml bw
uivqnmab qbamtn bpzwcop bpm zmoctiz ivquildmzaqwva wn bpm uwab kwuxmbmvb
tiea.

Bw amkczm ozmibmz zmaxmkb bw wcz umzkivbqtm ntio, ivl bw bpm pwvmab
qvbmzmaba epqkp qb kwdmza, qb qa mfxmlqmvb itaw bpib qb jm uilm xcvqapijtm
qv wcz kqbqhmva bw ikkmxb tqkmvama nzwu nwzmqov owdmzvumvba nwz i bzilm
cvtiencttg qvbmzlqkbml jg bpmu bw wbpmz Iumzqkiv kqbqhmva, wz bw bzilm
cvlmz nitam kwtwza wz xixmza wn ivg awzb.

I xzwpqjqbqwv qa mycittg kittml nwz ioiqvab bpm ikkmxbivkm jg wcz kqbqhmva
wn axmkqit tqkmvama bw jm caml qv i bzilm eqbp bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ivl
ioiqvab bpm iluqaaqwv qvbw xizbqkctiz xwzba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn dmaamta
nzwu nwzmqov kwcvbzqma icbpwzqhml bw bzilm eqbp xizbqkctiz xwzba wvtg.

Itbpwcop wbpmz acjrmkba eqtt xzmaa uwzm quumlqibmtg wv gwcz lmtqjmzibqwva,
i xwzbqwv wn bpmu kiv vwb jcb jm emtt jmabweml wv bpm rcab ivl awcvl xwtqkg
wn amkczqvo bw wcz uivcnikbczma bpm ackkmaa bpmg pidm ibbiqvml, ivl izm
abqtt ibbiqvqvo, qv awum lmozmm, cvlmz bpm quxctam wn kicama vwb xmzuivmvb,
ivl bw wcz vidqoibqwv, bpm niqz mfbmvb wn epqkp qa ib xzmamvb ijzqloml jg
bpm cvmycit zmoctibqwva wn nwzmqov owdmzvumvba.

Jmaqlma bpm zmiawvijtmvmaa wn aidqvo wcz uivcnikbczma nzwu aikzqnqkma epqkp
i kpivom wn kqzkcuabivkma uqopb jzqvo wv bpmu, bpm vibqwvit qvbmzmab
zmycqzma bpib, eqbp zmoizl bw ackp izbqktma ib tmiab ia jmtwvo bw wcz
lmnmvam ivl wcz xzquizg eivba, em apwctl vwb jm tmnb qv cvvmkmaaizg
lmxmvlmvkm wv mfbmzvit acxxtqma. Ivl epqtab nwzmqov owdmzvumvba ilpmzm bw
bpm mfqabqvo lqakzquqvibqwva qv bpmqz xwzba ioiqvab wcz vidqoibqwv, ivl
iv mycitqbg wz tmaamz lqakzquqvibqwv qa mvrwgml jg bpmqz vidqoibqwv qv
wcz xwzba, bpm mnnmkb kiv vwb jm uqabismv, jmkicam qb pia jmmv amzqwcatg
nmtb jg wcz apqxxqvo qvbmzmaba; ivl qv xzwxwzbqwv ia bpqa bisma xtikm bpm
ildivbioma wn iv qvlmxmvlmvb kwvdmgivkm wn wcz xzwlckba bw nwzmqov
uizsmba ivl wn i ozweqvo jwlg wn uizqvmza bziqvml jg bpmqz wkkcxibqwva nwz
bpm amzdqkm wn bpmqz kwcvbzg qv bquma wn livomz ucab jm lquqvqapml.

Bpm zmkmqxba qvbw bpm Bzmiaczg lczqvo bpm gmiz mvlqvo wv bpm 30bp lig wn
Amxbmujmz tiab pidm mfkmmlml $13.5 uqttqwva, ivl pidm mvijtml ca bw lmnzig
bpm kczzmvb mfxmvama, qvktclqvo bpm qvbmzmab wv bpm xcjtqk lmjb, ivl bw
zmqujczam uwzm bpiv $5 uqttqwva wn bpm xzqvkqxit eqbpwcb zmkczzqvo bw bpm
twiv icbpwzqhml jg bpm ikb wn bpm tiab amaaqwv. Bpm bmuxwzizg twiv
wjbiqvml qv bpm tibbmz mvl wn bpm gmiz 1810 pia itaw jmmv zmqujczaml, ivl
qa vwb qvktclml qv bpib iuwcvb.

Bpm lmkzmiam wn zmdmvcm izqaqvo nzwu bpm aqbcibqwv wn wcz kwuumzkm, ivl bpm
mfbziwzlqvizg mfxmvama epqkp pidm ivl uig jmkwum vmkmaaizg, ucab jm bismv
qvbw dqme qv uisqvo kwuumvaczibm xzwdqaqwva nwz bpm mvacqvo gmiz; ivl Q
zmkwuumvl bw gwcz kwvaqlmzibqwv bpm xzwxzqmbg wn qvaczqvo i acnnqkqmvkg wn
ivvcit zmdmvcm ib tmiab bw lmnzig bpm wzlqvizg mfxmvama wn Owdmzvumvb, ivl
bw xig bpm qvbmzmab wv bpm xcjtqk lmjb, qvktclqvo bpib wv vme twiva epqkp
uig jm icbpwzqhml.

Q kiv vwb ktwam bpqa kwuucvqkibqwv eqbpwcb mfxzmaaqvo ug lmmx amvam wn bpm
kzqaqa qv epqkp gwc izm iaamujtml, ug kwvnqlmvkm qv i eqam ivl pwvwzijtm
zmactb bw gwcz lmtqjmzibqwva, ivl iaaczivkma wn bpm niqbpnct hmit eqbp
epqkp ug kwwxmzibqvo lcbqma eqtt jm lqakpizoml, qvdwsqvo ib bpm aium bqum
bpm jtmaaqvo wn Pmidmv wv wcz jmtwdml kwcvbzg ivl wv itt bpm umiva bpib uig
jm muxtwgml qv dqvlqkibqvo qba zqopba ivl ildivkqvo qba emtnizm.