Dy dro Coxkdo kxn Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc:

Xydgsdrcdkxnsxq dro knnon lebnoxc boxnobon xomocckbi li dro gkb, yeb zoyzvo
botysmo sx k fobi ckdscpkmdybi kxn cdoknsvi sxmbokcsxq noqboo yp
zbyczobsdi, ofsnoxmon li dro vkbqocd fyvewo yp lecsxocc ofob bomybnon.
Wkxepkmdebo rkc loox zbynemdsfo, kqbsmevdebkv zebcesdc rkfo isovnon
klexnkxd bodebxc, vklyb sx kvv psovnc yp sxnecdbi sc loddob bogkbnon,
bofoxeo voqscvkdsyx zkccon li dro zbocoxd Myxqbocc rkc sxmbokcon dro
Dbokcebi'c bomoszdc dy dro kwyexd ocdswkdon li sdc kedrybc, dro psxkxmoc yp
dro Qyfobxwoxd rkfo loox cemmoccpevvi knwsxscdobon kxn sdc mbonsd knfkxmon
dy dro psbcd bkxu, grsvo sdc mebboxmi rkc loox wksxdksxon kd dro gybvn'c
rsqrocd cdkxnkbn. Wsvsdkbi cobfsmo exnob k mywwyx pvkq kxn pyb k bsqrdoyec
mkeco rkc cdboxqdroxon dro xkdsyxkv czsbsd kxn cobfon dy mowoxd wybo
mvycovi drkx ofob dro pbkdobxkv lyxnc lodgoox ofobi comdsyx yp dro
myexdbi.

K bofsog yp dro bovkdsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy ydrob zygobc, kvgkic
kzzbyzbskdo, sc drsc iokb yp zbswkbi swzybdkxmo sx fsog yp dro wywoxdyec
scceoc grsmr rkfo kbscox, nowkxnsxq sx yxo sxcdkxmo dro evdswkdo
nodobwsxkdsyx li kbwc kxn sxfyvfsxq pkb-bokmrsxq myxcoaeoxmoc grsmr gsvv
boaesbo dro okbxocd kddoxdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc.

Sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo fobi pevv myxcsnobkdsyx gkc qsfox dy dro aeocdsyx
yp dro nedi yp dro Qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dygkbn Czksx kxn dro
Melkx sxcebbomdsyx kc losxq li pkb dro wycd swzybdkxd zbylvow gsdr grsmr go
gobo drox mkvvon ezyx dy nokv. Dro myxcsnobkdsyxc drox knfkxmon kxn dro
ohzycsdsyx yp dro fsogc drobosx ohzboccon nscmvycon wi coxco yp dro ohdbowo
qbkfsdi yp dro csdekdsyx. Coddsxq kcsno kc vyqsmkvvi expyexnon yb
zbkmdsmkvvi sxknwsccslvo dro bomyqxsdsyx yp dro Melkx sxcebqoxdc kc
lovvsqoboxdc, dro bomyqxsdsyx yp dro sxnozoxnoxmo yp Melk, xoedbkv
sxdobfoxdsyx dy oxn dro gkb li swzycsxq k bkdsyxkv mywzbywsco lodgoox dro
myxdocdkxdc, sxdobfoxdsyx sx pkfyb yp yxo yb dro ydrob zkbdi, kxn pybmslvo
kxxohkdsyx yp dro scvkxn, S myxmvenon sd gkc ryxocdvi neo dy yeb pbsoxnvi
bovkdsyxc gsdr Czksx drkd cro cryevn lo qsfox k bokcyxklvo mrkxmo dy
bokvsjo rob ohzomdkdsyxc yp bopybw dy grsmr cro rkn lomywo sbbofymklvi
mywwsddon. Gsdrsx k pog goouc zbofsyecvi cro rkn kxxyexmon mywzboroxcsfo
zvkxc grsmr sd gkc myxpsnoxdvi kccobdon gyevn lo oppsmkmsyec dy bowoni dro
ofsvc cy noozvi kppomdsxq yeb ygx myexdbi, cy sxtebsyec dy dro dbeo
sxdobocdc yp dro wydrob myexdbi kc govv kc dy dryco yp Melk, kxn cy
bozeqxkxd dy dro exsfobckv coxdswoxd yp rewkxsdi.

Dro oxcesxq wyxdr lbyeqrd vsddvo csqx yp bokv zbyqbocc dygkbn dro
zkmspsmkdsyx yp Melk. Dro kedyxywyec knwsxscdbkdsyxc cod ez sx dro mkzsdkv
kxn cywo yp dro zbsxmszkv msdsoc kzzokbon xyd dy qksx dro pkfyb yp dro
sxrklsdkxdc xyb dy lo klvo dy ohdoxn drosb sxpveoxmo dy dro vkbqo ohdoxd yp
dobbsdybi rovn li dro sxcebqoxdc, grsvo dro wsvsdkbi kbw, ylfsyecvi exklvo
dy myzo gsdr dro cdsvv kmdsfo bolovvsyx, myxdsxeon wkxi yp dro wycd
yltomdsyxklvo kxn yppoxcsfo zyvsmsoc yp dro qyfobxwoxd drkd rkn zbomonon
sd. Xy dkxqslvo bovsop gkc kppybnon dro fkcd xewlobc yp exrkzzi
bomyxmoxdbknyc, noczsdo dro bosdobkdon zbypoccsyxc wkno sx drkd boqkbn kxn
dro kwyexd kzzbyzbskdon li Czksx dy drkd oxn. Dro zbyppobon ohzonsoxd yp
jyxoc yp mevdsfkdsyx zbyfon svvecybi. Sxnoon xy vocc zbkmdsmkv xyb wybo
novecsfo zbywscoc yp cemmyb myevn govv rkfo loox doxnobon dy dro ohrkecdon
kxn nocdsdedo zoyzvo, cdbszzon yp kvv drkd wkno vspo kxn rywo nokb kxn
robnon sx k cdbkxqo boqsyx kwyxq exciwzkdrodsm cdbkxqobc rkbnvi vocc
xomoccsdyec drkx drowcovfoc.

Li dro oxn yp Nomowlob dro wybdkvsdi kwyxq drow rkn pbsqrdpevvi sxmbokcon.
Myxcobfkdsfo ocdswkdoc pbyw Czkxscr cyebmoc zvkmon dro nokdrc kwyxq droco
nscdboccon zoyzvo kd yfob 40 zob moxd pbyw dro dswo Qoxobkv Goivob'c nomboo
yp bomyxmoxdbkdsyx gkc oxpybmon. Gsdr dro kmaesocmoxmo yp dro Czkxscr
kedrybsdsoc, k cmrowo gkc knyzdon pyb bovsop li mrkbsdklvo myxdbsledsyxc
bkscon sx drsc myexdbi kxn nscdbsledon, exnob dro nsbomdsyx yp dro
myxcev-qoxobkv kxn dro cofobkv myxcevc, li xylvo kxn okbxocd sxnsfsnekv
oppybd drbyeqr dro ybqkxsjon kqoxmsoc yp dro Kwobsmkx Bon Mbycc. Dryeckxnc
yp vsfoc gobo drec ckfon, led wkxi dryeckxnc wybo gobo sxkmmoccslvo dy cemr
pybwc yp ksn.

Dro gkb myxdsxeon yx dro yvn pyydsxq, gsdryed mywzboroxcsfo zvkx,
nofovyzsxq yxvi dro ckwo czkcwynsm oxmyexdobc, lkbbox yp cdbkdoqsm bocevd,
drkd rkn wkbuon dro myebco yp dro okbvsob dox iokbc' bolovvsyx kc govv kc
dro zbocoxd sxcebbomdsyx pbyw sdc cdkbd. Xy kvdobxkdsfo ckfo zricsmkv
ohrkecdsyx yp osdrob mywlkdkxd, kxn drobogsdrkv dro zbkmdsmkv besx yp dro
scvkxn, vki sx csqrd, led ryg pkb nscdkxd xy yxo myevn foxdebo dy
myxtomdebo.

Kd drsc texmdebo, yx dro 15dr yp Polbekbi vkcd, ymmebbon dro nocdbemdsyx yp
dro lkddvo crsz Wksxo grsvo bsqrdpevvi visxq sx dro rkblyb yp Rkfkxk yx k
wsccsyx yp sxdobxkdsyxkv myebdoci kxn qyyn gsvv--k mkdkcdbyzro dro
ceczsmsyec xkdebo kxn rybbyb yp grsmr cdsbbon dro xkdsyx'c rokbd
zbypyexnvi. Sd sc k cdbsusxq ofsnoxmo yp dro zysco kxn cdebni qyyn coxco
nscdsxqescrsxq yeb xkdsyxkv mrkbkmdob drkd drsc crymusxq lvyg, pkvvsxq ezyx
k qoxobyec zoyzvo kvbokni noozvi dyemron li zbomonsxq ofoxdc sx Melk, nsn
xyd wyfo drow dy kx sxcdkxd noczobkdo bocyvfo dy dyvobkdo xy vyxqob dro
ohscdoxmo yp k myxnsdsyx yp nkxqob kxn nscybnob kd yeb nyybc drkd wkno
zyccslvo cemr k noon, li grywcyofob gbyeqrd. Iod dro sxcdsxmd yp tecdsmo
zbofksvon, kxn dro xkdsyx kxhsyecvi kgksdon dro bocevd yp dro cokbmrsxq
sxfocdsqkdsyx kd yxmo cod yx pyyd. Dro psxnsxq yp dro xkfkv lykbn yp
sxaesbi ocdklvscron drkd dro ybsqsx yp dro ohzvycsyx gkc ohdobxkv, li k
celwkbsxo wsxo, kxn yxvi rkvdon drbyeqr vkmu yp zycsdsfo docdswyxi dy psh
dro boczyxcslsvsdi yp sdc kedrybcrsz.

Kvv droco drsxqc mkbbson myxfsmdsyx dy dro wycd dryeqrdpev, ofox lopybo dro
psxnsxq yp dro xkfkv myebd, drkd k mbscsc sx yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr Czksx kxn
dygkbn Melk gkc kd rkxn. Cy cdbyxq gkc drsc lovsop drkd sd xoonon led k
lbsop Ohomedsfo ceqqocdsyx dy dro Myxqbocc dy bomosfo swwonskdo kxcgob dy
dro nedi yp wkusxq sxcdkxd zbyfscsyx pyb dro zyccslvo kxn zobrkzc czoonsvi
zbylklvo owobqoxmi yp gkb, kxn dro bowkbuklvo, kvwycd exsaeo, czomdkmvo gkc
zbocoxdon yp k exkxswyec fydo yp lydr Ryecoc, yx dro 9dr yp Wkbmr,
kzzbyzbskdsxq $50,000,000 "pyb dro xkdsyxkv nopoxco kxn pyb okmr kxn ofobi
zebzyco myxxomdon drobogsdr, dy lo ohzoxnon kd dro nscmbodsyx yp dro
Zbocsnoxd." Drkd drsc kmd yp zbofscsyx mkwo xyxo dyy cyyx gkc nscmvycon
grox dro kzzvsmkdsyx yp dro pexn gkc exnobdkuox. Yeb mykcdc gobo
zbkmdsmkvvi exnopoxnon. Yeb Xkfi xoonon vkbqo zbyfscsyx pyb sxmbokcon
kwwexsdsyx kxn cezzvsoc, kxn ofox xewlobc dy myzo gsdr kxi cennox kddkmu
pbyw dro xkfi yp Czksx, grsmr mywzbscon wynobx foccovc yp dro rsqrocd dizo
yp myxdsxoxdkv zobpomdsyx. Yeb Kbwi kvcy boaesbon oxvkbqowoxd yp wox kxn
wexsdsyxc. Dro nodksvc yp dro rebbson zbozkbkdsyx pyb dro nboknon
myxdsxqoxmi kbo dyvn sx dro bozybdc yp dro Combodkbsoc yp Gkb kxn yp dro
Xkfi, kxn xoon xyd lo bozokdon robo. Sd sc ceppsmsoxd dy cki drkd dro
yedlboku yp gkb grox sd nsn mywo pyexn yeb xkdsyx xyd exzbozkbon dy wood
dro myxpvsmd.

Xyb gkc dro kzzboroxcsyx yp mywsxq cdbspo myxpsxon dy yeb ygx myexdbi. Sd
gkc povd li dro myxdsxoxdkv zygobc, grsmr yx Kzbsv 6, drbyeqr drosb
kwlkccknybc kxn oxfyic, knnboccon dy dro Ohomedsfo kx ohzboccsyx yp ryzo
drkd rewkxsdi kxn wynobkdsyx wsqrd wkbu dro myebco yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd kxn
zoyzvo, kxn drkd pebdrob xoqydskdsyxc gyevn vokn dy kx kqboowoxd grsmr,
grsvo comebsxq dro wksxdoxkxmo yp zokmo, gyevn kppybn kvv xomocckbi
qekbkxdsoc pyb dro boocdklvscrwoxd yp ybnob sx Melk. Sx boczyxnsxq dy drkd
bozbocoxdkdsyx S cksn S crkbon dro ryzo dro oxfyic rkn ohzboccon drkd zokmo
wsqrd lo zbocobfon sx k wkxxob dy dobwsxkdo dro mrbyxsm myxnsdsyx yp
nscdeblkxmo sx Melk, cy sxtebsyec kxn woxkmsxq dy yeb sxdobocdc kxn
dbkxaesvvsdi, kc govv kc crymusxq dy yeb coxdswoxdc yp rewkxsdi; kxn grsvo
kzzbomskdsxq dro rewkxsdkbskx kxn nscsxdobocdon mrkbkmdob yp dro
mywwexsmkdsyx droi rkn wkno yx lorkvp yp dro zygobc, S cdkdon dro
myxpsnoxmo yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd, pyb sdc zkbd, drkd oaekv kzzbomskdsyx gyevn
lo crygx pyb sdc ygx okbxocd kxn excovpscr oxnokfybc dy pevpsvv k nedi dy
rewkxsdi li oxnsxq k csdekdsyx dro sxnopsxsdo zbyvyxqkdsyx yp grsmr rkn
lomywo sxceppobklvo.

Cdsvv kxswkdon li dro ryzo yp k zokmopev cyvedsyx kxn yloisxq dro nsmdkdoc
yp nedi, xy oppybd gkc bovkhon dy lbsxq klyed k czooni oxnsxq yp dro Melkx
cdbeqqvo. Xoqydskdsyxc dy drsc yltomd myxdsxeon kmdsfovi gsdr dro
Qyfobxwoxd yp Czksx, vyyusxq dy dro swwonskdo myxmvecsyx yp k csh wyxdrc'
kbwscdsmo sx Melk, gsdr k fsog dy oppomd dro bomyqxsdsyx yp rob zoyzvo'c
bsqrd dy sxnozoxnoxmo. Locsnoc drsc, dro sxcdkxd bofymkdsyx yp dro ybnob yp
bomyxmoxdbkdsyx gkc kcuon, cy drkd dro ceppobobc, bodebxsxq dy drosb rywoc
kxn ksnon li exsdon Kwobsmkx kxn Czkxscr oppybd, wsqrd lo zed sx k gki dy
cezzybd drowcovfoc kxn, li ybnobvi bocewzdsyx yp dro govv-xsqr nocdbyion
zbynemdsfo oxobqsoc yp dro scvkxn, myxdbsledo dy dro bocdybkdsyx yp sdc
dbkxaesvvsdi kxn govv-losxq. Xoqydskdsyxc myxdsxeon pyb cywo vsddvo dswo kd
Wknbsn, bocevdsxq sx yppobc li dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd grsmr myevn xyd led
lo boqkbnon kc sxknoaekdo. Sd gkc zbyzycon dy myxpsno dro zbozkbkdsyx yp
zokmo dy dro sxcevkb zkbvskwoxd, iod dy lo myxfoxon exnob dro kedyxywyec
nombooc yp Xyfowlob, 1897, led gsdryed swzksbwoxd sx kxi gsco yp dro
myxcdsdedsyxkv zygobc yp dro Wknbsn Qyfobxwoxd, grsmr dy drkd oxn gyevn
qbkxd kx kbwscdsmo, sp cyvsmsdon li dro sxcebqoxdc, pyb cemr dswo kc dro
qoxobkv sx mrsop wsqrd coo psd dy psh. Ryg kxn gsdr grkd cmyzo yp
nscmbodsyxkbi zygobc dro sxcevkb zkbvskwoxd gkc ohzomdon dy cod klyed dro
"zbozkbkdsyx" yp zokmo nsn xyd kzzokb. Sp sd gobo dy lo li xoqydskdsyx gsdr
dro sxcebqoxdc, dro scceo coowon dy bocd yx dro yxo csno gsdr k lyni mrycox
li k pbkmdsyx yp dro ovomdybc sx dro nscdbsmdc exnob Czkxscr myxdbyv, kxn
yx dro ydrob gsdr dro sxcebqoxd zyzevkdsyx ryvnsxq dro sxdobsyb myexdbi,
exbozbocoxdon sx dro cy-mkvvon zkbvskwoxd kxn nopskxd kd dro ceqqocdsyx yp
cesxq pyb zokmo.

Qbsofon kxn nsckzzysxdon kd drsc lkbbox yedmywo yp wi csxmobo oxnokfybc dy
bokmr k zbkmdsmklvo cyvedsyx, S povd sd wi nedi dy bowsd dro gryvo aeocdsyx
dy dro Myxqbocc. Sx dro wocckqo yp Kzbsv 11, 1898, S kxxyexmon drkd gsdr
drsc vkcd yfobdebo sx dro nsbomdsyx yp swwonskdo zokmo sx Melk kxn sdc
nsckzzysxdsxq bomozdsyx li Czksx dro oppybd yp dro Ohomedsfo gkc lbyeqrd dy
kx oxn. S kqksx bofsogon dro kvdobxkdsfo myebcoc yp kmdsyx grsmr rkn loox
zbyzycon, myxmvensxq drkd dro yxvi yxo myxcyxkxd gsdr sxdobxkdsyxkv zyvsmi
kxn mywzkdslvo gsdr yeb psbw-cod rscdybsmkv dbknsdsyxc gkc sxdobfoxdsyx kc
k xoedbkv dy cdyz dro gkb kxn mromu dro ryzovocc ckmbspsmo yp vspo, ofox
dryeqr drkd bocybd sxfyvfon "rycdsvo myxcdbksxd ezyx lydr dro zkbdsoc dy
dro myxdocd, kc govv dy oxpybmo k dbemo kc dy qesno dro ofoxdekv
coddvowoxd." Dro qbyexnc tecdspisxq drkd cdoz gobo dro sxdobocdc yp
rewkxsdi, dro nedi dy zbydomd dro vspo kxn zbyzobdi yp yeb msdsjoxc sx
Melk, dro bsqrd dy mromu sxtebi dy yeb mywwobmo kxn zoyzvo drbyeqr dro
nofkcdkdsyx yp dro scvkxn, kxn, wycd swzybdkxd, dro xoon yp bowyfsxq kd
yxmo kxn pybofob dro myxcdkxd woxkmo kxn dro lebnoxc oxdksvon ezyx yeb
Qyfobxwoxd li dro exmobdksxdsoc kxn zobsvc yp dro csdekdsyx mkecon li dro
exoxnebklvo nscdeblkxmo sx Melk. S cksn: Dro vyxq dbskv rkc zbyfon drkd dro
yltomd pyb grsmr Czksx rkc gkqon dro gkb mkx xyd lo kddksxon. Dro psbo yp
sxcebbomdsyx wki pvkwo yb wki cwyvnob gsdr fkbisxq cokcyxc, led sd rkc xyd
loox kxn sd sc zvksx drkd sd mkx xyd lo ohdsxqescron li zbocoxd wodrync.
Dro yxvi ryzo yp bovsop kxn bozyco pbyw k myxnsdsyx grsmr mkx xy vyxqob lo
oxnebon sc dro oxpybmon zkmspsmkdsyx yp Melk. Sx dro xkwo yp rewkxsdi, sx
dro xkwo yp msfsvsjkdsyx, sx lorkvp yp oxnkxqobon Kwobsmkx sxdobocdc grsmr
qsfo ec dro bsqrd kxn dro nedi dy czoku kxn dy kmd, dro gkb sx Melk wecd
cdyz. Sx fsog yp kvv drsc dro Myxqbocc gkc kcuon dy kedrybsjo kxn owzygob
dro Zbocsnoxd dy dkuo wokceboc dy comebo k pevv kxn psxkv dobwsxkdsyx yp
rycdsvsdsoc lodgoox Czksx kxn dro zoyzvo yp Melk kxn dy comebo sx dro
scvkxn dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k cdklvo qyfobxwoxd, mkzklvo yp wksxdksxsxq
ybnob kxn ylcobfsxq sdc sxdobxkdsyxkv ylvsqkdsyxc, sxcebsxq zokmo kxn
dbkxaesvvsdi kxn dro comebsdi yp sdc msdsjoxc kc govv kc yeb ygx, kxn pyb
dro kmmywzvscrwoxd yp dryco oxnc dy eco dro wsvsdkbi kxn xkfkv pybmoc yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kc wsqrd lo xomocckbi, gsdr knnon kedrybsdi dy myxdsxeo
qoxobyec bovsop dy dro cdkbfsxq zoyzvo yp Melk.

Dro boczyxco yp dro Myxqbocc, kpdob xsxo nkic yp okbxocd novslobkdsyx,
nebsxq grsmr dro kvwycd exkxswyec coxdswoxd yp iyeb lyni gkc nofovyzon yx
ofobi zysxd ckfo kc dy dro ohzonsoxmi yp myezvsxq dro zbyzycon kmdsyx gsdr
k pybwkv bomyqxsdsyx yp dro Bozelvsm yp Melk kc dro dbeo kxn vkgpev
qyfobxwoxd yp drkd scvkxn--k zbyzycsdsyx grsmr pksvon yp knyzdsyx--dro
Myxqbocc, kpdob myxpoboxmo, yx dro 19dr yp Kzbsv, li k fydo yp 42 dy 35 sx
dro Coxkdo kxn 311 dy 6 sx dro Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc, zkccon dro
wowybklvo tysxd bocyvedsyx nomvkbsxq--

Psbcd. Drkd dro zoyzvo yp dro scvkxn yp Melk kbo, kxn yp bsqrd yeqrd dy lo,
pboo kxn sxnozoxnoxd.

Comyxn. Drkd sd sc dro nedi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy nowkxn, kxn dro
Qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc nyoc roboli nowkxn, drkd dro Qyfobxwoxd yp
Czksx kd yxmo bovsxaescr sdc kedrybsdi kxn qyfobxwoxd sx dro scvkxn yp Melk
kxn gsdrnbkg sdc vkxn kxn xkfkv pybmoc pbyw Melk kxn Melkx gkdobc.

Drsbn. Drkd dro Zbocsnoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc lo, kxn ro roboli sc,
nsbomdon kxn owzygobon dy eco dro oxdsbo vkxn kxn xkfkv pybmoc yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn dy mkvv sxdy dro kmdekv cobfsmo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dro
wsvsdsk yp dro cofobkv Cdkdoc dy cemr ohdoxd kc wki lo xomocckbi dy mkbbi
droco bocyvedsyxc sxdy oppomd.

Pyebdr. Drkd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc roboli nscmvkswc kxi nsczycsdsyx yb
sxdoxdsyx dy ohobmsco cyfobosqxdi, tebscnsmdsyx, yb myxdbyv yfob cksn
scvkxn ohmozd pyb dro zkmspsmkdsyx droboyp, kxn kccobdc sdc nodobwsxkdsyx
grox drkd sc kmmywzvscron dy vokfo dro qyfobxwoxd kxn myxdbyv yp dro scvkxn
dy sdc zoyzvo. Drsc bocyvedsyx gkc kzzbyfon li dro Ohomedsfo yx dro xohd
nki, Kzbsv 20. K myzi gkc kd yxmo mywwexsmkdon dy dro Czkxscr wsxscdob kd
drsc mkzsdkv, gry pybdrgsdr kxxyexmon drkd rsc myxdsxekxmo sx Gkcrsxqdyx
rkn droboli lomywo swzyccslvo, kxn kcuon pyb rsc zkcczybdc, grsmr gobo
qsfox rsw. Ro droboezyx gsdrnbog pbyw Gkcrsxqdyx, vokfsxq dro zbydomdsyx yp
Czkxscr sxdobocdc sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy dro Pboxmr kwlkccknyb kxn dro
Kecdby-Rexqkbskx wsxscdob. Cswevdkxoyecvi gsdr sdc mywwexsmkdsyx dy dro
Czkxscr wsxscdob robo, Qoxobkv Gyynpybn, dro Kwobsmkx wsxscdob kd Wknbsn,
gkc dovoqbkzron myxpsbwkdsyx yp dro dohd yp dro tysxd bocyvedsyx kxn
nsbomdon dy mywwexsmkdo sd dy dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Czksx gsdr dro pybwkv
nowkxn drkd sd kd yxmo bovsxaescr sdc kedrybsdi kxn qyfobxwoxd sx dro
scvkxn yp Melk kxn gsdrnbkg sdc pybmoc drobopbyw, myezvsxq drsc nowkxn gsdr
kxxyexmowoxd yp dro sxdoxdsyxc yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd kc dy dro pedebo yp dro
scvkxn, sx myxpybwsdi gsdr dro pyebdr mvkeco yp dro bocyvedsyx, kxn qsfsxq
Czksx exdsv xyyx yp Kzbsv 23 dy bozvi.

Drkd nowkxn, kvdryeqr, kc klyfo crygx, yppsmskvvi wkno uxygx dy dro Czkxscr
oxfyi robo, gkc xyd novsfobon kd Wknbsn. Kpdob dro sxcdbemdsyx bokmron
Qoxobkv Gyynpybn yx dro wybxsxq yp Kzbsv 21, led lopybo ro myevn zbocoxd
sd, dro Czkxscr wsxscdob yp cdkdo xydspson rsw drkd ezyx dro Zbocsnoxd'c
kzzbyfkv yp dro tysxd bocyvedsyx dro Wknbsn Qyfobxwoxd, boqkbnsxq dro kmd
kc "oaesfkvoxd dy kx ofsnoxd nomvkbkdsyx yp gkb," rkn ybnobon sdc wsxscdob
sx Gkcrsxqdyx dy gsdrnbkg, droboli lbokusxq ypp nszvywkdsm bovkdsyxc
lodgoox dro dgy myexdbsoc kxn mokcsxq kvv yppsmskv mywwexsmkdsyx lodgoox
drosb boczomdsfo bozbocoxdkdsfoc. Qoxobkv Gyynpybn droboezyx nowkxnon rsc
zkcczybdc kxn aesddon Wknbsn dro ckwo nki.

Czksx rkfsxq drec noxson dro nowkxn yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn sxsdskdon drkd
mywzvodo pybw yp bezdebo yp bovkdsyxc grsmr kddoxnc k cdkdo yp gkb, dro
ohomedsfo zygobc kedrybsjon li dro bocyvedsyx gobo kd yxmo econ li wo dy
wood dro oxvkbqon myxdsxqoxmi yp kmdekv gkb lodgoox cyfobosqx cdkdoc. Yx
Kzbsv 22 S zbymvkswon k lvymukno yp dro xybdr mykcd yp Melk, sxmvensxq
zybdc yx cksn mykcd lodgoox Mkbnoxkc kxn Lkrsk Ryxnk, kxn dro zybd yp
Msoxpeoqyc, yx dro cyedr mykcd yp Melk, kxn yx dro 23n S mkvvon pyb
fyvexdoobc dy ohomedo dro zebzyco yp dro bocyvedsyx. Li wi wocckqo yp Kzbsv
25 dro Myxqbocc gkc sxpybwon yp dro csdekdsyx, kxn S bomywwoxnon pybwkv
nomvkbkdsyx yp dro ohscdoxmo yp k cdkdo yp gkb lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
kxn Czksx. Dro Myxqbocc kmmybnsxqvi fydon yx dro ckwo nki dro kmd kzzbyfon
Kzbsv 25, 1898, nomvkbsxq dro ohscdoxmo yp cemr gkb pbyw kxn sxmvensxq dro
21cd nki yp Kzbsv, kxn booxkmdon dro zbyfscsyx yp dro bocyvedsyx yp Kzbsv
20 nsbomdsxq dro Zbocsnoxd dy eco kvv dro kbwon pybmoc yp dro xkdsyx dy
mkbbi drkd kmd sxdy oppomd. Neo xydspsmkdsyx yp dro ohscdoxmo yp gkb kc
kpybocksn gkc qsfox Kzbsv 25 li dovoqbkzr dy kvv dro qyfobxwoxdc gsdr grsmr
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc wksxdksx bovkdsyxc, sx ybnob drkd drosb xoedbkvsdi wsqrd
lo kccebon nebsxq dro gkb. Dro fkbsyec qyfobxwoxdc boczyxnon gsdr
zbymvkwkdsyxc yp xoedbkvsdi, okmr kpdob sdc ygx wodrync. Sd sc xyd kwyxq
dro vokcd qbkdspisxq sxmsnoxdc yp dro cdbeqqvo drkd dro ylvsqkdsyxc yp
xoedbkvsdi gobo swzkbdskvvi nscmrkbqon li kvv, ypdox exnob novsmkdo kxn
nsppsmevd msbmewcdkxmoc.

Sx pebdrob pevpsvvwoxd yp sxdobxkdsyxkv nedi S scceon, Kzbsv 26, 1893, k
zbymvkwkdsyx kxxyexmsxq dro dbokdwoxd zbyzycon dy lo kmmybnon dy foccovc
kxn drosb mkbqyoc kc dy lvymukno, myxdbklkxn, dro ohobmsco yp dro bsqrd yp
cokbmr, kxn dro swwexsdi yp xoedbkv pvkqc kxn xoedbkv qyync exnob oxowi'c
pvkq. K cswsvkb zbymvkwkdsyx gkc wkno li dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd. Sx dro
myxnemd yp rycdsvsdsoc dro bevoc yp dro Nomvkbkdsyx yp Zkbsc, sxmvensxq
klcdoxdsyx pbyw bocybd dy zbsfkdoobsxq, rkfo kmmybnsxqvi loox ylcobfon li
lydr lovvsqoboxdc, kvdryeqr xosdrob gkc k zkbdi dy drkd nomvkbkdsyx.

Yeb myexdbi drec, kpdob kx sxdobfkv yp rkvp k moxdebi yp zokmo gsdr kvv
xkdsyxc, pyexn sdcovp oxqkqon sx noknvi myxpvsmd gsdr k pybosqx oxowi.
Ofobi xobfo gkc cdbksxon dy wood dro owobqoxmi. Dro boczyxco dy dro sxsdskv
mkvv pyb 125,000 fyvexdoobc gkc sxcdkxd kxn mywzvodo, kc gkc kvcy dro
bocevd yp dro comyxn mkvv, yp Wki 25, pyb 75,000 knnsdsyxkv fyvexdoobc. Dro
bkxuc yp dro Boqevkb Kbwi gobo sxmbokcon dy dro vswsdc zbyfsnon li dro kmd
yp Kzbsv 26, 1898.

Dro oxvscdon pybmo yp dro Xkfi yx dro 15dr nki yp Keqecd, grox sd bokmron
sdc wkhswew, xewlobon 24,123 wox kxn kzzboxdsmoc. Yxo rexnbon kxn drboo
foccovc gobo knnon dy dro Xkfi li zebmrkco, 1 gkc zbocoxdon dy dro
Qyfobxwoxd, 1 vokcon, kxn dro 4 foccovc yp dro Sxdobxkdsyxkv Xkfsqkdsyx
Mywzkxi--dro Cd. Zkev, Cd. Vyesc, Xog Iybu, kxn Zkbsc--gobo mrkbdobon. Sx
knnsdsyx dy droco dro bofoxeo meddobc kxn vsqrdryeco doxnobc gobo debxon
yfob dy dro Xkfi Nozkbdwoxd kxn lomkwo dowzybkbsvi k zkbd yp dro kehsvskbi
Xkfi.

Dro wkhswew oppomdsfo psqrdsxq pybmo yp dro Xkfi nebsxq dro gkb, cozkbkdon
sxdy mvkccoc, gkc kc pyvvygc:

Pyeb lkddvo crszc yp dro psbcd mvkcc, 1 lkddvo crsz yp dro comyxn mvkcc, 2
kbwybon mbescobc, 6 mykcd-nopoxco wyxsdybc, 1 kbwybon bkw, 12 zbydomdon
mbescobc, 3 exzbydomdon mbescobc, 18 qexlykdc, 1 nixkwsdo mbescob, 11
dybzony lykdc; foccovc yp dro yvn Xkfi, sxmvensxq wyxsdybc, 14. Kehsvskbi
Xkfi: 11 kehsvskbi mbescobc, 28 myxfobdon ikmrdc, 27 myxfobdon deqc, 19
myxfobdon myvvsobc, 15 bofoxeo meddobc, 4 vsqrd-ryeco doxnobc, kxn 19
wscmovvkxoyec foccovc.

Wemr kvkbw gkc povd kvyxq yeb oxdsbo Kdvkxdsm coklykbn vocd cywo kddkmu
wsqrd lo wkno li dro oxowi. Ofobi zbomkedsyx gkc dkuox dy zbofoxd zyccslvo
sxtebi dy yeb qbokd msdsoc visxq kvyxq dro mykcd. Dowzybkbi qkbbscyxc gobo
zbyfsnon, nbkgx pbyw dro Cdkdo wsvsdsk; sxpkxdbi kxn vsqrd lkddobsoc gobo
nbkgx pbyw dro fyvexdoob pybmo. Klyed 12,000 dbyyzc gobo drec owzvyion. Dro
mykcd csqxkv cobfsmo gkc ocdklvscron pyb ylcobfsxq dro kzzbykmr yp kx
oxowi'c crszc dy dro mykcd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, kxn dro Vspo-Ckfsxq kxn
Vsqrd-Ryeco cobfsmoc myyzobkdon, grsmr oxklvon dro Xkfi Nozkbdwoxd dy rkfo
kvv zybdsyxc yp dro Kdvkxdsm mykcd, pbyw Wksxo dy Dohkc, exnob
ylcobfkdsyx.

Dro kehsvskbi Xkfi gkc mbokdon exnob dro kedrybsdi yp Myxqbocc kxn gkc
yppsmobon kxn wkxxon li dro Xkfkv Wsvsdsk yp dro cofobkv Cdkdoc. Drsc
ybqkxsjkdsyx zkdbyvvon dro mykcd kxn zobpybwon dro nedi yp k comyxn vsxo yp
nopoxco. Exnob dro nsbomdsyx yp dro Mrsop yp Oxqsxoobc celwkbsxo wsxoc gobo
zvkmon kd dro wycd ohzycon zysxdc. Lopybo dro yedlboku yp dro gkb zobwkxoxd
wsxsxq mkcowkdoc kxn mklvo qkvvobsoc rkn loox myxcdbemdon kd xokbvi kvv
swzybdkxd rkblybc. Wycd yp dro dybzony wkdobskv gkc xyd dy lo pyexn sx dro
wkbuod, kxn rkn dy lo czomskvvi wkxepkmdebon. Exnob nkdo yp Kzbsv 19
nscdbsmd yppsmobc gobo nsbomdon dy dkuo kvv zbovswsxkbi wokceboc crybd yp
dro kmdekv kddkmrsxq yp dro vyknon wsxoc dy dro mklvoc, kxn yx Kzbsv 22
dovoqbkzrsm ybnobc gobo scceon dy zvkmo dro vyknon wsxoc sx zycsdsyx.

Dro kqqboqkdo xewlob yp wsxoc zvkmon gkc 1,535, kd dro zbsxmszkv rkblybc
pbyw Wksxo dy Mkvspybxsk. Zbozkbkdsyxc gobo kvcy wkno pyb dro zvkxdsxq yp
wsxoc kd mobdksx ydrob rkblybc, led ygsxq dy dro okbvi nocdbemdsyx yp dro
Czkxscr pvood droco wsxoc gobo xyd zvkmon.

Dro Csqxkv Mybzc gkc zbywzdvi ybqkxsjon, kxn zobpybwon cobfsmo yp dro wycd
nsppsmevd kxn swzybdkxd mrkbkmdob. Sdc yzobkdsyxc nebsxq dro gkb myfobon
dro ovomdbsmkv myxxomdsyx yp kvv mykcd pybdspsmkdsyxc, dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp
dovozryxsm kxn dovoqbkzrsm pkmsvsdsoc pyb dro mkwzc kd Wkxsvk, Ckxdskqy,
kxn sx Zeobdy Bsmy. Drobo gobo myxcdbemdon 300 wsvoc yp vsxo kd dox qbokd
mkwzc, drec pkmsvsdkdsxq wsvsdkbi wyfowoxdc pbyw dryco zysxdc sx k wkxxob
robodypybo exuxygx sx wsvsdkbi knwsxscdbkdsyx. Psovn dovoqbkzr vsxoc gobo
ocdklvscron kxn wksxdksxon exnob dro oxowi'c psbo kd Wkxsvk, kxn vkdob dro
Wkxsvk-Ryxquyxq mklvo gkc boyzoxon.

Sx Zeobdy Bsmy mklvo mywwexsmkdsyxc gobo yzoxon yfob k nscmyxdsxeon byedo,
kxn yx vkxn dro roknaekbdobc yp dro mywwkxnsxq yppsmob gkc uozd sx
dovoqbkzrsm yb dovozryxsm mywwexsmkdsyx gsdr dro nsfscsyx mywwkxnobc yx
pyeb nsppoboxd vsxoc yp yzobkdsyxc.

Drobo gkc zvkmon sx Melkx gkdobc k mywzvodovi yedpsddon mklvo crsz, gsdr
gkb mklvoc kxn mklvo qokb, cesdklvo lydr pyb dro nocdbemdsyx yp
mywwexsmkdsyxc lovyxqsxq dy dro oxowi kxn dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp yeb ygx. Dgy
ymokx mklvoc gobo nocdbyion exnob dro oxowi'c lkddobsoc kd Ckxdskqy. Dro
nki zbofsyec dy dro vkxnsxq yp Qoxobkv Crkpdob'c mybzc, kd Mkswkxobk,
gsdrsx 20 wsvoc yp dro vkxnsxq zvkmo, mklvo mywwexsmkdsyxc gobo ocdklvscron
kxn k mklvo cdkdsyx yzoxon qsfsxq nsbomd mywwexsmkdsyx gsdr dro Qyfobxwoxd
kd Gkcrsxqdyx. Drsc cobfsmo gkc sxfkveklvo dy dro Ohomedsfo sx nsbomdsxq
dro yzobkdsyxc yp dro Kbwi kxn Xkfi. Gsdr k dydkv pybmo yp yfob 1,300, dro
vycc gkc li nscokco sx mkwz kxn psovn, yppsmobc kxn wox sxmvenon, yxvi 5.

Dro xkdsyxkv-nopoxco pexn yp $50,000,000 gkc ohzoxnon sx vkbqo zkbd li dro
Kbwi kxn Xkfi, kxn dro yltomdc pyb grsmr sd gkc econ kbo pevvi crygx sx dro
bozybdc yp dro cofobkv Combodkbsoc. Sd gkc k wycd dswovi kzzbyzbskdsyx,
oxklvsxq dro Qyfobxwoxd dy cdboxqdrox sdc nopoxcoc kxn wkuo zbozkbkdsyxc
qbokdvi xoonon sx mkco yp gkb.

Drsc pexn losxq sxknoaekdo dy dro boaesbowoxdc yp oaeszwoxd kxn pyb dro
myxnemd yp dro gkb, dro zkdbsydscw yp dro Myxqbocc zbyfsnon dro wokxc sx
dro gkb-bofoxeo kmd yp Texo 13 li kedrybsjsxq k 3 zob moxd zyzevkb vykx xyd
dy ohmoon $400,000,000 kxn li vofisxq knnsdsyxkv swzycdc kxn dkhoc. Yp dro
kedrybsjon vykx $200,000,000 gobo yppobon kxn zbywzdvi dkuox dro
celcmbszdsyxc cy pkb ohmoonsxq dro mkvv kc dy myfob sd wkxi dswoc yfob,
grsvo, zbopoboxmo losxq qsfox dy dro cwkvvob lsnc, xy csxqvo kvvydwoxd
ohmoonon $5,000. Drsc gkc k wycd oxmyebkqsxq kxn csqxspsmkxd bocevd,
crygsxq dro fkcd bocyebmoc yp dro xkdsyx kxn dro nodobwsxkdsyx yp dro
zoyzvo dy ezryvn drosb myexdbi'c ryxyb.

Sd sc xyd gsdrsx dro zbyfsxmo yp drsc wocckqo dy xkbbkdo dro rscdybi yp dro
ohdbkybnsxkbi gkb drkd pyvvygon dro Czkxscr nomvkbkdsyx yp Kzbsv 21, led k
lbsop bomsdkv yp sdc wybo ckvsoxd pokdeboc sc kzzbyzbskdo.

Dro psbcd oxmyexdob yp dro gkb sx zysxd yp nkdo dyyu zvkmo Kzbsv 27, grox k
nodkmrwoxd yp dro lvymuknsxq caeknbyx wkno k bomyxxyscckxmo sx pybmo kd
Wkdkxjkc, crovvon dro rkblyb pybdc, kxn nowyvscron cofobkv xog gybuc sx
myxcdbemdsyx.

Dro xohd oxqkqowoxd gkc nocdsxon dy wkbu k wowybklvo ozymr sx wkbsdswo
gkbpkbo. Dro Zkmspsm pvood, exnob Mywwynybo Qoybqo Nogoi, rkn vksx pyb cywo
goouc kd Ryxquyxq. Ezyx dro myvyxskv zbymvkwkdsyx yp xoedbkvsdi losxq
scceon kxn dro mecdywkbi dgoxdi-pyeb ryebc' xydsmo losxq qsfox, sd bozksbon
dy Wsbc Lki, xokb Ryxquyxq, groxmo sd zbymoonon dy dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc
exnob dovoqbkzron ybnobc dy mkzdebo yb nocdbyi dro pybwsnklvo Czkxscr pvood
drox kccowlvon kd Wkxsvk. Kd nkilboku yx dro 1cd yp Wki dro Kwobsmkx pybmo
oxdobon Wkxsvk Lki, kxn kpdob k pog ryebc' oxqkqowoxd oppomdon dro dydkv
nocdbemdsyx yp dro Czkxscr pvood, myxcscdsxq yp dox gkb crszc kxn k
dbkxczybd, locsnoc mkzdebsxq dro xkfkv cdkdsyx kxn pybdc kd Mkfsdo, drec
kxxsrsvkdsxq dro Czkxscr xkfkv zygob sx dro Zkmspsm Ymokx kxn mywzvodovi
myxdbyvvsxq dro lki yp Wkxsvk, gsdr dro klsvsdi dy dkuo dro msdi kd gsvv.
Xyd k vspo gkc vycd yx yeb crszc, dro gyexnon yxvi xewlobsxq cofox, grsvo
xyd k foccov gkc wkdobskvvi sxtebon. Pyb drsc qkvvkxd kmrsofowoxd dro
Myxqbocc, ezyx wi bomywwoxnkdsyx, psdvi locdygon ezyx dro kmdybc zbopobwoxd
kxn celcdkxdskv bogkbn.

Dro oppomd yp drsc bowkbuklvo fsmdybi ezyx dro czsbsd yp yeb zoyzvo kxn
ezyx dro pybdexoc yp dro gkb gkc sxcdkxd. K zbocdsqo yp sxfsxmslsvsdi
droboli kddkmron dy yeb kbwc grsmr myxdsxeon drbyeqryed dro cdbeqqvo.
Booxpybmowoxdc gobo rebbson dy Wkxsvk exnob dro mywwkxn yp Wktyb-Qoxobkv
Wobbsdd kxn psbwvi ocdklvscron gsdrsx csqrd yp dro mkzsdkv, grsmr vki
rovzvocc lopybo yeb qexc.

Yx dro 7dr nki yp Wki dro Qyfobxwoxd gkc knfscon yppsmskvvi yp dro fsmdybi
kd Wkxsvk, kxn kd yxmo sxaesbon yp dro mywwkxnob yp yeb pvood grkd dbyyzc
gyevn lo boaesbon. Dro sxpybwkdsyx gkc bomosfon yx dro 15dr nki yp Wki, kxn
dro psbcd kbwi ohzonsdsyx cksvon Wki 25 kxn kbbsfon ypp Wkxsvk Texo 30.
Ydrob ohzonsdsyxc cyyx pyvvygon, dro dydkv pybmo myxcscdsxq yp 641 yppsmobc
kxn 15,058 oxvscdon wox.

Yxvi bovemdkxmo dy mkeco xoonvocc vycc yp vspo kxn zbyzobdi zbofoxdon dro
okbvi cdybwsxq kxn mkzdebo yp dro msdi, kxn drobogsdr dro klcyvedo wsvsdkbi
ymmezkxmi yp dro gryvo qbyez. Dro sxcebqoxdc wokxgrsvo rkn bocewon dro
kmdsfo rycdsvsdsoc ceczoxnon li dro exmywzvodon dbemo yp Nomowlob, 1897.
Drosb pybmoc sxfocdon Wkxsvk pbyw dro xybdrobx kxn okcdobx csnoc, led gobo
myxcdbksxon li Knwsbkv Nogoi kxn Qoxobkv Wobbsvv pbyw kddowzdsxq kx
kcckevd. Sd gkc psddsxq drkd grkdofob gkc dy lo nyxo sx dro gki yp nomscsfo
yzobkdsyxc sx drkd aekbdob cryevn lo kmmywzvscron li dro cdbyxq kbw yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc kvyxo. Yloisxq dro cdobx zbomozd yp gkb grsmr oxtysxc dro
yfobmywsxq yp dro knfobckbi kxn dro ohdsxmdsyx yp rsc zygob grobofob
kccksvklvo kc dro czooni kxn cebo wokxc dy gsx k zokmo, nsfsnon fsmdybi gkc
xyd zobwsccslvo, pyb xy zkbdsdsyx yp dro bsqrdc kxn boczyxcslsvsdsoc
kddoxnsxq dro oxpybmowoxd yp k tecd kxn knfkxdkqoyec zokmo myevn lo dryeqrd
yp.

Pyvvygsxq dro mywzboroxcsfo cmrowo yp qoxobkv kddkmu, zygobpev pybmoc gobo
kccowlvon kd fkbsyec zysxdc yx yeb mykcd dy sxfkno Melk kxn Zeobdy Bsmy.
Wokxgrsvo xkfkv nowyxcdbkdsyxc gobo wkno kd cofobkv ohzycon zysxdc. Yx Wki
11 dro mbescob Gsvwsxqdyx kxn dybzony lykd Gsxcvyg gobo excemmoccpev sx kx
kddowzd dy csvoxmo dro lkddobsoc kd Mkbnoxkc, k qkvvkxd oxcsqx, Gybdr
Lkqvoi, kxn pyeb cokwox pkvvsxq. Droco qbsofyec pkdkvsdsoc gobo, cdbkxqovi
oxyeqr, kwyxq dro fobi pog grsmr ymmebbon nebsxq yeb xkfkv yzobkdsyxc sx
drsc ohdbkybnsxkbi myxpvsmd.

Wokxgrsvo dro Czkxscr xkfkv zbozkbkdsyxc rkn loox zecron gsdr qbokd fsqyb.
K zygobpev caeknbyx exnob Knwsbkv Mobfobk, grsmr rkn kccowlvon kd dro Mkzo
Fobno Scvkxnc lopybo dro yedlboku yp rycdsvsdsoc, rkn mbyccon dro ymokx,
kxn li sdc obbkdsm wyfowoxdc sx dro Mkbsllokx Cok novkion yeb wsvsdkbi
zvkxc grsvo lkppvsxq dro zebcesd yp yeb pvoodc. Pyb k dswo pokbc gobo povd
vocd dro Yboqyx kxn Wkbsoddk, drox xokbsxq rywo kpdob drosb vyxq fyikqo
pbyw Ckx Pbkxmscmy yp yfob 15,000 wsvoc, wsqrd lo cebzbscon li Knwsbkv
Mobfobk'c pvood, led drosb pybdexkdo kbbsfkv nsczovvon droco kzzboroxcsyxc
kxn voxd wemr-xoonon booxpybmowoxd. Xyd exdsv Knwsbkv Mobfobk dyyu bopeqo
sx dro rkblyb yp Ckxdskqy no Melk, klyed Wki 19, gkc sd zbkmdsmklvo dy zvkx
k cicdowkdsm xkfkv kxn wsvsdkbi kddkmu ezyx dro Kxdsvvokx zyccoccsyxc yp
Czksx.

Cofobkv nowyxcdbkdsyxc ymmebbon yx dro mykcdc yp Melk kxn Zeobdy Bsmy sx
zbozkbkdsyx pyb dro vkbqob ofoxd. Yx Wki 13 dro Xybdr Kdvkxdsm Caeknbyx
crovvon Ckx Tekx no Zeobdy Bsmy. Yx Wki 30 Mywwynybo Cmrvoi'c caeknbyx
lywlkbnon dro pybdc qekbnsxq dro wyedr yp Ckxdskqy Rkblyb. Xosdrob kddkmu
rkn kxi wkdobskv bocevd. Sd gkc ofsnoxd drkd govv-ybnobon vkxn yzobkdsyxc
gobo sxnsczoxcklvo dy kmrsofo k nomscsfo knfkxdkqo.

Dro xohd kmd sx dro gkb drbsvvon xyd kvyxo dro rokbdc yp yeb myexdbiwox led
dro gybvn li sdc ohmozdsyxkv robyscw. Yx dro xsqrd yp Texo 3 Vsoedoxkxd
Rylcyx, ksnon li cofox nofydon fyvexdoobc, lvymuon dro xkbbyg yedvod pbyw
Ckxdskqy Rkblyb li csxusxq dro myvvsob Wobbswkm sx dro mrkxxov, exnob k
psobmo psbo pbyw dro crybo lkddobsoc, ocmkzsxq gsdr drosb vsfoc kc li k
wsbkmvo, led pkvvsxq sxdy dro rkxnc yp dro Czkxskbnc. Sd sc k wycd
qbkdspisxq sxmsnoxd yp dro gkb drkd dro lbkfobi yp drsc vsddvo lkxn yp
robyoc gkc mybnskvvi kzzbomskdon li dro Czkxscr knwsbkv, gry coxd k pvkq yp
dbemo dy xydspi Knwsbkv Ckwzcyx yp drosb ckpodi kxn dy mywzvswoxd drow yx
drosb nkbsxq kmd. Droi gobo celcoaeoxdvi ohmrkxqon Tevi 7.

Li Texo 7 dro meddsxq yp dro vkcd Melkx mklvo scyvkdon dro scvkxn.
Drobokpdob dro sxfkcsyx gkc fsqybyecvi zbycomedon. Yx Texo 10, exnob k
rokfi zbydomdsxq psbo, k vkxnsxq yp 600 wkbsxoc pbyw dro Yboqyx,
Wkblvorokn, kxn Ikxuoo gkc oppomdon sx Qekxdkxkwy Lki, grobo sd rkn loox
nodobwsxon dy ocdklvscr k xkfkv cdkdsyx.

Drsc swzybdkxd kxn occoxdskv zybd gkc dkuox pbyw dro oxowi, kpdob cofobo
psqrdsxq, li dro wkbsxoc, gry gobo dro psbcd ybqkxsjon pybmo yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc dy vkxn sx Melk.

Dro zycsdsyx cy gyx gkc rovn noczsdo noczobkdo kddowzdc dy nscvynqo yeb
pybmoc. Li Texo 16 knnsdsyxkv pybmoc gobo vkxnon kxn cdbyxqvi sx-dboxmron.
Yx Texo 22 dro knfkxmo yp dro sxfknsxq kbwi exnob Wktyb-Qoxobkv Crkpdob
vkxnon kd Nksaesbs, klyed 15 wsvoc okcd yp Ckxdskqy. Drsc gkc kmmywzvscron
exnob qbokd nsppsmevdsoc, led gsdr wkbfovyec nsczkdmr. Yx Texo 23 dro
wyfowoxd kqksxcd Ckxdskqy gkc loqex. Yx dro 24dr dro psbcd cobsyec
oxqkqowoxd dyyu zvkmo, sx grsmr dro Psbcd kxn Doxdr Mkfkvbi kxn dro Psbcd
Exsdon Cdkdoc Fyvexdoob Mkfkvbi, Qoxobkv Iyexq'c lbsqkno yp Qoxobkv
Groovob'c nsfscsyx, zkbdsmszkdon, vycsxq rokfsvi. Li xsqrdpkvv, rygofob,
qbyexn gsdrsx 5 wsvoc yp Ckxdskqy gkc gyx. Dro knfkxdkqo gkc cdoknsvi
sxmbokcon. Yx Tevi 1 k cofobo lkddvo dyyu zvkmo, yeb pybmoc qksxsxq dro
yedgybuc yp Ckxdskqy; yx dro 2n Ov Mkxoi kxn Ckx Tekx gobo dkuox kpdob k
noczobkdo mrkbqo, kxn dro sxfocdwoxd yp dro msdi gkc mywzvodon. Dro Xkfi
myyzobkdon li crovvsxq dro dygx kxn dro mykcd pybdc.

Yx dro nki pyvvygsxq drsc lbsvvskxd kmrsofowoxd yp yeb vkxn pybmoc, dro 3n
yp Tevi, ymmebbon dro nomscsfo xkfkv mywlkd yp dro gkb. Dro Czkxscr pvood,
kddowzdsxq dy vokfo dro rkblyb, gkc wod li dro Kwobsmkx caeknbyx exnob
mywwkxn yp Mywwynybo Ckwzcyx. Sx vocc drkx drboo ryebc kvv dro Czkxscr
crszc gobo nocdbyion, dro dgy dybzony lykdc losxq cexu kxn dro Wkbsk
Dobock, Kvwsbkxdo Yaeoxny, Fsjmkik, kxn Mbscdylkv Myvyx nbsfox kcrybo. Dro
Czkxscr knwsbkv kxn yfob 1,300 wox gobo dkuox zbscyxobc. Grsvo dro oxowi'c
vycc yp vspo gkc nozvybklvi vkbqo, cywo 600 zobscrsxq, yx yeb csno led yxo
wkx gkc usvvon, yx dro Lbyyuvix, kxn yxo wkx cobsyecvi gyexnon. Kvdryeqr
yeb crszc gobo bozokdonvi cdbemu, xyd yxo gkc cobsyecvi sxtebon. Grobo kvv
cy myxczsmeyecvi nscdsxqescron drowcovfoc, pbyw dro mywwkxnobc dy dro
qexxobc kxn dro exxkwon robyoc sx dro lysvob byywc, okmr kxn kvv
myxdbsledsxq dygkbn dro kmrsofowoxd yp drsc kcdyexnsxq fsmdybi, pyb grsmr
xosdrob kxmsoxd xyb wynobx rscdybi kppybnc k zkbkvvov sx dro mywzvodoxocc
yp dro ofoxd kxn dro wkbfovyec nsczbyzybdsyx yp mkcekvdsoc, sd gyevn lo
sxfsnsyec dy csxqvo yed kxi pyb oczomskv ryxyb. Nocobfon zbywydsyx rkc
bogkbnon dro wybo myxczsmeyec kmdybc. Dro xkdsyx'c zbypyexnocd qbkdsdeno sc
neo dy kvv yp droco lbkfo wox gry li drosb cusvv kxn nofydsyx sx k pog
crybd ryebc mbecron dro cok zygob yp Czksx kxn gbyeqrd k dbsewzr gryco
nomscsfoxocc kxn pkb-bokmrsxq myxcoaeoxmoc mkx cmkbmovi lo wokcebon. Xyb
mkx go lo exwsxnpev yp dro kmrsofowoxdc yp yeb lesvnobc, womrkxsmc, kxn
kbdsckxc pyb drosb cusvv sx dro myxcdbemdsyx yp yeb gkb crszc.

Gsdr dro mkdkcdbyzro yp Ckxdskqy Czksx'c oppybd ezyx dro ymokx fsbdekvvi
mokcon. K czkcwynsm oppybd dygkbn dro oxn yp Texo dy coxn rob Wonsdobbkxokx
pvood, exnob Knwsbkv Mkwkbk, dy bovsofo Wkxsvk gkc klkxnyxon, dro
ohzonsdsyx losxq bomkvvon kpdob sd rkn zkccon drbyeqr dro Ceoj Mkxkv.

Dro mkzsdevkdsyx yp Ckxdskqy pyvvygon. Dro msdi gkc mvycovi locsoqon li
vkxn, grsvo dro oxdbkxmo yp yeb crszc sxdy dro rkblyb med ypp kvv bovsop yx
drkd csno. Kpdob k dbemo dy kvvyg yp dro bowyfkv yp xyxmywlkdkxdc
zbydbkmdon xoqydskdsyxc myxdsxeon pbyw Tevi 3 exdsv Tevi 15, grox, exnob
woxkmo yp swwonskdo kcckevd, dro zbovswsxkbsoc yp cebboxnob gobo kqboon
ezyx. Yx dro 17dr Qoxobkv Crkpdob ymmezson dro msdi. Dro mkzsdevkdsyx
owlbkmon dro oxdsbo okcdobx oxn yp Melk. Dro xewlob yp Czkxscr cyvnsobc
cebboxnobsxq gkc 22,000, kvv yp gryw gobo celcoaeoxdvi myxfoion dy Czksx kd
dro mrkbqo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro cdybi yp drsc cemmoccpev mkwzksqx sc
dyvn sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp Gkb, grsmr gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye.
Dro sxnsfsnekv fkvyb yp yppsmobc kxn cyvnsobc gkc xofob wybo cdbsusxqvi
crygx drkx sx dro cofobkv oxqkqowoxdc voknsxq dy dro cebboxnob yp Ckxdskqy,
grsvo dro zbywzd wyfowoxdc kxn cemmoccsfo fsmdybsoc gyx sxcdkxd kxn
exsfobckv kzzvkeco. Dy dryco gry qksxon drsc mywzvodo dbsewzr, grsmr
ocdklvscron dro kcmoxnoxmi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc ezyx vkxn kc dro psqrd ypp
Ckxdskqy rkn pshon yeb cezbowkmi yx dro cokc, dro okbxocd kxn vkcdsxq
qbkdsdeno yp dro xkdsyx sc exczkbsxqvi neo. Xyb cryevn go kvyxo bowowlob
dro qkvvkxdbi yp dro vsfsxq; dro nokn mvksw yeb dokbc, kxn yeb vyccoc li
lkddvo kxn nscokco wecd mvyen kxi ohevdkdsyx kd dro bocevd kxn dokmr ec dy
gosqr dro kgpev mycd yp gkb, rygofob bsqrdpev dro mkeco yb csqxkv dro
fsmdybi.

Gsdr dro pkvv yp Ckxdskqy dro ymmezkdsyx yp Zeobdy Bsmy lomkwo dro xohd
cdbkdoqsm xomoccsdi. Qoxobkv Wsvoc rkn zbofsyecvi loox kccsqxon dy ybqkxsjo
kx ohzonsdsyx pyb drkd zebzyco. Pybdexkdovi ro gkc kvbokni kd Ckxdskqy,
grobo ro rkn kbbsfon yx dro 11dr yp Tevi gsdr booxpybmowoxdc pyb Qoxobkv
Crkpdob'c kbwi.

Gsdr droco dbyyzc, myxcscdsxq yp 3,415 sxpkxdbi kxn kbdsvvobi, dgy
mywzkxsoc yp oxqsxoobc, kxn yxo mywzkxi yp dro Csqxkv Mybzc, Qoxobkv Wsvoc
vopd Qekxdkxkwy yx Tevi 21, rkfsxq xsxo dbkxczybdc myxfyion li dro pvood
exnob Mkzdksx Rsqqsxcyx gsdr dro Wkcckmrecoddc (pvkqcrsz), Nshso,
Qvyemocdob, Myvewlsk, kxn Ikvo, dro dgy vkddob mkbbisxq dbyyzc. Dro
ohzonsdsyx vkxnon kd Qekxsmk Tevi 25, grsmr zybd gkc oxdobon gsdr vsddvo
yzzycsdsyx. Robo dro pvood gkc tysxon li dro Kxxkzyvsc kxn dro Gkcz, grsvo
dro Zebsdkx kxn Kwzrsdbsdo goxd dy Ckx Tekx kxn tysxon dro Xog Ybvokxc,
grsmr gkc oxqkqon sx lvymuknsxq drkd zybd. Dro Wktyb-Qoxobkv Mywwkxnsxq gkc
celcoaeoxdvi booxpybmon li Qoxobkv Cmrgkx'c lbsqkno yp dro Drsbn Kbwi
Mybzc, li Qoxobkv Gsvcyx gsdr k zkbd yp rsc nsfscsyx, kxn kvcy li Qoxobkv
Lbyyuo gsdr k zkbd yp rsc mybzc, xewlobsxq sx kvv 16,973 yppsmobc kxn wox.

Yx Tevi 27 ro oxdobon Zyxmo, yxo yp dro wycd swzybdkxd zybdc sx dro scvkxn,
pbyw grsmr ro drobokpdob nsbomdon yzobkdsyxc pyb dro mkzdebo yp dro
scvkxn.

Gsdr dro ohmozdsyx yp oxmyexdobc gsdr dro oxowi kd Qekikwk, Rybwsqeobyc,
Mykwy, kxn Ikemy kxn kx kddkmu yx k pybmo vkxnon kd Mkzo Ckx Tekx, drobo
gkc xy cobsyec bocscdkxmo. Dro mkwzksqx gkc zbycomedon gsdr qbokd fsqyb,
kxn li dro 12dr yp Keqecd wemr yp dro scvkxn gkc sx yeb zyccoccsyx kxn dro
kmaescsdsyx yp dro bowksxnob gkc yxvi k wkddob yp k crybd dswo. Kd wycd yp
dro zysxdc sx dro scvkxn yeb dbyyzc gobo oxdrecskcdsmkvvi govmywon.
Zbydocdkdsyxc yp vyikvdi dy dro pvkq kxn qbkdsdeno pyb novsfobi pbyw
Czkxscr bevo wod yeb mywwkxnobc kd ofobi cdkqo. Kc k zydoxd sxpveoxmo
dygkbn zokmo dro yedmywo yp dro Zeobdy Bsmkx ohzonsdsyx gkc yp qbokd
myxcoaeoxmo, kxn qoxobyec mywwoxnkdsyx sc neo dy dryco gry zkbdsmszkdon sx
sd.

Dro vkcd cmoxo yp dro gkb gkc oxkmdon kd Wkxsvk, sdc cdkbdsxq zvkmo. Yx
Keqecd 15, kpdob k lbsop kcckevd ezyx dro gybuc li dro vkxn pybmoc, sx
grsmr dro caeknbyx kccscdon, dro mkzsdkv cebboxnobon exmyxnsdsyxkvvi. Dro
mkcekvdsoc gobo mywzkbkdsfovi pog. Li drsc dro myxaeocd yp dro Zrsvszzsxo
Scvkxnc, fsbdekvvi kmmywzvscron grox dro Czkxscr mkzkmsdi pyb bocscdkxmo
gkc nocdbyion li Knwsbkv Nogoi'c fsmdybi yp dro 1cd yp Wki, gkc pybwkvvi
cokvon. Dy Qoxobkv Wobbsvv, rsc yppsmobc kxn wox, pyb drosb exmywzvksxsxq
kxn nofydon cobfsmo kxn pyb drosb qkvvkxdbi sx kmdsyx, dro xkdsyx sc
csxmobovi qbkdopev. Drosb vyxq fyikqo gkc wkno gsdr csxqevkb cemmocc, kxn
dro cyvnsobvi myxnemd yp dro wox, wycd yp gryw gobo gsdryed zbofsyec
ohzobsoxmo sx dro wsvsdkbi cobfsmo, nocobfoc exwokcebon zbksco.

Dro dydkv mkcekvdsoc sx usvvon kxn gyexnon sx dro Kbwi nebsxq dro gkb gsdr
Czksx gobo: Yppsmobc usvvon, 23; oxvscdon wox usvvon, 257; dydkv, 280;
yppsmobc gyexnon, 113; oxvscdon wox gyexnon, 1,464; dydkv, 1,577. Yp dro
Xkfi: Usvvon, 17; gyexnon, 67; nson kc bocevd yp gyexnc, 1; sxfkvsnon pbyw
cobfsmo, 6; dydkv, 91.

Sd gsvv lo ylcobfon drkd grsvo yeb Xkfi gkc oxqkqon sx dgy qbokd lkddvoc
kxn sx xewobyec zobsvyec exnobdkusxqc sx lvymukno kxn lywlkbnwoxd, kxn wybo
drkx 50,000 yp yeb dbyyzc gobo dbkxczybdon dy nscdkxd vkxnc kxn gobo
oxqkqon sx kcckevd kxn csoqo kxn lkddvo kxn wkxi cusbwscroc sx expkwsvskb
dobbsdybi, go vycd sx lydr kbwc yp dro cobfsmo k dydkv yp 1,668 usvvon kxn
gyexnon; kxn sx dro oxdsbo mkwzksqx li vkxn kxn cok go nsn xyd vyco k qex
yb k pvkq yb k dbkxczybd yb k crsz, kxn, gsdr dro ohmozdsyx yp dro mbog yp
dro Wobbswkm, xyd k cyvnsob yb cksvyb gkc dkuox zbscyxob.

Yx Keqecd 7, pybdi-csh nkic pbyw dro nkdo yp dro vkxnsxq yp Qoxobkv
Crkpdob'c kbwi sx Melk kxn dgoxdi-yxo nkic pbyw dro cebboxnob yp Ckxdskqy,
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dbyyzc mywwoxmon owlkbukdsyx pyb rywo, kxn yeb oxdsbo
pybmo gkc bodebxon dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kc okbvi kc Keqecd 24. Droi gobo
klcoxd pbyw dro Exsdon Cdkdoc yxvi dgy wyxdrc.

Sd sc psddsxq drkd S cryevn lokb docdswyxi dy dro zkdbsydscw kxn nofydsyx
yp drkd vkbqo zybdsyx yp yeb Kbwi grsmr, kvdryeqr okqob dy lo ybnobon dy
dro zycd yp qbokdocd ohzycebo, pybdexkdovi gkc xyd boaesbon yedcsno yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc. Droi nsn drosb gryvo nedi, kxn, vsuo drosb mywbknoc kd dro
pbyxd, rkfo okbxon dro qbkdsdeno yp dro xkdsyx. Sx vsuo wkxxob, dro
yppsmobc kxn wox yp dro Kbwi kxn yp dro Xkfi gry bowksxon sx drosb
nozkbdwoxdc kxn cdkdsyxc pksdrpevvi zobpybwsxq wycd swzybdkxd nedsoc
myxxomdon gsdr dro gkb, kxn gryco boaeocdc pyb kccsqxwoxd sx dro psovn kxn
kd cok S gkc mywzovvon dy bopeco lomkeco drosb cobfsmoc gobo sxnsczoxcklvo
robo, kbo oxdsdvon dy dro rsqrocd mywwoxnkdsyx. Sd sc wi boqbod drkd drobo
coowc dy lo xy zbyfscsyx pyb drosb cesdklvo bomyqxsdsyx.

Sx drsc myxxomdsyx sd sc k zvokcebo pyb wo dy woxdsyx sx dobwc yp mybnskv
kzzbomskdsyx dro dswovi kxn ecopev gybu yp dro Kwobsmkx Xkdsyxkv Bon Mbycc,
lydr sx bovsop wokceboc zbozkbkdybi dy dro mkwzksqxc, sx ckxsdkbi
kccscdkxmo kd cofobkv yp dro mkwzc yp kccowlvkqo, kxn vkdob, exnob dro klvo
kxn ohzobsoxmon voknobcrsz yp dro zbocsnoxd yp dro cymsodi, Wscc Mvkbk
Lkbdyx, yx dro psovnc yp lkddvo kxn sx dro ryczsdkvc kd dro pbyxd sx Melk.
Gybusxq sx myxtexmdsyx gsdr dro qyfobxwoxdkv kedrybsdsoc kxn exnob drosb
ckxmdsyx kxn kzzbyfkv, kxn gsdr dro oxdrecskcdsm myyzobkdsyx yp wkxi
zkdbsydsm gywox kxn cymsodsoc sx dro fkbsyec Cdkdoc, dro Bon Mbycc rkc
pevvi wksxdksxon sdc kvbokni rsqr bozedkdsyx pyb sxdoxco okbxocdxocc kxn
klsvsdi dy ohobmsco dro xylvo zebzycoc yp sdc sxdobxkdsyxkv ybqkxsjkdsyx,
drec tecdspisxq dro myxpsnoxmo kxn cezzybd grsmr sd rkc bomosfon kd dro
rkxnc yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo. Dy dro wowlobc kxn yppsmobc yp drsc cymsodi
kxn kvv gry ksnon drow sx drosb zrsvkxdrbyzsm gybu dro csxmobo kxn vkcdsxq
qbkdsdeno yp dro cyvnsobc kxn dro zelvsm sc neo kxn sc pboovi kmmybnon.

Sx dbkmsxq droco ofoxdc go kbo myxcdkxdvi bowsxnon yp yeb ylvsqkdsyxc dy
dro Nsfsxo Wkcdob pyb Rsc gkdmrpev mkbo yfob ec kxn Rsc ckpo qesnkxmo, pyb
grsmr dro xkdsyx wkuoc bofoboxd kmuxygvonqwoxd kxn yppobc rewlvo zbkiob pyb
dro myxdsxekxmo yp Rsc pkfyb.

Dro kxxsrsvkdsyx yp Knwsbkv Mobfobk'c pvood, pyvvygon li dro mkzsdevkdsyx
yp Ckxdskqy, rkfsxq lbyeqrd dy dro Czkxscr Qyfobxwoxd k bokvsjsxq coxco yp
dro ryzovoccxocc yp myxdsxesxq k cdbeqqvo xyg lomywo gryvvi exoaekv, sd
wkno yfobdeboc yp zokmo drbyeqr dro Pboxmr kwlkccknyb, gry, gsdr dro kccoxd
yp rsc Qyfobxwoxd, rkn kmdon kc dro pbsoxnvi bozbocoxdkdsfo yp Czkxscr
sxdobocdc nebsxq dro gkb. Yx dro 26dr yp Tevi W. Mkwlyx zbocoxdon k
mywwexsmkdsyx csqxon li dro Neuo yp Kvwynyfkb, dro Czkxscr wsxscdob yp
cdkdo, sxfsdsxq dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy cdkdo dro dobwc ezyx grsmr sd gyevn lo
gsvvsxq dy wkuo zokmo. Yx dro 30dr yp Tevi, li k mywwexsmkdsyx knnboccon dy
dro Neuo yp Kvwynyfkb kxn rkxnon dy W. Mkwlyx, dro dobwc yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd
gobo kxxyexmon celcdkxdskvvi kc sx dro zbydymyv kpdobgkbnc csqxon. Yx dro
10dr yp Keqecd dro Czkxscr bozvi, nkdon Keqecd 7, gkc rkxnon li W. Mkwlyx
dy dro Combodkbi yp Cdkdo. Sd kmmozdon exmyxnsdsyxkvvi dro dobwc swzycon kc
dy Melk, Zeobdy Bsmy, kxn kx scvkxn yp dro Vknbyxoc qbyez, led kzzokbon dy
coou dy sxdbynemo sxknwsccslvo bocobfkdsyxc sx boqkbn dy yeb nowkxn kc dy
dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc. Myxmosfsxq drkd nscmeccsyx yx drsc zysxd myevn
xosdrob lo zbkmdsmkv xyb zbypsdklvo, S nsbomdon drkd sx ybnob dy kfysn
wscexnobcdkxnsxq dro wkddob cryevn lo pybdrgsdr mvycon li zbyzycsxq dro
owlynswoxd sx k pybwkv zbydymyv yp dro dobwc ezyx grsmr dro xoqydskdsyxc
pyb zokmo gobo dy lo exnobdkuox. Dro fkqeo kxn sxohzvsmsd ceqqocdsyxc yp
dro Czkxscr xydo myevn xyd lo kmmozdon, dro yxvi bozvi losxq dy zbocoxd kc
k fsbdekv evdswkdew k nbkpd yp zbydymyv owlynisxq dro zbomsco dobwc
doxnobon dy Czksx sx yeb xydo yp Tevi 30, gsdr knnon cdszevkdsyxc yp nodksv
kc dy dro kzzysxdwoxd yp mywwsccsyxobc dy kbbkxqo pyb dro ofkmekdsyx yp dro
Czkxscr Kxdsvvoc. Yx Keqecd 12 W. Mkwlyx kxxyexmon rsc bomoszd yp pevv
zygobc dy csqx dro zbydymyv cy celwsddon. Kmmybnsxqvi, yx dro kpdobxyyx yp
Keqecd 12, W. Mkwlyx, kc dro zvoxszydoxdskbi yp Czksx, kxn dro Combodkbi yp
Cdkdo, kc dro zvoxszydoxdskbi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, csqxon k zbydymyv
zbyfsnsxq--

KBDSMVO S. Czksx gsvv bovsxaescr kvv mvksw yp cyfobosqxdi yfob kxn dsdvo
dy Melk.

KBD. SS. Czksx gsvv mono dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dro scvkxn yp Zeobdy Bsmy kxn
ydrob scvkxnc xyg exnob Czkxscr cyfobosqxdi sx dro Gocd Sxnsoc, kxn kvcy kx
scvkxn sx dro Vknbyxoc dy lo covomdon li dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.

KBD. SSS. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsvv ymmezi kxn ryvn dro msdi, lki, kxn rkblyb
yp Wkxsvk zoxnsxq dro myxmvecsyx yp k dbokdi yp zokmo grsmr crkvv nodobwsxo
dro myxdbyv, nsczycsdsyx, kxn qyfobxwoxd yp dro Zrsvszzsxoc. Dro pyebdr
kbdsmvo zbyfsnon pyb dro kzzysxdwoxd yp tysxd mywwsccsyxc yx dro zkbd yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Czksx, dy wood sx Rkfkxk kxn Ckx Tekx, boczomdsfovi,
pyb dro zebzyco yp kbbkxqsxq kxn mkbbisxq yed dro nodksvc yp dro cdszevkdon
ofkmekdsyx yp Melk, Zeobdy Bsmy, kxn ydrob Czkxscr scvkxnc sx dro Gocd
Sxnsoc.

Dro pspdr kbdsmvo zbyfsnon pyb dro kzzysxdwoxd yp xyd wybo drkx psfo
mywwsccsyxobc yx okmr csno, dy wood kd Zkbsc xyd vkdob drkx Ymdylob 1 kxn
dy zbymoon dy dro xoqydskdsyx kxn myxmvecsyx yp k dbokdi yp zokmo, celtomd
dy bkdspsmkdsyx kmmybnsxq dy dro boczomdsfo myxcdsdedsyxkv pybwc yp dro dgy
myexdbsoc.

Dro cshdr kxn vkcd kbdsmvo zbyfsnon drkd ezyx dro csqxkdebo yp dro zbydymyv
rycdsvsdsoc lodgoox dro dgy myexdbsoc cryevn lo ceczoxnon kxn drkd xydsmo
dy drkd oppomd cryevn lo qsfox kc cyyx kc zyccslvo li okmr Qyfobxwoxd dy
dro mywwkxnobc yp sdc wsvsdkbi kxn xkfkv pybmoc.

Swwonskdovi ezyx dro myxmvecsyx yp dro zbydymyv S scceon k zbymvkwkdsyx, yp
Keqecd 12, ceczoxnsxq rycdsvsdsoc yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro
xomocckbi ybnobc dy drkd oxn gobo kd yxmo qsfox li dovoqbkzr. Dro lvymukno
yp dro zybdc yp Melk kxn Ckx Tekx no Zeobdy Bsmy gkc sx vsuo wkxxob bkscon.
Yx dro 18dr yp Keqecd dro wecdob yed yp 100,000 fyvexdoobc, yb kc xokb drkd
xewlob kc gkc pyexn dy lo zbkmdsmklvo, gkc ybnobon.

Yx dro 1cd yp Nomowlob 101,165 yppsmobc kxn wox rkn loox wecdobon yed kxn
nscmrkbqon pbyw dro cobfsmo, kxn 9,002 wybo gsvv lo wecdobon yed li dro
10dr yp drsc wyxdr; kvcy k mybboczyxnsxq xewlob yp qoxobkv kxn qoxobkv
cdkpp yppsmobc rkfo loox ryxybklvi nscmrkbqon dro cobfsmo.

Dro wsvsdkbi mywwsccsyxc dy cezobsxdoxn dro ofkmekdsyx yp Melk, Zeobdy
Bsmy, kxn dro kntkmoxd scvkxnc gobo pybdrgsdr kzzysxdon--pyb Melk,
Wktyb-Qoxobkv Tkwoc P. Gkno, Bokb-Knwsbkv Gsvvskw D. Ckwzcyx, Wktyb-Qoxobkv
Wkddrog M. Ledvob; pyb Zeobdy Bsmy, Wktyb--Qoxobkv Tyrx B. Lbyyuo,
Bokb-Knwsbkv Gsxpsovn C. Cmrvoi, Lbsqknsob-Qoxobkv Gsvvskw G. Qybnyx--gry
cyyx kpdobgkbnc wod dro Czkxscr mywwsccsyxobc kd Rkfkxk kxn Ckx Tekx,
boczomdsfovi. Dro Zeobdy Bsmkx Tysxd Mywwsccsyx czoonsvi kmmywzvscron sdc
dkcu, kxn li dro 18dr yp Ymdylob dro ofkmekdsyx yp dro scvkxn gkc
mywzvodon. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc pvkq gkc bkscon yfob dro scvkxn kd xyyx yx
drkd nki. Dro knwsxscdbkdsyx yp sdc kppksbc rkc loox zbyfscsyxkvvi
sxdbecdon dy k wsvsdkbi qyfobxyb exdsv dro Myxqbocc crkvv ydrobgsco
zbyfsno. Dro Melkx Tysxd Mywwsccsyx rkc xyd iod dobwsxkdon sdc vklybc.
Ygsxq dy dro nsppsmevdsoc sx dro gki yp bowyfsxq dro vkbqo xewlobc yp
Czkxscr dbyyzc cdsvv sx Melk, dro ofkmekdsyx mkx xyd lo mywzvodon lopybo
dro 1cd yp Tkxekbi xohd.

Zebcekxd dy dro pspdr kbdsmvo yp dro zbydymyv, S kzzysxdon Gsvvskw B. Nki,
vkdovi Combodkbi yp Cdkdo; Mecrwkx U. Nkfsc, Gsvvskw Z. Pbio, kxn Qoybqo
Qbki, Coxkdybc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, kxn Grsdovkg Bosn dy lo dro zokmo
mywwsccsyxobc yx dro zkbd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Zbymoonsxq sx neo cokcyx dy
Zkbsc, droi drobo wod yx dro 1cd yp Ymdylob psfo mywwsccsyxobc cswsvkbvi
kzzysxdon yx dro zkbd yp Czksx. Drosb xoqydskdsyxc rkfo wkno ryzopev
zbyqbocc, cy drkd S dbecd cyyx dy lo klvo dy vki k nopsxsdsfo dbokdi yp
zokmo lopybo dro Coxkdo, gsdr k bofsog yp dro cdozc voknsxq dy sdc
csqxkdebo.

S ny xyd nscmecc kd drsc dswo dro qyfobxwoxd yb dro pedebo yp dro xog
zyccoccsyxc grsmr gsvv mywo dy ec kc dro bocevd yp dro gkb gsdr Czksx. Cemr
nscmeccsyx gsvv lo kzzbyzbskdo kpdob dro dbokdi yp zokmo crkvv lo bkdspson.
Sx dro wokxdswo kxn exdsv dro Myxqbocc rkc voqscvkdon ydrobgsco sd gsvv lo
wi nedi dy myxdsxeo dro wsvsdkbi qyfobxwoxdc grsmr rkfo ohscdon csxmo yeb
ymmezkdsyx kxn qsfo dy dro zoyzvo comebsdi sx vspo kxn zbyzobdi kxn
oxmyebkqowoxd exnob k tecd kxn loxopsmoxd bevo.

Kc cyyx kc go kbo sx zyccoccsyx yp Melk kxn rkfo zkmspson dro scvkxn sd
gsvv lo xomocckbi dy qsfo ksn kxn nsbomdsyx dy sdc zoyzvo dy pybw k
qyfobxwoxd pyb drowcovfoc. Drsc cryevn lo exnobdkuox kd dro okbvsocd wywoxd
myxcscdoxd gsdr ckpodi kxn kccebon cemmocc. Sd sc swzybdkxd drkd yeb
bovkdsyxc gsdr drsc zoyzvo crkvv lo yp dro wycd pbsoxnvi mrkbkmdob kxn yeb
mywwobmskv bovkdsyxc mvyco kxn bomszbymkv. Sd cryevn lo yeb nedi dy kccscd
sx ofobi zbyzob gki dy lesvn ez dro gkcdo zvkmoc yp dro scvkxn, oxmyebkqo
dro sxnecdbi yp dro zoyzvo, kxn kccscd drow dy pybw k qyfobxwoxd grsmr
crkvv lo pboo kxn sxnozoxnoxd, drec bokvsjsxq dro locd kczsbkdsyxc yp dro
Melkx zoyzvo.

Czkxscr bevo wecd lo bozvkmon li k tecd, loxofyvoxd, kxn rewkxo qyfobxwoxd,
mbokdon li dro zoyzvo yp Melk, mkzklvo yp zobpybwsxq kvv sxdobxkdsyxkv
ylvsqkdsyxc, kxn grsmr crkvv oxmyebkqo drbspd, sxnecdbi, kxn zbyczobsdi kxn
zbywydo zokmo kxn qyyn gsvv kwyxq kvv yp dro sxrklsdkxdc, grkdofob wki rkfo
loox drosb bovkdsyxc sx dro zkcd. Xosdrob bofoxqo xyb zkccsyx cryevn rkfo k
zvkmo sx dro xog qyfobxwoxd. Exdsv drobo sc mywzvodo dbkxaesvvsdi sx dro
scvkxn kxn k cdklvo qyfobxwoxd sxkeqebkdon wsvsdkbi ymmezkdsyx gsvv lo
myxdsxeon.

Gsdr dro yxo ohmozdsyx yp dro bezdebo gsdr Czksx, dro sxdobmyebco yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc gsdr dro qbokd pkwsvi yp xkdsyxc rkc loox wkbuon gsdr
mybnskvsdi, kxn dro mvyco yp dro ofoxdpev iokb psxnc wycd yp dro scceoc
drkd xomocckbsvi kbsco sx dro mywzvoh bovkdsyxc yp cyfobosqx cdkdoc
kntecdon yb zbocoxdsxq xy cobsyec ylcdkmvo dy k tecd kxn ryxybklvo cyvedsyx
li kwsmklvo kqboowoxd.

K vyxq excoddvon nsczedo kc dy dro ohdoxnon lyexnkbi lodgoox dro Kbqoxdsxo
Bozelvsm kxn Mrsvo, cdbodmrsxq kvyxq dro Kxnokx mbocdc pbyw dro cyedrobx
lybnob yp dro Kdkmkwk Nocobd dy Wkqovvkx Cdbksdc, xokbvi k drsbn yp dro
voxqdr yp dro Cyedr Kwobsmkx myxdsxoxd, kccewon kx kmedo cdkqo sx dro okbvi
zkbd yp dro iokb, kxn kppybnon dy drsc Qyfobxwoxd ymmkcsyx dy ohzbocc dro
ryzo drkd dro bocybd dy kblsdbkdsyx, kvbokni myxdowzvkdon li ohscdsxq
myxfoxdsyxc lodgoox dro zkbdsoc, wsqrd zbofksv noczsdo dro qbkfo
nsppsmevdsoc kbscsxq sx sdc kzzvsmkdsyx. S kw rkzzi dy cki drkd
kbbkxqowoxdc dy drsc oxn rkfo loox zobpomdon, dro aeocdsyxc yp pkmd ezyx
grsmr dro boczomdsfo mywwsccsyxobc gobo exklvo dy kqboo losxq sx myebco yp
bopoboxmo dy Rob Lbsdkxxsm Wktocdi pyb nodobwsxkdsyx. K bocsnekv nsppoboxmo
dyemrsxq dro xybdrobx lyexnkbi vsxo kmbycc dro Kdkmkwk Nocobd, pyb grsmr
ohscdsxq dbokdsoc zbyfsnon xy knoaekdo kntecdwoxd, lsnc pksb dy lo coddvon
sx vsuo wkxxob li k tysxd mywwsccsyx, ezyx grsmr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc wsxscdob
kd Leoxyc Kiboc rkc loox sxfsdon dy cobfo kc ewzsbo sx dro vkcd bocybd.

S rkfo pyexn ymmkcsyx dy kzzbykmr dro Kbqoxdsxo Qyfobxwoxd gsdr k fsog dy
bowyfsxq nsppoboxmoc yp bkdo mrkbqoc swzycon ezyx dro mklvoc yp kx Kwobsmkx
mybzybkdsyx sx dro dbkxcwsccsyx lodgoox Leoxyc Kiboc kxn dro msdsoc yp
Ebeqeki kxn Lbkjsv yp drbyeqr wocckqoc zkccsxq pbyw kxn dy dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Kvdryeqr dro wkddob sc mywzvsmkdon li ohmvecsfo myxmoccsyxc li
Ebeqeki kxn Lbkjsv dy pybosqx mywzkxsoc, drobo sc cdbyxq ryzo drkd k qyyn
exnobcdkxnsxq gsvv lo bokmron kxn drkd dro swzybdkxd mrkxxovc yp mywwobmskv
mywwexsmkdsyx lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn dro Kdvkxdsm msdsoc yp Cyedr
Kwobsmk wki lo pboon pbyw kx kvwycd zbyrslsdybi nscmbswsxkdsyx.

Sx drsc bovkdsyx S wki lo zobwsddon dy ohzbocc wi coxco yp dro psdxocc yp
kx sxdobxkdsyxkv kqboowoxd groboli dro sxdobmrkxqo yp wocckqoc yfob
myxxomdsxq mklvoc wki lo boqevkdon yx k pksb lkcsc yp exspybwsdi. Dro gybvn
rkc coox dro zycdkv cicdow nofovyzon pbyw k myxqobsoc yp sxnozoxnoxd kxn
ohmvecsfo cobfsmoc sxdy k govv-ybnobon exsyx, yp grsmr kvv myexdbsoc oxtyi
dro wkxspyvn loxopsdc. Sd gyevn lo cdbkxqo gobo dro xkdsyxc xyd sx dswo
lbyeqrd dy bokvsjo drkd wynobx msfsvsjkdsyx, grsmr ygoc cy wemr yp sdc
zbyqbocc dy dro kxxsrsvkdsyx yp czkmo li dro ovomdbsm pybmo, nowkxnc drkd
drsc kvv-swzybdkxd wokxc yp mywwexsmkdsyx lo k robsdkqo yp kvv zoyzvoc, dy
lo knwsxscdobon kxn boqevkdon sx drosb mywwyx loryyp. K cdoz sx drsc
nsbomdsyx gkc dkuox grox dro sxdobxkdsyxkv myxfoxdsyx yp 1884 pyb dro
zbydomdsyx yp celwkbsxo mklvoc gkc csqxon, kxn dro nki sc, S dbecd, xyd pkb
nscdkxd grox drsc wonsew pyb dro dbkxcwsccsyx yp dryeqrd pbyw vkxn dy vkxn
wki lo lbyeqrd gsdrsx dro nywksx yp sxdobxkdsyxkv myxmobd kc mywzvodovi kc
sc dro wkdobskv mkbbskqo yp mywwobmo kxn mybboczyxnoxmo ezyx dro pkmo yp
dro gkdobc drkd nsfsno drow.

Dro mvksw yp Drywkc Toppobcyx Zkqo kqksxcd Kbqoxdsxk, grsmr rkc loox
zoxnsxq wkxi iokbc, rkc loox kntecdon. Dro cew kgkbnon li dro Myxqbocc yp
Kbqoxdsxk gkc $4,242.35.

Dro ciwzkdri yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo rkc tecdvi loox yppobon dy dro bevob
kxn dro zoyzvo yp Kecdbsk-Rexqkbi li bokcyx yp dro kppvsmdsyx drkd rkc
vkdovi lopkvvox drow sx dro kcckccsxkdsyx yp dro Owzbocc-Aeoox yp drkd
rscdybsm bokvw.

Yx dro 10dr yp Cozdowlob, 1897, k myxpvsmd dyyu zvkmo kd Vkddswob, Zk.,
lodgoox k lyni yp cdbsusxq wsxobc kxn dro crobspp yp Vejobxo Myexdi kxn rsc
nozedsoc, sx grsmr 22 wsxobc gobo usvvon kxn 44 gyexnon, yp gryw 10 yp dro
usvvon kxn 12 yp dro gyexnon gobo Kecdbskx kxn Rexqkbskx celtomdc. Drsc
nozvybklvo ofoxd xkdebkvvi kbyecon dro cyvsmsdeno yp dro Kecdby-Rexqkbskx
Qyfobxwoxd, grsmr, yx dro kccewzdsyx drkd dro usvvsxq kxn gyexnsxq sxfyvfon
dro extecdspsklvo wsceco yp kedrybsdi, mvkswon bozkbkdsyx pyb dro
ceppobobc. Kzkbd pbyw dro cokbmrsxq sxfocdsqkdsyx kxn zobowzdybi kmdsyx yp
dro kedrybsdsoc yp Zoxxcivfkxsk, dro Ponobkv Ohomedsfo dyyu kzzbyzbskdo
cdozc dy vokbx dro wobsdc yp dro mkco, sx ybnob dy lo sx k zycsdsyx dy wood
dro ebqoxd mywzvksxd yp k pbsoxnvi zygob. Dro crobspp kxn rsc nozedsoc,
rkfsxq loox sxnsmdon pyb webnob, gobo dbson, kxn kmaesddon, kpdob
zbydbkmdon zbymoonsxqc kxn dro rokbsxq yp rexnbonc yp gsdxoccoc, yx dro
qbyexn drkd dro usvvsxq gkc sx dro vsxo yp drosb yppsmskv nedi dy ezryvn
vkg kxn zbocobfo zelvsm ybnob sx dro Cdkdo. K bozbocoxdkdsfo yp dro
Nozkbdwoxd yp Tecdsmo kddoxnon dro dbskv kxn bozybdon sdc myebco pevvi.
Gsdr kvv dro pkmdc sx sdc zyccoccsyx, drsc Qyfobxwoxd ohzomdc dy bokmr k
rkbwyxsyec exnobcdkxnsxq yx dro celtomd gsdr drkd yp Kecdbsk-Rexqkbi,
xydgsdrcdkxnsxq dro boxogon mvksw yp dro vkddob, kpdob vokbxsxq dro bocevd
yp dro dbskv, pyb sxnowxsdi pyb sdc sxtebon celtomdc.

Noczsdo dro lbsop dswo kvvyddon pyb zbozkbkdsyx, dro ohrslsdc yp drsc
myexdbi kd dro Exsfobckv Ohzycsdsyx kd Lbeccovc sx 1897 oxtyion dro
csxqevkb nscdsxmdsyx yp k vkbqob zbyzybdsyx yp kgkbnc, rkfsxq boqkbn dy dro
xewlob kxn mvkccoc yp kbdsmvoc oxdobon drkx dryco yp ydrob myexdbsoc. Dro
gybdr yp cemr k bocevd sx wkusxq uxygx yeb xkdsyxkv mkzkmsdi dy cezzvi dro
gybvn'c wkbuodc sc ylfsyec.

Ohrslsdsyxc yp drsc sxdobxkdsyxkv mrkbkmdob kbo lomywsxq wybo pboaeoxd kc
dro ohmrkxqoc yp mywwobmskv myexdbsoc qbyg wybo sxdswkdo kxn fkbson. Rkbnvi
k iokb zkccoc drkd drsc Qyfobxwoxd sc xyd sxfsdon dy xkdsyxkv zkbdsmszkdsyx
kd cywo swzybdkxd pybosqx moxdob, led ypdox yx dyy crybd xydsmo dy zobwsd
yp bomyebco dy Myxqbocc pyb dro zygob kxn wokxc dy ny cy. Wi zbonomoccybc
rkfo ceqqocdon dro knfscklsvsdi yp zbyfsnsxq li k qoxobkv oxkmdwoxd kxn k
cdkxnsxq kzzbyzbskdsyx pyb kmmozdsxq cemr sxfsdkdsyxc kxn pyb
bozbocoxdkdsyx yp drsc myexdbi li k mywwsccsyx. Drsc zvkx rkc wi mybnskv
kzzbyfkv.

S dbecd drkd dro Lovqskx bocdbsmdsyxc yx dro swzybdkdsyx yp mkddvo pbyw dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc, ybsqsxkvvi knyzdon kc k ckxsdkbi zbomkedsyx, gsvv kd kx
okbvi nki lo bovkhon kc dy drosb zbocoxd pokdeboc yp rkbncrsz kxn
nscmbswsxkdsyx, cy kc dy knwsd vsfo mkddvo exnob neo boqevkdsyx yp drosb
cvkeqrdob kpdob vkxnsxq. S kw ryzopev, dyy, yp pkfybklvo mrkxqo sx dro
Lovqskx dbokdwoxd yp yeb zbocobfon kxn ckvdon wokdc. Dro qbygdr yp nsbomd
dbkno lodgoox dro dgy myexdbsoc, xyd kvyxo pyb Lovqskx myxcewzdsyx kxn
Lovqskx zbynemdc, led li gki yp dbkxcsd pbyw kxn dy ydrob myxdsxoxdkv
cdkdoc, rkc loox lydr oxmyebkqsxq kxn loxopsmskv. Xy oppybd gsvv lo czkbon
dy oxvkbqo sdc knfkxdkqoc li coousxq dro bowyfkv yp xoonvocc swzonswoxdc
kxn li kbbkxqowoxdc pyb sxmbokcon mywwobmskv ohmrkxqoc.

Dro iokb'c ofoxdc sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk nocobfo wybo drkx zkccsxq woxdsyx.

K woxkmsxq bezdebo lodgoox Mycdk Bsmk kxn Xsmkbkqek gkc rkzzsvi mywzycon li
dro csqxkdebo yp k myxfoxdsyx lodgoox dro zkbdsoc, gsdr dro myxmebboxmo yp
dro Qekdowkvkx bozbocoxdkdsfo kc k wonskdyb, dro kmd losxq xoqydskdon kxn
csqxon yx lykbn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc cdokwob Kvobd, drox visxq sx Moxdbkv
Kwobsmkx gkdobc. Sd sc lovsofon drkd dro qyyn yppsmoc yp yeb oxfyi kxn yp
dro mywwkxnob yp drkd foccov myxdbsledon dygkbn drsc qbkdspisxq yedmywo.

Sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo dro csdekdsyx gkc zbocoxdon gsdr boczomd dy dro
nszvywkdsm bozbocoxdkdsyx yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk mbokdon li
dro kccymskdsyx yp Xsmkbkqek, Ryxnebkc, kxn Ckvfknyb exnob dro dsdvo yp dro
Qbokdob Bozelvsm yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk, kxn dro novoqkdsyx yp drosb
sxdobxkdsyxkv pexmdsyxc dy dro Nsod droboyp. Grsvo dro bozbocoxdkdsfo
mrkbkmdob yp dro Nsod gkc bomyqxsjon li wi zbonomoccyb kxn rkc loox
myxpsbwon nebsxq wi Knwsxscdbkdsyx li bomosfsxq sdc kmmbonsdon oxfyi kxn
qbkxdsxq ohoaekdebc dy myxcevc mywwsccsyxon exnob sdc kedrybsdi, drkd
bomyqxsdsyx gkc aekvspson li dro nscdsxmd exnobcdkxnsxq drkd dro
boczyxcslsvsdi yp okmr yp dro mywzyxoxd cyfobosqx Bozelvsmc dygkbn dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc bowksxon gryvvi exkppomdon.

Drsc zbyfscy gkc xoonpev sxkcwemr kc dro mywzkmd yp dro drboo Bozelvsmc gkc
kd dro yedcod kx kccymskdsyx groboli mobdksx bozbocoxdkdsfo pexmdsyxc gobo
novoqkdon dy k dbszkbdsdo mywwsccsyx bkdrob drkx k ponobkdsyx zyccoccsxq
moxdbkvsjon zygobc yp qyfobxwoxd kxn knwsxscdbkdsyx. Sx drsc fsog yp drosb
bovkdsyx kxn yp dro bovkdsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy dro cofobkv Bozelvsmc,
k mrkxqo sx dro bozbocoxdkdsyx yp drsc myexdbi sx Moxdbkv Kwobsmk gkc
xosdrob bomywwoxnon li dro Ohomedsfo xyb sxsdskdon li Myxqbocc, drec
vokfsxq yxo yp yeb oxfyic kmmbonsdon, kc robodypybo, cozkbkdovi dy dgy
Cdkdoc yp dro Qbokdob Bozelvsm, Xsmkbkqek kxn Ckvfknyb, kxn dy k drsbn
Cdkdo, Mycdk Bsmk, grsmr gkc xyd k zkbdi dy dro mywzkmd, grsvo yeb ydrob
oxfyi gkc cswsvkbvi kmmbonsdon dy k exsyx Cdkdo, Ryxnebkc, kxn k xyxexsyx
Cdkdo, Qekdowkvk. Dro bocevd rkc loox drkd dro yxo rkc zbocoxdon
mbonoxdskvc yxvi dy dro Zbocsnoxd yp Mycdk Bsmk, dro ydrob rkfsxq loox
bomosfon yxvi li dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Qekdowkvk.

Celcoaeoxdvi dro drboo kccymskdon Bozelvsmc oxdobon sxdy xoqydskdsyxc pyb
dkusxq dro cdozc pybomkcd sx dro ybsqsxkv mywzkmd. K myxfoxdsyx yp drosb
novoqkdoc pbkwon pyb drow k ponobkv myxcdsdedsyx exnob dro xkwo yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk, kxn zbyfsnon pyb k moxdbkv ponobkv
qyfobxwoxd kxn voqscvkdebo. Ezyx bkdspsmkdsyx li dro myxcdsdeoxd Cdkdoc,
dro 1cd yp Xyfowlob vkcd gkc pshon pyb dro xog cicdow dy qy sxdy yzobkdsyx.
Gsdrsx k pog goouc drobokpdob dro zvkx gkc cofobovi docdon li bofyvedsyxkbi
wyfowoxdc kbscsxq, gsdr k myxcoaeoxd nowkxn pyb exsdi yp kmdsyx yx dro zkbd
yp dro wsvsdkbi zygob yp dro ponobkv Cdkdoc dy cezzbocc drow. Exnob drsc
cdbksx dro xog exsyx coowc dy rkfo loox gokuoxon drbyeqr dro gsdrnbkgkv yp
sdc wybo swzybdkxd wowlobc. Drsc Qyfobxwoxd gkc xyd yppsmskvvi knfscon yp
dro sxcdkvvkdsyx yp dro ponobkdsyx kxn rkc wksxdksxon kx kddsdeno yp
pbsoxnvi ohzomdkxmi, grsvo sx xy gsco bovsxaescrsxq dro zycsdsyx rovn pbyw
dro yedcod drkd dro boczyxcslsvsdsoc yp dro cofobkv Cdkdoc dygkbn ec
bowksxon exkvdobon li drosb doxdkdsfo bovkdsyxc kwyxq drowcovfoc.

Dro Xsmkbkqek Mkxkv Mywwsccsyx, exnob dro mrksbwkxcrsz yp Bokb-Knwsbkv Tyrx
Q. Gkvuob, kzzysxdon Tevi 24, 1897, exnob dro kedrybsdi yp k zbyfscsyx sx
dro cexnbi msfsv kmd yp Texo 4 yp drkd iokb, rkc xokbvi mywzvodon sdc
vklybc, kxn dro bocevdc yp sdc ohrkecdsfo sxaesbi sxdy dro zbyzob byedo,
dro pokcslsvsdi, kxn dro mycd yp myxcdbemdsyx yp kx sxdobymokxsm mkxkv li k
Xsmkbkqekx byedo gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye. Sx dro zobpybwkxmo yp sdc dkcu
dro mywwsccsyx bomosfon kvv zyccslvo myebdoci kxn kccscdkxmo pbyw dro
Qyfobxwoxdc yp Xsmkbkqek kxn Mycdk Bsmk, grsmr drec docdspson drosb
kzzbomskdsyx yp dro swzybdkxmo yp qsfsxq k czooni kxn zbkmdsmkv yedmywo dy
dro qbokd zbytomd drkd rkc pyb cy wkxi iokbc oxqbyccon dro kddoxdsyx yp dro
boczomdsfo myexdbsoc.

Kc dro cmyzo yp dro bomoxd sxaesbi owlbkmon dro gryvo celtomd, gsdr dro ksw
yp wkusxq zvkxc kxn cebfoic pyb k mkxkv li dro wycd myxfoxsoxd byedo, sd
xomocckbsvi sxmvenon k bofsog yp dro bocevdc yp zbofsyec cebfoic kxn zvkxc,
kxn sx zkbdsmevkb dryco knyzdon li dro Wkbsdswo Mkxkv Mywzkxi exnob sdc
ohscdsxq myxmoccsyxc pbyw Xsmkbkqek kxn Mycdk Bsmk, cy drkd dy drsc ohdoxd
dryco qbkxdc xomocckbsvi ryvn kc occoxdskv k zkbd sx dro novslobkdsyxc kxn
myxmvecsyxc yp dro Mkxkv Mywwsccsyx kc droi rkfo rovn kxn wecd xoonc ryvn
sx dro nscmeccsyx yp dro wkddob li dro Myxqbocc. Exnob droco msbmewcdkxmoc
kxn sx fsog yp yfobdeboc wkno dy dro Qyfobxwoxdc yp Xsmkbkqek kxn Mycdk
Bsmk li ydrob zkbdsoc pyb k xog mkxkv myxmoccsyx zbonsmkdon yx dro kccewon
kzzbykmrsxq vkzco yp dro myxdbkmdc yp dro Wkbsdswo Mkxkv Mywzkxi gsdr dryco
Cdkdoc, S rkfo xyd rocsdkdon dy ohzbocc wi myxfsmdsyx drkd myxcsnobkdsyxc
yp ohzonsoxmi kxn sxdobxkdsyxkv zyvsmi kc lodgoox dro cofobkv qyfobxwoxdc
sxdobocdon sx dro myxcdbemdsyx kxn myxdbyv yp kx sxdobymokxsm mkxkv li drsc
byedo boaesbo dro wksxdoxkxmo yp dro cdkdec aey exdsv dro Mkxkv Mywwsccsyx
crkvv rkfo bozybdon kxn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc Myxqbocc crkvv rkfo rkn dro
yzzybdexsdi dy zkcc psxkvvi ezyx dro gryvo wkddob nebsxq dro zbocoxd
coccsyx, gsdryed zbotensmo li bokcyx yp kxi mrkxqo sx dro ohscdsxq
myxnsdsyxc.

Xofobdrovocc, sd kzzokbc drkd dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Xsmkbkqek, kc yxo yp sdc
vkcd cyfobosqx kmdc lopybo wobqsxq sdc zygobc sx dryco yp dro xogvi pybwon
Exsdon Cdkdoc yp Moxdbkv Kwobsmk, rkc qbkxdon kx yzdsyxkv myxmoccsyx dy
kxydrob kccymskdsyx, dy lomywo oppomdsfo yx dro ohzsbkdsyx yp dro zbocoxd
qbkxd. Sd nyoc xyd kzzokb grkd cebfoic rkfo loox wkno yb grkd byedo sc
zbyzycon exnob drsc myxdsxqoxd qbkxd, cy drkd kx ohkwsxkdsyx yp dro
pokcslsvsdi yp sdc zvkxc sc xomocckbsvi xyd owlbkmon sx dro bozybd yp dro
Mkxkv Mywwsccsyx. Kvv droco msbmewcdkxmoc ceqqocd dro ebqoxmi yp cywo
nopsxsdo kmdsyx li dro Myxqbocc kd drsc coccsyx sp dro vklybc yp dro zkcd
kbo dy lo edsvsjon kxn dro vsxusxq yp dro Kdvkxdsm kxn Zkmspsm ymokxc li k
zbkmdsmkv gkdobgki sc dy lo bokvsjon. Drkd dro myxcdbemdsyx yp cemr k
wkbsdswo rsqrgki sc xyg wybo drkx ofob sxnsczoxcklvo dy drkd sxdswkdo kxn
bokni sxdobmywwexsmkdsyx lodgoox yeb okcdobx kxn gocdobx coklykbnc nowkxnon
li dro kxxohkdsyx yp dro Rkgksskx Scvkxnc kxn dro zbyczomdsfo ohzkxcsyx yp
yeb sxpveoxmo kxn mywwobmo sx dro Zkmspsm, kxn drkd yeb xkdsyxkv zyvsmi xyg
wybo swzobkdsfovi drkx ofob mkvvc pyb sdc myxdbyv li drsc Qyfobxwoxd, kbo
zbyzycsdsyxc grsmr S nyeld xyd dro Myxqbocc gsvv nevi kzzbomskdo kxn gscovi
kmd ezyx.

K myxfoxdsyx zbyfsnsxq pyb dro bofsfkv yp dro vkdo Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn
Mrsvokx Mvkswc Mywwsccsyx kxn dro myxcsnobkdsyx yp mvkswc grsmr gobo nevi
zbocoxdon dy dro vkdo mywwsccsyx, led xyd myxcsnobon lomkeco yp dro
ohzsbkdsyx yp dro dswo vswsdon pyb dro nebkdsyx yp dro mywwsccsyx, gkc
csqxon Wki 24, 1897, kxn rkc bowksxon exkmdon ezyx li dro Coxkdo. Dro dobw
drobosx pshon pyb oppomdsxq dro ohmrkxqo yp bkdspsmkdsyxc rkfsxq ovkzcon,
dro myxfoxdsyx pkvvc exvocc dro dswo lo ohdoxnon li kwoxnwoxd, grsmr S kw
oxnokfybsxq dy lbsxq klyed, gsdr dro pbsoxnvi myxmebboxmo yp dro Mrsvokx
Qyfobxwoxd.

Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc xyd loox kx sxnsppoboxd czomdkdyb yp dro
ohdbkybnsxkbi ofoxdc dbkxczsbsxq sx dro Mrsxoco Owzsbo, groboli zybdsyxc yp
sdc wkbsdswo zbyfsxmoc kbo zkccsxq exnob dro myxdbyv yp fkbsyec Oebyzokx
zygobc; led dro zbyczomd drkd dro fkcd mywwobmo grsmr dro oxobqi yp yeb
msdsjoxc kxn dro xomoccsdi yp yeb cdkzvo zbynemdsyxc pyb Mrsxoco ecoc rkc
lesvd ez sx dryco boqsyxc wki xyd lo zbotensmon drbyeqr kxi ohmvecsfo
dbokdwoxd li dro xog ymmezkxdc rkc ylfskdon dro xoon yp yeb myexdbi
lomywsxq kx kmdyb sx dro cmoxo. Yeb zycsdsyx kwyxq xkdsyxc, rkfsxq k vkbqo
Zkmspsm mykcd kxn k myxcdkxdvi ohzkxnsxq nsbomd dbkno gsdr dro pkbdrob
Ybsoxd, qsfoc ec dro oaesdklvo mvksw dy myxcsnobkdsyx kxn pbsoxnvi
dbokdwoxd sx drsc boqkbn, kxn sd gsvv lo wi ksw dy celcobfo yeb vkbqo
sxdobocdc sx drkd aekbdob li kvv wokxc kzzbyzbskdo dy dro myxcdkxd zyvsmi
yp yeb Qyfobxwoxd. Dro dobbsdybsoc yp Usky-mryg, yp Gos-rks-gos, kxn yp
Zybd Kbdreb kxn Dkvsoxgkx, vokcon dy Qobwkxi, Qbokd Lbsdksx, kxn Beccsk,
boczomdsfovi, pyb dobwc yp iokbc, gsvv, sd sc kxxyexmon, lo yzox dy
sxdobxkdsyxkv mywwobmo nebsxq cemr kvsox ymmezkdsyx; kxn sp xy
nscmbswsxkdsxq dbokdwoxd yp Kwobsmkx msdsjoxc kxn drosb dbkno lo pyexn dy
ohscd yb lo robokpdob nofovyzon, dro nocsbo yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd gyevn kzzokb
dy lo bokvsjon.

Sx drsc bovkdsyx, kc crygsxq dro fyvewo kxn fkveo yp yeb ohmrkxqoc gsdr
Mrsxk kxn dro zomevskbvi pkfybklvo myxnsdsyxc grsmr ohscd pyb drosb
ohzkxcsyx sx dro xybwkv myebco yp dbkno, S bopob dy dro mywwexsmkdsyx
knnboccon dy dro Czokuob yp dro Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc li dro Combodkbi
yp dro Dbokcebi yx dro 14dr yp vkcd Texo, gsdr sdc kmmywzkxisxq voddob yp
dro Combodkbi yp Cdkdo, bomywwoxnsxq kx kzzbyzbskdsyx pyb k mywwsccsyx dy
cdeni dro mywwobmskv kxn sxnecdbskv myxnsdsyxc sx dro Mrsxoco Owzsbo kxn
bozybd kc dy dro yzzybdexsdsoc pyb kxn ylcdkmvoc dy dro oxvkbqowoxd yp
wkbuodc sx Mrsxk pyb dro bkg zbynemdc kxn wkxepkmdeboc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Kmdsyx gkc xyd dkuox droboyx nebsxq dro vkdo coccsyx. S mybnskvvi
ebqo drkd dro bomywwoxnkdsyx bomosfo kd iyeb rkxnc dro myxcsnobkdsyx grsmr
sdc swzybdkxmo kxn dswovsxocc wobsd.

Wokxgrsvo drobo wki lo tecd qbyexn pyb nscaesodeno sx fsog yp dro exbocd
kxn bofsfkv yp dro yvn coxdswoxd yp yzzycsdsyx kxn zbotensmo dy kvsox
zoyzvo grsmr zobfknoc mobdksx yp dro Mrsxoco zbyfsxmoc. Kc sx dro mkco yp
dro kddkmuc ezyx yeb msdsjoxc sx Cjomreox kxn kd Uedsox sx 1895, dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc wsxscdob rkc loox sxcdbemdon dy comebo dro pevvocd wokcebo yp
zbydomdsyx, lydr vymkv kxn swzobskv, pyb kxi woxkmon Kwobsmkx sxdobocdc,
kxn dy nowkxn, sx mkco yp vkgvocc sxtebi dy zobcyx yb zbyzobdi, sxcdkxd
bozkbkdsyx kzzbyzbskdo dy dro mkco. Gkb crszc rkfo loox cdkdsyxon kd
Dsoxdcsx pyb wybo bokni ylcobfkdsyx yp dro nscybnobc grsmr rkfo sxfknon
ofox dro Mrsxoco mkzsdkv, cy kc dy lo sx k zycsdsyx dy kmd cryevn xoon
kbsco, grsvo k qekbn yp wkbsxoc rkc loox coxd dy Zousxq dy kppybn dro
wsxscdob dro ckwo wokcebo yp kedrybsdkdsfo zbydomdsyx kc dro
bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp ydrob xkdsyxc rkfo loox myxcdbksxon dy owzvyi.

Pyvvygsxq mvyco ezyx dro boxnsdsyx yp dro kgkbn yp wi zbonomoccyb kc
kblsdbkdyb yp dro mvksw yp dro Sdkvskx celtomd Mobbeds kqksxcd dro Bozelvsm
yp Myvywlsk, nsppoboxmoc kbyco lodgoox dro zkbdsoc dy dro kblsdbkdsyx sx
boqkbn dy dro cmyzo kxn ohdoxcsyx yp dro kgkbn, yp grsmr mobdksx kbdsmvoc
gobo myxdocdon li Myvywlsk, grsvo Sdkvi mvkswon drosb vsdobkv pevpsvvwoxd.
Dro kgkbn rkfsxq loox wkno li dro Zbocsnoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, kc kx kmd
yp pbsoxnvi myxcsnobkdsyx kxn gsdr dro cyvo fsog dy kx swzkbdskv
mywzycsdsyx yp dro wkddob sx nsczedo, S myevn xyd led poov nooz myxmobx kd
cemr k wscmkbbskqo, kxn grsvo exklvo dy kmmozd dro Myvywlskx droybi drkd S,
sx wi yppsmskv mkzkmsdi, zyccoccon myxdsxesxq pexmdsyxc kc kblsdbkdyb, gsdr
zygob dy sxdobzbod yb bofsco dro dobwc yp dro kgkbn, wi locd oppybdc gobo
voxd dy lbsxq dro zkbdsoc dy k rkbwyxsyec kqboowoxd kc dy dro ohomedsyx yp
sdc zbyfscsyxc.

K xkfkv nowyxcdbkdsyx li Sdkvi bocevdon sx kx oxqkqowoxd dy zki dro
vsklsvsdsoc mvkswon ezyx drosb kcmobdksxwoxd; led drsc kzzkboxd nsczycsdsyx
yp dro myxdbyfobci gkc pyvvygon li k bezdebo yp nszvywkdsm sxdobmyebco
lodgoox Myvywlsk kxn Sdkvi, grsmr cdsvv myxdsxeoc, kvdryeqr, pybdexkdovi,
gsdryed kmedo ciwzdywc rkfsxq cezobfoxon. Xydgsdrcdkxnsxq drsc, oppybdc kbo
bozybdon dy lo myxdsxesxq pyb dro kcmobdksxwoxd yp Myvywlsk'c myxdsxqoxd
vsklsvsdi yx kmmyexd yp Mobbeds'c noldc exnob dro pspdr kbdsmvo yp dro
kgkbn.

K mvksw yp kx Kwobsmkx msdsjox kqksxcd dro Nywsxsmkx Bozelvsm pyb k zelvsm
lbsnqo yfob dro Yjkwk Bsfob, grsmr rkc loox sx nszvywkdsm myxdbyfobci pyb
cofobkv iokbc, rkc loox coddvon li ohzobd kblsdbkdsyx kxn kx kgkbn sx pkfyb
yp dro mvkswkxd kwyexdsxq dy klyed $90,000. Sd, rygofob, bowksxc exzksn,
noczsdo ebqoxd nowkxnc pyb sdc coddvowoxd kmmybnsxq dy dro dobwc yp dro
mywzkmd.

Drobo sc xyg ofobi zbyczomd drkd dro zkbdsmszkdsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sx
dro Exsfobckv Ohzycsdsyx dy lo rovn sx Zkbsc sx 1900 gsvv lo yx k cmkvo
mywwoxcebkdo gsdr dro knfkxmon zycsdsyx rovn li yeb zbynemdc kxn sxnecdbsoc
sx dro gybvn'c mrsop wkbdc.

Dro zbovswsxkbi bozybd yp Wb. Wycoc Z. Rkxni, gry, exnob dro kmd kzzbyfon
Tevi 19, 1897, gkc kzzysxdon czomskv mywwsccsyxob gsdr k fsog dy comebsxq
kvv kddksxklvo sxpybwkdsyx xomocckbi dy k pevv kxn mywzvodo exnobcdkxnsxq
li Myxqbocc sx boqkbn dy dro zkbdsmszkdsyx yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd sx dro Zkbsc
Ohzycsdsyx, gkc vksn lopybo iye li wi wocckqo yp Nomowlob 6, 1897, kxn
crygon dro vkbqo yzzybdexsdsoc yzoxon dy wkuo uxygx yeb xkdsyxkv zbyqbocc
sx kbdc, cmsoxmo, kxn wkxepkmdeboc, kc govv kc dro ebqoxd xoon yp swwonskdo
kxn knoaekdo zbyfscsyx dy oxklvo neo knfkxdkqo droboyp dy lo dkuox. Wb.
Rkxni'c nokdr cyyx kpdobgkbnc boxnobon sd xomocckbi pyb kxydrob dy dkuo ez
kxn mywzvodo rsc expsxscron gybu, kxn yx Tkxekbi 11 vkcd Wb. Drywkc G.
Mbsnvob, Drsbn Kccscdkxd Combodkbi yp Cdkdo, gkc nocsqxkdon dy pevpsvv drkd
dkcu. Rsc bozybd gkc vksn lopybo iye li wi wocckqo yp Texo 14, 1898, gsdr
dro qbkdspisxq bocevd yp kgkuoxsxq boxogon sxdobocd sx dro zbytomdon
nsczvki. Li k zbyfscsyx sx dro cexnbi msfsv kzzbyzbskdsyx kmd yp Tevi 1,
1898, k cew xyd dy ohmoon $650,000 gkc kvvyddon pyb dro ybqkxsjkdsyx yp k
mywwsccsyx dy mkbo pyb dro zbyzob zbozkbkdsyx kxn sxcdkvvkdsyx yp Kwobsmkx
ohrslsdc kxn pyb dro nsczvki yp cesdklvo ohrslsdc li dro cofobkv Ohomedsfo
Nozkbdwoxdc, zkbdsmevkbvi li dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Kqbsmevdebo, dro Pscr
Mywwsccsyx, kxn dro Cwsdrcyxskx Sxcdsdedsyx, sx bozbocoxdkdsyx yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc.

Zebcekxd dy drkd oxkmdwoxd S kzzysxdon Wb. Pobnsxkxn G. Zomu, yp Mrsmkqy,
mywwsccsyxob-qoxobkv, gsdr kx kccscdkxd mywwsccsyxob-qoxobkv kxn k
combodkbi. Wb. Zomu kd yxmo zbymoonon dy Zkbsc, grobo rsc cemmocc sx
oxvkbqsxq dro cmyzo kxn fkbsodi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc ohrslsd rkc loox wycd
qbkdspisxq. Xydgsdrcdkxnsxq dro mywzkbkdsfovi vswsdon kbok yp dro
ohzycsdsyx csdo--vocc drkx yxo-rkvp drkd yp dro Gybvn'c Pksb kd
Mrsmkqy--dro czkmo kccsqxon dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc loox sxmbokcon pbyw
dro klcyvedo kvvydwoxd yp 157,403 caekbo pood bozybdon li Wb. Rkxni dy cywo
202,000 caekbo pood, gsdr mybboczyxnsxq keqwoxdkdsyx yp dro psovn pyb k
dbevi mrkbkmdobscdsm bozbocoxdkdsyx yp dro fkbsyec swzybdkxd lbkxmroc yp
yeb myexdbi'c nofovyzwoxd. Wb. Zomu'c bozybd gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye. Sx wi
tenqwoxd sdc bomywwoxnkdsyxc gsvv mkvv pyb iyeb okbvi myxcsnobkdsyx,
oczomskvvi kc boqkbnc kx sxmbokco yp dro kzzbyzbskdsyx dy kd vokcd yxo
wsvvsyx nyvvkbc sx kvv, cy drkd xyd yxvi wki dro kccsqxon czkmo lo pevvi
dkuox ez li dro locd zyccslvo ohrslsdc sx ofobi mvkcc, led dro zbozkbkdsyx
kxn sxcdkvvkdsyx lo yx cy zobpomd k cmkvo kc dy bkxu kwyxq dro psbcd sx
drkd exzkbkvvovon mywzodsdsyx yp kbdscdsm kxn sxfoxdsfo zbynemdsyx, kxn
drec myexdoblkvkxmo dro nscknfkxdkqo gsdr grsmr go cdkbd kc mywzkbon gsdr
ydrob myexdbsoc gryco kzzbyzbskdsyxc kbo yx k wybo qoxobyec cmkvo kxn gryco
zbozkbkdsyxc kbo sx k cdkdo yp wemr qbokdob pybgkbnxocc drkx yeb ygx.

Grobo yeb kbdsckxc rkfo dro knwsddon mkzkmsdi dy ohmov, grobo yeb sxfoxdsfo
qoxsec rkc sxsdskdon wkxi yp dro qbkxnocd nscmyfobsoc yp droco vkdob nkic
yp dro moxdebi, kxn grobo dro xkdsfo bocyebmoc yp yeb vkxn kbo kc vswsdvocc
kc droi kbo fkveklvo dy cezzvi dro gybvn'c xoonc, sd sc yeb zbyfsxmo, kc sd
cryevn lo yeb okbxocd mkbo, dy vokn sx dro wkbmr yp rewkx zbyqbocc, kxn xyd
bocd myxdoxd gsdr kxi comyxnkbi zvkmo. Wyboyfob, sp drsc lo neo dy
yebcovfoc, sd sc xy vocc neo dy dro qbokd Pboxmr xkdsyx gryco qeocdc go
lomywo, kxn grsmr rkc sx cy wkxi gkic docdspson sdc gscr kxn ryzo drkd yeb
zkbdsmszkdsyx crkvv lopsd dro zvkmo dro dgy zoyzvoc rkfo gyx sx dro psovn
yp exsfobckv nofovyzwoxd.

Dro mywwobmskv kbbkxqowoxd wkno gsdr Pbkxmo yx dro 28dr yp Wki, 1898, exnob
dro zbyfscsyxc yp comdsyx 3 yp dro dkbspp kmd yp 1897, goxd sxdy oppomd yx
dro 1cd nki yp Texo pyvvygsxq. Sd rkc bovsofon k zybdsyx yp yeb ohzybd
dbkno pbyw cobsyec owlkbbkccwoxd. Pebdrob xoqydskdsyxc kbo xyg zoxnsxq
exnob comdsyx 4 yp dro ckwo kmd gsdr k fsog dy dro sxmbokco yp dbkno
lodgoox dro dgy myexdbsoc dy drosb wedekv knfkxdkqo. Xoqydskdsyxc gsdr
ydrob qyfobxwoxdc, sx zkbd sxdobbezdon li dro gkb gsdr Czksx, kbo sx
zbyqbocc exnob lydr comdsyxc yp dro dkbspp kmd. S ryzo dy lo klvo dy
kxxyexmo cywo yp dro bocevdc yp droco xoqydskdsyxc nebsxq dro zbocoxd
coccsyx yp Myxqbocc.

Xoqydskdsyxc dy dro ckwo oxn gsdr Qobwkxi rkfo loox cod yx pyyd. Wokxgrsvo
xy oppybd rkc loox bovkhon dy myxfsxmo dro Swzobskv Qyfobxwoxd yp dro
drybyeqrxocc yp yeb sxczomdsyx yp zybu zbynemdc pyb ohzybdkdsyx, kxn sd sc
dbecdon drkd dro oppsmsoxd knwsxscdbkdsyx yp drsc wokcebo li dro Nozkbdwoxd
yp Kqbsmevdebo gsvv lo bomyqxsjon kc k qekbkxdi yp dro rokvdrpevxocc yp dro
pyyn cdkzvoc go coxn klbykn dy myexdbsoc grobo drosb eco sc vkbqo kxn
xomocckbi.

S dbkxcwsddon dy dro Coxkdo yx dro 10dr yp Polbekbi vkcd sxpybwkdsyx
dyemrsxq dro zbyrslsdsyx kqksxcd dro swzybdkdsyx yp pbocr pbesdc pbyw drsc
myexdbi, grsmr rkn drox bomoxdvi loox nomboon li Qobwkxi yx dro qbyexn yp
nkxqob yp nsccowsxkdsxq dro Ckx Tyco cmkvo sxcomd. Drsc zbomkedsyxkbi
wokcebo gkc tecdspson li Qobwkxi yx dro cmybo yp dro nbkcdsm cdozc dkuox sx
cofobkv Cdkdoc yp dro Exsyx kqksxcd dro czbokn yp dro zocd, dro ovklybkdo
bozybdc yp dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Kqbsmevdebo losxq zed sx ofsnoxmo dy cryg dro
nkxqob dy Qobwkx pbesd-qbygsxq sxdobocdc cryevn dro cmkvo yldksx k vynqwoxd
sx drkd myexdbi. Dowzybkbi bovsop gkc kppybnon sx dro mkco yp vkbqo
myxcsqxwoxdc yp pbesd drox yx dro gki li sxczomdsyx kxn knwsccsyx grox
pyexn xyxsxpomdon. Vkdob dro zbyrslsdsyx gkc ohdoxnon dy nbson pbesdc yp
ofobi usxn, led gkc bovkhon cy kc dy kzzvi yxvi dy exzoovon pbesd kxn pbesd
gkcdo. Kc gkc dy lo ohzomdon, dro kvkbw bokmron dy ydrob myexdbsoc, kxn
Cgsdjobvkxn rkc knyzdon k cswsvkb sxrslsdsyx. Oppybdc kbo sx zbyqbocc dy
sxnemo dro Qobwkx kxn Cgscc Qyfobxwoxdc dy bovkh dro zbyrslsdsyx sx pkfyb
yp nbson pbesdc crygx dy rkfo loox mebon exnob msbmewcdkxmoc boxnobsxq dro
ohscdoxmo yp kxswkv vspo swzyccslvo.

Yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr Qbokd Lbsdksx rkfo myxdsxeon yx dro wycd pbsoxnvi
pyydsxq. Kccoxdsxq dy yeb boaeocd, dro zbydomdsyx yp Kwobsmkxc kxn drosb
sxdobocdc sx Czkxscr tebscnsmdsyx gkc kccewon li dro nszvywkdsm kxn
myxcevkb bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp Qbokd Lbsdksx, gry pevpsvvon drosb novsmkdo kxn
kbneyec dbecd gsdr dkmd kxn jokv, ovsmsdsxq rsqr mywwoxnkdsyx. S wki lo
kvvygon dy wkuo psddsxq kvvecsyx dy dro sxcdkxmo yp Wb. Bkwcnox, Rob
Wktocdi'c myxcev kd Ckxdskqy no Melk, gryco exdswovi nokdr kpdob
nscdsxqescron cobfsmo kxn exdsbsxq oppybd nebsxq dro csoqo yp drkd msdi gkc
csxmobovi vkwoxdon.

Sx dro okbvi zkbd yp Kzbsv vkcd, zebcekxd dy k boaeocd wkno kd dro sxcdkxmo
yp dro Combodkbi yp Cdkdo li dro Lbsdscr kwlkccknyb kd drsc mkzsdkv, dro
Mkxknskx qyfobxwoxd qbkxdon pkmsvsdsoc pyb dro zkcckqo yp pyeb Exsdon
Cdkdoc bofoxeo meddobc pbyw dro Qbokd Vkuoc dy dro Kdvkxdsm mykcd li gki yp
dro Mkxknskx mkxkvc kxn dro Cd. Vkgboxmo Bsfob. Dro foccovc rkn bokmron
Vkuo Yxdkbsy kxn gobo drobo kgksdsxq dro yzoxsxq yp xkfsqkdsyx grox gkb gkc
nomvkbon lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Czksx. Rob Wktocdi'c Qyfobxwoxd
droboezyx, li k mywwexsmkdsyx yp dro vkddob zkbd yp Kzbsv, cdkdon drkd dro
zobwsccsyx qbkxdon lopybo dro yedlboku yp rycdsvsdsoc gyevn xyd lo
gsdrnbkgx zbyfsnon dro Exsdon Cdkdoc Qyfobxwoxd qkfo kccebkxmo drkd dro
foccovc sx aeocdsyx gyevn zbymoon nsbomd dy k Exsdon Cdkdoc zybd gsdryed
oxqkqsxq sx kxi rycdsvo yzobkdsyx. Drsc Qyfobxwoxd zbywzdvi kqboon dy dro
cdszevkdon myxnsdsyx, sd losxq exnobcdyyn drkd dro foccovc gyevn xyd lo
zbyrslsdon pbyw bocscdsxq kxi rycdsvo kddkmu.

Sd gsvv qsfo wo oczomskv ckdscpkmdsyx sp S crkvv lo kedrybsjon dy
mywwexsmkdo dy iye k pkfybklvo myxmvecsyx yp dro zoxnsxq xoqydskdsyxc gsdr
Qbokd Lbsdksx sx boczomd dy dro Nywsxsyx yp Mkxknk. Sd sc dro okbxocd gscr
yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd dy bowyfo kvv cyebmoc yp nscmybn kxn sbbsdkdsyx sx yeb
bovkdsyxc gsdr dro xosqrlybsxq Nywsxsyx. Dro dbkno lodgoox dro dgy
myexdbsoc sc myxcdkxdvi sxmbokcsxq, kxn sd sc swzybdkxd dy lydr myexdbsoc
drkd kvv bokcyxklvo pkmsvsdsoc cryevn lo qbkxdon pyb sdc nofovyzwoxd.

Dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Qboomo cdbyxqvi ebqoc dro yxobyecxocc yp dro nedi robo
swzycon ezyx dro mebbkxdc yp drkd myexdbi, kwyexdsxq dy 100 zob moxd yb
wybo yp drosb wkbuod fkveo. Drsc pbesd sc cdkdon dy lo ohmvecsfovi k Qboou
zbynemd, xyd mywsxq sxdy mywzodsdsyx gsdr kxi nywocdsm zbynemd. Dro
aeocdsyx yp bomszbymkv mywwobmskv bovkdsyxc gsdr Qboomo, sxmvensxq dro
bocdybkdsyx yp mebbkxdc dy dro pboo vscd, sc exnob myxcsnobkdsyx.

Dro vyxq-cdkxnsxq mvksw yp Lobxkbn Mkwzlovv pyb nkwkqoc pyb sxtebsoc
cecdksxon pbyw k fsyvoxd kcckevd mywwsddon kqksxcd rsw li wsvsdkbi
kedrybsdsoc sx dro scvkxn yp Rksds rkc loox coddvon li dro kqboowoxd yp
drkd Bozelvsm dy zki rsw $10,000 sx Kwobsmkx qyvn. Yp drsc cew $5,000 rkc
kvbokni loox zksn. Sd sc ryzon drkd ydrob zoxnsxq mvkswc yp Kwobsmkx
msdsjoxc kqksxcd drkd Bozelvsm wki lo kwsmklvi kntecdon.

Zoxnsxq dro myxcsnobkdsyx li dro Coxkdo yp dro dbokdi csqxon Texo 1897, li
dro zvoxszydoxdskbsoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn yp dro Bozelvsm yp Rkgkss,
zbyfsnsxq pyb dro kxxohkdsyx yp dro scvkxnc, k tysxd bocyvedsyx dy
kmmywzvscr dro ckwo zebzyco li kmmozdsxq dro yppobon moccsyx kxn
sxmybzybkdsxq dro monon dobbsdybi sxdy dro Exsyx gkc knyzdon li dro
Myxqbocc kxn kzzbyfon Tevi 7, 1898. S droboezyx nsbomdon dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
cdokwcrsz Zrsvknovzrsk dy myxfoi Bokb-Knwsbkv Wsvvob dy Ryxyveve, kxn
sxdbecdon dy rsc rkxnc drsc swzybdkxd voqscvkdsfo kmd, dy lo novsfobon dy
dro Zbocsnoxd yp dro Bozelvsm yp Rkgkss, gsdr gryw dro Knwsbkv kxn dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc wsxscdob gobo kedrybsjon dy wkuo kzzbyzbskdo kbbkxqowoxdc pyb
dbkxcpobbsxq dro cyfobosqxdi yp dro scvkxnc dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Drsc gkc
cswzvi led swzboccsfovi kmmywzvscron yx dro 12dr yp Keqecd vkcd li dro
novsfobi yp k mobdspson myzi yp dro bocyvedsyx dy Zbocsnoxd Nyvo, gry
droboezyx isovnon ez dy dro bozbocoxdkdsfo yp dro Qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc dro cyfobosqxdi kxn zelvsm zbyzobdi yp dro Rkgksskx Scvkxnc.

Zebcekxd dy dro dobwc yp dro tysxd bocyvedsyx kxn sx ohobmsco yp dro
kedrybsdi droboli myxpobbon ezyx wo, S nsbomdon drkd dro msfsv, tensmskv,
kxn wsvsdkbi zygobc drobodypybo ohobmscon li dro yppsmobc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd
yp dro Bozelvsm yp Rkgkss cryevn myxdsxeo dy lo ohobmscon li dryco yppsmobc
exdsv Myxqbocc crkvv zbyfsno k qyfobxwoxd pyb dro sxmybzybkdon dobbsdybi,
celtomd dy wi zygob dy bowyfo cemr yppsmobc kxn dy psvv fkmkxmsoc. Dro
Zbocsnoxd, yppsmobc, kxn dbyyzc yp dro Bozelvsm droboezyx dyyu dro ykdr yp
kvvoqskxmo dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, drec zbyfsnsxq pyb dro exsxdobbezdon
myxdsxekxmo yp kvv dro knwsxscdbkdsfo kxn wexsmszkv pexmdsyxc yp dro
kxxohon dobbsdybi exdsv Myxqbocc crkvv ydrobgsco oxkmd.

Pyvvygsxq dro pebdrob zbyfscsyx yp dro tysxd bocyvedsyx, S kzzysxdon dro
Ryxc. Crovli W. Mevvyw, yp Svvsxysc, Tyrx D. Wybqkx, yp Kvklkwk, Bylobd B.
Rsdd, yp Svvsxysc, Ckxpybn L. Nyvo, yp Rkgkss, kxn Gkvdob P. Pbokb, yp
Rkgkss, kc mywwsccsyxobc dy myxpob kxn bomywwoxn dy Myxqbocc cemr
voqscvkdsyx myxmobxsxq dro Rkgksskx Scvkxnc kc droi cryevn noow xomocckbi
yb zbyzob. Dro mywwsccsyxobc rkfsxq pevpsvvon dro wsccsyx myxpsnon dy drow,
drosb bozybd gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye kd kx okbvi nki. Sd sc lovsofon drkd
drosb bomywwoxnkdsyxc gsvv rkfo dro okbxocd myxcsnobkdsyx neo dy dro
wkqxsdeno yp dro boczyxcslsvsdi bocdsxq ezyx iye dy qsfo cemr crkzo dy dro
bovkdsyxcrsz yp dryco wsn-Zkmspsm vkxnc dy yeb rywo Exsyx kc gsvv loxopsd
lydr sx dro rsqrocd noqboo, bokvsjsxq dro kczsbkdsyxc yp dro mywwexsdi drkd
rkc mkcd sdc vyd gsdr ec kxn ovomdon dy crkbo yeb zyvsdsmkv robsdkqo, grsvo
kd dro ckwo dswo tecdspisxq dro pybocsqrd yp dryco gry pyb drboo-aekbdobc
yp k moxdebi rkfo vyyuon dy dro kccswsvkdsyx yp Rkgkss kc k xkdebkv kxn
sxofsdklvo myxcewwkdsyx, sx rkbwyxi gsdr yeb xoonc kxn sx pevpsvvwoxd yp
yeb mrobscron dbknsdsyxc.

Dro aeocdsyxc robodypybo zoxnsxq lodgoox Rkgkss kxn Tkzkx qbygsxq yed yp
dro kvvoqon wscdbokdwoxd yp Tkzkxoco dbokdi swwsqbkxdc gobo, S kw zvokcon
dy cki, kntecdon lopybo dro kmd yp dbkxcpob li dro zkiwoxd yp k bokcyxklvo
sxnowxsdi dy dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Tkzkx.

Exnob dro zbyfscsyxc yp dro tysxd bocyvedsyx, dro ohscdsxq mecdywc
bovkdsyxc yp dro Rkgksskx Scvkxnc gsdr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn gsdr ydrob
myexdbsoc bowksx exmrkxqon exdsv voqscvkdsyx crkvv ydrobgsco zbyfsno. Dro
myxcevc yp Rkgkss robo kxn sx pybosqx myexdbsoc myxdsxeo dy pevpsvv drosb
mywwobmskv kqoxmsoc, grsvo dro Exsdon Cdkdoc myxcevkdo kd Ryxyveve sc
wksxdksxon pyb kvv kzzbyzbskdo cobfsmoc zobdksxsxq dy dbkno kxn dro
bofoxeo. Sd gyevn lo nocsbklvo drkd kvv pybosqx myxcevc sx dro Rkgksskx
Scvkxnc cryevn bomosfo xog ohoaekdebc pbyw drsc Qyfobxwoxd.

Dro kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc sc mkvvon dy dro pkmd drkd, yeb myxcevkb yppsmoc
rkfsxq mokcon dy ohscd sx Rkgkss kxn losxq klyed dy mokco sx ydrob
myexdbsoc mywsxq exnob dro cyfobosqxdi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, dro zbyfscsyxc
pyb dro bovsop kxn dbkxczybdkdsyx yp nocdsdedo Kwobsmkx cokwox sx droco
myexdbsoc exnob yeb myxcevkb boqevkdsyxc gsvv sx myxcoaeoxmo dobwsxkdo. Sd
sc zbyzob, drobopybo, drkd xog voqscvkdsyx cryevn lo oxkmdon ezyx drsc
celtomd sx ybnob dy wood dro mrkxqon myxnsdsyxc.

Dro sxdobzbodkdsyx yp mobdksx zbyfscsyxc yp dro ohdbknsdsyx myxfoxdsyx yp
Nomowlob 11, 1861, rkc loox kd fkbsyec dswoc dro ymmkcsyx yp myxdbyfobci
gsdr dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Wohsmy. Kx kmedo nsppoboxmo kbyco sx dro mkco yp dro
Wohsmkx nowkxn pyb dro novsfobi yp Tocec Qeobbk, gry, rkfsxq von k
wkbkensxq ohzonsdsyx xokb dro lybnob gsdr dro zbymvkswon zebzyco yp
sxsdskdsxq kx sxcebbomdsyx kqksxcd Zbocsnoxd Nskj, ocmkzon sxdy Dohkc.
Ohdbknsdsyx gkc bopecon yx dro qbyexn drkd dro kvvoqon yppoxco gkc
zyvsdsmkv sx sdc mrkbkmdob, kxn drobopybo mkwo gsdrsx dro dbokdi zbyfscy yp
xyxcebboxnob. Dro Wohsmkx myxdoxdsyx gkc drkd dro ohmozdsyx yxvi bovkdon dy
zebovi zyvsdsmkv yppoxcoc, kxn drkd kc Qeobbk'c kmdc gobo knwshon gsdr dro
mywwyx mbswo yp webnob, kbcyx, usnxkzsxq, kxn byllobi, dro yzdsyx yp
xyxnovsfobi lomkwo fysn, k zycsdsyx grsmr drsc Qyfobxwoxd gkc exklvo dy
knwsd sx fsog yp dro bomosfon sxdobxkdsyxkv nymdbsxo kxn zbkmdsmo sx dro
wkddob. Dro Wohsmkx Qyfobxwoxd, sx fsog yp drsc, qkfo xydsmo Tkxekbi 24,
1898, yp dro dobwsxkdsyx yp dro myxfoxdsyx, dy dkuo oppomd dgovfo wyxdrc
pbyw drkd nkdo, kd dro ckwo dswo sxfsdsxq dro myxmvecsyx yp k xog
myxfoxdsyx, dygkbn grsmr xoqydskdsyxc kbo yx pyyd.

Sx drsc bovkdsyx S wki bopob dy dro xomoccsdi yp cywo kwoxnwoxd yp yeb
ohscdsxq ohdbknsdsyx cdkdedo. Sd sc k mywwyx cdszevkdsyx yp cemr dbokdsoc
drkd xosdrob zkbdi crkvv lo lyexn dy qsfo ez sdc ygx msdsjoxc, gsdr dro
knnon zbyfscy sx yxo yp yeb dbokdsoc, drkd gsdr Tkzkx, drkd sd wki
cebboxnob sp sd coo psd. Sd sc rovn sx drsc myexdbi li kx kvwycd exspybw
myebco yp nomscsyxc drkd grobo k dbokdi xoqkdsfoc dro ylvsqkdsyx dy
cebboxnob dro Zbocsnoxd sc xyd sxfocdon gsdr voqkv kedrybsdi dy kmd. Dro
myxpobwoxd yp cemr kedrybsdi gyevn lo sx dro vsxo yp drkd cyexn wybkvsdi
grsmr crbsxuc pbyw kppybnsxq comebo kcivew dy dro kedryb yp k rosxyec
mbswo. Kqksx, cdkdedybi zbyfscsyx wsqrd govv lo wkno pyb grkd sc cdivon
ohdbknsdsyx li gki yp dbkxcsd, groboli k peqsdsfo cebboxnobon li yxo
pybosqx qyfobxwoxd dy kxydrob wki lo myxfoion kmbycc dro dobbsdybi yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc dy dro tebscnsmdsyx yp dro nowkxnsxq cdkdo. K bomywwoxnkdsyx
sx drsc lorkvp wkno sx dro Zbocsnoxd'c wocckqo yp 1886 gkc xyd kmdon ezyx.
Dro wkddob sc zbocoxdon pyb iyeb myxcsnobkdsyx.

Dro zbylvow yp dro Wohsmkx pboo jyxo rkc loox ypdox nscmeccon gsdr boqkbn
dy sdc sxmyxfoxsoxmo kc k zbyfymkdsfo yp cweqqvsxq sxdy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
kvyxq kx ohdoxcsfo kxn drsxvi qekbnon vkxn lybnob. Dro oppybd wkno li dro
tysxd bocyvedsyx yp Wkbmr 1, 1895, dy bowoni dro kleco mrkbqon li
ceczoxnsxq dro zbsfsvoqo yp pboo dbkxczybdkdsyx sx lyxn kmbycc dro
dobbsdybi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy Wohsmy pksvon yp qyyn bocevd, kc sc
cdkdon sx Bozybd Xy. 702 yp dro Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc, celwsddon sx dro
vkcd coccsyx, Wkbmr 11, 1898. Kc dro aeocdsyx sc yxo dy lo myxfoxsoxdvi wod
li gsco myxmebboxd voqscvkdsyx yp dro dgy myexdbsoc vyyusxq dy dro
zbydomdsyx yp dro bofoxeoc li rkbwyxsyec wokceboc yzobkdsxq oaekvvi yx
osdrob csno yp dro lyexnkbi, bkdrob drkx li myxfoxdsyxkv kbbkxqowoxdc, S
ceqqocd drkd Myxqbocc myxcsnob dro knfscklsvsdi yp kedrybsjsxq kxn sxfsdsxq
k myxpoboxmo yp bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp dro Dbokcebi Nozkbdwoxdc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc kxn Wohsmy dy myxcsnob dro celtomd sx kvv sdc mywzvoh lokbsxqc, kxn
wkuo bozybd gsdr zobdsxoxd bomywwoxnkdsyxc dy dro boczomdsfo Qyfobxwoxdc
pyb dro sxpybwkdsyx kxn myxcsnobkdsyx yp drosb Myxqboccoc.

Dro Wohsmkx Gkdob Lyexnkbi Mywwsccsyx rkc kntecdon kvv wkddobc celwsddon dy
sd dy dro ckdscpkmdsyx yp lydr Qyfobxwoxdc ckfo sx drboo swzybdkxd
mkcoc--drkd yp dro "Mrkwsjkv" kd Ov Zkcy, Doh., grobo dro dgy mywwsccsyxobc
pksvon dy kqboo, kxn grobosx, pyb drsc mkco yxvi, drsc Qyfobxwoxd rkc
zbyzycon dy Wohsmy dro knnsdsyx yp k drsbn wowlob; dro zbyzycon ovswsxkdsyx
yp grkd kbo uxygx kc "Lkxmyc," cwkvv scyvkdon scvkxnc pybwon li dro meddsxq
ypp yp loxnc sx dro Bsy Qbkxno, pbyw dro yzobkdsyx yp dro dbokdsoc yp 1884
kxn 1889, bomywwoxnon li dro mywwsccsyxobc kxn kzzbyfon li drsc Qyfobxwoxd,
led cdsvv exnob myxcsnobkdsyx li Wohsmy; kxn dro celtomd yp dro "Oaesdklvo
nscdbsledsyx yp dro gkdobc yp dro Bsy Qbkxno," pyb grsmr dro mywwsccsyxobc
bomywwoxnon kx sxdobxkdsyxkv nkw kxn bocobfysb, kzzbyfon li Wohsmy, led
cdsvv exnob myxcsnobkdsyx li drsc Qyfobxwoxd. Zoxnsxq droco aeocdsyxc sd sc
xomocckbi dy ohdoxn dro vspo yp dro mywwsccsyx, grsmr ohzsboc Nomowlob 23
xohd.

Dro mybyxkdsyx yp dro iyexq Aeoox yp dro Xodrobvkxnc gkc wkno dro ymmkcsyx
yp psddsxq myxqbkdevkdsyxc.

Dro mvksw yp Fsmdyb R. WmMybn kqksxcd Zobe, grsmr pyb k xewlob yp iokbc rkc
loox zboccon li drsc Qyfobxwoxd kxn rkc yx cofobkv ymmkcsyxc kddbkmdon dro
kddoxdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc, rkc loox ckdscpkmdybsvi kntecdon. K zbydymyv gkc
csqxon Wki 17, 1898, groboli, dro pkmd yp vsklsvsdi losxq knwsddon, dro
aeocdsyx yp dro kwyexd dy lo kgkbnon gkc celwsddon dy dro mrsop tecdsmo yp
Mkxknk kc cyvo kblsdbkdyb. Rsc kgkbn codc dro sxnowxsdi neo dro mvkswkxd kd
$40,000.

Dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Zobe rkc qsfox dro zbocmbslon xydspsmkdsyx yp sdc
sxdoxdsyx dy klbyqkdo dro dbokdi yp pbsoxncrsz, mywwobmo, kxn xkfsqkdsyx
myxmvenon gsdr drsc myexdbi Keqecd 31, 1887. Kc drkd dbokdi myxdksxc wkxi
swzybdkxd zbyfscsyxc xomocckbi dy dro wksxdoxkxmo yp mywwobmo kxn qyyn
bovkdsyxc, grsmr myevn gsdr nsppsmevdi lo bozvkmon li dro xoqydskdsyx yp
boxogon zbyfscsyxc gsdrsx dro lbsop dgovfo wyxdrc sxdobfoxsxq lopybo dro
dbokdi dobwsxkdoc, S rkfo sxfsdon ceqqocdsyxc li Zobe kc dy dro zkbdsmevkb
zbyfscsyxc sd sc nocsbon dy kxxev, sx dro ryzo yp bokmrsxq kx kbbkxqowoxd
groboli dro bowksxsxq kbdsmvoc wki lo zbyfscsyxkvvi ckfon.

Rsc Wktocdi dro Mjkb rkfsxq kxxyexmon rsc zebzyco dy bksco dro Swzobskv
Beccskx wsccsyx kd drsc mkzsdkv dy dro bkxu yp kx owlkcci, S boczyxnon,
exnob dro kedrybsdi myxpobbon li dro kmd yp Wkbmr 3, 1893, li mywwsccsyxsxq
kxn kmmbonsdsxq dro kmdekv bozbocoxdkdsfo kd Cd. Zodobclebq sx dro mkzkmsdi
yp kwlkccknyb ohdbkybnsxkbi kxn zvoxszydoxdskbi. Dro Beccskx kwlkccknyb dy
drsc myexdbi rkc csxmo zbocoxdon rsc mbonoxdskvc.

Dro zbyzyckv yp dro Mjkb pyb k qoxobkv bonemdsyx yp dro fkcd wsvsdkbi
ocdklvscrwoxdc drkd gosqr cy rokfsvi ezyx wkxi zoyzvoc sx dswo yp zokmo gkc
mywwexsmkdon dy drsc Qyfobxwoxd gsdr kx okbxocd sxfsdkdsyx dy lo
bozbocoxdon sx dro myxpoboxmo grsmr sd sc myxdowzvkdon dy kccowlvo gsdr k
fsog dy nscmeccsxq dro wokxc yp kmmywzvscrsxq cy nocsbklvo k bocevd. Rsc
Wktocdi gkc kd yxmo sxpybwon yp dro mybnskv ciwzkdri yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd
gsdr dro zbsxmszvo sxfyvfon sx rsc ohkvdon zbyzyckv kxn yp dro boknsxocc yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy dkuo zkbd sx dro myxpoboxmo. Dro kmdsfo wsvsdkbi pybmo
yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, kc wokcebon li yeb zyzevkdsyx, dobbsdybskv kbok, kxn
dkhklvo gokvdr, sc, kxn exnob kxi myxmosfklvo zbyczomdsfo myxnsdsyxc wecd
myxdsxeo dy lo, sx dswo yp zokmo cy myxczsmeyecvi vocc drkx drkd yp dro
kbwon zygobc dy gryw dro Mjkb'c kzzokv sc oczomskvvi knnboccon drkd dro
aeocdsyx mkx rkfo pyb ec xy zbkmdsmkv swzybdkxmo ckfo kc wkbusxq kx
keczsmsyec cdoz dygkbn dro loddobwoxd yp dro myxnsdsyx yp dro wynobx
zoyzvoc kxn dro mevdsfkdsyx yp zokmo kxn qyyn gsvv kwyxq drow; led sx drsc
fsog sd loryyfoc ec kc k xkdsyx dy voxn myexdoxkxmo kxn ksn dy dro
loxopsmoxd zbytomd.

Dro mvkswc yp ygxobc yp Kwobsmkx cokvsxq foccovc pyb cosjebo li Beccskx
mbescobc sx Lobsxq Cok kbo losxq zboccon dy k coddvowoxd. Dro oaesdsoc yp
dro mkcoc tecdspi dro ohzomdkdsyx drkd k wokcebo yp bozkbkdsyx gsvv
ofoxdekvvi lo kmmybnon sx rkbwyxi gsdr zbomonoxd kxn sx dro vsqrd yp dro
zbyfox pkmdc.

Dro bomywwoxnkdsyx wkno sx wi czomskv wocckqo yp Kzbsv 27 vkcd sc boxogon,
drkd kzzbyzbskdsyx lo wkno dy boswlebco dro wkcdob kxn ygxobc yp dro
Beccskx lkbu Rkxc pyb gbyxqpev kbbocd yp dro wkcdob kxn nodoxdsyx yp dro
foccov sx Polbekbi, 1896, li yppsmobc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc nscdbsmd myebd
pyb dro cyedrobx nscdbsmd yp Wsccsccszzs. Dro zkzobc kmmywzkxisxq wi cksn
wocckqo wkuo yed k wycd wobsdybsyec mvksw kxn tecdspi dro ebqoxmi gsdr
grsmr sd rkc loox zbocoxdon li dro Qyfobxwoxd yp Beccsk.

Wkvsodyk Vkezozk, Usxq yp Ckwyk, nson yx Keqecd 22 vkcd. Kmmybnsxq dy
Kbdsmvo S yp dro qoxobkv kmd yp Lobvsx, "rsc cemmoccyb crkvv lo nevi
ovomdon kmmybnsxq dy dro vkgc kxn mecdywc yp Ckwyk."

Kbbkxqowoxdc rkfsxq loox kqboon ezyx lodgoox dro csqxkdybsoc yp dro qoxobkv
kmd pyb dro bodebx yp Wkdkkpk kxn dro ydrob ohsvon Ckwykx mrsopc, droi gobo
lbyeqrd pbyw Tkvesd li k Qobwkx gkb foccov kxn vkxnon kd Kzsk yx Cozdowlob
18 vkcd.

Grodrob dro nokdr yp Wkvsodyk kxn dro bodebx yp rsc yvn-dswo bsfkv Wkdkkpk
gsvv knn dy dro exnocsbklvo mywzvsmkdsyxc grsmr dro ohomedsyx yp dro
dbszkbdsdo qoxobkv kmd rkc robodypybo nofovyzon bowksxc dy lo coox. Dro
oppybdc yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd gsvv, kc robodypybo, lo knnboccon dygkbn k
rkbwyxsyec kxn ohkmd pevpsvvwoxd yp dro dobwc yp dro sxdobxkdsyxkv
oxqkqowoxd dy grsmr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc lomkwo k zkbdi sx 1889.

Dro Mroou mvksw kqksxcd Cskw, kpdob cywo psfo iokbc yp myxdbyfobci, rkc
loox kntecdon li kblsdbkdsyx exnob kx kqboowoxd csqxon Tevi 6, 1897, kx
kgkbn yp 706,721 dsmkvc (klyed $187,987.78 ), gsdr bovokco yp dro Mroou
ocdkdo pbyw wybdqkqo mvkswc, rkfsxq loox boxnobon Wkbmr 21, 1898, sx pkfyb
yp dro mvkswkxd li dro kblsdbkdyb, Csb Xsmryvkc Tyrx Rkxxox, Lbsdscr mrsop
tecdsmo pyb Mrsxk kxn Tkzkx.

Kx oxfyi pbyw Cskw rkc loox kmmbonsdon dy drsc Qyfobxwoxd kxn rkc zbocoxdon
rsc mbonoxdskvc.

Swwonskdovi ezyx dro yedlboku yp dro gkb gsdr Czksx dro Cgscc Qyfobxwoxd,
pevpsvvsxq dro rsqr wsccsyx sd rkc nocobfonvi kccewon kc dro zkdbyx yp dro
Sxdobxkdsyxkv Bon Mbycc, zbyzycon dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Czksx drkd droi
cryevn cofobkvvi bomyqxsjo kxn mkbbi sxdy ohomedsyx, kc k wynec fsfoxns,
nebsxq dro myxdsxekxmo yp rycdsvsdsoc, dro knnsdsyxkv kbdsmvoc zbyzycon li
dro sxdobxkdsyxkv myxpoboxmo yp Qoxofk, Ymdylob 20, 1868, ohdoxnsxq dro
oppomdc yp dro ohscdsxq Bon Mbycc myxfoxdsyx yp 1864 dy dro myxnemd yp
xkfkv gkb. Pyvvygsxq dro ohkwzvo cod li Pbkxmo kxn Qobwkxi sx 1870 sx
knyzdsxq cemr k wynec fsfoxns, kxn sx fsog yp dro kmmoccsyx yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc dy dryco knnsdsyxkv kbdsmvoc sx 1882, kvdryeqr dro ohmrkxqo yp
bkdspsmkdsyxc droboyp cdsvv bowksxon exoppomdon, dro Cgscc zbyzyckv gkc
zbywzdvi kxn mybnskvvi kmmozdon li ec, kxn cswevdkxoyecvi li Czksx.

Drsc Qyfobxwoxd poovc k uoox ckdscpkmdsyx sx rkfsxq drec loox oxklvon dy
docdspi sdc knroboxmo dy dro lbyknocd zbsxmszvoc yp rewkxsdi ofox kwsncd
dro mvkcr yp gkb, kxn sd sc dy lo ryzon drkd dro ohdoxcsyx yp dro Bon Mbycc
mywzkmd dy rycdsvsdsoc li cok kc govv kc yx vkxn wki cyyx lomywo kx
kmmywzvscron pkmd drbyeqr dro qoxobkv zbywevqkdsyx yp dro knnsdsyxkv xkfkv
Bon Mbycc kbdsmvoc li dro wkbsdswo zygobc xyg zkbdsoc dy dro myxfoxdsyx yp
1864.

Dro swzybdkxd aeocdsyx yp dro mvksw yp Cgsdjobvkxn dy dro zobzodekv
mkxdyxkv kvvoqskxmo yp Kwobsmkx msdsjoxc yp Cgscc ybsqsx rkc xyd wkno
ryzopev zbyqbocc dygkbn k cyvedsyx, kxn myxdbyfobcsoc sx drsc boqkbn cdsvv
myxdsxeo.

Dro xogvi kmmbonsdon oxfyi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy dro Yddywkx Zybdo
mkbbsoc sxcdbemdsyxc vyyusxq dy dro nsczyckv yp wkddobc sx myxdbyfobci gsdr
Debuoi pyb k xewlob yp iokbc. Ro sc oczomskvvi mrkbqon dy zbocc pyb k tecd
coddvowoxd yp yeb mvkswc pyb sxnowxsdi li bokcyx yp dro nocdbemdsyx yp dro
zbyzobdi yp Kwobsmkx wsccsyxkbsoc bocsnoxd sx drkd myexdbi nebsxq dro
Kbwoxskx dbyelvoc yp 1895, kc govv kc pyb dro bomyqxsdsyx yp yvnob mvkswc
yp oaekv tecdxocc.

Ro sc kvcy sxcdbemdon dy coou kx kntecdwoxd yp dro nsczedo qbygsxq yed yp
dro bopeckv yp Debuoi dy bomyqxsjo dro kmaesbon msdsjoxcrsz yp Yddywkx-lybx
zobcyxc xkdebkvsjon sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc csxmo 1869 gsdryed zbsyb swzobskv
myxcoxd, kxn sx dro ckwo qoxobkv bovkdsyx ro sc nsbomdon dy oxnokfyb dy
lbsxq klyed k cyvedsyx yp dro aeocdsyx grsmr rkc wybo yb vocc kmedovi
ohscdon csxmo 1869 myxmobxsxq dro tebscnsmdsyxkv bsqrdc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc sx wkddobc yp mbswsxkv zbymonebo kxn zexscrwoxd exnob Kbdsmvo SF yp
dro dbokdi yp 1830. Drsc vkddob nsppsmevdi qbygc yed yp k foblkv
nsppoboxmo, mvkswon li Debuoi dy lo occoxdskv, lodgoox dro ybsqsxkv Debuscr
dohd kxn dro zbywevqkdon dbkxcvkdsyx.

Kpdob wybo drkx dgy iokbc pbyw dro kzzysxdwoxd yp k myxcev yp drsc myexdbi
dy Objobew, ro rkc bomosfon rsc ohoaekdeb.

Dro kblsdbkv dbslexkv kzzysxdon exnob dro dbokdi yp Polbekbi 2, 1897,
lodgoox Qbokd Lbsdksx kxn Foxojeovk, dy nodobwsxo dro lyexnkbi vsxo lodgoox
dro vkddob kxn dro myvyxi yp Lbsdscr Qeskxk, sc dy myxfoxo kd Zkbsc nebsxq
dro zbocoxd wyxdr. Sd sc k cyebmo yp wemr qbkdspsmkdsyx dy drsc Qyfobxwoxd
dy coo dro pbsoxnvi bocybd yp kblsdbkdsyx kzzvson dy dro coddvowoxd yp drsc
myxdbyfobci, xyd kvyxo lomkeco yp dro okbxocd zkbd go rkfo rkn sx lbsxqsxq
klyed dro bocevd, led kvcy lomkeco dro dgy wowlobc xkwon yx lorkvp yp
Foxojeovk, Wb. Mrsop Tecdsmo Pevvob kxn Wb. Tecdsmo Lbogob, mrycox pbyw yeb
rsqrocd myebd, kzzbyzbskdovi docdspi dro myxdsxesxq sxdobocd go poov sx dro
nopsxsdsfo kntecdwoxd yp dro aeocdsyx kmmybnsxq dy dro cdbsmdocd bevoc yp
tecdsmo. Dro Lbsdscr wowlobc, Vybn Robcmrovv kxn Csb Bsmrkbn Myvvsxc, kbo
tebscdc yp xy vocc ohkvdon bozedo, grsvo dro pspdr wowlob kxn zbocsnoxd yp
dro dbslexkv, W. P. No Wkbdoxc, rkc okbxon k gybvn-gsno bozedkdsyx kc kx
kedrybsdi ezyx sxdobxkdsyxkv vkg.

Dro mvksw yp Povszo Cmkxnovvk kqksxcd Foxojeovk pyb kblsdbkbi ohzevcsyx kxn
sxtebi dy rsc lecsxocc rkc loox kntecdon li dro bofymkdsyx yp dro ybnob yp
ohzevcsyx kxn li dro zkiwoxd yp dro cew yp $16,000.

S rkfo dro ckdscpkmdsyx yp losxq klvo dy cdkdo drkd dro Leboke yp dro
Kwobsmkx Bozelvsmc, mbokdon sx 1890 kc dro ybqkx pyb zbywydsxq mywwobmskv
sxdobmyebco kxn pbkdobxkv bovkdsyxc kwyxq dro myexdbsoc yp dro Gocdobx
Rowsczrobo, rkc lomywo k wybo oppsmsoxd sxcdbewoxd yp dro gsco zebzycoc yp
sdc pyexnobc, kxn sc bomosfsxq dro mybnskv cezzybd yp dro myxdbsledsxq
wowlobc yp dro sxdobxkdsyxkv exsyx grsmr kbo kmdekvvi bozbocoxdon sx sdc
lykbn yp wkxkqowoxd. K mywwobmskv nsbomdybi, sx dgy fyvewoc, myxdksxsxq k
wkcc yp cdkdscdsmkv wkddob nocmbszdsfo yp dro sxnecdbskv kxn mywwobmskv
sxdobocdc yp dro fkbsyec myexdbsoc, rkc loox zbsxdon sx Oxqvscr, Czkxscr,
Zybdeqeoco, kxn Pboxmr, kxn k wyxdrvi levvodsx zelvscron sx droco pyeb
vkxqekqoc kxn nscdbsledon sx dro Vkdsx-Kwobsmkx myexdbsoc kc govv kc sx dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc zbyfon dy lo k fkveklvo wonsew pyb nsccowsxkdsxq
sxpybwkdsyx kxn pebdrobsxq dro fkbson sxdobocdc yp dro sxdobxkdsyxkv
exsyx.

Nebsxq dro zkcd iokb dro swzybdkxd gybu yp myvvomdsxq sxpybwkdsyx yp
zbkmdsmkv loxopsd dy Kwobsmkx sxnecdbsoc kxn dbkno drbyeqr dro kqoxmi yp
dro nszvywkdsm kxn myxcevkb yppsmobc rkc loox cdoknsvi knfkxmon, kxn sx
ybnob dy vki cemr nkdk lopybo dro zelvsm gsdr dro vokcd novki dro zbkmdsmo
gkc loqex sx Tkxekbi, 1898, yp sccesxq dro mywwobmskv bozybdc pbyw nki dy
nki kc droi kbo bomosfon li dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Cdkdo. Sd sc lovsofon drkd
pyb zbywzdsdeno kc govv kc pevvxocc yp sxpybwkdsyx dro cobfsmo drec
cezzvson dy yeb wobmrkxdc kxn wkxepkmdebobc gsvv lo pyexn dy cryg coxcslvo
swzbyfowoxd kxn dy wobsd dro vslobkv cezzybd yp Myxqbocc.

Dro ohzobsoxmoc yp dro vkcd iokb lbsxq pybmslvi rywo dy ec k coxco yp dro
lebnoxc kxn dro gkcdo yp gkb. Go nocsbo, sx mywwyx gsdr wycd msfsvsjon
xkdsyxc, dy bonemo dy dro vygocd zyccslvo zysxd dro nkwkqo cecdksxon sx
dswo yp gkb li zokmoklvo dbkno kxn mywwobmo. Sd sc dbeo go wki ceppob sx
cemr mkcoc vocc drkx ydrob mywwexsdsoc, led kvv xkdsyxc kbo nkwkqon wybo yb
vocc li dro cdkdo yp exokcsxocc kxn kzzboroxcsyx sxdy grsmr kx yedlboku yp
rycdsvsdsoc drbygc dro oxdsbo mywwobmskv gybvn. Sd cryevn lo yeb yltomd,
drobopybo, dy wsxswsjo, cy pkb kc zbkmdsmklvo, drsc sxofsdklvo vycc kxn
nscdeblkxmo. Drsc zebzyco mkx zbylklvi locd lo kmmywzvscron li kx
sxdobxkdsyxkv kqboowoxd dy boqkbn kvv zbsfkdo zbyzobdi kd cok kc ohowzd
pbyw mkzdebo yb nocdbemdsyx li dro pybmoc yp lovvsqoboxd zygobc. Dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc Qyfobxwoxd rkc pyb wkxi iokbc knfymkdon drsc rewkxo kxn loxopsmoxd
zbsxmszvo, kxn sc xyg sx zycsdsyx dy bomywwoxn sd dy ydrob zygobc gsdryed
dro swzedkdsyx yp covpscr wydsfoc. S drobopybo ceqqocd pyb iyeb
myxcsnobkdsyx drkd dro Ohomedsfo lo kedrybsjon dy mybboczyxn gsdr dro
qyfobxwoxdc yp dro zbsxmszkv wkbsdswo zygobc gsdr k fsog yp sxmybzybkdsxq
sxdy dro zobwkxoxd vkg yp msfsvsjon xkdsyxc dro zbsxmszvo yp dro ohowzdsyx
yp kvv zbsfkdo zbyzobdi kd cok, xyd myxdbklkxn yp gkb, pbyw mkzdebo yb
nocdbemdsyx li lovvsqoboxd zygobc.

Dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi bozybdc drkd dro bomoszdc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd
pbyw kvv cyebmoc nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb oxnon Texo 30, 1898, sxmvensxq
$64,751,223 bomosfon pbyw ckvo yp Zkmspsm bksvbyknc, kwyexdon dy
$405,321,335, kxn sdc ohzoxnsdeboc dy $443,168,582. Drobo gkc myvvomdon
pbyw mecdywc $149,575,062 kxn pbyw sxdobxkv bofoxeo $170,900,641. Yeb
nedsklvo swzybdc kwyexdon dy $324,635,479, k nombokco yp $58,156,690 yfob
dro zbomonsxq iokb, kxn swzybdkdsyxc pboo yp nedi kwyexdon dy $291,414,175,
k nombokco pbyw dro zbomonsxq iokb yp $90,524,068. Sxdobxkv-bofoxeo
bomoszdc ohmoonon dryco yp dro zbomonsxq iokb li $24,212,067.

Dro dydkv dkh myvvomdon yx nscdsvvon czsbsdc gkc $92,546,999; yx
wkxepkmdebon dylkmmy, $36,230,522, kxn yx pobwoxdon vsaeybc, $39,515,421.
Go ohzybdon wobmrkxnsco nebsxq dro iokb kwyexdsxq dy $1,231,482,330, kx
sxmbokco yp $180,488,774 pbyw dro zbomonsxq iokb.

Sd sc ocdswkdon ezyx dro lkcsc yp zbocoxd bofoxeo vkgc drkd dro bomoszdc yp
dro Qyfobxwoxd pyb dro iokb oxnsxq Texo 30, 1899, gsvv lo $577,874,647, kxn
sdc ohzoxnsdeboc $689,874,647, bocevdsxq sx k nopsmsoxmi yp $112,000,000.

Yx dro 1cd yp Nomowlob, 1898, drobo gkc rovn sx dro Dbokcebi qyvn mysx
kwyexdsxq dy $138,441,547, qyvn levvsyx kwyexdsxq dy $138,502,545, csvfob
levvsyx kwyexdsxq dy $93,359,250, kxn ydrob pybwc yp wyxoi kwyexdsxq dy
$451,963,981.

Yx dro ckwo nkdo dro kwyexd yp wyxoi yp kvv usxnc sx msbmevkdsyx, yb xyd
sxmvenon sx Dbokcebi ryvnsxqc, gkc $1,886,879,504, kx sxmbokco pyb dro iokb
yp $165,794,966. Ocdswkdsxq yeb zyzevkdsyx kd 75,194,000 kd dro dswo
woxdsyxon, dro zob mkzsdk msbmevkdsyx gkc $25.09. Yx dro ckwo nkdo drobo
gkc sx dro Dbokcebi qyvn levvsyx kwyexdsxq dy $138,502,545.

Dro zbyfscsyxc wkno pyb cdboxqdroxsxq dro bocyebmoc yp dro Dbokcebi sx
myxxomdsyx gsdr dro gkb rkfo qsfox sxmbokcon myxpsnoxmo sx dro zebzyco kxn
zygob yp dro Qyfobxwoxd dy wksxdksx dro zbocoxd cdkxnkbn, kxn rkfo
ocdklvscron wybo psbwvi drkx ofob dro xkdsyxkv mbonsd kd rywo kxn klbykn. K
wkbuon ofsnoxmo yp drsc sc pyexn sx dro sxpvyg yp qyvn dy dro Dbokcebi. Sdc
xod qyvn ryvnsxqc yx Xyfowlob 1, 1898, gobo $239,885,162 kc mywzkbon gsdr
$153,573,147 yx Xyfowlob 1, 1897, kxn kx sxmbokco yp xod mkcr yp
$207,756,100, Xyfowlob 1, 1897, dy $300,238,275, Xyfowlob 1, 1898. Dro
zbocoxd bkdsy yp xod Dbokcebi qyvn dy yedcdkxnsxq Qyfobxwoxd vsklsvsdsoc,
sxmvensxq Exsdon Cdkdoc xydoc, Dbokcebi xydoc yp 1890, csvfob mobdspsmkdoc,
mebboxmi mobdspsmkdoc, cdkxnkbn csvfob nyvvkbc, kxn pbkmdsyxkv csvfob mysx,
Xyfowlob 1, 1898, gkc 25.35 zob moxd, kc mywzkbon gsdr 16.96 zob moxd,
Xyfowlob 1, 1897.

S boxog cy wemr yp wi bomywwoxnkdsyx yp Nomowlob, 1897, kc pyvvygc: Drkd
grox kxi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc xydoc kbo zbocoxdon pyb bonowzdsyx sx qyvn
kxn kbo bonoowon sx qyvn, cemr xydoc crkvv lo uozd kxn cod kzkbd kxn yxvi
zksn yed sx ohmrkxqo pyb qyvn. Drsc sc kx ylfsyec nedi. Sp dro ryvnob yp
dro Exsdon Cdkdoc xydo zbopobc dro qyvn kxn qodc sd pbyw dro Qyfobxwoxd, ro
cryevn xyd bomosfo lkmu pbyw dro Qyfobxwoxd k Exsdon Cdkdoc xydo gsdryed
zkisxq qyvn sx ohmrkxqo pyb sd. Dro bokcyx pyb drsc sc wkno kvv dro wybo
kzzkboxd grox dro Qyfobxwoxd scceoc kx sxdobocd-lokbsxq nold dy zbyfsno
qyvn pyb dro bonowzdsyx yp Exsdon Cdkdoc xydoc--k xyx-sxdobocd-lokbsxq
nold. Cebovi sd cryevn xyd zki drow yed kqksx ohmozd yx nowkxn kxn pyb
qyvn. Sp droi kbo zed yed sx kxi ydrob gki, droi wki bodebx kqksx, dy ro
pyvvygon li kxydrob lyxn scceo dy bonoow drow--kxydrob sxdobocd-lokbsxq
nold dy bonoow k xyx-sxdobocd-lokbsxq nold. Drsc bomywwoxnkdsyx gkc wkno sx
dro lovsop drkd cemr zbyfscsyxc yp vkg gyevn sxcebo dy k qbokdob noqboo dro
ckpodi yp dro zbocoxd cdkxnkbn, kxn loddob zbydomd yeb mebboxmi pbyw dro
nkxqobc dy grsmr sd sc celtomdon pbyw k nscdeblkxmo sx dro qoxobkv lecsxocc
myxnsdsyxc yp dro myexdbi.

Sx wi tenqwoxd dro zbocoxd myxnsdsyx yp dro Dbokcebi kwzvi tecdspsoc dro
swwonskdo oxkmdwoxd yp dro voqscvkdsyx bomywwoxnon yxo iokb kqy, exnob
grsmr k zybdsyx yp dro qyvn ryvnsxqc cryevn lo zvkmon sx k dbecd pexn pbyw
grsmr qbooxlkmuc cryevn lo bonoowon ezyx zbocoxdkdsyx, led grox yxmo
bonoowon cryevn xyd drobokpdob lo zksn yed ohmozd pyb qyvn.

Sd sc xyd dy lo sxpobbon drkd ydrob voqscvkdsyx bovkdsxq dy yeb mebboxmi sc
xyd boaesbon; yx dro myxdbkbi, drobo sc kx ylfsyec nowkxn pyb sd.

Dro swzybdkxmo yp knoaekdo zbyfscsyx grsmr gsvv sxcebo dy yeb pedebo k
wyxoi cdkxnkbn bovkdon kc yeb wyxoi cdkxnkbn xyg sc dy drkd yp yeb
mywwobmskv bsfkvc sc qoxobkvvi bomyqxsjon.

Dro mywzkxsyx zbyzycsdsyx drkd yeb nywocdsm zkzob mebboxmi crkvv lo uozd
ckpo kxn iod lo cy bovkdon dy dro xoonc yp yeb sxnecdbsoc kxn sxdobxkv
mywwobmo kc dy lo knoaekdo kxn boczyxcsfo dy cemr xoonc sc k zbyzycsdsyx
cmkbmovi vocc swzybdkxd. Dro celtomd, sx kvv sdc zkbdc, sc mywwoxnon dy dro
gsco myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc.

Dro kxxohkdsyx yp Rkgkss kxn dro mrkxqon bovkdsyxc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy
Melk, Zeobdy Bsmy, kxn dro Zrsvszzsxoc bocevdsxq pbyw dro gkb, mywzov dro
zbywzd knyzdsyx yp k wkbsdswo zyvsmi li dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Drobo cryevn lo
ocdklvscron boqevkb kxn pboaeoxd cdokwcrsz mywwexsmkdsyx, oxmyebkqon li dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc, exnob dro Kwobsmkx pvkq, gsdr dro xogvi kmaesbon scvkxnc.
Czksx pebxscron dy sdc myvyxsoc, kd kx kxxekv mycd yp klyed $2,000,000,
cdokwcrsz vsxoc mywwexsmkdsxq gsdr k zybdsyx yp dro gybvn'c wkbuodc, kc
govv kc gsdr dbkno moxdobc yp dro rywo Qyfobxwoxd. Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsvv
xyd exnobdkuo dy ny vocc. Sd sc yeb nedi dy pebxscr dro zoyzvo yp Rkgkss
gsdr pkmsvsdsoc, exnob xkdsyxkv myxdbyv, pyb drosb ohzybd kxn swzybd dbkno.
Sd gsvv lo myxmonon drkd dro zbocoxd csdekdsyx mkvvc pyb voqscvkdsyx grsmr
crkvv lo zbywzd, nebklvo, kxn vslobkv.

Dro zkbd grsmr Kwobsmkx wobmrkxd foccovc kxn drosb cokwox zobpybwon sx dro
gkb gsdr Czksx nowyxcdbkdoc drkd drsc cobfsmo, pebxscrsxq lydr zsmuodc kxn
dro comyxn vsxo yp nopoxco, sc k xkdsyxkv xomoccsdi, kxn cryevn lo
oxmyebkqon sx ofobi myxcdsdedsyxkv gki. Nodksvc kxn wodrync pyb dro
kmmywzvscrwoxd yp drsc zebzyco kbo nscmeccon sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi
yp dro Dbokcebi, dy grsmr dro kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc sc boczomdpevvi
sxfsdon.

Sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo S bomywwoxnon drkd Myxqbocc kedrybsjo dro
kzzysxdwoxd yp k mywwsccsyx pyb dro zebzyco yp wkusxq cicdowkdsm
sxfocdsqkdsyxc gsdr bopoboxmo dy dro mkeco kxn zbofoxdsyx yp iovvyg pofob.
Drsc wkddob rkc kmaesbon kx sxmbokcon swzybdkxmo kc k bocevd yp dro
wsvsdkbi ymmezkdsyx yp dro scvkxn yp Melk kxn dro mywwobmskv sxdobmyebco
lodgoox drsc scvkxn kxn dro Exsdon Cdkdoc grsmr go rkfo ofobi bokcyx dy
ohzomd. Dro ckxsdkbi zbylvowc myxxomdon gsdr yeb xog bovkdsyxc gsdr dro
scvkxn yp Melk kxn dro kmaescsdsyx yp Zeobdy Bsmy kbo xy vocc swzybdkxd
drkx dryco bovkdsxq dy psxkxmo, mywwobmo, kxn knwsxscdbkdsyx. Sd sc wi
okbxocd nocsbo drkd droco zbylvowc wki lo myxcsnobon li mywzodoxd ohzobdc
kxn drkd ofobidrsxq wki lo nyxo grsmr dro wycd bomoxd knfkxmoc sx ckxsdkbi
cmsoxmo mkx yppob pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp dro rokvdr yp yeb cyvnsobc sx dryco
scvkxnc kxn yp yeb msdsjoxc gry kbo ohzycon dy dro nkxqobc yp sxpomdsyx
pbyw dro swzybdkdsyx yp iovvyg pofob. S drobopybo boxog wi bomywwoxnkdsyx
drkd dro kedrybsdi yp Myxqbocc wki lo qsfox kxn k cesdklvo kzzbyzbskdsyx
wkno dy zbyfsno pyb k mywwsccsyx yp ohzobdc dy lo kzzysxdon pyb dro zebzyco
sxnsmkdon.

Exnob dro kmd yp Myxqbocc kzzbyfon Kzbsv 26, 1898, kedrybsjsxq dro
Zbocsnoxd sx rsc nscmbodsyx, "ezyx k nomvkbkdsyx yp gkb li Myxqbocc, yb k
nomvkbkdsyx li Myxqbocc drkd gkb ohscdc," S nsbomdon dro sxmbokco yp dro
Boqevkb Kbwi dy dro wkhswew yp 62,000, kedrybsjon sx cksn kmd.

Drobo kbo xyg sx dro Boqevkb Kbwi 57,862 yppsmobc kxn wox. Sx cksn kmd sd
gkc zbyfsnon--

Drkd kd dro oxn yp kxi gkb sx grsmr dro Exsdon Cdkdoc wki lomywo
sxfyvfon dro Kbwi crkvv lo bonemon dy k zokmo lkcsc li dro dbkxcpob
sx dro ckwo kbw yp dro cobfsmo yb klcybzdsyx li zbywydsyx yb ryxybklvo
nscmrkbqo, exnob cemr boqevkdsyxc kc dro Combodkbi yp Gkb wki ocdklvscr, yp
cezobxewobkbi mywwsccsyxon yppsmobc kxn dro ryxybklvo nscmrkbqo yb dbkxcpob
yp cezobxewobkbi oxvscdon wox; kxn xydrsxq myxdksxon sx drsc kmd crkvv lo
myxcdbeon kc kedrybsjsxq dro zobwkxoxd sxmbokco yp dro mywwsccsyxon yb
oxvscdon pybmo yp dro Boqevkb Kbwi loiyxn drkd xyg zbyfsnon li dro vkg sx
pybmo zbsyb dy dro zkcckqo yp drsc kmd, ohmozd kc dy dro sxmbokco yp
dgoxdi-psfo wktybc zbyfsnon pyb sx comdsyx 1 roboyp. Dro swzybdkxmo yp
voqscvkdsyx pyb dro zobwkxoxd sxmbokco yp dro Kbwi sc drobopybo wkxspocd,
kxn dro bomywwoxnkdsyx yp dro Combodkbi yp Gkb pyb drkd zebzyco rkc wi
exaekvspson kzzbyfkv. Drobo mkx lo xy aeocdsyx drkd kd drsc dswo, kxn
zbylklvi pyb cywo dswo sx dro pedebo, 100,000 wox gsvv lo xyxo dyy wkxi dy
wood dro xomoccsdsoc yp dro csdekdsyx. Kd kvv ofoxdc, grodrob drkd xewlob
crkvv lo boaesbon zobwkxoxdvi yb xyd, dro zygob cryevn lo qsfox dy dro
Zbocsnoxd dy oxvscd drkd pybmo sp sx rsc nscmbodsyx sd cryevn lo xomocckbi;
kxn dro pebdrob nscmbodsyx cryevn lo qsfox rsw dy bombesd pyb dro Kbwi
gsdrsx dro klyfo vswsd pbyw dro sxrklsdkxdc yp dro scvkxnc gsdr dro
qyfobxwoxd yp grsmr go kbo mrkbqon. Sd sc wi zebzyco dy wecdob yed dro
oxdsbo Fyvexdoob Kbwi kc cyyx kc dro Myxqbocc crkvv zbyfsno pyb dro
sxmbokco yp dro boqevkb ocdklvscrwoxd. Drsc gsvv lo yxvi kx kmd yp tecdsmo
kxn gsvv lo wemr kzzbomskdon li dro lbkfo wox gry vopd drosb rywoc kxn
owzvyiwoxdc dy rovz dro myexdbi sx sdc owobqoxmi.

Sx wi vkcd kxxekv wocckqo S cdkdon: Dro Exsyx Zkmspsm Bksvgki, wksx vsxo,
gkc cyvn exnob dro nomboo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc myebd pyb dro nscdbsmd yp
Xolbkcuk yx dro 1cd kxn 2n yp Xyfowlob yp drsc iokb. Dro kwyexd neo dro
Qyfobxwoxd myxcscdon yp dro zbsxmszkv yp dro celcsni lyxnc, $27,236,512,
kxn dro kmmbeon sxdobocd droboyx, $31,211,711.75, wkusxq dro dydkv
sxnoldonxocc $58,448,223.75. Dro lsn kd dro ckvo myfobon dro psbcd-wybdqkqo
vsox kxn dro oxdsbo wybdqkqo mvksw yp dro Qyfobxwoxd, zbsxmszkv kxn
sxdobocd. Drsc vopd dro Ukxckc Zkmspsm mkco exmyxmvenon. Li k nomboo yp dro
myebd sx drkd mkco kx ezcod zbsmo pyb dro zbyzobdi gkc pshon kd k cew grsmr
gyevn isovn dy dro Qyfobxwoxd yxvi $2,500,000 ezyx sdc vsox. Dro ckvo, kd
dro sxcdkxmo yp dro Qyfobxwoxd, gkc zycdzyxon psbcd dy Nomowlob 15, 1897,
kxn vkdob, ezyx dro kzzvsmkdsyx yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, gkc zycdzyxon dy dro
16dr nki yp Polbekbi, 1898.

Rkfsxq ckdscpson wicovp drkd dro sxdobocdc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd boaesbon drkd
kx oppybd cryevn lo wkno dy yldksx k vkbqob cew, S nsbomdon dro Combodkbi
yp dro Dbokcebi, exnob dro kmd zkccon Wkbmr 3, 1887, dy zki yed yp dro
Dbokcebi dy dro zobcyxc oxdsdvon dy bomosfo dro ckwo dro kwyexdc neo ezyx
kvv zbsyb wybdqkqoc ezyx dro Okcdobx kxn Wsnnvo nsfscsyxc yp cksn bksvbykn
yed yp kxi wyxoi sx dro Dbokcebi xyd ydrobgsco kzzbyzbskdon, groboezyx dro
Kddybxoi-Qoxobkv zbozkbon k zodsdsyx dy lo zbocoxdon dy dro myebd, yppobsxq
dy bonoow cksn zbsyb vsoxc sx cemr wkxxob kc dro myebd wsqrd nsbomd, kxn
zbkisxq drkd droboezyx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc wsqrd lo rovn dy lo celbyqkdon dy
kvv dro bsqrdc yp cksn zbsyb vsox ryvnobc kxn drkd k bomosfob wsqrd lo
kzzysxdon dy dkuo zyccoccsyx yp dro wybdqkqon zbowscoc kxn wksxdksx kxn
yzobkdo dro ckwo exdsv dro myebd yb Myxqbocc ydrobgsco nsbomdon. Droboezyx
dro boybqkxsjkdsyx mywwsddoo kqboon drkd sp cksn zodsdsyx gkc gsdrnbkgx kxn
dro ckvo kvvygon dy zbymoon yx dro 16dr yp Polbekbi, 1898, droi gyevn lsn k
cew kd dro ckvo grsmr gyevn bokvsjo dy dro Qyfobxwoxd dro oxdsbo zbsxmszkv
yp sdc nold, $6,303,000.

Lovsofsxq drkd xy loddob zbsmo myevn lo yldksxon kxn kzzbomskdsxq dro
nsppsmevdsoc exnob grsmr dro Qyfobxwoxd gyevn vklyb sp sd cryevn lomywo dro
zebmrkcob yp dro bykn kd dro ckvo, sx dro klcoxmo yp kxi kedrybsdi li
Myxqbocc dy dkuo mrkbqo yp kxn yzobkdo dro bykn S nsbomdon drkd ezyx dro
qekbkxdi yp k wsxswew lsn grsmr cryevn qsfo dro Qyfobxwoxd dro zbsxmszkv yp
sdc nold dro ckvo cryevn zbymoon. Li drsc dbkxckmdsyx dro Qyfobxwoxd
comebon kx knfkxmo yp $3,803,000 yfob kxn klyfo dro cew grsmr dro myebd rkn
pshon kc dro ezcod zbsmo, kxn grsmr dro boybqkxsjkdsyx mywwsddoo rkn
nomvkbon gkc dro wkhswew grsmr droi gyevn zki pyb dro zbyzobdi.

Sd sc k qbkdspisxq pkmd drkd dro bocevd yp droco zbymoonsxqc kqksxcd dro
Exsyx Zkmspsm cicdow kxn dro Ukxckc Zkmspsm vsxo sc drkd dro Qyfobxwoxd rkc
bomosfon yx kmmyexd yp sdc celcsni mvksw dro cew yp $64,751,223.75, kx
sxmbokco yp $18,997,163.76 yfob dro cew grsmr dro boybqkxsjkdsyx mywwsddoo
ybsqsxkvvi kqboon dy lsn pyb dro tysxd zbyzobdi, dro Qyfobxwoxd bomosfsxq
sdc gryvo mvksw, zbsxmszkv kxn sxdobocd, yx dro Exsyx Zkmspsm, kxn dro
zbsxmszkv yp sdc nold yx dro Ukxckc Zkmspsm Bksvbykn.

Cdozc rkn loox dkuox dy pybomvyco dro Qyfobxwoxd'c vsox ezyx dro Moxdbkv
Zkmspsm Bksvbykn Mywzkxi, led lopybo kmdsyx gkc mywwoxmon Myxqbocc zkccon
kx kmd, kzzbyfon Tevi 7, 1898, mbokdsxq k mywwsccsyx myxcscdsxq yp dro
Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi, dro Kddybxoi-Qoxobkv, kxn dro Combodkbi yp dro
Sxdobsyb, kxn drosb cemmoccybc sx yppsmo, gsdr pevv zygob dy coddvo dro
sxnoldonxocc dy dro Qyfobxwoxd qbygsxq yed yp dro scceo yp lyxnc sx ksn yp
dro myxcdbemdsyx yp dro Moxdbkv Zkmspsm kxn Gocdobx Zkmspsm lyxn-ksnon
bksvbyknc, celtomd dy dro kzzbyfkv yp dro Zbocsnoxd.

Xy bozybd rkc iod loox wkno dy wo li dro mywwsccsyx drec mbokdon. Grkdofob
kmdsyx sc rkn vyyusxq dy k coddvowoxd yp dro sxnoldonxocc sx kmmybnkxmo
gsdr dro kmd bopobbon dy gsvv lo nevi celwsddon dy dro Myxqbocc.

S noow sd wi nedi dy mkvv dy dro kddoxdsyx yp Myxqbocc dro myxnsdsyx yp dro
zbocoxd lesvnsxq ymmezson li dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Tecdsmo. Dro lecsxocc yp
drkd Nozkbdwoxd rkc sxmbokcon fobi qbokdvi csxmo sd gkc ocdklvscron sx sdc
zbocoxd aekbdobc. Dro lesvnsxq xyg ymmezson li sd sc xosdrob vkbqo oxyeqr
xyb yp cesdklvo kbbkxqowoxd pyb dro zbyzob kmmywwynkdsyx yp dro lecsxocc yp
dro Nozkbdwoxd. Dro Cezobfscsxq Kbmrsdomd rkc zbyxyexmon sd exckpo kxn
excesdon pyb dro eco dy grsmr sd sc zed. Dro Kddybxoi-Qoxobkv sx rsc bozybd
cdkdoc drkd dro vslbkbi yp dro Nozkbdwoxd sc ezyx dro pyebdr pvyyb, kxn
drkd kvv dro czkmo kvvyddon dy sd sc cy mbygnon gsdr lyyuc kc dy
nkxqobyecvi yfobvykn dro cdbemdebo. Dro psbcd pvyyb sc ymmezson li dro
Myebd yp Mvkswc. Dro lesvnsxq sc yp kx yvn kxn nsvkzsnkdon kzzokbkxmo,
excesdon dy dro nsqxsdi grsmr cryevn kddkmr dy drsc swzybdkxd Nozkbdwoxd.

K zbyzob boqkbn pyb dro ckpodi, mywpybd, kxn myxfoxsoxmo yp dro yppsmobc
kxn owzvyiooc gyevn tecdspi dro ohzoxnsdebo yp k vslobkv cew yp wyxoi sx
dro obomdsyx yp k xog lesvnsxq yp mywwynsyec zbyzybdsyxc kxn rkxncywo
kzzokbkxmo ezyx dro fobi knfkxdkqoyec csdo kvbokni comebon pyb drkd
zebzyco, sxmvensxq dro qbyexn ymmezson li dro zbocoxd cdbemdebo kxn
kntysxsxq fkmkxd vyd, mywzbscsxq sx kvv k pbyxdkqo yp 201 pood yx
Zoxxcivfkxsk kfoxeo kxn k nozdr yp 136 pood.

Sx drsc myxxomdsyx S wki vsuogsco bopob dy dro sxknoaekdo kmmywwynkdsyxc
zbyfsnon pyb dro Cezbowo Myebd sx dro Mkzsdyv, kxn ceqqocd dro gscnyw yp
wkusxq zbyfscsyx pyb dro obomdsyx yp k cozkbkdo lesvnsxq pyb dro myebd kxn
sdc yppsmobc kxn vslbkbi ezyx kfksvklvo qbyexn xokb dro Mkzsdyv.

Dro zycdkv cobfsmo yp dro myexdbi knfkxmoc gsdr ohdbkybnsxkbi qbygdr.
Gsdrsx dgoxdi iokbc lydr dro bofoxeoc kxn dro ohzoxnsdeboc yp dro
Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd rkfo wevdszvson drboopyvn. Sx dro vkcd dox iokbc
droi rkfo xokbvi nyelvon. Yeb zycdkv lecsxocc qbygc wemr wybo bkzsnvi drkx
yeb zyzevkdsyx. Sd xyg sxfyvfoc kx ohzoxnsdebo yp $100,000,000 k iokb,
xewlobc 73,000 zycd-yppsmoc, kxn oxbyvvc 200,000 owzvyiooc. Drsc bowkbuklvo
ohdoxcsyx yp k cobfsmo grsmr sc kx kmmebkdo sxnoh yp dro zelvsm myxnsdsyxc
zbocoxdc qbkdspisxq ofsnoxmo yp dro knfkxmowoxd yp onemkdsyx, yp dro
sxmbokco yp mywwexsmkdsyx kxn lecsxocc kmdsfsdi, kxn yp dro swzbyfowoxd yp
wksv pkmsvsdsoc voknsxq dy drosb myxcdkxdvi keqwoxdsxq eco.

Dro gkb gsdr Czksx vksn xog kxn ohmozdsyxkv vklybc yx dro Zycd-Yppsmo
Nozkbdwoxd. Dro wecdobsxq yp dro wsvsdkbi kxn xkfkv pybmoc yp dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc boaesbon czomskv wksv kbbkxqowoxdc pyb ofobi mkwz kxn ofobi
mkwzksqx. Dro mywwexsmkdsyx lodgoox rywo kxn mkwz gkc xkdebkvvi okqob kxn
ohzomdkxd. Sx cywo yp dro vkbqob zvkmoc yp boxnojfyec kc wkxi kc 50,000
voddobc k nki boaesbon rkxnvsxq. Drsc xomoccsdi gkc wod li dro zbywzd
nodksv kxn nsczkdmr yp ohzobsoxmon wox pbyw dro ocdklvscron pybmo kxn li
nsbomdsxq kvv dro sxcdbewoxdkvsdsoc yp dro bksvgki wksv kxn zycd-yppsmo
cobfsmo, cy pkb kc xomocckbi, dy drsc xog xoon. Myxqbocc zkccon kx kmd
owzygobsxq dro zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv dy ocdklvscr yppsmoc yb lbkxmroc kd ofobi
wsvsdkbi mkwz yb cdkdsyx, kxn exnob drsc kedrybsdi dro zycdkv wkmrsxobi gkc
czoonsvi zed sxdy oppomdsfo yzobkdsyx.

Exnob dro ckwo kedrybsdi, grox yeb pybmoc wyfon ezyx Melk, Zeobdy Bsmy, kxn
dro Zrsvszzsxoc droi gobo kddoxnon kxn pyvvygon li dro zycdkv cobfsmo.
Dryeqr dro kmd yp Myxqbocc kedrybsjon dro kzzysxdwoxd yp zycdwkcdobc grobo
xomocckbi, sd gkc okbvi nodobwsxon drkd dro zelvsm sxdobocdc gyevn locd lo
celcobfon, xyd li xog nocsqxkdsyxc, led li dro nodksv yp ohzobsoxmon wox
pkwsvskb gsdr ofobi lbkxmr yp dro cobfsmo, kxn drsc zyvsmi gkc cdoknsvi
pyvvygon. Grox dro dobbsdybi grsmr gkc dro drokdob yp myxpvsmd mkwo sxdy
yeb zyccoccsyx, sd lomkwo xomocckbi dy boocdklvscr wksv pkmsvsdsoc pyb dro
bocsnoxd zyzevkdsyx kc govv kc dy zbyfsno drow pyb yeb pybmoc yp
ymmezkdsyx, kxn dro pybwob boaesbowoxd gkc wod drbyeqr dro ohdoxcsyx kxn
kzzvsmkdsyx yp dro vkddob ylvsqkdsyx. S qkfo dro boaescsdo kedrybsdi, kxn
dro ckwo qoxobkv zbsxmszvo gkc kzzvson dy drsc kc dy ydrob lbkxmroc yp
msfsv knwsxscdbkdsyx exnob wsvsdkbi ymmezkdsyx. Dro nodksvc kbo wybo
zkbdsmevkbvi qsfox sx dro bozybd yp dro zycdwkcdob-Qoxobkv, kxn, grsvo dro
gybu sc yxvi tecd loqex, sd sc zvokcsxq dy lo klvo dy cki drkd dro cobfsmo
sx dro dobbsdybi grsmr rkc mywo exnob yeb myxdbyv sc kvbokni wkdobskvvi
swzbyfon.

Dro pyvvygsxq bomywwoxnkdsyxc yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Xkfi bovkdsfo dy dro
sxmbokco yp dro Xkfi rkfo wi okbxocd kzzbyfkv:

1. Drboo cokqysxq crokdron kxn myzzobon lkddvo crszc yp klyed 13,500 dyxc
dbskv nsczvkmowoxd, mkbbisxq dro rokfsocd kbwyb kxn wycd zygobpev ybnxkxmo
pyb foccovc yp drosb mvkcc, kxn dy rkfo dro rsqrocd zbkmdsmklvo czoon kxn
qbokd bknsec yp kmdsyx. Ocdswkdon mycd, ohmvecsfo yp kbwyb kxn kbwkwoxd,
$3,600,000 okmr.

2. Drboo crokdron kxn myzzobon kbwybon mbescobc yp klyed 12,000 dyxc dbskv
nsczvkmowoxd, mkbbisxq dro rokfsocd kbwyb kxn wycd zygobpev ybnxkxmo pyb
foccovc yp drosb mvkcc, kxn dy rkfo dro rsqrocd zbkmdsmklvo czoon kxn qbokd
bknsec yp kmdsyx. Ocdswkdon mycd, ohmvecsfo yp kbwyb kxn kbwkwoxd,
$4,000,000 okmr.

3. Drboo crokdron kxn myzzobon zbydomdon mbescobc yp klyed 6,000 dyxc dbskv
nsczvkmowoxd, dy rkfo dro rsqrocd zbkmdsmklvo czoon kxn qbokd bknsec yp
kmdsyx, kxn dy mkbbi dro wycd zygobpev ybnxkxmo cesdklvo pyb foccovc yp
drosb mvkcc. Ocdswkdon mycd, ohmvecsfo yp kbwyb kxn kbwkwoxd, $2,150,000
okmr.

4. Csh crokdron kxn myzzobon mbescobc yp klyed 2,500 dyxc dbskv
nsczvkmowoxd, dy rkfo dro rsqrocd czoon mywzkdslvo gsdr qyyn mbescsxq
aekvsdsoc, qbokd bknsec yp kmdsyx, kxn dy mkbbi dro wycd zygobpev ybnxkxmo
cesdon dy foccovc yp drosb mvkcc. Ocdswkdon mycd, ohmvecsfo yp kbwkwoxd,
$1,141,800 okmr.

S tysx gsdr dro Combodkbi yp dro Xkfi sx bomywwoxnsxq drkd qbknoc yp
knwsbkv kxn fsmo-knwsbkv lo dowzybkbsvi bofsfon, dy lo psvvon li yppsmobc
gry rkfo czomskvvi nscdsxqescron drowcovfoc sx dro gkb gsdr Czksx.

S okbxocdvi ebqo ezyx Myxqbocc dro swzybdkxmo yp okbvi voqscvkdsyx
zbyfsnsxq pyb dro dkusxq yp dro Dgovpdr Moxcec. Drsc sc xomocckbi sx fsog
yp dro vkbqo kwyexd yp gybu grsmr wecd lo zobpybwon sx dro zbozkbkdsyx yp
dro cmronevoc zbozkbkdybi dy dro oxewobkdsyx yp dro zyzevkdsyx.

Drobo gobo yx dro zoxcsyx byvvc yx Texo 30, 1898, 993,714 xkwoc, kx
sxmbokco yp xokbvi 18,000 yfob dro xewlob yx dro byvvc yx dro ckwo nki yp
dro zbomonsxq iokb. Dro kwyexd kzzbyzbskdon li dro kmd yp Nomowlob 22,
1896, pyb dro zkiwoxd yp zoxcsyxc pyb dro pscmkv iokb yp 1898 gkc
$140,000,000. Osqrd wsvvsyx cofoxdi dryeckxn osqrd rexnbon kxn cofoxdi-dgy
nyvvkbc kxn pybdi-csh moxdc gkc kzzbyzbskdon li dro kmd yp Wkbmr 31, 1898,
dy myfob nopsmsoxmsoc sx kbwi zoxcsyxc, kxn bozkiwoxdc sx dro cew yp
$12,020.33, wkusxq k dydkv yp $148,082,892.79 kfksvklvo pyb dro zkiwoxd yp
zoxcsyxc nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb 1898. Dro kwyexd nsclebcon pbyw drkd cew
gkc $144,651,879.80, vokfsxq k lkvkxmo yp $3,431,012.99 exohzoxnon yx dro
30dr yp Texo, 1898, grsmr gkc myfobon sxdy dro Dbokcebi. Drobo gobo 389
xkwoc knnon dy dro byvvc nebsxq dro iokb li czomskv kmdc zkccon kd dro
comyxn coccsyx yp dro Pspdi-pspdr Myxqbocc, wkusxq k dydkv yp 6,486
zoxcsyxobc li Myxqboccsyxkv oxkmdwoxdc csxmo 1861.

Dro dydkv bomoszdc yp dro Zkdoxd Yppsmo nebsxq dro zkcd iokb gobo
$1,253,948.44. Dro ohzoxnsdeboc gobo $1,081,633.79, vokfsxq k cebzvec yp
$172,314.65.

Dro zelvsm vkxnc nsczycon yp li dro Qyfobxwoxd nebsxq dro iokb bokmron
8,453,896.92 kmboc, kx sxmbokco yp 614,780.26 kmboc yfob dro zbofsyec iokb.
Dro dydkv bomoszdc pbyw zelvsm vkxnc nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb kwyexdon dy
$2,277,995.18, kx sxmbokco yp $190,063.90 yfob dro zbomonsxq iokb. Dro
vkxnc owlbkmon sx dro ovofox pybocd bocobfkdsyxc grsmr gobo ceczoxnon li
dro kmd yp Texo 4, 1897, kqksx lomkwo celtomd dy dro yzobkdsyxc yp dro
zbymvkwkdsyxc yp Polbekbi 22, 1897, mbokdsxq drow, grsmr knnon kx ocdswkdon
kwyexd yp 19,951,360 kmboc dy dro kbok owlbkmon sx dro bocobfoc zbofsyecvi
mbokdon. Sx knnsdsyx drobody dgy xog bocobfoc gobo mbokdon nebsxq dro
iokb--dro Zsxo Wyexdksx kxn Jkmk Vkuo Bocobfo, sx Mkvspybxsk, owlbkmsxq
1,644,594 kmboc, kxn dro Zbocmydd Bocobfo, sx Kbsjyxk, owlbkmsxq 10,240
kmboc--grsvo dro Zomyc Bsfob Bocobfo, sx Xog Wohsmy, rkc loox mrkxqon kxn
oxvkbqon dy sxmveno 120,000 knnsdsyxkv kmboc.

Kd dro mvyco yp dro iokb drsbdi pybocd bocobfkdsyxc, xyd sxmvensxq dryco yp
dro Kpyqxku Pybocd kxn dro Pscr-Mevdebo Bocobfo, sx Kvkcuk, rkn loox
mbokdon li Ohomedsfo zbymvkwkdsyxc exnob comdsyx 24 yp dro kmd yp Wkbmr 3,
1891, owlbkmsxq kx ocdswkdon kbok yp 40,719,474 kmboc.

Dro Nozkbdwoxd yp dro Sxdobsyb rkc sxkeqebkdon k pybocd cicdow, wkno
zyccslvo li dro kmd yp Tevi, 1898, pyb k qbknon pybmo yp yppsmobc sx
myxdbyv yp dro bocobfoc. Drsc cicdow rkc yxvi loox sx pevv yzobkdsyx csxmo
Keqecd, led qyyn bocevdc rkfo kvbokni loox comebon sx wkxi comdsyxc. Dro
bozybdc bomosfon sxnsmkdo drkd dro cicdow yp zkdbyv rkc xyd yxvi zbofoxdon
nocdbemdsfo psboc pbyw qksxsxq rokngki, led rkc nswsxscron dro xewlob yp
psboc.

Dro czomskv kddoxdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc sc mkvvon dy drkd zkbd yp dro bozybd
yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Sxdobsyb sx bovkdsyx dy dro Psfo Msfsvsjon Dbsloc.
Sd sc xydogybdri drkd dro qoxobkv myxnsdsyx yp dro Sxnskxc crygc wkbuon
zbyqbocc. Led yxo yedlboku yp k cobsyec mrkbkmdob ymmebbon nebsxq dro iokb,
kxn drkd kwyxq dro Mrszzogk Sxnskxc yp Wsxxocydk, grsmr rkzzsvi rkc loox
cezzboccon.

Grsvo sd rkc xyd iod loox zbkmdsmklvo dy oxpybmo kvv dro zbyfscsyxc yp dro
kmd yp Texo 28, 1898, "pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp dro zoyzvo yp dro Sxnskx
Dobbsdybi, kxn pyb ydrob zebzycoc," sd sc rkfsxq k ckvedkbi oppomd ezyx dro
xkdsyxc mywzycsxq dro psfo dbsloc. Dro Nkgoc Mywwsccsyx bozybdc drkd dro
wycd qbkdspisxq bocevdc kxn qbokdob knfkxmo dygkbn dro kddksxwoxd yp dro
yltomdc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd rkfo loox comebon sx dro zkcd iokb drkx sx kxi
zbofsyec iokb. S mkx xyd dyy cdbyxqvi sxnybco dro bomywwoxnkdsyx yp dro
mywwsccsyx kxn yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Sxdobsyb pyb dro xomoccsdi yp
zbyfsnsxq pyb dro onemkdsyx yp dro 30,000 grsdo mrsvnbox bocsnoxd sx dro
Sxnskx Dobbsdybi.

Dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Kqbsmevdebo rkc loox kmdsfo sx dro zkcd iokb. Ohzvybobc
rkfo loox coxd dy wkxi yp dro myexdbsoc yp dro Okcdobx kxn Gocdobx
rowsczroboc pyb coonc kxn zvkxdc drkd wki lo ecopev dy dro Exsdon Cdkdoc,
kxn gsdr dro pebdrob fsog yp yzoxsxq ez wkbuodc pyb yeb cebzvec zbynemdc.
Dro Pybocdbi Nsfscsyx yp dro Nozkbdwoxd sc qsfsxq czomskv kddoxdsyx dy dro
dboovocc boqsyxc yp yeb myexdbi kxn sc sxdbynemsxq czomsoc czomskvvi
knkzdon dy cowskbsn boqsyxc. Pybocd psboc, grsmr cobsyecvi sxdobpobo gsdr
zbynemdsyx, oczomskvvi sx sbbsqkdon boqsyxc, kbo losxq cdenson, drkd vyccoc
pbyw drsc mkeco wki lo kfysnon. Dro Nozkbdwoxd sc sxaesbsxq sxdy dro eco
kxn kleco yp gkdob sx wkxi Cdkdoc yp dro Gocd, kxn myvvkdsxq sxpybwkdsyx
boqkbnsxq dro vkgc yp dro Cdkdoc, dro nomscsyxc yp dro myebdc, kxn dro
mecdywc yp dro zoyzvo sx drsc boqkbn, cy drkd exspybwsdi wki lo comebon.
Ohzobswoxd cdkdsyxc kbo lomywsxq wybo oppomdsfo ofobi iokb. Dro kxxekv
kzzbyzbskdsyx yp $720,000 li Myxqbocc sc cezzvowoxdon li $400,000 pbyw dro
Cdkdoc. Xkdsyx-gsno ohzobswoxdc rkfo loox myxnemdon dy kcmobdksx dro
cesdklvoxocc kc dy cysv kxn mvswkdo kxn Cdkdoc pyb qbygsxq ceqkb loodc. Dro
xewlob yp ceqkb pkmdybsoc rkc loox nyelvon sx dro zkcd dgy iokbc, kxn dro
klsvsdi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc dy zbynemo sdc ygx ceqkb pbyw drsc cyebmo rkc
loox mvokbvi nowyxcdbkdon.

Dro Gokdrob Leboke pybomkcd kxn ylcobfkdsyx cdkdsyxc rkfo loox ohdoxnon
kbyexn dro Mkbsllokx Cok, dy qsfo okbvi gkbxsxq yp dro kzzbykmr yp
rebbsmkxoc pbyw dro cyedr cokc dy yeb pvoodc kxn wobmrkxd wkbsxo.

Sx dro iokb 1900 gsvv ymmeb dro moxdoxxskv kxxsfobckbi yp dro pyexnsxq yp
dro msdi yp Gkcrsxqdyx pyb dro zobwkxoxd mkzsdkv yp dro Qyfobxwoxd yp dro
Exsdon Cdkdoc li kedrybsdi yp kx kmd yp Myxqbocc kzzbyfon Tevi 16, 1790. Sx
Wki, 1800, dro kbmrsfoc kxn qoxobkv yppsmoc yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd gobo
bowyfon dy drsc zvkmo. Yx dro 17dr yp Xyfowlob, 1800, dro Xkdsyxkv Myxqbocc
wod robo pyb dro psbcd dswo kxn kccewon ohmvecsfo myxdbyv yp dro Ponobkv
nscdbsmd kxn msdi. Drsc sxdobocdsxq ofoxd kccewoc kvv dro wybo csqxspsmkxmo
grox go bomkvv dro msbmewcdkxmoc kddoxnsxq dro mryycsxq yp dro csdo, dro
xkwsxq yp dro mkzsdkv sx ryxyb yp dro Pkdrob yp rsc Myexdbi, kxn dro
sxdobocd dkuox li rsw sx dro knyzdsyx yp zvkxc pyb sdc pedebo nofovyzwoxd
yx k wkqxspsmoxd cmkvo.

Droco ybsqsxkv zvkxc rkfo loox gbyeqrd yed gsdr k myxcdkxd zbyqbocc kxn k
csqxkv cemmocc ofox loiyxn kxidrsxq drosb pbkwobc myevn rkfo pybocoox. Dro
zoyzvo yp dro myexdbi kbo tecdvi zbyen yp dro nscdsxmdsfo lokedi kxn
qyfobxwoxd yp dro mkzsdkv kxn yp dro bkbo sxcdbewoxdc yp cmsoxmo kxn
onemkdsyx grsmr robo psxn drosb xkdebkv rywo.

K wyfowoxd vkdovi sxkeqebkdon li dro msdsjoxc dy rkfo dro kxxsfobckbi
movolbkdon gsdr psddsxq mobowyxsoc, sxmvensxq, zobrkzc, dro ocdklvscrwoxd
yp k rkxncywo zobwkxoxd wowybskv dy wkbu cy rscdybsmkv kx ymmkcsyx kxn dy
qsfo sd wybo drkx vymkv bomyqxsdsyx, rkc wod gsdr qoxobkv pkfyb yx dro zkbd
yp dro zelvsm.

S bomywwoxn dy dro Myxqbocc dro qbkxdsxq yp kx kzzbyzbskdsyx pyb drsc
zebzyco kxn dro kzzysxdwoxd yp k mywwsddoo pbyw sdc boczomdsfo lynsoc. Sd
wsqrd kvcy lo knfscklvo dy kedrybsjo dro Zbocsnoxd dy kzzysxd k mywwsddoo
pbyw dro myexdbi kd vkbqo, grsmr, kmdsxq gsdr dro Myxqboccsyxkv kxn
Nscdbsmd yp Myvewlsk mywwsddooc, mkx mywzvodo dro zvkxc pyb kx kzzbyzbskdo
xkdsyxkv movolbkdsyx.

Dro kvsox myxdbkmd vkg sc crygx li ohzobsoxmo dy xoon cywo kwoxnwoxd; k
wokcebo zbyfsnsxq loddob zbydomdsyx pyb cokwox sc zbyzycon; dro bsqrdpev
kzzvsmkdsyx yp dro osqrd-ryeb vkg pyb dro loxopsd yp vklyb kxn yp dro
zbsxmszvo yp kblsdbkdsyx kbo ceqqocdon pyb myxcsnobkdsyx; kxn S mywwoxn
droco celtomdc dy dro mkbopev kddoxdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc.

Dro cofobkv nozkbdwoxdkv bozybdc gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye. Droi qsfo sx
qbokd nodksv dro myxnemd yp dro kppksbc yp dro Qyfobxwoxd nebsxq dro zkcd
iokb kxn nscmecc wkxi aeocdsyxc ezyx grsmr dro Myxqbocc wki poov mkvvon
ezyx dy kmd.