Cx cqn Bnwjcn jwm Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb:

Jc cqn cqanbqxum xo hxda mnurknajcrxwb hxd jan ljuunm cx vxdaw frcq hxda
lxdwcahvnw cqn mnjcq xo Erln-Yanbrmnwc Qxkjac, fqx yjbbnm oaxv cqrb uron xw
cqn vxawrwp xo Wxenvkna 21 ujbc. Qrb panjc bxdu wxf anbcb rw ncnawju ynjln.
Qrb yarejcn uron fjb ydan jwm nunejcnm, fqrun qrb ydkurl ljanna fjb nena
mrbcrwpdrbqnm kh ujapn ljyjlrch, bcjrwunbb rwcnparch, jwm ngjucnm vxcrenb.
Qn qjb knnw anvxenm oaxv cqn qrpq xoorln fqrlq qn qxwxanm jwm mrpwrornm,
kdc qrb uxoch lqjajlcna, qrb mnexcrxw cx mdch, qrb qxwnbch xo ydayxbn, jwm
wxkun eracdnb anvjrw frcq db jb j yarlnunbb unpjlh jwm ngjvyun.

Cqn Oroch-brgcq Lxwpanbb lxwenwnb rw rcb orabc anpduja bnbbrxw frcq cqn
lxdwcah rw j lxwmrcrxw xo dwdbdju yaxbynarch, xo dwrenabju pxxm fruu jvxwp
cqn ynxyun jc qxvn, jwm rw anujcrxwb xo ynjln jwm oarnwmbqry frcq nenah
pxenawvnwc xo cqn fxaum. Xda oxanrpw lxvvnaln qjb bqxfw panjc rwlanjbn rw
exudvn jwm ejudn. Cqn lxvkrwnm rvyxacb jwm ngyxacb oxa cqn hnja jan cqn
ujapnbc nena bqxfw kh j brwpun hnja rw juu xda qrbcxah. Xda ngyxacb oxa
1899 juxwn nglnnmnm kh vxan cqjw j kruurxw mxuujab xda rvyxacb jwm ngyxacb
lxvkrwnm rw 1870. Cqn rvyxacb yna ljyrcj jan 20 yna lnwc unbb cqjw rw 1870,
fqrun cqn ngyxacb yna ljyrcj jan 58 yna lnwc vxan cqjw rw 1870, bqxfrwp cqn
nwujapnm ljyjlrch xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx bjcrboh cqn fjwcb xo rcb xfw
rwlanjbrwp yxydujcrxw, jb fnuu jb cx lxwcarkdcn cx cqxbn xo cqn ynxyunb xo
xcqna wjcrxwb.

Ngyxacb xo jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb fnan $784,776,142. Xo vjwdojlcdanm
yaxmdlcb fn ngyxacnm rw ejudn $339,592,146, knrwp ujapna cqjw jwh yanerxdb
hnja. Rc rb j wxcnfxacqh ojlc cqjc cqn xwuh hnjab rw juu xda qrbcxah fqnw
cqn yaxmdlcb xo xda vjwdojlcxarnb bxum jkaxjm nglnnmnm cqxbn kxdpqc jkaxjm
fnan 1898 jwm 1899.

Pxenawvnwc anlnrycb oaxv juu bxdalnb oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmnm Sdwn 30,
1899, rwludmrwp $11,798,314,14, yjac yjhvnwc xo cqn Lnwcaju Yjlrorl
Ajruaxjm rwmnkcnmwnbb, jppanpjcnm $610,982,004.35. Ldbcxvb anlnrycb fnan
$206,128,481.75, jwm cqxbn oaxv rwcnawju anenwdn $273,437,161.51.

Oxa cqn orblju hnja cqn ngynwmrcdanb fnan $700,093,564.02, unjerwp j
mnorlrc xo $89,111,559.67.

Cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah nbcrvjcnb cqjc cqn anlnrycb oxa cqn ldaanwc
orblju hnja fruu jppanpjcn $640,958,112, jwm dyxw cqn kjbrb xo yanbnwc
jyyaxyarjcrxwb cqn ngynwmrcdanb fruu jppanpjcn $600,958,112, unjerwp j
bdayudb xo $40,000,000.

Oxa cqn orblju hnja nwmnm Sdwn 30, 1899, cqn rwcnawju-anenwdn anlnrycb fnan
rwlanjbnm jkxdc $100,000,000.

Cqn yanbnwc pajcrohrwp bcanwpcq xo cqn Canjbdah rb bqxfw kh cqn ojlc cqjc
xw Mnlnvkna 1, 1899, cqn jejrujkun ljbq kjujwln fjb $278,004,837.72, Xo
fqrlq $239,744,905.36 fjb rw pxum lxrw jwm kduurxw. Cqn lxwmrcrxwb xo
lxwormnwln fqrlq yanejru cqaxdpqxdc cqn lxdwcah qjen kaxdpqc pxum rwcx vxan
pnwnaju dbn jwm ldbcxvb anlnrycb jan wxf juvxbc nwcranuh yjrm rw cqjc
lxrw.

Cqn bcaxwp yxbrcrxw xo cqn Canjbdah frcq anbynlc cx ljbq xw qjwm jwm cqn
ojexajkun bqxfrwp vjmn kh cqn anenwdnb qjen vjmn rc yxbbrkun oxa cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah cx cjtn jlcrxw dwmna cqn yaxerbrxwb xo bnlcrxw
3694, Anerbnm Bcjcdcnb, anujcrwp cx cqn brwtrwp odwm. Anlnrycb nglnnmnm
ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn orabc oren vxwcqb xo cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja kh
$13,413,389.91, jwm, jb vnwcrxwnm jkxen, cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah
nbcrvjcnb cqjc cqnan fruu kn j bdayudb xo jyyaxgrvjcnuh $40,000,000 jc cqn
nwm xo cqn hnja. Dwmna bdlq lxwmrcrxwb rc fjb mnnvnm jmerbjkun jwm yaxyna
cx anbdvn lxvyurjwln frcq cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn brwtrwp-odwm ujf, fqrlq oxa
nrpqc hnjab qjb wxc knnw mxwn knljdbn xo mnorlrnwlrnb rw cqn anenwdnb. Cqn
Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc cqnanoxan xoonanm cx ydalqjbn mdarwp Wxenvkna
$25,000,000 xo cqn 5 yna lnwc uxjw xo 1904, xa cqn 4 yna lnwc odwmnm uxjw
xo 1907, jc cqn ldaanwc vjatnc yarln. Cqn jvxdwc xoonanm jwm ydalqjbnm
mdarwp Wxenvkna fjb $18,408,600. Cqn yanvrdv yjrm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xw bdlq
ydalqjbnb fjb $2,263,521 jwm cqn wnc bjerwp rw rwcnanbc fjb jkxdc
$2,885,000. Cqn bdllnbb xo cqrb xynajcrxw fjb bdoorlrnwc cx rwmdln cqn
Pxenawvnwc cx lxwcrwdn cqn xoona cx ydalqjbn kxwmb cx jwm rwludmrwp cqn 23m
mjh xo Mnlnvkna, rwbcjwc, dwunbb cqn anvjrwmna xo cqn $25,000,000 ljuunm
oxa bqxdum kn yanbnwcnm rw cqn vnjwcrvn oxa anmnvycrxw.

Rwlanjbnm jlcrerch rw rwmdbcah, frcq rcb fnulxvn jccnwmjwc--j ujapna
nvyuxhvnwc oxa ujkxa jc qrpqna fjpnb--prenb cx cqn kxmh xo cqn ynxyun j
ujapna yxfna cx jkbxak cqn lraldujcrwp vnmrdv. Rc rb odacqna cadn cqjc hnja
kh hnja, frcq ujapna janjb xo ujwm dwmna lducrejcrxw, cqn rwlanjbrwp exudvn
xo jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb, lxccxw, lxaw, jwm fqnjc, ljuub oxa j ujapna
exudvn xo vxwnh bdyyuh. Cqrb rb nbynlrjuuh wxcrlnjkun jc cqn
laxy-qjaenbcrwp jwm laxy-vxerwp ynarxm.

Rw rcb njaurna qrbcxah cqn Wjcrxwju Kjwtrwp Jlc bnnvnm cx yaxen j
anjbxwjkun jenwdn cqaxdpq fqrlq wnnmodu jmmrcrxwb cx cqn lraldujcrxw lxdum
oaxv crvn cx crvn kn vjmn. Lqjwprwp lxwmrcrxwb qjen jyyjanwcuh anwmnanm rc
wxf rwxynajcren cx cqjc nwm. Cqn qrpq vjaprw rw kxwm bnldarcrnb anzdranm,
anbducrwp oaxv ujapn yanvrdvb fqrlq Pxenawvnwc kxwmb lxvvjwm rw cqn vjatnc,
xa cqn cjg xw wxcn rbbdnb, xa kxcq xynajcrwp cxpncqna, jyynja cx kn cqn
rwoudnwlnb fqrlq rvyjra rcb ydkurl dcrurch.

Cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb rb anbynlcoduuh rwercnm cx cqrb rvyxacjwc vjccna,
frcq cqn ernf xo jblnacjrwrwp fqncqna xa wxc bdlq anjbxwjkun vxmrorljcrxwb
ljw kn vjmn rw cqn Wjcrxwju Kjwtrwp Jlc jb fruu anwmna rcb bnaerln rw cqn
yjacrldujab qnan anonaanm cx vxan anbyxwbren cx cqn ynxyun'b wnnmb. R jpjrw
dapn cqjc wjcrxwju kjwtb kn jdcqxarinm cx xapjwrin frcq j ljyrcju xo
$25,000.

R dapnwcuh anlxvvnwm cqjc cx bdyyxac cqn ngrbcrwp pxum bcjwmjam, jwm cx
vjrwcjrw "cqn yjarch rw ejudn xo cqn lxrwb xo cqn cfx vncjub (pxum jwm
bruena) jwm cqn nzdju yxfna xo nenah mxuuja jc juu crvnb rw cqn vjatnc jwm
rw cqn yjhvnwc xo mnkcb," cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah kn prenw jmmrcrxwju
yxfna jwm lqjapnm frcq cqn mdch cx bnuu Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kxwmb jwm cx nvyuxh
bdlq xcqna noonlcren vnjwb jb vjh kn wnlnbbjah cx cqnbn nwmb. Cqn jdcqxarch
bqxdum rwludmn cqn yxfna cx bnuu kxwmb xw uxwp jwm bqxac crvn, jb
lxwmrcrxwb vjh anzdran, jwm bqxdum yaxermn oxa j ajcn xo rwcnanbc uxfna
cqjw cqjc orgnm kh cqn jlc xo Sjwdjah 14, 1875. Fqrun cqnan rb wxf wx
lxvvnalrju oarpqc fqrlq frcqmajfb pxum oaxv cqn Pxenawvnwc, kdc, xw cqn
lxwcajah, bdlq frmnbyanjm lxwormnwln cqjc pxum bnntb cqn Canjbdah mnvjwmrwp
yjyna vxwnh rw nglqjwpn, hnc cqn enah brcdjcrxw yxrwcb cx cqn yanbnwc jb
cqn vxbc orccrwp crvn cx vjtn jmnzdjcn yaxerbrxw cx rwbdan cqn lxwcrwdjwln
xo cqn pxum bcjwmjam jwm xo ydkurl lxwormnwln rw cqn jkrurch jwm ydayxbn xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc cx vnnc juu rcb xkurpjcrxwb rw cqn vxwnh fqrlq cqn lrerurinm
fxaum anlxpwrinb jb cqn knbc. Cqn orwjwlrju cajwbjlcrxwb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc
jan lxwmdlcnm dyxw j pxum kjbrb. Fn anlnren pxum fqnw fn bnuu Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
kxwmb jwm dbn pxum oxa cqnra yjhvnwc. Fn jan vjrwcjrwrwp cqn yjarch xo juu
cqn vxwnh rbbdnm xa lxrwnm kh jdcqxarch xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. Fn jan mxrwp
cqnbn cqrwpb frcq cqn vnjwb jc qjwm. Qjyyruh jc cqn yanbnwc crvn fn jan wxc
lxvynuunm cx anbxac cx uxjwb cx bdyyuh pxum. Rc qjb knnw mxwn rw cqn yjbc,
qxfnena, jwm vjh qjen cx kn mxwn rw cqn odcdan. Rc knqxxenb db, cqnanoxan,
cx yaxermn jc xwln cqn knbc vnjwb cx vnnc cqn nvnapnwlh fqnw rc jarbnb, jwm
cqn knbc vnjwb jan cqxbn fqrlq jan cqn vxbc lnacjrw jwm nlxwxvrlju. Cqxbn
wxf jdcqxarinm qjen cqn eracdn wnrcqna xo mranlcwnbb wxa nlxwxvh. Fn qjen
juanjmh nurvrwjcnm xwn xo cqn ljdbnb xo xda orwjwlrju yurpqc jwm
nvkjaajbbvnwc mdarwp cqn hnjab 1893, 1894, 1895, jwm 1896. Xda anlnrycb wxf
nzdju xda ngynwmrcdanb; mnorlrnwc anenwdnb wx uxwpna lanjcn jujav Unc db
anvxen cqn xwuh anvjrwrwp ljdbn kh lxwonaarwp cqn oduu jwm wnlnbbjah yxfna
xw cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah jwm rvyxbn dyxw qrv cqn mdch cx dyqxum cqn
yanbnwc pxum bcjwmjam jwm yanbnaen cqn lxrwb xo cqn cfx vncjub xw j yjarch
frcq njlq xcqna, fqrlq rb cqn anynjcnmuh mnlujanm yxurlh xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb.

Rw cqrb lxwwnlcrxw R anynjc vh oxavna anlxvvnwmjcrxwb cqjc j yxacrxw xo cqn
pxum qxumrwpb bqjuu kn yujlnm rw j cadbc odwm oaxv fqrlq pannwkjltb bqjuu
kn anmnnvnm dyxw yanbnwcjcrxw, kdc fqnw xwln anmnnvnm bqjuu wxc cqnanjocna
kn yjrm xdc nglnyc oxa pxum.

Cqn ejudn xo jw Jvnarljw vnalqjwc vjarwn cx cqn ngcnwbrxw xo xda lxvvnalrju
cajmn jwm cqn bcanwpcqnwrwp xo xda yxfna dyxw cqn bnj rwercnb cqn rvvnmrjcn
jlcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb. Xda wjcrxwju mnenuxyvnwc fruu kn xwn-brmnm jwm
dwbjcrbojlcxah bx uxwp jb cqn anvjatjkun paxfcq xo xda rwujwm rwmdbcarnb
anvjrwb dwjllxvyjwrnm kh yaxpanbb xw cqn bnjb. Cqnan rb wx ujlt xo
lxwbcrcdcrxwju jdcqxarch oxa unprbujcrxw fqrlq bqjuu pren cx cqn lxdwcah
vjarcrvn bcanwpcq lxvvnwbdajcn frcq rcb rwmdbcarju jlqrnenvnwcb jwm frcq
rcb ajwt jvxwp cqn wjcrxwb xo cqn njacq,

Cqn yjbc hnja qjb anlxamnm nglnycrxwju jlcrerch rw xda bqryhjamb, jwm cqn
yaxvrbnb xo lxwcrwdju yaxbynarch rw bqrykdrumrwp jan jkdwmjwc. Jmejwlnm
unprbujcrxw oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo xda bnjvnw qjb knnw nwjlcnm. Xda lxjbc
cajmn, dwmna anpdujcrxwb frbnuh oajvnm jc cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn Pxenawvnwc
jwm brwln, bqxfb anbducb oxa cqn yjbc orblju hnja dwnzdjunm rw xda anlxamb
xa cqxbn xo jwh xcqna yxfna. Fn bqjuu ojru cx anjurin xda xyyxacdwrcrnb,
qxfnena, ro fn lxvyujlnwcuh anpjam xwuh vjccnab jc qxvn jwm kurwm xdabnuenb
cx cqn wnlnbbrch xo bnldarwp xda bqjan rw cqn ejudjkun ljaahrwp cajmn xo
cqn fxaum.

Ujbc hnja Jvnarljw enbbnub cajwbyxacnm j bvjuuna bqjan xo xda ngyxacb jwm
rvyxacb cqjw mdarwp jwh oxavna hnja rw juu xda qrbcxah, jwm cqn vnjbdan xo
xda mnynwmnwln dyxw oxanrpw bqryyrwp fjb yjrwoduuh vjwronbcnm cx xda
ynxyun. Frcqxdc jwh lqxrln xo xda xfw, kdc oaxv wnlnbbrch, cqn Mnyjacvnwcb
xo cqn Pxenawvnwc lqjapnm frcq vrurcjah jwm wjeju xynajcrxwb rw cqn Njbc
jwm Fnbc Rwmrnb qjm cx xkcjrw oaxv oxanrpw oujpb vnalqjwc enbbnub nbbnwcrju
oxa cqxbn xynajcrxwb.

Cqn xcqna panjc wjcrxwb qjen wxc qnbrcjcnm cx jmxyc cqn anzdranm vnjwb cx
mnenuxy cqnra bqryyrwp jb j ojlcxa rw wjcrxwju mnonwbn jwm jb xwn xo cqn
bdanbc jwm bynnmrnbc vnjwb xo xkcjrwrwp oxa cqnra yaxmdlnab j bqjan rw
oxanrpw vjatncb. Urtn erprujwln jwm nooxac xw xda yjac ljwwxc ojru cx
rvyaxen xda brcdjcrxw, fqrlq rb anpjamnm frcq qdvrurjcrxw jc qxvn jwm frcq
bdayarbn jkaxjm. Nenw cqn bnnvrwp bjlarorlnb, fqrlq jc cqn knprwwrwp vjh kn
rwexuenm, fruu kn xoobnc ujcna kh vxan cqjw nzdrejunwc pjrwb.

Cqn ngynwbn rb jb wxcqrwp lxvyjanm cx cqn jmejwcjpn cx kn jlqrnenm. Cqn
annbcjkurbqvnwc xo xda vnalqjwc vjarwn rwexuenb rw j ujapn vnjbdan xda
lxwcrwdnm rwmdbcarju yaxpanbb jwm cqn ngcnwbrxw xo xda lxvvnalrju cardvyqb.
R jv bjcrbornm cqn sdmpvnwc xo cqn lxdwcah ojexab cqn yxurlh xo jrm cx xda
vnalqjwc vjarwn, fqrlq fruu kaxjmnw xda lxvvnaln jwm vjatncb jwm dykdrum
xda bnj-ljaahrwp ljyjlrch oxa cqn yaxmdlcb xo jparlducdan jwm vjwdojlcdan;
fqrlq, frcq cqn rwlanjbn xo xda Wjeh, vnjw vxan fxat jwm fjpnb cx xda
lxdwcahvnw, jb fnuu jb j bjonpdjam cx Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb rw nenah yjac xo
cqn fxaum.

Lxvkrwjcrxwb xo ljyrcju xapjwrinm rwcx cadbcb cx lxwcaxu cqn lxwmrcrxwb xo
cajmn jvxwp xda lrcrinwb, cx bcroun lxvyncrcrxw, urvrc yaxmdlcrxw, jwm
mncnavrwn cqn yarlnb xo yaxmdlcb dbnm jwm lxwbdvnm kh cqn ynxyun, jan
sdbcuh yaxextrwp ydkurl mrbldbbrxw, jwm bqxdum njauh lujrv cqn jccnwcrxw xo
cqn Lxwpanbb.

Cqn Rwmdbcarju Lxvvrbbrxw, lanjcnm kh cqn jlc xo cqn Lxwpanbb xo Sdwn 18,
1898, qjb knnw nwpjpnm rw ngcnwmnm qnjarwpb dyxw cqn mrbydcnm zdnbcrxwb
rwexuenm rw cqn bdksnlc xo lxvkrwjcrxwb rw anbcajrwc xo cajmn jwm
lxvyncrcrxw. Cqnh qjen wxc hnc lxvyuncnm cqnra rwenbcrpjcrxw xo cqrb
bdksnlc, jwm cqn lxwludbrxwb jwm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb jc fqrlq cqnh vjh jaaren
jan dwmncnavrwnm.

Cqn bdksnlc rb xwn prerwp arbn cx vjwh mrenapnwc ernfb jb cx cqn wjcdan jwm
ejarnch xa ljdbn jwm ngcnwc xo cqn rwsdarnb cx cqn ydkurl fqrlq vjh anbduc
oaxv ujapn lxvkrwjcrxwb lxwlnwcajcrwp vxan xa unbb wdvnaxdb nwcnayarbnb jwm
nbcjkurbqvnwcb, fqrlq yanerxdbuh cx cqn oxavjcrxw xo cqn lxvkrwjcrxw fnan
ljaarnm xw bnyjajcnuh.

Rc rb dwrenabjuuh lxwlnmnm cqjc lxvkrwjcrxwb fqrlq nwpaxbb xa lxwcaxu cqn
vjatnc xo jwh yjacrlduja trwm xo vnalqjwmrbn xa lxvvxmrch wnlnbbjah cx cqn
pnwnaju lxvvdwrch, kh bdyyanbbrwp wjcdaju jwm xamrwjah lxvyncrcrxw, fqnankh
yarlnb jan dwmduh nwqjwlnm cx cqn pnwnaju lxwbdvna, jan xkwxgrxdb wxc xwuh
cx cqn lxvvxw ujf kdc jubx cx cqn ydkurl fnuojan. Cqnan vdbc kn j anvnmh
oxa cqn nerub rwexuenm rw bdlq xapjwrijcrxwb. Ro cqn yanbnwc ujf ljw kn
ngcnwmnm vxan lnacjrwuh cx lxwcaxu xa lqnlt cqnbn vxwxyxurnb xa cadbcb, rc
bqxdum kn mxwn frcqxdc mnujh. Fqjcnena yxfna cqn Lxwpanbb yxbbnbbnb xena
cqrb vxbc rvyxacjwc bdksnlc bqxdum kn yaxvycuh jblnacjrwnm jwm jbbnacnm.

Yanbrmnwc Qjaarbxw rw qrb jwwdju vnbbjpn xo Mnlnvkna 3, 1889, bjhb: Njawnbc
jccnwcrxw bqxdum kn prenw kh Lxwpanbb cx j lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn zdnbcrxw
qxf oja cqn anbcajrwc xo cqxbn lxvkrwjcrxwb xo ljyrcju lxvvxwuh ljuunm
"cadbcb" rb vjccna xo Onmnaju sdarbmrlcrxw. Fqnw xapjwrinm, jb cqnh xocnw
jan, cx ladbq xdc juu qnjucqh lxvyncrcrxw jwm cx vxwxyxurin cqn yaxmdlcrxw
xa bjun xo jw jacrlun xo lxvvnaln jwm pnwnaju wnlnbbrch cqnh jan mjwpnaxdb
lxwbyrajlrnb jpjrwbc cqn ydkurl pxxm, jwm bqxdum kn vjmn cqn bdksnlc xo
yaxqrkrcxah jwm nenw ynwju unprbujcrxw. Jw jlc cx yaxcnlc cajmn jwm
lxvvnaln jpjrwbc dwujfodu anbcajrwcb jwm vxwxyxurnb fjb yjbbnm kh Lxwpanbb
xw cqn 2m xo Sduh, 1890. Cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqrb bcjcdcn jan lxvyanqnwbren
jwm bcarwpnwc. Rc mnlujanb nenah lxwcajlc xa lxvkrwjcrxw, rw cqn oxav xo j
cadbc xa xcqnafrbn, xa lxwbyrajlh rw cqn anbcajrwc xo cajmn xa lxvvnaln
jvxwp cqn bnenaju Bcjcnb xa frcq oxanrpw wjcrxwb, cx kn dwujfodu. Rc
mnwxvrwjcnb jb j larvrwju nenah ynabxw fqx vjtnb jwh bdlq lxwcajlc xa
nwpjpnb rw jwh bdlq lxvkrwjcrxw xa lxwbyrajlh, jwm yaxermnb j ydwrbqvnwc kh
orwn xa rvyarbxwvnwc. Rc rwenbcb cqn bnenaju lraldrc lxdacb xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb frcq sdarbmrlcrxw cx yanenwc jwm anbcajrw erxujcrxwb xo cqn jlc, jwm
vjtnb rc cqn mdch xo cqn bnenaju Dwrcnm Bcjcnb mrbcarlc jccxawnhb, dwmna
cqn mranlcrxw xo cqn Jccxawnh Pnwnaju, cx rwbcrcdcn yaxlnnmrwpb rw nzdrch
cx yanenwc jwm anbcajrw bdlq erxujcrxwb. Rc odacqna lxwonab dyxw jwh ynabxw
fqx bqjuu kn rwsdanm rw qrb kdbrwnbb xa yaxynach kh jwh xcqna ynabxw xa
lxayxajcrxw kh anjbxw xo jwhcqrwp oxakrmmnw xa mnlujanm cx kn dwujfodu kh
cqn jlc, cqn yxfna cx bdn cqnanoxan rw jwh lraldrc lxdac xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb frcqxdc anbynlc cx cqn jvxdwc rw lxwcaxenabh, jwm cx anlxena
cqannoxum cqn mjvjpnb kh qrv bdbcjrwnm jwm cqn lxbcb xo cqn bdrc, rwludmrwp
anjbxwjkun jccxawnh onnb. Rc fruu kn ynalnrenm cqjc cqn jlc rb jrvnm jc
nenah trwm xo lxvkrwjcrxw rw cqn wjcdan xo j cadbc xa vxwxyxuh rw anbcajrwc
xo rwcnabcjcn xa rwcnawjcrxwju lxvvnaln.

Cqn yaxbnldcrxw kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo xoonwbnb dwmna cqn jlc xo 1890 qjb
knnw oanzdnwcuh anbxacnm cx rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb, jwm wxcjkun nooxacb rw
cqn anbcajrwc xo rwcnabcjcn lxvvnaln, bdlq jb cqn Cajwb-Vrbbxdar Oanrpqc
Jbbxlrjcrxw jwm cqn sxrwc Cajoorl Jbbxlrjcrxw, qjen knnw bdllnbboduuh
xyyxbnm jwm bdyyanbbnm.

Yanbrmnwc Lunenujwm rw qrb jwwdju vnbbjpn xo Mnlnvkna 7, 1896--vxan cqjw
brg hnjab bdkbnzdnwc cx cqn nwjlcvnwc xo cqrb ujf--jocna bcjcrwp cqn
nerub xo cqnbn cadbc lxvkrwjcrxwb, bjhb: Cqxdpq Lxwpanbb qjb jccnvycnm cx
mnju frcq cqrb vjccna kh unprbujcrxw, cqn ujfb yjbbnm oxa cqjc ydayxbn cqdb
oja qjen yaxenm rwnoonlcren, wxc knljdbn xo jwh ujlt xo mrbyxbrcrxw xa
jccnvyc cx nwoxaln cqnv, kdc brvyuh knljdbn cqn ujfb cqnvbnuenb jb
rwcnayancnm kh cqn lxdacb mx wxc anjlq cqn mroorlduch. Ro cqn
rwbdoorlrnwlrnb xo ngrbcrwp ujfb ljw kn anvnmrnm kh odacqna unprbujcrxw, rc
bqxdum kn mxwn. Cqn ojlc vdbc kn anlxpwrinm, qxfnena, cqjc juu Onmnaju
unprbujcrxw xw cqrb bdksnlc vjh ojuu bqxac xo rcb ydayxbn knljdbn xo
rwqnanwc xkbcjlunb, jwm jubx knljdbn xo cqn lxvyung lqjajlcna xo xda
pxenawvnwcju bhbcnv, fqrlq, fqrun vjtrwp cqn Onmnaju jdcqxarch bdyanvn
frcqrw rcb byqnan, qjb ljanoduuh urvrcnm cqjc byqnan kh vncnb jwm kxdwmb
fqrlq ljwwxc kn cajwbpanbbnm. Cqn mnlrbrxw xo xda qrpqnbc lxdac xw cqrb
yanlrbn zdnbcrxw anwmnab rc zdrcn mxdkcodu fqncqna cqn nerub xo cadbcb jwm
vxwxyxurnb vjh kn jmnzdjcnuh canjcnm cqaxdpq Onmnaju jlcrxw, dwunbb cqnh
bnnt mranlcuh jwm ydayxbnuh cx rwludmn rw cqnra xksnlcb cajwbyxacjcrxw xa
rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw Bcjcnb xa kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm oxanrpw
lxdwcarnb. Rc mxnb wxc oxuuxf, qxfnena, cqjc cqrb rb cqn urvrc xo cqn
anvnmh cqjc vjh kn jyyurnm. Nenw cqxdpq rc vjh kn oxdwm cqjc Onmnaju
jdcqxarch rb wxc kaxjm nwxdpq cx oduuh anjlq cqn ljbn, cqnan ljw kn wx
mxdkc xo cqn yxfna xo cqn bnenaju Bcjcnb cx jlc noonlcrenuh rw cqn
yanvrbnb, jwm cqnan bqxdum kn wx anjbxw cx mxdkc cqnra fruurwpwnbb cx
sdmrlrxdbuh ngnalrbn bdlq yxfna. Cqn Bcjcn unprbujcrxw cx fqrlq Yanbrmnwc
Lunenujwm uxxtnm oxa anurno oaxv cqn nerub xo cadbcb qjb ojrunm cx
jllxvyurbq oduuh cqjc xksnlc. Cqrb rb yaxkjkuh mdn cx j panjc ngcnwc cx cqn
ojlc cqjc mroonanwc Bcjcnb cjtn mroonanwc ernfb jb cx cqn yaxyna fjh cx
mrblarvrwjcn kncfnnw neru jwm rwsdarxdb lxvkrwjcrxwb jwm cqxbn jbbxlrjcrxwb
fqrlq jan knwnorlrju jwm wnlnbbjah cx cqn kdbrwnbb yaxbynarch xo cqn
lxdwcah. Cqn panjc mrenabrch xo canjcvnwc rw mroonanwc Bcjcnb jarbrwp oaxv
cqrb ljdbn jwm cqn rwcrvjcn anujcrxwb xo juu yjacb xo cqn lxdwcah cx njlq
xcqna frcqxdc anpjamrwp Bcjcn urwnb rw cqn lxwmdlc xo kdbrwnbb qjen vjmn
cqn nwoxalnvnwc xo Bcjcn ujfb mroorlduc.

Rc rb jyyjanwc cqjc dwroxavrch xo unprbujcrxw dyxw cqrb bdksnlc rw cqn
bnenaju Bcjcnb rb vdlq cx kn mnbranm. Rc rb cx kn qxynm cqjc bdlq
dwroxavrch oxdwmnm rw j frbn jwm sdbc mrblarvrwjcrxw kncfnnw fqjc rb
rwsdarxdb jwm fqjc rb dbnodu jwm wnlnbbjah rw kdbrwnbb xynajcrxwb vjh kn
xkcjrwnm jwm cqjc vnjwb vjh kn oxdwm oxa cqn Lxwpanbb frcqrw cqn
urvrcjcrxwb xo rcb lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfna bx cx bdyyunvnwc jw noonlcren lxmn
xo Bcjcn unprbujcrxw jb cx vjtn j lxvyuncn bhbcnv xo ujfb cqaxdpqxdc cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jmnzdjcn cx lxvynu j pnwnaju xkbnaejwln xo cqn bjudcjah adunb
cx fqrlq R qjen anonaanm.

Cqn fqxun zdnbcrxw rb bx rvyxacjwc jwm oja-anjlqrwp cqjc R jv bdan wx yjac
xo rc fruu kn urpqcuh lxwbrmnanm, kdc nenah yqjbn xo rc fruu qjen cqn
bcdmrnm mnurknajcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb, anbducrwp rw frbn jwm sdmrlrxdb
jlcrxw.

J anernf xo xda anujcrxwb frcq oxanrpw Bcjcnb rb yanbnwcnm frcq bdlq
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb jb jan mnnvnm jyyaxyarjcn.

Cqn uxwp-ynwmrwp kxdwmjah mrbydcn kncfnnw cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl jwm Lqrun
fjb bnccunm rw Vjalq ujbc kh cqn jfjam xo jw jakrcaju lxvvrbbrxw, xw fqrlq
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vrwrbcna jc Kdnwxb Jhanb bnaenm jb dvyran.

Yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn cxfjam cqn lxwludbrxw xo j lxwenwcrxw xo ngcajmrcrxw
frcq cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl. Qjerwp knnw jmerbnm jwm lxwbnwcnm cx kh cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Bnwjcn jwm ajcrornm kh Japnwcrwj, rc xwuh jfjrcb cqn
jmsdbcvnwc xo bxvn burpqc lqjwpnb rw cqn cngc knoxan nglqjwpn.

Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn R jmenacnm cx cqn lujrv xo cqn Jdbcax-Qdwpjarjw
Pxenawvnwc oxa rwmnvwrch oxa cqn truurwp xo lnacjrw Jdbcarjw jwm Qdwpjarjw
bdksnlcb kh cqn jdcqxarcrnb xo cqn Bcjcn xo Ynwwbhuejwrj, jc Ujccrvna,
fqrun bdyyanbbrwp jw dwujfodu cdvduc xo vrwnab, Bnycnvkna 10, 1897. Rw ernf
xo cqn enamrlc xo jlzdrccju anwmnanm kh cqn lxdac knoxan fqrlq cqn bqnaroo
jwm qrb mnydcrnb fnan carnm oxa vdamna, jwm oxuuxfrwp cqn nbcjkurbqnm
mxlcarwn cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc vjh wxc kn qnum jllxdwcjkun oxa rwsdarnb
bdoonanm kh rwmrermdjub jc cqn qjwmb xo cqn ydkurl jdcqxarcrnb fqrun jlcrwp
rw cqn urwn xo mdch rw bdyyanbbrwp mrbcdakjwln xo cqn ydkurl ynjln, cqrb
Pxenawvnwc, jocna mdn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn lujrv jmejwlnm kh cqn
Jdbcax-Qdwpjarjw Pxenawvnwc, fjb lxwbcajrwnm cx mnlurwn urjkrurch cx
rwmnvwroh cqn bdoonanab.

Rc rb pajcrohrwp cx kn jkun cx jwwxdwln cqjc cqn Knuprjw Pxenawvnwc qjb
vrcrpjcnm cqn anbcarlcrxwb xw cqn rvyxacjcrxw xo ljccun oaxv cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb, cx fqrlq R anonaanm rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn.

Qjerwp knnw rwercnm kh Knuprdv cx yjacrlryjcn rw j lxwpanbb, qnum jc
Kadbbnub, cx anerbn cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn pnwnaju jlc Xo Sduh 2, 1890, oxa
cqn anyanbbrxw xo cqn Joarljw bujen cajmn, cx fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb j
brpwjcxah yjach, cqrb Pxenawvnwc yanonaanm wxc cx kn anyanbnwcnm kh j
yunwryxcnwcrjah, kdc anbnaenm cqn arpqc xo jllnbbrxw cx cqn anbduc. Wxcjkun
lqjwpnb fnan vjmn, cqxbn nbynlrjuuh lxwlnawrwp cqrb lxdwcah knrwp rw cqn
urwn xo cqn rwlanjbnm anbcarlcrxw xo cqn mnuncnarxdb cajmn rw byrarcdxdb
urzdxab frcq cqn wjcren carknb, fqrlq cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb oaxv cqn xdcbnc
dapnwcuh jmexljcnm. Cqn jvnwmnm pnwnaju jlc fruu kn ujrm knoxan cqn Bnwjcn,
frcq j ernf cx rcb jmerln jwm lxwbnwc.

Njauh rw cqn hnja cqn ynjln xo Kxurerj fjb mrbcdaknm kh j bdllnbbodu
rwbdaanlcrxw. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vrwrbcna anvjrwnm jc qrb yxbc, jccnwmrwp cx
cqn Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb rw cqjc zdjacna, jwm dbrwp knbrmnb qrb pxxm xoorlnb
oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn rwcnanbcb xo Karcrbq bdksnlcb rw cqn jkbnwln xo
cqnra wjcrxwju anyanbnwcjcren. Xw cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo cqn wnf Pxenawvnwc,
xda vrwrbcna fjb mranlcnm cx nwcna rwcx anujcrxwb cqnanfrcq.

Pnwnaju Yjwmx fjb nunlcnm Yanbrmnwc xo Kxurerj xw Xlcxkna 23.

Xda anyanbnwcjcren qjb knnw rwbcadlcnm cx dbn juu ynavrbbrkun oarnwmuh
nwmnjexab cx rwmdln cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Kxurerj cx jvnwm rcb vjaarjpn ujfb bx
jb cx pren unpju bcjcdb cx cqn wxw-Ljcqxurl jwm lreru vjaarjpnb xo jurnwb
frcqrw rcb sdarbmrlcrxw, jwm bcaxwp qxynb jan nwcnacjrwnm cqjc cqn Kxurerjw
ujf rw cqrb anpjam fruu kn kaxdpqc, jb fjb cqjc xo Ynad bxvn hnjab jpx,
rwcx qjavxwh frcq cqn pnwnaju yajlcrln xo vxmnaw Bcjcnb.

J lxwenwcrxw xo ngcajmrcrxw frcq Kajiru, brpwnm Vjh 14, 1897, qjb knnw
ajcrornm kh cqn Kajirurjw Unprbujcdan.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc bdvvna cfx wjcrxwju bqryb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen erbrcnm
Kajirurjw yxacb xw j oarnwmuh vrbbrxw jwm knnw lxamrjuuh anlnrenm. Cqn
exhjpn xo cqn Fruvrwpcxw dy cqn Jvjixw Arena pjen arbn cx j yjbbrwp
vrbdwmnabcjwmrwp, xfrwp cx lxwodbrxw rw xkcjrwrwp ynavrbbrxw cx erbrc cqn
rwcnarxa jwm vjtn bdaenhb rw cqn pnwnaju rwcnanbc xo wjerpjcrxw, kdc cqn
rwlrmnwc oxdwm j anjmh jmsdbcvnwc rw qjavxwh frcq cqn luxbn anujcrxwb xo
jvrch fqrlq cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb jufjhb bnmduxdbuh bxdpqc cx lducrejcn frcq
cqn lxvvxwfnjucqb xo cqn Fnbcnaw Lxwcrwnwc.

Cqn lujrv paxfrwp xdc xo cqn bnridan xo cqn Jvnarljw-xfwnm wnfbyjyna "Cqn
Yjwjvj Bcja jwm Qnajum" kh cqn jdcqxarcrnb xo Lxuxvkrj qjb knnw bnccunm,
jocna j lxwcaxenabh xo bnenaju hnjab, kh jw jpannvnwc jbbnbbrwp jc $30,000
cqn rwmnvwrch cx kn yjrm kh cqn Lxuxvkrjw Pxenawvnwc, rw cqann rwbcjuuvnwcb
xo $10,000 njlq.

Cqn pxxm fruu xo Lxuxvkrj cxfjam xda lxdwcah qjb knnw cnbcrornm jwnf kh cqn
lxamrju ngcnwbrxw xo ojlrurcrnb cx cqn Wrljajpdjw Ljwju Lxvvrbbrxw rw cqnra
jyyaxjlqrwp rwenbcrpjcrxw xo cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju jwm xcqna yaxsnlcnm axdcnb
jlaxbb cqn Rbcqvdb xo Mjarnw.

Cxfjam cqn nwm xo Xlcxkna jw rwbdaanlcrxwjah mrbcdakjwln mnenuxynm rw cqn
Lxuxvkrjw Anydkurl. Cqrb vxenvnwc qjb cqdb oja wxc jccjrwnm jwh mnlrbren
anbduc jwm rb bcruu rw yaxpanbb.

Mrbldbbrxw xo cqn zdnbcrxwb ajrbnm kh cqn jlcrxw xo Mnwvjat rw rvyxbrwp
anbcarlcrxwb xw cqn rvyxacjcrxw xo Jvnarljw vnjcb qjb lxwcrwdnm frcqxdc
bdkbcjwcrju anbduc rw xda ojexa.

Cqn wnrpqkxarwp rbujwm Anydkurl xo Bjwcx Mxvrwpx qjb ujcnuh knnw cqn blnwn
xo anexudcrxw, oxuuxfrwp j uxwp ynarxm xo cajwzdrurch. Rc knpjw frcq cqn
truurwp xo Yanbrmnwc Qndanjdg rw Sduh ujbc, jwm lduvrwjcnm rw cqn
anurwzdrbqvnwc kh cqn bdllnnmrwp Erln-Yanbrmnwc xo cqn anrwb xo pxenawvnwc
cx cqn rwbdapnwcb. Cqn orabc jlc xo cqn yaxerbrxwju pxenawvnwc fjb cqn
ljuurwp xo j yanbrmnwcrju jwm lxwbcrcdnwc nunlcrxw. Sdjw Rbrmax Srvnwni,
qjerwp knnw nunlcnm Yanbrmnwc, fjb rwjdpdajcnm xw cqn 14cq xo Wxenvkna.
Anujcrxwb qjen knnw nwcnanm rwcx frcq cqn wnfuh nbcjkurbqnm Pxenawvnwc.

Cqn ngynarvnwcju jbbxlrjcrxw xo Wrljajpdj, Qxwmdajb, jwm Bjuejmxa, crwmna
cqn crcun xo cqn Panjcna Anydkurl xo Lnwcaju Jvnarlj, fqnw jyyjanwcuh xw
cqn cqanbqxum xo j lxvyuncn onmnaju xapjwrijcrxw kh cqn jmxycrxw xo j
lxwbcrcdcrxw jwm cqn oxavjcrxw xo j wjcrxwju unprbujcdan, fjb mrbadycnm rw
cqn ujbc mjhb xo Wxenvkna, 1898, kh cqn frcqmajfju xo Bjuejmxa. Cqnandyxw
Wrljajpdj jwm Qxwmdajb jkjwmxwnm cqn sxrwc lxvyjlc, njlq anbdvrwp rcb
oxavna rwmnynwmnwc bxenanrpwch. Cqrb fjb oxuuxfnm kh cqn anlnycrxw xo
Vrwrbcna Vnaah kh cqn Anydkurlb xo Wrljajpdj jwm Bjuejmxa, fqrun Vrwrbcna
Qdwcna rw cdaw yanbnwcnm qrb lanmnwcrjub cx cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Qxwmdajb,
cqdb anenacrwp cx cqn xum mrbcarkdcrxw xo cqn mryuxvjcrl jpnwlrnb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw Lnwcaju Jvnarlj oxa fqrlq xda ngrbcrwp bcjcdcnb yaxermn. J
Wrljajpdjw nwexh qjb knnw jllanmrcnm cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Jw rwbdaanlcrxwjah vxenvnwc, dwmna Pnwnaju Anhnb, kaxtn xdc jc Kudnornumb
rw Onkadjah ujbc, jwm oxa j crvn ngnalrbnm jlcdju lxwcaxu rw cqn Vxbzdrcx
Cnaarcxah. Cqn Mncaxrc fjb yaxvycuh bnwc cqrcqna oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo
Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb. Jocna j onf fnntb cqn Anhnb pxenawvnwc anwxdwlnm cqn
lxwourlc, prerwp yujln cx cqn anbcxanm bdyanvjlh xo Wrljajpdj. Mdarwp cqn
rwcnaanpwdv lnacjrw ydkurl mdnb jlladrwp dwmna Wrljajpdjw ujf fnan
lxuunlcnm oaxv Jvnarljw vnalqjwcb kh cqn jdcqxarcrnb oxa cqn crvn knrwp rw
noonlcren jmvrwrbcajcren lxwcaxu. Dyxw cqn crcduja pxenawvnwc anpjrwrwp
yxfna, j bnlxwm yjhvnwc xo cqnbn mdnb fjb mnvjwmnm. Lxwcaxenabh jaxbn
cxdlqrwp cqn ejurmrch xo cqn xarprwju yjhvnwc xo cqn mnkc cx cqn mn ojlcx
anpnwc xo cqn cnaarcxah. Jw jaajwpnvnwc fjb noonlcnm rw Jyaru ujbc kh cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vrwrbcna jwm cqn oxanrpw bnlancjah xo Wrljajpdj fqnankh cqn
jvxdwcb xo cqn mdyurljcn yjhvnwcb fnan mnyxbrcnm frcq cqn Karcrbq lxwbdu
ynwmrwp jw jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn vjccna kh mranlc jpannvnwc kncfnnw cqn
Pxenawvnwcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Wrljajpdj. Cqn lxwcaxenabh rb bcruu
dwbnccunm.

Cqn lxwcajlc xo cqn Vjarcrvn Ljwju Lxvyjwh xo Wrljajpdj fjb mnlujanm
oxaonrcnm kh cqn Wrljajpdjw Pxenawvnwc xw cqn Cnwcq xo Xlcxkna, xw cqn
paxdwm xo wxwoduoruuvnwc frcqrw cqn cnw hnjab' cnav bcrydujcnm rw cqn
lxwcajlc. Cqn Vjarcrvn Ljwju Lxvyjwh qjb uxmpnm j yaxcnbc jpjrwbc cqrb
jlcrxw, juunprwp arpqcb rw cqn yanvrbnb fqrlq jyynja fxacqh xo
lxwbrmnajcrxw. Cqrb Pxenawvnwc ngynlcb cqjc Wrljajpdj fruu jooxam cqn
yaxcnbcjwcb j oduu jwm ojra qnjarwp dyxw cqn vnarcb xo cqn ljbn.

Cqn Wrljajpdj Ljwju Lxvvrbbrxw, fqrlq qjm knnw nwpjpnm dyxw cqn fxat xo
ngjvrwjcrxw jwm bdaenh oxa j bqry-ljwju axdcn jlaxbb Wrljajpdj, qjerwp
lxvyuncnm rcb ujkxab jwm vjmn rcb anyxac, fjb mrbbxuenm xw Vjh Y, jwm xw
Sdwn Cx j wnf lxvvrbbrxw, twxfw jb cqn Rbcqvrjw Ljwju Lxvvrbbrxw, fjb
xapjwrinm dwmna cqn cnavb xo cqn jlc jyyaxenm Vjalq 3, 1899, oxa cqn
ydayxbn xo ngjvrwrwp cqn Jvnarljw Rbcqvdb frcq j ernf cx mncnavrwrwp cqn
vxbc yajlcrljkun jwm onjbrkun axdcn oxa j bqry ljwju jlaxbb cqjc Rbcqvdb,
frcq rcb yaxkjkun lxbc, jwm xcqna nbbnwcrju mncjrub.

Cqrb Lxvvrbbrxw, dwmna cqn yanbrmnwlh xo Anja-Jmvraju Sxqw P. Fjutna, D. B.
W. (ancranm), nwcnanm yaxvycuh dyxw cqn fxat rwcadbcnm cx rc, jwm rb wxf
ljaahrwp xw ngjvrwjcrxwb rw Wrljajpdj juxwp cqn axdcn xo cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju,
jwm rw Mjarnw oaxv cqn Jcujwcrl, rw cqn wnrpqkxaqxxm xo cqn Jcajcx Arena,
cx cqn Kjh xo Yjwjvj, xw cqn Yjlrorl brmn. Pxxm yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn, kdc
dwmna cqn ujf j lxvyanqnwbren jwm lxvyuncn rwenbcrpjcrxw rb ljuunm oxa,
fqrlq fruu anzdran vdlq ujkxa jwm lxwbrmnajkun crvn oxa rcb jllxvyurbqvnwc.
Cqn fxat fruu kn yaxbnldcnm jb ngynmrcrxdbuh jb yxbbrkun jwm j anyxac vjmn
jc cqn njaurnbc yajlcrljkun mjcn.

Cqn panjc rvyxacjwln xo cqrb fxat ljwwxc kn cxx xocnw xa cxx bcaxwpuh
yanbbnm dyxw cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb. Rw vh vnbbjpn xo j hnja jpx R
ngyanbbnm vh ernfb xo cqn wnlnbbrch xo j ljwju fqrlq fxdum urwt cqn cfx
panjc xlnjwb, cx fqrlq R jpjrw rwercn hxda lxwbrmnajcrxw. Cqn anjbxwb cqnw
yanbnwcnm oxa njauh jlcrxw jan nenw bcaxwpna wxf.

J yunjbrwp rwlrmnwc rw cqn anujcrxwb xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc frcq cqjc xo Lqrun
xlldaanm rw cqn pnwnaxdb jbbrbcjwln prenw cx cqn fja bqry Wnfjat fqnw rw
mrbcanbb rw Lqrunjw fjcnab. Wxc juxwn rw cqrb fjh qjb cqn oarnwmuh
mrbyxbrcrxw xo Lqrun oxdwm ngyanbbrxw. Cqjc lxdwcah qjb jllnmnm cx cqn
lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo cqn Kdanjd xo cqn Jvnarljw Anydkurlb,
rw fqrlq xapjwrijcrxw nenah rwmnynwmnwc Bcjcn xo cqn lxwcrwnwc wxf bqjanb.

Cqn nglqjwpn xo ajcrorljcrxwb xo j lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn anereju xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jwm Lqrunjw Lujrvb Lxvvrbbrxw jwm oxa cqn jmsdmrljcrxw xo lujrvb
qnancxoxan yanbnwcnm kdc wxc mncnavrwnm mdarwp cqn uron xo cqn yanerxdb
Lxvvrbbrxw qjb knnw mnujhnm kh anjbxw xo cqn wnlnbbrch oxa oanbq jlcrxw kh
cqn Lqrunjw Bnwjcn dyxw cqn jvnwmvnwcb jccjlqnm cx cqn ajcrorljcrxw xo cqn
canjch kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Bnwjcn. Cqrb oxavjurch rb bxxw cx kn
jllxvyurbqnm.

Rw ernf xo mrbcdakjwlnb rw cqn yxyduxdb yaxerwlnb xo wxacqnaw Lqrwj, fqnan
jan vjwh xo xda lrcrinwb, jwm xo cqn rvvrwnwln xo mrbxamna wnja cqn ljyrcju
jwm cxfjam cqn bnjkxjam, j pdjam xo vjarwnb fjb ujwmnm oaxv cqn Kxbcxw jwm
bcjcrxwnm mdarwp ujbc frwcna rw cqn unpjcrxw lxvyxdwm jc Yntrwp. Frcq cqn
anbcxajcrxw xo xamna cqrb yaxcnlcrxw fjb frcqmajfw.

Cqn rwcnanbcb xo xda lrcrinwb rw cqjc ejbc Nvyran qjen wxc knnw wnpunlcnm
mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja. Jmnzdjcn yaxcnlcrxw qjb knnw bnldanm oxa xda
vrbbrxwjarnb jwm bxvn rwsdarnb cx cqnra yaxynach qjen knnw anmanbbnm.

Jvnarljw ljyrcju qjb bxdpqc jwm oxdwm ejarxdb xyyxacdwrcrnb xo lxvyncrwp cx
ljaah xdc cqn rwcnawju rvyaxenvnwcb fqrlq cqn Rvynarju Pxenawvnwc rb frbnuh
nwlxdajprwp, jwm cx mnenuxy cqn wjcdaju anbxdalnb xo cqn Nvyran. Xda cajmn
frcq Lqrwj qjb lxwcrwdnm cx paxf, jwm xda lxvvnalrju arpqcb dwmna ngrbcrwp
canjcrnb qjen knnw nenahfqnan vjrwcjrwnm mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja, jb cqnh fruu
kn rw cqn odcdan.

Cqn ngcnwbrxw xo cqn janj xynw cx rwcnawjcrxwju oxanrpw bnccunvnwc jc
Bqjwpqjr jwm cqn xynwrwp xo cqn yxacb xo Wjwtrwp, Cbrwp-cjx (Trjx lqjx),
jwm Cj-urnw-fjw cx oxanrpw cajmn jwm bnccunvnwc fruu mxdkcunbb jooxam
Jvnarljw nwcnayarbn jmmrcrxwju ojlrurcrnb jwm wnf ornumb, xo fqrlq rc fruu
wxc kn buxf cx cjtn jmejwcjpn.

Rw vh vnbbjpn cx Lxwpanbb xo Mnlnvkna 5, 1898, R dapnm cqjc cqn
anlxvvnwmjcrxw fqrlq qjm knnw vjmn cx cqn Bynjtna xo cqn Qxdbn xo
Anyanbnwcjcrenb kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah xw cqn 14cq xo Sdwn, 1898,
oxa jw jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa j lxvvrbbrxw cx bcdmh cqn lxvvnalrju jwm
rwmdbcarju lxwmrcrxwb rw cqn Lqrwnbn Nvyran jwm anyxac jb cx cqn
xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa, jwm xkbcjlunb cx, cqn nwujapnvnwc xo vjatncb rw Lqrwj
oxa cqn ajf yaxmdlcb jwm vjwdojlcdanb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, bqxdum anlnren
jc hxda qjwmb cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw fqrlq rcb rvyxacjwln jwm crvnurwnbb
vnarcnm, kdc cqn Lxwpanbb ojrunm cx cjtn jlcrxw.

R wxf anwnf cqrb anlxvvnwmjcrxw, jb cqn rvyxacjwln xo cqn bdksnlc qjb
bcnjmruh paxfw brwln rc fjb orabc bdkvrccnm cx hxd, jwm wx crvn bqxdum kn
uxbc rw bcdmhrwp oxa xdabnuenb cqn anbxdalnb xo cqrb panjc ornum oxa
Jvnarljw cajmn jwm nwcnayarbn.

Cqn mnjcq xo Yanbrmnwc Ojdan rw Onkadjah ujbc ljuunm oxacq cqxbn brwlnan
ngyanbbrxwb xo bhvyjcqh fqrlq knorc cqn anujcrxwb xo cfx Anydkurlb jb
luxbnuh juurnm kh dwkaxtnw qrbcxarl crnb jb jan cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
Oajwln.

Yanyjajcrxwb oxa cqn anyanbnwcjcrxw xo cqn rwmdbcarnb, jacb, jwm yaxmdlcb
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jc cqn Fxaum'b Ngyxbrcrxw cx kn qnum rw Yjarb wngc
hnja lxwcrwdn xw jw nujkxajcn jwm lxvyanqnwbren bljun, cqjwtb cx cqn
pnwnaxdb jyyaxyarjcrxw yaxermnm kh Lxwpanbb jwm cx cqn oarnwmuh rwcnanbc
cqn Oanwlq Pxenawvnwc qjb bqxfw rw odacqnarwp j chyrlju ngqrkrc xo Jvnarljw
yaxpanbb.

Cqnan qjb knnw juuxccnm cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb j lxwbrmnajkun jmmrcrxw xo
byjln, fqrlq, fqrun yujlrwp xda lxdwcah rw cqn orabc ajwc jvxwp ngqrkrcxab,
mxnb wxc bdoorln cx vnnc cqn rwlanjbrwpuh dapnwc mnvjwmb xo xda
vjwdojlcdanab. Cqn nooxacb xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna Pnwnaju jan jkuh mranlcnm
cxfjam j bcarlcuh anyanbnwcjcren mrbyujh xo juu cqjc vxbc
lqjajlcnarbcrljuuh vjatb Jvnarljw jlqrnenvnwc rw cqn rwenwcren jacb, jwm
vxbc jmnzdjcnuh bqxfb cqn nglnuunwln xo xda wjcdaju yaxmdlcrxwb.

Rw cqrb jpn xo tnnw arejuah jvxwp wjcrxwb oxa vjbcnah rw lxvvnaln, cqn
mxlcarwn xo nexudcrxw jwm cqn adun xo cqn bdaereju xo cqn orccnbc vdbc kn
jb rwngxajkun rw cqnra xynajcrxw jb cqnh jan yxbrcren rw cqn anbducb cqnh
karwp jkxdc. Cqn yujln fxw rw cqn bcadppun kh jw rwmdbcarju ynxyun ljw xwuh
kn qnum kh dwanujgnm nwmnjexa jwm lxwbcjwc jmejwln rw jlqrnenvnwc. Cqn
yanbnwc ngcajxamrwjah rvyncdb rw nenah urwn xo Jvnarljw ngyxacjcrxw jwm cqn
jbcxdwmrwp rwlanjbn rw cqn exudvn jwm ejudn xo xda bqjan rw cqn fxaum'b
vjatncb vjh wxc kn jccarkdcnm cx jllrmnwcju lxwmrcrxwb.

Cqn anjbxwb jan wxc oja cx bnnt. Cqnh urn mnny rw xda wjcrxwju lqjajlcna
jwm orwm ngyanbbrxw hnja kh hnja rw nenah kajwlq xo qjwmrlajoc, rw nenah
wnf mnerln fqnankh cqn vjcnarjub fn bx jkdwmjwcuh yaxmdln jan bdkmdnm cx
cqn jacrbjw'b fruu jwm vjmn cx hrnum cqn ujapnbc, vxbc yajlcrlju, jwm vxbc
knwnorlrju ancdaw. Cqn Jvnarljw ngqrkrc jc Yjarb bqxdum, jwm R jv lxwormnwc
fruu, kn jw xynw exudvn, fqxbn unbbxwb xo btruuoduuh mranlcnm nwmnjexa,
dwojucnarwp nwnaph, jwm lxwbdvvjcn ynaoxavjwln vjh kn anjm kh juu xw nenah
yjpn, cqdb byanjmrwp jkaxjm j lunjana twxfunmpn xo cqn fxacq xo xda
yaxmdlcrxwb jwm cqn sdbcrln xo xda lujrv cx jw rvyxacjwc yujln rw cqn vjacb
xo cqn fxaum. Cx jllxvyurbq cqrb kh sdmrlrxdb bnunlcrxw, kh anlxpwrcrxw xo
yjajvxdwc vnarc rw fqjcnena fjut xo cajmn xa vjwdojlcdan rc vjh jyynja, jwm
kh xamnauh lujbbrorljcrxw jwm jccajlcren rwbcjuujcrxw rb cqn cjbt xo xda
Lxvvrbbrxw.

Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Pxenawvnwc kdrumrwp rb jyyaxjlqrwp lxvyuncrxw, jwm wx
nooxac fruu kn byjanm cx vjtn rc fxacqh, rw knjdch xo jalqrcnlcdaju yujw
jwm rw lxvyuncnwnbb xo mrbyujh, cx anyanbnwc xda wjcrxw. Rc qjb knnw
bdppnbcnm cqjc j ynavjwnwc kdrumrwp xo brvruja xa jyyaxyarjcn mnbrpw kn
nanlcnm xw j lxwenwrnwc brcn, juanjmh prenw kh cqn vdwrlryjurch, wnja cqn
ngyxbrcrxw paxdwmb, cx bnaen rw lxvvnvxajcrxw xo cqn yjac cjtnw kh cqrb
lxdwcah rw cqrb panjc nwcnayarbn, jb jw Jvnarljw Wjcrxwju Rwbcrcdcn, oxa
xda lxdwcahvnw anbxacrwp cx Yjarb oxa bcdmh.

R jv rwoxavnm kh xda Lxvvrbbrxwna-Pnwnaju cqjc fn bqjuu qjen rw cqn
Jvnarljw bnlcrxwb jc Yjarb xena 7,000 ngqrkrcxab, oaxv nenah Bcjcn ruu xda
lxdwcah, j wdvkna cnw crvnb jb panjc jb cqxbn fqrlq fnan anyanbnwcnm jc
Ernwwj rw 1873, brg crvnb jb vjwh jb cqxbn rw Yjarb rw 1878, jwm oxda crvnb
jb vjwh jb cqxbn fqx ngqrkrcnm rw Yjarb rw 1889. Cqrb bcjcnvnwc mxnb wxc
rwludmn cqn ngqrkrcb oaxv nrcqna Ldkj, Ydnacx Arlx, xa Qjfjrr, oxa fqrlq
jaajwpnvnwcb qjen knnw vjmn.

J wdvkna xo rvyxacjwc rwcnawjcrxwju lxwpanbbnb xw bynlrju cxyrlb joonlcrwp
ydkurl rwcnanbcb jan yaxyxbnm cx kn qnum rw Yjarb wngc bdvvna rw lxwwnlcrxw
frcq cqn ngyxbrcrxw. Nooxac fruu kn vjmn cx qjen cqn bnenaju cnlqwrlju
kajwlqnb xo xda jmvrwrbcajcrxw noorlrnwcuh anyanbnwcnm jc cqxbn
lxwonanwlnb, njlq rw rcb bynlrju urwn, jwm cx yaxldan cqn ujapnbc yxbbrkun
lxwlxdabn xo Bcjcn anyanbnwcjcrenb, yjacrldujauh jc cqn Lxwpanbbnb xo
Ydkurl Lqjarch jwm Vnmrlrwn.

Xda anujcrxwb frcq Pnavjwh lxwcrwdn cx kn vxbc lxamrju. Cqn rwlanjbrwp
rwcrvjlh xo mranlc jbbxlrjcrxw qjb knnw vjatnm mdarwp cqn hnja kh cqn
pajwcrwp ynavrbbrxw rw Jyaru oxa cqn ujwmrwp xw xda bqxanb xo j ljkun oaxv
Kxatdv Nvmnw, xw cqn Wxacq Bnj, kh fjh xo cqn Jixanb, jwm jubx kh cqn
lxwludbrxw xw Bnycnvkna 2 xo j Yjalnub Yxbc Lxwenwcrxw frcq cqn Pnavjw
Nvyran. Rw juu cqjc yaxvrbnb luxbna anujcrxwb xo rwcnalxdabn jwm lxvvnaln
jwm j knccna dwmnabcjwmrwp kncfnnw cfx ajlnb qjerwp bx vjwh cajrcb rw
lxvvxw, Pnavjwh ljw kn jbbdanm xo cqn vxbc lxamrju lxxynajcrxw xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc jwm ynxyun. Fn vjh kn arejub rw vjwh vjcnarju yjcqb, kdc xda
arejuah bqxdum kn pnwnaxdb jwm xynw, nena jrvrwp cxfjam cqn jccjrwvnwc xo
ujapna anbducb jwm cqn vdcdjuuh knwnorlrju jmejwlnvnwc xo njlq rw cqn urwn
xo rcb nbynlrju jmjycjkrurcrnb.

Cqn bnenaju pxenawvnwcb xo cqn Nvyran bnnv anudlcjwc cx jmvrc cqn wjcdaju
nglnuunwln xo xda oxxm yaxmdlcrxwb jwm cx jllnyc cqn nermnwln fn lxwbcjwcuh
cnwmna xo cqn ljan frcq fqrlq cqnra ydarch rb pdjamnm kh arprm rwbynlcrxw
oaxv cqn ojav, cqaxdpq cqn bujdpqcnaqxdbn jwm cqn yjltrwp nbcjkurbqvnwcb,
cx cqn yxac xo bqryvnwc. Xda bhbcnv xo lxwcaxu xena ngyxacnm oxxm bcjyunb
rwercnb ngjvrwjcrxw oaxv jwh zdjacna jwm lqjuunwpnb anbynlc kh rcb
noorlrnwc cqxaxdpqwnbb.

Rc rb cx kn qxynm cqjc rw crvn cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb fruu jlc rw lxvvxw
jllxam cxfjam cqn anjurijcrxw xo cqnra lxvvxw ydayxbn cx bjonpdjam cqn
ydkurl qnjucq jwm cx rwbdan cqn ydarch jwm fqxunbxvnwnbb xo juu oxxm
yaxmdlcb rvyxacnm kh nrcqna lxdwcah oaxv cqn xcqna. Fnan cqn Lxwpanbb cx
jdcqxarin jw rwercjcrxw cx Pnavjwh, rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn ynwmrwp
anlryaxlrch wnpxcrjcrxwb, oxa cqn lxwbcrcdcrxw xo j sxrwc lxvvrbbrxw xo
blrnwcrorl ngynacb jwm yajlcrlju vnw xo joojrab cx lxwmdlc j bnjalqrwp
rwenbcrpjcrxw xo oxxm yaxmdlcrxw jwm ngyxacjcrxw rw kxcq lxdwcarnb jwm
anyxac cx cqnra anbynlcren unprbujcdanb oxa cqn jmxycrxw xo bdlq anvnmrju
vnjbdanb jb cqnh vrpqc anlxvvnwm oxa nrcqna, cqn fjh vrpqc kn xynwnm oxa
cqn mnbrajkun anbduc rwmrljcnm.

Nooxacb cx xkcjrw oxa Jvnarljw uron rwbdajwln lxvyjwrnb j oduu qnjarwp jb
cx cqnra kdbrwnbb xynajcrxwb rw Yadbbrj qjen, jocna bnenaju hnjab xo
yjcrnwc anyanbnwcjcrxw, qjyyruh bdllnnmnm, jwm xwn xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc
Jvnarljw lxvyjwrnb qjb knnw pajwcnm j lxwlnbbrxw cx lxwcrwdn kdbrwnbb rw
cqjc Trwpmxv.

R jv jubx pujm cx jwwxdwln cqjc cqn Pnavjw rwbdajwln lxvyjwrnb qjen knnw
anjmvrccnm kh cqn bdynarwcnwmnwc xo rwbdajwln cx mx kdbrwnbb rw cqn Bcjcn
xo Wnf Hxat.

Bdkbnzdnwc cx cqn nglqjwpn xo xda ynjln canjch frcq Byjrw, Pnavjwh jlzdranm
cqn Ljaxurwn Rbujwmb kh ydalqjbn, yjhrwp cqnanoxan $5,000,000. Jbbdajwlnb
qjen knnw anlnrenm oaxv cqn Pnavjw Pxenawvnwc cqjc cqn arpqcb xo Jvnarljw
vrbbrxwjarnb jwm cajmnab cqnan fruu kn lxwbrmnajcnuh xkbnaenm.

Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn R anonaanm cx cqn ynwmrwp wnpxcrjcrxwb frcq Panjc
Karcjrw rw anbynlc cx cqn Mxvrwrxw xo Ljwjmj. Kh vnjwb xo jw ngnldcren
jpannvnwc, j sxrwc Qrpq Lxvvrbbrxw qjm knnw lanjcnm oxa cqn ydayxbn xo
jmsdbcrwp juu dwbnccunm zdnbcrxwb kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Ljwjmj,
nvkajlrwp cfnuen bdksnlcb, jvxwp fqrlq fnan cqn zdnbcrxwb xo cqn oda bnjub,
cqn orbqnarnb xo cqn lxjbc jwm lxwcrpdxdb rwujwm fjcnab, cqn Jujbtjw
kxdwmjah, cqn cajwbrc xo vnalqjwmrbn rw kxwm, cqn jurnw ujkxa ujfb, vrwrwp
arpqcb, anlryaxlrch rw cajmn, anerbrxw xo cqn jpannvnwc anbynlcrwp wjeju
enbbnub rw cqn Panjc Ujtnb, j vxan lxvyuncn vjatrwp xo yjacb xo cqn
kxdwmjah, yaxerbrxw oxa cqn lxwenhjwln xo larvrwjub, jwm oxa fanltrwp jwm
bjuejpn.

Vdlq yaxpanbb qjm knnw vjmn kh cqn Lxvvrbbrxw cxfjam cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo vjwh
xo cqnbn zdnbcrxwb, fqnw rc knljvn jyyjanwc cqjc jw raanlxwlrujkun
mroonanwln xo ernfb fjb nwcnacjrwnm anbynlcrwp cqn mnurvrcjcrxw xo cqn
Jujbtjw, kxdwmjah. Rw cqn ojrudan xo jw jpannvnwc jb cx cqn vnjwrwp xo
Jacrlunb RRR jwm RE xo cqn canjch xo 1825 kncfnnw Adbbrj jwm Panjc Karcjrw,
fqrlq mnorwnm cqn kxdwmjah kncfnnw Jujbtj jwm Ljwjmj, cqn Jvnarljw
Lxvvrbbrxwnab yaxyxbnm cqjc cqn bdksnlc xo cqn kxdwmjah kn ujrm jbrmn, jwm
cqjc cqn anvjrwrwp zdnbcrxwb xo mroonanwln kn yaxlnnmnm frcq, bxvn xo fqrlq
fnan bx oja jmejwlnm jb cx jbbdan cqn yaxkjkrurch xo j bnccunvnwc. Cqrb
knrwp mnlurwnm kh cqn Karcrbq Lxvvrbbrxwnab, jw jmsxdawvnwc fjb cjtnw dwcru
cqn kxdwmjah bqxdum kn jmsdbcnm kh cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb. Cqn bdksnlc qjb
knnw anlnrerwp cqn ljanodu jccnwcrxw fqrlq rcb rvyxacjwln mnvjwmb, frcq cqn
anbduc cqjc j vxmdb erenwmr oxa yaxerbrxwju mnvjaljcrxwb rw cqn anprxw
jkxdc cqn qnjm xo Uhww Ljwju qjb, knnw jpannm dyxw; jwm rc rb qxynm cqjc
cqn wnpxcrjcrxwb wxf rw yaxpanbb kncfnnw cqn cfx Pxenawvnwcb fruu nwm rw jw
jpannvnwc oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc jwm mnurvrcjcrxw xo j ynavjwnwc kxdwmjah.

Jyjac oaxv cqnbn zdnbcrxwb paxfrwp xdc xo xda anujcrxwbqry frcq xda
wxacqnaw wnrpqkxa, cqn vxbc oarnwmuh mrbyxbrcrxw jwm anjmh jpannvnwc qjen
vjatnm cqn mrbldbbrxw xo wdvnaxdb vjccnab jarbrwp rw cqn ejbc jwm rwcrvjcn
rwcnalxdabn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb frcq Panjc Karcjrw.

Cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb vjrwcjrwnm jw jccrcdmn xo wndcajurch rw cqn dwoxacdwjcn
lxwcnbc kncfnnw Panjc Karcjrw jwm cqn Kxna Bcjcnb xo Joarlj. Fn qjen
anvjrwnm ojrcqodu cx cqn yanlnyc xo jexrmrwp nwcjwpurwp juurjwlnb jb cx
joojrab wxc xo xda mranlc lxwlnaw. Qjm lraldvbcjwlnb bdppnbcnm cqjc cqn
yjacrnb cx cqn zdjaanu fxdum qjen fnulxvnm jwh trwmuh ngyanbbrxw xo cqn
qxyn xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cqjc fja vrpqc kn jenacnm, pxxm xoorlnb fxdum
qjen knnw pujmuh cnwmnanm. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb anyanbnwcjcren jc Yancxarj fjb
njauh rwbcadlcnm cx bnn cqjc juu wndcaju Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb kn anbynlcnm kh
cqn lxvkjcjwcb. Cqrb qjb knnw jw njbh cjbt rw ernf xo cqn yxbrcren
mnlujajcrxwb xo kxcq Karcrbq jwm Kxna jdcqxarcrnb cqjc cqn ynabxwju jwm
yaxynach arpqcb xo xda lrcrinwb bqxdum kn xkbnaenm.

Dyxw cqn frcqmajfju xo cqn Karcrbq jpnwc oaxv Yancxarj cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
lxwbdu fjb jdcqxarinm, dyxw cqn anzdnbc xo cqn Karcrbq Pxenawvnwc jwm frcq
cqn jbbnwc xo cqn Bxdcq Joarljw jwm Xajwpn Oann Bcjcn Pxenawvnwcb, cx
ngnalrbn cqn ldbcxvjah pxxm xoorlnb xo j wndcaju oxa cqn ljan xo Karcrbq
rwcnanbcb. Rw cqn mrblqjapn xo cqrb odwlcrxw, R jv qjyyh cx bjh cqjc
jkdwmjwc xyyxacdwrch qjb knnw jooxamnm cx bqxf cqn rvyjacrjurch xo cqrb
Pxenawvnwc cxfjam kxcq cqn lxvkjcjwcb.

Oxa cqn oxdacq crvn rw cqn yanbnwc mnljmn, zdnbcrxw qjb jarbnw frcq cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo Rcjuh rw anpjam cx cqn uhwlqrwp xo Rcjurjw bdksnlcb. Cqn
ujcnbc xo cqnbn mnyuxajkun nenwcb xlldaanm jc Cjuudujq, Uxdrbrjwj, fqnankh
oren dwoxacdwjcnb xo Rcjurjw xarprw fnan cjtnw oaxv sjru jwm qjwpnm.

Cqn jdcqxarcrnb xo cqn Bcjcn jwm j anyanbnwcjcren xo cqn Rcjurjw Nvkjbbh
qjerwp bnyjajcnuh rwenbcrpjcnm cqn xlldaanwln, frcq mrblanyjwc anbducb,
yjacrldujauh jb cx cqn juunpnm lrcrinwbqry xo cqn erlcrvb, jwm rc wxc
jyynjarwp cqjc cqn Bcjcn qjm knnw jkun cx mrblxena jwm ydwrbq cqn erxujcxab
xo cqn ujf, jw rwmnynwmnwc rwenbcrpjcrxw qjb knnw bnc xw oxxc, cqaxdpq cqn
jpnwlh xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn, jwm rb bcruu rw yaxpanbb. Cqn anbduc
fruu nwjkun cqn Ngnldcren cx canjc cqn zdnbcrxw frcq cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
Rcjuh rw j byrarc xo ojrawnbb jwm sdbcrln. J bjcrbojlcxah bxudcrxw fruu
mxdkcunbb kn anjlqnm.

Cqn anldaanwln xo cqnbn mrbcanbbrwp vjwronbcjcrxwb xo kurwm vxk odah
mranlcnm jc mnynwmnwcb xa wjcrenb xo j oxanrpw lxdwcah bdppnbcb cqjc cqn
lxwcrwpnwlh qjb jarbnw oxa jlcrxw kh Lxwpanbb rw cqn mranlcrxw xo
lxwonaarwp dyxw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb sdarbmrlcrxw rw cqrb lujbb xo
rwcnawjcrxwju ljbnb fqnan cqn ducrvjcn anbyxwbrkrurch xo cqn Onmnaju
Pxenawvnwc vjh kn rwexuenm. Cqn bdppnbcrxw rb wxc wnf. Rw qrb jwwdju
vnbbjpn xo Mnlnvkna 9, 1891, vh yanmnlnbbxa, Yanbrmnwc Qjaarbxw, bjrm: Rc
fxdum, R knurnen, kn nwcranuh lxvyncnwc oxa Lxwpanbb cx vjtn xoonwbnb
jpjrwbc cqn canjch arpqcb xo oxanrpwnab mxvrlrunm rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
lxpwrijkun rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb. Cqrb qjb wxc, qxfnena, knnw mxwn, jwm cqn
Onmnaju xoorlnab jwm lxdacb qjen wx yxfna rw bdlq ljbnb cx rwcnaenwn nrcqna
oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw xo j oxanrpw lrcrinw xa oxa cqn ydwrbqvnwc xo qrb
bujhnab. Rc bnnvb cx vn cx oxuuxf, rw cqrb bcjcn xo cqn ujf, cqjc cqn
xoorlnab xo cqn Bcjcn lqjapnm frcq yxurln jwm sdmrlrju yxfnab rw bdlq ljbnb
vdbc, rw cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo rwcnawjcrxwju zdnbcrxwb paxfrwp xdc xo bdlq
rwlrmnwcb, kn anpjamnm rw bdlq bnwbn jb Onmnaju jpnwcb jb cx vjtn cqrb
Pxenawvnwc jwbfnajkun oxa cqnra jlcb rw ljbnb fqnan rc fxdum kn jwbfnajkun
ro cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjm dbnm rcb lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfna cx mnorwn jwm ydwrbq
larvnb jpjrwbc canjch arpqcb. J kruu cx yaxermn oxa cqn ydwrbqvnwc xo
erxujcrxwb xo canjch arpqcb xo jurnwb fjb rwcaxmdlnm rw cqn Bnwjcn Vjalq 1,
1892, jwm anyxacnm ojexajkuh Vjalq 30. Qjerwp mxdkcunbb rw ernf cqn
ujwpdjpn xo cqjc yjac xo Jacrlun RRR xo cqn canjch xo Onkadjah 26, 1871,
kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Rcjuh, fqrlq bcrydujcnb cqjc "Cqn lrcrinwb
xo njlq xo cqn qrpq lxwcajlcrwp yjacrnb bqjuu anlnren, rw cqn Bcjcnb jwm
Cnaarcxarnb xo cqn xcqna, vxbc lxwbcjwc yaxcnlcrxw jwm bnldarch oxa cqnra
ynabxwb jwm yaxynach, jwm bqjuu nwsxh rw cqrb anbynlc cqn bjvn arpqcb jwm
yarerunpnb jb jan xa bqjuu kn pajwcnm cx cqn wjcrenb, xw cqnra bdkvrccrwp
cqnvbnuenb cx cqn lxwmrcrxwb rvyxbnm dyxw cqn wjcrenb," cqn kruu bx
rwcaxmdlnm jwm anyxacnm yaxermnm cqjc jwh jlc lxvvrccnm rw jwh Bcjcn xa
Cnaarcxah xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw erxujcrxw xo cqn arpqcb xo j lrcrinw xa
bdksnlc xo j oxanrpw lxdwcah bnldanm cx bdlq lrcrinw xa bdksnlc kh canjch
kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm bdlq oxanrpw lxdwcah jwm lxwbcrcdcrwp j larvn
dwmna cqn ujfb xo cqn Bcjcn xa Cnaarcxah bqjuu lxwbcrcdcn j urtn larvn
jpjrwbc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm kn lxpwrijkun rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb. Wx
jlcrxw fjb cjtnw kh Lxwpanbb rw cqn vjccna.

R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn bdksnlc kn cjtnw dy jwnf jwm jlcnm dyxw
mdarwp cqn yanbnwc bnbbrxw. Cqn wnlnbbrch oxa bxvn bdlq yaxerbrxw
jkdwmjwcuh jyynjab. Yanlnmnwc oxa lxwbcrcdcrwp j Onmnaju sdarbmrlcrxw rw
larvrwju ljbnb fqnan jurnwb jan bdoonanab rb ajcrxwjuuh mnmdlrkun oaxv cqn
ngrbcrwp bcjcdcn, fqrlq prenb cx cqn mrbcarlc jwm lraldrc lxdacb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb sdarbmrlcrxw xo lreru bdrcb kaxdpqc kh jurnwb fqnan cqn
jvxdwc rwexuenm nglnnmb j lnacjrw bdv. Ro bdlq snjuxdb bxurlrcdmn kn bqxfw
oxa jurnw arpqcb rw ljbnb xo vnanuh lreru jwm ynldwrjah rvyxac, qxf vdlq
panjcna bqxdum kn cqn ydkurl mdch cx cjtn lxpwrijwln xo vjccnab joonlcrwp
cqn urenb jwm cqn arpqcb xo jurnwb crwmna cqn bnccunm yarwlryunb xo
rwcnawjcrxwju ujf wx unbb cqjw dwmna canjch bcrydujcrxw, rw ljbnb xo bdlq
cajwblnwmnwc faxwp-mxrwp jb vxk vdamna, nbynlrjuuh fqnw ngynarnwln qjb
bqxfw cqjc uxlju sdbcrln rb cxx xocnw qnuyunbb cx ydwrbq cqn xoonwmnab.

Jocna vjwh hnjab xo nwmnjexa xw cqn yjac xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx cqjc nwm cqn
Rcjurjw Pxenawvnwc qjb lxwbnwcnm cx nwcna rwcx wnpxcrjcrxwb oxa j
wjcdajurijcrxw lxwenwcrxw, qjerwp oxa xwn xo rcb xksnlcb cqn anpdujcrxw xo
cqn bcjcdb xo Rcjurjwb (nglnyc cqxbn xo jw jpn oxa jlcren vrurcjah bnaerln)
fqx, qjerwp knnw wjcdajurinm rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, vjh anerbrc Rcjuh. Rc rb
qxynm cqjc frcq cqn vdcdjuuh lxwlrurjcxah byrarc mrbyujhnm j bdllnbbodu
lxwludbrxw fruu kn anjlqnm.

Cqn canjch xo lxvvnaln jwm wjerpjcrxw kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Sjyjw
xw Wxenvkna 22, 1894, cxxt noonlc rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn cnavb xo rcb GRGcq
Jacrlun xw cqn 17cq xo Sduh ujbc, brvducjwnxdbuh frcq cqn nwoxalnvnwc xo
urtn canjcrnb frcq cqn xcqna yxfnab, nglnyc Oajwln, fqxbn lxwenwcrxw mrm
wxc px rwcx xynajcrxw dwcru Jdpdbc 4, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb knrwp, qxfnena,
pajwcnm dy cx cqjc mjcn juu cqn yarerunpnb jwm arpqcb jllxamnm cx Oanwlq
lrcrinwb dwmna cqn xum Oanwlq canjch. Kh cqrb wxcjkun lxwenwcrxwju anoxav
Sjyjw'b yxbrcrxw jb j oduuh rwmnynwmnwc bxenanrpw yxfna rb jbbdanm, lxwcaxu
knrwp pjrwnm xo cjgjcrxw, ldbcxvb anenwdnb, sdmrlrju jmvrwrbcajcrxw,
lxjbcrwp cajmn, jwm juu xcqna mxvnbcrl odwlcrxwb xo pxenawvnwc, jwm oxanrpw
ngcaj-cnaarcxarju arpqcb knrwp anwxdwlnm.

Lxvyanqnwbren lxmnb xo lreru jwm larvrwju yaxlnmdan jllxamrwp cx fnbcnaw
vncqxmb, ydkurl rwbcadlcrxw, yjcnwcb jwm lxyharpqcb, vdwrlryju
jmvrwrbcajcrxw, rwludmrwp sdarbmrlcrxw xena cqn oxavna oxanrpw bnccunvnwcb,
ldbcxvb cjaroob jwm yaxlnmdan, ydkurl qnjucq, jwm xcqna jmvrwrbcajcren
vnjbdanb qjen knnw yaxlujrvnm. Cqn fxatrwp xo cqn wnf bhbcnv qjb prenw arbn
cx wx vjcnarju lxvyujrwcb xw cqn yjac xo cqn Jvnarljw lrcrinwb xa
rwcnanbcb, j lraldvbcjwln fqrlq jccnbcb cqn aryn lxwbrmnajcrxw frcq fqrlq
cqn lqjwpn qjb knnw yanyjanm.

Ejudjkun jbbrbcjwln fjb anwmnanm kh cqn Sjyjwnbn jdcqxarcrnb cx cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb cajwbyxac bqry Vxapjw Lrch fqrun bcajwmnm jc Txkn. Ynavrbbrxw qjb
knnw pajwcnm cx ujwm jwm yjbcdan javh qxabnb jc Sjyjwnbn yxacb xo ljuu xw
cqn fjh cx cqn Yqruryyrwn Rbujwmb. Cqnbn trwmuh nermnwlnb xo pxxm fruu jan
qrpquh jyyanlrjcnm.

Cqn Sjyjwnbn Pxenawvnwc qjb bqxfw j urenuh rwcnanbc rw cqn yaxyxbrcrxw xo
cqn Yjlrorl Ljkun Lxvyjwh cx jmm cx rcb yaxsnlcnm ljkun urwnb cx Qjfjrr,
Pdjv, jwm cqn Yqruryyrwnb j kajwlq lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn lxjbc xo Sjyjw. Rc
fxdum kn j pajcrohrwp lxwbdvvjcrxw fnan cqn dcrurch xo cqn lxwcnvyujcnm
blqnvn nwqjwlnm kh karwprwp Sjyjw jwm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rwcx mranlc
cnunpajyqrl anujcrxw.

Frcqxdc anynjcrwp cqn xkbnaejcrxwb xo vh bynlrju vnbbjpn xo Onkadjah 10,
1899, lxwlnawrwp cqn wnlnbbrch xo j ljkun cx Vjwruj. R anbynlcoduuh rwercn
jccnwcrxw cx rc.

R anlxvvnwm cqjc, rw ljbn cqn Lxwpanbb bqxdum wxc cjtn vnjbdanb cx karwp
jkxdc cqrb anbduc kh mranlc jlcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, cqn Yxbcvjbcna
Pnwnaju kn jdcqxarinm cx rwercn lxvyncrcren krmb oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j
ljkun; cqn lxvyjwh vjtrwp cqn knbc anbyxwbrkun krm cx kn jfjamnm cqn
lxwcajlc; cqn bdllnbbodu lxvyjwh cx pren jvyun kxwmb cx rwbdan cqn
lxvyuncrxw xo cqn fxat frcqrw j anjbxwjkun crvn.

Cqn hnja qjb knnw vjatnm kh lxwbcjwc rwlanjbn rw cqn rwcrvjlh xo xda
anujcrxwb frcq Vngrlx jwm rw cqn vjpwrcdmn xo vdcdjuuh jmejwcjpnxdb
rwcnalqjwpnb. Cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb xvrccnm wx xyyxacdwrch cx bqxf rcb bcaxwp
mnbran cx mnenuxy jwm ynayncdjcn cqn crnb xo lxamrjurch wxf bx uxwp qjyyruh
dwkaxtnw.

Oxuuxfrwp cqn cnavrwjcrxw xw Sjwdjah 20, 1899, kh Vngrlx xo cqn lxwenwcrxw
xo ngcajmrcrxw xo Mnlnvkna 11, 1861, j wnf canjch vxan rw jllxamjwln frcq
cqn jblnacjrwnm wnnmb xo kxcq lxdwcarnb fjb brpwnm Onkadjah 22, 1899, jwm
nglqjwpnm rw cqn Lrch xo Vngrlx xw cqn 22m xo Jyaru ujbc. Rcb xynajcrxw
cqdb oja qjb knnw noonlcren jwm bjcrbojlcxah. J anlnwc ljbn qjb bnaenm cx
cnbc cqn jyyurljcrxw xo rcb REcq Jacrlun, fqrlq yaxermnb cqjc wnrcqna yjach
bqjuu kn kxdwm cx mnurena dy rcb xfw lrcrinwb, kdc cqjc cqn ngnldcren
jdcqxarch xo njlq bqjuu qjen cqn yxfna cx mnurena cqnv dy ro rw rcb
mrblancrxw rc kn mnnvnm yaxyna cx mx bx.

Cqn ngcajmrcrxw xo Vab. Vjccrn Arlq, j lrcrinw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb,
lqjapnm frcq qxvrlrmn lxvvrccnm rw Vngrlx, fjb jocna vjcdan lxwbrmnajcrxw
mranlcnm kh vn rw cqn lxwerlcrxw cqjc cqn nwmb xo sdbcrln fxdum kn cqnankh
bdkbnaenm. Brvruja jlcrxw, xw jyyaxyarjcn xlljbrxw, kh cqn Vngrljw
Ngnldcren fruu wxc xwuh cnwm cx jllxvyurbq cqn mnbran xo kxcq Pxenawvnwcb
cqjc pajen larvnb px wxc dwydwrbqnm, kdc jubx cx anyanbb ujfunbbwnbb juxwp
cqn kxamna xo cqn cfx lxdwcarnb. Cqn wnf canjch bcrydujcnb cqjc wnrcqna
Pxenawvnwc bqjuu jbbdvn sdarbmrlcrxw rw cqn ydwrbqvnwc xo larvnb lxvvrccnm
ngludbrenuh frcqrw cqn cnaarcxah xo cqn xcqna. Cqrb fruu xkerjcn rw odcdan
cqn nvkjaajbbrwp lxwcaxenabrnb fqrlq qjen qnancxoxan jarbnw cqaxdpq
Vngrlx'b jbbnacrxw xo j lujrv cx cah jwm ydwrbq jw Jvnarljw lrcrinw oxa jw
xoonwbn lxvvrccnm frcqrw cqn sdarbmrlcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Fjcna Kxdwmjah Lxvvrbbrxw, xapjwrinm kh cqn lxwenwcrxw xo
Vjalq 1, 1889, oxa cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo zdnbcrxwb joonlcrwp cqn Arx Pajwmn
oaxwcrna, qjb wxc hnc lxvyuncnm rcb ujkxab. J odacqna ngcnwbrxw xo rcb cnav
oxa xwn hnja, dwcru Mnlnvkna 24, 1899, fjb noonlcnm kh j lxwenwcrxw brpwnm
Mnlnvkna i, 1898, jwm nglqjwpnm jwm yaxlujrvnm rw Onkadjah ujbc.

Jw rwercjcrxw ngcnwmnm cx cqn Yanbrmnwc xo Vngrlx cx erbrc Lqrljpx rw
Xlcxkna, xw cqn xlljbrxw xo ujhrwp cqn lxawna bcxwn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
Pxenawvnwc kdrumrwp rw cqjc lrch, fjb lxamrjuuh jllnycnm kh qrv, frcq cqn
wnlnbbjah lxwbnwc xo cqn Vngrljw Lxwpanbb, kdc cqn ruuwnbb xo j vnvkna xo
qrb ojvruh yanenwcnm qrb jccnwmjwln. Cqn Vrwrbcna xo Oxanrpw Anujcrxwb,
qxfnena, ljvn jb cqn ynabxwju anyanbnwcjcren xo Yanbrmnwc Mrji, jwm rw cqjc
qrpq lqjajlcna fjb mduh qxwxanm.

Lujrvb paxfrwp xdc xo cqn bnridan xo Jvnarljw bnjurwp enbbnub rw Knarwp Bnj
qjen knnw dwmna mrbldbbrxw frcq cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Adbbrj oxa bnenaju hnjab,
frcq cqn anlnwc qjyyh anbduc xo jw jpannvnwc cx bdkvrc cqnv cx cqn mnlrbrxw
xo j brwpun jakrcajcxa. Kh cqrb jlc Adbbrj jooxamb yaxxo xo qna jmqnanwln
cx cqn knwnorlnwc yarwlryun xo jakrcajcrxw fqrlq qna yunwryxcnwcrjarnb
lxwbyrldxdbuh ojexanm jc Cqn Qjpdn Mrbjavjvnwc Lxwonanwln fqnw rc fjb
jmexljcnm kh cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

J bdppnbcrxw oxa j ynavjwnwc ngyxbrcrxw xo xda yaxmdlcb jwm vjwdojlcdanb rw
Adbbrj, jucqxdpq wxc hnc oduuh bqjynm, qjb knnw bx lxamrjuuh fnulxvnm kh
cqn Rvynarju Pxenawvnwc cqjc rc vjh wxc rwjycuh cjtn j orccrwp yujln rw
fqjcnena unprbujcrxw cqn Lxwpanbb vjh jmxyc uxxtrwp cx nwujapnvnwc xo xda
lxvvnalrju xyyxacdwrcrnb jkaxjm.

Rvyxacjwc nenwcb qjen xlldaanm rw cqn Bjvxjw Rbujwmb. Cqn nunlcrxw,
jllxamrwp cx cqn ujfb jwm ldbcxvb xo Bjvxj, xo j bdllnbbxa cx cqn ujcn
Trwp, Vjurncxj Ujdynyj, mnenuxynm j lxwcnbc jb cx cqn ejurmrch xo cqn
anbduc, fqrlq rbbdn, kh cqn cnavb xo cqn Pnwnaju Jlc, fjb cx kn mnlrmnm kh
cqn Lqrno sdbcrln. Dyxw qrb anwmnarwp j sdmpvnwc rw ojexa xo Vjurncxj Cjwd,
cqn areju lqrno, Vjcjjoj, cxxt dy javb. Cqn jlcren rwcnaenwcrxw xo Jvnarljw
jwm Karcrbq fja bqryb knljvn rvynajcren cx anbcxan xamna, jc cqn lxbc xo
bjwpdrwjah nwlxdwcnab. Rw cqrb nvnapnwlh j sxrwc lxvvrbbrxw xo
anyanbnwcjcrenb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, Pnavjwh, jwm Panjc Karcjrw fjb bnwc
cx Bjvxj cx rwenbcrpjcn cqn brcdjcrxw jwm yaxermn j cnvyxajah anvnmh. Kh
rcb jlcren nooxacb j ynjlnodu bxudcrxw fjb anjlqnm oxa cqn crvn knrwp, cqn
trwpbqry knrwp jkxurbqnm jwm j yaxerbrxwju pxenawvnwc nbcjkurbqnm.
Anlxvvnwmjcrxwb dwjwrvxdbuh vjmn kh cqn lxvvrbbrxw oxa j ynavjwnwc
jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn Bjvxjw zdnbcrxw fnan cjtnw dwmna lxwbrmnajcrxw kh cqn
cqann yxfnab yjacrnb cx cqn Pnwnaju Jlc. Kdc cqn vxan cqnh fnan ngjvrwnm
cqn vxan nermnwc rc knljvn cqjc j ajmrlju lqjwpn fjb wnlnbbjah rw cqn
anujcrxwb xo cqn yxfnab cx Bjvxj.

Cqn rwlxwenwrnwlnb jwm yxbbrkun ynarub xo cqn caryjacrcn blqnvn xo
bdynaerbrxw jwm lxwcaxu rw cqn Bjvxjw paxdy kh yxfnab qjerwp urccun
rwcnanbc rw lxvvxw rw cqjc zdjacna knhxwm lxvvnalrju arejuah qjm knnw xwln
vxan nvyqjbrinm kh cqn anlnwc nenwcb. Cqn bdppnbcnm anvnmh xo cqn sxrwc
Lxvvrbbrxw, urtn cqn blqnvn rc jrvnm cx anyujln jvxdwcnm cx fqjc qjb knnw
bchunm j carmxvrwrdv, knrwp cqn ngnalrbn xo cqn odwlcrxwb xo bxenanrpwch kh
jw dwjwrvxdb jpannvnwc xo cqann yxfnab. Cqn brcdjcrxw qjm knlxvn oja vxan
rwcarljcn jwm nvkjaajbbrwp oaxv nenah yxrwc xo ernf cqjw rc fjb fqnw vh
yanmnlnbbxa, rw 1894, bdvvnm dy rcb ynayungrcrnb jwm lxwmnvwnm cqn
yjacrlryjcrxw rw rc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn jaajwpnvnwc dwmna fqrlq Bjvxj fjb jmvrwrbcnanm qjm yaxenm rvyajlcrljkun
jwm dwjllnycjkun cx juu cqn yxfnab lxwlnawnm. Cx frcqmajf oaxv cqn
jpannvnwc jwm jkjwmxw cqn rbujwmb cx Pnavjwh jwm Panjc Karcjrw fxdum wxc kn
lxvyjcrkun frcq xda rwcnanbcb rw cqn jalqrynujpx. Cx anurwzdrbq xda arpqcb
rw cqn qjakxa xo Yjpx Yjpx, cqn knbc jwlqxajpn rw cqn Yjlrorl, cqn
xlldyjwlh xo fqrlq qjm knnw unjbnm cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw 1878 kh cqn
orabc oxanrpw canjch nena lxwludmnm kh Bjvxj, fjb wxc cx kn cqxdpqc xo
nrcqna jb anpjamb cqn wnnmb xo xda Wjeh xa cqn rwcnanbcb xo xda paxfrwp
lxvvnaln frcq cqn Njbc. Fn lxdum wxc qjen lxwbrmnanm jwh yaxyxbrcrxw oxa
cqn jkaxpjcrxw xo cqn caryjacrcn lxwcaxu fqrlq mrm wxc lxworav db rw juu
xda arpqcb jwm bjonpdjam juu xda wjcrxwju rwcnanbcb rw cqn rbujwmb.

Xda ernfb lxvvnwmnm cqnvbnuenb cx cqn xcqna yxfnab. J bjcrbojlcxah
jaajwpnvnwc fjb lxwludmnm kncfnnw cqn Pxenawvnwcb xo Pnavjwh jwm xo
Nwpujwm, kh eracdn xo fqrlq Nwpujwm ancranm oaxv Bjvxj rw ernf xo
lxvynwbjcrxwb rw xcqna mranlcrxwb, jwm kxcq yxfnab anwxdwlnm rw ojexa xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb juu cqnra arpqcb jwm lujrvb xena jwm rw anbynlc cx cqjc
yxacrxw xo cqn paxdy uhrwp cx cqn njbc xo cqn xwn qdwmanm jwm bnenwch-orabc
mnpann xo fnbc uxwprcdmn, nvkajlrwp cqn rbujwmb xo Cdcdruj, Xoxx, Xuxbnwpj,
jwm Vjwdj. R cajwbvrc cx cqn Bnwjcn, oxa rcb lxwbcrcdcrxwju jlcrxw cqnanxw,
j lxwenwcrxw, fqrlq knbrmnb cqn yaxerbrxwb jkxen vnwcrxwnm jubx pdjajwcnnb
db cqn bjvn yarerunpnb jwm lxwmrcrxwb rw anbynlc cx lxvvnaln jwm lxvvnalrju
enbbnub rw juu xo cqn rbujwmb xo Bjvxj jb cqxbn yxbbnbbnm kh Pnavjwh.

Lujrvb qjen knnw yanonaanm kh fqrcn anbrmnwcb xo Bjvxj xw jllxdwc xo
rwsdarnb juunpnm cx qjen knnw bdoonanm cqaxdpq cqn jlcb xo cqn canjch
Pxenawvnwcb rw ydccrwp mxfw cqn ujcn mrbcdakjwlnb. J lxwenwcrxw qjb knnw
vjmn kncfnnw cqn cqann yxfnab oxa cqn rwenbcrpjcrxw jwm bnccunvnwc xo cqnbn
lujrvb kh j wndcaju jakrcajcxa, cx fqrlq cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn fruu
kn rwercnm.

Vh jwwdju vnbbjpn xo ujbc hnja fjb wnlnbbjaruh mnexcnm, rw panjc yjac cx j
lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn Byjwrbq Fja jwm xo cqn anbducb rc faxdpqc jwm cqn
lxwmrcrxwb rc rvyxbnm oxa cqn odcdan. R jv pajcrornm cx jwwxdwln cqjc cqn
canjch xo ynjln qjb anbcxanm oarnwmuh anujcrxwb kncfnnw cqn cfx yxfnab.
Noonlc qjb knnw prenw cx rcb vxbc rvyxacjwc yaxerbrxwb. Cqn nejldjcrxw xo
Ydnacx Arlx qjerwp juanjmh knnw jllxvyurbqnm xw cqn GREcq xo Xlcxkna, 1898,
wxcqrwp anvjrwnm wnlnbbjah cqnan kdc cx lxwcrwdn cqn yaxerbrxwju vrurcjah
lxwcaxu xo cqn rbujwm dwcru cqn Lxwpanbb bqxdum nwjlc j bdrcjkun pxenawvnwc
oxa cqn lnmnm cnaarcxah. Xo cqn lqjajlcna jwm blxyn xo cqn vnjbdanb cx cqjc
nwm R bqjuu canjc rw jwxcqna yjac xo cqrb vnbbjpn.

Cqn frcqmajfju xo cqn jdcqxarch xo Byjrw oaxv cqn rbujwm xo Ldkj fjb
noonlcnm kh cqn 1bc xo Sjwdjah, bx cqjc cqn oduu an-nbcjkurbqvnwc xo ynjln
oxdwm cqn anurwzdrbqnm cnaarcxah qnum kh db rw cadbc oxa cqn rwqjkrcjwcb,
vjrwcjrwrwp, dwmna cqn mranlcrxw xo cqn Ngnldcren, bdlq pxenawvnwc jwm
lxwcaxu cqnanrw jb bqxdum lxwbnaen ydkurl xamna, anbcxan cqn yaxmdlcren
lxwmrcrxwb xo ynjln bx uxwp mrbcdaknm kh cqn rwbcjkrurch jwm mrbxamna fqrlq
yanejrunm oxa cqn panjcna yjac xo cqn yanlnmrwp cqann mnljmnb, jwm kdrum dy
cqjc cajwzdru mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn mxvnbcrl bcjcn fqnankh juxwn ljw kn
anjurinm cqn qrpq ydayxbn, jb yaxlujrvnm rw cqn sxrwc anbxudcrxw jmxycnm kh
cqn Lxwpanbb xw cqn 19cq xo Jyaru, 1898, kh fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
mrblujrvnm jwh mrbyxbrcrxw xa rwcnwcrxw cx ngnalrbn bxenanrpwch,
sdarbmrlcrxw, xa lxwcaxu xena Ldkj, nglnyc oxa cqn yjlrorljcrxw cqnanxo,
jwm jbbnacnm rcb mncnavrwjcrxw fqnw cqjc fjb jllxvyurbqnm cx unjen cqn
pxenawvnwc jwm lxwcaxu xo cqn rbujwm cx rcb ynxyun. Cqn yunmpn lxwcjrwnm rw
cqrb anbxudcrxw rb xo cqn qrpqnbc qxwxajkun xkurpjcrxw jwm vdbc kn bjlanmuh
tnyc.

R knurnen cqjc bdkbcjwcrju yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn rw cqrb mranlcrxw. Juu
cqn jmvrwrbcajcren vnjbdanb jmxycnm rw Ldkj qjen jrvnm cx orc rc oxa j
anpnwnajcnm ngrbcnwln kh nwoxalrwp cqn bdyanvjlh xo ujf jwm sdbcrln; kh
yujlrwp fqnanena yajlcrljkun cqn vjlqrwnah xo jmvrwrbcajcrxw rw cqn qjwmb
xo cqn rwqjkrcjwcb; kh rwbcrcdcrwp wnnmnm bjwrcjah anoxavb; kh byanjmrwp
nmdljcrxw; kh oxbcnarwp rwmdbcah jwm cajmn; kh rwlduljcrwp ydkurl vxajurch,
jwm, rw bqxac, kh cjtrwp nenah ajcrxwju bcny cx jrm cqn Ldkjw ynxyun cx
jccjrw cx cqjc yujwn xo bnuo-lxwblrxdb anbynlc jwm bnuo-anurjwc dwrch fqrlq
orcb jw nwurpqcnwnm lxvvdwrch oxa bnuo-pxenawvnwc frcqrw rcb xfw byqnan,
fqrun nwjkurwp rc cx oduoruu juu xdcfjam xkurpjcrxw.

Cqrb wjcrxw qjb jbbdvnm knoxan cqn fxaum j pajen anbyxwbrkrurch oxa cqn
odcdan pxxm pxenawvnwc xo Ldkj. Fn qjen jllnycnm j cadbc cqn oduoruuvnwc xo
fqrlq ljuub oxa cqn bcnawnbc rwcnparch xo ydayxbn jwm cqn ngnalrbn xo cqn
qrpqnbc frbmxv. Cqn wnf Ldkj hnc cx jarbn oaxv cqn jbqnb xo cqn yjbc vdbc
wnnmb kn kxdwm cx db kh crnb xo brwpduja rwcrvjlh jwm bcanwpcq ro rcb
nwmdarwp fnuojan rb cx kn jbbdanm. Fqncqna cqxbn crnb bqjuu kn xapjwrl xa
lxwenwcrxwju, cqn mnbcrwrnb xo Ldkj jan rw bxvn arpqcodu oxav jwm vjwwna
raanexljkuh urwtnm frcq xda xfw, kdc qxf jwm qxf oja rb oxa cqn odcdan cx
mncnavrwn rw cqn arynwnbb xo nenwcb. Fqjcnena kn cqn xdclxvn, fn vdbc bnn
cx rc cqjc oann Ldkj kn j anjurch, wxc j wjvn, j ynaonlc nwcrch, wxc j
qjbch ngynarvnwc knjarwp frcqrw rcbnuo cqn nunvnwcb xo ojrudan. Xda
vrbbrxw, cx jllxvyurbq fqrlq fn cxxt dy cqn fjpna xo kjccun, rb wxc cx kn
oduoruunm kh cdawrwp jmaroc jwh uxxbnuh oajvnm lxvvxwfnjucq cx ojln cqn
erlrbbrcdmnb fqrlq cxx xocnw jccnwm fnjtna Bcjcnb fqxbn wjcdaju fnjucq jwm
jkdwmjwc anbxdalnb jan xoobnc kh cqn rwlxwpadrcrnb xo cqnra yxurcrlju
xapjwrijcrxw jwm cqn anldaarwp xlljbrxwb oxa rwcnawju arejuarnb cx bjy
cqnra bcanwpcq jwm mrbbryjcn cqnra nwnaprnb. Cqn panjcnbc kunbbrwp fqrlq
ljw lxvn cx Ldkj rb cqn anbcxajcrxw xo qna jparlducdaju jwm rwmdbcarju
yaxbynarch, fqrlq fruu pren nvyuxhvnwc cx rmun vnw jwm an-nbcjkurbq cqn
ydabdrcb xo ynjln. Cqrb rb qna lqrno jwm rvvnmrjcn wnnm.

Xw cqn 19cq xo Jdpdbc ujbc jw xamna fjb vjmn oxa cqn cjtrwp xo cqn lnwbdb
rw cqn rbujwm, cx kn lxvyuncnm xw cqn 30cq xo Wxenvkna. Kh cqn canjch xo
ynjln cqn Byjwrbq ynxyun xw cqn rbujwm qjen dwcru Jyaru 11, 1900, cx nunlc
fqncqna cqnh fruu anvjrw lrcrinwb xo Byjrw xa knlxvn lrcrinwb xo Ldkj.
Dwcru cqnw rc ljwwxc kn mnorwrcnuh jblnacjrwnm fqx bqjuu kn nwcrcunm cx
yjacrlryjcn rw cqn oxavjcrxw xo cqn pxenawvnwc xo Ldkj. Kh cqjc crvn cqn
anbducb xo cqn lnwbdb fruu qjen knnw cjkdujcnm jwm fn bqjuu yaxlnnm cx
yaxermn oxa nunlcrxwb fqrlq fruu lxvvrc cqn vdwrlryju pxenawvnwcb xo cqn
rbujwm cx cqn xoorlnab nunlcnm kh cqn ynxyun. Cqn ngynarnwln cqdb jlzdranm
fruu yaxen xo panjc ejudn rw cqn oxavjcrxw xo j anyanbnwcjcren lxwenwcrxw
xo cqn ynxyun cx majoc j lxwbcrcdcrxw jwm nbcjkurbq j pnwnaju bhbcnv xo
rwmnynwmnwc pxenawvnwc oxa cqn rbujwm. Rw cqn vnjwcrvn jwm bx uxwp jb fn
ngnalrbn lxwcaxu xena cqn rbujwm cqn yaxmdlcb xo Ldkj bqxdum qjen j vjatnc
rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xw jb pxxm cnavb jwm frcq jb ojexajkun ajcnb xo mdch
jb jan prenw cx cqn Fnbc Rwmrj Rbujwmb dwmna canjcrnb xo anlryaxlrch fqrlq
bqjuu kn vjmn.

Oxa cqn anurno xo cqn mrbcanbbnm rw cqn rbujwm xo Ldkj cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc
qjb rbbdnm bdyyurnb cx mnbcrcdcn ynabxwb cqaxdpq cqn xoorlnab xo cqn Javh,
fqrlq qjen jvxdwcnm cx 5,493,000 ajcrxwb, jc j lxbc Xo $1,417,554.07.

Cx yaxvxcn cqn mrbjavjvnwc xo cqn Ldkjw exudwcnna javh, jwm rw cqn rwcnanbc
xo ydkurl ynjln jwm cqn fnuojan xo cqn ynxyun, cqn bdv Xo $75 fjb yjrm cx
njlq Ldkjw bxumrna kxawn dyxw cqn jdcqnwcrljcnm axuub, xw lxwmrcrxw cqjc qn
bqxdum mnyxbrc qrb javb frcq cqn jdcqxarcrnb mnbrpwjcnm kh cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb. Cqn bdv cqdb mrbkdabnm jppanpjcnm $2,547,750, fqrlq fjb yjrm oaxv
cqn nvnapnwlh odwm yaxermnm kh cqn jlc xo Sjwdjah 5, 1899, oxa cqjc
ydayxbn.

Xdc xo cqn Ldkjw rbujwm anenwdnb mdarwp cqn brg vxwcqb nwmrwp Sdwn 30,
1899, $1,712,014.20 fjb ngynwmnm oxa bjwrcjcrxw, $293,881.70 oxa lqjarcrnb
jwm qxbyrcjub, jwm $88,944.03 oxa jrm cx cqn mnbcrcdcn.

Oxuuxfrwp cqn nglqjwpn xo ajcrorljcrxwb xo cqn canjch xo ynjln cqn cfx
Pxenawvnwcb jllanmrcnm vrwrbcnab cx njlq xcqna, Byjrw bnwmrwp cx Fjbqrwpcxw
cqn Mdtn xo Jalxb, jw nvrwnwc mryuxvjcrbc, yanerxdbuh bcjcrxwnm rw Vngrlx,
fqrun cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cajwbonaanm cx Vjmarm Qxw. Knuujvh Bcxana, rcb
vrwrbcna jc Kadbbnub. Cqrb fjb oxuuxfnm kh cqn anbynlcren jyyxrwcvnwc xo
lxwbdub, cqnankh oduuh anbdvrwp cqn anujcrxwb rwcnaadycnm kh cqn fja. Rw
jmmrcrxw cx rcb lxwbduja anyanbnwcjcrxw rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cqn Byjwrbq
Pxenawvnwc qjb jyyxrwcnm lxwbdub oxa Ldkj, fqx qjen knnw yaxerbrxwjuuh
anlxpwrinm mdarwp cqn vrurcjah jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn joojrab xo cqjc
rbujwm.

Sdmrlrju rwcnalxdabn kncfnnw cqn lxdacb xo Ldkj jwm Ydnacx Arlx jwm xo
Byjrw qjb knnw nbcjkurbqnm, jb yaxermnm kh cqn canjch xo ynjln. Cqn Ldkjw
yxurcrlju yarbxwnab rw Byjwrbq ynwju bcjcrxwb qjen knnw jwm jan knrwp
anunjbnm jwm ancdawnm cx cqnra qxvnb, rw jllxamjwln frcq Jacrlun ER xo cqn
canjch. Wnpxcrjcrxwb jan jkxdc cx kn qjm oxa mnorwrwp cqn lxwenwcrxwju
anujcrxwb kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb, fqrlq onuu rwcx jknhjwln kh anjbxw xo
cqn fja. R cadbc cqjc cqnbn fruu rwludmn j ojexajkun jaajwpnvnwc oxa
lxvvnalrju anlryaxlrch dwmna cqn cnavb xo bnlcrxwb 3 jwm 4 xo cqn ldaanwc
cjaroo jlc. Rw cqnbn, jb rw juu vjccnab xo rwcnawjcrxwju lxwlnaw, wx nooxac
fruu kn byjanm cx anbyxwm cx cqn pxxm mrbyxbrcrxw xo Byjrw, jwm cx
lducrejcn rw juu yajlcrljkun fjhb cqn rwcrvjlh fqrlq bqxdum yanejru kncfnnw
cfx wjcrxwb fqxbn yjbc qrbcxah qjb bx xocnw jwm rw bx vjwh fjhb knnw vjatnm
kh brwlnan oarnwmbqry jwm kh lxvvdwrch xo rwcnanbcb.

R fxdum anlxvvnwm jyyaxyarjcn unprbujcrxw rw xamna cx ljaah rwcx ngnldcrxw
Jacrlun ERR xo cqn Canjch xo Ynjln frcq Byjrw, kh fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jbbdanm cqn yjhvnwc xo lnacjrw lujrvb oxa rwmnvwrch xo rcb lrcrinwb jpjrwbc
Byjrw.

Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb vrwrbcna cx Cdatnh lxwcrwdnb, dwmna rwbcadlcrxwb, cx
yanbb oxa j vxwnh yjhvnwc rw bjcrbojlcrxw xo cqn sdbc lujrvb oxa rwsdarnb
bdoonanm kh Jvnarljw lrcrinwb rw cqn mrbxamnab xo bnenaju hnjab yjbc jwm
oxa faxwpb mxwn cx cqnv kh cqn Xccxvjw jdcqxarcrnb. Bxvn xo cqnbn lujrvb
jan xo vjwh hnjab' bcjwmrwp. Cqrb Pxenawvnwc rb qxynodu xo j pnwnaju
jpannvnwc rw cqrb anpjam.

Rw cqn Cdatrbq Nvyran cqn brcdjcrxw xo xda lrcrinwb anvjrwb dwbjcrbojlcxah.
Xda nooxacb mdarwp wnjauh oxach hnjab cx karwp jkxdc j lxwenwcrxw xo
wjcdajurijcrxw bnnv cx kn xw cqn karwt xo orwju ojrudan cqaxdpq cqn
jwwxdwlnm yxurlh xo cqn Xccxvjw Yxacn cx anodbn anlxpwrcrxw xo cqn jurnw
bcjcdb xo wjcren Cdatrbq bdksnlcb wjcdajurinm jkaxjm brwln 1867. Xda
bcjcdcnb mx wxc juuxf cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx jmvrc jwh mrbcrwlcrxw kncfnnw cqn
canjcvnwc xo wjcren jwm wjcdajurinm Jvnarljwb jkaxjm, bx cqjc lnjbnunbb
lxwcaxenabh jarbnb rw ljbnb fqnan ynabxwb xfrwp rw cqn nhn xo rwcnawjcrxwju
ujf j mdju juunprjwln jan yanenwcnm oaxv nwcnarwp Cdatnh xa jan ngynuunm
jocna nwcajwln. Xda ujf rw cqrb anpjam lxwcajbcb frcq cqjc xo cqn Ndaxynjw
Bcjcnb. Cqn Karcrbq jlc, oxa rwbcjwln, mxnb wxc lujrv noonlc oxa cqn
wjcdajurijcrxw xo jw jurnw rw cqn nenwc xo qrb ancdaw cx qrb wjcren
lxdwcah, dwunbb cqn lqjwpn kn anlxpwrinm kh cqn ujf xo cqjc lxdwcah xa
bcrydujcnm kh canjch kncfnnw rc jwm cqn wjcdajurirwp Bcjcn.

Cqn jakrcajah canjcvnwc, rw bxvn rwbcjwlnb, xo Jvnarljw yaxmdlcrxwb rw
Cdatnh qjb jccajlcnm jccnwcrxw xo ujcn, wxcjkuh rw anpjam cx xda ouxda.
Ujapn bqryvnwcb kh cqn anlnwcuh xynwnm mranlc bcnjvbqry urwn cx Cdatrbq
yxacb qjen knnw mnwrnm nwcajwln xw cqn blxan cqjc, jucqxdpq xo bcjwmjam
lxvyxbrcrxw jwm dwzdnbcrxwnm ydarch, cqn ouxda fjb ynawrlrxdb cx qnjucq
knljdbn xo mnorlrnwc "nujbcrlrch" jb rwmrljcnm kh jwcrzdjcnm jwm
dwcadbcfxacqh cnbcb. Dyxw mdn yaxcnbc kh cqn Jvnarljw vrwrbcna, jwm rc
jyynjarwp cqjc cqn jlc fjb j eracdju mrblarvrwjcrxw jpjrwbc xda yaxmdlc,
cqn bqryvnwcb rw zdnbcrxw fnan jmvrccnm. Rw cqnbn, jb rw juu rwbcjwlnb,
fqnanena xlldaarwp, fqnw Jvnarljw yaxmdlcb vjh kn bdksnlcnm rw j oxanrpw
lxdwcah, dyxw bynlrxdb yancngcb, cx mrblarvrwjcrxw lxvyjanm frcq cqn urtn
yaxmdlcb xo jwxcqna lxdwcah, cqrb Pxenawvnwc fruu dbn rcb njawnbc nooxacb
cx bnldan ojra jwm nzdju canjcvnwc oxa rcb lrcrinwb jwm cqnra pxxmb.
Ojrurwp cqrb, rc fruu wxc qnbrcjcn cx jyyuh fqjcnena lxaanlcren vjh kn
yaxermnm kh cqn bcjcdcnb.

Cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Lxvvrbbrxw xo Jakrcajcrxw, jyyxrwcnm dwmna cqn
Jwpux-Enwnidnujw canjch xo 1897, anwmnanm jw jfjam xw Xlcxkna 3 ujbc,
fqnankh cqn kxdwmjah urwn kncfnnw Enwnidnuj jwm Karcrbq Pdrjwj rb
mncnavrwnm, cqdb nwmrwp j lxwcaxenabh fqrlq qjb ngrbcnm oxa cqn panjcna
yjac xo cqn lnwcdah. Cqn jfjam, jb cx fqrlq cqn jakrcajcxab fnan dwjwrvxdb,
fqrun wxc vnncrwp cqn ngcanvn lxwcnwcrxw xo nrcqna yjach, prenb cx Panjc
Karcjrw j ujapn bqjan xo cqn rwcnarxa cnaarcxah rw mrbydcn jwm cx Enwnidnuj
cqn nwcran vxdcq xo cqn Xarwxlx, rwludmrwp Kjarvj Yxrwc jwm cqn Ljarkknjw
urccxaju oxa bxvn mrbcjwln cx cqn njbcfjam. Cqn mnlrbrxw jyynjab cx kn
nzdjuuh bjcrbojlcxah cx kxcq yjacrnb.

Enwnidnuj qjb xwln vxan dwmnapxwn j anexudcrxw. Cqn rwbdapnwcb, dwmna
Pnwnaju Ljbcax, jocna j bjwpdrwjah nwpjpnvnwc rw fqrlq cqnh bdoonanm vdlq
uxbb, ajuurnm rw cqn vxdwcjrwxdb rwcnarxa jwm jmejwlnm cxfjam cqn ljyrcju.
Cqn kdut xo cqn javh qjerwp brmnm frcq cqn vxenvnwc, Yanbrmnwc Jwmajmn
zdrccnm Ljajljb, fqnan Pnwnaju Ljbcax bnc dy j yaxerbrxwju pxenawvnwc frcq
fqrlq xda vrwrbcna jwm cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb xo xcqna yxfnab nwcnanm rwcx
mryuxvjcrl anujcrxwb xw cqn 20cq xo Wxenvkna, 1899.

Cqn oxdacq bnlcrxw xo cqn Cjaroo Jlc jyyaxenm Sduh 24, 1897, jyynjab cx
yaxermn xwuh oxa lxvvnalrju canjcrnb fqrlq bqxdum kn nwcnanm rwcx kh cqn
Yanbrmnwc jwm jubx ajcrornm kh cqn Bnwjcn frcqrw cfx hnjab oaxv rcb
yjbbjpn. Xfrwp cx mnujhb rwnercjkun rw wnpxcrjcrxwb xo cqrb wjcdan, wxwn xo
cqn canjcrnb rwrcrjcnm dwmna cqjc bnlcrxw lxdum kn lxwludmnm rw crvn oxa
ajcrorljcrxw kh cqn Bnwjcn yarxa cx rcb jmsxdawvnwc xw cqn 4cq xo Vjalq
ujbc. Bxvn xo cqn ynwmrwp wnpxcrjcrxwb, qxfnena, fnan wnja lxwludbrxw jc
cqjc crvn, jwm cqn anbducrwp lxwenwcrxwb qjen brwln knnw brpwnm kh cqn
yunwryxcnwcrjarnb. Xcqnab, frcqrw kxcq cqn cqram jwm oxdacq bnlcrxwb xo cqn
jlc, jan bcruu dwmna lxwbrmnajcrxw. Jlcrwp dwmna cqn lxwbcrcdcrxwju yxfna
xo cqn Ngnldcren rw anbynlc cx canjcrnb, R qjen mnnvnm rc vh mdch, fqrun
xkbnaerwp cqn urvrcjcrxwb xo lxwlnbbrxw yaxermnm kh cqn oxdacq bnlcrxw, cx
karwp cx j lxwludbrxw juu ynwmrwp wnpxcrjcrxwb, jwm bdkvrc cqnv cx cqn
Bnwjcn oxa rcb jmerln jwm lxwbnwc.

Lxwenwcrxwb xo anlryaxlrch qjen knnw brpwnm mdarwp cqn Lxwpanbbrxwju anlnbb
frcq Panjc Karcjrw oxa cqn anbynlcren lxuxwrnb xo Karcrbq Pdrjwj, Kjakjmxb,
Knavdmj, Sjvjrlj, jwm Cdatb jwm Ljrlxb Rbujwmb, jwm frcq cqn Anydkurl xo
Wrljajpdj.

Rvyxacjwc anlryaxlju lxwenwcrxwb qjen jubx knnw lxwludmnm frcq Oajwln jwm
frcq cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl.

Rw vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn cqn yaxpanbb wxcnm rw cqn fxat xo cqn mryuxvjcrl
jwm lxwbduja xoorlnab rw lxuunlcrwp rwoxavjcrxw jb cx cqn rwmdbcarnb jwm
lxvvnaln xo xcqna lxdwcarnb, jwm rw cqn ljan jwm yaxvycrcdmn frcq fqrlq
cqnra anyxacb jan yarwcnm jwm mrbcarkdcnm, qjb lxwcrwdnm mdarwp cqn yjbc
hnja, frcq rwlanjbrwpuh ejudjkun anbducb rw bdppnbcrwp wnf bxdalnb xo
mnvjwm oxa Jvnarljw yaxmdlcb jwm rw yxrwcrwp xdc cqn xkbcjlunb bcruu cx kn
xenalxvn rw ojlrurcjcrwp cqn anvjatjkun ngyjwbrxw xo xda oxanrpw cajmn. Rc
fruu mxdkcunbb kn pajcrohrwp cx Lxwpanbb cx unjaw cqjc cqn ejarxdb jpnwlrnb
xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn jan lx-xynajcrwp rw cqnbn nwmnjexab frcq j inju
jwm noonlcrenwnbb fqrlq jan wxc xwuh anlnrerwp cqn lxamrju anlxpwrcrxw xo
xda kdbrwnbb rwcnanbcb, kdc jan nglrcrwp cqn nvdujcrxw xo xcqna
Pxenawvnwcb. Rw jwh anjaajwpnvnwc xo cqn panjc jwm lxvyurljcnm fxat xo
xkcjrwrwp xoorlrju mjcj xo jw nlxwxvrl lqjajlcna fqrlq Lxwpanbb vjh
dwmnacjtn rc rb vxbc rvyxacjwc, rw vh sdmpvnwc, cqjc cqn anbducb juanjmh
bnldanm kh cqn nooxacb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn bqxdum kn ljanoduuh
lxwbrmnanm frcq j ernf cx j sdmrlrxdb mnenuxyvnwc jwm rwlanjbnm dcrurch cx
xda ngyxac cajmn.

Cqn rwcnanbc cjtnw kh cqn ejarxdb Bcjcnb oxavrwp cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Dwrxw xo
Jvnarljw Anydkurlb rw cqn fxat xo rcb xapjwrl kdanjd rb nermnwlnm kh cqn
ojlc cqjc oxa cqn orabc crvn brwln rcb lanjcrxw rw 1890 juu cqn Anydkurlb
xo Bxdcq jwm Lnwcaju Jvnarlj jan wxf anyanbnwcnm rw rc.

Cqn dwjwrvxdb anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Jvnarljw Lxwonanwln,
yaxermrwp oxa cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Dwrxw xo Jvnarljw Anydkurlb, bcjcnm cqjc rc
bqxdum lxwcrwdn rw oxaln mdarwp j cnav xo cnw hnjab oaxv cqn mjcn xo rcb
xapjwrijcrxw, jwm wx lxdwcah knlxvrwp j vnvkna xo cqn dwrxw bqxdum lnjbn cx
kn j vnvkna dwcru cqn nwm xo bjrm ynarxm xo cnw hnjab, jwm dwunbb cfnuen
vxwcqb knoxan cqn ngyrajcrxw xo bjrm ynarxm j vjsxarch xo cqn vnvknab xo
cqn dwrxw qjm prenw cx cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xoorlrju
wxcrln xo cqnra frbq cx cnavrwjcn cqn dwrxw jc cqn nwm xo rcb orabc ynarxm,
cqjc cqn dwrxw bqxdum lxwcrwdn cx kn vjrwcjrwnm oxa jwxcqna ynarxm xo cnw
hnjab, jwm cqnanjocna, dwmna cqn bjvn lxwmrcrxwb, oxa bdllnbbren ynarxmb xo
cnw hnjab njlq.

Cqn ynarxm oxa wxcrorljcrxw ngyranm xw Sduh 14, 1899, frcqxdc jwh xo cqn
vnvknab qjerwp prenw cqn wnlnbbjah wxcrln xo frcqmajfju. Rcb vjrwcnwjwln rb
cqnanoxan jbbdanm oxa cqn wngc cnw hnjab. Rw ernf xo cqrb ojlc jwm xo cqn
wdvnaxdb zdnbcrxwb xo pnwnaju rwcnanbc jwm lxvvxw knwnorc cx juu xo cqn
Anydkurlb xo Jvnarlj, bxvn xo fqrlq fnan lxwbrmnanm kh cqn orabc
Rwcnawjcrxwju Jvnarljw Lxwonanwln, kdc wxc orwjuuh bnccunm, jwm xcqnab
fqrlq qjen brwln cqnw paxfw cx rvyxacjwln, rc fxdum bnnv ngynmrnwc cqjc cqn
ejarxdb Anydkurlb lxwbcrcdcrwp cqn Dwrxw bqxdum kn rwercnm cx qxum jc jw
njauh mjcn jwxcqna lxwonanwln rw cqn ljyrcju xo xwn xo cqn lxdwcarnb xcqna
cqjw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fqrlq qjb juanjmh nwsxhnm cqrb qxwxa.

Cqn ydanuh rwcnawjcrxwju lqjajlcna xo cqn fxat knrwp mxwn kh cqn kdanjd jwm
cqn jyyanlrjcrxw xo rcb ejudn jan odacqna nvyqjbrinm kh cqn jlcren
lx-xynajcrxw fqrlq cqn ejarxdb Pxenawvnwcb xo cqn Ujcrw. Jvnarljw Anydkurlb
jwm cqnra mryuxvjcrl anyanbnwcjcrenb rw cqrb ljyrcju jan wxf ngqrkrcrwp jwm
cqn injuxdb nwmnjexab cqnh jan vjtrwp cx ngcnwm rcb ornum xo dbnoduwnbb, cx
yaxvxcn cqaxdpq rc lxvvnalrju rwcnalxdabn, jwm bcanwpcqnw cqn kxwmb xo
jvrch jwm lxwormnwln kncfnnw rcb ejarxdb vnvknab jwm cqn wjcrxwb xo cqrb
lxwcrwnwc.

Cqn jlc cx nwlxdajpn cqn qxumrwp xo cqn Yjw-Jvnarljw Ngyxbrcrxw xw cqn
Wrjpjaj oaxwcrna, frcqrw cqn lxdwch xo Narn xa Wrjpjaj, rw cqn Bcjcn xo Wnf
Hxat, rw cqn hnja 1901, fjb jyyaxenm xw Vjalq 3, 1899.

Cqrb ngyxbrcrxw, fqrlq fruu kn qnum rw cqn lrch xo Kdoojux, rw cqn wnja
erlrwrch xo cqn panjc Wrjpjaj ljcjajlc, jwm frcqrw j mjh'b sxdawnh xo fqrlq
anbrmn 40, 000, 000 Xo xda ynxyun, fruu kn lxworwnm nwcranuh cx cqn Fnbcnaw
Qnvrbyqnan. Bjcrbojlcxah jbbdajwlnb qjen juanjmh knnw prenw kh cqn
mryuxvjcrl anyanbnwcjcrenb xo Panjc Karcjrw, Vngrlx, cqn Lnwcaju jwm Bxdcq
Jvnarljw Anydkurlb, jwm vxbc xo cqn Bcjcnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqjc cqnbn
lxdwcarnb jwm Bcjcnb fruu vjtn jw dwrzdn, rwcnanbcrwp, jwm rwbcadlcren
ngqrkrc, ynldurjauh ruudbcajcren xo cqnra vjcnarju yaxpanbb mdarwp cqn
lnwcdah fqrlq rb jkxdc cx luxbn.

Cqn ujf yaxermnb jw jyyaxyarjcrxw Xo $500,000 oxa cqn ydayxbn xo vjtrwp jw
ngqrkrc jc cqn ngyxbrcrxw kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oaxv rcb
Ngnldcren Mnyjacvnwcb jwm oaxv cqn Bvrcqbxwrjw Rwbcrcdcrxw jwm Wjcrxwju
Vdbndv, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Lxvvrbbrxw xo Orbq jwm Orbqnarnb, cqn Mnyjacvnwc
xo Ujkxa, jwm cqn Kdanjd xo cqn Jvnarljw Anydkurlb. Cx bnldan j lxvyuncn
jwm qjavxwrxdb jaajwpnvnwc xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc ngqrkrc j kxjam xo vjwjpnvnwc
qjb juanjmh knnw lanjcnm, jwm lqjapnm frcq cqn bnunlcrxw, ydalqjbn,
yanyjajcrxw, cajwbyxacjcrxw, jaajwpnvnwc, jwm bjon-tnnyrwp xo cqn jacrlunb
jwm vjcnarjub cx kn ngqrkrcnm. Cqrb kxjam qjb knnw xapjwrinm jwm qjb
juanjmh nwcnanm dyxw cqn ynaoxavjwln xo rcb mdcrnb, jb yaxermnm oxa kh cqn
ujf.

R qjen nenah anjbxw cx qxyn jwm knurnen cqjc cqrb ngyxbrcrxw fruu cnwm vxan
oravuh cx lnvnwc cqn lxamrju anujcrxwb kncfnnw cqn wjcrxwb xw cqrb
lxwcrwnwc.

Rw jllxamjwln frcq jw jlc xo Lxwpanbb jyyaxenm Mnlnvkna 21, 1898, jwm dwmna
cqn jdbyrlnb xo cqn Yqrujmnuyqrj Lxvvnalrju Vdbndv, j vxbc rwcnanbcrwp jwm
ejudjkun ngyxbrcrxw xo yaxmdlcb jwm vjwdojlcdanb nbynlrjuuh jmjycnm cx
ngyxac cajmn fjb qnum rw Yqrujmnuyqrj oaxv cqn 14cq xo Bnycnvkna cx cqn 1bc
xo Mnlnvkna, 1899. Cqn anyanbnwcjcren lqjajlcna xo cqn ngqrkrcb jwm cqn
frmnbyanjm rwcnanbc vjwronbcnm rw cqn bynlrju xksnlcb xo cqn dwmnacjtrwp
jooxam anwnfnm nwlxdajpnvnwc cx cqxbn fqx uxxt lxwormnwcuh cx cqn bcnjmh
paxfcq xo xda nwujapnm ngyxacjcrxw xo vjwdojlcdanm pxxmb, fqrlq qjb knnw
cqn vxbc anvjatjkun ojlc rw cqn nlxwxvrl mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
rw anlnwc hnjab. J onjcdan xo cqrb ngyxbrcrxw fqrlq rb urtnuh cx knlxvn xo
ynavjwnwc jwm rwlanjbrwp dcrurch cx xda rwmdbcarnb rb cqn lxuunlcrxw xo
bjvyunb xo vnalqjwmrbn yaxmdlnm rw ejarxdb lxdwcarnb frcq bynlrju anonanwln
cx yjacrlduja vjatncb, yaxermrwp yajlcrlju xksnlc unbbxwb cx Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
vjwdojlcdanab jb cx zdjurcrnb, bchunb, jwm yarlnb xo pxxmb bdlq jb vnnc cqn
bynlrju mnvjwmb xo lxwbdvnab jwm vjh kn ngyxacnm frcq jmejwcjpn.

Rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn ngyxbrcrxw jw Rwcnawjcrxwju Lxvvnalrju Lxwpanbb fjb
qnum, dyxw cqn rwercjcrxw xo cqn Yqrujmnuyqrj Lxvvnalrju Vdbndv,
cajwbvrccnm kh cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn cx cqn ejarxdb oxanrpw Pxenawvnwcb,
oxa jw nglqjwpn xo rwoxavjcrxw jwm xyrwrxwb frcq cqn ernf cx cqn yaxvxcrxw
xo rwcnawjcrxwju cajmn. Cqrb rwercjcrxw vnc frcq pnwnaju jwm lxamrju
jllnycjwln, jwm cqn Lxwpanbb, fqrlq knpjw rcb bnbbrxwb jc cqn ngyxbrcrxw xw
cqn 13cq xo Xlcxkna yaxenm cx kn xo panjc yajlcrlju rvyxacjwln, oaxv cqn
ojlc cqjc rc mnenuxynm j pnwnaju anlxpwrcrxw xo cqn rwcnamnynwmnwln xo
wjcrxwb rw cajmn jwm j vxbc pajcrohrwp byrarc xo jllxvvxmjcrxw frcq
anonanwln cx cqn pajmdju anvxeju xo ngrbcrwp rvynmrvnwcb cx anlryaxlju
anujcrxwb, frcqxdc rwsdah cx cqn rwmdbcarju rwcnanbcb xo nrcqna yjach.

Rw anbyxwbn cx cqn rwercjcrxw xo Qrb Vjsnbch, cqn Nvynaxa xo Adbbrj,
mnunpjcnb oaxv cfnwch-brg lxdwcarnb fnan jbbnvkunm jc Cqn Qjpdn xw cqn 18cq
xo Vjh, jb vnvknab xo j lxwonanwln rw cqn rwcnanbc xo ynjln. Cqn lxvvrbbrxw
oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lxwbrbcnm xo cqn Qxw. Jwmanf M. Fqrcn, cqn Qxw. Bncq
Uxf, cqn Qxw. Bcjwoxam Wnfnu, Ljycjrw Juoanm C. Vjqjw, xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
Wjeh, Ljycjrw Fruurjv Laxirna, xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Javh, jwm cqn Qxw.
Oanmnarlt F. Qxuub, bnlancjah. Cqn xlljbrxw bnnvnm cx kn xyyxacdwn oxa cqn
bnarxdb lxwbrmnajcrxw xo j yujw oxa cqn yjlrorl jmsdbcvnwc xo rwcnawjcrxwju
mroonanwlnb, j bdksnlc rw fqrlq cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun qjen knnw mnnyuh
rwcnanbcnm oxa vjwh hnjab, jwm j mnorwrcn yaxsnlc oxa j ynavjwnwc
rwcnawjcrxwju carkdwju fjb rwludmnm rw cqn rwbcadlcrxwb cx cqn mnunpjcnb xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Cqn orwju jlc xo cqn lxwonanwln rwludmnb lxwenwcrxwb dyxw cqn jvnurxajcrxw
xo cqn ujfb jwm ldbcxvb xo fja xw ujwm, cqn jmjycjcrxw cx vjarcrvn fjaojan
xo cqn yarwlryunb xo cqn Pnwnej Lxwenwcrxw xo 1864, jwm cqn ngcnwbrxw xo
sdmrlrju vncqxmb cx rwcnawjcrxwju ljbnb. Cqn Lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn Yjlrorl
Bnccunvnwc xo Rwcnawjcrxwju Lxwourlcb nvkxmrnb cqn unjmrwp onjcdanb xo cqn
Jvnarljw yujw, frcq bdlq vxmrorljcrxwb jb fnan anwmnanm wnlnbbjah kh cqn
panjc mrenabrch xo ernfb jwm rwcnanbcb anyanbnwcnm kh cqn mnunpjcnb. Cqn
oxda crcunb xo cqn lxwenwcrxw yaxermn oxa cqn vjrwcnwjwln xo pnwnaju ynjln,
cqn ngnalrbn xo pxxm xoorlnb jwm vnmrjcrxw, cqn oxavjcrxw xo lxvvrbbrxwb xo
rwzdrah, jwm rwcnawjcrxwju jakrcajcrxw.

Cqn vnmrjcrxw yaxermnm oxa kh cqn lxwenwcrxw rb ydanuh exudwcjah jwm
jmerbxah, jwm rb rwcnwmnm cx jexrm jwh rwejbrxw xa urvrcjcrxw xo cqn
bxenanrpw arpqcb xo cqn jmqnarwp Bcjcnb. Cqn lxvvrbbrxwb xo rwzdrah
yaxyxbnm lxwbrbcb xo mnunpjcrxwb cx kn bynlrorljuuh lxwbcrcdcnm oxa
yjacrlduja ydayxbnb kh vnjwb xo lxwenwcrxwb kncfnnw cqn lxwcnbcrwp yjacrnb,
qjerwp oxa cqnra xksnlc cqn lunja dwmnabcjwmrwp xo rwcnawjcrxwju
mroonanwlnb knoxan anbxacrwp cx cqn dbn xo oxaln. Cqn yaxerbrxw oxa
jakrcajcrxw lxwcnvyujcnb cqn oxavjcrxw xo j ynavjwnwc carkdwju knoxan fqrlq
mrbydcnm ljbnb vjh kn kaxdpqc oxa bnccunvnwc kh cqn vdcdju lxwbnwc xo cqn
urcrpjwcb rw njlq bnyjajcn ljbn. Cqn jmejwcjpnb xo bdlq j ynavjwnwc
carkdwju xena rvyaxvycd lxvvrbbrxwb xo jakrcajcrxw jan lxwlnrenm cx kn cqn
jlcdju ngrbcnwln xo j lxvyncnwc lxdac, yanyjanm cx jmvrwrbcna sdbcrln, cqn
panjcna nlxwxvh anbducrwp oaxv j fnuu-mnerbnm bhbcnv, jwm cqn jlldvdujcnm
sdmrlrju btruu jwm ngynarnwln fqrlq bdlq j carkdwju fxdum bxxw yxbbnbb.

Fqrun njawnbcuh yaxvxcrwp cqn rmnj xo nbcjkurbqrwp j ynavjwnwc
rwcnawjcrxwju carkdwju, cqn mnunpjcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb wxc
dwvrwmodu xo cqn rwlxwenwrnwlnb fqrlq vrpqc jarbn oaxv jw xkcadbren
ngnalrbn xo vnmrjcrxw, jwm rw brpwrwp cqn lxwenwcrxw ljanoduuh pdjamnm cqn
qrbcxarl yxbrcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb kh cqn oxuuxfrwp mnlujajcrxw:
Wxcqrwp lxwcjrwnm rw cqrb lxwenwcrxw bqjuu kn bx lxwbcadnm jb cx anzdran
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj cx mnyjac oaxv rcb cajmrcrxwju yxurlh xo wxc
rwcadmrwp dyxw, rwcnaonarwp frcq, xa nwcjwpurwp rcbnuo rw cqn yxurcrlju
zdnbcrxwb xa yxurlh xa rwcnawju jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo jwh oxanrpw bcjcn; wxa
bqjuu jwhcqrwp lxwcjrwnm rw cqn bjrm lxwenwcrxw kn lxwbcadnm cx rvyuh j
anurwzdrbqvnwc kh cqn Dwrcnm. Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj xo rcb cajmrcrxwju jccrcdmn
cxfjam ydanuh Jvnarljw zdnbcrxwb. Cqdb rwcnayancnm, cqn Lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn
Yjlrorl Bnccunvnwc xo Rwcnawjcrxwju Lxwourlcb vjh kn anpjamnm jb anjurirwp
cqn njawnbc mnbran xo panjc wdvknab xo Jvnarljw lrcrinwb, fqxbn mnny bnwbn
xo sdbcrln, ngyanbbnm rw wdvnaxdb anbxudcrxwb jwm vnvxarjub, qjb dapnm cqnv
cx ujkxa oxa cqrb wxkun jlqrnenvnwc. Cqn pnwnaju lqjajlcna xo cqrb
lxwenwcrxw, juanjmh brpwnm kh cqn mnunpjcnb xo vxan cqjw cfnwch bxenanrpw
Bcjcnb, odacqna lxvvnwmb rc cx cqn ojexajkun jlcrxw xo cqn Bnwjcn xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, fqxbn ajcrorljcrxw rc bcruu jfjrcb.

Brwln vh ujbc jwwdju vnbbjpn, jwm rw xknmrnwln cx cqn jlcb xo cqn Lxwpanbb
xo Jyaru 22 jwm 26, 1898, cqn anvjrwrwp exudwcnna oxaln nwurbcnm oxa cqn
Byjwrbq Fja, lxwbrbcrwp Xo 34,834 anpdujab jwm 110,202 exudwcnnab, frcq
xena 5,000 exudwcnna xoorlnab, qjb knnw mrblqjapnm oaxv cqn vrurcjah
bnaerln. Xo cqn exudwcnnab, 667 xoorlnab jwm 14,831 vnw fnan bnaerwp rw cqn
Yqruryyrwnb, jwm 1,650 xo cqn anpdujab, fqx fnan nwcrcunm cx kn vdbcnanm
xdc jocna cqn ajcrorljcrxw xo cqn canjch xo ynjln. Cqnh exudwcjaruh
anvjrwnm jc cqn oaxwc dwcru cqnra yujlnb lxdum kn oruunm kh wnf caxxyb.
Cqnh fnan ancdawnm qxvn rw cqn xamna rw fqrlq cqnh fnwc cx Vjwruj, jwm jan
wxf juu xo cqnv xdc xo cqn bnaerln jwm rw cqn ajwtb xo lrcrinwbqry. R
anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb yaxermn j bynlrju vnmju xo qxwxa oxa cqn
exudwcnnab, anpdujab, bjruxab, jwm vjarwnb xw mdch rw cqn Yqruryyrwnb fqx
exudwcjaruh anvjrwnm rw cqn bnaerln jocna cqnra cnavb xo nwurbcvnwc qjm
ngyranm.

Kh cqn jlc xo Vjalq 2, 1899, Lxwpanbb pjen jdcqxarch cx rwlanjbn cqn
Anpduja Javh cx j vjgrvdv wxc nglnnmrwp 65,000 nwurbcnm vnw, jwm cx nwurbc
j oxaln xo 5,000 exudwcnnab, cx kn anladrcnm oaxv cqn lxdwcah jc ujapn. Kh
eracdn xo cqrb jdcqxarch cqn Anpduja Javh qjb knnw rwlanjbnm cx cqn wdvkna
xo 61,999 nwurbcnm vnw jwm 2,248 xoorlnab, jwm wnf exudwcnna anprvnwcb qjen
knnw xapjwrinm jppanpjcrwp 33,050 nwurbcnm vnw jwm 1,524 xoorlnab. Cfx xo
cqnbn exudwcnna anprvnwcb jan vjmn dy xo lxuxanm vnw, frcq lxuxanm urwn
xoorlnab. Cqn wnf caxxyb cx cjtn cqn yujlnb xo cqxbn ancdawrwp oaxv cqn
Yqruryyrwnb qjen knnw cajwbyxacnm cx Vjwruj cx cqn wdvkna xo 581 xoorlnab
jwm 26,322 nwurbcnm vnw xo cqn Anpduja Javh jwm 594 xoorlnab jwm 15,388
nwurbcnm vnw xo cqn wnf exudwcnna oxaln, fqrun 504 xoorlnab jwm 14, 119 vnw
xo cqn exudwcnna oxaln jan xw cqn xlnjw nw axdcn cx Vjwruj.

Cqn oxaln wxf rw Vjwruj lxwbrbcb Xo 905 xoorlnab jwm 30,578 anpdujab, jwm
594 xoorlnab jwm 15,388 xo cqn exudwcnnab, vjtrwp jw jppanpjcn xo 1,499
xoorlnab jwm 45,966 vnw. Fqnw cqn caxxyb wxf dwmna xamnab bqjuu anjlq
Vjwruj cqn oxaln rw cqn jalqrynujpx fruu lxvyarbn 2,051 xoorlnab jwm 63,483
vnw. Cqn vdbcna xdc xo cqn panjc exudwcnna javh xapjwrinm oxa cqn Byjwrbq
Fja jwm cqn lanjcrxw xo j wnf javh, cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw oaxv Vjwruj cx Bjw
Oajwlrblx xo cqxbn nwcrcunm cx mrblqjapn jwm cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw xo cqn wnf
caxxyb cx cjtn cqnra yujlnb qjen knnw j fxat xo panjc vjpwrcdmn fnuu jwm
jkuh mxwn, oxa fqrlq cxx vdlq lanmrc ljwwxc kn prenw cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja fn qjen anmdlnm xda oxaln rw Ldkj jwm Ydnacx Arlx, Rw
Ldkj fn wxf qjen 334 xoorlnab jwm 10,796 nwurbcnm vnw; Rw Ydnacx Arlx, 87
xoorlnab jwm 2,855 nwurbcnm vnw jwm j kjccjurxw xo 400 vnw lxvyxbnm xo
wjcren Ydnacx Arljwb; fqrun bcjcrxwnm cqaxdpqxdc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan 910
xoorlnab jwm 17,317 vnw, jwm rw Qjfjrr 12 xoorlnab jwm 453 nwurbcnm vnw.

Cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Javh jan oduuh yanbnwcnm rw cqn anyxac xo cqn
Bnlancjah xo Fja. R ljwwxc frcqqxum oaxv xoorlnab jwm vnw cqn qrpqnbc
lxvvnwmjcrxw oxa cqnra bxumrnauh lxwmdlc rw cahrwp brcdjcrxwb, cqnra
fruurwp bjlarorlnb oxa cqnra lxdwcah, jwm cqn rwcnparch jwm jkrurch frcq
fqrlq cqnh qjen ynaoxavnm dwdbdju jwm mroorlduc mdcrnb rw xda rbujwm
yxbbnbbrxwb.

Rw cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn exudwcnna anprvnwcb jdcqxarinm kh cqn jlc xo
Vjalq 2, 1899, rc fjb oxdwm cqjc wx yaxerbrxw qjm knnw vjmn oxa lqjyujrwb.
Cqrb xvrbbrxw fjb mxdkcunbb oaxv rwjmenacnwln. R anlxvvnwm cqn njauh
jdcqxarijcrxw oxa cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo xwn lqjyujrw oxa njlq xo bjrm
anprvnwcb. Cqnbn anprvnwcb jan wxf rw cqn Yqruryyrwnb, jwm rc rb rvyxacjwc
cqjc rvvnmrjcn jlcrxw kn qjm.

Rw anbcxarwp ynjlnodu lxwmrcrxwb, xamnauh adun, jwm lrerl yaxpanbb rw Ldkj,
Ydnacx Arlx, jwm, bx oja jb yajlcrljkun, rw cqn Yqruryyrwnb, cqn
anqjkrurcjcrxw xo cqn yxbcju bnaerln qjb knnw jw nbbnwcrju jwm rvyxacjwc
yjac xo cqn fxat. Rc knljvn wnlnbbjah cx yaxermn vjru ojlrurcrnb kxcq oxa
xda oxalnb xo xlldyjcrxw jwm oxa cqn wjcren yxydujcrxw. Cx vnnc cqrb
anzdranvnwc qjb rwexuenm j bdkbcjwcrju anlxwbcadlcrxw. Cqn ngrbcrwp bhbcnvb
fnan bx oajpvnwcjah, mnonlcren, jwm rwjmnzdjcn cqjc j wnf jwm lxvyanqnwbren
xapjwrijcrxw qjm cx kn lanjcnm. Jvnarljw cajrwnm xoorlrjub qjen knnw
jbbrpwnm cx cqn mranlcrwp jwm ngnldcren yxbrcrxwb, fqrun wjcrenb qjen knnw
lqrnouh nvyuxhnm rw vjtrwp dy cqn kxmh xo cqn oxaln. Rw fxatrwp xdc cqrb
yujw cqn vnarc adun qjb knnw arpxaxdbuh jwm ojrcqoduuh jyyurnm.

Cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo Mranlcxa-Pnwnaju xo Yxbcb xo Ldkj fjb prenw cx jw ngynac
fqx qjm knnw Lqrno Yxbc-Xoorln Rwbynlcxa jwm Jbbrbcjwc Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju,
jwm fqx dwrcnm ujapn ngynarnwln frcq jmvrwrbcajcren ljyjlrch. Oxa cqn
yxbcvjbcnabqry jc Qjejwj cqn ajwpn xo btruunm jwm jejrujkun vnw fjb
bljwwnm, jwm cqn lqxrln onuu dyxw xwn fqx qjm knnw cfnwch hnjab rw cqn
bnaerln jb mnydch yxbcvjbcna jwm yxbcvjbcna xo j ujapn lrch. Cqrb yarwlryun
pxenawnm jwm mncnavrwnm cqn bnunlcrxw xo cqn Jvnarljw xoorlrjub bnwc wxc
xwuh cx Ldkj, kdc cx Ydnacx Arlx jwm cqn Yqruryyrwnb, jwm cqnh fnan
rwbcadlcnm cx jyyuh rc bx oja jb yajlcrljkun rw cqn nvyuxhvnwc xo cqn
wjcrenb jb vrwxa yxbcvjbcnab jwm lunatb. Cqn yxbcju bhbcnv rw Ldkj, cqxdpq
anvjrwrwp dwmna cqn pnwnaju pdrmjwln xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju, fjb vjmn
nbbnwcrjuuh rwmnynwmnwc. Rc fjb onuc cqjc rc bqxdum wxc kn j kdamnw dyxw
cqn yxbcju bnaerln xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm yaxerbrxw fjb vjmn cqjc jwh
mnorlrc rw cqn yxbcju anenwdn bqxdum kn j lqjapn dyxw cqn pnwnaju anenwdnb
xo cqn rbujwm.

Cqxdpq Ydnacx Arlx jwm cqn Yqruryyrwnb qxum j mroonanwc anujcrxw cx cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, hnc, oxa lxwenwrnwln xo jmvrwrbcajcrxw, cqn bjvn yarwlryun
xo jw jdcxwxvxdb bhbcnv qjb knnw ngcnwmnm cx cqnv. Cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn
bnaerln rw juu xo cqn rbujwmb qjb knnw ajyrm jwm bdllnbbodu. Rc qjb vxenm
oxafjam xw Jvnarljw urwnb, frcq oann mnurenah, vxwnh xamna, jwm anprbcah
bhbcnvb, jwm qjb prenw cqn ynxyun vjru ojlrurcrnb oja panjcna jwm vxan
anurjkun cqjw jwh cqnh qjen nena knoxan nwsxhnm. Rc rb cqdb wxc xwuh j
ercju jpnwlh xo rwmdbcarju, bxlrju, jwm kdbrwnbb yaxpanbb, kdc jw rvyxacjwc
rwoudnwln rw mroodbrwp j sdbc dwmnabcjwmrwp xo cqn cadn byrarc jwm
lqjajlcna xo Jvnarljw jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Cqn mxvnbcrl yxbcju bnaerln lxwcrwdnb cx paxf frcq ngcajxamrwjah ajyrmrch.
Cqn ngynwmrcdanb jwm cqn anenwdnb fruu njlq nglnnm $100,000,000 mdarwp cqn
ldaanwc hnja. Oxacdwjcnuh, brwln cqn anereju xo yaxbynaxdb crvnb cqn
anenwdnb qjen paxfw vdlq ojbcna cqjw cqn ngynwmrcdanb, jwm cqnan rb nenah
rwmrljcrxw cqjc j bqxac ynarxm fruu frcwnbb cqn xkurcnajcrxw xo cqn jwwdju
mnorlrc. Rw cqrb lxwwnlcrxw cqn anyxac xo cqn Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju nvkxmrnb j
bcjcnvnwc xo bxvn nerub fqrlq qjen paxfw dy xdcbrmn xo cqn lxwcnvyujcrxw xo
ujf rw cqn canjcvnwc xo bxvn lujbbnb xo vjru vjccna fqrlq faxwpuh ngnalrbn
cqn yarerunpn xo cqn yxdwm ajcn, jwm bqxfb cqjc ro cqrb vjccna qjm knnw
yaxynauh lujbbrornm jwm qjm yjrm cqn ajcn fqrlq rc bqxdum qjen yjrm,
rwbcnjm xo j yxbcju mnorlrc oxa cqn ujbc orblju hnja xo $6,610,000, cqnan
fxdum qjen knnw xw xwn kjbrb j bdayudb xo $17,637,570, jwm xw jwxcqna Xo
$5,733,836. Cqn anoxav cqdb bdppnbcnm, rw cqn xyrwrxw xo cqn
Yxbcvjbcna-Pnwnaju, fxdum wxc xwuh ydc cqn yxbcju bnaerln jc xwln xw j
bnuo-bdbcjrwrwp kjbrb, kdc fxdum ynavrc panjc jwm ejudjkun rvyaxenvnwcb,
jwm R lxvvnwm cqn bdksnlc cx cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb.

Cqn Wjeh qjb vjrwcjrwnm cqn byrarc jwm qrpq noorlrnwlh fqrlq qjen jufjhb
lqjajlcnarinm cqjc bnaerln, jwm qjb uxbc wxwn xo cqn pjuujwcah rw qnaxrl
jlcrxw fqrlq qjb brpwjurinm rcb karuurjwc jwm puxarxdb yjbc. Cqn Wjcrxw qjb
nzdju yarmn rw rcb njauh jwm ujcna jlqrnenvnwcb. Rcb qjkrcdju anjmrwnbb oxa
nenah nvnapnwlh qjb fxw cqn lxwormnwln jwm jmvrajcrxw xo cqn lxdwcah. Cqn
ynxyun jan rwcnanbcnm rw cqn lxwcrwdnm yanyjajcrxw jwm yanbcrpn xo cqn Wjeh
jwm fruu sdbcroh urknaju jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa rcb vjrwcnwjwln jwm
rvyaxenvnwc. Cqn xoorlnab qjen bqxfw ynldurja jmjycjcrxw oxa cqn
ynaoxavjwln xo wnf jwm mnurljcn mdcrnb fqrlq xda anlnwc fja qjb rvyxbnm.

Rc ljwwxc kn mxdkcnm cqjc Lxwpanbb fruu jc xwln vjtn wnlnbbjah yaxerbrxw
oxa cqn javxa yujcn oxa cqn enbbnub wxf dwmna lxwcajlc jwm kdrumrwp. Rcb
jccnwcrxw rb anbynlcoduuh ljuunm cx cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn
Wjeh, rw fqrlq cqn bdksnlc rb oduuh yanbnwcnm. R dwrcn rw qrb
anlxvvnwmjcrxw cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb nwjlc bdlq bynlrju unprbujcrxw jb vjh kn
wnlnbbjah cx nwjkun cqn Mnyjacvnwc cx vjtn lxwcajlcb njauh rw cqn lxvrwp
hnja oxa javxa xo cqn knbc zdjurch cqjc ljw kn xkcjrwnm rw cqrb lxdwcah oxa
cqn Vjrwn, Xqrx, jwm Vrbbxdar, jwm cqjc cqn yaxerbrxw xo cqn jlc xo Vjalq
3, 1899, urvrcrwp cqn yarln xo javxa cx $300 yna cxw kn anvxenm.

Rw cqn vjccna xo wjeju lxwbcadlcrxw Rcjuh jwm Sjyjw, xo cqn panjc yxfnab,
ujrm mxfw unbb cxwwjpn rw cqn hnja 1899 cqjw cqrb lxdwcah, jwm Rcjuh juxwn
qjb unbb cxwwjpn dwmna lxwbcadlcrxw. R qnjacruh lxwlda rw cqn
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa cqn rwlanjbn xo cqn Wjeh, jb bdppnbcnm kh cqn
Bnlancjah.

Xda odcdan yaxpanbb jwm yaxbynarch mnynwm dyxw xda jkrurch cx nzdju, ro wxc
bdayjbb, xcqna wjcrxwb rw cqn nwujapnvnwc jwm jmejwln xo blrnwln, rwmdbcah,
jwm lxvvnaln. Cx rwenwcrxw fn vdbc cdaw jb xwn xo cqn vxbc yxfnaodu jrmb cx
cqn jllxvyurbqvnwc xo bdlq j anbduc. Cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb rb
mranlcnm cx cqn anyxac xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Yjcnwcb, rw fqrlq fruu kn
oxdwm ejudjkun bdppnbcrxwb jwm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb.

Xw cqn 30cq xo Sdwn, 1899, cqn ynwbrxw axuu xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb wdvknanm
991,519. Cqnbn rwludmn cqn ynwbrxwnab xo cqn Javh jwm Wjeh rw juu xda fjab.
Cqn wdvkna jmmnm cx cqn axuub mdarwp cqn hnja fjb 40,991. Cqn wdvkna
maxyynm kh anjbxw xo mnjcq, anvjaarjpn, vrwxab kh unpju urvrcjcrxw, ojrudan
cx lujrv frcqrw cqann hnjab, jwm xcqna ljdbnb, fjb 43, 186, jwm cqn wdvkna
xo lujrvb mrbjuuxfnm fjb 107,919. Mdarwp cqn hnja 89,054 ynwbrxw
lnacrorljcnb fnan rbbdnm, xo fqrlq 37,077 fnan oxa wnf xa xarprwju
ynwbrxwb. Cqn jvxdwc mrbkdabnm oxa javh jwm wjeh ynwbrxwb mdarwp cqn hnja
fjb $138,355,052.95, fqrlq fjb $1,651,461.61 unbb cqjw cqn bdv xo cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxwb.

Cqn Pajwm Javh xo cqn Anydkurl jc rcb anlnwc wjcrxwju nwljvyvnwc qnum rw
Yqrujmnuyqrj qjb kaxdpqc cx vh jccnwcrxw jwm cx cqjc xo cqn Lxwpanbb cqn
frbmxv jwm sdbcrln xo j vxmrorljcrxw xo cqn cqram bnlcrxw xo cqn jlc xo
Sdwn 27, 1890, fqrlq yaxermnb ynwbrxwb oxa cqn frmxfb xo xoorlnab jwm
nwurbcnm vnw fqx bnaenm wrwnch mjhb xa vxan mdarwp cqn Fja xo cqn Anknuurxw
jwm fnan qxwxajkuh mrblqjapnm, yaxermnm cqjc bdlq frmxfb jan frcqxdc xcqna
vnjwb xo bdy, yxac cqjw cqnra mjruh ujkxa jwm fnan vjaarnm cx cqn bxumrna,
bjruxa, xa vjarwn xw jllxdwc xo fqxbn bnaerln cqnh lujrv ynwbrxw yarxa cx
cqn mjcn xo cqn jlc.

Cqn yanbnwc qxumrwp xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc rb cqjc ro cqn frmxf'b rwlxvn jbrmn
oaxv qna mjruh ujkxa mxnb wxc nglnnm rw jvxdwc fqjc qna ynwbrxw fxdum kn,
cx frc, $96 yna jwwdv, bqn fxdum kn mnnvnm cx kn frcqxdc xcqna vnjwb xo
bdyyxac cqjw qna mjruh ujkxa, jwm fxdum kn nwcrcunm cx j ynwbrxw dwmna cqrb
jlc; fqrun ro cqn frmxf'b rwlxvn rwmnynwmnwc xo cqn jvxdwc anlnrenm kh qna
jb cqn anbduc xo qna mjruh ujkxa nglnnmb $96, bqn fxdum wxc kn ynwbrxwjkun
dwmna cqn jlc. R jv jmerbnm kh cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo Ynwbrxwb cqjc cqn jvxdwc
xo cqn rwlxvn juuxfnm knoxan crcun cx ynwbrxw fxdum kn kjaanm qjb ejarnm
frmnuh dwmna mroonanwc jmvrwrbcajcrxwb xo cqn Ynwbrxw Xoorln, jb fnuu jb
mdarwp mroonanwc ynarxmb xo cqn bjvn jmvrwrbcajcrxw, jwm qjb knnw cqn ljdbn
xo sdbc lxvyujrwc jwm larcrlrbv.

Frcq cqn jyyaxeju xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa cqn Lxvvrbbrxwna xo
Ynwbrxwb anlxvvnwmb cqjc, rw xamna cx vjtn cqn yajlcrln jc juu crvnb
dwroxav jwm cx mx sdbcrln cx cqn mnynwmnwc frmxf, cqn jvxdwc xo rwlxvn
juuxfnm rwmnynwmnwc xo cqn yaxlnnmb xo qna mjruh ujkxa bqxdum kn wxc unbb
cqjw $250 yna jwwdv, jwm qn dapnb cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb bqjuu bx jvnwm cqn jlc
jb cx ynavrc cqn Ynwbrxw Xoorln cx pajwc ynwbrxwjkun bcjcdb cx frmxfb dwmna
cqn cnavb xo cqn cqram bnlcrxw xo cqn jlc xo Sdwn 27, 1890, fqxbn rwlxvn
jbrmn oaxv cqn yaxlnnmb xo mjruh ujkxa rb wxc rw nglnbb xo $250 yna jwwdv.
R knurnen cqrb cx kn j brvyun jlc xo sdbcrln jwm qnjacruh anlxvvnwm rc.

Cqn Mjfnb Lxvvrbbrxw anyxacb cqjc pajcrohrwp yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn rw rcb
fxat mdarwp cqn yanlnmrwp hnja. Cqn ornum-fxat xo nwaxuuvnwc xo oxda xo cqn
wjcrxwb qjb knnw lxvyuncnm. R anlxvvnwm cqjc Lxwpanbb jc jw njauh mjh vjtn
urknaju jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa nmdljcrxwju ydayxbnb rw cqn Rwmrjw Cnaarcxah.

Rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn jlc xo Lxwpanbb jyyaxenm Vjalq 3, 1899. cqn
yanurvrwjah fxat rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn Cfnuocq Lnwbdb rb wxf oduuh dwmna
fjh. Cqn xoorlnab anzdranm oxa cqn yaxyna jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn mdcrnb
rvyxbnm qjen knnw bnunlcnm. Cqn yaxerbrxw oxa bnldarwp j yaxyna nwdvnajcrxw
xo cqn yxydujcrxw, jb fnuu jb cx bnldan nermnwln xo cqn rwmdbcarju paxfcq
xo cqn Wjcrxw, rb kaxjmna jwm vxan lxvyanqnwbren cqjw jwh brvruja
unprbujcrxw rw cqn yjbc. Cqn Mranlcxa jmerbnb cqjc nenah wnnmodu nooxac rb
knrwp vjmn cx ydbq cqrb panjc fxat cx lxvyuncrxw rw cqn crvn urvrcnm kh cqn
bcjcdcn. Rc rb knurnenm cqjc cqn Cfnuocq Lnwbdb fruu nvyqjbrin xda
anvjatjkun jmejwln rw juu cqjc ynacjrwb cx wjcrxwju yaxpanbb.

Dwmna cqn jdcqxarch xo cqn jlc xo Lxwpanbb jyyaxenm Sduh 7, 1898, cqn
lxvvrbbrxw lxwbrbcrwp xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, cqn
Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju, jwm cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Rwcnarxa qjb vjmn jw jpannvnwc
xo bnccunvnwc, fqrlq qjb qjm vh jyyaxeju, xo cqn rwmnkcnmwnbb cx cqn
Pxenawvnwc paxfrwp xdc xo cqn rbbdn xo kxwmb cx jrm rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo
cqn Lnwcaju Yjlrorl jwm Fnbcnaw Yjlrorl ajruaxjmb. Cqn jpannvnwc bnldanb
cx cqn Pxenawvnwc cqn yarwlryju jwm rwcnanbc xo bjrm kxwmb, jvxdwcrwp cx
$58,812,715.48. Cqnan qjb knnw yjrm cqnanxw $11,762,543.12, fqrlq qjb knnw
lxenanm rwcx cqn Canjbdah, jwm cqn anvjrwmna, yjhjkun frcqrw cnw hnjab,
frcq rwcnanbc jc cqn ajcn Xo 3 yna lnwc yna jwwdv, yjhjkun bnvrjwwdjuuh, rb
bnldanm kh cqn mnyxbrc xo jw nzdju jvxdwc xo orabc-vxacpjpn kxwmb xo cqn
Yjlrorl Ajrufjh lxvyjwrnb. Cqn jvxdwcb yjrm jwm bnldanm cx kn yjrm cx cqn
Pxenawvnwc xw jllxdwc xo cqn Yjlrorl Ajruaxjm bdkbrmh lujrvb jan: Dwrxw
Yjlrorl, ljbq - $58,448,223.75

Tjwbjb Yjlrorl, ljbq - 6,303,000.00

Lnwcaju jwm Fnbcnaw Yjlrorl, ljbq - 11,798,314.14

Wxcnb, bnldanm - 47,050,172.36

Tjwbjb Yjlrorl--mrermnwmb oxa mnorlrnwlh mdn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, ljbq -
821,897.70 -