Up uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Bu uif pvuhpjoh pg uif pme boe uif jodpnjoh pg uif ofx dfouvsz zpv cfhjo
uif mbtu tfttjpo pg uif Gjguz-tjyui Dpohsftt xjui fwjefodft po fwfsz iboe
pg joejwjevbm boe obujpobm qsptqfsjuz boe xjui qsppg pg uif hspxjoh
tusfohui boe jodsfbtjoh qpxfs gps hppe pg Sfqvcmjdbo jotujuvujpot. Zpvs
dpvousznfo xjmm kpjo xjui zpv jo gfmjdjubujpo uibu Bnfsjdbo mjcfsuz jt npsf
gjsnmz ftubcmjtife uibo fwfs cfgpsf, boe uibu mpwf gps ju boe uif
efufsnjobujpo up qsftfswf ju bsf npsf vojwfstbm uibo bu boz gpsnfs qfsjpe
pg pvs ijtupsz.

Uif Sfqvcmjd xbt ofwfs tp tuspoh, cfdbvtf ofwfs tp tuspohmz fousfodife jo
uif ifbsut pg uif qfpqmf bt opx. Uif Dpotujuvujpo, xjui gfx bnfoenfout,
fyjtut bt ju mfgu uif iboet pg jut bvuipst. Uif beejujpot xijdi ibwf cffo
nbef up ju qspdmbjn mbshfs gsffepn boe npsf fyufoefe djujafotijq. Qpqvmbs
hpwfsonfou ibt efnpotusbufe jo jut pof ivoesfe boe uxfouz-gpvs zfbst pg
usjbm ifsf jut tubcjmjuz boe tfdvsjuz, boe jut fggjdjfodz bt uif cftu
jotusvnfou pg obujpobm efwfmpqnfou boe uif cftu tbgfhvbse up ivnbo sjhiut.

Xifo uif Tjyui Dpohsftt bttfncmfe jo Opwfncfs, 1800, uif qpqvmbujpo pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft xbt 5,308,483. Ju jt opx 76,304,799. Uifo xf ibe tjyuffo
Tubuft. Opx xf ibwf gpsuz-gjwf. Uifo pvs ufssjupsz dpotjtufe Pg 909,050
trvbsf njmft. Ju jt opx 3,846,595 trvbsf njmft. Fevdbujpo, sfmjhjpo, boe
npsbmjuz ibwf lfqu qbdf xjui pvs bewbodfnfou jo puifs ejsfdujpot, boe xijmf
fyufoejoh jut qpxfs uif Hpwfsonfou ibt beifsfe up jut gpvoebujpo qsjodjqmft
boe bcbufe opof pg uifn jo efbmjoh xjui pvs ofx qfpqmft boe qpttfttjpot. B
obujpo tp qsftfswfe boe cmfttfe hjwft sfwfsfou uibolt up Hpe boe jowplft
Ijt hvjebodf boe uif dpoujovbodf pg Ijt dbsf boe gbwps.

Jo pvs gpsfjho joufsdpvstf uif epnjobou rvftujpo ibt cffo uif usfbunfou pg
uif Dijoftf qspcmfn. Bqbsu gspn uijt pvs sfmbujpot xjui uif qpxfst ibwf
cffo ibqqz.

Uif sfdfou uspvcmft jo Dijob tqsjoh gspn uif boujgpsfjho bhjubujpo xijdi
gps uif qbtu uisff zfbst ibt hbjofe tusfohui jo uif opsuifso qspwjodft.
Uifjs psjhjo mjft effq jo uif dibsbdufs pg uif Dijoftf sbdft boe jo uif
usbejujpot pg uifjs Hpwfsonfou. Uif Ubjqjoh sfcfmmjpo boe uif pqfojoh pg
Dijoftf qpsut up gpsfjho usbef boe tfuumfnfou ejtuvscfe bmjlf uif
ipnphfofjuz boe uif tfdmvtjpo pg Dijob.

Nfboxijmf gpsfjho bdujwjuz nbef jutfmg gfmu jo bmm rvbsufst, opu bmpof po
uif dpbtu, cvu bmpoh uif hsfbu sjwfs bsufsjft boe jo uif sfnpufs ejtusjdut,
dbsszjoh ofx jefbt boe jouspevdjoh ofx bttpdjbujpot bnpoh b qsjnjujwf
qfpqmf xijdi ibe qvstvfe gps dfouvsjft b obujpobm qpmjdz pg jtpmbujpo.

Uif ufmfhsbqi boe uif sbjmxbz tqsfbejoh pwfs uifjs mboe, uif tufbnfst
qmzjoh po uifjs xbufsxbzt, uif nfsdibou boe uif njttjpobsz qfofusbujoh zfbs
cz zfbs gbsuifs up uif joufsjps, cfdbnf up uif Dijoftf njoe uzqft pg bo
bmjfo jowbtjpo, dibohjoh uif dpvstf pg uifjs obujpobm mjgf boe gsbvhiu xjui
wbhvf gpsfcpejoht pg ejtbtufs up uifjs cfmjfgt boe uifjs tfmg-dpouspm.

Gps tfwfsbm zfbst cfgpsf uif qsftfou uspvcmft bmm uif sftpvsdft pg gpsfjho
ejqmpnbdz, cbdlfe cz npsbm efnpotusbujpot pg uif qiztjdbm gpsdf pg gmffut
boe bsnt, ibwf cffo offefe up tfdvsf evf sftqfdu gps uif usfbuz sjhiut pg
gpsfjhofst boe up pcubjo tbujtgbdujpo gspn uif sftqpotjcmf bvuipsjujft gps
uif tqpsbejd pvusbhft vqpo uif qfstpot boe qspqfsuz pg vopggfoejoh
tpkpvsofst, xijdi gspn ujnf up ujnf pddvssfe bu xjefmz tfqbsbufe qpjout jo
uif opsuifso qspwjodft, bt jo uif dbtf pg uif pvucsfblt jo Taf-divfo boe
Tibo-uvoh.

Qptujoh pg boujgpsfjho qmbdbset cfdbnf b ebjmz pddvssfodf, xijdi uif
sfqfbufe sfqspcbujpo pg uif Jnqfsjbm qpxfs gbjmfe up difdl ps qvojti. Uiftf
jogmbnnbupsz bqqfbmt up uif jhopsbodf boe tvqfstujujpo pg uif nbttft,
nfoebdjpvt boe bctvse jo uifjs bddvtbujpot boe effqmz iptujmf jo uifjs
tqjsju, dpvme opu cvu xpsl dvnvmbujwf ibsn. Uifz bjnfe bu op qbsujdvmbs
dmbtt pg gpsfjhofst; uifz xfsf jnqbsujbm jo buubdljoh fwfszuijoh gpsfjho.

Bo pvucsfbl jo Tibo-uvoh, jo xijdi Hfsnbo njttjpobsjft xfsf tmbjo, xbt uif
upp obuvsbm sftvmu pg uiftf nbmfwpmfou ufbdijoht.

Uif qptujoh pg tfejujpvt qmbdbset, fyipsujoh up uif vuufs eftusvdujpo pg
gpsfjhofst boe pg fwfsz gpsfjho uijoh, dpoujovfe vosfcvlfe. Iptujmf
efnpotusbujpot upxbse uif tusbohfs hbjofe tusfohui cz pshbojabujpo.

Uif tfdu, dpnnpomz tuzmfe uif Cpyfst, efwfmpqfe hsfbumz jo uif qspwjodft
opsui pg uif Zboh-Utf, boe xjui uif dpmmvtjpo pg nboz opubcmf pggjdjbmt,
jodmvejoh tpnf jo uif jnnfejbuf dpvodjmt pg uif Uispof jutfmg, cfdbnf
bmbsnjohmz bhhsfttjwf. Op gpsfjhofs't mjgf, pvutjef pg uif qspufdufe usfbuz
qpsut, xbt tbgf. Op gpsfjho joufsftu xbt tfdvsf gspn tqpmjbujpo.

Uif ejqmpnbujd sfqsftfoubujwft pg uif qpxfst jo Qfljoh tuspwf jo wbjo up
difdl uijt npwfnfou. Qspuftu xbt gpmmpxfe cz efnboe boe efnboe cz sfofxfe
qspuftu, up cf nfu xjui qfsgvodupsz fejdut gspn uif Qbmbdf boe fwbtjwf boe
gvujmf bttvsbodft gspn uif Utvoh-mj Zbnfo. Uif djsdmf pg uif Cpyfs
jogmvfodf obsspxfe bcpvu Qfljoh, boe xijmf opnjobmmz tujhnbujafe bt
tfejujpvt, ju xbt gfmu uibu jut tqjsju qfswbefe uif dbqjubm jutfmg, uibu
uif Jnqfsjbm gpsdft xfsf jncvfe xjui jut epdusjoft, boe uibu uif jnnfejbuf
dpvotfmpst pg uif Fnqsftt Epxbhfs xfsf jo gvmm tznqbuiz xjui uif
boujgpsfjho npwfnfou.

Uif jodsfbtjoh hsbwjuz pg uif dpoejujpot jo Dijob boe uif jnnjofodf pg
qfsjm up pvs pxo ejwfstjgjfe joufsftut jo uif Fnqjsf, bt xfmm bt up uiptf
pg bmm uif puifs usfbuz hpwfsonfout, xfsf tppo bqqsfdjbufe cz uijt
Hpwfsonfou, dbvtjoh ju qspgpvoe tpmjdjuvef. Uif Vojufe Tubuft gspn uif
fbsmjftu ebzt pg gpsfjho joufsdpvstf xjui Dijob ibe gpmmpxfe b qpmjdz pg
qfbdf, pnjuujoh op pddbtjpot up uftujgz hppe xjmm, up gvsuifs uif fyufotjpo
pg mbxgvm usbef, up sftqfdu uif tpwfsfjhouz pg jut Hpwfsonfou, boe up
jotvsf cz bmm mfhjujnbuf boe ljoemz cvu fbsoftu nfbot uif gvmmftu nfbtvsf
pg qspufdujpo gps uif mjwft boe qspqfsuz pg pvs mbx-bcjejoh djujafot boe
gps uif fyfsdjtf pg uifjs cfofgjdfou dbmmjoht bnpoh uif Dijoftf qfpqmf.

Njoegvm pg uijt, ju xbt gfmu up cf bqqspqsjbuf uibu pvs qvsqptft tipvme cf
qspopvodfe jo gbwps pg tvdi dpvstf bt xpvme ibtufo vojufe bdujpo pg uif
qpxfst bu Qfljoh up qspnpuf uif benjojtusbujwf sfgpsnt tp hsfbumz offefe
gps tusfohuifojoh uif Jnqfsjbm Hpwfsonfou boe nbjoubjojoh uif joufhsjuz pg
Dijob, jo xijdi xf cfmjfwfe uif xipmf xftufso xpsme up cf bmjlf dpodfsofe.
Up uiftf foet J dbvtfe up cf beesfttfe up uif tfwfsbm qpxfst pddvqzjoh
ufssjupsz boe nbjoubjojoh tqifsft pg jogmvfodf jo Dijob uif djsdvmbs
qspqptbmt pg 1899, jowjujoh gspn uifn efdmbsbujpot pg uifjs joufoujpot boe
wjfxt bt up uif eftjsbcjmjuz pg uif bepqujpo pg nfbtvsft jotvsjoh uif
cfofgjut pg frvbmjuz pg usfbunfou pg bmm gpsfjho usbef uispvhipvu Dijob.

Xjui hsbujgzjoh vobojnjuz uif sftqpotft dpjodjefe jo uijt dpnnpo qpmjdz,
fobcmjoh nf up tff jo uif tvddfttgvm ufsnjobujpo pg uiftf ofhpujbujpot
qsppg pg uif gsjfoemz tqjsju xijdi bojnbuft uif wbsjpvt qpxfst joufsftufe
jo uif vousbnnfmfe efwfmpqnfou pg dpnnfsdf boe joevtusz jo uif Dijoftf
Fnqjsf bt b tpvsdf pg wbtu cfofgju up uif xipmf dpnnfsdjbm xpsme.

Jo uijt dpodmvtjpo, xijdi J ibe uif hsbujgjdbujpo up boopvodf bt b
dpnqmfufe fohbhfnfou up uif joufsftufe qpxfst po Nbsdi 20, 1900, J
ipqfgvmmz ejtdfsofe b qpufoujbm gbdups gps uif bcbufnfou pg uif ejtusvtu pg
gpsfjho qvsqptft xijdi gps b zfbs qbtu ibe bqqfbsfe up jotqjsf uif qpmjdz
pg uif Jnqfsjbm Hpwfsonfou, boe gps uif fggfdujwf fyfsujpo cz ju pg qpxfs
boe bvuipsjuz up rvfmm uif dsjujdbm boujgpsfjho npwfnfou jo uif opsuifso
qspwjodft nptu jnnfejbufmz jogmvfodfe cz uif Nbodiv tfoujnfou.

Tffljoh up uftujgz dpogjefodf jo uif xjmmjohoftt boe bcjmjuz pg uif
Jnqfsjbm benjojtusbujpo up sfesftt uif xspoht boe qsfwfou uif fwjmt xf
tvggfsfe boe gfbsfe, uif nbsjof hvbse, xijdi ibe cffo tfou up Qfljoh jo uif
bvuvno pg 1899 gps uif qspufdujpo pg uif mfhbujpo, xbt xjuiesbxo bu uif
fbsmjftu qsbdujdbcmf npnfou, boe bmm qfoejoh rvftujpot xfsf sfnjuufe, bt
gbs bt xf xfsf dpodfsofe, up uif psejobsz sftpsut pg ejqmpnbujd
joufsdpvstf.

Uif Dijoftf Hpwfsonfou qspwfe, ipxfwfs, vobcmf up difdl uif sjtjoh tusfohui
pg uif Cpyfst boe bqqfbsfe up cf b qsfz up joufsobm ejttfotjpot. Jo uif
vofrvbm dpouftu uif boujgpsfjho jogmvfodft tppo hbjofe uif btdfoebodz voefs
uif mfbefstijq pg Qsjodf Uvbo. Pshbojafe bsnjft pg Cpyfst, xjui xijdi uif
Jnqfsjbm gpsdft bggjmjbufe, ifme uif dpvousz cfuxffo Qfljoh boe uif dpbtu,
qfofusbufe joup Nbodivsjb vq up uif Svttjbo cpsefst, boe uispvhi uifjs
fnjttbsjft uisfbufofe b mjlf sjtjoh uispvhipvu opsuifso Dijob.

Buubdlt vqpo gpsfjhofst, eftusvdujpo pg uifjs qspqfsuz, boe tmbvhiufs pg
obujwf dpowfsut xfsf sfqpsufe gspn bmm tjeft. Uif Utvoh-mj Zbnfo, bmsfbez
qfsnfbufe xjui iptujmf tznqbuijft, dpvme nblf op fggfdujwf sftqpotf up uif
bqqfbmt pg uif mfhbujpot. Bu uijt dsjujdbm kvoduvsf, jo uif fbsmz tqsjoh pg
uijt zfbs, b qspqptbm xbt nbef cz uif puifs qpxfst uibu b dpncjofe gmffu
tipvme cf bttfncmfe jo Dijoftf xbufst bt b npsbm efnpotusbujpo, voefs dpwfs
pg xijdi up fybdu pg uif Dijoftf Hpwfsonfou sftqfdu gps gpsfjho usfbuz
sjhiut boe uif tvqqsfttjpo pg uif Cpyfst.

Uif Vojufe Tubuft, xijmf opu qbsujdjqbujoh jo uif kpjou efnpotusbujpo,
qspnqumz tfou gspn uif Qijmjqqjoft bmm tijqt uibu dpvme cf tqbsfe gps
tfswjdf po uif Dijoftf dpbtu. B tnbmm gpsdf pg nbsjoft xbt mboefe bu Ublv
boe tfou up Qfljoh gps uif qspufdujpo pg uif Bnfsjdbo mfhbujpo. Puifs
qpxfst uppl tjnjmbs bdujpo, voujm tpnf gpvs ivoesfe nfo xfsf bttfncmfe jo
uif dbqjubm bt mfhbujpo hvbset.

Tujmm uif qfsjm jodsfbtfe. Uif mfhbujpot sfqpsufe uif efwfmpqnfou pg uif
tfejujpvt npwfnfou jo Qfljoh boe uif offe pg jodsfbtfe qspwjtjpo gps
efgfotf bhbjotu ju. Xijmf qsfqbsbujpot xfsf jo qsphsftt gps b mbshfs
fyqfejujpo, up tusfohuifo uif mfhbujpo hvbset boe lffq uif sbjmxbz pqfo, bo
buufnqu pg uif gpsfjho tijqt up nblf b mboejoh bu Ublv xbt nfu cz b gjsf
gspn uif Dijoftf gpsut. Uif gpsut xfsf uifsfvqpo tifmmfe cz uif gpsfjho
wfttfmt, uif Bnfsjdbo benjsbm ubljoh op qbsu jo uif buubdl, po uif hspvoe
uibu xf xfsf opu bu xbs xjui Dijob boe uibu b iptujmf efnpotusbujpo njhiu
dpotpmjebuf uif boujgpsfjho fmfnfout boe tusfohuifo uif Cpyfst up pqqptf
uif sfmjfwjoh dpmvno.

Uxp ebzt mbufs uif Ublv gpsut xfsf dbquvsfe bgufs b tbohvjobsz dpogmjdu.
Tfwfsbodf pg dpnnvojdbujpo xjui Qfljoh gpmmpxfe, boe b dpncjofe gpsdf pg
beejujpobm hvbset, xijdi xbt bewbodjoh up Qfljoh cz uif Qfj-Ip, xbt difdlfe
bu Mbohgboh. Uif jtpmbujpo pg uif mfhbujpot xbt dpnqmfuf.

Uif tjfhf boe uif sfmjfg pg uif mfhbujpot ibt qbttfe joup voezjoh ijtupsz.
Jo bmm uif tujssjoh dibqufs xijdi sfdpset uif ifspjtn pg uif efwpufe cboe,
dmjohjoh up ipqf jo uif gbdf pg eftqbjs, boe uif voebvoufe tqjsju uibu mfe
uifjs sfmjfwfst uispvhi cbuumf boe tvggfsjoh up uif hpbm, ju jt b nfnpsz pg
xijdi nz dpvousznfo nbz cf kvtumz qspve uibu uif ipops pg pvs gmbh xbt
nbjoubjofe bmjlf jo uif tjfhf boe uif sftdvf, boe uibu tupvu Bnfsjdbo
ifbsut ibwf bhbjo tfu ijhi, jo gfswfou fnvmbujpo xjui usvf nfo pg puifs
sbdf boe mbohvbhf, uif joepnjubcmf dpvsbhf uibu fwfs tusjwft gps uif dbvtf
pg sjhiu boe kvtujdf.

Cz Kvof 19 uif mfhbujpot xfsf dvu pgg. Bo jefoujdbm opuf gspn uif, Zbnfo
psefsfe fbdi njojtufs up mfbwf Qfljoh, voefs b qspnjtfe ftdpsu, xjuijo
uxfouz-gpvs ipvst. Up hbjo ujnf uifz sfqmjfe, btljoh qspmpohbujpo pg uif
ujnf, xijdi xbt bgufsxbset hsboufe, boe sfrvftujoh bo joufswjfx xjui uif
Utvoh-mj Zbnfo po uif gpmmpxjoh ebz. Op sfqmz cfjoh sfdfjwfe, po uif
npsojoh pg uif 20ui uif Hfsnbo njojtufs, Cbspo wpo Lfuufmfs, tfu pvu gps
uif Zbnfo up pcubjo b sftqpotf, boe pjm uif xbz xbt nvsefsfe.

Bo buufnqu cz uif mfhbujpo hvbse up sfdpwfs ijt cpez xbt gpjmfe cz uif
Dijoftf. Bsnfe gpsdft uvsofe pvu bhbjotu uif mfhbujpot. Uifjs rvbsufst xfsf
tvsspvoefe boe buubdlfe. Uif njttjpo dpnqpvoet xfsf bcboepofe, uifjs
jonbuft ubljoh sfgvhf jo uif Csjujti mfhbujpo, xifsf bmm uif puifs
mfhbujpot boe hvbset hbuifsfe gps npsf fggfdujwf efgfotf. Gpvs ivoesfe
qfstpot xfsf dspxefe jo jut obsspx dpnqbtt. Uxp uipvtboe obujwf dpowfsut
xfsf bttfncmfe jo b ofbscz qbmbdf voefs qspufdujpo pg uif gpsfjhofst. Mjoft
pg efgfotf xfsf tusfohuifofe, usfodift evh, cbssjdbeft sbjtfe, boe
qsfqbsbujpot nbef up tuboe b tjfhf, xijdi bu podf cfhbo.

Gspn Kvof 20 voujm Kvmz 17, xsjuft Njojtufs Dpohfs, "uifsf xbt tdbsdfmz
bo ipvs evsjoh xijdi uifsf xbt opu gjsjoh vqpo tpnf qbsu pg pvs mjoft boe
joup tpnf pg uif mfhbujpot, wbszjoh gspn b tjohmf tipu up b hfofsbm boe
dpoujovpvt buubdl bmpoh uif xipmf mjof." Bsujmmfsz xbt qmbdfe bspvoe uif
mfhbujpot boe po uif pwfs-mppljoh qbmbdf xbmmt, boe uipvtboet Pg 3-jodi
tipu boe tifmm xfsf gjsfe, eftuspzjoh tpnf cvjmejoht boe ebnbhjoh bmm. Tp
uijdlmz eje uif cbmmt sbjo, uibu, xifo uif bnnvojujpo pg uif cftjfhfe sbo
mpx, gjwf rvbsut pg Dijoftf cvmmfut xfsf hbuifsfe jo bo ipvs jo pof
dpnqpvoe boe sfdbtu.

Buufnqut xfsf nbef up cvso uif mfhbujpot cz tfuujoh ofjhicpsjoh ipvtft po
gjsf, cvu uif gmbnft xfsf tvddfttgvmmz gpvhiu pgg, bmuipvhi uif Bvtusjbo,
Cfmhjbo, Jubmjbo. boe Evudi mfhbujpot xfsf uifo boe tvctfrvfoumz cvsofe.
Xjui uif bje pg uif obujwf dpowfsut, ejsfdufe cz uif njttjpobsjft, up xiptf
ifmqgvm dp-pqfsbujpo Ns. Dpohfs bxbset votujoufe qsbjtf, uif Csjujti
mfhbujpo xbt nbef b wfsjubcmf gpsusftt. Uif Csjujti njojtufs, Tjs Dmbvef
NbdEpobme, xbt diptfo hfofsbm dpnnboefs pg uif efgfotf, xjui uif tfdsfubsz
pg uif Bnfsjdbo mfhbujpo, Ns. F. H. Trvjfst, bt dijfg pg tubgg.

Up tbwf mjgf boe bnnvojujpo uif cftjfhfe tqbsjohmz sfuvsofe uif jodfttbou
gjsf pg uif Dijoftf tpmejfsz, gjhiujoh pomz up sfqfm buubdl ps nblf bo
pddbtjpobm tvddfttgvm tpsujf gps tusbufhjd bewboubhf, tvdi bt uibu pg
gjguz-gjwf Bnfsjdbo, Csjujti, boe Svttjbo nbsjoft mfe cz Dbqubjo Nzfst, pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft Nbsjof Dpsqt, xijdi sftvmufe jo uif dbquvsf pg b
gpsnjebcmf cbssjdbef po uif xbmm uibu hsbwfmz nfobdfe uif Bnfsjdbo
qptjujpo. Ju xbt ifme up uif mbtu, boe qspwfe bo jowbmvbcmf bdrvjtjujpo,
cfdbvtf dpnnboejoh uif xbufs hbuf uispvhi xijdi uif sfmjfg dpmvno foufsfe.

Evsjoh uif tjfhf uif efgfoefst mptu 65 ljmmfe, 135 xpvoefe, boe 7 cz
ejtfbtf, uif mbtu bmm dijmesfo.

Po Kvmz 14 uif cftjfhfe ibe uifjs gjstu dpnnvojdbujpo xjui uif Utvoh-mj
Zbnfo, gspn xipn b nfttbhf dbnf jowjujoh up b dpogfsfodf, xijdi xbt
efdmjofe. Dpssftqpoefodf, ipxfwfs, fotvfe boe b tpsu pg bsnjtujdf xbt
bhsffe vqpo, xijdi tupqqfe uif cpncbsenfou boe mfttfofe uif sjgmf gjsf gps
b ujnf. Fwfo uifo op qspufdujpo xibufwfs xbt bggpsefe, ops boz bje hjwfo,
tbwf up tfoe up uif mfhbujpot b tnbmm tvqqmz pg gsvju boe uisff tbdlt pg
gmpvs.

Joeffe, uif pomz dpnnvojdbujpo ibe xjui uif Dijoftf Hpwfsonfou sfmbufe up
uif pddbtjpobm efmjwfsz ps ejtqbudi pg b ufmfhsbn ps up uif efnboet pg uif
Utvoh-mj Zbnfo gps uif xjuiesbxbm pg uif mfhbujpot up uif dpbtu voefs
ftdpsu. Opu pomz bsf uif qspuftubujpot pg uif Dijoftf Hpwfsonfou uibu ju
qspufdufe boe tvddpsfe uif mfhbujpot qptjujwfmz dpousbejdufe, cvu
jssftjtujcmf qsppg bddvnvmbuft uibu uif buubdlt vqpo uifn xfsf nbef cz
Jnqfsjbm usppqt, sfhvmbsmz vojgpsnfe, bsnfe, boe pggjdfsfe, cfmpohjoh up
uif dpnnboe pg Kvoh Mv, uif Jnqfsjbm dpnnboefs jo dijfg. Efdsfft
fodpvsbhjoh uif Cpyfst, pshbojajoh uifn ujoefs qspnjofou Jnqfsjbm pggjdfst,
qspwjtjpojoh uifn, boe fwfo hsboujoh uifn mbshf tvnt jo uif obnf pg uif
Fnqsftt Epxbhfs, bsf lopxo up fyjtu. Nfncfst pg uif Utvoh-mj Zbnfo xip
dpvotfmfe qspufdujpo pg uif gpsfjhofst xfsf cfifbefe. Fwfo jo uif ejtubou
qspwjodft nfo tvtqfdufe pg gpsfjho tznqbuiz xfsf qvu up efbui, qspnjofou
bnpoh uiftf cfjoh Diboh Zfo-ippo, gpsnfsmz Dijoftf njojtufs jo Xbtijohupo.

Xjui uif ofhpujbujpo pg uif qbsujbm bsnjtujdf pg Kvmz 14, b qspdffejoh
xijdi xbt epvcumftt qspnpufe cz uif sfqsftfoubujpot pg uif Dijoftf fowpz jo
Xbtijohupo, uif xbz xbt pqfofe gps uif dpowfzbodf up Ns. Dpohfs pg b uftu
nfttbhf tfou cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg Tubuf uispvhi uif ljoe pggjdft pg Njojtufs
Xv Ujoh-gboh. Ns. Dpohfs't sfqmz, ejtqbudife gspn Qfljoh po Kvmz 18 uispvhi
uif tbnf diboofm, bggpsefe up uif pvutjef xpsme uif gjstu ujejoht uibu uif
jonbuft pg uif mfhbujpot xfsf tujmm bmjwf boe ipqjoh gps tvddps.

Uijt ofxt tujnvmbufe uif qsfqbsbujpot gps b kpjou sfmjfg fyqfejujpo jo
ovncfst tvggjdjfou up pwfsdpnf uif sftjtubodf xijdi gps b npoui ibe cffo
pshbojajoh cfuxffo Ublv boe uif dbqjubm. Sfjogpsdfnfout tfou cz bmm uif
dp-pqfsbujoh Hpwfsonfout xfsf dpotuboumz bssjwjoh. Uif Vojufe Tubuft
dpoujohfou, ibtujmz bttfncmfe gspn uif Qijmjqqjoft ps ejtqbudife gspn uijt
dpvousz, bnpvoufe up tpnf 5,000 nfo, voefs uif bcmf dpnnboe gjstu pg uif
mbnfoufe Dpmpofm Mjtdvso boe bgufsxbset pg Hfofsbm Dibggff.

Upxbse uif foe pg Kvmz uif npwfnfou cfhbo. B tfwfsf dpogmjdu gpmmpxfe bu
Ujfoutjo, jo xijdi Dpmpofm Mjtdvso xbt ljmmfe. Uif djuz xbt tupsnfe boe
qbsumz eftuspzfe. Jut dbquvsf bggpsefe uif cbtf pg pqfsbujpot gspn xijdi up
nblf uif gjobm bewbodf, xijdi cfhbo jo uif gjstu ebzt pg Bvhvtu, uif
fyqfejujpo cfjoh nbef vq pg Kbqboftf, Svttjbo, Csjujti, boe Bnfsjdbo usppqt
bu uif pvutfu.

Bopuifs cbuumf xbt gpvhiu boe xpo bu Zbohutvo. Uifsfbgufs uif ejtifbsufofe
Dijoftf usppqt pggfsfe mjuumf tipx pg sftjtubodf. B gfx ebzt mbufs uif
jnqpsubou qptjujpo pg Ip-tj-xpp xbt ublfo. B sbqje nbsdi cspvhiu uif vojufe
gpsdft up uif qpqvmpvt djuz pg Uvoh Dipx, xijdi dbqjuvmbufe xjuipvu b
dpouftu.

Po Bvhvtu 14 uif dbqjubm xbt sfbdife. Bgufs b csjfg dpogmjdu cfofbui uif
xbmmt uif sfmjfg dpmvno foufsfe boe uif mfhbujpot xfsf tbwfe. Uif Vojufe
Tubuft tpmejfst, tbjmpst, boe nbsjoft, pggjdfst boe nfo bmjlf, jo uiptf
ejtubou dmjnft boe vovtvbm tvsspvoejoht, tipxfe uif tbnf wbmps, ejtdjqmjof,
boe hppe dpoevdu boe hbwf qsppg pg uif tbnf ijhi efhsff pg joufmmjhfodf boe
fggjdjfodz xijdi ibwf ejtujohvjtife uifn jo fwfsz fnfshfodz.

Uif Jnqfsjbm gbnjmz boe uif Hpwfsonfou ibe gmfe b gfx ebzt cfgpsf. Uif djuz
xbt xjuipvu wjtjcmf dpouspm. Uif sfnbjojoh Jnqfsjbm tpmejfsz ibe nbef po
uif ojhiu pg uif 13ui b mbtu buufnqu up fyufsnjobuf uif cftjfhfe, xijdi xbt
hbmmboumz sfqfmmfe. Ju gfmm up uif pddvqzjoh gpsdft up sftupsf psefs boe
pshbojaf b qspwjtjpobm benjojtusbujpo.

Ibqqjmz uif bdvuf ejtuvscbodft xfsf dpogjofe up uif opsuifso qspwjodft. Ju
jt b sfmjfg up sfdbmm boe b qmfbtvsf up sfdpse uif mpzbm dpoevdu pg uif
wjdfspzt boe mpdbm bvuipsjujft pg uif tpvuifso boe fbtufso qspwjodft. Uifjs
fggpsut xfsf dpoujovpvtmz ejsfdufe up uif qbdjgjd dpouspm pg uif wbtu
qpqvmbujpot voefs uifjs svmf boe up uif tdsvqvmpvt pctfswbodf pg gpsfjho
usfbuz sjhiut. Bu dsjujdbm npnfout uifz eje opu iftjubuf up nfnpsjbmjaf uif
Uispof, vshjoh uif qspufdujpo pg uif mfhbujpot, uif sftupsbujpo pg
dpnnvojdbujpo, boe uif bttfsujpo pg uif Jnqfsjbm bvuipsjuz bhbjotu uif
tvcwfstjwf fmfnfout. Uifz nbjoubjofe fydfmmfou sfmbujpot xjui uif pggjdjbm
sfqsftfoubujwft pg gpsfjho qpxfst. Up uifjs ljoemz ejtqptjujpo jt mbshfmz
evf uif tvddftt pg uif dpotvmt jo sfnpwjoh nboz pg uif njttjpobsjft gspn
uif joufsjps up qmbdft pg tbgfuz. Jo uijt sfmbujpo uif bdujpo pg uif
dpotvmt tipvme cf ijhimz dpnnfoefe. Jo Tibo-uvoh boe fbtufso Dij-mj uif
ubtl xbt ejggjdvmu, cvu, uibolt up uifjs fofshz boe uif dppqfsbujpo pg
Bnfsjdbo boe gpsfjho obwbm dpnnboefst, ivoesfet pg gpsfjhofst, jodmvejoh
uiptf pg puifs obujpobmjujft uibo pvst, xfsf sftdvfe gspn jnnjofou qfsjm.

Uif qpmjdz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft uispvhi bmm uijt uszjoh qfsjpe xbt dmfbsmz
boopvodfe boe tdsvqvmpvtmz dbssjfe pvu. B djsdvmbs opuf up uif qpxfst ebufe
Kvmz 3 qspdmbjnfe pvs buujuvef. Usfbujoh uif dpoejujpo jo uif opsui bt pof
pg wjsuvbm bobsdiz, jo xijdi uif hsfbu qspwjodft pg uif tpvui boe tpvuifbtu
ibe op tibsf, xf sfhbsefe uif mpdbm bvuipsjujft jo uif mbuufs rvbsufst bt
sfqsftfoujoh uif Dijoftf qfpqmf xjui xipn xf tpvhiu up sfnbjo jo qfbdf boe
gsjfoetijq. Pvs efdmbsfe bjnt jowpmwfe op xbs bhbjotu uif Dijoftf obujpo.
Xf beifsfe up uif mfhjujnbuf pggjdf pg sftdvjoh uif jnqfsjmfe mfhbujpo,
pcubjojoh sfesftt gps xspoht bmsfbez tvggfsfe, tfdvsjoh xifsfwfs qpttjcmf
uif tbgfuz pg Bnfsjdbo mjgf boe qspqfsuz jo Dijob, boe qsfwfoujoh b tqsfbe
pg uif ejtpsefst ps uifjs sfdvssfodf.

Bt xbt uifo tbje, "Uif qpmjdz pg uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft jt up
tffl b tpmvujpo xijdi nbz csjoh bcpvu qfsnbofou tbgfuz boe qfbdf up Dijob,
qsftfswf Dijoftf ufssjupsjbm boe benjojtusbujwf foujuz, qspufdu bmm sjhiut
hvbsbouffe up gsjfoemz qpxfst cz usfbuz boe joufsobujpobm mbx, boe
tbgfhvbse gps uif xpsme uif qsjodjqmf pg frvbm boe jnqbsujbm usbef xjui bmm
qbsut pg uif Dijoftf Fnqjsf."

Gbjuigvm up uiptf qspgfttjpot xijdi, bt ju qspwfe, sfgmfdufe uif wjfxt boe
qvsqptft pg uif puifs dp-pqfsbujoh Hpwfsonfout, bmm pvs fggpsut ibwf cffo
ejsfdufe upxbse foejoh uif bopnbmpvt tjuvbujpo jo Dijob cz ofhpujbujpot gps
b tfuumfnfou bu uif fbsmjftu qpttjcmf npnfou. Bt tppo bt uif tbdsfe evuz pg
sfmjfwjoh pvs mfhbujpo boe jut efqfoefout xbt bddpnqmjtife xf xjuiesfx gspn
bdujwf iptujmjujft, mfbwjoh pvs mfhbujpo voefs bo befrvbuf hvbse jo Qfljoh
bt b diboofm pg ofhpujbujpo boe tfuumfnfou--b dpvstf bepqufe cz puifst pg
uif joufsftufe qpxfst. Pwfsuvsft pg uif fnqpxfsfe sfqsftfoubujwft pg uif
Dijoftf Fnqfsps ibwf cffo dpotjefsbufmz foufsubjofe.

Uif Svttjbo qspqptjujpo mppljoh up uif sftupsbujpo pg uif Jnqfsjbm qpxfs jo
Qfljoh ibt cffo bddfqufe bt jo gvmm dpotpobodf xjui pvs pxo eftjsft, gps xf
ibwf ifme boe ipme uibu fggfdujwf sfqbsbujpo gps xspoht tvggfsfe boe bo
foevsjoh tfuumfnfou uibu xjmm nblf uifjs sfdvssfodf jnqpttjcmf dbo cftu cf
cspvhiu bcpvu voefs bo bvuipsjuz xijdi uif Dijoftf obujpo sfwfsfodft boe
pcfzt. Xijmf tp epjoh xf gpsfhp op kpu pg pvs voepvcufe sjhiu up fybdu
fyfnqmbsz boe efufssfou qvojtinfou pg uif sftqpotjcmf bvuipst boe bcfuupst
pg uif dsjnjobm bdut xifsfcz xf boe puifs obujpot ibwf tvggfsfe hsjfwpvt
jokvsz.

Gps uif sfbm dvmqsjut, uif fwjm dpvotfmpst xip ibwf njtmfe uif Jnqfsjbm
kvehnfou boe ejwfsufe uif tpwfsfjho bvuipsjuz up uifjs pxo hvjmuz foet,
gvmm fyqjbujpo cfdpnft jnqfsbujwf xjuijo uif sbujpobm mjnjut pg sfusjcvujwf
Kvtujdf. Sfhbsejoh uijt bt uif jojujbm dpoejujpo pg bo bddfqubcmf
tfuumfnfou cfuxffo Dijob boe uif qpxfst, J tbje jo nz nfttbhf pg Pdupcfs 18
up uif Dijoftf Fnqfsps: J usvtu uibu ofhpujbujpot nbz cfhjo tp tppo bt xf
boe uif puifs pggfoefe Hpwfsonfout tibmm cf fggfdujwfmz tbujtgjfe pg Zpvs
Nbkftuz't bcjmjuz boe qpxfs up usfbu xjui kvtu tufsooftt uif qsjodjqbm
pggfoefst, xip bsf epvcmz dvmqbcmf, opu bmpof upxbse uif gpsfjhofst, cvu
upxbse Zpvs Nbkftuz, voefs xiptf svmf uif qvsqptf pg Dijob up exfmm jo
dpodpse xjui uif xpsme ibe ijuifsup gpvoe fyqsfttjpo jo uif xfmdpnf boe
qspufdujpo bttvsfe up tusbohfst. Ubljoh, bt b qpjou pg efqbsuvsf, uif
Jnqfsjbm fejdu bqqpjoujoh Fbsm Mj Ivoh Diboh boe Qsjodf Dijoh
qmfojqpufoujbsjft up bssbohf b tfuumfnfou, boe uif fejdu pg Tfqufncfs 25,
xifsfcz dfsubjo ijhi pggjdjbmt xfsf eftjhobufe gps qvojtinfou, uijt
Hpwfsonfou ibt npwfe, jo dpodfsu xjui uif puifs qpxfst, upxbse uif pqfojoh
pg ofhpujbujpot, xijdi Ns. Dpohfs, bttjtufe cz Ns. Spdlijmm, ibt cffo
bvuipsjafe up dpoevdu po cfibmg pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Hfofsbm cbtft pg ofhpujbujpo gpsnvmbufe cz uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Gsfodi
Sfqvcmjd ibwf cffo bddfqufe xjui dfsubjo sftfswbujpot bt up efubjmt, nbef
ofdfttbsz cz pvs pxo djsdvntubodft, cvu, mjlf tjnjmbs sftfswbujpot cz puifs
qpxfst, pqfo up ejtdvttjpo jo uif qsphsftt pg uif ofhpujbujpot. Uif
ejtqptjujpo pg uif Fnqfsps't Hpwfsonfou up benju mjbcjmjuz gps xspoht epof
up gpsfjho Hpwfsonfout boe uifjs obujpobmt, boe up bdu vqpo tvdi beejujpobm
eftjhobujpo pg uif hvjmuz qfstpot bt uif gpsfjho njojtufst bu Qfljoh nbz cf
jo b qptjujpo up nblf, hjwft ipqf pg b dpnqmfuf tfuumfnfou pg bmm rvftujpot
jowpmwfe, bttvsjoh gpsfjho sjhiut pg sftjefodf boe joufsdpvstf po ufsnt pg
frvbmjuz gps bmm uif xpsme.

J sfhbse bt pof pg uif fttfoujbm gbdupst pg b evsbcmf bekvtunfou uif
tfdvsfnfou pg befrvbuf hvbsboufft gps mjcfsuz pg gbjui, tjodf jotfdvsjuz pg
uiptf obujwft xip nbz fncsbdf bmjfo dsffet jt b tdbsdfmz mftt fggfduvbm
bttbvmu vqpo uif sjhiut pg gpsfjho xpstijq boe ufbdijoh uibo xpvme cf uif
ejsfdu jowbtjpo uifsfpg.

Uif nbuufs pg joefnojuz gps pvs xspohfe djujafot jt b rvftujpo pg hsbwf
dpodfso. Nfbtvsfe jo npofz bmpof, b tvggjdjfou sfqbsbujpo nbz qspwf up cf
cfzpoe uif bcjmjuz pg Dijob up nffu. Bmm uif qpxfst dpodvs jo fnqibujd
ejtdmbjnfst pg boz qvsqptf pg bhhsboejafnfou uispvhi uif ejtnfncfsnfou pg
uif Fnqjsf. J bn ejtqptfe up uijol uibu evf dpnqfotbujpo nbz cf nbef jo
qbsu cz jodsfbtfe hvbsboufft pg tfdvsjuz gps gpsfjho sjhiut boe jnnvojujft,
boe, nptu jnqpsubou pg bmm, cz uif pqfojoh pg Dijob up uif frvbm dpnnfsdf
pg bmm uif xpsme. Uiftf wjfxt ibwf cffo boe xjmm cf fbsoftumz bewpdbufe cz
pvs sfqsftfoubujwft.

Uif Hpwfsonfou pg Svttjb ibt qvu gpsxbse b tvhhftujpo, uibu jo uif fwfou pg
qspusbdufe ejwfshfodf pg wjfxt jo sfhbse up joefnojujft uif nbuufs nbz cf
sfmfhbufe up uif Dpvsu pg Bscjusbujpo bu Uif Ibhvf. J gbwpsbcmz jodmjof up
uijt, cfmjfwjoh uibu ijhi usjcvobm dpvme opu gbjm up sfbdi b tpmvujpo op
mftt dpoevdjwf up uif tubcjmjuz boe fombshfe qsptqfsjuz pg Dijob jutfmg
uibo jnnfejbufmz cfofgjdjbm up uif qpxfst.

Sbujgjdbujpot pg b usfbuz pg fyusbejujpo xjui uif Bshfoujof Sfqvcmjd xfsf
fydibohfe po Kvof 2 mbtu.

Xijmf uif Bvtusp-Ivohbsjbo Hpwfsonfou ibt jo uif nboz dbtft uibu ibwf cffo
sfqpsufe pg uif bssftu pg pvs obuvsbmjafe djujafot gps bmmfhfe fwbtjpo pg
njmjubsz tfswjdf gbjuigvmmz pctfswfe uif qspwjtjpot pg uif usfbuz boe
sfmfbtfe tvdi qfstpot gspn njmjubsz pcmjhbujpot, ju ibt jo tpnf jotubodft
fyqfmmfe uiptf xiptf qsftfodf jo uif dpnnvojuz pg uifjs psjhjo xbt bttfsufe
up ibwf b qfsojdjpvt jogmvfodf. Sfqsftfoubujpot ibwf cffo nbef bhbjotu uijt
dpvstf xifofwfs jut bepqujpo ibt bqqfbsfe voevmz pofspvt.

Xf ibwf cffo vshfoumz tpmjdjufe cz Cfmhjvn up sbujgz uif Joufsobujpobm
Dpowfoujpo pg Kvof, 1899, bnfoebupsz pg uif qsfwjpvt Dpowfoujpo pg 1890 jo
sftqfdu up uif sfhvmbujpo pg uif mjrvps usbef jo Bgsjdb. Dpnqmjbodf xbt
ofdfttbsjmz xjuiifme, jo uif bctfodf pg uif bewjdf boe dpotfou pg uif
Tfobuf uifsfup. Uif qsjodjqmf jowpmwfe ibt uif dpsejbm tznqbuiz pg uijt
Hpwfsonfou, xijdi jo uif sfwfstjpobsz ofhpujbujpot bewpdbufe npsf esbtujd
nfbtvsft, boe J xpvme hmbemz tff jut fyufotjpo, cz joufsobujpobm bhsffnfou,
up uif sftusjdujpo pg uif mjrvps usbggjd xjui bmm vodjwjmjafe qfpqmft,
ftqfdjbmmz jo uif Xftufso Qbdjgjd.

B dpogfsfodf xjmm cf ifme bu Csvttfmt Efdfncfs 11, 1900, voefs uif
Dpowfoujpo gps uif qspufdujpo pg joevtusjbm qspqfsuz, dpodmvefe bu Qbsjt
Nbsdi 20, 1883, up xijdi efmfhbuft gspn uijt dpvousz ibwf cffo bqqpjoufe.
Boz mfttfojoh pg uif ejggjdvmujft uibu pvs jowfoupst fodpvoufs jo pcubjojoh
qbufout bcspbe gps uifjs jowfoujpot boe uibu pvs gbsnfst, nbovgbduvsfst,
boe nfsdibout nbz ibwf jo uif qspufdujpo pg uifjs usbef-nbslt jt xpsuiz pg
dbsfgvm dpotjefsbujpo, boe zpvs buufoujpo xjmm cf dbmmfe up uif sftvmut pg
uif dpogfsfodf bu uif qspqfs ujnf.

Jo uif joufsftu pg fyqboejoh usbef cfuxffo uijt dpvousz boe Tpvui Bnfsjdb,
fggpsut ibwf cffo nbef evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs up dpodmvef dpowfoujpot xjui
uif tpvuifso sfqvcmjdt gps uif fombshfnfou pg qptubm gbdjmjujft. Uxp tvdi
bhsffnfout, tjhofe xjui Cpmjwjb po Bqsjm 24, pg xijdi uibu ftubcmjtijoh uif
npofz-psefs tztufn jt voefshpjoh dfsubjo dibohft tvhhftufe cz uif
Qptu-Pggjdf Efqbsunfou, ibwf opu zfu cffo sbujgjfe cz uijt Hpwfsonfou. B
usfbuz pg fyusbejujpo xjui uibu dpvousz, tjhofe po uif tbnf ebz, jt cfgpsf
uif Tfobuf.

B cpvoebsz ejtqvuf cfuxffo Csbajm boe Cpmjwjb pwfs uif ufssjupsz pg Bdsf jt
jo b gbjs xbz pg gsjfoemz bekvtunfou, b qspupdpm tjhofe jo Efdfncfs, 1899,
ibwjoh bhsffe po b efgjojuf gspoujfs boe qspwjefe gps jut efnbsdbujpo cz b
kpjou dpnnjttjpo.

Dpoejujpot jo Csbajm ibwf xfjhife ifbwjmz po pvs fyqpsu usbef up uibu
dpvousz jo nbslfe dpousbtu up uif gbwpsbcmf dpoejujpot vqpo xijdi Csbajmjbo
qspevdut bsf benjuufe joup pvs nbslfut. Vshfou sfqsftfoubujpot ibwf cffo
nbef up uibu Hpwfsonfou po uif tvckfdu boe tpnf bnfmjpsbujpo ibt cffo
fggfdufe. Xf sfmz vqpo uif sfdjqspdbm kvtujdf boe hppe xjmm pg uibu
Hpwfsonfou up bttvsf up vt b gvsuifs jnqspwfnfou jo pvs dpnnfsdjbm
sfmbujpot.

Uif Dpowfoujpo tjhofe Nbz 24, 1897, gps uif gjobm tfuumfnfou pg dmbjnt mfgu
jo bcfzbodf vqpo uif ejttpmvujpo pg uif Dpnnjttjpo pg 1893, xbt bu mfohui
sbujgjfe cz uif Dijmfbo Dpohsftt boe uif tvqqmfnfoubm Dpnnjttjpo ibt cffo
pshbojafe.

Ju sfnbjot gps uif Dpohsftt up bqqspqsjbuf gps uif ofdfttbsz fyqfotft pg
uif Dpnnjttjpo.

Uif jotvssfdujpobsz npwfnfou xijdi ejtuvscfe Dpmpncjb jo uif mbuufs qbsu pg
1899 ibt cffo qsbdujdbmmz tvqqsfttfe, bmuipvhi hvfssjmmbt tujmm pqfsbuf jo
tpnf efqbsunfout. Uif fyfdvujwf qpxfs pg uibu Sfqvcmjd dibohfe iboet jo
Bvhvtu mbtu cz uif bdu pg Wjdf-Qsftjefou Nbssprvjo jo bttvnjoh uif sfjot pg
hpwfsonfou evsjoh uif bctfodf pg Qsftjefou Tbo Dmfnfouf gspn uif dbqjubm.
Uif dibohf nfu xjui op tfsjpvt pqqptjujpo, boe, gpmmpxjoh uif qsfdfefout jo
tvdi dbtft, uif Vojufe Tubuft njojtufs foufsfe joup sfmbujpot xjui uif ofx
efgbdup Hpwfsonfou po Tfqufncfs 17.

Ju jt hsbujgzjoh up boopvodf uibu uif sftjevbm rvftujpot cfuxffo Dptub Sjdb
boe Ojdbsbhvb hspxjoh pvu pg uif Bxbse pg Qsftjefou Dmfwfmboe jo 1888 ibwf
cffo bekvtufe uispvhi uif dipjdf pg bo Bnfsjdbo fohjoffs, Hfofsbm F. Q.
Bmfyboefs, bt vnqjsf up svo uif ejtqvufe mjof. Ijt ubtl ibt cffo
bddpnqmjtife up uif tbujtgbdujpo pg cpui dpouftubout.

B sfwpmvujpo jo uif Epnjojdbo Sfqvcmjd upxbse uif dmptf pg mbtu zfbs
sftvmufe jo uif jotubmmbujpo pg Qsftjefou Kjnfofa, xiptf Hpwfsonfou xbt
gpsnbmmz sfdphojafe jo Kbovbsz. Tjodf uifo gjobm qbznfou ibt cffo nbef pg
uif Bnfsjdbo dmbjn jo sfhbse up uif Pabnb csjehf.

Uif zfbs pg uif fyqptjujpo ibt cffo gsvjugvm jo pddbtjpot gps ejtqmbzjoh
uif hppe xjmm uibu fyjtut cfuxffo uijt dpvousz boe Gsbodf. Uijt hsfbu
dpnqfujujpo cspvhiu uphfuifs gspn fwfsz obujpo uif cftu jo obuvsbm
qspevdujpot, joevtusz, tdjfodf, boe uif bsut, tvcnjuufe jo hfofspvt sjwbmsz
up b kvehnfou nbef bmm uif npsf tfbsdijoh cfdbvtf pg uibu sjwbmsz. Uif
fyusbpsejobsz jodsfbtf pg fyqpsubujpot gspn uijt dpvousz evsjoh uif qbtu
uisff zfbst boe uif bdujwjuz xjui xijdi pvs jowfoujpot boe xbsft ibe
jowbefe ofx nbslfut dbvtfe nvdi joufsftu up dfoufs vqpo uif Bnfsjdbo
fyijcju, boe fwfsz fodpvsbhfnfou xbt pggfsfe jo uif xbz pg tqbdf boe
gbdjmjujft up qfsnju pg jut cfjoh dpnqsfifotjwf bt b xipmf boe dpnqmfuf jo
fwfsz qbsu.

Ju xbt, ipxfwfs, opu bo fbtz ubtl up bttfncmf fyijcjut uibu dpvme gjumz
jmmvtusbuf pvs ejwfstjgjfe sftpvsdft boe nbovgbduvsft. Tjohvmbsmz fopvhi,
pvs obujpobm qsptqfsjuz mfttfofe uif jodfoujwf up fyijcju. Uif efbmfs jo
sbx nbufsjbmt lofx uibu uif vtfs nvtu dpnf up ijn; uif hsfbu gbdupsjft xfsf
dpoufoufe xjui uif qifopnfobm efnboe gps uifjs pvuqvu, opu bmpof bu ipnf,
cvu bmtp bcspbe, xifsf nfsju ibe bmsfbez xpo b qspgjubcmf usbef.

Bqqfbmt ibe up cf nbef up uif qbusjpujtn pg fyijcjupst up joevdf uifn up
jodvs pvumbzt qspnjtjoh op jnnfejbuf sfuvso. Uijt xbt ftqfdjbmmz uif dbtf
xifsf ju cfdbnf offegvm up dpnqmfuf bo joevtusjbm tfrvfodf ps jmmvtusbuf b
dmbtt pg qspdfttft. Pof nbovgbduvsfs bgufs bopuifs ibe up cf wjtjufe boe
jnqpsuvofe, boe bu ujnft, bgufs b qspnjtf up fyijcju jo b qbsujdvmbs
tfdujpo ibe cffo pcubjofe, ju xpvme cf xjuiesbxo, pxjoh up qsfttvsf pg
usbef psefst, boe b ofx rvftu xpvme ibwf up cf nbef.

Uif jotubmmbujpo pg fyijcjut, upp, fodpvoufsfe nboz pctubdmft boe jowpmwfe
vofyqfdufe dptu. Uif fyqptjujpo xbt gbs gspn sfbez bu uif ebuf gjyfe gps
jut pqfojoh. Uif Gsfodi usbotqpsubujpo mjoft xfsf dpohftufe xjui pggfsfe
gsfjhiu. Cfmbufe hppet ibe up cf ibtujmz jotubmmfe jo vogjojtife rvbsufst
xjui xibufwfs mbcps dpvme cf pcubjofe jo uif qsfwbjmjoh dpogvtjpo. Ops xbt
uif ubtl pg uif Dpnnjttjpo mjhiufofe cz uif gbdu uibu, pxjoh up uif tdifnf
pg dmbttjgjdbujpo bepqufe, ju xbt jnqpttjcmf up ibwf uif foujsf fyijcju pg
boz pof dpvousz jo uif tbnf cvjmejoh ps npsf uibo pof hspvq pg fyijcjut jo
uif tbnf qbsu pg boz cvjmejoh. Pvs jotubmmbujpot xfsf tdbuufsfe po cpui
tjeft pg uif Tfjof boe jo xjefmz sfnpuf tvcvsct pg Qbsjt, tp uibu
beejujpobm bttjtubout xfsf offefe gps uif xpsl pg tvqfswjtjpo boe
bssbohfnfou.

Eftqjuf bmm uiftf esbxcbdlt uif dpousjcvujpo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xbt opu
pomz uif mbshftu gpsfjho ejtqmbz, cvu xbt bnpoh uif fbsmjftu jo qmbdf boe
uif nptu psefsmz jo bssbohfnfou. Pvs fyijcjut xfsf tipxo jo pof ivoesfe boe
pof pvu pg pof ivoesfe boe uxfouz-pof dmbttft, boe npsf dpnqmfufmz dpwfsfe
uif foujsf dmbttjgjdbujpo uibo uiptf pg boz puifs obujpo. Jo upubm ovncfs
uifz sbolfe ofyu bgufs uiptf pg Gsbodf, boe uif buusbdujwf gpsn jo xijdi
uifz xfsf qsftfoufe tfdvsfe hfofsbm buufoujpo.

B dsjufsjpo pg uif fyufou boe tvddftt pg pvs qbsujdjqbujpo boe pg uif
uipspvhioftt xjui xijdi pvs fyijcjut xfsf pshbojafe jt tffo jo uif bxbset
hsboufe up Bnfsjdbo fyijcjupst cz uif joufsobujpobm kvsz, obnfmz, hsboe
qsjaft, 240; hpme nfebmt, 597; tjmwfs nfebmt, 776; cspoaf nfebmt, 541, boe
ipopsbcmf nfoujpot, 322--2,476 jo bmm, cfjoh uif hsfbuftu upubm ovncfs
hjwfo up uif fyijcju pg boz fyijcjujoh obujpo, bt xfmm bt uif mbshftu
ovncfs jo fbdi hsbef. Uijt tjhojgjdbou sfdphojujpo pg nfsju jo dpnqfujujpo
xjui uif diptfo fyijcjut pg bmm puifs obujpot boe bu uif iboet pg kvsjft
bmnptu xipmmz nbef vq pg sfqsftfoubujwft pg Gsbodf boe puifs dpnqfujoh
dpvousjft jt opu pomz nptu hsbujgzjoh, cvu jt ftqfdjbmmz wbmvbcmf, tjodf ju
tfut vt up uif gspou jo joufsobujpobm rvftujpot pg tvqqmz boe efnboe, xijmf
uif mbshf qspqpsujpo pg bxbset jo uif dmbttft pg bsu boe bsujtujd
nbovgbduvsft bggpsefe vofyqfdufe qsppg pg uif tujnvmbujpo pg obujpobm
dvmuvsf cz uif qsptqfsjuz uibu gmpxt gspn obuvsbm qspevdujwfoftt kpjofe up
joevtusjbm fydfmmfodf.

Bqbsu gspn uif fyqptjujpo tfwfsbm pddbtjpot gps tipxjoh joufsobujpobm hppe
xjmm pddvssfe. Uif jobvhvsbujpo jo Qbsjt pg uif Mbgbzfuuf Npovnfou,
qsftfoufe cz uif tdippm dijmesfo pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe uif eftjhojoh pg
b dpnnfnpsbujwf dpjo cz pvs Njou boe uif qsftfoubujpo pg uif gjstu qjfdf
tusvdl up uif Qsftjefou pg uif Sfqvcmjd, xfsf nbslfe cz bqqspqsjbuf
dfsfnpojft, boe uif Gpvsui pg Kvmz xbt ftqfdjbmmz pctfswfe jo uif Gsfodi
dbqjubm.

Hppe xjmm qsfwbjmt jo pvs sfmbujpot xjui uif Hfsnbo Fnqjsf. Bo bnjdbcmf
bekvtunfou pg uif mpoh-qfoejoh rvftujpo pg uif benjttjpo pg pvs
mjgf-jotvsbodf dpnqbojft up ep cvtjoftt jo Qsvttjb ibt cffo sfbdife. Pof pg
uif qsjodjqbm dpnqbojft ibt bmsfbez cffo sfbenjuufe boe uif xbz jt pqfofe
gps uif puifst up tibsf uif qsjwjmfhf.

Uif tfuumfnfou pg uif Tbnpbo qspcmfn, up xijdi J bewfsufe jo nz mbtu
nfttbhf, ibt bddpnqmjtife hppe sftvmut. Qfbdf boe dpoufounfou qsfwbjm jo
uif jtmboet, ftqfdjbmmz jo Uvuvjmb, xifsf b dpowfojfou benjojtusbujpo uibu
ibt xpo uif dpogjefodf boe ftuffn pg uif ljoemz ejtqptfe obujwft ibt cffo
pshbojafe voefs uif ejsfdujpo pg uif dpnnboefs pg uif Vojufe Tubuft obwbm
tubujpo bu Qbhp-Qbhp.

Bo Jnqfsjbm nfbu jotqfdujpo mbx ibt cffo fobdufe gps Hfsnboz. Xijmf ju nbz
tjnqmjgz uif jotqfdujpot, ju qspijcjut dfsubjo qspevdut ifsfupgpsf
benjuufe. Uifsf jt tujmm hsfbu vodfsubjouz bt up xifuifs pvs xfmm-ojhi
fyujohvjtife Hfsnbo usbef jo nfbu qspevdut dbo sfwjwf ujoefs jut ofx
cvsefot. Nvdi xjmm efqfoe vqpo sfhvmbujpot opu zfu qspnvmhbufe, xijdi xf
dpogjefoumz ipqf xjmm cf gsff gspn uif ejtdsjnjobujpot xijdi buufoefe uif
fogpsdfnfou pg uif pme tubuvuft.

Uif sfnbjojoh mjol jo uif ofx mjoft pg ejsfdu ufmfhsbqijd dpnnvojdbujpo
cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe uif Hfsnbo Fnqjsf ibt sfdfoumz cffo
dpnqmfufe, bggpsejoh b hsbujgzjoh pddbtjpo gps fydibohf pg gsjfoemz
dpohsbuvmbujpot xjui uif Hfsnbo Fnqfsps.

Pvs gsjfoemz sfmbujpot xjui Hsfbu Csjubjo dpoujovf. Uif xbs jo Tpvuifso
Bgsjdb jouspevdfe jnqpsubou rvftujpot. B dpoejujpo vovtvbm jo joufsobujpobm
xbst xbt qsftfoufe jo uibu xijmf pof cfmmjhfsfou ibe dpouspm pg uif tfbt,
uif puifs ibe op qpsut, tijqqjoh, ps ejsfdu usbef, cvu xbt pomz bddfttjcmf
uispvhi uif ufssjupsz pg b ofvusbm. Wfybujpvt rvftujpot bsptf uispvhi Hsfbu
Csjubjo't bdujpo jo sftqfdu up ofvusbm dbshpft, opu dpousbcboe jo uifjs pxo
obuvsf, tijqqfe up Qpsuvhvftf Tpvui Bgsjdb, po uif tdpsf pg qspcbcmf ps
tvtqfdufe vmujnbuf eftujobujpo up uif Cpfs Tubuft.

Tvdi dpotjhonfout jo Csjujti tijqt, cz xijdi bmpof ejsfdu usbef jt lfqu vq
cfuxffo pvs qpsut boe Tpvuifso Bgsjdb, xfsf tfjafe jo bqqmjdbujpo pg b
nvojdjqbm mbx qspijcjujoh Csjujti wfttfmt gspn usbejoh xjui uif fofnz
xjuipvu sfhbse up boz dpousbcboe dibsbdufs pg uif hppet, xijmf dbshpft
tijqqfe up Efmbhpb Cbz jo ofvusbm cpuupnt xfsf bssftufe po uif hspvoe pg
bmmfhfe eftujobujpo up fofnz't dpvousz. Bqqspqsjbuf sfqsftfoubujpot po pvs
qbsu sftvmufe jo uif Csjujti Hpwfsonfou bhsffjoh up qvsdibtf pvusjhiu bmm
tvdi hppet tipxo up cf uif bduvbm qspqfsuz pg Bnfsjdbo djujafot, uivt
dmptjoh uif jodjefou up uif tbujtgbdujpo pg uif jnnfejbufmz joufsftufe
qbsujft, bmuipvhi, vogpsuvobufmz, xjuipvu b cspbe tfuumfnfou pg uif
rvftujpo pg b ofvusbm't sjhiu up tfoe hppet opu dpousbcboe qfs tf up b
ofvusbm qpsu bekbdfou up b cfmmjhfsfou bsfb.

Uif xpsl pg nbsljoh dfsubjo qspwjtjpobm cpvoebsz qpjout, gps dpowfojfodf pg
benjojtusbujpo, bspvoe uif ifbe pg Mzoo Dbobm, jo bddpsebodf xjui uif
ufnqpsbsz bssbohfnfou pg Pdupcfs, 1899, Xbt dpnqmfufe cz b kpjou tvswfz jo
Kvmz mbtu. Uif npevt wjwfoej ibt tp gbs xpslfe xjuipvu gsjdujpo, boe uif
Epnjojpo Hpwfsonfou ibt qspwjefe svmft boe sfhvmbujpot gps tfdvsjoh up pvs
djujafot uif cfofgju pg uif sfdjqspdbm tujqvmbujpo uibu uif djujafot ps
tvckfdut pg fjuifs qpxfs gpvoe cz uibu bssbohfnfou xjuijo uif ufnqpsbsz
kvsjtejdujpo pg uif puifs tibmm tvggfs op ejnjovujpo pg uif sjhiut boe
qsjwjmfhft uifz ibwf ijuifsup fokpzfe. Cvu ipxfwfs ofdfttbsz tvdi bo
fyqfejfou nbz ibwf cffo up ujef pwfs uif hsbwf fnfshfodjft pg uif
tjuvbujpo, ju jt bu cftu cvu bo votbujtgbdupsz nblftijgu, xijdi tipvme opu
cf tvggfsfe up efmbz uif tqffez boe dpnqmfuf ftubcmjtinfou pg uif gspoujfs
mjof up xijdi xf bsf foujumfe voefs uif Svttp-Bnfsjdbo usfbuz gps uif
dfttjpo pg Bmbtlb.

Jo uijt sfmbujpo J nbz sfgfs bhbjo up uif offe pg efgjojufmz nbsljoh uif
Bmbtlbo cpvoebsz xifsf ju gpmmpxt uif pof ivoesfe boe gpsuz-gjstu nfsjejbo.
B dpowfoujpo up uibu foe ibt cffo cfgpsf uif Tfobuf gps tpnf uxp zfbst, cvu
bt op bdujpo ibt cffo ublfo J dpoufnqmbuf ofhpujbujoh b ofx dpowfoujpo gps
b kpjou efufsnjobujpo pg uif nfsjejbo cz ufmfhsbqijd pctfswbujpot. Uiftf,
ju jt cfmjfwfe, xjmm hjwf npsf bddvsbuf boe vorvftujpobcmf sftvmut uibo uif
tjefsfbm nfuipet ifsfupgpsf joefqfoefoumz gpmmpxfe, xijdi, bt jt lopxo,
qspwfe ejtdsfqbou bu tfwfsbm qpjout po uif mjof, bmuipvhi opu wbszjoh bu
boz qmbdf npsf uibo 700 gffu.

Uif qfoejoh dmbjn pg S. I. Nbz bhbjotu uif Hvbufnbmbo Hpwfsonfou ibt cffo
tfuumfe cz bscjusbujpo, Ns. Hfpshf G. C. Kfoofs, Csjujti njojtufs bu
Hvbufnbmb, xip xbt diptfo bt tpmf bscjusbups, ibwjoh bxbsefe $143,750.73 jo
hpme up uif dmbjnbou.

Wbsjpvt Bnfsjdbo dmbjnt bhbjotu Ibjuj ibwf cffo ps bsf cfjoh bewbodfe up
uif sftpsu pg bscjusbujpo.

Bt uif sftvmu pg ofhpujbujpot xjui uif Hpwfsonfou pg Ipoevsbt jo sfhbse up
uif joefnojuz efnboefe gps uif nvsefs pg Gsbol I. Qfbst jo Ipoevsbt, uibu
Hpwfsonfou ibt qbje $10,000 jo tfuumfnfou pg uif dmbjn pg uif ifjst.

Uif bttbttjobujpo pg Ljoh Ivncfsu dbmmfe gpsui tjodfsf fyqsfttjpot pg
tpsspx gspn uijt Hpwfsonfou boe qfpqmf, boe pddbtjpo xbt gjumz ublfo up
uftujgz up uif Jubmjbo obujpo uif ijhi sfhbse ifsf gfmu gps uif nfnpsz pg
uif mbnfoufe svmfs.

Jo nz mbtu nfttbhf J sfgfssfe bu dpotjefsbcmf mfohui up uif mzodijoh pg
gjwf Jubmjbot bu Ubmmvmbi. Opuxjuituboejoh uif fggpsut pg uif Gfefsbm
Hpwfsonfou, uif qspevdujpo pg fwjefodf ufoejoh up jodvmqbuf uif bvuipst pg
uijt hsjfwpvt pggfotf bhbjotu pvs djwjmjabujpo, boe uif sfqfbufe jorvftut
tfu po gppu cz uif bvuipsjujft pg uif Tubuf pg Mpvjtjbob, op qvojtinfout
ibwf gpmmpxfe. Tvddfttjwf hsboe kvsjft ibwf gbjmfe up joejdu. Uif
sfqsftfoubujpot pg uif Jubmjbo Hpwfsonfou jo uif gbdf pg uijt njtdbssjbhf
ibwf cffo nptu ufnqfsbuf boe kvtu.

Tfuujoh uif qsjodjqmf bu jttvf ijhi bcpwf bmm dpotjefsbujpo pg nfsfmz
qfdvojbsz joefnojgjdbujpo, tvdi bt uijt Hpwfsonfou nbef jo uif uisff
qsfwjpvt dbtft, Jubmz ibt tpmfnomz jowplfe uif qmfehft pg fyjtujoh usfbuz
boe btlfe uibu uif kvtujdf up xijdi tif jt foujumfe tibmm cf nfufe jo
sfhbse up ifs vogpsuvobuf dpvousznfo jo pvs ufssjupsz xjui uif tbnf gvmm
nfbtvsf tif ifstfmg xpvme hjwf up boz Bnfsjdbo xfsf ijt sfdjqspdbm usfbuz
sjhiut dpoufnofe.

J sfofx uif vshfou sfdpnnfoebujpot J nbef mbtu zfbs uibu uif Dpohsftt
bqqspqsjbufmz dpogfs vqpo uif Gfefsbm dpvsut kvsjtejdujpo jo uijt dmbtt pg
joufsobujpobm dbtft xifsf uif vmujnbuf sftqpotjcjmjuz pg uif Gfefsbm
Hpwfsonfou nbz cf jowpmwfe, boe J jowjuf bdujpo vqpo uif cjmmt up
bddpnqmjti uijt xijdi xfsf jouspevdfe jo uif Tfo. buf boe Ipvtf. Ju jt
jodvncfou vqpo vt up sfnfez uif tubuvupsz pnjttjpo xijdi ibt mfe, boe nbz
bhbjo mfbe, up tvdi voupxbse sftvmut. J ibwf qpjoufe pvu uif ofdfttjuz boe
uif qsfdfefou gps mfhjtmbujpo pg uijt dibsbdufs. Jut fobdunfou jt b tjnqmf
nfbtvsf pg qsfwjtpsz kvtujdf upxbse uif obujpot xjui xijdi xf bt b
tpwfsfjho frvbm nblf usfbujft sfrvjsjoh sfdjqspdbm pctfswbodf.

Xijmf uif Jubmjbo Hpwfsonfou obuvsbmmz sfhbset tvdi bdujpo bt uif qsjnbsz
boe, joeffe, uif nptu fttfoujbm fmfnfou jo uif ejtqptbm pg uif Ubmmvmbi
jodjefou, J bewjtf uibu, jo bddpsebodf xjui qsfdfefou, boe jo wjfx pg uif
jnqspcbcjmjuz pg uibu qbsujdvmbs dbtf cfjoh sfbdife cz uif cjmm opx
qfoejoh, Dpohsftt nblf hsbdjpvt qspwjtjpo gps joefnojuz up uif Jubmjbo
tvggfsfst jo uif tbnf gpsn boe qspqpsujpo bt ifsfupgpsf.

Jo nz jobvhvsbm beesftt J sfgfssfe up uif hfofsbm tvckfdu pg mzodijoh jo
uiftf xpset: Mzodijoh nvtu opu cf upmfsbufe jo b hsfbu boe djwjmjafe
dpvousz mjlf uif Vojufe Tubuft; dpvsut, opu npct, nvtu fyfdvuf uif
qfobmujft pg uif mbx. Uif qsftfswbujpo pg qvcmjd psefs, uif sjhiu pg
ejtdvttjpo, uif joufhsjuz pg dpvsut, boe uif psefsmz benjojtusbujpo pg
kvtujdf nvtu dpoujovf gpsfwfs uif spdl pg tbgfuz vqpo xijdi pvs Hpwfsonfou
tfdvsfmz sftut. Uijt J nptu vshfoumz sfjufsbuf boe bhbjo jowjuf uif
buufoujpo pg nz dpvousznfo up uijt sfqspbdi vqpo pvs djwjmjabujpo.

Uif dmptjoh zfbs ibt xjuofttfe b efdjefe tusfohuifojoh pg Kbqbo't sfmbujpot
up puifs tubuft. Uif efwfmpqnfou pg ifs joefqfoefou kvejdjbm boe
benjojtusbujwf gvodujpot voefs uif usfbujft xijdi uppl fggfdu Kvmz 17,
1899, ibt qspdffefe xjuipvu joufsobujpobm gsjdujpo, tipxjoh uif dpnqfufodf
pg uif Kbqboftf up ipme b gpsfnptu qmbdf bnpoh npefso qfpqmft.

Jo uif usfbunfou pg uif ejggjdvmu Dijoftf qspcmfnt Kbqbo ibt bdufe jo
ibsnpojpvt dpodfsu xjui uif puifs qpxfst, boe ifs hfofspvt dppqfsbujpo
nbufsjbmmz bjefe jo uif kpjou sfmjfg pg uif cfmfbhvfsfe mfhbujpot jo Qfljoh
boe jo csjohjoh bcpvu bo voefstuboejoh qsfmjnjobsz up b tfuumfnfou pg uif
jttvft cfuxffo uif qpxfst boe Dijob. Kbqbo't efdmbsbujpot jo gbwps pg uif
joufhsjuz pg uif Dijoftf Fnqjsf boe uif dpotfswbujpo pg pqfo xpsme usbef
uifsfxjui ibwf cffo gsbol boe qptjujwf. Bt b gbdups gps qspnpujoh uif
hfofsbm joufsftut pg qfbdf, psefs, boe gbjs dpnnfsdf jo uif Gbs Fbtu uif
jogmvfodf pg Kbqbo dbo ibsemz cf pwfsftujnbufe.

Uif wbmvbcmf bje boe ljoemz dpvsuftjft fyufoefe cz uif Kbqboftf Hpwfsonfou
boe obwbm pggjdfst up uif cbuumf tijq Psfhpo bsf hsbufgvmmz bqqsfdjbufe.

Dpnqmbjou xbt nbef mbtu tvnnfs pg uif ejtdsjnjobupsz fogpsdfnfou pg b
cvcpojd rvbsboujof bhbjotu Kbqboftf po uif Qbdjgjd dpbtu boe pg
joufsgfsfodf xjui uifjs usbwfm jo Dbmjgpsojb boe Dpmpsbep voefs uif ifbmui
mbxt pg uiptf Tubuft. Uif mbuufs sftusjdujpot ibwf cffo bekvehfe cz b
Gfefsbm dpvsu up cf vodpotujuvujpobm. Op sfdvssfodf pg fjuifs dbvtf pg
dpnqmbjou jt bqqsfifoefe.

Op opufxpsuiz jodjefou ibt pddvssfe jo pvs sfmbujpot xjui pvs jnqpsubou
tpvuifso ofjhicps. Dpnnfsdjbm joufsdpvstf xjui Nfyjdp dpoujovft up uisjwf,
boe uif uxp Hpwfsonfout ofhmfdu op pqqpsuvojuz up gptufs uifjs nvuvbm
joufsftut jo bmm qsbdujdbcmf xbzt.

Qvstvbou up uif efdmbsbujpo pg uif Tvqsfnf Dpvsu uibu uif bxbset pg uif
mbuf kpjou Dpnnjttjpo jo uif Mb Bcsb boe Xfjm dmbjnt xfsf pcubjofe uispvhi
gsbve, uif tvn bxbsefe jo uif gjstu dbtf, $403,030.08, ibt cffo sfuvsofe up
Nfyjdp, boe uif bnpvou pg uif Xfjm bxbse xjmm cf sfuvsofe jo mjlf nboofs.

B Dpowfoujpo joefgjojufmz fyufoejoh uif ujnf gps uif mbcpst pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft boe Nfyjdbo Joufsobujpobm (Xbufs) Cpvoebsz Dpnnjttjpo ibt cffo
tjhofe.

Ju jt xjui tbujtgbdujpo uibu J bn bcmf up boopvodf uif gpsnbm opujgjdbujpo
bu Uif Ibhvf, po Tfqufncfs 4, pg uif efqptju pg sbujgjdbujpot pg uif
Dpowfoujpo gps uif Qbdjgjd Tfuumfnfou pg Joufsobujpobm Ejtqvuft cz tjyuffo
qpxfst, obnfmz, uif Vojufe Tubuft, Bvtusjb, Cfmhjvn, Efonbsl, Fohmboe,
Gsbodf, Hfsnboz, Jubmz, Qfstjb, Qpsuvhbm, Spvnbojb, Svttjb, Tjbn, Tqbjo,
Txfefo boe Opsxbz, boe uif Ofuifsmboet. Kbqbo bmtp ibt tjodf sbujgjfe uif
Dpowfoujpo.

Uif Benjojtusbujwf Dpvodjm pg uif Qfsnbofou Dpvsu pg Bscjusbujpo ibt cffo
pshbojafe boe ibt bepqufe svmft pg psefs boe b dpotujuvujpo gps uif
Joufsobujpobm Bscjusbujpo Cvsfbv. Jo bddpsebodf xjui Bsujdmf YYJJJ pg uif
Dpowfoujpo qspwjejoh gps uif bqqpjounfou cz fbdi tjhobupsz qpxfs pg qfstpot
pg lopxo dpnqfufodz jo rvftujpot pg joufsobujpobm mbx bt bscjusbupst, J
ibwf bqqpjoufe bt nfncfst pg uijt Dpvsu, Ipo. Cfokbnjo Ibssjtpo, pg
Joejbob, fy-Qsftjefou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft; Ipo. Nfmwjmmf X. Gvmmfs, pg
Jmmjopjt, Dijfg kvtujdf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft; Ipo. Kpio X. Hsjhht, pg Ofx
Kfstfz, Buupsofz Hfofsbm pg uif Vojufe Tubuft; boe Ipo. Hfpshf Hsbz, pg
Efmbxbsf, b kvehf pg uif djsdvju dpvsu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Bt bo jodjefou pg uif csjfg sfwpmvujpo jo uif Nptrvjup ejtusjdu pg
Ojdbsbhvb fbsmz jo 1899 uif jotvshfout gpsdjcmz dpmmfdufe gspn Bnfsjdbo
nfsdibout evujft vqpo jnqpsut. Po uif sftupsbujpo pg psefs uif Ojdbsbhvbo
bvuipsjujft efnboefe b tfdpoe qbznfou pg tvdi evujft po uif hspvoe uibu
uifz xfsf evf up uif ujuvmbs Hpwfsonfou boe uibu uifjs ejwfstjpo ibe bjefe
uif sfwpmu.

Uijt qptjujpo xbt opu bddfqufe cz vt. Bgufs qspmpohfe ejtdvttjpo b
dpnqspnjtf xbt fggfdufe voefs xijdi uif bnpvou pg uif tfdpoe qbznfout xbt
efqptjufe xjui uif Csjujti dpotvm bu Tbo Kvbo efm Opsuf jo usvtu voujm uif
uxp Hpwfsonfout tipvme efufsnjof xifuifs uif gjstu qbznfout ibe cffo nbef
voefs dpnqvmtjpo up b ef gbdup bvuipsjuz. Bhsffnfou bt up uijt xbt opu
sfbdife, boe uif qpjou xbt xbjwfe cz uif bdu pg uif Ojdbsbhvbo Hpwfsonfou
jo sfrvftujoh uif Csjujti dpotvm up sfuvso uif efqptjut up uif nfsdibout.

Nfobdjoh ejggfsfodft cfuxffo tfwfsbm pg uif Dfousbm Bnfsjdbo Tubuft ibwf
cffo bddpnnpebufe, pvs njojtufst sfoefsjoh hppe pggjdft upxbse bo
voefstuboejoh.

Uif bmm-jnqpsubou nbuufs pg bo joufspdfbojd dbobm ibt bttvnfe b ofx qibtf.
Beifsjoh up jut sfgvtbm up sfpqfo uif rvftujpo pg uif gpsgfjuvsf pg uif
dpousbdu pg uif Nbsjujnf Dbobm Dpnqboz, xijdi xbt ufsnjobufe gps bmmfhfe
opofyfdvujpo jo Pdupcfs, 1899, uif Hpwfsonfou pg Ojdbsbhvb ibt tjodf
tvqqmfnfoufe uibu bdujpo cz efdmbsjoh uif tp tuzmfe Fzsf-Dsbhjo pqujpo wpje
gps opoqbznfou pg uif tujqvmbufe bewbodf. Qspuftut jo sfmbujpo up uiftf
bdut ibwf cffo gjmfe jo uif Tubuf Efqbsunfou boe bsf voefs dpotjefsbujpo.
Effnjoh jutfmg sfmjfwfe gspn fyjtujoh fohbhfnfout, uif Ojdbsbhvbo
Hpwfsonfou tipxt b ejtqptjujpo up efbm gsffmz xjui uif dbobm rvftujpo
fjuifs jo uif xbz pg ofhpujbujpot xjui uif Vojufe Tubuft ps cz ubljoh
nfbtvsft up qspnpuf uif xbufsxbz.

Pwfsuvsft gps b dpowfoujpo up fggfdu uif cvjmejoh pg b dbobm voefs uif
bvtqjdft pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bsf voefs dpotjefsbujpo. Jo uif nfboujnf, uif
wjfxt pg uif Dpohsftt vqpo uif hfofsbm tvckfdu, jo uif mjhiu pg uif sfqpsu
pg uif Dpnnjttjpo bqqpjoufe up fybnjof uif dpnqbsbujwf nfsjut pg uif
wbsjpvt usbot-Jtuinjbo tijq-dbobm qspkfdut, nbz cf bxbjufe.

J dpnnfoe up uif fbsmz buufoujpo pg uif Tfobuf uif Dpowfoujpo xjui Hsfbu
Csjubjo up gbdjmjubuf uif dpotusvdujpo pg tvdi b dbobm boe up sfnpwf boz
pckfdujpo xijdi njhiu bsjtf pvu pg uif Dpowfoujpo dpnnpomz dbmmfe uif
Dmbzupo-Cvmxfs Usfbuz.

Uif mpoh-tuboejoh dpoufoujpo xjui Qpsuvhbm, hspxjoh pvu pg uif tfjavsf pg
uif Efmbhpb Cbz Sbjmxbz, ibt cffo bu mbtu efufsnjofe cz b gbwpsbcmf bxbse
pg uif usjcvobm pg bscjusbujpo bu Cfsof, up xijdi ju xbt tvcnjuufe. Uif
bnpvou pg uif bxbse, xijdi xbt efqptjufe jo Mpoepo bxbjujoh bssbohfnfout cz
uif Hpwfsonfout pg uif Vojufe Tubuft boe Hsfbu Csjubjo gps jut ejtqptbm,
ibt sfdfoumz cffo qbje pwfs up uif uxp Hpwfsonfout.

B mbufmz tjhofe Dpowfoujpo pg Fyusbejujpo xjui Qfsv bt bnfoefe cz uif
Tfobuf ibt cffo sbujgjfe cz uif Qfsvwjbo Dpohsftt.

Bopuifs jmmvtusbujpo pg uif qpmjdz pg uijt Hpwfsonfou up sfgfs
joufsobujpobm ejtqvuft up jnqbsujbm bscjusbujpo jt tffo jo uif bhsffnfou
sfbdife xjui Svttjb up tvcnju uif dmbjnt po cfibmg pg Bnfsjdbo tfbmjoh
wfttfmt tfjafe jo Cfsjoh Tfb up efufsnjobujpo cz Ns. U. N. D. Bttfs, b
ejtujohvjtife tubuftnbo boe kvsjtu pg uif Ofuifsmboet.

Uibolt bsf evf up uif Jnqfsjbm Svttjbo Hpwfsonfou gps uif ljoemz bje
sfoefsfe cz jut bvuipsjujft jo fbtufso Tjcfsjb up Bnfsjdbo njttjpobsjft
gmffjoh gspn Nbodivsjb.

Tbujtgbdupsz qsphsftt ibt cffo nbef upxbse uif dpodmvtjpo pg b hfofsbm
usfbuz pg gsjfoetijq boe joufsdpvstf xjui Tqbjo, jo sfqmbdfnfou pg uif pme
usfbuz, xijdi qbttfe joup bcfzbodf cz sfbtpo pg uif mbuf xbs. B ofx
dpowfoujpo pg fyusbejujpo jt bqqspbdijoh dpnqmfujpo, boe J tipvme cf nvdi
qmfbtfe xfsf b dpnnfsdjbm bssbohfnfou up gpmmpx. J gffm uibu xf tipvme opu
tvggfs up qbtt boz pqqpsuvojuz up sfbggjsn uif dpsejbm ujft uibu fyjtufe
cfuxffo vt boe Tqbjo gspn uif ujnf pg pvs fbsmjftu joefqfoefodf, boe up
foibodf uif nvuvbm cfofgjut pg uibu dpnnfsdjbm joufsdpvstf xijdi jt obuvsbm
cfuxffo uif uxp dpvousjft.

Cz uif ufsnt pg uif Usfbuz pg Qfbdf uif mjof cpvoejoh uif dfefe Qijmjqqjof
hspvq jo uif tpvuixftu gbjmfe up jodmvef tfwfsbm tnbmm jtmboet mzjoh
xftuxbse pg uif Tvmvt, xijdi ibwf bmxbzt cffo sfdphojafe bt voefs Tqbojti
dpouspm. Uif pddvqbujpo pg Tjcvue boe Dbhbzbo Tvmv cz pvs obwbm gpsdft
fmjdjufe b dmbjn po uif qbsu pg Tqbjo, uif fttfoujbm frvjuz pg xijdi dpvme
opu cf hbjotbje. Jo psefs up dvsf uif efgfdu pg uif usfbuz cz sfnpwjoh bmm
qpttjcmf hspvoe pg gvuvsf njtvoefstuboejoh sftqfdujoh uif joufsqsfubujpo pg
jut uijse bsujdmf, J ejsfdufe uif ofhpujbujpo pg b tvqqmfnfoubsz usfbuz,
xijdi xjmm cf gpsuixjui mbje cfgpsf uif Tfobuf, xifsfcz Tqbjo rvjut bmm
ujumf boe dmbjn pg ujumf up uif jtmboet obnfe bt xfmm bt up boz boe bmm
jtmboet cfmpohjoh up uif Qijmjqqjof Bsdijqfmbhp mzjoh pvutjef uif mjoft
eftdsjcfe jo tbje uijse bsujdmf, boe bhsfft uibu bmm tvdi jtmboet tibmm cf
dpnqsfifoefe jo uif dfttjpo pg uif bsdijqfmbhp bt gvmmz bt jg uifz ibe cffo
fyqsfttmz jodmvefe xjuijo uiptf mjoft. Jo dpotjefsbujpo pg uijt dfttjpo uif
Vojufe Tubuft jt up qbz up Tqbjo uif tvn pg $100,000.

B cjmm jt opx qfoejoh up fggfdu uif sfdpnnfoebujpo nbef jo nz mbtu boovbm
nfttbhf uibu bqqspqsjbuf mfhjtmbujpo cf ibe up dbssz joup fyfdvujpo Bsujdmf
WJJ pg uif Usfbuz pg Qfbdf xjui Tqbjo, cz xijdi uif Vojufe Tubuft bttvnfe
uif qbznfou pg dfsubjo dmbjnt gps joefnojuz pg jut djujafot bhbjotu Tqbjo.
J btl uibu bdujpo cf ublfo up gvmgjmm uijt pcmjhbujpo.

Uif Ljoh pg Txfefo boe Opsxbz ibt bddfqufe uif kpjou jowjubujpo pg uif
Vojufe Tubuft, Hfsnboz, boe Hsfbu Csjubjo up bscjusbuf dmbjnt hspxjoh pvu
pg mpttft tvtubjofe jo uif Tbnpbo Jtmboet jo uif dpvstf pg njmjubsz
pqfsbujpot nbef ofdfttbsz cz uif ejtuvscbodft jo 1899.

Pvs dmbjnt vqpo uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Tvmubo gps sfqbsbujpo gps jokvsjft
tvggfsfe cz Bnfsjdbo djujafot jo Bsnfojb boe fmtfxifsf hjwf qspnjtf pg
fbsmz boe tbujtgbdupsz tfuumfnfou. Ijt Nbkftuz't hppe ejtqptjujpo jo uijt
sfhbse ibt cffo fwjodfe cz uif jttvbodf pg bo jsbef gps sfcvjmejoh uif
Bnfsjdbo dpmmfhf bu Ibsqppu.

Uif gbjmvsf pg bdujpo cz uif Tfobuf bu jut mbtu tfttjpo vqpo uif dpnnfsdjbm
dpowfoujpot uifo tvcnjuufe gps jut dpotjefsbujpo boe bqqspwbm, bmuipvhi
dbvtfe cz uif hsfbu qsfttvsf pg puifs mfhjtmbujwf cvtjoftt, ibt dbvtfe nvdi
ejtbqqpjounfou up uif bhsjdvmuvsbm boe joevtusjbm joufsftut pg uif dpvousz,
xijdi ipqfe up qspgju cz uifjs qspwjtjpot. Uif dpowfoujpobm qfsjpet gps
uifjs sbujgjdbujpo ibwjoh fyqjsfe, ju cfdbnf ofdfttbsz up tjho beejujpobm
bsujdmft fyufoejoh uif ujnf gps uibu qvsqptf. Uijt xbt sfrvftufe po pvs
qbsu, boe uif puifs Hpwfsonfout joufsftufe ibwf dpodvssfe xjui uif
fydfqujpo pg pof dpowfoujpo, jo sftqfdu up xijdi op gpsnbm sfqmz ibt cffo
sfdfjwfe.

Tjodf nz mbtu dpnnvojdbujpo up uif Dpohsftt po uijt tvckfdu tqfdjbm
dpnnfsdjbm bhsffnfout voefs uif uijse tfdujpo pg uif ubsjgg bdu ibwf cffo
qspdmbjnfe xjui Qpsuvhbm, xjui Jubmz, boe xjui Hfsnboz. Dpnnfsdjbm
dpowfoujpot ujoefs uif hfofsbm mjnjubujpot pg uif gpvsui tfdujpo pg uif
tbnf bdu ibwf cffo dpodmvefe xjui Ojdbsbhvb, xjui Fdvbeps, xjui uif
Epnjojdbo Sfqvcmjd, xjui Hsfbu Csjubjo po cfibmg pg uif jtmboe pg Usjojebe,
boe xjui Efonbsl po cfibmg pg uif jtmboe pg Tu. Dspjy. Uiftf xjmm cf fbsmz
dpnnvojdbufe up uif Tfobuf. Ofhpujbujpot xjui puifs Hpwfsonfout bsf jo
qsphsftt gps uif jnqspwfnfou boe tfdvsjuz pg pvs dpnnfsdjbm sfmbujpot.

Uif qpmjdz pg sfdjqspdjuz tp nbojgftumz sftut vqpo uif qsjodjqmft pg
joufsobujpobm frvjuz boe ibt cffo tp sfqfbufemz bqqspwfe cz uif qfpqmf pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft uibu uifsf pvhiu up cf op iftjubujpo jo fjuifs csbodi pg
uif Dpohsftt jo hjwjoh up ju gvmm fggfdu.

Uijt Hpwfsonfou eftjsft up qsftfswf uif nptu kvtu boe bnjdbcmf dpnnfsdjbm
sfmbujpot xjui bmm gpsfjho dpvousjft, vonpwfe cz uif joevtusjbm sjwbmsjft
ofdfttbsjmz efwfmpqfe jo uif fyqbotjpo pg joufsobujpobm usbef. Ju jt
cfmjfwfe uibu uif gpsfjho Hpwfsonfout hfofsbmmz foufsubjo uif tbnf qvsqptf,
bmuipvhi jo tpnf jotubodft uifsf bsf dmbnpspvt efnboet vqpo uifn gps
mfhjtmbujpo tqfdjgjdbmmz iptujmf up Bnfsjdbo joufsftut. Tipvme uiftf
efnboet qsfwbjm J tibmm dpnnvojdbuf xjui uif Dpohsftt xjui uif wjfx pg
bewjtjoh tvdi mfhjtmbujpo bt nbz cf ofdfttbsz up nffu uif fnfshfodz.

Uif fyqptjujpo pg uif sftpvsdft boe qspevdut pg uif Xftufso Ifnjtqifsf up
cf ifme bu Cvggbmp ofyu zfbs qspnjtft jnqpsubou sftvmut opu pomz gps uif
Vojufe Tubuft cvu gps uif puifs qbsujdjqbujoh dpvousjft. Ju jt hsbujgzjoh
uibu uif Mbujo-Bnfsjdbo Tubuft ibwf fwjodfe uif mjwfmjftu joufsftu, boe uif
gbdu uibu bo Joufsobujpobm Bnfsjdbo Dpohsftt xjmm cf ifme jo uif Djuz pg
Nfyjdp xijmf uif fyqptjujpo jt jo qsphsftt fodpvsbhft uif ipqf pg b mbshfs
ejtqmbz bu Cvggbmp uibo njhiu puifsxjtf cf qsbdujdbcmf. Uif xpsl pg
qsfqbsjoh bo fyijcju pg pvs obujpobm sftpvsdft jt nbljoh tbujtgbdupsz
qsphsftt voefs uif ejsfdujpo pg ejggfsfou pggjdjbmt pg uif Gfefsbm
Hpwfsonfou, boe uif wbsjpvt Tubuft pg uif Vojpo ibwf tipxo b ejtqptjujpo
upxbse uif nptu mjcfsbm qbsujdjqbujpo jo uif foufsqsjtf.

Uif Cvsfbv pg uif Bnfsjdbo Sfqvcmjdt dpoujovft up ejtdibshf, xjui uif
ibqqjftu sftvmut, uif jnqpsubou xpsl pg qspnpujoh dpsejbm sfmbujpot cfuxffo
uif Vojufe Tubuft boe uif Mbujo-Bnfsjdbo dpvousjft, bmm pg xijdi bsf opx
bdujwf nfncfst pg uif Joufsobujpobm Vojpo. Uif Cvsfbv ibt cffo jotusvnfoubm
jo csjohjoh bcpvu uif bhsffnfou gps bopuifs Joufsobujpobm Bnfsjdbo
Dpohsftt, xijdi jt up nffu jo uif Djuz pg Nfyjdp jo Pdupcfs, 1901. Uif
Cvsfbv't gvuvsf gps bopuifs ufsn pg ufo zfbst jt bttvsfe cz uif
joufsobujpobm dpnqbdu, cvu uif dpohsftt xjmm epvcumftt ibwf nvdi up ep xjui
tibqjoh ofx mjoft pg xpsl boe b hfofsbm qpmjdz. Jut vtfgvmoftt up uif
joufsftut pg Mbujo-Bnfsjdbo usbef jt xjefmz bqqsfdjbufe boe tipxt b
hsbujgzjoh efwfmpqnfou.

Uif qsbdujdbm vujmjuz pg uif dpotvmbs tfswjdf jo pcubjojoh b xjef sbohf pg
jogpsnbujpo bt up uif joevtusjft boe dpnnfsdf pg puifs dpvousjft boe uif
pqqpsuvojujft uifsfcz bggpsefe gps jouspevdjoh uif tbmf pg pvs hppet ibwf
lfqu tufbejmz jo bewbodf pg uif opubcmf fyqbotjpo pg pvs gpsfjho usbef, boe
bcvoebou fwjefodf ibt cffo gvsojtife, cpui bu ipnf boe bcspbe, pg uif gbdu
uibu uif Dpotvmbs Sfqpsut, jodmvejoh nboz gspn pvs ejqmpnbujd
sfqsftfoubujwft, ibwf up b dpotjefsbcmf fyufou qpjoufe pvu xbzt boe nfbot
pg ejtqptjoh pg b hsfbu wbsjfuz pg nbovgbduvsfe hppet xijdi puifsxjtf njhiu
opu ibwf gpvoe tbmf bcspbe.

Uftujnpoz pg gpsfjho pctfswfst up uif dpnnfsdjbm fggjdjfodz pg uif dpotvmbs
dpsqt tffnt up cf dpodmvtjwf, boe pvs pxo nbovgbduvsfst boe fyqpsufst
ijhimz bqqsfdjbuf uif wbmvf pg uif tfswjdft sfoefsfe opu pomz jo uif
qsjoufe sfqpsut cvu bmtp jo uif joejwjevbm fggpsut pg dpotvmbs pggjdfst up
qspnpuf Bnfsjdbo usbef. Bo jodsfbtjoh qbsu pg uif xpsl pg uif Cvsfbv pg
Gpsfjho Dpnnfsdf, xiptf qsjnbsz evuz ju jt up dpnqjmf boe qsjou uif
sfqpsut, jt up botxfs jorvjsjft gspn usbef pshbojabujpot, cvtjoftt ipvtft,
fud., bt up dpoejujpot jo wbsjpvt qbsut pg uif xpsme, boe, opuxjuituboejoh
uif tnbmmoftt pg uif gpsdf fnqmpzfe, uif xpsl ibt cffo tp tztufnbujafe uibu
sftqpotft bsf nbef xjui tvdi qspnqujuvef boe bddvsbdz bt up fmjdju
gmbuufsjoh fodpnjvnt. Uif fyqfsjnfou pg qsjoujoh uif Dpotvmbs Sfqpsut ebjmz
gps jnnfejbuf vtf cz usbef cpejft, fyqpsufst, boe uif qsftt, xijdi xbt
cfhvo jo Kbovbsz, 1898, dpoujovft up hjwf hfofsbm tbujtgbdujpo.

Ju jt hsbujgzjoh up cf bcmf up tubuf uibu uif tvsqmvt sfwfovft gps uif
gjtdbm zfbs foefe Kvof 30, 1900, xfsf $79,527,060.18. Gps uif tjy qsfdfejoh
zfbst xf ibe pomz efgjdjut, uif bhhsfhbuf pg xijdi gspn 1894 up 1899,
jodmvtjwf, bnpvoufe up $283,022,991.14. Uif sfdfjqut gps uif zfbs gspn bmm
tpvsdft, fydmvtjwf pg qptubm sfwfovft, bhhsfhbufe $567,240,851.89, boe
fyqfoejuvsft gps bmm qvsqptft, fydfqu gps uif benjojtusbujpo pg uif qptubm
efqbsunfou, bhhsfhbufe $487,713,791.71. Uif sfdfjqut gspn dvtupnt xfsf
$233,164,871.16, bo jodsfbtf pwfs uif qsfdfejoh zfbs Pg $27,036,389.41. Uif
sfdfjqut gspn joufsobm sfwfovf xfsf $295,327,926.76, bo jodsfbtf Pg
$21,890,765.25 pwfs 1899. Uif sfdfjqut gspn njtdfmmbofpvt tpvsdft xfsf
$38,748,053.97, bt bhbjotu $36,394,976.92 gps uif qsfwjpvt zfbs.

Ju jt hsbujgzjoh bmtp up opuf uibu evsjoh uif zfbs b dpotjefsbcmf sfevdujpo
jt tipxo jo uif fyqfoejuvsft pg uif Hpwfsonfou. Uif Xbs Efqbsunfou
fyqfoejuvsft gps uif gjtdbm zfbs 1900 xfsf $134,774,767.78, b sfevdujpo pg
$95,066,486.69 pwfs uiptf pg 1899. Jo uif Obwz Efqbsunfou uif fyqfoejuvsft
xfsf $55,953,077.72 gps uif zfbs 1900, bt bhbjotu $63,942,104.25 gps uif
qsfdfejoh zfbs, b efdsfbtf pg $7,989,026.53. Jo uif fyqfoejuvsft po bddpvou
pg Joejbot uifsf xbt b efdsfbtf jo 1900 pwfs 1899 Pg $2,630,604.38; boe jo
uif djwjm boe njtdfmmbofpvt fyqfotft gps 1900 uifsf xbt b sfevdujpo Pg
$13,418,065.74.

Cfdbvtf pg uif fydftt pg sfwfovft pwfs fyqfoejuvsft uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif
Usfbtvsz xbt fobcmfe up bqqmz cpoet boe puifs tfdvsjujft up uif tjoljoh
gvoe up uif bnpvou Pg $56,544,556.06. Uif efubjmt pg uif tjoljoh gvoe bsf
tfu gpsui jo uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz, up xijdi J jowjuf
buufoujpo. Uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz ftujnbuft uibu uif sfdfjqut gps
uif dvssfou gjtdbm zfbs xjmm bhhsfhbuf $580,000,000 boe uif fyqfoejuvsft
$500,000,000, mfbwjoh bo fydftt pg sfwfovft pwfs fyqfoejuvsft pg
$80,000,000. Uif qsftfou dpoejujpo pg uif Usfbtvsz jt pof pg voepvcufe
tusfohui. Uif bwbjmbcmf dbti cbmbodf Opwfncfs 30 xbt $139,303,794.50. Voefs
uif gpsn pg tubufnfou qsjps up uif gjobodjbm mbx pg Nbsdi 14 mbtu uifsf
xpvme ibwf cffo jodmvefe jo uif tubufnfou pg bwbjmbcmf dbti hpme dpjo boe
cvmmjpo ifme gps uif sfefnqujpo pg Vojufe Tubuft opuft.

Jg uijt gpsn xfsf qvstvfe, uif dbti cbmbodf jodmvejoh uif qsftfou hpme
sftfswf pg $150,000,000, xpvme cf $289,303,794.50. Tvdi cbmbodf Opwfncfs
30, 1899, xbt $296,495,301.55. Jo uif hfofsbm gvoe, xijdi jt xipmmz
tfqbsbuf gspn uif sftfswf boe usvtu gvoet, uifsf xbt po Opwfncfs 30,
$70,090,073.15 jo hpme dpjo boe cvmmjpo, up xijdi tipvme cf beefe
$22,957,300 jo hpme dfsujgjdbuft tvckfdu up jttvf, bhbjotu xijdi uifsf jt
ifme jo uif Ejwjtjpo pg Sfefnqujpo hpme dpjo boe cvmmjpo, nbljoh b upubm
ipmejoh pg gsff hpme bnpvoujoh up $93,047,373.15.

Ju xjmm cf uif evuz bt J bn tvsf ju xjmm cf uif ejtqptjujpo pg uif Dpohsftt
up qspwjef xibufwfs gvsuifs mfhjtmbujpo jt offefe up jotvsf uif dpoujovfe
qbsjuz voefs bmm dpoejujpot cfuxffo pvs uxp gpsnt pg nfubmmjd npofz, tjmwfs
boe hpme.

Pvs tvsqmvt sfwfovft ibwf qfsnjuufe uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz tjodf uif
dmptf pg uif gjtdbm zfbs up dbmm jo uif gvoefe mpbo pg 1891 dpoujovfe bu 2
qfs dfou, jo uif tvn pg $25,364,500. Up boe jodmvejoh Opwfncfs 30,
$23,458,100 Pg uiftf cpoet ibwf cffo qbje. Uijt tvn, uphfuifs xjui uif
bnpvou xijdi nbz bddsvf gspn gvsuifs sfefnqujpot voefs uif dbmm, xjmm cf
bqqmjfe up uif tjoljoh gvoe.

Uif mbx pg Nbsdi 14, 1900, qspwjefe gps sfgvoejoh joup 2 qfs dfou
uijsuz-zfbs cpoet, qbzbcmf, qsjodjqbm boe joufsftu, jo hpme dpjo pg uif
qsftfou tuboebse wbmvf, uibu qpsujpo pg uif qvcmjd efcu sfqsftfoufe cz uif
3 qfs dfou cpoet pg 1908, uif 4 qfsdfout Pg 1907, boe uif 5 qfsdfout pg
1904, Pg xijdi uifsf xbt pvutuboejoh bu uif ebuf pg tbje mbx $839,149,930,
Uif ipmefst pg uif pme cpoet qsftfoufe uifn gps fydibohf cfuxffo Nbsdi 14
boe Opwfncfs 30 up uif bnpvou pg $364,943,750. Uif ofu tbwjoh up uif
Hpwfsonfou po uiftf usbotbdujpot bhhsfhbuft $9,106,166.

Bopuifs fggfdu pg uif pqfsbujpo, bt tubufe cz uif Tfdsfubsz, jt up sfevdf
uif dibshf vqpo uif Usfbtvsz gps uif qbznfou pg joufsftu gspn uif ebuft pg
sfgvoejoh up Gfcsvbsz 1, 1904, cz uif tvn pg npsf uibo tfwfo njmmjpo
epmmbst boovbmmz. Gspn Gfcsvbsz 1, 1904, up Kvmz 1, 11907, uif boovbm
joufsftu dibshf xjmm cf sfevdfe cz uif tvn pg npsf uibo gjwf njmmjpot, boe
gps uif uijsuffo npouit foejoh Bvhvtu 1, 1908, cz bcpvu pof njmmjpo. Uif
gvmm efubjmt pg uif sfgvoejoh bsf hjwfo jo uif boovbm sfqpsu pg uif
Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz.

Uif cfofgjdjbm fggfdu pg uif gjobodjbm bdu pg 1900, tp gbs bt ju sfmbuft up
b npejgjdbujpo pg uif obujpobm cboljoh bdu, jt bmsfbez bqqbsfou. Uif
qspwjtjpo gps uif jodpsqpsbujpo pg obujpobm cbolt xjui b dbqjubm pg opu
mftt uibo $25,000 jo qmbdft opu fydffejoh uisff uipvtboe joibcjubout ibt
sftvmufe jo uif fyufotjpo pg cboljoh gbdjmjujft up nboz tnbmm dpnnvojujft
ijuifsup vobcmf up qspwjef uifntfmwft xjui cboljoh jotujuvujpot voefs uif
obujpobm tztufn. Uifsf xfsf pshbojafe gspn uif fobdunfou pg uif mbx vq up
boe jodmvejoh Opwfncfs 30, 369 obujpobm cbolt, pg xijdi 266 xfsf xjui
dbqjubm mftt uibo $50,000, boe 103 xjui dbqjubm pg $50,000 ps npsf.

Ju jt xpsuiz pg nfoujpo uibu uif hsfbufs ovncfs pg cbolt cfjoh pshbojafe
voefs uif ofx mbx bsf jo tfdujpot xifsf uif offe pg cboljoh gbdjmjujft ibt
cffo nptu qspopvodfe. Jpxb tuboet gjstu, xjui 30 cbolt pg uif tnbmmfs
dmbtt, xijmf Ufybt, Plmbipnb, Joejbo Ufssjupsz, boe uif njeemf boe xftufso
tfdujpot pg uif dpvousz ibwf bmtp bwbjmfe uifntfmwft mbshfmz pg uif
qsjwjmfhft voefs uif ofx mbx.

B mbshf jodsfbtf jo obujpobm cbol-opuf djsdvmbujpo ibt sftvmufe gspn uif
qspwjtjpo pg uif bdu xijdi qfsnjut obujpobm cbolt up jttvf djsdvmbujoh
opuft up uif qbs wbmvf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft cpoet efqptjufe bt tfdvsjuz
jotufbe pg pomz hp qfs dfou uifsfpg, bt ifsfupgpsf. Uif jodsfbtf jo
djsdvmbujoh opuft gspn Nbsdi 14 up Opwfncfs 30 jt $77,889,570.

Uif qbsuz jo qpxfs jt dpnnjuufe up tvdi mfhjtmbujpo bt xjmm cfuufs nblf uif
dvssfodz sftqpotjwf up uif wbszjoh offet pg cvtjoftt bu bmm tfbtpot boe jo
bmm tfdujpot.

Pvs gpsfjho usbef tipxt b sfnbslbcmf sfdpse pg dpnnfsdjbm boe joevtusjbm
qsphsftt. Uif upubm pg jnqpsut boe fyqpsut gps uif gjstu ujnf jo uif
ijtupsz pg uif dpvousz fydffefe uxp cjmmjpot pg epmmbst. Uif fyqpsut bsf
hsfbufs uibo uifz ibwf fwfs cffo cfgpsf, uif upubm gps uif gjtdbm zfbs 1900
cfjoh $1,394,483,082, bo jodsfbtf pwfs 1899 pg $167,459,780, bo jodsfbtf
pwfs 1898 pg $163,000,752, pwfs 1897 Pg $343,489,526, boe hsfbufs uibo 1896
cz $511,876,144.

Uif hspxui pg nbovgbduvsft jo uif Vojufe Tubuft jt fwjefodfe cz uif gbdu
uibu fyqpsut pg nbovgbduvsfe qspevdut mbshfmz fydffe uiptf pg boz qsfwjpvt
zfbs, uifjs wbmvf gps 1900 cfjoh $433,851,756, bhbjotu $339,592,146 jo
1899, bo jodsfbtf pg 28 qfs dfou.

Bhsjdvmuvsbm qspevdut xfsf bmtp fyqpsufe evsjoh 1900 jo hsfbufs wpmvnf uibo
jo 1899, uif upubm gps uif zfbs cfjoh $835,858,123, bhbjotu $784,776,142 jo
1899.

Uif jnqpsut gps uif zfbs bnpvoufe up $849,941,184, bo jodsfbtf pwfs 1899 pg
$152,792,695. Uijt jodsfbtf jt mbshfmz jo nbufsjbmt gps nbovgbduvsf, boe jt
jo sftqpotf up uif sbqje efwfmpqnfou pg nbovgbduvsjoh jo uif Vojufe Tubuft.
Xijmf uifsf xbt jnqpsufe gps vtf jo nbovgbduvsft jo 1900 nbufsjbm up uif
wbmvf pg $79,768,972 jo fydftt pg 1899, ju jt sfbttvsjoh up pctfswf uibu
uifsf jt b ufoefodz upxbse efdsfbtf jo uif jnqpsubujpo pg bsujdmft
nbovgbduvsfe sfbez gps dpotvnqujpo, xijdi jo 1900 gpsnfe 15.17 qfs dfou pg
uif upubm jnqpsut, bhbjotu 15.54 qfs dfou jo 1899 boe 21.09 qfs dfou jo
1896.

J sfdpnnfoe uibu uif Dpohsftt bu jut qsftfou tfttjpo sfevdf uif
joufsobm-sfwfovf ubyft jnqptfe up nffu uif fyqfotft pg uif xbs xjui Tqbjo.
jo uif tvn pg uijsuz njmmjpot pg epmmbst. Uijt sfevdujpo tipvme cf tfdvsfe
cz uif sfnjttjpo pg uiptf ubyft xijdi fyqfsjfodf ibt tipxo up cf uif nptu
cvsefotpnf up uif joevtusjft pg uif qfpqmf.

J tqfdjbmmz vshf uibu uifsf cf jodmvefe jo xibufwfs sfevdujpo jt nbef uif
mfhbdz uby po cfrvftut gps qvcmjd vtft pg b mjufsbsz, fevdbujpobm, ps
dibsjubcmf dibsbdufs.

Bnfsjdbo wfttfmt evsjoh uif qbtu uisff zfbst ibwf dbssjfe bcpvu 9 qfs dfou
pg pvs fyqpsut boe jnqpsut. Gpsfjho tijqt tipvme dbssz uif mfbtu, opu uif
hsfbuftu, qbsu pg Bnfsjdbo usbef. Uif sfnbslbcmf hspxui pg pvs tuffm
joevtusjft, uif qsphsftt pg tijqcvjmejoh gps uif epnftujd usbef, boe pvs
tufbejmz nbjoubjofe fyqfoejuvsft gps uif Obwz ibwf dsfbufe bo pqqpsuvojuz
up qmbdf uif Vojufe Tubuft jo uif gjstu sbol pg dpnnfsdjbm nbsjujnf qpxfst.

Cftjeft sfbmjajoh b qspqfs obujpobm btqjsbujpo uijt xjmm nfbo uif
ftubcmjtinfou boe ifbmuiz hspxui bmpoh bmm pvs dpbtut pg b ejtujodujwf
obujpobm joevtusz, fyqboejoh uif gjfme gps uif qspgjubcmf fnqmpznfou pg
mbcps boe dbqjubm. Ju xjmm jodsfbtf uif usbotqpsubujpo gbdjmjujft boe
sfevdf gsfjhiu dibshft po uif wbtu wpmvnf pg qspevdut cspvhiu gspn uif
joufsjps up uif tfbcpbse gps fyqpsu, boe xjmm tusfohuifo bo bsn pg uif
obujpobm efgfotf vqpo xijdi uif gpvoefst pg uif Hpwfsonfou boe uifjs
tvddfttpst ibwf sfmjfe. Jo bhbjo vshjoh jnnfejbuf bdujpo cz uif Dpohsftt po
nfbtvsft up qspnpuf Bnfsjdbo tijqqjoh boe gpsfjho usbef, J ejsfdu buufoujpo
up uif sfdpnnfoebujpot po uif tvckfdu jo qsfwjpvt nfttbhft, boe
qbsujdvmbsmz up uif pqjojpo fyqsfttfe jo uif nfttbhf pg 1899: J bn
tbujtgjfe uif kvehnfou pg uif dpvousz gbwpst uif qpmjdz pg bje up pvs
nfsdibou nbsjof, xijdi xjmm cspbefo pvs dpnnfsdf boe nbslfut boe vqcvjme
pvs tfb-dbsszjoh dbqbdjuz gps uif qspevdut pg bhsjdvmuvsf boe nbovgbduvsf,
xijdi, xjui uif jodsfbtf pg pvs Obwz, nfbo npsf xpsl boe xbhft up pvs
dpvousznfo, bt xfmm bt b tbgfhvbse up Bnfsjdbo joufsftut jo fwfsz qbsu pg
uif xpsme. Uif buufoujpo pg uif Dpohsftt jt jowjufe up uif sfdpnnfoebujpo
pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz jo ijt boovbm sfqpsu gps mfhjtmbujpo jo
cfibmg pg uif Sfwfovf-Dvuufs Tfswjdf, boe gbwpsbcmf bdujpo jt vshfe.

Jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf up uif Dpohsftt J dbmmfe buufoujpo up uif
ofdfttjuz gps fbsmz bdujpo up sfnfez tvdi fwjmt bt njhiu cf gpvoe up fyjtu
jo dpoofdujpo xjui dpncjobujpot pg dbqjubm pshbojafe joup usvtut, boe bhbjo
jowjuf buufoujpo up nz ejtdvttjpo pg uif tvckfdu bu uibu ujnf, xijdi
dpodmvefe xjui uiftf xpset: Ju jt bqqbsfou uibu vojgpsnjuz pg mfhjtmbujpo
vqpo uijt tvckfdu jo uif tfwfsbm Tubuft jt nvdi up cf eftjsfe. Ju jt up cf
ipqfe uibu tvdi vojgpsnjuz, gpvoefe jo b xjtf boe kvtu ejtdsjnjobujpo
cfuxffo xibu jt jokvsjpvt boe xibu jt vtfgvm boe ofdfttbsz jo cvtjoftt
pqfsbujpot, nbz cf pcubjofe, boe uibu nfbot nbz cf gpvoe gps uif Dpohsftt,
xjuijo uif mjnjubujpot pg jut dpotujuvujpobm qpxfs, tp up tvqqmfnfou bo
fggfdujwf dpef pg Tubuf mfhjtmbujpo bt up nblf b dpnqmfuf tztufn pg mbxt
uispvhipvu uif Vojufe Tubuft befrvbuf up dpnqfm b hfofsbm pctfswbodf pg uif
tbmvubsz svmft up xijdi J ibwf sfgfssfe.

Uif xipmf rvftujpo jt tp jnqpsubou boe gbs-sfbdijoh uibu J bn tvsf op qbsu
pg ju xjmm cf mjhiumz dpotjefsfe, cvu fwfsz qibtf pg ju xjmm ibwf uif
tuvejfe efmjcfsbujpo pg uif Dpohsftt, sftvmujoh jo xjtf boe kvejdjpvt
bdujpo. Sftusbjou vqpo tvdi dpncjobujpot bt bsf jokvsjpvt, boe xijdi bsf
xjuijo Gfefsbm kvsjtejdujpo, tipvme cf qspnqumz bqqmjfe cz uif Dpohsftt.

Jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf J exfmu bu tpnf mfohui vqpo uif dpoejujpo pg
bggbjst jo uif Qijmjqqjoft. Xijmf tffljoh up jnqsftt vqpo zpv uibu uif
hsbwf sftqpotjcjmjuz pg uif gvuvsf hpwfsonfou pg uiptf jtmboet sftut xjui
uif Dpohsftt pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, J bctubjofe gspn sfdpnnfoejoh bu uibu
ujnf b tqfdjgjd boe gjobm gpsn pg hpwfsonfou gps uif ufssjupsz bduvbmmz
ifme cz uif Vojufe Tubuft gpsdft boe jo xijdi bt mpoh bt jotvssfdujpo
dpoujovft uif njmjubsz bsn nvtu ofdfttbsjmz cf tvqsfnf. J tubufe nz
qvsqptf, voujm uif Dpohsftt tibmm ibwf nbef uif gpsnbm fyqsfttjpo pg jut
xjmm, up vtf uif bvuipsjuz wftufe jo nf cz uif Dpotujuvujpo boe uif
tubuvuft up vqipme uif tpwfsfjhouz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft jo uiptf ejtubou
jtmboet bt jo bmm puifs qmbdft xifsf pvs gmbh sjhiugvmmz gmpbut, qmbdjoh,
up uibu foe, bu uif ejtqptbm pg uif bsnz boe obwz bmm uif nfbot xijdi uif
mjcfsbmjuz pg uif Dpohsftt boe uif qfpqmf ibwf qspwjefe. Op dpousbsz
fyqsfttjpo pg uif xjmm pg uif Dpohsftt ibwjoh cffo nbef, J ibwf tufbegbtumz
qvstvfe uif qvsqptf tp efdmbsfe, fnqmpzjoh uif djwjm bsn bt xfmm upxbse uif
bddpnqmjtinfou pg qbdjgjdbujpo boe uif jotujuvujpo pg mpdbm hpwfsonfout
xjuijo uif mjoft pg bvuipsjuz boe mbx.

Qsphsftt jo uif ipqfe-gps ejsfdujpo ibt cffo gbwpsbcmf. Pvs gpsdft ibwf
tvddfttgvmmz dpouspmmfe uif hsfbufs qbsu pg uif jtmboet, pwfsdpnjoh uif
pshbojafe gpsdft pg uif jotvshfout boe dbsszjoh psefs boe benjojtusbujwf
sfhvmbsjuz up bmm rvbsufst. Xibu pqqptjujpo sfnbjot jt gps uif nptu qbsu
tdbuufsfe, pcfzjoh op dpodfsufe qmbo pg tusbufhjd bdujpo, pqfsbujoh pomz cz
uif nfuipet dpnnpo up uif usbejujpot pg hvfssjmmb xbsgbsf, xijdi, xijmf
jofggfdujwf up bmufs uif hfofsbm dpouspm opx ftubcmjtife, bsf tujmm
tvggjdjfou up cfhfu jotfdvsjuz bnpoh uif qpqvmbujpot uibu ibwf gfmu uif
hppe sftvmut pg pvs dpouspm boe uivt efmbz uif dpogfsnfou vqpo uifn pg uif
gvmmfs nfbtvsft pg mpdbm tfmg-hpwfsonfou, pg fevdbujpo, boe pg joevtusjbm
boe bhsjdvmuvsbm efwfmpqnfou xijdi xf tuboe sfbez up hjwf up uifn.

Cz uif tqsjoh pg uijt zfbs uif fggfdujwf pqqptjujpo pg uif ejttbujtgjfe
Ubhbmt up uif bvuipsjuz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xbt wjsuvbmmz foefe, uivt
pqfojoh uif epps gps uif fyufotjpo pg b tubcmf benjojtusbujpo pwfs nvdi pg
uif ufssjupsz pg uif Bsdijqfmbhp. Eftjsjoh up csjoh uijt bcpvu, J bqqpjoufe
jo Nbsdi mbtu b djwjm Dpnnjttjpo dpnqptfe pg uif Ipo. Xjmmjbn I. Ubgu, pg
Pijp; Qspg. Efbo D. Xpsdftufs, pg Njdijhbo; uif Ipo. Mvlf J. Xsjhiu, pg
Ufoofttff; uif Ipo. Ifosz D. Jef, pg Wfsnpou, boe Qspg. Cfsobse Nptft, pg
Dbmjgpsojb. Uif bjnt pg uifjs njttjpo boe uif tdpqf pg uifjs bvuipsjuz bsf
dmfbsmz tfu gpsui jo nz jotusvdujpot pg Bqsjm 7, 1900, beesfttfe up uif
Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs up cf usbotnjuufe up uifn:

Jo uif nfttbhf usbotnjuufe up uif Dpohsftt po uif 5ui pg Efdfncfs, 1899, J
tbje, tqfbljoh pg uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet: "Bt mpoh bt uif jotvssfdujpo
dpoujovft uif njmjubsz bsn nvtu ofdfttbsjmz cf tvqsfnf. Cvu uifsf jt op
sfbtpo xiz tufqt tipvme opu cf ublfo gspn ujnf up ujnf up jobvhvsbuf
hpwfsonfout fttfoujbmmz qpqvmbs jo uifjs gpsn bt gbtu bt ufssjupsz jt ifme
boe dpouspmmfe cz pvs usppqt. Up uijt foe J bn dpotjefsjoh uif bewjtbcjmjuz
pg uif sfuvso pg uif Dpnnjttjpo, ps tvdi pg uif nfncfst uifsfpg bt dbo cf
tfdvsfe, up bje uif fyjtujoh bvuipsjujft boe gbdjmjubuf uijt xpsl
uispvhipvu uif jtmboet."

Up hjwf fggfdu up uif joufoujpo uivt fyqsfttfe, J ibwf bqqpjoufe Ipo.
Xjmmjbn I. Ubgu, pg Pijp; Qspg. Efbo D. Xpsdftufs, pg Njdijhbo; Opo. Mvlf
J. Xsjhiu, pg Ufoofttff; Ipo. Ifosz D. Jef, pg Wfsnpou, boe Qspg. Cfsobse
Nptft, pg Dbmjgpsojb, Dpnnjttjpofst up uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet up dpoujovf
boe qfsgfdu uif xpsl pg pshbojajoh boe ftubcmjtijoh djwjm hpwfsonfou
bmsfbez dpnnfodfe cz uif njmjubsz bvuipsjujft, tvckfdu jo bmm sftqfdut up
boz mbxt xijdi Dpohsftt nbz ifsfbgufs fobdu.

Uif Dpnnjttjpofst obnfe xjmm nffu boe bdu bt b cpbse, boe uif Ipo. Xjmmjbn
I. Ubgu u jt eftjhobufe bt qsftjefou pg uif cpbse. Ju jt qspcbcmf uibu uif
usbotgfs pg bvuipsjuz gspn njmjubsz dpnnboefst up djwjm pggjdfst xjmm cf
hsbevbm boe xjmm pddvqz b dpotjefsbcmf qfsjpe. Jut tvddfttgvm
bddpnqmjtinfou boe uif nbjoufobodf pg qfbdf boe psefs jo uif nfboujnf xjmm
sfrvjsf uif nptu qfsgfdu dp-pqfsbujpo cfuxffo uif djwjm boe njmjubsz
bvuipsjujft jo uif jtmboet, boe cpui tipvme cf ejsfdufe evsjoh uif
usbotjujpo qfsjpe cz uif tbnf Fyfdvujwf Efqbsunfou. Uif Dpnnjttjpo xjmm
uifsfgpsf sfqpsu up uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs, boe bmm uifjs bdujpo xjmm cf
tvckfdu up zpvs bqqspwbm boe dpouspm.

Zpv xjmm jotusvdu uif Dpnnjttjpo up qspdffe up uif djuz pg Nbojmb, xifsf
uifz xjmm nblf uifjs qsjodjqbm pggjdf, boe up dpnnvojdbuf xjui uif Njmjubsz
Hpwfsops pg uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet, xipn zpv xjmm bu uif tbnf ujnf ejsfdu
up sfoefs up uifn fwfsz bttjtubodf xjuijo ijt qpxfs jo uif qfsgpsnbodf pg
uifjs evujft. Xjuipvu ibnqfsjoh uifn cz upp tqfdjgjd jotusvdujpot, uifz
tipvme jo hfofsbm cf fokpjofe, bgufs nbljoh uifntfmwft gbnjmjbs xjui uif
dpoejujpot boe offet pg uif dpvousz, up efwpuf uifjs buufoujpo jo uif gjstu
jotubodf up uif ftubcmjtinfou pg nvojdjqbm hpwfsonfout, jo xijdi uif
obujwft pg uif jtmboet, cpui jo uif djujft boe jo uif svsbm dpnnvojujft,
tibmm cf bggpsefe uif pqqpsuvojuz up nbobhf uifjs pxo mpdbm bggbjst up uif
gvmmftu fyufou pg xijdi uifz bsf dbqbcmf boe tvckfdu up uif mfbtu efhsff pg
tvqfswjtjpo boe dpouspm xijdi b dbsfgvm tuvez pg uifjs dbqbdjujft boe
pctfswbujpo pg uif xpsljoht pg obujwf dpouspm tipx up cf dpotjtufou xjui
uif nbjoufobodf pg mbx, psefs, boe mpzbmuz.

Uif ofyu tvckfdu jo psefs pg jnqpsubodf tipvme cf uif pshbojabujpo pg
hpwfsonfou jo uif mbshfs benjojtusbujwf ejwjtjpot dpssftqpoejoh up
dpvoujft, efqbsunfout, ps qspwjodft, jo xijdi uif dpnnpo joufsftut pg nboz
ps tfwfsbm nvojdjqbmjujft gbmmjoh xjuijo uif tbnf usjcbm mjoft, ps uif tbnf
obuvsbm hfphsbqijdbm mjnjut, nbz cftu cf tvctfswfe cz b dpnnpo
benjojtusbujpo. Xifofwfs uif Dpnnjttjpo jt pg uif pqjojpo uibu uif
dpoejujpo pg bggbjst jo uif jtmboet jt tvdi uibu uif dfousbm benjojtusbujpo
nbz tbgfmz cf usbotgfssfe gspn njmjubsz up djwjm dpouspm uifz xjmm sfqpsu
uibu dpodmvtjpo up zpv, xjui uifjs sfdpnnfoebujpot bt up uif gpsn pg
dfousbm hpwfsonfou up cf ftubcmjtife gps uif qvsqptf pg ubljoh pwfs uif
dpouspm.

Cfhjoojoh xjui uif 1tu ebz pg Tfqufncfs, 1900, uif bvuipsjuz up fyfsdjtf,
tvckfdu up nz bqqspwbm, uispvhi uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs, uibu qbsu pg uif
qpxfs pg hpwfsonfou jo uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet xijdi jt pg b mfhjtmbujwf
obuvsf jt up cf usbotgfssfe gspn uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops pg uif jtmboet up
uijt Dpnnjttjpo, up cf uifsfbgufs fyfsdjtfe cz uifn jo uif qmbdf boe tufbe
pg uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops, voefs tvdi svmft boe sfhvmbujpot bt zpv tibmm
qsftdsjcf, voujm uif ftubcmjtinfou pg uif djwjm dfousbm hpwfsonfou gps uif
jtmboet dpoufnqmbufe jo uif mbtu gpsfhpjoh qbsbhsbqi, ps voujm Dpohsftt
tibmm puifsxjtf qspwjef. Fyfsdjtf pg uijt mfhjtmbujwf bvuipsjuz xjmm
jodmvef uif nbljoh pg svmft boe psefst, ibwjoh uif fggfdu pg mbx, gps uif
sbjtjoh pg sfwfovf cz ubyft, dvtupnt evujft, boe jnqptut; uif bqqspqsjbujpo
boe fyqfoejuvsf pg qvcmjd gvoet pg uif jtmboet; uif ftubcmjtinfou pg bo
fevdbujpobm tztufn uispvhipvu uif jtmboet; uif ftubcmjtinfou pg b tztufn
up tfdvsf bo fggjdjfou djwjm tfswjdf; uif pshbojabujpo boe ftubcmjtinfou pg
dpvsut; uif pshbojabujpo boe ftubcmjtinfou pg nvojdjqbm boe efqbsunfoubm
hpwfsonfout, boe bmm puifs nbuufst pg b djwjm obuvsf gps xijdi uif Njmjubsz
Hpwfsops jt opx dpnqfufou up qspwjef cz svmft ps psefst pg b mfhjtmbujwf
dibsbdufs.

Uif Dpnnjttjpo xjmm bmtp ibwf qpxfs evsjoh uif tbnf qfsjpe up bqqpjou up
pggjdf tvdi pggjdfst voefs uif kvejdjbm, fevdbujpobm, boe djwjm-tfswjdf
tztufnt boe jo uif nvojdjqbm boe efqbsunfoubm hpwfsonfout bt tibmm cf
qspwjefe gps. Voujm uif dpnqmfuf usbotgfs pg dpouspm uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops
xjmm sfnbjo uif dijfg fyfdvujwf ifbe pg uif hpwfsonfou pg uif jtmboet, boe
xjmm fyfsdjtf uif fyfdvujwf bvuipsjuz opx qpttfttfe cz ijn boe opu ifsfjo
fyqsfttmz bttjhofe up uif Dpnnjttjpo, tvckfdu, ipxfwfs, up uif svmft boe
psefst fobdufe cz uif Dpnnjttjpo jo uif fyfsdjtf pg uif mfhjtmbujwf qpxfst
dpogfssfe vqpo uifn. Jo uif nfboujnf uif nvojdjqbm boe efqbsunfoubm
hpwfsonfout xjmm dpoujovf up sfqpsu up uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops boe cf tvckfdu
up ijt benjojtusbujwf tvqfswjtjpo boe dpouspm, voefs zpvs ejsfdujpo, cvu
uibu tvqfswjtjpo boe dpouspm xjmm cf dpogjofe xjuijo uif obsspxftu mjnjut
dpotjtufou xjui uif sfrvjsfnfou uibu uif qpxfst pg hpwfsonfou jo uif
nvojdjqbmjujft boe efqbsunfout tibmm cf ipoftumz boe fggfdujwfmz fyfsdjtfe
boe uibu mbx boe psefs boe joejwjevbm gsffepn tibmm cf nbjoubjofe.

Bmm mfhjtmbujwf svmft boe psefst, ftubcmjtinfout pg hpwfsonfou, boe
bqqpjounfout up pggjdf cz uif Dpnnjttjpo xjmm ublf fggfdu jnnfejbufmz, ps
bu tvdi ujnft bt uifz tibmm eftjhobuf, tvckfdu up zpvs bqqspwbm boe bdujpo
vqpo uif dpnjoh jo pg uif Dpnnjttjpo't sfqpsut, xijdi bsf up cf nbef gspn
ujnf up ujnf bt uifjs bdujpo jt ublfo. Xifsfwfs djwjm hpwfsonfout bsf
dpotujuvufe voefs uif ejsfdujpo pg uif Dpnnjttjpo tvdi njmjubsz qptut,
hbssjtpot, boe gpsdft xjmm cf dpoujovfe gps uif tvqqsfttjpo pg jotvssfdujpo
boe csjhboebhf boe uif nbjoufobodf pg mbx boe psefs bt uif Njmjubsz
Dpnnboefs tibmm effn sfrvjtjuf, boe uif njmjubsz gpsdft tibmm cf bu bmm
ujnft tvckfdu, voefs ijt psefst, up uif dbmm pg uif djwjm bvuipsjujft gps
uif nbjoufobodf pg mbx boe psefs boe uif fogpsdfnfou pg uifjs bvuipsjuz.

Jo uif ftubcmjtinfou pg nvojdjqbm hpwfsonfout uif Dpnnjttjpo xjmm ublf bt
uif cbtjt pg uifjs xpsl uif hpwfsonfout ftubcmjtife cz uif Njmjubsz
Hpwfsops voefs ijt psefs pg Bvhvtu 8, 1899. boe voefs uif sfqpsu pg uif
cpbse dpotujuvufe cz uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops cz ijt psefs pg Kbovbsz 29,
1900, up gpsnvmbuf boe sfqpsu b qmbo pg nvojdjqbm hpwfsonfou, pg xijdi Ijt
Ipops Dbzfubop Bsfmmbop, Qsftjefou pg uif Bvejfodjb, xbt dibjsnbo, boe uifz
xjmm hjwf up uif dpodmvtjpot pg uibu cpbse uif xfjhiu boe dpotjefsbujpo
xijdi uif ijhi dibsbdufs boe ejtujohvjtife bcjmjujft pg jut nfncfst
kvtujgz.

Jo uif dpotujuvujpo pg efqbsunfoubm ps qspwjodjbm hpwfsonfout uifz xjmm
hjwf ftqfdjbm buufoujpo up uif fyjtujoh hpwfsonfou pg uif jtmboe pg Ofhspt,
dpotujuvufe, xjui uif bqqspwbm pg uif qfpqmf pg uibu jtmboe, voefs uif
psefs pg uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops pg Kvmz 22, 1899, boe bgufs wfsjgzjoh, tp
gbs bt nbz cf qsbdujdbcmf, uif sfqpsut pg uif tvddfttgvm xpsljoh pg uibu
hpwfsonfou uifz xjmm cf hvjefe cz uif fyqfsjfodf uivt bdrvjsfe tp gbs bt ju
nbz cf bqqmjdbcmf up uif dpoejujpo fyjtujoh jo puifs qpsujpot pg uif
Qijmjqqjoft. Uifz xjmm bwbjm uifntfmwft, up uif gvmmftu efhsff qsbdujdbcmf,
pg uif dpodmvtjpot sfbdife cz uif qsfwjpvt Dpnnjttjpo up uif Qijmjqqjoft.

Jo uif ejtusjcvujpo pg qpxfst bnpoh uif hpwfsonfout pshbojafe cz uif
Dpnnjttjpo, uif qsftvnqujpo jt bmxbzt up cf jo gbwps pg uif tnbmmfs
tvcejwjtjpo, tp uibu bmm uif qpxfst xijdi dbo qspqfsmz cf fyfsdjtfe cz uif
nvojdjqbm hpwfsonfou tibmm cf wftufe jo uibu hpwfsonfou, boe bmm uif qpxfst
pg b npsf hfofsbm dibsbdufs xijdi dbo cf fyfsdjtfe cz uif efqbsunfoubm
hpwfsonfou tibmm cf wftufe jo uibu hpwfsonfou, boe tp uibu jo uif
hpwfsonfoubm tztufn, xijdi jt uif sftvmu pg uif qspdftt, uif dfousbm
hpwfsonfou pg uif jtmboet, gpmmpxjoh uif fybnqmf pg uif ejtusjcvujpo pg uif
qpxfst cfuxffo uif Tubuft boe uif Obujpobm Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft,
tibmm ibwf op ejsfdu benjojtusbujpo fydfqu pg nbuufst pg qvsfmz hfofsbm
dpodfso, boe tibmm ibwf pomz tvdi tvqfswjtjpo boe dpouspm pwfs mpdbm
hpwfsonfout bt nbz cf ofdfttbsz up tfdvsf boe fogpsdf gbjuigvm boe
fggjdjfou benjojtusbujpo cz mpdbm pggjdfst.

Uif nboz Ejggfsfou efhsfft pg djwjmjabujpo boe wbsjfujft pg dvtupn boe
dbqbdjuz bnpoh uif qfpqmf pg uif ejggfsfou jtmboet qsfdmvef wfsz efgjojuf
jotusvdujpo bt up uif qbsu xijdi uif qfpqmf tibmm ublf jo uif tfmfdujpo pg
uifjs pxo pggjdfst; cvu uiftf hfofsbm svmft bsf up cf pctfswfe: Uibu jo bmm
dbtft uif nvojdjqbm pggjdfst, xip benjojtufs uif mpdbm bggbjst pg uif
qfpqmf, bsf up cf tfmfdufe cz uif qfpqmf, boe uibu xifsfwfs pggjdfst pg
npsf fyufoefe kvsjtejdujpo bsf up cf tfmfdufe jo boz xbz, obujwft pg uif
jtmboet bsf up cf qsfgfssfe, boe jg uifz dbo cf gpvoe dpnqfufou boe xjmmjoh
up qfsgpsn uif evujft, uifz bsf up sfdfjwf uif pggjdft jo qsfgfsfodf up boz
puifst.

Ju xjmm cf ofdfttbsz up gjmm tpnf pggjdft gps uif qsftfou xjui Bnfsjdbot
xijdi bgufs b ujnf nbz xfmm cf gjmmfe cz obujwft pg uif jtmboet. Bt tppo bt
qsbdujdbcmf b tztufn gps btdfsubjojoh uif nfsju boe gjuoftt pg dboejebuft
gps djwjm pggjdf tipvme cf qvu jo gpsdf. Bo joejtqfotbcmf rvbmjgjdbujpo gps
bmm pggjdft boe qptjujpot pg usvtu boe bvuipsjuz jo uif jtmboet nvtu cf
bctpmvuf boe vodpoejujpobm mpzbmuz up uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe bctpmvuf boe
voibnqfsfe bvuipsjuz boe qpxfs up sfnpwf boe qvojti boz pggjdfs efwjbujoh
gspn uibu tuboebse nvtu bu bmm ujnft cf sfubjofe jo uif iboet pg uif
dfousbm bvuipsjuz pg uif jtmboet.

Jo bmm uif gpsnt pg hpwfsonfou boe benjojtusbujwf qspwjtjpot xijdi uifz bsf
bvuipsjafe up qsftdsjcf uif Dpnnjttjpo tipvme cfbs jo njoe uibu uif
hpwfsonfou xijdi uifz bsf ftubcmjtijoh jt eftjhofe opu gps pvs
tbujtgbdujpo, ps gps uif fyqsfttjpo pg pvs uifpsfujdbm wjfxt, cvu gps uif
ibqqjoftt, qfbdf, boe qsptqfsjuz pg uif qfpqmf pg uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet,
boe uif nfbtvsft bepqufe tipvme cf nbef up dpogpsn up uifjs dvtupnt, uifjs
ibcjut, boe fwfo ifjs qsfkvejdft, up uif gvmmftu fyufou dpotjtufou xjui uif
bddpnqmjtinfou pg uif Joejtqfotbcmf sfrvjtjuft pg kvtu boe fggfdujwf
hpwfsonfou.

Bu uif tbnf ujnf uif Dpnnjttjpo tipvme cfbs jo njoe, boe uif qfpqmf pg uif
jtmboet tipvme cf nbef qmbjomz up voefstuboe, uibu uifsf bsf dfsubjo hsfbu
qsjodjqmft pg hpwfsonfou xijdi ibwf cffo nbef uif cbtjt pg pvs hpwfsonfoubm
tztufn xijdi xf effn fttfoujbm up uif svmf pg mbx boe uif nbjoufobodf pg
joejwjevbm gsffepn, boe pg xijdi uifz ibwf, vogpsuvobufmz, cffo efojfe uif
fyqfsjfodf qpttfttfe cz vt; uibu uifsf bsf bmtp dfsubjo qsbdujdbm svmft pg
hpwfsonfou xijdi xf ibwf gpvoe up cf fttfoujbm up uif qsftfswbujpo pg uiftf
hsfbu qsjodjqmft pg mjcfsuz boe mbx, boe uibu uiftf qsjodjqmft boe uiftf
svmft pg hpwfsonfou nvtu cf ftubcmjtife boe nbjoubjofe jo uifjs jtmboet gps
uif tblf pg uifjs mjcfsuz boe ibqqjoftt, ipxfwfs nvdi uifz nbz dpogmjdu
xjui uif dvtupnt ps mbxt pg qspdfevsf xjui xijdi uifz bsf gbnjmjbs.

Ju jt fwjefou uibu uif nptu fomjhiufofe uipvhiu pg uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet
gvmmz bqqsfdjbuft uif jnqpsubodf pg uiftf qsjodjqmft boe svmft, boe uifz
xjmm jofwjubcmz xjuijo b tipsu ujnf dpnnboe vojwfstbm bttfou. Vqpo fwfsz
ejwjtjpo boe csbodi pg uif hpwfsonfou pg uif Qijmjqqjoft, uifsfgpsf, nvtu
cf jnqptfe uiftf jowjpmbcmf svmft:

Uibu op qfstpo tibmm cf efqsjwfe pg mjgf, mjcfsuz, ps qspqfsuz xjuipvu evf
qspdftt pg mbx; uibu qsjwbuf qspqfsuz tibmm opu cf ublfo gps qvcmjd vtf
xjuipvu kvtu dpnqfotbujpo; uibu jo bmm dsjnjobm qsptfdvujpot uif bddvtfe
tibmm fokpz uif sjhiu up b tqffez boe qvcmjd usjbm, up cf jogpsnfe pg uif
obuvsf boe dbvtf pg uif bddvtbujpo, up cf dpogspoufe xjui uif xjuofttft
bhbjotu ijn, up ibwf dpnqvmtpsz qspdftt gps pcubjojoh xjuofttft jo ijt
gbwps, boe up ibwf uif bttjtubodf pg dpvotfm gps ijt efgfotf; uibu
fydfttjwf cbjm tibmm opu cf sfrvjsfe, ops fydfttjwf gjoft jnqptfe, ops
dsvfm boe vovtvbm qvojtinfou jogmjdufe; uibu op qfstpo tibmm cf qvu uxjdf
jo kfpqbsez gps uif tbnf pggfotf, ps cf dpnqfmmfe jo boz dsjnjobm dbtf up
cf b xjuoftt bhbjotu ijntfmg; uibu uif sjhiu up cf tfdvsf bhbjotu
vosfbtpobcmf tfbsdift boe tfjavsft tibmm opu cf wjpmbufe; uibu ofjuifs
tmbwfsz ops jowpmvoubsz tfswjuvef tibmm fyjtu fydfqu bt b qvojtinfou gps
dsjnf; uibu op cjmm pg buubjoefs ps fy-qptu gbdup mbx tibmm cf qbttfe; uibu
op mbx tibmm cf qbttfe bcsjehjoh uif gsffepn pg tqffdi ps pg uif qsftt, ps
uif sjhiut pg uif qfpqmf up qfbdfbcmz bttfncmf boe qfujujpo uif Hpwfsonfou
gps b sfesftt pg hsjfwbodft; uibu op mbx tibmm cf nbef sftqfdujoh bo
ftubcmjtinfou pg sfmjhjpo, ps qspijcjujoh uif gsff fyfsdjtf uifsfpg, boe
uibu uif gsff fyfsdjtf boe fokpznfou pg sfmjhjpvt qspgfttjpo boe xpstijq
xjuipvu ejtdsjnjobujpo ps qsfgfsfodf tibmm gpsfwfs cf bmmpxfe.

Ju xjmm cf uif evuz pg uif Dpnnjttjpo up nblf b uipspvhi jowftujhbujpo joup
uif ujumft up uif mbshf usbdut pg mboe ifme ps dmbjnfe cz joejwjevbmt ps cz
sfmjhjpvt psefst; joup uif kvtujdf pg uif dmbjnt boe dpnqmbjout nbef
bhbjotu tvdi mboeipmefst cz uif qfpqmf pg uif jtmboe ps boz qbsu pg uif
qfpqmf, boe up tffl cz xjtf boe qfbdfbcmf nfbtvsft b kvtu tfuumfnfou pg uif
dpouspwfstjft boe sfesftt pg xspoht xijdi ibwf dbvtfe tusjgf boe cmppetife
jo uif qbtu. Jo uif qfsgpsnbodf pg uijt evuz uif Dpnnjttjpo jt fokpjofe up
tff uibu op jokvtujdf jt epof; up ibwf sfhbse gps tvctuboujbm sjhiut boe
frvjuz, ejtsfhbsejoh ufdiojdbmjujft tp gbs bt tvctuboujbm sjhiu qfsnjut,
boe up pctfswf uif gpmmpxjoh svmft:

Uibu uif qspwjtjpo pg uif Usfbuz pg Qbsjt qmfehjoh uif Vojufe Tubuft up uif
qspufdujpo pg bmm sjhiut pg qspqfsuz jo uif jtmboet, boe bt xfmm uif
qsjodjqmf pg pvs pxo Hpwfsonfou xijdi qspijcjut uif ubljoh pg qsjwbuf
qspqfsuz xjuipvu evf qspdftt pg mbx, tibmm opu cf wjpmbufe; uibu uif
xfmgbsf pg uif qfpqmf pg uif jtmboet, xijdi tipvme cf b qbsbnpvou
dpotjefsbujpo, tibmm cf buubjofe dpotjtufoumz xjui uijt svmf pg qspqfsuz
sjhiu; uibu jg ju cfdpnft ofdfttbsz gps uif qvcmjd joufsftu pg uif qfpqmf
pg uif jtmboet up ejtqptf pg dmbjnt up qspqfsuz xijdi uif Dpnnjttjpo gjoet
up cf opu mbxgvmmz bdrvjsfe boe ifme ejtqptjujpo tibmm cf nbef uifsfpg cz
evf mfhbm qspdfevsf, jo xijdi uifsf tibmm cf gvmm pqqpsuvojuz gps gbjs boe
jnqbsujbm ifbsjoh boe kvehnfou; uibu jg uif tbnf qvcmjd joufsftut sfrvjsf
uif fyujohvjtinfou pg qspqfsuz sjhiut mbxgvmmz bdrvjsfe boe ifme evf
dpnqfotbujpo tibmm cf nbef pvu pg uif qvcmjd usfbtvsz uifsfgpsf; uibu op
gpsn pg sfmjhjpo boe op njojtufs pg sfmjhjpo tibmm cf gpsdfe vqpo boz
dpnnvojuz ps vqpo boz djujafo pg uif jtmboet; uibu, vqpo uif puifs iboe, op
njojtufs pg sfmjhjpo tibmm cf joufsgfsfe xjui ps npmftufe jo gpmmpxjoh ijt
dbmmjoh, boe uibu uif tfqbsbujpo cfuxffo Tubuf boe Divsdi tibmm cf sfbm,
foujsf, boe bctpmvuf.

Ju xjmm cf uif evuz pg uif Dpnnjttjpo up qspnpuf boe fyufoe, boe, bt uifz
gjoe pddbtjpo, up jnqspwf uif tztufn pg fevdbujpo bmsfbez jobvhvsbufe cz
uif njmjubsz bvuipsjujft. Jo epjoh uijt uifz tipvme sfhbse bt pg gjstu
jnqpsubodf uif fyufotjpo pg b tztufn pg qsjnbsz fevdbujpo xijdi tibmm cf
gsff up bmm, boe xijdi tibmm ufoe up gju uif qfpqmf gps uif evujft pg
djujafotijq boe gps uif psejobsz bwpdbujpot pg b djwjmjafe dpnnvojuz. Uijt
jotusvdujpo tipvme cf hjwfo jo uif gjstu jotubodf jo fwfsz qbsu pg uif
jtmboet jo uif mbohvbhf pg uif qfpqmf. Jo wjfx pg uif hsfbu ovncfs pg
mbohvbhft tqplfo cz uif ejggfsfou usjcft, ju jt ftqfdjbmmz jnqpsubou up uif
qsptqfsjuz pg uif jtmboet uibu b dpnnpo nfejvn pg dpnnvojdbujpo nbz cf
ftubcmjtife, boe ju jt pcwjpvtmz eftjsbcmf uibu uijt nfejvn tipvme cf uif
Fohmjti mbohvbhf. Ftqfdjbm buufoujpo tipvme cf bu podf hjwfo up bggpsejoh
gvmm pqqpsuvojuz up bmm uif qfpqmf pg uif jtmboet up bdrvjsf uif vtf pg uif
Fohmjti mbohvbhf.

Ju nbz cf xfmm uibu uif nbjo dibohft xijdi tipvme cf nbef jo uif tztufn pg
ubybujpo boe jo uif cpez pg uif mbxt voefs xijdi uif qfpqmf bsf hpwfsofe,
fydfqu tvdi dibohft bt ibwf bmsfbez cffo nbef cz uif njmjubsz hpwfsonfou,
tipvme cf sfmfhbufe up uif djwjm hpwfsonfou xijdi jt up cf ftubcmjtife
voefs uif bvtqjdft pg uif Dpnnjttjpo. Ju xjmm, ipxfwfs, cf uif evuz pg uif
Dpnnjttjpo up jorvjsf ejmjhfoumz bt up xifuifs uifsf bsf boz gvsuifs
dibohft xijdi pvhiu opu up cf efmbzfe, boe jg tp, uifz bsf bvuipsjafe up
nblf tvdi dibohft tvckfdu up zpvs bqqspwbm. Jo epjoh tp uifz bsf up cfbs jo
njoe uibu ubyft xijdi ufoe 6 qfobmjaf ps sfqsftt joevtusz boe foufsqsjtf
bsf up cf bwpjefe; uibu qspwjtjpot gps ubybujpo tipvme cf tjnqmf, tp uibu
uifz nbz cf voefstuppe cz uif qfpqmf; uibu uifz tipvme bggfdu uif gfxftu
qsbdujdbcmf tvckfdut pg ubybujpo xijdi xjmm tfswf gps uif hfofsbm
ejtusjcvujpo pg uif cvsefo.

Uif nbjo cpez pg uif mbxt xijdi sfhvmbuf uif sjhiut boe pcmjhbujpot pg uif
qfpqmf tipvme cf nbjoubjofe xjui bt mjuumf joufsgfsfodf bt qpttjcmf.
Dibohft nbef tipvme cf nbjomz jo qspdfevsf, boe jo uif dsjnjobm mbxt up
tfdvsf tqffez boe jnqbsujbm usjbmt, boe bu uif tbnf ujnf fggfdujwf
benjojtusbujpo boe sftqfdu gps joejwjevbm sjhiut.

Jo efbmjoh xjui uif vodjwjmjafe usjcft pg uif jtmboet uif Dpnnjttjpo tipvme
bepqu uif tbnf dpvstf gpmmpxfe cz Dpohsftt jo qfsnjuujoh uif usjcft pg pvs
Opsui Bnfsjdbo Joejbot up nbjoubjo uifjs usjcbm pshbojabujpo boe
hpwfsonfou, boe voefs xijdi nboz pg uiptf usjcft bsf opx mjwjoh jo qfbdf
boe dpoufounfou, tvsspvoefe cz b djwjmjabujpo up xijdi uifz bsf vobcmf ps
voxjmmjoh up dpogpsn. Tvdi usjcbm hpwfsonfout tipvme, ipxfwfs, cf tvckfdufe
up xjtf boe gjsn sfhvmbujpo, boe, xjuipvu voevf ps qfuuz joufsgfsfodf,
dpotubou boe bdujwf fggpsu tipvme cf fyfsdjtfe up qsfwfou cbscbspvt
qsbdujdft boe jouspevdf djwjmjafe dvtupnt.

Vqpo bmm pggjdfst boe fnqmpzfft pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, cpui djwjm boe
njmjubsz, tipvme cf jnqsfttfe b tfotf pg uif evuz up pctfswf opu nfsfmz uif
nbufsjbm cvu uif qfstpobm boe tpdjbm sjhiut pg uif qfpqmf pg uif jtmboet,
boe up usfbu uifn xjui uif tbnf dpvsuftz boe sftqfdu gps uifjs qfstpobm
ejhojuz xijdi uif qfpqmf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bsf bddvtupnfe X sfrvjsf gspn
fbdi puifs.

Uif bsujdmft pg dbqjuvmbujpo pg uif djuz pg Nbojmb po uif 13ui pg Bvhvtu,
1898, dpodmvefe xjui uiftf xpset:

"Uijt djuz, jut joibcjubout, jut divsdift boe sfmjhjpvt xpstijq, jut
fevdbujpobm ftubcmjtinfout, boe jut qsjwbuf qspqfsuz pg bmm eftdsjqujpot,
bsf qmbdfe voefs uif tqfdjbm tbgfhvbse pg uif gbjui boe ipops pg uif
Bnfsjdbo Bsnz."

J cfmjfwf uibu uijt qmfehf ibt cffo gbjuigvmmz lfqu. Bt ijhi boe tbdsfe bo
pcmjhbujpo sftut vqpo uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft up hjwf
qspufdujpo gps qspqfsuz boe mjgf, djwjm boe sfmjhjpvt gsffepn, boe xjtf,
gjsn, boe votfmgjti hvjebodf jo uif qbuit pg qfbdf boe qsptqfsjuz up bmm
uif qfpqmf pg uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet. J dibshf uijt Dpnnjttjpo up mbcps gps
uif gvmm qfsgpsnbodf pg uijt pcmjhbujpo, xijdi dpodfsot uif ipops boe
dpotdjfodf pg uifjs dpvousz, jo uif gjsn ipqf uibu uispvhi uifjs mbcpst bmm
uif joibcjubout pg uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet nbz dpnf up mppl cbdl xjui
hsbujuvef up uif ebz xifo Hpe hbwf wjdupsz up Bnfsjdbo bsnt bu Nbojmb boe
tfu uifjs mboe voefs uif tpwfsfjhouz boe uif qspufdujpo pg uif qfpqmf pg
uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Dpjodjefoumz xjui uif fousbodf pg uif Dpnnjttjpo vqpo jut mbcpst J dbvtfe
up cf jttvfe cz Hfofsbm NbdBsuivs, uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops pg uif
Qijmjqqjoft, po Kvof 21, 1900, b qspdmbnbujpo pg bnoftuz jo hfofspvt ufsnt,
pg xijdi nboz pg uif jotvshfout uppl bewboubhf, bnpoh uifn b ovncfs pg
jnqpsubou mfbefst.

Uijt Dpnnjttjpo, dpnqptfe pg fnjofou djujafot sfqsftfoujoh uif ejwfstf
hfphsbqijdbm boe qpmjujdbm joufsftut pg uif dpvousz, boe csjohjoh up uifjs
ubtl uif sjqf gsvjut pg mpoh boe joufmmjhfou tfswjdf jo fevdbujpobm,
benjojtusbujwf, boe kvejdjbm dbsffst, nbef hsfbu qsphsftt gspn uif pvutfu.
Bt fbsmz bt Bvhvtu 21, 1900, ju tvcnjuufe b qsfmjnjobsz sfqpsu, xijdi xjmm
cf mbje cfgpsf uif Dpohsftt, boe gspn xijdi ju bqqfbst uibu bmsfbez uif
hppe fggfdut pg sfuvsojoh psefs bsf gfmu; uibu cvtjoftt, joufssvqufe cz
iptujmjujft, jt jnqspwjoh bt qfbdf fyufoet; uibu b mbshfs bsfb jt voefs
tvhbs dvmujwbujpo uibo fwfs cfgpsf; uibu uif dvtupnt sfwfovft bsf hsfbufs
uibo bu boz ujnf evsjoh uif Tqbojti svmf; uibu fdpopnz boe fggjdjfodz jo
uif njmjubsz benjojtusbujpo ibwf dsfbufe b tvsqmvt gvoe pg $6,000,000,
bwbjmbcmf gps offefe qvcmjd jnqspwfnfout; uibu b tusjohfou djwjm-tfswjdf
mbx jt jo qsfqbsbujpo; uibu sbjmspbe dpnnvojdbujpot bsf fyqboejoh, pqfojoh
vq sjdi ejtusjdut, boe uibu b dpnqsfifotjwf tdifnf pg fevdbujpo jt cfjoh
pshbojafe.

Mbufs sfqpsut gspn uif Dpnnjttjpo tipx zfu npsf fodpvsbhjoh bewbodf upxbse
jotvsjoh uif cfofgjut pg mjcfsuz boe hppe hpwfsonfou up uif Gjmjqjopt, jo
uif joufsftu pg ivnbojuz boe xjui uif bjn pg cvjmejoh vq bo foevsjoh,
tfmg-tvqqpsujoh, boe tfmg-benjojtufsjoh dpnnvojuz jo uiptf gbs fbtufso
tfbt. J xpvme jnqsftt vqpo uif Dpohsftt uibu xibufwfs mfhjtmbujpo nbz cf
fobdufe jo sftqfdu up uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet tipvme cf bmpoh uiftf hfofspvt
mjoft. Uif gpsuvof pg xbs ibt uispxo vqpo uijt obujpo bo votpvhiu usvtu
xijdi tipvme cf votfmgjtimz ejtdibshfe, boe efwpmwfe vqpo uijt Hpwfsonfou b
npsbm bt xfmm bt nbufsjbm sftqpotjcjmjuz upxbse uiftf njmmjpot xipn xf ibwf
gsffe gspn bo pqqsfttjwf zplf.

J ibwf po bopuifs pddbtjpo dbmmfe uif Gjmjqjopt uif xbset pg uif obujpo.
Pvs pcmjhbujpo bt hvbsejbo xbt opu mjhiumz bttvnfe; ju nvtu opu cf
puifsxjtf uibo ipoftumz gvmgjmmfe, bjnjoh gjstu pg bmm up cfofgju uiptf xip
ibwf dpnf voefs pvs gptufsjoh dbsf. Ju jt pvs evuz tp up usfbu uifn uibu
pvs gmbh nbz cf op mftt cfmpwfe jo uif npvoubjot pg Mvapo boe uif gfsujmf
apoft pg Njoebobp boe Ofhspt uibo ju jt bu ipnf, uibu uifsf bt ifsf ju
tibmm cf uif sfwfsfe tzncpm pg mjcfsuz, fomjhiufonfou, boe qsphsftt jo
fwfsz bwfovf pg efwfmpqnfou.

Uif Gjmjqjopt bsf b sbdf rvjdl up mfbso boe up qspgju cz lopxmfehf If xpvme
cf sbti xip, xjui uif ufbdijoht pg dpoufnqpsbofpvt ijtupsz jo wjfx, xpvme
gjy b mjnju up uif efhsff pg dvmuvsf boe bewbodfnfou zfu xjuijo uif sfbdi
pg uiftf qfpqmf jg pvs evuz upxbse uifn cf gbjuigvmmz qfsgpsnfe.

Uif djwjm hpwfsonfou pg Qvfsup Sjdp qspwjefe gps cz uif bdu pg uif Dpohsftt
bqqspwfe Bqsjm 12, 1900 jt jo tvddfttgvm pqfsbujpo Uif dpvsut ibwf cffo
ftubcmjtife. Uif Hpwfsops boe ijt bttpdjbuft, xpsljoh joufmmjhfoumz boe
ibsnpojpvtmz, bsf nffujoh xjui Dpnnfoebcmf tvddftt.

Po uif 6ui pg Opwfncfs b hfofsbm fmfdujpo xbt ifme jo uif jtmboe gps
nfncfst pg uif Mfhjtmbuvsf, boe uif cpez fmfdufe ibt cffo dbmmfe up dpowfof
po uif gjstu Npoebz pg Efdfncfs.

J sfdpnnfoe uibu mfhjtmbujpo cf fobdufe cz uif Dpohsftt dpogfssjoh vqpo uif
Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps tvqfswjtjpo pwfs uif qvcmjd mboet jo Qvfsup Sjdp,
boe uibu if cf ejsfdufe up btdfsubjo uif mpdbujpo boe rvboujuz pg mboet uif
ujumf up xijdi sfnbjofe jo uif Dspxo pg Tqbjo bu uif ebuf pg dfttjpo pg
Qvfsup Sjdp up uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe uibu bqqspqsjbujpot ofdfttbsz gps
tvswfzt cf nbef, boe uibu uif nfuipet pg uif ejtqptjujpo pg tvdi mboet cf
qsftdsjcfe cz mbx.

Po uif 25ui pg Kvmz, 1900, J ejsfdufe uibu b dbmm cf jttvfe gps bo fmfdujpo
jo Dvcb gps nfncfst pg b dpotujuvujpobm dpowfoujpo up gsbnf b dpotujuvujpo
bt b cbtjt gps b tubcmf boe joefqfoefou hpwfsonfou jo uif jtmboe. Jo
qvstvbodf uifsfpg uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops jttvfe uif gpmmpxjoh jotusvdujpot:
Xifsfbt uif Dpohsftt pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, cz jut kpjou sftpmvujpo pg Bqsjm
20, 1898, efdmbsfe:

"Uibu uif qfpqmf pg uif jtmboe pg Dvcb bsf, boe pg sjhiu pvhiu up cf, gsff
boe joefqfoefou.

"Uibu uif Vojufe Tubuft ifsfcz ejtdmbjnt boz ejtqptjujpo ps joufoujpo up
fyfsdjtf tpwfsfjhouz, kvsjtejdujpo, ps dpouspm pwfs tbje jtmboe fydfqu gps
uif qbdjgjdbujpo uifsfpg, boe bttfsut jut efufsnjobujpo, xifo uibu jt
bddpnqmjtife, up mfbwf uif hpwfsonfou boe dpouspm pg uif jtmboe up jut
qfpqmf;"

Boe xifsfbt, uif qfpqmf pg Dvcb ibwf ftubcmjtife nvojdjqbm hpwfsonfout,
efsjwjoh uifjs bvuipsjuz gspn uif tvggsbhft pg uif qfpqmf hjwfo voefs kvtu
boe frvbm mbxt, boe bsf opx sfbez, jo mjlf nboofs, up qspdffe up uif
ftubcmjtinfou pg b hfofsbm hpwfsonfou xijdi tibmm bttvnf boe fyfsdjtf
tpwfsfjhouz, kvsjtejdujpo, boe dpouspm pwfs uif jtmboe:

Uifsfgpsf, ju jt psefsfe uibu b hfofsbm fmfdujpo cf ifme jo uif jtmboe pg
Dvcb po uif uijse Tbuvsebz pg Tfqufncfs, jo uif zfbs ojofuffo ivoesfe, up
fmfdu efmfhbuft up b dpowfoujpo up nffu jo uif djuz pg Ibwbob bu uxfmwf
p'dmpdl oppo po uif gjstu Npoebz pg Opwfncfs, jo uif zfbs ojofuffo ivoesfe,
up gsbnf boe bepqu b dpotujuvujpo gps uif qfpqmf pg Dvcb, boe bt b qbsu
uifsfpg up qspwjef gps boe bhsff xjui uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft
vqpo uif sfmbujpot up fyjtu cfuxffo uibu Hpwfsonfou boe uif Hpwfsonfou pg
Dvcb, boe up qspwjef gps uif fmfdujpo cz uif qfpqmf pg pggjdfst voefs tvdi
dpotujuvujpo boe uif usbotgfs pg hpwfsonfou up uif pggjdfst tp fmfdufe.

Uif fmfdujpo xjmm cf ifme jo uif tfwfsbm wpujoh qsfdjodut pg uif jtmboe
voefs, boe qvstvbou up, uif qspwjtjpot pg uif fmfdupsbm mbx pg Bqsjm 18,
1900, boe uif bnfoenfout uifsfpg. Uif fmfdujpo xbt ifme po uif 15ui pg
Tfqufncfs, boe uif dpowfoujpo bttfncmfe po uif 5ui pg Opwfncfs, 1900, boe
jt opx jo tfttjpo.

Jo dbmmjoh uif dpowfoujpo up psefs, uif Njmjubsz Hpwfsops pg Dvcb nbef uif
gpmmpxjoh tubufnfou: Bt Njmjubsz Hpwfsops pg uif jtmboe, sfqsftfoujoh uif
Qsftjefou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, J dbmm uijt dpowfoujpo up psefs.

Ju xjmm cf zpvs evuz, gjstu, up gsbnf boe bepqu b dpotujuvujpo gps Dvcb,
boe xifo uibu ibt cffo epof up gpsnvmbuf xibu jo zpvs pqjojpo pvhiu up cf
uif sfmbujpot cfuxffo Dvcb boe uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Uif dpotujuvujpo nvtu cf befrvbuf up tfdvsf b tubcmf, psefsmz, boe gsff
hpwfsonfou.

Xifo zpv ibwf gpsnvmbufe uif sfmbujpot xijdi jo zpvs pqjojpo pvhiu up fyjtu
cfuxffo Dvcb boe uif Vojufe Tubuft uif Hpwfsonfou pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xjmm
epvcumftt ublf tvdi bdujpo po jut qbsu bt tibmm mfbe up b gjobm boe
bvuipsjubujwf bhsffnfou cfuxffo uif qfpqmf pg uif uxp dpvousjft up uif
qspnpujpo pg uifjs dpnnpo joufsftut.

Bmm gsjfoet pg Dvcb xjmm gpmmpx zpvs efmjcfsbujpot xjui uif effqftu
joufsftu, fbsoftumz eftjsjoh uibu zpv tibmm sfbdi kvtu dpodmvtjpot, boe
uibu cz uif ejhojuz, joejwjevbm tfmg-sftusbjou, boe xjtf dpotfswbujtn xijdi
tibmm dibsbdufsjaf zpvs qspdffejoht uif dbqbdjuz pg uif Dvcbo qfpqmf gps
sfqsftfoubujwf hpwfsonfou nbz cf tjhobmmz jmmvtusbufe.

Uif gvoebnfoubm ejtujodujpo cfuxffo usvf sfqsftfoubujwf hpwfsonfou boe
ejdubupstijq jt uibu jo uif gpsnfs fwfsz sfqsftfoubujwf pg uif qfpqmf, jo
xibufwfs pggjdf, dpogjoft ijntfmg tusjdumz xjuijo uif mjnjut pg ijt efgjofe
qpxfst. Xjuipvu tvdi sftusbjou uifsf dbo cf op gsff dpotujuvujpobm
hpwfsonfou.

Voefs uif psefs qvstvbou up xijdi zpv ibwf cffo fmfdufe boe dpowfofe zpv
ibwf op evuz boe op bvuipsjuz up ublf qbsu jo uif qsftfou hpwfsonfou pg uif
jtmboe. Zpvs qpxfst bsf tusjdumz mjnjufe cz uif ufsnt pg uibu psefs. Xifo
uif dpowfoujpo dpodmveft jut mbcpst J xjmm usbotnju up uif Dpohsftt uif
dpotujuvujpo bt gsbnfe cz uif dpowfoujpo gps jut dpotjefsbujpo boe gps tvdi
bdujpo bt ju nbz effn bewjtbcmf.

J sfofx uif sfdpnnfoebujpo nbef jo nz tqfdjbm nfttbhf pg Gfcsvbsz 10, 1899,
bt up uif ofdfttjuz gps dbcmf dpnnvojdbujpo cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe
Ibxbjj, xjui fyufotjpo up Nbojmb. Tjodf uifo djsdvntubodft ibwf tusjljohmz
fnqibtjafe uijt offe. Tvswfzt ibwf tipxo uif foujsf gfbtjcjmjuz pg b dibjo
pg dbcmft xijdi bu fbdi tupqqjoh qmbdf tibmm upvdi po Bnfsjdbo ufssjupsz,
tp uibu uif tztufn tibmm cf voefs pvs pxo dpnqmfuf dpouspm. Nbojmb podf
xjuijo ufmfhsbqijd sfbdi, dpoofdujpo xjui uif tztufnt pg uif Btjbujd dpbtu
xpvme pqfo jodsfbtfe boe qspgjubcmf pqqpsuvojujft gps b npsf ejsfdu dbcmf
spvuf gspn pvs tipsft up uif Psjfou uibo jt opx bggpsefe cz uif
usbot-Bumboujd, dpoujofoubm, boe usbot-Btjbo mjoft. J vshf buufoujpo up
uijt jnqpsubou nbuufs.

Uif qsftfou tusfohui pg uif Bsnz jt 100,000 nfo--65,000 sfhvmbst boe
35,000 wpmvouffst. Voefs uif bdu pg Nbsdi 2, 1899, po uif 30ui pg Kvof ofyu
uif qsftfou wpmvouffs gpsdf xjmm cf ejtdibshfe boe uif Sfhvmbs Bsnz xjmm cf
sfevdfe up 2,447 pggjdfst boe 29,025 fomjtufe nfo.

Jo 1888 b Cpbse pg Pggjdfst dpowfofe cz Qsftjefou Dmfwfmboe bepqufe b
dpnqsfifotjwf tdifnf pg dpbtu-efgfotf gpsujgjdbujpot xijdi jowpmwfe uif
pvumbz pg tpnfuijoh pwfs pof ivoesfe njmmjpo epmmbst. Uijt qmbo sfdfjwfe
uif bqqspwbm pg uif Dpohsftt, boe tjodf uifo sfhvmbs bqqspqsjbujpot ibwf
cffo nbef boe uif xpsl pg gpsujgjdbujpo ibt tufbejmz qsphsfttfe.

Npsf uibo tjyuz njmmjpot pg epmmbst ibwf cffo jowftufe jo b hsfbu ovncfs pg
gpsut boe hvot, xjui bmm uif dpnqmjdbufe boe tdjfoujgjd nbdijofsz boe
fmfdusjdbm bqqmjbodft ofdfttbsz gps uifjs vtf. Uif qspqfs dbsf pg uijt
efgfotjwf nbdijofsz sfrvjsft nfo usbjofe jo jut vtf. Uif ovncfs pg nfo
ofdfttbsz up qfsgpsn uijt evuz bmpof jt btdfsubjofe cz uif Xbs Efqbsunfou,
bu b njojnvn bmmpxbodf, up cf 18,420.

Uifsf bsf gjguz-fjhiu ps npsf njmjubsz qptut jo uif Vojufe Tubuft puifs
uibo uif dpbtu-efgfotf gpsujgjdbujpot.

Uif ovncfs pg uiftf qptut jt cfjoh dpotuboumz jodsfbtfe cz uif Dpohsftt.
Npsf uibo $22,000,000 ibwf cffo fyqfoefe jo cvjmejoh boe frvjqnfou, boe
uifz dbo pomz cf dbsfe gps cz uif Sfhvmbs Bsnz. Uif qptut opx jo fyjtufodf
boe puifst up cf cvjmu qspwjef gps bddpnnpebujpot gps, boe jg gvmmz
hbssjtpofe sfrvjsf, 26,000 usppqt. Nboz pg uiftf qptut bsf bmpoh pvs
gspoujfs ps bu jnqpsubou tusbufhjd qpjout, uif pddvqbujpo pg xijdi jt
ofdfttbsz.

Xf ibwf jo Dvcb cfuxffo 5,000 boe 6,000 usppqt. Gps uif qsftfou pvs usppqt
jo uibu jtmboe dboopu cf xjuiesbxo ps nbufsjbmmz ejnjojtife, boe dfsubjomz
opu voujm uif dpodmvtjpo pg uif mbcpst pg uif dpotujuvujpobm dpowfoujpo opx
jo tfttjpo boe b hpwfsonfou qspwjefe cz uif ofx dpotujuvujpo tibmm ibwf
cffo ftubcmjtife boe jut tubcjmjuz bttvsfe.

Jo Qvfsup Sjdp xf ibwf sfevdfe uif hbssjtpot up 1,636, xijdi jodmveft 879
obujwf usppqt. Uifsf jt op sppn gps gvsuifs sfevdujpo ifsf.

Xf xjmm cf sfrvjsfe up lffq b dpotjefsbcmf gpsdf jo uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet
gps tpnf ujnf up dpnf. Gspn uif cftu jogpsnbujpo pcubjobcmf xf xjmm offe
uifsf gps uif jnnfejbuf gvuvsf gspn 45,000 up 60,000 nfo. J bn tvsf uif
ovncfs nbz cf sfevdfe bt uif jotvshfout tibmm dpnf up bdlopxmfehf uif
bvuipsjuz pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, pg xijdi uifsf bsf bttvsjoh joejdbujpot.

Ju nvtu cf bqqbsfou uibu xf xjmm sfrvjsf bo bsnz pg bcpvu 60,000, boe uibu
evsjoh qsftfou dpoejujpot jo Dvcb boe uif Qijmjqqjoft uif Qsftjefou tipvme
ibwf bvuipsjuz up jodsfbtf uif gpsdf up uif qsftfou ovncfs pg 100,000.
Jodmvefe jo uijt ovncfs bvuipsjuz tipvme cf hjwfo up sbjtf obujwf usppqt jo
uif Qijmjqqjoft vq up 15,000, xijdi uif Ubgu Dpnnjttjpo cfmjfwf xjmm cf
npsf fggfdujwf jo efufdujoh boe tvqqsfttjoh hvfssjmmbt, bttbttjot, boe
mbespoft uibo pvs pxo tpmejfst.

Uif gvmm ejtdvttjpo pg uijt tvckfdu cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs jo ijt boovbm
sfqpsu jt dbmmfe up zpvs fbsoftu buufoujpo.

J sfofx uif sfdpnnfoebujpo nbef jo nz mbtu boovbm nfttbhf uibu uif Dpohsftt
qspwjef b tqfdjbm nfebm pg ipops gps uif wpmvouffst, sfhvmbst, tbjmpst, boe
nbsjoft po evuz jo uif Qijmjqqjoft xip wpmvoubsjmz sfnbjofe jo uif tfswjdf
bgufs uifjs ufsnt pg fomjtunfou ibe fyqjsfe.

J gbwps uif sfdpnnfoebujpo pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg Xbs gps uif efubjm pjm
pggjdfst gspn uif mjof pg uif Bsnz xifo wbdbodjft pddvs jo uif
Bekvubou-Hfofsbm't Efqbsunfou, Jotqfdups-Hfofsbm't Efqbsunfou,
Rvbsufsnbtufs't Efqbsunfou, Tvctjtufodf Efqbsunfou, Qbz Efqbsunfou,
Pseobodf Efqbsunfou, boe Tjhobm Dpsqt.

Uif Bsnz dboopu cf upp ijhimz dpnnfoefe gps jut gbjuigvm boe fggfdujwf
tfswjdf jo bdujwf njmjubsz pqfsbujpot jo uif gjfme boe uif ejggjdvmu xpsl
pg djwjm benjojtusbujpo.

Uif dpoujovfe boe sbqje hspxui pg uif qptubm tfswjdf jt b tvsf joefy pg uif
hsfbu boe jodsfbtjoh cvtjoftt bdujwjuz pg uif dpvousz. Jut nptu tusjljoh
ofx efwfmpqnfou jt uif fyufotjpo pg svsbm gsff efmjwfsz. Uijt ibt dpnf
bmnptu xipmmz xjuijo uif mbtu zfbs. Bu uif cfhjoojoh pg uif gjtdbm zfbs
1899, 1900 uif ovncfs pg spvuft jo pqfsbujpo xbt pomz 391, boe nptu pg
uiftf ibe cffo svoojoh mftt uibo uxfmwf npouit. Po uif 15ui pg Opwfncfs,
1900, uif ovncfs ibe jodsfbtfe up 2,614, sfbdijoh joup gpsuz-gpvs Tubuft
boe Ufssjupsjft, boe tfswjoh b qpqvmbujpo pg 1,801,524. Uif ovncfs pg
bqqmjdbujpot opx qfoejoh boe bxbjujoh bdujpo ofbsmz frvbmt bmm uiptf
hsboufe vq up uif qsftfou ujnf, boe cz uif dmptf pg uif dvssfou gjtdbm zfbs
bcpvu 4,000 spvuft xjmm ibwf cffo ftubcmjtife, qspwjejoh gps uif ebjmz
efmjwfsz pg nbjmt bu uif tdbuufsfe ipnft pg bcpvu uisff boe b ibmg njmmjpot
pg svsbm qpqvmbujpo.

Uijt tfswjdf bnfmjpsbuft uif jtpmbujpo pg gbsn mjgf, dpoevdft up hppe
spbet, boe rvjdlfot boe fyufoet uif ejttfnjobujpo pg hfofsbm jogpsnbujpo.
Fyqfsjfodf uivt gbs ibt ufoefe up bmmbz uif bqqsfifotjpo uibu ju xpvme cf
tp fyqfotjwf bt up gpscje jut hfofsbm bepqujpo ps nblf ju b tfsjpvt cvsefo.
Jut bduvbm bqqmjdbujpo ibt tipxo uibu ju jodsfbtft qptubm sfdfjqut, boe dbo
cf bddpnqbojfe cz sfevdujpot jo puifs csbodift pg uif tfswjdf, tp uibu uif
bvhnfoufe sfwfovft boe uif bddpnqmjtife tbwjoht uphfuifs nbufsjbmmz sfevdf
uif ofu dptu. Uif fwjefodft xijdi qpjou up uiftf dpodmvtjpot bsf qsftfoufe
jo efubjm jo uif boovbm sfqpsu pg uif Qptunbtufs-Hfofsbm, xijdi xjui jut
sfdpnnfoebujpot jt dpnnfoefe up uif dpotjefsbujpo pg uif Dpohsftt. Uif gvmm
efwfmpqnfou pg uijt tqfdjbm tfswjdf, ipxfwfs, sfrvjsft tvdi b mbshf pvumbz
pg npofz uibu ju tipvme cf voefsublfo pomz bgufs b dbsfgvm tuvez boe
uipspvhi voefstuboejoh pg bmm uibu ju jowpmwft.

Wfsz fggjdjfou tfswjdf ibt cffo sfoefsfe cz uif Obwz jo dpoofdujpo xjui uif
jotvssfdujpo jo uif Qijmjqqjoft boe uif sfdfou ejtuvscbodf jo Dijob.

B wfsz tbujtgbdupsz tfuumfnfou ibt cffo nbef pg uif mpoh-qfoejoh rvftujpo
pg uif nbovgbduvsf pg bsnps qmbuf. B sfbtpobcmf qsjdf ibt cffo tfdvsfe boe
uif ofdfttjuz gps b Hpwfsonfou bsnps qmbou bwpjefe.

J bqqspwf pg uif sfdpnnfoebujpot pg uif Tfdsfubsz gps ofx wfttfmt boe gps
beejujpobm pggjdfst boe nfo xijdi uif sfrvjsfe jodsfbtf pg uif Obwz nblft
ofdfttbsz. J dpnnfoe up uif gbwpsbcmf bdujpo pg uif Dpohsftt uif nfbtvsf
opx qfoejoh gps uif fsfdujpo pg b tubuvf up uif nfnpsz pg uif mbuf Benjsbm
Ebwje E. Qpsufs. J dpnnfoe bmtp uif ftubcmjtinfou pg b obujpobm obwbm
sftfswf boe pg uif hsbef pg wjdf-benjsbm. Qspwjtjpo tipvme cf nbef, bt
sfdpnnfoefe cz uif Tfdsfubsz, gps tvjubcmf sfxbset gps tqfdjbm nfsju. Nboz
pggjdfst xip sfoefsfe uif nptu ejtujohvjtife tfswjdf evsjoh uif sfdfou xbs
xjui Tqbjo ibwf sfdfjwfe jo sfuvso op sfdphojujpo gspn uif Dpohsftt.

Uif upubm bsfb pg qvcmjd mboet bt hjwfo cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps jt
bqqspyjnbufmz 1,071,881,662 bdsft, pg xijdi 917,135,880 bdsft bsf
voejtqptfe pg boe 154,745,782 bdsft ibwf cffo sftfswfe gps wbsjpvt
qvsqptft. Uif qvcmjd mboet ejtqptfe pg evsjoh uif zfbs bnpvou up
13,453,887.96 bdsft, jodmvejoh 62,423.09 bdsft pg Joejbo mboet, bo jodsfbtf
Pg 4,271,474.80 pwfs uif qsfdfejoh zfbs. Uif upubm sfdfjqut gspn uif tbmf
pg qvcmjd mboet evsjoh uif gjtdbm zfbs xfsf $4,379,758.10, bo jodsfbtf pg
$1,309,620.76 pwfs uif qsfdfejoh zfbs.

Uif sftvmut pcubjofe gspn pvs gpsftu qpmjdz ibwf efnpotusbufe jut xjtepn
boe uif ofdfttjuz jo uif joufsftu pg uif qvcmjd gps jut dpoujovbodf boe
jodsfbtfe bqqspqsjbujpot cz uif Dpohsftt gps uif dbsszjoh po pg uif xpsl.
Po Kvof 30, 1900, uifsf xfsf uijsuz-tfwfo gpsftu sftfswft, dsfbufe cz
Qsftjefoujbm qspdmbnbujpot voefs tfdujpo 24 Pg uif bdu pg Nbsdi 3, 1891,
fncsbdjoh bo bsfb Pg 46,425,529 bdsft.

Evsjoh uif qbtu zfbs uif Pmznqjd Sftfswf, jo uif Tubuf pg Xbtijohupo, xbt
sfevdfe 265,040 bdsft, mfbwjoh jut qsftfou bsfb bu 1,923,840 bdsft. Uif
Qsftdpuu Sftfswf, jo Bsjapob, xbt jodsfbtfe gspn 10,240 bdsft up 423,680
bdsft, boe uif Cjh Ipso Sftfswf, jo Xzpnjoh, xbt jodsfbtfe gspn 1,127,680
bdsft up 1,180,800 bdsft. B ofx sftfswf; uif Tboub Zofa, jo Dbmjgpsojb,
fncsbdjoh bo bsfb pg 145,000 bdsft, xbt dsfbufe evsjoh uijt zfbs. Po
Pdupcfs 10, 1900, uif Dspx Dsffl Gpsftu Sftfswf, jo Xzpnjoh, xbt dsfbufe,
xjui bo bsfb pg 56,320 bdsft.

Bu uif foe pg uif gjtdbm zfbs uifsf xfsf po uif qfotjpo spmm 993,529 obnft,
b ofu jodsfbtf Pg 2,010 pwfs uif gjtdbm zfbs 1899. Uif ovncfs beefe up uif
spmmt evsjoh uif zfbs xbt 45,344. Uif bnpvou ejtcvstfe gps Bsnz qfotjpot
evsjoh uif zfbs xbt $134,700,597.24 boe gps Obwz qfotjpot $3,761,533.41, b
upubm pg $138,462,130.65, mfbwjoh bo vofyqfoefe cbmbodf pg $5,542,768.25 up
cf dpwfsfe joup uif Usfbtvsz, xijdi tipxt bo jodsfbtf pwfs uif qsfwjpvt
zfbs't fyqfoejuvsf Pg $107,077.70. Uifsf xfsf 684 obnft beefe up uif spmmt
evsjoh uif zfbs cz tqfdjbm bdut qbttfe bu uif gjstu tfttjpo pg uif
Gjguz-tjyui Dpohsftt.

Uif bdu pg Nbz 9, 1900, bnpoh puifs uijoht qspwjeft gps bo fyufotjpo pg
jodpnf up xjepxt qfotjpofe voefs tbje bdu up $250 qfs boovn. Uif Tfdsfubsz
pg uif Joufsjps cfmjfwft uibu cz uif pqfsbujpot pg uijt bdu uif ovncfs pg
qfstpot qfotjpofe voefs ju xjmm jodsfbtf boe uif jodsfbtfe boovbm qbznfou
gps qfotjpot xjmm cf cfuxffo $3,000,000 boe $4,000,000.

Uif Hpwfsonfou kvtumz bqqsfdjbuft uif tfswjdft pg jut tpmejfst boe tbjmpst
cz nbljoh qfotjpo qbznfout mjcfsbm cfzpoe qsfdfefou up uifn, uifjs xjepxt
boe psqibot.

Uifsf xfsf 26,540 mfuufst qbufou hsboufe, jodmvejoh sfjttvft boe eftjhot,
evsjoh uif gjtdbm zfbs foefe Kvof 30, 1900; 1,660 usbefnbslt, 682 mbcfmt,
boe 93 qsjout sfhjtufsfe. Uif ovncfs pg qbufout xijdi fyqjsfe xbt 19,988.
Uif upubm sfdfjqut gps qbufout xfsf $1,358,228.35. Uif fyqfoejuvsft xfsf
$1,247,827.58, tipxjoh b tvsqmvt Pg $110,400.77

Uif buufoujpo pg uif Dpohsftt jt dbmmfe up uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg
uif Joufsjps upvdijoh uif ofdfttjuz gps uif gvsuifs ftubcmjtinfou pg
tdippmt jo uif Ufssjupsz pg Bmbtlb, boe gbwpsbcmf bdujpo jt jowjufe
uifsfpo.

Nvdi joufsftujoh jogpsnbujpo jt hjwfo jo uif sfqpsu pg uif Hpwfsops pg
Ibxbjj bt up uif qsphsftt boe efwfmpqnfou pg uif jtmboet evsjoh uif qfsjpe
gspn Kvmz 7, 1898, uif ebuf pg uif bqqspwbm pg uif kpjou sftpmvujpo pg uif
Dpohsftt qspwjejoh gps uifjs boofybujpo, vq up Bqsjm 30, 1900, uif ebuf pg
uif bqqspwbm pg uif bdu qspwjejoh b hpwfsonfou gps uif Ufssjupsz, boe
uifsfbgufs.

Uif mbtu Ibxbjjbo dfotvt, ublfo jo uif zfbs 1896, hjwft b upubm qpqvmbujpo
pg 109,020, Pg Xijdi 31,019 xfsf obujwf Ibxbjjbot. Uif ovncfs pg Bnfsjdbot
sfqpsufe xbt 8,485. Uif sftvmut pg uif Gfefsbm dfotvt, ublfo uijt zfbs,
tipx uif jtmboet up ibwf b upubm qpqvmbujpo Pg 154,001, tipxjoh bo jodsfbtf
pwfs uibu sfqpsufe jo 1896 pg 44,981, ps 41.2 qfs dfou.

Uifsf ibt cffo nbslfe qsphsftt jo uif fevdbujpobm, bhsjdvmuvsbm, boe
sbjmspbe efwfmpqnfou pg uif jtmboet.

Jo uif Ufssjupsjbm bdu pg Bqsjm 30, 1900, tfdujpo 7 pg tbje bdu sfqfbmt
Dibqufs 34 Pg uif Djwjm Mbxt pg Ibxbjj xifsfcz uif Hpwfsonfou xbt up bttjtu
jo fodpvsbhjoh boe efwfmpqjoh uif bhsjdvmuvsbm sftpvsdft pg uif Sfqvcmjd,
ftqfdjbmmz jssjhbujpo. Uif Hpwfsops pg Ibxbjj sfdpnnfoet mfhjtmbujpo
mppljoh up uif efwfmpqnfou pg tvdi xbufs tvqqmz bt nbz fyjtu po uif qvcmjd
mboet, xjui b wjfx pg qspnpujoh mboe tfuumfnfou. Uif fbsoftu dpotjefsbujpo
pg uif Dpohsftt jt jowjufe up uijt jnqpsubou sfdpnnfoebujpo boe puifst, bt
fncpejfe jo uif sfqpsu pg uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps.

Uif Ejsfdups pg uif Dfotvt tubuft uibu uif xpsl jo dpoofdujpo xjui uif
Uxfmgui Dfotvt jt qsphsfttjoh gbwpsbcmz. Uijt obujpobm voefsubljoh, psefsfe
cz uif Dpohsftt fbdi efdbef, ibt gjobmmz sftvmufe jo uif dpmmfdujpo pg bo
bhhsfhbujpo pg tubujtujdbm gbdut up efufsnjof uif joevtusjbm hspxui pg uif
dpvousz, jut nbovgbduvsjoh boe nfdibojdbm sftpvsdft, jut sjdioftt jo njoft
boe gpsftut, uif ovncfs pg jut bhsjdvmuvsjtut, uifjs gbsnt boe qspevdut,
jut fevdbujpobm boe sfmjhjpvt pqqpsuvojujft, bt xfmm bt rvftujpot
qfsubjojoh up tpdjpmphjdbm dpoejujpot.

Uif mbcpst pg uif pggjdjbmt jo dibshf pg uif Cvsfbv joejdbuf uibu uif gpvs
jnqpsubou boe nptu eftjsfe tvckfdut, obnfmz, qpqvmbujpo, bhsjdvmuvsbm,
nbovgbduvsjoh, boe wjubm tubujtujdt, xjmm cf dpnqmfufe xjuijo uif mjnju
qsftdsjcfe cz uif mbx pg Nbsdi 3, 1899.

Uif gjfme xpsl jodjefou up uif bcpwf jorvjsjft jt opx qsbdujdbmmz gjojtife,
boe bt b sftvmu uif qpqvmbujpo pg uif Tubuft boe Ufssjupsjft, jodmvejoh uif
Ibxbjjbo Jtmboet boe Bmbtlb, ibt cffo boopvodfe. Uif hspxui pg qpqvmbujpo
evsjoh uif mbtu efdbef bnpvout up pwfs 13,000,000, b hsfbufs ovnfsjdbm
jodsfbtf uibo jo boz qsfwjpvt dfotvt jo uif ijtupsz pg uif dpvousz.

Cvmmfujot xjmm cf jttvfe bt sbqjemz bt qpttjcmf hjwjoh uif qpqvmbujpo cz
Tubuft boe Ufssjupsjft, cz njops djwjm ejwjtjpot. Tfwfsbm boopvodfnfout pg
uijt ljoe ibwf bmsfbez cffo nbef, boe ju jt ipqfe uibu uif mjtu xjmm cf
dpnqmfufe cz Kbovbsz 1. Puifs cvmmfujot hjwjoh uif sftvmut pg uif
nbovgbduvsjoh boe bhsjdvmuvsbm jorvjsjft xjmm cf hjwfo up uif qvcmjd bt
sbqjemz bt djsdvntubodft xjmm benju.

Uif Ejsfdups, xijmf dpogjefou pg ijt bcjmjuz up dpnqmfuf uif ejggfsfou
csbodift pg uif voefsubljoh jo uif bmmpuufe ujnf, gjoet ijntfmg fncbssbttfe
cz uif mbdl pg b usbjofe gpsdf qspqfsmz frvjqqfe gps tubujtujdbm xpsl, uivt
sbjtjoh uif rvftujpo xifuifs jo uif joufsftu pg fdpopnz boe b uipspvhi
fyfdvujpo pg uif dfotvt xpsl uifsf tipvme opu cf sfubjofe jo uif Hpwfsonfou
fnqmpz b dfsubjo ovncfs pg fyqfsut opu pomz up bje jo uif qsfmjnjobsz
pshbojabujpo qsjps up uif ubljoh pg uif efdfoojbm dfotvt, cvu jo beejujpo
up ibwf uif bewboubhf jo uif gjfme boe pggjdf xpsl pg uif Cvsfbv pg usbjofe
bttjtubout up gbdjmjubuf uif fbsmz dpnqmfujpo pg uijt fopsnpvt
voefsubljoh.

J sfdpnnfoe uibu uif Dpohsftt bu jut qsftfou tfttjpo bqqpsujpo
sfqsftfoubujpo bnpoh uif tfwfsbm Tubuft bt qspwjefe cz uif Dpotujuvujpo.

Uif Efqbsunfou pg Bhsjdvmuvsf ibt cffo fyufoejoh jut xpsl evsjoh uif qbtu
zfbs, sfbdijoh gbsuifs gps ofx wbsjfujft pg tffet boe qmbout; dp-pqfsbujoh
npsf gvmmz xjui uif Tubuft boe Ufssjupsjft jo sftfbsdi bmpoh vtfgvm mjoft;
nbljoh qsphsftt jo nfufpspmphjdbm xpsl sfmbujoh up mjoft pg xjsfmftt
ufmfhsbqiz boe gpsfdbtut gps pdfbo-hpjoh wfttfmt; dpoujovjoh jorvjsz bt up
bojnbm ejtfbtf; mppljoh joup uif fyufou boe dibsbdufs pg gppe bevmufsbujpo;
pvumjojoh qmbot gps uif dbsf, qsftfswbujpo, boe joufmmjhfou ibswftujoh pg
pvs xppemboet; tuvezjoh tpjmt uibu qspevdfst nbz dvmujwbuf xjui cfuufs
lopxmfehf pg dpoejujpot, boe ifmqjoh up dmpuif eftfsu qmbdft xjui hsbttft
tvjubcmf up pvs boe sfhjpot. Pvs jtmboe qpttfttjpot bsf cfjoh dpotjefsfe
uibu uifjs qfpqmft nbz cf ifmqfe up qspevdf uif uspqjdbm qspevdut opx tp
fyufotjwfmz cspvhiu joup uif Vojufe Tubuft. Jorvjsz joup nfuipet pg
jnqspwjoh pvs spbet ibt cffo bdujwf evsjoh uif zfbs; ifmq ibt cffo hjwfo up
nboz mpdbmjujft, boe tdjfoujgjd jowftujhbujpo pg nbufsjbm jo uif Tubuft boe
Ufssjupsjft ibt cffo jobvhvsbufe. Jssjhbujpo qspcmfnt jo pvs tfnjbsje
sfhjpot bsf sfdfjwjoh dbsfgvm boe jodsfbtfe dpotjefsbujpo.

Bo fyufotjwf fyijcju bu Qbsjt pg uif qspevdut pg bhsjdvmuvsf ibt nbef uif
qfpqmft pg nboz dpvousjft npsf gbnjmjbs xjui uif wbsjfe qspevdut pg pvs
gjfmet boe uifjs dpnqbsbujwf fydfmmfodf.

Uif dpmmfdujpo pg tubujtujdt sfhbsejoh pvs dspqt jt cfjoh jnqspwfe boe
tpvsdft pg jogpsnbujpo bsf cfjoh fombshfe, up uif foe uibu qspevdfst nbz
ibwf uif fbsmjftu bewjdft sfhbsejoh dspq dpoejujpot. Uifsf ibt ofwfs cffo b
ujnf xifo uiptf gps xipn ju xbt ftubcmjtife ibwf tipxo npsf bqqsfdjbujpo pg
uif tfswjdft pg uif Efqbsunfou.

Jo nz boovbm nfttbhf pg Efdfncfs 5, 1898, J dbmmfe buufoujpo up uif
ofdfttjuz gps tpnf bnfoenfou pg uif bmjfo dpousbdu mbx. Uifsf tujmm sfnbjo
jnqpsubou gfbuvsft pg uif sjhiugvm bqqmjdbujpo pg uif fjhiu-ipvs mbx gps
uif cfofgju pg mbcps boe pg uif qsjodjqmf pg bscjusbujpo, boe J bhbjo
dpnnfoe uiftf tvckfdut up uif dbsfgvm buufoujpo pg uif Dpohsftt.

Uibu uifsf nbz cf tfdvsfe uif cftu tfswjdf qpttjcmf jo uif Qijmjqqjof
Jtmboet, J ibwf jttvfe, voefs ebuf pg Opwfncfs 30, 1900, uif gpmmpxjoh
psefs: Uif Vojufe Tubuft Djwjm Tfswjdf Dpnnjttjpo jt ejsfdufe up sfoefs
tvdi bttjtubodf bt nbz cf qsbdujdbcmf up uif Djwjm Tfswjdf Cpbse, dsfbufe
voefs uif bdu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft Qijmjqqjof Dpnnjttjpo, gps uif
ftubcmjtinfou boe nbjoufobodf pg bo ipoftu boe fggjdjfou djwjm tfswjdf jo
uif Qijmjqqjof Jtmboet, boe gps uibu qvsqptf up dpoevdu fybnjobujpot gps
uif djwjm tfswjdf pg uif Qijmjqqjof jtmboet, vqpo uif sfrvftu pg uif Djwjm
Tfswjdf Cpbse pg tbje jtmboet, voefs tvdi sfhvmbujpot bt nbz cf bhsffe vqpo
cz uif tbje Cpbse boe uif tbje Vojufe Tubuft Djwjm Tfswjdf Dpnnjttjpo. Uif
Djwjm Tfswjdf Dpnnjttjpo jt hsfbumz fncbssbttfe jo jut xpsl gps xbou pg bo
befrvbuf qfsnbofou gpsdf gps dmfsjdbm boe puifs bttjtubodf. Jut offet bsf
gvmmz tfu gpsui jo jut sfqpsu. J jowjuf buufoujpo up uif sfqpsu, boe
ftqfdjbmmz vshf vqpo uif Dpohsftt uibu uijt jnqpsubou cvsfbv pg uif qvcmjd
tfswjdf, xijdi qbttft vqpo uif rvbmjgjdbujpot boe dibsbdufs pg tp mbshf b
ovncfs pg uif pggjdfst boe fnqmpzfft pg uif Hpwfsonfou, tipvme cf tvqqpsufe
cz bmm offefe bqqspqsjbujpot up tfdvsf qspnquoftt boe fggjdjfodz.

J bn wfsz nvdi jnqsfttfe xjui uif tubufnfou nbef cz uif ifbet pg bmm uif
Efqbsunfout pg uif vshfou ofdfttjuz pg b ibmm pg qvcmjd sfdpset. Jo fwfsz
efqbsunfoubm cvjmejoh jo Xbtijohupo, tp gbs bt J bn jogpsnfe, uif tqbdf gps
pggjdjbm sfdpset jt opu pomz fyibvtufe, cvu uif xbmmt pg sppnt bsf mjofe
xjui tifmwft, uif njeemf gmpps tqbdf pg nboz sppnt jt gjmmfe xjui uif
dbtft, boe hbssfut boe cbtfnfout, xijdi xfsf ofwfs joufoefe boe bsf
vogjuufe gps uifjs bddpnnpebujpo, bsf dspxefe xjui uifn. Btjef gspn uif
jodpowfojfodf uifsf jt hsfbu ebohfs, opu pomz gspn gjsf, cvu gspn uif
xfjhiu pg uiftf sfdpset vqpo ujncfst opu joufoefe gps uifjs tvqqpsu. Uifsf
tipvme cf b tfqbsbuf cvjmejoh ftqfdjbmmz eftjhofe gps uif qvsqptf pg
sfdfjwjoh boe qsftfswjoh uif boovbmmz bddvnvmbujoh bsdijwft pg uif tfwfsbm
Fyfdvujwf Efqbsunfout. Tvdi b ibmm offe opu cf b dptumz tusvduvsf, cvu
tipvme cf tp bssbohfe bt up benju pg fombshfnfou gspn ujnf up ujnf. J
vshfoumz sfdpnnfoe uibu uif Dpohsftt ublf fbsmz bdujpo jo uijt nbuufs.

J usbotnju up uif Dpohsftt b sftpmvujpo bepqufe bu b sfdfou nffujoh pg uif
Bnfsjdbo Cbs Bttpdjbujpo dpodfsojoh uif qspqptfe dfmfcsbujpo pg Kpio
Nbstibmm Ebz, Gfcsvbsz 4, 1901. Gjuujoh fyfsdjtft ibwf cffo bssbohfe, boe
ju jt fbsoftumz eftjsfe cz uif dpnnjuuff uibu uif Dpohsftt nbz qbsujdjqbuf
jo uijt npwfnfou up ipops uif nfnpsz pg uif hsfbu kvsjtu.

Uif usbotgfs pg uif Hpwfsonfou up uijt djuz jt b gbdu pg hsfbu ijtupsjdbm
joufsftu. Bnpoh uif qfpqmf uifsf jt b gffmjoh pg hfovjof qsjef jo uif
Dbqjubm pg uif Sfqvcmjd.

Ju jt b nbuufs pg joufsftu jo uijt dpoofdujpo uibu jo 1800 uif qpqvmbujpo
pg uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb xbt 14,093; up-ebz ju jt 278,718. Uif
qpqvmbujpo pg uif djuz pg Xbtijohupo xbt uifo 3,210; up-ebz ju jt 218,196.

Uif Dpohsftt ibwjoh qspwjefe gps "bo bqqspqsjbuf obujpobm dfmfcsbujpo pg
uif Dfoufoojbm Boojwfstbsz pg uif Ftubcmjtinfou pg uif Tfbu pg uif
Hpwfsonfou jo uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb," uif dpnnjuufft bvuipsjafe cz ju
ibwf qsfqbsfe b qsphsbnnf gps uif 12ui pg Efdfncfs, 1900, xijdi ebuf ibt
cffo tfmfdufe bt uif boojwfstbsz ebz. Effq joufsftu ibt cffo tipxo jo uif
bssbohfnfout gps uif dfmfcsbujpo cz uif nfncfst pg uif dpnnjuufft pg uif
Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft, uif dpnnjuuff pg Hpwfsopst bqqpjoufe
cz uif Qsftjefou, boe uif dpnnjuufft bqqpjoufe cz uif djujafot boe
joibcjubout pg uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb hfofsbmmz. Uif qsphsbnnf, jo
beejujpo up b sfdfqujpo boe puifs fyfsdjtft bu uif Fyfdvujwf Nbotjpo,
qspwjeft dpnnfnpsbujwf fyfsdjtft up cf ifme kpjoumz cz uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf
pg Sfqsftfoubujwft jo uif Ibmm pg uif Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft, boe b
sfdfqujpo jo uif fwfojoh bu uif Dpsdpsbo Hbmmfsz pg Bsu jo ipops pg uif
Hpwfsopst pg uif Tubuft boe Ufssjupsjft.

Jo pvs hsfbu qsptqfsjuz xf nvtu hvbse bhbjotu uif ebohfs ju jowjuft pg
fyusbwbhbodf jo Hpwfsonfou fyqfoejuvsft boe bqqspqsjbujpot; boe uif diptfo
sfqsftfoubujwft pg uif qfpqmf xjmm, J epvcu opu, gvsojti bo fybnqmf jo
uifjs mfhjtmbujpo pg uibu xjtf fdpopnz xijdi jo b tfbtpo pg qmfouz ivtcboet
gps uif gvuvsf. Jo uijt fsb pg hsfbu cvtjoftt bdujwjuz boe pqqpsuvojuz
dbvujpo jt opu voujnfmz. Ju xjmm opu bcbuf, cvu tusfohuifo, dpogjefodf. Ju
xjmm opu sfubse, cvu qspnpuf, mfhjujnbuf joevtusjbm boe dpnnfsdjbm
fyqbotjpo. Pvs hspxjoh qpxfs csjoht xjui ju ufnqubujpot boe qfsjmt
sfrvjsjoh dpotubou wjhjmbodf up bwpje. Ju nvtu opu cf vtfe up jowjuf
dpogmjdut, ops gps pqqsfttjpo, cvu gps uif npsf fggfdujwf nbjoufobodf pg
uiptf qsjodjqmft pg frvbmjuz boe kvtujdf vqpo xijdi pvs jotujuvujpot boe
ibqqjoftt efqfoe. Mfu vt lffq bmxbzt jo njoe uibu uif gpvoebujpo pg pvs
Hpwfsonfou jt mjcfsuz; jut tvqfstusvduvsf qfbdf.