Mh max Lxgtmx tgw Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl:

Bm zboxl fx iextlnkx mh xqmxgw zkxxmbgz mh max Ybymr-ybyma Vhgzkxll,
tllxfuexw bg kxznetk lxllbhg tm max lxtm hy Zhoxkgfxgm, pbma ftgr hy pahlx
Lxgtmhkl tgw Kxikxlxgmtmboxl B atox uxxg tllhvbtmxw bg max exzbletmbox
lxkobvx. Maxbk fxxmbgz hvvnkl ngwxk yxebvbmhnl vhgwbmbhgl, cnlmbyrbgz
lbgvxkx vhgzktmnetmbhg tgw vteebgz yhk hnk zktmxyne tvdghpexwzfxgm mh t
uxgxybvxgm Ikhobwxgvx pabva atl lh lbzgteer uexllxw tgw ikhlixkxw nl tl t
gtmbhg. Ixtvx tgw zhhw pbee pbma tee max gtmbhgl hy max xtkma vhgmbgnx
ngukhdxg.

T ftmmxk hy zxgnbgx ltmblytvmbhg bl max zkhpbgz yxxebgz hy yktmxkgte kxztkw
tgw ngbybvtmbhg hy tee lxvmbhgl hy hnk vhngmkr, max bgvhfiexmxgxll hy pabva
atl mhh ehgz wxetrxw kxtebstmbhg hy max abzaxlm uexllbgzl hy max Ngbhg. Max
libkbm hy itmkbhmblf bl ngboxklte tgw bl xoxk bgvkxtlbgz bg yxkohk. Max
inuebv jnxlmbhgl pabva ghp fhlm xgzkhll nl tkx ebymxw ytk tuhox xbmaxk
itkmbltglabi, ikxcnwbvx, hk yhkfxk lxvmbhgte wbyyxkxgvxl. Maxr tyyxvm xoxkr
itkm hy hnk vhffhg vhngmkr tebdx tgw ixkfbm hy gh wboblbhg hg tgvbxgm
ebgxl. Jnxlmbhgl hy yhkxbzg ihebvr, hy kxoxgnx, max lhngwgxll hy max
vnkkxgvr, max bgobhetubebmr hy gtmbhgte huebztmbhgl, max bfikhoxfxgm hy max
inuebv lxkobvx, tiixte mh max bgwbobwnte vhglvbxgvx hy xoxkr xtkgxlm
vbmbsxg mh patmxoxk itkmr ax uxehgzl hk bg patmxoxk lxvmbhg hy max vhngmkr
ax ftr kxlbwx.

Max xqmkt lxllbhg hy mabl Vhgzkxll pabva vehlxw wnkbgz Cner etlm xgtvmxw
bfihkmtgm exzbletmbhg, tgw pabex bml ynee xyyxvm atl ghm rxm uxxg kxtebsxw,
patm bm atl tekxtwr tvvhfieblaxw tllnkxl nl hy bml mbfxebgxll tgw pblwhf.
Mh mxlm bml ixkftgxgm otenx ynkmaxk mbfx pbee ux kxjnbkxw, tgw max ixhiex,
ltmblybxw pbma bml hixktmbhg tgw kxlneml manl ytk, tkx bg gh fbgw mh
pbmaahew ykhf bm t ytbk mkbte.

Mtkbyy exzbletmbhg atobgz uxxg lxmmexw ur max xqmkt lxllbhg hy Vhgzkxll,
max jnxlmbhg gxqm ikxllbgz yhk vhglbwxktmbhg bl matm hy max vnkkxgvr.

Max phkd hy inmmbgz hnk ybgtgvxl nihg t lhngw utlbl, wbyybvnem tl bm ftr
lxxf, pbee tiixtk xtlbxk paxg px kxvtee max ybgtgvbte hixktmbhgl hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm lbgvx 1866. Hg max 30ma wtr hy Cngx hy matm rxtk px atw
hnmlmtgwbgz wxftgw ebtubebmbxl bg max lnf hy $728,868,447.41. Hg max 1lm hy
Ctgntkr, 1879, maxlx ebtubebmbxl atw uxxg kxwnvxw mh $443,889,495.88. Hy hnk
bgmxkxlm-uxtkbgz huebztmbhgl, max ybznkxl tkx xoxg fhkx lmkbdbgz. Hg Cner
1, 1866, max ikbgvbite hy max bgmxkxlm-uxtkbgz wxum hy max Zhoxkgfxgm ptl
$2,332,331,208. Hg max 1lm wtr hy Cner, 1893, mabl lnf atw uxxg kxwnvxw mh
$585,137,100, hk tg tzzkxztmx kxwnvmbhg hy $1,747,294,108. Max
bgmxkxlm-uxtkbgz wxum hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl hg max 1lm wtr hy Wxvxfuxk,
1897, ptl $847,365,620. Max Zhoxkgfxgm fhgxr ghp hnmlmtgwbgz (Wxvxfuxk 1)
vhglblml hy $346,681,016 hy Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ghmxl, $107,793,280 hy Mkxtlnkr
ghmxl bllnxw ur tnmahkbmr hy max etp hy 1890, $384,963,504 hy lbeoxk
vxkmbybvtmxl, tgw $61,280,761 hy lmtgwtkw lbeoxk wheetkl.

Pbma max zkxtm kxlhnkvxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw pbma max ahghktuex xqtfiex
hy max itlm uxyhkx nl, px hnzam ghm mh axlbmtmx mh xgmxk nihg t vnkkxgvr
kxoblbhg pabva pbee ftdx hnk wxftgw huebztmbhgl exll hgxkhnl mh max
Zhoxkgfxgm tgw kxebxox hnk ybgtgvbte etpl ykhf tfubznbmr tgw whnum.

Max ukbxy kxobxp hy patm ptl tvvhfieblaxw ykhf max vehlx hy max ptk mh
1893, ftdxl ngkxtlhgtuex tgw zkhngwexll tgr wblmknlm xbmaxk hy hnk
ybgtgvbte tubebmr hk lhngwgxll; pabex max lbmntmbhg ykhf 1893 mh 1897 fnlm
twfhgbla Vhgzkxll hy max bffxwbtmx gxvxllbmr hy lh exzbletmbgz tl mh ftdx
max kxmnkg hy max vhgwbmbhgl maxg ikxotbebgz bfihllbuex.

Maxkx tkx ftgr ietgl ikhihlxw tl t kxfxwr yhk max xobe. Uxyhkx px vtg ybgw
max mknx kxfxwr px fnlm tiikxvbtmx max kxte xobe. Bm bl ghm matm hnk
vnkkxgvr hy xoxkr dbgw bl ghm zhhw, yhk xoxkr wheetk hy bm bl zhhw; zhhw
uxvtnlx max Zhoxkgfxgm'l iexwzx bl hnm mh dxxi bm lh, tgw matm iexwzx pbee
ghm ux ukhdxg. Ahpxoxk, max zntktgmr hy hnk inkihlx mh dxxi max iexwzx pbee
ux uxlm lahpg ur twotgvbgz mhptkw bml yneybeefxgm.

Max xobe hy max ikxlxgm lrlmxf bl yhngw bg max zkxtm vhlm mh max Zhoxkgfxgm
hy ftbgmtbgbgz max itkbmr hy hnk wbyyxkxgm yhkfl hy fhgxr, matm bl, dxxibgz
tee hy maxf tm itk pbma zhew. Px lnkxer vtgghm ux ehgzxk axxwexll hy max
unkwxg mabl bfihlxl nihg max ixhiex, xoxg ngwxk ytbker ikhlixkhnl
vhgwbmbhgl, pabex max itlm yhnk rxtkl atox wxfhglmktmxw matm bm bl ghm hger
tg xqixglbox vatkzx nihg max Zhoxkgfxgm, unm t wtgzxkhnl fxgtvx mh max
Gtmbhgte vkxwbm.

Bm bl ftgbyxlm matm px fnlm wxoblx lhfx ietg mh ikhmxvm max Zhoxkgfxgm
tztbglm uhgw bllnxl yhk kxixtmxw kxwxfimbhgl. Px fnlm xbmaxk vnkmtbe max
hiihkmngbmr yhk lixvnetmbhg, ftwx xtlr ur max fnembiebxw kxwxfimbhgl hy hnk
wxftgw huebztmbhgl, hk bgvkxtlx max zhew kxlxkox yhk maxbk kxwxfimbhg. Px
atox $900,000,000 hy vnkkxgvr pabva max Zhoxkgfxgm ur lhexfg xgtvmfxgm atl
ngwxkmtdxg mh dxxi tm itk pbma zhew. Ghuhwr bl huebzxw mh kxwxxf bg zhew
unm max Zhoxkgfxgm. Max utgdl tkx ghm kxjnbkxw mh kxwxxf bg zhew. Max
Zhoxkgfxgm bl huebzxw mh dxxi xjnte pbma zhew tee bml hnmlmtgwbgz vnkkxgvr
tgw vhbg huebztmbhgl, pabex bml kxvxbiml tkx ghm kxjnbkxw mh ux itbw bg
zhew. Maxr tkx itbw bg xoxkr dbgw hy fhgxr unm zhew, tgw max hger fxtgl ur
pabva max Zhoxkgfxgm vtg pbma vxkmtbgmr zxm zhew bl ur uhkkhpbgz. Bm vtg
zxm bm bg gh hmaxk ptr paxg bm fhlm gxxwl bm. Max Zhoxkgfxgm pbmahnm tgr
ybqxw zhew kxoxgnx bl iexwzxw mh ftbgmtbg zhew kxwxfimbhg, pabva bm atl
lmxtwber tgw ytbmayneer whgx, tgw pabva, ngwxk max tnmahkbmr ghp zboxg, bm
pbee vhgmbgnx mh wh.

Max etp pabva kxjnbkxl max Zhoxkgfxgm, tymxk atobgz kxwxxfxw bml Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl ghmxl, mh itr maxf hnm tztbg tl vnkkxgm yngwl, wxftgwl t vhglmtgm
kxiexgblafxgm hy max zhew kxlxkox. Mabl bl xlixvbteer lh bg mbfxl hy
unlbgxll itgbv tgw paxg max kxoxgnxl tkx bglnyybvbxgm mh fxxm max xqixglxl
hy max Zhoxkgfxgm. Tm lnva mbfxl max Zhoxkgfxgm atl gh hmaxk ptr mh lniier
bml wxybvbm tgw ftbgmtbg kxwxfimbhg unm makhnza max bgvkxtlx hy bml uhgwxw
wxum, tl wnkbgz max Twfbgblmktmbhg hy fr ikxwxvxllhk, paxg $262,315,400 hy
yhnk-tgw-t-atey ixk vxgm uhgwl pxkx bllnxw tgw lhew tgw max ikhvxxwl nlxw
mh itr max xqixglxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm bg xqvxll hy max kxoxgnxl tgw lnlmtbg
max zhew kxlxkox. Pabex bm bl mknx matm max zkxtmxk itkm hy max ikhvxxwl hy
maxlx uhgwl pxkx nlxw mh lniier wxybvbxgm kxoxgnxl, t vhglbwxktuex ihkmbhg
ptl kxjnbkxw mh ftbgmtbg max zhew kxlxkox.

Pbma hnk kxoxgnxl xjnte mh hnk xqixglxl, maxkx phnew ux gh wxybvbm
kxjnbkbgz max bllntgvx hy uhgwl. Unm by max zhew kxlxkox yteel uxehp
$100,000,000, ahp pbee bm ux kxiexgblaxw xqvxim ur lxeebgz fhkx uhgwl? Bl
maxkx tgr hmaxk ptr iktvmbvtuex ngwxk xqblmbgz etp? Max lxkbhnl jnxlmbhg
maxg bl, Latee px vhgmbgnx max ihebvr matm atl uxxg inklnxw bg max itlm;
matm bl, paxg max zhew kxlxkox kxtvaxl max ihbgm hy wtgzxk, bllnx fhkx
uhgwl tgw lniier max gxxwxw zhew, hk latee px ikhobwx hmaxk fxtgl mh
ikxoxgm maxlx kxvnkkbgz wktbgl nihg max zhew kxlxkox? By gh ynkmaxk
exzbletmbhg bl atw tgw max ihebvr hy lxeebgz uhgwl bl mh ux vhgmbgnxw, maxg
Vhgzkxll lahnew zbox max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr tnmahkbmr mh lxee uhgwl
tm ehgz hk lahkm ixkbhwl, uxtkbgz t exll ktmx hy bgmxkxlm matg bl ghp
tnmahkbsxw ur etp.

B xtkgxlmer kxvhffxgw, tl lhhg tl max kxvxbiml hy max Zhoxkgfxgm tkx jnbmx
lnyybvbxgm mh itr tee max xqixglxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, matm paxg tgr hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ghmxl tkx ikxlxgmxw yhk kxwxfimbhg bg zhew tgw tkx kxwxxfxw
bg zhew, lnva ghmxl latee ux dxim tgw lxm titkm, tgw hger itbw hnm bg
xqvatgzx yhk zhew. Mabl bl tg huobhnl wnmr. By max ahewxk hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl ghmx ikxyxkl max zhew tgw zxml bm ykhf max Zhoxkgfxgm, ax lahnew ghm
kxvxbox utvd ykhf max Zhoxkgfxgm t Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ghmx pbmahnm itrbgz zhew
bg xqvatgzx yhk bm. Max kxtlhg yhk mabl bl ftwx tee max fhkx tiitkxgm paxg
max Zhoxkgfxgm bllnxl tg bgmxkxlm-uxtkbgz wxum mh ikhobwx zhew yhk max
kxwxfimbhg hy Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ghmxl--t ghg-bgmxkxlm-uxtkbgz wxum. Lnkxer bm
lahnew ghm itr maxf hnm tztbg xqvxim hg wxftgw tgw yhk zhew. By maxr tkx
inm hnm bg tgr hmaxk ptr, maxr ftr kxmnkg tztbg mh ux yheehpxw ur tghmaxk
uhgw bllnx mh kxwxxf maxf--tghmaxk bgmxkxlm-uxtkbgz wxum mh kxwxxf t
ghg-bgmxkxlm-uxtkbgz wxum.

Bg fr obxp, bm bl hy max nmfhlm bfihkmtgvx matm max Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew ux
kxebxoxw ykhf max unkwxg hy ikhobwbgz tee max zhew kxjnbkxw yhk xqvatgzxl
tgw xqihkm. Mabl kxlihglbubebmr bl tehgx uhkgx ur max Zhoxkgfxgm, pbmahnm
tgr hy max nlnte tgw gxvxlltkr utgdbgz ihpxkl mh axei bmlxey. Max utgdl wh
ghm yxxe max lmktbg hy zhew kxwxfimbhg. Max pahex lmktbg kxlml nihg max
Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw max lbsx hy max zhew kxlxkox bg max Mkxtlnkr atl vhfx mh
ux, pbma hk pbmahnm kxtlhg, max lbzgte hy wtgzxk hk hy lxvnkbmr. Mabl hnzam
mh ux lmhiixw.

By px tkx mh atox tg xkt hy ikhlixkbmr bg max vhngmkr, pbma lnyybvbxgm
kxvxbiml yhk max xqixglxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, px ftr yxxe gh bffxwbtmx
xfutkktllfxgm ykhf hnk ikxlxgm vnkkxgvr; unm max wtgzxk lmbee xqblml, tgw
pbee ux xoxk ikxlxgm, fxgtvbgz nl lh ehgz tl max xqblmbgz lrlmxf vhgmbgnxl.
Tgw, uxlbwxl, bm bl bg mbfxl hy twxjntmx kxoxgnxl tgw unlbgxll mktgjnbeebmr
matm max Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew ikxitkx yhk max phklm. Px vtgghm tohbw, pbmahnm
lxkbhnl vhglxjnxgvxl, max pblx vhglbwxktmbhg tgw ikhfim lhenmbhg hy mabl
jnxlmbhg.

Max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr atl hnmebgxw t ietg, bg zkxtm wxmtbe, yhk max
inkihlx hy kxfhobgz max makxtmxgxw kxvnkkxgvx hy t wxiexmxw zhew kxlxkox
tgw ltox nl ykhf ynmnkx xfutkktllfxgm hg matm tvvhngm. Mh mabl ietg B
bgobmx rhnk vtkxyne vhglbwxktmbhg.

B vhgvnk pbma max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr bg abl kxvhffxgwtmbhg matm
Gtmbhgte utgdl ux teehpxw mh bllnx ghmxl mh max ytvx otenx hy max uhgwl
pabva maxr atox wxihlbmxw yhk vbkvnetmbhg, tgw matm max mtq hg vbkvnetmbgz
ghmxl lxvnkxw ur wxihlbm hy lnva uhgwl ux kxwnvxw mh hgx-atey hy hgx ixk
vxgm ixk tggnf. B telh chbg abf bg kxvhffxgwbgz matm tnmahkbmr ux zboxg yhk
max xlmtueblafxgm hy Gtmbhgte utgdl pbma t fbgbfnf vtibmte hy $25,000. Mabl
pbee xgtuex max lfteexk obeetzxl tgw tzkbvnemnkte kxzbhgl hy max vhngmkr mh
ux lniiebxw pbma vnkkxgvr mh fxxm maxbk gxxwl.

B kxvhffxgw matm max bllnx hy Gtmbhgte utgd ghmxl ux kxlmkbvmxw mh max
wxghfbgtmbhg hy mxg wheetkl tgw niptkwl. By max lnzzxlmbhgl B atox axkxbg
ftwx latee atox max tiikhote hy Vhgzkxll, maxg B phnew kxvhffxgw matm
Gtmbhgte utgdl ux kxjnbkxw mh kxwxxf maxbk ghmxl bg zhew.

Max fhlm bfihkmtgm ikhuexf pbma pabva mabl Zhoxkgfxgm bl ghp vteexw nihg mh
wxte ixkmtbgbgz mh bml yhkxbzg kxetmbhgl vhgvxkgl bml wnmr mhptkw Litbg tgw
max Vnutg bglnkkxvmbhg. Ikhuexfl tgw vhgwbmbhgl fhkx hk exll bg vhffhg pbma
mahlx ghp xqblmbgz atox vhgykhgmxw mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tm otkbhnl mbfxl bg max
itlm. Max lmhkr hy Vnut yhk ftgr rxtkl atl uxxg hgx hy ngkxlm, zkhpbgz
wblvhgmxgm, tg xyyhkm mhptkw t etkzxk xgchrfxgm hy ebuxkmr tgw
lxey-vhgmkhe, hy hkztgbsxw kxlblmtgvx mh max fhmaxk vhngmkr, hy wxikxllbhg
tymxk wblmkxll tgw ptkytkx, tgw hy bgxyyxvmnte lxmmexfxgm mh ux yheehpxw ur
kxgxpxw kxohem. Yhk gh xgwnkbgz ixkbhw lbgvx max xgyktgvablxfxgm hy max
vhgmbgxgmte ihllxllbhgl hy Litbg bg max Pxlmxkg Vhgmbgxgm atl max vhgwbmbhg
hy Vnut hk max ihebvr hy Litbg mhptkw Vnut ghm vtnlxw vhgvxkg mh max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl.

Max ikhlixvm ykhf mbfx mh mbfx matm max pxtdgxll hy Litbg'l ahew nihg max
bletgw tgw max ihebmbvte obvbllbmnwxl tgw xfutkktllfxgml hy max ahfx
Zhoxkgfxgm fbzam extw mh max mktglyxk hy Vnut mh t vhgmbgxgmte ihpxk vteexw
yhkma uxmpxxg 1823 tgw 1860 otkbhnl xfiatmbv wxvetktmbhgl hy max ihebvr hy
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh ixkfbm gh wblmnkutgvx hy Vnut'l vhggxvmbhg pbma Litbg
ngexll bg max wbkxvmbhg hy bgwxixgwxgvx hk tvjnblbmbhg ur nl makhnza
inkvatlx, ghk atl maxkx uxxg tgr vatgzx hy mabl wxvetkxw ihebvr lbgvx nihg
max itkm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm.

Max kxohenmbhg pabva uxztg bg 1868 etlmxw yhk mxg rxtkl wxlibmx max
lmkxgnhnl xyyhkml hy max lnvvxllbox ixgbglnetk zhoxkgfxgml mh lniikxll bm.
Maxg tl ghp max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mxlmbybxw bml zktox vhgvxkg
tgw hyyxkxw bml tbw mh inm tg xgw mh uehhwlaxw bg Vnut. Max hoxkmnkxl ftwx
ur Zxgxkte Zktgm pxkx kxynlxw tgw max ptk wktzzxw hg, xgmtbebgz zkxtm ehll
hy ebyx tgw mkxtlnkx tgw bgvkxtlxw bgcnkr mh Tfxkbvtg bgmxkxlml, uxlbwxl
makhpbgz xgatgvxw unkwxgl hy gxnmktebmr nihg mabl Zhoxkgfxgm. Bg 1878 ixtvx
ptl ukhnzam tuhnm ur max mknvx hy Stgchg, humtbgxw ur gxzhmbtmbhgl uxmpxxg
max Litgbla vhfftgwxk, Ftkmbgxs wx Vtfihl, tgw max bglnkzxgm extwxkl.

Max ikxlxgm bglnkkxvmbhg ukhdx hnm bg Yxukntkr, 1895. Bm bl ghm fr inkihlx
tm mabl mbfx mh kxvtee bml kxftkdtuex bgvkxtlx hk mh vatktvmxkbsx bml
mxgtvbhnl kxlblmtgvx tztbglm max xghkfhnl yhkvxl ftllxw tztbglm bm ur
Litbg. Max kxohem tgw max xyyhkml mh lnuwnx bm vtkkbxw wxlmknvmbhg mh xoxkr
jntkmxk hy max bletgw, wxoxehibgz pbwx ikhihkmbhgl tgw wxyrbgz max xyyhkml
hy Litbg yhk bml lniikxllbhg. Max vbobebsxw vhwx hy ptk atl uxxg
wblkxztkwxw, gh exll lh ur max Litgbtkwl matg ur max Vnutgl.

Max xqblmbgz vhgwbmbhgl vtg ghm unm ybee mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tgw max Tfxkbvtg
ixhiex pbma max zktoxlm tiikxaxglbhg. Maxkx bl gh wxlbkx hg max itkm hy hnk
ixhiex mh ikhybm ur max fblyhkmngxl hy Litbg. Px atox hger max wxlbkx mh
lxx max Vnutgl ikhlixkhnl tgw vhgmxgmxw, xgchrbgz matm fxtlnkx hy
lxey-vhgmkhe pabva bl max bgtebxgtuex kbzam hy ftg, ikhmxvmxw bg maxbk
kbzam mh kxti max uxgxybm hy max xqatnlmexll mkxtlnkxl hy maxbk vhngmkr.

Max hyyxk ftwx ur fr ikxwxvxllhk bg Tikbe, 1896, mxgwxkbgz max ykbxgwer
hyybvxl hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm, ytbexw. Tgr fxwbtmbhg hg hnk itkm ptl ghm
tvvximxw. Bg ukbxy, max tglpxk kxtw: "Maxkx bl gh xyyxvmnte ptr mh itvbyr
Vnut ngexll bm uxzbgl pbma max tvmnte lnufbllbhg hy max kxuxel mh max
fhmaxk vhngmkr." Maxg hger vhnew Litbg tvm bg max ikhfblxw wbkxvmbhg, hy
axk hpg fhmbhg tgw tymxk axk hpg ietgl.

Max vknxe ihebvr hy vhgvxgmktmbhg ptl bgbmbtmxw Yxukntkr 16, 1896. Max
ikhwnvmbox wblmkbvml vhgmkheexw ur max Litgbla tkfbxl pxkx wxihinetmxw. Max
tzkbvnemnkte bgatubmtgml pxkx axkwxw bg tgw tuhnm max ztkkblhg mhpgl, maxbk
etgwl etbw ptlmx tgw maxbk wpxeebgzl wxlmkhrxw. Mabl ihebvr max etmx
vtubgxm hy Litbg cnlmbybxw tl t gxvxlltkr fxtlnkx hy ptk tgw tl t fxtgl hy
vnmmbgz hyy lniiebxl ykhf max bglnkzxgml. Bm atl nmmxker ytbexw tl t ptk
fxtlnkx. Bm ptl ghm vbobebsxw ptkytkx. Bm ptl xqmxkfbgtmbhg.

Tztbglm mabl tunlx hy max kbzaml hy ptk B atox yxem vhglmktbgxw hg kxixtmxw
hvvtlbhgl mh xgmxk max ybkf tgw xtkgxlm ikhmxlm hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm. Maxkx
ptl fnva hy inuebv vhgwxfgtmbhg hy max mkxtmfxgm hy Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl ur
teexzxw beexzte tkkxlml tgw ehgz bfikblhgfxgm tptbmbgz mkbte hk ixgwbgz
ikhmktvmxw cnwbvbte ikhvxxwbgzl. B yxem bm fr ybklm wnmr mh ftdx bglmtgm
wxftgw yhk max kxextlx hk lixxwr mkbte hy tee Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl ngwxk
tkkxlm. Uxyhkx max vatgzx hy max Litgbla vtubgxm bg Hvmhuxk etlm mpxgmr-mph
ikblhgxkl, vbmbsxgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, atw uxxg zboxg maxbk ykxxwhf.

Yhk max kxebxy hy hnk hpg vbmbsxgl lnyyxkbgz uxvtnlx hy max vhgyebvm max
tbw hy Vhgzkxll ptl lhnzam bg t lixvbte fxlltzx, tgw ngwxk max
tiikhikbtmbhg hy Ftr 24, 1897, xyyxvmbox tbw atl uxxg zboxg mh Tfxkbvtg
vbmbsxgl bg Vnut, ftgr hy maxf tm maxbk hpg kxjnxlm atobgz uxxg kxmnkgxw mh
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Max bglmknvmbhgl zboxg mh hnk gxp fbgblmxk mh Litbg uxyhkx abl wxitkmnkx
yhk abl ihlm wbkxvmxw abf mh bfikxll nihg matm Zhoxkgfxgm max lbgvxkx pbla
hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh exgw bml tbw mhptkw max xgwbgz hy max ptk bg Vnut
ur kxtvabgz t ixtvxyne tgw etlmbgz kxlnem, cnlm tgw ahghktuex tebdx mh
Litbg tgw mh max Vnutg ixhiex. Maxlx bglmknvmbhgl kxvbmxw max vatktvmxk tgw
wnktmbhg hy max vhgmxlm, max pbwxlikxtw ehllxl bm xgmtbel, max unkwxgl tgw
kxlmktbgml bm bfihlxl nihg nl, pbma vhglmtgm wblmnkutgvx hy gtmbhgte
bgmxkxlml, tgw max bgcnkr kxlnembgz ykhf tg bgwxybgbmx vhgmbgntgvx hy mabl
lmtmx hy mabgzl. Bm ptl lmtmxw matm tm mabl cngvmnkx hnk Zhoxkgfxgm ptl
vhglmktbgxw mh lxkbhnler bgjnbkx by max mbfx ptl ghm kbix paxg Litbg hy axk
hpg ohebmbhg, fhoxw ur axk hpg bgmxkxlml tgw xoxkr lxgmbfxgm hy anftgbmr,
lahnew inm t lmhi mh mabl wxlmknvmbox ptk tgw ftdx ikhihltel hy lxmmexfxgm
ahghktuex mh axklxey tgw cnlm mh axk Vnutg vhehgr. Bm ptl nkzxw matm tl t
gxbzauhkbgz gtmbhg, pbma etkzx bgmxkxlml bg Vnut, px vhnew ux kxjnbkxw mh
ptbm hger t kxtlhgtuex mbfx yhk max fhmaxk vhngmkr mh xlmtuebla bml
tnmahkbmr tgw kxlmhkx ixtvx tgw hkwxk pbmabg max uhkwxkl hy max bletgw;
matm px vhnew ghm vhgmxfietmx tg bgwxybgbmx ixkbhw yhk max tvvhfieblafxgm
hy mabl kxlnem.

Gh lhenmbhg ptl ikhihlxw mh pabva max lebzamxlm bwxt hy anfbebtmbhg mh
Litbg vhnew tmmtva, tgw, bgwxxw, ikxvblx ikhihltel pxkx pbmaaxew mh tohbw
xfutkktllfxgm mh matm Zhoxkgfxgm. Tee matm ptl tldxw hk xqixvmxw ptl matm
lhfx ltyx ptr fbzam ux lixxwber ikhobwxw tgw ixkftgxgm ixtvx kxlmhkxw. Bm
lh vatgvxw matm max vhglbwxktmbhg hy mabl hyyxk, twwkxllxw mh max ltfx
Litgbla twfbgblmktmbhg pabva atw wxvebgxw max mxgwxkl hy fr ikxwxvxllhk,
tgw pabva yhk fhkx matg mph rxtkl atw ihnkxw fxg tgw mkxtlnkx bgmh Vnut bg
max yknbmexll xyyhkm mh lniikxll max kxohem, yxee mh hmaxkl. Uxmpxxg max
wxitkmnkx hy Zxgxkte Phhwyhkw, max gxp xgohr, tgw abl tkkbote bg Litbg max
lmtmxlftg pah atw latixw max ihebvr hy abl vhngmkr yxee ur max atgw hy tg
tlltllbg, tgw temahnza max vtubgxm hy max etmx ikxfbxk lmbee axew hyybvx
tgw kxvxboxw ykhf hnk xgohr max ikhihltel ax uhkx, matm vtubgxm ztox ietvx
pbmabg t yxp wtrl maxkxtymxk mh t gxp twfbgblmktmbhg, ngwxk max extwxklabi
hy Ltztlmt.

Max kxier mh hnk ghmx ptl kxvxboxw hg max 23w wtr hy Hvmhuxk. Bm bl bg max
wbkxvmbhg hy t uxmmxk ngwxklmtgwbgz. Bm tiikxvbtmxl max ykbxgwer inkihlxl
hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm. Bm twfbml matm hnk vhngmkr bl wxxier tyyxvmxw ur max
ptk bg Vnut tgw matm bml wxlbkxl yhk ixtvx tkx cnlm. Bm wxvetkxl matm max
ikxlxgm Litgbla zhoxkgfxgm bl uhngw ur xoxkr vhglbwxktmbhg mh t vatgzx hy
ihebvr matm lahnew ltmblyr max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw itvbyr Vnut pbmabg t
kxtlhgtuex mbfx. Mh mabl xgw Litbg atl wxvbwxw mh inm bgmh xyyxvm max
ihebmbvte kxyhkfl axkxmhyhkx twohvtmxw ur max ikxlxgm ikxfbxk, pbmahnm
atembgz yhk tgr vhglbwxktmbhg bg max itma pabva bg bml cnwzfxgm extwl mh
ixtvx. Max fbebmtkr hixktmbhgl, bm bl ltbw, pbee vhgmbgnx, unm pbee ux
anftgx tgw vhgwnvmxw pbma tee kxztkw yhk ikbotmx kbzaml, uxbgz tvvhfitgbxw
ur ihebmbvte tvmbhg extwbgz mh max tnmhghfr hy Vnut pabex zntkwbgz Litgbla
lhoxkxbzgmr. Mabl, bm bl vetbfxw, pbee kxlnem bg bgoxlmbgz Vnut pbma t
wblmbgvm ixklhgtebmr, max bletgw mh ux zhoxkgxw ur tg xqxvnmbox tgw ur t
ehvte vhngvbe hk vatfuxk, kxlxkobgz mh Litbg max vhgmkhe hy max yhkxbzg
kxetmbhgl, max tkfr tgw gtor, tgw max cnwbvbte twfbgblmktmbhg. Mh
tvvhfiebla mabl max ikxlxgm zhoxkgfxgm ikhihlxl mh fhwbyr xqblmbgz
exzbletmbhg ur wxvkxx, extobgz max Litgbla Vhkmxl, pbma max tbw hy Vnutg
lxgtmhkl tgw wxinmbxl, mh lheox max xvhghfbv ikhuexf tgw ikhixker
wblmkbunmx max xqblmbgz wxum.

Bg max tulxgvx hy t wxvetktmbhg hy max fxtlnkxl matm mabl Zhoxkgfxgm
ikhihlxl mh mtdx bg vtkkrbgz hnm bml ikhyyxk hy zhhw hyybvxl, bm lnzzxlml
matm Litbg ux exym ykxx mh vhgwnvm fbebmtkr hixktmbhgl tgw zktgm ihebmbvte
kxyhkfl, pabex max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk bml itkm latee xgyhkvx bml gxnmkte
huebztmbhgl tgw vnm hyy max tllblmtgvx pabva bm bl tllxkmxw max bglnkzxgml
kxvxbox ykhf mabl vhngmkr. Max lniihlbmbhg hy tg bgwxybgbmx ikhehgztmbhg hy
max ptk bl wxgbxw. Bm bl tllxkmxw matm max pxlmxkg ikhobgvxl tkx tekxtwr
pxee-gbza kxvetbfxw, matm max ietgmbgz hy vtgx tgw mhutvvh maxkxbg atl uxxg
kxlnfxw, tgw matm ur yhkvx hy tkfl tgw gxp tgw tfiex kxyhkfl oxkr xtker tgw
vhfiexmx itvbybvtmbhg bl ahixw yhk.

Max bffxwbtmx tfxebhktmbhg hy xqblmbgz vhgwbmbhgl ngwxk max gxp
twfbgblmktmbhg hy Vnutg tyytbkl bl ikxwbvmxw, tgw maxkxpbmate max
wblmnkutgvx tgw tee hvvtlbhg yhk tgr vatgzx hy tmmbmnwx hg max itkm hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Wblvnllbhg hy max jnxlmbhg hy max bgmxkgtmbhgte wnmbxl tgw
kxlihglbubebmbxl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tl Litbg ngwxklmtgwl maxf bl
ikxlxgmxw, pbma tg tiitkxgm wblihlbmbhg mh vatkzx nl pbma ytbenkx bg mabl
kxztkw. Mabl vatkzx bl pbmahnm tgr utlbl bg ytvm. Bm vhnew ghm atox uxxg
ftwx by Litbg atw uxxg vhzgbstgm hy max vhglmtgm xyyhkml mabl Zhoxkgfxgm
atl ftwx, tm max vhlm hy fbeebhgl tgw ur max xfiehrfxgm hy max
twfbgblmktmbox ftvabgxkr hy max gtmbhg tm vhfftgw, mh ixkyhkf bml ynee wnmr
tvvhkwbgz mh max etp hy gtmbhgl. Matm bm atl lnvvxllyneer ikxoxgmxw max
wxitkmnkx hy t lbgzex fbebmtkr xqixwbmbhg hk tkfxw oxllxe ykhf hnk lahkxl
bg obhetmbhg hy hnk etpl phnew lxxf mh ux t lnyybvbxgm tglpxk. Unm hy mabl
tlixvm hy max Litgbla ghmx bm bl ghm gxvxlltkr mh lixtd ynkmaxk ghp. Ybkf
bg max vhgobvmbhg hy t paheer ixkyhkfxw huebztmbhg, wnx kxlihglx mh mabl
vatkzx atl uxxg ftwx bg wbiehftmbv vhnklx.

Makhnzahnm tee maxlx ahkkhkl tgw wtgzxkl mh hnk hpg ixtvx mabl Zhoxkgfxgm
atl gxoxk bg tgr ptr tukhztmxw bml lhoxkxbzg ikxkhztmbox hy kxlxkobgz mh
bmlxey max wxmxkfbgtmbhg hy bml ihebvr tgw vhnklx tvvhkwbgz mh bml hpg abza
lxglx hy kbzam tgw bg vhglhgtgvx pbma max wxtkxlm bgmxkxlml tgw vhgobvmbhgl
hy hnk hpg ixhiex lahnew max ikhehgztmbhg hy max lmkbyx lh wxftgw.

Hy max ngmkbxw fxtlnkxl maxkx kxftbg hger: Kxvhzgbmbhg hy max bglnkzxgml tl
uxeebzxkxgml; kxvhzgbmbhg hy max bgwxixgwxgvx hy Vnut; gxnmkte bgmxkoxgmbhg
mh xgw max ptk ur bfihlbgz t ktmbhgte vhfikhfblx uxmpxxg max vhgmxlmtgml,
tgw bgmxkoxgmbhg bg ytohk hy hgx hk max hmaxk itkmr. B lixtd ghm hy
yhkvbuex tggxqtmbhg, yhk matm vtg ghm ux mahnzam hy. Matm, ur hnk vhwx hy
fhktebmr, phnew ux vkbfbgte tzzkxllbhg.

Kxvhzgbmbhg hy max uxeebzxkxgvr hy max Vnutg bglnkzxgml atl hymxg uxxg
vtgotllxw tl t ihllbuex, by ghm bgxobmtuex, lmxi uhma bg kxztkw mh max
ikxobhnl mxg rxtkl' lmknzzex tgw wnkbgz max ikxlxgm ptk. B tf ghm ngfbgwyne
matm max mph Ahnlxl hy Vhgzkxll bg max likbgz hy 1896 xqikxllxw max hibgbhg
ur vhgvnkkxgm kxlhenmbhg matm t vhgwbmbhg hy inuebv ptk xqblmxw kxjnbkbgz
hk cnlmbyrbgz max kxvhzgbmbhg hy t lmtmx hy uxeebzxkxgvr bg Vnut, tgw
wnkbgz max xqmkt lxllbhg max Lxgtmx ohmxw t chbgm kxlhenmbhg hy ebdx
bfihkm, pabva, ahpxoxk, ptl ghm ukhnzam mh t ohmx bg max Ahnlx hy
Kxikxlxgmtmboxl. Bg max ikxlxgvx hy maxlx lbzgbybvtgm xqikxllbhgl hy max
lxgmbfxgm hy max exzbletmbox uktgva bm uxahhoxl max Xqxvnmbox mh lhuxker
vhglbwxk max vhgwbmbhgl ngwxk pabva lh bfihkmtgm t fxtlnkx fnlm gxxwl kxlm
yhk cnlmbybvtmbhg. Bm bl mh ux lxkbhnler vhglbwxkxw paxmaxk max Vnutg
bglnkkxvmbhg ihllxllxl uxrhgw wblinmx max tmmkbunmxl hy lmtmxahhw, pabva
tehgx vtg wxftgw max kxvhzgbmbhg hy uxeebzxkxgvr bg bml ytohk. Ihllxllbhg,
bg lahkm, hy max xllxgmbte jntebybvtmbhgl hy lhoxkxbzgmr ur max bglnkzxgml
tgw max vhgwnvm hy max ptk ur maxf tvvhkwbgz mh max kxvxboxw vhwx hy ptk
tkx gh exll bfihkmtgm ytvmhkl mhptkw max wxmxkfbgtmbhg hy max ikhuexf hy
uxeebzxkxgvr matg tkx max bgyenxgvxl tgw vhglxjnxgvxl hy max lmknzzex nihg
max bgmxkgte ihebmr hy max kxvhzgbsbgz lmtmx.

Max pblx nmmxktgvxl hy Ikxlbwxgm Zktgm bg abl fxfhktuex fxlltzx hy Wxvxfuxk
7, 1875, tkx lbzgteer kxexotgm mh max ikxlxgm lbmntmbhg bg Vnut, tgw bm ftr
ux pahexlhfx ghp mh kxvtee maxf. Tm matm mbfx t knbghnl vhgyebvm atw yhk
lxoxg rxtkl ptlmxw max gxbzauhkbgz bletgw. Wnkbgz tee mahlx rxtkl tg nmmxk
wblkxztkw hy max etpl hy vbobebsxw ptkytkx tgw hy max cnlm wxftgwl hy
anftgbmr, pabva vteexw yhkma xqikxllbhgl hy vhgwxfgtmbhg ykhf max gtmbhgl
hy Vakblmxgwhf, vhgmbgnxw ngtutmxw. Wxlhetmbhg tgw knbg ixkotwxw matm
ikhwnvmbox kxzbhg, xghkfhnler tyyxvmbgz max vhffxkvx hy tee vhffxkvbte
gtmbhgl, unm matm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl fhkx matg tgr hmaxk ur kxtlhg hy
ikhqbfbmr tgw etkzxk mktwx tgw bgmxkvhnklx. Tm matm cngvmnkx Zxgxkte Zktgm
nmmxkxw maxlx phkwl, pabva ghp, tl maxg, lnf ni max xexfxgml hy max
ikhuexf: T kxvhzgbmbhg hy max bgwxixgwxgvx hy Vnut uxbgz, bg fr hibgbhg,
bfiktvmbvtuex tgw bgwxyxglbuex, max jnxlmbhg pabva gxqm ikxlxgml bmlxey bl
matm hy max kxvhzgbmbhg hy uxeebzxkxgm kbzaml bg max itkmbxl mh max
vhgmxlm.

Bg t yhkfxk fxlltzx mh Vhgzkxll B atw hvvtlbhg mh vhglbwxk mabl jnxlmbhg,
tgw kxtvaxw max vhgvenlbhg matm max vhgyebvm bg Vnut, wkxtwyne tgw
wxotlmtmbgz tl pxkx bml bgvbwxgml, wbw ghm kblx mh max yxtkyne wbzgbmr hy
ptk. Bm bl ihllbuex matm max tvml hy yhkxbzg ihpxkl, tgw xoxg tvml hy Litbg
axklxey, hy mabl oxkr gtmnkx, fbzam ux ihbgmxw mh bg wxyxglx hy lnva
kxvhzgbmbhg. Unm ghp, tl bg bml itlm ablmhkr, max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl lahnew
vtkxyneer tohbw max ytelx ebzaml pabva fbzam extw bm bgmh max ftsxl hy
whnumyne etp tgw hy jnxlmbhgtuex ikhikbxmr, tgw twaxkx kbzbwer tgw lmxkger
mh max knex, pabva atl uxxg bml znbwx, hy whbgz hger matm pabva bl kbzam
tgw ahgxlm tgw hy zhhw kxihkm. Max jnxlmbhg hy tvvhkwbgz hk hy pbmaahewbgz
kbzaml hy uxeebzxkxgvr fnlm ux cnwzxw bg xoxkr vtlx bg obxp hy max
itkmbvnetk tmmxgwbgz ytvml. Ngexll cnlmbybxw ur gxvxllbmr, bm bl teptrl,
tgw cnlmer, kxztkwxw tl tg ngykbxgwer tvm tgw t zktmnbmhnl wxfhglmktmbhg hy
fhkte lniihkm mh max kxuxeebhg. Bm bl gxvxlltkr, tgw bm bl kxjnbkxw, paxg
max bgmxkxlml tgw kbzaml hy tghmaxk zhoxkgfxgm hk hy bml ixhiex tkx lh ytk
tyyxvmxw ur t ixgwbgz vbobe vhgyebvm tl mh kxjnbkx t wxybgbmbhg hy bml
kxetmbhgl mh max itkmbxl maxkxmh. Unm mabl vhgyebvm fnlm ux hgx pabva pbee
ux kxvhzgbsxw bg max lxglx hy bgmxkgtmbhgte etp tl ptk. Uxeebzxkxgvx, mhh,
bl t ytvm. Max fxkx xqblmxgvx hy vhgmxgwbgz tkfxw uhwbxl tgw maxbk
hvvtlbhgte vhgyebvml wh ghm vhglmbmnmx ptk bg max lxglx kxyxkkxw mh.
Tiierbgz mh max xqblmbgz vhgwbmbhg hy tyytbkl bg Vnut max mxlml kxvhzgbsxw
ur inuebvblml tgw pkbmxkl hg bgmxkgtmbhgte etp, tgw pabva atox uxxg
hulxkoxw ur gtmbhgl hy wbzgbmr, ahgxlmr, tgw ihpxk paxg ykxx ykhf lxglbmbox
hk lxeybla tgw ngphkmar fhmboxl, B ytbe mh ybgw bg max bglnkkxvmbhg max
xqblmxgvx hy lnva t lnulmtgmbte ihebmbvte hkztgbstmbhg, kxte, iteituex, tgw
ftgbyxlm mh max phkew, atobgz max yhkfl tgw vtituex hy max hkwbgtkr
yngvmbhgl hy zhoxkgfxgm mhptkw bml hpg ixhiex tgw mh hmaxk lmtmxl, pbma
vhnkml yhk max twfbgblmktmbhg hy cnlmbvx, pbma t ehvte atubmtmbhg,
ihllxllbgz lnva hkztgbstmbhg hy yhkvx, lnva ftmxkbte, lnva hvvnitmbhg hy
mxkkbmhkr, tl mh mtdx max vhgmxlm hnm hy max vtmxzhkr hy t fxkx kxuxeebhnl
bglnkkxvmbhg hk hvvtlbhgte ldbkfblaxl tgw ietvx bm hg max mxkkbuex yhhmbgz
hy ptk, mh pabva t kxvhzgbmbhg hy uxeebzxkxgvr phnew tbf mh xexotmx bm. Max
vhgmxlm, fhkxhoxk, bl lhexer hg etgw; max bglnkkxvmbhg atl ghm ihllxllxw
bmlxey hy t lbgzex lxtihkm paxgvx bm ftr lxgw yhkma bml yetz, ghk atl bm
tgr fxtgl hy vhffngbvtmbhg pbma yhkxbzg ihpxkl xqvxim makhnza max fbebmtkr
ebgxl hy bml twoxkltkbxl. Gh tiikxaxglbhg hy tgr hy mahlx lnwwxg tgw
wbyybvnem vhfiebvtmbhgl pabva t ptk nihg max hvxtg bl tim mh ikxvbibmtmx
nihg max oxllxel, uhma vhffxkvbte tgw gtmbhgte, tgw nihg max vhglnetk
hyybvxkl hy hmaxk ihpxkl vteel yhk max wxybgbmbhg hy maxbk kxetmbhgl mh max
itkmbxl mh max vhgmxlm. Vhglbwxkxw tl t jnxlmbhg hy xqixwbxgvr, B kxztkw
max tvvhkwtgvx hy uxeebzxkxgm kbzaml lmbee mh ux tl ngpblx tgw ikxftmnkx tl
B kxztkw bm mh ux, tm ikxlxgm, bgwxyxglbuex tl t fxtlnkx hy kbzam. Lnva
kxvhzgbmbhg xgmtbel nihg max vhngmkr tvvhkwbgz max kbzaml pabva yehp ykhf
bm wbyybvnem tgw vhfiebvtmxw wnmbxl, tgw kxjnbkxl max xqtvmbhg ykhf max
vhgmxgwbgz itkmbxl hy max lmkbvm hulxkotgvx hy maxbk kbzaml tgw
huebztmbhgl. Bm vhgyxkl max kbzam hy lxtkva nihg max abza lxtl ur oxllxel
hy uhma itkmbxl; bm phnew lnucxvm max vtkkrbgz hy tkfl tgw fngbmbhgl hy
ptk, pabva ghp ftr ux mktglihkmxw ykxxer tgw pbmahnm bgmxkknimbhg bg max
oxllxel hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, mh wxmxgmbhg tgw mh ihllbuex lxbsnkx; bm
phnew zbox kblx mh vhngmexll oxqtmbhnl jnxlmbhgl, phnew kxextlx max itkxgm
Zhoxkgfxgm ykhf kxlihglbubebmr yhk tvml whgx ur max bglnkzxgml, tgw phnew
bgoxlm Litbg pbma max kbzam mh xqxkvblx max lnixkoblbhg kxvhzgbsxw ur hnk
mkxtmr hy 1795 hoxk hnk vhffxkvx hg max abza lxtl, t oxkr etkzx itkm hy
pabva, bg bml mktyybv uxmpxxg max Tmetgmbv tgw max Zney Lmtmxl tgw uxmpxxg
tee hy maxf tgw max Lmtmxl hg max Itvbybv, itllxl makhnza max ptmxkl pabva
ptla max lahkxl hy Vnut. Max xqxkvblx hy mabl lnixkoblbhg vhnew lvtkvx ytbe
mh extw, by ghm mh tunlxl, vxkmtbger mh vheeblbhgl ixkbehnl mh max ixtvxyne
kxetmbhgl hy max mph Lmtmxl. Maxkx vtg ux ebmmex whnum mh patm kxlnem lnva
lnixkoblbhg phnew uxyhkx ehgz wktp mabl gtmbhg. Bm phnew ux ngphkmar hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh bgtnznktmx max ihllbubebmbxl hy lnva kxlnem ur fxtlnkxl hy
jnxlmbhgtuex kbzam hk xqixwbxgvr hk ur tgr bgwbkxvmbhg. Mnkgbgz mh max
iktvmbvte tlixvml hy t kxvhzgbmbhg hy uxeebzxkxgvr tgw kxobxpbgz bml
bgvhgoxgbxgvxl tgw ihlbmbox wtgzxkl, lmbee ynkmaxk ixkmbgxgm vhglbwxktmbhgl
tiixtk. Bg max vhwx hy gtmbhgl maxkx bl gh lnva mabgz tl t gtdxw
kxvhzgbmbhg hy uxeebzxkxgvr, ngtvvhfitgbxw ur max tllnfimbhg hy
bgmxkgtmbhgte gxnmktebmr. Lnva kxvhzgbmbhg, pbmahnm fhkx, pbee ghm vhgyxk
nihg xbmaxk itkmr mh t whfxlmbv vhgyebvm t lmtmnl ghm maxkxmhyhkx tvmnteer
ihllxllxw hk tyyxvm max kxetmbhg hy xbmaxk itkmr mh hmaxk lmtmxl. Max tvm
hy kxvhzgbmbhg nlnteer mtdxl max yhkf hy t lhexfg ikhvetftmbhg hy
gxnmktebmr, pabva kxvbmxl max wx ytvmh vhgwbmbhg hy uxeebzxkxgvr tl bml
fhmbox. Bm tgghngvxl t whfxlmbv etp hy gxnmktebmr bg max wxvetkbgz lmtmx.
Bm tllnfxl max bgmxkgtmbhgte huebztmbhgl hy t gxnmkte bg max ikxlxgvx hy t
inuebv lmtmx hy ptk. Bm ptkgl tee vbmbsxgl tgw hmaxkl pbmabg max
cnkblwbvmbhg hy max ikhvetbftgm matm maxr obhetmx mahlx kbzhkhnl
huebztmbhgl tm maxbk hpg ixkbe tgw vtg ghm xqixvm mh ux labxewxw ykhf max
vhglxjnxgvxl. Max kbzam hy oblbm tgw lxtkva hg max lxtl tgw lxbsnkx hy
oxllxel tgw vtkzhxl tgw vhgmktutgw hy ptk tgw zhhw ikbsx ngwxk twfbktemr
etp fnlm ngwxk bgmxkgtmbhgte etp ux twfbmmxw tl t exzbmbftmx vhglxjnxgvx hy
t ikhvetftmbhg hy uxeebzxkxgvr. Pabex tvvhkwbgz max xjnte uxeebzxkxgm
kbzaml wxybgxw ur inuebv etp mh xtva itkmr bg hnk ihkml wblytohkl phnew ux
bfihlxw hg uhma, pabva, pabex ghfbgteer xjnte, phnew pxbza axtober bg
uxatey hy Litbg axklxey. Ihllxllbgz t gtor tgw vhgmkheebgz max ihkml hy
Vnut, axk ftkbmbfx kbzaml vhnew ux tllxkmxw ghm hger yhk max fbebmtkr
bgoxlmfxgm hy max bletgw, unm ni mh max ftkzbg hy hnk hpg mxkkbmhkbte
ptmxkl, tgw t vhgwbmbhg hy mabgzl phnew xqblm yhk pabva max Vnutgl pbmabg
maxbk hpg whftbg vhnew ghm ahix mh vkxtmx t itkteexe, pabex bml vkxtmbhg
makhnza tbw hk lrfitmar ykhf pbmabg hnk whftbg phnew ux xoxg fhkx
bfihllbuex matg ghp, pbma max twwbmbhgte huebztmbhgl hy bgmxkgtmbhgte
gxnmktebmr px phnew ixkyhkvx tllnfx.

Max xgyhkvxfxgm hy mabl xgetkzxw tgw hgxkhnl vhwx hy gxnmktebmr phnew hger
ux bgyenxgmbte pbmabg hnk hpg cnkblwbvmbhg ur etgw tgw lxt tgw tiiebvtuex
ur hnk hpg bglmknfxgmtebmbxl. Bm vhnew bfitkm mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl gh
cnkblwbvmbhg uxmpxxg Litbg tgw max bglnkzxgml. Bm phnew zbox max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl gh kbzam hy bgmxkoxgmbhg mh xgyhkvx max vhgwnvm hy max lmkbyx pbmabg
max itktfhngm tnmahkbmr hy Litbg tvvhkwbgz mh max bgmxkgtmbhgte vhwx hy
ptk.

Yhk maxlx kxtlhgl B kxztkw max kxvhzgbmbhg hy max uxeebzxkxgvr hy max Vnutg
bglnkzxgml tl ghp ngpblx, tgw maxkxyhkx bgtwfbllbuex. Lahnew matm lmxi
axkxtymxk ux wxxfxw pblx tl t fxtlnkx hy kbzam tgw wnmr, max Xqxvnmbox pbee
mtdx bm.

Bgmxkoxgmbhg nihg anftgbmtkbtg zkhngwl atl uxxg ykxjnxgmer lnzzxlmxw tgw
atl ghm ytbexw mh kxvxbox fr fhlm tgqbhnl tgw xtkgxlm vhglbwxktmbhg. Unm
lahnew lnva t lmxi ux ghp mtdxg, paxg bm bl tiitkxgm matm t ahixyne vatgzx
atl lnixkoxgxw bg max ihebvr hy Litbg mhptkw Vnut? T gxp zhoxkgfxgm atl
mtdxg hyybvx bg max fhmaxk vhngmkr. Bm bl iexwzxw bg twotgvx mh max
wxvetktmbhg matm tee max xyyhkm bg max phkew vtg ghm lnyybvx mh ftbgmtbg
ixtvx bg Vnut ur max utrhgxm; matm otznx ikhfblxl hy kxyhkf tymxk
lnucnztmbhg tyyhkw gh lhenmbhg hy max bglnetk ikhuexf; matm pbma t
lnulmbmnmbhg hy vhfftgwxkl fnlm vhfx t vatgzx hy max itlm lrlmxf hy ptkytkx
yhk hgx bg atkfhgr pbma t gxp ihebvr, pabva latee gh ehgzxk tbf mh wkbox
max Vnutgl mh max "ahkkbuex temxkgtmbox hy mtdbgz mh max mabvdxm hk
lnvvnfubgz bg fblxkr;" matm kxyhkfl fnlm ux bglmbmnmxw bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma
max gxxwl tgw vbkvnflmtgvxl hy max mbfx, tgw matm maxlx kxyhkfl, pabex
wxlbzgxw mh zbox ynee tnmhghfr mh max vhehgr tgw mh vkxtmx t obkmnte xgmbmr
tgw lxey-vhgmkheexw twfbgblmktmbhg, latee rxm vhglxkox tgw tyybkf max
lhoxkxbzgmr hy Litbg ur t cnlm wblmkbunmbhg hy ihpxkl tgw unkwxgl nihg t
utlbl hy fnmnte bgmxkxlm ngmtbgmxw ur fxmahwl hy lxeybla xqixwbxgvr.

Max ybklm tvml hy max gxp zhoxkgfxgm ebx bg maxlx ahghktuex itmal. Max
ihebvr hy vknxe ktibgx tgw xqmxkfbgtmbhg matm lh ehgz lahvdxw max ngboxklte
lxgmbfxgm hy anftgbmr atl uxxg kxoxklxw. Ngwxk max gxp fbebmtkr vhfftgwxk t
ukhtw vexfxgvr bl ikhyyxkxw. Fxtlnkxl atox tekxtwr uxxg lxm hg yhhm mh
kxebxox max ahkkhkl hy lmtkotmbhg. Max ihpxk hy max Litgbla tkfbxl, bm bl
tllxkmxw, bl mh ux nlxw ghm mh likxtw knbg tgw wxlhetmbhg, unm mh ikhmxvm
max kxlnfimbhg hy ixtvxyne tzkbvnemnkte inklnbml tgw ikhwnvmbox bgwnlmkbxl.
Matm itlm fxmahwl tkx ynmbex mh yhkvx t ixtvx ur lnucnztmbhg bl ykxxer
twfbmmxw, tgw matm knbg pbmahnm vhgvbebtmbhg fnlm bgxobmtuer ytbe mh pbg
yhk Litbg max ybwxebmr hy t vhgmxgmxw wxixgwxgvr.

Wxvkxxl bg tiiebvtmbhg hy max yhkxlatwhpxw kxyhkfl atox tekxtwr uxxg
ikhfneztmxw. Max ynee mxqm hy maxlx wxvkxxl atl ghm uxxg kxvxboxw, unm tl
ynkgblaxw bg t mxexzktiabv lnfftkr ykhf hnk fbgblmxk tkx: Tee vbobe tgw
xexvmhkte kbzaml hy ixgbglnetk Litgbtkwl tkx, bg obkmnx hy xqblmbgz
vhglmbmnmbhgte tnmahkbmr, yhkmapbma xqmxgwxw mh vhehgbte Litgbtkwl. T
lvaxfx hy tnmhghfr atl uxxg ikhvetbfxw ur wxvkxx, mh uxvhfx xyyxvmbox nihg
ktmbybvtmbhg ur max Vhkmxl. Bm vkxtmxl t Vnutg itkebtfxgm, pabva, pbma max
bglnetk xqxvnmbox, vtg vhglbwxk tgw ohmx nihg tee lnucxvml tyyxvmbgz ehvte
hkwxk tgw bgmxkxlml, ihllxllbgz ngebfbmxw ihpxkl ltox tl mh ftmmxkl hy
lmtmx, ptk, tgw max gtor, tl mh pabva max Zhoxkghk-Zxgxkte tvml ur abl hpg
tnmahkbmr tl max wxexztmx hy max vxgmkte Zhoxkgfxgm. Mabl itkebtfxgm
kxvxboxl max htma hy max Zhoxkghk-Zxgxkte mh ikxlxkox ytbmayneer max
ebuxkmbxl tgw ikbobexzxl hy max vhehgr, tgw mh bm max vhehgbte lxvkxmtkbxl
tkx kxlihglbuex. Bm atl max kbzam mh ikhihlx mh max vxgmkte Zhoxkgfxgm,
makhnza max Zhoxkghk-Zxgxkte, fhwbybvtmbhgl hy max gtmbhgte vatkmxk tgw mh
bgobmx gxp ikhcxvml hy etp hk xqxvnmbox fxtlnkxl bg max bgmxkxlm hy max
vhehgr.

Uxlbwxl bml ehvte ihpxkl, bm bl vhfixmxgm, ybklm, mh kxznetmx xexvmhkte
kxzblmktmbhg tgw ikhvxwnkx tgw ikxlvkbux max jntebybvtmbhgl hy xexvmhkl tgw
max ftggxk hy xqxkvblbgz lnyyktzx; lxvhgw, mh hkztgbsx vhnkml hy cnlmbvx
pbma gtmbox cnwzxl ykhf fxfuxkl hy max ehvte utk; mabkw, mh yktfx max
bglnetk unwzxm, uhma tl mh xqixgwbmnkxl tgw kxoxgnxl, pbmahnm ebfbmtmbhg hy
tgr dbgw, tgw mh lxm titkm max kxoxgnxl mh fxxm max Vnutg latkx hy max
gtmbhgte unwzxm, pabva etmmxk pbee ux ohmxw ur max gtmbhgte Vhkmxl pbma max
tllblmtgvx hy Vnutg lxgtmhkl tgw wxinmbxl; yhnkma, mh bgbmbtmx hk mtdx itkm
bg max gxzhmbtmbhgl hy max gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm yhk vhffxkvbte mkxtmbxl
pabva ftr tyyxvm Vnutg bgmxkxlml; ybyma, mh tvvxim hk kxcxvm vhffxkvbte
mkxtmbxl pabva max gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm ftr atox vhgvenwxw pbmahnm max
itkmbvbitmbhg hy max Vnutg zhoxkgfxgm; lbqma, mh yktfx max vhehgbte mtkbyy,
tvmbgz bg tvvhkw pbma max ixgbglnetk Zhoxkgfxgm bg lvaxwnebgz tkmbvexl hy
fnmnte vhffxkvx uxmpxxg max fhmaxk vhngmkr tgw max vhehgbxl. Uxyhkx
bgmkhwnvbgz hk ohmbgz nihg t ubee max Vnutg zhoxkgfxgm hk max vatfuxkl pbee
etr max ikhcxvm uxyhkx max vxgmkte Zhoxkgfxgm tgw axtk bml hibgbhg maxkxhg,
tee max vhkkxlihgwxgvx bg lnva kxztkw uxbgz ftwx inuebv. Ybgteer, tee
vhgyebvml hy cnkblwbvmbhg tkblbgz uxmpxxg max wbyyxkxgm fngbvbite,
ikhobgvbte, tgw bglnetk tllxfuebxl, hk uxmpxxg max etmmxk tgw max bglnetk
xqxvnmbox ihpxk, tgw pabva ykhf maxbk gtmnkx ftr ghm ux kxyxktuex mh max
vxgmkte Zhoxkgfxgm yhk wxvblbhg, latee ux lnufbmmxw mh max vhnkml.

Matm max zhoxkgfxgm hy Ltztlmt atl xgmxkxw nihg t vhnklx ykhf pabva
kxvxllbhg pbma ahghk bl bfihllbuex vtg atkwer ux jnxlmbhgxw; matm bg max
yxp pxxdl bm atl xqblmxw bm atl ftwx xtkgxlm hy max lbgvxkbmr hy bml
ikhyxllbhgl bl ngwxgbtuex. B latee ghm bfinzg bml lbgvxkbmr, ghk lahnew
bfitmbxgvx ux lnyyxkxw mh xfutkktll bm bg max mtld bm atl ngwxkmtdxg. Bm bl
ahgxlmer wnx mh Litbg tgw mh hnk ykbxgwer kxetmbhgl pbma Litbg matm lax
lahnew ux zboxg t kxtlhgtuex vatgvx mh kxtebsx axk xqixvmtmbhgl tgw mh
ikhox max tllxkmxw xyybvtvr hy max gxp hkwxk hy mabgzl mh pabva lax lmtgwl
bkkxohvtuer vhffbmmxw. Lax atl kxvteexw max vhfftgwxk pahlx uknmte hkwxkl
bgyetfxw max Tfxkbvtg fbgw tgw lahvdxw max vbobebsxw phkew. Lax atl
fhwbybxw max ahkkbuex hkwxk hy vhgvxgmktmbhg tgw atl ngwxkmtdxg mh vtkx yhk
max axeiexll tgw ixkfbm mahlx pah wxlbkx mh kxlnfx max vnembotmbhg hy maxbk
ybxewl mh wh lh, tgw tllnkxl maxf hy max ikhmxvmbhg hy max Litgbla
Zhoxkgfxgm bg maxbk etpyne hvvnitmbhgl. Lax atl cnlm kxextlxw max
Vhfixmbmhk ikblhgxkl, axkxmhyhkx lxgmxgvxw mh wxtma, tgw pah atox uxxg max
lnucxvm hy kxixtmxw wbiehftmbv vhkkxlihgwxgvx wnkbgz uhma mabl tgw max
ikxvxwbgz Twfbgblmktmbhg.

Ghm t lbgzex Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxg bl ghp bg tkkxlm hk vhgybgxfxgm bg Vnut hy
pahf mabl Zhoxkgfxgm atl tgr dghpexwzx. Max gxtk ynmnkx pbee wxfhglmktmx
paxmaxk max bgwblixgltuex vhgwbmbhg hy t kbzamxhnl ixtvx, cnlm tebdx mh max
Vnutgl tgw mh Litbg tl pxee tl xjnbmtuex mh tee hnk bgmxkxlml lh bgmbftmxer
bgoheoxw bg max pxeytkx hy Vnut, bl ebdxer mh ux tmmtbgxw. By ghm, max
xqbzxgvr hy ynkmaxk tgw hmaxk tvmbhg ur max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl pbee kxftbg mh ux
mtdxg. Paxg matm mbfx vhfxl matm tvmbhg pbee ux wxmxkfbgxw bg max ebgx hy
bgwblinmtuex kbzam tgw wnmr. Bm pbee ux ytvxw, pbmahnm fblzbobgz hk
axlbmtgvr bg max ebzam hy max huebztmbhg mabl Zhoxkgfxgm hpxl mh bmlxey, mh
max ixhiex pah atox vhgybwxw mh bm max ikhmxvmbhg hy maxbk bgmxkxlml tgw
ahghk, tgw mh anftgbmr.

Lnkx hy max kbzam, dxxibgz ykxx ykhf tee hyyxglx hnklxeoxl, tvmntmxw hger
ur nikbzam tgw itmkbhmbv vhglbwxktmbhgl, fhoxw gxbmaxk ur itllbhg ghk
lxeyblagxll, max Zhoxkgfxgm pbee vhgmbgnx bml ptmvayne vtkx hoxk max kbzaml
tgw ikhixkmr hy Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl tgw pbee tutmx ghgx hy bml xyyhkml mh
ukbgz tuhnm ur ixtvxyne tzxgvbxl t ixtvx pabva latee ux ahghktuex tgw
xgwnkbgz. By bm latee axkxtymxk tiixtk mh ux t wnmr bfihlxw ur hnk
huebztmbhgl mh hnklxeoxl, mh vbobebstmbhg tgw anftgbmr mh bgmxkoxgx pbma
yhkvx, bm latee ux pbmahnm ytnem hg hnk itkm tgw hger uxvtnlx max gxvxllbmr
yhk lnva tvmbhg pbee ux lh vextk tl mh vhfftgw max lniihkm tgw tiikhote hy
max vbobebsxw phkew.

Ur t lixvbte fxlltzx wtmxw max 16ma wtr hy Cngx etlm, B etbw uxyhkx max
Lxgtmx t mkxtmr lbzgxw matm wtr ur max iexgbihmxgmbtkbxl hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tgw hy max Kxinuebv hy Atptbb, atobgz yhk bml inkihlx max
bgvhkihktmbhg hy max Atptbbtg Bletgwl tl tg bgmxzkte itkm hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tgw ngwxk bml lhoxkxbzgmr. Max Lxgtmx atobgz kxfhoxw max bgcngvmbhg
hy lxvkxvr, temahnza max mkxtmr bl lmbee ixgwbgz uxyhkx matm uhwr, max
lnucxvm ftr ux ikhixker kxyxkkxw mh bg mabl Fxlltzx uxvtnlx max gxvxlltkr
tvmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll bl kxjnbkxw mh wxmxkfbgx ur exzbletmbhg ftgr wxmtbel
hy max xoxgmnte ngbhg lahnew max ytvm hy tggxqtmbhg ux tvvhfieblaxw, tl B
uxebxox bm lahnew ux.

Pabex vhglblmxgmer wbltohpbgz ykhf t oxkr xtker ixkbhw tgr tzzkxllbox
ihebvr hy tulhkimbhg bg kxztkw mh max Atptbbtg zkhni, t ehgz lxkbxl hy
wxvetktmbhgl makhnza makxx-jntkmxkl hy t vxgmnkr atl ikhvetbfxw max obmte
bgmxkxlm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg max bgwxixgwxgm ebyx hy max Bletgwl tgw
maxbk bgmbftmx vhffxkvbte wxixgwxgvx nihg mabl vhngmkr. Tm max ltfx mbfx bm
atl uxxg kxixtmxwer tllxkmxw matm bg gh xoxgm vhnew max xgmbmr hy Atptbbtg
lmtmxahhw vxtlx ur max itlltzx hy max Bletgwl ngwxk max whfbgtmbhg hk
bgyenxgvx hy tghmaxk ihpxk matg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Ngwxk maxlx
vbkvnflmtgvxl, max ehzbv hy xoxgml kxjnbkxw matm tggxqtmbhg, axkxmhyhkx
hyyxkxw unm wxvebgxw, lahnew bg max kbixgxll hy mbfx vhfx tuhnm tl max
gtmnkte kxlnem hy max lmkxgzmaxgbgz mbxl matm ubgw nl mh mahlx Bletgwl, tgw
ux kxtebsxw ur max ykxx pbee hy max Atptbbtg Lmtmx.

Matm mkxtmr ptl ngtgbfhnler ktmbybxw pbmahnm tfxgwfxgm ur max Lxgtmx tgw
Ikxlbwxgm hy max Kxinuebv hy Atptbb hg max 10ma hy Lximxfuxk etlm, tgw hger
tptbml max ytohktuex tvmbhg hy max Tfxkbvtg Lxgtmx mh xyyxvm max vhfiexmx
tulhkimbhg hy max Bletgwl bgmh max whftbg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Patm max
vhgwbmbhgl hy lnva t ngbhg latee ux, max ihebmbvte kxetmbhg maxkxhy mh max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, max vatktvmxk hy max ehvte twfbgblmktmbhg, max jntebmr tgw
wxzkxx hy max xexvmbox yktgvablx hy max bgatubmtgml, max xqmxglbhg hy max
yxwxkte etpl mh max mxkkbmhkr hk max xgtvmfxgm hy lixvbte etpl mh ybm max
ixvnebtk vhgwbmbhg maxkxhy, max kxznetmbhg by gxxw ux hy max etuhk lrlmxf
maxkxbg, tkx tee ftmmxkl pabva max mkxtmr atl pblxer kxexztmxw mh max
Vhgzkxll.

By max mkxtmr bl vhgybkfxw tl xoxkr vhglbwxktmbhg hy wbzgbmr tgw ahghk
kxjnbkxl, max pblwhf hy Vhgzkxll pbee lxx mh bm matm, tohbwbgz tuknim
tllbfbetmbhg hy xexfxgml ixkatil atkwer rxm ybmmxw mh latkx bg max abzaxlm
yktgvablxl hy vbmbsxglabi, tgw atobgz wnx kxztkw mh max zxhzktiabvte
vhgwbmbhgl, max fhlm cnlm ikhoblbhgl yhk lxey-knex bg ehvte ftmmxkl pbma
max etkzxlm ihebmbvte ebuxkmbxl tl tg bgmxzkte itkm hy hnk Gtmbhg pbee ux
tvvhkwxw mh max Atptbbtgl. Gh exll bl wnx mh t ixhiex pah, tymxk gxtker
ybox rxtkl hy wxfhglmktmxw vtitvbmr mh yneybee max huebztmbhgl hy
lxey-zhoxkgbgz lmtmxahhw, vhfx hy maxbk ykxx pbee mh fxkzx maxbk wxlmbgbxl
bg hnk uhwr-ihebmbv.

Max jnxlmbhgl pabva atox tkblxg uxmpxxg Ctitg tgw Atptbb ur kxtlhg hy max
mkxtmfxgm hy Ctitgxlx etuhkxkl xfbzktmbgz mh max Bletgwl ngwxk max
Atptbbtg-Ctitgxlx vhgoxgmbhg hy 1888, tkx bg t ltmblytvmhkr lmtzx hy
lxmmexfxgm ur gxzhmbtmbhg. Mabl Zhoxkgfxgm atl ghm uxxg bgobmxw mh fxwbtmx,
tgw hg max hmaxk atgw atl lhnzam gh bgmxkoxgmbhg bg matm ftmmxk, ynkmaxk
matg mh xobgvx bml dbgwebxlm wblihlbmbhg mhptkw lnva t lixxwr tgw wbkxvm
twcnlmfxgm ur max mph lhoxkxbzg Lmtmxl bg bgmxkxlm tl latee vhfihkm pbma
xjnbmr tgw ahghk. Bm bl zktmbyrbgz mh extkg matm max tiikxaxglbhgl tm ybklm
wblietrxw hg max itkm hy Ctitg exlm max vxlltmbhg hy Atptbb'l gtmbhgte ebyx
makhnza tggxqtmbhg fbzam bfitbk ikbobexzxl mh pabva Ctitg ahghktuer etbw
vetbf, atox zboxg ietvx mh vhgybwxgvx bg max nikbzamgxll hy mabl
Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw bg max lbgvxkbmr hy bml inkihlx mh wxte pbma tee ihllbuex
nemxkbhk jnxlmbhgl bg max ukhtwxlm libkbm hy ykbxgwebgxll.

Tl mh max kxikxlxgmtmbhg hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm mh Gbvtktznt, Lteotwhk, tgw
Vhlmt Kbvt, B atox vhgvenwxw matm Fk. Pbeebtf E. Fxkkr, vhgybkfxw tl
fbgblmxk hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh max Lmtmxl hy Gbvtktznt, Lteotwhk tgw
Vhlmt Kbvt, latee ikhvxxw mh Ltg Chlx, Vhlmt Kbvt, tgw maxkx mxfihktkber
xlmtuebla max axtwjntkmxkl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh mahlx makxx Lmtmxl. B
mhhd mabl tvmbhg yhk patm B kxztkwxw tl max itktfhngm bgmxkxlml hy mabl
vhngmkr. Bm ptl wxoxehixw nihg tg bgoxlmbztmbhg ur max Lxvkxmtkr hy Lmtmx
matm max Zhoxkgfxgm hy Gbvtktznt, pabex ghm ngpbeebgz mh kxvxbox Fk. Fxkkr
bg abl wbiehftmbv jntebmr, ptl ngtuex mh wh lh uxvtnlx hy max vhfitvm
vhgvenwxw Cngx 20, 1895, paxkxur matm Kxinuebv tgw mahlx hy Lteotwhk tgw
Ahgwnktl, yhkfbgz patm bl dghpg tl max Zkxtmxk Kxinuebv hy Vxgmkte Tfxkbvt,
atw lnkkxgwxkxw mh max kxikxlxgmtmbox Wbxm maxkxhy maxbk kbzam mh kxvxbox
tgw lxgw wbiehftmbv tzxgml. Max Wbxm ptl ghm pbeebgz mh tvvxim abf uxvtnlx
ax ptl ghm tvvkxwbmxw mh matm uhwr. B vhnew ghm tvvkxwbm abf mh matm uhwr
uxvtnlx max tiikhikbtmbhg etp hy Vhgzkxll wbw ghm ixkfbm bm. Fk. Utdxk, max
ikxlxgm fbgblmxk tm Ftgtznt, atl uxxg wbkxvmxw mh ikxlxgm abl exmmxkl hy
kxvtee.

Fk. P. Zhwykxr Angmxk atl ebdxpblx uxxg tvvkxwbmxw mh max Zhoxkgfxgml hy
Zntmxftet tgw Ahgwnktl, max ltfx tl abl ikxwxvxllhk. Zntmxftet bl ghm t
fxfuxk hy max Zkxtmxk Kxinuebv hy Vxgmkte Tfxkbvt, unm Ahgwnktl bl. Lahnew
mabl etmmxk Zhoxkgfxgm wxvebgx mh kxvxbox abf, ax atl uxxg bglmknvmxw mh
kxihkm mabl ytvm mh abl Zhoxkgfxgm tgw tptbm bml ynkmaxk bglmknvmbhgl.

T lnucxvm hy etkzx bfihkmtgvx mh hnk vhngmkr, tgw bgvkxtlbgz tiikxvbtmbhg
hg max itkm hy max ixhiex, bl max vhfiexmbhg hy max zkxtm abzaptr hy mktwx
uxmpxxg max Tmetgmbv tgw Itvbybv, dghpg tl max Gbvtktznt Vtgte. Bml nmbebmr
tgw otenx mh Tfxkbvtg vhffxkvx bl ngboxklteer twfbmmxw. Max Vhffbllbhg
tiihbgmxw ngwxk wtmx hy Cner 24 etlm "mh vhgmbgnx max lnkoxrl tgw
xqtfbgtmbhgl tnmahkbsxw ur max tvm tiikhoxw Ftkva 2, 1895," bg kxztkw mh
"max ikhixk khnmx, yxtlbubebmr, tgw vhlm hy vhglmknvmbhg hy max Gbvtktznt
Vtgte, pbma t obxp hy ftdbgz vhfiexmx ietgl yhk max xgmbkx phkd hy
vhglmknvmbhg hy lnva vtgte," bl ghp xfiehrxw bg max ngwxkmtdbgz. Bg max
ynmnkx B latee mtdx hvvtlbhg mh mktglfbm mh Vhgzkxll max kxihkm hy mabl
Vhffbllbhg, ftdbgz tm max ltfx mbfx lnva ynkmaxk lnzzxlmbhgl tl ftr maxg
lxxf twobltuex.

Ngwxk max ikhoblbhgl hy max tvm hy Vhgzkxll tiikhoxw Ftkva 3, 1897, yhk max
ikhfhmbhg hy tg bgmxkgtmbhgte tzkxxfxgm kxlixvmbgz ubfxmteeblf, B tiihbgmxw
hg max 14ma wtr hy Tikbe, 1897, Ahg. Xwptkw H. Phevhmm hy Vhehktwh, Ahg.
Twetb X. Lmxoxglhg hy Beebghbl, tgw Ahg. Vatkexl C. Itbgx hy Ftlltvanlxmml,
tl lixvbte xgohrl mh kxikxlxgm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Maxr atox uxxg wbebzxgm
bg maxbk xyyhkml mh lxvnkx max vhgvnkkxgvx tgw vhhixktmbhg hy Xnkhixtg
vhngmkbxl bg max bgmxkgtmbhgte lxmmexfxgm hy max jnxlmbhg, unm ni mh mabl
mbfx atox ghm uxxg tuex mh lxvnkx tg tzkxxfxgm vhgmxfietmxw ur maxbk
fbllbhg.

Max zktmbyrbgz tvmbhg hy hnk zkxtm lblmxk Kxinuebv hy Yktgvx bg chbgbgz
mabl vhngmkr bg max tmmxfim mh ukbgz tuhnm tg tzkxxfxgm tfhgz max ikbgvbite
vhffxkvbte gtmbhgl hy Xnkhix, paxkxur t ybqxw tgw kxetmbox otenx uxmpxxg
zhew tgw lbeoxk latee ux lxvnkxw, ynkgblaxl tllnktgvx matm px tkx ghm tehgx
tfhgz max etkzxk gtmbhgl hy max phkew bg kxtebsbgz max bgmxkgtmbhgte
vatktvmxk hy max ikhuexf tgw bg max wxlbkx hy kxtvabgz lhfx pblx tgw
iktvmbvte lhenmbhg hy bm. Max Ukbmbla Zhoxkgfxgm atl inueblaxw t kxlnfx hy
max lmxil mtdxg chbgmer ur max Ykxgva tfutlltwhk bg Ehgwhg tgw max lixvbte
xgohrl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, pbma pahf hnk tfutlltwhk tm Ehgwhg tvmboxer
vh-hixktmxw bg max ikxlxgmtmbhg hy mabl lnucxvm mh Axk Ftcxlmr'l
Zhoxkgfxgm. Mabl pbee ux etbw uxyhkx Vhgzkxll.

Hnk lixvbte xgohrl atox ghm ftwx maxbk ybgte kxihkm, tl ynkmaxk
gxzhmbtmbhgl uxmpxxg max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tgw max
Zhoxkgfxgml hy hmaxk vhngmkbxl tkx ixgwbgz tgw bg vhgmxfietmbhg. Maxr
uxebxox matm whnuml pabva atox uxxg ktblxw bg vxkmtbg jntkmxkl kxlixvmbgz
max ihlbmbhg hy ftbgmtbgbgz max lmtubebmr hy max itkbmr uxmpxxg max fxmtel
tgw dbgwkxw jnxlmbhgl ftr rxm ux lheoxw ur ynkmaxk gxzhmbtmbhgl.

Fxtgpabex bm zboxl fx ltmblytvmbhg mh lmtmx matm max lixvbte xgohrl atox
tekxtwr wxfhglmktmxw maxbk tubebmr tgw ybmgxll mh wxte pbma max lnucxvm,
tgw bm bl mh ux xtkgxlmer ahixw matm maxbk etuhkl ftr kxlnem bg tg
bgmxkgtmbhgte tzkxxfxgm pabva pbee ukbgz tuhnm kxvhzgbmbhg hy uhma zhew tgw
lbeoxk tl fhgxr nihg lnva mxkfl, tgw pbma lnva ltyxzntkwl tl pbee lxvnkx
max nlx hy uhma fxmtel nihg t utlbl pabva latee phkd gh bgcnlmbvx mh tgr
vetll hy hnk vbmbsxgl.

Bg hkwxk mh xqxvnmx tl xtker tl ihllbuex max ikhoblbhgl hy max mabkw tgw
yhnkma lxvmbhgl hy max Kxoxgnx Tvm, tiikhoxw Cner 24, 1897, B tiihbgmxw max
Ahg. Chag T. Dtllhg hy Bhpt, t lixvbte vhffbllbhgxk iexgbihmxgmbtkr mh
ngwxkmtdx max kxjnblbmx gxzhmbtmbhgl pbma yhkxbzg vhngmkbxl wxlbkbgz mh
totbe maxflxeoxl hy maxlx ikhoblbhgl. Max gxzhmbtmbhgl tkx ghp ikhvxxwbgz
pbma lxoxkte Zhoxkgfxgml, uhma Xnkhixtg tgw Tfxkbvtg. Bm bl uxebxoxw matm
ur t vtkxyne xqxkvblx hy max ihpxkl vhgyxkkxw ur matm Tvm lhfx zkbxotgvxl
hy hnk hpg tgw hy hmaxk vhngmkbxl bg hnk fnmnte mktwx kxetmbhgl ftr ux
xbmaxk kxfhoxw, hk etkzxer teexobtmxw, tgw matm max ohenfx hy hnk
vhffxkvbte xqvatgzxl ftr ux xgetkzxw, pbma twotgmtzx mh uhma vhgmktvmbgz
itkmbxl.

Fhlm wxlbktuex ykhf xoxkr lmtgwihbgm hy gtmbhgte bgmxkxlm tgw itmkbhmblf bl
max xyyhkm mh xqmxgw hnk yhkxbzg vhffxkvx. Mh mabl xgw hnk fxkvatgm ftkbgx
lahnew ux bfikhoxw tgw xgetkzxw. Px lahnew wh hnk ynee latkx hy max
vtkkrbgz mktwx hy max phkew. Px wh ghm wh bm ghp. Px lahnew ux max etzztkw
gh ehgzxk. Max bgyxkbhkbmr hy hnk fxkvatgm ftkbgx bl cnlmer anfbebtmbgz mh
max gtmbhgte ikbwx. Max Zhoxkgfxgm ur xoxkr ikhixk vhglmbmnmbhgte fxtgl,
lahnew tbw bg ftdbgz hnk labil ytfbebtk oblbmhkl tm xoxkr vhffxkvbte ihkm
hy max phkew, manl hixgbgz ni gxp tgw otentuex ftkdxml mh max lnkienl
ikhwnvml hy max ytkf tgw max ytvmhkr.

Max xyyhkml pabva atw uxxg ftwx wnkbgz max mph ikxobhnl rxtkl ur fr
ikxwxvxllhk mh lxvnkx uxmmxk ikhmxvmbhg mh max ynk lxtel bg max Ghkma
Itvbybv Hvxtg tgw Uxkbgz Lxt, pxkx kxgxpxw tm tg xtker wtmx ur mabl
Twfbgblmktmbhg, tgw atox uxxg inklnxw pbma xtkgxlmgxll. Nihg fr bgobmtmbhg,
max Zhoxkgfxgml hy Ctitg tgw Knllbt lxgm wxexztmxl mh Ptlabgzmhg, tgw tg
bgmxkgtmbhgte vhgyxkxgvx ptl axew wnkbgz max fhgmal hy Hvmhuxk tgw Ghoxfuxk
etlm, paxkxbg bm ptl ngtgbfhnler tzkxxw matm ngwxk max xqblmbgz kxznetmbhgl
mabl lixvbxl hy nlxyne tgbftel ptl makxtmxgxw pbma xqmbgvmbhg, tgw matm tg
bgmxkgtmbhgte tzkxxfxgm hy tee max bgmxkxlmxw ihpxkl ptl gxvxlltkr yhk
maxbk twxjntmx ikhmxvmbhg.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm hy Zkxtm Ukbmtbg wbw ghm lxx ikhixk mh ux kxikxlxgmxw tm
mabl vhgyxkxgvx, unm lnulxjnxgmer lxgm mh Ptlabgzmhg, tl wxexztmxl, max
xqixkm vhffbllbhgxkl hy Zkxtm Ukbmtbg tgw Vtgtwt pah atw, wnkbgz max itlm
mph rxtkl, oblbmxw max Ikbubehy Bletgwl, tgw pah fxm bg vhgyxkxgvx lbfbetk
vhffbllbhgxkl hg max itkm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Max kxlnem hy mabl
vhgyxkxgvx ptl tg tzkxxfxgm hg bfihkmtgm ytvml vhggxvmxw pbma max vhgwbmbhg
hy max lxte axkw, axkxmhyhkx bg wblinmx, pabva lahnew ietvx uxrhgw
vhgmkhoxklr max wnmr hy max Zhoxkgfxgml vhgvxkgxw mh twhim fxtlnkxl pbmahnm
wxetr yhk max ikxlxkotmbhg tgw kxlmhktmbhg hy max axkw. Gxzhmbtmbhgl mh
mabl xgw tkx ghp bg ikhzkxll, max kxlnem hy pabva B ahix mh ux tuex mh
kxihkm mh Vhgzkxll tm tg xtker wtr.

Bgmxkgtmbhgte tkubmktmbhg vtgghm ux hfbmmxw ykhf max eblm hy lnucxvml
vetbfbgz hnk vhglbwxktmbhg. Xoxgml atox hger lxkoxw mh lmkxgzmaxg max
zxgxkte obxpl hg mabl jnxlmbhg xqikxllxw bg fr bgtnznkte twwkxll. Max uxlm
lxgmbfxgm hy max vbobebsxw phkew bl fhobgz mhptkw max lxmmexfxgm hy
wbyyxkxgvxl uxmpxxg gtmbhgl pbmahnm kxlhkmbgz mh max ahkkhkl hy ptk.
Mkxtmbxl xfuhwrbgz maxlx anftgx ikbgvbiexl hg ukhtw ebgxl, pbmahnm bg tgr
ptr bfixkbebgz hnk bgmxkxlml hk hnk ahghk, latee atox fr vhglmtgm
xgvhnktzxfxgm.

Max tvvximtgvx ur mabl Zhoxkgfxgm hy max bgobmtmbhg hy max Kxinuebv hy
Yktgvx mh itkmbvbitmx bg max Ngboxklte Xqihlbmbhg hy 1900, tm Itkbl, ptl
bffxwbtmxer yheehpxw ur max tiihbgmfxgm hy t lixvbte vhffbllbhgxk mh
kxikxlxgm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg max ikhihlxw xqihlbmbhg, pbma lixvbte
kxyxkxgvx mh max lxvnkbgz hy litvx yhk tg twxjntmx xqabubm hg uxatey hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Max lixvbte vhffbllbhgxk wxetrxw abl wxitkmnkx yhk Itkbl ehgz xghnza mh
tlvxkmtbg max ikhutuex wxftgw yhk litvx ur Tfxkbvtg xqabubmhkl. Abl
bgjnbkbxl wxoxehixw tg tefhlm ngikxvxwxgmxw bgmxkxlm bg max ikhihlxw
xqihlbmbhg, tgw max bgyhkftmbhg manl tvjnbkxw xgtuexw abf mh cnlmbyr tg
tiiebvtmbhg yhk t fnva etkzxk teehmfxgm hy litvx yhk max Tfxkbvtg lxvmbhg
matg atw uxxg kxlxkoxw ur max xqihlbmbhg tnmahkbmbxl. Max kxlnem ptl
itkmbvnetker zktmbyrbgz, bg obxp hy max ytvm matm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ptl hgx
hy max etlm vhngmkbxl mh tvvxim max bgobmtmbhg hy Yktgvx.

Max kxvximbhg tvvhkwxw hnk lixvbte vhffbllbhgxk ptl fhlm vhkwbte, tgw ax
ptl zboxg xoxkr kxtlhgtuex tllnktgvx matm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl phnew kxvxbox t
vhglbwxktmbhg vhffxglnktmx pbma max ikhihkmbhgl hy hnk xqabubm. Max kxihkm
hy max lixvbte vhffbllbhgxk tl mh max ftzgbmnwx tgw bfihkmtgvx hy max
vhfbgz xqihlbmbhg, tgw max zkxtm wxftgw yhk litvx ur Tfxkbvtg xqabubmhkl,
lniiebxl gxp tkznfxgml yhk t ebuxkte tgw cnwbvbhnl tiikhikbtmbhg ur
Vhgzkxll, mh max xgw matm tg xqabubm ytbker kxikxlxgmtmbox hy max
bgwnlmkbxl tgw kxlhnkvxl hy hnk vhngmkr ftr ux ftwx bg tg xqihlbmbhg pabva
pbee beenlmktmx max phkew'l ikhzkxll wnkbgz max gbgxmxxgma vxgmnkr. Matm
xqihlbmbhg bl bgmxgwxw mh ux max fhlm bfihkmtgm tgw vhfikxaxglbox hy max
ehgz lxkbxl hy bgmxkgtmbhgte xqabubmbhgl, hy pabva hnk hpg tm Vabvtzh ptl t
ukbeebtgm xqtfiex, tgw bm bl wxlbktuex matm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl lahnew ftdx t
phkmar xqabubm hy Tfxkbvtg zxgbnl tgw ldbee tgw maxbk ngkbotexw
tvabxoxfxgml bg xoxkr uktgva hy bgwnlmkr.

Max ikxlxgm bffxwbtmxer xyyxvmbox yhkvx hy max Gtor vhglblml hy yhnk utmmex
labil hy max ybklm vetll, mph hy max lxvhgw, tgw yhkmr-xbzam hmaxk oxllxel,
ktgzbgz ykhf tkfhkxw vknblxkl mh mhkixwh uhtml. Maxkx tkx ngwxk
vhglmknvmbhg ybox utmmex labil hy max ybklm vetll, lbqmxxg mhkixwh uhtml,
tgw hgx lnuftkbgx uhtm. Gh ikhoblbhg atl rxm uxxg ftwx yhk max tkfhk hy
makxx hy max ybox utmmex labil, tl bm atl uxxg bfihllbuex mh humtbg bm tm
max ikbvx ybqxw ur Vhgzkxll. Bm bl hy zkxtm bfihkmtgvx matm Vhgzkxll
ikhobwx mabl tkfhk, tl ngmbe maxg max labil tkx hy gh ybzambgz otenx.

Max ikxlxgm gtote yhkvx, xlixvbteer bg obxp hy bml bgvkxtlx ur max labil
ghp ngwxk vhglmknvmbhg, pabex ghm tl etkzx tl matm hy t yxp hmaxk ihpxkl,
bl t yhkfbwtuex yhkvx; bml oxllxel tkx max oxkr uxlm hy xtva mrix; tgw pbma
max bgvkxtlx matm lahnew ux ftwx mh bm ykhf mbfx mh mbfx bg max ynmnkx, tgw
vtkxyne tmmxgmbhg mh dxxibgz bm bg t abza lmtmx hy xyybvbxgvr tgw kxitbk,
bm bl pxee twtimxw mh max gxvxllbmbxl hy max vhngmkr.

Max zkxtm bgvkxtlx hy max Gtor pabva atl mtdxg ietvx bg kxvxgm rxtkl ptl
cnlmbybxw ur max kxjnbkxfxgml yhk gtmbhgte wxyxglx, tgw atl kxvxboxw inuebv
tiikhutmbhg. Max mbfx atl ghp tkkboxw, ahpxoxk, paxg mabl bgvkxtlx, mh
pabva max vhngmkr bl vhffbmmxw, lahnew, yhk t mbfx, mtdx max yhkf hy
bgvkxtlxw ytvbebmbxl vhffxglnktmx pbma max bgvkxtlx hy hnk gtote oxllxel.
Bm bl tg ngyhkmngtmx ytvm matm maxkx bl hger hgx whvd hg max Itvbybv Vhtlm
vtituex hy whvdbgz hnk etkzxlm labil, tgw hger hgx hg max Tmetgmbv Vhtlm,
tgw matm max etmmxk atl yhk max etlm lbq hk lxoxg fhgmal uxxg ngwxk kxitbk
tgw maxkxyhkx bgvtituex hy nlx. Bffxwbtmx lmxil lahnew ux mtdxg mh ikhobwx
makxx hk yhnk whvdl hy mabl vtitvbmr hg max Tmetgmbv Vhtlm, tm extlm hgx hg
max Itvbybv Vhtlm, tgw t yehtmbgz whvd bg max Zney. Mabl bl max
kxvhffxgwtmbhg hy t oxkr vhfixmxgm Uhtkw, tiihbgmxw mh bgoxlmbztmx max
lnucxvm. Maxkx lahnew telh ux tfiex ikhoblbhg ftwx yhk ihpwxk tgw
ikhcxvmbexl, tgw hmaxk fngbmbhgl hy ptk, tgw yhk tg bgvkxtlxw gnfuxk hy
hyybvxkl tgw xgeblmxw fxg. Lhfx twwbmbhgl tkx telh gxvxlltkr mh hnk
gtor-rtkwl, yhk max kxitbk tgw vtkx hy hnk etkzx gnfuxk hy oxllxel. Tl
maxkx tkx ghp hg max lmhvdl ybox utmmex labil hy max etkzxlm vetll, pabva
vtgghm ux vhfiexmxw yhk t rxtk hk mph, B vhgvnk pbma max kxvhffxgwtmbhg hy
max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Gtor yhk tg tiikhikbtmbhg tnmahkbsbgz max vhglmknvmbhg
hy hgx utmmex labi yhk max Itvbybv Vhtlm, paxkx, tm ikxlxgm, maxkx bl hger
hgx bg vhffbllbhg tgw hgx ngwxk vhglmknvmbhg, pabex hg max Tmetgmbv Vhtlm
maxkx tkx makxx bg vhffbllbhg tgw yhnk ngwxk vhglmknvmbhg; tgw telh matm
lxoxkte mhkixwh uhtml ux tnmahkbsxw bg vhggxvmbhg pbma hnk zxgxkte lrlmxf
hy vhtlm wxyxglx.

Max Mxkkbmhkr hy Tetldt kxjnbkxl max ikhfim tgw xtker tmmxgmbhg hy
Vhgzkxll. Max vhgwbmbhgl ghp xqblmbgz wxftgw ftmxkbte vatgzxl bg max etpl
kxetmbgz mh max Mxkkbmhkr. Max zkxtm bgyenq hy ihinetmbhg wnkbgz max itlm
lnffxk tgw ytee tgw max ikhlixvm hy t lmbee etkzxk bffbzktmbhg bg max
likbgz pbee ghm ixkfbm nl mh ehgzxk gxzexvm max xqmxglbhg hy vbobe
tnmahkbmr pbmabg max Mxkkbmhkr hk ihlmihgx max xlmtueblafxgm hy t fhkx
mahkhnza zhoxkgfxgm.

T zxgxkte lrlmxf hy inuebv lnkoxrl atl ghm rxm uxxg xqmxgwxw mh Tetldt tgw
tee xgmkbxl manl ytk ftwx bg matm wblmkbvm tkx nihg lixvbte lnkoxrl. Max
tvm hy Vhgzkxll xqmxgwbgz mh Tetldt max fbgbgz etpl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
vhgmtbgxw max kxlxkotmbhg matm bm lahnew ghm ux vhglmknxw mh inm bg yhkvx
max zxgxkte etgw etpl hy max vhngmkr. Ur tvm tiikhoxw Ftkva 3, 1891,
tnmahkbmr ptl zboxg yhk xgmkr hy etgwl yhk mhpg-lbmx inkihlxl tgw telh yhk
max inkvatlx hy ghm xqvxxwbgz hgx angwkxw tgw lbqmr tvkxl maxg hk
maxkxtymxk hvvnibxw yhk inkihlxl hy mktwx tgw ftgnytvmnkx. Max inkihlx hy
Vhgzkxll tl manl ytk xqikxllxw atl uxxg matm hger lnva kbzaml lahnew tiier
mh matm Mxkkbmhkr tl lahnew ux lixvbybvteer gtfxw.

Bm pbee ux lxxg ahp fnva kxftbgl mh ux whgx yhk matm otlm tgw kxfhmx tgw
rxm ikhfblbgz ihkmbhg hy hnk vhngmkr. Lixvbte tnmahkbmr ptl zboxg mh max
Ikxlbwxgm ur max Tvm hy Vhgzkxll tiikhoxw Cner 24, 1897, mh wbobwx matm
Mxkkbmhkr bgmh mph etgw wblmkbvml tgw mh wxlbzgtmx max uhngwtkbxl maxkxhy
tgw mh tiihbgm kxzblmxkl tgw kxvxboxkl hy ltbw etgw hyybvxl, tgw max
Ikxlbwxgm ptl telh tnmahkbsxw mh tiihbgm t lnkoxrhk-zxgxkte yhk max xgmbkx
wblmkbvm. Inklntgm mh mabl tnmahkbmr, t lnkoxrhk-zxgxkte tgw kxvxboxk atox
uxxg tiihbgmxw, pbma hyybvxl tm Lbmdt. By bg max xglnbgz rxtk max
vhgwbmbhgl cnlmbyr bm, max twwbmbhgte etgw wblmkbvm tnmahkbsxw ur etp pbee
ux xlmtueblaxw, pbma tg hyybvx tm lhfx ihbgm bg max Rndhg Oteexr. Gh
tiikhikbtmbhg, ahpxoxk, ptl ftwx yhk mabl inkihlx, tgw matm bl ghp
gxvxlltkr mh ux whgx yhk max mph etgw wblmkbvml bgmh pabva max Mxkkbmhkr bl
mh ux wbobwxw.

B vhgvnk pbma max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk bg abl lnzzxlmbhgl tl mh max gxvxllbmr
yhk t fbebmtkr yhkvx bg max Mxkkbmhkr hy Tetldt yhk max ikhmxvmbhg hy
ixklhgl tgw ikhixkmr. Tekxtwr t lftee yhkvx, vhglblmbgz hy mpxgmr-ybox fxg,
pbma mph hyybvxkl, ngwxk vhfftgw hy Ebxnmxgtgm-Vhehgxe Ktgwtee, hy max
Xbzama Bgytgmkr, atl uxxg lxgm mh Lm. Fbvatxe mh xlmtuebla t fbebmtkr
ihlm.

Tl bm bl mh max bgmxkxlm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm mh xgvhnktzx max wxoxehifxgm tgw
lxmmexfxgm hy max vhngmkr tgw bml wnmr mh yheehp ni bml vbmbsxgl maxkx pbma
max uxgxybml hy exzte ftvabgxkr, B xtkgxlmer nkzx nihg Vhgzkxll max
xlmtueblafxgm hy t lrlmxf hy zhoxkgfxgm pbma lnva yexqbubebmr tl pbee
xgtuex bm mh twcnlm bmlxey mh max ynmnkx tkxtl hy zkxtmxlm ihinetmbhg.

Max lmtkmebgz mahnza ihllbuer xqtzzxktmxw kxihkml ykhf max Rndhg Kboxk
vhngmkr, hy max ikhutuex lahkmtzx hy yhhw yhk max etkzx gnfuxk hy ixhiex
pah tkx pbgmxkbgz maxkx pbmahnm max fxtgl hy extobgz max vhngmkr tkx
vhgybkfxw bg lnva fxtlnkx tl mh cnlmbyr ukbgzbgz max ftmmxk mh max
tmmxgmbhg hy Vhgzkxll. Tvvxll mh matm vhngmkr bg pbgmxk vtg ux atw hger ur
max itllxl ykhf Wrxt tgw obvbgbmr, pabva bl t fhlm wbyybvnem tgw ixkatil tg
bfihllbuex mtld. Ahpxoxk, lahnew maxlx kxihkml hy max lnyyxkbgz hy hnk
yxeehp-vbmbsxgl ux ynkmaxk oxkbybxw, xoxkr xyyhkm tm tgr vhlm lahnew ux
ftwx mh vtkkr maxf kxebxy.

Yhk t gnfuxk hy rxtkl itlm bm atl uxxg tiitkxgm matm max vhgwbmbhgl ngwxk
pabva max Ybox Vbobebsxw Mkbuxl pxkx xlmtueblaxw bg max Bgwbtg Mxkkbmhkr
ngwxk mkxtmr ikhoblbhgl pbma max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, pbma max kbzam hy
lxey-zhoxkgfxgm tgw max xqvenlbhg hy tee pabmx ixklhgl ykhf pbmabg maxbk
uhkwxkl, atox ngwxkzhgx lh vhfiexmx t vatgzx tl mh kxgwxk max vhgmbgntgvx
hy max lrlmxf manl bgtnznktmxw iktvmbvteer bfihllbuex. Max mhmte gnfuxk hy
max Ybox Vbobebsxw Mkbuxl, tl lahpg ur max etlm vxglnl, bl 45,494, tgw mabl
gnfuxk atl ghm ftmxkbteer bgvkxtlxw; pabex max pabmx ihinetmbhg bl
xlmbftmxw tm ykhf 200,000 mh 250,000 pabva, ur ixkfbllbhg hy max Bgwbtg
Zhoxkgfxgm atl lxmmexw bg max Mxkkbmhkr. Max ikxlxgm tkxt hy max Bgwbtg
Mxkkbmhkr vhgmtbgl 25,694,564 tvkxl, fnva hy pabva bl oxkr yxkmbex etgw.
Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl vbmbsxgl kxlbwbgz bg max Mxkkbmhkr, fhlm hy pahf atox
zhgx maxkx ur bgobmtmbhg hk pbma max vhglxgm hy max mkbute tnmahkbmbxl,
atox ftwx ixkftgxgm ahfxl yhk maxflxeoxl. Gnfxkhnl mhpgl atox uxxg unbem bg
pabva ykhf 500 mh 5,000 pabmx ixhiex ghp kxlbwx. Otentuex kxlbwxgvxl tgw
unlbgxll ahnlxl atox uxxg xkxvmxw bg ftgr hy maxf. Etkzx unlbgxll
xgmxkikblxl tkx vtkkbxw hg bg pabva otlm lnfl hy fhgxr tkx xfiehrxw, tgw
rxm maxlx ixhiex, pah atox bgoxlmxw maxbk vtibmte bg max wxoxehifxgm hy max
ikhwnvmbox kxlhnkvxl hy max vhngmkr, tkx pbmahnm mbmex mh max etgw maxr
hvvnir, tgw atox gh ohbvx patmxoxk bg max zhoxkgfxgm xbmaxk hy max Gtmbhgl
hk Mkbuxl. Mahnltgwl hy maxbk vabewkxg pah pxkx uhkg bg max Mxkkbmhkr tkx
hy lvahhe tzx, unm max whhkl hy max lvahhel hy max Gtmbhgl tkx lanm tztbglm
maxf, tgw patm xwnvtmbhg maxr zxm bl ur ikbotmx vhgmkbunmbhg. Gh ikhoblbhg
yhk max ikhmxvmbhg hy max ebyx hk ikhixkmr hy maxlx pabmx vbmbsxgl bl ftwx
ur max Mkbute Zhoxkgfxgml tgw Vhnkml.

Max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk kxihkml matm extwbgz Bgwbtgl atox tulhkuxw
zkxtm mktvml hy etgw mh max xqvenlbhg hy max vhffhg ixhiex, tgw zhoxkgfxgm
ur tg Bgwbtg tkblmhvktvr atl uxxg iktvmbvteer xlmtueblaxw, mh max wxmkbfxgm
hy max ixhiex. Bm atl uxxg yhngw bfihllbuex yhk max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh dxxi
bml vbmbsxgl hnm hy max Mxkkbmhkr, tgw max xqxvnmhkr vhgwbmbhgl vhgmtbgxw
bg max mkxtmbxl pbma maxlx Gtmbhgl atox yhk max fhlm itkm uxvhfx bfihllbuex
hy xqxvnmbhg. Ghk atl bm uxxg ihllbuex yhk max Mkbute Zhoxkgfxgml mh lxvnkx
mh xtva bgwbobwnte Bgwbtg abl ynee xgchrfxgm bg vhffhg pbma Hmaxk Bgwbtgl
hy max vhffhg ikhixkmr hy max Gtmbhgl. Ykbxgwl hy max Bgwbtgl atox ehgz
uxebxoxw matm max uxlm bgmxkxlml hy max Bgwbtgl hy max Ybox Vbobebsxw
Mkbuxl phnew ux yhngw bg Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxglabi, pbma tee max kbzaml tgw
ikbobexzxl pabva uxehgz mh matm vhgwbmbhg.

Ur lxvmbhg 16, hy max tvm hy Ftkva 3, 1893, max Ikxlbwxgm ptl tnmahkbsxw mh
tiihbgm makxx vhffbllbhgxkl mh xgmxk bgmh gxzhmbtmbhgl pbma max Vaxkhdxx,
Vahvmtp, Vabvdtltp, Fnlvhzxx (hk Vkxxd), tgw Lxfbghex Gtmbhgl, vhffhger
dghpg tl max Ybox Vbobebsxw Mkbuxl bg max Bgwbtg Mxkkbmhkr. Ukbxyer, max
inkihlxl hy max gxzhmbtmbhgl pxkx mh ux: Max xqmbgznblafxgm hy Mkbute
mbmexl mh tgr etgwl pbmabg matm Mxkkbmhkr ghp axew ur tgr tgw tee lnva
Gtmbhgl hk Mkbuxl, xbmaxk ur vxllbhg hy max ltfx hk lhfx itkm maxkxhy mh
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, hk ur teehmfxgm tgw wboblbhg hy max ltfx bg lxoxktemr
tfhgz max Bgwbtgl hy lnva Gtmbhgl hk Mkbuxl kxlixvmboxer tl ftr ux xgmbmexw
mh max ltfx, hk ur lnva hmaxk fxmahw tl ftr ux tzkxxw nihg uxmpxxg max
lxoxkte Gtmbhgl tgw Mkbuxl tyhkxltbw, hk xtva hy maxf, pbma max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl, pbma t obxp mh lnva tg twcnlmfxgm nihg max utlbl hy cnlmbvx tgw
xjnbmr tl ftr, pbma max vhglxgm hy max ltbw Gtmbhgl hy Bgwbtgl lh ytk tl
ftr ux gxvxlltkr, ux kxjnblbmx tgw lnbmtuex mh xgtuex max nembftmx vkxtmbhg
hy t Lmtmx hk Lmtmxl hy max Ngbhg pabva latee xfuktvx max etgwl pbmabg ltbw
Bgwbtg Mxkkbmhkr.

Max Vhffbllbhg fxm fnva hiihlbmbhg ykhf max uxzbggbgz. Max Bgwbtgl pxkx
oxkr lehp mh tvm, tgw mahlx bg vhgmkhe ftgbyxlmxw t wxvbwxw wblbgvebgtmbhg
mh fxxm pbma ytohk max ikhihlbmbhgl lnufbmmxw mh maxf. T ebmmex fhkx matg
makxx rxtkl tymxk mabl hkztgbstmbhg max Vhffbllbhg xyyxvmxw tg tzkxxfxgm
pbma max Vahvmtp Gtmbhg tehgx. Max Vabvdtltpl, ahpxoxk, kxynlxw mh tzkxx mh
bml mxkfl, tgw tl maxr atox t vhffhg bgmxkxlm pbma max Vahvmtpl bg max
etgwl hy ltbw Gtmbhgl, max tzkxxfxgm pbma max etmmxk Gtmbhg vhnew atox gh
xyyxvm pbmahnm max vhglxgm hy max yhkfxk. Hg Tikbe 23, 1897, max Vhffbllbhg
xyyxvmxw tg tzkxxfxgm pbma uhma mkbuxl--max Vahvmtpl tgw Vabvdtltpl. Mabl
tzkxxfxgm, bm bl ngwxklmhhw, atl uxxg ktmbybxw ur max vhglmbmnmxw
tnmahkbmbxl hy max kxlixvmbox Mkbuxl hk Gtmbhgl itkmbxl maxkxmh, tgw hger
kxjnbkxl ktmbybvtmbhg ur Vhgzkxll mh ftdx bm ubgwbgz.

Hg max 27ma hy Lximxfuxk, 1897, tg tzkxxfxgm ptl xyyxvmxw pbma max Vkxxd
Gtmbhg, unm bm bl ngwxklmhhw matm max Gtmbhgte Vhngvbe hy ltbw Gtmbhg atl
kxynlxw mh ktmbyr max ltfx. Gxzhmbtmbhgl tkx rxm mh ux atw pbma max
Vaxkhdxxl, max fhlm ihinehnl hy max Ybox Vbobebsxw Mkbuxl, tgw pbma max
Lxfbghexl, max lfteexlm bg ihbgm hy gnfuxkl tgw mxkkbmhkr.

Max ikhoblbhg bg max Bgwbtg Tiikhikbtmbhg Tvm, tiikhoxw Cngx 10, 1896,
ftdxl bm max wnmr hy max Vhffbllbhg mh bgoxlmbztmx tgw wxmxkfbgx max kbzaml
hy tiiebvtgml yhk vbmbsxglabi bg max Ybox Vbobebsxw Mkbuxl, tgw mh ftdx
vhfiexmx vxglnl kheel hy max vbmbsxgl hy ltbw Mkbuxl. Max Vhffbllbhg bl tm
ikxlxgm xgztzxw bg mabl phkd tfhgz max Vkxxdl, tgw atl ftwx tiihbgmfxgml
yhk mtdbgz max vxglnl hy maxlx ixhiex ni mh tgw bgvenwbgz max 30ma hy max
ikxlxgm fhgma.

Lahnew max tzkxxfxgm uxmpxxg max Vahvmtpl tgw Vabvdtltpl ux ktmbybxw ur
Vhgzkxll tgw lahnew max hmaxk Mkbuxl ytbe mh ftdx tg tzkxxfxgm pbma max
Vhffbllbhg, maxg bm pbee ux gxvxlltkr matm lhfx exzbletmbhg latee ux atw ur
Vhgzkxll, pabva, pabex cnlm tgw ahghktuex mh max Bgwbtgl, latee ux
xjnbmtuex mh max pabmx ixhiex pah atox lxmmexw nihg maxlx etgwl ur
bgobmtmbhg hy max Mkbute Gtmbhgl.

Ahg. Axgkr E. Wtpxl, Vatbkftg hy max Vhffbllbhg, bg t exmmxk mh max
Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk, ngwxk wtmx hy Hvmhuxk 11, 1897, ltrl:
"Bgwbobwnte hpgxklabi bl, bg maxbk (max Vhffbllbhg'l) hibgbhg, tulhenmxer
xllxgmbte mh tgr ixkftgxgm bfikhoxfxgm bg ikxlxgm vhgwbmbhgl, tgw max etvd
hy bm bl max khhm hy gxtker tee max xobel pabva lh zkbxohnler tyyebvm maxlx
ixhiex. Teehmfxgm ur tzkxxfxgm bl max hger ihllbuex fxmahw, ngexll max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl Vhnkml tkx vehmaxw pbma max tnmahkbmr mh tiihkmbhg max etgwl
tfhgz max vbmbsxg Bgwbtgl yhk pahlx nlx bm ptl hkbzbgteer zktgmxw."

B vhgvnk pbma max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk matm maxkx vtg ux gh vnkx yhk
max xobel xgzxgwxkxw ur max ixkoxklbhg hy maxlx zkxtm mknlml, xqvximbgz ur
maxbk kxlnfimbhg ur max Zhoxkgfxgm pabva vkxtmxw maxf.

Max kxvxgm ikxotexgvx hy rxeehp yxoxk bg t gnfuxk hy vbmbxl tgw mhpgl
makhnzahnm max Lhnma atl kxlnemxw bg fnva wblmnkutgvx hy vhffxkvx, tgw
wxfhglmktmxw max gxvxllbmr hy lnva tfxgwfxgml mh hnk jntktgmbgx etpl tl
pbee ftdx max kxznetmbhgl hy max gtmbhgte jntktgmbgx tnmahkbmbxl itktfhngm.
Max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr, bg max ihkmbhg hy abl kxihkm kxetmbgz mh max
hixktmbhg hy max Ftkbgx Ahlibmte Lxkobvx, vteel tmmxgmbhg mh max wxyxvml bg
max ikxlxgm jntktgmbgx etpl, tgw kxvhffxgwl tfxgwfxgml maxkxmh pabva pbee
zbox max Mkxtlnkr Wxitkmfxgm max kxjnblbmx tnmahkbmr mh ikxoxgm max
bgotlbhg hy xibwxfbv wblxtlxl ykhf yhkxbzg vhngmkbxl, tgw bg mbfxl hy
xfxkzxgvr, ebdx matm hy max itlm lnffxk, pbee tww mh max xyybvbxgvr hy max
ltgbmtkr fxtlnkxl yhk max ikhmxvmbhg hy max ixhiex, tgw tm max ltfx mbfx
ikxoxgm nggxvxlltkr kxlmkbvmbhg hy vhffxkvx. B vhgvnk bg abl
kxvhffxgwtmbhg.

Bg ynkmaxk xyyhkm mh ikxoxgm max bgotlbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ur rxeehp
yxoxk, max bfihkmtgvx hy max wblvhoxkr hy max xqtvm vtnlx hy max wblxtlx,
pabva ni mh max ikxlxgm mbfx atl uxxg ngwxmxkfbgxw, bl huobhnl, tgw mh mabl
xgw t lrlmxftmbv utvmxkbhehzbvte bgoxlmbztmbhg lahnew ux ftwx. B maxkxyhkx
kxvhffxgw matm Vhgzkxll tnmahkbsx max tiihbgmfxgm hy t vhffbllbhg ur max
Ikxlbwxgm, mh vhglblm hy yhnk xqixkm utvmxkbhehzblml, hgx mh ux lxexvmxw
ykhf max fxwbvte hyybvxkl hy max Ftkbgx Ahlibmte Lxkobvx, hgx mh ux
tiihbgmxw ykhf vbobe ebyx, hgx mh ux wxmtbexw ykhf max fxwbvte hyybvxkl hy
max Tkfr, tgw hgx ykhf max fxwbvte hyybvxkl hy max Gtor.

Max Ngbhg Itvbybv Ktbeptr, Ftbg Ebgx, ptl lhew ngwxk max wxvkxx hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl Vhnkm yhk max Wblmkbvm hy Gxuktldt, hg max 1lm tgw 2w hy
Ghoxfuxk hy mabl rxtk. Max tfhngm wnx max Zhoxkgfxgm vhglblmxw hy max
ikbgvbite hy max lnulbwr uhgwl, $27,236,512, tgw max tvvknxw bgmxkxlm
maxkxhg, $31,211,711.75, ftdbgz max mhmte bgwxumxwgxll, $58,448,223.75. Max
ubw tm max ltex vhoxkxw max ybklm fhkmztzx ebxg tgw max xgmbkx fhkmztzx
vetbf hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, ikbgvbite tgw bgmxkxlm.

Max ltex hy max lnulbwbsxw ihkmbhg hy max Dtgltl Itvbybv Ebgx, nihg pabva
max Zhoxkgfxgm ahewl t lxvhgw fhkmztzx ebxg, atl uxxg ihlmihgxw tm max
bglmtgvx hy max Zhoxkgfxgm mh Wxvxfuxk 16, 1897. Max wxum hy mabl wboblbhg
hy max Ngbhg Itvbybv Ktbeptr mh max Zhoxkgfxgm hg Ghoxfuxk 1, 1897, ptl max
ikbgvbite hy max lnulbwr uhgwl, $6,303,000, tgw max ngitbw tgw tvvknxw
bgmxkxlm maxkxhg, $6,626,690.33, ftdbgz t mhmte hy $12,929,690.33.

Max ltex hy mabl khtw ptl hkbzbgteer twoxkmblxw yhk Ghoxfuxk 4, unm yhk max
inkihlx hy lxvnkbgz max nmfhlm inuebv ghmbvx hy max xoxgm bm ptl ihlmihgxw
ngmbe Wxvxfuxk 16, tgw t lxvhgw twoxkmblxfxgm hy max ltex ptl ftwx. Ur max
wxvkxx hy max Vhnkm, max nilxm ikbvx hg max ltex hy max Dtgltl Itvbybv pbee
rbxew mh max Zhoxkgfxgm max lnf hy $2,500,000 hoxk tee ikbhk ebxgl, vhlml,
tgw vatkzxl. By gh hmaxk hk uxmmxk ubw bl ftwx, mabl lnf bl tee matm max
Zhoxkgfxgm pbee kxvxbox hg bml vetbf hy gxtker $13,000,000. Max Zhoxkgfxgm
atl gh bgyhkftmbhg tl mh paxmaxk maxkx pbee ux hmaxk ubwwxkl hk t uxmmxk
ubw matg max fbgbfnf tfhngm axkxbg lmtmxw. Max jnxlmbhg ikxlxgmxw maxkxyhkx
bl: Paxmaxk max Zhoxkgfxgm latee, ngwxk max tnmahkbmr zboxg bm ur max tvm
hy Ftkva 3, 1887, inkvatlx hk kxwxxf max khtw bg max xoxgm matm t ubw bl
ghm ftwx ur ikbotmx itkmbxl vhoxkbgz max xgmbkx Zhoxkgfxgm vetbf. Mh
jntebyr max Zhoxkgfxgm mh ubw tm max ltexl pbee kxjnbkx t wxihlbm hy
$900,000, tl yheehpl: Bg max Zhoxkgfxgm vtnlx $500,000 tgw bg xtva hy max
ybklm fhkmztzx vtnlxl $200,000, tgw bg max etmmxk max wxihlbm fnlm ux bg
vtla. Itrfxgml tm max ltex tkx tl yheehpl: Nihg max tvvximtgvx hy max ubw t
lnf pabva pbma max tfhngm tekxtwr wxihlbmxw latee xjnte ybymxxg ixk vxgm hy
max ubw; max utetgvx bg bglmteefxgml hy mpxgmr-ybox ixk vxgm mabkmr, yhkmr,
tgw ybymr wtrl tymxk max vhgybkftmbhg hy max ltex. Max ebxg hg max Dtgltl
Itvbybv ikbhk mh matm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm hg max 30ma Cner, 1897, ikbgvbite
tgw bgmxkxlm, tfhngmxw mh $7,281,048.11. Max Zhoxkgfxgm, maxkxyhkx, lahnew
bm uxvhfx max abzaxlm ubwwxk, pbee atox mh itr max tfhngm hy max ybklm
fhkmztzx ebxg.

B uxebxox matm ngwxk max tvm hy 1887 bm atl max tnmahkbmr mh wh mabl tgw bg
tulxgvx hy tgr tvmbhg ur Vhgzkxll B latee wbkxvm max Lxvkxmtkr hy max
Mkxtlnkr mh ftdx max gxvxlltkr wxihlbm tl kxjnbkxw ur max Vhnkm'l wxvkxx mh
jntebyr tl t ubwwxk tgw mh ubw tm max ltex t lnf pabva pbee tm extlm xjnte
max ikbgvbite hy max wxum wnx mh max Zhoxkgfxgm; unm lnzzxlm bg hkwxk mh
kxfhox tee vhgmkhoxklr matm tg tfxgwfxgm hy max etp ux bffxwbtmxer itllxw
xqiebvbmer zbobgz lnva ihpxkl tgw tiikhikbtmbgz bg zxgxkte mxkfl patmxoxk
lnf bl lnyybvbxgm maxkxyhk.

Bg lh bfihkmtgm t ftmmxk tl max Zhoxkgfxgm uxvhfbgz max ihllbuex hpgxk hy
ktbekhtw ikhixkmr pabva bm ixkyhkvx fnlm vhgwnvm tgw hixktmx, B yxxe
vhglmktbgxw mh etr uxyhkx Vhgzkxll maxlx ytvml yhk bml vhglbwxktmbhg tgw
tvmbhg uxyhkx max vhglnfftmbhg hy max ltex. Bm bl vextk mh fr fbgw matm max
Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew ghm ixkfbm max ikhixkmr mh ux lhew tm t ikbvx pabva pbee
rbxew exll matg hgx-atey hy max ikbgvbite hy bml wxum tgw exll matg
hgx-ybyma hy bml xgmbkx wxum, ikbgvbite tgw bgmxkxlm. Unm paxmaxk max
Zhoxkgfxgm, ktmaxk matg tvvxim exll matg bml vetbf, lahnew uxvhfx t ubwwxk
tgw maxkxur max hpgxk hy max ikhixkmr, B lnufbm mh max Vhgzkxll yhk
tvmbhg.

Max Ebuktkr unbewbgz ikhobwxw yhk ur max tvm hy Vhgzkxll tiikhoxw Tikbe 15,
1886, atl uxxg vhfiexmxw tgw hixgxw mh max inuebv. Bm lahnew ux t ftmmxk hy
vhgzktmnetmbhg matm makhnza max yhkxlbzam tgw fngbybvxgvx hy Vhgzkxll max
gtmbhg ihllxllxl mabl ghuex mkxtlnkx-ahnlx hy dghpexwzx. Bm bl xtkgxlmer mh
ux ahixw matm atobgz whgx lh fnva mhptkw max vtnlx hy xwnvtmbhg, Vhgzkxll
pbee vhgmbgnx mh wxoxehi max Ebuktkr bg xoxkr iatlx hy kxlxtkva mh max xgw
matm bm ftr ux ghm hger hgx hy max fhlm ftzgbybvxgm unm tfhgz max kbvaxlm
tgw fhlm nlxyne ebuktkbxl bg max phkew.

Max bfihkmtgm uktgva hy hnk Zhoxkgfxgm dghpg tl max Vbobe Lxkobvx, max
iktvmbvte bfikhoxfxgm hy pabva atl ehgz uxxg t lnucxvm hy xtkgxlm
wblvnllbhg, atl hy etmx rxtkl kxvxboxw bgvkxtlxw exzbletmbox tgw Xqxvnmbox
tiikhote. Wnkbgz max itlm yxp fhgmal max lxkobvx atl uxxg ietvxw nihg t
lmbee ybkfxk utlbl hy unlbgxll fxmahwl tgw ixklhgte fxkbm. Pabex max kbzam
hy hnk oxmxktg lhewbxkl mh kxbglmtmxfxgm bg wxlxkobgz vtlxl atl uxxg
tllxkmxw, wblfblltel yhk fxkxer ihebmbvte kxtlhgl atox uxxg vtkxyneer
zntkwxw tztbglm, max xqtfbgtmbhgl yhk twfbmmtgvx mh max lxkobvx xgetkzxw
tgw tm max ltfx mbfx kxgwxkxw exll mxvagbvte tgw fhkx iktvmbvte; tgw t
wblmbgvm twotgvx atl uxxg ftwx ur zbobgz t axtkbgz uxyhkx wblfbllte nihg
tee vtlxl paxkx bgvhfixmxgvr bl vatkzxw hk wxftgw ftwx yhk max kxfhote hy
hyybvbtel bg tgr hy max Wxitkmfxgml. Mabl hkwxk atl uxxg ftwx mh zbox mh
max tvvnlxw abl kbzam mh ux axtkw unm pbmahnm bg tgrptr bfitbkbgz max ihpxk
hy kxfhote, pabva lahnew teptrl ux xqxkvblxw bg vtlxl hy bgxyybvbxgvr tgw
bgvhfixmxgvr, tgw pabva bl hgx hy max obmte ltyxzntkwl hy max vbobe lxkobvx
kxyhkf lrlmxf, ikxoxgmbgz lmtzgtmbhg tgw wxtwphhw tgw dxxibgz xoxkr
xfiehrxx dxxger tebox mh max ytvm matm max lxvnkbmr hy abl mxgnkx wxixgwl
ghm hg ytohk unm hg abl hpg mxlmxw tgw vtkxyneer ptmvaxw kxvhkw hy
lxkobvx.

Fnva hy vhnklx lmbee kxftbgl mh ux tvvhfieblaxw uxyhkx max lrlmxf vtg ux
ftwx kxtlhgtuer ixkyxvm yhk hnk gxxwl. Maxkx tkx ietvxl ghp bg max
vetllbybxw lxkobvx pabva hnzam mh ux xqxfimxw tgw hmaxkl ghm vetllbybxw ftr
ikhixker ux bgvenwxw. B latee ghm axlbmtmx mh xqxfim vtlxl pabva B mabgd
atox uxxg bfikhixker bgvenwxw bg max vetllbybxw lxkobvx hk bgvenwx mahlx
pabva bg fr cnwzfxgm pbee uxlm ikhfhmx max inuebv lxkobvx. Max lrlmxf atl
max tiikhote hy max ixhiex tgw bm pbee ux fr xgwxtohk mh niahew tgw xqmxgw
bm.

B tf yhkvxw ur max exgzma hy mabl Fxlltzx mh hfbm ftgr bfihkmtgm kxyxkxgvxl
mh tyytbkl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm pbma pabva Vhgzkxll pbee atox mh wxte tm max
ikxlxgm lxllbhg. Maxr tkx yneer wblvnllxw bg max wxitkmfxgmte kxihkml, mh
tee hy pabva B bgobmx rhnk xtkgxlm tmmxgmbhg.

Max xlmbftmxl hy max xqixglxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm ur max lxoxkte Wxitkmfxgml
pbee, B tf lnkx, atox rhnk vtkxyne lvknmbgr. Pabex max Vhgzkxll ftr ghm
ybgw bm tg xtlr mtld mh kxwnvx max xqixglxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, bm lahnew
ghm xgvhnktzx maxbk bgvkxtlx. Maxlx xqixglxl pbee bg fr cnwzfxgm twfbm hy t
wxvkxtlx bg ftgr uktgvaxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm pbmahnm bgcnkr mh max inuebv
lxkobvx. Bm bl t vhfftgwbgz wnmr mh dxxi max tiikhikbtmbhgl pbmabg max
kxvxbiml hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw manl tohbw t wxybvbm.