Kjqqtb-Hnynejsx tk ymj Xjsfyj fsi Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

Ymj fzxunhntzx hnwhzrxyfshjx zsijw bmnhm dtz bnqq htrrjshj ymj izynjx tk
ymj uwjxjsy xjxxnts bnqq qnlmyjs ymj gzwijsx nsxjufwfgqj kwtr ymj mnlm
ywzxy htrrnyyji yt dtz. Ymj kwznyx tk ymj jfwym mfaj gjjs zszxzfqqd
fgzsifsy, htrrjwhj mfx kqtzwnxmji, ymj wjajszj mfx jchjjiji ymj rtxy
kfatwfgqj fsynhnufynts, fsi ujfhj fsi frnyd fwj uwjxjwaji bnym ktwjnls
sfyntsx ts htsinyntsx ozxy fsi mtstwfgqj yt tzw htzsywd. Ktw ymjxj
nsjxynrfgqj gqjxxnslx bj hfs sty gzy gj lwfyjkzq yt ymfy Uwtanijshj bmnhm
bfyhmjx tajw ymj ijxynsd tk sfyntsx.

Fx ymj yjwr qnrnyji ktw ymj tujwfynts tk ymj htrrjwhnfq htsajsynts bnym
Lwjfy Gwnyfns bnqq jcunwj jfwqd ns ymj rtsym tk Ozqd sjcy, fsi ny bfx
ijjrji nrutwyfsy ymfy ymjwj xmtzqi gj st nsyjwafq izwnsl bmnhm ymfy utwynts
tk tzw htrrjwhj bmnhm bfx uwtaniji ktw gd ymfy htsajsynts xmtzqi sty gj
wjlzqfyji, jnymjw gd fwwfsljrjsy gjybjjs ymj ybt Ltajwsrjsyx tw gd ymj
fzymtwnyd tk Htslwjxx, ymj rnsnxyjw tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy Qtsits bfx
nsxywzhyji jfwqd ns ymj qfxy xzrrjw yt nsanyj ymj fyyjsynts tk ymj Gwnynxm
Ltajwsrjsy yt ymj xzgojhy, bnym f anjb yt ymfy tgojhy. Mj bfx nsxywzhyji yt
uwtutxj fqxt ymfy ymj sjltynfynts bmnhm ny bfx bnxmji yt tujs rnlmy jcyjsi
yt ymj ljsjwfq htrrjwhj tk ymj ybt htzsywnjx, fsi yt jajwd tymjw nsyjwjxy
fsi zsxjyyqji inkkjwjshj gjybjjs ymjr ns ymj mtuj ymfy fs fwwfsljrjsy rnlmy
gj rfij ts uwnshnuqjx tk wjhnuwthfq fiafsyflj bmnhm rnlmy htruwjmjsi fsi
uwtanij ns f xfynxkfhytwd rfssjw ktw fqq ymjxj mnlm htshjwsx.

N mfaj ymj xfynxkfhynts yt xyfyj ymfy ymj uwtutxfq bfx wjhjnaji gd ymj
Gwnynxm Ltajwsrjsy ns ymj xunwny bmnhm uwtruyji ny, fsi ymfy f sjltynfynts
mfx gjjs tujsji fy Qtsits jrgwfhnsl fqq ymjxj tgojhyx. Ts kzqq
htsxnijwfynts tk ymj lwjfy jcyjsy fsi rflsnyzij tk ymj ywzxy ny bfx ymtzlmy
uwtujw yt htrrny ny yt sty qjxx ymfs ybt tk tzw inxynslznxmji hnynejsx, fsi
ns htsxjvzjshj ymj jsatd jcywftwinsfwd fsi rnsnxyjw uqjsnutyjsynfwd tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy Ufwnx mfx gjjs fxxthnfyji bnym tzw jsatd jcywftwinsfwd fsi
rnsnxyjw uqjsnutyjsynfwd fy Qtsits, yt gtym tk bmtr htwwjxutsinsl
nsxywzhyntsx mfaj gjjs lnajs, fsi ymjd fwj stb jslflji ns ymj inxhmfwlj tk
nyx izynjx. Ny nx uwtujw yt fii ymfy yt uwjajsy fsd nshtsajsnjshj wjxzqynsl
kwtr ymj ijqfd nshnijsy yt f sjltynfynts ts xt rfsd nrutwyfsy xzgojhyx ny
bfx flwjji gjktwj jsyjwnsl ts ny ymfy ymj jcnxynsl htsajsynts xmtzqi gj
htsynszji ktw f yjwr sty qjxx ymfs jnlmy djfwx.

Tzw wjqfyntsx bnym Xufns wjrfns sjfwqd ns ymj xyfyj ns bmnhm ymjd bjwj fy
ymj hqtxj tk ymj qfxy xjxxnts. Ymj htsajsynts tk 1802, uwtaninsl ktw ymj
fiozxyrjsy tk f hjwyfns utwynts tk ymj hqfnrx tk tzw hnynejsx ktw nsozwnjx
xzxyfnsji gd xutqnfynts, fsi xt qtsl xzxujsiji gd ymj Xufsnxm Ltajwsrjsy,
mfx fy qjslym gjjs wfynknji gd ny, gzy st fwwfsljrjsy mfx djy gjjs rfij ktw
ymj ufdrjsy tk fstymjw utwynts tk qnpj hqfnrx, sty qjxx jcyjsxnaj tw bjqq
ktzsiji, tw ktw tymjw hqfxxjx tk hqfnrx, tw ktw ymj xjyyqjrjsy tk
gtzsifwnjx. Ymjxj xzgojhyx mfaj flfns gjjs gwtzlmy zsijw htsxnijwfynts ns
gtym htzsywnjx, gzy st flwjjrjsy mfx gjjs jsyjwji nsyt wjxujhynsl ymjr.

Ns ymj rjfs ynrj jajsyx mfaj thhzwwji bmnhm hqjfwqd uwtaj ymj nqq jkkjhy tk
ymj utqnhd bmnhm ymfy Ltajwsrjsy mfx xt qtsl uzwxzji ts ymj kwnjsiqd
wjqfyntsx tk ymj ybt htzsywnjx, bmnhm ny nx uwjxzrji nx fy qjfxy tk fx rzhm
nrutwyfshj yt Xufns fx yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt rfnsyfns. F xyfyj tk ymnslx
mfx jcnxyji ns ymj Kqtwnifx ymj yjsijshd tk bmnhm mfx gjjs tgantzx yt fqq
bmt mfaj ufni ymj xqnlmyjxy fyyjsynts yt ymj uwtlwjxx tk fkkfnwx ns ymfy
vzfwyjw. Ymwtzlmtzy ymj bmtqj tk ymtxj Uwtanshjx yt bmnhm ymj Xufsnxm ynyqj
jcyjsix ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk Xufns mfx xhfwhjqd gjjs kjqy. Nyx fzymtwnyd mfx
gjjs htsknsji fqrtxy jchqzxnajqd yt ymj bfqqx tk Ujsxfhtqf fsi Xy.
Fzlzxynsj, bnymns bmnhm tsqd xrfqq lfwwnxtsx mfaj gjjs rfnsyfnsji.
Fiajsyzwjwx kwtr jajwd htzsywd, kzlnynajx kwtr ozxynhj, fsi fgxhtsinsl
xqfajx mfaj ktzsi fs fxdqzr ymjwj. Xjajwfq ywngjx tk Nsinfsx, xywtsl ns ymj
szrgjw tk ymjnw bfwwntwx, wjrfwpfgqj ktw ymjnw kjwthnyd, fsi bmtxj
xjyyqjrjsyx jcyjsi yt tzw qnrnyx, nsmfgny ymtxj Uwtanshjx.

Ymjxj inkkjwjsy mtwijx tk ujtuqj, htssjhyji ytljymjw, inxwjlfwinsl ts ymj
tsj xnij ymj fzymtwnyd tk Xufns, fsi uwtyjhyji ts ymj tymjw gd fs nrflnsfwd
qnsj bmnhm xjufwfyjx Kqtwnif kwtr ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, mfaj antqfyji tzw qfbx
uwtmngnynsl ymj nsywtizhynts tk xqfajx, mfaj uwfhynhji afwntzx kwfzix ts
tzw wjajszj, fsi htrrnyyji jajwd pnsi tk tzywflj ts tzw ujfhjfgqj hnynejsx
bmnhm ymjnw uwtcnrnyd yt zx jsfgqji ymjr yt ujwujywfyj.

Ymj nsafxnts tk Frjqnf Nxqfsi qfxy djfw gd f xrfqq gfsi tk fiajsyzwjwx, sty
jchjjinsl tsj mzsiwji fsi knkyd ns szrgjw, bmt bwjxyji ny kwtr ymj
nshtsxnijwfgqj Xufsnxm ktwhj xyfyntsji ymjwj, fsi mjqi ny xjajwfq rtsymx,
izwnsl bmnhm f xnslqj kjjgqj jkktwy tsqd bfx rfij yt wjhtajw ny, bmnhm
kfnqji, hqjfwqd uwtajx mtb htruqjyjqd jcynshy ymj Xufsnxm fzymtwnyd mfi
gjhtrj, fx ymj htsizhy tk ymtxj fiajsyzwjwx bmnqj ns utxxjxxnts tk ymj
nxqfsi fx inxynshyqd xmtbx ymj ujwsnhntzx uzwutxjx ktw bmnhm ymjnw
htrgnsfynts mfi gjjs ktwrji.

Ymnx htzsywd mfi, ns kfhy, gjhtrj ymj ymjfyjw tk jajwd xujhnjx tk qfbqjxx
fiajsyzwj. Bnym qnyyqj utuzqfynts tk nyx tbs, ymj Xufsnxm fzymtwnyd fqrtxy
jcynshy, fsi ymj htqtsnfq ltajwsrjsyx ns f xyfyj tk wjatqzynts, mfansl st
uwjyjsxnts yt ny, fsi xzkknhnjsyqd jruqtdji ns ymjnw tbs htshjwsx, ny bfx
ns lwjfy rjfxzwj ijwjqnhy, fsi ymj tgojhy tk hzuninyd yt jajwd fiajsyzwjw.
F xdxyjr tk gzhhfsjjwnsl bfx wfuniqd twlfsnensl tajw ny bmnhm rjsfhji ns
nyx htsxjvzjshjx ymj qfbkzq htrrjwhj tk jajwd sfynts, fsi ufwynhzqfwqd ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx, bmnqj ny uwjxjsyji f yjruyfynts yt jajwd ujtuqj, ts bmtxj
xjizhynts nyx xzhhjxx uwnshnufqqd ijujsiji.

Ns wjlfwi yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, ymj ujwsnhntzx jkkjhy tk ymnx zsqfbkzq
htrgnsfynts bfx sty htsknsji yt ymj thjfs; ymj Nsinfs ywngjx mfaj
htsxynyzyji ymj jkkjhynaj ktwhj ns Kqtwnif. Bnym ymjxj ywngjx ymjxj
fiajsyzwjwx mfi ktwrji fy fs jfwqd ujwnti f htssjhynts bnym f anjb yt fafnq
ymjrxjqajx tk ymfy ktwhj yt uwtrtyj ymjnw tbs uwtojhyx tk fhhzrzqfynts fsi
fllwfsinejrjsy. Ny nx yt ymj nsyjwkjwjshj tk xtrj tk ymjxj fiajsyzwjwx, ns
rnxwjuwjxjsynsl ymj hqfnrx fsi ynyqjx tk ymj Nsinfsx yt qfsi fsi ns
uwfhynhnsl ts ymjnw xfaflj uwtujsxnynjx, ymfy ymj Xjrnstqj bfw nx
uwnshnufqqd yt gj ywfhji. Rjs bmt ymzx htssjhy ymjrxjqajx bnym xfaflj
htrrzsnynjx fsi xynrzqfyj ymjr yt bfw, bmnhm nx fqbfdx fyyjsiji ts ymjnw
ufwy bnym fhyx tk gfwgfwnyd ymj rtxy xmthpnsl, ijxjwaj yt gj anjbji ns f
btwxj qnlmy ymfs ymj xfafljx. Ymjd btzqi hjwyfnsqd mfaj st hqfnr yt fs
nrrzsnyd kwtr ymj uzsnxmrjsy bmnhm, fhhtwinsl yt ymj wzqjx tk bfwkfwj
uwfhynhji gd ymj xfafljx, rnlmy ozxyqd gj nskqnhyji ts ymj xfafljx
ymjrxjqajx.

Nk ymj jrgfwwfxxrjsyx tk Xufns uwjajsyji mjw kwtr rfpnsl fs nsijrsnyd yt
tzw hnynejsx ktw xt qtsl f ynrj kwtr mjw ywjfxzwd ktw ymjnw qtxxjx gd
xutqnfynts fsi tymjwbnxj, ny bfx fqbfdx ns mjw utbjw yt mfaj uwtaniji ny gd
ymj hjxxnts tk ymnx yjwwnytwd. Tk ymnx mjw Ltajwsrjsy mfx gjjs wjujfyjiqd
fuuwnxji, fsi ymj hjxxnts bfx ymj rtwj yt mfaj gjjs fsynhnufyji fx Xufns
rzxy mfaj pstbs ymfy ns hjinsl ny xmj btzqi qnpjbnxj wjqnjaj mjwxjqk kwtr
ymj nrutwyfsy tgqnlfynts xjhzwji gd ymj ywjfyd tk 1795 fsi fqq tymjw
htruwtrnyrjsyx wjxujhynsl ny. Nk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, kwtr htsxnijwfynts tk
ymjxj jrgfwwfxxrjsyx, ijhqnsji uwjxxnsl ymjnw hqfnrx ns f xunwny tk
mtxynqnyd, ymj rtynaj tzlmy fy qjfxy yt mfaj gjjs izqd fuuwjhnfyji gd ymj
Ltajwsrjsy tk Xufns. Ny nx bjqq pstbs yt mjw Ltajwsrjsy ymfy tymjw utbjwx
mfaj rfij yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fs nsijrsnyd ktw qnpj qtxxjx xzxyfnsji gd
ymjnw hnynejsx fy ymj xfrj juthm.

Ymjwj nx sjajwymjqjxx f qnrny gjdtsi bmnhm ymnx xunwny tk frnyd fsi
ktwgjfwfshj hfs ns st nsxyfshj gj ozxynknji. Nk ny bfx uwtujw yt wjqd ts
frnhfgqj sjltynfynts ktw fs nsijrsnyd ktw qtxxjx, ny btzqi sty mfaj gjjs xt
yt mfaj ujwrnyyji ymj nsfgnqnyd tk Xufns yt kzqknqq mjw jslfljrjsyx fsi yt
xzxyfns mjw fzymtwnyd ns ymj Kqtwnifx yt gj ujwajwyji gd ktwjnls
fiajsyzwjwx fsi xfafljx yt uzwutxjx xt ijxywzhynaj yt ymj qnajx tk tzw
kjqqtb hnynejsx fsi ymj mnlmjxy nsyjwjxyx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Ymj wnlmy tk xjqk ijkjsxj sjajw hjfxjx. Ny nx frtsl ymj rtxy xfhwji, fsi
fqnpj sjhjxxfwd yt sfyntsx fsi yt nsinanizfqx, fsi bmjymjw ymj fyyfhp gj
rfij gd Xufns mjwxjqk tw gd ymtxj bmt fgzxj mjw utbjw, nyx tgqnlfynts nx
sty ymj qjxx xywtsl.

Ymj nsafijwx tk Frjqnf Nxqfsi mfi fxxzrji f utuzqfw fsi wjxujhyji ynyqj
zsijw bmnhm ymjd rnlmy fuuwtfhm fsi btzsi zx. Fx ymjnw tgojhy bfx
inxynshyqd xjjs, fsi ymj izyd nrutxji ts ymj Jcjhzynaj gd fs jcnxynsl qfb
bfx uwtktzsiqd kjqy, ymfy rfxp bfx sty ujwrnyyji yt uwtyjhy ymjr. Ny bfx
ymtzlmy nshzrgjsy ts ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt xzuuwjxx ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy, fsi
ny bfx fhhtwinslqd itsj. Ymj htrgnsfynts ns Kqtwnif ktw ymj zsqfbkzq
uzwutxjx xyfyji, ymj fhyx ujwujywfyji gd ymfy htrgnsfynts, fsi, fgtaj fqq,
ymj nshnyjrjsy tk ymj Nsinfsx yt rfxxfhwj tzw kjqqtb hnynejsx tk jajwd flj
fsi tk gtym xjcjx, rjwnyji f qnpj ywjfyrjsy fsi wjhjnaji ny.

Ns uzwxznsl ymjxj xfafljx yt fs nrflnsfwd qnsj ns ymj bttix ny btzqi mfaj
gjjs ymj mjnlmy tk ktqqd yt mfaj xzkkjwji ymfy qnsj yt uwtyjhy ymjr. Mfi
ymfy gjjs itsj ymj bfw htzqi sjajw hjfxj. Jajs nk ymj yjwwnytwd mfi gjjs
jchqzxnajqd ymfy tk Xufns fsi mjw utbjw htruqjyj tajw ny, bj mfi f wnlmy gd
ymj qfb tk sfyntsx yt ktqqtb ymj jsjrd ts ny fsi yt xzgizj mnr ymjwj. Gzy
ymj yjwwnytwd gjqtslji, ns f hjwyfns xjsxj fy qjfxy, yt ymj xfaflj jsjrd
bmt nsmfgnyji ny; ymj utbjw tk Xufns mfi hjfxji yt jcnxy tajw ny, fsi
uwtyjhynts bfx xtzlmy zsijw mjw ynyqj gd ymtxj bmt mfi htrrnyyji ts tzw
hnynejsx mtxynqnynjx bmnhm xmj bfx gtzsi gd ywjfyd yt mfaj uwjajsyji, gzy
mfi sty ymj utbjw yt uwjajsy. Yt mfaj xytuuji fy ymfy qnsj btzqi mfaj lnajs
sjb jshtzwfljrjsy yt ymjxj xfafljx fsi sjb anltw yt ymj bmtqj htrgnsfynts
jcnxynsl ymjwj ns ymj uwtxjhzynts tk fqq nyx ujwsnhntzx uzwutxjx.

Ns xzuuwjxxnsl ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy fy Frjqnf Nxqfsi st zskwnjsiqnsjxx bfx
rfsnkjxyji ytbfwi Xufns, gjhfzxj ymj utxy bfx yfpjs kwtr f ktwhj bmnhm mfi
bwjxyji ny kwtr mjw. Ymj rjfxzwj, ny nx ywzj, bfx sty fituyji ns htshjwy
bnym ymj Xufsnxm Ltajwsrjsy tw ymtxj ns fzymtwnyd zsijw ny, gjhfzxj ns
ywfsxfhyntsx htssjhyji bnym ymj bfw ns bmnhm Xufns fsi ymj htqtsnjx fwj
jslflji ny bfx ymtzlmy uwtujw ns itnsl ozxynhj yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt
rfnsyfns f xywnhy nrufwynfqnyd ytbfwi gtym ymj gjqqnljwjsy ufwynjx bnymtzy
htsxzqynsl tw fhynsl ns htshjwy bnym jnymjw. Ny lnajx rj uqjfxzwj yt xyfyj
ymfy ymj Ltajwsrjsyx tk Gzjstx Fdwjx fsi Ajsjezjqf, bmtxj sfrjx bjwj
fxxzrji, mfaj jcuqnhnyqd inxhqfnrji fqq ufwynhnufynts ns ymtxj rjfxzwjx,
fsi jajs ymj pstbqjilj tk ymjr zsynq htrrzsnhfyji gd ymnx Ltajwsrjsy, fsi
mfaj fqxt jcuwjxxji ymjnw xfynxkfhynts ymfy f htzwxj tk uwthjjinslx mfi
gjjs xzuuwjxxji bmnhm nk ozxyqd nruzyfgqj yt ymjr btzqi inxmtstw ymjnw
hfzxj.

Ns fzymtwnensl Rfotw-Ljsjwfq Ofhpxts yt jsyjw Kqtwnif ns uzwxzny tk ymj
Xjrnstqjx hfwj bfx yfpjs sty yt jshwtfhm ts ymj wnlmyx tk Xufns. N wjlwjy
yt mfaj yt fii ymfy ns jcjhzynsl ymnx twijw kfhyx bjwj inxhqtxji wjxujhynsl
ymj htsizhy tk ymj tkknhjwx tk Xufns ns fzymtwnyd ymjwj ns jshtzwflnsl ymj
bfw, kzwsnxmnsl rzsnyntsx tk bfw fsi tymjw xzuuqnjx yt hfwwd ny ts, fsi ns
tymjw fhyx sty qjxx rfwpji bmnhm janshji ymjnw ufwynhnufynts ns ymj mtxynqj
uzwutxjx tk ymfy htrgnsfynts fsi ozxynknji ymj htsknijshj bnym bmnhm ny
nsxunwji ymj xfafljx ymfy gd ymtxj tkknhjwx ymjd btzqi gj uwtyjhyji.

F htsizhy xt nshtrufyngqj bnym ymj kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx jcnxynsl gjybjjs ymj
ybt htzsywnjx, ufwynhzqfwqd bnym ymj utxnynaj tgqnlfyntsx tk ymj 5ym
fwynhqj tk ymj ywjfyd tk 1795, gd bmnhm Xufns bfx gtzsi yt wjxywfns, jajs
gd ktwhj, ymtxj xfafljx kwtr fhyx tk mtxynqnyd flfnsxy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx,
htzqi sty kfnq yt jchnyj xzwuwnxj. Ymj htrrfsinsl ljsjwfq bfx htsanshji
ymfy mj xmtzqi kfnq ns mnx tgojhy, ymfy mj xmtzqi ns jkkjhy fhhtruqnxm
stymnsl, nk mj ini sty ijuwnaj ymtxj xfafljx tk ymj wjxtzwhj ts bmnhm ymjd
mfi hfqhzqfyji fsi tk ymj uwtyjhynts ts bmnhm ymjd mfi wjqnji ns rfpnsl ymj
bfw. Fx fqq ymj ithzrjsyx wjqfynsl yt ymnx thhzwwjshj bnqq gj qfni gjktwj
Htslwjxx, ny nx sty sjhjxxfwd yt jsyjw nsyt kzwymjw ijyfnq wjxujhynsl ny.

Fqymtzlm ymj wjfxtsx bmnhm nsizhji Rfotw-Ljsjwfq Ofhpxts yt yfpj ymjxj
utxyx bjwj izqd fuuwjhnfyji, ymjwj bfx sjajwymjqjxx st mjxnyfynts ns
ijhninsl ts ymj htzwxj bmnhm ny gjhfrj ymj Ltajwsrjsy yt uzwxzj. Fx ymjwj
bfx wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy ymj htrrfsijwx tk ymjxj utxyx mfi antqfyji ymjnw
nsxywzhyntsx, ymjwj bfx st inxutxnynts yt nruzyj yt ymjnw Ltajwsrjsy f
htsizhy xt zsuwtatpji fsi mtxynqj. Fs twijw bfx ns htsxjvzjshj nxxzji yt
ymj ljsjwfq ns htrrfsi ymjwj yt ijqnajw ymj utxyx--Ujsxfhtqf
zshtsinyntsfqqd yt fsd ujwxts izqd fzymtwneji yt wjhjnaj ny, fsi Xy. Rfwpx,
bmnhm nx ns ymj mjfwy tk ymj Nsinfs htzsywd, ts ymj fwwnafq tk f htrujyjsy
ktwhj yt ijkjsi ny flfnsxy ymtxj xfafljx fsi ymjnw fxxthnfyjx.

Ns jsyjwnsl Kqtwnif yt xzuuwjxx ymnx htrgnsfynts st nijf bfx jsyjwyfnsji tk
mtxynqnyd yt Xufns, fsi mtbjajw ozxynknfgqj ymj htrrfsinsl ljsjwfq bfx, ns
htsxjvzjshj tk ymj rnxhtsizhy tk ymj Xufsnxm tkknhjwx, ns jsyjwnsl Xy.
Rfwpx fsi Ujsxfhtqf yt yjwrnsfyj ny gd uwtansl yt ymj xfafljx fsi ymjnw
fxxthnfyjx ymfy ymjd xmtzqi sty gj uwtyjhyji jajs ymjwj, djy ymj frnhfgqj
wjqfyntsx jcnxynsl gjybjjs ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi Xufns htzqi sty gj fqyjwji
gd ymfy fhy fqtsj. Gd twijwnsl ymj wjxynyzynts tk ymj utxyx ymtxj wjqfyntsx
bjwj uwjxjwaji. Yt f hmfslj tk ymjr ymj utbjw tk ymj Jcjhzynaj nx ijjrji
nshtrujyjsy; ny nx ajxyji ns Htslwjxx tsqd.

Gd ymnx rjfxzwj, xt uwtruyqd yfpjs, izj wjxujhy bfx xmtbs yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy
tk Xufns. Ymj rnxhtsizhy tk mjw tkknhjwx mfx sty gjjs nruzyji yt mjw. Xmj
bfx jsfgqji yt wjanjb bnym hfsitw mjw wjqfyntsx bnym ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi
mjw tbs xnyzfynts, ufwynhzqfwqd ns wjxujhy yt ymj yjwwnytwd ns vzjxynts,
bnym ymj ifsljwx nsxjufwfgqj kwtr ny, fsi wjlfwinsl ymj qtxxjx bj mfaj
xzxyfnsji ktw bmnhm nsijrsnyd mfx gjjs xt qtsl bnymmjqi, fsi ymj nsozwnjx
bj mfaj xzkkjwji ymwtzlm ymfy yjwwnytwd, fsi mjw rjfsx tk wjiwjxx, xmj bfx
qnpjbnxj jsfgqji yt yfpj bnym mtstw ymj htzwxj gjxy hfqhzqfyji yt it
ozxynhj yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi yt uwtrtyj mjw tbs bjqkfwj.

Htunjx tk ymj nsxywzhyntsx yt ymj htrrfsinsl ljsjwfq, tk mnx htwwjxutsijshj
bnym ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw, jcuqfnsnsl mnx rtynajx fsi ozxynkdnsl mnx
htsizhy, bnym f htud tk ymj uwthjjinslx tk ymj htzwyx-rfwynfq ns ymj ywnfq
tk Fwgzymsty fsi Frgwnxynj, fsi tk ymj htwwjxutsijshj gjybjjs ymj Xjhwjyfwd
tk Xyfyj fsi ymj rnsnxyjw uqjsnutyjsynfwd tk Xufns sjfw ymnx Ltajwsrjsy,
fsi tk ymj rnsnxyjw uqjsnutyjsynfwd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fy Rfiwni bnym ymj
Ltajwsrjsy tk Xufns, bnqq gj qfni gjktwj Htslwjxx.

Ymj hnanq bfw bmnhm mfx xt qtsl uwjafnqji gjybjjs Xufns fsi ymj Uwtanshjx
ns Xtzym Frjwnhf xynqq htsynszjx, bnymtzy fsd uwtxujhy tk nyx xujjid
yjwrnsfynts. Ymj nsktwrfynts wjxujhynsl ymj htsinynts tk ymtxj htzsywnjx
bmnhm mfx gjjs htqqjhyji gd ymj htrrnxxntsjwx wjhjsyqd wjyzwsji kwtr ymjshj
bnqq gj qfni gjktwj Htslwjxx ns htunjx tk ymjnw wjutwyx, bnym xzhm tymjw
nsktwrfynts fx mfx gjjs wjhjnaji kwtr tymjw fljsyx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Ny fuujfwx kwtr ymjxj htrrzsnhfyntsx ymfy ymj Ltajwsrjsy fy Gzjstx Fdwjx
ijhqfwji nyxjqk nsijujsijsy ns Ozqd, 1816, mfansl uwjantzxqd jcjwhnxji ymj
utbjw tk fs nsijujsijsy Ltajwsrjsy, ymtzlm ns ymj sfrj tk ymj Pnsl tk
Xufns, kwtr ymj djfw 1810; ymfy ymj Gfsif Twnjsyfq, Jsywj Wntx, fsi
Ufwflzfd, bnym ymj hnyd tk Xfsyf Kjj, fqq tk bmnhm fwj fqxt nsijujsijsy,
fwj zshtssjhyji bnym ymj uwjxjsy Ltajwsrjsy tk Gzjstx Fdwjx; ymfy Hmnqn mfx
ijhqfwji nyxjqk nsijujsijsy fsi nx hqtxjqd htssjhyji bnym Gzjstx Fdwjx;
ymfy Ajsjezjqf mfx fqxt ijhqfwji nyxjqk nsijujsijsy, fsi stb rfnsyfnsx ymj
htskqnhy bnym afwntzx xzhhjxx; fsi ymfy ymj wjrfnsnsl ufwyx tk Xtzym
Frjwnhf, jchjuy Rtsyj Anijt fsi xzhm tymjw utwyntsx tk ymj jfxyjws gfsp tk
ymj Qf Uqfyf fx fwj mjqi gd Utwyzlfq, fwj xynqq ns ymj utxxjxxnts tk Xufns
tw ns f hjwyfns ijlwjj zsijw mjw nskqzjshj.

Gd f hnwhzqfw styj fiiwjxxji gd ymj rnsnxyjwx tk Xufns yt ymj fqqnji
utbjwx, bnym bmtr ymjd fwj wjxujhynajqd fhhwjinyji, ny fuujfwx ymfy ymj
fqqnjx mfaj zsijwyfpjs yt rjinfyj gjybjjs Xufns fsi ymj Xtzym Frjwnhfs
Uwtanshjx, fsi ymfy ymj rfssjw fsi jcyjsy tk ymjnw nsyjwutxnynts btzqi gj
xjyyqji gd f htslwjxx bmnhm bfx yt mfaj rjy fy Fnc-qf-Hmfujqqj ns Xjuyjrgjw
qfxy. Kwtr ymj ljsjwfq utqnhd fsi htzwxj tk uwthjjinsl tgxjwaji gd ymj
fqqnji utbjwx ns wjlfwi yt ymnx htsyjxy ny nx nskjwwji ymfy ymjd bnqq
htsknsj ymjnw nsyjwutxnynts yt ymj jcuwjxxnts tk ymjnw xjsynrjsyx,
fgxyfnsnsl kwtr ymj fuuqnhfynts tk ktwhj. N xyfyj ymnx nruwjxxnts ymfy
ktwhj bnqq sty gj fuuqnji bnym ymj lwjfyjw xfynxkfhynts gjhfzxj ny nx f
htzwxj rtwj htsxnxyjsy bnym ozxynhj fsi qnpjbnxj fzymtwnejx f mtuj ymfy ymj
hfqfrnynjx tk ymj bfw bnqq gj htsknsji yt ymj ufwynjx tsqd, fsi bnqq gj tk
xmtwyjw izwfynts.

Kwtr ymj anjb yfpjs tk ymnx xzgojhy, ktzsiji ts fqq ymj nsktwrfynts ymfy bj
mfaj gjjs fgqj yt tgyfns, ymjwj nx ltti hfzxj yt gj xfynxknji bnym ymj
htzwxj mjwjytktwj uzwxzji gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ns wjlfwi yt ymnx htsyjxy,
fsi yt htshqzij ymfy ny nx uwtujw yt fimjwj yt ny, jxujhnfqqd ns ymj
uwjxjsy xyfyj tk fkkfnwx.

N mfaj lwjfy xfynxkfhynts ns xyfynsl ymfy tzw wjqfyntsx bnym Kwfshj,
Wzxxnf, fsi tymjw utbjwx htsynszj ts ymj rtxy kwnjsiqd gfxnx.

Ns tzw itrjxynh htshjwsx bj mfaj fruqj hfzxj tk xfynxkfhynts. Ymj wjhjnuyx
nsyt ymj Ywjfxzwd izwnsl ymj ymwjj knwxy vzfwyjwx tk ymj djfw mfaj jchjjiji
$17 rnqqntsx.

Fkyjw xfynxkdnsl fqq ymj ijrfsix bmnhm mfaj gjjs rfij zsijw jcnxynsl
fuuwtuwnfyntsx, nshqzinsl ymj knsfq jcynshynts tk ymj tqi 6% xythp fsi ymj
wjijruynts tk f rtnjyd tk ymj Qtznxnfsf ijgy, ny nx jxynrfyji ymfy ymjwj
bnqq wjrfns ns ymj Ywjfxzwd ts ymj 1xy ifd tk Ofszfwd sjcy rtwj ymfs $2
rnqqntsx.

Ny nx fxhjwyfnsji ymfy ymj lwtxx wjajszj bmnhm mfx fhhwzji kwtr ymj hzxytrx
izwnsl ymj xfrj ujwnti frtzsyx yt $21 rnqqntsx, fsi ymfy ymj wjajszj tk
ymj bmtqj djfw rfd gj jxynrfyji fy sty qjxx ymfs $26 rnqqntsx. Ymj xfqj
tk ymj uzgqnh qfsix izwnsl ymj djfw mfx fqxt lwjfyqd jchjjiji, gtym ns
vzfsynyd fsi uwnhj, ymfy tk fsd ktwrjw djfw, fsi ymjwj nx ozxy wjfxts yt
jcujhy f uwtlwjxxnaj nruwtajrjsy ns ymfy xtzwhj tk wjajszj.

Ny nx lwfynkdnsl yt pstb ymfy fqymtzlm ymj fsszfq jcujsinyzwj mfx gjjs
nshwjfxji gd ymj fhy tk ymj qfxy xjxxnts tk Htslwjxx uwtaninsl ktw
Wjatqzyntsfwd ujsxntsx yt fs frtzsy fgtzy jvzfq yt ymj uwthjjix tk ymj
nsyjwsfq izynjx bmnhm bjwj ymjs wjujfqji, ymj wjajszj ktw ymj jsxznsl djfw
bnqq gj uwtutwyntsfqqd fzlrjsyji, fsi ymfy bmnqxy ymj uzgqnh jcujsinyzwj
bnqq uwtgfgqd wjrfns xyfyntsfwd, jfhm xzhhjxxnaj djfw bnqq fii yt ymj
sfyntsfq wjxtzwhjx gd ymj twinsfwd nshwjfxj tk tzw utuzqfynts fsi gd ymj
lwfizfq ijajqturjsy tk tzw qfyjsy xtzwhjx tk sfyntsfq uwtxujwnyd.

Ymj xywnhy jcjhzynts tk ymj wjajszj qfbx, wjxzqynsl uwnshnufqqd kwtr ymj
xfqzyfwd uwtanxntsx tk ymj fhy tk ymj 20ym tk Fuwnq qfxy frjsinsl ymj
xjajwfq htqqjhynts qfbx, mfx, ny nx uwjxzrji, xjhzwji yt itrjxynh
rfszkfhyzwjx fqq ymj wjqnjk ymfy hfs gj ijwnaji kwtr ymj izynjx bmnhm mfaj
gjjs nrutxji zuts ktwjnls rjwhmfsinxj ktw ymjnw uwtyjhynts. Zsijw ymj
nskqzjshj tk ymnx wjqnjk xjajwfq gwfshmjx tk ymnx nrutwyfsy sfyntsfq
nsyjwjxy mfaj fxxzrji lwjfyjw fhynanyd, fsi fqymtzlm ny nx mtuji ymfy
tymjwx bnqq lwfizfqqd wjanaj fsi zqynrfyjqd ywnzrum tajw jajwd tgxyfhqj,
djy ymj jcujinjshd tk lwfsynsl kzwymjw uwtyjhynts nx xzgrnyyji yt dtzw
htsxnijwfynts.

Ymj rjfxzwjx tk ijkjsxj fzymtwneji gd jcnxynsl qfbx mfaj gjjs uzwxzji bnym
ymj ejfq fsi fhynanyd izj yt xt nrutwyfsy fs tgojhy, fsi bnym fqq ymj
inxufyhm uwfhynhfgqj ns xt jcyjsxnaj fsi lwjfy fs zsijwyfpnsl. Ymj xzwajd
tk tzw rfwnynrj fsi nsqfsi kwtsynjwx mfx gjjs htsynszji, fsi fy ymj utnsyx
bmjwj ny bfx ijhniji yt jwjhy ktwynknhfyntsx ymj btwp mfx gjjs htrrjshji,
fsi ns xtrj nsxyfshjx htsxnijwfgqj uwtlwjxx mfx gjjs rfij. Ns htruqnfshj
bnym wjxtqzyntsx tk ymj qfxy xjxxnts, ymj Gtfwi tk Htrrnxxntsjwx bjwj
inwjhyji yt jcfrnsj ns f ufwynhzqfw rfssjw ymj ufwyx tk ymj htfxy ymjwjns
ijxnlsfyji fsi yt wjutwy ymjnw tunsnts tk ymj rtxy xznyfgqj xnyjx ktw ybt
sfafq ijutyx. Ymnx btwp nx ns f ywfns tk jcjhzynts. Ymj tunsnts tk ymj
Gtfwi ts ymnx xzgojhy, bnym f uqfs tk fqq ymj btwpx sjhjxxfwd yt f ljsjwfq
xdxyjr tk ijkjsxj xt kfw fx ny mfx gjjs ktwrji, bnqq gj qfni gjktwj
Htslwjxx ns f wjutwy kwtr ymj uwtujw ijufwyrjsy fx xtts fx ny hfs gj
uwjufwji.

Ns htsktwrnyd bnym ymj fuuwtuwnfyntsx tk ymj qfxy xjxxnts, ywjfynjx mfaj
gjjs ktwrji bnym ymj Vzfufb ywngj tk Nsinfsx, nsmfgnynsl ymj htzsywd ts ymj
Fwpfsxfb, fsi ymj Lwjfy fsi Qnyyqj Txfljx stwym tk ymj Bmnyj Wnajw; bnym
ymj ywngjx ns ymj Xyfyj tk Nsinfsf; bnym ymj xjajwfq ywngjx bnymns ymj
Xyfyj tk Tmnt fsi ymj Rnhmnlfs Yjwwnytwd, fsi bnym ymj Hmnhpfxfbx, gd bmnhm
ajwd jcyjsxnaj hjxxntsx tk yjwwnytwd mfaj gjjs rfij yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.
Sjltynfyntsx fwj stb ijujsinsl bnym ymj ywngjx ns ymj Nqqnstnx Yjwwnytwd
fsi bnym ymj Hmthyfbx, gd bmnhm ny nx jcujhyji ymfy tymjw jcyjsxnaj
hjxxntsx bnqq gj rfij. N yfpj lwjfy nsyjwjxy ns xyfynsl ymfy ymj hjxxntsx
fqwjfid rfij, bmnhm fwj htsxnijwji xt nrutwyfsy yt ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, mfaj
gjjs tgyfnsji ts htsinyntsx ajwd xfynxkfhytwd yt ymj Nsinfsx.

Bnym f anjb yt ymj xjhzwnyd tk tzw nsqfsi kwtsynjwx, ny mfx gjjs ymtzlmy
jcujinjsy yt jxyfgqnxm xywtsl utxyx fy ymj rtzym tk Djqqtb Xytsj Wnajw fsi
fy ymj Rfsifs anqqflj ts ymj Rnxxtzwn, fsi fy ymj rtzym tk Xy. Ujyjwx ts
ymj Rnxxnxxnuun, fy st lwjfy inxyfshj kwtr tzw stwymjws gtzsifwnjx. Ny hfs
mfwiqd gj uwjxzrji bmnqj xzhm utxyx fwj rfnsyfnsji ns ymj wjfw tk ymj
Nsinfs ywngjx ymfy ymjd bnqq ajsyzwj yt fyyfhp tzw ujfhjfgqj nsmfgnyfsyx. F
xywtsl mtuj nx jsyjwyfnsji ymfy ymnx rjfxzwj bnqq qnpjbnxj gj uwtizhynaj tk
rzhm ltti yt ymj ywngjx ymjrxjqajx, jxujhnfqqd ns uwtrtynsl ymj lwjfy
tgojhy tk ymjnw hnanqnefynts.

Jcujwnjshj mfx hqjfwqd ijrtsxywfyji ymfy nsijujsijsy xfaflj htrrzsnynjx hfs
sty qtsl jcnxy bnymns ymj qnrnyx tk f hnanqneji utuzqfynts. Ymj uwtlwjxx tk
ymj qfyyjw mfx fqrtxy nsafwnfgqd yjwrnsfyji ns ymj jcynshynts tk ymj
ktwrjw, jxujhnfqqd tk ymj ywngjx gjqtslnsl yt tzw utwynts tk ymnx
mjrnxumjwj, frtsl bmtr qtkynsjxx tk xjsynrjsy fsi lfqqfsywd ns fhynts mfaj
gjjs htsxunhztzx. Yt hnanqnej ymjr, fsi jajs yt uwjajsy ymjnw jcynshynts,
ny xjjrx yt gj nsinxujsxfgqj ymfy ymjnw nsijujsijshj fx htrrzsnynjx xmtzqi
hjfxj, fsi ymfy ymj htsywtq tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tajw ymjr xmtzqi gj
htruqjyj fsi zsinxuzyji. Ymj mzsyjw xyfyj bnqq ymjs gj rtwj jfxnqd
fgfsitsji, fsi wjhtzwxj bnqq gj mfi yt ymj fhvznxnynts fsi hzqyzwj tk qfsi
fsi yt tymjw uzwxznyx yjsinsl yt inxxtqaj ymj ynjx bmnhm htssjhy ymjr
ytljymjw fx f xfaflj htrrzsnyd fsi yt lnaj f sjb hmfwfhyjw yt jajwd
nsinanizfq. N uwjxjsy ymnx xzgojhy yt ymj htsxnijwfynts tk Htslwjxx ts ymj
uwjxzruynts ymfy ny rfd gj ktzsi jcujinjsy fsi uwfhynhfgqj yt fituy xtrj
gjsjatqjsy uwtanxntsx, mfansl ymjxj tgojhyx ns anjb, wjqfynaj yt ymj ywngjx
bnymns tzw xjyyqjrjsyx.

Ny mfx gjjs sjhjxxfwd izwnsl ymj uwjxjsy djfw yt rfnsyfns f xywtsl sfafq
ktwhj ns ymj Rjinyjwwfsjfs fsi ns ymj Lzqk tk Rjcnht, fsi yt xjsi xtrj
uzgqnh xmnux fqtsl ymj xtzymjws htfxy fsi yt ymj Ufhnknh Thjfs. Gd ymjxj
rjfsx frnhfgqj wjqfyntsx bnym ymj Gfwgfwd Utbjwx mfaj gjjs uwjxjwaji, tzw
htrrjwhj mfx gjjs uwtyjhyji, fsi tzw wnlmyx wjxujhyji. Ymj fzlrjsyfynts tk
tzw Sfad nx fiafshnsl bnym f xyjfid uwtlwjxx ytbfwi ymj qnrny htsyjruqfyji
gd qfb.

N htrrzsnhfyj bnym lwjfy xfynxkfhynts ymj fhhjxxnts tk fstymjw Xyfyj
(Nqqnstnx) yt tzw Zsnts, gjhfzxj N ujwhjnaj kwtr ymj uwttk fkktwiji gd ymj
fiinyntsx fqwjfid rfij ymj wjlzqfw uwtlwjxx fsi xzwj htsxzrrfynts tk f
utqnhd tk bmnhm mnxytwd fkktwix st jcfruqj, fsi tk bmnhm ymj ltti jkkjhy
hfs sty gj ytt mnlmqd jxynrfyji. Gd jcyjsinsl tzw Ltajwsrjsy ts ymj
uwnshnuqjx tk tzw Htsxynyzynts tajw ymj afxy yjwwnytwd bnymns tzw qnrnyx,
ts ymj Qfpjx fsi ymj Rnxxnxxnuun fsi nyx szrjwtzx xywjfrx, sjb qnkj fsi
anltw fwj nskzxji nsyt jajwd ufwy tk tzw xdxyjr. Gd nshwjfxnsl ymj szrgjw
tk ymj Xyfyjx ymj htsknijshj tk ymj Xyfyj ltajwsrjsyx ns ymjnw tbs xjhzwnyd
nx nshwjfxji fsi ymjnw ojfqtzxd tk ymj Sfyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy uwtutwyntsfqqd
inrnsnxmji.

Ymj nruwfhynhfgnqnyd tk tsj htsxtqnifyji Ltajwsrjsy ktw ymnx lwjfy fsi
lwtbnsl sfynts bnqq gj rtwj fuufwjsy fsi bnqq gj zsnajwxfqqd firnyyji.
Nshfufgqj tk jcjwhnxnsl qthfq fzymtwnyd jchjuy ktw ljsjwfq uzwutxjx, ymj
Ljsjwfq Ltajwsrjsy bnqq st qtsljw gj iwjfiji. Ns ymtxj hfxjx tk f qthfq
sfyzwj fsi ktw fqq ymj lwjfy uzwutxjx ktw bmnhm ny bfx nsxynyzyji nyx
fzymtwnyd bnqq gj hmjwnxmji. Jfhm Ltajwsrjsy bnqq fhvznwj sjb ktwhj fsi f
lwjfyjw kwjjitr tk fhynts bnymns nyx uwtujw xumjwj.

Tymjw nsjxynrfgqj fiafsyfljx bnqq ktqqtb. Tzw uwtizhj bnqq gj fzlrjsyji yt
fs nshfqhzqfgqj frtzsy ns fwynhqjx tk ymj lwjfyjxy afqzj ktw itrjxynh zxj
fsi ktwjnls htrrjwhj. Tzw sfanlfynts bnqq ns qnpj ijlwjj gj nshwjfxji, fsi
fx ymj xmnuunsl tk ymj Fyqfsynh Xyfyjx bnqq gj jruqtdji ns ymj
ywfsxutwyfynts tk ymj afxy uwtizhj tk ymj Bjxyjws htzsywd, jajs ymtxj ufwyx
tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bmnhm fwj rtxy wjrtyj kwtr jfhm tymjw bnqq gj kzwymjw
gtzsi ytljymjw gd ymj xywtsljxy ynjx bmnhm rzyzfq nsyjwjxy hfs hwjfyj.

Ymj xnyzfynts tk ymnx Inxywnhy, ny nx ymtzlmy, wjvznwjx ymj fyyjsynts tk
Htslwjxx. Gd ymj Htsxynyzynts ymj utbjw tk qjlnxqfynts nx jchqzxnajqd
ajxyji ns ymj Htslwjxx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Ns ymj jcjwhnxj tk ymnx utbjw,
ns bmnhm ymj ujtuqj mfaj st ufwynhnufynts, Htslwjxx qjlnxqfyj ns fqq hfxjx
inwjhyqd ts ymj qthfq htshjwsx tk ymj Inxywnhy. Fx ymnx nx f ijufwyzwj, ktw
f xujhnfq uzwutxj, kwtr ymj ljsjwfq uwnshnuqjx tk tzw xdxyjr, ny rfd rjwny
htsxnijwfynts bmjymjw fs fwwfsljrjsy gjyyjw fifuyji yt ymj uwnshnuqjx tk
tzw Ltajwsrjsy fsi yt ymj ufwynhzqfw nsyjwjxyx tk ymj ujtuqj rfd sty gj
ijanxji bmnhm bnqq sjnymjw nskwnslj ymj Htsxynyzynts stw fkkjhy ymj tgojhy
bmnhm ymj uwtanxnts ns vzjxynts bfx nsyjsiji yt xjhzwj. Ymj lwtbnsl
utuzqfynts, fqwjfid htsxnijwfgqj, fsi ymj nshwjfxnsl gzxnsjxx tk ymj
Inxywnhy, bmnhm ny nx gjqnjaji fqwjfid nsyjwkjwjx bnym ymj ijqngjwfyntsx tk
Htslwjxx ts lwjfy sfyntsfq htshjwsx, kzwsnxm fiinyntsfq rtynajx ktw
wjhtrrjsinsl ymnx xzgojhy yt dtzw htsxnijwfynts.

Bmjs bj anjb ymj lwjfy gqjxxnslx bnym bmnhm tzw htzsywd mfx gjjs kfatwji,
ymtxj bmnhm bj stb jsotd, fsi ymj rjfsx bmnhm bj utxxjxx tk mfsinsl ymjr
itbs zsnrufnwji yt tzw qfyjxy utxyjwnyd, tzw fyyjsynts nx nwwjxnxyngqd
iwfbs yt ymj xtzwhj kwtr bmjshj ymjd kqtb. Qjy zx, ymjs, zsnyj ns tkkjwnsl
tzw rtxy lwfyjkzq fhpstbqjilrjsyx ktw ymjxj gqjxxnslx yt ymj Inansj Fzymtw
tk Fqq Ltti.