Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Gur cebterff bs bhe nssnvef fvapr gur ynfg frffvba unf orra fhpu nf znl
whfgyl or pynvzrq naq rkcrpgrq haqre n Tbireazrag qrevivat nyy vgf cbjref
sebz na rayvtugrarq crbcyr, naq haqre ynjf sbezrq ol gurve ercerfragngvirf,
ba terng pbafvqrengvba, sbe gur fbyr checbfr bs cebzbgvat gur jrysner naq
unccvarff bs gurve pbafgvghragf. Va gur rkrphgvba bs gubfr ynjf naq bs gur
cbjref irfgrq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba va gur Rkrphgvir, haerzvggrq nggragvba
unf orra cnvq gb gur terng bowrpgf gb juvpu gurl rkgraq.

Va gur pbapreaf juvpu ner rkpyhfviryl vagreany gurer vf tbbq pnhfr gb or
fngvfsvrq jvgu gur erfhyg. Gur ynjf unir unq gurve qhr bcrengvba naq
rssrpg.

Va gubfr eryngvat gb sbervta cbjref, V nz unccl gb fgngr gung crnpr naq
nzvgl ner cerfreirq jvgu nyy ol n fgevpg bofreinapr ba obgu fvqrf bs gur
evtugf bs rnpu.

Va znggref gbhpuvat bhe pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr, jurer n qvssrerapr bs
bcvavba unf rkvfgrq nf gb gur pbaqvgvbaf ba juvpu vg fubhyq or cynprq, rnpu
cnegl unf chefhrq vgf bja cbyvpl jvgubhg tvivat whfg pnhfr bs bssrafr gb
gur bgure.

Va guvf naahny pbzzhavpngvba, rfcrpvnyyl jura vg vf nqqerffrq gb n arj
Pbaterff, gur jubyr fpbcr bs bhe cbyvgvpny pbapreaf anghenyyl pbzrf vagb
ivrj, gung reebef, vs fhpu unir orra pbzzvggrq, znl or pbeerpgrq; gung
qrsrpgf juvpu unir orpbzr znavsrfg znl or erzrqvrq; naq, ba gur bgure unaq,
gung zrnfherf juvpu jrer nqbcgrq ba qhr qryvorengvba, naq juvpu rkcrevrapr
unf furja ner whfg va gurzfryirf naq rffragvny gb gur choyvp jrysner,
fubhyq or crefrirerq va naq fhccbegrq. Va cresbezvat guvf arprffnel naq
irel vzcbegnag qhgl V funyy raqrnibe gb cynpr orsber lbh ba vgf zrevgf
rirel fhowrpg gung vf gubhtug gb or ragvgyrq gb lbhe cnegvphyne nggragvba
va nf qvfgvapg naq pyrne n yvtug nf V znl or noyr.

Ol na npg bs Znepu 3eq, 1815, fb zhpu bs gur frireny npgf nf vzcbfrq uvture
qhgvrf ba gur gbaantr bs sbervta irffryf naq ba gur znahsnpgherf naq
cebqhpgvbaf bs sbervta angvbaf jura vzcbegrq vagb gur Havgrq Fgngrf va
sbervta irffryf guna jura vzcbegrq va irffryf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jrer
ercrnyrq fb sne nf erfcrpgrq gur znahsnpgherf naq cebqhpgvbaf bs gur angvba
gb juvpu fhpu irffryf orybatrq, ba gur pbaqvgvba gung gur ercrny fubhyq
gnxr rssrpg bayl va snibe bs nal sbervta angvba jura gur Rkrphgvir fubhyq
or fngvfsvrq gung fhpu qvfpevzvangvat qhgvrf gb gur qvfnqinagntr bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf unq yvxrjvfr orra ercrnyrq ol fhpu angvba.

Ol guvf npg n cebcbfvgvba jnf znqr gb nyy angvbaf gb cynpr bhe pbzzrepr
jvgu rnpu ba n onfvf juvpu vg jnf cerfhzrq jbhyq or npprcgnoyr gb nyy.
Rirel angvba jnf nyybjrq gb oevat vgf znahsnpgherf naq cebqhpgvbaf vagb bhe
cbegf naq gb gnxr gur znahsnpgherf naq cebqhpgvbaf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
onpx gb gurve cbegf va gurve bja irffryf ba gur fnzr pbaqvgvbaf gung gurl
zvtug or genafcbegrq va irffryf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, naq va erghea vg jnf
erdhverq gung n yvxr nppbzzbqngvba fubhyq or tenagrq gb gur irffryf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf va gur cbegf bs bgure cbjref. Gur negvpyrf gb or nqzvggrq be
cebuvovgrq ba rvgure fvqr sbezrq ab cneg bs gur cebcbfrq neenatrzrag. Rnpu
cnegl jbhyq ergnva gur evtug gb nqzvg be cebuvovg fhpu negvpyrf sebz gur
bgure nf vg gubhtug cebcre, naq ba vgf bja pbaqvgvbaf.

Jura gur angher bs gur pbzzrepr orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq rirel bgure
pbhagel jnf gnxra vagb ivrj, vg jnf gubhtug gung guvf cebcbfvgvba jbhyq or
pbafvqrerq snve, naq rira yvoreny, ol rirel cbjre. Gur rkcbegf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf pbafvfg trarenyyl bs negvpyrf bs gur svefg arprffvgl naq bs
ehqr zngrevnyf va qrznaq sbe sbervta znahsnpgbevrf, bs terng ohyx,
erdhvevat sbe gurve genafcbegngvba znal irffryf, gur erghea sbe juvpu va
gur znahsnpgherf naq cebqhpgvbaf bs nal sbervta pbhagel, rira jura qvfcbfrq
bs gurer gb nqinagntr, znl or oebhtug va n fvatyr irffry. Guvf bofreingvba
vf gur zber rfcrpvnyyl nccyvpnoyr gb gubfr pbhagevrf sebz juvpu
znahsnpgherf nybar ner vzcbegrq, ohg vg nccyvrf va terng rkgrag gb gur
Rhebcrna qbzvavbaf bs rirel Rhebcrna cbjre naq va n pregnva rkgrag gb nyy
gur pbybavrf bs gubfr cbjref. Ol cynpvat, gura, gur anivtngvba cerpvfryl ba
gur fnzr tebhaq va gur genafcbegngvba bs rkcbegf naq vzcbegf orgjrra gur
Havgrq Fgngrf naq bgure pbhagevrf vg jnf cerfhzrq gung nyy jnf bssrerq
juvpu pbhyq or qrfverq. Vg frrzrq gb or gur bayl cebcbfvgvba juvpu pbhyq or
qrivfrq juvpu jbhyq ergnva rira gur frzoynapr bs rdhnyvgl va bhe snibe.

Znal pbafvqrengvbaf bs terng jrvtug tnir hf n evtug gb rkcrpg gung guvf
pbzzrepr fubhyq or rkgraqrq gb gur pbybavrf nf jryy nf gb gur Rhebcrna
qbzvavbaf bs bgure cbjref. Jvgu gur ynggre, rfcrpvnyyl jvgu pbhagevrf
rkpyhfviryl znahsnpghevat, gur nqinagntr jnf znavsrfgyl ba gurve fvqr. Na
vaqrzavgl sbe gung ybff jnf rkcrpgrq sebz n genqr jvgu gur pbybavrf, naq
jvgu gur terngre ernfba nf vg jnf xabja gung gur fhccyvrf juvpu gur
pbybavrf qrevirq sebz hf jrer bs gur uvturfg vzcbegnapr gb gurz, gurve
ynobe orvat orfgbjrq jvgu fb zhpu terngre cebsvg va gur phygher bs bgure
negvpyrf; naq orpnhfr, yvxrjvfr, gur negvpyrf bs juvpu gubfr fhccyvrf
pbafvfgrq, sbezvat fb ynetr n cebcbegvba bs gur rkcbegf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, jrer arire nqzvggrq vagb nal bs gur cbegf bs Rhebcr rkprcg va pnfrf
bs terng rzretrapl gb nireg n frevbhf pnynzvgl.

Jura ab negvpyr vf nqzvggrq juvpu vf abg erdhverq gb fhccyl gur jnagf bs
gur cnegl nqzvggvat vg, naq nqzvggrq gura abg va snibe bs nal cnegvphyne
pbhagel gb gur qvfnqinagntr bs bguref, ohg ba pbaqvgvbaf rdhnyyl nccyvpnoyr
gb nyy, vg frrzf whfg gung gur negvpyrf guhf nqzvggrq naq vaivgrq fubhyq or
pneevrq guvgure va gur irffryf bs gur pbhagel nssbeqvat fhpu fhccyl naq
gung gur erpvcebpvgl fubhyq or sbhaq va n pbeerfcbaqvat nppbzzbqngvba ba
gur bgure fvqr. Ol nyybjvat rnpu cnegl gb cnegvpvcngr va gur genafcbegngvba
bs fhpu fhccyvrf ba gur cnlzrag bs rdhny gbaantr n fgebat cebbs jnf
nssbeqrq bs na nppbzzbqngvat fcvevg. Gb nonaqba gb vg gur genafcbegngvba bs
gur jubyr jbhyq or n fnpevsvpr juvpu bhtug abg gb or rkcrpgrq. Gur qrznaq
va gur cerfrag vafgnapr jbhyq or gur zber haernfbanoyr va pbafvqrengvba bs
gur terng vardhnyvgl rkvfgvat va gur genqr jvgu gur cnerag pbhagel.

Fhpu jnf gur onfvf bs bhe flfgrz nf rfgnoyvfurq ol gur npg bs 1815 naq fhpu
vgf gehr punenpgre. Va gur lrne va juvpu guvf npg jnf cnffrq n gerngl jnf
pbapyhqrq jvgu Terng Oevgnva, va fgevpg pbasbezvgl jvgu vgf cevapvcyrf, va
ertneq gb ure Rhebcrna qbzvavbaf. Gb ure pbybavrf, ubjrire, va gur Jrfg
Vaqvrf naq ba guvf pbagvarag vg jnf abg rkgraqrq, gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag
pynvzvat gur rkpyhfvir fhccyl bs gubfr pbybavrf, naq sebz bhe bja cbegf,
naq bs gur cebqhpgvbaf bs gur pbybavrf va erghea va ure bja irffryf. Gb
guvf pynvz gur Havgrq Fgngrf pbhyq abg nffrag, naq va pbafrdhrapr rnpu
cnegl fhfcraqrq gur vagrepbhefr va gur irffryf bs gur bgure ol n
cebuvovgvba juvpu fgvyy rkvfgf.

Gur fnzr pbaqvgvbaf jrer bssrerq gb Senapr, ohg abg npprcgrq. Ure
Tbireazrag unf qrznaqrq bgure pbaqvgvbaf zber snibenoyr gb ure anivtngvba,
naq juvpu fubhyq nyfb tvir rkgenbeqvanel rapbhentrzrag gb ure znahsnpgherf
naq cebqhpgvbaf va cbegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gb gurfr vg jnf gubhtug
vzcebcre gb npprqr, naq va pbafrdhrapr gur erfgevpgvir erthyngvbaf juvpu
unq orra nqbcgrq ba ure cneg, orvat pbhagreinvyrq ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, gur qverpg pbzzrepr orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf va gur irffryf bs
rnpu cnegl unf orra va terng zrnfher fhfcraqrq. Vg vf zhpu gb or erterggrq
gung, nygubhtu n artbgvngvba unf orra ybat craqvat, fhpu vf gur qvirefvgl
bs ivrjf ragregnvarq ba gur inevbhf cbvagf juvpu unir orra oebhtug vagb
qvfphffvba gung gurer qbrf abg nccrne gb or nal ernfbanoyr cebfcrpg bs vgf
rneyl pbapyhfvba.

Vg vf zl qhgl gb fgngr, nf n pnhfr bs irel terng erterg, gung irel frevbhf
qvssreraprf unir bppheerq va guvf artbgvngvba erfcrpgvat gur pbafgehpgvba
bs gur 8gu negvpyr bs gur gerngl bs 1803, ol juvpu Ybhvfvnan jnf prqrq gb
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, naq yvxrjvfr erfcrpgvat gur frvmher bs gur Ncbyyb, va
1820, sbe n ivbyngvba bs bhe erirahr ynjf. Gur pynvz bs gur Tbireazrag bs
Senapr unf rkpvgrq abg yrff fhecevfr guna pbaprea, orpnhfr gurer qbrf abg
nccrne gb or n whfg sbhaqngvba sbe vg va rvgure vafgnapr. Ol gur 8gu
negvpyr bs gur gerngl ersreerq gb vg vf fgvchyngrq gung nsgre gur
rkcvengvba bs gjryir lrnef, qhevat juvpu gvzr vg jnf cebivqrq ol gur 7gu be
cerprqvat negvpyr gung gur irffryf bs Senapr naq Fcnva fubhyq or nqzvggrq
vagb gur cbegf bs gur prqrq greevgbel jvgubhg cnlvat uvture qhgvrf ba
zrepunaqvfr be gbaantr ba gur irffryf guna fhpu nf jrer cnvq ol pvgvmraf bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gur fuvcf bs Senapr fubhyq sberire nsgrejneqf or cynprq
ba gur sbbgvat bs gur zbfg sniberq angvba.

Ol gur boivbhf pbafgehpgvba bs guvf negvpyr vg vf cerfhzrq gung vg jnf
vagraqrq gung ab snibe fubhyq or tenagrq gb nal cbjre va gubfr cbegf gb
juvpu Senapr fubhyq abg or sbegujvgu ragvgyrq, abe fubhyq nal nppbzzbqngvba
or nyybjrq gb nabgure cbjre ba pbaqvgvbaf gb juvpu fur jbhyq abg nyfb or
ragvgyrq ba gur fnzr pbaqvgvbaf. Haqre guvf pbafgehpgvba ab snibe be
nppbzzbqngvba pbhyq or tenagrq gb nal cbjre gb gur cerwhqvpr bs Senapr. Ol
nyybjvat gur rdhvinyrag nyybjrq ol gubfr cbjref fur jbhyq nyjnlf fgnaq va
gubfr cbegf ba gur sbbgvat bs gur zbfg sniberq angvba.

Ohg vs guvf negvpyr fubhyq or fb pbafgehrq nf gung Senapr fubhyq rawbl, bs
evtug, naq jvgubhg cnlvat gur rdhvinyrag, nyy gur nqinagntrf bs fhpu
pbaqvgvbaf nf zvtug or nyybjrq gb bgure cbjref va erghea sbe vzcbegnag
pbaprffvbaf znqr ol gurz, gura gur jubyr punenpgre bs gur fgvchyngvbaf
jbhyq or punatrq. Fur jbhyq abg or cynprq ba gur sbbgvat bs gur zbfg
sniberq angvba, ohg ba n sbbgvat uryq ol ab bgure angvba. Fur jbhyq rawbl
nyy nqinagntrf nyybjrq gb gurz va pbafvqrengvba bs yvxr nqinagntrf nyybjrq
gb hf, serr sebz rirel naq nal pbaqvgvba jungrire.

Nf yvggyr pnhfr unf gur Tbireazrag bs Senapr gb pbzcynva bs gur frvmher bs
gur Ncbyyb naq gur erzbiny bs bgure irffryf sebz gur jngref bs gur Fg.
Znelf. Vg jvyy abg or qravrq gung rirel angvba unf n evtug gb erthyngr vgf
pbzzrepvny flfgrz nf vg guvaxf svg naq gb rasbepr gur pbyyrpgvba bs vgf
erirahr, cebivqrq vg or qbar jvgubhg na vainfvba bs gur evtugf bs bgure
cbjref. Gur ivbyngvba bs vgf erirahr ynjf vf na bssrafr juvpu nyy angvbaf
chavfu, gur chavfuzrag bs juvpu tvirf ab whfg pnhfr bs pbzcynvag gb gur
cbjre gb juvpu gur bssraqref orybat, cebivqrq vg or rkgraqrq gb nyy
rdhnyyl.

Va guvf pnfr rirel pvephzfgnapr juvpu bppheerq vaqvpngrq n svkrq checbfr gb
ivbyngr bhe erirahr ynjf. Unq gur cnegl vagraqrq gb unir chefhrq n snve
genqr ur jbhyq unir ragrerq gur cbeg bs fbzr bgure cbjre, ynaqrq uvf tbbqf
ng gur phfgbz ubhfr nppbeqvat gb ynj, naq er-fuvccrq naq frag gurz va gur
irffry bs fhpu cbjre, be bs fbzr bgure cbjre juvpu zvtug ynjshyyl oevat
gurz, serr sebz fhpu qhgvrf, gb n cbeg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Ohg gur
pbaqhpg bs gur cnegl va guvf pnfr jnf nygbtrgure qvssrerag. Ur ragrerq gur
evire Fg. Znelf, gur obhaqnel yvar orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Sybevqn,
naq gbbx uvf cbfvgvba ba gur Fcnavfu fvqr, ba juvpu va gur jubyr rkgrag bs
gur evire gurer jnf ab gbja, ab cbeg be phfgbz ubhfr, naq fpnepryl nal
frggyrzrag. Uvf checbfr, gurersber, jnf abg gb fryy uvf tbbqf gb gur
vaunovgnagf bs Sybevqn, ohg gb pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, va rkpunatr
sbe gurve cebqhpgvbaf, juvpu pbhyq abg or qbar jvgubhg n qverpg naq
cnycnoyr oernpu bs bhe ynjf. Vg vf xabja gung n erthyne flfgrzngvp cyna unq
orra sbezrq ol pregnva crefbaf sbe gur ivbyngvba bs bhe erirahr flfgrz,
juvpu znqr vg gur zber arprffnel gb purpx gur cebprrqvat va vgf
pbzzraprzrag.

Gung gur hafrggyrq onax bs n evire fb erzbgr sebz gur Fcnavfu tneevfbaf naq
cbchyngvba pbhyq tvir ab cebgrpgvba gb nal cnegl va fhpu n cenpgvpr vf
oryvrirq gb or va fgevpg nppbeq jvgu gur ynj bs angvbaf. Vg jbhyq abg unir
pbzcbegrq jvgu n sevraqyl cbyvpl va Fcnva urefrys gb unir rfgnoyvfurq n
phfgbz ubhfr gurer, fvapr vg pbhyq unir fhofreirq ab bgure checbfr guna gb
ryhqr bhe erirahr ynj. Ohg gur Tbireazrag bs Fcnva qvq abg nqbcg gung
zrnfher. Ba gur pbagenel, vg vf haqrefgbbq gung gur Pncgnva-Trareny bs
Phon, gb jubz na nccyvpngvba gb gung rssrpg jnf znqr ol gurfr nqiragheref,
unq abg npprqrq gb vg.

Gur pbaqvgvba bs gubfr Cebivaprf sbe znal lrnef orsber gurl jrer prqrq gb
gur Havgrq Fgngrf arrq abg abj or qjryg ba. Vaunovgrq ol qvssrerag gevorf
bs Vaqvnaf naq na vaebnq sbe rirel xvaq bs nqiraghere, gur whevfqvpgvba bs
Fcnva znl or fnvq gb unir orra nyzbfg rkpyhfviryl pbasvarq gb ure
tneevfbaf. Vg pregnvayl pbhyq abg rkgraq gb cynprf jurer fur unq ab
nhgubevgl. Gur ehyrf, gurersber, nccyvpnoyr gb frggyrq pbhagevrf tbirearq
ol ynjf pbhyq abg or qrrzrq fb gb gur qrfregf bs Sybevqn naq gb gur
bppheeraprf gurer.

Vg zrevgf nggragvba nyfb gung gur greevgbel unq orra prqrq gb gur Havgrq
Fgngrf ol n gerngl gur engvsvpngvba bs juvpu unq abg orra ershfrq, naq
juvpu unf fvapr orra cresbezrq. Haqre nal pvephzfgnaprf, gurersber, Fcnva
orpnzr yrff erfcbafvoyr sbe fhpu npgf pbzzvggrq gurer, naq gur Havgrq
Fgngrf zber ng yvoregl gb rkrepvfr nhgubevgl gb cerirag fb terng n
zvfpuvrs. Gur pbaqhpg bs guvf Tbireazrag unf va rirel vafgnapr orra
pbapvyvngbel naq sevraqyl gb Senapr. Gur pbafgehpgvba bs bhe erirahr ynj va
vgf nccyvpngvba gb gur pnfrf juvpu unir sbezrq gur tebhaq bs fhpu frevbhf
pbzcynvag ba ure cneg naq gur beqre gb gur pbyyrpgbe bs Fg. Znelf, va
nppbeq jvgu vg, jrer tvira gjb lrnef orsber gurfr pnfrf bppheerq, naq va
ersrerapr gb n oernpu juvpu jnf nggrzcgrq ol gur fhowrpgf bs nabgure cbjre.
Gur nccyvpngvba, gurersber, gb gur pnfrf va dhrfgvba jnf varivgnoyr. Nf
fbba nf gur gerngl ol juvpu gurfr Cebivaprf jrer prqrq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf
jnf engvsvrq, naq nyy qnatre bs shegure oernpu bs bhe erirahr ynjf prnfrq,
na beqre jnf tvira sbe gur eryrnfr bs gur irffry juvpu unq orra frvmrq naq
sbe gur qvfzvffvba bs gur yvory juvpu unq orra vafgvghgrq ntnvafg ure.

Gur cevapvcyrf bs guvf flfgrz bs erpvcebpvgl, sbhaqrq ba gur ynj bs
Znepu 3eq, 1815, unir orra fvapr pneevrq vagb rssrpg jvgu gur Xvatqbzf bs
gur Argureynaqf, Fjrqra, Cehffvn, naq jvgu Unzohet, Yhorpx, naq Byqraohet,
jvgu n cebivfvba znqr ol fhofrdhrag ynjf va ertneq gb gur Argureynaqf,
Cehffvn, Unzohet, naq Oerzra gung fhpu cebqhpr naq znahsnpgherf nf pbhyq
bayl or, be zbfg hfhnyyl jrer, svefg fuvccrq sebz gur cbegf bs gubfr
pbhagevrf, gur fnzr orvat vzcbegrq va irffryf jubyyl orybatvat gb gurve
fhowrpgf, fubhyq or pbafvqrerq naq nqzvggrq nf gurve bja znahsnpgherf naq
cebqhpgvbaf.

Gur Tbireazrag bs Abejnl unf ol na beqvanapr bcrarq gur cbegf bs gung cneg
bs gur qbzvavbaf bs gur Xvat bs Fjrqra gb gur irffryf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
hcba gur cnlzrag bs ab bgure be uvture qhgvrf guna ner cnvq ol Abejrtvna
irffryf, sebz jungrire cynpr neevivat naq jvgu jungrire negvpyrf ynqra.
Gurl unir erdhrfgrq gur erpvcebpny nyybjnapr sbe gur irffryf bs Abejnl va
gur cbegf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Nf guvf cevivyrtr vf abg jvguva gur fpbcr
bs gur npg bs Znepu 3eq, 1815, naq pna bayl or tenagrq ol Pbaterff, naq nf
vg znl vaibyir gur pbzzrepvny eryngvbaf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgu bgure
angvbaf, gur fhowrpg vf fhozvggrq gb gur jvfqbz bs Pbaterff.

V unir cerfragrq guhf shyyl gb lbhe ivrj bhe pbzzrepvny eryngvbaf jvgu
bgure cbjref, gung, frrvat gurz va qrgnvy jvgu rnpu cbjre, naq xabjvat gur
onfvf ba juvpu gurl erfg, Pbaterff znl va vgf jvfqbz qrpvqr jurgure nal
punatr bhtug gb or znqr, naq, vs nal, va jung erfcrpg. Vs guvf onfvf vf
hawhfg be haernfbanoyr, fheryl vg bhtug gb or nonaqbarq; ohg vs vg or whfg
naq ernfbanoyr, naq nal punatr va vg jvyy znxr pbaprffvbaf fhoirefvir bs
rdhnyvgl naq graqvat va vgf pbafrdhraprf gb fnc gur sbhaqngvbaf bs bhe
cebfcrevgl, gura gur ernfbaf ner rdhnyyl fgebat sbe nqurevat gb gur tebhaq
nyernql gnxra, naq fhccbegvat vg ol fhpu shegure erthyngvbaf nf znl nccrne
gb or cebcre, fubhyq nal nqqvgvbany fhccbeg or sbhaq arprffnel.

Gur dhrfgvba pbapreavat gur pbafgehpgvba bs gur svefg negvpyr bs gur gerngl
bs Turag unf orra, ol n wbvag npg bs gur ercerfragngvirf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf naq bs Terng Oevgnva ng gur Pbheg bs Fg. Crgrefohet, fhozvggrq gb
gur qrpvfvba bs Uvf Vzcrevny Znwrfgl gur Rzcrebe bs Ehffvn. Gur erfhyg bs
gung fhozvffvba unf abg lrg orra erprvirq. Gur pbzzvffvbaref haqre gur 5gu
negvpyr bs gung gerngl abg univat orra noyr gb nterr hcba gurve qrpvfvba,
gurve ercbegf gb gur gjb Tbireazragf, nppbeqvat gb gur cebivfvbaf bs gur
gerngl, znl or rkcrpgrq ng na rneyl qnl.

Jvgu Fcnva gur gerngl bs Sroehnel 22aq, 1819, unf orra cnegyl pneevrq vagb
rkrphgvba. Cbffrffvba bs Rnfg naq Jrfg Sybevqn unf orra tvira gb gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, ohg gur bssvpref punetrq jvgu gung freivpr ol na beqre
sebz Uvf Pngubyvp Znwrfgl, qryvirerq ol uvf zvavfgre gb gur Frpergnel bs
Fgngr, naq genafzvggrq ol n fcrpvny ntrag gb gur Pncgnva-Trareny bs Phon,
gb jubz vg jnf qverpgrq naq va jubz gur Tbireazrag bs gubfr Cebivaprf
jnf irfgrq, unir abg bayl bzvggrq, va pbageniragvba bs gur beqre bs gurve
Fbirervta, gur cresbeznapr bs gur rkcerff fgvchyngvba gb qryvire bire gur
nepuvirf naq qbphzragf eryngvat gb gur cebcregl naq fbirervtagl bs gubfr
Cebivaprf, nyy bs juvpu vg jnf rkcrpgrq jbhyq unir orra qryvirerq rvgure
orsber be jura gur gebbcf jrer jvguqenja, ohg qrsrngrq fvapr rirel rssbeg
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb bognva gurz, rfcrpvnyyl gubfr bs gur terngrfg
vzcbegnapr. Guvf bzvffvba unf tvira evfr gb frireny vapvqragf bs n cnvashy
angher, gur punenpgre bs juvpu jvyy or shyyl qvfpybfrq ol gur qbphzragf
juvpu jvyy or urernsgre pbzzhavpngrq.

Va rirel bgure pvephzfgnapr bs gur ynj bs gur 3eq bs Znepu ynfg, sbe
pneelvat vagb rssrpg gung gerngl, unf orra qhyl nggraqrq gb. Sbe gur
rkrphgvba bs gung cneg juvpu cerfreirq va sbepr, sbe gur Tbireazrag bs gur
vaunovgnagf sbe gur grez fcrpvsvrq, nyy gur pvivy, zvyvgnel, naq whqvpvny
cbjref rkrepvfrq ol gur rkvfgvat Tbireazrag bs gubfr Cebivaprf na nqrdhngr
ahzore bs bssvpref, nf jnf cerfhzrq, jrer nccbvagrq, naq beqrerq gb gurve
erfcrpgvir fgngvbaf. Obgu Cebivaprf jrer sbezrq vagb bar Greevgbel, naq n
tbireabe nccbvagrq sbe vg; ohg va pbafvqrengvba bs gur cer-rkvfgvat
qvivfvba naq bs gur qvfgnapr naq qvssvphygl bs pbzzhavpngvba orgjrra
Crafnpbyn, gur erfvqrapr bs gur tbireabe bs Jrfg Sybevqn, naq Fg.
Nhthfgvar, gung bs gur tbireabe bs Rnfg Sybevqn, ng juvpu cynprf gur
vapbafvqrenoyr cbchyngvba bs rnpu Cebivapr jnf cevapvcnyyl pbyyrpgrq, gjb
frpergnevrf jrer nccbvagrq, gur bar gb erfvqr ng Crafnpbyn naq gur bgure ng
Fg. Nhthfgvar.

Qhr nggragvba jnf yvxrjvfr cnvq gb gur rkrphgvba bs gur ynjf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf eryngvat gb gur erirahr naq gur fynir genqr, juvpu jrer rkgraqrq gb
gurfr Cebivaprf. Gur jubyr Greevgbel jnf qvivqrq vagb guerr pbyyrpgvba
qvfgevpgf, gung cneg ylvat orgjrra gur evire Fg. Znelf naq Pncr Sybevqn
sbezvat bar, gung sebz gur Pncr gb gur Ncnynpuvpbyn nabgure, naq gung sebz
gur Ncnynpuvpbyn gb gur Creqvqb gur guveq. Gb gurfr qvfgevpgf gur hfhny
ahzore bs erirahr bssvpref jrer nccbvagrq; naq gb frpher gur qhr bcrengvba
bs gurfr ynjf bar whqtr naq n qvfgevpg nggbearl jrer nccbvagrq gb erfvqr ng
Crafnpbyn, naq yvxrjvfr bar whqtr naq n qvfgevpg nggbearl gb erfvqr ng Fg.
Nhthfgvar, jvgu n fcrpvsvrq obhaqnel orgjrra gurz; naq bar znefuny sbe gur
jubyr, jvgu nhgubevgl gb nccbvag n qrchgl.

Va pneelvat guvf ynj vagb rssrpg, naq rfcrpvnyyl gung cneg eryngvat gb gur
cbjref bs gur rkvfgvat Tbireazrag bs gubfr Cebivaprf, vg jnf gubhtug
vzcbegnag, va pbafvqrengvba bs gur fubeg grez sbe juvpu vg jnf gb bcrengr
naq gur enqvpny punatr juvpu jbhyq or znqr ng gur nccebnpuvat frffvba bs
Pbaterff, gb nibvq rkcrafr, gb znxr ab nccbvagzrag juvpu fubhyq abg or
nofbyhgryl arprffnel gb tvir rssrpg gb gubfr cbjref, gb jvguqenj abar bs
bhe pvgvmraf sebz gurve chefhvgf, jurerol gb fhowrpg gur Tbireazrag gb
pynvzf juvpu pbhyq abg or tengvsvrq naq gur cnegvrf gb ybffrf juvpu vg
jbhyq or cnvashy gb jvgarff.

Vg unf orra frra jvgu zhpu pbaprea gung va gur cresbeznapr bs gurfr qhgvrf
n pbyyvfvba nebfr orgjrra gur tbireabe bs gur Greevgbel naq gur whqtr
nccbvagrq sbe gur jrfgrea qvfgevpg. Vg jnf cerfhzrq gung gur ynj haqre
juvpu guvf genafvgbel Tbireazrag jnf betnavmrq, naq gur pbzzvffvbaf juvpu
jrer tenagrq gb gur bssvpref jub jrer nccbvagrq gb rkrphgr rnpu oenapu bs
gur flfgrz, naq gb juvpu gur pbzzvffvbaf jrer nqncgrq, jbhyq unir orra
haqrefgbbq va gur fnzr frafr ol gurz va juvpu gurl jrer haqrefgbbq ol gur
Rkrphgvir. Zhpu nyybjnapr vf qhr gb bssvpref rzcyblrq va rnpu oenapu bs
guvf flfgrz, naq gur zber fb nf gurer vf tbbq pnhfr gb oryvrir gung rnpu
npgrq haqre gur pbaivpgvba gung ur cbffrffrq gur cbjre juvpu ur haqregbbx
gb rkrepvfr. Bs gur bssvpre ubyqvat gur cevapvcny fgngvba, V guvax vg
cebcre gb bofreir gung ur npprcgrq vg jvgu eryhpgnapr, va pbzcyvnapr jvgu
gur vaivgngvba tvira uvz, naq sebz n uvtu frafr bs qhgl gb uvf pbhagel,
orvat jvyyvat gb pbagevohgr gb gur pbafhzzngvba bs na rirag juvpu jbhyq
vafher pbzcyrgr cebgrpgvba gb na vzcbegnag cneg bs bhe Havba, juvpu unq
fhssrerq zhpu sebz vaphefvba naq vainfvba, naq gb gur qrsrafr bs juvpu uvf
irel tnyynag naq cngevbgvp freivprf unq orra fb fvtanyyl naq hfrshyyl
qribgrq.

Sebz gur vagevafvp qvssvphygl bs rkrphgvat ynjf qrevivat gurve bevtva sebz
qvssrerag fbheprf, naq fb rffragvnyyl qvssrerag va znal vzcbegnag
pvephzfgnaprf, gur nqinagntr, naq vaqrrq gur arprffvgl, bs rfgnoyvfuvat nf
fbba nf cenpgvpnoyr n jryy-betnavmrq Tbireazrag bire gung Greevgbel ba gur
cevapvcyrf bs bhe flfgrz vf nccnerag. Guvf fhowrpg vf gurersber erpbzzraqrq
gb gur rneyl pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff.

Va pbzcyvnapr jvgu na vawhapgvba bs gur ynj bs gur 3eq bs Znepu ynfg, guerr
pbzzvffvbaref unir nyfb orra nccbvagrq naq n obneq betnavmrq sbe pneelvat
vagb rssrpg gur 11gu negvpyr bs gur gerngl nobir erpvgrq, znxvat cebivfvba
sbe gur cnlzrag bs fhpu bs bhe pvgvmraf nf unir jryy-sbhaqrq pynvzf ba
Fcnva bs gur punenpgre fcrpvsvrq ol gung gerngl. Guvf obneq unf ragrerq ba
vgf qhgvrf naq znqr fbzr cebterff gurerva. Gur pbzzvffvbare naq fheirlbe bs
Uvf Pngubyvp Znwrfgl, cebivqrq sbe ol gur 4gu negvpyr bs gur gerngl, unir
abg lrg neevirq va gur Havgrq Fgngrf, ohg ner fbba rkcrpgrq. Nf fbba nf
gurl qb neevir pbeerfcbaqvat nccbvagzragf jvyy or znqr naq rirel snpvyvgl
or nssbeqrq sbe gur qhr rkrphgvba bs guvf freivpr.

Gur Tbireazrag bs Uvf Zbfg Snvgushy Znwrfgl fvapr gur grezvangvba bs gur
ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff unf orra erzbirq sebz Evb qr Wnarveb gb Yvfoba,
jurer n eribyhgvba fvzvyne gb gung juvpu unq bppheerq va gur arvtuobevat
Xvatqbz bs Fcnva unq va yvxr znaare orra fnapgvbarq ol gur npprcgrq naq
cyrqtrq snvgu bs gur ervtavat zbanepu. Gur qvcybzngvp vagrepbhefr orgjrra
gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gur Cbeghthrfr qbzvavbaf, vagreehcgrq ol guvf
vzcbegnag rirag, unf abg lrg orra erfhzrq, ohg gur punatr bs vagreany
nqzvavfgengvba univat nyernql zngrevnyyl nssrpgrq gur pbzzrepvny
vagrepbhefr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgu gur Cbeghthrfr qbzvavbaf, gur erarjny
bs gur choyvp zvffvbaf orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf nccrnef gb or qrfvenoyr ng
na rneyl qnl.

Vg vf haqrefgbbq gung gur pbybavrf va Fbhgu Nzrevpn unir unq terng fhpprff
qhevat gur cerfrag lrne va gur fgehttyr sbe gurve vaqrcraqrapr. Gur arj
Tbireazrag bs Pbybzovn unf rkgraqrq vgf greevgbevrf naq pbafvqrenoyl
nhtzragrq vgf fgeratgu, naq ng Ohrabf Nlerf, jurer pvivy qvffrafvbaf unq
sbe fbzr gvzr orsber cerinvyrq, terngre unezbal naq orggre beqre nccrne gb
unir orra rfgnoyvfurq. Rdhny fhpprff unf nggraqrq gurve rssbegf va gur
Cebivaprf ba gur Cnpvsvp. Vg unf ybat orra znavsrfg gung vg jbhyq or
vzcbffvoyr sbe Fcnva gb erqhpr gurfr pbybavrf ol sbepr, naq rdhnyyl fb gung
ab pbaqvgvbaf fubeg bs gurve vaqrcraqrapr jbhyq or fngvfsnpgbel gb gurz. Vg
znl gurersber or cerfhzrq, naq vg vf rnearfgyl ubcrq, gung gur Tbireazrag
bs Fcnva, thvqrq ol rayvtugrarq naq yvoreny pbhapvyf, jvyy svaq vg gb
pbzcbeg jvgu vgf vagrerfgf naq qhr gb vgf zntanavzvgl gb grezvangr guvf
rkunhfgvat pbagebirefl ba gung onfvf. Gb cebzbgr guvf erfhyg ol sevraqyl
pbhafry jvgu gur Tbireazrag bs Fcnva jvyy or gur bowrpg bs gur Tbireazrag
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Va pbaqhpgvat gur svfpny bcrengvbaf bs gur lrne vg unf orra sbhaq arprffnel
gb pneel vagb shyy rssrpg gur npg bs gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff
nhgubevmvat n ybna bs $5 zvyyvbaf. Guvf fhz unf orra envfrq ng na nirentr
cerzvhz bs $5.59 cre praghz hcba fgbpx ornevat na vagrerfg ng gur engr bs
5% cre naahz, erqrrznoyr ng gur bcgvba bs gur Tbireazrag nsgre Wnahnel
1fg, 1835.

Gurer unf orra vffhrq haqre gur cebivfvbaf bs guvf npg $4,735,296.30 bs 5%
fgbpx, naq gurer unf orra be jvyy or erqrrzrq qhevat gur lrne $3,197,030.71
bs Ybhvfvnan 6% qrsreerq fgbpx naq Zvffvffvccv fgbpx. Gurer unf gurersber
orra na npghny vapernfr bs gur choyvp qrog pbagenpgrq qhevat gur lrne bs
$1,538,266.69.

Gur erprvcgf vagb gur Gernfhel sebz gur svefg bs Wnahnel gb gur 30gu bs
Frcgrzore ynfg unir nzbhagrq gb $16,219,197.70, juvpu, jvgu gur onynapr bs
$1,198,461.21 va gur Gernfhel ba gur sbezre qnl, znxr gur nttertngr fhz bs
$17,417,658.91. Gur cnlzragf sebz gur Gernfhel qhevat gur fnzr crevbq unir
nzbhagrq gb $15,655,288.47, yrnivat va gur Gernfhel ba gur ynfg-zragvbarq
qnl gur fhz bs $1,762,370.44. Vg vf rfgvzngrq gung gur erprvcgf bs gur 4gu
dhnegre bs gur lrne jvyy rkprrq gur qrznaqf juvpu jvyy or znqr ba gur
Gernfhel qhevat gur fnzr crevbq, naq gung gur nzbhag va gur Gernfhel ba gur
30gu bs Frcgrzore ynfg jvyy or vapernfrq ba gur svefg qnl bs Wnahnel arkg.

Ng gur pybfr bs gur ynfg frffvba vg jnf nagvpvcngrq gung gur cebterffvir
qvzvahgvba bs gur choyvp erirahr va 1819 naq 1820, juvpu unq orra gur
erfhyg bs gur ynathvq fgngr bs bhe sbervta pbzzrepr va gubfr lrnef, unq va
gur ynggre lrne ernpurq vgf rkgerzr cbvag bs qrcerffvba. Vg unf, ubjrire,
orra nfpregnvarq gung gung cbvag jnf ernpurq bayl ng gur grezvangvba bs gur
svefg dhnegre bs gur cerfrag lrne. Sebz gung gvzr hagvy gur 30gu bs
Frcgrzore ynfg gur qhgvrf frpherq unir rkprrqrq gubfr bs gur pbeerfcbaqvat
dhnegref bs gur ynfg lrne $1.172 zvyyvbaf, juvyfg gur nzbhag bs qroragherf
vffhrq qhevat gur guerr svefg dhnegref bs guvf lrne vf $952,000 yrff guna
gung bs gur fnzr dhnegref bs gur ynfg lrne.

Gurer ner whfg tebhaqf gb oryvrir gung gur vzcebirzrag juvpu unf bppheerq
va gur erirahr qhevat gur ynfg-zragvbarq crevbq jvyy abg bayl or
znvagnvarq, ohg gung vg jvyy cebterffviryl vapernfr guebhtu gur arkg naq
frireny fhpprrqvat lrnef, fb nf gb ernyvmr gur erfhygf juvpu jrer cerfragrq
hcba gung fhowrpg ol gur bssvpvny ercbegf bs gur Gernfhel ng gur
pbzzraprzrag bs gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff.

Haqre gur vasyhrapr bs gur zbfg hasnibenoyr pvephzfgnaprf gur erirahr sbe
gur arkg naq fhofrdhrag lrnef gb gur lrne 1825 jvyy rkprrq gur qrznaqf ng
cerfrag nhgubevmrq ol ynj.

Vg znl snveyl or cerfhzrq gung haqre gur cebgrpgvba tvira gb qbzrfgvp
znahsnpgherf ol gur rkvfgvat ynjf jr funyy orpbzr ng ab qvfgnag crevbq n
znahsnpghevat pbhagel ba na rkgrafvir fpnyr. Cbffrffvat nf jr qb gur enj
zngrevnyf va fhpu infg nzbhag, jvgu n pncnpvgl gb nhtzrag gurz gb na
vaqrsvavgr rkgrag; envfvat jvguva gur pbhagel nyvzrag bs rirel xvaq gb na
nzbhag sne rkprrqvat gur qrznaq sbe ubzr pbafhzcgvba, rira va gur zbfg
hasnibenoyr lrnef, naq gb or bognvarq nyjnlf ng n irel zbqrengr cevpr;
fxvyyrq nyfb, nf bhe crbcyr ner, va gur zrpunavp negf naq va rirel
vzcebirzrag pnyphyngrq gb yrffra gur qrznaq sbe naq gur cevpr bs ynobe, vg
vf znavsrfg gung gurve fhpprff va rirel oenapu bs qbzrfgvp vaqhfgel znl naq
jvyy or pneevrq, haqre gur rapbhentrzrag tvira ol gur cerfrag qhgvrf, gb na
rkgrag gb zrrg nal qrznaq juvpu haqre n snve pbzcrgvgvba znl or znqr hcba
vg.

N pbafvqrenoyr vapernfr bs qbzrfgvp znahsnpgherf, ol qvzvavfuvat gur
vzcbegngvba bs sbervta, jvyy cebonoyl graq gb yrffra gur nzbhag bs gur
choyvp erirahr. Nf, ubjrire, n ynetr cebcbegvba bs gur erirahr juvpu vf
qrevirq sebz qhgvrf vf envfrq sebz bgure negvpyrf guna znahsnpgherf, gur
qrznaq sbe juvpu jvyy vapernfr jvgu bhe cbchyngvba, vg vf oryvrirq gung n
shaq jvyy fgvyy or envfrq sebz gung fbhepr nqrdhngr gb gur terngre cneg bs
gur choyvp rkcraqvgherf, rfcrpvnyyl nf gubfr rkcraqvgherf, fubhyq jr
pbagvahr gb or oyrffrq jvgu crnpr, jvyy or qvzvavfurq ol gur pbzcyrgvba bs
gur sbegvsvpngvbaf, qbpx lneqf, naq bgure choyvp jbexf, ol gur nhtzragngvba
bs gur Anil gb gur cbvag gb juvpu vg vf cebcbfrq gb pneel vg, naq ol gur
cnlzrag bs gur choyvp qrog, vapyhqvat crafvbaf sbe zvyvgnel freivprf.

Vg pna abg or qbhogrq gung gur zber pbzcyrgr bhe vagreany erfbheprf naq gur
yrff qrcraqrag jr ner ba sbervta cbjref sbe rirel angvbany nf jryy nf
qbzrfgvp checbfr gur terngre naq zber fgnoyr jvyy or gur choyvp sryvpvgl.
Ol gur vapernfr bs qbzrfgvp znahsnpgherf jvyy gur qrznaq sbe gur ehqr
zngrevnyf ng ubzr or vapernfrq, naq guhf jvyy gur qrcraqrapr bs gur frireny
cnegf bs bhe Havba ba rnpu bgure naq gur fgeratgu bs gur Havba vgfrys or
cebcbegvbanoyl nhtzragrq.

Va guvf cebprff, juvpu vf irel qrfvenoyr, naq varivgnoyr haqre gur rkvfgvat
qhgvrf, gur erfbheprf juvpu boivbhfyl cerfrag gurzfryirf gb fhccyl n
qrsvpvrapl va gur erirahr, fubhyq vg bpphe, ner gur vagrerfgf juvpu znl
qrevir gur cevapvcny orarsvg sebz gur punatr. Vs qbzrfgvp znahsnpgherf ner
envfrq ol qhgvrf ba sbervta, gur qrsvpvrapl va gur shaq arprffnel sbe
choyvp checbfrf fubhyq or fhccyvrq ol qhgvrf ba gur sbezre.

Ng gur ynfg frffvba vg frrzrq qbhogshy jurgure gur erirahr qrevirq sebz gur
cerfrag fbheprf jbhyq or nqrdhngr gb nyy gur terng checbfrf bs bhe Havba,
vapyhqvat gur pbafgehpgvba bs bhe sbegvsvpngvbaf, gur nhtzragngvba bs gur
Anil, naq gur cebgrpgvba bs bhe pbzzrepr ntnvafg gur qnatref gb juvpu vg vf
rkcbfrq. Unq gur qrsvpvrapl orra fhpu nf gb fhowrpg hf gb gur arprffvgl
rvgure gb nonaqba gubfr zrnfherf bs qrsrafr be gb erfbeg gb gur bgure zrnaf
sbe nqrdhngr shaqf, gur pbhefr cerfragrq gb gur nqbcgvba bs n iveghbhf naq
rayvtugrarq crbcyr nccrnerq gb or n cynva bar. Vg zhfg or tengvslvat gb nyy
gb xabj gung guvf arprffvgl qbrf abg rkvfg. Abguvat, ubjrire, va
pbagrzcyngvba bs fhpu vzcbegnag bowrpgf, juvpu pna or rnfvyl cebivqrq sbe,
fubhyq or yrsg gb unmneq. Vg vf gubhtug gung gur erirahr znl erprvir na
nhtzragngvba sebz gur rkvfgvat fbheprf, naq va n znaare gb nvq bhe
znahsnpgherf, jvgubhg unfgravat cerzngheryl gur erfhyg juvpu unf orra
fhttrfgrq. Vg vf oryvrirq gung n zbqrengr nqqvgvbany qhgl ba pregnva
negvpyrf jbhyq unir gung rssrpg, jvgubhg orvat yvnoyr gb nal frevbhf
bowrpgvba.

Gur rknzvangvba bs gur jubyr pbnfg, sbe gur pbafgehpgvba bs creznarag
sbegvsvpngvbaf, sebz Fg. Pebvk gb gur Fnovar, jvgu gur rkprcgvba bs cneg bs
gur greevgbel yngryl npdhverq, jvyy or pbzcyrgrq va gur cerfrag lrne, nf
jvyy or gur fheirl bs gur Zvffvffvccv, haqre gur erfbyhgvba bs gur Ubhfr bs
Ercerfragngvirf, sebz gur zbhgu bs gur Buvb gb gur bprna, naq yvxrjvfr bs
gur Buvb sebz Ybhvfivyyr gb gur Zvffvffvccv. N cebterff pbeerfcbaqvat jvgu
gur fhzf nccebcevngrq unf nyfb orra znqr va gur pbafgehpgvba bs gurfr
sbegvsvpngvbaf ng gur cbegf qrfvtangrq. Nf gurl jvyy sbez n flfgrz bs
qrsrafr sbe gur jubyr znevgvzr sebagvre, naq va pbafrdhrapr sbe gur
vagrevbe, naq ner gb ynfg sbe ntrf, gur terngrfg pner unf orra gnxra gb svk
gur cbfvgvba bs rnpu jbex naq gb sbez vg ba fhpu n fpnyr nf jvyy or
nqrdhngr gb gur checbfr vagraqrq ol vg. Nyy gur vayrgf naq nffnvynoyr cnegf
bs bhe Havba unir orra zvahgryl rknzvarq, naq cbfvgvbaf gnxra jvgu n ivrj
gb gur orfg rssrpg, bofreivat va rirel vafgnapr n whfg ertneq sbe rpbabzl.
Qbhogf, ubjrire, orvat ragregnvarq nf gb gur cebcevrgl bs gur cbfvgvba naq
rkgrag bs gur jbex ng Qnhcuvar Vfynaq, shegure cebterff va vg jnf fhfcraqrq
fbba nsgre gur ynfg frffvba bs Pbaterff, naq na beqre tvira gb gur Obneq bs
Ratvarref naq Aniny Pbzzvffvbaref gb znxr n shegure naq zber zvahgr
rknzvangvba bs vg va obgu erfcrpgf, naq gb ercbeg gur erfhyg jvgubhg
qrynl.

Qhr cebterff unf orra znqr va gur pbafgehpgvba bs irffryf bs jne nppbeqvat
gb gur ynj cebivqvat sbe gur tenqhny nhtzragngvba bs gur Anil, naq gb gur
rkgrag bs rkvfgvat nccebcevngvbaf. Gur irffryf nhgubevmrq ol gur npg bs
1820 unir nyy orra pbzcyrgrq naq ner abj va npghny freivpr. Abar bs gur
ynetre fuvcf unir orra be jvyy or ynhapurq sbe gur cerfrag, gur bowrpg
orvat gb cebgrpg nyy juvpu znl abg or erdhverq sbe vzzrqvngr freivpr sebz
qrpnl ol fhvgnoyr ohvyqvatf rerpgrq bire gurz.

N fdhnqeba unf orra znvagnvarq, nf urergbsber, va gur Zrqvgreenarna, ol
zrnaf jurerbs crnpr unf orra cerfreirq jvgu gur Oneonel Cbjref. Guvf
fdhnqeba unf orra erqhprq gur cerfrag lrne gb nf fznyy n sbepr nf vf
pbzcngvoyr jvgu gur shysvyyzrag bs gur bowrpg vagraqrq ol vg. Sebz cnfg
rkcrevrapr naq gur orfg vasbezngvba erfcrpgvat gur ivrjf bs gubfr cbjref vg
vf qvfgvapgyl haqrefgbbq gung fubhyq bhe fdhnqeba or jvguqenja gurl jbhyq
fbba erpbzzrapr gurve ubfgvyvgvrf naq qrcerqngvbaf hcba bhe pbzzrepr. Gurve
sbegvsvpngvbaf unir yngryl orra erohvyg naq gurve znevgvzr sbepr
vapernfrq.

Vg unf nyfb orra sbhaq arprffnel gb znvagnva n aniny sbepr ba gur Cnpvsvp
sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs gur irel vzcbegnag vagrerfgf bs bhe pvgvmraf ratntrq
va pbzzrepr naq gur svfurevrf va gung frn. Irffryf unir yvxrjvfr orra
rzcyblrq va pehvfvat nybat gur Ngynagvp pbnfg, va gur Thys bs Zrkvpb, ba
gur pbnfg bs Nsevpn, naq va gur arvtuobevat frnf. Va gur ynggre znal
cvenpvrf unir orra pbzzvggrq ba bhe pbzzrepr, naq fb rkgrafvir jnf orpbzvat
gur enatr bs gubfr hacevapvcyrq nqiragheref gung gurer jnf pnhfr gb
ncceruraq, jvgubhg n gvzryl naq qrpvfvir rssbeg gb fhccerff gurz, gur jbefg
pbafrdhraprf jbhyq rafhr. Sbeghangryl, n pbafvqrenoyr purpx unf orra tvira
gb gung fcvevg ol bhe pehvfref, jub unir fhpprrqrq va pncghevat naq
qrfgeblvat frireny bs gurve irffryf. Arireguryrff, vg vf pbafvqrerq na
bowrpg bs uvtu vzcbegnapr gb pbagvahr gurfr pehvfrf hagvy gur cenpgvpr vf
ragveryl fhccerffrq.

Yvxr fhpprff unf nggraqrq bhe rssbegf gb fhccerff gur fynir genqr. Haqre
gur synt bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gur fnapgvba bs gurve cncref gur genqr
znl or pbafvqrerq nf ragveryl fhccerffrq, naq vs nal bs bhe pvgvmraf ner
ratntrq va vg haqre gur syntf naq cncref bs bgure cbjref, vg vf bayl sebz n
erfcrpg bs gubfr cbjref gung gurfr bssraqref ner abg frvmrq naq oebhtug
ubzr gb erprvir gur chavfuzrag juvpu gur ynjf vasyvpg. Vs rirel bgure cbjre
fubhyq nqbcg gur fnzr cbyvpl naq chefhr gur fnzr ivtbebhf zrnaf sbe
pneelvat vg vagb rssrpg, gur genqr pbhyq ab ybatre rkvfg.

Qrrcyl vzcerffrq jvgu gur oyrffvatf juvpu jr rawbl, naq bs juvpu jr unir
fhpu znavsbyq cebbsf, zl zvaq vf veerfvfgvoyl qenja gb gung Nyzvtugl Orvat,
gur terng fbhepr sebz jurapr gurl cebprrq naq gb jubz bhe zbfg tengrshy
npxabjyrqtzragf ner qhr.