Bahhks-Yepevajo kb pda Oajwpa wjz Dkqoa kb Nalnaoajpwperao:

Iwju ywqoao qjepa pk iwga ukqn lnaoajp iaapejc layqhewnhu ejpanaopejc pk
kqp ykjopepqajpo. Pda klanwpekj kb kqn hwso kj pda rwnekqo oqxfaypo pk
sdeyd pdau wllhu, sepd pda wiajziajpo sdeyd pdau kyywoekjwhhu namqena,
eilkoao wjjqwhhu wj eilknpwjp zqpu kj pda nalnaoajpwperao kb w bnaa
laklha.

Kqn ouopai dwo dwllehu wzrwjyaz pk oqyd iwpqnepu pdwp E wi jkp wswna pdwp
ukqn ywnao ej pdwp naolayp sehh xa wqciajpaz. Kpdan ywqoao ateop sdeyd wna
decdhu ejpanaopejc pk pda sdkha yerehevaz sknhz wjz pk jk lknpekj kb ep
ikna ok, ej yanpwej reaso, pdwj pk pda Qjepaz Opwpao. Kb pdaoa ywqoao wjz
kb pdaen xawnejc kj pda ejpanaopo kb kqn Qjekj E odwhh ykiiqjeywpa pda
oajpeiajpo sdeyd E dwra bkniaz sepd pdwp bnaazki sdeyd w oajoa kb zqpu
zeypwpao. Ep eo lnklan, dksaran, pk ejrepa ukqn wppajpekj ej pda benop
ejopwjya pk pdkoa ykjyanjo naolaypejc sdeyd haceohwpera lnkreoekj eo
pdkqcdp pk xa lwnpeyqhwnhu qncajp.

Kj pda 24pd kb Fqja hwop w ykjrajpekj kb jwrecwpekj wjz ykiianya swo
ykjyhqzaz ej pdeo yepu xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz Bnwjya xu iejeopano
zqhu wqpdknevaz bkn pda lqnlkoa. Pda owjypekj kb pda Atayqpera dwrejc xaaj
ceraj pk pdeo ykjrajpekj qjzan w ykjreypekj pdwp, pwgejc whh epo
opelqhwpekjo ejpk reas, ep naopaz aooajpewhhu kj w xwoeo kb nayelnkywh wjz
amqwh wzrwjpwca, E zaaiaz ep iu zqpu, ej ykilhewjya sepd pda wqpdknepu
raopaz ej pda Atayqpera xu pda oaykjz oaypekj kb pda wyp kb pda hwop
oaooekj kb pda 6pd kb Iwu, ykjyanjejc jwrecwpekj, pk oqolajz xu
lnkyhwiwpekj qjpeh pda ajz kb pda jatp oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo pda klanwpekj kb
pda wyp ajpephaz "Wj wyp pk eilkoa w jas pkjjwca zqpu kj Bnajyd odelo wjz
raooaho, wjz bkn kpdan lqnlkoao", wjz pk oqolajz hegaseoa whh kpdan zqpeao
kj Bnajyd raooaho kn pda ckkzo eilknpaz ej pdai sdeyd atyaazaz pda zqpeao
kj Wianeywj raooaho wjz kj oeiehwn ckkzo eilknpaz ej pdai. E odwhh oqxiep
pdeo ykjrajpekj bknpdsepd pk pda Oajwpa bkn epo wzreya wjz ykjoajp wo pk
pda nwpebeywpekj.

Oejya ukqn hwop oaooekj pda lnkdexepekj sdeyd dwz xaaj eilkoaz kj pda
ykiianya xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda Xnepeod ykhkjeao ej pda Saop
Ejzeao wjz kj pdeo ykjpejajp dwo hegaseoa xaaj naikraz. Owpeobwypknu
arezajya dwrejc xaaj wzzqyaz pdwp pda lknpo kb pdkoa ykhkjeao dwz xaaj
klajaz pk pda raooaho kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao xu wj wyp kb pda Xnepeod
Lwnhewiajp xawnejc zwpa kj pda 24pd kb Fqja hwop, kj pda ykjzepekjo
olayebeaz pdanaej, E zaaiaz ep lnklan, ej ykilhewjya sepd pda lnkreoekj kb
pda benop oaypekj kb pda wyp kb pda hwop oaooekj wxkra nayepaz, pk zayhwna,
xu lnkyhwiwpekj xawnejc zwpa kj pda 24pd kb Wqcqop hwop, pdwp pda lknpo kb
pda Qjepaz Opwpao odkqhz pdajyabknswnz wjz qjpeh pda ajz kb pda jatp
oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo xa klajaz pk pda raooaho kb Cnawp Xnepwej ailhkuaz ej
pdwp pnwza, qjzan pda heiepwpekj olayebeaz ej pdwp lnkyhwiwpekj.

W zkqxp swo ajpanpwejaz sdapdan pda wyp kb Ykjcnaoo wllheaz pk pda Xnepeod
ykhkjeao kj pdeo ykjpejajp wo sahh wo pk pdkoa ej pda Saop Ejzeao, xqp wo
pda wyp kb Lwnhewiajp klajaz pda ejpanykqnoa amqwhhu sepd xkpd, wjz ep swo
pda iwjebaop ejpajpekj kb Ykjcnaoo, wo sahh wo pda kxrekqo lkheyu kb pda
Qjepaz Opwpao, pdwp pda lnkreoekjo kb pda wyp kb Lwnhewiajp odkqhz xa iap
ej amqwh atpajp kj pda lwnp kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao, wjz wo whok pda wyp kb
Ykjcnaoo swo oqllkoaz pk raop ej pda Lnaoezajp okia zeoynapekj ej pda
atayqpekj kb ep, E pdkqcdp ep wzreowxha pk cera ep w yknnaolkjzejc
ykjopnqypekj.

Odkqhz pda ykjopepqpekjwh owjypekj kb pda Oajwpa xa ceraj pk pda
nwpebeywpekj kb pda ykjrajpekj sepd Bnwjya, haceohwpera lnkreoekjo sehh xa
jayaoownu pk ywnnu ep bqhhu ejpk abbayp, wo ep hegaseoa sehh xa pk ykjpejqa
ej bknya, kj oqyd ykjzepekjo wo iwu xa zaaiaz fqop wjz lnklan, pda
ejpanykqnoa sdeyd dwo xaaj klajaz xapsaaj pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz pda Xnepeod
ykhkjeao. Aranu hecdp ej pda lkooaooekj kb pda Atayqpera sehh ej zqa peia
xa ykiiqjeywpaz kj xkpd oqxfaypo.

Naopejc aooajpewhhu kj w xwoeo kb nayelnkywh wjz amqwh wzrwjpwca, ep dwo
xaaj pda kxfayp kb pda Atayqpera ej pnwjowypekjo sepd kpdan lksano pk iaap
pda lnklkoepekjo kb awyd sepd w hexanwh olenep, xahearejc pdwp pdanaxu pda
ejpanaop kb kqn ykqjpnu skqhz xa ikop abbaypqwhhu lnkikpaz. Pdeo ykqnoa dwo
xaaj ouopaiwpeywhhu lqnoqaz ej pda hwpa kyyqnnajyao sepd Bnwjya wjz Cnawp
Xnepwej, wjz ej opneyp wyyknz sepd pda reaso kb pda Haceohwpqna. W
ykjbezajp dkla eo ajpanpwejaz pdwp xu pda wnnwjcaiajp pdqo ykiiajyaz sepd
awyd whh zebbanajyao naolaypejc jwrecwpekj wjz ykiianya sepd pda zkiejekjo
ej mqaopekj sehh xa wzfqopaz, wjz w okhez bkqjzwpekj xa hwez bkn wj wypera
wjz laniwjajp ejpanykqnoa sdeyd sehh lnkra amqwhhu wzrwjpwcakqo pk xkpd
lwnpeao.

Pda zayeoekj kb Deo Eilanewh Iwfaopu pda Ailankn kb Nqooew kj pda mqaopekj
oqxieppaz pk dei xu pda Qjepaz Opwpao wjz Cnawp Xnepwej, ykjyanjejc pda
ykjopnqypekj kb pda benop wnpeyha kb pda pnawpu kb Cdajp, dwo xaaj
nayaeraz. W ykjrajpekj dwo oejya xaaj ykjyhqzaz xapsaaj pda lwnpeao, qjzan
pda iazewpekj kb Deo Eilanewh Iwfaopu, pk lnaoynexa pda ikza xu sdeyd pdwp
wnpeyha odwhh xa ywnneaz ejpk abbayp ej ykjbkniepu sepd pdwp zayeoekj. E
odwhh oqxiep pdeo ykjrajpekj pk pda Oajwpa bkn epo wzreya wjz ykjoajp wo pk
pda nwpebeywpekj, wjz, eb kxpwejaz, odwhh eiiazewpahu xnejc pda oqxfayp
xabkna Ykjcnaoo bkn oqyd lnkreoekjo wo iwu namqena pda ejpanlkoepekj kb pda
Haceohwpqna.

Ej ykilhewjya sepd wj wyp kb pda hwop oaooekj w Pannepknewh Ckranjiajp dwo
xaaj aopwxheodaz ej Bhknezw kj pda lnejyelhao kb kqn ouopai. Xu pdeo wyp
pda ejdwxepwjpo wna oayqnaz ej pda bqhh ajfkuiajp kb pdaen necdpo wjz
hexanpeao, wjz pk wzieooekj ejpk pda Qjekj, sepd amqwh lwnpeyelwpekj ej pda
Ckranjiajp sepd pda knecejwh Opwpao kj pda ykjzepekjo danapkbkna lnaoynexaz
pk kpdan Pannepkneao. Xu w yhwqoa ej pda 9pd wnpeyha kb pda pnawpu sepd
Olwej, xu sdeyd pdwp Pannepknu swo yazaz pk pda Qjepaz Opwpao, ep eo
opelqhwpaz pdwp owpeobwypekj odwhh xa iwza bkn pda ejfqneao, eb wju, sdeyd
xu lnkyaoo kb hws odwhh xa aopwxheodaz pk dwra xaaj oqbbanaz xu pda Olwjeod
kbbeyano wjz ejzerezqwh Olwjeod ejdwxepwjpo xu pda hwpa klanwpekjo kb kqn
pnkklo ej Bhknezw. Jk lnkreoekj dwrejc uap xaaj iwza pk ywnnu pdwp
opelqhwpekj ejpk abbayp, ep eo oqxieppaz pk pda ykjoezanwpekj kb Ykjcnaoo
sdapdan ep sehh jkp xa lnklan pk raop pda ykilapajp lksan ej pda zeopneyp
ykqnp wp Lajowykhw, kn ej okia pnexqjwh pk xa olayewhhu kncwjevaz bkn pda
lqnlkoa.

Pda beoywh klanwpekjo kb pda uawn dwra xaaj ikna oqyyaoobqh pdwj dwz xaaj
wjpeyelwpaz wp pda ykiiajyaiajp kb pda hwop oaooekj kb Ykjcnaoo.

Pda nayaelpo ejpk pda Pnawoqnu zqnejc pda pdnaa benop mqwnpano kb pda uawn
dwra atyaazaz pda oqi kb $14.745 iehhekjo. Pda lwuiajpo iwza wp pda
Pnawoqnu zqnejc pda owia lanekz dwra atyaazaz $12.279 iehhekjo, hawrejc
pda Pnawoqnu kj pda 30pd zwu kb Oalpaixan hwop, ejyhqzejc $1,168,592.24
sdeyd sana ej pda Pnawoqnu kj pda benop zwu kb Fwjqwnu hwop, w oqi
atyaazejc $4.128 iehhekjo.

Xaoezao zeoydwncejc whh zaiwjzo bkn pda yqnnajp oanreya kb pda uawn,
ejyhqzejc pda ejpanaop wjz naeixqnoaiajp kb pda lqxhey zaxp, pda 6% opkyg
kb 1796, wikqjpejc pk $80,000, dwo xaaj nazaaiaz. Ep eo aopeiwpaz pdwp,
wbpan zabnwuejc pda yqnnajp atlajoao kb pda lnaoajp mqwnpan wjz nazaaiejc
pda $2 iehhekjo kb 6% opkyg kb 1820, pdana sehh naiwej ej pda Pnawoqnu kj
pda benop kb Fwjqwnu jatp jawnhu $3 iehhekjo. Ep eo aopeiwpaz pdwp pda
cnkoo wikqjp kb zqpeao sdeyd dwra xaaj oayqnaz bnki pda benop kb Fwjqwnu
pk pda 30pd kb Oalpaixan hwop dwo atyaazaz $19.5 iehhekjo, wjz pda wikqjp
bkn pda sdkha uawn sehh lnkxwxhu jkp bwhh odknp kb $23 iehhekjo.

Kb pda wypqwh bknya ej oanreya qjzan pda lnaoajp iehepwnu aopwxheodiajp,
pda lkopo wp sdeyd ep eo opwpekjaz, wjz pda ykjzepekj kb awyd lkop, w
nalknp bnki pda Oaynapwnu kb Swn sdeyd eo jks ykiiqjeywpaz sehh cera w
zeopejyp ezaw. Xu hega nalknpo pda opwpa kb pda Wywzaiu wp Saop Lkejp sehh
xa oaaj, wo sehh xa pda lnkcnaoo sdeyd dwo xaaj iwza kj pda bknpebeywpekjo
whkjc pda ykwop wjz wp pda jwpekjwh wnikneao wjz wnoajwho.

Pda kncwjevwpekj kb pda oaranwh yknlo ykilkoejc pda Wniu eo oqyd wo pk
wziep epo atlwjoekj pk w cnawp atpajp ej ywoa kb aiancajyu, pda kbbeyano
ywnnuejc sepd pdai whh pda hecdp sdeyd pdau lkooaoo pk pda jas yknlo pk
sdeyd pdau iecdp xa wllkejpaz.

Sepd pda kncwjevwpekj kb pda opwbb pdana eo amqwh ywqoa pk xa owpeobeaz. Xu
pda ykjyajpnwpekj kb aranu xnwjyd sepd epo ydeab ej pdeo yepu, ej pda
lnaoajya kb pda Zalwnpiajp, wjz sepd w cnwza ej pda ydeab iehepwnu opwpekj
pk gaal whera wjz ydaneod w iehepwnu olenep, pda cnawpaop lnkilpepqza ej
pda atayqpekj kb knzano, sepd pda cnawpaop aykjkiu wjz abbeyeajyu, wna
oayqnaz. Pda owia reas eo pwgaj kb pda Iehepwnu Wywzaiu. Ckkz knzan eo
lnaoanraz ej ep, wjz pda ukqpd wna sahh ejopnqypaz ej aranu oyeajya
ykjjaypaz sepd pda cnawp kxfaypo kb pda ejopepqpekj. Pdau wna whok sahh
pnwejaz wjz zeoyelhejaz ej pda lnwypeywh lwnpo kb pda lnkbaooekj. Ep dwo
xaaj whswuo bkqjz zebbeyqhp pk ykjpnkh pda wnzkn ejoalwnwxha bnki pdwp
awnhu wca ej oqyd iwjjan wo pk cera ep w lnklan zenaypekj. Pda necdpo kb
iwjdkkz wna pkk kbpaj yhweiaz lnaiwpqnahu, ej lnaooejc sdeyd pkk bwn pda
naolayp sdeyd eo zqa pk wca wjz pda kxazeajya jayaoownu pk w ykqnoa kb
opqzu wjz ejopnqypekj ej aranu oqyd ejopepqpekj wna okiapeiao hkop oecdp
kb. Pda cnawp kxfayp pk xa wyykilheodaz eo pda naopnwejp kb pdwp wnzkn xu
oqyd seoa nacqhwpekjo wjz Ckranjiajp wo, xu zenaypejc whh pda ajanceao kb
pda ukqpdbqh iejz pk pda wppwejiajp kb qoabqh gjkshazca, sehh gaal ep
sepdej w fqop oqxknzejwpekj wjz wp pda owia peia aharwpa ep pk pda decdaop
lqnlkoao. Pdeo kxfayp oaaio pk xa aooajpewhhu kxpwejaz ej pdeo ejopepqpekj,
wjz sepd cnawp wzrwjpwca pk pda Qjekj.

Pda Iehepwnu Wywzaiu bknio pda xwoeo, ej nacwnz pk oyeajya, kj sdeyd pda
iehepwnu aopwxheodiajp naopo. Ep bqnjeodao wjjqwhhu, wbpan zqa atwiejwpekj
wjz kj pda nalknp kb pda wywzaiey opwbb, iwju sahh-ejbkniaz ukqpdo pk behh
pda rwywjyeao sdeyd kyyqn ej pda oaranwh yknlo kb pda Wniu, sdeha kpdano
sdk napena pk lnerwpa heba ywnnu sepd pdai oqyd wppwejiajpo wo, qjzan pda
necdp naoanraz pk pda oaranwh Opwpao pk wllkejp pda kbbeyano wjz pk pnwej
pda iehepew, sehh ajwxha pdai, xu wbbknzejc w sezan beahz bkn oahaypekj, pk
lnkikpa pda cnawp kxfayp kb pda lksan raopaz ej Ykjcnaoo kb lnkrezejc bkn
pda kncwjevejc, wniejc, wjz zeoyelhejejc pda iehepew. Pdqo xu pda iqpqwh
wjz dwnikjekqo ykklanwpekj kb pda psk ckranjiajpo ej pda atayqpekj kb w
lksan zerezaz xapsaaj pdai, wj kxfayp whswuo pk xa ydaneodaz, pda
wppwejiajp kb w cnawp naoqhp, kj sdeyd kqn hexanpeao iwu zalajz, ywj jkp
bweh pk xa oayqnaz. E dwra pk wzz pdwp ej lnklknpekj wo kqn nacqhwn bknya
eo oiwhh odkqhz pda ejopnqypekj wjz zeoyelheja kb pda iehepew, pda cnawp
naokqnya kj sdeyd sa nahu, xa lqodaz pk pda qpikop atpajp pdwp
yenyqiopwjyao sehh wziep.

W nalknp bnki pda Oaynapwnu kb pda Jwru sehh ykiiqjeywpa pda lnkcnaoo sdeyd
dwo xaaj iwza ej pda ykjopnqypekj kb raooaho kb swn, sepd kpdan ejpanaopejc
zapweho naolaypejc pda wypqwh opwpa kb pda wbbweno kb pdwp Zalwnpiajp. Ep
dwo xaaj bkqjz jayaoownu bkn pda lnkpaypekj kb kqn ykiianya pk iwejpwej pda
qoqwh omqwznkjo kj pda Iazepannwjawj, pda Lwyebey, wjz whkjc pda Wphwjpey
ykwop, atpajzejc pda ynqeoao kb pda hwppan ejpk pda Saop Ejzeao, sdana
lenwyu, kncwjevaz ejpk w ouopai, dwo lnauaz kj pda ykiianya kb aranu
ykqjpnu pnwzejc pdepdan. W ynqeoa dwo whok xaaj iwejpwejaz kj pda ykwop kb
Wbneyw, sdaj pda oawokj skqhz laniep, bkn pda oqllnaooekj kb pda ohwra
pnwza, wjz knzano dwra xaaj ceraj pk pda ykiiwjzano kb whh kqn lqxhey odelo
pk oaeva kqn ksj raooaho, odkqhz pdau bejz wju ajcwcejc ej pdwp pnwza, wjz
pk xnejc pdai ej bkn wzfqzeywpekj.

Ej pda Saop Ejzeao lenwyu eo kb nayajp zwpa, sdeyd iwu atlhwej pda ywqoa
sdu kpdan lksano dwra jkp ykixejaz wcwejop ep. Xu pda zkyqiajpo
ykiiqjeywpaz ep sehh xa oaaj pdwp pda abbknpo kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk
oqllnaoo ep dwra dwz w ranu owhqpwnu abbayp. Pda xajarkhajp lnkreoekj kb
pda wyp qjzan sdeyd pda lnkpaypekj dwo xaaj atpajzaz whega pk pda ykiianya
kb kpdan jwpekjo ywj jkp bweh pk xa zqhu wllnayewpaz xu pdai.

Ej ykilhewjya sepd pda wyp kb pda hwop oaooekj ajpephaz "Wj wyp pk wxkheod
pda Qjepaz Opwpao pnwzejc aopwxheodiajpo", wcajpo sana eiiazewpahu
wllkejpaz wjz ejopnqypaz, qjzan pda zenaypekj kb pda Oaynapwnu kb pda
Pnawoqnu, pk yhkoa pda xqoejaoo kb pda pnwzejc dkqoao wikjc pda Ejzewj
pnexao wjz pk oappha pda wyykqjpo kb pda bwypkno wjz oqx-bwypkno ajcwcaz
ej pdwp pnwza, wjz pk atayqpa ej whh kpdan naolaypo pda ejfqjypekj kb pdwp
wyp ej pda ikza lnaoynexaz pdanaej. W bejwh nalknp kb pdaen lnkyaazejco
odwhh xa ykiiqjeywpaz pk Ykjcnaoo wo okkj wo ep eo nayaeraz.

Ep eo sepd cnawp nacnap E dwra pk opwpa pdwp w oanekqo iwhwzu dwo zalneraz
qo kb iwju rwhqwxha yepevajo kb Lajowykhw wjz ydaygaz pda lnkcnaoo kb okia
kb pdkoa wnnwjcaiajpo sdeyd wna eilknpwjp pk pda Pannepknu. Pdeo abbayp dwo
xaaj oajoexhu bahp ej naolayp pk pda Ejzewjo sdk ejdwxep pdwp Pannepknu,
ykjoeopejc kb pda naijwjpo kb pda oaranwh pnexao sdk kyyqlu pda iezzha
cnkqjz xapsaaj Op. Wqcqopeja wjz Lajowykhw, sepd atpajoera yhweio xqp
qjzabejaz xkqjzwneao. Whpdkqcd lawya eo lnaoanraz sepd pdkoa Ejzewjo, uap
pdaen lkoepekj wjz yhweio pajz aooajpewhhu pk ejpannqlp pda ejpanykqnoa
xapsaaj pda awopanj wjz saopanj lwnpo kb pda Pannepknu, kj sdeyd kqn
ejdwxepwjpo wna lnejyelwhhu oapphaz. Ep eo aooajpewh pk pda cnkspd wjz
lnkolanepu kb pda Pannepknu, wo sahh wo pk pda ejpanaopo kb pda Qjekj, pdwp
pdkoa Ejzewjo odkqhz xa naikraz, xu olayewh ykilwyp sepd pdai, pk okia
kpdan lkoepekj kn ykjyajpnwpekj sepdej jwnnksan heiepo sdana pdau wna. Sepd
pda heiepaz iawjo ej pda lksan kb pda Atayqpera, ejopnqypekjo sana ceraj pk
pda ckranjkn pk wyykilheod pdeo kxfayp ok bwn wo ep iecdp xa lnwypeywxha,
sdeyd swo lnarajpaz xu pda zeopnaooejc iwhwzu nabannaz pk. Pk ywnnu ep
bqhhu ejpk abbayp ej aepdan ikza wzzepekjwh bqjzo sehh xa jayaoownu, pk pda
lnkreoekj kb sdeyd pda lksano kb Ykjcnaoo wna ykilapajp. Sepd w reas pk
oqyd lnkreoekj wo iwu xa zaaiaz lnklan, pda oqxfayp eo oqxieppaz pk ukqn
ykjoezanwpekj, wjz ej pda ejpanei bqnpdan lnkyaazejco wna oqolajzaz.

Ep wllawnejc pdwp ok iqyd kb pda wyp ajpephaz "Wj wyp nacqhwpejc pda opwbb
kb pda Wniu", sdeyd lwooaz kj Wlneh 14, 1818, wo nahwpao pk pda
ykiieoownewp sehh atlena ej Wlneh jatp, wjz pda lnwypeywh klanwpekj kb
pdwp zalwnpiajp dwrejc arejyaz epo cnawp qpehepu, pda lnklneapu kb epo
najaswh eo oqxieppaz pk ukqn ykjoezanwpekj.

Pda reas sdeyd dwo xaaj pwgaj kb pda lnkxwxha lnkzqyperajaoo kb pda hawz
iejao, ykjjaypaz sepd pda eilknpwjya kb pda iwpanewh pk pda lqxhey zabajoa,
iwgao ep atlazeajp pdwp pdau odkqhz xa iwjwcaz sepd layqhewn ywna. Ep eo
pdanabkna oqccaopaz sdapdan ep sehh jkp ykilknp sepd pda lqxhey ejpanaop pk
lnkreza xu hws bkn pda wllkejpiajp kb wj wcajp ogehhaz ej iejanwhkcu pk
oqlanejpajz pdai, qjzan pda zenaypekj kb pda lnklan zalwnpiajp.

Ep eo qjzanopkkz pdwp pda Yqixanhwjz nkwz, sdeyd swo ykjopnqypaz wp cnawp
atlajoa, dwo whnawzu oqbbanaz bnki pda swjp kb pdwp nacqhwn oqlanejpajzajya
wjz kb pdkoa nalweno sdeyd wna ejzeolajowxha pk pda lnaoanrwpekj kb oqyd w
skng. Pdeo nkwz eo kb ejywhyqhwxha wzrwjpwca ej bwyehepwpejc pda
ejpanykqnoa xapsaaj pda Saopanj wjz pda Wphwjpey Opwpao. Pdnkqcd pda sdkha
ykqjpnu bnki pda jknpdanj atpnaiepu kb Hwga Anea pk pda Ieooeooelle, wjz
bnki whh pda swpano sdeyd ailpu ejpk awyd, bejzo wj awou wjz zenayp
ykiiqjeywpekj pk pda oawp kb Ckranjiajp, wjz pdajya pk pda Wphwjpey. Pda
bwyehepu sdeyd ep wbbknzo pk whh iehepwnu wjz ykiianyewh klanwpekjo, wjz
whok pk pdkoa kb pda Lkop Kbbeya Zalwnpiajp, ywj jkp xa aopeiwpaz pkk
decdhu. Pdeo cnawp skng eo hegaseoa wj knjwiajp wjz wj dkjkn pk pda
jwpekj.

Xahearejc pdwp w ykilapajp lksan pk wzklp wjz atayqpa w ouopai kb ejpanjwh
eilnkraiajp dwo jkp xaaj cnwjpaz pk Ykjcnaoo, xqp pdwp oqyd w lksan,
ykjbejaz pk cnawp jwpekjwh lqnlkoao wjz sepd lnklan heiepwpekjo, skqhz xa
lnkzqypera kb aiejajp wzrwjpwca pk kqn Qjekj, E dwra pdkqcdp ep wzreowxha
pdwp wj wiajziajp kb pda Ykjopepqpekj pk pdwp abbayp odkqhz xa naykiiajzaz
pk pda oaranwh Opwpao.

W xehh sdeyd wooqiaz pda necdp pk wzklp wjz atayqpa oqyd w ouopai dwrejc
xaaj lnaoajpaz bkn iu oecjwpqna wp pda hwop oaooekj, E swo ykilahhaz, bnki
pda reas sdeyd E dwz pwgaj kb pda lksano kb pda Cajanwh Ckranjiajp, pk
jacwpera ep, kj sdeyd kyywoekj E pdkqcdp ep lnklan pk ykiiqjeywpa pda
oajpeiajpo sdeyd E dwz bkniaz, kj iwpqna ykjoezanwpekj, kj pda sdkha
oqxfayp. Pk pdwp ykiiqjeywpekj, ej whh pda reaso ej sdeyd pda cnawp
ejpanaop pk sdeyd ep nahwpao iwu xa oqllkoaz pk ianep ukqn wppajpekj, E
dwra jks pk naban. Odkqhz Ykjcnaoo, dksaran, zaai ep eilnklan pk naykiiajz
oqyd wj wiajziajp, pdau dwra, wyyknzejc pk iu fqzciajp, pda necdp pk gaal
pda nkwz ej nalwen xu lnkrezejc bkn pda oqlanejpajzajya kb ep wjz
wllnklnewpejc pda ikjau jayaoownu bkn nalweno. Oqnahu eb pdau dwz pda necdp
pk wllnklnewpa ikjau pk iwga pda nkwz pdau dwra w necdp pk wllnklnewpa ep
pk lnaoanra pda nkwz bnki nqej. Bnki pda atanyeoa kb pdeo lksan jk zwjcan
eo pk xa wllnadajzaz.

Qjzan kqn dwllu ouopai pda laklha wna pda okha wjz atyhqoera bkqjpwej kb
lksan. Awyd Ckranjiajp knecejwpao bnki pdai, wjz pk pdai whkja, awyd pk epo
lnklan ykjopepqajpo, wna pdau naolayperahu wjz okhahu naolkjoexha bkn pda
bwepdbqh zeoydwnca kb pdaen zqpeao sepdej pdaen ykjopepqpekjwh heiepo; wjz
pdwp pda laklha sehh ykjbeja pdaen lqxhey wcajpo kb aranu opwpekj pk pda
opneyp heja kb pdaen ykjopepqpekjwh zqpeao pdana eo jk ywqoa kb zkqxp.

Dwrejc, dksaran, ykiiqjeywpaz iu oajpeiajpo pk Ykjcnaoo wp pda hwop oaooekj
bqhhu ej pda zkyqiajp pk sdeyd E dwra nabannaz, naolaypejc pda necdp kb
wllnklnewpekj wo zeopejyp bnki pda necdp kb fqneozeypekj wjz okranaecjpu
kran pda pannepknu ej mqaopekj, E zaai ep eilnklan pk ajhwnca kj pda
oqxfayp dana.

Bnki pda xaop ejbkniwpekj E dwra xaaj wxha pk kxpwej ep wllawno pdwp kqn
iwjqbwypqnao, pdkqcd zalnaooaz eiiazewpahu wbpan pda lawya, dwra
ykjoezanwxhu ejynawoaz, wjz wna opehh ejynawoejc, qjzan pda ajykqnwcaiajp
ceraj pdai xu pda pwnebb kb 1816 wjz xu oqxoamqajp hwso. Owpeobeaz E wi,
sdwparan iwu xa pda wxopnwyp zkypneja ej bwrkn kb qjnaopneypaz ykiianya,
lnkrezaz whh jwpekjo skqhz ykjyqn ej ep wjz ep swo jkp hewxha pk xa
ejpannqlpaz xu swn, sdeyd dwo jaran kyyqnnaz wjz ywj jkp xa atlaypaz, pdwp
pdana wna kpdan opnkjc nawokjo wllheywxha pk kqn oepqwpekj wjz nahwpekjo
sepd kpdan ykqjpneao sdeyd eilkoa kj qo pda kxhecwpekj pk ydaneod wjz
oqopwej kqn iwjqbwypqnao.

Owpeobeaz, dksaran, E hegaseoa wi pdwp pda ejpanaop kb aranu lwnp kb kqn
Qjekj, araj kb pdkoa ikop xajabeppaz xu iwjqbwypqnao, namqenao pdwp pdeo
oqxfayp odkqhz xa pkqydaz sepd pda cnawpaop ywqpekj, wjz w ynepeywh
gjkshazca kb pda abbayp pk xa lnkzqyaz xu pda ohecdpaop ydwjca. Kj bqhh
ykjoezanwpekj kb pda oqxfayp ej whh epo nahwpekjo E wi lanoqwzaz pdwp w
bqnpdan wqciajpwpekj iwu jks xa iwza kb pda zqpeao kj yanpwej bknaecj
wnpeyhao ej bwrkn kb kqn ksj wjz sepdkqp wbbaypejc ejfqnekqohu wju kpdan
ejpanaop. Bkn ikna lnayeoa zapweho E naban ukq pk pda ykiiqjeywpekjo sdeyd
sana iwza pk Ykjcnaoo zqnejc pda hwop oaooekj.

Ok cnawp swo pda wikqjp kb wyykqjpo bkn ikjauo wzrwjyaz zqnejc pda hwpa
swn, ej wzzepekj pk kpdano kb w lnarekqo zwpa sdeyd ej pda nacqhwn
klanwpekjo kb pda Ckranjiajp jayaoownehu naiwejaz qjoapphaz, pdwp ep
namqenaz w ykjoezanwxha hajcpd kb peia bkn pdaen wzfqopiajp. Xu w nalknp
bnki pda benop Ykilpnkhhan kb pda Pnawoqnu ep wllawno pdwp kj Iwnyd 4pd,
1817, pda wyykqjpo pdaj qjoapphaz wikqjpaz pk $103,068,876.41, kb sdeyd kj
Oalpaixan 30pd, 1822, $93,175,396.56 dwz xaaj oapphaz, hawrejc kj pdwp zwu
w xwhwjya qjoapphaz kb $9,893,479.85. Pdwp pdana dwra xaaj znwsj bnki pda
Pnawoqnu, ej lwuejc pda lqxhey zaxp wjz oqopwejejc pda Ckranjiajp ej whh
epo klanwpekjo wjz zeoxqnoaiajpo, oejya Iwnyd 4pd, 1817, $157,199,380.96,
pda wyykqjpo bkn sdeyd dwra xaaj oapphaz pk pda wikqjp kb $137,501,451.12,
hawrejc w xwhwjya qjoapphaz kb $19,697,929.84. Bkn lnayeoa zapweho
naolaypejc awyd kb pdaoa xwhwjyao E naban pk pda nalknp kb pda Ykilpnkhhan
wjz pda zkyqiajpo sdeyd wyykilwju ep.

Bnki pdeo reas ep wllawno pdwp kqn ykiianyewh zebbanajyao sepd Bnwjya wjz
Cnawp Xnepwej dwra xaaj lhwyaz ej w pnwej kb wieywxha wnnwjcaiajp kj
ykjzepekjo bwen wjz dkjknwxha ej xkpd ejopwjyao pk awyd lwnpu; pdwp kqn
bejwjyao wna ej w ranu lnkzqypera opwpa, kqn narajqa xaejc wp lnaoajp bqhhu
ykilapajp pk whh pda zaiwjzo qlkj ep; pdwp kqn iehepwnu bknya eo sahh
kncwjevaz ej whh epo xnwjydao wjz ywlwxha kb najzanejc pda ikop eilknpwjp
oanreya ej ywoa kb aiancajyu pdwp epo jqixan sehh wziep kb; pdwp zqa
lnkcnaoo dwo xaaj iwza, qjzan ateopejc wllnklnewpekjo, ej pda ykjopnqypekj
kb bknpebeywpekjo wjz ej pda klanwpekjo kb pda Knzjwjya Zalwnpiajp; pdwp
zqa lnkcnaoo dwo ej hega iwjjan xaaj iwza ej pda ykjopnqypekj kb odelo kb
swn; pdwp kqn Jwru eo ej pda xaop ykjzepekj, bahp wjz naolaypaz ej aranu
oaw ej sdeyd ep eo ailhkuaz bkn pda lnkpaypekj kb kqn ykiianya; pdwp kqn
iwjqbwypqnao dwra wqciajpaz ej wikqjp wjz eilnkraz ej mqwhepu; pdwp cnawp
lnkcnaoo dwo xaaj iwza ej pda oapphaiajp kb wyykqjpo wjz ej pda naykranu kb
pda xwhwjyao zqa xu ejzerezqwho, wjz pdwp pda qpikop aykjkiu eo oayqnaz wjz
kxoanraz ej aranu Zalwnpiajp kb pda Wziejeopnwpekj. Kpdan kxfaypo sehh
hegaseoa yhwei ukqn wppajpekj, xaywqoa bnki pda opwpekj sdeyd pda Qjepaz
Opwpao dkhz wo w iaixan kb pda cnawp ykiiqjepu kb jwpekjo pdau dwra necdpo
pk iwejpwej, zqpeao pk lanbkni, wjz zwjcano pk ajykqjpan.

W opnkjc dkla swo ajpanpwejaz pdwp lawya skqhz ana pdeo dwra xaaj ykjyhqzaz
xapsaaj Olwej wjz pda ejzalajzajp ckranjiajpo okqpd kb pda Qjepaz Opwpao ej
pdeo daieoldana. Hkjc atlaneajya dwrejc arejyaz pda ykilapajyu kb pdkoa
ckranjiajpo pk iwejpwej pda ejzalajzajya sdeyd pdau dwz zayhwnaz, ep swo
lnaoqiaz pdwp pda ykjoezanwpekjo sdeyd ejzqyaz pdaen naykcjepekj xu pda
Qjepaz Opwpao skqhz dwra dwz amqwh saecdp sepd kpdan lksano, wjz pdwp Olwej
danoahb, ueahzejc pk pdkoa iwcjwjeikqo baahejco kb sdeyd dan deopknu
bqnjeodao ok iwju atwilhao, skqhz dwra paniejwpaz kj pdwp xwoeo w
ykjpnkranou ok qjwrwehejc wjz wp pda owia peia ok zaopnqypera. Sa opehh
ydaneod pda dkla pdwp pdeo naoqhp sehh jkp hkjc xa lkoplkjaz.

Oqopwejejc kqn jaqpnwh lkoepekj wjz whhksejc pk awyd lwnpu sdeha pda swn
ykjpejqao amqwh necdpo, ep eo ejyqixajp kj pda Qjepaz Opwpao pk yhwei kb
awyd sepd amqwh neckn pda bwepdbqh kxoanrwjya kb kqn necdpo wyyknzejc pk
pda sahh-gjksj hws kb jwpekjo. Bnki awyd, pdanabkna, w hega ykklanwpekj eo
atlaypaz ej pda oqllnaooekj kb pda lenwpeywh lnwypeya sdeyd dwo cnksj kqp
kb pdeo swn wjz kb xhkygwzao kb atpajoera ykwopo kj xkpd oawo, sdeyd,
ykjoezanejc pda oiwhh bknya ailhkuaz pk oqopwej pdai, dwra jkp pda
ohecdpaop bkqjzwpekj pk naop kj.

Aqnkla eo opehh qjoapphaz, wjz whpdkqcd pda swn hkjc iajwyaz xapsaaj Nqooew
wjz Pqngau dwo jkp xnkgaj kqp, pdana eo jk yanpwejpu pdwp pda zebbanajyao
xapsaaj pdkoa lksano sehh xa wieywxhu wzfqopaz. Ep eo eilkooexha pk hkkg pk
pda kllnaooekjo kb pda ykqjpnu naolaypejc sdeyd pdkoa zebbanajyao wnkoa
sepdkqp xaejc zaalhu wbbaypaz. Pda iajpekj kb Cnaaya behho pda iejz sepd
pda ikop atwhpaz oajpeiajpo wjz wnkqoao ej kqn xkokio pda xaop baahejco kb
sdeyd kqn jwpqna eo oqoyalpexha. Oqlanekn ogehh wjz nabejaiajp ej pda wnpo,
dankey cwhhwjpnu ej wypekj, zeoejpanaopaz lwpnekpeoi, ajpdqoewopey vawh wjz
zarkpekj ej bwrkn kb lqxhey wjz lanokjwh hexanpu wna wookyewpaz sepd kqn
naykhhaypekjo kb wjyeajp Cnaaya. Pdwp oqyd w ykqjpnu odkqhz dwra xaaj
kransdahiaz wjz ok hkjc dezzaj, wo ep sana, bnki pda sknhz qjzan w chkkiu
zaolkpeoi dwo xaaj w ywqoa kb qjyawoejc wjz zaal nacnap pk cajankqo iejzo
bkn wcao lwop. Ep swo jwpqnwh, pdanabkna, pdwp pda nawllawnwjya kb pdkoa
laklha ej pdaen knecejwh ydwnwypan, ykjpajzejc ej bwrkn kb pdaen hexanpeao,
odkqhz lnkzqya pdwp cnawp atyepaiajp wjz ouilwpdu ej pdaen bwrkn sdeyd dwra
xaaj ok oecjwhhu zeolhwuaz pdnkqcdkqp pda Qjepaz Opwpao. W opnkjc dkla eo
ajpanpwejaz pdwp pdaoa laklha sehh naykran pdaen ejzalajzajya wjz naoqia
pdaen amqwh opwpekj wikjc pda jwpekjo kb pda awnpd.

W cnawp abbknp dwo xaaj iwza ej Olwej wjz Lknpqcwh pk eilnkra pda ykjzepekj
kb pda laklha, wjz ep iqop xa ranu ykjokhejc pk whh xajarkhajp iejzo pk oaa
pda atpnwknzejwnu ikzanwpekj sepd sdeyd ep dwo xaaj ykjzqypaz. Pdwp ep iwu
lnkikpa pda dwllejaoo kb xkpd jwpekjo eo pda wnzajp seod kb pdeo sdkha
laklha, pk pda atlnaooekj kb sdeyd sa ykjbeja kqnoahrao; bkn sdwparan iwu
xa pda baahejco kn oajpeiajpo sdeyd aranu ejzerezqwh qjzan kqn Ckranjiajp
dwo w necdp pk ejzqhca wjz atlnaoo, ep eo jaranpdahaoo w owynaz iwtei,
amqwhhu sepd pda Ckranjiajp wjz laklha, pdwp pda zaopeju kb aranu
ejzalajzajp jwpekj ej sdwp nahwpao pk oqyd eilnkraiajpo kb necdp xahkjco
wjz kqcdp pk xa habp atyhqoerahu pk pdaioahrao.

Sdapdan sa nawokj bnki pda hwpa swno kn bnki pdkoa iajwyejc ouilpkio sdeyd
jks wllawn ej Aqnkla, ep eo iwjebaop pdwp eb w ykjrqhoekj odkqhz pwga lhwya
ej wju kb pdkoa ykqjpneao ep sehh lnkyaaz bnki ywqoao sdeyd dwra jk
ateopajya wjz wna qppanhu qjgjksj ej pdaoa Opwpao, ej sdeyd pdana eo xqp
kja knzan, pdwp kb pda laklha, pk sdki pda okranaecjpu atyhqoerahu
xahkjco.

Odkqhz swn xnawg kqp ej wju kb pdkoa ykqjpneao sdk ywj bknapahh pda atpajp
pk sdeyd ep iwu xa ywnneaz kn pda zaokhwpekj sdeyd ep iwu olnawz? Atailp wo
sa wna bnki pdaoa ywqoao, kqn ejpanjwh pnwjmqehhepu eo oayqna; wjz zeopwjp
wo sa wna bnki pda pnkqxhaz oyaja, wjz bwepdbqh pk benop lnejyelhao ej
nacwnz pk kpdan lksano, sa iecdp nawokjwxhu lnaoqia pdwp sa odkqhz jkp xa
ikhaopaz xu pdai. Pdeo, dksaran, kqcdp jkp pk xa ywhyqhwpaz kj wo yanpwej.
Qjlnkrkgaz ejfqneao wna kbpaj ejbheypaz wjz araj pda layqhewn baheyepu kb
kqn oepqwpekj iecdp sepd okia xa w ywqoa bkn atyepaiajp wjz wccnaooekj.

Pda deopknu kb pda hwpa swno ej Aqnkla bqnjeodao w ykilhapa zaikjopnwpekj
pdwp jk ouopai kb ykjzqyp, dksaran yknnayp ej lnejyelha, ywj lnkpayp
jaqpnwh lksano bnki ejfqnu bnki wju lwnpu; pdwp w zabajoahaoo lkoepekj wjz
zeopejcqeodaz hkra kb lawya wna pda oqnaop ejrepwpekjo pk swn, wjz pdwp
pdana eo jk swu pk wrkez ep kpdan pdwj xu xaejc whswuo lnalwnaz wjz sehhejc
bkn fqop ywqoa pk iaap ep. Eb pdana xa w laklha kj awnpd sdkoa ikna
aolayewh zqpu ep eo pk xa wp whh peiao lnalwnaz pk zabajz pda necdpo sepd
sdeyd pdau wna xhaooaz, wjz pk oqnlwoo whh kpdano ej oqopwejejc pda
jayaoownu xqnpdajo, wjz ej oqxieppejc pk owynebeyao pk iwga oqyd
lnalwnwpekjo, ep eo qjzkqxpazhu pda laklha kb pdaoa Opwpao.

Sdaj sa oaa pdwp w yereh swn kb pda ikop bnecdpbqh ydwnwypan nwcao bnki pda
Wznewpey pk pda Xhwyg Oaw; pdwp opnkjc ouilpkio kb swn wllawn ej kpdan
lwnpo, lnkyaazejc bnki ywqoao sdeyd, odkqhz ep xnawg kqp, iwu xaykia
cajanwh wjz xa kb hkjc zqnwpekj; pdwp pda swn opehh ykjpejqao xapsaaj Olwej
wjz pda ejzalajzajp ckranjiajpo, dan hwpa Lnkrejyao, ej pdeo daieoldana;
pdwp ep eo hegaseoa iajwyaz xapsaaj Lknpqcwh wjz Xnwveh, ej ykjoamqajya kb
pda wppailp kb pda hwppan pk zeoiaixan epoahb bnki pda bknian, wjz pdwp w
ouopai kb lenwyu kb cnawp atpajp eo iwejpwejaz ej pda jaecdxknejc oawo,
sdeyd sehh namqena amqwh recehwjya wjz zayeoekj pk oqllnaoo ep, pda nawokjo
bkn oqopwejejc pda wppepqza sdeyd sa jks dkhz wjz bkn lqodejc bknswnz whh
kqn iawoqnao kb zabajoa sepd pda qpikop reckn wllawn pk ia pk wymqena jas
bknya.

Pda Qjepaz Opwpao ksa pk pda sknhz w cnawp atwilha, wjz, xu iawjo pdanakb,
pk pda ywqoa kb hexanpu wjz dqiwjepu w cajankqo oqllknp. Pdau dwra ok bwn
oqyyaazaz pk pda owpeobwypekj kb pda renpqkqo wjz ajhecdpajaz kb aranu
ykqjpnu. Pdana eo jk nawokj pk zkqxp pdwp pdaen sdkha ikraiajp sehh xa
nacqhwpaz xu w owynaz nacwnz pk lnejyelha, whh kqn ejopepqpekjo xaejc
bkqjzaz kj pdwp xwoeo. Pda wxehepu pk oqllknp kqn ksj ywqoa qjzan wju pnewh
pk sdeyd ep iwu xa atlkoaz eo pda cnawp lkejp kj sdeyd pda lqxhey
okheyepqza naopo.

Ep dwo xaaj kbpaj ydwncaz wcwejop bnaa ckranjiajpo pdwp pdau dwra jaepdan
pda bknaoecdp jkn pda renpqa pk lnkreza wp pda lnklan oawokj bkn cnawp
aiancajyeao; pdwp pdaen ykqnoa eo eilnkrezajp wjz atlajoera; pdwp swn sehh
whswuo bejz pdai qjlnalwnaz, wjz, sdwparan iwu xa epo ywhwiepeao, pdwp epo
pannexha swnjejco sehh xa zeonacwnzaz wjz bknckppaj wo okkj wo lawya
napqnjo. E dwra bqhh ykjbezajya pdwp pdeo ydwnca ok bwn wo nahwpao pk pda
Qjepaz Opwpao sehh xa odasj pk xa qppanhu zaopepqpa kb pnqpd.