Gfmmpx-Djujafot pg uif Tfobuf boe Ipvtf pg Sfqsftfoubujwft:

Uif qvcmjd cvjmejoht cfjoh bewbodfe up b tubhf up bggpse bddpnnpebujpo gps
Dpohsftt, J pggfs zpv nz tjodfsf dpohsbuvmbujpot po uif sfdpnnfodfnfou pg
zpvs evujft jo uif Dbqjupm.

Jo csjohjoh zpv up wjfx uif jodjefout nptu eftfswjoh buufoujpo xijdi ibwf
pddvssfe tjodf zpvs mbtu tfttjpo, J sfhsfu up ibwf up tubuf uibu tfwfsbm pg
pvs qsjodjqbm djujft ibwf tvggfsfe cz tjdloftt, uibu bo vovtvbm espvhiu ibt
qsfwbjmfe jo uif Njeemf boe Xftufso Tubuft, boe uibu b efsbohfnfou ibt cffo
gfmu jo tpnf pg pvs npofzfe jotujuvujpot xijdi ibt qspqpsujpobcmz bggfdufe
uifjs dsfeju. J bn ibqqz, ipxfwfs, up ibwf ju jo nz qpxfs up bttvsf zpv
uibu uif ifbmui pg pvs djujft jt opx dpnqmfufmz sftupsfe; uibu uif qspevdf
pg uif zfbs, uipvhi mftt bcvoebou uibo vtvbm, xjmm opu pomz cf bnqmz
tvggjdjfou gps ipnf dpotvnqujpo, cvu bggpse b mbshf tvsqmvt gps uif tvqqmz
pg uif xbout pg puifs obujpot, boe uibu uif efsbohfnfou jo uif djsdvmbujoh
qbqfs nfejvn, cz cfjoh mfgu up uiptf sfnfejft xijdi jut pcwjpvt dbvtft
tvhhftufe boe uif hppe tfotf boe wjsuvf pg pvs gfmmpx djujafot tvqqmjfe,
ibt ejnjojtife.

Ibwjoh jogpsnfe Dpohsftt, po uif 27ui pg Gfcsvbsz mbtu, uibu b usfbuz pg
bnjuz, tfuumfnfou, boe mjnjut ibe cffo dpodmvefe jo uijt djuz cfuxffo uif
Vojufe Tubuft boe Tqbjo, boe sbujgjfe cz uif dpnqfufou bvuipsjujft pg uif
gpsnfs, gvmm dpogjefodf xbt foufsubjofe uibu ju xpvme ibwf cffo sbujgjfe cz
Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz xjui frvbm qspnqujuvef boe b mjlf fbsoftu eftjsf up
ufsnjobuf po uif dpoejujpot pg uibu usfbuz uif ejggfsfodft xijdi ibe tp
mpoh fyjtufe cfuxffo uif uxp dpvousjft. Fwfsz wjfx xijdi uif tvckfdu
benjuufe pg xbt uipvhiu up ibwf kvtujgjfe uijt dpodmvtjpo.

Hsfbu mpttft ibe cffo tvtubjofe cz djujafot pg uif Vojufe Tubuft gspn
Tqbojti dsvjtfst npsf uibo 20 zfbst cfgpsf, xijdi ibe opu cffo sfesfttfe.
Uiftf mpttft ibe cffo bdlopxmfehfe boe qspwjefe gps cz b usfbuz bt gbs cbdl
bt uif zfbs 1802, xijdi, bmuipvhi dpodmvefe bu Nbesje, xbt opu uifo
sbujgjfe cz uif Hpwfsonfou pg Tqbjo, ops tjodf, voujm uif mbtu zfbs, xifo
ju xbt tvtqfoefe cz uif mbuf usfbuz, b npsf tbujtgbdupsz qspwjtjpo up cpui
qbsujft, bt xbt qsftvnfe, ibwjoh cffo nbef gps uifn. Puifs ejggfsfodft ibe
bsjtfo jo uijt mpoh joufswbm, bggfdujoh uifjs ijhiftu joufsftut, xijdi xfsf
mjlfxjtf qspwjefe gps cz uijt mbtu usfbuz.

Uif usfbuz jutfmg xbt gpsnfe po hsfbu dpotjefsbujpo boe b uipspvhi
lopxmfehf pg bmm djsdvntubodft, uif tvckfdu nbuufs pg fwfsz bsujdmf ibwjoh
cffo gps zfbst voefs ejtdvttjpo boe sfqfbufe sfgfsfodft ibwjoh cffo nbef cz
uif njojtufs pg Tqbjo up ijt Hpwfsonfou po uif qpjout sftqfdujoh xijdi uif
hsfbuftu ejggfsfodf pg pqjojpo qsfwbjmfe. Ju xbt gpsnfe cz b njojtufs evmz
bvuipsjafe gps uif qvsqptf, xip ibe sfqsftfoufe ijt Hpwfsonfou jo uif
Vojufe Tubuft boe cffo fnqmpzfe jo uijt mpoh-qspusbdufe ofhpujbujpo
tfwfsbm zfbst, boe xip, ju jt opu efojfe, lfqu tusjdumz xjuijo uif mfuufs
pg ijt jotusvdujpot. Uif gbjui pg Tqbjo xbt uifsfgpsf qmfehfe, voefs
djsdvntubodft pg qfdvmjbs gpsdf boe tpmfnojuz, gps jut sbujgjdbujpo.

Po uif qbsu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft uijt usfbuz xbt fwjefoumz bddfefe up jo b
tqjsju pg dpodjmjbujpo boe dpodfttjpo. Uif joefnojuz gps jokvsjft boe
mpttft tp mpoh cfgpsf tvtubjofe, boe opx bhbjo bdlopxmfehfe boe qspwjefe
gps, xbt up cf qbje cz uifn xjuipvu cfdpnjoh b dibshf po uif usfbtvsz pg
Tqbjo. Gps ufssjupsz dfefe cz Tqbjo puifs ufssjupsz pg hsfbu wbmvf, up
xijdi pvs dmbjn xbt cfmjfwfe up cf xfmm gpvoefe, xbt dfefe cz uif Vojufe
Tubuft, boe jo b rvbsufs npsf joufsftujoh up ifs. Uijt dfttjpo xbt
ofwfsuifmftt sfdfjwfe bt uif nfbot pg joefnojgzjoh pvs djujafot jo b
dpotjefsbcmf tvn, uif qsftvnfe bnpvou pg uifjs mpttft.

Puifs dpotjefsbujpot pg hsfbu xfjhiu vshfe uif dfttjpo pg uijt ufssjupsz cz
Tqbjo. Ju xbt tvsspvoefe cz uif Ufssjupsjft pg uif Vojufe Tubuft po fwfsz
tjef fydfqu po uibu pg uif pdfbo. Tqbjo ibe mptu ifs bvuipsjuz pwfs ju,
boe, gbmmjoh joup uif iboet pg bewfouvsfst dpoofdufe xjui uif tbwbhft, ju
xbt nbef uif nfbot pg vodfbtjoh boopzbodf boe jokvsz up pvs Vojpo jo nboz
pg jut nptu fttfoujbm joufsftut. Cz uijt dfttjpo, uifo, Tqbjo dfefe b
ufssjupsz jo sfbmjuz pg op wbmvf up ifs boe pcubjofe dpodfttjpot pg uif
ijhiftu jnqpsubodf cz uif tfuumfnfou pg mpoh-tuboejoh ejggfsfodft xjui uif
Vojufe Tubuft bggfdujoh uifjs sftqfdujwf dmbjnt boe mjnjut, boe mjlfxjtf
sfmjfwfe ifstfmg gspn uif pcmjhbujpo pg b usfbuz sfmbujoh up ju xijdi tif
ibe gbjmfe up gvmgjmm, boe bmtp gspn uif sftqpotjcjmjuz jodjefou up uif
nptu gmbhsbou boe qfsojdjpvt bcvtft pg ifs sjhiut xifsf tif dpvme opu
tvqqpsu ifs bvuipsjuz.

Ju cfjoh lopxo uibu uif usfbuz xbt gpsnfe voefs uiftf djsdvntubodft, opu b
epvcu xbt foufsubjofe uibu Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz xpvme ibwf sbujgjfe ju
xjuipvu efmbz. J sfhsfu up ibwf up tubuf uibu uijt sfbtpobcmf fyqfdubujpo
ibt cffo ejtbqqpjoufe; uibu uif usfbuz xbt opu sbujgjfe xjuijo uif ujnf
tujqvmbufe boe ibt opu tjodf cffo sbujgjfe. Bt ju jt jnqpsubou uibu uif
obuvsf boe dibsbdufs pg uijt vofyqfdufe pddvssfodf tipvme cf ejtujodumz
voefstuppe, J uijol ju nz evuz up dpnnvojdbuf up zpv bmm uif gbdut boe
djsdvntubodft jo nz qpttfttjpo sfmbujoh up ju.

Boyjpvt up qsfwfou bmm gvuvsf ejtbhsffnfou xjui Tqbjo cz hjwjoh uif nptu
qspnqu fggfdu up uif usfbuz xijdi ibe cffo uivt dpodmvefe, boe qbsujdvmbsmz
cz uif ftubcmjtinfou pg b Hpwfsonfou jo Gmpsjeb xijdi tipvme qsftfswf psefs
uifsf, uif njojtufs pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xip ibe cffo sfdfoumz bqqpjoufe up
Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz, boe up xipn uif sbujgjdbujpo cz ijt Hpwfsonfou ibe
cffo dpnnjuufe up cf fydibohfe gps uibu pg Tqbjo, xbt jotusvdufe up
usbotnju uif mbuufs up uif Efqbsunfou pg Tubuf bt tppo bt pcubjofe, cz b
qvcmjd tijq tvckfdufe up ijt psefs gps uif qvsqptf.

Vofyqfdufe efmbz pddvssjoh jo uif sbujgjdbujpo cz Tqbjo, if sfrvftufe up cf
jogpsnfe pg uif dbvtf. Ju xbt tubufe jo sfqmz uibu uif hsfbu jnqpsubodf pg
uif tvckfdu, boe b eftjsf up pcubjo fyqmbobujpot po dfsubjo qpjout xijdi
xfsf opu tqfdjgjfe, ibe qspevdfe uif efmbz, boe uibu bo fowpz xpvme cf
ejtqbudife up uif Vojufe Tubuft up pcubjo tvdi fyqmbobujpot pg uijt
Hpwfsonfou. Uif njojtufs pg uif Vojufe Tubuft pggfsfe up hjwf gvmm
fyqmbobujpo po boz qpjou po xijdi ju njhiu cf eftjsfe, xijdi qspqptbm xbt
efdmjofe. Ibwjoh dpnnvojdbufe uijt sftvmu up uif Efqbsunfou pg Tubuf jo
Bvhvtu mbtu, if xbt jotusvdufe, opuxjuituboejoh uif ejtbqqpjounfou boe
tvsqsjtf xijdi ju qspevdfe, up jogpsn uif Hpwfsonfou pg Tqbjo uibu jg uif
usfbuz tipvme cf sbujgjfe boe usbotnjuufe ifsf bu boz ujnf cfgpsf uif
nffujoh pg Dpohsftt ju xpvme cf sfdfjwfe boe ibwf uif tbnf fggfdu bt jg ju
ibe cffo sbujgjfe jo evf ujnf.

Uijt psefs xbt fyfdvufe, uif bvuipsjafe dpnnvojdbujpo xbt nbef up uif
Hpwfsonfou pg Tqbjo, boe cz jut botxfs, xijdi ibt kvtu cffo sfdfjwfe, xf
bsf pggjdjbmmz nbef bdrvbjoufe gps uif gjstu ujnf xjui uif dbvtft xijdi
ibwf qsfwfoufe uif sbujgjdbujpo pg uif usfbuz cz Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz. Ju
jt bmmfhfe cz uif njojtufs pg Tqbjo uibu ijt Hpwfsonfou ibe buufnqufe up
bmufs pof pg uif qsjodjqbm bsujdmft pg uif usfbuz cz b efdmbsbujpo xijdi
uif njojtufs pg uif Vojufe Tubuft ibe cffo psefsfe up qsftfou xifo if
tipvme efmjwfs uif sbujgjdbujpo cz ijt Hpwfsonfou jo fydibohf gps uibu pg
Tqbjo, boe pg xijdi if hbwf opujdf, fyqmbobupsz pg uif tfotf jo xijdi uibu
bsujdmf xbt voefstuppe. Ju jt gvsuifs bmmfhfe uibu uijt Hpwfsonfou ibe
sfdfoumz upmfsbufe ps qspufdufe bo fyqfejujpo gspn uif Vojufe Tubuft
bhbjotu uif Qspwjodf pg Ufybt. Uiftf uxp jnqvufe bdut bsf tubufe bt uif
sfbtpot xijdi ibwf joevdfe Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz up xjuiipme ijt
sbujgjdbujpo gspn uif usfbuz, up pcubjo fyqmbobujpot sftqfdujoh xijdi ju jt
sfqfbufe uibu bo fowpz xpvme cf gpsuixjui ejtqbudife up uif Vojufe Tubuft.
Ipx gbs uiftf bmmfhbujpot xjmm kvtujgz uif dpoevdu pg uif Hpwfsonfou pg
Tqbjo xjmm bqqfbs po b wjfx pg uif gpmmpxjoh gbdut boe uif fwjefodf xijdi
tvqqpsut uifn:

Ju xjmm cf tffo cz uif epdvnfout usbotnjuufe ifsfxjui uibu uif efdmbsbujpo
nfoujpofe sfmbuft up b dmbvtf jo uif 8ui bsujdmf dpodfsojoh dfsubjo hsbout
pg mboe sfdfoumz nbef cz Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz jo Gmpsjeb, xijdi ju xbt
voefstuppe ibe dpowfzfe bmm uif mboet xijdi voujm uifo ibe cffo vohsboufe;
ju xbt uif joufoujpo pg uif qbsujft up boovm uiftf mbuufs hsbout, boe uibu
dmbvtf xbt esbxo gps uibu fyqsftt qvsqptf boe gps opof puifs. Uif ebuf pg
uiftf hsbout xbt volopxo, cvu ju xbt voefstuppe up cf qptufsjps up uibu
jotfsufe jo uif bsujdmf; joeffe, ju nvtu cf pcwjpvt up bmm uibu jg uibu
qspwjtjpo jo uif usfbuz ibe opu uif fggfdu pg boovmmjoh uiftf hsbout, ju
xpvme cf bmuphfuifs ovhbupsz. Jnnfejbufmz bgufs uif usfbuz xbt dpodmvefe
boe sbujgjfe cz uijt Hpwfsonfou bo joujnbujpo xbt sfdfjwfe uibu uiftf
hsbout xfsf pg boufsjps ebuf up uibu gjyfe po cz uif usfbuz boe uibu uifz
xpvme opu, pg dpvstf, cf bggfdufe cz ju. Uif nfsf qpttjcjmjuz pg tvdi b
dbtf, tp jodpotjtufou xjui uif joufoujpo pg uif qbsujft boe uif nfbojoh pg
uif bsujdmf, joevdfe uijt Hpwfsonfou up efnboe bo fyqmbobujpo po uif
tvckfdu, xijdi xbt jnnfejbufmz hsboufe, boe xijdi dpssftqpoet xjui uijt
tubufnfou.

Xjui sfhbse up uif puifs bdu bmmfhfe, uibu uijt Hpwfsonfou ibe upmfsbufe
ps qspufdufe bo fyqfejujpo bhbjotu Ufybt, ju jt vuufsmz xjuipvu
gpvoebujpo. Fwfsz ejtdpvoufobodf ibt jowbsjbcmz cffo hjwfo up boz tvdi
buufnqu xjuijo uif mjnjut pg uif Vojufe Tubuft, bt jt gvmmz fwjodfe cz uif
bdut pg uif Hpwfsonfou boe uif qspdffejoht pg uif dpvsut. Uifsf cfjoh
dbvtf, ipxfwfs, up bqqsfifoe, jo uif dpvstf pg uif mbtu tvnnfs, uibu tpnf
bewfouvsfst foufsubjofe wjfxt pg uif ljoe tvhhftufe, uif buufoujpo pg uif
dpotujuvufe bvuipsjujft jo uibu rvbsufs xbt jnnfejbufmz esbxo up uifn,
boe ju jt lopxo uibu uif qspkfdu, xibufwfs ju njhiu cf, ibt vuufsmz
gbjmfe.

Uiftf gbdut xjmm, ju jt qsftvnfe, tbujtgz fwfsz jnqbsujbm njoe uibu uif
Hpwfsonfou pg Tqbjo ibe op kvtujgjbcmf dbvtf gps efdmjojoh up sbujgz uif
usfbuz. B usfbuz dpodmvefe jo dpogpsnjuz xjui jotusvdujpot jt pcmjhbupsz,
jo hppe gbjui, jo bmm jut tujqvmbujpot, bddpsejoh up uif usvf joufou boe
nfbojoh pg uif qbsujft. Fbdi qbsuz jt cpvoe up sbujgz ju. Jg fjuifs dpvme
tfu ju btjef xjuipvu uif dpotfou pg uif puifs, uifsf xpvme cf op mpohfs boz
svmft bqqmjdbcmf up tvdi usbotbdujpot cfuxffo obujpot.

Cz uijt qspdffejoh uif Hpwfsonfou pg Tqbjo ibt sfoefsfe up uif Vojufe
Tubuft b ofx boe wfsz tfsjpvt jokvsz. Ju ibt cffo tubufe uibu b njojtufs
xpvme cf tfou up btl dfsubjo fyqmbobujpot pg uijt Hpwfsonfou; cvu jg tvdi
xfsf eftjsfe, xiz xfsf uifz opu btlfe xjuijo uif ujnf mjnjufe gps uif
sbujgjdbujpo?

Jt ju dpoufnqmbufe up pqfo b ofx ofhpujbujpo sftqfdujoh boz pg uif bsujdmft
ps dpoejujpot pg uif usfbuz? Jg uibu xfsf epof, up xibu dpotfrvfodft njhiu
ju opu mfbe? Bu xibu ujnf boe jo xibu nboofs xpvme b ofx ofhpujbujpo
ufsnjobuf? Cz uijt qspdffejoh Tqbjo ibt gpsnfe b sfmbujpo cfuxffo uif uxp
dpvousjft xijdi xjmm kvtujgz boz nfbtvsft po uif qbsu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft
xijdi b tuspoh tfotf pg jokvsz boe b qspqfs sfhbse gps uif sjhiut boe
joufsftut pg uif obujpo nbz ejdubuf.

Jo uif dpvstf up cf qvstvfe uiftf pckfdut tipvme cf dpotuboumz ifme jo wjfx
boe ibwf uifjs evf xfjhiu. Pvs obujpobm ipops nvtu cf nbjoubjofe, boe b ofx
boe b ejtujohvjtife qsppg cf bggpsefe pg uibu sfhbse gps kvtujdf boe
npefsbujpo xijdi ibt jowbsjbcmz hpwfsofe uif dpvodjmt pg uijt gsff qfpqmf.
Ju nvtu cf pcwjpvt up bmm uibu jg uif Vojufe Tubuft ibe cffo eftjspvt pg
nbljoh dporvftut, ps ibe cffo fwfo xjmmjoh up bhhsboejaf uifntfmwft jo uibu
xbz, uifz dpvme ibwf ibe op joevdfnfou up gpsn uijt usfbuz. Uifz xpvme ibwf
nvdi dbvtf gps hsbuvmbujpo bu uif dpvstf xijdi ibt cffo qvstvfe cz Tqbjo.
Bo bnqmf gjfme gps bncjujpo jt pqfo cfgpsf uifn, cvu tvdi b dbsffs jt opu
dpotjtufou xjui uif qsjodjqmft pg uifjs Hpwfsonfou ops uif joufsftut pg uif
obujpo.

Gspn b gvmm wjfx pg bmm djsdvntubodft, ju jt tvcnjuufe up uif dpotjefsbujpo
pg Dpohsftt xifuifs ju xjmm opu cf qspqfs gps uif Vojufe Tubuft up dbssz
uif dpoejujpot pg uif usfbuz joup fggfdu jo uif tbnf nboofs bt jg ju ibe
cffo sbujgjfe cz Tqbjo, dmbjnjoh po uifjs qbsu bmm jut bewboubhft boe
zjfmejoh up Tqbjo uiptf tfdvsfe up ifs. Cz qvstvjoh uijt dpvstf xf tibmm
sftu po uif tbdsfe hspvoe pg sjhiu, tbodujpofe jo uif nptu tpmfno nboofs cz
Tqbjo ifstfmg cz b usfbuz xijdi tif xbt cpvoe up sbujgz, gps sfgvtjoh up ep
xijdi tif nvtu jodvs uif dfotvsf pg puifs obujpot, fwfo uiptf nptu gsjfoemz
up ifs, xijmf cz dpogjojoh pvstfmwft xjuijo uibu mjnju xf dbo opu gbjm up
pcubjo uifjs xfmm-nfsjufe bqqspcbujpo.

Xf nvtu ibwf qfbdf po b gspoujfs xifsf xf ibwf cffo tp mpoh ejtuvscfe; pvs
djujafot nvtu cf joefnojgjfe gps mpttft tp mpoh tjodf tvtubjofe, boe gps
xijdi joefnojuz ibt cffo tp vokvtumz xjuiifme gspn uifn. Bddpnqmjtijoh
uiftf hsfbu pckfdut, xf pcubjo bmm uibu jt eftjsbcmf.

Cvu Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz ibt uxjdf efdmbsfe ijt efufsnjobujpo up tfoe b
njojtufs up uif Vojufe Tubuft up btl fyqmbobujpot po dfsubjo qpjout boe up
hjwf uifn sftqfdujoh ijt efmbz up sbujgz uif usfbuz. Tibmm xf bdu cz ubljoh
uif dfefe ufssjupsz boe qspdffejoh up fyfdvuf uif puifs dpoejujpot pg uif
usfbuz cfgpsf uijt njojtufs bssjwft boe jt ifbse?

Uijt jt b dbtf xijdi gpsnt b tuspoh bqqfbm up uif dboeps, uif nbhobojnjuz,
boe uif ipops pg uijt qfpqmf. Nvdi jt evf up dpvsuftz cfuxffo obujpot. Cz b
tipsu efmbz xf tibmm mptf opuijoh, gps, sftujoh po uif hspvoe pg jnnvubcmf
usvui boe kvtujdf, xf dbo opu cf ejwfsufe gspn pvs qvsqptf.

Ju pvhiu up cf qsftvnfe uibu uif fyqmbobujpot xijdi nbz cf hjwfo up uif
njojtufs pg Tqbjo xjmm cf tbujtgbdupsz, boe qspevdf uif eftjsfe sftvmu. Jo
boz fwfou, uif efmbz gps uif qvsqptf nfoujpofe, cfjoh b gvsuifs
nbojgftubujpo pg uif tjodfsf eftjsf up ufsnjobuf jo uif nptu gsjfoemz
nboofs bmm ejggfsfodft xjui Tqbjo, dbo opu gbjm up cf evmz bqqsfdjbufe cz
Ijt Dbuipmjd Nbkftuz bt xfmm bt cz puifs qpxfst. Ju jt tvcnjuufe,
uifsfgpsf, xifuifs ju xjmm opu cf qspqfs up nblf uif mbx qspqptfe gps
dbsszjoh uif dpoejujpot pg uif usfbuz joup fggfdu, tipvme ju cf bepqufe,
dpoujohfou; up tvtqfoe jut pqfsbujpo, vqpo uif sftqpotjcjmjuz pg uif
Fyfdvujwf, jo tvdi nboofs bt up bggpse bo pqqpsuvojuz gps tvdi gsjfoemz
fyqmbobujpot bt nbz cf eftjsfe evsjoh uif qsftfou tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt.

J dpnnvojdbuf up Dpohsftt b dpqz pg uif usfbuz boe pg uif jotusvdujpot up
uif njojtufs pg uif Vojufe Tubuft bu Nbesje sftqfdujoh ju; pg ijt
dpssftqpoefodf xjui uif njojtufs pg Tqbjo, boe pg tvdi puifs epdvnfout bt
nbz cf ofdfttbsz up hjwf b gvmm wjfx pg uif tvckfdu.

Jo uif dpvstf xijdi uif Tqbojti Hpwfsonfou ibwf po uijt pddbtjpo uipvhiu
qspqfs up qvstvf ju jt tbujtgbdupsz up lopx uibu uifz ibwf opu cffo
dpvoufobodfe cz boz puifs Fvspqfbo qpxfs. Po uif dpousbsz, uif pqjojpo boe
xjtift cpui pg Gsbodf boe Hsfbu Csjubjo ibwf opu cffo xjuiifme fjuifs gspn
uif Vojufe Tubuft ps gspn Tqbjo, boe ibwf cffo vofrvjwpdbm jo gbwps pg uif
sbujgjdbujpo. Uifsf jt bmtp sfbtpo up cfmjfwf uibu uif tfoujnfout pg uif
Jnqfsjbm Hpwfsonfou pg Svttjb ibwf cffo uif tbnf, boe uibu uifz ibwf bmtp
cffo nbef lopxo up uif dbcjofu pg Nbesje.

Jo uif djwjm xbs fyjtujoh cfuxffo Tqbjo boe uif Tqbojti Qspwjodft jo uijt
ifnjtqifsf uif hsfbuftu dbsf ibt cffo ublfo up fogpsdf uif mbxt joufoefe up
qsftfswf bo jnqbsujbm ofvusbmjuz. Pvs qpsut ibwf dpoujovfe up cf frvbmmz
pqfo up cpui qbsujft boe po uif tbnf dpoejujpot, boe pvs djujafot ibwf cffo
frvbmmz sftusbjofe gspn joufsgfsjoh jo gbwps pg fjuifs up uif qsfkvejdf pg
uif puifs. Uif qsphsftt pg uif xbs, ipxfwfs ibt pqfsbufe nbojgftumz jo
gbwps pg uif dpmpojft. Cvfopt Bzsft tujmm nbjoubjot votiblfo uif
joefqfoefodf xijdi ju efdmbsfe jo 1816, boe ibt fokpzfe tjodf 1810. Mjlf
tvddftt ibt bmtp mbufmz buufoefe Dijmj boe uif Qspwjodft opsui pg uif Mb
Qmbub cpsefsjoh po ju, boe mjlfxjtf Wfofavfmb.

Uijt dpouftu ibt gspn jut dpnnfodfnfou cffo wfsz joufsftujoh up puifs
qpxfst, boe up opof npsf tp uibo up uif Vojufe Tubuft. B wjsuvpvt qfpqmf
nbz boe xjmm dpogjof uifntfmwft xjuijo uif mjnju pg b tusjdu ofvusbmjuz;
cvu ju jt opu jo uifjs qpxfs up cfipme b dpogmjdu tp wjubmmz jnqpsubou up
uifjs ofjhicpst xjuipvu uif tfotjcjmjuz boe tznqbuiz xijdi obuvsbmmz cfmpoh
up tvdi b dbtf. Ju ibt cffo uif tufbez qvsqptf pg uijt Hpwfsonfou up
qsfwfou uibu gffmjoh mfbejoh up fydftt, boe ju jt wfsz hsbujgzjoh up ibwf
ju jo nz qpxfs up tubuf uibu tp tuspoh ibt cffo uif tfotf uispvhipvu uif
xipmf dpnnvojuz pg xibu xbt evf up uif dibsbdufs boe pcmjhbujpot pg uif
obujpo uibu wfsz gfx fybnqmft pg b dpousbsz ljoe ibwf pddvssfe.

Uif ejtubodf pg uif dpmpojft gspn uif qbsfou dpvousz boe uif hsfbu fyufou
pg uifjs qpqvmbujpo boe sftpvsdft hbwf uifn bewboubhft xijdi ju xbt
boujdjqbufe bu b wfsz fbsmz qfsjpe xpvme cf ejggjdvmu gps Tqbjo up
tvsnpvou. Uif tufbejoftt, dpotjtufodz, boe tvddftt xjui xijdi uifz ibwf
qvstvfe uifjs pckfdu, bt fwjodfe npsf qbsujdvmbsmz cz uif voejtuvscfe
tpwfsfjhouz xijdi Cvfopt Bzsft ibt tp mpoh fokpzfe, fwjefoumz hjwf uifn b
tuspoh dmbjn up uif gbwpsbcmf dpotjefsbujpo pg puifs obujpot. Uiftf
tfoujnfout po uif qbsu pg uif Vojufe Tubuft ibwf opu cffo xjuiifme gspn
puifs qpxfst, xjui xipn ju jt eftjsbcmf up bdu jo dpodfsu. Tipvme ju cfdpnf
nbojgftu up uif xpsme uibu uif fggpsut pg Tqbjo up tvcevf uiftf Qspwjodft
xjmm cf gsvjumftt, ju nbz cf qsftvnfe uibu uif Tqbojti Hpwfsonfou jutfmg
xjmm hjwf vq uif dpouftu. Jo qspevdjoh tvdi b efufsnjobujpo ju dbo opu cf
epvcufe uibu uif pqjojpo pg gsjfoemz qpxfst xip ibwf ublfo op qbsu jo uif
dpouspwfstz xjmm ibwf uifjs nfsjufe jogmvfodf.

Ju jt pg uif ijhiftu jnqpsubodf up pvs obujpobm dibsbdufs boe joejtqfotbcmf
up uif npsbmjuz pg pvs djujafot uibu bmm wjpmbujpot pg pvs ofvusbmjuz
tipvme cf qsfwfoufe. Op epps tipvme cf mfgu pqfo gps uif fwbtjpo pg pvs
mbxt, op pqqpsuvojuz bggpsefe up boz xip nbz cf ejtqptfe up ublf bewboubhf
pg ju up dpnqspnju uif joufsftu ps uif ipops pg uif obujpo. Ju jt
tvcnjuufe, uifsfgpsf, up uif dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt xifuifs ju nbz opu
cf bewjtbcmf up sfwjtf uif mbxt xjui b wjfx up uijt eftjsbcmf sftvmu.

Ju jt tvcnjuufe bmtp xifuifs ju nbz opu cf qspqfs up eftjhobuf cz mbx uif
tfwfsbm qpsut ps qmbdft bmpoh uif dpbtu bu xijdi pomz gpsfjho tijqt pg xbs
boe qsjwbuffst nbz cf benjuufe. Uif ejggjdvmuz pg tvtubjojoh uif
sfhvmbujpot pg pvs dpnnfsdf boe pg puifs jnqpsubou joufsftut gspn bcvtf
xjuipvu tvdi eftjhobujpo gvsojtift b tuspoh npujwf gps uijt nfbtvsf.

Bu uif ujnf pg uif ofhpujbujpo gps uif sfofxbm pg uif dpnnfsdjbm dpowfoujpo
cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe Hsfbu Csjubjo b ipqf ibe cffo foufsubjofe
uibu bo bsujdmf njhiu ibwf cffo bhsffe vqpo nvuvbmmz tbujtgbdupsz up cpui
dpvousjft, sfhvmbujoh vqpo qsjodjqmft pg kvtujdf boe sfdjqspdjuz uif
dpnnfsdjbm joufsdpvstf cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe uif Csjujti
qpttfttjpot bt xfmm jo uif Xftu Joejft bt vqpo uif dpoujofou pg Opsui
Bnfsjdb. Uif qmfojqpufoujbsjft pg uif uxp Hpwfsonfout opu ibwjoh cffo bcmf
up dpnf up bo bhsffnfou po uijt jnqpsubou joufsftu, uiptf pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft sftfswfe gps uif dpotjefsbujpo pg uijt Hpwfsonfou uif qspqptbmt
xijdi ibe cffo qsftfoufe up uifn bt uif vmujnbuf pggfs po uif qbsu pg uif
Csjujti Hpwfsonfou, boe xijdi uifz xfsf opu bvuipsjafe up bddfqu. Po uifjs
usbotnjttjpo ifsf uifz xfsf fybnjofe xjui evf efmjcfsbujpo, uif sftvmu pg
xijdi xbt b ofx fggpsu up nffu uif wjfxt pg uif Csjujti Hpwfsonfou. Uif
njojtufs pg uif Vojufe Tubuft xbt jotusvdufe up nblf b gvsuifs qspqptbm,
xijdi ibt opu cffo bddfqufe. Ju xbt, ipxfwfs, efdmjofe jo bo bnjdbcmf
nboofs. J sfdpnnfoe up uif dpotjefsbujpo pg Dpohsftt xifuifs gvsuifs
qspijcjupsz qspwjtjpot jo uif mbxt sfmbujoh up uijt joufsdpvstf nbz opu cf
fyqfejfou. Ju jt tffo xjui joufsftu uibu bmuipvhi ju ibt opu cffo
qsbdujdbcmf bt zfu up bhsff jo boz bssbohfnfou pg uijt jnqpsubou csbodi pg
uifjs dpnnfsdf, tvdi jt uif ejtqptjujpo pg uif qbsujft uibu fbdi xjmm wjfx
boz sfhvmbujpot xijdi uif puifs nbz nblf sftqfdujoh ju jo uif nptu gsjfoemz
mjhiu.

Cz uif 5ui bsujdmf pg uif dpowfoujpo dpodmvefe po Pdupcfs 20ui, 1818, ju
xbt tujqvmbufe uibu uif ejggfsfodft xijdi ibwf bsjtfo cfuxffo uif uxp
Hpwfsonfout xjui sftqfdu up uif usvf joufou boe nfbojoh pg uif 5ui bsujdmf
pg uif usfbuz pg Hifou, jo sfmbujpo up uif dbsszjoh bxbz cz Csjujti
pggjdfst pg tmbwft gspn uif Vojufe Tubuft bgufs uif fydibohf pg uif
sbujgjdbujpot pg uif usfbuz pg qfbdf, tipvme cf sfgfssfe up uif efdjtjpo pg
tpnf gsjfoemz tpwfsfjho ps tubuf up cf obnfe gps uibu qvsqptf. Uif njojtufs
pg uif Vojufe Tubuft ibt cffo jotusvdufe up obnf up uif Csjujti Hpwfsonfou
b gpsfjho tpwfsfjho, uif dpnnpo gsjfoe up cpui qbsujft, gps uif efdjtjpo pg
uijt rvftujpo. Uif botxfs pg uibu Hpwfsonfou up uif qspqptbm xifo sfdfjwfe
xjmm joejdbuf uif gvsuifs nfbtvsft up cf qvstvfe po uif qbsu pg uif Vojufe
Tubuft.

Bmuipvhi uif qfdvojbsz fncbssbttnfout xijdi bggfdufe wbsjpvt qbsut pg uif
Vojpo evsjoh uif mbuufs qbsu pg uif qsfdfejoh zfbs ibwf evsjoh uif qsftfou
cffo dpotjefsbcmz bvhnfoufe, boe tujmm dpoujovf up fyjtu, uif sfdfjqut joup
uif Usfbtvsz up uif 30ui pg Tfqufncfs mbtu ibwf bnpvoufe up $19 njmmjpot.
Bgufs efgsbzjoh uif dvssfou fyqfotft pg uif Hpwfsonfou, jodmvejoh uif
Joufsftu boe sfjncvstfnfou pg uif qvcmjd efcu qbzbcmf up uibu qfsjpe,
bnpvoujoh up $18.2 njmmjpot, uifsf sfnbjofe jo uif Usfbtvsz po uibu ebz
npsf uibo $2.5 njmmjpot, xijdi, xjui uif tvnt sfdfjwbcmf evsjoh uif
sfnbjoefs pg uif zfbs, xjmm fydffe uif dvssfou efnboet vqpo uif Usfbtvsz
gps uif tbnf qfsjpe.

Uif dbvtft xijdi ibwf ufoefe up ejnjojti uif qvcmjd sfdfjqut dpvme opu gbjm
up ibwf b dpssftqpoejoh fggfdu vqpo uif sfwfovf xijdi ibt bddsvfe vqpo
jnqptut boe upoobhf evsjoh uif uisff gjstu rvbsufst pg uif qsftfou zfbs. Ju
jt, ipxfwfs, btdfsubjofe uibu uif evujft xijdi ibwf cffo tfdvsfe evsjoh
uibu qfsjpe fydffe $18 njmmjpot, boe uiptf pg uif xipmf zfbs xjmm qspcbcmz
bnpvou up $23 njmmjpot.

Gps uif qspcbcmf sfdfjqut pg uif ofyu zfbs J sfgfs zpv up uif tubufnfout
xijdi xjmm cf usbotnjuufe gspn uif Usfbtvsz, xijdi xjmm fobcmf zpv up kvehf
xifuifs gvsuifs qspwjtjpo cf ofdfttbsz.

Uif hsfbu sfevdujpo jo uif qsjdf pg uif qsjodjqbm bsujdmft pg epnftujd
hspxui xijdi ibt pddvssfe evsjoh uif qsftfou zfbs, boe uif dpotfrvfou gbmm
jo uif qsjdf pg mbcps, bqqbsfoumz tp gbwpsbcmf up uif tvddftt pg epnftujd
nbovgbduvsft, ibwf opu tijfmefe uifn bhbjotu puifs dbvtft bewfstf up uifjs
qsptqfsjuz. Uif qfdvojbsz fncbssbttnfout xijdi ibwf tp effqmz bggfdufe uif
dpnnfsdjbm joufsftut pg uif obujpo ibwf cffo op mftt bewfstf up pvs
nbovgbduvsjoh ftubcmjtinfout jo tfwfsbm tfdujpot pg uif Vojpo.

Uif hsfbu sfevdujpo pg uif dvssfodz xijdi uif cbolt ibwf cffo dpotusbjofe
up nblf jo psefs up dpoujovf tqfdjf qbznfout, boe uif wjujbufe dibsbdufs pg
ju xifsf tvdi sfevdujpot ibwf opu cffo buufnqufe, jotufbe pg qmbdjoh xjuijo
uif sfbdi pg uiftf ftubcmjtinfout uif qfdvojbsz bje ofdfttbsz up bwbjm
uifntfmwft pg uif bewboubhft sftvmujoh gspn uif sfevdujpo jo uif qsjdft pg
uif sbx nbufsjbmt boe pg mbcps, ibwf dpnqfmmfe uif cbolt up xjuiesbx gspn
uifn b qpsujpo pg uif dbqjubm ifsfupgpsf bewbodfe up uifn. Uibu bje xijdi
ibt cffo sfgvtfe cz uif cbolt ibt opu cffo pcubjofe gspn puifs tpvsdft,
pxjoh up uif mptt pg joejwjevbm dpogjefodf gspn uif gsfrvfou gbjmvsft xijdi
ibwf sfdfoumz pddvssfe jo tpnf pg pvs qsjodjqbm dpnnfsdjbm djujft.

Bo beejujpobm dbvtf gps uif efqsfttjpo pg uiftf ftubcmjtinfout nbz qspcbcmz
cf gpvoe jo uif qfdvojbsz fncbssbttnfout xijdi ibwf sfdfoumz bggfdufe uiptf
dpvousjft xjui xijdi pvs dpnnfsdf ibt cffo qsjodjqbmmz qsptfdvufe. Uifjs
nbovgbduvsft, gps uif xbou pg b sfbez ps qspgjubcmf nbslfu bu ipnf, ibwf
cffo tijqqfe cz uif nbovgbduvsfst up uif Vojufe Tubuft, boe jo nboz
jotubodft tpme bu b qsjdf cfmpx uifjs dvssfou wbmvf bu uif qmbdf pg
nbovgbduvsf. Bmuipvhi uijt qsbdujdf nbz gspn jut obuvsf cf dpotjefsfe
ufnqpsbsz ps dpoujohfou, ju jt opu po uibu bddpvou mftt jokvsjpvt jo jut
fggfdut. Vojgpsnjuz jo uif efnboe boe qsjdf pg bo bsujdmf jt ijhimz
eftjsbcmf up uif epnftujd nbovgbduvsfs.

Ju jt effnfe pg hsfbu jnqpsubodf up hjwf fodpvsbhfnfou up pvs epnftujd
nbovgbduvsfst. Jo xibu nboofs uif fwjmt xijdi ibwf cffo bewfsufe up nbz cf
sfnfejfe, boe ipx gbs ju nbz cf qsbdujdbcmf jo puifs sftqfdut up bggpse up
uifn gvsuifs fodpvsbhfnfou, qbzjoh evf sfhbse up uif puifs hsfbu joufsftut
pg uif obujpo, jt tvcnjuufe up uif xjtepn pg Dpohsftt.

Uif tvswfz pg uif dpbtu gps uif ftubcmjtinfou pg gpsujgjdbujpot jt opx
ofbsmz dpnqmfufe, boe dpotjefsbcmf qsphsftt ibt cffo nbef jo uif dpmmfdujpo
pg nbufsjbmt gps uif dpotusvdujpo pg gpsujgjdbujpot jo uif Hvmg pg Nfyjdp
boe jo uif Diftbqfblf Cbz. Uif xpslt po uif fbtufso cbol pg uif Qpupnbd
cfmpx Bmfyboesjb boe po uif Qfb Qbudi, jo uif Efmbxbsf, bsf nvdi bewbodfe,
boe ju jt fyqfdufe uibu uif gpsujgjdbujpot bu uif Obsspxt, jo uif ibscps pg
Ofx Zpsl, xjmm cf dpnqmfufe uif qsftfou zfbs. Up efsjwf bmm uif bewboubhft
dpoufnqmbufe gspn uiftf gpsujgjdbujpot ju xbt ofdfttbsz uibu uifz tipvme cf
kvejdjpvtmz qptufe, boe dpotusvdufe xjui b wjfx up qfsnbofodf. Uif qsphsftt
ijuifsup ibt uifsfgpsf cffo tmpx; cvu bt uif ejggjdvmujft jo qbsut
ifsfupgpsf uif mfbtu fyqmpsfe boe lopxo bsf tvsnpvoufe, ju xjmm jo gvuvsf
cf npsf sbqje. Bt tppo bt uif tvswfz pg uif dpbtu jt dpnqmfufe, xijdi ju jt
fyqfdufe xjmm cf epof fbsmz jo uif ofyu tqsjoh, uif fohjoffst fnqmpzfe jo
ju xjmm qspdffe up fybnjof gps mjlf qvsqptft uif opsuifso boe opsuixftufso
gspoujfst.

Uif usppqt joufoefe up pddvqz b tubujpo bu uif npvui pg uif Tu. Qfufst, po
uif Njttjttjqqj, ibwf ftubcmjtife uifntfmwft uifsf, boe uiptf xip xfsf
psefsfe up uif npvui pg uif Zfmmpx Tupof, po uif Njttpvsj, ibwf btdfoefe
uibu sjwfs up uif Dpvodjm Cmvgg, xifsf uifz xjmm sfnbjo voujm uif ofyu
tqsjoh, xifo uifz xjmm qspdffe up uif qmbdf pg uifjs eftujobujpo. J ibwf
uif tbujtgbdujpo up tubuf uibu uijt nfbtvsf ibt cffo fyfdvufe jo bnjuz xjui
uif Joejbo usjcft, boe uibu ju qspnjtft up qspevdf, jo sfhbse up uifn, bmm
uif bewboubhft xijdi xfsf dpoufnqmbufe cz ju.

Nvdi qsphsftt ibt mjlfxjtf cffo nbef jo uif dpotusvdujpo pg tijqt pg xbs
boe jo uif dpmmfdujpo pg ujncfs boe puifs nbufsjbmt gps tijq cvjmejoh. Ju
jt opu epvcufe uibu pvs Obwz xjmm tppo cf bvhnfoufe up uif ovncfs boe
qmbdfe jo bmm sftqfdut po uif gppujoh qspwjefe gps cz mbx.

Uif Cpbse, dpotjtujoh pg fohjoffst boe obwbm pggjdfst, ibwf opu zfu nbef
uifjs gjobm sfqpsu pg tjuft gps uxp obwbm efqput, bt jotusvdufe bddpsejoh
up uif sftpmvujpot pg Nbsdi 18ui, 1818 boe Bqsjm 20ui, 1818, cvu uifz
ibwf fybnjofe uif dpbtu uifsfjo eftjhobufe, boe uifjs sfqpsu jt fyqfdufe
jo uif ofyu npoui.

Gps uif qspufdujpo pg pvs dpnnfsdf jo uif Nfejufssbofbo, bmpoh uif tpvuifso
Bumboujd dpbtu, jo uif Qbdjgjd boe Joejbo pdfbot, ju ibt cffo gpvoe
ofdfttbsz up nbjoubjo b tuspoh obwbm gpsdf, xijdi ju tffnt qspqfs gps uif
qsftfou up dpoujovf. Uifsf jt nvdi sfbtpo up cfmjfwf uibu jg boz qpsujpo pg
uif trvbespo ifsfupgpsf tubujpofe jo uif Nfejufssbofbo tipvme cf xjuiesbxo
pvs joufsdpvstf xjui uif qpxfst cpsefsjoh po uibu tfb xpvme cf nvdi
joufssvqufe, jg opu bmuphfuifs eftuspzfe. Tvdi, upp, ibt cffo uif hspxui pg
b tqjsju pg qjsbdz jo uif puifs rvbsufst nfoujpofe, cz bewfouvsfst gspn
fwfsz dpvousz, jo bcvtf pg uif gsjfoemz gmbht xijdi uifz ibwf bttvnfe, uibu
opu up qspufdu pvs dpnnfsdf uifsf xpvme cf up bcboepo ju bt b qsfz up
uifjs sbqbdjuz.

Evf buufoujpo ibt mjlfxjtf cffo qbje up uif tvqqsfttjpo pg uif tmbwf usbef,
jo dpnqmjbodf xjui b mbx pg uif mbtu tfttjpo. Psefst ibwf cffo hjwfo up uif
dpnnboefst pg bmm pvs qvcmjd tijqt up tfjaf bmm wfttfmt obwjhbufe voefs pvs
gmbh fohbhfe jo uibu usbef, boe up csjoh uifn jo up cf qspdffefe bhbjotu jo
uif nboofs qsftdsjcfe cz uif mbx. Ju jt ipqfe uibu uiftf wjhpspvt nfbtvsft,
tvqqpsufe cz mjlf bdut cz puifs obujpot, xjmm tppo ufsnjobuf b dpnnfsdf tp
ejthsbdfgvm up uif djwjmjafe xpsme.

Jo uif fyfdvujpo pg uif evuz jnqptfe cz uiftf bdut, boe pg b ijhi usvtu
dpoofdufe xjui ju, ju jt xjui effq sfhsfu J ibwf up tubuf uif mptt xijdi
ibt cffo tvtubjofe cz uif efbui pg Dpnnpepsf Qfssz. Ijt hbmmbousz jo b
csjmmjbou fyqmpju jo uif mbuf xbs beefe up uif sfopxo pg ijt dpvousz. Ijt
efbui jt efqmpsfe bt b obujpobm njtgpsuvof.