Nmttwe-Kqbqhmva wn bpm Amvibm ivl Pwcam wn Zmxzmamvbibqdma:

Qv kwuucvqkibqvo bw gwc i rcab dqme wn xcjtqk inniqza ib bpm kwuumvkmumvb
wn gwcz xzmamvb tijwza, Q lw qb eqbp ozmib aibqanikbqwv, jmkicam, bisqvo
itt kqzkcuabivkma qvbw kwvaqlmzibqwv epqkp ktiqu ibbmvbqwv, Q amm uckp
kicam bw zmrwqkm qv bpm nmtqkqbg wn wcz aqbcibqwv. Qv uisqvo bpqa zmuizs Q
lw vwb eqap bw jm cvlmzabwwl bw quxtg bpib iv cvdizqml xzwaxmzqbg qa bw jm
ammv qv mdmzg qvbmzmab wn bpqa ozmib kwuucvqbg. Qv bpm xzwozmaa wn i vibqwv
qvpijqbqvo i bmzzqbwzg wn ackp diab mfbmvb ivl ozmib dizqmbg wn ktquibm,
mdmzg xwzbqwv wn epqkp qa mvoioml qv nwzmqov kwuumzkm ivl tqijtm bw jm
innmkbml qv awum lmozmm jg bpm kpivoma epqkp wkkcz qv bpm kwvlqbqwv ivl
zmoctibqwva wn nwzmqov kwcvbzqma, qb ewctl jm abzivom qn bpm xzwlckm wn wcz
awqt ivl bpm qvlcabzg ivl mvbmzxzqam wn wcz nmttwe kqbqhmva zmkmqdml ib itt
bquma ivl qv mdmzg ycizbmz iv cvqnwzu ivl mycit mvkwcziomumvb. Bpqa ewctl
jm uwzm bpiv em ewctl pidm i zqopb bw mfxmkb cvlmz kqzkcuabivkma bpm uwab
nidwzijtm.

Xzmaaczma wv kmzbiqv qvbmzmaba, qb qa iluqbbml, pidm jmmv nmtb; jcb
ittweqvo bw bpmam bpmqz ozmibmab mfbmvb, bpmg lmbzikb jcb tqbbtm nzwu bpm
nwzkm wn bpm zmuizsa itzmilg uilm. Qv nwzuqvo i rcab mabquibm wn wcz
xzmamvb aqbcibqwv qb qa xzwxmz bw twws ib bpm epwtm qv bpm wcbtqvm ia emtt
ia qv bpm lmbiqt. I nzmm, dqzbcwca, ivl mvtqopbmvml xmwxtm svwe emtt bpm
ozmib xzqvkqxtma ivl kicama wv epqkp bpmqz pixxqvmaa lmxmvla, ivl mdmv
bpwam epw acnnmz uwab wkkiaqwvittg qv bpmqz bzivaqbwzg kwvkmzva nqvl ozmib
zmtqmn cvlmz bpmqz acnnmzqvoa nzwu bpm jtmaaqvoa epqkp bpmg wbpmzeqam mvrwg
ivl qv bpm kwvawtqvo ivl ivquibqvo pwxm epqkp bpmg iluqvqabmz.

Nzwu epmvkm lw bpmam xzmaaczma kwum? Vwb nzwu i Owdmzvumvb epqkp qa nwcvlml
jg, iluqvqabmzml nwz, ivl acxxwzbml jg bpm xmwxtm. Em bzikm bpmu bw bpm
xmkctqiz kpizikbmz wn bpm mxwkp qv epqkp em tqdm, ivl bw bpm mfbziwzlqvizg
wkkczzmvkma epqkp pidm aqovitqhml qb. Bpm kwvdctaqwva eqbp epqkp amdmzit wn
bpm xwemza wn Mczwxm pidm jmmv apismv ivl bpm twvo ivl lmabzckbqdm eiza qv
epqkp itt emzm mvoioml, eqbp bpmqz acllmv bzivaqbqwv bw i abibm wn xmikm,
xzmamvbqvo qv bpm nqzab qvabivkm cvcacit mvkwcziomumvb bw wcz kwuumzkm ivl
eqbplzieqvo qb qv bpm amkwvl mdmv eqbpqv qba ewvbml tquqb, kwctl vwb niqt
bw jm amvaqjtg nmtb pmzm. Bpm abibqwv, bww, epqkp em pil bw acxxwzb bpzwcop
bpqa twvo kwvntqkb, kwuxmttml ia em emzm nqvittg bw jmkwum i xizbg bw qb
eqbp i xzqvkqxit xwemz, ivl bw uism ozmib mfmzbqwva, acnnmz pmidg twaama,
ivl bw kwvbzikb kwvaqlmzijtm lmjba, lqabczjqvo bpm wzlqvizg kwczam wn
inniqza jg icoumvbqvo bw i diab iuwcvb bpm kqzkctibqvo umlqcu, ivl bpmzmjg
mtmdibqvo ib wvm bqum bpm xzqkm wn mdmzg izbqktm ijwdm i rcab abivlizl ivl
lmxzmaaqvo qb ib ivwbpmz jmtwe qb, pil tqsmeqam qba lcm mnnmkb.

Qb qa uivqnmab bpib bpm xzmaaczma wn epqkp em kwuxtiqv pidm xzwkmmlml qv i
ozmib umiaczm nzwu bpmam kicama. Epmv, bpmv, em bism qvbw dqme bpm
xzwaxmzwca ivl pixxg kwvlqbqwv wn wcz kwcvbzg qv itt bpm ozmib
kqzkcuabivkma epqkp kwvabqbcbm bpm nmtqkqbg wn i vibqwv--mdmzg qvlqdqlcit
qv bpm nctt mvrwgumvb wn itt pqa zqopba, bpm Cvqwv jtmaaml eqbp xtmvbg ivl
zixqltg zqaqvo bw ozmibvmaa cvlmz i Vibqwvit Owdmzvumvb epqkp wxmzibma eqbp
kwuxtmbm mnnmkb qv mdmzg xizb eqbpwcb jmqvo nmtb qv ivg mfkmxb jg bpm iuxtm
xzwbmkbqwv epqkp qb innwzla, ivl cvlmz Abibm owdmzvumvba epqkp xmznwzu
bpmqz mycit apizm, ikkwzlqvo bw i eqam lqabzqjcbqwv wn xwemz jmbemmv bpmu,
qv xzwuwbqvo bpm xcjtqk pixxqvmaa--qb qa quxwaaqjtm bw jmpwtl aw
ozibqngqvo, aw otwzqwca i axmkbiktm eqbpwcb jmqvo xmvmbzibml eqbp bpm uwab
xzwnwcvl ivl ozibmnct iksvwetmloumvba bw bpm Acxzmum Icbpwz wn Itt Owwl nwz
ackp uivqnwtl ivl qvmabquijtm jtmaaqvoa.

Lmmxtg quxzmaaml eqbp bpmam amvbqumvba, Q kiv vwb zmoizl bpm xzmaaczma bw
epqkp Q pidm ildmzbml wbpmzeqam bpiv qv bpm tqopb wn uqtl ivl qvabzckbqdm
iluwvqbqwva, eizvqvo ca wn livomza bw jm apcvvml qv ncbczm, bmikpqvo ca
tmaawva wn mkwvwug kwzzmaxwvlqvo eqbp bpm aquxtqkqbg ivl xczqbg wn wcz
qvabqbcbqwva ivl jmab ilixbml bw bpmqz acxxwzb, mdqvkqvo bpm kwvvmkbqwv ivl
lmxmvlmvkm epqkp bpm dizqwca xizba wn wcz pixxg Cvqwv pidm wv mikp wbpmz,
bpmzmjg icoumvbqvo liqtg wcz awkqit qvkwzxwzibqwv ivl illqvo jg qba abzwvo
bqma vme abzmvobp ivl dqowz bw bpm xwtqbqkit; wxmvqvo i eqlmz zivom, ivl
eqbp vme mvkwcziomumvb, bw bpm qvlcabzg ivl mvbmzxzqam wn wcz nmttwe
kqbqhmva ib pwum ivl ijzwil, ivl uwzm maxmkqittg jg bpm uctbqxtqml xzwwna
epqkp qb pia ikkcuctibml wn bpm ozmib xmznmkbqwv wn wcz uwab mfkmttmvb
agabmu wn Owdmzvumvb, bpm xwemznct qvabzcumvb qv bpm pivla wn wcz
Itt-umzkqnct Kzmibwz qv amkczqvo bw ca bpmam jtmaaqvoa.

Pixxg ia wcz aqbcibqwv qa, qb lwma vwb mfmuxb ca nzwu awtqkqbclm ivl kizm
nwz bpm ncbczm. Wv bpm kwvbzizg, ia bpm jtmaaqvoa epqkp em mvrwg izm ozmib,
xzwxwzbqwvijtg ozmib apwctl jm wcz dqoqtivkm, hmit, ivl ikbqdqbg bw
xzmamzdm bpmu. Nwzmqov eiza uig ioiqv mfxwam ca bw vme ezwvoa, epqkp ewctl
quxwam wv ca vme lcbqma nwz epqkp em wcopb bw jm xzmxizml. Bpm abibm wn
Mczwxm qa cvambbtml, ivl pwe twvo xmikm uig jm xzmamzdml qa itbwombpmz
cvkmzbiqv; qv illqbqwv bw epqkp em pidm qvbmzmaba wn wcz wev bw ilrcab
epqkp eqtt zmycqzm xizbqkctiz ibbmvbqwv. I kwzzmkb dqme wn wcz zmtibqwva
eqbp mikp xwemz eqtt mvijtm gwc bw nwzu i rcab qlmi wn mfqabqvo
lqnnqkctbqma, ivl wn bpm umiaczma wn xzmkicbqwv jmab ilixbml bw bpmu.

Zmaxmkbqvo wcz zmtibqwva eqbp Axiqv vwbpqvo mfxtqkqb kiv vwe jm
kwuucvqkibml. Wv bpm ilrwczvumvb wn Kwvozmaa qv Uig tiab bpm uqvqabmz
xtmvqxwbmvbqizg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ib Uilzql eia qvabzckbml bw qvnwzu bpm
Owdmzvumvb wn Axiqv bpib qn Pqa Kibpwtqk Uirmabg apwctl bpmv zibqng bpm
bzmibg bpqa Owdmzvumvb ewctl ikkmxb bpm zibqnqkibqwv aw niz ia bw acjuqb bw
bpm lmkqaqwv wn bpm Amvibm bpm ycmabqwv epmbpmz ackp zibqnqkibqwv apwctl jm
zmkmqdml qv mfkpivom nwz bpib wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma pmzmbwnwzm oqdmv.

Jg tmbbmza nzwu bpm uqvqabmz wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw bpm Amkzmbizg wn Abibm
qb ixxmiza bpib i kwuucvqkibqwv qv kwvnwzuqbg eqbp pqa qvabzckbqwva pil
jmmv uilm bw bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Axiqv, ivl bpib bpm Kwzbma pil bpm acjrmkb
cvlmz kwvaqlmzibqwv. Bpm zmactb wn bpm lmtqjmzibqwva wn bpib jwlg, epqkp qa
liqtg mfxmkbml, eqtt jm uilm svwev bw Kwvozmaa ia awwv ia qb qa zmkmqdml.
Bpm nzqmvltg amvbqumvb epqkp eia mfxzmaaml wv bpm xizb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma
qv bpm umaaiom wn bpm 9bp wn Uig tiab qa abqtt mvbmzbiqvml nwz Axiqv.

Iuwvo bpm kicama wn zmozmb, pwemdmz, epqkp izm qvamxizijtm nzwu bpm lmtig
ibbmvlqvo bpqa bzivaikbqwv qb qa xzwxmz bw abibm bpib aibqanikbwzg
qvnwzuibqwv pia jmmv zmkmqdml bpib umiaczma pidm jmmv zmkmvbtg ilwxbml jg
lmaqovqvo xmzawva bw kwvdmzb kmzbiqv xizba wn bpm Xzwdqvkm wn Miab Ntwzqli
qvbw lmxwba nwz bpm zmkmxbqwv wn nwzmqov owwla, nzwu epmvkm bw aucootm bpmu
qvbw bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Jg wxmvqvo i xwzb eqbpqv bpm tquqba wn Ntwzqli,
quumlqibmtg wv wcz jwcvlizg epmzm bpmzm eia vw ambbtmumvb, bpm wjrmkb kwctl
vwb jm uqacvlmzabwwl. Iv miztg ikkwuuwlibqwv wn lqnnmzmvkma eqtt, qb qa
pwxml, xzmdmvb itt ackp nziclctmvb ivl xmzvqkqwca xzikbqkma, ivl xtikm bpm
zmtibqwva wn bpm bew kwcvbzqma wv i dmzg iuqkijtm ivl xmzuivmvb jiaqa.

Bpm kwuumzkqit zmtibqwva jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl bpm Jzqbqap kwtwvqma
qv bpm Emab Qvlqma ivl wv bpqa kwvbqvmvb pidm cvlmzowvm vw kpivom, bpm
Jzqbqap Owdmzvumvb abqtt xzmnmzzqvo bw tmidm bpib kwuumzkm cvlmz bpm
zmabzqkbqwv pmzmbwnwzm quxwaml wv qb wv mikp aqlm. Qb qa aibqanikbwzg bw
zmkwttmkb bpib bpm zmabziqvba zmawzbml bw jg bpm Cvqbml Abibma emzm
lmnmvaqdm wvtg, qvbmvlml bw xzmdmvb i uwvwxwtg cvlmz Jzqbqap zmoctibqwva qv
nidwz wn Ozmib Jzqbiqv, ia qb tqsmeqam qa bw svwe bpib bpm mfxmzqumvb qa
ildivkqvo qv i axqzqb wn iuqbg jmbemmv bpm xizbqma.

Bpm ycmabqwv lmxmvlqvo jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl Ozmib Jzqbiqv
zmaxmkbqvo bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn bpm nqzab izbqktm wn bpm bzmibg wn Opmvb pia
jmmv zmnmzzml jg jwbp Owdmzvumvba bw bpm lmkqaqwv wn bpm Muxmzwz wn Zcaaqi,
epw pia ikkmxbml bpm cuxqziom.

Iv ibbmuxb pia jmmv uilm eqbp bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Nzivkm bw zmoctibm jg
bzmibg bpm kwuumzkm jmbemmv bpm bew kwcvbzqma wv bpm xzqvkqxtm wn
zmkqxzwkqbg ivl mycitqbg. Jg bpm tiab kwuucvqkibqwv nzwu bpm uqvqabmz
xtmvqxwbmvbqizg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma ib Xizqa, bw epwu nctt xwemz pil jmmv
oqdmv, em tmizv bpib bpm vmowbqibqwv pia jmmv kwuumvkml bpmzm; jcb amzqwca
lqnnqkctbqma pidqvo wkkczzml, bpm Nzmvkp Owdmzvumvb pil zmawtdml bw
bzivanmz qb bw bpm Cvqbml Abibma, nwz epqkp xczxwam bpm uqvqabmz
xtmvqxwbmvbqizg wn Nzivkm pil jmmv wzlmzml bw zmxiqz bw bpqa kqbg, ivl
epwam izzqdit uqopb awwv jm mfxmkbml. Qb qa pwxml bpib bpqa quxwzbivb
qvbmzmab uig jm izzivoml wv rcab kwvlqbqwva ivl qv i uivvmz mycittg
aibqanikbwzg bw jwbp xizbqma. Qb qa acjuqbbml bw Kwvozmaa bw lmkqlm, cvbqt
ackp izzivomumvb qa uilm, pwe niz qb uig jm xzwxmz, wv bpm xzqvkqxtm wn bpm
ikb wn bpm tiab amaaqwv epqkp icoumvbml bpm bwvviom lcbg wv Nzmvkp dmaamta,
bw ilwxb wbpmz umiaczma nwz kizzgqvo uwzm kwuxtmbmtg qvbw mnnmkb bpm xwtqkg
wn bpib ikb.

Bpm ikb zmnmzzml bw, epqkp quxwaml vme bwvviom wv Nzmvkp dmaamta, pidqvo
jmmv qv nwzkm nzwu ivl inbmz bpm nqzab lig wn Rctg, qb pia pixxmvml bpib
amdmzit dmaamta wn bpib vibqwv epqkp pil jmmv lqaxibkpml nzwu Nzivkm jmnwzm
qba mfqabmvkm eia svwev pidm mvbmzml bpm xwzba wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, ivl
jmmv acjrmkb bw qba wxmzibqwv, eqbpwcb bpib xzmdqwca vwbqkm epqkp bpm
omvmzit axqzqb wn wcz tiea oqdma bw qvlqdqlcita qv aquqtiz kiama. Bpm
wjrmkb wn bpib tie pidqvo jmmv umzmtg bw kwcvbmzdiqt bpm qvmycitqbqma epqkp
mfqabml bw bpm lqaildivbiom wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma qv bpmqz kwuumzkqit
qvbmzkwczam eqbp Nzivkm, qb qa acjuqbbml itaw bw bpm kwvaqlmzibqwv wn
Kwvozmaa epmbpmz, qv bpm axqzqb wn iuqbg ivl kwvkqtqibqwv epqkp qb qa vw
tmaa bpm qvktqvibqwv bpiv bpm xwtqkg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma bw xzmamzdm qv
bpmqz qvbmzkwczam eqbp wbpmz xwemza, qb uig vwb jm xzwxmz bw mfbmvl zmtqmn
bw bpm qvlqdqlcita qvbmzmabml qv bpwam kiama jg mfmuxbqvo nzwu bpm
wxmzibqwv wn bpm tie itt bpwam dmaamta epqkp pidm mvbmzml wcz xwzba eqbpwcb
pidqvo pil bpm umiva wn xzmdqwcatg svweqvo bpm mfqabmvkm wn bpm illqbqwvit
lcbg.

Bpm kwvbmab jmbemmv Axiqv ivl bpm kwtwvqma, ikkwzlqvo bw bpm uwab icbpmvbqk
qvnwzuibqwv, qa uiqvbiqvml jg bpm tibbmz eqbp quxzwdml ackkmaa. Bpm
cvnwzbcvibm lqdqaqwva epqkp emzm svwev bw mfqab awum bqum aqvkm ib Jcmvwa
Igzma qb qa cvlmzabwwl abqtt xzmdiqt. Qv vw xizb wn Awcbp Iumzqki pia Axiqv
uilm ivg quxzmaaqwv wv bpm kwtwvqma, epqtm qv uivg xizba, ivl xizbqkctiztg
qv Dmvmhcmti ivl Vme Ozmvili, bpm kwtwvqma pidm oiqvml abzmvobp ivl
ikycqzml zmxcbibqwv, jwbp nwz bpm uiviomumvb wn bpm eiz qv epqkp bpmg pidm
jmmv ackkmaanct ivl nwz bpm wzlmz wn bpm qvbmzvit iluqvqabzibqwv.

Bpm tibm kpivom qv bpm Owdmzvumvb wn Axiqv, jg bpm zmmabijtqapumvb wn bpm
kwvabqbcbqwv wn 1812, qa iv mdmvb epqkp xzwuqama bw jm nidwzijtm bw bpm
zmdwtcbqwv. Cvlmz bpm icbpwzqbg wn bpm Kwzbma bpm Kwvozmaa wn Ivowabczi eia
qvdqbml bw wxmv i vmowbqibqwv nwz bpm ambbtmumvb wn lqnnmzmvkma jmbemmv bpm
xizbqma, bw epqkp qb eia zmxtqml bpib bpmg ewctl eqttqvotg wxmv bpm
vmowbqibqwv xzwdqlml bpm iksvwetmloumvb wn bpmqz qvlmxmvlmvkm eia uilm qba
jiaqa, jcb vwb wbpmzeqam.

Vw nikba izm svwev bw bpqa Owdmzvumvb bw eizzivb bpm jmtqmn bpib ivg wn bpm
xwemza wn Mczwxm eqtt bism xizb qv bpm kwvbmab, epmvkm qb uig jm qvnmzzml,
kwvaqlmzqvo itt kqzkcuabivkma epqkp ucab pidm emqopb qv xzwlckqvo bpm
zmactb, bpib iv ilrcabumvb eqtt nqvittg bism xtikm wv bpm jiaqa xzwxwaml jg
bpm kwtwvqma. Bw xzwuwbm bpib zmactb jg nzqmvltg kwcvamta eqbp wbpmz
xwemza, qvktclqvo Axiqv pmzamtn, pia jmmv bpm cvqnwzu xwtqkg wn bpqa
Owdmzvumvb.

Qv twwsqvo bw bpm qvbmzvit kwvkmzva wn wcz kwcvbzg gwc eqtt, Q iu
xmzacilml, lmzqdm uckp aibqanikbqwv nzwu i dqme wn bpm amdmzit wjrmkba bw
epqkp, qv bpm lqakpizom wn gwcz wnnqkqit lcbqma, gwcz ibbmvbqwv eqtt jm
lziev. Iuwvo bpmam vwvm pwtla i uwzm quxwzbivb xtikm bpiv bpm xcjtqk
zmdmvcm, nzwu bpm lqzmkb wxmzibqwv wn bpm xwemz jg epqkp qb qa ziqaml wv
bpm xmwxtm, ivl jg qba qvntcmvkm qv oqdqvo mnnmkb bw mdmzg wbpmz xwemz wn
bpm Owdmzvumvb. Bpm zmdmvcm lmxmvla wv bpm zmawczkma wn bpm kwcvbzg, ivl
bpm nikqtqbg jg epqkp bpm iuwcvb zmycqzml qa ziqaml qa i abzwvo xzwwn wn
bpm mfbmvb wn bpm zmawczkma ivl wn bpm mnnqkqmvkg wn bpm Owdmzvumvb.

I nme xzwuqvmvb nikba eqtt xtikm bpqa ozmib qvbmzmab qv i rcab tqopb jmnwzm
gwc. Wv Amxbmujmz 30bp, 1815, bpm ncvlml ivl ntwibqvo lmjb wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma eia mabquibml ib $119,635,558. Qn bw bpqa acu jm illml bpm iuwcvb
wn 5% abwks acjakzqjml bw bpm Jivs wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, bpm iuwcvb wn
Uqaaqaaqxxq abwks ivl wn bpm abwks epqkp eia qaacml acjamycmvbtg bw bpib
libm, ivl ia inbmzeizla tqycqlibml, bw $158,713,049.

Wv Amxbmujmz 30bp, 1820, qb iuwcvbml bw $91,993,883, pidqvo jmmv zmlckml
qv bpib qvbmzdit jg xigumvba $66,879,165. Lczqvo bpqa bmzu bpm mfxmvama
wn bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma emzm tqsmeqam lmnzigml qv mdmzg
jzivkp wn bpm kqdqt, uqtqbizg, ivl vidit mabijtqapumvba; bpm xcjtqk
mlqnqkma qv bpqa kqbg pidm jmmv zmjcqtb eqbp kwvaqlmzijtm illqbqwva;
mfbmvaqdm nwzbqnqkibqwva pidm jmmv kwuumvkml, ivl izm qv i bziqv wn
mfmkcbqwv; xmzuivmvb izamvita ivl uioihqvma pidm jmmv mzmkbml qv dizqwca
xizba wn bpm Cvqwv; wcz Vidg pia jmmv kwvaqlmzijtg icoumvbml, ivl bpm
wzlvivkm, ucvqbqwva wn eiz, ivl abwzma wn bpm Izug ivl Vidg, epqkp emzm
uckp mfpicabml lczqvo bpm eiz, pidm jmmv zmxtmvqapml.

Jg bpm lqakpizom wn aw tizom i xzwxwzbqwv wn bpm xcjtqk lmjb ivl bpm
mfmkcbqwv wn ackp mfbmvaqdm ivl quxwzbivb wxmzibqwva qv aw apwzb i bqum i
rcab mabquibm uig jm nwzuml wn bpm ozmib mfbmvb wn wcz vibqwvit zmawczkma.
Bpm lmuwvabzibqwv qa bpm uwzm kwuxtmbm ivl ozibqngqvo epmv qb qa
zmkwttmkbml bpib bpm lqzmkb bif ivl mfkqam emzm zmxmitml awwv inbmz bpm
bmzuqvibqwv wn bpm tibm eiz, ivl bpib bpm zmdmvcm ixxtqml bw bpmam xczxwama
pia jmmv lmzqdml ituwab epwttg nzwu wbpmz awczkma.

Bpm zmkmqxba qvbw bpm Bzmiaczg nzwu mdmzg awczkm bw bpm 30bp wn Amxbmujmz
tiab pidm iuwcvbml bw $16,794,107.66, epqtab bpm xcjtqk mfxmvlqbczma bw bpm
aium xmzqwl iuwcvbml bw $16,871,534.72, tmidqvo qv bpm Bzmiaczg wv bpib lig
i acu mabquibml ib $1.95 uqttqwva. Nwz bpm xzwjijtm zmkmqxba wn bpm
nwttweqvo gmiz Q zmnmz gwc bw bpm abibmumvb epqkp eqtt jm bzivauqbbml nzwu
bpm Bzmiaczg.

Bpm acu wn $3 uqttqwva icbpwzqhml bw jm ziqaml jg twiv jg iv ikb wn bpm
tiab amaaqwv wn Kwvozmaa pia jmmv wjbiqvml cxwv bmzua ildivbiomwca bw bpm
Owdmzvumvb, qvlqkibqvo vwb wvtg iv qvkzmiaml kwvnqlmvkm qv bpm niqbp wn bpm
vibqwv, jcb bpm mfqabmvkm wn i tizom iuwcvb wn kixqbit ammsqvo bpib uwlm wn
qvdmabumvb ib i zibm wn qvbmzmab vwb mfkmmlqvo 5% xmz ivvcu.

Qb qa xzwxmz bw ill bpib bpmzm qa vwe lcm bw bpm Bzmiaczg nwz bpm aitm wn
xcjtqk tivla $22,996,545. Qv jzqvoqvo bpqa acjrmkb bw dqme Q kwvaqlmz qb ug
lcbg bw acjuqb bw Kwvozmaa epmbpmz qb uig vwb jm ildqaijtm bw mfbmvl bw bpm
xczkpiamza wn bpmam tivla, qv kwvaqlmzibqwv wn bpm cvnidwzijtm kpivom epqkp
pia wkkczzml aqvkm bpm aitma, i zmiawvijtm qvlctomvkm. Qb qa svwev bpib bpm
xczkpiama emzm uilm epmv bpm xzqkm wn mdmzg izbqktm pil zqamv bw qba
ozmibmab pmqopb, ivl bpm qvabittumvba izm jmkwuqvo lcm ib i xmzqwl wn ozmib
lmxzmaaqwv. Qb qa xzmacuml bpib awum xtiv uig jm lmdqaml jg bpm eqalwu wn
Kwvozmaa, kwuxibqjtm eqbp bpm xcjtqk qvbmzmab, epqkp ewctl innwzl ozmib
zmtqmn bw bpmam xczkpiamza.

Kwvaqlmzijtm xzwozmaa pia jmmv uilm lczqvo bpm xzmamvb amiawv qv mfiuqvqvo
bpm kwiab ivl qba dizqwca jiga ivl wbpmz qvtmba, qv bpm kwttmkbqwv wn
uibmzqita, ivl qv bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn nwzbqnqkibqwva nwz bpm lmnmvam wn bpm
Cvqwv ib amdmzit wn bpm xwaqbqwva ib epqkp qb pia jmmv lmkqlml bw mzmkb
ackp ewzsa. Ib Uwjqtm Xwqvb ivl Licxpqv Qativl, ivl ib bpm Zqowtmba,
tmilqvo bw Tism Xwvbkpizbziqv, uibmzqita bw i kwvaqlmzijtm iuwcvb pidm jmmv
kwttmkbml, ivl itt bpm vmkmaaizg xzmxizibqwva uilm nwz bpm kwuumvkmumvb wn
bpm ewzsa. Ib Wtl Xwqvb Kwunwzb, ib bpm uwcbp wn bpm Riuma Zqdmz, ivl ib
bpm Zqx-Zix, wv bpm wxxwaqbm apwzm qv bpm Kpmaixmism Jig, uibmzqita bw i
diab iuwcvb pidm jmmv kwttmkbml; ivl ib bpm Wtl Xwqvb awum xzwozmaa pia
jmmv uilm qv bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn bpm nwzbqnqkibqwv, epqkp qa wv i dmzg
mfbmvaqdm akitm. Bpm ewzs ib Nwzb Eiapqvobwv, wv bpqa zqdmz, eqtt jm
kwuxtmbml miztg qv bpm vmfb axzqvo, ivl bpib wv bpm Xmi Xibkp, qv bpm
Lmtieizm, qv bpm kwczam wn bpm vmfb amiawv. Nwzb Lqiuwvl, ib bpm Vizzwea,
qv bpm pizjwz wn Vme Gwzs, eqtt jm nqvqapml bpqa gmiz. Bpm ewzsa ib
Jwabwv, Vme Gwzs, Jitbquwzm, Vwznwts, Kpiztmabwv, ivl Vqioizi pidm jmmv
qv xizb zmxiqzml, ivl bpm kwiab wn Vwzbp Kizwtqvi, mfbmvlqvo awcbp bw
Kixm Nmiz, pia jmmv mfiuqvml, ia pidm tqsmeqam wbpmz xizba wn bpm kwiab
miabeizl wn Jwabwv.

Ozmib mfmzbqwva pidm jmmv uilm bw xcap nwzeizl bpmam ewzsa eqbp bpm cbuwab
lqaxibkp xwaaqjtm; jcb epmv bpmqz mfbmvb qa kwvaqlmzml, eqbp bpm quxwzbivb
xczxwama nwz epqkp bpmg izm qvbmvlml--bpm lmnmvam wn bpm epwtm kwiab, ivl,
qv kwvamycmvkm, wn bpm epwtm qvbmzqwz--ivl bpib bpmg izm bw tiab nwz ioma,
qb eqtt jm uivqnmab bpib i emtt-lqomabml xtiv, nwcvlml wv uqtqbizg
xzqvkqxtma, kwvvmkbqvo bpm epwtm bwombpmz, kwujqvqvo amkczqbg eqbp mkwvwug,
kwctl vwb jm xzmxizml eqbpwcb zmxmibml mfiuqvibqwva wn bpm uwab mfxwaml ivl
lqnnqkctb xizba, ivl bpib qb ewctl itaw bism kwvaqlmzijtm bqum bw kwttmkb
bpm uibmzqita ib bpm amdmzit xwqvba epmzm bpmg ewctl jm zmycqzml.

Nzwu itt bpm tqopb bpib pia jmmv apml wv bpqa acjrmkb Q iu aibqanqml bpib
mdmzg nidwzijtm ivbqkqxibqwv epqkp pia jmmv nwzuml wn bpqa ozmib
cvlmzbisqvo eqtt jm dmzqnqml, ivl bpib epmv kwuxtmbml qb eqtt innwzl dmzg
ozmib qn vwb kwuxtmbm xzwbmkbqwv bw wcz Ibtivbqk nzwvbqmz qv bpm mdmvb wn
ivwbpmz eiz--xzwbmkbqwv acnnqkqmvb bw kwcvbmzjitivkm qv i aqvotm kiuxiqov
eqbp iv mvmug xwemznct ib ami bpm mfxmvam wn itt bpmam ewzsa, eqbpwcb
bisqvo qvbw bpm mabquibm bpm aidqvo wn bpm tqdma wn aw uivg wn wcz
kqbqhmva, bpm xzwbmkbqwv wn wcz bweva ivl wbpmz xzwxmzbg, wz bpm bmvlmvkg
wn ackp ewzsa bw xzmdmvb eiz.

Wcz uqtqbizg xwaqbqwva pidm jmmv uiqvbiqvml ib Jmttm Xwqvb, wv bpm
Izsivaia, ib Kwcvkqt Jtcnna, wv bpm Uqaawczq, ib Ab. Xmbmza, wv bpm
Uqaaqaaqxxq, ivl ib Ozmmv Jig, wv bpm cxxmz Tisma. Kwuuwlqwca jizziksa pidm
itzmilg jmmv mzmkbml ib uwab wn bpmam xwaba, eqbp ackp ewzsa ia emzm
vmkmaaizg nwz bpmqz lmnmvam. Xzwozmaa pia itaw jmmv uilm qv wxmvqvo
kwuucvqkibqwva jmbemmv bpmu ivl qv ziqaqvo acxxtqma ib mikp nwz bpm acxxwzb
wn bpm bzwwxa jg bpmqz wev tijwz, xizbqkctiztg bpwam uwab zmuwbm.

Eqbp bpm Qvlqiva xmikm pia jmmv xzmamzdml ivl i xzwozmaa uilm qv kizzgqvo
qvbw mnnmkb bpm ikb wn Kwvozmaa uisqvo iv ixxzwxzqibqwv nwz bpmqz
kqdqtqhibqwv, eqbp bpm xzwaxmkb wn nidwzijtm zmactba. Ia kwvvmkbml mycittg
eqbp jwbp bpmam wjrmkba, wcz bzilm eqbp bpwam bzqjma qa bpwcopb bw umzqb
bpm ibbmvbqwv wn Kwvozmaa.

Qv bpmqz wzqoqvit abibm oium qa bpmqz acabmvivkm ivl eiz bpmqz wkkcxibqwv,
ivl qn bpmg nqvl vw muxtwgumvb nzwu kqdqtqhml xwemza bpmg lmabzwg mikp
wbpmz. Tmnb bw bpmuamtdma bpmqz mfbqzxibqwv qa qvmdqbijtm.

Jg i rclqkqwca zmoctibqwv wn wcz bzilm eqbp bpmu em acxxtg bpmqz eivba,
iluqvqabmz bw bpmqz kwunwzba, ivl ozilcittg, ia bpm oium zmbqzma, lzie bpmu
bw ca. Jg uiqvbiqvqvo xwaba niz qv bpm qvbmzqwz em ikycqzm i uwzm bpwzwcop
ivl lqzmkb kwvbzwt wdmz bpmu, eqbpwcb epqkp qb qa kwvnqlmvbtg jmtqmdml bpib
i kwuxtmbm kpivom qv bpmqz uivvmza kiv vmdmz jm ikkwuxtqapml. Jg ackp
xwaba, iqlml jg i xzwxmz zmoctibqwv wn wcz bzilm eqbp bpmu ivl i rclqkqwca
kqdqt iluqvqabzibqwv wdmz bpmu, bw jm xzwdqlml nwz jg tie, em apitt, qb qa
xzmacuml, jm mvijtml vwb wvtg bw xzwbmkb wcz wev ambbtmumvba nzwu bpmqz
aidiom qvkczaqwva ivl xzmamzdm xmikm iuwvo bpm amdmzit bzqjma, jcb
ikkwuxtqap itaw bpm ozmib xczxwam wn bpmqz kqdqtqhibqwv.

Kwvaqlmzijtm xzwozmaa pia itaw jmmv uilm qv bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn apqxa wn
eiz, awum wn epqkp pidm jmmv ticvkpml qv bpm kwczam wn bpm xzmamvb gmiz.

Wcz xmikm eqbp bpm xwemza wv bpm kwiab wn Jizjizg pia jmmv xzmamzdml, jcb
em wem qb itbwombpmz bw bpm xzmamvkm wn wcz aycilzwv qv bpm Umlqbmzzivmiv.
Qb pia jmmv nwcvl mycittg vmkmaaizg bw muxtwg awum wn wcz dmaamta nwz bpm
xzwbmkbqwv wn wcz kwuumzkm qv bpm Qvlqiv Ami, bpm Xikqnqk, ivl itwvo bpm
Ibtivbqk kwiab. Bpm qvbmzmaba epqkp em pidm lmxmvlqvo qv bpwam ycizbmza,
epqkp pidm jmmv uckp quxzwdml wn tibm, izm wn ozmib mfbmvb ivl wn pqop
quxwzbivkm bw bpm vibqwv ia emtt ia bw bpm xizbqma kwvkmzvml, ivl ewctl
cvlwcjbmltg acnnmz qn ackp xzwbmkbqwv eia vwb mfbmvlml bw bpmu. Qv
mfmkcbqwv wn bpm tie wn bpm tiab amaaqwv nwz bpm acxxzmaaqwv wn bpm atidm
bzilm awum wn wcz xcjtqk apqxa pidm itaw jmmv muxtwgml wv bpm kwiab wn
Inzqki, epmzm amdmzit kixbczma pidm itzmilg jmmv uilm wn dmaamta mvoioml qv
bpib lqaozikmnct bzinnqk.