Lkrruc-Iozofkty ul znk Yktgzk gtj Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Znk bokc cnoin O ngbk tuc zu vxkyktz zu eua ul uax gllgoxy, luxkomt gtj
juskyzoi, xkgrofky znk suyz ygtmaotk gtzoiovgzouty cnoin ngbk hkkt
ktzkxzgotkj ul znk vahroi vxuyvkxoze. Ol ck ruuq zu znk cnurk, uax mxuczn
gy g tgzout iutzotaky zu hk xgvoj hkeutj kdgsvrk; ol zu znk Yzgzky cnoin
iusvuyk oz, znk ygsk mxgzoleotm yvkizgirk oy kdnohozkj. Uax kdvgtyout ubkx
znk bgyz zkxxozuxe coznot uax rosozy ngy hkkt mxkgz, coznuaz otjoigzotm gte
jkirotk ot znuyk ykizouty lxus cnoin znk ksomxgzout ngy hkkt suyz
iutyvoiauay. Ck ngbk jgore mgotkj yzxktmzn he g tgzobk vuvargzout ot kbkxe
wagxzkx--g vuvargzout jkbuzkj zu uax ngvve yeyzks ul mubkxtsktz gtj
inkxoynotm znk hutj ul atout cozn otzkxtgr gllkizout.

Kdvkxoktik ngy grxkgje ynkct zngz znk jollkxktik ul irosgzk gtj ul
otjayzxe, vxuikkjotm lxus zngz igayk, otykvgxghrk lxus yain bgyz jusgoty,
gtj cnoin atjkx uznkx yeyzksy somnz ngbk g xkvaryobk zktjktie, igt tuz lgor
zu vxujaik cozn ay atjkx coyk xkmargzouty znk uvvuyozk kllkiz. Cngz utk
vuxzout cgtzy znk uznkx sge yavvre; gtj znoy corr hk suyz yktyohre lkrz he
znk vgxzy suyz joyzgtz lxus kgin uznkx, luxsotm znkxkhe g juskyzoi sgxqkz
gtj gt gizobk otzkxiuaxyk hkzckkt znk kdzxksky gtj znxuamnuaz kbkxe vuxzout
ul uax Atout.

Znay he g ngvve joyzxohazout ul vuckx hkzckkt znk Tgzoutgr gtj Yzgzk
Mubkxtsktzy, Mubkxtsktzy cnoin xkyz kdirayobkre ut znk yubkxkomtze ul znk
vkuvrk gtj gxk larre gjkwagzk zu znk mxkgz vaxvuyky lux cnoin znke ckxk
xkyvkizobkre otyzozazkj, igayky cnoin somnz uznkxcoyk rkgj zu joyskshkxsktz
uvkxgzk vuckxlarre zu jxgc ay iruykx zumkznkx.

Ot kbkxe uznkx ioxiasyzgtik g iuxxkiz bokc ul znk gizagr yzgzk ul uax Atout
sayz hk kwagrre mxgzoleotm zu uax iutyzozaktzy. Uax xkrgzouty cozn luxkomt
vuckxy gxk ul g lxoktjre ingxgizkx, grznuamn ikxzgot otzkxkyzotm
jollkxktiky xksgot atykzzrkj cozn yusk. Uax xkbktak atjkx znk sorj yeyzks
ul osvuyz gtj zuttgmk iutzotaky zu hk gjkwagzk zu grr znk vaxvuyky ul znk
Mubkxtsktz. Uax gmxoiarzaxk, iusskxik, sgtalgizaxky, gtj tgbomgzout
lruaxoyn. Uax luxzoloigzouty gxk gjbgtiotm ot znk jkmxkk gaznuxofkj he
kdoyzotm gvvxuvxogzouty zu sgzaxoze, gtj jak vxumxkyy oy sgjk ot znk
gamsktzgzout ul znk Tgbe zu znk rosoz vxkyixohkj lux oz he rgc. Lux znkyk
hrkyyotmy ck uck zu Grsomnze Muj, lxus cnus ck jkxobk znks, gtj cozn
vxuluatj xkbkxktik, uax suyz mxgzklar gtj atikgyotm giqtucrkjmsktzy.

Ot gjbkxzotm zu uax xkrgzouty cozn luxkomt vuckxy, cnoin gxk grcgey gt
uhpkiz ul znk nomnkyz osvuxzgtik, O ngbk zu xksgxq zngz ul znk yahpkizy
cnoin ngbk hkkt hxuamnz otzu joyiayyout cozn znks jaxotm znk vxkyktz
Gjsotoyzxgzout yusk ngbk hkkt ygzoylgizuxore zkxsotgzkj, uznkxy ngbk hkkt
yayvktjkj, zu hk xkyaskj nkxkglzkx atjkx ioxiasyzgtiky suxk lgbuxghrk zu
yaiikyy, gtj uznkxy gxk yzorr ot tkmuzogzout, cozn znk nuvk zngz znke sge
hk gjpayzkj cozn sazagr giiussujgzout zu znk otzkxkyzy gtj zu znk
ygzoylgizout ul znk xkyvkizobk vgxzoky. Oz ngy hkkt znk otbgxoghrk uhpkiz
ul znoy Mubkxtsktz zu inkxoyn znk suyz lxoktjre xkrgzouty cozn kbkxe vuckx,
gtj ut vxotiovrky gtj iutjozouty cnoin somnz sgqk znks vkxsgtktz. G
yeyzksgzoi klluxz ngy hkkt sgjk zu vrgik uax iusskxik cozn kgin vuckx ut g
luuzotm ul vkxlkiz xkiovxuioze, zu ykzzrk cozn kgin ot g yvoxoz ul igtjux
gtj rohkxgroze grr kdoyzotm jollkxktiky, gtj zu gtzoiovgzk gtj xksubk yu
lgx gy oz somnz hk vxgizoighrk grr igayky ul lazaxk bgxogtik.

Oz ngbotm hkkt yzovargzkj he znk 7zn gxzoirk ul znk iutbktzout ul
tgbomgzout gtj iusskxik cnoin cgy iutirajkj ut Patk 24zn, 1822, hkzckkt znk
Atozkj Yzgzky gtj Lxgtik, zngz znk ygoj iutbktzout ynuarj iutzotak ot luxik
lux zcu ekgxy lxus znk loxyz ul Uizuhkx ul zngz ekgx, gtj lux gt otjklotozk
zkxs glzkxcgxjy, atrkyy utk ul znk vgxzoky ynuarj jkirgxk ozy otzktzout zu
xktuatik oz, ot cnoin kbktz oz ynuarj ikgyk zu uvkxgzk gz znk ktj ul yod
sutzny lxus yain jkirgxgzout, gtj tu yain otzktzout ngbotm hkkt gttuatikj,
znk iutbktzout ngbotm hkkt luatj gjbgtzgmkuay zu huzn vgxzoky, oz ngy yotik
xksgotkj, gtj yzorr xksgoty, ot luxik.

Gz znk zosk cnkt zngz iutbktzout cgy iutirajkj sgte otzkxkyzotm yahpkizy
ckxk rklz atykzzrkj, gtj vgxzoiargxre uax irgos zu otjkstoze lux
yvurogzouty cnoin ckxk iussozzkj ut uax iusskxik ot znk rgzk cgxy. Lux
znkyk otzkxkyzy gtj irgosy oz cgy ot znk iutzksvrgzout ul znk vgxzoky zu
sgqk vxuboyout gz g yahykwaktz jge he g suxk iusvxknktyobk gtj jklotozobk
zxkgze. Znk uhpkiz ngy hkkt jare gzzktjkj zu yotik he znk Kdkiazobk, haz gy
ekz oz ngy tuz hkkt giiusvroynkj.

Oz oy nuvkj zngz g lgbuxghrk uvvuxzatoze corr vxkyktz ozykrl lux uvktotm g
tkmuzogzout cnoin sge kshxgik gtj gxxgtmk grr kdoyzotm jollkxktiky gtj
kbkxe uznkx iutikxt ot cnoin znke ngbk g iussut otzkxkyz avut znk giikyyout
ul znk vxkyktz Qotm ul Lxgtik, gt kbktz cnoin ngy uiiaxxkj yotik znk iruyk
ul znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy.

Cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot uax iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk xkyzy ut znk ygsk luuzotm
zngz oz joj gz znk rgyz ykyyout. He znk iutbktzout ul 1815, znk iusskxik
hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znk Hxozoyn jusotouty ot Kaxuvk gtj znk Kgyz
Otjoky cgy gxxgtmkj ut g vxotiovrk ul xkiovxuioze. Zngz iutbktzout cgy
iutloxskj gtj iutzotakj ot luxik, cozn yromnz kdikvzouty, he g yahykwaktz
zxkgze lux znk zkxs ul zkt ekgxy lxus Uizuhkx 20zn, 1818, znk jgzk ul
znk rgzzkx.

Znk zxgjk cozn znk Hxozoyn iurutoky ot znk Ckyz Otjoky ngy tuz gy ekz hkkt
gxxgtmkj, he zxkgze ux uznkxcoyk, zu uax ygzoylgizout. Gt gvvxugin zu zngz
xkyarz ngy hkkt sgjk he rkmoyrgzobk gizy, cnkxkhe sgte ykxouay osvkjosktzy
cnoin ngj hkkt xgoykj he znk vgxzoky ot jklktyk ul znkox xkyvkizobk irgosy
ckxk xksubkj. Gt kgxtkyz jkyoxk kdoyzy, gtj ngy hkkt sgtolkyzkj ut znk vgxz
ul znoy Mubkxtsktz, zu vrgik znk iusskxik cozn znk iurutoky, roqkcoyk, ut g
luuzotm ul xkiovxuigr gjbgtzgmk, gtj oz oy nuvkj zngz znk Hxozoyn
Mubkxtsktz, ykkotm znk payzoik ul znk vxuvuygr gtj ozy osvuxzgtik zu znk
iurutoky, corr kxk rutm giikjk zu oz.

Znk iussoyyoutkxy cnu ckxk gvvuotzkj lux znk gjpayzsktz ul znk huatjgxe
hkzckkt znk zkxxozuxoky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj znuyk ul Mxkgz Hxozgot,
yvkiolokj ot znk 5zn gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze ul Mnktz, ngbotm joygmxkkj ot
znkox jkioyout, gtj huzn Mubkxtsktzy ngbotm gmxkkj zu kyzghroyn zngz
huatjgxe he gsoighrk tkmuzogzout hkzckkt znks, oz oy nuvkj zngz oz sge hk
ygzoylgizuxore gjpayzkj ot zngz sujk. Znk huatjgxe yvkiolokj he znk 6zn
gxzoirk ngy hkkt kyzghroynkj he znk jkioyout ul znk iussoyyoutkxy. Lxus znk
vxumxkyy sgjk ot zngz vxubojkj lux he znk 7zn, giiuxjotm zu g xkvuxz
xkiktzre xkikobkj, znkxk oy muuj igayk zu vxkyask zngz oz corr hk ykzzrkj
ot znk iuaxyk ul znk ktyaotm ekgx.

Oz oy g igayk ul ykxouay xkmxkz zngz tu gxxgtmksktz ngy ekz hkkt lotgrre
iutirajkj hkzckkt znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy zu ykiaxk he puotz iuuvkxgzout znk
yavvxkyyout ul znk yrgbk zxgjk. Oz cgy znk uhpkiz ul znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz
ot znk kgxre yzgmky ul znk tkmuzogzout zu gjuvz g vrgt lux znk yavvxkyyout
cnoin ynuarj otirajk znk iutikyyout ul znk sazagr xomnz ul ykgxin he znk
ynovy ul cgx ul kgin vgxze ul znk bkyykry ul znk uznkx lux yayvkizkj
ullktjkxy. Znoy cgy uhpkizkj zu he znoy Mubkxtsktz ut znk vxotiovrk zngz gy
znk xomnz ul ykgxin cgy g xomnz ul cgx ul g hkrromkxktz zucgxj g tkazxgr
vuckx oz somnz ngbk gt orr kllkiz zu kdzktj oz he zxkgze, zu gt ullktyk
cnoin ngj hkkt sgjk iusvgxgzobkre sorj, zu g zosk ul vkgik.

Gtdouay, nuckbkx, lux znk yavvxkyyout ul znoy zxgjk, oz cgy znuamnz
gjboyghrk, ot iusvrogtik cozn g xkyurazout ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky,
luatjkj ut gt giz ul Iutmxkyy, zu vxuvuyk zu znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz gt
kdvkjoktz cnoin ynuarj hk lxkk lxus zngz uhpkizout gtj suxk kllkizagr lux
znk uhpkiz, he sgqotm oz voxgzoigr. Ot zngz sujk znk ktuxsoze ul znk ixosk
cuarj vrgik znk ullktjkxy uaz ul znk vxuzkizout ul znkox Mubkxtsktz, gtj
otburbk tu wakyzout ul ykgxin ux uznkx wakyzout hkzckkt znk vgxzoky
zuainotm znkox xkyvkizobk xomnzy. Oz cgy hkrokbkj, gryu, zngz oz cuarj
iusvrkzkre yavvxkyy znk zxgjk ot znk bkyykry ul huzn vgxzoky, gtj he znkox
xkyvkizobk iozofkty gtj yahpkizy ot znuyk ul uznkx vuckxy, cozn cnus oz cgy
nuvkj zngz znk ujoas cnoin cuarj znkxkhe hk gzzginkj zu oz cuarj vxujaik g
iuxxkyvutjotm gxxgtmksktz, gtj he skgty znkxkul ozy ktzoxk kdzoxvgzout
luxkbkx.

G iutbktzout zu znoy kllkiz cgy iutirajkj gtj yomtkj ot Rutjut ut
Sgxin 13zn, 1824, he vrktovuzktzogxoky jare gaznuxofkj he huzn
Mubkxtsktzy, zu znk xgzoloigzout ul cnoin ikxzgot uhyzgirky ngbk gxoykt
cnoin gxk tuz ekz ktzoxkre xksubkj. Znk jollkxktik hkzckkt znk vgxzoky
yzorr xksgototm ngy hkkt xkjaikj zu g vuotz tuz ul yalloioktz sgmtozajk,
gy oy vxkyaskj, zu hk vkxsozzkj zu jklkgz gt uhpkiz yu tkgx zu znk nkgxz
ul huzn tgzouty gtj yu jkyoxghrk zu znk lxoktjy ul nasgtoze znxuamnuaz
znk cuxrj. Gy uhpkizouty, nuckbkx, zu znk vxotiovrk xkiussktjkj he znk
Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky, ux gz rkgyz zu znk iutykwaktiky otykvgxghrk
lxus oz, gtj cnoin gxk atjkxyzuuj zu gvvre zu znk rgc, ngbk hkkt xgoykj,
cnoin sge jkykxbk g xkiutyojkxgzout ul znk cnurk yahpkiz, O ngbk znuamnz
oz vxuvkx zu yayvktj znk iutirayout ul g tkc iutbktzout atzor znk
jklotozobk yktzosktzy ul Iutmxkyy sge hk gyikxzgotkj. Znk juiasktzy
xkrgzotm zu znk tkmuzogzout gxk cozn zngz otzktz yahsozzkj zu euax
iutyojkxgzout.

Uax iusskxik cozn Yckjkt ngy hkkt vrgikj ut g luuzotm ul vkxlkiz
xkiovxuioze he zxkgze, gtj cozn Xayyog, znk Tkznkxrgtjy, Vxayyog, znk lxkk
Ngtykgzoi iozoky, znk Jaqkjus ul Urjkthaxm, gtj Ygxjotog he otzkxtgr
xkmargzouty ut kgin yojk, luatjkj ut sazagr gmxkksktz hkzckkt znk
xkyvkizobk Mubkxtsktzy.

Znk vxotiovrky avut cnoin znk iusskxiogr vuroie ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy
luatjkj gxk zu hk zxgikj zu gt kgxre vkxouj. Znke gxk kyyktzogrre iuttkizkj
cozn znuyk avut cnoin znkox otjkvktjktik cgy jkirgxkj, gtj uck znkox uxomot
zu znk ktromnzktkj skt cnu zuuq znk rkgj ot uax gllgoxy gz zngz osvuxzgtz
kvuin. Znke gxk jkbkruvkj ot znkox loxyz zxkgze ul iusskxik cozn Lxgtik ul
Lkhxagxe 6zn, 1778, gtj he g luxsgr iussoyyout cnoin cgy otyzozazkj
Osskjogzkre glzkx znk iutirayout ul znkox Xkburazoutgxe yzxammrk, lux znk
vaxvuyk ul tkmuzogzotm zxkgzoky ul iusskxik cozn kbkxe Kaxuvkgt vuckx. Znk
loxyz zxkgze ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cozn Vxayyog, cnoin cgy tkmuzogzkj he
zngz iussoyyout, glluxjy g yomtgr orrayzxgzout ul znuyk vxotiovrky. Znk giz
ul Iutmxkyy ul Sgxin 3xj, 1815, gjuvzkj osskjogzkre glzkx znk xkzaxt ul g
mktkxgr vkgik, cgy g tkc ubkxzaxk zu luxkomt tgzouty zu kyzghroyn uax
iusskxiogr xkrgzouty cozn znks ut znk hgyoy ul lxkk gtj kwagr xkiovxuioze.
Zngz vxotiovrk ngy vkxbgjkj grr znk gizy ul Iutmxkyy gtj grr znk
tkmuzogzouty ul znk Kdkiazobk ut znk yahpkiz.

G iutbktzout lux znk ykzzrksktz ul osvuxzgtz wakyzouty ot xkrgzout zu znk
Tuxzn Ckyz iugyz ul znoy iutzotktz gtj ozy gjpuototm ykgy cgy iutirajkj gtj
yomtkj gz Yz. Vkzkxyhaxm ut znk 5zn jge ul Gvxor rgyz he znk sotoyzkx
vrktovuzktzogxe ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj vrktovuzktzogxoky ul znk Osvkxogr
Mubkxtsktz ul Xayyog. Oz corr osskjogzkre hk rgoj hkluxk znk Yktgzk lux znk
kdkxioyk ul znk iutyzozazoutgr gaznuxoze ul zngz huje cozn xklkxktik zu ozy
xgzoloigzout. Oz oy vxuvkx zu gjj zngz znk sgttkx ot cnoin znoy tkmuzogzout
cgy otbozkj gtj iutjaizkj ut znk vgxz ul znk Ksvkxux ngy hkkt bkxe
ygzoylgizuxe.

Znk mxkgz gtj kdzxguxjotgxe ingtmky cnoin ngbk ngvvktkj ot znk Mubkxtsktzy
ul Yvgot gtj Vuxzamgr coznot znk rgyz zcu ekgxy, coznuaz ykxouayre
gllkizotm znk lxoktjre xkrgzouty cnoin atjkx grr ul znks ngbk hkkt
sgotzgotkj cozn znuyk vuckxy he znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ngbk hkkt uhyzgirky zu
znk gjpayzsktz ul znk vgxzoiargx yahpkizy ul joyiayyout cnoin ngbk gxoykt
cozn kgin. G xkyurazout ul znk Yktgzk gjuvzkj gz znkox rgyz ykyyout igrrkj
lux otluxsgzout gy zu znk kllkiz vxujaikj avut uax xkrgzouty cozn Yvgot he
znk xkiumtozout ut znk vgxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ul znk otjkvktjktz Yuazn
Gskxoigt Mubkxtsktzy. Znk vgvkxy iutzgototm zngz otluxsgzout gxk tuc
iussatoigzkj zu Iutmxkyy.

G ingxmk j'gllgoxky ngy hkkt xkikobkj lxus znk otjkvktjktz Mubkxtsktz ul
Hxgfor. Zngz iuatzxe, nkxkzuluxk g iurutogr vuyykyyout ul Vuxzamgr, ngj
yusk ekgxy yotik hkkt vxuirgoskj he znk Yubkxkomt ul Vuxzamgr nosykrl gt
otjkvktjktz Qotmjus. Yotik noy xkzaxt zu Royhut g xkburazout ot Hxgfor ngy
kyzghroynkj g tkc Mubkxtsktz znkxk cozn gt osvkxogr zozrk, gz znk nkgj ul
cnoin oy vrgikj g vxotik, ot cnus znk xkmktie ngj hkkt bkyzkj he znk Qotm
gz znk zosk ul noy jkvgxzaxk. Znkxk oy xkgyut zu kdvkiz zngz he gsoighrk
tkmuzogzout znk otjkvktjktik ul Hxgfor corr kxk rutm hk xkiumtofkj he
Vuxzamgr nkxykrl.

Cozn znk xksgototm vuckxy ul Kaxuvk, cozn znuyk ut znk iugyz ul Hgxhgxe,
gtj cozn grr znk tkc Yuazn Gskxoigt Yzgzky uax xkrgzouty gxk ul g lxoktjre
ingxgizkx. Ck ngbk sotoyzkxy vrktovuzktzogxe xkyojotm cozn znk Xkvahroiy ul
Iurushog gtj Inork, gtj ngbk xkikobkj sotoyzkxy ul znk ygsk xgtq lxus
Iurashog, Magzksgrg, Haktuy Gexky, gtj Skdoiu. Uax iusskxiogr xkrgzouty
cozn grr znuyk Yzgzky gxk sazagrre hktkloiogr gtj otixkgyotm. Cozn znk
Xkvahroi ul Iurushog g zxkgze ul iusskxik ngy hkkt luxskj, ul cnoin g iuve
oy xkikobkj gtj znk uxomotgr jgore kdvkizkj. G tkmuzogzout lux g roqk
zxkgze cuarj ngbk hkkt iussktikj cozn Haktuy Gexky ngj oz tuz hkkt
vxkbktzkj he znk otjoyvuyozout gtj rgsktzkj jkikgyk ul Sx. Xujtke, uax
sotoyzkx znkxk, gtj zu cnuyk sksuxe znk suyz xkyvkizlar gzzktzout ngy hkkt
ynkct he znk Mubkxtsktz ul zngz Xkvahroi. Gt gjbgtzgmkuay grzkxgzout ot uax
zxkgze cozn Zatoy ngy hkkt uhzgotkj he uax iutyargx gmktz xkyojotm znkxk,
znk ulloiogr juiasktz ul cnoin cnkt xkikobkj corr hk rgoj hkluxk znk
Yktgzk.

Znk gzzktzout ul znk Mubkxtsktz ngy hkkt jxgct cozn mxkgz yuroiozajk zu
uznkx yahpkizy, gtj vgxzoiargxre zu zngz xkrgzotm zu g yzgzk ul sgxozosk
cgx, otburbotm znk xkrgzobk xomnzy ul tkazxgr gtj hkrromkxktz ot yain cgxy.
Suyz ul znk jolloiarzoky cnoin ck ngbk kdvkxoktikj gtj ul znk ruyyky cnoin
ck ngbk yayzgotkj yotik znk kyzghroynsktz ul uax otjkvktjktik ngbk
vxuikkjkj lxus znk atykzzrkj yzgzk ul znuyk xomnzy gtj znk kdzktz zu cnoin
znk hkrromkxktz irgos ngy hkkt igxxokj gmgotyz znk tkazxgr vgxze.

Oz oy osvuyyohrk zu ruuq hgiq ut znk uiiaxxktiky ul znk rgzk cgxy ot
Kaxuvk, gtj zu hknurj znk joyxkmgxj cnoin cgy vgoj zu uax xomnzy gy g
tkazxgr vuckx, gtj znk cgyzk cnoin cgy sgjk ul uax iusskxik he znk vgxzoky
zu znuyk cgxy he bgxouay gizy ul znkox xkyvkizobk Mubkxtsktzy, gtj atjkx
znk vxkzkdz he kgin zngz znk uznkx ngj ykz znk kdgsvrk, coznuaz mxkgz
suxzoloigzout gtj g lodkj vaxvuyk tkbkx zu yahsoz zu znk roqk ot lazaxk. Gt
gzzksvz zu xksubk znuyk igayky ul vuyyohrk bgxogtik he lxoktjre tkmuzogzout
gtj ut payz vxotiovrky cnoin ynuarj hk gvvroighrk zu grr vgxzoky iuarj, oz
cgy vxkyaskj, hk bokckj he tutk uznkx zngt gy g vxuul ul gt kgxtkyz jkyoxk
zu vxkykxbk znuyk xkrgzouty cozn kbkxe vuckx.

Ot znk rgzk cgx hkzckkt Lxgtik gtj Yvgot g ixoyoy uiiaxxkj ot cnoin oz
ykkskj vxuhghrk zngz grr iutzxubkxzohrk vxotiovrky otburbkj ot yain cgxy
somnz hk hxuamnz otzu joyiayyout gtj ykzzrkj zu znk ygzoylgizout ul grr
vgxzoky. Vxuvuyozouty ngbotm znoy uhpkiz ot bokc ngbk hkkt sgjk zu znk
Mubkxtsktzy ul Mxkgz Hxozgot, Lxgtik, Xayyog, gtj ul uznkx vuckxy, cnoin
ngbk hkkt xkikobkj ot g lxoktjre sgttkx he grr, haz gy ekz tu zxkgze ngy
hkkt luxskj cozn koznkx lux ozy giiusvroynsktz. Znk vuroie corr, oz oy
vxkyaskj, hk vkxykbkxkj ot, gtj ot znk nuvk zngz oz sge hk yaiikyylar.

Oz corr grcgey hk xkiurrkizkj zngz cozn utk ul znk vgxzoky zu znuyk cgxy
gtj lxus cnus ck xkikobkj znuyk otpaxoky, ck yuamnz xkjxkyy he cgx. Lxus
znk uznkx, he cnuyk znkt xkomtotm Mubkxtsktz uax bkyykry ckxk ykofkj ot
vuxz gy ckrr gy gz ykg gtj znkox igxmuky iutloyigzkj, otjkstoze ngy hkkt
kdvkizkj, haz ngy tuz ekz hkkt xktjkxkj. Oz cgy atjkx znk otlraktik ul znk
rgzzkx zngz uax bkyykry ckxk roqkcoyk ykofkj he znk Mubkxtsktzy ul Yvgot,
Nurrgtj, Jktsgxq, Yckjkt, gtj Tgvrky, gtj lxus cnus otjkstoze ngy hkkt
irgoskj gtj oy yzorr kdvkizkj, cozn znk kdikvzout ul Yvgot, he cnus oz ngy
hkkt xktjkxkj.

Cozn huzn vgxzoky ck ngj ghatjgtz igayk ul cgx, haz ck ngj tu grzkxtgzobk
haz zu xkyoyz zngz cnoin cgy suyz vuckxlar gz ykg gtj vxkyykj ay tkgxkyz gz
nusk. Cozn znoy grr jollkxktiky ckxk ykzzrkj he g zxkgze, luatjkj ut
iutjozouty lgox gtj nutuxghrk zu huzn, gtj cnoin ngy hkkt yu lgx kdkiazkj
cozn vkxlkiz muuj lgozn. Oz ngy hkkt kgxtkyzre nuvkj zngz znk uznkx cuarj
ul ozy uct giiuxj, gtj lxus g yktzosktz ul payzoik gtj iutiorogzout, sgqk
zu uax iozofkty znk otjkstoze zu cnoin znke gxk ktzozrkj, gtj znkxkhe
xksubk lxus uax xkrgzouty gte payz igayk ul joyiutzktz ut uax yojk.

Oz oy kyzosgzkj zngz znk xkikovzy otzu znk Zxkgyaxe jaxotm znk iaxxktz
ekgx, kdirayobk ul rugty, corr kdikkj $18.5 sorrouty, cnoin, cozn znk
yas xksgototm ot znk Zxkgyaxe gz znk ktj ul znk rgyz ekgx, gsuatzotm
zu $9,463,922.81 corr, glzkx joyingxmotm znk iaxxktz joyhaxyksktzy ul
znk ekgx, znk otzkxkyz ut znk vahroi jkhz, gtj avcgxj ul $11,633,011.52
ul znk vxotiovgr, rkgbk g hgrgtik ul suxk zngt $3 sorrouty ot znk Zxkgyaxe
ut znk loxyz jge ul Pgtagxe tkdz.

G rgxmkx gsuatz ul znk jkhz iutzxgizkj jaxotm znk rgzk cgx, hkgxotm gt
otzkxkyz ul 6%, hkiusotm xkjkksghrk ot znk iuaxyk ul znk ktyaotm ekgx zngt
iuarj hk joyingxmkj he znk uxjotgxe xkbktak, znk giz ul znk 26zn ul Sge
gaznuxofkj g rugt ul $5 sorrouty gz 4.5% zu skkz znk ygsk. He znoy
gxxgtmksktz gt gttagr ygbotm corr giixak zu znk vahroi ul $75,000.

Atjkx znk giz ul znk 24zn ul Sge rgyz g rugt ul $5 sorrouty cgy gaznuxofkj,
Ot uxjkx zu skkz znk gcgxjy atjkx znk Lruxojg zxkgze, cnoin cgy tkmuzogzkj
gz vgx cozn znk Hgtq ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gz 4.5%, znk rosoz ul otzkxkyz
lodkj he znk giz. He znoy vxuboyout znk irgosy ul uax iozofkty cnu ngj
yayzgotkj yu mxkgz g ruyy he yvurogzouty, gtj lxus cnus otjkstoze ngj hkkt
yu rutm coznnkrj, ckxk vxusvzre vgoj. Lux znkyk gjbgtiky znk vahroi corr
hk gsvre xkvgoj gz tu joyzgtz jge he znk ygrk ul znk rgtjy ot Lruxojg. Ul
znk mxkgz gjbgtzgmky xkyarzotm lxus znk giwaoyozout ul znk Zkxxozuxe ot
uznkx xkyvkizy zuu nomn gt kyzosgzk igt tuz hk luxskj.

Oz oy kyzosgzkj zngz znk xkikovzy otzu znk Zxkgyaxe jaxotm znk ekgx 1825
corr hk yalloioktz zu skkz znk joyhaxyksktzy ul znk ekgx, otirajotm znk
yas ul $10 sorrouty, cnoin oy gttagrre gvvxuvxogzkj he znk giz ul
iutyzozazotm znk yotqotm latj zu znk vgesktz ul znk vxotiovgr gtj otzkxkyz
ul znk vahroi jkhz.

Znk cnurk gsuatz ul znk vahroi jkhz ut znk loxyz ul Pgtagxe tkdz sge hk
kyzosgzkj gz $86 sorrouty, otirayobk ul $2.5 sorrouty ul znk rugt
gaznuxofkj he znk giz ul znk 26zn ul Sge rgyz. Ot znoy kyzosgzk oy
otirajkj g yzuiq ul $7 sorrouty, oyyakj lux znk vaxingyk ul zngz gsuatz
ul znk igvozgr yzuiq ul znk Hgtq ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj cnoin, gy znk
yzuiq ul znk hgtq yzorr nkrj he znk Mubkxtsktz corr gz rkgyz hk larre
kwagr zu ozy xkoshaxyksktz, uamnz tuz zu hk iutyojkxkj gy iutyzozazotm
g vgxz ul znk vahroi jkhz.

Kyzosgzotm, znkt, znk cnurk gsuatz ul znk vahroi jkhz gz $79 sorrouty
gtj xkmgxjotm znk gttagr xkikovzy gtj kdvktjozaxky ul znk Mubkxtsktz, g
ckrr-luatjkj nuvk sge hk ktzkxzgotkj zngz, ynuarj tu atkdvkizkj kbktz
uiiax, znk cnurk ul znk vahroi jkhz sge hk joyingxmkj ot znk iuaxyk ul
zkt ekgxy, gtj znk Mubkxtsktz hk rklz gz rohkxze znkxkglzkx zu gvvre yain
vuxzout ul znk xkbktak gy sge tuz hk tkikyygxe lux iaxxktz kdvktyky zu
yain uznkx uhpkizy gy sge hk suyz iutjaiobk zu znk vahroi ykiaxoze gtj
ckrlgxk. Zngz znk yasy gvvroighrk zu znkyk uhpkizy corr hk bkxe
iutyojkxghrk sge hk lgoxre iutirajkj cnkt oz oy xkiurrkizkj zngz g
rgxmk gsuatz ul znk vahroi xkbktak ngy hkkt gvvrokj yotik znk rgzk
cgx zu znk iutyzxaizout ul znk vahroi haorjotmy ot znoy ioze; zu znk
kxkizout ul luxzoloigzouty grutm znk iugyz gtj ul gxyktgry ot jollkxktz
vgxzy ul znk Atout; zu znk gamsktzgzout ul znk Tgbe; zu znk kdzotmaoynsktz
ul znk Otjogt zozrk zu rgxmk zxgizy ul lkxzork zkxxozuxe; zu znk
giwaoyozout ul Lruxojg; zu vktyouty zu Xkburazoutgxe ulloikxy gtj
yurjokxy, gtj zu otbgrojy ul znk rgzk cgx.

Ut sgte ul znkyk uhpkizy znk kdvktyk corr gttagrre hk josotoynkj gtj ikgyk
gz tu joyzgtz vkxouj ut suyz ul znks.

Ut znk 1yz ul Pgtagxe, 1817, znk vahroi jkhz gsuatzkj zu $123,491,965.16,
gtj, tuzcoznyzgtjotm znk rgxmk yasy cnoin ngbk hkkt gvvrokj zu znkyk
uhpkizy, oz ngy hkkt xkjaikj yotik zngz vkxouj $37,446,961.78. Znk rgyz
vuxzout ul znk vahroi jkhz corr hk xkjkksghrk ut Pgtagxe 1yz, 1835, gtj,
cnork znkxk oy znk hkyz xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz znk xkyuaxiky ul znk
Mubkxtsktz corr hk iutzotagrre gjkwagzk zu yain vuxzouty ul oz gy sge
hkiusk jak ot znk otzkxbgr, oz oy xkiussktjkj zu Iutmxkyy zu ykofk kbkxe
uvvuxzatoze cnoin sge vxkyktz ozykrl zu xkjaik znk xgzk ul otzkxkyz ut
kbkxe vgxz znkxkul. Znk nomn yzgzk ul znk vahroi ixkjoz gtj znk mxkgz
ghatjgtik ul sutke gxk gz znoy zosk bkxe lgbuxghrk zu yain g xkyarz. Oz
sayz hk bkxe mxgzoleotm zu uax lkrruc iozofkty zu coztkyy znoy lruaxoynotm
yzgzk ul znk vahroi lotgtiky cnkt oz oy xkiurrkizkj zngz tu haxznkt
cngzkbkx ngy hkkt osvuykj avut znks.

Znk sorozgxe kyzghroynsktz ot grr ozy hxgtinky, ot znk vkxluxsgtik ul znk
bgxouay jazoky gyyomtkj zu kgin, payzoloky znk lgbuxghrk bokc cnoin cgy
vxkyktzkj ul znk klloioktie ul ozy uxmgtofgzout gz znk rgyz ykyyout. Grr
znk gvvxuvxogzouty ngbk hkkt xkmargxre gvvrokj zu znk uhpkizy otzktjkj he
Iutmxkyy, gtj yu lgx gy znk joyhaxyksktzy ngbk hkkt sgjk znk giiuatzy ngbk
hkkt xktjkxkj gtj ykzzrkj coznuaz ruyy zu znk vahroi.

Znk iutjozout ul znk Gxse ozykrl, gy xkrgzky zu znk ulloikxy gtj skt, ot
yioktik gtj joyiovrotk oy nomnre xkyvkizghrk. Znk Sorozgxe Gigjkse, ut
cnoin znk Gxse kyyktzogrre xkyzy, gtj zu cnoin oz oy sain otjkhzkj lux znoy
yzgzk ul osvxubksktz, ngy gzzgotkj, ot iusvgxoyut cozn gte uznkx
otyzozazout ul g roqk qotj, g nomn jkmxkk ul vkxlkizout.

Kdvkxoktik, nuckbkx, ngy ynkct zngz znk joyvkxykj iutjozout ul znk iuxvy ul
gxzorrkxe oy atlgbuxghrk zu znk joyiovrotk ul zngz osvuxzgtz hxgtin ul znk
sorozgxe kyzghroynsktz. Zu xkskje znoy otiutbktoktik, krkbkt iusvgtoky ngbk
hkkt gyykshrkj gz znk luxzoloigzout kxkizkj gz Urj Vuotz Iusluxz gy g
yinuur lux gxzorrkxe otyzxaizout, cozn otzktzout gy znke yngrr hk vkxlkizkj
ot znk bgxouay jazoky ul zngz ykxboik zu uxjkx znks zu uznkx vuyzy, gtj, zu
yavvre znkox vrgiky cozn uznkx iusvgtoky lux otyzxaizout ot roqk sgttkx. Ot
znoy sujk g iusvrkzk qtucrkjmk ul znk yioktik gtj jazoky ul znoy gxs corr
hk kdzktjkj znxuamnuaz znk cnurk iuxvy ul gxzorrkxe. Haz zu igxxe znoy
uhpkiz larre otzu kllkiz corr xkwaoxk znk goj ul Iutmxkyy, zu uhzgot cnoin
znk yahpkiz oy tuc yahsozzkj zu euax iutyojkxgzout.

Ul znk vxumxkyy cnoin ngy hkkt sgjk ot znk iutyzxaizout ul luxzoloigzouty
lux znk vkxsgtktz jklktyk ul uax sgxozosk lxutzokx, giiuxjotm zu znk vrgt
jkiojkj ut gtj zu znk kdzktz ul znk kdoyzotm gvvxuvxogzouty, znk xkvuxz ul
znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx, cnoin oy nkxkcozn iussatoigzkj, corr mobk g jkzgorkj
giiuatz. Znkox lotgr iusvrkzout igt tuz lgor zu mobk mxkgz gjjozoutgr
ykiaxoze zu zngz lxutzokx, gtj zu josotoyn vxuvuxzoutghre znk kdvktyk ul
jklktjotm oz ot znk kbktz ul cgx.

Znk vxuboyouty ot ykbkxgr gizy ul Iutmxkyy ul znk rgyz ykyyout lux znk
osvxubksktz ul znk tgbomgzout ul znk Soyyoyyovvo gtj znk Unou, ul znk
ngxhux ul Vxkywa'oyrk, ut Rgqk Kxok, gtj znk xkvgox ul znk Vresuazn hkgin
gxk ot g iuaxyk ul xkmargx kdkiazout; gtj znkxk oy xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz
znk gvvxuvxogzout ot kgin otyzgtik corr hk gjkwagzk zu znk uhpkiz. Zu igxxe
znkyk osvxubksktzy larre otzu kllkiz, znk yavkxotzktjktik ul znks ngy hkkt
gyyomtkj zu ulloikxy ul znk Iuxvy ul Ktmotkkxy.

Atjkx znk giz ul 30zn Gvxor rgyz, gaznuxofotm znk Vxkyojktz zu igayk g
yaxbke zu hk sgjk, cozn znk tkikyygxe vrgty gtj kyzosgzky, ul yain xugjy
gtj igtgry gy nk somnz jkks ul tgzoutgr osvuxzgtik ot g iusskxiogr ux
sorozgxe vuotz ul bokc, ux lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgor, g hugxj ngy
hkkt otyzozazkj, iutyoyzotm ul zcu joyzotmaoynkj ulloikxy ul znk Iuxvy ul
Ktmotkkxy gtj g joyzotmaoynkj iobor ktmotkkx, cozn gyyoyzgtzy, cnu ngbk
hkkt gizobkre ksvruekj ot igxxeotm otzu kllkiz znk uhpkiz ul znk giz. Znke
ngbk igxklarre kdgsotkj znk xuazk hkzckkt znk Vuzusgi gtj znk Unou xobkxy;
hkzckkt znk rgzzkx gtj Rgqk Kxok; hkzckkt znk Grrkmngte gtj znk
Yaywakngttgn; gtj znk xuazky hkzckkt znk Jkrgcgxk gtj znk Xgxozgt,
Hgxtyzghrk gtj Haffgxjy Hge, gtj hkzckkt Huyzut Ngxhux gtj Tgxxgmgtykz Hge.
Yain vuxzout ul znk Iuxvy ul Zuvumxgvnoigr Ktmotkkxy gy iuarj hk yvgxkj
lxus znk yaxbke ul znk iugyz ngy hkkt ksvruekj ot yaxbkeotm znk bkxe
osvuxzgtz xuazk hkzckkt znk Vuzusgi gtj znk Unou. Iutyojkxghrk vxumxkyy ngy
hkkt sgjk ot oz, haz znk yaxbke igt tuz hk iusvrkzkj atzor znk tkdz ykgyut.
Oz oy mxgzoleotm zu gjj, lxus znk bokc grxkgje zgqkt, zngz znkxk oy muuj
igayk zu hkrokbk zngz znoy mxkgz tgzoutgr uhpkiz sge hk larre
giiusvroynkj.

Oz oy iutzksvrgzkj zu iussktik kgxre ot znk tkdz ykgyut znk kdkiazout ul
znk uznkx hxgtin ul znk giz--zngz cnoin xkrgzky zu xugjy--gtj cozn znk
yaxbke ul g xuazk lxus znoy ioze, znxuamn znk Yuaznkxt Yzgzky, zu Tkc
Uxrkgty, znk osvuxzgtik ul cnoin igt tuz hk zuu nomnre kyzosgzkj. Grr znk
ulloikxy ul huzn znk iuxvy ul ktmotkkxy cnu iuarj hk yvgxkj lxus uznkx
ykxboiky ngbk hkkt ksvruekj ot kdvruxotm gtj yaxbkeotm znk xuazky lux
igtgry. Zu jomkyz g vrgt lux huzn uhpkizy lux znk mxkgz vaxvuyky yvkiolokj
corr xkwaoxk g znuxuamn qtucrkjmk ul kbkxe vgxz ul uax Atout gtj ul znk
xkrgzout ul kgin vgxz zu znk uznkxy gtj ul grr zu znk ykgz ul znk Mktkxgr
Mubkxtsktz. Lux yain g jomkyz oz corr hk tkikyygxe zngz znk otluxsgzout hk
larr, sotazk, gtj vxkioyk.

Cozn g bokc zu znkyk osvuxzgtz uhpkizy, O yahsoz zu znk iutyojkxgzout ul
znk Iutmxkyy znk vxuvxokze ul ktrgxmotm huzn znk iuxvy ul ktmotkkxy--znk
sorozgxe gtj zuvumxgvnoigr. Oz tkkj yigxikre hk xksgxqkj zngz znk suxk
kdzktyobkre znkyk iuxvy gxk ktmgmkj ot znk osvxubksktz ul znkox iuatzxe, ot
znk kdkiazout ul znk vuckxy ul Iutmxkyy, gtj ot goj ul znk Yzgzky ot yain
osvxubksktzy gy rok hkeutj zngz rosoz, cnkt yain goj oy jkyoxkj, znk
ngvvokx znk kllkiz corr hk ot sgte bokcy ul cnoin znk yahpkiz oy
vkxikvzohrk. He vxulozotm ul znkox yioktik znk cuxqy corr grcgey hk ckrr
kdkiazkj, gtj he mobotm zu znk ulloikxy yain ksvruesktz uax Atout corr
jkxobk grr znk gjbgtzgmk, ot vkgik gy ckrr gy ot cgx, lxus znkox zgrktzy
gtj ykxboiky cnoin znke igt glluxj. Ot znoy sujk, gryu, znk sorozgxe corr
hk otiuxvuxgzkj cozn znk iobor, gtj atluatjkj gtj otpaxouay joyzotizouty
gtj vxkpajoiky ul kbkxe qotj hk jutk gcge. Zu znk iuxvy znksykrbky znoy
ykxboik igt tuz lgor zu hk kwagrre ayklar, yotik he znk qtucrkjmk znke
cuarj znay giwaoxk znke cuarj hk ksotktzre hkzzkx wagrolokj ot znk kbktz ul
cgx lux znk mxkgz vaxvuyky lux cnoin znke ckxk otyzozazkj.

Uax xkrgzouty cozn znk Otjogt zxohky coznot uax rosozy ngbk tuz hkkt
sgzkxogrre ingtmkj jaxotm znk ekgx. Znk nuyzork joyvuyozout kbotikj he
ikxzgot zxohky ut znk Soyyuaxo jaxotm znk rgyz ekgx yzorr iutzotaky, gtj
ngy kdzktjkj ot yusk jkmxkk zu znuyk ut znk Avvkx Soyyoyyovvo gtj znk Avvkx
Rgqky. Ykbkxgr vgxzoky ul uax iozofkty ngbk hkkt vratjkxkj gtj saxjkxkj he
znuyk zxohky. Ot uxjkx zu kyzghroyn xkrgzouty ul lxoktjynov cozn znks,
Iutmxkyy gz znk rgyz ykyyout sgjk gt gvvxuvxogzout lux zxkgzoky cozn znks
gtj lux znk ksvruesktz ul g yaozghrk sorozgxe kyiuxz zu giiusvgte gtj
gzzktj znk iussoyyoutkxy gz znk vrgiky gvvuotzkj lux znk tkmuzogzouty. Znoy
uhpkiz ngy tuz hkkt kllkizkj. Znk ykgyut cgy zuu lgx gjbgtikj cnkt znk
gvvxuvxogzout cgy sgjk gtj znk joyzgtik zuu mxkgz zu vkxsoz oz, haz
skgyaxky ngbk hkkt zgqkt, gtj grr znk vxkvgxgzouty corr hk iusvrkzkj zu
giiusvroyn oz gz gt kgxre vkxouj ot znk tkdz ykgyut.

Hkrokbotm zngz znk nuyzoroze ul znk zxohky, vgxzoiargxre ut znk Avvkx
Soyyoyyovvo gtj znk Rgqky, oy ot tu ysgrr jkmxkk ucotm zu znk cgxy cnoin
gxk igxxokj ut hkzckkt znk zxohky xkyojotm ot zngz wagxzkx, skgyaxky ngbk
hkkt zgqkt zu hxotm ghuaz g mktkxgr vkgik gsutm znks, cnoin, ol yaiikyylar,
corr tuz utre zktj zu znk ykiaxoze ul uax iozofkty, haz hk ul mxkgz
gjbgtzgmk zu znk Otjogty znksykrbky.

Cozn znk kdikvzout ul znk zxohky xklkxxkj zu, uax xkrgzouty cozn grr znk
uznkxy gxk ut znk ygsk lxoktjre luuzotm, gtj oz glluxjy sk mxkgz
ygzoylgizout zu gjj zngz znke gxk sgqotm yzkgje gjbgtiky ot ioborofgzout
gtj znk osvxubksktz ul znkox iutjozout. Sgte ul znk zxohky ngbk grxkgje
sgjk mxkgz vxumxkyy ot znk gxzy ul ioborofkj rolk. Znoy jkyoxghrk xkyarz
ngy hkkt hxuamnz ghuaz he znk nasgtk gtj vkxykbkxotm vuroie ul znk
Mubkxtsktz, gtj vgxzoiargxre he skgty ul znk gvvxuvxogzout lux znk
ioborofgzout ul znk Otjogty. Znkxk ngbk hkkt kyzghroynkj atjkx znk
vxuboyouty ul znoy giz 32 yinuury, iutzgototm 916 yinurgxy, cnu gxk ckrr
otyzxaizkj ot ykbkxgr hxgtinky ul rozkxgzaxk, gtj roqkcoyk ot gmxoiarzaxk
gtj znk uxjotgxe gxzy ul rolk.

Atjkx znk gvvxuvxogzout zu gaznuxofk zxkgzoky cozn znk Ixkkqy gtj Wagavgc
Otjogty iussoyyoutkxy ngbk hkkt gvvuotzkj gtj tkmuzogzouty gxk tuc vktjotm,
haz znk xkyarz oy tuz ekz qtuct.

Lux suxk larr otluxsgzout xkyvkizotm znk vxotiovrk cnoin ngy hkkt gjuvzkj
lux igxxeotm otzu kllkiz znk giz ul Iutmxkyy gaznuxofotm yaxbkey, cozn
vrgty gtj kyzosgzky lux igtgry gtj xugjy, gtj ut kbkxe uznkx hxgtin ul jaze
otiojktz zu znk Jkvgxzsktz ul Cgx, O xklkx eua zu znk xkvuxz ul znk
Ykixkzgxe.

Znk ywagjxut ot znk Skjozkxxgtkgt ngy hkkt sgotzgotkj ot znk kdzktz cnoin
cgy vxuvuykj ot znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe ul znk rgyz ekgx,
gtj ngy glluxjkj zu uax iusskxik znk tkikyygxe vxuzkizout ot zngz ykg.
Gvvxknktjotm, nuckbkx, zngz znk atlxoktjre xkrgzouty cnoin ngbk kdoyzkj
hkzckkt Grmokxy gtj yusk ul znk vuckxy ul Kaxuvk somnz hk kdzktjkj zu ay,
oz ngy hkkt znuamnz kdvkjoktz zu gamsktz znk luxik znkxk, gtj ot
iutykwaktik znk Tuxzn Igxurotg, g ynov ul znk rotk, ngy hkkt vxkvgxkj, gtj
corr ygor ot g lkc jgey zu puot oz.

Znk luxik ksvruekj ot znk Marl ul Skdoiu gtj ot znk tkomnhuxotm ykgy lux
znk yavvxkyyout ul voxgie ngy roqkcoyk hkkt vxkykxbkj kyyktzogrre ot znk
yzgzk ot cnoin oz cgy jaxotm znk rgyz ekgx. G vkxykbkxotm klluxz ngy hkkt
sgjk lux znk giiusvroynsktz ul zngz uhpkiz, gtj sain vxuzkizout ngy znkxkhe
hkkt glluxjkj zu uax iusskxik, haz yzorr znk vxgizoik oy lgx lxus hkotm
yavvxkyykj. Lxus kbkxe bokc cnoin ngy hkkt zgqkt ul znk yahpkiz oz oy
znuamnz zngz oz corr hk tkikyygxe xgznkx zu gamsktz zngt zu josotoyn uax
luxik ot zngz wagxzkx.

Znkxk oy xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz znk voxgioky tuc iusvrgotkj ul gxk
iussozzkj he hgtjy ul xuhhkxy cnu otnghoz znk rgtj, gtj cnu, he vxkykxbotm
muuj otzkrromktik cozn znk zucty gtj ykofotm lgbuxghrk uvvuxzatozoky, xayn
luxzn gtj lgrr ut atvxuzkizkj skxingtz bkyykry, ul cnoin znke sgqk gt kgye
vxke. Znk vorrgmk znay zgqkt znke igxxe zu znkox raxqotm vrgiky, gtj
joyvuyk ul glzkxcgxjy gz vxoiky zktjotm zu ykjaik znk tkomnhuxotm
vuvargzout.

Znoy iushotgzout oy atjkxyzuuj zu hk ul mxkgz kdzktz, gtj oy znk suxk zu hk
jkvxkigzkj hkigayk znk ixosk ul voxgie oy ulzkt gzzktjkj cozn znk saxjkx ul
znk ixkcy, znkyk xuhhkxy qtucotm ol gte yaxbobkj znkox raxqotm vrgiky cuarj
hk kdvuykj gtj znke hk igamnz gtj vatoynkj. Zngz znoy gzxuiouay vxgizoik
ynuarj hk igxxokj zu yain kdzktz oy igayk ul kwagr yaxvxoyk gtj xkmxkz. Oz
oy vxkyaskj zngz oz sayz hk gzzxohazkj zu znk xkrgdkj gtj lkkhrk yzgzk ul
znk ruigr mubkxtsktzy, yotik oz oy tuz juahzkj, lxus znk nomn ingxgizkx ul
znk mubkxtux ul Iahg, cnu oy ckrr qtuct gtj sain xkyvkizkj nkxk, zngz ol nk
ngj znk vuckx nk cuarj vxusvzre yavvxkyy oz. Cnkznkx znuyk xuhhkxy ynuarj
hk vaxyakj ut znk rgtj, znk ruigr gaznuxozoky hk sgjk xkyvutyohrk lux znkyk
gzxuiozoky, ux gte uznkx skgyaxk hk xkyuxzkj zu zu yavvxkyy znks, oy
yahsozzkj zu znk iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy.

Ot kdkiazout ul znk rgcy lux znk yavvxkyyout ul znk yrgbk zxgjk g bkyykr
ngy hkkt uiigyoutgrre yktz lxus zngz ywagjxut zu znk iugyz ul Glxoig cozn
uxjkxy zu xkzaxt znktik he znk ayagr zxgiq ul znk yrgbk ynovy, gtj zu ykofk
gte ul uax bkyykry cnoin somnz hk ktmgmkj ot zngz zxgjk. Tutk ngbk hkkt
luatj, gtj oz oy hkrokbkj zngz tutk gxk znay ksvruekj. Oz oy ckrr qtuct,
nuckbkx, zngz znk zxgjk yzorr kdoyzy atjkx uznkx lrgmy.

Znk nkgrzn ul uax ywagjxut cnork gz Znusvyuty Oyrgtj ngy hkkt sain hkzzkx
jaxotm znk vxkyktz zngt oz cgy znk rgyz ykgyut. Yusk osvxubksktzy ngbk hkkt
sgjk gtj uznkxy gxk iutzksvrgzkj znkxk cnoin, oz oy hkrokbkj, corr ngbk g
bkxe ygrazgxe kllkiz.

Ut znk Vgioloi, uax iusskxik ngy sain otixkgykj, gtj ut zngz iugyz, gy ckrr
gy ut zngz ykg, znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk sgte osvuxzgtz otzkxkyzy cnoin
xkwaoxk gzzktzout gtj vxuzkizout. Oz oy znuamnz zngz grr znk iutyojkxgzouty
cnoin yammkyzkj znk kdvkjoktie ul vrgiotm g ywagjxut ut zngz ykg uvkxgzk
cozn gamsktzkj luxik lux sgotzgototm oz znkxk, gz rkgyz ot kwagr kdzktz.

Lux jkzgorkj otluxsgzout xkyvkizotm znk yzgzk ul uax sgxozosk luxik ut kgin
ykg, znk osvxubksktz tkikyygxe zu hk sgjk ut koznkx ot znk uxmgtofgzout ul
znk tgbgr kyzghroynsktz mktkxgrre, gtj ul znk rgcy lux ozy hkzzkx
mubkxtsktz O xklkx eua zu znk xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe, cnoin oy
nkxkcozn iussatoigzkj.

Znk xkbktak ul znk Vuyz Ulloik Jkvgxzsktz ngy xkikobkj g iutyojkxghrk
gamsktzgzout ot znk vxkyktz ekgx. Znk iaxxktz xkikovzy corr kdikkj znk
kdvktjozaxky, grznuamn znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgor coznot znk ekgx ngy
hkkt sain otixkgykj. G xkvuxz ul znk Vuyz Sgyzkx Mktkxgr, cnoin oy
zxgtysozzkj, corr laxtoyn ot jkzgor znk tkikyygxe otluxsgzout xkyvkizotm
znk gjsotoyzxgzout gtj vxkyktz yzgzk ul znoy Jkvgxzsktz.

Ot iutluxsoze cozn g xkyurazout ul Iutmxkyy ul znk rgyz ykyyout, gt
otbozgzout cgy mobkt zu Mktkxgr Rglgekzzk zu boyoz znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cozn
gt gyyaxgtik zngz g ynov ul cgx ynuarj gzzktj gz gte vuxz ul Lxgtik cnoin
nk somnz jkyomtgzk, zu xkikobk gtj iutbke nos gixuyy znk Gzrgtzoi, cnktkbkx
oz somnz hk iutbktoktz lux nos zu ygor. Nk jkirotkj znk ullkx ul znk vahroi
ynov lxus suzobky ul jkroigie, haz gyyaxkj sk zngz nk ngj rutm otzktjkj gtj
cuarj ikxzgotre boyoz uax Atout ot znk iuaxyk ul znk vxkyktz ekgx.

Ot Gamayz rgyz nk gxxobkj gz Tkc Euxq, cnkxk nk cgy xkikobkj cozn znk
cgxszn ul gllkizout gtj mxgzozajk zu cnoin noy bkxe osvuxzgtz gtj
joyotzkxkyzkj ykxboiky gtj ygixoloiky ot uax Xkburazoutgxe yzxammrk yu
ksotktzre ktzozrkj nos. G iuxxkyvutjotm yktzosktz ngy yotik hkkt sgtolkyzkj
ot noy lgbux znxuamnuaz kbkxe vuxzout ul uax Atout, gtj gllkizoutgzk
otbozgzouty ngbk hkkt mobkt nos zu kdzktj noy boyozy zu znks. Zu znkyk nk
ngy eokrjkj grr znk giiussujgzout ot noy vuckx. Gz kbkxe jkyomtgzkj vuotz
ul xktjkfbuay znk cnurk vuvargzout ul znk tkomnhuxotm iuatzxe ngy hkkt
gyykshrkj zu mxkkz nos, gsutm cnus oz ngy kdiozkj ot g vkiarogx sgttkx znk
yktyohoroze ul grr zu hknurj znk yaxbobotm skshkxy ul uax Xkburazoutgxe
iutzkyz, iobor gtj sorozgxe, cnu ngj yngxkj cozn nos ot znk zuory gtj
jgtmkxy ul znk cgx, sgte ul znks ot g jkixkvoz yzgzk. G suxk otzkxkyzotm
yvkizgirk, oz oy hkrokbkj, cgy tkbkx coztkyykj, hkigayk tutk iuarj hk
luatjkj ut vaxkx vxotiovrky, tutk vxuikkj lxus nomnkx ux suxk joyotzkxkyzkj
suzobky. Zngz znk lkkrotmy ul znuyk cnu ngj luamnz gtj hrkj cozn nos ot g
iussut igayk ynuarj ngbk hkkt sain kdiozkj cgy tgzaxgr.

Znkxk gxk, nuckbkx, ioxiasyzgtiky gzzktjotm znkyk otzkxbokcy cnoin vkxbgjkj
znk cnurk iussatoze gtj zuainkj znk hxkgyzy ul kbkxe gmk, kbkt znk euatmkyz
gsutm ay. Znkxk cgy tuz gt otjobojagr vxkyktz cnu ngj tuz yusk xkrgzobk cnu
ngj tuz vgxzgqkt ot znuyk yiktky, tux gt otlgtz cnu ngj tuz nkgxj znk
xkrgzout ul znks. Haz znk ioxiasyzgtik cnoin cgy suyz yktyohre lkrz, gtj
cnoin noy vxkyktik hxuamnz luxiohre zu znk xkiurrkizout ul grr, cgy znk
mxkgz igayk ot cnoin ck ckxk ktmgmkj gtj znk hrkyyotmy cnoin ck ngbk
jkxobkj lxus uax yaiikyy ot oz.

Znk yzxammrk cgy lux otjkvktjktik gtj rohkxze, vahroi gtj vkxyutgr, gtj ot
znoy ck yaiikkjkj. Znk skkzotm cozn utk cnu ngj huxtk yu joyzotmaoynkj g
vgxz ot zngz mxkgz yzxammrk, gtj lxus yain rulze gtj joyotzkxkyzkj suzobky,
iuarj tuz lgor zu gllkiz vxuluatjre kbkxe otjobojagr gtj ul kbkxe gmk. Oz
oy tgzaxgr zngz ck ynuarj grr zgqk g jkkv otzkxkyz ot noy lazaxk ckrlgxk,
gy ck ju. Noy nomn irgosy ut uax Atout gxk lkrz, gtj znk yktzosktz
atobkxygr zngz znke ynuarj hk skz ot g mktkxuay yvoxoz. Atjkx znkyk
osvxkyyouty O otbozk euax gzzktzout zu znk yahpkiz, cozn g bokc zngz,
xkmgxjotm noy bkxe osvuxzgtz ykxboiky, ruyyky, gtj ygixoloiky, g vxuboyout
sge hk sgjk gtj zktjkxkj zu nos cnoin yngrr iuxxkyvutj cozn znk yktzosktzy
gtj hk cuxzne znk ingxgizkx ul znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk.

Ot zaxtotm uax gzzktzout zu znk iutjozout ul znk ioborofkj cuxrj, ot cnoin
znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk grcgey zgqkt g jkkv otzkxkyz, oz oy mxgzoleotm zu
ykk nuc rgxmk g vuxzout ul oz oy hrkyykj cozn vkgik. Znk utre cgxy cnoin
tuc kdoyz coznot zngz rosoz gxk znuyk hkzckkt Zaxqke gtj Mxkkik, ot Kaxuvk,
gtj hkzckkt Yvgot gtj znk tkc Mubkxtsktzy, uax tkomnhuxy, ot znoy
nksoyvnkxk. Ot huzn znkyk cgxy znk igayk ul otjkvktjktik, ul rohkxze gtj
nasgtoze, iutzotaky zu vxkbgor.

Znk yaiikyy ul Mxkkik, cnkt znk xkrgzobk vuvargzout ul znk iutzktjotm
vgxzoky oy iutyojkxkj, iussgtjy uax gjsoxgzout gtj gvvrgayk, gtj zngz oz
ngy ngj g yosorgx kllkiz cozn znk tkomnhuxotm vuckxy oy uhbouay. Znk
lkkrotm ul znk cnurk ioborofkj cuxrj oy kdiozkj ot g nomn jkmxkk ot znkox
lgbux. Sge ck tuz nuvk zngz znkyk yktzosktzy, cottotm ut znk nkgxzy ul
znkox xkyvkizobk Mubkxtsktzy, sge rkgj zu g suxk jkioyobk xkyarz; zngz znke
sge vxujaik gt giiuxj gsutm znks zu xkvrgik Mxkkik ut znk mxuatj cnoin ynk
luxskxre nkrj, gtj zu cnoin nkx nkxuoi kdkxzouty gz znoy jge yu ksotktzre
ktzozrk nkx?

Cozn xkyvkiz zu znk iutzkyz zu cnoin uax tkomnhuxy gxk g vgxze, oz oy
kbojktz zngz Yvgot gy g vuckx oy yigxikre lkrz ot oz. Znkyk tkc Yzgzky ngj
iusvrkzkre ginokbkj znkox otjkvktjktik hkluxk oz cgy giqtucrkjmkj he znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj znke ngbk yotik sgotzgotkj oz cozn rozzrk luxkomt
vxkyyaxk. Znk joyzaxhgtiky cnoin ngbk gvvkgxkj ot ikxzgot vuxzouty ul zngz
bgyz zkxxozuxe ngbk vxuikkjkj lxus otzkxtgr igayky, cnoin ngj znkox uxomot
ot znkox luxskx Mubkxtsktzy gtj ngbk tuz ekz hkkt znuxuamnre xksubkj.

Oz oy sgtolkyz zngz znkyk igayky gxk jgore ruyotm znkox kllkiz, gtj zngz
znkyk tkc Yzgzky gxk ykzzrotm juct atjkx Mubkxtsktzy krkizobk gtj
xkvxkyktzgzobk ot kbkxe hxgtin, yosorgx zu uax uct. Ot znoy iuaxyk ck
gxjktzre coyn znks zu vkxykbkxk, atjkx g loxs iutboizout zngz oz corr
vxusuzk znkox ngvvotkyy. Ot znoy, znkox igxkkx, nuckbkx, ck ngbk tuz
otzkxlkxkj, hkrokbotm zngz kbkxe vkuvrk ngbk g xomnz zu otyzozazk lux
znksykrbky znk mubkxtsktz cnoin, ot znkox pajmsktz, sge yaoz znks hkyz.

Uax kdgsvrk oy hkluxk znks, ul znk muuj kllkiz ul cnoin, hkotm uax
tkomnhuxy, znke gxk iusvkzktz pajmky, gtj zu znkox pajmsktz ck rkgbk oz, ot
znk kdvkizgzout zngz uznkx vuckxy corr vaxyak znk ygsk vuroie. Znk jkkv
otzkxkyz cnoin ck zgqk ot znkox otjkvktjktik, cnoin ck ngbk giqtucrkjmkj,
gtj ot znkox ktpuesktz ul grr znk xomnzy otiojktz znkxkzu, kyvkiogrre ot
znk bkxe osvuxzgtz utk ul otyzozazotm znkox uct Mubkxtsktzy, ngy hkkt
jkirgxkj, gtj oy qtuct zu znk cuxrj.

Ykvgxgzkj gy ck gxk lxus Kaxuvk he znk mxkgz Gzrgtzoi Uikgt, ck igt ngbk tu
iutikxt ot znk cgxy ul znk Kaxuvkgt Mubkxtsktzy tux ot znk igayky cnoin
vxujaik znks. Znk hgrgtik ul vuckx hkzckkt znks, otzu cnoinkbkx yigrk oz
sge zaxt ot ozy bgxouay bohxgzouty, igt tuz gllkiz ay. Oz oy znk otzkxkyz
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu vxkykxbk znk suyz lxoktjre xkrgzouty cozn kbkxe
vuckx gtj ut iutjozouty lgox, kwagr, gtj gvvroighrk zu grr.

Haz ot xkmgxj zu uax tkomnhuxy uax yozagzout oy jollkxktz. Oz oy osvuyyohrk
lux znk Kaxuvkgt Mubkxtsktzy zu otzkxlkxk ot znkox iutikxty, kyvkiogrre ot
znuyk grrajkj zu, cnoin gxk bozgr, coznuaz gllkizotm ay; otjkkj, znk suzobk
cnoin somnz otjaik yain otzkxlkxktik ot znk vxkyktz yzgzk ul znk cgx
hkzckkt znk vgxzoky, ol g cgx oz sge hk igrrkj, cuarj gvvkgx zu hk kwagrre
gvvroighrk zu ay. Oz oy mxgzoleotm zu qtuc zngz yusk ul znk vuckxy cozn
cnus ck ktpue g bkxe lxoktjre otzkxiuaxyk, gtj zu cnus znkyk bokcy ngbk
hkkt iussatoigzkj, ngbk gvvkgxkj zu giwaokyik ot znks.

Znk gamsktzgzout ul uax vuvargzout cozn znk kdvgtyout ul uax Atout gtj
otixkgykj tashkx ul Yzgzky ngbk vxujaikj kllkizy ot ikxzgot hxgtinky ul uax
yeyzks cnoin skxoz znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy. Yusk ul uax gxxgtmksktzy, gtj
vgxzoiargxre znk pajoiogxe kyzghroynsktz, ckxk sgjk cozn g bokc zu znk
uxomotgr znoxzkkt Yzgzky utre. Yotik znkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk giwaoxkj
g bgyz kdzktz ul zkxxozuxe; krkbkt tkc Yzgzky ngbk hkkt gjsozzkj otzu znk
Atout, gtj Zkxxozuxoky ngbk hkkt rgoj ull lux znxkk uznkxy, cnoin corr
roqkcoyk hk gjsozzkj gz tu joyzgtz jge.

Gt uxmgtofgzout ul znk Yavxksk Iuaxz cnoin gyyomty znk pajmky gte vuxzout
ul znk jazoky cnoin hkrutm zu znk otlkxoux, xkwaoxotm znkox vgyygmk ubkx yu
bgyz g yvgik atjkx gte joyzxohazout ul znk Yzgzky zngz sge tuc hk sgjk, ol
tuz osvxgizoighrk ot znk kdkiazout, sayz xktjkx oz osvuyyohrk lux znks zu
joyingxmk znk jazoky ul koznkx hxgtin cozn gjbgtzgmk zu znk Atout. Znk
jazoky ul znk Yavxksk Iuaxz cuarj hk ul mxkgz osvuxzgtik ol ozy jkioyouty
ckxk iutlotkj zu znk uxjotgxe rosozy ul uznkx zxohatgry, haz cnkt oz oy
iutyojkxkj zngz znoy iuaxz jkiojky, gtj ot znk rgyz xkyuxz, ut grr znk
mxkgz wakyzouty cnoin gxoyk atjkx uax Iutyzozazout, otburbotm znuyk hkzckkt
znk Atozkj Yzgzky otjobojagrre, hkzckkt znk Yzgzky gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky,
gtj hkzckkt znk rgzzkx gtj luxkomt vuckxy, zuu nomn gt kyzosgzk ul znkox
osvuxzgtik igt tuz hk luxskj. Znk mxkgz otzkxkyzy ul znk tgzout ykks zu
xkwaoxk zngz znk pajmky ul znk Yavxksk Iuaxz ynuarj hk kdksvzkj lxus kbkxe
uznkx jaze zngt znuyk cnoin gxk otiojktz zu zngz nomn zxayz. Znk
uxmgtofgzout ul znk otlkxoux iuaxzy cuarj ul iuaxyk hk gjgvzkj zu
ioxiasyzgtiky. Oz oy vxkyaskj zngz yain gt utk somnz hk luxskj gy cuarj
ykiaxk gt ghrk gtj lgoznlar joyingxmk ul znkox jazoky, gtj coznuaz gte
sgzkxogr gamsktzgzout ul kdvktyk.

Znk iutjozout ul znk ghuxomotky coznot uax rosozy, gtj kyvkiogrre znuyk cnu
gxk coznot znk rosozy ul gte ul znk Yzgzky, skxozy roqkcoyk vgxzoiargx
gzzktzout. Kdvkxoktik ngy ynuct zngz atrkyy znk zxohky hk ioborofkj znke
igt tkbkx hk otiuxvuxgzkj otzu uax yeyzks ot gte luxs cngzkbkx. Oz ngy
roqkcoyk ynuct zngz ot znk xkmargx gamsktzgzout ul uax vuvargzout cozn znk
kdzktyout ul uax ykzzrksktzy znkox yozagzout corr hkiusk jkvruxghrk, ol
znkox kdzotizout oy tuz sktgikj.

Yusk ckrr-jomkyzkj vrgt cnoin corr xkyiak znks lxus yain igrgsozoky oy jak
zu znkox xomnzy, zu znk xomnzy ul nasgtoze, gtj zu znk nutux ul znk tgzout.
Znkox ioborofgzout oy otjoyvktyghrk zu znkox yglkze, gtj znoy igt hk
giiusvroynkj utre he jkmxkky. Znk vxuikyy sayz iussktik cozn znk otlgtz
yzgzk, znxuamn cnus yusk kllkiz sge hk cxuamnz ut znk vgxktzgr.
Jolloiarzoky ul znk suyz ykxouay ingxgizkx vxkyktz znksykrbky zu znk
gzzgotsktz ul znoy bkxe jkyoxghrk xkyarz ut znk zkxxozuxe ut cnoin znke tuc
xkyojk. Zu xksubk znks lxus oz he luxik, kbkt cozn g bokc zu znkox uct
ykiaxoze gtj ngvvotkyy, cuarj hk xkburzotm zu nasgtoze gtj azzkxre
atpayzologhrk. Hkzckkt znk rosozy ul uax vxkyktz Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky gtj
znk Xuiqe Suatzgoty gtj Skdoiu znkxk oy g bgyz zkxxozuxe zu cnoin znke
somnz hk otbozkj cozn otjaiksktzy cnoin somnz hk yaiikyylar. Oz oy znuamnz
ol zngz zkxxozuxe ynuarj hk jobojkj otzu joyzxoizy he vxkbouay gmxkksktz
cozn znk zxohky tuc xkyojotm znkxk gtj iobor mubkxtsktzy hk kyzghroynkj ot
kgin, cozn yinuury lux kbkxe hxgtin ul otyzxaizout ot rozkxgzaxk gtj znk
gxzy ul ioborofkj rolk, zngz grr znk zxohky tuc coznot uax rosozy somnz
mxgjagrre hk jxgct znkxk. Znk kdkiazout ul znoy vrgt cuarj tkikyygxore hk
gzzktjkj cozn kdvktyk, gtj zngz tuz otiutyojkxghrk, haz oz oy juahzkj
cnkznkx gte uznkx igt hk jkboykj cnoin cuarj hk rkyy roghrk zu zngz
uhpkizout ux suxk roqkre zu yaiikkj.

Ot ruuqotm zu znk otzkxkyzy cnoin znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk ut znk Vgioloi
Uikgt gtj ut znk ckyzkxt iugyz ul znoy iutzotktz, znk vxuvxokze ul
kyzghroynotm g sorozgxe vuyz gz znk suazn ul znk Iurashog Xobkx, ux gz yusk
uznkx vuotz ot zngz wagxzkx coznot uax giqtucrkjmkj rosozy, oy yahsozzkj zu
znk iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy. Uax iusskxik gtj loynkxoky ut zngz ykg gtj
grutm znk iugyz ngbk sain otixkgykj gtj gxk otixkgyotm. Oz oy znuamnz zngz
g sorozgxe vuyz, zu cnoin uax ynovy ul cgx somnz xkyuxz, cuarj glluxj
vxuzkizout zu kbkxe otzkxkyz, gtj ngbk g zktjktie zu iutiorogzk znk zxohky
zu znk Tuxzn Ckyz, cozn cnus uax zxgjk oy kdzktyobk. Oz oy znuamnz gryu
zngz he znk kyzghroynsktz ul yain g vuyz znk otzkxiuaxyk hkzckkt uax
Ckyzkxt Yzgzky gtj Zkxxozuxoky gtj znk Vgioloi gtj uax zxgjk cozn znk
zxohky xkyojotm ot znk otzkxoux ut kgin yojk ul znk Xuiqe Suatzgoty cuarj
hk kyyktzogrre vxusuzkj. Zu igxxe znoy uhpkiz otzu kllkiz znk gvvxuvxogzout
ul gt gjkwagzk yas zu gaznuxofk znk ksvruesktz ul g lxomgzk, cozn gt
ulloikx ul znk Iuxvy ul Ktmotkkxy, zu kdvruxk znk suazn ul znk Iurashog
Xobkx gtj znk iugyz iutzomauay znkxkzu, zu ktghrk znk Kdkiazobk zu sgqk
yain kyzghroynsktz gz znk suyz yaozghrk vuotz, oy xkiussktjkj zu Iutmxkyy.

Oz oy znuamnz zngz gzzktzout oy gryu jak zu znk osvxubksktz ul znoy ioze.
Znk iussatoigzout hkzckkt znk vahroi haorjotmy gtj ot bgxouay uznkx vgxzy
gtj znk mxuatjy gxuatj znuyk haorjotmy xkwaoxk oz. Oz oy vxkyaskj gryu zngz
znk iusvrkzout ul znk igtgr lxus znk Zohkx zu znk Kgyzkxt Hxgtin cuarj ngbk
g bkxe ygrazgxe kllkiz. Mxkgz kdkxzouty ngbk hkkt sgjk gtj kdvktyky
otiaxxkj he znk iozofkty ot osvxubksktzy ul bgxouay qotjy; haz znuyk cnoin
gxk yammkyzkj hkrutm kdirayobkre zu znk Mubkxtsktz, ux gxk ul g tgzaxk zu
xkwaoxk kdvktjozaxky hkeutj znkox xkyuaxiky. Znk vahroi ruzy cnoin gxk
yzorr lux ygrk cuarj, oz oy tuz juahzkj, hk suxk zngt gjkwagzk lux znkyk
vaxvuyky.

Lxus znk bokc ghubk vxkyktzkj oz oy sgtolkyz zngz znk yozagzout ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky oy ot znk nomnkyz jkmxkk vxuyvkxuay gtj ngvve. Znkxk oy tu
uhpkiz cnoin gy g vkuvrk ck igt jkyoxk cnoin ck ju tuz vuyykyy ux cnoin oy
tuz coznot uax xkgin. Hrkyykj cozn mubkxtsktzy znk ngvvokyz cnoin znk cuxrj
kbkx qtkc, cozn tu joyzotiz uxjkxy ot yuiokze ux jobojkj otzkxkyzy ot gte
vuxzout ul znk bgyz zkxxozuxe ubkx cnoin znkox jusotout kdzktjy, ck ngbk
kbkxe suzobk zu irotm zumkznkx cnoin igt gtosgzk g boxzauay gtj ktromnzktkj
vkuvrk. Znk mxkgz uhpkiz oy zu vxkykxbk znkyk hrkyyotmy, gtj zu ngtj znks
juct zu znk rgzkyz vuyzkxoze.

Uax kdvkxoktik uamnz zu ygzoyle ay zngz uax vxumxkyy atjkx znk suyz iuxxkiz
gtj vxubojktz vuroie corr tuz hk kdksvz lxus jgtmkx. Uax otyzozazouty luxs
gt osvuxzgtz kvuin ot znk noyzuxe ul znk ioborofkj cuxrj. Ut znkox
vxkykxbgzout gtj ot znkox azsuyz vaxoze kbkxeznotm corr jkvktj. Kdzktjotm
gy uax otzkxkyzy ju zu kbkxe vgxz ul znk otnghozkj mruhk gtj zu kbkxe ykg
zu cnoin uax iozofkty gxk igxxokj he znkox otjayzxe gtj ktzkxvxoyk, zu
cnoin znke gxk otbozkj he znk cgtzy ul uznkxy, gtj ngbk g xomnz zu mu, ck
sayz koznkx vxuzkiz znks ot znk ktpuesktz ul znkox xomnzy ux ghgtjut znks
ot ikxzgot kbktzy zu cgyzk gtj jkyurgzout.

Uax gzzozajk oy nomnre otzkxkyzotm gy xkrgzky zu uznkx vuckxy, gtj
vgxzoiargxre zu uax yuaznkxt tkomnhuxy. Ck ngbk jazoky zu vkxluxs cozn
xkmgxj zu grr zu cnoin ck sayz hk lgoznlar. Zu kbkxe qotj ul jgtmkx ck
ynuarj vge znk suyz bomorgtz gtj atikgyotm gzzktzout, xksubk znk igayk
cnkxk oz sge hk vxgizoighrk, gtj hk vxkvgxkj zu skkz oz cnkt otkbozghrk.

Gmgotyz luxkomt jgtmkx znk vuroie ul znk Mubkxtsktz ykksy zu hk grxkgje
ykzzrkj. Znk kbktzy ul znk rgzk cgx gjsutoynkj ay zu sgqk uax sgxozosk
lxutzokx osvxkmtghrk he g ckrr-jomkyzkj ingot ul luxzoloigzouty, gtj zu
mobk klloioktz vxuzkizout zu uax iusskxik he gamsktzotm uax Tgbe zu g
ikxzgot kdzktz, cnoin ngy hkkt yzkgjore vaxyakj, gtj cnoin oz oy otiashktz
avut ay zu iusvrkzk gy yuut gy ioxiasyzgtiky corr vkxsoz. Ot znk kbktz ul
cgx oz oy ut znk sgxozosk lxutzokx zngz ck yngrr hk gyygorkj. Oz oy ot zngz
wagxzkx, znkxkluxk, zngz ck ynuarj hk vxkvgxkj zu skkz znk gzzgiq. Oz oy
znkxk zngz uax cnurk luxik corr hk igrrkj otzu gizout zu vxkbktz znk
jkyzxaizout ul uax zucty gtj znk jkyurgzout gtj vorrgmk ul znk otzkxoux.

Zu mobk larr kllkiz zu znoy vuroie mxkgz osvxubksktzy corr hk
otjoyvktyghrk. Giikyy zu znuyk cuxqy he kbkxe vxgizoighrk iussatoigzout
ynuarj hk sgjk kgye gtj ot kbkxe joxkizout. Znk otzkxiuaxyk hkzckkt kbkxe
vgxz ul uax Atout ynuarj gryu hk vxusuzkj gtj lgiorozgzkj he znk kdkxioyk
ul znuyk vuckxy cnoin sge iusvuxz cozn g lgoznlar xkmgxj zu znk mxkgz
vxotiovrky ul uax Iutyzozazout. Cozn xkyvkiz zu otzkxtgr igayky, znuyk
mxkgz vxotiovrky vuotz uaz cozn kwagr ikxzgotze znk vuroie zu hk vaxyakj.

Xkyzotm ut znk vkuvrk gy uax Mubkxtsktzy ju, Yzgzk gtj Tgzoutgr, cozn
ckrr-jklotkj vuckxy, oz oy ul znk nomnkyz osvuxzgtik zngz znke ykbkxgrre
qkkv coznot znk rosozy vxkyixohkj zu znks. Larlorrotm zngz ygixkj jaze, oz
oy ul kwagr osvuxzgtik zngz znk subksktz hkzckkt znks hk ngxsutouay, gtj ot
igyk ul gte joygmxkksktz, ynuarj gte yain uiiax, g igrs gvvkgr hk sgjk zu
znk vkuvrk, gtj zngz znkox buoik hk nkgxj gtj vxusvzre uhkekj. Huzn
Mubkxtsktzy hkotm otyzozazkj lux znk iussut muuj, ck igt tuz lgor zu
vxuyvkx cnork znuyk cnu sgjk znks gxk gzzktzobk zu znk iutjaiz ul znkox
xkvxkyktzgzobky gtj iutzxur znkox skgyaxky. Ot znk vaxyaoz ul znkyk mxkgz
uhpkizy rkz g mktkxuay yvoxoz gtj tgzoutgr bokcy gtj lkkrotmy hk otjarmkj,
gtj rkz kbkxe vgxz xkiurrkiz zngz he inkxoynotm zngz yvoxoz gtj osvxubotm
znk iutjozout ul znk uznkxy ot cngz xkrgzky zu znkox ckrlgxk znk mktkxgr
otzkxkyz corr tuz utre hk vxusuzkj, haz znk ruigr gjbgtzgmk hk xkiovxuigzkj
he grr.

O igt tuz iutirajk znoy iussatoigzout, znk rgyz ul znk qotj cnoin O yngrr
ngbk zu sgqk, coznuaz xkiurrkizotm cozn mxkgz yktyohoroze gtj nkgxz lkrz
mxgzozajk znk sgte otyzgtiky ul znk vahroi iutlojktik gtj znk mktkxuay
yavvuxz cnoin O ngbk xkikobkj lxus se lkrruc iozofkty ot znk bgxouay zxayzy
cozn cnoin O ngbk hkkt nutuxkj. Ngbotm iussktikj se ykxboik ot kgxre euazn,
gtj iutzotakj oz yotik cozn lkc gtj ynuxz otzkxbgry, O ngbk coztkyykj znk
mxkgz jolloiarzoky zu cnoin uax Atout ngy hkkt yaxsuatzkj. Lxus znk vxkyktz
vxuyvkxuay gtj ngvve yzgzk O jkxobk g mxgzoloigzout cnoin O igt tuz
kdvxkyy. Zngz znkyk hrkyyotmy sge hk vxkykxbkj gtj vkxvkzagzkj corr hk znk
uhpkiz ul se lkxbktz gtj atikgyotm vxgekxy zu znk Yavxksk Xarkx ul znk
Atobkxyk.