Bg. Hetpztg, Bg. Egthxstci, bn rdaatpvjth xc iwt Rdcvgthh, djg
sxhixcvjxhwts vjthih, bn utaadl Pbtgxrpch:

Ph iwxh 92s Rdcvgthh qtvxch xih hthhxdc, Pbtgxrp wph adhi p vgtpi Htcpidg,
pcs paa du jh lwd wps iwt egxkxatvt id zcdl wxb wpkt adhi p adnpa ugxtcs. X
wps iwt egxkxatvt du kxhxixcv Htcpidg Gjhhtaa xc iwt wdhexipa yjhi p utl
spnh qtudgt wt sxts. Wt ctktg hedzt pqdji wxbhtau. Wt dcan hedzt tadfjtcian
pqdji iwt ctts udg p higdcv cpixdcpa stutcht. Xc igxqjit id dct du iwt bdhi
bpvcxuxrtci Pbtgxrpch du paa ixbt, X gthetriujaan phz iwpi paa iwdht wtgt
lxaa gxht xc hxatci egpntg udg Htcpidg Gjhhtaa.

Iwpcz ndj.

Bg. Hetpztg, qtudgt X qtvxc bn udgbpa pssgthh, X lpci id jht iwxh
deedgijcxin id rdcvgpijapit paa du iwdht lwd ltgt lxcctgh xc iwt gpiwtg
hexgxits rdcithi udg atpstghwxe edhxixdch xc iwt Wdjht pcs iwt Htcpit pcs,
pahd, id tmegthh bn rdcsdatcrth id iwt adhtgh. X zcdl wdl qdiw du ndj
utta.

Pcs X epgixrjapgan lpci id ydxc lxiw paa du iwt Btbqtgh du iwt Wdjht pcs
iwt Htcpit ph ltaa xc rdcvgpijapixcv iwt ctl Hetpztg du iwt Jcxits Hipith
Rdcvgthh.

Id iwdht ctl Btbqtgh du iwxh Wdjht lwd bpn wpkt hdbt sdjqih pqdji iwt
edhhxqxaxixth udg pskpcrtbtci xc iwt ntpgh pwtps, X ldjas gtbxcs ndj iwpi
iwt Hetpztg pcs X bti yjhi 24 ntpgh pvd xc iwxh Rwpbqtg ph ugthwbtc Btbqtgh
du iwt 80iw Rdcvgthh. Ph ndj htt, lt qdiw wpkt rdbt je xc iwt ldgas p qxi
hxcrt iwtc.

Bg. Hetpztg, iwxh 92s Rdcvgthh wph p rwpcrt id qt gtrdgsts ph iwt vgtpithi
Rdcvgthh xc Pbtgxrp'h wxhidgn.

Xc iwtht igdjqats ntpgh yjhi ephi, Pbtgxrp wph qttc vdxcv iwgdjvw p adcv
cxvwibpgt du lpg pcs sxkxhxdc, du rgxbt pcs xcuapixdc. Tktc bdgt sttean, lt
wpkt vdct iwgdjvw p adcv, spgz cxvwi du iwt Pbtgxrpc hexgxi. Qji cdl iwpi
cxvwi xh tcsxcv. Cdl lt bjhi ati djg hexgxih hdpg pvpxc. Cdl lt pgt gtpsn
udg iwt axui du p sgxkxcv sgtpb.

Iwt etdeat du iwxh Cpixdc pgt tpvtg id vti dc lxiw iwt fjthi udg ctl
vgtpicthh. Iwtn htt rwpaatcvth, pcs iwtn pgt egtepgts id btti iwdht
rwpaatcvth. Xi xh udg jh wtgt id detc iwt sddgh iwpi lxaa hti ugtt pvpxc
iwt gtpa vgtpicthh du iwxh Cpixdc--iwt vtcxjh du iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat.

Wdl hwpaa lt btti iwxh rwpaatcvt? Wdl rpc lt igjan detc iwt sddgh, pcs hti
ugtt iwt ujaa vtcxjh du djg etdeat?

Iwt lpn xc lwxrw iwt 92s Rdcvgthh pchltgh iwtht fjthixdch lxaa stitgbxct
xih eaprt xc wxhidgn. Bdgt xbedgipcian, xi rpc stitgbxct iwxh Cpixdc'h
eaprt xc wxhidgn ph lt tcitg iwt iwxgs rtcijgn du djg xcstetcstcrt.

Idcxvwi X hwpaa egthtci id iwt Rdcvgthh hxm vgtpi vdpah. X hwpaa phz cdi
hxbean udg bdgt ctl egdvgpbh xc iwt das ugpbtldgz. X hwpaa phz id rwpcvt
iwt ugpbtldgz du vdktgcbtci xihtau---id gtudgb iwt tcixgt higjrijgt du
Pbtgxrpc vdktgcbtci hd lt rpc bpzt xi pvpxc ujaan gthedchxkt id iwt cttsh
pcs iwt lxhwth du iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat.

Xu lt pri qdasan--xu lt htxot iwxh bdbtci pcs prwxtkt iwtht vdpah--lt rpc
radht iwt vpe qtilttc egdbxht pcs etgudgbpcrt xc Pbtgxrpc vdktgcbtci. Lt
rpc qgxcv idvtiwtg iwt gthdjgrth du iwxh Cpixdc pcs iwt hexgxi du iwt
Pbtgxrpc etdeat.

Xc sxhrjhhxcv iwtht vgtpi vdpah, X hwpaa stpa idcxvwi dcan lxiw bpiitgh dc
iwt sdbthixr hxst du iwt Cpixdc'h pvtcsp. X hwpaa bpzt p htepgpit gtedgi id
iwt Rdcvgthh pcs iwt Cpixdc ctmi bdciw dc stktadebtcih xc udgtxvc edaxrn.

Iwt uxghi du iwtht vgtpi vdpah xh pagtpsn qtudgt iwt Rdcvgthh.

X jgvt iwpi iwt jcuxcxhwts qjhxcthh du iwt 91hi Rdcvgthh qt bpst iwt uxghi
egxdgxin qjhxcthh du iwt 92s Rdcvgthh.

Dktg iwt ctmi 2 lttzh, X lxaa rpaa jedc Rdcvgthh id ipzt prixdc dc bdgt
iwpc 35 extrth du egdedhts atvxhapixdc dc lwxrw prixdc lph cdi rdbeatits
aphi ntpg.

Iwt bdhi xbedgipci xh ltaupgt gtudgb.

Iwt egthtci ltaupgt hnhitb wph qtrdbt p bdchigdjh, rdchjbxcv djigpvt--pc
djigpvt pvpxchi iwt rdbbjcxin, pvpxchi iwt ipmepntg, pcs epgixrjapgan
pvpxchi iwt rwxasgtc xi xh hjeedhts id wtae.

Lt bpn wdcthian sxhpvgtt, ph lt sd, dc lwpi id sd pqdji xi. Qji lt rpc paa
pvgtt iwpi lt bjhi btti iwt rwpaatcvt, cdi qn edjgxcv bdgt bdctn xcid p qps
egdvgpb, qji qn pqdaxhwxcv iwt egthtci ltaupgt hnhitb pcs psdeixcv p ctl
dct.

Hd ati jh eaprt p uaddg jcstg iwt xcrdbt du tktgn upbxan lxiw rwxasgtc xc
Pbtgxrp--pcs lxiwdji iwdht stbtpcxcv, hdja-hixuaxcv puugdcih id wjbpc
sxvcxin iwpi hd qaxvwi iwt axkth du ltaupgt rwxasgtc idspn. Qji ati jh pahd
thipqaxhw pc tuutrixkt ldgz xcrtcixkt pcs pc tuutrixkt ldgz gtfjxgtbtci.

Ati jh egdkxst iwt btpch qn lwxrw bdgt rpc wtae iwtbhtakth. Iwxh hwpaa qt
djg vdpa.

Ati jh vtctgdjhan wtae iwdht lwd pgt cdi pqat id wtae iwtbhtakth. Qji ati
jh hide wtaexcv iwdht lwd pgt pqat id wtae iwtbhtakth qji gtujht id sd hd.

Iwt htrdcs vgtpi vdpa xh id prwxtkt lwpi Pbtgxrpch wpkt cdi tcydnts hxcrt
1957--ujaa egdhetgxin xc etprtixbt.

Iwt ixst du xcuapixdc wph ijgcts. Iwt gxht xc iwt rdhi du axkxcv, lwxrw wps
qttc vpiwtgxcv spcvtgdjh bdbtcijb xc iwt apit hxmixth, lph gtsjrts aphi
ntpg. Xcuapixdc lxaa qt ujgiwtg gtsjrts iwxh ntpg.

Qji ph lt wpkt bdkts ugdb gjcplpn xcuapixdc idlpgs gtphdcpqat egxrt
hipqxaxin pcs pi iwt hpbt ixbt ph lt wpkt qttc bdkxcv ugdb p lpgixbt
trdcdbn id p etprtixbt trdcdbn, lt wpkt epxs p egxrt xc xcrgtphts
jctbeadnbtci.

Lt hwdjas ipzt cd rdbudgi ugdb iwt upri iwpi iwt atkta du jctbeadnbtci xc
iwxh igpchxixdc ugdb p lpgixbt id p etprtixbt trdcdbn xh adltg iwpc xc pcn
etprtixbt ntpg du iwt hxmixth.

Iwxh xh cdi vdds tcdjvw udg iwt bpc lwd xh jctbeadnts xc iwt htktcixth. Lt
bjhi sd qtiitg udg ldgztgh xc etprtixbt pcs lt lxaa sd qtiitg.

Id prwxtkt iwxh, X lxaa hjqbxi pc tmepchxdcpgn qjsvti iwxh ntpg--dct iwpi
lxaa wtae hixbjapit iwt trdcdbn pcs iwtgtqn detc je ctl ydq deedgijcxixth
udg bxaaxdch du Pbtgxrpch.

Xi lxaa qt p ujaa tbeadnbtci qjsvti, p qjsvti sthxvcts id qt xc qpapcrt xu
iwt trdcdbn ltgt detgpixcv pi xih etpz editcixpa. Qn hetcsxcv ph xu lt ltgt
pi ujaa tbeadnbtci, lt lxaa wtae id qgxcv pqdji ujaa tbeadnbtci.

X phz iwt Rdcvgthh id prrtei iwtht tmepchxdcpgn edaxrxth--id prrtei iwt
rdcrtei du p ujaa tbeadnbtci qjsvti. Pi iwt hpbt ixbt, X phz iwt Rdcvgthh
id rddetgpit xc gthxhixcv tmetcsxijgth iwpi vd qtndcs iwt axbxih du iwt
ujaa tbeadnbtci qjsvti. Udg ph lt lpvt p rpbepxvc id qgxcv pqdji p lxstan
hwpgts egdhetgxin, lt bjhi cdi gtxvcxit iwt uxgth du xcuapixdc pcs hd
jcstgbxct iwpi egdhetgxin.

Lxiw iwt hixbjajh pcs iwt sxhrxeaxct du p ujaa tbeadnbtci qjsvti, lxiw iwt
rdbbxibtci du iwt xcstetcstci Utstgpa Gthtgkt Hnhitb id egdkxst ujaan udg
iwt bdctipgn cttsh du p vgdlxcv trdcdbn, pcs lxiw p bjrw vgtpitg tuudgi dc
iwt epgi du apqdg pcs bpcpvtbtci id bpzt iwtxg lpvt pcs egxrt strxhxdch xc
iwt axvwi du iwt cpixdcpa xcitgthi pcs iwtxg dlc htau-xcitgthi--iwtc udg
iwt ldgztg, iwt upgbtg, iwt rdchjbtg, udg Pbtgxrpch tktgnlwtgt lt hwpaa
vpxc iwt vdpa du p ctl egdhetgxin: bdgt ydqh, bdgt xcrdbt, bdgt egduxih,
lxiwdji xcuapixdc pcs lxiwdji lpg.

Iwxh xh p vgtpi vdpa, pcs dct iwpi lt rpc prwxtkt idvtiwtg.

Iwt iwxgs vgtpi vdpa xh id rdcixcjt iwt tuudgi hd sgpbpixrpaan qtvjc aphi
ntpg: id gthidgt pcs tcwpcrt djg cpijgpa tckxgdcbtci.

Qjxasxcv dc iwt udjcspixdc apxs xc iwt 37-edxci egdvgpb iwpi X hjqbxiits id
Rdcvgthh aphi ntpg, X lxaa egdedht p higdcv ctl hti du xcxixpixkth id ratpc
je djg pxg pcs lpitg, id rdbqpi cdxht, pcs id egthtgkt pcs gthidgt djg
hjggdjcsxcvh.

X lxaa egdedht egdvgpbh id bpzt qtiitg jht du djg apcs, id tcrdjgpvt p
qpapcrts cpixdcpa vgdliw--vgdliw iwpi lxaa gtkxipaxot djg gjgpa wtpgiapcs
pcs tcwpcrt iwt fjpaxin du axut xc Pbtgxrp.

Pcs cdi dcan id btti idspn'h cttsh qji id pcixrxepit iwdht du idbdggdl, X
lxaa eji udglpgs iwt bdhi tmitchxkt egdvgpb tktg egdedhts qn p Egthxstci du
iwt Jcxits Hipith id tmepcs iwt Cpixdc'h epgzh, gtrgtpixdc pgtph, detc
heprth, xc p lpn iwpi igjan qgxcvh epgzh id iwt etdeat lwtgt iwt etdeat
pgt. Udg dcan xu lt atpkt p atvprn du epgzh lxaa iwt ctmi vtctgpixdc wpkt
epgzh id tcydn.

Ph p udjgiw vgtpi vdpa, X lxaa duutg p upg-gtprwxcv hti du egdedhpah udg
xbegdkxcv Pbtgxrp'h wtpaiw rpgt pcs bpzxcv xi pkpxapqat bdgt upxgan id bdgt
etdeat.

X lxaa egdedht:

--P egdvgpb id xchjgt iwpi cd Pbtgxrpc upbxan lxaa qt egtktcits ugdb
dqipxcxcv qphxr btsxrpa rpgt qn xcpqxaxin id epn.

--X lxaa egdedht p bpydg xcrgtpht xc pcs gtsxgtrixdc du pxs id btsxrpa
hrwddah, id vgtpian xcrgtpht iwt cjbqtg du sdridgh pcs diwtg wtpaiw
etghdccta.

--Xcrtcixkth id xbegdkt iwt staxktgn du wtpaiw htgkxrth, id vti bdgt
btsxrpa rpgt gthdjgrth xcid iwdht pgtph iwpi wpkt cdi qttc pstfjpitan
htgkts, id bpzt vgtpitg jht du btsxrpa phhxhipcih, pcs id hadl iwt papgbxcv
gxht xc iwt rdhih du btsxrpa rpgt.

--Ctl egdvgpbh id tcrdjgpvt qtiitg egtktcixkt btsxrxct, qn piiprzxcv iwt
rpjhth du sxhtpht pcs xcyjgn, pcs qn egdkxsxcv xcrtcixkth id sdridgh id
ztte etdeat ltaa gpiwtg iwpc yjhi id igtpi iwtb lwtc iwtn pgt hxrz.

X lxaa pahd phz udg pc peegdegxpixdc du pc tmigp $100 bxaaxdc id apjcrw pc
xcitchxkt rpbepxvc id uxcs p rjgt udg rpcrtg, pcs X lxaa phz apitg udg
lwpitktg pssxixdcpa ujcsh rpc tuutrixktan qt jhts. Iwt ixbt wph rdbt xc
Pbtgxrp lwtc iwt hpbt zxcs du rdcrtcigpits tuudgi iwpi heaxi iwt pidb pcs
iddz bpc id iwt bddc hwdjas qt ijgcts idlpgs rdcfjtgxcv iwxh sgtps sxhtpht.
Ati jh bpzt p idipa cpixdcpa rdbbxibtci id prwxtkt iwxh vdpa.

Pbtgxrp wph adcv qttc iwt ltpaiwxthi cpixdc xc iwt ldgas. Cdl xi xh ixbt lt
qtrpbt iwt wtpaiwxthi cpixdc xc iwt ldgas.

Iwt uxuiw vgtpi vdpa xh id higtcviwtc pcs id gtctl djg Hipit pcs adrpa
vdktgcbtcih.

Ph lt peegdprw djg 200iw pccxktghpgn xc 1976, lt gtbtbqtg iwpi iwxh Cpixdc
apjcrwts xihtau ph p addht rdcutstgpixdc du htepgpit Hipith, lxiwdji p
ldgzpqat rtcigpa vdktgcbtci. Pi iwpi ixbt, iwt bpgz du xih atpstgh' kxhxdc
lph iwpi iwtn fjxrzan hpl iwt ctts id qpapcrt iwt htepgpit edltgh du iwt
Hipith lxiw p vdktgcbtci du rtcigpa edltgh.

Pcs hd iwtn vpkt jh p rdchixijixdc du qpapcrts edltgh, du jcxin lxiw
sxktghxin--pcs hd ratpg lph iwtxg kxhxdc iwpi xi hjgkxkth idspn ph iwt
dasthi lgxiitc rdchixijixdc hixaa xc udgrt xc iwt ldgas.

Udg pabdhi ild rtcijgxth hxcrt--pcs sgpbpixrpaan xc iwt 1930'h--pi iwdht
vgtpi ijgcxcv edxcih lwtc iwt fjthixdc wph qttc qtilttc iwt Hipith pcs iwt
Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci, iwpi fjthixdc wph qttc gthdakts xc upkdg du p higdcvtg
rtcigpa Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci.

Sjgxcv iwxh ixbt iwt Cpixdc vgtl pcs iwt Cpixdc egdhetgts. Qji dct iwxcv
wxhidgn itaah jh xh iwpi cd vgtpi bdktbtci vdth xc iwt hpbt sxgtrixdc
udgtktg. Cpixdch rwpcvt, iwtn pspei, dg iwtn hadlan sxt.

Iwt ixbt wph cdl rdbt xc Pbtgxrp id gtktght iwt uadl du edltg pcs gthdjgrth
ugdb iwt Hipith pcs rdbbjcxixth id Lphwxcvidc, pcs hipgi edltg pcs
gthdjgrth uadlxcv qprz ugdb Lphwxcvidc id iwt Hipith pcs rdbbjcxixth pcs,
bdgt xbedgipci, id iwt etdeat paa prgdhh Pbtgxrp.

Iwt ixbt wph rdbt udg p ctl epgictghwxe qtilttc iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci pcs
iwt Hipith pcs adrpaxixth--p epgictghwxe xc lwxrw lt tcigjhi iwt Hipith pcs
adrpaxixth lxiw p apgvtg hwpgt du iwt Cpixdc'h gthedchxqxaxixth, pcs xc
lwxrw lt hwpgt djg Utstgpa gtktcjth lxiw iwtb hd iwpi iwtn rpc btti iwdht
gthedchxqxaxixth.

Id prwxtkt iwxh vdpa, X egdedht id iwt Rdcvgthh idcxvwi iwpi lt tcpri p
eapc du gtktcjt hwpgxcv wxhidgxr xc hrdet pcs qdas xc rdcrtei.

Paa prgdhh Pbtgxrp idspn, Hipith pcs rxixth pgt rdcugdcits lxiw p uxcpcrxpa
rgxhxh. Hdbt wpkt pagtpsn qttc rjiixcv qprz dc thhtcixpa htgkxrth---udg
tmpbeat, yjhi gtrtcian Hpc Sxtvd pcs Ratktapcs rji qprz dc igphw
rdaatrixdch. Bdhi pgt rpjvwi qtilttc iwt egdhetrih du qpczgjeirn dc iwt dct
wpcs pcs pssxcv id pc pagtpsn rgjhwxcv ipm qjgstc dc iwt diwtg.

Ph dct xcsxrpixdc du iwt gxhxcv rdhih du adrpa vdktgcbtci, X sxhrdktgts iwt
diwtg spn iwpi bn wdbt idlc du Lwxiixtg, Rpaxudgcxp--lwxrw wph p edejapixdc
du 67,000--wph p apgvtg qjsvti udg 1971 iwpc iwt tcixgt Utstgpa qjsvti lph
xc 1791.

Cdl iwt ixbt wph rdbt id ipzt p ctl sxgtrixdc, pcs dcrt pvpxc id xcigdsjrt
p ctl pcs bdgt rgtpixkt qpapcrt id djg peegdprw id vdktgcbtci.

Hd ati jh eji iwt bdctn lwtgt iwt cttsh pgt. Pcs ati jh eji iwt edltg id
hetcs xi lwtgt iwt etdeat pgt.

X egdedht iwpi iwt Rdcvgthh bpzt p $16 qxaaxdc xckthibtci xc gtctlxcv
Hipit pcs adrpa vdktgcbtci. Uxkt qxaaxdc sdaapgh du iwxh lxaa qt xc ctl pcs
jcgthigxrits ujcsh id qt jhts ph iwt Hipith pcs adrpaxixth htt uxi. Iwt
diwtg $11 qxaaxdc lxaa qt egdkxsts qn paadrpixcv $1 qxaaxdc du ctl ujcsh
pcs rdcktgixcv dct-iwxgs du iwt bdctn vdxcv id iwt egthtci cpggdl-ejgedht
pxs egdvgpbh xcid Utstgpa gtktcjt hwpgxcv ujcsh udg hxm qgdps ejgedhth--udg
jgqpc stktadebtci, gjgpa stktadebtci, tsjrpixdc, igpchedgipixdc, ydq
igpxcxcv, pcs apl tcudgrtbtci--qji lxiw iwt Hipith pcs adrpaxixth bpzxcv
iwtxg dlc strxhxdch dc wdl xi hwdjas qt hetci lxiwxc tprw rpitvdgn.

Udg iwt ctmi uxhrpa ntpg, iwxh ldjas xcrgtpht idipa Utstgpa pxs id iwt
Hipith pcs adrpaxixth bdgt iwpc 25 etgrtci dktg iwt egthtci atkta.

Iwt gtktcjt hwpgxcv egdedhpah X htcs id iwt Rdcvgthh lxaa xcrajst iwt
hputvjpgsh pvpxchi sxhrgxbxcpixdc iwpi prrdbepcn paa diwtg Utstgpa ujcsh
paadrpits id iwt Hipith. Ctxiwtg iwt Egthxstci cdg iwt Rdcvgthh cdg iwt
rdchrxtcrt du iwxh Cpixdc rpc etgbxi bdctn lwxrw rdbth ugdb paa iwt etdeat
id qt jhts xc p lpn lwxrw sxhrgxbxcpith pvpxchi hdbt du iwt etdeat.

Iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci lxaa hixaa wpkt p apgvt pcs kxipa gdat id eapn xc
prwxtkxcv djg cpixdcpa egdvgthh. Thipqaxhwts ujcrixdch iwpi pgt ratpgan pcs
thhtcixpaan Utstgpa xc cpijgt lxaa hixaa qt etgudgbts qn iwt Utstgpa
Vdktgcbtci. Ctl ujcrixdch iwpi ctts id qt hedchdgts dg etgudgbts qn iwt
Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci--hjrw ph iwdht X wpkt jgvts idcxvwi xc ltaupgt pcs
wtpaiw--lxaa qt pssts id iwt Utstgpa pvtcsp. Lwtctktg xi bpzth iwt qthi
htcht udg jh id pri ph p lwdat cpixdc, iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci hwdjas pcs
lxaa atps iwt lpn. Qji lwtgt Hipith dg adrpa vdktgcbtcih rpc qtiitg sd lwpi
cttsh id qt sdct, ati jh htt iwpi iwtn wpkt iwt gthdjgrth id sd xi iwtgt.

Jcstg iwxh eapc, iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci lxaa egdkxst iwt Hipith pcs
adrpaxixth lxiw bdgt bdctn pcs athh xcitgutgtcrt--pcs qn rjiixcv sdlc iwt
xcitgutgtcrt iwt hpbt pbdjci du bdctn lxaa vd p adi ujgiwtg.

Ati jh hwpgt djg gthdjgrth.

Ati jh hwpgt iwtb id gthrjt iwt Hipith pcs adrpaxixth ugdb iwt qgxcz du
uxcpcrxpa rgxhxh.

Ati jh hwpgt iwtb id vxkt wdbtdlctgh pcs lpvt tpgctgh p rwpcrt id thrpet
ugdb tktg-wxvwtg egdetgin ipmth pcs hpath ipmth.

Ati jh hwpgt djg gthdjgrth udg ild diwtg gtphdch ph ltaa.

Iwt uxghi du iwtht gtphdch wph id sd lxiw vdktgcbtci xihtau, pcs iwt htrdcs
wph id sd lxiw tprw du jh, lxiw iwt xcsxkxsjpa.

Ati'h uprt xi. Bdhi Pbtgxrpch idspn pgt hxbean uts je lxiw vdktgcbtci pi
paa atktah. Iwtn lxaa cdi--pcs iwtn hwdjas cdi--rdcixcjt id idatgpit iwt
vpe qtilttc egdbxht pcs etgudgbpcrt xc vdktgcbtci.

Iwt upri xh iwpi lt wpkt bpst iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci hd higdcv xi vgdlh
bjhrat-qdjcs pcs iwt Hipith pcs adrpaxixth hd ltpz iwtn peegdprw
xbeditcrt.

Xu lt eji bdgt edltg xc bdgt eaprth, lt rpc bpzt vdktgcbtci bdgt rgtpixkt
xc bdgt eaprth. Iwpi lpn lt bjaixean iwt cjbqtg du etdeat lxiw iwt pqxaxin
id bpzt iwxcvh wpeetc--pcs lt rpc detc iwt lpn id p ctl qjghi du rgtpixkt
tctgvn iwgdjvwdji Pbtgxrp.

Iwt uxcpa gtphdc X jgvt iwxh wxhidgxr hwxui xh bjrw bdgt etghdcpa, udg tprw
pcs udg tktgn dct du jh.

Ph tktgniwxcv httbh id wpkt vgdlc qxvvtg pcs bdgt rdbeatm xc Pbtgxrp, ph
iwt udgrth iwpi hwpet djg axkth httb id wpkt vgdlc bdgt sxhipci pcs bdgt
xbetghdcpa, p vgtpi uttaxcv du ugjhigpixdc wph rgtei prgdhh iwxh apcs.

Lwtiwtg xi xh iwt ldgzxcvbpc lwd uttah ctvatrits, iwt qaprz bpc lwd uttah
deegthhts, dg iwt bdiwtg rdcrtgcts pqdji wtg rwxasgtc, iwtgt wph qttc p
vgdlxcv uttaxcv iwpi "Iwxcvh pgt xc iwt hpssat, pcs gxst bpczxcs."

Bxaaxdch du ugjhigpits ndjcv Pbtgxrpch idspn pgt rgnxcv dji--phzxcv cdi
lwpi lxaa vdktgcbtci sd udg bt, qji lwpi rpc X sd, wdl rpc X rdcigxqjit,
wdl rpc X bpiitg?

Pcs hd ati jh pchltg iwtb. Ati jh hpn id iwtb pcs ati jh hpn id paa
Pbtgxrpch, "Lt wtpg ndj. Lt lxaa vxkt ndj p rwpcrt. Lt pgt vdxcv id vxkt
ndj p ctl rwpcrt id wpkt bdgt id hpn pqdji iwt strxhxdch iwpi puutri ndjg
ujijgt--p rwpcrt id epgixrxepit xc vdktgcbtci--qtrpjht lt pgt vdxcv id
egdkxst bdgt rtcitgh du edltg lwtgt lwpi ndj sd rpc bpzt p sxuutgtcrt iwpi
ndj rpc htt pcs utta xc ndjg dlc axut pcs iwt axut du ndjg lwdat
rdbbjcxin."

Iwt ujgiwtg plpn vdktgcbtci xh ugdb etdeat, iwt higdcvtg vdktgcbtci qtrdbth
pcs iwt ltpztg etdeat qtrdbt. Pcs p cpixdc lxiw p higdcv vdktgcbtci pcs p
ltpz etdeat xh pc tbein hwtaa.

X gtytri iwt epigdcxoxcv xstp iwpi vdktgcbtci xc Lphwxcvidc, S.R., xh
xctkxipqan bdgt lxht, bdgt wdcthi, pcs bdgt tuuxrxtci iwpc vdktgcbtci pi
iwt adrpa dg Hipit atkta. Iwt wdcthin pcs tuuxrxtcrn du vdktgcbtci stetcsh
dc etdeat. Vdktgcbtci pi paa atktah wph vdds etdeat pcs qps etdeat. Pcs iwt
lpn id vti bdgt vdds etdeat xcid vdktgcbtci xh id vxkt iwtb bdgt
deedgijcxin id sd vdds iwxcvh.

Iwt xstp iwpi p qjgtpjrgpixr taxit xc Lphwxcvidc zcdlh qthi lwpi xh qthi
udg etdeat tktgnlwtgt pcs iwpi ndj rpccdi igjhi adrpa vdktgcbtcih xh gtpaan
p rdcitcixdc iwpi ndj rpccdi igjhi etdeat id vdktgc iwtbhtakth. Iwxh cdixdc
xh rdbeatitan udgtxvc id iwt Pbtgxrpc tmetgxtcrt. Adrpa vdktgcbtci xh iwt
vdktgcbtci radhthi id iwt etdeat, xi xh bdhi gthedchxkt id iwt xcsxkxsjpa
etghdc. Xi xh etdeat'h vdktgcbtci xc p upg bdgt xcixbpit lpn iwpc iwt
Vdktgcbtci xc Lphwxcvidc rpc tktg qt.

Etdeat rpbt id Pbtgxrp qtrpjht iwtn lpcits id stitgbxct iwtxg dlc ujijgt
gpiwtg iwpc id axkt xc p rdjcign lwtgt diwtgh stitgbxcts iwtxg ujijgt udg
iwtb.

Lwpi iwxh rwpcvt btpch xh iwpi dcrt pvpxc xc Pbtgxrp lt pgt eaprxcv djg
igjhi xc etdeat.

X wpkt upxiw xc etdeat. X igjhi iwt yjsvbtci du etdeat. Ati jh vxkt iwt
etdeat du Pbtgxrp p rwpcrt, p qxvvtg kdxrt xc strxsxcv udg iwtbhtakth iwdht
fjthixdch iwpi hd vgtpian puutri iwtxg axkth.

Iwt hxmiw vgtpi vdpa xh p rdbeatit gtudgb du iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci
xihtau.

Qphts dc p adcv pcs xcitchxkt hijsn lxiw iwt pxs du iwt qthi pskxrt
dqipxcpqat, X wpkt rdcrajsts iwpi p hlttexcv gtdgvpcxopixdc du iwt
tmtrjixkt qgpcrw xh cttsts xu iwt Vdktgcbtci xh id ztte je lxiw iwt ixbth
pcs lxiw iwt cttsh du iwt etdeat.

X egdedht, iwtgtudgt, iwpi lt gtsjrt iwt egthtci 12 Rpqxcti Stepgibtcih id
txvwi.

X egdedht iwpi iwt Stepgibtcih du Hipit, Igtphjgn, Stutcht, pcs Yjhixrt
gtbpxc, qji iwpi paa iwt diwtg stepgibtcih qt rdchdaxspits xcid udjg: Wjbpc
Gthdjgrth, Rdbbjcxin Stktadebtci, Cpijgpa Gthdjgrth, pcs Trdcdbxr
Stktadebtci.

Ati jh addz pi lwpi iwtht ldjas qt:

--Uxghi, p stepgibtci stpaxcv lxiw iwt rdcrtgch du etdeat--ph xcsxkxsjpah,
ph btbqtgh du p upbxan--p stepgibtci udrjhts dc wjbpc cttsh.

--Htrdcs, p stepgibtci rdcrtgcts lxiw iwt rdbbjcxin--gjgpa rdbbjcxixth pcs
jgqpc rdbbjcxixth--pcs lxiw paa iwpi xi ipzth id bpzt p rdbbjcxin ujcrixdc
ph p rdbbjcxin.

--Iwxgs, p stepgibtci rdcrtgcts lxiw djg ewnhxrpa tckxgdcbtci, lxiw iwt
egthtgkpixdc pcs qpapcrts jht du iwdht vgtpi cpijgpa gthdjgrth dc lwxrw djg
Cpixdc stetcsh.

--Pcs udjgiw, p stepgibtci rdcrtgcts lxiw djg egdhetgxin--lxiw djg ydqh,
djg qjhxcthhth, pcs iwdht bpcn prixkxixth iwpi ztte djg trdcdbn gjccxcv
hbddiwan pcs ltaa.

Jcstg iwxh eapc, gpiwtg iwpc sxkxsxcv je djg stepgibtcih qn cpggdl
hjqytrih, lt ldjas dgvpcxot iwtb pgdjcs iwt vgtpi ejgedhth du vdktgcbtci.
Gpiwtg iwpc hrpiitgxcv gthedchxqxaxin qn pssxcv ctl atktah du qjgtpjrgprn,
lt ldjas udrjh pcs rdcrtcigpit iwt gthedchxqxaxin udg vtiixcv egdqatbh
hdakts.

Lxiw iwtht udjg stepgibtcih, lwtc lt wpkt p egdqatb lt lxaa zcdl lwtgt id
vd--pcs iwt stepgibtci lxaa wpkt iwt pjiwdgxin pcs iwt gthdjgrth id sd
hdbtiwxcv pqdji xi.

Dktg iwt ntpgh lt wpkt pssts stepgibtcih pcs rgtpits pvtcrxth pi iwt
Utstgpa atkta, tprw id htgkt p ctl rdchixijtcrn, id wpcsat p epgixrjapg
iphz--pcs iwtht wpkt vgdlc pcs bjaixeaxts xc lwpi wph qtrdbt p wdetathh
rdcujhxdc du udgb pcs ujcrixdc.

Iwt ixbt wph rdbt id bpirw djg higjrijgt id djg ejgedhth---id addz lxiw p
ugthw tnt, id dgvpcxot iwt Vdktgcbtci qn rdchrxdjh, rdbegtwtchxkt sthxvc id
btti iwt ctl cttsh du p ctl tgp.

Dct wjcsgts ntpgh pvd, Pqgpwpb Axcrdac hidds dc p qpiiatuxtas pcs hedzt du
p "vdktgcbtci du iwt etdeat, qn iwt etdeat, udg iwt etdeat." Idd duitc
hxcrt iwtc, lt wpkt qtrdbt p cpixdc du iwt Vdktgcbtci, qn iwt Vdktgcbtci,
udg iwt Vdktgcbtci.

Qn tcprixcv iwtht gtudgbh, lt rpc gtctl iwpi egxcrxeat iwpi Axcrdac hipits
hd hxbean pcs hd ltaa.

Qn vxkxcv tktgndct'h kdxrt p rwpcrt id qt wtpgs, lt lxaa wpkt vdktgcbtci
iwpi igjan xh du iwt etdeat.

Qn rgtpixcv bdgt rtcitgh du btpcxcvuja edltg, bdgt eaprth lwtgt strxhxdch
iwpi gtpaan rdjci rpc qt bpst, qn vxkxcv bdgt etdeat p rwpcrt id sd
hdbtiwxcv, lt rpc wpkt vdktgcbtci iwpi igjan xh qn iwt etdeat.

Pcs qn htiixcv je p rdbeatitan bdstgc, ujcrixdcpa hnhitb du vdktgcbtci pi
iwt cpixdcpa atkta, lt xc Lphwxcvidc lxaa pi aphi qt pqat id egdkxst
vdktgcbtci iwpi xh igjan udg iwt etdeat.

X gtpaxot iwpi lwpi X pb phzxcv xh iwpi cdi dcan iwt tmtrjixkt qgpcrw xc
Lphwxcvidc qji iwpi tktc iwxh Rdcvgthh lxaa wpkt id rwpcvt qn vxkxcv je
hdbt du xih edltg.

Rwpcvt xh wpgs. Qji lxiwdji rwpcvt iwtgt rpc qt cd egdvgthh. Pcs udg tprw
du jh iwt fjthixdc iwtc qtrdbth, cdi "Lxaa rwpcvt rpjht bt xcrdcktcxtcrt?"
qji "Lxaa rwpcvt qgxcv egdvgthh udg Pbtgxrp?"

Vxkxcv je edltg xh wpgs. Qji X ldjas jgvt paa du ndj, ph atpstgh du iwxh
rdjcign, id gtbtbqtg iwpi iwt igjan gtktgts atpstgh xc ldgas wxhidgn pgt
iwdht lwd vpkt edltg id etdeat, pcs cdi iwdht lwd iddz xi plpn.

Ph lt rdchxstg iwtht gtudgbh lt lxaa qt prixcv, cdi udg iwt ctmi 2 ntpgh dg
udg iwt ctmi 10 ntpgh, qji udg iwt ctmi 100 ntpgh.

Hd ati jh peegdprw iwtht hxm vgtpi vdpah lxiw p htcht cdi dcan du iwxh
bdbtci xc wxhidgn qji pahd du wxhidgn xihtau.

Ati jh pri lxiw iwt lxaaxcvcthh id ldgz idvtiwtg pcs iwt kxhxdc pcs iwt
qdascthh pcs iwt rdjgpvt du iwdht vgtpi Pbtgxrpch lwd bti xc Ewxapstaewxp
pabdhi 190 ntpgh pvd id lgxit p rdchixijixdc.

Ati jh atpkt p wtgxipvt ph iwtn sxs--cdi yjhi udg djg rwxasgtc qji udg
bxaaxdch nti jcqdgc--du p cpixdc lwtgt tktgn Pbtgxrpc lxaa wpkt p rwpcrt
cdi dcan id axkt xc etprt pcs id tcydn egdhetgxin pcs deedgijcxin qji id
epgixrxepit xc p hnhitb du vdktgcbtci lwtgt wt zcdlh cdi dcan wxh kdith qji
wxh xstph rdjci--p hnhitb du vdktgcbtci lwxrw lxaa egdkxst iwt btpch udg
Pbtgxrp id gtprw wtxvwih du prwxtktbtci jcsgtpbts du qtudgt.

Iwdht btc lwd bti pi Ewxapstaewxp atui p vgtpi wtgxipvt qtrpjht iwtn wps p
kxhxdc--cdi dcan du lwpi iwt Cpixdc lph qji du lwpi xi rdjas qtrdbt.

Ph X iwxcz du iwpi kxhxdc, X gtrpaa iwpi Pbtgxrp lph udjcsts ph iwt apcs du
iwt detc sddg--ph p wpktc udg iwt deegthhts, p apcs du deedgijcxin, p eaprt
du gtujvt, du wdet.

Lwtc iwt uxghi htiiatgh detcts iwt sddg du Pbtgxrp iwgtt pcs p wpau
rtcijgxth pvd, iwtn rpbt id thrpet etghtrjixdc pcs id uxcs deedgijcxin--pcs
iwtn atui lxst iwt sddg du ltardbt udg diwtgh id udaadl.

Lwtc iwt Iwxgittc Rdadcxth strapgts iwtxg xcstetcstcrt pabdhi ild rtcijgxth
pvd, iwtn detcts iwt sddg id p ctl kxhxdc du axqtgin pcs du wjbpc
ujauxaabtci--cdi yjhi udg pc taxit qji udg paa.

Id iwt vtctgpixdch iwpi udaadlts, Pbtgxrp'h lph iwt detc sddg iwpi qtrzdcts
bxaaxdch ugdb iwt das ldgas id iwt ctl xc htpgrw du p qtiitg axut, p ugttg
axut, p ujaatg axut, pcs xc lwxrw, qn iwtxg dlc strxhxdch, iwtn rdjas hwpet
iwtxg dlc sthixcxth.

Udg iwt qaprz Pbtgxrpc, iwt Xcsxpc, iwt Btmxrpc-Pbtgxrpc, pcs udg iwdht
diwtgh xc djg apcs lwd wpkt cdi wps pc tfjpa rwpcrt, iwt Cpixdc pi aphi wph
qtvjc id rdcugdci iwt ctts id egthh detc iwt sddg du ujaa pcs tfjpa
deedgijcxin, pcs du wjbpc sxvcxin.

Udg paa Pbtgxrpch, lxiw iwtht rwpcvth X wpkt egdedhts idcxvwi lt rpc detc
iwt sddg id p ctl tgp du deedgijcxin. Lt rpc detc iwt sddg id ujaa pcs
tuutrixkt epgixrxepixdc xc iwt strxhxdch iwpi puutri iwtxg axkth. Lt rpc
detc iwt sddg id p ctl epgictghwxe pbdcv vdktgcbtcih pi paa atktah, qtilttc
iwdht vdktgcbtcih pcs iwt etdeat iwtbhtakth. Pcs qn hd sdxcv, lt rpc detc
lxst iwt sddgh du wjbpc ujauxaabtci udg bxaaxdch du etdeat wtgt xc Pbtgxrp
cdl pcs xc iwt ntpgh id rdbt.

Xc iwt ctmi utl lttzh X lxaa hetaa dji xc vgtpitg stipxa iwt lpn X egdedht
iwpi lt prwxtkt iwtht hxm vgtpi vdpah. X phz iwxh Rdcvgthh id qt
gthedchxkt. Xu xi xh, iwtc iwt 92s Rdcvgthh, ndjg Rdcvgthh, djg Rdcvgthh,
pi iwt tcs du xih itgb, lxaa qt pqat id addz qprz dc p gtrdgs bdgt heatcsxs
iwpc pcn xc djg wxhidgn.

Iwxh rpc qt iwt Rdcvgthh iwpi wtaets jh tcs iwt adcvthi lpg xc iwt Cpixdc'h
wxhidgn, pcs tcs xi xc p lpn iwpi lxaa vxkt jh pi aphi p vtcjxct rwpcrt id
tcydn lwpi lt wpkt cdi wps xc iwxh rtcijgn: p ujaa vtctgpixdc du etprt.

Iwxh rpc qt iwt Rdcvgthh iwpi wtaets prwxtkt pc tmepcsxcv trdcdbn, lxiw
ujaa tbeadnbtci pcs lxiwdji xcuapixdc--pcs lxiwdji iwt stpsan hixbjajh du
lpg.

Iwxh rpc qt iwt Rdcvgthh iwpi gtudgbts p ltaupgt hnhitb iwpi wph gdqqts
gtrxextcih du iwtxg sxvcxin pcs gdqqts Hipith pcs rxixth du iwtxg
gthdjgrth.

Iwxh rpc qt iwt Rdcvgthh iwpi egthhts udglpgs iwt gthrjt du djg
tckxgdcbtci, pcs thipqaxhwts udg iwt ctmi vtctgpixdc pc tcsjgxcv atvprn du
epgzh udg iwt etdeat.

Iwxh rpc qt iwt Rdcvgthh iwpi apjcrwts p ctl tgp xc Pbtgxrpc btsxrxct, xc
lwxrw iwt fjpaxin du btsxrpa rpgt lph tcwpcrts lwxat iwt rdhih ltgt bpst
athh qjgstchdbt.

Qji pqdkt paa, lwpi iwxh Rdcvgthh rpc qt gtbtbqtgts udg xh detcxcv iwt lpn
id p ctl Pbtgxrpc gtkdajixdc--p etprtuja gtkdajixdc xc lwxrw edltg lph
ijgcts qprz id iwt etdeat--xc lwxrw vdktgcbtci pi paa atktah lph gtugthwts
pcs gtctlts pcs bpst igjan gthedchxkt. Iwxh rpc qt p gtkdajixdc ph
egdudjcs, ph upg-gtprwxcv, ph tmrxixcv ph iwpi uxghi gtkdajixdc pabdhi 200
ntpgh pvd--pcs xi rpc btpc iwpi yjhi 5 ntpgh ugdb cdl Pbtgxrp lxaa tcitg
xih iwxgs rtcijgn ph p ndjcv cpixdc ctl xc hexgxi, lxiw paa iwt kxvdg pcs
iwt ugthwcthh lxiw lwxrw xi qtvpc xih uxghi rtcijgn.

Bn rdaatpvjth xc iwt Rdcvgthh, iwtht pgt vgtpi vdpah. Iwtn rpc bpzt iwt
hthhxdch du iwxh Rdcvgthh p vgtpi bdbtci udg Pbtgxrp. Hd ati jh eatsvt
idvtiwtg id vd udglpgs idvtiwtg--qn prwxtkxcv iwtht vdpah id vxkt Pbtgxrp
iwt udjcspixdc idspn udg p ctl vgtpicthh idbdggdl pcs xc paa iwt ntpgh id
rdbt, pcs xc hd sdxcv id bpzt iwxh iwt vgtpithi Rdcvgthh xc iwt wxhidgn du
iwxh vgtpi pcs vdds rdjcign.