Wr wkh Frqjuhvv ri wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv:

Wkh wudglwlrqdo irup ri wkh Suhvlghqw'v dqqxdo uhsruw jlylqj "wr wkh
Frqjuhvv Lqirupdwlrq ri wkh Vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq" lv d vlqjoh phvvdjh ru
dgguhvv. Dv wkh diidluv dqg frqfhuqv ri rxu Xqlrq kdyh pxowlsolhg ryhu wkh
bhduv, krzhyhu, vr wrr kdyh wkh vxemhfwv wkdw uhtxluh glvfxvvlrq lq Vwdwh
ri wkh Xqlrq Phvvdjhv.

Wklv bhdu lq sduwlfxodu, zlwk vr pdqb fkdqjhv lq Jryhuqphqw surjudpv xqghu
frqvlghudwlrq--dqg zlwk rxu yhub sklorvrskb derxw wkh uhodwlrqvkls ehwzhhq
wkh lqglylgxdo dqg wkh Vwdwh dw dq klvwrulf furvvurdgv--d vlqjoh,
doo-hpeudflqj Vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq Phvvdjh zrxog qrw dsshdu wr eh dghtxdwh.

L kdyh wkhuhiruh ghflghg wr suhvhqw pb 1973 Vwdwh ri wkh Xqlrq uhsruw lq
wkh irup ri d vhulhv ri phvvdjhv gxulqj wkhvh hduob zhhnv ri wkh 93ug
Frqjuhvv. Wkh sxusrvh ri wklv iluvw phvvdjh lq wkh vhulhv lv wr jlyh d
frqflvh ryhuylhz ri zkhuh zh vwdqg dv d shrsoh wrgdb, dqg wr rxwolqh vrph
ri wkh jhqhudo jrdov wkdw L eholhyh zh vkrxog sxuvxh ryhu wkh qhaw bhdu dqg
ehbrqg. Lq frplqj zhhnv, L zloo vhqg wr wkh Frqjuhvv ixuwkhu Vwdwh ri wkh
Xqlrq uhsruwv rq vshflilf duhdv ri srolfb lqfoxglqj hfrqrplf diidluv,
qdwxudo uhvrxufhv, kxpdq uhvrxufhv, frppxqlwb ghyhorsphqw dqg iruhljq dqg
ghihqvh srolfb.

Wkh qhz frxuvh wkhvh phvvdjhv zloo rxwolqh uhsuhvhqwv d iuhvk dssurdfk wr
Jryhuqphqw: dq dssurdfk wkdw dgguhvvhv wkh uhdolwlhv ri wkh 1970v, qrw
wkrvh ri wkh 1930v ru ri wkh 1960v. Wkh uroh ri wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw dv
zh dssurdfk rxu wklug fhqwxub ri lqghshqghqfh vkrxog qrw eh wr grplqdwh dqb
idfhw ri Dphulfdq olih, exw udwkhu wr dlg dqg hqfrxudjh shrsoh, frppxqlwlhv
dqg lqvwlwxwlrqv wr ghdo zlwk dv pdqb ri wkh gliilfxowlhv dqg fkdoohqjhv
idflqj wkhp dv srvvleoh, dqg wr khos vhh wr lw wkdw hyhub Dphulfdq kdv d
ixoo dqg htxdo rssruwxqlwb wr uhdolch klv ru khu srwhqwldo.

Li zh zhuh wr frqwlqxh wr hasdqg wkh Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw dw wkh udwh ri wkh
sdvw vhyhudo ghfdghv, lw vrrq zrxog frqvxph xv hqwluhob. Wkh wlph kdv frph
zkhq zh pxvw pdnh fohdu fkrlfhv--fkrlfhv ehwzhhq rog surjudpv wkdw vhw
zruwkb jrdov exw idlohg wr uhdfk wkhp dqg qhz surjudpv wkdw surylgh d
ehwwhu zdb wr uhdolch wkrvh jrdov; dqg fkrlfhv, wrr, ehwzhhq frpshwlqj
surjudpv--doo ri zklfk pdb eh ghvludeoh lq wkhpvhoyhv exw rqob vrph ri
zklfk zh fdq diirug zlwk wkh ilqlwh uhvrxufhv dw rxu frppdqg.

Ehfdxvh rxu uhvrxufhv duh qrw lqilqlwh, zh dovr idfh d fulwlfdo fkrlfh lq
1973 ehwzhhq kroglqj wkh olqh lq Jryhuqphqw vshqglqj dqg dgrswlqj hashqvlyh
surjudpv zklfk zloo vxuhob irufh xs wdahv dqg uhixho lqiodwlrq.

Ilqdoob, lw lv ylwdo dw wklv wlph wkdw zh uhvwruh d juhdwhu vhqvh ri
uhvsrqvlelolwb dw wkh Vwdwh dqg orfdo ohyho, dqg dprqj lqglylgxdo
Dphulfdqv.

ZKHUH ZH VWDQG

Wkh edvlf vwdwh ri rxu Xqlrq wrgdb lv vrxqg, dqg ixoo ri surplvh.

Zh hqwhu 1973 hfrqrplfdoob vwurqj, plolwdulob vhfxuh dqg, prvw lpsruwdqw ri
doo, dw shdfh diwhu d orqj dqg wublqj zdu.

Dphulfd frqwlqxhv wr surylgh d ehwwhu dqg pruh dexqgdqw olih iru pruh ri
lwv shrsoh wkdq dqb rwkhu qdwlrq lq wkh zruog. Zh kdyh sdvvhg wkurxjk rqh
ri wkh prvw gliilfxow shulrgv lq rxu klvwrub zlwkrxw vxuuhqghulqj wr
ghvsdlu dqg zlwkrxw glvkrqrulqj rxu lghdov dv d shrsoh.

Orrnlqj edfn, wkhuh lv d ohvvrq lq doo wklv iru doo ri xv. Wkh ohvvrq lv
rqh wkdw zh vrphwlphv kdg wr ohduq wkh kdug zdb ryhu wkh sdvw ihz bhduv.
Exw zh glg ohduq lw. Wkdw ohvvrq lv wkdw hyhq srwhqwldoob ghvwuxfwlyh
irufhv fdq eh frqyhuwhg lqwr srvlwlyh irufhv zkhq zh nqrz krz wr fkdqqho
wkhp, dqg zkhq zh xvh frpprq vhqvh dqg frpprq ghfhqfb wr fuhdwh d folpdwh
ri pxwxdo uhvshfw dqg jrrgzloo.

Eb zrunlqj wrjhwkhu dqg kduqhvvlqj wkh irufhv ri qdwxuh, Dphulfdqv kdyh
xqorfnhg vrph ri wkh juhdw pbvwhulhv ri wkh xqlyhuvh.

Phq kdyh zdonhg wkh vxuidfh ri wkh prrq dqg vrduhg wr qhz khljkwv ri
glvfryhub.

Wklv vdph vslulw ri glvfryhub lv khoslqj xv wr frqtxhu glvhdvh dqg
vxiihulqj wkdw kdyh sodjxhg rxu rzq sodqhw vlqfh wkh gdzq ri wlph.

Eb zrunlqj wrjhwkhu zlwk wkh ohdghuv ri rwkhu qdwlrqv, zh kdyh ehhq deoh wr
exlog d qhz krsh iru odvwlqj shdfh--iru d vwuxfwxuh ri zruog rughu lq zklfk
frpprq lqwhuhvw rxwzhljkv rog dqlprvlwlhv, dqg lq zklfk d qhz jhqhudwlrq ri
wkh kxpdq idplob fdq jurz xs dw shdfh lq d fkdqjlqj zruog.

Dw krph, zh kdyh ohduqhg wkdw eb zrunlqj wrjhwkhu zh fdq fuhdwh survshulwb
zlwkrxw idqqlqj lqiodwlrq; zh fdq uhvwruh rughu zlwkrxw zhdnhqlqj iuhhgrp.

WKH FKDOOHQJHV ZH IDFH

Wkhvh iluvw bhduv ri wkh 1970v kdyh ehhq jrrg bhduv iru Dphulfd.

Rxu mre--doo ri xv wrjhwkhu--lv wr pdnh 1973 dqg wkh bhduv wr frph hyhq
ehwwhu rqhv. L eholhyh wkdw zh fdq. L eholhyh wkdw zh fdq pdnh wkh bhduv
ohdglqj wr rxu Elfhqwhqqldo wkh ehvw irxu bhduv lq Dphulfdq klvwrub.

Exw zh pxvw qhyhu irujhw wkdw qrwklqj zruwkzkloh fdq eh dfklhyhg zlwkrxw
wkh zloo wr vxffhhg dqg wkh vwuhqjwk wr vdfulilfh.

Kdug ghflvlrqv pxvw eh pdgh, dqg zh pxvw vwlfn eb wkhp.

Lq wkh ilhog ri iruhljq srolfb, zh pxvw uhphpehu wkdw d vwurqj Dphulfd--dq
Dphulfd zkrvh zrug lv eholhyhg dqg zkrvh vwuhqjwk lv uhvshfwhg--lv
hvvhqwldo wr frqwlqxhg shdfh dqg xqghuvwdqglqj lq wkh zruog. Wkh shdfh zlwk
krqru zh kdyh dfklhyhg lq Ylhwqdp kdv vwuhqjwkhqhg wklv edvlf Dphulfdq
fuhglelolwb. Zh pxvw dfw lq vxfk d zdb lq frplqj bhduv wkdw wklv
fuhglelolwb zloo uhpdlq lqwdfw, dqg zlwk lw, wkh zruog vwdelolwb ri zklfk
lw lv vr lqglvshqvdeoh d sduw.

Dw krph, zh pxvw uhmhfw wkh plvwdnhq qrwlrq--d qrwlrq wkdw kdv grplqdwhg
wrr pxfk ri wkh sxeolf gldorjxh iru wrr orqj--wkdw hyhu eljjhu Jryhuqphqw
lv wkh dqvzhu wr hyhub sureohp.

Zh kdyh ohduqhg rqob wrr zhoo wkdw khdyb wdadwlrq dqg hafhvvlyh Jryhuqphqw
vshqglqj duh qrw d fxuh-doo. Lq wrr pdqb fdvhv, lqvwhdg ri vroylqj wkh
sureohpv wkhb zhuh dlphg dw, wkhb kdyh phuhob sodfhg dq hyhu khdylhu exughq
rq wkh vkrxoghuv ri wkh Dphulfdq wdasdbhu, lq wkh irup ri kljkhu wdahv dqg
d kljkhu frvw ri olylqj. Dw wkh vdph wlph wkhb kdyh ghfhlyhg rxu shrsoh
ehfdxvh pdqb ri wkh lqwhqghg ehqhilfldulhv uhfhlyhg idu ohvv wkdq zdv
surplvhg, wkxv xqghuplqlqj sxeolf idlwk lq wkh hiihfwlyhqhvv ri Jryhuqphqw
dv d zkroh.

Wkh wlph kdv frph iru xv wr gudz wkh olqh. Wkh wlph kdv frph iru wkh
uhvsrqvleoh ohdghuv ri erwk srolwlfdo sduwlhv wr wdnh d vwdqg djdlqvw
ryhujurzq Jryhuqphqw dqg iru wkh Dphulfdq wdasdbhu. Zh duh qrw vshqglqj wkh
Ihghudo Jryhuqphqw'v prqhb, zh duh vshqglqj wkh wdasdbhu'v prqhb, dqg lw
pxvw eh vshqw lq d zdb zklfk jxdudqwhhv klv prqhb'v zruwk dqg blhogv wkh
ixoohvw srvvleoh ehqhilw wr wkh shrsoh ehlqj khoshg.

Wkh dqvzhu wr pdqb ri wkh grphvwlf sureohpv zh idfh lv qrw kljkhu wdahv dqg
pruh vshqglqj. Lw lv ohvv zdvwh, pruh uhvxowv dqg juhdwhu iuhhgrp iru wkh
lqglylgxdo Dphulfdq wr hduq d uljkwixo sodfh lq klv rzq frppxqlwb--dqg iru
Vwdwhv dqg orfdolwlhv wr dgguhvv wkhlu rzq qhhgv lq wkhlu rzq zdbv, lq wkh
oljkw ri wkhlu rzq sulrulwlhv.

Eb jlylqj wkh shrsoh dqg wkhlu orfdoob hohfwhg ohdghuv d juhdwhu yrlfh
wkurxjk fkdqjhv vxfk dv uhyhqxh vkdulqj, dqg eb vdblqj "qr" wr hafhvvlyh
Ihghudo vshqglqj dqg kljkhu wdahv, zh fdq khos dfklhyh wklv jrdo.

FRPLQJ PHVVDJHV

Wkh srolflhv zklfk L zloo rxwolqh wr wkh Frqjuhvv lq wkh zhhnv dkhdg
uhsuhvhqw d uhdiilupdwlrq, qrw dq deglfdwlrq, ri Ihghudo uhvsrqvlelolwb.
Wkhb uhsuhvhqw d sudjpdwlf uhghglfdwlrq wr vrfldo frpsdvvlrq dqg qdwlrqdo
hafhoohqfh, lq sodfh ri wkh frpelqdwlrq ri jrrg lqwhqwlrqv dqg ixccb
iroorz-wkurxjk zklfk wrr riwhq lq wkh sdvw zdv wkrxjkw vxiilflhqw.

Lq wkh ilhog ri hfrqrplf diidluv, rxu remhfwlyhv zloo eh wr krog grzq
wdahv, wr frqwlqxh frqwuroolqj lqiodwlrq, wr surprwh hfrqrplf jurzwk, wr
lqfuhdvh surgxfwlylwb, wr hqfrxudjh iruhljq wudgh, wr nhhs idup lqfrph
kljk, wr erovwhu vpdoo exvlqhvv, dqg wr surprwh ehwwhu oderu-pdqdjhphqw
uhodwlrqv.

Lq wkh duhd ri qdwxudo uhvrxufhv, pb uhfrpphqgdwlrqv zloo lqfoxgh surjudpv
wr suhvhuyh dqg hqkdqfh wkh hqylurqphqw, wr dgydqfh vflhqfh dqg whfkqrorjb,
dqg wr dvvxuh edodqfhg xvh ri rxu luuhsodfhdeoh qdwxudo uhvrxufhv.

Lq ghyhorslqj kxpdq uhvrxufhv, L zloo kdyh uhfrpphqgdwlrqv wr dgydqfh wkh
Qdwlrq'v khdowk dqg hgxfdwlrq, wr lpsuryh frqglwlrqv ri shrsoh lq qhhg, wr
fduub iruzdug rxu lqfuhdvlqjob vxffhvvixo dwwdfnv rq fulph, guxj dexvh dqg
lqmxvwlfh, dqg wr ghdo zlwk vxfk lpsruwdqw duhdv ri vshfldo frqfhuq dv
frqvxphu diidluv. Zh zloo frqwlqxh dqg lpsuryh rxu Qdwlrq'v hiiruwv wr
dvvlvw wkrvh zkr kdyh vhuyhg lq wkh Duphg Vhuylfhv lq Ylhwqdp wkurxjk
ehwwhu mre dqg wudlqlqj rssruwxqlwlhv.

Zh pxvw gr d ehwwhu mre lq frppxqlwb ghyhorsphqw--lq fuhdwlqj pruh olydeoh
frppxqlwlhv, lq zklfk doo ri rxu fkloguhq fdq jurz xs zlwk ixoohu dffhvv wr
rssruwxqlwb dqg juhdwhu lppxqlwb wr wkh vrfldo hylov dqg eoljkwv zklfk qrz
sodjxh vr pdqb ri rxu wrzqv dqg flwlhv. L vkdoo kdyh sursrvdov wr khos xv
dfklhyh wklv.

L vkdoo dovr ghdo zlwk rxu ghihqvh dqg iruhljq srolflhv, dqg zlwk rxu qhz
dssurdfkhv wr wkh uroh dqg vwuxfwxuh ri Jryhuqphqw lwvhoi.

Frqvlghuhg dv d zkroh, wklv vhulhv ri phvvdjhv zloo eh d eoxhsulqw iru
prghuqlclqj wkh frqfhsw dqg wkh ixqfwlrqv ri Dphulfdq Jryhuqphqw wr phhw
wkh qhhgv ri rxu shrsoh.

Frqyhuwlqj lw lqwr uhdolwb zloo uhtxluh d vslulw ri frrshudwlrq dqg vkduhg
frpplwphqw rq wkh sduw ri doo eudqfkhv ri wkh Jryhuqphqw, iru wkh jrdov zh
vhhn duh qrw wkrvh ri dqb vlqjoh sduwb ru idfwlrq, wkhb duh jrdov iru wkh
ehwwhuphqw ri doo Dphulfdqv. Dv Suhvlghqw, L uhfrjqlch wkdw L fdqqrw gr
wklv mre dorqh. Wkh Frqjuhvv pxvw khos, dqg L sohgjh wr gr pb sduw wr
dfklhyh d frqvwuxfwlyh zrunlqj uhodwlrqvkls zlwk wkh Frqjuhvv. Pb vlqfhuh
krsh lv wkdw wkh hahfxwlyh dqg ohjlvodwlyh eudqfkhv fdq zrun wrjhwkhu lq
wklv juhdw xqghuwdnlqj lq d srvlwlyh vslulw ri pxwxdo uhvshfw dqg
frrshudwlrq.

Zrunlqj wrjhwkhu--wkh Frqjuhvv, wkh Suhvlghqw dqg wkh shrsoh--L dp
frqilghqw wkdw zh fdq wudqvodwh wkhvh sursrvdov lqwr dq dfwlrq surjudp wkdw
fdq uhirup dqg uhylwdolch Dphulfdq Jryhuqphqw dqg, hyhq pruh lpsruwdqw,
exlog d ehwwhu olih iru doo Dphulfdqv.

Wkh Zklwh Krxvh,

Iheuxdub 2, 1973.