Va. Bynjtna, Va. Yanbrmnwc, vh lxuunjpdnb rw cqn Lxwpanbb, xda
mrbcrwpdrbqnm pdnbcb, vh onuuxf Jvnarljwb:

Cfnwch-oren hnjab jpx R bjc qnan jb j oanbqvjw Lxwpanbbvjw--juxwp frcq
Bynjtna Juknac--jwm urbcnwnm oxa cqn orabc crvn cx cqn Yanbrmnwc jmmanbb
cqn Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw.

R bqjuu wnena oxapnc cqjc vxvnwc. Cqn Bnwjcn, cqn mryuxvjcrl lxayb, cqn
Bdyanvn Lxdac, cqn Ljkrwnc nwcnanm cqn Lqjvkna, jwm cqnw cqn Yanbrmnwc xo
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Jb juu xo hxd jan jfjan, R qjm bxvn mroonanwlnb frcq
Yanbrmnwc Cadvjw. Qn qjm bxvn frcq vn. Kdc R anvnvkna cqjc xw cqjc mjh--cqn
mjh qn jmmanbbnm cqjc sxrwc bnbbrxw xo cqn wnfuh nunlcnm Anydkurljw 80cq
Lxwpanbb, qn byxtn wxc jb j yjacrbjw, kdc jb Yanbrmnwc xo juu cqn
ynxyun--ljuurwp dyxw cqn Lxwpanbb cx ydc jbrmn yjacrbjw lxwbrmnajcrxwb rw
cqn wjcrxwju rwcnanbc.

Cqn Pannt-Cdatrbq jrm yaxpajv, cqn Vjabqjuu Yujw, cqn panjc oxanrpw yxurlh
rwrcrjcrenb fqrlq qjen knnw anbyxwbrkun oxa jexrmrwp j fxaum fja oxa xena
25 hnjab fnan jyyaxenm kh cqn 80cq Lxwpanbb, kh j kryjacrbjw vjsxarch xo
fqrlq R fjb yaxdm cx kn j yjac.

Wrwncnnw qdwmanm bnenwch-cfx rb wxf knoxan db. Rc qxumb yanlrxdb crvn rw
fqrlq cx jllxvyurbq pxxm oxa cqn Wjcrxw. Fn vdbc wxc fjbcn rc. R twxf cqn
yxurcrlju yanbbdanb rw cqrb bnbbrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb fruu kn panjc. Cqnan
jan vxan ljwmrmjcnb oxa cqn Yanbrmnwlh rw cqrb Lqjvkna cxmjh cqjw cqnan
yaxkjkuh qjen knnw jc jwh xwn crvn rw cqn fqxun qrbcxah xo cqn Anydkurl.
Jwm cqnan rb jw qxwnbc mroonanwln xo xyrwrxw, wxc xwuh kncfnnw cqn yjacrnb,
kdc frcqrw njlq yjach, xw bxvn oxanrpw yxurlh rbbdnb jwm xw bxvn mxvnbcrl
yxurlh rbbdnb.

Qxfnena, cqnan jan panjc wjcrxwju yaxkunvb cqjc jan bx ercju cqjc cqnh
cajwblnwm yjacrbjwbqry. Bx unc db qjen xda mnkjcnb. Unc db qjen xda qxwnbc
mroonanwlnb. Kdc unc db sxrw rw tnnyrwp cqn wjcrxwju rwcnanbc orabc. Unc db
sxrw rw vjtrwp bdan cqjc unprbujcrxw cqn Wjcrxw wnnmb mxnb wxc knlxvn
qxbcjpn cx cqn yxurcrlju rwcnanbcb xo jwh yjach xa jwh ynabxw.

Cqnan rb jvyun yanlnmnwc, rw cqrb nunlcrxw hnja, oxa vn cx yanbnwc hxd frcq
j qdpn urbc xo wnf yaxyxbjub, twxfrwp oduu fnuu cqjc cqnan fxdum wxc kn jwh
yxbbrkrurch xo hxda yjbbrwp cqnv ro hxd fxatnm wrpqc jwm mjh.

R bqjuu wxc mx cqjc.

R qjen yanbnwcnm cx cqn unjmnab xo cqn Lxwpanbb cxmjh j vnbbjpn xo 15,000
fxamb mrbldbbrwp rw bxvn mncjru fqnan cqn Wjcrxw bcjwmb jwm bnccrwp oxacq
bynlrorl unprbujcren rcnvb xw fqrlq R qjen jbtnm cqn Lxwpanbb cx jlc. Vdlq
xo cqrb rb unprbujcrxw fqrlq R yaxyxbnm rw 1969, rw 1970, jwm jubx rw cqn
orabc bnbbrxw xo cqrb 92m Lxwpanbb jwm xw fqrlq R onnu rc rb nbbnwcrju cqjc
jlcrxw kn lxvyuncnm cqrb hnja.

R jv wxc yanbnwcrwp yaxyxbjub fqrlq qjen jccajlcren ujknub kdc wx qxyn xo
yjbbjpn. R jv yanbnwcrwp xwuh ercju yaxpajvb fqrlq jan frcqrw cqn ljyjlrch
xo cqrb Lxwpanbb cx nwjlc, frcqrw cqn ljyjlrch xo cqn kdmpnc cx orwjwln,
jwm fqrlq R knurnen bqxdum kn jkxen yjacrbjwbqry--yaxpajvb fqrlq mnju frcq
dapnwc yarxarcrnb oxa cqn Wjcrxw, fqrlq bqxdum jwm vdbc kn cqn bdksnlc xo
kryjacrbjw jlcrxw kh cqrb Lxwpanbb rw cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn lxdwcah rw
1972.

Fqnw R cxxt cqn xjcq xo xoorln xw cqn bcnyb xo cqrb kdrumrwp sdbc 3 hnjab
jpx cxmjh, cqn Wjcrxw fjb nwmrwp xwn xo cqn vxbc cxacdanm mnljmnb rw rcb
qrbcxah.

Cqn 1960'b fnan j crvn xo panjc yaxpanbb rw vjwh janjb. Kdc jb fn juu twxf,
cqnh fnan jubx crvnb xo panjc jpxwh--cqn jpxwrnb xo fja, xo rwoujcrxw, xo
ajyrmuh arbrwp larvn, xo mncnarxajcrwp crcunb, xo qxynb ajrbnm jwm
mrbjyyxrwcnm, jwm xo jwpna jwm oadbcajcrxw cqjc unm orwjuuh cx erxunwln jwm
cx cqn fxabc lreru mrbxamna rw j lnwcdah.

R anljuu cqnbn caxdkunb wxc cx yxrwc jwh orwpnab xo kujvn. Cqn Wjcrxw fjb
bx cxaw rw cqxbn orwju hnjab xo cqn brgcrnb cqjc vjwh rw kxcq yjacrnb
zdnbcrxwnm fqncqna Jvnarlj lxdum kn pxenawnm jc juu.

Cqn Wjcrxw qjb vjmn brpwrorljwc yaxpanbb rw cqnbn orabc hnjab xo cqn
bnenwcrnb:

Xda lrcrnb jan wx uxwpna nwpduonm kh lreru mrbxamnab.

Xda lxuunpnb jwm dwrenabrcrnb qjen jpjrw knlxvn yujlnb xo unjawrwp rwbcnjm
xo kjccunpaxdwmb.

J knprwwrwp qjb knnw vjmn rw yanbnaerwp jwm yaxcnlcrwp xda nweraxwvnwc.

Cqn ajcn xo rwlanjbn rw larvn qjb knnw buxfnm--jwm qnan rw cqn Mrbcarlc xo
Lxudvkrj, cqn xwn lrch fqnan cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc qjb mranlc
sdarbmrlcrxw, bnarxdb larvn rw 1971 fjb jlcdjuuh anmdlnm kh 13 ynalnwc oaxv
cqn hnja knoxan.

Vxbc rvyxacjwc, knljdbn xo cqn knprwwrwpb cqjc qjen knnw vjmn, fn ljw bjh
cxmjh cqjc cqrb hnja 1972 ljw kn cqn hnja rw fqrlq Jvnarlj vjh vjtn cqn
panjcnbc yaxpanbb rw 25 hnjab cxfjam jlqrnerwp xda pxju xo knrwp jc ynjln
frcq juu cqn wjcrxwb xo cqn fxaum.

Jb xda rwexuenvnwc rw cqn fja rw Erncwjv lxvnb cx jw nwm, fn vdbc wxf px xw
cx kdrum j pnwnajcrxw xo ynjln.

Cx jlqrnen cqjc pxju, fn vdbc orabc ojln anjurbcrljuuh cqn wnnm cx vjrwcjrw
xda mnonwbn.

Rw cqn yjbc 3 hnjab, fn qjen anmdlnm cqn kdamnw xo javb. Oxa cqn orabc crvn
rw 20 hnjab, bynwmrwp xw mnonwbn qjb knnw kaxdpqc knuxf bynwmrwp xw qdvjw
anbxdalnb.

Jb fn uxxt cx cqn odcdan, fn orwm nwlxdajprwp yaxpanbb rw xda wnpxcrjcrxwb
frcq cqn Bxernc Dwrxw xw urvrcjcrxw xo bcajcnprl javb. Jwm uxxtrwp odacqna
rwcx cqn odcdan, fn qxyn cqnan ljw nenwcdjuuh kn jpannvnwc xw cqn vdcdju
anmdlcrxw xo javb. Kdc dwcru cqnan rb bdlq j vdcdju jpannvnwc, fn vdbc
vjrwcjrw cqn bcanwpcq wnlnbbjah cx mncna fja.

Jwm cqjc rb fqh, knljdbn xo arbrwp anbnjalq jwm mnenuxyvnwc lxbcb, knljdbn
xo rwlanjbnb rw vrurcjah jwm lrerurjw yjh, knljdbn xo cqn wnnm cx yaxlnnm
frcq wnf fnjyxwb bhbcnvb, vh kdmpnc oxa cqn lxvrwp orblju hnja fruu yaxermn
oxa jw rwlanjbn rw mnonwbn bynwmrwp.

Bcaxwp vrurcjah mnonwbnb jan wxc cqn nwnvh xo ynjln; cqnh jan cqn pdjamrjwb
xo ynjln.

Cqnan lxdum kn wx vxan vrbpdrmnm bnc xo yarxarcrnb cqjw xwn fqrlq fxdum
cnvyc xcqnab kh fnjtnwrwp Jvnarlj, jwm cqnankh nwmjwpna cqn ynjln xo cqn
fxaum.

Rw xda oxanrpw yxurlh, fn qjen nwcnanm j wnf naj. Cqn fxaum qjb lqjwpnm
panjcuh rw cqn 11 hnjab brwln Yanbrmnwc Sxqw Tnwwnmh bjrm rw qrb Rwjdpdaju
Jmmanbb, "... fn bqjuu yjh jwh yarln, knja jwh kdamnw, vnnc jwh qjambqry,
bdyyxac jwh oarnwm, xyyxbn jwh oxn cx jbbdan cqn bdaereju jwm cqn bdllnbb
xo urknach."

Xda yxurlh qjb knnw ljanoduuh jwm mnurknajcnuh jmsdbcnm cx vnnc cqn wnf
anjurcrnb xo cqn wnf fxaum fn uren rw. Fn vjtn cxmjh xwuh cqxbn lxvvrcvnwcb
fn jan jkun jwm yanyjanm cx vnnc.

Xda lxvvrcvnwc cx oannmxv anvjrwb bcaxwp jwm dwbqjtjkun. Kdc xcqnab vdbc
knja cqnra bqjan xo cqn kdamnw xo mnonwmrwp oannmxv jaxdwm cqn fxaum.

Jwm bx cqrb, cqnw, rb xda yxurlh:

--Fn fruu vjrwcjrw j wdlunja mncnaanwc jmnzdjcn cx vnnc jwh cqanjc cx cqn
bnldarch xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xa xo xda juurnb.

--Fn fruu qnuy xcqna wjcrxwb mnenuxy cqn ljyjkrurch xo mnonwmrwp
cqnvbnuenb.

--Fn fruu ojrcqoduuh qxwxa juu xo xda canjch lxvvrcvnwcb.

--Fn fruu jlc cx mnonwm xda rwcnanbcb, fqnwnena jwm fqnanena cqnh jan
cqanjcnwnm jwhyujln rw cqn fxaum.

--Kdc fqnan xda rwcnanbcb xa xda canjch lxvvrcvnwcb jan wxc rwexuenm, xda
axun fruu kn urvrcnm.

--Fn fruu wxc rwcnaenwn vrurcjaruh.

--Kdc fn fruu dbn xda rwoudnwln cx yanenwc fja.

--Ro fja lxvnb, fn fruu dbn xda rwoudnwln cx bcxy rc.

--Xwln rc rb xena, fn fruu mx xda bqjan rw qnuyrwp cx krwm dy cqn fxdwmb xo
cqxbn fqx qjen yjacrlryjcnm rw rc.

Jb hxd twxf, R fruu bxxw kn erbrcrwp cqn Ynxyun'b Anydkurl xo Lqrwj jwm cqn
Bxernc Dwrxw. R px cqnan frcq wx ruudbrxwb. Fn qjen panjc mroonanwlnb frcq
kxcq yxfnab. Fn bqjuu lxwcrwdn cx qjen panjc mroonanwlnb. Kdc ynjln mnynwmb
xw cqn jkrurch xo panjc yxfnab cx uren cxpncqna xw cqn bjvn yujwnc mnbyrcn
cqnra mroonanwlnb.

Fn fxdum wxc kn cadn cx xda xkurpjcrxw cx pnwnajcrxwb hnc dwkxaw ro fn
ojrunm cx bnrin cqrb vxvnwc cx mx nenahcqrwp rw xda yxfna cx rwbdan cqjc fn
fruu kn jkun cx cjut jkxdc cqxbn mroonanwlnb, ajcqna cqjw cx orpqc jkxdc
cqnv, rw cqn odcdan.

Jb fn uxxt kjlt xena cqrb lnwcdah, unc db, rw cqn qrpqnbc byrarc xo
kryjacrbjwbqry, anlxpwrin cqjc fn ljw kn yaxdm xo xda Wjcrxw'b anlxam rw
oxanrpw joojrab.

Jvnarlj qjb prenw vxan pnwnaxdbuh xo rcbnuo cxfjam vjrwcjrwrwp oannmxv,
yanbnaerwp ynjln, juunerjcrwp qdvjw bdoonarwp jaxdwm cqn puxkn, cqjw jwh
wjcrxw qjb nena mxwn rw cqn qrbcxah xo vjw.

Fn qjen oxdpqc oxda fjab rw cqrb lnwcdah, kdc xda yxfna qjb wnena knnw dbnm
cx kanjt cqn ynjln, xwuh cx tnny rc; wnena knnw dbnm cx mnbcaxh oannmxv,
xwuh cx mnonwm rc. Fn wxf qjen frcqrw xda anjlq cqn pxju xo rwbdarwp cqjc
cqn wngc pnwnajcrxw ljw kn cqn orabc pnwnajcrxw rw cqrb lnwcdah cx kn
byjanm cqn blxdapnb xo fja.

Cdawrwp cx xda yaxkunvb jc qxvn, fn jan vjtrwp yaxpanbb cxfjam xda pxju xo
j wnf yaxbynarch frcqxdc fja.

Rwmdbcarju yaxmdlcrxw, lxwbdvna bynwmrwp, ancjru bjunb, ynabxwju rwlxvn juu
qjen knnw arbrwp. Cxcju nvyuxhvnwc, anju rwlxvn jan cqn qrpqnbc rw qrbcxah.
Wnf qxvn kdrumrwp bcjacb cqrb yjbc hnja anjlqnm cqn qrpqnbc unenu nena.
Kdbrwnbb jwm lxwbdvna lxwormnwln qjen kxcq knnw arbrwp. Rwcnanbc ajcnb jan
mxfw. Cqn ajcn xo rwoujcrxw rb mxfw. Fn ljw uxxt frcq lxwormnwln cx 1972 jb
cqn hnja fqnw cqn kjlt xo rwoujcrxw fruu kn kaxtnw.

Wxf, cqrb j pxxm anlxam, kdc rc rb wxc pxxm nwxdpq--wxc fqnw fn bcruu qjen
jw dwnvyuxhvnwc ajcn xo 6 ynalnwc.

Rc rb wxc nwxdpq cx yxrwc xdc cqjc cqrb fjb cqn ajcn xo cqn njauh ynjlncrvn
hnjab xo cqn brgcrnb, xa cqjc ro cqn vxan cqjw 2 vruurxw vnw anunjbnm oaxv
cqn Javnm Oxalnb jwm mnonwbn-anujcnm rwmdbcarnb fnan bcruu rw cqnra fjacrvn
sxkb, dwnvyuxhvnwc fxdum kn oja uxfna.

Xda pxju rw cqrb lxdwcah rb oduu nvyuxhvnwc rw ynjlncrvn. Fn rwcnwm cx vnnc
cqjc pxju, jwm fn ljw.

Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb qnuynm cx vnnc cqjc pxju kh yjbbrwp xda sxk-lanjcrwp cjg
yaxpajv ujbc vxwcq.

Cqn qrbcxarl vxwncjah jpannvnwcb, jpannvnwcb cqjc fn qjen anjlqnm frcq cqn
vjsxa Ndaxynjw wjcrxwb, Ljwjmj, jwm Sjyjw, fruu qnuy vnnc rc kh yaxermrwp
wnf vjatncb oxa Jvnarljw yaxmdlcb, wnf sxkb oxa Jvnarljw fxatnab.

Xda kdmpnc fruu qnuy vnnc rc kh knrwp ngyjwbrxwjah frcqxdc knrwp
rwoujcrxwjah--j sxk-yaxmdlrwp kdmpnc cqjc fruu qnuy cjtn dy cqn pjy jb cqn
nlxwxvh ngyjwmb cx oduu nvyuxhvnwc.

Xda yaxpajv cx ajrbn ojav rwlxvn fruu qnuy vnnc rc kh qnuyrwp cx anercjurin
adaju Jvnarlj, kh prerwp cx Jvnarlj'b ojavnab cqnra ojra bqjan xo Jvnarlj'b
rwlanjbrwp yaxmdlcrerch.

Fn jubx fruu qnuy vnnc xda pxju xo oduu nvyuxhvnwc rw ynjlncrvn frcq j bnc
xo vjsxa rwrcrjcrenb cx bcrvdujcn vxan rvjprwjcren dbn xo Jvnarlj'b panjc
ljyjlrch oxa cnlqwxuxprlju jmejwln, jwm cx mranlc rc cxfjam rvyaxerwp cqn
zdjurch xo uron oxa nenah Jvnarljw.

Rw anjlqrwp cqn vxxw, fn mnvxwbcajcnm fqjc vrajlunb Jvnarljw cnlqwxuxph rb
ljyjkun xo jlqrnerwp. Wxf cqn crvn qjb lxvn cx vxen vxan mnurknajcnuh
cxfjam vjtrwp oduu dbn xo cqjc cnlqwxuxph qnan xw njacq, xo qjawnbbrwp cqn
fxwmnab xo blrnwln cx cqn bnaerln xo vjw.

R bqjuu bxxw bnwm cx cqn Lxwpanbb j bynlrju vnbbjpn yaxyxbrwp j wnf yaxpajv
xo Onmnaju yjacwnabqry rw cnlqwxuxprlju anbnjalq jwm mnenuxyvnwc--frcq
Onmnaju rwlnwcrenb cx rwlanjbn yarejcn anbnjalq, onmnajuuh bdyyxacnm
anbnjalq xw yaxsnlcb mnbrpwnm cx rvyaxen xda nenahmjh urenb rw fjhb cqjc
fruu ajwpn oaxv rvyaxerwp vjbb cajwbrc cx mnenuxyrwp wnf bhbcnvb xo
nvnapnwlh qnjucq ljan cqjc lxdum bjen cqxdbjwmb xo urenb jwwdjuuh.

Qrbcxarljuuh, xda bdynarxa cnlqwxuxph jwm qrpq yaxmdlcrerch qjen vjmn rc
yxbbrkun oxa Jvnarljw fxatnab cx kn cqn qrpqnbc yjrm rw cqn fxaum kh oja,
jwm hnc oxa xda pxxmb bcruu cx lxvyncn rw fxaum vjatncb.

Wxf fn ojln j wnf brcdjcrxw. Jb xcqna wjcrxwb vxen ajyrmuh oxafjam rw
cnlqwxuxph, cqn jwbfna cx cqn wnf lxvyncrcrxw rb wxc cx kdrum j fjuu jaxdwm
Jvnarlj, kdc ajcqna cx anvjrw lxvyncrcren kh rvyaxerwp xda xfw cnlqwxuxph
bcruu odacqna jwm kh rwlanjbrwp yaxmdlcrerch rw Jvnarljw rwmdbcah.

Xda wnf vxwncjah jwm cajmn jpannvnwcb fruu vjtn rc yxbbrkun oxa Jvnarljw
pxxmb cx lxvyncn ojrauh rw cqn fxaum'b vjatncb--kdc cqnh bcruu vdbc
lxvyncn. Cqn wnf cnlqwxuxph yaxpajv fruu ydc cx dbn cqn btruub xo vjwh
qrpquh cajrwnm Jvnarljwb, btruub cqjc vrpqc xcqnafrbn kn fjbcnm. Rc fruu
jubx vnnc cqn paxfrwp cnlqwxuxprlju lqjuunwpn oaxv jkaxjm, jwm rc fruu cqdb
qnuy cx lanjcn wnf rwmdbcarnb, jb fnuu jb lanjcrwp vxan sxkb oxa Jvnarlj'b
fxatnab rw yaxmdlrwp oxa cqn fxaum'b vjatncb.

Cqrb bnlxwm bnbbrxw xo cqn 92m Lxwpanbb juanjmh qjb knoxan rc vxan cqjw 90
vjsxa Jmvrwrbcajcrxw yaxyxbjub fqrlq bcruu jfjrc jlcrxw.

R qjen mrbldbbnm cqnbn rw cqn ngcnwbren farccnw vnbbjpn cqjc R qjen
yanbnwcnm cx cqn Lxwpanbb cxmjh.

Cqnh rwludmn, jvxwp xcqnab, xda yaxpajvb cx rvyaxen uron oxa cqn jprwp; cx
lxvkjc larvn jwm madp jkdbn; cx rvyaxen qnjucq bnaerlnb jwm cx nwbdan cqjc
wx xwn fruu kn mnwrnm wnnmnm qnjucq ljan knljdbn xo rwjkrurch cx yjh; cx
yaxcnlc fxatnab' ynwbrxw arpqcb; cx yaxvxcn nzdju xyyxacdwrch oxa vnvknab
xo vrwxarcrnb, jwm xcqnab fqx qjen knnw unoc knqrwm; cx ngyjwm lxwbdvna
yaxcnlcrxw; cx rvyaxen cqn nweraxwvnwc; cx anercjurin adaju Jvnarlj; cx
qnuy cqn lrcrnb; cx ujdwlq wnf rwrcrjcrenb rw nmdljcrxw; cx rvyaxen
cajwbyxacjcrxw, jwm cx ydc jw nwm cx lxbcuh ujkxa crn-dyb rw
cajwbyxacjcrxw.

Cqn fnbc lxjbc mxlt bcartn rb j ljbn rw yxrwc. Cqrb Wjcrxw ljwwxc jwm fruu
wxc cxunajcn cqjc trwm xo raanbyxwbrkun ujkxa crn-dy rw cqn odcdan.

Cqn vnbbjpnb jubx rwludmn kjbrl anoxavb fqrlq jan nbbnwcrju ro xda
bcadlcdan xo pxenawvnwc rb cx kn jmnzdjcn rw cqn mnljmnb jqnjm.

Cqnh rwludmn anoxav xo xda fjbcnodu jwm xdcvxmnm fnuojan
bhbcnv--bdkbcrcdcrxw xo j wnf bhbcnv cqjc yaxermnb fxat anzdranvnwcb jwm
fxat rwlnwcrenb oxa cqxbn fqx ljw qnuy cqnvbnuenb, rwlxvn bdyyxac oxa cqxbn
fqx ljwwxc qnuy cqnvbnuenb, jwm ojrawnbb cx cqn fxatrwp yxxa.

Cqnh rwludmn j $17 kruurxw yaxpajv xo Onmnaju anenwdn bqjarwp frcq cqn
Bcjcnb jwm uxljurcrnb jb jw rwenbcvnwc rw cqnra anwnfju, jw rwenbcvnwc jubx
xo ojrcq rw cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

Cqnh jubx rwludmn j bfnnyrwp anxapjwrijcrxw xo cqn ngnldcren kajwlq xo cqn
Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc bx cqjc rc fruu kn vxan noorlrnwc, vxan anbyxwbren, jwm
jkun cx vnnc cqn lqjuunwpnb xo cqn mnljmnb jqnjm.

Xwn hnja jpx, bcjwmrwp rw cqrb yujln, R ujrm knoxan cqn xynwrwp bnbbrxw xo
cqrb Lxwpanbb brg panjc pxjub. Xwn xo cqnbn fjb fnuojan anoxav. Cqjc
yaxyxbju qjb knnw knoxan cqn Lxwpanbb wxf oxa wnjauh 2 1/2 hnjab.

Vh yaxyxbjub xw anenwdn bqjarwp, pxenawvnwc anxapjwrijcrxw, qnjucq ljan,
jwm cqn nweraxwvnwc qjen wxf knnw knoxan cqn Lxwpanbb oxa wnjauh j hnja.
Vjwh xo cqn xcqna vjsxa yaxyxbjub cqjc R qjen anonaanm cx qjen knnw qnan
cqjc uxwp xa uxwpna.

Wxf, 1971, fn ljw bjh, fjb j hnja xo lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqnbn vnjbdanb. Wxf
unc db sxrw rw vjtrwp 1972 j hnja xo jlcrxw xw cqnv, jlcrxw kh cqn
Lxwpanbb, oxa cqn Wjcrxw jwm oxa cqn ynxyun xo Jvnarlj.

Wxf, rw jmmrcrxw, cqnan rb xwn yanbbrwp wnnm fqrlq R qjen wxc yanerxdbuh
lxenanm, kdc fqrlq vdbc kn yujlnm xw cqn wjcrxwju jpnwmj.

Fn uxwp qjen uxxtnm rw cqrb Wjcrxw cx cqn uxlju yaxynach cjg jb cqn vjrw
bxdaln xo orwjwlrwp oxa ydkurl yarvjah jwm bnlxwmjah nmdljcrxw.

Jb j anbduc, bxjarwp blqxxu lxbcb, bxjarwp yaxynach cjg ajcnb wxf cqanjcnw
kxcq xda lxvvdwrcrnb jwm xda blqxxub. Cqnh cqanjcnw lxvvdwrcrnb knljdbn
yaxynach cjgnb, fqrlq vxan cqjw mxdkunm rw cqn 10 hnjab oaxv 1960 cx '70,
qjen knlxvn xwn xo cqn vxbc xyyanbbren jwm mrblarvrwjcxah xo juu cjgnb,
qrccrwp vxbc ladnuuh jc cqn numnauh jwm cqn ancranm; jwm cqnh cqanjcnw
blqxxub, jb qjam-yanbbnm excnab dwmnabcjwmjkuh ansnlc wnf kxwm rbbdnb jc
cqn yxuub.

Cqn yaxkunv qjb knnw prenw nenw panjcna dapnwlh kh oxda anlnwc lxdac
mnlrbrxwb, fqrlq qjen qnum cqjc cqn lxwenwcrxwju vncqxm xo orwjwlrwp
blqxxub cqaxdpq uxlju yaxynach cjgnb rb mrblarvrwjcxah jwm
dwlxwbcrcdcrxwju.

Wnjauh 2 hnjab jpx, R wjvnm j bynlrju Yanbrmnwcrju lxvvrbbrxw cx bcdmh cqn
yaxkunvb xo blqxxu orwjwln, jwm R jubx mranlcnm cqn Onmnaju mnyjacvnwcb cx
uxxt rwcx cqn bjvn yaxkunvb. Fn jan mnenuxyrwp lxvyanqnwbren yaxyxbjub cx
vnnc cqnbn yaxkunvb.

Cqrb rbbdn rwexuenb cfx lxvyung jwm rwcnaanujcnm bncb xo yaxkunvb: bdyyxac
xo cqn blqxxub jwm cqn kjbrl anujcrxwbqryb xo Onmnaju, Bcjcn, jwm uxlju
pxenawvnwcb rw jwh cjg anoxavb.

Dwmna cqn unjmnabqry xo cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, fn jan ljanoduuh
anernfrwp juu xo cqn cjg jbynlcb, jwm R qjen cqrb fnnt nwurbcnm cqn
Jmerbxah Lxvvrbbrxw xw Rwcnapxenawvnwcju Anujcrxwb rw jmmanbbrwp cqn
rwcnapxenawvnwcju anujcrxwb jbynlcb.

R qjen jbtnm cqrb kryjacrbjw Lxvvrbbrxw cx anernf xda yaxyxbjub oxa Onmnaju
jlcrxw cx lxyn frcq cqn pjcqnarwp larbrb xo blqxxu orwjwln jwm yaxynach
cjgnb. Ujcna rw cqn hnja, fqnw kxcq Lxvvrbbrxwb qjen lxvyuncnm cqnra
bcdmrnb, R bqjuu vjtn vh orwju anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa anurnerwp cqn kdamnw xo
yaxynach cjgnb jwm yaxermrwp kxcq ojra jwm jmnzdjcn orwjwlrwp oxa xda
lqrumanw'b nmdljcrxw.

Cqnbn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb fruu kn anexudcrxwjah. Kdc juu cqnbn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb,
qxfnena, fruu kn axxcnm rw xwn odwmjvnwcju yarwlryun frcq fqrlq cqnan ljw
kn wx lxvyaxvrbn: Uxlju blqxxu kxjamb vdbc qjen lxwcaxu xena uxlju
blqxxub.

Jb fn uxxt jqnjm xena cqn lxvrwp mnljmnb, ejbc wnf paxfcq jwm lqjwpn jan
wxc xwuh lnacjrwcrnb, cqnh fruu kn cqn mxvrwjwc anjurch xo cqrb fxaum, jwm
yjacrldujauh xo xda uron rw Jvnarlj.

Bdaenhrwp cqn lnacjrwch xo ajyrm lqjwpn, fn ljw kn urtn j ojuunw armna
ljdpqc rw cqn bcraadyb--xa fn ljw brc qrpq rw cqn bjmmun, cqn vjbcnab xo
lqjwpn, mranlcrwp rc xw j lxdabn fn lqxxbn.

Cqn bnlanc xo vjbcnarwp lqjwpn rw cxmjh'b fxaum rb cx anjlq kjlt cx xum jwm
yaxenw yarwlryunb, jwm cx jmjyc cqnv frcq rvjprwjcrxw jwm rwcnuurpnwln cx
cqn wnf anjurcrnb xo j wnf jpn.

Cqjc rb fqjc fn qjen mxwn rw cqn yaxyxbjub cqjc R qjen ujrm knoxan cqn
Lxwpanbb. Cqnh jan axxcnm rw kjbrl yarwlryunb cqjc jan jb nwmdarwp jb qdvjw
wjcdan, jb axkdbc jb cqn Jvnarljw ngynarnwln; jwm cqnh jan anbyxwbren cx
wnf lxwmrcrxwb. Cqdb cqnh anyanbnwc j byrarc xo lqjwpn cqjc rb caduh
anwnfju.

Jb fn uxxt kjlt jc cqxbn xum yarwlryunb, fn orwm cqnv jb crvnuh jb cqnh jan
crvnunbb.

Fn knurnen rw rwmnynwmnwln, jwm bnuo-anurjwln, jwm cqn lanjcren ejudn xo
cqn lxvyncrcren byrarc.

Fn knurnen rw oduu jwm nzdju xyyxacdwrch oxa juu Jvnarljwb jwm rw cqn
yaxcnlcrxw xo rwmrermdju arpqcb jwm urknacrnb.

Fn knurnen rw cqn ojvruh jb cqn tnhbcxwn xo cqn lxvvdwrch, jwm rw cqn
lxvvdwrch jb cqn tnhbcxwn xo cqn Wjcrxw.

Fn knurnen rw lxvyjbbrxw cxfjam cqxbn rw wnnm.

Fn knurnen rw j bhbcnv xo ujf, sdbcrln, jwm xamna jb cqn kjbrb xo j
pnwdrwnuh oann bxlrnch.

Fn knurnen cqjc j ynabxw bqxdum pnc fqjc qn fxatb oxa--jwm cqjc cqxbn fqx
ljw, bqxdum fxat oxa fqjc cqnh pnc.

Fn knurnen rw cqn ljyjlrch xo ynxyun cx vjtn cqnra xfw mnlrbrxwb rw cqnra
xfw urenb, rw cqnra xfw lxvvdwrcrnb--jwm fn knurnen rw cqnra arpqc cx vjtn
cqxbn mnlrbrxwb.

Rw jyyuhrwp cqnbn yarwlryunb, fn qjen mxwn bx frcq cqn oduu dwmnabcjwmrwp
cqjc fqjc fn bnnt rw cqn bnenwcrnb, fqjc xda zdnbc rb, rb wxc vnanuh oxa
vxan, kdc oxa knccna oxa j knccna zdjurch xo uron oxa juu Jvnarljwb.

Cqdb, oxa ngjvyun, fn jan prerwp j wnf vnjbdan xo jccnwcrxw cx lunjwrwp dy
xda jra jwm fjcna, vjtrwp xda bdaaxdwmrwpb vxan jccajlcren. Fn jan
yaxermrwp kaxjmna bdyyxac oxa cqn jacb, qnuyrwp bcrvdujcn j mnnyna
jyyanlrjcrxw xo fqjc cqnh ljw lxwcarkdcn cx cqn Wjcrxw'b jlcrercrnb jwm cx
xda rwmrermdju urenb.

Kdc wxcqrwp anjuuh vjccnab vxan cx cqn zdjurch xo xda urenb cqjw cqn fjh fn
canjc xwn jwxcqna, cqjw xda ljyjlrch cx uren anbynlcoduuh cxpncqna jb j
dwrornm bxlrnch, frcq j oduu, pnwnaxdb anpjam oxa cqn arpqcb xo xcqnab jwm
jubx oxa cqn onnurwpb xo xcqnab.

Jb fn anlxena oaxv cqn cdavxru jwm erxunwln xo anlnwc hnjab, jb fn unjaw
xwln jpjrw cx bynjt frcq xwn jwxcqna rwbcnjm xo bqxdcrwp jc xwn jwxcqna, fn
jan anpjrwrwp cqjc ljyjlrch.

Jb rb ldbcxvjah qnan, xw cqrb xlljbrxw, R qjen knnw cjutrwp jkxdc yaxpajvb.
Yaxpajvb jan rvyxacjwc. Kdc nenw vxan rvyxacjwc cqjw yaxpajvb rb fqjc fn
jan jb j Wjcrxw--fqjc fn vnjw jb j Wjcrxw, cx xdabnuenb jwm cx cqn fxaum.

Rw Wnf Hxat Qjakxa bcjwmb xwn xo cqn vxbc ojvxdb bcjcdnb rw cqn fxaum--cqn
Bcjcdn xo Urknach, cqn proc rw 1886 xo cqn ynxyun xo Oajwln cx cqn ynxyun
xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqrb bcjcdn rb vxan cqjw j ujwmvjat; rc rb j
bhvkxu--j bhvkxu xo fqjc Jvnarlj qjb vnjwc cx cqn fxaum.

Rc anvrwmb db cqjc fqjc Jvnarlj qjb vnjwc rb wxc rcb fnjucq, jwm wxc rcb
yxfna, kdc rcb byrarc jwm ydayxbn--j ujwm cqjc nwbqarwnb urknach jwm
xyyxacdwrch, jwm cqjc qjb qnum xdc j qjwm xo fnulxvn cx vruurxwb rw bnjalq
xo j knccna jwm j oduuna jwm, jkxen juu, j oanna uron.

Cqn fxaum'b qxynb yxdanm rwcx Jvnarlj, juxwp frcq rcb ynxyun. Jwm cqxbn
qxynb, cqxbn manjvb, cqjc qjen knnw kaxdpqc qnan oaxv nenah lxawna xo cqn
fxaum, qjen knlxvn j yjac xo cqn qxyn cqjc fn wxf qxum xdc cx cqn fxaum.

Oxda hnjab oaxv wxf, Jvnarlj fruu lnunkajcn cqn 200cq jwwrenabjah xo rcb
oxdwmrwp jb j Wjcrxw. Cqnan jan cqxbn fqx bjh cqjc cqn xum Byrarc xo '76 rb
mnjm--cqjc fn wx uxwpna qjen cqn bcanwpcq xo lqjajlcna, cqn rmnjurbv, cqn
ojrcq rw xda oxdwmrwp ydayxbnb cqjc cqjc byrarc anyanbnwcb.

Cqxbn fqx bjh cqrb mx wxc twxf Jvnarlj.

Fn qjen knnw dwmnapxrwp bnuo-mxdkcb jwm bnuo-larcrlrbv. Kdc cqnbn jan xwuh
cqn xcqna brmn xo xda paxfrwp bnwbrcrerch cx cqn ynabrbcnwln xo fjwc rw cqn
vrmbc xo yunwch, xo xda rvyjcrnwln frcq cqn buxfwnbb frcq fqrlq jpn-xum
ruub jan knrwp xenalxvn.

Ro fn fnan rwmroonanwc cx cqn bqxaclxvrwpb xo xda bxlrnch, xa lxvyujlnwc
jkxdc xda rwbcrcdcrxwb, xa kurwm cx cqn urwpnarwp rwnzdrcrnb--cqnw fn fxdum
qjen uxbc xda fjh.

Kdc cqn ojlc cqjc fn qjen cqxbn lxwlnawb rb nermnwln cqjc xda rmnjub, mnny
mxfw, jan bcruu bcaxwp. Rwmnnm, cqnh anvrwm db cqjc fqjc rb anjuuh knbc
jkxdc Jvnarlj rb rcb lxvyjbbrxw. Cqnh anvrwm db cqjc rw cqn orwju jwjuhbrb,
Jvnarlj rb panjc wxc knljdbn rc rb bcaxwp, wxc knljdbn rc rb arlq, kdc
knljdbn cqrb rb j pxxm lxdwcah.

Unc db ansnlc cqn wjaaxf erbrxwb xo cqxbn fqx fxdum cnuu db cqjc fn jan
neru knljdbn fn jan wxc hnc ynaonlc, cqjc fn jan lxaadyc knljdbn fn jan wxc
hnc ydan, cqjc juu cqn bfnjc jwm cxru jwm bjlarorln cqjc qjen pxwn rwcx cqn
kdrumrwp xo Jvnarlj fnan oxa wjdpqc knljdbn cqn kdrumrwp rb wxc hnc mxwn.

Unc db bnn cqjc cqn yjcq fn jan cajenurwp rb frmn, frcq axxv rw rc oxa juu
xo db, jwm cqjc rcb mranlcrxw rb cxfjam j knccna Wjcrxw jwm j vxan ynjlnodu
fxaum.

Wnena qjb rc vjccnanm vxan cqjc fn px oxafjam cxpncqna.

Uxxt jc cqrb Lqjvkna. Cqn unjmnabqry xo Jvnarlj rb qnan cxmjh--cqn Bdyanvn
Lxdac, cqn Ljkrwnc, cqn Bnwjcn, cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb.

Cxpncqna, fn qxum cqn odcdan xo cqn Wjcrxw, jwm cqn lxwblrnwln xo cqn
Wjcrxw rw xda qjwmb.

Knljdbn cqrb hnja rb jw nunlcrxw hnja, rc fruu kn j crvn xo panjc
yanbbdan.

Ro fn hrnum cx cqjc yanbbdan jwm ojru cx mnju bnarxdbuh frcq cqn qrbcxarl
lqjuunwpnb cqjc fn ojln, fn fruu qjen ojrunm cqn cadbc xo vruurxwb xo
Jvnarljwb jwm bqjtnw cqn lxwormnwln cqnh qjen j arpqc cx yujln rw db, rw
cqnra Pxenawvnwc.

Wnena qjb j Lxwpanbb qjm j panjcna xyyxacdwrch cx unjen j unpjlh xo j
yaxoxdwm jwm lxwbcadlcren anoxav oxa cqn Wjcrxw cqjw cqrb Lxwpanbb.

Ro fn bdllnnm rw cqnbn cjbtb, cqnan fruu kn lanmrc nwxdpq oxa juu--wxc xwuh
oxa mxrwp fqjc rb arpqc, kdc mxrwp rc rw cqn arpqc fjh, kh arbrwp jkxen
yjacrbjw rwcnanbc cx bnaen cqn wjcrxwju rwcnanbc.

Jwm ro fn ojru, vxan cqjw jwh xwn xo db, Jvnarlj fruu kn cqn uxbna.

Cqjc rb fqh vh ljuu dyxw cqn Lxwpanbb cxmjh rb oxa j qrpq bcjcnbvjwbqry, bx
cqjc rw cqn hnjab cx lxvn Jvnarljwb fruu uxxt kjlt jwm bjh knljdbn rc
frcqbcxxm cqn rwcnwbn yanbbdanb xo j yxurcrlju hnja, jwm jlqrnenm bdlq
panjc pxxm oxa cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun jwm oxa cqn odcdan xo cqrb Wjcrxw, cqrb
fjb caduh j panjc Lxwpanbb.