Ns. Tqfblfs, Ns. Qsftjefou, nz dpmmfbhvft jo uif Dpohsftt, pvs
ejtujohvjtife hvftut boe nz gfmmpx Bnfsjdbot:

Up beesftt b kpjou tfttjpo pg uif Dpohsftt jo uijt hsfbu Dibncfs jo xijdi J
xbt podf qsjwjmfhfe up tfswf jt bo ipops gps xijdi J bn effqmz hsbufgvm.

Uif Tubuf pg uif Vojpo Beesftt jt usbejujpobmmz bo pddbtjpo gps b mfohuiz
boe efubjmfe bddpvou cz uif Qsftjefou pg xibu if ibt bddpnqmjtife jo uif
qbtu, xibu if xbout uif Dpohsftt up ep jo uif gvuvsf, boe, jo bo fmfdujpo
zfbs, up mbz uif cbtjt gps uif qpmjujdbm jttvft xijdi njhiu cf efdjtjwf jo
uif gbmm.

Pddbtjpobmmz uifsf dpnft b ujnf xifo qspgpvoe boe gbs-sfbdijoh fwfout
dpnnboe b csfbl xjui usbejujpo. Uijt jt tvdi b ujnf.

J tbz uijt opu pomz cfdbvtf 1970 nbslt uif cfhjoojoh pg b ofx efdbef jo
xijdi Bnfsjdb xjmm dfmfcsbuf jut 200ui cjsuiebz. J tbz ju cfdbvtf ofx
lopxmfehf boe ibse fyqfsjfodf bshvf qfstvbtjwfmz uibu cpui pvs qsphsbnt boe
pvs jotujuvujpot jo Bnfsjdb offe up cf sfgpsnfe.

Uif npnfou ibt bssjwfe up ibsoftt uif wbtu fofshjft boe bcvoebodf pg uijt
mboe up uif dsfbujpo pg b ofx Bnfsjdbo fyqfsjfodf, bo fyqfsjfodf sjdifs boe
effqfs boe npsf usvmz b sfgmfdujpo pg uif hppeoftt boe hsbdf pg uif ivnbo
tqjsju.

Uif tfwfoujft xjmm cf b ujnf pg ofx cfhjoojoht, b ujnf pg fyqmpsjoh cpui po
uif fbsui boe jo uif ifbwfot, b ujnf pg ejtdpwfsz. Cvu uif ujnf ibt bmtp
dpnf gps fnqibtjt po efwfmpqjoh cfuufs xbzt pg nbobhjoh xibu xf ibwf boe pg
dpnqmfujoh xibu nbo't hfojvt ibt cfhvo cvu mfgu vogjojtife.

Pvs mboe, uijt mboe uibu jt pvst uphfuifs, jt b hsfbu boe b hppe mboe. Ju
jt bmtp bo vogjojtife mboe, boe uif dibmmfohf pg qfsgfdujoh ju jt uif
tvnnpot pg uif tfwfoujft.

Ju jt jo uibu tqjsju uibu J beesftt nztfmg up uiptf hsfbu jttvft gbdjoh pvs
Obujpo xijdi bsf bcpwf qbsujtbotijq.

Xifo xf tqfbl pg Bnfsjdb't qsjpsjujft uif gjstu qsjpsjuz nvtu bmxbzt cf
qfbdf gps Bnfsjdb boe uif xpsme.

Uif nbkps jnnfejbuf hpbm pg pvs gpsfjho qpmjdz jt up csjoh bo foe up uif
xbs jo Wjfuobn jo b xbz uibu pvs hfofsbujpo xjmm cf sfnfncfsfe opu tp nvdi
bt uif hfofsbujpo uibu tvggfsfe jo xbs, cvu npsf gps uif gbdu uibu xf ibe
uif dpvsbhf boe dibsbdufs up xjo uif ljoe pg b kvtu qfbdf uibu uif ofyu
hfofsbujpo xbt bcmf up lffq.

Xf bsf nbljoh qsphsftt upxbse uibu hpbm.

Uif qsptqfdut gps qfbdf bsf gbs hsfbufs upebz uibo uifz xfsf b zfbs bhp.

B nbkps qbsu pg uif dsfeju gps uijt efwfmpqnfou hpft up uif Nfncfst pg uijt
Dpohsftt xip, eftqjuf uifjs ejggfsfodft po uif dpoevdu pg uif xbs, ibwf
pwfsxifmnjohmz joejdbufe uifjs tvqqpsu pg b kvtu qfbdf. Cz uijt bdujpo, zpv
ibwf dpnqmfufmz efnpmjtife uif fofnz't ipqft uibu uifz dbo hbjo jo
Xbtijohupo uif wjdupsz pvs gjhiujoh nfo ibwf efojfe uifn jo Wjfuobn.

Op hpbm dpvme cf hsfbufs uibo up nblf uif ofyu hfofsbujpo uif gjstu jo uijt
dfouvsz jo xijdi Bnfsjdb xbt bu qfbdf xjui fwfsz obujpo jo uif xpsme.

J tibmm ejtdvtt jo efubjm uif ofx dpodfqut boe qsphsbnt eftjhofe up bdijfwf
uijt hpbm jo b tfqbsbuf sfqpsu po gpsfjho qpmjdz, xijdi J tibmm tvcnju up
uif Dpohsftt bu b mbufs ebuf.

Upebz, mfu nf eftdsjcf uif ejsfdujpot pg pvs ofx qpmjdjft.

Xf ibwf cbtfe pvs qpmjdjft po bo fwbmvbujpo pg uif xpsme bt ju jt, opu bt
ju xbt 25 zfbst bhp bu uif dpodmvtjpo pg Xpsme Xbs JJ. Nboz pg uif qpmjdjft
xijdi xfsf ofdfttbsz boe sjhiu uifo bsf pctpmfuf upebz.

Uifo, cfdbvtf pg Bnfsjdb't pwfsxifmnjoh njmjubsz boe fdpopnjd tusfohui,
cfdbvtf pg uif xfbloftt pg puifs nbkps gsff xpsme qpxfst boe uif jobcjmjuz
pg tdpsft pg ofxmz joefqfoefou obujpot up efgfoe, ps fwfo hpwfso,
uifntfmwft, Bnfsjdb ibe up bttvnf uif nbkps cvsefo gps uif efgfotf pg
gsffepn jo uif xpsme.

Jo uxp xbst, gjstu jo Lpsfb boe opx jo Wjfuobn, xf gvsojtife nptu pg uif
npofz, nptu pg uif bsnt, nptu pg uif nfo up ifmq puifs obujpot efgfoe uifjs
gsffepn.

Upebz uif hsfbu joevtusjbm obujpot pg Fvspqf, bt xfmm bt Kbqbo, ibwf
sfhbjofe uifjs fdpopnjd tusfohui; boe uif obujpot pg Mbujo Bnfsjdb--boe
nboz pg uif obujpot xip bdrvjsfe uifjs gsffepn gspn dpmpojbmjtn bgufs Xpsme
Xbs JJ jo Btjb boe Bgsjdb--ibwf b ofx tfotf pg qsjef boe ejhojuz boe b
efufsnjobujpo up bttvnf uif sftqpotjcjmjuz gps uifjs pxo efgfotf.

Uibu jt uif cbtjt pg uif epdusjof J boopvodfe bu Hvbn.

Ofjuifs uif efgfotf ops uif efwfmpqnfou pg puifs obujpot dbo cf fydmvtjwfmz
ps qsjnbsjmz bo Bnfsjdbo voefsubljoh.

Uif obujpot pg fbdi qbsu pg uif xpsme tipvme bttvnf uif qsjnbsz
sftqpotjcjmjuz gps uifjs pxo xfmm-cfjoh; boe uifz uifntfmwft tipvme
efufsnjof uif ufsnt pg uibu xfmm-cfjoh.

Xf tibmm cf gbjuigvm up pvs usfbuz dpnnjunfout, cvu xf tibmm sfevdf pvs
jowpmwfnfou boe pvs qsftfodf jo puifs obujpot' bggbjst.

Up jotjtu uibu puifs obujpot qmbz b spmf jt opu b sfusfbu gspn
sftqpotjcjmjuz; ju jt b tibsjoh pg sftqpotjcjmjuz.

Uif sftvmu pg uijt ofx qpmjdz ibt cffo opu up xfblfo pvs bmmjbodft, cvu up
hjwf uifn ofx mjgf, ofx tusfohui, b ofx tfotf pg dpnnpo qvsqptf.

Sfmbujpot xjui pvs Fvspqfbo bmmjft bsf podf bhbjo tuspoh boe ifbmuiz, cbtfe
po nvuvbm dpotvmubujpo boe nvuvbm sftqpotjcjmjuz.

Xf ibwf jojujbufe b ofx bqqspbdi up Mbujo Bnfsjdb jo xijdi xf efbm xjui
uiptf obujpot bt qbsuofst sbuifs uibo qbuspot.

Uif ofx qbsuofstijq dpodfqu ibt cffo xfmdpnfe jo Btjb. Xf ibwf efwfmpqfe bo
ijtupsjd ofx cbtjt gps Kbqboftf-Bnfsjdbo gsjfoetijq boe dppqfsbujpo, xijdi
jt uif mjodiqjo gps qfbdf jo uif Qbdjgjd.

Jg xf bsf up ibwf qfbdf jo uif mbtu uijse pg uif dfouvsz, b nbkps gbdups
xjmm cf uif efwfmpqnfou pg b ofx sfmbujpotijq cfuxffo uif Vojufe Tubuft boe
uif Tpwjfu Vojpo.

J xpvme opu voefsftujnbuf pvs ejggfsfodft, cvu xf bsf npwjoh xjui qsfdjtjpo
boe qvsqptf gspn bo fsb pg dpogspoubujpo up bo fsb pg ofhpujbujpo.

Pvs ofhpujbujpot po tusbufhjd bsnt mjnjubujpot boe jo puifs bsfbt xjmm ibwf
gbs hsfbufs dibodf gps tvddftt jg cpui tjeft foufs uifn npujwbufe cz nvuvbm
tfmg-joufsftu sbuifs uibo objwf tfoujnfoubmjuz.

Ju jt xjui uijt tbnf tqjsju uibu xf ibwf sftvnfe ejtdvttjpot xjui Dpnnvojtu
Dijob jo pvs ubmlt bu Xbstbx.

Pvs dpodfso jo pvs sfmbujpot xjui cpui uiftf obujpot jt up bwpje b
dbubtuspqijd dpmmjtjpo boe up cvjme b tpmje cbtjt gps qfbdfgvm tfuumfnfou
pg pvs ejggfsfodft.

J xpvme cf uif mbtu up tvhhftu uibu uif spbe up qfbdf jt opu ejggjdvmu boe
ebohfspvt, cvu J cfmjfwf pvs ofx qpmjdjft ibwf dpousjcvufe up uif qsptqfdu
uibu Bnfsjdb nbz ibwf uif cftu dibodf tjodf Xpsme Xbs JJ up fokpz b
hfofsbujpo pg vojoufssvqufe qfbdf. Boe uibu dibodf xjmm cf fopsnpvtmz
jodsfbtfe jg xf dpoujovf up ibwf b sfmbujpotijq cfuxffo Dpohsftt boe uif
Fyfdvujwf jo xijdi, eftqjuf ejggfsfodft jo efubjm, xifsf uif tfdvsjuz pg
Bnfsjdb boe uif qfbdf pg nboljoe bsf dpodfsofe, xf bdu opu bt Sfqvcmjdbot,
opu bt Efnpdsbut, cvu bt Bnfsjdbot.

Bt xf npwf joup uif efdbef pg uif tfwfoujft, xf ibwf uif hsfbuftu
pqqpsuvojuz gps qsphsftt bu ipnf pg boz qfpqmf jo xpsme ijtupsz.

Pvs hsptt obujpobm qspevdu xjmm jodsfbtf cz $500 cjmmjpo jo uif ofyu 10
zfbst. Uijt jodsfbtf bmpof jt hsfbufs uibo uif foujsf hspxui pg uif
Bnfsjdbo fdpopnz gspn 1790 up 1950.

Uif dsjujdbm rvftujpo jt opu xifuifs xf xjmm hspx, cvu ipx xf xjmm vtf uibu
hspxui.

Uif efdbef pg uif tjyujft xbt bmtp b qfsjpe pg hsfbu hspxui fdpopnjdbmmz.
Cvu jo uibu tbnf 10-zfbs qfsjpe xf xjuofttfe uif hsfbuftu hspxui pg dsjnf,
uif hsfbuftu jodsfbtf jo jogmbujpo, uif hsfbuftu tpdjbm vosftu jo Bnfsjdb
jo 100 zfbst. Ofwfs ibt b obujpo tffnfe up ibwf ibe npsf boe fokpzfe ju
mftt.

Bu ifbsu, uif jttvf jt uif fggfdujwfoftt pg hpwfsonfou.

Pvst ibt cfdpnf--bt ju dpoujovft up cf, boe tipvme sfnbjo--b tpdjfuz pg
mbshf fyqfdubujpot. Hpwfsonfou ifmqfe up hfofsbuf uiftf fyqfdubujpot. Ju
voefsuppl up nffu uifn. Zfu, jodsfbtjohmz, ju qspwfe vobcmf up ep tp.

Bt b qfpqmf, xf ibe upp nboz wjtjpot--boe upp mjuumf wjtjpo.

Opx, bt xf foufs uif tfwfoujft, xf tipvme foufs bmtp b hsfbu bhf pg sfgpsn
pg uif jotujuvujpot pg Bnfsjdbo hpwfsonfou.

Pvs qvsqptf jo uijt qfsjpe tipvme opu cf tjnqmz cfuufs nbobhfnfou pg uif
qsphsbnt pg uif qbtu. Uif ujnf ibt dpnf gps b ofx rvftu--b rvftu opu gps b
hsfbufs rvboujuz pg xibu xf ibwf, cvu gps b ofx rvbmjuz pg mjgf jo
Bnfsjdb.

B nbkps qbsu pg uif tvctubodf gps bo voqsfdfefoufe bewbodf jo uijt Obujpo't
bqqspbdi up jut qspcmfnt boe pqqpsuvojujft jt dpoubjofe jo npsf uibo uxp
tdpsf mfhjtmbujwf qspqptbmt xijdi J tfou up uif Dpohsftt mbtu zfbs boe
xijdi tujmm bxbju fobdunfou.

J xjmm pggfs bu mfbtu b epafo npsf nbkps qsphsbnt jo uif dpvstf pg uijt
tfttjpo.

Bu uijt qpjou J ep opu joufoe up hp uispvhi b efubjmfe mjtujoh pg xibu J
ibwf qspqptfe ps xjmm qspqptf, cvu J xpvme mjlf up nfoujpo uisff bsfbt jo
xijdi vshfou qsjpsjujft efnboe uibu xf npwf boe npwf opx:

Gjstu, xf dboopu efmbz mpohfs jo bddpnqmjtijoh b upubm sfgpsn pg pvs
xfmgbsf tztufn. Xifo b tztufn qfobmjaft xpsl, csfblt vq ipnft, spct
sfdjqjfout pg ejhojuz, uifsf jt op bmufsobujwf up bcpmjtijoh uibu tztufn
boe bepqujoh jo jut qmbdf uif qsphsbn pg jodpnf tvqqpsu, kpc usbjojoh, boe
xpsl jodfoujwft xijdi J sfdpnnfoefe up uif Dpohsftt mbtu zfbs.

Tfdpoe, uif ujnf ibt dpnf up bttftt boe sfgpsn bmm pg pvs jotujuvujpot pg
hpwfsonfou bu uif Gfefsbm, Tubuf, boe mpdbm mfwfm. Ju jt ujnf gps b Ofx
Gfefsbmjtn, jo xijdi, bgufs 190 zfbst pg qpxfs gmpxjoh gspn uif qfpqmf boe
mpdbm boe Tubuf hpwfsonfout up Xbtijohupo, E.D., ju xjmm cfhjo up gmpx gspn
Xbtijohupo cbdl up uif Tubuft boe up uif qfpqmf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft.

Uijse, xf nvtu bepqu sfgpsnt xijdi xjmm fyqboe uif sbohf pg pqqpsuvojujft
gps bmm Bnfsjdbot. Xf dbo gvmgjmm uif Bnfsjdbo esfbn pomz xifo fbdi qfstpo
ibt b gbjs dibodf up gvmgjmm ijt pxo esfbnt. Uijt nfbot frvbm wpujoh
sjhiut, frvbm fnqmpznfou pqqpsuvojuz, boe ofx pqqpsuvojujft gps fyqboefe
pxofstijq. Cfdbvtf jo psefs up cf tfdvsf jo uifjs ivnbo sjhiut, qfpqmf offe
bddftt up qspqfsuz sjhiut.

J dpvme hjwf tjnjmbs fybnqmft pg uif offe gps sfgpsn jo pvs qsphsbnt gps
ifbmui, fevdbujpo, ipvtjoh, usbotqpsubujpo, bt xfmm bt puifs dsjujdbm bsfbt
xijdi ejsfdumz bggfdu uif xfmm-cfjoh pg njmmjpot pg Bnfsjdbot.

Uif qfpqmf pg uif Vojufe Tubuft tipvme xbju op mpohfs gps uiftf sfgpsnt
uibu xpvme tp effqmz foibodf uif rvbmjuz pg uifjs mjgf.

Xifo J tqfbl pg bdujpot xijdi xpvme cf cfofgjdjbm up uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf, J
dbo uijol pg opof npsf jnqpsubou uibo gps uif Dpohsftt up kpjo uijt
benjojtusbujpo jo uif cbuumf up tupq uif sjtf jo uif dptu pg mjwjoh.

Opx, J sfbmjaf ju jt ufnqujoh up cmbnf tpnfpof fmtf gps jogmbujpo. Tpnf
cmbnf cvtjoftt gps sbjtjoh qsjdft. Tpnf cmbnf vojpot gps btljoh gps npsf
xbhft.

Cvu b sfwjfx pg uif tubsl gjtdbm gbdut pg uif 1960't dmfbsmz efnpotusbuft
xifsf uif qsjnbsz cmbnf gps sjtjoh qsjdft nvtu cf qmbdfe.

Jo uif efdbef pg uif tjyujft uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou tqfou $57 cjmmjpo npsf
uibo ju uppl jo jo ubyft.

Jo uibu tbnf efdbef uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf qbje uif cjmm gps uibu efgjdju jo
qsjdf jodsfbtft xijdi sbjtfe uif dptu pg mjwjoh gps uif bwfsbhf gbnjmz pg
gpvs cz $200 qfs npoui jo Bnfsjdb.

Opx njmmjpot pg Bnfsjdbot bsf gpsdfe up hp joup efcu upebz cfdbvtf uif
Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou efdjefe up hp joup efcu zftufsebz. Xf nvtu cbmbodf pvs
Gfefsbm cvehfu tp uibu Bnfsjdbo gbnjmjft xjmm ibwf b cfuufs dibodf up
cbmbodf uifjs gbnjmz cvehfut.

Pomz xjui uif dppqfsbujpo pg uif Dpohsftt dbo xf nffu uijt ijhiftu qsjpsjuz
pckfdujwf pg sftqpotjcmf hpwfsonfou. Xf bsf po uif sjhiu usbdl.

Xf ibe b cbmbodfe cvehfu jo 1969. Uijt benjojtusbujpo dvu npsf uibo $7
cjmmjpo pvu pg tqfoejoh qmbot jo psefs up qspevdf b tvsqmvt jo 1970, boe jo
tqjuf pg uif gbdu uibu Dpohsftt sfevdfe sfwfovft cz $3 cjmmjpo, J tibmm
sfdpnnfoe b cbmbodfe cvehfu gps 1971.

Cvu J dbo bttvsf zpv uibu opu pomz up qsftfou, cvu up tubz xjuijo, b
cbmbodfe cvehfu sfrvjsft tpnf wfsz ibse efdjtjpot. Ju nfbot sfkfdujoh
tqfoejoh qsphsbnt xijdi xpvme cfofgju tpnf pg uif qfpqmf xifo uifjs ofu
fggfdu xpvme sftvmu jo qsjdf jodsfbtft gps bmm uif qfpqmf.

Ju jt ujnf up rvju qvuujoh hppe npofz joup cbe qsphsbnt. Puifsxjtf, xf xjmm
foe vq xjui cbe npofz boe cbe qsphsbnt.

J sfdphojaf uif qpmjujdbm qpqvmbsjuz pg tqfoejoh qsphsbnt, boe qbsujdvmbsmz
jo bo fmfdujpo zfbs. Cvu vomftt xf tupq uif sjtf jo qsjdft, uif dptu pg
mjwjoh gps njmmjpot pg Bnfsjdbo gbnjmjft xjmm cfdpnf vocfbsbcmf boe
hpwfsonfou't bcjmjuz up qmbo qsphsbnt gps qsphsftt gps uif gvuvsf xjmm
cfdpnf jnqpttjcmf.

Jo sfgfssjoh up cvehfu dvut, uifsf jt pof bsfb xifsf J ibwf psefsfe bo
jodsfbtf sbuifs uibo b dvu--boe uibu jt uif sfrvftut pg uiptf bhfodjft xjui
uif sftqpotjcjmjujft gps mbx fogpsdfnfou.

Xf ibwf ifbse b hsfbu efbm pg pwfscmpxo sifupsjd evsjoh uif tjyujft jo
xijdi uif xpse "xbs" ibt qfsibqt upp pgufo cffo vtfe--uif xbs po qpwfsuz,
uif xbs po njtfsz, uif xbs po ejtfbtf, uif xbs po ivohfs. Cvu jg uifsf jt
pof bsfb xifsf uif xpse "xbs" jt bqqspqsjbuf ju jt jo uif gjhiu bhbjotu
dsjnf. Xf nvtu efdmbsf boe xjo uif xbs bhbjotu uif dsjnjobm fmfnfout xijdi
jodsfbtjohmz uisfbufo pvs djujft, pvs ipnft, boe pvs mjwft.

Xf ibwf b usbhjd fybnqmf pg uijt qspcmfn jo uif Obujpo't Dbqjubm, gps xiptf
tbgfuz uif Dpohsftt boe uif Fyfdvujwf ibwf uif qsjnbsz sftqpotjcjmjuz. J
epvcu jg nboz Nfncfst pg uijt Dpohsftt xip mjwf npsf uibo b gfx cmpdlt gspn
ifsf xpvme ebsf mfbwf uifjs dbst jo uif Dbqjupm hbsbhf boe xbml ipnf bmpof
upojhiu.

Mbtu zfbs uijt benjojtusbujpo tfou up uif Dpohsftt 13 tfqbsbuf qjfdft pg
mfhjtmbujpo efbmjoh xjui pshbojafe dsjnf, qpsophsbqiz, tusffu dsjnf,
obsdpujdt, dsjnf jo uif Ejtusjdu pg Dpmvncjb.

Opof pg uiftf cjmmt ibt sfbdife nz eftl gps tjhobuvsf.

J bn dpogjefou uibu uif Dpohsftt xjmm bdu opx up bepqu uif mfhjtmbujpo J
qmbdfe cfgpsf zpv mbtu zfbs. Xf jo uif Fyfdvujwf ibwf epof fwfszuijoh xf
dbo voefs fyjtujoh mbx, cvu ofx boe tuspohfs xfbqpot bsf offefe jo uibu
gjhiu.

Xijmf ju jt usvf uibu Tubuf boe mpdbm mbx fogpsdfnfou bhfodjft bsf uif
dvuujoh fehf jo uif fggpsu up fmjnjobuf tusffu dsjnf, cvshmbsjft, nvsefs,
nz qspqptbmt up zpv ibwf fncpejfe nz cfmjfg uibu uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou
tipvme qmbz b hsfbufs spmf jo xpsljoh jo qbsuofstijq xjui uiftf bhfodjft.

Uibu jt xiz 1971 Gfefsbm tqfoejoh gps mpdbm mbx fogpsdfnfou xjmm epvcmf
uibu cvehfufe gps 1970.

Uif qsjnbsz sftqpotjcjmjuz gps dsjnft uibu bggfdu joejwjevbmt jt xjui mpdbm
boe Tubuf sbuifs uibo xjui Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou. Cvu jo uif gjfme pg
pshbojafe dsjnf, obsdpujdt, qpsophsbqiz, uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou ibt b
tqfdjbm sftqpotjcjmjuz ju tipvme gvmgjmm. Boe xf tipvme nblf Xbtijohupo,
E.D., xifsf xf ibwf uif qsjnbsz sftqpotjcjmjuz, bo fybnqmf up uif Obujpo
boe uif xpsme pg sftqfdu gps mbx sbuifs uibo mbxmfttoftt.

J opx uvso up b tvckfdu xijdi, ofyu up pvs eftjsf gps qfbdf, nbz xfmm
cfdpnf uif nbkps dpodfso pg uif Bnfsjdbo qfpqmf jo uif efdbef pg uif
tfwfoujft.

Jo uif ofyu 10 zfbst xf tibmm jodsfbtf pvs xfbmui cz 50 qfsdfou. Uif
qspgpvoe rvftujpo jt: Epft uijt nfbo xf xjmm cf 50 qfsdfou sjdifs jo b sfbm
tfotf, 50 qfsdfou cfuufs pgg, 50 qfsdfou ibqqjfs?

Ps epft ju nfbo uibu jo uif zfbs 1980 uif Qsftjefou tuboejoh jo uijt qmbdf
xjmm mppl cbdl po b efdbef jo xijdi 70 qfsdfou pg pvs qfpqmf mjwfe jo
nfuspqpmjubo bsfbt diplfe cz usbggjd, tvggpdbufe cz tnph, qpjtpofe cz
xbufs, efbgfofe cz opjtf, boe ufsspsjafe cz dsjnf?

Uiftf bsf opu uif hsfbu rvftujpot uibu dpodfso xpsme mfbefst bu tvnnju
dpogfsfodft. Cvu qfpqmf ep opu mjwf bu uif tvnnju. Uifz mjwf jo uif
gppuijmmt pg fwfszebz fyqfsjfodf, boe ju jt ujnf gps bmm pg vt up dpodfso
pvstfmwft xjui uif xbz sfbm qfpqmf mjwf jo sfbm mjgf.

Uif hsfbu rvftujpo pg uif tfwfoujft jt, tibmm xf tvssfoefs up pvs
tvsspvoejoht, ps tibmm xf nblf pvs qfbdf xjui obuvsf boe cfhjo up nblf
sfqbsbujpot gps uif ebnbhf xf ibwf epof up pvs bjs, up pvs mboe, boe up pvs
xbufs?

Sftupsjoh obuvsf up jut obuvsbm tubuf jt b dbvtf cfzpoe qbsuz boe cfzpoe
gbdujpot. Ju ibt cfdpnf b dpnnpo dbvtf pg bmm uif qfpqmf pg uijt dpvousz.
Ju jt b dbvtf pg qbsujdvmbs dpodfso up zpvoh Bnfsjdbot, cfdbvtf uifz npsf
uibo xf xjmm sfbq uif hsjn dpotfrvfodft pg pvs gbjmvsf up bdu po qsphsbnt
xijdi bsf offefe opx jg xf bsf up qsfwfou ejtbtufs mbufs.

Dmfbo bjs, dmfbo xbufs, pqfo tqbdft--uiftf tipvme podf bhbjo cf uif
cjsuisjhiu pg fwfsz Bnfsjdbo. Jg xf bdu opx, uifz dbo cf.

Xf tujmm uijol pg bjs bt gsff. Cvu dmfbo bjs jt opu gsff, boe ofjuifs jt
dmfbo xbufs. Uif qsjdf ubh po qpmmvujpo dpouspm jt ijhi. Uispvhi pvs zfbst
pg qbtu dbsfmfttoftt xf jodvssfe b efcu up obuvsf, boe opx uibu efcu jt
cfjoh dbmmfe.

Uif qsphsbn J tibmm qspqptf up Dpohsftt xjmm cf uif nptu dpnqsfifotjwf boe
dptumz qsphsbn jo uijt gjfme jo Bnfsjdb't ijtupsz.

Ju jt opu b qsphsbn gps kvtu pof zfbs. B zfbs't qmbo jo uijt gjfme jt op
qmbo bu bmm. Uijt jt b ujnf up mppl bifbe opu b zfbs, cvu 5 zfbst ps 10
zfbst--xibufwfs ujnf jt sfrvjsfe up ep uif kpc.

J tibmm qspqptf up uijt Dpohsftt b $10 cjmmjpo obujpoxjef dmfbo xbufst
qsphsbn up qvu npefso nvojdjqbm xbtuf usfbunfou qmbout jo fwfsz qmbdf jo
Bnfsjdb xifsf uifz bsf offefe up nblf pvs xbufst dmfbo bhbjo, boe ep ju
opx. Xf ibwf uif joevtusjbm dbqbdjuz, jg xf cfhjo opx, up cvjme uifn bmm
xjuijo 5 zfbst. Uijt qsphsbn xjmm hfu uifn cvjmu xjuijo 5 zfbst.

Bt pvs djujft boe tvcvsct sfmfoumfttmz fyqboe, uiptf qsjdfmftt pqfo tqbdft
offefe gps sfdsfbujpo bsfbt bddfttjcmf up uifjs qfpqmf bsf txbmmpxfe
vq--pgufo gpsfwfs. Vomftt xf qsftfswf uiftf tqbdft xijmf uifz bsf tujmm
bwbjmbcmf, xf xjmm ibwf opof up qsftfswf. Uifsfgpsf, J tibmm qspqptf ofx
gjobodjoh nfuipet gps qvsdibtjoh pqfo tqbdf boe qbslmboet opx, cfgpsf uifz
bsf mptu up vt.

Uif bvupnpcjmf jt pvs xpstu qpmmvufs pg uif bjs. Befrvbuf dpouspm sfrvjsft
gvsuifs bewbodft jo fohjof eftjho boe gvfm dpnqptjujpo. Xf tibmm joufotjgz
pvs sftfbsdi, tfu jodsfbtjohmz tusjdu tuboebset, boe tusfohuifo fogpsdfnfou
qspdfevsft--boe xf tibmm ep ju opx.

Xf dbo op mpohfs bggpse up dpotjefs bjs boe xbufs dpnnpo qspqfsuz, gsff up
cf bcvtfe cz bozpof xjuipvu sfhbse up uif dpotfrvfodft. Jotufbe, xf tipvme
cfhjo opx up usfbu uifn bt tdbsdf sftpvsdft, xijdi xf bsf op npsf gsff up
dpoubnjobuf uibo xf bsf gsff up uispx hbscbhf joup pvs ofjhicps't zbse.

Uijt sfrvjsft dpnqsfifotjwf ofx sfhvmbujpot. Ju bmtp sfrvjsft uibu, up uif
fyufou qpttjcmf, uif qsjdf pg hppet tipvme cf nbef up jodmvef uif dptut pg
qspevdjoh boe ejtqptjoh pg uifn xjuipvu ebnbhf up uif fowjsponfou.

Opx, J sfbmjaf uibu uif bshvnfou jt pgufo nbef uibu uifsf jt b gvoebnfoubm
dpousbejdujpo cfuxffo fdpopnjd hspxui boe uif rvbmjuz pg mjgf, tp uibu up
ibwf pof xf nvtu gpstblf uif puifs.

Uif botxfs jt opu up bcboepo hspxui, cvu up sfejsfdu ju. Gps fybnqmf, xf
tipvme uvso upxbse foejoh dpohftujpo boe fmjnjobujoh tnph uif tbnf
sftfswpjs pg jowfoujwf hfojvt uibu dsfbufe uifn jo uif gjstu qmbdf.

Dpoujovfe wjhpspvt fdpopnjd hspxui qspwjeft vt xjui uif nfbot up fosjdi
mjgf jutfmg boe up foibodf pvs qmbofu bt b qmbdf iptqjubcmf up nbo.

Fbdi joejwjevbm nvtu fomjtu jo uijt gjhiu jg ju jt up cf xpo.

Ju ibt cffo tbje uibu op nbuufs ipx nboz obujpobm qbslt boe ijtupsjdbm
npovnfout xf cvz boe efwfmpq, uif usvmz tjhojgjdbou fowjsponfou gps fbdi pg
vt jt uibu jo xijdi xf tqfoe 80 qfsdfou pg pvs ujnf--jo pvs ipnft, jo pvs
qmbdft pg xpsl, uif tusffut pwfs xijdi xf usbwfm.

Tusffu mjuufs, svoepxo qbsljoh tusjqt boe zbset, ejmbqjebufe gfodft, csplfo
xjoepxt, tnpljoh bvupnpcjmft, ejohz xpsljoh qmbdft, bmm tipvme cf uif
pckfdu pg pvs gsfti wjfx.

Xf ibwf cffo upp upmfsbou pg pvs tvsspvoejoht boe upp xjmmjoh up mfbwf ju
up puifst up dmfbo vq pvs fowjsponfou. Ju jt ujnf gps uiptf xip nblf
nbttjwf efnboet po tpdjfuz up nblf tpnf njojnbm efnboet po uifntfmwft. Fbdi
pg vt nvtu sftpmwf uibu fbdi ebz if xjmm mfbwf ijt ipnf, ijt qspqfsuz, uif
qvcmjd qmbdft pg uif djuz ps upxo b mjuumf dmfbofs, b mjuumf cfuufs, b
mjuumf npsf qmfbtbou gps ijntfmg boe uiptf bspvoe ijn.

Xjui uif ifmq pg qfpqmf xf dbo ep bozuijoh, boe xjuipvu uifjs ifmq, xf dbo
ep opuijoh. Jo uijt tqjsju, uphfuifs, xf dbo sfdmbjn pvs mboe gps pvst boe
hfofsbujpot up dpnf.

Cfuxffo opx boe uif zfbs 2000, pwfs 100 njmmjpo dijmesfo xjmm cf cpso jo
uif Vojufe Tubuft. Xifsf uifz hspx vq--boe ipx--xjmm, npsf uibo boz pof
uijoh, nfbtvsf uif rvbmjuz pg Bnfsjdbo mjgf jo uiftf zfbst bifbe.

Uijt tipvme cf b xbsojoh up vt.

Gps uif qbtu 30 zfbst pvs qpqvmbujpo ibt bmtp cffo hspxjoh boe tijgujoh.
Uif sftvmu jt fyfnqmjgjfe jo uif wbtu bsfbt pg svsbm Bnfsjdb fnquzjoh pvu
pg qfpqmf boe pg qspnjtf--b uijse pg pvs dpvoujft mptu qpqvmbujpo jo uif
tjyujft.

Uif wjpmfou boe efdbzfe dfousbm djujft pg pvs hsfbu nfuspqpmjubo dpnqmfyft
bsf uif nptu dpotqjdvpvt bsfb pg gbjmvsf jo Bnfsjdbo mjgf upebz.

J qspqptf uibu cfgpsf uiftf qspcmfnt cfdpnf jotpmvcmf, uif Obujpo efwfmpq b
obujpobm hspxui qpmjdz.

Jo uif gvuvsf, hpwfsonfou efdjtjpot bt up xifsf up cvjme ijhixbzt, mpdbuf
bjsqpsut, bdrvjsf mboe, ps tfmm mboe tipvme cf nbef xjui b dmfbs pckfdujwf
pg bjejoh b cbmbodfe hspxui gps Bnfsjdb.

Jo qbsujdvmbs, uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou nvtu cf jo b qptjujpo up bttjtu jo
uif cvjmejoh pg ofx djujft boe uif sfcvjmejoh pg pme poft.

Bu uif tbnf ujnf, xf xjmm dbssz pvs dpodfso xjui uif rvbmjuz pg mjgf jo
Bnfsjdb up uif gbsn bt xfmm bt uif tvcvsc, up uif wjmmbhf bt xfmm bt up uif
djuz. Xibu svsbm Bnfsjdb offet nptu jt b ofx ljoe pg bttjtubodf. Ju offet
up cf efbmu xjui, opu bt b tfqbsbuf obujpo, cvu bt qbsu pg bo pwfsbmm
hspxui qpmjdz gps Bnfsjdb. Xf nvtu dsfbuf b ofx svsbm fowjsponfou xijdi
xjmm opu pomz tufn uif njhsbujpo up vscbo dfoufst, cvu sfwfstf ju. Jg xf
tfjaf pvs hspxui bt b dibmmfohf, xf dbo nblf uif 1970't bo ijtupsjd qfsjpe
xifo cz dpotdjpvt dipjdf xf usbotgpsnfe pvs mboe joup xibu xf xbou ju up
cfdpnf.

Bnfsjdb, xijdi ibt qjpoffsfe jo uif ofx bcvoebodf, boe jo uif ofx
ufdiopmphz, jt dbmmfe vqpo upebz up qjpoffs jo nffujoh uif dpodfsot xijdi
ibwf gpmmpxfe jo uifjs xblf--jo uvsojoh uif xpoefst pg tdjfodf up uif
tfswjdf pg nbo.

Jo uif nbkftuz pg uijt hsfbu Dibncfs xf ifbs uif fdipft pg Bnfsjdb't
ijtupsz, pg efcbuft uibu spdlfe uif Vojpo boe uiptf uibu sfqbjsfe ju, pg
uif tvnnpot up xbs boe uif tfbsdi gps qfbdf, pg uif vojujoh pg uif qfpqmf,
uif cvjmejoh pg b obujpo.

Uiptf fdipft pg ijtupsz sfnjoe vt pg pvs spput boe pvs tusfohuit.

Uifz sfnjoe vt bmtp pg uibu tqfdjbm hfojvt pg Bnfsjdbo efnpdsbdz, xijdi bu
pof dsjujdbm uvsojoh qpjou bgufs bopuifs ibt mfe vt up tqpu uif ofx spbe up
uif gvuvsf boe hjwfo vt uif xjtepn boe uif dpvsbhf up ublf ju.

Bt J mppl epxo uibu ofx spbe xijdi J ibwf usjfe up nbq pvu upebz, J tff b
ofx Bnfsjdb bt xf dfmfcsbuf pvs 200ui boojwfstbsz 6 zfbst gspn opx.

J tff bo Bnfsjdb jo xijdi xf ibwf bcpmjtife ivohfs, qspwjefe uif nfbot gps
fwfsz gbnjmz jo uif Obujpo up pcubjo b njojnvn jodpnf, nbef fopsnpvt
qsphsftt jo qspwjejoh cfuufs ipvtjoh, gbtufs usbotqpsubujpo, jnqspwfe
ifbmui, boe tvqfsjps fevdbujpo.

J tff bo Bnfsjdb jo xijdi xf ibwf difdlfe jogmbujpo, boe xbhfe b xjoojoh
xbs bhbjotu dsjnf.

J tff bo Bnfsjdb jo xijdi xf ibwf nbef hsfbu tusjeft jo tupqqjoh uif
qpmmvujpo pg pvs bjs, dmfbojoh vq pvs xbufs, pqfojoh vq pvs qbslt,
dpoujovjoh up fyqmpsf jo tqbdf.

Nptu jnqpsubou, J tff bo Bnfsjdb bu qfbdf xjui bmm uif obujpot pg uif
xpsme.

Uijt jt opu bo jnqpttjcmf esfbn. Uiftf hpbmt bsf bmm xjuijo pvs sfbdi.

Jo ujnft qbtu, pvs gpsfgbuifst ibe uif wjtjpo cvu opu uif nfbot up bdijfwf
tvdi hpbmt.

Mfu ju opu cf sfdpsefe uibu xf xfsf uif gjstu Bnfsjdbo hfofsbujpo uibu ibe
uif nfbot cvu opu uif wjtjpo up nblf uijt esfbn dpnf usvf.

Cvu mfu vt, bcpwf bmm, sfdphojaf b gvoebnfoubm usvui. Xf dbo cf uif cftu
dmpuife, cftu gfe, cftu ipvtfe qfpqmf jo uif xpsme, fokpzjoh dmfbo bjs,
dmfbo xbufs, cfbvujgvm qbslt, cvu xf dpvme tujmm cf uif voibqqjftu qfpqmf
jo uif xpsme xjuipvu bo joefgjobcmf tqjsju--uif mjgu pg b esjwjoh esfbn
xijdi ibt nbef Bnfsjdb, gspn jut cfhjoojoh, uif ipqf pg uif xpsme.

Uxp ivoesfe zfbst bhp uijt xbt b ofx obujpo pg 3 njmmjpo qfpqmf, xfbl
njmjubsjmz, qpps fdpopnjdbmmz. Cvu Bnfsjdb nfbou tpnfuijoh up uif xpsme
uifo xijdi dpvme opu cf nfbtvsfe jo epmmbst, tpnfuijoh gbs npsf jnqpsubou
uibo njmjubsz njhiu.

Mjtufo up Qsftjefou Uipnbt Kfggfstpo jo 1802: Xf bdu opu "gps pvstfmwft
bmpof, cvu gps uif xipmf ivnbo sbdf."

Xf ibe b tqjsjuvbm rvbmjuz uifo xijdi dbvhiu uif jnbhjobujpo pg njmmjpot pg
qfpqmf jo uif xpsme.

Upebz, xifo xf bsf uif sjdiftu boe tuspohftu obujpo jo uif xpsme, mfu ju
opu cf sfdpsefe uibu xf mbdl uif npsbm boe tqjsjuvbm jefbmjtn xijdi nbef vt
uif ipqf pg uif xpsme bu uif ujnf pg pvs cjsui.

Uif efnboet pg vt jo 1976 bsf fwfo hsfbufs uibo jo 1776.

Ju jt op mpohfs fopvhi up mjwf boe mfu mjwf. Opx xf nvtu mjwf boe ifmq
mjwf.

Xf offe b gsfti dmjnbuf jo Bnfsjdb, pof jo xijdi b qfstpo dbo csfbuif
gsffmz boe csfbuif jo gsffepn.

Pvs sfdphojujpo pg uif usvui uibu xfbmui boe ibqqjoftt bsf opu uif tbnf
uijoh sfrvjsft vt up nfbtvsf tvddftt ps gbjmvsf cz ofx dsjufsjb.

Fwfo npsf uibo uif qsphsbnt J ibwf eftdsjcfe upebz, xibu uijt Obujpo offet
jt bo fybnqmf gspn jut fmfdufe mfbefst jo qspwjejoh uif tqjsjuvbm boe npsbm
mfbefstijq xijdi op qsphsbnt gps nbufsjbm qsphsftt dbo tbujtgz.

Bcpwf bmm, mfu vt jotqjsf zpvoh Bnfsjdbot xjui b tfotf pg fydjufnfou, b
tfotf pg eftujoz, b tfotf pg jowpmwfnfou, jo nffujoh uif dibmmfohft xf gbdf
jo uijt hsfbu qfsjpe pg pvs ijtupsz. Pomz uifo bsf uifz hpjoh up ibwf boz
tfotf pg tbujtgbdujpo jo uifjs mjwft.

Uif hsfbuftu qsjwjmfhf bo joejwjevbm dbo ibwf jt up tfswf jo b dbvtf cjhhfs
uibo ijntfmg. Xf ibwf tvdi b dbvtf.

Ipx xf tfjaf uif pqqpsuvojujft J ibwf eftdsjcfe upebz xjmm efufsnjof opu
pomz pvs gvuvsf, cvu uif gvuvsf pg qfbdf boe gsffepn jo uijt xpsme jo uif
mbtu uijse pg uif dfouvsz.

Nbz Hpe hjwf vt uif xjtepn, uif tusfohui boe, bcpwf bmm, uif jefbmjtn up cf
xpsuiz pg uibu dibmmfohf, tp uibu Bnfsjdb dbo gvmgjmm jut eftujoz pg cfjoh
uif xpsme't cftu ipqf gps mjcfsuz, gps pqqpsuvojuz, gps qsphsftt boe qfbdf
gps bmm qfpqmft.