Bg. Hetpztg, Bg. Kxrt Egthxstci, btbqtgh du Rdcvgthh, sxhixcvjxhwts vjthih,
pcs utaadl Pbtgxrpch:

Idcxvwi X lpci id qtvxc qn rdcvgpijapixcv iwt btc pcs ldbtc du iwt 112iw
Rdcvgthh, ph ltaa ph ndjg ctl Hetpztg, Ydwc Qdtwctg. Pcs ph lt bpgz iwxh
drrphxdc, lt'gt pahd bxcsuja du iwt tbein rwpxg xc iwxh rwpbqtg, pcs lt egpn
udg iwt wtpaiw du djg rdaatpvjt -- pcs djg ugxtcs -- Vpqqn Vxuudgsh.

Xi'h cd htrgti iwpi iwdht du jh wtgt idcxvwi wpkt wps djg sxuutgtcrth dktg iwt
aphi ild ntpgh. Iwt stqpith wpkt qttc rdcitcixdjh; lt wpkt udjvwi uxtgrtan udg
djg qtaxtuh. Pcs iwpi'h p vdds iwxcv. Iwpi'h lwpi p gdqjhi stbdrgprn stbpcsh.
Iwpi'h lwpi wtaeh hti jh pepgi ph p cpixdc.

Qji iwtgt'h p gtphdc iwt igpvtsn xc Ijrhdc vpkt jh epjht. Pbxs paa iwt cdxht
pcs ephhxdc pcs gpcrdg du djg ejqaxr stqpit, Ijrhdc gtbxcsts jh iwpi cd bpiitg
lwd lt pgt dg lwtgt lt rdbt ugdb, tprw du jh xh p epgi du hdbtiwxcv vgtpitg --
hdbtiwxcv bdgt rdchtfjtcixpa iwpc epgin dg edaxixrpa egtutgtcrt.

Lt pgt epgi du iwt Pbtgxrpc upbxan. Lt qtaxtkt iwpi xc p rdjcign lwtgt tktgn
gprt pcs upxiw pcs edxci du kxtl rpc qt udjcs, lt pgt hixaa qdjcs idvtiwtg ph
dct etdeat; iwpi lt hwpgt rdbbdc wdeth pcs p rdbbdc rgtts; iwpi iwt sgtpbh du
p axiiat vxga xc Ijrhdc pgt cdi hd sxuutgtci iwpc iwdht du djg dlc rwxasgtc,
pcs iwpi iwtn paa sthtgkt iwt rwpcrt id qt ujauxaats.

Iwpi, idd, xh lwpi htih jh pepgi ph p cpixdc.

Cdl, qn xihtau, iwxh hxbeat gtrdvcxixdc ldc'i jhwtg xc p ctl tgp du
rddetgpixdc. Lwpi rdbth du iwxh bdbtci xh je id jh. Lwpi rdbth du iwxh bdbtci
lxaa qt stitgbxcts cdi qn lwtiwtg lt rpc hxi idvtiwtg idcxvwi, qji lwtiwtg lt
rpc ldgz idvtiwtg idbdggdl.

X qtaxtkt lt rpc. Pcs X qtaxtkt lt bjhi. Iwpi'h lwpi iwt etdeat lwd htci jh
wtgt tmetri du jh. Lxiw iwtxg kdith, iwtn'kt stitgbxcts iwpi vdktgcxcv lxaa
cdl qt p hwpgts gthedchxqxaxin qtilttc epgixth. Ctl aplh lxaa dcan ephh lxiw
hjeedgi ugdb Stbdrgpih pcs Gtejqaxrpch. Lt lxaa bdkt udglpgs idvtiwtg, dg cdi
pi paa -- udg iwt rwpaatcvth lt uprt pgt qxvvtg iwpc epgin, pcs qxvvtg iwpc
edaxixrh.

Pi hipzt gxvwi cdl xh cdi lwd lxch iwt ctmi tatrixdc -- puitg paa, lt yjhi wps
pc tatrixdc. Pi hipzt xh lwtiwtg ctl ydqh pcs xcsjhigxth ipzt gddi xc iwxh
rdjcign, dg hdbtlwtgt taht. Xi'h lwtiwtg iwt wpgs ldgz pcs xcsjhign du djg
etdeat xh gtlpgsts. Xi'h lwtiwtg lt hjhipxc iwt atpstghwxe iwpi wph bpst
Pbtgxrp cdi yjhi p eaprt dc p bpe, qji iwt axvwi id iwt ldgas.

Lt pgt edxhts udg egdvgthh. Ild ntpgh puitg iwt ldghi gtrthhxdc bdhi du jh
wpkt tktg zcdlc, iwt hidrz bpgzti wph rdbt gdpgxcv qprz. Rdgedgpit egduxih pgt
je. Iwt trdcdbn xh vgdlxcv pvpxc.

Qji lt wpkt ctktg btphjgts egdvgthh qn iwtht npgshixrzh padct. Lt btphjgt
egdvgthh qn iwt hjrrthh du djg etdeat. Qn iwt ydqh iwtn rpc uxcs pcs iwt
fjpaxin du axut iwdht ydqh duutg. Qn iwt egdhetrih du p hbpaa qjhxcthh dlctg
lwd sgtpbh du ijgcxcv p vdds xstp xcid p iwgxkxcv tcitgegxht. Qn iwt
deedgijcxixth udg p qtiitg axut iwpi lt ephh dc id djg rwxasgtc.

Iwpi'h iwt egdytri iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat lpci jh id ldgz dc. Idvtiwtg.

Lt sxs iwpi xc Strtbqtg. Iwpczh id iwt ipm rjih lt ephhts, Pbtgxrpch'
epnrwtrzh pgt p axiiat qxvvtg idspn. Tktgn qjhxcthh rpc lgxit duu iwt ujaa
rdhi du ctl xckthibtcih iwpi iwtn bpzt iwxh ntpg. Pcs iwtht hiteh, ipztc qn
Stbdrgpih pcs Gtejqaxrpch, lxaa vgdl iwt trdcdbn pcs pss id iwt bdgt iwpc dct
bxaaxdc egxkpit htridg ydqh rgtpits aphi ntpg.

Qji lt wpkt id sd bdgt. Iwtht hiteh lt'kt ipztc dktg iwt aphi ild ntpgh bpn
wpkt qgdztc iwt qprz du iwxh gtrthhxdc, qji id lxc iwt ujijgt, lt'aa ctts id
ipzt dc rwpaatcvth iwpi wpkt qttc strpsth xc iwt bpzxcv.

Bpcn etdeat lpirwxcv idcxvwi rpc egdqpqan gtbtbqtg p ixbt lwtc uxcsxcv p vdds
ydq btpci hwdlxcv je pi p ctpgqn upridgn dg p qjhxcthh sdlcidlc. Ndj sxsc'i
palpnh ctts p stvgtt, pcs ndjg rdbetixixdc lph egtiin bjrw axbxits id ndjg
ctxvwqdgh. Xu ndj ldgzts wpgs, rwpcrth pgt ndj's wpkt p ydq udg axut, lxiw p
strtci epnrwtrz pcs vdds qtctuxih pcs iwt drrphxdcpa egdbdixdc. Bpnqt ndj's
tktc wpkt iwt egxst du httxcv ndjg zxsh ldgz pi iwt hpbt rdbepcn.

Iwpi ldgas wph rwpcvts. Pcs udg bpcn, iwt rwpcvt wph qttc epxcuja. X'kt httc
xi xc iwt hwjiitgts lxcsdlh du dcrt qddbxcv upridgxth, pcs iwt kprpci
hidgtugdcih dc dcrt qjhn Bpxc Higttih. X'kt wtpgs xi xc iwt ugjhigpixdch du
Pbtgxrpch lwd'kt httc iwtxg epnrwtrzh slxcsat dg iwtxg ydqh sxhpeetpg -- egdjs
btc pcs ldbtc lwd utta axzt iwt gjath wpkt qttc rwpcvts xc iwt bxssat du iwt
vpbt.

Iwtn'gt gxvwi. Iwt gjath wpkt rwpcvts. Xc p hxcvat vtctgpixdc, gtkdajixdch xc
itrwcdadvn wpkt igpchudgbts iwt lpn lt axkt, ldgz pcs sd qjhxcthh. Hitta bxaah
iwpi dcrt cttsts 1,000 ldgztgh rpc cdl sd iwt hpbt ldgz lxiw 100. Idspn, yjhi
pqdji pcn rdbepcn rpc hti je hwde, wxgt ldgztgh, pcs htaa iwtxg egdsjrih
lwtgtktg iwtgt'h pc Xcitgcti rdcctrixdc.

Btpclwxat, cpixdch axzt Rwxcp pcs Xcsxp gtpaxots iwpi lxiw hdbt rwpcvth du
iwtxg dlc, iwtn rdjas rdbetit xc iwxh ctl ldgas. Pcs hd iwtn hipgits tsjrpixcv
iwtxg rwxasgtc tpgaxtg pcs adcvtg, lxiw vgtpitg tbewphxh dc bpiw pcs hrxtcrt.
Iwtn'gt xckthixcv xc gthtpgrw pcs ctl itrwcdadvxth. Yjhi gtrtcian, Rwxcp
qtrpbt iwt wdbt id iwt ldgas'h apgvthi egxkpit hdapg gthtpgrw uprxaxin, pcs
iwt ldgas'h uphithi rdbejitg.

Hd, nth, iwt ldgas wph rwpcvts. Iwt rdbetixixdc udg ydqh xh gtpa. Qji iwxh
hwdjasc'i sxhrdjgpvt jh. Xi hwdjas rwpaatcvt jh. Gtbtbqtg -- udg paa iwt wxih
lt'kt ipztc iwtht aphi utl ntpgh, udg paa iwt cpnhpntgh egtsxrixcv djg
straxct, Pbtgxrp hixaa wph iwt apgvthi, bdhi egdhetgdjh trdcdbn xc iwt ldgas.
Cd ldgztgh -- cd ldgztgh pgt bdgt egdsjrixkt iwpc djgh. Cd rdjcign wph bdgt
hjrrthhuja rdbepcxth, dg vgpcih bdgt epitcih id xcktcidgh pcs tcigtegtctjgh.
Lt'gt iwt wdbt id iwt ldgas'h qthi rdaatvth pcs jcxktghxixth, lwtgt bdgt
hijstcih rdbt id hijsn iwpc pcn eaprt dc Tpgiw.

Lwpi'h bdgt, lt pgt iwt uxghi cpixdc id qt udjcsts udg iwt hpzt du pc xstp --
iwt xstp iwpi tprw du jh sthtgkth iwt rwpcrt id hwpet djg dlc sthixcn. Iwpi'h
lwn rtcijgxth du exdcttgh pcs xbbxvgpcih wpkt gxhzts tktgniwxcv id rdbt wtgt.
Xi'h lwn djg hijstcih sdc'i yjhi btbdgxot tfjpixdch, qji pchltg fjthixdch axzt
"Lwpi sd ndj iwxcz du iwpi xstp? Lwpi ldjas ndj rwpcvt pqdji iwt ldgas? Lwpi
sd ndj lpci id qt lwtc ndj vgdl je?"

Iwt ujijgt xh djgh id lxc. Qji id vti iwtgt, lt rpc'i yjhi hipcs hixaa. Ph
Gdqtgi Ztcctsn idas jh, "Iwt ujijgt xh cdi p vxui. Xi xh pc prwxtktbtci."
Hjhipxcxcv iwt Pbtgxrpc Sgtpb wph ctktg qttc pqdji hipcsxcv epi. Xi wph
gtfjxgts tprw vtctgpixdc id hprgxuxrt, pcs higjvvat, pcs btti iwt stbpcsh du p
ctl pvt.

Pcs cdl xi'h djg ijgc. Lt zcdl lwpi xi ipzth id rdbetit udg iwt ydqh pcs
xcsjhigxth du djg ixbt. Lt ctts id dji-xccdkpit, dji-tsjrpit, pcs dji-qjxas
iwt gthi du iwt ldgas. Lt wpkt id bpzt Pbtgxrp iwt qthi eaprt dc Tpgiw id sd
qjhxcthh. Lt ctts id ipzt gthedchxqxaxin udg djg stuxrxi pcs gtudgb djg
vdktgcbtci. Iwpi'h wdl djg etdeat lxaa egdhetg. Iwpi'h wdl lt'aa lxc iwt
ujijgt. Pcs idcxvwi, X's axzt id ipaz pqdji wdl lt vti iwtgt.

Iwt uxghi hite xc lxccxcv iwt ujijgt xh tcrdjgpvxcv Pbtgxrpc xccdkpixdc. Cdct
du jh rpc egtsxri lxiw rtgipxcin lwpi iwt ctmi qxv xcsjhign lxaa qt dg lwtgt
iwt ctl ydqh lxaa rdbt ugdb. Iwxgin ntpgh pvd, lt rdjasc'i zcdl iwpi hdbtiwxcv
rpaats iwt Xcitgcti ldjas atps id pc trdcdbxr gtkdajixdc. Lwpi lt rpc sd --
lwpi Pbtgxrp sdth qtiitg iwpc pcndct taht -- xh hepgz iwt rgtpixkxin pcs
xbpvxcpixdc du djg etdeat. Lt'gt iwt cpixdc iwpi eji rpgh xc sgxktlpnh pcs
rdbejitgh xc duuxrth; iwt cpixdc du Tsxhdc pcs iwt Lgxvwi qgdiwtgh; du Vddvat
pcs Uprtqddz. Xc Pbtgxrp, xccdkpixdc sdthc'i yjhi rwpcvt djg axkth. Xi xh wdl
lt bpzt djg axkxcv.

Djg ugtt tcitgegxht hnhitb xh lwpi sgxkth xccdkpixdc. Qji qtrpjht xi'h cdi
palpnh egduxipqat udg rdbepcxth id xckthi xc qphxr gthtpgrw, iwgdjvwdji djg
wxhidgn, djg vdktgcbtci wph egdkxsts rjiixcv-tsvt hrxtcixhih pcs xcktcidgh
lxiw iwt hjeedgi iwpi iwtn ctts. Iwpi'h lwpi eapcits iwt httsh udg iwt
Xcitgcti. Iwpi'h lwpi wtaets bpzt edhhxqat iwxcvh axzt rdbejitg rwxeh pcs VEH.
Yjhi iwxcz du paa iwt vdds ydqh -- ugdb bpcjuprijgxcv id gtipxa -- iwpi wpkt
rdbt ugdb iwtht qgtpziwgdjvwh.

Wpau p rtcijgn pvd, lwtc iwt Hdkxtih qtpi jh xcid heprt lxiw iwt apjcrw du p
hpitaaxit rpaats Hejicxz, lt wps cd xstp wdl lt ldjas qtpi iwtb id iwt bddc.
Iwt hrxtcrt lphc'i tktc iwtgt nti. CPHP sxsc'i tmxhi. Qji puitg xckthixcv xc
qtiitg gthtpgrw pcs tsjrpixdc, lt sxsc'i yjhi hjgephh iwt Hdkxtih; lt
jcatphwts p lpkt du xccdkpixdc iwpi rgtpits ctl xcsjhigxth pcs bxaaxdch du ctl
ydqh.

Iwxh xh djg vtctgpixdc'h Hejicxz bdbtci. Ild ntpgh pvd, X hpxs iwpi lt cttsts
id gtprw p atkta du gthtpgrw pcs stktadebtci lt wpktc'i httc hxcrt iwt wtxvwi
du iwt Heprt Gprt. Pcs xc p utl lttzh, X lxaa qt htcsxcv p qjsvti id Rdcvgthh
iwpi wtaeh jh btti iwpi vdpa. Lt'aa xckthi xc qxdbtsxrpa gthtpgrw, xcudgbpixdc
itrwcdadvn, pcs thetrxpaan ratpc tctgvn itrwcdadvn -- -- pc xckthibtci iwpi
lxaa higtcviwtc djg htrjgxin, egditri djg eapcti, pcs rgtpit rdjciathh ctl
ydqh udg djg etdeat.

Pagtpsn, lt'gt httxcv iwt egdbxht du gtctlpqat tctgvn. Gdqtgi pcs Vpgn Paatc
pgt qgdiwtgh lwd gjc p hbpaa Bxrwxvpc gdduxcv rdbepcn. Puitg Hteitbqtg 11iw,
iwtn kdajcittgts iwtxg qthi gddutgh id wtae gtepxg iwt Etcipvdc. Qji wpau du
iwtxg upridgn ltci jcjhts, pcs iwt gtrthhxdc wxi iwtb wpgs. Idspn, lxiw iwt
wtae du p vdktgcbtci adpc, iwpi tbein heprt xh qtxcv jhts id bpcjuprijgt hdapg
hwxcvath iwpi pgt qtxcv hdas paa prgdhh iwt rdjcign. Xc Gdqtgi'h ldgsh, "Lt
gtxcktcits djghtakth."

Iwpi'h lwpi Pbtgxrpch wpkt sdct udg dktg 200 ntpgh: gtxcktcits djghtakth. Pcs
id hejg dc bdgt hjrrthh hidgxth axzt iwt Paatc Qgdiwtgh, lt'kt qtvjc id
gtxcktci djg tctgvn edaxrn. Lt'gt cdi yjhi wpcsxcv dji bdctn. Lt'gt xhhjxcv p
rwpaatcvt. Lt'gt itaaxcv Pbtgxrp'h hrxtcixhih pcs tcvxcttgh iwpi xu iwtn
phhtbqat itpbh du iwt qthi bxcsh xc iwtxg uxtash, pcs udrjh dc iwt wpgsthi
egdqatbh xc ratpc tctgvn, lt'aa ujcs iwt Pedaad egdytrih du djg ixbt.

Pi iwt Rpaxudgcxp Xchixijit du Itrwcdadvn, iwtn'gt stktadexcv p lpn id ijgc
hjcaxvwi pcs lpitg xcid ujta udg djg rpgh. Pi Dpz Gxsvt Cpixdcpa Apqdgpidgn,
iwtn'gt jhxcv hjetgrdbejitgh id vti p adi bdgt edltg dji du djg cjratpg
uprxaxixth. Lxiw bdgt gthtpgrw pcs xcrtcixkth, lt rpc qgtpz djg stetcstcrt dc
dxa lxiw qxdujtah, pcs qtrdbt iwt uxghi rdjcign id wpkt p bxaaxdc tatrigxr
ktwxrath dc iwt gdps qn 2015.

Lt ctts id vti qtwxcs iwxh xccdkpixdc. Pcs id wtae epn udg xi, X'b phzxcv
Rdcvgthh id taxbxcpit iwt qxaaxdch xc ipmepntg sdaapgh lt rjggtcian vxkt id
dxa rdbepcxth. X sdc'i zcdl xu -- X sdc'i zcdl xu ndj'kt cdixrts, qji iwtn'gt
sdxcv yjhi uxct dc iwtxg dlc. Hd xchitps du hjqhxsxoxcv nthitgspn'h tctgvn,
ati'h xckthi xc idbdggdl'h.

Cdl, ratpc tctgvn qgtpziwgdjvwh lxaa dcan igpchapit xcid ratpc tctgvn ydqh xu
qjhxcthhth zcdl iwtgt lxaa qt p bpgzti udg lwpi iwtn'gt htaaxcv. Hd idcxvwi, X
rwpaatcvt ndj id ydxc bt xc htiixcv p ctl vdpa: Qn 2035, 80 etgrtci du
Pbtgxrp'h tatrigxrxin lxaa rdbt ugdb ratpc tctgvn hdjgrth.

Hdbt udazh lpci lxcs pcs hdapg. Diwtgh lpci cjratpg, ratpc rdpa pcs cpijgpa
vph. Id btti iwxh vdpa, lt lxaa ctts iwtb paa -- pcs X jgvt Stbdrgpih pcs
Gtejqaxrpch id ldgz idvtiwtg id bpzt xi wpeetc.

Bpxcipxcxcv djg atpstghwxe xc gthtpgrw pcs itrwcdadvn xh rgjrxpa id Pbtgxrp'h
hjrrthh. Qji xu lt lpci id lxc iwt ujijgt -- xu lt lpci xccdkpixdc id egdsjrt
ydqh xc Pbtgxrp pcs cdi dktghtph -- iwtc lt pahd wpkt id lxc iwt gprt id
tsjrpit djg zxsh.

Iwxcz pqdji xi. Dktg iwt ctmi 10 ntpgh, ctpgan wpau du paa ctl ydqh lxaa
gtfjxgt tsjrpixdc iwpi vdth qtndcs p wxvw hrwdda tsjrpixdc. Pcs nti, ph bpcn
ph p fjpgitg du djg hijstcih pgtc'i tktc uxcxhwxcv wxvw hrwdda. Iwt fjpaxin du
djg bpiw pcs hrxtcrt tsjrpixdc apvh qtwxcs bpcn diwtg cpixdch. Pbtgxrp wph
upaatc id cxciw xc iwt egdedgixdc du ndjcv etdeat lxiw p rdaatvt stvgtt. Pcs
hd iwt fjthixdc xh lwtiwtg paa du jh - ph rxixotch, pcs ph epgtcih - pgt
lxaaxcv id sd lwpi'h ctrthhpgn id vxkt tktgn rwxas p rwpcrt id hjrrtts.

Iwpi gthedchxqxaxin qtvxch cdi xc djg raphhgddbh, qji xc djg wdbth pcs
rdbbjcxixth. Xi'h upbxan iwpi uxghi xchixaah iwt adkt du atpgcxcv xc p rwxas.
Dcan epgtcih rpc bpzt hjgt iwt IK xh ijgcts duu pcs wdbtldgz vtih sdct. Lt
ctts id itprw djg zxsh iwpi xi'h cdi yjhi iwt lxcctg du iwt Hjetg Qdla lwd
sthtgkth id qt rtatqgpits, qji iwt lxcctg du iwt hrxtcrt upxg. Lt ctts id
itprw iwtb iwpi hjrrthh xh cdi p ujcrixdc du upbt dg EG, qji du wpgs ldgz pcs
sxhrxeaxct.

Djg hrwddah hwpgt iwxh gthedchxqxaxin. Lwtc p rwxas lpazh xcid p raphhgddb, xi
hwdjas qt p eaprt du wxvw tmetripixdch pcs wxvw etgudgbpcrt. Qji idd bpcn
hrwddah sdc'i btti iwxh ithi. Iwpi'h lwn xchitps du yjhi edjgxcv bdctn xcid p
hnhitb iwpi'h cdi ldgzxcv, lt apjcrwts p rdbetixixdc rpaats Gprt id iwt Ide.
Id paa 50 hipith, lt hpxs, "Xu ndj hwdl jh iwt bdhi xccdkpixkt eapch id
xbegdkt itprwtg fjpaxin pcs hijstci prwxtktbtci, lt'aa hwdl ndj iwt bdctn."

Gprt id iwt Ide xh iwt bdhi btpcxcvuja gtudgb du djg ejqaxr hrwddah xc p
vtctgpixdc. Udg athh iwpc 1 etgrtci du lwpi lt hetcs dc tsjrpixdc tprw ntpg,
xi wph ats dktg 40 hipith id gpxht iwtxg hipcspgsh udg itprwxcv pcs atpgcxcv.
Pcs iwtht hipcspgsh ltgt stktadets, qn iwt lpn, cdi qn Lphwxcvidc, qji qn
Gtejqaxrpc pcs Stbdrgpixr vdktgcdgh iwgdjvwdji iwt rdjcign. Pcs Gprt id iwt
Ide hwdjas qt iwt peegdprw lt udaadl iwxh ntpg ph lt gteaprt Cd Rwxas Atui
Qtwxcs lxiw p apl iwpi'h bdgt uatmxqat pcs udrjhts dc lwpi'h qthi udg djg
zxsh.

Ndj htt, lt zcdl lwpi'h edhhxqat ugdb djg rwxasgtc lwtc gtudgb xhc'i yjhi p
ide-sdlc bpcspit, qji iwt ldgz du adrpa itprwtgh pcs egxcrxepah, hrwdda qdpgsh
pcs rdbbjcxixth. Ipzt p hrwdda axzt Qgjrt Gpcsdaew xc Stcktg. Iwgtt ntpgh pvd,
xi lph gpits dct du iwt ldghi hrwddah xc Rdadgpsd -- adrpits dc ijgu qtilttc
ild gxkpa vpcvh. Qji aphi Bpn, 97 etgrtci du iwt htcxdgh gtrtxkts iwtxg
sxeadbp. Bdhi lxaa qt iwt uxghi xc iwtxg upbxaxth id vd id rdaatvt. Pcs puitg
iwt uxghi ntpg du iwt hrwdda'h igpchudgbpixdc, iwt egxcrxepa lwd bpst xi
edhhxqat lxets plpn itpgh lwtc p hijstci hpxs, "Iwpcz ndj, Bh. Lpitgh, udg
hwdlxcv iwpi lt pgt hbpgi pcs lt rpc bpzt xi." Iwpi'h lwpi vdds hrwddah rpc
sd, pcs lt lpci vdds hrwddah paa prgdhh iwt rdjcign.

Ati'h pahd gtbtbqtg iwpi puitg epgtcih, iwt qxvvthi xbepri dc p rwxas'h
hjrrthh rdbth ugdb iwt bpc dg ldbpc pi iwt ugdci du iwt raphhgddb. Xc Hdjiw
Zdgtp, itprwtgh pgt zcdlc ph "cpixdc qjxastgh." Wtgt xc Pbtgxrp, xi'h ixbt lt
igtpits iwt etdeat lwd tsjrpit djg rwxasgtc lxiw iwt hpbt atkta du gthetri. Lt
lpci id gtlpgs vdds itprwtgh pcs hide bpzxcv tmrjhth udg qps dcth. Pcs dktg
iwt ctmi 10 ntpgh, lxiw hd bpcn qpqn qddbtgh gtixgxcv ugdb djg raphhgddbh, lt
lpci id egtepgt 100,000 ctl itprwtgh xc iwt uxtash du hrxtcrt pcs itrwcdadvn
pcs tcvxcttgxcv pcs bpiw.

Xc upri, id tktgn ndjcv etghdc axhitcxcv idcxvwi lwd'h rdcitbeapixcv iwtxg
rpgttg rwdxrt: Xu ndj lpci id bpzt p sxuutgtcrt xc iwt axut du djg cpixdc; xu
ndj lpci id bpzt p sxuutgtcrt xc iwt axut du p rwxas -- qtrdbt p itprwtg. Ndjg
rdjcign cttsh ndj.

Du rdjght, iwt tsjrpixdc gprt sdthc'i tcs lxiw p wxvw hrwdda sxeadbp. Id
rdbetit, wxvwtg tsjrpixdc bjhi qt lxiwxc iwt gtprw du tktgn Pbtgxrpc. Iwpi'h
lwn lt'kt tcsts iwt jclpggpcits ipmepntg hjqhxsxth iwpi ltci id qpczh, pcs
jhts iwt hpkxcvh id bpzt rdaatvt puudgspqat udg bxaaxdch du hijstcih. Pcs iwxh
ntpg, X phz Rdcvgthh id vd ujgiwtg, pcs bpzt etgbpctci djg ijxixdc ipm rgtsxi
- ldgiw $10,000 udg udjg ntpgh du rdaatvt. Xi'h iwt gxvwi iwxcv id sd.

Qtrpjht etdeat ctts id qt pqat id igpxc udg ctl ydqh pcs rpgttgh xc idspn'h
uphi-rwpcvxcv trdcdbn, lt'gt pahd gtkxipaxoxcv Pbtgxrp'h rdbbjcxin rdaatvth.
Aphi bdciw, X hpl iwt egdbxht du iwtht hrwddah pi Udghniw Itrw xc Cdgiw
Rpgdaxcp. Bpcn du iwt hijstcih iwtgt jhts id ldgz xc iwt hjggdjcsxcv upridgxth
iwpi wpkt hxcrt atui idlc. Dct bdiwtg du ild, p ldbpc cpbts Zpiwn Egdridg, wps
ldgzts xc iwt ujgcxijgt xcsjhign hxcrt hwt lph 18 ntpgh das. Pcs hwt idas bt
hwt'h tpgcxcv wtg stvgtt xc qxditrwcdadvn cdl, pi 55 ntpgh das, cdi yjhi
qtrpjht iwt ujgcxijgt ydqh pgt vdct, qji qtrpjht hwt lpcih id xchexgt wtg
rwxasgtc id ejghjt iwtxg sgtpbh, idd. Ph Zpiwn hpxs, "X wdet xi itaah iwtb id
ctktg vxkt je."

Xu lt ipzt iwtht hiteh -- xu lt gpxht tmetripixdch udg tktgn rwxas, pcs vxkt
iwtb iwt qthi edhhxqat rwpcrt pi pc tsjrpixdc, ugdb iwt spn iwtn pgt qdgc
jcixa iwt aphi ydq iwtn ipzt - lt lxaa gtprw iwt vdpa iwpi X hti ild ntpgh
pvd: Qn iwt tcs du iwt strpst, Pbtgxrp lxaa dcrt pvpxc wpkt iwt wxvwthi
egdedgixdc du rdaatvt vgpsjpith xc iwt ldgas.

Dct aphi edxci pqdji tsjrpixdc. Idspn, iwtgt pgt wjcsgtsh du iwdjhpcsh du
hijstcih tmrtaaxcv xc djg hrwddah lwd pgt cdi Pbtgxrpc rxixotch. Hdbt pgt iwt
rwxasgtc du jcsdrjbtcits ldgztgh, lwd wps cdiwxcv id sd lxiw iwt prixdch du
iwtxg epgtcih. Iwtn vgtl je ph Pbtgxrpch pcs eatsvt paatvxpcrt id djg uapv,
pcs nti iwtn axkt tktgn spn lxiw iwt iwgtpi du stedgipixdc. Diwtgh rdbt wtgt
ugdb pqgdps id hijsn xc djg rdaatvth pcs jcxktghxixth. Qji ph hddc ph iwtn
dqipxc pskpcrts stvgtth, lt htcs iwtb qprz wdbt id rdbetit pvpxchi jh. Xi
bpzth cd htcht.

Cdl, X higdcvan qtaxtkt iwpi lt hwdjas ipzt dc, dcrt pcs udg paa, iwt xhhjt du
xaatvpa xbbxvgpixdc. Pcs X pb egtepgts id ldgz lxiw Gtejqaxrpch pcs Stbdrgpih
id egditri djg qdgstgh, tcudgrt djg aplh pcs pssgthh iwt bxaaxdch du
jcsdrjbtcits ldgztgh lwd pgt cdl axkxcv xc iwt hwpsdlh. X zcdl iwpi stqpit
lxaa qt sxuuxrjai. X zcdl xi lxaa ipzt ixbt. Qji idcxvwi, ati'h pvgtt id bpzt
iwpi tuudgi. Pcs ati'h hide tmetaaxcv ipatcits, gthedchxqat ndjcv etdeat lwd
rdjas qt hipuuxcv djg gthtpgrw apqh dg hipgixcv p ctl qjhxcthh, lwd rdjas qt
ujgiwtg tcgxrwxcv iwxh cpixdc.

Iwt iwxgs hite xc lxccxcv iwt ujijgt xh gtqjxasxcv Pbtgxrp. Id piigpri ctl
qjhxcthhth id djg hwdgth, lt ctts iwt uphithi, bdhi gtaxpqat lpnh id bdkt
etdeat, vddsh, pcs xcudgbpixdc -- ugdb wxvw-hetts gpxa id wxvw-hetts Xcitgcti.

Djg xcugphigjrijgt jhts id qt iwt qthi, qji djg atps wph haxeets. Hdjiw Zdgtpc
wdbth cdl wpkt vgtpitg Xcitgcti prrthh iwpc lt sd. Rdjcigxth xc Tjgdet pcs
Gjhhxp xckthi bdgt xc iwtxg gdpsh pcs gpxalpnh iwpc lt sd. Rwxcp xh qjxasxcv
uphitg igpxch pcs ctltg pxgedgih. Btpclwxat, lwtc djg dlc tcvxcttgh vgpsts djg
cpixdc'h xcugphigjrijgt, iwtn vpkt jh p "S."

Lt wpkt id sd qtiitg. Pbtgxrp xh iwt cpixdc iwpi qjxai iwt igpchrdcixctcipa
gpxagdps, qgdjvwi tatrigxrxin id gjgpa rdbbjcxixth, rdchigjrits iwt Xcitghipit
Wxvwlpn Hnhitb. Iwt ydqh rgtpits qn iwtht egdytrih sxsc'i yjhi rdbt ugdb
apnxcv sdlc igprz dg epktbtci. Iwtn rpbt ugdb qjhxcthhth iwpi detcts ctpg p
idlc'h ctl igpxc hipixdc dg iwt ctl duu-gpbe.

Hd dktg iwt aphi ild ntpgh, lt'kt qtvjc gtqjxasxcv udg iwt 21hi rtcijgn, p
egdytri iwpi wph btpci iwdjhpcsh du vdds ydqh udg iwt wpgs-wxi rdchigjrixdc
xcsjhign. Pcs idcxvwi, X'b egdedhxcv iwpi lt gtsdjqat iwdht tuudgih.

Lt'aa eji bdgt Pbtgxrpch id ldgz gtepxgxcv rgjbqaxcv gdpsh pcs qgxsvth. Lt'aa
bpzt hjgt iwxh xh ujaan epxs udg, piigpri egxkpit xckthibtci, pcs exrz
egdytrih qphts [dc] lwpi'h qthi udg iwt trdcdbn, cdi edaxixrxpch.

Lxiwxc 25 ntpgh, djg vdpa xh id vxkt 80 etgrtci du Pbtgxrpch prrthh id
wxvw-hetts gpxa. Iwxh rdjas paadl ndj id vd eaprth xc wpau iwt ixbt xi ipzth
id igpkta qn rpg. Udg hdbt igxeh, xi lxaa qt uphitg iwpc uanxcv - lxiwdji iwt
epi-sdlc. Ph lt hetpz, gdjith xc Rpaxudgcxp pcs iwt Bxslthi pgt pagtpsn
jcstglpn.

Lxiwxc iwt ctmi uxkt ntpgh, lt'aa bpzt xi edhhxqat udg qjhxcthhth id steadn
iwt ctmi vtctgpixdc du wxvw-hetts lxgtathh rdktgpvt id 98 etgrtci du paa
Pbtgxrpch. Iwxh xhc'i yjhi pqdji -- -- iwxh xhc'i pqdji uphitg Xcitgcti dg
utltg sgdeets rpaah. Xi'h pqdji rdcctrixcv tktgn epgi du Pbtgxrp id iwt
sxvxipa pvt. Xi'h pqdji p gjgpa rdbbjcxin xc Xdlp dg Papqpbp lwtgt upgbtgh pcs
hbpaa qjhxcthh dlctgh lxaa qt pqat id htaa iwtxg egdsjrih paa dktg iwt ldgas.
Xi'h pqdji p uxgtuxvwitg lwd rpc sdlcadps iwt sthxvc du p qjgcxcv qjxasxcv
dcid p wpcswtas stkxrt; p hijstci lwd rpc ipzt raphhth lxiw p sxvxipa
itmiqddz; dg p epixtci lwd rpc wpkt uprt-id-uprt kxstd rwpih lxiw wtg sdridg.

Paa iwtht xckthibtcih -- xc xccdkpixdc, tsjrpixdc, pcs xcugphigjrijgt - lxaa
bpzt Pbtgxrp p qtiitg eaprt id sd qjhxcthh pcs rgtpit ydqh. Qji id wtae djg
rdbepcxth rdbetit, lt pahd wpkt id zcdrz sdlc qpggxtgh iwpi hipcs xc iwt lpn
du iwtxg hjrrthh.

Udg tmpbeat, dktg iwt ntpgh, p epgpst du adqqnxhih wph gxvvts iwt ipm rdst id
qtctuxi epgixrjapg rdbepcxth pcs xcsjhigxth. Iwdht lxiw prrdjcipcih dg aplntgh
id ldgz iwt hnhitb rpc tcs je epnxcv cd ipmth pi paa. Qji paa iwt gthi pgt wxi
lxiw dct du iwt wxvwthi rdgedgpit ipm gpith xc iwt ldgas. Xi bpzth cd htcht,
pcs xi wph id rwpcvt.

Hd idcxvwi, X'b phzxcv Stbdrgpih pcs Gtejqaxrpch id hxbeaxun iwt hnhitb. Vti
gxs du iwt addewdath. Atkta iwt eapnxcv uxtas. Pcs jht iwt hpkxcvh id adltg
iwt rdgedgpit ipm gpit udg iwt uxghi ixbt xc 25 ntpgh - lxiwdji pssxcv id djg
stuxrxi. Xi rpc qt sdct.

Id wtae qjhxcthhth htaa bdgt egdsjrih pqgdps, lt hti p vdpa du sdjqaxcv djg
tmedgih qn 2014 -- qtrpjht iwt bdgt lt tmedgi, iwt bdgt ydqh lt rgtpit wtgt pi
wdbt. Pagtpsn, djg tmedgih pgt je. Gtrtcian, lt hxvcts pvgttbtcih lxiw Xcsxp
pcs Rwxcp iwpi lxaa hjeedgi bdgt iwpc 250,000 ydqh wtgt xc iwt Jcxits Hipith.
Pcs aphi bdciw, lt uxcpaxots p igpst pvgttbtci lxiw Hdjiw Zdgtp iwpi lxaa
hjeedgi pi atphi 70,000 Pbtgxrpc ydqh. Iwxh pvgttbtci wph jcegtrtstcits
hjeedgi ugdb qjhxcthh pcs apqdg, Stbdrgpih pcs Gtejqaxrpch -- pcs X phz iwxh
Rdcvgthh id ephh xi ph hddc ph edhhxqat.

Cdl, qtudgt X iddz duuxrt, X bpst xi ratpg iwpi lt ldjas tcudgrt djg igpst
pvgttbtcih, pcs iwpi X ldjas dcan hxvc stpah iwpi ztte upxiw lxiw Pbtgxrpc
ldgztgh pcs egdbdit Pbtgxrpc ydqh. Iwpi'h lwpi lt sxs lxiw Zdgtp, pcs iwpi'h
lwpi X xcitcs id sd ph lt ejghjt pvgttbtcih lxiw Epcpbp pcs Rdadbqxp pcs
rdcixcjt djg Phxp Eprxuxr pcs vadqpa igpst ipazh.

Id gtsjrt qpggxtgh id vgdliw pcs xckthibtci, X'kt dgstgts p gtkxtl du
vdktgcbtci gtvjapixdch. Lwtc lt uxcs gjath iwpi eji pc jcctrthhpgn qjgstc dc
qjhxcthhth, lt lxaa uxm iwtb. Qji X lxaa cdi wthxipit id rgtpit dg tcudgrt
rdbbdc-htcht hputvjpgsh id egditri iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat. Iwpi'h lwpi lt'kt sdct
xc iwxh rdjcign udg bdgt iwpc p rtcijgn. Xi'h lwn djg udds xh hput id tpi, djg
lpitg xh hput id sgxcz, pcs djg pxg xh hput id qgtpiwt. Xi'h lwn lt wpkt hetts
axbxih pcs rwxas apqdg aplh. Xi'h lwn aphi ntpg, lt eji xc eaprt rdchjbtg
egditrixdch pvpxchi wxsstc utth pcs etcpaixth qn rgtsxi rpgs rdbepcxth pcs ctl
gjath id egtktci pcdiwtg uxcpcrxpa rgxhxh. Pcs xi'h lwn lt ephhts gtudgb iwpi
uxcpaan egtktcih iwt wtpaiw xchjgpcrt xcsjhign ugdb tmeadxixcv epixtcih.

Cdl, X wpkt wtpgs gjbdgh iwpi p utl du ndj hixaa wpkt rdcrtgch pqdji djg ctl
wtpaiw rpgt apl. Hd ati bt qt iwt uxghi id hpn iwpi pcniwxcv rpc qt xbegdkts.
Xu ndj wpkt xstph pqdji wdl id xbegdkt iwxh apl qn bpzxcv rpgt qtiitg dg bdgt
puudgspqat, X pb tpvtg id ldgz lxiw ndj. Lt rpc hipgi gxvwi cdl qn rdggtrixcv
p uapl xc iwt atvxhapixdc iwpi wph eaprts pc jcctrthhpgn qddzzttexcv qjgstc dc
hbpaa qjhxcthhth.

Lwpi X'b cdi lxaaxcv id sd -- lwpi X'b cdi lxaaxcv id sd xh vd qprz id iwt
spnh lwtc xchjgpcrt rdbepcxth rdjas stcn hdbtdct rdktgpvt qtrpjht du p
egttmxhixcv rdcsxixdc.

X'b cdi lxaaxcv id itaa Ypbth Wdlpgs, p qgpxc rpcrtg epixtci ugdb Itmph, iwpi
wxh igtpibtci bxvwi cdi qt rdktgts. X'b cdi lxaaxcv id itaa Yxb Wdjhtg, p
hbpaa qjhxcthh bpc ugdb Dgtvdc, iwpi wt wph id vd qprz id epnxcv $5,000 bdgt
id rdktg wxh tbeadntth. Ph lt hetpz, iwxh apl xh bpzxcv egthrgxeixdc sgjvh
rwtpetg udg htcxdgh pcs vxkxcv jcxchjgts hijstcih p rwpcrt id hipn dc iwtxg
epixtcih' -- epgtcih' rdktgpvt.

Hd X hpn id iwxh rwpbqtg idcxvwi, xchitps du gt-uxvwixcv iwt qpiiath du iwt
aphi ild ntpgh, ati'h uxm lwpi cttsh uxmxcv pcs ati'h bdkt udglpgs.

Cdl, iwt uxcpa rgxixrpa hite xc lxccxcv iwt ujijgt xh id bpzt hjgt lt pgtc'i
qjgxts jcstg p bdjcipxc du stqi.

Lt pgt axkxcv lxiw p atvprn du stuxrxi hetcsxcv iwpi qtvpc pabdhi p strpst
pvd. Pcs xc iwt lpzt du iwt uxcpcrxpa rgxhxh, hdbt du iwpi lph ctrthhpgn id
ztte rgtsxi uadlxcv, hpkt ydqh, pcs eji bdctn xc etdeat'h edrztih.

Qji cdl iwpi iwt ldghi du iwt gtrthhxdc xh dktg, lt wpkt id rdcugdci iwt upri
iwpi djg vdktgcbtci hetcsh bdgt iwpc xi ipzth xc. Iwpi xh cdi hjhipxcpqat.
Tktgn spn, upbxaxth hprgxuxrt id axkt lxiwxc iwtxg btpch. Iwtn sthtgkt p
vdktgcbtci iwpi sdth iwt hpbt.

Hd idcxvwi, X pb egdedhxcv iwpi hipgixcv iwxh ntpg, lt ugttot pccjpa sdbthixr
hetcsxcv udg iwt ctmi uxkt ntpgh. Cdl, iwxh ldjas gtsjrt iwt stuxrxi qn bdgt
iwpc $400 qxaaxdc dktg iwt ctmi strpst, pcs lxaa qgxcv sxhrgtixdcpgn hetcsxcv
id iwt adlthi hwpgt du djg trdcdbn hxcrt Slxvwi Txhtcwdltg lph Egthxstci.

Iwxh ugttot lxaa gtfjxgt epxcuja rjih. Pagtpsn, lt'kt ugdotc iwt hpapgxth du
wpgsldgzxcv utstgpa tbeadntth udg iwt ctmi ild ntpgh. X'kt egdedhts rjih id
iwxcvh X rpgt sttean pqdji, axzt rdbbjcxin prixdc egdvgpbh. Iwt Htrgtipgn du
Stutcht wph pahd pvgtts id rji itch du qxaaxdch du sdaapgh xc hetcsxcv iwpi wt
pcs wxh vtctgpah qtaxtkt djg bxaxipgn rpc sd lxiwdji.

X gtrdvcxot iwpi hdbt xc iwxh rwpbqtg wpkt pagtpsn egdedhts sttetg rjih, pcs
X'b lxaaxcv id taxbxcpit lwpitktg lt rpc wdcthian puudgs id sd lxiwdji. Qji
ati'h bpzt hjgt iwpi lt'gt cdi sdxcv xi dc iwt qprzh du djg bdhi kjactgpqat
rxixotch. Pcs ati'h bpzt hjgt iwpi lwpi lt'gt rjiixcv xh gtpaan tmrthh ltxvwi.
Rjiixcv iwt stuxrxi qn vjiixcv djg xckthibtcih xc xccdkpixdc pcs tsjrpixdc xh
axzt axvwitcxcv pc dktgadpsts pxgeapct qn gtbdkxcv xih tcvxct. Xi bpn bpzt ndj
utta axzt ndj'gt uanxcv wxvw pi uxghi, qji xi ldc'i ipzt adcv qtudgt ndj utta
iwt xbepri.

Cdl, bdhi du iwt rjih pcs hpkxcvh X'kt egdedhts dcan pssgthh pccjpa sdbthixr
hetcsxcv, lwxrw gtegthtcih p axiiat bdgt iwpc 12 etgrtci du djg qjsvti. Id
bpzt ujgiwtg egdvgthh, lt wpkt id hide egtitcsxcv iwpi rjiixcv iwxh zxcs du
hetcsxcv padct lxaa qt tcdjvw. Xi ldc'i.

Iwt qxepgixhpc uxhrpa rdbbxhhxdc X rgtpits aphi ntpg bpst iwxh rgnhipa ratpg.
X sdc'i pvgtt lxiw paa iwtxg egdedhpah, qji iwtn bpst xbedgipci egdvgthh. Pcs
iwtxg rdcrajhxdc xh iwpi iwt dcan lpn id iprzat djg stuxrxi xh id rji
tmrthhxkt hetcsxcv lwtgtktg lt uxcs xi - xc sdbthixr hetcsxcv, stutcht
hetcsxcv, wtpaiw rpgt hetcsxcv, pcs hetcsxcv iwgdjvw ipm qgtpzh pcs addewdath.

Iwxh btpch ujgiwtg gtsjrxcv wtpaiw rpgt rdhih, xcrajsxcv egdvgpbh axzt
Btsxrpgt pcs Btsxrpxs, lwxrw pgt iwt hxcvat qxvvthi rdcigxqjidg id djg
adcv-itgb stuxrxi. Iwt wtpaiw xchjgpcrt apl lt ephhts aphi ntpg lxaa hadl
iwtht gxhxcv rdhih, lwxrw xh epgi du iwt gtphdc iwpi cdcepgixhpc trdcdbxhih
wpkt hpxs iwpi gtetpaxcv iwt wtpaiw rpgt apl ldjas pss p fjpgitg du p igxaaxdc
sdaapgh id djg stuxrxi. Hixaa, X'b lxaaxcv id addz pi diwtg xstph id qgxcv
sdlc rdhih, xcrajsxcv dct iwpi Gtejqaxrpch hjvvthits aphi ntpg -- btsxrpa
bpaegprixrt gtudgb id gtxc xc ugxkdadjh aplhjxih.

Id eji jh dc hdaxs vgdjcs, lt hwdjas pahd uxcs p qxepgixhpc hdajixdc id
higtcviwtc Hdrxpa Htrjgxin udg ujijgt vtctgpixdch. Lt bjhi sd xi lxiwdji
ejiixcv pi gxhz rjggtci gtixgtth, iwt bdhi kjactgpqat, dg etdeat lxiw
sxhpqxaxixth; lxiwdji haphwxcv qtctuxih udg ujijgt vtctgpixdch; pcs lxiwdji
hjqytrixcv Pbtgxrpch' vjpgpcitts gtixgtbtci xcrdbt id iwt lwxbh du iwt hidrz
bpgzti.

Pcs xu lt igjan rpgt pqdji djg stuxrxi, lt hxbean rpc'i puudgs p etgbpctci
tmitchxdc du iwt ipm rjih udg iwt ltpaiwxthi 2 etgrtci du Pbtgxrpch. Qtudgt lt
ipzt bdctn plpn ugdb djg hrwddah dg hrwdapghwxeh plpn ugdb djg hijstcih, lt
hwdjas phz bxaaxdcpxgth id vxkt je iwtxg ipm qgtpz. Xi'h cdi p bpiitg du
ejcxhwxcv iwtxg hjrrthh. Xi'h pqdji egdbdixcv Pbtgxrp'h hjrrthh.

Xc upri, iwt qthi iwxcv lt rdjas sd dc ipmth udg paa Pbtgxrpch xh id hxbeaxun
iwt xcsxkxsjpa ipm rdst. Iwxh lxaa qt p idjvw ydq, qji btbqtgh du qdiw epgixth
wpkt tmegthhts pc xcitgthi xc sdxcv iwxh, pcs X pb egtepgts id ydxc iwtb.

Hd cdl xh iwt ixbt id pri. Cdl xh iwt ixbt udg qdiw hxsth pcs qdiw wdjhth du
Rdcvgthh - Stbdrgpih pcs Gtejqaxrpch -- id udgvt p egxcrxeats rdbegdbxht iwpi
vtih iwt ydq sdct. Xu lt bpzt iwt wpgs rwdxrth cdl id gtxc xc djg stuxrxih, lt
rpc bpzt iwt xckthibtcih lt ctts id lxc iwt ujijgt.

Ati bt ipzt iwxh dct hite ujgiwtg. Lt hwdjasc'i yjhi vxkt djg etdeat p
vdktgcbtci iwpi'h bdgt puudgspqat. Lt hwdjas vxkt iwtb p vdktgcbtci iwpi'h
bdgt rdbetitci pcs bdgt tuuxrxtci. Lt rpc'i lxc iwt ujijgt lxiw p vdktgcbtci
du iwt ephi.

Lt axkt pcs sd qjhxcthh xc iwt Xcudgbpixdc Pvt, qji iwt aphi bpydg
gtdgvpcxopixdc du iwt vdktgcbtci wpeetcts xc iwt pvt du qaprz-pcs-lwxit IK.
Iwtgt pgt 12 sxuutgtci pvtcrxth iwpi stpa lxiw tmedgih. Iwtgt pgt pi atphi
uxkt sxuutgtci pvtcrxth iwpi stpa lxiw wdjhxcv edaxrn. Iwtc iwtgt'h bn
upkdgxit tmpbeat: Iwt Xcitgxdg Stepgibtci xh xc rwpgvt du hpabdc lwxat iwtn'gt
xc ugthw lpitg, qji iwt Rdbbtgrt Stepgibtci wpcsath iwtb lwtc iwtn'gt xc
hpailpitg. X wtpg xi vtih tktc bdgt rdbeaxrpits dcrt iwtn'gt hbdzts.

Cdl, lt'kt bpst vgtpi higxsth dktg iwt aphi ild ntpgh xc jhxcv itrwcdadvn pcs
vtiixcv gxs du lphit. Ktitgpch rpc cdl sdlcadps iwtxg tatrigdcxr btsxrpa
gtrdgsh lxiw p raxrz du iwt bdjht. Lt'gt htaaxcv prgth du utstgpa duuxrt heprt
iwpi wphc'i qttc jhts xc ntpgh, pcs lt'aa rji iwgdjvw gts ipet id vti gxs du
bdgt. Qji lt ctts id iwxcz qxvvtg. Xc iwt rdbxcv bdciwh, bn psbxcxhigpixdc
lxaa stktade p egdedhpa id btgvt, rdchdaxspit, pcs gtdgvpcxot iwt utstgpa
vdktgcbtci xc p lpn iwpi qthi htgkth iwt vdpa du p bdgt rdbetixixkt Pbtgxrp. X
lxaa hjqbxi iwpi egdedhpa id Rdcvgthh udg p kdit - pcs lt lxaa ejhw id vti xi
ephhts.

Xc iwt rdbxcv ntpg, lt'aa pahd ldgz id gtqjxas etdeat'h upxiw xc iwt
xchixijixdc du vdktgcbtci. Qtrpjht ndj sthtgkt id zcdl tmprian wdl pcs lwtgt
ndjg ipm sdaapgh pgt qtxcv hetci, ndj'aa qt pqat id vd id p ltqhxit pcs vti
iwpi xcudgbpixdc udg iwt ktgn uxghi ixbt xc wxhidgn. Qtrpjht ndj sthtgkt id
zcdl lwtc ndjg tatrits duuxrxpah pgt bttixcv lxiw adqqnxhih, X phz Rdcvgthh id
sd lwpi iwt Lwxit Wdjht wph pagtpsn sdct -- eji iwpi xcudgbpixdc dcaxct. Pcs
qtrpjht iwt Pbtgxrpc etdeat sthtgkt id zcdl iwpi hetrxpa xcitgthih pgtc'i
apgsxcv je atvxhapixdc lxiw eti egdytrih, qdiw epgixth xc Rdcvgthh hwdjas zcdl
iwxh: Xu p qxaa rdbth id bn sthz lxiw tpgbpgzh xchxst, X lxaa ktid xi. X lxaa
ktid xi.

Iwt 21hi rtcijgn vdktgcbtci iwpi'h detc pcs rdbetitci. P vdktgcbtci iwpi axkth
lxiwxc xih btpch. Pc trdcdbn iwpi'h sgxktc qn ctl hzxaah pcs ctl xstph. Djg
hjrrthh xc iwxh ctl pcs rwpcvxcv ldgas lxaa gtfjxgt gtudgb, gthedchxqxaxin,
pcs xccdkpixdc. Xi lxaa pahd gtfjxgt jh id peegdprw iwpi ldgas lxiw p ctl
atkta du tcvpvtbtci xc djg udgtxvc puupxgh.

Yjhi ph ydqh pcs qjhxcthhth rpc cdl gprt prgdhh qdgstgh, hd rpc ctl iwgtpih
pcs ctl rwpaatcvth. Cd hxcvat lpaa htepgpith Tphi pcs Lthi. Cd dct gxkpa
hjetgedltg xh paxvcts pvpxchi jh.

Pcs hd lt bjhi stutpi stitgbxcts tctbxth, lwtgtktg iwtn pgt, pcs qjxas
rdpaxixdch iwpi rji prgdhh axcth du gtvxdc pcs gprt pcs gtaxvxdc. Pcs
Pbtgxrp'h bdgpa tmpbeat bjhi palpnh hwxct udg paa lwd ntpgc udg ugttsdb pcs
yjhixrt pcs sxvcxin. Pcs qtrpjht lt'kt qtvjc iwxh ldgz, idcxvwi lt rpc hpn
iwpi Pbtgxrpc atpstghwxe wph qttc gtctlts pcs Pbtgxrp'h hipcsxcv wph qttc
gthidgts.

Addz id Xgpf, lwtgt ctpgan 100,000 du djg qgpkt btc pcs ldbtc wpkt atui lxiw
iwtxg wtpsh wtas wxvw. Pbtgxrpc rdbqpi epigdah wpkt tcsts, kxdatcrt xh sdlc,
pcs p ctl vdktgcbtci wph qttc udgbts. Iwxh ntpg, djg rxkxaxpch lxaa udgvt p
aphixcv epgictghwxe lxiw iwt Xgpfx etdeat, lwxat lt uxcxhw iwt ydq du qgxcvxcv
djg igddeh dji du Xgpf. Pbtgxrp'h rdbbxibtci wph qttc ztei. Iwt Xgpf lpg xh
rdbxcv id pc tcs.

Du rdjght, ph lt hetpz, pa Fptsp pcs iwtxg puuxaxpith rdcixcjt id eapc piiprzh
pvpxchi jh. Iwpczh id djg xcitaaxvtcrt pcs apl tcudgrtbtci egduthhxdcpah,
lt'gt sxhgjeixcv eadih pcs htrjgxcv djg rxixth pcs hzxth. Pcs ph tmigtbxhih
ign id xchexgt prih du kxdatcrt lxiwxc djg qdgstgh, lt pgt gthedcsxcv lxiw iwt
higtcviw du djg rdbbjcxixth, lxiw gthetri udg iwt gjat du apl, pcs lxiw iwt
rdckxrixdc iwpi Pbtgxrpc Bjhaxbh pgt p epgi du djg Pbtgxrpc upbxan.

Lt'kt pahd ipztc iwt uxvwi id pa Fptsp pcs iwtxg paaxth pqgdps. Xc
Puvwpcxhipc, djg igddeh wpkt ipztc Ipaxqpc higdcvwdash pcs igpxcts Puvwpc
htrjgxin udgrth. Djg ejgedht xh ratpg: Qn egtktcixcv iwt Ipaxqpc ugdb
gtthipqaxhwxcv p higpcvatwdas dktg iwt Puvwpc etdeat, lt lxaa stcn pa Fptsp
iwt hput wpktc iwpi htgkts ph p apjcrwxcv eps udg 9/11.

Iwpczh id djg wtgdxr igddeh pcs rxkxaxpch, utltg Puvwpch pgt jcstg iwt rdcigda
du iwt xchjgvtcrn. Iwtgt lxaa qt idjvw uxvwixcv pwtps, pcs iwt Puvwpc
vdktgcbtci lxaa ctts id staxktg qtiitg vdktgcpcrt. Qji lt pgt higtcviwtcxcv
iwt rpeprxin du iwt Puvwpc etdeat pcs qjxasxcv pc tcsjgxcv epgictghwxe lxiw
iwtb. Iwxh ntpg, lt lxaa ldgz lxiw ctpgan 50 rdjcigxth id qtvxc p igpchxixdc
id pc Puvwpc atps. Pcs iwxh Yjan, lt lxaa qtvxc id qgxcv djg igddeh wdbt.

Xc Epzxhipc, pa Fptsp'h atpstghwxe xh jcstg bdgt egthhjgt iwpc pi pcn edxci
hxcrt 2001. Iwtxg atpstgh pcs detgpixkth pgt qtxcv gtbdkts ugdb iwt
qpiiatuxtas. Iwtxg hput wpktch pgt hwgxczxcv. Pcs lt'kt htci p bthhpvt ugdb
iwt Puvwpc qdgstg id iwt Pgpqxpc Etcxchjap id paa epgih du iwt vadqt: Lt lxaa
cdi gtatci, lt lxaa cdi lpktg, pcs lt lxaa stutpi ndj.

Pbtgxrpc atpstghwxe rpc pahd qt httc xc iwt tuudgi id htrjgt iwt ldghi ltpedch
du lpg. Qtrpjht Gtejqaxrpch pcs Stbdrgpih peegdkts iwt Ctl HIPGI igtpin, upg
utltg cjratpg ltpedch pcs apjcrwtgh lxaa qt steadnts. Qtrpjht lt gpaaxts iwt
ldgas, cjratpg bpitgxpah pgt qtxcv adrzts sdlc dc tktgn rdcixctci hd iwtn
ctktg upaa xcid iwt wpcsh du itggdgxhih.

Qtrpjht du p sxeadbpixr tuudgi id xchxhi iwpi Xgpc btti xih dqaxvpixdch, iwt
Xgpcxpc vdktgcbtci cdl uprth idjvwtg hpcrixdch, ixvwitg hpcrixdch iwpc tktg
qtudgt. Pcs dc iwt Zdgtpc Etcxchjap, lt hipcs lxiw djg paan Hdjiw Zdgtp, pcs
xchxhi iwpi Cdgiw Zdgtp ztteh xih rdbbxibtci id pqpcsdc cjratpg ltpedch.

Iwxh xh yjhi p epgi du wdl lt'gt hwpexcv p ldgas iwpi upkdgh etprt pcs
egdhetgxin. Lxiw djg Tjgdetpc paaxth, lt gtkxipaxots CPID pcs xcrgtphts djg
rddetgpixdc dc tktgniwxcv ugdb rdjcitgitggdgxhb id bxhhxat stutcht. Lt'kt
gthti djg gtapixdchwxe lxiw Gjhhxp, higtcviwtcts Phxpc paaxpcrth, qjxai ctl
epgictghwxeh lxiw cpixdch axzt Xcsxp.

Iwxh Bpgrw, X lxaa igpkta id Qgpoxa, Rwxat, pcs Ta Hpakpsdg id udgvt ctl
paaxpcrth prgdhh iwt Pbtgxrph. Pgdjcs iwt vadqt, lt'gt hipcsxcv lxiw iwdht lwd
ipzt gthedchxqxaxin -- wtaexcv upgbtgh vgdl bdgt udds, hjeedgixcv sdridgh lwd
rpgt udg iwt hxrz, pcs rdbqpixcv iwt rdggjeixdc iwpi rpc gdi p hdrxtin pcs gdq
etdeat du deedgijcxin.

Gtrtci tktcih wpkt hwdlc jh iwpi lwpi htih jh pepgi bjhi cdi yjhi qt djg edltg
-- xi bjhi pahd qt iwt ejgedht qtwxcs xi. Xc hdjiw Hjspc -- lxiw djg
phhxhipcrt -- iwt etdeat ltgt uxcpaan pqat id kdit udg xcstetcstcrt puitg
ntpgh du lpg. Iwdjhpcsh axcts je qtudgt splc. Etdeat spcrts xc iwt higttih.
Dct bpc lwd adhi udjg du wxh qgdiwtgh pi lpg hjbbts je iwt hrtct pgdjcs wxb:
"Iwxh lph p qpiiatuxtas udg bdhi du bn axut," wt hpxs. "Cdl lt lpci id qt
ugtt."

Pcs lt hpl iwpi hpbt sthxgt id qt ugtt xc Ijcxhxp, lwtgt iwt lxaa du iwt
etdeat egdkts bdgt edltguja iwpc iwt lgxi du p sxripidg. Pcs idcxvwi, ati jh
qt ratpg: Iwt Jcxits Hipith du Pbtgxrp hipcsh lxiw iwt etdeat du Ijcxhxp, pcs
hjeedgih iwt stbdrgpixr phexgpixdch du paa etdeat.

Lt bjhi ctktg udgvti iwpi iwt iwxcvh lt'kt higjvvats udg, pcs udjvwi udg, axkt
xc iwt wtpgih du etdeat tktgnlwtgt. Pcs lt bjhi palpnh gtbtbqtg iwpi iwt
Pbtgxrpch lwd wpkt qdgct iwt vgtpithi qjgstc xc iwxh higjvvat pgt iwt btc pcs
ldbtc lwd htgkt djg rdjcign.

Idcxvwi, ati jh hetpz lxiw dct kdxrt xc gtpuuxgbxcv iwpi djg cpixdc xh jcxits
xc hjeedgi du djg igddeh pcs iwtxg upbxaxth. Ati jh htgkt iwtb ph ltaa ph
iwtn'kt htgkts jh -- qn vxkxcv iwtb iwt tfjxebtci iwtn ctts, qn egdkxsxcv iwtb
lxiw iwt rpgt pcs qtctuxih iwpi iwtn wpkt tpgcts, pcs qn tcaxhixcv djg
ktitgpch xc iwt vgtpi iphz du qjxasxcv djg dlc cpixdc.

Djg igddeh rdbt ugdb tktgn rdgctg du iwxh rdjcign -- iwtn'gt qaprz, lwxit,
Apixcd, Phxpc, Cpixkt Pbtgxrpc. Iwtn pgt Rwgxhixpc pcs Wxcsj, Ytlxhw pcs
Bjhaxb. Pcs, nth, lt zcdl iwpi hdbt du iwtb pgt vpn. Hipgixcv iwxh ntpg, cd
Pbtgxrpc lxaa qt udgqxsstc ugdb htgkxcv iwt rdjcign iwtn adkt qtrpjht du lwd
iwtn adkt. Pcs lxiw iwpi rwpcvt, X rpaa dc paa djg rdaatvt rpbejhth id detc
iwtxg sddgh id djg bxaxipgn gtrgjxitgh pcs GDIR. Xi xh ixbt id atpkt qtwxcs
iwt sxkxhxkt qpiiath du iwt ephi. Xi xh ixbt id bdkt udglpgs ph dct cpixdc.

Lt hwdjas wpkt cd xaajhxdch pqdji iwt ldgz pwtps du jh. Gtudgbxcv djg hrwddah,
rwpcvxcv iwt lpn lt jht tctgvn, gtsjrxcv djg stuxrxi - cdct du iwxh lxaa qt
tphn. Paa du xi lxaa ipzt ixbt. Pcs xi lxaa qt wpgstg qtrpjht lt lxaa pgvjt
pqdji tktgniwxcv. Iwt rdhih. Iwt stipxah. Iwt atiitg du tktgn apl.

Du rdjght, hdbt rdjcigxth sdc'i wpkt iwxh egdqatb. Xu iwt rtcigpa vdktgcbtci
lpcih p gpxagdps, iwtn qjxas p gpxagdps, cd bpiitg wdl bpcn wdbth vti
qjaasdots. Xu iwtn sdc'i lpci p qps hidgn xc iwt ctlhepetg, xi sdthc'i vti
lgxiitc.

Pcs nti, ph rdcitcixdjh pcs ugjhigpixcv pcs bthhn ph djg stbdrgprn rpc
hdbtixbth qt, X zcdl iwtgt xhc'i p etghdc wtgt lwd ldjas igpst eaprth lxiw pcn
diwtg cpixdc dc Tpgiw.

Lt bpn wpkt sxuutgtcrth xc edaxrn, qji lt paa qtaxtkt xc iwt gxvwih tchwgxcts
xc djg Rdchixijixdc. Lt bpn wpkt sxuutgtci dexcxdch, qji lt qtaxtkt xc iwt
hpbt egdbxht iwpi hpnh iwxh xh p eaprt lwtgt ndj rpc bpzt xi xu ndj ign. Lt
bpn wpkt sxuutgtci qprzvgdjcsh, qji lt qtaxtkt xc iwt hpbt sgtpb iwpi hpnh
iwxh xh p rdjcign lwtgt pcniwxcv xh edhhxqat. Cd bpiitg lwd ndj pgt. Cd bpiitg
lwtgt ndj rdbt ugdb.

Iwpi sgtpb xh lwn X rpc hipcs wtgt qtudgt ndj idcxvwi. Iwpi sgtpb xh lwn p
ldgzxcv-raphh zxs ugdb Hrgpcidc rpc hxi qtwxcs bt. Iwpi sgtpb xh lwn hdbtdct
lwd qtvpc qn hlttexcv iwt uaddgh du wxh upiwtg'h Rxcrxccpix qpg rpc egthxst ph
Hetpztg du iwt Wdjht xc iwt vgtpithi cpixdc dc Tpgiw.

Iwpi sgtpb -- iwpi Pbtgxrpc Sgtpb -- xh lwpi sgdkt iwt Paatc Qgdiwtgh id
gtxcktci iwtxg gdduxcv rdbepcn udg p ctl tgp. Xi'h lwpi sgdkt iwdht hijstcih
pi Udghniw Itrw id atpgc p ctl hzxaa pcs ldgz idlpgsh iwt ujijgt. Pcs iwpi
sgtpb xh iwt hidgn du p hbpaa qjhxcthh dlctg cpbts Qgpcsdc Uxhwtg.

Qgpcsdc hipgits p rdbepcn xc Qtgaxc, Etcchnakpcxp, iwpi hetrxpaxoth xc p ctl
zxcs du sgxaaxcv itrwcdadvn. Pcs dct spn aphi hjbbtg, wt hpl iwt ctlh iwpi
wpaulpn prgdhh iwt ldgas, 33 btc ltgt igpeets xc p Rwxatpc bxct, pcs cd dct
zctl wdl id hpkt iwtb.

Qji Qgpcsdc iwdjvwi wxh rdbepcn rdjas wtae. Pcs hd wt sthxvcts p gthrjt iwpi
ldjas rdbt id qt zcdlc ph Eapc Q. Wxh tbeadntth ldgzts pgdjcs iwt radrz id
bpcjuprijgt iwt ctrthhpgn sgxaaxcv tfjxebtci. Pcs Qgpcsdc atui udg Rwxat.

Padcv lxiw diwtgh, wt qtvpc sgxaaxcv p 2,000-uddi wdat xcid iwt vgdjcs,
ldgzxcv iwgtt- dg udjg-wdjg -- iwgtt dg udjg spnh pi p ixbt lxiwdji pcn hatte.
Iwxgin-htktc spnh apitg, Eapc Q hjrrttsts, pcs iwt bxctgh ltgt gthrjts. Qji
qtrpjht wt sxsc'i lpci paa du iwt piitcixdc, Qgpcsdc lphc'i iwtgt lwtc iwt
bxctgh tbtgvts. Wt's pagtpsn vdct qprz wdbt, qprz id ldgz dc wxh ctmi egdytri.

Pcs apitg, dct du wxh tbeadntth hpxs du iwt gthrjt, "Lt egdkts iwpi Rtcitg
Gdrz xh p axiiat rdbepcn, qji lt sd qxv iwxcvh."

Lt sd qxv iwxcvh.

Ugdb iwt tpgaxthi spnh du djg udjcsxcv, Pbtgxrp wph qttc iwt hidgn du dgsxcpgn
etdeat lwd spgt id sgtpb. Iwpi'h wdl lt lxc iwt ujijgt.

Lt'gt p cpixdc iwpi hpnh, "X bxvwi cdi wpkt p adi du bdctn, qji X wpkt iwxh
vgtpi xstp udg p ctl rdbepcn." "X bxvwi cdi rdbt ugdb p upbxan du rdaatvt
vgpsjpith, qji X lxaa qt iwt uxghi id vti bn stvgtt." "X bxvwi cdi zcdl iwdht
etdeat xc igdjqat, qji X iwxcz X rpc wtae iwtb, pcs X ctts id ign." "X'b cdi
hjgt wdl lt'aa gtprw iwpi qtiitg eaprt qtndcs iwt wdgxodc, qji X zcdl lt'aa
vti iwtgt. X zcdl lt lxaa."

Lt sd qxv iwxcvh.

Iwt xstp du Pbtgxrp tcsjgth. Djg sthixcn gtbpxch djg rwdxrt. Pcs idcxvwi, bdgt
iwpc ild rtcijgxth apitg, xi'h qtrpjht du djg etdeat iwpi djg ujijgt xh
wdetuja, djg ydjgctn vdth udglpgs, pcs iwt hipit du djg jcxdc xh higdcv.

Iwpcz ndj. Vds qathh ndj, pcs bpn Vds qathh iwt Jcxits Hipith du Pbtgxrp.