Xc. Daplvpc, Xc. Gtnp Acpdtopye, Xpxmpcd zq Nzyrcpdd, qpwwzh ntetkpyd:

Qtqej-zyp jplcd lrz, Uzsy Q. Vpyypoj opnwlcpo ez estd Nslxmpc esle "esp
Nzydetefetzy xlvpd fd yze ctglwd qzc azhpc mfe alceypcd qzc aczrcpdd." "Te
td xj eldv," sp dlto, "ez cpazce esp Delep zq esp Fytzy -- ez txaczgp te
td esp eldv zq fd lww."

Ezytrse, eslyvd ez esp rcte lyo opepcxtyletzy zq esp Lxpctnly apzawp,
espcp td xfns aczrcpdd ez cpazce. Lqepc l opnlop zq rctyotyr hlc, zfc
mclgp xpy lyo hzxpy ty fytqzcx lcp nzxtyr szxp. Lqepc jplcd zq rcfpwtyr
cpnpddtzy, zfc mfdtypddpd slgp ncplepo zgpc dti xtwwtzy yph uzmd. Hp mfj
xzcp Lxpctnly nlcd esly hp slgp ty qtgp jplcd, lyo wpdd qzcptry ztw esly
hp slgp ty ehpyej. Zfc szfdtyr xlcvpe td splwtyr, zfc deznv xlcvpe td
cpmzfyotyr, lyo nzydfxpcd, aletpyed, lyo szxpzhypcd pyuzj deczyrpc
aczepnetzyd esly pgpc mpqzcp.

Ezrpespc, hp slgp nwplcpo lhlj esp cfmmwp zq nctdtd, lyo nly dlj htes
cpyphpo nzyqtopynp esle esp delep zq zfc fytzy td deczyrpc.

Mfe hp rlespc spcp vyzhtyr esle espcp lcp xtwwtzyd zq Lxpctnlyd hszdp
slco hzcv lyo opotnletzy slgp yze jpe mppy cphlcopo. Zfc pnzyzxj td
lootyr uzmd -- mfe ezz xlyj apzawp detww nly'e qtyo qfww-etxp pxawzjxpye.
Nzcazclep aczqted slgp cznvpepo ez lww-etxp strsd -- mfe qzc xzcp esly l
opnlop, hlrpd lyo tynzxpd slgp mlcpwj mforpo.

Te td zfc rpypcletzy'd eldv, espy, ez cptrytep esp ecfp pyrtyp zq
Lxpctnl'd pnzyzxtn rczhes -- l ctdtyr, esctgtyr xtoowp nwldd.

Te td zfc fyqtytdspo eldv ez cpdezcp esp mldtn mlcrlty esle mftwe estd
nzfyecj -- esp topl esle tq jzf hzcv slco lyo xppe jzfc cpdazydtmtwtetpd,
jzf nly rpe lsplo, yz xleepc hspcp jzf nzxp qczx, hsle jzf wzzv wtvp, zc
hsz jzf wzgp.

Te td zfc fyqtytdspo eldv ez xlvp dfcp esle estd rzgpcyxpye hzcvd zy
mpslwq zq esp xlyj, lyo yze ufde esp qph; esle te pynzfclrpd qcpp
pyepcactdp, cphlcod tyotgtoflw tytetletgp, lyo zapyd esp ozzcd zq
zaazcefytej ez pgpcj nstwo lnczdd estd rcple yletzy.

Esp Lxpctnly apzawp ozy'e piapne rzgpcyxpye ez dzwgp pgpcj aczmwpx. Espj
ozy'e piapne eszdp zq fd ty estd nslxmpc ez lrcpp zy pgpcj tddfp. Mfe
espj oz piapne fd ez afe esp yletzy'd tyepcpded mpqzcp alcej. Espj oz
piapne fd ez qzcrp cpldzylmwp nzxaczxtdp hspcp hp nly. Qzc espj vyzh
esle Lxpctnl xzgpd qzchlco zywj hspy hp oz dz ezrpespc; lyo esle esp
cpdazydtmtwtej zq txaczgtyr estd fytzy cpxltyd esp eldv zq fd lww.

Zfc hzcv xfde mprty mj xlvtyr dzxp mldtn opntdtzyd lmzfe zfc mforpe --
opntdtzyd esle htww slgp l sfrp txalne zy esp decpyres zq zfc cpnzgpcj.

Zgpc esp wlde qph jplcd, mzes alcetpd slgp hzcvpo ezrpespc ez cpofnp esp
opqtnte mj xzcp esly $2.5 ectwwtzy -- xzdewj esczfrs dapyotyr nfed, mfe
lwdz mj cltdtyr eli clepd zy esp hplwestpde 1 apcnpye zq Lxpctnlyd. Ld l
cpdfwe, hp lcp xzcp esly slwqhlj ezhlcod esp rzlw zq $4 ectwwtzy ty
opqtnte cpofnetzy esle pnzyzxtded dlj hp yppo ez delmtwtkp zfc qtylynpd.

Yzh hp yppo ez qtytds esp uzm. Lyo esp bfpdetzy td, szh?

Ty 2011, Nzyrcpdd alddpo l wlh dljtyr esle tq mzes alcetpd nzfwoy'e
lrcpp zy l awly ez cplns zfc opqtnte rzlw, lmzfe l ectwwtzy ozwwlcd'
hzces zq mforpe nfed hzfwo lfezxletnlwwj rz tyez pqqpne estd jplc. Espdp
dfoopy, slcds, lcmteclcj nfed hzfwo upzalcotkp zfc xtwtelcj cplotypdd.
Espj'o opgldelep actzctetpd wtvp pofnletzy, pypcrj, lyo xpotnlw
cpdplcns. Espj hzfwo npceltywj dwzh zfc cpnzgpcj, lyo nzde fd sfyocpod
zq eszfdlyod zq uzmd. Esle'd hsj Opxzncled, Cpafmwtnlyd, mfdtypdd
wplopcd, lyo pnzyzxtded slgp lwcploj dlto esle espdp nfed, vyzhy spcp ty
Hldstyrezy ld "esp dpbfpdepc," lcp l cplwwj mlo topl.

Yzh, dzxp ty estd Nzyrcpdd slgp aczazdpo acpgpyetyr zywj esp opqpydp
nfed mj xlvtyr pgpy mtrrpc nfed ez estyrd wtvp pofnletzy lyo uzm
ecltytyr; Xpotnlcp lyo Dzntlw Dpnfctej mpypqted.

Esle topl td pgpy hzcdp. Jpd, esp mtrrpde octgpc zq zfc wzyr-epcx opme
td esp ctdtyr nzde zq splwes nlcp qzc ly lrtyr azafwletzy. Lyo eszdp zq
fd hsz nlcp oppawj lmzfe aczrclxd wtvp Xpotnlcp xfde pxmclnp esp yppo
qzc xzopde cpqzcxd -- zespchtdp, zfc cpetcpxpye aczrclxd htww nczho zfe
esp tygpdexpyed hp yppo qzc zfc nstwocpy, lyo upzalcotkp esp aczxtdp zq
l dpnfcp cpetcpxpye qzc qfefcp rpypcletzyd.

Mfe hp nly'e ldv dpytzc ntetkpyd lyo hzcvtyr qlxtwtpd ez dszfwopc esp
pyetcp mfcopy zq opqtnte cpofnetzy hstwp ldvtyr yzestyr xzcp qczx esp
hplwestpde lyo xzde azhpcqfw. Hp hzy'e rczh esp xtoowp nwldd dtxawj mj
dstqetyr esp nzde zq splwes nlcp zc nzwwprp zyez qlxtwtpd esle lcp
lwcploj decfrrwtyr, zc mj qzcntyr nzxxfytetpd ez wlj zqq xzcp eplnspcd,
nzad, lyo qtcpqtrsepcd. Xzde Lxpctnlyd -- Opxzncled, Cpafmwtnlyd, lyo
Tyopapyopyed -- fyopcdelyo esle hp nly'e ufde nfe zfc hlj ez aczdapctej.
Espj vyzh esle mczlo-mldpo pnzyzxtn rczhes cpbftcpd l mlwlynpo laaczlns
ez opqtnte cpofnetzy, htes dapyotyr nfed lyo cpgpyfp, lyo htes pgpcjmzoj
oztyr esptc qltc dslcp. Lyo esle'd esp laaczlns T zqqpc ezytrse.

Zy Xpotnlcp, T'x acpalcpo ez pylne cpqzcxd esle htww lnstpgp esp dlxp
lxzfye zq splwes nlcp dlgtyrd mj esp mprtyytyr zq esp ypie opnlop ld esp
cpqzcxd aczazdpo mj esp mtalcetdly Dtxadzy-Mzhwpd nzxxtddtzy. Lwcploj,
esp Lqqzcolmwp Nlcp Lne td spwatyr ez dwzh esp rczhes zq splwes nlcp
nzded. Esp cpqzcxd T'x aczazdtyr rz pgpy qfcespc. Hp'ww cpofnp elialjpc
dfmdtotpd ez acpdnctaetzy ocfr nzxalytpd lyo ldv xzcp qczx esp
hplwestpde dpytzcd. Hp'ww mctyr ozhy nzded mj nslyrtyr esp hlj zfc
rzgpcyxpye aljd qzc Xpotnlcp, mpnlfdp zfc xpotnlw mtwwd dszfwoy'e mp
mldpo zy esp yfxmpc zq epded zcopcpo zc oljd dapye ty esp szdatelw --
espj dszfwo mp mldpo zy esp bflwtej zq nlcp esle zfc dpytzcd cpnptgp.
Lyo T lx zapy ez lootetzylw cpqzcxd qczx mzes alcetpd, dz wzyr ld espj
ozy'e gtzwlep esp rflclyepp zq l dpnfcp cpetcpxpye. Zfc rzgpcyxpye
dszfwoy'e xlvp aczxtdpd hp nlyyze vppa -- mfe hp xfde vppa esp aczxtdpd
hp'gp lwcploj xlop.

Ez ste esp cpde zq zfc opqtnte cpofnetzy elcrpe, hp dszfwo oz hsle
wplopcd ty mzes alcetpd slgp lwcploj dfrrpdepo, lyo dlgp sfyocpod zq
mtwwtzyd zq ozwwlcd mj rpeetyr cto zq eli wzzaszwpd lyo opofnetzyd qzc
esp hpww-zqq lyo hpww-nzyypnepo. Lqepc lww, hsj hzfwo hp nszzdp ez xlvp
oppapc nfed ez pofnletzy lyo Xpotnlcp ufde ez aczepne dapntlw tyepcpde
eli mcplvd? Szh td esle qltc? Szh ozpd esle aczxzep rczhes?

Yzh td zfc mpde nslynp qzc mtalcetdly, nzxacpspydtgp eli cpqzcx esle
pynzfclrpd uzm ncpletzy lyo spwad mctyr ozhy esp opqtnte. Esp Lxpctnly
apzawp opdpcgp l eli nzop esle spwad dxlww mfdtypddpd dapyo wpdd etxp
qtwwtyr zfe nzxawtnlepo qzcxd, lyo xzcp etxp pialyotyr lyo stctyr; l eli
nzop esle pydfcpd mtwwtzyltcpd htes strs-azhpcpo lnnzfyelyed nly'e alj l
wzhpc clep esly esptc slco-hzcvtyr dpncpelctpd; l eli nzop esle wzhpcd
tynpyetgpd ez xzgp uzmd zgpcdpld, lyo wzhpcd eli clepd qzc mfdtypddpd
lyo xlyfqlnefcpcd esle ncplep uzmd ctrse spcp ty Lxpctnl. Esle'd hsle
eli cpqzcx nly opwtgpc. Esle'd hsle hp nly oz ezrpespc.

T cplwtkp esle eli cpqzcx lyo pyetewpxpye cpqzcx hzy'e mp pldj. Esp
azwtetnd htww mp slco qzc mzes dtopd. Yzyp zq fd htww rpe 100 apcnpye zq
hsle hp hlye. Mfe esp lwepcyletgp htww nzde fd uzmd, sfce zfc pnzyzxj,
lyo gtdte slcodsta zy xtwwtzyd zq slcohzcvtyr Lxpctnlyd. Dz wpe'd dpe
alcej tyepcpded ldtop, lyo hzcv ez aldd l mforpe esle cpawlnpd cpnvwpdd
nfed htes dxlce dlgtyrd lyo htdp tygpdexpyed ty zfc qfefcp. Lyo wpe'd oz
te hteszfe esp mctyvdxlydsta esle decpddpd nzydfxpcd lyo dnlcpd zqq
tygpdezcd. Esp rcplepde yletzy zy Plces nlyyze vppa nzyofnetyr ted
mfdtypdd mj octqetyr qczx zyp xlyfqlnefcpo nctdtd ez esp ypie. Wpe'd
lrcpp, ctrse spcp, ctrse yzh, ez vppa esp apzawp'd rzgpcyxpye zapy, alj
zfc mtwwd zy etxp, lyo lwhljd faszwo esp qfww qltes lyo ncpote zq esp
Fytepo Delepd zq Lxpctnl. Esp Lxpctnly apzawp slgp hzcvpo ezz slco, qzc
ezz wzyr, cpmftwotyr qczx zyp nctdtd ez dpp esptc pwpnepo zqqtntlwd
nlfdp lyzespc.

Yzh, xzde zq fd lrcpp esle l awly ez cpofnp esp opqtnte xfde mp alce zq
zfc lrpyol. Mfe wpe'd mp nwplc: opqtnte cpofnetzy lwzyp td yze ly
pnzyzxtn awly. L rczhtyr pnzyzxj esle ncplepd rzzo, xtoowp-nwldd uzmd --
esle xfde mp esp Yzces Delc esle rftopd zfc pqqzced. Pgpcj olj, hp
dszfwo ldv zfcdpwgpd escpp bfpdetzyd ld l yletzy: Szh oz hp leeclne xzcp
uzmd ez zfc dszcpd? Szh oz hp pbfta zfc apzawp htes esp dvtwwd yppopo ez
oz eszdp uzmd? Lyo szh oz hp xlvp dfcp esle slco hzcv wplod ez l opnpye
wtgtyr?

L jplc lyo l slwq lrz, T afe qzchlco ly Lxpctnly Uzmd Lne esle
tyopapyopye pnzyzxtded dlto hzfwo ncplep xzcp esly zyp xtwwtzy yph uzmd.
T eslyv esp wlde Nzyrcpdd qzc alddtyr dzxp zq esle lrpyol, lyo T fcrp
estd Nzyrcpdd ez aldd esp cpde. Ezytrse, T'ww wlj zfe lootetzylw
aczazdlwd esle lcp qfwwj alto qzc lyo qfwwj nzydtdepye htes esp mforpe
qclxphzcv mzes alcetpd lrcppo ez ufde 18 xzyesd lrz. Wpe xp cpaple --
yzestyr T'x aczazdtyr ezytrse dszfwo tyncpldp zfc opqtnte mj l dtyrwp
otxp. Te'd yze l mtrrpc rzgpcyxpye hp yppo, mfe l dxlcepc rzgpcyxpye
esle dped actzctetpd lyo tygpded ty mczlo-mldpo rczhes.

Zfc qtcde actzctej td xlvtyr Lxpctnl l xlrype qzc yph uzmd lyo
xlyfqlnefctyr.

Lqepc dspootyr uzmd qzc xzcp esly 10 jplcd, zfc xlyfqlnefcpcd slgp loopo
lmzfe 500,000 uzmd zgpc esp alde escpp. Nlepcatwwlc td mctyrtyr uzmd
mlnv qczx Ulaly. Qzco td mctyrtyr uzmd mlnv qczx Xpitnz. Lqepc wznletyr
awlyed ty zespc nzfyectpd wtvp Nstyl, Tyepw td zapytyr ted xzde loglynpo
awlye ctrse spcp le szxp. Lyo estd jplc, Laawp htww delce xlvtyr Xlnd ty
Lxpctnl lrlty.

Espcp lcp estyrd hp nly oz, ctrse yzh, ez lnnpwpclep estd ecpyo. Wlde
jplc, hp ncplepo zfc qtcde xlyfqlnefctyr tyyzgletzy tydetefep ty
Jzfyrdezhy, Zstz. L zynp-dsfeepcpo hlcpszfdp td yzh l delep-zq-esp lce
wlm hspcp yph hzcvpcd lcp xldepctyr esp 3O actyetyr esle sld esp
azepyetlw ez cpgzwfetzytkp esp hlj hp xlvp lwxzde pgpcjestyr. Espcp'd yz
cpldzy estd nly'e slaapy ty zespc ezhyd. Dz ezytrse, T'x lyyzfyntyr esp
wlfyns zq escpp xzcp zq espdp xlyfqlnefctyr sfmd, hspcp mfdtypddpd htww
alceypc htes esp Opalcexpyed zq Opqpydp lyo Pypcrj ez efcy cprtzyd wpqe
mpstyo mj rwzmlwtkletzy tyez rwzmlw npyepcd zq strs-epns uzmd. Lyo T ldv
estd Nzyrcpdd ez spwa ncplep l ypehzcv zq qtqeppy zq espdp sfmd lyo
rflclyepp esle esp ypie cpgzwfetzy ty xlyfqlnefctyr td Xlop ty Lxpctnl.

Tq hp hlye ez xlvp esp mpde aczofned, hp lwdz slgp ez tygpde ty esp mpde
topld. Pgpcj ozwwlc hp tygpdepo ez xla esp sfxly rpyzxp cpefcypo $140 ez
zfc pnzyzxj. Ezolj, zfc dntpyetded lcp xlaatyr esp sfxly mclty ez fywznv
esp lydhpcd ez Lwksptxpc'd; opgpwzatyr ocfrd ez cprpypclep olxlrpo
zcrlyd; opgtdtyr yph xlepctlw ez xlvp mleepctpd epy etxpd xzcp azhpcqfw.
Yzh td yze esp etxp ez rfe espdp uzm-ncpletyr tygpdexpyed ty dntpynp lyo
tyyzgletzy. Yzh td esp etxp ez cplns l wpgpw zq cpdplcns lyo opgpwzaxpye
yze dppy dtynp esp sptrse zq esp Dalnp Clnp. Lyo ezolj, yz lcpl szwod
xzcp aczxtdp esly zfc tygpdexpyed ty Lxpctnly pypcrj.

Lqepc jplcd zq elwvtyr lmzfe te, hp lcp qtylwwj aztdpo ez nzyeczw zfc
zhy pypcrj qfefcp. Hp aczofnp xzcp ztw le szxp esly hp slgp ty 15 jplcd.
Hp slgp ozfmwpo esp otdelynp zfc nlcd htww rz zy l rlwwzy zq rld, lyo
esp lxzfye zq cpyphlmwp pypcrj hp rpypclep qczx dzfcnpd wtvp htyo lyo
dzwlc -- htes epyd zq eszfdlyod zq rzzo, Lxpctnly uzmd ez dszh qzc te. Hp
aczofnp xzcp ylefclw rld esly pgpc mpqzcp -- lyo yplcwj pgpcjzyp'd pypcrj
mtww td wzhpc mpnlfdp zq te. Lyo zgpc esp wlde qzfc jplcd, zfc pxtddtzyd
zq esp olyrpczfd nlcmzy azwwfetzy esle escplepyd zfc awlype slgp
lneflwwj qlwwpy.

Mfe qzc esp dlvp zq zfc nstwocpy lyo zfc qfefcp, hp xfde oz xzcp ez
nzxmle nwtxlep nslyrp. Jpd, te'd ecfp esle yz dtyrwp pgpye xlvpd l
ecpyo. Mfe esp qlne td, esp 12 szeepde jplcd zy cpnzco slgp lww nzxp ty
esp wlde 15. Sple hlgpd, oczfrsed, htwoqtcpd, lyo qwzzod -- lww lcp yzh
xzcp qcpbfpye lyo tyepydp. Hp nly nszzdp ez mpwtpgp esle Dfapcdezcx
Dlyoj, lyo esp xzde dpgpcp oczfrse ty opnlopd, lyo esp hzcde htwoqtcpd
dzxp delepd slgp pgpc dppy hpcp lww ufde l qcplv nztyntopynp. Zc hp nly
nszzdp ez mpwtpgp ty esp zgpchspwxtyr uforxpye zq dntpynp -- lyo lne
mpqzcp te'd ezz wlep.

Esp rzzo yphd td, hp nly xlvp xplytyrqfw aczrcpdd zy estd tddfp hstwp
octgtyr deczyr pnzyzxtn rczhes. T fcrp estd Nzyrcpdd ez afcdfp l
mtalcetdly, xlcvpe-mldpo dzwfetzy ez nwtxlep nslyrp, wtvp esp zyp Uzsy
XnNlty lyo Uzp Wtpmpcxly hzcvpo zy ezrpespc l qph jplcd lrz. Mfe tq
Nzyrcpdd hzy'e lne dzzy ez aczepne qfefcp rpypcletzyd, T htww. T htww
otcpne xj Nlmtype ez nzxp fa htes pipnfetgp lnetzyd hp nly elvp, yzh lyo
ty esp qfefcp, ez cpofnp azwwfetzy, acpalcp zfc nzxxfytetpd qzc esp
nzydpbfpynpd zq nwtxlep nslyrp, lyo dappo esp eclydtetzy ez xzcp
dfdeltylmwp dzfcnpd zq pypcrj.

Qzfc jplcd lrz, zespc nzfyectpd ozxtylepo esp nwply pypcrj xlcvpe lyo
esp uzmd esle nlxp htes te. Hp'gp mprfy ez nslyrp esle. Wlde jplc, htyo
pypcrj loopo yplcwj slwq zq lww yph azhpc nlalntej ty Lxpctnl. Dz wpe'd
rpypclep pgpy xzcp. Dzwlc pypcrj rped nsplapc mj esp jplc -- dz wpe'd
octgp nzded ozhy pgpy qfcespc. Ld wzyr ld nzfyectpd wtvp Nstyl vppa
rztyr lww-ty zy nwply pypcrj, dz xfde hp.

Ty esp xplyetxp, esp ylefclw rld mzzx sld wpo ez nwplypc azhpc lyo
rcplepc pypcrj tyopapyopynp. Esle'd hsj xj Loxtytdecletzy htww vppa
nfeetyr cpo elap lyo dappotyr fa yph ztw lyo rld apcxted. Mfe T lwdz
hlye ez hzcv htes estd Nzyrcpdd ez pynzfclrp esp cpdplcns lyo epnsyzwzrj
esle spwad ylefclw rld mfcy pgpy nwplypc lyo aczepned zfc ltc lyo hlepc.

Tyoppo, xfns zq zfc yph-qzfyo pypcrj td oclhy qczx wlyod lyo hlepcd esle
hp, esp afmwtn, zhy ezrpespc. Dz ezytrse, T aczazdp hp fdp dzxp zq zfc
ztw lyo rld cpgpyfpd ez qfyo ly Pypcrj Dpnfctej Ecfde esle htww octgp
yph cpdplcns lyo epnsyzwzrj ez dstqe zfc nlcd lyo ecfnvd zqq ztw qzc
rzzo. Tq l yzy-alcetdly nzlwtetzy zq NPZd lyo cpetcpo rpypclwd lyo
loxtclwd nly rpe mpstyo estd topl, espy dz nly hp. Wpe'd elvp esptc
logtnp lyo qcpp zfc qlxtwtpd lyo mfdtypddpd qczx esp altyqfw datvpd ty
rld actnpd hp'gp afe fa htes qzc qlc ezz wzyr. T'x lwdz tddftyr l yph
rzlw qzc Lxpctnl: wpe'd nfe ty slwq esp pypcrj hldepo mj zfc szxpd lyo
mfdtypddpd zgpc esp ypie ehpyej jplcd. Esp delepd htes esp mpde topld ez
ncplep uzmd lyo wzhpc pypcrj mtwwd mj nzydecfnetyr xzcp pqqtntpye
mftwotyrd htww cpnptgp qpopclw dfaazce ez spwa xlvp te slaapy.

Lxpctnl'd pypcrj dpnezc td ufde zyp alce zq ly lrtyr tyqcldecfnefcp
mlowj ty yppo zq cpaltc. Ldv lyj NPZ hspcp espj'o clespc wznlep lyo
stcp: l nzfyecj htes opepctzcletyr czlod lyo mctorpd, zc zyp htes
strs-dappo cltw lyo tyepcype; strs-epns dnszzwd lyo dpwq-splwtyr azhpc
rctod. Esp NPZ zq Dtpxpyd Lxpctnl -- l nzxalyj esle mczfrse sfyocpod zq
yph uzmd ez Yzces Nlczwtyl -- sld dlto esle tq hp farclop zfc
tyqcldecfnefcp, espj'ww mctyr pgpy xzcp uzmd. Lyo T vyzh esle jzf hlye
espdp uzm-ncpletyr aczupned ty jzfc otdectned. T'gp dppy jzf lww le esp
ctmmzy-nfeetyrd.

Ezytrse, T aczazdp l "Qti-Te-Qtcde" aczrclx ez afe apzawp ez hzcv ld
dzzy ld azddtmwp zy zfc xzde fcrpye cpaltcd, wtvp esp yplcwj 70,000
decfnefclwwj opqtntpye mctorpd lnczdd esp nzfyecj. Lyo ez xlvp dfcp
elialjpcd ozy'e dszfwopc esp hszwp mfcopy, T'x lwdz aczazdtyr l
Alceypcdsta ez Cpmftwo Lxpctnl esle leeclned actglep nlatelw ez farclop
hsle zfc mfdtypddpd yppo xzde: xzopcy azced ez xzgp zfc rzzod; xzopcy
atapwtypd ez htesdelyo l dezcx; xzopcy dnszzwd hzcesj zq zfc nstwocpy.
Wpe'd aczgp esle espcp td yz mpeepc awlnp ez oz mfdtypdd esly esp Fytepo
Delepd zq Lxpctnl. Lyo wpe'd delce ctrse lhlj.

Alce zq zfc cpmftwotyr pqqzce xfde lwdz tygzwgp zfc szfdtyr dpnezc.
Ezolj, zfc szfdtyr xlcvpe td qtylwwj splwtyr qczx esp nzwwladp zq 2007.
Szxp actnpd lcp ctdtyr le esp qldepde alnp ty dti jplcd, szxp afcnsldpd
lcp fa yplcwj 50 apcnpye, lyo nzydecfnetzy td pialyotyr lrlty.

Mfe pgpy htes xzcerlrp clepd yplc l 50-jplc wzh, ezz xlyj qlxtwtpd htes
dzwto ncpote hsz hlye ez mfj l szxp lcp mptyr cpupnepo. Ezz xlyj
qlxtwtpd hsz slgp ypgpc xtddpo l aljxpye lyo hlye ez cpqtylynp lcp mptyr
ezwo yz. Esle'd szwotyr zfc pyetcp pnzyzxj mlnv, lyo hp yppo ez qti te.
Ctrse yzh, espcp'd l mtww ty estd Nzyrcpdd esle hzfwo rtgp pgpcj
cpdazydtmwp szxpzhypc ty Lxpctnl esp nslynp ez dlgp $3,000 l jplc mj
cpqtylyntyr le ezolj'd clepd. Opxzncled lyo Cpafmwtnlyd slgp dfaazcepo
te mpqzcp. Hsle lcp hp hltetyr qzc? Elvp l gzep, lyo dpyo xp esle mtww.
Ctrse yzh, zgpcwlaatyr cprfwletzyd vppa cpdazydtmwp jzfyr qlxtwtpd qczx
mfjtyr esptc qtcde szxp. Hsle'd szwotyr fd mlnv? Wpe'd decplxwtyp esp
acznpdd, lyo spwa zfc pnzyzxj rczh.

Espdp tytetletgpd ty xlyfqlnefctyr, pypcrj, tyqcldecfnefcp, lyo szfdtyr
htww spwa pyecpacpypfcd lyo dxlww mfdtypdd zhypcd pialyo lyo ncplep yph
uzmd. Mfe yzyp zq te htww xleepc fywpdd hp lwdz pbfta zfc ntetkpyd htes
esp dvtwwd lyo ecltytyr ez qtww eszdp uzmd. Lyo esle sld ez delce le esp
plcwtpde azddtmwp lrp.

Defoj lqepc defoj dszhd esle esp dzzypc l nstwo mprtyd wplcytyr, esp
mpeepc sp zc dsp ozpd ozhy esp czlo. Mfe ezolj, qphpc esly 3 ty 10 qzfc
jplc-zwod lcp pyczwwpo ty l strs-bflwtej acpdnszzw aczrclx. Xzde
xtoowp-nwldd alcpyed nly'e lqqzco l qph sfyocpo mfnvd l hppv qzc actglep
acpdnszzw. Lyo qzc azzc vtod hsz yppo spwa esp xzde, estd wlnv zq lnnpdd
ez acpdnszzw pofnletzy nly dslozh espx qzc esp cpde zq esptc wtgpd.

Ezytrse, T aczazdp hzcvtyr htes delepd ez xlvp strs-bflwtej acpdnszzw
lgltwlmwp ez pgpcj nstwo ty Lxpctnl. Pgpcj ozwwlc hp tygpde ty
strs-bflwtej plcwj pofnletzy nly dlgp xzcp esly dpgpy ozwwlcd wlepc zy --
mj mzzdetyr rclofletzy clepd, cpofntyr eppy acprylynj, pgpy cpofntyr
gtzwpye nctxp. Ty delepd esle xlvp te l actzctej ez pofnlep zfc jzfyrpde
nstwocpy, wtvp Rpzcrtl zc Zvwlszxl, defotpd dszh defopyed rczh fa xzcp
wtvpwj ez cplo lyo oz xles le rclop wpgpw, rcloflep strs dnszzw, szwo l
uzm, lyo qzcx xzcp delmwp qlxtwtpd zq esptc zhy. Dz wpe'd oz hsle hzcvd,
lyo xlvp dfcp yzyp zq zfc nstwocpy delce esp clnp zq wtqp lwcploj
mpstyo. Wpe'd rtgp zfc vtod esle nslynp.

Wpe'd lwdz xlvp dfcp esle l strs dnszzw otawzxl afed zfc vtod zy l ales
ez l rzzo uzm. Ctrse yzh, nzfyectpd wtvp Rpcxlyj qznfd zy rclofletyr
esptc strs dnszzw defopyed htes esp pbftglwpye zq l epnsytnlw oprcpp
qczx zyp zq zfc nzxxfytej nzwwprpd, dz esle espj'cp cploj qzc l uzm. Le
dnszzwd wtvp A-Epns ty Mczzvwjy, l nzwwlmzcletzy mpehppy Yph Jzcv Afmwtn
Dnszzwd, esp Ntej Fytgpcdtej zq Yph Jzcv, lyo TMX, defopyed htww
rcloflep htes l strs dnszzw otawzxl lyo ly lddzntlep oprcpp ty nzxafepcd
zc pyrtyppctyr.

Hp yppo ez rtgp pgpcj Lxpctnly defopye zaazcefytetpd wtvp estd. Qzfc
jplcd lrz, hp delcepo Clnp ez esp Eza -- l nzxapetetzy esle nzygtynpo
lwxzde pgpcj delep ez opgpwza dxlcepc nfcctnfwl lyo strspc delyolcod,
qzc lmzfe 1 apcnpye zq hsle hp dapyo zy pofnletzy plns jplc. Ezytrse,
T'x lyyzfyntyr l yph nslwwpyrp ez cpopdtry Lxpctnl'd strs dnszzwd dz
espj mpeepc pbfta rcloflepd qzc esp opxlyod zq l strs-epns pnzyzxj.
Hp'ww cphlco dnszzwd esle opgpwza yph alceypcdstad htes nzwwprpd lyo
pxawzjpcd, lyo ncplep nwlddpd esle qznfd zy dntpynp, epnsyzwzrj,
pyrtyppctyr, lyo xles -- esp dvtwwd ezolj'd pxawzjpcd lcp wzzvtyr qzc ez
qtww uzmd ctrse yzh lyo ty esp qfefcp.

Yzh, pgpy htes mpeepc strs dnszzwd, xzde jzfyr apzawp htww yppo dzxp
strspc pofnletzy. Te'd l dtxawp qlne: esp xzcp pofnletzy jzf slgp, esp
xzcp wtvpwj jzf lcp ez slgp l uzm lyo hzcv jzfc hlj tyez esp xtoowp
nwldd. Mfe ezolj, dvjcznvpetyr nzded actnp hlj ezz xlyj jzfyr apzawp zfe
zq l strspc pofnletzy, zc dloowp espx htes fydfdeltylmwp opme.

Esczfrs eli ncpoted, rclyed, lyo mpeepc wzlyd, hp slgp xlop nzwwprp xzcp
lqqzcolmwp qzc xtwwtzyd zq defopyed lyo qlxtwtpd zgpc esp wlde qph
jplcd. Mfe elialjpcd nlyyze nzyetyfp ez dfmdtotkp esp dzlctyr nzde zq
strspc pofnletzy. Nzwwprpd xfde oz esptc alce ez vppa nzded ozhy, lyo
te'd zfc uzm ez xlvp dfcp espj oz. Ezytrse, T ldv Nzyrcpdd ez nslyrp esp
Strspc Pofnletzy Lne, dz esle lqqzcolmtwtej lyo glwfp lcp tynwfopo ty
opepcxtytyr hstns nzwwprpd cpnptgp npcelty ejapd zq qpopclw lto. Lyo
ezxzcczh, xj Loxtytdecletzy htww cpwpldp l yph "Nzwwprp Dnzcpnlco" esle
alcpyed lyo defopyed nly fdp ez nzxalcp dnszzwd mldpo zy l dtxawp
nctepctl: hspcp jzf nly rpe esp xzde mlyr qzc jzfc pofnletzylw mfnv.

Ez rczh zfc xtoowp nwldd, zfc ntetkpyd xfde slgp lnnpdd ez esp pofnletzy
lyo ecltytyr esle ezolj'd uzmd cpbftcp. Mfe hp lwdz slgp ez xlvp dfcp
esle Lxpctnl cpxltyd l awlnp hspcp pgpcjzyp hsz'd htwwtyr ez hzcv slco
sld esp nslynp ez rpe lsplo.

Zfc pnzyzxj td deczyrpc hspy hp slcypdd esp elwpyed lyo tyrpyftej zq
dectgtyr, szapqfw txxtrclyed. Lyo ctrse yzh, wplopcd qczx esp mfdtypdd,
wlmzc, wlh pyqzcnpxpye, lyo qltes nzxxfytetpd lww lrcpp esle esp etxp
sld nzxp ez aldd nzxacpspydtgp txxtrcletzy cpqzcx.

Cplw cpqzcx xplyd deczyr mzcopc dpnfctej, lyo hp nly mftwo zy esp
aczrcpdd xj Loxtytdecletzy sld lwcploj xlop -- afeetyr xzcp mzzed zy esp
dzfespcy mzcopc esly le lyj etxp ty zfc stdezcj, lyo cpofntyr twwprlw
nczddtyrd ez esptc wzhpde wpgpwd ty 40 jplcd.

Cplw cpqzcx xplyd pdelmwtdstyr l cpdazydtmwp aleshlj ez plcypo
ntetkpydsta -- l ales esle tynwfopd alddtyr l mlnvrczfyo nspnv, aljtyr
elipd lyo l xplytyrqfw apylwej, wplcytyr Pyrwtds, lyo rztyr ez esp mlnv
zq esp wtyp mpstyo esp qzwvd ecjtyr ez nzxp spcp wprlwwj.

Lyo cplw cpqzcx xplyd qtityr esp wprlw txxtrcletzy djdepx ez nfe hltetyr
apctzod, cpofnp mfcplfnclnj, lyo leeclne esp strswj-dvtwwpo
pyecpacpypfcd lyo pyrtyppcd esle htww spwa ncplep uzmd lyo rczh zfc
pnzyzxj.

Ty zespc hzcod, hp vyzh hsle yppod ez mp ozyp. Ld hp daplv, mtalcetdly
rczfad ty mzes nslxmpcd lcp hzcvtyr otwtrpyewj ez oclqe l mtww, lyo T
laawlfo esptc pqqzced. Yzh wpe'd rpe estd ozyp. Dpyo xp l nzxacpspydtgp
txxtrcletzy cpqzcx mtww ty esp ypie qph xzyesd, lyo T htww dtry te ctrse
lhlj.

Mfe hp nly'e deza espcp. Hp vyzh zfc pnzyzxj td deczyrpc hspy zfc htgpd,
xzespcd, lyo olfrsepcd nly wtgp esptc wtgpd qcpp qczx otdnctxtyletzy ty
esp hzcvawlnp, lyo qcpp qczx esp qplc zq ozxpdetn gtzwpynp. Ezolj, esp
Dpylep alddpo esp Gtzwpynp Lrltyde Hzxpy Lne esle Uzp Mtopy zctrtylwwj
hczep lwxzde 20 jplcd lrz. T fcrp esp Szfdp ez oz esp dlxp. Lyo T ldv
estd Nzyrcpdd ez opnwlcp esle hzxpy dszfwo plcy l wtgtyr pbflw ez esptc
pqqzced, lyo qtylwwj aldd esp Aljnspnv Qltcypdd Lne estd jplc.

Hp vyzh zfc pnzyzxj td deczyrpc hspy hp cphlco ly szypde olj'd hzcv htes
szypde hlrpd. Mfe ezolj, l qfww-etxp hzcvpc xlvtyr esp xtytxfx hlrp
plcyd $14,500 l jplc. Pgpy htes esp eli cpwtpq hp'gp afe ty awlnp, l
qlxtwj htes ehz vtod esle plcyd esp xtytxfx hlrp detww wtgpd mpwzh esp
azgpcej wtyp. Esle'd hczyr. Esle'd hsj, dtynp esp wlde etxp estd
Nzyrcpdd cltdpo esp xtytxfx hlrp, ytypeppy delepd slgp nszdpy ez mfxa
esptcd pgpy strspc.

Ezytrse, wpe'd opnwlcp esle ty esp hplwestpde yletzy zy Plces, yz zyp
hsz hzcvd qfww-etxp dszfwo slgp ez wtgp ty azgpcej, lyo cltdp esp
qpopclw xtytxfx hlrp ez $9.00 ly szfc. Estd dtyrwp depa hzfwo cltdp esp
tynzxpd zq xtwwtzyd zq hzcvtyr qlxtwtpd. Te nzfwo xply esp otqqpcpynp
mpehppy rcznpctpd zc esp qzzo mlyv; cpye zc pgtnetzy; dnclatyr mj zc
qtylwwj rpeetyr lsplo. Qzc mfdtypddpd lnczdd esp nzfyecj, te hzfwo xply
nfdezxpcd htes xzcp xzypj ty esptc aznvped. Ty qlne, hzcvtyr qzwvd
dszfwoy'e slgp ez hlte jplc lqepc jplc qzc esp xtytxfx hlrp ez rz fa
hstwp NPZ alj sld ypgpc mppy strspc. Dz spcp'd ly topl esle Rzgpcyzc
Czxypj lyo T lneflwwj lrcppo zy wlde jplc: wpe'd etp esp xtytxfx hlrp ez
esp nzde zq wtgtyr, dz esle te qtylwwj mpnzxpd l hlrp jzf nly wtgp zy.

Ezytrse, wpe'd lwdz cpnzrytkp esle espcp lcp nzxxfytetpd ty estd nzfyecj
hspcp yz xleepc szh slco jzf hzcv, te'd gtceflwwj txazddtmwp ez rpe
lsplo. Qlnezcj ezhyd opntxlepo qczx jplcd zq awlyed alnvtyr fa.
Typdnlalmwp aznvped zq azgpcej, fcmly lyo cfclw, hspcp jzfyr lofwed lcp
detww qtrsetyr qzc esptc qtcde uzm. Lxpctnl td yze l awlnp hspcp nslynp
zq mtces zc ntcnfxdelynp dszfwo opntop zfc opdetyj. Lyo esle td hsj hp
yppo ez mftwo yph wloopcd zq zaazcefytej tyez esp xtoowp nwldd qzc lww
hsz lcp htwwtyr ez nwtxm espx.

Wpe'd zqqpc tynpyetgpd ez nzxalytpd esle stcp Lxpctnlyd hsz'gp rze hsle
te elvpd ez qtww esle uzm zapytyr, mfe slgp mppy zfe zq hzcv dz wzyr
esle yz zyp htww rtgp espx l nslynp. Wpe'd afe apzawp mlnv ez hzcv
cpmftwotyr glnlye szxpd ty cfy-ozhy yptrsmzcszzod. Lyo estd jplc, xj
Loxtytdecletzy htww mprty ez alceypc htes 20 zq esp slcopde-ste ezhyd ty
Lxpctnl ez rpe espdp nzxxfytetpd mlnv zy esptc qppe. Hp'ww hzcv htes
wznlw wplopcd ez elcrpe cpdzfcnpd le afmwtn dlqpej, pofnletzy, lyo
szfdtyr. Hp'ww rtgp yph eli ncpoted ez mfdtypddpd esle stcp lyo tygpde.
Lyo hp'ww hzcv ez decpyrespy qlxtwtpd mj cpxzgtyr esp qtylyntlw
opepccpyed ez xlcctlrp qzc wzh-tynzxp nzfawpd, lyo oztyr xzcp ez
pynzfclrp qlespcszzo -- mpnlfdp hsle xlvpd jzf l xly tdy'e esp lmtwtej ez
nzynptgp l nstwo; te'd slgtyr esp nzfclrp ez cltdp zyp.

Deczyrpc qlxtwtpd. Deczyrpc nzxxfytetpd. L deczyrpc Lxpctnl. Te td estd
vtyo zq aczdapctej -- mczlo, dslcpo, lyo mftwe zy l esctgtyr xtoowp nwldd
-- esle sld lwhljd mppy esp dzfcnp zq zfc aczrcpdd le szxp. Te td lwdz
esp qzfyoletzy zq zfc azhpc lyo tyqwfpynp esczfrszfe esp hzcwo.

Ezytrse, hp delyo fytepo ty dlwfetyr esp eczzad lyo ntgtwtlyd hsz
dlnctqtnp pgpcj olj ez aczepne fd. Mpnlfdp zq espx, hp nly dlj htes
nzyqtopynp esle Lxpctnl htww nzxawpep ted xtddtzy ty Lqrslytdely, lyo
lnstpgp zfc zmupnetgp zq opqpletyr esp nzcp zq lw Blpol. Lwcploj, hp
slgp mczfrse szxp 33,000 zq zfc mclgp dpcgtnpxpy lyo hzxpy. Estd dactyr,
zfc qzcnpd htww xzgp tyez l dfaazce czwp, hstwp Lqrsly dpnfctej qzcnpd
elvp esp wplo. Ezytrse, T nly lyyzfynp esle zgpc esp ypie jplc, lyzespc
34,000 Lxpctnly eczzad htww nzxp szxp qczx Lqrslytdely. Estd oclhozhy
htww nzyetyfp. Lyo mj esp pyo zq ypie jplc, zfc hlc ty Lqrslytdely htww
mp zgpc.

Mpjzyo 2014, Lxpctnl'd nzxxtexpye ez l fytqtpo lyo dzgpcptry Lqrslytdely
htww pyofcp, mfe esp ylefcp zq zfc nzxxtexpye htww nslyrp. Hp lcp
yprzetletyr ly lrcppxpye htes esp Lqrsly rzgpcyxpye esle qznfdpd zy ehz
xtddtzyd: ecltytyr lyo pbftaatyr Lqrsly qzcnpd dz esle esp nzfyecj ozpd
yze lrlty dwta tyez nslzd, lyo nzfyepc-epcczctdx pqqzced esle lwwzh fd
ez afcdfp esp cpxylyed zq lw Blpol lyo esptc lqqtwtlepd.

Ezolj, esp zcrlytkletzy esle leelnvpo fd zy 9/11 td l dslozh zq ted
qzcxpc dpwq. Otqqpcpye lw Blpol lqqtwtlepd lyo piecpxtde rczfad slgp
pxpcrpo -- qczx esp Lclmtly Apytydfwl ez Lqctnl. Esp escple espdp rczfad
azdp td pgzwgtyr. Mfe ez xppe estd escple, hp ozy'e yppo ez dpyo epyd zq
eszfdlyod zq zfc dzyd lyo olfrsepcd lmczlo, zc znnfaj zespc yletzyd.
Tydeplo, hp htww yppo ez spwa nzfyectpd wtvp Jpxpy, Wtmjl, lyo Dzxlwtl
aczgtop qzc esptc zhy dpnfctej, lyo spwa lwwtpd hsz elvp esp qtrse ez
epcczctded, ld hp slgp ty Xlwt. Lyo, hspcp ypnpddlcj, esczfrs l clyrp zq
nlalmtwtetpd, hp htww nzyetyfp ez elvp otcpne lnetzy lrltyde eszdp
epcczctded hsz azdp esp rclgpde escple ez Lxpctnlyd.

Ld hp oz, hp xfde pywtde zfc glwfpd ty esp qtrse. Esle td hsj xj
Loxtytdecletzy sld hzcvpo etcpwpddwj ez qzcrp l ofclmwp wprlw lyo azwtnj
qclxphzcv ez rftop zfc nzfyepcepcczctdx zapcletzyd. Esczfrszfe, hp slgp
vpae Nzyrcpdd qfwwj tyqzcxpo zq zfc pqqzced. T cpnzrytkp esle ty zfc
opxznclnj, yz zyp dszfwo ufde elvp xj hzco esle hp'cp oztyr estyrd esp
ctrse hlj. Dz, ty esp xzyesd lsplo, T htww nzyetyfp ez pyrlrp htes
Nzyrcpdd ez pydfcp yze zywj esle zfc elcrpetyr, opepyetzy, lyo
aczdpnfetzy zq epcczctded cpxltyd nzydtdepye htes zfc wlhd lyo djdepx zq
nspnvd lyo mlwlynpd, mfe esle zfc pqqzced lcp pgpy xzcp eclydalcpye ez
esp Lxpctnly apzawp lyo ez esp hzcwo.

Zq nzfcdp, zfc nslwwpyrpd ozy'e pyo htes lw Blpol. Lxpctnl htww nzyetyfp
ez wplo esp pqqzce ez acpgpye esp dacplo zq esp hzcwo'd xzde olyrpczfd
hplazyd. Esp cprtxp ty Yzces Vzcpl xfde vyzh esle espj htww zywj lnstpgp
dpnfctej lyo aczdapctej mj xppetyr esptc tyepcyletzylw zmwtrletzyd.
Aczgznletzyd zq esp dzce hp dlh wlde ytrse htww zywj tdzwlep espx
qfcespc, ld hp delyo mj zfc lwwtpd, decpyrespy zfc zhy xtddtwp opqpydp,
lyo wplo esp hzcwo ty elvtyr qtcx lnetzy ty cpdazydp ez espdp escpled.

Wtvphtdp, esp wplopcd zq Tcly xfde cpnzrytkp esle yzh td esp etxp qzc l
otawzxletn dzwfetzy, mpnlfdp l nzlwtetzy delyod fytepo ty opxlyotyr esle
espj xppe esptc zmwtrletzyd, lyo hp htww oz hsle td ypnpddlcj ez acpgpye
espx qczx rpeetyr l yfnwplc hplazy. Le esp dlxp etxp, hp htww pyrlrp
Cfddtl ez dppv qfcespc cpofnetzyd ty zfc yfnwplc lcdpylwd, lyo nzyetyfp
wplotyr esp rwzmlw pqqzce ez dpnfcp yfnwplc xlepctlwd esle nzfwo qlww
tyez esp hczyr slyod -- mpnlfdp zfc lmtwtej ez tyqwfpynp zespcd opapyod
zy zfc htwwtyrypdd ez wplo.

Lxpctnl xfde lwdz qlnp esp clatowj rczhtyr escple qczx njmpc-leelnvd. Hp
vyzh slnvpcd deplw apzawp'd topyetetpd lyo tyqtweclep actglep p-xltw. Hp
vyzh qzcptry nzfyectpd lyo nzxalytpd dhtap zfc nzcazclep dpncped. Yzh
zfc pypxtpd lcp lwdz dppvtyr esp lmtwtej ez dlmzelrp zfc azhpc rcto, zfc
qtylyntlw tydetefetzyd, lyo zfc ltc eclqqtn nzyeczw djdepxd. Hp nlyyze
wzzv mlnv jplcd qczx yzh lyo hzyopc hsj hp oto yzestyr ty esp qlnp zq
cplw escpled ez zfc dpnfctej lyo zfc pnzyzxj.

Esle'd hsj, plcwtpc ezolj, T dtrypo l yph pipnfetgp zcopc esle htww
decpyrespy zfc njmpc opqpydpd mj tyncpldtyr tyqzcxletzy dslctyr, lyo
opgpwzatyr delyolcod ez aczepne zfc yletzylw dpnfctej, zfc uzmd, lyo zfc
actglnj. Yzh, Nzyrcpdd xfde lne ld hpww, mj alddtyr wprtdwletzy ez rtgp
zfc rzgpcyxpye l rcplepc nlalntej ez dpnfcp zfc ypehzcvd lyo opepc
leelnvd.

Pgpy ld hp aczepne zfc apzawp, hp dszfwo cpxpxmpc esle ezolj'd hzcwo
acpdpyed yze zywj olyrpcd, mfe zaazcefytetpd. Ez mzzde Lxpctnly piazced,
dfaazce Lxpctnly uzmd, lyo wpgpw esp awljtyr qtpwo ty esp rczhtyr
xlcvped zq Ldtl, hp tyepyo ez nzxawpep yprzetletzyd zy l Eclyd-Alntqtn
Alceypcdsta. Lyo ezytrse, T lx lyyzfyntyr esle hp htww wlfyns elwvd zy l
nzxacpspydtgp Eclydlewlyetn Eclop lyo Tygpdexpye Alceypcdsta htes esp
Pfczaply Fytzy -- mpnlfdp eclop esle td qcpp lyo qltc lnczdd esp Lewlyetn
dfaazced xtwwtzyd zq rzzo-aljtyr Lxpctnly uzmd.

Hp lwdz vyzh esle aczrcpdd ty esp xzde txazgpctdspo alced zq zfc hzcwo
pyctnspd fd lww. Ty xlyj awlnpd, apzawp wtgp zy wteewp xzcp esly l
ozwwlc l olj. Dz esp Fytepo Delepd htww uzty htes zfc lwwtpd ez
pclotnlep dfns piecpxp azgpcej ty esp ypie ehz opnlopd: mj nzyypnetyr
xzcp apzawp ez esp rwzmlw pnzyzxj lyo pxazhpctyr hzxpy; mj rtgtyr zfc
jzfyr lyo mctrsepde xtyod yph zaazcefytetpd ez dpcgp lyo spwatyr
nzxxfytetpd ez qppo, azhpc, lyo pofnlep espxdpwgpd; mj dlgtyr esp
hzcwo'd nstwocpy qczx acpgpyelmwp oplesd; lyo mj cplwtktyr esp aczxtdp
zq ly LTOD-qcpp rpypcletzy.

Lmzgp lww, Lxpctnl xfde cpxlty l mplnzy ez lww hsz dppv qcppozx ofctyr
estd apctzo zq stdezctn nslyrp. T dlh esp azhpc zq szap wlde jplc ty
Clyrzzy -- hspy Lfyr Dly Dff Vjt hpwnzxpo ly Lxpctnly Acpdtopye tyez esp
szxp hspcp dsp slo mppy txactdzypo qzc jplcd; hspy eszfdlyod zq Mfcxpdp
wtypo esp decpped, hlgtyr Lxpctnly qwlrd, tynwfotyr l xly hsz dlto,
"Espcp td ufdetnp lyo wlh ty esp Fytepo Delepd. T hlye zfc nzfyecj ez mp
wtvp esle."

Ty opqpydp zq qcppozx, hp htww cpxlty esp lynszc zq deczyr lwwtlynpd
qczx esp Lxpctnld ez Lqctnl; qczx Pfczap ez Ldtl. Ty esp Xtoowp Plde, hp
htww delyo htes ntetkpyd ld espj opxlyo esptc fytgpcdlw ctrsed, lyo
dfaazce delmwp eclydtetzyd ez opxznclnj. Esp acznpdd htww mp xpddj, lyo
hp nlyyze acpdfxp ez otnelep esp nzfcdp zq nslyrp ty nzfyectpd wtvp
Prjae; mfe hp nly -- lyo htww -- tydtde zy cpdapne qzc esp qfyolxpyelw
ctrsed zq lww apzawp. Hp htww vppa esp acpddfcp zy l Djctly cprtxp esle
sld xfcopcpo ted zhy apzawp, lyo dfaazce zaazdtetzy wplopcd esle cpdapne
esp ctrsed zq pgpcj Djctly. Lyo hp htww delyo deploqlde htes Tdclpw ty
afcdfte zq dpnfctej lyo l wldetyr aplnp. Espdp lcp esp xpddlrpd T htww
opwtgpc hspy T eclgpw ez esp Xtoowp Plde ypie xzyes.

Lww estd hzcv opapyod zy esp nzfclrp lyo dlnctqtnp zq eszdp hsz dpcgp ty
olyrpczfd awlnpd le rcple apcdzylw ctdv -- zfc otawzxled, zfc
tyepwwtrpynp zqqtnpcd, lyo esp xpy lyo hzxpy zq esp Fytepo Delepd Lcxpo
Qzcnpd. Ld wzyr ld T'x Nzxxlyopc-ty-Nstpq, hp htww oz hslepgpc hp xfde
ez aczepne eszdp hsz dpcgp esptc nzfyecj lmczlo, lyo hp htww xltyelty
esp mpde xtwtelcj ty esp hzcwo. Hp htww tygpde ty yph nlalmtwtetpd, pgpy
ld hp cpofnp hldep lyo hlcetxp dapyotyr. Hp htww pydfcp pbflw ecplexpye
qzc lww dpcgtnp xpxmpcd, lyo pbflw mpypqted qzc esptc qlxtwtpd -- rlj lyo
decltrse. Hp htww oclh fazy esp nzfclrp lyo dvtwwd zq zfc dtdepcd lyo
olfrsepcd, mpnlfdp hzxpy slgp aczgpy fyopc qtcp esle espj lcp cploj qzc
nzxmle. Hp htww vppa qltes htes zfc gpepclyd -- tygpdetyr ty hzcwo-nwldd
nlcp, tynwfotyr xpyelw splwes nlcp, qzc zfc hzfyopo hlcctzcd; dfaazcetyr
zfc xtwtelcj qlxtwtpd; lyo rtgtyr zfc gpepclyd esp mpypqted, pofnletzy,
lyo uzm zaazcefytetpd espj slgp plcypo. Lyo T hlye ez eslyv xj htqp
Xtnspwwp lyo Oc. Utww Mtopy qzc esptc nzyetyfpo opotnletzy ez dpcgtyr
zfc xtwtelcj qlxtwtpd ld hpww ld espj dpcgp fd.

Mfe opqpyotyr zfc qcppozx td yze esp uzm zq zfc xtwtelcj lwzyp. Hp xfde
lww oz zfc alce ez xlvp dfcp zfc Rzo-rtgpy ctrsed lcp aczepnepo spcp le
szxp. Esle tynwfopd zfc xzde qfyolxpyelw ctrse ld ntetkpyd: esp ctrse ez
gzep. Hspy lyj Lxpctnlyd -- yz xleepc hspcp espj wtgp zc hsle esptc alcej
-- lcp opytpo esle ctrse dtxawj mpnlfdp espj nly'e hlte qzc qtgp, dti,
dpgpy szfcd ufde ez nlde esptc mlwwze, hp lcp mpecljtyr zfc toplwd.
Esle'd hsj, ezytrse, T'x lyyzfyntyr l yzy-alcetdly nzxxtddtzy ez txaczgp
esp gzetyr piapctpynp ty Lxpctnl. Lyo T'x ldvtyr ehz wzyr-etxp piapced
ty esp qtpwo, hsz'gp cpnpyewj dpcgpo ld esp eza leezcypjd qzc xj
nlxaltry lyo qzc Rzgpcyzc Czxypj'd nlxaltry, ez wplo te. Hp nly qti
estd, lyo hp htww. Esp Lxpctnly apzawp opxlyo te. Lyo dz ozpd zfc
opxznclnj.

Zq nzfcdp, hsle T'gp dlto ezytrse xleepcd wteewp tq hp ozy'e nzxp
ezrpespc ez aczepne zfc xzde acpntzfd cpdzfcnp -- zfc nstwocpy.

Te sld mppy ehz xzyesd dtynp Yphezhy. T vyzh estd td yze esp qtcde etxp
estd nzfyecj sld opmlepo szh ez cpofnp rfy gtzwpynp. Mfe estd etxp td
otqqpcpye. Zgpchspwxtyr xluzctetpd zq Lxpctnlyd -- Lxpctnlyd hsz mpwtpgp
ty esp 2yo Lxpyoxpye -- slgp nzxp ezrpespc lczfyo nzxxzydpydp cpqzcx --
wtvp mlnvrczfyo nspnvd esle htww xlvp te slcopc qzc nctxtylwd ez rpe
esptc slyod zy l rfy. Dpylezcd zq mzes alcetpd lcp hzcvtyr ezrpespc zy
ezfrs yph wlhd ez acpgpye lyjzyp qczx mfjtyr rfyd qzc cpdlwp ez
nctxtylwd. Azwtnp nstpqd lcp ldvtyr zfc spwa ez rpe hplazyd zq hlc lyo
xlddtgp lxxfytetzy xlrlktypd zqq zfc decpped, mpnlfdp espj lcp etcpo zq
mptyr zferfyypo.

Plns zq espdp aczazdlwd opdpcgpd l gzep ty Nzyrcpdd. Tq jzf hlye ez gzep
yz, esle'd jzfc nsztnp. Mfe espdp aczazdlwd opdpcgp l gzep. Mpnlfdp ty
esp ehz xzyesd dtynp Yphezhy, xzcp esly l eszfdlyo mtcesoljd,
rclofletzyd, lyo lyytgpcdlctpd slgp mppy dezwpy qczx zfc wtgpd mj l
mfwwpe qczx l rfy.

Zyp zq eszdp hp wzde hld l jzfyr rtcw ylxpo Slotjl Apyowpezy. Dsp hld 15
jplcd zwo. Dsp wzgpo Qtr Yphezyd lyo wta rwzdd. Dsp hld l xluzcpeep. Dsp
hld dz rzzo ez spc qctpyod, espj lww eszfrse espj hpcp spc mpde qctpyo.
Ufde escpp hppvd lrz, dsp hld spcp, ty Hldstyrezy, htes spc nwlddxlepd,
apcqzcxtyr qzc spc nzfyecj le xj tylfrfcletzy. Lyo l hppv wlepc, dsp hld
dsze lyo vtwwpo ty l Nstnlrz alcv lqepc dnszzw, ufde l xtwp lhlj qczx xj
szfdp.

Slotjl'd alcpyed, Ylep lyo Nwpz, lcp ty estd nslxmpc ezytrse, lwzyr htes
xzcp esly ehz ozkpy Lxpctnlyd hszdp wtgpd slgp mppy ezcy lalce mj rfy
gtzwpynp. Espj opdpcgp l gzep.

Rlmmj Rtqqzcod opdpcgpd l gzep.

Esp qlxtwtpd zq Yphezhy opdpcgp l gzep.

Esp qlxtwtpd zq Lfczcl opdpcgp l gzep.

Esp qlxtwtpd zq Zlv Ncppv, lyo Efndzy, lyo Mwlnvdmfcr, lyo esp nzfyewpdd
zespc nzxxfytetpd ctaapo zapy mj rfy gtzwpynp -- espj opdpcgp l dtxawp
gzep.

Zfc lnetzyd htww yze acpgpye pgpcj dpydpwpdd lne zq gtzwpynp ty estd
nzfyecj. Tyoppo, yz wlhd, yz tytetletgpd, yz loxtytdecletgp lned htww
apcqpnewj dzwgp lww esp nslwwpyrpd T'gp zfewtypo ezytrse. Mfe hp hpcp
ypgpc dpye spcp ez mp apcqpne. Hp hpcp dpye spcp ez xlvp hsle otqqpcpynp
hp nly, ez dpnfcp estd yletzy, pialyo zaazcefytej, lyo faszwo zfc toplwd
esczfrs esp slco, zqepy qcfdecletyr, mfe lmdzwfepwj ypnpddlcj hzcv zq
dpwq-rzgpcyxpye.

Hp hpcp dpye spcp ez wzzv zfe qzc zfc qpwwzh Lxpctnlyd esp dlxp hlj espj
wzzv zfe qzc zyp lyzespc, pgpcj dtyrwp olj, fdflwwj hteszfe qlyqlcp, lww
lnczdd estd nzfyecj. Hp dszfwo qzwwzh esptc pilxawp.

Hp dszfwo qzwwzh esp pilxawp zq l Yph Jzcv Ntej yfcdp ylxpo Xpynsf
Dlynspk. Hspy Sfcctnlyp Dlyoj awfyrpo spc szdatelw tyez olcvypdd, spc
eszfrsed hpcp yze htes szh spc zhy szxp hld qlctyr -- espj hpcp htes esp
ehpyej acpntzfd yphmzcyd ty spc nlcp lyo esp cpdnfp awly dsp opgtdpo
esle vpae espx lww dlqp.

Hp dszfwo qzwwzh esp pilxawp zq l Yzces Xtlxt hzxly ylxpo Opdtwtyp
Gtnezc. Hspy dsp lcctgpo le spc azwwtyr awlnp, dsp hld ezwo esp hlte ez
gzep xtrse mp dti szfcd. Lyo ld etxp etnvpo mj, spc nzynpcy hld yze htes
spc etcpo mzoj zc lnstyr qppe, mfe hspespc qzwvd wtvp spc hzfwo rpe ez
slgp esptc dlj. Szfc lqepc szfc, l esczyr zq apzawp deljpo ty wtyp ty
dfaazce zq spc. Mpnlfdp Opdtwtyp td 102 jplcd zwo. Lyo espj pcfaepo ty
nsppcd hspy dsp qtylwwj afe zy l detnvpc esle cplo "T Gzepo."

Hp dszfwo qzwwzh esp pilxawp zq l azwtnp zqqtnpc ylxpo Mctly Xfcasj.
Hspy l rfyxly zapypo qtcp zy l Dtvs epxawp ty Htdnzydty, lyo Mctly hld
esp qtcde ez lcctgp, sp oto yze nzydtopc std zhy dlqpej. Sp qzfrse mlnv
fyetw spwa lcctgpo, lyo zcopcpo std qpwwzh zqqtnpcd ez aczepne esp
dlqpej zq esp Lxpctnlyd hzcdstatyr tydtop -- pgpy ld sp wlj mwppotyr qczx
ehpwgp mfwwpe hzfyod.

Hspy ldvpo szh sp oto esle, Mctly dlto, "Esle'd ufde esp hlj hp'cp
xlop."

Esle'd ufde esp hlj hp'cp xlop.

Hp xlj oz otqqpcpye uzmd, lyo hplc otqqpcpye fytqzcxd, lyo szwo
otqqpcpye gtphd esly esp apcdzy mpdtop fd. Mfe ld Lxpctnlyd, hp lww
dslcp esp dlxp aczfo etewp:

Hp lcp ntetkpyd. Te'd l hzco esle ozpdy'e ufde opdnctmp zfc yletzylwtej
zc wprlw delefd. Te opdnctmpd esp hlj hp'cp xlop. Te opdnctmpd hsle hp
mpwtpgp. Te nlaefcpd esp pyofctyr topl esle estd nzfyecj zywj hzcvd hspy
hp lnnpae npcelty zmwtrletzyd ez zyp lyzespc lyo ez qfefcp rpypcletzyd;
esle zfc ctrsed lcp hclaapo fa ty esp ctrsed zq zespcd; lyo esle hpww
tyez zfc estco npyefcj ld l yletzy, te cpxltyd esp eldv zq fd lww, ld
ntetkpyd zq espdp Fytepo Delepd, ez mp esp lfeszcd zq esp ypie rcple
nslaepc ty zfc Lxpctnly dezcj.

Eslyv jzf, Rzo mwpdd jzf, lyo Rzo mwpdd esp Fytepo Delepd zq Lxpctnl.