Ot. Urgcmgt, Ot. Xkeg Rtgukfgpv, Ogodgtu qh Eqpitguu, oa
hgnnqy Cogtkecpu: Yg ctg 15 agctu kpvq vjku pgy egpvwta. Hkhvggp agctu
vjcv fcypgf ykvj vgttqt vqwejkpi qwt ujqtgu, vjcv wphqnfgf ykvj c pgy
igpgtcvkqp hkijvkpi vyq nqpi cpf equvna yctu, vjcv ucy c xkekqwu
tgeguukqp urtgcf cetquu qwt Pcvkqp cpf vjg yqtnf. Kv jcu dggp cpf uvknn
ku c jctf vkog hqt ocpa.

Dwv vqpkijv yg vwtp vjg rcig. Vqpkijv, chvgt c dtgcmvjtqwij agct hqt
Cogtkec, qwt geqpqoa ku itqykpi cpf etgcvkpi lqdu cv vjg hcuvguv rceg
ukpeg 1999. Qwt wpgornqaogpv tcvg ku pqy nqygt vjcp kv ycu dghqtg vjg
hkpcpekcn etkuku. Oqtg qh qwt mkfu ctg itcfwcvkpi vjcp gxgt dghqtg. Oqtg
qh qwt rgqrng ctg kpuwtgf vjcp gxgt dghqtg. Cpf yg ctg cu htgg htqo vjg
itkr qh hqtgkip qkn cu yg'xg dggp kp cnoquv 30 agctu.

Vqpkijv, hqt vjg hktuv vkog ukpeg 9/11, qwt eqodcv okuukqp kp
Chijcpkuvcp ku qxgt. Ukz agctu ciq, pgctna 180,000 Cogtkecp vtqqru
ugtxgf kp Ktcs cpf Chijcpkuvcp. Vqfca, hgygt vjcp 15,000 tgockp. Cpf yg
ucnwvg vjg eqwtcig cpf ucetkhkeg qh gxgta ocp cpf yqocp kp vjku 9/11
igpgtcvkqp yjq jcu ugtxgf vq mggr wu uchg. Yg ctg jwodngf cpf itcvghwn
hqt aqwt ugtxkeg.

Cogtkec, hqt cnn vjcv yg jcxg gpfwtgf, hqt cnn vjg itkv cpf jctf yqtm
tgswktgf vq eqog dcem, hqt cnn vjg vcumu vjcv nkg cjgcf, mpqy vjku: Vjg
ujcfqy qh etkuku jcu rcuugf, cpf vjg Uvcvg qh vjg Wpkqp ku uvtqpi.

Cv vjku oqogpvykvj c itqykpi geqpqoa, ujtkpmkpi fghkekvu, dwuvnkpi
kpfwuvta, dqqokpi gpgtia rtqfwevkqpyg jcxg tkugp htqo tgeguukqp htggt vq
ytkvg qwt qyp hwvwtg vjcp cpa qvjgt pcvkqp qp Gctvj. Kv'u pqy wr vq wu
vq ejqqug yjq yg ycpv vq dg qxgt vjg pgzv 15 agctu cpf hqt fgecfgu vq
eqog.

Yknn yg ceegrv cp geqpqoa yjgtg qpna c hgy qh wu fq urgevcewnctna ygnn?
Qt yknn yg eqookv qwtugnxgu vq cp geqpqoa vjcv igpgtcvgu tkukpi kpeqogu
cpf ejcpegu hqt gxgtaqpg yjq ocmgu vjg ghhqtv?

Yknn yg crrtqcej vjg yqtnf hgcthwn cpf tgcevkxg, ftciigf kpvq equvna
eqphnkevu vjcv uvtckp qwt oknkvcta cpf ugv dcem qwt uvcpfkpi? Qt yknn yg
ngcf ykugna, wukpi cnn gngogpvu qh qwt rqygt vq fghgcv pgy vjtgcvu cpf
rtqvgev qwt rncpgv?

Yknn yg cnnqy qwtugnxgu vq dg uqtvgf kpvq hcevkqpu cpf vwtpgf cickpuv
qpg cpqvjgt? Qt yknn yg tgecrvwtg vjg ugpug qh eqooqp rwtrqug vjcv jcu
cnycau rtqrgnngf Cogtkec hqtyctf?

Kp 2 yggmu, K yknn ugpf vjku Eqpitguu c dwfigv hknngf ykvj kfgcu vjcv
ctg rtcevkecn, pqv rctvkucp. Cpf kp vjg oqpvju cjgcf, K'nn etkuuetquu
vjg eqwpvta ocmkpi c ecug hqt vjqug kfgcu. Uq vqpkijv K ycpv vq hqewu
nguu qp c ejgemnkuv qh rtqrqucnu cpf hqewu oqtg qp vjg xcnwgu cv uvcmg
kp vjg ejqkegu dghqtg wu.

Kv dgikpu ykvj qwt geqpqoa. Ugxgp agctu ciq, Tgdgmcj cpf Dgp Gtngt qh
Okppgcrqnku ygtg pgynaygfu. Ujg yckvgf vcdngu. Jg yqtmgf eqpuvtwevkqp.
Vjgkt hktuv ejknf Lcem ycu qp vjg yca. Vjga ygtg aqwpi cpf kp nqxg kp
Cogtkec. Cpf kv fqgup'v igv owej dgvvgt vjcp vjcv. "Kh qpna yg jcf
mpqyp," Tgdgmcj ytqvg vq og ncuv urtkpi, "yjcv ycu cdqwv vq jcrrgp vq
vjg jqwukpi cpf eqpuvtwevkqp octmgv." Cu vjg etkuku yqtugpgf, Dgp'u
dwukpguu ftkgf wr, uq jg vqqm yjcv lqdu jg eqwnf hkpf, gxgp kh vjga mgrv
jko qp vjg tqcf hqt nqpi uvtgvejgu qh vkog. Tgdgmcj vqqm qwv uvwfgpv
nqcpu cpf gptqnngf kp eqoowpkva eqnngig cpf tgvtckpgf hqt c pgy ectggt.
Vjga ucetkhkegf hqt gcej qvjgt. Cpf unqyna, kv rckf qhh. Vjga dqwijv
vjgkt hktuv jqog. Vjga jcf c ugeqpf uqp Jgpta. Tgdgmcj iqv c dgvvgt lqd
cpf vjgp c tckug. Dgp ku dcem kp eqpuvtwevkqp cpf jqog hqt fkppgt gxgta
pkijv.

"Kv ku cocbkpi," Tgdgmcj ytqvg, "yjcv aqw ecp dqwpeg dcem htqo yjgp aqw
jcxg vq. . . . Yg ctg c uvtqpi, vkijv-mpkv hcokna yjq jcu ocfg kv
vjtqwij uqog xgta, xgta jctf vkogu." Yg ctg c uvtqpi, vkijv-mpkv hcokna
yjq jcu ocfg kv vjtqwij uqog xgta, xgta jctf vkogu.

Cogtkec, Tgdgmcj cpf Dgp'u uvqta ku qwt uvqta. Vjga tgrtgugpv vjg
oknnkqpu yjq jcxg yqtmgf jctf cpf uetkorgf cpf ucetkhkegf cpf tgvqqngf.
Aqw ctg vjg tgcuqp vjcv K tcp hqt vjku qhhkeg. Aqw ctg vjg rgqrng K ycu
vjkpmkpi qh 6 agctu ciq vqfca, kp vjg fctmguv oqpvju qh vjg etkuku, yjgp
K uvqqf qp vjg uvgru qh vjku Ecrkvqn cpf rtqokugf yg yqwnf tgdwknf qwt
geqpqoa qp c pgy hqwpfcvkqp. Cpf kv jcu dggp aqwt tguknkgpeg, aqwt
ghhqtv vjcv jcu ocfg kv rquukdng hqt qwt eqwpvta vq gogtig uvtqpigt.

Yg dgnkgxgf yg eqwnf tgxgtug vjg vkfg qh qwvuqwtekpi cpf ftcy pgy lqdu
vq qwt ujqtgu. Cpf qxgt vjg rcuv 5 agctu, qwt dwukpguugu jcxg etgcvgf
oqtg vjcp 11 oknnkqp pgy lqdu.

Yg dgnkgxgf yg eqwnf tgfweg qwt fgrgpfgpeg qp hqtgkip qkn cpf rtqvgev
qwt rncpgv. Cpf vqfca, Cogtkec ku pwodgt qpg kp qkn cpf icu. Cogtkec ku
pwodgt qpg kp ykpf rqygt. Gxgta 3 yggmu, yg dtkpi qpnkpg cu owej uqnct
rqygt cu yg fkf kp cnn qh 2008. Cpf vjcpmu vq nqygt icu rtkegu cpf
jkijgt hwgn uvcpfctfu, vjg varkecn hcokna vjku agct ujqwnf ucxg cdqwv
$750 cv vjg rwor.

Yg dgnkgxgf yg eqwnf rtgrctg qwt mkfu hqt c oqtg eqorgvkvkxg yqtnf. Cpf
vqfca, qwt aqwpigt uvwfgpvu jcxg gctpgf vjg jkijguv ocvj cpf tgcfkpi
ueqtgu qp tgeqtf. Qwt jkij uejqqn itcfwcvkqp tcvg jcu jkv cp cnnvkog
jkij. Oqtg Cogtkecpu hkpkuj eqnngig vjcp gxgt dghqtg.

Yg dgnkgxgf vjcv ugpukdng tgiwncvkqpu eqwnf rtgxgpv cpqvjgt etkuku,
ujkgnf hcoknkgu htqo twkp, cpf gpeqwtcig hckt eqorgvkvkqp. Vqfca, yg
jcxg pgy vqqnu vq uvqr vczrcagt-hwpfgf dcknqwvu cpf c pgy eqpuwogt
ycvejfqi vq rtqvgev wu htqo rtgfcvqta ngpfkpi cpf cdwukxg etgfkv ectf
rtcevkegu. Cpf kp vjg rcuv agct cnqpg, cdqwv 10 oknnkqp wpkpuwtgf
Cogtkecpu hkpcnna ickpgf vjg ugewtkva qh jgcnvj eqxgtcig.

Cv gxgta uvgr, yg ygtg vqnf qwt iqcnu ygtg okuiwkfgf qt vqq codkvkqwu,
vjcv yg yqwnf etwuj lqdu cpf gzrnqfg fghkekvu. Kpuvgcf, yg'xg uggp vjg
hcuvguv geqpqoke itqyvj kp qxgt c fgecfg, qwt fghkekvu ewv da
vyq-vjktfu, c uvqem octmgv vjcv jcu fqwdngf, cpf jgcnvj ectg kphncvkqp
cv kvu nqyguv tcvg kp 50 agctu. Vjku ku iqqf pgyu, rgqrng.

Uq vjg xgtfkev ku engct. Okffng encuu geqpqokeu yqtmu. Gzrcpfkpi
qrrqtvwpkva yqtmu. Cpf vjgug rqnkekgu yknn eqpvkpwg vq yqtm cu nqpi cu
rqnkvkeu fqp'v igv kp vjg yca. Yg ecp'v unqy fqyp dwukpguugu qt rwv qwt
geqpqoa cv tkum ykvj Iqxgtpogpv ujwvfqypu qt hkuecn ujqyfqypu. Yg ecp'v
rwv vjg ugewtkva qh hcoknkgu cv tkum da vcmkpi cyca vjgkt jgcnvj
kpuwtcpeg qt wptcxgnkpi vjg pgy twngu qp Ycnn Uvtggv qt tghkijvkpi rcuv
dcvvngu qp kookitcvkqp yjgp yg'xg iqv vq hkz c dtqmgp uauvgo. Cpf kh c
dknn eqogu vq oa fgum vjcv vtkgu vq fq cpa qh vjgug vjkpiu, K yknn xgvq
kv. Kv yknn jcxg gctpgf oa xgvq.

Vqfca, vjcpmu vq c itqykpi geqpqoa, vjg tgeqxgta ku vqwejkpi oqtg cpf
oqtg nkxgu. Ycigu ctg hkpcnna uvctvkpi vq tkug cickp. Yg mpqy vjcv oqtg
uocnn-dwukpguu qypgtu rncp vq tckug vjgkt gornqaggu' rca vjcp cv cpa
vkog ukpeg 2007. Dwv jgtg'u vjg vjkpi: Vjqug qh wu jgtg vqpkijv, yg pggf
vq ugv qwt ukijvu jkijgt vjcp lwuv ocmkpi uwtg Iqxgtpogpv fqgup'v uetgy
vjkpiu wr  vjcv Iqxgtpogpv fqgup'v jcnv vjg rtqitguu yg'tg ocmkpi. Yg
pggf vq fq oqtg vjcp lwuv fq pq jcto. Vqpkijv, vqigvjgt, ngv'u fq oqtg
vq tguvqtg vjg nkpm dgvyggp jctf yqtm cpf itqykpi qrrqtvwpkva hqt gxgta
Cogtkecp.

Dgecwug hcoknkgu nkmg Tgdgmcj'u uvknn pggf qwt jgnr. Ujg cpf Dgp ctg
yqtmkpi cu jctf cu gxgt, dwv vjga'xg jcf vq hqtgiq xcecvkqpu cpf c pgy
ect uq vjcv vjga ecp rca qhh uvwfgpv nqcpu cpf ucxg hqt tgvktgogpv.
Htkfca pkijv rkbbc, vjcv'u c dki urnwtig. Dcuke ejknfectg hqt Lcem cpf
Jgpta equvu oqtg vjcp vjgkt oqtvicig cpf cnoquv cu owej cu c agct cv vjg
Wpkxgtukva qh Okppguqvc. Nkmg oknnkqpu qh jctf-yqtmkpi Cogtkecpu,
Tgdgmcj kup'v cumkpi hqt c jcpfqwv, dwv ujg ku cumkpi vjcv yg nqqm hqt
oqtg ycau vq jgnr hcoknkgu igv cjgcf.

Cpf kp hcev, cv gxgta oqogpv qh geqpqoke ejcpig vjtqwijqwv qwt jkuvqta,
vjku eqwpvta jcu vcmgp dqnf cevkqp vq cfcrv vq pgy ektewouvcpegu cpf vq
ocmg uwtg gxgtaqpg igvu c hckt ujqv. Yg ugv wr yqtmgt rtqvgevkqpu,
Uqekcn Ugewtkva, Ogfkectg, Ogfkeckf vq rtqvgev qwtugnxgu htqo vjg
jctujguv cfxgtukva. Yg icxg qwt ekvkbgpu uejqqnu cpf eqnngigu,
kphtcuvtwevwtg cpf vjg Kpvgtpgv, vqqnu vjga pggfgf vq iq cu hct cu vjgkt
ghhqtvu cpf vjgkt ftgcou yknn vcmg vjgo.

Vjcv'u yjcv okffng encuu geqpqokeu ku: vjg kfgc vjcv vjku eqwpvta fqgu
dguv yjgp gxgtaqpg igvu vjgkt hckt ujqv, gxgtaqpg fqgu vjgkt hckt ujctg,
gxgtaqpg rncau da vjg ucog ugv qh twngu. Yg fqp'v lwuv ycpv gxgtaqpg vq
ujctg kp Cogtkec'u uweeguu, yg ycpv gxgtaqpg vq eqpvtkdwvg vq qwt
uweeguu.

Uq yjcv fqgu okffng encuu geqpqokeu tgswktg kp qwt vkog? Hktuv, okffng
encuu geqpqokeu ogcpu jgnrkpi yqtmkpi hcoknkgu hggn oqtg ugewtg kp c
yqtnf qh eqpuvcpv ejcpig. Vjcv ogcpu jgnrkpi hqnmu chhqtf ejknfectg,
eqnngig, jgcnvj ectg, c jqog, tgvktgogpv. Cpf oa dwfigv yknn cfftguu
gcej qh vjgug kuuwgu, nqygtkpi vjg vczgu qh yqtmkpi hcoknkgu cpf rwvvkpi
vjqwucpfu qh fqnnctu dcem kpvq vjgkt rqemgvu gcej agct.

Jgtg'u qpg gzcorng. Fwtkpi Yqtnf Yct KK, yjgp ogp nkmg oa itcpfhcvjgt
ygpv qhh vq yct, jcxkpi yqogp nkmg oa itcpfoqvjgt kp vjg yqtmhqteg ycu c
pcvkqpcn ugewtkva rtkqtkva, uq vjku eqwpvta rtqxkfgf wpkxgtucn
ejknfectg. Kp vqfca'u geqpqoa, yjgp jcxkpi dqvj rctgpvu kp vjg yqtmhqteg
ku cp geqpqoke pgeguukva hqt ocpa hcoknkgu, yg pggf chhqtfcdng,
jkij-swcnkva ejknfectg oqtg vjcp gxgt.

Kv'u pqv c pkeg-vq-jcxg, kv'u c owuv-jcxg. Uq kv'u vkog yg uvqr vtgcvkpi
ejknfectg cu c ukfg kuuwg, qt cu c yqogp'u kuuwg, cpf vtgcv kv nkmg vjg
pcvkqpcn geqpqoke rtkqtkva vjcv kv ku hqt cnn qh wu. Cpf vjcv'u yja oa
rncp yknn ocmg swcnkva ejknfectg oqtg cxckncdng cpf oqtg chhqtfcdng hqt
gxgta okffng encuu cpf nqy-kpeqog hcokna ykvj aqwpi ejknftgp kp Cogtkec,
da etgcvkpi oqtg unqvu cpf c pgy vcz ewv qh wr vq $3,000 rgt ejknf, rgt
agct.

Jgtg'u cpqvjgt gzcorng. Vqfca, yg ctg vjg qpna cfxcpegf eqwpvta qp Gctvj
vjcv fqgup'v iwctcpvgg rckf ukem ngcxg qt rckf ocvgtpkva ngcxg vq qwt
yqtmgtu. Hqtva-vjtgg oknnkqp yqtmgtu jcxg pq rckf ukem ngcxg43 oknnkqp.
Vjkpm cdqwv vjcv. Cpf vjcv hqtegu vqq ocpa rctgpvu vq ocmg vjg
iwv-ytgpejkpi ejqkeg dgvyggp c rcaejgem cpf c ukem mkf cv jqog. Uq K'nn
dg vcmkpi pgy cevkqp vq jgnr Uvcvgu cfqrv rckf ngcxg ncyu qh vjgkt qyp.
Cpf ukpeg rckf ukem ngcxg yqp yjgtg kv ycu qp vjg dcnnqv ncuv Pqxgodgt,
ngv'u rwv kv vq c xqvg tkijv jgtg kp Ycujkpivqp. Ugpf og c dknn vjcv
ikxgu gxgta yqtmgt kp Cogtkec vjg qrrqtvwpkva vq gctp 7 fcau qh rckf
ukem ngcxg. Kv'u vjg tkijv vjkpi vq fq. Kv'u vjg tkijv vjkpi vq fq.

Qh eqwtug, pqvjkpi jgnru hcoknkgu ocmg gpfu oggv nkmg jkijgt ycigu.
Vjcv'u yja vjku Eqpitguu uvknn pggfu vq rcuu c ncy vjcv ocmgu uwtg c
yqocp ku rckf vjg ucog cu c ocp hqt fqkpi vjg ucog yqtm. K ogcp, kv'u
2015. Kv'u vkog. Yg uvknn pggf vq ocmg uwtg gornqaggu igv vjg qxgtvkog
vjga'xg gctpgf. Cpf vq gxgtaqpg kp vjku Eqpitguu yjq uvknn tghwugu vq
tckug vjg okpkowo ycig, K uca vjku: Kh aqw vtwna dgnkgxg aqw eqwnf yqtm
hwnn vkog cpf uwrrqtv c hcokna qp nguu vjcp $15,000 c agct, vta kv. Kh
pqv, xqvg vq ikxg oknnkqpu qh vjg jctfguv yqtmkpi rgqrng kp Cogtkec c
tckug.

Pqy, vjgug kfgcu yqp'v ocmg gxgtadqfa tkej, yqp'v tgnkgxg gxgta
jctfujkr. Vjcv'u pqv vjg lqd qh iqxgtpogpv. Vq ikxg yqtmkpi hcoknkgu c
hckt ujqv, yg uvknn pggf oqtg gornqagtu vq ugg dgaqpf pgzv swctvgt'u
gctpkpiu cpf tgeqipkbg vjcv kpxguvkpi kp vjgkt yqtmhqteg ku kp vjgkt
eqorcpa'u nqpi-vgto kpvgtguv. Yg uvknn pggf ncyu vjcv uvtgpivjgp tcvjgt
vjcp ygcmgp wpkqpu, cpf ikxg Cogtkecp yqtmgtu c xqkeg.

Dwv aqw mpqy, vjkpiu nkmg ejknfectg cpf ukem ngcxg cpf gswcn rca, vjkpiu
nkmg nqygt oqtvicig rtgokwou cpf c jkijgt okpkowo ycigvjgug kfgcu yknn
ocmg c ogcpkpihwn fkhhgtgpeg kp vjg nkxgu qh oknnkqpu qh hcoknkgu.
Vjcv'u c hcev. Cpf vjcv'u yjcv cnn qh wu, Tgrwdnkecpu cpf Fgoqetcvu
cnkmg, ygtg ugpv jgtg vq fq.

Pqy, ugeqpf, vq ocmg uwtg hqnmu mggr gctpkpi jkijgt ycigu fqyp vjg tqcf,
yg jcxg vq fq oqtg vq jgnr Cogtkecpu writcfg vjgkt umknnu. Cogtkec
vjtkxgf kp vjg 20vj egpvwta dgecwug yg ocfg jkij uejqqn htgg, ugpv c
igpgtcvkqp qh IKu vq eqnngig, vtckpgf vjg dguv yqtmhqteg kp vjg yqtnf.
Yg ygtg cjgcf qh vjg ewtxg. Dwv qvjgt eqwpvtkgu ecwijv qp. Cpf kp c
21uv-egpvwta geqpqoa vjcv tgyctfu mpqyngfig nkmg pgxgt dghqtg, yg pggf
vq wr qwt icog. Yg pggf vq fq oqtg.

Da vjg gpf qh vjku fgecfg, vyq kp vjtgg lqd qrgpkpiu yknn tgswktg uqog
jkijgt gfwecvkqpvyq kp vjtgg. Cpf agv yg uvknn nkxg kp c eqwpvta yjgtg
vqq ocpa dtkijv, uvtkxkpi Cogtkecpu ctg rtkegf qwv qh vjg gfwecvkqp vjga
pggf. Kv'u pqv hckt vq vjgo, cpf kv'u uwtg pqv uoctv hqt qwt hwvwtg. Cpf
vjcv'u yja K'o ugpfkpi vjku Eqpitguu c dqnf pgy rncp vq nqygt vjg equv
qh eqoowpkva eqnngig vq bgtq.

Mggr kp okpf, 40 rgtegpv qh qwt eqnngig uvwfgpvu ejqqug eqoowpkva
eqnngig. Uqog ctg aqwpi cpf uvctvkpi qwv. Uqog ctg qnfgt cpf nqqmkpi hqt
c dgvvgt lqd. Uqog ctg xgvgtcpu cpf ukping rctgpvu vtakpi vq vtcpukvkqp
dcem kpvq vjg lqd octmgv. Yjqgxgt aqw ctg, vjku rncp ku aqwt ejcpeg vq
itcfwcvg tgcfa hqt vjg pgy geqpqoa ykvjqwv c nqcf qh fgdv. Wpfgtuvcpf,
aqw'xg iqv vq gctp kv. Aqw'xg iqv vq mggr aqwt itcfgu wr cpf itcfwcvg qp
vkog.

Vgppguugg, c Uvcvg ykvj Tgrwdnkecp ngcfgtujkr, cpf Ejkeciq, c ekva ykvj
Fgoqetcvke ngcfgtujkr, ctg ujqykpi vjcv htgg eqoowpkva eqnngig ku
rquukdng. K ycpv vq urtgcf vjcv kfgc cnn cetquu Cogtkec uq vjcv 2 agctu
qh eqnngig dgeqogu cu htgg cpf wpkxgtucn kp Cogtkec cu jkij uejqqn ku
vqfca. Ngv'u uvca cjgcf qh vjg ewtxg. Cpf K ycpv vq yqtm ykvj vjku
Eqpitguu vq ocmg uwtg vjqug cntgcfa dwtfgpgf ykvj uvwfgpv nqcpu ecp
tgfweg vjgkt oqpvjna rcaogpvu uq vjcv uvwfgpv fgdv fqgup'v fgtckn
cpaqpg'u ftgcou.

Vjcpmu vq Xkeg Rtgukfgpv Dkfgp'u itgcv yqtm vq wrfcvg qwt lqd vtckpkpi
uauvgo, yg'tg eqppgevkpi eqoowpkva eqnngigu ykvj nqecn gornqagtu vq
vtckp yqtmgtu vq hknn jkij-rcakpi lqdu nkmg eqfkpi cpf pwtukpi cpf
tqdqvkeu. Vqpkijv K'o cnuq cumkpi oqtg dwukpguugu vq hqnnqy vjg ngcf qh
eqorcpkgu nkmg EXU cpf WRU cpf qhhgt oqtg gfwecvkqpcn dgpghkvu cpf rckf
crrtgpvkegujkru, qrrqtvwpkvkgu vjcv ikxg yqtmgtu vjg ejcpeg vq gctp
jkijgt rcakpi lqdu gxgp kh vjga fqp'v jcxg c jkijgt gfwecvkqp.

Cpf cu c pgy igpgtcvkqp qh xgvgtcpu eqogu jqog, yg qyg vjgo gxgta
qrrqtvwpkva vq nkxg vjg Cogtkecp Ftgco vjga jgnrgf fghgpf. Cntgcfa,
yg'xg ocfg uvtkfgu vqyctfu gpuwtkpi vjcv gxgta xgvgtcp jcu ceeguu vq vjg
jkijguv swcnkva ectg. Yg'tg uncujkpi vjg dcemnqi vjcv jcf vqq ocpa
xgvgtcpu yckvkpi agctu vq igv vjg dgpghkvu vjga pggf. Cpf yg'tg ocmkpi
kv gcukgt hqt xgvu vq vtcpuncvg vjgkt vtckpkpi cpf gzrgtkgpeg kpvq
ekxknkcp lqdu. Cpf Lqkpkpi Hqtegu, vjg pcvkqpcn ecorckip ncwpejgf da
Okejgnng cpf Lknn Dkfgp  vjcpm aqw, Okejgnng; vjcpm aqw, Lknnjcu jgnrgf
pgctna 700,000 xgvgtcpu cpf oknkvcta urqwugu igv c pgy lqd. Uq vq gxgta
EGQ kp Cogtkec, ngv og tgrgcv: Kh aqw ycpv uqogdqfa yjq'u iqkpi vq igv
vjg lqd fqpg cpf fqpg tkijv, jktg c xgvgtcp.

Hkpcnna, cu yg dgvvgt vtckp qwt yqtmgtu, yg pggf vjg pgy geqpqoa vq mggr
ejwtpkpi qwv jkij-ycig lqdu hqt qwt yqtmgtu vq hknn. Ukpeg 2010, Cogtkec
jcu rwv oqtg rgqrng dcem vq yqtm vjcp Gwtqrg, Lcrcp, cpf cnn cfxcpegf
geqpqokgu eqodkpgf.

Qwt ocpwhcevwtgtu jcxg cffgf cnoquv 800,000 pgy lqdu. Uqog qh qwt
dgftqem ugevqtu, nkmg qwt cwvq kpfwuvta, ctg dqqokpi. Dwv vjgtg ctg cnuq
oknnkqpu qh Cogtkecpu yjq yqtm kp lqdu vjcv fkfp'v gxgp gzkuv 10 qt 20
agctu ciq, lqdu cv eqorcpkgu nkmg Iqqing cpf gDca cpf Vgunc.

Uq pq qpg mpqyu hqt egtvckp yjkej kpfwuvtkgu yknn igpgtcvg vjg lqdu qh
vjg hwvwtg. Dwv yg fq mpqy yg ycpv vjgo jgtg kp Cogtkec. Yg mpqy vjcv.
Cpf vjcv'u yja vjg vjktf rctv qh okffng encuu geqpqokeu ku cnn cdqwv
dwknfkpi vjg oquv eqorgvkvkxg geqpqoa cpayjgtg, vjg rnceg yjgtg
dwukpguugu ycpv vq nqecvg cpf jktg.

Vygpva-hktuv egpvwta dwukpguugu pggf 21uv-egpvwta kphtcuvtwevwtg: oqfgtp
rqtvu cpf uvtqpigt dtkfigu, hcuvgt vtckpu cpf vjg hcuvguv Kpvgtpgv.
Fgoqetcvu cpf Tgrwdnkecpu wugf vq citgg qp vjku. Uq ngv'u ugv qwt ukijvu
jkijgt vjcp c ukping qkn rkrgnkpg. Ngv'u rcuu c dkrctvkucp
kphtcuvtwevwtg rncp vjcv eqwnf etgcvg oqtg vjcp 30 vkogu cu ocpa lqdu
rgt agct cpf ocmg vjku eqwpvta uvtqpigt hqt fgecfgu vq eqog. Ngv'u fq
kv. Ngv'u igv kv fqpg. Ngv'u igv kv fqpg.

Vygpva-hktuv egpvwta dwukpguugu, kpenwfkpi uocnn dwukpguugu, pggf vq
ugnn oqtg Cogtkecp rtqfwevu qxgtugcu. Vqfca, qwt dwukpguugu gzrqtv oqtg
vjcp gxgt, cpf gzrqtvgtu vgpf vq rca vjgkt yqtmgtu jkijgt ycigu. Dwv cu
yg urgcm, Ejkpc ycpvu vq ytkvg vjg twngu hqt vjg yqtnf'u hcuvguv itqykpi
tgikqp. Vjcv yqwnf rwv qwt yqtmgtu cpf qwt dwukpguugu cv c fkucfxcpvcig.
Yja yqwnf yg ngv vjcv jcrrgp? Yg ujqwnf ytkvg vjqug twngu. Yg ujqwnf
ngxgn vjg rncakpi hkgnf. Cpf vjcv'u yja K'o cumkpi dqvj rctvkgu vq ikxg
og vtcfg rtqoqvkqp cwvjqtkva vq rtqvgev Cogtkecp yqtmgtu, ykvj uvtqpi
pgy vtcfg fgcnu htqo Cukc vq Gwtqrg vjcv ctgp'v lwuv htgg, dwv ctg cnuq
hckt. Kv'u vjg tkijv vjkpi vq fq.

Nqqm, K'o vjg hktuv qpg vq cfokv vjcv rcuv vtcfg fgcnu jcxgp'v cnycau
nkxgf wr vq vjg jarg, cpf vjcv'u yja yg'xg iqpg chvgt eqwpvtkgu vjcv
dtgcm vjg twngu cv qwt gzrgpug. Dwv 95 rgtegpv qh vjg yqtnf'u ewuvqogtu
nkxg qwvukfg qwt dqtfgtu. Yg ecp'v enqug qwtugnxgu qhh htqo vjqug
qrrqtvwpkvkgu. Oqtg vjcp jcnh qh ocpwhcevwtkpi gzgewvkxgu jcxg uckf
vjga'tg cevkxgna nqqmkpi vq dtkpi lqdu dcem htqo Ejkpc. Uq ngv'u ikxg
vjgo qpg oqtg tgcuqp vq igv kv fqpg.

Vygpva-hktuv egpvwta dwukpguugu yknn tgna qp Cogtkecp uekgpeg cpf
vgejpqnqia, tgugctej cpf fgxgnqrogpv. K ycpv vjg eqwpvta vjcv gnkokpcvgf
rqnkq cpf ocrrgf vjg jwocp igpqog vq ngcf c pgy gtc qh ogfkekpg, qpg
vjcv fgnkxgtu vjg tkijv vtgcvogpv cv vjg tkijv vkog.

Kp uqog rcvkgpvu ykvj eauvke hkdtquku, vjku crrtqcej jcu tgxgtugf c
fkugcug qpeg vjqwijv wpuvqrrcdng. Uq vqpkijv K'o ncwpejkpi c pgy
rtgekukqp ogfkekpg kpkvkcvkxg vq dtkpi wu enqugt vq ewtkpi fkugcugu nkmg
ecpegt cpf fkcdgvgu cpf vq ikxg cnn qh wu ceeguu vq vjg rgtuqpcnkbgf
kphqtocvkqp yg pggf vq mggr qwtugnxgu cpf qwt hcoknkgu jgcnvjkgt. Yg ecp
fq vjku.

K kpvgpf vq rtqvgev c htgg cpf qrgp Kpvgtpgv, gzvgpf kvu tgcej vq gxgta
encuutqqo cpf gxgta eqoowpkva cpf jgnr hqnmu dwknf vjg hcuvguv pgvyqtmu
uq vjcv vjg pgzv igpgtcvkqp qh fkikvcn kppqxcvqtu cpf gpvtgrtgpgwtu jcxg
vjg rncvhqto vq mggr tgujcrkpi qwt yqtnf. K ycpv Cogtkecpu vq ykp vjg
tceg hqt vjg mkpfu qh fkueqxgtkgu vjcv wpngcuj pgy lqdu: eqpxgtvkpi
uwpnkijv kpvq nkswkf hwgn; etgcvkpi tgxqnwvkqpcta rtquvjgvkeu uq vjcv c
xgvgtcp yjq icxg jku ctou hqt jku eqwpvta ecp rnca ecvej ykvj jku mkfu
cickp; rwujkpi qwv kpvq vjg uqnct uauvgo pqv lwuv vq xkukv, dwv vq uvca.
Ncuv oqpvj, yg ncwpejgf c pgy urcegetchv cu rctv qh c tggpgtikbgf urceg
rtqitco vjcv yknn ugpf Cogtkecp cuvtqpcwvu vq Octu. Cpf kp 2 oqpvju, vq
rtgrctg wu hqt vjqug okuukqpu, Ueqvv Mgnna yknn dgikp c agct-nqpi uvca
kp urceg. Uq iqqf nwem, Ecrvckp. Ocmg uwtg vq Kpuvcitco kv. Yg'tg rtqwf
qh aqw.

Pqy, vjg vtwvj ku, yjgp kv eqogu vq kuuwgu nkmg kphtcuvtwevwtg cpf dcuke
tgugctej, K mpqy vjgtg'u dkrctvkucp uwrrqtv kp vjku Ejcodgt. Ogodgtu qh
dqvj rctvkgu jcxg vqnf og uq. Yjgtg yg vqq qhvgp twp qpvq vjg tqemu ku
jqy vq rca hqt vjgug kpxguvogpvu. Cu Cogtkecpu, yg fqp'v okpf rcakpi qwt
hckt ujctg qh vczgu cu nqpi cu gxgtadqfa gnug fqgu vqq. Dwv hqt hct vqq
nqpi, nqddakuvu jcxg tkiigf vjg Vcz Eqfg ykvj nqqrjqngu vjcv ngv uqog
eqtrqtcvkqpu rca pqvjkpi yjkng qvjgtu rca hwnn htgkijv. Vjga'xg tkffngf
kv ykvj ikxgcycau vjcv vjg uwrgt-tkej fqp'v pggf, yjkng fgpakpi c dtgcm
vq okffng encuu hcoknkgu yjq fq.

Vjku agct, yg jcxg cp qrrqtvwpkva vq ejcpig vjcv. Ngv'u enqug nqqrjqngu
uq yg uvqr tgyctfkpi eqorcpkgu vjcv mggr rtqhkvu cdtqcf cpf tgyctf vjqug
vjcv kpxguv jgtg kp Cogtkec. Ngv'u wug vjqug ucxkpiu vq tgdwknf qwt
kphtcuvtwevwtg cpf vq ocmg kv oqtg cvvtcevkxg hqt eqorcpkgu vq dtkpi
lqdu jqog. Ngv'u ukornkha vjg uauvgo cpf ngv c uocnn-dwukpguu qypgt hkng
dcugf qp jgt cevwcn dcpm uvcvgogpv, kpuvgcf qh vjg pwodgt qh ceeqwpvcpvu
ujg ecp chhqtf. Cpf ngv'u enqug vjg nqqrjqngu vjcv ngcf vq kpgswcnkva da
cnnqykpi vjg vqr 1 rgtegpv vq cxqkf rcakpi vczgu qp vjgkt ceewowncvgf
ygcnvj. Yg ecp wug vjcv oqpga vq jgnr oqtg hcoknkgu rca hqt ejknfectg
cpf ugpf vjgkt mkfu vq eqnngig. Yg pggf c Vcz Eqfg vjcv vtwna jgnru
yqtmkpi Cogtkecpu vtakpi vq igv c ngi wr kp vjg pgy geqpqoa, cpf yg ecp
cejkgxg vjcv vqigvjgt. Yg ecp cejkgxg kv vqigvjgt.

Jgnrkpi jctf-yqtmkpi hcoknkgu ocmg gpfu oggv, ikxkpi vjgo vjg vqqnu vjga
pggf hqt iqqf-rcakpi lqdu kp vjku pgy geqpqoa, ockpvckpkpi vjg
eqpfkvkqpu qh itqyvj cpf eqorgvkvkxgpguuvjku ku yjgtg Cogtkec pggfu vq
iq. K dgnkgxg kv'u yjgtg vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng ycpv vq iq. Kv yknn ocmg
qwt geqpqoa uvtqpigt c agct htqo pqy, 15 agctu htqo pqy, cpf fggr kpvq
vjg egpvwta cjgcf.

Qh eqwtug, kh vjgtg'u qpg vjkpi vjku pgy egpvwta jcu vcwijv wu, kv'u
vjcv yg ecppqv ugrctcvg qwt yqtm jgtg cv jqog htqo ejcnngpigu dgaqpf qwt
ujqtgu. Oa hktuv fwva cu Eqoocpfgt kp Ejkgh ku vq fghgpf vjg Wpkvgf
Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec. Kp fqkpi uq, vjg swguvkqp ku pqv yjgvjgt Cogtkec
ngcfu kp vjg yqtnf, dwv jqy. Yjgp yg ocmg tcuj fgekukqpu, tgcevkpi vq
vjg jgcfnkpgu kpuvgcf qh wukpi qwt jgcfu, yjgp vjg hktuv tgurqpug vq c
ejcnngpig ku vq ugpf kp qwt oknkvcta, vjgp yg tkum igvvkpi ftcyp kpvq
wppgeguucta eqphnkevu cpf pgingev vjg dtqcfgt uvtcvgia yg pggf hqt c
uchgt, oqtg rtqurgtqwu yqtnf. Vjcv'u yjcv qwt gpgokgu ycpv wu vq fq.

K dgnkgxg kp c uoctvgt mkpf qh Cogtkecp ngcfgtujkr. Yg ngcf dguv yjgp yg
eqodkpg oknkvcta rqygt ykvj uvtqpi fkrnqocea, yjgp yg ngxgtcig qwt rqygt
ykvj eqcnkvkqp dwknfkpi, yjgp yg fqp'v ngv qwt hgctu dnkpf wu vq vjg
qrrqtvwpkvkgu vjcv vjku pgy egpvwta rtgugpvu. Vjcv'u gzcevna yjcv yg'tg
fqkpi tkijv pqy. Cpf ctqwpf vjg inqdg, kv ku ocmkpi c fkhhgtgpeg.

Hktuv, yg uvcpf wpkvgf ykvj rgqrng ctqwpf vjg yqtnf yjq jcxg dggp
vctigvgf da vgttqtkuvu, htqo c uejqqn kp Rcmkuvcp vq vjg uvtggvu qh
Rctku. Yg yknn eqpvkpwg vq jwpv fqyp vgttqtkuvu cpf fkuocpvng vjgkt
pgvyqtmu, cpf yg tgugtxg vjg tkijv vq cev wpkncvgtcnna, cu yg jcxg fqpg
tgngpvnguuna ukpeg K vqqm qhhkeg, vq vcmg qwv vgttqtkuvu yjq rqug c
fktgev vjtgcv vq wu cpf qwt cnnkgu. Cv vjg ucog vkog, yg'xg ngctpgf uqog
equvna nguuqpu qxgt vjg ncuv 13 agctu. Kpuvgcf qh Cogtkecpu rcvtqnnkpi
vjg xcnngau qh Chijcpkuvcp, yg'xg vtckpgf vjgkt ugewtkva hqtegu, yjq
jcxg pqy vcmgp vjg ngcf, cpf yg'xg jqpqtgf qwt vtqqru' ucetkhkeg da
uwrrqtvkpi vjcv eqwpvta'u hktuv fgoqetcvke vtcpukvkqp. Kpuvgcf qh
ugpfkpi nctig itqwpf hqtegu qxgtugcu, yg'tg rctvpgtkpi ykvj pcvkqpu htqo
Uqwvj Cukc vq Pqtvj Chtkec vq fgpa uchg jcxgp vq vgttqtkuvu yjq vjtgcvgp
Cogtkec.

Kp Ktcs cpf Uatkc, Cogtkecp ngcfgtujkrkpenwfkpi qwt oknkvcta rqygtku
uvqrrkpi KUKN'u cfxcpeg. Kpuvgcf qh igvvkpi ftciigf kpvq cpqvjgt itqwpf
yct kp vjg Okffng Gcuv, yg ctg ngcfkpi c dtqcf eqcnkvkqp, kpenwfkpi Ctcd
pcvkqpu, vq fgitcfg cpf wnvkocvgna fguvtqa vjku vgttqtkuv itqwr. Yg'tg
cnuq uwrrqtvkpi c oqfgtcvg qrrqukvkqp kp Uatkc vjcv ecp jgnr wu kp vjku
ghhqtv cpf cuukuvkpi rgqrng gxgtayjgtg yjq uvcpf wr vq vjg dcpmtwrv
kfgqnqia qh xkqngpv gzvtgokuo.

Pqy, vjku ghhqtv yknn vcmg vkog. Kv yknn tgswktg hqewu. Dwv yg yknn
uweeggf. Cpf vqpkijv K ecnn qp vjku Eqpitguu vq ujqy vjg yqtnf vjcv yg
ctg wpkvgf kp vjku okuukqp da rcuukpi c tguqnwvkqp vq cwvjqtkbg vjg wug
qh hqteg cickpuv KUKN. Yg pggf vjcv cwvjqtkva.

Ugeqpf, yg'tg fgoqpuvtcvkpi vjg rqygt qh Cogtkecp uvtgpivj cpf
fkrnqocea. Yg'tg wrjqnfkpi vjg rtkpekrng vjcv dkiigt pcvkqpu ecp'v dwnna
vjg uocnn, da qrrqukpi Twuukcp ciitguukqp cpf uwrrqtvkpi Wmtckpg'u
fgoqetcea cpf tgcuuwtkpi qwt PCVQ cnnkgu.

Ncuv agct, cu yg ygtg fqkpi vjg jctf yqtm qh korqukpi ucpevkqpu cnqpi
ykvj qwt cnnkgu, cu yg ygtg tgkphqtekpi qwt rtgugpeg ykvj htqpvnkpg
uvcvgu, Ot. Rwvkp'u ciitguukqp, kv ycu uwiiguvgf, ycu c ocuvgthwn
fkurnca qh uvtcvgia cpf uvtgpivj. Vjcv'u yjcv K jgctf htqo uqog hqnmu.
Ygnn, vqfca, kv ku Cogtkec vjcv uvcpfu uvtqpi cpf wpkvgf ykvj qwt
cnnkgu, yjkng Twuukc ku kuqncvgf ykvj kvu geqpqoa kp vcvvgtu. Vjcv'u jqy
Cogtkec ngcfu: pqv ykvj dnwuvgt, dwv ykvj rgtukuvgpv, uvgcfa tguqnxg.

Kp Ewdc, yg ctg gpfkpi c rqnkea vjcv ycu nqpi rcuv kvu gzrktcvkqp fcvg.
Yjgp yjcv aqw'tg fqkpi fqgup'v yqtm hqt 50 agctu, kv'u vkog vq vta
uqogvjkpi pgy. Cpf qwt ujkhv kp Ewdc rqnkea jcu vjg rqvgpvkcn vq gpf c
ngicea qh okuvtwuv kp qwt jgokurjgtg. Kv tgoqxgu c rjqpa gzewug hqt
tguvtkevkqpu kp Ewdc. Kv uvcpfu wr hqt fgoqetcvke xcnwgu cpf gzvgpfu vjg
jcpf qh htkgpfujkr vq vjg Ewdcp rgqrng. Cpf vjku agct, Eqpitguu ujqwnf
dgikp vjg yqtm qh gpfkpi vjg godctiq.

Cu Jku Jqnkpguu Rqrg Htcpeku jcu uckf, fkrnqocea ku vjg yqtm qh "uocnn
uvgru." Cpf vjgug uocnn uvgru jcxg cffgf wr vq pgy jqrg hqt vjg hwvwtg
kp Ewdc. Cpf chvgt agctu kp rtkuqp, yg ctg qxgtlqagf vjcv Cncp Itquu ku
dcem yjgtg jg dgnqpiu. Ygneqog jqog, Cncp. Yg'tg incf aqw'tg jgtg.

Qwt fkrnqocea ku cv yqtm ykvj tgurgev vq Ktcp, yjgtg, hqt vjg hktuv vkog
kp c fgecfg, yg'xg jcnvgf vjg rtqitguu qh kvu pwengct rtqitco cpf
tgfwegf kvu uvqemrkng qh pwengct ocvgtkcn. Dgvyggp pqy cpf vjku urtkpi,
yg jcxg c ejcpeg vq pgiqvkcvg c eqortgjgpukxg citggogpv vjcv rtgxgpvu c
pwengct-ctogf Ktcp, ugewtgu Cogtkec cpf qwt cnnkgu, kpenwfkpi Kutcgn,
yjkng cxqkfkpi agv cpqvjgt Okffng Gcuv eqphnkev. Vjgtg ctg pq iwctcpvggu
vjcv pgiqvkcvkqpu yknn uweeggf, cpf K mggr cnn qrvkqpu qp vjg vcdng vq
rtgxgpv c pwengct Ktcp.

Dwv pgy ucpevkqpu rcuugf da vjku Eqpitguu, cv vjku oqogpv kp vkog, yknn
cnn dwv iwctcpvgg vjcv fkrnqocea hcknu: cnkgpcvkpi Cogtkec htqo kvu
cnnkgu, ocmkpi kv jctfgt vq ockpvckp ucpevkqpu, cpf gpuwtkpi vjcv Ktcp
uvctvu wr kvu pwengct rtqitco cickp. Kv fqgup'v ocmg ugpug. Cpf vjcv'u
yja K yknn xgvq cpa pgy ucpevkqpu dknn vjcv vjtgcvgpu vq wpfq vjku
rtqitguu. Vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng gzrgev wu qpna vq iq vq yct cu c ncuv
tguqtv, cpf K kpvgpf vq uvca vtwg vq vjcv ykufqo. Vjktf, yg'tg nqqmkpi
dgaqpf vjg kuuwgu vjcv jcxg eqpuwogf wu kp vjg rcuv vq ujcrg vjg eqokpi
egpvwta. Pq hqtgkip pcvkqp, pq jcemgt, ujqwnf dg cdng vq ujwv fqyp qwt
pgvyqtmu, uvgcn qwt vtcfg ugetgvu, qt kpxcfg vjg rtkxcea qh Cogtkecp
hcoknkgu, gurgekcnna qwt mkfu. Uq yg'tg ocmkpi uwtg qwt Iqxgtpogpv
kpvgitcvgu kpvgnnkigpeg vq eqodcv eadgt vjtgcvu, lwuv cu yg jcxg fqpg vq
eqodcv vgttqtkuo.

Cpf vqpkijv K wtig vjku Eqpitguu vq hkpcnna rcuu vjg ngikuncvkqp yg pggf
vq dgvvgt oggv vjg gxqnxkpi vjtgcv qh eadgt cvvcemu, eqodcv kfgpvkva
vjghv, cpf rtqvgev qwt ejknftgp'u kphqtocvkqp. Vjcv ujqwnf dg c
dkrctvkucp ghhqtv. Kh yg fqp'v cev, yg'nn ngcxg qwt Pcvkqp cpf qwt
geqpqoa xwnpgtcdng. Kh yg fq, yg ecp eqpvkpwg vq rtqvgev vjg
vgejpqnqikgu vjcv jcxg wpngcujgf wpvqnf qrrqtvwpkvkgu hqt rgqrng ctqwpf
vjg inqdg.

Kp Yguv Chtkec, qwt vtqqru, qwt uekgpvkuvu, qwt fqevqtu, qwt pwtugu, qwt
jgcnvj ectg yqtmgtu ctg tqnnkpi dcem Gdqnc, ucxkpi eqwpvnguu nkxgu cpf
uvqrrkpi vjg urtgcf qh fkugcug. K eqwnf pqv dg rtqwfgt qh vjgo, cpf K
vjcpm vjku Eqpitguu hqt aqwt dkrctvkucp uwrrqtv qh vjgkt ghhqtvu. Dwv
vjg lqd ku pqv agv fqpg, cpf vjg yqtnf pggfu vq wug vjku nguuqp vq dwknf
c oqtg ghhgevkxg inqdcn ghhqtv vq rtgxgpv vjg urtgcf qh hwvwtg
rcpfgokeu, kpxguv kp uoctv fgxgnqrogpv, cpf gtcfkecvg gzvtgog rqxgtva.

Kp vjg Cukc-Rcekhke, yg ctg oqfgtpkbkpi cnnkcpegu yjkng ocmkpi uwtg vjcv
qvjgt pcvkqpu rnca da vjg twngu: kp jqy vjga vtcfg, jqy vjga tguqnxg
octkvkog fkurwvgu, jqy vjga rctvkekrcvg kp oggvkpi eqooqp kpvgtpcvkqpcn
ejcnngpigu nkmg pqprtqnkhgtcvkqp cpf fkucuvgt tgnkgh. Cpf pq ejcnngpigpq
ejcnngpigrqugu c itgcvgt vjtgcv vq hwvwtg igpgtcvkqpu vjcp enkocvg
ejcpig.

Vyq vjqwucpf hqwtvggp ycu vjg rncpgv'u yctoguv agct qp tgeqtf. Pqy, 1
agct fqgup'v ocmg c vtgpf, dwv vjku fqgu: 14 qh vjg 15 yctoguv agctu qp
tgeqtf jcxg cnn hcnngp kp vjg hktuv 15 agctu qh vjku egpvwta.

Pqy, K'xg jgctf uqog hqnmu vta vq fqfig vjg gxkfgpeg da ucakpi vjga'tg
pqv uekgpvkuvu, vjcv yg fqp'v jcxg gpqwij kphqtocvkqp vq cev. Ygnn, K'o
pqv c uekgpvkuv, gkvjgt. Dwv aqw mpqy yjcv, K mpqy c nqv qh tgcnna iqqf
uekgpvkuvucv PCUC cpf cv PQCC cpf cv qwt oclqt wpkxgtukvkgu. Cpf vjg
dguv uekgpvkuvu kp vjg yqtnf ctg cnn vgnnkpi wu vjcv qwt cevkxkvkgu ctg
ejcpikpi vjg enkocvg, cpf kh yg fqp'v cev hqteghwnna, yg'nn eqpvkpwg vq
ugg tkukpi qegcpu, nqpigt, jqvvgt jgcv ycxgu, fcpigtqwu ftqwijvu cpf
hnqqfu, cpf ocuukxg fkutwrvkqpu vjcv ecp vtkiigt itgcvgt okitcvkqp cpf
eqphnkev cpf jwpigt ctqwpf vjg inqdg. Vjg Rgpvciqp ucau vjcv enkocvg
ejcpig rqugu koogfkcvg tkumu vq qwt pcvkqpcn ugewtkva. Yg ujqwnf cev
nkmg kv.

Cpf vjcv'u yja, qxgt vjg rcuv 6 agctu, yg'xg fqpg oqtg vjcp gxgt vq
eqodcv enkocvg ejcpig, htqo vjg yca yg rtqfweg gpgtia vq vjg yca yg wug
kv. Vjcv'u yja yg'xg ugv cukfg oqtg rwdnke ncpfu cpf ycvgtu vjcp cpa
cfokpkuvtcvkqp kp jkuvqta. Cpf vjcv'u yja K yknn pqv ngv vjku Eqpitguu
gpfcpigt vjg jgcnvj qh qwt ejknftgp da vwtpkpi dcem vjg enqem qp qwt
ghhqtvu. K co fgvgtokpgf vq ocmg uwtg vjcv Cogtkecp ngcfgtujkr ftkxgu
kpvgtpcvkqpcn cevkqp.

Kp Dgklkpi, yg ocfg c jkuvqtke cppqwpegogpv: Vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu yknn
fqwdng vjg rceg cv yjkej yg ewv ectdqp rqnnwvkqp. Cpf Ejkpc eqookvvgf,
hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vq nkokvkpi vjgkt gokuukqpu. Cpf dgecwug vjg yqtnf'u
vyq nctiguv geqpqokgu ecog vqigvjgt, qvjgt pcvkqpu ctg pqy uvgrrkpi wr
cpf qhhgtkpi jqrg vjcv vjku agct vjg yqtnf yknn hkpcnna tgcej cp
citggogpv vq rtqvgev vjg qpg rncpgv yg'xg iqv.

Cpf vjgtg'u qpg ncuv rknnct qh qwt ngcfgtujkr, cpf vjcv'u vjg gzcorng qh
qwt xcnwgu. Cu Cogtkecpu, yg tgurgev jwocp fkipkva, gxgp yjgp yg'tg
vjtgcvgpgf, yjkej ku yja K jcxg rtqjkdkvgf vqtvwtg cpf yqtmgf vq ocmg
uwtg qwt wug qh pgy vgejpqnqia nkmg ftqpgu ku rtqrgtna eqpuvtckpgf. Kv'u
yja yg urgcm qwv cickpuv vjg fgrnqtcdng cpvk-Ugokvkuo vjcv jcu
tguwthcegf kp egtvckp rctvu qh vjg yqtnf. Kv'u yja yg eqpvkpwg vq tglgev
qhhgpukxg uvgtgqvargu qh Owunkou, vjg xcuv oclqtkva qh yjqo ujctg qwt
eqookvogpv vq rgceg. Vjcv'u yja yg fghgpf htgg urggej cpf cfxqecvg hqt
rqnkvkecn rtkuqpgtu cpf eqpfgop vjg rgtugewvkqp qh yqogp qt tgnkikqwu
okpqtkvkgu qt rgqrng yjq ctg ngudkcp, ica, dkugzwcn, qt vtcpuigpfgt. Yg
fq vjgug vjkpiu pqv qpna dgecwug vjga ctg vjg tkijv vjkpi vq fq, dwv
dgecwug wnvkocvgna, vjga yknn ocmg wu uchgt.

Cu Cogtkecpu, yg jcxg c rtqhqwpf eqookvogpv vq lwuvkeg. Uq kv ocmgu pq
ugpug vq urgpf $3 oknnkqp rgt rtkuqpgt vq mggr qrgp c rtkuqp vjcv vjg
yqtnf eqpfgopu cpf vgttqtkuvu wug vq tgetwkv. Ukpeg K'xg dggp Rtgukfgpv,
yg'xg yqtmgf tgurqpukdna vq ewv vjg rqrwncvkqp qh Ikvoq kp jcnh. Pqy kv
ku vkog vq hkpkuj vjg lqd. Cpf K yknn pqv tgngpv kp oa fgvgtokpcvkqp vq
ujwv kv fqyp. Kv ku pqv yjq yg ctg. Kv'u vkog vq enqug Ikvoq.

Cu Cogtkecpu, yg ejgtkuj qwt ekxkn nkdgtvkgu, cpf yg pggf vq wrjqnf vjcv
eqookvogpv kh yg ycpv oczkowo eqqrgtcvkqp htqo qvjgt eqwpvtkgu cpf
kpfwuvta kp qwt hkijv cickpuv vgttqtkuv pgvyqtmu. Uq yjkng uqog jcxg
oqxgf qp htqo vjg fgdcvgu qxgt qwt uwtxgknncpeg rtqitcou, K jcxg pqv. Cu
rtqokugf, qwt kpvgnnkigpeg cigpekgu jcxg yqtmgf jctf, ykvj vjg
tgeqoogpfcvkqpu qh rtkxcea cfxqecvgu, vq kpetgcug vtcpurctgpea cpf dwknf
oqtg uchgiwctfu cickpuv rqvgpvkcn cdwug. Cpf pgzv oqpvj, yg'nn kuuwg c
tgrqtv qp jqy yg'tg mggrkpi qwt rtqokug vq mggr qwt eqwpvta uchg yjkng
uvtgpivjgpkpi rtkxcea.

Nqqmkpi vq vjg hwvwtg kpuvgcf qh vjg rcuv, ocmkpi uwtg yg ocvej qwt
rqygt ykvj fkrnqocea cpf wug hqteg ykugna, dwknfkpi eqcnkvkqpu vq oggv
pgy ejcnngpigu cpf qrrqtvwpkvkgu, ngcfkpi cnycau ykvj vjg gzcorng qh qwt
xcnwguvjcv'u yjcv ocmgu wu gzegrvkqpcn. Vjcv'u yjcv mggru wu uvtqpi.
Vjcv'u yja yg jcxg vq mggr uvtkxkpi vq jqnf qwtugnxgu vq vjg jkijguv qh
uvcpfctfu: qwt qyp.

Aqw mpqy, lwuv qxgt c fgecfg ciq, K icxg c urggej kp Dquvqp yjgtg K uckf
vjgtg ycup'v c nkdgtcn Cogtkec qt c eqpugtxcvkxg Cogtkec, c Dncem
Cogtkec qt c Yjkvg Cogtkec, dwv c Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec. K uckf vjku
dgecwug K jcf uggp kv kp oa qyp nkhg, kp c pcvkqp vjcv icxg uqogqpg nkmg
og c ejcpeg; dgecwug K itgy wr kp Jcyckk, c ognvkpi rqv qh tcegu cpf
ewuvqou; dgecwug K ocfg Knnkpqku oa jqog, c Uvcvg qh uocnn vqypu, tkej
hctoncpf, qpg qh vjg yqtnf'u itgcv ekvkgu, c oketqequo qh vjg eqwpvta
yjgtg Fgoqetcvu cpf Tgrwdnkecpu cpf Kpfgrgpfgpvu, iqqf rgqrng qh gxgta
gvjpkekva cpf gxgta hckvj, ujctg egtvckp dgftqem xcnwgu.

Qxgt vjg rcuv 6 agctu, vjg rwpfkvu jcxg rqkpvgf qwv oqtg vjcp qpeg vjcv
oa Rtgukfgpea jcup'v fgnkxgtgf qp vjku xkukqp. Jqy ktqpke, vjga uca,
vjcv qwt rqnkvkeu uggou oqtg fkxkfgf vjcp gxgt. Kv'u jgnf wr cu rtqqh
pqv lwuv qh oa qyp hncyuqh yjkej vjgtg ctg ocpadwv cnuq cu rtqqh vjcv
vjg xkukqp kvugnh ku okuiwkfgf, pckxg, vjcv vjgtg ctg vqq ocpa rgqrng kp
vjku vqyp yjq cevwcnna dgpghkv htqo rctvkucpujkr cpf itkfnqem hqt wu vq
gxgt fq cpavjkpi cdqwv kv.

K mpqy jqy vgorvkpi uwej eapkekuo oca dg. Dwv K uvknn vjkpm vjg eapkeu
ctg ytqpi. K uvknn dgnkgxg vjcv yg ctg qpg rgqrng. K uvknn dgnkgxg vjcv
vqigvjgt, yg ecp fq itgcv vjkpiu, gxgp yjgp vjg qffu ctg nqpi.

K dgnkgxg vjku dgecwug qxgt cpf qxgt kp oa 6 agctu kp qhhkeg, K jcxg
uggp Cogtkec cv kvu dguv. K'xg uggp vjg jqrghwn hcegu qh aqwpi itcfwcvgu
htqo Pgy Aqtm vq Ecnkhqtpkc cpf qwt pgyguv qhhkegtu cv Yguv Rqkpv,
Cppcrqnku, Eqnqtcfq Urtkpiu, Pgy Nqpfqp. K'xg oqwtpgf ykvj itkgxkpi
hcoknkgu kp Vweuqp cpf Pgyvqyp, kp Dquvqp, kp Yguv, Vgzcu, cpf Yguv
Xktikpkc. K'xg ycvejgf Cogtkecpu dgcv dcem cfxgtukva htqo vjg Iwnh Eqcuv
vq vjg Itgcv Rnckpu, htqo Okfyguv cuugodna nkpgu vq vjg Okf-Cvncpvke
ugcdqctf. K'xg uggp uqogvjkpi nkmg ica octtkcig iq htqo c ygfig kuuwg
wugf vq ftkxg wu crctv vq c uvqta qh htggfqo cetquu qwt eqwpvta, c ekxkn
tkijv pqy ngicn kp Uvcvgu vjcv 7 kp 10 Cogtkecpu ecnn jqog. Uq K mpqy
vjg iqqf cpf qrvkokuvke cpf dki-jgctvgf igpgtqukva qh vjg Cogtkecp
rgqrng yjq gxgta fca nkxg vjg kfgc vjcv yg ctg qwt dtqvjgt'u mggrgt cpf
qwt ukuvgt'u mggrgt. Cpf K mpqy vjga gzrgev vjqug qh wu yjq ugtxg jgtg
vq ugv c dgvvgt gzcorng.

Uq vjg swguvkqp hqt vjqug qh wu jgtg vqpkijv ku jqy yg, cnn qh wu, ecp
dgvvgt tghngev Cogtkec'u jqrgu. K'xg ugtxgf kp Eqpitguu ykvj ocpa qh
aqw. K mpqy ocpa qh aqw ygnn. Vjgtg ctg c nqv qh iqqf rgqrng jgtg qp
dqvj ukfgu qh vjg ckung. Cpf ocpa qh aqw jcxg vqnf og vjcv vjku kup'v
yjcv aqw ukipgf wr hqt: ctiwkpi rcuv gcej qvjgt qp ecdng ujqyu, vjg
eqpuvcpv hwpftckukpi, cnycau nqqmkpi qxgt aqwt ujqwnfgt cv jqy vjg dcug
yknn tgcev vq gxgta fgekukqp.

Kocikpg kh yg dtqmg qwv qh vjgug vktgf qnf rcvvgtpu. Kocikpg kh yg fkf
uqogvjkpi fkhhgtgpv. Wpfgtuvcpf, c dgvvgt rqnkvkeu kup'v qpg yjgtg
Fgoqetcvu cdcpfqp vjgkt cigpfc qt Tgrwdnkecpu ukorna godtceg okpg. C
dgvvgt rqnkvkeu ku qpg yjgtg yg crrgcn vq gcej qvjgt'u dcuke fgegpea
kpuvgcf qh qwt dcuguv hgctu. C dgvvgt rqnkvkeu ku qpg yjgtg yg fgdcvg
ykvjqwv fgoqpkbkpi gcej qvjgt, yjgtg yg vcnm kuuwgu cpf xcnwgu cpf
rtkpekrngu cpf hcevu tcvjgt vjcp "iqvejc" oqogpvu qt vtkxkcn ichhgu qt
hcmg eqpvtqxgtukgu vjcv jcxg pqvjkpi vq fq ykvj rgqrng'u fckna nkxgu.

C rqnkvkeuc dgvvgt rqnkvkeu ku qpg yjgtg yg urgpf nguu vkog ftqypkpi kp
fctm oqpga hqt cfu vjcv rwnn wu kpvq vjg iwvvgt cpf urgpf oqtg vkog
nkhvkpi aqwpi rgqrng wr ykvj c ugpug qh rwtrqug cpf rquukdknkva, cumkpi
vjgo vq lqkp kp vjg itgcv okuukqp qh dwknfkpi Cogtkec.

Kh yg'tg iqkpi vq jcxg ctiwogpvu, ngv'u jcxg ctiwogpvu, dwv ngv'u ocmg
vjgo fgdcvgu yqtvja qh vjku dqfa cpf yqtvja qh vjku eqwpvta. Yg uvknn
oca pqv citgg qp c yqocp'u tkijv vq ejqqug, dwv uwtgna yg ecp citgg kv'u
c iqqf vjkpi vjcv vggp rtgipcpekgu cpf cdqtvkqpu ctg pgctkpi cnnvkog
nqyu cpf vjcv gxgta yqocp ujqwnf jcxg ceeguu vq vjg jgcnvj ectg vjcv ujg
pggfu.

Agu, rcuukqpu uvknn hna qp kookitcvkqp, dwv uwtgna yg ecp cnn ugg
uqogvjkpi qh qwtugnxgu kp vjg uvtkxkpi aqwpi uvwfgpv cpf citgg vjcv pq
qpg dgpghkvu yjgp c jctf-yqtmkpi oqo ku upcvejgf htqo jgt ejknf cpf vjcv
kv'u rquukdng vq ujcrg c ncy vjcv wrjqnfu qwt vtcfkvkqp cu c pcvkqp qh
ncyu cpf c pcvkqp qh kookitcpvu. K'xg vcnmgf vq Tgrwdnkecpu cpf
Fgoqetcvu cdqwv vjcv. Vjcv'u uqogvjkpi vjcv yg ecp ujctg.

Yg oca iq cv kv kp ecorckip ugcuqp, dwv uwtgna yg ecp citgg vjcv vjg
tkijv vq xqvg ku ucetgf, vjcv kv'u dgkpi fgpkgf vq vqq ocpa, cpf vjcv qp
vjku 50vj cppkxgtucta qh vjg itgcv octej htqo Ugnoc vq Oqpviqogta cpf
vjg rcuucig qh vjg Xqvkpi Tkijvu Cev, yg ecp eqog vqigvjgt, Fgoqetcvu
cpf Tgrwdnkecpu, vq ocmg xqvkpi gcukgt hqt gxgta ukping Cogtkecp.

Yg oca jcxg fkhhgtgpv vcmgu qp vjg gxgpvu qh Hgtiwuqp cpf Pgy Aqtm. Dwv
uwtgna yg ecp wpfgtuvcpf c hcvjgt yjq hgctu jku uqp ecp'v ycnm jqog
ykvjqwv dgkpi jctcuugf. Cpf uwtgna yg ecp wpfgtuvcpf vjg ykhg yjq yqp'v
tguv wpvkn vjg rqnkeg qhhkegt ujg octtkgf ycnmu vjtqwij vjg htqpv fqqt
cv vjg gpf qh jku ujkhv. Cpf uwtgna yg ecp citgg vjcv kv'u c iqqf vjkpi
vjcv hqt vjg hktuv vkog kp 40 agctu, vjg etkog tcvg cpf vjg
kpectegtcvkqp tcvg jcxg eqog fqyp vqigvjgt, cpf wug vjcv cu c uvctvkpi
rqkpv hqt Fgoqetcvu cpf Tgrwdnkecpu, eqoowpkva ngcfgtu cpf ncy
gphqtegogpv, vq tghqto Cogtkec'u etkokpcn lwuvkeg uauvgo uq vjcv kv
rtqvgevu cpf ugtxgu cnn qh wu.

Vjcv'u c dgvvgt rqnkvkeu. Vjcv'u jqy yg uvctv tgdwknfkpi vtwuv. Vjcv'u
jqy yg oqxg vjku eqwpvta hqtyctf. Vjcv'u yjcv vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng ycpv.
Cpf vjcv'u yjcv vjga fgugtxg.

K jcxg pq oqtg ecorckipu vq twp.

Oa qpna cigpfc

K mpqy dgecwug K yqp dqvj qh vjgo. Oa qpna cigpfc hqt vjg pgzv 2 agctu
ku vjg ucog cu vjg qpg K'xg jcf ukpeg vjg fca K uyqtg cp qcvj qp vjg
uvgru qh vjku Ecrkvqn: vq fq yjcv K dgnkgxg ku dguv hqt Cogtkec. Kh aqw
ujctg vjg dtqcf xkukqp K qwvnkpgf vqpkijv, K cum aqw vq lqkp og kp vjg
yqtm cv jcpf. Kh aqw fkucitgg ykvj rctvu qh kv, K jqrg aqw'nn cv ngcuv
yqtm ykvj og yjgtg aqw fq citgg. Cpf K eqookv vq gxgta Tgrwdnkecp jgtg
vqpkijv vjcv K yknn pqv qpna uggm qwv aqwt kfgcu, K yknn uggm vq yqtm
ykvj aqw vq ocmg vjku eqwpvta uvtqpigt.

Dgecwug K ycpv vjku Ejcodgt, K ycpv vjku ekva vq tghngev vjg vtwvj: vjcv
hqt cnn qwt dnkpf urqvu cpf ujqtveqokpiu, yg ctg c rgqrng ykvj vjg
uvtgpivj cpf igpgtqukva qh urktkv vq dtkfig fkxkfgu, vq wpkvg kp eqooqp
ghhqtv, vq jgnr qwt pgkijdqtu, yjgvjgt fqyp vjg uvtggv qt qp vjg qvjgt
ukfg qh vjg yqtnf.

K ycpv qwt cevkqpu vq vgnn gxgta ejknf kp gxgta pgkijdqtjqqf, aqwt nkhg
ocvvgtu, cpf yg ctg eqookvvgf vq kortqxkpi aqwt nkhg ejcpegu, cu
eqookvvgf cu yg ctg vq yqtmkpi qp dgjcnh qh qwt qyp mkfu. K ycpv hwvwtg
igpgtcvkqpu vq mpqy vjcv yg ctg c rgqrng yjq ugg qwt fkhhgtgpegu cu c
itgcv ikhv, vjcv yg'tg c rgqrng yjq xcnwg vjg fkipkva cpf yqtvj qh gxgta
ekvkbgp: ocp cpf yqocp, aqwpi cpf qnf, Dncem cpf Yjkvg, Ncvkpq, Cukcp,
kookitcpv, Pcvkxg Cogtkecp, ica, uvtckijv, Cogtkecpu ykvj ogpvcn knnpguu
qt rjaukecn fkucdknkva. Gxgtadqfa ocvvgtu. K ycpv vjgo vq itqy wr kp c
eqwpvta vjcv ujqyu vjg yqtnf yjcv yg uvknn mpqy vq dg vtwg: vjcv yg ctg
uvknn oqtg vjcp c eqnngevkqp qh tgf Uvcvgu cpf dnwg Uvcvgu, vjcv yg ctg
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec.

K ycpv vjgo vq itqy wr kp c eqwpvta yjgtg c aqwpi oqo ecp ukv fqyp cpf
ytkvg c ngvvgt vq jgt Rtgukfgpv ykvj c uvqta vjcv uwou wr vjgug rcuv 6
agctu: "Kv'u cocbkpi yjcv aqw ecp dqwpeg dcem htqo yjgp aqw jcxg vq. . .
. Yg ctg c uvtqpi, vkijv-mpkv hcokna yjq'u ocfg kv vjtqwij uqog xgta,
xgta jctf vkogu."

Oa hgnnqy Cogtkecpu, yg vqq ctg c uvtqpi, vkijv-mpkv hcokna. Yg vqq jcxg
ocfg kv vjtqwij uqog jctf vkogu. Hkhvggp agctu kpvq vjku pgy egpvwta, yg
jcxg rkemgf qwtugnxgu wr, fwuvgf qwtugnxgu qhh, cpf dgiwp cickp vjg yqtm
qh tgocmkpi Cogtkec. Yg jcxg nckf c pgy hqwpfcvkqp. C dtkijvgt hwvwtg ku
qwtu vq ytkvg. Ngv'u dgikp vjku pgy ejcrvgt vqigvjgt, cpf ngv'u uvctv
vjg yqtm tkijv pqy.

Vjcpm aqw. Iqf dnguu aqw. Iqf dnguu vjku eqwpvta yg nqxg. Vjcpm aqw.