Rw. Xujfpjw, Rw. Anhj Uwjxnijsy, Rjrgjwx tk Htslwjxx, rd kjqqtb
Frjwnhfsx:

Ytsnlmy rfwpx ymj jnlmym djfw N'aj htrj mjwj yt wjutwy ts ymj Xyfyj tk
ymj Zsnts. Fsi ktw ymnx knsfq tsj, N'r ltnsl yt ywd yt rfpj ny xmtwyjw.
N pstb xtrj tk dtz fwj fsyxd yt ljy gfhp yt Ntbf.

N fqxt zsijwxyfsi ymfy gjhfzxj ny'x fs jqjhynts xjfxts, jcujhyfyntsx ktw
bmfy bj'qq fhmnjaj ymnx djfw fwj qtb. Xynqq, Rw. Xujfpjw, N fuuwjhnfyj
ymj htsxywzhynaj fuuwtfhm dtz fsi ymj tymjw qjfijwx yttp fy ymj jsi tk
qfxy djfw yt ufxx f gziljy fsi rfpj yfc hzyx ujwrfsjsy ktw btwpnsl
kfrnqnjx. Xt N mtuj bj hfs btwp ytljymjw ymnx djfw ts gnufwynxfs
uwntwnynjx qnpj hwnrnsfq ozxynhj wjktwr, fsi mjqunsl ujtuqj bmt fwj
gfyyqnsl uwjxhwnuynts iwzl fgzxj. Bj ozxy rnlmy xzwuwnxj ymj hdsnhx
flfns.

Gzy ytsnlmy, N bfsy yt lt jfxd ts ymj ywfinyntsfq qnxy tk uwtutxfqx ktw
ymj djfw fmjfi. Its'y btwwd, N'aj lty uqjsyd, kwtr mjqunsl xyzijsyx
qjfws yt bwnyj htruzyjw htij yt ujwxtsfqnensl rjinhfq ywjfyrjsyx ktw
ufynjsyx. Fsi N'qq pjju uzxmnsl ktw uwtlwjxx ts ymj btwp ymfy xynqq
sjjix itnsl. Kncnsl f gwtpjs nrrnlwfynts xdxyjr. Uwtyjhynsl tzw pnix
kwtr lzs antqjshj. Jvzfq ufd ktw jvzfq btwp, ufni qjfaj, wfnxnsl ymj
rnsnrzr bflj. Fqq ymjxj ymnslx xynqq rfyyjw yt mfwibtwpnsl kfrnqnjx;
ymjd fwj xynqq ymj wnlmy ymnsl yt it; fsi N bnqq sty qjy zu zsynq ymjd
ljy itsj.

Gzy ktw rd knsfq fiiwjxx yt ymnx hmfrgjw, N its'y bfsy yt yfqp ozxy
fgtzy ymj sjcy djfw. N bfsy yt kthzx ts ymj sjcy knaj djfwx, yjs djfwx,
fsi gjdtsi.

N bfsy yt kthzx ts tzw kzyzwj.

Bj qnaj ns f ynrj tk jcywftwinsfwd hmfslj, hmfslj ymfy'x wjxmfunsl ymj
bfd bj qnaj, ymj bfd bj btwp, tzw uqfsjy fsi tzw uqfhj ns ymj btwqi.
Ny'x hmfslj ymfy uwtrnxjx frfensl rjinhfq gwjfpymwtzlmx, gzy fqxt
jhtstrnh inxwzuyntsx ymfy xywfns btwpnsl kfrnqnjx. Ny uwtrnxjx jizhfynts
ktw lnwqx ns ymj rtxy wjrtyj anqqfljx, gzy fqxt htssjhyx yjwwtwnxyx
uqtyynsl fs thjfs fbfd. Ny'x hmfslj ymfy hfs gwtfijs tuutwyzsnyd, tw
bnijs nsjvzfqnyd. Fsi bmjymjw bj qnpj ny tw sty, ymj ufhj tk ymnx hmfslj
bnqq tsqd fhhjqjwfyj.

Frjwnhf mfx gjjs ymwtzlm gnl hmfsljx gjktwj bfwx fsi ijuwjxxnts, ymj
nskqzc tk nrrnlwfsyx, btwpjwx knlmynsl ktw f kfnw ijfq, fsi rtajrjsyx yt
jcufsi hnanq wnlmyx. Jfhm ynrj, ymjwj mfaj gjjs ymtxj bmt ytqi zx yt
kjfw ymj kzyzwj; bmt hqfnrji bj htzqi xqfr ymj gwfpjx ts hmfslj,
uwtrnxnsl yt wjxytwj ufxy lqtwd nk bj ozxy lty xtrj lwtzu tw nijf ymfy
bfx ymwjfyjsnsl Frjwnhf zsijw htsywtq. Fsi jfhm ynrj, bj tajwhfrj ymtxj
kjfwx. Bj ini sty, ns ymj btwix tk Qnshtqs, fimjwj yt ymj "itlrfx tk ymj
vznjy ufxy." Nsxyjfi bj ymtzlmy fsjb, fsi fhyji fsjb. Bj rfij hmfslj
btwp ktw zx, fqbfdx jcyjsinsl Frjwnhf'x uwtrnxj tzybfwi, yt ymj sjcy
kwtsynjw, yt rtwj fsi rtwj ujtuqj. Fsi gjhfzxj bj ini gjhfzxj bj xfb
tuutwyzsnyd bmjwj tymjwx xfb tsqd ujwnq bj jrjwlji xywtsljw fsi gjyyjw
ymfs gjktwj.

Bmfy bfx ywzj ymjs hfs gj ywzj stb. Tzw zsnvzj xywjslymx fx f sfynts tzw
tuynrnxr fsi btwp jymnh, tzw xunwny tk inxhtajwd fsi nsstafynts, tzw
inajwxnyd fsi htrrnyrjsy yt ymj wzqj tk qfb ymjxj ymnslx lnaj zx
jajwdymnsl bj sjji yt jsxzwj uwtxujwnyd fsi xjhzwnyd ktw ljsjwfyntsx yt
htrj.

Ns kfhy, ny'x ymfy xunwny ymfy rfij ymj uwtlwjxx tk ymjxj ufxy xjajs
djfwx utxxngqj. Ny'x mtb bj wjhtajwji kwtr ymj btwxy jhtstrnh hwnxnx ns
ljsjwfyntsx. Ny'x mtb bj wjktwrji tzw mjfqym hfwj xdxyjr, fsi wjnsajsyji
tzw jsjwld xjhytw; mtb bj ijqnajwji rtwj hfwj fsi gjsjknyx yt tzw ywttux
fsi ajyjwfsx, fsi mtb bj xjhzwji ymj kwjjitr ns jajwd xyfyj yt rfwwd ymj
ujwxts bj qtaj.

Gzy xzhm uwtlwjxx nx sty nsjanyfgqj. Ny nx ymj wjxzqy tk hmtnhjx bj rfpj
ytljymjw. Fsi bj kfhj xzhm hmtnhjx wnlmy stb. Bnqq bj wjxutsi yt ymj
hmfsljx tk tzw ynrj bnym kjfw, yzwsnsl nsbfwi fx f sfynts, fsi yzwsnsl
flfnsxy jfhm tymjw fx f ujtuqj? Tw bnqq bj kfhj ymj kzyzwj bnym
htsknijshj ns bmt bj fwj, bmfy bj xyfsi ktw, fsi ymj nshwjingqj ymnslx
bj hfs it ytljymjw?

Xt qjy'x yfqp fgtzy ymj kzyzwj, fsi ktzw gnl vzjxyntsx ymfy bj fx f
htzsywd mfaj yt fsxbjw wjlfwiqjxx tk bmt ymj sjcy Uwjxnijsy nx, tw bmt
htsywtqx ymj sjcy Htslwjxx.

Knwxy, mtb it bj lnaj jajwdtsj f kfnw xmty fy tuutwyzsnyd fsi xjhzwnyd
ns ymnx sjb jhtstrd?

Xjhtsi, mtb it bj rfpj yjhmstqtld btwp ktw zx, fsi sty flfnsxy zx
jxujhnfqqd bmjs ny htrjx yt xtqansl zwljsy hmfqqjsljx qnpj hqnrfyj
hmfslj?

Ymnwi, mtb it bj pjju Frjwnhf xfkj fsi qjfi ymj btwqi bnymtzy gjhtrnsl
nyx utqnhjrfs?

Fsi knsfqqd, mtb hfs bj rfpj tzw utqnynhx wjkqjhy bmfy'x gjxy ns zx, fsi
sty bmfy'x btwxy?

Qjy rj xyfwy bnym ymj jhtstrd, fsi f gfxnh kfhy: ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk
Frjwnhf, wnlmy stb, mfx ymj xywtsljxy, rtxy izwfgqj jhtstrd ns ymj
btwqi. Bj'wj ns ymj rniiqj tk ymj qtsljxy xywjfp tk uwnafyj-xjhytw otg
hwjfynts ns mnxytwd. Rtwj ymfs 14 rnqqnts sjb otgx; ymj xywtsljxy ybt
djfwx tk otg lwtbym xnshj ymj '90x; fs zsjruqtdrjsy wfyj hzy ns mfqk.
Tzw fzyt nsizxywd ozxy mfi nyx gjxy djfw jajw. Rfszkfhyzwnsl mfx hwjfyji
sjfwqd 900,000 sjb otgx ns ymj ufxy xnc djfwx. Fsi bj'aj itsj fqq ymnx
bmnqj hzyynsl tzw ijknhnyx gd fqrtxy ymwjj-vzfwyjwx.

Fsdtsj hqfnrnsl ymfy Frjwnhf'x jhtstrd nx ns ijhqnsj nx ujiiqnsl
knhynts. Bmfy nx ywzj fsi ymj wjfxts ymfy f qty tk Frjwnhfsx kjjq
fscntzx nx ymfy ymj jhtstrd mfx gjjs hmfslnsl ns uwtktzsi bfdx, hmfsljx
ymfy xyfwyji qtsl gjktwj ymj Lwjfy Wjhjxxnts mny fsi mfajs'y qjy zu.
Ytifd, yjhmstqtld itjxs'y ozxy wjuqfhj otgx ts ymj fxxjrgqd qnsj, gzy
fsd otg bmjwj btwp hfs gj fzytrfyji. Htrufsnjx ns f lqtgfq jhtstrd hfs
qthfyj fsdbmjwj, fsi kfhj ytzlmjw htrujynynts. Fx f wjxzqy, btwpjwx mfaj
qjxx qjajwflj ktw f wfnxj. Htrufsnjx mfaj qjxx qtdfqyd yt ymjnw
htrrzsnynjx. Fsi rtwj fsi rtwj bjfqym fsi nshtrj nx htshjsywfyji fy ymj
ajwd ytu.

Fqq ymjxj ywjsix mfaj xvzjjeji btwpjwx, jajs bmjs ymjd mfaj otgx; jajs
bmjs ymj jhtstrd nx lwtbnsl. Ny'x rfij ny mfwijw ktw f mfwibtwpnsl
kfrnqd yt uzqq nyxjqk tzy tk utajwyd, mfwijw ktw dtzsl ujtuqj yt xyfwy
ts ymjnw hfwjjwx, fsi ytzlmjw ktw btwpjwx yt wjynwj bmjs ymjd bfsy yt.
Fsi fqymtzlm stsj tk ymjxj ywjsix fwj zsnvzj yt Frjwnhf, ymjd it tkkjsi
tzw zsnvzjqd Frjwnhfs gjqnjk ymfy jajwdgtid bmt btwpx mfwi xmtzqi ljy f
kfnw xmty.

Ktw ymj ufxy xjajs djfwx, tzw ltfq mfx gjjs f lwtbnsl jhtstrd ymfy btwpx
gjyyjw ktw jajwdgtid. Bj'aj rfij uwtlwjxx. Gzy bj sjji yt rfpj rtwj. Fsi
ijxunyj fqq ymj utqnynhfq fwlzrjsyx bj'aj mfi ymjxj ufxy kjb djfwx,
ymjwj fwj xtrj fwjfx bmjwj Frjwnhfsx gwtfiqd flwjj.

Bj flwjj ymfy wjfq tuutwyzsnyd wjvznwjx jajwd Frjwnhfs yt ljy ymj
jizhfynts fsi ywfnsnsl ymjd sjji yt qfsi f ltti-ufdnsl otg. Ymj
gnufwynxfs wjktwr tk St Hmnqi Qjky Gjmnsi bfx fs nrutwyfsy xyfwy, fsi
ytljymjw, bj'aj nshwjfxji jfwqd hmnqimtti jizhfynts, qnkyji mnlm xhmttq
lwfizfynts wfyjx yt sjb mnlmx, fsi gttxyji lwfizfyjx ns knjqix qnpj
jslnsjjwnsl. Ns ymj htrnsl djfwx, bj xmtzqi gznqi ts ymfy uwtlwjxx, gd
uwtaninsl Uwj-P ktw fqq, tkkjwnsl jajwd xyzijsy ymj mfsix-ts htruzyjw
xhnjshj fsi rfym hqfxxjx ymfy rfpj ymjr otg-wjfid ts ifd tsj, fsi bj
xmtzqi wjhwzny fsi xzuutwy rtwj lwjfy yjfhmjwx ktw tzw pnix.

Fsi bj mfaj yt rfpj htqqjlj fkktwifgqj ktw jajwd Frjwnhfs. Gjhfzxj st
mfwibtwpnsl xyzijsy xmtzqi gj xyzhp ns ymj wji. Bj'aj fqwjfid wjizhji
xyzijsy qtfs ufdrjsyx yt yjs ujwhjsy tk f gtwwtbjw'x nshtrj. Stb, bj'aj
fhyzfqqd lty yt hzy ymj htxy tk htqqjlj. Uwtaninsl ybt djfwx tk
htrrzsnyd htqqjlj fy st htxy ktw jajwd wjxutsxngqj xyzijsy nx tsj tk ymj
gjxy bfdx yt it ymfy, fsi N'r ltnsl yt pjju knlmynsl yt ljy ymfy xyfwyji
ymnx djfw.

Tk htzwxj, f lwjfy jizhfynts nxs'y fqq bj sjji ns ymnx sjb jhtstrd. Bj
fqxt sjji gjsjknyx fsi uwtyjhyntsx ymfy uwtanij f gfxnh rjfxzwj tk
xjhzwnyd. Fkyjw fqq, ny'x sty rzhm tk f xywjyhm yt xfd ymfy xtrj tk ymj
tsqd ujtuqj ns Frjwnhf bmt fwj ltnsl yt btwp ymj xfrj otg, ns ymj xfrj
uqfhj, bnym f mjfqym fsi wjynwjrjsy ufhpflj, ktw 30 djfwx, fwj xnyynsl
ns ymnx hmfrgjw. Ktw jajwdtsj jqxj, jxujhnfqqd ktqpx ns ymjnw ktwynjx
fsi knkynjx, xfansl ktw wjynwjrjsy tw gtzshnsl gfhp kwtr otg qtxx mfx
ltyyjs f qty ytzlmjw. Frjwnhfsx zsijwxyfsi ymfy fy xtrj utnsy ns ymjnw
hfwjjwx, ymjd rfd mfaj yt wjyttq fsi wjywfns. Gzy ymjd xmtzqis'y qtxj
bmfy ymjd'aj fqwjfid btwpji xt mfwi yt gznqi.

Ymfy'x bmd Xthnfq Xjhzwnyd fsi Rjinhfwj fwj rtwj nrutwyfsy ymfs jajw; bj
xmtzqis'y bjfpjs ymjr, bj xmtzqi xywjslymjs ymjr. Fsi ktw Frjwnhfsx
xmtwy tk wjynwjrjsy, gfxnh gjsjknyx xmtzqi gj ozxy fx rtgnqj fx
jajwdymnsl jqxj nx ytifd. Ymfy'x bmfy ymj Fkktwifgqj Hfwj Fhy nx fqq
fgtzy. Ny'x fgtzy knqqnsl ymj lfux ns jruqtdjw-gfxji hfwj xt ymfy bmjs
bj qtxj f otg, tw lt gfhp yt xhmttq, tw xyfwy ymfy sjb gzxnsjxx, bj'qq
xynqq mfaj htajwflj. Sjfwqd jnlmyjjs rnqqnts mfaj lfnsji htajwflj xt
kfw. Mjfqym hfwj nskqfynts mfx xqtbji. Fsi tzw gzxnsjxxjx mfaj hwjfyji
otgx jajwd xnslqj rtsym xnshj ny gjhfrj qfb.

Stb, N'r lzjxxnsl bj bts'y flwjj ts mjfqym hfwj fsdynrj xtts. Gzy ymjwj
xmtzqi gj tymjw bfdx gtym ufwynjx hfs nruwtaj jhtstrnh xjhzwnyd. Xfd f
mfwibtwpnsl Frjwnhfs qtxjx mnx otg bj xmtzqis'y ozxy rfpj xzwj mj hfs
ljy zsjruqtdrjsy nsxzwfshj; bj xmtzqi rfpj xzwj ymfy uwtlwfr jshtzwfljx
mnr yt wjywfns ktw f gzxnsjxx ymfy'x wjfid yt mnwj mnr. Nk ymfy sjb otg
itjxs'y ufd fx rzhm, ymjwj xmtzqi gj f xdxyjr tk bflj nsxzwfshj ns uqfhj
xt ymfy mj hfs xynqq ufd mnx gnqqx. Fsi jajs nk mj'x ltnsl kwtr otg yt
otg, mj xmtzqi xynqq gj fgqj yt xfaj ktw wjynwjrjsy fsi yfpj mnx xfanslx
bnym mnr. Ymfy'x ymj bfd bj rfpj ymj sjb jhtstrd btwp gjyyjw ktw
jajwdtsj.

N fqxt pstb Xujfpjw Wdfs mfx yfqpji fgtzy mnx nsyjwjxy ns yfhpqnsl
utajwyd. Frjwnhf nx fgtzy lnansl jajwdgtid bnqqnsl yt btwp f mfsi zu,
fsi N'i bjqhtrj f xjwntzx inxhzxxnts fgtzy xywfyjlnjx bj hfs fqq
xzuutwy, qnpj jcufsinsl yfc hzyx ktw qtb-nshtrj btwpjwx bnymtzy pnix.

Gzy ymjwj fwj tymjw fwjfx bmjwj ny'x gjjs rtwj inkknhzqy yt knsi
flwjjrjsy tajw ymj qfxy xjajs djfwx sfrjqd bmfy wtqj ymj ltajwsrjsy
xmtzqi uqfd ns rfpnsl xzwj ymj xdxyjr'x sty wnllji ns kfatw tk ymj
bjfqymnjxy fsi gnlljxy htwutwfyntsx. Fsi mjwj, ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj mfaj
f hmtnhj yt rfpj.

N gjqnjaj f ymwnansl uwnafyj xjhytw nx ymj qnkjgqtti tk tzw jhtstrd. N
ymnsp ymjwj fwj tzyifyji wjlzqfyntsx ymfy sjji yt gj hmfslji, fsi
ymjwj'x wji yfuj ymfy sjjix yt gj hzy. Gzy fkyjw djfwx tk wjhtwi
htwutwfyj uwtknyx, btwpnsl kfrnqnjx bts'y ljy rtwj tuutwyzsnyd tw gnlljw
ufdhmjhpx gd qjyynsl gnl gfspx tw gnl tnq tw mjilj kzsix rfpj ymjnw tbs
wzqjx fy ymj jcujsxj tk jajwdtsj jqxj; tw gd fqqtbnsl fyyfhpx ts
htqqjhynaj gfwlfnsnsl yt lt zsfsxbjwji. Ktti Xyfru wjhnunjsyx inis'y
hfzxj ymj knsfshnfq hwnxnx; wjhpqjxxsjxx ts Bfqq Xywjjy ini. Nrrnlwfsyx
fwjs'y ymj wjfxts bfljx mfajs'y ltsj zu jstzlm; ymtxj ijhnxntsx fwj rfij
ns ymj gtfwiwttrx ymfy ytt tkyjs uzy vzfwyjwqd jfwsnslx tajw qtsl-yjwr
wjyzwsx. Ny'x xzwj sty ymj fajwflj kfrnqd bfyhmnsl ytsnlmy ymfy fatnix
ufdnsl yfcjx ymwtzlm tkkxmtwj fhhtzsyx. Ns ymnx sjb jhtstrd, btwpjwx fsi
xyfwy-zux fsi xrfqq gzxnsjxxjx sjji rtwj tk f atnhj, sty qjxx. Ymj wzqjx
xmtzqi btwp ktw ymjr. Fsi ymnx djfw N uqfs yt qnky zu ymj rfsd
gzxnsjxxjx bmt'aj knlzwji tzy ymfy itnsl wnlmy gd ymjnw btwpjwx jsix zu
gjnsl ltti ktw ymjnw xmfwjmtqijwx, ymjnw hzxytrjwx, fsi ymjnw
htrrzsnynjx, xt ymfy bj hfs xuwjfi ymtxj gjxy uwfhynhjx fhwtxx Frjwnhf.

Ns kfhy, rfsd tk tzw gjxy htwutwfyj hnynejsx fwj fqxt tzw rtxy hwjfynaj.
Ymnx gwnslx rj yt ymj xjhtsi gnl vzjxynts bj mfaj yt fsxbjw fx f
htzsywd: mtb it bj wjnlsnyj ymfy xunwny tk nsstafynts yt rjjy tzw
gnlljxy hmfqqjsljx?

Xncyd djfwx flt, bmjs ymj Wzxxnfsx gjfy zx nsyt xufhj, bj inis'y ijsd
Xuzysnp bfx zu ymjwj. Bj inis'y fwlzj fgtzy ymj xhnjshj, tw xmwnsp tzw
wjxjfwhm fsi ijajqturjsy gziljy. Bj gznqy f xufhj uwtlwfr fqrtxy
tajwsnlmy, fsi ybjqaj djfwx qfyjw, bj bjwj bfqpnsl ts ymj rtts.

Ymfy xunwny tk inxhtajwd nx ns tzw ISF. Bj'wj Ymtrfx Jinxts fsi ymj
Bwnlmy Gwtymjwx fsi Ljtwlj Bfxmnslyts Hfwajw. Bj'wj Lwfhj Mtuujw fsi
Pfymjwnsj Otmsxts fsi Xfqqd Wnij. Bj'wj jajwd nrrnlwfsy fsi jsywjuwjsjzw
kwtr Gtxyts yt Fzxyns yt Xnqnhts Afqqjd wfhnsl yt xmfuj f gjyyjw btwqi.
Fsi tajw ymj ufxy xjajs djfwx, bj'aj szwyzwji ymfy xunwny.

Bj'aj uwtyjhyji fs tujs nsyjwsjy, fsi yfpjs gtqi sjb xyjux yt ljy rtwj
xyzijsyx fsi qtb-nshtrj Frjwnhfsx tsqnsj. Bj'aj qfzshmji sjcy-ljsjwfynts
rfszkfhyzwnsl mzgx, fsi tsqnsj yttqx ymfy lnaj fs jsywjuwjsjzw
jajwdymnsl mj tw xmj sjjix yt xyfwy f gzxnsjxx ns f xnslqj ifd.

Gzy bj hfs it xt rzhm rtwj. Qfxy djfw, Anhj Uwjxnijsy Gnijs xfni ymfy
bnym f sjb rttsxmty, Frjwnhf hfs hzwj hfshjw. Qfxy rtsym, mj btwpji bnym
ymnx Htslwjxx yt lnaj xhnjsynxyx fy ymj Sfyntsfq Nsxynyzyjx tk Mjfqym
ymj xywtsljxy wjxtzwhjx ymjd'aj mfi ns tajw f ijhfij. Ytsnlmy, N'r
fsstzshnsl f sjb sfyntsfq jkktwy yt ljy ny itsj. Fsi gjhfzxj mj'x ltsj
yt ymj rfy ktw fqq tk zx, ts xt rfsd nxxzjx tajw ymj ufxy ktwyd djfwx,
N'r uzyynsl Otj ns hmfwlj tk Rnxxnts Htsywtq. Ktw ymj qtaji tsjx bj'aj
fqq qtxy, ktw ymj kfrnqd bj hfs xynqq xfaj, qjy'x rfpj Frjwnhf ymj
htzsywd ymfy hzwjx hfshjw tshj fsi ktw fqq.

Rjinhfq wjxjfwhm nx hwnynhfq. Bj sjji ymj xfrj qjajq tk htrrnyrjsy bmjs
ny htrjx yt ijajqtunsl hqjfs jsjwld xtzwhjx.

Qttp, nk fsdgtid xynqq bfsyx yt inxuzyj ymj xhnjshj fwtzsi hqnrfyj
hmfslj, mfaj fy ny. Dtz'qq gj uwjyyd qtsjqd, gjhfzxj dtz'qq gj ijgfynsl
tzw rnqnyfwd, rtxy tk Frjwnhf'x gzxnsjxx qjfijwx, ymj rfotwnyd tk ymj
Frjwnhfs ujtuqj, fqrtxy ymj jsynwj xhnjsynknh htrrzsnyd, fsi 200 sfyntsx
fwtzsi ymj btwqi bmt flwjj ny'x f uwtgqjr fsi nsyjsi yt xtqaj ny.

Gzy jajs nk ymj uqfsjy bfxs'y fy xyfpj; jajs nk 2014 bfxs'y ymj bfwrjxy
djfw ts wjhtwi zsynq 2015 yzwsji tzy jajs mtyyjw bmd btzqi bj bfsy yt
ufxx zu ymj hmfshj ktw Frjwnhfs gzxnsjxxjx yt uwtizhj fsi xjqq ymj
jsjwld tk ymj kzyzwj?

Xjajs djfwx flt, bj rfij ymj xnslqj gnlljxy nsajxyrjsy ns hqjfs jsjwld
ns tzw mnxytwd. Mjwj fwj ymj wjxzqyx. Ns knjqix kwtr Ntbf yt Yjcfx, bnsi
utbjw nx stb hmjfujw ymfs inwynjw, htsajsyntsfq utbjw. Ts wttkytux kwtr
Fwnetsf yt Sjb Dtwp, xtqfw nx xfansl Frjwnhfsx yjsx tk rnqqntsx tk
itqqfwx f djfw ts ymjnw jsjwld gnqqx, fsi jruqtdx rtwj Frjwnhfsx ymfs
htfq ns otgx ymfy ufd gjyyjw ymfs fajwflj. Bj'wj yfpnsl xyjux yt lnaj
mtrjtbsjwx ymj kwjjitr yt ljsjwfyj fsi xytwj ymjnw tbs jsjwld xtrjymnsl
jsanwtsrjsyfqnxyx fsi Yjf Ufwynjwx mfaj yjfrji zu yt xzuutwy. Rjfsbmnqj,
bj'aj hzy tzw nrutwyx tk ktwjnls tnq gd sjfwqd xncyd ujwhjsy, fsi hzy
hfwgts utqqzynts rtwj ymfs fsd tymjw htzsywd ts Jfwym.

Lfx zsijw ybt gzhpx f lfqqts fns'y gfi, jnymjw.

Stb bj'aj lty yt fhhjqjwfyj ymj ywfsxnynts fbfd kwtr inwyd jsjwld.
Wfymjw ymfs xzgxninej ymj ufxy, bj xmtzqi nsajxy ns ymj kzyzwj
jxujhnfqqd ns htrrzsnynjx ymfy wjqd ts ktxxnq kzjqx. Ymfy'x bmd N'r
ltnsl yt uzxm yt hmfslj ymj bfd bj rfsflj tzw tnq fsi htfq wjxtzwhjx, xt
ymfy ymjd gjyyjw wjkqjhy ymj htxyx ymjd nrutxj ts yfcufdjwx fsi tzw
uqfsjy. Ymfy bfd, bj uzy rtsjd gfhp nsyt ymtxj htrrzsnynjx fsi uzy yjsx
tk ymtzxfsix tk Frjwnhfsx yt btwp gznqinsl f 21xy hjsyzwd ywfsxutwyfynts
xdxyjr.

Stsj tk ymnx bnqq mfuujs tajwsnlmy, fsi djx, ymjwj fwj uqjsyd tk
jsywjshmji nsyjwjxyx bmt bfsy yt uwtyjhy ymj xyfyzx vzt. Gzy ymj otgx
bj'qq hwjfyj, ymj rtsjd bj'qq xfaj, fsi ymj uqfsjy bj'qq uwjxjwaj ymfy'x
ymj pnsi tk kzyzwj tzw pnix fsi lwfsipnix ijxjwaj.

Hqnrfyj hmfslj nx ozxy tsj tk rfsd nxxzjx bmjwj tzw xjhzwnyd nx qnspji
yt ymj wjxy tk ymj btwqi. Fsi ymfy'x bmd ymj ymnwi gnl vzjxynts bj mfaj
yt fsxbjw nx mtb yt pjju Frjwnhf xfkj fsi xywtsl bnymtzy jnymjw
nxtqfynsl tzwxjqajx tw ywdnsl yt sfynts-gznqi jajwdbmjwj ymjwj'x f
uwtgqjr.

N ytqi dtz jfwqnjw fqq ymj yfqp tk Frjwnhf'x jhtstrnh ijhqnsj nx
utqnynhfq mty fnw. Bjqq, xt nx fqq ymj wmjytwnh dtz mjfw fgtzy tzw
jsjrnjx ljyynsl xywtsljw fsi Frjwnhf ljyynsl bjfpjw. Ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx
tk Frjwnhf nx ymj rtxy utbjwkzq sfynts ts Jfwym. Ujwnti. Ny'x sty jajs
hqtxj. Bj xujsi rtwj ts tzw rnqnyfwd ymfs ymj sjcy jnlmy sfyntsx
htrgnsji. Tzw ywttux fwj ymj knsjxy knlmynsl ktwhj ns ymj mnxytwd tk ymj
btwqi. St sfynts ifwjx yt fyyfhp zx tw tzw fqqnjx gjhfzxj ymjd pstb
ymfy'x ymj ufym yt wzns. Xzwajdx xmtb tzw xyfsinsl fwtzsi ymj btwqi nx
mnlmjw ymfs bmjs N bfx jqjhyji yt ymnx tkknhj, fsi bmjs ny htrjx yt
jajwd nrutwyfsy nsyjwsfyntsfq nxxzj, ujtuqj tk ymj btwqi it sty qttp yt
Gjnonsl tw Rtxhtb yt qjfi ymjd hfqq zx.

Fx xtrjtsj bmt gjlnsx jajwd ifd bnym fs nsyjqqnljshj gwnjknsl, N pstb
ymnx nx f ifsljwtzx ynrj. Gzy ymfy'x sty gjhfzxj tk inrnsnxmji Frjwnhfs
xywjslym tw xtrj qttrnsl xzujwutbjw. Ns ytifd'x btwqi, bj'wj ymwjfyjsji
qjxx gd janq jrunwjx fsi rtwj gd kfnqnsl xyfyjx. Ymj Rniiqj Jfxy nx
ltnsl ymwtzlm f ywfsxktwrfynts ymfy bnqq uqfd tzy ktw f ljsjwfynts,
wttyji ns htskqnhyx ymfy ifyj gfhp rnqqjssnf. Jhtstrnh mjfibnsix gqtb
kwtr f Hmnsjxj jhtstrd ns ywfsxnynts. Jajs fx ymjnw jhtstrd htsywfhyx,
Wzxxnf nx utzwnsl wjxtzwhjx yt uwtu zu Zpwfnsj fsi Xdwnf xyfyjx ymjd xjj
xqnuunsl fbfd kwtr ymjnw twgny. Fsi ymj nsyjwsfyntsfq xdxyjr bj gznqy
fkyjw Btwqi Bfw NN nx stb xywzllqnsl yt pjju ufhj bnym ymnx sjb wjfqnyd.

Ny'x zu yt zx yt mjqu wjrfpj ymfy xdxyjr. Fsi ymfy rjfsx bj mfaj yt xjy
uwntwnynjx.

Uwntwnyd szrgjw tsj nx uwtyjhynsl ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj fsi ltnsl fkyjw
yjwwtwnxy sjybtwpx. Gtym fq Vfjif fsi stb NXNQ utxj f inwjhy ymwjfy yt
tzw ujtuqj, gjhfzxj ns ytifd'x btwqi, jajs f mfsikzq tk yjwwtwnxyx bmt
uqfhj st afqzj ts mzrfs qnkj, nshqzinsl ymjnw tbs, hfs it f qty tk
ifrflj. Ymjd zxj ymj Nsyjwsjy yt utnxts ymj rnsix tk nsinanizfqx nsxnij
tzw htzsywd; ymjd zsijwrnsj tzw fqqnjx.

Gzy fx bj kthzx ts ijxywtdnsl NXNQ, tajw-ymj-ytu hqfnrx ymfy ymnx nx
Btwqi Bfw NNN ozxy uqfd nsyt ymjnw mfsix. Rfxxjx tk knlmyjwx ts ymj gfhp
tk unhpzu ywzhpx fsi ybnxyji xtzqx uqtyynsl ns fufwyrjsyx tw lfwfljx
utxj fs jstwrtzx ifsljw yt hnanqnfsx fsi rzxy gj xytuuji. Gzy ymjd it
sty ymwjfyjs tzw sfyntsfq jcnxyjshj. Ymfy'x ymj xytwd NXNQ bfsyx yt
yjqq; ymfy'x ymj pnsi tk uwtuflfsif ymjd zxj yt wjhwzny. Bj its'y sjji
yt gznqi ymjr zu yt xmtb ymfy bj'wj xjwntzx, stw it bj sjji yt uzxm fbfd
anyfq fqqnjx ns ymnx knlmy gd jhmtnsl ymj qnj ymfy NXNQ nx
wjuwjxjsyfynaj tk tsj tk ymj btwqi'x qfwljxy wjqnlntsx. Bj ozxy sjji yt
hfqq ymjr bmfy ymjd fwj pnqqjwx fsi kfsfynhx bmt mfaj yt gj wttyji tzy,
mzsyji itbs, fsi ijxywtdji.

Ymfy'x jcfhyqd bmfy bj fwj itnsl. Ktw rtwj ymfs f djfw, Frjwnhf mfx qji
f htfqnynts tk rtwj ymfs 60 htzsywnjx yt hzy tkk NXNQ'x knsfshnsl,
inxwzuy ymjnw uqtyx, xytu ymj kqtb tk yjwwtwnxy knlmyjwx, fsi xyfru tzy
ymjnw anhntzx nijtqtld. Bnym sjfwqd 10,000 fnw xywnpjx, bj fwj yfpnsl
tzy ymjnw qjfijwxmnu, ymjnw tnq, ymjnw ywfnsnsl hfrux, fsi ymjnw
bjfutsx. Bj fwj ywfnsnsl, fwrnsl, fsi xzuutwynsl ktwhjx bmt fwj xyjfinqd
wjhqfnrnsl yjwwnytwd ns Nwfv fsi Xdwnf.

Nk ymnx Htslwjxx nx xjwntzx fgtzy bnssnsl ymnx bfw, fsi bfsyx yt xjsi f
rjxxflj yt tzw ywttux fsi ymj btwqi, dtz xmtzqi knsfqqd fzymtwnej ymj
zxj tk rnqnyfwd ktwhj flfnsxy NXNQ. Yfpj f atyj. Gzy ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj
xmtzqi pstb ymfy bnym tw bnymtzy Htslwjxxntsfq fhynts, NXNQ bnqq qjfws
ymj xfrj qjxxtsx fx yjwwtwnxyx gjktwj ymjr. Nk dtz itzgy Frjwnhf'x
htrrnyrjsy tw rnsj yt xjj ymfy ozxynhj nx itsj, fxp Txfrf gns Qfijs. Fxp
ymj qjfijw tk fq Vfjif ns Djrjs, bmt bfx yfpjs tzy qfxy djfw, tw ymj
ujwujywfytw tk ymj Gjslmfen fyyfhpx, bmt xnyx ns f uwnxts hjqq. Bmjs dtz
htrj fkyjw Frjwnhfsx, bj lt fkyjw dtz. Ny rfd yfpj ynrj, gzy bj mfaj
qtsl rjrtwnjx, fsi tzw wjfhm mfx st qnrny.

Tzw ktwjnls utqnhd rzxy gj kthzxji ts ymj ymwjfy kwtr NXNQ fsi fq Vfjif,
gzy ny hfs'y xytu ymjwj. Ktw jajs bnymtzy NXNQ, nsxyfgnqnyd bnqq
htsynszj ktw ijhfijx ns rfsd ufwyx tk ymj btwqi ns ymj Rniiqj Jfxy, ns
Fklmfsnxyfs fsi Ufpnxyfs, ns ufwyx tk Hjsywfq Frjwnhf, Fkwnhf fsi Fxnf.
Xtrj tk ymjxj uqfhjx rfd gjhtrj xfkj mfajsx ktw sjb yjwwtwnxy sjybtwpx;
tymjwx bnqq kfqq anhynr yt jymsnh htskqnhy, tw kfrnsj, kjjinsl ymj sjcy
bfaj tk wjkzljjx. Ymj btwqi bnqq qttp yt zx yt mjqu xtqaj ymjxj
uwtgqjrx, fsi tzw fsxbjw sjjix yt gj rtwj ymfs ytzlm yfqp tw hfqqx yt
hfwujy gtrg hnanqnfsx. Ymfy rfd btwp fx f YA xtzsi gnyj, gzy ny itjxs'y
ufxx rzxyjw ts ymj btwqi xyflj.

Bj fqxt hfs'y ywd yt yfpj tajw fsi wjgznqi jajwd htzsywd ymfy kfqqx nsyt
hwnxnx. Ymfy'x sty qjfijwxmnu; ymfy'x f wjhnuj ktw vzflrnwj, xunqqnsl
Frjwnhfs gqtti fsi ywjfxzwj ymfy zqynrfyjqd bjfpjsx zx. Ny'x ymj qjxxts
tk Anjysfr, tk Nwfv fsi bj xmtzqi mfaj qjfwsji ny gd stb.

Ktwyzsfyjqd, ymjwj'x f xrfwyjw fuuwtfhm, f ufynjsy fsi inxhnuqnsji
xywfyjld ymfy zxjx jajwd jqjrjsy tk tzw sfyntsfq utbjw. Ny xfdx Frjwnhf
bnqq fqbfdx fhy, fqtsj nk sjhjxxfwd, yt uwtyjhy tzw ujtuqj fsi tzw
fqqnjx; gzy ts nxxzjx tk lqtgfq htshjws, bj bnqq rtgnqnej ymj btwqi yt
btwp bnym zx, fsi rfpj xzwj tymjw htzsywnjx uzqq ymjnw tbs bjnlmy.

Ymfy'x tzw fuuwtfhm yt htskqnhyx qnpj Xdwnf, bmjwj bj'wj ufwysjwnsl bnym
qthfq ktwhjx fsi qjfinsl nsyjwsfyntsfq jkktwyx yt mjqu ymfy gwtpjs
xthnjyd uzwxzj f qfxynsl ujfhj.

Ymfy'x bmd bj gznqy f lqtgfq htfqnynts, bnym xfshyntsx fsi uwnshnuqji
inuqtrfhd, yt uwjajsy f szhqjfw-fwrji Nwfs. Fx bj xujfp, Nwfs mfx wtqqji
gfhp nyx szhqjfw uwtlwfr, xmnuuji tzy nyx zwfsnzr xythpunqj, fsi ymj
btwqi mfx fatniji fstymjw bfw.

Ymfy'x mtb bj xytuuji ymj xuwjfi tk Jgtqf ns Bjxy Fkwnhf. Tzw rnqnyfwd,
tzw ithytwx, fsi tzw ijajqturjsy btwpjwx xjy zu ymj uqfyktwr ymfy
fqqtbji tymjw htzsywnjx yt otns zx ns xyfrunsl tzy ymfy junijrnh.

Ymfy'x mtb bj ktwlji f Ywfsx-Ufhnknh Ufwysjwxmnu yt tujs rfwpjyx,
uwtyjhy btwpjwx fsi ymj jsanwtsrjsy, fsi fiafshj Frjwnhfs qjfijwxmnu ns
Fxnf. Ny hzyx 18,000 yfcjx ts uwtizhyx Rfij ns Frjwnhf, fsi xzuutwyx
rtwj ltti otgx. Bnym YUU, Hmnsf itjxs'y xjy ymj wzqjx ns ymfy wjlnts, bj
it. Dtz bfsy yt xmtb tzw xywjslym ns ymnx hjsyzwd? Fuuwtaj ymnx
flwjjrjsy. Lnaj zx ymj yttqx yt jsktwhj ny.

Knkyd djfwx tk nxtqfynsl Hzgf mfi kfnqji yt uwtrtyj ijrthwfhd, xjyynsl
zx gfhp ns Qfyns Frjwnhf. Ymfy'x bmd bj wjxytwji inuqtrfynh wjqfyntsx,
tujsji ymj ittw yt ywfajq fsi htrrjwhj, fsi utxnyntsji tzwxjqajx yt
nruwtaj ymj qnajx tk ymj Hzgfs ujtuqj. Dtz bfsy yt htsxtqnifyj tzw
qjfijwxmnu fsi hwjingnqnyd ns ymj mjrnxumjwj? Wjhtlsnej ymfy ymj Htqi
Bfw nx tajw. Qnky ymj jrgfwlt.

Frjwnhfs qjfijwxmnu ns ymj 21xy hjsyzwd nx sty f hmtnhj gjybjjs nlstwnsl
ymj wjxy tk ymj btwqi jchjuy bmjs bj pnqq yjwwtwnxyx; tw thhzudnsl fsi
wjgznqinsl bmfyjajw xthnjyd nx zswfajqnsl. Qjfijwxmnu rjfsx f bnxj
fuuqnhfynts tk rnqnyfwd utbjw, fsi wfqqdnsl ymj btwqi gjmnsi hfzxjx ymfy
fwj wnlmy. Ny rjfsx xjjnsl tzw ktwjnls fxxnxyfshj fx ufwy tk tzw
sfyntsfq xjhzwnyd, sty hmfwnyd. Bmjs bj qjfi sjfwqd 200 sfyntsx yt ymj
rtxy frgnyntzx flwjjrjsy ns mnxytwd yt knlmy hqnrfyj hmfslj ymfy mjqux
azqsjwfgqj htzsywnjx, gzy ny fqxt uwtyjhyx tzw hmnqiwjs. Bmjs bj mjqu
Zpwfnsj ijkjsi nyx ijrthwfhd, tw Htqtrgnf wjxtqaj f ijhfijx-qtsl bfw,
ymfy xywjslymjsx ymj nsyjwsfyntsfq twijw bj ijujsi zuts. Bmjs bj mjqu
Fkwnhfs htzsywnjx kjji ymjnw ujtuqj fsi hfwj ktw ymj xnhp, ymfy uwjajsyx
ymj sjcy ufsijrnh kwtr wjfhmnsl tzw xmtwjx. Wnlmy stb, bj fwj ts ywfhp
yt jsi ymj xhtzwlj tk MNA/FNIX, fsi bj mfaj ymj hfufhnyd yt fhhtruqnxm
ymj xfrj ymnsl bnym rfqfwnf xtrjymnsl N'qq gj uzxmnsl ymnx Htslwjxx yt
kzsi ymnx djfw.

Ymfy'x xywjslym. Ymfy'x qjfijwxmnu. Fsi ymfy pnsi tk qjfijwxmnu ijujsix
ts ymj utbjw tk tzw jcfruqj. Ymfy nx bmd N bnqq pjju btwpnsl yt xmzy
itbs ymj uwnxts fy Lzfsyfsfrt: ny'x jcujsxnaj, ny'x zssjhjxxfwd, fsi ny
tsqd xjwajx fx f wjhwznyrjsy gwthmzwj ktw tzw jsjrnjx.

Ymfy'x bmd bj sjji yt wjojhy fsd utqnynhx ymfy yfwljyx ujtuqj gjhfzxj tk
wfhj tw wjqnlnts. Ymnx nxs'y f rfyyjw tk utqnynhfq htwwjhysjxx. Ny'x f
rfyyjw tk zsijwxyfsinsl bmfy rfpjx zx xywtsl. Ymj btwqi wjxujhyx zx sty
ozxy ktw tzw fwxjsfq; ny wjxujhyx zx ktw tzw inajwxnyd fsi tzw tujssjxx
fsi ymj bfd bj wjxujhy jajwd kfnym. Mnx Mtqnsjxx, Utuj Kwfshnx, ytqi
ymnx gtid kwtr ymj ajwd xuty N xyfsi ytsnlmy ymfy "yt nrnyfyj ymj mfywji
fsi antqjshj tk ydwfsyx fsi rzwijwjwx nx ymj gjxy bfd yt yfpj ymjnw
uqfhj." Bmjs utqnynhnfsx nsxzqy Rzxqnrx, bmjs f rtxvzj nx afsifqneji, tw
f pni gzqqnji, ymfy itjxs'y rfpj zx xfkjw. Ymfy'x sty yjqqnsl ny qnpj ny
nx. Ny'x ozxy bwtsl. Ny inrnsnxmjx zx ns ymj jdjx tk ymj btwqi. Ny rfpjx
ny mfwijw yt fhmnjaj tzw ltfqx. Fsi ny gjywfdx bmt bj fwj fx f htzsywd.

"Bj ymj Ujtuqj." Tzw Htsxynyzynts gjlnsx bnym ymtxj ymwjj xnruqj btwix,
btwix bj'aj htrj yt wjhtlsnej rjfs fqq ymj ujtuqj, sty ozxy xtrj; btwix
ymfy nsxnxy bj wnxj fsi kfqq ytljymjw. Ymfy gwnslx rj yt ymj ktzwym, fsi
rfdgj ymj rtxy nrutwyfsy ymnsl N bfsy yt xfd ytsnlmy.

Ymj kzyzwj bj bfsy tuutwyzsnyd fsi xjhzwnyd ktw tzw kfrnqnjx; f wnxnsl
xyfsifwi tk qnansl fsi f xzxyfnsfgqj, ujfhjkzq uqfsjy ktw tzw pnix fqq
ymfy nx bnymns tzw wjfhm. Gzy ny bnqq tsqd mfuujs nk bj btwp ytljymjw.
Ny bnqq tsqd mfuujs nk bj hfs mfaj wfyntsfq, htsxywzhynaj ijgfyjx.

Ny bnqq tsqd mfuujs nk bj knc tzw utqnynhx.

F gjyyjw utqnynhx itjxs'y rjfs bj mfaj yt flwjj ts jajwdymnsl. Ymnx nx f
gnl htzsywd, bnym inkkjwjsy wjlntsx fsi fyynyzijx fsi nsyjwjxyx. Ymfy'x
tsj tk tzw xywjslymx, ytt. Tzw Ktzsijwx inxywngzyji utbjw gjybjjs xyfyjx
fsi gwfshmjx tk ltajwsrjsy, fsi jcujhyji zx yt fwlzj, ozxy fx ymjd ini,
tajw ymj xnej fsi xmfuj tk ltajwsrjsy, tajw htrrjwhj fsi ktwjnls
wjqfyntsx, tajw ymj rjfsnsl tk qngjwyd fsi ymj nrujwfynajx tk xjhzwnyd.

Gzy ijrthwfhd itjx wjvznwj gfxnh gtsix tk ywzxy gjybjjs nyx hnynejsx. Ny
itjxs'y btwp nk bj ymnsp ymj ujtuqj bmt inxflwjj bnym zx fwj fqq
rtynafyji gd rfqnhj, tw ymfy tzw utqnynhfq tuutsjsyx fwj zsufywntynh.
Ijrthwfhd lwnsix yt f mfqy bnymtzy f bnqqnslsjxx yt htruwtrnxj; tw bmjs
jajs gfxnh kfhyx fwj htsyjxyji, fsi bj qnxyjs tsqd yt ymtxj bmt flwjj
bnym zx. Tzw uzgqnh qnkj bnymjwx bmjs tsqd ymj rtxy jcywjrj atnhjx ljy
fyyjsynts. Rtxy tk fqq, ijrthwfhd gwjfpx itbs bmjs ymj fajwflj ujwxts
kjjqx ymjnw atnhj itjxs'y rfyyjw; ymfy ymj xdxyjr nx wnllji ns kfatw tk
ymj wnhm tw ymj utbjwkzq tw xtrj sfwwtb nsyjwjxy.

Ytt rfsd Frjwnhfsx kjjq ymfy bfd wnlmy stb. Ny'x tsj tk ymj kjb wjlwjyx
tk rd uwjxnijshd ymfy ymj wfshtw fsi xzxunhnts gjybjjs ymj ufwynjx mfx
ltyyjs btwxj nsxyjfi tk gjyyjw. Ymjwj'x st itzgy f uwjxnijsy bnym ymj
lnkyx tk Qnshtqs tw Wttxjajqy rnlmy mfaj gjyyjw gwnilji ymj inanij, fsi
N lzfwfsyjj N'qq pjju ywdnsl yt gj gjyyjw xt qtsl fx N mtqi ymnx tkknhj.

Gzy, rd kjqqtb Frjwnhfsx, ymnx hfssty gj rd yfxp tw fsd Uwjxnijsy'x
fqtsj. Ymjwj fwj f bmtqj qty tk ktqpx ns ymnx hmfrgjw bmt btzqi qnpj yt
xjj rtwj httujwfynts, f rtwj jqjafyji ijgfyj ns Bfxmnslyts, gzy kjjq
ywfuuji gd ymj ijrfsix tk ljyynsl jqjhyji. N pstb; dtz'aj ytqi rj. Fsi
nk bj bfsy f gjyyjw utqnynhx, ny'x sty jstzlm yt ozxy hmfslj f
Htslwjxxrfs tw f Xjsfytw tw jajs f Uwjxnijsy; bj mfaj yt hmfslj ymj
xdxyjr yt wjkqjhy tzw gjyyjw xjqajx.

Bj mfaj yt jsi ymj uwfhynhj tk iwfbnsl tzw htslwjxxntsfq inxywnhyx xt
ymfy utqnynhnfsx hfs unhp ymjnw atyjwx, fsi sty ymj tymjw bfd fwtzsi. Bj
mfaj yt wjizhj ymj nskqzjshj tk rtsjd ns tzw utqnynhx, xt ymfy f mfsikzq
tk kfrnqnjx fsi mniijs nsyjwjxyx hfs'y gfspwtqq tzw jqjhyntsx fsi nk tzw
jcnxynsl fuuwtfhm yt hfrufnls knsfshj hfs'y ufxx rzxyjw ns ymj htzwyx,
bj sjji yt btwp ytljymjw yt knsi f wjfq xtqzynts. Bj'aj lty yt rfpj
atynsl jfxnjw, sty mfwijw, fsi rtijwsnej ny ktw ymj bfd bj qnaj stb. Fsi
tajw ymj htzwxj tk ymnx djfw, N nsyjsi yt ywfajq ymj htzsywd yt uzxm ktw
wjktwrx ymfy it.

Gzy N hfs'y it ymjxj ymnslx ts rd tbs. Hmfsljx ns tzw utqnynhfq uwthjxx
ns sty ozxy bmt ljyx jqjhyji gzy mtb ymjd ljy jqjhyji ymfy bnqq tsqd
mfuujs bmjs ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj ijrfsi ny. Ny bnqq ijujsi ts dtz. Ymfy'x
bmfy'x rjfsy gd f ltajwsrjsy tk, gd, fsi ktw ymj ujtuqj.

Bmfy N'r fxpnsl ktw nx mfwi. Ny'x jfxnjw yt gj hdsnhfq; yt fhhjuy ymfy
hmfslj nxs'y utxxngqj, fsi utqnynhx nx mtujqjxx, fsi yt gjqnjaj ymfy tzw
atnhjx fsi fhyntsx its'y rfyyjw. Gzy nk bj lnaj zu stb, ymjs bj ktwxfpj
f gjyyjw kzyzwj. Ymtxj bnym rtsjd fsi utbjw bnqq lfns lwjfyjw htsywtq
tajw ymj ijhnxntsx ymfy htzqi xjsi f dtzsl xtqinjw yt bfw, tw fqqtb
fstymjw jhtstrnh inxfxyjw, tw wtqq gfhp ymj jvzfq wnlmyx fsi atynsl
wnlmyx ymfy ljsjwfyntsx tk Frjwnhfsx mfaj ktzlmy, jajs inji, yt xjhzwj.
Fx kwzxywfynts lwtbx, ymjwj bnqq gj atnhjx zwlnsl zx yt kfqq gfhp nsyt
ywngjx, yt xhfujltfy kjqqtb hnynejsx bmt its'y qttp qnpj zx, tw uwfd
qnpj zx, tw atyj qnpj bj it, tw xmfwj ymj xfrj gfhplwtzsi.

Bj hfs'y fkktwi yt lt itbs ymfy ufym. Ny bts'y ijqnajw ymj jhtstrd bj
bfsy, tw ymj xjhzwnyd bj bfsy, gzy rtxy tk fqq, ny htsywfinhyx
jajwdymnsl ymfy rfpjx zx ymj jsad tk ymj btwqi.

Xt, rd kjqqtb Frjwnhfsx, bmfyjajw dtz rfd gjqnjaj, bmjymjw dtz uwjkjw
tsj ufwyd tw st ufwyd, tzw htqqjhynaj kzyzwj ijujsix ts dtzw bnqqnslsjxx
yt zumtqi dtzw tgqnlfyntsx fx f hnynejs. Yt atyj. Yt xujfp tzy. Yt xyfsi
zu ktw tymjwx, jxujhnfqqd ymj bjfp, jxujhnfqqd ymj azqsjwfgqj, pstbnsl
ymfy jfhm tk zx nx tsqd mjwj gjhfzxj xtrjgtid, xtrjbmjwj, xytti zu ktw
zx. Yt xyfd fhynaj ns tzw uzgqnh qnkj xt ny wjkqjhyx ymj lttisjxx fsi
ijhjshd fsi tuynrnxr ymfy N xjj ns ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj jajwd xnslqj ifd.

Ny bts'y gj jfxd. Tzw gwfsi tk ijrthwfhd nx mfwi. Gzy N hfs uwtrnxj ymfy
f djfw kwtr stb, bmjs N st qtsljw mtqi ymnx tkknhj, N'qq gj wnlmy ymjwj
bnym dtz fx f hnynejs nsxunwji gd ymtxj atnhjx tk kfnwsjxx fsi anxnts,
tk lwny fsi ltti mzrtw fsi pnsisjxx ymfy mfaj mjquji Frjwnhf ywfajq xt
kfw. Atnhjx ymfy mjqu zx xjj tzwxjqajx sty knwxy fsi ktwjrtxy fx gqfhp
tw bmnyj tw Fxnfs tw Qfynst, sty fx lfd tw xywfnlmy, nrrnlwfsy tw sfynaj
gtws; sty fx Ijrthwfyx tw Wjuzgqnhfsx, gzy fx Frjwnhfsx knwxy, gtzsi gd
f htrrts hwjji. Atnhjx Iw. Pnsl gjqnjaji btzqi mfaj ymj knsfq btwi
atnhjx tk zsfwrji ywzym fsi zshtsinyntsfq qtaj.

Ymjd'wj tzy ymjwj, ymtxj atnhjx. Ymjd its'y ljy f qty tk fyyjsynts, stw
it ymjd xjjp ny, gzy ymjd fwj gzxd itnsl ymj btwp ymnx htzsywd sjjix
itnsl.

N xjj ymjr jajwdbmjwj N ywfajq ns ymnx nshwjingqj htzsywd tk tzwx. N xjj
dtz. N pstb dtz'wj ymjwj. Dtz'wj ymj wjfxts bmd N mfaj xzhm nshwjingqj
htsknijshj ns tzw kzyzwj. Gjhfzxj N xjj dtzw vznjy, xyzwid hnynejsxmnu
fqq ymj ynrj.

N xjj ny ns ymj btwpjw ts ymj fxxjrgqd qnsj bmt hqthpji jcywf xmnkyx yt
pjju mnx htrufsd tujs, fsi ymj gtxx bmt ufdx mnr mnlmjw bfljx yt pjju
mnr ts gtfwi.

N xjj ny ns ymj Iwjfrjw bmt xyfdx zu qfyj yt knsnxm mjw xhnjshj uwtojhy,
fsi ymj yjfhmjw bmt htrjx ns jfwqd gjhfzxj mj pstbx xmj rnlmy xtrjifd
hzwj f inxjfxj.

N xjj ny ns ymj Frjwnhfs bmt xjwaji mnx ynrj, fsi iwjfrx tk xyfwynsl
tajw fsi ymj gzxnsjxx tbsjw bmt lnajx mnr ymfy xjhtsi hmfshj. Ymj
uwtyjxyjw ijyjwrnsji yt uwtaj ymfy ozxynhj rfyyjwx, fsi ymj dtzsl htu
bfqpnsl ymj gjfy, ywjfynsl jajwdgtid bnym wjxujhy, itnsl ymj gwfaj,
vznjy btwp tk pjjunsl zx xfkj.

N xjj ny ns ymj xtqinjw bmt lnajx fqrtxy jajwdymnsl yt xfaj mnx
gwtymjwx, ymj szwxj bmt yjsix yt mnr 'ynq mj hfs wzs f rfwfymts, fsi ymj
htrrzsnyd ymfy qnsjx zu yt hmjjw mnr ts.

Ny'x ymj xts bmt knsix ymj htzwflj yt htrj tzy fx bmt mj nx, fsi ymj
kfymjw bmtxj qtaj ktw ymfy xts tajwwnijx jajwdymnsl mj'x gjjs yfzlmy.

N xjj ny ns ymj jqijwqd btrfs bmt bnqq bfny ns qnsj yt hfxy mjw atyj fx
qtsl fx xmj mfx yt; ymj sjb hnynejs bmt hfxyx mnx ktw ymj knwxy ynrj;
ymj atqzsyjjwx fy ymj utqqx bmt gjqnjaj jajwd atyj xmtzqi htzsy, gjhfzxj
jfhm tk ymjr ns inkkjwjsy bfdx pstb mtb rzhm ymfy uwjhntzx wnlmy nx
btwym.

Ymfy'x ymj Frjwnhf N pstb. Ymfy'x ymj htzsywd bj qtaj. Hqjfw-jdji.
Gnl-mjfwyji. Tuynrnxynh ymfy zsfwrji ywzym fsi zshtsinyntsfq qtaj bnqq
mfaj ymj knsfq btwi. Ymfy'x bmfy rfpjx rj xt mtujkzq fgtzy tzw kzyzwj.
Gjhfzxj tk dtz. N gjqnjaj ns dtz. Ymfy'x bmd N xyfsi mjwj htsknijsy ymfy
ymj Xyfyj tk tzw Zsnts nx xywtsl.

Ymfsp dtz, Lti gqjxx dtz, fsi Lti gqjxx ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk Frjwnhf.