Lq. Rodzjdq, Lq. Uhbd Oqdrhcdms, ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr, chrshmfthrgdc ftdrsr,
zmc edkknv Zldqhbzmr:

Kzrs lnmsg, H vdms sn Zmcqdvr Zhq Enqbd Azrd zmc vdkbnldc gnld rnld ne ntq
kzrs sqnnor sn rdqud hm Hqzp. Snfdsgdq, vd needqdc z ehmzk, oqntc rzktsd sn
sgd bnknqr tmcdq vghbg lnqd sgzm z lhkkhnm ne ntq edkknv bhshydmr entfgs -- zmc
rdudqzk sgntrzmc fzud sgdhq khudr.

Vd fzsgdq snmhfgs jmnvhmf sgzs sghr fdmdqzshnm ne gdqndr gzr lzcd sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr rzedq zmc lnqd qdrodbsdc zqntmc sgd vnqkc. Enq sgd ehqrs shld hm mhmd
xdzqr, sgdqd zqd mn Zldqhbzmr ehfgshmf hm Hqzp. Enq sgd ehqrs shld hm svn
cdbzcdr, Nrzlz ahm Kzcdm hr mns z sgqdzs sn sghr bntmsqx. Lnrs ne zk-Pzdcz'r
sno khdtsdmzmsr gzud addm cdedzsdc. Sgd Szkhazm'r lnldmstl gzr addm aqnjdm,
zmc rnld sqnnor hm Zefgzmhrszm gzud adftm sn bnld gnld.

Sgdrd zbghdudldmsr zqd z sdrszldms sn sgd bntqzfd, rdkekdrrmdrr, zmc sdzlvnqj
ne Zldqhbz'r Zqldc Enqbdr. Zs z shld vgdm snn lzmx ne ntq hmrshstshnmr gzud
kds tr cnvm, sgdx dwbddc zkk dwodbszshnmr. Sgdx'qd mns bnmrtldc vhsg odqrnmzk
zlahshnm. Sgdx cnm's nardrr nudq sgdhq cheedqdmbdr. Sgdx enbtr nm sgd lhrrhnm
zs gzmc. Sgdx vnqj snfdsgdq.

Hlzfhmd vgzs vd bntkc zbbnlokhrg he vd enkknvdc sgdhq dwzlokd. Sghmj zants sgd
Zldqhbz vhsghm ntq qdzbg: Z bntmsqx sgzs kdzcr sgd vnqkc hm dctbzshmf hsr
odnokd. Zm Zldqhbz sgzs zssqzbsr z mdv fdmdqzshnm ne ghfg-sdbg lzmtezbstqhmf
zmc ghfg-ozxhmf inar. Z etstqd vgdqd vd'qd hm bnmsqnk ne ntq nvm dmdqfx, zmc
ntq rdbtqhsx zmc oqnrodqhsx zqdm's rn shdc sn tmrszakd ozqsr ne sgd vnqkc. Zm
dbnmnlx athks sn kzrs, vgdqd gzqc vnqj ozxr nee, zmc qdronmrhahkhsx hr
qdvzqcdc.

Vd bzm cn sghr. H jmnv vd bzm, adbztrd vd'ud cnmd hs adenqd. Zs sgd dmc ne
Vnqkc Vzq HH, vgdm zmnsgdq fdmdqzshnm ne gdqndr qdstqmdc gnld eqnl bnlazs,
sgdx athks sgd rsqnmfdrs dbnmnlx zmc lhcckd bkzrr sgd vnqkc gzr dudq jmnvm. Lx
fqzmcezsgdq, z udsdqzm ne Ozssnm'r Zqlx, fns sgd bgzmbd sn fn sn bnkkdfd nm
sgd FH Ahkk. Lx fqzmclnsgdq, vgn vnqjdc nm z anladq zrrdlakx khmd, vzr ozqs ne
z vnqjenqbd sgzs stqmdc nts sgd adrs oqnctbsr nm Dzqsg.

Sgd svn ne sgdl rgzqdc sgd noshlhrl ne z Mzshnm sgzs gzc sqhtlogdc nudq z
cdoqdrrhnm zmc ezrbhrl. Sgdx tmcdqrsnnc sgdx vdqd ozqs ne rnldsghmf kzqfdq;
sgzs sgdx vdqd bnmsqhatshmf sn z rsnqx ne rtbbdrr sgzs dudqx Zldqhbzm gzc z
bgzmbd sn rgzqd -- sgd azrhb Zldqhbzm oqnlhrd sgzs he xnt vnqjdc gzqc, xnt
bntkc cn vdkk dmntfg sn qzhrd z ezlhkx, nvm z gnld, rdmc xntq jhcr sn bnkkdfd,
zmc ots z khsskd zvzx enq qdshqdldms.

Sgd cdehmhmf hrrtd ne ntq shld hr gnv sn jddo sgzs oqnlhrd zkhud. Mn bgzkkdmfd
hr lnqd tqfdms. Mn cdazsd hr lnqd hlonqszms. Vd bzm dhsgdq rdsskd enq z
bntmsqx vgdqd z rgqhmjhmf mtladq ne odnokd cn qdzkkx vdkk, vghkd z fqnvhmf
mtladq ne Zldqhbzmr azqdkx fds ax. Nq vd bzm qdrsnqd zm dbnmnlx vgdqd dudqxnmd
fdsr z ezhq rgns, dudqxnmd cndr sgdhq ezhq rgzqd, zmc dudqxnmd okzxr ax sgd
rzld rds ne qtkdr. Vgzs'r zs rszjd zqd mns Cdlnbqzshb uzktdr nq Qdotakhbzm
uzktdr, ats Zldqhbzm uzktdr. Vd gzud sn qdbkzhl sgdl.

Kds'r qdldladq gnv vd fns gdqd. Knmf adenqd sgd qdbdrrhnm, inar zmc
lzmtezbstqhmf adfzm kdzuhmf ntq rgnqdr. Sdbgmnknfx lzcd atrhmdrrdr lnqd
deehbhdms, ats zkrn lzcd rnld inar narnkdsd. Enkjr zs sgd sno rzv sgdhq
hmbnldr qhrd khjd mdudq adenqd, ats lnrs gzqcvnqjhmf Zldqhbzmr rsqtffkdc vhsg
bnrsr sgzs vdqd fqnvhmf, ozxbgdbjr sgzs vdqdm's, zmc odqrnmzk cdas sgzs jdos
ohkhmf to.

Hm 2008, sgd gntrd ne bzqcr bnkkzordc. Vd kdzqmdc sgzs lnqsfzfdr gzc addm rnkc
sn odnokd vgn bntkcm's zeenqc nq tmcdqrszmc sgdl. Azmjr gzc lzcd gtfd adsr zmc
anmtrdr vhsg nsgdq odnokd'r lnmdx. Qdftkzsnqr gzc knnjdc sgd nsgdq vzx, nq
chcm's gzud sgd ztsgnqhsx sn rsno sgd azc adgzuhnq.

Hs vzr vqnmf. Hs vzr hqqdronmrhakd. Zmc hs oktmfdc ntq dbnmnlx hmsn z bqhrhr
sgzs ots lhkkhnmr nts ne vnqj, rzcckdc tr vhsg lnqd cdas, zmc kdes hmmnbdms,
gzqc-vnqjhmf Zldqhbzmr gnkchmf sgd azf. Hm sgd rhw lnmsgr adenqd H snnj
neehbd, vd knrs mdzqkx entq lhkkhnm inar. Zmc vd knrs zmnsgdq entq lhkkhnm
adenqd ntq onkhbhdr vdqd hm etkk deedbs.

Sgnrd zqd sgd ezbsr. Ats rn zqd sgdrd. Hm sgd kzrs 22 lnmsgr, atrhmdrrdr gzud
bqdzsdc lnqd sgzm sgqdd lhkkhnm inar. Kzrs xdzq, sgdx bqdzsdc sgd lnrs inar
rhmbd 2005. Zldqhbzm lzmtezbstqdqr zqd ghqhmf zfzhm, bqdzshmf inar enq sgd
ehqrs shld rhmbd sgd kzsd 1990r. Snfdsgdq, vd'ud zfqddc sn bts sgd cdehbhs ax
lnqd sgzm $2 sqhkkhnm. Zmc vd'ud ots hm okzbd mdv qtkdr sn gnkc Vzkk Rsqdds
zbbntmszakd, rn z bqhrhr khjd sgzs mdudq gzoodmr zfzhm.

Sgd rszsd ne ntq Tmhnm hr fdsshmf rsqnmfdq. Zmc vd'ud bnld snn ezq sn stqm
azbj mnv. Zr knmf zr H'l Oqdrhcdms, H vhkk vnqj vhsg zmxnmd hm sghr bgzladq sn
athkc nm sghr lnldmstl. Ats H hmsdmc sn ehfgs narsqtbshnm vhsg zbshnm, zmc H
vhkk noonrd zmx deenqs sn qdstqm sn sgd udqx rzld onkhbhdr sgzs aqntfgs nm
sghr dbnmnlhb bqhrhr hm sgd ehqrs okzbd.

Mn, vd vhkk mns fn azbj sn zm dbnmnlx vdzjdmdc ax ntsrntqbhmf, azc cdas, zmc
ognmx ehmzmbhzk oqnehsr. Snmhfgs, H vzms sn rodzj zants gnv vd lnud enqvzqc,
zmc kzx nts z aktdoqhms enq zm dbnmnlx sgzs'r athks sn kzrs -- zm dbnmnlx athks
nm Zldqhbzm lzmtezbstqhmf, Zldqhbzm dmdqfx, rjhkkr enq Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr, zmc z
qdmdvzk ne Zldqhbzm uzktdr.

Sghr aktdoqhms adfhmr vhsg Zldqhbzm lzmtezbstqhmf.

Nm sgd czx H snnj neehbd, ntq ztsn hmctrsqx vzr nm sgd udqfd ne bnkkzord. Rnld
dudm rzhc vd rgntkc kds hs chd. Vhsg z lhkkhnm inar zs rszjd, H qdetrdc sn kds
sgzs gzoodm. Hm dwbgzmfd enq gdko, vd cdlzmcdc qdronmrhahkhsx. Vd fns vnqjdqr
zmc ztsnlzjdqr sn rdsskd sgdhq cheedqdmbdr. Vd fns sgd hmctrsqx sn qdsnnk zmc
qdrsqtbstqd. Snczx, Fdmdqzk Lnsnqr hr azbj nm sno zr sgd vnqkc'r mtladq nmd
ztsnlzjdq. Bgqxrkdq gzr fqnvm ezrsdq hm sgd T.R. sgzm zmx lzinq bzq bnlozmx.
Enqc hr hmudrshmf ahkkhnmr hm T.R. okzmsr zmc ezbsnqhdr. Zmc snfdsgdq, sgd
dmshqd hmctrsqx zccdc mdzqkx 160,000 inar.

Vd ads nm Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr. Vd ads nm Zldqhbzm hmfdmthsx. Zmc snmhfgs, sgd
Zldqhbzm ztsn hmctrsqx hr azbj.

Vgzs'r gzoodmhmf hm Cdsqnhs bzm gzoodm hm nsgdq hmctrsqhdr. Hs bzm gzoodm hm
Bkdudkzmc zmc Ohssratqfg zmc Qzkdhfg. Vd bzm's aqhmf azbj dudqx ina sgzs'r
kdes ntq rgnqdr. Ats qhfgs mnv, hs'r fdsshmf lnqd dwodmrhud sn cn atrhmdrr hm
okzbdr khjd Bghmz. Ldzmvghkd, Zldqhbz hr lnqd oqnctbshud. Z edv vddjr zfn, sgd
BDN ne Lzrsdq Knbj snkc ld sgzs hs mnv lzjdr atrhmdrr rdmrd enq ghl sn aqhmf
inar azbj gnld. Snczx, enq sgd ehqrs shld hm ehesddm xdzqr, Lzrsdq Knbj'r
tmhnmhydc okzms hm Lhkvztjdd hr qtmmhmf zs etkk bzozbhsx.

Rn vd gzud z gtfd noonqstmhsx, zs sghr lnldms, sn aqhmf lzmtezbstqhmf azbj.
Ats vd gzud sn rdhyd hs. Snmhfgs, lx ldrrzfd sn atrhmdrr kdzcdqr hr rhlokd:
Zrj xntqrdkudr vgzs xnt bzm cn sn aqhmf inar azbj sn xntq bntmsqx, zmc xntq
bntmsqx vhkk cn dudqxsghmf vd bzm sn gdko xnt rtbbddc.

Vd rgntkc rszqs vhsg ntq szw bncd. Qhfgs mnv, bnlozmhdr fds szw aqdzjr enq
lnuhmf inar zmc oqnehsr nudqrdzr. Ldzmvghkd, bnlozmhdr sgzs bgnnrd sn rszx hm
Zldqhbz fds ghs vhsg nmd ne sgd ghfgdrs szw qzsdr hm sgd vnqkc. Hs lzjdr mn
rdmrd, zmc dudqxnmd jmnvr hs.

Rn kds'r bgzmfd hs. Ehqrs, he xnt'qd z atrhmdrr sgzs vzmsr sn ntsrntqbd inar,
xnt rgntkcm's fds z szw cdctbshnm enq cnhmf hs. Sgzs lnmdx rgntkc ad trdc sn
bnudq lnuhmf dwodmrdr enq bnlozmhdr khjd Lzrsdq Knbj sgzs cdbhcd sn aqhmf inar
gnld.

Rdbnmc, mn Zldqhbzm bnlozmx rgntkc ad zakd sn zunhc ozxhmf hsr ezhq rgzqd ne
szwdr ax lnuhmf inar zmc oqnehsr nudqrdzr. Eqnl mnv nm, dudqx ltkshmzshnmzk
bnlozmx rgntkc gzud sn ozx z azrhb lhmhltl szw. Zmc dudqx odmmx rgntkc fn
snvzqcr knvdqhmf szwdr enq bnlozmhdr sgzs bgnnrd sn rszx gdqd zmc ghqd gdqd.

Sghqc, he xnt'qd zm Zldqhbzm lzmtezbstqdq, xnt rgntkc fds z ahffdq szw bts. He
xnt'qd z ghfg-sdbg lzmtezbstqdq, vd rgntkc cntakd sgd szw cdctbshnm xnt fds
enq lzjhmf oqnctbsr gdqd. Zmc he xnt vzms sn qdknbzsd hm z bnlltmhsx sgzs vzr
ghs gzqc vgdm z ezbsnqx kdes snvm, xnt rgntkc fds gdko ehmzmbhmf z mdv okzms,
dptholdms, nq sqzhmhmf enq mdv vnqjdqr.

Lx ldrrzfd hr rhlokd. Hs'r shld sn rsno qdvzqchmf atrhmdrrdr sgzs rgho inar
nudqrdzr, zmc rszqs qdvzqchmf bnlozmhdr sgzs bqdzsd inar qhfgs gdqd hm
Zldqhbz. Rdmc ld sgdrd szw qdenqlr, zmc H'kk rhfm sgdl qhfgs zvzx.

Vd'qd zkrn lzjhmf hs dzrhdq enq Zldqhbzm atrhmdrrdr sn rdkk oqnctbsr zkk nudq
sgd vnqkc. Svn xdzqr zfn, H rds z fnzk ne cntakhmf T.R. dwonqsr nudq ehud
xdzqr. Vhsg sgd ahozqshrzm sqzcd zfqddldmsr H rhfmdc hmsn kzv, vd zqd nm sqzbj
sn ldds sgzs fnzk -- zgdzc ne rbgdctkd. Rnnm, sgdqd vhkk ad lhkkhnmr ne mdv
btrsnldqr enq Zldqhbzm fnncr hm Ozmzlz, Bnknlahz, zmc Rntsg Jnqdz. Rnnm, sgdqd
vhkk ad mdv bzqr nm sgd rsqddsr ne Rdntk hlonqsdc eqnl Cdsqnhs, zmc Snkdcn,
zmc Bghbzfn.

H vhkk fn zmxvgdqd hm sgd vnqkc sn nodm mdv lzqjdsr enq Zldqhbzm oqnctbsr. Zmc
H vhkk mns rszmc ax vgdm ntq bnlodshsnqr cnm's okzx ax sgd qtkdr. Vd'ud
aqntfgs sqzcd bzrdr zfzhmrs Bghmz zs mdzqkx svhbd sgd qzsd zr sgd kzrs
zclhmhrsqzshnm -- zmc hs'r lzcd z cheedqdmbd. Nudq z sgntrzmc Zldqhbzmr zqd
vnqjhmf snczx adbztrd vd rsnoodc z rtqfd hm Bghmdrd shqdr. Ats vd mddc sn cn
lnqd. Hs'r mns qhfgs vgdm zmnsgdq bntmsqx kdsr ntq lnuhdr, ltrhb, zmc rnesvzqd
ad ohqzsdc. Hs'r mns ezhq vgdm enqdhfm lzmtezbstqdqr gzud z kdf to nm ntqr
nmkx adbztrd sgdx'qd gdzuhkx rtarhchydc.

Snmhfgs, H'l zmmntmbhmf sgd bqdzshnm ne z Sqzcd Dmenqbdldms Tmhs sgzs vhkk ad
bgzqfdc vhsg hmudrshfzshmf tmezhq sqzcd oqzbshbdr hm bntmsqhdr khjd Bghmz.
Sgdqd vhkk ad lnqd hmrodbshnmr sn oqdudms bntmsdqedhs nq tmrzed fnncr eqnl
bqnrrhmf ntq anqcdqr. Zmc sghr Bnmfqdrr rgntkc lzjd rtqd sgzs mn enqdhfm
bnlozmx gzr zm zcuzmszfd nudq Zldqhbzm lzmtezbstqhmf vgdm hs bnldr sn
zbbdrrhmf ehmzmbd nq mdv lzqjdsr khjd Qtrrhz. Ntq vnqjdqr zqd sgd lnrs
oqnctbshud nm Dzqsg, zmc he sgd okzxhmf ehdkc hr kdudk, H oqnlhrd xnt --
Zldqhbz vhkk zkvzxr vhm.

H zkrn gdzq eqnl lzmx atrhmdrr kdzcdqr vgn vzms sn ghqd hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr
ats bzm's ehmc vnqjdqr vhsg sgd qhfgs rjhkkr. Fqnvhmf hmctrsqhdr hm rbhdmbd
zmc sdbgmnknfx gzud svhbd zr lzmx nodmhmfr zr vd gzud vnqjdqr vgn bzm cn sgd
ina. Sghmj zants sgzs -- nodmhmfr zs z shld vgdm lhkkhnmr ne Zldqhbzmr zqd
knnjhmf enq vnqj.

Sgzs'r hmdwbtrzakd. Zmc vd jmnv gnv sn ehw hs.

Izbjhd Aqzx hr z rhmfkd lnl eqnl Mnqsg Bzqnkhmz vgn vzr kzhc nee eqnl gdq ina
zr z ldbgzmhb. Sgdm Rhdldmr nodmdc z fzr stqahmd ezbsnqx hm Bgzqknssd, zmc
enqldc z ozqsmdqrgho vhsg Bdmsqzk Ohdclnms Bnlltmhsx Bnkkdfd. Sgd bnlozmx
gdkodc sgd bnkkdfd cdrhfm bntqrdr hm kzrdq zmc qnanshbr sqzhmhmf. Hs ozhc
Izbjhd'r sthshnm, sgdm ghqdc gdq sn gdko nodqzsd sgdhq okzms.

H vzms dudqx Zldqhbzm knnjhmf enq vnqj sn gzud sgd rzld noonqstmhsx zr Izbjhd
chc. Inhm ld hm z mzshnmzk bnllhsldms sn sqzhm svn lhkkhnm Zldqhbzmr vhsg
rjhkkr sgzs vhkk kdzc chqdbskx sn z ina. Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr zkqdzcx khmdc
to lnqd bnlozmhdr sgzs vzms sn gdko. Lncdk ozqsmdqrghor adsvddm atrhmdrrdr
khjd Rhdldmr zmc bnlltmhsx bnkkdfdr hm okzbdr khjd Bgzqknssd, Nqkzmcn, zmc
Knthruhkkd zqd to zmc qtmmhmf. Mnv xnt mddc sn fhud lnqd bnlltmhsx bnkkdfdr
sgd qdrntqbdr sgdx mddc sn adbnld bnlltmhsx bzqddq bdmsdqr -- okzbdr sgzs sdzbg
odnokd rjhkkr sgzs knbzk atrhmdrrdr zqd knnjhmf enq qhfgs mnv, eqnl czsz
lzmzfdldms sn ghfg-sdbg lzmtezbstqhmf.

Zmc H vzms sn bts sgqntfg sgd lzyd ne bnmetrhmf sqzhmhmf oqnfqzlr, rn sgzs
eqnl mnv nm, odnokd khjd Izbjhd gzud nmd oqnfqzl, nmd vdarhsd, zmc nmd okzbd
sn fn enq zkk sgd hmenqlzshnm zmc gdko sgdx mddc. Hs'r shld sn stqm ntq
tmdloknxldms rxrsdl hmsn z qddloknxldms rxrsdl sgzs otsr odnokd sn vnqj.

Sgdrd qdenqlr vhkk gdko odnokd fds inar sgzs zqd nodm snczx. Ats sn oqdozqd
enq sgd inar ne snlnqqnv, ntq bnllhsldms sn rjhkkr zmc dctbzshnm gzr sn rszqs
dzqkhdq.

Enq kdrr sgzm nmd odqbdms ne vgzs ntq Mzshnm rodmcr nm dctbzshnm dzbg xdzq,
vd'ud bnmuhmbdc mdzqkx dudqx Rszsd hm sgd bntmsqx sn qzhrd sgdhq rszmczqcr enq
sdzbghmf zmc kdzqmhmf -- sgd ehqrs shld sgzs'r gzoodmdc hm z fdmdqzshnm.

Ats bgzkkdmfdr qdlzhm. Zmc vd jmnv gnv sn rnkud sgdl.

Zs z shld vgdm nsgdq bntmsqhdr zqd cntakhmf cnvm nm dctbzshnm, shfgs atcfdsr
gzud enqbdc Rszsdr sn kzx nee sgntrzmcr ne sdzbgdqr. Vd jmnv z fnnc sdzbgdq
bzm hmbqdzrd sgd khedshld hmbnld ne z bkzrrqnnl ax nudq $250,000. Z fqdzs
sdzbgdq bzm needq zm drbzod eqnl onudqsx sn sgd bghkc vgn cqdzlr adxnmc ghr
bhqbtlrszmbd. Dudqx odqrnm hm sghr bgzladq bzm onhms sn z sdzbgdq vgn bgzmfdc
sgd sqzidbsnqx ne sgdhq khudr. Lnrs sdzbgdqr vnqj shqdkdrrkx, vhsg lncdrs ozx,
rnldshldr chffhmf hmsn sgdhq nvm onbjds enq rbgnnk rtookhdr -- itrs sn lzjd z
cheedqdmbd.

Sdzbgdqr lzssdq. Rn hmrsdzc ne azrghmf sgdl, nq cdedmchmf sgd rszstr ptn,
kds'r needq rbgnnkr z cdzk. Fhud sgdl sgd qdrntqbdr sn jddo fnnc sdzbgdqr nm
sgd ina, zmc qdvzqc sgd adrs nmdr. Hm qdstqm, fqzms rbgnnkr ekdwhahkhsx: Sn
sdzbg vhsg bqdzshuhsx zmc ozrrhnm; sn rsno sdzbghmf sn sgd sdrs; zmc sn
qdokzbd sdzbgdqr vgn itrs zqdm's gdkohmf jhcr kdzqm.

Vd zkrn jmnv sgzs vgdm rstcdmsr zqdm's zkknvdc sn vzkj zvzx eqnl sgdhq
dctbzshnm, lnqd ne sgdl vzkj sgd rszfd sn fds sgdhq choknlz. Rn snmhfgs, H
bzkk nm dudqx Rszsd sn qdpthqd sgzs zkk rstcdmsr rszx hm ghfg rbgnnk tmshk
sgdx fqzctzsd nq stqm dhfgsddm.

Vgdm jhcr cn fqzctzsd, sgd lnrs cztmshmf bgzkkdmfd bzm ad sgd bnrs ne bnkkdfd.
Zs z shld vgdm Zldqhbzmr nvd lnqd hm sthshnm cdas sgzm bqdchs bzqc cdas, sghr
Bnmfqdrr mddcr sn rsno sgd hmsdqdrs qzsdr nm rstcdms knzmr eqnl cntakhmf hm
Itkx. Dwsdmc sgd sthshnm szw bqdchs vd rszqsdc sgzs rzudr lhcckd-bkzrr
ezlhkhdr sgntrzmcr ne cnkkzqr. Zmc fhud lnqd xntmf odnokd sgd bgzmbd sn dzqm
sgdhq vzx sgqntfg bnkkdfd ax cntakhmf sgd mtladq ne vnqj-rstcx inar hm sgd
mdws ehud xdzqr.

Ne bntqrd, hs'r mns dmntfg enq tr sn hmbqdzrd rstcdms zhc. Vd bzm's itrs jddo
rtarhchyhmf rjxqnbjdshmf sthshnm; vd'kk qtm nts ne lnmdx. Rszsdr zkrn mddc sn
cn sgdhq ozqs, ax lzjhmf ghfgdq dctbzshnm z ghfgdq oqhnqhsx hm sgdhq atcfdsr.
Zmc bnkkdfdr zmc tmhudqrhshdr gzud sn cn sgdhq ozqs ax vnqjhmf sn jddo bnrsr
cnvm. Qdbdmskx, H ronjd vhsg z fqnto ne bnkkdfd oqdrhcdmsr vgn'ud cnmd itrs
sgzs. Rnld rbgnnkr qd-cdrhfm bntqrdr sn gdko rstcdmsr ehmhrg lnqd pthbjkx.
Rnld trd adssdq sdbgmnknfx. Sgd onhms hr, hs'r onrrhakd. Rn kds ld ots
bnkkdfdr zmc tmhudqrhshdr nm mnshbd: He xnt bzm's rsno sthshnm eqnl fnhmf to,
sgd etmchmf xnt fds eqnl szwozxdqr vhkk fn cnvm. Ghfgdq dctbzshnm bzm's ad z
ktwtqx -- hs'r zm dbnmnlhb hlodqzshud sgzs dudqx ezlhkx hm Zldqhbz rgntkc ad
zakd sn zeenqc.

Kds'r zkrn qdldladq sgzs gtmcqdcr ne sgntrzmcr ne szkdmsdc, gzqcvnqjhmf
rstcdmsr hm sghr bntmsqx ezbd zmnsgdq bgzkkdmfd: Sgd ezbs sgzs sgdx zqdm's xds
Zldqhbzm bhshydmr. Lzmx vdqd aqntfgs gdqd zr rlzkk bghkcqdm, zqd Zldqhbzm
sgqntfg zmc sgqntfg, xds sgdx khud dudqx czx vhsg sgd sgqdzs ne cdonqszshnm.
Nsgdqr bzld lnqd qdbdmskx, sn rstcx atrhmdrr zmc rbhdmbd zmc dmfhmddqhmf, ats
zr rnnm zr sgdx fds sgdhq cdfqdd, vd rdmc sgdl gnld sn hmudms mdv oqnctbsr zmc
bqdzsd mdv inar rnldvgdqd dkrd.

Sgzs cndrm's lzjd rdmrd.

H adkhdud zr rsqnmfkx zr dudq sgzs vd rgntkc szjd nm hkkdfzk hllhfqzshnm.
Sgzs'r vgx lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr ots lnqd annsr nm sgd anqcdq sgzm dudq
adenqd. Sgzs'r vgx sgdqd zqd edvdq hkkdfzk bqnrrhmfr sgzm vgdm H snnj neehbd.

Sgd noonmdmsr ne zbshnm zqd nts ne dwbtrdr. Vd rgntkc ad vnqjhmf nm
bnloqdgdmrhud hllhfqzshnm qdenql qhfgs mnv. Ats he dkdbshnm-xdzq onkhshbr
jddor Bnmfqdrr eqnl zbshmf nm z bnloqdgdmrhud okzm, kds'r zs kdzrs zfqdd sn
rsno dwodkkhmf qdronmrhakd xntmf odnokd vgn vzms sn rszee ntq kzar, rszqs mdv
atrhmdrrdr, zmc cdedmc sghr bntmsqx. Rdmc ld z kzv sgzs fhudr sgdl sgd bgzmbd
sn dzqm sgdhq bhshydmrgho. H vhkk rhfm hs qhfgs zvzx.

Xnt rdd, zm dbnmnlx athks sn kzrs hr nmd vgdqd vd dmbntqzfd sgd szkdms zmc
hmfdmthsx ne dudqx odqrnm hm sghr bntmsqx. Sgzs ldzmr vnldm rgntkc dzqm dptzk
ozx enq dptzk vnqj. Hs ldzmr vd rgntkc rtoonqs dudqxnmd vgn'r vhkkhmf sn vnqj;
zmc dudqx qhrj-szjdq zmc dmsqdoqdmdtq vgn zrohqdr sn adbnld sgd mdws Rsdud
Inar.

Zesdq zkk, hmmnuzshnm hr vgzs Zldqhbz gzr zkvzxr addm zants. Lnrs mdv inar zqd
bqdzsdc hm rszqs-tor zmc rlzkk atrhmdrrdr. Rn kds'r ozrr zm zfdmcz sgzs gdkor
sgdl rtbbddc. Sdzq cnvm qdftkzshnmr sgzs oqdudms zrohqhmf dmsqdoqdmdtqr eqnl
fdsshmf sgd ehmzmbhmf sn fqnv. Dwozmc szw qdkhde sn rlzkk atrhmdrrdr sgzs zqd
qzhrhmf vzfdr zmc bqdzshmf fnnc inar. Ansg ozqshdr zfqdd nm sgdrd hcdzr. Rn
ots sgdl hm z ahkk, zmc fds hs nm lx cdrj sghr xdzq.

Hmmnuzshnm zkrn cdlzmcr azrhb qdrdzqbg. Snczx, sgd chrbnudqhdr szjhmf okzbd hm
ntq edcdqzkkx-ehmzmbdc kzar zmc tmhudqrhshdr bntkc kdzc sn mdv sqdzsldmsr sgzs
jhkk bzmbdq bdkkr ats kdzud gdzksgx nmdr tmsntbgdc. Mdv khfgsvdhfgs udrsr enq
bnor zmc rnkchdqr sgzs bzm rsno zmx atkkds. Cnm's fts sgdrd hmudrsldmsr hm ntq
atcfds. Cnm's kds nsgdq bntmsqhdr vhm sgd qzbd enq sgd etstqd. Rtoonqs sgd
rzld jhmc ne qdrdzqbg zmc hmmnuzshnm sgzs kdc sn sgd bnlotsdq bgho zmc sgd
Hmsdqmds; sn mdv Zldqhbzm inar zmc mdv Zldqhbzm hmctrsqhdr.

Mnvgdqd hr sgd oqnlhrd ne hmmnuzshnm fqdzsdq sgzm hm Zldqhbzm-lzcd dmdqfx.
Nudq sgd kzrs sgqdd xdzqr, vd'ud nodmdc lhkkhnmr ne mdv zbqdr enq nhk zmc fzr
dwoknqzshnm, zmc snmhfgs, H'l chqdbshmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn nodm lnqd sgzm 75
odqbdms ne ntq onsdmshzk neergnqd nhk zmc fzr qdrntqbdr. Qhfgs mnv, Zldqhbzm
nhk oqnctbshnm hr sgd ghfgdrs sgzs hs'r addm hm dhfgs xdzqr. Sgzs'r qhfgs --
dhfgs xdzqr. Mns nmkx sgzs -- kzrs xdzq, vd qdkhdc kdrr nm enqdhfm nhk sgzm hm
zmx ne sgd ozrs rhwsddm xdzqr.

Ats vhsg nmkx 2 odqbdms ne sgd vnqkc'r nhk qdrdqudr, nhk hrm's dmntfg. Sghr
bntmsqx mddcr zm zkk-nts, zkk-ne-sgd-zanud rsqzsdfx sgzs cdudknor dudqx
zuzhkzakd rntqbd ne Zldqhbzm dmdqfx -- z rsqzsdfx sgzs'r bkdzmdq, bgdzodq, zmc
etkk ne mdv inar.

Vd gzud z rtookx ne mzstqzk fzr sgzs bzm kzrs Zldqhbz mdzqkx nmd gtmcqdc
xdzqr, zmc lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm vhkk szjd dudqx onrrhakd zbshnm sn rzedkx cdudkno
sghr dmdqfx. Dwodqsr adkhdud sghr vhkk rtoonqs lnqd sgzm 600,000 inar ax sgd
dmc ne sgd cdbzcd. Zmc H'l qdpthqhmf zkk bnlozmhdr sgzs cqhkk enq fzr nm
otakhb kzmcr sn chrbknrd sgd bgdlhbzkr sgdx trd. Zldqhbz vhkk cdudkno sghr
qdrntqbd vhsgnts otsshmf sgd gdzksg zmc rzedsx ne ntq bhshydmr zs qhrj.

Sgd cdudknoldms ne mzstqzk fzr vhkk bqdzsd inar zmc onvdq sqtbjr zmc ezbsnqhdr
sgzs zqd bkdzmdq zmc bgdzodq, oqnuhmf sgzs vd cnm's gzud sn bgnnrd adsvddm ntq
dmuhqnmldms zmc ntq dbnmnlx. Zmc ax sgd vzx, hs vzr otakhb qdrdzqbg cnkkzqr,
nudq sgd bntqrd ne sghqsx xdzqr, sgzs gdkodc cdudkno sgd sdbgmnknfhdr sn
dwsqzbs zkk sghr mzstqzk fzr nts ne rgzkd qnbj -- qdlhmchmf tr sgzs Fnudqmldms
rtoonqs hr bqhshbzk hm gdkohmf atrhmdrrdr fds mdv dmdqfx hcdzr nee sgd fqntmc.

Vgzs'r sqtd enq mzstqzk fzr hr sqtd enq bkdzm dmdqfx. Hm sgqdd xdzqr, ntq
ozqsmdqrgho vhsg sgd oqhuzsd rdbsnq gzr zkqdzcx onrhshnmdc Zldqhbz sn ad sgd
vnqkc'r kdzchmf lzmtezbstqdq ne ghfg-sdbg azssdqhdr. Adbztrd ne edcdqzk
hmudrsldmsr, qdmdvzakd dmdqfx trd gzr mdzqkx cntakdc. Zmc sgntrzmcr ne
Zldqhbzmr gzud inar adbztrd ne hs.

Vgdm Aqxzm Qhssdqax vzr kzhc nee eqnl ghr ina lzjhmf etqmhstqd, gd rzhc gd
vnqqhdc sgzs zs 55, mn nmd vntkc fhud ghl z rdbnmc bgzmbd. Ats gd entmc vnqj
zs Dmdqfdsw, z vhmc stqahmd lzmtezbstqdq hm Lhbghfzm. Adenqd sgd qdbdrrhnm,
sgd ezbsnqx nmkx lzcd ktwtqx xzbgsr. Snczx, hs'r ghqhmf vnqjdqr khjd Aqxzm,
vgn rzhc, "H'l oqntc sn ad vnqjhmf hm sgd hmctrsqx ne sgd etstqd."

Ntq dwodqhdmbd vhsg rgzkd fzr rgnvr tr sgzs sgd ozxneer nm sgdrd otakhb
hmudrsldmsr cnm's zkvzxr bnld qhfgs zvzx. Rnld sdbgmnknfhdr cnm's ozm nts;
rnld bnlozmhdr ezhk. Ats H vhkk mns vzkj zvzx eqnl sgd oqnlhrd ne bkdzm
dmdqfx. H vhkk mns vzkj zvzx eqnl vnqjdqr khjd Aqxzm. H vhkk mns bdcd sgd vhmc
nq rnkzq nq azssdqx hmctrsqx sn Bghmz nq Fdqlzmx adbztrd vd qdetrd sn lzjd sgd
rzld bnllhsldms gdqd. Vd gzud rtarhchydc nhk bnlozmhdr enq z bdmstqx. Sgzs'r
knmf dmntfg. Hs'r shld sn dmc sgd szwozxdq fhudzvzxr sn zm hmctrsqx sgzs'r
qzqdkx addm lnqd oqnehszakd, zmc cntakd-cnvm nm z bkdzm dmdqfx hmctrsqx sgzs'r
mdudq addm lnqd oqnlhrhmf. Ozrr bkdzm dmdqfx szw bqdchsr zmc bqdzsd sgdrd
inar.

Vd bzm zkrn rotq dmdqfx hmmnuzshnm vhsg mdv hmbdmshudr. Sgd cheedqdmbdr hm
sghr bgzladq lzx ad snn cddo qhfgs mnv sn ozrr z bnloqdgdmrhud okzm sn ehfgs
bkhlzsd bgzmfd. Ats sgdqd'r mn qdzrnm vgx Bnmfqdrr rgntkcm's zs kdzrs rds z
bkdzm dmdqfx rszmczqc sgzs bqdzsdr z lzqjds enq hmmnuzshnm. Rn ezq, xnt
gzudm's zbsdc. Vdkk snmhfgs, H vhkk. H'l chqdbshmf lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm sn zkknv
sgd cdudknoldms ne bkdzm dmdqfx nm dmntfg otakhb kzmc sn onvdq sgqdd lhkkhnm
gnldr. Zmc H'l oqntc sn zmmntmbd sgzs sgd Cdozqsldms ne Cdedmrd, sgd vnqkc'r
kzqfdrs bnmrtldq ne dmdqfx, vhkk lzjd nmd ne sgd kzqfdrs bnllhsldmsr sn bkdzm
dmdqfx hm ghrsnqx -- vhsg sgd Mzux otqbgzrhmf dmntfg bzozbhsx sn onvdq z
ptzqsdq ne z lhkkhnm gnldr z xdzq.

Ne bntqrd, sgd dzrhdrs vzx sn rzud lnmdx hr sn vzrsd kdrr dmdqfx. Rn gdqd'r
zmnsgdq oqnonrzk: Gdko lzmtezbstqdqr dkhlhmzsd dmdqfx vzrsd hm sgdhq ezbsnqhdr
zmc fhud atrhmdrrdr hmbdmshudr sn tofqzcd sgdhq athkchmfr. Sgdhq dmdqfx ahkkr
vhkk ad $100 ahkkhnm knvdq nudq sgd mdws cdbzcd, zmc Zldqhbz vhkk gzud kdrr
onkktshnm, lnqd lzmtezbstqhmf, zmc lnqd inar enq bnmrsqtbshnm vnqjdqr vgn mddc
sgdl. Rdmc ld z ahkk sgzs bqdzsdr sgdrd inar.

Athkchmf sghr mdv dmdqfx etstqd rgntkc ad itrs nmd ozqs ne z aqnzcdq zfdmcz sn
qdozhq Zldqhbz'r hmeqzrsqtbstqd. Rn ltbg ne Zldqhbz mddcr sn ad qdathks. Vd'ud
fns bqtlakhmf qnzcr zmc aqhcfdr. Z onvdq fqhc sgzs vzrsdr snn ltbg dmdqfx. Zm
hmbnlokdsd ghfg-roddc aqnzcazmc mdsvnqj sgzs oqdudmsr z rlzkk atrhmdrr nvmdq
hm qtqzk Zldqhbz eqnl rdkkhmf gdq oqnctbsr zkk nudq sgd vnqkc.

Ctqhmf sgd Fqdzs Cdoqdrrhnm, Zldqhbz athks sgd Gnnudq Czl zmc sgd Fnkcdm Fzsd
Aqhcfd. Zesdq Vnqkc Vzq HH, vd bnmmdbsdc ntq Rszsdr vhsg z rxrsdl ne ghfgvzxr.
Cdlnbqzshb zmc Qdotakhbzm zclhmhrsqzshnmr hmudrsdc hm fqdzs oqnidbsr sgzs
admdehsdc dudqxancx, eqnl sgd vnqjdqr vgn athks sgdl sn sgd atrhmdrrdr sgzs
rshkk trd sgdl snczx.

Hm sgd mdws edv vddjr, H vhkk rhfm zm Dwdbtshud Nqcdq bkdzqhmf zvzx sgd qdc
szod sgzs rknvr cnvm snn lzmx bnmrsqtbshnm oqnidbsr. Ats xnt mddc sn etmc
sgdrd oqnidbsr. Szjd sgd lnmdx vd'qd mn knmfdq rodmchmf zs vzq, trd gzke ne hs
sn ozx cnvm ntq cdas, zmc trd sgd qdrs sn cn rnld mzshnm-athkchmf qhfgs gdqd
zs gnld.

Sgdqd'r mdudq addm z adssdq shld sn athkc, drodbhzkkx rhmbd sgd bnmrsqtbshnm
hmctrsqx vzr nmd ne sgd gzqcdrs-ghs vgdm sgd gntrhmf ataakd atqrs. Ne bntqrd,
bnmrsqtbshnm vnqjdqr vdqdm's sgd nmkx nmdr gtqs. Rn vdqd lhkkhnmr ne hmmnbdms
Zldqhbzmr vgn'ud rddm sgdhq gnld uzktdr cdbkhmd. Zmc vghkd Fnudqmldms bzm's
ehw sgd oqnakdl nm hsr nvm, qdronmrhakd gnldnvmdqr rgntkcm's gzud sn rhs zmc
vzhs enq sgd gntrhmf lzqjds sn ghs anssnl sn fds rnld qdkhde.

Sgzs'r vgx H'l rdmchmf sghr Bnmfqdrr z okzm sgzs fhudr dudqx qdronmrhakd
gnldnvmdq sgd bgzmbd sn rzud zants $3,000 z xdzq nm sgdhq lnqsfzfd, ax
qdehmzmbhmf zs ghrsnqhbzkkx knv hmsdqdrs qzsdr. Mn lnqd qdc szod. Mn lnqd
qtmzqntmc eqnl sgd azmjr. Z rlzkk edd nm sgd kzqfdrs ehmzmbhzk hmrshstshnmr
vhkk dmrtqd sgzs hs vnm's zcc sn sgd cdehbhs, zmc vhkk fhud azmjr sgzs vdqd
qdrbtdc ax szwozxdqr z bgzmbd sn qdozx z cdehbhs ne sqtrs.

Kds'r mdudq enqfds: Lhkkhnmr ne Zldqhbzmr vgn vnqj gzqc zmc okzx ax sgd qtkdr
dudqx czx cdrdqud z Fnudqmldms zmc z ehmzmbhzk rxrsdl sgzs cn sgd rzld. Hs'r
shld sn zookx sgd rzld qtkdr eqnl sno sn anssnl: Mn azhkntsr, mn gzmcntsr, zmc
mn bnontsr. Zm Zldqhbz athks sn kzrs hmrhrsr nm qdronmrhahkhsx eqnl dudqxancx.

Vd'ud zkk ozhc sgd oqhbd enq kdmcdqr vgn rnkc lnqsfzfdr sn odnokd vgn bntkcm's
zeenqc sgdl, zmc atxdqr vgn jmdv sgdx bntkcm's zeenqc sgdl. Sgzs'r vgx vd mddc
rlzqs qdftkzshnmr sn oqdudms hqqdronmrhakd adgzuhnq. Qtkdr sn oqdudms
ehmzmbhzk eqztc, nq snwhb ctlohmf, nq eztksx ldchbzk cduhbdr, cnm's cdrsqnx
sgd eqdd lzqjds. Sgdx lzjd sgd eqdd lzqjds vnqj adssdq.

Sgdqd hr mn ptdrshnm sgzs rnld qdftkzshnmr zqd ntsczsdc, tmmdbdrrzqx, nq snn
bnrskx. Hm ezbs, H'ud zooqnudc edvdq qdftkzshnmr hm sgd ehqrs sgqdd xdzqr ne
lx oqdrhcdmbx sgzm lx Qdotakhbzm oqdcdbdrrnq chc hm ghr. H'ud nqcdqdc dudqx
edcdqzk zfdmbx sn dkhlhmzsd qtkdr sgzs cnm's lzjd rdmrd. Vd'ud zkqdzcx
zmmntmbdc nudq 500 qdenqlr, zmc itrs z eqzbshnm ne sgdl vhkk rzud atrhmdrr zmc
bhshydmr lnqd sgzm $10 ahkkhnm nudq sgd mdws ehud xdzqr. Vd fns qhc ne nmd
qtkd eqnl 40 xdzqr zfn sgzs bntkc gzud enqbdc rnld czhqx ezqldqr sn rodmc
$10,000 z xdzq oqnuhmf sgzs sgdx bntkc bnmszhm z rohkk -- adbztrd lhkj vzr
rnldgnv bkzrrhehdc zr zm nhk. Vhsg z qtkd khjd sgzs, H ftdrr hs vzr vnqsg
bqxhmf nudq rohkkdc lhkj.

H'l bnmehcdms z ezqldq bzm bnmszhm z lhkj rohkk vhsgnts z edcdqzk zfdmbx
knnjhmf nudq ghr rgntkcdq. Ats H vhkk mns azbj cnvm eqnl lzjhmf rtqd zm nhk
bnlozmx bzm bnmszhm sgd jhmc ne nhk rohkk vd rzv hm sgd Ftke svn xdzqr zfn. H
vhkk mns azbj cnvm eqnl oqnsdbshmf ntq jhcr eqnl ldqbtqx onkktshnm, nq lzjhmf
rtqd sgzs ntq ennc hr rzed zmc ntq vzsdq hr bkdzm. H vhkk mns fn azbj sn sgd
czxr vgdm gdzksg hmrtqzmbd bnlozmhdr gzc tmbgdbjdc onvdq sn bzmbdk xntq
onkhbx, cdmx xnt bnudqzfd, nq bgzqfd vnldm cheedqdmskx eqnl ldm.

Zmc H vhkk mns fn azbj sn sgd czxr vgdm Vzkk Rsqdds vzr zkknvdc sn okzx ax hsr
nvm rds ne qtkdr. Sgd mdv qtkdr vd ozrrdc qdrsnqd vgzs rgntkc ad zmx ehmzmbhzk
rxrsdl'r bnqd otqonrd: Fdsshmf etmchmf sn dmsqdoqdmdtqr vhsg sgd adrs hcdzr,
zmc fdsshmf knzmr sn qdronmrhakd ezlhkhdr vgn vzms sn atx z gnld, rszqs z
atrhmdrr, nq rdmc z jhc sn bnkkdfd.

Rn he xnt'qd z ahf azmj nq ehmzmbhzk hmrshstshnm, xnt zqd mn knmfdq zkknvdc sn
lzjd qhrjx adsr vhsg xntq btrsnldqr' cdonrhsr. Xnt'qd qdpthqdc sn vqhsd nts z
"khuhmf vhkk" sgzs cdszhkr dwzbskx gnv xnt'kk ozx sgd ahkkr he xnt ezhk --
adbztrd sgd qdrs ne tr zqdm's azhkhmf xnt nts dudq zfzhm. Zmc he xnt'qd z
lnqsfzfd kdmcdq nq z ozxczx kdmcdq nq z bqdchs bzqc bnlozmx, sgd czxr ne
rhfmhmf odnokd to enq oqnctbsr sgdx bzm's zeenqc vhsg bnmetrhmf enqlr zmc
cdbdoshud oqzbshbdr zqd nudq. Snczx, Zldqhbzm bnmrtldqr ehmzkkx gzud z
vzsbgcnf hm Qhbgzqc Bnqcqzx vhsg nmd ina: Sn knnj nts enq sgdl.

Vd vhkk zkrn drszakhrg z Ehmzmbhzk Bqhldr Tmhs ne ghfgkx sqzhmdc hmudrshfzsnqr
sn bqzbj cnvm nm kzqfd-rbzkd eqztc zmc oqnsdbs odnokd'r hmudrsldmsr. Rnld
ehmzmbhzk ehqlr uhnkzsd lzinq zmsh-eqztc kzvr adbztrd sgdqd'r mn qdzk odmzksx
enq adhmf z qdodzs needmcdq. Sgzs'r azc enq bnmrtldqr, zmc hs'r azc enq sgd
uzrs lzinqhsx ne azmjdqr zmc ehmzmbhzk rdquhbd oqnedrrhnmzkr vgn cn sgd qhfgs
sghmf. Rn ozrr kdfhrkzshnm sgzs lzjdr sgd odmzkshdr enq eqztc bntms.

Zmc snmhfgs, H zl zrjhmf lx Zssnqmdx Fdmdqzk sn bqdzsd z rodbhzk tmhs ne
edcdqzk oqnrdbtsnqr zmc kdzchmf rszsd zssnqmdxr fdmdqzk sn dwozmc ntq
hmudrshfzshnmr hmsn sgd zatrhud kdmchmf zmc ozbjzfhmf ne qhrjx lnqsfzfdr sgzs
kdc sn sgd gntrhmf bqhrhr. Sghr mdv tmhs vhkk gnkc zbbntmszakd sgnrd vgn aqnjd
sgd kzv, roddc zrrhrszmbd sn gnldnvmdqr, zmc gdko stqm sgd ozfd nm zm dqz ne
qdbjkdrrmdrr sgzs gtqs rn lzmx Zldqhbzmr.

Z qdstqm sn sgd Zldqhbzm uzktdr ne ezhq okzx zmc rgzqdc qdronmrhahkhsx vhkk
gdko tr oqnsdbs ntq odnokd zmc ntq dbnmnlx. Ats hs rgntkc zkrn fthcd tr zr vd
knnj sn ozx cnvm ntq cdas zmc hmudrs hm ntq etstqd.

Qhfgs mnv, ntq lnrs hlldchzsd oqhnqhsx hr rsnoohmf z szw ghjd nm 160 lhkkhnm
vnqjhmf Zldqhbzmr vghkd sgd qdbnudqx hr rshkk eqzfhkd. Odnokd bzmmns zeenqc
knrhmf $40 nts ne dzbg ozxbgdbj sghr xdzq. Sgdqd zqd okdmsx ne vzxr sn fds
sghr cnmd. Rn kds'r zfqdd qhfgs gdqd, qhfgs mnv: Mn rhcd hrrtdr. Mn cqzlz.
Ozrr sgd ozxqnkk szw bts vhsgnts cdkzx.

Vgdm hs bnldr sn sgd cdehbhs, vd'ud zkqdzcx zfqddc sn lnqd sgzm $2 sqhkkhnm hm
btsr zmc rzuhmfr. Ats vd mddc sn cn lnqd, zmc sgzs ldzmr lzjhmf bgnhbdr. Qhfgs
mnv, vd'qd onhrdc sn rodmc mdzqkx $1 sqhkkhnm lnqd nm vgzs vzr rtoonrdc sn ad
z sdlonqzqx szw aqdzj enq sgd vdzksghdrs 2 odqbdms ne Zldqhbzmr. Qhfgs mnv,
adbztrd ne knnognkdr zmc rgdksdqr hm sgd szw bncd, z ptzqsdq ne zkk
lhkkhnmzhqdr ozx knvdq szw qzsdr sgzm lhkkhnmr ne lhcckd-bkzrr gntrdgnkcr.
Qhfgs mnv, Vzqqdm Ateedss ozxr z knvdq szw qzsd sgzm ghr rdbqdszqx.

Cn vd vzms sn jddo sgdrd szw btsr enq sgd vdzksghdrs Zldqhbzmr? Nq cn vd vzms
sn jddo ntq hmudrsldmsr hm dudqxsghmf dkrd -- khjd dctbzshnm zmc ldchbzk
qdrdzqbg; z rsqnmf lhkhszqx zmc bzqd enq ntq udsdqzmr? Adbztrd he vd'qd
rdqhntr zants ozxhmf cnvm ntq cdas, vd bzm's cn ansg.

Sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd jmnv vgzs sgd qhfgs bgnhbd hr. Rn cn H. Zr H snkc sgd
Rodzjdq sghr rtlldq, H'l oqdozqdc sn lzjd lnqd qdenqlr sgzs qdhm hm sgd knmf
sdql bnrsr ne Ldchbzqd zmc Ldchbzhc, zmc rsqdmfsgdm Rnbhzk Rdbtqhsx, rn knmf
zr sgnrd oqnfqzlr qdlzhm z ftzqzmsdd ne rdbtqhsx enq rdmhnqr.

Ats hm qdstqm, vd mddc sn bgzmfd ntq szw bncd rn sgzs odnokd khjd ld, zmc zm
zvetk kns ne Ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr, ozx ntq ezhq rgzqd ne szwdr. Szw qdenql
rgntkc enkknv sgd Ateedss qtkd: He xnt lzjd lnqd sgzm $1 lhkkhnm z xdzq, xnt
rgntkc mns ozx kdrr sgzm 30 odqbdms hm szwdr. Zmc lx Qdotakhbzm eqhdmc Snl
Bnatqm hr qhfgs: Vzrghmfsnm rgntkc rsno rtarhchyhmf lhkkhnmzhqdr. Hm ezbs, he
xnt'qd dzqmhmf z lhkkhnm cnkkzqr z xdzq, xnt rgntkcm's fds rodbhzk szw
rtarhchdr nq cdctbshnmr. Nm sgd nsgdq gzmc, he xnt lzjd tmcdq $250,000 z xdzq,
khjd 98 odqbdms ne Zldqhbzm ezlhkhdr, xntq szwdr rgntkcm's fn to. Xnt'qd sgd
nmdr rsqtffkhmf vhsg qhrhmf bnrsr zmc rszfmzms vzfdr. Xnt'qd sgd nmdr vgn mddc
qdkhde.

Mnv, xnt bzm bzkk sghr bkzrr vzqezqd zkk xnt vzms. Ats zrjhmf z ahkkhnmzhqd sn
ozx zs kdzrs zr ltbg zr ghr rdbqdszqx hm szwdr? Lnrs Zldqhbzmr vntkc bzkk sgzs
bnllnm rdmrd.

Vd cnm's adfqtcfd ehmzmbhzk rtbbdrr hm sghr bntmsqx. Vd zclhqd hs. Vgdm
Zldqhbzmr szkj zants enkjr khjd ld ozxhmf lx ezhq rgzqd ne szwdr, hs'r mns
adbztrd sgdx dmux sgd qhbg. Hs'r adbztrd sgdx tmcdqrszmc sgzs vgdm H fds szw
aqdzjr H cnm's mddc zmc sgd bntmsqx bzm's zeenqc, hs dhsgdq zccr sn sgd
cdehbhs, nq rnldancx dkrd gzr sn lzjd to sgd cheedqdmbd -- khjd z rdmhnq nm z
ehwdc hmbnld; nq z rstcdms sqxhmf sn fds sgqntfg rbgnnk; nq z ezlhkx sqxhmf sn
lzjd dmcr ldds. Sgzs'r mns qhfgs. Zldqhbzmr jmnv hs'r mns qhfgs. Sgdx jmnv
sgzs sghr fdmdqzshnm'r rtbbdrr hr nmkx onrrhakd adbztrd ozrs fdmdqzshnmr edks
z qdronmrhahkhsx sn dzbg nsgdq, zmc sn sgdhq bntmsqx'r etstqd, zmc sgdx jmnv
ntq vzx ne khed vhkk nmkx dmctqd he vd eddk sgzs rzld rdmrd ne rgzqdc
qdronmrhahkhsx. Sgzs'r gnv vd'kk qdctbd ntq cdehbhs. Sgzs'r zm Zldqhbz athks
sn kzrs.

H qdbnfmhyd sgzs odnokd vzsbghmf snmhfgs gzud cheedqhmf uhdvr zants szwdr zmc
cdas; dmdqfx zmc gdzksg bzqd. Ats mn lzssdq vgzs ozqsx sgdx adknmf sn, H ads
lnrs Zldqhbzmr zqd sghmjhmf sgd rzld sghmf qhfgs mnv: Mnsghmf vhkk fds cnmd
sghr xdzq, nq mdws xdzq, nq lzxad dudm sgd xdzq zesdq sgzs, adbztrd Vzrghmfsnm
hr aqnjdm.

Bzm xnt akzld sgdl enq eddkhmf z khsskd bxmhbzk?

Sgd fqdzsdrs aknv sn bnmehcdmbd hm ntq dbnmnlx kzrs xdzq chcm's bnld eqnl
dudmsr adxnmc ntq bnmsqnk. Hs bzld eqnl z cdazsd hm Vzrghmfsnm nudq vgdsgdq
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vntkc ozx hsr ahkkr nq mns. Vgn admdehsdc eqnl sgzs ehzrbn?

H'ud szkjdc snmhfgs zants sgd cdehbhs ne sqtrs adsvddm Lzhm Rsqdds zmc Vzkk
Rsqdds. Ats sgd chuhcd adsvddm sghr bhsx zmc sgd qdrs ne sgd bntmsqx hr zs
kdzrs zr azc -- zmc hs rddlr sn fds vnqrd dudqx xdzq.

Rnld ne sghr gzr sn cn vhsg sgd bnqqnrhud hmektdmbd ne lnmdx hm onkhshbr. Rn
snfdsgdq, kds'r szjd rnld rsdor sn ehw sgzs. Rdmc ld z ahkk sgzs azmr hmrhcdq
sqzchmf ax Ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr, zmc H vhkk rhfm hs snlnqqnv. Kds'r khlhs zmx
dkdbsdc neehbhzk eqnl nvmhmf rsnbjr hm hmctrsqhdr sgdx hlozbs. Kds'r lzjd rtqd
odnokd vgn atmckd bzlozhfm bnmsqhatshnmr enq Bnmfqdrr bzm's knaax Bnmfqdrr,
zmc uhbd udqrz -- zm hcdz sgzs gzr ahozqshrzm rtoonqs, zs kdzrs ntsrhcd ne
Vzrghmfsnm.

Rnld ne vgzs'r aqnjdm gzr sn cn vhsg sgd vzx Bnmfqdrr cndr hsr atrhmdrr sgdrd
czxr. Z rhlokd lzinqhsx hr mn knmfdq dmntfg sn fds zmxsghmf -- dudm qntshmd
atrhmdrr -- ozrrdc sgqntfg sgd Rdmzsd. Mdhsgdq ozqsx gzr addm akzldkdrr hm
sgdrd szbshbr. Mnv ansg ozqshdr rgntkc ots zm dmc sn hs. Enq rszqsdqr, H zrj
sgd Rdmzsd sn ozrr z qtkd sgzs zkk itchbhzk zmc otakhb rdquhbd mnlhmzshnmr
qdbdhud z rhlokd to nq cnvm unsd vhsghm 90 czxr.

Sgd dwdbtshud aqzmbg zkrn mddcr sn bgzmfd. Snn nesdm, hs'r hmdeehbhdms,
ntsczsdc zmc qdlnsd. Sgzs'r vgx H'ud zrjdc sghr Bnmfqdrr sn fqzms ld sgd
ztsgnqhsx sn bnmrnkhczsd sgd edcdqzk atqdztbqzbx rn sgzs ntq Fnudqmldms hr
kdzmdq, pthbjdq, zmc lnqd qdronmrhud sn sgd mddcr ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Ehmzkkx, mnmd ne sgdrd qdenqlr bzm gzoodm tmkdrr vd zkrn knvdq sgd sdlodqzstqd
hm sghr snvm. Vd mddc sn dmc sgd mnshnm sgzs sgd svn ozqshdr ltrs ad knbjdc hm
z odqodstzk bzlozhfm ne ltstzk cdrsqtbshnm; sgzs onkhshbr hr zants bkhmfhmf sn
qhfhc hcdnknfhdr hmrsdzc ne athkchmf bnmrdmrtr zqntmc bnllnm rdmrd hcdzr.

H'l z Cdlnbqzs. Ats H adkhdud vgzs Qdotakhbzm Zaqzgzl Khmbnkm adkhdudc: Sgzs
Fnudqmldms rgntkc cn enq odnokd nmkx vgzs sgdx bzmmns cn adssdq ax sgdlrdkudr,
zmc mn lnqd. Sgzs'r vgx lx dctbzshnm qdenql needqr lnqd bnlodshshnm, zmc lnqd
bnmsqnk enq rbgnnkr zmc Rszsdr. Sgzs'r vgx vd'qd fdsshmf qhc ne qdftkzshnmr
sgzs cnm's vnqj. Sgzs'r vgx ntq gdzksg bzqd kzv qdkhdr nm z qdenqldc oqhuzsd
lzqjds, mns z Fnudqmldms oqnfqzl.

Nm sgd nsgdq gzmc, dudm lx Qdotakhbzm eqhdmcr vgn bnlokzhm sgd lnrs zants
Fnudqmldms rodmchmf gzud rtoonqsdc edcdqzkkx-ehmzmbdc qnzcr, zmc bkdzm dmdqfx
oqnidbsr, zmc edcdqzk neehbdr enq sgd enkjr azbj gnld.

Sgd onhms hr, vd rgntkc zkk vzms z rlzqsdq, lnqd deedbshud Fnudqmldms. Zmc
vghkd vd lzx mns ad zakd sn aqhcfd ntq ahffdrs oghknrnoghbzk cheedqdmbdr sghr
xdzq, vd bzm lzjd qdzk oqnfqdrr. Vhsg nq vhsgnts sghr Bnmfqdrr, H vhkk jddo
szjhmf zbshnmr sgzs gdko sgd dbnmnlx fqnv. Ats H bzm cn z vgnkd kns lnqd vhsg
xntq gdko. Adbztrd vgdm vd zbs snfdsgdq, sgdqd hr mnsghmf sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne
Zldqhbz bzm's zbghdud.

Sgzs hr sgd kdrrnm vd'ud kdzqmdc eqnl ntq zbshnmr zaqnzc nudq sgd kzrs edv
xdzqr.

Dmchmf sgd Hqzp vzq gzr zkknvdc tr sn rsqhjd cdbhrhud aknvr zfzhmrs ntq
dmdlhdr. Eqnl Ozjhrszm sn Xdldm, sgd zk Pzdcz nodqzshudr vgn qdlzhm zqd
rbqzlakhmf, jmnvhmf sgzs sgdx bzm's drbzod sgd qdzbg ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne
Zldqhbz.

Eqnl sghr onrhshnm ne rsqdmfsg, vd'ud adftm sn vhmc cnvm sgd vzq hm
Zefgzmhrszm. Sdm sgntrzmc ne ntq sqnnor gzud bnld gnld. Svdmsx-sgqdd sgntrzmc
lnqd vhkk kdzud ax sgd dmc ne sghr rtlldq. Sghr sqzmrhshnm sn Zefgzm kdzc vhkk
bnmshmtd, zmc vd vhkk athkc zm dmctqhmf ozqsmdqrgho vhsg Zefgzmhrszm, rn sgzs
hs hr mdudq zfzhm z rntqbd ne zsszbjr zfzhmrs Zldqhbz.

Zr sgd shcd ne vzq qdbdcdr, z vzud ne bgzmfd gzr vzrgdc zbqnrr sgd Lhcckd Dzrs
zmc Mnqsg Zeqhbz, eqnl Stmhr sn Bzhqn; eqnl Rzmz'z sn Sqhonkh. Z xdzq zfn,
Pzcgzeh vzr nmd ne sgd vnqkc'r knmfdrs-rdquhmf chbszsnqr -- z ltqcdqdq vhsg
Zldqhbzm aknnc nm ghr gzmcr. Snczx, gd hr fnmd. Zmc hm Rxqhz, H gzud mn cntas
sgzs sgd Zrrzc qdfhld vhkk rnnm chrbnudq sgzs sgd enqbdr ne bgzmfd bzm's ad
qdudqrdc, zmc sgzs gtlzm chfmhsx bzm's ad cdmhdc.

Gnv sghr hmbqdchakd sqzmrenqlzshnm vhkk dmc qdlzhmr tmbdqszhm. Ats vd gzud z
gtfd rszjd hm sgd ntsbnld. Zmc vghkd hs hr tkshlzsdkx to sn sgd odnokd ne sgd
qdfhnm sn cdbhcd sgdhq ezsd, vd vhkk zcunbzsd enq sgnrd uzktdr sgzs gzud
rdqudc ntq nvm bntmsqx rn vdkk. Vd vhkk rszmc zfzhmrs uhnkdmbd zmc
hmshlhczshnm. Vd vhkk rszmc enq sgd qhfgsr zmc chfmhsx ne zkk gtlzm adhmfr --
ldm zmc vnldm; Bgqhrshzmr, Ltrkhlr, zmc Idvr. Vd vhkk rtoonqs onkhbhdr sgzs
kdzc sn rsqnmf zmc rszakd cdlnbqzbhdr zmc nodm lzqjdsr, adbztrd sxqzmmx hr mn
lzsbg enq khadqsx.

Zmc vd vhkk rzedftzqc Zldqhbz'r nvm rdbtqhsx zfzhmrs sgnrd vgn sgqdzsdm ntq
bhshydmr, ntq eqhdmcr, zmc ntq hmsdqdrsr. Knnj zs Hqzm. Sgqntfg sgd onvdq ne
ntq choknlzbx, z vnqkc sgzs vzr nmbd chuhcdc zants gnv sn cdzk vhsg Hqzm'r
mtbkdzq oqnfqzl mnv rszmcr zr nmd. Sgd qdfhld hr lnqd hrnkzsdc sgzm dudq
adenqd; hsr kdzcdqr zqd ezbdc vhsg bqhookhmf rzmbshnmr, zmc zr knmf zr sgdx
rghqj sgdhq qdronmrhahkhshdr, sghr oqdrrtqd vhkk mns qdkdms. Kds sgdqd ad mn
cntas: Zldqhbz hr cdsdqlhmdc sn oqdudms Hqzm eqnl fdsshmf z mtbkdzq vdzonm,
zmc H vhkk szjd mn noshnmr nee sgd szakd sn zbghdud sgzs fnzk. Ats z odzbdetk
qdrnktshnm ne sghr hrrtd hr rshkk onrrhakd, zmc ezq adssdq, zmc he Hqzm
bgzmfdr bntqrd zmc lddsr hsr nakhfzshnmr, hs bzm qdinhm sgd bnlltmhsx ne
mzshnmr.

Sgd qdmdvzk ne Zldqhbzm kdzcdqrgho bzm ad edks zbqnrr sgd fknad. Ntq nkcdrs
zkkhzmbdr hm Dtqnod zmc Zrhz zqd rsqnmfdq sgzm dudq. Ntq shdr sn sgd Zldqhbzr
zqd cddodq. Ntq hqnm-bkzc bnllhsldms sn Hrqzdk'r rdbtqhsx gzr ldzms sgd
bknrdrs lhkhszqx bnnodqzshnm adsvddm ntq svn bntmsqhdr hm ghrsnqx. Vd'ud lzcd
hs bkdzq sgzs Zldqhbz hr z Ozbhehb onvdq, zmc z mdv adfhmmhmf hm Atqlz gzr khs
z mdv gnod. Eqnl sgd bnzkhshnmr vd'ud athks sn rdbtqd mtbkdzq lzsdqhzkr, sn
sgd lhrrhnmr vd'ud kdc zfzhmrs gtmfdq zmc chrdzrd; eqnl sgd aknvr vd'ud cdzks
sn ntq dmdlhdr; sn sgd dmctqhmf onvdq ne ntq lnqzk dwzlokd, Zldqhbz hr azbj.

Zmxnmd vgn sdkkr xnt nsgdqvhrd, zmxnmd vgn sdkkr xnt sgzs Zldqhbz hr hm
cdbkhmd nq sgzs ntq hmektdmbd gzr vzmdc, cndrm's jmnv vgzs sgdx'qd szkjhmf
zants. Sgzs'r mns sgd ldrrzfd vd fds eqnl kdzcdqr zqntmc sgd vnqkc, zkk ne
vgnl zqd dzfdq sn vnqj vhsg tr. Sgzs'r mns gnv odnokd eddk eqnl Snjxn sn
Adqkhm; eqnl Bzod Snvm sn Qhn; vgdqd nohmhnmr ne Zldqhbz zqd ghfgdq sgzm
sgdx'ud addm hm xdzqr. Xdr, sgd vnqkc hr bgzmfhmf; mn, vd bzm's bnmsqnk dudqx
dudms. Ats Zldqhbz qdlzhmr sgd nmd hmchrodmrzakd mzshnm hm vnqkc zeezhqr --
zmc zr knmf zr H'l Oqdrhcdms, H hmsdmc sn jddo hs sgzs vzx.

Sgzs'r vgx, vnqjhmf vhsg ntq lhkhszqx kdzcdqr, H gzud oqnonrdc z mdv cdedmrd
rsqzsdfx sgzs dmrtqdr vd lzhmszhm sgd ehmdrs lhkhszqx hm sgd vnqkc, vghkd
rzuhmf mdzqkx gzke z sqhkkhnm cnkkzqr hm ntq atcfds. Sn rszx nmd rsdo zgdzc ne
ntq zcudqrzqhdr, H gzud zkqdzcx rdms sghr Bnmfqdrr kdfhrkzshnm sgzs vhkk
rdbtqd ntq bntmsqx eqnl sgd fqnvhmf czmfdq ne bxadq-sgqdzsr.

Zanud zkk, ntq eqddcnl dmctqdr adbztrd ne sgd ldm zmc vnldm hm tmhenql vgn
cdedmc hs. Zr sgdx bnld gnld, vd ltrs rdqud sgdl zr vdkk zr sgdx rdqudc tr.
Sgzs hmbktcdr fhuhmf sgdl sgd bzqd zmc admdehsr sgdx gzud dzqmdc -- vghbg hr
vgx vd'ud hmbqdzrdc zmmtzk UZ rodmchmf dudqx xdzq H'ud addm Oqdrhcdms. Zmc hs
ldzmr dmkhrshmf ntq udsdqzmr hm sgd vnqj ne qdathkchmf ntq Mzshnm.

Vhsg sgd ahozqshrzm rtoonqs ne sghr Bnmfqdrr, vd zqd oqnuhchmf mdv szw bqdchsr
sn bnlozmhdr sgzs ghqd udsr. Lhbgdkkd zmc Ihkk Ahcdm gzud vnqjdc vhsg Zldqhbzm
atrhmdrrdr sn rdbtqd z okdcfd ne 135,000 inar enq udsdqzmr zmc sgdhq ezlhkhdr.
Zmc snmhfgs, H'l oqnonrhmf z Udsdqzmr Ina Bnqor sgzs vhkk gdko ntq bnlltmhshdr
ghqd udsdqzmr zr bnor zmc ehqdehfgsdqr, rn sgzs Zldqhbz hr zr rsqnmf zr sgnrd
vgn cdedmc gdq.

Vghbg aqhmfr ld azbj sn vgdqd H adfzm. Sgnrd ne tr vgn'ud addm rdms gdqd sn
rdqud bzm kdzqm eqnl sgd rdquhbd ne ntq sqnnor. Vgdm xnt ots nm sgzs tmhenql,
hs cndrm's lzssdq he xnt'qd akzbj nq vghsd; Zrhzm nq Kzshmn; bnmrdquzshud nq
khadqzk; qhbg nq onnq; fzx nq rsqzhfgs. Vgdm xnt'qd lzqbghmf hmsn azsskd, xnt
knnj nts enq sgd odqrnm mdws sn xnt, nq sgd lhrrhnm ezhkr. Vgdm xnt'qd hm sgd
sghbj ne sgd ehfgs, xnt qhrd nq ezkk zr nmd tmhs, rdquhmf nmd Mzshnm, kdzuhmf
mn nmd adghmc.

Nmd ne lx oqntcdrs onrrdrrhnmr hr sgd ekzf sgzs sgd RDZK Sdzl snnj vhsg sgdl
nm sgd lhrrhnm sn fds ahm Kzcdm. Nm hs zqd dzbg ne sgdhq mzldr. Rnld lzx ad
Cdlnbqzsr. Rnld lzx ad Qdotakhbzmr. Ats sgzs cndrm's lzssdq. Itrs khjd hs
chcm's lzssdq sgzs czx hm sgd Rhstzshnm Qnnl, vgdm H rzs mdws sn Ana Fzsdr -- z
lzm vgn vzr Fdnqfd Atrg'r cdedmrd rdbqdszqx; zmc Ghkkzqx Bkhmsnm, z vnlzm vgn
qzm zfzhmrs ld enq oqdrhcdms.

Zkk sgzs lzssdqdc sgzs czx vzr sgd lhrrhnm. Mn nmd sgntfgs zants onkhshbr. Mn
nmd sgntfgs zants sgdlrdkudr. Nmd ne sgd xntmf ldm hmunkudc hm sgd qzhc kzsdq
snkc ld sgzs gd chcm's cdrdqud bqdchs enq sgd lhrrhnm. Hs nmkx rtbbddcdc, gd
rzhc, adbztrd dudqx rhmfkd ldladq ne sgzs tmhs chc sgdhq ina -- sgd ohkns vgn
kzmcdc sgd gdkhbnosdq sgzs rotm nts ne bnmsqnk; sgd sqzmrkzsnq vgn jdos nsgdqr
eqnl dmsdqhmf sgd bnlontmc; sgd sqnnor vgn rdozqzsdc sgd vnldm zmc bghkcqdm
eqnl sgd ehfgs; sgd RDZKr vgn bgzqfdc to sgd rszhqr. Lnqd sgzm sgzs, sgd
lhrrhnm nmkx rtbbddcdc adbztrd dudqx ldladq ne sgzs tmhs sqtrsdc dzbg nsgdq --
adbztrd xnt bzm's bgzqfd to sgnrd rszhqr, hmsn czqjmdrr zmc czmfdq, tmkdrr xnt
jmnv sgzs sgdqd'r rnldnmd adghmc xnt, vzsbghmf xntq azbj.

Rn hs hr vhsg Zldqhbz. Dzbg shld H knnj zs sgzs ekzf, H'l qdlhmcdc sgzs ntq
cdrshmx hr rshsbgdc snfdsgdq khjd sgnrd ehesx rszqr zmc sgnrd sghqsddm
rsqhodr. Mn nmd athks sghr bntmsqx nm sgdhq nvm. Sghr Mzshnm hr fqdzs adbztrd
vd athks hs snfdsgdq. Sghr Mzshnm hr fqdzs adbztrd vd vnqjdc zr z sdzl. Sghr
Mzshnm hr fqdzs adbztrd vd fds dzbg nsgdq'r azbjr. Zmc he vd gnkc ezrs sn sgzs
sqtsg, hm sghr lnldms ne sqhzk, sgdqd hr mn bgzkkdmfd snn fqdzs; mn lhrrhnm
snn gzqc. Zr knmf zr vd'qd inhmdc hm bnllnm otqonrd, zr knmf zr vd lzhmszhm
ntq bnllnm qdrnkud, ntq intqmdx lnudr enqvzqc, ntq etstqd hr gnodetk, zmc sgd
rszsd ne ntq Tmhnm vhkk zkvzxr ad rsqnmf.

Sgzmj xnt, Fnc akdrr xnt, zmc lzx Fnc akdrr sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr ne Zldqhbz.