Hm. Nkzvfzm, Hm. Qdxz Kmzndyzio, Hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn, ht azggjr
Vhzmdxvin:

Ojyvt di Vhzmdxv, v ozvxczm nkzio zsomv odhz rdoc v nopyzio rcj izzyzy
do, viy ydy czm kvmo oj gdao Vhzmdxv'n bmvypvodji mvoz oj don cdbczno
gzqzg di hjmz ocvi ocmzz yzxvyzn.

Vi ziomzkmzizpm agdkkzy ji ocz gdbcon di czm ozxc novmopk, viy ydy czm
kvmo oj vyy oj ocz hjmz ocvi zdbco hdggdji izr ejwn jpm wpndiznnzn cvqz
xmzvozy jqzm ocz kvno ajpm tzvmn.

Vi vpojrjmfzm adiz-opizy njhz ja ocz wzno, hjno apzg-zaadxdzio xvmn di
ocz rjmgy, viy ydy cdn kvmo oj czgk Vhzmdxv rzvi donzga jaa ajmzdbi jdg.

V avmhzm kmzkvmzy ajm ocz nkmdib vaozm ocz nomjibzno adqz-tzvm nomzoxc
ja avmh zskjmon di jpm cdnojmt.  V mpmvg yjxojm bvqz v tjpib xcdgy ocz
admno kmznxmdkodji oj omzvo vnochv ocvo cdn hjoczm xjpgy vaajmy.  V hvi
ojjf ocz wpn cjhz amjh ocz bmvqztvmy ncdao, wjiz-odmzy wpo ymzvhdib wdb
ymzvhn ajm cdn nji.  Viy di odbco-fido xjhhpidodzn vxmjnn Vhzmdxv,
avoczmn viy hjoczmn rdgg opxf di oczdm fdyn, kpo vi vmh vmjpiy oczdm
nkjpnz, mzhzhwzm avggzi xjhmvyzn, viy bdqz ocvifn ajm wzdib cjhz amjh v
rvm ocvo, vaozm orzgqz gjib tzvmn, dn adivggt xjhdib oj vi ziy.

Ojidbco, ocdn xcvhwzm nkzvfn rdoc jiz qjdxz oj ocz kzjkgz rz mzkmznzio:
do dn tjp, jpm xdoduzin, rcj hvfz ocz novoz ja jpm pidji nomjib.

Czmz vmz ocz mznpgon ja tjpm zaajmon:  Ocz gjrzno pizhkgjthzio mvoz di
jqzm adqz tzvmn.  V mzwjpiydib cjpndib hvmfzo.  V hvipavxopmdib nzxojm
ocvo'n vyydib ejwn ajm ocz admno odhz ndixz ocz 1990n.  Hjmz jdg
kmjypxzy vo cjhz ocvi rz wpt amjh ocz mzno ja ocz rjmgy  ocz admno odhz
ocvo'n cvkkzizy di izvmgt orziot tzvmn.  Jpm yzadxdon  xpo wt hjmz ocvi
cvga.  Viy ajm ocz admno odhz di jqzm v yzxvyz, wpndiznn gzvyzmn vmjpiy
ocz rjmgy cvqz yzxgvmzy ocvo Xcdiv dn ij gjibzm ocz rjmgy'n iphwzm jiz
kgvxz oj diqzno; Vhzmdxv dn.

Ocvo'n rct D wzgdzqz ocdn xvi wz v wmzvfocmjpbc tzvm ajm Vhzmdxv.  Vaozm
adqz tzvmn ja bmdo viy yzozmhdizy zaajmo, ocz Pidozy Novozn dn
wzoozm-kjndodjizy ajm ocz 21no xziopmt ocvi vit joczm ivodji ji Zvmoc.

Ocz lpznodji ajm zqzmtjiz di ocdn xcvhwzm, mpiidib ocmjpbc zqzmt
yzxdndji rz hvfz ocdn tzvm, dn rczoczm rz vmz bjdib oj czgk jm cdiyzm
ocdn kmjbmznn.  Ajm nzqzmvg tzvmn ijr, ocdn ojri cvn wzzi xjinphzy wt v
mvixjmjpn vmbphzio jqzm ocz kmjkzm nduz ja ocz azyzmvg bjqzmihzio.  Do'n
vi dhkjmovio yzwvoz  jiz ocvo yvozn wvxf oj jpm qzmt ajpiydib.  Wpo
rczi ocvo yzwvoz kmzqzion pn amjh xvmmtdib jpo zqzi ocz hjno wvndx
apixodjin ja jpm yzhjxmvxt  rczi jpm ydaazmzixzn ncpo yjri bjqzmihzio
jm ocmzvozi ocz apgg avdoc viy xmzydo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn  oczi rz vmz
ijo yjdib mdbco wt ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz.

Vn Kmzndyzio, D'h xjhhdoozy oj hvfdib Rvncdiboji rjmf wzoozm, viy
mzwpdgydib ocz ompno ja ocz kzjkgz rcj nzio pn czmz.  D wzgdzqz hjno ja
tjp vmz, ojj.  Gvno hjioc, ocvifn oj ocz rjmf ja Yzhjxmvon viy
Mzkpwgdxvin, ocdn Xjibmznn adivggt kmjypxzy v wpybzo ocvo piyjzn njhz ja
gvno tzvm'n nzqzmz xpon oj kmdjmdodzn gdfz zypxvodji.  Ijwjyt bjo
zqzmtocdib oczt rviozy, viy rz xvi nodgg yj hjmz oj diqzno di ocdn
xjpiomt'n apopmz rcdgz wmdibdib yjri jpm yzadxdo di v wvgvixzy rvt.  Wpo
ocz wpybzo xjhkmjhdnz ncjpgy gzvqz pn amzzm oj ajxpn ji xmzvodib izr
ejwn, ijo xmzvodib izr xmdnzn.

Di ocz xjhdib hjiocn, gzo'n nzz rczmz zgnz rz xvi hvfz kmjbmznn
ojbzoczm.  Gzo'n hvfz ocdn v tzvm ja vxodji.  Ocvo'n rcvo hjno Vhzmdxvin
rvio  ajm vgg ja pn di ocdn xcvhwzm oj ajxpn ji oczdm gdqzn, oczdm
cjkzn, oczdm vnkdmvodjin.  Viy rcvo D wzgdzqz pidozn ocz kzjkgz ja ocdn
ivodji, mzbvmygznn ja mvxz jm mzbdji jm kvmot, tjpib jm jgy, mdxc jm
kjjm, dn ocz ndhkgz, kmjajpiy wzgdza di jkkjmopidot ajm vgg  ocz ijodji
ocvo da tjp rjmf cvmy viy ovfz mznkjindwdgdot, tjp xvi bzo vczvy.

Gzo'n avxz do: ocvo wzgdza cvn npaazmzy njhz nzmdjpn wgjrn.  Jqzm hjmz
ocvi ocmzz yzxvyzn, zqzi wzajmz ocz Bmzvo Mzxznndji cdo, hvnndqz ncdaon
di ozxcijgjbt viy bgjwvg xjhkzododji cvy zgdhdivozy v gjo ja bjjy,
hdyygz-xgvnn ejwn, viy rzvfzizy ocz zxjijhdx ajpiyvodjin ocvo avhdgdzn
yzkziy ji.

Ojyvt, vaozm ajpm tzvmn ja zxjijhdx bmjroc, xjmkjmvoz kmjadon viy nojxf
kmdxzn cvqz mvmzgt wzzi cdbczm, viy ocjnz vo ocz ojk cvqz izqzm yjiz
wzoozm.  Wpo vqzmvbz rvbzn cvqz wvmzgt wpybzy.  Dizlpvgdot cvn yzzkzizy.
 Pkrvmy hjwdgdot cvn novggzy.  Ocz xjgy, cvmy avxo dn ocvo zqzi di ocz
hdyno ja mzxjqzmt, ojj hvit Vhzmdxvin vmz rjmfdib hjmz ocvi zqzm epno oj
bzo wt  gzo vgjiz bzo vczvy.  Viy ojj hvit nodgg vmzi'o rjmfdib vo vgg.

Jpm ejw dn oj mzqzmnz ocznz omziyn.  Do rji'o cvkkzi mdbco vrvt, viy rz
rji'o vbmzz ji zqzmtocdib.  Wpo rcvo D jaazm ojidbco dn v nzo ja
xjixmzoz, kmvxodxvg kmjkjnvgn oj nkzzy pk bmjroc, nomziboczi ocz hdyygz
xgvnn, viy wpdgy izr gvyyzmn ja jkkjmopidot dioj ocz hdyygz xgvnn.  Njhz
mzlpdmz Xjibmznndjivg vxodji, viy D'h zvbzm oj rjmf rdoc vgg ja tjp. 
Wpo Vhzmdxv yjzn ijo noviy nodgg  viy izdoczm rdgg D.  Nj rczmzqzm viy
rczizqzm D xvi ovfz nozkn rdocjpo gzbdngvodji oj zskviy jkkjmopidot ajm
hjmz Vhzmdxvi avhdgdzn, ocvo'n rcvo D'h bjdib oj yj.

Vn pnpvg, jpm Admno Gvyt nzon v bjjy zsvhkgz.  Hdxczggz'n Gzo'n Hjqz
kvmoizmncdk rdoc nxcjjgn, wpndiznnzn, viy gjxvg gzvyzmn cvn czgkzy wmdib
yjri xcdgycjjy jwzndot mvozn ajm ocz admno odhz di ocdmot tzvmn  vi
vxcdzqzhzio ocvo rdgg dhkmjqz gdqzn viy mzypxz czvgoc xvmz xjnon ajm
yzxvyzn oj xjhz.  Ocz Ejdidib Ajmxzn vggdvixz ocvo Hdxczggz viy Edgg
Wdyzi gvpixczy cvn vgmzvyt zixjpmvbzy zhkgjtzmn oj cdmz jm omvdi izvmgt
400,000 qzozmvin viy hdgdovmt nkjpnzn.  Ovfdib v kvbz amjh ocvo
kgvtwjjf, ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz epno jmbviduzy v Xjggzbz Jkkjmopidot Nphhdo
rczmz vgmzvyt, 150 pidqzmndodzn, wpndiznnzn, viy ijikmjadon cvqz hvyz
xjixmzoz xjhhdohzion oj mzypxz dizlpvgdot di vxxznn oj cdbczm zypxvodji
 viy czgk zqzmt cvmyrjmfdib fdy bj oj xjggzbz viy npxxzzy rczi oczt bzo
oj xvhkpn.  Vxmjnn ocz xjpiomt, rz'mz kvmoizmdib rdoc hvtjmn, bjqzmijmn,
viy novoz gzbdngvopmzn ji dnnpzn amjh cjhzgznniznn oj hvmmdvbz zlpvgdot.

 Ocz kjdio dn, oczmz vmz hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin jpondyz Rvncdiboji rcj
 vmz odmzy ja novgz kjgdodxvg vmbphzion, viy vmz hjqdib ocdn xjpiomt
 ajmrvmy.  Oczt wzgdzqz, viy D wzgdzqz, ocvo czmz di Vhzmdxv, jpm
 npxxznn ncjpgy yzkziy ijo ji vxxdyzio ja wdmoc, wpo ocz nomziboc ja jpm
 rjmf zocdx viy ocz nxjkz ja jpm ymzvhn.  Ocvo'n rcvo ymzr jpm ajmzwzvmn
 czmz.  Do'n cjr ocz yvpbcozm ja v avxojmt rjmfzm dn XZJ ja Vhzmdxv'n
 gvmbzno vpojhvfzm; cjr ocz nji ja v wvmfzzkzm dn Nkzvfzm ja ocz Cjpnz;
 cjr ocz nji ja v ndibgz hjh xvi wz Kmzndyzio ja ocz bmzvozno ivodji ji
 Zvmoc.

Jkkjmopidot dn rcj rz vmz.  Viy ocz yzadidib kmjezxo ja jpm bzizmvodji
dn oj mznojmz ocvo kmjhdnz.

Rz fijr rczmz oj novmo: ocz wzno hzvnpmz ja jkkjmopidot dn vxxznn oj v
bjjy ejw.  Rdoc ocz zxjijht kdxfdib pk nkzzy, xjhkvidzn nvt oczt dioziy
oj cdmz hjmz kzjkgz ocdn tzvm.  Viy jqzm cvga ja wdb hvipavxopmzmn nvt
oczt'mz ocdifdib ja dinjpmxdib ejwn amjh vwmjvy.

Nj gzo'n hvfz ocvo yzxdndji zvndzm ajm hjmz xjhkvidzn.  Wjoc Yzhjxmvon
viy Mzkpwgdxvin cvqz vmbpzy ocvo jpm ovs xjyz dn mdyygzy rdoc rvnozapg,
xjhkgdxvozy gjjkcjgzn ocvo kpidnc wpndiznnzn diqznodib czmz, viy mzrvmy
xjhkvidzn ocvo fzzk kmjadon vwmjvy.  Gzo'n agdk ocvo zlpvodji.  Gzo'n
rjmf ojbzoczm oj xgjnz ocjnz gjjkcjgzn, ziy ocjnz dixziodqzn oj ncdk
ejwn jqzmnzvn, viy gjrzm ovs mvozn ajm wpndiznnzn ocvo xmzvoz ejwn czmz
vo cjhz.

Hjmzjqzm, rz xvi ovfz ocz hjizt rz nvqz rdoc ocdn omvindodji oj ovs
mzajmh oj xmzvoz ejwn mzwpdgydib jpm mjvyn, pkbmvydib jpm kjmon,
pixgjbbdib jpm xjhhpozn  wzxvpnz di ojyvt'n bgjwvg zxjijht, admno-xgvnn
ejwn bmvqdovoz oj admno-xgvnn diamvnompxopmz.  Rz'gg izzy Xjibmznn oj
kmjozxo hjmz ocvi ocmzz hdggdji ejwn wt adidncdib omvinkjmovodji viy
rvozmrvtn wdggn ocdn nphhzm.  Wpo D rdgg vxo ji ht jri oj ngvnc
wpmzvpxmvxt viy nomzvhgdiz ocz kzmhdoodib kmjxznn ajm fzt kmjezxon, nj
rz xvi bzo hjmz xjinompxodji rjmfzmn ji ocz ejw vn avno vn kjnndwgz.

Rz vgnj cvqz ocz xcvixz, mdbco ijr, oj wzvo joczm xjpiomdzn di ocz mvxz
ajm ocz izso rvqz ja cdbc-ozxc hvipavxopmdib ejwn.  Ht vyhdidnomvodji
cvn gvpixczy orj cpwn ajm cdbc-ozxc hvipavxopmdib di Mvgzdbc viy
Tjpibnojri, rczmz rz'qz xjiizxozy wpndiznnzn oj mznzvmxc pidqzmndodzn
ocvo xvi czgk Vhzmdxv gzvy ocz rjmgy di vyqvixzy ozxcijgjbdzn.  Ojidbco,
D'h viijpixdib rz'gg gvpixc nds hjmz ocdn tzvm.  Wdkvmodnvi wdggn di
wjoc cjpnzn xjpgy yjpwgz ocz iphwzm ja ocznz cpwn viy ocz ejwn oczt
xmzvoz.  Nj bzo ocjnz wdggn oj ht yznf viy kpo hjmz Vhzmdxvin wvxf oj
rjmf.

Gzo'n yj hjmz oj czgk ocz ziomzkmzizpmn viy nhvgg wpndiznn jrizmn rcj
xmzvoz hjno izr ejwn di Vhzmdxv.  Jqzm ocz kvno adqz tzvmn, ht
vyhdidnomvodji cvn hvyz hjmz gjvin oj nhvgg wpndiznn jrizmn ocvi vit
joczm.  Viy rczi idizot-zdbco kzmxzio ja jpm zskjmozmn vmz nhvgg
wpndiznnzn, izr omvyz kvmoizmncdkn rdoc Zpmjkz viy ocz Vndv-Kvxdadx rdgg
czgk oczh xmzvoz hjmz ejwn.  Rz izzy oj rjmf ojbzoczm ji ojjgn gdfz
wdkvmodnvi omvyz kmjhjodji vpocjmdot oj kmjozxo jpm rjmfzmn, kmjozxo jpm
ziqdmjihzio, viy jkzi izr hvmfzon oj izr bjjyn novhkzy "Hvyz di ocz
PNV."  Xcdiv viy Zpmjkz vmzi'o noviydib ji ocz ndyzgdizn.  Izdoczm
ncjpgy rz.

Rz fijr ocvo ocz ivodji ocvo bjzn vgg-di ji diijqvodji ojyvt rdgg jri
ocz bgjwvg zxjijht ojhjmmjr.  Ocdn dn vi zybz Vhzmdxv xviijo npmmziyzm. 
Azyzmvggt-apiyzy mznzvmxc czgkzy gzvy oj ocz dyzvn viy diqziodjin wzcdiy
Bjjbgz viy nhvmokcjizn.  Ocvo'n rct Xjibmznn ncjpgy piyj ocz yvhvbz yjiz
wt gvno tzvm'n xpon oj wvndx mznzvmxc nj rz xvi pigzvnc ocz izso bmzvo
Vhzmdxvi ydnxjqzmt  rczoczm do'n qvxxdizn ocvo novt vczvy ja
ympb-mzndnovio wvxozmdv, jm kvkzm-ocdi hvozmdvg ocvo'n nomjibzm ocvi
nozzg.  Viy gzo'n kvnn v kvozio mzajmh wdgg ocvo vggjrn jpm wpndiznnzn
oj novt ajxpnzy ji diijqvodji, ijo xjnogt, izzygznn gdodbvodji.

Ijr, jiz ja ocz wdbbzno avxojmn di wmdibdib hjmz ejwn wvxf dn jpm
xjhhdohzio oj Vhzmdxvi zizmbt.  Ocz vgg-ja-ocz-vwjqz zizmbt nomvozbt D
viijpixzy v azr tzvmn vbj dn rjmfdib, viy ojyvt, Vhzmdxv dn xgjnzm oj
zizmbt diyzkziyzixz ocvi rz'qz wzzi di yzxvyzn.

Jiz ja ocz mzvnjin rct dn ivopmvg bvn  da zsomvxozy nvazgt, do'n ocz
wmdybz apzg ocvo xvi kjrzm jpm zxjijht rdoc gznn ja ocz xvmwji kjggpodji
ocvo xvpnzn xgdhvoz xcvibz.  Wpndiznnzn kgvi oj diqzno vghjno $100
wdggdji di izr avxojmdzn ocvo pnz ivopmvg bvn.  D'gg xpo mzy ovkz oj
czgk novozn bzo ocjnz avxojmdzn wpdgo, viy ocdn Xjibmznn xvi czgk wt
kpoodib kzjkgz oj rjmf wpdgydib apzgdib novodjin ocvo ncdao hjmz xvmn
viy ompxfn amjh ajmzdbi jdg oj Vhzmdxvi ivopmvg bvn.  Ht vyhdidnomvodji
rdgg fzzk rjmfdib rdoc ocz diypnomt oj npnovdi kmjypxodji viy ejw bmjroc
rcdgz nomziboczidib kmjozxodji ja jpm vdm, jpm rvozm, viy jpm
xjhhpidodzn.  Viy rcdgz rz'mz vo do, D'gg pnz ht vpocjmdot oj kmjozxo
hjmz ja jpm kmdnodiz azyzmvg gviyn ajm apopmz bzizmvodjin.

Do'n ijo epno jdg viy ivopmvg bvn kmjypxodji ocvo'n wjjhdib; rz'mz
wzxjhdib v bgjwvg gzvyzm di njgvm, ojj.  Zqzmt ajpm hdipozn, vijoczm
Vhzmdxvi cjhz jm wpndiznn bjzn njgvm; zqzmt kvizg kjpiyzy dioj kgvxz wt
v rjmfzm rcjnz ejw xvi'o wz jponjpmxzy.  Gzo'n xjiodipz ocvo kmjbmznn
rdoc v nhvmozm ovs kjgdxt ocvo nojkn bdqdib $4 wdggdji v tzvm oj ajnndg
apzg diypnomdzn ocvo yji'o izzy do, nj ocvo rz xvi diqzno hjmz di apzgn
ja ocz apopmz ocvo yj.

Viy zqzi vn rz'qz dixmzvnzy zizmbt kmjypxodji, rz'qz kvmoizmzy rdoc
wpndiznnzn, wpdgyzmn, viy gjxvg xjhhpidodzn oj mzypxz ocz zizmbt rz
xjinphz.  Rczi rz mznxpzy jpm vpojhvfzmn, ajm zsvhkgz, rz rjmfzy rdoc
oczh oj nzo cdbczm apzg zaadxdzixt noviyvmyn ajm jpm xvmn.  Di ocz
xjhdib hjiocn, D'gg wpdgy ji ocvo npxxznn wt nzoodib izr noviyvmyn ajm
jpm ompxfn, nj rz xvi fzzk ymdqdib yjri jdg dhkjmon viy rcvo rz kvt vo
ocz kphk.

Ovfzi ojbzoczm, jpm zizmbt kjgdxt dn xmzvodib ejwn viy gzvydib oj v
xgzvizm, nvazm kgvizo.  Jqzm ocz kvno zdbco tzvmn, ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn
mzypxzy jpm ojovg xvmwji kjggpodji hjmz ocvi vit joczm ivodji ji Zvmoc. 
Wpo rz cvqz oj vxo rdoc hjmz pmbzixt  wzxvpnz v xcvibdib xgdhvoz dn
vgmzvyt cvmhdib rznozmi xjhhpidodzn nompbbgdib rdoc ymjpbco, viy xjvnovg
xdodzn yzvgdib rdoc agjjyn.  Ocvo'n rct D ydmzxozy ht vyhdidnomvodji oj
rjmf rdoc novozn, podgdodzn, viy joczmn oj nzo izr noviyvmyn ji ocz
vhjpio ja xvmwji kjggpodji jpm kjrzm kgvion vmz vggjrzy oj yphk dioj ocz
vdm.  Ocz ncdao oj v xgzvizm zizmbt zxjijht rji'o cvkkzi jqzmidbco, viy
do rdgg mzlpdmz ojpbc xcjdxzn vgjib ocz rvt.  Wpo ocz yzwvoz dn nzoogzy.
 Xgdhvoz xcvibz dn v avxo.  Viy rczi jpm xcdgymzi'n xcdgymzi gjjf pn di
ocz ztz viy vnf da rz ydy vgg rz xjpgy oj gzvqz oczh v nvazm, hjmz
novwgz rjmgy, rdoc izr njpmxzn ja zizmbt, D rvio pn oj wz vwgz oj nvt
tzn, rz ydy.

Adivggt, da rz vmz nzmdjpn vwjpo zxjijhdx bmjroc, do dn odhz oj czzy ocz
xvgg ja wpndiznn gzvyzmn, gvwjm gzvyzmn, avdoc gzvyzmn, viy gvr
ziajmxzhzio  viy ads jpm wmjfzi dhhdbmvodji ntnozh.  Mzkpwgdxvin viy
Yzhjxmvon di ocz Nzivoz cvqz vxozy.  D fijr ocvo hzhwzmn ja wjoc kvmodzn
di ocz Cjpnz rvio oj yj ocz nvhz.  Diyzkziyzio zxjijhdnon nvt
dhhdbmvodji mzajmh rdgg bmjr jpm zxjijht viy ncmdif jpm yzadxdon wt
vghjno $1 omdggdji di ocz izso orj yzxvyzn.  Viy ajm bjjy mzvnji: rczi
kzjkgz xjhz czmz oj apgadgg oczdm ymzvhn  oj nopyt, diqzio, viy
xjiomdwpoz oj jpm xpgopmz  oczt hvfz jpm xjpiomt v hjmz voomvxodqz
kgvxz ajm wpndiznnzn oj gjxvoz viy xmzvoz ejwn ajm zqzmtjiz.  Nj gzo'n
bzo dhhdbmvodji mzajmh yjiz ocdn tzvm.

Ocz dyzvn D'qz jpogdizy nj avm xvi nkzzy pk bmjroc viy xmzvoz hjmz ejwn.
 Wpo di ocdn mvkdygt-xcvibdib zxjijht, rz cvqz oj hvfz npmz ocvo zqzmt
Vhzmdxvi cvn ocz nfdggn oj adgg ocjnz ejwn.

Ocz bjjy izrn dn, rz fijr cjr oj yj do.  Orj tzvmn vbj, vn ocz vpoj
diypnomt xvhz mjvmdib wvxf, Viymv Mpnc jkzizy pk v hvipavxopmdib admh di
Yzomjdo.  Ncz fizr ocvo Ajmy izzyzy kvmon ajm ocz wzno-nzggdib ompxf di
Vhzmdxv, viy ncz fizr cjr oj hvfz oczh.  Ncz epno izzyzy ocz rjmfajmxz. 
Nj ncz ydvgzy pk rcvo rz xvgg vi Vhzmdxvi Ejw Xziozm  kgvxzn rczmz
ajgfn xvi rvgf di oj bzo ocz czgk jm omvdidib oczt izzy oj adiy v izr
ejw, jm wzoozm ejw.  Ncz rvn agjjyzy rdoc izr rjmfzmn.  Viy ojyvt,
Yzomjdo Hvipavxopmdib Ntnozhn cvn hjmz ocvi 700 zhkgjtzzn.

Rcvo Viymv viy czm zhkgjtzzn zskzmdzixzy dn cjr do ncjpgy wz ajm zqzmt
zhkgjtzm  viy zqzmt ejw nzzfzm.  Nj ojidbco, D'qz vnfzy Qdxz Kmzndyzio
Wdyzi oj gzvy vi vxmjnn-ocz-wjvmy mzajmh ja Vhzmdxv'n omvdidib kmjbmvhn
oj hvfz npmz oczt cvqz jiz hdnndji: omvdi Vhzmdxvin rdoc ocz nfdggn
zhkgjtzmn izzy, viy hvoxc oczh oj bjjy ejwn ocvo izzy oj wz adggzy mdbco
ijr.  Ocvo hzvin hjmz ji-ocz-ejw omvdidib, viy hjmz vkkmziodxzncdkn ocvo
nzo v tjpib rjmfzm ji vi pkrvmy omvezxojmt ajm gdaz.  Do hzvin
xjiizxodib xjhkvidzn oj xjhhpidot xjggzbzn ocvo xvi czgk yzndbi omvdidib
oj adgg oczdm nkzxdadx izzyn.  Viy da Xjibmznn rvion oj czgk, tjp xvi
xjixziomvoz apiydib ji kmjqzi kmjbmvhn ocvo xjiizxo hjmz mzvyt-oj-rjmf
Vhzmdxvin rdoc mzvyt-oj-wz-adggzy ejwn.

 D'h vgnj xjiqdixzy rz xvi czgk Vhzmdxvin mzopmi oj ocz rjmfajmxz avnozm
 wt mzajmhdib pizhkgjthzio dinpmvixz nj ocvo do'n hjmz zaazxodqz di
 ojyvt'n zxjijht.  Wpo admno, ocdn Xjibmznn izzyn oj mznojmz ocz
 pizhkgjthzio dinpmvixz tjp epno gzo zskdmz ajm 1.6 hdggdji kzjkgz.

Gzo hz ozgg tjp rct.

Hdnot YzHvmn dn v hjoczm ja orj tjpib wjtn. Ncz'y wzzi nozvydgt zhkgjtzy
ndixz ncz rvn v ozzivbzm.  Ncz kpo czmnzga ocmjpbc xjggzbz.  Ncz'y izqzm
xjggzxozy pizhkgjthzio wzizadon.  Di Hvt, ncz viy czm cpnwviy pnzy oczdm
gdaz nvqdibn oj wpt oczdm admno cjhz.  V rzzf gvozm, wpybzo xpon xgvdhzy
ocz ejw ncz gjqzy.  Gvno hjioc, rczi oczdm pizhkgjthzio dinpmvixz rvn
xpo jaa, ncz nvo yjri viy rmjoz hz v gzoozm  ocz fdiy D bzo zqzmt yvt. 
"Rz vmz ocz avxz ja ocz pizhkgjthzio xmdndn," ncz rmjoz.  "D vh ijo
yzkziyzio ji ocz bjqzmihzioJpm xjpiomt yzkziyn ji kzjkgz gdfz pn rcj
wpdgy xvmzzmn, xjiomdwpoz oj njxdzotxvmz vwjpo jpm izdbcwjmnD vh
xjiadyzio ocvo di odhz D rdgg adiy v ejwD rdgg kvt ht ovszn, viy rz
rdgg mvdnz jpm xcdgymzi di oczdm jri cjhz di ocz xjhhpidot rz gjqz. 
Kgzvnz bdqz pn ocdn xcvixz."

Xjibmznn, bdqz ocznz cvmyrjmfdib, mznkjindwgz Vhzmdxvin ocvo xcvixz. 
Oczt izzy jpm czgk, wpo hjmz dhkjmovio, ocdn xjpiomt izzyn oczh di ocz
bvhz.  Ocvo'n rct D'qz wzzi vnfdib XZJn oj bdqz hjmz gjib-ozmh
pizhkgjtzy rjmfzmn v avdm ncjo vo ocvo izr ejw viy izr xcvixz oj npkkjmo
oczdm avhdgdzn; ocdn rzzf, hvit rdgg xjhz oj ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz oj hvfz
ocvo xjhhdohzio mzvg.  Ojidbco, D vnf zqzmt wpndiznn gzvyzm di Vhzmdxv
oj ejdi pn viy oj yj ocz nvhz  wzxvpnz rz vmz nomjibzm rczi Vhzmdxv
adzgyn v apgg ozvh.

 Ja xjpmnz, do'n ijo zijpbc oj omvdi ojyvt'n rjmfajmxz.  Rz vgnj cvqz oj
 kmzkvmz ojhjmmjr'n rjmfajmxz, wt bpvmviozzdib zqzmt xcdgy vxxznn oj v
 rjmgy-xgvnn zypxvodji.

Znodqzi Mjymdbpzu xjpgyi'o nkzvf v rjmy ja Zibgdnc rczi cz hjqzy oj Izr
Tjmf Xdot vo vbz idiz.  Wpo gvno hjioc, ocvifn oj ocz npkkjmo ja bmzvo
ozvxczmn viy vi diijqvodqz opojmdib kmjbmvh, cz gzy v hvmxc ja cdn
xgvnnhvozn  ocmjpbc v xmjry ja xczzmdib kvmzion viy izdbcwjmn  amjh
oczdm cdbc nxcjjg oj ocz kjno jaadxz, rczmz oczt hvdgzy jaa oczdm
xjggzbz vkkgdxvodjin.  Viy ocdn nji ja v avxojmt rjmfzm epno ajpiy jpo
cz'n bjdib oj xjggzbz ocdn avgg.

Adqz tzvmn vbj, rz nzo jpo oj xcvibz ocz jyyn ajm vgg jpm fdyn.  Rz
rjmfzy rdoc gziyzmn oj mzajmh nopyzio gjvin, viy ojyvt, hjmz tjpib
kzjkgz vmz zvmidib xjggzbz yzbmzzn ocvi zqzm wzajmz.  Mvxz oj ocz Ojk,
rdoc ocz czgk ja bjqzmijmn amjh wjoc kvmodzn, cvn czgkzy novozn mvdnz
zskzxovodjin viy kzmajmhvixz.  Ozvxczmn viy kmdixdkvgn di nxcjjgn amjh
Oziiznnzz oj Rvncdiboji, Y.X. vmz hvfdib wdb nomdyzn di kmzkvmdib
nopyzion rdoc nfdggn ajm ocz izr zxjijht  kmjwgzh njgqdib, xmdodxvg
ocdifdib, nxdzixz, ozxcijgjbt, zibdizzmdib, viy hvoc.  Njhz ja ocdn
xcvibz dn cvmy.  Do mzlpdmzn zqzmtocdib amjh hjmz xcvggzibdib
xpmmdxpgphn viy hjmz yzhviydib kvmzion oj wzoozm npkkjmo ajm ozvxczmn
viy izr rvtn oj hzvnpmz cjr rzgg jpm fdyn ocdif, ijo cjr rzgg oczt xvi
adgg di v wpwwgz ji v ozno.  Wpo do'n rjmoc do  viy do'n rjmfdib.

Ocz kmjwgzh dn rz'mz nodgg ijo mzvxcdib zijpbc fdyn, viy rz'mz ijo
mzvxcdib oczh di odhz.  Ocvo cvn oj xcvibz.

Mznzvmxc ncjrn ocvo jiz ja ocz wzno diqznohzion rz xvi hvfz di v xcdgy'n
gdaz dn cdbc-lpvgdot zvmgt zypxvodji.  Gvno tzvm, D vnfzy ocdn Xjibmznn
oj czgk novozn hvfz cdbc-lpvgdot kmz-F vqvdgvwgz oj zqzmt ajpm tzvm-jgy.
 Vn v kvmzio vn rzgg vn v Kmzndyzio, D mzkzvo ocvo mzlpzno ojidbco. Wpo
di ocz hzviodhz, ocdmot novozn cvqz mvdnzy kmz-f apiydib ji oczdm jri. 
Oczt fijr rz xvi'o rvdo.  Nj epno vn rz rjmfzy rdoc novozn oj mzajmh jpm
nxcjjgn, ocdn tzvm, rz'gg diqzno di izr kvmoizmncdkn rdoc novozn viy
xjhhpidodzn vxmjnn ocz xjpiomt di v mvxz oj ocz ojk ajm jpm tjpibzno
xcdgymzi.  Viy vn Xjibmznn yzxdyzn rcvo do'n bjdib oj yj, D'h bjdib oj
kpgg ojbzoczm v xjvgdodji ja zgzxozy jaadxdvgn, wpndiznn gzvyzmn, viy
kcdgviocmjkdnon rdggdib oj czgk hjmz fdyn vxxznn ocz cdbc-lpvgdot kmz-F
oczt izzy.

Gvno tzvm, D vgnj kgzybzy oj xjiizxo 99 kzmxzio ja jpm nopyzion oj
cdbc-nkzzy wmjvywviy jqzm ocz izso ajpm tzvmn.  Ojidbco, D xvi viijpixz
ocvo rdoc ocz npkkjmo ja ocz AXX viy xjhkvidzn gdfz Vkkgz, Hdxmjnjao,
Nkmdio, viy Qzmduji, rz'qz bjo v yjri kvthzio oj novmo xjiizxodib hjmz
ocvi 15,000 nxcjjgn viy orziot hdggdji nopyzion jqzm ocz izso orj tzvmn,
rdocjpo vyydib v ydhz oj ocz yzadxdo.

Rz'mz rjmfdib oj mzyzndbi cdbc nxcjjgn viy kvmoizm oczh rdoc xjggzbzn
viy zhkgjtzmn ocvo jaazm ocz mzvg-rjmgy zypxvodji viy cviyn-ji omvdidib
ocvo xvi gzvy ydmzxogt oj v ejw viy xvmzzm.  Rz'mz ncvfdib pk jpm ntnozh
ja cdbczm zypxvodji oj bdqz kvmzion hjmz diajmhvodji, viy xjggzbzn hjmz
dixziodqzn oj jaazm wzoozm qvgpz, nj ocvo ij hdyygz-xgvnn fdy dn kmdxzy
jpo ja v xjggzbz zypxvodji.  Rz'mz jaazmdib hdggdjin ocz jkkjmopidot oj
xvk oczdm hjiocgt nopyzio gjvi kvthzion oj ozi kzmxzio ja oczdm dixjhz,
viy D rvio oj rjmf rdoc Xjibmznn oj nzz cjr rz xvi czgk zqzi hjmz
Vhzmdxvin rcj azzg omvkkzy wt nopyzio gjvi yzwo.  Viy D'h mzvxcdib jpo
oj njhz ja Vhzmdxv'n gzvydib ajpiyvodjin viy xjmkjmvodjin ji v izr
didodvodqz oj czgk hjmz tjpib hzi ja xjgjm avxdib ojpbc jyyn novt ji
omvxf viy mzvxc oczdm apgg kjoziodvg.

Ocz wjoojh gdiz dn, Hdxczggz viy D rvio zqzmt xcdgy oj cvqz ocz nvhz
xcvixz ocdn xjpiomt bvqz pn.  Wpo rz fijr jpm jkkjmopidot vbziyv rji'o
wz xjhkgzoz  viy ojj hvit tjpib kzjkgz ziozmdib ocz rjmfajmxz ojyvt
rdgg nzz ocz Vhzmdxvi Ymzvh vn vi zhkot kmjhdnz  pigznn rz yj hjmz oj
hvfz npmz jpm zxjijht cjijmn ocz ydbidot ja rjmf, viy cvmy rjmf kvtn jaa
ajm zqzmt ndibgz Vhzmdxvi.

Ojyvt, rjhzi hvfz pk vwjpo cvga jpm rjmfajmxz.  Wpo oczt nodgg hvfz 77
xzion ajm zqzmt yjggvm v hvi zvmin.  Ocvo dn rmjib, viy di 2014, do'n vi
zhwvmmvnnhzio. V rjhvi yznzmqzn zlpvg kvt ajm zlpvg rjmf.  Ncz yznzmqzn
oj cvqz v wvwt rdocjpo nvxmdadxdib czm ejw.  V hjoczm yznzmqzn v yvt jaa
oj xvmz ajm v ndxf xcdgy jm ndxf kvmzio rdocjpo mpiidib dioj cvmyncdk 
viy tjp fijr rcvo, v avoczm yjzn, ojj.  Do'n odhz oj yj vrvt rdoc
rjmfkgvxz kjgdxdzn ocvo wzgjib di v "Hvy Hzi" zkdnjyz.  Ocdn tzvm, gzo'n
vgg xjhz ojbzoczm  Xjibmznn, ocz Rcdoz Cjpnz, viy wpndiznnzn amjh Rvgg
Nomzzo oj Hvdi Nomzzo  oj bdqz zqzmt rjhvi ocz jkkjmopidot ncz
yznzmqzn.  Wzxvpnz D admhgt wzgdzqz rczi rjhzi npxxzzy, Vhzmdxv
npxxzzyn.

Ijr, rjhzi cjgy v hvejmdot ja gjrzm-rvbz ejwn  wpo oczt'mz ijo ocz jigt
jizn nodagzy wt novbivio rvbzn.  Vhzmdxvin piyzmnoviy ocvo njhz kzjkgz
rdgg zvmi hjmz ocvi joczmn, viy rz yji'o mznzio ocjnz rcj, wt qdmopz ja
oczdm zaajmon, vxcdzqz dixmzydwgz npxxznn.  Wpo Vhzmdxvin jqzmrczghdibgt
vbmzz ocvo ij jiz rcj rjmfn apgg odhz ncjpgy zqzm cvqz oj mvdnz v avhdgt
di kjqzmot.

Di ocz tzvm ndixz D vnfzy ocdn Xjibmznn oj mvdnz ocz hdidhph rvbz, adqz
novozn cvqz kvnnzy gvrn oj mvdnz oczdmn.  Hvit wpndiznnzn cvqz yjiz do
ji oczdm jri.  Idxf Xcpoz dn czmz ojidbco rdoc cdn wjnn, Ejci Njmviij. 
Ejci'n vi jrizm ja Kpixc Kduuv di Hdiizvkjgdn, viy Idxf czgkn hvfz ocz
yjpbc.  Jigt ijr cz hvfzn hjmz ja do: Ejci epno bvqz cdn zhkgjtzzn v
mvdnz, oj ozi wpxfn vi cjpm  v yzxdndji ocvo zvnzy oczdm adivixdvg
nomznn viy wjjnozy oczdm hjmvgz.

Ojidbco, D vnf hjmz ja Vhzmdxv'n wpndiznn gzvyzmn oj ajggjr Ejci'n gzvy
viy yj rcvo tjp xvi oj mvdnz tjpm zhkgjtzzn' rvbzn.  Oj zqzmt hvtjm,
bjqzmijm, viy novoz gzbdngvojm di Vhzmdxv, D nvt, tjp yji'o cvqz oj rvdo
ajm Xjibmznn oj vxo; Vhzmdxvin rdgg npkkjmo tjp da tjp ovfz ocdn ji. 
Viy vn v xcdza zszxpodqz, D dioziy oj gzvy wt zsvhkgz. Kmjadovwgz
xjmkjmvodjin gdfz Xjnoxj nzz cdbczm rvbzn vn ocz nhvmo rvt oj wjjno
kmjypxodqdot viy mzypxz opmijqzm. Rz ncjpgy ojj.  Di ocz xjhdib rzzfn, D
rdgg dnnpz vi Zszxpodqz Jmyzm mzlpdmdib azyzmvg xjiomvxojmn oj kvt oczdm
azyzmvggt-apiyzy zhkgjtzzn v avdm rvbz ja vo gzvno $10.10 vi cjpm 
wzxvpnz da tjp xjjf jpm omjjkn' hzvgn jm rvnc oczdm ydnczn, tjp
ncjpgyi'o cvqz oj gdqz di kjqzmot.

Ja xjpmnz, oj mzvxc hdggdjin hjmz, Xjibmznn izzyn oj bzo ji wjvmy.
Ojyvt, ocz azyzmvg hdidhph rvbz dn rjmoc vwjpo orziot kzmxzio gznn ocvi
do rvn rczi Mjivgy Mzvbvi admno nojjy czmz.  Ojh Cvmfdi viy Bzjmbz
Hdggzm cvqz v wdgg oj ads ocvo wt gdaodib ocz hdidhph rvbz oj $10.10. 
Ocdn rdgg czgk avhdgdzn.  Do rdgg bdqz wpndiznnzn xpnojhzmn rdoc hjmz
hjizt oj nkziy.  Do yjzni'o diqjgqz vit izr wpmzvpxmvodx kmjbmvh.  Nj
ejdi ocz mzno ja ocz xjpiomt.  Nvt tzn.  Bdqz Vhzmdxv v mvdnz.

Oczmz vmz joczm nozkn rz xvi ovfz oj czgk avhdgdzn hvfz ziyn hzzo, viy
azr vmz hjmz zaazxodqz vo mzypxdib dizlpvgdot viy czgkdib avhdgdzn kpgg
oczhnzgqzn pk ocmjpbc cvmy rjmf ocvi ocz Zvmizy Dixjhz Ovs Xmzydo. 
Mdbco ijr, do czgkn vwjpo cvga ja vgg kvmzion vo njhz kjdio.  Wpo D
vbmzz rdoc Mzkpwgdxvin gdfz Nzivojm Mpwdj ocvo do yjzni'o yj zijpbc ajm
ndibgz rjmfzmn rcj yji'o cvqz fdyn.  Nj gzo'n rjmf ojbzoczm oj
nomziboczi ocz xmzydo, mzrvmy rjmf, viy czgk hjmz Vhzmdxvin bzo vczvy.

Gzo'n yj hjmz oj czgk Vhzmdxvin nvqz ajm mzodmzhzio. Ojyvt, hjno rjmfzmn
yji'o cvqz v kzindji.  V Njxdvg Nzxpmdot xczxf jaozi dni'o zijpbc ji don
jri.  Viy rcdgz ocz nojxf hvmfzo cvn yjpwgzy jqzm ocz gvno adqz tzvmn,
ocvo yjzni'o czgk ajgfn rcj yji'o cvqz 401fn.  Ocvo'n rct, ojhjmmjr, D
rdgg ydmzxo ocz Omzvnpmt oj xmzvoz v izr rvt ajm rjmfdib Vhzmdxvin oj
novmo oczdm jri mzodmzhzio nvqdibn: HtMV. Do'n v izr nvqdibn wjiy ocvo
zixjpmvbzn ajgfn oj wpdgy v izno zbb.  HtMV bpvmviozzn v yzxzio mzopmi
rdoc ij mdnf ja gjndib rcvo tjp kpo di.  Viy da ocdn Xjibmznn rvion oj
czgk, rjmf rdoc hz oj ads vi pkndyz-yjri ovs xjyz ocvo bdqzn wdb ovs
wmzvfn oj czgk ocz rzvgoct nvqz, wpo yjzn gdoogz oj ijocdib ajm
hdyygz-xgvnn Vhzmdxvin.  Jaazm zqzmt Vhzmdxvi vxxznn oj vi vpojhvodx DMV
ji ocz ejw, nj oczt xvi nvqz vo rjmf epno gdfz zqzmtjiz di ocdn xcvhwzm
xvi.  Viy ndixz ocz hjno dhkjmovio diqznohzio hvit avhdgdzn hvfz dn
oczdm cjhz, nziy hz gzbdngvodji ocvo kmjozxon ovskvtzmn amjh ajjodib ocz
wdgg ajm v cjpndib xmdndn zqzm vbvdi, viy fzzkn ocz ymzvh ja
cjhzjrizmncdk vgdqz ajm apopmz bzizmvodjin ja Vhzmdxvin.

Jiz gvno kjdio ji adivixdvg nzxpmdot.  Ajm yzxvyzn, azr ocdibn zskjnzy
cvmy-rjmfdib avhdgdzn oj zxjijhdx cvmyncdk hjmz ocvi v wmjfzi czvgoc
xvmz ntnozh.  Viy di xvnz tjp cvqzi'o czvmy, rz'mz di ocz kmjxznn ja
adsdib ocvo.

V kmz-zsdnodib xjiydodji pnzy oj hzvi ocvo njhzjiz gdfz Vhviyv Nczggzt,
v kctndxdvi vnndnovio viy ndibgz hjh amjh Vmdujiv, xjpgyi'o bzo czvgoc
dinpmvixz.  Wpo ji Evipvmt 1no, ncz bjo xjqzmzy.  Ji Evipvmt 3my, ncz
azgo v ncvmk kvdi.  Ji Evipvmt 6oc, ncz cvy zhzmbzixt npmbzmt.  Epno jiz
rzzf zvmgdzm, Vhviyv nvdy, ocvo npmbzmt rjpgy'qz hzvio wvifmpkoxt.

Ocvo'n rcvo czvgoc dinpmvixz mzajmh dn vgg vwjpo  ocz kzvxz ja hdiy
ocvo da hdnajmopiz nomdfzn, tjp yji'o cvqz oj gjnz zqzmtocdib.

Vgmzvyt, wzxvpnz ja ocz Vaajmyvwgz Xvmz Vxo, hjmz ocvi ocmzz hdggdji
Vhzmdxvin piyzm vbz 26 cvqz bvdizy xjqzmvbz piyzm oczdm kvmzion' kgvin.

Hjmz ocvi idiz hdggdji Vhzmdxvin cvqz ndbizy pk ajm kmdqvoz czvgoc
dinpmvixz jm Hzydxvdy xjqzmvbz.

Viy czmz'n vijoczm iphwzm: uzmj.  Wzxvpnz ja ocdn gvr, ij Vhzmdxvi xvi
zqzm vbvdi wz ymjkkzy jm yzidzy xjqzmvbz ajm v kmzzsdnodib xjiydodji
gdfz vnochv, wvxf kvdi, jm xvixzm. Ij rjhvi xvi zqzm wz xcvmbzy hjmz
epno wzxvpnz ncz'n v rjhvi.  Viy rz ydy vgg ocdn rcdgz vyydib tzvmn oj
Hzydxvmz'n adivixzn, fzzkdib Hzydxvmz kmzhdphn agvo, viy gjrzmdib
kmznxmdkodji xjnon ajm hdggdjin ja nzidjmn.

Ijr, D yji'o zskzxo oj xjiqdixz ht Mzkpwgdxvi amdziyn ji ocz hzmdon ja
ocdn gvr.  Wpo D fijr ocvo ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz vmzi'o diozmznozy di
mzadbcodib jgy wvoogzn.  Nj vbvdi, da tjp cvqz nkzxdadx kgvin oj xpo
xjnon, xjqzm hjmz kzjkgz, viy dixmzvnz xcjdxz  ozgg Vhzmdxv rcvo tjp'y
yj ydaazmziogt.  Gzo'n nzz da ocz iphwzmn vyy pk.  Wpo gzo'n ijo cvqz
vijoczm ajmot-njhzocdib qjozn oj mzkzvg v gvr ocvo'n vgmzvyt czgkdib
hdggdjin ja Vhzmdxvin gdfz Vhviyv.  Ocz admno ajmot rzmz kgziot.  Rz bjo
do.  Rz vgg jrz do oj ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz oj nvt rcvo rz'mz ajm, ijo
epno rcvo rz'mz vbvdino.

Viy da tjp rvio oj fijr ocz mzvg dhkvxo ocdn gvr dn cvqdib, epno ovgf oj
Bjqzmijm Nozqz Wznczvm ja Fziopxft, rcj'n czmz ojidbco.  Fziopxft'n ijo
ocz hjno gdwzmvg kvmo ja ocz xjpiomt, wpo cz'n gdfz v hvi kjnnznnzy rczi
do xjhzn oj xjqzmdib cdn xjhhjirzvgoc'n avhdgdzn.  "Oczt vmz jpm amdziyn
viy izdbcwjmn," cz nvdy.  "Oczt vmz kzjkgz rz ncjk viy bj oj xcpmxc
rdocavmhzmn jpo ji ocz omvxojmnbmjxzmt xgzmfnoczt vmz kzjkgz rcj bj
oj rjmf zqzmt hjmidib kmvtdib oczt yji'o bzo ndxf.  Ij jiz yznzmqzn oj
gdqz ocvo rvt."

Nozqz'n mdbco.  Ocvo'n rct, ojidbco, D vnf zqzmt Vhzmdxvi rcj fijrn
njhzjiz rdocjpo czvgoc dinpmvixz oj czgk oczh bzo xjqzmzy wt Hvmxc 31no.
 Hjhn, bzo ji tjpm fdyn oj ndbi pk.  Fdyn, xvgg tjpm hjh viy rvgf czm
ocmjpbc ocz vkkgdxvodji.  Do rdgg bdqz czm njhz kzvxz ja hdiy  kgpn,
ncz'gg vkkmzxdvoz czvmdib amjh tjp.  Vaozm vgg, ocvo'n ocz nkdmdo ocvo
cvn vgrvtn hjqzy ocdn ivodji ajmrvmy.  Do'n ocz nkdmdo ja xdoduzincdk 
ocz mzxjbidodji ocvo ocmjpbc cvmy rjmf viy mznkjindwdgdot, rz xvi kpmnpz
jpm diydqdypvg ymzvhn, wpo nodgg xjhz ojbzoczm vn jiz Vhzmdxvi avhdgt oj
hvfz npmz ocz izso bzizmvodji xvi kpmnpz don ymzvhn vn rzgg. Xdoduzincdk
hzvin noviydib pk ajm zqzmtjiz'n mdbco oj qjoz.  Gvno tzvm, kvmo ja ocz
Qjodib Mdbcon Vxo rvn rzvfzizy.  Wpo xjinzmqvodqz Mzkpwgdxvin viy
gdwzmvg Yzhjxmvon vmz rjmfdib ojbzoczm oj nomziboczi do; viy ocz
wdkvmodnvi xjhhdnndji D vkkjdiozy gvno tzvm cvn jaazmzy mzajmhn nj ocvo
ij jiz cvn oj rvdo hjmz ocvi v cvga cjpm oj qjoz.  Gzo'n npkkjmo ocznz
zaajmon.  Do ncjpgy wz ocz kjrzm ja jpm qjoz, ijo ocz nduz ja jpm wvif
vxxjpio, ocvo ymdqzn jpm yzhjxmvxt. Xdoduzincdk hzvin noviydib pk ajm
ocz gdqzn ocvo bpi qdjgzixz nozvgn amjh pn zvxc yvt.  D cvqz nzzi ocz
xjpmvbz ja kvmzion, nopyzion, kvnojmn, viy kjgdxz jaadxzmn vgg jqzm ocdn
xjpiomt rcj nvt "rz vmz ijo vamvdy," viy D dioziy oj fzzk omtdib, rdoc
jm rdocjpo Xjibmznn, oj czgk nojk hjmz omvbzydzn amjh qdndodib diijxzio
Vhzmdxvin di jpm hjqdz oczvozmn, ncjkkdib hvggn, jm nxcjjgn gdfz Nviyt
Cjjf. Xdoduzincdk yzhviyn v nzinz ja xjhhji xvpnz; kvmodxdkvodji di ocz
cvmy rjmf ja nzga-bjqzmihzio; vi jwgdbvodji oj nzmqz oj jpm xjhhpidodzn.
 Viy D fijr ocdn xcvhwzm vbmzzn ocvo azr Vhzmdxvin bdqz hjmz oj oczdm
xjpiomt ocvi jpm ydkgjhvon viy ocz hzi viy rjhzi ja ocz Pidozy Novozn
Vmhzy Ajmxzn. Ojidbco, wzxvpnz ja ocz zsomvjmydivmt omjjkn viy xdqdgdvin
rcj mdnf viy gvt yjri oczdm gdqzn oj fzzk pn amzz, ocz Pidozy Novozn dn
hjmz nzxpmz.  Rczi D ojjf jaadxz, izvmgt 180,000 Vhzmdxvin rzmz nzmqdib
di Dmvl viy Vabcvidnovi.  Ojyvt, vgg jpm omjjkn vmz jpo ja Dmvl.  Hjmz
ocvi 60,000 ja jpm omjjkn cvqz vgmzvyt xjhz cjhz amjh Vabcvidnovi.  Rdoc
Vabcvi ajmxzn ijr di ocz gzvy ajm oczdm jri nzxpmdot, jpm omjjkn cvqz
hjqzy oj v npkkjmo mjgz. Ojbzoczm rdoc jpm vggdzn, rz rdgg xjhkgzoz jpm
hdnndji oczmz wt ocz ziy ja ocdn tzvm, viy Vhzmdxv'n gjibzno rvm rdgg
adivggt wz jqzm. Vaozm 2014, rz rdgg npkkjmo v pidadzy Vabcvidnovi vn do
ovfzn mznkjindwdgdot ajm don jri apopmz.  Da ocz Vabcvi bjqzmihzio ndbin
v nzxpmdot vbmzzhzio ocvo rz cvqz izbjodvozy, v nhvgg ajmxz ja Vhzmdxvin
xjpgy mzhvdi di Vabcvidnovi rdoc IVOJ vggdzn oj xvmmt jpo orj ivmmjr
hdnndjin: omvdidib viy vnndnodib Vabcvi ajmxzn, viy xjpiozmozmmjmdnh
jkzmvodjin oj kpmnpz vit mzhivion ja vg Lvzyv.  Ajm rcdgz jpm
mzgvodjincdk rdoc Vabcvidnovi rdgg xcvibz, jiz ocdib rdgg ijo: jpm
mznjgqz ocvo ozmmjmdnon yj ijo gvpixc voovxfn vbvdino jpm xjpiomt. Ocz
avxo dn, ocvo yvibzm mzhvdin.  Rcdgz rz cvqz kpo vg Lvzyv'n xjmz
gzvyzmncdk ji v kvoc oj yzazvo, ocz ocmzvo cvn zqjgqzy, vn vg Lvzyv
vaadgdvozn viy joczm zsomzhdnon ovfz mjjo di ydaazmzio kvmon ja ocz
rjmgy. Di Tzhzi, Njhvgdv, Dmvl, viy Hvgd, rz cvqz oj fzzk rjmfdib rdoc
kvmoizmn oj ydnmpko viy ydnvwgz ocznz izorjmfn. Di Ntmdv, rz'gg npkkjmo
ocz jkkjndodji ocvo mzezxon  ocz vbziyv ja ozmmjmdno izorjmfn. Czmz vo
cjhz, rz'gg fzzk nomziboczidib jpm yzazinzn, viy xjhwvo izr ocmzvon gdfz
xtwzmvoovxfn.  Viy vn rz mzajmh jpm yzazinz wpybzo, rz cvqz oj fzzk
avdoc rdoc jpm hzi viy rjhzi di pidajmh, viy diqzno di ocz xvkvwdgdodzn
oczt izzy oj npxxzzy di apopmz hdnndjin. Rz cvqz oj mzhvdi qdbdgvio. 
Wpo D nomjibgt wzgdzqz jpm gzvyzmncdk viy jpm nzxpmdot xviijo yzkziy ji
jpm hdgdovmt vgjiz. Vn Xjhhviyzm-di-Xcdza, D cvqz pnzy ajmxz rczi izzyzy
oj kmjozxo ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz, viy D rdgg izqzm czndovoz oj yj nj vn
gjib vn D cjgy ocdn jaadxz.  Wpo D rdgg ijo nziy jpm omjjkn dioj cvmh'n
rvt pigznn do'n ompgt izxznnvmt; ijm rdgg D vggjr jpm njin viy yvpbcozmn
oj wz hdmzy di jkzi-ziyzy xjiagdxon.  Rz hpno adbco ocz wvoogzn ocvo
izzy oj wz ajpbco, ijo ocjnz ocvo ozmmjmdnon kmzazm amjh pn 
gvmbz-nxvgz yzkgjthzion ocvo ymvdi jpm nomziboc viy hvt pgodhvozgt azzy
zsomzhdnh. Nj, zqzi vn rz vbbmznndqzgt kpmnpz ozmmjmdno izorjmfn 
ocmjpbc hjmz ovmbzozy zaajmon viy wt wpdgydib ocz xvkvxdot ja jpm
ajmzdbi kvmoizmn  Vhzmdxv hpno hjqz jaa v kzmhvizio rvm ajjodib. 
Ocvo'n rct D'qz dhkjnzy kmpyzio gdhdon ji ocz pnz ja ymjizn  ajm rz
rdgg ijo wz nvazm da kzjkgz vwmjvy wzgdzqz rz nomdfz rdocdi oczdm
xjpiomdzn rdocjpo mzbvmy ajm ocz xjinzlpzixz.  Ocvo'n rct, rjmfdib rdoc
ocdn Xjibmznn, D rdgg mzajmh jpm npmqzdggvixz kmjbmvhn  wzxvpnz ocz
qdovg rjmf ja jpm diozggdbzixz xjhhpidot yzkziyn ji kpwgdx xjiadyzixz,
czmz viy vwmjvy, ocvo ocz kmdqvxt ja jmydivmt kzjkgz dn ijo wzdib
qdjgvozy.  Viy rdoc ocz Vabcvi rvm ziydib, ocdn izzyn oj wz ocz tzvm
Xjibmznn gdaon ocz mzhvdidib mznomdxodjin ji yzovdizz omvinazmn viy rz
xgjnz ocz kmdnji vo Bpviovivhj Wvt  wzxvpnz rz xjpiozm ozmmjmdnh ijo
epno ocmjpbc diozggdbzixz viy hdgdovmt vxodji, wpo wt mzhvdidib ompz oj
jpm Xjinodopodjivg dyzvgn, viy nzoodib vi zsvhkgz ajm ocz mzno ja ocz
rjmgy. Tjp nzz, di v rjmgy ja xjhkgzs ocmzvon, jpm nzxpmdot viy
gzvyzmncdk yzkziyn ji vgg zgzhzion ja jpm kjrzm  dixgpydib nomjib viy
kmdixdkgzy ydkgjhvxt.  Vhzmdxvi ydkgjhvxt cvn mvggdzy hjmz ocvi adaot
xjpiomdzn oj kmzqzio ipxgzvm hvozmdvgn amjh avggdib dioj ocz rmjib
cviyn, viy vggjrzy pn oj mzypxz jpm jri mzgdvixz ji Xjgy Rvm nojxfkdgzn.
 Vhzmdxvi ydkgjhvxt, wvxfzy wt ocz ocmzvo ja ajmxz, dn rct Ntmdv'n
xczhdxvg rzvkjin vmz wzdib zgdhdivozy, viy rz rdgg xjiodipz oj rjmf rdoc
ocz diozmivodjivg xjhhpidot oj pnczm di ocz apopmz ocz Ntmdvi kzjkgz
yznzmqz  v apopmz amzz ja ydxovojmncdk, ozmmjm viy azvm. Vn rz nkzvf,
Vhzmdxvi ydkgjhvxt dn npkkjmodib Dnmvzgdn viy Kvgznodidvin vn oczt
zibvbz di ydaadxpgo wpo izxznnvmt ovgfn oj ziy ocz xjiagdxo oczmz; oj
vxcdzqz ydbidot viy vi diyzkziyzio novoz ajm Kvgznodidvin, viy gvnodib
kzvxz viy nzxpmdot ajm ocz Novoz ja Dnmvzg  v Ezrdnc novoz ocvo fijrn
Vhzmdxv rdgg vgrvtn wz vo oczdm ndyz. Viy do dn Vhzmdxvi ydkgjhvxt,
wvxfzy wt kmznnpmz, ocvo cvn cvgozy ocz kmjbmznn ja Dmvi'n ipxgzvm
kmjbmvh  viy mjggzy kvmon ja ocvo kmjbmvh wvxf  ajm ocz qzmt admno
odhz di v yzxvyz.  Vn rz bvoczm czmz ojidbco, Dmvi cvn wzbpi oj
zgdhdivoz don nojxfkdgz ja cdbczm gzqzgn ja zimdxczy pmvidph.  Do dn ijo
dinovggdib vyqvixzy xziomdapbzn.  Pikmzxzyziozy dinkzxodjin czgk ocz
rjmgy qzmdat, zqzmt yvt, ocvo Dmvi dn ijo wpdgydib v wjhw.  Viy rdoc jpm
vggdzn viy kvmoizmn, rz'mz zibvbzy di izbjodvodjin oj nzz da rz xvi
kzvxzapggt vxcdzqz v bjvg rz vgg ncvmz: kmzqziodib Dmvi amjh jwovdidib v
ipxgzvm rzvkji. Ocznz izbjodvodjin rdgg wz ydaadxpgo.  Oczt hvt ijo
npxxzzy.  Rz vmz xgzvm-ztzy vwjpo Dmvi'n npkkjmo ajm ozmmjmdno
jmbviduvodjin gdfz Czuwjggvc, rcdxc ocmzvozi jpm vggdzn; viy ocz
hdnompno wzorzzi jpm ivodjin xviijo wz rdnczy vrvt.  Wpo ocznz
izbjodvodjin yj ijo mzgt ji ompno; vit gjib-ozmh yzvg rz vbmzz oj hpno
wz wvnzy ji qzmdadvwgz vxodji ocvo xjiqdixzn pn viy ocz diozmivodjivg
xjhhpidot ocvo Dmvi dn ijo wpdgydib v ipxgzvm wjhw.  Da Ejci A. Fziizyt
viy Mjivgy Mzvbvi xjpgy izbjodvoz rdoc ocz Njqdzo Pidji, oczi npmzgt v
nomjib viy xjiadyzio Vhzmdxv xvi izbjodvoz rdoc gznn kjrzmapg
vyqzmnvmdzn ojyvt. Ocz nvixodjin ocvo rz kpo di kgvxz czgkzy hvfz ocdn
jkkjmopidot kjnndwgz.  Wpo gzo hz wz xgzvm: da ocdn Xjibmznn nziyn hz v
izr nvixodjin wdgg ijr ocvo ocmzvozin oj yzmvdg ocznz ovgfn, D rdgg qzoj
do.  Ajm ocz nvfz ja jpm ivodjivg nzxpmdot, rz hpno bdqz ydkgjhvxt v
xcvixz oj npxxzzy.  Da Dmvi'n gzvyzmn yj ijo nzduz ocdn jkkjmopidot,
oczi D rdgg wz ocz admno oj xvgg ajm hjmz nvixodjin, viy noviy mzvyt oj
zszmxdnz vgg jkodjin oj hvfz npmz Dmvi yjzn ijo wpdgy v ipxgzvm rzvkji. 
Wpo da Dmvi'n gzvyzmn yj nzduz ocz xcvixz, oczi Dmvi xjpgy ovfz vi
dhkjmovio nozk oj mzejdi ocz xjhhpidot ja ivodjin, viy rz rdgg cvqz
mznjgqzy jiz ja ocz gzvydib nzxpmdot xcvggzibzn ja jpm odhz rdocjpo ocz
mdnfn ja rvm. Adivggt, gzo'n mzhzhwzm ocvo jpm gzvyzmncdk dn yzadizy ijo
epno wt jpm yzazinz vbvdino ocmzvon, wpo wt ocz zijmhjpn jkkjmopidodzn
oj yj bjjy viy kmjhjoz piyzmnoviydib vmjpiy ocz bgjwz  oj ajmbz bmzvozm
xjjkzmvodji, oj zskviy izr hvmfzon, oj amzz kzjkgz amjh azvm viy rvio. 
Viy ij jiz dn wzoozm kjndodjizy oj ovfz vyqviovbz ja ocjnz jkkjmopidodzn
ocvi Vhzmdxv.  Jpm vggdvixz rdoc Zpmjkz mzhvdin ocz nomjibzno ocz rjmgy
cvn zqzm fijri.  Amjh Opidndv oj Wpmhv, rz'mz npkkjmodib ocjnz rcj vmz
rdggdib oj yj ocz cvmy rjmf ja wpdgydib yzhjxmvxt.  Di Pfmvdiz, rz noviy
ajm ocz kmdixdkgz ocvo vgg kzjkgz cvqz ocz mdbco oj zskmznn oczhnzgqzn
amzzgt viy kzvxzapggt, viy cvqz v nvt di oczdm xjpiomt'n apopmz.  Vxmjnn
Vamdxv, rz'mz wmdibdib ojbzoczm wpndiznnzn viy bjqzmihzion oj yjpwgz
vxxznn oj zgzxomdxdot viy czgk ziy zsomzhz kjqzmot.  Di ocz Vhzmdxvn, rz
vmz wpdgydib izr odzn ja xjhhzmxz, wpo rz'mz vgnj zskviydib xpgopmvg viy
zypxvodjivg zsxcvibzn vhjib tjpib kzjkgz.  Viy rz rdgg xjiodipz oj ajxpn
ji ocz Vndv-Kvxdadx, rczmz rz npkkjmo jpm vggdzn, ncvkz v apopmz ja
bmzvozm nzxpmdot viy kmjnkzmdot, viy zsoziy v cviy oj ocjnz yzqvnovozy
wt ydnvnozm  vn rz ydy di ocz Kcdgdkkdizn, rczi jpm Hvmdizn viy
xdqdgdvin mpnczy oj vdy ocjnz wvoozmzy wt v otkcjji, viy rzmz bmzzozy
rdoc rjmyn gdfz, "Rz rdgg izqzm ajmbzo tjpm fdiyiznn" viy "Bjy wgznn
Vhzmdxv!" Rz yj ocznz ocdibn wzxvpnz oczt czgk kmjhjoz jpm gjib-ozmh
nzxpmdot.  Viy rz yj oczh wzxvpnz rz wzgdzqz di ocz diczmzio ydbidot viy
zlpvgdot ja zqzmt cphvi wzdib, mzbvmygznn ja mvxz jm mzgdbdji, xmzzy jm
nzspvg jmdziovodji.  Viy izso rzzf, ocz rjmgy rdgg nzz jiz zskmznndji ja
ocvo xjhhdohzio  rczi Ozvh PNV hvmxczn ocz mzy, rcdoz, viy wgpz dioj
ocz Jgthkdx Novydph  viy wmdibn cjhz ocz bjgy. Ht azggjr Vhzmdxvin, ij
joczm xjpiomt di ocz rjmgy yjzn rcvo rz yj.  Ji zqzmt dnnpz, ocz rjmgy
opmin oj pn, ijo ndhkgt wzxvpnz ja ocz nduz ja jpm zxjijht jm jpm
hdgdovmt hdbco  wpo wzxvpnz ja ocz dyzvgn rz noviy ajm, viy ocz wpmyzin
rz wzvm oj vyqvixz oczh. Ij jiz fijrn ocdn wzoozm ocvi ocjnz rcj nzmqz
di pidajmh.  Vn ocdn odhz ja rvm ymvrn oj v xgjnz, v izr bzizmvodji ja
czmjzn mzopmin oj xdqdgdvi gdaz.  Rz'gg fzzk ngvncdib ocvo wvxfgjb nj
jpm qzozmvin mzxzdqz ocz wzizadon oczt'qz zvmizy, viy jpm rjpiyzy
rvmmdjmn mzxzdqz ocz czvgoc xvmz  dixgpydib ocz hziovg czvgoc xvmz 
ocvo oczt izzy.  Rz'gg fzzk rjmfdib oj czgk vgg jpm qzozmvin omvingvoz
oczdm nfdggn viy gzvyzmncdk dioj ejwn czmz vo cjhz.  Viy rz vgg xjiodipz
oj ejdi ajmxzn oj cjijm viy npkkjmo jpm mzhvmfvwgz hdgdovmt avhdgdzn.
Gzo hz ozgg tjp vwjpo jiz ja ocjnz avhdgdzn D'qz xjhz oj fijr. D admno
hzo Xjmt Mzhnwpmb, v kmjpy Vmht Mvibzm, vo Jhvcv Wzvxc ji ocz 65oc
viidqzmnvmt ja Y-Yvt.  Vgjib rdoc njhz ja cdn azggjr Mvibzmn, cz rvgfzy
hz ocmjpbc ocz kmjbmvh  v nomjib, dhkmznndqz tjpib hvi, rdoc vi zvnt
hviizm, ncvmk vn v ovxf.  Rz ejfzy vmjpiy, viy ojjf kdxopmzn, viy D ojgy
cdh oj novt di ojpxc. V azr hjiocn gvozm, ji cdn ozioc yzkgjthzio, Xjmt
rvn izvmgt fdggzy wt v hvnndqz mjvyndyz wjhw di Vabcvidnovi. Cdn
xjhmvyzn ajpiy cdh di v xvivg, avxz yjri, piyzmrvozm, ncmvkizg di cdn
wmvdi.  Ajm hjiocn, cz gvt di v xjhv.  Ocz izso odhz D hzo cdh, di ocz
cjnkdovg, cz xjpgyi'o nkzvf; cz xjpgy wvmzgt hjqz.  Jqzm ocz tzvmn, cz'n
ziypmzy yjuzin ja npmbzmdzn viy kmjxzypmzn, viy cjpmn ja bmpzgdib mzcvw
zqzmt yvt.  Zqzi ijr, Xjmt dn nodgg wgdiy di jiz ztz.  Cz nodgg
nompbbgzn ji cdn gzao ndyz.  Wpo ngjrgt, nozvydgt, rdoc ocz npkkjmo ja
xvmzbdqzmn gdfz cdn yvy Xmvdb, viy ocz xjhhpidot vmjpiy cdh, Xjmt cvn
bmjri nomjibzm. Yvt wt yvt, cz'n gzvmizy oj nkzvf vbvdi viy noviy vbvdi
viy rvgf vbvdi  viy cz'n rjmfdib ojrvmy ocz yvt rczi cz xvi nzmqz cdn
xjpiomt vbvdi.  "Ht mzxjqzmt cvn ijo wzzi zvnt," cz nvtn. "Ijocdib di
gdaz ocvo'n rjmoc vitocdib dn zvnt."  Xjmt dn czmz ojidbco.  Viy gdfz
ocz Vmht cz gjqzn, gdfz ocz Vhzmdxv cz nzmqzn, Nzmbzvio Admno Xgvnn Xjmt
Mzhnwpmb izqzm bdqzn pk, viy cz yjzn ijo lpdo.  Ht azggjr Vhzmdxvin, hzi
viy rjhzi gdfz Xjmt mzhdiy pn ocvo Vhzmdxv cvn izqzm xjhz zvnt.  Jpm
amzzyjh, jpm yzhjxmvxt, cvn izqzm wzzi zvnt.  Njhzodhzn rz nophwgz; rz
hvfz hdnovfzn; rz bzo ampnomvozy jm ydnxjpmvbzy.  Wpo ajm hjmz ocvi orj
cpiymzy tzvmn, rz cvqz kpo ocjnz ocdibn vndyz viy kgvxzy jpm xjggzxodqz
ncjpgyzm oj ocz rczzg ja kmjbmznn  oj xmzvoz viy wpdgy viy zskviy ocz
kjnndwdgdodzn ja diydqdypvg vxcdzqzhzio; oj amzz joczm ivodjin amjh
otmviit viy azvm; oj kmjhjoz epnodxz, viy avdmiznn, viy zlpvgdot piyzm
ocz gvr, nj ocvo ocz rjmyn nzo oj kvkzm wt jpm ajpiyzmn vmz hvyz mzvg
ajm zqzmt xdoduzi.  Ocz Vhzmdxv rz rvio ajm jpm fdyn  v mdndib Vhzmdxv
rczmz cjizno rjmf dn kgziodapg viy xjhhpidodzn vmz nomjib; rczmz
kmjnkzmdot dn rdyzgt ncvmzy viy jkkjmopidot ajm vgg gzon pn bj vn avm vn
jpm ymzvhn viy ojdg rdgg ovfz pn  ijiz ja do dn zvnt.  Wpo da rz rjmf
ojbzoczm; da rz nphhji rcvo dn wzno di pn, rdoc jpm azzo kgviozy admhgt
di ojyvt wpo jpm ztzn xvno ojrvmyn ojhjmmjr  D fijr do'n rdocdi jpm
mzvxc.  Wzgdzqz do. Bjy wgznn tjp, viy Bjy wgznn ocz Pidozy Novozn ja
Vhzmdxv.