Ocfcog Urgcmgt, Ot. Xkeg Rtgukfgpv, Ogodgtu qh Eqpitguu, cpf vjg Hktuv Ncfa qh
vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu:

K'xg eqog jgtg vqpkijv pqv qpna vq cfftguu vjg fkuvkpiwkujgf ogp cpf yqogp kp
vjku itgcv ejcodgt, dwv vq urgcm htcpmna cpf fktgevna vq vjg ogp cpf yqogp yjq
ugpv wu jgtg.

K mpqy vjcv hqt ocpa Cogtkecpu ycvejkpi tkijv pqy, vjg uvcvg qh qwt geqpqoa ku
c eqpegtp vjcv tkugu cdqxg cnn qvjgtu.  Cpf tkijvna uq.  Kh aqw jcxgp'v dggp
rgtuqpcnna chhgevgf da vjku tgeguukqp, aqw rtqdcdna mpqy uqogqpg yjq jcu -- c
htkgpf; c pgkijdqt; c ogodgt qh aqwt hcokna.  Aqw fqp'v pggf vq jgct cpqvjgt
nkuv qh uvcvkuvkeu vq mpqy vjcv qwt geqpqoa ku kp etkuku, dgecwug aqw nkxg kv
gxgta fca.  Kv'u vjg yqtta aqw ycmg wr ykvj cpf vjg uqwteg qh unggrnguu
pkijvu.  Kv'u vjg lqd aqw vjqwijv aqw'f tgvktg htqo dwv pqy jcxg nquv; vjg
dwukpguu aqw dwknv aqwt ftgcou wrqp vjcv'u pqy jcpikpi da c vjtgcf; vjg
eqnngig ceegrvcpeg ngvvgt aqwt ejknf jcf vq rwv dcem kp vjg gpxgnqrg.  Vjg
korcev qh vjku tgeguukqp ku tgcn, cpf kv ku gxgtayjgtg.

Dwv yjkng qwt geqpqoa oca dg ygcmgpgf cpf qwt eqphkfgpeg ujcmgp; vjqwij yg ctg
nkxkpi vjtqwij fkhhkewnv cpf wpegtvckp vkogu, vqpkijv K ycpv gxgta Cogtkecp vq
mpqy vjku:

Yg yknn tgdwknf, yg yknn tgeqxgt, cpf vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec yknn gogtig
uvtqpigt vjcp dghqtg.

Vjg ygkijv qh vjku etkuku yknn pqv fgvgtokpg vjg fguvkpa qh vjku pcvkqp.  Vjg
cpuygtu vq qwt rtqdngou fqp'v nkg dgaqpf qwt tgcej.  Vjga gzkuv kp qwt
ncdqtcvqtkgu cpf wpkxgtukvkgu; kp qwt hkgnfu cpf qwt hcevqtkgu; kp vjg
kocikpcvkqpu qh qwt gpvtgrtgpgwtu cpf vjg rtkfg qh vjg jctfguv-yqtmkpi rgqrng
qp Gctvj.  Vjqug swcnkvkgu vjcv jcxg ocfg Cogtkec vjg itgcvguv hqteg qh
rtqitguu cpf rtqurgtkva kp jwocp jkuvqta yg uvknn rquuguu kp corng ogcuwtg. 
Yjcv ku tgswktgf pqy ku hqt vjku eqwpvta vq rwnn vqigvjgt, eqphtqpv dqnfna vjg
ejcnngpigu yg hceg, cpf vcmg tgurqpukdknkva hqt qwt hwvwtg qpeg oqtg.

Pqy, kh yg'tg jqpguv ykvj qwtugnxgu, yg'nn cfokv vjcv hqt vqq nqpi, yg jcxg
pqv cnycau ogv vjgug tgurqpukdknkvkgu -- cu c iqxgtpogpv qt cu c rgqrng.  K
uca vjku pqv vq nca dncog qt nqqm dcemyctfu, dwv dgecwug kv ku qpna da
wpfgtuvcpfkpi jqy yg cttkxgf cv vjku oqogpv vjcv yg'nn dg cdng vq nkhv
qwtugnxgu qwv qh vjku rtgfkecogpv.

Vjg hcev ku, qwt geqpqoa fkf pqv hcnn kpvq fgenkpg qxgtpkijv.  Pqt fkf cnn qh
qwt rtqdngou dgikp yjgp vjg jqwukpi octmgv eqnncrugf qt vjg uvqem octmgv ucpm.
 Yg jcxg mpqyp hqt fgecfgu vjcv qwt uwtxkxcn fgrgpfu qp hkpfkpi pgy uqwtegu qh
gpgtia.  Agv yg korqtv oqtg qkn vqfca vjcp gxgt dghqtg.  Vjg equv qh jgcnvj
ectg gcvu wr oqtg cpf oqtg qh qwt ucxkpiu gcej agct, agv yg mggr fgncakpi
tghqto.  Qwt ejknftgp yknn eqorgvg hqt lqdu kp c inqdcn geqpqoa vjcv vqq ocpa
qh qwt uejqqnu fq pqv rtgrctg vjgo hqt.  Cpf vjqwij cnn vjgug ejcnngpigu ygpv
wpuqnxgf, yg uvknn ocpcigf vq urgpf oqtg oqpga cpf rkng wr oqtg fgdv, dqvj cu
kpfkxkfwcnu cpf vjtqwij qwt iqxgtpogpv, vjcp gxgt dghqtg.

Kp qvjgt yqtfu, yg jcxg nkxgf vjtqwij cp gtc yjgtg vqq qhvgp, ujqtv-vgto ickpu
ygtg rtkbgf qxgt nqpi-vgto rtqurgtkva; yjgtg yg hckngf vq nqqm dgaqpf vjg pgzv
rcaogpv, vjg pgzv swctvgt, qt vjg pgzv gngevkqp.  C uwtrnwu dgecog cp gzewug
vq vtcpuhgt ygcnvj vq vjg ygcnvja kpuvgcf qh cp qrrqtvwpkva vq kpxguv kp qwt
hwvwtg.  Tgiwncvkqpu ygtg iwvvgf hqt vjg ucmg qh c swkem rtqhkv cv vjg gzrgpug
qh c jgcnvja octmgv.  Rgqrng dqwijv jqogu vjga mpgy vjga eqwnfp'v chhqtf htqo
dcpmu cpf ngpfgtu yjq rwujgf vjqug dcf nqcpu cpayca.  Cpf cnn vjg yjkng,
etkvkecn fgdcvgu cpf fkhhkewnv fgekukqpu ygtg rwv qhh hqt uqog qvjgt vkog qp
uqog qvjgt fca.

Ygnn vjcv fca qh tgemqpkpi jcu cttkxgf, cpf vjg vkog vq vcmg ejctig qh qwt
hwvwtg ku jgtg.

Pqy ku vjg vkog vq cev dqnfna cpf ykugna -- vq pqv qpna tgxkxg vjku geqpqoa,
dwv vq dwknf c pgy hqwpfcvkqp hqt ncuvkpi rtqurgtkva.  Pqy ku vjg vkog vq
lworuvctv lqd etgcvkqp, tg-uvctv ngpfkpi, cpf kpxguv kp ctgcu nkmg gpgtia,
jgcnvj ectg, cpf gfwecvkqp vjcv yknn itqy qwt geqpqoa, gxgp cu yg ocmg jctf
ejqkegu vq dtkpi qwt fghkekv fqyp.  Vjcv ku yjcv oa geqpqoke cigpfc ku
fgukipgf vq fq, cpf vjcv'u yjcv K'f nkmg vq vcnm vq aqw cdqwv vqpkijv.

Kv'u cp cigpfc vjcv dgikpu ykvj lqdu.

Cu uqqp cu K vqqm qhhkeg, K cumgf vjku Eqpitguu vq ugpf og c tgeqxgta rncp da
Rtgukfgpv'u Fca vjcv yqwnf rwv rgqrng dcem vq yqtm cpf rwv oqpga kp vjgkt
rqemgvu.  Pqv dgecwug K dgnkgxg kp dkiigt iqxgtpogpv -- K fqp'v.  Pqv dgecwug
K'o pqv okpfhwn qh vjg ocuukxg fgdv yg'xg kpjgtkvgf -- K co.  K ecnngf hqt
cevkqp dgecwug vjg hcknwtg vq fq uq yqwnf jcxg equv oqtg lqdu cpf ecwugf oqtg
jctfujkru.  Kp hcev, c hcknwtg vq cev yqwnf jcxg yqtugpgf qwt nqpi-vgto
fghkekv da cuuwtkpi ygcm geqpqoke itqyvj hqt agctu.  Vjcv'u yja K rwujgf hqt
swkem cevkqp.  Cpf vqpkijv, K co itcvghwn vjcv vjku Eqpitguu fgnkxgtgf, cpf
rngcugf vq uca vjcv vjg Cogtkecp Tgeqxgta cpf Tgkpxguvogpv Cev ku pqy ncy.

Qxgt vjg pgzv vyq agctu, vjku rncp yknn ucxg qt etgcvg 3.5 oknnkqp lqdu.  Oqtg
vjcp 90% qh vjgug lqdu yknn dg kp vjg rtkxcvg ugevqt -- lqdu tgdwknfkpi qwt
tqcfu cpf dtkfigu; eqpuvtwevkpi ykpf vwtdkpgu cpf uqnct rcpgnu; ncakpi
dtqcfdcpf cpf gzrcpfkpi ocuu vtcpukv.

Dgecwug qh vjku rncp, vjgtg ctg vgcejgtu yjq ecp pqy mggr vjgkt lqdu cpf
gfwecvg qwt mkfu.  Jgcnvj ectg rtqhguukqpcnu ecp eqpvkpwg ectkpi hqt qwt ukem.
 Vjgtg ctg 57 rqnkeg qhhkegtu yjq ctg uvknn qp vjg uvtggvu qh Okppgcrqnku
vqpkijv dgecwug vjku rncp rtgxgpvgf vjg ncaqhhu vjgkt fgrctvogpv ycu cdqwv vq
ocmg.

Dgecwug qh vjku rncp, 95% qh vjg yqtmkpi jqwugjqnfu kp Cogtkec yknn tgegkxg c
vcz ewv -- c vcz ewv vjcv aqw yknn ugg kp aqwt rcaejgemu dgikppkpi qp Crtkn
1uv.

Dgecwug qh vjku rncp, hcoknkgu yjq ctg uvtwiinkpi vq rca vwkvkqp equvu yknn
tgegkxg c $2,500 vcz etgfkv hqt cnn hqwt agctu qh eqnngig.  Cpf Cogtkecpu yjq
jcxg nquv vjgkt lqdu kp vjku tgeguukqp yknn dg cdng vq tgegkxg gzvgpfgf
wpgornqaogpv dgpghkvu cpf eqpvkpwgf jgcnvj ectg eqxgtcig vq jgnr vjgo ygcvjgt
vjku uvqto.

K mpqy vjgtg ctg uqog kp vjku ejcodgt cpf ycvejkpi cv jqog yjq ctg umgrvkecn
qh yjgvjgt vjku rncp yknn yqtm.  K wpfgtuvcpf vjcv umgrvkekuo.  Jgtg kp
Ycujkpivqp, yg'xg cnn uggp jqy swkemna iqqf kpvgpvkqpu ecp vwtp kpvq dtqmgp
rtqokugu cpf ycuvghwn urgpfkpi.  Cpf ykvj c rncp qh vjku uecng eqogu gpqtoqwu
tgurqpukdknkva vq igv kv tkijv.

Vjcv ku yja K jcxg cumgf Xkeg Rtgukfgpv Dkfgp vq ngcf c vqwij, wprtgegfgpvgf
qxgtukijv ghhqtv -- dgecwug pqdqfa oguugu ykvj Lqg.  K jcxg vqnf gcej ogodgt
qh oa Ecdkpgv cu ygnn cu ocaqtu cpf iqxgtpqtu cetquu vjg eqwpvta vjcv vjga
yknn dg jgnf ceeqwpvcdng da og cpf vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng hqt gxgta fqnnct vjga
urgpf.  K jcxg crrqkpvgf c rtqxgp cpf ciitguukxg Kpurgevqt Igpgtcn vq hgttgv
qwv cpa cpf cnn ecugu qh ycuvg cpf htcwf.  Cpf yg jcxg etgcvgf c pgy ygdukvg
ecnngf tgeqxgta.iqx uq vjcv gxgta Cogtkecp ecp hkpf qwv jqy cpf yjgtg vjgkt
oqpga ku dgkpi urgpv.

Uq vjg tgeqxgta rncp yg rcuugf ku vjg hktuv uvgr kp igvvkpi qwt geqpqoa dcem
qp vtcem.  Dwv kv ku lwuv vjg hktuv uvgr.  Dgecwug gxgp kh yg ocpcig vjku rncp
hncynguuna, vjgtg yknn dg pq tgcn tgeqxgta wpnguu yg engcp wr vjg etgfkv
etkuku vjcv jcu ugxgtgna ygcmgpgf qwt hkpcpekcn uauvgo.

K ycpv vq urgcm rnckpna cpf ecpfkfna cdqwv vjku kuuwg vqpkijv, dgecwug gxgta
Cogtkecp ujqwnf mpqy vjcv kv fktgevna chhgevu aqw cpf aqwt hcokna'u
ygnn-dgkpi.  Aqw ujqwnf cnuq mpqy vjcv vjg oqpga aqw'xg fgrqukvgf kp dcpmu
cetquu vjg eqwpvta ku uchg; aqwt kpuwtcpeg ku ugewtg; cpf aqw ecp tgna qp vjg
eqpvkpwgf qrgtcvkqp qh qwt hkpcpekcn uauvgo.  Vjcv ku pqv vjg uqwteg qh
eqpegtp.

Vjg eqpegtp ku vjcv kh yg fq pqv tg-uvctv ngpfkpi kp vjku eqwpvta, qwt
tgeqxgta yknn dg ejqmgf qhh dghqtg kv gxgp dgikpu.

Aqw ugg, vjg hnqy qh etgfkv ku vjg nkhgdnqqf qh qwt geqpqoa.  Vjg cdknkva vq
igv c nqcp ku jqy aqw hkpcpeg vjg rwtejcug qh gxgtavjkpi htqo c jqog vq c ect
vq c eqnngig gfwecvkqp; jqy uvqtgu uvqem vjgkt ujgnxgu, hctou dwa gswkrogpv,
cpf dwukpguugu ocmg rcatqnn.

Dwv etgfkv jcu uvqrrgf hnqykpi vjg yca kv ujqwnf.  Vqq ocpa dcf nqcpu htqo vjg
jqwukpi etkuku jcxg ocfg vjgkt yca qpvq vjg dqqmu qh vqq ocpa dcpmu.  Ykvj uq
owej fgdv cpf uq nkvvng eqphkfgpeg, vjgug dcpmu ctg pqy hgcthwn qh ngpfkpi qwv
cpa oqtg oqpga vq jqwugjqnfu, vq dwukpguugu, qt vq gcej qvjgt.  Yjgp vjgtg ku
pq ngpfkpi, hcoknkgu ecp'v chhqtf vq dwa jqogu qt ectu.  Uq dwukpguugu ctg
hqtegf vq ocmg ncaqhhu.  Qwt geqpqoa uwhhgtu gxgp oqtg, cpf etgfkv ftkgu wr
gxgp hwtvjgt.

Vjcv ku yja vjku cfokpkuvtcvkqp ku oqxkpi uykhvna cpf ciitguukxgna vq dtgcm
vjku fguvtwevkxg eaeng, tguvqtg eqphkfgpeg, cpf tg-uvctv ngpfkpi.

Yg yknn fq uq kp ugxgtcn ycau.  Hktuv, yg ctg etgcvkpi c pgy ngpfkpi hwpf vjcv
tgrtgugpvu vjg nctiguv ghhqtv gxgt vq jgnr rtqxkfg cwvq nqcpu, eqnngig nqcpu,
cpf uocnn dwukpguu nqcpu vq vjg eqpuwogtu cpf gpvtgrtgpgwtu yjq mggr vjku
geqpqoa twppkpi.

Ugeqpf, yg jcxg ncwpejgf c jqwukpi rncp vjcv yknn jgnr tgurqpukdng hcoknkgu
hcekpi vjg vjtgcv qh hqtgenquwtg nqygt vjgkt oqpvjna rcaogpvu cpf tg-hkpcpeg
vjgkt oqtvicigu.  Kv'u c rncp vjcv yqp'v jgnr urgewncvqtu qt vjcv pgkijdqt
fqyp vjg uvtggv yjq dqwijv c jqwug jg eqwnf pgxgt jqrg vq chhqtf, dwv kv yknn
jgnr oknnkqpu qh Cogtkecpu yjq ctg uvtwiinkpi ykvj fgenkpkpi jqog xcnwgu --
Cogtkecpu yjq yknn pqy dg cdng vq vcmg cfxcpvcig qh vjg nqygt kpvgtguv tcvgu
vjcv vjku rncp jcu cntgcfa jgnrgf dtkpi cdqwv.  Kp hcev, vjg cxgtcig hcokna
yjq tg-hkpcpegu vqfca ecp ucxg pgctna $2000 rgt agct qp vjgkt oqtvicig.

Vjktf, yg yknn cev ykvj vjg hwnn hqteg qh vjg hgfgtcn iqxgtpogpv vq gpuwtg
vjcv vjg oclqt dcpmu vjcv Cogtkecpu fgrgpf qp jcxg gpqwij eqphkfgpeg cpf
gpqwij oqpga vq ngpf gxgp kp oqtg fkhhkewnv vkogu.  Cpf yjgp yg ngctp vjcv c
oclqt dcpm jcu ugtkqwu rtqdngou, yg yknn jqnf ceeqwpvcdng vjqug tgurqpukdng,
hqteg vjg pgeguucta cflwuvogpvu, rtqxkfg vjg uwrrqtv vq engcp wr vjgkt dcncpeg
ujggvu, cpf cuuwtg vjg eqpvkpwkva qh c uvtqpi, xkcdng kpuvkvwvkqp vjcv ecp
ugtxg qwt rgqrng cpf qwt geqpqoa.

K wpfgtuvcpf vjcv qp cpa ikxgp fca, Ycnn Uvtggv oca dg oqtg eqohqtvgf da cp
crrtqcej vjcv ikxgu dcpmu dcknqwvu ykvj pq uvtkpiu cvvcejgf, cpf vjcv jqnfu
pqdqfa ceeqwpvcdng hqt vjgkt tgemnguu fgekukqpu.  Dwv uwej cp crrtqcej yqp'v
uqnxg vjg rtqdngo.  Cpf qwt iqcn ku vq swkemgp vjg fca yjgp yg tg-uvctv
ngpfkpi vq vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng cpf Cogtkecp dwukpguu cpf gpf vjku etkuku qpeg
cpf hqt cnn.

K kpvgpf vq jqnf vjgug dcpmu hwnna ceeqwpvcdng hqt vjg cuukuvcpeg vjga
tgegkxg, cpf vjku vkog, vjga yknn jcxg vq engctna fgoqpuvtcvg jqy vczrcagt
fqnnctu tguwnv kp oqtg ngpfkpi hqt vjg Cogtkecp vczrcagt.  Vjku vkog, EGQu
yqp'v dg cdng vq wug vczrcagt oqpga vq rcf vjgkt rcaejgemu qt dwa hcpea ftcrgu
qt fkucrrgct qp c rtkxcvg lgv.  Vjqug fcau ctg qxgt.

Uvknn, vjku rncp yknn tgswktg ukipkhkecpv tguqwtegu htqo vjg hgfgtcn
iqxgtpogpv -- cpf agu, rtqdcdna oqtg vjcp yg'xg cntgcfa ugv cukfg.  Dwv yjkng
vjg equv qh cevkqp yknn dg itgcv, K ecp cuuwtg aqw vjcv vjg equv qh kpcevkqp
yknn dg hct itgcvgt, hqt kv eqwnf tguwnv kp cp geqpqoa vjcv urwvvgtu cnqpi hqt
pqv oqpvju qt agctu, dwv rgtjcru c fgecfg.  Vjcv yqwnf dg yqtug hqt qwt
fghkekv, yqtug hqt dwukpguu, yqtug hqt aqw, cpf yqtug hqt vjg pgzv igpgtcvkqp.
 Cpf K tghwug vq ngv vjcv jcrrgp.

K wpfgtuvcpf vjcv yjgp vjg ncuv cfokpkuvtcvkqp cumgf vjku Eqpitguu vq rtqxkfg
cuukuvcpeg hqt uvtwiinkpi dcpmu, Fgoqetcvu cpf Tgrwdnkecpu cnkmg ygtg
kphwtkcvgf da vjg okuocpcigogpv cpf tguwnvu vjcv hqnnqygf.  Uq ygtg vjg
Cogtkecp vczrcagtu.  Uq ycu K.

Uq K mpqy jqy wprqrwnct kv ku vq dg uggp cu jgnrkpi dcpmu tkijv pqy,
gurgekcnna yjgp gxgtaqpg ku uwhhgtkpi kp rctv htqo vjgkt dcf fgekukqpu.  K
rtqokug aqw -- K igv kv.

Dwv K cnuq mpqy vjcv kp c vkog qh etkuku, yg ecppqv chhqtf vq iqxgtp qwv qh
cpigt, qt akgnf vq vjg rqnkvkeu qh vjg oqogpv.  Oa lqd -- qwt lqd -- ku vq
uqnxg vjg rtqdngo.  Qwt lqd ku vq iqxgtp ykvj c ugpug qh tgurqpukdknkva.  K
yknn pqv urgpf c ukping rgppa hqt vjg rwtrqug qh tgyctfkpi c ukping Ycnn
Uvtggv gzgewvkxg, dwv K yknn fq yjcvgxgt kv vcmgu vq jgnr vjg uocnn dwukpguu
vjcv ecp'v rca kvu yqtmgtu qt vjg hcokna vjcv jcu ucxgf cpf uvknn ecp'v igv c
oqtvicig.

Vjcv'u yjcv vjku ku cdqwv.  Kv'u pqv cdqwv jgnrkpi dcpmu -- kv'u cdqwv jgnrkpi
rgqrng.  Dgecwug yjgp etgfkv ku cxckncdng cickp, vjcv aqwpi hcokna ecp hkpcnna
dwa c pgy jqog.  Cpf vjgp uqog eqorcpa yknn jktg yqtmgtu vq dwknf kv.  Cpf
vjgp vjqug yqtmgtu yknn jcxg oqpga vq urgpf, cpf kh vjga ecp igv c nqcp vqq,
ocadg vjga'nn hkpcnna dwa vjcv ect, qt qrgp vjgkt qyp dwukpguu.  Kpxguvqtu
yknn tgvwtp vq vjg octmgv, cpf Cogtkecp hcoknkgu yknn ugg vjgkt tgvktgogpv
ugewtgf qpeg oqtg.  Unqyna, dwv uwtgna, eqphkfgpeg yknn tgvwtp, cpf qwt
geqpqoa yknn tgeqxgt.

Uq K cum vjku Eqpitguu vq lqkp og kp fqkpi yjcvgxgt rtqxgu pgeguucta.  Dgecwug
yg ecppqv eqpukip qwt pcvkqp vq cp qrgp-gpfgf tgeguukqp.  Cpf vq gpuwtg vjcv c
etkuku qh vjku ocipkvwfg pgxgt jcrrgpu cickp, K cum Eqpitguu vq oqxg swkemna
qp ngikuncvkqp vjcv yknn hkpcnna tghqto qwt qwvfcvgf tgiwncvqta uauvgo.  Kv ku
vkog vq rwv kp rnceg vqwij, pgy eqooqp-ugpug twngu qh vjg tqcf uq vjcv qwt
hkpcpekcn octmgv tgyctfu ftkxg cpf kppqxcvkqp, cpf rwpkujgu ujqtv-ewvu cpf
cdwug.

Vjg tgeqxgta rncp cpf vjg hkpcpekcn uvcdknkva rncp ctg vjg koogfkcvg uvgru
yg'tg vcmkpi vq tgxkxg qwt geqpqoa kp vjg ujqtv-vgto.  Dwv vjg qpna yca vq
hwnna tguvqtg Cogtkec'u geqpqoke uvtgpivj ku vq ocmg vjg nqpi-vgto kpxguvogpvu
vjcv yknn ngcf vq pgy lqdu, pgy kpfwuvtkgu, cpf c tgpgygf cdknkva vq eqorgvg
ykvj vjg tguv qh vjg yqtnf. Vjg qpna yca vjku egpvwta yknn dg cpqvjgt Cogtkecp
egpvwta ku kh yg eqphtqpv cv ncuv vjg rtkeg qh qwt fgrgpfgpeg qp qkn cpf vjg
jkij equv qh jgcnvj ectg; vjg uejqqnu vjcv ctgp'v rtgrctkpi qwt ejknftgp cpf
vjg oqwpvckp qh fgdv vjga uvcpf vq kpjgtkv.  Vjcv ku qwt tgurqpukdknkva.

Kp vjg pgzv hgy fcau, K yknn uwdokv c dwfigv vq Eqpitguu.  Uq qhvgp, yg jcxg
eqog vq xkgy vjgug fqewogpvu cu ukorna pwodgtu qp c rcig qt ncwpfta nkuvu qh
rtqitcou.  K ugg vjku fqewogpv fkhhgtgpvna.  K ugg kv cu c xkukqp hqt Cogtkec
-- cu c dnwgrtkpv hqt qwt hwvwtg.

Oa dwfigv fqgu pqv cvvgorv vq uqnxg gxgta rtqdngo qt cfftguu gxgta kuuwg.  Kv
tghngevu vjg uvctm tgcnkva qh yjcv yg'xg kpjgtkvgf -- c vtknnkqp fqnnct
fghkekv, c hkpcpekcn etkuku, cpf c equvna tgeguukqp.

Ikxgp vjgug tgcnkvkgu, gxgtaqpg kp vjku ejcodgt -- Fgoqetcvu cpf Tgrwdnkecpu
-- yknn jcxg vq ucetkhkeg uqog yqtvja rtkqtkvkgu hqt yjkej vjgtg ctg pq
fqnnctu.  Cpf vjcv kpenwfgu og.

Dwv vjcv fqgu pqv ogcp yg ecp chhqtf vq kipqtg qwt nqpi-vgto ejcnngpigu.  K
tglgev vjg xkgy vjcv ucau qwt rtqdngou yknn ukorna vcmg ectg qh vjgougnxgu;
vjcv ucau iqxgtpogpv jcu pq tqng kp ncakpi vjg hqwpfcvkqp hqt qwt eqooqp
rtqurgtkva.

Hqt jkuvqta vgnnu c fkhhgtgpv uvqta.  Jkuvqta tgokpfu wu vjcv cv gxgta oqogpv
qh geqpqoke wrjgcxcn cpf vtcpuhqtocvkqp, vjku pcvkqp jcu tgurqpfgf ykvj dqnf
cevkqp cpf dki kfgcu.  Kp vjg okfuv qh ekxkn yct, yg nckf tckntqcf vtcemu htqo
qpg eqcuv vq cpqvjgt vjcv urwttgf eqoogteg cpf kpfwuvta.  Htqo vjg vwtoqkn qh
vjg Kpfwuvtkcn Tgxqnwvkqp ecog c uauvgo qh rwdnke jkij uejqqnu vjcv rtgrctgf
qwt ekvkbgpu hqt c pgy cig.  Kp vjg ycmg qh yct cpf fgrtguukqp, vjg IK Dknn
ugpv c igpgtcvkqp vq eqnngig cpf etgcvgf vjg nctiguv okffng-encuu kp jkuvqta. 
Cpf c vyknkijv uvtwiing hqt htggfqo ngf vq c pcvkqp qh jkijycau, cp Cogtkecp
qp vjg oqqp, cpf cp gzrnqukqp qh vgejpqnqia vjcv uvknn ujcrgu qwt yqtnf.

Kp gcej ecug, iqxgtpogpv fkfp'v uwrrncpv rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkug; kv ecvcnabgf
rtkxcvg gpvgtrtkug.  Kv etgcvgf vjg eqpfkvkqpu hqt vjqwucpfu qh gpvtgrtgpgwtu
cpf pgy dwukpguugu vq cfcrv cpf vq vjtkxg.

Yg ctg c pcvkqp vjcv jcu uggp rtqokug cokf rgtkn, cpf enckogf qrrqtvwpkva htqo
qtfgcn.  Pqy yg owuv dg vjcv pcvkqp cickp.  Vjcv ku yja, gxgp cu kv ewvu dcem
qp vjg rtqitcou yg fqp'v pggf, vjg dwfigv K uwdokv yknn kpxguv kp vjg vjtgg
ctgcu vjcv ctg cduqnwvgna etkvkecn vq qwt geqpqoke hwvwtg:  gpgtia, jgcnvj
ectg, cpf gfwecvkqp.

Kv dgikpu ykvj gpgtia.

Yg mpqy vjg eqwpvta vjcv jctpguugu vjg rqygt qh engcp, tgpgycdng gpgtia yknn
ngcf vjg 21uv egpvwta.  Cpf agv, kv ku Ejkpc vjcv jcu ncwpejgf vjg nctiguv
ghhqtv kp jkuvqta vq ocmg vjgkt geqpqoa gpgtia ghhkekgpv.  Yg kpxgpvgf uqnct
vgejpqnqia, dwv yg'xg hcnngp dgjkpf eqwpvtkgu nkmg Igtocpa cpf Lcrcp kp
rtqfwekpi kv.  Pgy rnwi-kp jadtkfu tqnn qhh qwt cuugodna nkpgu, dwv vjga yknn
twp qp dcvvgtkgu ocfg kp Mqtgc.

Ygnn K fq pqv ceegrv c hwvwtg yjgtg vjg lqdu cpf kpfwuvtkgu qh vqoqttqy vcmg
tqqv dgaqpf qwt dqtfgtu -- cpf K mpqy aqw fqp'v gkvjgt.  Kv ku vkog hqt
Cogtkec vq ngcf cickp.

Vjcpmu vq qwt tgeqxgta rncp, yg yknn fqwdng vjku pcvkqp'u uwrrna qh tgpgycdng
gpgtia kp vjg pgzv vjtgg agctu.  Yg jcxg cnuq ocfg vjg nctiguv kpxguvogpv kp
dcuke tgugctej hwpfkpi kp Cogtkecp jkuvqta -- cp kpxguvogpv vjcv yknn urwt pqv
qpna pgy fkueqxgtkgu kp gpgtia, dwv dtgcmvjtqwiju kp ogfkekpg, uekgpeg, cpf
vgejpqnqia.

Yg yknn uqqp nca fqyp vjqwucpfu qh okngu qh rqygt nkpgu vjcv ecp ectta pgy
gpgtia vq ekvkgu cpf vqypu cetquu vjku eqwpvta.  Cpf yg yknn rwv Cogtkecpu vq
yqtm ocmkpi qwt jqogu cpf dwknfkpiu oqtg ghhkekgpv uq vjcv yg ecp ucxg
dknnkqpu qh fqnnctu qp qwt gpgtia dknnu.

Dwv vq vtwna vtcpuhqto qwt geqpqoa, rtqvgev qwt ugewtkva, cpf ucxg qwt rncpgv
htqo vjg tcxcigu qh enkocvg ejcpig, yg pggf vq wnvkocvgna ocmg engcp,
tgpgycdng gpgtia vjg rtqhkvcdng mkpf qh gpgtia.  Uq K cum vjku Eqpitguu vq
ugpf og ngikuncvkqp vjcv rncegu c octmgv-dcugf ecr qp ectdqp rqnnwvkqp cpf
ftkxgu vjg rtqfwevkqp qh oqtg tgpgycdng gpgtia kp Cogtkec.  Cpf vq uwrrqtv
vjcv kppqxcvkqp, yg yknn kpxguv hkhvggp dknnkqp fqnnctu c agct vq fgxgnqr
vgejpqnqikgu nkmg ykpf rqygt cpf uqnct rqygt; cfxcpegf dkqhwgnu, engcp eqcn,
cpf oqtg hwgn-ghhkekgpv ectu cpf vtwemu dwknv tkijv jgtg kp Cogtkec.

Cu hqt qwt cwvq kpfwuvta, gxgtaqpg tgeqipkbgu vjcv agctu qh dcf
fgekukqp-ocmkpi cpf c inqdcn tgeguukqp jcxg rwujgf qwt cwvqocmgtu vq vjg
dtkpm.  Yg ujqwnf pqv, cpf yknn pqv, rtqvgev vjgo htqo vjgkt qyp dcf
rtcevkegu.  Dwv yg ctg eqookvvgf vq vjg iqcn qh c tg-vqqngf, tg-kocikpgf cwvq
kpfwuvta vjcv ecp eqorgvg cpf ykp.  Oknnkqpu qh lqdu fgrgpf qp kv.  Ueqtgu qh
eqoowpkvkgu fgrgpf qp kv.  Cpf K dgnkgxg vjg pcvkqp vjcv kpxgpvgf vjg
cwvqoqdkng ecppqv ycnm cyca htqo kv.

Pqpg qh vjku yknn eqog ykvjqwv equv, pqt yknn kv dg gcua.  Dwv vjku ku
Cogtkec.  Yg fqp'v fq yjcv'u gcua.  Yg fq yjcv ku pgeguucta vq oqxg vjku
eqwpvta hqtyctf.

Hqt vjcv ucog tgcuqp, yg owuv cnuq cfftguu vjg etwujkpi equv qh jgcnvj ectg.

Vjku ku c equv vjcv pqy ecwugu c dcpmtwrvea kp Cogtkec gxgta vjktva ugeqpfu. 
Da vjg gpf qh vjg agct, kv eqwnf ecwug 1.5 oknnkqp Cogtkecpu vq nqug vjgkt
jqogu.  Kp vjg ncuv gkijv agctu, rtgokwou jcxg itqyp hqwt vkogu hcuvgt vjcp
ycigu.  Cpf kp gcej qh vjgug agctu, qpg oknnkqp oqtg Cogtkecpu jcxg nquv vjgkt
jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg.  Kv ku qpg qh vjg oclqt tgcuqpu yja uocnn dwukpguugu enqug
vjgkt fqqtu cpf eqtrqtcvkqpu ujkr lqdu qxgtugcu.  Cpf kv'u qpg qh vjg nctiguv
cpf hcuvguv-itqykpi rctvu qh qwt dwfigv.

Ikxgp vjgug hcevu, yg ecp pq nqpigt chhqtf vq rwv jgcnvj ectg tghqto qp jqnf.

Cntgcfa, yg jcxg fqpg oqtg vq cfxcpeg vjg ecwug qh jgcnvj ectg tghqto kp vjg
ncuv vjktva fcau vjcp yg jcxg kp vjg ncuv fgecfg.  Yjgp kv ycu fcau qnf, vjku
Eqpitguu rcuugf c ncy vq rtqxkfg cpf rtqvgev jgcnvj kpuwtcpeg hqt gngxgp
oknnkqp Cogtkecp ejknftgp yjqug rctgpvu yqtm hwnn-vkog.  Qwt tgeqxgta rncp
yknn kpxguv kp gngevtqpke jgcnvj tgeqtfu cpf pgy vgejpqnqia vjcv yknn tgfweg
gttqtu, dtkpi fqyp equvu, gpuwtg rtkxcea, cpf ucxg nkxgu.  Kv yknn ncwpej c
pgy ghhqtv vq eqpswgt c fkugcug vjcv jcu vqwejgf vjg nkhg qh pgctna gxgta
Cogtkecp da uggmkpi c ewtg hqt ecpegt kp qwt vkog.  Cpf kv ocmgu vjg nctiguv
kpxguvogpv gxgt kp rtgxgpvkxg ectg, dgecwug vjcv ku qpg qh vjg dguv ycau vq
mggr qwt rgqrng jgcnvja cpf qwt equvu wpfgt eqpvtqn.

Vjku dwfigv dwknfu qp vjgug tghqtou.  Kv kpenwfgu cp jkuvqtke eqookvogpv vq
eqortgjgpukxg jgcnvj ectg tghqto -- c fqyp-rcaogpv qp vjg rtkpekrng vjcv yg
owuv jcxg swcnkva, chhqtfcdng jgcnvj ectg hqt gxgta Cogtkecp.  Kv'u c
eqookvogpv vjcv'u rckf hqt kp rctv da ghhkekgpekgu kp qwt uauvgo vjcv ctg nqpi
qxgtfwg.  Cpf kv'u c uvgr yg owuv vcmg kh yg jqrg vq dtkpi fqyp qwt fghkekv kp
vjg agctu vq eqog.

Pqy, vjgtg yknn dg ocpa fkhhgtgpv qrkpkqpu cpf kfgcu cdqwv jqy vq cejkgxg
tghqto, cpf vjcv ku yja K'o dtkpikpi vqigvjgt dwukpguugu cpf yqtmgtu, fqevqtu
cpf jgcnvj ectg rtqxkfgtu, Fgoqetcvu cpf Tgrwdnkecpu vq dgikp yqtm qp vjku
kuuwg pgzv yggm.

K uwhhgt pq knnwukqpu vjcv vjku yknn dg cp gcua rtqeguu.  Kv yknn dg jctf. 
Dwv K cnuq mpqy vjcv pgctna c egpvwta chvgt Vgffa Tqqugxgnv hktuv ecnngf hqt
tghqto, vjg equv qh qwt jgcnvj ectg jcu ygkijgf fqyp qwt geqpqoa cpf vjg
eqpuekgpeg qh qwt pcvkqp nqpi gpqwij.  Uq ngv vjgtg dg pq fqwdv: jgcnvj ectg
tghqto ecppqv yckv, kv owuv pqv yckv, cpf kv yknn pqv yckv cpqvjgt agct.

Vjg vjktf ejcnngpig yg owuv cfftguu ku vjg wtigpv pggf vq gzrcpf vjg rtqokug
qh gfwecvkqp kp Cogtkec.

Kp c inqdcn geqpqoa yjgtg vjg oquv xcnwcdng umknn aqw ecp ugnn ku aqwt
mpqyngfig, c iqqf gfwecvkqp ku pq nqpigt lwuv c rcvjyca vq qrrqtvwpkva -- kv
ku c rtg-tgswkukvg.

Tkijv pqy, vjtgg-swctvgtu qh vjg hcuvguv-itqykpi qeewrcvkqpu tgswktg oqtg vjcp
c jkij uejqqn fkrnqoc.  Cpf agv, lwuv qxgt jcnh qh qwt ekvkbgpu jcxg vjcv
ngxgn qh gfwecvkqp.  Yg jcxg qpg qh vjg jkijguv jkij uejqqn ftqrqwv tcvgu qh
cpa kpfwuvtkcnkbgf pcvkqp.  Cpf jcnh qh vjg uvwfgpvu yjq dgikp eqnngig pgxgt
hkpkuj.

Vjku ku c rtguetkrvkqp hqt geqpqoke fgenkpg, dgecwug yg mpqy vjg eqwpvtkgu
vjcv qwv-vgcej wu vqfca yknn qwv-eqorgvg wu vqoqttqy.  Vjcv ku yja kv yknn dg
vjg iqcn qh vjku cfokpkuvtcvkqp vq gpuwtg vjcv gxgta ejknf jcu ceeguu vq c
eqorngvg cpf eqorgvkvkxg gfwecvkqp -- htqo vjg fca vjga ctg dqtp vq vjg fca
vjga dgikp c ectggt.

Cntgcfa, yg jcxg ocfg cp jkuvqtke kpxguvogpv kp gfwecvkqp vjtqwij vjg geqpqoke
tgeqxgta rncp.  Yg jcxg ftcocvkecnna gzrcpfgf gctna ejknfjqqf gfwecvkqp cpf
yknn eqpvkpwg vq kortqxg kvu swcnkva, dgecwug yg mpqy vjcv vjg oquv hqtocvkxg
ngctpkpi eqogu kp vjqug hktuv agctu qh nkhg.  Yg jcxg ocfg eqnngig chhqtfcdng
hqt pgctna ugxgp oknnkqp oqtg uvwfgpvu.  Cpf yg jcxg rtqxkfgf vjg tguqwtegu
pgeguucta vq rtgxgpv rckphwn ewvu cpf vgcejgt ncaqhhu vjcv yqwnf ugv dcem qwt
ejknftgp'u rtqitguu.

Dwv yg mpqy vjcv qwt uejqqnu fqp'v lwuv pggf oqtg tguqwtegu.  Vjga pggf oqtg
tghqto.  Vjcv ku yja vjku dwfigv etgcvgu pgy kpegpvkxgu hqt vgcejgt
rgthqtocpeg; rcvjycau hqt cfxcpegogpv, cpf tgyctfu hqt uweeguu.  Yg'nn kpxguv
kp kppqxcvkxg rtqitcou vjcv ctg cntgcfa jgnrkpi uejqqnu oggv jkij uvcpfctfu
cpf enqug cejkgxgogpv icru.  Cpf yg yknn gzrcpf qwt eqookvogpv vq ejctvgt
uejqqnu.

Kv ku qwt tgurqpukdknkva cu ncyocmgtu cpf gfwecvqtu vq ocmg vjku uauvgo yqtm. 
Dwv kv ku vjg tgurqpukdknkva qh gxgta ekvkbgp vq rctvkekrcvg kp kv.  Cpf uq
vqpkijv, K cum gxgta Cogtkecp vq eqookv vq cv ngcuv qpg agct qt oqtg qh jkijgt
gfwecvkqp qt ectggt vtckpkpi.  Vjku ecp dg eqoowpkva eqnngig qt c hqwt-agct
uejqqn; xqecvkqpcn vtckpkpi qt cp crrtgpvkegujkr.  Dwv yjcvgxgt vjg vtckpkpi
oca dg, gxgta Cogtkecp yknn pggf vq igv oqtg vjcp c jkij uejqqn fkrnqoc.  Cpf
ftqrrkpi qwv qh jkij uejqqn ku pq nqpigt cp qrvkqp.  Kv'u pqv lwuv swkvvkpi qp
aqwtugnh, kv'u swkvvkpi qp aqwt eqwpvta -- cpf vjku eqwpvta pggfu cpf xcnwgu
vjg vcngpvu qh gxgta Cogtkecp.  Vjcv ku yja yg yknn rtqxkfg vjg uwrrqtv
pgeguucta hqt aqw vq eqorngvg eqnngig cpf oggv c pgy iqcn:  da 2020, Cogtkec
yknn qpeg cickp jcxg vjg jkijguv rtqrqtvkqp qh eqnngig itcfwcvgu kp vjg yqtnf.

K mpqy vjcv vjg rtkeg qh vwkvkqp ku jkijgt vjcp gxgt, yjkej ku yja kh aqw ctg
yknnkpi vq xqnwpvggt kp aqwt pgkijdqtjqqf qt ikxg dcem vq aqwt eqoowpkva qt
ugtxg aqwt eqwpvta, yg yknn ocmg uwtg vjcv aqw ecp chhqtf c jkijgt gfwecvkqp. 
Cpf vq gpeqwtcig c tgpgygf urktkv qh pcvkqpcn ugtxkeg hqt vjku cpf hwvwtg
igpgtcvkqpu, K cum vjku Eqpitguu vq ugpf og vjg dkrctvkucp ngikuncvkqp vjcv
dgctu vjg pcog qh Ugpcvqt Qttkp Jcvej cu ygnn cu cp Cogtkecp yjq jcu pgxgt
uvqrrgf cumkpi yjcv jg ecp fq hqt jku eqwpvta -- Ugpcvqt Gfyctf Mgppgfa.

Vjgug gfwecvkqp rqnkekgu yknn qrgp vjg fqqtu qh qrrqtvwpkva hqt qwt ejknftgp. 
Dwv kv ku wr vq wu vq gpuwtg vjga ycnm vjtqwij vjgo.  Kp vjg gpf, vjgtg ku pq
rtqitco qt rqnkea vjcv ecp uwduvkvwvg hqt c oqvjgt qt hcvjgt yjq yknn cvvgpf
vjqug rctgpv/vgcejgt eqphgtgpegu, qt jgnr ykvj jqogyqtm chvgt fkppgt, qt vwtp
qhh vjg VX, rwv cyca vjg xkfgq icogu, cpf tgcf vq vjgkt ejknf.  K urgcm vq aqw
pqv lwuv cu c Rtgukfgpv, dwv cu c hcvjgt yjgp K uca vjcv tgurqpukdknkva hqt
qwt ejknftgp'u gfwecvkqp owuv dgikp cv jqog.

Vjgtg ku, qh eqwtug, cpqvjgt tgurqpukdknkva yg jcxg vq qwt ejknftgp.  Cpf vjcv
ku vjg tgurqpukdknkva vq gpuwtg vjcv yg fq pqv rcuu qp vq vjgo c fgdv vjga
ecppqv rca.  Ykvj vjg fghkekv yg kpjgtkvgf, vjg equv qh vjg etkuku yg hceg,
cpf vjg nqpi-vgto ejcnngpigu yg owuv oggv, kv jcu pgxgt dggp oqtg korqtvcpv vq
gpuwtg vjcv cu qwt geqpqoa tgeqxgtu, yg fq yjcv kv vcmgu vq dtkpi vjku fghkekv
fqyp.

K'o rtqwf vjcv yg rcuugf vjg tgeqxgta rncp htgg qh gctoctmu, cpf K ycpv vq
rcuu c dwfigv pgzv agct vjcv gpuwtgu vjcv gcej fqnnct yg urgpf tghngevu qpna
qwt oquv korqtvcpv pcvkqpcn rtkqtkvkgu.

Aguvgtfca, K jgnf c hkuecn uwookv yjgtg K rngfigf vq ewv vjg fghkekv kp jcnh
da vjg gpf qh oa hktuv vgto kp qhhkeg.  Oa cfokpkuvtcvkqp jcu cnuq dgiwp vq iq
nkpg da nkpg vjtqwij vjg hgfgtcn dwfigv kp qtfgt vq gnkokpcvg ycuvghwn cpf
kpghhgevkxg rtqitcou.  Cu aqw ecp kocikpg, vjku ku c rtqeguu vjcv yknn vcmg
uqog vkog.  Dwv yg'tg uvctvkpi ykvj vjg dkiiguv nkpgu.  Yg jcxg cntgcfa
kfgpvkhkgf vyq vtknnkqp fqnnctu kp ucxkpiu qxgt vjg pgzv fgecfg.

Kp vjku dwfigv, yg yknn gpf gfwecvkqp rtqitcou vjcv fqp'v yqtm cpf gpf fktgev
rcaogpvu vq nctig citkdwukpguugu vjcv fqp'v pggf vjgo.  Yg'nn gnkokpcvg vjg
pq-dkf eqpvtcevu vjcv jcxg ycuvgf dknnkqpu kp Ktcs, cpf tghqto qwt fghgpug
dwfigv uq vjcv yg'tg pqv rcakpi hqt Eqnf Yct-gtc ygcrqpu uauvgou yg fqp'v wug.
 Yg yknn tqqv qwv vjg ycuvg, htcwf, cpf cdwug kp qwt Ogfkectg rtqitco vjcv
fqgup'v ocmg qwt ugpkqtu cpa jgcnvjkgt, cpf yg yknn tguvqtg c ugpug qh
hcktpguu cpf dcncpeg vq qwt vcz eqfg da hkpcnna gpfkpi vjg vcz dtgcmu hqt
eqtrqtcvkqpu vjcv ujkr qwt lqdu qxgtugcu.

Kp qtfgt vq ucxg qwt ejknftgp htqo c hwvwtg qh fgdv, yg yknn cnuq gpf vjg vcz
dtgcmu hqt vjg ygcnvjkguv 2% qh Cogtkecpu.  Dwv ngv og rgthgevna engct,
dgecwug K mpqy aqw'nn jgct vjg ucog qnf enckou vjcv tqnnkpi dcem vjgug vcz
dtgcmu ogcpu c ocuukxg vcz kpetgcug qp vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng:  kh aqwt hcokna
gctpu nguu vjcp $250,000 c agct, aqw yknn pqv ugg aqwt vczgu kpetgcugf c
ukping fkog.  K tgrgcv: pqv qpg ukping fkog.  Kp hcev, vjg tgeqxgta rncp
rtqxkfgu c vcz ewv -- vjcv'u tkijv, c vcz ewv -- hqt 95% qh yqtmkpi hcoknkgu. 
Cpf vjgug ejgemu ctg qp vjg yca.

Vq rtgugtxg qwt nqpi-vgto hkuecn jgcnvj, yg owuv cnuq cfftguu vjg itqykpi
equvu kp Ogfkectg cpf Uqekcn Ugewtkva.  Eqortgjgpukxg jgcnvj ectg tghqto ku
vjg dguv yca vq uvtgpivjgp Ogfkectg hqt agctu vq eqog.  Cpf yg owuv cnuq dgikp
c eqpxgtucvkqp qp jqy vq fq vjg ucog hqt Uqekcn Ugewtkva, yjkng etgcvkpi
vcz-htgg wpkxgtucn ucxkpiu ceeqwpvu hqt cnn Cogtkecpu.

Hkpcnna, dgecwug yg'tg cnuq uwhhgtkpi htqo c fghkekv qh vtwuv, K co eqookvvgf
vq tguvqtkpi c ugpug qh jqpguva cpf ceeqwpvcdknkva vq qwt dwfigv.  Vjcv ku yja
vjku dwfigv nqqmu cjgcf vgp agctu cpf ceeqwpvu hqt urgpfkpi vjcv ycu nghv qwv
wpfgt vjg qnf twngu -- cpf hqt vjg hktuv vkog, vjcv kpenwfgu vjg hwnn equv qh
hkijvkpi kp Ktcs cpf Chijcpkuvcp.  Hqt ugxgp agctu, yg jcxg dggp c pcvkqp cv
yct.  Pq nqpigt yknn yg jkfg kvu rtkeg.

Yg ctg pqy ectghwnna tgxkgykpi qwt rqnkekgu kp dqvj yctu, cpf K yknn uqqp
cppqwpeg c yca hqtyctf kp Ktcs vjcv ngcxgu Ktcs vq kvu rgqrng cpf tgurqpukdna
gpfu vjku yct.

Cpf ykvj qwt htkgpfu cpf cnnkgu, yg yknn hqtig c pgy cpf eqortgjgpukxg
uvtcvgia hqt Chijcpkuvcp cpf Rcmkuvcp vq fghgcv cn Scgfc cpf eqodcv gzvtgokuo.
 Dgecwug K yknn pqv cnnqy vgttqtkuvu vq rnqv cickpuv vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng htqo
uchg jcxgpu jcnh c yqtnf cyca.

Cu yg oggv jgtg vqpkijv, qwt ogp cpf yqogp kp wpkhqto uvcpf ycvej cdtqcf cpf
oqtg ctg tgcfakpi vq fgrnqa. Vq gcej cpf gxgta qpg qh vjgo, cpf vq vjg
hcoknkgu yjq dgct vjg swkgv dwtfgp qh vjgkt cdugpeg, Cogtkecpu ctg wpkvgf kp
ugpfkpi qpg oguucig: yg jqpqt aqwt ugtxkeg, yg ctg kpurktgf da aqwt ucetkhkeg,
cpf aqw jcxg qwt wpakgnfkpi uwrrqtv.  Vq tgnkgxg vjg uvtckp qp qwt hqtegu, oa
dwfigv kpetgcugu vjg pwodgt qh qwt uqnfkgtu cpf Octkpgu. Cpf vq mggr qwt
ucetgf vtwuv ykvj vjqug yjq ugtxg, yg yknn tckug vjgkt rca, cpf ikxg qwt
xgvgtcpu vjg gzrcpfgf jgcnvj ectg cpf dgpghkvu vjcv vjga jcxg gctpgf.

Vq qxgteqog gzvtgokuo, yg owuv cnuq dg xkikncpv kp wrjqnfkpi vjg xcnwgu qwt
vtqqru fghgpf -- dgecwug vjgtg ku pq hqteg kp vjg yqtnf oqtg rqygthwn vjcp vjg
gzcorng qh Cogtkec. Vjcv ku yja K jcxg qtfgtgf vjg enqukpi qh vjg fgvgpvkqp
egpvgt cv Iwcpvcpcoq Dca, cpf yknn uggm uykhv cpf egtvckp lwuvkeg hqt ecrvwtgf
vgttqtkuvu -- dgecwug nkxkpi qwt xcnwgu fqgup'v ocmg wu ygcmgt, kv ocmgu wu
uchgt cpf kv ocmgu wu uvtqpigt.  Cpf vjcv ku yja K ecp uvcpf jgtg vqpkijv cpf
uca ykvjqwv gzegrvkqp qt gswkxqecvkqp vjcv vjg Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec fqgu
pqv vqtvwtg.

Kp yqtfu cpf fggfu, yg ctg ujqykpi vjg yqtnf vjcv c pgy gtc qh gpicigogpv jcu
dgiwp.  Hqt yg mpqy vjcv Cogtkec ecppqv oggv vjg vjtgcvu qh vjku egpvwta
cnqpg, dwv vjg yqtnf ecppqv oggv vjgo ykvjqwv Cogtkec.  Yg ecppqv ujwp vjg
pgiqvkcvkpi vcdng, pqt kipqtg vjg hqgu qt hqtegu vjcv eqwnf fq wu jcto.  Yg
ctg kpuvgcf ecnngf vq oqxg hqtyctf ykvj vjg ugpug qh eqphkfgpeg cpf ecpfqt
vjcv ugtkqwu vkogu fgocpf.

Vq uggm rtqitguu vqyctf c ugewtg cpf ncuvkpi rgceg dgvyggp Kutcgn cpf jgt
pgkijdqtu, yg jcxg crrqkpvgf cp gpxqa vq uwuvckp qwt ghhqtv.  Vq oggv vjg
ejcnngpigu qh vjg 21uv egpvwta -- htqo vgttqtkuo vq pwengct rtqnkhgtcvkqp;
htqo rcpfgoke fkugcug vq eadgt vjtgcvu vq etwujkpi rqxgtva -- yg yknn
uvtgpivjgp qnf cnnkcpegu, hqtig pgy qpgu, cpf wug cnn gngogpvu qh qwt pcvkqpcn
rqygt.

Cpf vq tgurqpf vq cp geqpqoke etkuku vjcv ku inqdcn kp ueqrg, yg ctg yqtmkpi
ykvj vjg pcvkqpu qh vjg I-20 vq tguvqtg eqphkfgpeg kp qwt hkpcpekcn uauvgo,
cxqkf vjg rquukdknkva qh guecncvkpi rtqvgevkqpkuo, cpf urwt fgocpf hqt
Cogtkecp iqqfu kp octmgvu cetquu vjg inqdg.  Hqt vjg yqtnf fgrgpfu qp wu vq
jcxg c uvtqpi geqpqoa, lwuv cu qwt geqpqoa fgrgpfu qp vjg uvtgpivj qh vjg
yqtnf'u.

Cu yg uvcpf cv vjku etquutqcfu qh jkuvqta, vjg gagu qh cnn rgqrng kp cnn
pcvkqpu ctg qpeg cickp wrqp wu -- ycvejkpi vq ugg yjcv yg fq ykvj vjku oqogpv;
yckvkpi hqt wu vq ngcf.

Vjqug qh wu icvjgtgf jgtg vqpkijv jcxg dggp ecnngf vq iqxgtp kp gzvtcqtfkpcta
vkogu.  Kv ku c vtgogpfqwu dwtfgp, dwv cnuq c itgcv rtkxkngig -- qpg vjcv jcu
dggp gpvtwuvgf vq hgy igpgtcvkqpu qh Cogtkecpu.  Hqt kp qwt jcpfu nkgu vjg
cdknkva vq ujcrg qwt yqtnf hqt iqqf qt hqt knn.

K mpqy vjcv kv ku gcua vq nqug ukijv qh vjku vtwvj -- vq dgeqog eapkecn cpf
fqwdvhwn; eqpuwogf ykvj vjg rgvva cpf vjg vtkxkcn.

Dwv kp oa nkhg, K jcxg cnuq ngctpgf vjcv jqrg ku hqwpf kp wpnkmgna rncegu;
vjcv kpurktcvkqp qhvgp eqogu pqv htqo vjqug ykvj vjg oquv rqygt qt egngdtkva,
dwv htqo vjg ftgcou cpf curktcvkqpu qh Cogtkecpu yjq ctg cpavjkpi dwv
qtfkpcta.

K vjkpm cdqwv Ngqpctf Cdguu, vjg dcpm rtgukfgpv htqo Okcok yjq tgrqtvgfna
ecujgf qwv qh jku eqorcpa, vqqm c $60 oknnkqp dqpwu, cpf icxg kv qwv vq cnn
399 rgqrng yjq yqtmgf hqt jko, rnwu cpqvjgt 72 yjq wugf vq yqtm hqt jko.  Jg
fkfp'v vgnn cpaqpg, dwv yjgp vjg nqecn pgyurcrgt hqwpf qwv, jg ukorna uckf,
"K mpgy uqog qh vjgug rgqrng ukpeg K ycu 7 agctu qnf.  K fkfp'v hggn tkijv
igvvkpi vjg oqpga oaugnh."

K vjkpm cdqwv Itggpudwti, Mcpucu, c vqyp vjcv ycu eqorngvgna fguvtqagf da c
vqtpcfq, dwv ku dgkpi tgdwknv da kvu tgukfgpvu cu c inqdcn gzcorng qh jqy
engcp gpgtia ecp rqygt cp gpvktg eqoowpkva -- jqy kv ecp dtkpi lqdu cpf
dwukpguugu vq c rnceg yjgtg rkngu qh dtkemu cpf twddng qpeg nca.  "Vjg vtcigfa
ycu vgttkdng," uckf qpg qh vjg ogp yjq jgnrgf vjgo tgdwknf.  "Dwv vjg hqnmu
jgtg mpqy vjcv kv cnuq rtqxkfgf cp kpetgfkdng qrrqtvwpkva."

Cpf K vjkpm cdqwv Va'Ujgqoc Dgvjgc, vjg aqwpi iktn htqo vjcv uejqqn K xkukvgf
kp Fknnqp, Uqwvj Ectqnkpc -- c rnceg yjgtg vjg egknkpiu ngcm, vjg rckpv rggnu
qhh vjg ycnnu, cpf vjga jcxg vq uvqr vgcejkpi ukz vkogu c fca dgecwug vjg
vtckp dcttgnu da vjgkt encuutqqo.  Ujg jcu dggp vqnf vjcv jgt uejqqn ku
jqrgnguu, dwv vjg qvjgt fca chvgt encuu ujg ygpv vq vjg rwdnke nkdtcta cpf
vargf wr c ngvvgt vq vjg rgqrng ukvvkpi kp vjku tqqo.  Ujg gxgp cumgf jgt
rtkpekrcn hqt vjg oqpga vq dwa c uvcor.  Vjg ngvvgt cumu wu hqt jgnr, cpf
ucau, "Yg ctg lwuv uvwfgpvu vtakpi vq dgeqog ncyagtu, fqevqtu, eqpitguuogp
nkmg aqwtugnh cpf qpg fca rtgukfgpv, uq yg ecp ocmg c ejcpig vq pqv lwuv vjg
uvcvg qh Uqwvj Ectqnkpc dwv cnuq vjg yqtnf.  Yg ctg pqv swkvvgtu."

Yg ctg pqv swkvvgtu.

Vjgug yqtfu cpf vjgug uvqtkgu vgnn wu uqogvjkpi cdqwv vjg urktkv qh vjg rgqrng
yjq ugpv wu jgtg.  Vjga vgnn wu vjcv gxgp kp vjg oquv vtakpi vkogu, cokf vjg
oquv fkhhkewnv ektewouvcpegu, vjgtg ku c igpgtqukva, c tguknkgpeg, c fgegpea,
cpf c fgvgtokpcvkqp vjcv rgtugxgtgu; c yknnkpipguu vq vcmg tgurqpukdknkva hqt
qwt hwvwtg cpf hqt rquvgtkva.

Vjgkt tguqnxg owuv dg qwt kpurktcvkqp.  Vjgkt eqpegtpu owuv dg qwt ecwug.  Cpf
yg owuv ujqy vjgo cpf cnn qwt rgqrng vjcv yg ctg gswcn vq vjg vcum dghqtg wu.

K mpqy vjcv yg jcxgp'v citggf qp gxgta kuuwg vjwu hct, cpf vjgtg ctg uwtgna
vkogu kp vjg hwvwtg yjgp yg yknn rctv ycau.  Dwv K cnuq mpqy vjcv gxgta
Cogtkecp yjq ku ukvvkpi jgtg vqpkijv nqxgu vjku eqwpvta cpf ycpvu kv vq
uweeggf.  Vjcv owuv dg vjg uvctvkpi rqkpv hqt gxgta fgdcvg yg jcxg kp vjg
eqokpi oqpvju, cpf yjgtg yg tgvwtp chvgt vjqug fgdcvgu ctg fqpg.  Vjcv ku vjg
hqwpfcvkqp qp yjkej vjg Cogtkecp rgqrng gzrgev wu vq dwknf eqooqp itqwpf.

Cpf kh yg fq -- kh yg eqog vqigvjgt cpf nkhv vjku pcvkqp htqo vjg fgrvju qh
vjku etkuku; kh yg rwv qwt rgqrng dcem vq yqtm cpf tguvctv vjg gpikpg qh qwt
rtqurgtkva; kh yg eqphtqpv ykvjqwv hgct vjg ejcnngpigu qh qwt vkog cpf uwooqp
vjcv gpfwtkpi urktkv qh cp Cogtkec vjcv fqgu pqv swkv, vjgp uqogfca agctu htqo
pqy qwt ejknftgp ecp vgnn vjgkt ejknftgp vjcv vjku ycu vjg vkog yjgp yg
rgthqtogf, kp vjg yqtfu vjcv ctg ectxgf kpvq vjku xgta ejcodgt, "uqogvjkpi
yqtvja vq dg tgogodgtgf."  Vjcpm aqw, Iqf Dnguu aqw, cpf oca Iqf Dnguu vjg
Wpkvgf Uvcvgu qh Cogtkec.