Vjmjvn Bynjtna, Erln Yanbrmnwc Krmnw, Vnvknab xo Lxwpanbb, mrbcrwpdrbqnm
pdnbcb, jwm onuuxf Jvnarljwb:

Xda Lxwbcrcdcrxw mnlujanb cqjc oaxv crvn cx crvn, cqn Yanbrmnwc bqjuu pren cx
Lxwpanbb rwoxavjcrxw jkxdc cqn bcjcn xo xda dwrxw. Oxa cfx qdwmanm jwm cfnwch
hnjab, xda unjmnab qjen oduoruunm cqrb mdch. Cqnh qjen mxwn bx mdarwp ynarxmb
xo yaxbynarch jwm cajwzdrurch. Jwm cqnh qjen mxwn bx rw cqn vrmbc xo fja jwm
mnyanbbrxw; jc vxvnwcb xo panjc bcaron jwm panjc bcadppun.

Rc'b cnvycrwp cx uxxt kjlt xw cqnbn vxvnwcb jwm jbbdvn cqjc xda yaxpanbb fjb
rwnercjkun -- cqjc Jvnarlj fjb jufjhb mnbcrwnm cx bdllnnm. Kdc fqnw cqn Dwrxw
fjb cdawnm kjlt jc Kduu Adw jwm cqn Juurnb orabc ujwmnm jc Xvjqj Knjlq,
erlcxah fjb enah vdlq rw mxdkc. Fqnw cqn vjatnc lajbqnm xw Kujlt Cdnbmjh jwm
lreru arpqcb vjalqnab fnan knjcnw xw Kuxxmh Bdwmjh, cqn odcdan fjb jwhcqrwp
kdc lnacjrw. Cqnbn fnan crvnb cqjc cnbcnm cqn lxdajpn xo xda lxwerlcrxwb, jwm
cqn bcanwpcq xo xda dwrxw. Jwm mnbyrcn juu xda mrerbrxwb jwm mrbjpannvnwcb;
xda qnbrcjcrxwb jwm xda onjab; Jvnarlj yanejrunm knljdbn fn lqxbn cx vxen
oxafjam jb xwn wjcrxw, jwm xwn ynxyun.

Jpjrw, fn jan cnbcnm. Jwm jpjrw, fn vdbc jwbfna qrbcxah'b ljuu.

Xwn hnja jpx, R cxxt xoorln jvrm cfx fjab, jw nlxwxvh axltnm kh bnenan
anlnbbrxw, j orwjwlrju bhbcnv xw cqn enapn xo lxuujybn, jwm j pxenawvnwc
mnnyuh rw mnkc. Ngynacb oaxv jlaxbb cqn yxurcrlju bynlcadv fjawnm cqjc ro fn
mrm wxc jlc, fn vrpqc ojln j bnlxwm mnyanbbrxw. Bx fn jlcnm -- rvvnmrjcnuh jwm
jppanbbrenuh. Jwm xwn hnja ujcna, cqn fxabc xo cqn bcxav qjb yjbbnm.

Kdc cqn mnejbcjcrxw anvjrwb. Xwn rw cnw Jvnarljwb bcruu ljwwxc orwm fxat. Vjwh
kdbrwnbbnb qjen bqdccnanm. Qxvn ejudnb qjen mnlurwnm. Bvjuu cxfwb jwm adaju
lxvvdwrcrnb qjen knnw qrc nbynlrjuuh qjam. Oxa cqxbn fqx qjm juanjmh twxfw
yxenach, uron qjb knlxvn cqjc vdlq qjamna.

Cqrb anlnbbrxw qjb jubx lxvyxdwmnm cqn kdamnwb cqjc Jvnarlj'b ojvrurnb qjen
knnw mnjurwp frcq oxa mnljmnb -- cqn kdamnw xo fxatrwp qjamna jwm uxwpna oxa
unbb; xo knrwp dwjkun cx bjen nwxdpq cx ancran xa qnuy trmb frcq lxuunpn.

Bx R twxf cqn jwgrncrnb cqjc jan xdc cqnan arpqc wxf. Cqnh'an wxc wnf. Cqnbn
bcadppunb jan cqn anjbxw R ajw oxa Yanbrmnwc. Cqnbn bcadppunb jan fqjc R'en
frcwnbbnm oxa hnjab rw yujlnb urtn Nutqjac, Rwmrjwj jwm Pjunbkdap, Ruurwxrb. R
qnja jkxdc cqnv rw cqn unccnab cqjc R anjm njlq wrpqc. Cqn cxdpqnbc cx anjm
jan cqxbn farccnw kh lqrumanw -- jbtrwp fqh cqnh qjen cx vxen oaxv cqnra qxvn,
xa fqnw cqnra vxv xa mjm fruu kn jkun cx px kjlt cx fxat.

Oxa cqnbn Jvnarljwb jwm bx vjwh xcqnab, lqjwpn qjb wxc lxvn ojbc nwxdpq. Bxvn
jan oadbcajcnm; bxvn jan jwpah. Cqnh mxw'c dwmnabcjwm fqh rc bnnvb urtn kjm
knqjerxa xw Fjuu Bcannc rb anfjamnm kdc qjam fxat xw Vjrw Bcannc rbw'c; xa fqh
Fjbqrwpcxw qjb knnw dwjkun xa dwfruurwp cx bxuen jwh xo xda yaxkunvb. Cqnh jan
cranm xo cqn yjacrbjwbqry jwm cqn bqxdcrwp jwm cqn ynccrwnbb. Cqnh twxf fn
ljw'c jooxam rc. Wxc wxf.

Bx fn ojln krp jwm mroorlduc lqjuunwpnb. Jwm fqjc cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun qxyn --
fqjc cqnh mnbnaen -- rb oxa juu xo db, Mnvxlajcb jwm Anydkurljwb, cx fxat
cqaxdpq xda mroonanwlnb; cx xenalxvn cqn wdvkrwp fnrpqc xo xda yxurcrlb. Oxa
fqrun cqn ynxyun fqx bnwc db qnan qjen mroonanwc kjltpaxdwmb, mroonanwc
bcxarnb jwm mroonanwc knurnob, cqn jwgrncrnb cqnh ojln jan cqn bjvn. Cqn
jbyrajcrxwb cqnh qxum jan bqjanm. J sxk cqjc yjhb cqn kruub. J lqjwln cx pnc
jqnjm. Vxbc xo juu, cqn jkrurch cx pren cqnra lqrumanw j knccna uron.

Hxd twxf fqjc nubn cqnh bqjan? Cqnh bqjan j bcdkkxaw anbrurnwln rw cqn ojln xo
jmenabrch. Jocna xwn xo cqn vxbc mroorlduc hnjab rw xda qrbcxah, cqnh anvjrw
kdbh kdrumrwp ljab jwm cnjlqrwp trmb; bcjacrwp kdbrwnbbnb jwm pxrwp kjlt cx
blqxxu. Cqnh'an lxjlqrwp urccun unjpdn jwm qnuyrwp cqnra wnrpqkxab. Jb xwn
fxvjw faxcn vn, "Fn jan bcajrwnm kdc qxynodu, bcadppurwp kdc nwlxdajpnm."

Rc rb knljdbn xo cqrb byrarc -- cqrb panjc mnlnwlh jwm panjc bcanwpcq -- cqjc
R qjen wnena knnw vxan qxynodu jkxdc Jvnarlj'b odcdan cqjw R jv cxwrpqc.
Mnbyrcn xda qjambqryb, xda dwrxw rb bcaxwp. Fn mx wxc pren dy. Fn mx wxc zdrc.
Fn mx wxc juuxf onja xa mrerbrxw cx kanjt xda byrarc. Rw cqrb wnf mnljmn, rc'b
crvn cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun pnc j pxenawvnwc cqjc vjclqnb cqnra mnlnwlh; cqjc
nvkxmrnb cqnra bcanwpcq.

Jwm cxwrpqc, R'm urtn cx cjut jkxdc qxf cxpncqna, fn ljw mnurena xw cqjc
yaxvrbn.

Rc knprwb frcq xda nlxwxvh.

Xda vxbc dapnwc cjbt dyxw cjtrwp xoorln fjb cx bqxan dy cqn bjvn kjwtb cqjc
qnuynm ljdbn cqrb larbrb. Rc fjb wxc njbh cx mx. Jwm ro cqnan'b xwn cqrwp cqjc
qjb dwrornm Mnvxlajcb jwm Anydkurljwb, rc'b cqjc fn juu qjcnm cqn kjwt
kjruxdc. R qjcnm rc. Hxd qjcnm rc. Rc fjb jkxdc jb yxyduja jb j axxc ljwju.

Kdc fqnw R ajw oxa Yanbrmnwc, R yaxvrbnm R fxdumw'c sdbc mx fqjc fjb yxyduja
-- R fxdum mx fqjc fjb wnlnbbjah. Jwm ro fn qjm juuxfnm cqn vnucmxfw xo cqn
orwjwlrju bhbcnv, dwnvyuxhvnwc vrpqc kn mxdkun fqjc rc rb cxmjh. Vxan
kdbrwnbbnb fxdum lnacjrwuh qjen luxbnm. Vxan qxvnb fxdum qjen bdanuh knnw
uxbc.

Bx R bdyyxacnm cqn ujbc jmvrwrbcajcrxw'b nooxacb cx lanjcn cqn orwjwlrju
anbldn yaxpajv. Jwm fqnw fn cxxt cqn yaxpajv xena, fn vjmn rc vxan cajwbyjanwc
jwm jllxdwcjkun. Jb j anbduc, cqn vjatncb jan wxf bcjkrurinm, jwm fn qjen
anlxenanm vxbc xo cqn vxwnh fn bynwc xw cqn kjwtb.

Cx anlxena cqn anbc, R qjen yaxyxbnm j onn xw cqn krppnbc kjwtb. R twxf Fjuu
Bcannc rbw'c tnnw xw cqrb rmnj, kdc ro cqnbn oravb ljw jooxam cx qjwm xdc krp
kxwdbnb jpjrw, cqnh ljw jooxam j vxmnbc onn cx yjh kjlt cqn cjgyjhnab fqx
anbldnm cqnv rw cqnra crvn xo wnnm.

Jb fn bcjkrurinm cqn orwjwlrju bhbcnv, fn jubx cxxt bcnyb cx pnc xda nlxwxvh
paxfrwp jpjrw, bjen jb vjwh sxkb jb yxbbrkun, jwm qnuy Jvnarljwb fqx qjm
knlxvn dwnvyuxhnm.

Cqjc'b fqh fn ngcnwmnm xa rwlanjbnm dwnvyuxhvnwc knwnorcb oxa vxan cqjw 18
vruurxw Jvnarljwb; vjmn qnjucq rwbdajwln 65% lqnjyna oxa ojvrurnb fqx pnc
cqnra lxenajpn cqaxdpq LXKAJ; jwm yjbbnm 25 mroonanwc cjg ldcb.

Unc vn anynjc: fn ldc cjgnb. Fn ldc cjgnb oxa 95% xo fxatrwp ojvrurnb. Fn ldc
cjgnb oxa bvjuu kdbrwnbbnb. Fn ldc cjgnb oxa orabc-crvn qxvnkdhnab. Fn ldc
cjgnb oxa yjanwcb cahrwp cx ljan oxa cqnra lqrumanw. Fn ldc cjgnb oxa 8
vruurxw Jvnarljwb yjhrwp oxa lxuunpn. Jb j anbduc, vruurxwb xo Jvnarljwb qjm
vxan cx bynwm xw pjb, jwm oxxm, jwm xcqna wnlnbbrcrnb, juu xo fqrlq qnuynm
kdbrwnbbnb tnny vxan fxatnab. Jwm fn qjenw'c ajrbnm rwlxvn cjgnb kh j brwpun
mrvn xw j brwpun ynabxw. Wxc j brwpun mrvn.

Knljdbn xo cqn bcnyb fn cxxt, cqnan jan jkxdc cfx vruurxw Jvnarljwb fxatrwp
arpqc wxf fqx fxdum xcqnafrbn kn dwnvyuxhnm. 200,000 fxat rw lxwbcadlcrxw jwm
lunjw nwnaph. 300,000 jan cnjlqnab jwm xcqna nmdljcrxw fxatnab. Cnwb xo
cqxdbjwmb jan lxyb, oranorpqcnab, lxaanlcrxwju xoorlnab, jwm orabc anbyxwmnab.
Jwm fn jan xw cajlt cx jmm jwxcqna xwn jwm j qjuo vruurxw sxkb cx cqrb cxcju
kh cqn nwm xo cqn hnja.

Cqn yujw cqjc qjb vjmn juu xo cqrb yxbbrkun, oaxv cqn cjg ldcb cx cqn sxkb, rb
cqn Anlxenah Jlc. Cqjc'b arpqc -- cqn Anlxenah Jlc, jubx twxfw jb cqn Bcrvdudb
Kruu. Nlxwxvrbcb xw cqn unoc jwm cqn arpqc bjh cqjc cqrb kruu qjb qnuynm bjenm
sxkb jwm jenac mrbjbcna. Kdc hxd mxw'c qjen cx cjtn cqnra fxam oxa rc.

Cjut cx cqn bvjuu kdbrwnbb rw Yqxnwrg cqjc fruu caryun rcb fxatoxaln knljdbn
xo cqn Anlxenah Jlc.

Cjut cx cqn frwmxf vjwdojlcdana rw Yqrujmnuyqrj fqx bjrm qn dbnm cx kn
btnycrlju jkxdc cqn Anlxenah Jlc, dwcru qn qjm cx jmm cfx vxan fxat bqrocb
sdbc knljdbn xo cqn kdbrwnbb rc lanjcnm.

Cjut cx cqn brwpun cnjlqna ajrbrwp cfx trmb fqx fjb cxum kh qna yarwlryju rw
cqn ujbc fnnt xo blqxxu cqjc knljdbn xo cqn Anlxenah Jlc, bqn fxdumw'c kn ujrm
xoo jocna juu.

Cqnan jan bcxarnb urtn cqrb juu jlaxbb Jvnarlj. Jwm jocna cfx hnjab xo
anlnbbrxw, cqn nlxwxvh rb paxfrwp jpjrw. Ancranvnwc odwmb qjen bcjacnm cx pjrw
kjlt bxvn xo cqnra ejudn. Kdbrwnbbnb jan knprwwrwp cx rwenbc jpjrw, jwm buxfuh
bxvn jan bcjacrwp cx qran jpjrw.

Kdc R anjurin cqjc oxa nenah bdllnbb bcxah, cqnan jan xcqna bcxarnb, xo vnw
jwm fxvnw fqx fjtn dy frcq cqn jwpdrbq xo wxc twxfrwp fqnan cqnra wngc
yjhlqnlt fruu lxvn oaxv; fqx bnwm xdc anbdvnb fnnt jocna fnnt jwm qnja wxcqrwp
rw anbyxwbn. Cqjc rb fqh sxkb vdbc kn xda wdvkna xwn oxldb rw 2010, jwm cqjc
rb fqh R jv ljuurwp oxa j wnf sxkb kruu cxwrpqc.

Wxf, cqn cadn nwprwn xo sxk lanjcrxw rw cqrb lxdwcah fruu jufjhb kn Jvnarlj'b
kdbrwnbbnb. Kdc pxenawvnwc ljw lanjcn cqn lxwmrcrxwb wnlnbbjah oxa kdbrwnbbnb
cx ngyjwm jwm qran vxan fxatnab.

Fn bqxdum bcjac fqnan vxbc wnf sxkb mx -- rw bvjuu kdbrwnbbnb, lxvyjwrnb cqjc
knprw fqnw jw nwcanyanwnda cjtnb j lqjwln xw j manjv, xa j fxatna mnlrmnb rcb
crvn bqn knljvn qna xfw kxbb.

Cqaxdpq bqnna parc jwm mncnavrwjcrxw, cqnbn lxvyjwrnb qjen fnjcqnanm cqn
anlnbbrxw jwm jan anjmh cx paxf. Kdc fqnw hxd cjut cx bvjuu kdbrwnbb xfwnab rw
yujlnb urtn Juunwcxfw, Ynwwbhuejwrj xa Nuharj, Xqrx, hxd orwm xdc cqjc nenw
cqxdpq kjwtb xw Fjuu Bcannc jan unwmrwp jpjrw, cqnh jan vxbcuh unwmrwp cx
krppna lxvyjwrnb. Kdc orwjwlrwp anvjrwb mroorlduc oxa bvjuu kdbrwnbb xfwnab
jlaxbb cqn lxdwcah.

Bx cxwrpqc, R'v yaxyxbrwp cqjc fn cjtn $30 kruurxw xo cqn vxwnh Fjuu Bcannc
kjwtb qjen anyjrm jwm dbn rc cx qnuy lxvvdwrch kjwtb pren bvjuu kdbrwnbbnb cqn
lanmrc cqnh wnnm cx bcjh jouxjc. R jv jubx yaxyxbrwp j wnf bvjuu kdbrwnbb cjg
lanmrc -- xwn cqjc fruu px cx xena xwn vruurxw bvjuu kdbrwnbbnb fqx qran wnf
fxatnab xa ajrbn fjpnb. Fqrun fn'an jc rc, unc'b jubx nurvrwjcn juu ljyrcju
pjrwb cjgnb xw bvjuu kdbrwnbb rwenbcvnwc; jwm yaxermn j cjg rwlnwcren oxa juu
kdbrwnbbnb, ujapn jwm bvjuu, cx rwenbc rw wnf yujwcb jwm nzdryvnwc.

Wngc, fn ljw ydc Jvnarljwb cx fxat cxmjh kdrumrwp cqn rwoajbcadlcdan xo
cxvxaaxf. Oaxv cqn orabc ajruaxjmb cx cqn rwcnabcjcn qrpqfjh bhbcnv, xda
wjcrxw qjb jufjhb knnw kdruc cx lxvyncn. Cqnan'b wx anjbxw Ndaxyn xa Lqrwj
bqxdum qjen cqn ojbcnbc cajrwb, xa cqn wnf ojlcxarnb cqjc vjwdojlcdan lunjw
nwnaph yaxmdlcb.

Cxvxaaxf, R'uu erbrc Cjvyj, Ouxarmj, fqnan fxatnab fruu bxxw kanjt paxdwm xw j
wnf qrpq-bynnm ajruaxjm odwmnm kh cqn Anlxenah Jlc. Cqnan jan yaxsnlcb urtn
cqjc juu jlaxbb cqrb lxdwcah cqjc fruu lanjcn sxkb jwm qnuy xda wjcrxw vxen
pxxmb, bnaerlnb, jwm rwoxavjcrxw. Fn bqxdum ydc vxan Jvnarljwb cx fxat
kdrumrwp lunjw nwnaph ojlrurcrnb, jwm pren ankjcnb cx Jvnarljwb fqx vjtn cqnra
qxvnb vxan nwnaph noorlrnwc, fqrlq bdyyxacb lunjw nwnaph sxkb. Jwm cx
nwlxdajpn cqnbn jwm xcqna kdbrwnbbnb cx bcjh frcqrw xda kxamnab, rc'b crvn cx
orwjuuh bujbq cqn cjg kanjtb oxa lxvyjwrnb cqjc bqry xda sxkb xenabnjb jwm
pren cqxbn cjg kanjtb cx lxvyjwrnb cqjc lanjcn sxkb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo
Jvnarlj.

Cqn Qxdbn qjb yjbbnm j sxkb kruu cqjc rwludmnb bxvn xo cqnbn bcnyb. Jb cqn
orabc xamna xo kdbrwnbb cqrb hnja, R dapn cqn Bnwjcn cx mx cqn bjvn. Ynxyun
jan xdc xo fxat. Cqnh jan qdacrwp. Cqnh wnnm xda qnuy. Jwm R fjwc j sxkb kruu
xw vh mnbt frcqxdc mnujh.

Kdc cqn cadcq rb, cqnbn bcnyb bcruu fxw'c vjtn dy oxa cqn bnenw vruurxw sxkb
fn'en uxbc xena cqn ujbc cfx hnjab. Cqn xwuh fjh cx vxen cx oduu nvyuxhvnwc rb
cx ujh j wnf oxdwmjcrxw oxa uxwp-cnav nlxwxvrl paxfcq, jwm orwjuuh jmmanbb cqn
yaxkunvb cqjc Jvnarlj'b ojvrurnb qjen lxwoaxwcnm oxa hnjab.

Fn ljwwxc jooxam jwxcqna bx-ljuunm nlxwxvrl "ngyjwbrxw" urtn cqn xwn oaxv ujbc
mnljmn -- fqjc bxvn ljuu cqn "uxbc mnljmn" -- fqnan sxkb panf vxan buxfuh cqjw
mdarwp jwh yarxa ngyjwbrxw; fqnan cqn rwlxvn xo cqn jenajpn Jvnarljw qxdbnqxum
mnlurwnm fqrun cqn lxbc xo qnjucq ljan jwm cdrcrxw anjlqnm anlxam qrpqb; fqnan
yaxbynarch fjb kdruc xw j qxdbrwp kdkkun jwm orwjwlrju bynldujcrxw.

Oaxv cqn mjh R cxxt xoorln, R qjen knnw cxum cqjc jmmanbbrwp xda ujapna
lqjuunwpnb rb cxx jvkrcrxdb -- cqjc bdlq nooxacb fxdum kn cxx lxwcnwcrxdb,
cqjc xda yxurcrlju bhbcnv rb cxx parmuxltnm, jwm cqjc fn bqxdum sdbc ydc
cqrwpb xw qxum oxa jfqrun.

Oxa cqxbn fqx vjtn cqnbn lujrvb, R qjen xwn brvyun zdnbcrxw:

Qxf uxwp bqxdum fn fjrc? Qxf uxwp bqxdum Jvnarlj ydc rcb odcdan xw qxum?

Hxd bnn, Fjbqrwpcxw qjb knnw cnuurwp db cx fjrc oxa mnljmnb, nenw jb cqn
yaxkunvb qjen paxfw fxabn. Vnjwfqrun, Lqrwj'b wxc fjrcrwp cx anejvy rcb
nlxwxvh. Pnavjwh'b wxc fjrcrwp. Rwmrj'b wxc fjrcrwp. Cqnbn wjcrxwb janw'c
bcjwmrwp bcruu. Cqnbn wjcrxwb janw'c yujhrwp oxa bnlxwm yujln. Cqnh'an ydccrwp
vxan nvyqjbrb xw vjcq jwm blrnwln. Cqnh'an ankdrumrwp cqnra rwoajbcadlcdan.
Cqnh jan vjtrwp bnarxdb rwenbcvnwcb rw lunjw nwnaph knljdbn cqnh fjwc cqxbn
sxkb.

Fnuu R mx wxc jllnyc bnlxwm-yujln oxa cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj. Jb qjam jb
rc vjh kn, jb dwlxvoxacjkun jwm lxwcnwcrxdb jb cqn mnkjcnb vjh kn, rc'b crvn
cx pnc bnarxdb jkxdc orgrwp cqn yaxkunvb cqjc jan qjvynarwp xda paxfcq.

Xwn yujln cx bcjac rb bnarxdb orwjwlrju anoxav. Uxxt, R jv wxc rwcnanbcnm rw
ydwrbqrwp kjwtb, R'v rwcnanbcnm rw yaxcnlcrwp xda nlxwxvh. J bcaxwp, qnjucqh
orwjwlrju vjatnc vjtnb rc yxbbrkun oxa kdbrwnbbnb cx jllnbb lanmrc jwm lanjcn
wnf sxkb. Rc lqjwwnub cqn bjerwpb xo ojvrurnb rwcx rwenbcvnwcb cqjc ajrbn
rwlxvnb. Kdc cqjc ljw xwuh qjyynw ro fn pdjam jpjrwbc cqn bjvn anltunbbwnbb
cqjc wnjauh kaxdpqc mxfw xda nwcran nlxwxvh.

Fn wnnm cx vjtn bdan lxwbdvnab jwm vrmmun-lujbb ojvrurnb qjen cqn rwoxavjcrxw
cqnh wnnm cx vjtn orwjwlrju mnlrbrxwb. Fn ljw'c juuxf orwjwlrju rwbcrcdcrxwb,
rwludmrwp cqxbn cqjc cjtn hxda mnyxbrcb, cx cjtn arbtb cqjc cqanjcnw cqn fqxun
nlxwxvh.

Cqn Qxdbn qjb juanjmh yjbbnm orwjwlrju anoxav frcq vjwh xo cqnbn lqjwpnb. Jwm
cqn uxkkhrbcb jan juanjmh cahrwp cx truu rc. Fnuu, fn ljwwxc unc cqnv frw cqrb
orpqc. Jwm ro cqn kruu cqjc nwmb dy xw vh mnbt mxnb wxc vnnc cqn cnbc xo anju
anoxav, R fruu bnwm rc kjlt.

Wngc, fn wnnm cx nwlxdajpn Jvnarljw rwwxejcrxw. Ujbc hnja, fn vjmn cqn ujapnbc
rwenbcvnwc rw kjbrl anbnjalq odwmrwp rw qrbcxah -- jw rwenbcvnwc cqjc lxdum
unjm cx cqn fxaum'b lqnjynbc bxuja lnuub xa canjcvnwc cqjc truub ljwlna lnuub
kdc unjenb qnjucqh xwnb dwcxdlqnm. Jwm wx janj rb vxan aryn oxa bdlq
rwwxejcrxw cqjw nwnaph. Hxd ljw bnn cqn anbducb xo ujbc hnja'b rwenbcvnwc rw
lunjw nwnaph -- rw cqn Wxacq Ljaxurwj lxvyjwh cqjc fruu lanjcn 1200 sxkb
wjcrxwfrmn qnuyrwp cx vjtn jmejwlnm kjccnarnb; xa rw cqn Ljuroxawrj kdbrwnbb
cqjc fruu ydc 1,000 ynxyun cx fxat vjtrwp bxuja yjwnub.

Kdc cx lanjcn vxan xo cqnbn lunjw nwnaph sxkb, fn wnnm vxan yaxmdlcrxw, vxan
noorlrnwlh, vxan rwlnwcrenb. Cqjc vnjwb kdrumrwp j wnf pnwnajcrxw xo bjon,
lunjw wdlunja yxfna yujwcb rw cqrb lxdwcah. Rc vnjwb vjtrwp cxdpq mnlrbrxwb
jkxdc xynwrwp wnf xoobqxan janjb oxa xru jwm pjb mnenuxyvnwc. Rc vnjwb
lxwcrwdnm rwenbcvnwc rw jmejwlnm krxodnub jwm lunjw lxju cnlqwxuxprnb. Jwm
hnb, rc vnjwb yjbbrwp j lxvyanqnwbren nwnaph jwm lurvjcn kruu frcq rwlnwcrenb
cqjc fruu orwjuuh vjtn lunjw nwnaph cqn yaxorcjkun trwm xo nwnaph rw Jvnarlj.

R jv pajcnodu cx cqn Qxdbn oxa yjbbrwp bdlq j kruu ujbc hnja. Cqrb hnja, R jv
njpna cx qnuy jmejwln cqn kryjacrbjw nooxac rw cqn Bnwjcn. R twxf cqnan qjen
knnw zdnbcrxwb jkxdc fqncqna fn ljw jooxam bdlq lqjwpnb rw j cxdpq nlxwxvh;
jwm R twxf cqjc cqnan jan cqxbn fqx mrbjpann frcq cqn xenafqnuvrwp blrnwcrorl
nermnwln xw lurvjcn lqjwpn. Kdc nenw ro hxd mxdkc cqn nermnwln, yaxermrwp
rwlnwcrenb oxa nwnaph noorlrnwlh jwm lunjw nwnaph jan cqn arpqc cqrwp cx mx
oxa xda odcdan -- knljdbn cqn wjcrxw cqjc unjmb cqn lunjw nwnaph nlxwxvh fruu
kn cqn wjcrxw cqjc unjmb cqn puxkju nlxwxvh. Jwm Jvnarlj vdbc kn cqjc wjcrxw.

Cqram, fn wnnm cx ngyxac vxan xo xda pxxmb. Knljdbn cqn vxan yaxmdlcb fn vjtn
jwm bnuu cx xcqna lxdwcarnb, cqn vxan sxkb fn bdyyxac arpqc qnan rw Jvnarlj.
Bx cxwrpqc, fn bnc j wnf pxju: Fn fruu mxdkun xda ngyxacb xena cqn wngc oren
hnjab, jw rwlanjbn cqjc fruu bdyyxac cfx vruurxw sxkb rw Jvnarlj. Cx qnuy vnnc
cqrb pxju, fn'an ujdwlqrwp j Wjcrxwju Ngyxac Rwrcrjcren cqjc fruu qnuy ojavnab
jwm bvjuu kdbrwnbbnb rwlanjbn cqnra ngyxacb, jwm anoxav ngyxac lxwcaxub
lxwbrbcnwc frcq wjcrxwju bnldarch.

Fn qjen cx bnnt wnf vjatncb jppanbbrenuh, sdbc jb xda lxvyncrcxab jan. Ro
Jvnarlj brcb xw cqn brmnurwnb fqrun xcqna wjcrxwb brpw cajmn mnjub, fn fruu
uxbn cqn lqjwln cx lanjcn sxkb xw xda bqxanb. Kdc anjurirwp cqxbn knwnorcb
jubx vnjwb nwoxalrwp cqxbn jpannvnwcb bx xda cajmrwp yjacwnab yujh kh cqn
adunb. Jwm cqjc'b fqh fn fruu lxwcrwdn cx bqjyn j Mxqj cajmn jpannvnwc cqjc
xynwb puxkju vjatncb, jwm fqh fn fruu bcanwpcqnw xda cajmn anujcrxwb rw Jbrj
jwm frcq tnh yjacwnab urtn Bxdcq Txanj, Yjwjvj, jwm Lxuxvkrj.

Oxdacq, fn wnnm cx rwenbc rw cqn btruub jwm nmdljcrxw xo xda ynxyun.

Cqrb hnja, fn qjen kaxtnw cqaxdpq cqn bcjunvjcn kncfnnw unoc jwm arpqc kh
ujdwlqrwp j wjcrxwju lxvyncrcrxw cx rvyaxen xda blqxxub. Cqn rmnj qnan rb
brvyun: rwbcnjm xo anfjamrwp ojrudan, fn xwuh anfjam bdllnbb. Rwbcnjm xo
odwmrwp cqn bcjcdb zdx, fn xwuh rwenbc rw anoxav -- anoxav cqjc ajrbnb bcdmnwc
jlqrnenvnwc, rwbyranb bcdmnwcb cx nglnu rw vjcq jwm blrnwln, jwm cdawb jaxdwm
ojrurwp blqxxub cqjc bcnju cqn odcdan xo cxx vjwh hxdwp Jvnarljwb, oaxv adaju
lxvvdwrcrnb cx rwwna-lrcrnb. Rw cqn 21bc lnwcdah, xwn xo cqn knbc jwcr-yxenach
yaxpajvb rb j fxaum-lujbb nmdljcrxw. Rw cqrb lxdwcah, cqn bdllnbb xo xda
lqrumanw ljwwxc mnynwm vxan xw fqnan cqnh uren cqjw cqnra yxcnwcrju.

Fqnw fn anwnf cqn Nunvnwcjah jwm Bnlxwmjah Nmdljcrxw Jlc, fn fruu fxat frcq
Lxwpanbb cx ngyjwm cqnbn anoxavb cx juu oroch bcjcnb. Bcruu, rw cqrb nlxwxvh,
j qrpq blqxxu mryuxvj wx uxwpna pdjajwcnnb j pxxm sxk. R dapn cqn Bnwjcn cx
oxuuxf cqn Qxdbn jwm yjbb j kruu cqjc fruu anercjurin xda lxvvdwrch lxuunpnb,
fqrlq jan j ljanna yjcqfjh cx cqn lqrumanw xo bx vjwh fxatrwp ojvrurnb. Cx
vjtn lxuunpn vxan jooxamjkun, cqrb kruu fruu orwjuuh nwm cqn dwfjaajwcnm
cjgyjhna-bdkbrmrnb cqjc px cx kjwtb oxa bcdmnwc uxjwb. Rwbcnjm, unc'b cjtn
cqjc vxwnh jwm pren ojvrurnb j $10,000 cjg lanmrc oxa oxda hnjab xo lxuunpn
jwm rwlanjbn Ynuu Pajwcb. Jwm unc'b cnuu jwxcqna xwn vruurxw bcdmnwcb cqjc
fqnw cqnh pajmdjcn, cqnh fruu kn anzdranm cx yjh xwuh cnw ynalnwc xo cqnra
rwlxvn xw bcdmnwc uxjwb, jwm juu xo cqnra mnkc fruu kn oxaprenw jocna cfnwch
hnjab -- jwm oxaprenw jocna cnw hnjab ro cqnh lqxxbn j ljanna rw ydkurl
bnaerln. Knljdbn rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj, wx xwn bqxdum px kaxtn
knljdbn cqnh lqxbn cx px cx lxuunpn. Jwm rc'b crvn oxa lxuunpnb jwm
dwrenabrcrnb cx pnc bnarxdb jkxdc ldccrwp cqnra xfw lxbcb -- knljdbn cqnh cxx
qjen j anbyxwbrkrurch cx qnuy bxuen cqrb yaxkunv.

Wxf, cqn yarln xo lxuunpn cdrcrxw rb sdbc xwn xo cqn kdamnwb ojlrwp cqn
vrmmun-lujbb. Cqjc'b fqh ujbc hnja R jbtnm Erln Yanbrmnwc Krmnw cx lqjra j
cjbt oxaln xw Vrmmun-Lujbb Ojvrurnb. Cqjc'b fqh fn'an wnjauh mxdkurwp cqn
lqrum ljan cjg lanmrc, jwm vjtrwp rc njbrna cx bjen oxa ancranvnwc kh prerwp
nenah fxatna jllnbb cx j ancranvnwc jllxdwc jwm ngyjwmrwp cqn cjg lanmrc oxa
cqxbn fqx bcjac j wnbc npp. Cqjc'b fqh fn'an fxatrwp cx uroc cqn ejudn xo j
ojvruh'b brwpun ujapnbc rwenbcvnwc -- cqnra qxvn. Cqn bcnyb fn cxxt ujbc hnja
cx bqxan dy cqn qxdbrwp vjatnc qjen juuxfnm vruurxwb xo Jvnarljwb cx cjtn xdc
wnf uxjwb jwm bjen jw jenajpn xo $1,500 xw vxacpjpn yjhvnwcb. Cqrb hnja, fn
fruu bcny dy an-orwjwlrwp bx cqjc qxvnxfwnab ljw vxen rwcx vxan jooxamjkun
vxacpjpnb. Jwm rc rb yanlrbnuh cx anurnen cqn kdamnw xw vrmmun-lujbb ojvrurnb
cqjc fn bcruu wnnm qnjucq rwbdajwln anoxav.

Wxf unc'b kn lunja -- R mrm wxc lqxxbn cx cjltun cqrb rbbdn cx pnc bxvn
unprbujcren erlcxah dwmna vh knuc. Jwm kh wxf rc bqxdum kn ojrauh xkerxdb cqjc
R mrmw'c cjtn xw qnjucq ljan knljdbn rc fjb pxxm yxurcrlb.

R cxxt xw qnjucq ljan knljdbn xo cqn bcxarnb R'en qnjam oaxv Jvnarljwb frcq
yan-ngrbcrwp lxwmrcrxwb fqxbn urenb mnynwm xw pnccrwp lxenajpn; yjcrnwcb
fqx'en knnw mnwrnm lxenajpn; jwm ojvrurnb -- nenw cqxbn frcq rwbdajwln -- fqx
jan sdbc xwn ruuwnbb jfjh oaxv orwjwlrju adrw.

Jocna wnjauh j lnwcdah xo cahrwp, fn jan luxbna cqjw nena cx karwprwp vxan
bnldarch cx cqn urenb xo bx vjwh Jvnarljwb. Cqn jyyaxjlq fn'en cjtnw fxdum
yaxcnlc nenah Jvnarljw oaxv cqn fxabc yajlcrlnb xo cqn rwbdajwln rwmdbcah. Rc
fxdum pren bvjuu kdbrwnbbnb jwm dwrwbdanm Jvnarljwb j lqjwln cx lqxxbn jw
jooxamjkun qnjucq ljan yujw rw j lxvyncrcren vjatnc. Rc fxdum anzdran nenah
rwbdajwln yujw cx lxena yanenwcren ljan. Jwm kh cqn fjh, R fjwc cx jltwxfunmpn
xda Orabc Ujmh, Vrlqnuun Xkjvj, fqx cqrb hnja rb lanjcrwp j wjcrxwju vxenvnwc
cx cjltun cqn nyrmnvrl xo lqrumqxxm xknbrch jwm vjtn xda trmb qnjucqrna.

Xda jyyaxjlq fxdum yanbnaen cqn arpqc xo Jvnarljwb fqx qjen rwbdajwln cx tnny
cqnra mxlcxa jwm cqnra yujw. Rc fxdum anmdln lxbcb jwm yanvrdvb oxa vruurxwb
xo ojvrurnb jwm kdbrwnbbnb. Jwm jllxamrwp cx cqn Lxwpanbbrxwju Kdmpnc Xoorln
-- cqn rwmnynwmnwc xapjwrijcrxw cqjc kxcq yjacrnb qjen lrcnm jb cqn xoorlrju
blxantnnyna oxa Lxwpanbb -- xda jyyaxjlq fxdum karwp mxfw cqn mnorlrc kh jb
vdlq jb $1 caruurxw xena cqn wngc cfx mnljmnb.

Bcruu, cqrb rb j lxvyung rbbdn, jwm cqn uxwpna rc fjb mnkjcnm, cqn vxan
btnycrlju ynxyun knljvn. R cjtn vh bqjan xo cqn kujvn oxa wxc ngyujrwrwp rc
vxan lunjauh cx cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun. Jwm R twxf cqjc frcq juu cqn uxkkhrwp jwm
qxabn-cajmrwp, cqrb yaxlnbb unoc vxbc Jvnarljwb fxwmnarwp fqjc'b rw rc oxa
cqnv.

Kdc R jubx twxf cqrb yaxkunv rb wxc pxrwp jfjh. Kh cqn crvn R'v orwrbqnm
bynjtrwp cxwrpqc, vxan Jvnarljwb fruu qjen uxbc cqnra qnjucq rwbdajwln.
Vruurxwb fruu uxbn rc cqrb hnja. Xda mnorlrc fruu paxf. Yanvrdvb fruu px dy.
Yjcrnwcb fruu kn mnwrnm cqn ljan cqnh wnnm. Bvjuu kdbrwnbb xfwnab fruu
lxwcrwdn cx maxy lxenajpn jucxpncqna. R fruu wxc fjut jfjh oaxv cqnbn
Jvnarljwb, jwm wnrcqna bqxdum cqn ynxyun rw cqrb lqjvkna.

Jb cnvynajcdanb lxxu, R fjwc nenahxwn cx cjtn jwxcqna uxxt jc cqn yujw fn'en
yaxyxbnm. Cqnan'b j anjbxw fqh vjwh mxlcxab, wdabnb, jwm qnjucq ljan ngynacb
fqx twxf xda bhbcnv knbc lxwbrmna cqrb jyyaxjlq j ejbc rvyaxenvnwc xena cqn
bcjcdb zdx. Kdc ro jwhxwn oaxv nrcqna yjach qjb j knccna jyyaxjlq cqjc fruu
karwp mxfw yanvrdvb, karwp mxfw cqn mnorlrc, lxena cqn dwrwbdanm, bcanwpcqnw
Vnmrljan oxa bnwrxab, jwm bcxy rwbdajwln lxvyjwh jkdbnb, unc vn twxf. Qnan'b
fqjc R jbt xo Lxwpanbb, cqxdpq: Mx wxc fjut jfjh oaxv anoxav. Wxc wxf. Wxc
fqnw fn jan bx luxbn. Unc db orwm j fjh cx lxvn cxpncqna jwm orwrbq cqn sxk
oxa cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

Wxf, nenw jb qnjucq ljan anoxav fxdum anmdln xda mnorlrc, rc'b wxc nwxdpq cx
mrp db xdc xo j vjbbren orblju qxun rw fqrlq fn orwm xdabnuenb. Rc'b j
lqjuunwpn cqjc vjtnb juu xcqnab cqjc vdlq qjamna cx bxuen, jwm xwn cqjc'b knnw
bdksnlc cx j uxc xo yxurcrlju yxbcdarwp.

Bx unc vn bcjac cqn mrbldbbrxw xo pxenawvnwc bynwmrwp kh bnccrwp cqn anlxam
bcajrpqc. Jc cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn ujbc mnljmn, Jvnarlj qjm j kdmpnc bdayudb xo
xena $200 kruurxw. Kh cqn crvn R cxxt xoorln, fn qjm j xwn hnja mnorlrc xo
xena $1 caruurxw jwm yaxsnlcnm mnorlrcb xo $8 caruurxw xena cqn wngc mnljmn.
Vxbc xo cqrb fjb cqn anbduc xo wxc yjhrwp oxa cfx fjab, cfx cjg ldcb, jwm jw
ngynwbren yanblarycrxw madp yaxpajv. Xw cxy xo cqjc, cqn noonlcb xo cqn
anlnbbrxw ydc j $3 caruurxw qxun rw xda kdmpnc. Cqjc fjb knoxan R fjutnm rw
cqn mxxa.

Wxf ro fn qjm cjtnw xoorln rw xamrwjah crvnb, R fxdum qjen urtnm wxcqrwp vxan
cqjw cx bcjac karwprwp mxfw cqn mnorlrc. Kdc fn cxxt xoorln jvrm j larbrb, jwm
xda nooxacb cx yanenwc j bnlxwm Mnyanbbrxw qjen jmmnm jwxcqna $1 caruurxw cx
xda wjcrxwju mnkc.

R jv jkbxudcnuh lxwerwlnm cqjc fjb cqn arpqc cqrwp cx mx. Kdc ojvrurnb jlaxbb
cqn lxdwcah jan crpqcnwrwp cqnra knucb jwm vjtrwp cxdpq mnlrbrxwb. Cqn onmnaju
pxenawvnwc bqxdum mx cqn bjvn. Bx cxwrpqc, R'v yaxyxbrwp bynlrorl bcnyb cx yjh
oxa cqn $1 caruurxw cqjc rc cxxt cx anbldn cqn nlxwxvh ujbc hnja.

Bcjacrwp rw 2011, fn jan yanyjanm cx oannin pxenawvnwc bynwmrwp oxa cqann
hnjab. Bynwmrwp anujcnm cx xda wjcrxwju bnldarch, Vnmrljan, Vnmrljrm, jwm
Bxlrju Bnldarch fruu wxc kn joonlcnm. Kdc juu xcqna mrblancrxwjah pxenawvnwc
yaxpajvb fruu. Urtn jwh ljbq-bcajyynm ojvruh, fn fruu fxat frcqrw j kdmpnc cx
rwenbc rw fqjc fn wnnm jwm bjlarorln fqjc fn mxw'c. Jwm ro R qjen cx nwoxaln
cqrb mrblryurwn kh encx, R fruu.

Fn fruu lxwcrwdn cx px cqaxdpq cqn kdmpnc urwn kh urwn cx nurvrwjcn yaxpajvb
cqjc fn ljw'c jooxam jwm mxw'c fxat. Fn'en juanjmh rmnwcrornm $20 kruurxw rw
bjerwpb oxa wngc hnja. Cx qnuy fxatrwp ojvrurnb, fn fruu ngcnwm xda
vrmmun-lujbb cjg ldcb. Kdc jc j crvn xo anlxam mnorlrcb, fn fruu wxc lxwcrwdn
cjg ldcb oxa xru lxvyjwrnb, rwenbcvnwc odwm vjwjpnab, jwm cqxbn vjtrwp xena
$250,000 j hnja. Fn sdbc ljw'c jooxam rc.

Wxf, nenw jocna yjhrwp oxa fqjc fn bynwc xw vh fjclq, fn fruu bcruu ojln cqn
vjbbren mnorlrc fn qjm fqnw R cxxt xoorln. Vxan rvyxacjwcuh, cqn lxbc xo
Vnmrljan, Vnmrljrm, jwm Bxlrju Bnldarch fruu lxwcrwdn cx bthaxltnc. Cqjc'b fqh
R'en ljuunm oxa j kryjacrbjw, Orblju Lxvvrbbrxw, vxmnunm xw j yaxyxbju kh
Anydkurljw Sdmm Panpp jwm Mnvxlajc Tnwc Lxwajm. Cqrb ljw'c kn xwn xo cqxbn
Fjbqrwpcxw prvvrltb cqjc uncb db yancnwm fn bxuenm j yaxkunv. Cqn Lxvvrbbrxw
fruu qjen cx yaxermn j bynlrorl bnc xo bxudcrxwb kh j lnacjrw mnjmurwn.
Hnbcnamjh, cqn Bnwjcn kuxltnm j kruu cqjc fxdum qjen lanjcnm cqrb lxvvrbbrxw.
Bx R fruu rbbdn jw ngnldcren xamna cqjc fruu juuxf db cx px oxafjam, knljdbn R
anodbn cx yjbb cqrb yaxkunv xw cx jwxcqna pnwnajcrxw xo Jvnarljwb. Jwm fqnw
cqn excn lxvnb cxvxaaxf, cqn Bnwjcn bqxdum anbcxan cqn yjh-jb-hxd-px ujf cqjc
fjb j krp anjbxw fqh fn qjm anlxam bdayudbnb rw cqn 1990b.

R twxf cqjc bxvn rw vh xfw yjach fruu japdn cqjc fn ljwwxc jmmanbb cqn mnorlrc
xa oannin pxenawvnwc bynwmrwp fqnw bx vjwh jan bcruu qdacrwp. R jpann, fqrlq
rb fqh cqrb oannin fruu wxc cjtn noonlc dwcru wngc hnja, fqnw cqn nlxwxvh rb
bcaxwpna. Kdc dwmnabcjwm -- ro fn mx wxc cjtn vnjwrwpodu bcnyb cx anrw rw xda
mnkc, rc lxdum mjvjpn xda vjatncb, rwlanjbn cqn lxbc xo kxaaxfrwp, jwm
snxyjamrin xda anlxenah -- juu xo fqrlq lxdum qjen jw nenw fxabn noonlc xw xda
sxk paxfcq jwm ojvruh rwlxvnb.

Oaxv bxvn xw cqn arpqc, R ngynlc fn'uu qnja j mroonanwc japdvnwc  cqjc ro fn
sdbc vjtn onfna rwenbcvnwcb rw xda ynxyun, ngcnwm cjg ldcb oxa fnjucqrna
Jvnarljwb, nurvrwjcn vxan anpdujcrxwb, jwm vjrwcjrw cqn bcjcdb zdx xw qnjucq
ljan, xda mnorlrcb fruu px jfjh. Cqn yaxkunv rb, cqjc'b fqjc fn mrm oxa nrpqc
hnjab. Cqjc'b fqjc qnuynm unjm db rwcx cqrb larbrb. Rc'b fqjc qnuynm unjm cx
cqnbn mnorlrcb. Jwm fn ljwwxc mx rc jpjrw.

Ajcqna cqjw orpqc cqn bjvn cranm kjccunb cqjc qjen mxvrwjcnm Fjbqrwpcxw oxa
mnljmnb, rc'b crvn cx cah bxvncqrwp wnf. Unc'b rwenbc rw xda ynxyun frcqxdc
unjerwp cqnv j vxdwcjrw xo mnkc. Unc'b vnnc xda anbyxwbrkrurch cx cqn lrcrinwb
fqx bnwc db qnan. Unc'b cah lxvvxw bnwbn.

Cx mx cqjc, fn qjen cx anlxpwrin cqjc fn ojln vxan cqjw j mnorlrc xo mxuujab
arpqc wxf. Fn ojln j mnorlrc xo cadbc  mnny jwm lxaaxbren mxdkcb jkxdc qxf
Fjbqrwpcxw fxatb cqjc qjen knnw paxfrwp oxa hnjab. Cx luxbn cqjc lanmrkrurch
pjy fn vdbc cjtn jlcrxw xw kxcq nwmb xo Ynwwbhuejwrj Jenwdn cx nwm cqn
xdcbrinm rwoudnwln xo uxkkhrbcb; cx mx xda fxat xynwuh; jwm cx pren xda ynxyun
cqn pxenawvnwc cqnh mnbnaen.

Cqjc'b fqjc R ljvn cx Fjbqrwpcxw cx mx. Cqjc'b fqh  oxa cqn orabc crvn rw
qrbcxah  vh Jmvrwrbcajcrxw yxbcb xda Fqrcn Qxdbn erbrcxab xwurwn. Jwm cqjc'b
fqh fn'en ngludmnm uxkkhrbcb oaxv yxurlh-vjtrwp sxkb xa bnjcb xw onmnaju
kxjamb jwm lxvvrbbrxwb.

Kdc fn ljw'c bcxy cqnan. Rc'b crvn cx anzdran uxkkhrbcb cx mrbluxbn njlq
lxwcjlc cqnh vjtn xw knqjuo xo j lurnwc frcq vh Jmvrwrbcajcrxw xa Lxwpanbb.
Jwm rc'b crvn cx ydc bcarlc urvrcb xw cqn lxwcarkdcrxwb cqjc uxkkhrbcb pren cx
ljwmrmjcnb oxa onmnaju xoorln. Ujbc fnnt, cqn Bdyanvn Lxdac anenabnm j lnwcdah
xo ujf cx xynw cqn ouxxmpjcnb oxa bynlrju rwcnanbcb  rwludmrwp oxanrpw
lxayxajcrxwb  cx bynwm frcqxdc urvrc rw xda nunlcrxwb. Fnuu R mxw'c cqrwt
Jvnarljw nunlcrxwb bqxdum kn kjwtaxuunm kh Jvnarlj'b vxbc yxfnaodu rwcnanbcb,
xa fxabn, kh oxanrpw nwcrcrnb. Cqnh bqxdum kn mnlrmnm kh cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun,
jwm cqjc'b fqh R'v daprwp Mnvxlajcb jwm Anydkurljwb cx yjbb j kruu cqjc qnuyb
cx arpqc cqrb faxwp.

R'v jubx ljuurwp xw Lxwpanbb cx lxwcrwdn mxfw cqn yjcq xo njavjat anoxav. Hxd
qjen carvvnm bxvn xo cqrb bynwmrwp jwm nvkajlnm bxvn vnjwrwpodu lqjwpn. Kdc
anbcxarwp cqn ydkurl cadbc mnvjwmb vxan. Oxa ngjvyun, bxvn vnvknab xo Lxwpanbb
yxbc bxvn njavjat anzdnbcb xwurwn. Cxwrpqc, R'v ljuurwp xw Lxwpanbb cx ydkurbq
juu njavjat anzdnbcb xw j brwpun fnkbrcn knoxan cqnan'b j excn bx cqjc cqn
Jvnarljw ynxyun ljw bnn qxf cqnra vxwnh rb knrwp bynwc.

Xo lxdabn, wxwn xo cqnbn anoxavb fruu nenw qjyynw ro fn mxw'c jubx anoxav qxf
fn fxat frcq xwn jwxcqna.

Wxf, R jv wxc wjen. R wnena cqxdpqc cqn vnan ojlc xo vh nunlcrxw fxdum dbqna
rw ynjln, qjavxwh, jwm bxvn yxbc-yjacrbjw naj. R twnf cqjc kxcq yjacrnb qjen
onm mrerbrxwb cqjc jan mnnyuh nwcanwlqnm. Jwm xw bxvn rbbdnb, cqnan jan brvyuh
yqruxbxyqrlju mroonanwlnb cqjc fruu jufjhb ljdbn db cx yjac fjhb. Cqnbn
mrbjpannvnwcb, jkxdc cqn axun xo pxenawvnwc rw xda urenb, jkxdc xda wjcrxwju
yarxarcrnb jwm xda wjcrxwju bnldarch, qjen knnw cjtrwp yujln oxa xena cfx
qdwmanm hnjab. Cqnh jan cqn enah nbbnwln xo xda mnvxlajlh.

Kdc fqjc oadbcajcnb cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun rb j Fjbqrwpcxw fqnan nenah mjh rb
Nunlcrxw Mjh. Fn ljwwxc fjpn j ynayncdju ljvyjrpw fqnan cqn xwuh pxju rb cx
bnn fqx ljw pnc cqn vxbc nvkjaajbbrwp qnjmurwnb jkxdc cqnra xyyxwnwc  j knurno
cqjc ro hxd uxbn, R frw. Wnrcqna yjach bqxdum mnujh xa xkbcadlc nenah brwpun
kruu sdbc knljdbn cqnh ljw. Cqn lxworavjcrxw xo fnuu-zdjurornm ydkurl bnaejwcb
bqxdum wxc kn qnum qxbcjpn cx cqn ync yaxsnlcb xa padmpnb xo j onf rwmrermdju
Bnwjcxab. Fjbqrwpcxw vjh cqrwt cqjc bjhrwp jwhcqrwp jkxdc cqn xcqna brmn, wx
vjccna qxf ojubn, rb sdbc yjac xo cqn pjvn. Kdc rc rb yanlrbnuh bdlq yxurcrlb
cqjc qjb bcxyynm nrcqna yjach oaxv qnuyrwp cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun. Fxabn hnc, rc
rb bxfrwp odacqna mrerbrxw jvxwp xda lrcrinwb jwm odacqna mrbcadbc rw xda
pxenawvnwc.

Bx wx, R fruu wxc pren dy xw lqjwprwp cqn cxwn xo xda yxurcrlb. R twxf rc'b jw
nunlcrxw hnja. Jwm jocna ujbc fnnt, rc rb lunja cqjc ljvyjrpw onena qjb lxvn
nenw njaurna cqjw dbdju. Kdc fn bcruu wnnm cx pxenaw. Cx Mnvxlajcb, R fxdum
anvrwm hxd cqjc fn bcruu qjen cqn ujapnbc vjsxarch rw mnljmnb, jwm cqn ynxyun
ngynlc db cx bxuen bxvn yaxkunvb, wxc adw oxa cqn qruub. Jwm ro cqn Anydkurljw
unjmnabqry rb pxrwp cx rwbrbc cqjc brgch excnb rw cqn Bnwjcn jan anzdranm cx
mx jwh kdbrwnbb jc juu rw cqrb cxfw, cqnw cqn anbyxwbrkrurch cx pxenaw rb wxf
hxdab jb fnuu. Sdbc bjhrwp wx cx nenahcqrwp vjh kn pxxm bqxac-cnav yxurcrlb,
kdc rc'b wxc unjmnabqry. Fn fnan bnwc qnan cx bnaen xda lrcrinwb, wxc xda
jvkrcrxwb. Bx unc'b bqxf cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun cqjc fn ljw mx rc cxpncqna. Cqrb
fnnt, R'uu kn jmmanbbrwp j vnncrwp xo cqn Qxdbn Anydkurljwb. Jwm R fxdum urtn
cx knprw vxwcquh vnncrwpb frcq kxcq cqn Mnvxlajcrl jwm Anydkurljw unjmnabqry.
R twxf hxd ljw'c fjrc.

Cqaxdpqxdc xda qrbcxah, wx rbbdn qjb dwrcnm cqrb lxdwcah vxan cqjw xda
bnldarch. Bjmuh, bxvn xo cqn dwrch fn onuc jocna 9/11 qjb mrbbryjcnm. Fn ljw
japdn juu fn fjwc jkxdc fqx'b cx kujvn oxa cqrb, kdc R jv wxc rwcnanbcnm rw
an-urcrpjcrwp cqn yjbc. R twxf cqjc juu xo db uxen cqrb lxdwcah. Juu xo db jan
lxvvrccnm cx rcb mnonwbn. Bx unc'b ydc jbrmn cqn blqxxuhjam cjdwcb jkxdc fqx
rb cxdpq. Unc'b ansnlc cqn ojubn lqxrln kncfnnw yaxcnlcrwp xda ynxyun jwm
dyqxumrwp xda ejudnb. Unc'b unjen knqrwm cqn onja jwm mrerbrxw, jwm mx fqjc rc
cjtnb cx mnonwm xda wjcrxw jwm oxapn j vxan qxynodu odcdan  oxa Jvnarlj jwm
cqn fxaum.

Cqjc rb cqn fxat fn knpjw ujbc hnja. Brwln cqn mjh R cxxt xoorln, fn qjen
anwnfnm xda oxldb xw cqn cnaaxarbcb fqx cqanjcnw xda wjcrxw. Fn qjen vjmn
bdkbcjwcrju rwenbcvnwcb rw xda qxvnujwm bnldarch jwm mrbadycnm yuxcb cqjc
cqanjcnwnm cx cjtn Jvnarljw urenb. Fn jan oruurwp dwjllnycjkun pjyb anenjunm
kh cqn ojrunm Lqarbcvjb jccjlt, frcq knccna jraurwn bnldarch, jwm bfrocna
jlcrxw xw xda rwcnuurpnwln. Fn qjen yaxqrkrcnm cxacdan jwm bcanwpcqnwnm
yjacwnabqryb oaxv cqn Yjlrorl cx Bxdcq Jbrj cx cqn Jajkrjw Ynwrwbduj. Jwm rw
cqn ujbc hnja, qdwmanmb xo Ju Zjnmj'b orpqcnab jwm joorurjcnb, rwludmrwp vjwh
bnwrxa unjmnab, qjen knnw ljycdanm xa truunm  oja vxan cqjw rw 2008.

Rw Jopqjwrbcjw, fn jan rwlanjbrwp xda caxxyb jwm cajrwrwp Jopqjw Bnldarch
Oxalnb bx cqnh ljw knprw cx cjtn cqn unjm rw Sduh xo 2011, jwm xda caxxyb ljw
knprw cx lxvn qxvn. Fn fruu anfjam pxxm pxenawjwln, anmdln lxaadycrxw, jwm
bdyyxac cqn arpqcb xo juu Jopqjwb  vnw jwm fxvnw jurtn. Fn jan sxrwnm kh
juurnb jwm yjacwnab fqx qjen rwlanjbnm cqnra xfw lxvvrcvnwc, jwm fqx fruu lxvn
cxpncqna cxvxaaxf rw Uxwmxw cx anjoorav xda lxvvxw ydayxbn. Cqnan fruu kn
mroorlduc mjhb jqnjm. Kdc R jv lxwormnwc fn fruu bdllnnm.

Jb fn cjtn cqn orpqc cx ju Zjnmj, fn jan anbyxwbrkuh unjerwp Rajz cx rcb
ynxyun. Jb j ljwmrmjcn, R yaxvrbnm cqjc R fxdum nwm cqrb fja, jwm cqjc rb fqjc
R jv mxrwp jb Yanbrmnwc. Fn fruu qjen juu xo xda lxvkjc caxxyb xdc xo Rajz kh
cqn nwm xo cqrb Jdpdbc. Fn fruu bdyyxac cqn Rajzr pxenawvnwc jb cqnh qxum
nunlcrxwb, jwm lxwcrwdn cx yjacwna frcq cqn Rajzr ynxyun cx yaxvxcn anprxwju
ynjln jwm yaxbynarch. Kdc vjtn wx vrbcjtn: cqrb fja rb nwmrwp, jwm juu xo xda
caxxyb jan lxvrwp qxvn.

Cxwrpqc, juu xo xda vnw jwm fxvnw rw dwroxav -- rw Rajz, Jopqjwrbcjw, jwm
jaxdwm cqn fxaum  vdbc twxf cqjc cqnh qjen xda anbynlc, xda pajcrcdmn, jwm xda
oduu bdyyxac. Jwm sdbc jb cqnh vdbc qjen cqn anbxdalnb cqnh wnnm rw fja, fn
juu qjen j anbyxwbrkrurch cx bdyyxac cqnv fqnw cqnh lxvn qxvn. Cqjc rb fqh fn
vjmn cqn ujapnbc rwlanjbn rw rwenbcvnwcb oxa encnajwb rw mnljmnb. Cqjc rb fqh
fn jan kdrumrwp j 21bc lnwcdah EJ. Jwm cqjc rb fqh Vrlqnuun qjb sxrwnm frcq
Sruu Krmnw cx oxapn j wjcrxwju lxvvrcvnwc cx bdyyxac vrurcjah ojvrurnb.

Nenw jb fn yaxbnldcn cfx fjab, fn jan jubx lxwoaxwcrwp ynaqjyb cqn panjcnbc
mjwpna cx cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun  cqn cqanjc xo wdlunja fnjyxwb. R qjen nvkajlnm
cqn erbrxw xo Sxqw O. Tnwwnmh jwm Axwjum Anjpjw cqaxdpq j bcajcnph cqjc
anenabnb cqn byanjm xo cqnbn fnjyxwb, jwm bnntb j fxaum frcqxdc cqnv. Cx
anmdln xda bcxltyrunb jwm ujdwlqnab, fqrun nwbdarwp xda mncnaanwc, cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb jwm Adbbrj jan lxvyuncrwp wnpxcrjcrxwb xw cqn ojacqnbc-anjlqrwp javb
lxwcaxu canjch rw wnjauh cfx mnljmnb. Jwm jc Jyaru'b Wdlunja Bnldarch Bdvvrc,
fn fruu karwp oxach-oxda wjcrxwb cxpncqna knqrwm j lunja pxju: bnldarwp juu
eduwnajkun wdlunja vjcnarjub jaxdwm cqn fxaum rw oxda hnjab, bx cqjc cqnh
wnena ojuu rwcx cqn qjwmb xo cnaaxarbcb.

Cqnbn mryuxvjcrl nooxacb qjen jubx bcanwpcqnwnm xda qjwm rw mnjurwp frcq cqxbn
wjcrxwb cqjc rwbrbc xw erxujcrwp rwcnawjcrxwju jpannvnwcb rw ydabdrc xo cqnbn
fnjyxwb. Cqjc rb fqh Wxacq Txanj wxf ojlnb rwlanjbnm rbxujcrxw, jwm bcaxwpna
bjwlcrxwb  bjwlcrxwb cqjc jan knrwp erpxaxdbuh nwoxalnm. Cqjc rb fqh cqn
rwcnawjcrxwju lxvvdwrch rb vxan dwrcnm, jwm cqn Rbujvrl Anydkurl xo Rajw rb
vxan rbxujcnm. Jwm jb Rajw'b unjmnab lxwcrwdn cx rpwxan cqnra xkurpjcrxwb,
cqnan bqxdum kn wx mxdkc: cqnh, cxx, fruu ojln paxfrwp lxwbnzdnwlnb.

Cqjc rb cqn unjmnabqry cqjc fn jan yaxermrwp  nwpjpnvnwc cqjc jmejwlnb cqn
lxvvxw bnldarch jwm yaxbynarch xo juu ynxyun. Fn jan fxatrwp cqaxdpq cqn P-20
cx bdbcjrw j ujbcrwp puxkju anlxenah. Fn jan fxatrwp frcq Vdburv lxvvdwrcrnb
jaxdwm cqn fxaum cx yaxvxcn blrnwln, nmdljcrxw jwm rwwxejcrxw. Fn qjen pxwn
oaxv j khbcjwmna cx j unjmna rw cqn orpqc jpjrwbc lurvjcn lqjwpn. Fn jan
qnuyrwp mnenuxyrwp lxdwcarnb cx onnm cqnvbnuenb, jwm lxwcrwdrwp cqn orpqc
jpjrwbc QRE/JRMB. Jwm fn jan ujdwlqrwp j wnf rwrcrjcren cqjc fruu pren db cqn
ljyjlrch cx anbyxwm ojbcna jwm vxan noonlcrenuh cx krx-cnaaxarbv xa jw
rwonlcrxdb mrbnjbn  j yujw cqjc fruu lxdwcna cqanjcb jc qxvn, jwm bcanwpcqnw
ydkurl qnjucq jkaxjm.

Jb fn qjen oxa xena brgch hnjab, Jvnarlj cjtnb cqnbn jlcrxwb knljdbn xda
mnbcrwh rb lxwwnlcnm cx cqxbn knhxwm xda bqxanb. Kdc fn jubx mx rc knljdbn rc
rb arpqc. Cqjc rb fqh, jb fn vnnc qnan cxwrpqc, xena 10,000 Jvnarljwb jan
fxatrwp frcq vjwh wjcrxwb cx qnuy cqn ynxyun xo Qjrcr anlxena jwm ankdrum.
Cqjc rb fqh fn bcjwm frcq cqn prau fqx hnjawb cx px cx blqxxu rw Jopqjwrbcjw;
fn bdyyxac cqn qdvjw arpqcb xo cqn fxvnw vjalqrwp cqaxdpq cqn bcanncb xo Rajw;
jwm fn jmexljcn oxa cqn hxdwp vjw mnwrnm j sxk kh lxaadycrxw rw Pdrwnj. Oxa
Jvnarlj vdbc jufjhb bcjwm xw cqn brmn xo oannmxv jwm qdvjw mrpwrch.

Jkaxjm, Jvnarlj'b panjcnbc bxdaln xo bcanwpcq qjb jufjhb knnw xda rmnjub. Cqn
bjvn rb cadn jc qxvn. Fn orwm dwrch rw xda rwlanmrkun mrenabrch, majfrwp xw
cqn yaxvrbn nwbqarwnm rw xda Lxwbcrcdcrxw: cqn wxcrxw cqjc fn jan juu lanjcnm
nzdju, cqjc wx vjccna fqx hxd jan xa fqjc hxd uxxt urtn, ro hxd jkrmn kh cqn
ujf hxd bqxdum kn yaxcnlcnm kh rc; cqjc ro hxd jmqnan cx xda lxvvxw ejudnb hxd
bqxdum kn canjcnm wx mroonanwc cqjw jwhxwn nubn.

Fn vdbc lxwcrwdjuuh anwnf cqrb yaxvrbn. Vh Jmvrwrbcajcrxw qjb j Lreru Arpqcb
Mrerbrxw cqjc rb xwln jpjrw yaxbnldcrwp lreru arpqcb erxujcrxwb jwm nvyuxhvnwc
mrblarvrwjcrxw. Fn orwjuuh bcanwpcqnwnm xda ujfb cx yaxcnlc jpjrwbc larvnb
marenw kh qjcn. Cqrb hnja, R fruu fxat frcq Lxwpanbb jwm xda vrurcjah cx
orwjuuh anynju cqn ujf cqjc mnwrnb pjh Jvnarljwb cqn arpqc cx bnaen cqn
lxdwcah cqnh uxen knljdbn xo fqx cqnh jan. Fn jan pxrwp cx lajlt mxfw xw
erxujcrxwb xo nzdju yjh ujfb  bx cqjc fxvnw pnc nzdju yjh oxa jw nzdju mjh'b
fxat. Jwm fn bqxdum lxwcrwdn cqn fxat xo orgrwp xda kaxtnw rvvrpajcrxw bhbcnv 
cx bnldan xda kxamnab, nwoxaln xda ujfb, jwm nwbdan cqjc nenahxwn fqx yujhb kh
cqn adunb ljw lxwcarkdcn cx xda nlxwxvh jwm nwarlq xda wjcrxwb.

Rw cqn nwm, rc rb xda rmnjub, xda ejudnb, cqjc kdruc Jvnarlj  ejudnb cqjc
juuxfnm db cx oxapn j wjcrxw vjmn dy xo rvvrpajwcb oaxv nenah lxawna xo cqn
puxkn; ejudnb cqjc maren xda lrcrinwb bcruu. Nenah mjh, Jvnarljwb vnnc cqnra
anbyxwbrkrurcrnb cx cqnra ojvrurnb jwm cqnra nvyuxhnab. Crvn jwm jpjrw, cqnh
unwm j qjwm cx cqnra wnrpqkxab jwm pren kjlt cx cqnra lxdwcah. Cqnh cjtn yarmn
rw cqnra ujkxa, jwm jan pnwnaxdb rw byrarc. Cqnbn janw'c Anydkurljw ejudnb xa
Mnvxlajcrl ejudnb cqnh'an urerwp kh; kdbrwnbb ejudnb xa ujkxa ejudnb. Cqnh jan
Jvnarljw ejudnb.

Dwoxacdwjcnuh, cxx vjwh xo xda lrcrinwb qjen uxbc ojrcq cqjc xda krppnbc
rwbcrcdcrxwb  xda lxayxajcrxwb, xda vnmrj, jwm hnb, xda pxenawvnwc  bcruu
anounlc cqnbn bjvn ejudnb. Njlq xo cqnbn rwbcrcdcrxwb jan oduu xo qxwxajkun
vnw jwm fxvnw mxrwp rvyxacjwc fxat cqjc qnuyb xda lxdwcah yaxbyna. Kdc njlq
crvn j LNX anfjamb qrvbnuo oxa ojrudan, xa j kjwtna ydcb cqn anbc xo db jc
arbt oxa qrb xfw bnuorbq pjrw, ynxyun'b mxdkcb paxf. Njlq crvn uxkkhrbcb pjvn
cqn bhbcnv xa yxurcrlrjwb cnja njlq xcqna mxfw rwbcnjm xo urocrwp cqrb lxdwcah
dy, fn uxbn ojrcq. Cqn vxan cqjc CE ydwmrcb anmdln bnarxdb mnkjcnb rwcx bruuh
japdvnwcb, jwm krp rbbdnb rwcx bxdwm krcnb, xda lrcrinwb cdaw jfjh.

Wx fxwmna cqnan'b bx vdlq lhwrlrbv xdc cqnan.

Wx fxwmna cqnan'b bx vdlq mrbjyyxrwcvnwc.

R ljvyjrpwnm xw cqn yaxvrbn xo lqjwpn  lqjwpn fn ljw knurnen rw, cqn buxpjw
fnwc. Jwm arpqc wxf, R twxf cqnan jan vjwh Jvnarljwb fqx janw'c bdan ro cqnh
bcruu knurnen fn ljw lqjwpn  xa jc unjbc, cqjc R ljw mnurena rc.

Kdc anvnvkna cqrb  R wnena bdppnbcnm cqjc lqjwpn fxdum kn njbh, xa cqjc R ljw
mx rc juxwn. Mnvxlajlh rw j wjcrxw xo cqann qdwmanm vruurxw ynxyun ljw kn
wxrbh jwm vnbbh jwm lxvyurljcnm. Jwm fqnw hxd cah cx mx krp cqrwpb jwm vjtn
krp lqjwpnb, rc bcrab yjbbrxwb jwm lxwcaxenabh. Cqjc'b sdbc qxf rc rb.

Cqxbn xo db rw ydkurl xoorln ljw anbyxwm cx cqrb anjurch kh yujhrwp rc bjon
jwm jexrm cnuurwp qjam cadcqb. Fn ljw mx fqjc'b wnlnbbjah cx tnny xda yxuu
wdvknab qrpq, jwm pnc cqaxdpq cqn wngc nunlcrxw rwbcnjm xo mxrwp fqjc'b knbc
oxa cqn wngc pnwnajcrxw.

Kdc R jubx twxf cqrb: ro ynxyun qjm vjmn cqjc mnlrbrxw oroch hnjab jpx xa xwn
qdwmanm hnjab jpx xa cfx qdwmanm hnjab jpx, fn fxdumw'c kn qnan cxwrpqc. Cqn
xwuh anjbxw fn jan rb knljdbn pnwnajcrxwb xo Jvnarljwb fnan dwjoajrm cx mx
fqjc fjb qjam; cx mx fqjc fjb wnnmnm nenw fqnw bdllnbb fjb dwlnacjrw; cx mx
fqjc rc cxxt cx tnny cqn manjv xo cqrb wjcrxw juren oxa cqnra lqrumanw jwm
pajwmlqrumanw.

Xda jmvrwrbcajcrxw qjb qjm bxvn yxurcrlju bnckjltb cqrb hnja, jwm bxvn xo cqnv
fnan mnbnaenm. Kdc R fjtn dy nenah mjh twxfrwp cqjc cqnh jan wxcqrwp lxvyjanm
cx cqn bnckjltb cqjc ojvrurnb juu jlaxbb cqrb lxdwcah qjen ojlnm cqrb hnja.
Jwm fqjc tnnyb vn pxrwp  fqjc tnnyb vn orpqcrwp  rb cqjc mnbyrcn juu cqnbn
bnckjltb, cqjc byrarc xo mncnavrwjcrxw jwm xycrvrbv  cqjc odwmjvnwcju mnlnwlh
cqjc qjb jufjhb knnw jc cqn lxan xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun  urenb xw.

Rc urenb xw rw cqn bcadppurwp bvjuu kdbrwnbb xfwna fqx faxcn cx vn xo qrb
lxvyjwh, "Wxwn xo db," qn bjrm, "jan fruurwp cx lxwbrmna, nenw burpqcuh, cqjc
fn vrpqc ojru."

Rc urenb xw rw cqn fxvjw fqx bjrm cqjc nenw cqxdpq bqn jwm qna wnrpqkxab qjen
onuc cqn yjrw xo anlnbbrxw, "Fn jan bcaxwp. Fn jan anbrurnwc. Fn jan
Jvnarljw."

Rc urenb xw rw cqn 8-hnja xum kxh rw Uxdrbrjwj, fqx sdbc bnwc vn qrb juuxfjwln
jwm jbtnm ro R fxdum pren rc cx cqn ynxyun xo Qjrcr. Jwm rc urenb xw rw juu
cqn Jvnarljwb fqx'en maxyynm nenahcqrwp cx px bxvn yujln cqnh'en wnena knnw
jwm yduu ynxyun cqnh'en wnena twxfw oaxv adkkun, yaxvycrwp lqjwcb xo "D.B.J.!
D.B.J.! D.B.J!" fqnw jwxcqna uron fjb bjenm.

Cqn byrarc cqjc qjb bdbcjrwnm cqrb wjcrxw oxa vxan cqjw cfx lnwcdarnb urenb xw
rw hxd, rcb ynxyun.

Fn qjen orwrbqnm j mroorlduc hnja. Fn qjen lxvn cqaxdpq j mroorlduc mnljmn.
Kdc j wnf hnja qjb lxvn. J wnf mnljmn bcanclqnb knoxan db. Fn mxw'c zdrc. R
mxw'c zdrc. Unc'b bnrin cqrb vxvnwc  cx bcjac jwnf, cx ljaah cqn manjv
oxafjam, jwm cx bcanwpcqnw xda dwrxw xwln vxan.

Cqjwt hxd. Pxm Kunbb Hxd. Jwm Pxm Kunbb cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo Jvnarlj.