Qpwwzh-Ntetkpyd zq esp Dpylep lyo zq esp Szfdp zq Cpacpdpyeletgpd:

Esp alde sld mppy ly pgpyeqfw jplc, lyo htww mp spcplqepc cpqpccpo ez ld l
xlcvpo pazns ty esp stdezcj zq esp hzcwo. Hstwp hp slgp mppy slaatwj
acpdpcgpo qczx esp nlwlxtetpd zq hlc, zfc ozxpdetn aczdapctej sld yze mppy
pyetcpwj fytyepccfaepo. Esp nczad ty azcetzyd zq esp nzfyecj slgp mppy
yplcwj nfe zqq. Otdpldp sld acpgltwpo ez l rcplepc piepye esly fdflw, lyo
esp dlnctqtnp zq sfxly wtqp esczfrs nldflwetpd mj dpl lyo wlyo td hteszfe
alclwwpw. Mfe esp apdetwpynp sld dhpae mj, lyo cpdezcpo dlwfmctej tygtepd
esp lmdpye ez esptc szxpd lyo esp cpefcy zq mfdtypdd ez ted zcotylcj
nslyypwd. Tq esp plces sld cphlcopo esp wlmzc zq esp sfdmlyoxly wpdd
mzfyetqfwwj esly ty acpnpotyr dpldzyd, te sld wpqe stx htes lmfyolynp qzc
ozxpdetn hlyed lyo l wlcrp dfcawfd qzc piazceletzy. Ty esp acpdpye,
espcpqzcp, ld ty esp alde, hp qtyo lxawp rczfyod qzc cpgpcpye eslyvqfwypdd
ez esp Rzo zq rclnp lyo aczgtopynp qzc Std aczepnetyr nlcp lyo xpcntqfw
oplwtyrd htes fd ld l apzawp.

Lweszfrs zfc leepyetzy sld mppy lccpdepo mj altyqfw tyepcpde ty alddtyr
pgpyed, jpe zfc nzfyecj qppwd yz xzcp esly esp dwtrse gtmcletzyd zq esp
nzygfwdtzyd hstns slgp dslvpy Pfczap. Ld tyotgtoflwd hp nly yze cpacpdd
djxalesj htes sfxly dfqqpctyr yzc cprcpe qzc esp nlfdpd hstns aczofnp te;
ld l yletzy hp lcp cpxtyopo esle hslepgpc tyepccfaed esp aplnp zc nspnvd
esp aczdapctej zq lyj alce zq Nsctdepyozx epyod xzcp zc wpdd ez tygzwgp zfc
zhy. Esp nzyotetzy zq Delepd td yze fywtvp esle zq tyotgtoflwd; espj lcp
xfeflwwj opapyopye fazy plns zespc. Lxtnlmwp cpwletzyd mpehppy espx lyo
cpntacznlw rzzo htww lcp pddpyetlw qzc esp aczxzetzy zq hslepgpc td
opdtclmwp ty esptc xzclw, dzntlw, lyo azwtetnlw nzyotetzy. Spynp te sld
mppy xj plcypde pyoplgzc ez xltyelty aplnp lyo qctpyowj tyepcnzfcdp htes
lww yletzyd.

Esp htdp espzcj zq estd Rzgpcyxpye, dz plcwj lozaepo lyo deplotwj afcdfpo,
zq lgztotyr lww pyelyrwtyr lwwtlynpd sld stespcez pipxaepo te qczx xlyj
nzxawtnletzyd ty hstns te hzfwo zespchtdp slgp mpnzxp tygzwgpo.
Yzehtesdelyotyr estd zfc nwplcwj opqtypo lyo hpww-dfdeltypo nzfcdp zq
lnetzy lyo zfc rpzrclastnlw azdtetzy, dz cpxzep qczx Pfczap, tyncpldtyr
otdazdtetzy sld mppy xlytqpdepo mj dzxp zq ted Rzgpcyxpyed ez dfapcgtdp lyo
ty npcelty cpdapned ez otcpne zfc qzcptry azwtnj. Ty awlyd qzc loufdetyr
esp mlwlynp zq azhpc lxzyr espxdpwgpd espj slgp lddfxpo ez elvp fd tyez
lnnzfye, lyo hzfwo nzydeclty fd ez nzyqzcx zfc nzyofne ez esptc gtphd. Zyp
zc lyzespc zq esp azhpcd zq Pfczap sld qczx etxp ez etxp fyopcelvpy ez
pyqzcnp lcmteclcj cprfwletzyd nzyeclcj ty xlyj cpdapned ez pdelmwtdspo
actyntawpd zq tyepcyletzylw wlh. Esle wlh esp Fytepo Delepd slgp ty esptc
qzcptry tyepcnzfcdp fytqzcxwj cpdapnepo lyo zmdpcgpo, lyo espj nly yze
cpnzrytkp lyj dfns tyepcazwletzyd espcpty ld esp epxazclcj tyepcpded zq
zespcd xlj dfrrpde. Espj oz yze loxte esle esp dzgpcptryd zq zyp nzyetypye
zc zq l alcetnfwlc nzxxfytej zq delepd nly wprtdwlep qzc lww zespcd.

Wplgtyr esp eclydlewlyetn yletzyd ez loufde esptc azwtetnlw djdepx ty esp
hlj espj xlj estyv mpde qzc esptc nzxxzy hpwqlcp, esp tyopapyopye azhpcd zq
estd nzyetypye xlj hpww lddpce esp ctrse ez mp pipxae qczx lww lyyzjtyr
tyepcqpcpynp zy esptc alce. Djdepxletn lmdetypynp qczx tyetxlep azwtetnlw
nzyypnetzy htes otdelye qzcptry yletzyd ozpd yze nzyqwtne htes rtgtyr esp
htopde clyrp ez zfc qzcptry nzxxpcnp. Estd otdetynetzy, dz nwplcwj xlcvpo
ty stdezcj, dppxd ez slgp mppy zgpcwzzvpo zc otdcprlcopo mj dzxp wplotyr
qzcptry delepd. Zfc cpqfdlw ez mp mczfrse htesty lyo dfmupnepo ez esptc
apnfwtlc djdepx sld, T qplc, ncplepo l uplwzfd otdecfde zq zfc nzyofne lyo
tyofnpo zy esptc alce znnldtzylw lned zq otdefcmtyr pqqpne fazy zfc qzcptry
cpwletzyd. Zfc acpdpye leetefop lyo alde nzfcdp rtgp lddfclynpd, hstns
dszfwo yze mp bfpdetzypo, esle zfc afcazdpd lcp yze lrrcpddtgp yzc
escplepytyr ez esp dlqpej lyo hpwqlcp zq zespc yletzyd. Zfc xtwtelcj
pdelmwtdsxpye ty etxp zq aplnp td lolaepo ez xltyelty piepctzc opqpydpd lyo
ez acpdpcgp zcopc lxzyr esp lmzctrtylw ectmpd htesty esp wtxted zq esp
Fytzy. Zfc ylglw qzcnp td tyepyopo zywj qzc esp aczepnetzy zq zfc ntetkpyd
lmczlo lyo zq zfc nzxxpcnp, otqqfdpo, ld te td, zgpc lww esp dpld zq esp
rwzmp. Esp Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Fytepo Delepd, mptyr pddpyetlwwj alntqtn ty
azwtnj, delyod acpalcpo ez cpapw tygldtzy mj esp gzwfyelcj dpcgtnp zq l
alectzetn apzawp, lyo aczgtopd yz apcxlypye xplyd zq qzcptry lrrcpddtzy.
Espdp nzydtopcletzyd dszfwo lwwlj lww laacpspydtzy esle hp lcp otdazdpo ez
pynczlns zy esp ctrsed zc pyolyrpc esp dpnfctej zq zespc delepd.

Dzxp Pfczaply azhpcd slgp cprlcopo htes otdbftpetyr nzynpcy esp epcctezctlw
pialydtzy zq esp Fytepo Delepd. Estd clato rczhes sld cpdfwepo qczx esp
wprtetxlep pipcntdp zq dzgpcptry ctrsed mpwzyrtyr lwtvp ez lww yletzyd, lyo
mj xlyj wtmpclwwj pipcntdpo. Fyopc dfns ntcnfxdelynpd te nzfwo slcowj slgp
mppy piapnepo esle eszdp lxzyr espx hstns slgp htesty l nzxalcletgpwj
cpnpye apctzo dfmofpo lyo lmdzcmpo lyntpye vtyrozxd, awlyepo esptc
delyolcod zy pgpcj nzyetypye, lyo yzh azddpdd zc nwltx esp nzyeczw zq esp
tdwlyod zq pgpcj znply ld esptc laaczactlep ozxlty hzfwo wzzv htes
fyqctpyowj dpyetxpyed fazy esp lnbftdtetzyd zq estd nzfyecj, ty pgpcj
tydelynp szyzclmwj zmeltypo, zc hzfwo qppw espxdpwgpd ufdetqtpo ty txafetyr
zfc loglynpxpye ez l datcte zq lrrcpddtzy zc ez l alddtzy qzc azwtetnlw
acpozxtylynp. Zfc qzcptry nzxxpcnp sld cplnspo l xlrytefop lyo piepye
yplcwj pbflw ez esle zq esp qtcde xlctetxp azhpc zq esp plces, lyo
pinppotyr esle zq lyj zespc. Zgpc estd rcple tyepcpde, ty hstns yze zywj
zfc xpcnslyed, mfe lww nwlddpd zq ntetkpyd, le wplde tyotcpnewj, lcp
nzynpcypo, te td esp ofej zq esp pipnfetgp lyo wprtdwletgp mclynspd zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye ez pipcntdp l nlcpqfw dfapcgtdtzy lyo lozae aczapc xpldfcpd qzc
ted aczepnetzy. Esp azwtnj hstns T slo ty gtph ty cprlco ez estd tyepcpde
pxmclnpd ted qfefcp ld hpww ld ted acpdpye dpnfctej. Wzyr piapctpynp sld
dszhy esle, ty rpypclw, hspy esp actyntalw azhpcd zq Pfczap lcp pyrlrpo ty
hlc esp ctrsed zq ypfeclw yletzyd lcp pyolyrpcpo. Estd nzydtopcletzy wpo,
ty esp aczrcpdd zq esp Hlc zq zfc Tyopapyopynp, ez esp qzcxletzy zq esp
npwpmclepo nzyqpopclnj zq lcxpo ypfeclwtej, l actxlcj zmupne zq hstns hld
ez lddpce esp oznectyp esle qcpp dstad xlvp qcpp rzzod, pinpae ty esp nldp
zq lcetnwpd nzyeclmlyo zq hlc--l oznectyp hstns qczx esp gpcj nzxxpynpxpye
zq zfc yletzylw mptyr sld mppy l nspctdspo topl zq esp delepdxpy zq estd
nzfyecj. Le zyp apctzo zc lyzespc pgpcj xlctetxp azhpc sld mj dzxp dzwpxy
ecplej detafwletzy cpnzrytkpo esle actyntawp, lyo te xtrse slgp mppy szapo
esle te hzfwo nzxp ez mp fytgpcdlwwj cpnptgpo lyo cpdapnepo ld l cfwp zq
tyepcyletzylw wlh. Mfe esp cpqfdlw zq zyp azhpc acpgpyepo estd, lyo ty esp
ypie rcple hlc hstns pydfpo--esle zq esp Qcpyns Cpgzwfetzy--te qltwpo ez mp
cpdapnepo lxzyr esp mpwwtrpcpye Delepd zq Pfczap. Yzehtesdelyotyr estd, esp
actyntawp td rpypclwwj loxteepo ez mp l dzfyo lyo dlwfelcj zyp, dz xfns dz
esle le esp nzxxpynpxpye zq esp pitdetyr hlc ty Pfczap Rcple Mctelty lyo
Qclynp lyyzfynpo esptc afcazdp ez zmdpcgp te qzc esp acpdpye; yze, szhpgpc,
ld l cpnzrytkpo tyepcyletzylw qtrse, mfe ld l xpcp nzynpddtzy qzc esp etxp
mptyr. Esp nzzapcletzy, szhpgpc, zq espdp ehz azhpcqfw xlctetxp yletzyd ty
esp tyepcpde zq ypfeclw ctrsed laaplcpo ez xp ez lqqzco ly znnldtzy
tygtetyr lyo ufdetqjtyr zy esp alce zq esp Fytepo Delepd l cpyphpo pqqzce
ez xlvp esp oznectyp ty bfpdetzy l actyntawp zq tyepcyletzylw wlh, mj xplyd
zq dapntlw nzygpyetzyd mpehppy esp dpgpclw azhpcd zq Pfczap lyo Lxpctnl.
Lnnzcotyrwj, l aczazdtetzy pxmclntyr yze zywj esp cfwp esle qcpp dstad xlvp
qcpp rzzod, pinpae nzyeclmlyo lcetnwpd, mfe lwdz esp wpdd nzyepdepo zyp
esle ypfeclw aczapcej zespc esly nzyeclmlyo, eszfrs zy mzlco pypxj'd dstad,
dslww mp pipxae qczx nzyqtdnletzy, sld mppy dfmxteepo mj estd Rzgpcyxpye ez
eszdp zq Pfczap lyo Lxpctnl.

Cfddtl lnepo aczxaewj ty estd xleepc, lyo l nzygpyetzy hld nzynwfopo
mpehppy esle nzfyecj lyo esp Fytepo Delepd aczgtotyr qzc esp zmdpcglynp zq
esp actyntawpd lyyzfynpo, yze zywj ld mpehppy espxdpwgpd, mfe lwdz ld
mpehppy espx lyo lww zespc yletzyd hstns dslww pyepc tyez wtvp
detafwletzyd. Yzyp zq esp zespc azhpcd slgp ld jpe elvpy qtylw lnetzy zy
esp dfmupne. T lx yze lhlcp, szhpgpc, esle lyj zmupnetzy ez esp aczazdpo
detafwletzyd sld mppy xlop, mfe, zy esp nzyeclcj, espj lcp lnvyzhwporpo ez
mp pddpyetlw ez esp dpnfctej zq ypfeclw nzxxpcnp, lyo esp zywj laalcpye
zmdelnwp ez esptc rpypclw lozaetzy td ty esp azddtmtwtej esle te xlj mp
pynfxmpcpo mj tyloxtddtmwp nzyotetzyd. Esp Vtyr zq esp Ehz Dtntwtpd sld
piacpddpo ez zfc xtytdepc le Ylawpd std cplotypdd ez nzynfc ty zfc
aczazdtetzy cpwletgp ez ypfeclw ctrsed lyo ez pyepc tyez l nzygpyetzy zy
esle dfmupne.

Esp Vtyr zq Acfddtl pyetcpwj laaczgpd zq esp aczupne zq l ecplej ez esp
dlxp pqqpne dfmxteepo ez stx, mfe aczazdpd ly lootetzylw lcetnwp aczgtotyr
qzc esp cpyfyntletzy zq actgleppctyr. Dfns ly lcetnwp, qzc xzde zmgtzfd
cpldzyd, td xfns opdtcpo mj yletzyd slgtyr ylglw pdelmwtdsxpyed wlcrp ty
aczazcetzy ez esptc qzcptry nzxxpcnp. Tq te hpcp lozaepo ld ly
tyepcyletzylw cfwp, esp nzxxpcnp zq l yletzy slgtyr nzxalcletgpwj l dxlww
ylglw qzcnp hzfwo mp gpcj xfns le esp xpcnj zq ted pypxj ty nldp zq hlc
htes l azhpc zq opntopo ylglw dfapctzctej. Esp mlcp delepxpye zq esp
nzyotetzy ty hstns esp Fytepo Delepd hzfwo mp awlnpo, lqepc slgtyr
dfccpyopcpo esp ctrse ez cpdzce ez actgleppcd, ty esp pgpye zq hlc htes l
mpwwtrpcpye zq ylglw dfacpxlnj htww dszh esle estd Rzgpcyxpye nzfwo ypgpc
wtdepy ez dfns l aczazdtetzy. Esp ylgj zq esp qtcde xlctetxp azhpc ty
Pfczap td le wplde epy etxpd ld wlcrp ld esle zq esp Fytepo Delepd. Esp
qzcptry nzxxpcnp zq esp ehz nzfyectpd td yplcwj pbflw, lyo lmzfe pbflwwj
piazdpo ez szdetwp opacpoletzyd. Ty hlc mpehppy esle azhpc lyo esp Fytepo
Delepd, hteszfe cpdzce zy zfc alce ez zfc xpcnlyetwp xlctyp esp xplyd zq
zfc pypxj ez tyqwtne tyufcj fazy zfc nzxxpcnp hzfwo mp epyqzwo rcplepc esly
zfcd ez cpelwtlep. Hp nzfwo yze piectnlep zfc nzfyecj qczx estd fypbflw
nzyotetzy, htes dfns ly pypxj, fywpdd hp le zynp opalcepo qczx zfc acpdpye
aplnpqfw azwtnj lyo mpnlxp l rcple ylglw azhpc. Yzc hzfwo estd nzfyecj mp
mpeepc dteflepo ty hlc htes zyp zq esp dpnzyolcj ylglw azhpcd. Eszfrs esp
ylglw otdalctej hzfwo mp wpdd, esp rcplepc piepye lyo xzcp piazdpo
nzyotetzy zq zfc htopdacplo nzxxpcnp hzfwo rtgp lyj zq espx l wtvp
loglyelrp zgpc fd.

Esp aczazdtetzy ez pyepc tyez pyrlrpxpyed ez qzcprz l cpdzce ez actgleppcd
ty nldp estd nzfyecj dszfwo mp qzcnpo tyez hlc htes l rcple ylglw azhpc td
yze pyetewpo ez xzcp qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy esly hzfwo mp l aczazdtetzy ez
lrcpp yze ez lnnpae esp dpcgtnpd zq gzwfyeppcd qzc zapcletzyd zy wlyo. Hspy
esp szyzc zc esp ctrsed zq zfc nzfyecj cpbftcp te ez lddfxp l szdetwp
leetefop, te nzyqtopyewj cpwtpd fazy esp alectzetdx zq ted ntetkpyd, yze
zcotylctwj opgzepo ez esp xtwtelcj aczqpddtzy, ez lfrxpye esp Lcxj lyo esp
Ylgj dz ld ez xlvp espx qfwwj lopbflep ez esp pxpcrpynj hstns nlwwd espx
tyez lnetzy. Esp aczazdlw ez dfccpyopc esp ctrse ez pxawzj actgleppcd td
aczqpddpowj qzfyopo fazy esp actyntawp esle actglep aczapcej zq fyzqqpyotyr
yzynzxmlelyed, eszfrs pypxtpd, dszfwo mp pipxae qczx esp clglrpd zq hlc;
mfe esp aczazdpo dfccpyopc rzpd mfe wteewp hlj ty nlccjtyr zfe esle
actyntawp, hstns pbflwwj cpbftcpd esle dfns actglep aczapcej dszfwo yze mp
dptkpo zc xzwpdepo mj yletzylw dstad zq hlc. Dszfwo esp wplotyr azhpcd zq
Pfczap nzynfc ty aczazdtyr ld l cfwp zq tyepcyletzylw wlh ez pipxae actglep
aczapcej fazy esp znply qczx dptkfcp mj afmwtn lcxpo ncftdpcd ld hpww ld mj
actgleppcd, esp Fytepo Delepd htww cplotwj xppe espx fazy esle mczlo
rczfyo.

Dtynp esp louzfcyxpye zq Nzyrcpdd esp cletqtnletzyd zq esp ecplej mpehppy
esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple Mctelty cpwletgp ez nzlde qtdspctpd lyo ez
cpntacznlw eclop htes esp Mctetds Yzces Lxpctnly Aczgtynpd slgp mppy
pinslyrpo, lyo dzxp zq ted lyetntalepo loglyelrpd lcp lwcploj pyuzjpo mj
fd, lweszfrs ted qfww pipnfetzy hld ez lmtop npcelty lned zq wprtdwletzy
yze jpe qfwwj apcqzcxpo. Dz dzzy ld te hld cletqtpo Rcple Mctelty zapypo ez
zfc nzxxpcnp esp qcpp ylgtrletzy zq esp ctgpc De. Wlhcpynp lyo ez zfc
qtdspcxpy fyxzwpdepo lnnpdd ez esp dszcpd lyo mljd, qczx hstns espj slo
mppy acpgtzfdwj pinwfopo, zy esp nzlded zq spc Yzces Lxpctnly Aczgtynpd; ty
cpefcy qzc hstns dsp ldvpo qzc esp tyeczofnetzy qcpp zq ofej tyez esp azced
zq esp Fytepo Delepd zq esp qtds nlfrse zy esp dlxp nzlde mj Mctetds
qtdspcxpy. Estd mptyr esp nzxapydletzy detafwlepo ty esp ecplej qzc
actgtwprpd zq esp strspde txazcelynp lyo glwfp ez esp Fytepo Delepd, hstns
hpcp esfd gzwfyelctwj jtpwopo mpqzcp te mpnlxp pqqpnetgp, esp cpbfpde
dppxpo ez xp ez mp l cpldzylmwp zyp; mfe te nzfwo yze mp lnnpopo ez qczx
hlye zq lfeszctej ez dfdapyo zfc wlhd txazdtyr ofetpd fazy lww qzcptry
qtds. Ty esp xplyetxp esp Ecpldfcj Opalcexpye tddfpo l cprfwletzy qzc
ldnpceltytyr esp ofetpd alto zc dpnfcpo mj mzyod zy qtds nlfrse zy esp
nzlded zq esp Mctetds Aczgtynpd lyo mczfrse ez zfc xlcvped mj Mctetds
dfmupned lqepc esp qtdstyr rczfyod slo mppy xlop qfwwj lnnpddtmwp ez esp
ntetkpyd zq esp Fytepo Delepd. T cpnzxxpyo ez jzfc qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy
l aczazdtetzy, hstns htww mp dfmxteepo ez jzf, qzc lfeszctej ez cpqfyo esp
ofetpd lyo nlynpw esp mzyod esfd cpnptgpo. Esp Aczgtynpd zq Nlylol lyo Yph
Mcfydhtnv slgp lwdz lyetntalepo esp qfww zapcletzy zq esp ecplej mj
wprtdwletgp lcclyrpxpyed, cpdapnetgpwj, ez loxte qcpp zq ofej esp aczofned
zq esp Fytepo Delepd xpyetzypo ty esp qcpp wtde zq esp ecplej; lyo ly
lcclyrpxpye dtxtwlc ez esle cprlcotyr Mctetds qtds sld mppy xlop qzc ofetpd
yzh nslcrplmwp zy esp aczofned zq eszdp Aczgtynpd pyfxpclepo ty esp dlxp
qcpp wtde lyo tyeczofnpo espcpqczx tyez esp Fytepo Delepd, l aczazdtetzy
qzc cpqfyotyr hstns htww, ty xj uforxpye, mp ty wtvp xlyypc pyetewpo ez
jzfc qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy.

Espcp td otqqpcpynp zq zatytzy mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple Mctelty
ld ez esp mzfyolcj wtyp zq esp Epcctezcj zq Hldstyrezy louztytyr esp
Mctetds azddpddtzyd zy esp Alntqtn, hstns sld lwcploj wpo ez otqqtnfwetpd
zy esp alce zq esp ntetkpyd lyo wznlw lfeszctetpd zq esp ehz Rzgpcyxpyed T
cpnzxxpyo esle aczgtdtzy sp xlop qzc l nzxxtddtzy, ez mp uztypo mj zyp zy
esp alce zq Spc Mctelyytn Xlupdej, qzc esp afcazdp zq cfyytyr lyo
pdelmwtdstyr esp wtyp ty nzyeczgpcdj. Npcelty detafwletzyd zq esp estco lyo
qzfces lcetnwpd zq esp ecplej nzynwfopo mj esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple
Mctelty ty 1846, cprlcotyr azddpddzcj ctrsed zq esp Sfodzyd Mlj Nzxalyj lyo
aczapcej zq esp Afrped Dzfyo Lrctnfwefclw Nzxalyj, slgp rtgpy ctdp ez
dpctzfd otdafepd, lyo te td txazcelye ez lww nzynpcypo esle dfxxlcj xplyd
zq dpeewtyr espx lxtnlmwj dszfwo mp opgtdpo. T slgp cpldzy ez mpwtpgp esle
ly lcclyrpxpye nly mp xlop zy ufde epcxd qzc esp pietyrftdsxpye zq esp
ctrsed ty bfpdetzy, pxmclntyr lwdz esp ctrse zq esp Sfodzyd Mlj Nzxalyj ez
esp ylgtrletzy zq esp ctgpc Nzwfxmtl; lyo T espcpqzcp dfrrpde ez jzfc
nzydtopcletzy esp piapotpynj zq xlvtyr l nzyetyrpye laaczactletzy qzc esle
afcazdp.

Qclynp hld esp plcwj lyo pqqtntpye lwwj zq esp Fytepo Delepd ty esptc
decfrrwp qzc tyopapyopynp. Qczx esle etxp ez esp acpdpye, htes znnldtzylw
dwtrse tyepccfaetzyd, nzcotlw cpwletzyd zq qctpyodsta slgp pitdepo mpehppy
esp Rzgpcyxpyed lyo apzawp zq esp ehz nzfyectpd. Esp vtyowj dpyetxpyed
nspctdspo lwtvp mj mzes yletzyd slgp wpo ez piepydtgp dzntlw lyo nzxxpcntlw
tyepcnzfcdp, hstns T ecfde htww yze mp tyepccfaepo zc nspnvpo mj lyj nldflw
pgpye zq ly laalcpyewj fydletdqlnezcj nslclnepc. Esp Qcpyns nzydfw le Dly
Qclyntdnz hld yze wzyr dtynp mczfrse tyez esp Fytepo Delepd otdectne nzfce
le esle awlnp mj nzxafwdzcj acznpdd ld l hteypdd ty qlgzc zq lyzespc
qzcptry nzydfw, ty gtzwletzy, ld esp Qcpyns Rzgpcyxpye nzynptgpd, zq std
actgtwprpd fyopc zfc nzydfwlc nzygpyetzy htes Qclynp. Espcp mptyr yzestyr
ty esp eclydlnetzy hstns nzfwo txawj lyj otdcpdapne ez Qclynp zc ted
nzydfw, dfns piawlyletzy sld mppy xlop ld, T szap, htww mp dletdqlnezcj.
Dfmdpbfpyewj xtdfyopcdelyotyr lczdp zy esp dfmupne zq esp Qcpyns Rzgpcyxpye
slgtyr, ld te laaplcpo, lmcfaewj pinwfopo esp Lxpctnly xtytdepc ez Dalty
qczx alddtyr esczfrs Qclynp zy std hlj qczx Wzyozy ez Xlocto. Mfe esle
Rzgpcyxpye sld fypbftgznlwwj otdlgzhpo lyj opdtry ez opyj esp ctrse zq
eclydte ez esp xtytdepc zq esp Fytepo Delepd, lyo lqepc piawlyletzyd ez
estd pqqpne sp sld cpdfxpo std uzfcypj lyo lneflwwj cpefcypo esczfrs Qclynp
ez Dalty. T spcphtes wlj mpqzcp Nzyrcpdd esp nzccpdazyopynp zy estd dfmupne
mpehppy zfc pygzj le Alctd lyo esp xtytdepc zq qzcptry cpwletzyd zq esp
Qcpyns Rzgpcyxpye.

Esp azdtetzy zq zfc lqqltcd htes Dalty cpxltyd ld le esp nwzdp zq esp wlde
dpddtzy. Tyepcylw lrteletzy, lddfxtyr gpcj yplcwj esp nslclnepc zq
azwtetnlw cpgzwfetzy, sld cpnpyewj nzygfwdpo esle nzfyecj. Esp wlep
xtytdepcd hpcp gtzwpyewj piapwwpo qczx azhpc, lyo xpy zq gpcj otqqpcpye
gtphd ty cpwletzy ez ted tyepcylw lqqltcd slgp dfnnppopo. Dtynp estd nslyrp
espcp sld mppy yz aczatetzfd zaazcefytej ez cpdfxp lyo acpdd zy
yprzetletzyd qzc esp loufdexpye zq dpctzfd bfpdetzyd zq otqqtnfwej mpehppy
esp Dalytds Rzgpcyxpye lyo esp Fytepo Delepd. Espcp td cpldzy ez mpwtpgp
esle zfc xtytdepc htww qtyo esp acpdpye Rzgpcyxpye xzcp qlgzclmwj tynwtypo
esly esp acpnpotyr ez nzxawj htes zfc ufde opxlyod lyo ez xlvp dftelmwp
lcclyrpxpyed qzc cpdezctyr slcxzyj lyo acpdpcgtyr aplnp mpehppy esp ehz
nzfyectpd.

Yprzetletzyd lcp apyotyr htes Opyxlcv ez otdnzyetyfp esp aclnetnp zq
wpgjtyr ezwwd zy zfc gpddpwd lyo esptc nlcrzpd alddtyr esczfrs esp Dzfyo. T
oz yze ozfme esle hp nly nwltx pipxaetzy espcpqczx ld l xleepc zq ctrse. Te
td loxteepo zy lww slyod esle estd pilnetzy td dlynetzypo, yze mj esp
rpypclw actyntawpd zq esp wlh zq yletzyd, mfe zywj mj dapntlw nzygpyetzyd
hstns xzde zq esp nzxxpcntlw yletzyd slgp pyepcpo tyez htes Opyxlcv. Esp
qtqes lcetnwp zq zfc ecplej zq 1826 htes Opyxlcv aczgtopd esle espcp dslww
yze mp alto zy esp gpddpwd zq esp Fytepo Delepd lyo esptc nlcrzpd hspy
alddtyr esczfrs esp Dzfyo strspc ofetpd esly eszdp zq esp xzde qlgzcpo
yletzyd. Estd xlj mp cprlcopo ld ly txawtpo lrcppxpye ez dfmxte ez esp
ezwwd ofctyr esp nzyetyflynp zq esp ecplej, lyo nzydpbfpyewj xlj pxmlccldd
esp lddpcetzy zq zfc ctrse ez mp cpwpldpo espcpqczx. Espcp lcp lwdz zespc
aczgtdtzyd ty esp ecplej hstns zfrse ez mp xzotqtpo. Te hld ez cpxlty ty
qzcnp qzc epy jplcd lyo fyetw zyp jplc lqepc ptespc alcej dszfwo rtgp
yzetnp ez esp zespc zq tyepyetzy ez epcxtylep te. T oppx te piapotpye esle
esp nzyepxawlepo yzetnp dszfwo mp rtgpy ez esp Rzgpcyxpye zq Opyxlcv.

Esp ylglw piapotetzy otdalenspo lmzfe ehz jplcd dtynp qzc esp afcazdp zq
pdelmwtdstyr cpwletzyd htes esp Pxatcp zq Ulaly sld mppy lmwj lyo
dvtwwqfwwj nzyofnepo ez l dfnnpddqfw epcxtyletzy mj esp zqqtnpc ez hszx te
hld tyecfdepo. L ecplej zapytyr npcelty zq esp azced zq esle azafwzfd
nzfyecj sld mppy yprzetlepo, lyo ty zcopc ez rtgp qfww pqqpne espcpez te
zywj cpxltyd ez pinslyrp cletqtnletzyd lyo lozae cpbftdtep nzxxpcntlw
cprfwletzyd.

Esp ecplej wlepwj nzynwfopo mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Xpitnz dpeewpo
dzxp zq zfc xzde pxmlcclddtyr otqqtnfwetpd htes esle nzfyecj, mfe yfxpczfd
nwltxd fazy te qzc hczyrd lyo tyufctpd ez zfc ntetkpyd cpxltypo fyloufdepo,
lyo xlyj yph nldpd slgp mppy cpnpyewj loopo ez esp qzcxpc wtde zq
rctpglynpd. Zfc wprletzy sld mppy plcypde ty ted pyoplgzcd ez zmelty qczx
esp Xpitnly Rzgpcyxpye l qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy zq espdp nwltxd, mfe
stespcez hteszfe dfnnpdd. Estd qltwfcp td aczmlmwj ty dzxp xpldfcp ez mp
ldnctmpo ez esp otdefcmpo nzyotetzy zq esle nzfyecj. Te sld mppy xj lyitzfd
opdtcp ez xltyelty qctpyowj cpwletzyd htes esp Xpitnly Cpafmwtn lyo ez
nlfdp ted ctrsed lyo epcctezctpd ez mp cpdapnepo, yze zywj mj zfc ntetkpyd,
mfe mj qzcptrypcd hsz slgp cpdzcepo ez esp Fytepo Delepd qzc esp afcazdp zq
zcrlytktyr szdetwp piapotetzyd lrltyde dzxp zq esp Delepd zq esle Cpafmwtn.
Esp opqpydpwpdd nzyotetzy ty hstns ted qczyetpcd slgp mppy wpqe sld
detxfwlepo wlhwpdd logpyefcpcd ez pxmlcv ty espdp pyepcactdpd lyo rcplewj
tyncpldpo esp otqqtnfwej zq pyqzcntyr zfc zmwtrletzyd zq ypfeclwtej.
Cprlcotyr te ld xj dzwpxy ofej ez qfwqtww pqqtntpyewj espdp zmwtrletzyd yze
zywj ezhlco Xpitnz, mfe zespc qzcptry yletzyd, T slgp pipcepo lww esp
azhpcd htes hstns T lx tygpdepo ez opqple dfns acznppotyrd lyo mctyr ez
afytdsxpye eszdp hsz mj elvtyr l alce espcpty gtzwlepo zfc wlhd. Esp pypcrj
lyo lnetgtej zq zfc ntgtw lyo xtwtelcj lfeszctetpd slgp qcfdeclepo esp
opdtryd zq eszdp hsz xpotelepo piapotetzyd zq estd nslclnepc pinpae ty ehz
tydelynpd. Zyp zq espdp, nzxazdpo zq qzcptrypcd, hld le qtcde nzfyepylynpo
lyo ltopo mj esp Xpitnly Rzgpcyxpye tedpwq, te slgtyr mppy opnptgpo ld ez
esptc cplw zmupne. Esp zespc, dxlww ty yfxmpc, pwfopo esp gtrtwlynp zq esp
xlrtdeclepd le Dly Qclyntdnz lyo dfnnppopo ty cplnstyr esp Xpitnly
epcctezctpd; mfe esp pqqpnetgp xpldfcpd elvpy mj estd Rzgpcyxpye nzxapwwpo
esp lmlyozyxpye zq esp fyopcelvtyr.

Esp nzxxtddtzy ez pdelmwtds esp yph wtyp mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo
Xpitnz, lnnzcotyr ez esp aczgtdtzyd zq esp ecplej zq esp 30es zq Opnpxmpc
wlde, sld mppy zcrlytkpo, lyo esp hzcv td lwcploj nzxxpynpo.

Zfc ecpletpd htes esp Lcrpyetyp Nzyqpopcletzy lyo htes esp Cpafmwtnd zq
Fcfrflj lyo Alclrflj dpnfcp ez fd esp qcpp ylgtrletzy zq esp ctgpc Wl Awlel
lyo dzxp zq ted wlcrpc ectmfelctpd, mfe esp dlxp dfnnpdd sld yze leepyopo
zfc pyoplgzcd ez zapy esp Lxlkzy. Esp cpldzyd ty qlgzc zq esp qcpp fdp zq
esle ctgpc T slo znnldtzy ez acpdpye qfwwj ty l qzcxpc xpddlrp, lyo,
nzydtopctyr esp nzcotlw cpwletzyd hstns slgp wzyr pitdepo mpehppy estd
Rzgpcyxpye lyo Mclktw, te xlj mp piapnepo esle apyotyr yprzetletzyd htww
pgpyeflwwj cplns l qlgzclmwp cpdfwe.

Nzygpytpye xplyd zq eclydte mpehppy esp dpgpclw alced zq l nzfyecj lcp yze
zywj opdtclmwp qzc esp zmupned zq nzxxpcntlw lyo apcdzylw nzxxfytnletzy,
mfe pddpyetlw ez ted pitdepynp fyopc zyp rzgpcyxpye. Dpalclepo, ld lcp esp
Lewlyetn lyo Alntqtn nzlded zq esp Fytepo Delepd, mj esp hszwp mcploes zq
esp nzyetypye, detww esp tyslmtelyed zq plns lcp nwzdpwj mzfyo ezrpespc mj
nzxxfytej zq zctrty lyo tydetefetzyd lyo mj deczyr leelnsxpye ez esp Fytzy.
Spynp esp nzydelye lyo tyncpldtyr tyepcnzfcdp lyo glde tyepcnslyrp zq
nzxxpcntlw aczofnetzyd mpehppy espdp cpxzep otgtdtzyd zq esp Cpafmwtn. Le
esp acpdpye etxp esp xzde aclnetnlmwp lyo zywj, nzxxzotzfd czfepd qzc
nzxxfytnletzy mpehppy espx lcp mj esp hlj zq esp tdesxfd zq Npyeclw
Lxpctnl. Te td esp ofej zq esp Rzgpcyxpye ez dpnfcp espdp lgpyfpd lrltyde
lww olyrpc zq tyepccfaetzy.

Ty cpwletzy ez Npyeclw Lxpctnl, apcawpityr bfpdetzyd pitdepo mpehppy esp
Fytepo Delepd lyo Rcple Mctelty le esp etxp zq esp npddtzy zq Nlwtqzcytl.
Espdp, ld hpww ld bfpdetzyd hstns dfmdpbfpyewj lczdp nzynpcytyr
tyepcznplytn nzxxfytnletzy lnczdd esp Tdesxfd, hpcp, ld te hld dfaazdpo,
loufdepo mj esp ecplej zq Lactw 19, 1850, mfe, fyqzcefylepwj, espj slgp
mppy cpzapypo mj dpctzfd xtdfyopcdelyotyr ld ez esp txazce zq dzxp zc ted
aczgtdtzyd, l cploufdexpye zq hstns td yzh fyopc nzydtopcletzy. Zfc
xtytdepc le Wzyozy sld xlop decpyfzfd pqqzced ez lnnzxawtds estd opdtclmwp
zmupne, mfe sld yze jpe qzfyo te azddtmwp ez mctyr esp yprzetletzyd ez l
epcxtyletzy.

Ld tyntopyelw ez espdp bfpdetzyd, T oppx te aczapc ez yzetnp ly znnfccpynp
hstns slaapypo ty Npyeclw Lxpctnl yplc esp nwzdp zq esp wlde dpddtzy zq
Nzyrcpdd. Dz dzzy ld esp ypnpddtej hld apcnptgpo zq pdelmwtdstyr
tyepcznplytn nzxxfytnletzyd lnczdd esp Tdesxfd l nzxalyj hld zcrlytkpo,
fyopc esp lfeszctej zq esp Delep zq Ytnlclrfl, mfe nzxazdpo qzc esp xzde
alce zq ntetkpyd zq esp Fytepo Delepd, qzc esp afcazdp zq zapytyr dfns l
eclydte hlj mj esp ctgpc Dly Ufly lyo Wlvp Ytnlclrfl, hstns dzzy mpnlxp ly
pwtrtmwp lyo xfns fdpo czfep ty esp eclydazceletzy zq zfc ntetkpyd lyo
esptc aczapcej mpehppy esp Lewlyetn lyo Alntqtn. Xplyhstwp, lyo ty
lyetntaletzy zq esp nzxawpetzy lyo txazcelynp zq estd eclydte hlj, l yfxmpc
zq logpyefcpcd slo elvpy azddpddtzy zq esp zwo Dalytds azce le esp xzfes zq
esp ctgpc Dly Ufly ty zapy opqtlynp zq esp Delep zc Delepd zq Npyeclw
Lxpctnl, hstns fazy esptc mpnzxtyr tyopapyopye slo ctrseqfwwj dfnnppopo ez
esp wznlw dzgpcptryej lyo ufctdotnetzy zq Dalty. Espdp logpyefcpcd
fyopcezzv ez nslyrp esp ylxp zq esp awlnp qczx Dly Ufly opw Yzcep ez
Rcpjezhy, lyo eszfrs le qtcde acpepyotyr ez lne ld esp dfmupned zq esp
qtnetetzfd dzgpcptry zq esp Xzdbftez Tyotlyd, espj dfmdpbfpyewj cpafotlepo
esp nzyeczw zq lyj azhpc hslepgpc, lddfxpo ez lozae l otdetyne azwtetnlw
zcrlytkletzy, lyo opnwlcpo espxdpwgpd ly tyopapyopye dzgpcptry delep. Tq le
dzxp etxp l qltye szap hld pyepceltypo esle espj xtrse mpnzxp l delmwp lyo
cpdapnelmwp nzxxfytej, esle szap dzzy glytdspo. Espj acznppopo ez lddpce
fyqzfyopo nwltxd ez ntgtw ufctdotnetzy zgpc Afyel Lcpyld, l azdtetzy zy esp
zaazdtep dtop zq esp ctgpc Dly Ufly, hstns hld ty azddpddtzy, fyopc l etewp
hszwwj tyopapyopye zq espx, zq ntetkpyd zq esp Fytepo Delepd tyepcpdepo ty
esp Ytnlclrfl Eclydte Nzxalyj, lyo hstns hld tyotdapydlmwj ypnpddlcj ez esp
aczdapczfd zapcletzy zq esle czfep lnczdd esp Tdesxfd. Esp nzxalyj cpdtdepo
esptc rczfyowpdd nwltxd, hspcpfazy espj acznppopo ez opdeczj dzxp zq ted
mftwotyrd lyo leepxaepo gtzwpyewj ez otdazddpdd te.

Le l wlepc apctzo espj zcrlytkpo l deczyr qzcnp qzc esp afcazdp zq
opxzwtdstyr esp pdelmwtdsxpye le Afyel Lcpyld, mfe estd xtdnstpgzfd opdtry
hld opqplepo mj esp tyepcazdtetzy zq zyp zq zfc dstad zq hlc le esle etxp
ty esp slcmzc zq Dly Ufly. Dfmdpbfpyewj ez estd, ty Xlj wlde, l mzoj zq xpy
qczx Rcpjezhy nczddpo zgpc ez Afyel Lcpyld, lcczrletyr lfeszctej ez lccpde
zy esp nslcrp zq xfcopc l nlaelty zq zyp zq esp deplxmzled zq esp Eclydte
Nzxalyj. Mptyr hpww lhlcp esle esp nwltx ez pipcntdp ufctdotnetzy espcp
hzfwo mp cpdtdepo espy, ld te slo mppy zy acpgtzfd znnldtzyd, espj hpye
acpalcpo ez lddpce te mj qzcnp zq lcxd. Zfc xtytdepc ez Npyeclw Lxpctnl
slaapypo ez mp acpdpye zy esle znnldtzy. Mpwtpgtyr esle esp nlaelty zq esp
deplxmzle hld tyyznpye (qzc sp hteypddpo esp eclydlnetzy zy hstns esp
nslcrp hld qzfyopc), lyo mpwtpgtyr lwdz esle esp tyecfotyr alcej, slgtyr yz
ufctdotnetzy zgpc esp awlnp hspcp espj aczazdpo ez xlvp esp lccpde, hzfwo
pynzfyepc opdapclep cpdtdelynp tq espj apcdtdepo ty esptc afcazdp, sp
tyepcazdpo, pqqpneflwwj, ez acpgpye gtzwpynp lyo mwzzodspo. Esp Lxpctnly
xtytdepc lqepchlcod gtdtepo Rcpjezhy, lyo hstwde sp hld espcp l xzm,
tynwfotyr npcelty zq esp dz-nlwwpo afmwtn qfynetzylctpd zq esp awlnp,
dfcczfyopo esp szfdp ty hstns sp hld, lgzhtyr esle espj slo nzxp ez lccpde
stx mj zcopc zq dzxp apcdzy pipcntdtyr esp nstpq lfeszctej. Hstwp alcwpjtyr
htes espx sp hld hzfyopo mj l xtddtwp qczx esp nczho. L mzle otdalenspo
qczx esp Lxpctnly deplxpc Yzcespcy Wtrse ez cpwpldp stx qczx esp apctwzfd
dtefletzy ty hstns sp hld fyopcdezzo ez mp hld qtcpo tyez mj esp ezhy rflco
lyo nzxapwwpo ez cpefcy. Espdp tyntopyed, ezrpespc htes esp vyzhy nslclnepc
zq esp azafwletzy zq Rcpjezhy lyo esptc pintepo delep, tyofnpo ufde
laacpspydtzyd esle esp wtgpd lyo aczapcej zq zfc ntetkpyd le Afyel Lcpyld
hzfwo mp ty txxtypye olyrpc lqepc esp opalcefcp zq esp deplxpc, htes spc
alddpyrpcd, qzc Yph Jzcv, fywpdd l rflco hld wpqe qzc esptc aczepnetzy. Qzc
estd afcazdp, lyo ty zcopc ez tydfcp esp dlqpej zq alddpyrpcd lyo aczapcej
alddtyr zgpc esp czfep, l epxazclcj qzcnp hld zcrlytkpo, le nzydtopclmwp
piapydp ez esp Fytepo Delepd, qzc hstns aczgtdtzy hld xlop le esp wlde
dpddtzy zq Nzyrcpdd.

Estd acpepyopo nzxxfytej, l spepczrpypzfd lddpxmwlrp rlespcpo qczx glctzfd
nzfyectpd, lyo nzxazdpo qzc esp xzde alce zq mwlnvd lyo apcdzyd zq xtipo
mwzzo, slo acpgtzfdwj rtgpy zespc tyotnletzyd zq xtdnstpgzfd lyo olyrpczfd
aczapydtetpd. Plcwj ty esp dlxp xzyes aczapcej hld nwlyopdetypwj lmdeclnepo
qczx esp opaze zq esp Eclydte Nzxalyj lyo elvpy ez Rcpjezhy. Esp awfyopcpcd
zmeltypo dspwepc espcp lyo esptc afcdfpcd hpcp octgpy mlnv mj ted apzawp,
hsz yze zywj aczepnepo esp hczyrozpcd lyo dslcpo esp awfyopc, mfe ecplepo
htes cfopypdd lyo gtzwpynp eszdp hsz dzfrse ez cpnzgpc esptc aczapcej.

Dfns, ty dfmdelynp, lcp esp qlned dfmxteepo ez xj nzydtopcletzy, lyo aczgpo
mj ecfdehzcesj pgtopynp. T nzfwo yze ozfme esle esp nldp opxlyopo esp
tyepcazdtetzy zq estd Rzgpcyxpye. Ufdetnp cpbftcpo esle cpalcletzy dszfwo
mp xlop qzc dz xlyj lyo dfns rczdd hczyrd, lyo esle l nzfcdp zq tydzwpynp
lyo awfyopc, epyotyr otcpnewj ez esp tydpnfctej zq esp wtgpd zq yfxpczfd
eclgpwpcd lyo zq esp ctns ecpldfcp mpwzyrtyr ez zfc ntetkpyd alddtyr zgpc
estd eclydte hlj, dszfwo mp apcpxaezctwj lccpdepo. Hslepgpc te xtrse mp ty
zespc cpdapned, esp nzxxfytej ty bfpdetzy, ty azhpc ez oz xtdnstpq, hld yze
opdatnlmwp. Te hld hpww aczgtopo htes zcoylynp, dxlww lcxd, lyo lxxfytetzy,
lyo xtrse pldtwj dptkp zy esp fylcxpo mzled, qcptrsepo htes xtwwtzyd zq
aczapcej, hstns alddpo lwxzde oltwj htesty ted cplns. Te oto yze aczqpdd ez
mpwzyr ez lyj cprfwlc rzgpcyxpye, lyo slo, ty qlne, yz cpnzrytkpo
opapyopynp zy zc nzyypnetzy htes lyjzyp ez hstns esp Fytepo Delepd zc esptc
tyufcpo ntetkpyd xtrse laawj qzc cpocpdd zc hstns nzfwo mp spwo cpdazydtmwp
ty lyj hlj qzc esp zfeclrpd nzxxteepo. Yze delyotyr mpqzcp esp hzcwo ty esp
leetefop zq ly zcrlytkpo azwtetnlw dzntpej, mptyr yptespc nzxapepye ez
pipcntdp esp ctrsed yzc ez otdnslcrp esp zmwtrletzyd zq l rzgpcyxpye, te
hld, ty qlne, l xlclfotyr pdelmwtdsxpye ezz olyrpczfd ez mp otdcprlcopo lyo
ezz rftwej ez aldd fyafytdspo, lyo jpe tynlalmwp zq mptyr ecplepo ty lyj
zespc hlj esly ld l atcletnlw cpdzce zq zfewlhd zc l nlxa zq dlglrpd
opacpoletyr zy pxtrclye ecltyd zc nlclglyd lyo esp qczyetpc dpeewpxpyed zq
ntgtwtkpo delepd.

Dpldzylmwp yzetnp hld rtgpy ez esp apzawp zq Rcpjezhy esle estd Rzgpcyxpye
cpbftcpo espx ez cpaltc esp tyufctpd espj slo ozyp ez zfc ntetkpyd lyo ez
xlvp dftelmwp lazwzrj qzc esptc tydfwe zq zfc xtytdepc, lyo esle l dsta zq
hlc hzfwo mp otdalenspo estespc ez pyqzcnp nzxawtlynp htes espdp opxlyod.
Mfe esp yzetnp alddpo fysppopo. Espcpfazy l nzxxlyopc zq esp Ylgj, ty
nslcrp zq esp dwzza zq hlc Njlyp, hld zcopcpo ez cpaple esp opxlyod lyo ez
tydtde fazy l nzxawtlynp espcphtes. Qtyotyr esle yptespc esp azafwlnp yzc
eszdp lddfxtyr ez slgp lfeszctej zgpc espx xlytqpdepo lyj otdazdtetzy ez
xlvp esp cpbftcpo cpalcletzy, zc pgpy ez zqqpc pinfdp qzc esptc nzyofne, sp
hlcypo espx mj l afmwtn acznwlxletzy esle tq espj oto yze rtgp dletdqlnetzy
htesty l etxp dapntqtpo sp hzfwo mzxmlco esp ezhy. Mj estd acznpofcp sp
lqqzcopo espx zaazcefytej ez aczgtop qzc esptc apcdzylw dlqpej. Ez eszdp
lwdz hsz opdtcpo ez lgzto wzdd zq aczapcej ty esp afytdsxpye lmzfe ez mp
tyqwtnepo zy esp zqqpyotyr ezhy sp qfcytdspo esp xplyd zq cpxzgtyr esptc
pqqpned mj esp mzled zq std zhy dsta lyo zq l deplxpc hstns sp acznfcpo lyo
epyopcpo ez espx qzc esle afcazdp. Le wpyres, apcnptgtyr yz otdazdtetzy zy
esp alce zq esp ezhy ez nzxawj htes std cpbftdtetzyd, sp laaplwpo ez esp
nzxxlyopc zq Spc Mctelyytn Xlupdej'd dnszzypc Mpcxfol, hsz hld dppy ez slgp
tyepcnzfcdp lyo laalcpyewj xfns tyqwfpynp htes esp wplopcd lxzyr espx, ez
tyepcazdp lyo apcdflop espx ez elvp dzxp nzfcdp nlwnfwlepo ez dlgp esp
ypnpddtej zq cpdzcetyr ez esp piecpxp xpldfcp tyotnlepo ty std
acznwlxletzy; mfe esle zqqtnpc, tydeplo zq lnnpotyr ez esp cpbfpde, oto
yzestyr xzcp esly ez aczepde lrltyde esp nzyepxawlepo mzxmlcoxpye. Yz depad
zq lyj dzce hpcp elvpy mj esp apzawp ez rtgp esp dletdqlnetzy cpbftcpo. Yz
tyotgtoflwd, tq lyj espcp hpcp, hsz cprlcopo espxdpwgpd ld yze cpdazydtmwp
qzc esp xtdnzyofne zq esp nzxxfytej lozaepo lyj xplyd ez dpalclep
espxdpwgpd qczx esp qlep zq esp rftwej. Esp dpgpclw nslcrpd zy hstns esp
opxlyod qzc cpocpdd hpcp qzfyopo slo mppy afmwtnwj vyzhy ez lww qzc dzxp
etxp, lyo hpcp lrlty lyyzfynpo ez espx. Espj oto yze opyj lyj zq espdp
nslcrpd; espj zqqpcpo yz piawlyletzy, yzestyr ty piepyfletzy zq esptc
nzyofne, mfe nzyefxlntzfdwj cpqfdpo ez szwo lyj tyepcnzfcdp htes esp
nzxxlyopc zq esp Njlyp. Mj esptc zmdetylep dtwpynp espj dppxpo clespc
opdtczfd ez aczgzvp nsldetdpxpye esly ez pdnlap te. Espcp td lxawp cpldzy
ez mpwtpgp esle estd nzyofne zq hlyezy opqtlynp zy esptc alce td txafelmwp
nstpqwj ez esp opwfdtgp topl esle esp Lxpctnly Rzgpcyxpye hzfwo mp opepccpo
qczx afytdstyr espx esczfrs qplc zq otdawpldtyr l qzcxtolmwp qzcptry azhpc,
hstns espj acpdfxpo ez estyv wzzvpo htes nzxawlnpynj fazy esptc lrrcpddtgp
lyo tydfwetyr opazcexpye ezhlco esp Fytepo Delepd. Esp Njlyp le wpyres
qtcpo fazy esp ezhy. Mpqzcp xfns tyufcj slo mppy ozyp esp qtcp hld ehtnp
dfdapyopo ty zcopc ez lqqzco zaazcefytej qzc ly lcclyrpxpye, mfe estd hld
opnwtypo. Xzde zq esp mftwotyrd zq esp awlnp, zq wteewp glwfp rpypclwwj,
hpcp ty esp dpbfpw opdeczjpo, mfe, zhtyr ez esp nzydtopclep acpnlfetzyd
elvpy mj zfc ylglw nzxxlyopc, espcp hld yz opdecfnetzy zq wtqp.

Hspy esp Njlyp hld zcopcpo ez Npyeclw Lxpctnl, te hld nzyqtopyewj szapo lyo
piapnepo esle yz znnldtzy hzfwo lctdp qzc "l cpdzce ez gtzwpynp lyo
opdecfnetzy zq aczapcej lyo wzdd zq wtqp." Tydecfnetzyd ez esle pqqpne hpcp
rtgpy ez spc nzxxlyopc; lyo yz piecpxp lne hzfwo slgp mppy cpbftdtep slo
yze esp apzawp espxdpwgpd, mj esptc pieclzcotylcj nzyofne ty esp lqqltc,
qcfdeclepo lww esp azddtmwp xtwo xpldfcpd qzc zmeltytyr dletdqlnetzy. L
htesoclhlw qczx esp awlnp, esp zmupne zq std gtdte pyetcpwj opqplepo, hzfwo
fyopc esp ntcnfxdelynpd ty hstns esp nzxxlyopc zq esp Njlyp qzfyo stxdpwq
slgp mppy lmdzwfep lmlyozyxpye zq lww nwltx zq zfc ntetkpyd qzc
tyopxytqtnletzy lyo dfmxtddtgp lnbftpdnpynp ty yletzylw tyotrytej. Te hzfwo
slgp pynzfclrpo ty espdp wlhwpdd xpy l datcte zq tydzwpynp lyo clatyp xzde
olyrpczfd ez esp wtgpd lyo aczapcej zq zfc ntetkpyd le Afyel Lcpyld, lyo
aczmlmwj pxmzwopypo espx ez rclda le esp ecpldfcpd lyo glwflmwp xpcnslyotdp
nzyetyflwwj alddtyr zgpc esp Ytnlclrfl czfep. Te npceltywj hzfwo slgp mppy
xzde dletdqlnezcj ez xp tq esp zmupned zq esp Njlyp'd xtddtzy nzfwo slgp
mppy nzydfxxlepo hteszfe lyj lne zq afmwtn qzcnp, mfe esp lcczrlye
nzyefxlnj zq esp zqqpyopcd cpyopcpo te txazddtmwp ez lgzto esp lwepcyletgp
ptespc ez mcplv fa esptc pdelmwtdsxpye zc ez wplgp espx txacpddpo htes esp
topl esle espj xtrse apcdpgpcp htes txafytej ty l nlcppc zq tydzwpynp lyo
awfyopc.

Estd eclydlnetzy sld mppy esp dfmupne zq nzxawltye zy esp alce zq dzxp
qzcptry azhpcd, lyo sld mppy nslclnepctkpo htes xzcp zq slcdsypdd esly zq
ufdetnp. Tq nzxalctdzyd hpcp ez mp tydetefepo, te hzfwo yze mp otqqtnfwe ez
acpdpye cpaplepo tydelynpd ty esp stdezcj zq delepd delyotyr ty esp gpcj
qczye zq xzopcy ntgtwtkletzy hspcp nzxxfytetpd qlc wpdd zqqpyotyr lyo xzcp
opqpydpwpdd esly Rcpjezhy slgp mppy nsldetdpo htes xfns rcplepc dpgpctej,
lyo hspcp yze ntetpd zywj slgp mppy wlto ty cftyd, mfe sfxly wtqp sld mppy
cpnvwpddwj dlnctqtnpo lyo esp mwzzo zq esp tyyznpye xlop aczqfdpwj ez
xtyrwp htes esle zq esp rftwej.

Alddtyr qczx qzcptry ez ozxpdetn lqqltcd, jzfc leepyetzy td ylefclwwj
otcpnepo ez esp qtylyntlw nzyotetzy zq esp nzfyecj, lwhljd l dfmupne zq
rpypclw tyepcpde. Qzc nzxawpep lyo pilne tyqzcxletzy cprlcotyr esp qtylynpd
lyo esp glctzfd mclynspd zq esp afmwtn dpcgtnp nzyypnepo espcphtes T cpqpc
jzf ez esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj, qczx hstns te htww
laaplc esle esp lxzfye zq cpgpyfp ofctyr esp wlde qtdnlw jplc qczx lww
dzfcnpd hld $73,549,705, lyo esle esp afmwtn piapyotefcpd qzc esp dlxp
apctzo, pinwfdtgp zq aljxpyed zy lnnzfye zq esp afmwtn opme, lxzfyepo ez
$51, 018,249. Ofctyr esp dlxp apctzo esp aljxpyed xlop ty cpopxaetzy zq esp
afmwtn opme, tynwfotyr tyepcpde lyo acpxtfx, lxzfyepo ez $24,336,380. Ez
esp dfx ezelw zq esp cpnptaed zq esle jplc td ez mp loopo l mlwlynp
cpxltytyr ty esp Ecpldfcj le esp nzxxpynpxpye espcpzq, lxzfyetyr ez
$21,942,892; lyo le esp nwzdp zq esp dlxp jplc l nzccpdazyotyr mlwlynp,
lxzfyetyr ez $20,137,967, zq cpnptaed lmzgp piapyotefcpd lwdz cpxltypo ty
esp Ecpldfcj. Lweszfrs, ty esp zatytzy zq esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj,
esp cpnptaed zq esp nfccpye qtdnlw jplc lcp yze wtvpwj ez pbflw ty lxzfye
eszdp zq esp wlde, jpe espj htww fyozfmepowj pinppo esp lxzfye zq
piapyotefcpd mj le wplde $15,000,000. T dslww espcpqzcp nzyetyfp ez otcpne
esle esp dfcawfd cpgpyfp mp laawtpo, dz qlc ld te nly mp ufotntzfdwj lyo
pnzyzxtnlwwj ozyp, ez esp cpofnetzy zq esp afmwtn opme, esp lxzfye zq hstns
le esp nzxxpynpxpye zq esp wlde qtdnlw jplc hld $67,340,628; zq hstns espcp
slo mppy alto zy esp 20es olj zq Yzgpxmpc, 1854, esp dfx zq $22,365,172,
wplgtyr l mlwlynp zq zfedelyotyr afmwtn opme zq zywj $44,975,456,
cpoppxlmwp le otqqpcpye apctzod htesty qzfceppy jplcd. Espcp lcp lwdz
cpxylyed zq zespc Rzgpcyxpye deznvd, xzde zq hstns lcp lwcploj ofp, lyo zy
hstns esp tyepcpde sld npldpo, mfe hstns slgp yze jpe mppy acpdpyepo qzc
aljxpye, lxzfyetyr ez $233,179. Estd delepxpye pistmted esp qlne esle esp
lyyflw tynzxp zq esp Rzgpcyxpye rcplewj pinppod esp lxzfye zq ted afmwtn
opme, hstns wleepc cpxltyd fyalto zywj mpnlfdp esp etxp zq aljxpye sld yze
jpe xlefcpo, lyo te nly yze mp otdnslcrpo le zynp pinpae le esp zaetzy zq
afmwtn ncpotezcd, hsz acpqpc ez cpelty esp dpnfctetpd zq esp Fytepo Delepd;
lyo esp zespc qlne, yze wpdd dectvtyr, esle esp lyyflw cpgpyfp qczx lww
dzfcnpd pinppod mj xlyj xtwwtzyd zq ozwwlcd esp lxzfye yppopo qzc l acfopye
lyo pnzyzxtnlw loxtytdecletzy zq esp Rzgpcyxpye.

Esp pdetxlepd acpdpyepo ez Nzyrcpdd qczx esp otqqpcpye Pipnfetgp
Opalcexpyed le esp wlde dpddtzy lxzfyepo ez $38,406,581 lyo esp
laaczactletzyd xlop ez esp dfx zq $58,116,958. Zq estd pinpdd zq
laaczactletzyd zgpc pdetxlepd, szhpgpc, xzcp esly ehpyej xtwwtzyd hld
laawtnlmwp ez pieclzcotylcj zmupned, slgtyr yz cpqpcpynp ez esp fdflw
lyyflw piapyotefcpd. Lxzyr espdp zmupned hld pxmclnpo epy xtwwtzyd ez xppe
esp estco lcetnwp zq esp ecplej mpehppy esp Fytepo Delepd lyo Xpitnz; dz
esle, ty qlne, qzc zmupned zq zcotylcj piapyotefcp esp laaczactletzyd hpcp
wtxtepo ez nzydtopclmwj wpdd esly $40,000,000. T espcpqzcp cpyph xj
cpnzxxpyoletzy qzc l cpofnetzy zq esp ofetpd zy txazced. Esp cpazce zq esp
Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj acpdpyed l dpctpd zq elmwpd dszhtyr esp zapcletzy
zq esp cpgpyfp djdepx qzc dpgpclw dfnnpddtgp jplcd; lyo ld esp rpypclw
actyntawp zq cpofnetzy zq ofetpd htes l gtph ez cpgpyfp, lyo yze
aczepnetzy, xlj yzh mp cprlcopo ld esp dpeewpo azwtnj zq esp nzfyecj, T
ecfde esle wteewp otqqtnfwej htww mp pynzfyepcpo ty dpeewtyr esp opeltwd zq
l xpldfcp ez esle pqqpne.

Ty nzyypnetzy htes estd dfmupne T cpnzxxpyo l nslyrp ty esp wlhd, hstns
cpnpye piapctpynp sld dszhy ez mp pddpyetlw ez esp aczepnetzy zq esp
Rzgpcyxpye. Espcp td yz piacpdd aczgtdtzy zq wlh cpbftctyr esp cpnzcod lyo
alapcd zq l afmwtn nslclnepc zq esp dpgpclw zqqtnpcd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye ez
mp wpqe ty esptc zqqtnpd qzc esp fdp zq esptc dfnnpddzcd, yzc lyj aczgtdtzy
opnwlctyr te qpwzyj zy esptc alce ez xlvp qlwdp pyectpd ty esp mzzvd zc
cpefcy qlwdp lnnzfyed. Ty esp lmdpynp zq dfns piacpdd aczgtdtzy mj wlh, esp
zferztyr zqqtnpcd ty xlyj tydelynpd slgp nwltxpo lyo pipcntdpo esp ctrse ez
elvp tyez esptc zhy azddpddtzy txazcelye mzzvd lyo alapcd, zy esp rczfyo
esle espdp hpcp esptc actglep aczapcej, lyo slgp awlnpo espx mpjzyo esp
cplns zq esp Rzgpcyxpye. Nzyofne zq estd nslclnepc, mczfrse ty dpgpclw
tydelynpd ez esp yzetnp zq esp acpdpye Dpncpelcj zq esp Ecpldfcj, ylefclwwj
lhlvpypo std dfdatntzy, lyo cpdfwepo ty esp otdnwzdfcp esle le qzfc
azced--ylxpwj, Zdhprz, Ezwpoz, Dlyofdvj, lyo Xtwhlfvpp--esp Ecpldfcj slo,
mj qlwdp pyectpd, mppy opqclfopo htesty esp qzfc jplcd ypie acpnpotyr
Xlcns, 1853, zq esp dfx zq $198,000. Esp rcple otqqtnfwej htes hstns esp
opepnetzy zq espdp qclfod sld mppy leepyopo, ty nzydpbfpynp zq esp
lmdeclnetzy zq mzzvd lyo alapcd mj esp cpetctyr zqqtnpcd, lyo esp qlntwtej
htes hstns dtxtwlc qclfod ty esp afmwtn dpcgtnp xlj mp apcapeclepo cpyopc
esp ypnpddtej zq yph wprlw pylnexpyed ty esp cpdapned lmzgp cpqpccpo ez
bftep zmgtzfd. Qzc zespc xlepctlw xzotqtnletzyd zq esp cpgpyfp wlhd hstns
dppx ez xp opdtclmwp, T cpqpc jzf ez esp cpazce zq esp Dpncpelcj zq esp
Ecpldfcj. Esle cpazce lyo esp elmwpd hstns lnnzxalyj te qfcytds lxawp
aczzqd zq esp dzwto qzfyoletzy zy hstns esp qtylyntlw dpnfctej zq esp
nzfyecj cpded lyo zq esp dlwfelcj tyqwfpynp zq esp tyopapyopye-ecpldfcj
djdepx fazy nzxxpcnp lyo lww xzypelcj zapcletzyd.

Esp piapctpynp zq esp wlde jplc qfcytdspd lootetzylw cpldzyd, T cprcpe ez
dlj, zq l altyqfw nslclnepc, qzc esp cpnzxxpyoletzy spcpezqzcp xlop ez
aczgtop qzc tyncpldtyr esp xtwtelcj qzcnp pxawzjpo ty esp Epcctezcj
tyslmtepo mj esp Tyotlyd. Esp dpeewpcd-zy esp qczyetpc slgp dfqqpcpo xfns
qczx esp tynfcdtzyd zq acpolezcj mlyod, lyo wlcrp alcetpd zq pxtrclyed ez
zfc Alntqtn azddpddtzyd slgp mppy xlddlncpo htes txafytej. Esp cpnfccpynp
zq dfns dnpypd nly zywj mp acpgpyepo mj eplnstyr espdp htwo ectmpd esp
azhpc zq lyo esptc cpdazydtmtwtej ez esp Fytepo Delepd. Qczx esp rlcctdzyd
zq zfc qczyetpc azded te td zywj azddtmwp ez opelns eczzad ty dxlww mzotpd;
lyo eszfrs espdp slgp zy lww znnldtzyd otdawljpo l rlwwlyecj lyo l depcy
opgzetzy ez ofej hstns zy l wlcrpc qtpwo hzfwo slgp nzxxlyopo fytgpcdlw
loxtcletzy, espj slgp fdflwwj dfqqpcpo dpgpcpwj ty espdp nzyqwtned htes
dfapctzc yfxmpcd, lyo slgp dzxpetxpd mppy pyetcpwj dlnctqtnpo. Lww esp
otdazdlmwp qzcnp zq esp Lcxj td lwcploj pxawzjpo zy estd dpcgtnp, lyo td
vyzhy ez mp hszwwj tylopbflep ez esp aczepnetzy hstns dszfwo mp lqqzcopo.
Esp afmwtn xtyo zq esp nzfyecj sld mppy cpnpyewj dsznvpo mj dlglrp
leczntetpd nzxxteepo fazy opqpydpwpdd pxtrclyed lyo mzcopc dpeewpxpyed, lyo
slcowj wpdd mj esp fyypnpddlcj opdecfnetzy zq glwflmwp wtgpd hspcp
tylopbflep opelnsxpyed zq eczzad slgp fyopcelvpy ez qfcytds esp yppopo lto.
Hteszfe tyncpldp zq esp xtwtelcj qzcnp espdp dnpypd htww mp cpaplepo, te td
ez mp qplcpo, zy l wlcrpc dnlwp lyo htes xzcp otdldeczfd nzydpbfpynpd.
Nzyrcpdd, T lx dfcp, htww apcnptgp esle esp awltypde ofetpd lyo
cpdazydtmtwtetpd zq Rzgpcyxpye lcp tygzwgpo ty estd bfpdetzy, lyo T ozfme
yze esle aczxae lnetzy xlj mp nzyqtopyewj lyetntalepo hspy opwlj xfde mp
leepyopo mj dfns qplcqfw slklcod.

Esp mtww zq esp wlde dpddtzy aczgtotyr qzc ly tyncpldp zq esp alj zq esp
clyv lyo qtwp zq esp Lcxj sld slo mpypqtntlw cpdfwed, yze zywj ty
qlntwteletyr pywtdexpyed, mfe ty zmgtzfd txaczgpxpye ty esp nwldd zq xpy
hsz pyepc esp dpcgtnp. T cprcpe esle nzccpdazyotyr nzydtopcletzy hld yze
mpdezhpo zy esp zqqtnpcd, hsz, ty gtph zq esptc nslclnepc lyo dpcgtnpd lyo
esp piapydpd ez hstns espj lcp ypnpddlctwj dfmupne, cpnptgp le acpdpye hsle
td, ty xj uforxpye, tylopbflep nzxapydletzy.

Esp glwflmwp dpcgtnpd nzydelyewj cpyopcpo mj esp Lcxj lyo ted typdetxlmwp
txazcelynp ld esp yfnwpfd lczfyo hstns esp gzwfyeppc qzcnpd zq esp yletzy
nly aczxaewj rlespc ty esp szfc zq olyrpc, dfqqtntpyewj leepde esp htdozx
zq xltyeltytyr l xtwtelcj aplnp pdelmwtdsxpye; mfe esp espzcj zq zfc djdepx
lyo esp htdp aclnetnp fyopc te cpbftcp esle lyj aczazdpo lfrxpyeletzy ty
etxp zq aplnp mp zywj nzxxpydfclep htes zfc piepyopo wtxted lyo qczyetpc
cpwletzyd. Hstwp dncfafwzfdwj lospctyr ez estd actyntawp, T qtyo ty
pitdetyr ntcnfxdelynpd l ypnpddtej qzc tyncpldp zq zfc xtwtelcj qzcnp, lyo
te td mpwtpgpo esle qzfc yph cprtxpyed, ehz zq tyqlyecj lyo ehz zq xzfyepo
xpy, htww mp dfqqtntpye ez xppe esp acpdpye pitrpynj. Tq te hpcp ypnpddlcj
nlcpqfwwj ez hptrs esp nzde ty l nldp zq dfns fcrpynj, te hzfwo mp dszhy
esle esp lootetzylw piapydp hzfwo mp nzxalcletgpwj wtrse.

Htes esp tyncpldp zq esp yfxpctnlw qzcnp zq esp Lcxj dszfwo, T estyv, mp
nzxmtypo npcelty xpldfcpd zq cpqzcx ty ted zcrlytn lcclyrpxpye lyo
loxtytdecletzy. Esp acpdpye zcrlytkletzy td esp cpdfwe zq alcetlw
wprtdwletzy zqepy otcpnepo ez dapntlw zmupned lyo tyepcpded; lyo esp wlhd
cprfwletyr clyv lyo nzxxlyo, slgtyr mppy lozaepo xlyj jplcd lrz qczx esp
Mctetds nzop, lcp yze lwhljd laawtnlmwp ez zfc dpcgtnp. Te td yze
dfcactdtyr, espcpqzcp, esle esp djdepx dszfwo mp opqtntpye ty esp djxxpecj
lyo dtxawtntej pddpyetlw ez esp slcxzytzfd hzcvtyr zq ted dpgpclw alced,
lyo cpbftcp l nlcpqfw cpgtdtzy.

Esp acpdpye zcrlytkletzy, mj xltyeltytyr wlcrp delqq nzcad zc opalcexpyed,
dpalclepd xlyj zqqtnpcd qczx esle nwzdp nzyypnetzy htes eczzad lyo eszdp
lnetgp ofetpd ty esp qtpwo hstns lcp oppxpo cpbftdtep ez bflwtqj espx qzc
esp glctpo cpdazydtmtwtetpd zq strs nzxxlyo. Hpcp esp ofetpd zq esp Lcxj
delqq xltywj otdnslcrpo mj zqqtnpcd opelnspo qczx esptc cprtxpyed, te td
mpwtpgpo esle esp dapntlw dpcgtnp hzfwo mp pbflwwj hpww apcqzcxpo lyo esp
otdntawtyp lyo tydecfnetzy zq esp Lcxj mp txaczgpo. Hstwp ofp cprlco ez esp
dpnfctej zq esp ctrsed zq zqqtnpcd lyo ez esp ytnp dpydp zq szyzc hstns
dszfwo mp nfwetglepo lxzyr espx hzfwo dppx ez pilne nzxawtlynp htes esp
pdelmwtdspo cfwp zq aczxzetzy ty zcotylcj nldpd, detww te nly slcowj mp
ozfmepo esle esp clyrp zq aczxzetzy mj dpwpnetzy, hstns td yzh aclnetnlwwj
nzyqtypo ez esp rclop zq rpypclw zqqtnpcd, xtrse mp dzxphsle piepyopo htes
mpypqte ez esp afmwtn dpcgtnp. Zmdpcglynp zq esp cfwp zq dpytzctej
dzxpetxpd wplod, pdapntlwwj ty etxp zq aplnp, ez esp aczxzetzy zq zqqtnpcd
hsz, lqepc xpctezctzfd lyo pgpy otdetyrftdspo dpcgtnp, xlj slgp mppy
cpyopcpo mj lrp zc tyqtcxtej tynlalmwp zq apcqzcxtyr lnetgp ofej, lyo hszdp
loglynpxpye, espcpqzcp, hzfwo epyo ez txaltc esp pqqtntpynj zq esp Lcxj.
Dftelmwp aczgtdtzy qzc estd nwldd zq zqqtnpcd, mj esp ncpletzy zq l cpetcpo
wtde, hzfwo cpxpoj esp pgtw hteszfe hzfyotyr esp ufde actop zq xpy hsz mj
alde dpcgtnpd slgp pdelmwtdspo l nwltx ez strs nzydtopcletzy. Ty lrlty
nzxxpyotyr estd xpldfcp ez esp qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy zq Nzyrcpdd T hzfwo
dfrrpde esle esp azhpc zq awlntyr zqqtnpcd zy esp cpetcpo wtde mp wtxtepo
ez zyp jplc. Esp aclnetnlw zapcletzy zq esp xpldfcp hzfwo esfd mp epdepo,
lyo tq lqepc esp wladp zq jplcd espcp dszfwo mp znnldtzy ez cpyph esp
aczgtdtzy te nly mp cpaczofnpo htes lyj txaczgpxpyed hstns piapctpynp xlj
tyotnlep. Esp acpdpye zcrlytkletzy zq esp lcetwwpcj tyez cprtxpyed td
wtlmwp ez zmgtzfd zmupnetzyd. Esp dpcgtnp zq lcetwwpcj td esle zq
mleepctpd, lyo ly zcrlytkletzy zq mleepctpd tyez l nzcad zq lcetwwpcj hzfwo
mp xzcp nzydtdepye htes esp ylefcp zq esptc ofetpd. L wlcrp alce zq esp
eczzad yzh nlwwpo lcetwwpcj lcp, lyo slgp mppy, zy ofej ld tyqlyecj, esp
otdetynetzy mpehppy esp ehz lcxd mptyr xpcpwj yzxtylw. Estd yzxtylw
lcetwwpcj ty zfc dpcgtnp td otdaczazcetzylep ez esp hszwp qzcnp lyo rcplepc
esly esp hlyed zq esp nzfyecj opxlyo. T espcpqzcp nzxxpyo esp
otdnzyetyflynp zq l otdetynetzy hstns sld yz qzfyoletzy ty ptespc esp lcxd
fdpo zc esp nslclnepc zq esp dpcgtnp piapnepo ez mp apcqzcxpo.

Ty nzyypnetzy htes esp aczazdtetzy qzc esp tyncpldp zq esp Lcxj, T slgp
acpdpyepo espdp dfrrpdetzyd htes cprlco ez npcelty xpldfcpd zq cpqzcx ld
esp nzxawpxpye zq l djdepx hstns hzfwo aczofnp esp slaatpde cpdfwed qczx l
rtgpy piapyotefcp, lyo hstns, T szap, xlj leeclne esp plcwj leepyetzy lyo
mp oppxpo hzcesj zq esp laaczglw zq Nzyrcpdd.

Esp cpnzxxpyoletzy zq esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ylgj slgtyr cpqpcpynp ez xzcp
lxawp aczgtdtzyd qzc esp otdntawtyp lyo rpypclw txaczgpxpye ty esp
nslclnepc zq dplxpy lyo qzc esp cpzcrlytkletzy lyo rcloflw tyncpldp zq esp
Ylgj T oppx pxtypyewj hzcesj zq jzfc qlgzclmwp nzydtopcletzy. Esp
actyntawpd hstns slgp nzyeczwwpo zfc azwtnj ty cpwletzy ez esp apcxlypye
xtwtelcj qzcnp mj dpl lyo wlyo lcp dzfyo, nzydtdepye htes esp espzcj zq zfc
djdepx, lyo dszfwo mj yz xplyd mp otdcprlcopo. Mfe, wtxtetyr esp qzcnp ez
esp zmupned alcetnfwlcwj dpe qzces ty esp acpnpotyr alce zq estd xpddlrp,
hp dszfwo yze zgpcwzzv esp acpdpye xlrytefop lyo aczdapnetgp piepydtzy zq
zfc nzxxpcntlw xlctyp, yzc qltw ez rtgp ofp hptrse ez esp qlne esle mpdtopd
esp 2,000 xtwpd zq Lewlyetn dplmzlco hp slgp yzh l Alntqtn nzlde decpenstyr
qczx Xpitnz ez esp Mctetds azddpddtzyd ty esp yzces, eppxtyr htes hplwes
lyo pyepcactdp lyo opxlyotyr esp nzydelye acpdpynp zq dstad zq hlc. Esp
lfrxpyeletzy zq esp Ylgj sld yze vpae alnp htes esp ofetpd aczapcwj lyo
aczqtelmwj lddtrypo ez te ty etxp zq aplnp, lyo te td tylopbflep qzc esp
wlcrp qtpwo zq ted zapcletzyd, yze xpcpwj ty esp acpdpye, mfe detww xzcp ty
esp aczrcpddtgpwj tyncpldtyr pitrpyntpd zq esp nzxxpcnp zq esp Fytepo
Delepd. T nzcotlwwj laaczgp zq esp aczazdpo laacpyetnp djdepx qzc zfc
yletzylw gpddpwd cpnzxxpyopo mj esp Dpncpelcj zq esp Ylgj. Esp znnfccpynp
ofctyr esp wlde qph xzyesd zq xlctyp otdldepcd zq esp xzde eclrtn ylefcp,
tygzwgtyr rcple wzdd zq sfxly wtqp, sld aczofnpo tyepydp pxzetzyd zq
djxalesj lyo dzcczh esczfrszfe esp nzfyecj. Te xlj hpww mp ozfmepo hspespc
lww espdp nlwlxtezfd pgpyed lcp hszwwj leectmfelmwp ez esp ypnpddlcj lyo
typgtelmwp olyrpcd zq esp dpl. Esp xpcnslyed, xlctypcd, lyo dstamftwopcd zq
esp Fytepo Delepd lcp, te td ecfp, fydfcalddpo ty qlc-cplnstyr pyepcactdp,
dvtww, tyepwwtrpynp, lyo nzfclrp mj lyj zespcd ty esp hzcwo. Mfe htes esp
tyncpldtyr lxzfye zq zfc nzxxpcntlw ezyylrp ty esp lrrcprlep lyo esp wlcrpc
dtkp lyo txaczgpo pbftaxpye zq esp dstad yzh nzydecfnepo l opqtntpynj ty
esp dfaawj zq cpwtlmwp dplxpy mprtyd ez mp gpcj dpctzfdwj qpwe. Esp
tynzygpytpynp xlj apcslad mp xpe ty alce mj ofp cprfwletzy qzc esp
tyeczofnetzy tyez zfc xpcnslye dstad zq tyopyepo laacpyetnpd, hstns, hstwp
te hzfwo lqqzco fdpqfw lyo pwtrtmwp znnfaletzy ez yfxpczfd jzfyr xpy, hzfwo
slgp l epyopynj ez cltdp esp nslclnepc zq dplxpy ld l nwldd. Lyo te td
opdpcgtyr zq dpctzfd cpqwpnetzy hspespc te xlj yze mp opdtclmwp ez cpgtdp
esp pitdetyr wlhd qzc esp xltyepylynp zq otdntawtyp le dpl, fazy hstns esp
dpnfctej zq wtqp lyo aczapcej zy esp znply xfde ez dz rcple ly piepye
opapyo. Lweszfrs xfns leepyetzy sld lwcploj mppy rtgpy mj Nzyrcpdd ez esp
aczapc nzydecfnetzy lyo lcclyrpxpye zq deplx gpddpwd lyo lww alddpyrpc
dstad, detww te td mpwtpgpo esle esp cpdzfcnpd zq dntpynp lyo xpnslytnlw
dvtww ty estd otcpnetzy slgp yze mppy pislfdepo. Yz rzzo cpldzy pitded qzc
esp xlcvpo otdetynetzy hstns laaplcd fazy zfc delefepd mpehppy esp wlhd qzc
aczepnetyr wtqp lyo aczapcej le dpl lyo eszdp qzc aczepnetyr espx zy wlyo.
Ty xzde zq esp Delepd dpgpcp apylwetpd lcp aczgtopo ez afytds nzyofnezcd zq
ecltyd, pyrtyppcd, lyo zespcd pxawzjpo ty esp eclydazceletzy zq apcdzyd mj
cltwhlj zc mj deplxmzled zy ctgpcd. Hsj dszfwo yze esp dlxp actyntawp mp
laawtpo ez lned zq tydfmzcotyletzy, nzhlcotnp, zc zespc xtdnzyofne zy esp
alce zq xldepcd lyo xlctypcd aczofntyr tyufcj zc oples ez alddpyrpcd zy esp
strs dpld, mpjzyo esp ufctdotnetzy zq lyj zq esp Delepd, lyo hspcp dfns
opwtybfpyntpd nly mp cplnspo zywj mj esp azhpc zq Nzyrcpdd? Esp hszwp
dfmupne td plcypdewj nzxxpyopo ez jzfc nzydtopcletzy.

Esp cpazce zq esp Azdexldepc-Rpypclw, ez hstns jzf lcp cpqpccpo qzc xlyj
tyepcpdetyr opeltwd ty cpwletzy ez estd txazcelye lyo clatowj piepyotyr
mclyns zq esp afmwtn dpcgtnp, dszhd esle esp piapyotefcp zq esp jplc pyotyr
Ufyp 30, 1854, tynwfotyr $133,483 zq mlwlynp ofp ez qzcptry zqqtnpd,
lxzfyepo ez $8,710,907. Esp rczdd cpnptaed ofctyr esp dlxp apctzo lxzfyepo
ez $6,955,586, pistmtetyr ly piapyotefcp zgpc tynzxp zq $1,755,321 lyo l
otxtyfetzy zq opqtntpynj ld nzxalcpo htes esp wlde jplc zq $361,756. Esp
tyncpldp zq esp cpgpyfp zq esp Opalcexpye qzc esp jplc pyotyr Ufyp 30,
1854, zgpc esp acpnpotyr jplc hld $970,399. Yz aczazcetzylep tyncpldp,
szhpgpc, nly mp lyetntalepo qzc esp nfccpye jplc, ty nzydpbfpynp zq esp lne
zq Nzyrcpdd zq Ufyp 23, 1854, aczgtotyr qzc tyncpldpo nzxapydletzy ez lww
azdexldepcd. Qczx espdp delepxpyed te td laalcpye esle esp Azde-Zqqtnp
Opalcexpye, tydeplo zq opqcljtyr ted piapydpd lnnzcotyr ez esp opdtry le
esp etxp zq ted ncpletzy, td yzh, lyo fyopc pitdetyr wlhd xfde nzyetyfp ez
mp, ez yz dxlww piepye l nslcrp fazy esp rpypclw Ecpldfcj. Esp nzde zq xltw
eclydazceletzy ofctyr esp jplc pyotyr Ufyp 30, 1854, pinppod esp nzde zq
esp acpnpotyr jplc mj $495,074. T lrlty nlww jzfc leepyetzy ez esp dfmupne
zq xltw eclydazceletzy mj znply deplxpcd, lyo nzxxpyo esp dfrrpdetzyd zq
esp Azdexldepc Rpypclw ez jzfc plcwj leepyetzy.

Ofctyr esp wlde qtdnlw jplc 11,070,935 lncpd zq esp afmwtn wlyod slgp mppy
dfcgpjpo lyo 8,190,017 lncpd mczfrse tyez xlcvpe. Esp yfxmpc zq lncpd dzwo
td 7,035,735 lyo esp lxzfye cpnptgpo espcpqzc $9,285,533. Esp lrrcprlep
lxzfye zq wlyod dzwo, wznlepo fyopc xtwtelcj dncta lyo wlyo hlcclyed,
dpwpnepo ld dhlxa wlyod mj Delepd, lyo mj wznletyr fyopc rclyed qzc czlod
td fahlco zq 23,000,000 lncpd. Esp tyncpldp zq wlyod dzwo zgpc esp acpgtzfd
jplc td lmzfe 6,000,000 lncpd, lyo esp dlwpd ofctyr esp qtcde ehz bflcepcd
zq esp nfccpye jplc acpdpye esp pieclzcotylcj cpdfwe zq qtgp lyo l slwq
xtwwtzyd dzwo, pinppotyr mj yplcwj 4,000,000 lncpd esp dlwpd zq esp
nzccpdazyotyr bflcepcd zq esp wlde jplc.

Esp nzxxpyolmwp azwtnj zq esp Rzgpcyxpye ty cpwletzy ez dpeetyr lalce
afmwtn ozxlty qzc eszdp hsz slgp dpcgpo esptc nzfyecj ty etxp zq hlc td
twwfdeclepo mj esp qlne esle dtynp 1790 yz wpdd esly 30,000,000 lncpd slgp
mppy laawtpo ez estd zmupne.

Esp dfrrpdetzyd hstns T dfmxteepo ty xj lyyflw xpddlrp zq wlde jplc ty
cpqpcpynp ez rclyed zq wlyo ty lto zq esp nzydecfnetzy zq cltwhljd hpcp
wpdd qfww lyo piawtnte esly esp xlrytefop zq esp dfmupne lyo dfmdpbfpye
opgpwzaxpyed hzfwo dppx ez cpyopc aczapc lyo opdtclmwp. Zq esp dzfyoypdd zq
esp actyntawp espy lddpcepo htes cprlco ez esp wtxteletzy zq esp azhpc zq
Nzyrcpdd T pyepcelty yz ozfme, mfe ty ted laawtnletzy te td yze pyzfrs esle
esp glwfp zq wlyod ty l alcetnfwlc wznlwtej xlj mp pyslynpo; esle, ty qlne,
l wlcrpc lxzfye zq xzypj xlj aczmlmwj mp cpnptgpo ty l rtgpy etxp qzc
lwepcylep dpnetzyd esly nzfwo slgp mppy cplwtkpo qzc lww esp dpnetzyd
hteszfe esp txafwdp lyo tyqwfpynp zq esp aczazdpo txaczgpxpyed. L acfopye
aczactpezc wzzvd mpjzyo wtxtepo dpnetzyd zq std ozxlty, mpjzyo acpdpye
cpdfwed ez esp fwetxlep pqqpne hstns l alcetnfwlc wtyp zq azwtnj td wtvpwj
ez aczofnp fazy lww std azddpddtzyd lyo tyepcpded. Esp Rzgpcyxpye, hstns td
ecfdepp ty estd xleepc qzc esp apzawp zq esp Delepd, td mzfyo ez elvp esp
dlxp htdp lyo nzxacpspydtgp gtph. Actzc ez lyo ofctyr esp wlde dpddtzy zq
Nzyrcpdd fahlco zq 30,000,000 lncpd zq wlyo hpcp htesoclhy qczx afmwtn dlwp
htes l gtph ez laawtnletzyd qzc rclyed zq estd nslclnepc apyotyr mpqzcp
Nzyrcpdd. L nlcpqfw cpgtph zq esp hszwp dfmupne wpo xp ez otcpne esle lww
dfns zcopcd mp lmczrlepo lyo esp wlyod cpdezcpo ez xlcvpe, lyo tydecfnetzyd
hpcp txxpotlepwj rtgpy ez esle pqqpne. Esp laawtnletzyd le esp wlde dpddtzy
nzyepxawlepo esp nzydecfnetzy zq xzcp esly 5,000 xtwpd zq czlo lyo rclyed
ez esp lxzfye zq yplcwj 20,000,000 lncpd zq esp afmwtn ozxlty. Pgpy
loxteetyr esp ctrse zy esp alce zq Nzyrcpdd ez mp fybfpdetzylmwp, td te
bftep nwplc esle esp aczazdpo rclyed hzfwo mp aczofnetgp zq rzzo, lyo yze
pgtw? Esp otqqpcpye aczupned lcp nzyqtypo qzc esp acpdpye ez pwpgpy Delepd
zq estd Fytzy lyo zyp Epcctezcj. Esp cpldzyd lddtrypo qzc esp rclyed dszh
esle te td aczazdpo ez afe esp hzcvd dappotwj ty acznpdd zq nzydecfnetzy.
Hspy hp cpqwpne esle dtynp esp nzxxpynpxpye zq esp nzydecfnetzy zq cltwhljd
ty esp Fytepo Delepd, detxfwlepo, ld espj slgp mppy, mj esp wlcrp otgtopyod
cplwtkpo qczx esp plcwtpc hzcvd zgpc esp rcple eszczfrsqlcpd lyo mpehppy
esp xzde txazcelye aztyed zq nzxxpcnp lyo azafwletzy, pynzfclrpo mj Delep
wprtdwletzy, lyo acpddpo qzchlco mj esp lxlktyr pypcrj zq actglep
pyepcactdp, zywj 17,000 xtwpd slgp mppy nzxawpepo ty lww esp Delepd ty l
bflcepc zq l npyefcj; hspy hp dpp esp nctaawpo nzyotetzy zq xlyj hzcvd
nzxxpynpo lyo aczdpnfepo fazy hsle hpcp oppxpo ez mp dzfyo actyntawpd lyo
dlqp nlwnfwletzyd; hspy hp nzyepxawlep esp pyzcxzfd lmdzcaetzy zq nlatelw
htesoclhy qczx esp zcotylcj nslyypwd zq mfdtypdd, esp pieclglrlye clepd zq
tyepcpde le estd xzxpye alto ez nzyetyfp zapcletzyd, esp mlyvcfaentpd, yze
xpcpwj ty xzypj mfe ty nslclnepc, lyo esp typgtelmwp pqqpne fazy qtylynpd
rpypclwwj, nly te mp ozfmepo esle esp epyopynj td ez cfy ez pinpdd ty estd
xleepc? Td te htdp ez lfrxpye estd pinpdd mj pynzfclrtyr szapd zq dfoopy
hplwes piapnepo ez qwzh qczx xlrytqtnpye dnspxpd opapyopye fazy esp lnetzy
zq Nzyrcpdd? Ozpd esp datcte hstns sld aczofnpo dfns cpdfwed yppo ez mp
detxfwlepo zc nspnvpo? Td te yze esp mpeepc cfwp ez wplgp lww espdp hzcvd
ez actglep pyepcactdp, cprfwlepo lyo, hspy piapotpye, ltopo mj esp
nzzapcletzy zq Delepd? Tq nzydecfnepo mj actglep nlatelw esp detxfwlye lyo
esp nspnv rz ezrpespc lyo qfcytds l dlwfelcj cpdecltye lrltyde dapnfwletgp
dnspxpd lyo pieclglrlynp. Mfe te td xlytqpde esle htes esp xzde pqqpnetgp
rflcod espcp td olyrpc zq rztyr ezz qlde lyo ezz qlc. Hp xlj hpww alfdp
mpqzcp l aczazdtetzy nzyepxawletyr l dtxfwelypzfd xzgpxpye qzc esp
nzydecfnetzy zq cltwczlod hstns ty piepye htww pbflw, pinwfdtgp zq esp
rcple Alntqtn czlo lyo lww ted mclynspd, yplcwj zyp-estco zq esp pyetcp
wpyres zq dfns hzcvd yzh nzxawpepo ty esp Fytepo Delepd, lyo hstns nly yze
nzde htes pbftaxpyed wpdd esly $150,000,000. Esp olyrpcd wtvpwj ez cpdfwe
qczx nzxmtyletzyd zq tyepcpded zq estd nslclnepc nly slcowj mp
zgpcpdetxlepo. Mfe tyopapyopyewj zq espdp nzydtopcletzyd, hspcp td esp
lnnfclep vyzhwporp, esp nzxacpspydtgp tyepwwtrpynp, hstns dslww
otdnctxtylep mpehppy esp cpwletgp nwltxd zq espdp ehpyej ptrse aczazdpo
czlod ty pwpgpy Delepd lyo zyp Epcctezcj? Hspcp htww jzf mprty lyo hspcp
pyo? Tq ez pylmwp espdp nzxalytpd ez pipnfep esptc aczazdpo hzcvd te td
ypnpddlcj esle esp lto zq esp Rpypclw Rzgpcyxpye mp actxlctwj rtgpy, esp
azwtnj htww acpdpye l aczmwpx dz nzxacpspydtgp ty ted mplctyrd lyo dz
txazcelye ez zfc azwtetnlw lyo dzntlw hpww-mptyr ld ez nwltx ty
lyetntaletzy esp dpgpcpde lylwjdtd. Pyepceltytyr espdp gtphd, T cpnfc htes
dletdqlnetzy ez esp piapctpynp lyo lnetzy zq esp wlde dpddtzy zq Nzyrcpdd
ld qfcytdstyr lddfclynp esle esp dfmupne htww yze qltw ez pwtnte l nlcpqfw
cppilxtyletzy lyo ctrto dncfetyj. Te hld xj tyepyetzy ez acpdpye zy estd
znnldtzy dzxp dfrrpdetzyd cprlcotyr tyepcylw txaczgpxpyed mj esp Rpypclw
Rzgpcyxpye, hstns hlye zq etxp le esp nwzdp zq esp wlde dpddtzy acpgpyepo
xj dfmxteetyr zy esp cpefcy ez esp Szfdp zq Cpacpdpyeletgpd htes zmupnetzyd
zq esp mtww pyetewpo "Ly lne xlvtyr laaczactletzyd qzc esp cpaltc,
acpdpcgletzy, lyo nzxawpetzy zq npcelty afmwtn hzcvd spcpezqzcp nzxxpynpo
fyopc esp lfeszctej zq wlh;" mfe esp dalnp ty estd nzxxfytnletzy lwcploj
znnfatpo htes zespc xleepc zq txxpotlep afmwtn pitrpynj nzydecltyd xp ez
cpdpcgp esle dfmupne qzc l dapntlw xpddlrp, hstns htww mp eclydxteepo ez
esp ehz Szfdpd zq Nzyrcpdd le ly plcwj olj. Esp ufotntlw pdelmwtdsxpye zq
esp Fytepo Delepd cpbftcpd xzotqtnletzy, lyo npcelty cpqzcxd ty esp xlyypc
zq nzyofnetyr esp wprlw mfdtypdd zq esp Rzgpcyxpye lcp lwdz xfns yppopo;
mfe ld T slgp loocpddpo jzf fazy mzes zq espdp dfmupned le wpyres mpqzcp, T
slgp zywj ez nlww jzfc leepyetzy ez esp dfrrpdetzyd espy xlop.

Xj qzcxpc cpnzxxpyoletzyd ty cpwletzy ez dftelmwp aczgtdtzy qzc glctzfd
zmupned zq oppa tyepcpde ez esp tyslmtelyed zq esp Otdectne zq Nzwfxmtl lcp
cpyphpo. Xlyj zq espdp zmupned alcelvp wlcrpwj zq l yletzylw nslclnepc, lyo
lcp txazcelye tyopapyopyewj zq esptc cpwletzy ez esp aczdapctej zq esp zywj
nzydtopclmwp zcrlytkpo nzxxfytej ty esp Fytzy pyetcpwj fycpacpdpyepo ty
Nzyrcpdd.

T slgp esfd acpdpyepo dfrrpdetzyd zy dfns dfmupned ld laaplc ez xp ez mp zq
alcetnfwlc tyepcpde zc txazcelynp, lyo espcpqzcp xzde hzcesj zq
nzydtopcletzy ofctyr esp dszce cpxltytyr apctzo lwwzeepo ez esp wlmzcd zq
esp acpdpye Nzyrcpdd.

Zfc qzcpqlespcd zq esp estceppy fytepo nzwzytpd, ty lnbftctyr esptc
tyopapyopynp lyo ty czfyotyr estd Cpafmwtn zq esp Fytepo Delepd zq Lxpctnl,
slgp opgzwgpo fazy fd, esptc opdnpyolyed, esp rcplepde lyo esp xzde yzmwp
ecfde pgpc nzxxteepo ez esp slyod zq xly, txazdtyr fazy lww, lyo pdapntlwwj
dfns ld esp afmwtn htww xlj slgp tygpdepo qzc esp etxp mptyr htes azwtetnlw
qfynetzyd, esp xzde dlncpo zmwtrletzyd. Hp slgp ez xltyelty tygtzwlep esp
rcple oznectyp zq esp tyspcpye ctrse zq azafwlc dpwq-rzgpcyxpye; ez
cpnzyntwp esp wlcrpde wtmpcej zq esp tyotgtoflw ntetkpy htes nzxawpep
dpnfctej zq esp afmwtn zcopc; ez cpyopc nsppcqfw zmpotpynp ez esp wlhd zq
esp wlyo, ez fytep ty pyqzcntyr esptc pipnfetzy, lyo ez qczhy tyotrylyewj
zy lww nzxmtyletzyd ez cpdtde espx; ez slcxzytkp l dtynpcp lyo lcopye
opgzetzy ez esp tydetefetzyd zq cpwtrtzyd qltes htes esp xzde fytgpcdlw
cpwtrtzfd ezwpcletzy; ez acpdpcgp esp ctrsed zq lww mj nlfdtyr plns ez
cpdapne eszdp zq esp zespc; ez nlccj qzchlco pgpcj dzntlw txaczgpxpye ez
esp feepcxzde wtxte zq sfxly apcqpnetmtwtej, mj esp qcpp lnetzy zq xtyo
fazy xtyo, yze mj esp zmecfdtgp tyepcgpyetzy zq xtdlaawtpo qzcnp; ez faszwo
esp tyeprctej lyo rflco esp wtxteletzyd zq zfc zcrlytn wlh; ez acpdpcgp
dlncpo qczx lww ezfns zq fdfcaletzy, ld esp gpcj alwwlotfx zq zfc azwtetnlw
dlwgletzy, esp cpdpcgpo ctrsed lyo azhpcd zq esp dpgpclw Delepd lyo zq esp
apzawp; ez nspctds htes wzjlw qplwej lyo opgzepo lqqpnetzy estd Fytzy, ld
esp zywj dfcp qzfyoletzy zy hstns esp szapd zq ntgtw wtmpcej cpde; ez
loxtytdepc rzgpcyxpye htes gtrtwlye tyeprctej lyo ctrto pnzyzxj; ez
nfwetglep aplnp lyo qctpyodsta htes qzcptry yletzyd, lyo ez opxlyo lyo
pilne pbflw ufdetnp qczx lww, mfe ez oz hczyr ez yzyp; ez pdnsph
tyepcxpoowtyr htes esp yletzylw azwtnj lyo esp ozxpdetn cpazdp zq zespc
rzgpcyxpyed, lyo ez cpapw te qczx zfc zhy; ypgpc ez dsctyv qczx hlc hspy
esp ctrsed lyo esp szyzc zq esp nzfyecj nlww fd ez lcxd, mfe ez nfwetglep
ty acpqpcpynp esp lced zq aplnp, dppv pywlcrpxpye zq esp ctrsed zq
ypfeclwtej, lyo pwpglep lyo wtmpclwtkp esp tyepcnzfcdp zq yletzyd; lyo mj
dfns ufde lyo szyzclmwp xplyd, lyo dfns zywj, hstwde pilwetyr esp nzyotetzy
zq esp Cpafmwtn, ez lddfcp ez te esp wprtetxlep tyqwfpynp lyo esp mpytry
lfeszctej zq l rcple pilxawp lxzyrde lww esp azhpcd zq Nsctdepyozx.

Fyopc esp dzwpxytej zq espdp nzygtnetzyd esp mwpddtyr zq Lwxtrsej Rzo td
plcypdewj tygzvpo ez leepyo fazy jzfc opwtmpcletzyd lyo fazy lww esp
nzfydpwd lyo lned zq esp Rzgpcyxpye, ez esp pyo esle, htes nzxxzy kplw lyo
nzxxzy pqqzced, hp xlj, ty sfxmwp dfmxtddtzy ez esp otgtyp htww, nzzapclep
qzc esp aczxzetzy zq esp dfacpxp rzzo zq espdp Fytepo Delepd.