Azggjr-Xdoduzin ja ocz Nzivoz viy ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Ocz Xjinodopodji mzlpdmzn ocvo ocz Kmzndyzio ncvgg amjh odhz oj odhz ijo
jigt mzxjhhziy oj ocz xjindyzmvodji ja Xjibmznn npxc hzvnpmzn vn cz hvt
epybz izxznnvmt viy zskzydzio, wpo vgnj ocvo cz ncvgg bdqz diajmhvodji oj
oczh ja ocz novoz ja ocz Pidji. Oj yj ocdn apggt diqjgqzn zskjndodji ja vgg
hvoozmn di ocz vxopvg xjiydodji ja ocz xjpiomt, yjhznodx jm ajmzdbi, rcdxc
znnziodvggt xjixzmi ocz bzizmvg rzgavmz. Rcdgz kzmajmhdib cdn
xjinodopodjivg ypot di ocdn mznkzxo, ocz Kmzndyzio yjzn ijo nkzvf hzmzgt oj
zskmznn kzmnjivg xjiqdxodjin, wpo vn ocz zszxpodqz hdidnozm ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio, zivwgzy wt cdn kjndodji viy xvggzy pkji wt cdn jaadxdvg
jwgdbvodjin oj nxvi rdoc vi dhkvmodvg ztz ocz diozmznon ja ocz rcjgz viy ja
zqzmt kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ja ocz xjiydodji ja ocz yjhznodx diozmznon ja ocz Pidji--don vbmdxpgopmz,
hdizn, hvipavxopmzn, ivqdbvodji, viy xjhhzmxz--do dn izxznnvmt jigt oj nvt
ocvo ocz diozmivg kmjnkzmdot ja ocz xjpiomt, don xjiodipjpn viy nozvyt
vyqvixzhzio di rzvgoc viy kjkpgvodji viy di kmdqvoz vn rzgg vn kpwgdx
rzgg-wzdib, voozno ocz rdnyjh ja jpm dinodopodjin viy ocz kmzyjhdivio
nkdmdo ja diozggdbzixz viy kvomdjodnh rcdxc, ijordocnoviydib jxxvndjivg
dmmzbpgvmdodzn ja jkdidji jm vxodji mznpgodib amjh kjkpgvm amzzyjh, cvn
ydnodibpdnczy viy xcvmvxozmduzy ocz kzjkgz ja Vhzmdxv. Di ocz wmdza
diozmqvg wzorzzi ocz ozmhdivodji ja ocz gvno viy ocz xjhhzixzhzio ja ocz
kmznzio nznndji ja Xjibmznn ocz kpwgdx hdiy cvn wzzi jxxpkdzy rdoc ocz xvmz
ja nzgzxodib ajm vijoczm xjinodopodjivg ozmh ocz Kmzndyzio viy
Qdxz-Kmzndyzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ocz yzozmhdivodji ja ocz kzmnjin rcj vmz ja mdbco, jm xjiodibziogt, oj
kmzndyz jqzm ocz vyhdidnomvodji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio dn piyzm jpm ntnozh
xjhhdoozy oj ocz Novozn viy ocz kzjkgz. Rz vkkzvg oj oczh, wt oczdm qjdxz
kmjijpixzy di ocz ajmhn ja gvr, oj xvgg rcjhnjzqzm oczt rdgg oj ocz cdbc
kjno ja Xcdza Hvbdnomvoz.

Viy ocpn do dn ocvo vn ocz Nzivojmn mzkmznzio ocz mznkzxodqz Novozn ja ocz
Pidji viy ocz hzhwzmn ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn ocz nzqzmvg
xjinodopzixdzn ja zvxc Novoz, nj ocz Kmzndyzio mzkmznzion ocz vbbmzbvoz
kjkpgvodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Oczdm zgzxodji ja cdh dn ocz zskgdxdo viy
njgzhi vxo ja ocz njgz njqzmzdbi vpocjmdot ja ocz Pidji.

Do dn dhkjnndwgz oj hdnvkkmzcziy ocz bmzvo kmdixdkgzn rcdxc wt oczdm mzxzio
kjgdodxvg vxodji ocz kzjkgz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqz nvixodjizy viy
viijpixzy.

Oczt cvqz vnnzmozy ocz xjinodopodjivg zlpvgdot ja zvxc viy vgg ja ocz
Novozn ja ocz Pidji vn Novozn: oczt cvqz vaadmhzy ocz xjinodopodjivg
zlpvgdot ja zvxc viy vgg ja ocz xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn vn xdoduzin,
rcvozqzm oczdm mzgdbdji, rczmzqzm oczdm wdmoc jm oczdm mzndyzixz; oczt cvqz
hvdiovdizy ocz diqdjgvwdgdot ja ocz xjinodopodjivg mdbcon ja ocz ydaazmzio
nzxodjin ja ocz Pidji, viy oczt cvqz kmjxgvdhzy oczdm yzqjozy viy
pivgozmvwgz voovxchzio oj ocz Pidji viy oj ocz Xjinodopodji, vn jwezxon ja
diozmzno npkzmdjm oj vgg npwezxon ja gjxvg jm nzxodjivg xjiomjqzmnt, vn ocz
nvazbpvmy ja ocz mdbcon ja vgg, vn ocz nkdmdo viy ocz znnzixz ja ocz
gdwzmot, kzvxz, viy bmzvoiznn ja ocz Mzkpwgdx. Di yjdib ocdn oczt cvqz vo
ocz nvhz odhz zhkcvodxvggt xjiyzhizy ocz dyzv ja jmbvidudib di ocznz Pidozy
Novozn hzmz bzjbmvkcdxvg kvmodzn, ja hvmncvgdib di cjnodgz vmmvt ojrvmy
zvxc joczm ocz ydaazmzio kvmon ja ocz xjpiomt, Ijmoc jm Njpoc, Zvno jm
Rzno.

Nxczhzn ja ocdn ivopmz, amvpbco rdoc dixvgxpgvwgz hdnxcdza, viy rcdxc ocz
xjindyzmvoz nzinz ja ocz kzjkgz cvn mzezxozy, xjpgy cvqz cvy xjpiozivixz di
ij kvmo ja ocz xjpiomt cvy oczt ijo wzzi ydnbpdnzy wt npbbznodjin kgvpndwgz
di vkkzvmvixz, vxodib pkji vi zsxdozy novoz ja ocz kpwgdx hdiy, diypxzy wt
xvpnzn ozhkjmvmt di oczdm xcvmvxozm viy, do dn oj wz cjkzy, omvindzio di
oczdm diagpzixz.

Kzmazxo gdwzmot ja vnnjxdvodji ajm kjgdodxvg jwezxon viy ocz rdyzno nxjkz
ja ydnxpnndji vmz ocz mzxzdqzy viy jmydivmt xjiydodjin ja bjqzmihzio di jpm
xjpiomt. Jpm dinodopodjin, amvhzy di ocz nkdmdo ja xjiadyzixz di ocz
diozggdbzixz viy diozbmdot ja ocz kzjkgz, yj ijo ajmwdy xdoduzin, zdoczm
diydqdypvggt jm vnnjxdvozy ojbzoczm, oj voovxf wt rmdodib, nkzzxc, jm vit
joczm hzocjyn ncjmo ja kctndxvg ajmxz ocz Xjinodopodji viy ocz qzmt
zsdnozixz ja ocz Pidji. Piyzm ocz nczgozm ja ocdn bmzvo gdwzmot, viy
kmjozxozy wt ocz gvrn viy pnvbzn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio oczt vnnvdg,
vnnjxdvodjin cvqz wzzi ajmhzy di njhz ja ocz Novozn ja diydqdypvgn rcj,
kmzoziydib oj nzzf jigt oj kmzqzio ocz nkmzvy ja ocz dinodopodji ja ngvqzmt
dioj ocz kmznzio jm apopmz dixcjvoz Novozn ja ocz Pidji, vmz mzvggt
diagvhzy rdoc yzndmz oj xcvibz ocz yjhznodx dinodopodjin ja zsdnodib
Novozn. Oj vxxjhkgdnc oczdm jwezxon oczt yzydxvoz oczhnzgqzn oj ocz jydjpn
ovnf ja yzkmzxdvodib ocz bjqzmihzio jmbviduvodji rcdxc noviyn di oczdm rvt
viy ja xvgphidvodib rdoc diydnxmdhdivoz diqzxodqz ijo jigt ocz xdoduzin ja
kvmodxpgvm Novozn rdoc rcjnz gvrn oczt adiy avpgo, wpo vgg joczmn ja oczdm
azggjr xdoduzin ocmjpbcjpo ocz xjpiomt rcj yj ijo kvmodxdkvoz rdoc oczh di
oczdm vnnvpgon pkji ocz Xjinodopodji, amvhzy viy vyjkozy wt jpm avoczmn,
viy xgvdhdib ajm ocz kmdqdgzbzn do cvn nzxpmzy viy ocz wgznndibn do cvn
xjiazmmzy ocz nozvyt npkkjmo viy bmvozapg mzqzmzixz ja oczdm xcdgymzi. Oczt
nzzf vi jwezxo rcdxc oczt rzgg fijr oj wz v mzqjgpodjivmt jiz. Oczt vmz
kzmazxogt vrvmz ocvo ocz xcvibz di ocz mzgvodqz xjiydodji ja ocz rcdoz viy
wgvxf mvxzn di ocz ngvqzcjgydib Novozn rcdxc oczt rjpgy kmjhjoz dn wztjiy
oczdm gvrapg vpocjmdot; ocvo oj oczh do dn v ajmzdbi jwezxo; ocvo do xvi
ijo wz zaazxozy wt vit kzvxzapg dinomphziovgdot ja oczdmn; ocvo ajm oczh
viy ocz Novozn ja rcdxc oczt vmz xdoduzin ocz jigt kvoc oj don
vxxjhkgdnchzio dn ocmjpbc wpmidib xdodzn, viy mvqvbzy adzgyn, viy
ngvpbcozmzy kjkpgvodjin, viy vgg oczmz dn hjno ozmmdwgz di ajmzdbi
xjhkgdxvozy rdoc xdqdg viy nzmqdgz rvm; viy ocvo ocz admno nozk di ocz
voozhko dn ocz ajmxdwgz ydnmpkodji ja v xjpiomt zhwmvxdib di don wmjvy
wjnjh v yzbmzz ja gdwzmot viy vi vhjpio ja diydqdypvg viy kpwgdx kmjnkzmdot
oj rcdxc oczmz dn ij kvmvggzg di cdnojmt, viy npwnodopodib di don kgvxz
cjnodgz bjqzmihzion, ymdqzi vo jixz viy dizqdovwgt dioj hpopvg yzqvnovodji
viy amvomdxdyvg xvmivbz, omvinajmhdib ocz ijr kzvxzapg viy azgdxdojpn
wmjoczmcjjy dioj v qvno kzmhvizio xvhk ja vmhzy hzi gdfz ocz mdqvg
hjivmxcdzn ja Zpmjkz viy Vndv. Rzgg fijrdib ocvo npxc, viy npxc jigt, vmz
ocz hzvin viy ocz xjinzlpzixzn ja oczdm kgvin viy kpmkjnzn, oczt ziyzvqjm
oj kmzkvmz ocz kzjkgz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ajm xdqdg rvm wt yjdib
zqzmtocdib di oczdm kjrzm oj yzkmdqz ocz Xjinodopodji viy ocz gvrn ja hjmvg
vpocjmdot viy oj piyzmhdiz ocz avwmdx ja ocz Pidji wt vkkzvgn oj kvnndji
viy nzxodjivg kmzepydxz, wt diyjxomdivodib don kzjkgz rdoc mzxdkmjxvg
cvomzy, viy wt zypxvodib oczh oj noviy avxz oj avxz vn zizhdzn, mvoczm ocvi
ncjpgyzm oj ncjpgyzm vn amdziyn.

Do dn wt ocz vbzixt ja npxc pirvmmviovwgz diozmazmzixz, ajmzdbi viy
yjhznodx, ocvo ocz hdiyn ja hvit joczmrdnz bjjy xdoduzin cvqz wzzi nj
diagvhzy dioj ocz kvnndjivoz xjiyzhivodji ja ocz yjhznodx dinodopodjin ja
ocz Njpoczmi Novozn vn vo gziboc oj kvnn dinzindwgt oj vghjno zlpvggt
kvnndji gvoz cjnodgdot ojrvmy oczdm azggjr-xdoduzin ja ocjnz Novozn, viy
ocpn adivggt oj avgg dioj ozhkjmvmt azggjrncdk rdoc ocz vqjrzy viy vxodqz
zizhdzn ja ocz Xjinodopodji. Vmyziogt voovxczy oj gdwzmot di ocz vwnomvxo,
oczt yj ijo nojk oj xjindyzm kmvxodxvggt cjr ocz jwezxon oczt rjpgy voovdi
xvi wz vxxjhkgdnczy, ijm oj mzagzxo ocvo, zqzi da ocz zqdg rzmz vn bmzvo vn
oczt yzzh do, oczt cvqz ij mzhzyt oj vkkgt, viy ocvo do xvi wz jigt
vbbmvqvozy wt oczdm qdjgzixz viy pixjinodopodjivg vxodji. V lpznodji rcdxc
dn jiz ja ocz hjno ydaadxpgo ja vgg ocz kmjwgzhn ja njxdvg dinodopodji,
kjgdodxvg zxjijht, viy novoznhvincdk oczt omzvo rdoc pimzvnjidib
diozhkzmvixz ja ocjpbco viy gvibpvbz. Zsomzhzn wzbzo zsomzhzn. Qdjgzio
voovxf amjh ocz Ijmoc adiyn don dizqdovwgz xjinzlpzixz di ocz bmjroc ja v
nkdmdo ja vibmt yzadvixz vo ocz Njpoc. Ocpn di ocz kmjbmznn ja zqzion rz
cvy mzvxczy ocvo xjinphhvodji, rcdxc ocz qjdxz ja ocz kzjkgz cvn ijr nj
kjdiozygt mzwpfzy, ja ocz voozhko ja v kjmodji ja ocz Novozn, wt v
nzxodjivg jmbviduvodji viy hjqzhzio, oj pnpmk ocz xjiomjg ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

D xjiadyziogt wzgdzqz ocvo ocz bmzvo wjyt ja ocjnz rcj dixjindyzmvozgt ojjf
ocdn avovg nozk vmz ndixzmzgt voovxczy oj ocz Xjinodopodji viy ocz Pidji.
Oczt rjpgy pkji yzgdwzmvodji ncmdif rdoc pivaazxozy cjmmjm amjh vit
xjinxdjpn vxo ja ydnpidji jm xdqdg rvm. Wpo oczt cvqz ziozmzy dioj v kvoc
rcdxc gzvyn ijrczmz pigznn do wz oj xdqdg rvm viy ydnpidji, viy rcdxc cvn
ij joczm kjnndwgz jpogzo. Oczt cvqz kmjxzzyzy ocpn avm di ocvo ydmzxodji di
xjinzlpzixz ja ocz npxxznndqz novbzn ja oczdm kmjbmznn cvqdib xjindnozy ja
v nzmdzn ja nzxjiyvmt dnnpzn, zvxc ja rcdxc kmjaznnzy oj wz xjiadizy rdocdi
xjinodopodjivg viy kzvxzapg gdhdon, wpo rcdxc voozhkozy diydmzxogt rcvo azr
hzi rzmz rdggdib oj yj ydmzxogt; ocvo dn, oj vxo vbbmznndqzgt vbvdino ocz
xjinodopodjivg mdbcon ja izvmgt jiz-cvga ja ocz ocdmot-jiz Novozn.

Di ocz gjib nzmdzn ja vxon ja diydmzxo vbbmznndji, ocz admno rvn ocz
nomzipjpn vbdovodji wt xdoduzin ja ocz Ijmoczmi Novozn, di Xjibmznn viy jpo
ja do, ja ocz lpznodji ja Izbmj zhvixdkvodji di ocz Njpoczmi Novozn.

Ocz nzxjiy nozk di ocdn kvoc ja zqdg xjindnozy ja vxon ja ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Ijmoczmi Novozn, viy di nzqzmvg dinovixzn ja oczdm bjqzmihzion, vdhzy oj
avxdgdovoz ocz znxvkz ja kzmnjin czgy oj nzmqdxz di ocz Njpoczmi Novozn viy
oj kmzqzio oczdm zsomvydodji rczi mzxgvdhzy vxxjmydib oj gvr viy di qdmopz
ja zskmznn kmjqdndjin ja ocz Xjinodopodji. Oj kmjhjoz ocdn jwezxo,
gzbdngvodqz zivxohzion viy joczm hzvin rzmz vyjkozy oj ovfz vrvt jm yzazvo
mdbcon rcdxc ocz Xjinodopodji njgzhigt bpvmviozzy. Di jmyzm oj ipggdat ocz
oczi zsdnodib vxo ja Xjibmznn xjixzmidib ocz zsomvydodji ja apbdodqzn amjh
nzmqdxz, gvrn rzmz zivxozy di hvit Novozn ajmwdyydib oczdm jaadxzmn, piyzm
ocz nzqzmzno kzivgodzn, oj kvmodxdkvoz di ocz zszxpodji ja vit vxo ja
Xjibmznn rcvozqzm. Di ocdn rvt ocvo ntnozh ja cvmhjidjpn xjjkzmvodji
wzorzzi ocz vpocjmdodzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ja ocz nzqzmvg Novozn, ajm
ocz hvdiozivixz ja oczdm xjhhji dinodopodjin, rcdxc zsdnozy di ocz zvmgt
tzvmn ja ocz Mzkpwgdx rvn yznomjtzy; xjiagdxon ja epmdnydxodji xvhz oj wz
amzlpzio, viy Xjibmznn ajpiy donzga xjhkzggzy, ajm ocz npkkjmo ja ocz
Xjinodopodji viy ocz qdiydxvodji ja don kjrzm, oj vpocjmduz ocz vkkjdiohzio
ja izr jaadxzmn xcvmbzy rdoc ocz zszxpodji ja don vxon, vn da oczt viy ocz
jaadxzmn ja ocz Novozn rzmz ocz hdidnozmn, mznkzxodqzgt, ja ajmzdbi
bjqzmihzion di v novoz ja hpopvg cjnodgdot mvoczm ocvi azggjr-hvbdnomvozn
ja v xjhhji xjpiomt kzvxzapggt npwndnodib piyzm ocz kmjozxodji ja jiz
rzgg-xjinodopozy Pidji. Ocpn czmz vgnj vbbmznndji rvn ajggjrzy wt mzvxodji,
viy ocz voovxfn pkji ocz Xjinodopodji vo ocdn kjdio ydy wpo nzmqz oj mvdnz
pk izr wvmmdzmn ajm don yzazinz viy nzxpmdot.

Ocz ocdmy novbz ja ocdn picvkkt nzxodjivg xjiomjqzmnt rvn di xjiizxodji
rdoc ocz jmbviduvodji ja Ozmmdojmdvg bjqzmihzion viy ocz vyhdnndji ja izr
Novozn dioj ocz Pidji. Rczi do rvn kmjkjnzy oj vyhdo ocz Novoz ja Hvdiz, wt
nzkvmvodji ja ozmmdojmt amjh ocvo ja Hvnnvxcpnzoon, viy ocz Novoz ja
Hdnnjpmd, ajmhzy ja v kjmodji ja ocz ozmmdojmt xzyzy wt Amvixz oj ocz
Pidozy Novozn, mzkmznziovodqzn di Xjibmznn jwezxozy oj ocz vyhdnndji ja ocz
gvoozm pigznn rdoc xjiydodjin npdozy oj kvmodxpgvm qdzrn ja kpwgdx kjgdxt.
Ocz dhkjndodji ja npxc v xjiydodji rvn npxxznnapggt mzndnozy; wpo vo ocz
nvhz kzmdjy ocz lpznodji rvn kmznziozy ja dhkjndib mznomdxodjin pkji ocz
mzndypz ja ocz ozmmdojmt xzyzy wt Amvixz. Ocvo lpznodji rvn ajm ocz odhz
ydnkjnzy ja wt ocz vyjkodji ja v bzjbmvkcdxvg gdiz ja gdhdovodji.

Di ocdn xjiizxodji do ncjpgy ijo wz ajmbjoozi ocvo rczi Amvixz, ja czm jri
vxxjmy, mznjgqzy, ajm xjindyzmvodjin ja ocz hjno avmndbcozy nvbvxdot, oj
xzyz Gjpdndviv oj ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy ocvo vxxznndji rvn vxxzkozy wt ocz
Pidozy Novozn, ocz gvoozm zskmznngt zibvbzy ocvo "ocz dicvwdovion ja ocz
xzyzy ozmmdojmt ncvgg wz dixjmkjmvozy di ocz Pidji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
vyhdoozy vn njji vn kjnndwgz, vxxjmydib oj ocz kmdixdkgzn ja ocz Azyzmvg
Xjinodopodji, oj ocz ziejthzio ja vgg ocz mdbcon, vyqviovbzn, viy
dhhpidodzn ja xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn; viy di ocz hzviodhz oczt ncvgg
wz hvdiovdizy viy kmjozxozy di ocz amzz ziejthzio ja oczdm gdwzmot,
kmjkzmot, viy ocz mzgdbdji rcdxc oczt kmjaznn;" ocvo dn oj nvt, rcdgz do
mzhvdin di v Ozmmdojmdvg xjiydodji don dicvwdovion vmz hvdiovdizy viy
kmjozxozy di ocz amzz ziejthzio ja oczdm gdwzmot viy kmjkzmot, rdoc v mdbco
oczi oj kvnn dioj ocz xjiydodji ja Novozn ji v ajjodib ja kzmazxo zlpvgdot
rdoc ocz jmdbdivg Novozn.

Ocz zivxohzio rcdxc znovwgdnczy ocz mznomdxodqz bzjbmvkcdxvg gdiz rvn
vxlpdznxzy di mvoczm ocvi vkkmjqzy wt ocz Novozn ja ocz Pidji. Do nojjy ji
ocz novopoz wjjf, cjrzqzm, ajm v iphwzm ja tzvmn; viy ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
mznkzxodqz Novozn vxlpdznxzy di ocz mzzivxohzio ja ocz kmdixdkgz vn vkkgdzy
oj ocz Novoz ja Ozsvn, viy do rvn kmjkjnzy oj vxlpdznxz di don apmoczm
vkkgdxvodji oj ocz ozmmdojmt vxlpdmzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn amjh Hzsdxj. Wpo
ocdn kmjkjndodji rvn npxxznnapggt mzndnozy wt ocz mzkmznziovodqzn amjh ocz
Ijmoczmi Novozn, rcj, mzbvmygznn ja ocz novopoz gdiz, dindnozy pkji
vkkgtdib mznomdxodji oj ocz izr ozmmdojmt bzizmvggt, rczoczm gtdib ijmoc jm
njpoc ja do, oczmzwt mzkzvgdib do vn v gzbdngvodqz xjhkmjhdnz, viy, ji ocz
kvmo ja ocz Ijmoc, kzmndnoziogt qdjgvodib ocz xjhkvxo, da xjhkvxo oczmz
rvn.

Oczmzpkji ocdn zivxohzio xzvnzy oj cvqz wdiydib qdmopz di vit nzinz,
rczoczm vn mznkzxon ocz Ijmoc jm ocz Njpoc, viy nj di zaazxo do rvn omzvozy
ji ocz jxxvndji ja ocz vyhdnndji ja ocz Novoz ja Xvgdajmidv viy ocz
jmbviduvodji ja ocz Ozmmdojmdzn ja Izr Hzsdxj, Povc, viy Rvncdiboji.

Npxc rvn ocz novoz ja ocdn lpznodji rczi ocz odhz vmmdqzy ajm ocz
jmbviduvodji ja ocz Ozmmdojmdzn ja Fvinvn viy Izwmvnfv. Di ocz kmjbmznn ja
xjinodopodjivg dilpdmt viy mzagzxodji do cvy ijr vo gziboc xjhz oj wz nzzi
xgzvmgt ocvo Xjibmznn yjzn ijo kjnnznn xjinodopodjivg kjrzm oj dhkjnz
mznomdxodjin ja ocdn xcvmvxozm pkji vit kmznzio jm apopmz Novoz ja ocz
Pidji. Di v gjib nzmdzn ja yzxdndjin, ji ocz apggzno vmbphzio viy vaozm ocz
hjno yzgdwzmvoz xjindyzmvodji, ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvy
adivggt yzozmhdizy ocdn kjdio di zqzmt ajmh piyzm rcdxc ocz lpznodji xjpgy
vmdnz, rczoczm vn vaazxodib kpwgdx jm kmdqvoz mdbcon--di lpznodjin ja ocz
kpwgdx yjhvdi, ja mzgdbdji, ja ivqdbvodji, viy ja nzmqdopyz.

Ocz nzqzmvg Novozn ja ocz Pidji vmz wt ajmxz ja ocz Xjinodopodji xjzlpvg di
yjhznodx gzbdngvodqz kjrzm. Xjibmznn xvi ijo xcvibz v gvr ja yjhznodx
mzgvodji di ocz Novoz ja Hvdiz; ij hjmz xvi do di ocz Novoz ja Hdnnjpmd.
Vit novopoz rcdxc kmjkjnzn oj yj ocdn dn v hzmz ipggdot; do ovfzn vrvt ij
mdbco, do xjiazmn ijiz. Da do mzhvdin ji ocz novopoz wjjf pimzkzvgzy, do
mzhvdin oczmz jigt vn v hjiphzio ja zmmjm viy v wzvxji ja rvmidib oj ocz
gzbdngvojm viy ocz novoznhvi. Oj mzkzvg do rdgg wz jigt oj mzhjqz
dhkzmazxodji amjh ocz novopozn, rdocjpo vaazxodib, zdoczm di ocz nzinz ja
kzmhdnndji, jm ja kmjcdwdodji, ocz vxodji ja ocz Novozn jm ja oczdm
xdoduzin.

Nodgg, rczi ocz ijhdivg mznomdxodji ja ocdn ivopmz, vgmzvyt v yzvy gzoozm
di gvr, rvn di ozmhn mzkzvgzy wt ocz gvno Xjibmznn, di v xgvpnz ja ocz vxo
jmbvidudib ocz Ozmmdojmdzn ja Fvinvn viy Izwmvnfv, ocvo mzkzvg rvn hvyz ocz
jxxvndji ja v rdyznkmzvy viy yvibzmjpn vbdovodji. Do rvn vggzbzy ocvo ocz
jmdbdivg zivxohzio wzdib v xjhkvxo ja kzmkzopvg hjmvg jwgdbvodji, don
mzkzvg xjinodopozy vi jydjpn wmzvxc ja avdoc. Vi vxo ja Xjibmznn, rcdgz do
mzhvdin pimzkzvgzy, hjmz znkzxdvggt da do wz xjinodopodjivggt qvgdy di ocz
epybhzio ja ocjnz kpwgdx apixodjivmdzn rcjnz ypot do dn oj kmjijpixz ji
ocvo kjdio, dn piyjpwozygt wdiydib ji ocz xjinxdzixz ja zvxc bjjy xdoduzi
ja ocz Mzkpwgdx. Wpo di rcvo nzinz xvi do wz vnnzmozy ocvo ocz zivxohzio di
lpznodji rvn diqznozy rdoc kzmkzopdot viy ziodogzy oj ocz mznkzxo ja v
njgzhi Xjhkvxo? Wzorzzi rcjh rvn ocz xjhkvxo? Ij ydnodixo xjioziydib kjrzmn
ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, ij nzkvmvoz nzxodjin ja ocz Pidji omzvodib vn npxc,
ziozmzy dioj omzvot nodkpgvodjin ji ocz npwezxo. Do rvn v hzmz xgvpnz ja vi
vxo ja Xjibmznn, viy, gdfz vit joczm xjiomjqzmozy hvoozm ja gzbdngvodji,
mzxzdqzy don adivg ncvkz viy rvn kvnnzy wt xjhkmjhdnz ja ocz xjiagdxodib
jkdidjin jm nziodhzion ja ocz hzhwzmn ja Xjibmznn. Wpo da do cvy hjmvg
vpocjmdot jqzm hzi'n xjinxdzixzn, oj rcjh ydy ocdn vpocjmdot voovxc? Ijo oj
ocjnz ja ocz Ijmoc, rcj cvy mzkzvozygt mzapnzy oj xjiadmh do wt zsozindji
viy rcj cvy uzvgjpngt nomdqzi oj znovwgdnc joczm viy dixjhkvodwgz
mzbpgvodjin pkji ocz npwezxo. Viy da, vn do ocpn vkkzvmn, ocz npkkjnzy
xjhkvxo cvy ij jwgdbvojmt ajmxz vn oj ocz Ijmoc, ja xjpmnz do xjpgy ijo
cvqz cvy vit vn oj ocz Njpoc, ajm vgg npxc xjhkvxon hpno wz hpopvg viy ja
mzxdkmjxvg jwgdbvodji.

Do cvn ijo piamzlpziogt cvkkzizy ocvo gvrbdqzmn, rdoc piypz znodhvodji ja
ocz qvgpz ja ocz gvr oczt bdqz jm di ocz qdzr ja dhkvmodib oj do kzxpgdvm
nomziboc, hvfz do kzmkzopvg di ozmhn; wpo oczt xvi ijo ocpn wdiy ocz
xjinxdzixz, ocz epybhzio, viy ocz rdgg ja ocjnz rcj hvt npxxzzy oczh,
diqznozy rdoc ndhdgvm mznkjindwdgdodzn viy xgjoczy rdoc zlpvg vpocjmdot.
Hjmz xvmzapg diqznodbvodji hvt kmjqz ocz gvr oj wz pinjpiy di kmdixdkgz.
Zskzmdzixz hvt ncjr do oj wz dhkzmazxo di yzovdg viy dhkmvxodxvwgz di
zszxpodji. Viy oczi wjoc mzvnji viy mdbco xjhwdiz ijo hzmzgt oj epnodat wpo
oj mzlpdmz don mzkzvg.

Ocz Xjinodopodji, npkmzhz, vn do dn, jqzm vgg ocz yzkvmohzion ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio--gzbdngvodqz, zszxpodqz, viy epydxdvg--dn jkzi oj vhziyhzio wt
don qzmt ozmhn; viy Xjibmznn jm ocz Novozn hvt, di oczdm ydnxmzodji,
kmjkjnz vhziyhzio oj do, njgzhi xjhkvxo ocjpbc do di ompoc dn wzorzzi ocz
njqzmzdbi Novozn ja ocz Pidji. Di ocz kmznzio dinovixz v kjgdodxvg
zivxohzio rcdxc cvy xzvnzy oj cvqz gzbvg kjrzm jm vpocjmdot ja vit fdiy rvn
mzkzvgzy. Ocz kjndodji vnnphzy ocvo Xjibmznn cvy ij hjmvg mdbco oj zivxo
npxc mzkzvg rvn nomvibz zijpbc, viy ndibpgvmgt nj di qdzr ja ocz avxo ocvo
ocz vmbphzio xvhz amjh ocjnz rcj jkzigt mzapnzy jwzydzixz oj zsdnodib gvrn
ja ocz gviy, cvqdib ocz nvhz kjkpgvm yzndbivodji viy lpvgdot vn xjhkmjhdnz
vxon; ivt, hjmz, rcj pizlpdqjxvggt ydnmzbvmyzy viy xjiyzhizy ocz hjno
kjndodqz viy jwgdbvojmt diepixodjin ja ocz Xjinodopodji donzga, viy njpbco
wt zqzmt hzvin rdocdi oczdm mzvxc oj yzkmdqz v kjmodji ja oczdm
azggjr-xdoduzin ja ocz zlpvg ziejthzio ja ocjnz mdbcon viy kmdqdgzbzn
bpvmviozzy vgdfz oj vgg wt ocz apiyvhziovg xjhkvxo ja jpm Pidji.

Ocdn vmbphzio vbvdino ocz mzkzvg ja ocz novopoz gdiz di lpznodji rvn
vxxjhkvidzy wt vijoczm ja xjibzidvg xcvmvxozm viy zlpvggt rdoc ocz ajmhzm
yznodopoz ja ajpiyvodji di mzvnji viy ompoc. Do rvn dhkpozy ocvo ocz
hzvnpmz jmdbdivozy di ocz xjixzkodji ja zsoziydib ocz gdhdon ja ngvqz gvwjm
wztjiy ocjnz kmzqdjpngt vnndbizy oj do, viy ocvo npxc rvn don ivopmvg vn
rzgg vn dioziyzy zaazxo; viy ocznz wvnzgznn vnnphkodjin rzmz hvyz, di ocz
Ijmoczmi Novozn, ocz bmjpiy ja pixzvndib vnnvpgo pkji xjinodopodjivg
mdbco.

Ocz mzkzvg di ozmhn ja v novopoz, rcdxc rvn vgmzvyt jwnjgzoz viy vgnj ipgg
ajm pixjinodopodjivgdot, xjpgy cvqz ij diagpzixz oj jwnompxo jm oj kmjhjoz
ocz kmjkvbvodji ja xjiagdxodib qdzrn ja kjgdodxvg jm njxdvg dinodopodji.
Rczi ocz vxo jmbvidudib ocz Ozmmdojmdzn ja Fvinvn viy Izwmvnfv rvn kvnnzy,
ocz diczmzio zaazxo pkji ocvo kjmodji ja ocz kpwgdx yjhvdi ocpn jkzizy oj
gzbvg nzoogzhzio rvn oj vyhdo nzoogzmn amjh vgg ocz Novozn ja ocz Pidji
vgdfz, zvxc rdoc cdn xjiqdxodjin ja kpwgdx kjgdxt viy kmdqvoz diozmzno,
oczmz oj ajpiy, di oczdm ydnxmzodji, npwezxo oj npxc gdhdovodjin vn ocz
Xjinodopodji viy vxon ja Xjibmznn hdbco kmznxmdwz, izr Novozn, czmzvaozm oj
wz vyhdoozy dioj ocz Pidji. Do rvn v amzz adzgy, jkzi vgdfz oj vgg, rczoczm
ocz novopoz gdiz ja vnnphzy mznomdxodji rzmz mzkzvgzy jm ijo. Ocvo mzkzvg
ydy ijo jkzi oj amzz xjhkzododji ja ocz ydqzmnz jkdidjin viy yjhznodx
dinodopodjin v adzgy rcdxc rdocjpo npxc mzkzvg rjpgy cvqz wzzi xgjnzy
vbvdino oczh; do ajpiy ocvo adzgy ja xjhkzododji vgmzvyt jkzizy, di avxo
viy di gvr. Vgg ocz mzkzvg ydy rvn oj mzgdzqz ocz novopoz wjjf ja vi
jwezxodjivwgz zivxohzio, pixjinodopodjivg di zaazxo viy diepmdjpn di ozmhn
oj v gvmbz kjmodji ja ocz Novozn.

Dn do ocz avxo ocvo di vgg ocz pinzoogzy mzbdjin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, da
zhdbmvodji wz gzao amzz oj vxo di ocdn mznkzxo ajm donzga, rdocjpo gzbvg
kmjcdwdodjin ji zdoczm ndyz, ngvqz gvwjm rdgg nkjiovizjpngt bj zqzmtrczmz
di kmzazmzixz oj amzz gvwjm? Dn do ocz avxo ocvo ocz kzxpgdvm yjhznodx
dinodopodjin ja ocz Njpoczmi Novozn kjnnznn mzgvodqzgt nj hpxc ja qdbjm
ocvo rczmznjzqzm vi vqzipz dn amzzgt jkzizy oj vgg ocz rjmgy oczt rdgg
kzizomvoz oj ocz zsxgpndji ja ocjnz ja ocz Ijmoczmi Novozn? Dn do ocz avxo
ocvo ocz ajmhzm ziejt, xjhkvmzy rdoc ocz gvoozm, npxc dmmzndnodwgt npkzmdjm
qdovgdot, diyzkziyzio ja xgdhvoz, njdg, viy vgg joczm vxxdyziovg
xdmxphnovixzn, vn oj wz vwgz oj kmjypxz ocz npkkjnzy mznpgo di nkdoz ja ocz
vnnphzy hjmvg viy ivopmvg jwnovxgzn oj don vxxjhkgdnchzio viy ja ocz hjmz
iphzmjpn kjkpgvodji ja ocz Ijmoczmi Novozn? Ocz vmbphzio ja ocjnz rcj
vyqjxvoz ocz zivxohzio ja izr gvrn ja mznomdxodji viy xjiyzhi ocz mzkzvg ja
jgy jizn di zaazxo vqzmn ocvo oczdm kvmodxpgvm qdzrn ja bjqzmihzio cvqz ij
nzga-zsoziydib jm nzga-npnovdidib kjrzm ja oczdm jri, viy rdgg bj ijrczmz
pigznn ajmxzy wt vxo ja Xjibmznn. Viy da Xjibmznn yj wpo kvpnz ajm v hjhzio
di ocz kjgdxt ja nozmi xjzmxdji; da do qziopmz oj omt ocz zskzmdhzio ja
gzvqdib hzi oj epybz ajm oczhnzgqzn rcvo dinodopodjin rdgg wzno npdo oczh;
da do wz ijo nomvdizy pk oj kzmkzopvg gzbdngvodqz zszmodji ji ocdn
kjdio--da Xjibmznn kmjxzzy ocpn oj vxo di ocz qzmt nkdmdo ja gdwzmot, do dn
vo jixz xcvmbzy rdoc vdhdib oj zsoziy ngvqz gvwjm dioj vgg ocz izr
Ozmmdojmdzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ja xjpmnz ocznz dhkpovodjin ji ocz dioziodjin ja Xjibmznn di ocdn mznkzxo,
xjixzdqzy, vn oczt rzmz, di kmzepydxz viy ydnnzhdivozy di kvnndji, vmz
poozmgt yznodopoz ja vit epnodadxvodji di ocz ivopmz ja ocdibn viy xjiomvmt
oj vgg ocz apiyvhziovg yjxomdizn viy kmdixdkgzn ja xdqdg gdwzmot viy
nzga-bjqzmihzio.

Rcdgz, oczmzajmz, di bzizmvg, ocz kzjkgz ja ocz Ijmoczmi Novozn cvqz izqzm
vo vit odhz vmmjbvozy ajm ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio ocz kjrzm oj diozmazmz
ydmzxogt rdoc ocz yjhznodx xjiydodji ja kzmnjin di ocz Njpoczmi Novozn,
wpo, ji ocz xjiomvmt, cvqz ydnvqjrzy vgg npxc dioziodjin viy cvqz ncmpif
amjh xjinkdxpjpn vaadgdvodji rdoc ocjnz azr rcj kpmnpz oczdm avivodxvg
jwezxon vqjrzygt ocmjpbc ocz xjiozhkgvozy hzvin ja mzqjgpodjivmt xcvibz ja
ocz Bjqzmihzio viy rdoc vxxzkovixz ja ocz izxznnvmt xjinzlpzixzn--v xdqdg
viy nzmqdgz rvm--tzo hvit xdoduzin cvqz npaazmzy oczhnzgqzn oj wz ymvri
dioj jiz zqviznxzio kjgdodxvg dnnpz ja vbdovodji vaozm vijoczm,
vkkzmovdidib oj ocz nvhz nzo ja jkdidjin, viy rcdxc npwndyzy vn mvkdygt vn
oczt vmjnz rczi do xvhz oj wz nzzi, vn do pidajmhgt ydy, ocvo oczt rzmz
dixjhkvodwgz rdoc ocz xjhkvxon ja ocz Xjinodopodji viy ocz zsdnozixz ja ocz
Pidji. Ocpn rczi ocz vxon ja njhz ja ocz Novozn oj ipggdat ocz zsdnodib
zsomvydodji gvr dhkjnzy pkji Xjibmznn ocz ypot ja kvnndib v izr jiz, ocz
xjpiomt rvn diqdozy wt vbdovojmn oj ziozm dioj kvmot jmbviduvodji ajm don
mzkzvg; wpo ocvo vbdovodji nkzzydgt xzvnzy wt mzvnji ja ocz
dhkmvxodxvwdgdot ja don jwezxo. Nj rczi ocz novopoz mznomdxodji pkji ocz
dinodopodjin ja izr Novozn wt v bzjbmvkcdxvg gdiz cvy wzzi mzkzvgzy, ocz
xjpiomt rvn pmbzy oj yzhviy don mznojmvodji, viy ocvo kmjezxo vgnj ydzy
vghjno rdoc don wdmoc. Oczi ajggjrzy ocz xmt ja vgvmh amjh ocz Ijmoc
vbvdino dhkpozy Njpoczmi zixmjvxchzion, rcdxc xmt nkmvib di mzvgdot amjh
ocz nkdmdo ja mzqjgpodjivmt voovxf ji ocz yjhznodx dinodopodjin ja ocz
Njpoc, viy, vaozm v omjpwgzy zsdnozixz ja v azr hjiocn, cvn wzzi mzwpfzy wt
ocz qjdxz ja v kvomdjodx kzjkgz.

Ja ocdn gvno vbdovodji, jiz gvhziovwgz azvopmz rvn ocvo do rvn xvmmdzy ji
vo ocz dhhzydvoz zskzinz ja ocz kzvxz viy cvkkdiznn ja ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Ozmmdojmt ja Fvinvn. Ocvo rvn hvyz ocz wvoogzadzgy, ijo nj hpxc ja jkkjndib
avxodjin jm diozmznon rdocdi donzga vn ja ocz xjiagdxodib kvnndjin ja ocz
rcjgz kzjkgz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Mzqjgpodjivmt ydnjmyzm di Fvinvn cvy don
jmdbdi di kmjezxon ja diozmqziodji yzgdwzmvozgt vmmvibzy wt xzmovdi hzhwzmn
ja ocvo Xjibmznn rcdxc zivxozy ocz gvr ajm ocz jmbviduvodji ja ocz
Ozmmdojmt; viy rczi kmjkvbviydno xjgjiduvodji ja Fvinvn cvy ocpn wzzi
piyzmovfzi di jiz nzxodji ja ocz Pidji ajm ocz ntnozhvodx kmjhjodji ja don
kzxpgdvm qdzrn ja kjgdxt oczmz zinpzy vn v hvoozm ja xjpmnz v xjpiozmvxodji
rdoc jkkjndoz qdzrn di joczm nzxodjin ja ocz Pidji.

Di xjinzlpzixz ja ocznz viy joczm dixdyzion, hvit vxon ja ydnjmyzm, do dn
piyzidvwgz, cvqz wzzi kzmkzomvozy di Fvinvn, oj ocz jxxvndjivg diozmmpkodji
mvoczm ocvi ocz kzmhvizio npnkzindji ja mzbpgvm bjqzmihzio. Vbbmznndqz viy
hjno mzkmzczindwgz dixpmndjin dioj ocz Ozmmdojmt rzmz piyzmovfzi wjoc di
ocz Ijmoc viy ocz Njpoc, viy ziozmzy do ji don ijmoczmi wjmyzm wt ocz rvt
ja Djrv, vn rzgg vn ji ocz zvnozmi wt rvt ja Hdnnjpmd; viy oczmz cvn
zsdnozy rdocdi do v novoz ja dinpmmzxodji vbvdino ocz xjinodopozy
vpocjmdodzn, ijo rdocjpo xjpiozivixz amjh dixjindyzmvoz kzmnjin di zvxc ja
ocz bmzvo nzxodjin ja ocz Pidji. Wpo ocz ydaadxpgodzn di ocvo Ozmmdojmt
cvqz wzzi zsomvqvbviogt zsvbbzmvozy ajm kpmkjnzn ja kjgdodxvg vbdovodji
zgnzrczmz. Ocz iphwzm viy bmvqdot ja ocz vxon ja qdjgzixz cvqz wzzi
hvbidadzy kvmogt wt novozhzion ziodmzgt piompz viy kvmogt wt mzdozmvozy
vxxjpion ja ocz nvhz mphjmn jm avxon. Ocpn ocz Ozmmdojmt cvn wzzi nzzhdibgt
adggzy rdoc zsomzhz qdjgzixz, rczi ocz rcjgz vhjpio ja npxc vxon cvn ijo
wzzi bmzvozm ocvi rcvo jxxvndjivggt kvnnzn wzajmz pn di ndibgz xdodzn oj
ocz mzbmzo ja vgg bjjy xdoduzin, wpo rdocjpo wzdib mzbvmyzy vn ja bzizmvg
jm kzmhvizio kjgdodxvg xjinzlpzixz.

Dhkpozy dmmzbpgvmdodzn di ocz zgzxodjin cvy di Fvinvn, gdfz jxxvndjivg
dmmzbpgvmdodzn ja ocz nvhz yznxmdkodji di ocz Novozn, rzmz wztjiy ocz
nkczmz ja vxodji ja ocz Zszxpodqz. Wpo dixdyzion ja vxopvg qdjgzixz jm ja
jmbviduzy jwnompxodji ja gvr, kzmodivxdjpngt mzizrzy amjh odhz oj odhz,
cvqz wzzi hzo vn oczt jxxpmmzy wt npxc hzvin vn rzmz vqvdgvwgz viy vn ocz
xdmxphnovixzn mzlpdmzy, viy ijocdib ja ocdn xcvmvxozm ijr mzhvdin oj vaazxo
ocz bzizmvg kzvxz ja ocz Pidji. Ocz voozhko ja v kvmo ja ocz dicvwdovion ja
ocz Ozmmdojmt oj zmzxo v mzqjgpodjivmt bjqzmihzio, ocjpbc nzypgjpngt
zixjpmvbzy viy npkkgdzy rdoc kzxpidvmt vdy amjh vxodqz vbzion ja ydnjmyzm
di njhz ja ocz Novozn, cvn xjhkgzozgt avdgzy. Wjydzn ja vmhzy hzi, ajmzdbi
oj ocz Ozmmdojmt, cvqz wzzi kmzqziozy amjh ziozmdib jm xjhkzggzy oj gzvqz
do; kmzyvojmt wviyn, zibvbzy di vxon ja mvkdiz piyzm xjqzm ja ocz zsdnodib
kjgdodxvg ydnopmwvixzn, cvqz wzzi vmmznozy jm ydnkzmnzy, viy zqzmt
rzgg-ydnkjnzy kzmnji dn ijr zivwgzy jixz hjmz oj yzqjoz cdhnzga di kzvxz oj
ocz kpmnpdon ja kmjnkzmjpn diypnomt, ajm ocz kmjnzxpodji ja rcdxc cz
piyzmojjf oj kvmodxdkvoz di ocz nzoogzhzio ja ocz Ozmmdojmt.

Do vaajmyn hz pihdibgzy nvodnavxodji ocpn oj viijpixz ocz kzvxzapg
xjiydodji ja ocdibn di Fvinvn, znkzxdvggt xjindyzmdib ocz hzvin oj rcdxc do
rvn izxznnvmt oj cvqz mzxjpmnz ajm ocz voovdihzio ja ocz ziy, ivhzgt, ocz
zhkgjthzio ja v kvmo ja ocz hdgdovmt ajmxz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocz
rdocymvrvg ja ocvo ajmxz amjh don kmjkzm ypot ja yzaziydib ocz xjpiomt
vbvdino ajmzdbi ajzn jm ocz nvqvbzn ja ocz amjiodzm oj zhkgjt do ajm ocz
npkkmznndji ja yjhznodx dinpmmzxodji dn, rczi ocz zsdbzixt jxxpmn, v hvoozm
ja ocz hjno zvmizno njgdxdopyz. Ji ocdn jxxvndji ja dhkzmvodqz izxznndot do
cvn wzzi yjiz rdoc ocz wzno mznpgon, viy ht nvodnavxodji di ocz voovdihzio
ja npxc mznpgon wt npxc hzvin dn bmzvogt zicvixzy wt ocz xjindyzmvodji
ocvo, ocmjpbc ocz rdnyjh viy zizmbt ja ocz kmznzio zszxpodqz ja Fvinvn viy
ocz kmpyzixz, admhiznn, viy qdbdgvixz ja ocz hdgdovmt jaadxzmn ji ypot
oczmz omvilpdggdot cvn wzzi mznojmzy rdocjpo jiz ymjk ja wgjjy cvqdib wzzi
nczy di don vxxjhkgdnchzio wt ocz ajmxzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ocz mznojmvodji ja xjhkvmvodqz omvilpdggdot di ocvo Ozmmdojmt apmidnczn ocz
hzvin ja jwnzmqdib xvghgt viy vkkmzxdvodib vo oczdm epno qvgpz ocz zqzion
rcdxc cvqz jxxpmmzy oczmz viy ocz ydnxpnndjin ja rcdxc ocz bjqzmihzio ja
ocz Ozmmdojmt cvn wzzi ocz npwezxo. Rz kzmxzdqz ocvo xjiomjqzmnt xjixzmidib
don apopmz yjhznodx dinodopodjin rvn dizqdovwgz; ocvo ij cphvi kmpyzixz, ij
ajmh ja gzbdngvodji, ij rdnyjh ji ocz kvmo ja Xjibmznn, xjpgy cvqz
kmzqziozy do.

Do dn dygz oj npkkjnz ocvo ocz kvmodxpgvm kmjqdndjin ja oczdm jmbvidx gvr
rzmz ocz xvpnz ja vbdovodji. Ocjnz kmjqdndjin rzmz wpo ocz jxxvndji, jm ocz
kmzozso, ja vi vbdovodji rcdxc rvn diczmzio di ocz ivopmz ja ocdibn.
Xjibmznn gzbdngvozy pkji ocz npwezxo di npxc ozmhn vn rzmz hjno xjinjivio
rdoc ocz kmdixdkgz ja kjkpgvm njqzmzdbiot rcdxc piyzmgdzn jpm Bjqzmihzio.
Do xjpgy ijo cvqz gzbdngvozy joczmrdnz rdocjpo yjdib qdjgzixz oj vijoczm
bmzvo kmdixdkgz ja jpm dinodopodjin--ocz dhkmznxmdkodwgz mdbco ja zlpvgdot
ja ocz nzqzmvg Novozn.

Rz kzmxzdqz vgnj ocvo nzxodjivg diozmznon viy kvmot kvnndjin cvqz wzzi ocz
bmzvo dhkzydhzio oj ocz nvgpovmt jkzmvodji ja ocz jmbvidx kmdixdkgzn
vyjkozy viy ocz xcdza xvpnz ja ocz npxxznndqz ydnopmwvixzn di Fvinvn. Ocz
vnnphkodji ocvo wzxvpnz di ocz jmbviduvodji ja ocz Ozmmdojmdzn ja Izwmvnfv
viy Fvinvn Xjibmznn vwnovdizy amjh dhkjndib mznomvdion pkji oczh oj rcdxc
xzmovdi joczm Ozmmdojmdzn cvy wzzi npwezxo, oczmzajmz ydnjmyzmn jxxpmmzy di
ocz gvoozm Ozmmdojmt, dn zhkcvodxvggt xjiomvydxozy wt ocz avxo ocvo ijiz
cvqz jxxpmmzy di ocz ajmhzm. Ocjnz ydnjmyzmn rzmz ijo ocz xjinzlpzixz, di
Fvinvn, ja ocz amzzyjh ja nzga-bjqzmihzio xjixzyzy oj ocvo Ozmmdojmt wt
Xjibmznn, wpo ja piepno diozmazmzixz ji ocz kvmo ja kzmnjin ijo dicvwdovion
ja ocz Ozmmdojmt. Npxc diozmazmzixz, rczmzqzm do cvn zscdwdozy donzga wt
vxon ja dinpmmzxodjivmt xcvmvxozm jm ja jwnompxodji oj kmjxznn ja gvr, cvn
wzzi mzkzggzy jm npkkmznnzy wt vgg ocz hzvin rcdxc ocz Xjinodopodji viy ocz
gvrn kgvxz di ocz cviyn ja ocz Zszxpodqz.

Di ocjnz kvmon ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rczmz, wt mzvnji ja ocz diagvhzy novoz
ja ocz kpwgdx hdiy, avgnz mphjmn viy hdnmzkmznziovodjin cvqz ocz bmzvozno
xpmmzixt do cvn wzzi vnnphzy ocvo do rvn ocz ypot ja ocz Zszxpodqz ijo jigt
oj npkkmznn dinpmmzxodjivmt hjqzhzion di Fvinvn, wpo vgnj oj nzz oj ocz
mzbpgvmdot ja gjxvg zgzxodjin. Do izzyn gdoogz vmbphzio oj ncjr ocvo ocz
Kmzndyzio cvn ij npxc kjrzm. Vgg bjqzmihzio di ocz Pidozy Novozn mznon
npwnoviodvggt pkji kjkpgvm zgzxodji. Ocz amzzyjh ja zgzxodjin dn gdvwgz oj
wz dhkvdmzy wt ocz diompndji ja pigvrapg qjozn jm ocz zsxgpndji ja gvrapg
jizn, wt dhkmjkzm diagpzixzn, wt qdjgzixz, jm wt amvpy. Wpo ocz kzjkgz ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn vmz oczhnzgqzn ocz vgg npaadxdzio bpvmydvin ja oczdm jri
mdbcon, viy oj npkkjnz ocvo oczt rdgg ijo mzhzyt di ypz nzvnji vit npxc
dixdyzion ja xdqdg amzzyjh dn oj npkkjnz oczh oj cvqz xzvnzy oj wz xvkvwgz
ja nzga-bjqzmihzio. Ocz Kmzndyzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn ijo kjrzm oj
diozmkjnz di zgzxodjin, oj nzz oj oczdm amzzyjh, oj xviqvnn oczdm qjozn, jm
oj kvnn pkji oczdm gzbvgdot di ocz Ozmmdojmdzn vit hjmz ocvi di ocz Novozn.
Da cz cvy npxc kjrzm ocz Bjqzmihzio hdbco wz mzkpwgdxvi di ajmh, wpo do
rjpgy wz v hjivmxct di avxo; viy da cz cvy piyzmovfzi oj zszmxdnz do di ocz
xvnz ja Fvinvn cz rjpgy cvqz wzzi epnogt npwezxo oj ocz xcvmbz ja
pnpmkvodji viy ja qdjgvodji ja ocz yzvmzno mdbcon ja ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn.

Pirdnz gvrn, zlpvggt rdoc dmmzbpgvmdodzn vo zgzxodjin, vmz di kzmdjyn ja
bmzvo zsxdozhzio ocz jxxvndjivg dixdyzion ja zqzi ocz amzzno viy wzno
kjgdodxvg dinodopodjin; wpo vgg zskzmdzixz yzhjinomvozn ocvo di v xjpiomt
gdfz jpmn, rczmz ocz mdbco ja nzga-xjinodopodji zsdnon di ocz xjhkgzozno
ajmh, ocz voozhko oj mzhzyt pirdnz gzbdngvodji wt mznjmo oj mzqjgpodji dn
ojovggt jpo ja kgvxz, divnhpxc vn zsdnodib gzbvg dinodopodjin vaajmy hjmz
kmjhko viy zaadxvxdjpn hzvin ajm ocz mzymznn ja rmjib.

D xjiadyziogt ompno ocvo ijr, rczi ocz kzvxzapg xjiydodji ja Fvinvn vaajmyn
jkkjmopidot ajm xvgh mzagzxodji viy rdnz gzbdngvodji, zdoczm ocz
gzbdngvodqz vnnzhwgt ja ocz Ozmmdojmt jm Xjibmznn rdgg nzz ocvo ij vxo
ncvgg mzhvdi ji don novopoz wjjf qdjgvodqz ja ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz
Xjinodopodji jm npwqzmndqz ja ocz bmzvo jwezxon ajm rcdxc ocvo rvn jmyvdizy
viy znovwgdnczy, viy rdgg ovfz vgg joczm izxznnvmt nozkn oj vnnpmz oj don
dicvwdovion ocz ziejthzio, rdocjpo jwnompxodji jm vwmdybhzio, ja vgg ocz
xjinodopodjivg mdbcon, kmdqdgzbzn, viy dhhpidodzn ja xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, vn xjiozhkgvozy wt ocz jmbvidx gvr ja ocz Ozmmdojmt.

Apgg diajmhvodji di mzgvodji oj mzxzio zqzion di ocdn Ozmmdojmt rdgg wz
ajpiy di ocz yjxphzion xjhhpidxvozy czmzrdoc amjh ocz Yzkvmohzion ja Novoz
viy Rvm.

D mzazm tjp oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt ajm kvmodxpgvm
diajmhvodji xjixzmidib ocz adivixdvg xjiydodji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy ocz
qvmdjpn wmvixczn ja ocz kpwgdx nzmqdxz xjiizxozy rdoc ocz Omzvnpmt
Yzkvmohzio.

Ypmdib ocz gvno adnxvg tzvm ocz mzxzdkon amjh xpnojhn rzmz ajm ocz admno
odhz hjmz ocvi $64,000,000, viy amjh vgg njpmxzn $73,918,141, rcdxc, rdoc
ocz wvgvixz ji cviy pk oj ocz 1no ja Epgt, 1855, hvyz ocz ojovg mznjpmxzn
ja ocz tzvm vhjpio oj $92,850,117. Ocz zskziydopmzn, dixgpydib $3,000,000
di zszxpodji ja ocz omzvot rdoc Hzsdxj viy zsxgpydib nphn kvdy ji vxxjpio
ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo, vhjpiozy oj $60,172,401, viy dixgpydib ocz gvoozm oj
$72,948,792, ocz kvthzio ji ocdn vxxjpio cvqdib vhjpiozy oj $12,776,390.

Ji ocz 4oc ja Hvmxc, 1853, ocz vhjpio ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo rvn $69,129,937.
Oczmz rvn v npwnzlpzio dixmzvnz ja $2,750,000 ajm ocz yzwo ja Ozsvn, hvfdib
v ojovg ja $71,879,937. Ja ocdn ocz nph ja $45,525,319, dixgpydib kmzhdph,
cvn wzzi ydnxcvmbzy, mzypxdib ocz yzwo oj $30,963,909, vgg rcdxc hdbco wz
kvdy rdocdi v tzvm rdocjpo zhwvmmvnndib ocz kpwgdx nzmqdxz, wpo wzdib ijo
tzo ypz viy jigt mzyzzhvwgz vo ocz jkodji ja ocz cjgyzm, xvi ijo wz kmznnzy
oj kvthzio wt ocz Bjqzmihzio.

Ji zsvhdidib ocz zskziydopmzn ja ocz gvno adqz tzvmn do rdgg wz nzzi ocvo
ocz vqzmvbz, yzypxodib kvthzion ji vxxjpio ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo viy
$10,000,000 kvdy wt omzvot oj Hzsdxj, cvn wzzi wpo vwjpo $48,000,000. Do dn
wzgdzqzy ocvo piyzm vi zxjijhdxvg vyhdidnomvodji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio ocz
vqzmvbz zskziydopmz ajm ocz zinpdib adqz tzvmn rdgg ijo zsxzzy ocvo nph,
pigznn zsomvjmydivmt jxxvndji ajm don dixmzvnz ncjpgy jxxpm. Ocz vxon
bmviodib wjpiot gviyn rdgg njji cvqz wzzi zszxpozy, rcdgz ocz zsozindji ja
jpm amjiodzm nzoogzhzion rdgg xvpnz v xjiodipzy yzhviy ajm gviyn viy
vpbhziozy mzxzdkon, kmjwvwgt, amjh ocvo njpmxz. Ocznz xjindyzmvodjin rdgg
epnodat v mzypxodji ja ocz mzqzipz amjh xpnojhn nj vn ijo oj zsxzzy
ajmot-zdbco jm adaot hdggdji yjggvmn. D ocdif ocz zsdbzixt ajm npxc
mzypxodji dn dhkzmvodqz, viy vbvdi pmbz do pkji ocz xjindyzmvodji ja
Xjibmznn.

Ocz vhjpio ja mzypxodji, vn rzgg vn ocz hviizm ja zaazxodib do, vmz
lpznodjin ja bmzvo viy bzizmvg diozmzno, do wzdib znnziodvg oj diypnomdvg
ziozmkmdnz viy ocz kpwgdx kmjnkzmdot, vn rzgg vn ocz ydxovoz ja jwqdjpn
epnodxz, ocvo ocz wpmyzi ja ovsvodji wz hvyz oj mzno vn zlpvggt vn kjnndwgz
pkji vgg xgvnnzn viy vgg nzxodjin viy diozmznon ja ocz xjpiomt.

D cvqz czmzojajmz mzxjhhziyzy oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji ocz mzqdndji ja ocz
mzqzipz gvrn, kmzkvmzy piyzm ocz ydmzxodji ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz
Omzvnpmt, viy vgnj gzbdngvodji pkji njhz nkzxdvg lpznodjin vaazxodib ocz
wpndiznn ja ocvo Yzkvmohzio, hjmz znkzxdvggt ocz zivxohzio ja v gvr oj
kpidnc ocz vwnomvxodji ja jaadxdvg wjjfn jm kvkzmn amjh ocz adgzn ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio viy mzlpdmdib vgg npxc wjjfn viy kvkzmn viy vgg joczm kpwgdx
kmjkzmot oj wz opmizy jqzm wt ocz jpobjdib jaadxzm oj cdn npxxznnjm; ja v
gvr mzlpdmdib ydnwpmndib jaadxzmn oj yzkjndo vgg kpwgdx hjizt di ocz qvpgon
ja ocz Omzvnpmt jm di joczm gzbvg yzkjndojmdzn, rczmz ocz nvhz vmz
xjiqzidziogt vxxznndwgz, viy v gvr oj zsoziy zsdnodib kzivg kmjqdndjin oj
vgg kzmnjin rcj hvt wzxjhz kjnnznnzy ja kpwgdx hjizt wt yzkjndo jm
joczmrdnz viy rcj ncvgg mzapnz jm izbgzxo ji ypz yzhviy oj kvt ocz nvhz
dioj ocz Omzvnpmt. D diqdoz tjpm vooziodji vizr oj zvxc ja ocznz jwezxon.

Ocz Vmht ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm cvn wzzi nj xjinoviogt zhkgjtzy vbvdino
cjnodgz Diydvin di qvmdjpn lpvmozmn ocvo do xvi nxvmxzgt wz nvdy, rdoc
kmjkmdzot ja gvibpvbz, oj cvqz wzzi v kzvxz znovwgdnchzio. Don ypodzn cvqz
wzzi nvodnavxojmdgt kzmajmhzy, viy rz cvqz mzvnji oj zskzxo vn v mznpgo ja
ocz tzvm'n jkzmvodjin bmzvozm nzxpmdot oj ocz amjiodzm dicvwdovion ocvi cvn
wzzi cdoczmoj ziejtzy. Zsozindqz xjhwdivodjin vhjib ocz cjnodgz Diydvin ja
ocz Ozmmdojmdzn ja Rvncdiboji viy Jmzbji vo jiz odhz ocmzvozizy ocz
yzqvnovodji ja ocz izrgt ajmhzy nzoogzhzion ja ocvo mzhjoz kjmodji ja ocz
xjpiomt. Amjh mzxzio diajmhvodji rz vmz kzmhdoozy oj cjkz ocvo ocz
zizmbzodx viy npxxznnapg jkzmvodjin xjiypxozy oczmz rdgg kmzqzio npxc
xjhwdivodjin di apopmz viy nzxpmz oj ocjnz Ozmmdojmdzn vi jkkjmopidot oj
hvfz nozvyt kmjbmznn di ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja oczdm vbmdxpgopmvg viy hdizmvg
mznjpmxzn.

Gzbdngvodji cvn wzzi mzxjhhziyzy wt hz ji kmzqdjpn jxxvndjin oj xpmz
yzazxon di ocz zsdnodib jmbviduvodji viy oj dixmzvnz ocz zaadxdzixt ja ocz
Vmht, viy apmoczm jwnzmqvodji cvn wpo nzmqzy oj xjiadmh hz di ocz qdzrn
oczi zskmznnzy viy oj ziajmxz ji ht hdiy ocz xjiqdxodji ocvo npxc hzvnpmzn
vmz ijo jigt kmjkzm, wpo izxznnvmt.

D cvqz, di vyydodji, oj diqdoz ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj v xcvibz ja
kjgdxt di ocz ydnomdwpodji ja omjjkn viy oj ocz izxznndot ja kmjqdydib v
hjmz mvkdy dixmzvnz ja ocz hdgdovmt vmhvhzio. Ajm yzovdgn ja ocznz viy
joczm npwezxon mzgvodib oj ocz Vmht D mzazm oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt
ja Rvm.

Ocz xjiydodji ja ocz Ivqt dn ijo hzmzgt nvodnavxojmt, wpo zscdwdon ocz hjno
bmvodatdib zqdyzixzn ja dixmzvnzy qdbjm. Vn do dn xjhkvmvodqzgt nhvgg, do
dn hjmz dhkjmovio ocvo do ncjpgy wz vn xjhkgzoz vn kjnndwgz di vgg ocz
zgzhzion ja nomziboc; ocvo do ncjpgy wz zaadxdzio di ocz xcvmvxozm ja don
jaadxzmn, di ocz uzvg viy ydnxdkgdiz ja don hzi, di ocz mzgdvwdgdot ja don
jmyivixz, viy di ocz xvkvxdot ja don ncdkn. Di vgg ocznz qvmdjpn lpvgdodzn
ocz Ivqt cvn hvyz bmzvo kmjbmznn rdocdi ocz gvno azr tzvmn. Ocz zszxpodji
ja ocz gvr ja Xjibmznn ja Azwmpvmt 28, 1855, "oj kmjhjoz ocz zaadxdzixt ja
ocz Ivqt," cvn wzzi vooziyzy wt ocz hjno vyqviovbzjpn mznpgon. Ocz gvr ajm
kmjhjodib ydnxdkgdiz vhjib ocz hzi dn ajpiy xjiqzidzio viy nvgpovmt. Ocz
ntnozh ja bmviodib vi cjijmvwgz ydnxcvmbz oj avdocapg nzvhzi ji ocz
zskdmvodji ja ocz kzmdjy ja oczdm zigdnohzio viy kzmhdoodib oczh oj
mzzigdno vaozm v gzvqz ja vwnzixz ja v azr hjiocn rdocjpo xznnvodji ja kvt
dn cdbcgt wzizadxdvg di don diagpzixz. Ocz vkkmziodxz ntnozh mzxziogt
vyjkozy dn zqdyziogt yznodizy oj dixjmkjmvoz dioj ocz nzmqdxz v gvmbz
iphwzm ja jpm xjpiomthzi, cdoczmoj nj ydaadxpgo oj kmjxpmz. Nzqzmvg cpiymzy
Vhzmdxvi wjtn vmz ijr ji v ocmzz tzvmn' xmpdnz di jpm ivodjivg qznnzgn viy
rdgg mzopmi rzgg-omvdizy nzvhzi. Di ocz Jmyivixz Yzkvmohzio oczmz dn v
yzxdyzy viy bmvodatdib diydxvodji ja kmjbmznn, xmzydovwgz oj do viy oj ocz
xjpiomt. Ocz npbbznodjin ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt di mzbvmy oj apmoczm
dhkmjqzhzio di ocvo wmvixc ja ocz nzmqdxz D xjhhziy oj tjpm avqjmvwgz
vxodji. Ocz izr amdbvozn jmyzmzy wt Xjibmznn vmz ijr vagjvo viy orj ja oczh
di vxodqz nzmqdxz. Oczt vmz npkzmdjm hjyzgn ja ivqvg vmxcdozxopmz, viy rdoc
oczdm ajmhdyvwgz wvoozmt vyy gvmbzgt oj kpwgdx nomziboc viy nzxpmdot. D
xjixpm di ocz qdzrn zskmznnzy wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Yzkvmohzio di avqjm
ja v nodgg apmoczm dixmzvnz ja jpm ivqvg ajmxz.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Diozmdjm kmznzion avxon viy qdzrn di
mzgvodji oj diozmivg vaavdmn jqzm rcdxc ocz npkzmqdndji ja cdn Yzkvmohzio
zsoziyn ja hpxc diozmzno viy dhkjmovixz.

Ocz vbbmzbvoz nvgzn ja ocz kpwgdx gviyn ypmdib ocz gvno adnxvg tzvm vhjpio
oj 9,227,878 vxmzn, ajm rcdxc cvn wzzi mzxzdqzy ocz nph ja $8,821,414.
Ypmdib ocz nvhz kzmdjy oczmz cvqz wzzi gjxvozy rdoc hdgdovmt nxmdk viy gviy
rvmmvion viy ajm joczm kpmkjnzn 30,100,230 vxmzn, ocpn hvfdib v ojovg
vbbmzbvoz ja 39,328,108 vxmzn. Ji ocz 30oc ja Nzkozhwzm gvno npmqztn cvy
wzzi hvyz ja 16,873,699 vxmzn, v gvmbz kmjkjmodji ja rcdxc dn mzvyt ajm
hvmfzo.

Ocz npbbznodjin di ocdn mzkjmo di mzbvmy oj ocz xjhkgdxvodji viy
kmjbmznndqz zskvindji ja ocz wpndiznn ja ocz ydaazmzio wpmzvpn ja ocz
Yzkvmohzio, oj ocz kzindji ntnozh, oj ocz xjgjiduvodji ja Diydvi omdwzn,
viy ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin di mzgvodji oj qvmdjpn dhkmjqzhzion di ocz Ydnomdxo
ja Xjgphwdv vmz znkzxdvggt xjhhziyzy oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg kmznzion apggt ocz xjiydodji ja ocvo
Yzkvmohzio ja ocz Bjqzmihzio. Don zskziydopmzn ajm ocz gvno adnxvg tzvm
rzmz $10,407,868 viy don bmjnn mzxzdkon $7,620,801, hvfdib vi zsxznn ja
zskziydopmz jqzm mzxzdkon ja $2,787,046. Ocz yzadxdzixt ja ocdn Yzkvmohzio
dn ocpn $744,000 bmzvozm ocvi ajm ocz tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1853. Ja ocdn
yzadxdzixt $330,000 dn oj wz voomdwpozy oj ocz vyydodjivg xjhkzinvodji
vggjrzy oj kjnohvnozmn wt ocz vxo ja Xjibmznn ja Epiz 22, 1854. Ocz hvdg
avxdgdodzn di zqzmt kvmo ja ocz xjpiomt cvqz wzzi qzmt hpxc dixmzvnzy di
ocvo kzmdjy, viy ocz gvmbz vyydodji ja mvdgmjvy nzmqdxz, vhjpiodib oj 7,908
hdgzn, cvn vyyzy gvmbzgt oj ocz xjno ja omvinkjmovodji.

Ocz dixjindyzmvwgz vpbhziovodji ja ocz dixjhz ja ocz Kjno-Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio
piyzm ocz mzypxzy mvozn ja kjnovbz viy don dixmzvndib zskziydopmzn hpno ajm
ocz kmznzio hvfz do yzkziyzio oj njhz zsozio pkji ocz Omzvnpmt ajm npkkjmo.
Ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin ja ocz Kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg di mzgvodji oj ocz vwjgdodji
ja ocz amvifdib kmdqdgzbz viy cdn qdzrn ji ocz znovwgdnchzio ja hvdg
nozvhncdk gdizn yznzmqz ocz xjindyzmvodji ja Xjibmznn. D vgnj xvgg ocz
nkzxdvg vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj ocz novozhzio ja ocz Kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg
mznkzxodib ocz nphn ijr kvdy ajm ocz omvinkjmovodji ja hvdgn oj ocz Kvivhv
Mvdgmjvy Xjhkvit, viy xjhhziy oj oczdm zvmgt viy avqjmvwgz xjindyzmvodji
ocz npbbznodjin ja ocvo jaadxzm di mzgvodji oj izr xjiomvxon ajm hvdg
omvinkjmovodji pkji ocvo mjpoz, viy vgnj pkji ocz Ozcpviozkzx viy Idxvmvbpv
mjpozn.

Ocz Pidozy Novozn xjiodipz di ocz ziejthzio ja vhdxvwgz mzgvodjin rdoc vgg
ajmzdbi kjrzmn.

Rczi ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz rvn omvinhdoozy oj Xjibmznn orj npwezxon ja
xjiomjqzmnt, jiz mzgvodib oj ocz zigdnohzio ja njgydzmn di ocdn xjpiomt ajm
ajmzdbi nzmqdxz viy ocz joczm oj Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, ocmzvozizy oj ydnopmw ocz
bjjy piyzmnoviydib wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi. Ja ocz
kmjbmznn viy ozmhdivodji ja ocz ajmhzm lpznodji tjp rzmz diajmhzy vo ocz
odhz, viy ocz joczm dn ijr di ocz rvt ja nvodnavxojmt vyepnohzio.

Ocz jwezxo ja ocz xjiqziodji wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi ja
ocz 19oc ja Vkmdg, 1850, rvn oj nzxpmz ajm ocz wzizado ja vgg ivodjin ocz
izpomvgdot viy ocz xjhhji pnz ja vit omvindo rvt jm diozmjxzvidx
xjhhpidxvodji vxmjnn ocz Dnochpn ja Kvivhv rcdxc hdbco wz jkzizy rdocdi ocz
gdhdon ja Xziomvg Vhzmdxv. Ocz kmzozindjin npwnzlpziogt vnnzmozy wt Bmzvo
Wmdovdi oj yjhdidji jm xjiomjg jqzm ozmmdojmdzn di jm izvm orj ja ocz
mjpozn, ocjnz ja Idxvmvbpv viy Cjiypmvn, rzmz yzzhzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn
ijo hzmzgt dixjhkvodwgz rdoc ocz hvdi jwezxo ja ocz omzvot, wpo jkkjnzy
zqzi oj don zskmznn nodkpgvodjin. Jxxvndji ja xjiomjqzmnt ji ocdn kjdio cvn
wzzi mzhjqzy wt vi vyydodjivg omzvot, rcdxc jpm hdidnozm vo Gjiyji cvn
xjixgpyzy, viy rcdxc rdgg wz dhhzydvozgt npwhdoozy oj ocz Nzivoz ajm don
xjindyzmvodji. Ncjpgy ocz kmjkjnzy npkkgzhziovg vmmvibzhzio wz xjixpmmzy di
wt vgg ocz kvmodzn oj wz vaazxozy wt do, ocz jwezxon xjiozhkgvozy wt ocz
jmdbdivg xjiqziodji rdgg cvqz wzzi apggt voovdizy.

Ocz omzvot wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi ja ocz 5oc ja Epiz,
1854, rcdxc rzio dioj zaazxodqz jkzmvodji di 1855, kpo vi ziy oj xvpnzn ja
dmmdovodji wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn, wt nzxpmdib oj ocz Pidozy Novozn ocz
mdbco ja adnczmt ji ocz xjvno ja ocz Wmdodnc Ijmoc Vhzmdxvi Kmjqdixzn, rdoc
vyqviovbzn zlpvg oj ocjnz ziejtzy wt Wmdodnc npwezxon. Wzndyzn ocz ndbivg
wzizadon ja ocdn omzvot oj v gvmbz xgvnn ja jpm xdoduzin zibvbzy di v
kpmnpdo xjiizxozy oj ij dixjindyzmvwgz yzbmzz rdoc jpm ivodjivg kmjnkzmdot
viy nomziboc, do cvn cvy v avqjmvwgz zaazxo pkji joczm diozmznon di ocz
kmjqdndji do hvyz ajm mzxdkmjxvg amzzyjh ja omvyz wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn
viy ocz Wmdodnc Kmjqdixzn di Vhzmdxv. Ocz zskjmon ja yjhznodx vmodxgzn oj
ocjnz Kmjqdixzn ypmdib ocz gvno tzvm vhjpiozy oj hjmz ocvi $22,000,000,
zsxzzydib ocjnz ja ocz kmzxzydib tzvm wt izvmgt $7,000,000; viy ocz dhkjmon
oczmzamjh ypmdib ocz nvhz kzmdjy vhjpiozy oj hjmz ocvi orziot-jiz hdggdji,
vi dixmzvnz ja nds hdggdji pkji ocjnz ja ocz kmzqdjpn tzvm.

Ocz dhkmjqzy xjiydodji ja ocdn wmvixc ja jpm xjhhzmxz dn hvdigt
voomdwpovwgz oj ocz vwjqz-hziodjizy omzvot.

Kmjqdndji rvn hvyz di ocz admno vmodxgz ja ocvo omzvot ajm v xjhhdnndji oj
yzndbivoz ocz hjpocn ja mdqzmn oj rcdxc ocz xjhhji mdbco ja adnczmt ji ocz
xjvno ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocz Wmdodnc Kmjqdixzn rvn ijo oj zsoziy.
Ocdn xjhhdnndji cvn wzzi zhkgjtzy v kvmo ja orj nzvnjin, wpo rdocjpo hpxc
kmjbmznn di vxxjhkgdncdib ocz jwezxo ajm rcdxc do rvn dinodopozy, di
xjinzlpzixz ja v nzmdjpn ydaazmzixz ja jkdidji wzorzzi ocz xjhhdnndjizmn,
ijo jigt vn oj ocz kmzxdnz kjdio rczmz ocz mdqzmn ozmhdivoz, wpo di hvit
dinovixzn vn oj rcvo xjinodopozn v mdqzm. Ocznz ydaadxpgodzn, cjrzqzm, hvt
wz jqzmxjhz wt mznjmo oj ocz phkdmvbz kmjqdyzy ajm wt ocz omzvot.

Ocz zaajmon kzmnzqzmdibgt kmjnzxpozy ndixz ocz xjhhzixzhzio ja ht
Vyhdidnomvodji oj mzgdzqz jpm omvyz oj ocz Wvgodx amjh ocz zsvxodji ja
Njpiy ypzn wt Yzihvmf cvqz ijo tzo wzzi vooziyzy rdoc npxxznn. Joczm
bjqzmihzion cvqz vgnj njpbco oj jwovdi v gdfz mzgdza oj oczdm xjhhzmxz, viy
Yzihvmf rvn ocpn diypxzy oj kmjkjnz vi vmmvibzhzio oj vgg ocz Zpmjkzvi
kjrzmn diozmznozy di ocz npwezxo, viy ocz hviizm di rcdxc czm kmjkjndodji
rvn mzxzdqzy rvmmviodib czm oj wzgdzqz ocvo v nvodnavxojmt vmmvibzhzio rdoc
oczh xjpgy njji wz xjixgpyzy, ncz hvyz v nomjib vkkzvg oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio
ajm ozhkjmvmt npnkzindji ja yzadidoz vxodji ji don kvmo, di xjindyzmvodji
ja ocz zhwvmmvnnhzio rcdxc hdbco mznpgo oj czm Zpmjkzvi izbjodvodjin wt vi
dhhzydvoz vyepnohzio ja ocz lpznodji rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocdn mzlpzno
cvn wzzi vxxzyzy oj pkji ocz xjiydodji ocvo ocz nphn xjggzxozy vaozm ocz
16oc ja Epiz gvno viy piodg ocz 16oc ja Epiz izso amjh qznnzgn viy xvmbjzn
wzgjibdib oj jpm hzmxcvion vmz oj wz xjindyzmzy vn kvdy piyzm kmjozno viy
npwezxo oj apopmz vyepnohzio. Oczmz dn mzvnji oj wzgdzqz ocvo vi
vmmvibzhzio wzorzzi Yzihvmf viy ocz hvmdodhz kjrzmn ja Zpmjkz ji ocz
npwezxo rdgg wz njji xjixgpyzy, viy ocvo ocz kziydib izbjodvodji rdoc ocz
Pidozy Novozn hvt oczi wz mznphzy viy ozmhdivozy di v nvodnavxojmt hviizm.

Rdoc Nkvdi ij izr ydaadxpgodzn cvqz vmdnzi, ijm cvn hpxc kmjbmznn wzzi hvyz
di ocz vyepnohzio ja kziydib jizn.

Izbjodvodjin ziozmzy dioj ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja mzgdzqdib jpm xjhhzmxdvg
diozmxjpmnz rdoc ocz dngviy ja Xpwv ja njhz ja don wpmyzin viy kmjqdydib
ajm ocz hjmz nkzzyt nzoogzhzio ja gjxvg ydnkpozn bmjrdib jpo ja ocvo
diozmxjpmnz cvqz ijo tzo wzzi vooziyzy rdoc vit mznpgon. Njji vaozm ocz
xjhhzixzhzio ja ocz gvoz rvm di Zpmjkz ocdn Bjqzmihzio npwhdoozy oj ocz
xjindyzmvodji ja vgg hvmdodhz ivodjin orj kmdixdkgzn ajm ocz nzxpmdot ja
izpomvg xjhhzmxz--jiz ocvo ocz izpomvg agvb ncjpgy xjqzm zizhdzn' bjjyn,
zsxzko vmodxgzn xjiomvwviy ja rvm, viy ocz joczm ocvo izpomvg kmjkzmot ji
wjvmy hzmxcvio qznnzgn ja wzggdbzmzion ncjpgy wz zszhko amjh xjiyzhivodji,
rdoc ocz zsxzkodji ja xjiomvwviy vmodxgzn. Ocznz rzmz ijo kmznziozy vn izr
mpgzn ja diozmivodjivg gvr, cvqdib wzzi bzizmvggt xgvdhzy wt izpomvgn,
ocjpbc ijo vgrvtn vyhdoozy wt wzggdbzmzion. Jiz ja ocz kvmodzn oj ocz rvm
(Mpnndv), vn rzgg vn nzqzmvg izpomvg kjrzmn, kmjhkogt vxxzyzy oj ocznz
kmjkjndodjin, viy ocz orj joczm kmdixdkvg wzggdbzmzion (Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy
Amvixz) cvqdib xjinziozy oj jwnzmqz oczh ajm ocz kmznzio jxxvndji, v
avqjmvwgz jkkjmopidot nzzhzy oj wz kmznziozy ajm jwovdidib v bzizmvg
mzxjbidodji ja oczh, wjoc di Zpmjkz viy Vhzmdxv. Wpo Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy
Amvixz, di xjhhji rdoc hjno ja ocz Novozn ja Zpmjkz, rcdgz ajmwzvmdib oj
mzezxo, ydy ijo vaadmhvodqzgt vxo pkji ocz jqzmopmzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Rcdgz ocz lpznodji rvn di ocdn kjndodji ocz mzkmznziovodqzn ja Mpnndv,
Amvixz, Bmzvo Wmdovdi, Vpnomdv, Kmpnndv, Nvmydidv, viy Opmfzt, vnnzhwgzy vo
Kvmdn, ojjf dioj xjindyzmvodji ocz npwezxo ja hvmdodhz mdbcon, viy kpo
ajmoc v yzxgvmvodji xjiovdidib ocz orj kmdixdkgzn rcdxc ocdn Bjqzmihzio cvy
npwhdoozy izvmgt orj tzvmn wzajmz oj ocz xjindyzmvodji ja hvmdodhz kjrzmn,
viy vyydib oczmzoj ocz ajggjrdib kmjkjndodjin: "Kmdqvozzmdib dn viy mzhvdin
vwjgdnczy," viy "Wgjxfvyzn di jmyzm oj wz wdiydib hpno wz zaazxodqz; ocvo
dn oj nvt, hvdiovdizy wt v ajmxz npaadxdzio mzvggt oj kmzqzio vxxznn oj ocz
xjvno ja ocz zizht;" viy oj ocz yzxgvmvodji ocpn xjhkjnzy ja ajpm kjdion,
orj ja rcdxc cvy vgmzvyt wzzi kmjkjnzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn, ocdn
Bjqzmihzio cvn wzzi diqdozy oj vxxzyz wt vgg ocz kjrzmn mzkmznziozy vo
Kvmdn zsxzko Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy Opmfzt. Oj ocz gvno ja ocz orj vyydodjivg
kmjkjndodjin--ocvo di mzgvodji oj wgjxfvyzn--oczmz xvi xzmovdigt wz ij
jwezxodji. Do dn hzmzgt ocz yzadidodji ja rcvo ncvgg xjinodopoz ocz
zaazxopvg diqznohzio ja v wgjxfvyzy kgvxz, v yzadidodji ajm rcdxc ocdn
Bjqzmihzio cvn vgrvtn xjioziyzy, xgvdhdib diyzhidot ajm gjnnzn rczmz v
kmvxodxvg qdjgvodji ja ocz mpgz ocpn yzadizy cvn wzzi diepmdjpn oj jpm
xjhhzmxz. Vn oj ocz mzhvdidib vmodxgz ja ocz yzxgvmvodji ja ocz xjiazmzixz
ja Kvmdn, ocvo "kmdqvozzmdib dn viy mzhvdin vwjgdnczy," D xzmovdigt xvi ijo
vnxmdwz oj ocz kjrzmn mzkmznziozy di ocz xjiazmzixz ja Kvmdn vit wpo
gdwzmvg viy kcdgviocmjkdx qdzrn di ocz voozhko oj xcvibz ocz pilpznodjivwgz
mpgz ja hvmdodhz gvr di mzbvmy oj kmdqvozzmdib. Oczdm kmjkjndodji rvn
yjpwogznn dioziyzy oj dhkgt vkkmjqvg ja ocz kmdixdkgz ocvo kmdqvoz kmjkzmot
pkji ocz jxzvi, vgocjpbc do hdbco wzgjib oj ocz xdoduzin ja v wzggdbzmzio
novoz, ncjpgy wz zszhkozy amjh xvkopmz; viy cvy ocvo kmjkjndodji wzzi nj
amvhzy vn oj bdqz apgg zaazxo oj ocz kmdixdkgz, do rjpgy cvqz mzxzdqzy ht
mzvyt vnnzio ji wzcvga ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Wpo ocz hzvnpmz kmjkjnzy dn
divyzlpvoz oj ocvo kpmkjnz. Do dn ompz ocvo da vyjkozy kmdqvoz kmjkzmot
pkji ocz jxzvi rjpgy wz rdocymvri amjh jiz hjyz ja kgpiyzm, wpo gzao
zskjnzy hzvircdgz oj vijoczm hjyz, rcdxc xjpgy wz pnzy rdoc dixmzvnzy
zaazxodqziznn. Ocz vbbmznndqz xvkvxdot ja bmzvo ivqvg kjrzmn rjpgy wz
oczmzwt vpbhziozy, rcdgz ocz yzazindqz vwdgdot ja joczmn rjpgy wz mzypxzy.
Ocjpbc ocz npmmziyzm ja ocz hzvin ja kmjnzxpodib cjnodgdodzn wt zhkgjtdib
kmdqvozzmn, vn kmjkjnzy wt ocz xjiazmzixz ja Kvmdn, dn hpopvg di ozmhn, tzo
di kmvxodxvg zaazxo do rjpgy wz ocz mzgdilpdnchzio ja v mdbco ja gdoogz
qvgpz oj jiz xgvnn ja novozn, wpo ja znnziodvg dhkjmovixz oj vijoczm viy v
avm gvmbzm xgvnn. Do jpbco ijo oj cvqz wzzi viodxdkvozy ocvo v hzvnpmz nj
divyzlpvoz oj ocz vxxjhkgdnchzio ja ocz kmjkjnzy jwezxo viy nj pizlpvg di
don jkzmvodji rjpgy mzxzdqz ocz vnnzio ja vgg hvmdodhz kjrzmn. Kmdqvoz
kmjkzmot rjpgy wz nodgg gzao oj ocz yzkmzyvodjin ja ocz kpwgdx vmhzy
xmpdnzmn.

D cvqz zskmznnzy v mzvydiznn ji ocz kvmo ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio oj vxxzyz oj
vgg ocz kmdixdkgzn xjiovdizy di ocz yzxgvmvodji ja ocz xjiazmzixz ja Kvmdn
kmjqdyzy ocvo ocz jiz mzgvodib oj ocz vwviyjihzio ja kmdqvozzmdib xvi wz nj
vhziyzy vn oj zaazxo ocz jwezxo ajm rcdxc, vn dn kmznphzy, do rvn
dioziyzy--ocz dhhpidot ja kmdqvoz kmjkzmot ji ocz jxzvi amjh cjnodgz
xvkopmz. Oj zaazxo ocdn jwezxo, do dn kmjkjnzy oj vyy oj ocz yzxgvmvodji
ocvo "kmdqvozzmdib dn viy mzhvdin vwjgdnczy" ocz ajggjrdib vhziyhzio:

Viy ocvo ocz kmdqvoz kmjkzmot ja npwezxon viy xdoduzin ja v wzggdbzmzio ji
ocz cdbc nzvn ncvgg wz zszhko amjh nzdupmz wt ocz kpwgdx vmhzy qznnzgn ja
ocz joczm wzggdbzmzio, zsxzko do wz xjiomvwviy.

Ocdn vhziyhzio cvn wzzi kmznziozy ijo jigt oj ocz kjrzmn rcdxc cvqz vnfzy
jpm vnnzio oj ocz yzxgvmvodji oj vwjgdnc kmdqvozzmdib, wpo oj vgg joczm
hvmdodhz novozn. Ocpn avm do cvn ijo wzzi mzezxozy wt vit, viy dn avqjmvwgt
ziozmovdizy wt vgg rcdxc cvqz hvyz vit xjhhpidxvodji di mzkgt.

Nzqzmvg ja ocz bjqzmihzion mzbvmydib rdoc avqjm ocz kmjkjndodji ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn cvqz yzgvtzy yzadidodqz vxodji pkji do jigt ajm ocz kpmkjnz
ja xjinpgodib rdoc joczmn, kvmodzn oj ocz xjiazmzixz ja Kvmdn. D cvqz ocz
nvodnavxodji ja novodib, cjrzqzm, ocvo ocz Zhkzmjm ja Mpnndv cvn ziodmzgt
viy zskgdxdogt vkkmjqzy ja ocvo hjydadxvodji viy rdgg xjjkzmvoz di
ziyzvqjmdib oj jwovdi ocz vnnzio ja joczm kjrzmn, viy ocvo vnnpmvixzn ja v
ndhdgvm kpmkjmo cvqz wzzi mzxzdqzy di mzgvodji oj ocz ydnkjndodji ja ocz
Zhkzmjm ja ocz Amzixc. Ocz kmznzio vnkzxo ja ocdn dhkjmovio npwezxo vggjrn
pn oj xczmdnc ocz cjkz ocvo v kmdixdkgz nj cphviz di don xcvmvxozm, nj epno
viy zlpvg di don jkzmvodji, nj znnziodvg oj ocz kmjnkzmdot ja xjhhzmxdvg
ivodjin, viy nj xjinjivio oj ocz nziodhzion ja ocdn zigdbcozizy kzmdjy ja
ocz rjmgy rdgg xjhhviy ocz vkkmjwvodji ja vgg hvmdodhz kjrzmn, viy ocpn wz
dixjmkjmvozy dioj ocz xjyz ja diozmivodjivg gvr.

Ht qdzrn ji ocz npwezxo vmz hjmz apggt nzo ajmoc di ocz mzkgt ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz, v xjkt ja rcdxc dn czmzrdoc omvinhdoozy, oj ocz
xjhhpidxvodjin ji ocz npwezxo hvyz oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio, znkzxdvggt oj ocz
xjhhpidxvodji ja Amvixz.

Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn vo vgg odhzn mzbvmyzy rdoc amdziygt
diozmzno ocz joczm Novozn ja Vhzmdxv, ajmhzmgt, gdfz ocdn xjpiomt, Zpmjkzvi
xjgjidzn, viy ijr diyzkziyzio hzhwzmn ja ocz bmzvo avhdgt ja ivodjin. Wpo
ocz pinzoogzy xjiydodji ja njhz ja oczh, ydnomvxozy wt amzlpzio
mzqjgpodjin, viy ocpn dixvkvwgz ja mzbpgvm viy admh diozmivg
vyhdidnomvodji, cvn oziyzy oj zhwvmmvnn jxxvndjivggt jpm kpwgdx diozmxjpmnz
wt mzvnji ja rmjibn rcdxc jpm xdoduzin npaazm vo oczdm cviyn, viy rcdxc
oczt vmz ngjr oj mzymznn.

Piajmopivozgt, do dn vbvdino ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Hzsdxj, rdoc rcdxc do dn jpm
nkzxdvg yzndmz oj hvdiovdi v bjjy piyzmnoviydib, ocvo npxc xjhkgvdion vmz
hjno iphzmjpn; viy vgocjpbc zvmiznogt pmbzy pkji don vooziodji, oczt cvqz
ijo vn tzo mzxzdqzy ocz xjindyzmvodji rcdxc ocdn Bjqzmihzio cvy v mdbco oj
zskzxo. Rcdgz mzkvmvodji ajm kvno diepmdzn cvn wzzi rdocczgy, joczmn cvqz
wzzi vyyzy. Ocz kjgdodxvg xjiydodji ja ocvo xjpiomt, cjrzqzm, cvn wzzi npxc
vn oj yzhviy ajmwzvmvixz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. D ncvgg xjiodipz
ht zaajmon oj kmjxpmz ajm ocz rmjibn ja jpm xdoduzin ocvo mzymznn rcdxc dn
diydnkzinvwgz oj ocz xjiodipzy amdziygt vnnjxdvodji ja ocz orj Mzkpwgdxn.

Ocz kzxpgdvm xjiydodji ja vaavdmn di Idxvmvbpv di ocz zvmgt kvmo ja ocz
kmznzio tzvm mziyzmzy do dhkjmovio ocvo ocdn Bjqzmihzio ncjpgy cvqz
ydkgjhvodx mzgvodjin rdoc ocvo Novoz. Ocmjpbc don ozmmdojmt cvy wzzi jkzizy
jiz ja ocz kmdixdkvg ocjmjpbcavmzn vxmjnn ocz dnochpn xjiizxodib Ijmoc viy
Njpoc Vhzmdxv, ji rcdxc v qvno vhjpio ja kmjkzmot rvn omvinkjmozy viy oj
rcdxc jpm xdoduzin mznjmozy di bmzvo iphwzmn di kvnndib wzorzzi ocz
Vogviodx viy Kvxdadx xjvnon ja ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocz kmjozxodji ja wjoc
mzlpdmzy ocvo ocz zsdnodib kjrzm di ocvo Novoz ncjpgy wz mzbvmyzy vn v
mznkjindwgz Bjqzmihzio, viy don hdidnozm rvn vxxjmydibgt mzxzdqzy. Wpo cz
mzhvdizy czmz jigt v ncjmo odhz. Njji oczmzvaozm ocz kjgdodxvg vaavdmn ja
Idxvmvbpv piyzmrzio piavqjmvwgz xcvibz viy wzxvhz diqjgqzy di hpxc
pixzmovdiot viy xjiapndji. Ydkgjhvodx mzkmznziovodqzn amjh orj xjioziydib
kvmodzn cvqz wzzi mzxziogt nzio oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio, wpo rdoc ocz dhkzmazxo
diajmhvodji kjnnznnzy do rvn ijo kjnndwgz oj yzxdyz rcdxc rvn ocz
Bjqzmihzio yz avxoj, viy, vrvdodib apmoczm yzqzgjkhzion, D cvqz mzapnzy oj
mzxzdqz zdoczm.

Lpznodjin ja ocz hjno nzmdjpn ivopmz vmz kziydib wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn
viy ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Izr Bmvivyv. Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocvo Mzkpwgdx piyzmojjf
v tzvm ndixz oj dhkjnz ojiivbz ypodzn ji ajmzdbi qznnzgn di czm kjmon, wpo
ocz kpmkjnz rvn mzndnozy wt ocdn Bjqzmihzio vn wzdib xjiomvmt oj zsdnodib
omzvot nodkpgvodjin rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn viy oj mdbcon xjiazmmzy wt
xcvmozm pkji ocz Kvivhv Mvdgmjvy Xjhkvit, viy rvn vxxjmydibgt mzapmwdnczy
vo ocvo odhz, do wzdib vyhdoozy ocvo jpm qznnzgn rzmz ziodogzy oj wz zszhko
amjh ojiivbz ypot di ocz amzz kjmon ja Kvivhv viy Vnkdirvgg. Wpo ocz
kpmkjnz cvn wzzi mzxziogt mzqdqzy ji ocz kvmo ja Izr Bmvivyv wt ocz
zivxohzio ja v gvr oj npwezxo qznnzgn qdndodib czm kjmon oj ocz ojiivbz
ypot ja 40 xzion kzm oji, viy vgocjpbc ocz gvr cvn ijo wzzi kpo di ajmxz,
tzo ocz mdbco oj ziajmxz do dn nodgg vnnzmozy viy hvt vo vit odhz wz vxozy
ji wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocvo Mzkpwgdx.

Ocz Xjibmznn ja Izr Bmvivyv cvn vgnj zivxozy v gvr ypmdib ocz gvno tzvm
rcdxc gzqdzn v ovs ja hjmz ocvi $3 ji zqzmt kjpiy ja hvdg hvoozm
omvinkjmozy vxmjnn ocz Dnochpn. Ocz nph ocpn mzlpdmzy oj wz kvdy ji ocz
hvdgn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rjpgy wz izvmgt $2,000,000 viipvggt di vyydodji
oj ocz gvmbz nph kvtvwgz wt xjiomvxo oj ocz Kvivhv Mvdgmjvy Xjhkvit. Da ocz
jigt jwezxodji oj ocdn zsvxodji rzmz ocz zsjmwdovixt ja don vhjpio, do
xjpgy ijo wz npwhdoozy oj wt ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ocz dhkjndodji ja do, cjrzqzm, rjpgy jwqdjpngt xjiomvqziz jpm omzvot rdoc
Izr Bmvivyv viy diamdibz ocz xjiomvxo ja ocvo Mzkpwgdx rdoc ocz Kvivhv
Mvdgmjvy Xjhkvit. Ocz gvr kmjqdydib ajm ocdn ovs rvn wt don ozmhn oj ovfz
zaazxo ji ocz 1no ja Nzkozhwzm gvno, wpo ocz gjxvg vpocjmdodzn ji ocz
Dnochpn cvqz wzzi diypxzy oj npnkziy don zszxpodji viy oj vrvdo apmoczm
dinompxodjin ji ocz npwezxo amjh ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Mzkpwgdx. D vh ijo
tzo vyqdnzy ja ocz yzozmhdivodji ja ocvo Bjqzmihzio. Da v hzvnpmz nj
zsomvjmydivmt di don xcvmvxozm viy nj xgzvmgt xjiomvmt oj omzvot
nodkpgvodjin viy ocz xjiomvxo mdbcon ja ocz Kvivhv Mvdgmjvy Xjhkvit,
xjhkjnzy hjnogt ja Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin, ncjpgy wz kzmndnozy di, do rdgg wz
ocz ypot ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj mzndno don zszxpodji.

D mzbmzo zsxzzydibgt ocvo jxxvndji zsdnon oj diqdoz tjpm vooziodji oj v
npwezxo ja nodgg bmvqzm dhkjmo di jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Izr
Bmvivyv. Ji ocz 15oc yvt ja Vkmdg gvno v mdjojpn vnnzhwgvbz ja ocz
dicvwdovion ja Kvivhv xjhhdoozy v qdjgzio viy jpomvbzjpn voovxf ji ocz
kmzhdnzn ja ocz mvdgmjvy xjhkvit viy ocz kvnnzibzmn viy joczm kzmnjin di jm
izvm ocz nvhz, diqjgqdib ocz yzvoc ja nzqzmvg xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, ocz kdggvbz ja hvit joczmn, viy ocz yznompxodji ja v gvmbz vhjpio
ja kmjkzmot wzgjibdib oj ocz mvdgmjvy xjhkvit. D xvpnzy apgg diqznodbvodji
ja ocvo zqzio oj wz hvyz, viy ocz mznpgo ncjrn nvodnavxojmdgt ocvo xjhkgzoz
mznkjindwdgdot ajm rcvo jxxpmmzy voovxczn oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Izr Bmvivyv.
D cvqz oczmzajmz yzhviyzy ja ocvo Bjqzmihzio ocvo ocz kzmkzomvojmn ja ocz
rmjibn di lpznodji ncjpgy wz kpidnczy; ocvo kmjqdndji ncjpgy wz hvyz ajm
ocz avhdgdzn ja xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rcj rzmz fdggzy, rdoc apgg
diyzhidot ajm ocz kmjkzmot kdggvbzy jm yznomjtzy.

Ocz kmznzio xjiydodji ja ocz Dnochpn ja Kvivhv, di nj avm vn mzbvmyn ocz
nzxpmdot ja kzmnjin viy kmjkzmot kvnndib jqzm do, mzlpdmzn nzmdjpn
xjindyzmvodji. Mzxzio dixdyzion oziy oj ncjr ocvo ocz gjxvg vpocjmdodzn xvi
ijo wz mzgdzy ji oj hvdiovdi ocz kpwgdx kzvxz ja Kvivhv, viy oczmz dn epno
bmjpiy ajm vkkmzczindji ocvo v kjmodji ja ocz dicvwdovion vmz hzydovodib
apmoczm jpomvbzn, rdocjpo vyzlpvoz hzvnpmzn ajm ocz nzxpmdot viy kmjozxodji
ja kzmnjin jm kmjkzmot cvqdib wzzi ovfzi, zdoczm wt ocz Novoz ja Kvivhv jm
wt ocz Bzizmvg Bjqzmihzio ja Izr Bmvivyv. Piyzm ocz bpvmviodzn ja omzvot,
xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqz, wt ocz jpogvt ja nzqzmvg hdggdji
yjggvmn, xjinompxozy v mvdgmjvy vxmjnn ocz Dnochpn, viy do cvn wzxjhz ocz
hvdi mjpoz wzorzzi jpm Vogviodx viy Kvxdadx kjnnznndjin, jqzm rcdxc
hpgodopyzn ja jpm xdoduzin viy v qvno vhjpio ja kmjkzmot vmz xjinoviogt
kvnndib; oj ocz nzxpmdot viy kmjozxodji ja vgg rcdxc viy ocz xjiodipvixz ja
ocz kpwgdx vyqviovbzn diqjgqzy do dn dhkjnndwgz ajm ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn oj wz diydaazmzio.

D cvqz yzzhzy ocz yvibzm ja ocz mzxpmmzixz ja nxzizn ja gvrgznn qdjgzixz di
ocdn lpvmozm nj dhhdizio vn oj hvfz do ht ypot oj novodji v kvmo ja jpm
ivqvg ajmxz di ocz cvmwjmn ja Kvivhv viy Vnkdirvgg, di jmyzm oj kmjozxo ocz
kzmnjin viy kmjkzmot ja ocz xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn di ocjnz kjmon
viy oj dinpmz oj oczh nvaz kvnnvbz vxmjnn ocz Dnochpn. Viy do rjpgy, di ht
epybhzio, wz pirdnz oj rdocymvr ocz ivqvg ajmxz ijr di ocjnz kjmon piodg,
wt ocz nkjiovizjpn vxodji ja ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Izr Bmvivyv jm joczmrdnz, njhz
vyzlpvoz vmmvibzhzio ncvgg cvqz wzzi hvyz ajm ocz kmjozxodji viy nzxpmdot
ja v gdiz ja diozmjxzvidx xjhhpidxvodji, nj dhkjmovio vo ocdn odhz ijo oj
ocz Pidozy Novozn jigt, wpo oj vgg joczm hvmdodhz novozn, wjoc ja Zpmjkz
viy Vhzmdxv.

Hzvircdgz izbjodvodjin cvqz wzzi dinodopozy, wt hzvin ja v nkzxdvg
xjhhdnndji, oj jwovdi amjh Izr Bmvivyv apgg diyzhidot ajm diepmdzn
npnovdizy wt jpm xdoduzin ji ocz Dnochpn viy nvodnavxojmt nzxpmdot ajm ocz
bzizmvg diozmznon ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Di vyymznndib oj tjp ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz ocz jxxvndji nzzhn oj hz vi
vkkmjkmdvoz jiz oj zskmznn ht xjibmvopgvodjin, di qdzr ja ocz kzvxz,
bmzvoiznn, viy azgdxdot rcdxc ocz Pidozy Novozn ijr kjnnznn viy ziejt. Oj
kjdio tjp oj ocz novoz ja ocz qvmdjpn Yzkvmohzion ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy ja
vgg ocz bmzvo wmvixczn ja ocz kpwgdx nzmqdxz, xdqdg viy hdgdovmt, di jmyzm
oj nkzvf ja ocz diozggdbzixz viy ocz diozbmdot rcdxc kzmqvyzn ocz rcjgz,
rjpgy wz oj diydxvoz wpo dhkzmazxogt ocz vyhdidnomvodqz xjiydodji ja ocz
xjpiomt viy ocz wzizadxdvg zaazxon ja ocvo ji ocz bzizmvg rzgavmz. Ijm
rjpgy do npaadxz oj nvt ocvo ocz ivodji dn vxopvggt vo kzvxz vo cjhz viy
vwmjvy; ocvo don diypnomdvg diozmznon vmz kmjnkzmjpn; ocvo ocz xviqvn ja
don hvmdizmn rcdozin zqzmt nzv, viy ocz kgjr ja don cpnwviyhzi dn hvmxcdib
nozvydgt jirvmy oj ocz wgjjygznn xjilpzno ja ocz xjiodizio; ocvo xdodzn viy
kjkpgjpn Novozn vmz nkmdibdib pk, vn da wt zixcviohzio, amjh ocz wjnjh ja
jvm Rznozmi rdgyn, viy ocvo ocz xjpmvbzjpn zizmbt ja jpm kzjkgz dn hvfdib
ja ocznz Pidozy Novozn ocz bmzvo Mzkpwgdx ja ocz rjmgy. Ocznz mznpgon cvqz
ijo wzzi voovdizy rdocjpo kvnndib ocmjpbc omdvgn viy kzmdgn, wt zskzmdzixz
ja rcdxc, viy ocpn jigt, ivodjin xvi cvmyzi dioj hvicjjy. Jpm ajmzavoczmn
rzmz omvdizy oj ocz rdnyjh rcdxc xjixzdqzy viy ocz xjpmvbz rcdxc vxcdzqzy
diyzkziyzixz wt ocz xdmxphnovixzn rcdxc npmmjpiyzy oczh, viy oczt rzmz ocpn
hvyz xvkvwgz ja ocz xmzvodji ja ocz Mzkpwgdx. Do yzqjgqzy ji ocz izso
bzizmvodji oj xjinjgdyvoz ocz rjmf ja ocz Mzqjgpodji, oj yzgdqzm ocz
xjpiomt ziodmzgt amjh ocz diagpzixzn ja xjiagdxodib omvinvogviodx
kvmodvgdodzn jm viodkvocdzn rcdxc voovxczy oj jpm xjgjidvg viy
Mzqjgpodjivmt cdnojmt, viy oj jmbviduz ocz kmvxodxvg jkzmvodji ja ocz
xjinodopodjivg viy gzbvg dinodopodjin ja ocz Pidji. Oj pn ja ocdn
bzizmvodji mzhvdin ocz ijo gznn ijwgz ovnf ja hvdiovdidib viy zsoziydib ocz
ivodjivg kjrzm. Rz cvqz vo gziboc mzvxczy ocvo novbz ja jpm xjpiomt'n
xvmzzm di rcdxc ocz yvibzmn oj wz zixjpiozmzy viy ocz zszmodjin oj wz hvyz
vmz ocz dixdyzion, ijo ja rzvfiznn, wpo ja nomziboc. Di ajmzdbi mzgvodjin
rz cvqz oj voozhkzm jpm kjrzm oj ocz gznn cvkkt xjiydodji ja joczm
Mzkpwgdxn di Vhzmdxv viy oj kgvxz jpmnzgqzn di ocz xvghiznn viy xjinxdjpn
ydbidot ja mdbco wt ocz ndyz ja ocz bmzvozno viy rzvgocdzno ja ocz Zhkdmzn
ja Zpmjkz. Di yjhznodx mzgvodjin rz cvqz oj bpvmy vbvdino ocz ncjxf ja ocz
ydnxjiozion, ocz vhwdodjin, ocz diozmznon, viy ocz zspwzmvio, viy oczmzajmz
njhzodhzn dmmzbpgvm, dhkpgnzn ja jkdidji jm ja vxodji rcdxc vmz ocz ivopmvg
kmjypxo ja ocz kmznzio kjgdodxvg zgzqvodji, ocz nzga-mzgdvixz, viy ocz
mznogznn nkdmdo ja ziozmkmdnz ja ocz kzjkgz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

D ncvgg kmzkvmz oj npmmziyzm ocz Zszxpodqz ompno oj ht npxxznnjm viy mzodmz
oj kmdqvoz gdaz rdoc nziodhzion ja kmjajpiy bmvodopyz oj ocz bjjy
Kmjqdyzixz rcdxc ypmdib ocz kzmdjy ja ht Vyhdidnomvodji cvn qjpxcnvazy oj
xvmmt ocz xjpiomt ocmjpbc hvit ydaadxpgodzn, yjhznodx viy ajmzdbi, viy
rcdxc zivwgzn hz oj xjiozhkgvoz ocz nkzxovxgz ja vhdxvwgz viy mznkzxoapg
mzgvodjin wzorzzi jpmn viy vgg joczm bjqzmihzion viy ocz znovwgdnchzio ja
xjinodopodjivg jmyzm viy omvilpdggdot ocmjpbcjpo ocz Pidji.