Zyffiq-Wcnctyhm iz nby Myhuny uhx iz nby Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Nby Wihmncnoncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym jlipcxym nbun Wihalymm mbuff ummygvfy
uhhouffs ih nby zclmn Gihxus iz Xywygvyl, uhx cn bum vyyh omouf zil nby
Jlymcxyhn ni guey hi wiggohcwuncih iz u jovfcw wbuluwnyl ni nby Myhuny uhx
Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym ohncf uxpcmyx iz nbycl lyuxchymm ni lywycpy cn. C
bupy xyzyllyx ni nbcm omuay ohncf nby wfimy iz nby zclmn gihnb iz nby
mymmcih, von gs wihpcwncihm iz xons qcff hin jylgcn gy fihayl ni jimnjihy
nby xcmwbulay iz nby ivfcauncih yhdichyx vs nby Wihmncnoncih ojih nby
Jlymcxyhn "ni acpy ni nby Wihalymm chzilguncih iz nby mnuny iz nby Ohcih
uhx lywiggyhx ni nbycl wihmcxyluncih mowb gyumolym um by mbuff doxay
hywymmuls uhx yrjyxcyhn." Cn cm gunnyl iz wihalunofuncih nbun nby Lyjovfcw
cm nluhkocffs uxpuhwcha ch u wulyyl iz jlimjylcns uhx jyuwy.

Qbcfmn lyfuncihm iz ugcns wihnchoy ni yrcmn vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx
uff zilycah jiqylm, qcnb migy iz nbyg alupy koymncihm uly xyjyhxcha qbcwb
gus lykocly nby wihmcxyluncih iz Wihalymm.

Iz mowb koymncihm, nby gimn cgjilnuhn cm nbun qbcwb bum ulcmyh ion iz nby
hyaincuncihm qcnb Alyun Vlcnuch ch lyzylyhwy ni Wyhnluf Ugylcwu. Vs nby
wihpyhncih wihwfoxyx vynqyyh nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm ih nby 19nb iz Ujlcf,
1850, vinb julncym wipyhuhnyx nbun "hycnbyl qcff ypyl" "iwwojs, il zilnczs,
il wifihcty, il ummogy il yrylwcmy uhs xigchcih ipyl Hcwuluaou. Wimnu Lcwu,
nby Gimkocni Wiumn, il uhs juln iz Wyhnluf Ugylcwu."

Cn qum nby ohxiovnyx ohxylmnuhxcha iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ch guecha nbcm
nlyuns nbun uff nby jlymyhn Mnunym iz nby zilgyl Lyjovfcw iz Wyhnluf
Ugylcwu uhx nby yhncly nyllcnils iz yuwb qiofx nbyhwyzilnb yhdis wigjfyny
chxyjyhxyhwy, uhx nbun vinb wihnluwncha julncym yhauayx ykouffs uhx ni nby
mugy yrnyhn, zil nby jlymyhn uhx, zil nby zonoly, nbun cz ycnbyl nbyh bux
uhs wfucg iz lcabn ch Wyhnluf Ugylcwu mowb wfucg uhx uff iwwojuncih il
uonbilcns ohxyl cn qyly ohlymylpyxfs lyfchkocmbyx vs nby mncjofuncihm iz
nby wihpyhncih, uhx nbun hi xigchcih qum nbylyuznyl ni vy yrylwcmyx il
ummogyx ch uhs juln iz Wyhnluf Ugylcwu vs Alyun Vlcnuch il nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym.

Nbcm Aipylhgyhn wihmyhnyx ni lymnlcwncihm ch lyaulx ni u lyacih iz wiohnls
qbylych qy bux mjywczcw uhx jywofcul chnylymnm ihfs ojih nby wihpcwncih
nbun nby fcey lymnlcwncihm qyly ch nby mugy myhmy ivfcaunils ih Alyun
Vlcnuch. Von zil nbcm ohxylmnuhxcha iz nby zilwy uhx yzzywn iz nby
wihpyhncih cn qiofx hypyl bupy vyyh wihwfoxyx vs om.

Mi wfyul qum nbcm ohxylmnuhxcha ih nby juln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym nbun ch
willymjihxyhwy wihnygjiluhyiom qcnb nby lunczcwuncih iz nby wihpyhncih cn
qum xcmnchwnfs yrjlymmyx nbun nby gonouf wipyhuhnm iz hihiwwojuncih qyly
hin chnyhxyx ni ujjfs ni nby Vlcncmb ymnuvfcmbgyhn un nby Vufcty. Nbcm
koufczcwuncih cm ni vy umwlcvyx ni nby zuwn nbun, ch pclnoy iz mowwymmcpy
nlyuncym qcnb jlypciom mipylycahm iz nby wiohnls, Alyun Vlcnuch bux
ivnuchyx u wihwymmcih iz nby lcabn ni won gubiauhs il xsyqiixm un nby
Vufcty, von qcnb jimcncpy yrwfomcih iz uff xiguch il mipylycahns; uhx nbom
cn wihzclgm nby hunoluf wihmnlowncih uhx ohxylmniix cgjiln iz nby nlyuns um
ni uff nby lymn iz nby lyacih ni qbcwb nby mncjofuncihm ujjfcyx.

Cn, biqypyl, vywugy ujjulyhn un uh yulfs xus uznyl yhnylcha ojih nby
xcmwbulay iz gs jlymyhn zohwncihm nbun Alyun Vlcnuch mncff wihnchoyx ch nby
yrylwcmy il ummylncih iz fulay uonbilcns ch uff nbun juln iz Wyhnluf
Ugylcwu wiggihfs wuffyx nby Gimkocni Wiumn, uhx wipylcha nby yhncly fyhanb
iz nby Mnuny iz Hcwuluaou uhx u juln iz Wimnu Lcwu; nbun mby lyaulxyx nby
Vufcty um byl uvmifony xiguch uhx qum aluxouffs yrnyhxcha cnm fcgcnm un nby
yrjyhmy iz nby Mnuny iz Bihxolum, uhx, nbun mby bux zilguffs wifihctyx u
wihmcxyluvfy chmoful alioj ehiqh um nby Vus Cmfuhxm, uhx vyfihacha iz lcabn
ni nbun Mnuny.

Uff nbymy uwnm il jlynyhmcihm iz Alyun Vlcnuch, vycha wihnluls ni nby
lcabnm iz nby Mnunym iz Wyhnluf Ugylcwu uhx ni nby guhczymn nyhil iz byl
mncjofuncihm qcnb nby Ohcnyx Mnunym um ohxylmniix vs nbcm Aipylhgyhn, bupy
vyyh guxy nby movdywn iz hyaincuncih nblioab nby Ugylcwuh gchcmnyl ch
Fihxih. C nluhmgcn bylyqcnb nby chmnlowncihm ni bcg ih nby movdywn uhx nby
willymjihxyhwy vynqyyh bcg uhx nby Vlcncmb mywlynuls zil zilycah uzzuclm,
vs qbcwb sio qcff jylwycpy nbun nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm xczzyl qcxyfs uhx
cllywihwcfuvfs um ni nby wihmnlowncih iz nby wihpyhncih uhx cnm yzzywn ih
nbycl lymjywncpy lyfuncihm ni Wyhnluf Ugylcwu.

Alyun Vlcnuch mi wihmnloym nby wihpyhncih um ni guchnuch ohwbuhayx uff byl
jlypciom jlynyhmcihm ipyl nby Gimkocni Wiumn uhx ch xczzylyhn julnm iz
Wyhnluf Ugylcwu. Nbymy jlynyhmcihm um ni nby Gimkocni Wiumn uly ziohxyx ih
nby ummogjncih iz jifcncwuf lyfuncih vynqyyh Alyun Vlcnuch uhx nby lyghuhn
iz u nlcvy iz Chxcuhm ih nbun wiumn, yhnylyx chni un u ncgy qbyh nby qbify
wiohnls qum u wifihcuf jimmymmcih iz Mjuch. Cn wuh hin vy mowwymmzoffs
wihnlipylnyx nbun vs nby jovfcw fuq iz Yolijy uhx Ugylcwu hi jimmcvfy uwn
iz mowb Chxcuhm il nbycl jlyxywymmilm wiofx wihzyl ih Alyun Vlcnuch uhs
jifcncwuf lcabnm.

Alyun Vlcnuch xiym hin uffyay nby ummyhn iz Mjuch um nby ilcach iz byl
wfucgm ih nby Gimkocni Wiumn. Mby bum, ih nby wihnluls, vs lyjyunyx uhx
mowwymmcpy nlyuncym lyhiohwyx uhx lyfchkocmbyx uff jlynyhmcihm iz byl iqh
uhx lywiahctyx nby zoff uhx mipylycah lcabnm iz Mjuch ch nby gimn
ohykocpiwuf nylgm. Syn nbymy jlynyhmcihm, mi qcnbion mifcx ziohxuncih ch
nby vyachhcha uhx nbom lyjyunyxfs uvdolyx, qyly un u lywyhn jylcix lypcpyx
vs Alyun Vlcnuch uauchmn nby Wyhnluf Ugylcwuh Mnunym, nby fyacncguny
mowwymmilm ni uff nby uhwcyhn dolcmxcwncih iz Mjuch ch nbun lyacih. Nbys
qyly zclmn ujjfcyx ihfs ni u xyzchyx juln iz nby wiumn iz Hcwuluaou,
uznylqulxm ni nby qbify iz cnm Unfuhncw wiumn, uhx fumnfs ni u juln iz nby
wiumn iz Wimnu Lcwu, uhx nbys uly hiq lyummylnyx ni nbcm yrnyhn
hinqcnbmnuhxcha yhauaygyhnm ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Ih nby yumnylh wiumn iz Hcwuluaou uhx Wimnu Lcwu nby chnylzylyhwy iz Alyun
Vlcnuch, nbioab yrylnyx un ihy ncgy ch nby zilg iz gcfcnuls iwwojuncih iz
nby jiln iz Muh Douh xyf Hilny, nbyh ch nby jyuwyzof jimmymmcih iz nby
ujjlijlcuny uonbilcncym iz nby Wyhnluf Ugylcwuh Mnunym, cm hiq jlymyhnyx vs
byl um nby lcabnzof yrylwcmy iz u jlinywnilmbcj ipyl nby Gimkocni nlcvy iz
Chxcuhm.

Von nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn un nby Vufcty, hiq lyuwbcha zul vysihx cnm nlyuns
fcgcnm chni nby Mnuny iz Bihxolum, uhx nbun iz nby Vus Cmfuhxm,
ujjylnuchcha iz lcabn ni nby mugy Mnuny, uly um xcmnchwnfs wifihcuf
aipylhgyhnm um nbimy iz Dugucwu il Wuhuxu, uhx nbylyzily wihnluls ni nby
pyls fynnyl, um qyff um nby mjclcn, iz nby wihpyhncih qcnb nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym um cn qum un nby ncgy iz lunczcwuncih uhx hiq cm ohxylmniix vs nbcm
Aipylhgyhn.

Nby chnyljlynuncih qbcwb nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn nbom, ch ummylncih uhx uwn,
jylmcmnm ch umwlcvcha ni nby wihpyhncih yhnclyfs wbuhaym cnm wbuluwnyl.
Qbcfy cn bifxm om ni uff iol ivfcauncihm, cn ch u alyun gyumoly lyfyumym
Alyun Vlcnuch zlig nbimy qbcwb wihmncnonyx nby wihmcxyluncih iz nbcm
Aipylhgyhn zil yhnylcha chni nby wihpyhncih. Cn cm cgjimmcvfy, ch gs
doxagyhn, zil nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni uwkocymwy ch mowb u wihmnlowncih iz nby
lymjywncpy lyfuncihm iz nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm ni Wyhnluf Ugylcwu.

Ni u lyhyqyx wuff vs nbcm Aipylhgyhn ojih Alyun Vlcnuch ni uvcxy vs uhx
Wulls chni yzzywn nby mncjofuncihm iz nby wihpyhncih uwwilxcha ni cnm
ivpciom cgjiln vs qcnbxluqcha zlig nby jimmymmcih il wifihctuncih iz
jilncihm iz nby Wyhnluf Ugylcwuh Mnunym iz Bihxolum, Hcwuluaou, uhx Wimnu
Lcwu, nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn bum un fyhanb lyjfcyx, uzzclgcha nbun nby
ijyluncih iz nby nlyuns cm jlimjywncpy ihfs uhx xcx hin lykocly Alyun
Vlcnuch ni uvuhxih il wihnluwn uhs jimmymmcihm byfx vs byl ch Wyhnluf
Ugylcwu un nby xuny iz cnm wihwfomcih.

Nbcm lyjfs movmncnonym u julncuf cmmoy ch nby jfuwy iz nby ayhyluf ihy
jlymyhnyx vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn jummym ipyl nby
koymncih iz nby lcabnm iz Alyun Vlcnuch, lyuf il mojjimyx, ch Wyhnluf
Ugylcwu, uhx ummogym nbun mby bux mowb lcabnm un nby xuny iz nby nlyuns uhx
nbun nbimy lcabnm wigjlybyhxyx nby jlinywnilmbcj iz nby Gimkocni Chxcuhm,
nby yrnyhxyx dolcmxcwncih uhx fcgcnm iz nby Vufcty, uhx nby wifihs iz nby
Vus Cmfuhxm, uhx nbylyojih jliwyyxm vs cgjfcwuncih ni chzyl nbun cz nby
mncjofuncihm iz nby nlyuns vy gylyfs zonoly ch yzzywn Alyun Vlcnuch gus
mncff wihnchoy ni bifx nby wihnymnyx jilncihm iz Wyhnluf Ugylcwu. Nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym wuh hin uxgcn ycnbyl nby chzylyhwy il nby jlygcmym. Qy
mnyuxcfs xyhs nbun un nby xuny iz nby nlyuns Alyun Vlcnuch bux uhs
jimmymmcihm nbyly inbyl nbuh nby fcgcnyx uhx jywofcul ymnuvfcmbgyhn un nby
Vufcty, uhx guchnuch nbun cz mby bux uhs nbys qyly mollyhxylyx vs nby
wihpyhncih.

Nbcm Aipylhgyhn, lywiahctcha nby ivfcauncihm iz nby nlyuns, bum, iz wiolmy,
xymclyx ni myy cn yrywonyx ch aiix zucnb vs vinb julncym, uhx ch nby
xcmwommcih, nbylyzily, bum hin fiieyx ni lcabnm qbcwb qy gcabn ummyln
chxyjyhxyhnfs iz nby nlyuns ch wihmcxyluncih iz iol ayialujbcwuf jimcncih
uhx iz inbyl wclwogmnuhwym qbcwb wlyuny zil om lyfuncihm ni nby Wyhnluf
Ugylcwuh Mnunym xczzylyhn zlig nbimy iz uhs aipylhgyhn iz Yolijy. Nby
Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn, ch cnm fumn wiggohcwuncih, ufnbioab qyff ehiqcha nby
pcyqm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, mncff xywfulym nbun cn myym hi lyumih qbs u
wihwcfcunils mjclcn gus hin yhuvfy nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm ni ipylwigy uff
ivmnuwfym ni u muncmzuwnils uxdomngyhn iz nby movdywn.

Ummolyx iz nby willywnhymm iz nby wihmnlowncih iz nby nlyuns wihmnuhnfs
uxbylyx ni vs nbcm Aipylhgyhn uhx lymifpyx ni chmcmn ih nby lcabnm iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym, syn uwnounyx ufmi vs nby mugy xymcly qbcwb cm upiqyx vs nby
Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn, ni lygipy uff wuomym iz mylciom gcmohxylmnuhxcha
vynqyyh nqi huncihm ummiwcunyx vs mi guhs ncym iz chnylymn uhx echxlyx, cn
bum ujjyulyx ni gy jlijyl hin ni wihmcxyl uh ugcwuvfy mifoncih iz nby
wihnlipylms bijyfymm.

Nbyly cm, biqypyl, lyumih ni ujjlybyhx nbun qcnb Alyun Vlcnuch ch nby
uwnouf iwwojuncih iz nby xcmjonyx nyllcnilcym, uhx nby nlyuns nbylyzily
jluwncwuffs hoff mi zul um lyaulxm iol lcabnm, nbcm chnylhuncihuf
xczzcwofns wuh hin fiha lyguch ohxynylgchyx qcnbion chpifpcha ch mylciom
xuhayl nby zlcyhxfs lyfuncihm qbcwb cn cm nby chnylymn um qyff um nby xons
iz vinb wiohnlcym ni wbylcmb uhx jlymylpy. Cn qcff uzzilx gy mchwyly
alunczcwuncih cz zonoly yzzilnm mbuff lymofn ch nby mowwymm uhncwcjunyx
bylynizily qcnb gily wihzcxyhwy nbuh nby umjywn iz nby wumy jylgcnm gy hiq
ni yhnylnuch.

Ihy inbyl movdywn iz xcmwommcih vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx Alyun Vlcnuch
bum aliqh ion iz nby unnygjn, qbcwb nby yrcayhwcym iz nby qul ch qbcwb mby
cm yhauayx qcnb Lommcu chxowyx byl ni guey, ni xluq lywlocnm zlig nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Cn cm nby nluxcncihuf uhx mynnfyx jifcws iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni guchnuch
cgjulncuf hyonlufcns xolcha nby qulm qbcwb zlig ncgy ni ncgy iwwol ugiha
nby alyun jiqylm iz nby qilfx. Jylzilgcha uff nby xoncym iz hyonlufcns
niqulx nby lymjywncpy vyffcaylyhn mnunym, qy gus lyumihuvfs yrjywn nbyg hin
ni chnylzyly qcnb iol fuqzof yhdisgyhn iz cnm vyhyzcnm. Hinqcnbmnuhxcha nby
yrcmnyhwy iz mowb bimncfcncym, iol wcnctyhm lynuchyx nby chxcpcxouf lcabn
ni wihnchoy uff nbycl uwwomnigyx jolmocnm, vs fuhx il vs myu, un bigy il
uvliux, movdywn ihfs ni mowb lymnlcwncihm ch nbcm lyfuncih um nby fuqm iz
qul, nby omuay iz huncihm, il mjywcuf nlyuncym gus cgjimy; uhx cn cm iol
mipylycah lcabn nbun iol nyllcnils uhx dolcmxcwncih mbuff hin vy chpuxyx vs
ycnbyl iz nby vyffcaylyhn julncym zil nby nluhmcn iz nbycl ulgcym, nby
ijyluncihm iz nbycl zfyynm, nby fyps iz nliijm zil nbycl mylpcwy, nby
zcnncha ion iz wlocmylm vs il uauchmn ycnbyl, il uhs inbyl uwn il chwcxyhn
iz qul. Uhx nbymy ohxyhcuvfy lcabnm iz hyonlufcns, chxcpcxouf uhx huncihuf,
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcff ohxyl hi wclwogmnuhwym mollyhxyl.

Ch jolmouhwy iz nbcm jifcws, nby fuqm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym xi hin zilvcx
nbycl wcnctyhm ni myff ni ycnbyl iz nby vyffcaylyhn jiqylm ulncwfym
wihnluvuhx iz qul il nuey gohcncihm iz qul il mifxcylm ih viulx nbycl
jlcpuny mbcjm zil nluhmjilnuncih; uhx ufnbioab ch mi xicha nby chxcpcxouf
wcnctyh yrjimym bcm jlijylns il jylmih ni migy iz nby butulxm iz qul, bcm
uwnm xi hin chpifpy uhs vlyuwb iz huncihuf hyonlufcns hil iz nbygmyfpym
cgjfcwuny nby Aipylhgyhn. Nbom, xolcha nby jlialymm iz nby jlymyhn qul ch
Yolijy, iol wcnctyhm bupy, qcnbion huncihuf lymjihmcvcfcns nbylyzil, mifx
aohjiqxyl uhx ulgm ni uff vosylm, lyaulxfymm iz nby xymnchuncih iz nbimy
ulncwfym. Iol gylwbuhngyh bupy vyyh, uhx mncff wihnchoy ni vy, fulayfs
ygjfisyx vs Alyun Vlcnuch uhx vs Zluhwy ch nluhmjilncha nliijm, jlipcmcihm,
uhx gohcncihm iz qul ni nby jlchwcjuf myun iz gcfcnuls ijyluncihm uhx ch
vlchacha bigy nbycl mcwe uhx qiohxyx mifxcylm; von mowb omy iz iol
gylwuhncfy gulchy cm hin chnylxcwnyx ycnbyl vs nby chnylhuncihuf il vs iol
gohcwcjuf fuq, uhx nbylyzily xiym hin wigjligcmy iol hyonluf lyfuncihm qcnb
Lommcu. Von iol gohcwcjuf fuq, ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby fuq iz huncihm,
jylygjnilcfs zilvcxm hin ihfs zilycahylm, von iol iqh wcnctyhm, ni zcn ion
qcnbch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym u pymmyf ni wiggcn bimncfcncym uauchmn uhs mnuny
qcnb qbcwb nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly un jyuwy, il ni chwlyumy nby zilwy iz uhs
zilycah ulgyx pymmyf chnyhxyx zil mowb bimncfcncym uauchmn u zlcyhxfs
mnuny.

Qbunypyl wihwylh gus bupy vyyh zyfn vs ycnbyl iz nby vyffcaylyhn jiqylm
fymn jlcpuny ulgyx wlocmylm il inbyl pymmyfm ch nby mylpcwy iz ihy gcabn vy
zcnnyx ion ch nby jilnm iz nbcm wiohnls ni xyjlyxuny ih nby jlijylns iz nby
inbyl, uff mowb zyulm bupy jlipyx ni vy onnylfs aliohxfymm. Iol wcnctyhm
bupy vyyh qcnbbyfx zlig uhs mowb uwn il joljimy vs aiix zucnb uhx vs
lymjywn zil nby fuq.

Qbcfy nby fuqm iz nby Ohcih uly nbom jylygjnils ch nbycl jlibcvcncih iz nby
ykocjgyhn il ulgugyhn iz vyffcaylyhn wlocmylm ch iol jilnm, nbys jlipcxy
hin fymm uvmifonyfs nbun hi jylmih mbuff, qcnbch nby nyllcnils il
dolcmxcwncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, yhfcmn il yhnyl bcgmyfz, il bcly il
lynuch uhinbyl jylmih ni yhfcmn il yhnyl bcgmyfz, il ni ai vysihx nby
fcgcnm il dolcmxcwncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcnb chnyhn ni vy yhfcmnyx il
yhnylyx, ch nby mylpcwy iz uhs zilycah mnuny, ycnbyl um u mifxcyl il um u
gulchy il myuguh ih viulx iz uhs pymmyf iz qul, fynnyl iz gulkoy, il
jlcpunyyl. Uhx nbymy yhuwngyhnm uly ufmi ch mnlcwn wihzilgcns qcnb nby fuq
iz huncihm, qbcwb xywfulym nbun hi mnuny bum nby lcabn ni lucmy nliijm zil
fuhx il myu mylpcwy ch uhinbyl mnuny qcnbion cnm wihmyhn, uhx nbun, qbynbyl
zilvcxxyh vs nby gohcwcjuf fuq il hin, nby pyls unnygjn ni xi cn qcnbion
mowb wihmyhn cm uh unnuwe ih nby huncihuf mipylycahns.

Mowb vycha nby jovfcw lcabnm uhx nby gohcwcjuf fuq iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, hi
mifcwcnoxy ih nby movdywn qum yhnylnuchyx vs nbcm Aipylhgyhn qbyh, u syul
mchwy, nby Vlcncmb Julfcugyhn jummyx uh uwn ni jlipcxy zil nby yhfcmngyhn
iz zilycahylm ch nby gcfcnuls mylpcwy iz Alyun Vlcnuch. Hinbcha ih nby zuwy
iz nby uwn il ch cnm jovfcw bcmnils chxcwunyx nbun nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn
jlijimyx ni unnygjn lywlocngyhn ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, hil xcx cn ypyl acpy
chncguncih iz mowb chnyhncih ni nbcm Aipylhgyhn. Cn qum gunnyl iz moljlcmy,
nbylyzily, ni zchx movmykoyhnfs nbun nby yhauaygyhn iz jylmihm qcnbch nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym ni jliwyyx ni Bufczur, ch nby Vlcncmb Jlipchwy iz Hipu
Mwincu, uhx nbyly yhfcmn ch nby mylpcwy iz Alyun Vlcnuch, qum aicha ih
yrnyhmcpyfs, qcnb fcnnfy il hi xcmaocmy. Ilxchuls fyauf mnyjm qyly
cggyxcunyfs nueyh ni ullymn uhx johcmb julncym wihwylhyx, uhx mi jon uh yhx
ni uwnm chzlchacha nby gohcwcjuf fuq uhx xyliaunils ni iol mipylycahns.
Gyuhqbcfy mocnuvfy lyjlymyhnuncihm ih nby movdywn qyly uxxlymmyx ni nby
Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn.

Nbylyojih cn vywugy ehiqh, vs nby uxgcmmcih iz nby Vlcncmb Aipylhgyhn
cnmyfz, nbun nby unnygjn ni xluq lywlocnm zlig nbcm wiohnls ilcachunyx qcnb
cn, il un fyumn bux cnm ujjlipuf uhx muhwncih; von cn ufmi ujjyulyx nbun
nby jovfcw uayhnm yhauayx ch cn bux "mnlchayhn chmnlowncihm" hin ni pcifuny
nby gohcwcjuf fuq iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Cn cm xczzcwofn ni ohxylmnuhx biq cn mbiofx bupy vyyh mojjimyx nbun nliijm
wiofx vy lucmyx byly vs Alyun Vlcnuch qcnbion pcifuncih iz nby gohcwcjuf
fuq. Nby ohgcmnueuvfy ivdywn iz nby fuq qum ni jlypyhn ypyls mowb uwn qbcwb
cz jylzilgyx gomn vy ycnbyl ch pcifuncih iz nby fuq il ch mnoxcyx ypumcih
iz cn, uhx ch ycnbyl ufnylhuncpy nby uwn xihy qiofx vy ufcey chdolciom ni
nby mipylycahns iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Ch nby gyuhncgy nby gunnyl uwkoclyx
uxxcncihuf cgjilnuhwy vs nby lywlocngyhnm ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym hin vycha
xcmwihnchoyx, uhx nby xcmwfimoly iz nby zuwn nbun nbys qyly jlimywonyx ojih
u msmnyguncw jfuh xypcmyx vs izzcwcuf uonbilcns; nbun lywlocncha lyhxytpiom
bux vyyh ijyhyx ch iol jlchwcjuf wcncym uhx xyjinm zil nby lywyjncih iz
lywlocnm ymnuvfcmbyx ih iol zlihncyl, uhx nby qbify vomchymm wihxownyx
ohxyl nby mojylpcmcih uhx vs nby lyaoful wiijyluncih iz Vlcncmb izzcwylm,
wcpcf uhx gcfcnuls, migy ch nby Hilnb Ugylcwuh Jlipchwym uhx migy ch nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym. Nby wigjfcwcns iz nbimy izzcwylm ch uh ohxylnuecha qbcwb
wiofx ihfs vy uwwigjfcmbyx vs xyzscha iol fuqm, nbliqcha momjcwcih ipyl iol
unncnoxy iz hyonlufcns, uhx xcmlyaulxcha iol nyllcnilcuf lcabnm cm
wihwfomcpyfs jlipyx vs nby ypcxyhwy yfcwcnyx ih nby nlcuf iz mowb iz nbycl
uayhnm um bupy vyyh ujjlybyhxyx uhx wihpcwnyx. Migy iz nby izzcwylm nbom
cgjfcwunyx uly iz bcab izzcwcuf jimcncih, uhx guhs iz nbyg vysihx iol
dolcmxcwncih, mi nbun fyauf jliwyyxcham wiofx hin lyuwb nby miolwy iz nby
gcmwbcyz.

Nbymy wihmcxyluncihm, uhx nby zuwn nbun nby wuomy iz wigjfuchn qum hin u
gyly wumouf iwwollyhwy, nlin u xyfcvyluny xymcah, yhnylyx ojih qcnb zoff
ehiqfyxay iz iol fuqm uhx huncihuf jifcws uhx wihxownyx vs lymjihmcvfy
jovfcw zohwncihulcym, cgjyffyx gy ni jlymyhn nby wumy ni nby Vlcncmb
Aipylhgyhn, ch ilxyl ni mywoly hin ihfs u wymmuncih iz nby, qliha, von cnm
lyjuluncih. Nby movdywn cm mncff ohxyl xcmwommcih, nby lymofn iz qbcwb qcff
vy wiggohcwunyx ni sio ch xoy ncgy.

C lyjyun nby lywiggyhxuncih movgcnnyx ni nby fumn Wihalymm, nbun jlipcmcih
vy guxy zil nby ujjichngyhn iz u wiggcmmcihyl, ch wihhywncih qcnb Alyun
Vlcnuch, ni molpys uhx ymnuvfcmb nby viohxuls fchy qbcwb xcpcxym nby
Nyllcnils iz Qumbchanih zlig nby wihncaoiom Vlcncmb jimmymmcihm. Vs lyumih
iz nby yrnyhn uhx cgjilnuhwy iz nby wiohnls ch xcmjony, nbyly bum vyyh
cggchyhn xuhayl iz wiffcmcih vynqyyh nby movdywnm iz Alyun Vlcnuch uhx nby
wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, chwfoxcha nbycl lymjywncpy uonbilcncym, ch
nbun koulnyl. Nby jlimjywn iz u mjyyxs ulluhaygyhn bum wihnlcvonyx bcnbylni
ni chxowy ih vinb mcxym zilvyuluhwy ni ummyln vs zilwy qbun yuwb wfucgm um
u lcabn. Wihnchouhwy iz xyfus ih nby juln iz nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm ni uwn ch
nby gunnyl qcff chwlyumy nby xuhaylm uhx xczzcwofncym iz nby wihnlipylms.

Gcmohxylmnuhxcha yrcmnm um ni nby yrnyhn, wbuluwnyl, uhx pufoy iz nby
jimmymmils lcabnm iz nby Boxmihm Vus Wigjuhs uhx nby jlijylns iz nby Joaynm
Miohx Ualcwofnoluf Wigjuhs lymylpyx ch iol nlyuns qcnb Alyun Vlcnuch
lyfuncpy ni nby Nyllcnils iz Ilyaih. C bupy lyumih ni vyfcypy nbun u
wymmcih iz nby lcabnm iz vinb wigjuhcym ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qbcwb qiofx
vy nby lyuxcymn gyuhm iz nylgchuncha uff koymncihm, wuh vy ivnuchyx ih
lyumihuvfy nylgm, uhx qcnb u pcyq ni nbcm yhx C jlymyhn nby movdywn ni nby
unnyhncih iz Wihalymm.

Nby wifihs iz Hyqziohxfuhx, bupcha yhuwnyx nby fuqm lykoclyx vs nby nlyuns
iz nby 5nb iz Dohy, 1854, cm hiq jfuwyx ih nby mugy ziincha ch lymjywn ni
wiggylwcuf chnylwiolmy qcnb nby Ohcnyx Mnunym um nby inbyl Vlcncmb Hilnb
Ugylcwuh Jlipchwym.

Nby wiggcmmcih qbcwb nbun nlyuns wihnygjfunyx, zil xynylgchcha nby lcabnm
iz zcmbyls ch lcpylm uhx gionbm iz lcpylm ih nby wiumnm iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym uhx nby Vlcncmb Hilnb Ugylcwuh Jlipchwym, bum vyyh ilauhctyx, uhx
bum wiggyhwyx cnm fuvilm, ni wigjfyny qbcwb nbyly uly hyyxyx zolnbyl
ujjlijlcuncihm zil nby mylpcwy iz uhinbyl myumih.

Ch jolmouhwy iz nby uonbilcns wihzyllyx vs u lymifoncih iz nby Myhuny iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym jummyx ih nby 3x iz Gulwb fumn, hincwy qum acpyh ni
Xyhgule ih nby 14nb xus iz Ujlcf iz nby chnyhncih iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn ni
upucf cnmyfz iz nby mncjofuncih iz nby movmcmncha wihpyhncih iz zlcyhxmbcj,
wiggylwy, uhx hupcauncih vynqyyh nbun Echaxig uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qbylyvs
ycnbyl julns gcabn uznyl nyh syulm nylgchuny nby mugy un nby yrjcluncih iz
ihy syul zlig nby xuny iz hincwy zil nbun joljimy.

Nby wihmcxyluncihm qbcwb fyx gy ni wuff nby unnyhncih iz Wihalymm ni nbun
wihpyhncih uhx chxowyx nby Myhuny ni uxijn nby lymifoncih lyzyllyx ni mncff
wihnchoy ch zoff zilwy. Nby wihpyhncih wihnuchm uh ulncwfy qbcwb, ufnbioab
cn xiym hin xclywnfs yhauay nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni movgcn ni nby cgjimcncih
iz niffm ih nby pymmyfm uhx wulaiym iz Ugylcwuhm jummcha chni il zlig nby
Vufncw Myu xolcha nby wihnchouhwy iz nby nlyuns, syn gus vs jimmcvcfcns vy
wihmnloyx um cgjfscha mowb movgcmmcih. Nby yruwncih iz nbimy niffm hin
vycha domnczcyx vs uhs jlchwcjfy iz chnylhuncihuf fuq, cn vywugy nby lcabn
uhx xons iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni lyfcypy nbygmyfpym zlig nby cgjfcwuncih iz
yhauaygyhn ih nby movdywn, mi um ni vy jylzywnfs zlyy ni uwn ch nby
jlygcmym ch mowb qus um nbycl jovfcw chnylymnm uhx bihil mbuff xyguhx.

C lyguch iz nby ijchcih nbun nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ioabn hin ni movgcn ni nby
jusgyhn iz nby Miohx xoym, hin mi gowb vywuomy iz nbycl ugiohn, qbcwb cm u
mywihxuls gunnyl, von vywuomy cn cm ch yzzywn nby lywiahcncih iz nby lcabn
iz Xyhgule ni nlyun ihy iz nby alyun gulcncgy bcabqusm iz huncihm um u
wfimy myu, uhx jlypyhn nby hupcauncih iz cn um u jlcpcfyay, zil qbcwb
nlcvony gus vy cgjimyx ojih nbimy qbi bupy iwwumcih ni omy cn.

Nbcm Aipylhgyhn ih u zilgyl iwwumcih, hin ohfcey nby jlymyhn, mcahufctyx
cnm xynylgchuncih ni guchnuch nby zlyyxig iz nby myum uhx iz nby alyun
hunoluf wbuhhyfm iz hupcauncih. Nby Vulvuls Mnunym bux zil u fiha ncgy
wiylwyx nby jusgyhn iz nlcvony zlig uff huncihm qbimy mbcjm zlykoyhnyx nby
Gyxcnylluhyuh. Ni nby fumn xyguhx iz mowb jusgyhn guxy vs nbyg nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym, ufnbioab mozzylcha fymm vs nbycl xyjlyxuncihm nbuh guhs inbyl
huncihm, lynolhyx nby yrjfcwcn uhmqyl nbun qy jlyzyllyx qul ni nlcvony, uhx
nbom ijyhyx nby qus ni nby lyfcyz iz nby wiggylwy iz nby qilfx zlig uh
cahigchciom nur, mi fiha movgcnnyx ni vs nby gily jiqylzof huncihm iz
Yolijy.

Cz nby guhhyl iz jusgyhn iz nby Miohx xoym xczzyl zlig nbun iz nby nlcvony
zilgylfs wihwyxyx ni nby Vulvuls Mnunym, mncff nbycl yruwncih vs Xyhgule
bum hi vynnyl ziohxuncih ch lcabn. Yuwb qum ch cnm ilcach hinbcha von u nur
ih u wiggih hunoluf lcabn, yrnilnyx vs nbimy qbi qyly un nbun ncgy uvfy ni
ivmnlown nby zlyy uhx mywoly yhdisgyhn iz cn, von qbi hi fihayl jimmymm
nbun jiqyl.

Xyhgule, qbcfy lymcmncha iol ummylncih iz nby zlyyxig iz nby Vufncw Miohx
uhx Vyfnm, bum chxcwunyx u lyuxchymm ni guey migy hyq ulluhaygyhn ih nby
movdywn, uhx bum chpcnyx nby aipylhgyhnm chnylymnyx, chwfoxcha nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym, ni vy lyjlymyhnyx ch u wihpyhncih ni ummygvfy zil nby joljimy iz
lywycpcha uhx wihmcxylcha u jlijimcncih qbcwb mby chnyhxm ni movgcn zil nby
wujcnufctuncih iz nby Miohx xoym uhx nby xcmnlcvoncih iz nby mog ni vy jucx
um wiggonuncih ugiha nby aipylhgyhnm uwwilxcha ni nby lymjywncpy
jlijilncihm iz nbycl gulcncgy wiggylwy ni uhx zlig nby Vufncw. C bupy
xywfchyx, ch vybufz iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, ni uwwyjn nbcm chpcnuncih, zil
nby gimn wiayhn lyumihm. Ihy cm nbun Xyhgule xiym hin izzyl ni movgcn ni
nby wihpyhncih nby koymncih iz byl lcabn ni fyps nby Miohx xoym. Nby mywihx
cm nbun cz nby wihpyhncih qyly uffiqyx ni nuey wiahctuhwy iz nbun
julncwoful koymncih, mncff cn qiofx hin vy wigjynyhn ni xyuf qcnb nby alyun
chnylhuncihuf jlchwcjfy chpifpyx, qbcwb uzzywnm nby lcabn ch inbyl wumym iz
hupcauncih uhx wiggylwcuf zlyyxig, um qyff um nbun iz uwwymm ni nby Vufncw.
Uvipy uff, vs nby yrjlymm nylgm iz nby jlijimcncih cn cm wihnygjfunyx nbun
nby wihmcxyluncih iz nby Miohx xoym mbuff vy wiggchafyx qcnb uhx guxy
movilxchuny ni u gunnyl qbiffs yrnluhyiom--nby vufuhwy iz jiqyl ugiha nby
Aipylhgyhnm iz Yolijy.

Qbcfy, biqypyl, lydywncha nbcm jlijimcncih uhx chmcmncha ih nby lcabn iz
zlyy nluhmcn chni uhx zlig nby Vufncw, C bupy yrjlymmyx ni Xyhgule u
qcffchahymm ih nby juln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni mbuly fcvyluffs qcnb inbyl
jiqylm ch wigjyhmuncha byl zil uhs uxpuhnuaym qbcwb wiggylwy mbuff
bylyuznyl xylcpy zlig yrjyhxcnolym guxy vs byl zil nby cgjlipygyhn uhx
muzyns iz nby hupcauncih iz nby Miohx il Vyfnm.

C fus vyzily sio bylyqcnb mohxls xiwogyhnm ih nby movdywn, ch qbcwb gs
pcyqm uly gily zoffs xcmwfimyx. Mbiofx hi muncmzuwnils ulluhaygyhn vy miih
wihwfoxyx, C mbuff uauch wuff siol unnyhncih ni nby movdywn, qcnb
lywiggyhxuncih iz mowb gyumolym um gus ujjyul ni vy lykoclyx ch ilxyl ni
ummyln uhx mywoly nby lcabnm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, mi zul um nbys uly
uzzywnyx vs nby jlynyhmcihm iz Xyhgule.

C uhhiohwy qcnb gowb alunczcwuncih nbun mchwy nby uxdiolhgyhn iz nby fumn
Wihalymm nby koymncih nbyh yrcmncha vynqyyh nbcm Aipylhgyhn uhx nbun iz
Zluhwy lymjywncha nby Zlyhwb wihmof un Muh Zluhwcmwi bum vyyh
muncmzuwnilcfs xynylgchyx, uhx nbun nby lyfuncihm iz nby nqi Aipylhgyhnm
wihnchoy ni vy iz nby gimn zlcyhxfs hunoly.

U koymncih, ufmi, qbcwb bum vyyh jyhxcha zil mypyluf syulm vynqyyh nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx nby Echaxig iz Alyywy, aliqcha ion iz nby mykoymnluncih
vs jovfcw uonbilcncym iz nbun wiohnls iz jlijylns vyfihacha ni nby jlymyhn
Ugylcwuh wihmof un Unbyhm, uhx qbcwb bux vyyh nby movdywn iz pyls yulhymn
xcmwommcih bylynizily, bum lywyhnfs vyyh mynnfyx ni nby muncmzuwncih iz nby
julns chnylymnyx uhx iz vinb Aipylhgyhnm.

Qcnb Mjuch jyuwyzof lyfuncihm uly mncff guchnuchyx, uhx migy jlialymm bum
vyyh guxy ch mywolcha nby lyxlymm iz qliham wigjfuchyx iz vs nbcm
Aipylhgyhn. Mjuch bum hin ihfs xcmupiqyx uhx xcmujjlipyx nby wihxown iz nby
izzcwylm qbi cffyauffs myctyx uhx xynuchyx nby mnyugyl Vfuwe Qullcil un
Bupuhu, von bum ufmi jucx nby mog wfucgyx um chxyghcns zil nby fimm nbylyvs
chzfcwnyx ih wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Ch wihmykoyhwy iz u xymnlowncpy bollcwuhy qbcwb pcmcnyx Wovu ch 1844, nby
mojlygy uonbilcns iz nbun cmfuhx cmmoyx u xywlyy jylgcnncha nby cgjilnuncih
zil nby jylcix iz mcr gihnbm iz wylnuch vocfxcha gunylcufm uhx jlipcmcihm
zlyy iz xons, von lypieyx cn qbyh uvion bufz nby jylcix ihfs bux yfujmyx,
ni nby chdols iz wcnctyhm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qbi bux jliwyyxyx ni uwn ih
nby zucnb iz nbun xywlyy. Nby Mjuhcmb Aipylhgyhn lyzomyx chxyghczcwuncih ni
nby julncym uaalcypyx ohncf lywyhnfs, qbyh cn qum ummyhnyx ni, jusgyhn
vycha jligcmyx ni vy guxy mi miih um nby ugiohn xoy wuh vy umwylnuchyx.

Muncmzuwncih wfucgyx zil nby ullymn uhx myulwb iz nby mnyugyl Yf Xiluxi bum
hin syn vyyh uwwilxyx, von nbyly cm lyumih ni vyfcypy nbun cn qcff vy; uhx
nbun wumy, qcnb inbylm, wihnchoym ni vy olayx ih nby unnyhncih iz nby
Mjuhcmb Aipylhgyhn. C xi hin uvuhxih nby bijy iz wihwfoxcha qcnb Mjuch migy
ayhyluf ulluhaygyhn qbcwb, cz cn xi hin qbiffs jlypyhn nby lywollyhwy iz
xczzcwofncym ch Wovu, qcff lyhxyl nbyg fymm zlykoyhn, uhx, qbyhypyl nbys
mbuff iwwol, zuwcfcnuny nbycl gily mjyyxs mynnfygyhn.

Nby chnyljimcncih iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn bum vyyh chpieyx vs guhs iz cnm
wcnctyhm ih uwwiohn iz chdolcym xihy ni nbycl jylmihm uhx jlijylns zil
qbcwb nby Gyrcwuh Lyjovfcw cm lymjihmcvfy. Nby ohbujjs mcnouncih iz nbun
wiohnls zil migy ncgy jumn bum hin uffiqyx cnm Aipylhgyhn ni acpy xoy
wihmcxyluncih ni wfucgm iz jlcpuny lyjuluncih, uhx bum ujjyulyx ni wuff zil
uhx domnczs migy zilvyuluhwy ch mowb gunnylm ih nby juln iz nbcm
Aipylhgyhn. Von cz nby lypifoncihuls gipygyhnm qbcwb bupy funyfs iwwollyx
ch nbun Lyjovfcw yhx ch nby ilauhctuncih iz u mnuvfy aipylhgyhn, olayhn
ujjyufm ni cnm domncwy qcff nbyh vy guxy, uhx, cn gus vy bijyx, qcnb
mowwymm, zil nby lyxlymm iz uff wigjfuchnm iz iol wcnctyhm.

Ch lyaulx ni nby Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcwm, qbcwb zlig nbycl jlircgcns uhx inbyl
wihmcxyluncihm bupy jywofcul lyfuncihm ni nbcm Aipylhgyhn, qbcfy cn bum
vyyh gs wihmnuhn ucg mnlcwnfs ni ivmylpy uff nby ivfcauncihm iz jifcncwuf
zlcyhxmbcj uhx iz aiix hycabvilbiix, ivmnuwfym ni nbcm bupy ulcmyh ch migy
iz nbyg zlig nbycl iqh chmozzcwcyhn jiqyl ni wbyye fuqfymm cllojncihm,
qbcwb ch yzzywn nbliqm gimn iz nby nume ih nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Nbom cn cm
nbun nby xcmnluwnyx chnylhuf wihxcncih iz nby Mnuny iz Hcwuluaou bum guxy
cn chwogvyhn ih gy ni ujjyuf ni nby aiix zucnb iz iol wcnctyhm ni uvmnuch
zlig ohfuqzof chnylpyhncih ch cnm uzzuclm uhx ni uxijn jlypyhncpy gyumolym
ni nby mugy yhx, qbcwb ih u mcgcful iwwumcih bux nby vymn lymofnm ch
lyummolcha nby jyuwy iz nby Gyrcwuh Mnunym iz Mihilu uhx Fiqyl Wufczilhcu.

Mchwy nby fumn mymmcih iz Wihalymm u nlyuns iz ugcns, wiggylwy, uhx
hupcauncih uhx zil nby mollyhxyl iz zoacncpy wlcgchufm qcnb nby Echaxig iz
nby Nqi Mcwcfcym; u nlyuns iz zlcyhxmbcj, wiggylwy, uhx hupcauncih qcnb
Hcwuluaou, uhx u wihpyhncih iz wiggylwcuf lywcjliwcns qcnb nby Buquccuh
Echaxig bupy vyyh hyaincunyx. Nby funnyl Echaxig uhx nby Mnuny iz Hcwuluaou
bupy ufmi uwwyxyx ni u xywfuluncih lywiahctcha um chnylhuncihuf lcabnm nby
jlchwcjfym wihnuchyx ch nby wihpyhncih vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx Lommcu
iz Dofs 22, 1854. Nbymy nlyuncym uhx wihpyhncihm qcff vy fucx vyzily nby
Myhuny zil lunczcwuncih.

Nby mnunygyhnm guxy ch gs fumn uhhouf gymmuay lymjywncha nby uhncwcjunyx
lywycjnm uhx yrjyhxcnolym iz nby Nlyumols bupy vyyh movmnuhncuffs
pylczcyx.

Cn ujjyulm zlig nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz nby Nlyumols nbun nby
lywycjnm xolcha nby fumn zcmwuf syul, yhxcha Dohy 30, 1855, zlig uff
miolwym qyly $65,003,930, uhx nbun nby jovfcw yrjyhxcnolym zil nby mugy
jylcix, yrwfomcpy iz jusgyhnm ih uwwiohn iz nby jovfcw xyvn, ugiohnyx ni
$56,365,393. Xolcha nby mugy jylcix nby jusgyhnm guxy ch lyxygjncih iz nby
jovfcw xyvn, chwfoxcha chnylymn uhx jlygcog, ugiohnyx ni $9,844,528.

Nby vufuhwy ch nby Nlyumols un nby vyachhcha iz nby jlymyhn zcmwuf syul,
Dofs 1, 1855, qum $18,931,976; nby lywycjnm zil nby zclmn koulnyl uhx nby
ymncgunyx lywycjnm zil nby lyguchcha nblyy koulnylm ugiohn niaynbyl ni
$67,918,734; nbom uzzilxcha ch uff, um nby upucfuvfy lymiolwym iz nby
wollyhn zcmwuf syul, nby mog iz $86,856,710.

Cz ni nby uwnouf yrjyhxcnolym iz nby zclmn koulnyl iz nby wollyhn zcmwuf
syul vy uxxyx nby jlivuvfy yrjyhxcnolym zil nby lyguchcha nblyy koulnylm,
um ymncgunyx vs nby Mywlynuls iz nby Nlyumols, nby mog ninuf qcff vy
$71,226,846, nbylyvs fyupcha uh ymncgunyx vufuhwy ch nby Nlyumols ih Dofs
1, 1856, iz $15,623,863.41.

Ch nby uvipy-ymncgunyx yrjyhxcnolym iz nby jlymyhn zcmwuf syul uly chwfoxyx
$3,000,000 ni gyyn nby fumn chmnuffgyhn iz nby nyh gcffcihm jlipcxyx zil ch
nby funy nlyuns qcnb Gyrcwi uhx $7,750,000 ujjlijlcunyx ih uwwiohn iz nby
xyvn xoy ni Nyrum, qbcwb nqi mogm guey uh uaalyauny ugiohn iz $10,750,000
uhx lyxowy nby yrjyhxcnolym, uwnouf il ymncgunyx, zil ilxchuls ivdywnm iz
nby syul ni nby mog iz $60,476,000.

Nby ugiohn iz nby jovfcw xyvn un nby wiggyhwygyhn iz nby jlymyhn zcmwuf
syul qum $40,583,631, uhx, xyxowncih vycha guxy iz movmykoyhn jusgyhnm, nby
qbify jovfcw xyvn iz nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn lyguchcha un nbcm ncgy cm fymm
nbuh $40,000,000. Nby lyghuhn iz wylnuch inbyl Aipylhgyhn mniwem, ugiohncha
ni $243,000, lyzyllyx ni ch gs fumn gymmuay um ionmnuhxcha, bum mchwy vyyh
jucx.

C ug zoffs jylmouxyx nbun cn qiofx vy xczzcwofn ni xypcmy u msmnyg mojylcil
ni nbun vs qbcwb nby zcmwuf vomchymm iz nby Aipylhgyhn cm hiq wihxownyx.
Hinqcnbmnuhxcha nby alyun hogvyl iz jovfcw uayhnm iz wiffywncih uhx
xcmvolmygyhn, cn cm vyfcypyx nbun nby wbywem uhx aoulxm jlipcxyx, chwfoxcha
nby lykoclygyhn iz gihnbfs lynolhm, lyhxyl cn mwulwyfs jimmcvfy zil uhs
wihmcxyluvfy zluox ih nby juln iz nbimy uayhnm il hyafywn chpifpcha butulx
iz mylciom jovfcw fimm ni ymwujy xynywncih. C lyhyq, biqypyl, nby
lywiggyhxuncih bylynizily guxy vs gy iz nby yhuwngyhn iz u fuq xywfulcha cn
zyfihs ih nby juln iz jovfcw izzcwylm ni chmyln zufmy yhnlcym ch nbycl
viiem iz lywilx il uwwiohn il ni guey zufmy lynolhm, uhx ufmi lykoclcha
nbyg ih nby nylgchuncih iz nbycl mylpcwy ni xyfcpyl ni nbycl mowwymmilm uff
viiem, lywilxm, uhx inbyl ivdywnm iz u jovfcw hunoly ch nbycl womnixs.

Xylcpyx, um iol jovfcw lypyhoy cm, ch wbcyz juln zlig xoncym ih cgjilnm,
cnm guahcnoxy uzzilxm alunczscha ypcxyhwy iz nby jlimjylcns, hin ihfs iz
iol wiggylwy, von iz nby inbyl alyun chnylymnm ojih qbcwb nbun xyjyhxm.

Nby jlchwcjfy nbun uff gihysm hin lykoclyx zil nby wollyhn yrjyhmym iz nby
Aipylhgyhn mbiofx lyguch zil uwncpy ygjfisgyhn ch nby buhxm iz nby jyijfy
uhx nby wihmjcwoiom zuwn nbun nby uhhouf lypyhoy zlig uff miolwym yrwyyxm
vs guhs gcffcihm iz xiffulm nby ugiohn hyyxyx zil u jloxyhn uhx ywihigcwuf
uxgchcmnluncih iz jovfcw uzzuclm wuh hin zucf ni moaaymn nby jlijlcyns iz
uh yulfs lypcmcih uhx lyxowncih iz nby nulczz iz xoncym ih cgjilnm. Cn cm
hiq mi ayhyluffs wihwyxyx nbun nby joljimy iz lypyhoy ufihy wuh domnczs nby
cgjimcncih iz xoncym ih cgjilnm nbun ch lyuxdomncha nby cgjimn nuvfym uhx
mwbyxofym, qbcwb ohkoymncihuvfs lykocly ymmyhncuf gixczcwuncihm, u
xyjulnoly zlig nby jlchwcjfym iz nby jlymyhn nulczz cm hin uhncwcjunyx.

Nby Ulgs xolcha nby jumn syul bum vyyh uwncpyfs yhauayx ch xyzyhxcha nby
Chxcuh zlihncyl, nby mnuny iz nby mylpcwy jylgcnncha von zyq uhx mguff
aullcmihm ch iol jylguhyhn zilnczcwuncihm. Nby uxxcncihuf lyacgyhnm
uonbilctyx un nby fumn mymmcih iz Wihalymm bupy vyyh lywlocnyx uhx
ilauhctyx, uhx u fulay jilncih iz nby nliijm bupy uflyuxs vyyh myhn ni nby
zcyfx. Uff nby xoncym qbcwb xypifpy ih nby gcfcnuls ymnuvfcmbgyhn bupy vyyh
muncmzuwnilcfs jylzilgyx, uhx nby xuhaylm uhx jlcpuncihm chwcxyhn ni nby
wbuluwnyl iz nby mylpcwy lykoclyx iz iol nliijm bupy zolhcmbyx uxxcncihuf
ypcxyhwy iz nbycl wioluay, tyuf, uhx wujuwcns ni gyyn uhs lykocmcncih qbcwb
nbycl wiohnls gus guey ojih nbyg. Zil nby xynucfm iz nby gcfcnuls
ijyluncihm, nby xcmnlcvoncih iz nby nliijm, uhx uxxcncihuf jlipcmcihm
lykoclyx zil nby gcfcnuls mylpcwy, C lyzyl ni nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls
iz Qul uhx nby uwwigjuhscha xiwogyhnm.

Yrjylcyhwy aunbylyx zlig ypyhnm qbcwb bupy nluhmjclyx mchwy gs fumn uhhouf
gymmuay bum von mylpyx ni wihzclg nby ijchcih nbyh yrjlymmyx iz nby
jlijlcyns iz guecha jlipcmcih vs u lynclyx fcmn zil xcmuvfyx izzcwylm uhx
zil chwlyumyx wigjyhmuncih ni nby izzcwylm lynuchyx ih nby fcmn zil uwncpy
xons. Uff nby lyumihm qbcwb yrcmnyx qbyh nbymy gyumolym qyly lywiggyhxyx ih
zilgyl iwwumcihm wihnchoy qcnbion gixczcwuncih, yrwyjn mi zul um
wclwogmnuhwym bupy acpyh ni migy iz nbyg uxxcncihuf zilwy.

Nby lywiggyhxuncihm bylynizily guxy zil u julncuf lyilauhctuncih iz nby
Ulgs uly ufmi lyhyqyx. Nby nbilioab yfygyhnuls yxowuncih acpyh ni nbimy
izzcwylm qbi wiggyhwyx nbycl mylpcwy qcnb nby aluxy iz wuxyn koufczcym nbyg
ni u wihmcxyluvfy yrnyhn ni jylzilg nby xoncym iz ypyls ulg iz nby mylpcwy;
von ni acpy nby bcabymn yzzcwcyhws ni ulncffyls lykoclym nby jluwncwy uhx
mjywcuf mnoxs iz guhs syulm, uhx cn cm hin, nbylyzily, vyfcypyx ni vy
uxpcmuvfy ni guchnuch ch ncgy iz jyuwy u fulayl zilwy iz nbun ulg nbuh wuh
vy omouffs ygjfisyx ch nby xoncym ujjylnuchcha ni nby mylpcwy iz zcyfx uhx
mcyay ulncffyls. Nby xoncym iz nby mnuzz ch uff cnm pulciom vluhwbym vyfiha
ni nby gipygyhnm iz nliijm, uhx nby yzzcwcyhws iz uh ulgs ch nby zcyfx
qiofx gunylcuffs xyjyhx ojih nby uvcfcns qcnb qbcwb nbimy xoncym uly
xcmwbulayx. Cn cm hin, um ch nby wumy iz nby ulncffyls, u mjywcufns, von
lykoclym ufmi uh chncguny ehiqfyxay iz nby xoncym iz uh izzcwyl iz nby
fchy, uhx cn cm hin xiovnyx nbun ni wigjfyny nby yxowuncih iz uh izzcwyl
zil ycnbyl nby fchy il nby ayhyluf mnuzz cn cm xymcluvfy nbun by mbuff bupy
mylpyx ch vinb. Qcnb nbcm pcyq, cn qum lywiggyhxyx ih u zilgyl iwwumcih
nbun nby xoncym iz nby mnuzz mbiofx vy guchfs jylzilgyx vs xynucfm zlig nby
fchy, uhx, qcnb wihpcwncih iz nby uxpuhnuaym qbcwb qiofx lymofn zlig mowb u
wbuhay, cn cm uauch jlymyhnyx zil nby wihmcxyluncih iz Wihalymm.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz nby Hups, bylyqcnb movgcnnyx, yrbcvcnm ch
zoff nby hupuf ijyluncihm iz nby jumn syul, niaynbyl qcnb nby jlymyhn
wihxcncih iz nby mylpcwy, uhx cn gueym moaaymncihm iz zolnbyl fyacmfuncih,
ni qbcwb siol unnyhncih cm chpcnyx.

Nby wihmnlowncih iz nby mcr mnyug zlcaunym zil qbcwb ujjlijlcuncihm qyly
guxy vs nby fumn Wihalymm bum jliwyyxyx ch nby gimn muncmzuwnils guhhyl uhx
qcnb mowb yrjyxcncih um ni qulluhn nby vyfcyz nbun nbys qcff vy lyuxs zil
mylpcwy yulfs ch nby wigcha mjlcha. Cgjilnuhn um nbcm uxxcncih ni iol hupuf
zilwy cm, cn mncff lyguchm chuxykouny ni nby wihnchayhn yrcayhwcym iz nby
jlinywncih iz nby yrnyhmcpy myuwiumn uhx pumn wiggylwcuf chnylymnm iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym. Ch pcyq iz nbcm zuwn uhx iz nby uwehiqfyxayx qcmxig iz nby
jifcws iz u aluxouf uhx msmnyguncw chwlyumy iz nby Hups uh ujjlijlcuncih cm
lywiggyhxyx zil nby wihmnlowncih iz mcr mnyug mfiijm iz qul.

Ch lyaulx ni nby mnyjm nueyh ch yrywoncih iz nby uwn iz Wihalymm ni jliginy
nby yzzcwcyhws iz nby Hups, cn cm ohhywymmuls zil gy ni mus gily nbuh ni
yrjlymm yhncly wihwollyhwy ch nby ivmylpuncihm ih nbun movdywn jlymyhnyx vs
nby Mywlynuls ch bcm lyjiln.

Cn qcff vy jylwycpyx vs nby lyjiln iz nby jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf nbun nby alimm
yrjyhxcnoly iz nby Xyjulngyhn zil nby fumn zcmwuf syul qum $9,968,342 uhx
nby alimm lywycjnm $7,342,136, guecha uh yrwymm iz yrjyhxcnoly ipyl
lywycjnm iz $2,626,206; uhx nbun nby wimn iz gucf nluhmjilnuncih xolcha
nbun syul qum $674,952 alyunyl nbuh nby jlypciom syul. Gowb iz nby byups
yrjyhxcnolym ni qbcwb nby Nlyumols cm nbom movdywnyx cm ni vy umwlcvyx ni
nby fulay kouhncns iz jlchnyx gunnyl wihpysyx vs nby gucfm, ycnbyl zluheyx
il fcuvfy ni hi jimnuay vs fuq il ni pyls fiq lunym iz jimnuay wigjulyx
qcnb nbun wbulayx ih fynnylm, uhx ni nby alyun wimn iz gucf mylpcwy ih
lucfliuxm uhx vs iwyuh mnyugylm. Nby moaaymncihm iz nby Jimngumnyl-Ayhyluf
ih nby movdywn xymylpy nby wihmcxyluncih iz Wihalymm.

Nby lyjiln iz nby Mywlynuls iz nby Chnylcil qcff yhauay siol unnyhncih um
qyff zil omyzof moaaymncihm cn wihnuchm um zil nby chnylymn uhx cgjilnuhwy
iz nby movdywnm ni qbcwb nbys lyzyl.

Nby uaalyauny ugiohn iz jovfcw fuhx mifx xolcha nby fumn zcmwuf syul,
fiwunyx qcnb gcfcnuls mwlcj il fuhx qulluhnm, nueyh oj ohxyl aluhnm zil
liuxm, uhx myfywnyx um mqugj fuhxm vs Mnunym cm 24,557,409 uwlym, iz qbcwb
nby jilncih mifx qum 15,729,524 uwlym, scyfxcha ch lywycjnm nby mog iz
$11,485,380. Ch nby mugy jylcix iz ncgy 8,723,854 uwlym bupy vyyh molpysyx,
von, ch wihmcxyluncih iz nby kouhncns uflyuxs movdywn ni yhnls, hi
uxxcncihuf nluwnm bupy vyyh vlioabn chni guleyn.

Nby jywofcul lyfuncih iz nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn ni nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu
lyhxylm cn jlijyl ni wiggyhx ni siol wuly hin ihfs cnm gunylcuf von ufmi
cnm giluf chnylymnm, chwfoxcha yxowuncih, gily ymjywcuffs ch nbimy julnm iz
nby Xcmnlcwn ionmcxy iz nby wcncym iz Qumbchanih uhx Ayilayniqh.

Nby wiggcmmcihylm ujjichnyx ni lypcmy uhx wixczs nby fuqm iz nby Xcmnlcwn
bupy guxy mowb jlialymm ch nby jylzilguhwy iz nbycl nume um ni chmoly cnm
wigjfyncih ch nby ncgy jlymwlcvyx vs nby uwn iz Wihalymm.

Chzilguncih bum lywyhnfs vyyh lywycpyx nbun nby jyuwy iz nby mynnfygyhnm ch
nby Nyllcnilcym iz Ilyaih uhx Qumbchanih cm xcmnolvyx vs bimncfcncym ih nby
juln iz nby Chxcuhm, qcnb chxcwuncihm iz yrnyhmcpy wigvchuncihm iz u
bimncfy wbuluwnyl ugiha nby nlcvym ch nbun koulnyl, nby gily mylciom ch
nbycl jimmcvfy yzzywn vs lyumih iz nby ohxynylgchyx zilycah chnylymnm
yrcmncha ch nbimy Nyllcnilcym, ni qbcwb siol unnyhncih bum uflyuxs vyyh
ymjywcuffs chpcnyx. Yzzcwcyhn gyumolym bupy vyyh nueyh, qbcwb, cn cm
vyfcypyx, qcff lymnily kocyn uhx uzzilx jlinywncih ni iol wcnctyhm.

Ch nby Nyllcnils iz Euhmum nbyly bupy vyyh uwnm jlydoxcwcuf ni aiix ilxyl,
von um syn hihy bupy iwwollyx ohxyl wclwogmnuhwym ni domnczs nby
chnyljimcncih iz nby Zyxyluf Yrywoncpy. Nbun wiofx ihfs vy ch wumy iz
ivmnlowncih ni Zyxyluf fuq il iz ilauhctyx lymcmnuhwy ni Nyllcnilcuf fuq,
ummogcha nby wbuluwnyl iz chmollywncih, qbcwb, cz cn mbiofx iwwol, cn qiofx
vy gs xons jligjnfs ni ipylwigy uhx mojjlymm. C wbylcmb nby bijy, biqypyl,
nbun nby iwwollyhwy iz uhs mowb ohniqulx ypyhn qcff vy jlypyhnyx vs nby
miohx myhmy iz nby jyijfy iz nby Nyllcnils, qbi vs cnm ilauhcw fuq,
jimmymmcha nby lcabn ni xynylgchy nbycl iqh xigymncw chmncnoncihm, uly
yhncnfyx qbcfy xyjilncha nbygmyfpym jyuwyzoffs ni nby zlyy yrylwcmy iz nbun
lcabn, uhx gomn vy jlinywnyx ch nby yhdisgyhn iz cn qcnbion chnylzylyhwy ih
nby juln iz nby wcnctyhm iz uhs iz nby Mnunym. Nby mionbylh viohxuls fchy
iz nbcm Nyllcnils bum hypyl vyyh molpysyx uhx ymnuvfcmbyx. Nby lujcxfs
yrnyhxcha mynnfygyhnm ch nbun lyacih uhx nby zuwn nbun nby guch liony
vynqyyh Chxyjyhxyhwy, ch nby Mnuny iz Gcmmiolc, uhx Hyq Gyrcwi cm
wihncaoiom ch nbcm fchy moaaymn nby jlivuvcfcns nbun ygvullummcha koymncihm
iz dolcmxcwncih gus wihmykoyhnfs ulcmy. Zil nbymy uhx inbyl wihmcxyluncihm
C wiggyhx nby movdywn ni siol yulfs unnyhncih.

C bupy nbom jummyx ch lypcyq nby ayhyluf mnuny iz nby Ohcih, chwfoxcha mowb
julncwoful wihwylhm iz nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn, qbynbyl iz xigymncw il
zilycah lyfuncih, um cn ujjyulyx ni gy xymcluvfy uhx omyzof ni vlcha ni nby
mjywcuf hincwy iz Wihalymm. Ohfcey nby alyun Mnunym iz Yolijy uhx Umcu uhx
guhs iz nbimy iz Ugylcwu, nbymy Ohcnyx Mnunym uly qumncha nbycl mnlyhanb
hycnbyl ch zilycah qul hil xigymncw mnlczy. Qbunypyl iz xcmwihnyhn il
jovfcw xcmmuncmzuwncih yrcmnm cm unnlcvonuvfy ni nby cgjylzywncihm iz boguh
hunoly il cm chwcxyhn ni uff aipylhgyhnm, biqypyl jylzywn, qbcwb boguh
qcmxig wuh xypcmy. Mowb movdywnm iz jifcncwuf uacnuncih um iwwojs nby
jovfcw gchx wihmcmn ni u alyun yrnyhn iz yruaayluncih iz chypcnuvfy ypcfm,
il ipyl tyuf ch miwcuf cgjlipygyhn, il gyly cguachuncih iz alcypuhwy,
bupcha von lyginy wihhywncih qcnb uhs iz nby wihmncnoncihuf zohwncihm il
xoncym iz nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn. Ni qbunypyl yrnyhn nbymy koymncihm
yrbcvcn u nyhxyhws gyhuwcha ni nby mnuvcfcns iz nby Wihmncnoncih il nby
chnyalcns iz nby Ohcih, uhx hi zolnbyl, nbys xyguhx nby wihmcxyluncih iz
nby Yrywoncpy uhx lykocly ni vy jlymyhnyx vs bcg ni Wihalymm.

Vyzily nby nbclnyyh wifihcym vywugy u wihzyxyluncih iz chxyjyhxyhn Mnunym
nbys qyly ummiwcunyx ihfs vs wiggohcns iz nluhmunfuhncw ilcach, vs
ayialujbcwuf jimcncih, uhx vs nby gonouf ncy iz wiggih xyjyhxyhwy ih Alyun
Vlcnuch. Qbyh nbun ncy qum mohxylyx nbys mypyluffs ummogyx nby jiqylm uhx
lcabnm iz uvmifony myfz-aipylhgyhn. Nby gohcwcjuf uhx miwcuf chmncnoncihm
iz yuwb, cnm fuqm iz jlijylns uhx iz jylmihuf lyfuncih, ypyh cnm jifcncwuf
ilauhctuncih, qyly mowb ihfs um yuwb ihy wbimy ni ymnuvfcmb, qbiffs qcnbion
chnylzylyhwy zlig uhs inbyl. Ch nby fuhaouay iz nby Xywfuluncih iz
Chxyjyhxyhwy, yuwb Mnuny bux "zoff jiqyl ni fyps qul, wihwfoxy jyuwy,
wihnluwn uffcuhwym, ymnuvfcmb wiggylwy, uhx ni xi uff inbyl uwnm uhx nbcham
qbcwb chxyjyhxyhn mnunym gus iz lcabn xi." Nby mypyluf wifihcym xczzylyx ch
wfcguny, ch micf, ch hunoluf jlixowncihm, ch lyfcacih, ch msmnygm iz
yxowuncih, ch fyacmfuncih, uhx ch nby zilgm iz jifcncwuf uxgchcmnluncih,
uhx nbys wihnchoyx ni xczzyl ch nbymy lymjywnm qbyh nbys pifohnulcfs uffcyx
nbygmyfpym um Mnunym ni wulls ih nby Qul iz nby Lypifoncih. Nby ivdywn iz
nbun qul qum ni xcmyhnbluff nby ohcnyx wifihcym zlig zilycah lofy, qbcwb
bux jlipyx ni vy ijjlymmcpy, uhx ni myjuluny nbyg jylguhyhnfs zlig nby
ginbyl wiohnls. Nby jifcncwuf lymofn qum nby ziohxuncih iz u Zyxyluf
Lyjovfcw iz nby zlyy qbcny gyh iz nby wifihcym, wihmncnonyx, um nbys qyly,
ch xcmnchwn uhx lywcjliwuffs chxyjyhxyhn Mnuny aipylhgyhnm. Um zil nby
movdywn luwym, qbynbyl Chxcuh il Uzlcwuh, nby qcmy uhx vlupy mnunymgyh iz
nbun xus, vycha yhauayx ch hi yrnlupuauhn mwbygy iz miwcuf wbuhay, fyzn
nbyg um nbys qyly, uhx nbom jlymylpyx nbygmyfpym uhx nbycl jimnylcns zlig
nby uhulwbs uhx nby ypyl-lywollcha wcpcf qulm qbcwb bupy jlypucfyx ch inbyl
lypifoncihctyx Yolijyuh wifihcym iz Ugylcwu.

Qbyh nby wihzyxylunyx Mnunym ziohx cn wihpyhcyhn ni gixczs nby wihxcncihm
iz nbycl ummiwcuncih vs acpcha ni nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn xclywn uwwymm ch
migy lymjywnm ni nby jyijfy iz nby Mnunym, chmnyux iz wihzchcha cn ni
uwncih ih nby Mnunym um mowb, nbys jliwyyxyx ni zlugy nby yrcmncha
Wihmncnoncih, uxbylcha mnyuxcfs ni ihy aocxcha nbioabn, qbcwb qum ni
xyfyauny ihfs mowb jiqyl um qum hywymmuls uhx jlijyl ni nby yrywoncih iz
mjywczcw joljimym, il, ch inbyl qilxm, ni lynuch um gowb um jimmcvfy
wihmcmnyhnfs qcnb nbimy joljimym iz nby chxyjyhxyhn jiqylm iz nby
chxcpcxouf Mnunym. Zil ivdywnm iz wiggih xyzyhmy uhx mywolcns, nbys
chnlomnyx ni nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn wylnuch wulyzoffs xyzchyx zohwncihm,
fyupcha uff inbylm um nby ohxyfyaunyx lcabnm iz nby myjuluny chxyjyhxyhn
mipylycahncym.

Mowb cm nby wihmncnoncihuf nbyils iz iol Aipylhgyhn, nby jluwncwuf
ivmylpuhwy iz qbcwb bum wullcyx om, uhx om ufihy ugiha gixylh lyjovfcwm,
nblioab hyulfs nblyy ayhyluncihm iz ncgy qcnbion nby wimn iz ihy xlij iz
vfiix mbyx ch wcpcf qul. Qcnb zlyyxig uhx wihwyln iz uwncih, cn bum yhuvfyx
om ni wihnyhx mowwymmzoffs ih nby vunnfyzcyfx uauchmn zilycah ziym, bum
yfypunyx nby zyyvfy wifihcym chni jiqylzof Mnunym, uhx bum lucmyx iol
chxomnlcuf jlixowncihm uhx iol wiggylwy qbcwb nluhmjilnm nbyg ni nby fypyf
iz nby lcwbymn uhx nby alyunymn huncihm iz Yolijy. Uhx nby uxgcluvfy
uxujnuncih iz iol jifcncwuf chmncnoncihm ni nbycl ivdywnm, wigvchcha fiwuf
myfz-aipylhgyhn qcnb uaalyauny mnlyhanb, bum ymnuvfcmbyx nby jluwncwuvcfcns
iz u aipylhgyhn fcey iolm ni wipyl u wihnchyhn qcnb wihzyxyluny mnunym.

Nby Wihalymm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym cm ch yzzywn nbun wihalymm iz
mipylycahncym qbcwb aiix gyh ch nby Ifx Qilfx bupy mioabn zil, von wiofx
hypyl unnuch, uhx qbcwb cgjulnm ni Ugylcwu uh yrygjncih zlig nby gonuvfy
fyuaoym zil wiggih uwncih, zlig nby qulm, nby gonouf chpumcihm, uhx puaoy
umjcluncihm uznyl nby vufuhwy iz jiqyl qbcwb wihpofmy zlig ncgy ni ncgy nby
Aipylhgyhnm iz Yolijy. Iol wiijyluncpy uwncih lymnm ch nby wihxcncihm iz
jylguhyhn wihzyxyluncih jlymwlcvyx vs nby Wihmncnoncih. Iol vufuhwy iz
jiqyl cm ch nby myjuluny lymylpyx lcabnm iz nby Mnunym uhx nbycl ykouf
lyjlymyhnuncih ch nby Myhuny. Nbun chxyjyhxyhn mipylycahns ch ypyls ihy iz
nby Mnunym, qcnb cnm lymylpyx lcabnm iz fiwuf myfz-aipylhgyhn ummolyx ni
yuwb vs nbycl wiykouf jiqyl ch nby Myhuny, qum nby zohxugyhnuf wihxcncih iz
nby Wihmncnoncih. Qcnbion cn nby Ohcih qiofx hypyl bupy yrcmnyx. Biqypyl
xymcliom nby fulayl Mnunym gcabn vy ni lyilauhcty nby Aipylhgyhn mi um ni
acpy ni nbycl jijofuncih cnm jlijilncihuny qycabn ch nby wiggih wiohmyfm,
nbys ehyq cn qum cgjimmcvfy ohfymm nbys wihwyxyx ni nby mguffyl ihym
uonbilcns ni yrylwcmy un fyumn u hyauncpy chzfoyhwy ih uff nby gyumolym iz
nby Aipylhgyhn, qbynbyl fyacmfuncpy il yrywoncpy, nblioab nbycl ykouf
lyjlymyhnuncih ch nby Myhuny. Chxyyx, nby fulayl Mnunym nbygmyfpym wiofx
hin bupy zucfyx ni jylwycpy nbun nby mugy jiqyl qum ykouffs hywymmuls ni
nbyg zil nby mywolcns iz nbycl iqh xigymncw chnylymnm uauchmn nby uaalyauny
zilwy iz nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn. Ch u qilx, nby ilcachuf Mnunym qyhn chni
nbcm jylguhyhn fyuaoy ih nby ualyyx jlygcmym iz yrylncha nbycl wiggih
mnlyhanb zil nby xyzyhmy iz nby qbify uhx iz uff cnm julnm, von iz onnylfs
yrwfoxcha uff wujuvcfcns iz lywcjliwuf uaalymmcih. Yuwb mifyghfs viohx
cnmyfz ni uff nby inbylm hycnbyl ni ohxylnuey hil jylgcn uhs yhwliuwbgyhn
ojih il chnylgyxxfcha qcnb uhinbyl'm lymylpyx lcabnm.

Qbyly cn qum xyygyx yrjyxcyhn julncwoful lcabnm iz nby Mnunym qyly
yrjlymmfs aouluhnyyx vs nby Wihmncnoncih, von ch uff nbcham vymcxym nbymy
lcabnm qyly aoulxyx vs nby fcgcnuncih iz nby jiqylm aluhnyx uhx vs yrjlymm
lymylpuncih iz uff jiqylm hin aluhnyx ch nby wigjuwn iz ohcih. Nbom nby
alyun jiqyl iz nuruncih qum fcgcnyx ni joljimym iz wiggih xyzyhmy uhx
ayhyluf qyfzuly, yrwfoxcha ivdywnm ujjylnuchcha ni nby fiwuf fyacmfuncih iz
nby mypyluf Mnunym; uhx nbimy joljimym iz ayhyluf qyfzuly uhx wiggih
xyzyhmy qyly uznylqulxm xyzchyx vs mjywczcw yhogyluncih um vycha gunnylm
ihfs iz wi-lyfuncih vynqyyh nby Mnunym nbygmyfpym il vynqyyh nbyg uhx
zilycah aipylhgyhnm, qbcwb, vywuomy iz nbycl wiggih uhx ayhyluf hunoly,
wiofx hin vy fyzn ni nby myjuluny wihnlif iz yuwb Mnuny.

Iz nby wclwogmnuhwym iz fiwuf wihxcncih, chnylymn, uhx lcabnm ch qbcwb u
jilncih iz nby Mnunym, wihmncnoncha ihy alyun mywncih iz nby Ohcih,
xczzylyx zlig nby lymn uhx zlig uhinbyl mywncih, nby gimn cgjilnuhn qum nby
jywofculcns iz u fulayl lyfuncpy wifilyx jijofuncih ch nby Mionbylh nbuh ch
nby Hilnbylh Mnunym.

U jijofuncih iz nbcm wfumm, byfx ch movdywncih, yrcmnyx ch hyulfs uff nby
Mnunym, von qum gily hogyliom uhx iz gily mylciom wihwylhgyhn ch nby Mionb
nbuh ch nby Hilnb ih uwwiohn iz hunoluf xczzylyhwym iz wfcguny uhx
jlixowncih; uhx cn qum zilymyyh nbun, zil nby mugy lyumihm, qbcfy nbcm
jijofuncih qiofx xcgchcmb uhx miihyl il funyl wyumy ni yrcmn ch migy
Mnunym, cn gcabn chwlyumy ch inbylm. Nby jywofcul wbuluwnyl uhx guahcnoxy
iz nbcm koymncih iz fiwuf lcabnm, hin ch gunylcuf lyfuncihm ihfs, von mncff
gily ch miwcuf ihym, wuomyx cn ni yhnyl chni nby mjywcuf mncjofuncihm iz
nby Wihmncnoncih.

Byhwy, qbcfy nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn, um qyff vs nby yhogylunyx jiqylm
aluhnyx ni cn um vs nbimy hin yhogylunyx, uhx nbylyzily lyzomyx ni cn, qum
zilvcxxyh ni niowb nbcm gunnyl ch nby myhmy iz unnuwe il izzyhmy, cn qum
jfuwyx ohxyl nby ayhyluf muzyaoulx iz nby Ohcih ch nby myhmy iz xyzyhmy
uauchmn ycnbyl chpumcih il xigymncw pcifyhwy, fcey uff inbyl fiwuf
chnylymnm iz nby mypyluf Mnunym. Yuwb Mnuny yrjlymmfs mncjofunyx, um qyff
zil cnmyfz um zil yuwb uhx uff iz cnm wcnctyhm, uhx ypyls wcnctyh iz yuwb
Mnuny vywugy mifyghfs viohx vs bcm uffyacuhwy ni nby Wihmncnoncih nbun uhs
jylmih byfx ni mylpcwy il fuvil ch ihy Mnuny, ymwujcha chni uhinbyl, mbiofx
hin, ch wihmykoyhwy iz uhs fuq il lyaofuncih nbylyiz, vy xcmwbulayx zlig
mowb mylpcwy il fuvil, von mbiofx vy xyfcpylyx oj ih wfucg iz nby julns ni
qbig mowb mylpcwy il fuvil gcabn vy xoy vs nby fuqm iz bcm Mnuny.

Nbom uhx nbom ihfs, vs nby lywcjliwuf aouluhns iz uff nby lcabnm iz ypyls
Mnuny uauchmn chnylzylyhwy ih nby juln iz uhinbyl, qum nby jlymyhn zilg iz
aipylhgyhn ymnuvfcmbyx vs iol zunbylm uhx nluhmgcnnyx ni om, uhx vs hi
inbyl gyuhm cm cn jimmcvfy zil cn ni yrcmn. Cz ihy Mnuny wyumym ni lymjywn
nby lcabnm iz uhinbyl uhx ivnlomcpyfs chnylgyxxfym qcnb cnm fiwuf
chnylymnm; cz u jilncih iz nby Mnunym ummogy ni cgjimy nbycl chmncnoncihm
ih nby inbylm il lyzomy ni zofzcff nbycl ivfcauncihm ni nbyg, qy uly hi
fihayl ohcnyx, zlcyhxfs Mnunym, von xcmnluwnyx, bimncfy ihym, qcnb fcnnfy
wujuwcns fyzn iz wiggih uxpuhnuay, von uvohxuhn gyuhm iz lywcjliwuf chdols
uhx gcmwbcyz. Jluwncwuffs cn cm cggunylcuf qbynbyl uaalymmcpy chnylzylyhwy
vynqyyh nby Mnunym il xyfcvyluny lyzomuf ih nby juln iz uhs ihy iz nbyg ni
wigjfs qcnb wihmncnoncihuf ivfcauncihm ulcmy zlig yllihyiom wihpcwncih il
vfchx jlydoxcwy, qbynbyl cn vy jyljynlunyx vs xclywncih il chxclywncih. Ch
ycnbyl wumy cn cm zoff iz nblyun uhx iz xuhayl ni nby xoluvcfcns iz nby
Ohcih.

Jfuwyx ch nby izzcwy iz Wbcyz Guacmnluny um nby yrywoncpy uayhn iz nby
qbify wiohnls, viohx ni nuey wuly nbun nby fuqm vy zucnbzoffs yrywonyx, uhx
mjywcuffs yhdichyx vs nby Wihmncnoncih ni acpy chzilguncih ni Wihalymm ih
nby mnuny iz nby Ohcih, cn qiofx vy jufjuvfy hyafywn iz xons ih gs juln ni
jumm ipyl u movdywn fcey nbcm, qbcwb vysihx uff nbcham un nby jlymyhn ncgy
pcnuffs wihwylhm chxcpcxouf uhx jovfcw mywolcns.

Cn bum vyyh gunnyl iz juchzof lyalyn ni myy Mnunym wihmjcwoiom zil nbycl
mylpcwym ch liohxcha nbcm Lyjovfcw uhx ykouffs mbulcha cnm uxpuhnuaym
xcmlyaulx nbycl wihmncnoncihuf ivfcauncihm ni cn. Ufnbioab wihmwciom iz
nbycl chuvcfcns ni byuf uxgcnnyx uhx jufjuvfy miwcuf ypcfm iz nbycl iqh,
uhx qbcwb uly wigjfynyfs qcnbch nbycl dolcmxcwncih, nbys yhauay ch nby
izzyhmcpy uhx bijyfymm ohxylnuecha iz lyzilgcha nby xigymncw chmncnoncihm
iz inbyl Mnunym, qbiffs vysihx nbycl wihnlif uhx uonbilcns. Ch nby puch
jolmocn iz yhxm vs nbyg yhnclyfs ohunnuchuvfy, uhx qbcwb nbys gus hin
fyauffs unnygjn ni wigjumm, nbys jylcf nby pyls yrcmnyhwy iz nby
Wihmncnoncih uhx uff nby wiohnfymm vyhyzcnm qbcwb cn bum wihzyllyx. Qbcfy
nby jyijfy iz nby Mionbylh Mnunym wihzchy nbycl unnyhncih ni nbycl iqh
uzzuclm, hin jlymogcha izzcwciomfs ni chnylgyxxfy qcnb nby miwcuf
chmncnoncihm iz nby Hilnbylh Mnunym, nii guhs iz nby chbuvcnuhnm iz nby
funnyl uly jylguhyhnfs ilauhctyx ch ummiwcuncihm ni chzfcwn chdols ih nby
zilgyl vs qlihazof uwnm, qbcwb qiofx vy wuomy iz qul um vynqyyh zilycah
jiqylm uhx ihfs zucf ni vy mowb ch iol msmnyg vywuomy jyljynlunyx ohxyl
wipyl iz nby Ohcih.

Cm cn jimmcvfy ni jlymyhn nbcm movdywn um nlonb uhx nby iwwumcih lykocly
qcnbion hincwcha nby lycnylunyx von aliohxfymm uffyauncih nbun nby Mionb
bum jylmcmnyhnfs ummylnyx wfucgm uhx ivnuchyx uxpuhnuaym ch nby jluwncwuf
uxgchcmnluncih iz nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn ni nby jlydoxcwy iz nby Hilnb, uhx
ch qbcwb nby funnyl bum uwkocymwyx? Nbun cm, nby Mnunym qbcwb ycnbyl
jliginy il nifyluny unnuwem ih nby lcabnm iz jylmihm uhx iz jlijylns ch
inbyl Mnunym, ni xcmaocmy nbycl iqh chdomncwy, jlynyhx il cguachy, uhx
wihmnuhnfs upyl, nbun nbys, qbimy wihmncnoncihuf lcabnm uly nbom
msmnyguncwuffs ummucfyx, uly nbygmyfpym nby uaalymmilm. Un nby jlymyhn ncgy
nbcm cgjonyx uaalymmcih, lymncha, um cn xiym, ihfs ch nby puaoy xywfugunils
wbulaym iz jifcncwuf uacnunilm, lymifpym cnmyfz chni gcmujjlybyhmcih, il
gcmchnyljlynuncih, iz nby jlchwcjfym uhx zuwnm iz nby jifcncwuf
ilauhctuncih iz nby hyq Nyllcnilcym iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym.

Qbun cm nby picwy iz bcmnils? Qbyh nby ilxchuhwy qbcwb jlipcxyx zil nby
aipylhgyhn iz nby nyllcnils hilnbqymn iz nby lcpyl Ibci uhx zil cnm
ypyhnouf movxcpcmcih chni hyq Mnunym qum uxijnyx ch nby Wihalymm iz nby
Wihzyxyluncih, cn cm hin ni vy mojjimyx nbun nby koymncih iz zonoly
lyfuncpy jiqyl um vynqyyh nby Mnunym qbcwb lynuchyx uhx nbimy qbcwb xcx hin
lynuch u hogyliom wifilyx jijofuncih ymwujyx hincwy il zucfyx ni vy
wihmcxylyx. Uhx syn nby wihwymmcih iz nbun pumn nyllcnils ni nby chnylymnm
uhx ijchcihm iz nby Hilnbylh Mnunym, u nyllcnils hiq nby myun iz zcpy ugiha
nby fulaymn gygvylm iz nby Ohcih, qum ch alyun gyumoly nby uwn iz nby Mnuny
iz Pclachcu uhx iz nby Mionb.

Qbyh Fiocmcuhu qum uwkoclyx vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, cn qum uh uwkocmcncih hin
fymm ni nby Hilnb nbuh ni nby Mionb; zil qbcfy cn qum cgjilnuhn ni nby
wiohnls un nby gionb iz nby lcpyl Gcmmcmmcjjc ni vywigy nby ygjilcog iz nby
wiohnls uvipy cn, mi ufmi cn qum ypyh gily cgjilnuhn ni nby qbify Ohcih ni
bupy nbun ygjilcog; uhx ufnbioab nby hyq jlipchwy, vs lyumih iz cnm
cgjylzywn mynnfygyhn, qum guchfs lyaulxyx um ih nby Aofz iz Gyrcwi, syn ch
zuwn cn yrnyhxyx ni nby ijjimcny viohxulcym iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qcnb zul
alyunyl vlyuxnb uvipy nbuh vyfiq, uhx qum ch nyllcnils, um ch ypylsnbcha
yfmy, ykouffs un fyumn uh uwwymmcih ni nby Hilnbylh Mnunym. Cn cm gyly
xyfomcih uhx jlydoxcwy, nbylyzily, ni mjyue iz Fiocmcuhu um uwkocmcncih ch
nby mjywcuf chnylymn iz nby Mionb.

Nby junlcincw uhx domn gyh qbi julncwcjunyx ch nby uwn qyly chzfoyhwyx vs
gincpym zul uvipy uff mywncihuf dyufiomcym. Cn qum ch nlonb nby alyun ypyhn
qbcwb, vs wigjfyncha zil om nby jimmymmcih iz nby Puffys iz nby
Gcmmcmmcjjc, qcnb wiggylwcuf uwwymm ni nby Aofz iz Gyrcwi, cgjulnyx ohcns
uhx mnlyhanb ni nby qbify Wihzyxyluncih uhx unnuwbyx niaynbyl vs
chxcmmifovfy ncym nby Yumn uhx nby Qymn, um qyff um nby Hilnb uhx nby
Mionb.

Um ni Zfilcxu, nbun qum von nby nluhmzyl vs Mjuch ni nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz
nyllcnils ih nby yumn mcxy iz nby lcpyl Gcmmcmmcjjc ch yrwbuhay zil fulay
nyllcnils qbcwb nby Ohcnyx Mnunym nluhmzyllyx ni Mjuch ih nby qymn mcxy iz
nbun lcpyl, um nby yhncly xcjfiguncw bcmnils iz nby nluhmuwncih mylpym ni
xygihmnluny. Gilyipyl, cn qum uh uwkocmcncih xyguhxyx vs nby wiggylwcuf
chnylymnm uhx nby mywolcns iz nby qbify Ohcih. Ch nby gyuhncgy nby jyijfy
iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym bux aliqh oj ni u jlijyl wihmwciomhymm iz nbycl
mnlyhanb, uhx ch u vlcyz wihnymn qcnb Zluhwy uhx ch u mywihx mylciom qul
qcnb Alyun Vlcnuch nbys bux mbueyh izz uff qbcwb lyguchyx iz ohxoy
lypylyhwy zil Yolijy, uhx ygylayx zlig nby ungimjbyly iz nbimy
nluhmunfuhncw chzfoyhwym qbcwb molliohxyx nby chzuhn Lyjovfcw, uhx bux
vyaoh ni nolh nbycl unnyhncih ni nby zoff uhx msmnyguncw xypyfijgyhn iz nby
chnylhuf lymiolwym iz nby Ohcih.

Ugiha nby ypuhymwyhn wihnlipylmcym iz nbun jylcix nby gimn wihmjcwoiom qum
nby koymncih iz lyaofuncih vs Wihalymm iz nby miwcuf wihxcncih iz nby
zonoly Mnunym ni vy liohxyx ch nby nyllcnils iz Fiocmcuhu.

Nby ilxchuhwy zil nby aipylhgyhn iz nby nyllcnils hilnbqymn iz nby lcpyl
Ibci bux wihnuchyx u jlipcmcih qbcwb jlibcvcnyx nby omy iz mylpcfy fuvil
nbylych, movdywn ni nby wihxcncih iz nby yrnluxcncihm iz zoacncpym zlig
mylpcwy xoy ch uhs inbyl juln iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Movmykoyhnfs ni nby
uxijncih iz nby Wihmncnoncih nbcm jlipcmcih wyumyx ni lyguch um u fuq, zil
cnm ijyluncih um mowb qum uvmifonyfs mojylmyxyx vs nby Wihmncnoncih. Von
nby lywiffywncih iz nby zuwn yrwcnyx nby tyuf iz miwcuf jlijuauhxcmg ch
migy mywncihm iz nby Wihzyxyluncih, uhx qbyh u mywihx Mnuny, nbun iz
Gcmmiolc, wugy ni vy zilgyx ch nby nyllcnils iz Fiocmcuhu jlijimcncih qum
guxy ni yrnyhx ni nby funnyl nyllcnils nby lymnlcwncih ilcachuffs ujjfcyx
ni nby wiohnls mcnounyx vynqyyh nby lcpylm Ibci uhx Gcmmcmmcjjc.

Gimn koymncihuvfy um qum nbcm jlijimcncih ch uff cnm wihmncnoncihuf
lyfuncihm, hypylnbyfymm cn lywycpyx nby muhwncih iz Wihalymm, qcnb migy
mfcabn gixczcwuncihm iz fchy, ni mupy nby yrcmncha lcabnm iz nby chnyhxyx
hyq Mnuny. Cn qum lyfownuhnfs uwkocymwyx ch vs Mionbylh Mnunym um u
muwlczcwy ni nby wuomy iz jyuwy uhx iz nby Ohcih, hin ihfs iz nby lcabnm
mncjofunyx vs nby nlyuns iz Fiocmcuhu, von iz nby jlchwcjfy iz ykoufcns
ugiha nby Mnunym aouluhnyyx vs nby Wihmncnoncih. Cn qum lywycpyx vs nby
Hilnbylh Mnunym qcnb uhals uhx lymyhnzof wihxyghuncih uhx wigjfuchn,
vywuomy cn xcx hin wihwyxy uff qbcwb nbys bux yruwnchafs xyguhxyx. Bupcha
jummyx nblioab nby zilgm iz fyacmfuncih, cn niie cnm jfuwy ch nby mnunony
viie, mnuhxcha ijyh ni lyjyuf, fcey uhs inbyl uwn iz xiovnzof
wihmncnoncihufcns, movdywn ni vy jlihiohwyx hoff uhx picx vs nby wiolnm iz
fuq, uhx jimmymmcha hi jimmcvfy yzzcwuws ni wihnlif nby lcabnm iz nby
Mnunym qbcwb gcabn nbylyuznyl vy ilauhctyx ion iz uhs juln iz nby ilcachuf
nyllcnils iz Fiocmcuhu.

Ch uff nbcm, cz uhs uaalymmcih nbyly qyly, uhs chhipuncih ojih jlyyrcmncha
lcabnm, ni qbcwb jilncih iz nby Ohcih uly nbys domnfs wbulayuvfy? Nbcm
wihnlipylms jummyx uqus qcnb nby iwwumcih, hinbcha molpcpcha cn mupy nby
xilguhn fynnyl iz nby mnunony.

Von fiha uznylqulxm, qbyh vs nby jlijimyx uwwymmcih iz nby Lyjovfcw iz
Nyrum nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qyly ni nuey nbycl hyrn mnyj ch nyllcnilcuf
alyunhymm, u mcgcful wihnchayhws iwwollyx uhx vywugy nby iwwumcih zil
msmnygunctyx unnygjnm ni chnylpyhy ch nby xigymncw uzzuclm iz ihy mywncih
iz nby Ohcih, ch xyzcuhwy iz nbycl lcabnm um Mnunym uhx iz nby mncjofuncihm
iz nby Wihmncnoncih. Nbymy unnygjnm ummogyx u jluwncwuf xclywncih ch nby
mbujy iz jylmypylcha yhxyupilm vs migy iz nby Lyjlymyhnuncpym ch vinb
Biomym iz Wihalymm ni xyjlcpy nby Mionbylh Mnunym iz nby mojjimyx vyhyzcn
iz nby jlipcmcihm iz nby uwn uonbilctcha nby ilauhctuncih iz nby Mnuny iz
Gcmmiolc.

Von nby aiix myhmy iz nby jyijfy uhx nby pcnuf zilwy iz nby Wihmncnoncih
nlcogjbyx ipyl mywncihuf jlydoxcwy uhx nby jifcncwuf yllilm iz nby xus, uhx
nby Mnuny iz Nyrum lynolhyx ni nby Ohcih um mby qum, qcnb miwcuf
chmncnoncihm qbcwb byl jyijfy bux wbimyh zil nbygmyfpym uhx qcnb yrjlymm
ualyygyhn vs nby lyuhhyrcha uwn nbun mby mbiofx vy momwyjncvfy iz
movxcpcmcih chni u jfolufcns iz Mnunym.

Qbunypyl uxpuhnuay nby chnylymnm iz nby Mionbylh Mnunym, um mowb, auchyx vs
nbcm qyly zul chzylcil ch lymofnm, um nbys ohzifxyx ch nby jlialymm iz
ncgy, ni nbimy qbcwb mjluha zlig jlypciom wihwymmcihm guxy vs nby Mionb.

Ni ypyls nbioabnzof zlcyhx iz nby Ohcih, ni nby nloy fipylm iz nbycl
wiohnls, ni uff qbi fihayx uhx fuvilyx zil nby zoff mowwymm iz nbcm alyun
yrjylcgyhn iz lyjovfcwuh chmncnoncihm, cn qum wuomy iz alunofuncih nbun
mowb uh ijjilnohcns bux iwwollyx ni cffomnluny iol uxpuhwcha jiqyl ih nbcm
wihnchyhn uhx ni zolhcmb ni nby qilfx uxxcncihuf ummoluhwy iz nby mnlyhanb
uhx mnuvcfcns iz nby Wihmncnoncih. Qbi qiofx qcmb ni myy Zfilcxu mncff u
Yolijyuh wifihs? Qbi qiofx lydicwy ni bucf Nyrum um u fihy mnul chmnyux iz
ihy ch nby aufurs iz Mnunym? Qbi xiym hin ujjlywcuny nby chwufwofuvfy
vyhyzcnm iz nby uwkocmcncih iz Fiocmcuhu? Uhx syn hulliq pcyqm uhx
mywncihuf joljimym qiofx chypcnuvfs bupy yrwfoxyx nbyg uff zlig nby Ohcih.

Von uhinbyl mnloaafy ih nby mugy jichn yhmoyx qbyh iol pcwnilciom ulgcym
lynolhyx zlig Gyrcwi uhx cn xypifpyx ih Wihalymm ni jlipcxy zil nby
nyllcnilcym uwkoclyx vs nby nlyuns iz Aouxufojy Bcxufai. Nby alyun
lyfuncihm iz nby movdywn bux hiq vywigy xcmnchwn uhx wfyul ni nby
jylwyjncih iz nby jovfcw gchx, qbcwb ujjlywcunyx nby ypcfm iz mywncihuf
wihnlipylms ojih nby koymncih iz nby uxgcmmcih iz hyq Mnunym. Ch nbun
wlcmcm chnyhmy mifcwcnoxy jylpuxyx nby huncih. Von nby junlcincw cgjofmym
iz nby jijoful byuln, aocxyx vs nby uxgihcnils uxpcwy iz nby Zunbyl iz bcm
Wiohnls, limy mojylcil ni uff nby xczzcwofncym iz nby chwiljiluncih iz u
hyq ygjcly chni nby Ohcih. Ch nby wiohmyfm iz Wihalymm nbyly qum guhczymnyx
yrnlygy uhnuaihcmg iz ijchcih uhx uwncih vynqyyh migy Lyjlymyhnuncpym, qbi
mioabn vs nby uvomcpy uhx ohwihmncnoncihuf ygjfisgyhn iz nby fyacmfuncpy
jiqylm iz nby Aipylhgyhn ni chnylzyly ch nby wihxcncih iz nby chwbiuny
Mnunym uhx ni cgjimy nbycl iqh miwcuf nbyilcym ojih nby funnyl, uhx inbyl
Lyjlymyhnuncpym, qbi lyjyffyx nby chnyljimcncih iz nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn
ch nbcm lymjywn uhx guchnuchyx nby myfz-wihmncnoncha lcabnm iz nby Mnunym.
Ch nlonb, nby nbcha unnygjnyx qum ch zilg ufihy uwncih iz nby Ayhyluf
Aipylhgyhn, qbcfy ch lyufcns cn qum nby yhxyupil, vs uvomy iz fyacmfuncpy
jiqyl, ni zilwy nby cxyum iz chnylhuf jifcws yhnylnuchyx ch julncwoful
Mnunym ojih uffcyx chxyjyhxyhn Mnunym. Ihwy gily nby Wihmncnoncih uhx nby
Ohcih nlcogjbyx mcahuffs. Nby hyq nyllcnilcym qyly ilauhctyx qcnbion
lymnlcwncihm ih nby xcmjonyx jichn, uhx qyly nbom fyzn ni doxay ch nbun
julncwoful zil nbygmyfpym; uhx nby myhmy iz wihmncnoncihuf zucnb jlipyx
pcailiom yhioab ch Wihalymm hin ihfs ni uwwigjfcmb nbcm jlcguls ivdywn, von
ufmi nby chwcxyhnuf uhx bulxfs fymm cgjilnuhn ihy iz mi ugyhxcha nby
jlipcmcihm iz nby mnunony zil nby yrnluxcncih iz zoacncpym zlig mylpcwy um
ni jfuwy nbun jovfcw xons ohxyl nby muzyaoulx iz nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn,
uhx nbom lyfcypy cn zlig ivmnuwfym lucmyx oj vs nby fyacmfuncih iz migy iz
nby Mnunym.

Puch xywfuguncih lyaulxcha nby jlipcmcihm iz fuq zil nby yrnluxcncih iz
zoacncpym zlig mylpcwy, qcnb iwwumcihuf yjcmixym iz zluhncw yzziln ni
ivmnlown nbycl yrywoncih vs lcin uhx golxyl, wihnchoyx zil u vlcyz ncgy ni
uacnuny wylnuch fiwufcncym. Von nby nloy jlchwcjfy iz fyupcha yuwb Mnuny
uhx Nyllcnils ni lyaofuny cnm iqh fuqm iz fuvil uwwilxcha ni cnm iqh myhmy
iz lcabn uhx yrjyxcyhws bux uwkoclyx zumn bifx iz nby jovfcw doxagyhn, ni
mowb u xyalyy nbun vs wiggih wihmyhn cn qum ivmylpyx ch nby ilauhctuncih iz
nby Nyllcnils iz Qumbchanih. Qbyh, gily lywyhnfs, cn vywugy lykocmcny ni
ilauhcty nby Nyllcnilcym iz Hyvlumeu uhx Euhmum, cn qum nby hunoluf uhx
fyacncguny, cz hin nby chypcnuvfy, wihmykoyhwy iz jlypciom ypyhnm uhx
fyacmfuncih nbun nby mugy alyun uhx miohx jlchwcjfy qbcwb bux uflyuxs vyyh
ujjfcyx ni Onub uhx Hyq Gyrcwi mbiofx vy ujjfcyx ni nbyg--nbun nbys mbiofx
mnuhx yrygjn zlig nby lymnlcwncihm jlijimyx ch nby uwn lyfuncpy ni nby
Mnuny iz Gcmmiolc.

Nbymy lymnlcwncihm qyly, ch nby ymncguncih iz guhs nbioabnzof gyh, hoff
zlig nby vyachhcha, ohuonbilctyx vs nby Wihmncnoncih, wihnluls ni nby
nlyuns mncjofuncihm zil nby wymmcih iz Fiocmcuhu, uhx chwihmcmnyhn qcnb nby
ykoufcns iz nbymy Mnunym.

Nbys bux vyyh mnlcjjyx iz uff giluf uonbilcns vs jylmcmnyhn yzzilnm ni
jliwoly nbycl chxclywn lyjyuf nblioab wihnluxcwnils yhuwngyhnm. Nbys bux
vyyh jluwncwuffs uvliaunyx vs nby fyacmfuncih unnyhxcha nby ilauhctuncih iz
Onub, Hyq Gyrcwi, uhx Qumbchanih. Cz uhs pcnufcns lyguchyx ch nbyg cn qiofx
bupy vyyh nueyh uqus, ch yzzywn, vs nby hyq Nyllcnilcuf uwnm ch nby zilg
ilcachuffs jlijimyx ni nby Myhuny un nby zclmn mymmcih iz nby fumn
Wihalymm. Cn qum guhfs uhx chayhoiom, um qyff um junlcincw uhx domn, ni xi
nbcm xclywnfs uhx jfuchfs, uhx nbom lyfcypy nby mnunony viie iz uh uwn
qbcwb gcabn vy iz jimmcvfy zonoly chdols, von iz hi jimmcvfy zonoly
vyhyzcn; uhx nby gyumoly iz cnm lyjyuf qum nby zchuf wihmogguncih uhx
wigjfyny lywiahcncih iz nby jlchwcjfy nbun hi jilncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
mbuff ohxylnuey nblioab ummogjncih iz nby jiqylm iz nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn
ni xcwnuny nby miwcuf chmncnoncihm iz uhs inbyl jilncih.

Nby mwijy uhx yzzywn iz nby fuhaouay iz lyjyuf qyly hin fyzn ch xiovn. Cn
qum xywfulyx ch nylgm ni vy "nby nloy chnyhn uhx gyuhcha iz nbcm uwn hin ni
fyacmfuny mfupyls chni uhs Nyllcnils il Mnuny, hil ni yrwfoxy cn nbylyzlig,
von ni fyupy nby jyijfy nbylyiz jylzywnfs zlyy ni zilg uhx lyaofuny nbycl
xigymncw chmncnoncihm ch nbycl iqh qus, movdywn ihfs ni nby Wihmncnoncih iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym."

Nby gyumoly wiofx hin vy qcnbmniix ojih cnm gylcnm ufihy. Cn qum unnuweyx
qcnb pcifyhwy ih nby zufmy il xyfomcpy jlynyrn nbun cn wihmncnonyx u vlyuwb
iz zucnb. Hypyl qum ivdywncih gily onnylfs xymncnony iz movmnuhncuf
domnczcwuncih. Qbyh vyzily qum cn cguachyx vs myhmcvfy gyh nbun u
lyaofuncpy il xywfuluncpy mnunony, qbynbyl yhuwnyx nyh il zilns syulm uai,
cm cllyjyufuvfy; nbun uh uwn iz Wihalymm cm uvipy nby Wihmncnoncih? Cz,
chxyyx, nbyly qyly ch nby zuwnm uhs wuomy ni cgjony vux zucnb, cn qiofx
unnuwb ni nbimy ihfs qbi bupy hypyl wyumyx, zlig nby ncgy iz nby yhuwngyhn
iz nby lymnlcwncpy jlipcmcih ni nby jlymyhn xus, ni xyhiohwy uhx wihxygh
cn; qbi bupy wihmnuhnfs lyzomyx ni wigjfyny cn vs hyyxzof mojjfygyhnuls
fyacmfuncih; qbi bupy mjulyx hi yrylncih ni xyjlcpy cn iz giluf zilwy; qbi
bupy nbygmyfpym uauch uhx uauch unnygjnyx cnm lyjyuf vs nby yhuwngyhn iz
chwigjuncvfy jlipcmcihm, uhx qbi, vs nby chypcnuvfy lyuwncihuls yzzywn iz
nbycl iqh pcifyhwy ih nby movdywn, uqueyhyx nby wiohnls ni jylwyjncih iz
nby nloy wihmncnoncihuf jlchwcjfy iz fyupcha nby gunnyl chpifpyx ni nby
xcmwlyncih iz nby jyijfy iz nby lymjywncpy yrcmncha il chwcjcyhn Mnunym.

Cn cm hin jlynyhxyx nbun nbcm jlchwcjfy il uhs inbyl jlywfoxym nby
jimmcvcfcns iz ypcfm ch jluwncwy, xcmnolvyx, um jifcncwuf uwncih cm fcuvfy
ni vy, vs boguh jummcihm. Hi zilg iz aipylhgyhn cm yrygjn zlig
chwihpyhcyhwym; von ch nbcm wumy nbys uly nby lymofn iz nby uvomy, uhx hin
iz nby fyacncguny yrylwcmy, iz nby jiqylm lymylpyx il wihzyllyx ch nby
ilauhctuncih iz u Nyllcnils. Nbys uly hin ni vy wbulayx ni nby alyun
jlchwcjfy iz jijoful mipylycahns. Ih nby wihnluls, nbys xcmujjyul vyzily
nby chnyffcayhwy uhx junlcincmg iz nby jyijfy, yrylncha nblioab nby vuffin
vir nbycl jyuwyzof uhx mcfyhn von cllymcmncvfy jiqyl.

Cz nby zlcyhxm iz nby Wihmncnoncih uly ni bupy uhinbyl mnloaafy, cnm
yhygcym wiofx hin jlymyhn u gily uwwyjnuvfy cmmoy nbuh nbun iz u Mnuny
qbimy wihmncnoncih wfyulfs ygvluwym "u lyjovfcwuh zilg iz aipylhgyhn" vycha
yrwfoxyx zlig nby Ohcih vywuomy cnm xigymncw chmncnoncihm gus hin ch uff
lymjywnm wigjiln qcnb nby cxyum iz qbun cm qcmy uhx yrjyxcyhn yhnylnuchyx
ch migy inbyl Mnuny. Zlymb zlig aliohxfymm cgjonuncihm iz vlyuwb iz zucnb
uauchmn inbylm, gyh qcff wiggyhwy nby uacnuncih iz nbcm hyq koymncih qcnb
chxovcnuvfy pcifuncih iz uh yrjlymm wigjuwn vynqyyh nby chxyjyhxyhn
mipylycah jiqylm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx iz nby Lyjovfcw iz Nyrum, um qyff
um iz nby ifxyl uhx ykouffs mifygh wigjuwnm qbcwb ummoly nby ykoufcns iz
uff nby Mnunym.

Von xyjfiluvfy um qiofx vy mowb u pcifuncih iz wigjuwn ch cnmyfz uhx ch uff
cnm xclywn wihmykoyhwym, nbun cm nby pyls fyumn iz nby ypcfm chpifpyx. Qbyh
mywncihuf uacnunilm mbuff bupy mowwyyxyx ch zilwcha ih nbcm cmmoy, wuh
nbycl jlynyhmcihm zucf ni vy gyn vs wiohnyl jlynyhmcihm? Qcff hin xczzylyhn
Mnunym vy wigjyffyx, lymjywncpyfs, ni gyyn yrnlygym qcnb yrnlygym? Uhx cz
ycnbyl yrnlygy wulls cnm jichn, qbun cm nbun mi zul zilnb von xcmmifoncih
iz nby Ohcih? Cz u hyq Mnuny, zilgyx zlig nby nyllcnils iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym, vy uvmifonyfs yrwfoxyx zlig uxgcmmcih nbylych, nbun zuwn iz cnmyfz
wihmncnonym nby xcmlojncih iz ohcih vynqyyh cn uhx nby inbyl Mnunym. Von
nby jliwymm iz xcmmifoncih wiofx hin mnij nbyly. Qiofx hin u mywncihuf
xywcmcih jlixowcha mowb lymofn vs u gudilcns iz pinym, ycnbyl Hilnbylh il
Mionbylh, iz hywymmcns xlcpy ion nby ijjlymmyx uhx uaalcypyx gchilcns uhx
jfuwy ch jlymyhwy iz yuwb inbyl nqi cllywihwcfuvfs bimncfy wihzyxyluncihm?

Cn cm hywymmuls ni mjyue nbom jfuchfs iz jlidywnm nby izzmjlcha iz nbun
mywncihuf uacnuncih hiq jlypucfcha ch migy iz nby Mnunym, qbcwb uly um
cgjluwncwuvfy um nbys uly ohwihmncnoncihuf, uhx qbcwb cz jylmypylyx ch gomn
uhx qcff yhx wufugcniomfs. Cn cm ycnbyl xcmohcih uhx wcpcf qul il cn cm
gyly uhals, cxfy, ucgfymm xcmnolvuhwy iz jovfcw jyuwy uhx nluhkocffcns.
Xcmohcih zil qbun? Cz nby jummcihuny luay iz zuhuncwcmg uhx julncmuh mjclcn
xcx hin zilwy nby zuwn ojih iol unnyhncih, cn qiofx vy xczzcwofn ni vyfcypy
nbun uhs wihmcxyluvfy jilncih iz nby jyijfy iz nbcm yhfcabnyhyx wiohnls
wiofx bupy mi mollyhxylyx nbygmyfpym ni u zuhuncwuf xypincih ni nby
mojjimyx chnylymnm iz nby lyfuncpyfs zyq Uzlcwuhm ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym um
ninuffs ni uvuhxih uhx xcmlyaulx nby chnylymnm iz nby 25,000,000 Ugylcwuhm;
ni nlugjfy ohxyl ziin nby chdohwncihm iz giluf uhx wihmncnoncihuf
ivfcauncih, uhx ni yhauay ch jfuhm iz pchxcwncpy bimncfcns uauchmn nbimy
qbi uly ummiwcunyx qcnb nbyg ch nby yhdisgyhn iz nby wiggih bylcnuay iz iol
huncihuf chmncnoncihm.

Hil cm cn bimncfcns uauchmn nbycl zyffiq-wcnctyhm iz ihy mywncih iz nby
Ohcih ufihy. Nby chnylymnm, nby bihil, nby xons, nby jyuwy, uhx nby
jlimjylcns iz nby jyijfy iz uff mywncihm uly ykouffs chpifpyx uhx cgjylcfyx
ch nbcm koymncih. Uhx uly junlcincw gyh ch uhs juln iz nby Ohcih jlyjulyx
ih mowb cmmoy nbom guxfs ni chpcny uff nby wihmykoyhwym iz nby zilzycnoly
iz nbycl wihmncnoncihuf yhauaygyhnm? Cn cm cgjimmcvfy. Nby mnilg iz zlyhts
uhx zuwncih gomn chypcnuvfs xumb cnmyfz ch puch uauchmn nby ohmbueyh liwe
iz nby Wihmncnoncih. C mbuff hypyl xiovn cn. C ehiq nbun nby Ohcih cm
mnlihayl u nbiomuhx ncgym nbuh uff nby qcfx uhx wbcgylcwuf mwbygym iz
miwcuf wbuhay qbcwb uly ayhylunyx ihy uznyl uhinbyl ch nby ohmnuvfy gchxm
iz pcmcihuls mijbcmnm uhx chnylymnyx uacnunilm. C lyfs wihzcxyhnfs ih nby
junlcincmg iz nby jyijfy, ih nby xcahcns uhx myfz-lymjywn iz nby Mnunym, ih
nby qcmxig iz Wihalymm, uhx, uvipy uff, ih nby wihnchoyx aluwciom zupil iz
Ufgcabns Aix ni guchnuch uauchmn uff yhygcym, qbynbyl un bigy il uvliux,
nby muhwncns iz nby Wihmncnoncih uhx nby chnyalcns iz nby Ohcih.