Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Gur vagrerfg jvgu juvpu gur crbcyr bs gur Erchoyvp nagvpvcngr gur
nffrzoyvat bs Pbaterff naq gur shysvyyzrag ba gung bppnfvba bs gur qhgl
vzcbfrq hcba n arj Cerfvqrag vf bar bs gur orfg rivqraprf bs gurve pncnpvgl
gb ernyvmr gur ubcrf bs gur sbhaqref bs n cbyvgvpny flfgrz ng bapr pbzcyrk
naq flzzrgevpny. Juvyr gur qvssrerag oenapurf bs gur Tbireazrag ner gb n
pregnva rkgrag vaqrcraqrag bs rnpu bgure, gur qhgvrf bs nyy nyvxr unir
qverpg ersrerapr gb gur fbhepr bs cbjre. Sbeghangryl, haqre guvf flfgrz ab
zna vf fb uvtu naq abar fb uhzoyr va gur fpnyr bs choyvp fgngvba nf gb
rfpncr sebz gur fpehgval be gb or rkrzcg sebz gur erfcbafvovyvgl juvpu nyy
bssvpvny shapgvbaf vzcyl.

Hcba gur whfgvpr naq vagryyvtrapr bs gur znffrf, va n tbireazrag guhf
betnavmrq, vf gur fbyr eryvnapr bs gur pbasrqrenpl naq gur bayl frphevgl
sbe ubarfg naq rnearfg qribgvba gb vgf vagrerfgf ntnvafg gur hfhecngvbaf
naq rapebnpuzrag bs cbjre ba gur bar unaq naq gur nffnhygf bs crefbany
nzovgvba ba gur bgure.

Gur vagrerfg bs juvpu V unir fcbxra vf vafrcnenoyr sebz na vadhvevat,
frys-tbireavat pbzzhavgl, ohg fgvzhyngrq, qbhogyrff, ng gur cerfrag gvzr ol
gur hafrggyrq pbaqvgvba bs bhe eryngvbaf jvgu frireny sbervta cbjref, ol
gur arj boyvtngvbaf erfhygvat sebz n fhqqra rkgrafvba bs gur svryq bs
ragrecevfr, ol gur fcvevg jvgu juvpu gung svryq unf orra ragrerq naq gur
nznmvat raretl jvgu juvpu vgf erfbheprf sbe zrrgvat gur qrznaqf bs uhznavgl
unir orra qrirybcrq.

Nygubhtu qvfrnfr, nffhzvat ng bar gvzr gur punenpgrevfgvpf bs n jvqrfcernq
naq qrinfgngvat crfgvyrapr, unf yrsg vgf fnq genprf hcba fbzr cbegvbaf bs
bhe pbhagel, jr unir fgvyy gur zbfg nohaqnag pnhfr sbe erirerag
gunaxshyarff gb Tbq sbe na npphzhyngvba bs fvtany zrepvrf fubjrerq hcba hf
nf n angvba. Vg vf jryy gung n pbafpvbhfarff bs encvq nqinaprzrag naq
vapernfvat fgeratgu or unovghnyyl nffbpvngrq jvgu na novqvat frafr bs
qrcraqrapr hcba Uvz jub ubyqf va Uvf unaqf gur qrfgval bs zra naq bs
angvbaf.

Erpbtavmvat gur jvfqbz bs gur oebnq cevapvcyr bs nofbyhgr eryvtvbhf
gbyrengvba cebpynvzrq va bhe shaqnzragny ynj, naq erwbvpvat va gur oravta
vasyhrapr juvpu vg unf rkregrq hcba bhe fbpvny naq cbyvgvpny pbaqvgvba, V
fubhyq fuevax sebz n pyrne qhgl qvq V snvy gb rkcerff zl qrrcrfg pbaivpgvba
gung jr pna cynpr ab frpher eryvnapr hcba nal nccnerag cebterff vs vg or
abg fhfgnvarq ol angvbany vagrtevgl, erfgvat hcba gur terng gehguf nssvezrq
naq vyyhfgengrq ol qvivar eriryngvba. Va gur zvqfg bs bhe fbeebj sbe gur
nssyvpgrq naq fhssrevat, vg unf orra pbafbyvat gb frr ubj cebzcgyl qvfnfgre
znqr gehr arvtuobef bs qvfgevpgf naq pvgvrf frcnengrq jvqryl sebz rnpu
bgure, naq purrevat gb jngpu gur fgeratgu bs gung pbzzba obaq bs
oebgureubbq juvpu havgrf nyy urnegf, va nyy cnegf bs guvf Havba, jura
qnatre guerngraf sebz noebnq be pnynzvgl vzcraqf bire hf ng ubzr.

Bhe qvcybzngvp eryngvbaf jvgu sbervta cbjref unir haqretbar ab rffragvny
punatr fvapr gur nqwbheazrag bs gur ynfg Pbaterff. Jvgu fbzr bs gurz
dhrfgvbaf bs n qvfgheovat punenpgre ner fgvyy craqvat, ohg gurer ner tbbq
ernfbaf gb oryvrir gung gurfr znl nyy or nzvpnoyl nqwhfgrq. Sbe fbzr lrnef
cnfg Terng Oevgnva unf fb pbafgehrq gur svefg negvpyr bs gur pbairagvba bs
gur 20gu bs Ncevy, 1818, va ertneq gb gur svfurevrf ba gur abegurnfgrea
pbnfg, nf gb rkpyhqr bhe pvgvmraf sebz fbzr bs gur svfuvat tebhaqf gb juvpu
gurl serryl erfbegrq sbe arneyl n dhnegre bs n praghel fhofrdhrag gb gur
qngr bs gung gerngl. Gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir arire npdhvrfprq va guvf
pbafgehpgvba, ohg unir nyjnlf pynvzrq sbe gurve svfurezra nyy gur evtugf
juvpu gurl unq fb ybat rawblrq jvgubhg zbyrfgngvba. Jvgu n ivrj gb erzbir
nyy qvssvphygvrf ba gur fhowrpg, gb rkgraq gur evtugf bs bhe svfurezra
orlbaq gur yvzvgf svkrq ol gur pbairagvba bs 1818, naq gb erthyngr genqr
orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gur Oevgvfu Abegu Nzrevpna Cebivaprf, n
artbgvngvba unf orra bcrarq jvgu n snve cebfcrpg bs n snibenoyr erfhyg. Gb
cebgrpg bhe svfurezra va gur rawblzrag bs gurve evtugf naq cerirag
pbyyvfvba orgjrra gurz naq Oevgvfu svfurezra, V qrrzrq vg rkcrqvrag gb
fgngvba n aniny sbepr va gung dhnegre qhevat gur svfuvat frnfba.

Rzoneenffvat dhrfgvbaf unir nyfb nevfra orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf va
ertneq gb Prageny Nzrevpn. Terng Oevgnva unf cebcbfrq gb frggyr gurz ol na
nzvpnoyr neenatrzrag, naq bhe zvavfgre ng Ybaqba vf vafgehpgrq gb ragre
vagb artbgvngvbaf ba gung fhowrpg. N pbzzvffvba sbe nqwhfgvat gur pynvzf bs
bhe pvgvmraf ntnvafg Terng Oevgnva naq gubfr bs Oevgvfu fhowrpgf ntnvafg
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, betnavmrq haqre gur pbairagvba bs gur 8gu bs Sroehnel
ynfg, vf abj fvggvat va Ybaqba sbe gur genafnpgvba bs ohfvarff. Vg vf va
znal erfcrpgf qrfvenoyr gung gur obhaqnel yvar orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf
naq gur Oevgvfu Cebivaprf va gur abegujrfg, nf qrfvtangrq va gur pbairagvba
bs gur 15gu bs Whar, 1846, naq rfcrpvnyyl gung cneg juvpu frcnengrf gur
Greevgbel bs Jnfuvatgba sebz gur Oevgvfu cbffrffvbaf ba gur abegu, fubhyq
or genprq naq znexrq. V gurersber cerfrag gur fhowrpg gb lbhe abgvpr.

Jvgu Senapr bhe eryngvbaf pbagvahr ba gur zbfg sevraqyl sbbgvat. Gur
rkgrafvir pbzzrepr orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gung pbhagel zvtug, vg vf
pbaprvirq, or eryrnfrq sebz fbzr haarprffnel erfgevpgvbaf gb gur zhghny
nqinagntr bs obgu cnegvrf. Jvgu n ivrj gb guvf bowrpg, fbzr cebterff unf
orra znqr va artbgvngvat n gerngl bs pbzzrepr naq anivtngvba.

Vaqrcraqragyl bs bhe inyhnoyr genqr jvgu Fcnva, jr unir vzcbegnag cbyvgvpny
eryngvbaf jvgu ure tebjvat bhg bs bhe arvtuobeubbq gb gur vfynaqf bs Phon
naq Cbegb Evpb. V nz unccl gb naabhapr gung fvapr gur ynfg Pbaterff ab
nggrzcgf unir orra znqr ol hanhgubevmrq rkcrqvgvbaf jvguva gur Havgrq
Fgngrf ntnvafg rvgure bs gubfr pbybavrf. Fubhyq nal zbirzrag or znavsrfgrq
jvguva bhe yvzvgf, nyy gur zrnaf ng zl pbzznaq jvyy or ivtbebhfyl rkregrq
gb ercerff vg. Frireny naablvat bppheeraprf unir gnxra cynpr ng Uninan, be
va gur ivpvavgl bs gur vfynaq bs Phon, orgjrra bhe pvgvmraf naq gur Fcnavfu
nhgubevgvrf. Pbafvqrevat gur cebkvzvgl bs gung vfynaq gb bhe fuberf, ylvat,
nf vg qbrf, va gur genpx bs genqr orgjrra fbzr bs bhe cevapvcny pvgvrf, naq
gur fhfcvpvbhf ivtvynapr jvgu juvpu sbervta vagrepbhefr, cnegvphyneyl gung
jvgu gur Havgrq Fgngrf, vf gurer thneqrq, n ercrgvgvba bs fhpu bppheeraprf
znl jryy or ncceruraqrq.

Nf ab qvcybzngvp vagrepbhefr vf nyybjrq orgjrra bhe pbafhy ng Uninan naq
gur Pncgnva-Trareny bs Phon, ernql rkcynangvbaf pna abg or znqr be cebzcg
erqerff nssbeqrq jurer vawhel unf erfhygrq. Nyy pbzcynvag ba gur cneg bs
bhe pvgvmraf haqre gur cerfrag neenatrzrag zhfg or, va gur svefg cynpr,
cerfragrq gb guvf Tbireazrag naq gura ersreerq gb Fcnva. Fcnva ntnva ersref
vg gb ure ybpny nhgubevgvrf va Phon sbe vairfgvtngvba, naq cbfgcbarf na
nafjre gvyy fur unf urneq sebz gubfr nhgubevgvrf. Gb nibvq gurfr veevgngvat
naq irkngvbhf qrynlf, n cebcbfvgvba unf orra znqr gb cebivqr sbe n qverpg
nccrny sbe erqerff gb gur Pncgnva-Trareny ol bhe pbafhy va orunys bs bhe
vawherq sryybj-pvgvmraf. Uvguregb gur Tbireazrag bs Fcnva unf qrpyvarq gb
ragre vagb nal fhpu neenatrzrag. Guvf pbhefr ba ure cneg vf qrrcyl
erterggrq, sbe jvgubhg fbzr neenatrzrag bs guvf xvaq gur tbbq haqrefgnaqvat
orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf znl or rkcbfrq gb bppnfvbany vagreehcgvba. Bhe
zvavfgre ng Znqevq vf vafgehpgrq gb erarj gur cebcbfvgvba naq gb cerff vg
ntnva hcba gur pbafvqrengvba bs Ure Pngubyvp Znwrfgl'f Tbireazrag.

Sbe frireny lrnef Fcnva unf orra pnyyvat gur nggragvba bs guvf Tbireazrag
gb n pynvz sbe ybffrf ol fbzr bs ure fhowrpgf va gur pnfr bs gur fpubbare
Nzvfgnq. Guvf pynvz vf oryvrirq gb erfg ba gur boyvtngvbaf vzcbfrq ol bhe
rkvfgvat gerngl jvgu gung pbhagel. Vgf whfgvpr jnf nqzvggrq va bhe
qvcybzngvp pbeerfcbaqrapr jvgu gur Fcnavfu Tbireazrag nf rneyl nf Znepu,
1847, naq bar bs zl cerqrprffbef, va uvf naahny zrffntr bs gung lrne,
erpbzzraqrq gung cebivfvba fubhyq or znqr sbe vgf cnlzrag. Va Wnahnel ynfg
vg jnf ntnva fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff ol gur Rkrphgvir. Vg unf erprvirq n
snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba ol pbzzvggrrf bs obgu oenapurf, ohg nf lrg gurer
unf orra ab svany npgvba hcba vg. V pbaprvir gung tbbq snvgu erdhverf vgf
cebzcg nqwhfgzrag, naq V cerfrag vg gb lbhe rneyl naq snibenoyr
pbafvqrengvba.

Znegva Xbfmgn, n Uhatnevna ol ovegu, pnzr gb guvf pbhagel va 1850, naq
qrpynerq uvf vagragvba va qhr sbez bs ynj gb orpbzr n pvgvmra bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf. Nsgre erznvavat urer arneyl gjb lrnef ur ivfvgrq Ghexrl. Juvyr ng
Fzlean ur jnf sbepvoyl frvmrq, gnxra ba obneq na Nhfgevna oevt bs jne gura
ylvat va gur uneobe bs gung cynpr, naq gurer pbasvarq va vebaf, jvgu gur
nibjrq qrfvta gb gnxr uvz vagb gur qbzvavbaf bs Nhfgevn. Bhe pbafhy ng
Fzlean naq yrtngvba ng Pbafgnagvabcyr vagrecbfrq sbe uvf eryrnfr, ohg gurve
rssbegf jrer varssrpghny. Juvyr guhf va cevfba Pbzznaqre Vatenunz, jvgu gur
Havgrq Fgngrf fuvc bs jne Fg. Ybhvf, neevirq ng Fzlean, naq nsgre vadhvevat
vagb gur pvephzfgnaprf bs gur pnfr pnzr gb gur pbapyhfvba gung Xbfmgn jnf
ragvgyrq gb gur cebgrpgvba bs guvf Tbireazrag, naq gbbx raretrgvp naq
cebzcg zrnfherf sbe uvf eryrnfr. Haqre na neenatrzrag orgjrra gur ntragf bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq bs Nhfgevn, ur jnf genafsreerq gb gur phfgbql bs gur
Serapu pbafhy-trareny ng Fzlean, gurer gb erznva hagvy ur fubhyq or
qvfcbfrq bs ol gur zhghny nterrzrag bs gur pbafhyf bs gur erfcrpgvir
Tbireazragf ng gung cynpr. Chefhnag gb gung nterrzrag, ur unf orra
eryrnfrq, naq vf abj va gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gur Rzcrebe bs Nhfgevn unf znqr
gur pbaqhpg bs bhe bssvpref jub gbbx cneg va guvf genafnpgvba n fhowrpg bs
tenir pbzcynvag. Ertneqvat Xbfmgn nf fgvyy uvf fhowrpg, naq pynvzvat n
evtug gb frvmr uvz jvguva gur yvzvgf bs gur Ghexvfu Rzcver, ur unf qrznaqrq
bs guvf Tbireazrag vgf pbafrag gb gur fheeraqre bs gur cevfbare, n
qvfnibjny bs gur npgf bs vgf ntragf, naq fngvfsnpgvba sbe gur nyyrtrq
bhgentr. Nsgre n pnershy pbafvqrengvba bs gur pnfr V pnzr gb gur pbapyhfvba
gung Xbfmgn jnf frvmrq jvgubhg yrtny nhgubevgl ng Fzlean; gung ur jnf
jebatshyyl qrgnvarq ba obneq bs gur Nhfgevna oevt bs jne; gung ng gur gvzr
bs uvf frvmher ur jnf pybgurq jvgu gur angvbanyvgl bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf,
naq gung gur npgf bs bhe bssvpref, haqre gur pvephzfgnaprf bs gur pnfr,
jrer whfgvsvnoyr, naq gurve pbaqhpg unf orra shyyl nccebirq ol zr, naq n
pbzcyvnapr jvgu gur frireny qrznaqf bs gur Rzcrebe bs Nhfgevn unf orra
qrpyvarq.

Sbe n zber shyy nppbhag bs guvf genafnpgvba naq zl ivrjf va ertneq gb vg V
ersre gb gur pbeerfcbaqrapr orgjrra gur punetr q'nssnverf bs Nhfgevn naq
gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr, juvpu vf urerjvgu genafzvggrq. Gur cevapvcyrf naq
cbyvpl gurerva znvagnvarq ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvyy, jurarire n
cebcre bppnfvba bpphef, or nccyvrq naq rasbeprq.

Gur pbaqvgvba bs Puvan ng guvf gvzr eraqref vg cebonoyr gung fbzr vzcbegnag
punatrf jvyy bpphe va gung infg Rzcver juvpu jvyy yrnq gb n zber
haerfgevpgrq vagrepbhefr jvgu vg. Gur pbzzvffvbare gb gung pbhagel jub unf
orra erpragyl nccbvagrq vf vafgehpgrq gb ninvy uvzfrys bs nyy bppnfvbaf gb
bcra naq rkgraq bhe pbzzrepvny eryngvbaf, abg bayl jvgu gur Rzcver bs
Puvan, ohg jvgu bgure Nfvngvp angvbaf.

Va 1852 na rkcrqvgvba jnf frag gb Wncna, haqre gur pbzznaq bs Pbzzbqber
Creel, sbe gur checbfr bs bcravat pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr jvgu gung Rzcver.
Vagryyvtrapr unf orra erprvirq bs uvf neeviny gurer naq bs uvf univat znqr
xabja gb gur Rzcrebe bs Wncna gur bowrpg bs uvf ivfvg. Ohg vg vf abg lrg
nfpregnvarq ubj sne gur Rzcrebe jvyy or qvfcbfrq gb nonaqba uvf erfgevpgvir
cbyvpl naq bcra gung cbchybhf pbhagel gb n pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr jvgu gur
Havgrq Fgngrf.

Vg unf orra zl rnearfg qrfver gb znvagnva sevraqyl vagrepbhefr jvgu gur
Tbireazragf hcba guvf pbagvarag naq gb nvq gurz va cerfreivat tbbq
haqrefgnaqvat nzbat gurzfryirf. Jvgu Zrkvpb n qvfchgr unf nevfra nf gb gur
gehr obhaqnel yvar orgjrra bhe Greevgbel bs Arj Zrkvpb naq gur Zrkvpna
Fgngr bs Puvuhnuhn. N sbezre pbzzvffvbare bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, rzcyblrq va
ehaavat gung yvar chefhnag gb gur gerngl bs Thnqnyhcr Uvqnytb, znqr n
frevbhf zvfgnxr va qrgrezvavat gur vavgvny cbvag ba gur Evb Tenaqr; ohg
vanfzhpu nf uvf qrpvfvba jnf pyrneyl n qrcnegher sebz gur qverpgvbaf sbe
genpvat gur obhaqnel pbagnvarq va gung gerngl, naq jnf abg pbapheerq va ol
gur fheirlbe nccbvagrq ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jubfr pbapheerapr
jnf arprffnel gb tvir inyvqvgl gb gung qrpvfvba, guvf Tbireazrag vf abg
pbapyhqrq gurerol; ohg gung bs Zrkvpb gnxrf n qvssrerag ivrj bs gur
fhowrpg.

Gurer ner nyfb bgure dhrfgvbaf bs pbafvqrenoyr zntavghqr craqvat orgjrra
gur gjb Erchoyvpf. Bhe zvavfgre va Zrkvpb unf nzcyr vafgehpgvbaf gb nqwhfg
gurz. Artbgvngvbaf unir orra bcrarq, ohg fhssvpvrag cebterff unf abg orra
znqr gurerva gb ranoyr zr gb fcrnx bs gur cebonoyr erfhyg. Vzcerffrq jvgu
gur vzcbegnapr bs znvagnvavat nzvpnoyr eryngvbaf jvgu gung Erchoyvp naq bs
lvryqvat jvgu yvorenyvgl gb nyy ure whfg pynvzf, vg vf ernfbanoyr gb rkcrpg
gung na neenatrzrag zhghnyyl fngvfsnpgbel gb obgu pbhagevrf znl or
pbapyhqrq naq n ynfgvat sevraqfuvc orgjrra gurz pbasvezrq naq crecrghngrq.

Pbaterff univat cebivqrq sbe n shyy zvffvba gb gur Fgngrf bs Prageny
Nzrevpn, n zvavfgre jnf frag guvgure va Whyl ynfg. Nf lrg ur unf unq gvzr
gb ivfvg bayl bar bs gurfr Fgngrf (Avpnenthn), jurer ur jnf erprvirq va gur
zbfg sevraqyl znaare. Vg vf ubcrq gung uvf cerfrapr naq tbbq bssvprf jvyy
unir n oravta rssrpg va pbzcbfvat gur qvffrafvbaf juvpu cerinvy nzbat gurz,
naq va rfgnoyvfuvat fgvyy zber vagvzngr naq sevraqyl eryngvbaf orgjrra gurz
erfcrpgviryl naq orgjrra rnpu bs gurz naq gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Pbafvqrevat gur infg ertvbaf bs guvf pbagvarag naq gur ahzore bs fgngrf
juvpu jbhyq or znqr npprffvoyr ol gur serr anivtngvba bs gur evire Nznmba,
cnegvphyne nggragvba unf orra tvira gb guvf fhowrpg. Oenmvy, guebhtu jubfr
greevgbevrf vg cnffrf vagb gur bprna, unf uvguregb crefvfgrq va n cbyvpl fb
erfgevpgrq va ertneq gb gur hfr bs guvf evire nf gb bofgehpg naq arneyl
rkpyhqr sbervta pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr jvgu gur Fgngrf juvpu yvr hcba vgf
gevohgnevrf naq hccre oenapurf. Bhe zvavfgre gb gung pbhagel vf vafgehpgrq
gb bognva n erynkngvba bs gung cbyvpl naq gb hfr uvf rssbegf gb vaqhpr gur
Oenmvyvna Tbireazrag gb bcra gb pbzzba hfr, haqre cebcre fnsrthneqf, guvf
terng angheny uvtujnl sbe vagreangvbany genqr. Frireny bs gur Fbhgu
Nzrevpna Fgngrf ner qrrcyl vagrerfgrq va guvf nggrzcg gb frpher gur serr
anivtngvba bs gur Nznmba, naq vg vf ernfbanoyr gb rkcrpg gurve pbbcrengvba
va gur zrnfher. Nf gur nqinagntrf bs serr pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr nzbat
angvbaf ner orggre haqrefgbbq, zber yvoreny ivrjf ner trarenyyl ragregnvarq
nf gb gur pbzzba evtugf bs nyy gb gur serr hfr bs gubfr zrnaf juvpu angher
unf cebivqrq sbe vagreangvbany pbzzhavpngvba. Gb gurfr zber yvoreny naq
rayvtugrarq ivrjf vg vf ubcrq gung Oenmvy jvyy pbasbez ure cbyvpl naq
erzbir nyy haarprffnel erfgevpgvbaf hcba gur serr hfr bs n evire juvpu
genirefrf fb znal fgngrf naq fb ynetr n cneg bs gur pbagvarag. V nz unccl
gb vasbez lbh gung gur Erchoyvp bs Cnenthnl naq gur Netragvar Pbasrqrengvba
unir lvryqrq gb gur yvoreny cbyvpl fgvyy erfvfgrq ol Oenmvy va ertneq gb
gur anivtnoyr eviref jvguva gurve erfcrpgvir greevgbevrf. Gerngvrf
rzoenpvat guvf fhowrpg, nzbat bguref, unir orra artbgvngrq jvgu gurfr
Tbireazragf, juvpu jvyy or fhozvggrq gb gur Frangr ng gur cerfrag frffvba.

N arj oenapu bs pbzzrepr, vzcbegnag gb gur ntevphygheny vagrerfgf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, unf jvguva n srj lrnef cnfg orra bcrarq jvgu Creh.
Abgjvgufgnaqvat gur varkunhfgvoyr qrcbfvgf bs thnab hcba gur vfynaqf bs
gung pbhagel, pbafvqrenoyr qvssvphygvrf ner rkcrevraprq va bognvavat gur
erdhvfvgr fhccyl. Zrnfherf unir orra gnxra gb erzbir gurfr qvssvphygvrf naq
gb frpher n zber nohaqnag vzcbegngvba bs gur negvpyr. Hasbeghangryl, gurer
unf orra n frevbhf pbyyvfvba orgjrra bhe pvgvmraf jub unir erfbegrq gb gur
Puvapun Vfynaqf sbe vg naq gur Crehivna nhgubevgvrf fgngvbarq gurer.
Erqerff sbe gur bhgentrf pbzzvggrq ol gur ynggre jnf cebzcgyl qrznaqrq ol
bhe zvavfgre ng Yvzn. Guvf fhowrpg vf abj haqre pbafvqrengvba, naq gurer vf
ernfba gb oryvrir gung Creh vf qvfcbfrq gb bssre nqrdhngr vaqrzavgl gb gur
nttevrirq cnegvrf. Jr ner guhf abg bayl ng crnpr jvgu nyy sbervta
pbhagevrf, ohg, va ertneq gb cbyvgvpny nssnvef, ner rkrzcg sebz nal pnhfr
bs frevbhf qvfdhvrghqr va bhe qbzrfgvp eryngvbaf.

Gur pbagebirefvrf juvpu unir ntvgngrq gur pbhagel urergbsber ner cnffvat
njnl jvgu gur pnhfrf juvpu cebqhprq gurz naq gur cnffvbaf juvpu gurl unq
njnxrarq; be, vs nal genpr bs gurz erznvaf, vg znl or ernfbanoyl ubcrq gung
vg jvyy bayl or creprvirq va gur mrnybhf evinyel bs nyy tbbq pvgvmraf gb
grfgvsl gurve erfcrpg sbe gur evtugf bs gur Fgngrf, gurve qribgvba gb gur
Havba, naq gurve pbzzba qrgrezvangvba gung rnpu bar bs gur Fgngrf, vgf
vafgvghgvbaf, vgf jrysner, naq vgf qbzrfgvp crnpr, funyy or uryq nyvxr
frpher haqre gur fnperq nrtvf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba. Guvf arj yrnthr bs nzvgl
naq bs zhghny pbasvqrapr naq fhccbeg vagb juvpu gur crbcyr bs gur Erchoyvp
unir ragrerq unccvyl nssbeqf vaqhprzrag naq bccbeghavgl sbe gur nqbcgvba bs
n zber pbzcerurafvir naq harzoneenffrq yvar bs cbyvpl naq npgvba nf gb gur
terng zngrevny vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel, jurgure ertneqrq va gurzfryirf be
va pbaarpgvba jvgu gur cbjref bs gur pvivyvmrq jbeyq.

Gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir pbagvahrq tenqhnyyl naq fgrnqvyl gb rkcnaq guebhtu
npdhvfvgvbaf bs greevgbel, juvpu, ubj zhpu fbrire fbzr bs gurz znl unir
orra dhrfgvbarq, ner abj havirefnyyl frra naq nqzvggrq gb unir orra jvfr va
cbyvpl, whfg va punenpgre, naq n terng ryrzrag va gur nqinaprzrag bs bhe
pbhagel, naq jvgu vg bs gur uhzna enpr, va serrqbz, va cebfcrevgl, naq va
unccvarff. Gur guvegrra Fgngrf unir tebja gb or guvegl-bar, jvgu eryngvbaf
ernpuvat gb Rhebcr ba gur bar fvqr naq ba gur bgure gb gur qvfgnag ernyzf
bs Nfvn.

V nz qrrcyl frafvoyr bs gur vzzrafr erfcbafvovyvgl juvpu gur cerfrag
zntavghqr bs gur Erchoyvp naq gur qvirefvgl naq zhygvcyvpvgl bs vgf
vagrerfgf qribyirf hcba zr, gur nyyrivngvba bs juvpu fb sne nf eryngrf gb
gur vzzrqvngr pbaqhpg bs gur choyvp ohfvarff, vf, svefg, va zl eryvnapr ba
gur jvfqbz naq cngevbgvfz bs gur gjb Ubhfrf bs Pbaterff, naq, frpbaqyl, va
gur qverpgvbaf nssbeqrq zr ol gur cevapvcyrf bs choyvp cbyvgl nssvezrq ol
bhe snguref bs gur rcbpu bs 1798, fnapgvbarq ol ybat rkcrevrapr, naq
pbafrpengrq narj ol gur birejuryzvat ibvpr bs gur crbcyr bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf.

Erpheevat gb gurfr cevapvcyrf, juvpu pbafgvghgr gur betnavp onfvf bs havba,
jr creprvir gung infg nf ner gur shapgvbaf naq gur qhgvrf bs gur Srqreny
Tbireazrag, irfgrq va be vagehfgrq gb vgf guerr terng qrcnegzragf--gur
yrtvfyngvir, rkrphgvir, naq whqvpvny--lrg gur fhofgnagvir cbjre, gur
cbchyne sbepr, naq gur ynetr pncnpvgvrf sbe fbpvny naq zngrevny qrirybczrag
rkvfg va gur erfcrpgvir Fgngrf, juvpu, nyy orvat bs gurzfryirf
jryy-pbafgvghgrq erchoyvpf, nf gurl cerprqrq fb gurl nybar ner pncnoyr bs
znvagnvavat naq crecrghngvat gur Nzrevpna Havba. Gur Srqreny Tbireazrag unf
vgf nccebcevngr yvar bs npgvba va gur fcrpvsvp naq yvzvgrq cbjref pbasreerq
ba vg ol gur Pbafgvghgvba, puvrsyl nf gb gubfr guvatf va juvpu gur Fgngrf
unir n pbzzba vagrerfg va gurve eryngvbaf gb bar nabgure naq gb sbervta
tbireazragf, juvyr gur terng znff bs vagrerfgf juvpu orybat gb phygvingrq
zra--gur beqvanel ohfvarff bs yvsr, gur fcevatf bs vaqhfgel, nyy gur
qvirefvsvrq crefbany naq qbzrfgvp nssnvef bs fbpvrgl--erfg frpheryl hcba
gur trareny erfreirq cbjref bs gur crbcyr bs gur frireny Fgngrf. Gurer vf
gur rssrpgvir qrzbpenpl bs gur angvba, naq gurer gur ivgny rffrapr bs vgf
orvat naq vgf terngarff.

Bs gur cenpgvpny pbafrdhraprf juvpu sybj sebz gur angher bs gur Srqreny
Tbireazrag, gur cevznel bar vf gur qhgl bs nqzvavfgrevat jvgu vagrtevgl naq
svqryvgl gur uvtu gehfg ercbfrq va vg ol gur Pbafgvghgvba, rfcrpvnyyl va
gur nccyvpngvba bs gur choyvp shaqf nf qenja ol gnkngvba sebz gur crbcyr
naq nccebcevngrq gb fcrpvsvp bowrpgf ol Pbaterff.

Unccvyl, V unir ab bppnfvba gb fhttrfg nal enqvpny punatrf va gur svanapvny
cbyvpl bs gur Tbireazrag. Bhef vf nyzbfg, vs abg nofbyhgryl, gur fbyvgnel
cbjre bs Puevfgraqbz univat n fhecyhf erirahr qenja vzzrqvngryl sebz
vzcbfgf ba pbzzrepr, naq gurersber zrnfherq ol gur fcbagnarbhf ragrecevfr
naq angvbany cebfcrevgl bs gur pbhagel, jvgu fhpu vaqverpg eryngvba gb
ntevphygher, znahsnpgherf, naq gur cebqhpgf bs gur rnegu naq frn nf gb
ivbyngr ab pbafgvghgvbany qbpgevar naq lrg ivtbebhfyl cebzbgr gur trareny
jrysner. Arvgure nf gb gur fbheprf bs gur choyvp gernfher abe nf gb gur
znaare bs xrrcvat naq znantvat vg qbrf nal tenir pbagebirefl abj cerinvy,
gurer orvat n trareny npdhvrfprapr va gur jvfqbz bs gur cerfrag flfgrz.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel jvyy rkuvovg va qrgnvy gur
fgngr bs gur choyvp svanaprf naq gur pbaqvgvba bs gur inevbhf oenapurf bs
gur choyvp freivpr nqzvavfgrerq ol gung Qrcnegzrag bs gur Tbireazrag.

Gur erirahr bs gur pbhagel, yrivrq nyzbfg vafrafvoyl gb gur gnkcnlre, tbrf
ba sebz lrne gb lrne, vapernfvat orlbaq rvgure gur vagrerfgf be gur
cebfcrpgvir jnagf bs gur Tbireazrag.

Ng gur pybfr bs gur svfpny lrne raqvat Whar 30, 1852, gurer erznvarq va gur
Gernfhel n onynapr bs $14,632,136. Gur choyvp erirahr sbe gur svfpny lrne
raqvat Whar 30, 1853, nzbhagrq gb $58,931,865 sebz phfgbzf naq gb
$2,405,708 sebz choyvp ynaqf naq bgure zvfpryynarbhf fbheprf, nzbhagvat
gbtrgure gb $61,337,574, juvyr gur choyvp rkcraqvgherf sbe gur fnzr crevbq,
rkpyhfvir bs cnlzragf ba nppbhag bs gur choyvp qrog, nzbhagrq gb
$43,554,262, yrnivat n onynapr bs $32,425,447 bs erprvcgf nobir
rkcraqvgherf.

Guvf snpg bs vapernfvat fhecyhf va gur Gernfhel orpnzr gur fhowrpg bs
nakvbhf pbafvqrengvba ng n irel rneyl crevbq bs zl Nqzvavfgengvba, naq gur
cngu bs qhgl va ertneq gb vg frrzrq gb zr boivbhf naq pyrne, anzryl: Svefg,
gb nccyl gur fhecyhf erirahr gb gur qvfpunetr bs gur choyvp qrog fb sne nf
vg pbhyq whqvpvbhfyl or qbar, naq, frpbaqyl, gb qrivfr zrnaf sbe gur
tenqhny erqhpgvba bs gur erirahr gb gur fgnaqneq bs gur choyvp rkvtrapvrf.

Bs gurfr bowrpgf gur svefg unf orra va gur pbhefr bs nppbzcyvfuzrag va n
znaare naq gb n qrterr uvtuyl fngvfsnpgbel. Gur nzbhag bs gur choyvp qrog
bs nyy pynffrf jnf ba gur 4gu bs Znepu, 1853, $69,190,037, cnlzragf ba
nppbhag bs juvpu unir orra znqr fvapr gung crevbq gb gur nzbhag bs
$12,703,329, yrnivat hacnvq naq va pbagvahbhf pbhefr bs yvdhvqngvba gur fhz
bs $56,486,708. Gurfr cnlzragf, nygubhtu znqr ng gur znexrg cevpr bs gur
erfcrpgvir pynffrf bs fgbpxf, unir orra rssrpgrq ernqvyl naq gb gur trareny
nqinagntr bs gur Gernfhel, naq unir ng gur fnzr gvzr cebirq bs fvtany
hgvyvgl va gur eryvrs gurl unir vapvqragnyyl nssbeqrq gb gur zbarl znexrg
naq gb gur vaqhfgevny naq pbzzrepvny chefhvgf bs gur pbhagel.

Gur frpbaq bs gur nobir-zragvbarq bowrpgf, gung bs gur erqhpgvba bs gur
gnevss, vf bs terng vzcbegnapr, naq gur cyna fhttrfgrq ol gur Frpergnel bs
gur Gernfhel, juvpu vf gb erqhpr gur qhgvrf ba pregnva negvpyrf naq gb nqq
gb gur serr yvfg znal negvpyrf abj gnkrq, naq rfcrpvnyyl fhpu nf ragre vagb
znahsnpgherf naq ner abg ynetryl, be ng nyy, cebqhprq va gur pbhagel, vf
pbzzraqrq gb lbhe pnaqvq naq pnershy pbafvqrengvba.

Lbh jvyy svaq va gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel, nyfb,
nohaqnag cebbs bs gur ragver nqrdhnpl bs gur cerfrag svfpny flfgrz gb zrrg
nyy gur erdhverzragf bs gur choyvp freivpr, naq gung, juvyr cebcreyl
nqzvavfgrerq, vg bcrengrf gb gur nqinagntr bs gur pbzzhavgl va beqvanel
ohfvarff eryngvbaf.

V erfcrpgshyyl nfx lbhe nggragvba gb fhaqel fhttrfgvbaf bs vzcebirzragf va
gur frggyrzrag bs nppbhagf, rfcrpvnyyl nf ertneqf gur ynetr fhzf bs
bhgfgnaqvat neernef qhr gb gur Tbireazrag, naq bs bgure ersbezf va gur
nqzvavfgengvir npgvba bs uvf Qrcnegzrag juvpu ner vaqvpngrq ol gur
Frpergnel; nf nyfb gb gur cebterff znqr va gur pbafgehpgvba bs znevar
ubfcvgnyf, phfgbz-ubhfrf, naq bs n arj zvag va Pnyvsbeavn naq nffnl bssvpr
va gur pvgl bs Arj Lbex, urergbsber cebivqrq sbe ol Pbaterff, naq nyfb gb
gur rzvaragyl fhpprffshy cebterff bs gur Pbnfg Fheirl naq bs gur Yvtug
Ubhfr Obneq.

Nzbat gur bowrpgf zrevgvat lbhe nggragvba jvyy or vzcbegnag erpbzzraqngvbaf
sebz gur Frpergnevrf bs Jne naq Anil. V nz shyyl fngvfsvrq gung gur Anil bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf vf abg va n pbaqvgvba bs fgeratgu naq rssvpvrapl
pbzzrafhengr jvgu gur zntavghqr bs bhe pbzzrepvny naq bgure vagrerfgf, naq
pbzzraq gb lbhe rfcrpvny nggragvba gur fhttrfgvbaf ba guvf fhowrpg znqr ol
gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil. V erfcrpgshyyl fhozvg gung gur Nezl, juvpu haqre
bhe flfgrz zhfg nyjnlf or ertneqrq jvgu gur uvturfg vagrerfg nf n ahpyrhf
nebhaq juvpu gur ibyhagrre sbeprf bs gur angvba tngure va gur ubhe bs
qnatre, erdhverf nhtzragngvba, be zbqvsvpngvba, gb nqncg vg gb gur cerfrag
rkgraqrq yvzvgf naq sebagvre eryngvbaf bs gur pbhagel naq gur pbaqvgvba bs
gur Vaqvna gevorf va gur vagrevbe bs gur pbagvarag, gur arprffvgl bs juvpu
jvyy nccrne va gur pbzzhavpngvbaf bs gur Frpergnevrf bs Jne naq gur
Vagrevbe.

Va gur nqzvavfgengvba bs gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag sbe gur svfpny lrne
raqvat Whar 30, 1853, gur tebff rkcraqvgher jnf $7,982,756, naq gur tebff
erprvcgf qhevat gur fnzr crevbq $5,942,734, fubjvat gung gur pheerag
erirahr snvyrq gb zrrg gur pheerag rkcrafrf bs gur Qrcnegzrag ol gur fhz bs
$2,042,032. Gur pnhfrf juvpu, haqre gur cerfrag cbfgny flfgrz naq ynjf, yrq
varivgnoyl gb guvf erfhyg ner shyyl rkcynvarq ol gur ercbeg bs gur
Cbfgznfgre-Trareny, bar terng pnhfr orvat gur rabezbhf engrf gur Qrcnegzrag
unf orra pbzcryyrq gb cnl sbe znvy freivpr eraqrerq ol envyebnq pbzcnavrf.

Gur rkuvovg va gur ercbeg bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny bs gur vapbzr naq
rkcraqvgherf ol znvy fgrnzref jvyy or sbhaq crphyvneyl vagrerfgvat naq bs n
punenpgre gb qrznaq gur vzzrqvngr npgvba bs Pbaterff.

Ahzrebhf naq syntenag senhqf hcba gur Crafvba Ohernh unir orra oebhtug gb
yvtug jvguva gur ynfg lrne, naq va fbzr vafgnaprf zrevgrq chavfuzragf
vasyvpgrq; ohg, hasbeghangryl, va bguref thvygl cnegvrf unir rfpncrq, abg
guebhtu gur jnag bs fhssvpvrag rivqrapr gb jneenag n pbaivpgvba, ohg va
pbafrdhrapr bs gur cebivfvbaf bs yvzvgngvba va gur rkvfgvat ynjf.

Sebz gur angher bs gurfr pynvzf, gur erzbgrarff bs gur gevohanyf gb cnff
hcba gurz, naq gur zbqr va juvpu gur cebbs vf bs arprffvgl sheavfurq,
grzcgngvbaf gb pevzr unir orra terngyl fgvzhyngrq ol gur boivbhf
qvssvphygvrf bs qrgrpgvba. Gur qrsrpgf va gur ynj hcba guvf fhowrpg ner fb
nccnerag naq fb sngny gb gur raqf bs whfgvpr gung lbhe rneyl npgvba
eryngvat gb vg vf zbfg qrfvenoyr.

Qhevat gur ynfg svfpny lrne 9,819,411 nperf bs gur choyvp ynaqf unir orra
fheirlrq naq 10,363,891 nperf oebhtug vagb znexrg. Jvguva gur fnzr crevbq
gur fnyrf ol choyvp chepunfr naq cevingr ragel nzbhagrq gb 1,083,495 nperf;
ybpngrq haqre zvyvgnel obhaglf naq jneenagf, 6,142,360 nperf; ybpngrq haqre
bgure pregvsvpngrf, 9,427 nperf; prqrq gb gur Fgngrf nf fjnzc ynaqf,
16,684,253 nperf; fryrpgrq sbe envyebnq naq bgure bowrpgf haqre npgf bs
Pbaterff, 1,427,457 nperf: gbgny nzbhag bs ynaqf qvfcbfrq bs jvguva gur
svfpny lrne, 25,346,992 nperf, juvpu vf na vapernfr va dhnagvgl fbyq naq
ybpngrq haqre ynaq jneenagf naq tenagf bs 12,231, 818 nperf bire gur svfpny
lrne vzzrqvngryl cerprqvat. Gur dhnagvgl bs ynaq fbyq qhevat gur frpbaq naq
guveq dhnegref bs 1852 jnf 334,451 nperf; gur nzbhag erprvirq gurersbe jnf
$623,687. Gur dhnagvgl fbyq gur frpbaq naq guveq dhnegref bs gur lrne 1853
jnf 1,609,919 nperf, naq gur nzbhag erprvirq gurersbe $2,226,876.

Gur jubyr ahzore bs ynaq jneenagf vffhrq haqre rkvfgvat ynjf cevbe gb gur
30gu bs Frcgrzore ynfg jnf 266,042, bs juvpu gurer jrer bhgfgnaqvat ng gung
qngr 66,947. Gur dhnagvgl bs ynaq erdhverq gb fngvfsl gurfr bhgfgnaqvat
jneenagf vf 4,778,120 nperf. Jneenagf unir orra vffhrq gb 30gu bs Frcgrzore
ynfg haqre gur npg bs 11gu Sroehnel, 1847, pnyyvat sbe 12,879,280 nperf,
haqre npgf bs Frcgrzore 28, 1850, naq Znepu 22, 1852, pnyyvat sbe
12,505,360 nperf, znxvat n gbgny bs 25,384,640 nperf.

Vg vf oryvrirq gung rkcrevrapr unf irevsvrq gur jvfqbz naq whfgvpr bs gur
cerfrag flfgrz jvgu ertneq gb gur choyvp qbznva va zbfg rffragvny
cnegvphynef.

Lbh jvyy creprvir sebz gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Vagrevbe gung
bcvavbaf juvpu unir bsgra orra rkcerffrq va eryngvba gb gur bcrengvba bs
gur ynaq flfgrz nf abg orvat n fbhepr bs erirahr gb gur Srqreny Gernfhel
jrer reebarbhf. Gur arg cebsvgf sebz gur fnyr bs gur choyvp ynaqf gb Whar
30, 1853, nzbhagrq gb gur fhz bs $53,289,465.

V erpbzzraq gur rkgrafvba bs gur ynaq flfgrz bire gur Greevgbevrf bs Hgnu
naq Arj Zrkvpb, jvgu fhpu zbqvsvpngvbaf nf gurve crphyvnevgvrf znl
erdhver.

Ertneqvat bhe choyvp qbznva nf puvrsyl inyhnoyr gb cebivqr ubzrf sbe gur
vaqhfgevbhf naq ragrecevfvat, V nz abg cercnerq gb erpbzzraq nal rffragvny
punatr va gur ynaq flfgrz, rkprcg ol zbqvsvpngvbaf va snibe bs gur npghny
frggyre naq na rkgrafvba bs gur cerrzcgvba cevapvcyr va pregnva pnfrf, sbe
ernfbaf naq ba tebhaqf juvpu jvyy or shyyl qrirybcrq va gur ercbegf gb or
ynvq orsber lbh.

Pbaterff, ercerfragvat gur cebcevrgbef bs gur greevgbevny qbznva naq
punetrq rfcrpvnyyl jvgu cbjre gb qvfcbfr bs greevgbel orybatvat gb gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, unf sbe n ybat pbhefr bs lrnef, ortvaavat jvgu gur
Nqzvavfgengvba bs Ze. Wrssrefba, rkrepvfrq gur cbjre gb pbafgehpg ebnqf
jvguva gur Greevgbevrf, naq gurer ner fb znal naq boivbhf qvfgvapgvbaf
orgjrra guvf rkrepvfr bs cbjre naq gung bs znxvat ebnqf jvguva gur Fgngrf
gung gur sbezre unf arire orra pbafvqrerq fhowrpg gb fhpu bowrpgvbaf nf
nccyl gb gur ynggre; naq fhpu znl abj or pbafvqrerq gur frggyrq
pbafgehpgvba bs gur cbjre bs gur Srqreny Tbireazrag hcba gur fhowrpg.

Ahzrebhf nccyvpngvbaf unir orra naq ab qbhog jvyy pbagvahr gb or znqr sbe
tenagf bs ynaq va nvq bs gur pbafgehpgvba bs envyjnlf. Vg vf abg oryvrirq
gb or jvguva gur vagrag naq zrnavat bs gur Pbafgvghgvba gung gur cbjre gb
qvfcbfr bs gur choyvp qbznva fubhyq or hfrq bgurejvfr guna zvtug or
rkcrpgrq sebz n cehqrag cebcevrgbe naq gurersber gung tenagf bs ynaq gb nvq
va gur pbafgehpgvba bs ebnqf fubhyq or erfgevpgrq gb pnfrf jurer vg jbhyq
or sbe gur vagrerfg bs n cebcevrgbe haqre yvxr pvephzfgnaprf guhf gb
pbagevohgr gb gur pbafgehpgvba bs gurfr jbexf. Sbe gur cenpgvpny bcrengvba
bs fhpu tenagf guhf sne va nqinapvat gur vagrerfgf bs gur Fgngrf va juvpu
gur jbexf ner ybpngrq, naq ng gur fnzr gvzr gur fhofgnagvny vagrerfgf bs
nyy gur bgure Fgngrf, ol raunapvat gur inyhr naq cebzbgvat gur encvq fnyr
bs gur choyvp qbznva, V ersre lbh gb gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur
Vagrevbe. N pnershy rknzvangvba, ubjrire, jvyy fubj gung guvf rkcrevrapr vf
gur erfhyg bs n whfg qvfpevzvangvba naq jvyy or sne sebz nssbeqvat
rapbhentrzrag gb n erpxyrff be vaqvfpevzvangr rkgrafvba bs gur cevapvcyr.

V pbzzraq gb lbhe snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba gur zra bs travhf bs bhe pbhagel
jub ol gurve vairagvbaf naq qvfpbirevrf va fpvrapr naq negf unir
pbagevohgrq ynetryl gb gur vzcebirzragf bs gur ntr jvgubhg, va znal
vafgnaprf, frphevat sbe gurzfryirf nalguvat yvxr na nqrdhngr erjneq. Sbe
znal vagrerfgvat qrgnvyf hcba guvf fhowrpg V ersre lbh gb gur nccebcevngr
ercbegf, naq rfcrpvnyyl hetr hcba lbhe rneyl nggragvba gur nccneragyl
fyvtug, ohg ernyyl vzcbegnag, zbqvsvpngvbaf bs rkvfgvat ynjf gurerva
fhttrfgrq.

Gur yvoreny fcvevg juvpu unf fb ybat znexrq gur npgvba bs Pbaterff va
eryngvba gb gur Qvfgevpg bs Pbyhzovn jvyy, V unir ab qbhog, pbagvahr gb or
znavsrfgrq.

Gur rerpgvba bs na nflyhz sbe gur vafnar bs gur Qvfgevpg bs Pbyhzovn naq bs
gur Nezl naq Anil bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf orra fbzrjung ergneqrq ol gur
terng qrznaq sbe zngrevnyf naq ynobe qhevat gur cnfg fhzzre, ohg shyy
cercnengvba sbe gur erprcgvba bs cngvragf orsber gur erghea bs nabgure
jvagre vf nagvpvcngrq; naq gurer vf gur orfg ernfba gb oryvrir, sebz gur
cyna naq pbagrzcyngrq neenatrzragf juvpu unir orra qrivfrq, jvgu gur ynetr
rkcrevrapr sheavfurq jvguva gur ynfg srj lrnef va eryngvba gb gur angher
naq gerngzrag bs gur qvfrnfr, gung vg jvyy cebir na nflyhz vaqrrq gb guvf
zbfg urycyrff naq nssyvpgrq pynff bs fhssreref naq fgnaq nf n aboyr
zbahzrag bs jvfqbz naq zrepl. Haqre gur npgf bs Pbaterff bs Nhthfg 31,
1852, naq bs Znepu 3, 1853, qrfvtarq gb frpher sbe gur pvgvrf bs Jnfuvatgba
naq Trbetrgbja na nohaqnag fhccyl bs tbbq naq jubyrfbzr jngre, vg orpnzr zl
qhgl gb rknzvar gur ercbeg naq cynaf bs gur ratvarre jub unq punetr bs gur
fheirlf haqre gur npg svefg anzrq. Gur orfg, vs abg gur bayl, cyna
pnyphyngrq gb frpher creznaragyl gur bowrpg fbhtug jnf gung juvpu
pbagrzcyngrf gnxvat gur jngre sebz gur Terng Snyyf bs gur Cbgbznp, naq
pbafrdhragyl V tnir gb vg zl nccebiny.

Sbe gur cebterff naq cerfrag pbaqvgvba bs guvf vzcbegnag jbex naq sbe vgf
qrznaqf fb sne nf nccebcevngvbaf ner pbaprearq V ersre lbh gb gur ercbeg bs
gur Frpergnel bs Jne.

Gur cerfrag whqvpvny flfgrz bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf abj orra va bcrengvba
sbe fb ybat n crevbq bs gvzr naq unf va vgf trareny gurbel naq zhpu bs vgf
qrgnvyf orpbzr fb snzvyvne gb gur pbhagel naq npdhverq fb ragveryl gur
choyvp pbasvqrapr gung vs zbqvsvrq va nal erfcrpg vg fubhyq bayl or va
gubfr cnegvphynef juvpu znl nqncg vg gb gur vapernfrq rkgrag, cbchyngvba,
naq yrtny ohfvarff bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Va guvf eryngvba gur betnavmngvba
bs gur pbhegf vf abj pbasrffrqyl vanqrdhngr gb gur qhgvrf gb or cresbezrq
ol gurz, va pbafrdhrapr bs juvpu gur Fgngrf bs Sybevqn, Jvfpbafva, Vbjn,
Grknf, naq Pnyvsbeavn, naq qvfgevpgf bs bgure Fgngrf, ner va rssrpg
rkpyhqrq sebz gur shyy orarsvgf bs gur trareny flfgrz ol gur shapgvbaf bs
gur pvephvg pbheg orvat qribyirq ba gur qvfgevpg whqtrf va nyy gubfr Fgngrf
be cnegf bs Fgngrf. Gur fcvevg bs gur Pbafgvghgvba naq n qhr ertneq gb
whfgvpr erdhver gung nyy gur Fgngrf bs gur Havba fubhyq or cynprq ba gur
fnzr sbbgvat va ertneq gb gur whqvpvny gevohanyf. V gurersber pbzzraq gb
lbhe pbafvqrengvba guvf vzcbegnag fhowrpg, juvpu va zl whqtzrag qrznaqf gur
fcrrql npgvba bs Pbaterff. V jvyy cerfrag gb lbh, vs qrrzrq qrfvenoyr, n
cyna juvpu V nz cercnerq gb erpbzzraq sbe gur raynetrzrag naq zbqvsvpngvba
bs gur cerfrag whqvpvny flfgrz.

Gur npg bs Pbaterff rfgnoyvfuvat gur Fzvgufbavna Vafgvghgvba cebivqrq gung
gur Cerfvqrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq bgure crefbaf gurerva qrfvtangrq
fubhyq pbafgvghgr na "rfgnoyvfuzrag" ol gung anzr, naq gung gur zrzoref
fubhyq ubyq fgngrq naq fcrpvny zrrgvatf sbe gur fhcreivfvba bs gur nssnvef
bs gur Vafgvghgvba. Gur betnavmngvba abg univat gnxra cynpr, vg frrzrq gb
zr cebcre gung vg fubhyq or rssrpgrq jvgubhg qrynl. Guvf unf orra qbar; naq
na bppnfvba jnf gurerol cerfragrq sbe vafcrpgvat gur pbaqvgvba bs gur
Vafgvghgvba naq nccerpvngvat vgf fhpprffshy cebterff guhf sne naq vgf uvtu
cebzvfr bs terng naq trareny hfrshyarff.

V unir bzvggrq gb nfx lbhe snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba sbe gur rfgvzngrf bs
jbexf bs n ybpny punenpgre va gjragl-frira bs gur guvegl-bar Fgngrf,
nzbhagvat gb $1,754,500, orpnhfr, vaqrcraqragyl bs gur tebhaqf juvpu unir
fb bsgra orra hetrq ntnvafg gur nccyvpngvba bs gur Srqreny erirahr sbe
jbexf bs guvf punenpgre, vardhnyvgl, jvgu pbafrdhrag vawhfgvpr, vf vaurerag
va gur angher bs gur cebcbfvgvba, naq orpnhfr gur cyna unf cebirq ragveryl
vanqrdhngr gb gur nppbzcyvfuzrag bs gur bowrpgf fbhtug.

Gur fhowrpg bs vagreany vzcebirzragf, pynvzvat nyvxr gur vagrerfg naq tbbq
jvyy bs nyy, unf, arireguryrff, orra gur onfvf bs zhpu cbyvgvpny qvfphffvba
naq unf fgbbq nf n qrrc-tenira yvar bs qvivfvba orgjrra fgngrfzra bs
rzvarag novyvgl naq cngevbgvfz. Gur ehyr bs fgevpg pbafgehpgvba bs nyy
cbjref qryrtngrq ol gur Fgngrf gb gur Trareny Tbireazrag unf neenlrq vgfrys
sebz gvzr gb gvzr ntnvafg gur encvq cebterff bs rkcraqvgherf sebz gur
Angvbany Gernfhel ba jbexf bs n ybpny punenpgre jvguva gur Fgngrf.
Zrzbenoyr nf na rcbpu va gur uvfgbel bs guvf fhowrpg vf gur zrffntr bs
Cerfvqrag Wnpxfba bs gur 27gu bs Znl, 1830, juvpu zrg gur flfgrz bs
vagreany vzcebirzragf va vgf pbzcnengvir vasnapl; ohg fb encvq unq orra vgf
tebjgu gung gur cebwrpgrq nccebcevngvbaf va gung lrne sbe jbexf bs guvf
punenpgre unq evfra gb gur nynezvat nzbhag bs zber guna $100,000,000

Va gung zrffntr gur Cerfvqrag nqzvggrq gur qvssvphygl bs oevatvat onpx gur
bcrengvbaf bs gur Tbireazrag gb gur pbafgehpgvba bs gur Pbafgvghgvba frg hc
va 1798, naq znexrq vg nf na nqzbavgbel cebbs bs gur arprffvgl bs thneqvat
gung vafgehzrag jvgu fyrrcyrff ivtvynapr ntnvafg gur nhgubevgl bs
cerprqragf juvpu unq abg gur fnapgvba bs vgf zbfg cynvayl qrsvarq cbjref.

Bhe Tbireazrag rkvfgf haqre n jevggra pbzcnpg orgjrra fbirervta Fgngrf,
havgvat sbe fcrpvsvp bowrpgf naq jvgu fcrpvsvp tenagf gb gurve trareny
ntrag. Vs, gura, va gur cebterff bs vgf nqzvavfgengvba gurer unir orra
qrcnegherf sebz gur grezf naq vagrag bs gur pbzcnpg, vg vf naq jvyy rire or
cebcre gb ersre onpx gb gur svkrq fgnaqneq juvpu bhe snguref yrsg hf naq gb
znxr n fgrea rssbeg gb pbasbez bhe npgvba gb vg. Vg jbhyq frrz gung gur
snpg bs n cevapvcyr univat orra erfvfgrq sebz gur svefg ol znal bs gur
jvfrfg naq zbfg cngevbgvp zra bs gur Erchoyvp, naq n cbyvpl univat cebibxrq
pbafgnag fgevsr jvgubhg neevivat ng n pbapyhfvba juvpu pna or ertneqrq nf
fngvfsnpgbel gb vgf zbfg rnearfg nqibpngrf, fubhyq fhttrfg gur vadhvel
jurgure gurer znl abg or n cyna yvxryl gb or pebjarq ol unccvre erfhygf.
Jvgubhg creprvivat nal fbhaq qvfgvapgvba be vagraqvat gb nffreg nal
cevapvcyr nf bccbfrq gb vzcebirzragf arrqrq sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs vagreany
pbzzrepr juvpu qbrf abg rdhnyyl nccyl gb vzcebirzragf hcba gur frnobneq sbe
gur cebgrpgvba bs sbervta pbzzrepr, V fhozvg gb lbh jurgure vg znl abg or
fnsryl nagvpvcngrq gung vs gur cbyvpl jrer bapr frggyrq ntnvafg
nccebcevngvbaf ol gur Trareny Tbireazrag sbe ybpny vzcebirzragf sbe gur
orarsvg bs pbzzrepr, ybpnyvgvrf erdhvevat rkcraqvgherf jbhyq abg, ol zbqrf
naq zrnaf pyrneyl yrtvgvzngr naq cebcre, envfr gur shaq arprffnel sbe fhpu
pbafgehpgvbaf nf gur fnsrgl be bgure vagrerfgf bs gurve pbzzrepr zvtug
erdhver.

Vs gung pna or ertneqrq nf n flfgrz juvpu va gur rkcrevrapr bs zrer guna
guvegl lrnef unf ng ab gvzr fb pbzznaqrq gur choyvp whqtzrag nf gb tvir vg
gur punenpgre bs n frggyrq cbyvpl; juvpu, gubhtu vg unf cebqhprq fbzr jbexf
bs pbaprqrq vzcbegnapr, unf orra nggraqrq jvgu na rkcraqvgher dhvgr
qvfcebcbegvbangr gb gurve inyhr naq unf erfhygrq va fdhnaqrevat ynetr fhzf
hcba bowrpgf juvpu unir nafjrerq ab inyhnoyr checbfr, gur vagrerfgf bs nyy
gur Fgngrf erdhver vg gb or nonaqbarq hayrff ubcrf znl or vaqhytrq sbe gur
shgher juvpu svaq ab jneenag va gur cnfg.

Jvgu na nakvbhf qrfver sbe gur pbzcyrgvba bs gur jbexf juvpu ner ertneqrq
ol nyy tbbq pvgvmraf jvgu fvaprer vagrerfg, V unir qrrzrq vg zl qhgl gb nfx
ng lbhe unaqf n qryvorengr erpbafvqrengvba bs gur dhrfgvba, jvgu n ubcr
gung, navzngrq ol n qrfver gb cebzbgr gur creznarag naq fhofgnagvny
vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel, lbhe jvfqbz znl cebir rdhny gb gur gnfx bs
qrivfvat naq znghevat n cyna juvpu, nccyvrq gb guvf fhowrpg, znl cebzvfr
fbzrguvat orggre guna pbafgnag fgevsr, gur fhfcrafvba bs gur cbjref bs
ybpny ragrecevfr, gur rkpvgvat bs inva ubcrf, naq gur qvfnccbvagzrag bs
purevfurq rkcrpgngvbaf.

Va rkcraqvat gur nccebcevngvbaf znqr ol gur ynfg Pbaterff frireny pnfrf
unir nevfra va eryngvba gb jbexf sbe gur vzcebirzrag bs uneobef juvpu
vaibyir dhrfgvbaf nf gb gur evtug bs fbvy naq whevfqvpgvba, naq unir
guerngrarq pbasyvpg orgjrra gur nhgubevgl bs gur Fgngr naq Trareny
Tbireazragf. Gur evtug gb pbafgehpg n oernxjngre, wrggl, be qnz jbhyq frrz
arprffnevyl gb pneel jvgu vg gur cbjre gb cebgrpg naq cerfreir fhpu
pbafgehpgvbaf. Guvf pna bayl or rssrpghnyyl qbar ol univat whevfqvpgvba
bire gur fbvy. Ohg ab pynhfr bs gur Pbafgvghgvba vf sbhaq ba juvpu gb erfg
gur pynvz bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb rkrepvfr whevfqvpgvba bire gur fbvy bs n
Fgngr rkprcg gung pbasreerq ol gur rvtugu frpgvba bs gur svefg negvpyr bs
gur Pbafgvghgvba. Vg vf, gura, fhozvggrq jurgure, va nyy pnfrf jurer
pbafgehpgvbaf ner gb or rerpgrq ol gur Trareny Tbireazrag, gur evtug bs
fbvy fubhyq abg svefg or bognvarq naq yrtvfyngvir cebivfvba or znqr gb
pbire nyy fhpu pnfrf. Sbe gur cebterff znqr va gur pbafgehpgvba bs ebnqf
jvguva gur Greevgbevrf, nf cebivqrq sbe va gur nccebcevngvbaf bs gur ynfg
Pbaterff, V ersre lbh gb gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne.

Gurer vf bar fhowrpg bs n qbzrfgvp angher juvpu, sebz vgf vagevafvp
vzcbegnapr naq gur znal vagrerfgvat dhrfgvbaf bs shgher cbyvpl juvpu vg
vaibyirf, pna abg snvy gb erprvir lbhe rneyl nggragvba. V nyyhqr gb gur
zrnaf bs pbzzhavpngvba ol juvpu qvssrerag cnegf bs gur jvqr rkcnafr bs bhe
pbhagel ner gb or cynprq va pybfre pbaarpgvba sbe checbfrf obgu bs qrsrafr
naq pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr, naq zber rfcrpvnyyl fhpu nf nccregnva gb gur
pbzzhavpngvba bs gubfr terng qvivfvbaf bs gur Havba juvpu yvr ba gur
bccbfvgr fvqrf bs gur Ebpxl Zbhagnvaf. Gung gur Tbireazrag unf abg orra
hazvaqshy bs guvf urergbsber vf nccnerag sebz gur nvq vg unf nssbeqrq
guebhtu nccebcevngvbaf sbe znvy snpvyvgvrf naq bgure checbfrf. Ohg gur
trareny fhowrpg jvyy abj cerfrag vgfrys haqre nfcrpgf zber vzcbfvat naq
zber cheryl angvbany ol ernfba bs gur fheirlf beqrerq ol Pbaterff, naq abj
va gur cebprff bs pbzcyrgvba, sbe pbzzhavpngvba ol envyjnl npebff gur
pbagvarag, naq jubyyl jvguva gur yvzvgf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Gur cbjre gb qrpyner jne, gb envfr naq fhccbeg nezvrf, gb cebivqr naq
znvagnva n anil, naq gb pnyy sbegu gur zvyvgvn gb rkrphgr gur ynjf,
fhccerff vafheerpgvbaf, naq ercry vainfvbaf jnf pbasreerq hcba Pbaterff nf
zrnaf gb cebivqr sbe gur pbzzba qrsrafr naq gb cebgrpg n greevgbel naq n
cbchyngvba abj jvqrfcernq naq infgyl zhygvcyvrq. Nf vapvqragny gb naq
vaqvfcrafnoyr sbe gur rkrepvfr bs guvf cbjre, vg zhfg fbzrgvzrf or
arprffnel gb pbafgehpg zvyvgnel ebnqf naq cebgrpg uneobef bs ershtr. Gb
nccebcevngvbaf ol Pbaterff sbe fhpu bowrpgf ab fbhaq bowrpgvba pna or
envfrq. Unccvyl sbe bhe pbhagel, vgf crnprshy cbyvpl naq encvqyl vapernfvat
cbchyngvba vzcbfr hcba hf ab hetrag arprffvgl sbe cercnengvba, naq yrnir
ohg srj genpxyrff qrfregf orgjrra nffnvynoyr cbvagf naq n cngevbgvp crbcyr
rire ernql naq trarenyyl noyr gb cebgrpg gurz. Gurfr arprffnel yvaxf gur
ragrecevfr naq raretl bs bhe crbcyr ner fgrnqvyl naq obyqyl fgehttyvat gb
fhccyl. Nyy rkcrevrapr nssvezf gung jurerire cevingr ragrecevfr jvyy ninvy
vg vf zbfg jvfr sbe gur Trareny Tbireazrag gb yrnir gb gung naq vaqvivqhny
jngpushyarff gur ybpngvba naq rkrphgvba bs nyy zrnaf bs pbzzhavpngvba.

Gur fheirlf orsber nyyhqrq gb jrer qrfvtarq gb nfpregnva gur zbfg
cenpgvpnoyr naq rpbabzvpny ebhgr sbe n envyebnq sebz gur evire Zvffvffvccv
gb gur Cnpvsvp Bprna. Cnegvrf ner abj va gur svryq znxvat rkcybengvbaf,
jurer cerivbhf rknzvangvbaf unq abg fhccyvrq fhssvpvrag qngn naq jurer
gurer jnf gur orfg ernfba gb ubcr gur bowrpg fbhtug zvtug or sbhaq. Gur
zrnaf naq gvzr orvat obgu yvzvgrq, vg vf abg gb or rkcrpgrq gung nyy gur
npphengr xabjyrqtr qrfverq jvyy or bognvarq, ohg vg vf ubcrq gung zhpu naq
vzcbegnag vasbezngvba jvyy or nqqrq gb gur fgbpx cerivbhfyl cbffrffrq, naq
gung cnegvny, vs abg shyy, ercbegf bs gur fheirlf beqrerq jvyy or erprvirq
va gvzr sbe genafzvffvba gb gur gjb Ubhfrf bs Pbaterff ba be orsber gur
svefg Zbaqnl va Sroehnel arkg, nf erdhverq ol gur npg bs nccebcevngvba. Gur
zntavghqr bs gur ragrecevfr pbagrzcyngrq unf nebhfrq naq jvyy qbhogyrff
pbagvahr gb rkpvgr n irel trareny vagrerfg guebhtubhg gur pbhagel. Va vgf
cbyvgvpny, vgf pbzzrepvny, naq vgf zvyvgnel ornevatf vg unf inevrq, terng,
naq vapernfvat pynvzf gb pbafvqrengvba. Gur urnil rkcrafr, gur terng qrynl,
naq, ng gvzrf, sngnyvgl nggraqvat geniry ol rvgure bs gur Vfguzhf ebhgrf
unir qrzbafgengrq gur nqinagntr juvpu jbhyq erfhyg sebz vagregreevgbevny
pbzzhavpngvba ol fhpu fnsr naq encvq zrnaf nf n envyebnq jbhyq fhccyl.

Gurfr qvssvphygvrf, juvpu unir orra rapbhagrerq va n crevbq bs crnpr, jbhyq
or zntavsvrq naq fgvyy shegure vapernfrq va gvzr bs jne. Ohg juvyfg gur
rzoneenffzragf nyernql rapbhagrerq naq bguref haqre arj pbagvatrapvrf gb or
nagvpvcngrq znl freir fgevxvatyl gb rkuvovg gur vzcbegnapr bs fhpu n jbex,
arvgure gurfr abe nyy pbafvqrengvbaf pbzovarq pna unir na nccerpvnoyr inyhr
jura jrvturq ntnvafg gur boyvtngvba fgevpgyl gb nqurer gb gur Pbafgvghgvba
naq snvgushyyl gb rkrphgr gur cbjref vg pbasref.

Jvguva guvf yvzvg naq gb gur rkgrag bs gur vagrerfg bs gur Tbireazrag
vaibyirq vg jbhyq frrz obgu rkcrqvrag naq cebcre vs na rpbabzvpny naq
cenpgvpnoyr ebhgr funyy or sbhaq gb nvq ol nyy pbafgvghgvbany zrnaf va gur
pbafgehpgvba bs n ebnq juvpu jvyy havgr ol fcrrql genafvg gur cbchyngvbaf
bs gur Cnpvsvp naq Ngynagvp Fgngrf. Gb thneq ntnvafg zvfpbaprcgvba, vg
fubhyq or erznexrq gung nygubhtu gur cbjre gb pbafgehpg be nvq va gur
pbafgehpgvba bs n ebnq jvguva gur yvzvgf bs n Greevgbel vf abg rzoneenffrq
ol gung dhrfgvba bs whevfqvpgvba juvpu jbhyq nevfr jvguva gur yvzvgf bs n
Fgngr, vg vf, arireguryrff, uryq gb or bs qbhogshy cbjre naq zber guna
qbhogshy cebcevrgl, rira jvguva gur yvzvgf bs n Greevgbel, sbe gur Trareny
Tbireazrag gb haqregnxr gb nqzvavfgre gur nssnvef bs n envyebnq, n pnany,
be bgure fvzvyne pbafgehpgvba, naq gurersber gung vgf pbaarpgvba jvgu n
jbex bs guvf punenpgre fubhyq or vapvqragny engure guna cevznel. V jvyy
bayl nqq ng cerfrag gung, shyyl nccerpvngvat gur zntavghqr bs gur fhowrpg
naq fbyvpvgbhf gung gur Ngynagvp naq Cnpvsvp fuberf bs gur Erchoyvp znl or
obhaq gbtrgure ol vafrcnenoyr gvrf bs pbzzba vagrerfg, nf jryy nf bs pbzzba
srnygl naq nggnpuzrag gb gur Havba, V funyy or qvfcbfrq, fb sne nf zl bja
npgvba vf pbaprearq, gb sbyybj gur yvtugf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba nf rkcbhaqrq
naq vyyhfgengrq ol gubfr jubfr bcvavbaf naq rkcbfvgvbaf pbafgvghgr gur
fgnaqneq bs zl cbyvgvpny snvgu va ertneq gb gur cbjref bs gur Srqreny
Tbireazrag. Vg vf, V gehfg, abg arprffnel gb fnl gung ab tenaqrhe bs
ragrecevfr naq ab cerfrag hetrag vaqhprzrag cebzvfvat cbchyne snibe jvyy
yrnq zr gb qvfertneq gubfr yvtugf be gb qrcneg sebz gung cngu juvpu
rkcrevrapr unf cebirq gb or fnsr, naq juvpu vf abj enqvnag jvgu gur tybj bs
cebfcrevgl naq yrtvgvzngr pbafgvghgvbany cebterff. Jr pna nssbeq gb jnvg,
ohg jr pna abg nssbeq gb bireybbx gur nex bs bhe frphevgl.

Vg vf ab cneg bs zl checbfr gb tvir cebzvarapr gb nal fhowrpg juvpu znl
cebcreyl or ertneqrq nf frg ng erfg ol gur qryvorengr whqtzrag bs gur
crbcyr. Ohg juvyr gur cerfrag vf oevtug jvgu cebzvfr naq gur shgher shyy bs
qrznaq naq vaqhprzrag sbe gur rkrepvfr bs npgvir vagryyvtrapr, gur cnfg pna
arire or jvgubhg hfrshy yrffbaf bs nqzbavgvba naq vafgehpgvba. Vs vgf
qnatref freir abg nf ornpbaf, gurl jvyy rivqragyl snvy gb shysvyy gur
bowrpg bs n jvfr qrfvta. Jura gur tenir funyy unir pybfrq bire nyy jub ner
abj raqrnibevat gb zrrg gur boyvtngvbaf bs qhgl, gur lrne 1850 jvyy or
erpheerq gb nf n crevbq svyyrq jvgu nakvbhf nccerurafvba. N fhpprffshy jne
unq whfg grezvangrq. Crnpr oebhtug jvgu vg n infg nhtzragngvba bs
greevgbel. Qvfgheovat dhrfgvbaf nebfr ornevat hcba gur qbzrfgvp
vafgvghgvbaf bs bar cbegvba bs gur Pbasrqrenpl naq vaibyivat gur
pbafgvghgvbany evtugf bs gur Fgngrf. Ohg abgjvgufgnaqvat qvssreraprf bs
bcvavba naq fragvzrag juvpu gura rkvfgrq va eryngvba gb qrgnvyf naq
fcrpvsvp cebivfvbaf, gur npdhvrfprapr bs qvfgvathvfurq pvgvmraf, jubfr
qribgvba gb gur Havba pna arire or qbhogrq, unf tvira erarjrq ivtbe gb bhe
vafgvghgvbaf naq erfgberq n frafr bs ercbfr naq frphevgl gb gur choyvp zvaq
guebhtubhg gur Pbasrqrenpl. Gung guvf ercbfr vf gb fhssre ab fubpx qhevat
zl bssvpvny grez, vs V unir cbjre gb nireg vg, gubfr jub cynprq zr urer znl
or nffherq. Gur jvfqbz bs zra jub xarj jung vaqrcraqrapr pbfg, jub unq chg
nyy ng fgnxr hcba gur vffhr bs gur Eribyhgvbanel fgehttyr, qvfcbfrq bs gur
fhowrpg gb juvpu V ersre va gur bayl jnl pbafvfgrag jvgu gur Havba bs gurfr
Fgngrf naq jvgu gur znepu bs cbjre naq cebfcrevgl juvpu unf znqr hf jung jr
ner. Vg vf n fvtavsvpnag snpg gung sebz gur nqbcgvba bs gur Pbafgvghgvba
hagvy gur bssvpref naq fbyqvref bs gur Eribyhgvba unq cnffrq gb gurve
tenirf, be, guebhtu gur vasvezvgvrf bs ntr naq jbhaqf, unq prnfrq gb
cnegvpvcngr npgviryl va choyvp nssnvef, gurer jnf abg zreryl n dhvrg
npdhvrfprapr va, ohg n cebzcg ivaqvpngvba bs, gur pbafgvghgvbany evtugf bs
gur Fgngrf. Gur erfreirq cbjref jrer fpehchybhfyl erfcrpgrq. Ab fgngrfzna
chg sbegu gur aneebj ivrjf bs pnfhvfgf gb whfgvsl vagresrerapr naq
ntvgngvba, ohg gur fcvevg bs gur pbzcnpg jnf ertneqrq nf fnperq va gur rlr
bs ubabe naq vaqvfcrafnoyr sbe gur terng rkcrevzrag bs pvivy yvoregl,
juvpu, raivebarq ol vaurerag qvssvphygvrf, jnf lrg obear sbejneq va
nccnerag jrnxarff ol n cbjre fhcrevbe gb nyy bofgnpyrf. Gurer vf ab
pbaqrzangvba juvpu gur ibvpr bs serrqbz jvyy abg cebabhapr hcba hf fubhyq
jr cebir snvguyrff gb guvf terng gehfg. Juvyr zra vaunovgvat qvssrerag
cnegf bs guvf infg pbagvarag pna ab zber or rkcrpgrq gb ubyq gur fnzr
bcvavbaf be ragregnva gur fnzr fragvzragf guna rirel inevrgl bs pyvzngr be
fbvy pna or rkcrpgrq gb sheavfu gur fnzr ntevphygheny cebqhpgf, gurl pna
havgr va n pbzzba bowrpg naq fhfgnva pbzzba cevapvcyrf rffragvny gb gur
znvagranapr bs gung bowrpg. Gur tnyynag zra bs gur Fbhgu naq gur Abegu
pbhyq fgnaq gbtrgure qhevat gur fgehttyr bs gur Eribyhgvba; gurl pbhyq
fgnaq gbtrgure va gur zber gelvat crevbq juvpu fhpprrqrq gur pynatbe bs
nezf. Nf gurve havgrq inybe jnf nqrdhngr gb nyy gur gevnyf bs gur pnzc naq
qnatref bs gur svryq, fb gurve havgrq jvfqbz cebirq rdhny gb gur terngre
gnfx bs sbhaqvat hcba n qrrc naq oebnq onfvf vafgvghgvbaf juvpu vg unf orra
bhe cevivyrtr gb rawbl naq jvyy rire or bhe zbfg fnperq qhgl gb fhfgnva. Vg
vf ohg gur srroyr rkcerffvba bs n snvgu fgebat naq havirefny gb fnl gung
gurve fbaf, jubfr oybbq zvatyrq fb bsgra hcba gur fnzr svryq qhevat gur Jne
bs 1812 naq jub unir zber erpragyl obear va gevhzcu gur synt bs gur pbhagel
hcba n sbervta fbvy, jvyy arire crezvg nyvrangvba bs srryvat gb jrnxra gur
cbjre bs gurve havgrq rssbegf abe vagreany qvffrafvbaf gb cnenylmr gur
terng nez bs serrqbz, hcyvsgrq sbe gur ivaqvpngvba bs frys-tbireazrag.

V unir guhf oevrsyl cerfragrq fhpu fhttrfgvbaf nf frrz gb zr rfcrpvnyyl
jbegul bs lbhe pbafvqrengvba. Va cebivqvat sbe gur cerfrag lbh pna uneqyl
snvy gb ninvy lbhefryirf bs gur yvtug juvpu gur rkcrevrapr bs gur cnfg
pnfgf hcba gur shgher.

Gur tebjgu bs bhe cbchyngvba unf abj oebhtug hf, va gur qrfgvarq pnerre bs
bhe angvbany uvfgbel, gb n cbvag ng juvpu vg jryy orubbirf hf gb rkcnaq bhe
ivfvba bire gur infg cebfcrpgvir.

Gur fhpprffvir qrpraavny ergheaf bs gur prafhf fvapr gur nqbcgvba bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba unir erirnyrq n ynj bs fgrnql, cebterffvir qrirybczrag, juvpu
znl or fgngrq va trareny grezf nf n qhcyvpngvba rirel dhnegre praghel.
Pneevrq sbejneq sebz gur cbvag nyernql ernpurq sbe bayl n fubeg crevbq bs
gvzr, nf nccyvpnoyr gb gur rkvfgrapr bs n angvba, guvf ynj bs cebterff, vs
hapurpxrq, jvyy oevat hf gb nyzbfg vaperqvoyr erfhygf. N ynetr nyybjnapr
sbe n qvzvavfurq cebcbegvbany rssrpg bs rzvtengvba jbhyq abg irel
zngrevnyyl erqhpr gur rfgvzngr, juvyr gur vapernfrq nirentr qhengvba bs
uhzna yvsr xabja gb unir nyernql erfhygrq sebz gur fpvragvsvp naq ultvravp
vzcebirzragf bs gur cnfg svsgl lrnef jvyy graq gb xrrc hc guebhtu gur arkg
svsgl, be creuncf uhaqerq, gur fnzr engvb bs tebjgu juvpu unf orra guhf
erirnyrq va bhe cnfg cebterff; naq gb gur vasyhrapr bs gurfr pnhfrf znl or
nqqrq gur vasyhk bs ynobevat znffrf sebz rnfgrea Nfvn gb gur Cnpvsvp fvqr
bs bhe cbffrffvbaf, gbtrgure jvgu gur cebonoyr npprffvba bs gur cbchyngvbaf
nyernql rkvfgvat va bgure cnegf bs bhe urzvfcurer, juvpu jvguva gur crevbq
va dhrfgvba jvyy srry jvgu lrneyl vapernfvat sbepr gur angheny nggenpgvba
bs fb infg, cbjreshy, naq cebfcrebhf n pbasrqrengvba bs frys-tbireavat
erchoyvpf naq jvyy frrx gur cevivyrtr bs orvat nqzvggrq jvguva vgf fnsr naq
unccl obfbz, genafsreevat jvgu gurzfryirf, ol n crnprshy naq urnygul
cebprff bs vapbecbengvba, fcnpvbhf ertvbaf bs ivetva naq rkhorenag fbvy,
juvpu ner qrfgvarq gb fjnez jvgu gur snfg tebjvat naq snfg-fcernqvat
zvyyvbaf bs bhe enpr.

Gurfr pbafvqrengvbaf frrz shyyl gb whfgvsl gur cerfhzcgvba gung gur ynj bs
cbchyngvba nobir fgngrq jvyy pbagvahr gb npg jvgu haqvzvavfurq rssrpg
guebhtu ng yrnfg gur arkg unys praghel, naq gung gubhfnaqf bs crefbaf jub
unir nyernql neevirq ng znghevgl naq ner abj rkrepvfvat gur evtugf bs
serrzra jvyy pybfr gurve rlrf ba gur fcrpgnpyr bs zber guna 100,000,000 bs
cbchyngvba rzoenprq jvguva gur znwrfgvp cebcbegvbaf bs gur Nzrevpna Havba.
Vg vf abg zreryl nf na vagrerfgvat gbcvp bs fcrphyngvba gung V cerfrag
gurfr ivrjf sbe lbhe pbafvqrengvba. Gurl unir vzcbegnag cenpgvpny ornevatf
hcba nyy gur cbyvgvpny qhgvrf jr ner pnyyrq hcba gb cresbez. Urergbsber bhe
flfgrz bs tbireazrag unf jbexrq ba jung znl or grezrq n zvavngher fpnyr va
pbzcnevfba jvgu gur qrirybczrag juvpu vg zhfg guhf nffhzr jvguva n shgher
fb arne ng unaq nf fpnepryl gb or orlbaq gur cerfrag bs gur rkvfgvat
trarengvba.

Vg vf rivqrag gung n pbasrqrengvba fb infg naq fb inevrq, obgu va ahzoref
naq va greevgbevny rkgrag, va unovgf naq va vagrerfgf, pbhyq bayl or xrcg
va angvbany pburfvba ol gur fgevpgrfg svqryvgl gb gur cevapvcyrf bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba nf haqrefgbbq ol gubfr jub unir nqurerq gb gur zbfg erfgevpgrq
pbafgehpgvba bs gur cbjref tenagrq ol gur crbcyr naq gur Fgngrf.
Vagrecergrq naq nccyvrq nppbeqvat gb gubfr cevapvcyrf, gur terng pbzcnpg
nqncgf vgfrys jvgu urnygul rnfr naq serrqbz gb na hayvzvgrq rkgrafvba bs
gung oravta flfgrz bs srqrengvir frys-tbireazrag bs juvpu vg vf bhe
tybevbhf naq, V gehfg, vzzbegny punegre. Yrg hf, gura, jvgu erqbhoyrq
ivtvynapr, or ba bhe thneq ntnvafg lvryqvat gb gur grzcgngvba bs gur
rkrepvfr bs qbhogshy cbjref, rira haqre gur cerffher bs gur zbgvirf bs
pbaprqrq grzcbenel nqinagntr naq nccnerag grzcbenel rkcrqvrapl. Gur zvavzhz
bs Srqreny tbireazrag pbzcngvoyr jvgu gur znvagranapr bs angvbany havgl naq
rssvpvrag npgvba va bhe eryngvbaf jvgu gur erfg bs gur jbeyq fubhyq nssbeq
gur ehyr naq zrnfher bs pbafgehpgvba bs bhe cbjref haqre gur trareny
pynhfrf bs gur Pbafgvghgvba. N fcvevg bs fgevpg qrsrerapr gb gur fbirervta
evtugf naq qvtavgl bs rirel Fgngr, engure guna n qvfcbfvgvba gb fhobeqvangr
gur Fgngrf vagb n cebivapvny eryngvba gb gur prageny nhgubevgl, fubhyq
punenpgrevmr nyy bhe rkrepvfr bs gur erfcrpgvir cbjref grzcbenevyl irfgrq
va hf nf n fnperq gehfg sebz gur trarebhf pbasvqrapr bs bhe pbafgvghragf.

Va yvxr znaare, nf n znavsrfgyl vaqvfcrafnoyr pbaqvgvba bs gur crecrghngvba
bs gur Havba naq bs gur ernyvmngvba bs gung zntavsvprag angvbany shgher
nqiregrq gb, qbrf gur qhgl orpbzr lrneyl fgebatre naq pyrnere hcba hf, nf
pvgvmraf bs gur frireny Fgngrf, gb phygvingr n sengreany naq nssrpgvbangr
fcvevg, ynathntr, naq pbaqhpg va ertneq gb bgure Fgngrf naq va eryngvba gb
gur inevrq vagrerfgf, vafgvghgvbaf, naq unovgf bs fragvzrag naq bcvavba
juvpu znl erfcrpgviryl punenpgrevmr gurz. Zhghny sbeornenapr, erfcrpg, naq
abavagresrerapr va bhe crefbany npgvba nf pvgvmraf naq na raynetrq rkrepvfr
bs gur zbfg yvoreny cevapvcyrf bs pbzvgl va gur choyvp qrnyvatf bs Fgngr
jvgu Fgngr, jurgure va yrtvfyngvba be va gur rkrphgvba bs ynjf, ner gur
zrnaf gb crecrghngr gung pbasvqrapr naq sengreavgl gur qrpnl bs juvpu n
zrer cbyvgvpny havba, ba fb infg n fpnyr, pbhyq abg ybat fheivir.

Va fgvyy nabgure cbvag bs ivrj vf na vzcbegnag cenpgvpny qhgl fhttrfgrq ol
guvf pbafvqrengvba bs gur zntavghqr bs qvzrafvbaf gb juvpu bhe cbyvgvpny
flfgrz, jvgu vgf pbeerfcbaqvat znpuvarel bs tbireazrag, vf fb encvqyl
rkcnaqvat. Jvgu vapernfrq ivtvynapr qbrf vg erdhver hf gb phygvingr gur
pneqvany iveghrf bs choyvp sehtnyvgl naq bssvpvny vagrtevgl naq chevgl.
Choyvp nssnvef bhtug gb or fb pbaqhpgrq gung n frggyrq pbaivpgvba funyy
creinqr gur ragver Havba gung abguvat fubeg bs gur uvturfg gbar naq
fgnaqneq bs choyvp zbenyvgl znexf rirel cneg bs gur nqzvavfgengvba naq
yrtvfyngvba bs gur Trareny Tbireazrag. Guhf jvyy gur srqreny flfgrz,
jungrire rkcnafvba gvzr naq cebterff znl tvir vg, pbagvahr zber naq zber
qrrcyl ebbgrq va gur ybir naq pbasvqrapr bs gur crbcyr.

Gung jvfr rpbabzl juvpu vf nf sne erzbirq sebz cnefvzbal nf sebz pbeehcg
naq pbeehcgvat rkgenintnapr; gung fvatyr ertneq sbe gur choyvp tbbq juvpu
jvyy sebja hcba nyy nggrzcgf gb nccebnpu gur Gernfhel jvgu vafvqvbhf
cebwrpgf bs cevingr vagrerfg pybnxrq haqre choyvp cergrkgf; gung fbhaq
svfpny nqzvavfgengvba juvpu, va gur yrtvfyngvir qrcnegzrag, thneqf ntnvafg
gur qnatrebhf grzcgngvbaf vapvqrag gb biresybjvat erirahr, naq, va gur
rkrphgvir, znvagnvaf na hafyrrcvat jngpushyarff ntnvafg gur graqrapl bs nyy
angvbany rkcraqvgher gb rkgenintnapr, juvyr gurl ner nqzvggrq ryrzragnel
cbyvgvpny qhgvrf, znl, V gehfg, or qrrzrq nf cebcreyl nqiregrq gb naq hetrq
va ivrj bs gur zber vzcerffvir frafr bs gung arprffvgl juvpu vf qverpgyl
fhttrfgrq ol gur pbafvqrengvbaf abj cerfragrq.

Fvapr gur nqwbheazrag bs Pbaterff gur Ivpr-Cerfvqrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
unf cnffrq sebz gur fprarf bs rnegu, jvgubhg univat ragrerq hcba gur qhgvrf
bs gur fgngvba gb juvpu ur unq orra pnyyrq ol gur ibvpr bs uvf pbhagelzra.
Univat bpphcvrq nyzbfg pbagvahbhfyl sbe zber guna guvegl lrnef n frng va
bar be gur bgure bs gur gjb Ubhfrf bs Pbaterff, naq univat ol uvf fvathyne
chevgl naq jvfqbz frpherq haobhaqrq pbasvqrapr naq havirefny erfcrpg, uvf
snvyvat urnygu jnf jngpurq ol gur angvba jvgu cnvashy fbyvpvghqr. Uvf ybff
gb gur pbhagel, haqre nyy gur pvephzfgnaprf, unf orra whfgyl ertneqrq nf
veercnenoyr.

Va pbzcyvnapr jvgu gur npg bs Pbaterff bs Znepu 2, 1853, gur bngu bs bssvpr
jnf nqzvavfgrerq gb uvz ba gur 24gu bs gung zbagu ng Nevnqar rfgngr, arne
Zngnamnf, va gur vfynaq bs Phon; ohg uvf fgeratgu tenqhnyyl qrpyvarq, naq
jnf uneqyl fhssvpvrag gb ranoyr uvz gb erghea gb uvf ubzr va Nynonzn,
jurer, ba gur 18gu qnl bs Ncevy, va gur zbfg pnyz naq crnprshy jnl, uvf
ybat naq rzvaragyl hfrshy pnerre jnf grezvangrq. Ragregnvavat hayvzvgrq
pbasvqrapr va lbhe vagryyvtrag naq cngevbgvp qribgvba gb gur choyvp
vagrerfg, naq orvat pbafpvbhf bs ab zbgvirf ba zl cneg juvpu ner abg
vafrcnenoyr sebz gur ubabe naq nqinaprzrag bs zl pbhagel, V ubcr vg znl or
zl cevivyrtr gb qrfreir naq frpher abg bayl lbhe pbeqvny pbbcrengvba va
terng choyvp zrnfherf, ohg nyfb gubfr eryngvbaf bs zhghny pbasvqrapr naq
ertneq juvpu vg vf nyjnlf fb qrfvenoyr gb phygvingr orgjrra zrzoref bs
pbbeqvangr oenapurf bs gur Tbireazrag.