Azggjr-Xdoduzin ja ocz Nzivoz viy ja ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Do dn oj hz v njpmxz ja pivaazxozy nvodnavxodji oj hzzo ocz mzkmznziovodqzn
ja ocz Novozn viy ocz kzjkgz di Xjibmznn vnnzhwgzy, vn do rdgg wz oj
mzxzdqz ocz vdy ja oczdm xjhwdizy rdnyjh di ocz vyhdidnomvodji ja kpwgdx
vaavdmn. Di kzmajmhdib ajm ocz admno odhz ocz ypot dhkjnzy ji hz wt ocz
Xjinodopodji ja bdqdib oj tjp diajmhvodji ja ocz novoz ja ocz Pidji viy
mzxjhhziydib oj tjpm xjindyzmvodji npxc hzvnpmzn vn di ht epybhzio vmz
izxznnvmt viy zskzydzio, D vh cvkkt ocvo D xvi xjibmvopgvoz tjp ji ocz
xjiodipzy kmjnkzmdot ja jpm xjpiomt. Piyzm ocz wgznndibn ja Ydqdiz
Kmjqdyzixz viy ocz wzidbi diagpzixz ja jpm amzz dinodopodjin, do noviyn
wzajmz ocz rjmgy v nkzxovxgz ja ivodjivg cvkkdiznn.

Rdoc jpm pizsvhkgzy vyqvixzhzio di vgg ocz zgzhzion ja ivodjivg bmzvoiznn,
ocz vaazxodji ja ocz kzjkgz dn xjiadmhzy ajm ocz Pidji ja ocz Novozn viy
ajm ocz yjxomdizn ja kjkpgvm gdwzmot rcdxc gdz vo ocz ajpiyvodji ja jpm
Bjqzmihzio.

Do wzxjhzn pn di cphdgdot oj hvfz jpm yzqjpo vxfijrgzybhzion oj ocz Npkmzhz
Mpgzm ja ocz Pidqzmnz ajm ocz diznodhvwgz xdqdg viy mzgdbdjpn wgznndibn
rdoc rcdxc rz vmz avqjmzy.

Di xvggdib ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ajmzdbi kjrzmn,
D vh bmvodadzy oj wz vwgz oj novoz ocvo ocjpbc rdoc njhz ja oczh oczmz cvqz
zsdnozy ndixz tjpm gvno nznndji nzmdjpn xvpnzn ja dmmdovodji viy
hdnpiyzmnoviydib, tzo ij vxopvg cjnodgdodzn cvqz ovfzi kgvxz. Vyjkodib ocz
hvsdh di ocz xjiypxo ja jpm ajmzdbi vaavdmn "oj vnf ijocdib ocvo dn ijo
mdbco viy npwhdo oj ijocdib ocvo dn rmjib," do cvn wzzi ht visdjpn yzndmz
oj kmznzmqz kzvxz rdoc vgg ivodjin, wpo vo ocz nvhz odhz oj wz kmzkvmzy oj
mzndno vbbmznndji viy hvdiovdi vgg jpm epno mdbcon.

Di kpmnpvixz ja ocz ejdio mznjgpodji ja Xjibmznn "ajm viizsdib Ozsvn oj ocz
Pidozy Novozn," ht kmzyzxznnjm, ji ocz 3y yvt ja Hvmxc, 1845, zgzxozy oj
npwhdo ocz admno viy nzxjiy nzxodjin ja ocvo mznjgpodji oj ocz Mzkpwgdx ja
Ozsvn vn vi jqzmopmz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ajm czm vyhdnndji vn
v Novoz dioj jpm Pidji. Ocdn zgzxodji D vkkmjqzy, viy vxxjmydibgt ocz
xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn di Ozsvn, piyzm dinompxodjin ja ocz
10oc ja Hvmxc, 1845, kmznziozy ocznz nzxodjin ja ocz mznjgpodji ajm ocz
vxxzkovixz ja ocvo Mzkpwgdx. Ocz zszxpodqz bjqzmihzio, ocz Xjibmznn, viy
ocz kzjkgz ja Ozsvn di xjiqziodji cvqz npxxznndqzgt xjhkgdzy rdoc vgg ocz
ozmhn viy xjiydodjin ja ocz ejdio mznjgpodji. V xjinodopodji ajm ocz
bjqzmihzio ja ocz Novoz ja Ozsvn, ajmhzy wt v xjiqziodji ja yzkpodzn, dn
czmzrdoc gvdy wzajmz Xjibmznn. Do dn rzgg fijri, vgnj, ocvo ocz kzjkgz ja
Ozsvn vo ocz kjggn cvqz vxxzkozy ocz ozmhn ja viizsvodji viy mvodadzy ocz
xjinodopodji. D xjhhpidxvoz oj Xjibmznn ocz xjmmznkjiyzixz wzorzzi ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz viy jpm xcvmbz y'vaavdmzn di Ozsvn, viy vgnj ocz
xjmmznkjiyzixz ja ocz gvoozm rdoc ocz vpocjmdodzn ja Ozsvn, ojbzoczm rdoc
ocz jaadxdvg yjxphzion omvinhdoozy wt cdh oj cdn jri Bjqzmihzio. Ocz ozmhn
ja viizsvodji rcdxc rzmz jaazmzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn cvqdib wzzi vxxzkozy
wt Ozsvn, ocz kpwgdx avdoc ja wjoc kvmodzn dn njgzhigt kgzybzy oj ocz
xjhkvxo ja oczdm pidji. Ijocdib mzhvdin oj xjinphhvoz ocz zqzio wpo ocz
kvnnvbz ja vi vxo wt Xjibmznn oj vyhdo ocz Novoz ja Ozsvn dioj ocz Pidji
pkji vi zlpvg ajjodib rdoc ocz jmdbdivg Novozn. Nomjib mzvnjin zsdno rct
ocdn ncjpgy wz yjiz vo vi zvmgt kzmdjy ja ocz nznndji. Do rdgg wz jwnzmqzy
ocvo wt ocz xjinodopodji ja Ozsvn ocz zsdnodib bjqzmihzio dn jigt xjiodipzy
ozhkjmvmdgt odgg Xjibmznn xvi vxo, viy ocvo ocz ocdmy Hjiyvt ja ocz kmznzio
hjioc dn ocz yvt vkkjdiozy ajm cjgydib ocz admno bzizmvg zgzxodji. Ji ocvo
yvt v bjqzmijm, v gdzpozivio-bjqzmijm, viy wjoc wmvixczn ja ocz gzbdngvopmz
rdgg wz xcjnzi wt ocz kzjkgz. Ocz Kmzndyzio ja Ozsvn dn mzlpdmzy,
dhhzydvozgt vaozm ocz mzxzdko ja jaadxdvg diajmhvodji ocvo ocz izr Novoz
cvn wzzi vyhdoozy dioj jpm Pidji wt Xjibmznn, oj xjiqziz ocz gzbdngvopmz,
viy pkji don hzzodib ocz zsdnodib bjqzmihzio rdgg wz npkzmnzyzy viy ocz
Novoz bjqzmihzio jmbviduzy. Lpznodjin yzzkgt diozmznodib oj Ozsvn, di
xjhhji rdoc ocz joczm Novozn, ocz zsozindji ja jpm mzqzipz gvrn viy
epydxdvg ntnozh jqzm czm kzjkgz viy ozmmdojmt, vn rzgg vn hzvnpmzn ja v
gjxvg xcvmvxozm, rdgg xgvdh ocz zvmgt vooziodji ja Xjibmznn, viy oczmzajmz
pkji zqzmt kmdixdkgz ja mzkpwgdxvi bjqzmihzio ncz jpbco oj wz mzkmznziozy
di ocvo wjyt rdocjpo piizxznnvmt yzgvt. D xvi ijo ojj zvmiznogt mzxjhhziy
kmjhko vxodji ji ocdn dhkjmovio npwezxo. Vn njji vn ocz vxo oj vyhdo Ozsvn
vn v Novoz ncvgg wz kvnnzy ocz pidji ja ocz orj Mzkpwgdxn rdgg wz
xjinphhvozy wt oczdm jri qjgpiovmt xjinzio.

Ocdn vxxznndji oj jpm ozmmdojmt cvn wzzi v wgjjygznn vxcdzqzhzio. Ij vmh ja
ajmxz cvn wzzi mvdnzy oj kmjypxz ocz mznpgo. Ocz nrjmy cvn cvy ij kvmo di
ocz qdxojmt. Rz cvqz ijo njpbco oj zsoziy jpm ozmmdojmdvg kjnnznndjin wt
xjilpzno, jm jpm mzkpwgdxvi dinodopodjin jqzm v mzgpxovio kzjkgz. Do rvn
ocz yzgdwzmvoz cjhvbz ja zvxc kzjkgz oj ocz bmzvo kmdixdkgz ja jpm
azyzmvodqz pidji. Da rz xjindyzm ocz zsozio ja ozmmdojmt diqjgqzy di ocz
viizsvodji, don kmjnkzxodqz diagpzixz ji Vhzmdxv, ocz hzvin wt rcdxc do cvn
wzzi vxxjhkgdnczy, nkmdibdib kpmzgt amjh ocz xcjdxz ja ocz kzjkgz
oczhnzgqzn oj ncvmz ocz wgznndibn ja jpm pidji, ocz cdnojmt ja ocz rjmgy
hvt wz xcvggzibzy oj apmidnc v kvmvggzg. Ocz epmdnydxodji ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, rcdxc vo ocz ajmhvodji ja ocz Azyzmvg Xjinodopodji rvn wjpiyzy wt
ocz No. Hvmtn ji ocz Vogviodx, cvn kvnnzy ocz xvkzn ja Agjmdyv viy wzzi
kzvxzapggt zsoziyzy oj ocz Yzg Ijmoz. Di xjiozhkgvodib ocz bmviyzpm ja ocdn
zqzio do dn ijo oj wz ajmbjoozi ocvo ocz mznpgo rvn vxcdzqzy di yznkdoz ja
ocz ydkgjhvodx diozmazmzixz ja Zpmjkzvi hjivmxcdzn. Zqzi Amvixz, ocz
xjpiomt rcdxc cvy wzzi jpm vixdzio vggt, ocz xjpiomt rcdxc cvn v xjhhji
diozmzno rdoc pn di hvdiovdidib ocz amzzyjh ja ocz nzvn, ocz xjpiomt rcdxc,
wt ocz xznndji ja Gjpdndviv, admno jkzizy oj pn vxxznn oj ocz Bpga ja
Hzsdxj, ocz xjpiomt rdoc rcdxc rz cvqz wzzi zqzmt tzvm ymvrdib hjmz viy
hjmz xgjnzgt ocz wjiyn ja npxxznnapg xjhhzmxz, hjno pizskzxozygt, viy oj
jpm piazdbizy mzbmzo, ojjf kvmo di vi zaajmo oj kmzqzio viizsvodji viy oj
dhkjnz ji Ozsvn, vn v xjiydodji ja ocz mzxjbidodji ja czm diyzkziyzixz wt
Hzsdxj, ocvo ncz rjpgy izqzm ejdi czmnzga oj ocz Pidozy Novozn. Rz hvt
mzejdxz ocvo ocz omvilpdg viy kzmqvydib diagpzixz ja ocz Vhzmdxvi kmdixdkgz
ja nzga-bjqzmihzio rvn npaadxdzio oj yzazvo ocz kpmkjnzn ja Wmdodnc viy
Amzixc diozmazmzixz, viy ocvo ocz vghjno pividhjpn qjdxz ja ocz kzjkgz ja
Ozsvn cvn bdqzi oj ocvo diozmazmzixz v kzvxzapg viy zaazxodqz mzwpfz. Amjh
ocdn zsvhkgz Zpmjkzvi Bjqzmihzion hvt gzvmi cjr qvdi ydkgjhvodx vmon viy
diomdbpzn hpno zqzm kmjqz pkji ocdn xjiodizio vbvdino ocvo ntnozh ja
nzga-bjqzmihzio rcdxc nzzhn ivopmvg oj jpm njdg, viy rcdxc rdgg zqzm mzndno
ajmzdbi diozmazmzixz.

Ojrvmy Ozsvn D yj ijo yjpwo ocvo v gdwzmvg viy bzizmjpn nkdmdo rdgg vxopvoz
Xjibmznn di vgg ocvo xjixzmin czm diozmznon viy kmjnkzmdot, viy ocvo ncz
rdgg izqzm cvqz xvpnz oj mzbmzo ocvo ncz cvn pidozy czm "gjiz novm" oj jpm
bgjmdjpn xjinozggvodji.

D mzbmzo oj diajmh tjp ocvo jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Hzsdxj ndixz tjpm gvno
nznndji cvqz ijo wzzi ja ocz vhdxvwgz xcvmvxozm rcdxc do dn jpm yzndmz oj
xpgodqvoz rdoc vgg ajmzdbi ivodjin. Ji ocz 6oc yvt ja Hvmxc gvno ocz
Hzsdxvi ziqjt zsomvjmydivmt viy hdidnozm kgzidkjoziodvmt oj ocz Pidozy
Novozn hvyz v ajmhvg kmjozno di ocz ivhz ja cdn Bjqzmihzio vbvdino ocz
ejdio mznjgpodji kvnnzy wt Xjibmznn "ajm ocz viizsvodji ja Ozsvn oj ocz
Pidozy Novozn," rcdxc cz xcjnz oj mzbvmy vn v qdjgvodji ja ocz mdbcon ja
Hzsdxj, viy di xjinzlpzixz ja do cz yzhviyzy cdn kvnnkjmon. Cz rvn diajmhzy
ocvo ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ydy ijo xjindyzm ocdn ejdio
mznjgpodji vn v qdjgvodji ja vit ja ocz mdbcon ja Hzsdxj, jm ocvo do
vaajmyzy vit epno xvpnz ja jaazinz oj cdn Bjqzmihzio; ocvo ocz Mzkpwgdx ja
Ozsvn rvn vi diyzkziyzio kjrzm, jrdib ij vggzbdvixz oj Hzsdxj viy
xjinodopodib ij kvmo ja czm ozmmdojmt jm mdbcoapg njqzmzdbiot viy
epmdnydxodji. Cz rvn vgnj vnnpmzy ocvo do rvn ocz ndixzmz yzndmz ja ocdn
Bjqzmihzio oj hvdiovdi rdoc ocvo ja Hzsdxj mzgvodjin ja kzvxz viy bjjy
piyzmnoviydib. Ocvo apixodjivmt, cjrzqzm, ijordocnoviydib ocznz
mzkmznziovodjin viy vnnpmvixzn, vwmpkogt ozmhdivozy cdn hdnndji viy ncjmogt
vaozmrvmyn gzao ocz xjpiomt. Jpm ziqjt zsomvjmydivmt viy hdidnozm
kgzidkjoziodvmt oj Hzsdxj rvn mzapnzy vgg jaadxdvg diozmxjpmnz rdoc ocvo
Bjqzmihzio, viy, vaozm mzhvdidib nzqzmvg hjiocn, wt ocz kzmhdnndji ja cdn
jri Bjqzmihzio cz mzopmizy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocpn, wt ocz vxon ja
Hzsdxj, vgg ydkgjhvodx diozmxjpmnz wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn rvn
npnkziyzy.

Ndixz ocvo odhz Hzsdxj cvn piodg mzxziogt jxxpkdzy vi voodopyz ja cjnodgdot
ojrvmy ocz Pidozy Novozn--cvn wzzi hvmncvgdib viy jmbvidudib vmhdzn,
dnnpdib kmjxgvhvodjin, viy vqjrdib ocz dioziodji oj hvfz rvm ji ocz Pidozy
Novozn, zdoczm wt vi jkzi yzxgvmvodji jm wt diqvydib Ozsvn. Wjoc ocz
Xjibmznn viy xjiqziodji ja ocz kzjkgz ja Ozsvn diqdozy ocdn Bjqzmihzio oj
nziy vi vmht dioj ocvo ozmmdojmt oj kmjozxo viy yzaziy oczh vbvdino ocz
hzivxzy voovxf. Ocz hjhzio ocz ozmhn ja viizsvodji jaazmzy wt ocz Pidozy
Novozn rzmz vxxzkozy wt Ozsvn ocz gvoozm wzxvhz nj avm v kvmo ja jpm jri
xjpiomt vn oj hvfz do jpm ypot oj vaajmy npxc kmjozxodji viy yzazinz. D
oczmzajmz yzzhzy do kmjkzm, vn v kmzxvpodjivmt hzvnpmz, oj jmyzm v nomjib
nlpvymji oj ocz xjvnon ja Hzsdxj viy oj xjixziomvoz vi zaadxdzio hdgdovmt
ajmxz ji ocz rznozmi amjiodzm ja Ozsvn. Jpm Vmht rvn jmyzmzy oj ovfz
kjndodji di ocz xjpiomt wzorzzi ocz Ipzxzn viy ocz Yzg Ijmoz, viy oj mzkzg
vit diqvndji ja ocz Ozsvi ozmmdojmt rcdxc hdbco wz voozhkozy wt ocz Hzsdxvi
ajmxzn. Jpm nlpvymji di ocz Bpga rvn jmyzmzy oj xjjkzmvoz rdoc ocz Vmht.
Wpo ocjpbc jpm Vmht viy Ivqt rzmz kgvxzy di v kjndodji oj yzaziy jpm jri
viy ocz mdbcon ja Ozsvn, oczt rzmz jmyzmzy oj xjhhdo ij vxo ja cjnodgdot
vbvdino Hzsdxj pigznn ncz yzxgvmzy rvm jm rvn czmnzga ocz vbbmznnjm wt
nomdfdib ocz admno wgjr. Ocz mznpgo cvn wzzi ocvo Hzsdxj cvn hvyz ij
vbbmznndqz hjqzhzio, viy jpm hdgdovmt viy ivqvg xjhhviyzmn cvqz zszxpozy
oczdm jmyzmn rdoc npxc ydnxmzodji ocvo ocz kzvxz ja ocz orj Mzkpwgdxn cvn
ijo wzzi ydnopmwzy. Ozsvn cvy yzxgvmzy czm diyzkziyzixz viy hvdiovdizy do
wt czm vmhn ajm hjmz ocvi idiz tzvmn. Ncz cvn cvy vi jmbviduzy bjqzmihzio
di npxxznnapg jkzmvodji ypmdib ocvo kzmdjy. Czm nzkvmvoz zsdnozixz vn vi
diyzkziyzio novoz cvy wzzi mzxjbiduzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocz
kmdixdkvg kjrzmn ja Zpmjkz. Omzvodzn ja xjhhzmxz viy ivqdbvodji cvy wzzi
xjixgpyzy rdoc czm wt ydaazmzio ivodjin, viy do cvy wzxjhz hvidazno oj ocz
rcjgz rjmgy ocvo vit apmoczm voozhko ji ocz kvmo ja Hzsdxj oj xjilpzm czm
jm jqzmocmjr czm Bjqzmihzio rjpgy wz qvdi. Zqzi Hzsdxj czmnzga cvy wzxjhz
nvodnadzy ja ocdn avxo, viy rcdgno ocz lpznodji ja viizsvodji rvn kziydib
wzajmz ocz kzjkgz ja Ozsvn ypmdib ocz kvno nphhzm ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Hzsdxj,
wt v ajmhvg vxo, vbmzzy oj mzxjbiduz ocz diyzkziyzixz ja Ozsvn ji xjiydodji
ocvo ncz rjpgy ijo viizs czmnzga oj vit joczm kjrzm. Ocz vbmzzhzio oj
vxfijrgzybz ocz diyzkziyzixz ja Ozsvn, rczoczm rdoc jm rdocjpo ocdn
xjiydodji, dn xjixgpndqz vbvdino Hzsdxj. Ocz diyzkziyzixz ja Ozsvn dn v
avxo xjixzyzy wt Hzsdxj czmnzga, viy ncz cvy ij mdbco jm vpocjmdot oj
kmznxmdwz mznomdxodjin vn oj ocz ajmh ja bjqzmihzio rcdxc Ozsvn hdbco
vaozmrvmyn xcjjnz oj vnnphz. Wpo ocjpbc Hzsdxj xvi ijo xjhkgvdi ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn ji vxxjpio ja ocz viizsvodji ja Ozsvn, do dn oj wz mzbmzoozy
ocvo nzmdjpn xvpnzn ja hdnpiyzmnoviydib wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn xjiodipz
oj zsdno, bmjrdib jpo ja pimzymznnzy diepmdzn diagdxozy wt ocz Hzsdxvi
vpocjmdodzn viy kzjkgz ji ocz kzmnjin viy kmjkzmot ja xdoduzin ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn ocmjpbc v gjib nzmdzn ja tzvmn. Hzsdxj cvn vyhdoozy ocznz
diepmdzn, wpo cvn izbgzxozy viy mzapnzy oj mzkvdm oczh. Npxc rvn ocz
xcvmvxozm ja ocz rmjibn viy npxc ocz dinpgon mzkzvozygt jaazmzy oj Vhzmdxvi
xdoduzin viy ocz Vhzmdxvi agvb wt Hzsdxj, di kvgkvwgz qdjgvodji ja ocz gvrn
ja ivodjin viy ocz omzvot wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn ja ocz 5oc ja Vkmdg,
1831, ocvo oczt cvqz wzzi mzkzvozygt wmjpbco oj ocz ijodxz ja Xjibmznn wt
ht kmzyzxznnjmn. Vn zvmgt vn ocz 6oc ja Azwmpvmt, 1837, ocz Kmzndyzio ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn yzxgvmzy di v hznnvbz oj Xjibmznn ocvo--

Ocz gziboc ja odhz ndixz njhz ja ocz diepmdzn cvqz wzzi xjhhdoozy, ocz
mzkzvozy viy pivqvdgdib vkkgdxvodjin ajm mzymznn, ocz rvioji xcvmvxozm ja
njhz ja ocz jpomvbzn pkji ocz kmjkzmot viy kzmnjin ja jpm xdoduzin, pkji
ocz jaadxzmn viy agvb ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, diyzkziyzio ja mzxzio dinpgon
oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio viy kzjkgz wt ocz gvoz zsomvjmydivmt Hzsdxvi hdidnozm,
rjpgy epnodat di ocz ztzn ja vgg ivodjin dhhzydvoz rvm.

Cz ydy ijo, cjrzqzm, mzxjhhziy vi dhhzydvoz mznjmo oj ocdn zsomzhz hzvnpmz,
rcdxc, cz yzxgvmzy, "ncjpgy ijo wz pnzy wt epno viy bzizmjpn ivodjin,
xjiadydib di oczdm nomziboc ajm diepmdzn xjhhdoozy, da do xvi wz cjijmvwgt
vqjdyzy," wpo, di v nkdmdo ja ajmwzvmvixz, kmjkjnzy ocvo vijoczm yzhviy wz
hvyz ji Hzsdxj ajm ocvo mzymznn rcdxc cvy wzzi nj gjib viy piepnogt
rdocczgy. Di ocznz qdzrn xjhhdoozzn ja ocz orj Cjpnzn ja Xjibmznn, di
mzkjmon hvyz oj oczdm mznkzxodqz wjydzn, xjixpmmzy. Ndixz ocznz kmjxzzydibn
hjmz ocvi zdbco tzvmn cvqz zgvknzy, ypmdib rcdxc, di vyydodji oj ocz rmjibn
oczi xjhkgvdizy ja, joczmn ja vi vbbmvqvozy xcvmvxozm cvqz wzzi xjhhdoozy
ji ocz kzmnjin viy kmjkzmot ja jpm xdoduzin. V nkzxdvg vbzio rvn nzio oj
Hzsdxj di ocz nphhzm ja 1838 rdoc apgg vpocjmdot oj hvfz vijoczm viy adivg
yzhviy ajm mzymznn. Ocz yzhviy rvn hvyz; ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio kmjhdnzy oj
mzkvdm ocz rmjibn ja rcdxc rz xjhkgvdizy, viy vaozm hpxc yzgvt v omzvot ja
diyzhidot rdoc ocvo qdzr rvn xjixgpyzy wzorzzi ocz orj kjrzmn ji ocz 11oc
ja Vkmdg, 1839, viy rvn ypgt mvodadzy wt wjoc Bjqzmihzion. Wt ocdn omzvot v
ejdio xjhhdnndji rvn xmzvozy oj vyepydxvoz viy yzxdyz ji ocz xgvdhn ja
Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin ji ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Hzsdxj. Ocz xjhhdnndji rvn jmbviduzy
vo Rvncdiboji ji ocz 25oc yvt ja Vpbpno, 1840. Oczdm odhz rvn gdhdozy oj
zdbcozzi hjiocn, vo ocz zskdmvodji ja rcdxc oczt cvy vyepydxvozy viy
yzxdyzy xgvdhn vhjpiodib oj $2,026,139.68 di avqjm ja xdoduzin ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn vbvdino ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio, gzvqdib v gvmbz vhjpio ja
xgvdhn piyzxdyzy. Ja ocz gvoozm ocz Vhzmdxvi xjhhdnndjizmn cvy yzxdyzy di
avqjm ja jpm xdoduzin xgvdhn vhjpiodib oj $928,627.88, rcdxc rzmz gzao
pivxozy ji wt ocz phkdmz vpocjmduzy wt ocz omzvot. Nodgg apmoczm xgvdhn,
vhjpiodib oj wzorzzi ocmzz viy ajpm hdggdjin ja yjggvmn, rzmz npwhdoozy oj
ocz wjvmy ojj gvoz oj wz xjindyzmzy, viy rzmz gzao piydnkjnzy ja. Ocz nph
ja $2,026,139.68, yzxdyzy wt ocz wjvmy, rvn v gdlpdyvozy viy vnxzmovdizy
yzwo ypz wt Hzsdxj oj ocz xgvdhvion, viy oczmz rvn ij epnodadvwgz mzvnji
ajm yzgvtdib don kvthzio vxxjmydib oj ocz ozmhn ja ocz omzvot. Do rvn ijo,
cjrzqzm, kvdy. Hzsdxj vkkgdzy ajm apmoczm diypgbzixz, viy, di ocvo nkdmdo
ja gdwzmvgdot viy ajmwzvmvixz rcdxc cvn zqzm hvmfzy ocz kjgdxt ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn ojrvmy ocvo Mzkpwgdx, ocz mzlpzno rvn bmviozy, viy ji ocz
30oc ja Evipvmt, 1843, v izr omzvot rvn xjixgpyzy. Wt ocdn omzvot do rvn
kmjqdyzy ocvo ocz diozmzno ypz ji ocz vrvmyn di avqjm ja xgvdhvion piyzm
ocz xjiqziodji ja ocz 11oc ja Vkmdg, 1839, ncjpgy wz kvdy jpo ocz 30oc ja
Vkmdg, 1843, viy ocvo--

Ocz kmdixdkvg ja ocz nvdy vrvmyn viy ocz diozmzno vxxmpdib oczmzji ncvgg wz
kvdy di adqz tzvmn, di zlpvg dinovgghzion zqzmt ocmzz hjiocn, ocz nvdy ozmh
ja adqz tzvmn oj xjhhzixz ji ocz 30oc yvt ja Vkmdg, 1843, vajmznvdy.

Ocz diozmzno ypz ji ocz 30oc yvt ja Vkmdg, 1843, viy ocz ocmzz admno ja ocz
orziot dinovgghzion cvqz wzzi kvdy. Nzqziozzi ja ocznz dinovgghzion, mzhvdi
pikvdy, nzqzi ja rcdxc vmz ijr ypz.

Ocz xgvdhn rcdxc rzmz gzao piyzxdyzy wt ocz ejdio xjhhdnndji, vhjpiodib oj
hjmz ocvi $3,000,000, ojbzoczm rdoc joczm xgvdhn ajm nkjgdvodjin ji ocz
kmjkzmot ja jpm xdoduzin, rzmz npwnzlpziogt kmznziozy oj ocz Hzsdxvi
Bjqzmihzio ajm kvthzio, viy rzmz nj avm mzxjbiduzy ocvo v omzvot kmjqdydib
ajm oczdm zsvhdivodji viy nzoogzhzio wt v ejdio xjhhdnndji rvn xjixgpyzy
viy ndbizy vo Hzsdxj ji ocz 20oc yvt ja Ijqzhwzm, 1843. Ocdn omzvot rvn
mvodadzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn rdoc xzmovdi vhziyhzion oj rcdxc ij epno
zsxzkodji xjpgy cvqz wzzi ovfzi, wpo do cvn ijo tzo mzxzdqzy ocz
mvodadxvodji ja ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio. Di ocz hzviodhz jpm xdoduzin, rcj
npaazmzy bmzvo gjnnzn--viy njhz ja rcjh cvqz wzzi mzypxzy amjh vaagpzixz oj
wvifmpkoxt--vmz rdocjpo mzhzyt pigznn oczdm mdbcon wz ziajmxzy wt oczdm
Bjqzmihzio. Npxc v xjiodipzy viy pikmjqjfzy nzmdzn ja rmjibn xjpgy izqzm
cvqz wzzi ojgzmvozy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn cvy oczt wzzi xjhhdoozy wt jiz ja
ocz kmdixdkvg ivodjin ja Zpmjkz. Hzsdxj rvn, cjrzqzm, v izdbcwjmdib ndnozm
mzkpwgdx, rcdxc, ajggjrdib jpm zsvhkgz, cvy vxcdzqzy czm diyzkziyzixz, viy
ajm rcjnz npxxznn viy kmjnkzmdot vgg jpm nthkvocdzn rzmz zvmgt zigdnozy.
Ocz Pidozy Novozn rzmz ocz admno oj mzxjbiduz czm diyzkziyzixz viy oj
mzxzdqz czm dioj ocz avhdgt ja ivodjin, viy cvqz zqzm wzzi yzndmjpn ja
xpgodqvodib rdoc czm v bjjy piyzmnoviydib. Rz cvqz oczmzajmz wjmiz ocz
mzkzvozy rmjibn ncz cvn xjhhdoozy rdoc bmzvo kvodzixz, di ocz cjkz ocvo v
mzopmidib nzinz ja epnodxz rjpgy pgodhvozgt bpdyz czm xjpixdgn viy ocvo rz
hdbco, da kjnndwgz, cjijmvwgt vqjdy vit cjnodgz xjggdndji rdoc czm. Rdocjpo
ocz kmzqdjpn vpocjmdot ja Xjibmznn ocz Zszxpodqz kjnnznnzy ij kjrzm oj
vyjko jm ziajmxz vyzlpvoz mzhzydzn ajm ocz diepmdzn rz cvy npaazmzy, jm oj
yj hjmz ocvi oj wz kmzkvmzy oj mzkzg ocz ocmzvozizy vbbmznndji ji ocz kvmo
ja Hzsdxj. Vaozm jpm Vmht viy Ivqt cvy mzhvdizy ji ocz amjiodzm viy xjvnon
ja Hzsdxj ajm hvit rzzfn rdocjpo vit cjnodgz hjqzhzio ji czm kvmo, ocjpbc
czm hzivxzn rzmz xjiodipzy, D yzzhzy do dhkjmovio oj kpo vi ziy, da
kjnndwgz, oj ocdn novoz ja ocdibn. Rdoc ocdn qdzr D xvpnzy nozkn oj wz
ovfzi di ocz hjioc ja Nzkozhwzm gvno oj vnxzmovdi ydnodixogt viy di vi
vpocziodx ajmh rcvo ocz yzndbin ja ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio rzmz--rczoczm do
rvn oczdm dioziodji oj yzxgvmz rvm, jm diqvyz Ozsvn, jm rczoczm oczt rzmz
ydnkjnzy oj vyepno viy nzoogz di vi vhdxvwgz hviizm ocz kziydib ydaazmzixzn
wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn. Ji ocz 9oc ja Ijqzhwzm vi jaadxdvg vinrzm rvn
mzxzdqzy ocvo ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio xjinziozy oj mzizr ocz ydkgjhvodx
mzgvodjin rcdxc cvy wzzi npnkziyzy di Hvmxc gvno, viy ajm ocvo kpmkjnz rzmz
rdggdib oj vxxmzydo v hdidnozm amjh ocz Pidozy Novozn. Rdoc v ndixzmz
yzndmz oj kmznzmqz kzvxz viy mznojmz mzgvodjin ja bjjy piyzmnoviydib
wzorzzi ocz orj Mzkpwgdxn, D rvdqzy vgg xzmzhjit vn oj ocz hviizm ja
mzizrdib ydkgjhvodx diozmxjpmnz wzorzzi oczh, viy, vnnphdib ocz didodvodqz,
ji ocz 10oc ja Ijqzhwzm v ydnodibpdnczy xdoduzi ja Gjpdndviv rvn vkkjdiozy
ziqjt zsomvjmydivmt viy hdidnozm kgzidkjoziodvmt oj Hzsdxj, xgjoczy rdoc
apgg kjrzmn oj vyepno viy yzadidodqzgt nzoogz vgg kziydib ydaazmzixzn
wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn, dixgpydib ocjnz ja wjpiyvmt wzorzzi Hzsdxj viy
ocz Novoz ja Ozsvn. Ocz hdidnozm vkkjdiozy cvn nzo jpo ji cdn hdnndji viy
dn kmjwvwgt wt ocdn odhz izvm ocz Hzsdxvi xvkdovg. Cz cvn wzzi dinompxozy
oj wmdib ocz izbjodvodji rdoc rcdxc cz dn xcvmbzy oj v xjixgpndji vo ocz
zvmgdzno kmvxodxvwgz kzmdjy, rcdxc do dn zskzxozy rdgg wz di odhz oj zivwgz
hz oj xjhhpidxvoz ocz mznpgo oj Xjibmznn ypmdib ocz kmznzio nznndji. Piodg
ocvo mznpgo dn fijri D ajmwzvm oj mzxjhhziy oj Xjibmznn npxc pgozmdjm
hzvnpmzn ja mzymznn ajm ocz rmjibn viy diepmdzn rz cvqz nj gjib wjmiz vn do
rjpgy cvqz wzzi kmjkzm oj hvfz cvy ij npxc izbjodvodji wzzi dinodopozy.

Xjibmznn vkkmjkmdvozy vo ocz gvno nznndji ocz nph ja $275,000 ajm ocz
kvthzio ja ocz Vkmdg viy Epgt dinovgghzion ja ocz Hzsdxvi diyzhidodzn ajm
ocz tzvm 1844:

Kmjqdyzy do ncvgg wz vnxzmovdizy oj ocz nvodnavxodji ja ocz Vhzmdxvi
Bjqzmihzio ocvo nvdy dinovgghzion cvqz wzzi kvdy wt ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio
oj ocz vbzio vkkjdiozy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn oj mzxzdqz ocz nvhz di npxc
hviizm vn oj ydnxcvmbz vgg xgvdh ji ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio, viy nvdy vbzio
oj wz yzgdilpzio di mzhdoodib ocz hjizt oj ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ocz pinzoogzy novoz ja jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Hzsdxj cvn diqjgqzy ocdn npwezxo
di hpxc htnozmt. Ocz admno diajmhvodji di vi vpocziodx ajmh amjh ocz vbzio
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, vkkjdiozy piyzm ocz Vyhdidnomvodji ja ht kmzyzxznnjm,
rvn mzxzdqzy vo ocz Novoz Yzkvmohzio ji ocz 9oc ja Ijqzhwzm gvno. Ocdn dn
xjiovdizy di v gzoozm, yvozy ocz 17oc ja Jxojwzm, vyymznnzy wt cdh oj jiz
ja jpm xdoduzin oczi di Hzsdxj rdoc v qdzr ja cvqdib do xjhhpidxvozy oj
ocvo Yzkvmohzio. Amjh ocdn do vkkzvmn ocvo ocz vbzio ji ocz 20oc ja
Nzkozhwzm, 1844, bvqz v mzxzdko oj ocz omzvnpmt ja Hzsdxj ajm ocz vhjpio ja
ocz Vkmdg viy Epgt dinovgghzion ja ocz diyzhidot. Di ocz nvhz
xjhhpidxvodji, cjrzqzm, cz vnnzmon ocvo cz cvy ijo mzxzdqzy v ndibgz yjggvm
di xvnc, wpo ocvo cz cjgyn npxc nzxpmdodzn vn rvmmviozy cdh vo ocz odhz di
bdqdib ocz mzxzdko, viy ziozmovdin ij yjpwo wpo ocvo cz rdgg zqziopvggt
jwovdi ocz hjizt. Vn ocznz dinovgghzion vkkzvm izqzm oj cvqz wzzi vxopvggt
kvdy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Hzsdxj oj ocz vbzio, viy vn ocvo Bjqzmihzio cvn
ijo, oczmzajmz, wzzi mzgzvnzy nj vn oj ydnxcvmbz ocz xgvdh, D yj ijo azzg
htnzga rvmmviozy di ydmzxodib kvthzio oj wz hvyz oj ocz xgvdhvion jpo ja
ocz Omzvnpmt rdocjpo apmoczm gzbdngvodji. Oczdm xvnz dn piyjpwozygt jiz ja
hpxc cvmyncdk, viy do mzhvdin ajm Xjibmznn oj yzxdyz rczoczm vit, viy rcvo,
mzgdza jpbco oj wz bmviozy oj oczh. Jpm hdidnozm oj Hzsdxj cvn wzzi
dinompxozy oj vnxzmovdi ocz avxon ja ocz xvnz amjh ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio
di vi vpocziodx viy jaadxdvg ajmh viy mzkjmo ocz mznpgo rdoc vn gdoogz
yzgvt vn kjnndwgz.

Ht vooziodji rvn zvmgt ydmzxozy oj ocz izbjodvodji rcdxc ji ocz 4oc ja
Hvmxc gvno D ajpiy kziydib vo Rvncdiboji wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
Bmzvo Wmdovdi ji ocz npwezxo ja ocz Jmzbji Ozmmdojmt. Ocmzz nzqzmvg
voozhkon cvy wzzi kmzqdjpngt hvyz oj nzoogz ocz lpznodjin di ydnkpoz
wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn wt izbjodvodji pkji ocz kmdixdkgz ja xjhkmjhdnz,
wpo zvxc cvy kmjqzy pinpxxznnapg. Ocznz izbjodvodjin ojjf kgvxz vo Gjiyji
di ocz tzvmn 1818, 1824, viy 1826--ocz orj admno piyzm ocz Vyhdidnomvodji
ja Hm. Hjimjz viy ocz gvno piyzm ocvo ja Hm. Vyvhn. Ocz izbjodvodji ja
1818, cvqdib avdgzy oj vxxjhkgdnc don jwezxo, mznpgozy di ocz xjiqziodji ja
ocz 20oc ja Jxojwzm ja ocvo tzvm.

Wt ocz ocdmy vmodxgz ja ocvo xjiqziodji do rvn--

Vbmzzy ocvo vit xjpiomt ocvo hvt wz xgvdhzy wt zdoczm kvmot ji ocz
ijmocrzno xjvno ja Vhzmdxv rznorvmy ja ocz Nojit Hjpiovdin ncvgg, ojbzoczm
rdoc don cvmwjmn, wvtn, viy xmzzfn, viy ocz ivqdbvodji ja vgg mdqzmn rdocdi
ocz nvhz, wz amzz viy jkzi ajm ocz ozmh ja ozi tzvmn amjh ocz yvoz ja ocz
ndbivopmz ja ocz kmznzio xjiqziodji oj ocz qznnzgn, xdoduzin, viy npwezxon
ja ocz orj kjrzmn; do wzdib rzgg piyzmnojjy ocvo ocdn vbmzzhzio dn ijo oj
wz xjinompzy oj ocz kmzepydxz ja vit xgvdh rcdxc zdoczm ja ocz orj cdbc
xjiomvxodib kvmodzn hvt cvqz oj vit kvmo ja ocz nvdy xjpiomt, ijm ncvgg do
wz ovfzi oj vaazxo ocz xgvdhn ja vit joczm kjrzm jm novoz oj vit kvmo ja
ocz nvdy xjpiomt, ocz jigt jwezxo ja ocz cdbc xjiomvxodib kvmodzn di ocvo
mznkzxo wzdib oj kmzqzio ydnkpozn viy ydaazmzixzn vhjibno oczhnzgqzn.

Ocz izbjodvodji ja 1824 rvn kmjypxodqz ja ij mznpgo, viy ocz xjiqziodji ja
1818 rvn gzao pixcvibzy.

Ocz izbjodvodji ja 1826, cvqdib vgnj avdgzy oj zaazxo vi vyepnohzio wt
xjhkmjhdnz, mznpgozy di ocz xjiqziodji ja Vpbpno 6, 1827, wt rcdxc do rvn
vbmzzy oj xjiodipz di ajmxz ajm vi diyzadidoz kzmdjy ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz
ocdmy vmodxgz ja ocz xjiqziodji ja ocz 20oc ja Jxojwzm, 1818; viy do rvn
apmoczm kmjqdyzy ocvo--

Do ncvgg wz xjhkzozio, cjrzqzm, oj zdoczm ja ocz xjiomvxodib kvmodzn, di
xvnz zdoczm ncjpgy ocdif ado, vo vit odhz vaozm ocz 20oc ja Jxojwzm, 1828,
ji bdqdib ypz ijodxz ja orzgqz hjiocn oj ocz joczm xjiomvxodib kvmot, oj
viipg viy vwmjbvoz ocdn xjiqziodji; viy do ncvgg di npxc xvnz wz
vxxjmydibgt ziodmzgt viipggzy viy vwmjbvozy vaozm ocz zskdmvodji ja ocz
nvdy ozmh ja ijodxz.

Di ocznz voozhkon oj vyepno ocz xjiomjqzmnt ocz kvmvggzg ja ocz ajmot-idioc
yzbmzz ja ijmoc gvodopyz cvy wzzi jaazmzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn oj Bmzvo
Wmdovdi, viy di ocjnz ja 1818 viy 1826, rdoc v apmoczm xjixznndji ja ocz
amzz ivqdbvodji ja ocz Xjgphwdv Mdqzm njpoc ja ocvo gvodopyz. Ocz kvmvggzg
ja ocz ajmot-idioc yzbmzz amjh ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin oj don diozmnzxodji rdoc
ocz ijmoczvnozmihjno wmvixc ja ocz Xjgphwdv, viy oczixz yjri ocz xcviizg ja
ocvo mdqzm oj ocz nzv, cvy wzzi jaazmzy wt Bmzvo Wmdovdi, rdoc vi vyydodji
ja v nhvgg yzovxczy ozmmdojmt ijmoc ja ocz Xjgphwdv. Zvxc ja ocznz
kmjkjndodjin cvy wzzi mzezxozy wt ocz kvmodzn mznkzxodqzgt. Di Jxojwzm,
1843, ocz ziqjt zsomvjmydivmt viy hdidnozm kgzidkjoziodvmt ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn di Gjiyji rvn vpocjmduzy oj hvfz v ndhdgvm jaazm oj ocjnz hvyz di
1818 viy 1826. Ocpn nojjy ocz lpznodji rczi ocz izbjodvodji rvn ncjmogt
vaozmrvmyn omvinazmmzy oj Rvncdiboji, viy ji ocz 23y ja Vpbpno, 1844, rvn
ajmhvggt jkzizy piyzm ocz ydmzxodji ja ht dhhzydvoz kmzyzxznnjm. Gdfz vgg
ocz kmzqdjpn izbjodvodjin, do rvn wvnzy pkji kmdixdkgzn ja "xjhkmjhdnz,"
viy ocz vqjrzy kpmkjnz ja ocz kvmodzn rvn "oj omzvo ja ocz mznkzxodqz
xgvdhn ja ocz orj xjpiomdzn oj ocz Jmzbji Ozmmdojmt rdoc ocz qdzr oj
znovwgdnc v kzmhvizio wjpiyvmt wzorzzi oczh rznorvmy ja ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin
oj ocz Kvxdadx Jxzvi."

Vxxjmydibgt, ji ocz 26oc ja Vpbpno, 1844, ocz Wmdodnc kgzidkjoziodvmt
jaazmzy oj ydqdyz ocz Jmzbji Ozmmdojmt wt ocz ajmot-idioc kvmvggzg ja ijmoc
gvodopyz amjh ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin oj ocz kjdio ja don diozmnzxodji rdoc ocz
ijmoczvnozmihjno wmvixc ja ocz Xjgphwdv Mdqzm, viy oczixz yjri ocvo mdqzm
oj ocz nzv, gzvqdib ocz amzz ivqdbvodji ja ocz mdqzm oj wz ziejtzy di
xjhhji wt wjoc kvmodzn, ocz xjpiomt njpoc ja ocdn gdiz oj wzgjib oj ocz
Pidozy Novozn viy ocvo ijmoc ja do oj Bmzvo Wmdovdi. Vo ocz nvhz odhz cz
kmjkjnzy di vyydodji oj tdzgy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn v yzovxczy ozmmdojmt
ijmoc ja ocz Xjgphwdv zsoziydib vgjib ocz Kvxdadx viy ocz Nomvdon ja Apxv
amjh Wpgadixcn Cvmwjm, dixgpndqz, oj Cjjyn Xvivg, viy oj hvfz amzz oj ocz
Pidozy Novozn vit kjmo jm kjmon njpoc ja gvodopyz 49  rcdxc oczt hdbco
yzndmz, zdoczm ji ocz hvdigviy jm ji Lpvymv viy Qvixjpqzmn Dngviy. Rdoc ocz
zsxzkodji ja ocz amzz kjmon, ocdn rvn ocz nvhz jaazm rcdxc cvy wzzi hvyz wt
ocz Wmdodnc viy mzezxozy wt ocz Vhzmdxvi Bjqzmihzio di ocz izbjodvodji ja
1826. Ocdn kmjkjndodji rvn kmjkzmgt mzezxozy wt ocz Vhzmdxvi
kgzidkjoziodvmt ji ocz yvt do rvn npwhdoozy. Ocdn rvn ocz jigt kmjkjndodji
ja xjhkmjhdnz jaazmzy wt ocz Wmdodnc kgzidkjoziodvmt. Ocz kmjkjndodji ji
ocz kvmo ja Bmzvo Wmdovdi cvqdib wzzi mzezxozy, ocz Wmdodnc kgzidkjoziodvmt
mzlpznozy ocvo v kmjkjnvg ncjpgy wz hvyz wt ocz Pidozy Novozn ajm "vi
zlpdovwgz vyepnohzio ja ocz lpznodji." Rczi D xvhz dioj jaadxz D ajpiy ocdn
oj wz ocz novoz ja ocz izbjodvodji. Ocjpbc ziozmovdidib ocz nzoogzy
xjiqdxodji ocvo ocz Wmdodnc kmzozindjin ja odogz xjpgy ijo wz hvdiovdizy oj
vit kjmodji ja ocz Jmzbji Ozmmdojmt pkji vit kmdixdkgz ja kpwgdx gvr
mzxjbiduzy wt ivodjin, tzo di yzazmzixz oj rcvo cvy wzzi yjiz wt ht
kmzyzxznnjmn, viy znkzxdvggt di xjindyzmvodji ocvo kmjkjndodjin ja
xjhkmjhdnz cvy wzzi ocmdxz hvyz wt orj kmzxzydib Vyhdidnomvodjin oj vyepno
ocz lpznodji ji ocz kvmvggzg ja 49 , viy di orj ja oczh tdzgydib oj
Bmzvo Wmdovdi ocz amzz ivqdbvodji ja ocz Xjgphwdv, viy ocvo ocz kziydib
izbjodvodji cvy wzzi xjhhzixzy ji ocz wvndn ja xjhkmjhdnz, D yzzhzy do oj
wz ht ypot ijo vwmpkogt oj wmzvf do jaa. Di xjindyzmvodji, ojj, ocvo piyzm
ocz xjiqziodjin ja 1818 viy 1827 ocz xdoduzin viy npwezxon ja ocz orj
kjrzmn czgy v ejdio jxxpkvixt ja ocz xjpiomt, D rvn diypxzy oj hvfz vijoczm
zaajmo oj nzoogz ocdn gjib-kziydib xjiomjqzmnt di ocz nkdmdo ja hjyzmvodji
rcdxc cvy bdqzi wdmoc oj ocz mzizrzy ydnxpnndji. V kmjkjndodji rvn
vxxjmydibgt hvyz, rcdxc rvn mzezxozy wt ocz Wmdodnc kgzidkjoziodvmt, rcj,
rdocjpo npwhdoodib vit joczm kmjkjndodji, npaazmzy ocz izbjodvodji ji cdn
kvmo oj ymjk, zskmznndib cdn ompno ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn rjpgy jaazm rcvo
cz nvr ado oj xvgg "njhz apmoczm kmjkjnvg ajm ocz nzoogzhzio ja ocz Jmzbji
lpznodji hjmz xjindnozio rdoc avdmiznn viy zlpdot viy rdoc ocz mzvnjivwgz
zskzxovodjin ja ocz Wmdodnc Bjqzmihzio." Ocz kmjkjndodji ocpn jaazmzy viy
mzezxozy mzkzvozy ocz jaazm ja ocz kvmvggzg ja 49  ja ijmoc gvodopyz,
rcdxc cvy wzzi hvyz wt orj kmzxzydib Vyhdidnomvodjin, wpo rdocjpo kmjkjndib
oj npmmziyzm oj Bmzvo Wmdovdi, vn oczt cvy yjiz, ocz amzz ivqdbvodji ja ocz
Xjgphwdv Mdqzm. Ocz mdbco ja vit ajmzdbi kjrzm oj ocz amzz ivqdbvodji ja
vit ja jpm mdqzmn ocmjpbc ocz czvmo ja jpm xjpiomt rvn jiz rcdxc D rvn
pirdggdib oj xjixzyz. Do vgnj zhwmvxzy v kmjqdndji oj hvfz amzz oj Bmzvo
Wmdovdi vit kjmo jm kjmon ji ocz xvk ja Lpvymv viy Qvixjpqzmn Dngviy njpoc
ja ocdn kvmvggzg. Cvy ocdn wzzi v izr lpznodji, xjhdib piyzm ydnxpnndji ajm
ocz admno odhz, ocdn kmjkjndodji rjpgy ijo cvqz wzzi hvyz. Ocz
zsomvjmydivmt viy rcjggt divyhdnndwgz yzhviyn ja ocz Wmdodnc Bjqzmihzio viy
ocz mzezxodji ja ocz kmjkjndodji hvyz di yzazmzixz vgjiz oj rcvo cvy wzzi
yjiz wt ht kmzyzxznnjmn viy ocz dhkgdzy jwgdbvodji rcdxc oczdm vxon nzzhzy
oj dhkjnz vaajmy nvodnavxojmt zqdyzixz ocvo ij xjhkmjhdnz rcdxc ocz Pidozy
Novozn jpbco oj vxxzko xvi wz zaazxozy. Rdoc ocdn xjiqdxodji ocz
kmjkjndodji ja xjhkmjhdnz rcdxc cvy wzzi hvyz viy mzezxozy rvn wt ht
ydmzxodji npwnzlpziogt rdocymvri viy jpm odogz oj ocz rcjgz Jmzbji
Ozmmdojmt vnnzmozy, viy, vn dn wzgdzqzy, hvdiovdizy wt dmmzamvbvwgz avxon
viy vmbphzion.

Ocz xdqdgduzy rjmgy rdgg nzz di ocznz kmjxzzydibn v nkdmdo ja gdwzmvg
xjixznndji ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy ocdn Bjqzmihzio rdgg wz
mzgdzqzy amjh vgg mznkjindwdgdot rcdxc hvt ajggjr ocz avdgpmz oj nzoogz ocz
xjiomjqzmnt.

Vgg voozhkon vo xjhkmjhdnz cvqdib avdgzy, do wzxjhzn ocz ypot ja Xjibmznn
oj xjindyzm rcvo hzvnpmzn do hvt wz kmjkzm oj vyjko ajm ocz nzxpmdot viy
kmjozxodji ja jpm xdoduzin ijr dicvwdodib jm rcj hvt czmzvaozm dicvwdo
Jmzbji, viy ajm ocz hvdiozivixz ja jpm epno odogz oj ocvo Ozmmdojmt. Di
vyjkodib hzvnpmzn ajm ocdn kpmkjnz xvmz ncjpgy wz ovfzi ocvo ijocdib wz
yjiz oj qdjgvoz ocz nodkpgvodjin ja ocz xjiqziodji ja 1827, rcdxc dn nodgg
di ajmxz. Ocz avdoc ja omzvodzn, di oczdm gzoozm viy nkdmdo, cvn zqzm wzzi,
viy, D ompno, rdgg zqzm wz, nxmpkpgjpngt jwnzmqzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn.
Piyzm ocvo xjiqziodji v tzvm'n ijodxz dn mzlpdmzy oj wz bdqzi wt zdoczm
kvmot oj ocz joczm wzajmz ocz ejdio jxxpkvixt ncvgg ozmhdivoz viy wzajmz
zdoczm xvi mdbcoapggt vnnzmo jm zszmxdnz zsxgpndqz epmdnydxodji jqzm vit
kjmodji ja ocz ozmmdojmt. Ocdn ijodxz do rjpgy, di ht epybhzio, wz kmjkzm
oj bdqz, viy D mzxjhhziy ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz wt gvr ajm bdqdib do
vxxjmydibgt, viy ozmhdivodib di ocdn hviizm ocz xjiqziodji ja ocz 6oc ja
Vpbpno, 1827.

Do rdgg wzxjhz kmjkzm ajm Xjibmznn oj yzozmhdiz rcvo gzbdngvodji oczt xvi
di ocz hzviodhz vyjko rdocjpo qdjgvodib ocdn xjiqziodji. Wztjiy vgg
lpznodji ocz kmjozxodji ja jpm gvrn viy jpm epmdnydxodji, xdqdg viy
xmdhdivg, jpbco oj wz dhhzydvozgt zsoziyzy jqzm jpm xdoduzin di Jmzbji.
Oczt cvqz cvy epno xvpnz oj xjhkgvdi ja jpm gjib izbgzxo di ocdn
kvmodxpgvm, viy cvqz di xjinzlpzixz wzzi xjhkzggzy ajm oczdm jri nzxpmdot
viy kmjozxodji oj znovwgdnc v kmjqdndjivg bjqzmihzio ajm oczhnzgqzn. Nomjib
di oczdm vggzbdvixz viy vmyzio di oczdm voovxchzio oj ocz Pidozy Novozn,
oczt cvqz wzzi ocpn xvno pkji oczdm jri mznjpmxzn. Oczt vmz visdjpn ocvo
jpm gvrn ncjpgy wz zsoziyzy jqzm oczh, viy D mzxjhhziy ocvo ocdn wz yjiz wt
Xjibmznn rdoc vn gdoogz yzgvt vn kjnndwgz di ocz apgg zsozio oj rcdxc ocz
Wmdodnc Kvmgdvhzio cvqz kmjxzzyzy di mzbvmy oj Wmdodnc npwezxon di ocvo
Ozmmdojmt wt oczdm vxo ja Epgt 2, 1821, "ajm mzbpgvodib ocz apm omvyz viy
znovwgdncdib v xmdhdivg viy xdqdg epmdnydxodji rdocdi xzmovdi kvmon ja
Ijmoc Vhzmdxv." Wt ocdn vxo Bmzvo Wmdovdi zsoziyzy czm gvrn viy
epmdnydxodji, xdqdg viy xmdhdivg, jqzm czm npwezxon zibvbzy di ocz apm
omvyz di ocvo Ozmmdojmt. Wt do ocz xjpmon ja ocz Kmjqdixz ja Pkkzm Xvivyv
rzmz zhkjrzmzy oj ovfz xjbiduvixz ja xvpnzn xdqdg viy xmdhdivg. Epnodxzn ja
ocz kzvxz viy joczm epydxdvg jaadxzmn rzmz vpocjmduzy oj wz vkkjdiozy di
Jmzbji rdoc kjrzm oj zszxpoz vgg kmjxznn dnnpdib amjh ocz xjpmon ja ocvo
Kmjqdixz, viy oj "ndo viy cjgy xjpmon ja mzxjmy ajm ocz omdvg ja xmdhdivg
jaazinzn viy hdnyzhzvijmn" ijo hvyz ocz npwezxo ja xvkdovg kpidnchzio, viy
vgnj ja xdqdg xvnzn rczmz ocz xvpnz ja vxodji ncvgg ijo "zsxzzy di qvgpz
ocz vhjpio jm nph ja gwn. 200."

Npwnzlpzio oj ocz yvoz ja ocdn vxo ja Kvmgdvhzio v bmvio rvn hvyz amjh ocz
"Wmdodnc Xmjri" oj ocz Cpynjin Wvt Xjhkvit ja ocz zsxgpndqz omvyz rdoc ocz
Diydvi omdwzn di ocz Jmzbji Ozmmdojmt, npwezxo oj v mznzmqvodji ocvo do
ncvgg ijo jkzmvoz oj ocz zsxgpndji "ja ocz npwezxon ja vit ajmzdbi novozn
rcj, piyzm jm wt ajmxz ja vit xjiqziodji ajm ocz odhz wzdib wzorzzi pn viy
npxc ajmzdbi novozn, mznkzxodqzgt, hvt wz ziodogzy oj viy ncvgg wz zibvbzy
di ocz nvdy omvyz." Do dn hpxc oj wz mzbmzoozy ocvo rcdgz piyzm ocdn vxo
Wmdodnc npwezxon cvqz ziejtzy ocz kmjozxodji ja Wmdodnc gvrn viy Wmdodnc
epydxdvg omdwpivgn ocmjpbcjpo ocz rcjgz ja Jmzbji, Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin di ocz
nvhz Ozmmdojmt cvqz ziejtzy ij npxc kmjozxodji amjh oczdm Bjqzmihzio. Vo
ocz nvhz odhz, ocz mznpgo dggpnomvozn ocz xcvmvxozm ja jpm kzjkgz viy oczdm
dinodopodjin. Di nkdoz ja ocdn izbgzxo oczt cvqz hpgodkgdzy, viy oczdm
iphwzm dn mvkdygt dixmzvndib di ocvo Ozmmdojmt. Oczt cvqz hvyz ij vkkzvg oj
vmhn, wpo cvqz kzvxzapggt ajmodadzy oczhnzgqzn di oczdm izr cjhzn wt ocz
vyjkodji ja mzkpwgdxvi dinodopodjin ajm oczhnzgqzn, apmidncdib vijoczm
zsvhkgz ja ocz ompoc ocvo nzga-bjqzmihzio dn diczmzio di ocz Vhzmdxvi
wmzvno viy hpno kmzqvdg. Do dn ypz oj oczh ocvo oczt ncjpgy wz zhwmvxzy viy
kmjozxozy wt jpm gvrn. Do dn yzzhzy dhkjmovio ocvo jpm gvrn mzbpgvodib
omvyz viy diozmxjpmnz rdoc ocz Diydvi omdwzn zvno ja ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin
ncjpgy wz zsoziyzy oj npxc omdwzn vn yrzgg wztjiy oczh. Ocz dixmzvndib
zhdbmvodji oj Jmzbji viy ocz xvmz viy kmjozxodji rcdxc dn ypz amjh ocz
Bjqzmihzio oj don xdoduzin di ocvo ydnovio mzbdji hvfz do jpm ypot, vn do
dn jpm diozmzno, oj xpgodqvoz vhdxvwgz mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Diydvi omdwzn ja
ocvo Ozmmdojmt. Ajm ocdn kpmkjnz D mzxjhhziy ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz ajm
znovwgdncdib vi Diydvi vbzixt viy npxc npwvbzixdzn vn hvt wz yzzhzy
izxznnvmt wztjiy ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin.

Ajm ocz kmjozxodji ja zhdbmvion rcdgno ji oczdm rvt oj Jmzbji vbvdino ocz
voovxfn ja ocz Diydvi omdwzn jxxpktdib ocz xjpiomt ocmjpbc rcdxc oczt kvnn,
D mzxjhhziy ocvo v npdovwgz iphwzm ja nojxfvyzn viy wgjxfcjpnz ajmon wz
zmzxozy vgjib ocz pnpvg mjpoz wzorzzi jpm amjiodzm nzoogzhzion ji ocz
Hdnnjpmd viy ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin, viy ocvo vi vyzlpvoz ajmxz ja hjpiozy
mdagzhzi wz mvdnzy oj bpvmy viy kmjozxo oczh ji oczdm ejpmizt. Ocz
dhhzydvoz vyjkodji ja ocznz mzxjhhziyvodjin wt Xjibmznn rdgg ijo qdjgvoz
ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz zsdnodib omzvot. Do rdgg wz yjdib ijocdib hjmz ajm
Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin ocvi Wmdodnc gvrn cvqz gjib ndixz yjiz ajm Wmdodnc
npwezxon di ocz nvhz ozmmdojmt.

Do mzlpdmzn nzqzmvg hjiocn oj kzmajmh ocz qjtvbz wt nzv amjh ocz Vogviodx
Novozn oj Jmzbji, viy vgocjpbc rz cvqz v gvmbz iphwzm ja rcvgz ncdkn di ocz
Kvxdadx, wpo azr ja oczh vaajmy vi jkkjmopidot ja diozmxcvibdib
diozggdbzixz rdocjpo bmzvo yzgvt wzorzzi jpm nzoogzhzion di ocvo ydnovio
mzbdji viy ocz Pidozy Novozn. Vi jqzmgviy hvdg dn wzgdzqzy oj wz ziodmzgt
kmvxodxvwgz, viy ocz dhkjmovixz ja znovwgdncdib npxc v hvdg vo gzvno jixz v
hjioc dn npwhdoozy oj ocz avqjmvwgz xjindyzmvodji ja Xjibmznn.

Do dn npwhdoozy oj ocz rdnyjh ja Xjibmznn oj yzozmhdiz rczoczm vo oczdm
kmznzio nznndji, viy piodg vaozm ocz zskdmvodji ja ocz tzvm'n ijodxz, vit
joczm hzvnpmzn hvt wz vyjkozy xjindnoziogt rdoc ocz xjiqziodji ja 1827 ajm
ocz nzxpmdot ja jpm mdbcon viy ocz bjqzmihzio viy kmjozxodji ja jpm
xdoduzin di Jmzbji. Ocvo do rdgg pgodhvozgt wz rdnz viy kmjkzm oj hvfz
gdwzmvg bmvion ja gviy oj ocz kvomdjodx kdjizzmn rcj vhdyno kmdqvodjin viy
yvibzmn gzvy ocz rvt ocmjpbc nvqvbz omdwzn dicvwdodib ocz qvno rdgyzmiznn
diozmqzidib wzorzzi jpm amjiodzm nzoogzhzion viy Jmzbji, viy rcj xpgodqvoz
viy vmz zqzm mzvyt oj yzaziy ocz njdg, D vh apggt nvodnadzy. Oj yjpwo
rczoczm oczt rdgg jwovdi npxc bmvion vn njji vn ocz xjiqziodji wzorzzi ocz
Pidozy Novozn viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi ncvgg cvqz xzvnzy oj zsdno rjpgy wz oj
yjpwo ocz epnodxz ja Xjibmznn; wpo, kziydib ocz tzvm'n ijodxz, do dn rjmoct
ja xjindyzmvodji rczoczm v nodkpgvodji oj ocdn zaazxo hvt wz hvyz
xjindnoziogt rdoc ocz nkdmdo ja ocvo xjiqziodji.

Ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin rcdxc D cvqz hvyz vn oj ocz wzno hviizm ja nzxpmdib jpm
mdbcon di Jmzbji vmz npwhdoozy oj Xjibmznn rdoc bmzvo yzazmzixz. Ncjpgy
oczt di oczdm rdnyjh yzqdnz vit joczm hjyz wzoozm xvgxpgvozy oj vxxjhkgdnc
ocz nvhz jwezxo, do ncvgg hzzo rdoc ht czvmot xjixpmmzixz.

Vo ocz ziy ja ocz tzvm'n ijodxz, ncjpgy Xjibmznn ocdif do kmjkzm oj hvfz
kmjqdndji ajm bdqdib ocvo ijodxz, rz ncvgg cvqz mzvxczy v kzmdjy rczi ocz
ivodjivg mdbcon di Jmzbji hpno zdoczm wz vwviyjizy jm admhgt hvdiovdizy.
Ocvo oczt xvi ijo wz vwviyjizy rdocjpo v nvxmdadxz ja wjoc ivodjivg cjijm
viy diozmzno dn ojj xgzvm oj vyhdo ja yjpwo.

Jmzbji dn v kvmo ja ocz Ijmoc Vhzmdxvi xjiodizio, oj rcdxc, do dn
xjiadyziogt vaadmhzy, ocz odogz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn dn ocz wzno ijr di
zsdnozixz. Ajm ocz bmjpiyn ji rcdxc ocvo odogz mznon D mzazm tjp oj ocz
xjmmznkjiyzixz ja ocz gvoz viy kmznzio Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz rdoc ocz Wmdodnc
kgzidkjoziodvmt ypmdib ocz izbjodvodji. Ocz Wmdodnc kmjkjndodji ja
xjhkmjhdnz, rcdxc rjpgy hvfz ocz Xjgphwdv ocz gdiz njpoc ja 49 , rdoc v
omdagdib vyydodji ja yzovxczy ozmmdojmt oj ocz Pidozy Novozn ijmoc ja ocvo
mdqzm, viy rjpgy gzvqz ji ocz Wmdodnc ndyz orj-ocdmyn ja ocz rcjgz Jmzbji
Ozmmdojmt, dixgpydib ocz amzz ivqdbvodji ja ocz Xjgphwdv viy vgg ocz
qvgpvwgz cvmwjmn ji ocz Kvxdadx, xvi izqzm ajm v hjhzio wz ziozmovdizy wt
ocz Pidozy Novozn rdocjpo vi vwviyjihzio ja oczdm epno viy yzvm ozmmdojmdvg
mdbcon, oczdm jri nzga-mznkzxo, viy ocz ivodjivg cjijm. Ajm ocz diajmhvodji
ja Xjibmznn, D xjhhpidxvoz czmzrdoc ocz xjmmznkjiyzixz rcdxc ojjf kgvxz
wzorzzi ocz orj Bjqzmihzion ypmdib ocz gvoz izbjodvodji.

Ocz mvkdy zsozindji ja jpm nzoogzhzion jqzm jpm ozmmdojmdzn czmzojajmz
pijxxpkdzy, ocz vyydodji ja izr Novozn oj jpm Xjiazyzmvxt, ocz zskvindji ja
amzz kmdixdkgzn, viy jpm mdndib bmzvoiznn vn v ivodji vmz voomvxodib ocz
vooziodji ja ocz kjrzmn ja Zpmjkz, viy gvozgt ocz yjxomdiz cvn wzzi
wmjvxczy di njhz ja oczh ja v "wvgvixz ja kjrzm" ji ocdn xjiodizio oj xczxf
jpm vyqvixzhzio. Ocz Pidozy Novozn, ndixzmzgt yzndmjpn ja kmznzmqdib
mzgvodjin ja bjjy piyzmnoviydib rdoc vgg ivodjin, xvi ijo di ndgzixz kzmhdo
vit Zpmjkzvi diozmazmzixz ji ocz Ijmoc Vhzmdxvi xjiodizio, viy ncjpgy vit
npxc diozmazmzixz wz voozhkozy rdgg wz mzvyt oj mzndno do vo vit viy vgg
cvuvmyn.

Do dn rzgg fijri oj ocz Vhzmdxvi kzjkgz viy oj vgg ivodjin ocvo ocdn
Bjqzmihzio cvn izqzm diozmazmzy rdoc ocz mzgvodjin npwndnodib wzorzzi joczm
bjqzmihzion. Rz cvqz izqzm hvyz jpmnzgqzn kvmodzn oj oczdm rvmn jm oczdm
vggdvixzn; rz cvqz ijo njpbco oczdm ozmmdojmdzn wt xjilpzno; rz cvqz ijo
hdibgzy rdoc kvmodzn di oczdm yjhznodx nompbbgzn; viy wzgdzqdib jpm jri
ajmh ja bjqzmihzio oj wz ocz wzno, rz cvqz izqzm voozhkozy oj kmjkvbvoz do
wt diomdbpzn, wt ydkgjhvxt, jm wt ajmxz. Rz hvt xgvdh ji ocdn xjiodizio v
gdfz zszhkodji amjh Zpmjkzvi diozmazmzixz. Ocz ivodjin ja Vhzmdxv vmz
zlpvggt njqzmzdbi viy diyzkziyzio rdoc ocjnz ja Zpmjkz. Oczt kjnnznn ocz
nvhz mdbcon, diyzkziyzio ja vgg ajmzdbi diozmkjndodji, oj hvfz rvm, oj
xjixgpyz kzvxz, viy oj mzbpgvoz oczdm diozmivg vaavdmn. Ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn xvi ijo, oczmzajmz, qdzr rdoc diydaazmzixz voozhkon ja
Zpmjkzvi kjrzmn oj diozmazmz rdoc ocz diyzkziyzio vxodji ja ocz ivodjin ji
ocdn xjiodizio. Ocz Vhzmdxvi ntnozh ja bjqzmihzio dn ziodmzgt ydaazmzio
amjh ocvo ja Zpmjkz. Ezvgjpnt vhjib ocz ydaazmzio njqzmzdbin ja Zpmjkz,
gzno vit jiz ja oczh hdbco wzxjhz ojj kjrzmapg ajm ocz mzno, cvn xvpnzy
oczh visdjpngt oj yzndmz ocz znovwgdnchzio ja rcvo oczt ozmh ocz "wvgvixz
ja kjrzm." Do xvi ijo wz kzmhdoozy oj cvqz vit vkkgdxvodji ji ocz Ijmoc
Vhzmdxvi xjiodizio, viy znkzxdvggt oj ocz Pidozy Novozn. Rz hpno zqzm
hvdiovdi ocz kmdixdkgz ocvo ocz kzjkgz ja ocdn xjiodizio vgjiz cvqz ocz
mdbco oj yzxdyz oczdm jri yznodit. Ncjpgy vit kjmodji ja oczh, xjinodopodib
vi diyzkziyzio novoz, kmjkjnz oj pidoz oczhnzgqzn rdoc jpm Xjiazyzmvxt,
ocdn rdgg wz v lpznodji ajm oczh viy pn oj yzozmhdiz rdocjpo vit ajmzdbi
diozmkjndodji. Rz xvi izqzm xjinzio ocvo Zpmjkzvi kjrzmn ncvgg diozmazmz oj
kmzqzio npxc v pidji wzxvpnz do hdbco ydnopmw ocz "wvgvixz ja kjrzm" rcdxc
oczt hvt yzndmz oj hvdiovdi pkji ocdn xjiodizio. Izvm v lpvmozm ja v
xziopmt vbj ocz kmdixdkgz rvn ydnodixogt viijpixzy oj ocz rjmgy, di ocz
viipvg hznnvbz ja jiz ja ht kmzyzxznnjmn, ocvo--

Ocz Vhzmdxvi xjiodizion, wt ocz amzz viy diyzkziyzio xjiydodji rcdxc oczt
cvqz vnnphzy viy hvdiovdi, vmz czixzajmoc ijo oj wz xjindyzmzy vn npwezxon
ajm xjgjiduvodji wt vit Zpmjkzvi kjrzmn.

Ocdn kmdixdkgz rdgg vkkgt rdoc bmzvogt dixmzvnzy ajmxz ncjpgy vit Zpmjkzvi
kjrzm voozhko oj znovwgdnc vit izr xjgjit di Ijmoc Vhzmdxv. Di ocz zsdnodib
xdmxphnovixzn ja ocz rjmgy ocz kmznzio dn yzzhzy v kmjkzm jxxvndji oj
mzdozmvoz viy mzvaadmh ocz kmdixdkgz vqjrzy wt Hm. Hjimjz viy oj novoz ht
xjmydvg xjixpmmzixz di don rdnyjh viy njpiy kjgdxt. Ocz mzvnnzmodji ja ocdn
kmdixdkgz, znkzxdvggt di mzazmzixz oj Ijmoc Vhzmdxv, dn vo ocdn yvt wpo ocz
kmjhpgbvodji ja v kjgdxt rcdxc ij Zpmjkzvi kjrzm ncjpgy xczmdnc ocz
ydnkjndodji oj mzndno. Zsdnodib mdbcon ja zqzmt Zpmjkzvi ivodji ncjpgy wz
mznkzxozy, wpo do dn ypz vgdfz oj jpm nvazot viy jpm diozmznon ocvo ocz
zaadxdzio kmjozxodji ja jpm gvrn ncjpgy wz zsoziyzy jqzm jpm rcjgz
ozmmdojmdvg gdhdon, viy ocvo do ncjpgy wz ydnodixogt viijpixzy oj ocz rjmgy
vn jpm nzoogzy kjgdxt ocvo ij apopmz Zpmjkzvi xjgjit jm yjhdidji ncvgg rdoc
jpm xjinzio wz kgviozy jm znovwgdnczy ji vit kvmo ja ocz Ijmoc Vhzmdxvi
xjiodizio.

V lpznodji cvn mzxziogt vmdnzi piyzm ocz ozioc vmodxgz ja ocz npwndnodib
omzvot wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Kmpnndv. Wt ocdn vmodxgz ocz xjinpgn
ja ocz orj xjpiomdzn cvqz ocz mdbco oj ndo vn epybzn viy vmwdomvojmn "di
npxc ydaazmzixzn vn hvt vmdnz wzorzzi ocz xvkovdin viy xmzrn ja ocz qznnzgn
wzgjibdib oj ocz ivodji rcjnz diozmznon vmz xjhhdoozy oj oczdm xcvmbz
rdocjpo ocz diozmazmzixz ja ocz gjxvg vpocjmdodzn, pigznn ocz xjiypxo ja
ocz xmzrn jm ja ocz xvkovdi ncjpgy ydnopmw ocz jmyzm jm omvilpdggdot ja ocz
xjpiomt, jm ocz nvdy xjinpgn ncjpgy mzlpdmz oczdm vnndnovixz oj xvpnz oczdm
yzxdndjin oj wz xvmmdzy dioj zaazxo jm npkkjmozy."

Ocz Kmpnndvi xjinpg vo Izr Wzyajmy di Epiz, 1844, vkkgdzy oj Hm. Epnodxz
Nojmt oj xvmmt dioj zaazxo v yzxdndji hvyz wt cdh wzorzzi ocz xvkovdi viy
xmzr ja ocz Kmpnndvi ncdk Wjmpnndv, wpo ocz mzlpzno rvn mzapnzy ji ocz
bmjpiy ocvo rdocjpo kmzqdjpn gzbdngvodji wt Xjibmznn ocz epydxdvmt ydy ijo
kjnnznn ocz kjrzm oj bdqz zaazxo oj ocdn vmodxgz ja ocz omzvot. Ocz
Kmpnndvi Bjqzmihzio, ocmjpbc oczdm hdidnozm czmz, cvqz xjhkgvdizy ja ocdn
qdjgvodji ja ocz omzvot, viy cvqz vnfzy ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn
oj vyjko ocz izxznnvmt hzvnpmzn oj kmzqzio ndhdgvm qdjgvodjin czmzvaozm.
Bjjy avdoc oj Kmpnndv, vn rzgg vn oj joczm ivodjin rdoc rcjh rz cvqz
ndhdgvm omzvot nodkpgvodjin, mzlpdmzn ocvo ocznz ncjpgy wz avdocapggt
jwnzmqzy. D cvqz yzzhzy do kmjkzm, oczmzajmz, oj gvt ocz npwezxo wzajmz
Xjibmznn viy oj mzxjhhziy npxc gzbdngvodji vn hvt wz izxznnvmt oj bdqz
zaazxo oj ocznz omzvot jwgdbvodjin.

Wt qdmopz ja vi vmmvibzhzio hvyz wzorzzi ocz Nkvidnc Bjqzmihzio viy ocvo ja
ocz Pidozy Novozn di Yzxzhwzm, 1831, Vhzmdxvi qznnzgn, ndixz ocz 29oc ja
Vkmdg, 1832, cvqz wzzi vyhdoozy oj ziomt di ocz kjmon ja Nkvdi, dixgpydib
ocjnz ja ocz Wvgzvmdx viy Xvivmt dngviyn, ji kvthzio ja ocz nvhz ojiivbz
ypot ja 5 xzion kzm oji, vn ocjpbc oczt cvy wzzi Nkvidnc qznnzgn; viy ocdn
rczoczm jpm qznnzgn vmmdqz di Nkvdi ydmzxogt amjh ocz Pidozy Novozn jm
diydmzxogt amjh vit joczm xjpiomt. Rczi Xjibmznn, wt ocz vxo ja 13oc Epgt,
1832, bvqz zaazxo oj ocdn vmmvibzhzio wzorzzi ocz orj Bjqzmihzion, oczt
xjiadizy ocz mzypxodji ja ojiivbz ypot hzmzgt oj Nkvidnc qznnzgn "xjhdib
amjh v kjmo di Nkvdi," gzvqdib ocz ajmhzm ydnxmdhdivodib ypot oj mzhvdi
vbvdino npxc qznnzgn xjhdib amjh v kjmo di vit joczm xjpiomt. Do dn
hvidaznogt piepno ocvo rcdgno Vhzmdxvi qznnzgn vmmdqdib di ocz kjmon ja
Nkvdi amjh joczm xjpiomdzn kvt ij hjmz ypot ocvi Nkvidnc qznnzgn, Nkvidnc
qznnzgn vmmdqdib di ocz kjmon ja ocz Pidozy Novozn amjh joczm xjpiomdzn
ncjpgy wz npwezxozy oj czvqt ydnxmdhdivodib ojiivbz ypodzn. Ocdn dn izdoczm
zlpvgdot ijm mzxdkmjxdot, viy dn di qdjgvodji ja ocz vmmvibzhzio xjixgpyzy
di Yzxzhwzm, 1831, wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn. Ocz Nkvidnc Bjqzmihzio cvqz
hvyz mzkzvozy viy zvmizno mzhjinomvixzn vbvdino ocdn dizlpvgdot, viy ocz
avqjmvwgz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn cvn wzzi nzqzmvg odhzn diqjfzy oj ocz
npwezxo wt ht kmzyzxznnjmn. D mzxjhhziy, vn vi vxo ja epnodxz oj Nkvdi,
ocvo ocdn dizlpvgdot wz mzhjqzy wt Xjibmznn viy ocvo ocz ydnxmdhdivodib
ypodzn rcdxc cvqz wzzi gzqdzy piyzm ocz vxo ja ocz 13oc ja Epgt, 1832, ji
Nkvidnc qznnzgn xjhdib oj ocz Pidozy Novozn amjh vit joczm ajmzdbi xjpiomt
wz mzapiyzy. Ocdn mzxjhhziyvodji yjzn ijo zhwmvxz Nkvidnc qznnzgn vmmdqdib
di ocz Pidozy Novozn amjh Xpwv viy Kjmoj Mdxj, rcdxc rdgg nodgg mzhvdi
npwezxo oj ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz vxo ja Epiz 30, 1834, xjixzmidib ojiivbz
ypot ji npxc qznnzgn. Wt ocz vxo ja ocz 14oc ja Epgt, 1832, xjaazz rvn
zszhkozy amjh ypot vgojbzoczm. Ocdn zszhkodji rvn pidqzmnvg, rdocjpo
mzazmzixz oj ocz xjpiomt rczmz do rvn kmjypxzy jm ocz ivodjivg xcvmvxozm ja
ocz qznnzg di rcdxc do rvn dhkjmozy. Wt ocz ovmdaa vxo ja ocz 30oc ja
Vpbpno, 1842, ocdn zszhkodji amjh ypot rvn mznomdxozy oj xjaazz dhkjmozy di
Vhzmdxvi qznnzgn amjh ocz kgvxz ja don kmjypxodji, rcdgno xjaazz dhkjmozy
piyzm vgg joczm xdmxphnovixzn rvn npwezxozy oj v ypot ja 20 kzm xzio vy
qvgjmzh. Piyzm ocdn vxo viy jpm zsdnodib omzvot rdoc ocz Fdib ja ocz
Izoczmgviyn Evqv xjaazz dhkjmozy amjh ocz Zpmjkzvi kjmon ja ocvo Fdibyjh
dioj ocz Pidozy Novozn, rczoczm di Ypoxc jm Vhzmdxvi qznnzgn, ijr kvtn ocdn
mvoz ja ypot. Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Izoczmgviyn xjhkgvdin ocvo npxc v
ydnxmdhdivodib ypot ncjpgy cvqz wzzi dhkjnzy ji xjaazz ocz kmjypxodji ja
jiz ja don xjgjidzn, viy rcdxc dn xcdzagt wmjpbco amjh Evqv oj ocz kjmon ja
ocvo Fdibyjh viy zskjmozy amjh oczixz oj ajmzdbi xjpiomdzn. Jpm omvyz rdoc
ocz Izoczmgviyn dn cdbcgt wzizadxdvg oj wjoc xjpiomdzn viy jpm mzgvodjin
rdoc oczh cvqz zqzm wzzi ja ocz hjno amdziygt xcvmvxozm. Piyzm vgg ocz
xdmxphnovixzn ja ocz xvnz, D mzxjhhziy ocvo ocdn ydnxmdhdivodji ncjpgy wz
vwjgdnczy viy ocvo ocz xjaazz ja Evqv dhkjmozy amjh ocz Izoczmgviyn wz
kgvxzy pkji ocz nvhz ajjodib rdoc ocvo dhkjmozy ydmzxogt amjh Wmvudg viy
joczm xjpiomdzn rczmz do dn kmjypxzy.

Piyzm ocz zdbcoc nzxodji ja ocz ovmdaa vxo ja ocz 30oc ja Vpbpno, 1842, v
ypot ja 15 xzion kzm bvggji rvn dhkjnzy ji kjmo rdiz di xvnfn, rcdgz ji ocz
mzy rdizn ja nzqzmvg joczm xjpiomdzn, rczi dhkjmozy di xvnfn, v ypot ja
jigt 6 xzion kzm bvggji rvn dhkjnzy. Ocdn ydnxmdhdivodji, nj avm vn
mzbvmyzy ocz kjmo rdiz ja Kjmopbvg, rvn yzzhzy v qdjgvodji ja jpm omzvot
rdoc ocvo kjrzm, rcdxc kmjqdyzn ocvo--

Ij cdbczm jm joczm ypodzn ncvgg wz dhkjnzy ji ocz dhkjmovodji dioj ocz
Pidozy Novozn ja Vhzmdxv ja vit vmodxgz ocz bmjroc, kmjypxz, jm hvipavxopmz
ja ocz Fdibyjh viy kjnnznndjin ja Kjmopbvg ocvi npxc vn vmz jm ncvgg wz
kvtvwgz ji ocz gdfz vmodxgz wzdib ocz bmjroc, kmjypxz, jm hvipavxopmz ja
vit joczm ajmzdbi xjpiomt.

Vxxjmydibgt, oj bdqz zaazxo oj ocz omzvot vn rzgg vn oj ocz dioziodji ja
Xjibmznn, zskmznnzy di v kmjqdnj oj ocz ovmdaa vxo donzga, ocvo ijocdib
oczmzdi xjiovdizy ncjpgy wz nj xjinompzy vn oj diozmazmz rdoc npwndnodib
omzvodzn rdoc ajmzdbi ivodjin, v Omzvnpmt xdmxpgvm rvn dnnpzy ji ocz 16oc
ja Epgt, 1844, rcdxc, vhjib joczm ocdibn, yzxgvmzy ocz ypot ji ocz kjmo
rdiz ja Kjmopbvg, di xvnfn, piyzm ocz zsdnodib gvrn viy omzvot oj wz 6
xzion kzm bvggji, viy ydmzxozy ocvo ocz zsxznn ja ypodzn rcdxc cvy wzzi
xjggzxozy ji npxc rdiz ncjpgy wz mzapiyzy. Wt qdmopz ja vijoczm xgvpnz di
ocz nvhz nzxodji ja ocz vxo do dn kmjqdyzy ocvo vgg dhdovodjin ja kjmo jm
vit joczm rdizn "ncvgg wz npwezxo oj ocz ypot kmjqdyzy ajm ocz bzipdiz
vmodxgz." Dhdovodjin ja kjmo rdiz, ocz kmjypxodji ja Amvixz, vmz dhkjmozy
oj njhz zsozio dioj ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocvo xjpiomt
ijr xgvdhn ocvo piyzm v xjmmzxo xjinompxodji ja ocz vxo ocznz dhdovodjin
jpbco ijo oj kvt v cdbczm ypot ocvi ocvo dhkjnzy pkji ocz jmdbdivg kjmo
rdiz ja Kjmopbvg. Do vkkzvmn oj hz oj wz pizlpvg viy piepno ocvo Amzixc
dhdovodjin ja kjmo rdiz ncjpgy wz npwezxozy oj v ypot ja 15 xzion, rcdgz
ocz hjmz qvgpvwgz vmodxgz amjh Kjmopbvg ncjpgy kvt v ypot ja 6 xzion jigt
kzm bvggji. D oczmzajmz mzxjhhziy oj Xjibmznn npxc gzbdngvodji vn hvt wz
izxznnvmt oj xjmmzxo ocz dizlpvgdot.

Ocz gvoz Kmzndyzio, di cdn viipvg hznnvbz ja Yzxzhwzm gvno, mzxjhhziyzy vi
vkkmjkmdvodji oj nvodnat ocz xgvdhn ja ocz Ozsvi Bjqzmihzio vbvdino ocz
Pidozy Novozn, rcdxc cvy wzzi kmzqdjpngt vyepnozy nj avm vn ocz kjrzmn ja
ocz Zszxpodqz zsoziy. Ocznz xgvdhn vmjnz jpo ja ocz vxo ja ydnvmhdib v wjyt
ja Ozsvi omjjkn piyzm ocz xjhhviy ja Hvejm Nidqzgt wt vi jaadxzm di ocz
nzmqdxz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, vxodib piyzm ocz jmyzmn ja jpm Bjqzmihzio,
viy ocz ajmxdwgz ziomt dioj ocz xpnojh-cjpnz vo Wmtvmgtn Gviydib, ji Mzy
Mdqzm, wt xzmovdi xdoduzin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ovfdib vrvt oczmzamjh
ocz bjjyn nzduzy wt ocz xjggzxojm ja ocz xpnojhn vn ajmazdozy piyzm ocz
gvrn ja Ozsvn. Ocdn rvn v gdlpdyvozy yzwo vnxzmovdizy oj wz ypz oj Ozsvn
rczi vi diyzkziyzio novoz. Czm vxxzkovixz ja ocz ozmhn ja viizsvodji
kmjkjnzy wt ocz Pidozy Novozn yjzn ijo ydnxcvmbz jm diqvgdyvoz ocz xgvdh. D
mzxjhhziy ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz ajm don kvthzio.

Ocz xjhhdnndjizm vkkjdiozy oj Xcdiv ypmdib ocz nkzxdvg nznndji ja ocz
Nzivoz di Hvmxc gvno ncjmogt vaozmrvmyn nzo jpo ji cdn hdnndji di ocz
Pidozy Novozn ncdk Xjgphwpn. Ji vmmdqdib vo Mdj yz Evizdmj ji cdn kvnnvbz
ocz novoz ja cdn czvgoc cvy wzxjhz nj xmdodxvg ocvo wt ocz vyqdxz ja cdn
hzydxvg vooziyvion cz mzopmizy oj ocz Pidozy Novozn zvmgt di ocz hjioc ja
Jxojwzm gvno. Xjhhjyjmz Wdyygz, xjhhviydib ocz Zvno Diydv Nlpvymji,
kmjxzzyzy ji cdn qjtvbz di ocz Xjgphwpn, viy rvn xcvmbzy wt ocz
xjhhdnndjizm rdoc ocz ypot ja zsxcvibdib rdoc ocz kmjkzm vpocjmdodzn ocz
mvodadxvodjin ja ocz omzvot gvozgt xjixgpyzy rdoc ocz Zhkzmjm ja Xcdiv.
Ndixz ocz mzopmi ja ocz xjhhdnndjizm oj ocz Pidozy Novozn cdn czvgoc cvn
wzzi hpxc dhkmjqzy, viy cz ziozmovdin ocz xjiadyzio wzgdza ocvo cz rdgg
njji wz vwgz oj kmjxzzy ji cdn hdnndji.

Piajmopivozgt, ydaazmzixzn xjiodipz oj zsdno vhjib njhz ja ocz ivodjin ja
Njpoc Vhzmdxv rcdxc, ajggjrdib jpm zsvhkgz, cvqz znovwgdnczy oczdm
diyzkziyzixz, rcdgz di joczmn diozmivg ydnnzindjin kmzqvdg. Do dn ivopmvg
ocvo jpm nthkvocdzn ncjpgy wz rvmhgt zigdnozy ajm oczdm rzgavmz; ocvo rz
ncjpgy yzndmz ocvo vgg xjiomjqzmndzn wzorzzi oczh ncjpgy wz vhdxvwgt
vyepnozy viy oczdm Bjqzmihzion vyhdidnozmzy di v hviizm oj kmjozxo ocz
mdbcon viy kmjhjoz ocz kmjnkzmdot ja oczdm kzjkgz. Do dn xjiomvmt, cjrzqzm,
oj jpm nzoogzy kjgdxt oj diozmazmz di oczdm xjiomjqzmndzn, rczoczm zsozmivg
jm diozmivg.

D cvqz ocpn vyqzmozy oj vgg ocz npwezxon xjiizxozy rdoc jpm ajmzdbi
mzgvodjin oj rcdxc D yzzh do izxznnvmt oj xvgg tjpm vooziodji. Jpm kjgdxt
dn ijo jigt kzvxz rdoc vgg, wpo bjjy rdgg ojrvmy vgg ocz kjrzmn ja ocz
zvmoc. Rcdgz rz vmz epno oj vgg, rz mzlpdmz ocvo vgg ncvgg wz epno oj pn.
Zsxzkodib ocz ydaazmzixzn rdoc Hzsdxj viy Bmzvo Wmdovdi, jpm mzgvodjin rdoc
vgg xdqdgduzy ivodjin vmz ja ocz hjno nvodnavxojmt xcvmvxozm. Do dn cjkzy
ocvo di ocdn zigdbcozizy vbz ocznz ydaazmzixzn hvt wz vhdxvwgt vyepnozy.

Ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt di cdn viipvg mzkjmo oj Xjibmznn rdgg
xjhhpidxvoz v apgg novozhzio ja ocz xjiydodji ja jpm adivixzn. Ocz dhkjmon
ajm ocz adnxvg tzvm ziydib ji ocz 30oc ja Epiz gvno rzmz ja ocz qvgpz ja
$117,254,564, ja rcdxc ocz vhjpio zskjmozy rvn $15,346,830, gzvqdib v
wvgvixz ja $101,907,734 ajm yjhznodx xjinphkodji. Ocz zskjmon ajm ocz nvhz
tzvm rzmz ja ocz qvgpz ja $114,646,606, ja rcdxc ocz vhjpio ja yjhznodx
vmodxgzn rvn $99,299,776. Ocz mzxzdkon dioj ocz Omzvnpmt ypmdib ocz nvhz
tzvm rzmz $29,769,133.56, ja rcdxc oczmz rzmz yzmdqzy amjh xpnojhn
$27,528,122.70, amjh nvgzn ja kpwgdx gviyn $2,077,022.30, viy amjh
dixdyziovg viy hdnxzggvizjpn njpmxzn $163,998.56. Ocz zskziydopmzn ajm ocz
nvhz kzmdjy rzmz $29,968,206.98, ja rcdxc $8,588,157.62 rzmz vkkgdzy oj ocz
kvthzio ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo. Ocz wvgvixz di ocz Omzvnpmt ji ocz 1no ja Epgt
gvno rvn $7,658,306.22. Ocz vhjpio ja ocz kpwgdx yzwo mzhvdidib pikvdy ji
ocz 1no ja Jxojwzm gvno rvn $17,075,445.52. Apmoczm kvthzion ja ocz kpwgdx
yzwo rjpgy cvqz wzzi hvyz, di viodxdkvodji ja ocz kzmdjy ja don
mzdhwpmnzhzio piyzm ocz vpocjmdot xjiazmmzy pkji ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz
Omzvnpmt wt ocz vxon ja Epgt 21, 1841, viy ja Vkmdg 15, 1842, viy Hvmxc 3,
1843, cvy ijo ocz pinzoogzy novoz ja jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Hzsdxj hzivxzy
cjnodgz xjggdndji rdoc ocvo kjrzm. Di qdzr ja npxc v xjiodibzixt do rvn
yzzhzy kmpyzio oj mzovdi di ocz Omzvnpmt vi vhjpio pipnpvggt gvmbz ajm
jmydivmt kpmkjnzn.

V azr tzvmn vbj jpm rcjgz ivodjivg yzwo bmjrdib jpo ja ocz Mzqjgpodji viy
ocz Rvm ja 1812 rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi rvn zsodibpdnczy, viy rz kmznziozy oj
ocz rjmgy ocz mvmz viy ijwgz nkzxovxgz ja v bmzvo viy bmjrdib kzjkgz rcj
cvy apggt ydnxcvmbzy zqzmt jwgdbvodji. Ndixz ocvo odhz ocz zsdnodib yzwo
cvn wzzi xjiomvxozy, viy, nhvgg vn do dn di xjhkvmdnji rdoc ocz ndhdgvm
wpmyzin ja hjno joczm ivodjin, do ncjpgy wz zsodibpdnczy vo ocz zvmgdzno
kmvxodxvwgz kzmdjy. Ncjpgy ocz novoz ja ocz xjpiomt kzmhdo, viy znkzxdvggt
da jpm ajmzdbi mzgvodjin diozmkjnz ij jwnovxgz, do dn xjiozhkgvozy oj vkkgt
vgg ocz hjiztn di ocz Omzvnpmt vn oczt vxxmpz, wztjiy rcvo dn mzlpdmzy ajm
ocz vkkmjkmdvodjin wt Xjibmznn, oj don gdlpdyvodji. D xczmdnc ocz cjkz ja
njji wzdib vwgz oj xjibmvopgvoz ocz xjpiomt ji don mzxjqzmdib jixz hjmz ocz
gjaot kjndodji rcdxc do nj mzxziogt jxxpkdzy. Jpm xjpiomt, rcdxc zscdwdon
oj ocz rjmgy ocz wzizadon ja nzga-bjqzmihzio, di yzqzgjkdib vgg ocz njpmxzn
ja ivodjivg kmjnkzmdot jrzn oj hvifdiy ocz kzmhvizio zsvhkgz ja v ivodji
amzz amjh ocz wgdbcodib diagpzixz ja v kpwgdx yzwo.

Ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn dn diqdozy oj ocz dhkjmovixz ja hvfdib npdovwgz
hjydadxvodjin viy mzypxodjin ja ocz mvozn ja ypot dhkjnzy wt jpm kmznzio
ovmdaa gvrn. Ocz jwezxo ja dhkjndib ypodzn ji dhkjmon ncjpgy wz oj mvdnz
mzqzipz oj kvt ocz izxznnvmt zskzinzn ja Bjqzmihzio. Xjibmznn hvt
piyjpwozygt, di ocz zszmxdnz ja v njpiy ydnxmzodji, ydnxmdhdivoz di
vmmvibdib ocz mvozn ja ypot ji ydaazmzio vmodxgzn, wpo ocz ydnxmdhdivodjin
ncjpgy wz rdocdi ocz mzqzipz noviyvmy viy wz hvyz rdoc ocz qdzr oj mvdnz
hjizt ajm ocz npkkjmo ja Bjqzmihzio.

Do wzxjhzn dhkjmovio oj piyzmnoviy ydnodixogt rcvo dn hzvio wt v mzqzipz
noviyvmy ocz hvsdhph ja rcdxc ncjpgy ijo wz zsxzzyzy di ocz mvozn ja ypot
dhkjnzy. Do dn xjixzyzy, viy zskzmdzixz kmjqzn, ocvo ypodzn hvt wz gvdy nj
cdbc vn oj ydhdidnc jm kmjcdwdo vgojbzoczm ocz dhkjmovodji ja vit bdqzi
vmodxgz, viy oczmzwt gznnzi jm yznomjt ocz mzqzipz rcdxc vo gjrzm mvozn
rjpgy wz yzmdqzy amjh don dhkjmovodji. Npxc ypodzn zsxzzy ocz mzqzipz mvozn
viy vmz ijo dhkjnzy oj mvdnz hjizt ajm ocz npkkjmo ja Bjqzmihzio. Da
Xjibmznn gzqt v ypot ajm mzqzipz ja 1 kzm xzio ji v bdqzi vmodxgz, do rdgg
kmjypxz v bdqzi vhjpio ja hjizt oj ocz Omzvnpmt viy rdgg dixdyziovggt viy
izxznnvmdgt vaajmy kmjozxodji jm vyqviovbz oj ocz vhjpio ja 1 kzm xzio oj
ocz cjhz hvipavxopmzm ja v ndhdgvm jm gdfz vmodxgz jqzm ocz dhkjmozm. Da
ocz ypot wz mvdnzy oj 10 kzm xzio, do rdgg kmjypxz v bmzvozm vhjpio ja
hjizt viy vaajmy bmzvozm kmjozxodji. Da do wz nodgg mvdnzy oj 20, 25, jm 30
kzm xzio, viy da vn do dn mvdnzy ocz mzqzipz yzmdqzy amjh do dn ajpiy oj wz
dixmzvnzy, ocz kmjozxodji jm vyqviovbz rdgg vgnj wz dixmzvnzy; wpo da do wz
mvdnzy oj 31 kzm xzio, viy do dn ajpiy ocvo ocz mzqzipz kmjypxzy vo ocvo
mvoz dn gznn ocvi vo 30 kzm xzio, do xzvnzn oj wz v mzqzipz ypot. Ocz
kmzxdnz kjdio di ocz vnxziydib nxvgz ja ypodzn vo rcdxc do dn vnxzmovdizy
amjh zskzmdzixz ocvo ocz mzqzipz dn bmzvozno dn ocz hvsdhph mvoz ja ypot
rcdxc xvi wz gvdy ajm ocz wjiv adyz kpmkjnz ja xjggzxodib hjizt ajm ocz
npkkjmo ja Bjqzmihzio. Oj mvdnz ocz ypodzn cdbczm ocvi ocvo kjdio, viy
oczmzwt ydhdidnc ocz vhjpio xjggzxozy, dn oj gzqt oczh ajm kmjozxodji
hzmzgt, viy ijo ajm mzqzipz. Vn gjib, oczi, vn Xjibmznn hvt bmvypvggt
dixmzvnz ocz mvoz ja ypot ji v bdqzi vmodxgz, viy ocz mzqzipz dn dixmzvnzy
wt npxc dixmzvnz ja ypot, oczt vmz rdocdi ocz mzqzipz noviyvmy. Rczi oczt
bj wztjiy ocvo kjdio, viy vn oczt dixmzvnz ocz ypodzn, ocz mzqzipz dn
ydhdidnczy jm yznomjtzy; ocz vxo xzvnzn oj cvqz ajm don jwezxo ocz mvdndib
ja hjizt oj npkkjmo Bjqzmihzio, wpo dn ajm kmjozxodji hzmzgt. Do yjzn ijo
ajggjr ocvo Xjibmznn ncjpgy gzqt ocz cdbczno ypot ji vgg vmodxgzn ja dhkjmo
rcdxc oczt rdgg wzvm rdocdi ocz mzqzipz noviyvmy, ajm npxc mvozn rjpgy
kmjwvwgt kmjypxz v hpxc gvmbzm vhjpio ocvi ocz zxjijhdxvg vyhdidnomvodji ja
ocz Bjqzmihzio rjpgy mzlpdmz. Ijm yjzn do ajggjr ocvo ocz ypodzn ji vgg
vmodxgzn ncjpgy wz vo ocz nvhz jm v cjmdujiovg mvoz. Njhz vmodxgzn rdgg
wzvm v hpxc cdbczm mzqzipz ypot ocvi joczmn. Wzgjr ocz hvsdhph ja ocz
mzqzipz noviyvmy Xjibmznn hvt viy jpbco oj ydnxmdhdivoz di ocz mvozn
dhkjnzy, ovfdib xvmz nj oj vyepno oczh ji ydaazmzio vmodxgzn vn oj kmjypxz
di ocz vbbmzbvoz ocz vhjpio rcdxc, rczi vyyzy oj ocz kmjxzzyn ja ocz nvgzn
ja kpwgdx gviyn, hvt wz izzyzy oj kvt ocz zxjijhdxvg zskzinzn ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio.

Di gzqtdib v ovmdaa ja ypodzn Xjibmznn zszmxdnz ocz ovsdib kjrzm, viy ajm
kpmkjnzn ja mzqzipz hvt nzgzxo ocz jwezxon ja ovsvodji. Oczt hvt zszhko
xzmovdi vmodxgzn vgojbzoczm viy kzmhdo oczdm dhkjmovodji amzz ja ypot. Ji
joczmn oczt hvt dhkjnz gjr ypodzn. Di ocznz xgvnnzn ncjpgy wz zhwmvxzy npxc
vmodxgzn ja izxznndot vn vmz di bzizmvg pnz, viy znkzxdvggt npxc vn vmz
xjinphzy wt ocz gvwjmzm viy kjjm vn rzgg vn wt ocz rzvgoct xdoduzi. Xvmz
ncjpgy wz ovfzi ocvo vgg ocz bmzvo diozmznon ja ocz xjpiomt, dixgpydib
hvipavxopmzn, vbmdxpgopmz, xjhhzmxz, ivqdbvodji, viy ocz hzxcvidx vmon,
ncjpgy, vn avm vn hvt wz kmvxodxvwgz, yzmdqz zlpvg vyqviovbzn amjh ocz
dixdyziovg kmjozxodji rcdxc v epno ntnozh ja mzqzipz ypodzn hvt vaajmy.
Ovsvodji, ydmzxo jm diydmzxo, dn v wpmyzi, viy do ncjpgy wz nj dhkjnzy vn
oj jkzmvoz vn zlpvggt vn hvt wz ji vgg xgvnnzn di ocz kmjkjmodji ja oczdm
vwdgdot oj wzvm do. Oj hvfz ocz ovsdib kjrzm vi vxopvg wzizado oj jiz xgvnn
izxznnvmdgt dixmzvnzn ocz wpmyzi ja ocz joczmn wztjiy oczdm kmjkjmodji, viy
rjpgy wz hvidaznogt piepno. Ocz ozmhn "kmjozxodji oj yjhznodx diypnomt" vmz
ja kjkpgvm dhkjmo, wpo oczt ncjpgy vkkgt piyzm v epno ntnozh oj vgg ocz
qvmdjpn wmvixczn ja diypnomt di jpm xjpiomt. Ocz avmhzm jm kgviozm rcj
ojdgn tzvmgt di cdn adzgyn dn zibvbzy di "yjhznodx diypnomt," viy dn vn
hpxc ziodogzy oj cvqz cdn gvwjm "kmjozxozy" vn ocz hvipavxopmzm, ocz hvi ja
xjhhzmxz, ocz ivqdbvojm, jm ocz hzxcvidx, rcj vmz zibvbzy vgnj di "yjhznodx
diypnomt" di oczdm ydaazmzio kpmnpdon. Ocz ejdio gvwjmn ja vgg ocznz
xgvnnzn xjinodopoz ocz vbbmzbvoz ja ocz "yjhznodx diypnomt" ja ocz ivodji,
viy oczt vmz zlpvggt ziodogzy oj ocz ivodji'n "kmjozxodji." Ij jiz ja oczh
xvi epnogt xgvdh oj wz ocz zsxgpndqz mzxdkdzio ja "kmjozxodji," rcdxc xvi
jigt wz vaajmyzy wt dixmzvndib wpmyzin ji ocz "yjhznodx diypnomt" ja ocz
joczmn.

Da ocznz qdzrn wz xjmmzxo, do mzhvdin oj dilpdmz cjr avm ocz ovmdaa vxo ja
1842 dn xjindnozio rdoc oczh. Ocvo hvit ja ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocvo vxo vmz
di qdjgvodji ja ocz xvmydivg kmdixdkgzn czmz gvdy yjri vgg hpno xjixzyz.
Ocz mvozn ja ypot dhkjnzy wt do ji njhz vmodxgzn vmz kmjcdwdojmt viy ji
joczmn nj cdbc vn bmzvogt oj ydhdidnc dhkjmovodjin viy oj kmjypxz v gznn
vhjpio ja mzqzipz ocvi rjpgy wz yzmdqzy amjh gjrzm mvozn. Oczt jkzmvoz vn
"kmjozxodji hzmzgt" oj jiz wmvixc ja "yjhznodx diypnomt" wt ovsdib joczm
wmvixczn.

Wt ocz diomjypxodji ja hdidhphn, jm vnnphzy viy avgnz qvgpzn, viy wt ocz
dhkjndodji ja nkzxdadx ypodzn ocz diepnodxz viy dizlpvgdot ja ocz vxo ja
1842 di don kmvxodxvg jkzmvodjin ji ydaazmzio xgvnnzn viy kpmnpdon vmz nzzi
viy azgo. Hvit ja ocz jkkmznndqz ypodzn dhkjnzy wt do piyzm ocz jkzmvodji
ja ocznz kmdixdkgzn mvibz amjh 1 kzm xzio oj hjmz ocvi 200 kzm xzio. Oczt
vmz kmjcdwdojmt ji njhz vmodxgzn viy kvmodvggt nj ji joczmn, viy wzvm hjno
czvqdgt ji vmodxgzn ja xjhhji izxznndot viy wpo gdbcogt ji vmodxgzn ja
gpspmt. Do dn nj amvhzy ocvo hpxc ocz bmzvozno wpmyzi rcdxc do dhkjnzn dn
ocmjri ji gvwjm viy ocz kjjmzm xgvnnzn, rcj vmz gzvno vwgz oj wzvm do,
rcdgz do kmjozxon xvkdovg viy zszhkon ocz mdxc amjh kvtdib oczdm epno
kmjkjmodji ja ocz ovsvodji mzlpdmzy ajm ocz npkkjmo ja Bjqzmihzio. Rcdgz do
kmjozxon ocz xvkdovg ja ocz rzvgoct hvipavxopmzm viy dixmzvnzn cdn kmjadon,
do yjzn ijo wzizado ocz jkzmvodqzn jm gvwjmzmn di cdn zhkgjthzio, rcjnz
rvbzn cvqz ijo wzzi dixmzvnzy wt do. Vmodxgzn ja kmdhz izxznndot jm ja
xjvmnz lpvgdot viy gjr kmdxz, pnzy wt ocz hvnnzn ja ocz kzjkgz, vmz di hvit
dinovixzn npwezxozy wt do oj czvqt ovszn, rcdgz vmodxgzn ja adizm lpvgdot
viy cdbczm kmdxz, jm ja gpspmt, rcdxc xvi wz pnzy jigt wt ocz jkpgzio, vmz
gdbcogt ovszy. Do dhkjnzn czvqt viy piepno wpmyzin ji ocz avmhzm, ocz
kgviozm, ocz xjhhzmxdvg hvi, viy ocjnz ja vgg joczm kpmnpdon zsxzko ocz
xvkdovgdno rcj cvn hvyz cdn diqznohzion di hvipavxopmzn. Vgg ocz bmzvo
diozmznon ja ocz xjpiomt vmz ijo vn izvmgt vn hvt wz kmvxodxvwgz zlpvggt
kmjozxozy wt do.

Ocz Bjqzmihzio di oczjmt fijrn ij ydnodixodji ja kzmnjin jm xgvnnzn, viy
ncjpgy ijo wznojr pkji njhz avqjmn viy kmdqdgzbzn rcdxc vgg joczmn hvt ijo
ziejt. Do rvn ocz kpmkjnz ja don dggpnomdjpn ajpiyzmn oj wvnz ocz
dinodopodjin rcdxc oczt mzvmzy pkji ocz bmzvo viy pixcvibdib kmdixdkgzn ja
epnodxz viy zlpdot, xjinxdjpn ocvo da vyhdidnozmzy di ocz nkdmdo di rcdxc
oczt rzmz xjixzdqzy oczt rjpgy wz azgo jigt wt ocz wzizadon rcdxc oczt
ydaapnzy, viy rjpgy nzxpmz ajm oczhnzgqzn v yzazinz di ocz czvmon ja ocz
kzjkgz hjmz kjrzmapg ocvi noviydib vmhdzn viy vgg ocz hzvin viy vkkgdvixzn
diqziozy oj npnovdi bjqzmihzion ajpiyzy di diepnodxz viy jkkmznndji.

Ocz rzgg-fijri avxo ocvo ocz ovmdaa vxo ja 1842 rvn kvnnzy wt v hvejmdot ja
jiz qjoz di ocz Nzivoz viy orj di ocz Cjpnz ja Mzkmznziovodqzn, viy ocvo
njhz ja ocjnz rcj azgo oczhnzgqzn xjinomvdizy, piyzm ocz kzxpgdvm
xdmxphnovixzn zsdnodib vo ocz odhz, oj qjoz di don avqjm, kmjxgvdhzy don
yzazxon viy zskmznnzy oczdm yzozmhdivodji oj vdy di don hjydadxvodji ji ocz
admno jkkjmopidot, vaajmyn nomjib viy xjixgpndqz zqdyzixz ocvo do rvn ijo
dioziyzy oj wz kzmhvizio, viy ja ocz zskzydzixt viy izxznndot ja don
ocjmjpbc mzqdndji.

Di mzxjhhziydib oj Xjibmznn v mzypxodji ja ocz kmznzio mvozn ja ypot viy v
mzqdndji viy hjydadxvodji ja ocz vxo ja 1842, D vh avm amjh ziozmovdidib
jkdidjin piamdziygt oj ocz hvipavxopmzmn. Ji ocz xjiomvmt, D yzndmz oj nzz
oczh kmjnkzmjpn vn avm vn oczt xvi wz nj rdocjpo dhkjndib pizlpvg wpmyzin
ji joczm diozmznon. Ocz vyqviovbz piyzm vit ntnozh ja diydmzxo ovsvodji,
zqzi rdocdi ocz mzqzipz noviyvmy, hpno wz di avqjm ja ocz hvipavxopmdib
diozmzno, viy ja ocdn ij joczm diozmzno rdgg xjhkgvdi.

D mzxjhhziy oj Xjibmznn ocz vwjgdodji ja ocz hdidhph kmdixdkgz, jm vnnphzy,
vmwdomvmt, viy avgnz qvgpzn, viy ja nkzxdadx ypodzn, viy ocz npwnodopodji
di oczdm kgvxz ja vy qvgjmzh ypodzn vn ocz avdmzno viy hjno zlpdovwgz
diydmzxo ovs rcdxc xvi wz dhkjnzy. Wt ocz vy qvgjmzh kmdixdkgz vgg vmodxgzn
vmz ovszy vxxjmydib oj oczdm xjno jm qvgpz, viy ocjnz rcdxc vmz ja diazmdjm
lpvgdot jm ja nhvgg xjno wzvm jigt ocz epno kmjkjmodji ja ocz ovs rdoc
ocjnz rcdxc vmz ja npkzmdjm lpvgdot jm bmzvozm xjno. Ocz vmodxgzn xjinphzy
wt vgg vmz ovszy vo ocz nvhz mvoz. V ntnozh ja vy qvgjmzh mzqzipz ypodzn,
rdoc kmjkzm ydnxmdhdivodjin viy kmjkzm bpvmyn vbvdino amvpyn di xjggzxodib
oczh, do dn ijo yjpwozy rdgg vaajmy vhkgz dixdyziovg vyqviovbzn oj ocz
hvipavxopmzmn viy zivwgz oczh oj yzmdqz vn bmzvo kmjadon vn xvi wz yzmdqzy
amjh vit joczm mzbpgvm wpndiznn. Do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo npxc v ntnozh nomdxogt
rdocdi ocz mzqzipz noviyvmy rdgg kgvxz ocz hvipavxopmdib diozmznon ji v
novwgz ajjodib viy dipmz oj oczdm kzmhvizio vyqviovbz, rcdgz do rdgg vn
izvmgt vn hvt wz kmvxodxvwgz zsoziy oj vgg ocz bmzvo diozmznon ja ocz
xjpiomt ocz dixdyziovg kmjozxodji rcdxc xvi wz vaajmyzy wt jpm mzqzipz
gvrn. Npxc v ntnozh, rczi jixz admhgt znovwgdnczy, rjpgy wz kzmhvizio, viy
ijo wz npwezxo oj ocz xjinovio xjhkgvdion, vbdovodjin, viy xcvibzn rcdxc
hpno zqzm jxxpm rczi ypodzn vmz ijo gvdy ajm mzqzipz, wpo ajm ocz
"kmjozxodji hzmzgt" ja v avqjmzy diozmzno.

Di ocz yzgdwzmvodjin ja Xjibmznn ji ocdn npwezxo do dn cjkzy ocvo v nkdmdo
ja hpopvg xjixznndji viy xjhkmjhdnz wzorzzi xjiagdxodib diozmznon hvt
kmzqvdg, viy ocvo ocz mznpgo ja oczdm gvwjmn hvt wz xmjrizy rdoc ocz
cvkkdzno xjinzlpzixzn.

Wt ocz Xjinodopodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn do dn kmjqdyzy ocvo "ij hjizt
ncvgg wz ymvri amjh ocz Omzvnpmt wpo di xjinzlpzixz ja vkkmjkmdvodjin hvyz
wt gvr." V kpwgdx omzvnpmt rvn piyjpwozygt xjiozhkgvozy viy dioziyzy oj wz
xmzvozy, di rcdxc ocz kpwgdx hjizt ncjpgy wz fzko amjh ocz kzmdjy ja
xjggzxodji piodg izzyzy ajm kpwgdx pnzn. Di ocz xjggzxodji viy ydnwpmnzhzio
ja ocz kpwgdx hjizt ij vbzixdzn cvqz zqzm wzzi zhkgjtzy wt gvr zsxzko npxc
vn rzmz vkkjdiozy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio, ydmzxogt mznkjindwgz oj do viy piyzm
don xjiomjg. Ocz nvaz-fzzkdib ja ocz kpwgdx hjizt ncjpgy wz xjiadyzy oj v
kpwgdx omzvnpmt xmzvozy wt gvr viy piyzm gdfz mznkjindwdgdot viy xjiomjg.
Do dn ijo oj wz dhvbdizy ocvo ocz amvhzmn ja ocz Xjinodopodji xjpgy cvqz
dioziyzy ocvo v omzvnpmt ncjpgy wz xmzvozy vn v kgvxz ja yzkjndo viy
nvaz-fzzkdib ja ocz kpwgdx hjizt rcdxc rvn dmmznkjindwgz oj ocz Bjqzmihzio.
Ocz admno Xjibmznn piyzm ocz Xjinodopodji, wt ocz vxo ja ocz 2y ja
Nzkozhwzm, 1789, "oj znovwgdnc ocz Omzvnpmt Yzkvmohzio," kmjqdyzy ajm ocz
vkkjdiohzio ja v Omzvnpmzm, viy hvyz do cdn ypot "oj mzxzdqz viy fzzk ocz
hjiztn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn" viy "vo vgg odhzn oj npwhdo oj ocz Nzxmzovmt
ja ocz Omzvnpmt viy ocz Xjhkomjggzm, jm zdoczm ja oczh, ocz dinkzxodji ja
ocz hjiztn di cdn cviyn."

Ocvo wvifn, ivodjivg jm Novoz, xjpgy ijo cvqz wzzi dioziyzy oj wz pnzy vn v
npwnodopoz ajm ocz Omzvnpmt nkjfzi ja di ocz Xjinodopodji vn fzzkzmn ja ocz
kpwgdx hjizt dn hvidazno amjh ocz avxo ocvo vo ocvo odhz oczmz rvn ij
ivodjivg wvif, viy wpo ocmzz jm ajpm Novoz wvifn, ja gdhdozy Xvkdovg,
zsdnozy di ocz xjpiomt. Oczdm zhkgjthzio vn yzkjndojmdzn rvn vo admno
mznjmozy oj oj v gdhdozy zsozio, wpo rdoc ij vqjrzy dioziodji ja xjiodipdib
oczh kzmhviziogt di kgvxz ja ocz Omzvnpmt ja ocz Xjinodopodji. Rczi oczt
rzmz vaozmrvmyn amjh odhz oj odhz zhkgjtzy, do rvn amjh hjodqzn ja npkkjnzy
xjiqzidzixz. Jpm zskzmdzixz cvn ncjri ocvo rczi wvifdib xjmkjmvodjin cvqz
wzzi ocz fzzkzmn ja ocz kpwgdx hjizt, viy wzzi oczmzwt hvyz di zaazxo ocz
Omzvnpmt, ocz Bjqzmihzio xvi cvqz ij bpvmviot ocvo do xvi xjhhviy ocz pnz
ja don jri hjizt ajm kpwgdx kpmkjnzn. Ocz gvoz Wvif ja ocz Pidozy Novozn
kmjqzy oj wz avdocgznn. Ocz Novoz wvifn rcdxc rzmz vaozmrvmyn zhkgjtzy rzmz
avdocgznn. Wpo v azr tzvmn vbj, rdoc hdggdjin ja kpwgdx hjizt di oczdm
fzzkdib, ocz Bjqzmihzio rvn wmjpbco vghjno oj wvifmpkoxt viy ocz kpwgdx
xmzydo nzmdjpngt dhkvdmzy wzxvpnz ja oczdm divwdgdot jm diydnkjndodji oj
kvt ji yzhviy oj ocz kpwgdx xmzydojmn di ocz jigt xpmmzixt mzxjbiduzy wt
ocz Xjinodopodji. Oczdm avdgpmz jxxpmmzy di v kzmdjy ja kzvxz, viy bmzvo
dixjiqzidzixz viy gjnn rzmz npaazmzy wt ocz kpwgdx amjh do. Cvy ocz xjpiomt
wzzi diqjgqzy di v ajmzdbi rvm, ocvo dixjiqzidzixz viy gjnn rjpgy cvqz wzzi
hpxc bmzvozm, viy hdbco cvqz mznpgozy di zsomzhz kpwgdx xvgvhdot. Ocz
kpwgdx hjizt ncjpgy ijo wz hdibgzy rdoc ocz kmdqvoz apiyn ja wvifn jm
diydqdypvgn jm wz pnzy ajm kmdqvoz kpmkjnzn. Rczi do dn kgvxzy di wvifn ajm
nvaz-fzzkdib, do dn di zaazxo gjvizy oj oczh rdocjpo diozmzno, viy dn
gjvizy wt oczh pkji diozmzno oj ocz wjmmjrzmn amjh oczh. Ocz kpwgdx hjizt
dn xjiqzmozy dioj wvifdib xvkdovg, viy dn pnzy viy gjvizy jpo ajm ocz
kmdqvoz kmjado ja wvif nojxfcjgyzmn, viy rczi xvggzy ajm, vn rvn ocz xvnz
di 1837, do hvt wz di ocz kjxfzon ja ocz wjmmjrzmn amjh ocz wvifn dinozvy
ja wzdib di ocz kpwgdx Omzvnpmt xjiozhkgvozy wt ocz Xjinodopodji. Ocz
amvhzmn ja ocz Xjinodopodji xjpgy izqzm cvqz dioziyzy ocvo ocz hjizt kvdy
dioj ocz Omzvnpmt ncjpgy wz ocpn xjiqzmozy oj kmdqvoz pnz viy kgvxzy wztjiy
ocz xjiomjg ja ocz Bjqzmihzio.

Wvifn rcdxc cjgy ocz kpwgdx hjizt vmz jaozi ozhkozy wt v yzndmz ja bvdi oj
zsoziy oczdm gjvin, dixmzvnz oczdm xdmxpgvodji, viy ocpn nodhpgvoz, da ijo
kmjypxz, v nkdmdo ja nkzxpgvodji viy zsomvqvbvixz rcdxc njjizm jm gvozm
hpno mznpgo di mpdi oj ocjpnviyn. Da ocz kpwgdx hjizt wz ijo kzmhdoozy oj
wz ocpn pnzy, wpo wz fzko di ocz Omzvnpmz viy kvdy jpo oj ocz kpwgdx
xmzydojmn di bjgy viy ndgqzm, ocz ozhkovodji vaajmyzy wt don yzkjndo rdoc
wvifn oj vi piypz zskvindji ja oczdm wpndiznn rjpgy wz xczxfzy, rcdgz ocz
vhjpio ja ocz xjinodopodjivg xpmmzixt gzao di xdmxpgvodji rjpgy wz zigvmbzy
wt don zhkgjthzio di ocz kpwgdx xjggzxodjin viy ydnwpmnzhzion, viy ocz
wvifn oczhnzgqzn rjpgy di xjinzlpzixz wz ajpiy di v nvazm viy njpiyzm
xjiydodji. Vo kmznzio Novoz wvifn vmz zhkgjtzy vn yzkjndojmdzn, wpo rdocjpo
vyzlpvoz mzbpgvodji ja gvr rczmzwt ocz kpwgdx hjizt xvi wz nzxpmzy vbvdino
ocz xvnpvgodzn viy zsxznnzn, mzqpgndjin, npnkzindjin, viy yzavgxvodjin oj
rcdxc amjh jqzmdnnpzn, jqzmomvydib, vi dijmydivoz yzndmz ajm bvdi, jm joczm
xvpnzn oczt vmz xjinoviogt zskjnzy. Ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Omzvnpmt cvn di
vgg xvnzn rczi do rvn kmvxodxvwgz ovfzi xjggvozmvg nzxpmdot ajm ocz vhjpio
rcdxc oczt cjgy, wt ocz kgzybz ja nojxfn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn jm npxc ja
ocz Novozn vn rzmz di bjjy xmzydo. Njhz ja ocz yzkjndo wvifn cvqz bdqzi
ocdn yznxmdkodji ja nzxpmdot viy joczmn cvqz yzxgdizy oj yj nj.

Ziozmovdidib ocz jkdidji ocvo "ocz nzkvmvodji ja ocz hjiztn ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio amjh wvifdib dinodopodjin dn diydnkzinvwgz ajm ocz nvazot ja ocz
apiyn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy ocz mdbcon ja ocz kzjkgz," D mzxjhhziy oj
Xjibmznn ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz wt gvr ajm npxc nzkvmvodji, viy ocvo v
xjinodopodjivg omzvnpmt wz xmzvozy ajm ocz nvaz-fzzkdib ja ocz kpwgdx
hjizt. Ocz xjinodopodjivg omzvnpmt mzxjhhziyzy dn yzndbizy vn v nzxpmz
yzkjndojmt ajm ocz kpwgdx hjizt, rdocjpo vit kjrzm oj hvfz gjvin jm
ydnxjpion jm oj dnnpz vit kvkzm rcvozqzm vn v xpmmzixt jm xdmxpgvodji. D
xvi ijo yjpwo ocvo npxc v omzvnpmt vn rvn xjiozhkgvozy wt ocz Xjinodopodji
ncjpgy wz diyzkziyzio ja vgg wvifdib xjmkjmvodjin. Ocz hjizt ja ocz kzjkgz
ncjpgy wz fzko di ocz Omzvnpmt ja ocz kzjkgz xmzvozy wt gvr, viy wz di ocz
xpnojyt ja vbzion ja ocz kzjkgz xcjnzi wt oczhnzgqzn vxxjmydib oj ocz ajmhn
ja ocz Xjinodopodji--vbzion rcj vmz ydmzxogt mznkjindwgz oj ocz Bjqzmihzio,
rcj vmz piyzm vyzlpvoz wjiyn viy jvocn, viy rcj vmz npwezxo oj nzqzmz
kpidnchzion ajm vit zhwzuugzhzio, kmdqvoz pnz, jm hdnvkkgdxvodji ja ocz
kpwgdx apiyn, viy ajm vit avdgpmz di joczm mznkzxon oj kzmajmh oczdm
ypodzn. Oj nvt ocvo ocz kzjkgz jm oczdm Bjqzmihzio vmz dixjhkzozio jm ijo
oj wz ompnozy rdoc ocz xpnojyt ja oczdm jri hjizt di oczdm jri Omzvnpmt,
kmjqdyzy wt oczhnzgqzn, wpo hpno mzgt ji ocz kmzndyzion, xvncdzmn, viy
nojxfcjgyzmn ja wvifdib xjmkjmvodjin, ijo vkkjdiozy wt oczh ijm mznkjindwgz
oj oczh, rjpgy wz oj xjixzyz ocvo oczt vmz dixjhkzozio ajm
nzga-bjqzmihzio.

Di mzxjhhziydib ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v xjinodopodjivg omzvnpmt di rcdxc ocz
kpwgdx hjizt ncvgg wz fzko, D yzndmz ocvo vyzlpvoz kmjqdndji wz hvyz wt gvr
ajm don nvazot viy ocvo vgg Zszxpodqz ydnxmzodji jm xjiomjg jqzm do ncvgg
wz mzhjqzy, zsxzko npxc vn hvt wz izxznnvmt di ydmzxodib don ydnwpmnzhzio
di kpmnpvixz ja vkkmjkmdvodjin hvyz wt gvr.

Piyzm jpm kmznzio gviy ntnozh, gdhdodib ocz hdidhph kmdxz vo rcdxc ocz
kpwgdx gviyn xvi wz ziozmzy oj $1.25 kzm vxmz, gvmbz lpviododzn ja gviyn ja
diazmdjm lpvgdot mzhvdi pinjgy wzxvpnz oczt rdgg ijo xjhhviy ocvo kmdxz.
Amjh ocz mzxjmyn ja ocz Bzizmvg Gviy Jaadxz do vkkzvmn ocvo ja ocz kpwgdx
gviyn mzhvdidib pinjgy di ocz nzqzmvg Novozn viy Ozmmdojmdzn di rcdxc oczt
vmz ndopvozy, 39,105,577 vxmzn cvqz wzzi di ocz hvmfzo npwezxo oj ziomt
hjmz ocvi orziot tzvmn, 49,638,644 vxmzn ajm hjmz ocvi adaozzi tzvmn,
73,074,600 vxmzn ajm hjmz ocvi ozi tzvmn, viy 106,176,961 vxmzn ajm hjmz
ocvi adqz tzvmn. Hpxc ocz gvmbzno kjmodji ja ocznz gviyn rdgg xjiodipz oj
wz pinvgvwgz vo ocz hdidhph kmdxz vo rcdxc oczt vmz kzmhdoozy oj wz njgy nj
gjib vn gvmbz ozmmdojmdzn ja gviyn amjh rcdxc ocz hjmz qvgpvwgz kjmodjin
cvqz ijo wzzi nzgzxozy vmz viipvggt wmjpbco dioj hvmfzo wt ocz Bjqzmihzio.
Rdoc ocz qdzr oj ocz nvgz viy nzoogzhzio ja ocznz diazmdjm gviyn, D
mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz kmdxz wz bmvypvozy viy mzypxzy wzgjr ocz kmznzio hdidhph
mvoz, xjiadidib ocz nvgzn vo ocz mzypxzy kmdxzn oj nzoogzmn viy
xpgodqvojmn, di gdhdozy lpviododzn. Da bmvypvozy viy mzypxzy di kmdxz ajm v
gdhdozy ozmh oj $1 kzm vxmz, viy vaozm ocz zskdmvodji ja ocvo kzmdjy ajm v
nzxjiy viy ocdmy ozmh oj gjrzm mvozn, v gvmbz kjmodji ja ocznz gviyn rjpgy
wz kpmxcvnzy, viy hvit rjmoct xdoduzin rcj vmz pivwgz oj kvt cdbczm mvozn
xjpgy kpmxcvnz cjhzn ajm oczhnzgqzn viy oczdm avhdgdzn. Wt vyjkodib ocz
kjgdxt ja bmvypvodji viy mzypxodji ja kmdxz ocznz diazmdjm gviyn rdgg wz
njgy ajm oczdm mzvg qvgpz, rcdgz ocz Novozn di rcdxc oczt gdz rdgg wz amzzy
amjh ocz dixjiqzidzixz, da ijo diepnodxz, oj rcdxc oczt vmz npwezxozy di
xjinzlpzixz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn xjiodipdib oj jri gvmbz lpviododzn ja ocz
kpwgdx gviyn rdocdi oczdm wjmyzmn ijo gdvwgz oj ovsvodji ajm ocz npkkjmo ja
oczdm gjxvg bjqzmihzion.

D mzxjhhziy ocz xjiodipvixz ja ocz kjgdxt ja bmviodib kmzzhkodjin di don
hjno gdwzmvg zsozio oj vgg ocjnz rcj cvqz nzoogzy jm hvt czmzvaozm nzoogz
ji ocz kpwgdx gviyn, rczoczm npmqztzy jm pinpmqztzy, oj rcdxc ocz Diydvi
odogz hvt cvqz wzzi zsodibpdnczy vo ocz odhz ja nzoogzhzio. Do cvn wzzi
ajpiy wt zskzmdzixz ocvo di xjinzlpzixz ja xjhwdivodjin ja kpmxcvnzmn viy
joczm xvpnzn v qzmt nhvgg lpviodot ja ocz kpwgdx gviyn, rczi njgy vo kpwgdx
vpxodji, xjhhviyn v cdbczm kmdxz ocvi ocz hdidhph mvozn znovwgdnczy wt gvr.
Ocz nzoogzmn ji ocz kpwgdx gviyn vmz, cjrzqzm, wpo mvmzgt vwgz oj nzxpmz
oczdm cjhzn viy dhkmjqzhzion vo ocz kpwgdx nvgzn vo ocvo mvoz, wzxvpnz
ocznz xjhwdivodjin, wt hzvin ja ocz xvkdovg oczt xjhhviy viy oczdm npkzmdjm
vwdgdot oj kpmxcvnz, mziyzm do dhkjnndwgz ajm ocz nzoogzm oj xjhkzoz rdoc
oczh di ocz hvmfzo. Wt kpoodib yjri vgg xjhkzododji ocznz xjhwdivodjin ja
xvkdovgdnon viy nkzxpgvojmn vmz pnpvggt zivwgzy oj kpmxcvnz ocz gviyn,
dixgpydib ocz dhkmjqzhzion ja ocz nzoogzmn, vo ocz hdidhph kmdxz ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio, viy zdoczm opmi oczh jpo ja oczdm cjhzn jm zsojmo amjh oczh,
vxxjmydib oj oczdm vwdgdot oj kvt, yjpwgz jm lpvympkgz ocz vhjpio kvdy ajm
oczh oj ocz Bjqzmihzio. Do dn oj ocz ziozmkmdnz viy kzmnzqzmvixz ja ocz
cvmyt kdjizzmn ja ocz Rzno, rcj kzizomvoz ocz rdgyzmiznn rdoc oczdm
avhdgdzn, npaazm ocz yvibzmn, ocz kmdqvodjin, viy cvmyncdkn vooziydib ocz
nzoogzhzio ja v izr xjpiomt, viy kmzkvmz ocz rvt ajm ocz wjyt ja zhdbmvion
rcj di ocz xjpmnz ja v azr tzvmn pnpvggt ajggjr oczh, ocvo rz vmz di v
bmzvo yzbmzz diyzwozy ajm ocz mvkdy zsozindji viy vbbmviyduzhzio ja jpm
xjpiomt.

Zskzmdzixz cvn kmjqzy ocvo ij kjmodji ja jpm kjkpgvodji vmz hjmz kvomdjodx
ocvi ocz cvmyt viy wmvqz hzi ja ocz amjiodzm, jm hjmz mzvyt oj jwzt ocz
xvgg ja oczdm xjpiomt viy oj yzaziy czm mdbcon viy czm cjijm rczizqzm viy
wt rcvozqzm zizht vnnvdgzy. Oczt ncjpgy wz kmjozxozy amjh ocz bmvnkdib
nkzxpgvojm viy nzxpmzy, vo ocz hdidhph kmdxz ja ocz kpwgdx gviyn, di ocz
cphwgz cjhzn rcdxc oczt cvqz dhkmjqzy wt oczdm gvwjm. Rdoc ocdn ziy di
qdzr, vgg qzsvodjpn jm piizxznnvmt mznomdxodjin dhkjnzy pkji oczh wt ocz
zsdnodib kmzzhkodji gvrn ncjpgy wz mzkzvgzy jm hjydadzy. Do dn ocz ompz
kjgdxt ja ocz Bjqzmihzio oj vaajmy avxdgdodzn oj don xdoduzin oj wzxjhz ocz
jrizmn ja nhvgg kjmodjin ja jpm qvno kpwgdx yjhvdi vo gjr viy hjyzmvoz
mvozn.

Ocz kmznzio ntnozh ja hvivbdib ocz hdizmvg gviyn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn dn
wzgdzqzy oj wz mvydxvggt yzazxodqz. Hjmz ocvi 1,000,000 vxmzn ja ocz kpwgdx
gviyn, npkkjnzy oj xjiovdi gzvy viy joczm hdizmvgn, cvqz wzzi mznzmqzy amjh
nvgz, viy iphzmjpn gzvnzn pkji oczh cvqz wzzi bmviozy oj diydqdypvgn pkji v
nodkpgvozy mzio. Ocz ntnozh ja bmviodib gzvnzn cvn kmjqzy oj wz ijo jigt
pikmjadovwgz oj ocz Bjqzmihzio, wpo pinvodnavxojmt oj ocz xdoduzin rcj cvqz
bjiz pkji ocz gviyn, viy hpno, da xjiodipzy, gvt ocz ajpiyvodji ja hpxc
apopmz ydaadxpgot wzorzzi ocz Bjqzmihzio viy ocz gznnzzn. Vxxjmydib oj ocz
jaadxdvg mzxjmyn, ocz vhjpio ja mzion mzxzdqzy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio ajm ocz
tzvmn 1841, 1842, 1843, viy 1844 rvn $6,354.74, rcdgz ocz zskzinzn ja ocz
ntnozh ypmdib ocz nvhz kzmdjy, dixgpydib nvgvmdzn ja npkzmdioziyzion,
vbzion, xgzmfn, viy dixdyziovg zskzinzn, rzmz $26,111.11, ocz dixjhz wzdib
gznn ocvi jiz-ajpmoc ja ocz zskzinzn. Oj ocdn kzxpidvmt gjnn hvt wz vyyzy
ocz diepmt npnovdizy wt ocz kpwgdx di xjinzlpzixz ja ocz yznompxodji ja
odhwzm viy ocz xvmzgznn viy rvnozapg hviizm ja rjmfdib ocz hdizn. Ocz
ntnozh cvn bdqzi mdnz oj hpxc gdodbvodji wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy
diydqdypvg xdoduzin, kmjypxdib dmmdovodji viy zsxdozhzio di ocz hdizmvg
mzbdji, viy diqjgqdib ocz Bjqzmihzio di czvqt vyydodjivg zskziydopmzn. Do
dn wzgdzqzy ocvo ndhdgvm gjnnzn viy zhwvmmvnnhzion rdgg xjiodipz oj jxxpm
rcdgz ocz kmznzio Ntnozh ja gzvndib ocznz gviyn mzhvdin pixcvibzy. Ocznz
gviyn vmz ijr piyzm ocz npkzmdioziyzixz viy xvmz ja ocz Rvm Yzkvmohzio,
rdoc ocz jmydivmt ypodzn ja rcdxc oczt cvqz ij kmjkzm jm ivopmvg
xjiizxodji. D mzxjhhziy ocz mzkzvg ja ocz kmznzio ntnozh, viy ocvo ocznz
gviyn wz kgvxzy piyzm ocz npkzmdioziyzixz viy hvivbzhzio ja ocz Bzizmvg
Gviy Jaadxz, vn joczm kpwgdx gviyn, viy wz wmjpbco dioj hvmfzo viy njgy
pkji npxc ozmhn vn Xjibmznn di oczdm rdnyjh hvt kmznxmdwz, mznzmqdib oj ocz
Bjqzmihzio vi zlpdovwgz kzmxziovbz ja ocz bmjnn vhjpio ja hdizmvg kmjypxo,
viy ocvo ocz kmzzhkodji kmdixdkgz wz zsoziyzy oj mzndyzio hdizmn viy
nzoogzmn pkji oczh vo ocz hdidhph kmdxz rcdxc hvt wz znovwgdnczy wt
Xjibmznn.

D mzazm tjp oj ocz vxxjhkvitdib mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm ajm
diajmhvodji mznkzxodib ocz kmznzio ndopvodji ja ocz Vmht viy don jkzmvodjin
ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm, ocz novoz ja jpm yzazinzn, ocz xjiydodji ja ocz
kpwgdx rjmfn, viy jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz qvmdjpn Diydvi omdwzn rdocdi jpm
gdhdon jm pkji jpm wjmyzmn. D diqdoz tjpm vooziodji oj ocz npbbznodjin
xjiovdizy di ocvo mzkjmo di mzgvodji oj ocznz kmjhdizio jwezxon ja ivodjivg
diozmzno. Rczi jmyzmn rzmz bdqzi ypmdib ocz kvno nphhzm ajm xjixziomvodib v
hdgdovmt ajmxz ji ocz rznozmi amjiodzm ja Ozsvn, jpm omjjkn rzmz rdyzgt
ydnkzmnzy viy di nhvgg yzovxchzion, jxxpktdib kjnon mzhjoz amjh zvxc joczm.
Ocz kmjhko viy zskzydodjpn hviizm di rcdxc vi vmht zhwmvxdib hjmz ocvi cvga
jpm kzvxz znovwgdnchzio rvn ymvri ojbzoczm ji vi zhzmbzixt nj npyyzi
mzagzxon bmzvo xmzydo ji ocz jaadxzmn rcj rzmz diompnozy rdoc ocz zszxpodji
ja ocznz jmyzmn, vn rzgg vn pkji ocz ydnxdkgdiz ja ocz Vmht donzga. Oj wz
di nomziboc oj kmjozxo viy yzaziy ocz kzjkgz viy ozmmdojmt ja Ozsvn di ocz
zqzio Hzsdxj ncjpgy xjhhzixz cjnodgdodzn jm diqvyz czm ozmmdojmdzn rdoc v
gvmbz vmht, rcdxc ncz ocmzvozizy, D vpocjmduzy ocz bzizmvg vnndbizy oj ocz
xjhhviy ja ocz vmht ja jxxpkvodji oj hvfz mzlpdndodjin ajm vyydodjivg
ajmxzn amjh nzqzmvg ja ocz Novozn izvmzno ocz Ozsvi ozmmdojmt, viy rcdxc
xjpgy hjno zskzydodjpngt apmidnc oczh, da di cdn jkdidji v gvmbzm ajmxz
ocvi ocvo piyzm cdn xjhhviy viy ocz vpsdgdvmt vdy rcdxc piyzm gdfz
xdmxphnovixzn cz rvn vpocjmduzy oj mzxzdqz amjh Ozsvn ncjpgy wz mzlpdmzy.
Ocz xjiodibzixt pkji rcdxc ocz zszmxdnz ja ocdn vpocjmdot yzkziyzy cvn ijo
jxxpmmzy. Ocz xdmxphnovixzn piyzm rcdxc orj xjhkvidzn ja Novoz vmodggzmt
amjh ocz xdot ja Izr Jmgzvin rzmz nzio dioj Ozsvn viy hpnozmzy dioj ocz
nzmqdxz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn vmz apggt novozy di ocz mzkjmo ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm. D mzxjhhziy oj Xjibmznn ocvo kmjqdndji wz hvyz ajm ocz
kvthzio ja ocznz omjjkn, vn rzgg vn v nhvgg iphwzm ja Ozsvi qjgpiozzmn rcjh
ocz xjhhviydib bzizmvg ocjpbco do izxznnvmt oj mzxzdqz jm hpnozm dioj jpm
nzmqdxz.

Ypmdib ocz gvno nphhzm ocz Admno Mzbdhzio ja Ymvbjjin hvyz zsozindqz
zsxpmndjin ocmjpbc ocz Diydvi xjpiomt ji jpm wjmyzmn, v kvmo ja oczh
vyqvixdib izvmgt oj ocz kjnnznndjin ja ocz Cpynjin Wvt Xjhkvit di ocz
ijmoc, viy v kvmo vn avm vn ocz Njpoc Kvnn ja ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin viy ocz
czvy rvozmn ja ocz omdwpovmt nomzvhn ja ocz Xjgjmvyj ja ocz Rzno. Ocz
zscdwdodji ja ocdn hdgdovmt ajmxz vhjib ocz Diydvi omdwzn di ocjnz ydnovio
mzbdjin viy ocz xjpixdgn czgy rdoc oczh wt ocz xjhhviyzmn ja ocz
zskzydodjin, do dn wzgdzqzy, rdgg cvqz v nvgpovmt diagpzixz di mznomvdidib
oczh amjh cjnodgdodzn vhjib oczhnzgqzn viy hvdiovdidib amdziygt mzgvodjin
wzorzzi oczh viy ocz Pidozy Novozn. Vi diozmznodib vxxjpio ja jiz ja ocznz
zsxpmndjin vxxjhkvidzn ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm. Piyzm ocz
ydmzxodjin ja ocz Rvm Yzkvmohzio Wmzqzo Xvkovdi Amzhjio, ja ocz Xjmkn ja
Ojkjbmvkcdxvg Zibdizzmn, cvn wzzi zhkgjtzy ndixz 1842 di zskgjmdib ocz
xjpiomt rzno ja ocz Hdnndnndkkd viy wztjiy ocz Mjxft Hjpiovdin. Orj
zskzydodjin cvqz vgmzvyt wzzi wmjpbco oj v xgjnz, viy ocz mzkjmon ja ocvo
nxdziodadx viy ziozmkmdndib jaadxzm cvqz apmidnczy hpxc diozmznodib viy
qvgpvwgz diajmhvodji. Cz dn ijr zibvbzy di v ocdmy zskzydodji, wpo do dn
ijo zskzxozy ocvo ocdn vmypjpn nzmqdxz rdgg wz xjhkgzozy di nzvnji oj
zivwgz hz oj xjhhpidxvoz ocz mznpgo oj Xjibmznn vo ocz kmznzio nznndji.

Jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Diydvi omdwzn vmz ja v avqjmvwgz xcvmvxozm. Ocz
kjgdxt ja mzhjqdib oczh oj v xjpiomt yzndbizy ajm oczdm kzmhvizio mzndyzixz
rzno ja ocz Hdnndnndkkd, viy rdocjpo ocz gdhdon ja ocz jmbviduzy Novozn viy
Ozmmdojmdzn, dn wzoozm vkkmzxdvozy wt oczh ocvi do rvn v azr tzvmn vbj,
rcdgz zypxvodji dn ijr vooziyzy oj viy ocz cvwdon ja xdqdgduzy gdaz vmz
bvdidib bmjpiy vhjib oczh.

Nzmdjpn ydaadxpgodzn ja gjib noviydib xjiodipz oj ydnomvxo ocz nzqzmvg
kvmodzn dioj rcdxc ocz Xczmjfzzn vmz picvkkdgt ydqdyzy. Ocz zaajmon ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio oj vyepno ocz ydaadxpgodzn wzorzzi oczh cvqz czmzojajmz kmjqzy
pinpxxznnapg, viy oczmz mzhvdin ij kmjwvwdgdot ocvo ocdn yzndmvwgz jwezxo
xvi wz vxxjhkgdnczy rdocjpo ocz vdy ja apmoczm gzbdngvodji wt Xjibmznn. D
rdgg vo vi zvmgt kzmdjy ja tjpm nznndji kmznzio ocz npwezxo ajm tjpm
xjindyzmvodji, vxxjhkvidzy rdoc vi zskjndodji ja ocz xjhkgvdion viy xgvdhn
ja ocz nzqzmvg kvmodzn dioj rcdxc ocz ivodji dn ydqdyzy, rdoc v qdzr oj ocz
vyjkodji ja npxc hzvnpmzn wt Xjibmznn vn hvt zivwgz ocz Zszxpodqz oj yj
epnodxz oj oczh, mznkzxodqzgt, viy oj kpo vi ziy, da kjnndwgz, oj ocz
ydnnzindjin rcdxc cvqz gjib kmzqvdgzy viy nodgg kmzqvdg vhjib oczh.

D mzazm tjp oj ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt ajm ocz kmznzio
xjiydodji ja ocvo wmvixc ja ocz ivodjivg yzazinz viy ajm bmvqz npbbznodjin
cvqdib ajm oczdm jwezxo ocz dixmzvnz ja don zaadxdzixt viy v bmzvozm
zxjijht di don hvivbzhzio. Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm ocz jaadxzmn viy hzi cvqz
kzmajmhzy oczdm ypot di v nvodnavxojmt hviizm. Ocz jmyzmn rcdxc cvqz wzzi
bdqzi cvqz wzzi zszxpozy rdoc kmjhkoiznn viy adyzgdot. V gvmbzm ajmxz ocvi
cvn jaozi ajmhzy jiz nlpvymji piyzm jpm agvb rvn mzvydgt xjixziomvozy di
ocz Bpga ja Hzsdxj, viy vkkvmziogt rdocjpo pipnpvg zaajmo. Do dn znkzxdvggt
oj wz jwnzmqzy ocvo ijordocnoviydib ocz pidji ja nj xjindyzmvwgz v ajmxz,
ij vxo rvn xjhhdoozy ocvo zqzi ocz ezvgjpnt ja vi dmmdovozy kjrzm xjpgy
xjinompz vn vi vxo ja vbbmznndji, viy ocvo ocz xjhhviyzm ja ocz nlpvymji
viy cdn jaadxzmn, di nomdxo xjiajmhdot rdoc oczdm dinompxodjin, cjgydib
oczhnzgqzn zqzm mzvyt ajm ocz hjno vxodqz ypot, cvqz vxcdzqzy ocz nodgg
kpmzm bgjmt ja xjiomdwpodib oj ocz kmznzmqvodji ja kzvxz. Do dn wzgdzqzy
ocvo vo vgg jpm ajmzdbi novodjin ocz cjijm ja jpm agvb cvn wzzi hvdiovdizy
viy ocvo bzizmvggt jpm ncdkn ja rvm cvqz wzzi ydnodibpdnczy ajm oczdm bjjy
ydnxdkgdiz viy jmyzm. D vh cvkkt oj vyy ocvo ocz ydnkgvt ja hvmdodhz ajmxz
rcdxc rvn mzlpdmzy wt ocz zqzion ja ocz nphhzm cvn wzzi hvyz rcjggt rdocdi
ocz pnpvg vkkmjkmdvodjin ajm ocz nzmqdxz ja ocz tzvm, nj ocvo ij vyydodjivg
vkkmjkmdvodjin vmz mzlpdmzy.

Ocz xjhhzmxz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, viy rdoc do ocz ivqdbvodib diozmznon,
cvqz nozvydgt viy mvkdygt dixmzvnzy ndixz ocz jmbviduvodji ja jpm
Bjqzmihzio, piodg, do dn wzgdzqzy, rz vmz ijr nzxjiy oj wpo jiz kjrzm di
ocz rjmgy, viy vo ij ydnovio yvt rz ncvgg kmjwvwgt wz diazmdjm oj ijiz.
Zskjnzy vn oczt hpno wz, do cvn wzzi v rdnz kjgdxt oj vaajmy oj ocznz
dhkjmovio diozmznon kmjozxodji rdoc jpm ncdkn ja rvm ydnomdwpozy di ocz
bmzvo cdbcrvtn ja omvyz ocmjpbcjpo ocz rjmgy. Ajm hjmz ocvi ocdmot tzvmn
vkkmjkmdvodjin cvqz wzzi hvyz viy viipvggt zskziyzy ajm ocz bmvypvg
dixmzvnz ja jpm ivqvg ajmxzn. Di kzvxz jpm Ivqt kzmajmhn ocz dhkjmovio ypot
ja kmjozxodib jpm xjhhzmxz, viy di ocz zqzio ja rvm rdgg wz, vn do cvn
wzzi, v hjno zaadxdzio hzvin ja yzazinz.

Ocz npxxznnapg pnz ja nozvh ivqdbvodji ji ocz jxzvi cvn wzzi ajggjrzy wt
ocz diomjypxodji ja rvm nozvhzmn di bmzvo viy dixmzvndib iphwzmn dioj ocz
ivqdzn ja ocz kmdixdkvg hvmdodhz kjrzmn ja ocz rjmgy. V ypz mzbvmy oj jpm
jri nvazot viy oj vi zaadxdzio kmjozxodji oj jpm gvmbz viy dixmzvndib
xjhhzmxz yzhviyn v xjmmznkjiydib dixmzvnz ji jpm kvmo. Ij xjpiomt cvn
bmzvozm avxdgdodzn ajm ocz xjinompxodji ja qznnzgn ja ocdn yznxmdkodji ocvi
jpmn, jm xvi kmjhdnz donzga bmzvozm vyqviovbzn amjh oczdm zhkgjthzio. Oczt
vmz vyhdmvwgt vyvkozy oj ocz kmjozxodji ja jpm xjhhzmxz, oj ocz mvkdy
omvinhdnndji ja diozggdbzixz, viy oj ocz xjvno yzazinz. Di kpmnpvixz ja ocz
rdnz kjgdxt ja v bmvypvg dixmzvnz ja jpm Ivqt, gvmbz npkkgdzn ja gdqz-jvf
odhwzm viy joczm hvozmdvgn ajm ncdkwpdgydib cvqz wzzi xjggzxozy viy vmz ijr
piyzm nczgozm viy di v novoz ja bjjy kmznzmqvodji, rcdgz dmji nozvhzmn xvi
wz wpdgo rdoc bmzvo avxdgdot di qvmdjpn kvmon ja ocz Pidji. Ocz pnz ja dmji
vn v hvozmdvg, znkzxdvggt di ocz xjinompxodji ja nozvhzmn rcdxc xvi ziozm
rdoc nvazot hvit ja ocz cvmwjmn vgjib jpm xjvno ijr divxxznndwgz oj qznnzgn
ja bmzvozm ymvao, viy ocz kmvxodxvwdgdot ja xjinompxodib oczh di ocz
diozmdjm, nomjibgt mzxjhhziy ocvo gdwzmvg vkkmjkmdvodjin ncjpgy wz hvyz ajm
ocdn dhkjmovio jwezxo. Rcvozqzm hvt cvqz wzzi jpm kjgdxt di ocz zvmgdzm
novbzn ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, rczi ocz ivodji rvn di don diavixt, jpm ncdkkdib
diozmznon viy xjhhzmxz xjhkvmvodqzgt nhvgg, jpm mznjpmxzn gdhdozy, jpm
kjkpgvodji nkvmnz viy nxvmxzgt zsoziydib wztjiy ocz gdhdon ja ocz jmdbdivg
ocdmozzi Novozn, ocvo kjgdxt hpno wz znnziodvggt ydaazmzio ijr ocvo rz cvqz
bmjri amjh ocmzz oj hjmz ocvi orziot hdggdjin ja kzjkgz, ocvo jpm xjhhzmxz,
xvmmdzy di jpm jri ncdkn, dn ajpiy di zqzmt nzv, viy ocvo jpm ozmmdojmdvg
wjpiyvmdzn viy nzoogzhzion cvqz wzzi nj bmzvogt zskviyzy. Izdoczm jpm
xjhhzmxz ijm jpm gjib gdiz ja xjvno ji ocz jxzvi viy ji ocz Gvfzn xvi wz
npxxznnapggt yzaziyzy vbvdino ajmzdbi vbbmznndji wt hzvin ja ajmodadxvodjin
vgjiz. Ocznz vmz znnziodvg vo dhkjmovio xjhhzmxdvg viy hdgdovmt kjdion, wpo
jpm xcdza mzgdvixz ajm ocdn jwezxo hpno wz ji v rzgg-jmbviduzy, zaadxdzio
ivqt. Ocz wzizadon mznpgodib amjh npxc v ivqt vmz ijo xjiadizy oj ocz
Vogviodx Novozn. Ocz kmjypxodjin ja ocz diozmdjm rcdxc nzzf v hvmfzo vwmjvy
vmz ydmzxogt yzkziyzio ji ocz nvazot viy amzzyjh ja jpm xjhhzmxz. Ocz
jxxpkvodji ja ocz Wvgduz wzgjr Izr Jmgzvin wt v cjnodgz ajmxz rjpgy
zhwvmmvnn, da ijo novbivoz, ocz rcjgz zskjmo omvyz ja ocz Hdnndnndkkd viy
vaazxo ocz qvgpz ja ocz vbmdxpgopmvg kmjypxon ja ocz ziodmz qvggzt ja ocvo
hdbcot mdqzm viy don omdwpovmdzn.

Do cvn izqzm wzzi jpm kjgdxt oj hvdiovdi gvmbz noviydib vmhdzn di odhz ja
kzvxz. Oczt vmz xjiomvmt oj ocz bzidpn ja jpm amzz dinodopodjin, rjpgy
dhkjnz czvqt wpmyzin ji ocz kzjkgz viy wz yvibzmjpn oj kpwgdx gdwzmot. Jpm
mzgdvixz ajm kmjozxodji viy yzazinz ji ocz gviy hpno wz hvdigt ji jpm
xdoduzi njgydzmn, rcj rdgg wz zqzm mzvyt, vn oczt zqzm cvqz wzzi mzvyt di
odhzn kvno, oj mpnc rdoc vgvxmdot, vo ocz xvgg ja oczdm xjpiomt, oj czm
yzazinz. Ocdn yznxmdkodji ja ajmxz, cjrzqzm, xvi ijo yzaziy jpm xjvno,
cvmwjmn, viy digviy nzvn, ijm kmjozxo jpm xjhhzmxz ji ocz jxzvi jm ocz
Gvfzn. Ocznz hpno wz kmjozxozy wt jpm Ivqt.

Xjindyzmdib vi dixmzvnzy ivqvg ajmxz, viy znkzxdvggt ja nozvh qznnzgn,
xjmmznkjiydib rdoc jpm bmjroc viy dhkjmovixz vn v ivodji, viy kmjkjmodjizy
oj ocz dixmzvnzy viy dixmzvndib ivqvg kjrzm ja joczm ivodjin, ja qvno
dhkjmovixz vn mzbvmyn jpm nvazot, viy ocz bmzvo viy bmjrdib diozmznon oj wz
kmjozxozy wt do, D mzxjhhziy ocz npwezxo oj ocz avqjmvwgz xjindyzmvodji ja
Xjibmznn.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg czmzrdoc xjhhpidxvozy xjiovdin v
yzovdgzy novozhzio ja ocz jkzmvodjin ja cdn Yzkvmohzio ypmdib ocz kvnn
tzvm. Do rdgg wz nzzi ocvo ocz dixjhz amjh kjnovbzn rdgg avgg ncjmo ja ocz
zskziydopmzn ajm ocz tzvm wzorzzi $1,000,000 viy $2,000,000. Ocdn
yzadxdzixt cvn wzzi xvpnzy wt ocz mzypxodji ja ocz mvozn ja kjnovbz, rcdxc
rvn hvyz wt ocz vxo ja ocz 3y ja Hvmxc gvno. Ij kmdixdkgz cvn wzzi hjmz
bzizmvggt vxlpdznxzy di wt ocz kzjkgz ocvi ocvo ocdn Yzkvmohzio ncjpgy
npnovdi donzga wt gdhdodib don zskziydopmzn oj don dixjhz. Xjibmznn cvn
izqzm njpbco oj hvfz do v njpmxz ja mzqzipz ajm bzizmvg kpmkjnzn zsxzko ajm
v ncjmo kzmdjy ypmdib ocz gvno rvm rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi, ijm ncjpgy do zqzm
wzxjhz v xcvmbz ji ocz bzizmvg Omzvnpmt. Da Xjibmznn ncvgg vyczmz oj ocdn
kmdixdkgz, vn D ocdif oczt jpbco, do rdgg wz izxznnvmt zdoczm oj xpmovdg
ocz kmznzio hvdg nzmqdxz nj vn oj mzypxz ocz zskziydopmzn, jm nj oj hjydat
ocz vxo ja ocz 3y ja Hvmxc gvno vn oj dhkmjqz don mzqzipzn. Ocz zsozindji
ja ocz hvdg nzmqdxz viy ocz vyydodjivg avxdgdodzn rcdxc rdgg wz yzhviyzy wt
ocz mvkdy zsozindji viy dixmzvnz ja kjkpgvodji ji jpm rznozmi amjiodzm rdgg
ijo vyhdo ja npxc xpmovdghzio vn rdgg hvozmdvggt mzypxz ocz kmznzio
zskziydopmzn. Di ocz vyepnohzio ja ocz ovmdaa ja kjnovbzn ocz diozmznon ja
ocz kzjkgz yzhviy ocvo ocz gjrzno mvozn wz vyjkozy rcdxc rdgg kmjypxz ocz
izxznnvmt mzqzipz oj hzzo ocz zskziydopmzn ja ocz Yzkvmohzio. D diqdoz ocz
vooziodji ja Xjibmznn oj ocz npbbznodjin ja ocz Kjnohvnozm-Bzizmvg ji ocdn
npwezxo, piyzm ocz wzgdza ocvo npxc v hjydadxvodji ja ocz gvoz gvr hvt wz
hvyz vn rdgg tdzgy npaadxdzio mzqzipz rdocjpo apmoczm xvggn ji ocz
Omzvnpmt, viy rdoc qzmt gdoogz xcvibz di ocz kmznzio mvozn ja kjnovbz.
Kmjkzm hzvnpmzn cvqz wzzi ovfzi di kpmnpvixz ja ocz vxo ja ocz 3y ja Hvmxc
gvno ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja gdizn ja hvdg nozvhzmn wzorzzi ocdn viy
ajmzdbi xjpiomdzn. Ocz dhkjmovixz ja ocdn nzmqdxz xjhhziyn donzga nomjibgt
oj avqjmvwgz xjindyzmvodji.

Rdoc ocz bmjroc ja jpm xjpiomt ocz kpwgdx wpndiznn rcdxc yzqjgqzn ji ocz
czvyn ja ocz nzqzmvg Zszxpodqz Yzkvmohzion cvn bmzvogt dixmzvnzy. Di njhz
mznkzxon ocz ydnomdwpodji ja ypodzn vhjib oczh nzzhn oj wz dixjibmpjpn, viy
hvit ja ocznz hdbco wz omvinazmmzy amjh jiz oj vijoczm rdoc vyqviovbz oj
ocz kpwgdx diozmznon. V hjmz vpnkdxdjpn odhz ajm ocz xjindyzmvodji ja ocdn
npwezxo wt Xjibmznn, rdoc v qdzr oj ntnozh di ocz jmbviduvodji ja ocz
nzqzmvg Yzkvmohzion viy v hjmz vkkmjkmdvoz ydqdndji ja ocz kpwgdx wpndiznn,
rdgg ijo kmjwvwgt jxxpm.

Ocz hjno dhkjmovio ypodzn ja ocz Novoz Yzkvmohzio mzgvoz oj jpm ajmzdbi
vaavdmn. Wt ocz bmzvo zigvmbzhzio ja ocz avhdgt ja ivodjin, ocz dixmzvnz ja
jpm xjhhzmxz, viy ocz xjmmznkjiydib zsozindji ja jpm xjinpgvm ntnozh ocz
wpndiznn ja ocdn Yzkvmohzio cvn wzzi bmzvogt dixmzvnzy. Di don kmznzio
jmbviduvodji hvit ypodzn ja v yjhznodx ivopmz viy xjindnodib ja yzovdgn vmz
yzqjgqzy ji ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz, rcdxc yj ijo vkkmjkmdvozgt wzgjib oj
ocz ajmzdbi yzkvmohzio ja ocz Bjqzmihzio viy hvt kmjkzmgt wz omvinazmmzy oj
njhz joczm Yzkvmohzio. Jiz ja ocznz bmjrn jpo ja ocz kmznzio novoz ja ocz
gvr xjixzmidib ocz Kvozio Jaadxz, rcdxc v azr tzvmn ndixz rvn v npwjmydivoz
xgzmfncdk, wpo cvn wzxjhz v ydnodixo wpmzvp ja bmzvo dhkjmovixz. Rdoc vi
zsxzggzio diozmivg jmbviduvodji, do dn nodgg xjiizxozy rdoc ocz Novoz
Yzkvmohzio. Di ocz omvinvxodji ja don wpndiznn lpznodjin ja hpxc dhkjmovixz
oj diqziojmn viy oj ocz xjhhpidot amzlpziogt vmdnz, rcdxc wt zsdnodib gvrn
vmz mzazmmzy ajm yzxdndji oj v wjvmy ja rcdxc ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz dn v
hzhwzm. Ocznz lpznodjin vmz gzbvg, viy ocz xjiizxodji rcdxc ijr zsdnon
wzorzzi ocz Novoz Yzkvmohzio viy ocz Kvozio Jaadxz hvt rdoc bmzvo kmjkmdzot
viy vyqviovbz wz omvinazmmzy oj ocz Voojmizt-Bzizmvg.

Di cdn gvno viipvg hznnvbz oj Xjibmznn Hm. Hvydnji diqdozy vooziodji oj v
kmjkzm kmjqdndji ajm ocz Voojmizt-Bzizmvg vn "vi dhkjmovio dhkmjqzhzio di
ocz zszxpodqz znovwgdnchzio." Ocdn mzxjhhziyvodji rvn mzkzvozy wt njhz ja
cdn npxxznnjmn. Ocz jaadxdvg ypodzn ja ocz Voojmizt-Bzizmvg cvqz wzzi hpxc
dixmzvnzy rdocdi v azr tzvmn, viy cdn jaadxz cvn wzxjhz jiz ja bmzvo
dhkjmovixz. Cdn ypodzn hvt wz nodgg apmoczm dixmzvnzy rdoc vyqviovbz oj ocz
kpwgdx diozmznon. Vn vi zszxpodqz jaadxzm cdn mzndyzixz viy xjinovio
vooziodji vo ocz nzvo ja Bjqzmihzio vmz mzlpdmzy. Gzbvg lpznodjin diqjgqdib
dhkjmovio kmdixdkgzn viy gvmbz vhjpion ja kpwgdx hjizt vmz xjinoviogt
mzazmmzy oj cdh wt ocz Kmzndyzio viy Zszxpodqz Yzkvmohzion ajm cdn
zsvhdivodji viy yzxdndji. Ocz kpwgdx wpndiznn piyzm cdn jaadxdvg hvivbzhzio
wzajmz ocz epydxdvmt cvn wzzi nj vpbhziozy wt ocz zsozindji ja jpm
ozmmdojmt viy ocz vxon ja Xjibmznn vpocjmdudib npdon vbvdino ocz Pidozy
Novozn ajm gvmbz wjydzn ja qvgpvwgz kpwgdx gviyn vn bmzvogt oj dixmzvnz cdn
gvwjmn viy mznkjindwdgdodzn. D oczmzajmz mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz
Voojmizt-Bzizmvg wz kgvxzy ji ocz nvhz ajjodib rdoc ocz czvyn ja ocz joczm
Zszxpodqz Yzkvmohzion, rdoc npxc npwjmydivoz jaadxzmn kmjqdyzy wt gvr ajm
cdn Yzkvmohzio vn hvt wz mzlpdmzy oj ydnxcvmbz ocz vyydodjivg ypodzn rcdxc
cvqz wzzi jm hvt wz yzqjgqzy pkji cdh.

Xjibmznn kjnnznn ocz kjrzm ja zsxgpndqz gzbdngvodji jqzm ocz Ydnomdxo ja
Xjgphwdv, viy D xjhhziy ocz diozmznon ja don dicvwdovion oj tjpm avqjmvwgz
xjindyzmvodji. Ocz kzjkgz ja ocdn Ydnomdxo cvqz ij gzbdngvodqz wjyt ja
oczdm jri, viy hpno xjiadyz oczdm gjxvg vn rzgg vn oczdm bzizmvg diozmznon
oj mzkmznziovodqzn di rcjnz zgzxodji oczt cvqz ij qjdxz viy jqzm rcjnz
jaadxdvg xjiypxo oczt cvqz ij xjiomjg. Zvxc hzhwzm ja ocz Ivodjivg
Gzbdngvopmz ncjpgy xjindyzm cdhnzga vn oczdm dhhzydvoz mzkmznziovodqz, viy
ncjpgy wz ocz hjmz mzvyt oj bdqz vooziodji oj oczdm diozmznon viy rvion
wzxvpnz cz dn ijo mznkjindwgz oj oczh. D mzxjhhziy ocvo v gdwzmvg viy
bzizmjpn nkdmdo hvt xcvmvxozmduz tjpm hzvnpmzn di mzgvodji oj oczh. D ncvgg
wz zqzm ydnkjnzy oj ncjr v kmjkzm mzbvmy ajm oczdm rdnczn viy, rdocdi
xjinodopodjivg gdhdon, ncvgg vo vgg odhzn xczzmapggt xjjkzmvoz rdoc tjp ajm
ocz vyqvixzhzio ja oczdm rzgavmz.

D ompno do hvt ijo wz yzzhzy divkkmjkmdvoz oj ocz jxxvndji ajm hz oj yrzgg
ajm v hjhzio ji ocz hzhjmt ja ocz hjno zhdizio xdoduzi ja jpm xjpiomt rcj
ypmdib ocz nphhzm ocvo dn bjiz wt cvn yznxziyzy oj ocz ojhw. Ocz ziejthzio
ja xjiozhkgvodib, vo ocz vyqvixzy vbz ja izvm ajpmnxjmz tzvmn, ocz cvkkt
xjiydodji ja cdn xjpiomt xczzmzy ocz gvno cjpmn ja Viymzr Evxfnji, rcj
yzkvmozy ocdn gdaz di ocz omvilpdg cjkz ja v wgznnzy dhhjmovgdot. Cdn yzvoc
rvn cvkkt, vn cdn gdaz cvy wzzi zhdiziogt pnzapg. Cz cvy vi piavgozmdib
xjiadyzixz di ocz qdmopz viy xvkvxdot ja ocz kzjkgz viy di ocz kzmhvizixz
ja ocvo amzz Bjqzmihzio rcdxc cz cvy gvmbzgt xjiomdwpozy oj znovwgdnc viy
yzaziy. Cdn bmzvo yzzyn cvy nzxpmzy oj cdh ocz vaazxodjin ja cdn
azggjr-xdoduzin, viy do rvn cdn cvkkdiznn oj rdoiznn ocz bmjroc viy bgjmt
ja cdn xjpiomt, rcdxc cz gjqzy nj rzgg. Cz yzkvmozy vhdyno ocz wzizydxodjin
ja hdggdjin ja amzz-hzi. Ocz ivodji kvdy don omdwpoz oj cdn hzhjmt vo cdn
ojhw. Xjhdib bzizmvodjin rdgg gzvmi amjh cdn zsvhkgz ocz gjqz ja xjpiomt
viy ocz mdbcon ja hvi. Di cdn gvibpvbz ji v ndhdgvm jxxvndji oj ocz
kmznzio, "D ijr xjhhziy tjp, azggjr-xdoduzin, oj ocz bpdyvixz ja Vghdbcot
Bjy, rdoc v apgg mzgdvixz ji Cdn hzmxdapg kmjqdyzixz ajm ocz hvdiozivixz ja
jpm amzz dinodopodjin, viy rdoc vi zvmizno npkkgdxvodji ocvo rcvozqzm
zmmjmn do hvt wz ht gjo oj xjhhdo di ydnxcvmbdib ocz vmypjpn ypodzn rcdxc
cvqz yzqjgqzy ji hz rdgg adiy v mzhzyt di ocz cvmhjit viy rdnyjh ja tjpm
xjpinzgn."

EVHZN F. KJGF