Lkrruc-Iozofkty ul znk Yktgzk gtj ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Atjkx znk hktomtgtz vxubojktik ul Grsomnze Muj znk xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk
Yzgzky gtj ul znk vkuvrk gxk gmgot hxuamnz zumkznkx zu jkrohkxgzk lux znk
vahroi muuj. Znk mxgzozajk ul znk tgzout zu znk Yubkxkomt Gxhozkx ul Grr
Nasgt Kbktzy ynuarj hk iussktyaxgzk cozn znk huatjrkyy hrkyyotmy cnoin ck
ktpue.

Vkgik, vrktze, gtj iutzktzsktz xkomt znxuamnuaz uax huxjkxy, gtj uax
hkrubkj iuatzxe vxkyktzy g yahrosk suxgr yvkizgirk zu znk cuxrj.

Znk zxuahrkj gtj atykzzrkj iutjozout ul yusk ul znk vxotiovgr Kaxuvkgt
vuckxy ngy ngj g tkikyygxe zktjktie zu inkiq gtj kshgxxgyy zxgjk gtj zu
jkvxkyy vxoiky znxuamnuaz grr iusskxiogr tgzouty, haz tuzcoznyzgtjotm znkyk
igayky, znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cozn znkox ghatjgtz vxujaizy, ngbk lkrz znkox
kllkizy rkyy ykbkxkre zngt gte uznkx iuatzxe, gtj grr uax mxkgz otzkxkyzy
gxk yzorr vxuyvkxuay gtj yaiikyylar.

Ot xkbokcotm znk mxkgz kbktzy ul znk vgyz ekgx gtj iutzxgyzotm znk gmozgzkj
gtj joyzaxhkj yzgzk ul uznkx iuatzxoky cozn uax uct zxgtwaor gtj ngvve
iutjozout, ck sge iutmxgzargzk uaxykrbky zngz ck gxk znk suyz lgbuxkj
vkuvrk ut znk lgik ul znk kgxzn. Cnork znk vkuvrk ul uznkx iuatzxoky gxk
yzxammrotm zu kyzghroyn lxkk otyzozazouty, atjkx cnoin sgt sge mubkxt
nosykrl, ck gxk ot znk gizagr ktpuesktz ul znks--g xoin otnkxozgtik lxus
uax lgznkxy. Cnork ktromnzktkj tgzouty ul Kaxuvk gxk iutbarykj gtj
joyzxgizkj he iobor cgx ux otzkyzotk yzxolk, ck ykzzrk grr uax vurozoigr
iutzxubkxyoky he znk vkgiklar kdkxioyk ul znk xomnzy ul lxkkskt gz znk
hgrruz hud.

Znk mxkgz xkvahroigt sgdos, yu jkkvre ktmxgbkt ut znk nkgxzy ul uax vkuvrk,
zngz znk corr ul znk sgpuxoze, iutyzozazoutgrre kdvxkyykj, yngrr vxkbgor,
oy uax yaxk yglkmagxj gmgotyz luxik gtj bourktik. Oz oy g yahpkiz ul payz
vxojk zngz uax lgsk gtj ingxgizkx gy g tgzout iutzotak xgvojre zu gjbgtik
ot znk kyzosgzout ul znk ioborofkj cuxrj.

Zu uax coyk gtj lxkk otyzozazouty oz oy zu hk gzzxohazkj zngz cnork uznkx
tgzouty ngbk ginokbkj mruxe gz znk vxoik ul znk yallkxotm, joyzxkyy, gtj
osvubkxoynsktz ul znkox vkuvrk, ck ngbk cut uax nutuxghrk vuyozout ot znk
sojyz ul gt atotzkxxavzkj vxuyvkxoze gtj ul gt otixkgyotm otjobojagr
iusluxz gtj ngvvotkyy.

O gs ngvve zu otluxs eua zngz uax xkrgzouty cozn grr tgzouty gxk lxoktjre
gtj vgioloi. Gjbgtzgmkuay zxkgzoky ul iusskxik ngbk hkkt iutirajkj coznot
znk rgyz luax ekgxy cozn Tkc Mxgtgjg, Vkxa, znk Zcu Yoioroky, Hkrmoas,
Ngtubkx, Urjkthaxm, gtj Skiqrkthaxm-Yinckxot. Vaxyaotm uax kdgsvrk, znk
xkyzxoizobk yeyzks ul Mxkgz Hxozgot, uax vxotiovgr luxkomt iayzuskx, ngy
hkkt xkrgdkj, g suxk rohkxgr iusskxiogr vuroie ngy hkkt gjuvzkj he uznkx
ktromnzktkj tgzouty, gtj uax zxgjk ngy hkkt mxkgzre ktrgxmkj gtj kdzktjkj.
Uax iuatzxe yzgtjy nomnkx ot znk xkyvkiz ul znk cuxrj zngt gz gte luxskx
vkxouj. Zu iutzotak zu uiiave znoy vxuaj vuyozout, oz oy utre tkikyygxe zu
vxkykxbk vkgik gtj lgoznlarre gjnkxk zu znk mxkgz gtj latjgsktzgr vxotiovrk
ul uax luxkomt vuroie ul tutotzkxlkxktik ot znk juskyzoi iutikxty ul uznkx
tgzouty. Ck xkiumtofk ot grr tgzouty znk xomnz cnoin ck ktpue uaxykrbky, zu
ingtmk gtj xkluxs znkox vurozoigr otyzozazouty giiuxjotm zu znkox uct corr
gtj vrkgyaxk. Nktik ck ju tuz ruuq hknotj kdoyzotm mubkxtsktzy igvghrk ul
sgotzgototm znkox uct gaznuxoze. Ck xkiumtofk grr yain gizagr mubkxtsktzy,
tuz utre lxus znk joizgzky ul zxak vuroie, haz lxus g ygixkj xkmgxj lux znk
otjkvktjktik ul tgzouty. Cnork znoy oy uax ykzzrkj vuroie, oz juky tuz
lurruc zngz ck igt kbkx hk otjollkxktz yvkizgzuxy ul znk vxumxkyy ul
rohkxgr vxotiovrky. Znk Mubkxtsktz gtj vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngorkj
cozn ktznayogys gtj jkromnz znk kyzghroynsktz ul znk Lxktin Xkvahroi, gy ck
tuc ngor znk klluxzy ot vxumxkyy zu atozk znk Yzgzky ul Mkxsgte ot g
iutlkjkxgzout yosorgx ot sgte xkyvkizy zu uax uct Lkjkxgr Atout. Ol znk
mxkgz gtj ktromnzktkj Mkxsgt Yzgzky, uiiaveotm, gy znke ju, g iktzxgr gtj
iussgtjotm vuyozout ot Kaxuvk, yngrr yaiikkj ot kyzghroynotm yain g
iutlkjkxgzkj mubkxtsktz, ykiaxotm gz znk ygsk zosk zu znk iozofkty ul kgin
Yzgzk ruigr mubkxtsktzy gjgvzkj zu znk vkiarogx iutjozout ul kgin, cozn
atxkyzxoizkj zxgjk gtj otzkxiuaxyk cozn kgin uznkx, oz corr hk gt osvuxzgtz
kxg ot znk noyzuxe ul nasgt kbktzy. Cnoryz oz corr iutyurojgzk gtj
yzxktmznkt znk vuckx ul Mkxsgte, oz sayz kyyktzogrre vxusuzk znk igayk ul
vkgik, iusskxik, ioborofgzout, gtj iutyzozazoutgr rohkxze znxuamnuaz znk
cuxrj.

Cozn grr znk Mubkxtsktzy ut znoy iutzotktz uax xkrgzouty, oz oy hkrokbkj,
gxk tuc ut g suxk lxoktjre gtj ygzoylgizuxe luuzotm zngt znke ngbk kbkx
hkkt gz gte luxskx vkxouj.

Yotik znk kdingtmk ul xgzoloigzouty ul znk zxkgze ul vkgik cozn Skdoiu uax
otzkxiuaxyk cozn znk Mubkxtsktz ul zngz Xkvahroi ngy hkkt ul znk suyz
lxoktjre ingxgizkx. Znk ktbue kdzxguxjotgxe gtj sotoyzkx vrktovuzktzogxe ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu Skdoiu ngy hkkt xkikobkj gtj giixkjozkj, gtj g
jovrusgzoi xkvxkyktzgzobk lxus Skdoiu ul yosorgx xgtq ngy hkkt xkikobkj gtj
giixkjozkj he znoy Mubkxtsktz. Znk gsoighrk xkrgzouty hkzckkt znk zcu
iuatzxoky, cnoin ngj hkkt yayvktjkj, ngbk hkkt ngvvore xkyzuxkj, gtj gxk
jkyzotkj, O zxayz, zu hk rutm vxkykxbkj. Znk zcu Xkvahroiy, huzn yozagzkj
ut znoy iutzotktz, gtj cozn iuzkxsotuay zkxxozuxoky, ngbk kbkxe suzobk ul
yesvgzne gtj ul otzkxkyz zu hotj znks zumkznkx ot vkxvkzagr gsoze.

Znoy mxgzoleotm iutjozout ul uax luxkomt xkrgzouty xktjkxy oz attkikyygxe
lux sk zu igrr euax gzzktzout suxk yvkioloigrre zu znks.

Oz ngy hkkt se iutyzgtz gos gtj jkyoxk zu iarzobgzk vkgik gtj iusskxik cozn
grr tgzouty. Zxgtwaoroze gz nusk gtj vkgiklar xkrgzouty ghxugj iutyzozazk
znk zxak vkxsgtktz vuroie ul uax iuatzxe. Cgx, znk yiuaxmk ul tgzouty,
yuskzosky hkiusky otkbozghrk, haz oy grcgey zu hk gbuojkj cnkt oz igt hk
jutk iutyoyzktzre cozn znk xomnzy gtj nutux ul g tgzout.

Utk ul znk suyz osvuxzgtz xkyarzy ul znk cgx otzu cnoin ck ckxk xkiktzre
luxikj cozn g tkomnhuxotm tgzout oy znk jksutyzxgzout oz ngy glluxjkj ul
znk sorozgxe yzxktmzn ul uax iuatzxe. Hkluxk znk rgzk cgx cozn Skdoiu
Kaxuvkgt gtj uznkx luxkomt vuckxy ktzkxzgotkj osvkxlkiz gtj kxxutkuay bokcy
ul uax vneyoigr yzxktmzn gy g tgzout gtj ul uax ghoroze zu vxuykiazk cgx,
gtj kyvkiogrre g cgx cgmkj uaz ul uaz uct iuatzxe. Znke ygc zngz uax
yzgtjotm Gxse ut znk vkgik kyzghroynsktz joj tuz kdikkj 10,000 skt.
Giiayzuskj znksykrbky zu sgotzgot ot vkgik rgxmk yzgtjotm gxsoky lux znk
vxuzkizout ul znxutky gmgotyz znkox uct yahpkizy, gy ckrr gy gmgotyz
luxkomt ktksoky, znke ngj tuz iutikobkj zngz oz cgy vuyyohrk lux g tgzout
coznuaz yain gt gxse, ckrr joyiovrotkj gtj ul rutm ykxboik, zu cgmk cgx
yaiikyylarre. Znke nkrj ot ruc xkvazk uax sorozog, gtj ckxk lgx lxus
xkmgxjotm znks gy gt kllkizobk luxik, atrkyy oz somnz hk lux zksvuxgxe
jklktyobk uvkxgzouty cnkt otbgjkj ut uax uct yuor. Znk kbktzy ul znk rgzk
cgx cozn Skdoiu ngbk tuz utre atjkikobkj znks, haz ngbk xksubkj kxxutkuay
osvxkyyouty cnoin vxkbgorkj zu yusk kdzktz kbkt gsutm g vuxzout ul uax uct
iuatzxeskt. Zngz cgx ngy jksutyzxgzkj zngz avut znk hxkgqotm uaz ul
nuyzorozoky tuz gtzoiovgzkj, gtj lux cnoin tu vxkbouay vxkvgxgzout ngj hkkt
sgjk, g buratzkkx gxse ul iozofkt yurjokxy kwagr zu bkzkxgt zxuuvy, gtj ot
tashkxy kwagr zu gte kskxmktie, igt ot g ynuxz vkxouj hk hxuamnz otzu znk
lokrj. Atroqk cngz cuarj ngbk uiiaxxkj ot gte uznkx iuatzxe, ck ckxk atjkx
tu tkikyyoze ul xkyuxzotm zu jxglzy ux iutyixovzouty. Ut znk iutzxgxe, yain
cgy znk tashkx ul buratzkkxy cnu vgzxouzoigrre zktjkxkj znkox ykxboiky zngz
znk inokl jolloiarze cgy ot sgqotm ykrkizouty gtj jkzkxsototm cnu ynuarj hk
joygvvuotzkj gtj iusvkrrkj zu xksgot gz nusk. Uax iozofkt yurjokxy gxk
atroqk znuyk jxgct lxus znk vuvargzout ul gte uznkx iuatzxe. Znke gxk
iusvuykj otjoyixosotgzkre ul grr vxulkyyouty gtj vaxyaozy--ul lgxskxy,
rgcekxy, vneyoiogty, skxingtzy, sgtalgizaxkxy, skingtoiy, gtj rghuxkxy--gtj
znoy tuz utre gsutm znk ulloikxy, haz znk vxobgzk yurjokxy ot znk xgtqy.
Uax iozofkt yurjokxy gxk atroqk znuyk ul gte uznkx iuatzxe ot uznkx
xkyvkizy. Znke gxk gxskj, gtj ngbk hkkt giiayzuskj lxus znkox euazn av zu
ngtjrk gtj ayk loxkgxsy, gtj g rgxmk vxuvuxzout ul znks, kyvkiogrre ot znk
Ckyzkxt gtj suxk tkcre ykzzrkj Yzgzky, gxk kdvkxz sgxqyskt. Znke gxk skt
cnu ngbk g xkvazgzout zu sgotzgot gz nusk he znkox muuj iutjaiz ot znk
lokrj. Znke gxk otzkrromktz, gtj znkxk oy gt otjobojagroze ul ingxgizkx
cnoin oy luatj ot znk xgtqy ul tu uznkx gxse. Ot hgzzrk kgin vxobgzk sgt,
gy ckrr gy kbkxe ulloikx, xomnzy tuz utre lux noy iuatzxe, haz lux mruxe
gtj joyzotizout gsutm noy lkrruc-iozofkty cnkt nk yngrr xkzaxt zu iobor
rolk.

Znk cgx cozn Skdoiu ngy jksutyzxgzkj tuz utre znk ghoroze ul znk Mubkxtsktz
zu uxmgtofk g taskxuay gxse avut g yajjkt igrr, haz gryu zu vxubojk oz cozn
grr znk satozouty gtj tkikyygxe yavvroky cozn joyvgzin, iutbktoktik, gtj
kgyk, gtj zu joxkiz ozy uvkxgzouty cozn klloioktie. Znk yzxktmzn ul uax
otyzozazouty ngy tuz utre hkkt joyvrgekj ot znk bgrux gtj yqorr ul uax
zxuuvy ktmgmkj ot gizobk ykxboik ot znk lokrj, haz ot znk uxmgtofgzout ul
znuyk kdkiazobk hxgtinky cnoin ckxk ingxmkj cozn znk mktkxgr joxkizout gtj
iutjaiz ul znk cgx. Cnork zuu mxkgz vxgoyk igt tuz hk hkyzuckj avut znk
ulloikxy gtj skt cnu luamnz uax hgzzrky, oz cuarj hk atpayz zu coznnurj
lxus znuyk ulloikxy tkikyygxore yzgzoutkj gz nusk, cnu ckxk ingxmkj cozn
znk jaze ul laxtoynotm znk Gxse ot vxuvkx zosk gtj gz vxuvkx vrgiky cozn
grr znk satozouty ul cgx gtj uznkx yavvroky yu tkikyygxe zu sgqk oz
klloioktz, znk iussktjgzout zu cnoin znke gxk ktzozrkj. Znk ixkjoz jak zu
znoy irgyy ul uax ulloikxy oy znk mxkgzkx cnkt oz oy iutyojkxkj zngz tu
gxse ot gtioktz ux sujkxt zosky cgy kbkt hkzzkx gvvuotzkj ux vxubojkj zngt
uax Gxse ot Skdoiu. Uvkxgzotm ot gt ktkse'y iuatzxe, xksubkj 2,000 sorky
lxus znk ykgz ul znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz, ozy jollkxktz iuxvy yvxkgj ubkx g
bgyz kdzktz ul zkxxozuxe, natjxkjy gtj kbkt znuaygtjy ul sorky gvgxz lxus
kgin uznkx, tuznotm ynuxz ul znk atzoxotm bomorgtik gtj kdzxguxjotgxe
ktkxme ul znkyk ulloikxy iuarj ngbk ktghrkj znks zu vxubojk znk Gxse gz grr
vuotzy gtj ot vxuvkx ykgyut cozn grr zngz cgy xkwaoxkj lux znk suyz
klloioktz ykxboik.

Oz oy haz gt giz ul payzoik zu jkirgxk zngz znk ulloikxy ot ingxmk ul znk
ykbkxgr kdkiazobk haxkgay, grr atjkx znk osskjogzk kek gtj yavkxboyout ul
znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx, vkxluxskj znkox xkyvkizobk jazoky cozn ghoroze,
ktkxme, gtj klloioktie. Znke ngbk xkgvkj rkyy ul znk mruxe ul znk cgx, tuz
ngbotm hkkt vkxyutgrre kdvuykj zu ozy vkxory ot hgzzrk, zngt znkox
iusvgtouty ot gxsy; haz coznuaz znkox luxkigyz, klloioktz goj, gtj
iuuvkxgzout znuyk ot znk lokrj cuarj tuz ngbk hkkt vxubojkj cozn znk gsvrk
skgty znke vuyykyykj ul ginokbotm lux znksykrbky gtj znkox iuatzxe znk
atlgjotm nutuxy cnoin znke ngbk cut lux huzn.

Cnkt grr znkyk lgizy gxk iutyojkxkj, oz sge ikgyk zu hk g sgzzkx ul yu sain
gsgfksktz ghxugj nuc oz ngvvktkj zngz uax tuhrk Gxse ot Skdoiu, xkmargxy
gtj buratzkkxy, ckxk boizuxouay avut kbkxe hgzzrklokrj, nuckbkx lkgxlar znk
ujjy gmgotyz znks.

Znk cgx cozn Skdoiu ngy znay larre jkbkruvkj znk igvgioze ul xkvahroigt
mubkxtsktzy zu vxuykiazk yaiikyylarre g payz gtj tkikyygxe luxkomt cgx cozn
grr znk bomux ayagrre gzzxohazkj zu suxk gxhozxgxe luxsy ul mubkxtsktz. Oz
ngy hkkt ayagr lux cxozkxy ut vahroi rgc zu osvazk zu xkvahroiy g cgtz ul
zngz atoze, iutiktzxgzout ul vaxvuyk, gtj bomux ul kdkiazout cnoin gxk
mktkxgrre gjsozzkj zu hkrutm zu znk sutgxinoigr gtj gxoyzuixgzoi luxsy; gtj
znoy lkgzaxk ul vuvargx mubkxtsktz ngy hkkt yavvuykj zu joyvrge ozykrl suxk
vgxzoiargxre ot znk iutjaiz ul g cgx igxxokj ut ot gt ktkse'y zkxxozuxe.
Znk cgx cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot ot 1812 cgy zu g mxkgz kdzktz iutlotkj coznot
uax uct rosozy, gtj ynkj haz rozzrk romnz ut znoy yahpkiz; haz znk cgx
cnoin ck ngbk payz iruykj he gt nutuxghrk vkgik kbotiky hkeutj grr juahz
zngz g vuvargx xkvxkyktzgzobk mubkxtsktz oy kwagr zu gte kskxmktie cnoin oy
roqkre zu gxoyk ot znk gllgoxy ul g tgzout.

Znk cgx cozn Skdoiu ngy jkbkruvkj suyz yzxoqotmre gtj iutyvoiauayre gtuznkx
lkgzaxk ot uax otyzozazouty. Oz oy zngz coznuaz iuyz zu znk Mubkxtsktz ux
jgtmkx zu uax rohkxzoky ck ngbk ot znk huyus ul uax yuiokze ul lxkkskt,
gbgorghrk ot g payz gtj tkikyygxe cgx, boxzagrre g yzgtjotm gxse ul
2,000,000 gxskj iozofkt yurjokxy, yain gy luamnz znk hgzzrky ul Skdoiu. Haz
uax sorozgxe yzxktmzn juky tuz iutyoyz grutk ot uax igvgioze lux kdzktjkj
gtj yaiikyylar uvkxgzouty ut rgtj. Znk Tgbe oy gt osvuxzgtz gxs ul znk
tgzoutgr jklktyk. Ol znk ykxboiky ul znk Tgbe ckxk tuz yu hxorrogtz gy
znuyk ul znk Gxse ot znk rgzk cgx cozn Skdoiu, oz cgy hkigayk znke ngj tu
ktkse zu skkz ut znkox uct krksktz. Cnork znk Gxse ngj uvvuxzatoze ul
vkxluxsotm suxk iutyvoiauay ykxboik, znk Tgbe rgxmkre vgxzoiovgzkj ot znk
iutjaiz ul znk cgx. Huzn hxgtinky ul znk ykxboik vkxluxskj znkox cnurk jaze
zu znk iuatzxe. Lux znk ghrk gtj mgrrgtz ykxboiky ul znk ulloikxy gtj skt
ul znk Tgbe, gizotm otjkvktjktzre gy ckrr gy ot iuuvkxgzout cozn uax
zxuuvy, ot znk iutwakyz ul znk Igroluxtogy, znk igvzaxk ul Bkxg Ixaf, gtj
znk ykofaxk gtj uiiavgzout ul uznkx osvuxzgtz vuyozouty ut znk Marl gtj
Vgioloi iugyzy, znk nomnkyz vxgoyk oy jak. Znkox bomorgtik, ktkxme, gtj
yqorr xktjkxkj znk suyz kllkizobk ykxboik ot kdirajotm satozouty ul cgx gtj
uznkx yavvroky lxus znk ktkse, cnork znke ykiaxkj g yglk ktzxgtik lux
ghatjgtz yavvroky lux uax uct Gxse. Uax kdzktjkj iusskxik cgy tucnkxk
otzkxxavzkj, gtj lux znoy ossatoze lxus znk kbory ul cgx znk iuatzxe oy
otjkhzkj zu znk Tgbe.

Nomn vxgoyk oy jak zu znk ulloikxy ul znk ykbkxgr kdkiazobk haxkgay,
tgbe-egxjy, gtj yzgzouty iuttkizkj cozn znk ykxboik, grr atjkx znk
osskjogzk joxkizout ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe, lux znk otjayzxe,
luxkyomnz, gtj ktkxme cozn cnoin kbkxeznotm cgy joxkizkj gtj laxtoynkj zu
mobk klloioktie zu zngz hxgtin ul znk ykxboik. Znk ygsk bomorgtik kdoyzkj
ot joxkizotm znk uvkxgzouty ul znk Tgbe gy ul znk Gxse. Znkxk cgy iutikxz
ul gizout gtj ul vaxvuyk hkzckkt znk nkgjy ul znk zcu gxsy ul znk ykxboik.
He znk uxjkxy cnoin ckxk lxus zosk zu zosk oyyakj, uax bkyykry ul cgx ut
znk Vgioloi gtj znk Marl ul Skdoiu ckxk yzgzoutkj ot vxuvkx zosk gtj ot
vxuvkx vuyozouty zu iuuvkxgzk klloioktzre cozn znk Gxse. He znoy skgty
znkox iushotkj vuckx cgy hxuamnz zu hkgx yaiikyylarre ut znk ktkse.

Znk mxkgz xkyarzy cnoin ngbk hkkt jkbkruvkj gtj hxuamnz zu romnz he znoy
cgx corr hk ul osskgyaxghrk osvuxzgtik ot znk lazaxk vxumxkyy ul uax
iuatzxe. Znke corr zktj vuckxlarre zu vxkykxbk ay lxus luxkomt iurroyouty,
gtj zu ktghrk ay zu vaxyak atotzkxxavzkjre uax inkxoynkj vuroie ul "vkgik
cozn grr tgzouty, ktzgtmrotm grrogtiky cozn tutk."

Uiiaveotm, gy ck ju, g suxk iussgtjotm vuyozout gsutm tgzouty zngt gz gte
luxskx vkxouj, uax jazoky gtj uax xkyvutyohorozoky zu uaxykrbky gtj zu
vuyzkxoze gxk iuxxkyvutjotmre otixkgykj. Znoy corr hk znk suxk uhbouay cnkt
ck iutyojkx znk bgyz gjjozouty cnoin ngbk hkkt xkiktzre sgjk zu uax
zkxxozuxogr vuyykyyouty gtj znkox mxkgz osvuxzgtik gtj bgrak.

Coznot rkyy zngt luax ekgxy znk gttkdgzout ul Zkdgy zu znk Atout ngy hkkt
iutyassgzkj; grr iutlroizotm zozrk zu znk Uxkmut Zkxxozuxe yuazn ul znk
luxze-totzn jkmxkk ul tuxzn rgzozajk, hkotm grr zngz cgy otyoyzkj ut he gte
ul se vxkjkikyyuxy, ngy hkkt gjpayzkj, gtj Tkc Skdoiu gtj Avvkx Igroluxtog
ngbk hkkt giwaoxkj he zxkgze. Znk gxkg ul znkyk ykbkxgr Zkxxozuxoky,
giiuxjotm zu g xkvuxz igxklarre vxkvgxkj he znk Iussoyyoutkx ul znk Mktkxgr
Rgtj Ulloik lxus znk suyz gaznktzoi otluxsgzout ot noy vuyykyyout, gtj
cnoin oy nkxkcozn zxgtysozzkj, iutzgoty 1,193,061 ywagxk sorky, ux
763,559,040 gixky; cnork znk gxkg ul znk xksgototm zcktze-totk Yzgzky gtj
znk zkxxozuxe tuz ekz uxmgtofkj otzu Yzgzky kgyz ul znk Xuiqe Suatzgoty
iutzgoty 2,059,513 ywagxk sorky, ux 1,318,126,058 gixky. Znkyk kyzosgzky
ynuc zngz znk zkxxozuxoky xkiktzre giwaoxkj, gtj ubkx cnoin uax kdirayobk
paxoyjoizout gtj jusotout ngbk hkkt kdzktjkj, iutyzozazk g iuatzxe suxk
zngt ngrl gy rgxmk gy grr zngz cnoin cgy nkrj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky hkluxk
znkox giwaoyozout. Ol Uxkmut hk kdirajkj lxus znk kyzosgzk, znkxk corr
yzorr xksgot coznot znk rosozy ul Zkdgy, Tkc Skdoiu, gtj Igroluxtog 851,598
ywagxk sorky, ux 545,012,720 gixky, hkotm gt gjjozout kwagr zu suxk zngt
utk-znoxj ul grr znk zkxxozuxe uctkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky hkluxk znkox
giwaoyozout, gtj, otirajotm Uxkmut, tkgxre gy mxkgz gt kdzktz ul zkxxozuxe
gy znk cnurk ul Kaxuvk, Xayyog utre kdikvzkj. Znk Soyyoyyovvo, yu rgzkre
znk lxutzokx ul uax iuatzxe, oy tuc utre ozy iktzkx. Cozn znk gjjozout ul
znk rgzk giwaoyozouty, znk Atozkj Yzgzky gxk tuc kyzosgzkj zu hk tkgxre gy
rgxmk gy znk cnurk ul Kaxuvk. Oz oy kyzosgzkj he znk Yavkxotzktjktz ul znk
Iugyz Yaxbke ot znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz zngz znk kdzktz ul znk ykgiugyz ul
Zkdgy ut znk Marl ul Skdoiu oy avcgxj ul 400 sorky; ul znk iugyz ul Avvkx
Igroluxtog ut znk Vgioloi, ul 970 sorky, gtj ul Uxkmut, otirajotm znk
Yzxgozy ul Laig, ul 650 sorky, sgqotm znk cnurk kdzktz ul ykgiugyz ut znk
Vgioloi 1,620 sorky gtj znk cnurk kdzktz ut huzn znk Vgioloi gtj znk Marl
ul Skdoiu 2,020 sorky. Znk rktmzn ul znk iugyz ut znk Gzrgtzoi lxus znk
tuxznkxt rosozy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gxuatj znk igvky ul Lruxojg zu znk
Yghotk, ut znk kgyzkxt huatjgxe ul Zkdgy, oy kyzosgzkj zu hk 3,100 sorky;
yu zngz znk gjjozout ul ykgiugyz, otirajotm Uxkmut, oy bkxe tkgxre
zcu-znoxjy gy mxkgz gy grr ck vuyykyykj hkluxk, gtj, kdirajotm Uxkmut, oy
gt gjjozout ul 1,370 sorky, hkotm tkgxre kwagr zu utk-ngrl ul znk kdzktz ul
iugyz cnoin ck vuyykyykj hkluxk znkyk giwaoyozouty. Ck ngbk tuc znxkk mxkgz
sgxozosk lxutzy--ut znk Gzrgtzoi, znk Marl ul Skdoiu, gtj znk
Vgioloi--sgqotm ot znk cnurk gt kdzktz ul ykgiugyz kdikkjotm 5,000 sorky.
Znoy oy znk kdzktz ul znk ykgiugyz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, tuz otirajotm
hgey, yuatjy, gtj ysgrr oxxkmargxozoky ul znk sgot ynuxk gtj ul znk ykg
oyrgtjy. Ol znkyk hk otirajkj, znk rktmzn ul znk ynuxk rotk ul iugyz, gy
kyzosgzkj he znk Yavkxotzktjktz ul znk Iugyz Yaxbke ot noy xkvuxz, cuarj hk
33,063 sorky.

Oz cuarj hk jolloiarz zu igriargzk znk bgrak ul znkyk ossktyk gjjozouty zu
uax zkxxozuxogr vuyykyyouty. Zkdgy, reotm iutzomauay zu znk ckyzkxt
huatjgxe ul Ruaoyogtg, kshxgiotm coznot ozy rosozy g vgxz ul znk tgbomghrk
zxohazgxe cgzkxy ul znk Soyyoyyovvo gtj gt kdzktyobk ykgiugyz, iuarj tuz
rutm ngbk xksgotkj ot znk ngtjy ul g luxkomt vuckx coznuaz ktjgtmkxotm znk
vkgik ul uax yuaznckyzkxt lxutzokx. Nkx vxujaizy ot znk boiotoze ul znk
zxohazgxoky ul znk Soyyoyyovvo sayz ngbk yuamnz g sgxqkz znxuamn znkyk
yzxkgsy, xattotm otzu gtj znxuamn uax zkxxozuxe, gtj znk jgtmkx ul
oxxozgzout gtj iurroyout ul otzkxkyzy hkzckkt Zkdgy gy g luxkomt yzgzk gtj
uaxykrbky cuarj ngbk hkkt ossotktz, cnork znk kshgxxgyysktzy ot znk
iusskxiogr otzkxiuaxyk hkzckkt znks sayz ngbk hkkt iutyzgtz gtj
atgbuojghrk. Ngj Zkdgy lgrrkt otzu znk ngtjy ux atjkx znk otlraktik gtj
iutzxur ul g yzxutm sgxozosk ux sorozgxe luxkomt vuckx, gy ynk somnz ngbk
jutk, znkyk jgtmkxy cuarj ngbk hkkt yzorr mxkgzkx. Znke ngbk hkkt gbuojkj
he nkx buratzgxe gtj vkgiklar gttkdgzout zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Zkdgy, lxus
nkx vuyozout, cgy g tgzaxgr gtj grsuyz otjoyvktyghrk vgxz ul uax
zkxxozuxoky. Luxzatgzkre, ynk ngy hkkt xkyzuxkj zu uax iuatzxe, gtj tuc
iutyzozazky utk ul znk Yzgzky ul uax Iutlkjkxgie, "avut gt kwagr luuzotm
cozn znk uxomotgr Yzgzky." Znk ygrahxoze ul irosgzk, znk lkxzoroze ul yuor,
vkiarogxre gjgvzkj zu znk vxujaizout ul yusk ul uax suyz bgraghrk yzgvrk
iussujozoky, gtj nkx iusskxiogr gjbgtzgmky sayz yuut sgqk nkx utk ul uax
suyz vuvaruay Yzgzky.

Tkc Skdoiu, znuamn yozagzkj ot znk otzkxoux gtj coznuaz g ykgiugyz, oy
qtuct zu iutzgot sain lkxzork rgtj, zu ghuatj ot xoin sotky ul znk vxkiouay
skzgry, gtj zu hk igvghrk ul yayzgototm g rgxmk vuvargzout. Lxus ozy
vuyozout oz oy znk otzkxskjogzk gtj iuttkizotm zkxxozuxe hkzckkt uax
ykzzrksktzy gtj uax vuyykyyouty ot Zkdgy gtj znuyk ut znk Vgioloi Iugyz.

Avvkx Igroluxtog, oxxkyvkizobk ul znk bgyz sotkxgr ckgrzn xkiktzre
jkbkruvkj znkxk, nurjy gz znoy jge, ot vuotz ul bgrak gtj osvuxzgtik, zu
znk xkyz ul znk Atout znk ygsk xkrgzout zngz Ruaoyogtg joj cnkt zngz lotk
zkxxozuxe cgy giwaoxkj lxus Lxgtik luxze-lobk ekgxy gmu. Kdzktjotm tkgxre
zkt jkmxkky ul rgzozajk grutm znk Vgioloi, gtj kshxgiotm znk utre yglk gtj
iussujouay ngxhuxy ut zngz iugyz lux sgte natjxkj sorky, cozn g zksvkxgzk
irosgzk gtj gt kdzktyobk otzkxoux ul lkxzork rgtjy, oz oy yigxikre vuyyohrk
zu kyzosgzk ozy ckgrzn atzor oz yngrr hk hxuamnz atjkx znk mubkxtsktz ul
uax rgcy gtj ozy xkyuaxiky larre jkbkruvkj. Lxus ozy vuyozout oz sayz
iussgtj znk xoin iusskxik ul Inotg, ul Gyog, ul znk oyrgtjy ul znk Vgioloi,
ul ckyzkxt Skdoiu, ul Iktzxgr Gskxoig, znk Yuazn Gskxoigt Yzgzky, gtj ul
znk Xayyogt vuyykyyouty huxjkxotm ut zngz uikgt. G mxkgz ksvuxoas corr
juahzrkyy yvkkjore gxoyk ut znk Igroluxtogt iugyz cnoin sge hk jkyzotkj zu
xobgr ot osvuxzgtik Tkc Uxrkgty ozykrl. Znk jkvuz ul znk bgyz iusskxik
cnoin sayz kdoyz ut znk Vgioloi corr vxuhghre hk gz yusk vuotz ut znk Hge
ul Ygt Lxgtioyiu, gtj corr uiiave znk ygsk xkrgzout zu znk cnurk ckyzkxt
iugyz ul zngz uikgt gy Tkc Uxrkgty juky zu znk bgrrke ul znk Soyyoyyovvo
gtj znk Marl ul Skdoiu. Zu znoy jkvuz uax taskxuay cngrk ynovy corr xkyuxz
cozn znkox igxmuky zu zxgjk, xkloz, gtj uhzgot yavvroky. Znoy ul ozykrl
corr rgxmkre iutzxohazk zu haorj av g ioze, cnoin cuarj yuut hkiusk znk
iktzkx ul g mxkgz gtj xgvojre otixkgyotm iusskxik. Yozagzkj ut g yglk
ngxhux, yalloioktzre igvgiouay lux grr znk tgboky gy ckrr gy znk sgxotk ul
znk cuxrj, gtj iutbktoktz zu kdikrrktz zoshkx lux ynovhaorjotm, uctkj he
znk Atozkj Yzgzky, oz sayz hkiusk uax mxkgz Ckyzkxt tgbgr jkvuz.

Oz cgy qtuct zngz sotky ul znk vxkiouay skzgry kdoyzkj zu g iutyojkxghrk
kdzktz ot Igroluxtog gz znk zosk ul ozy giwaoyozout. Xkiktz joyiubkxoky
xktjkx oz vxuhghrk zngz znkyk sotky gxk suxk kdzktyobk gtj bgraghrk zngt
cgy gtzoiovgzkj. Znk giiuatzy ul znk ghatjgtik ul murj ot zngz zkxxozuxe
gxk ul yain gt kdzxguxjotgxe ingxgizkx gy cuarj yigxikre iussgtj hkrokl
ckxk znke tuz iuxxuhuxgzkj he znk gaznktzoi xkvuxzy ul ulloikxy ot znk
vahroi ykxboik cnu ngbk boyozkj znk sotkxgr joyzxoiz gtj jkxobkj znk lgizy
cnoin znke jkzgor lxus vkxyutgr uhykxbgzout. Xkraizgtz zu ixkjoz znk
xkvuxzy ot mktkxgr ioxiargzout gy zu znk wagtzoze ul murj, znk ulloikx
iussgtjotm uax luxiky ot Igroluxtog boyozkj znk sotkxgr joyzxoiz ot Pare
rgyz lux znk vaxvuyk ul uhzgototm giiaxgzk otluxsgzout ut znk yahpkiz. Noy
xkvuxz zu znk Cgx Jkvgxzsktz ul znk xkyarz ul noy kdgsotgzout gtj znk lgizy
uhzgotkj ut znk yvuz oy nkxkcozn rgoj hkluxk Iutmxkyy. Cnkt nk boyozkj znk
iuatzxe znkxk ckxk ghuaz 4,000 vkxyuty ktmgmkj ot iurrkizotm murj. Znkxk oy
kbkxe xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz znk tashkx ul vkxyuty yu ksvruekj ngy yotik
hkkt gamsktzkj. Znk kdvruxgzouty grxkgje sgjk cgxxgtz znk hkrokl zngz znk
yavvre oy bkxe rgxmk gtj zngz murj oy luatj gz bgxouay vrgiky ot gt
kdzktyobk joyzxoiz ul iuatzxe.

Otluxsgzout xkikobkj lxus ulloikxy ul znk Tgbe gtj uznkx yuaxiky, znuamn
tuz yu larr gtj sotazk, iutloxsy znk giiuatzy ul znk iussgtjkx ul uax
sorozgxe luxik ot Igroluxtog. Oz gvvkgxy gryu lxus znkyk xkvuxzy zngz sotky
ul waoiqyorbkx gxk luatj ot znk boiotoze ul znk murj xkmout. Utk ul znks oy
tuc hkotm cuxqkj, gtj oy hkrokbkj zu hk gsutm znk suyz vxujaizobk ot znk
cuxrj.

Znk kllkizy vxujaikj he znk joyiubkxe ul znkyk xoin sotkxgr jkvuyozy gtj
znk yaiikyy cnoin ngy gzzktjkj znk rghuxy ul znuyk cnu ngbk xkyuxzkj zu
znks ngbk vxujaikj g yaxvxoyotm ingtmk ot znk yzgzk ul gllgoxy ot
Igroluxtog. Rghux iussgtjy g suyz kduxhozgtz vxoik, gtj grr uznkx vaxyaozy
haz zngz ul ykgxinotm lux znk vxkiouay skzgry gxk ghgtjutkj. Tkgxre znk
cnurk ul znk sgrk vuvargzout ul znk iuatzxe ngbk mutk zu znk murj
joyzxoizy. Ynovy gxxobotm ut znk iugyz gxk jkykxzkj he znkox ixkcy gtj
znkox buegmky yayvktjkj lux cgtz ul ygoruxy. Uax iussgtjotm ulloikx znkxk
ktzkxzgoty gvvxknktyouty zngz yurjokxy igt tuz hk qkvz ot znk vahroi
ykxboik coznuaz g rgxmk otixkgyk ul vge. Jkykxzouty ot noy iussgtj ngbk
hkiusk lxkwaktz, gtj nk xkiussktjy zngz znuyk cnu yngrr coznyzgtj znk
yzxutm zksvzgzout gtj xksgot lgoznlar ynuarj hk xkcgxjkj.

Znoy ghatjgtik ul murj gtj znk grr-ktmxuyyotm vaxyaoz ul oz ngbk grxkgje
igaykj ot Igroluxtog gt atvxkikjktzkj xoyk ot znk vxoik ul grr znk
tkikyygxoky ul rolk.

Zngz ck sge znk suxk yvkkjore gtj larre gbgor uaxykrbky ul znk atjkbkruvkj
ckgrzn ul znkyk sotky, oz oy jkkskj ul bgyz osvuxzgtik zngz g hxgtin ul znk
Sotz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky hk gaznuxofkj zu hk kyzghroynkj gz euax vxkyktz
ykyyout ot Igroluxtog. Gsutm uznkx yomtgr gjbgtzgmky cnoin cuarj xkyarz
lxus yain gt kyzghroynsktz cuarj hk zngz ul xgoyotm znk murj zu ozy vgx
bgrak ot zngz zkxxozuxe. G hxgtin sotz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gz znk mxkgz
iusskxiogr jkvuz ut znk ckyz iugyz cuarj iutbkxz otzu uax uct iuot tuz utre
znk murj jkxobkj lxus uax uct xoin sotky, haz gryu znk harrout gtj yvkiok
cnoin uax iusskxik sge hxotm lxus znk cnurk ckyz iugyz ul Iktzxgr gtj Yuazn
Gskxoig. Znk ckyz iugyz ul Gskxoig gtj znk gjpgiktz otzkxoux kshxgik znk
xoinkyz gtj hkyz sotky ul Skdoiu, Tkc Mxgtgjg, Iktzxgr Gskxoig, Inoro, gtj
Vkxa. Znk harrout gtj yvkiok jxgct lxus znkyk iuatzxoky, gtj kyvkiogrre
lxus znuyk ul ckyzkxt Skdoiu gtj Vkxa, zu gt gsuatz ot bgrak ul sgte
sorrouty ul jurrgxy, gxk tuc gttagrre jobkxzkj gtj igxxokj he znk ynovy ul
Mxkgz Hxozgot zu nkx uct vuxzy, zu hk xkiuotkj ux aykj zu yayzgot nkx
tgzoutgr hgtq, gtj znay iutzxohazk zu otixkgyk nkx ghoroze zu iussgtj yu
sain ul znk iusskxik ul znk cuxrj. Ol g hxgtin sotz hk kyzghroynkj gz znk
mxkgz iusskxiogr vuotz avut zngz iugyz, g bgyz gsuatz ul harrout gtj yvkiok
cuarj lruc znoznkx zu hk xkiuotkj, gtj vgyy znktik zu Tkc Uxrkgty, Tkc
Euxq, gtj uznkx Gzrgtzoi iozoky. Znk gsuatz ul uax iutyzozazoutgr iaxxktie
gz nusk cuarj hk mxkgzre otixkgykj, cnork ozy ioxiargzout ghxugj cuarj hk
vxusuzkj. Oz oy ckrr qtuct zu uax skxingtzy zxgjotm zu Inotg gtj znk ckyz
iugyz ul Gskxoig zngz mxkgz otiutbktoktik gtj ruyy gxk kdvkxoktikj lxus znk
lgiz zngz uax iuoty gxk tuz iaxxktz gz znkox vgx bgrak ot znuyk iuatzxoky.

Znk vuckxy ul Kaxuvk, lgx xksubkj lxus znk ckyz iugyz ul Gskxoig he znk
Gzrgtzoi Uikgt, cnoin otzkxbktky, gtj he g zkjouay gtj jgtmkxuay tgbomgzout
gxuatj znk yuaznkxt igvk ul znk iutzotktz ul Gskxoig, igt tkbkx
yaiikyylarre iusvkzk cozn znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot znk xoin gtj kdzktyobk
iusskxik cnoin oy uvktkj zu ay gz yu sain rkyy iuyz he znk giwaoyozout ul
Igroluxtog.

Znk bgyz osvuxzgtik gtj iusskxiogr gjbgtzgmky ul Igroluxtog ngbk nkxkzuluxk
xksgotkj atjkbkruvkj he znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk iuatzxe ul cnoin oz
iutyzozazkj g vgxz. Tuc zngz znoy lotk vxubotik oy g vgxz ul uax iuatzxe,
grr znk Yzgzky ul znk Atout, yusk suxk osskjogzkre gtj joxkizre zngt
uznkxy, gxk jkkvre otzkxkyzkj ot znk yvkkje jkbkruvsktz ul ozy ckgrzn gtj
xkyuaxiky. Tu ykizout ul uax iuatzxe oy suxk otzkxkyzkj ux corr hk suxk
hktklozkj zngt znk iusskxiogr, tgbomgzotm, gtj sgtalgizaxotm otzkxkyzy ul
znk Kgyzkxt Yzgzky. Uax vrgtzotm gtj lgxsotm otzkxkyzy ot kbkxe vgxz ul znk
Atout corr Hk mxkgzre hktklozkj he oz. Gy uax iusskxik gtj tgbomgzout gxk
ktrgxmkj gtj kdzktjkj, uax kdvuxzy ul gmxoiarzaxgr vxujaizy gtj ul
sgtalgizaxky corr hk otixkgykj, gtj ot znk tkc sgxqkzy znay uvktkj znke igt
tuz lgor zu iussgtj xksatkxgzotm gtj vxulozghrk vxoiky.

Znk giwaoyozout ul Igroluxtog gtj Tkc Skdoiu, znk ykzzrksktz ul znk Uxkmut
huatjgxe, gtj znk gttkdgzout ul Zkdgy, kdzktjotm zu znk Xou Mxgtjk, gxk
xkyarzy cnoin, iushotkj, gxk ul mxkgzkx iutykwaktik gtj corr gjj suxk zu
znk yzxktmzn gtj ckgrzn ul znk tgzout zngt gte cnoin ngbk vxkikjkj znks
yotik znk gjuvzout ul znk Iutyzozazout.

Haz zu kllkiz znkyk mxkgz xkyarzy tuz utre Igroluxtog, haz Tkc Skdoiu, sayz
hk hxuamnz atjkx znk iutzxur ul xkmargxre uxmgtofkj mubkxtsktzy. Znk
kdoyzotm iutjozout ul Igroluxtog gtj ul zngz vgxz ul Tkc Skdoiu reotm ckyz
ul znk Xou Mxgtjk gtj coznuaz znk rosozy ul Zkdgy osvkxouayre jksgtjy zngz
Iutmxkyy ynuarj gz ozy vxkyktz ykyyout uxmgtofk Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktzy
ubkx znks.

Avut znk kdingtmk ul xgzoloigzouty ul znk zxkgze ul vkgik cozn Skdoiu, ut
znk 30zn ul Sge rgyz, znk zksvuxgxe mubkxtsktzy cnoin ngj hkkt kyzghroynkj
ubkx Tkc Skdoiu gtj Igroluxtog he uax sorozgxe gtj tgbgr iussgtjkxy he
boxzak ul znk xomnzy ul cgx ikgykj zu jkxobk gte uhromgzuxe luxik lxus zngz
yuaxik ul gaznuxoze, gtj ngbotm hkkt ikjkj zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky, grr
mubkxtsktz gtj iutzxur ubkx znks atjkx znk gaznuxoze ul Skdoiu ngj ikgykj
zu kdoyz. Osvxkyykj cozn znk tkikyyoze ul kyzghroynotm Zkxxozuxogr
mubkxtsktzy ubkx znks, O xkiussktjkj znk yahpkiz zu znk lgbuxghrk
iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy ot se skyygmk iussatoigzotm znk xgzolokj zxkgze
ul vkgik, ut znk 6zn ul Pare rgyz, gtj otbuqkj znkox gizout gz zngz
ykyyout. Iutmxkyy gjpuaxtkj coznuaz sgqotm gte vxuboyout lux znkox
mubkxtsktz. Znk otnghozgtzy he znk zxgtylkx ul znkox iuatzxe ngj hkiusk
ktzozrkj zu znk hktkloz ul uax rgcy gtj Iutyzozazout, gtj ekz ckxk rklz
coznuaz gte xkmargxre uxmgtofkj mubkxtsktz. Yotik zngz zosk znk bkxe
rosozkj vuckx vuyykyykj he znk Kdkiazobk ngy hkkt kdkxioykj zu vxkykxbk gtj
vxuzkiz znks lxus znk otkbozghrk iutykwaktiky ul g yzgzk ul gtgxine. Znk
utre mubkxtsktz cnoin xksgotkj cgy zngz kyzghroynkj he znk sorozgxe
gaznuxoze jaxotm znk cgx. Xkmgxjotm znoy zu hk g jk lgizu mubkxtsktz, gtj
zngz he znk vxkyaskj iutyktz ul znk otnghozgtzy oz somnz hk iutzotakj
zksvuxgxore, znke ckxk gjboykj zu iutluxs gtj yahsoz zu oz lux znk ynuxz
otzkxbktotm vkxouj hkluxk Iutmxkyy cuarj gmgot gyykshrk gtj iuarj rkmoyrgzk
ut znk yahpkiz. Znk bokcy ktzkxzgotkj he znk Kdkiazobk ut znoy vuotz gxk
iutzgotkj ot g iussatoigzout ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk jgzkj znk 7zn ul
Uizuhkx rgyz, cnoin cgy luxcgxjkj lux vahroigzout zu Igroluxtog gtj Tkc
Skdoiu, g iuve ul cnoin oy nkxkcozn zxgtysozzkj. Znk ysgrr sorozgxe luxik
ul znk Xkmargx Gxse cnoin cgy ykxbotm coznot znk rosozy ul znk giwaoxkj
zkxxozuxoky gz znk iruyk ul znk cgx cgy xkzgotkj ot znks, gtj gjjozoutgr
luxiky ngbk hkkt uxjkxkj znkxk lux znk vxuzkizout ul znk otnghozgtzy gtj zu
vxkykxbk gtj ykiaxk znk xomnzy gtj otzkxkyzy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Tu xkbktak ngy hkkt ux iuarj hk iurrkizkj gz znk vuxzy ot Igroluxtog,
hkigayk Iutmxkyy lgorkj zu gaznuxofk znk kyzghroynsktz ul iayzus-nuayky ux
znk gvvuotzsktz ul ulloikxy lux zngz vaxvuyk.

Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe, he g ioxiargx rkzzkx gjjxkyykj zu iurrkizuxy
ul znk iayzusy ut znk 7zn jge ul Uizuhkx rgyz, g iuve ul cnoin oy nkxkcozn
zxgtysozzkj, kdkxioykj grr znk vuckx cozn cnoin nk cgy otbkyzkj he rgc.

Ot vaxyagtik ul znk giz ul znk 14zn ul Gamayz rgyz, kdzktjotm znk hktkloz
ul uax vuyz-ulloik rgcy zu znk vkuvrk ul Igroluxtog, znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr
ngy gvvuotzkj zcu gmktzy, cnu ngbk vxuikkjkj, znk utk zu Igroluxtog gtj znk
uznkx zu Uxkmut, cozn gaznuxoze zu sgqk znk tkikyygxe gxxgtmksktzy lux
igxxeotm ozy vxuboyouty otzu kllkiz.

Znk sutznre rotk ul sgor yzkgskxy lxus Vgtgsg zu Gyzuxog ngy hkkt xkwaoxkj
zu "yzuv gtj jkrobkx gtj zgqk sgory gz Ygt Jokmu, Sutzkxke, gtj Ygt
Lxgtioyiu." Znkyk sgor yzkgskxy, iuttkizkj he znk Oyznsay ul Vgtgsg cozn
znk rotk ul sgor yzkgskxy ut znk Gzrgtzoi hkzckkt Tkc Euxq gtj Ingmxky,
corr kyzghroyn g xkmargx sgor iussatoigzout cozn Igroluxtog.

Oz oy uax yurkst jaze zu vxubojk cozn znk rkgyz vxgizoighrk jkrge lux Tkc
Skdoiu gtj Igroluxtog xkmargxre uxmgtofkj Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktzy. Znk
igayky ul znk lgoraxk zu ju znoy gz znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy gxk ckrr
qtuct gtj jkkvre zu hk xkmxkzzkj. Cozn znk uvktotm vxuyvkizy ul otixkgykj
vxuyvkxoze gtj tgzoutgr mxkgztkyy cnoin znk giwaoyozout ul znkyk xoin gtj
kdzktyobk zkxxozuxogr vuyykyyouty glluxjy, nuc oxxgzoutgr oz cuarj hk zu
luxkmu ux zu xkpkiz znkyk gjbgtzgmky he znk gmozgzout ul g juskyzoi
wakyzout cnoin oy iukbgr cozn znk kdoyzktik ul uax Mubkxtsktz ozykrl, gtj
zu ktjgtmkx he otzkxtgr yzxolky, mkumxgvnoigr joboyouty, gtj nkgzkj
iutzkyzy lux vurozoigr vuckx, ux lux gte uznkx igayk, znk ngxsute ul znk
mruxouay Atout ul uax iutlkjkxgzkj Yzgzky--zngz Atout cnoin hotjy ay
zumkznkx gy utk vkuvrk, gtj cnoin lux yodze ekgxy ngy hkkt uax ynokrj gtj
vxuzkizout gmgotyz kbkxe jgtmkx. Ot znk keky ul znk cuxrj gtj ul vuyzkxoze
nuc zxobogr gtj otyomtoloigtz corr hk grr uax otzkxtgr joboyouty gtj
yzxammrky iusvgxkj cozn znk vxkykxbgzout ul znoy Atout ul znk Yzgzky ot grr
ozy bomux gtj cozn grr ozy iuatzrkyy hrkyyotmy! Tu vgzxouz cuarj lusktz gtj
kdiozk mkumxgvnoigr gtj ykizoutgr joboyouty. Tu rubkx ul noy iuatzxe cuarj
jkrohkxgzkre igriargzk znk bgrak ul znk Atout. Lazaxk mktkxgzouty cuarj
ruuq ot gsgfksktz avut znk lurre ul yain g iuaxyk. Uznkx tgzouty gz znk
vxkyktz jge cuarj ruuq avut oz cozn gyzutoynsktz, gtj yain ul znks gy
jkyoxk zu sgotzgot gtj vkxvkzagzk znxutky gtj sutgxinoigr ux gxoyzuixgzoigr
vxotiovrky corr bokc oz cozn kdarzgzout gtj jkromnz, hkigayk ot oz znke
corr ykk znk krksktzy ul lgizout, cnoin znke nuvk sayz arzosgzkre ubkxzaxt
uax yeyzks. Uaxy oy znk mxkgz kdgsvrk ul g vxuyvkxuay gtj lxkk
ykrl-mubkxtkj xkvahroi, iussgtjotm znk gjsoxgzout gtj znk osozgzout ul grr
znk rubkxy ul lxkkjus znxuamnuaz znk cuxrj. Nuc yurkst, znkxkluxk, oy znk
jaze, nuc osvxkyyobk znk igrr avut ay gtj avut grr vgxzy ul uax iuatzxe, zu
iarzobgzk g vgzxouzoi yvoxoz ul ngxsute, ul muuj-lkrrucynov, ul iusvxusoyk
gtj sazagr iutikyyout, ot znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk otiusvgxghrk yeyzks ul
mubkxtsktz luxskj he uax lgznkxy ot znk sojyz ul grsuyz otyavkxghrk
jolloiarzoky, gtj zxgtysozzkj zu ay cozn znk otpatizout zngz ck ynuarj
ktpue ozy hrkyyotmy gtj ngtj oz juct atosvgoxkj zu znuyk cnu sge iusk glzkx
ay.

Ot bokc ul znk nomn gtj xkyvutyohrk jazoky cnoin ck uck zu uaxykrbky gtj zu
sgtqotj, O zxayz eua sge hk ghrk gz euax vxkyktz ykyyout zu gvvxugin znk
gjpayzsktz ul znk utre juskyzoi wakyzout cnoin ykxouayre znxkgzkty, ux
vxuhghre kbkx igt znxkgzkt, zu joyzaxh znk ngxsute gtj yaiikyylar
uvkxgzouty ul uax yeyzks.

Znk ossktykre bgraghrk vuyykyyouty ul Tkc Skdoiu gtj Igroluxtog gxk grxkgje
otnghozkj he g iutyojkxghrk vuvargzout. Gzzxgizkj he znkox mxkgz lkxzoroze,
znkox sotkxgr ckgrzn, znkox iusskxiogr gjbgtzgmky, gtj znk ygrahxoze ul znk
irosgzk, ksomxgtzy lxus znk urjkx Yzgzky ot mxkgz tashkxy gxk grxkgje
vxkvgxotm zu ykkq tkc nusky ot znkyk otbozotm xkmouty. Yngrr znk
joyyosorgxoze ul znk juskyzoi otyzozazouty ot znk jollkxktz Yzgzky vxkbktz
ay lxus vxubojotm lux znks yaozghrk mubkxtsktzy? Znkyk otyzozazouty kdoyzkj
gz znk gjuvzout ul znk Iutyzozazout, haz znk uhyzgirky cnoin znke
otzkxvuykj ckxk ubkxiusk he zngz yvoxoz ul iusvxusoyk cnoin oy tuc otbuqkj.
Ot g iutlroiz ul uvotouty ux ul otzkxkyzy, xkgr ux osgmotgxe, hkzckkt
jollkxktz ykizouty ul uax iuatzxe, tkoznkx igt payzre jksgtj grr cnoin oz
somnz jkyoxk zu uhzgot. Kgin, ot znk zxak yvoxoz ul uax otyzozazouty,
ynuarj iutikjk yuskznotm zu znk uznkx.

Uax mgrrgtz luxiky ot znk Skdoigt cgx, he cnuyk vgzxouzoys gtj atvgxgrrkrkj
jkkjy ul gxsy ck uhzgotkj znkyk vuyykyyouty gy gt otjkstoze lux uax payz
jksgtjy gmgotyz Skdoiu, ckxk iusvuykj ul iozofkty cnu hkrutmkj zu tu utk
Yzgzk ux ykizout ul uax Atout. Znke ckxk skt lxus yrgbknurjotm gtj
tutyrgbknurjotm Yzgzky, lxus znk Tuxzn gtj znk Yuazn, lxus znk Kgyz gtj znk
Ckyz. Znke ckxk grr iusvgtouty ot gxsy gtj lkrruc-iozofkty ul znk ygsk
iussut iuatzxe, ktmgmkj ot znk ygsk iussut igayk. Cnkt vxuykiazotm zngz cgx
znke ckxk hxkznxkt gtj lxoktjy, gtj yngxkj groqk cozn kgin uznkx iussut
zuory, jgtmkxy, gtj yallkxotmy. Tuc, cnkt znkox cuxq oy ktjkj, cnkt vkgik
oy xkyzuxkj, gtj znke xkzaxt gmgot zu znkox nusky, vaz ull znk nghorosktzy
ul cgx, zgqk znkox vrgiky ot yuiokze, gtj xkyask znkox vaxyaozy ot iobor
rolk, yaxkre g yvoxoz ul ngxsute gtj iutikyyout gtj ul kwagr xkmgxj lux znk
xomnzy ul grr gtj ul grr ykizouty ul znk Atout uamnz zu vxkbgor ot
vxubojotm mubkxtsktzy lux znk giwaoxkj zkxxozuxoky--znk lxaozy ul znkox
iussut ykxboik. Znk cnurk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj ul kbkxe Yzgzk,
iutzxohazkj zu jklxge znk kdvktyky ul zngz cgx, gtj oz cuarj tuz hk payz
lux gte utk ykizout zu kdirajk gtuznkx lxus grr vgxzoiovgzout ot znk
giwaoxkj zkxxozuxe. Znoy cuarj tuz hk ot iutyutgtik cozn znk payz yeyzks ul
mubkxtsktz cnoin znk lxgskxy ul znk Iutyzozazout gjuvzkj.

Znk wakyzout oy hkrokbkj zu hk xgznkx ghyzxgiz zngt vxgizoigr cnkznkx
yrgbkxe kbkx igt ux cuarj kdoyz ot gte vuxzout ul znk giwaoxkj zkxxozuxe
kbkt ol oz ckxk rklz zu znk uvzout ul znk yrgbknurjotm Yzgzky znksykrbky.
Lxus znk tgzaxk ul znk irosgzk gtj vxujaizouty ot sain znk rgxmkx vuxzout
ul oz oz oy ikxzgot oz iuarj tkbkx kdoyz, gtj ot znk xksgotjkx znk
vxuhghorozoky gxk oz cuarj tuz. Haz nuckbkx znoy sge hk, znk wakyzout,
otburbotm, gy oz juky, g vxotiovrk ul kwagroze ul xomnzy ul znk ykvgxgzk
gtj ykbkxgr Yzgzky gy kwagr iuvgxztkxy ot znk Iutlkjkxgie, ynuarj tuz hk
joyxkmgxjkj.

Ot uxmgtofotm mubkxtsktzy ubkx znkyk zkxxozuxoky tu jaze osvuykj ut
Iutmxkyy he znk Iutyzozazout xkwaoxky zngz znke ynuarj rkmoyrgzk ut znk
yahpkiz ul yrgbkxe, cnork znkox vuckx zu ju yu oy tuz utre ykxouayre
wakyzoutkj, haz jktokj he sgte ul znk yuatjkyz kdvuatjkxy ul zngz
otyzxasktz. Cnkznkx Iutmxkyy yngrr rkmoyrgzk ux tuz, znk vkuvrk ul znk
giwaoxkj zkxxozuxoky, cnkt gyykshrkj ot iutbktzout zu luxs Yzgzk
iutyzozazouty, corr vuyykyy znk yurk gtj kdirayobk vuckx zu jkzkxsotk lux
znksykrbky cnkznkx yrgbkxe yngrr ux yngrr tuz kdoyz coznot znkox rosozy. Ol
Iutmxkyy yngrr ghyzgot lxus otzkxlkxotm cozn znk wakyzout, znk vkuvrk ul
znkyk zkxxozuxoky corr hk rklz lxkk zu gjpayz oz gy znke sge znotq vxuvkx
cnkt znke gvvre lux gjsoyyout gy Yzgzky otzu znk Atout. Tu ktgizsktz ul
Iutmxkyy iuarj xkyzxgot znk vkuvrk ul gte ul znk yubkxkomt Yzgzky ul znk
Atout, urj ux tkc, Tuxzn ux Yuazn, yrgbknurjotm ux tutyrgbknurjotm, lxus
jkzkxsototm znk ingxgizkx ul znkox uct juskyzoi otyzozazouty gy znke sge
jkks coyk gtj vxuvkx. Gte gtj grr znk Yzgzky vuyykyy znoy xomnz, gtj
Iutmxkyy igt tuz jkvxobk znks ul oz. Znk vkuvrk ul Mkuxmog somnz ol znke
inuyk yu grzkx znkox iutyzozazout gy zu ghuroyn yrgbkxe coznot ozy rosozy,
gtj znk vkuvrk ul Bkxsutz somnz yu grzkx znkox iutyzozazout gy zu gjsoz
yrgbkxe coznot ozy rosozy. Huzn Yzgzky cuarj vuyykyy znk xomnz, znuamn, gy
grr qtuc, oz oy tuz vxuhghrk zngz koznkx cuarj kdkxz oz.

Oz oy luxzatgzk lux znk vkgik gtj ngxsute ul znk Atout zngz znoy wakyzout
oy ot ozy tgzaxk zksvuxgxe gtj igt utre iutzotak lux znk hxokl vkxouj cnoin
corr otzkxbktk hkluxk Igroluxtog gtj Tkc Skdoiu sge hk gjsozzkj gy Yzgzky
otzu znk Atout. Lxus znk zojk ul vuvargzout tuc lrucotm otzu znks oz oy
nomnre vxuhghrk zngz znoy corr yuut uiiax.

Iutyojkxotm znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky gtj znk iozofkty ul znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky gy
kwagry gtj ktzozrkj zu kwagr xomnzy atjkx znk Iutyzozazout, ol znoy ckxk gt
uxomotgr wakyzout oz somnz ckrr hk otyoyzkj ut zngz znk vxotiovrk ul
tutotzkxlkxktik oy znk zxak juizxotk gtj zngz Iutmxkyy iuarj tuz, ot znk
ghyktik ul gte kdvxkyy mxgtz ul vuckx, otzkxlkxk cozn znkox xkrgzobk
xomnzy. Avut g mxkgz kskxmktie, nuckbkx, gtj atjkx sktgiotm jgtmkxy zu znk
Atout, znk Soyyuaxo iusvxusoyk rotk ot xkyvkiz zu yrgbkxe cgy gjuvzkj. Znk
ygsk rotk cgy kdzktjkj lgxznkx ckyz ot znk giwaoyozout ul Zkdgy. Glzkx gt
giwaokyiktik ul tkgxre znoxze ekgxy ot znk vxotiovrk ul iusvxusoyk
xkiumtofkj gtj kyzghroynkj he znkyk gizy, gtj zu gbuoj znk jgtmkx zu znk
Atout cnoin somnz lurruc ol oz ckxk tuc joyxkmgxjkj, O ngbk nkxkzuluxk
kdvxkyykj znk uvotout zngz zngz rotk ul iusvxusoyk ynuarj hk kdzktjkj ut
znk vgxgrrkr ul 36  30' lxus znk ckyzkxt huatjgxe ul Zkdgy, cnkxk oz
tuc zkxsotgzky, zu znk Vgioloi Uikgt. Znoy oy znk sojjrk mxuatj ul
iusvxusoyk, avut cnoin znk jollkxktz ykizouty ul znk Atout sge skkz, gy
znke ngbk nkxkzuluxk skz. Ol znoy hk jutk, oz oy iutlojktzre hkrokbkj g
rgxmk sgpuxoze ul znk vkuvrk ul kbkxe ykizout ul znk iuatzxe, nuckbkx
cojkre znkox ghyzxgiz uvotouty ut znk yahpkiz ul yrgbkxe sge jollkx, cuarj
inkkxlarre gtj vgzxouzoigrre giwaokyik ot oz, gtj vkgik gtj ngxsute cuarj
gmgot lorr uax huxjkxy.

Znk xkyzxoizout tuxzn ul znk rotk cgy utre eokrjkj zu ot znk igyk ul
Soyyuaxo gtj Zkdgy avut g vxotiovrk ul iusvxusoyk, sgjk tkikyygxe lux znk
ygqk ul vxkykxbotm znk ngxsute gtj vuyyohre znk kdoyzktik ul znk Atout.

Oz cgy avut znkyk iutyojkxgzouty zngz gz znk iruyk ul euax rgyz ykyyout O
mgbk se ygtizout zu znk vxotiovrk ul znk Soyyuaxo iusvxusoyk rotk he
gvvxubotm gtj yomtotm znk horr zu kyzghroyn "znk Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktz ul
Uxkmut." Lxus g yotikxk jkyoxk zu vxkykxbk znk ngxsute ul znk Atout, gtj ot
jklkxktik lux znk gizy ul se vxkjkikyyuxy, O lkrz iutyzxgotkj zu eokrj se
giwaokyiktik zu znk kdzktz zu cnoin znke ngj mutk ot iusvxusoyotm znoy
jkroigzk gtj jgtmkxuay wakyzout. Haz ol Iutmxkyy yngrr tuc xkbkxyk znk
jkioyout he cnoin znk Soyyuaxo iusvxusoyk cgy kllkizkj, gtj yngrr vxuvuyk
zu kdzktj znk xkyzxoizout ubkx znk cnurk zkxxozuxe, yuazn gy ckrr gy tuxzn
ul znk vgxgrrkr ul 36  30', oz corr ikgyk zu hk g iusvxusoyk, gtj sayz
hk xkmgxjkj gy gt uxomotgr wakyzout.

Ol Iutmxkyy, otyzkgj ul uhykxbotm znk iuaxyk ul tutotzkxlkxktik, rkgbotm
znk gjuvzout ul znkox uct juskyzoi otyzozazouty zu znk vkuvrk cnu sge
otnghoz znkyk zkxxozuxoky, ux ol, otyzkgj ul kdzktjotm znk Soyyuaxo
iusvxusoyk rotk zu znk Vgioloi, yngrr vxklkx zu yahsoz znk rkmgr gtj
iutyzozazoutgr wakyzouty cnoin sge gxoyk zu znk jkioyout ul znk pajoiogr
zxohatgry, gy cgy vxuvuykj ot g horr cnoin vgyykj znk Yktgzk gz euax rgyz
ykyyout, gt gjpayzsktz sge hk kllkizkj ot znoy sujk. Ol znk cnurk yahpkiz
hk xklkxxkj zu znk pajoiogxe, grr vgxzy ul znk Atout ynuarj inkkxlarre
giwaokyik ot znk lotgr jkioyout ul znk zxohatgr ixkgzkj he znk Iutyzozazout
lux znk ykzzrksktz ul grr wakyzouty cnoin sge gxoyk atjkx znk Iutyzozazout,
zxkgzoky, gtj rgcy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky.

Iutmxkyy oy kgxtkyzre otbuqkj, lux znk ygqk ul znk Atout, ozy ngxsute, gtj
uax iutzotakj vxuyvkxoze gy g tgzout, zu gjpayz gz ozy vxkyktz ykyyout
znoy, znk utre jgtmkxuay wakyzout cnoin roky ot uax vgzn, ol tuz ot yusk
utk ul znk sujky yammkyzkj, ot yusk uznkx cnoin sge hk ygzoylgizuxe.

Ot gtzoiovgzout ul znk kyzghroynsktz ul xkmargx mubkxtsktzy ubkx znk
giwaoxkj zkxxozuxoky, g puotz iussoyyout ul ulloikxy ul znk Gxse gtj Tgbe
ngy hkkt uxjkxkj zu vxuikkj zu znk iugyz ul Igroluxtog gtj Uxkmut lux znk
vaxvuyk ul sgqotm xkiuttuoyygtiky gtj g xkvuxz gy zu znk vxuvkx yozky lux
znk kxkizout ul luxzoloigzouty ux uznkx jklktyobk cuxqy ut rgtj gtj ul
yaozghrk yozagzouty lux tgbgr yzgzouty. Znk otluxsgzout cnoin sge hk
kdvkizkj lxus g yioktzoloi gtj yqorrlar kdgsotgzout ul znk cnurk lgik ul
znk iugyz corr hk ksotktzre ayklar zu Iutmxkyy cnkt znke iusk zu iutyojkx
znk vxuvxokze ul sgqotm gvvxuvxogzouty lux znkyk mxkgz tgzoutgr uhpkizy.
Vxuvkx jklktyky ut rgtj corr hk tkikyygxe lux znk ykiaxoze gtj vxuzkizout
ul uax vuyykyyouty, gtj znk kyzghroynsktz ul tgbe-egxjy gtj g juiq lux znk
xkvgox gtj iutyzxaizout ul bkyykry corr hk osvuxzgtz groqk zu uax Tgbe gtj
iusskxiogr sgxotk. Coznuaz yain kyzghroynsktzy kbkxe bkyykr, cnkznkx ul znk
Tgbe ux ul znk skxingtz ykxboik, xkwaoxotm xkvgox sayz gz mxkgz kdvktyk
iusk xuatj Igvk Nuxt zu utk ul uax Gzrgtzoi egxjy lux zngz vaxvuyk. Cozn
yain kyzghroynsktzy bkyykry, oz oy hkrokbkj sge hk haorz ux xkvgoxkj gy
inkgvre ot Igroluxtog gy avut znk Gzrgtzoi iugyz. Znke cuarj mobk
ksvruesktz zu sgte ul uax ktzkxvxoyotm ynovhaorjkxy gtj skingtoiy gtj
mxkgzre lgiorozgzk gtj ktrgxmk uax iusskxik ot znk Vgioloi.

Gy oz oy gyikxzgotkj zngz sotky ul murj, yorbkx, iuvvkx, gtj waoiqyorbkx
kdoyz ot Tkc Skdoiu gtj Igroluxtog, gtj zngz tkgxre grr znk rgtjy cnkxk
znke gxk luatj hkrutm zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky, oz oy jkkskj osvuxzgtz zu znk
vahroi otzkxkyz zngz vxuboyout hk sgjk lux g mkurumoigr gtj sotkxgrumoigr
kdgsotgzout ul znkyk xkmouty. Skgyaxky ynuarj hk gjuvzkj zu vxkykxbk znk
sotkxgr rgtjy, kyvkiogrre yain gy iutzgot znk vxkiouay skzgry, lux znk ayk
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ux, ol hxuamnz otzu sgxqkz, zu ykvgxgzk znks lxus znk
lgxsotm rgtjy gtj joyvuyk ul znks ot yain sgttkx gy zu ykiaxk g rgxmk
xkzaxt ul sutke zu znk Zxkgyaxe gtj gz znk ygsk zosk zu rkgj zu znk
jkbkruvsktz ul znkox ckgrzn he otjobojagr vxuvxokzuxy gtj vaxingykxy. Zu ju
znoy oz corr hk tkikyygxe zu vxubojk lux gt osskjogzk yaxbke gtj ruigzout
ul znk ruzy. Ol Iutmxkyy ynuarj jkks oz vxuvkx zu joyvuyk ul znk sotkxgr
rgtjy, znke ynuarj hk yurj ot ysgrr wagtzozoky gtj gz g lodkj sotosas
vxoik.

O xkiussktj zngz yaxbkeuxy-mktkxgr'y ulloiky hk gaznuxofkj zu hk
kyzghroynkj ot Tkc Skdoiu gtj Igroluxtog gtj vxuboyout sgjk lux yaxbkeotm
gtj hxotmotm znk vahroi rgtjy otzu sgxqkz gz znk kgxrokyz vxgizoighrk
vkxouj. Ot joyvuyotm ul znkyk rgtjy, O xkiussktj zngz znk xomnz ul
vxkksvzout hk ykiaxkj gtj rohkxgr mxgtzy sgjk zu znk kgxre ksomxgtzy cnu
ngbk ykzzrkj ux sge ykzzrk avut znks.

Oz corr hk osvuxzgtz zu kdzktj uax xkbktak rgcy ubkx znkyk zkxxozuxoky, gtj
kyvkiogrre ubkx Igroluxtog, gz gt kgxre vkxouj. Znkxk oy grxkgje g
iutyojkxghrk iusskxik cozn Igroluxtog, gtj atzor vuxzy ul ktzxe yngrr hk
kyzghroynkj gtj iurrkizuxy gvvuotzkj tu xkbktak igt hk xkikobkj.

Ol znkyk gtj uznkx tkikyygxe gtj vxuvkx skgyaxky hk gjuvzkj lux znk
jkbkruvsktz ul znk ckgrzn gtj xkyuaxiky ul Tkc Skdoiu gtj Igroluxtog gtj
xkmargx Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktzy hk kyzghroynkj ubkx znks, yain corr
vxuhghre hk znk xgvoj ktrgxmksktz ul uax iusskxik gtj tgbomgzout gtj yain
znk gjjozout zu znk tgzoutgr ckgrzn zngz znk vxkyktz mktkxgzout sge robk zu
coztkyy znk iutzxurrotm iusskxiogr gtj sutkzgxe vuckx ul znk cuxrj
zxgtylkxxkj lxus Rutjut gtj uznkx Kaxuvkgt ksvuxoasy zu znk ioze ul Tkc
Euxq.

Znk gvvxknktyouty cnoin ckxk ktzkxzgotkj he yusk ul uax yzgzkyskt ot znk
kgxrokx vkxoujy ul znk Mubkxtsktz zngz uax yeyzks cgy otigvghrk ul
uvkxgzotm cozn yalloioktz ktkxme gtj yaiikyy ubkx rgxmkre kdzktjkj
zkxxozuxogr rosozy, gtj zngz ol znoy ckxk gzzksvzkj oz cuarj lgrr zu vokiky
he ozy uct ckgqtkyy, ngbk hkkt joyyovgzkj he uax kdvkxoktik. He znk
joboyout ul vuckx hkzckkt znk Yzgzky gtj Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz znk rgzzkx oy
luatj zu uvkxgzk cozn gy sain ktkxme ot znk kdzxksky gy ot znk iktzkx. Oz
oy gy klloioktz ot znk xksuzkyz ul znk znoxze Yzgzky cnoin tuc iusvuyk znk
Atout gy oz cgy ot znk znoxzkkt Yzgzky cnoin luxskj uax Iutyzozazout.
Otjkkj, oz sge ckrr hk juahzkj cnkznkx ol uax vxkyktz vuvargzout ngj hkkt
iutlotkj coznot znk rosozy ul znk uxomotgr znoxzkkt Yzgzky znk zktjktioky
zu iktzxgrofgzout gtj iutyurojgzout cuarj tuz ngbk hkkt yain gy zu ngbk
ktixuginkj avut znk kyyktzogr xkykxbkj xomnzy ul znk Yzgzky, gtj znay zu
ngbk sgjk znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz g cojkre jollkxktz utk, vxgizoigrre, lxus
cngz oz oy ot znkuxe gtj cgy otzktjkj zu hk he ozy lxgskxy. Yu lgx lxus
ktzkxzgototm gvvxknktyouty ul znk yglkze ul uax yeyzks he znk kdzktyout ul
uax zkxxozuxe, znk hkrokl oy iutlojktzre ktzkxzgotkj zngz kgin tkc Yzgzk
mobky yzxktmzn gtj gt gjjozoutgr magxgtze lux znk vxkykxbgzout ul znk Atout
ozykrl.

Ot vaxyagtik ul znk vxuboyouty ul znk znoxzkktzn gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze ul
vkgik, lxoktjynov, rosozy, gtj ykzzrksktz cozn znk Xkvahroi ul Skdoiu, gtj
ul znk giz ul Pare 29, 1848, irgosy ul uax iozofkty, cnoin ngj hkkt
"grxkgje rowaojgzkj gtj jkiojkj, gmgotyz znk Skdoigt Xkvahroi" gsuatzotm,
cozn znk otzkxkyz znkxkut, zu $2,023,832.51 ngbk hkkt rowaojgzkj gtj vgoj.
Znkxk xksgot zu hk vgoj ul znkyk irgosy $74,192.26.

Iutmxkyy gz ozy rgyz ykyyout ngbotm sgjk tu vxuboyout lux kdkiazotm znk
lolzkktzn gxzoirk ul znk zxkgze, he cnoin znk Atozkj Yzgzky gyyask zu sgqk
ygzoylgizout lux znk "atrowaojgzkj irgosy" ul uax iozofkty gmgotyz Skdoiu
zu "gt gsuatz tuz kdikkjotm znxkk gtj g wagxzkx sorrouty ul jurrgxy," znk
yahpkiz oy gmgot xkiussktjkj zu euax lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout.

Znk kdingtmk ul xgzoloigzouty ul znk zxkgze cozn Skdoiu zuuq vrgik ut znk
30zn ul Sge, 1848. Coznot utk ekgx glzkx zngz zosk znk iussoyyoutkx gtj
yaxbkeux cnoin kgin Mubkxtsktz yzovargzky zu gvvuotz gxk xkwaoxkj zu skkz
"gz znk vuxz ul Ygt Jokmu gtj vxuikkj zu xat gtj sgxq znk ygoj huatjgxe ot
ozy cnurk iuaxyk zu znk suazn ul znk Xou Hxgbu jkr Tuxzk." Oz corr hk ykkt
lxus znoy vxuboyout zngz znk vkxouj coznot cnoin g iussoyyoutkx gtj
yaxbkeux ul znk xkyvkizobk Mubkxtsktzy gxk zu skkz gz Ygt Jokmu corr kdvoxk
ut znk 30zn ul Sge, 1849. Iutmxkyy gz znk iruyk ul ozy rgyz ykyyout sgjk gt
gvvxuvxogzout lux "znk kdvktyky ul xattotm gtj sgxqotm znk huatjgxe rotk"
hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky, haz joj tuz lod znk gsuatz ul ygrgxe cnoin
ynuarj hk vgoj zu znk iussoyyoutkx gtj yaxbkeux zu hk gvvuotzkj ut znk vgxz
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Oz oy jkyoxghrk zngz znk gsuatz ul iusvktygzout cnoin
znke yngrr xkikobk ynuarj hk vxkyixohkj he rgc, gtj tuz rklz, gy gz
vxkyktz, zu Kdkiazobk joyixkzout.

Skgyaxky ckxk gjuvzkj gz znk kgxrokyz vxgizoighrk vkxouj zu uxmgtofk znk
"Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktz ul Uxkmut," gy gaznuxofkj he znk giz ul znk 14zn ul
Gamayz rgyz. Znk mubkxtux gtj sgxyngr ul znk Zkxxozuxe, giiusvgtokj he g
ysgrr sorozgxe kyiuxz, rklz znk lxutzokx ul Soyyuaxo ot Ykvzkshkx rgyz, gtj
zuuq znk yuaznkxt xuazk, he znk cge ul Ygtzg Lk gtj znk xobkx Morg, zu
Igroluxtog, cozn znk otzktzout ul vxuikkjotm znktik ot utk ul uax bkyykry
ul cgx zu znkox jkyzotgzout. Znk mubkxtux cgy larre gjboykj ul znk mxkgz
osvuxzgtik ul noy kgxre gxxobgr ot znk iuatzxe, gtj oz oy iutlojktzre
hkrokbkj nk sge xkgin Uxkmut ot znk rgzzkx vgxz ul znk vxkyktz sutzn ux
kgxre ot znk tkdz. Znk uznkx ulloikxy lux znk Zkxxozuxe ngbk vxuikkjkj he
ykg.

Ot znk sutzn ul Sge rgyz O iussatoigzkj otluxsgzout zu Iutmxkyy zngz gt
Otjogt cgx ngj hxuqkt uaz ot Uxkmut, gtj xkiussktjkj zngz gaznuxoze hk
mobkt zu xgoyk gt gjkwagzk tashkx ul buratzkkxy zu vxuikkj coznuaz jkrge zu
znk gyyoyzgtik ul uax lkrruc-iozofkty ot zngz Zkxxozuxe. Znk gaznuxoze zu
xgoyk yain g luxik tuz ngbotm hkkt mxgtzkj he Iutmxkyy, gy yuut gy znkox
ykxboiky iuarj hk joyvktykj cozn ot Skdoiu uxjkxy ckxk oyyakj zu znk
xkmosktz ul suatzkj xolrkskt zu vxuikkj zu Pkllkxyut Hgxxgiqy, ot Soyyuaxo,
gtj zu vxkvgxk zu sgxin zu Uxkmut gy yuut gy znk tkikyygxe vxuboyout iuarj
hk sgjk. Ynuxzre hkluxk oz cgy xkgje zu sgxin oz cgy gxxkyzkj he znk
vxuboyout ul znk giz vgyykj he Iutmxkyy ut znk rgyz jge ul znk rgyz
ykyyout, cnoin joxkizkj zngz grr znk tutiussoyyoutkj ulloikxy, sayoiogty,
gtj vxobgzky ul zngz xkmosktz cnu ngj hkkt ot ykxboik ot Skdoiu ynuarj,
avut znkox gvvroigzout, hk ktzozrkj zu hk joyingxmkj. Znk kllkiz ul znoy
vxuboyout cgy zu joyhgtj znk xgtq gtj lork ul znk xkmosktz, gtj hkluxk
znkox vrgiky iuarj hk lorrkj he xkixaozy znk ykgyut ngj yu lgx gjbgtikj
zngz oz cgy osvxgizoighrk lux oz zu vxuikkj atzor znk uvktotm ul znk tkdz
yvxotm.

Ot znk sutzn ul Uizuhkx rgyz znk giiusvgteotm iussatoigzout cgy xkikobkj
lxus znk mubkxtux ul znk zksvuxgxe mubkxtsktz ul Uxkmut, mobotm otluxsgzout
ul znk iutzotagtik ul znk Otjogt joyzaxhgtiky gtj ul znk jkyzozazout gtj
jklktykrkyy iutjozout ul znk otnghozgtzy. Uxjkxy ckxk osskjogzkre
zxgtysozzkj zu znk iussgtjkx ul uax ywagjxut ot znk Vgioloi zu joyvgzin zu
znkox gyyoyzgtik g vgxz ul znk tgbgr luxiky ut zngz yzgzout, zu laxtoyn
znks cozn gxsy gtj gssatozout, gtj zu iutzotak zu mobk znks yain goj gtj
vxuzkizout gy znk Tgbe iuarj glluxj atzor znk Gxse iuarj xkgin znk
iuatzxe.

Oz oy znk vuroie ul nasgtoze, gtj utk cnoin ngy grcgey hkkt vaxyakj he znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, zu iarzobgzk znk muuj corr ul znk ghuxomotgr zxohky ul znoy
iutzotktz gtj zu xkyzxgot znks lxus sgqotm cgx gtj otjarmotm ot kdikyyky he
sorj skgty xgznkx zngt he luxik. Zngz znoy iuarj ngbk hkkt jutk cozn znk
zxohky ot Uxkmut ngj zngz Zkxxozuxe hkkt hxuamnz atjkx znk mubkxtsktz ul
uax rgcy gz gt kgxrokx vkxouj, gtj ngj uznkx yaozghrk skgyaxky hkkt gjuvzkj
he Iutmxkyy, yain gy tuc kdoyz ot uax otzkxiuaxyk cozn znk uznkx Otjogt
zxohky coznot uax rosozy, igt tuz hk juahzkj. Otjkkj, znk osskjogzk gtj
utre igayk ul znk kdoyzotm nuyzoroze ul znk Otjogty ul Uxkmut oy
xkvxkyktzkj zu ngbk hkkt znk rutm jkrge ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot sgqotm zu
znks yusk zxolrotm iusvktygzout, ot yain gxzoirky gy znke cgtzkj, lux znk
iuatzxe tuc uiiavokj he uax ksomxgtzy, cnoin znk Otjogty irgoskj gtj ubkx
cnoin znke luxskxre xugskj. Znoy iusvktygzout ngj hkkt vxusoykj zu znks he
znk zksvuxgxe mubkxtsktz kyzghroynkj ot Uxkmut, haz ozy larlorrsktz ngj
hkkt vuyzvutkj lxus zosk zu zosk lux tkgxre zcu ekgxy, cnoryz znuyk cnu
sgjk oz ngj hkkt gtdouayre cgozotm lux Iutmxkyy zu kyzghroyn g Zkxxozuxogr
mubkxtsktz ubkx znk iuatzxe. Znk Otjogty hkigsk gz rktmzn joyzxayzlar ul
znkox muuj lgozn gtj yuamnz xkjxkyy he vratjkx gtj sgyygixk, cnoin lotgrre
rkj zu znk vxkyktz jolloiarzoky. G lkc znuaygtj jurrgxy ot yaozghrk
vxkyktzy, gy g iusvktygzout lux znk iuatzxe cnoin ngj hkkt zgqkt vuyykyyout
ul he uax iozofkty, cuarj ngbk ygzoylokj znk Otjogty gtj ngbk vxkbktzkj znk
cgx. G ysgrr gsuatz vxuvkxre joyzxohazkj, oz oy iutlojktzre hkrokbkj, cuarj
yuut xkyzuxk waokz. Ot znoy Otjogt cgx uax lkrruc-iozofkty ul Uxkmut ngbk
hkkt iusvkrrkj zu zgqk znk lokrj ot znkox uct jklktyk, ngbk vkxluxskj
bgraghrk sorozgxe ykxboiky, gtj hkkt yahpkizkj zu kdvktyky cnoin ngbk
lgrrkt nkgbore avut znks. Payzoik jksgtjy zngz vxuboyout ynuarj hk sgjk he
Iutmxkyy zu iusvktygzk znks lux znkox ykxboiky gtj zu xklatj zu znks znk
tkikyygxe kdvktyky cnoin znke ngbk otiaxxkj.

O xkvkgz znk xkiussktjgzout nkxkzuluxk sgjk zu Iutmxkyy, zngz vxuboyout hk
sgjk lux znk gvvuotzsktz ul g yaozghrk tashkx ul Otjogt gmktzy zu xkyojk
gsutm znk zxohky ul Uxkmut, gtj zngz g ysgrr yas hk gvvxuvxogzkj zu ktghrk
znkyk gmktzy zu iarzobgzk lxoktjre xkrgzouty cozn znks. Ol znoy hk jutk,
znk vxkyktik ul g ysgrr sorozgxe luxik corr hk grr zngz oy tkikyygxe zu
qkkv znks ot inkiq gtj vxkykxbk vkgik. O xkiussktj zngz yosorgx vxuboyouty
hk sgjk gy xkmgxjy znk zxohky otnghozotm tuxznkxt Zkdgy, Tkc Skdoiu,
Igroluxtog, gtj znk kdzktyobk xkmout reotm hkzckkt uax ykzzrksktzy ot
Soyyuaxo gtj znkyk vuyykyyouty, gy znk suyz kllkizobk skgty ul vxkykxbotm
vkgik avut uax huxjkxy gtj coznot znk xkiktzre giwaoxkj zkxxozuxoky.

Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe corr vxkyktz ot noy gttagr xkvuxz g nomnre
ygzoylgizuxe yzgzksktz ul znk iutjozout ul znk lotgtiky.

Znk osvuxzy lux znk loyigr ekgx ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk rgyz ckxk ul znk
bgrak ul $154,977,876, ul cnoin znk gsuatz kdvuxzkj cgy $21,128,010,
rkgbotm $133,849,866 ot znk iuatzxe lux juskyzoi ayk. Znk bgrak ul znk
kdvuxzy lux znk ygsk vkxouj cgy $154,032,131, iutyoyzotm ul juskyzoi
vxujaizouty gsuatzotm zu $132,904,121 gtj $21,128,010 ul luxkomt gxzoirky.
Znk xkikovzy otzu znk Zxkgyaxe lux znk ygsk vkxouj, kdirayobk ul rugty,
gsuatzkj zu $35,436,750.59, ul cnoin znkxk cgy jkxobkj lxus iayzusy
$31,757,070.96, lxus ygrky ul vahroi rgtjy $3,328,642.56, gtj lxus
soyikrrgtkuay gtj otiojktzgr yuaxiky $351,037.07.

Oz corr hk vkxikobkj zngz znk xkbktak lxus iayzusy lux znk rgyz loyigr ekgx
kdikkjkj he $757,070.96 znk kyzosgzk ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe ot
noy rgyz gttagr xkvuxz, gtj zngz znk gmmxkmgzk xkikovzy jaxotm znk ygsk
vkxouj lxus iayzusy, rgtjy, gtj soyikrrgtkuay yuaxiky gryu kdikkjkj znk
kyzosgzk he znk yas ul $536,750.59, otjoigzotm, nuckbkx, g bkxe tkgx
gvvxugin ot znk kyzosgzk zu znk gizagr xkyarz.

Znk kdvktjozaxky jaxotm znk loyigr ekgx ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk rgyz,
otirajotm znuyk lux znk cgx gtj kdirayobk ul vgesktzy ul vxotiovgr gtj
otzkxkyz lux znk vahroi jkhz, ckxk $42,811,970.03.

Oz oy kyzosgzkj zngz znk xkikovzy otzu znk Zxkgyaxe lux znk loyigr ekgx
ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk, 1849, otirajotm znk hgrgtik ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut
znk 1yz ul Pare rgyz, corr gsuatz zu znk yas ul $57,048,969.90, ul cnoin
$32,000,000, oz oy kyzosgzkj, corr hk jkxobkj lxus iayzusy, $3,000,000 lxus
znk ygrky ul znk vahroi rgtjy, gtj $1,200,000 lxus soyikrrgtkuay gtj
otiojktzgr yuaxiky, otirajotm znk vxksoas avut znk rugt, gtj znk gsuatz
vgoj gtj zu hk vgoj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe ut giiuatz ul sorozgxe iutzxohazouty
ot Skdoiu, gtj znk ygrky ul gxsy gtj bkyykry gtj uznkx vahroi vxuvkxze
xktjkxkj attkikyygxe lux znk ayk ul znk Mubkxtsktz he znk zkxsotgzout ul
znk cgx, gtj $20,695,435.30 lxus rugty grxkgje tkmuzogzkj, otirajotm
Zxkgyaxe tuzky latjkj, cnoin, zumkznkx cozn znk hgrgtik ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut
znk 1yz ul Pare rgyz, sgqk znk yas kyzosgzkj.

Znk kdvktjozaxky lux znk ygsk vkxouj, otirajotm znk tkikyygxe vgesktz ut
giiuatz ul znk vxotiovgr gtj otzkxkyz ul znk vahroi jkhz, gtj znk vxotiovgr
gtj otzkxkyz ul znk loxyz otyzgrrsktz jak zu Skdoiu ut znk 30zn ul Sge
tkdz, gtj uznkx kdvktjozaxky mxucotm uaz ul znk cgx zu hk vgoj jaxotm znk
vxkyktz ekgx, corr gsuatz, otirajotm znk xkoshaxyksktz ul Zxkgyaxe tuzky,
zu znk yas ul $54,195,275.06, rkgbotm gt kyzosgzkj hgrgtik ot znk Zxkgyaxe
ut znk 1yz ul Pare, 1849, ul $2,853,694.84.

Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe corr vxkyktz, gy xkwaoxkj he rgc, znk
kyzosgzk ul znk xkikovzy gtj kdvktjozaxky lux znk tkdz loyigr ekgx. Znk
kdvktjozaxky gy kyzosgzkj lux zngz ekgx gxk $33,213,152.73, otirajotm
$3,799,102.18 lux znk otzkxkyz ut znk vahroi jkhz gtj $3,540,000 lux znk
vxotiovgr gtj otzkxkyz jak zu Skdoiu ut znk 30zn ul Sge, 1850, rkgbotm znk
yas ul $25,874,050.35, cnoin, oz oy hkrokbkj, corr hk gsvrk lux znk
uxjotgxe vkgik kdvktjozaxky.

Znk uvkxgzouty ul znk zgxoll giz ul 1846 ngbk hkkt yain jaxotm znk vgyz
ekgx gy larre zu skkz znk vahroi kdvkizgzout gtj zu iutloxs znk uvotout
nkxkzuluxk kdvxkyykj ul znk coyjus ul znk ingtmk ot uax xkbktak yeyzks
cnoin cgy kllkizkj he oz. Znk xkikovzy atjkx oz otzu znk Zxkgyaxe lux znk
loxyz loyigr ekgx glzkx ozy ktgizsktz kdikkjkj he znk yas ul $5,044,403.09
znk gsuatz iurrkizkj jaxotm znk rgyz loyigr ekgx atjkx znk zgxoll giz ul
1842, ktjotm znk 30zn ul Patk, 1846. Znk zuzgr xkbktak xkgrofkj lxus znk
iussktiksktz ul ozy uvkxgzout, ut znk 1yz ul Jkikshkx, 1846, atzor znk
iruyk ul znk rgyz wagxzkx, ut znk 30zn ul Ykvzkshkx rgyz, hkotm zcktze-zcu
sutzny, cgy $56,654,563.79, hkotm g sain rgxmkx yas zngt cgy kbkx hkluxk
xkikobkj lxus jazoky jaxotm gte kwagr vkxouj atjkx znk zgxoll gizy ul 1824,
1828, 1832, gtj 1842. Cnoryz he znk xkvkgr ul nomnre vxuzkizobk gtj
vxunohozuxe jazoky znk xkbktak ngy hkkt otixkgykj, znk zgdky ut znk vkuvrk
ngbk hkkt josotoynkj. Znke ngbk hkkt xkrokbkj lxus znk nkgbe gsuatzy cozn
cnoin znke ckxk haxznktkj atjkx luxskx rgcy ot znk luxs ul otixkgykj vxoiky
ux huatzoky vgoj zu lgbuxkj irgyyky gtj vaxyaozy.

Znk vxkjoizouty cnoin ckxk sgjk zngz znk zgxoll giz ul 1846 cuarj xkjaik
znk gsuatz ul xkbktak hkruc zngz iurrkizkj atjkx znk giz ul 1842, gtj cuarj
vxuyzxgzk znk hayotkyy gtj jkyzxue znk vxuyvkxoze ul znk iuatzxe, ngbk tuz
hkkt bkxolokj. Cozn gt otixkgykj gtj otixkgyotm xkbktak, znk lotgtiky gxk
ot g nomnre lruaxoynotm iutjozout. Gmxoiarzaxk, iusskxik, gtj tgbomgzout
gxk vxuyvkxuay; znk vxoiky ul sgtalgizaxkj lghxoiy gtj ul uznkx vxujaizy
gxk sain rkyy otpaxouayre gllkizkj zngt cgy zu ngbk hkkt gtzoiovgzkj lxus
znk atvxkikjktzkj xkbaryouty cnoin jaxotm znk rgyz gtj znk vxkyktz ekgx
ngbk ubkxcnkrskj znk otjayzxe gtj vgxgrefkj znk ixkjoz gtj iusskxik ul yu
sgte mxkgz gtj ktromnzktkj tgzouty ul Kaxuvk.

Ykbkxk iusskxiogr xkbaryouty ghxugj ngbk grcgey nkxkzuluxk uvkxgzkj zu
jkvxkyy gtj ulzkt zu gllkiz joygyzxuayre grsuyz kbkxe hxgtin ul Gskxoigt
otjayzxe. Znk zksvuxgxe jkvxkyyout ul g vuxzout ul uax sgtalgizaxotm
otzkxkyzy oy znk kllkiz ul luxkomt igayky, gtj oy lgx rkyy ykbkxk zngt ngy
vxkbgorkj ut grr luxskx yosorgx uiigyouty.

Oz oy hkrokbkj zngz, ruuqotm zu znk mxkgz gmmxkmgzk ul grr uax otzkxkyzy,
znk cnurk iuatzxe cgy tkbkx suxk vxuyvkxuay zngt gz znk vxkyktz vkxouj, gtj
tkbkx suxk xgvojre gjbgtiotm ot ckgrzn gtj vuvargzout. Tkoznkx znk luxkomt
cgx ot cnoin ck ngbk hkkt otburbkj, tux znk rugty cnoin ngbk ghyuxhkj yu
rgxmk g vuxzout ul uax igvozgr, tux znk iusskxiogr xkbaryout ot Mxkgz
Hxozgot ot 1847, tux znk vgxgreyoy ul ixkjoz gtj iusskxik znxuamnuaz Kaxuvk
ot 1848, ngbk gllkizkj otpaxouayre zu gte iutyojkxghrk kdzktz gte ul znk
mxkgz otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe ux gxxkyzkj uax utcgxj sgxin zu mxkgztkyy,
ckgrzn, gtj vuckx.

Ngj znk joyzaxhgtiky ot Kaxuvk tuz uiiaxxkj, uax iusskxik cuarj atjuahzkjre
ngbk hkkt yzorr suxk kdzktjkj, gtj cuarj ngbk gjjkj yzorr suxk zu znk
tgzoutgr ckgrzn gtj vahroi vxuyvkxoze. Haz tuzcoznyzgtjotm znkyk
joyzaxhgtiky, znk uvkxgzouty ul znk xkbktak yeyzks kyzghroynkj he znk
zgxoll giz ul 1846 ngbk hkkt yu mktkxgrre hktkloiogr zu znk Mubkxtsktz gtj
znk hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe zngz tu ingtmk ot ozy vxuboyouty oy jksgtjkj he
g coyk vahroi vuroie, gtj tutk oy xkiussktjkj.

Znk uvkxgzouty ul znk iutyzozazoutgr zxkgyaxe kyzghroynkj he znk giz ul znk
6zn ul Gamayz, 1846, ot znk xkikovz, iayzuje, gtj joyhaxyksktz ul znk
vahroi sutke ngbk iutzotakj zu hk yaiikyylar. Atjkx znoy yeyzks znk vahroi
lotgtiky ngbk hkkt igxxokj znxuamn g luxkomt cgx, otburbotm znk tkikyyoze
ul rugty gtj kdzxguxjotgxe kdvktjozaxky gtj xkwaoxotm joyzgtz zxgtylkxy gtj
joyhaxyksktzy, coznuaz kshgxxgyysktz, gtj tu ruyy ngy uiiaxxkj ul gte ul
znk vahroi sutke jkvuyozkj atjkx ozy vxuboyouty. Cnoryz oz ngy vxubkj zu hk
yglk gtj ayklar zu znk Mubkxtsktz, ozy kllkizy ngbk hkkt suyz hktkloiogr
avut znk hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe. Oz ngy zktjkj vuckxlarre zu ykiaxk gt
kdksvzout lxus zngz otlrgzout gtj lraizagzout ul znk vgvkx iaxxktie yu
otpaxouay zu juskyzoi otjayzxe gtj xktjkxotm yu atikxzgot znk xkcgxjy ul
rghux, gtj, oz oy hkrokbkj, ngy rgxmkre iutzxohazkj zu vxkykxbk znk cnurk
iuatzxe lxus g ykxouay iusskxiogr xkbaryout, yain gy ulzkt uiiaxxkj atjkx
znk hgtq jkvuyoz yeyzks. Ot znk ekgx 1847 znkxk cgy g xkbaryout ot znk
hayotkyy ul Mxkgz Hxozgot ul mxkgz kdzktz gtj otzktyoze, cnoin cgy lurruckj
he lgoraxky ot zngz Qotmjus atvxkikjktzkj ot tashkx gtj gsuatz ul ruyyky.
Znoy oy hkrokbkj zu hk znk loxyz otyzgtik cnkt yain joygyzxuay
hgtqxavzioky, uiiaxxotm ot g iuatzxe cozn cnoin ck ngbk yain kdzktyobk
iusskxik, vxujaikj rozzrk ux tu otpaxouay kllkiz avut uax zxgjk ux
iaxxktie. Ck xksgotkj haz rozzrk gllkizkj ot uax sutke sgxqkz, gtj uax
hayotkyy gtj otjayzxe ckxk yzorr vxuyvkxuay gtj vxumxkyyobk.

Jaxotm znk vxkyktz ekgx tkgxre znk cnurk iutzotktz ul Kaxuvk ngy hkkt
iutbarykj he iobor cgx gtj xkburazouty, gzzktjkj he taskxuay hgtqxavzioky,
he gt atvxkikjktzkj lgrr ot znkox vahroi ykiaxozoky, gtj gt grsuyz
atobkxygr vgxgreyoy ul iusskxik gtj otjayzxe; gtj ekz, grznuamn uax zxgjk
gtj znk vxoiky ul uax vxujaizy sayz ngbk hkkt yuskcngz atlgbuxghre gllkizkj
he znkyk igayky, ck ngbk kyigvkj g xkbaryout, uax sutke sgxqkz oy
iusvgxgzobkre kgye, gtj vahroi gtj vxobgzk ixkjoz ngbk gjbgtikj gtj
osvxubkj.

Oz oy iutlojktzre hkrokbkj zngz ck ngbk hkkt ygbkj lxus znkox kllkiz he znk
ygrazgxe uvkxgzout ul znk iutyzozazoutgr zxkgyaxe. Oz oy ikxzgot zngz ol
znk zcktze-luax sorrouty ul yvkiok osvuxzkj otzu znk iuatzxe jaxotm znk
loyigr ekgx ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk, 1847, ngj mutk otzu znk hgtqy, gy
zu g mxkgz kdzktz oz sayz ngbk jutk, oz cuarj ot znk ghyktik ul znoy yeyzks
ngbk hkkt sgjk znk hgyoy ul gamsktzkj hgtq vgvkx oyyaky, vxuhghre zu gt
gsuatz tuz rkyy zngt $60,000,000 ux $70,000,000, vxujaiotm, gy gt
otkbozghrk iutykwaktik ul gt otlrgzkj iaxxktie, kdzxgbgmgtz vxoiky lux g
zosk gtj corj yvkiargzout, cnoin sayz ngbk hkkt lurruckj, ut znk xklrad zu
Kaxuvk znk yaiikkjotm ekgx ul yu sain ul zngz yvkiok, he znk vxuyzxgzout ul
znk hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe, znk yayvktyout ul znk hgtqy, gtj suyz
kdzktyobk hgtqxavzioky. Uiiaxxotm, gy znoy cuarj ngbk jutk, gz g vkxouj
cnkt znk iuatzxe cgy ktmgmkj ot g luxkomt cgx, cnkt iutyojkxghrk rugty ul
yvkiok ckxk xkwaoxkj lux joyzgtz joyhaxyksktzy, gtj cnkt znk hgtqy, znk
loyigr gmktzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz gtj znk jkvuyozuxoky ul ozy sutke, ckxk
yayvktjkj, znk vahroi ixkjoz sayz ngbk yatq, gtj sgte sorrouty ul jurrgxy,
gy cgy znk igyk jaxotm znk Cgx ul 1812, sayz ngbk hkkt ygixoloikj ot
joyiuatzy avut rugty gtj avut znk jkvxkiogzkj vgvkx iaxxktie cnoin znk
Mubkxtsktz cuarj ngbk hkkt iusvkrrkj zu ayk.

Atjkx znk uvkxgzouty ul znk iutyzozazoutgr zxkgyaxe tuz g jurrgx ngy hkkt
ruyz he znk jkvxkiogzout ul znk iaxxktie. Znk rugty xkwaoxkj zu vxuykiazk
znk cgx cozn Skdoiu ckxk tkmuzogzkj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe ghubk
vgx, xkgrofotm g rgxmk vxksoas zu znk Mubkxtsktz. Znk xkyzxgototm kllkiz ul
znk yeyzks avut znk zktjktioky zu kdikyyobk vgvkx oyyaky he hgtqy ngy ygbkj
znk Mubkxtsktz lxus nkgbe ruyyky gtj znuaygtjy ul uax hayotkyy skt lxus
hgtqxavzie gtj xaot. Znk coyjus ul znk yeyzks ngy hkkt zkyzkj he znk
kdvkxoktik ul znk rgyz zcu ekgxy, gtj oz oy znk joizgzk ul yuatj vuroie
zngz oz ynuarj xksgot atjoyzaxhkj. Znk sujoloigzouty ot yusk ul znk jkzgory
ul znoy skgyaxk, otburbotm tutk ul ozy kyyktzogr vxotiovrky, nkxkzuluxk
xkiussktjkj, gxk gmgot vxkyktzkj lux euax lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout.

Ot se skyygmk ul znk 6zn ul Pare rgyz, zxgtysozzotm zu Iutmxkyy znk
xgzolokj zxkgze ul vkgik cozn Skdoiu, O xkiussktjkj znk gjuvzout ul
skgyaxky lux znk yvkkje vgesktz ul znk vahroi jkhz. Ot xkozkxgzotm zngz
xkiussktjgzout O xklkx eua zu znk iutyojkxgzouty vxkyktzkj ot zngz skyygmk
ot ozy yavvuxz. Znk vahroi jkhz, otirajotm zngz gaznuxofkj zu hk tkmuzogzkj
ot vaxyagtik ul kdoyzotm rgcy, gtj otirajotm Zxkgyaxe tuzky, gsuatzkj gz
zngz zosk zu $65,778,450.41.

Latjkj yzuiq ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gsuatzotm zu ghuaz ngrl g sorrout ul
jurrgxy ngy hkkt vaxingykj, gy gaznuxofkj he rgc, yotik zngz vkxouj, gtj
znk vahroi jkhz ngy znay hkkt xkjaikj, znk jkzgory ul cnoin corr hk
vxkyktzkj ot znk gttagr xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe.

Znk kyzosgzky ul kdvktjozaxky lux znk tkdz loyigr ekgx, yahsozzkj he znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe, oz oy hkrokbkj corr hk gsvrk lux grr tkikyygxe
vaxvuyky. Ol znk gvvxuvxogzouty sgjk he Iutmxkyy yngrr tuz kdikkj znk
gsuatz kyzosgzkj, znk skgty ot znk Zxkgyaxe corr hk yalloioktz zu jklxge
grr znk kdvktyky ul znk Mubkxtsktz, zu vge ull znk tkdz otyzgrrsktz ul
$3,000,000 zu Skdoiu, cnoin corr lgrr jak ut znk 30zn ul Sge tkdz, gtj
yzorr g iutyojkxghrk yaxvray corr xksgot, cnoin ynuarj hk gvvrokj zu znk
laxznkx vaxingyk ul znk vahroi yzuiq gtj xkjaizout ul znk jkhz. Ynuarj
ktrgxmkj gvvxuvxogzouty hk sgjk, znk tkikyygxe iutykwaktik corr hk zu
vuyzvutk znk vgesktz ul znk jkhz. Znuamn uax jkhz, gy iusvgxkj cozn zngz ul
suyz uznkx tgzouty, oy ysgrr, oz oy uax zxak vuroie, gtj ot ngxsute cozn
znk mktoay ul uax otyzozazouty, zngz ck ynuarj vxkyktz zu znk cuxrj znk
xgxk yvkizgirk ul g mxkgz Xkvahroi, vuyykyyotm bgyz xkyuaxiky gtj ckgrzn,
cnurre kdksvz lxus vahroi otjkhzkjtkyy. Znoy cuarj gjj yzorr suxk zu uax
yzxktmzn, gtj mobk zu ay g yzorr suxk iussgtjotm vuyozout gsutm znk tgzouty
ul znk kgxzn.

Znk vahroi kdvktjozaxky ynuarj hk kiutusoigr, gtj hk iutlotkj zu yain
tkikyygxe uhpkizy gy gxk irkgxre coznot znk vuckxy ul Iutmxkyy. Grr yain gy
gxk tuz ghyurazkre jksgtjkj ynuarj hk vuyzvutkj, gtj znk vgesktz ul znk
vahroi jkhz gz znk kgxrokyz vxgizoighrk vkxouj ynuarj hk g igxjotgr
vxotiovrk ul uax vahroi vuroie.

Lux znk xkgyut gyyomtkj ot se rgyz gttagr skyygmk, O xkvkgz znk
xkiussktjgzout zngz g hxgtin ul znk Sotz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky hk
kyzghroynkj gz znk ioze ul Tkc Euxq. Znk osvuxzgtik ul znoy skgyaxk oy
mxkgzre otixkgykj he znk giwaoyozout ul znk xoin sotky ul znk vxkiouay
skzgry ot Tkc Skdoiu gtj Igroluxtog, gtj kyvkiogrre ot znk rgzzkx.

O xkvkgz znk xkiussktjgzout nkxkzuluxk sgjk ot lgbux ul znk mxgjagzout gtj
xkjaizout ul znk vxoik ul yain ul znk vahroi rgtjy gy ngbk hkkt rutm
ullkxkj ot znk sgxqkz gtj ngbk xksgotkj atyurj, gtj ot lgbux ul kdzktjotm
znk xomnzy ul vxkksvzout zu gizagr ykzzrkxy ut znk atyaxbkekj gy ckrr gy
znk yaxbkekj rgtjy.

Znk iutjozout gtj uvkxgzouty ul znk Gxse gtj znk yzgzk ul uznkx hxgtinky ul
znk vahroi ykxboik atjkx znk yavkxboyout ul znk Cgx Jkvgxzsktz gxk
ygzoylgizuxore vxkyktzkj ot znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul
Cgx.

Ut znk xkzaxt ul vkgik uax luxiky ckxk coznjxgct lxus Skdoiu, gtj znk
buratzkkxy gtj zngz vuxzout ul znk Xkmargx Gxse ktmgmkj lux znk cgx ckxk
joyhgtjkj. Uxjkxy ngbk hkkt oyyakj lux yzgzoutotm znk luxiky ul uax
vkxsgtktz kyzghroynsktz gz bgxouay vuyozouty ot uax kdzktjkj iuatzxe cnkxk
zxuuvy sge hk xkwaoxkj. Ucotm zu znk xksuzktkyy ul yusk ul znkyk vuyozouty,
znk jkzginsktzy ngbk tuz ekz xkginkj znkox jkyzotgzout. Tuzcoznyzgtjotm znk
kdzktyout ul znk rosozy ul uax iuatzxe gtj znk luxiky xkwaoxkj ot znk tkc
zkxxozuxoky, oz oy iutlojktzre hkrokbkj zngz uax vxkyktz sorozgxe
kyzghroynsktz oy yalloioktz lux grr kdomktioky yu rutm gy uax vkgiklar
xkrgzouty xksgot atjoyzaxhkj.

Ul znk gsuatz ul sorozgxe iutzxohazouty iurrkizkj ot Skdoiu, znk yas ul
$769,650 cgy gvvrokj zucgxj znk vgesktz ul znk loxyz otyzgrrsktz jak atjkx
znk zxkgze cozn Skdoiu. Znk laxznkx yas ul $346,369.30 ngy hkkt vgoj otzu
znk Zxkgyaxe, gtj atkdvktjkj hgrgtiky yzorr xksgot ot znk ngtjy ul
joyhaxyotm ulloikxy gtj znuyk cnu ckxk ktmgmkj ot znk iurrkizout ul znkyk
sutkey. Glzkx znk vxuirgsgzout ul vkgik tu laxznkx joyhaxyksktzy ckxk sgjk
ul gte atkdvktjkj sutkey gxoyotm lxus znoy yuaxik. Znk hgrgtiky ut ngtj
ckxk joxkizkj zu hk vgoj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe, gtj otjobojagr irgosy ut znk
latj corr xksgot atgjpayzkj atzor Iutmxkyy yngrr gaznuxofk znkox ykzzrksktz
gtj vgesktz. Znkyk irgosy gxk tuz iutyojkxghrk ot tashkx ux gsuatz.

O xkiussktj zu euax lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout znk yammkyzouty ul znk
Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx gtj znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe ot xkmgxj zu rkmoyrgzout ut
znoy yahpkiz.

Uax Otjogt xkrgzouty gxk vxkyktzkj ot g suyz lgbuxghrk bokc ot znk xkvuxz
lxus znk Cgx Jkvgxzsktz. Znk coyjus ul uax vuroie ot xkmgxj zu znk zxohky
coznot uax rosozy oy irkgxre sgtolkyzkj he znkox osvxubkj gtj xgvojre
osvxubotm iutjozout.

G suyz osvuxzgtz zxkgze cozn znk Sktusutoky ngy hkkt xkiktzre tkmuzogzkj he
znk Iussoyyoutkx ul Otjogt Gllgoxy ot vkxyut, he cnoin grr znkox rgtj ot
znk Yzgzk ul Coyiutyot--hkotm ghuaz 4,000,000 gixky--ngy hkkt ikjkj zu znk
Atozkj Yzgzky. Znoy zxkgze corr hk yahsozzkj zu znk Yktgzk lux xgzoloigzout
gz gt kgxre vkxouj ul euax vxkyktz ykyyout.

Coznot znk rgyz luax ekgxy komnz osvuxzgtz zxkgzoky ngbk hkkt tkmuzogzkj
cozn jollkxktz Otjogt zxohky, gtj gz g iuyz ul $1,842,000; Otjogt rgtjy zu
znk gsuatz ul suxk zngt 18,500,000 gixky ngbk hkkt ikjkj zu znk Atozkj
Yzgzky, gtj vxuboyout ngy hkkt sgjk lux ykzzrotm ot znk iuatzxe ckyz ul znk
Soyyoyyovvo znk zxohky cnoin uiiavokj znoy rgxmk kdzktz ul znk vahroi
jusgot. Znk zozrk zu grr znk Otjogt rgtjy coznot znk ykbkxgr Yzgzky ul uax
Atout, cozn znk kdikvzout ul g lkc ysgrr xkykxbgzouty, oy tuc kdzotmaoynkj,
gtj g bgyz xkmout uvktkj lux ykzzrksktz gtj iarzobgzout.

Znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe mobky g ygzoylgizuxe
kdnohoz ul znk uvkxgzouty gtj iutjozout ul zngz hxgtin ul znk vahroi
ykxboik.

G tashkx ul ysgrr bkyykry, yaozghrk lux ktzkxotm znk suazny ul xobkxy, ckxk
pajoiouayre vaxingykj jaxotm znk cgx, gtj mgbk mxkgz klloioktie zu znk
ywagjxut ot znk Marl ul Skdoiu. Ut znk xkzaxt ul vkgik, cnkt tu rutmkx
bgraghrk lux tgbgr vaxvuyky, gtj roghrk zu iutyzgtz jkzkxouxgzout, znke
ckxk yurj gtj znk sutke vrgikj ot znk Zxkgyaxe.

Znk tashkx ul skt ot znk tgbgr ykxboik gaznuxofkj he rgc jaxotm znk cgx ngy
hkkt xkjaikj he joyingxmky hkruc znk sgdosas lodkj lux znk vkgik
kyzghroynsktz. Gjkwagzk ywagjxuty gxk sgotzgotkj ot znk ykbkxgr wagxzkxy ul
znk mruhk cnkxk kdvkxoktik ngy ynuct znkox ykxboiky sge hk suyz ayklarre
ksvruekj, gtj znk tgbgr ykxboik cgy tkbkx ot g iutjozout ul nomnkx
joyiovrotk ux mxkgzkx klloioktie.

O otbozk gzzktzout zu znk xkiussktjgzout ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe ut
znk yahpkiz ul znk Sgxotk Iuxvy. Znk xkjaizout ul znk Iuxvy gz znk ktj ul
znk cgx xkwaoxkj zngz luax ulloikxy ul kgin ul znk znxkk ruckx mxgjky
ynuarj hk jxuvvkj lxus znk xurry. G hugxj ul ulloikxy sgjk znk ykrkizout,
gtj znuyk jkyomtgzkj ckxk tkikyygxore joysoyykj, haz coznuaz gte grrkmkj
lgarz. O iutiax ot uvotout cozn znk Ykixkzgxe zngz znk ykxboik cuarj hk
osvxubkj he xkjaiotm znk tashkx ul rgtjyskt gtj otixkgyotm znk sgxotky.
Yain g skgyaxk cuarj payzole gt otixkgyk ul znk tashkx ul ulloikxy zu znk
kdzktz ul znk xkjaizout he joysoyygr, gtj yzorr znk Iuxvy cuarj ngbk lkckx
ulloikxy zngt g iuxxkyvutjotm tashkx ul skt ot znk Gxse.

Znk iutzxgizy lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgor ot yzkgsynovy, iutbkxzohrk
otzu cgx yzkgskxy, vxusoyk zu xkgrofk grr znk hktklozy zu uax iusskxik gtj
zu znk Tgbe cnoin ckxk gtzoiovgzkj. Znk loxyz yzkgskx znay ykiaxkj zu znk
Mubkxtsktz cgy rgatinkj ot Pgtagxe, 1847. Znkxk gxk tuc ykbkt, gtj ot
gtuznkx ekgx znkxk corr vxuhghre hk tuz rkyy zngt ykbktzkkt glrugz. Cnork
znoy mxkgz tgzoutgr gjbgtzgmk oy ykiaxkj, uax yuiogr gtj iusskxiogr
otzkxiuaxyk oy otixkgykj gtj vxusuzkj cozn Mkxsgte, Mxkgz Hxozgot, gtj
uznkx vgxzy ul Kaxuvk, cozn grr znk iuatzxoky ut znk ckyz iugyz ul uax
iutzotktz, kyvkiogrre cozn Uxkmut gtj Igroluxtog, gtj hkzckkt znk tuxznkxt
gtj yuaznkxt ykizouty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Iutyojkxghrk xkbktak sge hk
kdvkizkj lxus vuyzgmky, haz znk iuttkizkj rotk lxus Tkc Euxq zu Ingmxky,
gtj znktik gixuyy znk Oyznsay zu Uxkmut, igt tuz lgor zu kdkxz g hktkloiogr
otlraktik, tuz tuc zu hk kyzosgzkj, ut znk otzkxkyzy ul znk sgtalgizaxky,
iusskxik, tgbomgzout, gtj iaxxktie ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Gy gt osvuxzgtz
vgxz ul znk yeyzks, O xkiussktj zu euax lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout znk
kyzghroynsktz ul znk vxuvuykj rotk ul yzkgskxy hkzckkt Tkc Uxrkgty gtj Bkxg
Ixaf. Oz vxusoyky znk suyz ngvve xkyarzy ot iksktzotm lxoktjynov hkzckkt
znk zcu Xkvahroiy gtj kdzktjotm xkiovxuigr hktklozy zu znk zxgjk gtj
sgtalgizaxky ul huzn.

Znk xkvuxz ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr corr sgqk qtuct zu eua znk uvkxgzouty
ul zngz Jkvgxzsktz lux znk vgyz ekgx.

Oz oy mxgzoleotm zu lotj znk xkbktaky ul znk Jkvgxzsktz, atjkx znk xgzky ul
vuyzgmk tuc kyzghroynkj he rgc, yu xgvojre otixkgyotm. Znk mxuyy gsuatz ul
vuyzgmky jaxotm znk rgyz loyigr ekgx gsuatzkj zu $4,371,077, kdikkjotm znk
gttagr gbkxgmk xkikobkj lux znk totk ekgxy osskjogzkre vxkikjotm znk
vgyygmk ul znk giz ul znk 3j ul Sgxin, 1845, he znk yas ul $6,453, gtj
kdikkjotm znk gsuatz xkikobkj lux znk ekgx ktjotm znk 30zn ul Patk, 1847,
he znk yas ul $425,184.

Znk kdvktjozaxky lux znk ekgx, kdirajotm znk yas ul $94,672, grruckj he
Iutmxkyy gz ozy rgyz ykyyout zu otjobojagr irgosgtzy, gtj otirajotm znk yas
ul $100,500, vgoj lux znk ykxboiky ul znk rotk ul yzkgskxy hkzckkt Hxkskt
gtj Tkc Euxq, gsuatzkj zu $4,198,845, cnoin oy rkyy zngt znk gttagr gbkxgmk
lux znk totk ekgxy vxkbouay zu znk giz ul 1845 he $300,748.

Znk sgor xuazky ut znk 30zn jge ul Patk rgyz ckxk 163,208 sorky ot kdzktz,
hkotm gt otixkgyk jaxotm znk rgyz ekgx ul 9,390 sorky. Znk sgory ckxk
zxgtyvuxzkj ubkx znks jaxotm znk ygsk zosk 41,012,579 sorky, sgqotm gt
otixkgyk ul zxgtyvuxzgzout lux znk ekgx ul 2,124,680 sorky, cnoryz znk
kdvktyk cgy rkyy zngt zngz ul znk vxkbouay ekgx he $4,235.

Znk otixkgyk ot znk sgor zxgtyvuxzgzout coznot znk rgyz znxkk ekgxy ngy
hkkt 5,378,310 sorky, cnoryz znk kdvktyky ckxk xkjaikj $456,738, sgqotm gt
otixkgyk ul ykxboik gz znk xgzk ul 15 vkx iktz gtj g xkjaizout ot znk
kdvktyky ul suxk zngt 15 vkx iktz.

Jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx znkxk ngbk hkkt ksvruekj, atjkx iutzxgizy cozn znk
Vuyz-Ulloik Jkvgxzsktz, zcu uikgt yzkgskxy ot iutbkeotm znk sgory sutznre
hkzckkt Tkc Euxq gtj Hxkskt, gtj utk, yotik Uizuhkx rgyz, vkxluxsotm
yksosutznre ykxboik hkzckkt Ingxrkyzut gtj Ngbgtg; gtj g iutzxgiz ngy hkkt
sgjk lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk Vgioloi sgory gixuyy znk Oyznsay lxus
Ingmxky zu Vgtgsg.

Atjkx znk gaznuxoze mobkt zu znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe, znxkk uikgt
yzkgskxy ngbk hkkt iutyzxaizkj gtj yktz zu znk Vgioloi, gtj gxk kdvkizkj zu
ktzkx avut znk sgor ykxboik hkzckkt Vgtgsg gtj Uxkmut gtj znk otzkxskjogzk
vuxzy ut znk 1yz ul Pgtagxe tkdz; gtj g luaxzn ngy hkkt ktmgmkj he nos lux
znk ykxboik hkzckkt Ngbgtg gtj Ingmxky, yu zngz g xkmargx sutznre sgor rotk
corr hk qkvz av glzkx zngz zosk hkzckkt znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj uax
zkxxozuxoky ut znk Vgioloi.

Tuzcoznyzgtjotm znoy mxkgz otixkgyk ot znk sgor ykxboik, ynuarj znk xkbktak
iutzotak zu otixkgyk znk vxkyktz ekgx gy oz joj ot znk rgyz, znkxk corr hk
xkikobkj tkgx $450,000 suxk zngt znk kdvktjozaxky.

Znkyk iutyojkxgzouty ngbk ygzoylokj znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr zngz, cozn
ikxzgot sujoloigzouty ul znk giz ul 1845, znk xkbktak sge hk yzorr laxznkx
otixkgykj gtj g xkjaizout ul vuyzgmky sgjk zu g atoluxs xgzk ul 5 iktzy,
coznuaz gt otzkxlkxktik cozn znk vxotiovrk, cnoin ngy hkkt iutyzgtzre gtj
vxuvkxre ktluxikj, ul sgqotm zngz Jkvgxzsktz yayzgot ozykrl.

G ckrr-jomkyzkj inkgv-vuyzgmk yeyzks oy znk hkyz skgty ul jollayotm
otzkrromktik gsutm znk vkuvrk, gtj oy ul yu sain osvuxzgtik ot g iuatzxe yu
kdzktyobk gy zngz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zngz O xkiussktj zu euax lgbuxghrk
iutyojkxgzout znk yammkyzouty ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr lux ozy
osvxubksktz.

Tuznotm igt xkzgxj znk utcgxj vxumxkyy ul uax iuatzxe gtj vxkbktz ay lxus
gyyasotm gtj sgotzgototm znk loxyz xgtq gsutm tgzouty haz g joyxkmgxj ul
znk kdvkxoktik ul znk vgyz gtj g xkiaxxktik zu gt atcoyk vahroi vuroie. Ck
ngbk payz iruykj g luxkomt cgx he gt nutuxghrk vkgik--g cgx xktjkxkj
tkikyygxe gtj atgbuojghrk ot botjoigzout ul znk tgzoutgr xomnzy gtj nutux.
Znk vxkyktz iutjozout ul znk iuatzxe oy yosorgx ot yusk xkyvkizy zu zngz
cnoin kdoyzkj osskjogzkre glzkx znk iruyk ul znk cgx cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot ot
1815, gtj znk uiigyout oy jkkskj zu hk g vxuvkx utk zu zgqk g xkzxuyvkiz ul
znk skgyaxky ul vahroi vuroie cnoin lurruckj zngz cgx. Znkxk cgy gz zngz
vkxouj ul uax noyzuxe g jkvgxzaxk lxus uax kgxrokx vuroie. Znk ktrgxmksktz
ul znk vuckxy ul znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz he iutyzxaizout, cnoin uhzgotkj,
cgy tuz cgxxgtzkj he gte payz otzkxvxkzgzout ul znk Iutyzozazout. G lkc
ekgxy glzkx znk iruyk ul zngz cgx g ykxoky ul skgyaxky cgy gjuvzkj cnoin,
atozkj gtj iushotkj, iutyzozazkj cngz cgy zkxskj he znkox gaznuxy gtj
gjbuigzky znk "Gskxoigt yeyzks."

Znk otzxujaizout ul znk tkc vuroie cgy lux g zosk lgbuxkj he znk iutjozout
ul znk iuatzxe, he znk nkgbe jkhz cnoin ngj hkkt iutzxgizkj jaxotm znk cgx,
he znk jkvxkyyout ul znk vahroi ixkjoz, he znk jkxgtmkj yzgzk ul znk
lotgtiky gtj znk iaxxktie, gtj he znk iusskxiogr gtj vkiatogxe
kshgxxgyysktz cnoin kdzktyobkre vxkbgorkj. Znkyk ckxk tuz znk utre igayky
cnoin rkj zu ozy kyzghroynsktz. Znk kbktzy ul znk cgx cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot
gtj znk kshgxxgyysktzy cnoin ngj gzzktjkj ozy vxuykiazout ngj rklz ut znk
sotjy ul sgte ul uax yzgzkyskt znk osvxkyyout zngz uax Mubkxtsktz cgy tuz
yzxutm ktuamn, gtj zngz zu cokrj ozy xkyuaxiky yaiikyylarre ot mxkgz
kskxmktioky, gtj kyvkiogrre ot cgx, suxk vuckx ynuarj hk iutiktzxgzkj ot
ozy ngtjy. Znoy otixkgykj vuckx znke joj tuz ykkq zu uhzgot he znk
rkmozosgzk gtj vxkyixohkj sujk--gt gsktjsktz ul znk Iutyzozazout--haz he
iutyzxaizout. Znke ygc Mubkxtsktzy ot znk Urj Cuxrj hgykj avut jollkxktz
uxjkxy ul yuiokze, gtj yu iutyzozazkj gy zu znxuc znk cnurk vuckx ul
tgzouty otzu znk ngtjy ul g lkc, cnu zgdkj gtj iutzxurrkj znk sgte coznuaz
xkyvutyohoroze ux xkyzxgotz. Ot zngz gxxgtmksktz znke iutikobkj znk
yzxktmzn ul tgzouty ot cgx iutyoyzkj. Znkxk cgy gryu yuskznotm lgyiotgzotm
ot znk kgyk, radaxe, gtj joyvrge ul znk nomnkx uxjkxy, cnu jxkc znkox
ckgrzn lxus znk zuor ul znk rghuxotm sorrouty. Znk gaznuxy ul znk yeyzks
jxkc znkox ojkgy ul vurozoigr kiutuse lxus cngz znke ngj coztkyykj ot
Kaxuvk, gtj vgxzoiargxre ot Mxkgz Hxozgot. Znke ngj bokckj znk ktuxsuay
ckgrzn iutiktzxgzkj ot lkc ngtjy gtj ngj ykkt znk yvrktjux ul znk ubkxmxuct
kyzghroynsktzy ul gt gxoyzuixgie cnoin cgy avnkrj he znk xkyzxoizobk
vuroie. Znke luxmuz zu ruuq juct avut znk vuuxkx irgyyky ul znk Ktmroyn
vuvargzout, avut cnuyk jgore gtj ekgxre rghux znk mxkgz kyzghroynsktzy znke
yu sain gjsoxkj ckxk yayzgotkj gtj yavvuxzkj. Znke lgorkj zu vkxikobk zngz
znk yigtzore lkj gtj ngrl-irgj uvkxgzobky ckxk tuz utre ot ghpkiz vubkxze,
haz ckxk huatj ot ingoty ul uvvxkyyobk ykxbozajk lux znk hktkloz ul lgbuxkj
irgyyky, cnu ckxk znk kdirayobk uhpkizy ul znk igxk ul znk Mubkxtsktz.

Oz cgy tuz vuyyohrk zu xkiutyzxaiz yuiokze ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky avut znk
Kaxuvkgt vrgt. Nkxk znkxk cgy g cxozzkt Iutyzozazout, he cnoin uxjkxy gtj
zozrky ckxk tuz xkiumtofkj ux zurkxgzkj. G yeyzks ul skgyaxky cgy znkxkluxk
jkboykj, igriargzkj, ol tuz otzktjkj, zu coznjxgc vuckx mxgjagrre gtj
yorktzre lxus znk Yzgzky gtj znk sgyy ul znk vkuvrk, gtj he iutyzxaizout zu
gvvxudosgzk uax Mubkxtsktz zu znk Kaxuvkgt sujkry, yahyzozazotm gt
gxoyzuixgie ul ckgrzn lux zngz ul uxjkxy gtj zozrky.

Coznuaz xklrkizotm avut znk joyyosorgxoze ul uax otyzozazouty gtj ul znk
iutjozout ul uax vkuvrk gtj znuyk ul Kaxuvk, znke iutikobkj znk bgot ojkg
ul haorjotm av ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky g yeyzks yosorgx zu zngz cnoin znke
gjsoxkj ghxugj. Mxkgz Hxozgot ngj g tgzoutgr hgtq ul rgxmk igvozgr, ot
cnuyk ngtjy cgy iutiktzxgzkj znk iutzxurrotm sutkzgxe gtj lotgtiogr vuckx
ul znk tgzout--gt otyzozazout cokrjotm grsuyz qotmre vuckx, gtj kdkxzotm
bgyz otlraktik avut grr znk uvkxgzouty ul zxgjk gtj avut znk vuroie ul znk
Mubkxtsktz ozykrl. Mxkgz Hxozgot ngj gt ktuxsuay vahroi jkhz, gtj oz ngj
hkiusk g vgxz ul nkx vahroi vuroie zu xkmgxj znoy gy g "vahroi hrkyyotm."
Mxkgz Hxozgot ngj gryu g xkyzxoizobk vuroie, cnoin vrgikj lkzzkxy gtj
haxjkty ut zxgjk gtj zxgsskrkj znk vxujaizobk otjayzxe ul znk sgyy ul znk
tgzout. He nkx iushotkj yeyzks ul vuroie znk rgtjruxjy gtj uznkx vxuvkxze
nurjkxy ckxk vxuzkizkj gtj ktxoinkj he znk ktuxsuay zgdky cnoin ckxk rkbokj
avut znk rghux ul znk iuatzxe lux znkox gjbgtzgmk. Osozgzotm znoy luxkomt
vuroie, znk loxyz yzkv ot kyzghroynotm znk tkc yeyzks ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky
cgy znk ixkgzout ul g tgzoutgr hgtq. Tuz luxkykkotm znk jgtmkxuay vuckx gtj
iuatzrkyy kbory cnoin yain gt otyzozazout somnz ktzgor ut znk iuatzxe, tux
vkxikobotm znk iuttkizout cnoin oz cgy jkyomtkj zu luxs hkzckkt znk hgtq
gtj znk uznkx hxgtinky ul znk soyigrrkj "Gskxoigt yeyzks," haz lkkrotm znk
kshgxxgyysktzy ul znk Zxkgyaxe gtj ul znk hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe
iutykwaktz avut znk cgx, yusk ul uax yzgzkyskt cnu ngj nkrj jollkxktz gtj
yuatjkx bokcy ckxk otjaikj zu eokrj znkox yixavrky gtj, otjkkj, ykzzrkj
iutboizouty ul ozy atiutyzozazoutgroze, gtj zu mobk oz znkox ygtizout gy gt
kdvkjoktz cnoin znke bgotre nuvkj somnz vxujaik xkrokl. Oz cgy g suyz
atluxzatgzk kxxux, gy znk yahykwaktz noyzuxe gtj lotgr igzgyzxuvnk ul zngz
jgtmkxuay gtj iuxxavz otyzozazout ngbk ghatjgtzre vxubkj. Znk hgtq, cozn
ozy taskxuay hxgtinky xgsolokj otzu znk Yzgzky, yuut hxuamnz sgte ul znk
gizobk vurozoigr gtj iusskxiogr skt ot jollkxktz ykizouty ul znk iuatzxe
otzu znk xkrgzout ul jkhzuxy zu oz gtj jkvktjktzy avut oz lux vkiatogxe
lgbuxy, znay jollayotm znxuamnuaz znk sgyy ul yuiokze g mxkgz tashkx ul
otjobojagry ul vuckx gtj otlraktik zu mobk zutk zu vahroi uvotout gtj zu
giz ot iutikxz ot igyky ul kskxmktie. Znk iuxxavz vuckx ul yain g vurozoigr
ktmotk oy tu rutmkx g sgzzkx ul yvkiargzout, ngbotm hkkt joyvrgekj ot
taskxuay otyzgtiky, haz suyz yomtgrre ot znk vurozoigr yzxammrky ul 1832,
1833, gtj 1834 ot uvvuyozout zu znk vahroi corr xkvxkyktzkj he g lkgxrkyy
gtj vgzxouzoi Vxkyojktz.

Haz znk hgtq cgy haz utk hxgtin ul znk tkc yeyzks. G vahroi jkhz ul suxk
zngt $120,000,000 kdoyzkj, gtj oz oy tuz zu hk joymaoykj zngz sgte ul znk
gaznuxy ul znk tkc yeyzks joj tuz xkmgxj ozy yvkkje vgesktz gy kyyktzogr zu
znk vahroi vxuyvkxoze, haz ruuqkj avut ozy iutzotagtik gy tu tgzoutgr kbor.
Cnoryz znk jkhz kdoyzkj oz laxtoynkj grosktz zu znk tgzoutgr hgtq gtj
xktjkxkj otixkgykj zgdgzout tkikyygxe zu znk gsuatz ul znk otzkxkyz,
kdikkjotm $7,000,000 gttagrre.

Znoy uvkxgzkj ot ngxsute cozn znk tkdz hxgtin ul znk tkc yeyzks, cnoin cgy
g nomn vxuzkizobk zgxoll. Znoy cgy zu glluxj huatzoky zu lgbuxkj irgyyky
gtj vgxzoiargx vaxyaozy gz znk kdvktyk ul grr uznkxy. G vxuvuyozout zu zgd
znk cnurk vkuvrk lux znk vaxvuyk ul ktxoinotm g lkc cgy zuu sutyzxuay zu hk
uvktre sgjk. Znk yinksk cgy znkxkluxk bkorkj atjkx znk vrgayohrk haz
jkrayobk vxkzkdz ul g skgyaxk zu vxuzkiz "nusk otjayzxe," gtj sgte ul uax
vkuvrk ckxk lux g zosk rkj zu hkrokbk zngz g zgd cnoin ot znk sgot lkrr
avut rghux cgy lux znk hktkloz ul znk rghuxkx cnu vgoj oz. Znoy hxgtin ul
znk yeyzks otburbkj g vgxztkxynov hkzckkt znk Mubkxtsktz gtj znk lgbuxkj
irgyyky, znk luxskx xkikobotm znk vxuikkjy ul znk zgd osvuykj ut gxzoirky
osvuxzkj gtj znk rgzzkx znk otixkgykj vxoik ul yosorgx gxzoirky vxujaikj gz
nusk, igaykj he yain zgd. Oz oy uhbouay zngz znk vuxzout zu hk xkikobkj he
znk lgbuxkj irgyyky cuarj, gy g mktkxgr xark, hk otixkgykj ot vxuvuxzout zu
znk otixkgyk ul znk xgzky ul zgd osvuykj gtj josotoynkj gy znuyk xgzky ckxk
xkjaikj zu znk xkbktak yzgtjgxj xkwaoxkj he znk cgtzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz.
Znk xgzky xkwaoxkj zu vxujaik g yalloioktz xkbktak lux znk uxjotgxe
kdvktjozaxky ul Mubkxtsktz lux tkikyygxe vaxvuyky ckxk tuz roqkre zu mobk
zu znk vxobgzk vgxztkxy ot znoy yinksk vxulozy yalloioktz zu ygzoyle znkox
iavojoze, gtj nktik g bgxokze ul kdvkjoktzy gtj vxkzkdzy ckxk xkyuxzkj zu
lux znk vaxvuyk ul ktrgxmotm znk kdvktjozaxky gtj znkxkhe ixkgzotm g
tkikyyoze lux qkkvotm av g nomn vxuzkizobk zgxoll. Znk kllkiz ul znoy
vuroie cgy zu otzkxvuyk gxzoloiogr xkyzxoizouty avut znk tgzaxgr iuaxyk ul
znk hayotkyy gtj zxgjk ul znk iuatzxe, gtj zu gjbgtik znk otzkxkyzy ul
rgxmk igvozgroyzy gtj sutuvuroyzy gz znk kdvktyk ul znk mxkgz sgyy ul znk
vkuvrk, cnu ckxk zgdkj zu otixkgyk znkox ckgrzn.

Gtuznkx hxgtin ul znoy yeyzks cgy g iusvxknktyobk yinksk ul otzkxtgr
osvxubksktzy, igvghrk ul otjklotozk ktrgxmksktz gtj yalloioktz zu ycgrruc
av gy sgte sorrouty gttagrre gy iuarj hk kdgizkj lxus znk luxkomt iusskxik
ul znk iuatzxe. Znoy cgy g iutbktoktz gtj tkikyygxe gjpatiz ul znk
vxuzkizobk zgxoll. Oz cgy zu hk znk mxkgz ghyuxhktz ul gte yaxvray cnoin
somnz gz gte zosk giiasargzk ot znk Zxkgyaxe gtj ul znk zgdky rkbokj ut znk
vkuvrk, tuz lux tkikyygxe xkbktak vaxvuyky, haz lux znk gbuckj uhpkiz ul
glluxjotm vxuzkizout zu znk lgbuxkj irgyyky.

Gadorogxe zu znk ygsk ktj, ol oz cgy tuz gt kyyktzogr vgxz ul znk yeyzks
ozykrl, cgy znk yinksk, cnoin gz g rgzkx vkxouj uhzgotkj, lux joyzxohazotm
znk vxuikkjy ul znk ygrky ul znk vahroi rgtjy gsutm znk Yzgzky. Uznkx
kdvkjoktzy ckxk jkboykj zu zgqk sutke uaz ul znk Zxkgyaxe gtj vxkbktz ozy
iusotm ot lxus gte uznkx yuaxik zngt znk vxuzkizobk zgxoll. Znk gaznuxy gtj
yavvuxzkxy ul znk yeyzks ckxk znk gjbuigzky ul znk rgxmkyz kdvktjozaxky,
cnkznkx lux tkikyygxe ux ayklar vaxvuyky ux tuz, hkigayk znk rgxmkx znk
kdvktjozaxky znk mxkgzkx cgy znk vxkzkdz lux nomn zgdky ot znk luxs ul
vxuzkizobk jazoky.

Znkyk ykbkxgr skgyaxky ckxk yayzgotkj he vuvargx tgsky gtj vrgayohrk
gxmasktzy, he cnoin znuaygtjy ckxk jkrajkj. Znk hgtq cgy xkvxkyktzkj zu hk
gt otjoyvktyghrk loyigr gmktz lux znk Mubkxtsktz; cgy zu kwagrofk kdingtmky
gtj zu xkmargzk gtj laxtoyn g yuatj iaxxktie, grcgey gtj kbkxecnkxk ul
atoluxs bgrak. Znk vxuzkizobk zgxoll cgy zu mobk ksvruesktz zu "Gskxoigt
rghux" gz gjbgtikj vxoiky; cgy zu vxuzkiz "nusk otjayzxe" gtj laxtoyn g
yzkgje sgxqkz lux znk lgxskx. Otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy ckxk zu hxotm zxgjk
otzu kbkxe tkomnhuxnuuj gtj ktngtik znk bgrak ul kbkxe sgt'y vxuvkxze. Znk
joyzxohazout ul znk rgtj sutke cgy zu ktxoin znk Yzgzky, lotoyn znkox
vahroi cuxqy, vrgtz yinuury znxuamnuaz znkox huxjkxy, gtj xkrokbk znks lxus
zgdgzout. Haz znk lgiz zngz lux kbkxe jurrgx zgqkt uaz ul znk Zxkgyaxe lux
znkyk uhpkizy g sain rgxmkx yas cgy zxgtylkxxkj lxus znk vuiqkzy ul znk
vkuvrk zu znk lgbuxkj irgyyky cgy igxklarre iutikgrkj, gy cgy gryu znk
zktjktie, ol tuz znk arzosgzk jkyomt, ul znk yeyzks zu haorj av gt
gxoyzuixgie ul ckgrzn, zu iutzxur znk sgyyky ul yuiokze, gtj sutuvurofk znk
vurozoigr vuckx ul znk iuatzxe.

Znk ykbkxgr hxgtinky ul znoy yeyzks ckxk yu otzosgzkre hrktjkj zumkznkx
zngz ot znkox uvkxgzout kgin yayzgotkj gtj yzxktmznktkj znk uznkxy. Znkox
puotz uvkxgzout cgy zu gjj tkc haxznkty ul zgdgzout gtj zu ktiuaxgmk g
rgxmkre otixkgykj gtj cgyzklar kdvktjozaxk ul vahroi sutke. Oz cgy znk
otzkxkyz ul znk hgtq zngz znk xkbktak iurrkizkj gtj znk joyhaxyksktzy sgjk
he znk Mubkxtsktz ynuarj hk rgxmk, hkigayk, hkotm znk jkvuyozuxe ul znk
vahroi sutke, znk rgxmkx znk gsuatz znk mxkgzkx cuarj hk znk hgtq vxulozy
he ozy ayk. Oz cgy znk otzkxkyz ul znk lgbuxkj irgyyky, cnu ckxk ktxoinkj
he znk vxuzkizobk zgxoll, zu ngbk znk xgzky ul zngz vxuzkizout gy nomn gy
vuyyohrk, lux znk nomnkx znuyk xgzky znk mxkgzkx cuarj hk znkox gjbgtzgmk.
Oz cgy znk otzkxkyz ul znk vkuvrk ul grr znuyk ykizouty gtj ruigrozoky cnu
kdvkizkj zu hk hktklozkj he kdvktjozaxky lux otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy zngz znk
gsuatz iurrkizkj ynuarj hk gy rgxmk gy vuyyohrk, zu znk ktj zngz znk yas
joyhaxykj somnz gryu hk znk rgxmkx. Znk Yzgzky, hkotm znk hktkloiogxoky ot
znk joyzxohazout ul znk rgtj sutke, ngj gt otzkxkyz ot ngbotm znk xgzky ul
zgd osvuykj he znk vxuzkizobk zgxoll rgxmk ktuamn zu eokrj g yalloioktz
xkbktak lxus zngz yuaxik zu skkz znk cgtzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz coznuaz
joyzaxhotm ux zgqotm lxus znks znk rgtj latj; yu zngz kgin ul znk hxgtinky
iutyzozazotm znk yeyzks ngj g iussut otzkxkyz ot yckrrotm znk vahroi
kdvktjozaxky. Znke ngj g joxkiz otzkxkyz ot sgotzgototm znk vahroi jkhz
atvgoj gtj otixkgyotm ozy gsuatz, hkigayk znoy cuarj vxujaik gt gttagr
otixkgykj jxgot avut znk Zxkgyaxe zu znk gsuatz ul znk otzkxkyz gtj xktjkx
gamsktzkj zgdky tkikyygxe. Znk uvkxgzout gtj tkikyygxe kllkiz ul znk cnurk
yeyzks ckxk zu ktiuaxgmk rgxmk gtj kdzxgbgmgtz kdvktjozaxky, gtj znkxkhe zu
otixkgyk znk vahroi vgzxutgmk, gtj sgotzgot g xoin gtj yvrktjoj mubkxtsktz
gz znk kdvktyk ul g zgdkj gtj osvubkxoynkj vkuvrk.

Oz oy sgtolkyz zngz znoy yinksk ul ktrgxmkj zgdgzout gtj kdvktjozaxky, ngj
oz iutzotakj zu vxkbgor, sayz yuut ngbk iutbkxzkj znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk
Atout, otzktjkj he ozy lxgskxy zu hk g vrgot, inkgv, gtj yosvrk
iutlkjkxgzout ul Yzgzky, atozkj zumkznkx lux iussut vxuzkizout gtj ingxmkj
cozn g lkc yvkioloi jazoky, xkrgzotm inoklre zu uax luxkomt gllgoxy, otzu g
iutyurojgzkj ksvoxk, jkvxobotm znk Yzgzky ul znkox xkykxbkj xomnzy gtj znk
vkuvrk ul znkox payz vuckx gtj iutzxur ot znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul znkox
Mubkxtsktz. Ot znoy sgttkx znk cnurk luxs gtj ingxgizkx ul znk Mubkxtsktz
cuarj hk ingtmkj, tuz he gt gsktjsktz ul znk Iutyzozazout, haz he xkyuxzotm
zu gt atcgxxgtzghrk gtj atgaznuxofkj iutyzxaizout ul zngz otyzxasktz.

Znk otjoxkiz sujk ul rkbeotm znk zgdky he g jaze ut osvuxzy vxkbktzy znk
sgyy ul znk vkuvrk lxus xkgjore vkxikobotm znk gsuatz znke vge, gtj ngy
ktghrkj znk lkc cnu gxk znay ktxoinkj, gtj cnu ykkq zu cokrj znk vurozoigr
vuckx ul znk iuatzxe, zu jkikobk gtj jkrajk znks. Ckxk znk zgdky iurrkizkj
he g joxkiz rkbe avut znk vkuvrk, gy oy znk igyk ot znk Yzgzky, znoy iuarj
tuz uiiax.

Znk cnurk yeyzks cgy xkyoyzkj lxus ozy otikvzout he sgte ul uax ghrkyz
yzgzkyskt, yusk ul cnus juahzkj ozy iutyzozazoutgroze gtj ozy kdvkjoktie,
cnork uznkxy hkrokbkj oz cgy ot grr ozy hxgtinky g lrgmxgtz gtj jgtmkxuay
otlxgizout ul znk Iutyzozazout.

Zngz g tgzoutgr hgtq, g vxuzkizobk zgxoll--rkbokj tuz zu xgoyk znk xkbktak
tkkjkj, haz lux vxuzkizout skxkre--otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy, gtj znk
joyzxohazout ul znk vxuikkjy ul znk ygrk ul znk vahroi rgtjy gxk skgyaxky
coznuaz znk cgxxgtz ul znk Iutyzozazout cuarj, avut znk sgzaxkyz
iutyojkxgzout, ykks zu hk irkgx. Oz oy xksgxqghrk zngz tu utk ul znkyk
skgyaxky, otburbotm yain susktzuay iutykwaktiky, oy gaznuxofkj he gte
kdvxkyy mxgtz ul vuckx ot znk Iutyzozazout. Tu utk ul znks oy "otiojktz zu,
gy hkotm tkikyygxe gtj vxuvkx lux znk kdkiazout ul, znk yvkioloi vuckxy"
mxgtzkj he znk Iutyzozazout. Znk gaznuxoze atjkx cnoin oz ngy hkkt
gzzksvzkj zu payzole kgin ul znks oy jkxobkj lxus otlkxktiky gtj
iutyzxaizouty ul znk Iutyzozazout cnoin ozy rkzzkx gtj ozy cnurk uhpkiz gtj
jkyomt ju tuz cgxxgtz. Oy oz zu hk iutikobkj zngz yain ossktyk vuckxy cuarj
ngbk hkkt rklz he znk lxgskxy ul znk Iutyzozazout zu skxk otlkxktiky gtj
juahzlar iutyzxaizouty? Ngj oz hkkt otzktjkj zu iutlkx znks ut znk Lkjkxgr
Mubkxtsktz, oz oy haz xkgyutghrk zu iutirajk zngz oz cuarj ngbk hkkt jutk
he vrgot gtj atkwaobuigr mxgtzy. Znoy cgy tuz jutk; haz znk cnurk yzxaizaxk
ul cnoin znk "Gskxoigt yeyzks" iutyoyzkj cgy xkgxkj ut tu uznkx ux hkzzkx
luatjgzout zngt luxikj osvroigzouty gtj otlkxktiky ul vuckx, cnoin ozy
gaznuxy gyyaskj somnz hk jkjaikj he iutyzxaizout lxus znk Iutyzozazout.

Haz oz ngy hkkt axmkj zngz znk tgzoutgr hgtq, cnoin iutyzozazkj yu
kyyktzogr g hxgtin ul znoy iushotkj yeyzks ul skgyaxky, cgy tuz g tkc
skgyaxk, gtj zngz ozy iutyzozazoutgroze ngj hkkt vxkbouayre ygtizoutkj,
hkigayk g hgtq ngj hkkt ingxzkxkj ot 1791 gtj ngj xkikobkj znk ulloiogr
yomtgzaxk ul Vxkyojktz Cgynotmzut. G lkc lgizy corr ynuc znk payz ckomnz zu
cnoin znoy vxkikjktz ynuarj hk ktzozrkj gy hkgxotm avut znk wakyzout ul
iutyzozazoutgroze.

Mxkgz joboyout ul uvotout avut znk yahpkiz kdoyzkj ot Iutmxkyy. Oz oy ckrr
qtuct zngz Vxkyojktz Cgynotmzut ktzkxzgotkj ykxouay juahzy huzn gy zu znk
iutyzozazoutgroze gtj kdvkjoktie ul znk skgyaxk, gtj cnork znk horr cgy
hkluxk nos lux noy ulloiogr gvvxubgr ux joygvvxubgr yu mxkgz ckxk znkyk
juahzy zngz nk xkwaoxkj "znk uvotout ot cxozotm" ul znk skshkxy ul noy
Ighotkz zu goj nos ot gxxobotm gz g jkioyout. Noy Ighotkz mgbk znkox
uvotouty gtj ckxk jobojkj avut znk yahpkiz, Mktkxgr Ngsorzut hkotm ot lgbux
ul gtj Sx. Pkllkxyut gtj Sx. Xgtjurvn hkotm uvvuykj zu znk
iutyzozazoutgroze gtj kdvkjoktie ul znk hgtq. Oz oy ckrr qtuct gryu zngz
Vxkyojktz Cgynotmzut xkzgotkj znk horr lxus Sutjge, znk 14zn, cnkt oz cgy
vxkyktzkj zu nos, atzor Lxojge, znk 25zn ul Lkhxagxe, hkotm znk rgyz susktz
vkxsozzkj nos he znk Iutyzozazout zu jkrohkxgzk, cnkt nk lotgrre eokrjkj zu
oz noy xkraizgtz gyyktz gtj mgbk oz noy yomtgzaxk. Oz oy ikxzgot zngz gy
rgzk gy znk 23j ul Lkhxagxe, hkotm znk totzn jge glzkx znk horr cgy
vxkyktzkj zu nos, nk ngj gxxobkj gz tu ygzoylgizuxe iutirayout, lux ut zngz
jge nk gjjxkyykj g tuzk zu Mktkxgr Ngsorzut ot cnoin nk otluxsy nos zngz
"znoy horr cgy vxkyktzkj zu sk he znk puotz iussozzkk ul Iutmxkyy gz 12
u'iruiq ut Sutjge, znk 14zn otyzgtz," gtj nk xkwakyzkj noy uvotout "zu cngz
vxkioyk vkxouj, he rkmgr otzkxvxkzgzout ul znk Iutyzozazout, igt znk
Vxkyojktz xkzgot oz ot noy vuyykyyout hkluxk oz hkiusky g rgc he znk rgvyk
ul zkt jgey." Ol znk vxuvkx iutyzxaizout cgy zngz znk jge ut cnoin znk horr
cgy vxkyktzkj zu znk Vxkyojktz gtj znk jge ut cnoin noy gizout cgy ngj avut
oz ckxk huzn zu hk iuatzkj otirayobk, znkt znk zosk grruckj nos coznot
cnoin oz cuarj hk iusvkzktz lux nos zu xkzaxt oz zu znk Nuayk ot cnoin oz
uxomotgzkj cozn noy uhpkizouty cuarj kdvoxk ut Znaxyjge, znk 24zn ul
Lkhxagxe. Mktkxgr Ngsorzut ut znk ygsk jge xkzaxtkj gt gtyckx, ot cnoin nk
yzgzky:

O mobk oz gy se uvotout zngz eua ngbk zkt jgey kdirayobk ul zngz ut cnoin
znk horr cgy jkrobkxkj zu eua gtj Yatjgey; nktik, ot znk vxkyktz igyk ol oz
oy xkzaxtkj ut Lxojge oz corr hk ot zosk.

He znoy iutyzxaizout, cnoin znk Vxkyojktz gjuvzkj, nk mgotkj gtuznkx jge
lux jkrohkxgzout, gtj oz cgy tuz atzor znk 25zn ul Lkhxagxe zngz nk yomtkj
znk horr, znay glluxjotm iutirayobk vxuul zngz nk ngj gz rgyz uhzgotkj noy
uct iutyktz zu yomt oz tuz coznuaz mxkgz gtj grsuyz otyavkxghrk jolloiarze.
Gjjozoutgr romnz ngy hkkt xkiktzre ynkj avut znk ykxouay juahzy cnoin nk
ngj ut znk yahpkiz, gsuatzotm gz utk zosk zu g iutboizout zngz oz cgy noy
jaze zu coznnurj noy gvvxubgr lxus znk horr. Znoy oy luatj gsutm znk
sgtayixovz vgvkxy ul Sx. Sgjoyut, gaznuxofkj zu hk vaxingykj lux znk ayk ul
znk Mubkxtsktz he gt giz ul znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy, gtj tuc lux znk
loxyz zosk giikyyohrk zu znk vahroi. Lxus znkyk vgvkxy oz gvvkgxy zngz
Vxkyojktz Cgynotmzut, cnork nk ekz nkrj znk hgtq horr ot noy ngtjy,
gizagrre xkwakyzkj Sx. Sgjoyut, gz zngz zosk g skshkx ul znk Nuayk ul
Xkvxkyktzgzobky, zu vxkvgxk znk jxglz ul g bkzu skyygmk lux nos. Sx.
Sgjoyut, gz noy xkwakyz, joj vxkvgxk znk jxglz ul yain g skyygmk, gtj yktz
oz zu nos ut znk 21yz ul Lkhxagxe, 1791. G iuve ul znoy uxomotgr jxglz, ot
Sx. Sgjoyut'y uct ngtjcxozotm, cgy igxklarre vxkykxbkj he nos, gtj oy gsutm
znk vgvkxy rgzkre vaxingykj he Iutmxkyy. Oz oy vxkikjkj he g tuzk, cxozzkt
ut znk ygsk ynkkz, cnoin oy gryu ot Sx. Sgjoyut'y ngtjcxozotm, gtj oy gy
lurrucy:

Lkhxagxe 21, 1791.--Iuve ul g vgvkx sgjk uaz gtj yktz zu znk Vxkyojktz, gz
noy xkwakyz, zu hk xkgje ot igyk noy pajmsktz ynuarj lotgrre jkiojk gmgotyz
znk horr lux otiuxvuxgzotm g tgzoutgr hgtq, znk horr hkotm znkt hkluxk
nos.

Gsutm znk uhpkizouty gyyomtkj ot znoy vgvkx zu znk horr, gtj cnoin ckxk
yahsozzkj lux znk iutyojkxgzout ul znk Vxkyojktz, gxk znk lurrucotm:

O uhpkiz zu znk horr, hkigayk oz oy gt kyyktzogr vxotiovrk ul znk
Mubkxtsktz zngz vuckxy tuz jkrkmgzkj he znk Iutyzozazout igt tuz hk
xomnzlarre kdkxioykj; hkigayk znk vuckx vxuvuykj he znk horr zu hk
kdkxioykj oy tuz kdvxkyyre jkrkmgzkj, gtj hkigayk O igt tuz ygzoyle seykrl
zngz oz xkyarzy lxus gte kdvxkyy vuckx he lgox gtj yglk xarky ul
otzkxvxkzgzout.

Znk ckomnz ul znk vxkikjktz ul znk hgtq ul 1791 gtj znk ygtizout ul znk
mxkgz tgsk ul Cgynotmzut, cnoin ngy hkkt yu ulzkt otbuqkj ot ozy yavvuxz,
gxk mxkgzre ckgqktkj he znk jkbkruvsktz ul znkyk lgizy.

Znk kdvkxosktz ul zngz hgtq ygzoylokj znk iuatzxe zngz oz uamnz tuz zu hk
iutzotakj, gtj gz znk ktj ul zcktze ekgxy Iutmxkyy xklaykj zu xkingxzkx oz.
Oz cuarj ngbk hkkt luxzatgzk lux znk iuatzxe, gtj ygbkj znuaygtjy lxus
hgtqxavzie gtj xaot, ngj uax vahroi skt ul 1816 xkyoyzkj znk zksvuxgxe
vxkyyaxk ul znk zosky avut uax lotgtiogr gtj vkiatogxe otzkxkyzy gtj
xklaykj zu ingxzkx znk ykiutj hgtq. Ul znoy znk iuatzxe hkigsk ghatjgtzre
ygzoylokj, gtj gz znk iruyk ul ozy zcktze ekgxy' jaxgzout, gy ot znk igyk
ul znk loxyz hgtq, oz gryu ikgykj zu kdoyz. Atjkx znk xkvkgzkj hrucy ul
Vxkyojktz Pgiqyut oz xkkrkj gtj lkrr, gtj g yahykwaktz gzzksvz zu ingxzkx g
yosorgx otyzozazout cgy gxxkyzkj he znk bkzu ul Vxkyojktz Zerkx.

Sx. Sgjoyut, ot eokrjotm noy yomtgzaxk zu znk ingxzkx ul 1816, joj yu avut
znk mxuatj ul znk xkyvkiz jak zu vxkikjktzy; gtj, gy nk yahykwaktzre
jkirgxkj--

Znk Hgtq ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, znuamn ut znk uxomotgr wakyzout nkrj zu hk
atiutyzozazoutgr, xkikobkj znk Kdkiazobk yomtgzaxk.

Oz oy vxuhghrk zngz tkoznkx znk hgtq ul 1791 tux zngz ul 1816 cuarj ngbk
hkkt ingxzkxkj haz lux znk kshgxxgyysktzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz ot ozy
lotgtiky, znk jkxgtmksktz ul znk iaxxktie, gtj znk vkiatogxe vxkyyaxk cnoin
kdoyzkj, znk loxyz znk iutykwaktik ul znk Cgx ul znk Xkburazout gtj znk
ykiutj znk iutykwaktik ul znk Cgx ul 1812. Huzn ckxk xkyuxzkj zu ot znk
jkrayobk nuvk zngz znke cuarj xkyzuxk vahroi ixkjoz gtj glluxj xkrokl zu
znk Mubkxtsktz gtj zu znk hayotkyy ul znk iuatzxe.

Znuyk ul uax vahroi skt cnu uvvuykj znk cnurk "Gskxoigt yeyzks" gz ozy
iussktiksktz gtj znxuamnuaz ozy vxumxkyy luxkygc gtj vxkjoizkj zngz oz cgy
lxgamnz cozn otigriarghrk soyinokly gtj sayz xkyarz ot ykxouay otpaxe zu
znk hkyz otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe. Lux g ykxoky ul ekgxy znkox coyk
iuatykry ckxk atnkkjkj, gtj znk yeyzks cgy kyzghroynkj. Oz cgy yuut
gvvgxktz zngz ozy vxgizoigr uvkxgzout cgy atkwagr gtj atpayz avut jollkxktz
vuxzouty ul znk iuatzxe gtj avut znk vkuvrk ktmgmkj ot jollkxktz vaxyaozy.
Grr ckxk kwagrre ktzozrkj zu znk lgbux gtj vxuzkizout ul znk Mubkxtsktz. Oz
luyzkxkj gtj krkbgzkj znk sutke vuckx gtj ktxoinkj znk lgbuxkj lkc he
zgdotm rghux, gtj gz znk kdvktyk ul znk sgte. Ozy kllkiz cgy zu "sgqk znk
xoin xoinkx gtj znk vuux vuuxkx." Ozy zktjktie cgy zu ixkgzk joyzotizouty
ot yuiokze hgykj ut ckgrzn gtj zu mobk zu znk lgbuxkj irgyyky atjak iutzxur
gtj ycge ot uax Mubkxtsktz. Oz cgy gt uxmgtofkj sutke vuckx, cnoin xkyoyzkj
znk vuvargx corr gtj yuamnz zu yngvk gtj iutzxur znk vahroi vuroie.

Atjkx znk vkxtoiouay cuxqotmy ul znoy iushotkj yeyzks ul skgyaxky znk
iuatzxe coztkyykj grzkxtgzk ykgyuty ul zksvuxgxe gvvgxktz vxuyvkxoze, ul
yajjkt gtj joygyzxuay iusskxiogr xkbaryouty, ul atvxkikjktzkj lraizagzout
ul vxoiky gtj jkvxkyyout ul znk mxkgz otzkxkyzy ul gmxoiarzaxk, tgbomgzout,
gtj iusskxik, ul mktkxgr vkiatogxe yallkxotm, gtj ul lotgr hgtqxavzie ul
znuaygtjy. Glzkx g ykbkxk yzxammrk ul suxk zngt g wagxzkx ul g iktzaxe, znk
yeyzks cgy ubkxznxuct.

Znk hgtq ngy hkkt yaiikkjkj he g vxgizoigr yeyzks ul lotgtik, iutjaizkj gtj
iutzxurrkj yurkre he znk Mubkxtsktz. Znk iutyzozazoutgr iaxxktie ngy hkkt
xkyzuxkj, znk vahroi ixkjoz sgotzgotkj atosvgoxkj kbkt ot g vkxouj ul g
luxkomt cgx, gtj znk cnurk iuatzxe ngy hkiusk ygzoylokj zngz hgtqy,
tgzoutgr ux Yzgzk, gxk tuz tkikyygxe gy loyigr gmktzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz.
Xkbktak jazoky ngbk zgqkt znk vrgik ul znk vxuzkizobk zgxoll. Znk
joyzxohazout ul znk sutke jkxobkj lxus znk ygrk ul znk vahroi rgtjy ngy
hkkt ghgtjutkj gtj znk iuxxavzotm yeyzks ul otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy, oz oy
nuvkj, ngy hkkt kllkizagrre inkiqkj.

Oz oy tuz juahzkj zngz ol znoy cnurk zxgot ul skgyaxky, jkyomtkj zu zgqk
ckgrzn lxus znk sgte gtj hkyzuc oz avut znk lkc, ckxk zu vxkbgor znk kllkiz
cuarj hk zu ingtmk znk ktzoxk ingxgizkx ul znk Mubkxtsktz. Utk utre jgtmkx
xksgoty. Oz oy znk ykjaizouty ul zngz hxgtin ul znk yeyzks cnoin iutyoyzy
ot otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy, nurjotm uaz, gy oz juky, otjaiksktzy zu znk
vkuvrk ul vgxzoiargx ykizouty gtj ruigrozoky zu kshgxq znk Mubkxtsktz ot
znks coznuaz yzuvvotm zu igriargzk znk otkbozghrk iutykwaktiky. Znoy hxgtin
ul znk yeyzks oy yu otzosgzkre iushotkj gtj rotqkj cozn znk uznkxy zngz gy
yaxkre gy gt kllkiz oy vxujaikj he gt gjkwagzk igayk, ol oz hk xkyayiozgzkj
gtj xkbobkj gtj loxsre kyzghroynkj oz xkwaoxky tu ygmgioze zu luxkykk zngz
oz corr tkikyygxore gtj yvkkjore jxgc glzkx oz znk xkkyzghroynsktz ul g
tgzoutgr hgtq, znk xkbobgr ul g vxuzkizobk zgxoll, znk joyzxohazout ul znk
rgtj sutke, gtj tuz utre znk vuyzvutksktz zu znk joyzgtz lazaxk ul znk
vgesktz ul znk vxkyktz tgzoutgr jkhz, haz ozy gttagr otixkgyk.

O ktzkxzgot znk yurkst iutboizout zngz ol znk otzkxtgr-osvxubksktz hxgtin
ul znk "Gskxoigt yeyzks" hk tuz loxsre xkyoyzkj gz znoy zosk znk cnurk
ykxoky ul skgyaxky iusvuyotm oz corr hk yvkkjore xkkyzghroynkj gtj znk
iuatzxe hk znxuct hgiq lxus ozy vxkyktz nomn yzgzk ul vxuyvkxoze, cnoin znk
kdoyzotm vuroie ngy vxujaikj, gtj hk jkyzotkj gmgot zu coztkyy grr znk
kbory, iusskxiogr xkbaryouty, jkvxkyyout ul vxoiky, gtj vkiatogxe
kshgxxgyysktzy znxuamn cnoin ck ngbk vgyykj jaxotm znk rgyz zcktze-lobk
ekgxy.

Zu magxj gmgotyz iutykwaktiky yu xaotuay oy gt uhpkiz ul nomn tgzoutgr
osvuxzgtik, otburbotm, ot se pajmsktz, znk iutzotakj vxuyvkxoze ul znk
iuatzxe.

O ngbk lkrz oz zu hk gt osvkxgzobk uhromgzout zu coznnurj se iutyzozazoutgr
ygtizout lxus zcu horry cnoin ngj vgyykj znk zcu Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy,
otburbotm znk vxotiovrk ul znk otzkxtgr osvxubksktz hxgtin ul znk "Gskxoigt
yeyzks" gtj iutlroizotm ot znkox vxuboyouty cozn znk bokcy nkxk kdvxkyykj.

Znoy vuckx, iutlkxxkj avut znk Vxkyojktz he znk Iutyzozazout, O ngbk ut
znxkk uiigyouty jaxotm se gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktz ul znk
Mubkxtsktz jkkskj oz se jaze zu kdkxioyk, gtj ut znoy rgyz uiigyout ul
sgqotm zu Iutmxkyy gt gttagr iussatoigzout "ul znk yzgzk ul znk Atout" oz
oy tuz jkkskj otgvvxuvxogzk zu xkbokc znk vxotiovrky gtj iutyojkxgzouty
cnoin ngbk mubkxtkj se gizout. O jkks znoy znk suxk tkikyygxe hkigayk,
glzkx znk rgvyk ul tkgxre yodze ekgxy yotik znk gjuvzout ul znk
Iutyzozazout, znk vxuvxokze ul znk kdkxioyk ul znoy atjuahzkj
iutyzozazoutgr vuckx he znk Vxkyojktz ngy lux znk loxyz zosk hkkt jxgct
ykxouayre ot wakyzout he g vuxzout ul se lkrruc-iozofkty.

Znk Iutyzozazout vxubojky zngz--

Kbkxe horr cnoin yngrr ngbk vgyykj znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky gtj znk
Yktgzk yngrr, hkluxk oz hkiusk g rgc, hk vxkyktzkj zu znk Vxkyojktz ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky. Ol nk gvvxubk nk yngrr yomt oz, haz ol tuz nk yngrr xkzaxt
oz cozn noy uhpkizouty zu zngz Nuayk ot cnoin oz yngrr ngbk uxomotgzkj, cnu
yngrr ktzkx znk uhpkizouty gz rgxmk ut znkox Puaxtgr gtj vxuikkj zu
xkiutyojkx oz.

Znk vxkykxbgzout ul znk Iutyzozazout lxus otlxgizout oy znk Vxkyojktz'y
nomnkyz jaze. Nk oy huatj zu joyingxmk zngz jaze gz cngzkbkx ngfgxj ul
otiaxxotm znk joyvrkgyaxk ul znuyk cnu sge jollkx cozn nos ot uvotout. Nk
oy huatj zu joyingxmk oz gy ckrr he noy uhromgzouty zu znk vkuvrk cnu ngbk
iruznkj nos cozn noy kdgrzkj zxayz gy he noy ugzn ul ulloik, cnoin nk sge
tuz joyxkmgxj. Tux gxk znk uhromgzouty ul znk Vxkyojktz ot gte jkmxkk
rkyyktkj he znk vxkbgrktik ul bokcy jollkxktz lxus noy uct ot utk ux huzn
Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy. Oz oy tuz grutk ngyze gtj otiutyojkxgzk rkmoyrgzout
zngz nk oy xkwaoxkj zu inkiq; haz ol gz gte zosk Iutmxkyy yngrr, glzkx
gvvgxktzre larr jkrohkxgzout, xkyurbk ut skgyaxky cnoin nk jkksy yahbkxyobk
ul znk Iutyzozazout ux ul znk bozgr otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe, oz oy noy
yurkst jaze zu yzgtj ot znk hxkgin gtj xkyoyz znks. Znk Vxkyojktz oy huatj
zu gvvxubk ux joygvvxubk kbkxe horr cnoin vgyyky Iutmxkyy gtj oy vxkyktzkj
zu nos lux noy yomtgzaxk. Znk Iutyzozazout sgqky znoy noy jaze, gtj nk igt
tuz kyigvk oz ol nk cuarj. Nk ngy tu krkizout. Ot jkiojotm avut gte horr
vxkyktzkj zu nos nk sayz kdkxioyk noy uct hkyz pajmsktz. Ol nk igt tuz
gvvxubk, znk Iutyzozazout iussgtjy nos zu xkzaxt znk horr zu znk Nuayk ot
cnoin oz uxomotgzkj cozn noy uhpkizouty, gtj ol nk lgor zu ju znoy coznot
zkt jgey (Yatjgey kdikvzkj) oz yngrr hkiusk g rgc coznuaz noy yomtgzaxk.
Xomnz ux cxutm, nk sge hk ubkxxarkj he g buzk ul zcu-znoxjy ul kgin Nuayk,
gtj ot zngz kbktz znk horr hkiusky g rgc coznuaz noy ygtizout. Ol noy
uhpkizouty hk tuz znay ubkxxarkj, znk yahpkiz oy utre vuyzvutkj, gtj oy
xklkxxkj zu znk Yzgzky gtj znk vkuvrk lux znkox iutyojkxgzout gtj jkioyout.
Znk Vxkyojktz'y vuckx oy tkmgzobk skxkre, gtj tuz glloxsgzobk. Nk igt ktgiz
tu rgc. Znk utre kllkiz, znkxkluxk, ul noy coznnurjotm noy gvvxubgr ul g
horr vgyykj he Iutmxkyy oy zu yallkx znk kdoyzotm rgcy zu xksgot atingtmkj,
gtj znk jkrge uiigyoutkj oy utre zngz xkwaoxkj zu ktghrk znk Yzgzky gtj znk
vkuvrk zu iutyojkx gtj giz avut znk yahpkiz ot znk krkizout ul vahroi
gmktzy cnu corr igxxe uaz znkox coynky gtj otyzxaizouty. Gte gzzksvz zu
iukxik znk Vxkyojktz zu eokrj noy ygtizout zu skgyaxky cnoin nk igt tuz
gvvxubk cuarj hk g bourgzout ul znk yvoxoz ul znk Iutyzozazout, vgrvghrk
gtj lrgmxgtz, gtj ol yaiikyylar cuarj hxkgq juct znk otjkvktjktik ul znk
kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktz gtj sgqk znk Vxkyojktz, krkizkj he znk vkuvrk gtj
iruznkj he znk Iutyzozazout cozn vuckx zu jklktj znkox xomnzy, znk skxk
otyzxasktz ul g sgpuxoze ul Iutmxkyy. G yaxxktjkx ut noy vgxz ul znk vuckxy
cozn cnoin znk Iutyzozazout ngy otbkyzkj noy ulloik cuarj kllkiz g
vxgizoigr grzkxgzout ul zngz otyzxasktz coznuaz xkyuxzotm zu znk vxkyixohkj
vxuikyy ul gsktjsktz.

Cozn znk suzobky ux iutyojkxgzouty cnoin sge otjaik Iutmxkyy zu vgyy gte
horr znk Vxkyojktz igt ngbk tuznotm zu ju. Nk sayz vxkyask znks zu hk gy
vaxk gy noy uct, gtj ruuq utre zu znk vxgizoigr kllkiz ul znkox skgyaxky
cnkt iusvgxkj cozn znk Iutyzozazout ux znk vahroi muuj.

Haz oz ngy hkkt axmkj he znuyk cnu uhpkiz zu znk kdkxioyk ul znoy atjuahzkj
iutyzozazoutgr vuckx zngz oz gyygory znk xkvxkyktzgzobk vxotiovrk gtj znk
igvgioze ul znk vkuvrk zu mubkxt znksykrbky; zngz znkxk oy mxkgzkx yglkze
ot g taskxuay xkvxkyktzgzobk huje zngt ot znk yotmrk Kdkiazobk ixkgzkj he
znk Iutyzozazout, gtj zngz znk Kdkiazobk bkzu oy g "utk-sgt vuckx,"
jkyvuzoi ot ozy ingxgizkx. Zu kdvuyk znk lgrrgie ul znoy uhpkizout oz oy
utre tkikyygxe zu iutyojkx znk lxgsk gtj zxak ingxgizkx ul uax yeyzks. Uaxy
oy tuz g iutyurojgzkj ksvoxk, haz g iutlkjkxgzkj atout. Znk Yzgzky hkluxk
znk gjuvzout ul znk Iutyzozazout ckxk iuuxjotgzk, iu-kwagr, gtj ykvgxgzk
otjkvktjktz yubkxkomtzoky, gtj he ozy gjuvzout znke joj tuz ruyk zngz
ingxgizkx. Znke iruznkj znk Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz cozn ikxzgot vuckxy gtj
xkykxbkj grr uznkxy, otirajotm znkox uct yubkxkomtze, zu znksykrbky. Znke
magxjkj znkox uct xomnzy gy Yzgzky gtj znk xomnzy ul znk vkuvrk he znk bkxe
rosozgzouty cnoin znke otiuxvuxgzkj otzu znk Lkjkxgr Iutyzozazout, cnkxkhe
znk jollkxktz jkvgxzsktzy ul znk Mktkxgr Mubkxtsktz ckxk inkiqy avut kgin
uznkx. Zngz znk sgpuxoze ynuarj mubkxt oy g mktkxgr vxotiovrk iutzxubkxzkj
he tutk, haz znke sayz mubkxt giiuxjotm zu znk Iutyzozazout, gtj tuz
giiuxjotm zu gt atjklotkj gtj atxkyzxgotkj joyixkzout, cnkxkhe znke sge
uvvxkyy znk sotuxoze.

Znk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gxk tuz hrotj zu znk lgiz zngz znke sge hk
zksvuxgxore soyrkj, gtj zngz znkox xkvxkyktzgzobky, rkmoyrgzobk gtj
kdkiazobk, sge hk soyzgqkt ux otlraktikj ot znkox gizout he osvxuvkx
suzobky. Znke ngbk znkxkluxk otzkxvuykj hkzckkt znksykrbky gtj znk rgcy
cnoin sge hk vgyykj he znkox vahroi gmktzy bgxouay xkvxkyktzgzouty, yain gy
gyykshroky, yktgzky, gtj mubkxtuxy ot znkox ykbkxgr Yzgzky, g Nuayk ul
Xkvxkyktzgzobky, g Yktgzk, gtj g Vxkyojktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znk vkuvrk
igt he znkox uct joxkiz gmktie sgqk tu rgc, tux igt znk Nuayk ul
Xkvxkyktzgzobky, osskjogzkre krkizkj he znks, tux igt znk Yktgzk, tux igt
huzn zumkznkx coznuaz znk iutiaxxktik ul znk Vxkyojktz ux g buzk ul
zcu-znoxjy ul huzn Nuayky.

Ngvvore lux znksykrbky, znk vkuvrk ot lxgsotm uax gjsoxghrk yeyzks ul
mubkxtsktz ckxk iutyiouay ul znk otloxsozoky ul znkox xkvxkyktzgzobky, gtj
ot jkrkmgzotm zu znks znk vuckx ul rkmoyrgzout znke ngbk lktikj znks gxuatj
cozn inkiqy zu magxj gmgotyz znk kllkizy ul ngyze gizout, ul kxxux, ul
iushotgzout, gtj ul vuyyohrk iuxxavzout. Kxxux, ykrloyntkyy, gtj lgizout
ngbk ulzkt yuamnz zu xktj gyatjkx znoy ckh ul inkiqy gtj yahpkiz znk
Mubkxtsktz zu znk iutzxur ul lgtgzoi gtj yotoyzkx otlraktiky, haz znkyk
klluxzy ngbk utre ygzoylokj znk vkuvrk ul znk coyjus ul znk inkiqy cnoin
znke ngbk osvuykj gtj ul znk tkikyyoze ul vxkykxbotm znks atosvgoxkj.

Znk zxak znkuxe ul uax yeyzks oy tuz zu mubkxt he znk gizy ux jkixkky ul
gte utk ykz ul xkvxkyktzgzobky. Znk Iutyzozazout otzkxvuyky inkiqy avut grr
hxgtinky ul znk Mubkxtsktz, ot uxjkx zu mobk zosk lux kxxux zu hk iuxxkizkj
gtj jkrayout zu vgyy gcge; haz ol znk vkuvrk ykzzrk juct otzu g loxs
iutboizout jollkxktz lxus zngz ul znkox xkvxkyktzgzobky znke mobk kllkiz zu
znkox uvotouty he ingtmotm znkox vahroi ykxbgtzy. Znk inkiqy cnoin znk
vkuvrk osvuykj ut znkox vahroi ykxbgtzy ot znk gjuvzout ul znk Iutyzozazout
gxk znk hkyz kbojktik ul znkox igvgioze lux ykrl-mubkxtsktz. Znke qtuc zngz
znk skt cnus znke krkiz zu vahroi yzgzouty gxk ul roqk otloxsozoky gtj
vgyyouty cozn znksykrbky, gtj tuz zu hk zxayzkj coznuaz hkotm xkyzxoizkj he
iuuxjotgzk gaznuxozoky gtj iutyzozazoutgr rosozgzouty. Cnu zngz ngy
coztkyykj znk rkmoyrgzout ul Iutmxkyy lux znk rgyz znoxze ekgxy corr yge
zngz nk qtucy ul tu otyzgtik ot cnoin skgyaxky tuz jksgtjkj he znk vahroi
muuj ngbk hkkt igxxokj? Cnu corr jkte zngz ot znk Yzgzk mubkxtsktzy, he
iushotgzouty ul otjobojagry gtj ykizouty, ot jkxumgzout ul znk mktkxgr
otzkxkyz, hgtqy ngbk hkkt ingxzkxkj, yeyzksy ul otzkxtgr osvxubksktzy
gjuvzkj, gtj jkhzy ktzgorkj avut znk vkuvrk xkvxkyyotm znkox mxuczn gtj
osvgoxotm znkox ktkxmoky lux ekgxy zu iusk?

Glzkx yu sain kdvkxoktik oz igt tuz hk ygoj zngz ghyurazk atinkiqkj vuckx
oy yglk ot znk ngtjy ul gte utk ykz ul xkvxkyktzgzobky, ux zngz znk
igvgioze ul znk vkuvrk lux ykrl-mubkxtsktz, cnoin oy gjsozzkj ot ozy
hxugjkyz kdzktz, oy g iutirayobk gxmasktz zu vxubk znk vxajktik, coyjus,
gtj otzkmxoze ul znkox xkvxkyktzgzobky.

Znk vkuvrk, he znk Iutyzozazout, ngbk iussgtjkj znk Vxkyojktz, gy sain gy
znke ngbk iussgtjkj znk rkmoyrgzobk hxgtin ul znk Mubkxtsktz, zu kdkiazk
znkox corr. Znke ngbk ygoj zu nos ot znk Iutyzozazout, cnoin znke xkwaoxk
nk yngrr zgqk g yurkst ugzn zu yavvuxz, zngz ol Iutmxkyy vgyy gte horr
cnoin nk igt tuz gvvxubk "nk yngrr xkzaxt oz zu znk Nuayk ot cnoin oz
uxomotgzkj cozn noy uhpkizouty." Ot coznnurjotm lxus oz noy gvvxubgr gtj
yomtgzaxk nk oy kdkiazotm znk corr ul znk vkuvrk, iutyzozazoutgrre
kdvxkyykj, gy sain gy znk Iutmxkyy zngz vgyykj oz. Tu horr oy vxkyaskj zu
hk ot giiuxjgtik cozn znk vuvargx corr atzor oz yngrr ngbk vgyykj znxuamn
grr znk hxgtinky ul znk Mubkxtsktz xkwaoxkj he znk Iutyzozazout zu sgqk oz
g rgc. G horr cnoin vgyyky znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky sge hk xkpkizkj he
znk Yktgzk, gtj yu g horr vgyykj he znk Yktgzk sge hk xkpkizkj he znk
Nuayk. Ot kgin igyk znk xkyvkizobk Nuayky kdkxioyk znk bkzu vuckx ut znk
uznkx.

Iutmxkyy, gtj kgin Nuayk ul Iutmxkyy, nurj atjkx znk Iutyzozazout g inkiq
avut znk Vxkyojktz, gtj nk, he znk vuckx ul znk wagrolokj bkzu, g inkiq
avut Iutmxkyy. Cnkt znk Vxkyojktz xkiussktjy skgyaxky zu Iutmxkyy, nk gbucy
ot znk suyz yurkst luxs noy uvotouty, mobky noy buoik ot znkox lgbux, gtj
vrkjmky nosykrl ot gjbgtik zu gvvxubk znks ol vgyykj he Iutmxkyy. Ol nk
gizy coznuaz jak iutyojkxgzout, ux ngy hkkt otlraktikj he osvxuvkx ux
iuxxavz suzobky, ux ol lxus gte uznkx igayk Iutmxkyy, ux koznkx Nuayk ul
Iutmxkyy, yngrr jollkx cozn nos ot uvotout, znke kdkxioyk znkox bkzu avut
noy xkiussktjgzouty gtj xkpkiz znks; gtj znkxk oy tu gvvkgr lxus znkox
jkioyout haz zu znk vkuvrk gz znk hgrruz hud. Znkyk gxk vxuvkx inkiqy avut
znk Kdkiazobk, coykre otzkxvuykj he znk Iutyzozazout. Tutk corr hk luatj zu
uhpkiz zu znks ux zu coyn znks xksubkj. Oz oy kwagrre osvuxzgtz zngz znk
iutyzozazoutgr inkiqy ul znk Kdkiazobk avut znk rkmoyrgzobk hxgtin ynuarj
hk vxkykxbkj.

Ol oz hk ygoj zngz znk Xkvxkyktzgzobky ot znk vuvargx hxgtin ul Iutmxkyy
gxk inuykt joxkizre he znk vkuvrk, oz oy gtyckxkj, znk vkuvrk krkiz znk
Vxkyojktz. Ol huzn Nuayky xkvxkyktz znk Yzgzky gtj znk vkuvrk, yu juky znk
Vxkyojktz. Znk Vxkyojktz xkvxkyktzy ot znk kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktz znk cnurk
vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gy kgin skshkx ul znk rkmoyrgzobk jkvgxzsktz
xkvxkyktzy vuxzouty ul znks.

Znk juizxotk ul xkyzxoizout avut rkmoyrgzobk gtj kdkiazobk vuckx, cnork g
ckrr-ykzzrkj vahroi uvotout oy ktghrkj coznot g xkgyutghrk zosk zu
giiusvroyn ozy ktjy, ngy sgjk uax iuatzxe cngz oz oy, gtj ngy uvktkj zu ay
g igxkkx ul mruxe gtj ngvvotkyy zu cnoin grr uznkx tgzouty ngbk hkkt
yzxgtmkxy.

Ot znk kdkxioyk ul znk vuckx ul znk bkzu znk Vxkyojktz oy xkyvutyohrk tuz
utre zu gt ktromnzktkj vahroi uvotout, haz zu znk vkuvrk ul znk cnurk
Atout, cnu krkizkj nos, gy znk xkvxkyktzgzobky ot znk rkmoyrgzobk hxgtinky
cnu jollkx cozn nos ot uvotout gxk xkyvutyohrk zu znk vkuvrk ul vgxzoiargx
Yzgzky ux joyzxoizy, cnu iusvuyk znkox xkyvkizobk iutyzozaktioky. Zu jkte
zu znk Vxkyojktz znk kdkxioyk ul znoy vuckx cuarj hk zu xkvkgr zngz
vxuboyout ul znk Iutyzozazout cnoin iutlkxy oz avut nos. Zu ingxmk zngz ozy
kdkxioyk atjare iutzxury znk rkmoyrgzobk corr oy zu iusvrgot ul znk
Iutyzozazout ozykrl.

Ol znk Vxkyojktzogr bkzu hk uhpkizkj zu avut znk mxuatj zngz oz inkiqy gtj
zncgxzy znk vuvargx corr, avut znk ygsk vxotiovrk znk kwagroze ul
xkvxkyktzgzout ul znk Yzgzky ot znk Yktgzk ynuarj hk yzxoiqkt uaz ul znk
Iutyzozazout. Znk buzk ul g Yktgzux lxus Jkrgcgxk ngy kwagr ckomnz ot
jkiojotm avut znk suyz osvuxzgtz skgyaxky cozn znk buzk ul g Yktgzux lxus
Tkc Euxq, gtj ekz znk utk xkvxkyktzy g Yzgzk iutzgototm, giiuxjotm zu znk
kdoyzotm gvvuxzoutsktz ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky ot znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky,
haz utk znoxze-luaxzn vgxz ul znk vuvargzout ul znk uznkx. He znk
iutyzozazoutgr iusvuyozout ul znk Yktgzk g sgpuxoze ul zngz huje lxus znk
ysgrrkx Yzgzky xkvxkyktz rkyy zngt utk-luaxzn ul znk vkuvrk ul znk Atout.
Znkxk gxk znoxze Yzgzky, gtj atjkx znk kdoyzotm gvvuxzoutsktz ul
Xkvxkyktzgzobky znkxk gxk 230 Skshkxy ot znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky.
Yodzkkt ul znk ysgrrkx Yzgzky gxk xkvxkyktzkj ot zngz Nuayk he haz 50
Skshkxy, gtj ekz znk Yktgzuxy lxus znkyk Yzgzky iutyzozazk g sgpuxoze ul
znk Yktgzk. Yu zngz znk Vxkyojktz sge xkiussktj g skgyaxk zu Iutmxkyy, gtj
oz sge xkikobk znk ygtizout gtj gvvxubgr ul suxk zngt znxkk-luaxzny ul znk
Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky gtj ul grr znk Yktgzuxy lxus znk rgxmk Yzgzky,
iutzgototm suxk zngt znxkk-luaxzny ul znk cnurk vuvargzout ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky, gtj ekz znk skgyaxk sge hk jklkgzkj he znk buzky ul znk Yktgzuxy
lxus znk ysgrrkx Yzgzky. Tutk, oz oy vxkyaskj, igt hk luatj xkgje zu ingtmk
znk uxmgtofgzout ul znk Yktgzk ut znoy giiuatz, ux zu yzxoqk zngz huje
vxgizoigrre uaz ul kdoyzktik he xkwaoxotm zngz ozy gizout yngrr hk
iutluxskj zu znk corr ul znk suxk taskxuay hxgtin.

Avut znk ygsk vxotiovrk zngz znk bkzu ul znk Vxkyojktz ynuarj hk
vxgizoigrre ghuroynkj znk vuckx ul znk Boik-Vxkyojktz zu mobk znk igyzotm
buzk avut gt kwagr joboyout ul znk Yktgzk ynuarj hk ghuroynkj gryu. Znk
Boik-Vxkyojktz kdkxioyky znk bkzu vuckx gy kllkizagrre he xkpkizotm g horr
he noy igyzotm buzk gy znk Vxkyojktz juky he xklayotm zu gvvxubk gtj yomt
oz. Znoy vuckx ngy hkkt kdkxioykj he znk Boik-Vxkyojktz ot g lkc otyzgtiky,
znk suyz osvuxzgtz ul cnoin cgy znk xkpkizout ul znk horr zu xkingxzkx znk
Hgtq ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ot 1811. Oz sge ngvvkt zngz g horr sge hk vgyykj
he g rgxmk sgpuxoze ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky, gtj sge hk yavvuxzkj
he znk Yktgzuxy lxus znk rgxmkx Yzgzky, gtj znk Boik-Vxkyojktz sge xkpkiz
oz he mobotm noy buzk cozn znk Yktgzuxy lxus znk ysgrrkx Yzgzky; gtj ekz
tutk, oz oy vxkyaskj, gxk vxkvgxkj zu jkte zu nos znk kdkxioyk ul znoy
vuckx atjkx znk Iutyzozazout.

Haz oz oy, ot vuotz ul lgiz, atzxak zngz gt giz vgyykj he Iutmxkyy oy
iutirayobk kbojktik zngz oz oy gt ksgtgzout ul znk vuvargx corr. G sgpuxoze
ul znk cnurk tashkx krkizkj zu kgin Nuayk ul Iutmxkyy iutyzozazky g wauxas,
gtj g sgpuxoze ul zngz wauxas oy iusvkzktz zu vgyy rgcy. Oz somnz ngvvkt
zngz g wauxas ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky, iutyoyzotm ul g yotmrk
skshkx suxk zngt ngrl ul znk cnurk tashkx krkizkj zu zngz Nuayk, somnz vgyy
g horr he g sgpuxoze ul g yotmrk buzk, gtj ot zngz igyk g lxgizout suxk
zngt utk-luaxzn ul znk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cuarj hk xkvxkyktzkj he
znuyk cnu buzkj lux oz. Oz somnz ngvvkt zngz znk ygsk horr somnz hk vgyykj
he g sgpuxoze ul utk ul g wauxas ul znk Yktgzk, iusvuykj ul Yktgzuxy lxus
znk lolzkkt ysgrrkx Yzgzky gtj g yotmrk Yktgzux lxus g yodzkktzn Yzgzk; gtj
ol znk Yktgzuxy buzotm lux oz ngvvktkj zu hk lxus znk komnz ul znk ysgrrkyz
ul znkyk Yzgzky, oz cuarj hk vgyykj he znk buzky ul Yktgzuxy lxus Yzgzky
ngbotm haz luaxzkkt Xkvxkyktzgzobky ot znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky, gtj
iutzgototm rkyy zngt utk-yodzkktzn ul znk cnurk vuvargzout ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky. Znoy kdzxksk igyk oy yzgzkj zu orrayzxgzk znk lgiz zngz znk skxk
vgyygmk ul g horr he Iutmxkyy oy tu iutirayobk kbojktik zngz znuyk cnu
vgyykj oz xkvxkyktz znk sgpuxoze ul znk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ux
zxare xklrkiz znkox corr. Ol yain gt kdzxksk igyk oy tuz roqkre zu ngvvkt,
igyky zngz gvvxudosgzk oz gxk ul iutyzgtz uiiaxxktik. Oz oy hkrokbkj zngz
tuz g yotmrk rgc ngy hkkt vgyykj yotik znk gjuvzout ul znk Iutyzozazout
avut cnoin grr znk skshkxy krkizkj zu huzn Nuayky ngbk hkkt vxkyktz gtj
buzkj. Sgte ul znk suyz osvuxzgtz gizy cnoin ngbk vgyykj Iutmxkyy ngbk hkkt
igxxokj he g iruyk buzk ot znot Nuayky. Sgte otyzgtiky ul znoy somnz hk
mobkt. Otjkkj, uax kdvkxoktik vxubky zngz sgte ul znk suyz osvuxzgtz gizy
ul Iutmxkyy gxk vuyzvutkj zu znk rgyz jgey, gtj ulzkt znk rgyz nuaxy, ul g
ykyyout, cnkt znke gxk joyvuykj ul ot ngyzk, gtj he Nuayky haz rozzrk
kdikkjotm znk tashkx tkikyygxe zu luxs g wauxas.

Hkyojky, ot suyz ul znk Yzgzky znk skshkxy ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky
gxk inuykt he vraxgrozoky, gtj tuz he sgpuxozoky ul grr znk buzkxy ot znkox
xkyvkizobk joyzxoizy, gtj oz sge ngvvkt zngz g sgpuxoze ul zngz Nuayk sge
hk xkzaxtkj he g rkyy gmmxkmgzk buzk ul znk vkuvrk zngt zngz xkikobkj he
znk sotuxoze.

Ol znk vxotiovrk otyoyzkj ut hk yuatj, znkt znk Iutyzozazout ynuarj hk yu
ingtmkj zngz tu horr yngrr hkiusk g rgc atrkyy oz oy buzkj lux he skshkxy
xkvxkyktzotm ot kgin Nuayk g sgpuxoze ul znk cnurk vkuvrk ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky. Ck sayz xksujkr uax cnurk yeyzks, yzxoqk juct gtj ghuroyn tuz utre
znk ygrazgxe inkiqy rujmkj ot znk kdkiazobk hxgtin, haz sayz yzxoqk uaz gtj
ghuroyn znuyk rujmkj ot znk Yktgzk gryu, gtj znay vxgizoigrre otbkyz znk
cnurk vuckx ul znk Mubkxtsktz ot g sgpuxoze ul g yotmrk gyykshre--g
sgpuxoze atiutzxurrkj gtj ghyurazk, gtj cnoin sge hkiusk jkyvuzoi. Zu
iutluxs zu znoy juizxotk ul znk xomnz ul sgpuxozoky zu xark, otjkvktjktz ul
znk inkiqy gtj rosozgzouty ul znk Iutyzozazout, ck sayz xkburazoutofk uax
cnurk yeyzks; ck sayz jkyzxue znk iutyzozazoutgr iusvgiz he cnoin znk
ykbkxgr Yzgzky gmxkkj zu luxs g Lkjkxgr Atout gtj xayn otzu iutyurojgzout,
cnoin sayz ktj ot sutgxine ux jkyvuzoys. Tu utk gjbuigzky yain g
vxuvuyozout, gtj ekz znk juizxotk sgotzgotkj, ol igxxokj uaz, sayz rkgj zu
znoy xkyarz.

Utk mxkgz uhpkiz ul znk Iutyzozazout ot iutlkxxotm avut znk Vxkyojktz g
wagrolokj tkmgzobk avut znk rkmoyrgzout ul Iutmxkyy cgy zu vxuzkiz
sotuxozoky lxus otpayzoik gtj uvvxkyyout he sgpuxozoky. Znk kwagroze ul
znkox xkvxkyktzgzout ot znk Yktgzk gtj znk bkzu vuckx ul znk Vxkyojktz gxk
znk iutyzozazoutgr magxgtzoky cnoin znk ysgrrkx Yzgzky ngbk zngz znkox
xomnzy corr hk xkyvkizkj. Coznuaz znkyk magxgtzoky grr znkox otzkxkyzy
cuarj hk gz znk skxie ul sgpuxozoky ot Iutmxkyy xkvxkyktzotm znk rgxmkx
Yzgzky. Zu znk ysgrrkx gtj ckgqkx Yzgzky, znkxkluxk, znk vxkykxbgzout ul
znoy vuckx gtj ozy kdkxioyk avut vxuvkx uiigyouty jksgtjotm oz oy ul bozgr
osvuxzgtik. Znke xgzolokj znk Iutyzozazout gtj ktzkxkj otzu znk Atout,
ykiaxotm zu znksykrbky gt kwagr xkvxkyktzgzout cozn znk rgxmkx Yzgzky ot
znk Yktgzk; gtj znke gmxkkj zu hk huatj he grr rgcy vgyykj he Iutmxkyy avut
znk kdvxkyy iutjozout, gtj tutk uznkx, zngz znke ynuarj hk gvvxubkj he znk
Vxkyojktz ux vgyykj, noy uhpkizouty zu znk iutzxgxe tuzcoznyzgtjotm, he g
buzk ul zcu-znoxjy ul huzn Nuayky. Avut znoy iutjozout znke ngbk g xomnz zu
otyoyz gy g vgxz ul znk iusvgiz zu cnoin znke mgbk znkox gyyktz.

G horr somnz hk vgyykj he Iutmxkyy gmgotyz znk corr ul znk cnurk vkuvrk ul
g vgxzoiargx Yzgzk gtj gmgotyz znk buzky ul ozy Yktgzuxy gtj grr ozy
Xkvxkyktzgzobky. Nuckbkx vxkpajoiogr oz somnz hk zu znk otzkxkyzy ul yain
Yzgzk, oz cuarj hk huatj he oz ol znk Vxkyojktz yngrr gvvxubk oz ux oz
yngrr hk vgyykj he g buzk ul zcu-znoxjy ul huzn Nuayky; haz oz ngy g xomnz
zu jksgtj zngz znk Vxkyojktz yngrr kdkxioyk noy iutyzozazoutgr vuckx gtj
gxxkyz oz ol noy pajmsktz oy gmgotyz oz. Ol nk yaxxktjkx znoy vuckx, ux
lgor zu kdkxioyk oz ot g igyk cnkxk nk igt tuz gvvxubk, oz cuarj sgqk noy
luxsgr gvvxubgr g skxk suiqkxe, gtj cuarj hk ozykrl g bourgzout ul znk
Iutyzozazout, gtj znk joyyktzotm Yzgzk cuarj hkiusk huatj he g rgc cnoin
ngj tuz hkkt vgyykj giiuxjotm zu znk ygtizouty ul znk Iutyzozazout.

Znk uhpkizout zu znk kdkxioyk ul znk bkzu vuckx oy luatjkj avut gt ojkg
xkyvkizotm znk vuvargx corr, cnoin, ol igxxokj uaz, cuarj gttonorgzk Yzgzk
yubkxkomtze gtj yahyzozazk lux znk vxkyktz Lkjkxgr Mubkxtsktz g
iutyurojgzout joxkizkj he g yavvuykj taskxoigr sgpuxoze. G xkburazout ul
znk Mubkxtsktz cuarj hk yorktzre kllkizkj gtj znk Yzgzky cuarj hk yahpkizkj
zu rgcy zu cnoin znke ngj tkbkx mobkt znkox iutyzozazoutgr iutyktz.

Znk Yavxksk Iuaxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky oy otbkyzkj cozn znk vuckx zu
jkirgxk, gtj ngy jkirgxkj, gizy ul Iutmxkyy vgyykj cozn znk iutiaxxktik ul
znk Yktgzk, znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky, gtj znk gvvxubgr ul znk Vxkyojktz
zu hk atiutyzozazoutgr gtj buoj, gtj ekz tutk, oz oy vxkyaskj, igt hk luatj
cnu corr hk joyvuykj zu yzxov znoy nomnkyz pajoiogr zxohatgr atjkx znk
Iutyzozazout ul znoy giqtucrkjmkj vuckx--g vuckx tkikyygxe groqk zu ozy
otjkvktjktik gtj znk xomnzy ul otjobojagry.

Lux znk ygsk xkgyut zngz znk Kdkiazobk bkzu ynuarj, giiuxjotm zu znk
juizxotk sgotzgotkj, hk xktjkxkj tamgzuxe, gtj hk vxgizoigrre kdvatmkj lxus
znk Iutyzozazout, znoy vuckx ul znk iuaxz ynuarj gryu hk xktjkxkj tamgzuxe
gtj hk kdvatmkj, hkigayk oz xkyzxgoty znk rkmoyrgzobk gtj Kdkiazobk corr,
gtj hkigayk znk kdkxioyk ul yain g vuckx he znk iuaxz sge hk xkmgxjkj gy
hkotm ot iutlroiz cozn znk igvgioze ul znk vkuvrk zu mubkxt znksykrbky.
Otjkkj, znkxk oy suxk xkgyut lux yzxoqotm znoy vuckx ul znk iuaxz lxus znk
Iutyzozazout zngt znkxk oy zngz ul znk wagrolokj bkzu ul znk vxkyojktz,
hkigayk znk jkioyout ul znk iuaxz oy lotgr, gtj igt tkbkx hk xkbkxykj kbkt
znuamn huzn Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy gtj znk Vxkyojktz ynuarj hk atgtosuay ot
uvvuyozout zu oz, cnkxkgy znk bkzu ul znk Vxkyojktz sge hk ubkxxarkj he g
buzk ul zcu-znoxjy ul huzn Nuayky ul Iutmxkyy ux he znk vkuvrk gz znk
vurry.

Oz oy uhbouay zngz zu vxkykxbk znk yeyzks kyzghroynkj he znk Iutyzozazout
kgin ul znk iuuxjotgzk hxgtinky ul znk Mubkxtsktz--znk kdkiazobk,
rkmoyrgzobk, gtj pajoiogr--sayz hk rklz ot znk kdkxioyk ul ozy gvvxuvxogzk
vuckxy. Ol znk kdkiazobk ux znk pajoiogr hxgtin hk jkvxobkj ul vuckxy
iutlkxxkj avut koznkx gy inkiqy ut znk rkmoyrgzobk, znk vxkvutjkxgtik ul
znk rgzzkx corr hkiusk joyvxuvuxzoutgzk gtj ghyuxhotm gtj znk uznkxy
osvuzktz lux znk giiusvroynsktz ul znk mxkgz uhpkizy lux cnoin znke ckxk
kyzghroynkj. Uxmgtofkj, gy znke gxk, he znk Iutyzozazout, znke cuxq
zumkznkx ngxsutouayre lux znk vahroi muuj. Ol znk Kdkiazobk gtj znk
pajoiogxe yngrr hk jkvxobkj ul znk iutyzozazoutgr vuckxy otbkyzkj ot znks,
gtj ul znkox jak vxuvuxzouty, znk kwaorohxoas ul znk yeyzks sayz hk
jkyzxuekj, gtj iutyurojgzout, cozn znk suyz vkxtoiouay xkyarzy, sayz
ktyak--g iutyurojgzout ul atinkiqkj, jkyvuzoi vuckx, kdkxioykj he
sgpuxozoky ul znk rkmoyrgzobk hxgtin.

Znk kdkiazobk, rkmoyrgzobk, gtj pajoiogr kgin iutyzozazky g ykvgxgzk
iuuxjotgzk jkvgxzsktz ul znk Mubkxtsktz, gtj kgin oy otjkvktjktz ul znk
uznkxy. Ot znk vkxluxsgtik ul znkox xkyvkizobk jazoky atjkx znk
Iutyzozazout tkoznkx igt ot ozy rkmozosgzk gizout iutzxur znk uznkxy. Znke
kgin giz avut znkox ykbkxgr xkyvutyohorozoky ot znkox xkyvkizobk yvnkxky.
Haz ol znk juizxotky tuc sgotzgotkj hk iuxxkiz, znk kdkiazobk sayz hkiusk
vxgizoigrre yahuxjotgzk zu znk rkmoyrgzobk, gtj znk pajoiogxe sayz hkiusk
yahuxjotgzk zu huzn znk rkmoyrgzobk gtj znk kdkiazobk; gtj znay znk cnurk
vuckx ul znk Mubkxtsktz cuarj hk skxmkj ot g yotmrk jkvgxzsktz. Cnktkbkx,
ol kbkx, znoy yngrr uiiax, uax mruxouay yeyzks ul ckrr-xkmargzkj
ykrl-mubkxtsktz corr ixashrk otzu xaoty, zu hk yaiikkjkj, loxyz he gtgxine,
gtj lotgrre he sutgxine ux jkyvuzoys. O gs lgx lxus hkrokbotm zngz znoy
juizxotk oy znk yktzosktz ul znk Gskxoigt vkuvrk; gtj jaxotm znk ynuxz
vkxouj cnoin xksgoty ot cnoin oz corr hk se jaze zu gjsotoyzkx znk
kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktz oz corr hk se gos zu sgotzgot ozy otjkvktjktik gtj
joyingxmk ozy jazoky coznuaz otlxotmotm avut znk vuckxy ux jazoky ul koznkx
ul znk uznkx jkvgxzsktzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz.

Znk vuckx ul znk Kdkiazobk bkzu cgy kdkxioykj he znk loxyz gtj suyz
orrayzxouay ul se vxkjkikyyuxy gtj he luax ul noy yaiikyyuxy cnu vxkikjkj
sk ot znk gjsotoyzxgzout ul znk Mubkxtsktz, gtj oz oy hkrokbkj ot tu
otyzgtik vxkpajoiogrre zu znk vahroi otzkxkyzy. Oz ngy tkbkx hkkt gtj znkxk
oy haz rozzrk jgtmkx zngz oz kbkx igt hk ghaykj. Tu Vxkyojktz corr kbkx
jkyoxk attkikyygxore zu vrgik noy uvotout ot uvvuyozout zu zngz ul
Iutmxkyy. Nk sayz grcgey kdkxioyk znk vuckx xkraizgtzre, gtj utre ot igyky
cnkxk noy iutboizouty sgqk oz g sgzzkx ul yzkxt jaze, cnoin nk igt tuz
kyigvk. Otjkkj, znkxk oy suxk jgtmkx zngz znk Vxkyojktz, lxus znk
xkvamtgtik nk sayz grcgey lkkr zu iusk ot iurroyout cozn Iutmxkyy, sge lgor
zu kdkxioyk oz ot igyky cnkxk znk vxkykxbgzout ul znk Iutyzozazout lxus
otlxgizout, ux znk vahroi muuj, sge jksgtj oz zngt zngz nk corr kbkx
kdkxioyk oz attkikyygxore ux cgtzutre.

Jaxotm znk vkxouj O ngbk gjsotoyzkxkj znk kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktz ul znk
Mubkxtsktz mxkgz gtj osvuxzgtz wakyzouty ul vahroi vuroie, luxkomt gtj
juskyzoi, ngbk gxoykt, avut cnoin oz cgy se jaze zu giz. Oz sge, otjkkj, hk
zxare ygoj zngz se Gjsotoyzxgzout ngy lgrrkt avut kbktzlar zosky. O ngbk
lkrz suyz yktyohre znk ckomnz ul znk nomn xkyvutyohorozoky jkburbkj avut
sk. Cozn tu uznkx uhpkiz zngt znk vahroi muuj, znk ktjaxotm lgsk, gtj
vkxsgtktz vxuyvkxoze ul se iuatzxe, O ngbk vaxyakj znk iutboizouty ul se
uct hkyz pajmsktz. Znk osvgxzogr gxhozxgsktz ul ktromnzktkj vahroi uvotout,
vxkyktz gtj lazaxk, corr jkzkxsotk nuc lgx znk vahroi vuroie O ngbk
sgotzgotkj gtj znk skgyaxky O ngbk lxus zosk zu zosk xkiussktjkj sge ngbk
zktjkj zu gjbgtik ux xkzgxj znk vahroi vxuyvkxoze gz nusk gtj zu krkbgzk ux
jkvxkyy znk kyzosgzk ul uax tgzoutgr ingxgizkx ghxugj.

Otbuqotm znk hrkyyotmy ul znk Grsomnze avut euax jkrohkxgzouty gz euax
vxkyktz osvuxzgtz ykyyout, se gxjktz nuvk oy zngz ot g yvoxoz ul ngxsute
gtj iutiuxj eua sge hk maojkj zu coyk xkyarzy, gtj yain gy sge xkjuatj zu
znk ngvvotkyy, znk nutux, gtj znk mruxe ul uax hkrubkj iuatzxe.

PGSKY Q. VURQ