Lkrruc-Iozofkty ul znk Yktgzk gtj ul znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky:

Znk gttagr skkzotm ul Iutmxkyy oy grcgey gt otzkxkyzotm kbktz. Znk
xkvxkyktzgzobky ul znk Yzgzky gtj ul znk vkuvrk iusk lxkyn lxus znkox
iutyzozaktzy zu zgqk iuatykr zumkznkx lux znk iussut muuj.

Glzkx gt kdoyzktik ul tkgx znxkk-luaxzny ul g iktzaxe gy g lxkk gtj
otjkvktjktz Xkvahroi, znk vxuhrks tu rutmkx xksgoty zu hk yurbkj cnkznkx
sgt oy igvghrk ul ykrl-mubkxtsktz. Znk yaiikyy ul uax gjsoxghrk yeyzks oy g
iutirayobk xklazgzout ul znk znkuxoky ul znuyk ot uznkx iuatzxoky cnu
sgotzgot zngz g "lgbuxkj lkc" gxk huxt zu xark gtj zngz znk sgyy ul sgtqotj
sayz hk mubkxtkj he luxik. Yahpkiz zu tu gxhozxgxe ux nkxkjozgxe gaznuxoze,
znk vkuvrk gxk znk utre yubkxkomty xkiumtofkj he uax Iutyzozazout.

Taskxuay ksomxgtzy, ul kbkxe rotkgmk gtj rgtmagmk, gzzxgizkj he znk iobor
gtj xkromouay lxkkjus ck ktpue gtj he uax ngvve iutjozout, gttagrre ixucj
zu uax ynuxky, gtj zxgtylkx znkox nkgxz, tuz rkyy zngt znkox grrkmogtik, zu
znk iuatzxe cnuyk jusotout hkrutmy grutk zu znk vkuvrk. Tu iuatzxe ngy hkkt
yu sain lgbuxkj, ux ynuarj giqtucrkjmk cozn jkkvkx xkbkxktik znk
sgtolkyzgzouty ul znk jobotk vxuzkizout. Gt grr coyk Ixkgzux joxkizkj gtj
magxjkj ay ot uax otlgtz yzxammrk lux lxkkjus gtj ngy iutyzgtzre cgzinkj
ubkx uax yaxvxoyotm vxumxkyy atzor ck ngbk hkiusk utk ul znk mxkgz tgzouty
ul znk kgxzn.

Oz oy ot g iuatzxe znay lgbuxkj, gtj atjkx g Mubkxtsktz ot cnoin znk
kdkiazobk gtj rkmoyrgzobk hxgtinky nurj znkox gaznuxoze lux rosozkj vkxoujy
groqk lxus znk vkuvrk, gtj cnkxk grr gxk xkyvutyohrk zu znkox xkyvkizobk
iutyzozaktioky, zngz oz oy gmgot se jaze zu iussatoigzk cozn Iutmxkyy avut
znk yzgzk ul znk Atout gtj znk vxkyktz iutjozout ul vahroi gllgoxy.

Jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx znk suyz mxgzoleotm vxuuly gxk vxkyktzkj zngz uax
iuatzxe ngy hkkt hrkyykj cozn g cojkyvxkgj gtj atobkxygr vxuyvkxoze. Znkxk
ngy hkkt tu vkxouj yotik znk Mubkxtsktz cgy luatjkj cnkt grr znk otjayzxogr
vaxyaozy ul uax vkuvrk ngbk hkkt suxk yaiikyylar ux cnkt rghux ot grr
hxgtinky ul hayotkyy ngy xkikobkj g lgoxkx ux hkzzkx xkcgxj. Lxus uax
ghatjgtik ck ngbk hkkt ktghrkj zu vkxluxs znk vrkgyotm jaze ul laxtoynotm
luuj lux znk yzgxbotm sorrouty ul rkyy lgbuxkj iuatzxoky.

Ot znk ktpuesktz ul znk huatzoky ul Vxubojktik gz nusk yain gy ngbk xgxkre
lgrrkt zu znk ruz ul gte vkuvrk, oz oy igayk ul iutmxgzargzout zngz uax
otzkxiuaxyk cozn grr znk vuckxy ul znk kgxzn kdikvz Skdoiu iutzotaky zu hk
ul gt gsoighrk ingxgizkx.

Oz ngy kbkx hkkt uax inkxoynkj vuroie zu iarzobgzk vkgik gtj muuj corr cozn
grr tgzouty, gtj znoy vuroie ngy hkkt yzkgjore vaxyakj he sk. Tu ingtmk ngy
zgqkt vrgik ot uax xkrgzouty cozn Skdoiu yotik znk gjpuaxtsktz ul znk rgyz
Iutmxkyy. Znk cgx ot cnoin znk Atozkj Yzgzky ckxk luxikj zu ktmgmk cozn znk
Mubkxtsktz ul zngz iuatzxe yzorr iutzotaky.

O jkks oz attkikyygxe, glzkx znk larr kdvuyozout ul znks iutzgotkj ot se
skyygmk ul znk 11zn ul Sge, 1846, gtj ot se gttagr skyygmk gz znk
iussktiksktz ul znk ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy ot Jkikshkx rgyz, zu xkozkxgzk znk
ykxouay igayky ul iusvrgotz cnoin ck ngj gmgotyz Skdoiu hkluxk ynk
iussktikj nuyzorozoky.

Oz oy yalloioktz ut znk vxkyktz uiigyout zu yge zngz znk cgtzut bourgzout
ul znk xomnzy ul vkxyut gtj vxuvkxze ul uax iozofkty iussozzkj he Skdoiu,
nkx xkvkgzkj gizy ul hgj lgozn znxuamn g rutm ykxoky ul ekgxy, gtj nkx
joyxkmgxj ul yurkst zxkgzoky yzovargzotm lux otjkstoze zu uax otpaxkj
iozofkty tuz utre iutyzozazkj gsvrk igayk ul cgx ut uax vgxz, haz ckxk ul
yain gt gmmxgbgzkj ingxgizkx gy cuarj ngbk payzolokj ay hkluxk znk cnurk
cuxrj ot xkyuxzotm zu znoy kdzxksk xkskje. Cozn gt gtdouay jkyoxk zu gbuoj
g xavzaxk hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky, ck luxhuxk lux ekgxy zu gyykxz uax
irkgx xomnzy he luxik, gtj iutzotakj zu ykkq xkjxkyy lux znk cxutmy ck ngj
yallkxkj he gsoighrk tkmuzogzout ot znk nuvk zngz Skdoiu somnz eokrj zu
vgioloi iuatykry gtj znk jksgtjy ul payzoik. Ot znoy nuvk ck ckxk
joygvvuotzkj. Uax sotoyzkx ul vkgik yktz zu Skdoiu cgy otyarzotmre
xkpkizkj. Znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz xklaykj kbkt zu nkgx znk zkxsy ul
gjpayzsktz cnoin nk cgy gaznuxofkj zu vxuvuyk, gtj lotgrre, atjkx cnurre
atpayzologhrk vxkzkdzy, otburbkj znk zcu iuatzxoky ot cgx he otbgjotm znk
zkxxozuxe ul znk Yzgzk ul Zkdgy, yzxoqotm znk loxyz hruc, gtj ynkjjotm znk
hruuj ul uax iozofkty ut uax uct yuor.

Znuamn znk Atozkj Yzgzky ckxk znk gmmxokbkj tgzout, Skdoiu iussktikj znk
cgx, gtj ck ckxk iusvkrrkj ot ykrl-jklktyk zu xkvkr znk otbgjkx gtj zu
botjoigzk znk tgzoutgr nutux gtj otzkxkyzy he vxuykiazotm oz cozn bomux
atzor ck iuarj uhzgot g payz gtj nutuxghrk vkgik. Ut rkgxtotm zngz
nuyzorozoky ngj hkkt iussktikj he Skdoiu O vxusvzre iussatoigzkj zngz lgiz,
giiusvgtokj cozn g yaiiotiz yzgzksktz ul uax uznkx igayky ul iusvrgotz
gmgotyz Skdoiu, zu Iutmxkyy, gtj zngz huje, he znk giz ul znk 13zn ul Sge,
1846, jkirgxkj zngz "he znk giz ul znk Xkvahroi ul Skdoiu g yzgzk ul cgx
kdoyzy hkzckkt zngz Mubkxtsktz gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky." Znoy giz jkirgxotm
"znk cgx zu kdoyz he znk giz ul znk Xkvahroi ul Skdoiu," gtj sgqotm
vxuboyout lux ozy vxuykiazout "zu g yvkkje gtj yaiikyylar zkxsotgzout," cgy
vgyykj cozn mxkgz atgtosoze he Iutmxkyy, znkxk hkotm haz zcu tkmgzobk buzky
ot znk Yktgzk gtj haz luaxzkkt ot znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky.

Znk kdoyzktik ul znk cgx ngbotm znay hkkt jkirgxkj he Iutmxkyy, oz hkigsk
se jaze atjkx znk Iutyzozazout gtj znk rgcy zu iutjaiz gtj vxuykiazk oz.
Znoy jaze ngy hkkt vkxluxskj, gtj znuamn gz kbkxe yzgmk ul ozy vxumxkyy O
ngbk sgtolkyzkj g corrotmtkyy zu zkxsotgzk oz he g payz vkgik, Skdoiu ngy
xklaykj zu giikjk zu gte zkxsy cnoin iuarj hk giikvzkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky
iutyoyzktzre cozn znk tgzoutgr nutux gtj otzkxkyz.

Znk xgvoj gtj hxorrogtz yaiikyyky ul uax gxsy gtj znk bgyz kdzktz ul znk
ktkse'y zkxxozuxe cnoin ngj hkkt ubkxxat gtj iutwakxkj hkluxk znk iruyk ul
znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy ckxk larre qtuct zu zngz huje. Yotik zngz zosk
znk cgx ngy hkkt vxuykiazkj cozn otixkgykj ktkxme, gtj, O gs mxgzolokj zu
yzgzk, cozn g yaiikyy cnoin iussgtjy atobkxygr gjsoxgzout.. Noyzuxe
vxkyktzy tu vgxgrrkr ul yu sgte mruxouay boizuxoky ginokbkj he gte tgzout
coznot yu ynuxz g vkxouj. Uax Gxse, xkmargxy gtj buratzkkxy, ngbk iubkxkj
znksykrbky cozn osvkxoynghrk nutuxy. Cnktkbkx gtj cnkxkbkx uax luxiky ngbk
ktiuatzkxkj znk ktkse, znuamn nk cgy ot bgyzre yavkxoux tashkxy gtj ulzkt
otzxktinkj ot luxzolokj vuyozouty ul noy uct ykrkizout gtj ul mxkgz
yzxktmzn, nk ngy hkkt jklkgzkj. Zuu sain vxgoyk igt tuz hk hkyzuckj avut
uax ulloikxy gtj skt, xkmargxy gtj buratzkkxy, lux znkox mgrrgtzxe,
joyiovrotk, otjusozghrk iuaxgmk, gtj vkxykbkxgtik, grr ykkqotm znk vuyz ul
jgtmkx gtj beotm cozn kgin uznkx ot jkkjy ul tuhrk jgxotm.

Cnork kbkxe vgzxouz'y nkgxz sayz kdarz gtj g payz tgzoutgr vxojk gtosgzk
kbkxe huyus ot hknurjotm znk nomn vxuuly ul iuaxgmk, iutyassgzk sorozgxe
yqorr, yzkgje joyiovrotk, gtj nasgtoze zu znk bgtwaoynkj ktkse kdnohozkj he
uax mgrrgtz Gxse, znk tgzout oy igrrkj zu suaxt ubkx znk ruyy ul sgte hxgbk
ulloikxy gtj yurjokxy, cnu ngbk lgrrkt ot jklktyk ul znkox iuatzxe'y nutux
gtj otzkxkyzy. Znk hxgbk jkgj skz znkox skrgtinure lgzk ot g luxkomt rgtj,
tuhre joyingxmotm znkox jaze, gtj cozn znkox iuatzxe'y lrgm cgbotm
zxoasvngtzre ot znk lgik ul znk luk. Znkox vgzxouzoi jkkjy gxk payzre
gvvxkiogzkj, gtj corr rutm hk xkskshkxkj he znkox mxgzklar iuatzxeskt. Znk
vgxktzgr igxk ul znk Mubkxtsktz znke rubkj gtj ykxbkj ynuarj hk kdzktjkj zu
znkox yaxbobotm lgsoroky.

Ynuxzre glzkx znk gjpuaxtsktz ul znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy znk
mxgzoleotm otzkrromktik cgy xkikobkj ul znk yomtgr boizuxe ul Haktg Boyzg,
gtj ul znk lgrr ul znk ioze ul Bkxg Ixaf, gtj cozn oz znk yzxutm igyzrk ul
Ygt Pagt jk Arrug, he cnoin oz cgy jklktjkj. Hkrokbotm zngz glzkx znkyk gtj
uznkx yaiikyyky yu nutuxghrk zu uax gxsy gtj yu joygyzxuay zu Skdoiu znk
vkxouj cgy vxuvozouay zu glluxj nkx gtuznkx uvvuxzatoze, ol ynk znuamnz
vxuvkx zu kshxgik oz, zu ktzkx otzu tkmuzogzouty lux vkgik, g iussoyyoutkx
cgy gvvuotzkj zu vxuikkj zu znk nkgjwagxzkxy ul uax Gxse cozn larr vuckxy
zu ktzkx avut tkmuzogzouty gtj zu iutirajk g payz gtj nutuxghrk zxkgze ul
vkgik. Nk cgy tuz joxkizkj zu sgqk gte tkc ubkxzaxky ul vkgik, haz cgy znk
hkgxkx ul g joyvgzin lxus znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu
znk sotoyzkx ul luxkomt gllgoxy ul Skdoiu, ot xkvre zu utk xkikobkj lxus
znk rgzzkx ul znk 22j ul Lkhxagxe, 1847, ot cnoin znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz
cgy otluxskj ul noy gvvuotzsktz gtj ul noy vxkyktik gz znk nkgjwagxzkxy ul
uax Gxse, gtj zngz nk cgy otbkyzkj cozn larr vuckxy zu iutirajk g
jklotozobk zxkgze ul vkgik cnktkbkx znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz somnz yomtole g
jkyoxk zu ju yu. Cnork O cgy atcorrotm zu yahpkiz znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu
gtuznkx otjomtgtz xklaygr, O cgy ekz xkyurbkj zngz znk kbory ul znk cgx
ynuarj tuz hk vxuzxgizkj g jge rutmkx zngt somnz hk xktjkxkj ghyurazkre
tkikyygxe he znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz.

Igxk cgy zgqkt zu mobk tu otyzxaizouty zu znk iussoyyoutkx cnoin iuarj ot
gte cge otzkxlkxk cozn uax sorozgxe uvkxgzouty ux xkrgd uax ktkxmoky ot znk
vxuykiazout ul znk cgx. Nk vuyykyykj tu gaznuxoze ot gte sgttkx zu iutzxur
znkyk uvkxgzouty. Nk cgy gaznuxofkj zu kdnohoz noy otyzxaizouty zu znk
mktkxgr ot iussgtj ul znk Gxse, gtj ot znk kbktz ul g zxkgze hkotm
iutirajkj gtj xgzolokj ut znk vgxz ul Skdoiu nk cgy joxkizkj zu mobk nos
tuzoik ul zngz lgiz. Ut znk ngvvktotm ul yain iutzotmktie, gtj ut xkikobotm
tuzoik znkxkul, znk mktkxgr ot iussgtj cgy otyzxaizkj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul
Cgx zu yayvktj laxznkx gizobk sorozgxe uvkxgzouty atzor laxznkx uxjkxy.
Znkyk otyzxaizouty ckxk mobkt cozn g bokc zu otzkxsoz nuyzorozoky atzor znk
zxkgze znay xgzolokj he Skdoiu iuarj hk zxgtysozzkj zu Cgynotmzut gtj
xkikobk znk gizout ul znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znk iussoyyoutkx
cgy gryu joxkizkj ut xkginotm znk Gxse zu jkrobkx zu znk mktkxgr ot iussgtj
znk joyvgzin cnoin nk huxk lxus znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk zu znk sotoyzkx ul
luxkomt gllgoxy ul Skdoiu, gtj ut xkikobotm oz znk mktkxgr cgy otyzxaizkj
he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx zu igayk oz zu hk zxgtysozzkj zu znk iussgtjkx ul
znk Skdoigt luxiky, cozn g wakyz zngz oz somnz hk iussatoigzkj zu noy
Mubkxtsktz. Znk iussoyyoutkx joj tuz xkgin znk nkgjwagxzkxy ul znk Gxse
atzor glzkx gtuznkx hxorrogtz boizuxe ngj ixuctkj uax gxsy gz Ikxxu Muxju.
Znk joyvgzin cnoin nk huxk lxus znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx zu znk mktkxgr ot
iussgtj ul znk Gxse cgy xkikobkj he zngz ulloikx, znkt gz Pgrgvg, ut znk
7zn ul Sge, 1847, zumkznkx cozn znk joyvgzin lxus znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk zu
znk sotoyzkx ul luxkomt gllgoxy ul Skdoiu, ngbotm hkkt zxgtysozzkj zu nos
lxus Bkxg Ixaf. Znk iussoyyoutkx gxxobkj gz znk nkgjwagxzkxy ul znk Gxse g
lkc jgey glzkxcgxjy. Noy vxkyktik cozn znk Gxse gtj noy jovrusgzoi
ingxgizkx ckxk sgjk qtuct zu znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz lxus Vakhrg ut znk 12zn
ul Patk, 1847, he znk zxgtysoyyout ul znk joyvgzin lxus znk Ykixkzgxe ul
Yzgzk zu znk sotoyzkx ul luxkomt gllgoxy ul Skdoiu.

Sgte ckkqy krgvykj glzkx ozy xkikovz, gtj tu ubkxzaxky ckxk sgjk tux cgy
gte jkyoxk kdvxkyykj he znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz zu ktzkx otzu tkmuzogzouty
lux vkgik.

Uax Gxse vaxyakj ozy sgxin avut znk igvozgr, gtj gy oz gvvxuginkj oz cgy
skz he luxsojghrk xkyoyzgtik. Uax luxiky loxyz ktiuatzkxkj znk ktkse, gtj
ginokbkj yomtgr boizuxoky ot znk ykbkxkre iutzkyzkj hgzzrky ul Iutzxkxgy
gtj Inaxahayiu. Oz cgy tuz atzor glzkx znkyk gizouty ngj xkyarzkj ot
jkioyobk boizuxoky gtj znk igvozgr ul znk ktkse cgy coznot uax vuckx zngz
znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz sgtolkyzkj gte joyvuyozout zu ktzkx otzu
tkmuzogzouty lux vkgik, gtj kbkt znkt, gy kbktzy ngbk vxubkj, znkxk oy zuu
sain xkgyut zu hkrokbk znke ckxk otyotikxk, gtj zngz ot gmxkkotm zu mu
znxuamn znk luxsy ul tkmuzogzout znk uhpkiz cgy zu mgot zosk zu yzxktmznkt
znk jklktyky ul znkox igvozgr gtj zu vxkvgxk lux lxkyn xkyoyzgtik.

Znk mktkxgr ot iussgtj ul znk Gxse jkkskj oz kdvkjoktz zu yayvktj
nuyzorozoky zksvuxgxore he ktzkxotm otzu gt gxsoyzoik cozn g bokc zu znk
uvktotm ul tkmuzogzouty. Iussoyyoutkxy ckxk gvvuotzkj ut znk vgxz ul Skdoiu
zu skkz znk iussoyyoutkx ut znk vgxz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znk xkyarz ul
znk iutlkxktiky cnoin zuuq vrgik hkzckkt znkyk latizoutgxoky ul znk zcu
Mubkxtsktzy cgy g lgoraxk zu iutirajk g zxkgze ul vkgik. Znk iussoyyoutkx
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zuuq cozn nos znk vxupkiz ul g zxkgze grxkgje
vxkvgxkj, he znk zkxsy ul cnoin znk otjkstoze xkwaoxkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky
cgy g ikyyout ul zkxxozuxe.

Oz oy ckrr qtuct zngz znk utre otjkstoze cnoin oz oy ot znk vuckx ul Skdoiu
zu sgqk ot ygzoylgizout ul znk payz gtj rutm-jklkxxkj irgosy ul uax
iozofkty gmgotyz nkx gtj znk utre skgty he cnoin ynk igt xkoshaxyk znk
Atozkj Yzgzky lux znk kdvktyky ul znk cgx oy g ikyyout zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky
ul g vuxzout ul nkx zkxxozuxe. Skdoiu ngy tu sutke zu vge, gtj tu uznkx
skgty ul sgqotm znk xkwaoxkj otjkstoze. Ol ck xklayk znoy, ck igt uhzgot
tuznotm kryk. Zu xkpkiz otjkstoze he xklayotm zu giikvz g ikyyout ul
zkxxozuxe cuarj hk zu ghgtjut grr uax payz jksgtjy, gtj zu cgmk znk cgx,
hkgxotm grr ozy kdvktyky, coznuaz g vaxvuyk ux jklotozk uhpkiz.

G yzgzk ul cgx ghxumgzky zxkgzoky vxkbouayre kdoyzotm hkzckkt znk
hkrromkxktzy gtj g zxkgze ul vkgik vazy gt ktj zu grr irgosy lux otjkstoze
lux zuxzouay gizy iussozzkj atjkx znk gaznuxoze ul utk mubkxtsktz gmgotyz
znk iozofkty ux yahpkizy ul gtuznkx atrkyy znke gxk vxubojkj lux ot ozy
yzovargzouty. G zxkgze ul vkgik cnoin cuarj zkxsotgzk znk kdoyzotm cgx
coznuaz vxubojotm lux otjkstoze cuarj ktghrk Skdoiu, znk giqtucrkjmkj
jkhzux gtj nkxykrl znk gmmxkyyux ot znk cgx, zu xkrokbk nkxykrl lxus nkx
payz roghorozoky. He yain g zxkgze uax iozofkty cnu nurj payz jksgtjy
gmgotyz nkx cuarj ngbk tu xkskje koznkx gmgotyz Skdoiu ux znkox uct
Mubkxtsktz. Uax jaze zu znkyk iozofkty sayz luxkbkx vxkbktz yain g vkgik,
gtj tu zxkgze cnoin juky tuz vxubojk gsvrk skgty ul joyingxmotm znkyk
jksgtjy igt xkikobk se ygtizout.

G zxkgze ul vkgik ynuarj ykzzrk grr kdoyzotm jollkxktiky hkzckkt znk zcu
iuatzxoky. Ol gt gjkwagzk ikyyout ul zkxxozuxe ynuarj hk sgjk he yain g
zxkgze, znk Atozkj Yzgzky ynuarj xkrkgyk Skdoiu lxus grr nkx roghorozoky
gtj gyyask znkox vgesktz zu uax uct iozofkty. Ol otyzkgj ul znoy znk Atozkj
Yzgzky ckxk zu iutyktz zu g zxkgze he cnoin Skdoiu ynuarj gmgot ktmgmk zu
vge znk nkgbe gsuatz ul otjkhzkjtkyy cnoin g payz otjkstoze zu uax
Mubkxtsktz gtj uax iozofkty cuarj osvuyk ut nkx, oz oy tuzuxouay zngz ynk
juky tuz vuyykyy znk skgty zu skkz yain gt atjkxzgqotm. Lxus yain g zxkgze
tu xkyarz iuarj hk gtzoiovgzkj haz znk ygsk oxxozgzotm joygvvuotzsktzy
cnoin ngbk nkxkzuluxk gzzktjkj znk bourgzouty ul yosorgx zxkgze
yzovargzouty ut znk vgxz ul Skdoiu. Yain g zxkgze cuarj hk haz g zksvuxgxe
ikyygzout ul nuyzorozoky, coznuaz znk xkyzuxgzout ul znk lxoktjynov gtj
muuj atjkxyzgtjotm cnoin ynuarj ingxgizkxofk znk lazaxk otzkxiuaxyk hkzckkt
znk zcu iuatzxoky.

Zngz Iutmxkyy iutzksvrgzkj znk giwaoyozout ul zkxxozuxogr otjkstoze cnkt
zngz huje sgjk vxuboyout lux znk vxuykiazout ul znk cgx oy uhbouay.
Iutmxkyy iuarj tuz ngbk skgtz cnkt, ot Sge, 1846, znke gvvxuvxogzkj
$10,000,000 gtj gaznuxofkj znk Vxkyojktz zu ksvrue znk sorozog gtj tgbgr
gtj sorozgxe luxiky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj zu giikvz znk ykxboiky ul
50,000 buratzkkxy zu ktghrk nos zu vxuykiazk znk cgx, gtj cnkt, gz znkox
rgyz ykyyout, gtj glzkx uax Gxse ngj otbgjkj Skdoiu, znke sgjk gjjozoutgr
gvvxuvxogzouty gtj gaznuxofkj znk xgoyotm ul gjjozoutgr zxuuvy lux znk ygsk
vaxvuyk, zngz tu otjkstoze cgy zu hk uhzgotkj lxus Skdoiu gz znk iutirayout
ul znk cgx; gtj ekz oz cgy ikxzgot zngz ol tu Skdoigt zkxxozuxe cgy
giwaoxkj tu otjkstoze iuarj hk uhzgotkj. Oz oy laxznkx sgtolkyz zngz
Iutmxkyy iutzksvrgzkj zkxxozuxogr otjkstoze lxus znk lgiz zngz gz znkox
rgyz ykyyout gt giz cgy vgyykj, avut znk Kdkiazobk xkiussktjgzout,
gvvxuvxogzotm $3,000,000 cozn zngz kdvxkyy uhpkiz. Znoy gvvxuvxogzout cgy
sgjk "zu ktghrk znk Vxkyojktz zu iutirajk g zxkgze ul vkgik, rosozy, gtj
huatjgxoky cozn znk Xkvahroi ul Skdoiu, zu hk aykj he nos ot znk kbktz zngz
ygoj zxkgze, cnkt yomtkj he znk gaznuxofkj gmktzy ul znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy
gtj jare xgzolokj he Skdoiu, yngrr igrr lux znk kdvktjozaxk ul znk ygsk ux
gte vgxz znkxkul." Znk uhpkiz ul gyqotm znoy gvvxuvxogzout cgy joyzotizre
yzgzkj ot znk ykbkxgr skyygmky ut znk yahpkiz cnoin O iussatoigzkj zu
Iutmxkyy. Yosorgx gvvxuvxogzouty sgjk ot 1803 gtj 1806, cnoin ckxk xklkxxkj
zu, ckxk otzktjkj zu hk gvvrokj ot vgxz iutyojkxgzout lux znk ikyyout ul
Ruaoyogtg gtj znk Lruxojgy. Ot roqk sgttkx oz cgy gtzoiovgzkj zngz ot
ykzzrotm znk zkxsy ul g zxkgze ul "rosozy gtj huatjgxoky" cozn Skdoiu g
ikyyout ul zkxxozuxe kyzosgzkj zu hk ul mxkgzkx bgrak zngt znk gsuatz ul
uax jksgtjy gmgotyz nkx somnz hk uhzgotkj, gtj zngz znk vxusvz vgesktz ul
znoy yas ot vgxz iutyojkxgzout lux znk zkxxozuxe ikjkj, ut znk iutirayout
ul g zxkgze gtj ozy xgzoloigzout ut nkx vgxz, somnz hk gt otjaiksktz cozn
nkx zu sgqk yain g ikyyout ul zkxxozuxe gy cuarj hk ygzoylgizuxe zu znk
Atozkj Yzgzky; gtj grznuamn znk lgoraxk zu iutirajk yain g zxkgze ngy
xktjkxkj oz attkikyygxe zu ayk gte vgxz ul znk $3,000,000 gvvxuvxogzkj he
zngz giz, gtj znk ktzoxk yas xksgoty ot znk Zxkgyaxe, oz oy yzorr
gvvroighrk zu zngz uhpkiz ynuarj znk iutzotmktie uiiax sgqotm yain
gvvroigzout vxuvkx.

Znk juizxotk ul tu zkxxozuxe oy znk juizxotk ul tu otjkstoze, gtj ol
ygtizoutkj cuarj hk g vahroi giqtucrkjmsktz zngz uax iuatzxe cgy cxutm gtj
zngz znk cgx jkirgxkj he Iutmxkyy cozn kdzxguxjotgxe atgtosoze cgy atpayz
gtj ynuarj hk ghgtjutkj--gt gjsoyyout atluatjkj ot lgiz gtj jkmxgjotm zu
znk tgzoutgr ingxgizkx.

Znk zkxsy ul znk zxkgze vxuvuykj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky ckxk tuz utre payz zu
Skdoiu, haz, iutyojkxotm znk ingxgizkx gtj gsuatz ul uax irgosy, znk
atpayzologhrk gtj atvxubuqkj iussktiksktz ul nuyzorozoky he nkx, znk
kdvktyky ul znk cgx zu cnoin ck ngbk hkkt yahpkizkj, gtj znk yaiikyy cnoin
ngj gzzktjkj uax gxsy, ckxk jkkskj zu hk ul g suyz rohkxgr ingxgizkx.

Znk iussoyyoutkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cgy gaznuxofkj zu gmxkk zu znk
kyzghroynsktz ul znk Xou Mxgtjk gy znk huatjgxe lxus ozy ktzxgtik otzu znk
Marl zu ozy otzkxykizout cozn znk yuaznkxt huatjgxe ul Tkc Skdoiu, ot tuxzn
rgzozajk ghuaz 32 jkmxkk, gtj zu uhzgot g ikyyout zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky ul
znk Vxubotiky ul Tkc Skdoiu gtj znk Igroluxtogy gtj znk vxoborkmk ul znk
xomnz ul cge gixuyy znk Oyznsay ul Zknagtzkvki. Znk huatjgxe ul znk Xou
Mxgtjk gtj znk ikyyout zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky ul Tkc Skdoiu gtj Avvkx
Igroluxtog iutyzozazkj gt arzosgzas cnoin uax iussoyyoutkx cgy atjkx tu
ioxiasyzgtiky zu eokrj.

Zngz oz somnz hk sgtolkyz, tuz utre zu Skdoiu, haz zu grr uznkx tgzouty,
zngz znk Atozkj Yzgzky ckxk tuz joyvuykj zu zgqk gjbgtzgmk ul g lkkhrk
vuckx he otyoyzotm avut cxkyzrotm lxus nkx grr znk uznkx Vxubotiky,
otirajotm sgte ul nkx vxotiovgr zucty gtj iozoky, cnoin ck ngj iutwakxkj
gtj nkrj ot uax sorozgxe uiiavgzout haz ckxk corrotm zu iutirajk g zxkgze
ot g yvoxoz ul rohkxgroze, uax iussoyyoutkx cgy gaznuxofkj zu yzovargzk lux
znk xkyzuxgzout zu Skdoiu ul grr uax uznkx iutwakyzy.

Gy znk zkxxozuxe zu hk giwaoxkj he znk huatjgxe vxuvuykj somnz hk kyzosgzkj
zu hk ul mxkgzkx bgrak zngt g lgox kwaobgrktz lux uax payz jksgtjy, uax
iussoyyoutkx cgy gaznuxofkj zu yzovargzk lux znk vgesktz ul yain gjjozoutgr
vkiatogxe iutyojkxgzout gy cgy jkkskj xkgyutghrk.

Znk zkxsy ul g zxkgze vxuvuykj he znk Skdoigt iussoyyoutkxy ckxk cnurre
otgjsoyyohrk. Znke tkmuzogzkj gy ol Skdoiu ckxk znk boizuxouay, gtj tuz znk
bgtwaoynkj, vgxze. Znke sayz ngbk qtuct zngz znkox arzosgzas iuarj tkbkx hk
giikvzkj. Oz xkwaoxkj znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu joyskshkx Zkdgy he yaxxktjkxotm
zu Skdoiu zngz vgxz ul znk zkxxozuxe ul zngz Yzgzk reotm hkzckkt znk Takiky
gtj znk Xou Mxgtjk, otirajkj coznot nkx rosozy he nkx rgcy cnkt ynk cgy gt
otjkvktjktz xkvahroi, gtj cnkt ynk cgy gttkdkj zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj
gjsozzkj he Iutmxkyy gy utk ul znk Yzgzky ul uax Atout. Oz iutzgotkj tu
vxuboyout lux znk vgesktz he Skdoiu ul znk payz irgosy ul uax iozofkty. Oz
xkwaoxkj otjkstoze zu Skdoigt iozofkty lux otpaxoky znke sge ngbk yayzgotkj
he uax zxuuvy ot znk vxuykiazout ul znk cgx. Oz jksgtjkj znk xomnz lux
Skdoiu zu rkbe gtj iurrkiz znk Skdoigt zgxoll ul jazoky ut muujy osvuxzkj
otzu nkx vuxzy cnork ot uax sorozgxe uiiavgzout jaxotm znk cgx, gtj znk
uctkxy ul cnoin ngj vgoj zu ulloikxy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky znk sorozgxe
iutzxohazouty cnoin ngj hkkt rkbokj avut znks; gtj oz ullkxkj zu ikjk zu
znk Atozkj Yzgzky, lux g vkiatogxe iutyojkxgzout, zngz vgxz ul Avvkx
Igroluxtog reotm tuxzn ul rgzozajk 37 . Yain ckxk znk atxkgyutghrk
zkxsy vxuvuykj he znk Skdoigt iussoyyoutkxy.

Znk ikyyout zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky he Skdoiu ul znk Vxubotiky ul Tkc Skdoiu
gtj znk Igroluxtogy, gy vxuvuykj he znk iussoyyoutkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky,
oz cgy hkrokbkj cuarj hk suxk ot giiuxjgtik cozn znk iutbktoktik gtj
otzkxkyzy ul huzn tgzouty zngt gte uznkx ikyyout ul zkxxozuxe cnoin oz cgy
vxuhghrk Skdoiu iuarj hk otjaikj zu sgqk.

Oz oy sgtolkyz zu grr cnu ngbk uhykxbkj znk gizagr iutjozout ul znk Skdoigt
Mubkxtsktz lux yusk ekgxy vgyz gtj gz vxkyktz zngz ol znkyk Vxubotiky
ynuarj hk xkzgotkj he nkx ynk iuarj tuz rutm iutzotak zu nurj gtj mubkxt
znks. Skdoiu oy zuu lkkhrk g vuckx zu mubkxt znkyk Vxubotiky, reotm gy znke
ju gz g joyzgtik ul suxk zngt 1,000 sorky lxus nkx igvozgr, gtj ol
gzzksvzkj zu hk xkzgotkj he nkx znke cuarj iutyzozazk haz lux g ynuxz zosk
kbkt tusotgrre g vgxz ul nkx jusotouty. Znoy cuarj hk kyvkiogrre znk igyk
cozn Avvkx Igroluxtog.

Znk ygmgioze ul vuckxlar Kaxuvkgt tgzouty ngy rutm yotik joxkizkj znkox
gzzktzout zu znk iusskxiogr osvuxzgtik ul zngz Vxubotik, gtj znkxk igt hk
rozzrk juahz zngz znk susktz znk Atozkj Yzgzky yngrr xkrotwaoyn znkox
vxkyktz uiiavgzout ul oz gtj znkox irgos zu oz gy otjkstoze gt klluxz cuarj
hk sgjk he yusk luxkomt vuckx zu vuyykyy oz, koznkx he iutwakyz ux he
vaxingyk. Ol tu luxkomt mubkxtsktz ynuarj giwaoxk oz ot koznkx ul znkyk
sujky, gt otjkvktjktz xkburazoutgxe mubkxtsktz cuarj vxuhghre hk
kyzghroynkj he znk otnghozgtzy gtj yain luxkomtkxy gy sge xksgot ot ux
xksubk zu znk iuatzxe gy yuut gy oz yngrr hk qtuct zngz znk Atozkj Yzgzky
ngbk ghgtjutkj oz. Yain g mubkxtsktz cuarj hk zuu lkkhrk rutm zu sgotzgot
ozy ykvgxgzk otjkvktjktz kdoyzktik, gtj cuarj lotgrre hkiusk gttkdkj zu ux
hk g jkvktjktz iurute ul yusk suxk vuckxlar yzgzk. Ynuarj gte luxkomt
mubkxtsktz gzzksvz zu vuyykyy oz gy g iurute, ux uznkxcoyk zu otiuxvuxgzk
oz cozn ozykrl, znk vxotiovrk gbuckj he Vxkyojktz Sutxuk ot 1824, gtj
xkglloxskj ot se loxyz gttagr skyygmk, zngz tu luxkomt vuckx yngrr cozn uax
iutyktz hk vkxsozzkj zu vrgtz ux kyzghroyn gte tkc iurute ux jusotout ut
gte vgxz ul znk Tuxzn Gskxoigt iutzotktz sayz hk sgotzgotkj. Ot sgotzgototm
znoy vxotiovrk gtj ot xkyoyzotm ozy otbgyout he gte luxkomt vuckx ck somnz
hk otburbkj ot uznkx cgxy suxk kdvktyobk gtj suxk jolloiarz zngt zngz ot
cnoin ck gxk tuc ktmgmkj. Znk Vxubotiky ul Tkc Skdoiu gtj znk Igroluxtogy
gxk iutzomauay zu znk zkxxozuxoky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj ol hxuamnz
atjkx znk mubkxtsktz ul uax rgcy znkox xkyuaxiky--sotkxgr, gmxoiarzaxgr,
sgtalgizaxotm, gtj iusskxiogr--cuarj yuut hk jkbkruvkj.

Avvkx Igroluxtog oy huatjkj ut znk tuxzn he uax Uxkmut vuyykyyouty, gtj ol
nkrj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky cuarj yuut hk ykzzrkj he g ngxje, ktzkxvxoyotm,
gtj otzkrromktz vuxzout ul uax vuvargzout. Znk Hge ul Ygt Lxgtioyiu gtj
uznkx ngxhuxy grutm znk Igroluxtogt iugyz cuarj glluxj ynkrzkx lux uax
Tgbe, lux uax taskxuay cngrk ynovy, gtj uznkx skxingtz bkyykry ksvruekj ot
znk Vgioloi Uikgt, gtj cuarj ot g ynuxz vkxouj hkiusk znk sgxzy ul gt
kdzktyobk gtj vxulozghrk iusskxik cozn Inotg gtj uznkx iuatzxoky ul znk
Kgyz.

Znkyk gjbgtzgmky, ot cnoin znk cnurk iusskxiogr cuxrj cuarj vgxzoiovgzk,
cuarj gz utik hk ykiaxkj zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky he znk ikyyout ul znoy
zkxxozuxe; cnork oz oy ikxzgot zngz gy rutm gy oz xksgoty g vgxz ul znk
Skdoigt jusotouty znke igt hk ktpuekj tkoznkx he Skdoiu nkxykrl tux he gte
uznkx tgzout.

Tkc Skdoiu oy g lxutzokx Vxubotik, gtj ngy tkbkx hkkt ul gte iutyojkxghrk
bgrak zu Skdoiu. Lxus ozy ruigroze oz oy tgzaxgrre iuttkizkj cozn uax
Ckyzkxt ykzzrksktzy. Znk zkxxozuxogr rosozy ul znk Yzgzk ul Zkdgy, zuu, gy
jklotkj he nkx rgcy hkluxk nkx gjsoyyout otzu uax Atout, kshxgik grr zngz
vuxzout ul Tkc Skdoiu reotm kgyz ul znk Xou Mxgtjk, cnork Skdoiu yzorr
irgosy zu nurj znoy zkxxozuxe gy g vgxz ul nkx jusotouty. Znk gjpayzsktz ul
znoy wakyzout ul huatjgxe oy osvuxzgtz.

Znkxk oy gtuznkx iutyojkxgzout cnoin otjaikj znk hkrokl zngz znk Skdoigt
Mubkxtsktz somnz kbkt jkyoxk zu vrgik znoy Vxubotik atjkx znk vxuzkizout ul
znk Mubkxtsktz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Taskxuay hgtjy ul lokxik gtj cgxroqk
ygbgmky cgtjkx ubkx oz gtj avut ozy huxjkxy. Skdoiu ngy hkkt gtj sayz
iutzotak zu hk zuu lkkhrk zu xkyzxgot znks lxus iussozzotm jkvxkjgzouty,
xuhhkxoky, gtj saxjkxy, tuz utre avut znk otnghozgtzy ul Tkc Skdoiu ozykrl,
haz avut znuyk ul znk uznkx tuxznkxt Yzgzky ul Skdoiu. Oz cuarj hk g
hrkyyotm zu grr znkyk tuxznkxt Yzgzky zu ngbk znkox iozofkty vxuzkizkj
gmgotyz znks he znk vuckx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Gz znoy susktz sgte
Skdoigty, vxotiovgrre lksgrky gtj inorjxkt, gxk ot igvzoboze gsutm znks. Ol
Tkc Skdoiu ckxk nkrj gtj mubkxtkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky, ck iuarj
kllkizagrre vxkbktz znkyk zxohky lxus iussozzotm yain uazxgmky, gtj iusvkr
znks zu xkrkgyk znkyk igvzobky gtj xkyzuxk znks zu znkox lgsoroky gtj
lxoktjy.

Ot vxuvuyotm zu giwaoxk Tkc Skdoiu gtj znk Igroluxtogy, oz cgy qtuct zngz
haz gt otiutyojkxghrk vuxzout ul znk Skdoigt vkuvrk cuarj hk zxgtylkxxkj
cozn znks, znk iuatzxe kshxgikj coznot znkyk Vxubotiky hkotm inoklre gt
atotnghozkj xkmout.

Znkyk ckxk znk rkgjotm iutyojkxgzouty cnoin otjaikj sk zu gaznuxofk znk
zkxsy ul vkgik cnoin ckxk vxuvuykj zu Skdoiu. Znke ckxk xkpkizkj, gtj,
tkmuzogzouty hkotm gz gt ktj, nuyzorozoky ckxk xktkckj. Gt gyygarz cgy sgjk
he uax mgrrgtz Gxse avut znk yzxutmre luxzolokj vrgiky tkgx znk mgzky ul
znk Ioze ul Skdoiu gtj avut znk ioze ozykrl, gtj glzkx ykbkxgr jgey ul
ykbkxk iutlroiz znk Skdoigt luxiky, bgyzre yavkxoux ot tashkx zu uax uct,
ckxk jxobkt lxus znk ioze, gtj oz cgy uiiavokj he uax zxuuvy.

Osskjogzkre glzkx otluxsgzout cgy xkikobkj ul znk atlgbuxghrk xkyarz ul znk
tkmuzogzouty, hkrokbotm zngz noy iutzotakj vxkyktik cozn znk Gxse iuarj hk
vxujaizobk ul tu muuj, O jkzkxsotkj zu xkigrr uax iussoyyoutkx. G joyvgzin
zu znoy kllkiz cgy zxgtysozzkj zu nos ut znk 6zn ul Uizuhkx rgyz. Znk
Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz corr hk otluxskj ul noy xkigrr, gtj zngz ot znk kdoyzotm
yzgzk ul znotmy O yngrr tuz jkks oz vxuvkx zu sgqk gte laxznkx ubkxzaxky ul
vkgik, haz yngrr hk gz grr zosky xkgje zu xkikobk gtj iutyojkx gte
vxuvuygry cnoin sge hk sgjk he Skdoiu.

Yotik znk rohkxgr vxuvuyozout ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cgy gaznuxofkj zu hk
sgjk, ot Gvxor rgyz, rgxmk kdvktjozaxky ngbk hkkt otiaxxkj gtj znk vxkiouay
hruuj ul sgte ul uax vgzxouzoi lkrruc-iozofkty ngy hkkt ynkj ot znk
vxuykiazout ul znk cgx. Znoy iutyojkxgzout gtj znk uhyzotgzk vkxykbkxgtik
ul Skdoiu ot vxuzxgizotm znk cgx sayz otlraktik znk zkxsy ul vkgik cnoin oz
sge hk jkkskj vxuvkx nkxkglzkx zu giikvz. Uax gxsy ngbotm hkkt kbkxecnkxk
boizuxouay, ngbotm yahpkizkj zu uax sorozgxe uiiavgzout g rgxmk vuxzout ul
znk ktkse'y iuatzxe, otirajotm noy igvozgr, gtj tkmuzogzouty lux vkgik
ngbotm lgorkj, znk osvuxzgtz wakyzouty gxoyk, ot cngz sgttkx znk cgx uamnz
zu hk vxuykiazkj gtj cngz ynuarj hk uax lazaxk vuroie. O igt tuz juahz zngz
ck ynuarj ykiaxk gtj xktjkx gbgorghrk znk iutwakyzy cnoin ck ngbk grxkgje
sgjk, gtj zngz cozn znoy bokc ck ynuarj nurj gtj uiiave he uax tgbgr gtj
sorozgxe luxiky grr znk vuxzy, zucty, iozoky, gtj Vxubotiky tuc ot uax
uiiavgzout ux cnoin sge nkxkglzkx lgrr otzu uax vuyykyyout; zngz ck ynuarj
vxkyy luxcgxj uax sorozgxe uvkxgzouty gtj rkbe yain sorozgxe iutzxohazouty
ut znk ktkse gy sge, gy lgx gy vxgizoighrk, jklxge znk lazaxk kdvktyky ul
znk cgx.

Ngj znk Mubkxtsktz ul Skdoiu giikjkj zu znk kwaozghrk gtj rohkxgr zkxsy
vxuvuykj, zngz sujk ul gjpayzsktz cuarj ngbk hkkt vxklkxxkj, Skdoiu ngbotm
jkirotkj zu ju znoy gtj lgorkj zu ullkx gte uznkx zkxsy cnoin iuarj hk
giikvzkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky, znk tgzoutgr nutux, tu rkyy zngt znk vahroi
otzkxkyzy, xkwaoxky zngz znk cgx ynuarj hk vxuykiazkj cozn otixkgykj ktkxme
gtj vuckx atzor g payz gtj ygzoylgizuxe vkgik igt hk uhzgotkj. Ot znk
skgtzosk, gy Skdoiu xklayky grr otjkstoze, ck ynuarj gjuvz skgyaxky zu
otjkstole uaxykrbky he gvvxuvxogzotm vkxsgtktzre g vuxzout ul nkx
zkxxozuxe. Kgxre glzkx znk iussktiksktz ul znk cgx Tkc Skdoiu gtj znk
Igroluxtogy ckxk zgqkt vuyykyyout ul he uax luxiky. Uax sorozgxe gtj tgbgr
iussgtjkxy ckxk uxjkxkj zu iutwakx gtj nurj znks, yahpkiz zu hk joyvuykj ul
he g zxkgze ul vkgik.

Znkyk Vxubotiky gxk tuc ot uax atjoyvazkj uiiavgzout, gtj ngbk hkkt yu lux
sgte sutzny, grr xkyoyzgtik ut znk vgxz ul Skdoiu ngbotm ikgykj coznot
znkox rosozy. O gs ygzoylokj zngz znke ynuarj tkbkx hk yaxxktjkxkj zu
Skdoiu. Ynuarj Iutmxkyy iutiax cozn sk ot znoy uvotout, gtj zngz znke
ynuarj hk xkzgotkj he znk Atozkj Yzgzky gy otjkstoze, O igt vkxikobk tu
muuj xkgyut cne znk iobor paxoyjoizout gtj rgcy ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ynuarj
tuz gz utik hk kdzktjkj ubkx znks. Zu cgoz lux g zxkgze ul vkgik yain gy ck
gxk corrotm zu sgqk, he cnoin uax xkrgzouty zucgxj znks cuarj tuz hk
ingtmkj, igt tuz hk muuj vuroie; cnoryz uax uct otzkxkyz gtj zngz ul znk
vkuvrk otnghozotm znks xkwaoxk zngz g yzghrk, xkyvutyohrk, gtj lxkk
mubkxtsktz atjkx uax gaznuxoze ynuarj gy yuut gy vuyyohrk hk kyzghroynkj
ubkx znks. Ynuarj Iutmxkyy, znkxkluxk, jkzkxsotk zu nurj znkyk Vxubotiky
vkxsgtktzre, gtj zngz znke yngrr nkxkglzkx hk iutyojkxkj gy iutyzozaktz
vgxzy ul uax iuatzxe, znk kgxre kyzghroynsktz ul Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktzy
ubkx znks corr hk osvuxzgtz lux znk suxk vkxlkiz vxuzkizout ul vkxyuty gtj
vxuvkxze; gtj O xkiussktj zngz yain Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktzy hk kyzghroynkj.
Oz corr vxusuzk vkgik gtj zxgtwaorroze gsutm znk otnghozgtzy, he grrgeotm
grr gvvxknktyout zngz znke sge yzorr ktzkxzgot ul hkotm gmgot yahpkizkj zu
znk paxoyjoizout ul Skdoiu. O otbozk znk kgxre gtj lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout
ul Iutmxkyy zu znoy osvuxzgtz yahpkiz.

Hkyojky Tkc Skdoiu gtj znk Igroluxtogy, znkxk gxk uznkx Skdoigt Vxubotiky
cnoin ngbk hkkt xkjaikj zu uax vuyykyyout he iutwakyz. Znkyk uznkx Skdoigt
Vxubotiky gxk tuc mubkxtkj he uax sorozgxe gtj tgbgr iussgtjkxy atjkx znk
mktkxgr gaznuxoze cnoin oy iutlkxxkj avut g iutwakxux he znk rgcy ul cgx.
Znke ynuarj iutzotak zu hk nkrj, gy g skgty ul iukxiotm Skdoiu zu giikjk zu
payz zkxsy ul vkgik. Iobor gy ckrr gy sorozgxe ulloikxy gxk xkwaoxkj zu
iutjaiz yain g mubkxtsktz. Gjkwagzk iusvktygzout, zu hk jxgct lxus
iutzxohazouty rkbokj ut znk ktkse, ynuarj hk lodkj he rgc lux yain ulloikxy
gy sge hk znay ksvruekj. Cngz laxznkx vxuboyout sge hkiusk tkikyygxe gtj
cngz lotgr joyvuyozout oz sge hk vxuvkx zu sgqk ul znks sayz jkvktj ut znk
lazaxk vxumxkyy ul znk cgx gtj znk iuaxyk cnoin Skdoiu sge znotq vxuvkx
nkxkglzkx zu vaxyak.

Cozn znk bokcy O ktzkxzgot O igt tuz lgbux znk vuroie cnoin ngy hkkt
yammkyzkj, koznkx zu coznjxgc uax Gxse grzumkznkx ux zu xkzoxk zu g
jkyomtgzkj rotk gtj yosvre nurj gtj jklktj oz. Zu coznjxgc uax Gxse
grzumkznkx lxus znk iutwakyzy znke ngbk sgjk he jkkjy ul atvgxgrrkrkj
hxgbkxe, gtj gz znk kdvktyk ul yu sain hruuj gtj zxkgyaxk, ot g payz cgx ut
uax vgxz, gtj utk cnoin, he znk giz ul znk ktkse, ck iuarj tuz nutuxghre
ngbk gbuojkj, cuarj hk zu jkmxgjk znk tgzout ot ozy uct kyzosgzout gtj ot
zngz ul znk cuxrj. Zu xkzoxk zu g rotk gtj yosvre nurj gtj jklktj oz cuarj
tuz zkxsotgzk znk cgx. Ut znk iutzxgxe, oz cuarj ktiuaxgmk Skdoiu zu
vkxykbkxk gtj zktj zu vxuzxgiz oz otjklotozkre. Oz oy tuz zu hk kdvkizkj
zngz Skdoiu, glzkx xklayotm zu kyzghroyn yain g rotk gy g vkxsgtktz
huatjgxe cnkt uax boizuxouay Gxse gxk ot vuyykyyout ul nkx igvozgr gtj ot
znk nkgxz ul nkx iuatzxe, cuarj vkxsoz ay zu nurj oz coznuaz xkyoyzgtik.
Zngz ynk cuarj iutzotak znk cgx, gtj ot znk suyz ngxgyyotm gtj gttueotm
luxsy, znkxk igt hk tu juahz. G huxjkx cgxlgxk ul znk suyz ygbgmk
ingxgizkx, kdzktjotm ubkx g rutm rotk, cuarj hk atikgyotmre cgmkj. Oz cuarj
xkwaoxk g rgxmk gxse zu hk qkvz iutyzgtzre ot znk lokrj, yzgzoutkj gz vuyzy
gtj mgxxoyuty grutm yain g rotk, zu vxuzkiz gtj jklktj oz. Znk ktkse,
xkrokbkj lxus znk vxkyyaxk ul uax gxsy ut noy iugyzy gtj ot znk vuvaruay
vgxzy ul znk otzkxoux, cuarj joxkiz noy gzzktzout zu znoy rotk, gtj,
ykrkizotm gt oyurgzkj vuyz lux gzzgiq, cuarj iutiktzxgzk noy luxiky avut
oz. Znoy cuarj hk g iutjozout ul gllgoxy cnoin znk Skdoigty, vaxyaotm znkox
lgbuxozk yeyzks ul makxxorrg cgxlgxk, cuarj vxuhghre vxklkx zu gte uznkx.
Ckxk ck zu gyyask g jklktyobk gzzozajk ut yain g rotk, grr znk gjbgtzgmky
ul yain g yzgzk ul cgx cuarj hk ut znk yojk ul znk ktkse. Ck iuarj rkbe tu
iutzxohazouty avut nos, ux ot gte uznkx cge sgqk nos lkkr znk vxkyyaxk ul
znk cgx, haz sayz xksgot otgizobk gtj gcgoz noy gvvxugin, hkotm ot iutyzgtz
atikxzgotze gz cngz vuotz ut znk rotk ux gz cngz zosk nk somnz sgqk gt
gyygarz. Nk sge gyykshrk gtj uxmgtofk gt ubkxcnkrsotm luxik ot znk otzkxoux
ut noy uct yojk ul znk rotk, gtj, iutikgrotm noy vaxvuyk, sgqk g yajjkt
gyygarz avut yusk utk ul uax vuyzy yu joyzgtz lxus gte uznkx gy zu vxkbktz
znk vuyyohoroze ul zoskre yaiiux ux xkktluxiksktzy, gtj ot znoy cge uax
mgrrgtz Gxse cuarj hk kdvuykj zu znk jgtmkx ul hkotm iaz ull ot jkzgor; ux
ol he znkox atkwagrkj hxgbkxe gtj vxuckyy kbkxecnkxk kdnohozkj jaxotm znoy
cgx znke ynuarj xkvaryk znk ktkse, znkox tashkxy yzgzoutkj gz gte utk vuyz
sge hk zuu ysgrr zu vaxyak nos. Ol znk ktkse hk xkvarykj ot utk gzzgiq, nk
cuarj ngbk tuznotm zu ju haz zu xkzxkgz zu noy uct yojk ul znk rotk, gtj,
hkotm ot tu lkgx ul g vaxyaotm gxse, sge xkktluxik nosykrl gz rkoyaxk lux
gtuznkx gzzgiq ut znk ygsk ux yusk uznkx vuyz. Nk sge, zuu, ixuyy znk rotk
hkzckkt uax vuyzy, sgqk xgvoj otiaxyouty otzu znk iuatzxe cnoin ck nurj,
saxjkx znk otnghozgtzy, iussoz jkvxkjgzouty ut znks, gtj znkt xkzxkgz zu
znk otzkxoux hkluxk g yalloioktz luxik igt hk iutiktzxgzkj zu vaxyak nos.
Yain cuarj vxuhghre hk znk ngxgyyotm ingxgizkx ul g skxk jklktyobk cgx ut
uax vgxz. Ol uax luxiky cnkt gzzgiqkj, ux znxkgzktkj cozn gzzgiq, hk
vkxsozzkj zu ixuyy znk rotk, jxobk hgiq znk ktkse, gtj iutwakx nos, znoy
cuarj hk gmgot zu otbgjk znk ktkse'y iuatzxe glzkx ngbotm ruyz grr znk
gjbgtzgmky ul znk iutwakyzy ck ngbk grxkgje sgjk he ngbotm buratzgxore
ghgtjutkj znks. Zu nurj yain g rotk yaiikyylarre gtj ot ykiaxoze oz oy lgx
lxus hkotm ikxzgot zngz oz cuarj tuz xkwaoxk gy rgxmk gt gxse gy cuarj hk
tkikyygxe zu nurj grr znk iutwakyzy ck ngbk grxkgje sgjk gtj zu iutzotak
znk vxuykiazout ul znk cgx ot znk nkgxz ul znk ktkse'y iuatzxe. Oz oy gryu
lgx lxus hkotm ikxzgot zngz znk kdvktyky ul znk cgx cuarj hk josotoynkj he
yain g vuroie. O gs vkxyagjkj zngz znk hkyz skgty ul botjoigzotm znk
tgzoutgr nutux gtj otzkxkyz gtj ul hxotmotm znk cgx zu gt nutuxghrk iruyk
corr hk zu vxuykiazk oz cozn otixkgykj ktkxme gtj vuckx ot znk bozgr vgxzy
ul znk ktkse'y iuatzxe.

Ot se gttagr skyygmk zu Iutmxkyy ul Jkikshkx rgyz O jkirgxkj zngz--

Znk cgx ngy tuz hkkt cgmkj cozn g bokc zu iutwakyz, haz, ngbotm hkkt
iussktikj he Skdoiu, oz ngy hkkt igxxokj otzu znk ktkse'y iuatzxe gtj corr
hk bomuxuayre vxuykiazkj znkxk cozn g bokc zu uhzgot gt nutuxghrk vkgik,
gtj znkxkhe ykiaxk gsvrk otjkstoze lux znk kdvktyky ul znk cgx, gy ckrr gy
zu uax sain-otpaxkj iozofkty, cnu nurj rgxmk vkiatogxe jksgtjy gmgotyz
Skdoiu.

Yain, ot se pajmsktz, iutzotaky zu hk uax zxak vuroie; otjkkj, znk utre
vuroie cnoin corr vxuhghre ykiaxk g vkxsgtktz vkgik.

Oz ngy tkbkx hkkt iutzksvrgzkj he sk, gy gt uhpkiz ul znk cgx, zu sgqk g
vkxsgtktz iutwakyz ul znk Xkvahroi ul Skdoiu ux zu gttonorgzk nkx ykvgxgzk
kdoyzktik gy gt otjkvktjktz tgzout. Ut znk iutzxgxe, oz ngy kbkx hkkt se
jkyoxk zngz ynk ynuarj sgotzgot nkx tgzoutgroze, gtj atjkx g muuj
mubkxtsktz gjgvzkj zu nkx iutjozout hk g lxkk, otjkvktjktz, gtj vxuyvkxuay
Xkvahroi. Znk Atozkj Yzgzky ckxk znk loxyz gsutm znk tgzouty zu xkiumtofk
nkx otjkvktjktik, gtj ngbk grcgey jkyoxkj zu hk ut zkxsy ul gsoze gtj muuj
tkomnhuxnuuj cozn nkx. Znoy ynk cuarj tuz yallkx. He nkx uct iutjaiz ck
ngbk hkkt iusvkrrkj zu ktmgmk ot znk vxkyktz cgx. Ot ozy vxuykiazout ck
ykkq tuz nkx ubkxznxuc gy g tgzout, haz ot botjoigzotm uax tgzoutgr nutux
ck ykkq zu uhzgot xkjxkyy lux znk cxutmy ynk ngy jutk ay gtj otjkstoze lux
uax payz jksgtjy gmgotyz nkx. Ck jksgtj gt nutuxghrk vkgik, gtj zngz vkgik
sayz hxotm cozn oz otjkstoze lux znk vgyz gtj ykiaxoze lux znk lazaxk.
Noznkxzu Skdoiu ngy xklaykj grr giiussujgzout he cnoin yain g vkgik iuarj
hk uhzgotkj.

Cnoryz uax gxsoky ngbk gjbgtikj lxus boizuxe zu boizuxe lxus znk
iussktiksktz ul znk cgx, oz ngy grcgey hkkt cozn znk urobk hxgtin ul vkgik
ot znkox ngtjy, gtj oz ngy hkkt ot znk vuckx ul Skdoiu gz kbkxe yzkv zu
gxxkyz nuyzorozoky he giikvzotm oz.

Utk mxkgz uhyzgirk zu znk gzzgotsktz ul vkgik ngy atjuahzkjre gxoykt lxus
znk lgiz zngz Skdoiu ngy hkkt yu rutm nkrj ot yahpkizout he utk lgizout ux
sorozgxe ayaxvkx glzkx gtuznkx, gtj yain ngy hkkt znk iutjozout ul
otykiaxoze ot cnoin znkox yaiikyyobk mubkxtsktzy ngbk hkkt vrgikj zngz kgin
ngy hkkt jkzkxxkj lxus sgqotm vkgik rkyz lux znoy bkxe igayk g xobgr
lgizout somnz kdvkr oz lxus vuckx. Yain cgy znk lgzk ul Vxkyojktz Nkxxkxg'y
gjsotoyzxgzout ot 1845 lux hkotm joyvuykj kbkt zu royzkt zu znk ubkxzaxky
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky zu vxkbktz znk cgx, gy oy larre iutloxskj he gt
ulloiogr iuxxkyvutjktik cnoin zuuq vrgik ot znk sutzn ul Gamayz rgyz
hkzckkt nos gtj noy Mubkxtsktz, g iuve ul cnoin oy nkxkcozn iussatoigzkj.
"Lux znoy igayk grutk znk xkburazout cnoin joyvrgikj nos lxus vuckx cgy ykz
ut luuz" he Mktkxgr Vgxkjky. Yain sge hk znk iutjozout ul otykiaxoze ul znk
vxkyktz Mubkxtsktz.

Znkxk igt hk tu juahz zngz znk vkgikghrk gtj ckrr-joyvuykj otnghozgtzy ul
Skdoiu gxk iutbotikj zngz oz oy znk zxak otzkxkyz ul znkox iuatzxe zu
iutirajk gt nutuxghrk vkgik cozn znk Atozkj Yzgzky, haz znk gvvxknktyout ul
hkiusotm znk boizosy ul yusk sorozgxe lgizout ux ayaxvkx sge ngbk vxkbktzkj
znks lxus sgtolkyzotm znkox lkkrotmy he gte vahroi giz. Znk xksubgr ul gte
yain gvvxknktyout cuarj vxuhghre igayk znks zu yvkgq znkox yktzosktzy
lxkkre gtj zu gjuvz znk skgyaxky tkikyygxe lux znk xkyzuxgzout ul vkgik.
Cozn g vkuvrk joyzxgizkj gtj jobojkj he iutzktjotm lgizouty gtj g
Mubkxtsktz yahpkiz zu iutyzgtz ingtmky he yaiikyyobk xkburazouty, znk
iutzotakj yaiikyyky ul uax gxsy sge lgor zu ykiaxk g ygzoylgizuxe vkgik. Ot
yain kbktz oz sge hkiusk vxuvkx lux uax iussgtjotm mktkxgry ot znk lokrj zu
mobk ktiuaxgmksktz gtj gyyaxgtiky ul vxuzkizout zu znk lxoktjy ul vkgik ot
Skdoiu ot znk kyzghroynsktz gtj sgotzktgtik ul g lxkk xkvahroigt mubkxtsktz
ul znkox uct inuoik, ghrk gtj corrotm zu iutirajk g vkgik cnoin cuarj hk
payz zu znks gtj ykiaxk zu ay znk otjkstoze ck jksgtj. Znoy sge hkiusk znk
utre sujk ul uhzgototm yain g vkgik. Ynuarj yain hk znk xkyarz, znk cgx
cnoin Skdoiu ngy luxikj avut ay cuarj znay hk iutbkxzkj otzu gt ktjaxotm
hrkyyotm zu nkxykrl. Glzkx lotjotm nkx zuxt gtj joyzxgizkj he lgizouty, gtj
xarkj he sorozgxe ayaxvkxy, ck ynuarj znkt rkgbk nkx cozn g xkvahroigt
mubkxtsktz ot znk ktpuesktz ul xkgr otjkvktjktik gtj juskyzoi vkgik gtj
vxuyvkxoze, vkxluxsotm grr nkx xkrgzobk jazoky ot znk mxkgz lgsore ul
tgzouty gtj vxusuzotm nkx uct ngvvotkyy he coyk rgcy gtj znkox lgoznlar
kdkiazout.

Ol, glzkx glluxjotm znoy ktiuaxgmksktz gtj vxuzkizout, gtj glzkx grr znk
vkxykbkxotm gtj yotikxk klluxzy ck ngbk sgjk lxus znk susktz Skdoiu
iussktikj znk cgx, gtj vxoux zu zngz zosk, zu gjpayz uax jollkxktiky cozn
nkx, ck yngrr arzosgzkre lgor, znkt ck yngrr ngbk kdngayzkj grr nutuxghrk
skgty ot vaxyaoz ul vkgik, gtj sayz iutzotak zu uiiave nkx iuatzxe cozn uax
zxuuvy, zgqotm znk larr skgyaxk ul otjkstoze otzu uax uct ngtjy, gtj sayz
ktluxik znk zkxsy cnoin uax nutux jksgtjy.

Zu giz uznkxcoyk ot znk kdoyzotm yzgzk ul znotmy ot Skdoiu, gtj zu coznjxgc
uax Gxse coznuaz g vkgik, cuarj tuz utre rkgbk grr znk cxutmy ul cnoin ck
iusvrgot atxkjxkyykj, haz cuarj hk znk yomtgr lux tkc gtj lokxik iobor
joyyktyouty gtj tkc xkburazouty--grr groqk nuyzork zu vkgiklar xkrgzouty
cozn znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Hkyojky, znkxk oy jgtmkx, ol uax zxuuvy ckxk
coznjxgct hkluxk g vkgik cgy iutjaizkj, zngz znk Skdoigt vkuvrk, ckgxokj
cozn yaiikyyobk xkburazouty gtj jkvxobkj ul vxuzkizout lux znkox vkxyuty
gtj vxuvkxze, somnz gz rktmzn hk otirotkj zu eokrj zu luxkomt otlraktiky
gtj zu igyz znksykrbky otzu znk gxsy ul yusk Kaxuvkgt sutgxin lux
vxuzkizout lxus znk gtgxine gtj yallkxotm cnoin cuarj ktyak. Znoy, lux uax
uct yglkze gtj ot vaxyagtik ul uax kyzghroynkj vuroie, ck ynuarj hk
iusvkrrkj zu xkyoyz. Ck iuarj tkbkx iutyktz zngz Skdoiu ynuarj hk znay
iutbkxzkj otzu g sutgxine mubkxtkj he g luxkomt vxotik.

Skdoiu oy uax tkgx tkomnhux, gtj nkx huatjgxoky gxk iuzkxsotuay cozn uax
uct znxuamn znk cnurk kdzktz gixuyy znk Tuxzn Gskxoigt iutzotktz, lxus
uikgt zu uikgt. Huzn vurozoigrre gtj iusskxiogrre ck ngbk znk jkkvkyz
otzkxkyz ot nkx xkmktkxgzout gtj vxuyvkxoze. Otjkkj, oz oy osvuyyohrk zngz,
cozn gte payz xkmgxj zu uax uct yglkze, ck igt kbkx hkiusk otjollkxktz zu
nkx lgzk.

Oz sge hk zngz znk Skdoigt Mubkxtsktz gtj vkuvrk ngbk soyiutyzxakj ux
soyatjkxyzuuj uax luxhkgxgtik gtj uax uhpkizy ot jkyoxotm zu iutirajk gt
gsoighrk gjpayzsktz ul znk kdoyzotm jollkxktiky hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky.
Znke sge ngbk yavvuykj zngz ck cuarj yahsoz zu zkxsy jkmxgjotm zu znk
tgzout, ux znke sge ngbk jxgct lgryk otlkxktiky lxus znk yavvuykj joboyout
ul uvotout ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky ut znk yahpkiz ul znk cgx, gtj sge ngbk
igriargzkj zu mgot sain he vxuzxgizotm oz, gtj, otjkkj, zngz ck somnz
arzosgzkre ghgtjut oz grzumkznkx coznuaz otyoyzotm ut gte otjkstoze,
zkxxozuxogr ux uznkxcoyk. Cngzkbkx sge hk znk lgryk osvxkyyouty atjkx cnoin
znke ngbk gizkj, znk gjuvzout gtj vxuykiazout ul znk ktkxmkzoi vuroie
vxuvuykj sayz yuut atjkikobk znks.

Ot znk lazaxk vxuykiazout ul znk cgx znk ktkse sayz hk sgjk zu lkkr ozy
vxkyyaxk suxk zngt znke ngbk nkxkzuluxk jutk. Gz ozy iussktiksktz oz cgy
jkkskj vxuvkx zu iutjaiz oz ot g yvoxoz ul luxhkgxgtik gtj rohkxgroze. Cozn
znoy ktj ot bokc, kgxre skgyaxky ckxk gjuvzkj zu iutiorogzk, gy lgx gy g
yzgzk ul cgx cuarj vkxsoz, znk sgyy ul znk Skdoigt vuvargzout; zu iutbotik
znks zngz znk cgx cgy cgmkj, tuz gmgotyz znk vkgiklar otnghozgtzy ul
Skdoiu, haz gmgotyz znkox lgoznrkyy Mubkxtsktz, cnoin ngj iussktikj
nuyzorozoky; zu xksubk lxus znkox sotjy znk lgryk osvxkyyouty cnoin znkox
jkyomtotm gtj otzkxkyzkj xarkxy ngj gxzlarre gzzksvzkj zu sgqk, zngz znk
cgx ut uax vgxz cgy utk ul iutwakyz, zngz oz cgy g cgx gmgotyz znkox
xkromout gtj znkox inaxinky, cnoin ckxk zu hk jkykixgzkj gtj ubkxznxuct,
gtj zngz znkox xomnzy ul vkxyut gtj vxobgzk vxuvkxze cuarj hk bourgzkj. Zu
xksubk znkyk lgryk osvxkyyouty, uax iussgtjkxy ot znk lokrj ckxk joxkizkj
yixavaruayre zu xkyvkiz znkox xkromout, znkox inaxinky, gtj znkox inaxin
vxuvkxze, cnoin ckxk ot tu sgttkx zu hk bourgzkj; znke ckxk joxkizkj gryu
zu xkyvkiz znk xomnzy ul vkxyuty gtj vxuvkxze ul grr cnu ynuarj tuz zgqk av
gxsy gmgotyz ay.

Gyyaxgtiky zu znoy kllkiz ckxk mobkt zu znk Skdoigt vkuvrk he Sgpux Mktkxgr
Zgerux ot g vxuirgsgzout oyyakj ot vaxyagtik ul otyzxaizouty lxus znk
Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx ot znk sutzn ul Patk, 1846, gtj gmgot he Sgpux-Mktkxgr
Yiuzz, cnu gizkj avut noy uct iutboizouty ul znk vxuvxokze ul oyyaotm oz,
ot g vxuirgsgzout ul znk 11zn ul Sge, 1847. Ot znoy yvoxoz ul rohkxgroze
gtj iutiorogzout, gtj cozn g bokc zu vxkbktz znk huje ul znk Skdoigt
vuvargzout lxus zgqotm av gxsy gmgotyz ay, cgy znk cgx iutjaizkj ut uax
vgxz. Vxuboyouty gtj uznkx yavvroky laxtoynkj zu uax Gxse he Skdoigt
iozofkty ckxk vgoj lux gz lgox gtj rohkxgr vxoiky, gmxkkj avut he znk
vgxzoky. Glzkx znk rgvyk ul g lkc sutzny oz hkigsk gvvgxktz zngz znkyk
gyyaxgtiky gtj znoy sorj zxkgzsktz ngj lgorkj zu vxujaik znk jkyoxkj kllkiz
avut znk Skdoigt vuvargzout. Cnork znk cgx ngj hkkt iutjaizkj ut uax vgxz
giiuxjotm zu znk suyz nasgtk gtj rohkxgr vxotiovrky uhykxbkj he ioborofkj
tgzouty, oz cgy cgmkj ot g lgx jollkxktz yvoxoz ut znk vgxz ul Skdoiu. Tuz
gvvxkiogzotm uax luxhkgxgtik, znk Skdoigt vkuvrk mktkxgrre hkigsk nuyzork
zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj gbgorkj znksykrbky ul kbkxe uvvuxzatoze zu iussoz
znk suyz ygbgmk kdikyyky avut uax zxuuvy. Rgxmk tashkxy ul znk vuvargzout
zuuq av gxsy, gtj, ktmgmotm ot makxxorrg cgxlgxk, xuhhkj gtj saxjkxkj ot
znk suyz ixakr sgttkx otjobojagr yurjokxy ux ysgrr vgxzoky cnus giiojktz ux
uznkx igayky ngj ykvgxgzkj lxus znk sgot huje ul uax Gxse; hgtjy ul
makxxorrkxuy gtj xuhhkxy otlkyzkj znk xugjy, ngxgyykj uax zxgoty, gtj
cnktkbkx oz cgy ot znkox vuckx iaz ull uax yavvroky.

Znk Skdoigty ngbotm znay ynuct znksykrbky zu hk cnurre otigvghrk ul
gvvxkiogzotm uax luxhkgxgtik gtj rohkxgroze, oz cgy jkkskj vxuvkx zu ingtmk
znk sgttkx ul iutjaizotm znk cgx, he sgqotm znks lkkr ozy vxkyyaxk
giiuxjotm zu znk aygmky uhykxbkj atjkx yosorgx ioxiasyzgtiky he grr uznkx
ioborofkj tgzouty.

Giiuxjotmre, gy kgxre gy znk 22j ul Ykvzkshkx, 1846, otyzxaizouty ckxk
mobkt he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx zu Sgpux-Mktkxgr Zgerux zu "jxgc yavvroky"
lux uax Gxse "lxus znk ktkse coznuaz vgeotm lux znks, gtj zu xkwaoxk
iutzxohazouty lux ozy yavvuxz, ol ot zngz cge nk cgy ygzoylokj nk iuarj mkz
ghatjgtz yavvroky lux noy luxiky." Ot joxkizotm znk kdkiazout ul znkyk
otyzxaizouty sain cgy tkikyygxore rklz zu znk joyixkzout ul znk iussgtjotm
ulloikx, cnu cgy hkyz giwagotzkj cozn znk ioxiasyzgtiky he cnoin nk cgy
yaxxuatjkj, znk cgtzy ul znk Gxse, gtj znk vxgizoighoroze ul ktluxiotm znk
skgyaxk. Mktkxgr Zgerux, ut znk 26zn ul Uizuhkx, 1846, xkvrokj lxus
Sutzkxke zngz "oz cuarj ngbk hkkt osvuyyohrk noznkxzu, gtj oy yu tuc, zu
yayzgot znk Gxse zu gte kdzktz he luxikj iutzxohazouty ul sutke ux
yavvroky." Lux znk xkgyuty gyyomtkj he nos, nk joj tuz gjuvz znk vuroie ul
noy otyzxaizouty, haz jkirgxkj noy xkgjotkyy zu ju yu "ynuarj znk Gxse ot
ozy lazaxk uvkxgzouty xkgin g vuxzout ul znk iuatzxe cnoin sge hk sgjk zu
yavvre znk zxuuvy cozn gjbgtzgmk." Nk iutzotakj zu vge lux znk gxzoirky ul
yavvre cnoin ckxk jxgct lxus znk ktkse'y iuatzxe.

Yosorgx otyzxaizouty ckxk oyyakj zu Sgpux-Mktkxgr Yiuzz ut znk 3j ul Gvxor,
1847, cnu xkvrokj lxus Pgrgvg ut znk 20zn ul Sge, 1847, zngz ol oz hk
kdvkizkj "zngz znk Gxse oy zu yavvuxz ozykrl he luxikj iutzxohazouty rkbokj
avut znk iuatzxe ck sge xaot gtj kdgyvkxgzk znk otnghozgtzy gtj yzgxbk
uaxykrbky." Znk ygsk joyixkzout cgy mobkt zu nos zngz ngj hkkt zu Mktkxgr
Zgerux ot znoy xkyvkiz. Mktkxgr Yiuzz, lux znk xkgyuty gyyomtkj he nos,
gryu iutzotakj zu vge lux znk gxzoirky ul yavvre lux znk Gxse cnoin ckxk
jxgct lxus znk ktkse.

Glzkx znk Gxse ngj xkginkj znk nkgxz ul znk suyz ckgrzne vuxzout ul Skdoiu
oz cgy yavvuykj zngz znk uhyzgirky cnoin ngj hkluxk zngz zosk vxkbktzkj oz
cuarj tuz hk yain gy zu xktjkx osvxgizoighrk znk rkbe ul luxikj
iutzxohazouty lux ozy yavvuxz, gtj ut znk 1yz ul Ykvzkshkx gtj gmgot ut znk
6zn ul Uizuhkx, 1847, znk uxjkx cgy xkvkgzkj ot joyvgzinky gjjxkyykj he znk
Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx zu Mktkxgr Yiuzz, gtj noy gzzktzout cgy gmgot igrrkj zu
znk osvuxzgtik ul sgqotm znk ktkse hkgx znk haxjkty ul znk cgx he xkwaoxotm
znks zu laxtoyn znk skgty ul yavvuxzotm uax Gxse, gtj nk cgy joxkizkj zu
gjuvz znoy vuroie atrkyy he juotm yu znkxk cgy jgtmkx ul jkvxobotm znk Gxse
ul znk tkikyygxe yavvroky. Iuvoky ul znkyk joyvgzinky ckxk luxcgxjkj zu
Mktkxgr Zgerux lux noy mubkxtsktz.

Ut znk 31yz ul Sgxin rgyz O igaykj gt uxjkx zu hk oyyakj zu uax sorozgxe
gtj tgbgr iussgtjkxy zu rkbe gtj iurrkiz g sorozgxe iutzxohazout avut grr
bkyykry gtj skxingtjoyk cnoin somnz ktzkx gte ul znk vuxzy ul Skdoiu ot uax
sorozgxe uiiavgzout, gtj zu gvvre yain iutzxohazouty zucgxj jklxgeotm znk
kdvktyky ul znk cgx. He boxzak ul znk xomnz ul iutwakyz gtj znk rgcy ul
cgx, znk iutwakxux, iutyarzotm noy uct yglkze ux iutbktoktik, sge koznkx
kdirajk luxkomt iusskxik grzumkznkx lxus grr yain vuxzy ux vkxsoz oz avut
yain zkxsy gtj iutjozouty gy nk sge vxkyixohk. Hkluxk znk vxotiovgr vuxzy
ul Skdoiu ckxk hruiqgjkj he uax Tgbe znk xkbktak jkxobkj lxus osvuxz jazoky
atjkx znk rgcy ul Skdoiu cgy vgoj otzu znk Skdoigt zxkgyaxe. Glzkx znkyk
vuxzy ngj lgrrkt otzu uax sorozgxe vuyykyyout znk hruiqgjk cgy xgoykj gtj
iusskxik cozn znks vkxsozzkj avut vxkyixohkj zkxsy gtj iutjozouty. Znke
ckxk uvktkj zu znk zxgjk ul grr tgzouty avut znk vgesktz ul jazoky suxk
sujkxgzk ot znkox gsuatz zngt znuyk cnoin ngj hkkt vxkbouayre rkbokj he
Skdoiu, gtj znk xkbktak, cnoin cgy luxskxre vgoj otzu znk Skdoigt zxkgyaxe,
cgy joxkizkj zu hk iurrkizkj he uax sorozgxe gtj tgbgr ulloikxy gtj gvvrokj
zu znk ayk ul uax Gxse gtj Tgbe. Igxk cgy zgqkt zngz znk ulloikxy,
yurjokxy, gtj ygoruxy ul uax Gxse gtj Tgbe ynuarj hk kdksvzkj lxus znk
uvkxgzouty ul znk uxjkx, gtj, gy znk skxingtjoyk osvuxzkj avut cnoin znk
uxjkx uvkxgzkj sayz hk iutyaskj he Skdoigt iozofkty, znk iutzxohazouty
kdgizkj ckxk ot kllkiz znk ykofaxk ul znk vahroi xkbktaky ul Skdoiu gtj znk
gvvroigzout ul znks zu uax uct ayk. Ot joxkizotm znoy skgyaxk znk uhpkiz
cgy zu iusvkr znk ktkse zu iutzxohazk gy lgx gy vxgizoighrk zucgxj znk
kdvktyky ul znk cgx.

Lux znk gsuatz ul iutzxohazouty cnoin ngbk hkkt rkbokj ot znoy luxs O xklkx
eua zu znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxzy ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx gtj ul znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe, he cnoin oz gvvkgxy zngz g yas kdikkjotm ngrl g
sorrout ul jurrgxy ngy hkkt iurrkizkj. Znoy gsuatz cuarj atjuahzkjre ngbk
hkkt sain rgxmkx haz lux znk jolloiarze ul qkkvotm uvkt iussatoigzouty
hkzckkt znk iugyz gtj znk otzkxoux, yu gy zu ktghrk znk uctkxy ul znk
skxingtjoyk osvuxzkj zu zxgtyvuxz gtj bktj oz zu znk otnghozgtzy ul znk
iuatzxe. Oz oy iutlojktzre kdvkizkj zngz znoy jolloiarze corr zu g mxkgz
kdzktz hk yuut xksubkj he uax otixkgykj luxiky cnoin ngbk hkkt yktz zu znk
lokrj.

Skgyaxky ngbk xkiktzre hkkt gjuvzkj he cnoin znk otzkxtgr gy ckrr gy znk
kdzkxtgr xkbktaky ul Skdoiu ot grr vrgiky ot uax sorozgxe uiiavgzout corr
hk ykofkj gtj gvvxuvxogzkj zu znk ayk ul uax Gxse gtj Tgbe.

Znk vuroie ul rkbeotm avut znk ktkse iutzxohazouty ot kbkxe luxs
iutyoyzktzre cozn znk rgcy ul tgzouty, cnoin oz sge hk vxgizoighrk lux uax
sorozgxe iussgtjkxy zu gjuvz, ynuarj, ot se pajmsktz, hk xomojre ktluxikj,
gtj uxjkxy zu znoy kllkiz ngbk giiuxjotmre hkkt mobkt. He yain g vuroie, gz
znk ygsk zosk zngz uax uct Zxkgyaxe corr hk xkrokbkj lxus g nkgbe jxgot,
znk Skdoigt vkuvrk corr hk sgjk zu lkkr znk haxjkty ul znk cgx, gtj,
iutyarzotm znkox uct otzkxkyzy, sge hk otjaikj znk suxk xkgjore zu xkwaoxk
znkox xarkxy zu giikjk zu g payz vkgik.

Glzkx znk gjpuaxtsktz ul znk rgyz ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy kbktzy zxgtyvoxkj ot
znk vxuykiazout ul znk cgx cnoin ot se pajmsktz xkwaoxkj g mxkgzkx tashkx
ul zxuuvy ot znk lokrj zngt ngj hkkt gtzoiovgzkj. Znk yzxktmzn ul znk Gxse
cgy giiuxjotmre otixkgykj he "giikvzotm" znk ykxboiky ul grr znk buratzkkx
luxiky gaznuxofkj he znk giz ul znk 13zn ul Sge, 1846, coznuaz vazzotm g
iutyzxaizout ut zngz giz znk iuxxkiztkyy ul cnoin cgy ykxouayre wakyzoutkj.
Znk buratzkkx luxiky tuc ot znk lokrj, cozn znuyk cnoin ngj hkkt "giikvzkj"
zu "ykxbk lux zckrbk sutzny" gtj ckxk joyingxmkj gz znk ktj ul znkox zkxs
ul ykxboik, kdngayz znk 50,000 skt gaznuxofkj he zngz giz. Ngj oz hkkt
irkgx zngz g vxuvkx iutyzxaizout ul znk giz cgxxgtzkj oz, znk ykxboiky ul
gt gjjozoutgr tashkx cuarj ngbk hkkt igrrkj lux gtj giikvzkj; haz juahzy
kdoyzotm avut znoy vuotz, znk vuckx cgy tuz kdkxioykj. Oz oy jkkskj
osvuxzgtz zngz Iutmxkyy ynuarj gz gt kgxre vkxouj ul znkox ykyyout iutlkx
znk gaznuxoze zu xgoyk gt gjjozoutgr xkmargx luxik zu ykxbk jaxotm znk cgx
cozn Skdoiu gtj zu hk joyingxmkj avut znk iutirayout gtj xgzoloigzout ul g
zxkgze ul vkgik. O otbozk znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy zu znk bokcy vxkyktzkj
he znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx ot noy xkvuxz avut znoy yahpkiz.

O xkiussktj gryu zngz gaznuxoze hk mobkt he rgc zu igrr lux gtj giikvz znk
ykxboiky ul gt gjjozoutgr tashkx ul buratzkkxy, zu hk kdkxioykj gz yain
zosk gtj zu yain kdzktz gy znk kskxmktioky ul znk ykxboik sge xkwaoxk.

Ot vxuykiazotm znk cgx cozn Skdoiu, cnoryz znk azsuyz igxk ngy hkkt zgqkt
zu gbuoj kbkxe payz igayk ul iusvrgotz ut znk vgxz ul tkazxgr tgzouty, gtj
tutk ngy hkkt mobkt, rohkxgr vxoborkmky ngbk hkkt mxgtzkj zu znkox iusskxik
ot znk vuxzy ul znk ktkse ot uax sorozgxe uiiavgzout. Znk jolloiarze cozn
znk Hxgforogt Mubkxtsktz, cnoin gz utk zosk znxkgzktkj zu otzkxxavz znk
lxoktjre xkrgzouty hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky, corr, O zxayz, hk yvkkjore
gjpayzkj. O ngbk xkikobkj otluxsgzout zngz gt ktbue kdzxguxjotgxe gtj
sotoyzkx vrktovuzktzogxe zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky corr ynuxzre hk gvvuotzkj he
Noy Osvkxogr Sgpkyze, gtj oz oy nuvkj zngz nk corr iusk otyzxaizkj gtj
vxkvgxkj zu gjpayz grr xksgototm jollkxktiky hkzckkt znk zcu Mubkxtsktzy ot
g sgttkx giikvzghrk gtj nutuxghrk zu huzn. Ot znk skgtzosk, O ngbk kbkxe
xkgyut zu hkrokbk zngz tuznotm corr uiiax zu otzkxxavz uax gsoighrk
xkrgzouty cozn Hxgfor.

Oz ngy hkkt se iutyzgtz klluxz zu sgotzgot gtj iarzobgzk znk suyz otzosgzk
xkrgzouty ul lxoktjynov cozn grr znk otjkvktjktz vuckxy ul Yuazn Gskxoig,
gtj znoy vuroie ngy hkkt gzzktjkj cozn znk ngvvokyz xkyarzy. Oz oy zxak
zngz znk ykzzrksktz gtj vgesktz ul sgte payz irgosy ul Gskxoigt iozofkty
gmgotyz znkyk tgzouty ngbk hkkt rutm jkrgekj. Znk vkiarogx vuyozout ot
cnoin znke ngbk hkkt vrgikj gtj znk jkyoxk ut znk vgxz ul se vxkjkikyyuxy
gy ckrr gy seykrl zu mxgtz znks znk azsuyz otjarmktik ngbk noznkxzu
vxkbktzkj znkyk irgosy lxus hkotm axmkj ot g sgttkx jksgtjkj he yzxoiz
payzoik. Znk zosk ngy gxxobkj cnkt znke uamnz zu hk lotgrre gjpayzkj gtj
rowaojgzkj, gtj klluxzy gxk tuc sgqotm lux zngz vaxvuyk.

Oz oy vxuvkx zu otluxs eua zngz znk Mubkxtsktz ul Vkxa ngy ot muuj lgozn
vgoj znk loxyz zcu otyzgrrsktzy ul znk otjkstoze ul $30,000 kgin, gtj znk
mxkgzkx vuxzout ul znk otzkxkyz jak znkxkut, ot kdkiazout ul znk iutbktzout
hkzckkt zngz Mubkxtsktz gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky znk xgzoloigzouty ul cnoin
ckxk kdingtmkj gz Rosg ut znk 31yz ul Uizuhkx, 1846. Znk Gzzuxtke-Mktkxgr
ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky kgxre ot Gamayz rgyz iusvrkzkj znk gjpajoigzout ul znk
irgosy atjkx znoy iutbktzout, gtj sgjk noy xkvuxz znkxkut ot vaxyagtik ul
znk giz ul znk 8zn ul Gamayz, 1846. Znk yasy zu cnoin znk irgosgtzy gxk
xkyvkizobkre ktzozrkj corr hk vgoj ut jksgtj gz znk Zxkgyaxe.

O otbozk znk kgxre gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy zu znk vxkyktz iutjozout ul uax
iozofkty ot Inotg. Atjkx uax zxkgze cozn zngz vuckx Gskxoigt iozofkty gxk
coznjxgct lxus znk paxoyjoizout, cnkznkx iobor ux ixosotgr, ul znk Inotkyk
Mubkxtsktz gtj vrgikj atjkx zngz ul uax vahroi latizoutgxoky ot zngz
iuatzxe. He znkyk grutk igt uax iozofkty hk zxokj gtj vatoynkj lux znk
iussoyyout ul gte ixosk; he znkyk grutk igt wakyzouty hk jkiojkj hkzckkt
znks otburbotm znk xomnzy ul vkxyuty gtj vxuvkxze, gtj he znkyk grutk igt
iutzxgizy hk ktluxikj otzu cnoin znke sge ngbk ktzkxkj cozn znk iozofkty ux
yahpkizy ul luxkomt vuckxy. Znk skxingtz bkyykry ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky reotm
ot znk cgzkxy ul znk lobk vuxzy ul Inotg uvkt zu luxkomt iusskxik gxk atjkx
znk kdirayobk paxoyjoizout ul ulloikxy ul znkox uct Mubkxtsktz. Atzor
Iutmxkyy yngrr kyzghroyn iusvkzktz zxohatgry zu zxe gtj vatoyn ixosky gtj
zu kdkxioyk paxoyjoizout ot iobor igyky ot Inotg, Gskxoigt iozofkty znkxk
gxk yahpkiz zu tu rgc cngzkbkx. Ixosky sge hk iussozzkj cozn osvatoze gtj
jkhzy sge hk iutzxgizkj coznuaz gte skgty zu ktluxik znkox vgesktz.
Otiutbktoktiky ngbk grxkgje xkyarzkj lxus znk usoyyout ul Iutmxkyy zu
rkmoyrgzk avut znk yahpkiz, gtj yzorr mxkgzkx gxk gvvxknktjkj. Znk Hxozoyn
gaznuxozoky ot Inotg ngbk grxkgje iusvrgotkj zngz znoy Mubkxtsktz ngy tuz
vxubojkj lux znk vatoynsktz ul ixosky ux znk ktluxiksktz ul iutzxgizy
gmgotyz Gskxoigt iozofkty ot zngz iuatzxe, cnoryz znkox Mubkxtsktz ngy
kyzghroynkj zxohatgry he cnoin gt Gskxoigt iozofkt igt xkiubkx jkhzy jak
lxus Hxozoyn yahpkizy. Giiayzuskj, gy znk Inotkyk gxk, zu yassgxe payzoik,
znke iuarj tuz hk sgjk zu iusvxknktj cne ixosotgry cnu gxk iozofkty ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky ynuarj kyigvk cozn osvatoze, ot bourgzout ul zxkgze
uhromgzouty, cnoryz znk vatoynsktz ul g Inotkyk cnu ngj iussozzkj gte ixosk
gmgotyz gt Gskxoigt iozofkt cuarj hk xomuxuayre kdgizkj. Otjkkj, znk
iutykwaktiky somnz hk lgzgr zu Gskxoigt iozofkty ot Inotg ynuarj g lrgmxgtz
ixosk hk iussozzkj he gte utk ul znks avut g Inotkyk, gtj ynuarj zxogr gtj
vatoynsktz tuz lurruc giiuxjotm zu znk xkwaoyozouty ul znk zxkgze. Znoy
somnz joyzaxh, ol tuz jkyzxue, uax lxoktjre xkrgzouty cozn zngz Ksvoxk, gtj
igayk gt otzkxxavzout ul uax bgraghrk iusskxik. Uax zxkgzoky cozn znk
Yahrosk Vuxzk, Zxovuro, Zatoy, Suxuiiu, gtj Sayigz gryu xkwaoxk znk
rkmoyrgzout ul Iutmxkyy zu igxxe znks otzu kdkiazout, znuamn znk tkikyyoze
lux osskjogzk gizout sge tuz hk yu axmktz gy ot xkmgxj zu Inotg.

Znk Ykixkzgxe ul Yzgzk ngy yahsozzkj gt kyzosgzk zu jklxge znk kdvktyk ul
uvktotm jovrusgzoi xkrgzouty cozn znk Vgvgr Yzgzky. Znk otzkxkyzotm
vurozoigr kbktzy tuc ot vxumxkyy ot znkyk Yzgzky, gy ckrr gy g payz xkmgxj
zu uax iusskxiogr otzkxkyzy, ngbk, ot se uvotout, xktjkxkj yain g skgyaxk
nomnre kdvkjoktz.

Kyzosgzky ngbk gryu hkkt yahsozzkj lux znk uazlozy gtj ygrgxoky ul ingxmky'
j'gllgoxky zu znk Xkvahroiy ul Hurobog, Magzksgrg, gtj Kiagjux. Znk
sgtolkyz osvuxzgtik ul iarzobgzotm znk suyz lxoktjre xkrgzouty cozn grr znk
otjkvktjktz Yzgzky avut znoy iutzotktz ngy otjaikj sk zu xkiussktj
gvvxuvxogzouty tkikyygxe lux znk sgotzktgtik ul znkyk soyyouty.

O xkiussktj zu Iutmxkyy zngz gt gvvxuvxogzout hk sgjk zu hk vgoj zu znk
Yvgtoyn Mubkxtsktz lux znk vaxvuyk ul joyzxohazout gsutm znk irgosgtzy ot
znk Gsoyzgj igyk. O ktzkxzgot znk iutboizout zngz znoy oy jak zu Yvgot
atjkx znk zxkgze ul znk 20zn ul Uizuhkx, 1795, gtj, suxkubkx, zngz lxus znk
kgxtkyz sgttkx ot cnoin znk irgos iutzotaky zu hk axmkj yu rutm gy oz yngrr
xksgot atykzzrkj oz corr hk g yuaxik ul oxxozgzout gtj joyiuxj hkzckkt znk
zcu iuatzxoky, cnoin sge vxubk nomnre vxkpajoiogr zu znk otzkxkyzy ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky. Muuj vuroie, tu rkyy zngt g lgoznlar iusvrogtik cozn uax
zxkgze uhromgzouty, xkwaoxky zngz znk otiutyojkxghrk gvvxuvxogzout jksgtjkj
ynuarj hk sgjk.

G jkzgorkj yzgzksktz ul znk iutjozout ul znk lotgtiky corr hk vxkyktzkj ot
znk gttagr xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe. Znk osvuxzy lux znk
rgyz loyigr ekgx, ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk, 1847, ckxk ul znk bgrak ul
$146,545,638, ul cnoin znk gsuatz kdvuxzkj cgy $8,011,158, rkgbotm
$138,534,480 ot znk iuatzxe lux juskyzoi ayk. Znk bgrak ul znk kdvuxzy lux
znk ygsk vkxouj cgy $158,648,622, ul cnoin $150,637,464 iutyoyzkj ul
juskyzoi vxujaizouty gtj $8,011,158 ul luxkomt gxzoirky.

Znk xkikovzy otzu znk Zxkgyaxe lux znk ygsk vkxouj gsuatzkj zu
$26,346,790.37, ul cnoin znkxk cgy jkxobkj lxus iayzusy $23,747,864.66,
lxus ygrky ul vahroi rgtjy $2,498,335.20, gtj lxus otiojktzgr gtj
soyikrrgtkuay yuaxiky $100,570.51. Znk rgyz loyigr ekgx, jaxotm cnoin znoy
gsuatz cgy xkikobkj, kshxgikj lobk sutzny atjkx znk uvkxgzout ul znk zgxoll
giz ul 1842 gtj ykbkt sutzny jaxotm cnoin znk zgxoll giz ul 1846 cgy ot
luxik. Jaxotm znk lobk sutzny atjkx znk giz ul 1842 znk gsuatz xkikobkj
lxus iayzusy cgy $7,842,306.90, gtj jaxotm znk ykbkt sutzny atjkx znk giz
ul 1846 znk gsuatz xkikobkj cgy $15,905,557.76.

Znk tkz xkbktak lxus iayzusy jaxotm znk ekgx ktjotm ut znk 1yz ul Jkikshkx,
1846, hkotm znk rgyz ekgx atjkx znk uvkxgzout ul znk zgxoll giz ul 1842,
cgy $22,971,403.10, gtj znk tkz xkbktak lxus iayzusy jaxotm znk ekgx ktjotm
ut znk 1yz ul Jkikshkx, 1847, hkotm znk loxyz ekgx atjkx znk uvkxgzouty ul
znk zgxoll giz ul 1846, cgy ghuaz $31,500,000, hkotm gt otixkgyk ul xkbktak
lux znk loxyz ekgx atjkx znk zgxoll ul 1846 ul suxk zngt $8,500,000 ubkx
zngz ul znk rgyz ekgx atjkx znk zgxoll ul 1842.

Znk kdvktjozaxky jaxotm znk loyigr ekgx ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk rgyz
ckxk $59,451,177.65, ul cnoin $3,522,082.37 cgy ut giiuatz vgesktz ul
vxotiovgr gtj otzkxkyz ul znk vahroi jkhz, otirajotm Zxkgyaxe tuzky
xkjkkskj gtj tuz latjkj. Znk kdvktjozaxky kdirayobk ul vgesktz ul vahroi
jkhz ckxk $55,929,095.28.

Oz oy kyzosgzkj zngz znk xkikovzy otzu znk Zxkgyaxe lux znk loyigr ekgx
ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk, 1848, otirajotm znk hgrgtik ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut
znk 1yz ul Pare rgyz, corr gsuatz zu $42,886,545.80, ul cnoin $31,000,000,
oz oy kyzosgzkj, corr hk jkxobkj lxus iayzusy, $3,500,000 lxus znk ygrk ul
znk vahroi rgtjy, $400,000 lxus otiojktzgr yuaxiky, krajotm ygrky sgjk he
znk Yuroiozux ul znk Zxkgyaxe, gtj $6,285,294.55 lxus rugty grxkgje
gaznuxofkj he rgc, cnoin, zumkznkx cozn znk hgrgtik ot znk Zxkgyaxe ut znk
1yz ul Pare rgyz, sgqk znk yas kyzosgzkj.

Znk kdvktjozaxky lux znk ygsk vkxouj, ol vkgik cozn Skdoiu yngrr tuz hk
iutirajkj gtj znk Gxse yngrr hk otixkgykj gy oy vxuvuykj, corr gsuatz,
otirajotm znk tkikyygxe vgesktzy ut giiuatz ul vxotiovgr gtj otzkxkyz ul
znk vahroi jkhz gtj Zxkgyaxe tuzky, zu $58,615,660.07. Ut znk 1yz ul znk
vxkyktz sutzn znk gsuatz ul znk vahroi jkhz gizagrre otiaxxkj, otirajotm
Zxkgyaxe tuzky, cgy $45,659,659.40. Znk vahroi jkhz jak ut znk 4zn ul
Sgxin, 1845, otirajotm Zxkgyaxe tuzky, cgy $17,788,799.62, gtj iutykwaktzre
znk gjjozout sgjk zu znk vahroi jkhz yotik zngz zosk oy $27,870,859.78.

Ul znk rugt ul zcktze-znxkk sorrouty gaznuxofkj he znk giz ul znk 28zn ul
Pgtagxe, 1847, znk yas ul lobk sorrouty cgy vgoj uaz zu znk vahroi
ixkjozuxy ux kdingtmkj gz vgx lux yvkiok; znk xksgototm komnzkkt sorrouty
cgy ullkxkj lux yvkiok zu znk nomnkyz hojjkx tuz hkruc vgx, he gt
gjbkxzoyksktz oyyakj he znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe gtj vahroynkj lxus
znk 9zn ul Lkhxagxe atzor znk 10zn ul Gvxor, 1847, cnkt oz cgy gcgxjkj zu
znk ykbkxgr nomnkyz hojjkxy gz vxksoasy bgxeotm lxus utk-komnzn ul vkx iktz
zu 2 vkx iktz ghubk vgx. Znk vxksoas ngy hkkt vgoj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe gtj
znk yasy gcgxjkj jkvuyozkj ot yvkiok ot znk Zxkgyaxe gy lgyz gy oz cgy
xkwaoxkj he znk cgtzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz.

Zu skkz znk kdvktjozaxky lux znk xksgotjkx ul znk vxkyktz gtj lux znk tkdz
loyigr ekgx, ktjotm ut znk 30zn ul Patk, 1849, g laxznkx rugt ot goj ul znk
uxjotgxe xkbktaky ul znk Mubkxtsktz corr hk tkikyygxe. Xkzgototm g
yalloioktz yaxvray ot znk Zxkgyaxe, znk rugt xkwaoxkj lux znk xksgotjkx ul
znk vxkyktz loyigr ekgx corr hk ghuaz $18,500,000. Ol znk jaze ut zkg gtj
iullkk hk osvuykj gtj znk mxgjagzout ul znk vxoik ul znk vahroi rgtjy yngrr
hk sgjk gz gt kgxre vkxouj ul euax ykyyout, gy xkiussktjkj, znk rugt lux
znk vxkyktz loyigr ekgx sge hk xkjaikj zu $17,000,000. Znk rugt sge hk
laxznkx xkjaikj he cngzkbkx gsuatz ul kdvktjozaxky igt hk ygbkj he sorozgxe
iutzxohazouty iurrkizkj ot Skdoiu. Znk suyz bomuxuay skgyaxky lux znk
gamsktzgzout ul znkyk iutzxohazouty ngbk hkkt joxkizkj gtj g bkxe
iutyojkxghrk yas oy kdvkizkj lxus zngz yuaxik. Ozy gsuatz igt tuz, nuckbkx,
hk igriargzkj cozn gte ikxzgotze. Oz oy xkiussktjkj zngz znk rugt zu hk
sgjk hk gaznuxofkj avut znk ygsk zkxsy gtj lux znk ygsk zosk gy zngz cnoin
cgy gaznuxofkj atjkx znk vxuboyouty ul znk giz ul znk 28zn ul Pgtagxe,
1847.

Ynuarj znk cgx cozn Skdoiu hk iutzotakj atzor znk 30zn ul Patk, 1849, oz oy
kyzosgzkj zngz g laxznkx rugt ul $20,500,000 corr hk xkwaoxkj lux znk
loyigr ekgx ktjotm ut zngz jge, ot igyk tu jaze hk osvuykj ut zkg gtj
iullkk, gtj znk vahroi rgtjy hk tuz xkjaikj gtj mxgjagzkj ot vxoik, gtj tu
sorozgxe iutzxohazouty yngrr hk iurrkizkj ot Skdoiu. Ol znk jaze ut zkg gtj
iullkk hk osvuykj gtj znk rgtjy hk xkjaikj gtj mxgjagzkj ot vxoik gy
vxuvuykj, znk rugt sge hk xkjaikj zu $17,000,000, gtj corr hk yahpkiz zu hk
yzorr laxznkx xkjaikj he znk gsuatz ul znk sorozgxe iutzxohazouty cnoin sge
hk iurrkizkj ot Skdoiu. Oz oy tuz vxuvuykj, nuckbkx, gz vxkyktz zu gyq
Iutmxkyy lux gaznuxoze zu tkmuzogzk znoy rugt lux znk tkdz loyigr ekgx, gy
oz oy nuvkj zngz znk rugt gyqkj lux znk xksgotjkx ul znk vxkyktz loyigr
ekgx, gojkj he sorozgxe iutzxohazouty cnoin sge hk iurrkizkj ot Skdoiu, sge
hk yalloioktz. Ol, iutzxgxe zu se kdvkizgzout, znkxk ynuarj hk g tkikyyoze
lux oz, znk lgiz corr hk iussatoigzkj zu Iutmxkyy ot zosk lux znkox gizout
jaxotm znk vxkyktz ykyyout. Ot tu kbktz corr g yas kdikkjotm $6,000,000 ul
znoy gsuatz hk tkkjkj hkluxk znk skkzotm ul znk ykyyout ul Iutmxkyy ot
Jkikshkx, 1848.

Znk giz ul znk 30zn ul Pare, 1846, "xkjaiotm znk jazoky ut osvuxzy," ngy
hkkt ot luxik yotik znk 1yz ul Jkikshkx rgyz, gtj O gs mxgzolokj zu yzgzk
zngz grr znk hktkloiogr kllkizy cnoin ckxk gtzoiovgzkj lxus ozy uvkxgzout
ngbk hkkt larre xkgrofkj. Znk vahroi xkbktak jkxobkj lxus iayzusy jaxotm
znk ekgx ktjotm ut znk 1yz ul Jkikshkx, 1847, kdikkjy he suxk zngt
$8,000,000 znk gsuatz xkikobkj ot znk vxkikjotm ekgx atjkx znk uvkxgzout ul
znk giz ul 1842, cnoin cgy yavkxykjkj gtj xkvkgrkj he oz. Ozy kllkizy gxk
boyohrk ot znk mxkgz gtj grsuyz atkdgsvrkj vxuyvkxoze cnoin vxkbgory ot
kbkxe hxgtin ul hayotkyy.

Cnork znk xkvkgr ul znk vxunohozuxe gtj xkyzxoizobk jazoky ul znk giz ul
1842 gtj znk yahyzozazout ot znkox vrgik ul xkgyutghrk xkbktak xgzky rkbokj
ut gxzoirky osvuxzkj giiuxjotm zu znkox gizagr bgrak ngy otixkgykj znk
xkbktak gtj gamsktzkj uax luxkomt zxgjk, grr znk mxkgz otzkxkyzy ul znk
iuatzxe ngbk hkkt gjbgtikj gtj vxusuzkj.

Znk mxkgz gtj osvuxzgtz otzkxkyzy ul gmxoiarzaxk, cnoin ngj hkkt tuz utre
zuu sain tkmrkizkj, haz gizagrre zgdkj atjkx znk vxuzkizobk vuroie lux znk
hktkloz ul uznkx otzkxkyzy, ngbk hkkt xkrokbkj ul znk haxjkty cnoin zngz
vuroie osvuykj ut znks; gtj uax lgxskxy gtj vrgtzkxy, atjkx g suxk payz gtj
rohkxgr iusskxiogr vuroie, gxk lotjotm tkc gtj vxulozghrk sgxqkzy ghxugj
lux znkox gamsktzkj vxujaizy. Uax iusskxik oy xgvojre otixkgyotm, gtj oy
kdzktjotm suxk cojkre znk ioxirk ul otzkxtgzoutgr kdingtmky. Mxkgz gy ngy
hkkt znk otixkgyk ul uax osvuxzy jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx, uax kdvuxzy ul
juskyzoi vxujaizy yurj ot luxkomt sgxqkzy ngbk hkkt yzorr mxkgzkx.

Uax tgbomgzotm otzkxkyz oy ksotktzre vxuyvkxuay. Znk tashkx ul bkyykry
haorz ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngy hkkt mxkgzkx zngt jaxotm gte vxkikjotm
vkxouj ul kwagr rktmzn. Rgxmk vxulozy ngbk hkkt jkxobkj he znuyk cnu ngbk
iutyzxaizkj gy ckrr gy he znuyk cnu ngbk tgbomgzkj znks. Ynuarj znk xgzou
ul otixkgyk ot znk tashkx ul uax skxingtz bkyykry hk vxumxkyyobk, gtj hk gy
mxkgz lux znk lazaxk gy jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx, znk zosk oy tuz joyzgtz cnkt
uax zuttgmk gtj iusskxiogr sgxotk corr hk rgxmkx zngt zngz ul gte uznkx
tgzout ot znk cuxrj.

Cnoryz znk otzkxkyzy ul gmxoiarzaxk, ul iusskxik, gtj ul tgbomgzout ngbk
hkkt ktrgxmkj gtj otbomuxgzkj, oz oy nomnre mxgzoleotm zu uhykxbk zngz uax
sgtalgizaxky gxk gryu ot g vxuyvkxuay iutjozout. Tutk ul znk xaotuay
kllkizy avut znoy otzkxkyz cnoin ckxk gvvxknktjkj he yusk gy znk xkyarz ul
znk uvkxgzout ul znk xkbktak yeyzks kyzghroynkj he znk giz ul 1846 ngbk
hkkt kdvkxoktikj. Ut znk iutzxgxe, znk tashkx ul sgtalgizuxoky gtj znk
gsuatz ul igvozgr otbkyzkj ot znks oy yzkgjore gtj xgvojre otixkgyotm,
glluxjotm mxgzoleotm vxuuly zngz Gskxoigt ktzkxvxoyk gtj yqorr ksvruekj ot
znoy hxgtin ul juskyzoi otjayzxe, cozn tu uznkx gjbgtzgmky zngt znuyk
lgoxre gtj otiojktzgrre giixaotm lxus g payz Yeyzks ul xkbktak jazoky, gxk
ghatjgtzre ghrk zu skkz yaiikyylarre grr iusvkzozout lxus ghxugj gtj yzorr
jkxobk lgox gtj xksatkxgzotm vxulozy. Cnork igvozgr otbkyzkj ot
sgtalgizaxky oy eokrjotm gjkwagzk gtj lgox vxulozy atjkx znk tkc yeyzks,
znk cgmky ul rghux, cnkznkx ksvruekj ot sgtalgizaxky, gmxoiarzaxk,
iusskxik, ux tgbomgzout, ngbk hkkt gamsktzkj. Znk zuorotm sorrouty cnuyk
jgore rghux laxtoynky znk yavvre ul luuj gtj xgosktz gtj grr znk
tkikyygxoky gtj iusluxzy ul rolk gxk xkikobotm nomnkx cgmky gtj suxk yzkgje
gtj vkxsgtktz ksvruesktz zngt ot gte uznkx iuatzxe ux gz gte vxkbouay
vkxouj ul uax uct noyzuxe.

Yu yaiikyylar ngbk hkkt grr hxgtinky ul uax otjayzxe zngz g luxkomt cgx,
cnoin mktkxgrre josotoynky znk xkyuaxiky ul g tgzout, ngy ot tu kyyktzogr
jkmxkk xkzgxjkj uax utcgxj vxumxkyy ux inkiqkj uax mktkxgr vxuyvkxoze.

Cozn yain mxgzoleotm kbojktiky ul vxuyvkxoze gtj ul znk yaiikyylar
uvkxgzout ul znk xkbktak giz ul 1846, kbkxe iutyojkxgzout ul vahroi vuroie
xkiussktjy zngz oz yngrr xksgot atingtmkj. Oz oy nuvkj zngz znk yeyzks ul
osvuyz jazoky cnoin oz kyzghroynkj sge hk xkmgxjkj gy znk vkxsgtktz vuroie
ul znk iuatzxe, gtj zngz znk mxkgz otzkxkyzy gllkizkj he oz sge tuz gmgot
hk yahpkiz zu hk otpaxouayre joyzaxhkj, gy znke ngbk nkxkzuluxk hkkt he
lxkwaktz gtj yuskzosky yajjkt ingtmky.

Lux znk vaxvuyk ul otixkgyotm znk xkbktak, gtj coznuaz ingtmotm ux
sujoleotm znk xgzky osvuykj he znk giz ul 1846 ut znk jazoghrk gxzoirky
kshxgikj he ozy vxuboyouty, O gmgot xkiussktj zu euax lgbuxghrk
iutyojkxgzout znk kdvkjoktie ul rkbeotm g xkbktak jaze ut zkg gtj iullkk.
Znk vuroie cnoin kdksvzkj znkyk gxzoirky lxus jaze jaxotm vkgik, gtj cnkt
znk xkbktak zu hk jkxobkj lxus znks cgy tuz tkkjkj, ikgyky zu kdoyz cnkt
znk iuatzxe oy ktmgmkj ot cgx gtj xkwaoxky znk ayk ul grr ul ozy gbgorghrk
xkyuaxiky. Oz oy g zgd cnoin cuarj hk yu mktkxgrre jollaykj gsutm znk
vkuvrk zngz oz cuarj hk lkrz uvvxkyyobkre he tutk gtj hk iusvrgotkj ul he
tutk. Oz oy hkrokbkj zngz znkxk gxk tuz ot znk royz ul osvuxzkj gxzoirky
gte cnoin gxk suxk vxuvkxre znk yahpkiz ul cgx jazoky zngt zkg gtj iullkk.

Oz oy kyzosgzkj zngz $3,000,000 cuarj hk jkxobkj gttagrre he g sujkxgzk
jaze osvuykj ut znkyk gxzoirky.

Ynuarj Iutmxkyy gbgor ozykrl ul znoy gjjozoutgr yuaxik ul xkbktak, tuz utre
cuarj znk gsuatz ul znk vahroi rugt xktjkxkj tkikyygxe he znk cgx cozn
Skdoiu hk josotoynkj zu zngz kdzktz, haz znk vahroi ixkjoz gtj znk vahroi
iutlojktik ot znk ghoroze gtj jkzkxsotgzout ul znk Mubkxtsktz zu skkz grr
ozy ktmgmksktzy vxusvzre cuarj hk suxk loxsre kyzghroynkj, gtj znk xkjaikj
gsuatz ul znk rugt cnoin oz sge hk tkikyygxe zu tkmuzogzk iuarj vxuhghre hk
uhzgotkj gz inkgvkx xgzky.

Iutmxkyy oy znkxkluxk igrrkj avut zu jkzkxsotk cnkznkx oz oy coykx zu
osvuyk znk cgx jazoky xkiussktjkj ux he usozzotm zu ju yu otixkgyk znk
vahroi jkhz gttagrre $3,000,000 yu rutm gy rugty yngrr hk xkwaoxkj zu
vxuykiazk znk cgx, gtj glzkxcgxjy vxubojk ot yusk uznkx luxs zu vge znk
yksogttagr otzkxkyz avut oz, gtj arzosgzkre zu kdzotmaoyn znk vxotiovgr. Ol
ot gjjozout zu znkyk jazoky Iutmxkyy ynuarj mxgjagzk gtj xkjaik znk vxoik
ul yain ul znk vahroi rgtjy gy kdvkxoktik ngy vxubkj corr tuz iussgtj znk
vxoik vrgikj avut znks he znk Mubkxtsktz, gt gjjozoutgr gttagr otiusk zu
znk Zxkgyaxe ul hkzckkt ngrl g sorrout gtj g sorrout ul jurrgxy, oz oy
kyzosgzkj, cuarj hk jkxobkj lxus znoy yuaxik. Ynuarj huzn skgyaxky xkikobk
znk ygtizout ul Iutmxkyy, znk gttagr gsuatz ul vahroi jkhz tkikyygxe zu hk
iutzxgizkj jaxotm znk iutzotagtik ul znk cgx cuarj hk xkjaikj tkgx
$4,000,000. Znk jazoky xkiussktjkj zu hk rkbokj ut zkg gtj iullkk oz oy
vxuvuykj yngrr hk rosozkj ot znkox jaxgzout zu znk ktj ul znk cgx, gtj
atzor znk vahroi jkhz xktjkxkj tkikyygxe zu hk iutzxgizkj he oz yngrr hk
joyingxmkj. Znk gsuatz ul znk vahroi jkhz zu hk iutzxgizkj ynuarj hk
rosozkj zu znk ruckyz vxgizoighrk yas, gtj ynuarj hk kdzotmaoynkj gy kgxre
glzkx znk iutirayout ul znk cgx gy znk skgty ul znk Zxkgyaxe corr vkxsoz.

Cozn znoy bokc, oz oy xkiussktjkj zngz gy yuut gy znk cgx yngrr hk ubkx grr
znk yaxvray ot znk Zxkgyaxe tuz tkkjkj lux uznkx otjoyvktyghrk uhpkizy
yngrr iutyzozazk g yotqotm latj gtj hk gvvrokj zu znk vaxingyk ul znk
latjkj jkhz, gtj zngz gaznuxoze hk iutlkxxkj he rgcy lux zngz vaxvuyk. Znk
giz ul znk 6zn ul Gamayz, 1846, "zu kyzghroyn g cgxknuayotm yeyzks," ngy
hkkt ot uvkxgzout suxk zngt g ekgx, gtj ngy vxubkj zu hk gt osvuxzgtz
gadorogxe zu znk zgxoll giz ul 1846 ot gamsktzotm znk xkbktak gtj kdzktjotm
znk iusskxik ul znk iuatzxe. Cnoryz oz ngy zktjkj zu ktrgxmk iusskxik, oz
ngy hkkt hktkloiogr zu uax sgtalgizaxky he josotoynotm luxikj ygrky gz
gaizout ul luxkomt muujy gz ruc vxoiky zu xgoyk znk jazoky zu hk gjbgtikj
ut znks, gtj he inkiqotm lraizagzouty ot znk sgxqkz. Znk yeyzks, grznuamn
ygtizoutkj he znk kdvkxoktik ul uznkx iuatzxoky, cgy ktzoxkre tkc ot znk
Atozkj Yzgzky, gtj oy yayikvzohrk ul osvxubksktz ot yusk ul ozy vxuboyouty.
Znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe, avut cnus cgy jkburbkj rgxmk joyixkzoutgxe
vuckxy ot igxxeotm znoy skgyaxk otzu kllkiz, ngy iurrkizkj gtj oy tuc
iurrgzotm znk vxgizoigr xkyarzy ul znk yeyzks ot uznkx iuatzxoky cnkxk oz
ngy rutm hkkt kyzghroynkj, gtj corr xkvuxz gz gt kgxre vkxouj ul euax
ykyyout yain laxznkx xkmargzouty yammkyzkj he znk otbkyzomgzout gy sge
xktjkx oz yzorr suxk kllkizobk gtj hktkloiogr.

He znk giz zu "vxubojk lux znk hkzzkx uxmgtofgzout ul znk Zxkgyaxe gtj lux
znk iurrkizout, yglk-qkkvotm, gtj joyhaxyksktz ul znk vahroi xkbktak" grr
hgtqy ckxk joyiutzotakj gy loyigr gmktzy ul znk Mubkxtsktz, gtj znk vgvkx
iaxxktie oyyakj he znks cgy tu rutmkx vkxsozzkj zu hk xkikobkj ot vgesktz
ul vahroi jaky. Znk iutyzozazoutgr zxkgyaxe ixkgzkj he znoy giz cktz otzu
uvkxgzout ut znk 1yz ul Pgtagxe rgyz. Atjkx znk yeyzks kyzghroynkj he oz
znk vahroi sutkey ngbk hkkt iurrkizkj, yglkre qkvz, gtj joyhaxykj he znk
joxkiz gmktie ul ulloikxy ul znk Mubkxtsktz ot murj gtj yorbkx, gtj
zxgtylkxy ul rgxmk gsuatzy ngbk hkkt sgjk lxus vuotzy ul iurrkizout zu
vuotzy ul joyhaxyksktz coznuaz ruyy zu znk Zxkgyaxe ux otpaxe ux
otiutbktoktik zu znk zxgjk ul znk iuatzxe.

Cnork znk loyigr uvkxgzouty ul znk Mubkxtsktz ngbk hkkt iutjaizkj cozn
xkmargxoze gtj kgyk atjkx znoy yeyzks, oz ngy ngj g ygrazgxe kllkiz ot
inkiqotm gtj vxkbktzotm gt atjak otlrgzout ul znk vgvkx iaxxktie oyyakj he
znk hgtqy cnoin kdoyz atjkx Yzgzk ingxzkxy. Xkwaoxotm, gy oz juky, grr jaky
zu znk Mubkxtsktz zu hk vgoj ot murj gtj yorbkx, ozy kllkiz oy zu xkyzxgot
kdikyyobk oyyaky ul hgtq vgvkx he znk hgtqy joyvxuvuxzoutkj zu znk yvkiok
ot znkox bgarzy, lux znk xkgyut zngz znke gxk gz grr zosky roghrk zu hk
igrrkj ut he znk nurjkxy ul znkox tuzky lux znkox xkjksvzout ot uxjkx zu
uhzgot yvkiok lux znk vgesktz ul jazoky gtj uznkx vahroi jaky. Znk hgtqy,
znkxkluxk, sayz qkkv znkox hayotkyy coznot vxajktz rosozy, gtj hk grcgey ot
g iutjozout zu skkz yain igrry, ux xat znk ngfgxj ul hkotm iusvkrrkj zu
yayvktj yvkiok vgesktzy gtj hk znkxkhe joyixkjozkj. Znk gsuatz ul yvkiok
osvuxzkj otzu znk Atozkj Yzgzky jaxotm znk rgyz loyigr ekgx cgy
$24,121,289, ul cnoin znkxk cgy xkzgotkj ot znk iuatzxe $22,276,170. Ngj
znk luxskx lotgtiogr yeyzks vxkbgorkj gtj znk vahroi sutkey hkkt vrgikj ut
jkvuyoz ot znk hgtqy, tkgxre znk cnurk ul znoy gsuatz cuarj ngbk mutk otzu
znkox bgarzy, tuz zu hk znxuct otzu ioxiargzout he znks, haz zu hk coznnkrj
lxus znk ngtjy ul znk vkuvrk gy g iaxxktie gtj sgjk znk hgyoy ul tkc gtj
ktuxsuay oyyaky ul hgtq vgvkx. G rgxmk vxuvuxzout ul znk yvkiok osvuxzkj
ngy hkkt vgoj otzu znk Zxkgyaxe lux vahroi jaky, gtj glzkx ngbotm hkkt zu g
mxkgz kdzktz xkiuotkj gz znk Sotz ngy hkkt vgoj uaz zu znk vahroi ixkjozuxy
gtj mutk otzu ioxiargzout gy g iaxxktie gsutm znk vkuvrk. Znk gsuatz ul
murj gtj yorbkx iuot tuc ot ioxiargzout ot znk iuatzxe oy rgxmkx zngt gz
gte luxskx vkxouj.

Znk lotgtiogr yeyzks kyzghroynkj he znk iutyzozazoutgr zxkgyaxe ngy hkkt
znay lgx ksotktzre yaiikyylar ot ozy uvkxgzouty, gtj O xkiussktj gt
gjnkxktik zu grr ozy kyyktzogr vxuboyouty, gtj kyvkiogrre zu zngz bozgr
vxuboyout cnoin cnurre ykvgxgzky znk Mubkxtsktz lxus grr iuttkizout cozn
hgtqy gtj kdirajky hgtq vgvkx lxus grr xkbktak xkikovzy.

Ot yusk ul ozy jkzgory, tuz otburbotm ozy mktkxgr vxotiovrky, znk yeyzks oy
jklkizobk gtj corr xkwaoxk sujoloigzout. Znkyk jklkizy gtj yain gsktjsktzy
gy gxk jkkskj osvuxzgtz ckxk ykz luxzn ot znk rgyz gttagr xkvuxz ul znk
Ykixkzgxe ul znk Zxkgyaxe. Znkyk gsktjsktzy gxk gmgot xkiussktjkj zu znk
kgxre gtj lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout ul Iutmxkyy.

Jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx znk iuotgmk gz znk Sotz gtj ozy hxgtinky ngy kdikkjkj
$20,000,000. Znoy ngy iutyoyzkj inoklre ot iutbkxzotm znk iuoty ul luxkomt
iuatzxoky otzu Gskxoigt iuot.

Znk rgxmkyz gsuatz ul luxkomt iuot osvuxzkj ngy hkkt xkikobkj gz Tkc Euxq,
gtj ol g hxgtin sotz ckxk kyzghroynkj gz zngz ioze grr znk luxkomt iuot
xkikobkj gz zngz vuxz iuarj gz utik hk iutbkxzkj otzu uax uct iuot coznuaz
znk kdvktyk, xoyq, gtj jkrge ul zxgtyvuxzotm oz zu znk Sotz lux zngz
vaxvuyk, gtj znk gsuatz xkiuotkj cuarj hk sain rgxmkx.

Kdvkxoktik ngy vxubkj zngz luxkomt iuot, gtj kyvkiogrre luxkomt murj iuot,
corr tuz ioxiargzk kdzktyobkre gy g iaxxktie gsutm znk vkuvrk. Znk
osvuxzgtz skgyaxk ul kdzktjotm uax yvkiok ioxiargzout, huzn ul murj gtj
yorbkx, gtj ul jollayotm oz gsutm znk vkuvrk igt utre hk kllkizkj he
iutbkxzotm yain luxkomt iuot otzu Gskxoigt iuot. O xkvkgz znk
xkiussktjgzout iutzgotkj ot se rgyz gttagr skyygmk lux znk kyzghroynsktz ul
g hxgtin ul znk Sotz ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gz znk ioze ul Tkc Euxq.

Grr znk vahroi rgtjy cnoin ngj hkkt yaxbkekj gtj ckxk xkgje lux sgxqkz ngbk
hkkt vxuirgoskj lux ygrk jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx. Znk wagtzoze ullkxkj gtj zu
hk ullkxkj lux ygrk atjkx vxuirgsgzouty oyyakj yotik znk 1yz ul Pgtagxe
rgyz gsuatzy zu 9,138,531 gixky. Znk vxuyvkxoze ul znk Ckyzkxt Yzgzky gtj
Zkxxozuxoky ot cnoin znkyk rgtjy rok corr hk gjbgtikj he znkox yvkkje ygrk.
He coznnurjotm znks lxus sgxqkz znkox mxuczn gtj otixkgyk ul vuvargzout
cuarj hk xkzgxjkj, cnork znuaygtjy ul uax ktzkxvxoyotm gtj skxozuxouay
lxutzokx vuvargzout cuarj hk jkvxobkj ul znk uvvuxzatoze ul ykiaxotm
lxkknurjy lux znksykrbky gtj znkox lgsoroky. Haz ot gjjozout zu znk mktkxgr
iutyojkxgzouty cnoin xktjkxkj znk kgxre ygrk ul znkyk rgtjy vxuvkx, oz cgy
g rkgjotm uhpkiz gz znoy zosk zu jkxobk gy rgxmk g yas gy vuyyohrk lxus
znoy yuaxik, gtj znay josotoyn he zngz gsuatz znk vahroi rugt xktjkxkj
tkikyygxe he znk kdoyzktik ul g luxkomt cgx.

Oz oy kyzosgzkj zngz tuz rkyy zngt 10,000,000 gixky ul znk vahroi rgtjy
corr hk yaxbkekj gtj hk ot g iutjozout zu hk vxuirgoskj lux ygrk jaxotm znk
ekgx 1848.

Ot se rgyz gttagr skyygmk O vxkyktzkj znk xkgyuty cnoin ot se pajmsktz
xktjkxkj oz vxuvkx zu mxgjagzk gtj xkjaik znk vxoik ul yain ul znk vahroi
rgtjy gy ngbk xksgotkj atyurj lux rutm vkxoujy glzkx znke ngj hkkt ullkxkj
lux ygrk gz vahroi gaizout.

Sgte sorrouty ul gixky ul vahroi rgtjy reotm coznot znk rosozy ul ykbkxgr
ul znk Ckyzkxt Yzgzky ngbk hkkt ullkxkj ot znk sgxqkz gtj hkkt yahpkiz zu
ygrk gz vxobgzk ktzxe lux suxk zngt zcktze ekgxy gtj rgxmk wagtzozoky lux
suxk zngt znoxze ekgxy gz znk ruckyz vxoik vxkyixohkj he znk kdoyzotm rgcy,
gtj oz ngy hkkt luatj zngz znke corr tuz iussgtj zngz vxoik. Znke sayz
xksgot atyurj gtj atiarzobgzkj lux gt otjklotozk vkxouj atrkyy znk vxoik
jksgtjkj lux znks he znk Mubkxtsktz yngrr hk xkjaikj. Tu ygzoylgizuxe
xkgyut oy vkxikobkj cne znke ynuarj hk rutmkx nkrj gz xgzky ghubk znkox
xkgr bgrak. Gz znk vxkyktz vkxouj gt gjjozoutgr xkgyut kdoyzy lux gjuvzotm
znk skgyaxk xkiussktjkj. Cnkt znk iuatzxe oy ktmgmkj ot g luxkomt cgx, gtj
ck sayz tkikyygxore xkyuxz zu rugty, oz cuarj ykks zu hk znk joizgzk ul
coyjus zngz ck ynuarj gbgor uaxykrbky ul grr uax xkyuaxiky gtj znay rosoz
znk gsuatz ul znk vahroi otjkhzkjtkyy zu znk ruckyz vuyyohrk yas.

O xkiussktj zngz znk kdoyzotm rgcy ut znk yahpkiz ul vxkksvzout xomnzy hk
gsktjkj gtj sujolokj yu gy zu uvkxgzk vxuyvkizobkre gtj zu kshxgik grr cnu
sge ykzzrk avut znk vahroi rgtjy gtj sgqk osvxubksktzy avut znks, hkluxk
znke gxk yaxbkekj gy ckrr gy glzkxcgxjy, ot grr igyky cnkxk yain
ykzzrksktzy sge hk sgjk glzkx znk Otjogt zozrk yngrr ngbk hkkt
kdzotmaoynkj.

Ol znk xomnz ul vxkksvzout hk znay kdzktjkj, oz corr kshxgik g rgxmk gtj
skxozuxouay irgyy ul uax iozofkty. Oz corr otixkgyk znk tashkx ul ysgrr
lxkknurjkxy avut uax huxjkxy, cnu corr hk ktghrkj znkxkhe zu kjaigzk znkox
inorjxkt gtj uznkxcoyk osvxubk znkox iutjozout, cnork znke corr hk luatj gz
grr zosky, gy znke ngbk kbkx vxubkj znksykrbky zu hk ot znk nuax ul jgtmkx
zu znkox iuatzxe, gsutm uax ngxjokyz gtj hkyz buratzkkx yurjokxy, kbkx
xkgje zu gzzktj zu znkox ykxboiky ot igyky ul kskxmktioky gtj gsutm znk
rgyz zu rkgbk znk lokrj gy rutm gy gt ktkse xksgoty zu hk ktiuatzkxkj. Yain
g vuroie corr gryu osvxkyy znkyk vgzxouzoi voutkkx ksomxgtzy cozn jkkvkx
lkkrotmy ul mxgzozajk lux znk vgxktzgr igxk ul znkox Mubkxtsktz, cnkt znke
lotj znkox jkgxkyz otzkxkyzy ykiaxkj zu znks he znk vkxsgtktz rgcy ul znk
rgtj gtj zngz znke gxk tu rutmkx ot jgtmkx ul ruyotm znkox nusky gtj
ngxj-kgxtkj osvxubksktzy he hkotm hxuamnz otzu iusvkzozout cozn g suxk
ckgrzne irgyy ul vaxingykxy gz znk rgtj ygrky. Znk gzzktzout ul Iutmxkyy
cgy otbozkj gz znkox rgyz gtj znk vxkikjotm ykyyout zu znk osvuxzgtik ul
kyzghroynotm g Zkxxozuxogr mubkxtsktz ubkx uax vuyykyyouty ot Uxkmut, gtj
oz oy zu hk xkmxkzzkj zngz znkxk cgy tu rkmoyrgzout ut znk yahpkiz. Uax
iozofkty cnu otnghoz zngz joyzgtz xkmout ul iuatzxe gxk yzorr rklz coznuaz
znk vxuzkizout ul uax rgcy, ux gte xkmargxre uxmgtofkj mubkxtsktz. Hkluxk
znk wakyzout ul rosozy gtj huatjgxoky ul znk Zkxxozuxe ul Uxkmut cgy
jklotozkre ykzzrkj, lxus znk tkikyyoze ul znkox iutjozout znk otnghozgtzy
ngj kyzghroynkj g zksvuxgxe mubkxtsktz ul znkox uct. Hkyojky znk cgtz ul
rkmgr gaznuxoze lux iutzotaotm yain g mubkxtsktz, oz oy cnurre otgjkwagzk
zu vxuzkiz znks ot znkox xomnzy ul vkxyut gtj vxuvkxze, ux zu ykiaxk zu
znks znk ktpuesktz ul znk vxoborkmky ul uznkx iozofkty, zu cnoin znke gxk
ktzozrkj atjkx znk Iutyzozazout ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Znke ynuarj ngbk znk
xomnz ul yallxgmk, hk xkvxkyktzkj ot g Zkxxozuxogr rkmoyrgzaxk gtj he g
Jkrkmgzk ot Iutmxkyy, gtj vuyykyy grr znk xomnzy gtj vxoborkmky cnoin
iozofkty ul uznkx vuxzouty ul znk zkxxozuxoky ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky ngbk
nkxkzuluxk ktpuekj ux sge tuc ktpue.

Uax pajoiogr yeyzks, xkbktak rgcy, rgcy xkmargzotm zxgjk gtj otzkxiuaxyk
cozn znk Otjogt zxohky, gtj znk vxuzkizout ul uax rgcy mktkxgrre ynuarj hk
kdzktjkj ubkx znks.

Ot gjjozout zu znk otnghozgtzy ot zngz Zkxxozuxe cnu ngj vxkbouayre
ksomxgzkj zu oz, rgxmk tashkxy ul uax iozofkty ngbk lurruckj znks jaxotm
znk vxkyktz ekgx, gtj oz oy tuz juahzkj zngz jaxotm znk tkdz gtj yahykwaktz
ekgxy znkox tashkxy corr hk mxkgzre otixkgykj.

Iutmxkyy gz ozy rgyz ykyyout kyzghroynkj vuyz xuazky rkgjotm zu Uxkmut, gtj
hkzckkt jollkxktz vuotzy coznot zngz Zkxxozuxe, gtj gaznuxofkj znk
kyzghroynsktz ul vuyz-ulloiky gz "Gyzuxog gtj yain uznkx vrgiky ut znk
iugyzy ul znk Vgioloi coznot znk zkxxozuxe ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gy znk
vahroi otzkxkyzy sge xkwaoxk." Vuyz-ulloiky ngbk giiuxjotmre hkkt
kyzghroynkj, jkvaze vuyzsgyzkxy gvvuotzkj, gtj vxuboyout sgjk lux znk
zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgory.

Znk vxkykxbgzout ul vkgik cozn znk Otjogt zxohky xkyojotm ckyz ul znk Xuiqe
Suatzgoty corr xktjkx oz vxuvkx zngz gaznuxoze ynuarj hk mobkt he rgc lux
znk gvvuotzsktz ul gt gjkwagzk tashkx ul Otjogt gmktzy zu xkyojk gsutm
znks.

O xkiussktj zngz g yaxbkeux-mktkxgr'y ulloik hk kyzghroynkj ot zngz
Zkxxozuxe, gtj zngz znk vahroi rgtjy hk yaxbkekj gtj hxuamnz otzu sgxqkz gz
gt kgxre vkxouj.

O xkiussktj gryu zngz mxgtzy, avut rohkxgr zkxsy, ul rosozkj wagtzozoky ul
znk vahroi rgtjy hk sgjk zu grr iozofkty ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky cnu ngbk
ksomxgzkj, ux sge nkxkglzkx coznot g vxkyixohkj vkxouj ksomxgzk, zu Uxkmut
gtj ykzzrk avut znks. Znkyk ngxje gtj gjbktzaxuay iozofkty, cnu ngbk
ktiuatzkxkj znk jgtmkxy gtj vxobgzouty ul g rutm gtj zuoryusk puaxtke, gtj
ngbk gz rktmzn luatj gt ghojotm vrgik lux znksykrbky gtj znkox lgsoroky
avut znk azsuyz bkxmk ul uax ckyzkxt rosozy, ynuarj hk ykiaxkj ot znk nusky
cnoin znke ngbk osvxubkj he znkox rghux. O xklkx eua zu znk giiusvgteotm
xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul Cgx lux g jkzgorkj giiuatz ul znk uvkxgzouty ul
znk bgxouay hxgtinky ul znk vahroi ykxboik iuttkizkj cozn znk Jkvgxzsktz
atjkx noy ingxmk. Znk jazoky jkburbotm ut znoy Jkvgxzsktz ngbk hkkt
atayagrre utkxuay gtj xkyvutyohrk jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx, gtj ngbk hkkt
joyingxmkj cozn ghoroze gtj yaiikyy.

Vgioloi xkrgzouty iutzotak zu kdoyz cozn znk bgxouay Otjogt zxohky, gtj
suyz ul znks sgtolkyz g yzxutm lxoktjynov lux znk Atozkj Yzgzky. Yusk
jkvxkjgzouty ckxk iussozzkj jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx avut uax zxgoty
zxgtyvuxzotm yavvroky lux znk Gxse, ut znk xugj hkzckkt znk ckyzkxt huxjkx
ul Soyyuaxo gtj Ygtzg Lk. Znkyk jkvxkjgzouty, cnoin gxk yavvuykj zu ngbk
hkkt iussozzkj he hgtjy lxus znk xkmout ul Tkc Skdoiu, ngbk hkkt gxxkyzkj
he znk vxkyktik ul g sorozgxe luxik uxjkxkj uaz lux zngz vaxvuyk. Yusk
uazxgmky ngbk hkkt vkxvkzxgzkj he g vuxzout ul znk tuxznckyzkxt hgtjy avut
znk ckgqkx gtj iusvgxgzobkre jklktykrkyy tkomnhuxotm zxohky. Vxusvz
skgyaxky ckxk zgqkt zu vxkbktz yain uiiaxxktiky ot lazaxk.

Hkzckkt 1,000 gtj 2,000 Otjogty, hkrutmotm zu ykbkxgr zxohky, ngbk hkkt
xksubkj jaxotm znk ekgx lxus znk kgyz ul znk Soyyoyyovvo zu znk iuatzxe
grruzzkj zu znks ckyz ul zngz xobkx gy znkox vkxsgtktz nusk, gtj
gxxgtmksktzy ngbk hkkt sgjk lux uznkxy zu lurruc.

Yotik znk zxkgze ul 1846 cozn znk Inkxuqkky znk lkajy gsutm znks gvvkgx zu
ngbk yahyojkj, gtj znke ngbk hkiusk suxk atozkj gtj iutzktzkj zngt znke
ngbk hkkt lux sgte ekgxy vgyz. Znk iussoyyoutkxy gvvuotzkj ot vaxyagtik ul
znk giz ul Patk 27, 1846, zu ykzzrk irgosy gxoyotm atjkx znk zxkgze ul
1835-36 cozn zngz zxohk ngbk kdkiazkj znkox jazoky, gtj glzkx g vgzoktz
otbkyzomgzout gtj g larr gtj lgox kdgsotgzout ul grr znk igyky hxuamnz
hkluxk znks iruykj znkox rghuxy ot znk sutzn ul Pare rgyz. Znoy oy znk
luaxzn hugxj ul iussoyyoutkxy cnoin ngy hkkt uxmgtofkj atjkx znoy zxkgze.
Gsvrk uvvuxzatoze ngy hkkt glluxjkj zu grr znuyk otzkxkyzkj zu hxotm
luxcgxj znkox irgosy. Tu juahz oy ktzkxzgotkj zngz osvgxzogr payzoik ngy
hkkt jutk he znk rgzk hugxj, gtj zngz grr bgroj irgosy kshxgikj he znk
zxkgze ngbk hkkt iutyojkxkj gtj grruckj. Znoy xkyarz gtj znk lotgr
ykzzrksktz zu hk sgjk cozn znoy zxohk atjkx znk zxkgze ul 1846, cnoin corr
hk iusvrkzkj gtj rgoj hkluxk eua jaxotm euax ykyyout, corr gjpayz grr
wakyzouty ul iutzxubkxye hkzckkt znks gtj znk Atozkj Yzgzky gtj vxujaik g
yzgzk ul xkrgzouty cozn znks yosvrk, ckrr jklotkj, gtj ygzoylgizuxe. Atjkx
znk joyixkzoutgxe gaznuxoze iutlkxxkj he znk giz ul znk 3j ul Sgxin rgyz
znk gttaozoky jak zu znk bgxouay zxohky ngbk hkkt vgoj jaxotm znk vxkyktz
ekgx zu znk nkgjy ul lgsoroky otyzkgj ul zu znkox inokly ux yain vkxyuty gy
znke somnz jkyomtgzk, gy xkwaoxkj he znk rgc vxkbouayre kdoyzotm. Znoy sujk
ul vgesktz ngy mobkt mktkxgr ygzoylgizout zu znk mxkgz huje ul znk Otjogty.
Payzoik ngy hkkt jutk zu znks, gtj znke gxk mxgzklar zu znk Mubkxtsktz lux
oz. G lkc inokly gtj otzkxkyzkj vkxyuty sge uhpkiz zu znoy sujk ul vgesktz,
haz oz oy hkrokbkj zu hk znk utre sujk ul vxkbktzotm lxgaj gtj osvuyozout
lxus hkotm vxgizoikj avut znk mxkgz huje ul iussut Otjogty, iutyzozazotm g
sgpuxoze ul grr znk zxohky. Oz oy mxgzoleotm zu vkxikobk zngz g tashkx ul
znk zxohky ngbk xkiktzre sgtolkyzkj gt otixkgykj otzkxkyz ot znk
kyzghroynsktz ul yinuury gsutm znks, gtj gxk sgqotm xgvoj gjbgtiky ot
gmxoiarzaxk, yusk ul znks vxujaiotm g yalloioktz wagtzoze ul luuj lux znkox
yavvuxz gtj ot yusk igyky g yaxvray zu joyvuyk ul zu znkox tkomnhuxy. Znk
iusluxzy he cnoin znuyk cnu ngbk xkikobkj kbkt g bkxe rosozkj kjaigzout gtj
ngbk ktmgmkj ot gmxoiarzaxk gxk yaxxuatjkj zktj mxgjagrre zu jxgc ull znkox
rkyy ioborofkj hxkznxkt lxus znk vxkigxouay skgty ul yahyoyzktik he znk
ingyk zu nghozy ul rghux gtj ioborofgzout.

Znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe vxkyktzy g
ygzoylgizuxe gtj mxgzoleotm giiuatz ul znk iutjozout gtj uvkxgzouty ul znk
tgbgr ykxboik jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx. Uax iusskxik ngy hkkt vaxyakj cozn
otixkgykj gizoboze gtj cozn yglkze gtj yaiikyy ot kbkxe wagxzkx ul znk
mruhk atjkx znk vxuzkizout ul uax lrgm, cnoin znk Tgbe ngy igaykj zu hk
xkyvkizkj ot znk suyz joyzgtz ykgy.

Ot znk Marl ul Skdoiu gtj ot znk Vgioloi znk ulloikxy gtj skt ul uax
ywagjxuty ngbk joyvrgekj joyzotmaoynkj mgrrgtzxe gtj vkxluxskj bgraghrk
ykxboiky. Ot znk kgxre yzgmky ul znk cgx cozn Skdoiu nkx vuxzy ut huzn
iugyzy ckxk hruiqgjkj, gtj suxk xkiktzre sgte ul znks ngbk hkkt igvzaxkj
gtj nkrj he znk Tgbe. Cnkt gizotm ot iuuvkxgzout cozn znk rgtj luxiky, znk
tgbgr ulloikxy gtj skt ngbk vkxluxskj mgrrgtz gtj joyzotmaoynkj ykxboiky ut
rgtj gy ckrr gy ut cgzkx, gtj jkykxbk znk nomn iussktjgzout ul znk
iuatzxe.

Cnork uznkx sgxozosk vuckxy gxk gjjotm zu znkox tgboky rgxmk tashkxy ul cgx
yzkgskxy, oz cgy g coyk vuroie ut uax vgxz zu sgqk yosorgx gjjozouty zu uax
Tgbe. Znk luax cgx yzkgskxy gaznuxofkj he znk giz ul znk 3j ul Sgxin, 1847,
gxk ot iuaxyk ul iutyzxaizout.

Ot gjjozout zu znk luax cgx yzkgskxy gaznuxofkj he znoy giz, znk Ykixkzgxe
ul znk Tgbe ngy, ot vaxyagtik ul ozy vxuboyouty, ktzkxkj otzu iutzxgizy lux
znk iutyzxaizout ul lobk yzkgskxy zu hk ksvruekj ot znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul
znk Atozkj Yzgzky sgor "lxus Tkc Euxq zu Tkc Uxrkgty, zuainotm gz
Ingxrkyzut, Ygbgttgn, gtj Ngbgtg, gtj lxus Ngbgtg zu Ingmxky;" lux znxkk
yzkgskxy zu hk ksvruekj ot roqk sgttkx lxus Vgtgsg zu Uxkmut, "yu gy zu
iuttkiz cozn znk sgor lxus Ngbgtg zu Ingmxky gixuyy znk Oyznsay;" gtj lux
lobk yzkgskxy zu hk ksvruekj ot roqk sgttkx lxus Tkc Euxq zu Robkxvuur.
Znkyk yzkgskxy corr hk znk vxuvkxze ul znk iutzxgizuxy, haz gxk zu hk haorz
"atjkx znk yavkxotzktjktik gtj joxkizout ul g tgbgr iutyzxaizux ot znk
ksvrue ul znk Tgbe Jkvgxzsktz, gtj zu hk yu iutyzxaizkj gy zu xktjkx znks
iutbkxzohrk gz znk rkgyz vuyyohrk kdvktyk otzu cgx yzkgskxy ul znk loxyz
irgyy." G vxkyixohkj tashkx ul tgbgr ulloikxy, gy ckrr gy g vuyz-ulloik
gmktz, gxk zu hk ut hugxj ul znks, gtj gaznuxoze oy xkykxbkj zu znk Tgbe
Jkvgxzsktz gz grr zosky zu "kdkxioyk iutzxur ubkx ygoj yzkgsynovy" gtj "zu
ngbk znk xomnz zu zgqk znks lux znk kdirayobk ayk gtj ykxboik ul znk Atozkj
Yzgzky avut sgqotm vxuvkx iusvktygzout zu znk iutzxgizuxy znkxklux."

Cnoryz znkyk yzkgsynovy corr hk ksvruekj ot zxgtyvuxzotm znk sgory ul znk
Atozkj Yzgzky iugyzcoyk gtj zu luxkomt iuatzxoky avut gt gttagr
iusvktygzout zu hk vgoj zu znk uctkxy, znke corr hk grcgey xkgje, avut gt
kskxmktie xkwaoxotm oz, zu hk iutbkxzkj otzu cgx yzkgskxy; gtj znk xomnz
xkykxbkj zu zgqk znks lux vahroi ayk corr gjj mxkgzre zu znk klloioktie gtj
yzxktmzn ul znoy jkyixovzout ul uax tgbgr luxik. Zu znk yzkgskxy znay
gaznuxofkj atjkx iutzxgizy sgjk he znk Ykixkzgxe ul znk Tgbe ynuarj hk
gjjkj lobk uznkx yzkgskxy gaznuxofkj atjkx iutzxgizy sgjk ot vaxyagtik ul
rgcy he znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr, sgqotm gt gjjozout, ot znk cnurk, ul
komnzkkt cgx yzkgskxy yahpkiz zu hk zgqkt lux vahroi ayk. Gy laxznkx
iutzxgizy lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgor zu luxkomt iuatzxoky sge hk
gaznuxofkj he Iutmxkyy, znoy tashkx sge hk ktrgxmkj otjklotozkre.

Znk ktromnzktkj vuroie he cnoin g xgvoj iussatoigzout cozn znk bgxouay
joyzgtz vgxzy ul znk mruhk oy kyzghroynkj, he skgty ul Gskxoigt haorz ykg
yzkgskxy, cuarj lotj gt gsvrk xkcgxj ot znk otixkgyk ul uax iusskxik gtj ot
sgqotm uax iuatzxe gtj ozy xkyuaxiky suxk lgbuxghre qtuct ghxugj; haz znk
tgzoutgr gjbgtzgmk oy yzorr mxkgzkx--ul ngbotm uax tgbgr ulloikxy sgjk
lgsorogx cozn yzkgs tgbomgzout gtj ul ngbotm znk vxoborkmk ul zgqotm znk
ynovy grxkgje kwaovvkj lux osskjogzk ykxboik gz g susktz'y tuzoik, gtj corr
hk inkgvre vaxingykj he znk iusvktygzout zu hk vgoj lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout
ul znk sgor ot znks ubkx gtj ghubk znk vuyzgmky xkikobkj.

G payz tgzoutgr vxojk, tu rkyy zngt uax iusskxiogr otzkxkyzy, cuarj Ykks zu
lgbux znk vuroie ul gamsktzotm znk tashkx ul znoy jkyixovzout ul bkyykry.
Znke igt hk haorz ot uax iuatzxe inkgvkx gtj ot mxkgzkx tashkxy zngt ot gte
uznkx ot znk cuxrj.

O xklkx eua zu znk giiusvgteotm xkvuxz ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr lux g
jkzgorkj gtj ygzoylgizuxe giiuatz ul znk iutjozout gtj uvkxgzouty ul zngz
Jkvgxzsktz jaxotm znk vgyz ekgx. Oz oy mxgzoleotm zu lotj zngz coznot yu
ynuxz g vkxouj glzkx znk xkjaizout ot znk xgzky ul vuyzgmk, gtj
tuzcoznyzgtjotm znk mxkgz otixkgyk ul sgor ykxboik, znk xkbktak xkikobkj
lux znk ekgx corr hk yalloioktz zu jklxge grr znk kdvktyky, gtj zngz tu
laxznkx goj corr hk xkwaoxkj lxus znk Zxkgyaxe lux zngz vaxvuyk.

Znk loxyz ul znk Gskxoigt sgor yzkgskxy gaznuxofkj he znk giz ul znk 3j ul
Sgxin, 1845, cgy iusvrkzkj gtj ktzkxkj avut znk ykxboik ut znk 1yz ul Patk
rgyz, gtj oy tuc ut nkx znoxj buegmk zu Hxkskt gtj uznkx otzkxskjogzk
vuxzy. Znk uznkx bkyykry gaznuxofkj atjkx znk vxuboyouty ul zngz giz gxk ot
iuaxyk ul iutyzxaizout, gtj corr hk vaz avut znk rotk gy yuut gy iusvrkzkj.
Iutzxgizy ngbk gryu hkkt sgjk lux znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul znk sgor ot g
yzkgskx lxus Ingxrkyzut zu Ngbgtg.

G xkiovxuigr gtj ygzoylgizuxe vuyzgr gxxgtmksktz ngy hkkt sgjk he znk
Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr cozn znk gaznuxozoky ul Hxkskt, gtj tu jolloiarze oy
gvvxknktjkj ot sgqotm yosorgx gxxgtmksktzy cozn grr uznkx vuckxy cozn cnoin
ck sge ngbk iussatoigzouty he sgor yzkgskxy, kdikvz cozn Mxkgz Hxozgot.

Ut znk gxxobgr ul znk loxyz ul znk Gskxoigt yzkgskxy huatj zu Hxkskt gz
Yuazngsvzut, ot znk sutzn ul Patk rgyz, znk Hxozoyn vuyz-ulloik joxkizkj
znk iurrkizout ul joyixosotgzotm vuyzgmky ut grr rkzzkxy gtj uznkx sgorghrk
sgzzkx cnoin ynk zuuq uaz zu Mxkgz Hxozgot ux cnoin cktz otzu znk Hxozoyn
vuyz-ulloik ut znkox cge zu Lxgtik gtj uznkx vgxzy ul Kaxuvk. Znk kllkiz ul
znk uxjkx ul znk Hxozoyn, vuyz-ulloik oy zu yahpkiz grr rkzzkxy gtj uznkx
sgzzkx zxgtyvuxzkj he Gskxoigt yzkgskxy zu juahrk vuyzgmk, utk vuyzgmk
ngbotm hkkt vxkbouayre vgoj ut znks zu znk Atozkj Yzgzky, cnork rkzzkxy
zxgtyvuxzkj ot Hxozoyn yzkgskxy gxk yahpkiz zu vge haz g yotmrk vuyzgmk.
Znoy skgyaxk cgy gjuvzkj cozn znk gbuckj uhpkiz ul vxuzkizotm znk Hxozoyn
rotk ul sgor yzkgskxy tuc xattotm hkzckkt Huyzut gtj Robkxvuur, gtj ol
vkxsozzkj zu Iutzotak sayz yvkkjore vaz gt ktj zu znk zxgtyvuxzgzout ul grr
rkzzkxy gtj uznkx sgzzkx he Gskxoigt yzkgskxy gtj mobk zu Hxozoyn yzkgskxy
g sutuvure ul znk hayotkyy. G payz gtj lgox xkiovxuioze oy grr zngz ck
jkyoxk, gtj ut znoy ck sayz otyoyz. He uax rgcy tu yain joyixosotgzout oy
sgjk gmgotyz Hxozoyn yzkgskxy hxotmotm rkzzkxy otzu uax vuxzy, haz grr
rkzzkxy gxxobotm ot znk Atozkj Yzgzky gxk yahpkiz zu znk ygsk xgzk ul
vuyzgmk, cnkznkx hxuamnz ot Hxozoyn ux Gskxoigt bkyykry. O xklkx eua zu znk
xkvuxz ul znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr lux g larr yzgzksktz ul znk lgizy ul znk
igyk gtj ul znk yzkvy zgqkt he nos zu iuxxkiz znoy otkwagroze. Nk ngy
kdkxzkj grr znk vuckx iutlkxxkj avut nos he znk kdoyzotm rgcy.

Znk sotoyzkx ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky gz Rutjut ngy hxuamnz znk yahpkiz zu znk
gzzktzout ul znk Hxozoyn Mubkxtsktz, gtj oy tuc ktmgmkj ot tkmuzogzouty lux
znk vaxvuyk ul gjpayzotm xkiovxuigr vuyzgr gxxgtmksktzy cnoin yngrr hk
kwagrre payz zu huzn iuatzxoky. Ynuarj nk lgor ot iutirajotm yain
gxxgtmksktzy, gtj ynuarj Mxkgz Hxozgot otyoyz ut ktluxiotm znk atkwagr gtj
atpayz skgyaxk ynk ngy gjuvzkj, oz corr hkiusk tkikyygxe zu iutlkx
gjjozoutgr vuckxy ut znk Vuyzsgyzkx-Mktkxgr ot uxjkx zu ktghrk nos zu skkz
znk kskxmktie gtj zu vaz uax uct yzkgskxy ut gt kwagr luuzotm cozn Hxozoyn
yzkgskxy ktmgmkj ot zxgtyvuxzotm znk sgory hkzckkt znk zcu iuatzxoky, gtj O
xkiussktj zngz yain vuckxy hk iutlkxxkj. Ot bokc ul znk kdoyzotm yzgzk ul
uax iuatzxe, O zxayz oz sge tuz hk otgvvxuvxogzk, ot iruyotm znoy
iussatoigzout, zu igrr zu sotj znk cuxjy ul coyjus gtj gjsutozout ul znk
loxyz gtj suyz orrayzxouay ul se vxkjkikyyuxy ot noy Lgxkckrr Gjjxkyy zu
noy iuatzxeskt.

Zngz mxkgzkyz gtj hkyz ul skt, cnu ykxbkj noy iuatzxe yu rutm gtj rubkj oz
yu sain, luxkygc cozn "ykxouay iutikxt" znk jgtmkx zu uax Atout ul
"ingxgizkxofotm vgxzoky he mkumxgvnoigr joyixosotgzouty--Tuxznkxt gtj
Yuaznkxt, Gzrgtzoi gtj Ckyzkxt--cnktik jkyomtotm skt sge ktjkgbux zu kdiozk
g hkrokl zngz znkxk oy g xkgr jollkxktik ul ruigr otzkxkyzy gtj bokcy," gtj
cgxtkj noy iuatzxeskt gmgotyz oz.

Yu jkkv gtj yurkst cgy noy iutboizout ul znk osvuxzgtik ul znk Atout gtj ul
vxkykxbotm ngxsute hkzckkt ozy jollkxktz vgxzy, zngz nk jkirgxkj zu noy
iuatzxeskt ot zngz gjjxkyy:

Oz oy ul otlotozk susktz zngz eua ynuarj vxuvkxre kyzosgzk znk ossktyk
bgrak ul euax tgzoutgr atout zu euax iurrkizobk gtj otjobojagr ngvvotkyy;
zngz eua ynuarj inkxoyn g iuxjogr, nghozagr, gtj ossubghrk gzzginsktz zu
oz; giiayzusotm euaxykrbky zu znotq gtj yvkgq ul oz gy ul znk vgrrgjoas ul
euax vurozoigr yglkze gtj vxuyvkxoze; cgzinotm lux ozy vxkykxbgzout cozn
pkgruay gtdokze; joyiuatzktgtiotm cngzkbkx sge yammkyz kbkt g yayvoiout
zngz oz igt ot gte kbktz hk ghgtjutkj, gtj otjomtgtzre lxuctotm avut znk
loxyz jgctotm ul kbkxe gzzksvz zu groktgzk gte vuxzout ul uax iuatzxe lxus
znk xkyz ux zu ktlkkhrk znk ygixkj zoky cnoin tuc rotq zumkznkx znk bgxouay
vgxzy.

Glzkx znk rgvyk ul ngrl g iktzaxe znkyk gjsutozouty ul Cgynotmzut lgrr avut
ay cozn grr znk luxik ul zxazn. Oz oy jolloiarz zu kyzosgzk znk "ossktyk
bgrak" ul uax mruxouay Atout ul iutlkjkxgzkj Yzgzky, zu cnoin ck gxk yu
sain otjkhzkj lux uax mxuczn ot vuvargzout gtj ckgrzn gtj lux grr zngz
iutyzozazky ay g mxkgz gtj g ngvve tgzout. Nuc atosvuxzgtz gxk grr uax
jollkxktiky ul uvotout avut sotux wakyzouty ul vahroi vuroie iusvgxkj cozn
ozy vxkykxbgzout, gtj nuc yixavaruayre ynuarj ck gbuoj grr gmozgzotm zuvoiy
cnoin sge zktj zu joyzxgiz gtj jobojk ay otzu iutzktjotm vgxzoky, ykvgxgzkj
he mkumxgvnoigr rotky, cnkxkhe oz sge hk ckgqktkj ux ktjgtmkxkj.

Otbuqotm znk hrkyyotm ul znk Grsomnze Xarkx ul znk Atobkxyk avut euax
jkrohkxgzouty, oz corr hk se nomnkyz jaze, tu rkyy zngt se yotikxk
vrkgyaxk, zu iuuvkxgzk cozn eua ot grr skgyaxky cnoin sge zktj zu vxusuzk
znk nutux gtj ktjaxotm ckrlgxk ul uax iussut iuatzxe.

PGSKY Q. VURQ