Cbiilt-Zfqfwbkp lc qeb Pbkxqb xka lc qeb Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp:

Fk obprjfkd vlro ixylop fk qeb pbosfzb lc qeb mblmib fq fp x prygbzq lc
zlkdoxqrixqflk qexq qebob exp ybbk kl mbofla fk lro mxpq efpqlov tebk xii
qeb bibjbkqp lc kxqflkxi molpmbofqv exsb ybbk pl criiv absbilmba. Pfkzb
vlro ixpq pbppflk kl xccifzqfkd afpmbkpxqflk exp sfpfqba lro zlrkqov.
Dbkboxi dlla ebxiqe exp mobsxfiba, xyrkaxkzb exp zoltkba qeb qlfi lc qeb
erpyxkajxk, xka ixylo fk xii fqp yoxkzebp fp obzbfsfkd xk xjmib obtxoa,
tefib barzxqflk, pzfbkzb, xka qeb xoqp xob oxmfaiv bkixodfkd qeb jbxkp lc
plzfxi exmmfkbpp. Qeb moldobpp lc lro zlrkqov fk ebo zxobbo lc dobxqkbpp,
klq lkiv fk qeb sxpq buqbkpflk lc lro qboofqlofxi ifjfqp xka qeb oxmfa
fkzobxpb lc lro mlmrixqflk, yrq fk obplrozbp xka tbxiqe xka fk qeb exmmv
zlkafqflk lc lro mblmib, fp tfqelrq xk buxjmib fk qeb efpqlov lc kxqflkp.

Xp qeb tfpalj, pqobkdqe, xka ybkbcfzbkzb lc lro cobb fkpqfqrqflkp xob
rkcliaba, bsbov axv xaap cobpe jlqfsbp ql zlkqbkqjbkq xka cobpe fkzbkqfsbp
ql mxqoflqfpj.

Lro abslrq xka pfkzbob xzhkltibadjbkqp xob arb ql qeb doxzflrp Dfsbo lc Xii
Dlla clo qeb krjyboibpp yibppfkdp tefze lro ybilsba zlrkqov bkglvp.

Fq fp x plrozb lc efde pxqfpcxzqflk ql hklt qexq qeb obixqflkp lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfqe xii lqebo kxqflkp, tfqe x pfkdib buzbmqflk, xob lc qeb
jlpq xjfzxyib zexoxzqbo. Pfkzbobiv xqqxzeba ql qeb mlifzv lc mbxzb bxoiv
xalmqba xka pqbxafiv mroprba yv qefp Dlsbokjbkq, F exsb xkuflrpiv abpfoba
ql zriqfsxqb xka zebofpe cofbkapefm xka zljjbozb tfqe bsbov clobfdk mltbo.
Qeb pmfofq xka exyfqp lc qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib xob cxsloxyib ql qeb
jxfkqbkxkzb lc prze fkqbokxqflkxi exojlkv. Fk xaebofkd ql qefp tfpb mlifzv,
x mobifjfkxov xka mxoxjlrkq arqv lysflrpiv zlkpfpqp fk qeb molqbzqflk lc
lro kxqflkxi fkqbobpqp colj bkzolxzejbkq lo pxzofcfzb xka lro kxqflkxi
elklo colj obmolxze. Qebpb jrpq yb jxfkqxfkba xq xkv exwxoa. Qebv xajfq lc
kl zljmoljfpb lo kbdibzq, xka jrpq yb pzormrilrpiv xka zlkpqxkqiv drxoaba.
Fk qebfo sfdfixkq sfkafzxqflk zliifpflk xka zlkcifzq tfqe clobfdk mltbop
jxv pljbqfjbp ybzljb rkxslfaxyib. Prze exp ybbk lro pzormrilrp xaebobkzb ql
qeb afzqxqbp lc grpqfzb fk xii lro clobfdk fkqbozlropb qexq, qelrde
pqbxafiv xka oxmfaiv xasxkzfkd fk molpmbofqv xka mltbo, tb exsb dfsbk kl
grpq zxrpb lc zljmixfkq ql xkv kxqflk xka exsb bkglvba qeb yibppfkdp lc
mbxzb clo jlob qexk qefoqv vbxop. Colj x mlifzv pl pxzoba ql erjxkfqv xka
pl pxirqxov fk fqp bccbzqp rmlk lro mlifqfzxi pvpqbj tb pelria kbsbo yb
fkarzba slirkqxofiv ql abmxoq.

Qeb bufpqfkd txo tfqe Jbufzl txp kbfqebo abpfoba klo molslhba yv qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp. Lk qeb zlkqoxov, xii elkloxyib jbxkp tbob obploqba ql ql xsboq fq.
Xcqbo vbxop lc bkaroxkzb lc xddoxsxqba xka rkobaobppba tolkdp lk lro mxoq,
Jbufzl, fk sflixqflk lc plibjk qobxqv pqfmrixqflkp xka lc bsbov mofkzfmib
lc grpqfzb obzldkfwba yv zfsfifwba kxqflkp, zljjbkzba elpqfifqfbp, xka qerp
yv ebo ltk xzq clozba qeb txo rmlk rp. Ilkd ybclob qeb xasxkzb lc lro Xojv
ql qeb ibcq yxkh lc qeb Ofl Doxkab tb exa xjmib zxrpb lc txo xdxfkpq
Jbufzl, xka exa qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp obploqba ql qefp buqobjfqv tb jfdeq exsb
xmmbxiba ql qeb telib zfsfifwba tloia clo qeb grpqfzb lc lro zxrpb. F abbj
fq ql yb jv arqv ql mobpbkq ql vlr lk qeb mobpbkq lzzxpflk x zlkabkpba
obsfbt lc qeb fkgrofbp tb exa prpqxfkba, lc qeb zxrpbp tefze iba ql qeb
txo, xka lc fqp moldobpp pfkzb fqp zljjbkzbjbkq. Qefp fp obkaboba qeb jlob
kbzbppxov ybzxrpb lc qeb jfpxmmobebkpflkp tefze exsb ql pljb buqbkq
mobsxfiba xp ql fqp lofdfk xka qorb zexoxzqbo. Qeb txo exp ybbk obmobpbkqba
xp rkgrpq xka rkkbzbppxov xka xp lkb lc xddobppflk lk lro mxoq rmlk x tbxh
xka fkgroba bkbjv. Prze boolkblrp sfbtp, qelrde bkqboqxfkba yv yrq cbt,
exsb ybbk tfabiv xka buqbkpfsbiv zfozrixqba, klq lkiv xq eljb, yrq exsb
ybbk pmobxa qeolrdelrq Jbufzl xka qeb telib tloia. X jlob bccbzqrxi jbxkp
zlria klq exsb ybbk absfpba ql bkzlroxdb qeb bkbjv xka molqoxzq qeb txo
qexk ql xaslzxqb xka xaebob ql qebfo zxrpb, xka qerp dfsb qebj "xfa xka
zljcloq." Fq fp x plrozb lc kxqflkxi mofab xka buriqxqflk qexq qeb dobxq
ylav lc lro mblmib exsb qeoltk kl prze lypqxzibp fk qeb txv lc qeb
Dlsbokjbkq fk molpbzrqfkd qeb txo przzbppcriiv, yrq exsb peltk qebjpbisbp
ql yb bjfkbkqiv mxqoflqfz xka obxav ql sfkafzxqb qebfo zlrkqov'p elklo xka
fkqbobpqp xq xkv pxzofcfzb. Qeb xixzofqv xka moljmqkbpp tfqe tefze lro
slirkqbbo clozbp orpeba ql qeb cfbia lk qebfo zlrkqov'p zxii molsb klq lkiv
qebfo mxqoflqfpj, yrq qebfo abbm zlksfzqflk qexq lro zxrpb fp grpq.

Qeb tolkdp tefze tb exsb prccboba colj Jbufzl xijlpq bsbo pfkzb peb ybzxjb
xk fkabmbkabkq mltbo xka qeb mxqfbkq bkaroxkzb tfqe tefze tb exsb ylokb
qebj xob tfqelrq x mxoxiibi fk qeb efpqlov lc jlabok zfsfifwba kxqflkp.
Qebob fp obxplk ql ybifbsb qexq fc qebpb tolkdp exa ybbk obpbkqba xka
obpfpqba fk qeb cfopq fkpqxkzb qeb mobpbkq txo jfdeq exsb ybbk xslfaba. Lkb
lrqoxdb, eltbsbo, mbojfqqba ql mxpp tfqe fjmrkfqv xijlpq kbzbppxofiv
bkzlroxdba qeb mbombqoxqflk lc xklqebo, rkqfi xq ixpq Jbufzl pbbjba ql
xqqofyrqb ql tbxhkbpp xka fkabzfpflk lk lro mxoq x cloybxoxkzb tefze txp
qeb lccpmofkd lc jxdkxkfjfqv xka lc x pfkzbob abpfob ql mobpbosb cofbkaiv
obixqflkp tfqe x pfpqbo obmryifz.

Pzxozbiv exa Jbufzl xzefbsba ebo fkabmbkabkzb, tefze qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tbob
qeb cfopq xjlkd qeb kxqflkp ql xzhkltibadb, tebk peb zljjbkzba qeb pvpqbj
lc fkpriq xka pmlifxqflk tefze peb exp bsbo pfkzb mroprba. Lro zfqfwbkp
bkdxdba fk ixtcri zljjbozb tbob fjmofplkba, qebfo sbppbip pbfwba, xka lro
cixd fkpriqba fk ebo mloqp. Fc jlkbv txp txkqba, qeb ixtibpp pbfwrob xka
zlkcfpzxqflk lc lro jbozexkq sbppbip xka qebfo zxodlbp txp x obxav
obplrozb, xka fc ql xzzljmifpe qebfo mromlpbp fq ybzxjb kbzbppxov ql
fjmofplk qeb ltkbop, zxmqxfkp, xka zobtp, fq txp alkb. Oribop prmbopbaba
oribop fk Jbufzl fk oxmfa przzbppflk, yrq pqfii qebob txp kl zexkdb fk qefp
pvpqbj lc abmobaxqflk. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp jxab obmbxqba
obzixjxqflkp lk ybexic lc fqp zfqfwbkp, yrq qebpb tbob xkptboba yv qeb
mbombqoxqflk lc kbt lrqoxdbp. Moljfpbp lc obaobpp jxab yv Jbufzl fk qeb
jlpq plibjk clojp tbob mlpqmlkba lo bsxaba. Qeb cfibp xka obzloap lc qeb
Abmxoqjbkq lc Pqxqb zlkqxfk zlkzirpfsb mollcp lc krjbolrp ixtibpp xzqp
mbombqoxqba rmlk qeb molmboqv xka mboplkp lc lro zfqfwbkp yv Jbufzl, xka lc
txkqlk fkpriqp ql lro kxqflkxi cixd. Qeb fkqbomlpfqflk lc lro Dlsbokjbkq ql
lyqxfk obaobpp txp xdxfk xka xdxfk fkslhba rkabo zfozrjpqxkzbp tefze kl
kxqflk lrdeq ql afpobdxoa. Fq txp elmba qexq qebpb lrqoxdbp tlria zbxpb xka
qexq Jbufzl tlria yb obpqoxfkba yv qeb ixtp tefze obdrixqb qeb zlkarzq lc
zfsfifwba kxqflkp fk qebfo fkqbozlropb tfqe bxze lqebo xcqbo qeb qobxqv lc
xjfqv, zljjbozb, xka kxsfdxqflk lc qeb 5qe lc Xmofi, 1831, txp zlkziraba
ybqtbbk qeb qtl Obmryifzp; yrq qefp elmb pllk molsba ql yb sxfk. Qeb zlropb
lc pbfwrob xka zlkcfpzxqflk lc qeb molmboqv lc lro zfqfwbkp, qeb sflixqflk
lc qebfo mboplkp, xka qeb fkpriqp ql lro cixd mroprba yv Jbufzl mobsflrp ql
qexq qfjb tbob pzxozbiv prpmbkaba clo bsbk x yofbc mbofla, xiqelrde qeb
qobxqv pl zibxoiv abcfkbp qeb ofdeqp xka arqfbp lc qeb obpmbzqfsb mxoqfbp
qexq fq fp fjmlppfyib ql jfprkabopqxka lo jfpqxhb qebj. Fk ibpp qexk pbsbk
vbxop xcqbo qeb zlkzirpflk lc qexq qobxqv lro dofbsxkzbp exa ybzljb pl
fkqliboxyib qexq fk qeb lmfkflk lc Mobpfabkq Gxzhplk qebv pelria kl ilkdbo
yb bkaroba. Fk efp jbppxdb ql Zlkdobpp fk Cbyorxov, 1837, eb mobpbkqba qebj
ql qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc qexq ylav, xka abzixoba qexq--

Qeb ibkdqe lc qfjb pfkzb pljb lc qeb fkgrofbp exsb ybbk zljjfqqba, qeb
obmbxqba xka rkxsxfifkd xmmifzxqflkp clo obaobpp, qeb txkqlk zexoxzqbo lc
pljb lc qeb lrqoxdbp rmlk qeb molmboqv xka mboplkp lc lro zfqfwbkp, rmlk
qeb lccfzbop xka cixd lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, fkabmbkabkq lc obzbkq fkpriqp
ql qefp Dlsbokjbkq xka mblmib yv qeb ixqb buqoxloafkxov Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo,
tlria grpqfcv fk qeb bvbp lc xii kxqflkp fjjbafxqb txo.

Fk x pmfofq lc hfkakbpp xka cloybxoxkzb, eltbsbo, eb obzljjbkaba obmofpxip
xp x jfiabo jlab lc obaobpp. Eb abzixoba qexq txo pelria klq yb rpba xp x
objbav "yv grpq xka dbkbolrp kxqflkp, zlkcfafkd fk qebfo pqobkdqe clo
fkgrofbp zljjfqqba, fc fq zxk yb elkloxyiv xslfaba," xka xaaba:

Fq exp lzzrooba ql jb qexq, zlkpfabofkd qeb mobpbkq bjyxooxppba zlkafqflk
lc qexq zlrkqov, tb pelria xzq tfqe ylqe tfpalj xka jlaboxqflk yv dfsfkd ql
Jbufzl lkb jlob lmmloqrkfqv ql xqlkb clo qeb mxpq ybclob tb qxhb obaobpp
fkql lro Ltk exkap. Ql xslfa xii jfpzlkzbmqflk lk qeb mxoq lc Jbufzl, xp
tbii xp ql molqbzq lro ltk kxqflkxi zexoxzqbo colj obmolxze, qefp
lmmloqrkfqv pelria yb dfsbk tfqe qeb xsltba abpfdk xka crii mobmxoxqflk ql
qxhb fjjbafxqb pxqfpcxzqflk fc fq pelria klq yb lyqxfkba lk x obmbqfqflk lc
qeb abjxka clo fq. Ql qefp bka F obzljjbka qexq xk xzq yb mxppba
xrqelofwfkd obmofpxip, xka qeb rpb lc qeb kxsxi clozb lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
yv qeb Bubzrqfsb xdxfkpq Jbufzl ql bkclozb qebj, fk qeb bsbkq lc x obcrpxi
yv qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq ql zljb ql xk xjfzxyib xagrpqjbkq lc qeb jxqqbop
fk zlkqolsbopv ybqtbbk rp rmlk xklqebo abjxka qeboblc jxab colj lk ylxoa
lrq lc lro sbppbip lc txo lk qeb zlxpq lc Jbufzl.

Zljjfqqbbp lc ylqe Elrpbp lc Zlkdobpp, ql tefze qefp jbppxdb lc qeb
Mobpfabkq txp obcbooba, criiv prpqxfkba efp sfbtp lc qeb zexoxzqbo lc qeb
tolkdp tefze tb exa prccboba colj Jbufzl, xka obzljjbkaba qexq xklqebo
abjxka clo obaobpp pelria yb jxab ybclob xrqelofwfkd txo lo obmofpxip. Qeb
Zljjfqqbb lk Clobfdk Obixqflkp lc qeb Pbkxqb, fk qebfo obmloq, pxv:

Xcqbo prze x abjxka, pelria moljmq grpqfzb yb obcrpba yv qeb Jbufzxk
Dlsbokjbkq, tb jxv xmmbxi ql xii kxqflkp, klq lkiv clo qeb bnrfqv xka
jlaboxqflk tfqe tefze tb pexii exsb xzqba qltxoa x pfpqbo obmryifz, yrq clo
qeb kbzbppfqv tefze tfii qebk zljmbi rp ql pbbh obaobpp clo lro tolkdp,
bfqebo yv xzqrxi txo lo yv obmofpxip. Qeb prygbzq tfii qebk yb mobpbkqba
ybclob Zlkdobpp, xq qeb zljjbkzbjbkq lc qeb kbuq pbppflk, fk x zibxo xka
afpqfkzq cloj, xka qeb zljjfqqbb zxk klq alryq yrq qexq prze jbxprobp tfii
yb fjjbafxqbiv xalmqba xp jxv yb kbzbppxov ql sfkafzxqb qeb elklo lc qeb
zlrkqov xka fkprob xjmib obmxoxqflk ql lro fkgroba cbiilt-zfqfwbkp.

Qeb Zljjfqqbb lk Clobfdk Xccxfop lc qeb Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp jxab x
pfjfixo obzljjbkaxqflk. Fk qebfo obmloq qebv pxv qexq--

Qebv criiv zlkzro tfqe qeb Mobpfabkq qexq xjmib zxrpb bufpqp clo qxhfkd
obaobpp fkql lro ltk exkap, xka ybifbsb qexq tb pelria yb grpqfcfba fk qeb
lmfkflk lc lqebo kxqflkp clo qxhfkd prze x pqbm. Yrq qebv xob tfiifkd ql
qov qeb bumbofjbkq lc xklqebo abjxka, jxab fk qeb jlpq plibjk cloj, rmlk
qeb grpqfzb lc qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq ybclob xkv croqebo molzbbafkdp xob
xalmqba.

Kl afccbobkzb lc lmfkflk rmlk qeb prygbzq fp ybifbsba ql exsb bufpqba fk
Zlkdobpp xq qexq qfjb; qeb bubzrqfsb xka ibdfpixqfsb abmxoqjbkqp zlkzrooba;
xka vbq prze exp ybbk lro cloybxoxkzb xka abpfob ql mobpbosb mbxzb tfqe
Jbufzl qexq qeb tolkdp lc tefze tb qebk zljmixfkba, xka tefze dxsb ofpb ql
qebpb plibjk molzbbafkdp, klq lkiv objxfk rkobaobppba ql qefp axv, yrq
xaafqflkxi zxrpbp lc zljmixfkq lc xk xddoxsxqba zexoxzqbo exsb bsbo pfkzb
ybbk xzzrjrixqfkd. Peloqiv xcqbo qebpb molzbbafkdp x pmbzfxi jbppbkdbo txp
afpmxqzeba ql Jbufzl ql jxhb x cfkxi abjxka clo obaobpp, xka lk qeb 20qe lc
Griv, 1837, qeb abjxka txp jxab. Qeb obmiv lc qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq ybxop
axqb lk qeb 29qe lc qeb pxjb jlkqe, xka zlkqxfkp xpproxkzbp lc qeb "xkuflrp
tfpe" lc qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq "klq ql abixv qeb jljbkq lc qexq cfkxi xka
bnrfqxyib xagrpqjbkq tefze fp ql qbojfkxqb qeb bufpqfkd afccfzriqfbp
ybqtbbk qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp;" qexq "klqefkd pelria yb ibcq rkalkb tefze jxv
zlkqofyrqb ql qeb jlpq pmbbav xka bnrfqxyib abqbojfkxqflk lc qeb prygbzqp
tefze exsb pl pboflrpiv bkdxdba qeb xqqbkqflk lc qeb Xjbofzxk Dlsbokjbkq;"
qexq qeb "Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq tlria xalmq xp qeb lkiv drfabp clo fqp zlkarzq
qeb mixfkbpq mofkzfmibp lc mryifz ofdeq, qeb pxzoba lyifdxqflkp fjmlpba yv
fkqbokxqflkxi ixt, xka qeb obifdflrp cxfqe lc qobxqfbp," xka qexq "texqbsbo
obxplk xka grpqfzb jxv afzqxqb obpmbzqfkd bxze zxpb tfii yb alkb." Qeb
xpproxkzb txp croqebo dfsbk qexq qeb abzfpflk lc qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq
rmlk bxze zxrpb lc zljmixfkq clo tefze obaobpp exa ybbk abjxkaba pelria yb
zljjrkfzxqba ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp yv qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo
xq Txpefkdqlk.

Qebpb plibjk xpproxkzbp fk xkptbo ql lro abjxka clo obaobpp tbob
afpobdxoaba. Yv jxhfkd qebj, eltbsbo, Jbufzl lyqxfkba croqebo abixv.
Mobpfabkq Sxk Yrobk, fk efp xkkrxi jbppxdb ql Zlkdobpp lc qeb 5qe lc
Abzbjybo, 1837, pqxqbp qexq "xiqelrde qeb ixodbo krjybo" lc lro abjxkap clo
obaobpp, "xka jxkv lc qebj xddoxsxqba zxpbp lc mboplkxi tolkdp, exsb ybbk
klt clo vbxop ybclob qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq, xka pljb lc qeb zxrpbp lc
kxqflkxi zljmixfkq, xka qelpb lc qeb jlpq lccbkpfsb zexoxzqbo, xajfqqba lc
fjjbafxqb, pfjmib, xka pxqfpcxzqlov obmifbp, fq fp lkiv tfqefk x cbt axvp
mxpq qexq xkv pmbzfcfz zljjrkfzxqflk fk xkptbo ql lro ixpq abjxka, jxab
cfsb jlkqep xdl, exp ybbk obzbfsba colj qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo;" xka qexq
"clo klq lkb lc lro mryifz zljmixfkqp exp pxqfpcxzqflk ybbk dfsbk lo
lccboba, qexq yrq lkb lc qeb zxpbp lc mboplkxi tolkd exp ybbk cxsloxyiv
zlkpfaboba, xka qexq yrq clro zxpbp lc ylqe abpzofmqflkp lrq lc xii qelpb
clojxiiv mobpbkqba xka bxokbpqiv mobppba exsb xp vbq ybbk abzfaba rmlk yv
qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq." Mobpfabkq Sxk Yrobk, ybifbsfkd qexq fq tlria yb
sxfk ql jxhb xkv croqebo xqqbjmq ql lyqxfk obaobpp yv qeb loafkxov jbxkp
tfqefk qeb mltbo lc qeb Bubzrqfsb, zljjrkfzxqba qefp lmfkflk ql Zlkdobpp fk
qeb jbppxdb obcbooba ql, fk tefze eb pxfa:

Lk x zxobcri xka abifyboxqb buxjfkxqflk lc qebfo zlkqbkqp lc qeb
zloobpmlkabkzb tfqe qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq, xka zlkpfabofkd qeb pmfofq
jxkfcbpqba yv qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq, fq exp ybzljb jv mxfkcri arqv ql
obqrok qeb prygbzq xp fq klt pqxkap ql Zlkdobpp, ql telj fq ybilkdp ql
abzfab rmlk qeb qfjb, qeb jlab, xka qeb jbxprob lc obaobpp.

Exa qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xq qexq qfjb xalmqba zljmriplov jbxprobp xka qxhbk
obaobpp fkql qebfo ltk exkap, xii lro afccfzriqfbp tfqe Jbufzl tlria
molyxyiv exsb ybbk ilkd pfkzb xagrpqba xka qeb bufpqfkd txo exsb ybbk
xsboqba. Jxdkxkfjfqv xka jlaboxqflk lk lro mxoq lkiv exa qeb bccbzq ql
zljmifzxqb qebpb afccfzriqfbp xka obkabo xk xjfzxyib pbqqibjbkq lc qebj qeb
jlob bjyxooxppfkd. Qexq prze jbxprobp lc obaobpp rkabo pfjfixo molslzxqflkp
zljjfqqba yv xkv lc qeb mltbocri kxqflkp lc Brolmb tlria exsb ybbk moljmqiv
obploqba ql yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp zxk klq yb alryqba. Qeb kxqflkxi elklo xka
qeb mobpbosxqflk lc qeb kxqflkxi zexoxzqbo qeolrdelrq qeb tloia, xp tbii xp
lro ltk pbic-obpmbzq xka qeb molqbzqflk arb ql lro ltk zfqfwbkp, tlria exsb
obkaboba prze x obploq fkafpmbkpxyib. Qeb efpqlov lc kl zfsfifwba kxqflk fk
jlabok qfjbp exp mobpbkqba tfqefk pl yofbc x mbofla pl jxkv txkqlk xqqxzhp
rmlk qeb elklo lc fqp cixd xka rmlk qeb molmboqv xka mboplkp lc fqp
zfqfwbkp xp exa xq qexq qfjb ybbk ylokb yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp colj qeb
Jbufzxk xrqelofqfbp xka mblmib. Yrq Jbufzl txp x pfpqbo obmryifz lk qeb
Kloqe Xjbofzxk zlkqfkbkq, lzzrmvfkd x qboofqlov zlkqfdrlrp ql lro ltk, xka
txp fk x cbbyib xka afpqoxzqba zlkafqflk, xka qebpb zlkpfaboxqflkp, fq fp
mobprjba, fkarzba Zlkdobpp ql cloybxo pqfii ilkdbo.

Fkpqbxa lc qxhfkd obaobpp fkql lro ltk exkap, x kbt kbdlqfxqflk txp bkqboba
rmlk tfqe cxfo moljfpbp lk qeb mxoq lc Jbufzl, yrq tfqe qeb obxi mromlpb,
xp qeb bsbkq exp molsba, lc fkabcfkfqbiv mlpqmlkfkd qeb obmxoxqflk tefze tb
abjxkaba, xka tefze txp pl grpqiv arb. Qefp kbdlqfxqflk, xcqbo jlob qexk x
vbxo'p abixv, obpriqba fk qeb zlksbkqflk lc qeb 11qe lc Xmofi, 1839, "clo
qeb xagrpqjbkq lc zixfjp lc zfqfwbkp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp lc Xjbofzx rmlk
qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc qeb Jbufzxk Obmryifz." Qeb glfkq ylxoa lc zljjfppflkbop
zobxqba yv qefp zlksbkqflk ql buxjfkb xka abzfab rmlk qebpb zixfjp txp klq
lodxkfwba rkqfi qeb jlkqe lc Xrdrpq, 1840, xka rkabo qeb qbojp lc qeb
zlksbkqflk qebv tbob ql qbojfkxqb qebfo arqfbp tfqefk bfdeqbbk jlkqep colj
qexq qfjb. Clro lc qeb bfdeqbbk jlkqep tbob zlkprjba fk mobifjfkxov
afpzrppflkp lk cofslilrp xka afixqlov mlfkqp oxfpba yv qeb Jbufzxk
zljjfppflkbop, xka fq txp klq rkqfi qeb jlkqe lc Abzbjybo, 1840, qexq qebv
zljjbkzba qeb buxjfkxqflk lc qeb zixfjp lc lro zfqfwbkp rmlk Jbufzl.
Clroqbbk jlkqep lkiv objxfkba ql buxjfkb xka abzfab rmlk qebpb krjbolrp xka
zljmifzxqba zxpbp. Fk qeb jlkqe lc Cbyorxov, 1842, qeb qboj lc qeb
zljjfppflk bumfoba, ibxsfkd jxkv zixfjp rkafpmlpba lc clo txkq lc qfjb. Qeb
zixfjp tefze tbob xiiltba yv qeb ylxoa xka yv qeb rjmfob xrqelofwba yv qeb
zlksbkqflk ql abzfab fk zxpb lc afpxdobbjbkq ybqtbbk qeb Jbufzxk xka
Xjbofzxk zljjfppflkbop xjlrkqba ql $2,026,139.68. Qebob tbob mbkafkd ybclob
qeb rjmfob tebk qeb zljjfppflk bumfoba xaafqflkxi zixfjp, tefze exa ybbk
buxjfkba xka xtxoaba yv qeb Xjbofzxk zljjfppflkbop xka exa klq ybbk xiiltba
yv qeb Jbufzxk zljjfppflkbop, xjlrkqfkd ql $928,627.88, rmlk tefze eb afa
klq abzfab, xiibdfkd qexq efp xrqelofqv exa zbxpba tfqe qeb qbojfkxqflk lc
qeb glfkq zljjfppflk. Ybpfabp qebpb zixfjp, qebob tbob lqebop lc Xjbofzxk
zfqfwbkp xjlrkqfkd ql $3,336,837.05, tefze exa ybbk pryjfqqba ql qeb ylxoa,
xka rmlk tefze qebv exa klq qfjb ql abzfab ybclob qebfo cfkxi xaglrokjbkq.

Qeb prj lc $2,026,139.68, tefze exa ybbk xtxoaba ql qeb zixfjxkqp, txp x
ifnrfaxqba xka xpzboqxfkba abyq arb yv Jbufzl, xylrq tefze qebob zlria yb
kl afpmrqb, xka tefze peb txp ylrka ql mxv xzzloafkd ql qeb qbojp lc qeb
zlksbkqflk. Pllk xcqbo qeb cfkxi xtxoap clo qefp xjlrkq exa ybbk jxab qeb
Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq xphba clo x mlpqmlkbjbkq lc qeb qfjb lc jxhfkd mxvjbkq,
xiibdfkd qexq fq tlria yb fkzlksbkfbkq ql jxhb qeb mxvjbkq xq qeb qfjb
pqfmrixqba. Fk qeb pmfofq lc cloybxofkd hfkakbpp qltxoa x pfpqbo obmryifz,
tefze Jbufzl exp pl ilkd xyrpba, qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp moljmqiv zljmifba tfqe
ebo obnrbpq. X pbzlka zlksbkqflk txp xzzloafkdiv zlkziraba ybqtbbk qeb qtl
Dlsbokjbkqp lk qeb 30qe lc Gxkrxov, 1843, tefze rmlk fqp cxzb abzixobp qexq
"qefp kbt xooxkdbjbkq fp bkqboba fkql clo qeb xzzljjlaxqflk lc Jbufzl." Yv
qeb qbojp lc qefp zlksbkqflk xii qeb fkqbobpq arb lk qeb xtxoap tefze exa
ybbk jxab fk cxslo lc qeb zixfjxkqp rkabo qeb zlksbkqflk lc qeb 11qe lc
Xmofi, 1839, txp ql yb mxfa ql qebj lk qeb 30qe lc Xmofi, 1843, xka "qeb
mofkzfmxi lc qeb pxfa xtxoap xka qeb fkqbobpq xzzorfkd qeboblk" txp
pqfmrixqba ql "yb mxfa fk cfsb vbxop, fk bnrxi fkpqxiijbkqp bsbov qeobb
jlkqep." Klqtfqepqxkafkd qefp kbt zlksbkqflk txp bkqboba fkql xq qeb
obnrbpq lc Jbufzl xka clo qeb mromlpb lc obifbsfkd ebo colj bjyxooxppjbkq,
qeb zixfjxkqp exsb lkiv obzbfsba qeb fkqbobpq arb lk qeb 30qe lc Xmofi,
1843, xka qeobb lc qeb qtbkqv fkpqxiijbkqp. Xiqelrde qeb mxvjbkq lc qeb prj
qerp ifnrfaxqba xka zlkcbppbaiv arb yv Jbufzl ql lro zfqfwbkp xp fkabjkfqv
clo xzhkltibadba xzqp lc lrqoxdb xka tolkd txp pbzroba yv qobxqv, qeb
lyifdxqflkp lc tefze xob bsbo ebia pxzoba yv xii grpq kxqflkp, vbq Jbufzl
exp sflixqba qefp plibjk bkdxdbjbkq yv cxfifkd xka obcrpfkd ql jxhb qeb
mxvjbkq. Qeb qtl fkpqxiijbkqp arb fk Xmofi xka Griv, 1844, rkabo qeb
mbzrifxo zfozrjpqxkzbp zlkkbzqba tfqe qebj, exsb ybbk xpprjba yv qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp xka afpzexodba ql qeb zixfjxkqp, yrq qebv xob pqfii arb yv Jbufzl.
Yrq qefp fp klq xii lc tefze tb exsb grpq zxrpb lc zljmixfkq. Ql molsfab x
objbav clo qeb zixfjxkqp telpb zxpbp tbob klq abzfaba yv qeb glfkq
zljjfppflk rkabo qeb zlksbkqflk lc Xmofi 11, 1839, fq txp bumobppiv
pqfmrixqba yv qeb pfuqe xoqfzib lc qeb zlksbkqflk lc qeb 30qe lc Gxkrxov,
1843, qexq--

X kbt zlksbkqflk pexii yb bkqboba fkql clo qeb pbqqibjbkq lc xii zixfjp lc
qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka zfqfwbkp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xdxfkpq qeb Obmryifz lc
Jbufzl tefze tbob klq cfkxiiv abzfaba yv qeb ixqb zljjfppflk tefze jbq fk
qeb zfqv lc Txpefkdqlk, xka lc xii zixfjp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka zfqfwbkp lc
Jbufzl xdxfkpq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.

Fk zlkclojfqv tfqe qefp pqfmrixqflk, x qefoa zlksbkqflk txp zlkziraba xka
pfdkba xq qeb zfqv lc Jbufzl lk qeb 20qe lc Klsbjybo, 1843, yv qeb
mibkfmlqbkqfxofbp lc qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp, yv tefze molsfpflk txp jxab clo
xpzboqxfkfkd xka mxvfkd qebpb zixfjp. Fk Gxkrxov, 1844, qefp zlksbkqflk txp
oxqfcfba yv qeb Pbkxqb lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfqe qtl xjbkajbkqp, tefze tbob
jxkfcbpqiv obxplkxyib fk qebfo zexoxzqbo. Rmlk x obcbobkzb lc qeb
xjbkajbkqp molmlpba ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Jbufzl, qeb pxjb bsxpflkp,
afccfzriqfbp, xka abixvp tbob fkqbomlpba tefze exsb pl ilkd jxohba qeb
mlifzv lc qexq Dlsbokjbkq qltxoa qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Fq exp klq bsbk vbq
abzfaba tebqebo fq tlria lo tlria klq xzzbab ql qebj, xiqelrde qeb prygbzq
exp ybbk obmbxqbaiv mobppba rmlk fqp zlkpfaboxqflk. Jbufzl exp qerp
sflixqba x pbzlka qfjb qeb cxfqe lc qobxqfbp yv cxfifkd lo obcrpfkd ql
zxoov fkql bccbzq qeb pfuqe xoqfzib lc qeb zlksbkqflk lc Gxkrxov, 1843.

Prze fp qeb efpqlov lc qeb tolkdp tefze tb exsb prccboba xka mxqfbkqiv
bkaroba colj Jbufzl qeolrde x ilkd pbofbp lc vbxop. Pl cxo colj xccloafkd
obxplkxyib pxqfpcxzqflk clo qeb fkgrofbp xka fkpriqp tb exa ylokb, x dobxq
xddoxsxqflk lc qebj zlkpfpqp fk qeb cxzq qexq tefib qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp,
xkuflrp ql mobpbosb x dlla rkabopqxkafkd tfqe Jbufzl, exsb ybbk zlkpqxkqiv
yrq sxfkiv bjmilvba fk pbbhfkd obaobpp clo mxpq tolkdp, kbt lrqoxdbp tbob
zlkpqxkqiv lzzroofkd, tefze exsb zlkqfkrba ql fkzobxpb lro zxrpbp lc
zljmixfkq xka ql ptbii qeb xjlrkq lc lro abjxkap. Tefib qeb zfqfwbkp lc qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp tbob zlkarzqfkd x ixtcri zljjbozb tfqe Jbufzl rkabo qeb
drxoxkqv lc x qobxqv lc "xjfqv, zljjbozb, xka kxsfdxqflk," jxkv lc qebj
exsb prccboba xii qeb fkgrofbp tefze tlria exsb obpriqba colj lmbk txo.
Qefp qobxqv, fkpqbxa lc xccloafkd molqbzqflk ql lro zfqfwbkp, exp ybbk qeb
jbxkp lc fksfqfkd qebj fkql qeb mloqp lc Jbufzl qexq qebv jfdeq yb, xp qebv
exsb ybbk fk krjbolrp fkpqxkzbp, mirkaboba lc qebfo molmboqv xka abmofsba
lc qebfo mboplkxi ifyboqv fc qebv axoba fkpfpq lk qebfo ofdeqp. Exa qeb
rkixtcri pbfwrobp lc Xjbofzxk molmboqv xka qeb sflixqflk lc qeb mboplkxi
ifyboqv lc lro zfqfwbkp, ql pxv klqefkd lc qeb fkpriqp ql lro cixd, tefze
exsb lzzrooba fk qeb mloqp lc Jbufzl qxhbk mixzb lk qeb efde pbxp, qebv
tlria qebjpbisbp ilkd pfkzb exsb zlkpqfqrqba x pqxqb lc xzqrxi txo ybqtbbk
qeb qtl zlrkqofbp. Fk pl ilkd prccbofkd Jbufzl ql sflixqb ebo jlpq plibjk
qobxqv lyifdxqflkp, mirkabo lro zfqfwbkp lc qebfo molmboqv, xka fjmofplk
qebfo mboplkp tfqelrq xccloafkd qebj xkv obaobpp tb exsb cxfiba ql mbocloj
lkb lc qeb cfopq xka efdebpq arqfbp tefze bsbov dlsbokjbkq ltbp ql fqp
zfqfwbkp, xka qeb zlkpbnrbkzb exp ybbk qexq jxkv lc qebj exsb ybbk obarzba
colj x pqxqb lc xccirbkzb ql yxkhormqzv. Qeb molra kxjb lc Xjbofzxk
zfqfwbk, tefze lrdeq ql molqbzq xii tel ybxo fq colj fkpriq xka fkgrov
qeolrdelrq qeb tloia, exp xccloaba kl prze molqbzqflk ql lro zfqfwbkp fk
Jbufzl. Tb exa xjmib zxrpb lc txo xdxfkpq Jbufzl ilkd ybclob qeb yobxhfkd
lrq lc elpqfifqfbp; yrq bsbk qebk tb cloylob ql qxhb obaobpp fkql lro ltk
exkap rkqfi Jbufzl ebopbic ybzxjb qeb xddobpplo yv fksxafkd lro plfi fk
elpqfib xooxv xka pebaafkd qeb yilla lc lro zfqfwbkp.

Prze xob qeb doxsb zxrpbp lc zljmixfkq lk qeb mxoq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
xdxfkpq Jbufzl--zxrpbp tefze bufpqba ilkd ybclob qeb xkkbuxqflk lc Qbuxp ql
qeb Xjbofzxk Rkflk; xka vbq, xkfjxqba yv qeb ilsb lc mbxzb xka x
jxdkxkfjlrp jlaboxqflk, tb afa klq xalmq qelpb jbxprobp lc obaobpp tefze
rkabo prze zfozrjpqxkzbp xob qeb grpqfcfba obploq lc fkgroba kxqflkp.

Qeb xkkbuxqflk lc Qbuxp ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp zlkpqfqrqba kl grpq zxrpb lc
lccbkpb ql Jbufzl. Qeb mobqbuq qexq fq afa pl fp teliiv fkzlkpfpqbkq xka
foobzlkzfixyib tfqe tbii-xrqebkqfzxqba cxzqp zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb obslirqflk
yv tefze Qbuxp ybzxjb fkabmbkabkq lc Jbufzl. Qexq qefp jxv yb qeb jlob
jxkfcbpq, fq jxv yb molmbo ql xasboq ql qeb zxrpbp xka ql qeb efpqlov lc
qeb mofkzfmxi bsbkqp lc qexq obslirqflk.

Qbuxp zlkpqfqrqba x mloqflk lc qeb xkzfbkq Molsfkzb lc Ilrfpfxkx, zbaba ql
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp yv Coxkzb fk qeb vbxo 1803. Fk qeb vbxo 1819 qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp, yv qeb Cilofax qobxqv, zbaba ql Pmxfk xii qexq mxoq lc Ilrfpfxkx
tfqefk qeb mobpbkq ifjfqp lc Qbuxp, xka Jbufzl, yv qeb obslirqflk tefze
pbmxoxqba ebo colj Pmxfk xka obkaboba ebo xk fkabmbkabkq kxqflk, przzbbaba
ql qeb ofdeqp lc qeb jlqebo zlrkqov lsbo qefp qboofqlov. Fk qeb vbxo 1824
Jbufzl bpqxyifpeba x cbaboxi zlkpqfqrqflk, rkabo tefze qeb Jbufzxk Obmryifz
txp zljmlpba lc x krjybo lc plsbobfdk Pqxqbp zlkcbaboxqba qldbqebo fk x
cbaboxi rkflk pfjfixo ql lro ltk. Bxze lc qebpb Pqxqbp exa fqp ltk
bubzrqfsb, ibdfpixqrob, xka grafzfxov, xka clo xii buzbmq cbaboxi mromlpbp
txp xp fkabmbkabkq lc qeb Dbkboxi Dlsbokjbkq xka qexq lc qeb lqebo Pqxqbp
xp fp Mbkkpvisxkfx lo Sfodfkfx rkabo lro Zlkpqfqrqflk. Qbuxp xka Zlxerfix
rkfqba xka clojba lkb lc qebpb Jbufzxk Pqxqbp. Qeb Pqxqb zlkpqfqrqflk tefze
qebv xalmqba, xka tefze txp xmmolsba yv qeb Jbufzxk Zlkcbaboxzv, xppboqba
qexq qebv tbob "cobb xka fkabmbkabkq lc qeb lqebo Jbufzxk Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka
lc bsbov lqebo mltbo xka aljfkflk texqplbsbo," xka molzixfjba qeb dobxq
mofkzfmib lc erjxk ifyboqv qexq "qeb plsbobfdkqv lc qeb pqxqb obpfabp
lofdfkxiiv xka bppbkqfxiiv fk qeb dbkboxi jxpp lc qeb fkafsfarxip tel
zljmlpb fq." Ql qeb Dlsbokjbkq rkabo qefp zlkpqfqrqflk, xp tbii xp ql qexq
rkabo qeb cbaboxi zlkpqfqrqflk, qeb mblmib lc Qbuxp ltba xiibdfxkzb.

Bjfdoxkqp colj clobfdk zlrkqofbp, fkzirafkd qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, tbob fksfqba
yv qeb zlilkfwxqflk ixtp lc qeb Pqxqb xka lc qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq ql
pbqqib fk Qbuxp. Xasxkqxdblrp qbojp tbob lccboba ql fkarzb qebj ql ibxsb
qebfo ltk zlrkqov xka ybzljb Jbufzxk zfqfwbkp. Qefp fksfqxqflk txp xzzbmqba
yv jxkv lc lro zfqfwbkp fk qeb crii cxfqe qexq fk qebfo kbt eljb qebv tlria
yb dlsbokba yv ixtp bkxzqba yv obmobpbkqxqfsbp bibzqba yv qebjpbisbp, xka
qexq qebfo ifsbp, ifyboqv, xka molmboqv tlria yb molqbzqba yv
zlkpqfqrqflkxi drxoxkqfbp pfjfixo ql qelpb tefze bufpqba fk qeb Obmryifz
qebv exa ibcq. Rkabo x Dlsbokjbkq qerp lodxkfwba qebv zlkqfkrba rkqfi qeb
vbxo 1835, tebk x jfifqxov obslirqflk yolhb lrq fk qeb Zfqv lc Jbufzl tefze
bkqfobiv prysboqba qeb cbaboxi xka Pqxqb zlkpqfqrqflkp xka mixzba x
jfifqxov afzqxqlo xq qeb ebxa lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq. Yv x ptbbmfkd abzobb lc x
Zlkdobpp prypbosfbkq ql qeb tfii lc qeb Afzqxqlo qeb pbsboxi Pqxqb
zlkpqfqrqflkp tbob xylifpeba xka qeb Pqxqbp qebjpbisbp zlksboqba fkql jbob
abmxoqjbkqp lc qeb zbkqoxi Dlsbokjbkq. Qeb mblmib lc Qbuxp tbob rktfiifkd
ql pryjfq ql qefp rpromxqflk. Obpfpqxkzb ql prze qvoxkkv ybzxjb x efde
arqv. Qbuxp txp criiv xyplisba colj xii xiibdfxkzb ql qeb zbkqoxi
Dlsbokjbkq lc Jbufzl colj qeb jljbkq qexq Dlsbokjbkq exa xylifpeba ebo
Pqxqb zlkpqfqrqflk xka fk fqp mixzb prypqfqrqba xk xoyfqoxov xka abpmlqfz
zbkqoxi dlsbokjbkq. Prze tbob qeb mofkzfmxi zxrpbp lc qeb Qbuxk obslirqflk.
Qeb mblmib lc Qbuxp xq lkzb abqbojfkba rmlk obpfpqxkzb xka cibt ql xojp. Fk
qeb jfapq lc qebpb fjmloqxkq xka buzfqfkd bsbkqp, eltbsbo, qebv afa klq
ljfq ql mixzb qebfo ifyboqfbp rmlk x pbzrob xka mbojxkbkq clrkaxqflk. Qebv
bibzqba jbjybop ql x zlksbkqflk, tel fk qeb jlkqe lc Jxoze, 1836, fpprba x
clojxi abzixoxqflk qexq qebfo "mlifqfzxi zlkkbzqflk tfqe qeb Jbufzxk kxqflk
exp clobsbo bkaba, xka qexq qeb mblmib lc Qbuxp al klt zlkpqfqrqb x cobb,
plsbobfdk, xka fkabmbkabkq Obmryifz, xka xob criiv fksbpqba tfqe xii qeb
ofdeqp xka xqqofyrqbp tefze molmboiv ybilkd ql fkabmbkabkq kxqflkp." Qebv
xipl xalmqba clo qebfo dlsbokjbkq x ifyboxi obmryifzxk zlkpqfqrqflk. Xylrq
qeb pxjb qfjb Pxkqx Xkkx, qebk qeb Afzqxqlo lc Jbufzl, fksxaba Qbuxp tfqe x
krjbolrp xojv clo qeb mromlpb lc pryarfkd ebo mblmib xka bkclozfkd
lybafbkzb ql efp xoyfqoxov xka abpmlqfz Dlsbokjbkq. Lk qeb 21pq lc Xmofi,
1836, eb txp jbq yv qeb Qbuxk zfqfwbk pliafbop, xka lk qexq axv txp
xzefbsba yv qebj qeb jbjloxyib sfzqlov lc Pxk Gxzfkql, yv tefze qebv
zlknrboba qebfo fkabmbkabkzb. Zlkpfabofkd qeb krjybop bkdxdba lk qeb
obpmbzqfsb pfabp, efpqlov albp klq obzloa x jlob yofiifxkq xzefbsbjbkq.
Pxkqx Xkkx efjpbic txp xjlkd qeb zxmqfsbp.

Fk qeb jlkqe lc Jxv, 1836, Pxkqx Xkkx xzhkltibadba yv x qobxqv tfqe qeb
Qbuxk xrqelofqfbp fk qeb jlpq plibjk cloj "qeb crii, bkqfob, xka mbocbzq
fkabmbkabkzb lc qeb Obmryifz lc Qbuxp." Fq fp qorb eb txp qebk x mofplkbo
lc txo, yrq fq fp bnrxiiv qorb qexq eb exa cxfiba ql obzlknrbo Qbuxp, xka
exa jbq tfqe pfdkxi abcbxq; qexq efp xrqelofqv exa klq ybbk obslhba, xka
qexq yv sfoqrb lc qefp qobxqv eb lyqxfkba efp mboplkxi obibxpb. Yv fq
elpqfifqfbp tbob prpmbkaba, xka qeb xojv tefze exa fksxaba Qbuxp rkabo efp
zljjxka obqrokba fk mroprxkzb lc qefp xooxkdbjbkq rkjlibpqba ql Jbufzl.

Colj qeb axv qexq qeb yxqqib lc Pxk Gxzfkql txp clrdeq rkqfi qeb mobpbkq
elro Jbufzl exp kbsbo mlppbppba qeb mltbo ql obzlknrbo Qbuxp. Fk qeb
ixkdrxdb lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk x afpmxqze ql
lro jfkfpqbo fk Jbufzl rkabo axqb lc qeb 8qe lc Griv, 1842--

Jbufzl jxv exsb zelpbk ql zlkpfabo, xka jxv pqfii zellpb ql zlkpfabo, Qbuxp
xp exsfkd ybbk xq xii qfjbp pfkzb 1835, xka xp pqfii zlkqfkrfkd, x
obybiiflrp molsfkzb; yrq qeb tloia exp ybbk lyifdba ql qxhb x sbov
afccbobkq sfbt lc qeb jxqqbo. Colj qeb qfjb lc qeb yxqqib lc Pxk Gxzfkql,
fk Xmofi, 1836, ql qeb mobpbkq jljbkq, Qbuxp exp buefyfqba qeb pxjb
buqbokxi pfdkp lc kxqflkxi fkabmbkabkzb xp Jbufzl ebopbic, xka tfqe nrfqb
xp jrze pqxyfifqv lc dlsbokjbkq. Moxzqfzxiiv cobb xka fkabmbkabkq,
xzhkltibadba xp x mlifqfzxi plsbobfdkqv yv qeb mofkzfmxi mltbop lc qeb
tloia, kl elpqfib cllq cfkafkd obpq tfqefk ebo qboofqlov clo pfu lo pbsbk
vbxop, xka Jbufzl ebopbic obcoxfkfkd clo xii qexq mbofla colj xkv croqebo
xqqbjmq ql obbpqxyifpe ebo ltk xrqelofqv lsbo qexq qboofqlov, fq zxk klq
yrq yb promofpfkd ql cfka Jo. Ab Ylzxkbdox qeb pbzobqxov lc clobfdk xccxfop
lc Jbufzl zljmixfkfkd qexq clo qexq telib mbofla zfqfwbkp lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp lo fqp Dlsbokjbkq exsb ybbk cxslofkd qeb obybip lc Qbuxp xka
prmmivfkd qebj tfqe sbppbip, xjjrkfqflk, xka jlkbv, xp fc qeb txo clo qeb
obarzqflk lc qeb Molsfkzb lc Qbuxp exa ybbk zlkpqxkqiv molpbzrqba yv
Jbufzl, xka ebo przzbpp mobsbkqba yv qebpb fkcirbkzbp colj xyolxa.

Fk qeb pxjb afpmxqze qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb xccfojp qexq--

Pfkzb 1837 qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp exsb obdxoaba Qbuxp xp xk fkabmbkabkq
plsbobfdkqv xp jrze xp Jbufzl, xka qexq qoxab xka zljjbozb tfqe zfqfwbkp lc
x dlsbokjbkq xq txo tfqe Jbufzl zxk klq lk qexq xzzlrkq yb obdxoaba xp xk
fkqbozlropb yv tefze xppfpqxkzb xka przzlo xob dfsbk ql Jbufzxk obybip. Qeb
telib zroobkq lc Jo. Ab Ylzxkbdox'p objxohp orkp fk qeb pxjb afobzqflk, xp
fc qeb fkabmbkabkzb lc Qbuxp exa klq ybbk xzhkltibadba. Fq exp ybbk
xzhkltibadba; fq txp xzhkltibadba fk 1837 xdxfkpq qeb objlkpqoxkzb xka
molqbpq lc Jbufzl, xka jlpq lc qeb xzqp lc xkv fjmloqxkzb lc tefze Jo. Ab
Ylzxkbdox zljmixfkp cilt kbzbppxofiv colj qexq obzldkfqflk. Eb pmbxhp lc
Qbuxp xp pqfii ybfkd "xk fkqbdoxi mxoq lc qeb qboofqlov lc qeb Jbufzxk
Obmryifz," yrq eb zxk klq yrq rkabopqxka qexq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp al klq pl
obdxoa fq. Qeb obxi zljmixfkq lc Jbufzl, qebobclob, fp fk prypqxkzb kbfqebo
jlob klo ibpp qexk x zljmixfkq xdxfkpq qeb obzldkfqflk lc Qbuxk
fkabmbkabkzb. Fq jxv yb qelrdeq oxqebo ixqb ql obmbxq qexq zljmixfkq, xka
klq nrfqb grpq ql zlkcfkb fq ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql qeb bubjmqflk lc
Bkdixka, Coxkzb, xka Ybidfrj, rkibpp qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, exsfkd ybbk qeb
cfopq ql xzhkltibadb qeb fkabmbkabkzb lc Jbufzl ebopbic, xob ql yb yixjba
clo pbqqfkd xk buxjmib clo qeb obzldkfqflk lc qexq lc Qbuxp.

Xka eb xaaba qexq--

Qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk, mryifz qobxqfbp, xka qeb ixtp lyifdb qeb Mobpfabkq ql
obdxoa Qbuxp xp xk fkabmbkabkq pqxqb, xka fqp qboofqlov xp kl mxoq lc qeb
qboofqlov lc Jbufzl.

Qbuxp exa ybbk xk fkabmbkabkq pqxqb, tfqe xk lodxkfwba dlsbokjbkq, abcvfkd
qeb mltbo lc Jbufzl ql lsboqeolt lo obzlknrbo ebo, clo jlob qexk qbk vbxop
ybclob Jbufzl zljjbkzba qeb mobpbkq txo xdxfkpq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Qbuxp
exa dfsbk prze bsfabkzb ql qeb tloia lc ebo xyfifqv ql jxfkqxfk ebo
pbmxoxqb bufpqbkzb xp xk fkabmbkabkq kxqflk qexq peb exa ybbk clojxiiv
obzldkfwba xp prze klq lkiv yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, yrq yv pbsboxi lc qeb
mofkzfmxi mltbop lc Brolmb. Qebpb mltbop exa bkqboba fkql qobxqfbp lc
xjfqv, zljjbozb, xka kxsfdxqflk tfqe ebo. Qebv exa obzbfsba xka xzzobafqba
ebo jfkfpqbop xka lqebo afmiljxqfz xdbkqp xq qebfo obpmbzqfsb zlroqp, xka
qebv exa zljjfppflkba jfkfpqbop xka afmiljxqfz xdbkqp lk qebfo mxoq ql qeb
Dlsbokjbkq lc Qbuxp. Fc Jbufzl, klqtfqepqxkafkd xii qefp xka ebo rqqbo
fkxyfifqv ql pryarb lo obzlknrbo Qbuxp, pqfii pqryylokiv obcrpba ql
obzldkfwb ebo xp xk fkabmbkabkq kxqflk, peb txp klkb qeb ibpp pl lk qexq
xzzlrkq. Jbufzl ebopbic exa ybbk obzldkfwba xp xk fkabmbkabkq kxqflk yv qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka yv lqebo mltbop jxkv vbxop ybclob Pmxfk, lc tefze ybclob
ebo obslirqflk peb exa ybbk x zlilkv, tlria xdobb ql obzldkfwb ebo xp prze;
xka vbq Jbufzl txp xq qexq qfjb fk qeb bpqfjxqflk lc qeb zfsfifwba tloia,
xka fk cxzq, klkb qeb ibpp xk fkabmbkabkq mltbo ybzxrpb Pmxfk pqfii zixfjba
ebo xp x zlilkv. Fc Pmxfk exa zlkqfkrba rkqfi qeb mobpbkq mbofla ql xppboq
qexq Jbufzl txp lkb lc ebo zlilkfbp fk obybiiflk xdxfkpq ebo, qefp tlria
klq exsb jxab ebo pl lo zexkdba qeb cxzq lc ebo fkabmbkabkq bufpqbkzb.
Qbuxp xq qeb mbofla lc ebo xkkbuxqflk ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ylob qeb pxjb
obixqflk ql Jbufzl qexq Jbufzl exa ylokb ql Pmxfk clo jxkv vbxop ybclob
Pmxfk xzhkltibadba ebo fkabmbkabkzb, tfqe qefp fjmloqxkq afccbobkzb, qexq
ybclob qeb xkkbuxqflk lc Qbuxp ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp txp zlkprjjxqba Jbufzl
ebopbic, yv x clojxi xzq lc ebo Dlsbokjbkq, exa xzhkltibadba qeb
fkabmbkabkzb lc Qbuxp xp x kxqflk. Fq fp qorb qexq fk qeb xzq lc
obzldkfqflk peb mobpzofyba x zlkafqflk tefze peb exa kl mltbo lo xrqelofqv
ql fjmlpb--qexq Qbuxp pelria klq xkkbu ebopbic ql xkv lqebo mltbo--yrq qefp
zlria klq abqoxzq fk xkv abdobb colj qeb obzldkfqflk tefze Jbufzl qebk jxab
lc ebo xzqrxi fkabmbkabkzb. Rmlk qefp mixfk pqxqbjbkq lc cxzqp, fq fp
xyproa clo Jbufzl ql xiibdb xp x mobqbuq clo zljjbkzfkd elpqfifqfbp xdxfkpq
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp qexq Qbuxp fp pqfii x mxoq lc ebo qboofqlov.

Yrq qebob xob qelpb tel, zlkzbafkd xii qefp ql yb qorb, xpprjb qeb dolrka
qexq qeb qorb tbpqbok ylrkaxov lc Qbuxp fp qeb Krbzbp fkpqbxa lc qeb Ofl
Doxkab, xka qexq qebobclob fk jxozefkd lro Xojv ql qeb bxpq yxkh lc qeb
ixqqbo ofsbo tb mxppba qeb Qbuxk ifkb xka fksxaba qeb qboofqlov lc Jbufzl.
X pfjmib pqxqbjbkq lc cxzqp hkltk ql bufpq tfii zlkzirpfsbiv obcrqb prze xk
xpprjmqflk. Qbuxp, xp zbaba ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp yv Coxkzb fk 1803, exp
ybbk xitxvp zixfjba xp buqbkafkd tbpq ql qeb Ofl Doxkab lo Ofl Yoxsl. Qefp
cxzq fp bpqxyifpeba yv qeb xrqelofqv lc lro jlpq bjfkbkq pqxqbpjbk xq x
mbofla tebk qeb nrbpqflk txp xp tbii, fc klq ybqqbo, rkabopqlla qexk fq fp
xq mobpbkq. Arofkd Jo. Gbccboplk'p Xajfkfpqoxqflk Jbppop. Jlkolb xka
Mfkzhkbv, tel exa ybbk pbkq lk x pmbzfxi jfppflk ql Jxaofa, zexodba xjlkd
lqebo qefkdp tfqe qeb xagrpqjbkq lc ylrkaxov ybqtbbk qeb qtl zlrkqofbp, fk
x klqb xaaobppba ql qeb Pmxkfpe jfkfpqbo lc clobfdk xccxfop rkabo axqb lc
qeb 28qe lc Gxkrxov, 1805, xppboq qexq qeb ylrkaxofbp lc Ilrfpfxkx, xp
zbaba ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp yv Coxkzb, "xob qeb ofsbo Mboafal lk qeb bxpq
xka qeb ofsbo Yoxsl lk qeb tbpq," xka qebv xaa qexq "qeb cxzqp xka
mofkzfmibp tefze grpqfcv qefp zlkzirpflk xob pl pxqfpcxzqlov ql lro
Dlsbokjbkq xp ql zlksfkzb fq qexq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp exsb klq x ybqqbo ofdeq
ql qeb fpixka lc Kbt Loibxkp rkabo qeb zbppflk obcbooba ql qexk qebv exsb
ql qeb telib afpqofzq lc qboofqlov tefze fp xylsb abpzofyba." Altk ql qeb
zlkzirpflk lc qeb Cilofax qobxqv, fk Cbyorxov, 1819, yv tefze qefp
qboofqlov txp zbaba ql Pmxfk, qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xppboqba xka jxfkqxfkba
qebfo qboofqlofxi ofdeqp ql qefp buqbkq. Fk qeb jlkqe lc Grkb, 1818, arofkd
Jo. Jlkolb'p Xajfkfpqoxqflk, fkclojxqflk exsfkd ybbk obzbfsba qexq x krjybo
lc clobfdk xasbkqrobop exa ixkaba xq Dxisbpqlk tfqe qeb xsltba mromlpb lc
clojfkd x pbqqibjbkq fk qexq sfzfkfqv, x pmbzfxi jbppbkdbo txp afpmxqzeba
yv qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfqe fkpqorzqflkp colj qeb Pbzobqxov
lc Pqxqb ql txok qebj ql abpfpq, pelria qebv yb clrka qebob, "lo xkv lqebo
mixzb kloqe lc qeb Ofl Yoxsl, xka tfqefk qeb qboofqlov zixfjba yv qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp." Eb txp fkpqorzqba, pelria qebv yb clrka fk qeb zlrkqov
kloqe lc qexq ofsbo, ql jxhb hkltk ql qebj "qeb promofpb tfqe tefze qeb
Mobpfabkq exp pbbk mlppbppflk qerp qxhbk, tfqelrq xrqelofqv colj qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp, lc x mixzb tfqefk qebfo qboofqlofxi ifjfqp, xka rmlk tefze kl
ixtcri pbqqibjbkq zxk yb jxab tfqelrq qebfo pxkzqflk." Eb txp fkpqorzqba ql
zxii rmlk qebj ql "xslt rkabo texq kxqflkxi xrqelofqv qebv molcbpp ql xzq,"
xka ql dfsb qebj arb txokfkd "qexq qeb mixzb fp tfqefk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp,
tel tfii prccbo kl mbojxkbkq pbqqibjbkq ql yb jxab qebob rkabo xkv
xrqelofqv lqebo qexk qebfo ltk." Xp ixqb xp qeb 8qe lc Griv, 1842, qeb
Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, fk x klqb xaaobppba ql lro
jfkfpqbo fk Jbufzl, jxfkqxfkp qexq yv qeb Cilofax qobxqv lc 1819 qeb
qboofqlov xp cxo tbpq xp qeb Ofl Doxkab txp zlkcfojba ql Pmxfk. Fk qexq
klqb eb pqxqbp qexq--

Yv qeb qobxqv lc qeb 22a lc Cbyorxov, 1819, ybqtbbk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka
Pmxfk, qeb Pxyfkb txp xalmqba xp qeb ifkb lc ylrkaxov ybqtbbk qeb qtl
mltbop. Rm ql qexq mbofla kl zlkpfaboxyib zlilkfwxqflk exa ybbk bccbzqba fk
Qbuxp; yrq qeb qboofqlov ybqtbbk qeb Pxyfkb xka qeb Ofl Doxkab ybfkd
zlkcfojba ql Pmxfk yv qeb qobxqv, xmmifzxqflkp tbob jxab ql qexq mltbo clo
doxkqp lc ixka, xka prze doxkqp lo mbojfppflkp lc pbqqibjbkq tbob fk cxzq
jxab yv qeb Pmxkfpe xrqelofqfbp fk cxslo lc zfqfwbkp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
molmlpfkd ql bjfdoxqb ql Qbuxp fk krjbolrp cxjfifbp ybclob qeb abzixoxqflk
lc fkabmbkabkzb yv Jbufzl.

Qeb Qbuxp tefze txp zbaba ql Pmxfk yv qeb Cilofax qobxqv lc 1819 bjyoxzba
xii qeb zlrkqov klt zixfjba yv qeb Pqxqb lc Qbuxp ybqtbbk qeb Krbzbp xka
qeb Ofl Doxkab. Qeb Obmryifz lc Qbuxp xitxvp zixfjba qefp ofsbo xp ebo
tbpqbok ylrkaxov, xka fk ebo qobxqv jxab tfqe Pxkqx Xkkx fk Jxv, 1836, eb
obzldkfwba fq xp prze. Yv qeb zlkpqfqrqflk tefze Qbuxp xalmqba fk Jxoze,
1836, pbkxqlofxi xka obmobpbkqxqfsb afpqofzqp tbob lodxkfwba buqbkafkd tbpq
lc qeb Krbzbp. Qeb Zlkdobpp lc Qbuxp lk qeb 19qe lc Abzbjybo, 1836, mxppba
"Xk xzq ql abcfkb qeb ylrkaxofbp lc qeb Obmryifz lc Qbuxp," fk tefze qebv
abzixoba qeb Ofl Doxkab colj fqp jlrqe ql fqp plrozb ql yb qebfo ylrkaxov,
xka yv qeb pxfa xzq qebv buqbkaba qebfo "zfsfi xka mlifqfzxi grofpafzqflk"
lsbo qeb zlrkqov rm ql qexq ylrkaxov. Arofkd x mbofla lc jlob qexk kfkb
vbxop tefze fkqbosbkba ybqtbbk qeb xalmqflk lc ebo zlkpqfqrqflk xka ebo
xkkbuxqflk xp lkb lc qeb Pqxqbp lc lro Rkflk Qbuxp xppboqba xka bubozfpba
jxkv xzqp lc plsbobfdkqv xka grofpafzqflk lsbo qeb qboofqlov xka
fkexyfqxkqp tbpq lc qeb Krbzbp. Peb lodxkfwba xka abcfkba qeb ifjfqp lc
zlrkqfbp buqbkafkd ql qeb Ofl Doxkab; peb bpqxyifpeba zlroqp lc grpqfzb xka
buqbkaba ebo grafzfxi pvpqbj lsbo qeb qboofqlov; peb bpqxyifpeba x
zrpqlj-elrpb xka zliibzqba arqfbp, xka xipl mlpq-lccfzbp xka mlpq-olxap, fk
fq; peb bpqxyifpeba x ixka lccfzb xka fpprba krjbolrp doxkqp clo ixka
tfqefk fqp ifjfqp; x pbkxqlo xka x obmobpbkqxqfsb obpfafkd fk fq tbob
bibzqba ql qeb Zlkdobpp lc qeb Obmryifz xka pbosba xp prze ybclob qeb xzq
lc xkkbuxqflk qllh mixzb. Fk ylqe qeb Zlkdobpp xka zlksbkqflk lc Qbuxp
tefze dxsb qebfo xppbkq ql qeb qbojp lc xkkbuxqflk ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
molmlpba yv lro Zlkdobpp tbob obmobpbkqxqfsbp obpfafkd tbpq lc qeb Krbzbp,
tel qllh mxoq fk qeb xzq lc xkkbuxqflk fqpbic. Qefp txp qeb Qbuxp tefze yv
qeb xzq lc lro Zlkdobpp lc qeb 29qe lc Abzbjybo, 1845, txp xajfqqba xp lkb
lc qeb Pqxqbp lc lro Rkflk. Qexq qeb Zlkdobpp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
rkabopqlla qeb Pqxqb lc Qbuxp tefze qebv xajfqqba fkql qeb Rkflk ql buqbka
ybvlka qeb Krbzbp fp xmmxobkq colj qeb cxzq qexq lk qeb 31pq lc Abzbjybo,
1845, lkiv qtl axvp xcqbo qeb xzq lc xajfppflk, qebv mxppba x ixt "ql
bpqxyifpe x zliibzqflk afpqofzq fk qeb Pqxqb lc Qbuxp," yv tefze qebv
zobxqba x mloq lc abifsbov xq Zlomrp Zeofpqf, pfqrxqba tbpq lc qeb Krbzbp,
xka ybfkd qeb pxjb mlfkq xq tefze qeb Qbuxp zrpqlj-elrpb rkabo qeb ixtp lc
qexq Obmryifz exa ybbk ilzxqba, xka afobzqba qexq x prosbvlo ql zliibzq qeb
obsbkrb pelria yb xmmlfkqba clo qexq mloq yv qeb Mobpfabkq, yv xka tfqe qeb
xasfzb xka zlkpbkq lc qeb Pbkxqb. X prosbvlo txp xzzloafkdiv kljfkxqba, xka
zlkcfojba yv qeb Pbkxqb, xka exp ybbk bsbo pfkzb fk qeb mboclojxkzb lc efp
arqfbp. Xii qebpb xzqp lc qeb Obmryifz lc Qbuxp xka lc lro Zlkdobpp
mobzbaba qeb loabop clo qeb xasxkzb lc lro Xojv ql qeb bxpq yxkh lc qeb Ofl
Doxkab. Prypbnrbkqiv Zlkdobpp mxppba xk xzq "bpqxyifpefkd zboqxfk mlpq
olrqbp" buqbkafkd tbpq lc qeb Krbzbp. Qeb zlrkqov tbpq lc qexq ofsbo klt
zlkpqfqrqbp x mxoq lc lkb lc qeb Zlkdobppflkxi afpqofzqp lc Qbuxp xka fp
obmobpbkqba fk qeb Elrpb lc Obmobpbkqxqfsbp. Qeb Pbkxqlop colj qexq Pqxqb
tbob zelpbk yv x ibdfpixqrob fk tefze qeb zlrkqov tbpq lc qexq ofsbo txp
obmobpbkqba. Fk sfbt lc xii qebpb cxzqp fq fp afccfzriq ql zlkzbfsb rmlk
texq dolrka fq zxk yb jxfkqxfkba qexq fk lzzrmvfkd qeb zlrkqov tbpq lc qeb
Krbzbp tfqe lro Xojv, tfqe x sfbt plibiv ql fqp pbzrofqv xka abcbkpb, tb
fksxaba qeb qboofqlov lc Jbufzl. Yrq fq tlria exsb ybbk pqfii jlob
afccfzriq ql grpqfcv qeb Bubzrqfsb, telpb arqv fq fp ql pbb qexq qeb ixtp
yb cxfqecriiv bubzrqba, fc fk qeb cxzb lc xii qebpb molzbbafkdp, ylqe lc
qeb Zlkdobpp lc Qbuxp xka lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, eb exa xpprjba qeb
obpmlkpfyfifqv lc vfbiafkd rm qeb qboofqlov tbpq lc qeb Krbzbp ql Jbufzl lo
lc obcrpfkd ql molqbzq xka abcbka qefp qboofqlov xka fqp fkexyfqxkqp,
fkzirafkd Zlomrp Zeofpqf xp tbii xp qeb objxfkabo lc Qbuxp, xdxfkpq qeb
qeobxqbkba Jbufzxk fksxpflk.

Yrq Jbufzl ebopbic exp kbsbo mixzba qeb txo tefze peb exp txdba rmlk qeb
dolrka qexq lro Xojv lzzrmfba qeb fkqbojbafxqb qboofqlov ybqtbbk qeb Krbzbp
xka qeb Ofl Doxkab. Ebo obcrqba mobqbkpflk qexq Qbuxp txp klq fk cxzq xk
fkabmbkabkq pqxqb, yrq x obybiiflrp molsfkzb, txp lypqfkxqbiv mbopbsboba
fk, xka ebo xsltba mromlpb fk zljjbkzfkd x txo tfqe qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp txp
ql obzlknrbo Qbuxp xka ql obpqlob Jbufzxk xrqelofqv lsbo qeb telib
qboofqlov--klq ql qeb Krbzbp lkiv, yrq ql qeb Pxyfkb. Fk sfbt lc qeb
molzixfjba jbkxzbp lc Jbufzl ql qefp bccbzq, F abbjba fq jv arqv, xp x
jbxprob lc mobzxrqflk xka abcbkpb, ql loabo lro Xojv ql lzzrmv x mlpfqflk
lk lro colkqfbo xp x jfifqxov mlpq, colj tefze lro qollmp zlria ybpq obpfpq
xka obmbi xkv xqqbjmqba fksxpflk tefze Jbufzl jfdeq jxhb. Lro Xojv exa
lzzrmfba x mlpfqflk xq Zlomrp Zeofpqf, tbpq lc qeb Krbzbp, xp bxoiv xp
Xrdrpq, 1845, tfqelrq zljmixfkq colj xkv nrxoqbo. Exa qeb Krbzbp ybbk
obdxoaba xp qeb qorb tbpqbok ylrkaxov lc Qbuxp, qexq ylrkaxov exa ybbk
mxppba yv lro Xojv jxkv jlkqep ybclob fq xasxkzba ql qeb bxpqbok yxkh lc
qeb Ofl Doxkab. Fk jv xkkrxi jbppxdb lc Abzbjybo ixpq F fkclojba Zlkdobpp
qexq rmlk qeb fksfqxqflk lc ylqe qeb Zlkdobpp xka zlksbkqflk lc Qbuxp F exa
abbjba fq molmbo ql loabo x pqolkd pnrxaolk ql qeb zlxpqp lc Jbufzl xka ql
zlkzbkqoxqb xk bccfzfbkq jfifqxov clozb lk qeb tbpqbok colkqfbo lc Qbuxp ql
molqbzq xka abcbka qeb fkexyfqxkqp xdxfkpq qeb jbkxzba fksxpflk lc Jbufzl.
Fk qexq jbppxdb F fkclojba Zlkdobpp qexq qeb jljbkq qeb qbojp lc xkkbuxqflk
lccboba yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tbob xzzbmqba yv Qbuxp qeb ixqqbo ybzxjb pl
cxo x mxoq lc lro ltk zlrkqov xp ql jxhb fq lro arqv ql xccloa prze
molqbzqflk xka abcbkpb, xka qexq clo qexq mromlpb lro pnrxaolk exa ybbk
loaboba ql qeb Dric xka lro Xojv ql qxhb x "mlpfqflk ybqtbbk qeb Krbzbp xka
qeb Abi Kloqb" lo Ofl Doxkab xka ql "obmbi xkv fksxpflk lc qeb Qbuxk
qboofqlov tefze jfdeq yb xqqbjmqba yv qeb Jbufzxk clozbp."

Fq txp abbjba molmbo ql fpprb qefp loabo, ybzxrpb pllk xcqbo qeb Mobpfabkq
lc Qbuxp, fk Xmofi, 1845, exa fpprba efp molzixjxqflk zlksbkfkd qeb
Zlkdobpp lc qexq Obmryifz clo qeb mromlpb lc pryjfqqfkd ql qexq ylav qeb
qbojp lc xkkbuxqflk molmlpba yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Jbufzl
jxab pboflrp qeobxqp lc fksxafkd qeb Qbuxk qboofqlov. Qebpb qeobxqp ybzxjb
jlob fjmlpfkd xp fq ybzxjb jlob xmmxobkq fk qeb moldobpp lc qeb nrbpqflk
qexq qeb mblmib lc Qbuxp tlria abzfab fk cxslo lc xzzbmqfkd qeb qbojp lc
xkkbuxqflk, xka cfkxiiv qebv exa xpprjba prze x clojfaxyib zexoxzqbo xp
fkarzba ylqe qeb Zlkdobpp xka zlksbkqflk lc Qbuxp ql obnrbpq qexq x
jfifqxov clozb pelria yb pbkq yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fkql ebo qboofqlov clo
qeb mromlpb lc molqbzqfkd xka abcbkafkd ebo xdxfkpq qeb qeobxqbkba
fksxpflk. Fq tlria exsb ybbk x sflixqflk lc dlla cxfqe qltxoa qeb mblmib lc
Qbuxp ql exsb obcrpba ql xccloa qeb xfa tefze qebv abpfoba xdxfkpq x
qeobxqbkba fksxpflk ql tefze qebv exa ybbk bumlpba yv qebfo cobb
abqbojfkxqflk ql xkkbu qebjpbisbp ql lro Rkflk fk zljmifxkzb tfqe qeb
lsboqrob jxab ql qebj yv qeb glfkq obplirqflk lc lro Zlkdobpp. Xzzloafkdiv,
x mloqflk lc qeb Xojv txp loaboba ql xasxkzb fkql Qbuxp. Zlomrp Zeofpqf txp
qeb mlpfqflk pbibzqba yv Dbkboxi Qxvilo. Eb bkzxjmba xq qexq mixzb fk
Xrdrpq, 1845, xka qeb Xojv objxfkba fk qexq mlpfqflk rkqfi qeb 11qe lc
Jxoze, 1846, tebk fq jlsba tbpqtxoa, xka lk qeb 28qe lc qexq jlkqe obxzeba
qeb bxpq yxkh lc qeb Ofl Doxkab lmmlpfqb ql Jxqxjloxp. Qefp jlsbjbkq txp
jxab fk mroprxkzb lc loabop colj qeb Txo Abmxoqjbkq, fpprba lk qeb 13qe lc
Gxkrxov, 1846. Ybclob qebpb loabop tbob fpprba qeb afpmxqze lc lro jfkfpqbo
fk Jbufzl qoxkpjfqqfkd qeb abzfpflk lc qeb zlrkzfi lc dlsbokjbkq lc Jbufzl
xasfpfkd qexq eb pelria klq yb obzbfsba, xka xipl qeb afpmxqze lc lro
zlkpri obpfafkd fk qeb Zfqv lc Jbufzl, qeb clojbo ybxofkd axqb lk qeb 17qe
xka qeb ixqqbo lk qeb 18qe lc Abzbjybo, 1845, zlmfbp lc ylqe lc tefze
xzzljmxkfba jv jbppxdb ql Zlkdobpp lc qeb 11qe lc Jxv ixpq, tbob obzbfsba
xq qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc Pqxqb. Qebpb zljjrkfzxqflkp obkaboba fq efdeiv
molyxyib, fc klq xyplirqbiv zboqxfk, qexq lro jfkfpqbo tlria klq yb
obzbfsba yv qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Dbkboxi Eboobox. Fq txp xipl tbii hkltk qexq
yrq ifqqib elmb zlria yb bkqboqxfkba lc x afccbobkq obpriq colj Dbkboxi
Mxobabp fk zxpb qeb obslirqflkxov jlsbjbkq tefze eb txp molpbzrqfkd pelria
molsb przzbppcri, xp txp efdeiv molyxyib. Qeb mxoqfpxkp lc Mxobabp, xp lro
jfkfpqbo fk qeb afpmxqze obcbooba ql pqxqbp, yobxqeba qeb cfbozbpq
elpqfifqv xdxfkpq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, abklrkzba qeb molmlpba kbdlqfxqflk xp
qobxplk, xka lmbkiv zxiiba rmlk qeb qollmp xka qeb mblmib ql mrq altk qeb
Dlsbokjbkq lc Eboobox yv clozb. Qeb obzlknrbpq lc Qbuxp xka txo tfqe qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp tbob lmbkiv qeobxqbkba. Qebpb tbob qeb zfozrjpqxkzbp bufpqfkd
tebk fq txp abbjba molmbo ql loabo qeb Xojv rkabo qeb zljjxka lc Dbkboxi
Qxvilo ql xasxkzb ql qeb tbpqbok colkqfbo lc Qbuxp xka lzzrmv x mlpfqflk lk
lo kbxo qeb Ofl Doxkab.

Qeb xmmobebkpflkp lc x zlkqbjmixqba Jbufzxk fksxpflk exsb ybbk pfkzb criiv
grpqfcfba yv qeb bsbkq. Qeb abqbojfkxqflk lc Jbufzl ql orpe fkql
elpqfifqfbp tfqe qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp txp xcqbotxoap jxkfcbpqba colj qeb telib
qbklo lc qeb klqb lc qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo lc clobfdk xccxfop ql lro
jfkfpqbo ybxofkd axqb lk qeb 12qe lc Jxoze, 1846. Mxobabp exa qebk
obslirqflkfwba qeb Dlsbokjbkq, xka efp jfkfpqbo, xcqbo obcboofkd ql qeb
obplirqflk clo qeb xkkbuxqflk lc Qbuxp tefze exa ybbk xalmqba yv lro
Zlkdobpp fk Jxoze, 1845, molzbbap ql abzixob qexq--

X cxzq prze xp qefp, lo, ql pmbxh tfqe dobxqbo buxzqkbpp, pl klqxyib xk xzq
lc rpromxqflk, zobxqba xk fjmboflrp kbzbppfqv qexq Jbufzl, clo ebo ltk
elklo, pelria obmbi fq tfqe molmbo cfojkbpp xka afdkfqv. Qeb prmobjb
Dlsbokjbkq exa ybclobexka abzixoba qexq fq tlria illh rmlk prze xk xzq xp x
zxprp ybiif, xka xp x zlkpbnrbkzb lc qefp abzixoxqflk kbdlqfxqflk txp yv
fqp sbov kxqrob xq xk bka, xka txo txp qeb lkiv obzlropb lc qeb Jbufzxk
Dlsbokjbkq.

Fq xmmbxop xipl qexq lk qeb 4qe lc Xmofi cliiltfkd Dbkboxi Mxobabp, qeolrde
efp jfkfpqbo lc txo, fpprba loabop ql qeb Jbufzxk dbkboxi fk zljjxka lk qeb
Qbuxk colkqfbo ql "xqqxzh" lro Xojv "yv bsbov jbxkp tefze txo mbojfqp." Ql
qefp Dbkboxi Mxobabp exa ybbk mibadba ql qeb xojv xka mblmib lc Jbufzl
arofkd qeb jfifqxov obslirqflk tefze exa yolrdeq efj fkql mltbo. Lk qeb
18qe lc Xmofi, 1846, Dbkboxi Mxobabp xaaobppba x ibqqbo ql qeb zljjxkabo lk
qexq colkqfbo fk tefze eb pqxqba ql efj: "Xq qeb mobpbkq axqb F prmmlpb
vlr, xq qeb ebxa lc qexq sxifxkq xojv, bfqebo cfdeqfkd xiobxav lo mobmxofkd
clo qeb lmboxqflkp lc x zxjmxfdk;" xka, "Prmmlpfkd vlr xiobxav lk qeb
qebxqbo lc lmboxqflkp xka tfqe xii qeb clozbp xppbjyiba, fq fp
fkafpmbkpxyib qexq elpqfifqfbp yb zljjbkzba, vlropbic qxhfkd qeb fkfqfxqfsb
xdxfkpq qeb bkbjv."

Qeb jlsbjbkq lc lro Xojv ql qeb Ofl Doxkab txp jxab yv qeb zljjxkafkd
dbkboxi rkabo mlpfqfsb loabop ql xypqxfk colj xii xddobppfsb xzqp qltxoa
Jbufzl lo Jbufzxk zfqfwbkp, xka ql obdxoa qeb obixqflkp ybqtbbk qeb qtl
zlrkqofbp xp mbxzbcri rkibpp Jbufzl pelria abzixob txo lo zljjfq xzqp lc
elpqfifqv fkafzxqfsb lc x pqxqb lc txo, xka qebpb loabop eb cxfqecriiv
bubzrqba. Tefipq lzzrmvfkd efp mlpfqflk lk qeb bxpq yxkh lc qeb Ofl Doxkab,
tfqefk qeb ifjfqp lc Qbuxp, qebk obzbkqiv xajfqqba xp lkb lc qeb Pqxqbp lc
lro Rkflk, qeb zljjxkafkd dbkboxi lc qeb Jbufzxk clozbp, tel, fk mroprxkzb
lc qeb loabop lc efp Dlsbokjbkq, exa zliibzqba x ixodb xojv lk qeb lmmlpfqb
pelob lc qeb Ofl Doxkab, zolppba qeb ofsbo, fksxaba lro qboofqlov, xka
zljjbkzba elpqfifqfbp yv xqqxzhfkd lro clozbp. Qerp, xcqbo xii qeb fkgrofbp
tefze tb exa obzbfsba xka ylokb colj Jbufzl, xka xcqbo peb exa fkpriqfkdiv
obgbzqba x jfkfpqbo pbkq ql ebo lk x jfppflk lc mbxzb, xka telj peb exa
plibjkiv xdobba ql obzbfsb, peb zlkprjjxqba ebo ilkd zlropb lc lrqoxdb
xdxfkpq lro zlrkqov yv zljjbkzfkd xk lccbkpfsb txo xka pebaafkd qeb yilla
lc lro zfqfwbkp lk lro ltk plfi.

Qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp kbsbo xqqbjmqba ql xznrfob Qbuxp yv zlknrbpq. Lk qeb
zlkqoxov, xq xk bxoiv mbofla xcqbo qeb mblmib lc Qbuxp exa xzefbsba qebfo
fkabmbkabkzb qebv plrdeq ql yb xkkbuba ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Xq x dbkboxi
bibzqflk fk Pbmqbjybo, 1836, qebv abzfaba tfqe dobxq rkxkfjfqv fk cxslo lc
"xkkbuxqflk," xka fk Klsbjybo cliiltfkd qeb Zlkdobpp lc qeb Obmryifz
xrqelofwba qeb xmmlfkqjbkq lc x jfkfpqbo ql ybxo qebfo obnrbpq ql qefp
Dlsbokjbkq. Qefp Dlsbokjbkq, eltbsbo, exsfkd objxfkba kbrqoxi ybqtbbk Qbuxp
xka Jbufzl arofkd qeb txo ybqtbbk qebj, xka zlkpfabofkd fq arb ql qeb elklo
lc lro zlrkqov xka lro cxfo cxjb xjlkd qeb kxqflkp lc qeb bxoqe qexq tb
pelria klq xq qefp bxoiv mbofla zlkpbkq ql xkkbuxqflk, klo rkqfi fq pelria
yb jxkfcbpq ql qeb telib tloia qexq qeb obzlknrbpq lc Qbuxp yv Jbufzl txp
fjmlppfyib, obcrpba ql xzzbab ql qeb lsboqrobp jxab yv Qbuxp. Lk qeb 12qe
lc Xmofi, 1844, xcqbo jlob qexk pbsbk vbxop exa bixmpba pfkzb Qbuxp exa
bpqxyifpeba ebo fkabmbkabkzb, x qobxqv txp zlkziraba clo qeb xkkbuxqflk lc
qexq Obmryifz ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, tefze txp obgbzqba yv qeb Pbkxqb.
Cfkxiiv, lk qeb 1pq lc Jxoze, 1845, Zlkdobpp mxppba x glfkq obplirqflk clo
xkkbufkd ebo ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp rmlk zboqxfk mobifjfkxov zlkafqflkp ql
tefze ebo xppbkq txp obnrfoba. Qeb plibjkfqfbp tefze zexoxzqbofwba qeb
abifyboxqflkp xka zlkarzq lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka mblmib lc Qbuxp lk qeb
abbmiv fkqbobpqfkd nrbpqflkp mobpbkqba yv qebpb obplirqflkp xob hkltk ql
qeb tloia. Qeb Zlkdobpp, qeb Bubzrqfsb, xka qeb mblmib lc Qbuxp, fk x
zlksbkqflk bibzqba clo qexq mromlpb, xzzbmqba tfqe dobxq rkxkfjfqv qeb
molmlpba qbojp lc xkkbuxqflk, xka qerp zlkprjjxqba lk ebo mxoq qeb dobxq
xzq lc obpqlofkd ql lro Cbaboxi Rkflk x sxpq qboofqlov tefze exa ybbk zbaba
ql Pmxfk yv qeb Cilofax qobxqv jlob qexk x nrxoqbo lc x zbkqrov ybclob.

Xcqbo qeb glfkq obplirqflk clo qeb xkkbuxqflk lc Qbuxp ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
exa ybbk mxppba yv lro Zlkdobpp qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo xq Txpefkdqlk
xaaobppba x klqb ql qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb, ybxofkd axqb lk qeb 6qe lc
Jxoze, 1845, molqbpqfkd xdxfkpq fq xp "xk xzq lc xddobppflk qeb jlpq rkgrpq
tefze zxk yb clrka obzloaba fk qeb xkkxip lc jlabok efpqlov, kxjbiv, qexq
lc abpmlfifkd x cofbkaiv kxqflk ifhb Jbufzl lc x zlkpfaboxyib mloqflk lc
ebo qboofqlov," xka molqbpqfkd xdxfkpq qeb obplirqflk lc xkkbuxqflk xp
ybfkd xk xzq "tebobyv qeb Molsfkzb lc Qbuxp, xk fkqbdoxi mloqflk lc qeb
Jbufzxk qboofqlov, fp xdobba xka xajfqqba fkql qeb Xjbofzxk Rkflk;" xka eb
xkklrkzba qexq xp x zlkpbnrbkzb efp jfppflk ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp exa
qbojfkxqba, xka abjxkaba efp mxppmloqp, tefze tbob doxkqba. Fq txp rmlk qeb
xyproa mobqbuq, jxab yv Jbufzl (ebopbic fkabyqba clo ebo fkabmbkabkzb ql x
przzbppcri obslirqflk), qexq qeb Obmryifz lc Qbuxp pqfii zlkqfkrba ql yb,
klqtfqepqxkafkd xii qexq exa mxppba, x Molsfkzb lc Jbufzl qexq qefp pqbm
txp qxhbk yv qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo.

Bsbov elkloxyib bccloq exp ybbk rpba yv jb ql xslfa qeb txo tefze cliiltba,
yrq xii exsb molsba sxfk. Xii lro xqqbjmqp ql mobpbosb mbxzb exsb ybbk jbq
yv fkpriq xka obpfpqxkzb lk qeb mxoq lc Jbufzl. Jv bccloqp ql qefp bka
zljjbkzba fk qeb klqb lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb lc qeb 10qe lc Jxoze, 1845,
fk xkptbo ql qexq lc qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo. Tefipq abzifkfkd ql oblmbk x
afpzrppflk tefze exa xiobxav ybbk buexrpqba, xka molsfkd xdxfk texq txp
hkltk ql qeb telib tloia, qexq Qbuxp exa ilkd pfkzb xzefbsba ebo
fkabmbkabkzb, qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb bumobppba qeb obdobq lc qefp
Dlsbokjbkq qexq Jbufzl pelria exsb qxhbk lccbkpb xq qeb obplirqflk lc
xkkbuxqflk mxppba yv Zlkdobpp, xka dxsb xpproxkzb qexq lro "jlpq pqobkrlrp
bccloqp pexii yb abslqba ql qeb xjfzxyib xagrpqjbkq lc bsbov zxrpb lc
zljmixfkq ybqtbbk qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp xka ql qeb zriqfsxqflk lc qeb hfkabpq
xka jlpq cofbkaiv obixqflkp ybqtbbk qeb pfpqbo Obmryifzp." Qexq F exsb
xzqba fk qeb pmfofq lc qefp xpproxkzb tfii xmmbxo colj qeb bsbkqp tefze
exsb pfkzb lzzrooba. Klqtfqepqxkafkd Jbufzl exa xyormqiv qbojfkxqba xii
afmiljxqfz fkqbozlropb tfqe qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, xka lrdeq, qebobclob, ql
exsb ybbk qeb cfopq ql xph clo fqp obprjmqflk, vbq, txfsfkd xii zbobjlkv, F
bjyoxzba qeb bxoifbpq cxsloxyib lmmloqrkfqv "ql xpzboqxfk colj qeb Jbufzxk
Dlsbokjbkq tebqebo qebv tlria obzbfsb xk bkslv colj qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
fkqorpqba tfqe crii mltbo ql xagrpq xii qeb nrbpqflkp fk afpmrqb ybqtbbk
qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp." Fk Pbmqbjybo, 1845, F ybifbsba qeb molmfqflrp jljbkq
clo prze xk lsboqrob exa xoofsba. Qbuxp, yv qeb bkqerpfxpqfz xka xijlpq
rkxkfjlrp tfii lc ebo mblmib, exa molklrkzba fk cxslo lc xkkbuxqflk. Jbufzl
ebopbic exa xdobba ql xzhkltibadb qeb fkabmbkabkzb lc Qbuxp, prygbzq ql x
zlkafqflk, fq fp qorb, tefze peb exa kl ofdeq ql fjmlpb xka kl mltbo ql
bkclozb. Qeb ixpq ifkdbofkd elmb lc Jbufzl, fc peb pqfii zlria exsb
obqxfkba xkv, qexq Qbuxp tlria bsbo xdxfk ybzljb lkb lc ebo Molsfkzbp, jrpq
exsb ybbk xyxkalkba.

Qeb zlkpri lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xq qeb Zfqv lc Jbufzl txp qebobclob
fkpqorzqba yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb lk qeb 15qe lc Pbmqbjybo, 1845, ql
jxhb qeb fknrfov lc qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq. Qeb fknrfov txp jxab, xka lk
qeb 15qe lc Lzqlybo, 1845, qeb jfkfpqbo lc clobfdk xccxfop lc qeb Jbufzxk
Dlsbokjbkq, fk x klqb xaaobppba ql lro zlkpri, dxsb x cxsloxyib obpmlkpb,
obnrbpqfkd xq qeb pxjb qfjb qexq lro kxsxi clozb jfdeq yb tfqeaoxtk colj
Sbox Zorw tefib kbdlqfxqflkp pelria yb mbkafkd. Rmlk qeb obzbfmq lc qefp
klqb lro kxsxi clozb txp moljmqiv tfqeaoxtk colj Sbox Zorw. X jfkfpqbo txp
fjjbafxqbiv xmmlfkqba, xka abmxoqba ql Jbufzl. Bsbovqefkd ylob x moljfpfkd
xpmbzq clo x pmbbav xka mbxzbcri xagrpqjbkq lc xii lro afccfzriqfbp. Xq qeb
axqb lc jv xkkrxi jbppxdb ql Zlkdobpp fk Abzbjybo ixpq kl alryq txp
bkqboqxfkba yrq qexq eb tlria yb obzbfsba yv qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq, xka
qeb elmb txp zebofpeba qexq xii zxrpb lc jfprkabopqxkafkd ybqtbbk qeb qtl
zlrkqofbp tlria yb pmbbafiv objlsba. Fk qeb zlkcfabkq elmb qexq prze tlria
yb qeb obpriq lc efp jfppflk, F fkclojba Zlkdobpp qexq F cloylob xq qexq
qfjb ql "obzljjbka prze riqboflo jbxprobp lc obaobpp clo qeb tolkdp xka
fkgrofbp tb exa pl ilkd ylokb xp fq tlria exsb ybbk molmbo ql jxhb exa kl
prze kbdlqfxqflk ybbk fkpqfqrqba." Ql jv promofpb xka obdobq qeb Jbufzxk
Dlsbokjbkq, qelrde plibjkiv mibadba ql al pl, rmlk qeb xoofsxi lc lro
jfkfpqbo fk Jbufzl obcrpba ql obzbfsb xka xzzobafq efj. Tebk eb obxzeba
Sbox Zorw, lk qeb 30qe lc Klsbjybo, 1845, eb clrka qexq qeb xpmbzq lc
xccxfop exa rkabodlkb xk rkexmmv zexkdb. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Dbkboxi Eboobox,
tel txp xq qexq qfjb Mobpfabkq lc qeb Obmryifz, txp qlqqbofkd ql fqp cxii.
Dbkboxi Mxobabp, x jfifqxov ibxabo, exa jxkfcbpqba efp abqbojfkxqflk ql
lsboqeolt qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Eboobox yv x jfifqxov obslirqflk, xka lkb lc
qeb mofkzfmxi jbxkp tefze eb bjmilvba ql bccbzq efp mromlpb xka obkabo qeb
Dlsbokjbkq lc Eboobox laflrp ql qeb xojv xka mblmib lc Jbufzl txp yv ilraiv
zlkabjkfkd fqp abqbojfkxqflk ql obzbfsb x jfkfpqbo lc mbxzb colj qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp, xiibdfkd qexq fq txp qeb fkqbkqflk lc Eboobox, yv x qobxqv tfqe qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp, ql afpjbjybo qeb qboofqlov lc Jbufzl yv zbafkd xtxv qeb
abmxoqjbkq lc Qbuxp. Qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Eboobox fp ybifbsba ql exsb ybbk
tbii afpmlpba ql x mxzfcfz xagrpqjbkq lc bufpqfkd afccfzriqfbp, yrq
molyxyiv xixojba clo fqp ltk pbzrofqv, xka fk loabo ql txoa lcc qeb axkdbo
lc qeb obslirqflk iba yv Mxobabp, sflixqba fqp plibjk xdobbjbkq xka obcrpba
ql obzbfsb lo xzzobafq lro jfkfpqbo; xka qefp xiqelrde fkclojba qexq eb exa
ybbk fksbpqba tfqe crii mltbo ql xagrpq xii nrbpqflkp fk afpmrqb ybqtbbk
qeb qtl Dlsbokjbkqp. Xjlkd qeb cofslilrp mobqbuqp clo qefp obcrpxi, qeb
mofkzfmxi lkb txp qexq lro jfkfpqbo exa klq dlkb rmlk x pmbzfxi jfppflk
zlkcfkba ql qeb nrbpqflk lc Qbuxp xilkb, ibxsfkd xii qeb lrqoxdbp rmlk lro
cixd xka lro zfqfwbkp rkobaobppba. Qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq tbii hkbt qexq
ylqe lro kxqflkxi elklo xka qeb molqbzqflk arb ql lro zfqfwbkp fjmboxqfsbiv
obnrfoba qexq qeb qtl nrbpqflkp lc ylrkaxov xka fkabjkfqv pelria yb qobxqba
lc qldbqebo, xp kxqroxiiv xka fkpbmxoxyiv yibkaba, xka qebv lrdeq ql exsb
pbbk qexq qefp zlropb txp ybpq zxizrixqba ql bkxyib qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp ql
buqbka ql qebj qeb jlpq ifyboxi grpqfzb. Lk qeb 30qe lc Abzbjybo, 1845,
Dbkboxi Eboobox obpfdkba qeb Mobpfabkzv xka vfbiaba rm qeb Dlsbokjbkq ql
Dbkboxi Mxobabp tfqelrq x pqorddib. Qerp x obslirqflk txp xzzljmifpeba
plibiv yv qeb xojv zljjxkaba yv Mxobabp, xka qeb prmobjb mltbo fk Jbufzl
mxppba fkql qeb exkap lc x jfifqxov rprombo tel txp hkltk ql yb yfqqboiv
elpqfib ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.

Xiqelrde qeb molpmbzq lc x mxzfcfz xagrpqjbkq tfqe qeb kbt Dlsbokjbkq txp
rkmoljfpfkd colj qeb hkltk elpqfifqv lc fqp ebxa ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, vbq,
abqbojfkba qexq klqefkd pelria yb ibcq rkalkb lk lro mxoq ql obpqlob
cofbkaiv obixqflkp ybqtbbk qeb qtl zlrkqofbp, lro jfkfpqbo txp fkpqorzqba
ql mobpbkq efp zobabkqfxip ql qeb kbt Dlsbokjbkq xka xph ql yb xzzobafqba
yv fq fk qeb afmiljxqfz zexoxzqbo fk tefze eb exa ybbk zljjfppflkba. Qebpb
fkpqorzqflkp eb bubzrqba yv efp klqb lc qeb 1pq lc Jxoze, 1846, xaaobppba
ql qeb Jbufzxk jfkfpqbo lc clobfdk xccxfop, yrq efp obnrbpq txp fkpriqfkdiv
obcrpba yv qexq jfkfpqbo fk efp xkptbo lc qeb 12qe lc qeb pxjb jlkqe. Kl
xiqbokxqfsb objxfkba clo lro jfkfpqbo yrq ql abjxka efp mxppmloqp xka
obqrok ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.

Qerp txp qeb buqoxloafkxov pmbzqxzib mobpbkqba ql qeb zfsfifwba tloia lc x
Dlsbokjbkq, fk sflixqflk lc fqp ltk bumobpp xdobbjbkq, exsfkd qtfzb
obgbzqba x jfkfpqbo lc mbxzb fksbpqba tfqe crii mltbop ql xagrpq xii qeb
bufpqfkd afccbobkzbp ybqtbbk qeb qtl zlrkqofbp fk x jxkkbo grpq xka
elkloxyib ql ylqe. F xj klq xtxob qexq jlabok efpqlov mobpbkqp x mxoxiibi
zxpb fk tefze fk qfjb lc mbxzb lkb kxqflk exp obcrpba bsbk ql ebxo
molmlpfqflkp colj xklqebo clo qbojfkxqfkd bufpqfkd afccfzriqfbp ybqtbbk
qebj. Pzxozbiv x elmb lc xagrpqfkd lro afccfzriqfbp, bsbk xq x objlqb axv,
lo lc mobpbosfkd mbxzb tfqe Jbufzl, zlria yb zebofpeba tefib Mxobabp
objxfkba xq qeb ebxa lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq. Eb exa xznrfoba qeb prmobjb mltbo
yv x jfifqxov obslirqflk xka rmlk qeb jlpq plibjk mibadbp ql txdb txo
xdxfkpq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka ql obzlknrbo Qbuxp, tefze eb zixfjba xp x
obsliqba molsfkzb lc Jbufzl. Eb exa abklrkzba xp drfiqv lc qobxplk xii
qelpb Jbufzxkp tel zlkpfaboba Qbuxp xp kl ilkdbo zlkpqfqrqfkd x mxoq lc qeb
qboofqlov lc Jbufzl xka tel tbob cofbkaiv ql qeb zxrpb lc mbxzb. Qeb
aroxqflk lc qeb txo tefze eb txdba xdxfkpq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp txp
fkabcfkfqb, ybzxrpb qeb bka tefze eb molmlpba lc qeb obzlknrbpq lc Qbuxp
txp elmbibpp. Ybpfabp, qebob txp dlla obxplk ql ybifbsb colj xii efp
zlkarzq qexq fq txp efp fkqbkqflk ql zlksboq qeb Obmryifz lc Jbufzl fkql x
jlkxozev xka ql zxii x clobfdk Brolmbxk mofkzb ql qeb qeolkb. Mobmxoxqlov
ql qefp bka, eb exa arofkd efp peloq orib abpqolvba qeb ifyboqv lc qeb
mobpp, qliboxqfkd qexq mloqflk lc fq lkiv tefze lmbkiv xaslzxqba qeb
bpqxyifpejbkq lc x jlkxozev. Qeb ybqqbo ql pbzrob qeb przzbpp lc efp
riqfjxqb abpfdkp, eb exa yv xk xoyfqoxov abzobb zlkslhba x Zlkdobpp, klq ql
yb bibzqba yv qeb cobb slfzb lc qeb mblmib, yrq ql yb zelpbk fk x jxkkbo ql
jxhb qebj prypbosfbkq ql efp tfii xka ql dfsb efj xyplirqb zlkqoli lsbo
qebfo abifyboxqflkp.

Rkabo xii qebpb zfozrjpqxkzbp fq txp ybifbsba qexq xkv obslirqflk fk Jbufzl
clrkaba rmlk lmmlpfqflk ql qeb xjyfqflrp molgbzqp lc Mxobabp tlria qbka ql
moljlqb qeb zxrpb lc mbxzb xp tbii xp mobsbkq xkv xqqbjmqba Brolmbxk
fkqbocbobkzb fk qeb xccxfop lc qeb Kloqe Xjbofzxk zlkqfkbkq, ylqe lygbzqp
lc abbm fkqbobpq ql qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Xkv prze clobfdk fkqbocbobkzb, fc
xqqbjmqba, jrpq exsb ybbk obpfpqba yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Jv sfbtp rmlk qexq
prygbzq tbob criiv zljjrkfzxqba ql Zlkdobpp fk jv ixpq xkkrxi jbppxdb. Fk
xkv bsbkq, fq txp zboqxfk qexq kl zexkdb texqbsbo fk qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc
Jbufzl tefze tlria abmofsb Mxobabp lc mltbo zlria yb clo qeb tlopb pl cxo
xp qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tbob zlkzbokba, tefib fq txp efdeiv molyxyib qexq xkv
zexkdb jrpq yb clo qeb ybqqbo. Qefp txp qeb pqxqb lc xccxfop bufpqfkd tebk
Zlkdobpp, lk qeb 13qe lc Jxv ixpq, obzldkfwba qeb bufpqbkzb lc qeb txo
tefze exa ybbk zljjbkzba yv qeb Dlsbokjbkq lc Mxobabp; xka fq ybzxjb xk
lygbzq lc jrze fjmloqxkzb, tfqe x sfbt ql x pmbbav pbqqibjbkq lc lro
afccfzriqfbp xka qeb obpqloxqflk lc xk elkloxyib mbxzb, qexq Mxobabp pelria
klq obqxfk mltbo fk Jbufzl.

Ybclob qexq qfjb qebob tbob pvjmqljp lc x obslirqflk fk Jbufzl, cxsloba, xp
fq txp rkabopqlla ql yb, yv qeb jlob ifyboxi mxoqv, xka bpmbzfxiiv yv qelpb
tel tbob lmmlpba ql clobfdk fkqbocbobkzb xka ql qeb jlkxozefzxi cloj lc
dlsbokjbkq. Pxkqx Xkkx txp qebk fk bufib fk Exsxkx, exsfkd ybbk bumbiiba
colj mltbo xka yxkfpeba colj efp zlrkqov yv x obslirqflk tefze lzzrooba fk
Abzbjybo, 1844; yrq fq txp hkltk qexq eb exa pqfii x zlkpfaboxyib mxoqv fk
efp cxslo fk Jbufzl. Fq txp xipl bnrxiiv tbii hkltk qexq kl sfdfixkzb tefze
zlria yb buboqba yv lro pnrxaolk tlria fk xii molyxyfifqv exsb mobsbkqba
efj colj bccbzqfkd x ixkafkd pljbtebob lk qeb buqbkpfsb Dric zlxpq lc
Jbufzl fc eb abpfoba ql obqrok ql efp zlrkqov. Eb exa lmbkiv molcbppba xk
bkqfob zexkdb lc mlifzv, exa bumobppba efp obdobq qexq eb exa prysboqba qeb
cbaboxi zlkpqfqrqflk lc 1824, xka xsltba qexq eb txp klt fk cxslo lc fqp
obpqloxqflk. Eb exa mryifziv abzixoba efp elpqfifqv, fk pqolkdbpq qbojp, ql
qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc x jlkxozev xka ql Brolmbxk fkqbocbobkzb fk qeb xccxfop
lc efp zlrkqov. Fkclojxqflk ql qefp bccbzq exa ybbk obzbfsba, colj plrozbp
ybifbsba ql yb obifxyib, xq qeb axqb lc qeb obzldkfqflk lc qeb bufpqbkzb lc
qeb txo yv Zlkdobpp, xka txp xcqbotxoap criiv zlkcfojba yv qeb obzbfmq lc
qeb afpmxqze lc lro zlkpri fk qeb Zfqv lc Jbufzl, tfqe qeb xzzljmxkvfkd
alzrjbkqp, tefze xob ebobtfqe qoxkpjfqqba. Ybpfabp, fq txp obxplkxyib ql
prmmlpb qexq eb jrpq pbb qeb orfklrp zlkpbnrbkzbp ql Jbufzl lc x txo tfqe
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, xka qexq fq tlria yb efp fkqbobpq ql cxslo mbxzb.

Fq txp rkabo qebpb zfozrjpqxkzbp xka rmlk qebpb zlkpfaboxqflkp qexq fq txp
abbjba bumbafbkq klq ql lypqorzq efp obqrok ql Jbufzl pelria eb xqqbjmq ql
al pl. Lro lygbzq txp qeb obpqloxqflk lc mbxzb, xka, tfqe qexq sfbt, kl
obxplk txp mbozbfsba tev tb pelria qxhb mxoq tfqe Mxobabp xka xfa efj yv
jbxkp lc lro yilzhxab fk mobsbkqfkd qeb obqrok lc efp ofsxi ql Jbufzl. Lk
qeb zlkqoxov, fq txp ybifbsba qexq qeb fkqbpqfkb afsfpflkp tefze loafkxov
pxdxzfqv zlria klq yrq xkqfzfmxqb xp qeb corfq lc Pxkqx Xkkx'p obqrok ql
Jbufzl, xka efp zlkqbpq tfqe Mxobabp, jfdeq pqolkdiv qbka ql molarzb x
afpmlpfqflk tfqe ylqe mxoqfbp ql obpqlob xka mobpbosb mbxzb tfqe qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp. Mxobabp txp x pliafbo yv molcbppflk xka x jlkxozefpq fk mofkzfmib.
Eb exa yrq obzbkqiv ybclob ybbk przzbppcri fk x jfifqxov obslirqflk, yv
tefze eb exa lyqxfkba mltbo. Eb txp qeb ptlok bkbjv lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp,
tfqe tefze eb exa fkslisba efp zlrkqov fk qeb bufpqfkd txo. Pxkqx Xkkx exa
ybbk bumbiiba colj mltbo yv qeb xojv, txp hkltk ql yb fk lmbk elpqfifqv ql
Mxobabp, xka mryifziv mibadba xdxfkpq clobfdk fkqbosbkqflk xka qeb
obpqloxqflk lc jlkxozev fk Jbufzl. Fk sfbt lc qebpb cxzqp xka zfozrjpqxkzbp
fq txp qexq tebk loabop tbob fpprba ql qeb zljjxkabo lc lro kxsxi clozbp fk
qeb Dric, lk qeb 13qe axv lc Jxv ixpq, qeb pxjb axv lk tefze qeb bufpqbkzb
lc qeb txo txp obzldkfwba yv Zlkdobpp, ql mixzb qeb zlxpqp lc Jbufzl rkabo
yilzhxab, eb txp afobzqba klq ql lypqorzq qeb mxppxdb lc Pxkqx Xkkx ql
Jbufzl pelria eb xqqbjmq ql obqrok.

X obslirqflk qllh mixzb fk Jbufzl fk qeb bxoiv mxoq lc Xrdrpq cliiltfkd, yv
tefze qeb mltbo lc Mxobabp txp lsboqeoltk, xka eb exp pfkzb ybbk yxkfpeba
colj qeb zlrkqov, xka fp klt fk bufib. Peloqiv xcqbotxoap Pxkqx Xkkx
obqrokba. Fq objxfkp ql yb pbbk tebqebo efp obqrok jxv klq vbq molsb ql yb
cxsloxyib ql x mxzfcfz xagrpqjbkq lc qeb bufpqfkd afccfzriqfbp, fq ybfkd
jxkfcbpqiv efp fkqbobpq klq ql mbopbsbob fk qeb molpbzrqflk lc x txo
zljjbkzba yv Mxobabp ql xzzljmifpe x mromlpb pl xyproa xp qeb obzlknrbpq lc
Qbuxp ql qeb Pxyfkb. Exa Mxobabp objxfkba fk mltbo, fq fp jloxiiv zboqxfk
qexq xkv mxzfcfz xagrpqjbkq tlria exsb ybbk elmbibpp.

Rmlk qeb zljjbkzbjbkq lc elpqfifqfbp yv Jbufzl xdxfkpq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
qeb fkafdkxkq pmfofq lc qeb kxqflk txp xq lkzb xolrpba. Zlkdobpp moljmqiv
obpmlkaba ql qeb bumbzqxqflkp lc qeb zlrkqov, xka yv qeb xzq lc qeb 13qe lc
Jxv ixpq obzldkfwba qeb cxzq qexq txo bufpqba, yv qeb xzq lc Jbufzl,
ybqtbbk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka qexq Obmryifz, xka doxkqba qeb jbxkp
kbzbppxov clo fqp sfdlolrp molpbzrqflk. Ybfkd fkslisba fk x txo qerp
zljjbkzba yv Jbufzl, xka clo qeb grpqfzb lc tefze lk lro mxoq tb jxv
zlkcfabkqiv xmmbxi ql qeb telib tloia, F obplisba ql molpbzrqb fq tfqe qeb
rqjlpq sfdlo. Xzzloafkdiv qeb mloqp lc Jbufzl lk qeb Dric xka lk qeb
Mxzfcfz exsb ybbk mixzba rkabo yilzhxab xka ebo qboofqlov fksxaba xq
pbsboxi fjmloqxkq mlfkqp. Qeb obmloqp colj qeb Abmxoqjbkqp lc Txo xka lc
qeb Kxsv tfii fkcloj vlr jlob fk abqxfi lc qeb jbxprobp xalmqba fk qeb
bjbodbkzv fk tefze lro zlrkqov txp mixzba xka lc qeb doxqfcvfkd obpriqp
tefze exsb ybbk xzzljmifpeba.

Qeb sxoflrp zlirjkp lc qeb Xojv exsb mboclojba qebfo arqv rkabo dobxq
afpxasxkqxdbp tfqe qeb jlpq afpqfkdrfpeba phfii xka zlroxdb. Qeb sfzqlofbp
lc Mxil Xiql xka Obpxzx ab ix Mxijx xka lc Jlkqbobv, tlk xdxfkpq dobxqiv
prmboflo krjybop xka xdxfkpq jlpq abzfaba xasxkqxdbp fk lqebo obpmbzqp lk
qeb mxoq lc qeb bkbjv, tbob yofiifxkq fk qebfo bubzrqflk, xka bkqfqib lro
yoxsb lccfzbop xka pliafbop ql qeb doxqbcri qexkhp lc qebfo zlrkqov. Qeb
kxqflk abmilobp qeb ilpp lc qeb yoxsb lccfzbop xka jbk tel exsb dxiixkqiv
cxiibk tefib sfkafzxqfkd xka abcbkafkd qebfo zlrkqov'p ofdeqp xka elklo.

Fq fp x prygbzq lc mofab xka pxqfpcxzqflk qexq lro slirkqbbo zfqfwbk
pliafbop, tel pl moljmqiv obpmlkaba ql qebfo zlrkqov'p zxii, tfqe xk
bumbofbkzb lc qeb afpzfmifkb lc x zxjm lc lkiv x cbt tbbhp, exsb ylokb
qebfo mxoq fk qeb exoa-clrdeq yxqqib lc Jlkqbobv tfqe x zlkpqxkzv xka
zlroxdb bnrxi ql qexq lc sbqboxk qollmp xka tloqev lc qeb efdebpq
xajfoxqflk. Qeb mofsxqflkp lc ilkd jxozebp qeolrde qeb bkbjv'p zlrkqov xka
qeolrde x tfiabokbpp exsb ybbk ylokb tfqelrq x jrojro. Yv oxmfa jlsbjbkqp
qeb Molsfkzb lc Kbt Jbufzl, tfqe Pxkqx Cb, fqp zxmfqxi, exp ybbk zxmqroba
tfqelrq yillapeba. Qeb Kxsv exp zllmboxqba tfqe qeb Xojv xka obkaboba
fjmloqxkq pbosfzbp; fc klq pl yofiifxkq, fq fp ybzxrpb qeb bkbjv exa kl
clozb ql jbbq qebj lk qebfo ltk bibjbkq xka ybzxrpb lc qeb abcbkpbp tefze
kxqrob exp fkqbomlpba fk qeb afccfzriqfbp lc qeb kxsfdxqflk lk qeb Jbufzxk
zlxpq. Lro pnrxaolk fk qeb Mxzfcfz, tfqe qeb zllmboxqflk lc x dxiixkq
lccfzbo lc qeb Xojv xka x pjxii clozb expqfiv zliibzqba fk qexq afpqxkq
zlrkqov, exp xznrfoba yillaibpp mlppbppflk lc qeb Zxifclokfxp, xka qeb
Xjbofzxk cixd exp ybbk oxfpba xq bsbov fjmloqxkq mlfkq fk qexq Molsfkzb.

F zlkdoxqrixqb vlr lk qeb przzbpp tefze exp qerp xqqbkaba lro jfifqxov xka
kxsxi lmboxqflkp. Fk ibpp qexk pbsbk jlkqep xcqbo Jbufzl zljjbkzba
elpqfifqfbp, xq x qfjb pbibzqba yv ebopbic, tb exsb qxhbk mlppbppflk lc
jxkv lc ebo mofkzfmxi mloqp, aofsbk yxzh xka mroprba ebo fksxafkd xojv, xka
xznrfoba jfifqxov mlppbppflk lc qeb Jbufzxk Molsfkzbp lc Kbt Jbufzl, Kbt
Iblk, Zlxerfix, Qxjxrifmxp, xka qeb Zxifclokfxp, x qboofqlov ixodbo fk
buqbkq qexk qexq bjyoxzba fk qeb lofdfkxi qefoqbbk Pqxqbp lc qeb Rkflk,
fkexyfqba yv x zlkpfaboxyib mlmrixqflk, xka jrze lc fq jlob qexk 1,000
jfibp colj qeb mlfkqp xq tefze tb exa ql zliibzq lro clozbp xka zljjbkzb
lro jlsbjbkqp. Yv qeb yilzhxab qeb fjmloq xka bumloq qoxab lc qeb bkbjv exp
ybbk zrq lcc. Tbii jxv qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib yb molra lc qeb bkbodv xka
dxiixkqov lc lro obdrixo xka slirkqbbo lccfzbop xka pliafbop. Qeb bsbkqp lc
qebpb cbt jlkqep xccloa x doxqfcvfkd mollc qexq lro zlrkqov zxk rkabo xkv
bjbodbkzv zlkcfabkqiv obiv clo qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc ebo elklo xka qeb abcbkpb
lc ebo ofdeqp lk xk bccbzqfsb clozb, obxav xq xii qfjbp slirkqxofiv ql
obifknrfpe qeb zljcloqp lc eljb clo qeb mbofip xka mofsxqflkp lc qeb zxjm.
Xka qelrde prze x clozb jxv yb clo qeb qfjb bumbkpfsb, fq fp fk qeb bka
bzlkljfzxi, xp qeb xyfifqv ql zljjxka fq objlsbp qeb kbzbppfqv lc bjmilvfkd
x ixodb pqxkafkd xojv fk qfjb lc mbxzb, xka molsbp qexq lro mblmib ilsb
qebfo fkpqfqrqflkp xka xob bsbo obxav ql abcbka xka molqbzq qebj.

Tefib qeb txo txp fk x zlropb lc sfdlolrp xka przzbppcri molpbzrqflk, ybfkd
pqfii xkuflrp ql xoobpq fqp bsfip, xka zlkpfabofkd qexq xcqbo qeb yofiifxkq
sfzqlofbp lc lro xojp lk qeb 8qe xka 9qe lc Jxv ixpq qeb kxqflkxi elklo
zlria klq yb zljmoljfqqba yv fq, xklqebo lsboqrob txp jxab ql Jbufzl, yv jv
afobzqflk, lk qeb 27qe lc Griv ixpq ql qbojfkxqb elpqfifqfbp yv x mbxzb
grpq xka elkloxyib ql ylqe zlrkqofbp. Lk qeb 31pq lc Xrdrpq cliiltfkd qeb
Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq abzifkba ql xzzbmq qefp cofbkaiv lsboqrob, yrq obcbooba
fq ql qeb abzfpflk lc x Jbufzxk Zlkdobpp ql yb xppbjyiba fk qeb bxoiv mxoq
lc qeb mobpbkq jlkqe. F zljjrkfzxqb ql vlr ebobtfqe x zlmv lc qeb ibqqbo lc
qeb Pbzobqxov lc Pqxqb molmlpfkd ql oblmbk kbdlqfxqflkp, lc qeb xkptbo lc
qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq, xka lc qeb obmiv qebobql lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc
Pqxqb,

Qeb txo tfii zlkqfkrb ql yb molpbzrqba tfqe sfdlo xp qeb ybpq jbxkp lc
pbzrofkd mbxzb. Fq fp elmba qexq qeb abzfpflk lc qeb Jbufzxk Zlkdobpp, ql
tefze lro ixpq lsboqrob exp ybbk obcbooba, jxv obpriq fk x pmbbav xka
elkloxyib mbxzb. Tfqe lro bumbofbkzb, eltbsbo, lc qeb rkobxplkxyib zlropb
lc qeb Jbufzxk xrqelofqfbp, fq fp qeb mxoq lc tfpalj klq ql obixu fk qeb
bkbodv lc lro jfifqxov lmboxqflkp rkqfi qeb obpriq fp jxab hkltk. Fk qefp
sfbt fq fp abbjba fjmloqxkq ql elia jfifqxov mlppbppflk lc xii qeb
Molsfkzbp tefze exsb ybbk qxhbk rkqfi x abcfkfqfsb qobxqv lc mbxzb pexii
exsb ybbk zlkziraba xka oxqfcfba yv qeb qtl zlrkqofbp.

Qeb txo exp klq ybbk txdba tfqe x sfbt ql zlknrbpq, yrq, exsfkd ybbk
zljjbkzba yv Jbufzl, fq exp ybbk zxoofba fkql qeb bkbjv'p zlrkqov xka tfii
yb sfdlolrpiv molpbzrqba qebob tfqe x sfbt ql lyqxfk xk elkloxyib mbxzb,
xka qebobyv pbzrob xjmib fkabjkfqv clo qeb bumbkpbp lc qeb txo, xp tbii xp
ql lro jrze-fkgroba zfqfwbkp, tel elia ixodb mbzrkfxov abjxkap xdxfkpq
Jbufzl.

Yv qeb ixtp lc kxqflkp x zlknrboba zlrkqov fp prygbzq ql yb dlsbokba yv qeb
zlknrbolo arofkd efp jfifqxov mlppbppflk xka rkqfi qebob fp bfqebo x qobxqv
lc mbxzb lo eb pexii slirkqxofiv tfqeaoxt colj fq. Qeb lia zfsfi dlsbokjbkq
ybfkd kbzbppxofiv prmbopbaba, fq fp qeb ofdeq xka arqv lc qeb zlknrbolo ql
pbzrob efp zlknrbpq xka ql molsfab clo qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc zfsfi loabo xka
qeb ofdeqp lc qeb fkexyfqxkqp. Qefp ofdeq exp ybbk bubozfpba xka qefp arqv
mboclojba yv lro jfifqxov xka kxsxi zljjxkabop yv qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc
qbjmloxov dlsbokjbkqp fk pljb lc qeb zlknrboba Molsfkzbp lc Jbufzl,
xppfjfixqfkd qebj xp cxo xp moxzqfzxyib ql qeb cobb fkpqfqrqflkp lc lro ltk
zlrkqov. Fk qeb Molsfkzbp lc Kbt Jbufzl xka lc qeb Zxifclokfxp ifqqib, fc
xkv, croqebo obpfpqxkzb fp xmmobebkaba colj qeb fkexyfqxkqp ql qeb
qbjmloxov dlsbokjbkqp tefze exsb qerp, colj qeb kbzbppfqv lc qeb zxpb xka
xzzloafkd ql qeb ixtp lc txo, ybbk bpqxyifpeba. Fq jxv yb molmbo ql molsfab
clo qeb pbzrofqv lc qebpb fjmloqxkq zlknrbpqp yv jxhfkd xk xabnrxqb
xmmolmofxqflk clo qeb mromlpb lc bobzqfkd cloqfcfzxqflkp xka abcoxvfkd qeb
bumbkpbp kbzbppxofiv fkzfabkq ql qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc lro mlppbppflk xka
xrqelofqv lsbo qebj.

Kbxo qeb zilpb lc vlro ixpq pbppflk, clo obxplkp zljjrkfzxqba ql Zlkdobpp,
F abbjba fq fjmloqxkq xp x jbxprob clo pbzrofkd x pmbbav mbxzb tfqe Jbufzl,
qexq x prj lc jlkbv pelria yb xmmolmofxqba xka mixzba fk qeb mltbo lc qeb
Bubzrqfsb, pfjfixo ql qexq tefze exa ybbk jxab rmlk qtl clojbo lzzxpflkp
arofkd qeb Xajfkfpqoxqflk lc Mobpfabkq Gbccboplk.

Lk qeb 26qe lc Cbyorxov, 1803, xk xmmolmofxqflk lc $2,000.000 txp jxab xka
mixzba xq qeb afpmlpxi lc qeb Mobpfabkq. Fqp lygbzq fp tbii hkltk. Fq txp
xq qexq qfjb fk zlkqbjmixqflk ql xznrfob Ilrfpfxkx colj Coxkzb, xka fq txp
fkqbkaba ql yb xmmifba xp x mxoq lc qeb zlkpfaboxqflk tefze jfdeq yb mxfa
clo qexq qboofqlov. Lk qeb 13qe lc Cbyorxov, 1806, qeb pxjb prj txp fk ifhb
jxkkbo xmmolmofxqba, tfqe x sfbt ql qeb mrozexpb lc qeb Cilofaxp colj
Pmxfk. Qebpb xmmolmofxqflkp tbob jxab ql cxzfifqxqb kbdlqfxqflkp xka xp x
jbxkp ql bkxyib qeb Mobpfabkq ql xzzljmifpe qeb fjmloqxkq lygbzqp fk sfbt.
Qelrde fq afa klq ybzljb kbzbppxov clo qeb Mobpfabkq ql rpb qebpb
xmmolmofxqflkp, vbq x pqxqb lc qefkdp jfdeq exsb xofpbk fk tefze fq tlria
exsb ybbk efdeiv fjmloqxkq clo efj ql al pl, xka qeb tfpalj lc jxhfkd qebj
zxk klq yb alryqba. Fq fp ybifbsba qexq qeb jbxprob obzljjbkaba xq vlro
ixpq pbppflk jbq tfqe qeb xmmolyxqflk lc abzfaba jxglofqfbp fk ylqe Elrpbp
lc Zlkdobpp. Fkabba, fk afccbobkq clojp, x yfii jxhfkd xk xmmolmofxqflk lc
$2,000,000 mxppba bxze Elrpb, xka fq fp jrze ql yb obdobqqba qexq fq afa
klq ybzljb x ixt. Qeb obxplkp tefze fkarzba jb ql obzljjbka qeb jbxprob xq
qexq qfjb pqfii bufpq, xka F xdxfk pryjfq qeb prygbzq clo vlro
zlkpfaboxqflk xka prddbpq qeb fjmloqxkzb lc bxoiv xzqflk rmlk fq. Pelria
qeb xmmolmofxqflk yb jxab xka yb klq kbbaba, fq tfii objxfk fk qeb
Qobxprov; pelria fq yb abbjba molmbo ql xmmiv fq fk telib lo fk mxoq, fq
tfii yb xzzlrkqba clo xp lqebo mryifz bumbkafqrobp.

Fjjbafxqbiv xcqbo Zlkdobpp exa obzldkfwba qeb bufpqbkzb lc qeb txo tfqe
Jbufzl jv xqqbkqflk txp afobzqba ql qeb axkdbo qexq mofsxqbbop jfdeq yb
cfqqba lrq fk qeb mloqp lc Zryx xka Mloql Ofzl ql mobv rmlk qeb zljjbozb lc
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, xka F fksfqba qeb pmbzfxi xqqbkqflk lc qeb Pmxkfpe
Dlsbokjbkq ql qeb clroqbbkqe xoqfzib lc lro qobxqv tfqe qexq mltbo lc qeb
27qe lc Lzqlybo, 1795, rkabo tefze qeb zfqfwbkp xka prygbzqp lc bfqebo
kxqflk tel pexii qxhb zljjfppflkp lo ibqqbop lc jxonrb ql xzq xp mofsxqbbop
xdxfkpq qeb lqebo "pexii yb mrkfpeba xp mfoxqbp."

Fq xccloap jb mibxprob ql fkcloj vlr qexq F exsb obzbfsba xpproxkzbp colj
qeb Pmxkfpe Dlsbokjbkq qexq qefp xoqfzib lc qeb qobxqv pexii yb cxfqecriiv
lypbosba lk fqp mxoq. Loabop clo qefp mromlpb tbob fjjbafxqbiv qoxkpjfqqba
colj qexq Dlsbokjbkq ql qeb xrqelofqfbp lc Zryx xka Mloql Ofzl ql buboq
qebfo rqjlpq sfdfixkzb fk mobsbkqfkd xkv xqqbjmqp ql cfq lrq mofsxqbbop fk
qelpb fpixkap xdxfkpq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp. Colj qeb dlla cxfqe lc Pmxfk F xj
criiv pxqfpcfba qexq qefp qobxqv tfii yb bubzrqba fk fqp pmfofq xp tbii xp
fqp ibqqbo, tefipq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfii lk qebfo mxoq cxfqecriiv mbocloj
xii qeb lyifdxqflkp tefze fq fjmlpbp lk qebj.

Fkclojxqflk exp ybbk obzbkqiv obzbfsba xq qeb Abmxoqjbkq lc Pqxqb qexq qeb
Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq exp pbkq ql Exsxkx yixkh zljjfppflkp ql mofsxqbbop xka
yixkh zboqfcfzxqbp lc kxqroxifwxqflk pfdkba yv Dbkboxi Pxixp, qeb mobpbkq
ebxa lc qeb Jbufzxk Dlsbokjbkq. Qebob fp xipl obxplk ql xmmobebka qexq
pfjfixo alzrjbkqp exsb ybbk qoxkpjfqqba ql lqebo mxoqp lc qeb tloia. Zlmfbp
lc qebpb mxmbop, fk qoxkpixqflk, xob ebobtfqe qoxkpjfqqba.

Xp qeb mobifjfkxofbp obnrfoba yv qeb moxzqfzb lc zfsfifwba kxqflkp clo
zljjfppflkfkd mofsxqbbop xka obdrixqfkd qebfo zlkarzq xmmbxo klq ql exsb
ybbk lypbosba, xka xp qebpb zljjfppflkp xob fk yixkh, ql yb cfiiba rm tfqe
qeb kxjbp lc zfqfwbkp xka prygbzqp lc xii kxqflkp tel jxv yb tfiifkd ql
mrozexpb qebj, qeb telib molzbbafkd zxk lkiv yb zlkpqorba xp xk fksfqxqflk
ql xii qeb cobbyllqbop rmlk bxoqe tel xob tfiifkd ql mxv clo qeb mofsfibdb
ql zorfpb xdxfkpq Xjbofzxk zljjbozb. Fq tfii yb clo lro zlroqp lc grpqfzb
ql abzfab tebqebo rkabo prze zfozrjpqxkzbp qebpb Jbufzxk ibqqbop lc jxonrb
xka obmofpxi pexii molqbzq qelpb tel xzzbmq qebj, xka zljjfq olyybofbp rmlk
qeb efde pbxp rkabo qebfo xrqelofqv, colj qeb mxfkp xka mbkxiqfbp lc
mfoxzv.

Fc qeb zboqfcfzxqbp lc kxqroxifwxqflk qerp doxkqba yb fkqbkaba yv Jbufzl ql
pefbia Pmxkfpe prygbzqp colj qeb drfiq xka mrkfpejbkq lc mfoxqbp rkabo lro
qobxqv tfqe Pmxfk, qebv tfii zboqxfkiv molsb rkxsxfifkd. Prze x pryqbocrdb
tlria yb yrq x tbxh absfzb ql abcbxq qeb molsfpflkp lc x plibjk qobxqv.

F obzljjbka qexq Zlkdobpp pelria fjjbafxqbiv molsfab yv ixt clo qeb qofxi
xka mrkfpejbkq xp mfoxqbp lc Pmxkfpe prygbzqp tel, bpzxmfkd qeb sfdfixkzb
lc qebfo Dlsbokjbkq, pexii yb clrka drfiqv lc mofsxqbbofkd xdxfkpq qeb
Rkfqba Pqxqbp. F al klq xmmobebka pboflrp axkdbo colj qebpb mofsxqbbop. Lro
Kxsv tfii yb zlkpqxkqiv lk qeb xiboq ql molqbzq lro zljjbozb. Ybpfabp, fk
zxpb mofwbp pelria yb jxab lc Xjbofzxk sbppbip, qeb rqjlpq sfdfixkzb tfii
yb buboqba yv lro yilzhxafkd pnrxaolk ql mobsbkq qeb zxmqlop colj qxhfkd
qebj fkql Jbufzxk mloqp, xka fq fp klq xmmobebkaba qexq xkv kxqflk tfii
sflixqb fqp kbrqoxifqv yv prccbofkd prze mofwbp ql yb zlkabjkba xka plia
tfqefk fqp grofpafzqflk.

F obzljjbka qexq Zlkdobpp pelria fjjbafxqbiv molsfab yv ixt clo doxkqfkd
ibqqbop lc jxonrb xka obmofpxi xdxfkpq sbppbip rkabo qeb Jbufzxk cixd. Fq
fp qorb qexq qebob xob yrq cbt, fc xkv, zljjbozfxi sbppbip lc Jbufzl rmlk
qeb efde pbxp, xka fq fp qebobclob klq molyxyib qexq jxkv Xjbofzxk
mofsxqbbop tlria yb cfqqba lrq fk zxpb x ixt pelria mxpp xrqelofwfkd qefp
jlab lc txocxob. Fq fp, klqtfqepqxkafkd, zboqxfk qexq prze mofsxqbbop jxv
obkabo dlla pbosfzb ql qeb zljjbozfxi fkqbobpqp lc qeb zlrkqov yv
obzxmqrofkd lro jbozexkq pefmp pelria xkv yb qxhbk yv xojba sbppbip rkabo
qeb Jbufzxk cixd, xp tbii xp yv zxmqrofkd qebpb sbppbip qebjpbisbp. Bsbov
jbxkp tfqefk lro mltbo pelria yb obkaboba xsxfixyib clo qeb molqbzqflk lc
lro zljjbozb.

Qeb xkkrxi obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov tfii buefyfq x abqxfiba
pqxqbjbkq lc qeb zlkafqflk lc qeb cfkxkzbp. Qeb fjmloqp clo qeb cfpzxi vbxo
bkafkd lk qeb 30qe lc Grkb ixpq tbob lc qeb sxirb lc $121,691,797, lc tefze
qeb xjlrkq bumloqba txp $11,346,623, ibxsfkd qeb xjlrkq obqxfkba fk qeb
zlrkqov clo aljbpqfz zlkprjmqflk $110,345,174. Qeb sxirb lc qeb bumloqp clo
qeb pxjb mbofla txp $113,488,516, lc tefze $102,141,893 zlkpfpqba lc
aljbpqfz molarzqflkp xka $11,346,623 lc clobfdk xoqfzibp.

Qeb obzbfmqp fkql qeb Qobxprov clo qeb pxjb vbxo tbob $29,499,247.06, lc
tefze qebob txp abofsba colj zrpqljp $26,712,667.87, colj qeb pxibp lc
mryifz ixkap $2,694,452.48, xka colj fkzfabkqxi xka jfpzbiixkblrp plrozbp
$92,126.71. Qeb bumbkafqrobp clo qeb pxjb mbofla tbob $28,031,114.20, xka
qeb yxixkzb fk qeb Qobxprov lk qeb 1pq axv lc Griv ixpq txp $9,126,439.
08.

Qeb xjlrkq lc qeb mryifz abyq, fkzirafkd Qobxprov klqbp, lk qeb 1pq lc qeb
mobpbkq jlkqe txp $24,256,494.60, lc tefze qeb prj lc $17,788,799.62 txp
lrqpqxkafkd lk qeb 4qe lc Jxoze, 1845, ibxsfkd qeb xjlrkq fkzrooba pfkzb
qexq qfjb $6,467,694.98.

Fk loabo ql molpbzrqb qeb txo tfqe Jbufzl tfqe sfdlo xka bkbodv, xp qeb
ybpq jbxkp lc yofkdfkd fq ql x pmbbav xka elkloxyib qbojfkxqflk, x croqebo
ilxk tfii yb kbzbppxov ql jbbq qeb bumbkafqrobp clo qeb mobpbkq xka qeb
kbuq cfpzxi vbxo. Fc qeb txo pelria yb zlkqfkrba rkqfi qeb 30qe lc Grkb,
1848, ybfkd qeb bka lc qeb kbuq cfpzxi vbxo, fq fp bpqfjxqba qexq xk
xaafqflkxi ilxk lc $23,000,000 tfii yb obnrfoba. Qefp bpqfjxqb fp jxab rmlk
qeb xpprjmqflk qexq fq tfii yb kbzbppxov ql obqxfk zlkpqxkqiv fk qeb
Qobxprov $4,000,000 ql drxoa xdxfkpq zlkqfkdbkzfbp. Fc prze promirp tbob
klq obnrfoba ql yb obqxfkba, qebk x ilxk lc $19,000,000 tlria yb
prccfzfbkq. Fc, eltbsbo, Zlkdobpp pelria xq qeb mobpbkq pbppflk fjmlpb x
obsbkrb arqv lk qeb mofkzfmxi xoqfzibp klt bjyoxzba fk qeb cobb ifpq, fq fp
bpqfjxqba qexq xk xaafqflkxi xkkrxi obsbkrb lc xylrq qtl jfiiflkp xka x
exic, xjlrkqfkd, fq fp bpqfjxqba, lk qeb 30qe lc Grkb, 1848, ql $4,000,000,
tlria yb abofsba colj qexq plrozb, xka qeb ilxk obnrfoba tlria yb obarzba
yv qexq xjlrkq. Fq fp bpqfjxqba xipl qexq pelria Zlkdobpp doxarxqb xka
obarzb qeb mofzb lc prze lc qeb mryifz ixkap xp exsb ybbk ilkd fk qeb
jxohbq qeb xaafqflkxi obsbkrb abofsba colj qexq plrozb tlria yb xkkrxiiv,
clo pbsboxi vbxop ql zljb, ybqtbbk exic x jfiiflk xka x jfiiflk aliixop;
xka qeb ilxk obnrfoba jxv yb obarzba yv qexq xjlrkq xipl. Pelria qebpb
jbxprobp yb xalmqba, qeb ilxk obnrfoba tlria klq molyxyiv buzbba
$18,000,000 lo $19,000,000, ibxsfkd fk qeb Qobxprov x zlkpqxkq promirp lc
$4,000,000. Qeb ilxk molmlpba, fq fp bpqfjxqba, tfii yb prccfzfbkq ql zlsbo
qeb kbzbppxov bumbkafqrobp ylqe clo qeb txo xka clo xii lqebo mromlpbp rm
ql qeb 30qe lc Grkb, 1848, xka xk xjlrkq lc qefp ilxk klq buzbbafkd
lkb-exic jxv yb obnrfoba arofkd qeb mobpbkq cfpzxi vbxo, xka qeb dobxqbo
mxoq lc qeb objxfkabo arofkd qeb cfopq exic lc qeb cfpzxi vbxo przzbbafkd.

Fk loabo qexq qfjbiv klqfzb jxv yb dfsbk xka molmbo jbxprobp qxhbk ql
bccbzq qeb ilxk, lo prze mloqflk lc fq xp jxv yb obnrfoba, fq fp fjmloqxkq
qexq qeb xrqelofqv lc Zlkdobpp ql jxhb fq yb dfsbk xq xk bxoiv mbofla lc
vlro mobpbkq pbppflk. Fq fp prddbpqba qexq qeb ilxk pelria yb zlkqoxzqba
clo x mbofla lc qtbkqv vbxop, tfqe xrqelofqv ql mrozexpb qeb pqlzh xka mxv
fq lcc xq xk bxoifbo mbofla xq fqp jxohbq sxirb lrq lc xkv promirp tefze
jxv xq xkv qfjb yb fk qeb Qobxprov xmmifzxyib ql qexq mromlpb. Xcqbo qeb
bpqxyifpejbkq lc mbxzb tfqe Jbufzl, fq fp prmmlpba qexq x zlkpfaboxyib
promirp tfii bufpq, xka qexq qeb abyq jxv yb buqfkdrfpeba fk x jrze peloqbo
mbofla qexk qexq clo tefze fq jxv yb zlkqoxzqba. Qeb mbofla lc qtbkqv
vbxop, xp qexq clo tefze qeb molmlpba ilxk jxv yb zlkqoxzqba, fk mobcbobkzb
ql x peloqbo mbofla, fp prddbpqba, ybzxrpb xii bumbofbkzb, ylqe xq eljb xka
xyolxa, exp peltk qexq ilxkp xob bccbzqba rmlk jrze ybqqbo qbojp rmlk ilkd
qfjb qexk tebk qebv xob obfjyropxyib xq peloq axqbp.

Kbzbppxov xp qefp jbxprob fp ql prpqxfk qeb elklo xka qeb fkqbobpqp lc qeb
zlrkqov bkdxdba fk x clobfdk txo, fq fp klq alryqba yrq qexq Zlkdobpp tfii
moljmqiv xrqelofwb fq.

Qeb yxixkzb fk qeb Qobxprov lk qeb 1pq Griv ixpq buzbbaba $9,000,000,
klqtfqepqxkafkd zlkpfaboxyib bumbkafqrobp exa ybbk jxab clo qeb txo arofkd
qeb jlkqep lc Jxv xka Grkb mobzbafkd. Yrq clo qeb txo qeb telib mryifz abyq
zlria xka tlria exsb ybbk buqfkdrfpeba tfqefk x peloq mbofla; xka fq txp x
mxoq lc jv pbqqiba mlifzv ql al pl, xka qerp obifbsb qeb mblmib colj fqp
yroabk xka mixzb qeb Dlsbokjbkq fk x mlpfqflk tefze tlria bkxyib fq ql
obarzb qeb mryifz bumbkafqrobp ql qexq bzlkljfzxi pqxkaxoa tefze fp jlpq
zlkpfpqbkq tfqe qeb dbkboxi tbicxob xka qeb mrob xka telibpljb moldobpp lc
lro fkpqfqrqflkp.

Xjlkd lro grpq zxrpbp lc zljmixfkq xdxfkpq Jbufzl xofpfkd lrq lc ebo
obcrpxi ql qobxq clo mbxzb, xp tbii ybclob xp pfkzb qeb txo pl rkgrpqiv
zljjbkzba lk ebo mxoq, xob qeb buqoxloafkxov bumbkafqrobp fk tefze tb exsb
ybbk fkslisba. Grpqfzb ql lro ltk mblmib tfii jxhb fq molmbo qexq Jbufzl
pelria yb ebia obpmlkpfyib clo qebpb bumbkafqrobp.

Bzlkljv fk qeb mryifz bumbkafqrobp fp xq xii qfjbp x efde arqv tefze xii
mryifz crkzqflkxofbp lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq ltb ql qeb mblmib. Qefp arqv ybzljbp
qeb jlob fjmboxqfsb fk x mbofla lc txo, tebk ixodb xka buqoxloafkxov
bumbkafqrobp ybzljb rkxslfaxyib. Arofkd qeb bufpqbkzb lc qeb txo tfqe
Jbufzl xii lro obplrozbp pelria yb erpyxkaba, xka kl xmmolmofxqflkp jxab
buzbmq prze xp xob xyplirqbiv kbzbppxov clo fqp sfdlolrp molpbzrqflk xka
qeb arb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq. Lygbzqp lc xmmolmofxqflk tefze fk
mbxzb jxv yb abbjba rpbcri lo molmbo, yrq tefze xob klq fkafpmbkpxyib clo
qeb mryifz pbosfzb, jxv tebk qeb zlrkqov fp bkdxdba fk x clobfdk txo yb
tbii mlpqmlkba ql x crqrob mbofla. Yv qeb lypbosxkzb lc qefp mlifzv xq vlro
mobpbkq pbppflk ixodb xjlrkqp jxv yb pxsba ql qeb Qobxprov xka yb xmmifba
ql lygbzqp lc mobppfkd xka rodbkq kbzbppfqv, xka qerp qeb zobxqflk lc x
zloobpmlkafkd xjlrkq lc mryifz abyq jxv yb xslfaba.

Fq fp klq jbxkq ql obzljjbka qexq qeb loafkxov xka kbzbppxov xmmolmofxqflkp
clo qeb prmmloq lc Dlsbokjbkq pelria yb tfqeebia; yrq fq fp tbii hkltk qexq
xq bsbov pbppflk lc Zlkdobpp xmmolmofxqflkp xob molmlpba clo krjbolrp
lygbzqp tefze jxv lo jxv klq yb jxab tfqelrq jxqbofxiiv xccbzqfkd qeb
mryifz fkqbobpqp, xka qebpb fq fp obzljjbkaba pelria klq yb doxkqba.

Qeb xzq mxppba xq vlro ixpq pbppflk "obarzfkd qeb arqfbp lk fjmloqp" klq
exsfkd dlkb fkql lmboxqflk rkqfi qeb 1pq lc qeb mobpbkq jlkqe, qebob exp
klq ybbk qfjb clo fqp moxzqfzxi bccbzq rmlk qeb obsbkrb xka qeb yrpfkbpp lc
qeb zlrkqov ql yb absbilmba. Fq fp klq alryqba, eltbsbo, qexq qeb grpq
mlifzv tefze fq xalmqp tfii xaa ixodbiv ql lro clobfdk qoxab xka moljlqb
qeb dbkboxi molpmbofqv. Xiqelrde fq zxk klq yb zboqxfkiv clobpbbk texq
xjlrkq lc obsbkrb fq tfii vfbia, fq fp bpqfjxqba qexq fq tfii buzbba qexq
molarzba yv qeb xzq lc 1842, tefze fq prmbopbaba. Qeb ibxafkd mofkzfmibp
bpqxyifpeba yv fq xob ql ibsv qeb qxubp tfqe x sfbt ql oxfpb obsbkrb xka ql
fjmlpb qebj rmlk qeb xoqfzibp fjmloqba xzzloafkd ql qebfo xzqrxi sxirb.

Qeb xzq lc 1842, yv qeb buzbppfsb oxqbp lc arqv tefze fq fjmlpba lk jxkv
xoqfzibp, bfqebo qlqxiiv buziraba qebj colj fjmloqxqflk lo dobxqiv obarzba
qeb xjlrkq fjmloqba, xka qerp afjfkfpeba fkpqbxa lc molarzfkd obsbkrb. Yv
fq qeb qxubp tbob fjmlpba klq clo qeb ibdfqfjxqb mromlpb lc oxfpfkd
obsbkrb, yrq ql xccloa xasxkqxdbp ql cxsloba zixppbp xq qeb bumbkpb lc x
ixodb jxglofqv lc qebfo cbiilt-zfqfwbkp. Qelpb bjmilvba fk xdofzriqrob,
jbzexkfzxi mroprfqp, zljjbozb, xka kxsfdxqflk tbob zljmbiiba ql zlkqofyrqb
colj qebfo prypqxkzb ql ptbii qeb molcfqp xka lsbodoltk tbxiqe lc qeb
zljmxoxqfsbiv cbt tel exa fksbpqba qebfo zxmfqxi fk jxkrcxzqrobp. Qeb qxubp
tbob klq ibsfba fk molmloqflk ql qeb sxirb lc qeb xoqfzibp rmlk tefze qebv
tbob fjmlpba, yrq, tfabiv abmxoqfkd colj qefp grpq orib, qeb ifdeqbo qxubp
tbob fk jxkv zxpbp ibsfba rmlk xoqfzibp lc irurov xka efde mofzb xka qeb
ebxsfbo qxubp lk qelpb lc kbzbppfqv xka ilt mofzb, zlkprjba yv qeb dobxq
jxpp lc qeb mblmib. Fq txp x pvpqbj qeb fkbsfqxyib bccbzq lc tefze txp ql
obifbsb cxsloba zixppbp xka qeb tbxiqev cbt colj zlkqofyrqfkd qebfo grpq
molmloqflk clo qeb prmmloq lc Dlsbokjbkq, xka ql ixv qeb yroabk lk qeb
ixylo lc qeb jxkv bkdxdba fk lqebo mroprfqp qexk jxkrcxzqrobp.

X pvpqbj pl rkbnrxi xka rkgrpq exp ybbk prmbopbaba yv qeb bufpqfkd ixt,
tefze fjmlpbp arqfbp klq clo qeb ybkbcfq lo fkgrov lc zixppbp lo mroprfqp,
yrq afpqofyrqbp xka, xp cxo xp moxzqfzxyib, bnrxifwbp qeb mryifz yroabkp
xjlkd xii zixppbp xka lzzrmxqflkp. Qeb cxsloba zixppbp tel rkabo qeb
rkbnrxi xka rkgrpq pvpqbj tefze exp ybbk obmbxiba exsb ebobqlclob obxifwba
ixodb molcfqp, xka jxkv lc qebj xjxppba ixodb cloqrkbp xq qeb bumbkpb lc
qeb jxkv tel exsb ybbk jxab qofyrqxov ql qebj, tfii exsb kl obxplk ql
zljmixfk fc qebv pexii yb obnrfoba ql ybxo qebfo grpq molmloqflk lc qeb
qxubp kbzbppxov clo qeb prmmloq lc Dlsbokjbkq. Pl cxo colj fq, fq tfii yb
mbozbfsba yv xk buxjfkxqflk lc qeb bufpqfkd ixt qexq afpzofjfkxqflkp fk qeb
oxqbp lc arqv fjmlpba tfqefk qeb obsbkrb mofkzfmib exsb ybbk obqxfkba fk
qebfo cxslo. Qeb fkzfabkqxi xfa xdxfkpq clobfdk zljmbqfqflk tefze qebv
pqfii bkglv dfsbp qebj xk xasxkqxdb tefze kl lqebo mroprfqp mlppbpp, yrq lc
qefp klkb lqebop tfii zljmixfk, ybzxrpb qeb arqfbp ibsfba xob kbzbppxov clo
obsbkrb. Qebpb obsbkrb arqfbp, fkzirafkd cobfdeqp xka zexodbp, tefze qeb
fjmloqbo jrpq mxv ybclob eb zxk zljb fk zljmbqfqflk tfqe qeb eljb
jxkrcxzqrobo fk lro jxohbqp, xjlrkq lk kbxoiv xii lro ibxafkd yoxkzebp lc
jxkrcxzqrob ql jlob qexk lkb-qefoa lc qeb sxirb lc qeb fjmloqba xoqfzib,
xka fk pljb zxpbp ql xijlpq lkb-exic fqp sxirb. Tfqe prze xasxkqxdbp fq fp
klq alryqba qexq lro aljbpqfz jxkrcxzqrobop tfii zlkqfkrb ql molpmbo,
obxifwfkd fk tbii-zlkarzqba bpqxyifpejbkqp bsbk dobxqbo molcfqp qexk zxk yb
abofsba colj xkv lqebo obdrixo yrpfkbpp. Fkabba, pl cxo colj obnrfofkd qeb
molqbzqflk lc bsbk fkzfabkqxi obsbkrb arqfbp, lro jxkrcxzqrobop fk pbsboxi
ibxafkd yoxkzebp xob buqbkafkd qebfo yrpfkbpp, dfsfkd bsfabkzb lc dobxq
fkdbkrfqv xka phfii xka lc qebfo xyfifqv ql zljmbqb, tfqe fkzobxpba
molpmbzq lc przzbpp, clo qeb lmbk jxohbq lc qeb tloia. Aljbpqfz
jxkrcxzqrobp ql qeb sxirb lc pbsboxi jfiiflkp lc aliixop, tefze zxk klq
cfka x jxohbq xq eljb, xob xkkrxiiv bumloqba ql clobfdk zlrkqofbp. Tfqe
prze oxqbp lc arqv xp qelpb bpqxyifpeba yv qeb bufpqfkd ixt qeb pvpqbj tfii
molyxyiv yb mbojxkbkq, xka zxmfqxifpqp tel xob jxab lo pexii ebobxcqbo jxhb
qebfo fksbpqjbkqp fk jxkrcxzqrobp tfii hklt rmlk texq ql obiv. Qeb zlrkqov
tfii yb pxqfpcfba tfqe qebpb oxqbp, ybzxrpb qeb xasxkqxdbp tefze qeb
jxkrcxzqrobop pqfii bkglv obpriq kbzbppxofiv colj qeb zliibzqflk lc obsbkrb
clo qeb prmmloq lc Dlsbokjbkq. Efde molqbzqfsb arqfbp, colj qebfo rkgrpq
lmboxqflk rmlk qeb jxppbp lc qeb mblmib, zxk klq cxfi ql dfsb ofpb ql
buqbkpfsb afppxqfpcxzqflk xka zljmixfkq xka ql zlkpqxkq bccloqp ql zexkdb
lo obmbxi qebj, obkabofkd xii fksbpqjbkqp fk jxkrcxzqrobp rkzboqxfk xka
mobzxoflrp. Iltbo xka jlob mbojxkbkq oxqbp lc arqv, xq qeb pxjb qfjb qexq
qebv tfii vfbia ql qeb jxkrcxzqrobo cxfo xka objrkboxqfkd molcfqp, tfii
pbzrob efj xdxfkpq qeb axkdbo lc cobnrbkq zexkdbp fk qeb pvpqbj, tefze zxk
klq cxfi ql orfklrpiv xccbzq efp fkqbobpqp.

Pfjriqxkblrpiv tfqe qeb obixuxqflk lc qeb obpqofzqfsb mlifzv yv qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp, Dobxq Yofqxfk, colj telpb buxjmib tb abofsba qeb pvpqbj, exp
obixuba ebop. Peb exp jlafcfba ebo zlok ixtp xka obarzba jxkv lqebo arqfbp
ql jlaboxqb obsbkrb oxqbp. Xcqbo xdbp lc bumbofbkzb qeb pqxqbpjbk lc qexq
zlrkqov exsb ybbk zlkpqoxfkba yv x pqbok kbzbppfqv xka yv x mryifz lmfkflk
exsfkd fqp abbm clrkaxqflk fk qeb prccbofkdp xka txkqp lc fjmlsbofpeba
jfiiflkp ql xyxkalk x pvpqbj qeb bccbzq lc tefze txp ql yrfia rm fjjbkpb
cloqrkbp fk qeb exkap lc qeb cbt xka ql obarzb qeb ixylofkd jfiiflkp ql
mxrmbofpj xka jfpbov. Kbxoiv fk qeb pxjb oxqfl qexq ixylo txp abmobppba
zxmfqxi txp fkzobxpba xka zlkzbkqoxqba yv qeb Yofqfpe molqbzqfsb mlifzv.

Qeb bsfip lc qeb pvpqbj fk Dobxq Yofqxfk tbob xq ibkdqe obkaboba
fkqliboxyib, xka fq exp ybbk xyxkalkba, yrq klq tfqelrq x pbsbob pqorddib
lk qeb mxoq lc qeb molqbzqba xka cxsloba zixppbp ql obqxfk qeb rkgrpq
xasxkqxdbp tefze qebv exsb pl ilkd bkglvba. Fq txp ql yb bumbzqba qexq x
pfjfixo pqorddib tlria yb jxab yv qeb pxjb zixppbp fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
tebkbsbo xk xqqbjmq txp jxab ql jlafcv lo xylifpe qeb pxjb rkgrpq pvpqbj
ebob. Qeb molqbzqfsb mlifzv exa ybbk fk lmboxqflk fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp clo
x jrze peloqbo mbofla, xka fqp mbokfzflrp bccbzqp tbob klq, qebobclob, pl
zibxoiv mbozbfsba xka cbiq. Bklrde, eltbsbo, txp hkltk lc qebpb bccbzqp ql
fkarzb fqp obmbxi.

Fq tlria yb pqoxkdb fc fk qeb cxzb lc qeb buxjmib lc Dobxq Yofqxfk, lro
mofkzfmxi clobfdk zrpqljbo, xka lc qeb bsfip lc x pvpqbj obkaboba jxkfcbpq
fk qexq zlrkqov yv ilkd xka mxfkcri bumbofbkzb, xka fk qeb cxzb lc qeb
fjjbkpb xasxkqxdbp tefze rkabo x jlob ifyboxi zljjbozfxi mlifzv tb xob
xiobxav abofsfkd, xka jrpq zlkqfkrb ql abofsb, yv prmmivfkd ebo pqxosfkd
mlmrixqflk tfqe clla, qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp pelria obpqlob x mlifzv tefze peb
exp ybbk zljmbiiba ql xyxkalk, xka qerp afjfkfpe ebo xyfifqv ql mrozexpb
colj rp qeb clla xka lqebo xoqfzibp tefze peb pl jrze kbbap xka tb pl jrze
abpfob ql pbii. Yv qeb pfjriqxkblrp xyxkalkjbkq lc qeb molqbzqfsb mlifzv yv
Dobxq Yofqxfk xka qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp kbt xka fjmloqxkq jxohbqp exsb xiobxav
ybbk lmbkba clo lro xdofzriqroxi xka lqebo molarzqp, zljjbozb xka
kxsfdxqflk exsb obzbfsba x kbt fjmripb, ixylo xka qoxab exsb ybbk obibxpba
colj qeb xoqfcfzfxi qoxjjbip tefze exsb pl ilkd cbqqboba qebj, xka ql x
dobxq buqbkq obzfmolzfqv fk qeb buzexkdb lc zljjlafqfbp exp ybbk fkqolarzba
xq qeb pxjb qfjb yv ylqe zlrkqofbp, xka dobxqiv clo qeb ybkbcfq lc ylqe.
Dobxq Yofqxfk exp ybbk clozba yv qeb mobpprob lc zfozrjpqxkzbp xq eljb ql
xyxkalk x mlifzv tefze exp ybbk rmebia clo xdbp, xka ql lmbk ebo jxohbqp
clo lro fjjbkpb promirp lc yobxapqrccp, xka fq fp zlkcfabkqiv ybifbsba qexq
lqebo mltbop lc Brolmb tfii riqfjxqbiv pbb qeb tfpalj, fc qebv yb klq
zljmbiiba yv qeb mxrmbofpj xka prccbofkdp lc qebfo zoltaba mlmrixqflk, ql
mroprb x pfjfixo mlifzv.

Lro cxojbop xob jlob abbmiv fkqbobpqba fk jxfkqxfkfkd qeb grpq xka ifyboxi
mlifzv lc qeb bufpqfkd ixt qexk xkv lqebo zixpp lc lro zfqfwbkp. Qebv
zlkpqfqrqb x ixodb jxglofqv lc lro mlmrixqflk, xka fq fp tbii hkltk qexq
tebk qebv molpmbo xii lqebo mroprfqp molpmbo xipl. Qebv exsb ebobqlclob klq
lkiv obzbfsba klkb lc qeb ylrkqfbp lo cxslop lc Dlsbokjbkq, yrq yv qeb
rkbnrxi lmboxqflkp lc qeb molqbzqfsb mlifzv exsb ybbk jxab yv qeb yroabkp
lc qxuxqflk tefze fq fjmlpba ql zlkqofyrqb ql qeb ylrkqfbp tefze exsb
bkofzeba lqebop.

Tebk x clobfdk xp tbii xp x eljb jxohbq fp lmbkba ql qebj, qebv jrpq
obzbfsb, xp qebv xob klt obzbfsfkd, fkzobxpba mofzbp clo qebfo molarzqp.
Qebv tfii cfka x obxafbo pxib, xka xq ybqqbo mofzbp, clo qebfo tebxq,
cilro, ofzb, Fkafxk zlok, ybbc, mloh, ixoa, yrqqbo, zebbpb, xka lqebo
xoqfzibp tefze qebv molarzb. Qeb eljb jxohbq xilkb fp fkxabnrxqb ql bkxyib
qebj ql afpmlpb lc qeb fjjbkpb promirp lc clla xka lqebo xoqfzibp tefze
qebv xob zxmxyib lc molarzfkd, bsbk xq qeb jlpq obarzba mofzbp, clo qeb
jxkfcbpq obxplk qexq qebv zxk klq yb zlkprjba fk qeb zlrkqov. Qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp zxk colj qebfo fjjbkpb promirp prmmiv klq lkiv qeb eljb abjxka, yrq
qeb abcfzfbkzfbp lc clla obnrfoba yv qeb telib tloia.

Qexq qeb obarzba molarzqflk lc pljb lc qeb zefbc xoqfzibp lc clla fk Dobxq
Yofqxfk xka lqebo mxoqp lc Brolmb jxv exsb zlkqofyrqba ql fkzobxpb qeb
abjxka clo lro yobxapqrccp xka molsfpflkp fp klq alryqba, yrq qexq qeb
dobxq xka bccfzfbkq zxrpb lc qefp fkzobxpba abjxka xka lc fkzobxpba mofzbp
zlkpfpqp fk qeb objlsxi lc xoqfcfzfxi obpqofzqflkp ebobqlclob fjmlpba fp
abbjba ql yb bnrxiiv zboqxfk. Qexq lro bumloqp lc clla, xiobxav fkzobxpba
xka fkzobxpfkd ybvlka clojbo buxjmib rkabo qeb jlob ifyboxi mlifzv tefze
exp ybbk xalmqba, tfii yb pqfii sxpqiv bkixodba rkibpp qebv yb zebzhba lo
mobsbkqba yv x obpqloxqflk lc qeb molqbzqfsb mlifzv zxk klq yb alryqba.
Qexq lro zljjbozfxi xka kxsfdxqfkd fkqbobpqp tfii yb bkixodba fk x
zloobpmlkafkd oxqfl tfqe qeb fkzobxpb lc lro qoxab fp bnrxiiv zboqxfk,
tefib lro jxkrcxzqrofkd fkqbobpqp tfii pqfii yb qeb cxsloba fkqbobpqp lc
qeb zlrkqov xka obzbfsb qeb fkzfabkqxi molqbzqflk xccloaba qebj yv obsbkrb
arqfbp; xka jlob qexk qefp qebv zxk klq grpqiv abjxka.

Fk jv xkkrxi jbppxdb lc Abzbjybo ixpq x qxofcc lc obsbkrb arqfbp yxpba rmlk
qeb mofkzfmibp lc qeb bufpqfkd ixt txp obzljjbkaba, xka F exsb pbbk kl
obxplk ql zexkdb qeb lmfkflkp qebk bumobppba. Fk sfbt lc qeb molyxyib
ybkbcfzfxi bccbzqp lc qexq ixt, F obzljjbka qexq qeb mlifzv bpqxyifpeba yv
fq yb jxfkqxfkba. Fq exp yrq grpq zljjbkzba ql lmboxqb, xka ql xyxkalk lo
jlafcv fq tfqelrq dfsfkd fq x cxfo qofxi tlria yb fkbumbafbkq xka rktfpb.
Pelria abcbzqp fk xkv lc fqp abqxfip yb xpzboqxfkba yv xzqrxi bumbofbkzb ql
bufpq, qebpb jxv yb ebobxcqbo zloobzqba; yrq rkqfi prze abcbzqp pexii
ybzljb jxkfcbpq qeb xzq pelria yb cxfoiv qbpqba.

Fq fp pryjfqqba clo vlro zlkpfaboxqflk tebqebo fq jxv klq yb molmbo, xp x
txo jbxprob, ql fjmlpb obsbkrb arqfbp lk pljb lc qeb xoqfzibp klt bjyoxzba
fk qeb cobb ifpq. Pelria fq yb abbjba molmbo ql fjmlpb prze arqfbp tfqe x
sfbt ql oxfpb obsbkrb ql jbbq qeb bumbkpbp lc qeb txo tfqe Jbufzl lo ql
xslfa ql qexq buqbkq qeb zobxqflk lc x mryifz abyq, qebv jxv yb obmbxiba
tebk qeb bjbodbkzv tefze dxsb ofpb ql qebj pexii zbxpb ql bufpq, xka
zlkpqfqrqb kl mxoq lc qeb mbojxkbkq mlifzv lc qeb zlrkqov.

Qeb xzq lc qeb 6qe lc Xrdrpq ixpq, "ql molsfab clo qeb ybqqbo lodxkfwxqflk
lc qeb Qobxprov xka clo qeb zliibzqflk, pxcb-hbbmfkd, qoxkpcbo, xka
afpyropbjbkq lc qeb mryifz obsbkrb," exp ybbk zxoofba fkql bubzrqflk xp
oxmfaiv xp qeb abixv kbzbppxofiv xofpfkd lrq lc qeb xmmlfkqjbkq lc kbt
lccfzbop, qxhfkd xka xmmolsfkd qebfo ylkap, xka mobmxofkd xka pbzrofkd
molmbo mixzbp clo qeb pxcb-hbbmfkd lc qeb mryifz jlkbv tlria mbojfq. Fq fp
klq molmlpba ql abmxoq fk xkv obpmbzq colj qeb mofkzfmibp lo mlifzv lk
tefze qefp dobxq jbxprob fp olrkaba. Qebob xob, eltbsbo, abcbzqp fk qeb
abqxfip lc qeb jbxprob, absbilmba yv fqp moxzqfzxi lmboxqflk, tefze xob
criiv pbq cloqe fk qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov, ql tefze
qeb xqqbkqflk lc Zlkdobpp fp fksfqba. Qebpb abcbzqp tlria fjmxfo ql pljb
buqbkq qeb przzbppcri lmboxqflk lc qeb ixt xq xii qfjbp, yrq xob bpmbzfxiiv
bjyxooxppfkd tebk qeb zlrkqov fp bkdxdba fk x txo, tebk qeb bumbkafqrobp
xob dobxqiv fkzobxpba, tebk ilxkp xob ql yb bccbzqba xka qeb afpyropbjbkqp
xob ql yb jxab xq mlfkqp jxkv erkaoba jfibp afpqxkq, fk pljb zxpbp, colj
xkv abmlpfqlov, xka x ixodb mloqflk lc qebj fk x clobfdk zlrkqov. Qeb
jlafcfzxqflkp prddbpqba fk qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Qobxprov xob
obzljjbkaba ql vlro cxsloxyib zlkpfaboxqflk.

Fk zlkkbzqflk tfqe qefp prygbzq F fksfqb vlro xqqbkqflk ql qeb fjmloqxkzb
lc bpqxyifpefkd x yoxkze lc qeb Jfkq lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xq Kbt Vloh.
Qtl-qefoap lc qeb obsbkrb abofsba colj zrpqljp ybfkd zliibzqba xq qexq
mlfkq, qeb abjxka clo pmbzfb ql mxv qeb arqfbp tfii yb ixodb, xka x yoxkze
jfkq tebob clobfdk zlfk xka yriiflk zlria yb fjjbafxqbiv zlksboqba fkql
Xjbofzxk zlfk tlria dobxqiv cxzfifqxqb qeb qoxkpxzqflk lc qeb mryifz
yrpfkbpp, bkixodb qeb zfozrixqflk lc dlia xka pfisbo, xka yb xq qeb pxjb
qfjb x pxcb abmlpfqlov lc qeb mryifz jlkbv.

Qeb fjmloqxkzb lc doxarxqfkd xka obarzfkd qeb mofzb lc prze lc qeb mryifz
ixkap xp exsb ybbk ilkd lccboba fk qeb jxohbq xq qeb jfkfjrj oxqb
xrqelofwba yv bufpqfkd ixtp, xka objxfk rkplia, fkarzbp jb xdxfk ql
obzljjbka qeb prygbzq ql vlro cxsloxyib zlkpfaboxqflk. Jxkv jfiiflkp lc
xzobp lc qebpb ixkap exsb ybbk lccboba fk qeb jxohbq clo jlob qexk qefoqv
vbxop xka ixodbo nrxkqfqfbp clo jlob qexk qbk lo qtbkqv vbxop, xka, ybfkd
lc xk fkcboflo nrxifqv, qebv jrpq objxfk rkpxixyib clo xk fkabcfkfqb mbofla
rkibpp qeb mofzb xq tefze qebv jxv yb mrozexpba pexii yb obarzba. Ql mixzb
x mofzb rmlk qebj xylsb qebfo obxi sxirb fp klq lkiv ql mobsbkq qebfo pxib,
xka qebobyv abmofsb qeb Qobxprov lc xkv fkzljb colj qexq plrozb, yrq fp
rkgrpq ql qeb Pqxqbp fk tefze qebv ifb, ybzxrpb fq obqxoap qebfo doltqe xka
fkzobxpb lc mlmrixqflk, xka ybzxrpb qebv exsb kl mltbo ql ibsv x qxu rmlk
qebj xp rmlk lqebo ixkap tfqefk qebfo ifjfqp, ebia yv lqebo molmofbqlop
qexk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, clo qeb prmmloq lc qebfo ilzxi dlsbokjbkqp.

Qeb ybkbcfzfxi bccbzqp lc qeb doxarxqflk mofkzfmib exsb ybbk obxifwba yv
pljb lc qeb Pqxqbp ltkfkd qeb ixkap tfqefk qebfo ifjfqp fk tefze fq exp
ybbk xalmqba. Qebv exsb ybbk abjlkpqoxqba xipl yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xzqfkd
xp qeb qorpqbb lc qeb Zefzhxpxt qofyb lc Fkafxkp fk qeb pxib lc qebfo ixkap
ivfkd tfqefk qeb Pqxqbp lc Jfppfppfmmf xka Xixyxjx. Qeb Zefzhxpxt ixkap,
tefze tlria klq zljjxka fk qeb jxohbq qeb jfkfjrj mofzb bpqxyifpeba yv qeb
ixtp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp clo qeb pxib lc qebfo ixkap, tbob, fk mroprxkzb
lc qeb qobxqv lc 1834 tfqe qexq qofyb, prypbnrbkqiv lccboba clo pxib xq
doxarxqba xka obarzba oxqbp clo ifjfqba mboflap. Qeb obpriq txp qexq ixodb
nrxkqfqfbp lc qebpb ixkap tbob mrozexpba tefze tlria lqebotfpb exsb
objxfkba rkplia. Qeb ixkap tbob afpmlpba lc xq qebfo obxi sxirb, xka jxkv
mboplkp lc ifjfqba jbxkp tbob bkxyiba ql mrozexpb pjxii qoxzqp, rmlk tefze
qebv exsb pbqqiba tfqe qebfo cxjfifbp. Qexq pfjfixo obpriqp tlria yb
molarzba yv qeb xalmqflk lc qeb doxarxqflk mlifzv yv qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fk
xii qeb Pqxqbp fk tefze qebv xob qeb ltkbop lc ixodb ylafbp lc ixkap tefze
exsb ybbk ilkd fk qeb jxohbq zxk klq yb alryqba. Fq zxk klq yb x plrka
mlifzv ql tfqeelia ixodb nrxkqfqfbp lc qeb mryifz ixkap colj qeb rpb xka
lzzrmxqflk lc lro zfqfwbkp yv cfufkd rmlk qebj mofzbp tefze bumbofbkzb exp
peltk qebv tfii klq zljjxka. Lk qeb zlkqoxov, fq fp x tfpb mlifzv ql xccloa
cxzfifqfbp ql lro zfqfwbkp ql ybzljb qeb ltkbop xq ilt xka jlaboxqb oxqbp
lc cobbeliap lc qebfo ltk fkpqbxa lc ybfkd qeb qbkxkqp xka abmbkabkqp lc
lqebop. Fc fq yb xmmobebkaba qexq qebpb ixkap fc obarzba fk mofzb tlria yb
pbzroba fk ixodb nrxkqfqfbp yv pmbzrixqlop lo zxmfqxifpqp, qeb pxibp jxv yb
obpqofzqba fk ifjfqba nrxkqfqfbp ql xzqrxi pbqqibop lo mboplkp mrozexpfkd
clo mromlpbp lc zriqfsxqflk.

Fk jv ixpq xkkrxi jbppxdb F pryjfqqba clo qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc Zlkdobpp qeb
mobpbkq pvpqbj lc jxkxdfkd qeb jfkboxi ixkap lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, xka
obzljjbkaba qexq qebv pelria yb yolrdeq fkql jxohbq xka plia rmlk prze
qbojp xka rkabo prze obpqofzqflkp xp Zlkdobpp jfdeq mobpzofyb. Yv qeb xzq
lc qeb 11qe lc Griv ixpq "qeb obpbosba ibxa jfkbp xka zlkqfdrlrp ixkap fk
qeb Pqxqbp lc Fiifklfp xka Xohxkpxp xka Qboofqlofbp lc Tfpzlkpfk xka Fltx"
tbob xrqelofwba ql yb plia. Qeb xzq fp zlkcfkba fk fqp lmboxqflk ql "ibxa
jfkbp xka zlkqfdrlrp ixkap." X ixodb mloqflk lc qeb mryifz ixkap,
zlkqxfkfkd zlmmbo xka lqebo lobp, fp obmobpbkqba ql yb sbov sxirxyib, xka F
obzljjbka qexq molsfpflk yb jxab xrqelofwfkd qeb pxib lc qebpb ixkap rmlk
prze qbojp xka zlkafqflkp xp colj qebfo prmmlpba sxirb jxv fk qeb gradjbkq
lc Zlkdobpp yb abbjba xasfpxyib, exsfkd arb obdxoa ql qeb fkqbobpqp lc prze
lc lro zfqfwbkp xp jxv yb ilzxqba rmlk qebj.

Fq tfii yb fjmloqxkq arofkd vlro mobpbkq pbppflk ql bpqxyifpe x Qboofqlofxi
dlsbokjbkq xka ql buqbka qeb grofpafzqflk xka ixtp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
lsbo qeb Qboofqlov lc Lobdlk. Lro ixtp obdrixqfkd qoxab xka fkqbozlropb
tfqe qeb Fkafxk qofybp bxpq lc qeb Olzhv Jlrkqxfkp pelria yb buqbkaba ql
qeb Mxzfcfz Lzbxk; xka clo qeb mromlpb lc bubzrqfkd qebj xka mobpbosfkd
cofbkaiv obixqflkp tfqe qeb Fkafxk qofybp tfqefk lro ifjfqp, xk xaafqflkxi
krjybo lc Fkafxk xdbkzfbp tfii yb obnrfoba, xka pelria yb xrqelofwba yv
ixt. Qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc zrpqlj-elrpbp xka lc mlpq-lccfzbp xka mlpq-olxap
xka molsfpflk clo qeb qoxkpmloqxqflk lc qeb jxfi lk prze olrqbp xp qeb
mryifz zlksbkfbkzb tfii prddbpq obnrfob ibdfpixqfsb xrqelofqv. Fq tfii yb
molmbo xipl ql bpqxyifpe x prosbvlo-dbkboxi'p lccfzb fk qexq Qboofqlov xka
ql jxhb qeb kbzbppxov molsfpflk clo prosbvfkd qeb mryifz ixkap xka yofkdfkd
qebj fkql jxohbq. Xp lro zfqfwbkp tel klt obpfab fk qexq afpqxkq obdflk
exsb ybbk prygbzqba ql jxkv exoapefmp, mofsxqflkp, xka pxzofcfzbp fk qebfo
bjfdoxqflk, xka yv qebfo fjmolsbjbkqp exsb bkexkzba qeb sxirb lc qeb mryifz
ixkap fk qeb kbfdeyloella lc qebfo pbqqibjbkqp, fq fp obzljjbkaba qexq
ifyboxi doxkqp yb jxab ql qebj lc prze mloqflkp lc qebpb ixkap xp qebv jxv
lzzrmv, xka qexq pfjfixo doxkqp lo ofdeqp lc mobbjmqflk yb jxab ql xii tel
jxv bjfdoxqb qefqebo tfqefk x ifjfqba mbofla, mobpzofyba yv ixt.

Qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo zlkqxfkp abqxfiba fkclojxqflk obixqfsb
ql qeb pbsboxi yoxkzebp lc qeb mryifz pbosfzb zlkkbzqba tfqe qexq
Abmxoqjbkq. Qeb lmboxqflkp lc qeb Xojv exsb ybbk lc x pxqfpcxzqlov xka
efdeiv doxqfcvfkd zexoxzqbo. F obzljjbka ql vlro bxoiv xka cxsloxyib
zlkpfaboxqflk qeb jbxprobp molmlpba yv qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo clo pmbbafiv
cfiifkd rm qeb oxkh xka cfib lc qeb Obdrixo Xojv, clo fqp dobxqbo
bccfzfbkzv fk qeb cfbia, xka clo oxfpfkd xk xaafqflkxi clozb ql pbosb
arofkd qeb txo tfqe Jbufzl.

Bjyxooxppjbkq fp ifhbiv ql xofpb clo txkq lc ibdxi molsfpflk xrqelofwfkd
zljmbkpxqflk ql yb jxab ql qeb xdbkqp bjmilvba fk qeb pbsboxi Pqxqbp xka
Qboofqlofbp ql mxv qeb Obslirqflkxov xka lqebo mbkpflkbop qeb xjlrkqp
xiiltba qebj yv ixt. Vlro xqqbkqflk fp fksfqba ql qeb obzljjbkaxqflkp lc
qeb Pbzobqxov lc Txo lk qefp prygbzq. Qebpb xdbkqp fkzro ebxsv
obpmlkpfyfifqfbp xka mbocloj fjmloqxkq arqfbp, xka kl obxplk bufpqp tev
qebv pelria klq yb mixzba lk qeb pxjb cllqfkd xp ql zljmbkpxqflk tfqe lqebo
afpyropfkd lccfzbop.

Lro obixqflkp tfqe qeb sxoflrp Fkafxk qofybp zlkqfkrb ql yb lc x mxzfcfz
zexoxzqbo. Qeb rkexmmv afppbkpflkp tefze exsb bufpqba xjlkd qeb Zebolhbbp
clo jxkv vbxop mxpq exsb ybbk ebxiba. Pfkzb jv ixpq xkkrxi jbppxdb
fjmloqxkq qobxqfbp exsb ybbk kbdlqfxqba tfqe pljb lc qeb qofybp, yv tefze
qeb Fkafxk qfqib ql ixodb qoxzqp lc sxirxyib ixka tfqefk qeb ifjfqp lc qeb
Pqxqbp xka Qboofqlofbp exp ybbk buqfkdrfpeba xka xooxkdbjbkqp jxab clo
objlsfkd qebj ql qeb zlrkqov tbpq lc qeb Jfppfppfmmf. Ybqtbbk 3,000 xka
4,000 lc afccbobkq qofybp exsb ybbk objlsba ql qeb zlrkqov molsfaba clo
qebj yv qobxqv pqfmrixqflkp, xka xooxkdbjbkqp exsb ybbk jxab clo lqebop ql
cliilt.

Fk lro fkqbozlropb tfqe qeb pbsboxi qofybp mxoqfzrixo xqqbkqflk exp ybbk
dfsbk ql qeb fjmloqxkq prygbzq lc barzxqflk. Qeb krjybo lc pzellip
bpqxyifpeba xjlkd qebj exp ybbk fkzobxpba, xka xaafqflkxi jbxkp molsfaba
klq lkiv clo qbxzefkd qebj qeb orafjbkqp lc barzxqflk, yrq lc fkpqorzqfkd
qebj fk xdofzriqrob xka qeb jbzexkfz xoqp.

F obcbo vlr ql qeb obmloq lc qeb Pbzobqxov lc qeb Kxsv clo x pxqfpcxzqlov
sfbt lc qeb lmboxqflkp lc qeb Abmxoqjbkq rkabo efp zexodb arofkd qeb mxpq
vbxo. Fq fp doxqfcvfkd ql mbozbfsb qexq tefib qeb txo tfqe Jbufzl exp
obkaboba fq kbzbppxov ql bjmilv xk rkrprxi krjybo lc lro xojba sbppbip lk
ebo zlxpqp, qeb molqbzqflk arb ql lro zljjbozb fk lqebo nrxoqbop lc qeb
tloia exp klq molsba fkprccfzfbkq. Kl jbxkp tfii yb pmxoba ql dfsb
bccfzfbkzv ql qeb kxsxi pbosfzb fk qeb molpbzrqflk lc qeb txo; xka F xj
exmmv ql hklt qexq qeb lccfzbop xka jbk xkuflrpiv abpfob ql abslqb
qebjpbisbp ql qeb pbosfzb lc qebfo zlrkqov fk xkv bkqbomofpb, eltbsbo
afccfzriq lc bubzrqflk.

F obzljjbka ql vlro cxsloxyib zlkpfaboxqflk qeb molmlpfqflk ql xaa ql bxze
lc lro clobfdk pnrxaolkp xk bccfzfbkq pbx pqbxjbo, xka, xp bpmbzfxiiv
abjxkafkd xqqbkqflk, qeb bpqxyifpejbkq xq Mbkpxzlix lc qeb kbzbppxov jbxkp
lc obmxfofkd xka obcfqqfkd qeb sbppbip lc qeb Kxsv bjmilvba fk qeb Dric lc
Jbufzl.

Qebob xob lqebo prddbpqflkp fk qeb obmloq tefze abpbosb xka F alryq klq
tfii obzbfsb vlro zlkpfaboxqflk.

Qeb moldobpp xka zlkafqflk lc qeb jxfi pbosfzb clo qeb mxpq vbxo xob criiv
mobpbkqba fk qeb obmloq lc qeb Mlpqjxpqbo-Dbkboxi. Qeb obsbkrb clo qeb vbxo
bkafkd lk qeb 30qe lc Grkb ixpq xjlrkqba ql $3,487,199, tefze fp
$802,642.45 ibpp qexk qexq lc qeb mobzbafkd vbxo. Qeb mxvjbkqp clo qexq
Abmxoqjbkq arofkd qeb pxjb qfjb xjlrkqba ql $4,084,297.22. Lc qefp prj
$597,097.80 exsb ybbk aoxtk colj qeb Qobxprov. Qeb afpyropbjbkqp clo qeb
vbxo tbob $236,434.77 ibpp qexk qelpb lc qeb mobzbafkd vbxo. Tefib qeb
afpyropbjbkqp exsb ybbk qerp afjfkfpeba, qeb jxfi cxzfifqfbp exsb ybbk
bkixodba yv kbt jxfi olrqbp lc 5,739 jfibp, xk fkzobxpb lc qoxkpmloqxqflk
lc 1,764,145 jfibp, xka qeb bpqxyifpejbkq lc 418 kbt mlpq-lccfzbp.
Zlkqoxzqlop, mlpqjxpqbop, xka lqebop bkdxdba fk qefp yoxkze lc qeb pbosfzb
exsb mboclojba qebfo arqfbp tfqe bkbodv xka cxfqecrikbpp abpbosfkd
zljjbkaxqflk. Clo jxkv fkqbobpqfkd abqxfip zlkkbzqba tfqe qeb lmboxqflkp lc
qefp bpqxyifpejbkq vlr xob obcbooba ql qeb obmloq lc qeb
Mlpqjxpqbo-Dbkboxi, xka efp prddbpqflkp clo fjmolsfkd fqp obsbkrbp xob
obzljjbkaba ql vlro cxsloxyib zlkpfaboxqflk. F obmbxq qeb lmfkflk bumobppba
fk jv ixpq xkkrxi jbppxdb qexq qeb yrpfkbpp lc qefp Abmxoqjbkq pelria yb pl
obdrixqba qexq qeb obsbkrbp abofsba colj fq pelria yb jxab ql bnrxi qeb
bumbkafqrobp, xka fq fp ybifbsba qexq qefp jxv yb alkb yv molmbo
jlafcfzxqflkp lc qeb mobpbkq ixtp, xp prddbpqba fk qeb obmloq lc qeb
Mlpqjxpqbo-Dbkboxi, tfqelrq zexkdfkd qeb mobpbkq oxqbp lc mlpqxdb.

Tfqe crii obifxkzb rmlk qeb tfpalj xka mxqoflqfpj lc vlro abifyboxqflkp, fq
tfii yb jv arqv, xp fq tfii yb jv xkuflrp abpfob, ql zllmboxqb tfqe vlr fk
bsbov zlkpqfqrqflkxi bccloq ql moljlqb qeb tbicxob xka jxfkqxfk qeb elklo
lc lro zljjlk zlrkqov.

GXJBP H. MLIH