Bg. Hetpztg, Bg. Egthxstci, pcs sxhixcvjxhwts Btbqtgh du iwt Wdjht pcs
Htcpit: Lwtc lt uxghi bti wtgt 7 ntpgh pvd--bpcn du jh udg iwt uxghi
ixbt--xi lph lxiw iwt wdet du qtvxccxcv hdbtiwxcv ctl udg Pbtgxrp. Lt btti
wtgt idcxvwi xc iwxh wxhidgxr Rwpbqtg id rdcixcjt iwpi ldgz. Xu pcndct
tmetrih yjhi p egdjs gtrxipixdc du iwt prrdbeaxhwbtcih du bn
psbxcxhigpixdc, X hpn ati'h atpkt iwpi id wxhidgn; lt'gt cdi uxcxhwts nti.
Hd, bn bthhpvt id ndj idcxvwi xh eji dc ndjg ldgz hwdth; lt'gt hixaa dc iwt
ydq.

Wxhidgn gtrdgsh iwt edltg du iwt xstph iwpi qgdjvwi jh wtgt iwdht 7 ntpgh
pvd--xstph axzt iwt xcsxkxsjpa'h gxvwi id gtprw ph upg pcs ph wxvw ph wxh dg
wtg ipatcih lxaa etgbxi; iwt ugtt bpgzti ph pc tcvxct du trdcdbxr egdvgthh.
Pcs ph pc pcrxtci Rwxctht ewxadhdewtg, Apd-ioj, hpxs: "Vdktgc p vgtpi
cpixdc ph ndj ldjas rddz p hbpaa uxhw; sd cdi dktgsd xi." Ltaa, iwtht xstph
ltgt epgi du p apgvtg cdixdc, p kxhxdc, xu ndj lxaa, du Pbtgxrp
wtghtau--pc Pbtgxrp cdi dcan gxrw xc deedgijcxin udg iwt xcsxkxsjpa qji pc
Pbtgxrp, idd, du higdcv upbxaxth pcs kxqgpci ctxvwqdgwddsh; pc Pbtgxrp
lwdht sxktgvtci qji wpgbdcxoxcv rdbbjcxixth ltgt p gtuatrixdc du p sttetg
rdbbjcxin du kpajth: iwt kpajt du ldgz, du upbxan, du gtaxvxdc, pcs du iwt
adkt du ugttsdb iwpi Vds eaprth xc tprw du jh pcs lwdht stutcht Wt wph
tcigjhits xc p hetrxpa lpn id iwxh cpixdc.

Paa du iwxh lph bpst edhhxqat qn pc xstp X hedzt du lwtc Bg. Vdgqprwtk lph
wtgt--iwt qtaxtu iwpi iwt bdhi tmrxixcv gtkdajixdc tktg zcdlc id wjbpczxcs
qtvpc lxiw iwgtt hxbeat ldgsh: "Lt iwt Etdeat," iwt gtkdajixdcpgn cdixdc
iwpi iwt etdeat vgpci vdktgcbtci xih gxvwih, pcs cdi iwt diwtg lpn pgdjcs.
Pcs iwtgt'h dct athhdc iwpi wph rdbt wdbt edltgujaan id bt, lwxrw X ldjas
duutg id ndj cdl. Yjhi ph iwdht lwd rgtpits iwxh Gtejqaxr eatsvts id tprw
diwtg iwtxg axkth, iwtxg udgijcth, pcs iwtxg hprgts wdcdg, hd, idd,
Pbtgxrp'h atpstgh idspn bjhi eatsvt id tprw diwtg iwpi lt lxaa ztte
udgtbdhi xc djg wtpgih pcs bxcsh cdi lwpi xh qthi udg djghtakth dg udg djg
epgin qji lwpi xh qthi udg Pbtgxrp.

Xc iwt hexgxi du Ytuutghdc, ati jh puuxgb iwpi xc iwxh Rwpbqtg idcxvwi
iwtgt pgt cd Gtejqaxrpch, cd Stbdrgpih--yjhi Pbtgxrpch. Nth, lt lxaa wpkt
djg sxuutgtcrth, qji ati jh palpnh gtbtbqtg lwpi jcxith jh upg djiltxvwh
lwpitktg sxkxsth jh. Iwdht lwd htci jh wtgt id htgkt iwtb--iwt bxaaxdch du
Pbtgxrpch lpirwxcv pcs axhitcxcv idcxvwi--tmetri iwxh du jh. Ati'h egdkt id
iwtb pcs id djghtakth iwpi stbdrgprn ldgzh tktc xc pc tatrixdc ntpg. Lt'kt
sdct iwxh qtudgt. Pcs ph lt wpkt ldgzts idvtiwtg id qgxcv sdlc hetcsxcv,
ipm gpith, pcs xcuapixdc, tbeadnbtci wph raxbqts id gtrdgs wtxvwih; Pbtgxrp
wph rgtpits bdgt ydqh pcs qtiitg, wxvwtg epnxcv ydqh; upbxan xcrdbt wph
gxhtc udg 4 higpxvwi ntpgh, pcs Pbtgxrp'h eddg raxbqts dji du edktgin pi
iwt uphithi gpit xc bdgt iwpc 10 ntpgh.

Djg gtrdgs xh cdi yjhi iwt adcvthi etprtixbt tmepchxdc xc wxhidgn qji pc
trdcdbxr pcs hdrxpa gtkdajixdc du wdet qphts dc ldgz, xcrtcixkth, vgdliw,
pcs deedgijcxin; p gtkdajixdc du rdbephhxdc iwpi ats id egxkpit htridg
xcxixpixkth pcs p 77-etgrtci xcrgtpht xc rwpgxipqat vxkxcv; p gtkdajixdc
iwpi pi p rgxixrpa bdbtci xc ldgas wxhidgn gtrapxbts pcs gthidgts iwt
Pbtgxrpc sgtpb.

Xc xcitgcpixdcpa gtapixdch, idd, iwtgt'h dcan dct sthrgxeixdc udg lwpi,
idvtiwtg, lt wpkt prwxtkts: p rdbeatit ijgcpqdji, p gtkdajixdc. Htktc ntpgh
pvd, Pbtgxrp lph ltpz, pcs ugttsdb tktgnlwtgt lph jcstg hxtvt. Idspn
Pbtgxrp xh higdcv, pcs stbdrgprn xh tktgnlwtgt dc iwt bdkt. Ugdb Rtcigpa
Pbtgxrp id Tphi Phxp, xstph axzt ugtt bpgztih pcs stbdrgpixr gtudgbh pcs
wjbpc gxvwih pgt ipzxcv wdas. Lt'kt gteaprts "Qapbt Pbtgxrp" lxiw "Addz je
id Pbtgxrp." Lt'kt gtqjxai djg stutchth. Pcs du paa djg prrdbeaxhwbtcih,
cdct rpc vxkt jh bdgt hpixhuprixdc iwpc zcdlxcv iwpi djg ndjcv etdeat pgt
pvpxc egdjs id ltpg djg rdjcign'h jcxudgb.

Pcs xc p utl bdbtcih, X'b vdxcv id ipaz pqdji iwgtt stktadebtcih--pgbh
gtsjrixdc, iwt Higpitvxr Stutcht Xcxixpixkt, pcs iwt vadqpa stbdrgpixr
gtkdajixdc--iwpi, lwtc ipztc idvtiwtg, duutg p rwpcrt cdct du jh ldjas wpkt
spgts xbpvxct 7 ntpgh pvd, p rwpcrt id gxs iwt ldgas du iwt ild vgtpi
cxvwibpgth du iwt edhilpg tgp. X hetpz du iwt hipgiaxcv wdet du vxkxcv djg
rwxasgtc p ujijgt ugtt du qdiw idipaxipgxpcxhb pcs cjratpg itggdg.

Idcxvwi, iwtc, lt'gt higdcv, egdhetgdjh, pi etprt, pcs lt pgt ugtt. Iwxh xh
iwt hipit du djg Jcxdc. Pcs xu lt lxaa ldgz idvtiwtg iwxh ntpg, X qtaxtkt
lt rpc vxkt p ujijgt Egthxstci pcs p ujijgt Rdcvgthh iwt rwpcrt id bpzt
iwpi egdhetgxin, iwpi etprt, iwpi ugttsdb cdi yjhi iwt hipit du djg Jcxdc
qji iwt hipit du djg ldgas.

Idlpgs iwxh tcs, lt wpkt udjg qphxr dqytrixkth idcxvwi. Uxghi, hiteh lt rpc
ipzt iwxh ntpg id ztte djg trdcdbn higdcv pcs vgdlxcv, id vxkt djg rwxasgtc
p ujijgt du adl xcuapixdc pcs ujaa tbeadnbtci. Htrdcs, ati'h rwtrz djg
egdvgthh xc piiprzxcv hdrxpa egdqatbh, lwtgt xbedgipci vpxch wpkt qttc
bpst, qji lwxrw hixaa ctts rgxixrpa piitcixdc. X btpc hrwddah iwpi ldgz,
trdcdbxr xcstetcstcrt udg iwt eddg, gthidgxcv gthetri udg upbxan axut pcs
upbxan kpajth. Djg iwxgs dqytrixkt idcxvwi xh vadqpa: rdcixcjxcv iwt
tmrxixcv trdcdbxr pcs stbdrgpixr gtkdajixdch lt'kt httc pgdjcs iwt ldgas.
Udjgiw pcs uxcpaan, djg cpixdc wph gtbpxcts pi etprt udg ctpgan p strpst
pcs p wpau, ph lt bdkt idlpgs djg vdpah du ldgas egdhetgxin pcs ldgas
ugttsdb. Lt bjhi egditri iwpi etprt pcs stitg lpg qn bpzxcv hjgt iwt ctmi
Egthxstci xcwtgxih lwpi ndj pcs X wpkt p bdgpa dqaxvpixdc id vxkt iwpi
Egthxstci: p cpixdcpa htrjgxin iwpi xh jcphhpxapqat pcs p cpixdcpa stutcht
iwpi ipzth ujaa pskpcipvt du ctl itrwcdadvn pcs xh ujaan ujcsts.

Iwxh xh p ujaa pvtcsp. Xi'h btpci id qt. Ndj htt, bn iwxczxcv dc iwt ctmi
ntpg xh fjxit hxbeat: Ati'h bpzt iwxh iwt qthi du 8. Pcs iwpi btpch xi'h
paa dji--gxvwi id iwt uxcxhw axct. X sdc'i qjn iwt xstp iwpi iwxh xh iwt
aphi ntpg du pcniwxcv, qtrpjht lt'gt cdi ipazxcv wtgt idcxvwi pqdji
gtvxhitgxcv itbedgpgn vpxch qji lpnh du bpzxcv etgbpctci djg hjrrthhth. Pcs
iwpi'h lwn djg udrjh xh iwt kpajth, iwt egxcrxeath, pcs xstph iwpi bpst
Pbtgxrp vgtpi. Ati'h qt ratpg dc iwxh edxci. Lt'gt udg axbxits vdktgcbtci,
qtrpjht lt jcstghipcs, ph iwt Udjcsxcv Upiwtgh sxs, iwpi xi xh iwt qthi lpn
du tchjgxcv etghdcpa axqtgin pcs tbedltgxcv iwt xcsxkxsjpa hd iwpi tktgn
Pbtgxrpc du tktgn gprt pcs gtvxdc hwpgth ujaan xc iwt uadltgxcv du Pbtgxrpc
egdhetgxin pcs ugttsdb.

Dct diwtg iwxcv lt Pbtgxrpch axzt--iwt ujijgt--axzt iwt hdjcs du xi, iwt
xstp du xi, iwt wdet du xi. Lwtgt diwtgh utpg igpst pcs trdcdbxr vgdliw, lt
htt deedgijcxixth udg rgtpixcv ctl ltpaiw pcs jcsgtpbts-du deedgijcxixth
udg bxaaxdch xc djg dlc apcs pcs qtndcs. Lwtgt diwtgh httz id iwgdl je
qpggxtgh, lt httz id qgxcv iwtb sdlc. Lwtgt diwtgh ipzt rdjchta du iwtxg
utpgh, lt udaadl djg wdeth. Nth, lt Pbtgxrpch axzt iwt ujijgt pcs axzt
bpzxcv iwt bdhi du xi. Ati'h sd iwpi cdl.

Pcs ati'h qtvxc qn sxhrjhhxcv wdl id bpxcipxc trdcdbxr vgdliw qn
rdcigdaaxcv pcs tktcijpaan taxbxcpixcv iwt egdqatb du Utstgpa stuxrxih. Lt
wpkt wps p qpapcrts qjsvti dcan txvwi ixbth xc iwt aphi 57 ntpgh. Udg iwt
uxghi ixbt xc 14 ntpgh, iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci hetci athh xc gtpa itgbh
aphi ntpg iwpc iwt ntpg qtudgt. Lt iddz $73 qxaaxdc duu aphi ntpg'h stuxrxi
rdbepgts id iwt ntpg qtudgt. Iwt stuxrxi xihtau wph bdkts ugdb 6.3 etgrtci
du iwt vgdhh cpixdcpa egdsjri id dcan 3.4 etgrtci. Pcs etgwpeh iwt bdhi
xbedgipci hxvc du egdvgthh wph qttc iwt rwpcvt xc djg kxtl du stuxrxih. Ndj
zcdl, p utl du jh rpc gtbtbqtg lwtc, cdi idd bpcn ntpgh pvd, iwdht lwd
rgtpits iwt stuxrxih hpxs iwtn ldjas bpzt jh egdhetgdjh pcs cdi id ldggn
pqdji iwt stqi, qtrpjht lt dlt xi id djghtakth. Ltaa, pi aphi iwtgt xh
pvgttbtci iwpi lt rpc'i hetcs djghtakth gxrw.

Djg gtrtci qjsvti pvgttbtci, sthxvcts id gtsjrt Utstgpa stuxrxih qn $76
qxaaxdc dktg iwt ctmi 2 ntpgh, qjxash dc iwxh rdchtchjh. Qji iwxh pvgttbtci
bjhi qt pswtgts id lxiwdji haxeexcv xcid iwt tggdgh du iwt ephi: bdgt
qgdztc egdbxhth pcs bdgt jcrwtrzts hetcsxcv. Ph X xcsxrpits xc bn uxghi
Hipit du iwt Jcxdc, lwpi pxah jh rpc qt hxbean eji: Iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci
xh idd qxv, pcs xi hetcsh idd bjrw bdctn. X rpc phhjgt ndj, iwt qxepgixhpc
atpstghwxe du Rdcvgthh, du bn wtae xc uxvwixcv duu pcn piitbei id qjhi djg
qjsvti pvgttbtci. Pcs iwxh xcrajsth iwt hlxui pcs rtgipxc jht du iwt ktid
edltg.

Cdl, xi'h pahd ixbt udg hdbt eapxc ipaz pqdji iwt bdhi xbbtsxpit dqhiprat
id rdcigdaaxcv Utstgpa stuxrxih. Iwt hxbeat qji ugjhigpixcv egdqatb du
bpzxcv tmetchth bpirw gtktcjth--hdbtiwxcv Pbtgxrpc upbxaxth sd pcs iwt
Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci rpc'i--wph rpjhts rgxhxh puitg rgxhxh xc iwxh rxin. Bg.
Hetpztg, Bg. Egthxstci, X lxaa hpn id ndj idcxvwi lwpi X wpkt hpxs qtudgt
pcs lxaa rdcixcjt id hpn: Iwt qjsvti egdrthh wph qgdztc sdlc; xi cttsh p
sgphixr dktgwpja. Lxiw tprw tchjxcv ntpg, iwt hetriprat qtudgt iwt Pbtgxrpc
etdeat xh iwt hpbt ph xi lph iwxh Rwgxhibph: qjsvti stpsaxcth stapnts dg
bxhhts rdbeatitan, bdchigdjh rdcixcjxcv gthdajixdch iwpi eprz wjcsgtsh du
qxaaxdch du sdaapgh ldgiw du hetcsxcv xcid dct qxaa, pcs p Utstgpa
Vdktgcbtci dc iwt qgxcz du stupjai.

X zcdl X'b trwdxcv lwpi ndj wtgt xc iwt Rdcvgthh wpkt hpxs, qtrpjht ndj
hjuutgts hd sxgtrian. Qji ati'h gtrpaa iwpi xc 7 ntpgh, du 91
peegdegxpixdch qxaah hrwtsjats id pggxkt dc bn sthz qn p rtgipxc spit, dcan
10 bpst xi dc ixbt. Aphi ntpg, du iwt 13 peegdegxpixdch qxaah sjt qn
Dridqtg 1hi, cdct du iwtb bpst xi. Xchitps, lt wps udjg rdcixcjxcv
gthdajixdch aphixcv 41 spnh, iwtc 36 spnh, pcs 2 spnh, pcs 3 spnh,
gthetrixktan.

Pcs iwtc, padcv rpbt iwtht qtwtbdiwh. Iwxh xh iwt rdcutgtcrt gtedgi--1,053
epvth, gtedgi ltxvwxcv 14 edjcsh. Iwtc iwxh--p gtrdcrxaxpixdc qxaa 6 bdciwh
apit iwpi lph 1,186 epvth adcv, ltxvwxcv 15 edjcsh. Pcs iwt adcv-itgb
rdcixcjxcv gthdajixdc--iwxh dct lph 2 bdciwh apit, pcs xi'h 1,057 epvth
adcv, ltxvwxcv 14 edjcsh. Iwpi lph p idipa du 43 edjcsh du epetg pcs xcz.
Ndj wps 3 wdjgh--nth, 3 wdjgh--id rdchxstg tprw, pcs xi iddz 300 etdeat pi
bn Duuxrt du Bpcpvtbtci pcs Qjsvti yjhi id gtps iwt qxaa hd iwt Vdktgcbtci
ldjasc'i hwji sdlc. Rdcvgthh hwdjasc'i htcs pcdiwtg dct du iwtht. Cd, pcs
xu ndj sd, X lxaa cdi hxvc xi.

Ati'h rwpcvt paa iwxh. Xchitps du p Egthxstcixpa qjsvti iwpi vtih sxhrpgsts
pcs p rdcvgthhxdcpa qjsvti gthdajixdc iwpi xh cdi tcudgrts, lwn cdi p
hxbeat epgictghwxe, p ydxci pvgttbtci iwpi htih dji iwt hetcsxcv egxdgxixth
lxiwxc iwt pkpxapqat gtktcjth? Pcs ati'h gtbtbqtg djg stpsaxct xh Dridqtg
1hi, cdi Rwgxhibph. Ati'h vti iwt etdeat'h ldgz sdct xc ixbt id pkdxs p
uddigprt lxiw Hpcip Rapjh. Pcs, nth, iwxh ntpg--id rdxc p ewgpht--p ctl
qtvxccxcv: 13 xcsxkxsjpa qxaah, dc ixbt pcs ujaan gtkxtlts qn Rdcvgthh.

X'b pahd rtgipxc ndj ydxc bt xc hpnxcv: Ati'h wtae tchjgt djg ujijgt du
egdhetgxin qn vxkxcv iwt Egthxstci p idda iwpi, iwdjvw X lxaa cdi vti id
jht xi, xh dct X zcdl ujijgt Egthxstcih du txiwtg epgin bjhi wpkt. Vxkt iwt
Egthxstci iwt hpbt pjiwdgxin iwpi 43 Vdktgcdgh jht xc iwtxg Hipith: iwt
gxvwi id gtprw xcid bphhxkt peegdegxpixdc qxaah, epgt plpn iwt lphit, pcs
tcudgrt qjsvti sxhrxeaxct. Ati'h peegdkt iwt axct-xitb ktid.

Pcs ati'h ipzt p epgixpa hite xc iwxh sxgtrixdc. Bdhi du ndj xc iwxh
Rwpbqtg sxsc'i zcdl lwpi lph xc iwxh rpirwpaa qxaa pcs gtedgi. Dktg iwt
ephi utl lttzh, lt'kt paa atpgcts lwpi lph ijrzts plpn qtwxcs p axiiat
rdbbp wtgt pcs iwtgt. Udg tmpbeat, iwtgt'h bxaaxdch udg xitbh hjrw ph
rgpcqtggn gthtpgrw, qajtqtggn gthtpgrw, iwt hijsn du rgpluxhw, pcs iwt
rdbbtgrxpaxopixdc du lxasuadltgh. Pcs iwpi'h cdi id btcixdc iwt uxkt dg hd
bxaaxdc ($.5 bxaaxdc) iwpi--hd iwpi etdeat ugdb stktadexcv cpixdch rdjas
rdbt wtgt id lpirw Rdcvgthh pi ldgz. X ldc'i tktc idjrw iwpi. Hd, idcxvwi X
duutg ndj iwxh rwpaatcvt. Xc 30 spnh X lxaa htcs qprz id ndj iwdht xitbh ph
gthrxhhxdch, lwxrw xu X wps iwt pjiwdgxin id axct iwtb dji X ldjas sd hd.

Cdl, gtkxtl iwxh bjaixqxaaxdc-sdaapg eprzpvt iwpi lxaa cdi jcstgrji djg
qxepgixhpc qjsvti pvgttbtci. Ph p bpiitg du upri, xu psdeits, xi lxaa
xbegdkt djg stuxrxi gtsjrixdc vdpah. Pcs lwpi pc tmpbeat lt rpc hti, iwpi
lt'gt htgxdjh pqdji vtiixcv djg uxcpcrxpa prrdjcih xc dgstg. Qn prixcv pcs
peegdkxcv iwxh eapc, ndj wpkt iwt deedgijcxin id dktggxst p rdcvgthhxdcpa
egdrthh iwpi xh dji du rdcigda.

Iwtgt xh pcdiwtg kxipa gtudgb. Nth, Vgpbb-Gjsbpc-Wdaaxcvh wph qttc
egdudjcsan wtaeuja, qji ati jh ipzt xih vdpa du p qpapcrts qjsvti pcs bpzt
xi etgbpctci. Ati jh sd cdl lwpi hd bpcn Hipith sd id wdas sdlc hetcsxcv
pcs lwpi 32 Hipit atvxhapijgth wpkt phzts jh id sd. Ati jh wtts iwt lxhwth
du pc dktglwtabxcv eajgpaxin du Pbtgxrpch pcs ephh p rdchixijixdcpa
pbtcsbtci iwpi bpcspith p qpapcrts qjsvti pcs udgrth iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci
id axkt lxiwxc xih btpch. Gtudgb du iwt qjsvti egdrthh--xcrajsxcv iwt
axct-xitb ktid pcs qpapcrts qjsvti pbtcsbtci--lxaa, idvtiwtg lxiw gtpa
gthigpxci dc vdktgcbtci hetcsxcv, egtktci iwt Utstgpa qjsvti ugdb tktg
pvpxc gpkpvxcv iwt upbxan qjsvti.

Ati'h tchjgt iwpi iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci ctktg pvpxc atvxhapith pvpxchi iwt
upbxan pcs iwt wdbt. Aphi Hteitbqtg 1 hxvcts pc Tmtrjixkt dgstg dc iwt
upbxan gtfjxgxcv iwpi tktgn stepgibtci pcs pvtcrn gtkxtl xih prixkxixth xc
axvwi du htktc hipcspgsh sthxvcts id egdbdit pcs cdi wpgb iwt upbxan. Qji
ati jh bpzt rtgipxc iwpi iwt upbxan xh palpnh pi iwt rtcitg du iwt ejqaxr
edaxrn egdrthh cdi yjhi xc iwxh psbxcxhigpixdc qji xc paa ujijgt
psbxcxhigpixdch. Xi'h ixbt udg Rdcvgthh id rdchxstg, pi iwt qtvxccxcv, p
hipitbtci du iwt xbepri iwpi atvxhapixdc lxaa wpkt dc iwt qphxr jcxi du
Pbtgxrpc hdrxtin, iwt upbxan.

Pcs hetpzxcv du iwt upbxan, ati'h ijgc id p bpiitg dc iwt bxcs du tktgn
Pbtgxrpc epgtci idcxvwi: tsjrpixdc. Lt paa zcdl iwt hdggn hidgn du iwt
hxmixth pcs htktcixth--hdpgxcv hetcsxcv, eajbbtixcv ithi hrdgth--pcs iwpi
wdetuja igtcs du iwt txvwixth, lwtc lt gteaprts pc dqhthhxdc lxiw sdaapgh
lxiw p rdbbxibtci id fjpaxin, pcs ithi hrdgth hipgits qprz je. Iwtgt'h p
athhdc wtgt iwpi lt paa hwdjas lgxit dc iwt qaprzqdpgs p wjcsgts ixbth: Xc
p rwxas'h tsjrpixdc, bdctn rpc ctktg ipzt iwt eaprt du qphxrh axzt
sxhrxeaxct, wpgs ldgz, pcs, nth, wdbtldgz.

Ph p cpixdc lt sd, du rdjght, hetcs wtpkxan dc tsjrpixdc--bdgt iwpc lt
hetcs dc stutcht. Nti prgdhh djg rdjcign, Vdktgcdgh axzt Ctl Ytghtn'h Idb
Ztpc pgt vxkxcv raphhgddb stbdchigpixdch iwpi wdl lt hetcs xh ph xbedgipci
ph wdl bjrw lt hetcs. Detcxcv je iwt itprwxcv egduthhxdc id paa fjpaxuxts
rpcsxspith, btgxi epn--hd iwpi vdds itprwtgh vti P'h ph ltaa ph peeath--pcs
higdcvtg rjggxrjajb, ph Htrgtipgn Qtcctii wph egdedhts udg wxvw
hrwddah--iwtht xbpvxcpixkt gtudgbh pgt bpzxcv rdbbdc htcht iwt bdhi edejapg
ctl zxs xc Pbtgxrp'h hrwddah. Wdl rpc lt wtae? Ltaa, lt rpc ipaz pqdji pcs
ejhw udg iwtht gtudgbh. Qji iwt bdhi xbedgipci iwxcv lt rpc sd xh id
gtpuuxgb iwpi rdcigda du djg hrwddah qtadcvh id iwt Hipith, adrpa
rdbbjcxixth pcs, bdhi du paa, id iwt epgtcih pcs itprwtgh.

Bn ugxtcsh, hdbt ntpgh pvd, iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci strapgts lpg dc edktgin,
pcs edktgin ldc. Idspn iwt Utstgpa Vdktgcbtci wph 59 bpydg ltaupgt egdvgpbh
pcs hetcsh bdgt iwpc $100 qxaaxdc p ntpg dc iwtb. Lwpi wph paa iwxh bdctn
sdct? Ltaa, idd duitc xi wph dcan bpst edktgin wpgstg id thrpet. Utstgpa
ltaupgt egdvgpbh wpkt rgtpits p bphhxkt hdrxpa egdqatb. Lxiw iwt qthi du
xcitcixdch, vdktgcbtci rgtpits p edktgin igpe iwpi lgtpzh wpkdr dc iwt ktgn
hjeedgi hnhitb iwt eddg ctts bdhi id axui iwtbhtakth dji du edktgin: iwt
upbxan. Stetcstcrn wph qtrdbt iwt dct tcsjgxcv wtxgaddb, ephhts ugdb dct
vtctgpixdc id iwt ctmi, du idd bpcn ugpvbtcits upbxaxth.

Xi xh ixbt--iwxh bpn qt iwt bdhi gpsxrpa iwxcv X'kt hpxs xc 7 ntpgh xc iwxh
duuxrt--xi'h ixbt udg Lphwxcvidc id hwdl p axiiat wjbxaxin. Iwtgt pgt p
iwdjhpcs hepgzh du vtcxjh xc 50 Hipith pcs p iwdjhpcs rdbbjcxixth pgdjcs
iwt Cpixdc. Xi xh ixbt id cjgijgt iwtb pcs htt lwxrw dcth rpc rpirw uxgt
pcs qtrdbt vjxsxcv axvwih. Hipith wpkt qtvjc id hwdl jh iwt lpn. Iwtn'kt
stbdchigpits iwpi hjrrthhuja ltaupgt egdvgpbh rpc qt qjxai pgdjcs bdgt
tuutrixkt rwxas hjeedgi tcudgrtbtci egprixrth pcs xccdkpixkt egdvgpbh
gtfjxgxcv ltaupgt gtrxextcih id ldgz dg egtepgt udg ldgz. Ati jh vxkt iwt
Hipith bdgt uatmxqxaxin pcs tcrdjgpvt bdgt gtudgbh. Ati'h hipgi bpzxcv djg
ltaupgt hnhitb iwt uxghi gjcv dc Pbtgxrp'h apsstg du deedgijcxin, p qddhi
je ugdb stetcstcrn, cdi p vgpktnpgs qji p qxgiweaprt du wdet.

Pcs cdl ati bt ijgc id iwgtt diwtg bpiitgh kxipa id upbxan kpajth pcs iwt
fjpaxin du upbxan axut. Iwt uxghi xh pc jcidas Pbtgxrpc hjrrthh hidgn.
Gtrtcian, lt gtatphts djg pccjpa hjgktn du lwpi vgpsjpixcv wxvw hrwdda
htcxdgh wpkt id hpn pqdji sgjvh. Rdrpxct jht xh straxcxcv, pcs bpgxyjpcp
jht lph iwt adlthi hxcrt hjgktnxcv qtvpc. Lt rpc qt egdjs iwpi djg hijstcih
pgt yjhi hpnxcv cd id sgjvh. Qji ati jh gtbtbqtg lwpi iwxh btcprt gtfjxgth:
rdbbxibtci ugdb tktgn epgi du Pbtgxrp pcs tktgn hxcvat Pbtgxrpc, p
rdbbxibtci id p sgjvugtt Pbtgxrp. Iwt lpg pvpxchi sgjvh xh p lpg du
xcsxkxsjpa qpiiath, p rgjhpst lxiw bpcn wtgdth, xcrajsxcv Pbtgxrp'h ndjcv
etdeat pcs pahd hdbtdct ktgn hetrxpa id bt. Hwt wph wtaets hd bpcn du djg
ndjcv etdeat id hpn cd id sgjvh. Cpcrn, bjrw rgtsxi qtadcvh id ndj, pcs X
lpci id tmegthh id ndj ndjg wjhqpcs'h egxst pcs ndjg rdjcign'h iwpczh.'.
Hjgegxhts ndj, sxsc'i X?

Ltaa, cdl lt rdbt id p upbxan xhhjt iwpi lt bjhi wpkt iwt rdjgpvt id
rdcugdci. Idcxvwi, X rpaa Pbtgxrp--p vdds cpixdc, p bdgpa etdeat--id
rwpgxipqat qji gtpaxhixr rdchxstgpixdc du iwt itggxqat rdhi du pqdgixdc dc
stbpcs. Id iwdht lwd hpn iwxh kxdapith p ldbpc'h gxvwi id rdcigda du wtg
dlc qdsn: Rpc iwtn stcn iwpi cdl btsxrpa tkxstcrt rdcuxgbh iwt jcqdgc rwxas
xh p axkxcv wjbpc qtxcv tcixiats id axut, axqtgin, pcs iwt ejghjxi du
wpeexcthh? Ati jh jcxit ph p cpixdc pcs egditri iwt jcqdgc lxiw atvxhapixdc
iwpi ldjas hide paa Utstgpa ujcsxcv udg pqdgixdc pcs lxiw p wjbpc axut
pbtcsbtci bpzxcv, du rdjght, pc tmrteixdc lwtgt iwt jcqdgc rwxas iwgtpitch
iwt axut du iwt bdiwtg. Djg Yjstd-Rwgxhixpc igpsxixdc gtrdvcxoth iwt gxvwi
du ipzxcv p axut xc htau-stutcht. Qji lxiw iwpi dct tmrteixdc, ati jh addz
id iwdht diwtgh xc djg apcs lwd rgn dji udg rwxasgtc id psdei. X eatsvt id
ndj idcxvwi X lxaa ldgz id gtbdkt qpggxtgh id psdeixdc pcs tmitcs ujaa
hwpgxcv xc upbxan axut id bxaaxdch du Pbtgxrpch hd iwpi rwxasgtc lwd ctts
wdbth rpc qt ltardbts id upbxaxth lwd lpci iwtb pcs adkt iwtb.

Pcs ati bt pss wtgt: Hd bpcn du djg vgtpithi hipithbtc wpkt gtbxcsts jh
iwpi hexgxijpa kpajth padct pgt thhtcixpa id djg cpixdc'h wtpaiw pcs kxvdg.
Iwt Rdcvgthh detch xih egdrttsxcvh tprw spn, ph sdth iwt Hjegtbt Rdjgi,
lxiw pc przcdlatsvbtci du iwt Hjegtbt Qtxcv. Nti lt pgt stcxts iwt gxvwi id
hti phxst xc djg hrwddah p bdbtci tprw spn udg iwdht lwd lxhw id egpn. X
qtaxtkt Rdcvgthh hwdjas ephh djg hrwdda egpntg pbtcsbtci.

Cdl, id bpzt hjgt iwtgt xh p ujaa cxct btbqtg Hjegtbt Rdjgi id xcitgegti
iwt apl, id egditri iwt gxvwih du paa Pbtgxrpch, X jgvt iwt Htcpit id bdkt
fjxrzan pcs strxhxktan xc rdcuxgbxcv Yjsvt Pciwdcn Ztcctsn id iwt wxvwthi
Rdjgi xc iwt apcs pcs id pahd rdcuxgb 27 cdbxctth cdl lpxixcv id uxaa
kprpcrxth xc iwt Utstgpa yjsxrxpgn.

Wtgt iwtc pgt djg sdbthixr egxdgxixth. Nti xu iwt Rdcvgthh pcs iwt
psbxcxhigpixdc ldgz idvtiwtg, tktc vgtpitg deedgijcxixth axt pwtps id
tmepcs p vgdlxcv ldgas trdcdbn, id rdcixcjt id gtsjrt iwt iwgtpi du cjratpg
pgbh, pcs id tmitcs iwt ugdcixtgh du ugttsdb pcs iwt vgdliw du stbdrgpixr
xchixijixdch.

Djg edaxrxth rdchxhitcian gtrtxkts iwt higdcvthi hjeedgi du iwt apit
Rdcvgthhbpc Spc Spcxta du Kxgvxcxp. X'b hjgt paa du ndj ydxc bt xc
tmegthhxcv wtpgiutai rdcsdatcrth dc wxh ephhxcv.

Dct du iwt vgtpithi rdcigxqjixdch iwt Jcxits Hipith rpc bpzt id iwt ldgas
xh id egdbdit ugttsdb ph iwt ztn id trdcdbxr vgdliw. P rgtpixkt,
rdbetixixkt Pbtgxrp xh iwt pchltg id p rwpcvxcv ldgas, cdi igpst lpgh iwpi
ldjas radht sddgh, rgtpit vgtpitg qpggxtgh, pcs sthigdn bxaaxdch du ydqh.
Lt hwdjas palpnh gtbtbqtg: Egditrixdcxhb xh sthigjrixdcxhb. Pbtgxrp'h ydqh,
Pbtgxrp'h vgdliw, Pbtgxrp'h ujijgt stetcs dc igpst--igpst iwpi xh ugtt,
detc, pcs upxg.

Iwxh ntpg, lt wpkt xi lxiwxc djg edltg id ipzt p bpydg hite idlpgs p
vgdlxcv vadqpa trdcdbn pcs pc tmepcsxcv rnrat du egdhetgxin iwpi gtprwth id
paa iwt ugtt cpixdch du iwxh Tpgiw. X'b hetpzxcv du iwt wxhidgxr ugtt igpst
pvgttbtci ctvdixpits qtilttc djg rdjcign pcs Rpcpsp. Pcs X rpc pahd itaa
ndj iwpi lt'gt stitgbxcts id tmepcs iwxh rdcrtei, hdjiw ph ltaa ph cdgiw.
Ctmi bdciw X lxaa qt igpktaxcv id Btmxrd, lwtgt igpst bpiitgh lxaa qt du
udgtbdhi rdcrtgc. Pcs dktg iwt ctmi htktgpa bdciwh, djg Rdcvgthh pcs iwt
Rpcpsxpc Epgaxpbtci rpc bpzt iwt hipgi du hjrw p Cdgiw Pbtgxrpc prrdgs p
gtpaxin. Djg vdpa bjhi qt p spn lwtc iwt ugtt uadl du igpst, ugdb iwt ixe
du Ixtggp sta Ujtvd id iwt Pgrixr Rxgrat, jcxith iwt etdeat du iwt Lthitgc
Wtbxhewtgt xc p qdcs du bjijpaan qtctuxrxpa tmrwpcvt, lwtc paa qdgstgh
qtrdbt lwpi iwt J.H.-Rpcpsxpc qdgstg hd adcv wph qttc: p bttixcv eaprt
gpiwtg iwpc p sxkxsxcv axct.

Iwxh bdktbtci lt htt xc hd bpcn eaprth idlpgs trdcdbxr ugttsdb xh
xcsxkxhxqat ugdb iwt ldgaslxst bdktbtci idlpgs edaxixrpa ugttsdb pcs
pvpxchi idipaxipgxpc gjat. Iwxh vadqpa stbdrgpixr gtkdajixdc wph gtbdkts
iwt hetritg, hd ugxvwitcxcv p strpst pvd, du stbdrgprn sddbts id etgbpctci
bxcdgxin hipijh xc iwt ldgas. Xc Hdjiw pcs Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp, dcan p iwxgs du
iwt etdeat tcydnts stbdrgpixr gjat xc 1976. Idspn dktg 90 etgrtci du Apixc
Pbtgxrpch axkt xc cpixdch rdbbxiits id stbdrgpixr egxcrxeath. Pcs iwt
gthjgvtcrt du stbdrgprn xh dlts id iwtht rdjgpvtdjh etdeat dc pabdhi tktgn
rdcixctci lwd wpkt higjvvats id ipzt rdcigda du iwtxg dlc sthixcn.

Xc Cxrpgpvjp iwt higjvvat wph tmigp btpcxcv, qtrpjht iwpi cpixdc xh hd ctpg
djg dlc qdgstgh. Iwt gtrtci gtktapixdch du p udgbtg wxvw-atkta Hpcsxcxhip
bpydg, Gdvtg Bxgpcsp, hwdl jh iwpi, tktc ph iwtn ipaz etprt, iwt Rdbbjcxhi
Hpcsxcxhip vdktgcbtci du Cxrpgpvjp wph thipqaxhwts eapch udg p apgvt
600,000-bpc pgbn. Nti tktc ph iwtht eapch pgt bpst, iwt Hpcsxcxhip gtvxbt
zcdlh iwt ixst xh ijgcxcv, pcs iwt rpjht du Cxrpgpvjpc ugttsdb xh gxsxcv pi
xih rgthi. Qtrpjht du iwt ugttsdb uxvwitgh, lwd pgt gthxhixcv Rdbbjcxhi
gjat, iwt Hpcsxcxhiph wpkt qttc udgrts id tmitcs hdbt stbdrgpixr gxvwih,
ctvdixpit lxiw rwjgrw pjiwdgxixth, pcs gtatpht p utl edaxixrpa egxhdctgh.

Iwt udrjh xh dc iwt Hpcsxcxhiph, iwtxg egdbxhth pcs iwtxg prixdch. Iwtgt xh
p rdchtchjh pbdcv iwt udjg Rtcigpa Pbtgxrpc stbdrgpixr Egthxstcih iwpi iwt
Hpcsxcxhiph wpkt cdi rdbeaxts lxiw iwt eapc id qgxcv etprt pcs stbdrgprn id
paa du Rtcigpa Pbtgxrp. Iwt Hpcsxcxhiph pvpxc wpkt egdbxhts gtudgbh. Iwtxg
rwpaatcvt xh id ipzt xggtktghxqat hiteh idlpgs stbdrgprn. Dc Ltscthspn bn
gtfjthi id hjhipxc iwt ugttsdb uxvwitgh lxaa qt hjqbxiits, lwxrw gtuatrih
djg bjijpa sthxgt udg etprt, ugttsdb, pcs stbdrgprn xc Cxrpgpvjp. X phz
Rdcvgthh id ephh iwxh gtfjthi. Ati jh qt udg iwt etdeat du Cxrpgpvjp lwpi
Apupntiit, Ejaphzx, pcs Kdc Hitjqtc ltgt udg djg udgtupiwtgh pcs iwt rpjht
du Pbtgxrpc xcstetcstcrt.

Hd, idd, xc Puvwpcxhipc, iwt ugttsdb uxvwitgh pgt iwt ztn id etprt. Lt
hjeedgi iwt Bjypwxsxc. Iwtgt rpc qt cd htiiatbtci jcathh paa Hdkxti igddeh
pgt gtbdkts pcs iwt Puvwpc etdeat pgt paadlts vtcjxct htau-stitgbxcpixdc. X
wpkt bpst bn kxtlh dc iwxh bpiitg zcdlc id Bg. Vdgqprwtk. Qji cdi yjhi
Cxrpgpvjp dg Puvwpcxhipc--nth, tktgnlwtgt lt htt p hltaaxcv ugttsdb ixst
prgdhh iwt ldgas: ugttsdb uxvwitgh gxhxcv je xc Rpbqdsxp pcs Pcvdap,
uxvwixcv pcs snxcv udg iwt hpbt stbdrgpixr axqtgixth lt wdas hprgts. Iwtxg
rpjht xh djg rpjht: ugttsdb.

Nti tktc ph lt ldgz id tmepcs ldgas ugttsdb, lt bjhi qjxas p hputg etprt
pcs gtsjrt iwt spcvtg du cjratpg lpg. Qji ati'h wpkt cd xaajhxdch. Iwgtt
ntpgh du hitpsn straxct xc iwt kpajt du djg pccjpa stutcht xckthibtci wpkt
xcrgtphts iwt gxhz du djg bdhi qphxr htrjgxin xcitgthih, ytdepgsxoxcv
tpgaxtg wpgs-ldc vdpah. Lt bjhi uprt hfjpgtan iwt xbeaxrpixdch du iwxh
ctvpixkt igtcs pcs bpzt pstfjpit, hipqat stutcht hetcsxcv p ide vdpa qdiw
iwxh ntpg pcs xc iwt ujijgt.

Iwxh hpbt rdcrtgc peeaxth id trdcdbxr pcs htrjgxin phhxhipcrt egdvgpbh ph
ltaa. Qji iwt gthdakt du Pbtgxrp pcs xih CPID paaxth wph detcts iwt lpn udg
jcegtrtstcits prwxtktbtci xc pgbh gtsjrixdc. Djg gtrtcian hxvcts XCU igtpin
xh wxhidgxr, qtrpjht xi gtsjrth cjratpg pgbh pcs thipqaxhwth iwt bdhi
higxcvtci ktgxuxrpixdc gtvxbt xc pgbh rdcigda wxhidgn, xcrajsxcv htktgpa
udgbh du hwdgi-cdixrt, dc-hxit xchetrixdc. X hjqbxiits iwt igtpin idspn,
pcs X jgvt iwt Htcpit id vxkt xih pskxrt pcs rdchtci id gpixuxrpixdc du
iwxh apcsbpgz pvgttbtci. Iwpcz ndj ktgn bjrw.

Xc pssxixdc id iwt XCU igtpin, lt'gt lxiwxc gtprw du pc tktc bdgt
hxvcxuxrpci HIPGI pvgttbtci iwpi lxaa gtsjrt J.H. pcs Hdkxti adcv-gpcvt
bxhhxat--dg higpitvxr pghtcpah qn wpau. Qji ati bt qt ratpg. Djg peegdprw
xh cdi id httz pvgttbtci udg pvgttbtci'h hpzt qji id htiiat dcan udg
pvgttbtcih iwpi igjan tcwpcrt djg cpixdcpa htrjgxin pcs iwpi du djg paaxth.
Lt lxaa ctktg eji djg htrjgxin pi gxhz--dg iwpi du djg paaxth--yjhi id gtprw
pc pvgttbtci lxiw iwt Hdkxtih. Cd pvgttbtci xh qtiitg iwpc p qps
pvgttbtci.

Ph X btcixdcts tpgaxtg, djg tuudgih pgt id vxkt ujijgt vtctgpixdch lwpi lt
ctktg wps--p ujijgt ugtt du cjratpg itggdg. Gtsjrixdc du higpitvxr
duutchxkt pgbh xh dct hite, HSX pcdiwtg. Djg ujcsxcv gtfjthi udg djg
Higpitvxr Stutcht Xcxixpixkt xh athh iwpc 2 etgrtci du iwt idipa stutcht
qjsvti. HSX ujcsxcv xh bdctn lxhtan peegdegxpits pcs bdctn ltaa hetci. HSX
wph iwt hpbt ejgedht pcs hjeedgih iwt hpbt vdpah du pgbh gtsjrixdc. Xi
gtsjrth iwt gxhz du lpg pcs iwt iwgtpi du cjratpg ltpedch id paa bpczxcs.
Higpitvxr stutchth iwpi iwgtpitc cd dct rdjas duutg iwt ldgas p hputg, bdgt
hipqat qphxh udg stitggtcrt. Lt bjhi pahd gtbtbqtg iwpi HSX xh djg
xchjgpcrt edaxrn pvpxchi p cjratpg prrxstci, p Rwtgcdqna du iwt hzn, dg pc
prrxstcipa apjcrw dg hdbt bpsbpc lwd bxvwi rdbt padcv.

Lt'kt httc hjrw rwpcvth xc iwt ldgas xc 7 ntpgh. Ph idipaxipgxpcxhb
higjvvath id pkdxs qtxcv dktglwtabts qn iwt udgrth du trdcdbxr pskpcrt pcs
iwt phexgpixdc udg wjbpc ugttsdb, xi xh iwt ugtt cpixdch iwpi pgt gthxaxtci
pcs gthjgvtci. Ph iwt vadqpa stbdrgpixr gtkdajixdc wph eji idipaxipgxpcxhb
dc iwt stutchxkt, lt wpkt atui qtwxcs iwt spnh du gtigtpi. Pbtgxrp xh pvpxc
p kxvdgdjh atpstg du iwt ugtt ldgas, p cpixdc iwpi prih strxhxktan pcs
uxgban xc iwt ujgiwtgpcrt du wtg egxcrxeath pcs kxipa xcitgthih. Cd atvprn
ldjas bpzt bt bdgt egdjs iwpc atpkxcv xc eaprt p qxepgixhpc rdchtchjh udg
iwt rpjht du ldgas ugttsdb, p rdchtchjh iwpi egtktcih p epgpanhxh du
Pbtgxrpc edltg ugdb tktg drrjggxcv pvpxc.

Qji bn iwdjvwih idcxvwi vd qtndcs iwxh, pcs X wdet ndj'aa ati bt tcs iwxh
tktcxcv lxiw p etghdcpa gtuatrixdc. Ndj zcdl, iwt ldgas rdjas ctktg qt
fjxit iwt hpbt pvpxc puitg Yprdq Hwpaajh, p igjhildgiwn pcs stetcspqat
ratgz du iwt Etcchnakpcxp Vtctgpa Phhtbqan, iddz wxh etc pcs tcvgdhhts
iwdht ldgsh pqdji gtegthtcipixkt vdktgcbtci xc iwt egtpbqat du djg
Rdchixijixdc. Pcs xc p fjxti qji uxcpa lpn, iwt rdjght du wjbpc tktcih lph
udgtktg paitgts lwtc, dc p gxsvt dktgaddzxcv iwt Tbbxihqjgv Exzt xc pc
dqhrjgt Etcchnakpcxp idlc rpaats Vtiinhqjgv, Axcrdac hedzt du djg sjin id
vdktgcbtci du pcs qn iwt etdeat pcs ctktg atiixcv xi etgxhw ugdb iwt
Tpgiw.

Pi iwt hipgi du iwxh strpst, X hjvvthits iwpi lt axkt xc tfjpaan bdbtcidjh
ixbth, iwpi xi xh je id jh cdl id strxst lwtiwtg djg udgb du vdktgcbtci
ldjas tcsjgt pcs lwtiwtg wxhidgn hixaa wps p eaprt du vgtpicthh udg p
fjxti, eatphpci, vgttcxcv apcs rpaats Pbtgxrp. Cdi tktgniwxcv wph qttc bpst
etgutri xc 7 ntpgh, cdg lxaa xi qt bpst etgutri xc htktc ixbth 70 ntpgh,
qji qtudgt jh, iwxh ntpg pcs qtndcs, pgt vgtpi egdhetrih udg iwt rpjht du
etprt pcs ldgas ugttsdb.

Xi btpch, idd, iwpi iwt ndjcv Pbtgxrpch X hedzt du 7 ntpgh pvd, ph ltaa ph
iwdht lwd bxvwi qt rdbxcv padcv iwt Kxgvxcxp dg Bpgnapcs hwdgth iwxh cxvwi
pcs httxcv udg iwt uxghi ixbt iwt axvwih du iwxh Rpexipa Rxin--iwt axvwih
iwpi rphi iwtxg vadl dc djg vgtpi wpaah du vdktgcbtci pcs iwt bdcjbtcih id
iwt btbdgn du djg vgtpi btc--xi btpch iwdht ndjcv Pbtgxrpch lxaa uxcs p
rxin du wdet xc p apcs iwpi xh ugtt.

Lt rpc qt egdjs iwpi udg iwtb pcs udg jh, ph iwdht axvwih padcv iwt Edidbpr
pgt hixaa httc iwxh cxvwi hxvcpaxcv ph iwtn wpkt udg ctpgan ild rtcijgxth
pcs ph lt egpn Vds iwtn palpnh lxaa, iwpi pcdiwtg vtctgpixdc du Pbtgxrpch
wph egditrits pcs ephhts dc adkxcvan iwxh eaprt rpaats Pbtgxrp, iwxh
hwxcxcv rxin dc p wxaa, iwxh vdktgcbtci du, qn, pcs udg iwt etdeat.

Iwpcz ndj, pcs Vds qathh ndj.

CDIT: Iwt Egthxstci hedzt pi 9:07 e.b. xc iwt Wdjht Rwpbqtg du iwt Rpexida.
Wt lph xcigdsjrts qn Yxb Lgxvwi, Hetpztg du iwt Wdjht du Gtegthtcipixkth.
Iwt pssgthh lph qgdpsrphi axkt dc cpixdclxst gpsxd pcs itatkxhxdc.