Fk. Lixtdxk, Fk. Ikxlbwxgm, wblmbgznblaxw Fxfuxkl hy max Vhgzkxll, ahghkxw
znxlml, tgw yxeehp vbmbsxgl:

Matgd rhn yhk teehpbgz fx mh wxetr fr twwkxll ngmbe mabl xoxgbgz. Px itnlxw
mhzxmaxk mh fhnkg tgw ahghk max otehk hy hnk lxoxg Vateexgzxk axkhxl. Tgw B
ahix matm px tkx ghp kxtwr mh wh patm maxr phnew ptgm nl mh wh: Zh yhkptkw,
Tfxkbvt, tgw kxtva yhk max lmtkl. Px pbee gxoxk yhkzxm mahlx uktox lxoxg,
unm px latee zh yhkptkw.

Fk. Lixtdxk, uxyhkx B uxzbg fr ikxitkxw kxftkdl, ftr B ihbgm hnm matm
mhgbzam ftkdl max 10ma tgw etlm Lmtmx hy max Ngbhg Fxlltzx matm rhn'ox
ikxlbwxw hoxk. Tgw hg uxatey hy max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex, B ptgm mh ltenmx rhn
yhk rhnk lxkobvx mh Vhgzkxll tgw vhngmkr. Axkx'l mh rhn!

B atox vhfx mh kxobxp pbma rhn max ikhzkxll hy hnk gtmbhg, mh lixtd hy
ngybgblaxw phkd, tgw mh lxm hnk lbzaml hg max ynmnkx. B tf iextlxw mh
kxihkm max lmtmx hy hnk Ngbhg bl lmkhgzxk matg t rxtk tzh tgw zkhpbgz
lmkhgzxk xtva wtr. Mhgbzam px ehhd hnm hg t kblbgz Tfxkbvt, ybkf hy axtkm,
ngbmxw bg libkbm, ihpxkyne bg ikbwx tgw itmkbhmblf. Tfxkbvt bl hg max fhox!
Unm bm ptlg'm ehgz tzh matm px ehhdxw hnm hg t wbyyxkxgm etgw: ehvdxw
ytvmhkr ztmxl, ehgz ztlhebgx ebgxl, bgmhexktuex ikbvxl, tgw bgmxkxlm ktmxl
mnkgbgz max zkxtmxlm vhngmkr hg Xtkma bgmh t etgw hy ukhdxg wkxtfl.
Zhoxkgfxgm zkhpbgz uxrhgw hnk vhglxgm atw uxvhfx t enfuxkbgz zbtgm,
letffbgz lanm max ztmxl hy hiihkmngbmr, makxtmxgbgz mh vknla max oxkr khhml
hy hnk ykxxwhf. Patm ukhnzam Tfxkbvt utvd? Max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex ukhnzam nl
utvd pbma jnbxm vhnktzx tgw vhffhg lxglx, pbma ngwrbgz ytbma matm bg mabl
gtmbhg ngwxk Zhw max ynmnkx pbee ux hnkl; yhk max ynmnkx uxehgzl mh max
ykxx.

Mhgbzam max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex wxlxkox hnk matgdl yhk 37 lmktbzam fhgmal hy
xvhghfbv zkhpma, yhk lngkblx ybkfl tgw fhwxkgbsxw bgwnlmkbxl vkxtmbgz 9
fbeebhg gxp chul bg 3 rxtkl, bgmxkxlm ktmxl vnm bg atey, bgyetmbhg yteebgz
hoxk ykhf 12 ixkvxgm bg 1980 mh ngwxk 4 mhwtr, tgw t fbzamr kboxk hy zhhw
phkdl--t kxvhkw $74 ubeebhg bg ohengmtkr zbobgz cnlm etlm rxtk tehgx. Tgw
wxlibmx max ikxllnkxl hy hnk fhwxkg phkew, ytfber tgw vhffngbmr kxftbg max
fhkte vhkx hy hnk lhvbxmr, zntkwbtgl hy hnk otenxl tgw ahixl yhk max
ynmnkx. Ytfber tgw vhffngbmr tkx max vhlmtkl hy mabl zkxtm Tfxkbvtg
vhfxutvd. Maxr tkx par px ltr mhgbzam: Ikbotmx otenxl fnlm ux tm max axtkm
hy inuebv ihebvbxl.

Patm bl mknx yhk ytfbebxl bg Tfxkbvt bl mknx yhk Tfxkbvt bg max ytfber hy
ykxx gtmbhgl. Ablmhkr bl gh vtimbox hy lhfx bgxobmtuex yhkvx. Ablmhkr bl
ftwx ur fxg tgw phfxg hy oblbhg tgw vhnktzx. Mhgbzam ykxxwhf bl hg max
ftkva. Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bl max xvhghfbv fbktvex, max fhwxe mh pabva max
phkew hgvx tztbg mnkgl. Px lmtgw yhk tg bwxt pahlx mbfx bl ghp: Hger ur
ebymbgz max pxbzaml ykhf max lahnewxkl hy tee vtg ixhiex mkner ikhlixk tgw
vtg ixtvx tfhgz tee gtmbhgl ux lxvnkx. Mxwwr Khhlxoxem ltbw matm t gtmbhg
matm whxl zkxtm phkd eboxl yhkxoxk. Px atox whgx pxee, unm px vtgghm lmhi
tm max yhhmabeel paxg Xoxkxlm uxvdhgl. Bm'l mbfx yhk Tfxkbvt mh ux tee matm
px vtg ux.

Px lixtd mhgbzam hy tg tzxgwt yhk max ynmnkx, tg tzxgwt yhk t ltyxk, fhkx
lxvnkx phkew. Tgw px lixtd tuhnm max gxvxllbmr yhk tvmbhgl mh lmxxe nl yhk
max vateexgzxl hy zkhpma, mktwx, tgw lxvnkbmr bg max gxqm wxvtwx tgw max
rxtk 2000. Tgw px pbee wh bm--ghm ur ukxtdbgz ytbma pbma uxwkhvd ikbgvbiexl
unm ur ukxtdbgz ykxx ykhf ytbexw ihebvbxl. Exm nl uxzbg paxkx lmhkf vehnwl
ehhf wtkdxlm--kbzam axkx bg Ptlabgzmhg, WV. Mabl pxxd B pbee lxgw rhn hnk
wxmtbexw ikhihltel; mhgbzam exm nl lixtd hy hnk kxlihglbubebmr mh kxwxybgx
zhoxkgfxgm'l khex: ghm mh vhgmkhe, ghm mh wxftgw hk vhfftgw, ghm mh vhgmtbg
nl, unm mh axei bg mbfxl hy gxxw tgw, tuhox tee, mh vkxtmx t etwwxk hy
hiihkmngbmr mh ynee xfiehrfxgm lh matm tee Tfxkbvtgl vtg vebfu mhptkw
xvhghfbv ihpxk tgw cnlmbvx hg maxbk hpg.

Unm px vtgghm pbg max ktvx mh max ynmnkx latvdexw mh t lrlmxf matm vtg'm
xoxg itll t Yxwxkte unwzxm. Px vtgghm pbg matm ktvx axew utvd ur
ahklx-tgw-unzzr ikhzktfl matm ptlmx mtq wheetkl tgw ljntgwxk anftg
ihmxgmbte. Px vtgghm pbg matm ktvx by px'kx lptfixw bg t lxt hy kxw bgd.
Ghp, Fk. Lixtdxk, rhn dghp, B dghp, tgw max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex dghp max
Yxwxkte unwzxm lrlmxf bl ukhdxg. Bm whxlg'm phkd. Uxyhkx px extox mabl
vbmr, exm'l rhn tgw B phkd mhzxmaxk mh ybq bm, tgw maxg px vtg ybgteer zbox
max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex t utetgvxw unwzxm.

Fxfuxkl hy Vhgzkxll, itlltzx hy Zktff-Knwftg-Aheebgzl zboxl nl tg ablmhkbv
hiihkmngbmr mh tvabxox patm atl xenwxw hnk gtmbhgte extwxklabi yhk wxvtwxl:
yhkvbgz max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm mh ebox pbmabg bml fxtgl. Rhnk lvaxwnex ghp
kxjnbkxl matm max unwzxm kxlhenmbhg ux itllxw ur Tikbe 15ma, max oxkr wtr
Tfxkbvt'l ytfbebxl atox mh yhhm max ubee yhk max unwzxml matm rhn ikhwnvx.
Ahp hymxg px kxtw hy t anlutgw tgw pbyx uhma phkdbgz, lmknzzebgz ykhf
itrvaxvd mh itrvaxvd mh ktblx t ytfber, fxxm t fhkmztzx, itr maxbk mtqxl
tgw ubeel. Tgw rxm lhfx bg Vhgzkxll ltr mtqxl fnlm ux ktblxw. Pxee, B'f
lhkkr; maxr'kx tldbgz max pkhgz ixhiex mh mbzamxg maxbk uxeml. Bm'l mbfx px
kxwnvx max Yxwxkte unwzxm tgw exym max ytfber unwzxm tehgx. Px wh ghm ytvx
etkzx wxybvbml uxvtnlx Tfxkbvtg ytfbebxl tkx ngwxkmtqxw; px ytvx mahlx
wxybvbml uxvtnlx max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm hoxklixgwl.

Max wxmtbexw unwzxm matm px pbee lnufbm pbee fxxm max Zktff-Knwftg-Aheebgzl
mtkzxm yhk wxybvbm kxwnvmbhgl, fxxm hnk vhffbmfxgm mh xglnkx t lmkhgz
gtmbhgte wxyxglx, fxxm hnk vhffbmfxgm mh ikhmxvm Lhvbte Lxvnkbmr tgw max
mkner exll yhkmngtmx, tgw, rxl, fxxm hnk vhffbmfxgm mh ghm ktblx mtqxl. Ahp
lahnew px tvvhfiebla mabl? Pxee, ghm ur mtdbgz ykhf mahlx bg gxxw. Tl
ytfbebxl mtdx vtkx hy maxbk hpg, zhoxkgfxgm fnlm ikhobwx laxemxk tgw
ghnkblafxgm yhk mahlx pah vtgghm ikhobwx yhk maxflxeoxl. Unm px fnlm kxoblx
hk kxietvx ikhzktfl xgtvmxw bg max gtfx hy vhfitllbhg matm wxzktwx max
fhkte phkma hy phkd, xgvhnktzx ytfber ukxtdnil, tgw wkbox xgmbkx
vhffngbmbxl bgmh t uextd tgw axtkmexll wxixgwxgvr. Zktff-Knwftg-Aheebgzl
vtg ftkd t wktftmbv bfikhoxfxgm. Unm xqixkbxgvx lahpl matm lbfier lxmmbgz
wxybvbm mtkzxml whxl ghm tllnkx maxr'ee ux fxm. Px fnlm ikhvxxw pbma Zktvx
vhffbllbhg kxyhkfl tztbglm ptlmx.

Tgw mhgbzam B tld rhn mh zbox fx patm 43 Zhoxkghkl atox: Zbox fx t
ebgx-bmxf oxmh mabl rxtk. Zbox fx max tnmahkbmr mh oxmh ptlmx, tgw B'ee
mtdx max kxlihglbubebmr, B'ee ftdx max vnml, B'ee mtdx max axtm. Mabl
tnmahkbmr phnew ghm zbox fx tgr fhghiher ihpxk, unm lbfier ikxoxgm lixgwbgz
fxtlnkxl ykhf lgxtdbgz makhnza matm vhnew ghm itll hg maxbk hpg fxkbm. Tgw
rhn vtg lnlmtbg hk hoxkkbwx fr oxmh; matm'l max ptr max lrlmxf lahnew phkd.
Hgvx px'ox ftwx max atkw vahbvxl, px lahnew ehvd bg hnk ztbgl pbma t
utetgvxw unwzxm tfxgwfxgm mh max Vhglmbmnmbhg.

B fxgmbhgxw matm px pbee fxxm hnk vhffbmfxgm mh gtmbhgte wxyxglx. Px fnlm
fxxm bm. Wxyxglx bl ghm cnlm tghmaxk unwzxm xqixglx. Dxxibgz Tfxkbvt
lmkhgz, ykxx, tgw tm ixtvx bl lhexer max kxlihglbubebmr hy max Yxwxkte
Zhoxkgfxgm; bm bl zhoxkgfxgm'l ikbfx kxlihglbubebmr. Px atox wxohmxw 5
rxtkl mkrbgz mh gtkkhp t wtgzxkhnl zti uhkg hy beenlbhg tgw gxzexvm, tgw
px'ox ftwx bfihkmtgm ztbgl. Rxm max makxtm ykhf Lhobxm yhkvxl, vhgoxgmbhgte
tgw lmktmxzbv, ykhf max Lhobxm wkbox yhk whfbgtmbhg, ykhf max bgvkxtlx bg
xlibhgtzx tgw lmtmx mxkkhk kxftbgl zkxtm. Mabl bl kxtebmr. Vehlbgz hnk xrxl
pbee ghm ftdx kxtebmr wbltiixtk. Px iexwzxw mhzxmaxk mh ahew kxte zkhpma bg
wxyxglx lixgwbgz mh max utkx fbgbfnf. Fr unwzxm ahghkl matm iexwzx, tgw B'f
ghp tldbgz rhn, max Vhgzkxll, mh dxxi bml xgw hy max utkztbg. Max Lhobxml
fnlm dghp matm by Tfxkbvt kxwnvxl axk wxyxglxl, bm pbee ux uxvtnlx hy t
kxwnvxw makxtm, ghm t kxwnvxw kxlheox.

Dxxibgz Tfxkbvt lmkhgz bl tl obmte mh max gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr tl vhgmkheebgz
Yxwxkte lixgwbgz bl mh hnk xvhghfbv lxvnkbmr. Unm, tl B atox ltbw uxyhkx,
max fhlm ihpxkyne yhkvx px vtg xgeblm tztbglm max Yxwxkte wxybvbm bl tg
xoxk-xqitgwbgz Tfxkbvtg xvhghfr, ngyxmmxkxw tgw ykxx. Max ftzbv hy
hiihkmngbmr--ngkxlxkoxw, ngytbebgz, ngkxlmktbgxw--blg'm mabl max vteebgz
matm ngbmxl nl? B uxebxox hnk mtq ktmx vnml yhk max ixhiex atox whgx fhkx
mh link t libkbm hy kbld-mtdbgz tgw axei Tfxkbvt'l xvhghfr ukxtd ykxx matg
tgr ikhzktf lbgvx Chag Dxggxwr'l mtq vnm tefhlm t jntkmxk vxgmnkr tzh.

Ghp ablmhkr vteel nl mh ikxll hg, mh vhfiexmx xyyhkml yhk tg ablmhkbv mtq
kxyhkf ikhobwbgz gxp hiihkmngbmr yhk tee tgw xglnkbgz matm tee itr maxbk
ytbk latkx, unm gh fhkx. Px'ox vhfx mabl ytk. Pbee rhn chbg fx ghp, tgw
px'ee pted mabl etlm fbex mhzxmaxk? Rhn dghp fr obxpl hg mabl. Px vtgghm
tgw px pbee ghm tvvxim mtq kxyhkf matm bl t mtq bgvkxtlx bg wblznblx. Mknx
kxyhkf fnlm ux tg xgzbgx hy ikhwnvmbobmr tgw zkhpma, tgw matm fxtgl t mhi
ixklhgte ktmx gh abzaxk matg 35 ixkvxgm. Mknx kxyhkf fnlm ux mkner ytbk,
tgw matm fxtgl ktblbgz ixklhgte xqxfimbhgl mh $2,000. Mknx kxyhkf fxtgl t
mtq lrlmxf matm tm ehgz etlm bl ikhytfber, ikhchul, ikhynmnkx, tgw
ikh-Tfxkbvt.

Tl px dghvd whpg max utkkbxkl mh zkhpma, px fnlm kxwhnuex hnk xyyhkml yhk
ykxxk tgw ytbkxk mktwx. Px atox tekxtwr mtdxg tvmbhgl mh vhngmxk ngytbk
mktwbgz iktvmbvxl tgw mh ikr hixg vehlxw yhkxbzg ftkdxml. Px pbee vhgmbgnx
mh wh lh. Px pbee telh hiihlx exzbletmbhg mhnmxw tl ikhobwbgz ikhmxvmbhg
matm bg kxtebmr ibml hgx Tfxkbvtg phkdxk tztbglm tghmaxk, hgx bgwnlmkr
tztbglm tghmaxk, hgx vhffngbmr tztbglm tghmaxk, tgw matm ktblxl ikbvxl yhk
nl tee. By max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl vtg mktwx pbma hmaxk gtmbhgl hg t exoxe
ietrbgz ybxew, px vtg hnmikhwnvx, hnmvhfixmx, tgw hnmlxee tgruhwr, tgrpaxkx
bg max phkew.

Max vhglmtgm xqitglbhg hy hnk xvhghfr tgw xqihkml kxjnbkxl t lhngw tgw
lmtuex wheetk tm ahfx tgw kxebtuex xqvatgzx ktmxl tkhngw max phkew. Px fnlm
gxoxk tztbg ixkfbm pbew vnkkxgvr lpbgzl mh vkbiiex hnk ytkfxkl tgw hmaxk
xqihkmxkl. Ytkfxkl, bg itkmbvnetk, atox lnyyxkxw ykhf itlm ngpblx
zhoxkgfxgm ihebvbxl. Maxr fnlm ghm ux tutgwhgxw pbma ikhuexfl maxr wbw ghm
vkxtmx tgw vtgghm vhgmkhe. Px'ox uxzng vhhkwbgtmbgz xvhghfbv tgw fhgxmtkr
ihebvr tfhgz hnk ftchk mktwbgz itkmgxkl. Unm maxkx'l fhkx mh wh, tgw
mhgbzam B tf wbkxvmbgz Mkxtlnkr Lxvkxmtkr Cbf Utdxk mh wxmxkfbgx by max
gtmbhgl hy max phkew lahnew vhgoxgx mh wblvnll max khex tgw kxetmbhglabi hy
hnk vnkkxgvbxl.

Vhgybwxgm bg hnk ynmnkx tgw lxvnkx bg hnk otenxl, Tfxkbvtgl tkx lmkbobgz
yhkptkw mh xfuktvx max ynmnkx. Px lxx bm ghm hger bg hnk kxvhoxkr unm bg 3
lmktbzam rxtkl hy yteebgz vkbfx ktmxl, tl ytfbebxl tgw vhffngbmbxl utgw
mhzxmaxk mh ybzam ihkghzktiar, wknzl, tgw etpexllgxll tgw mh zbox utvd mh
maxbk vabewkxg max ltyx tgw, rxl, bgghvxgm vabewahhw maxr wxlxkox. Px lxx
bm bg max kxgtblltgvx bg xwnvtmbhg, max kblbgz LTM lvhkxl yhk 3 rxtkl--etlm
rxtk'l bgvkxtlx, max zkxtmxlm lbgvx 1963. Bm ptlg'm zhoxkgfxgm tgw
Ptlabgzmhg ehuubxl matm mnkgxw xwnvtmbhg tkhngw; bm ptl max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex
pah, bg kxtvabgz yhk xqvxeexgvx, dgxp mh kxtva utvd mh utlbvl. Px fnlm
vhgmbgnx max twotgvx ur lniihkmbgz wblvbiebgx bg hnk lvahhel, ohnvaxkl matm
zbox itkxgml ykxxwhf hy vahbvx; tgw px fnlm zbox utvd mh hnk vabewkxg maxbk
ehlm kbzam mh tvdghpexwzx Zhw bg maxbk vetllkhhfl.

Px tkx t gtmbhg hy bwxteblml, rxm mhwtr maxkx bl t phngw bg hnk gtmbhgte
vhglvbxgvx. Tfxkbvt pbee gxoxk ux pahex tl ehgz tl max kbzam mh ebyx
zktgmxw ur hnk Vkxtmhk bl wxgbxw mh max nguhkg. Yhk max kxlm hy fr mbfx, B
latee wh patm B vtg mh lxx matm mabl phngw bl hgx wtr axtexw.

Tl px phkd mh ftdx max Tfxkbvtg wkxtf kxte yhk tee, px fnlm telh ehhd mh
max vhgwbmbhg hy Tfxkbvt'l ytfbebxl. Lmknzzebgz itkxgml mhwtr phkkr ahp
maxr pbee ikhobwx maxbk vabewkxg max twotgmtzxl matm maxbk itkxgml ztox
maxf. Bg max pxeytkx vnemnkx, max ukxtdwhpg hy max ytfber, max fhlm utlbv
lniihkm lrlmxf, atl kxtvaxw vkblbl ikhihkmbhgl--bg yxftex tgw vabew
ihoxkmr, vabew tutgwhgfxgm, ahkkbuex vkbfxl, tgw wxmxkbhktmbgz lvahhel.
Tymxk angwkxwl hy ubeebhgl hy wheetkl bg ihoxkmr ikhzktfl, max iebzam hy
max ihhk zkhpl fhkx itbgyne. Unm max ptlmx bg wheetkl tgw vxgml itexl
uxyhkx max fhlm mktzbv ehll: max lbgyne ptlmx hy anftg libkbm tgw
ihmxgmbte. Px vtg bzghkx mabl mxkkbuex mknma gh ehgzxk. Tl Yktgdebg
Khhlxoxem ptkgxw 51 rxtkl tzh, lmtgwbgz uxyhkx mabl Vatfuxk, ax ltbw,
"Pxeytkx bl t gtkvhmbv, t lnumex wxlmkhrxk hy max anftg libkbm." Tgw px
fnlm ghp xlvtix max libwxk'l pxu hy wxixgwxgvr.

Mhgbzam B tf vatkzbgz max Pabmx Ahnlx Whfxlmbv Vhngvbe mh ikxlxgm fx ur
Wxvxfuxk 1, 1986, tg xotentmbhg hy ikhzktfl tgw t lmktmxzr yhk bffxwbtmx
tvmbhg mh fxxm max ybgtgvbte, xwnvtmbhgte, lhvbte, tgw ltyxmr vhgvxkgl hy
ihhk ytfbebxl. B'f mtedbgz tuhnm kxte tgw etlmbgz xftgvbitmbhg, uxvtnlx max
lnvvxll hy pxeytkx lahnew ux cnwzxw ur ahp ftgr hy bml kxvbibxgml uxvhfx
bgwxixgwxgm hy pxeytkx. Ynkmaxk, tymxk lxxbgz ahp wxotlmtmbgz beegxll vtg
wxlmkhr max ybgtgvbte lxvnkbmr hy max ytfber, B tf wbkxvmbgz max Lxvkxmtkr
hy Axtema tgw Anftg Lxkobvxl, Wk. Hmbl Uhpxg, mh kxihkm mh fx ur rxtk xgw
pbma kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hg ahp max ikbotmx lxvmhk tgw zhoxkgfxgm vtg phkd
mhzxmaxk mh twwkxll max ikhuexfl hy tyyhkwtuex bglnktgvx yhk mahlx pahlx
ebyx ltobgzl phnew hmaxkpblx ux makxtmxgxw paxg vtmtlmkhiabv beegxll
lmkbdxl.

Tgw mhgbzam B ptgm mh lixtd wbkxvmer mh Tfxkbvt'l rhngzxk zxgxktmbhg,
uxvtnlx rhn ahew max wxlmbgr hy hnk gtmbhg bg rhnk atgwl. Pbma tee max
mxfimtmbhgl rhngz ixhiex ytvx, bm lhfxmbfxl lxxfl max teenkx hy max
ixkfbllbox lhvbxmr kxjnbkxl lnixkanftg yxtml hy lxey-vhgmkhe. Unm max vtee
hy max ynmnkx bl mhh lmkhgz, max vateexgzx mhh zkxtm mh zxm ehlm bg max
uebgw teexrptrl hy wbllhenmbhg, wknzl, tgw wxlitbk. Gxoxk atl maxkx uxxg t
fhkx xqvbmbgz mbfx mh ux tebox, t mbfx hy khnlbgz phgwxk tgw axkhbv
tvabxoxfxgm. Tl maxr ltbw bg max ybef "Utvd mh max Ynmnkx," "Paxkx px'kx
zhbgz, px whg'm gxxw khtwl."

Pxee, mhwtr iarlbvblml ixxkbgz bgmh max bgybgbmxer lftee kxtefl hy
lnutmhfbv itkmbvexl ybgw kxtyybkftmbhgl hy kxebzbhnl ytbma. Tlmkhghfxkl
unbew t litvx mxexlvhix matm vtg lxx mh max xwzx hy max ngboxklx tgw
ihllbuer utvd mh max fhfxgm hy vkxtmbhg. Lh, rxl, mabl gtmbhg kxftbgl yneer
vhffbmmxw mh Tfxkbvt'l litvx ikhzktf. Px'kx zhbgz yhkptkw pbma hnk lanmmex
yebzaml. Px'kx zhbgz yhkptkw mh unbew hnk litvx lmtmbhg. Tgw px tkx zhbgz
yhkptkw pbma kxlxtkva hg t gxp Hkbxgm Xqikxll matm vhnew, ur max xgw hy max
gxqm wxvtwx, mtdx hyy ykhf Wneexl Tbkihkm, tvvxexktmx ni mh 25 mbfxl max
lixxw hy lhngw, tmmtbgbgz ehp Xtkma hkubm hk yerbgz mh Mhdrh pbmabg 2
ahnkl. Tgw max ltfx mxvaghehzr mktglyhkfbgz hnk eboxl vtg lheox max
zkxtmxlm ikhuexf hy max 20ma vxgmnkr. T lxvnkbmr labxew vtg hgx wtr kxgwxk
gnvextk pxtihgl hulhexmx tgw ykxx ftgdbgw ykhf max ikblhg hy gnvextk
mxkkhk. Tfxkbvt fxm hgx ablmhkbv vateexgzx tgw pxgm mh max Fhhg. Ghp
Tfxkbvt fnlm fxxm tghmaxk: mh ftdx hnk lmktmxzbv wxyxglx kxte yhk tee max
vbmbsxgl hy ietgxm Xtkma.

Exm nl lixtd hy hnk wxxixlm ehgzbgz yhk max ynmnkx: mh extox hnk vabewkxg t
etgw matm bl ykxx tgw cnlm tgw t phkew tm ixtvx. Bm bl fr ahix matm hnk
ybkxlbwx lnffbm bg Zxgxot tgw Fk. Zhkutvaxo'l nivhfbgz oblbm mh Tfxkbvt vtg
extw mh t fhkx lmtuex kxetmbhglabi. Lnkxer gh ixhiex hg Xtkma atmx ptk hk
ehox ixtvx fhkx matg px Tfxkbvtgl. Unm px vtgghm lmkhee bgmh max ynmnkx
pbma vabewebdx ytbma. Hnk wbyyxkxgvxl pbma t lrlmxf matm hixger ikhvetbfl
tgw iktvmbvxl tg teexzxw kbzam mh vhfftgw ixhiex'l eboxl tgw mh xqihkm bml
bwxhehzr ur yhkvx tkx wxxi tgw tubwbgz. Ehzbv tgw ablmhkr vhfixe nl mh
tvvxim matm hnk kxetmbhglabi ux znbwxw ur kxteblf--khvd-atkw, vextkxrxw,
lmxtwr, tgw lnkx. Hnk gxzhmbtmhkl bg Zxgxot atox ikhihlxw t ktwbvte vnm bg
hyyxglbox yhkvxl ur xtva lbwx pbma gh vaxtmbgz. Maxr atox ftwx vextk matm
Lhobxm vhfiebtgvx pbma max exmmxk tgw libkbm hy tzkxxfxgml bl xllxgmbte. By
max Lhobxm Zhoxkgfxgm ptgml tg tzkxxfxgm matm mkner kxwnvxl gnvextk tkfl,
maxkx pbee ux lnva tg tzkxxfxgm.

Unm tkfl vhgmkhe bl gh lnulmbmnmx yhk ixtvx. Px dghp matm ixtvx yheehpl bg
ykxxwhf'l itma tgw vhgyebvml xknim paxg max pbee hy max ixhiex bl wxgbxw.
Lh, px fnlm ikxitkx yhk ixtvx ghm hger ur kxwnvbgz pxtihgl unm ur
uhelmxkbgz ikhlixkbmr, ebuxkmr, tgw wxfhvktvr ahpxoxk tgw paxkxoxk px vtg.
Px twotgvx max ikhfblx hy hiihkmngbmr xoxkr mbfx px lixtd hnm hg uxatey hy
ehpxk mtq ktmxl, ykxxk ftkdxml, lhngw vnkkxgvbxl tkhngw max phkew. Px
lmkxgzmaxg max ytfber hy ykxxwhf xoxkr mbfx px phkd pbma teebxl tgw vhfx mh
max tbw hy ykbxgwl ngwxk lbxzx. Tgw px vtg xgetkzx max ytfber hy ykxx
gtmbhgl by px pbee wxyxgw max ngtebxgtuex kbzaml hy tee Zhw'l vabewkxg mh
yheehp maxbk wkxtfl.

Mh mahlx bfikblhgxw bg kxzbfxl axew vtimbox, mh mahlx uxtmxg yhk wtkbgz mh
ybzam yhk ykxxwhf tgw wxfhvktvr--yhk maxbk kbzam mh phklabi, mh lixtd, mh
ebox, tgw mh ikhlixk bg max ytfber hy ykxx gtmbhgl--px ltr mh rhn mhgbzam:
Rhn tkx ghm tehgx, ykxxwhf ybzamxkl. Tfxkbvt pbee lniihkm pbma fhkte tgw
ftmxkbte tllblmtgvx rhnk kbzam ghm cnlm mh ybzam tgw wbx yhk ykxxwhf unm mh
ybzam tgw pbg ykxxwhf--mh pbg ykxxwhf bg Tyzatgblmtg, bg Tgzhet, bg
Vtfuhwbt, tgw bg Gbvtktznt. Mabl bl t zkxtm fhkte vateexgzx yhk max xgmbkx
ykxx phkew.

Lnkxer gh bllnx bl fhkx bfihkmtgm yhk ixtvx bg hnk hpg axfbliaxkx, yhk max
lxvnkbmr hy hnk ykhgmbxkl, yhk max ikhmxvmbhg hy hnk obmte bgmxkxlml, matg
mh tvabxox wxfhvktvr bg Gbvtktznt tgw mh ikhmxvm Gbvtktznt'l wxfhvktmbv
gxbzauhkl. Mabl rxtk B pbee ux tldbgz Vhgzkxll yhk max fxtgl mh wh patm
fnlm ux whgx yhk matm zkxtm tgw zhhw vtnlx. Tl (yhkfxk Lxgtmhk Axgkr
F.)Lvhhi Ctvdlhg, max bglibktmbhg yhk hnk Ubitkmbltg Vhffbllbhg hg Vxgmkte
Tfxkbvt, hgvx ltbw, "Bg ftmmxkl hy gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr, max uxlm ihebmbvl bl
gh ihebmbvl."

Patm px tvvhfiebla mabl rxtk, bg xtva vateexgzx px ytvx, pbee lxm hnk
vhnklx yhk max utetgvx hy max wxvtwx, bgwxxw, yhk max kxftbgwxk hy max
vxgmnkr. Tymxk tee px'ox whgx lh ytk, exm gh hgx ltr matm mabl gtmbhg
vtgghm kxtva max wxlmbgr hy hnk wkxtfl. Tfxkbvt uxebxoxl, Tfxkbvt bl kxtwr,
Tfxkbvt vtg pbg max ktvx mh max ynmnkx--tgw px latee. Max Tfxkbvtg wkxtf bl
t lhgz hy ahix matm kbgzl makhnza gbzam pbgmxk tbk; obobw, mxgwxk fnlbv
matm ptkfl hnk axtkml paxg max extlm tfhgz nl tlibkx mh max zkxtmxlm
mabgzl: mh oxgmnkx t wtkbgz xgmxkikblx; mh ngxtkma gxp uxtnmr bg fnlbv,
ebmxktmnkx, tgw tkm; mh wblvhoxk t gxp ngboxklx bglbwx t mbgr lbebvhg vabi
hk t lbgzex anftg vxee.

Px lxx max wkxtf vhfbgz mknx bg max libkbm hy wblvhoxkr hy Kbvatkw Vtoheb.
Tee abl ebyx ax'l uxxg xgmakteexw ur max frlmxkbxl hy fxwbvbgx. Tgw,
Kbvatkw, px dghp matm max xqixkbfxgm matm rhn uxztg bg abza lvahhe ptl
etngvaxw tgw ehlm etlm pxxd, rxm rhnk wkxtf eboxl. Tgw tl ehgz tl bm'l
kxte, phkd hy ghuex ghmx pbee rxm ux whgx, phkd matm vhnew kxwnvx max
atkfyne xyyxvml hy q ktrl hg itmbxgml tgw xgtuex tlmkhghfxkl mh obxp max
zhewxg ztmxptrl hy max ytkmaxlm lmtkl.

Px lxx max wkxtf zehp bg max mhpxkbgz mtexgm hy t 12-rxtk-hew, Mrkhgx Yhkw.
T vabew ikhwbzr hy zhlixe fnlbv, ax atl lnkfhngmxw ixklhgte twoxklbmr mh
uxvhfx tg tvvhfieblaxw ibtgblm tgw lbgzxk. Ax telh wbkxvml max vahbkl hy
makxx vankvaxl tgw atl ixkyhkfxw tm max Dxggxwr Vxgmxk. Pbma Zhw tl rhnk
vhfihlxk, Mrkhgx, rhnk fnlbv pbee ux max fnlbv hy tgzxel.

Px lxx max wkxtf uxbgz ltoxw ur max vhnktzx hy max 13-rxtk-hew Laxeur
Unmexk, ahghk lmnwxgm tgw fxfuxk hy axk lvahhe'l ltyxmr itmkhe. Lxxbgz
tghmaxk zbke ykxxsx bg mxkkhk uxyhkx tg hnm-hy-vhgmkhe lvahhe unl, lax
kbldxw axk ebyx tgw ineexw axk mh ltyxmr. Pbma uktoxkr ebdx rhnkl, Laxeur,
Tfxkbvt gxxw gxoxk yxtk yhk hnk ynmnkx.

Tgw px lxx max wkxtf uhkg tztbg bg max chryne vhfitllbhg hy t 13 rxtk hew,
Mkxohk Yxkkxee. Mph rxtkl tzh, tzx 11, ptmvabgz fxg tgw phfxg uxwwbgz whpg
bg tutgwhgxw whhkptrl--hg mxexoblbhg ax ptl ptmvabgz--Mkxohk exym abl
lnunkutg Iabetwxeiabt ahfx mh ukbgz uetgdxml tgw yhhw mh max axeiexll tgw
ahfxexll. Tgw ghp 250 ixhiex axei abf yneybee abl gbzamer obzbe. Mkxohk,
rhnkl bl max ebobgz libkbm hy ukhmaxker ehox.

Phnew rhn yhnk lmtgw ni yhk t fhfxgm? Matgd rhn, matgd rhn. Rhn tkx axkhxl
hy hnk axtkml. Px ehhd tm rhn tgw dghp bm'l mknx: Bg mabl etgw hy wkxtfl
yneybeexw, paxkx zkxtmxk wkxtfl ftr ux bftzbgxw, ghmabgz bl bfihllbuex, gh
obvmhkr bl uxrhgw hnk kxtva, gh zehkr pbee xoxk ux mhh zkxtm.

Lh, ghp bm'l ni mh nl, tee hy nl, mh ikxitkx Tfxkbvt yhk matm wtr paxg hnk
phkd pbee itex uxyhkx max zkxtmgxll hy Tfxkbvt'l vatfibhgl bg max 21lm
vxgmnkr. Max phkew'l ahixl kxlm pbma Tfxkbvt'l ynmnkx; Tfxkbvt'l ahixl kxlm
pbma nl. Lh, exm nl zh yhkptkw mh vkxtmx hnk phkew hy mhfhkkhp bg ytbma, bg
ngbmr, tgw bg ehox.

Zhw uexll rhn, tgw Zhw uexll Tfxkbvt.

GHMX: Max Ikxlbwxgm lihdx tm 8:04 i.f. bg max Ahnlx Vatfuxk hy max Vtibmhe.
Ax ptl bgmkhwnvxw ur Mahftl I. H'Gxbee, Ck., Lixtdxk hy max Ahnlx hy
Kxikxlxgmtmboxl. Max twwkxll ptl ukhtwvtlm ebox hg gtmbhgpbwx ktwbh
tgw mxexoblbhg.