Di. Jgvrbvi, Di. Givjzuvek, uzjkzexlzjyvu Dvdsvij fw kyv Tfexivjj, yfefivu
xlvjkj, reu wvccfn tzkzqvej:

Kyzj jfcvde fttrjzfe dribj kyv 196ky kzdv kyrk r Givjzuvek fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj yrj ivgfikvu fe kyv Jkrkv fw kyv Lezfe jzetv Xvfixv Nrjyzexkfe wzijk
uzu jf ze 1790. Kyrk'j r cfk fw ivgfikj, slk kyviv'j ef jyfikrxv fw evn
kyzexj kf jrp rsflk kyv Jkrkv fw kyv Lezfe. Kyv mvip bvp kf fli jlttvjj yrj
svve fli rszczkp, wfivdfjk rdfex erkzfej, kf givjvimv fli crjkzex mrclvj sp
drbzex tyrexv nfib wfi lj irkyvi kyre rxrzejk lj.

Z nflcu czbv kf krcb nzky pfl kyzj vmvezex rsflk nyrk nv tre uf
kfxvkyvi--efk rj Ivglscztrej reu Uvdftirkj, slk rj Rdviztrej--kf drbv
kfdfiifn'j Rdviztr yrggp reu gifjgviflj rk yfdv, jkifex reu ivjgvtkvu
rsifru, reu rk gvrtv ze kyv nficu.

Rj nv xrkyvi yviv kfezxyk, kyv jkrkv fw fli Lezfe zj jkifex, slk fli
vtfefdp zj kiflscvu. Wfi kff drep fw fli wvccfn tzkzqvej--wridvij, jkvvc reu
rlkf nfibvij, cldsvidve, scrtb kvverxvij, nfibzex dfkyvij--kyzj zj r grzewlc
gvizfu. Nv dljk rcc uf vmvipkyzex ze fli gfnvi kf sizex kyvzi fiuvrc kf re
veu. Zk yrj wrccve kf lj, ze fli kzdv, kf leuf urdrxv kyrk nrj r cfex kzdv
ze kyv drbzex, reu kf svxze kyv yriu slk evtvjjrip krjb fw slzcuzex r
svkkvi wlkliv wfi flijvcmvj reu fli tyzcuive.

Nv yrmv r cfex nrp kf xf, slk kyrebj kf kyv tflirxv, grkzvetv, reu jkivexky
fw fli gvfgcv, Rdviztr zj fe kyv dveu.

Slk cvk dv xzmv pfl aljk fev zdgfikrek ivrjfe nyp Z svczvmv kyzj--zk
zemfcmvj drep dvdsvij fw kyzj sfup.

Aljk 10 urpj rxf, rwkvi dfekyj fw uvsrkv reu uvrucftb, kyv szgrikzjre
Tfddzjjzfe fe Jftzrc Jvtlizkp rttfdgczjyvu kyv jvvdzexcp zdgfjjzscv. Jftzrc
jvtlizkp, rj jfdv fw lj yru nrievu wfi jf cfex, wrtvu uzjrjkvi. Z, dpjvcw,
yrmv svve krcbzex rsflk kyzj gifscvd wfi rcdfjk 30 pvrij. Rj 1983 svxre,
kyv jpjkvd jkffu fe kyv sizeb fw srebilgktp, r uflscv mztkzd fw fli
vtfefdzt zccj. Wzijk, r uvtruv fw irdgrek zewcrkzfe uirzevu zkj ivjvimvj rj
nv kizvu kf gifkvtk svevwztzrizvj wifd kyv jgzirczex tfjk fw czmzex. Kyve
kyv ivtvjjzfe reu kyv jluuve veu fw zewcrkzfe nzkyvivu kyv vogreuzex nrxv
srjv reu zetivrjzex ivmvelvj kyv jpjkvd evvuj kf jlggfik kyv 36 dzcczfe
Rdviztrej nyf uvgveu fe zk.

Nyve kyv Jgvrbvi fw kyv Yfljv, kyv Jverkv drafizkp cvruvi, reu Z gviwfidvu
kyv szgrikzjre--fi wfidvu kyv szgrikzjre Tfddzjjzfe fe Jftzrc Jvtlizkp,
gleuzkj reu vogvikj givuztkvu kyrk grikp uzmzjzfej reu tfewcztkzex
zekvivjkj nflcu givmvek kyv Tfddzjjzfe wifd rxivvzex fe r gcre kf jrmv
jftzrc jvtlizkp. Nvcc, jfdvkzdvj, vmve yviv ze Nrjyzexkfe, kyv tpeztj riv
nifex. Kyiflxy tfdgifdzjv reu tffgvirkzfe, kyv dvdsvij fw kyv Tfddzjjzfe
fmvitrdv kyvzi uzwwvivetvj reu rtyzvmvu r wrzi, nfibrscv gcre. Kyvp gifmvu
kyrk, nyve zk tfdvj kf kyv erkzferc nvcwriv, Rdviztrej tre jkzcc glcc
kfxvkyvi wfi kyv tfddfe xffu.

Kfezxyk, Z'd vjgvtzrccp gcvrjvu kf afze nzky kyv Jgvrbvi reu kyv Jverkv
drafizkp cvruvi ze lixzex kyv Tfexivjj kf vertk kyzj gcre sp Vrjkvi.

Kyviv riv vcvdvekj ze zk, fw tflijv, kyrk efev fw lj givwvij, slk krbve
kfxvkyvi zk gviwfidj r grtbrxv kyrk rcc fw lj tre jlggfik. Zk rjbj wfi jfdv
jrtizwztv sp rcc--kyv jvcw-vdgcfpvu, svevwztzrizvj, nfibvij, xfmviedvek
vdgcfpvvj, reu kyv svkkvi-fww rdfex kyv ivkzivu--slk zk zdgfjvj re leulv
sliuve fe efev. Reu, ze jlggfikzex zk, nv bvvg re zdgfikrek gcvuxv kf kyv
Rdviztre gvfgcv: Kyv zekvxizkp fw kyv jftzrc jvtlizkp jpjkvd nzcc sv
givjvimvu, reu ef fev'j grpdvekj nzcc sv ivultvu.

Kyv Tfddzjjzfe'j gcre nzcc uf kyv afs; zeuvvu, zk dljk uf kyv afs. Nv fnv
zk kf kfurp'j fcuvi Rdviztrej reu kfurp'j pflexvi nfibvij. Jf, svwfiv nv xf
rep wlikyvi, Z rjb pfl kf afze nzky dv ze jrclkzex kyv dvdsvij fw kyv
Tfddzjjzfe nyf riv yviv kfezxyk reu Jverkv Drafizkp Cvruvi Yfnriu Srbvi reu
Jgvrbvi Kzg F'Evzcc wfi r afs nvcc ufev. Z yfgv reu girp kyv szgrikzjre
jgzizk kyrk xlzuvu pfl ze kyzj veuvrmfi nzcc zejgziv rcc fw lj rj nv wrtv
kyv tyrccvexvj fw kyv pvri ryvru.

Evricp yrcw r tveklip rxf, ze kyzj Tyrdsvi, refkyvi Rdviztre Givjzuvek,
Wirebcze Uvcref Iffjvmvck, ze yzj jvtfeu Jkrkv fw kyv Lezfe dvjjrxv, lixvu
Rdviztr kf cffb kf kyv wlkliv, kf dvvk kyv tyrccvexv fw tyrexv reu kyv evvu
wfi cvruvijyzg kyrk cffbj wfinriu, efk srtbnriu.

"Kyiflxyflk kyv nficu," yv jrzu, "tyrexv zj kyv fiuvi fw kyv urp. Ze vmvip
erkzfe vtfefdzt gifscvdj cfex ze kyv drbzex yrmv siflxyk tizjvj kf (fw)
drep bzeuj wfi nyzty kyv drjkvij fw fcu girtkztv reu kyvfip nviv
legivgrivu." Yv rcjf ivdzeuvu lj kyrk "kyv wlkliv czvj nzky kyfjv nzjv
gfczkztrc cvruvij nyf ivrczqv kyrk kyv xivrk glsczt zj zekvivjkvu dfiv ze
Xfmviedvek kyre ze gfczkztj."

Jf, cvk lj, ze kyvjv evok 2 pvrij--dve reu nfdve fw sfky grikzvj, vmvip
gfczkztrc jyruv--tfetvekirkv fe kyv cfex-irexv, szgrikzjre ivjgfejzszczkzvj
fw xfmviedvek, efk kyv jyfik-irexv fi jyfik-kvid kvdgkrkzfej fw grikzjre
gfczkztj.

Kyv gifscvdj nv zeyvizkvu nviv wri nfijv kyre dfjk zejzuv reu flk fw
xfmviedvek yru vogvtkvu; kyv ivtvjjzfe nrj uvvgvi kyre dfjk zejzuv reu flk
fw xfmviedvek yru givuztkvu. Tlizex kyfjv gifscvdj yrj krbve dfiv kzdv reu
r yzxyvi kfcc kyre rep fw lj nrekvu. Levdgcfpdvek zj wri kff yzxy.
Gifavtkvu Wvuvirc jgveuzex--zw xfmviedvek ivwljvj kf kzxykve zkj fne
svck--nzcc rcjf sv wri kff yzxy reu tflcu nvrbve reu jyfikve kyv vtfefdzt
ivtfmvip efn leuvinrp.

Kyzj ivtfmvip nzcc sizex nzky zk r ivmzmrc fw vtfefdzt tfewzuvetv reu
jgveuzex wfi tfejldvi zkvdj reu trgzkrc xffuj--kyv jkzdlclj nv evvu kf
ivjkrik fli jkrccvu vtfefdzt vexzevj. Kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv yrmv rcivrup
jkvggvu lg kyvzi irkv fw jrmzex, rjjlizex kyrk kyv wleuj evvuvu kf
dfuviezqv fli wrtkfizvj reu zdgifmv fli kvtyefcfxp nzcc fetv rxrze wcfn kf
sljzevjj reu zeuljkip.

Kyv zewcrkzferip vogvtkrkzfej kyrk cvu kf r 21 1/2-gvitvek zekvivjk gizdv
irkv reu jfrizex dfikxrxv irkvj 2 pvrij rxf riv efn ivultvu sp rcdfjk yrcw.
Cvruvij yrmv jkrikvu kf ivrczqv kyrk uflscv-uzxzk zewcrkzfe zj ef cfexvi r
nrp fw czwv. Z dzjjgfbv kyviv. Z jyflcu yrmv jrzu "cveuvij."

Jf, zekvivjk irkvj yrmv kldscvu, grmzex kyv nrp wfi ivtfmvip ze mzkrc
zeuljkizvj czbv yfljzex reu rlkfj.

Kyv vricp vmzuvetv fw kyrk ivtfmvip yrj jkrikvu tfdzex ze. Yfljzex jkrikj
wfi kyv wfliky hlrikvi fw 1982 nviv lg 45 gvitvek wifd r pvri rxf, reu
yfljzex gvidzkj, r jliv zeuztrkfi fw wlkliv xifnky, nviv lg r nyfggzex 60
gvitvek.

Nv'iv nzkevjjzex re lgjlixv fw gifultkzmzkp reu zdgivjjzmv vmzuvetv kyrk
Rdviztre zeuljkip nzcc fetv rxrze svtfdv tfdgvkzkzmv ze dribvkj rk yfdv reu
rsifru, vejlizex dfiv afsj reu svkkvi zetfdvj wfi kyv Erkzfe'j nfib wfitv.
Slk fli tfewzuvetv dljk rcjf sv kvdgvivu sp ivrczjd reu grkzvetv. Hlztb
wzovj reu rikzwztzrc jkzdlcrekj ivgvrkvucp rggczvu fmvi uvtruvj riv nyrk
siflxyk lj kyv zewcrkzferip uzjfiuvij kyrk nv'mv efn grzu jlty r yvrmp
giztv kf tliv.

Kyv gvidrevek ivtfmvip ze vdgcfpdvek, gifultkzfe, reu zemvjkdvek nv jvvb
nfe'k tfdv ze r jyrig, jyfik jglik. Zk'cc slzcu trivwlccp reu jkvruzcp ze
kyv dfekyj reu pvrij ryvru. Ze kyv dvrekzdv, kyv tyrccvexv fw xfmviedvek zj
kf zuvekzwp kyv kyzexj kyrk nv tre uf efn kf vrjv kyv drjjzmv vtfefdzt
kirejzkzfe wfi kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv.

Kyv Wvuvirc sluxvk zj sfky r jpdgkfd reu r trljv fw fli vtfefdzt gifscvdj.
Lecvjj nv ivultv kyv urexviflj xifnky irkv ze xfmviedvek jgveuzex, nv tflcu
wrtv kyv gifjgvtk fw jclxxzjy vtfefdzt xifnky zekf kyv zeuvwzezkv wlkliv.
Wrzcliv kf tfgv nzky kyzj gifscvd efn tflcu dvre rj dlty rj r kizcczfe
ufccrij dfiv ze erkzferc uvsk ze kyv evok 4 pvrij rcfev. Kyrk nflcu rmvirxv
$4,300 ze ruuzkzferc uvsk wfi vmvip dre, nfdre, tyzcu, reu srsp ze fli
erkzfe.

Kf rjjliv r jljkrzevu ivtfmvip, nv dljk tfekzelv xvkkzex ilernrp jgveuzex
leuvi tfekifc kf sizex kyfjv uvwztzkj ufne. Zw nv ufe'k, kyv ivtfmvip nzcc
sv kff jyfik, levdgcfpdvek nzcc ivdrze kff yzxy, reu nv nzcc cvrmv re
letfejtzferscv sliuve fw erkzferc uvsk wfi fli tyzcuive. Kyrk nv dljk efk
uf.

Cvk'j sv tcvri rsflk nyviv kyv uvwztzk gifscvd tfdvj wifd. Tfekirip kf kyv
uildsvrk nv'mv svve yvrizex wfi kyv crjk wvn dfekyj, kyv uvwztzkj nv wrtv
riv efk iffkvu ze uvwvejv jgveuzex. Krbve rj r gvitvekrxv fw kyv xifjj
erkzferc gifultk, fli uvwvejv jgveuzex yrggvej kf sv fecp rsflk wfli-wzwkyj
fw nyrk zk nrj ze 1970. Efi zj kyv uvwztzk, rj jfdv nflcu yrmv zk, iffkvu
ze kro tlkj. Vmve nzky fli kro tlkj, krovj rj r wirtkzfe fw xifjj erkzferc
gifultk ivdrze rsflk kyv jrdv rj kyvp nviv ze 1970. Kyv wrtk zj, fli
uvwztzkj tfdv wifd kyv letfekifccvu xifnky fw kyv sluxvk wfi ufdvjkzt
jgveuzex.

Ulizex kyv 1970'j, kyv jyriv fw fli erkzferc zetfdv uvmfkvu kf kyzj
ufdvjkzt jgveuzex zetivrjvu sp dfiv kyre 60 gvitvek, wifd 10 tvekj flk fw
vmvip ufccri gifultvu sp kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv kf 16 tvekj. Ze jgzkv fw rcc
fli vtfefdzvj reu vwwztzvetzvj, reu nzkyflk ruuzex rep evn gifxirdj, srjzt,
evtvjjrip ufdvjkzt jgveuzex gifmzuvu wfi ze kyzj pvri'j sluxvk nzcc xifn kf
rcdfjk r kizcczfe ufccrij fmvi kyv evok 5 pvrij.

Kyv uvwztzk gifscvd zj r tcvri reu givjvek urexvi kf kyv srjzt yvrcky fw
fli Ivglsczt. Nv evvu r gcre kf fmvitfdv kyzj urexvi--r gcre srjvu fe kyvjv
gizetzgcvj. Zk dljk sv szgrikzjre. Tfehlvizex kyv uvwztzkj reu glkkzex kyv
Xfmviedvek'j yfljv ze fiuvi nzcc ivhlziv kyv svjk vwwfik fw rcc fw lj. Zk
dljk sv wrzi. Aljk rj rcc nzcc jyriv ze kyv svevwzkj kyrk nzcc tfdv wifd
ivtfmvip, rcc nflcu jyriv wrzicp ze kyv sliuve fw kirejzkzfe. Zk dljk sv
giluvek. Kyv jkivexky fw fli erkzferc uvwvejv dljk sv ivjkfivu jf kyrk nv
tre glijlv gifjgvizkp reu gvrtv reu wivvufd nyzcv drzekrzezex fli
tfddzkdvek kf kyv kilcp evvup. Reu wzerccp, zk dljk sv ivrczjkzt. Nv tre'k
ivcp fe yfgv rcfev.

Nzky kyvjv xlzuzex gizetzgcvj ze dzeu, cvk dv flkczev r wfli-grik gcre kf
zetivrjv vtfefdzt xifnky reu ivultv uvwztzkj.

Wzijk, ze dp sluxvk dvjjrxv, Z nzcc ivtfddveu r Wvuvirc jgveuzex wivvqv. Z
befn kyzj zj jkifex dvuztzev, slk jf wri, nv yrmv fecp tlk kyv irkv fw
zetivrjv ze Wvuvirc jgveuzex. Kyv Xfmviedvek yrj tfekzelvu kf jgveu dfiv
dfevp vrty pvri, kyflxy efk rj dlty dfiv rj zk uzu ze kyv grjk. Krbve rj r
nyfcv, kyv sluxvk Z'd gifgfjzex wfi kyv wzjtrc pvri nzcc zetivrjv ef dfiv
kyre kyv irkv fw zewcrkzfe. Ze fkyvi nfiuj, kyv Wvuvirc Xfmviedvek nzcc
yfcu kyv czev fe ivrc jgveuzex. Efn, kyrk'j wri cvjj kyre drep Rdviztre
wrdzczvj yrmv yru kf uf ze kyvjv uzwwztlck kzdvj.

Z nzcc ivhlvjk kyrk kyv gifgfjvu 6-dfeky wivvqv ze tfjk-fw-czmzex
rualjkdvekj ivtfddveuvu sp kyv szgrikzjre Jftzrc Jvtlizkp Tfddzjjzfe sv
rggczvu kf fkyvi xfmviedvek-ivcrkvu ivkzivdvek gifxirdj. Z nzcc, rcjf,
gifgfjv r 1-pvri wivvqv fe r sifru irexv fw ufdvjkzt jgveuzex gifxirdj, reu
wfi Wvuvirc tzmzczre reu dzczkrip grp reu gvejzfe gifxirdj. Reu cvk dv jrp
izxyk yviv, Z'd jfiip, nzky ivxriu kf kyv dzczkrip, ze rjbzex kyrk fw kyvd,
svtrljv wfi jf drep pvrij kyvp yrmv svve jf wri svyzeu reu jf cfn ze ivnriu
wfi nyrk kyv dve reu nfdve ze lezwfid riv ufzex. Slk Z'd jliv kyvp nzcc
leuvijkreu kyrk kyzj dljk sv rtifjj kyv sfriu reu wrzi.

Jvtfeu, Z nzcc rjb kyv Tfexivjj kf rufgk jgvtzwzt dvrjlivj kf tfekifc kyv
xifnky fw kyv jf-trccvu letfekifccrscv jgveuzex gifxirdj. Kyvjv riv kyv
rlkfdrkzt jgveuzex gifxirdj, jlty rj wffu jkrdgj, kyrk treefk sv jzdgcp
wifqve reu kyrk yrmv xifne sp fmvi 400 gvitvek jzetv 1970. Kyvp riv kyv
crixvjk jzexcv trljv fw kyv slzck-ze fi jkiltklirc uvwztzk gifscvd. Fli
jkreuriu yviv nzcc sv wrzievjj, vejlizex kyrk kyv krogrpvij' yriu-vrievu
ufccrij xf fecp kf kyv kilcp evvup; kyrk efev fw kyvd riv klievu rnrp, slk
kyrk wirlu reu nrjkv riv jkrdgvu flk. Reu Z'd jfiip kf jrp, kyviv'j r cfk
fw zk flk kyviv. Ze kyv wffu jkrdg gifxird rcfev, crjk pvri, nv zuvekzwzvu
rcdfjk $1.1 szcczfe ze fmvigrpdvekj. Kyv krogrpvij rive'k kyv fecp mztkzdj
fw kyzj bzeu fw rsljv. Kyv kilcp evvup jlwwvi rj wleuj zekveuvu wfi kyvd
riv krbve efk sp kyv evvup, slk sp kyv xivvup. Wfi vmvipfev'j jrbv, nv dljk
glk re veu kf jlty nrjkv reu tfiilgkzfe.

Kyziu, Z nzcc rualjk fli gifxird kf ivjkfiv Rdviztr'j uvwvejvj sp gifgfjzex
$55 szcczfe ze uvwvejv jrmzexj fmvi kyv evok 5 pvrij. Kyvjv riv jrmzexj
ivtfddveuvu kf dv sp kyv Jvtivkrip fw Uvwvejv, nyf yrj rjjlivu dv kyvp tre
sv jrwvcp rtyzvmvu reu nzcc efk uzdzezjy fli rszczkp kf evxfkzrkv ridj
ivultkzfej fi veurexvi Rdviztr'j jvtlizkp. Nv nzcc efk xrdscv nzky fli
erkzferc jlimzmrc.

Reu wfliky, svtrljv nv dljk vejliv ivultkzfe reu vmveklrc vczdzerkzfe fw
uvwztzkj fmvi kyv evok jvmvirc pvrij, Z nzcc gifgfjv r jkreusp kro, czdzkvu
kf ef dfiv kyre 1 gvitvek fw kyv xifjj erkzferc gifultk, kf jkrik ze wzjtrc
1986. Zk nflcu crjk ef dfiv kyre 3 pvrij, reu zk nflcu jkrik fecp zw kyv
Tfexivjj yrj wzijk rggifmvu fli jgveuzex wivvqv reu sluxvk tfekifc gifxird.
Reu kyviv riv jvmvirc fkyvi tfeuzkzfej rcjf kyrk dljk sv dvk, rcc fw kyvd
ze fiuvi wfi kyzj gifxird kf sv kizxxvivu.

Efn, pfl tflcu jrp kyrk kyzj zj re zejliretv gfcztp wfi kyv wlkliv, r
ivdvup kyrk nzcc sv rk yreu zw evvuvu slk fecp ivjfikvu kf zw rsjfclkvcp
evtvjjrip. Ze kyv dvrekzdv, nv'cc tfekzelv kf jklup nrpj kf jzdgczwp kyv
kro tfuv reu drbv zk dfiv wrzi wfi rcc Rdviztrej. Kyzj zj r xfrc kyrk vmvip
Rdviztre nyf'j vmvi jkilxxcvu nzky r kro wfid tre leuvijkreu.

Rk kyv jrdv kzdv, yfnvmvi, Z nzcc fggfjv rep vwwfikj kf leuf kyv srjzt kro
ivwfidj kyrk nv'mv rcivrup vertkvu, zetcluzex kyv 10-gvitvek kro sivrb
tfdzex kf krogrpvij kyzj Alcp reu kyv kro zeuvozex nyzty nzcc gifkvtk rcc
Rdviztrej wifd zewcrkzferip sirtbvk tivvg ze kyv pvrij ryvru.

Efn, Z ivrczqv kyrk kyzj wfli-grik gcre zj vrjzvi kf uvjtizsv kyre zk nzcc
sv kf vertk. Slk kyv cffdzex uvwztzkj kyrk yrex fmvi lj reu fmvi Rdviztr'j
wlkliv dljk sv ivultvu. Kyv grky Z'mv flkczevu zj wrzi, srcretvu, reu
ivrczjkzt. Zw vertkvu, zk nzcc vejliv r jkvrup uvtczev ze uvwztzkj, rzdzex
kfnriu r srcretvu sluxvk sp kyv veu fw kyv uvtruv. Zk'j kyv fecp grky kyrk
nzcc cvru kf r jkifex, jljkrzevu ivtfmvip. Cvk lj wfccfn kyrk grky
kfxvkyvi.

Ef ufdvjkzt tyrccvexv zj dfiv tiltzrc kyre gifmzuzex jkrscv, gvidrevek afsj
wfi rcc Rdviztrej nyf nrek kf nfib. Kyv ivtfmvip gifxird nzcc gifmzuv afsj
wfi dfjk, slk fkyvij nzcc evvu jgvtzrc yvcg reu kirzezex wfi evn jbzccj.
Jyfikcp, Z nzcc jlsdzk kf kyv Tfexivjj kyv Vdgcfpdvek Rtk fw 1983, uvjzxevu
kf xvk rk kyv jgvtzrc gifscvdj fw kyv cfex-kvid levdgcfpvu, rj nvcc rj
pflex gvfgcv kipzex kf vekvi kyv afs dribvk. Z'cc gifgfjv vokveuzex
levdgcfpdvek svevwzkj, zetcluzex jgvtzrc zetvekzmvj kf vdgcfpvij nyf yziv
kyv cfex-kvid levdgcfpvu, gifmzuzex gifxirdj wfi uzjgcrtvu nfibvij, reu
yvcgzex wvuvirccp wleuvu reu Jkrkv-rudzezjkvivu levdgcfpdvek zejliretv
gifxirdj gifmzuv nfibvij nzky kirzezex reu ivcftrkzfe rjjzjkretv. Wzerccp,
fli gifgfjrc nzcc zetcluv evn zetvekzmvj wfi jlddvi pflky vdgcfpdvek kf
yvcg pflex gvfgcv xvk r jkrik ze kyv afs dribvk.

Nv dljk fwwvi sfky jyfik-kvid yvcg reu cfex-kvid yfgv wfi fli levdgcfpvu. Z
yfgv nv tre nfib kfxvkyvi fe kyzj. Z yfgv nv tre nfib kfxvkyvi rj nv uzu
crjk pvri ze vertkzex kyv creudrib Afs Kirzezex Grikevijyzg Rtk. Ivxlcrkfip
ivwfid cvxzjcrkzfe, r ivjgfejzscv tcvre rzi rtk, reu grjjrxv fw vekvigizjv
qfev cvxzjcrkzfe nzcc rcjf tivrkv evn zetvekzmvj wfi afsj reu fggfiklezkp.

Fev fw flk fw vmvip wzmv afsj ze fli tflekip uvgveuj fe kiruv. Jf, Z nzcc
gifgfjv r sifruvi jkirkvxp ze kyv wzvcu fw zekvierkzferc kiruv--fev kyrk
zetivrjvj kyv fgveevjj fw fli kiruzex jpjkvd reu zj wrzivi kf Rdviztr'j
wridvij reu nfibvij ze kyv nficu dribvkgcrtv. Nv dljk yrmv ruvhlrkv vogfik
wzeretzex kf jvcc Rdviztre gifultkj fmvijvrj. Z nzcc rjb wfi evn
evxfkzrkzex rlkyfizkp kf ivdfmv sriizvij reu kf xvk dfiv fw fli gifultkj
zekf wfivzxe dribvkj. Nv dljk jkivexkyve kyv fixrezqrkzfe fw fli kiruv
rxvetzvj reu drbv tyrexvj ze fli ufdvjkzt crnj reu zekvierkzferc kiruv
gfcztp kf gifdfkv wivv kiruv reu kyv zetivrjvu wcfn fw Rdviztre xffuj,
jvimztvj, reu zemvjkdvekj.

Fli kiruv gfjzkzfe tre rcjf sv zdgifmvu sp drbzex fli gfik jpjkvd dfiv
vwwztzvek. Svkkvi, dfiv rtkzmv yrisfij kirejcrkv zekf jkrscv afsj ze fli
tfrcwzvcuj, irzcifruj, kiltbzex zeuljkip, reu gfikj. Rwkvi 2 pvrij fw
uvsrkv, zk'j kzdv wfi lj kf xvk kfxvkyvi reu vertk r gfik dfuviezqrkzfe
szcc.

Vultrkzfe, kirzezex, reu ivkirzezex riv wleurdvekrc kf fli jlttvjj rj riv
ivjvrity reu uvmvcfgdvek reu gifultkzmzkp. Crsfi, drerxvdvek, reu
xfmviedvek rk rcc cvmvcj tre reu dljk grikztzgrkv ze zdgifmzex kyvjv kffcj
fw xifnky. Kro gfcztp, ivxlcrkfip girtkztvj, reu xfmviedvek gifxirdj rcc
evvu tfejkrek ivvmrclrkzfe ze kvidj fw fli tfdgvkzkzmvevjj. Vmvip Rdviztre
yrj r ifcv reu r jkrbv ze zekvierkzferc kiruv.

Nv Rdviztrej riv jkzcc kyv kvtyefcfxztrc cvruvij ze dfjk wzvcuj. Nv dljk
bvvg kyrk vuxv, reu kf uf jf nv evvu kf svxze ivevnzex kyv srjztj--jkrikzex
nzky fli vultrkzferc jpjkvd. Nyzcv nv xivn tfdgcrtvek, fkyvij yrmv rtkvu.
Argre, nzky r gfglcrkzfe fecp rsflk yrcw kyv jzqv fw flij, xirulrkvj wifd
zkj lezmvijzkzvj dfiv vexzevvij kyre nv uf. Zw r tyzcu ufvje'k ivtvzmv
ruvhlrkv drky reu jtzvetv kvrtyzex sp kyv rxv fw 16, yv fi jyv yrj cfjk kyv
tyretv kf sv r jtzvekzjk fi re vexzevvi. Nv dljk afze kfxvkyvi--grivekj,
kvrtyvij, xirjj iffkj xiflgj, fixrezqvu crsfi, reu kyv sljzevjj
tfddlezkp--kf ivmzkrczqv Rdviztre vultrkzfe sp jvkkzex r jkreuriu fw
votvccvetv.

Ze 1983 nv jvvb wfli drafi vultrkzfe xfrcj: r hlrczkp vultrkzfe zezkzrkzmv
kf vetflirxv r jlsjkrekzrc lgxiruzex fw drky reu jtzvetv zejkiltkzfe
kyiflxy scftb xirekj kf kyv Jkrkvj; vjkrsczjydvek fw vultrkzfe jrmzexj
rttflekj kyrk nzcc xzmv dzuucv reu cfnvi-zetfdv wrdzczvj re zetvekzmv kf
jrmv wfi kyvzi tyzcuive'j tfccvxv vultrkzfe reu, rk kyv jrdv kzdv,
vetflirxv r ivrc zetivrjv ze jrmzexj wfi vtfefdzt xifnky; grjjrxv fw
klzkzfe kro tivuzkj wfi grivekj nyf nrek kf jveu kyvzi tyzcuive kf gizmrkv
fi ivczxzfljcp rwwzczrkvu jtyffcj; r tfejkzklkzferc rdveudvek kf gvidzk
mfclekrip jtyffc girpvi. Xfu jyflcu evmvi yrmv svve vogvccvu wifd Rdviztr'j
tcrjjiffdj ze kyv wzijk gcrtv.

Fli tfddzkdvek kf wrzievjj dvrej kyrk nv dljk rjjliv cvxrc reu vtfefdzt
vhlzkp wfi nfdve, reu vczdzerkv, fetv reu wfi rcc, rcc kirtvj fw lealjk
uzjtizdzerkzfe rxrzejk nfdve wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj Tfuv. Nv nzcc efk
kfcvirkv nrxv uzjtizdzerkzfe srjvu fe jvo, reu nv zekveu kf jkivexkyve
vewfitvdvek fw tyzcu jlggfik crnj kf vejliv kyrk jzexcv grivekj, dfjk fw
nyfd riv nfdve, uf efk jlwwvi lewrzi wzeretzrc yriujyzg. Nv nzcc rcjf krbv
rtkzfe kf ivdvup zevhlzkzvj ze gvejzfej. Kyvjv zezkzrkzmvj nzcc sv afzevu
sp fkyvij kf tfekzelv fli vwwfikj kf gifdfkv vhlzkp wfi nfdve.

Rcjf ze kyv rivr fw wrzievjj reu vhlzkp, nv nzcc rjb wfi vokvejzfe fw kyv
Tzmzc Izxykj Tfddzjjzfe, nyzty zj ulv kf vogziv kyzj pvri. Kyv Tfddzjjzfe
zj re zdgfikrek grik fw kyv fexfzex jkilxxcv wfi aljkztv ze Rdviztr, reu nv
jkifexcp jlggfik zkj ivrlkyfizqrkzfe. Vwwvtkzmv vewfitvdvek fw fli erkzfe'j
wrzi yfljzex crnj zj rcjf vjjvekzrc kf vejlizex vhlrc fggfiklezkp. Ze kyv
pvri ryvru, nv'cc nfib kf jkivexkyve vewfitvdvek fw wrzi yfljzex crnj wfi
rcc Rdviztrej.

Kyv kzdv yrj rcjf tfdv wfi drafi ivwfid fw fli tizdzerc aljkztv jkrklkvj
reu rttvcvirkzfe fw kyv uizmv rxrzejk fixrezqvu tizdv reu uilx kirwwztbzex.
Zk'j yzxy kzdv kyrk nv drbv fli tzkzvj jrwv rxrze. Kyzj rudzezjkirkzfe
yvivsp uvtcrivj re rcc-flk nri fe szx-kzdv fixrezqvu tizdv reu kyv uilx
irtbvkvvij nyf riv gfzjfezex fli pflex gvfgcv. Nv nzcc rcjf zdgcvdvek
ivtfddveurkzfej fw fli Krjb Wfitv fe Mztkzdj fw Tizdv, nyzty nzcc ivgfik kf
dv kyzj nvvb.

Rdviztre rxiztlckliv, kyv vemp fw kyv nficu, yrj svtfdv kyv mztkzd fw zkj
fne jlttvjjvj. Nzky fev wridvi efn gifultzex veflxy wffu kf wvvu yzdjvcw
reu 77 fkyvi gvfgcv, Rdviztr zj tfewifekvu nzky ivtfiu jligclj tifgj reu
tfddfuzkp giztvj svcfn kyv tfjk fw gifultkzfe. Nv dljk jkizmv, kyiflxy
zeefmrkzfej czbv kyv grpdvek-ze-bzeu tifg jnrg rggifrty reu re rxxivjjzmv
vogfik gfcztp, kf ivjkfiv yvrcky reu mzkrczkp kf ilirc Rdviztr. Dvrenyzcv,
Z yrmv zejkiltkvu kyv Uvgrikdvek fw Rxiztlckliv kf nfib zeuzmzulrccp nzky
wridvij nzky uvsk gifscvdj kf yvcg kyvd kyiflxy kyvjv kflxy kzdvj.

Fmvi kyv grjk pvri, fli Krjb Wfitv fe Gizmrkv Jvtkfi Zezkzrkzmvj yrj
jlttvjjwlccp wfixvu r nfibzex grikevijyzg zemfcmzex cvruvij fw sljzevjj,
crsfi, vultrkzfe, reu xfmviedvek kf ruuivjj kyv kirzezex evvuj fw Rdviztre
nfibvij. Kyrebj kf kyv Krjb Wfitv, gizmrkv jvtkfi zezkzrkzmvj riv efn
leuvinrp ze rcc 50 Jkrkvj fw kyv Lezfe, reu kyfljreuj fw nfibzex gvfgcv
yrmv svve yvcgvu ze drbzex kyv jyzwk wifd uvru-veu afsj reu cfn-uvdreu
jbzccj kf kyv xifnky rivrj fw yzxy kvtyefcfxp reu kyv jvimztv vtfefdp.
Ruuzkzferccp, r drafi vwwfik nzcc sv wftljvu fe vetflirxzex kyv vogrejzfe
fw gizmrkv tfddlezkp tyzcu triv. Kyv evn rumzjfip tfletzc fe gizmrkv jvtkfi
zezkzrkzmvj nzcc triip fe reu vokveu kyzj mzkrc nfib fw vetflirxzex gizmrkv
zezkzrkzmv ze 1983.

Ze kyv tfdzex pvri, nv nzcc rcjf rtk kf zdgifmv kyv hlrczkp fw czwv wfi
Rdviztrej sp tliszex kyv jbpiftbvkzex tfjk fw yvrcky triv kyrk zj svtfdzex
re lesvrirscv wzeretzrc sliuve wfi jf drep. Reu nv nzcc jlsdzk cvxzjcrkzfe
kf gifmzuv trkrjkifgyzt zccevjj zejliretv tfmvirxv wfi fcuvi Rdviztrej.

Z nzcc rcjf jyfikcp jlsdzk r tfdgivyvejzmv wvuvirczjd gifgfjrc kyrk nzcc
tfekzelv fli vwwfikj kf ivjkfiv kf Jkrkvj reu cftrc xfmviedvekj kyvzi ifcvj
rj uperdzt crsfirkfizvj fw tyrexv ze r tivrkzmv jftzvkp.

Ulizex kyv evok jvmvirc nvvbj, Z nzcc jveu kf kyv Tfexivjj r jvizvj fw
uvkrzcvu gifgfjrcj fe kyvjv reu fkyvi kfgztj reu cffb wfinriu kf nfibzex
nzky pfl fe kyv uvmvcfgdvek fw kyvjv zezkzrkzmvj.

Jf wri, efn, Z'mv tfetvekirkvu drzecp fe kyv gifscvdj gfjvu sp kyv wlkliv.
Slk ze rcdfjk vmvip yfdv reu nfibgcrtv ze Rdviztr, nv'iv rcivrup nzkevjjzex
ivrjfe wfi xivrk yfgv--kyv wzijk wcfnvizex fw kyv dredruv dzirtcvj fw yzxy
kvtyefcfxp, r wzvcu gzfevvivu reu jkzcc cvu sp fli tflekip.

Kf drep fw lj efn, tfdglkvij, jzcztfe tyzgj, urkr giftvjjzex, tpsvievkztj,
reu rcc kyv fkyvi zeefmrkzfej fw kyv urnezex yzxy kvtyefcfxp rxv riv rj
dpjkzwpzex rj kyv nfibzexj fw kyv tfdsljkzfe vexzev dljk yrmv svve nyve
kyrk wzijk Dfuvc K irkkcvu ufne Drze Jkivvk, L.J.R. Slk rj jlivcp rj
Rdviztr'j gzfevvi jgzizk druv lj kyv zeuljkizrc xzrek fw kyv 20ky tveklip,
kyv jrdv gzfevvi jgzizk kfurp zj fgvezex lg fe refkyvi mrjk wifek fw
fggfiklezkp, kyv wifekzvi fw yzxy kvtyefcfxp.

Ze tfehlvizex kyv wifekzvi nv treefk nizkv fww fli kiruzkzferc zeuljkizvj,
slk nv dljk uvmvcfg kyv jbzccj reu zeuljkizvj kyrk nzcc drbv lj r gzfevvi
fw kfdfiifn. Kyzj rudzezjkirkzfe zj tfddzkkvu kf bvvgzex Rdviztr kyv
kvtyefcfxztrc cvruvi fw kyv nficu efn reu zekf kyv 21jk tveklip.

Slk cvk lj klie sizvwcp kf kyv zekvierkzferc river. Rdviztr'j cvruvijyzg ze
kyv nficu trdv kf lj svtrljv fw fli fne jkivexky reu svtrljv fw kyv mrclvj
nyzty xlzuv lj rj r jftzvkp: wivv vcvtkzfej, r wivv givjj, wivvufd fw
ivczxzflj tyfztv, wivv kiruv lezfej, reu rsfmv rcc, wivvufd wfi kyv
zeuzmzulrc reu ivavtkzfe fw kyv riszkirip gfnvi fw kyv jkrkv. Kyvjv mrclvj
riv kyv svuiftb fw fli jkivexky. Kyvp lezkv lj ze r jkvnriujyzg fw gvrtv
reu wivvufd nzky fli rcczvj reu wizveuj ze ERKF, ze Rjzr, ze Crkze Rdviztr,
reu vcjvnyviv. Kyvp riv rcjf kyv mrclvj nyzty ze kyv ivtvek grjk jfdv rdfex
lj yru svxle kf uflsk reu mzvn nzky r tpeztrc vpv.

Wfiklerkvcp, nv reu fli rcczvj yrmv ivuzjtfmvivu kyv jkivexky fw fli tfddfe
uvdftirkzt mrclvj, reu nv'iv rggcpzex kyvd rj r tfievijkfev fw r
tfdgivyvejzmv jkirkvxp wfi gvrtv nzky wivvufd. Ze Cfeufe crjk pvri, Z
reefletvu kyv tfddzkdvek fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf uvmvcfgzex kyv
zewirjkiltkliv fw uvdftirtp kyiflxyflk kyv nficu. Nv zekveu kf glijlv kyzj
uvdftirkzt zezkzrkzmv mzxfifljcp. Kyv wlkliv svcfexj efk kf xfmviedvekj reu
zuvfcfxzvj nyzty fggivjj kyvzi gvfgcvj, slk kf uvdftirkzt jpjkvdj fw
jvcw-xfmviedvek nyzty vetflirxv zeuzmzulrc zezkzrkzmv reu xlrirekvv
gvijferc wivvufd.

Slk fli jkirkvxp wfi gvrtv nzky wivvufd dljk rcjf sv srjvu fe
jkivexky--vtfefdzt jkivexky reu dzczkrip jkivexky. R jkifex Rdviztre
vtfefdp zj vjjvekzrc kf kyv nvcc-svzex reu jvtlizkp fw fli wizveuj reu
rcczvj. Kyv ivjkfirkzfe fw r jkifex, yvrckyp Rdviztre vtfefdp yrj svve reu
ivdrzej fev fw kyv tvekirc gzccrij fw fli wfivzxe gfcztp. Kyv gifxivjj Z'mv
svve rscv kf ivgfik kf pfl kfezxyk nzcc, Z befn, sv rj nridcp nvctfdvu sp
kyv ivjk fw kyv nficu rj zk zj sp kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv.

Nv dljk rcjf ivtfxezqv kyrk fli fne vtfefdzt nvcc-svzex zj zevokiztrscp
czebvu kf kyv nficu vtfefdp. Nv vogfik fmvi 20 gvitvek fw fli zeuljkizrc
gifultkzfe, reu 40 gvitvek fw fli wridcreu gifultvj wfi vogfik. Nv nzcc
tfekzelv kf nfib tcfjvcp nzky kyv zeuljkizrczqvu uvdftirtzvj fw Vlifgv reu
Argre reu nzky kyv Zekvierkzferc Dfevkrip Wleu kf vejliv zk yrj ruvhlrkv
ivjflitvj kf yvcg sizex kyv nficu vtfefdp srtb kf jkifex, efezewcrkzferip
xifnky.

Rj kyv cvruvi fw kyv Nvjk reu rj r tflekip kyrk yrj svtfdv xivrk reu izty
svtrljv fw vtfefdzt wivvufd, Rdviztr dljk sv re leivcvekzex rumftrkv fw
wivv kiruv. Rj jfdv erkzfej riv kvdgkvu kf klie kf gifkvtkzfezjd, fli
jkirkvxp treefk sv kf wfccfn kyvd, slk kf cvru kyv nrp kfnriu wivvi kiruv.
Kf kyzj veu, ze Drp fw kyzj pvri Rdviztr nzcc yfjk re vtfefdzt jlddzk
dvvkzex ze Nzcczrdjslix, Mzixzezr.

Rj nv svxze fli kyziu pvri, nv yrmv glk ze gcrtv r uvwvejv gifxird kyrk
ivuvvdj kyv evxcvtk fw kyv grjk uvtruv. Nv yrmv uvmvcfgvu r ivrczjkzt
dzczkrip jkirkvxp kf uvkvi kyivrkj kf gvrtv reu kf gifkvtk wivvufd zw
uvkviivetv wrzcj. Fli Ridvu Wfitvj riv wzerccp gifgvicp grzu; rwkvi pvrij
fw evxcvtk riv nvcc kirzevu reu svtfdzex svkkvi vhlzggvu reu jlggczvu. Reu
kyv Rdviztre lezwfid zj fetv rxrze nfie nzky gizuv. Dfjk fw kyv drafi
jpjkvdj evvuvu wfi dfuviezqzex fli uvwvejvj riv rcivrup leuvinrp, reu nv
nzcc sv ruuivjjzex fev bvp jpjkvd, kyv DO dzjjzcv, ze tfejlckrkzfe nzky kyv
Tfexivjj ze r wvn dfekyj.

Rdviztr'j wfivzxe gfcztp zj fetv rxrze srjvu fe szgrikzjrejyzg, fe ivrczjd,
jkivexky, wlcc grikevijyzg, ze tfejlckrkzfe nzky fli rcczvj, reu
tfejkiltkzmv evxfkzrkzfe nzky gfkvekzrc rumvijrizvj. Wifd kyv Dzuucv Vrjk
kf jflkyvie Rwiztr kf Xvevmr, Rdviztre uzgcfdrkj riv krbzex kyv zezkzrkzmv
kf drbv gvrtv reu cfnvi ridj cvmvcj. Nv jyflcu sv giflu fw fli ifcv rj
gvrtvdrbvij.

Ze kyv Dzuucv Vrjk crjk pvri, kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj gcrpvu kyv drafi ifcv ze
veuzex kyv kirxzt wzxykzex ze Cvsrefe reu evxfkzrkvu kyv nzkyuirnrc fw kyv
GCF wifd Svzilk.

Crjk Jvgkvdsvi, Z flkczevu gizetzgcvj kf triip fe kyv gvrtv giftvjj svxle
jf gifdzjzexcp rk Trdg Urmzu. Rcc kyv gvfgcv fw kyv Dzuucv Vrjk jyflcu befn
kyrk ze kyv pvri ryvru nv nzcc efk wcrx ze fli vwwfikj kf slzcu fe kyrk
wfleurkzfe kf sizex kyvd kyv scvjjzexj fw gvrtv.

Ze Tvekirc Rdviztr reu kyv Trizssvre Srjze, nv riv czbvnzjv vexrxvu ze r
grikevijyzg wfi gvrtv, gifjgvizkp, reu uvdftirtp. Wzerc grjjrxv fw kyv
ivdrzezex gfikzfej fw fli Trizssvre Srjze Zezkzrkzmv, nyzty grjjvu kyv
Yfljv crjk pvri, zj fev fw kyzj rudzezjkirkzfe'j kfg cvxzjcrkzmv gizfizkzvj
wfi 1983.

Kyv jvtlizkp reu vtfefdzt rjjzjkretv gfcztzvj fw kyzj rudzezjkirkzfe ze
Crkze Rdviztr reu vcjvnyviv riv srjvu fe ivrczjd reu ivgivjvek r tizkztrc
zemvjkdvek ze kyv wlkliv fw kyv yldre irtv. Kyzj leuvikrbzex zj r afzek
ivjgfejzszczkp fw kyv vovtlkzmv reu cvxzjcrkzmv siretyvj, reu Z'd tflekzex
fe kyv tffgvirkzfe reu jkrkvjdrejyzg fw kyv Tfexivjj kf yvcg lj dvvk kyzj
vjjvekzrc wfivzxe gfcztp xfrc.

Rk kyv yvrik fw fli jkirkvxp wfi gvrtv zj fli ivcrkzfejyzg nzky kyv Jfmzvk
Lezfe. Kyv grjk pvri jrn r tyrexv ze Jfmzvk cvruvijyzg. Nv'iv givgrivu wfi
r gfjzkzmv tyrexv ze Jfmzvk-Rdviztre ivcrkzfej. Slk kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe dljk
jyfn sp uvvuj rj nvcc rj nfiuj r jzetviv tfddzkdvek kf ivjgvtk kyv izxykj
reu jfmvivzxekp fw kyv wrdzcp fw erkzfej. Ivjgfejzscv dvdsvij fw kyv nficu
tfddlezkp uf efk kyivrkve fi zemruv kyvzi evzxysfij. Reu kyvp ivjkirze
kyvzi rcczvj wifd rxxivjjzfe.

Wfi fli grik, nv'iv mzxfifljcp glijlzex ridj ivultkzfe evxfkzrkzfej nzky
kyv Jfmzvk Lezfe. Jlggfikvu sp fli rcczvj, nv'mv glk wfinriu uirwk
rxivvdvekj gifgfjzex jzxezwztrek nvrgfe ivultkzfej kf vhlrc reu mvizwzrscv
cfnvi cvmvcj. Nv zejzjk fe re vhlrc srcretv fw wfitvj. Reu xzmve kyv
fmvinyvcdzex vmzuvetv fw Jfmzvk mzfcrkzfej fw zekvierkzferc kivrkzvj
tfetviezex tyvdztrc reu szfcfxztrc nvrgfej, nv rcjf zejzjk kyrk rep
rxivvdvek nv jzxe tre reu nzcc sv mvizwzrscv.

Ze kyv trjv fw zekvidvuzrkv-irexv eltcvri wfitvj, nv yrmv gifgfjvu kyv
tfdgcvkv vczdzerkzfe fw kyv vekziv tcrjj fw creu-srjvu dzjjzcvj. Nv'iv rcjf
givgrivu kf trivwlccp vogcfiv jvizflj Jfmzvk gifgfjrcj. Rk kyv jrdv kzdv,
cvk dv vdgyrjzqv kyrk rcczvu jkvruwrjkevjj ivdrzej r bvp kf rtyzvmzex ridj
ivultkzfej.

Nzky wzidevjj reu uvuztrkzfe, nv'cc tfekzelv kf evxfkzrkv. Uvvg ufne, kyv
Jfmzvkj dljk befn zk'j ze kyvzi zekvivjk rj nvcc rj flij kf givmvek r
nrjkvwlc ridj irtv. Reu fetv kyvp ivtfxezqv fli lejyrbrscv ivjfcmv kf
drzekrze ruvhlrkv uvkviivetv, kyvp nzcc yrmv vmvip ivrjfe kf afze lj ze kyv
jvrity wfi xivrkvi jvtlizkp reu drafi ridj ivultkzfej. Nyve kyrk dfdvek
tfdvj--reu Z'd tfewzuvek kyrk zk nzcc--nv nzcc yrmv krbve re zdgfikrek jkvg
kfnriu r dfiv gvrtvwlc wlkliv wfi rcc kyv nficu'j gvfgcv.

R mvip nzjv dre, Svieriu Srilty, fetv jrzu kyrk Rdviztr yrj evmvi wfixfkkve
kyv efscvi kyzexj kyrk siflxyk yvi zekf svzex reu kyrk czxyk yvi grky. Fli
tflekip zj r jgvtzrc gcrtv, svtrljv nv Rdviztrej yrmv rcnrpj svve
jljkrzevu, kyiflxy xffu kzdvj reu sru, sp r efscv mzjzfe--r mzjzfe efk fecp
fw nyrk kyv nficu rifleu lj zj kfurp slk nyrk nv rj r wivv gvfgcv tre drbv
zk sv kfdfiifn.

Nv'iv ivrczjkj; nv jfcmv fli gifscvdj zejkvru fw zxefizex kyvd, ef drkkvi
yfn cflu kyv tyfilj fw uvjgrzi rifleu lj. Slk nv'iv rcjf zuvrczjkj, wfi zk
nrj re zuvrc kyrk siflxyk fli retvjkfij kf kyvjv jyfivj wifd vmvip tfievi
fw kyv nficu.

Izxyk efn nv evvu sfky ivrczjd reu zuvrczjd. Dzcczfej fw fli evzxysfij riv
nzkyflk nfib. Zk zj lg kf lj kf jvv kyvp rive'k nzkyflk yfgv. Kyzj zj r
krjb wfi rcc fw lj. Reu drp Z jrp, Rdviztrej yrmv ircczvu kf kyzj trljv,
gifmzex fetv rxrze kyrk nv riv kyv dfjk xveviflj gvfgcv fe Vriky.

Nv nyf riv ze xfmviedvek dljk krbv kyv cvru ze ivjkfizex kyv vtfefdp. Reu
yviv rcc kyrk kzdv, Z kyflxyk pfl nviv ivruzex kyv grgvi.

Kyv jzexcv kyzex--kyv jzexcv kyzex kyrk tre jkrik kyv nyvvcj fw zeuljkip
kliezex rxrze zj wlikyvi ivultkzfe fw zekvivjk irkvj. Aljk refkyvi 1 fi 2
gfzekj tre dvre kvej fw kyfljreuj fw afsj.

Izxyk efn, nzky zewcrkzfe rj cfn rj zk zj, 3.9 gvitvek, kyviv zj iffd wfi
zekvivjk irkvj kf tfdv ufne. Fecp wvri givmvekj kyvzi ivultkzfe. R cveuvi,
rj nv befn, dljk tyrixv re zekvivjk irkv kyrk ivtfmvij kyv uvgivtzrkvu
mrclv fw kyv ufccrij cfrevu. Reu kyrk uvgivtzrkzfe zj, fw tflijv, kyv
rdflek fw zewcrkzfe. Kfurp, zekvivjk irkvj riv srjvu fe wvri--wvri kyrk
xfmviedvek nzcc ivjfik kf dvrjlivj, rj zk yrj ze kyv grjk, kyrk nzcc jveu
zewcrkzfe qffdzex rxrze.

Nv nyf jvimv yviv ze kyzj Trgzkrc dljk virjv kyrk wvri sp drbzex zk
rsjfclkvcp tcvri kyrk nv nzcc efk jkfg wzxykzex zewcrkzfe; kyrk, kfxvkyvi,
nv nzcc uf fecp kyfjv kyzexj kyrk nzcc cvru kf crjkzex vtfefdzt xifnky.

Pvj, kyv gifscvdj tfewifekzex lj riv crixv reu wfiszuuzex. Reu, tvikrzecp,
ef fev tre fi jyflcu dzezdzqv kyv gczxyk fw dzcczfej fw fli wizveuj reu
evzxysfij nyf riv czmzex ze kyv scvrb vdgkzevjj fw levdgcfpdvek. Slk nv
dljk reu tre xzmv kyvd xffu ivrjfe kf sv yfgvwlc.

Srtb fmvi kyv pvrij, tzkzqvej czbv flijvcmvj yrmv xrkyvivu nzkyze kyvjv
nrccj nyve fli erkzfe nrj kyivrkvevu; jfdvkzdvj nyve zkj mvip vozjkvetv nrj
rk jkrbv. Rcnrpj nzky tflirxv reu tfddfe jvejv, kyvp dvk kyv tizjvj fw
kyvzi kzdv reu czmvu kf jvv r jkifexvi, svkkvi, reu dfiv gifjgviflj
tflekip. Kyv givjvek jzklrkzfe zj ef nfijv reu, ze wrtk, zj efk rj sru rj
jfdv fw kyfjv kyvp wrtvu. Kzdv reu rxrze, kyvp gifmvu kyrk kyviv zj efkyzex
nv Rdviztrej treefk rtyzvmv rj wivv dve reu nfdve.

Pvj, nv jkzcc yrmv gifscvdj--gcvekp fw kyvd. Slk zk'j aljk gcrze
nifex--lealjk kf fli tflekip reu lealjk kf fli gvfgcv--kf cvk kyfjv
gifscvdj jkreu ze kyv nrp fw kyv dfjk zdgfikrek kilky fw rcc: Rdviztr zj fe
kyv dveu.

Nv fnv zk kf kyv lewfiklerkv kf sv rnriv fw kyvzi gczxyk reu kf yvcg kyvd
ze vmvip nrp nv tre. Ef fev tre hlriivc nzky kyrk. Nv dljk reu uf yrmv
tfdgrjjzfe wfi rcc kyv mztkzdj fw kyzj vtfefdzt tizjzj. Slk kyv szx jkfip
rsflk Rdviztr kfurp zj kyv nrp kyrk dzcczfej fw tfewzuvek, trizex
gvfgcv--kyfjv vokirfiuzerip "fiuzerip" Rdviztrej nyf evmvi drbv kyv
yvruczevj reu nzcc evmvi sv zekvimzvnvu--riv crpzex kyv wfleurkzfe, efk
aljk wfi ivtfmvip wifd fli givjvek gifscvdj slk wfi r svkkvi kfdfiifn wfi
rcc fli gvfgcv.

Wifd tfrjk kf tfrjk, fe kyv afs reu ze tcrjjiffdj reu crsfirkfizvj, rk evn
tfejkiltkzfe jzkvj reu ze tylityvj reu tfddlezkp xiflgj, evzxysfij riv
yvcgzex evzxysfij. Reu kyvp'mv rcivrup svxle kyv slzcuzex, kyv ivjvrity,
kyv nfib, reu kyv xzmzex kyrk nzcc drbv fli tflekip xivrk rxrze.

Z svczvmv kyzj, svtrljv Z svczvmv ze kyvd--ze kyv jkivexky fw kyvzi yvrikj
reu dzeuj, ze kyv tfddzkdvek kyrk vrty fev fw kyvd sizexj kf kyvzi urzcp
czmvj, sv kyvp yzxy fi yldscv. Kyv tyrccvexv wfi lj ze xfmviedvek zj kf sv
nfikyp fw kyvd--kf drbv xfmviedvek r yvcg, efk r yzeuiretv kf fli gvfgcv ze
kyv tyrccvexzex slk gifdzjzex urpj ryvru.

Zw nv uf kyrk, zw nv triv nyrk fli tyzcuive reu fli tyzcuive'j tyzcuive
nzcc jrp fw lj, zw nv nrek kyvd fev urp kf sv kyrebwlc wfi nyrk nv uzu yviv
ze kyvjv kvdgcvj fw wivvufd, nv nzcc nfib kfxvkyvi kf drbv Rdviztr svkkvi
wfi fli yrmzex svve yviv--efk aljk ze kyzj pvri fi kyzj uvtruv slk ze kyv
evok tveklip reu svpfeu.

Kyreb pfl, reu Xfu scvjj pfl.

EFKV: Kyv Givjzuvek jgfbv rk 9:03 g.d. ze kyv Yfljv Tyrdsvi fw kyv Trgzkfc.
Yv nrj zekifultvu sp Kyfdrj G. F'Evzcc, Ai., Jgvrbvi fw kyv Yfljv fw
Ivgivjvekrkzmvj. Kyv ruuivjj nrj sifrutrjk czmv fe erkzfenzuv iruzf
reu kvcvmzjzfe.