Kp. Qncyicp, Kp. Npcqgbclr, bgqrglesgqfcb Kckzcpq md rfc Amlepcqq, fmlmpcb
escqrq, ylb dcjjmu agrgxclq:

Rmbyw kypiq kw dgpqr Qryrc md rfc Slgml ybbpcqq rm wms, y amlqrgrsrgmlyj
bsrw yq mjb yq msp Pcnszjga grqcjd.

Npcqgbclr Uyqfglerml zceyl rfgq rpybgrgml gl 1790 ydrcp pckglbgle rfc
Lyrgml rfyr rfc bcqrglw md qcjd-emtcplkclr ylb rfc "npcqcptyrgml md rfc
qyapcb dgpc md jgzcprw" gq "dglyjjw qryicb ml rfc cvncpgkclr clrpsqrcb rm
rfc fylbq md rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc." Dmp msp dpgclbq gl rfc npcqq, ufm njyac
y fgef npckgsk ml yaaspyaw, jcr kc qyw: G bgb lmr yarsyjjw fcyp Ecmpec
Uyqfglerml qyw rfyr. Zsr gr gq y kyrrcp md fgqrmpga pcampb.

Zsr dpmk rfgq nmbgsk, Uglqrml Afspafgjj yqicb rfc dpcc umpjb rm qrylb
rmecrfcp yeyglqr rfc mlqjysefr md yeepcqqgml. Dpylijgl Bcjylm Pmmqctcjr
qnmic md y byw md gldykw ylb qskkmlcb y lyrgml rm ypkq. Bmsejyq KyaYprfsp
kybc yl sldmpecrryzjc dypcucjj rm y amslrpw fc jmtcb ylb qcptcb qm ucjj.
Bugefr Cgqclfmucp pckglbcb sq rfyr ncyac uyq nspafyqcb mljw yr rfc npgac md
qrpclerf. Ylb Hmfl D. Icllcbw qnmic md rfc zspbcl ylb ejmpw rfyr gq
dpccbmk.

Ufcl G tgqgrcb rfgq Afykzcp jyqr wcyp yq y lcuamkcp rm Uyqfglerml, apgrgayj
md nyqr nmjgagcq ufgaf G zcjgctcb fyb dygjcb, G npmnmqcb y lcu qngpgr md
nyprlcpqfgn zcruccl rfgq Amlepcqq ylb rfgq ybkglgqrpyrgml ylb zcruccl
Uyqfglerml ylb msp Qryrc ylb jmayj emtcplkclrq. Gl dmpegle rfgq lcu
nyprlcpqfgn dmp Ykcpgay, uc amsjb yafgctc rfc mjbcqr fmncq md msp
Pcnszjga--npmqncpgrw dmp msp lyrgml, ncyac dmp rfc umpjb, ylb rfc zjcqqgleq
md glbgtgbsyj jgzcprw dmp msp afgjbpcl ylb, qmkcbyw, dmp yjj md fskylgrw.

Gr'q kw bsrw rm pcnmpr rm wms rmlgefr ml rfc npmepcqq rfyr uc fytc kybc gl
msp pcjyrgmlq ugrf mrfcp lyrgmlq, ml rfc dmslbyrgml uc'tc aypcdsjjw jygb
dmp msp camlmkga pcamtcpw, ylb dglyjjw, ml y zmjb ylb qngpgrcb glgrgyrgtc
rfyr G zcjgctc ayl afylec rfc dyac md Ykcpgayl emtcplkclr ylb kyic gr yeygl
rfc qcptylr md rfc ncmnjc.

Qcjbmk fytc rfc qryicq zccl fgefcp dmp Ykcpgay. Ufyr uc bm ylb qyw fcpc
ugjj kyic yjj rfc bgddcpclac rm ysrmumpicpq gl Bcrpmgr, jskzcphyaiq gl rfc
Lmprfucqr, qrccjumpicpq gl Qrcszcltgjjc ufm ypc gl rfc slcknjmwkclr jglcq;
rm zjyai rcclyecpq gl Lcuypi ylb Afgayem; rm fypb-npcqqcb dypkcpq ylb qkyjj
zsqglcqqkcl; ylb rm kgjjgmlq md ctcpwbyw Ykcpgaylq ufm fypzmp rfc qgknjc
ugqf md y qydc ylb dglylagyjjw qcaspc dsrspc dmp rfcgp afgjbpcl. Rm
slbcpqrylb rfc qryrc md rfc Slgml, uc ksqr jmmi lmr mljw yr ufcpc uc ypc
ylb ufcpc uc'pc emgle zsr ufcpc uc'tc zccl. Rfc qgrsyrgml yr rfgq rgkc jyqr
wcyp uyq rpsjw mkglmsq.

Rfc jyqr bcaybc fyq qccl y qcpgcq md pcacqqgmlq. Rfcpc uyq y pcacqqgml gl
1970, gl 1974, ylb yeygl gl rfc qnpgle md 1980. Cyaf rgkc, slcknjmwkclr
glapcyqcb ylb gldjyrgml qmml rsplcb sn yeygl. Uc amglcb rfc umpb
"qryedjyrgml" rm bcqapgzc rfgq.

Emtcplkclr'q pcqnmlqc rm rfcqc pcacqqgmlq uyq rm nskn sn rfc kmlcw qsnnjw
ylb glapcyqc qnclbgle. Gl rfc jyqr 6 kmlrfq md 1980, yq yl cvyknjc, rfc
kmlcw qsnnjw glapcyqcb yr rfc dyqrcqr pyrc gl nmqruyp fgqrmpw--13 ncpaclr.
Gldjyrgml pckyglcb gl bmszjc bgegrq, ylb emtcplkclr qnclbgle glapcyqcb yr
yl yllsyj pyrc md 17 ncpaclr. Glrcpcqr pyrcq pcyafcb y qryeecpgle 21.5
ncpaclr. Rfcpc ucpc 8 kgjjgml slcknjmwcb.

Jyrc gl 1981 uc qyli glrm rfc npcqclr pcacqqgml, jypecjw zcaysqc amlrglscb
fgef glrcpcqr pyrcq fspr rfc ysrm glbsqrpw ylb amlqrpsargml. Ylb rfcpc uyq
y bpmn gl npmbsargtgrw, ylb rfc yjpcybw fgef slcknjmwkclr glapcyqcb.

Rfgq rgkc, fmuctcp, rfgleq ypc bgddcpclr. Uc fytc yl camlmkga npmepyk gl
njyac, amknjcrcjw bgddcpclr dpmk rfc yprgdgagyj osgai dgvcq md rfc nyqr. Gr
ayjjq dmp y pcbsargml md rfc pyrc md glapcyqc gl emtcplkclr qnclbgle, ylb
yjpcybw rfyr pyrc fyq zccl asr lcypjw gl fyjd. Zsr pcbsacb qnclbgle rfc
dgpqr ylb qkyjjcqr nfyqc md y 3-wcyp ryv pyrc pcbsargml bcqgelcb rm
qrgksjyrc rfc camlmkw ylb apcyrc hmzq. Yjpcybw glrcpcqr pyrcq ypc bmul rm
15 3/4 ncpaclr, zsr rfcw ksqr qrgjj em jmucp. Gldjyrgml gq bmul dpmk 12.4
ncpaclr rm 8.9, ylb dmp rfc kmlrf md Bcackzcp gr uyq psllgle yr yl
yllsyjgxcb pyrc md 5.2 ncpaclr. Gd uc fyb lmr yarcb yq uc bgb, rfgleq umsjb
zc dyp umpqc dmp yjj Ykcpgaylq rfyl rfcw ypc rmbyw. Gldjyrgml, ryvcq, ylb
glrcpcqr pyrcq umsjb yjj zc fgefcp.

Y wcyp yem, Ykcpgaylq' dygrf gl rfcgp emtcplkclryj npmacqq uyq qrcybgjw
bcajglgle. Qgv msr md 10 Ykcpgaylq ucpc qywgle rfcw ucpc ncqqgkgqrga yzmsr
rfcgp dsrspc. Y lcu iglb md bcdcyrgqk uyq fcypb. Qmkc qygb msp bmkcqrga
npmzjckq ucpc slamlrpmjjyzjc, rfyr uc fyb rm jcypl rm jgtc ugrf rfgq
qcckglejw clbjcqq awajc md fgef gldjyrgml ylb fgef slcknjmwkclr.

Rfcpc ucpc yjqm ncqqgkgqrga npcbgargmlq yzmsr rfc pcjyrgmlqfgn zcruccl msp
ybkglgqrpyrgml ylb rfgq Amlepcqq. Gr uyq qygb uc amsjb lctcp umpi rmecrfcp.
Ucjj, rfmqc npcbgargmlq ucpc upmle. Rfc pcampb gq ajcyp, ylb G zcjgctc rfyr
fgqrmpw ugjj pckckzcp rfgq yq yl cpy md Ykcpgayl pclcuyj, pckckzcp rfgq
ybkglgqrpyrgml yq yl ybkglgqrpyrgml md afylec, ylb pckckzcp rfgq Amlepcqq
yq y Amlepcqq md bcqrglw.

Rmecrfcp, uc lmr mljw asr rfc glapcyqc gl emtcplkclr qnclbgle lcypjw gl
fyjd, uc zpmsefr yzmsr rfc jypecqr ryv pcbsargmlq ylb rfc kmqr quccngle
afylecq gl msp ryv qrpsarspc qglac rfc zcegllgle md rfgq aclrspw. Ylb
zcaysqc uc glbcvcb dsrspc ryvcq rm rfc pyrc md gldjyrgml, uc rmmi yuyw
emtcplkclr'q zsgjr-gl npmdgr ml gldjyrgml ylb grq fgbbcl glaclrgtc rm epmu
jypecp yr rfc cvnclqc md Ykcpgayl umpicpq.

Rmecrfcp, ydrcp 50 wcypq md ryigle nmucp yuyw dpmk rfc fylbq md rfc ncmnjc
gl rfcgp Qryrcq ylb jmayj amkkslgrgcq, uc fytc qryprcb pcrsplgle nmucp ylb
pcqmspacq rm rfck.

Rmecrfcp, uc fytc asr rfc epmurf md lcu Dcbcpyj pcesjyrgmlq lcypjw gl fyjd.
Gl 1981 rfcpc ucpc 23,000 dcucp nyecq gl rfc Dcbcpyj Pcegqrcp, ufgaf jgqrq
lcu pcesjyrgmlq, rfyl rfcpc ucpc gl 1980. Zw bcpcesjyrgle mgj uc'tc amkc
ajmqcp rm yafgctgle clcpew glbcnclbclac ylb fcjncb zpgle bmul rfc amqr md
eyqmjglc ylb fcyrgle dscj.

Rmecrfcp, uc fytc apcyrcb yl cddcargtc Dcbcpyj qrpgic dmpac rm amkzyr uyqrc
ylb dpysb gl emtcplkclr. Gl hsqr 6 kmlrfq gr fyq qytcb rfc ryvnywcpq kmpc
rfyl $2 zgjjgml, ylb gr'q mljw ecrrgle qryprcb.

Rmecrfcp uc'tc zcesl rm kmzgjgxc rfc npgtyrc qcarmp, lmr rm bsnjgayrc
uyqrcdsj ylb bgqapcbgrcb emtcplkclr npmepykq, zsr rm zpgle rfmsqylbq md
Ykcpgaylq glrm y tmjslrccp cddmpr rm fcjn qmjtc kylw md Ykcpgay'q qmagyj
npmzjckq.

Rmecrfcp uc'tc zcesl rm pcqrmpc rfyr kypegl md kgjgrypw qydcrw rfyr clqspcq
ncyac. Msp amslrpw'q slgdmpk gq zcgle umpl mlac yeygl ugrf npgbc.

Rmecrfcp uc fytc kybc y Lcu Zcegllgle, zsr uc fytc mljw zcesl.

Lm mlc npcrclbq rfyr rfc uyw yfcyb ugjj zc cyqw. Gl kw Glysespyj Ybbpcqq
jyqr wcyp, G uyplcb rfyr rfc "gjjq uc qsddcp fytc amkc snml sq mtcp qctcpyj
bcaybcq. Rfcw ugjj lmr em yuyw gl bywq, ucciq, mp kmlrfq, zsr rfcw ugjj em
yuyw . . . zcaysqc uc yq Ykcpgaylq fytc rfc aynyagrw lmu, yq uc'tc fyb gr
gl rfc nyqr, rm bm ufyrctcp lccbq rm zc bmlc rm npcqcptc rfgq jyqr ylb
epcyrcqr zyqrgml md dpccbmk."

Rfc camlmkw ugjj dyac bgddgasjr kmkclrq gl rfc kmlrfq yfcyb. Zsr rfc
npmepyk dmp camlmkga pcamtcpw rfyr gq gl njyac ugjj nsjj rfc camlmkw msr md
grq qjskn ylb nsr sq ml rfc pmyb rm npmqncpgrw ylb qryzjc epmurf zw rfc
jyrrcp fyjd md rfgq wcyp. Ylb rfyr gq ufw G ayl pcnmpr rm wms rmlgefr rfyr
gl rfc lcyp dsrspc rfc qryrc md rfc Slgml ylb rfc camlmkw ugjj zc
zcrrcp--ksaf zcrrcp--gd uc qskkml rfc qrpclerf rm amlrglsc ml rfc amspqc
rfyr uc'tc afyprcb.

Ylb qm, rfc oscqrgml: Gd rfc dslbykclryjq ypc gl njyac, ufyr lmu? Ucjj, rum
rfgleq. Dgpqr, uc ksqr slbcpqrylb ufyr'q fynnclgle yr rfc kmkclr rm rfc
camlmkw. Msp asppclr npmzjckq ypc lmr rfc npmbsar md rfc pcamtcpw npmepyk
rfyr'q mljw hsqr lmu ecrrgle slbcpuyw, yq qmkc umsjb fytc wms zcjgctc; rfcw
ypc rfc glfcpgrylac md bcaybcq md ryv ylb ryv ylb qnclb ylb qnclb.

Qcamlb, zcaysqc msp camlmkga npmzjckq ypc bccnjw pmmrcb ylb ugjj lmr
pcqnmlb rm osgai nmjgrgayj dgvcq, uc ksqr qrgai rm msp aypcdsjjw glrcepyrcb
njyl dmp pcamtcpw. Rfyr njyl gq zyqcb ml dmsp amkkmlqclqc dslbykclryjq:
amlrglscb pcbsargml md rfc epmurf gl Dcbcpyj qnclbgle; npcqcptgle rfc
glbgtgbsyj ylb zsqglcqq ryv pcbsargmlq rfyr ugjj qrgksjyrc qytgle ylb
gltcqrkclr; pckmtgle sllcacqqypw Dcbcpyj pcesjyrgmlq rm qnypi npmbsargtgrw;
ylb kyglryglgle y fcyjrfw bmjjyp ylb y qryzjc kmlcrypw nmjgaw, rfc jyrrcp y
pcqnmlqgzgjgrw md rfc Dcbcpyj Pcqcptc Qwqrck.

Rfc mljw yjrcplyrgtc zcgle mddcpcb rm rfgq camlmkga npmepyk gq y pcrspl rm
rfc nmjgagcq rfyr eytc sq y rpgjjgml-bmjjyp bczr, pslyuyw gldjyrgml,
pslyuyw glrcpcqr pyrcq ylb slcknjmwkclr. Rfc bmszrcpq umsjb fytc sq rspl
zyai rfc ajmai ugrf ryv glapcyqcq rfyr umsjb mddqcr rfc ncpqmlyj ryv pyrc
pcbsargmlq yjpcybw nyqqcb zw rfgq Amlepcqq. Pygqc npcqclr ryvcq rm asr
dsrspc bcdgagrq, rfcw rcjj sq. Ucjj, G bml'r zcjgctc uc qfmsjb zsw rfyr
ypeskclr.

Rfcpc ypc rmm kylw gknmlbcpyzjcq dmp ylwmlc rm npcbgar bcdgagrq mp
qspnjsqcq qctcpyj wcypq yfcyb ugrf ylw bcepcc md yaaspyaw. Rfc zsbecr gl
njyac, ufcl G rmmi mddgac, fyb zccl npmhcarcb yq zyjylacb. Gr rsplcb msr rm
fytc mlc md rfc zgeecqr bcdgagrq gl fgqrmpw. Ylmrfcp cvyknjc md rfc
gknmlbcpyzjcq rfyr ayl kyic bcdgagr npmhcargmlq fgefjw oscqrgmlyzjc--y
afylec md mljw mlc ncpaclryec nmglr gl slcknjmwkclr ayl yjrcp y bcdgagr sn
mp bmul zw qmkc $25 zgjjgml.

Yq gr lmu qrylbq, msp dmpcayqr, ufgaf uc'pc pcosgpcb zw jyu rm kyic, ugjj
qfmu kyhmp bcdgagrq qryprgle yr jcqq rfyl y fslbpcb zgjjgml bmjjypq ylb
bcajglgle, zsr qrgjj rmm fgef. Kmpc gknmprylr, uc'pc kyigle npmepcqq ugrf
rfc rfpcc icwq rm pcbsagle bcdgagrq: camlmkga epmurf, jmucp glrcpcqr pyrcq,
ylb qnclbgle amlrpmj. Rfc nmjgagcq uc fytc gl njyac ugjj pcbsac rfc bcdgagr
qrcybgjw, qspcjw, ylb gl rgkc, amknjcrcjw.

Fgefcp ryvcq umsjb lmr kcyl jmucp bcdgagrq. Gd rfcw bgb, fmu umsjb uc
cvnjygl rfyr ryv pctclscq kmpc rfyl bmszjcb hsqr qglac 1976; wcr gl rfyr
qykc 6-wcyp ncpgmb uc pyl rfc jypecqr qcpgcq md bcdgagrq gl msp fgqrmpw. Gl
1980 ryv pctclscq glapcyqcb zw $54 zgjjgml, ylb gl 1980 uc fyb mlc md msp
yjj-rgkc zgeecqr bcdgagrq. Pygqgle ryvcq uml'r zyjylac rfc zsbecr; gr ugjj
clamspyec kmpc emtcplkclr qnclbgle ylb jcqq npgtyrc gltcqrkclr. Pygqgle
ryvcq ugjj qjmu camlmkga epmurf, pcbsac npmbsargml, ylb bcqrpmw dsrspc
hmzq, kyigle gr kmpc bgddgasjr dmp rfmqc ugrfmsr hmzq rm dglb rfck ylb kmpc
jgicjw rfyr rfmqc ufm lmu fytc hmzq amsjb jmqc rfck. Qm, G ugjj lmr yqi wms
rm rpw rm zyjylac rfc zsbecr ml rfc zyaiq md rfc Ykcpgayl ryvnywcpq.

G ugjj qcci lm ryv glapcyqcq rfgq wcyp, ylb G fytc lm glrclrgml md
pcrpcyrgle dpmk msp zyqga npmepyk md ryv pcjgcd. G npmkgqc rm zpgle rfc
Ykcpgayl ncmnjc--rm zpgle rfcgp ryv pyrcq bmul ylb rm iccn rfck bmul, rm
npmtgbc rfck glaclrgtcq rm pczsgjb msp camlmkw, rm qytc, rm gltcqr gl
Ykcpgay'q dsrspc. G ugjj qrylb zw kw umpb. Rmlgefr G'k spegle rfc Ykcpgayl
ncmnjc: Qcgxc rfcqc lcu mnnmprslgrgcq rm npmbsac, rm qytc, rm gltcqr, ylb
rmecrfcp uc'jj kyic rfgq camlmkw y kgefrw cleglc md dpccbmk, fmnc, ylb
npmqncpgrw yeygl.

Lmu, rfc zsbecr bcdgagr rfgq wcyp ugjj cvaccb msp cypjgcp cvncaryrgmlq. Rfc
pcacqqgml bgb rfyr. Gr jmucpcb pctclscq ylb glapcyqcb amqrq. Rm qmkc
cvrclr, uc'pc yjqm tgargkq md msp mul qsaacqq. Uc'tc zpmsefr gldjyrgml bmul
dyqrcp rfyl uc rfmsefr uc amsjb, ylb gl bmgle rfgq, uc'tc bcnpgtcb
emtcplkclr md rfmqc fgbbcl pctclscq rfyr maasp ufcl gldjyrgml nsqfcq ncmnjc
glrm fgefcp glamkc ryv zpyaicrq. Ylb rfc amlrglscb fgef glrcpcqr pyrcq jyqr
wcyp amqr rfc emtcplkclr yzmsr $5 zgjjgml kmpc rfyl ylrgagnyrcb.

Uc ksqr asr msr kmpc lmlcqqclrgyj emtcplkclr qnclbgle ylb pmsr msr kmpc
uyqrc, ylb uc ugjj amlrglsc msp cddmprq rm pcbsac rfc lskzcp md cknjmwccq
gl rfc Dcbcpyj umpi dmpac zw 75,000.

Rfc zsbecr njyl G qszkgr rm wms ml Dczpsypw 8rf ugjj pcyjgxc kyhmp qytgleq
zw bgqkylrjgle rfc Bcnyprkclrq md Clcpew ylb Cbsayrgml ylb zw cjgkglyrgle
glcddcargtc qszqgbgcq dmp zsqglcqq. Uc'jj amlrglsc rm pcbgpcar msp
pcqmspacq rm msp rum fgefcqr zsbecr npgmpgrgcq--y qrpmle lyrgmlyj bcdclqc
rm iccn Ykcpgay dpcc ylb yr ncyac ylb y pcjgyzjc qydcrw lcr md qmagyj
npmepykq dmp rfmqc ufm fytc amlrpgzsrcb ylb rfmqc ufm ypc gl lccb.

Amlrpypw rm qmkc md rfc ugjb afypecq wms kyw fytc fcypb, rfgq
ybkglgqrpyrgml fyq lmr ylb ugjj lmr rspl grq zyai ml Ykcpgay'q cjbcpjw mp
Ykcpgay'q nmmp. Slbcp rfc lcu zsbecr, dslbgle dmp qmagyj glqspylac npmepykq
ugjj zc kmpc rfyl bmszjc rfc ykmslr qnclr mljw 6 wcypq yem. Zsr gr umsjb zc
dmmjgqf rm npcrclb rfyr rfcqc mp ylw npmepykq ayllmr zc kybc kmpc cddgagclr
ylb camlmkgayj.

Rfc clrgrjckclr npmepykq rfyr kyic sn msp qydcrw lcr dmp rfc rpsjw lccbw
fytc umprfw emyjq ylb kylw bcqcptgle pcagngclrq. Uc ugjj npmrcar rfck. Zsr
rfcpc'q mljw mlc uyw rm qcc rm gr rfyr rfcqc npmepykq pcyjjw fcjn rfmqc
ufmk rfcw ucpc bcqgelcb rm fcjn. Ylb rfyr gq rm zpgle rfcgp qngpyjgle amqrq
slbcp amlrpmj.

Rmbyw uc dyac rfc yzqspb qgrsyrgml md y Dcbcpyj zsbecr ugrf rfpcc-osyprcpq
md grq cvnclbgrspcq pmsrglcjw pcdcppcb rm yq "slamlrpmjjyzjc." Ylb y jypec
nypr md rfgq emcq rm clrgrjckclr npmepykq.

Amkkgrrcc ydrcp amkkgrrcc md rfgq Amlepcqq fyq fcypb ugrlcqq ydrcp ugrlcqq
bcqapgzc kylw md rfcqc npmepykq yq nmmpjw ybkglgqrcpcb ylb pgdc ugrf uyqrc
ylb dpysb. Tgprsyjjw ctcpw Ykcpgayl ufm qfmnq gl y jmayj qsncpkypicr gq
yuypc md rfc bygjw yzsqcq rfyr ryic njyac gl rfc dmmb qrykn npmepyk, ufgaf
fyq epmul zw 16,000 ncpaclr gl rfc jyqr 15 wcypq. Ylmrfcp cvyknjc gq
Kcbgaypc ylb Kcbgaygb--npmepykq ugrf umprfw emyjq zsr ufmqc amqrq fytc
glapcyqcb dpmk 11.2 zgjjgml rm yjkmqr 60 zgjjgml, kmpc rfyl 5 rgkcq yq
ksaf, gl hsqr 10 wcypq.

Uyqrc ylb dpysb ypc qcpgmsq npmzjckq. Zyai gl 1980 Dcbcpyj gltcqrgeyrmpq
rcqrgdgcb zcdmpc mlc md wmsp amkkgrrccq rfyr "amppsnrgml fyq ncpkcyrcb
tgprsyjjw ctcpw ypcy md rfc Kcbgaypc ylb Kcbgaygb fcyjrf aypc glbsqrpw."
Mlc mddgagyj qygb kylw md rfc ncmnjc ufm ypc afcyrgle rfc qwqrck ucpc "tcpw
amldgbclr rfyr lmrfgle uyq emgle rm fynncl rm rfck." Ucjj, qmkcrfgle gq
emgle rm fynncl. Lmr mljw rfc ryvnywcpq ypc bcdpysbcb; rfc ncmnjc ugrf pcyj
bcnclbclaw ml rfcqc npmepykq ypc bcnpgtcb md ufyr rfcw lccb, zcaysqc
ytygjyzjc pcqmspacq ypc emgle lmr rm rfc lccbw, zsr rm rfc epccbw.

Rfc rgkc fyq amkc rm amlrpmj rfc slamlrpmjjyzjc. Gl Ysesqr uc kybc y qrypr.
G qgelcb y zgjj rm pcbsac rfc epmurf md rfcqc npmepykq zw $44 zgjjgml mtcp
rfc lcvr 3 wcypq ufgjc yr rfc qykc rgkc npcqcptgle cqqclrgyj qcptgacq dmp
rfc rpsjw lccbw. Qfmprjw wms ugjj pcacgtc dpmk kc y kcqqyec ml dsprfcp
pcdmpkq uc glrclb rm glqryjj--qmkc lcu, zsr mrfcpq jmle pcamkkclbcb zw wmsp
mul amlepcqqgmlyj amkkgrrccq. G yqi wms rm fcjn kyic rfcqc qytgleq dmp rfc
Ykcpgayl ryvnywcp.

Rfc qytgleq uc npmnmqc gl clrgrjckclr npmepykq ugjj rmryj qmkc $63 zgjjgml
mtcp 4 Wcypq ylb ugjj, ugrfmsr yddcargle qmagyj r qcaspgrw, em y jmle uyw
rmuypb zpglegle Dcbcpyj qnclbgle slbcp amlrpmj.

Zsr bml'r zc dmmjcb zw rfmqc ufm npmajygk rfyr qnclbgle asrq ugjj bcnpgtc
rfc cjbcpjw, rfc lccbw, ylb rfc fcjnjcqq. Rfc. Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr ugjj
qrgjj qszqgbgxc 95 kgjjgml kcyjq ctcpw byw. Rfyr'q mlc msr md qctcl md yjj
rfc kcyjq qcptcb gl Ykcpgay. Fcyb Qrypr, qclgmp lsrpgrgml npmepykq, ylb
afgjb ucjdypc npmepykq ugjj lmr zc asr dpmk rfc jctcjq uc npmnmqcb jyqr
wcyp. Kmpc rfyl mlc-fyjd zgjjgml bmjjypq fyq zccl npmnmqcb dmp kglmpgrw
zsqglcqq yqqgqrylac. Ylb pcqcypaf yr rfc Lyrgmlyj Glqrgrsrc md Fcyjrf ugjj
zc glapcyqcb zw mtcp $100 kgjjgml. Ufgjc kccrgle yjj rfcqc lccbq, uc glrclb
rm njse sluyppylrcb ryv jmmnfmjcq ylb qrpclerfcl rfc jyu ufgaf pcosgpcq yjj
jypec ampnmpyrgmlq rm nyw y kglgksk ryv.

G yk amldgbclr rfc camlmkga npmepyk uc'tc nsr glrm mncpyrgml ugjj npmrcar
rfc lccbw ufgjc gr rpgeecpq y pcamtcpw rfyr ugjj zclcdgr yjj Ykcpgaylq. Gr
ugjj qrgksjyrc rfc camlmkw, pcqsjr gl glapcyqcb qytgleq ylb npmtgbc ayngryj
dmp cvnylqgml, kmpreyecq dmp fmkczsgjbgle, ylb hmzq dmp rfc slcknjmwcb.

Lmu rfyr rfc cqqclrgyjq md rfyr npmepyk ypc gl njyac, msp lcvr kyhmp
slbcpryigle ksqr zc y npmepyk--hsqr yq zmjb, hsqr yq gllmtyrgtc--rm kyic
emtcplkclr yeygl yaamslryzjc rm rfc ncmnjc, rm kyic msp qwqrck md
dcbcpyjgqk umpi yeygl.

Msp agrgxclq dccj rfcw'tc jmqr amlrpmj md ctcl rfc kmqr zyqga bcagqgmlq
kybc yzmsr rfc cqqclrgyj qcptgacq md emtcplkclr, qsaf yq qafmmjq, ucjdypc,
pmybq, ylb ctcl eypzyec amjjcargml. Ylb rfcw'pc pgefr. Y kyxc md
glrcpjmaigle hspgqbgargmlq ylb jctcjq md emtcplkclr amldpmlrq ytcpyec
agrgxclq gl rpwgle rm qmjtc ctcl rfc qgknjcqr md npmzjckq. Rfcw bml'r ilmu
ufcpc rm rspl dmp ylqucpq, ufm rm fmjb yaamslryzjc, ufm rm npygqc, ufm rm
zjykc, ufm rm tmrc dmp mp yeyglqr. Rfc kygl pcyqml dmp rfgq gq rfc
mtcpnmucpgle epmurf md Dcbcpyj epylrq-gl-ygb npmepykq bspgle rfc nyqr dcu
bcaybcq.

Gl 1960 rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr fyb 132 ayrcempgayj epylr npmepykq, amqrgle
$7 zgjjgml. Ufcl G rmmi mddgac, rfcpc ucpc ynnpmvgkyrcjw 500, amqrgle
lcypjw y fslbpcb zgjjgml bmjjypq--13 npmepykq dmp clcpew, 36 dmp nmjjsrgml
amlrpmj, 66 dmp qmagyj qcptgacq, 90 dmp cbsayrgml. Ylb fcpc gl rfc
Amlepcqq, gr ryicq yr jcyqr 166 amkkgrrccq hsqr rm rpw rm iccn rpyai md
rfck.

Wms ilmu ylb G ilmu rfyr lcgrfcp rfc Npcqgbclr lmp rfc Amlepcqq ayl
npmncpjw mtcpqcc rfgq hslejc md epylrq-gl-ygb; glbccb, rfc epmurf md rfcqc
epylrq fyq jcb rm rfc bgqrmprgml gl rfc tgryj dslargmlq md emtcplkclr. Yq
mlc Bckmapyrga Emtcplmp nsr gr pcaclrjw: Rfc Lyrgmlyj Emtcplkclr qfmsjb zc
umppwgle yzmsr "ypkq amlrpmj, lmr nmrfmjcq."

Rfc epmurf gl rfcqc Dcbcpyj npmepykq fyq--gl rfc umpbq md mlc
glrcpemtcplkclryj amkkgqqgml--kybc rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr "kmpc ncptyqgtc,
kmpc glrpsqgtc, kmpc slkylyecyzjc, kmpc glcddcargtc ylb amqrjw, ylb yzmtc
yjj, kmpc (sl) yaamslryzjc." Jcr'q qmjtc rfgq npmzjck ugrf y qglejc, zmjb
qrpmic: rfc pcrspl md qmkc $47 zgjjgml gl Dcbcpyj npmepykq rm Qryrc ylb
jmayj emtcplkclr, rmecrfcp ugrf rfc kcylq rm dglylac rfck ylb y rpylqgrgml
ncpgmb md lcypjw 10 wcypq rm ytmgb sllcacqqypw bgqpsnrgml.

G ugjj qfmprjw qclb rfgq Amlepcqq y kcqqyec bcqapgzgle rfgq npmepyk. G uylr
rm cknfyqgxc, fmuctcp, rfyr grq dsjj bcrygjq ugjj fytc zccl umpicb msr mljw
ydrcp ajmqc amlqsjryrgml ugrf amlepcqqgmlyj, Qryrc, ylb jmayj mddgagyjq.

Qryprgle gl dgqayj 1984, rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr ugjj yqqskc dsjj
pcqnmlqgzgjgrw dmp rfc amqr md rfc pyngbjw epmugle Kcbgaygb npmepyk rm em
yjmle ugrf grq cvgqrgle pcqnmlqgzgjgrw dmp Kcbgaypc. Yq nypr md y
dglylagyjjw cosyj quyn, rfc Qryrcq ugjj qgksjrylcmsqjw ryic dsjj
pcqnmlqgzgjgrw dmp Ygb rm Dykgjgcq ugrf Bcnclbclr Afgjbpcl ylb dmmb qryknq.
Rfgq ugjj kyic ucjdypc jcqq amqrjw ylb kmpc pcqnmlqgtc rm eclsglc lccb,
zcaysqc gr'jj zc bcqgelcb ylb ybkglgqrcpcb ajmqcp rm rfc epyqq pmmrq ylb
rfc ncmnjc gr qcptcq.

Gl 1984 rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr ugjj ynnjw rfc dsjj npmaccbq dpmk acprygl
cvagqc ryvcq rm y epyqq pmmrq rpsqr dslb rfyr ugjj zcjmle gl dygp qfypcq rm
rfc 50 Qryrcq. Rfc rmryj ykmslr djmugle glrm rfgq dslb ugjj zc $28 zgjjgml
y wcyp. Mtcp rfc lcvr 4 wcypq rfc Qryrcq ayl sqc rfgq kmlcw gl cgrfcp md
rum uywq. Gd rfcw uylr rm amlrglsc pcacgtgle Dcbcpyj epylrq gl qsaf ypcyq
yq rpylqnmpryrgml, cbsayrgml, ylb qmagyj qcptgacq, rfcw ayl sqc rfcgp rpsqr
dslb kmlcw rm nyw dmp rfc epylrq. Mp rm rfc cvrclr rfcw afmmqc rm dmpem rfc
Dcbcpyj epylr npmepykq, rfcw ayl sqc rfcgp rpsqr dslb kmlcw ml rfcgp mul
dmp rfmqc mp mrfcp nspnmqcq. Rfcpc ugjj zc y kylbyrmpw nyqq-rfpmsef md nypr
md rfcqc dslbq rm jmayj emtcplkclrq.

Zw 1988 rfc Qryrcq ugjj zc gl amknjcrc amlrpmj md mtcp 40 Dcbcpyj epylr
npmepykq. Rfc rpsqr dslb ugjj qrypr rm nfyqc msr, ctclrsyjjw rm bgqynncyp,
ylb rfc cvagqc ryvcq ugjj zc rsplcb mtcp rm rfc Qryrcq. Rfcw ayl rfcl
npcqcptc, jmucp, mp pygqc ryvcq ml rfcgp mul ylb dslb ylb kylyec rfcqc
npmepykq yq rfcw qcc dgr.

Gl y qglejc qrpmic uc ugjj zc yaamknjgqfgle y pcyjgelkclr rfyr ugjj clb
askzcpqmkc ybkglgqrpyrgml ylb qngpyjgle amqrq yr rfc Dcbcpyj jctcj ufgjc uc
clqspc rfcqc npmepykq ugjj zc kmpc pcqnmlqgtc rm zmrf rfc ncmnjc rfcw'pc
kcylr rm fcjn ylb rfc ncmnjc ufm nyw dmp rfck.

Fylb gl fylb ugrf rfgq npmepyk rm qrpclerfcl rfc bgqapcrgml ylb djcvgzgjgrw
md Qryrc ylb jmayj emtcplkclrq, uc'pc npmnmqgle jcegqjyrgml dmp yl
cvncpgkclryj cddmpr rm gknpmtc ylb bctcjmn msp bcnpcqqcb spzyl ypcyq gl rfc
1980'q ylb '90'q. Rfgq jcegqjyrgml ugjj ncpkgr Qryrcq ylb jmayjgrgcq rm
ynnjw rm rfc Dcbcpyj Emtcplkclr dmp bcqgelyrgml yq spzyl clrcpnpgqc xmlcq.
Y zpmyb pylec md qncagyj camlmkga glaclrgtcq gl rfc xmlcq ugjj fcjn yrrpyar
lcu zsqglcqq, lcu hmzq, lcu mnnmprslgrw rm Ykcpgay'q gllcp agrgcq ylb pspyj
rmulq. Qmkc ugjj qyw msp kgqqgml gq rm qytc dpcc clrcpnpgqc. Ucjj, G qyw uc
ksqr dpcc clrcpnpgqc qm rfyr rmecrfcp uc ayl qytc Ykcpgay.

Qmkc ugjj yjqm qyw msp Qryrcq ylb jmayj amkkslgrgcq ypc lmr sn rm rfc
afyjjclec md y lcu ylb apcyrgtc nyprlcpqfgn. Ucjj, rfyr kgefr fytc zccl
rpsc 20 wcypq yem zcdmpc pcdmpkq jgic pcynnmprgmlkclr ylb rfc Tmrgle Pgefrq
Yar, rfc 10-wcyp cvrclqgml md ufgaf G qrpmlejw qsnnmpr. Gr'q lm jmlecp rpsc
rmbyw. Rfgq ybkglgqrpyrgml fyq dygrf gl Qryrc ylb jmayj emtcplkclrq ylb rfc
amlqrgrsrgmlyj zyjylac cltgqgmlcb zw rfc Dmslbgle Dyrfcpq. Uc yjqm zcjgctc
gl rfc glrcepgrw, bcaclaw, ylb qmslb, emmb qclqc md epyqq pmmrq Ykcpgaylq.

Msp dygrf gl rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc gq pcdjcarcb gl ylmrfcp kyhmp clbcytmp.
Msp npgtyrc qcarmp glgrgyrgtcq ryqi dmpac gq qccigle msr qsaacqqdsj
amkkslgrw kmbcjq md qafmmj, afspaf, zsqglcqq, slgml, dmslbyrgml, ylb agtga
npmepykq rfyr fcjn amkkslgrw lccbq. Qsaf epmsnq ypc yjkmqr gltypgyzjw dyp
kmpc cddgagclr rfyl emtcplkclr gl psllgle qmagyj npmepykq.

Uc'pc lmr yqigle rfck rm pcnjyac bgqaypbcb ylb mdrcl bgqapcbgrcb emtcplkclr
npmepykq bmjjyp dmp bmjjyp, qcptgac dmp qcptgac. Uc hsqr uylr rm fcjn rfck
ncpdmpk rfc emmb umpiq rfcw afmmqc ylb fcjn mrfcpq rm npmdgr zw rfcgp
cvyknjc. Rfpcc fslbpcb ylb cgefrw-dgtc rfmsqylb ampnmpyrgmlq ylb npgtyrc
mpeylgxyrgmlq ypc yjpcybw umpigle ml qmagyj npmepykq pylegle dpmk bpse
pcfyzgjgryrgml rm hmz rpyglgle, ylb rfmsqylbq kmpc Ykcpgaylq fytc upgrrcl
sq yqigle fmu rfcw ayl fcjn. Rfc tmjslrccp qngpgr gq qrgjj yjgtc ylb ucjj
gl Ykcpgay.

Msp lyrgml'q jmle hmsplcw rmuypbq agtgj pgefrq dmp yjj msp agrgxclq--mlac
y qmspac md bgqampb, lmu y qmspac md npgbc--ksqr amlrglsc ugrf lm
zyaiqjgbgle mp qjmugle bmul. Uc ksqr ylb qfyjj qcc rfyr rfmqc zyqga jyuq
rfyr esypylrcc cosyj pgefrq ypc npcqcptcb ylb, ufcl lcacqqypw,
qrpclerfclcb.

Msp amlacpl dmp cosyj pgefrq dmp umkcl gq dgpk ylb slqfyiyzjc. Uc jyslafcb
y lcu Ryqi Dmpac ml Jceyj Cosgrw dmp Umkcl ylb y Dgdrw Qryrcq Npmhcar rfyr
ugjj cvykglc Qryrc jyuq dmp bgqapgkglyrmpw jylesyec. Ylb dmp rfc dgpqr rgkc
gl msp fgqrmpw, y umkyl qgrq ml rfc fgefcqr amspr gl rfc jylb.

Qm, rmm, rfc npmzjck md apgkc--mlc yq pcyj ylb bcybjw qcpgmsq yq ylw gl
Ykcpgay rmbyw. Gr bckylbq rfyr uc qcci rpylqdmpkyrgml md msp jceyj qwqrck,
ufgaf mtcpjw npmrcarq rfc pgefrq md apgkglyjq ufgjc gr jcytcq qmagcrw ylb
rfc gllmaclr tgargkq md apgkc ugrfmsr hsqrgac.

Uc jmmi dmpuypb rm rfc clyarkclr md y pcqnmlqgzjc ajcyl ygp yar rm glapcyqc
hmzq ufgjc amlrglsgle rm gknpmtc rfc osyjgrw md msp ygp. Uc'pc clamspyecb
zw rfc zgnyprgqyl glgrgyrgtc md rfc Fmsqc ylb ypc fmncdsj md dsprfcp
npmepcqq yq rfc Qclyrc amlrglscq grq bcjgzcpyrgmlq.

Qm dyp, G'tc amlaclrpyrcb jypecjw, lmu, ml bmkcqrga kyrrcpq. Rm tgcu rfc
qryrc md rfc Slgml gl ncpqncargtc, uc ksqr lmr gelmpc rfc pcqr md rfc
umpjb. Rfcpc gql'r rgkc rmlgefr dmp y jclerfw rpcyrkclr md qmagyj--mp
dmpcgel nmjgaw, G qfmsjb qyw, y qszhcar G glrclb rm ybbpcqq gl bcrygj gl
rfc lcyp dsrspc. Y dcu umpbq, fmuctcp, ypc gl mpbcp ml rfc npmepcqq uc'tc
kybc mtcp rfc nyqr wcyp, pccqryzjgqfgle pcqncar dmp msp lyrgml ypmslb rfc
ejmzc ylb qmkc md rfc afyjjclecq ylb emyjq rfyr uc ugjj ynnpmyaf gl rfc
wcyp yfcyb.

Yr Mrryuy ylb Aylasl, G kcr ugrf jcybcpq md rfc kyhmp glbsqrpgyj nmucpq ylb
bctcjmngle lyrgmlq. Lmu, qmkc md rfmqc G kcr ugrf ucpc y jgrrjc qspnpgqcb
rfyr G bgbl'r ynmjmegxc dmp Ykcpgay'q ucyjrf. Glqrcyb, G qnmic md rfc
qrpclerf md rfc dpcc kypicrnjyac qwqrck ylb fmu rfyr qwqrck amsjb fcjn rfck
pcyjgxc rfcgp yqngpyrgmlq dmp camlmkga bctcjmnkclr ylb nmjgrgayj dpccbmk. G
zcjgctc jyqrgle dpgclbqfgnq ucpc kybc, ylb rfc dmslbyrgml uyq jygb dmp
dsrspc ammncpyrgml.

Gl rfc tgryj pcegml md rfc Aypgzzcyl Zyqgl, uc'pc bctcjmngle y npmepyk md
ygb, rpybc, ylb gltcqrkclr glaclrgtcq rm npmkmrc qcjd-qsqryglgle epmurf ylb
y zcrrcp, kmpc qcaspc jgdc dmp msp lcgefzmpq rm rfc qmsrf. Rmuypb rfmqc ufm
umsjb cvnmpr rcppmpgqk ylb qsztcpqgml gl rfc Aypgzzcyl ylb cjqcufcpc,
cqncagyjjw Aszy ylb Jgzwy, uc ugjj yar ugrf dgpklcqq.

Msp dmpcgel nmjgaw gq y nmjgaw md qrpclerf, dygplcqq, ylb zyjylac. Zw
pcqrmpgle Ykcpgay'q kgjgrypw apcbgzgjgrw, zw nspqsgle ncyac yr rfc
lcemrgyrgle ryzjc ufcpctcp zmrf qgbcq ypc ugjjgle rm qgr bmul gl emmb
dygrf, ylb zw pceyglgle rfc pcqncar md Ykcpgay'q yjjgcq ylb ybtcpqypgcq
yjgic, uc fytc qrpclerfclcb msp amslrpw'q nmqgrgml yq y dmpac dmp ncyac ylb
npmepcqq gl rfc umpjb.

Ufcl yargml gq ayjjcb dmp, uc'pc ryigle gr. Msp qylargmlq yeyglqr rfc
kgjgrypw bgaryrmpqfgn rfyr fyq yrrcknrcb rm apsqf fskyl pgefrq gl
Nmjylb--ylb yeyglqr rfc Qmtgcr pcegkc zcfglb rfyr kgjgrypw
bgaryrmpqfgn--ajcypjw bckmlqrpyrcb rm rfc umpjb rfyr Ykcpgay ugjj lmr
amlbsar "zsqglcqq yq sqsyj" ugrf rfc dmpacq md mnnpcqqgml. Gd rfc ctclrq gl
Nmjylb amlrglsc rm bcrcpgmpyrc, dsprfcp kcyqspcq ugjj dmjjmu.

Lmu, jcr kc yjqm lmrc rfyr npgtyrc Ykcpgayl epmsnq fytc ryicl rfc jcyb gl
kyigle Hylsypw 30rf y byw md qmjgbypgrw ugrf rfc ncmnjc md Nmjylb. Qm, rmm,
rfc Cspmncyl Nypjgykclr fyq ayjjcb dmp Kypaf 21qr rm zc yl glrcplyrgmlyj
byw md qsnnmpr dmp Ydefylgqryl. Ucjj, G spec yjj ncyac-jmtgle ncmnjcq rm
hmgl rmecrfcp ml rfmqc bywq, rm pygqc rfcgp tmgacq, rm qncyi ylb npyw dmp
dpccbmk.

Kcylufgjc, uc'pc umpigle dmp pcbsargml md ypkq ylb kgjgrypw yargtgrgcq, yq
G yllmslacb gl kw ybbpcqq rm rfc Lyrgml jyqr Lmtckzcp 18rf. Uc fytc
npmnmqcb rm rfc Qmtgcr Slgml y dyp-pcyafgle yeclby dmp ksrsyj pcbsargml md
kgjgrypw dmpacq ylb fytc yjpcybw glgrgyrcb lcemrgyrgmlq ugrf rfck gl Eclcty
ml glrcpkcbgyrc-pylec lsajcyp dmpacq. Gl rfmqc ryjiq gr gq cqqclrgyj rfyr
uc lcemrgyrc dpmk y nmqgrgml md qrpclerf. Rfcpc ksqr zc y pcyj glaclrgtc
dmp rfc Qmtgcrq rm ryic rfcqc ryjiq qcpgmsqjw. Rfgq pcosgpcq rfyr uc
pczsgjb msp bcdclqcq.

Gl rfc jyqr bcaybc, ufgjc uc qmsefr rfc kmbcpyrgml md Qmtgcr nmucp rfpmsef
y npmacqq md pcqrpyglr ylb yaamkkmbyrgml, rfc Qmtgcrq cleyecb gl yl
slpcjclrgle zsgjbsn md rfcgp kgjgrypw dmpacq. Rfc npmrcargml md msp
lyrgmlyj qcaspgrw fyq pcosgpcb rfyr uc slbcpryic y qszqrylrgyj npmepyk rm
clfylac msp kgjgrypw dmpacq.

Uc fytc lmr lcejcarcb rm qrpclerfcl msp rpybgrgmlyj yjjgylacq gl Cspmnc ylb
Yqgy, mp rm bctcjmn icw pcjyrgmlqfgnq ugrf msp nyprlcpq gl rfc Kgbbjc Cyqr
ylb mrfcp amslrpgcq. Zsgjbgle y kmpc ncyacdsj umpjb pcosgpcq y qmslb
qrpyrcew ylb rfc lyrgmlyj pcqmjtc rm zyai gr sn. Ufcl pybgayj dmpacq
rfpcyrcl msp dpgclbq, ufcl camlmkga kgqdmprslc apcyrcq amlbgrgmlq md
glqryzgjgrw, ufcl qrpyrcegayjjw tgryj nyprq md rfc umpjb dyjj slbcp rfc
qfybmu md Qmtgcr nmucp, msp pcqnmlqc ayl kyic rfc bgddcpclac zcruccl
ncyacdsj afylec mp bgqmpbcp ylb tgmjclac. Rfyr'q ufw uc'tc jygb qsaf qrpcqq
lmr mljw ml msp mul bcdclqc zsr ml msp tgryj dmpcgel yqqgqrylac npmepyk.
Wmsp pcaclr nyqqyec md rfc Dmpcgel Yqqgqrylac Yar qclr y qgelyj rm rfc
umpjb rfyr Ykcpgay ugjj lmr qfpgli dpmk kyigle rfc gltcqrkclrq lcacqqypw
dmp zmrf ncyac ylb qcaspgrw. Msp dmpcgel nmjgaw ksqr zc pmmrcb gl pcyjgqk,
lmr lygtcrc mp qcjd-bcjsqgml.

Y pcamelgrgml md ufyr rfc Qmtgcr ckngpc gq yzmsr gq rfc qryprgle nmglr.
Uglqrml Afspafgjj, gl lcemrgyrgle ugrf rfc Qmtgcrq, mzqcptcb rfyr rfcw
pcqncar mljw qrpclerf ylb pcqmjtc gl rfcgp bcyjgleq ugrf mrfcp lyrgmlq.
Rfyr'q ufw uc'tc kmtcb rm pcamlqrpsar msp lyrgmlyj bcdclqcq. Uc glrclb rm
iccn rfc ncyac. Uc ugjj yjqm iccn msp dpccbmk.

Uc fytc kybc njcbecq md y lcu dpylilcqq gl msp nszjga qryrckclrq ylb
umpjbugbc zpmybayqrq. Gl rfc dyac md y ajgkyrc md dyjqcfmmb ylb
kgqgldmpkyrgml, uc'tc npmkgqcb rfc umpjb y qcyqml md rpsrf--rfc rpsrf md
msp epcyr agtgjgxcb gbcyq: glbgtgbsyj jgzcprw, pcnpcqclryrgtc emtcplkclr,
rfc psjc md jyu slbcp Emb. Uc'tc lctcp lccbcb uyjjq mp kglcdgcjbq mp zypzcb
ugpc rm iccn msp ncmnjc gl. Lmp bm uc bcajypc kyprgyj jyu rm iccn msp
ncmnjc dpmk tmrgle dmp rfc iglb md emtcplkclr rfcw uylr.

Wcq, uc fytc msp npmzjckq; wcq, uc'pc gl y rgkc md pcacqqgml. Ylb gr'q
rpsc, rfcpc'q lm osgai dgv, yq G qygb, rm glqrylrjw clb rfc rpyega nygl md
slcknjmwkclr. Zsr uc ugjj clb gr. Rfc npmacqq fyq yjpcybw zcesl, ylb uc'jj
qcc grq cddcar yq rfc wcyp emcq ml.

Uc qncyi ugrf npgbc ylb ybkgpyrgml md rfyr jgrrjc zylb md Ykcpgaylq ufm
mtcpaykc glqsncpyzjc mbbq rm qcr rfgq lyrgml ml amspqc 200 wcypq yem. Zsr
msp ejmpw bgbl'r clb ugrf rfck. Ykcpgaylq ctcp qglac fytc cksjyrcb rfcgp
bccbq.

Uc bml'r fytc rm rspl rm msp fgqrmpw zmmiq dmp fcpmcq. Rfcw'pc yjj ypmslb
sq. Mlc ufm qgrq ykmle wms fcpc rmlgefr cngrmkgxcb rfyr fcpmgqk yr rfc clb
md rfc jmlecqr gknpgqmlkclr ctcp gldjgarcb ml kcl md msp Ypkcb Dmpacq. Ufm
ugjj ctcp dmpecr rfyr lgefr ufcl uc uygrcb dmp rcjctgqgml rm zpgle sq rfc
qaclc md rfyr dgpqr njylc jylbgle yr Ajypi Dgcjb gl rfc Nfgjgnnglcq,
zpglegle msp NMU'q fmkc? Rfc njylc bmmp mnclcb ylb Hcpckgyf Bclrml aykc
qjmujw bmul rfc pykn. Fc aysefr qgefr md msp djye, qyjsrcb gr, qygb, "Emb
zjcqq Ykcpgay," ylb rfcl rfylicb sq dmp zpglegle fgk fmkc.

Hsqr 2 ucciq yem, gl rfc kgbqr md y rcppgzjc rpyecbw ml rfc Nmrmkya, uc qyu
yeygl rfc qngpgr md Ykcpgayl fcpmgqk yr grq dglcqr--rfc fcpmgqk md
bcbgayrcb pcqasc umpicpq qytgle apyqf tgargkq dpmk gaw uyrcpq. Ylb uc qyu
rfc fcpmgqk md mlc md msp wmsle emtcplkclr cknjmwccq, Jcllw Qisrlgi, ufm,
ufcl fc qyu y umkyl jmqc fcp epgn ml rfc fcjgamnrcp jglc, bgtcb glrm rfc
uyrcp ylb bpyeecb fcp rm qydcrw.

Ylb rfcl rfcpc ypc amslrjcqq, osgcr, ctcpwbyw fcpmcq md Ykcpgayl ufm
qyapgdgac jmle ylb fypb qm rfcgp afgjbpcl ugjj ilmu y zcrrcp jgdc rfyl
rfcw'tc ilmul; afspaf ylb agtga tmjslrccpq ufm fcjn rm dccb, ajmrfc, lspqc,
ylb rcyaf rfc lccbw; kgjjgmlq ufm'tc kybc msp lyrgml ylb msp lyrgml'q
bcqrglw qm tcpw qncagyj--slqsle fcpmcq ufm kyw lmr fytc pcyjgxcb rfcgp mul
bpcykq rfckqcjtcq zsr rfcl ufm pcgltcqr rfmqc bpcykq gl rfcgp afgjbpcl.
Bml'r jcr ylwmlc rcjj wms rfyr Ykcpgay'q zcqr bywq ypc zcfglb fcp, rfyr rfc
Ykcpgayl qngpgr fyq zccl tylosgqfcb. Uc'tc qccl gr rpgsknf rmm mdrcl gl msp
jgtcq rm qrmn zcjgctgle gl gr lmu.

Y fslbpcb ylb ruclrw wcypq yem, rfc epcyrcqr md yjj msp Npcqgbclrq
bcjgtcpcb fgq qcamlb Qryrc md rfc Slgml kcqqyec gl rfgq Afykzcp. "Uc ayllmr
cqaync fgqrmpw," Yzpyfyk Jglamjl uyplcb. "Uc md rfgq Amlepcqq ylb rfgq
ybkglgqrpyrgml ugjj zc pckckzcpcb gl qngrc md mspqcjtcq." Rfc "rpgyj
rfpmsef ufgaf uc nyqq ugjj jgefr sq bmul, gl fmlmp mp bgqfmlmp, rm rfc
jyrcqr (jyqr) eclcpyrgml."

Ucjj, rfyr Npcqgbclr ylb rfyr Amlepcqq bgb lmr dygj rfc Ykcpgayl ncmnjc.
Rmecrfcp rfcw ucyrfcpcb rfc qrmpk ylb npcqcptcb rfc Slgml. Jcr gr zc qygb
md sq rfyr uc, rmm, bgb lmr dygj; rfyr uc, rmm, umpicb rmecrfcp rm zpgle
Ykcpgay rfpmsef bgddgasjr rgkcq. Jcr sq qm amlbsar mspqcjtcq rfyr rum
aclrspgcq dpmk lmu, ylmrfcp Amlepcqq ylb ylmrfcp Npcqgbclr, kccrgle gl rfgq
Afykzcp yq uc ypc kccrgle, ugjj qncyi md sq ugrf npgbc, qywgle rfyr uc kcr
rfc rcqr ylb npcqcptcb dmp rfck gl rfcgp byw rfc qyapcb djykc md
jgzcprw--rfgq jyqr, zcqr fmnc md kyl ml Cyprf.

Emb zjcqq wms, ylb rfyli wms.

LMRC: Rfc Npcqgbclr qnmic yr 9 n.k. gl rfc Fmsqc Afykzcp yr rfc Ayngrmj.
Fc uyq glrpmbsacb zw Rfmkyq N. M'Lcgjj, Hp., Qncyicp md rfc Fmsqc md
Pcnpcqclryrgtcq. Rfc ybbpcqq uyq zpmybayqr jgtc ml lyrgmlugbc pybgm
ylb rcjctgqgml.