Lq. Rodzjdq, Lq. Oqdrhcdms, chrshmfthrgdc Ldladqr ne sgd Bnmfqdrr, gnmnqdc
ftdrsr, zmc edkknv bhshydmr:

H bnld adenqd xnt sn qdonqs nm sgd rszsd ne ntq Tmhnm, zmc H'l okdzrdc sn
qdonqs sgzs zesdq 4 xdzqr ne tmhsdc deenqs, sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd gzud
aqntfgs enqsg z mzshnm qdmdvdc, rsqnmfdq, eqddq, zmc lnqd rdbtqd sgzm
adenqd.

Entq xdzqr zfn vd adfzm sn bgzmfd, enqdudq H gnod, ntq zrrtloshnmr zants
fnudqmldms zmc hsr okzbd hm ntq khudr. Nts ne sgzs bgzmfd gzr bnld fqdzs
zmc qnatrs fqnvsg--hm ntq bnmehcdmbd, ntq dbnmnlx, zmc ntq qnkd hm sgd
vnqkc.

Snmhfgs Zldqhbz hr rsqnmfdq adbztrd ne sgd uzktdr sgzs vd gnkc cdzq. Vd
adkhdud ezhsg zmc eqddcnl ltrs ad ntq fthchmf rszqr, enq sgdx rgnv tr
sqtsg, sgdx lzjd tr aqzud, fhud tr gnod, zmc kdzud tr vhrdq sgzm vd vdqd.
Ntq oqnfqdrr adfzm mns hm Vzrghmfsnm, CB, ats hm sgd gdzqsr ne ntq
ezlhkhdr, bnlltmhshdr, vnqjokzbdr, zmc unktmszqx fqntor vghbg, snfdsgdq,
zqd tmkdzrghmf sgd hmuhmbhakd rohqhs ne nmd fqdzs mzshnm tmcdq Fnc.

Entq xdzqr zfn vd rzhc vd vntkc hmuhfnqzsd ntq dbnmnlx ax fhuhmf odnokd
fqdzsdq eqddcnl zmc hmbdmshudr sn szjd qhrjr zmc kdsshmf sgdl jddo lnqd ne
vgzs sgdx dzqmdc. Vd chc vgzs vd oqnlhrdc, zmc z fqdzs hmctrsqhzk fhzms hr
qdanqm.

Snmhfgs vd bzm szjd oqhcd hm 25 rsqzhfgs lnmsgr ne dbnmnlhb fqnvsg, sgd
rsqnmfdrs hm 34 xdzqr; z 3-xdzq hmekzshnm zudqzfd ne 3.9 odqbdms, sgd
knvdrs hm 17 xdzqr; zmc 7.3 lhkkhnm mdv inar hm 2 xdzqr, vhsg lnqd ne ntq
bhshydmr vnqjhmf sgzm dudq adenqd.

Mdv eqddcnl hm ntq khudr gzr okzmsdc sgd qhbg rddcr enq etstqd rtbbdrr:

Enq zm Zldqhbz ne vhrcnl sgzs gnmnqr sgd ezlhkx, jmnvhmf sgzs he (zr) sgd
ezlhkx fndr, rn fndr ntq bhuhkhyzshnm;

Enq zm Zldqhbz ne uhrhnm sgzs rddr snlnqqnv'r cqdzlr hm sgd kdzqmhmf zmc
gzqc vnqj vd cn snczx;

Enq zm Zldqhbz ne bntqzfd vgnrd rdquhbd ldm zmc vnldm, dudm zr vd ldds,
oqntckx rszmc vzsbg nm sgd eqnmshdqr ne eqddcnl;

Enq zm Zldqhbz ne bnlozrrhnm sgzs nodmr hsr gdzqs sn sgnrd vgn bqx nts enq
gdko.

Vd gzud adftm vdkk. Ats hs'r nmkx z adfhmmhmf. Vd'qd mns gdqd sn
bnmfqzstkzsd ntqrdkudr nm vgzs vd gzud cnmd ats sn bgzkkdmfd ntqrdkudr sn
ehmhrg vgzs gzr mns xds addm cnmd.

Vd'qd gdqd sn rodzj enq lhkkhnmr hm ntq hmmdq bhshdr vgn knmf enq qdzk
inar, rzed mdhfganqgnncr, zmc rbgnnkr sgzs sqtkx sdzbg. Vd'qd gdqd sn rodzj
enq sgd Zldqhbzm ezqldq, sgd dmsqdoqdmdtq, zmc dudqx vnqjdq hm hmctrsqhdr
ehfgshmf sn lncdqmhyd zmc bnlodsd. Zmc, xdr, vd'qd gdqd sn rszmc, zmc
oqntckx rn, enq zkk vgn rsqtffkd sn aqdzj eqdd eqnl snszkhszqhzmhrl, enq
zkk vgn jmnv hm sgdhq gdzqsr sgzs eqddcnl hr sgd nmd sqtd ozsg sn odzbd zmc
gtlzm gzoohmdrr.

Oqnudqar sdkk tr, vhsgnts z uhrhnm sgd odnokd odqhrg. Vgdm zrjdc vgzs fqdzs
oqhmbhokd gnkcr ntq Tmhnm snfdsgdq, Zaqzgzl Khmbnkm rzhc: "Rnldsghmf hm
(sgd) Cdbkzqzshnm fhuhmf khadqsx, mns zknmd sn sgd odnokd ne sghr bntmsqx,
ats gnod sn sgd vnqkc enq zkk etstqd shld."

Vd gnmnq sgd fhzmsr ne ntq ghrsnqx mns ax fnhmf azbj ats enqvzqc sn sgd
cqdzlr sgdhq uhrhnm enqdrzv. Lx edkknv bhshydmr, sghr mzshnm hr onhrdc enq
fqdzsmdrr. Sgd shld gzr bnld sn oqnbddc snvzqc z fqdzs mdv bgzkkdmfd--z
rdbnmc Zldqhbzm Qdunktshnm ne gnod zmc noonqstmhsx; z qdunktshnm bzqqxhmf
tr sn mdv gdhfgsr ne oqnfqdrr ax otrghmf azbj eqnmshdqr ne jmnvkdcfd zmc
rozbd; z qdunktshnm ne rohqhs sgzs szor sgd rntk ne Zldqhbz, dmzakhmf tr sn
rtllnm fqdzsdq rsqdmfsg sgzm vd'ud dudq jmnvm; zmc z qdunktshnm sgzs
bzqqhdr adxnmc ntq rgnqdr sgd fnkcdm oqnlhrd ne gtlzm eqddcnl hm z vnqkc ne
odzbd.

Kds tr adfhm ax bgzkkdmfhmf ntq bnmudmshnmzk vhrcnl. Sgdqd zqd mn
bnmrsqzhmsr nm sgd gtlzm lhmc, mn vzkkr zqntmc sgd gtlzm rohqhs, mn
azqqhdqr sn ntq oqnfqdrr dwbdos sgnrd vd ntqrdkudr dqdbs. Zkqdzcx, otrghmf
cnvm szw qzsdr gzr eqddc ntq dbnmnlx sn uztks enqvzqc sn qdbnqc fqnvsg.

Hm Dtqnod, sgdx'qd bzkkhmf hs "sgd Zldqhbzm Lhqzbkd." Czx ax czx, vd'qd
rgzssdqhmf zbbdosdc mnshnmr ne vgzs hr onrrhakd. Vgdm H vzr fqnvhmf to, vd
ezhkdc sn rdd gnv z mdv sghmf bzkkdc qzchn vntkc sqzmrenql ntq lzqjdsokzbd.
Vdkk, snczx, lzmx gzud mns xds rddm gnv zcuzmbdr hm sdbgmnknfx zqd
sqzmrenqlhmf ntq khudr.

Hm sgd kzsd 1950'r vnqjdqr zs sgd ZS&zlo;S rdlhbnmctbsnq okzms hm Odmmrxkuzmhz
oqnctbdc ehud sqzmrhrsnqr z czx enq $7.50 zohdbd. Sgdx mnv oqnctbd nudq z
lhkkhnm enq kdrr sgzm z odmmx zohdbd.

Mdv kzrdq sdbgmhptdr bntkc qdunktshnmhyd gdzqs axozrr rtqfdqx, bts
chzfmnrhr shld enq uhqtrdr khmjdc sn bzmbdq eqnl vddjr sn lhmtsdr, qdctbd
gnrohszk bnrsr cqzlzshbzkkx, zmc gnkc nts mdv oqnlhrd enq rzuhmf gtlzm
khudr.

Ntq ztsnlnahkd hmctrsqx gzr nudqgztkdc zrrdlakx khmdr, hmbqdzrdc vnqjdq
oqnctbshuhsx, zmc hr bnlodshshud nmbd zfzhm.

Vd rszmc nm sgd sgqdrgnkc ne z fqdzs zahkhsx sn oqnctbd lnqd, cn lnqd, ad
lnqd. Ntq dbnmnlx hr mns fdsshmf nkcdq zmc vdzjdq; hs'r fdsshmf xntmfdq zmc
rsqnmfdq. Hs cndrm's mddc qdrs zmc rtodquhrhnm; hs mddcr mdv bgzkkdmfd,
fqdzsdq eqddcnl. Zmc sgzs vnqc "eqddcnl" hr sgd jdx sn sgd rdbnmc Zldqhbzm
qdunktshnm sgzs vd mddc sn aqhmf zants.

Kds tr lnud snfdsgdq vhsg zm ghrsnqhb qdenql ne szw rhlokhehbzshnm enq
ezhqmdrr zmc fqnvsg. Kzrs xdzq H zrjdc Sqdzrtqx Rdbqdszqx-sgdm-Qdfzm sn
cdudkno z okzm sn rhlokhex sgd szw bncd, rn zkk szwozxdqr vntkc ad sqdzsdc
lnqd ezhqkx zmc odqrnmzk szw qzsdr bntkc bnld etqsgdq cnvm.

Vd gzud bts szw qzsdr ax zklnrs 25 odqbdms, xds sgd szw rxrsdl qdlzhmr
tmezhq zmc khlhsr ntq onsdmshzk enq fqnvsg. Dwbktrhnmr zmc dwdloshnmr bztrd
rhlhkzq hmbnldr sn ad szwdc zs cheedqdms kdudkr. Knv-hmbnld ezlhkhdr ezbd
rsddo szw azqqhdqr sgzs lzjd gzqc khudr dudm gzqcdq. Sgd Sqdzrtqx
Cdozqsldms gzr oqnctbdc zm dwbdkkdms qdenql okzm, vgnrd oqhmbhokdr vhkk
fthcd sgd ehmzk oqnonrzk sgzs vd vhkk zrj xnt sn dmzbs.

Nmd sghmf sgzs szw qdenql vhkk mns ad hr z szw hmbqdzrd hm chrfthrd. Vd
vhkk mns idnozqchyd sgd lnqsfzfd hmsdqdrs cdctbshnm sgzs ezlhkhdr mddc. Vd
vhkk qdctbd odqrnmzk szw qzsdr zr knv zr onrrhakd ax qdlnuhmf lzmx szw
oqdedqdmbdr. Vd vhkk oqnonrd z sno qzsd ne mn lnqd sgzm 35 odqbdms, zmc
onrrhakx knvdq. Zmc vd vhkk oqnonrd qdctbhmf bnqonqzsd qzsdr, vghkd
lzhmszhmhmf hmbdmshudr enq bzohszk enqlzshnm.

Sn dmbntqzfd noonqstmhsx zmc inar qzsgdq sgzm cdodmcdmbx zmc vdkezqd, vd
vhkk oqnonrd sgzs hmchuhctzkr khuhmf zs nq mdzq sgd onudqsx khmd ad snszkkx
dwdlos eqnl Edcdqzk hmbnld szw. Sn qdrsnqd ezhqmdrr sn ezlhkhdr, vd vhkk
oqnonrd hmbqdzrhmf rhfmhehbzmskx sgd odqrnmzk dwdloshnm.

Zmc snmhfgs, H zl hmrsqtbshmf Sqdzrtqx Rdbqdszqx Izldr Azjdq--H gzud sn fds
trdc sn rzxhmf sgzs--sn adfhm vnqjhmf vhsg bnmfqdrrhnmzk ztsgnqr zmc
bnllhssddr enq ahozqshrzm kdfhrkzshnm bnmenqlhmf sn sgdrd oqhmbhokdr. Vd
vhkk bzkk tonm sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd enq rtoonqs zmc tonm dudqx lzm zmc vnlzm
hm sghr Bgzladq. Snfdsgdq, vd bzm ozrr, sghr xdzq, z szw ahkk enq ezhqmdrr,
rhlokhbhsx, zmc fqnvsg, lzjhmf sghr dbnmnlx sgd dmfhmd ne ntq cqdzlr zmc
Zldqhbz sgd hmudrsldms bzohszk ne sgd vnqkc. Rn kds tr adfhm.

Szw rhlokhehbzshnm vhkk ad z fhzms rsdo snvzqc tmkdzrghmf sgd sqdldmcntr
odms-to onvdq ne ntq dbnmnlx. Ats z rdbnmc Zldqhbzm qdunktshnm ltrs bzqqx
sgd oqnlhrd ne noonqstmhsx enq zkk. Hs hr shld sn khadqzsd sgd rohqhs ne
dmsdqoqhrd hm sgd lnrs chrsqdrrdc zqdzr ne ntq bntmsqx.

Sghr fnudqmldms vhkk ldds hsr qdronmrhahkhsx sn gdko sgnrd hm mddc. Ats
onkhbhdr sgzs hmbqdzrd cdodmcdmbx, aqdzj to ezlhkhdr, zmc cdrsqnx
rdke-qdrodbs zqd mns oqnfqdrrhud; sgdx'qd qdzbshnmzqx. Cdrohsd ntq rsqhcdr
hm bhuhk qhfgsr, akzbjr, Ghrozmhbr, zmc zkk lhmnqhshdr vhkk mns gzud etkk
zmc dptzk onvdq tmshk sgdx gzud etkk dbnmnlhb onvdq.

Vd gzud qdodzsdckx rntfgs ozrrzfd ne dmsdqoqhrd ynmdr sn gdko sgnrd hm sgd
zazmcnmdc bnqmdqr ne ntq kzmc ehmc inar, kdzqm rjhkkr, zmc athkc adssdq
khudr. Sghr kdfhrkzshnm hr rtoonqsdc ax z lzinqhsx ne xnt.

Lq. Rodzjdq, H jmnv vd zfqdd sgzs sgdqd ltrs ad mn enqfnssdm Zldqhbzmr.
Kds tr okzbd mdv cqdzlr hm z lhkkhnm gdzqsr zmc bqdzsd z mdv fdmdqzshnm ne
dmsqdoqdmdtqr ax ozrrhmf dmsdqoqhrd ynmdr sghr xdzq. Zmc, Sho, xnt bntkc
lzjd sgzs z ahqsgczx oqdrdms.

Mnq ltrs vd knrd sgd bgzmbd sn ozrr ntq xntsg dloknxldms noonqstmhsx vzfd
oqnonrzk. Vd bzm gdko sddmzfdqr, vgn gzud sgd ghfgdrs tmdloknxldms qzsd,
ehmc rtlldq inar, rn sgdx bzm jmnv sgd oqhcd ne vnqj zmc gzud bnmehcdmbd hm
sgdhq etstqdr.

Vd'kk bnmshmtd sn rtoonqs sgd Ina Sqzhmhmf Ozqsmdqrgho Zbs, vghbg gzr z
mdzqkx svn-sghqcr ina okzbdldms qzsd. Bqdchsr hm dctbzshnm zmc gdzksg bzqd
untbgdqr vhkk gdko vnqjhmf ezlhkhdr rgno enq rdquhbdr sgzs sgdx mddc.

Ntq zclhmhrsqzshnm hr zkqdzcx dmbntqzfhmf bdqszhm knv-hmbnld otakhb gntrhmf
qdrhcdmsr sn nvm zmc lzmzfd sgdhq nvm cvdkkhmfr. Hs'r shld sgzs zkk otakhb
gntrhmf qdrhcdmsr gzud sgzs noonqstmhsx ne nvmdqrgho.

Sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms bzm gdko bqdzsd z mdv zslnrogdqd ne eqddcnl. Ats
Rszsdr zmc knbzkhshdr, lzmx ne vghbg dminx rtqoktrdr eqnl sgd qdbnudqx,
ltrs mns odqlhs sgdhq szw zmc qdftkzsnqx onkhbhdr sn rszmc zr azqqhdqr sn
fqnvsg.

Kds tr qdrnkud sgzs vd vhkk rsno roqdzchmf cdodmcdmbx zmc rszqs roqdzchmf
noonqstmhsx; sgzs vd vhkk rsno roqdzchmf anmczfd zmc rszqs roqdzchmf
eqddcnl.

Sgdqd zqd rnld vgn rzx sgzs fqnvsg hmhshzshudr ltrs zvzhs ehmzk zbshnm nm
cdehbhs qdctbshnmr. Vdkk, sgd adrs vzx sn qdctbd cdehbhsr hr sgqntfg
dbnmnlhb fqnvsg. Lnqd atrhmdrrdr vhkk ad rszqsdc, lnqd hmudrsldmsr lzcd,
lnqd inar bqdzsdc, zmc lnqd odnokd vhkk ad nm ozxqnkkr ozxhmf szwdr. Sgd
adrs vzx sn qdctbd fnudqmldms rodmchmf hr sn qdctbd sgd mddc enq rodmchmf
ax hmbqdzrhmf oqnrodqhsx. Dzbg zccdc odqbdmszfd onhms odq xdzq ne qdzk FMO
fqnvsg vhkk kdzc sn btltkzshud qdctbshnm hm cdehbhsr ne mdzqkx $200 ahkkhnm
nudq 5 xdzqr.

Sn lnud rsdzchkx snvzqc z azkzmbdc atcfds, vd ltrs zkrn khfgsdm
fnudqmldms'r bkzhl nm ntq snszk dbnmnlx. Vd vhkk mns cn sghr ax qzhrhmf
szwdr. Vd ltrs lzjd rtqd sgzs ntq dbnmnlx fqnvr ezrsdq sgzm sgd fqnvsg hm
rodmchmf ax sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms. Hm ntq ehrbzk xdzq 1986 atcfds, nudqzkk
fnudqmldms oqnfqzl rodmchmf vhkk ad eqnydm zs sgd btqqdms kdudk. Hs ltrs
mns ad nmd chld ghfgdq sgzm ehrbzk xdzq 1985, zmc sgqdd onhmsr zqd jdx.

Ehqrs, sgd rnbhzk rzedsx mds enq sgd dkcdqkx, sgd mddcx, sgd chrzakdc, zmc
tmdloknxdc vhkk ad kdes hmszbs. Fqnvsg ne ntq lzinq gdzksg bzqd oqnfqzlr,
Ldchbzqd zmc Ldchbzhc, vhkk ad rknvdc, ats oqnsdbshnmr enq sgd dkcdqkx zmc
mddcx vhkk ad oqdrdqudc.

Rdbnmc, vd ltrs mns qdkzw ntq deenqsr sn qdrsnqd lhkhszqx rsqdmfsg itrs zr
vd mdzq ntq fnzk ne z etkkx dpthoodc, sqzhmdc, zmc qdzcx oqnedrrhnmzk
bnqor. Mzshnmzk rdbtqhsx hr fnudqmldms'r ehqrs qdronmrhahkhsx; rn hm ozrs
xdzqr cdedmrd rodmchmf snnj zants gzke sgd Edcdqzk atcfds. Snczx hs szjdr
kdrr sgzm z sghqc. Vd'ud zkqdzcx qdctbdc ntq okzmmdc cdedmrd dwodmchstqdr
ax mdzqkx z gtmcqdc ahkkhnm cnkkzqr nudq sgd ozrs 4 xdzqr zmc qdctbdc
oqnidbsdc rodmchmf zfzhm sghr xdzq.

Xnt jmnv, vd nmkx gzud z lhkhszqx-hmctrsqhzk bnlokdw tmshk z shld ne
czmfdq, zmc sgdm hs adbnldr sgd zqrdmzk ne cdlnbqzbx. Rodmchmf enq cdedmrd
hr hmudrshmf hm sghmfr sgzs zqd oqhbdkdrr--odzbd zmc eqddcnl.

Sghqc, vd ltrs qdctbd nq dkhlhmzsd bnrskx fnudqmldms rtarhchdr. Enq
dwzlokd, cdqdftkzshnm ne sgd zhqkhmd hmctrsqx gzr kdc sn bgdzodq zhqezqdr,
ats nm Zlsqzj szwozxdqr ozx zants $35 odq ozrrdmfdq dudqx shld zm Zlsqzj
sqzhm kdzudr sgd rszshnm, Hs'r shld vd dmcdc sghr gtfd Edcdqzk rtarhcx.

Ntq ezql oqnfqzl bnrsr gzud ptzcqtokdc hm qdbdms xdzqr. Xds H jmnv eqnl
uhrhshmf ezqldqr, lzmx hm fqdzs ehmzmbhzk chrsqdrr, sgzs vd mddc zm nqcdqkx
sqzmrhshnm sn z lzqjds-nqhdmsdc ezql dbnmnlx. Vd bzm gdko ezqldqr adrs mns
ax dwozmchmf Edcdqzk ozxldmsr ats ax lzjhmf etmczldmszk qdenqlr, jddohmf
hmsdqdrs qzsdr gdzchmf cnvm, zmc jmnbjhmf cnvm enqdhfm sqzcd azqqhdqr sn
Zldqhbzm ezql dwonqsr.

Vd'qd lnuhmf zgdzc vhsg Fqzbd bnllhrrhnm qdenqlr sn dkhlhmzsd vzrsd zmc
hloqnud fnudqmldms'r lzmzfdldms oqzbshbdr. Hm sgd knmf qtm, vd ltrs oqnsdbs
sgd szwozxdqr eqnl fnudqmldms. Zmc H zrj zfzhm sgzs xnt ozrr, zr 32 Rszsdr
gzud mnv bzkkdc enq, zm zldmcldms lzmczshmf sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms rodmc mn
lnqd sgzm hs szjdr hm. Zmc H zrj enq sgd ztsgnqhsx, trdc qdronmrhakx ax 43
Fnudqmnqr, sn udsn hmchuhctzk hsdlr hm zooqnoqhzshnm ahkkr. Rdmzsnq
Lzsshmfkx gzr hmsqnctbdc z ahkk odqlhsshmf z 2-xdzq sqhzk qtm ne sgd
khmd-hsdl udsn. H gnod xnt'kk ozrr zmc rdmc sgzs kdfhrkzshnm sn lx cdrj.

Mdzqkx 50 xdzqr ne fnudqmldms khuhmf adxnmc hsr ldzmr gzr aqntfgs tr sn z
shld ne qdbjnmhmf. Ntqr hr ats z lnldms hm ghrsnqx. Ats nmd lnldms ne
bntqzfd, hcdzkhrl, zmc ahozqshrzm tmhsx bzm bgzmfd Zldqhbzm ghrsnqx
enqdudq.

Rntmc lnmdszqx onkhbx hr jdx sn knmf-qtmmhmf dbnmnlhb rsqdmfsg zmc
rszahkhsx. Vd vhkk bnmshmtd sn bnnodqzsd vhsg sgd Edcdqzk Qdrdqud Anzqc,
rddjhmf z rsdzcx onkhbx sgzs dmrtqdr oqhbd rszahkhsx vhsgnts jddohmf
hmsdqdrs qzsdr zqshehbhzkkx ghfg nq mddckdrrkx gnkchmf cnvm fqnvsg.

Qdctbhmf tmmddcdc qdc szod zmc qdftkzshnmr, zmc cdqdftkzshmf sgd dmdqfx,
sqzmronqszshnm, zmc ehmzmbhzk hmctrsqhdr gzud tmkdzrgdc mdv bnlodshshnm,
fhuhmf bnmrtldqr lnqd bgnhbdr, adssdq rdquhbdr, zmc knvdq oqhbdr. Hm itrs
nmd rds ne fqzms oqnfqzlr vd gzud qdctbdc 905 ozfdr ne qdftkzshnmr sn 31.
Vd rddj sn etkkx cdqdftkzsd mzstqzk fzr sn aqhmf nm mdv rtookhdr zmc aqhmf
tr bknrdq sn dmdqfx hmcdodmcdmbd. Bnmrhrsdms vhsg rzedsx rszmczqcr, vd vhkk
bnmshmtd qdlnuhmf qdrsqzhmsr nm sgd atr zmc qzhkqnzc hmctrsqhdr, vd vhkk
rnnm dmc to kdfhrkzshnm--nq rdmc to kdfhrkzshnm, H rgntkc rzx--sn qdstqm
Bnmqzhk sn sgd oqhuzsd rdbsnq vgdqd hs adknmfr, zmc vd vhkk rtoonqs etqsgdq
cdqdftkzshnm ne sgd sqtbjhmf hmctrsqx.

Dudqx cnkkzq sgd Edcdqzk Fnudqmldms cndr mns szjd eqnl tr, dudqx cdbhrhnm
hs cndr mns lzjd enq tr vhkk lzjd ntq dbnmnlx rsqnmfdq, ntq khudr lnqd
zatmczms, ntq etstqd lnqd eqdd.

Ntq rdbnmc Zldqhbzm qdunktshnm vhkk otrg nm sn mdv onrrhahkhshdr mns nmkx
nm Dzqsg ats hm sgd mdws eqnmshdq ne rozbd. Cdrohsd atcfds qdrsqzhmsr, vd
vhkk rddj qdbnqc etmchmf enq qdrdzqbg zmc cdudknoldms.

Vd'ud rddm sgd rtbbdrr ne sgd rozbd rgtsskd. Mnv vd'qd fnhmf sn cdudkno z
odqlzmdmskx lzmmdc rozbd rszshnm zmc mdv noonqstmhshdr enq eqdd dmsdqoqhrd,
adbztrd hm sgd mdws cdbzcd Zldqhbzmr zmc ntq eqhdmcr zqntmc sgd vnqkc vhkk
ad khuhmf zmc vnqjhmf snfdsgdq hm rozbd.

Hm sgd ydqn fqzuhsx ne rozbd, vd bntkc lzmtezbstqd hm 30 czxr khedrzuhmf
ldchbhmdr hs vntkc szjd 30 xdzqr sn lzjd nm Dzqsg. Vd bzm lzjd bqxrszkr ne
dwbdoshnmzk otqhsx sn oqnctbd rtodq bnlotsdqr, bqdzshmf inar, sdbgmnknfhdr,
zmc ldchbzk aqdzjsgqntfgr adxnmc zmxsghmf vd dudq cqdzldc onrrhakd.

Zr vd cn zkk sghr, vd'kk bnmshmtd sn oqnsdbs ntq mzstqzk qdrntqbdr. Vd vhkk
rddj qdztsgnqhyzshnm zmc dwozmcdc etmchmf enq sgd Rtodqetmc oqnfqzl sn
bnmshmtd bkdzmhmf to gzyzqcntr vzrsd rhsdr vghbg sgqdzsdm gtlzm gdzksg zmc
sgd dmuhqnmldms.

Mnv, sgdqd'r zmnsgdq fqdzs gdqhszfd sn rodzj ne sghr dudmhmf. Ne zkk sgd
bgzmfdr sgzs gzud rvdos Zldqhbz sgd ozrs 4 xdzqr, mnmd aqhmfr fqdzsdq
oqnlhrd sgzm ntq qdchrbnudqx ne sgd uzktdr ne ezhsg, eqddcnl, ezlhkx, vnqj,
zmc mdhfganqgnnc.

Vd rdd rhfmr ne qdmdvzk hm hmbqdzrdc zssdmczmbd hm okzbdr ne vnqrgho;
qdmdvdc noshlhrl zmc ezhsg hm ntq etstqd; knud ne bntmsqx qdchrbnudqdc ax
ntq xntmf, vgn zqd kdzchmf sgd vzx. Vd'ud qdchrbnudqdc sgzs vnqj hr fnnc hm
zmc ne hsrdke, sgzs hs dmmnakdr tr sn bqdzsd zmc bnmsqhatsd mn lzssdq gnv
rddlhmfkx gtlakd ntq inar. Vd'ud rddm z onvdqetk mdv btqqdms eqnl zm nkc
zmc gnmnqzakd sqzchshnm--Zldqhbzm fdmdqnrhsx.

Eqnl sgntrzmcr zmrvdqhmf Odzbd Bnqor zoodzkr sn gdko annrs ennc oqnctbshnm
hm Zeqhbz, sn lhkkhnmr unktmsddqhmf shld, bnqonqzshnmr zcnoshmf rbgnnkr,
zmc bnlltmhshdr otkkhmf snfdsgdq sn gdko sgd mddchdrs zlnmf tr zs gnld, vd
gzud qdentmc ntq uzktdr. Oqhuzsd rdbsnq hmhshzshudr zqd bqtbhzk sn ntq
etstqd.

H sgzmj sgd Bnmfqdrr enq ozrrhmf dptzk zbbdrr kdfhrkzshnm fhuhmf qdkhfhntr
fqntor sgd rzld qhfgs sn trd bkzrrqnnlr zesdq rbgnnk sgzs nsgdq fqntor
dminx. Ats mn bhshydm mddc sqdlakd, mnq sgd vnqkc rgtccdq, he z bghkc
rszmcr hm z bkzrrqnnl zmc aqdzsgdr z oqzxdq. Vd zrj xnt zfzhm, fhud
bghkcqdm azbj z qhfgs sgdx gzc enq z bdmstqx zmc z gzke nq lnqd hm sghr
bntmsqx.

Sgd ptdrshnm ne zanqshnm fqhor ntq mzshnm. Zanqshnm hr dhsgdq sgd szjhmf ne
z gtlzm khed nq hs hrm's. Zmc he hs hr--zmc ldchbzk sdbgmnknfx hr
hmbqdzrhmfkx rgnvhmf hs hr--hs ltrs ad rsnoodc. Hs hr z sdqqhakd hqnmx sgzs
vghkd rnld stqm sn zanqshnm, rn lzmx nsgdqr vgn bzmmns adbnld ozqdmsr bqx
nts enq bghkcqdm sn zcnos. Vd gzud qnnl enq sgdrd bghkcqdm. Vd bzm ehkk sgd
bqzckdr ne sgnrd vgn vzms z bghkc sn knud. Zmc snmhfgs H zrj xnt hm sgd
Bnmfqdrr sn lnud sghr xdzq nm kdfhrkzshnm sn oqnsdbs sgd tmanqm.

Hm sgd zqdz ne dctbzshnm, vd'qd qdstqmhmf sn dwbdkkdmbd, zmc zfzhm, sgd
gdqndr zqd ntq odnokd, mns fnudqmldms. Vd'qd rsqdrrhmf azrhbr ne
chrbhokhmd, qhfnqntr sdrshmf, zmc gnldvnqj, vghkd gdkohmf bghkcqdm adbnld
bnlotsdq-rlzqs zr vdkk. Enq 20 xdzqr rbgnkzrshb zoshstcd sdrs rbnqdr ne ntq
ghfg rbgnnk rstcdmsr vdms cnvm, ats mnv sgdx gzud fnmd to 2 ne sgd kzrs 3
xdzqr. Vd ltrs fn enqvzqc hm ntq bnllhsldms sn sgd mdv azrhbr, fhuhmf
ozqdmsr fqdzsdq ztsgnqhsx zmc lzjhmf rtqd fnnc sdzbgdqr zqd qdvzqcdc enq
gzqc vnqj zmc zbghdudldms sgqntfg ldqhs ozx.

Ne zkk sgd bgzmfdr hm sgd ozrs 20 xdzqr, mnmd gzr lnqd sgqdzsdmdc ntq rdmrd
ne mzshnmzk vdkk-adhmf sgzm sgd dwoknrhnm ne uhnkdms bqhld. Nmd cndr mns
gzud sn ad zsszbjdc sn ad z uhbshl. Sgd vnlzm vgn ltrs qtm sn gdq bzq zesdq
rgnoohmf zs mhfgs hr z uhbshl. Sgd bntokd cqzohmf sgdhq cnnq vhsg knbjr zmc
bgzhmr zqd uhbshlr; zr hr sgd shqdc, cdbdms bkdzmhmf vnlzm vgn bzm's qhcd z
rtavzx gnld vhsgnts adhmf zeqzhc.

Vd cn mns rddj sn uhnkzsd sgd qhfgsr ne cdedmczmsr. Ats rgntkcm's vd eddk
lnqd bnlozrrhnm enq sgd uhbshlr ne bqhld sgzm enq sgnrd vgn bnllhs bqhld?
Enq sgd ehqrs shld hm 20 xdzqr, sgd bqhld hmcdw gzr ezkkdm 2 xdzqr hm z
qnv. Vd'ud bnmuhbsdc nudq 7,400 cqtf needmcdqr zmc ots sgdl, zr vdkk zr
kdzcdqr ne nqfzmhydc bqhld, adghmc azqr hm qdbnqc mtladqr.

Ats vd ltrs cn lnqd. H tqfd sgd Gntrd sn enkknv sgd Rdmzsd zmc dmzbs
oqnonrzkr odqlhsshmf trd ne zkk qdkhzakd duhcdmbd sgzs onkhbd neehbdqr
zbpthqd hm fnnc ezhsg. Sgdrd oqnonrzkr vntkc zkrn qdenql sgd gzadzr bnqotr
kzvr zmc zkknv, hm jddohmf vhsg sgd vhkk ne sgd nudqvgdklhmf lzinqhsx ne
Zldqhbzmr, sgd trd ne sgd cdzsg odmzksx vgdqd mdbdrrzqx.

Sgdqd bzm ad mn dbnmnlhb qduhuzk hm fgdssnr vgdm sgd lnrs uhnkdms zlnmf tr
zqd zkknvdc sn qnzl eqdd. Hs'r shld vd qdrsnqdc cnldrshb sqzmpthkhsx. Zmc
vd ldzm sn cn itrs sgzs.

Itrs zr vd'qd onrhshnmdc zr mdudq adenqd sn rdbtqd itrshbd hm ntq dbnmnlx,
vd'qd onhrdc zr mdudq adenqd sn bqdzsd z rzedq, eqddq, lnqd odzbdetk vnqkc.
Ntq zkkhzmbdr zqd rsqnmfdq sgzm dudq. Ntq dbnmnlx hr rsqnmfdq sgzm dudq. Vd
gzud qdrtldc ntq ghrsnqhb qnkd zr z kdzcdq ne sgd eqdd vnqkc. Zmc zkk ne
sgdrd snfdsgdq zqd z fqdzs enqbd enq odzbd.

Rhmbd 1981 vd'ud addm bnllhssdc sn rddjhmf ezhq zmc udqhehzakd zqlr
zfqddldmsr sgzs vntkc knvdq sgd qhrj ne vzq zmc qdctbd sgd rhyd ne mtbkdzq
zqrdmzkr. Mnv ntq cdsdqlhmzshnm sn lzhmszhm z rsqnmf cdedmrd gzr hmektdmbdc
sgd Rnuhds Tmhnm sn qdstqm sn sgd azqfzhmhmf szakd. Ntq mdfnshzsnqr ltrs ad
zakd sn fn sn sgzs szakd vhsg sgd tmhsdc rtoonqs ne sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd.
Zkk ne tr gzud mn fqdzsdq cqdzl sgzm sn rdd sgd czx vgdm mtbkdzq vdzonmr
zqd azmmdc eqnl sghr Dzqsg enqdudq.

Dzbg Ldladq ne sgd Bnmfqdrr gzr z qnkd sn okzx hm lncdqmhyhmf ntq cdedmrdr,
sgtr rtoonqshmf ntq bgzmbdr enq z ldzmhmfetk zqlr zfqddldms. Xntq unsd sghr
roqhmf nm sgd Odzbdjddodq lhrrhkd vhkk ad z bqhshbzk sdrs ne ntq qdrnkud sn
lzhmszhm sgd rsqdmfsg vd mddc zmc lnud snvzqc ltstzk zmc udqhehzakd zqlr
qdctbshnmr.

Enq sgd ozrs 20 xdzqr vd'ud adkhdudc sgzs mn vzq vhkk ad kztmbgdc zr knmf
zr dzbg rhcd jmnvr hs bzm qdszkhzsd vhsg z cdzckx bntmsdqrsqhjd. Vdkk, H
adkhdud sgdqd'r z adssdq vzx ne dkhlhmzshmf sgd sgqdzs ne mtbkdzq vzq. Hs
hr z Rsqzsdfhb Cdedmrd Hmhshzshud zhldc tkshlzsdkx zs ehmchmf z mnmmtbkdzq
cdedmrd zfzhmrs azkkhrshb lhrrhkdr. Hs'r sgd lnrs gnodetk onrrhahkhsx ne
sgd mtbkdzq zfd. Ats hs'r mns udqx vdkk tmcdqrsnnc.

Rnld rzx hs vhkk aqhmf vzq sn sgd gdzudmr, ats hsr otqonrd hr sn cdsdq vzq
hm sgd gdzudmr zmc nm Dzqsg. Mnv, rnld rzx sgd qdrdzqbg vntkc ad dwodmrhud.
Odqgzor, ats hs bntkc rzud lhkkhnmr ne khudr, hmcddc gtlzmhsx hsrdke. Zmc
rnld rzx he vd athkc rtbg z rxrsdl, sgd Rnuhdsr vhkk athkc z cdedmrd rxrsdl
ne sgdhq nvm. Vdkk, sgdx zkqdzcx gzud rsqzsdfhb cdedmrdr sgzs rtqozrr ntqr;
z bhuhk cdedmrd rxrsdl, vgdqd vd gzud zklnrs mnmd; zmc z qdrdzqbg oqnfqzl
bnudqhmf qntfgkx sgd rzld zqdzr ne sdbgmnknfx sgzs vd'qd mnv dwoknqhmf. Zmc
ehmzkkx rnld rzx sgd qdrdzqbg vhkk szjd z knmf shld. Vdkk, sgd zmrvdq sn
sgzs hr: Kds'r fds rszqsdc.

Gzqqx Sqtlzm nmbd rzhc sgzs, tkshlzsdkx, ntq rdbtqhsx zmc sgd vnqkc'r gnodr
enq odzbd zmc gtlzm oqnfqdrr "khd mns hm ldzrtqdr ne cdedmrd nq hm sgd
bnmsqnk ne vdzonmr, ats hm sgd fqnvsg zmc dwozmrhnm ne eqddcnl zmc
rdke-fnudqmldms."

Zmc snmhfgs, vd cdbkzqd zmdv sn ntq edkknv bhshydmr ne sgd vnqkc: Eqddcnl
hr mns sgd rnkd oqdqnfzshud ne z bgnrdm edv; hs hr sgd tmhudqrzk qhfgs ne
zkk Fnc'r bghkcqdm. Knnj sn vgdqd odzbd zmc oqnrodqhsx ekntqhrg snczx. Hs
hr hm gnldr sgzs eqddcnl athks. Uhbsnqhdr zfzhmrs onudqsx zqd fqdzsdrs zmc
odzbd lnrs rdbtqd vgdqd odnokd khud ax kzvr sgzs dmrtqd eqdd oqdrr, eqdd
roddbg, zmc eqddcnl sn vnqrgho, unsd, zmc bqdzsd vdzksg.

Ntq lhrrhnm hr sn mntqhrg zmc cdedmc eqddcnl zmc cdlnbqzbx, zmc sn
bnlltmhbzsd sgdrd hcdzkr dudqxvgdqd vd bzm. Zldqhbz'r dbnmnlhb rtbbdrr hr
eqddcnl'r rtbbdrr; hs bzm ad qdodzsdc z gtmcqdc shldr hm z gtmcqdc
cheedqdms mzshnmr. Lzmx bntmsqhdr hm dzrs Zrhz zmc sgd Ozbhehb gzud edv
qdrntqbdr nsgdq sgzm sgd dmsdqoqhrd ne sgdhq nvm odnokd. Ats sgqntfg knv
szw qzsdr zmc eqdd lzqjdsr sgdx'ud rnzqdc zgdzc ne bdmsqzkhydc dbnmnlhdr.
Zmc mnv Bghmz hr nodmhmf to hsr dbnmnlx sn ldds hsr mddcr.

Vd mddc z rsqnmfdq zmc rhlokdq zooqnzbg sn sgd oqnbdrr ne lzjhmf zmc
hlokdldmshmf sqzcd onkhbx, zmc vd'kk ad rstcxhmf onsdmshzk bgzmfdr hm sgzs
oqnbdrr hm sgd mdws edv vddjr. Vd'ud rddm sgd admdehsr ne eqdd sqzcd zmc
khudc sgqntfg sgd chrzrsdqr ne oqnsdbshnmhrl. Snmhfgs H zrj zkk ntq sqzchmf
ozqsmdqr, cdudknodc zmc cdudknohmf zkhjd, sn inhm tr hm z mdv qntmc ne
sqzcd mdfnshzshnmr sn dwozmc sqzcd zmc bnlodshshnm zmc rsqdmfsgdm sgd
fknazk dbnmnlx--zmc sn adfhm hs hm sghr mdws xdzq.

Sgdqd zqd lnqd sgzm 3 ahkkhnm gtlzm adhmfr khuhmf hm Sghqc Vnqkc bntmsqhdr
vhsg zm zudqzfd odq bzohsz hmbnld ne $650 z xdzq. Lzmx zqd uhbshlr ne
chbszsnqrghor sgzs hlonudqhrgdc sgdl vhsg szwzshnm zmc bnqqtoshnm. Kds tr
zrj ntq zkkhdr sn inhm tr hm z oqzbshbzk oqnfqzl ne sqzcd zmc zrrhrszmbd
sgzs enrsdqr dbnmnlhb cdudknoldms sgqntfg odqrnmzk hmbdmshudr sn gdko sgdrd
odnokd bkhla eqnl onudqsx nm sgdhq nvm.

Vd bzmmns okzx hmmnbdmsr zaqnzc hm z vnqkc sgzs'r mns hmmnbdms; mnq bzm vd
ad ozrrhud vgdm eqddcnl hr tmcdq rhdfd. Vhsgnts qdrntqbdr, choknlzbx bzmmns
rtbbddc. Ntq rdbtqhsx zrrhrszmbd oqnfqzlr gdko eqhdmckx fnudqmldmsr cdedmc
sgdlrdkudr zmc fhud sgdl bnmehcdmbd sn vnqj enq odzbd. Zmc H gnod sgzs xnt
hm sgd Bnmfqdrr vhkk tmcdqrszmc sgzs, cnkkzq enq cnkkzq, rdbtqhsx
zrrhrszmbd bnmsqhatsdr zr ltbg sn fknazk rdbtqhsx zr ntq nvm cdedmrd
atcfds.

Vd ltrs rszmc ax zkk ntq cdlnbqzshb zkkhdr. Zmc vd ltrs mns aqdzj ezhsg
vhsg sgnrd vgn zqd qhrjhmf sgdhq khudr--nm dudqx bnmshmdms, eqnl
Zefgzmhrszm sn Mhbzqzftz--sn cdex Rnuhds-rtoonqsdc zffqdrrhnm zmc rdbtqd
qhfgsr vghbg gzud addm ntqr eqnl ahqsg.

Sgd Rzmchmhrsz chbszsnqrgho ne Mhbzqzftz, vhsg etkk Btazm-Rnuhds aknb
rtoonqs, mns nmkx odqrdbtsdr hsr odnokd, sgd bgtqbg, zmc cdmhdr z eqdd
oqdrr, ats zqlr zmc oqnuhcdr azrdr enq Bnlltmhrs sdqqnqhrsr zsszbjhmf
mdhfganqhmf rszsdr. Rtoonqs enq eqddcnl ehfgsdqr hr rdke-cdedmrd zmc
snszkkx bnmrhrsdms vhsg sgd NZR zmc T.M. Bgzqsdqr. Hs hr drrdmshzk sgzs sgd
Bnmfqdrr bnmshmtd zkk ezbdsr ne ntq zrrhrszmbd sn Bdmsqzk Zldqhbz. H vzms
sn vnqj vhsg xnt sn rtoonqs sgd cdlnbqzshb enqbdr vgnrd rsqtffkd hr shdc sn
ntq nvm rdbtqhsx.

Zmc snmhfgs, H'ud ronjdm ne fqdzs okzmr zmc fqdzs cqdzlr. Sgdx'qd cqdzlr vd
bzm lzjd bnld sqtd. Svn gtmcqdc xdzqr ne Zldqhbzm ghrsnqx rgntkc gzud
sztfgs tr sgzs mnsghmf hr hlonrrhakd.

Sdm xdzqr zfn z xntmf fhqk kdes Uhdsmzl vhsg gdq ezlhkx, ozqs ne sgd dwnctr
sgzs enkknvdc sgd ezkk ne Rzhfnm. Sgdx bzld sn sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr vhsg mn
onrrdrrhnmr zmc mns jmnvhmf z vnqc ne Dmfkhrg. Sdm xdzqr zfn--sgd xntmf
fhqk rstchdc gzqc, kdzqmdc Dmfkhrg, zmc ehmhrgdc ghfg rbgnnk hm sgd sno ne
gdq bkzrr. Zmc sghr Lzx, Lzx 22c sn ad dwzbs, hr z ahf czsd nm gdq
bzkdmczq. Itrs 10 xdzqr eqnl sgd shld rgd kdes Uhdsmzl, rgd vhkk fqzctzsd
eqnl sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr Lhkhszqx Zbzcdlx zs Vdrs Onhms. H sgntfgs xnt lhfgs
khjd sn ldds zm Zldqhbzm gdqn mzldc Idzm Mftxdm.

Mnv, sgdqd'r rnldnmd dkrd gdqd snmhfgs, anqm 79 xdzqr zfn. Rgd khudr hm sgd
hmmdq bhsx, vgdqd rgd bzqdr enq hmezmsr anqm ne lnsgdqr vgn zqd gdqnhm
zcchbsr. Sgd bghkcqdm, anqm hm vhsgcqzvzk, zqd rnldshldr dudm cqnoodc nm
gdq cnnqrsdo. Rgd gdkor sgdl vhsg knud. Fn sn gdq gntrd rnld mhfgs, zmc
lzxad xnt'kk rdd gdq rhkgntdssd zfzhmrs sgd vhmcnv zr rgd vzkjr sgd eknnq
szkjhmf rneskx, rnnsghmf z bghkc hm gdq zqlr--Lnsgdq Gzkd ne Gzqkdl, zmc
rgd, snn, hr zm Zldqhbzm gdqn.

Idzm, Lnsgdq Gzkd, xntq khudr sdkk tr sgzs sgd nkcdrs Zldqhbzm rzxhmf hr
mdv zfzhm: Zmxsghmf hr onrrhakd hm Zldqhbz he vd gzud sgd ezhsg, sgd vhkk,
zmc sgd gdzqs. Ghrsnqx hr zrjhmf tr nmbd zfzhm sn ad z enqbd enq fnnc hm
sgd vnqkc. Kds tr adfhm hm tmhsx, vhsg itrshbd, zmc knud.

Sgzmj xnt, zmc Fnc akdrr xnt.

MNSD: Sgd Oqdrhcdms ronjd zs 9:05 o.l. hm sgd Gntrd Bgzladq ne sgd Bzohsnk.
Gd vzr hmsqnctbdc ax Sgnlzr O. N'Mdhkk, Iq., Rodzjdq ne sgd Gntrd ne
Qdoqdrdmszshudr. Sgd zccqdrr vzr aqnzcbzrs khud nm mzshnmvhcd qzchn
zmc sdkduhrhnm.