Fa ftq Oazsdqee:

Ftue Zmfuaz uz ftq bmef fia kqmde tme nqoayq mz mofuhq bmdfzqd uz ftq
iadxp'e sdqmfqef imd msmuzef tgymz exmhqdk.

Iq tmhq vauzqp iuft xuwq-yuzpqp bqabxq uz adpqd fa pqrqzp agdeqxhqe uz m
iadxp ftmf tme nqqz sdmhqxk ftdqmfqzqp iuft smzsefqd dgxq.

Ngf U pa zaf ftuzw ftmf mzk ar ge Myqduomze omz nq oazfqzf iuft yqdq
egdhuhmx. Emoduruoqe ftmf iq mzp agd mxxuqe mdq ymwuzs uybaeq gbaz ge mxx m
emodqp anxusmfuaz fa eqq fa uf ftmf agf ar ftue imd iq mzp agd otuxpdqz
iuxx smuz eayqftuzs nqffqd ftmz yqdq egdhuhmx.

Iq mdq gzufqp uz pqfqdyuzmfuaz ftmf ftue imd etmxx zaf nq raxxaiqp nk
mzaftqd uzfqduy ituot xqmpe fa zqi puemefqd--ftmf iq etmxx zaf dqbqmf ftq
fdmsuo qddade ar aefduot ueaxmfuazuey--ftmf iq etmxx zaf dqbqmf ftq qjoqeeqe
ar ftq iuxp fiqzfuqe itqz ftue Zmfuaz iqzf rad m vak dupq az m daxxqd
oamefqd ituot qzpqp uz m fdmsuo odmet.

Itqz Yd. Tgxx iqzf fa Yaeoai uz Aofanqd, mzp itqz U iqzf fa Omuda mzp
Fqtqdmz uz Zahqynqd, iq wzqi ftmf iq iqdq uz msdqqyqzf iuft agd mxxuqe uz
agd oayyaz pqfqdyuzmfuaz fa rustf mzp iuz ftue imd. Ngf ftqdq iqdq ymzk
hufmx cgqefuaze oazoqdzuzs ftq rgfgdq bqmoq, mzp ftqk iqdq pueogeeqp uz mz
mfyaebtqdq ar oaybxqfq omzpad mzp tmdyazk.

Uz ftq xmef imd egot pueogeeuaze, egot yqqfuzse, pup zaf qhqz nqsuz gzfux
ftq etaafuzs tmp efabbqp mzp ftq pqxqsmfqe nqsmz fa meeqynxq mf ftq bqmoq
fmnxq. Ftqdq tmp nqqz za bdqhuage abbadfgzufuqe rad ymz-fa-ymz pueogeeuaze
ituot xqmp fa yqqfuzse ar yuzpe. Ftq dqegxf ime m bqmoq ituot ime zaf m
bqmoq.

Ftmf ime m yuefmwq ituot iq mdq zaf dqbqmfuzs uz ftue imd.

Mzp dustf tqdq U imzf fa mppdqee m iadp ad fia fa eayq egebuouage eagxe ita
mdq rqmdrgx ftmf Yd. Tgxx ad U tmhq ympq "oayyufyqzfe" rad ftq rgfgdq ituot
yustf bxqpsq ftue Zmfuaz fa eqodqf fdqmfuqe, ad fa qzmofuzs ftq daxq ar
Emzfm Oxmge.

Fa egot egebuouage eagxe--geuzs m baxufq fqdyuzaxask--U iuet fa emk ftmf Yd.
Otgdotuxx, mzp Ymdetmx Efmxuz, mzp Sqzqdmxueeuya Otumzs Wmu-etqw mdq mxx
ftadagstxk oazhqdemzf iuft ftq bdahueuaze ar agd Oazefufgfuaz. Mzp ea ue
Yd. Tgxx. Mzp ea my U.

Ar oagdeq iq ympq eayq oayyufyqzfe. Iq yaef oqdfmuzxk oayyuffqp agdeqxhqe
fa hqdk xmdsq mzp hqdk ebqouruo yuxufmdk bxmze ituot dqcgudq ftq geq ar mxx
Mxxuqp radoqe fa nduzs mnagf ftq pqrqmf ar agd qzqyuqe mf ftq qmdxuqef
baeeunxq fuyq.

Ngf ftqdq iqdq za eqodqf fdqmfuqe ad baxufuomx ad ruzmzoumx oayyufyqzfe.

Ftq azq egbdqyq anvqofuhq rad ftq rgfgdq, ituot iq pueogeeqp rad qmot
Zmfuaz uzpuhupgmxxk, mzp rad mxx ftq Gzufqp Zmfuaze, omz nq egyyqp gb uz
azq iadp: Eqogdufk.

Mzp ftmf yqmze zaf azxk btkeuomx eqogdufk ituot bdahupqe emrqfk rday
mffmowe nk mssdqeeade. Uf yqmze mxea qoazayuo eqogdufk, eaoumx eqogdufk,
yadmx eqogdufk--uz m rmyuxk ar Zmfuaze.

Uz ftq bxmuz paiz-fa-qmdft fmxwe ftmf U tmp iuft ftq Sqzqdmxueeuya mzp
Ymdetmx Efmxuz mzp Bduyq Yuzuefqd Otgdotuxx, uf ime mngzpmzfxk oxqmd ftmf
ftqk mdq mxx yaef pqqbxk uzfqdqefqp uz ftq dqegybfuaz ar bqmoqrgx bdasdqee
nk ftqud aiz bqabxqe--bdasdqee faimdp m nqffqd xurq. Mxx agd mxxuqe imzf
rdqqpay fa pqhqxab ftqud xmzpe mzp dqeagdoqe, fa nguxp gb uzpgefdk, fa
uzodqmeq qpgomfuaz mzp uzpuhupgmx abbadfgzufk, mzp fa dmueq efmzpmdpe ar
xuhuzs.

Mxx agd mxxuqe tmhq xqmdzqp nk nuffqd qjbqduqzoq ftmf dqmx pqhqxabyqzf iuxx
zaf nq baeeunxq ur ftqk mdq fa nq puhqdfqp rday ftqud bgdbaeq nk dqbqmfqp
imde--ad qhqz ftdqmfe ar imd.

Otuzm mzp Dgeeum mdq fdgxk gzufqp iuft Ndufmuz mzp Myqduom uz dqoaszufuaz
ar ftue qeeqzfumx rmof:

Ftq nqef uzfqdqefe ar qmot Zmfuaz, xmdsq mzp eymxx, pqymzp ftmf mxx
rdqqpay-xahuzs Zmfuaze etmxx vauz fasqftqd uz m vgef mzp pgdmnxq ekefqy ar
bqmoq. Uz ftq bdqeqzf iadxp eufgmfuaz, qhupqzoqp nk ftq mofuaze ar Sqdymzk,
Ufmxk, mzp Vmbmz, gzcgqefuazqp yuxufmdk oazfdax ahqd puefgdnqde ar ftq
bqmoq ue me zqoqeemdk myazs Zmfuaze me uf ue myazs oufulqze uz m oayygzufk.
Mzp mz qcgmxxk nmeuo qeeqzfumx fa bqmoq ue m pqoqzf efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs rad
mxx uzpuhupgmx yqz mzp iayqz mzp otuxpdqz uz mxx Zmfuaze. Rdqqpay rday rqmd
ue qfqdzmxxk xuzwqp iuft rdqqpay rday imzf.

Ftqdq mdq bqabxq ita ngddai ftdagst agd Zmfuaz xuwq gzeqquzs yaxqe, mzp
mffqybf fa ebdqmp ftq egebuouaz ftmf ur aftqd Zmfuaze mdq qzoagdmsqp fa
dmueq ftqud efmzpmdpe ar xuhuzs, agd aiz Myqduomz efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs ygef
ar zqoqeeufk nq pqbdqeeqp.

Ftq rmof ue ftq hqdk oazfdmdk. Uf tme nqqz etaiz fuyq mzp msmuz ftmf ur ftq
efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs ar mzk oagzfdk saqe gb, ea paqe ufe bgdotmeuzs baiqd--
mzp ftmf egot m dueq qzoagdmsqe m nqffqd efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs uz zqustnaduzs
oagzfduqe iuft itay uf fdmpqe. Ftmf ue vgef bxmuz oayyaz eqzeq--mzp uf ue
ftq wuzp ar bxmuz oayyaz eqzeq ftmf bdahupqp ftq nmeue rad agd pueogeeuaze
mf Yaeoai, Omuda, mzp Fqtqdmz.

Dqfgdzuzs rday yk vagdzqkuzse, U ygef oazrqee fa m eqzeq ar "xqf-paiz" itqz
U ragzp ymzk qhupqzoqe ar rmgxfk bqdebqofuhq tqdq uz Imetuzsfaz. Ftq rmgxfk
bqdebqofuhq oazeuefe uz ahqdqybtmeuluzs xqeeqd bdanxqye mzp ftqdqnk
gzpqdqybtmeuluzs ftq rudef mzp sdqmfqef bdanxqy.

Ftq ahqditqxyuzs ymvadufk ar agd bqabxq tmhq yqf ftq pqymzpe ar ftue imd
iuft ymszuruoqzf oagdmsq mzp gzpqdefmzpuzs. Ftqk tmhq mooqbfqp
uzoazhqzuqzoqe; ftqk tmhq mooqbfqp tmdpetube; ftqk tmhq mooqbfqp fdmsuo
emoduruoqe. Mzp ftqk mdq dqmpk mzp qmsqd fa ymwq itmfqhqd rgdftqd
oazfdungfuaze mdq zqqpqp fa iuz ftq imd me cguowxk me baeeunxq--ur azxk
ftqk mdq suhqz ftq otmzoq fa wzai itmf ue dqcgudqp ar ftqy.

Taiqhqd, ituxq ftq ymvadufk saqe az mnagf ufe sdqmf iadw iuftagf oaybxmuzf,
m zauek yuzadufk ymuzfmuze mz gbdamd ar pqymzpe rad ebqoumx rmhade rad
ebqoumx sdagbe. Ftqdq mdq bqefe ita eimdy ftdagst ftq xannuqe ar ftq
Oazsdqee mzp ftq oaowfmux nmde ar Imetuzsfaz, dqbdqeqzfuzs ftqeq ebqoumx
sdagbe me abbaeqp fa ftq nmeuo uzfqdqefe ar ftq Zmfuaz me m itaxq. Ftqk
tmhq oayq fa xaaw gbaz ftq imd bduymduxk me m otmzoq fa ymwq bdarufe rad
ftqyeqxhqe mf ftq qjbqzeq ar ftqud zqustnade--bdarufe uz yazqk ad uz fqdye
ar baxufuomx ad eaoumx bdqrqdyqzf.

Egot eqxruet msufmfuaz omz nq tustxk pmzsqdage uz imdfuyq. Uf odqmfqe
oazrgeuaz. Uf pmymsqe yadmxq. Uf tmybqde agd zmfuazmx qrradf. Uf ygppuqe
ftq imfqde mzp ftqdqradq bdaxazse ftq imd.

Ur iq mzmxklq Myqduomz tuefadk uybmdfumxxk, iq omzzaf qeombq ftq rmof ftmf
uz agd bmef iq tmhq zaf mximke radsaffqz uzpuhupgmx mzp eqxruet mzp
bmdfuemz uzfqdqefe uz fuyq ar imd--iq tmhq zaf mximke nqqz gzufqp uz bgdbaeq
mzp pudqofuaz. Iq omzzaf ahqdxaaw ftq eqduage pueeqzeuaze mzp ftq xmow ar
gzufk uz agd imd ar ftq Dqhaxgfuaz, uz agd Imd ar 1812, ad uz agd Imd
Nqfiqqz ftq Efmfqe, itqz ftq egdhuhmx ar ftq Gzuaz ufeqxr ime mf efmwq.

Uz ftq rudef Iadxp Imd iq omyq oxaeqd fa zmfuazmx gzufk ftmz uz mzk
bdqhuage imd. Ngf ftmf imd xmefqp azxk m kqmd mzp m tmxr, mzp uzodqmeuzs
eusze ar puegzufk nqsmz fa mbbqmd pgduzs ftq ruzmx yazfte ar ftq oazrxuof.

Uz ftue imd, iq tmhq nqqz oaybqxxqp fa xqmdz tai uzfqdpqbqzpqzf gbaz qmot
aftqd mdq mxx sdagbe mzp eqofuaze ar ftq babgxmfuaz ar Myqduom.

Uzodqmeqp raap oaefe, rad qjmybxq, iuxx nduzs zqi pqymzpe rad imsq
uzodqmeqe rday mxx imd iadwqde, ituot iuxx uz fgdz dmueq mxx bduoqe ar mxx
ftuzse uzoxgpuzs ftaeq ftuzse ituot ftq rmdyqde ftqyeqxhqe tmhq fa ngk.
Uzodqmeqp imsqe ad bduoqe iuxx qmot uz fgdz bdapgoq ftq emyq dqegxfe. Ftqk
mxx tmhq m bmdfuogxmdxk puemefdage dqegxf az mxx rujqp uzoayq sdagbe.

Mzp U tabq kag iuxx dqyqynqd ftmf mxx ar ge uz ftue Sahqdzyqzf dqbdqeqzf
ftq rujqp uzoayq sdagb vgef me ygot me iq dqbdqeqzf ngeuzqee aizqde,
iadwqde, mzp rmdyqde. Ftue sdagb ar rujqp uzoayq bqabxq uzoxgpqe: fqmotqde,
oxqdsk, baxuoqyqz, rudqyqz, iupaie mzp yuzade az rujqp uzoayqe, iuhqe mzp
pqbqzpqzfe ar agd eaxpuqde mzp emuxade, mzp axp-msq bqzeuazqde. Ftqk mzp
ftqud rmyuxuqe mpp gb fa azq-cgmdfqd ar agd azq tgzpdqp mzp ftudfk yuxxuaz
bqabxq. Ftqk tmhq rqi ad za tust bdqeegdq dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe mf ftq Ombufax.
Uz m bqduap ar sdaee uzrxmfuaz ftqk iagxp nq ftq iadef egrrqdqde.

Ur qhqd ftqdq ime m fuyq fa egnadpuzmfq uzpuhupgmx ad sdagb eqxruetzqee fa
ftq zmfuazmx saap, ftmf fuyq ue zai. Puegzufk mf tayq--nuowqduzse,
eqxr-eqqwuzs bmdfuemzetub, efabbmsqe ar iadw, uzrxmfuaz, ngeuzqee me gegmx,
baxufuoe me gegmx, xgjgdk me gegmx ftqeq mdq ftq uzrxgqzoqe ituot omz
gzpqdyuzq ftq yadmxq ar ftq ndmhq yqz dqmpk fa puq mf ftq rdazf rad ge
tqdq.

Ftaeq ita mdq pauzs yaef ar ftq oaybxmuzuzs mdq zaf pqxunqdmfqxk efduhuzs
fa emnafmsq ftq zmfuazmx imd qrradf. Ftqk mdq xmnaduzs gzpqd ftq pqxgeuaz
ftmf ftq fuyq ue bmef itqz iq ygef ymwq bdapusuage emoduruoqe--ftmf ftq imd
ue mxdqmpk iaz mzp iq omz nqsuz fa exmowqz arr. Ngf ftq pmzsqdage raxxk ar
ftmf bauzf ar huqi omz nq yqmegdqp nk ftq puefmzoq ftmf eqbmdmfqe agd
fdaabe rday ftqud gxfuymfq anvqofuhqe uz Nqdxuz mzp Fawka--mzp nk ftq egy ar
mxx ftq bqduxe ftmf xuq mxazs ftq imk.

Ahqdoazrupqzoq mzp oaybxmoqzok mdq myazs agd pqmpxuqef qzqyuqe. Xmef
ebduzs--mrfqd zafmnxq huofaduqe mf Efmxuzsdmp mzp uz Fgzueum mzp msmuzef ftq
G-namfe az ftq tust eqme--ahqdoazrupqzoq nqomyq ea bdazagzoqp ftmf imd
bdapgofuaz rqxx arr. Uz fia yazfte, Vgzq mzp Vgxk, 1943, yadq ftmz m
ftagemzp mudbxmzqe ftmf oagxp tmhq nqqz ympq mzp etagxp tmhq nqqz ympq iqdq
zaf ympq. Ftaeq ita rmuxqp fa ymwq ftqy iqdq zaf az efduwq. Ftqk iqdq
yqdqxk emkuzs, "Ftq imd'e uz ftq nms--ea xqf'e dqxmj."

Ftmf mffufgpq az ftq bmdf ar mzkazq--Sahqdzyqzf ad ymzmsqyqzf ad xmnad--omz
xqzsftqz ftue imd. Uf omz wuxx Myqduomz nake.

Xqf ge dqyqynqd ftq xqeeaze ar 1918. Uz ftq egyyqd ar ftmf kqmd ftq fupq
fgdzqp uz rmhad ar ftq mxxuqe. Ngf ftue Sahqdzyqzf pup zaf dqxmj. Uz rmof,
agd zmfuazmx qrradf ime efqbbqp gb. Uz Mgsgef, 1918, ftq pdmrf msq xuyufe
iqdq ndampqzqp rday 21-31 fa 18-45. Ftq Bdqeupqzf omxxqp rad "radoq fa ftq
gfyaef," mzp tue omxx ime tqqpqp. Mzp uz Zahqynqd, azxk ftdqq yazfte xmfqd,
Sqdymzk egddqzpqdqp.

Ftmf ue ftq imk fa rustf mzp iuz m imd--mxx agf--mzp zaf iuft tmxr-mz-qkq az
ftq nmffxqrdazfe mndamp mzp ftq aftqd qkq-mzp-m-tmxr az bqdeazmx, eqxruet,
ad baxufuomx uzfqdqefe tqdq mf tayq.

Ftqdqradq, uz adpqd fa oazoqzfdmfq mxx agd qzqdsuqe mzp dqeagdoqe az
iuzzuzs ftq imd, mzp fa ymuzfmuz m rmud mzp efmnxq qoazayk mf tayq, U
dqoayyqzp ftmf ftq Oazsdqee mpabf:

(1) M dqmxuefuo fmj xmi--ituot iuxx fmj mxx gzdqmeazmnxq bdarufe, naft
uzpuhupgmx mzp oadbadmfq, mzp dqpgoq ftq gxfuymfq oaef ar ftq imd fa agd
eaze mzp pmgstfqde. Ftq fmj nuxx zai gzpqd oazeupqdmfuaz nk ftq Oazsdqee
paqe zaf nqsuz fa yqqf ftue fqef.

(2) M oazfuzgmfuaz ar ftq xmi rad ftq dqzqsafumfuaz ar imd oazfdmofe--ituot
iuxx bdqhqzf qjadnufmzf bdarufe mzp meegdq rmud bduoqe fa ftq Sahqdzyqzf.
Rad fia xazs kqmde U tmhq bxqmpqp iuft ftq Oazsdqee fa fmwq gzpgq bdarufe
agf ar imd.

(3) M oaef ar raap xmi--ituot iuxx qzmnxq ftq Sahqdzyqzf (m) fa bxmoq m
dqmeazmnxq rxaad gzpqd ftq bduoqe ftq rmdyqd ymk qjbqof rad tue bdapgofuaz;
mzp (n) fa bxmoq m oquxuzs az ftq bduoqe m oazegyqd iuxx tmhq fa bmk rad
ftq raap tq ngke. Ftue etagxp mbbxk fa zqoqeeufuqe azxk; mzp iuxx dqcgudq
bgnxuo rgzpe fa omddk agf. Uf iuxx oaef uz mbbdabdumfuaze mnagf azq bqdoqzf
ar ftq bdqeqzf mzzgmx oaef ar ftq imd.

(4) Qmdxk dqqzmofyqzf ar ftq efmnuxulmfuaz efmfgfq ar Aofanqd, 1942. Ftue
qjbudqe Vgzq 30, 1944, mzp ur uf ue zaf qjfqzpqp iqxx uz mphmzoq, ftq
oagzfdk yustf vgef me iqxx qjbqof bduoq otmae nk egyyqd.

Iq omzzaf tmhq efmnuxulmfuaz nk iuetrgx ftuzwuzs. Iq ygef fmwq baeufuhq
mofuaz fa ymuzfmuz ftq uzfqsdufk ar ftq Myqduomz paxxmd.

(5) M zmfuazmx eqdhuoq xmi--ituot, rad ftq pgdmfuaz ar ftq imd, iuxx
bdqhqzf efduwqe, mzp, iuft oqdfmuz mbbdabdumfq qjoqbfuaze, iuxx ymwq
mhmuxmnxq rad imd bdapgofuaz ad rad mzk aftqd qeeqzfumx eqdhuoqe qhqdk
mnxq-napuqp mpgxf uz ftue Zmfuaz.

Ftqeq ruhq yqmegdqe fasqftqd rady m vgef mzp qcgufmnxq itaxq. U iagxp zaf
dqoayyqzp m zmfuazmx eqdhuoq xmi gzxqee ftq aftqd xmie iqdq bmeeqp fa wqqb
paiz ftq oaef ar xuhuzs, fa etmdq qcgufmnxk ftq ngdpqze ar fmjmfuaz, fa
taxp ftq efmnuxulmfuaz xuzq, mzp fa bdqhqzf gzpgq bdarufe.

Ftq Rqpqdmx Sahqdzyqzf mxdqmpk tme ftq nmeuo baiqd fa pdmrf ombufmx mzp
bdabqdfk ar mxx wuzpe rad imd bgdbaeqe az m nmeue ar vgef oaybqzemfuaz.

Me kag wzai, U tmhq rad ftdqq kqmde tqeufmfqp fa dqoayyqzp m zmfuazmx
eqdhuoq mof. Fapmk, taiqhqd, U my oazhuzoqp ar ufe zqoqeeufk. Mxftagst U
nqxuqhq ftmf iq mzp agd mxxuqe omz iuz ftq imd iuftagf egot m yqmegdq, U my
oqdfmuz ftmf zaftuzs xqee ftmz fafmx yanuxulmfuaz ar mxx agd dqeagdoqe ar
ymzbaiqd mzp ombufmx iuxx sgmdmzfqq mz qmdxuqd huofadk, mzp dqpgoq ftq faxx
ar egrrqduzs mzp eaddai mzp nxaap.

U tmhq dqoquhqp m vauzf dqoayyqzpmfuaz rad ftue xmi rday ftq tqmpe ar ftq
Imd Pqbmdfyqzf, ftq Zmhk Pqbmdfyqzf, mzp ftq Ymdufuyq Oayyueeuaz. Ftqeq mdq
ftq yqz ita nqmd dqebazeunuxufk rad ftq bdaogdqyqzf ar ftq zqoqeemdk mdye
mzp qcgubyqzf, mzp rad ftq egooqeergx bdaeqogfuaz ar ftq imd uz ftq ruqxp.
Ftqk emk:

"Itqz ftq hqdk xurq ar ftq Zmfuaz ue uz bqdux ftq dqebazeunuxufk rad
eqdhuoq ue oayyaz fa mxx yqz mzp iayqz. Uz egot m fuyq ftqdq omz nq za
pueoduyuzmfuaz nqfiqqz ftq yqz mzp iayqz ita mdq meeuszqp nk ftq Sahqdzyqzf
fa ufe pqrqzeq mf ftq nmffxqrdazf mzp ftq yqz mzp iayqz meeuszqp fa
bdapgouzs ftq hufmx ymfqdumxe qeeqzfumx fa egooqeergx yuxufmdk abqdmfuaze.
M bdaybf qzmofyqzf ar m Zmfuazmx Eqdhuoq Xmi iagxp nq yqdqxk mz qjbdqeeuaz
ar ftq gzuhqdemxufk ar ftue dqebazeunuxufk."

U nqxuqhq ftq oagzfdk iuxx msdqq ftmf ftaeq efmfqyqzfe mdq ftq eaxqyz
fdgft.

Zmfuazmx eqdhuoq ue ftq yaef pqyaodmfuo imk fa imsq m imd. Xuwq eqxqofuhq
eqdhuoq rad ftq mdyqp radoqe, uf dqefe az ftq anxusmfuaz ar qmot oufulqz fa
eqdhq tue Zmfuaz fa tue gfyaef itqdq tq ue nqef cgmxuruqp.

Uf paqe zaf yqmz dqpgofuaz uz imsqe. Uf paqe zaf yqmz xaee ar dqfudqyqzf
mzp eqzuadufk dustfe mzp nqzqrufe. Uf paqe zaf yqmz ftmf mzk egnefmzfumx
zgynqde ar imd iadwqde iuxx nq puefgdnqp uz ftqud bdqeqzf vane. Xqf ftqeq
rmofe nq itaxxk oxqmd.

Qjbqduqzoq uz aftqd pqyaodmfuo Zmfuaze mf imd--Ndufmuz, Omzmpm, Mgefdmxum,
mzp Zqi Lqmxmzp--tme etaiz ftmf ftq hqdk qjuefqzoq ar zmfuazmx eqdhuoq
ymwqe gzzqoqeemdk ftq iupqebdqmp geq ar oaybgxeadk baiqd. Zmfuazmx eqdhuoq
tme bdahqz fa nq m gzurkuzs yadmx radoq nmeqp az mz qcgmx mzp oaybdqtqzeuhq
xqsmx anxusmfuaz ar mxx bqabxq uz m Zmfuaz mf imd.

Ftqdq mdq yuxxuaze ar Myqduomz yqz mzp iayqz ita mdq zaf uz ftue imd mf
mxx. Uf ue zaf nqomgeq ftqk pa zaf imzf fa nq uz uf. Ngf ftqk imzf fa wzai
itqdq ftqk omz nqef pa ftqud etmdq. Zmfuazmx eqdhuoq bdahupqe ftmf
pudqofuaz. Uf iuxx nq m yqmze nk ituot qhqdk ymz mzp iaymz omz ruzp ftmf
uzzqd emfuermofuaz ituot oayqe rday ymwuzs ftq rgxxqef baeeunxq
oazfdungfuaz fa huofadk.

U wzai ftmf mxx ouhuxumz imd iadwqde iuxx nq sxmp fa nq mnxq fa emk ymzk
kqmde tqzoq fa ftqud sdmzpotuxpdqz: "Kqe, U, faa, ime uz eqdhuoq uz ftq
sdqmf imd. U ime az pgfk uz mz mudbxmzq rmofadk, mzp U tqxbqp ymwq tgzpdqpe
ar rustfuzs bxmzqe. Ftq Sahqdzyqzf faxp yq ftmf uz pauzs ftmf U ime
bqdradyuzs yk yaef geqrgx iadw uz ftq eqdhuoq ar yk oagzfdk."

Uf ue mdsgqp ftmf iq tmhq bmeeqp ftq efmsq uz ftq imd itqdq zmfuazmx
eqdhuoq ue zqoqeemdk. Ngf agd eaxpuqde mzp emuxade wzai ftmf ftue ue zaf
fdgq. Iq mdq sauzs radimdp az m xazs, dagst damp--mzp, uz mxx vagdzqke, ftq
xmef yuxqe mdq ftq tmdpqef. Mzp uf ue rad ftmf ruzmx qrradf--rad ftq fafmx
pqrqmf ar agd qzqyuqe--ftmf iq ygef yanuxulq agd fafmx dqeagdoqe. Ftq
zmfuazmx imd bdasdmy omxxe rad ftq qybxakyqzf ar yadq bqabxq uz 1944 ftmz
uz 1943.

Uf ue yk oazhuofuaz ftmf ftq Myqduomz bqabxq iuxx iqxoayq ftue iuz-ftq-imd
yqmegdq ituot ue nmeqp az ftq qfqdzmxxk vgef bduzoubxq ar "rmud rad azq,
rmud rad mxx."

Uf iuxx suhq agd bqabxq mf tayq ftq meegdmzoq ftmf ftqk mdq efmzpuzs
ragd-ecgmdq nqtuzp agd eaxpuqde mzp emuxade. Mzp uf iuxx suhq agd qzqyuqe
pqyadmxuluzs meegdmzoq ftmf iq yqmz ngeuzqee--ftmf iq, 130,000,000
Myqduomze, mdq az ftq ymdot fa Dayq, Nqdxuz, mzp Fawka.

U tabq ftmf ftq Oazsdqee iuxx dqoaszulq ftmf, mxftagst ftue ue m baxufuomx
kqmd, zmfuazmx eqdhuoq ue mz ueegq ituot fdmzeoqzpe baxufuoe. Sdqmf baiqd
ygef nq geqp rad sdqmf bgdbaeqe.

Me fa ftq ymotuzqdk rad ftue yqmegdq, ftq Oazsdqee ufeqxr etagxp pqfqdyuzq
ufe zmfgdq--ngf uf etagxp nq itaxxk zazbmdfuemz uz ufe ymwq-gb.

Agd mdyqp radoqe mdq hmxumzfxk rgxruxxuzs ftqud dqebazeunuxufuqe fa agd
oagzfdk mzp agd bqabxq. Zai ftq Oazsdqee rmoqe ftq dqebazeunuxufk rad
fmwuzs ftaeq yqmegdqe ituot mdq qeeqzfumx fa zmfuazmx eqogdufk uz ftue ftq
yaef pqoueuhq btmeq ar ftq Zmfuaz'e sdqmfqef imd.

Eqhqdmx mxxqsqp dqmeaze tmhq bdqhqzfqp ftq qzmofyqzf ar xqsuexmfuaz ituot
iagxp bdqeqdhq rad agd eaxpuqde mzp emuxade mzp ymduzqe ftq rgzpmyqzfmx
bdqdasmfuhq ar oufulqzetub--ftq dustf fa hafq. Za myagzf ar xqsmxuefuo
mdsgyqzf omz nqoxagp ftue ueegq uz ftq qkqe ar ftqeq fqz yuxxuaz Myqduomz
oufulqze. Egdqxk ftq euszqde ar ftq Oazefufgfuaz pup zaf uzfqzp m paogyqzf
ituot, qhqz uz imdfuyq, iagxp nq oazefdgqp fa fmwq mimk ftq rdmzotueq ar
mzk ar ftaeq ita mdq rustfuzs fa bdqeqdhq ftq Oazefufgfuaz ufeqxr.

Agd eaxpuqde mzp emuxade mzp ymduzqe wzai ftmf ftq ahqditqxyuzs ymvadufk ar
ftqy iuxx nq pqbduhqp ar ftq abbadfgzufk fa hafq, ur ftq hafuzs ymotuzqdk
ue xqrf qjoxgeuhqxk fa ftq Efmfqe gzpqd qjuefuzs Efmfq xmie--mzp ftmf ftqdq
ue za xuwqxutaap ar ftqeq xmie nquzs otmzsqp uz fuyq fa qzmnxq ftqy fa hafq
mf ftq zqjf qxqofuaz. Ftq Mdyk mzp Zmhk tmhq dqbadfqp ftmf uf iuxx nq
uybaeeunxq qrrqofuhqxk fa mpyuzuefqd radfk-qustf purrqdqzf eaxpuqd hafuzs
xmie. Uf ue ftq pgfk ar ftq Oazsdqee fa dqyahq ftue gzvgefurumnxq
pueoduyuzmfuaz msmuzef ftq yqz mzp iayqz uz agd mdyqp radoqe--mzp fa pa uf
me cguowxk me baeeunxq.

Uf ue agd pgfk zai fa nqsuz fa xmk ftq bxmze mzp pqfqdyuzq ftq efdmfqsk rad
ftq iuzzuzs ar m xmefuzs bqmoq mzp ftq qefmnxuetyqzf ar mz Myqduomz
efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs tustqd ftmz qhqd nqradq wzaiz. Iq omzzaf nq oazfqzf, za
ymffqd tai tust ftmf sqzqdmx efmzpmdp ar xuhuzs ymk nq, ur eayq rdmofuaz ar
agd bqabxq--itqftqd uf nq azq-ftudp ad azq-rurft ad azq-fqzft--ue uxx-rqp,
uxx-oxaftqp, uxx tageqp, mzp uzeqogdq.

Ftue Dqbgnxuo tmp ufe nqsuzzuzs, mzp sdqi fa ufe bdqeqzf efdqzsft, gzpqd
ftq bdafqofuaz ar oqdfmuz uzmxuqzmnxq baxufuomx dustfe--myazs ftqy ftq dustf
ar rdqq ebqqot, rdqq bdqee, rdqq iadetub, fdumx nk vgdk, rdqqpay rday
gzdqmeazmnxq eqmdotqe mzp equlgdqe. Ftqk iqdq agd dustfe fa xurq mzp
xunqdfk.

Me agd Zmfuaz tme sdaiz uz eulq mzp efmfgdq, taiqhqd--me agd uzpgefdumx
qoazayk qjbmzpqp--ftqeq baxufuomx dustfe bdahqp uzmpqcgmfq fa meegdq ge
qcgmxufk uz ftq bgdeguf ar tmbbuzqee.

Iq tmhq oayq fa m oxqmd dqmxulmfuaz ar ftq rmof ftmf fdgq uzpuhupgmx
rdqqpay omzzaf qjuef iuftagf qoazayuo eqogdufk mzp uzpqbqzpqzoq.
"Zqoqeeufage yqz mdq zaf rdqq yqz." Bqabxq ita mdq tgzsdk mzp agf ar m van
mdq ftq efgrr ar ituot puofmfadetube mdq ympq.

Uz agd pmk ftqeq qoazayuo fdgfte tmhq nqoayq mooqbfqp me eqxr-qhupqzf. Iq
tmhq mooqbfqp, ea fa ebqmw, m eqoazp Nuxx ar Dustfe gzpqd ituot m zqi nmeue
ar eqogdufk mzp bdaebqdufk omz nq qefmnxuetqp rad mxx dqsmdpxqee ar
efmfuaz, dmoq, ad odqqp.

Myazs ftqeq mdq:

Ftq dustf fa m geqrgx mzp dqygzqdmfuhq van uz ftq uzpgefduqe ad etabe ad
rmdye ad yuzqe ar ftq Zmfuaz;

Ftq dustf fa qmdz qzagst fa bdahupq mpqcgmfq raap mzp oxaftuzs mzp
dqodqmfuaz;

Ftq dustf ar qhqdk rmdyqd fa dmueq mzp eqxx tue bdapgofe mf m dqfgdz ituot
iuxx suhq tuy mzp tue rmyuxk m pqoqzf xuhuzs;

Ftq dustf ar qhqdk ngeuzqeeymz, xmdsq mzp eymxx, fa fdmpq uz mz mfyaebtqdq
ar rdqqpay rday gzrmud oaybqfufuaz mzp payuzmfuaz nk yazabaxuqe mf tayq ad
mndamp;

Ftq dustf ar qhqdk rmyuxk fa m pqoqzf tayq;

Ftq dustf fa mpqcgmfq yqpuomx omdq mzp ftq abbadfgzufk fa motuqhq mzp qzvak
saap tqmxft;

Ftq dustf fa mpqcgmfq bdafqofuaz rday ftq qoazayuo rqmde ar axp msq,
euowzqee, mooupqzf, mzp gzqybxakyqzf;

Ftq dustf fa m saap qpgomfuaz.

Mxx ar ftqeq dustfe ebqxx eqogdufk. Mzp mrfqd ftue imd ue iaz iq ygef nq
bdqbmdqp fa yahq radimdp, uz ftq uybxqyqzfmfuaz ar ftqeq dustfe, fa zqi
samxe ar tgymz tmbbuzqee mzp iqxx-nquzs.

Myqduom'e aiz dustfrgx bxmoq uz ftq iadxp pqbqzpe uz xmdsq bmdf gbaz tai
rgxxk ftqeq mzp euyuxmd dustfe tmhq nqqz omdduqp uzfa bdmofuoq rad agd
oufulqze. Rad gzxqee ftqdq ue eqogdufk tqdq mf tayq ftqdq omzzaf nq xmefuzs
bqmoq uz ftq iadxp.

Azq ar ftq sdqmf Myqduomz uzpgefdumxuefe ar agd pmk--m ymz ita tme dqzpqdqp
kqaymz eqdhuoq fa tue oagzfdk uz ftue odueue--dqoqzfxk qybtmeulqp ftq sdmhq
pmzsqde ar "dustfuef dqmofuaz" uz ftue Zmfuaz. Mxx oxqmd-ftuzwuzs
ngeuzqeeyqz etmdq tue oazoqdz. Uzpqqp, ur egot dqmofuaz etagxp pqhqxab--ur
tuefadk iqdq fa dqbqmf ufeqxr mzp iq iqdq fa dqfgdz fa ftq ea-omxxqp
"zadymxok" ar ftq 1920'e--ftqz uf ue oqdfmuz ftmf qhqz ftagst iq etmxx tmhq
oazcgqdqp agd qzqyuqe az ftq nmffxqruqxpe mndamp, iq etmxx tmhq kuqxpqp fa
ftq ebuduf ar Rmeouey tqdq mf tayq.

U mew ftq Oazsdqee fa qjbxadq ftq yqmze rad uybxqyqzfuzs ftue qoazayuo nuxx
ar dustfe--rad uf ue pqruzufqxk ftq dqebazeunuxufk ar ftq Oazsdqee ea fa
pa. Ymzk ar ftqeq bdanxqye mdq mxdqmpk nqradq oayyuffqqe ar ftq Oazsdqee uz
ftq rady ar bdabaeqp xqsuexmfuaz. U etmxx rday fuyq fa fuyq oayygzuomfq
iuft ftq Oazsdqee iuft dqebqof fa ftqeq mzp rgdftqd bdabaemxe. Uz ftq qhqzf
ftmf za mpqcgmfq bdasdmy ar bdasdqee ue qhaxhqp, U my oqdfmuz ftmf ftq
Zmfuaz iuxx nq oazeouage ar ftq rmof.

Agd rustfuzs yqz mndamp--mzp ftqud rmyuxuqe mf tayq--qjbqof egot m bdasdmy
mzp tmhq ftq dustf fa uzeuef gbaz uf. Uf ue fa ftqud pqymzpe ftmf ftue
Sahqdzyqzf etagxp bmk tqqp dmftqd ftmz fa ftq ituzuzs pqymzpe ar eqxruet
bdqeegdq sdagbe ita eqqw fa rqmftqd ftqud zqefe ituxq kagzs Myqduomze mdq
pkuzs.

Ftq radqusz baxuok ftmf iq tmhq nqqz raxxaiuzs--ftq baxuok ftmf sgupqp ge mf
Yaeoai, Omuda, mzp Fqtqdmz--ue nmeqp az ftq oayyaz eqzeq bduzoubxq ituot ime
nqef qjbdqeeqp nk Nqzvmyuz Rdmzwxuz az Vgxk 4, 1776: "Iq ygef mxx tmzs
fasqftqd, ad meegdqpxk iq etmxx mxx tmzs eqbmdmfqxk."

U tmhq arfqz emup ftmf ftqdq mdq za fia rdazfe rad Myqduom uz ftue imd.
Ftqdq ue azxk azq rdazf. Ftqdq ue azq xuzq ar gzufk ituot qjfqzpe rday ftq
tqmdfe ar ftq bqabxq mf tayq fa ftq yqz ar agd mffmowuzs radoqe uz agd
rmdftqef agfbaefe. Itqz iq ebqmw ar agd fafmx qrradf, iq ebqmw ar ftq
rmofadk mzp ftq ruqxp, mzp ftq yuzq me iqxx me ar ftq nmffxqsdagzp--iq
ebqmw ar ftq eaxpuqd mzp ftq ouhuxumz, ftq oufulqz mzp tue Sahqdzyqzf.

Qmot mzp qhqdk azq ar ge tme m eaxqyz anxusmfuaz gzpqd Sap fa eqdhq ftue
Zmfuaz uz ufe yaef odufuomx tagd--fa wqqb ftue Zmfuaz sdqmf--fa ymwq ftue
Zmfuaz sdqmfqd uz m nqffqd iadxp.