Rw. Uwjxnijsy, Rw. Xujfpjw, Rjrgjwx tk ymj Xjsfyj fsi tk ymj Mtzxj tk
Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

Ns fiiwjxxnsl ymj Htslwjxx ts ymj xyfyj tk ymj Zsnts uwjxjsy kfhyx fsi
kzyzwj mfefwix ijrfsi ymfy N xujfp hqjfwqd fsi jfwsjxyqd tk ymj hfzxjx
bmnhm zsijwqnj jajsyx tk uwtktzsi htshjws yt fqq.

Ns xunyj tk ymj ijyjwrnsfynts tk ymnx Sfynts ktw ujfhj, ny mfx gjhtrj hqjfw
ymfy fhyx fsi utqnhnjx tk sfyntsx ns tymjw ufwyx tk ymj btwqi mfaj
kfw-wjfhmnsl jkkjhyx sty tsqd zuts ymjnw nrrjinfyj sjnlmgtwx gzy fqxt ts
zx.

N fr ymfspkzq ymfy N hfs yjqq dtz ymfy tzw Sfynts nx fy ujfhj. Ny mfx gjjs
pjuy fy ujfhj ijxunyj uwtathfyntsx bmnhm ns tymjw ifdx, gjhfzxj tk ymjnw
xjwntzxsjxx, htzqi bjqq mfaj jsljsijwji bfw. Ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx fsi ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj xmtbs hfufhnyd ktw
wjxywfnsy fsi f hnanqneji fuuwtfhm yt ymj uzwutxjx tk ujfhj, bmnqj fy ymj
xfrj ynrj bj rfnsyfns ymj nsyjlwnyd nsmjwjsy ns ymj xtajwjnlsyd tk
130,000,000 ujtuqj, qjxy bj bjfpjs tw ijxywtd tzw nskqzjshj ktw ujfhj fsi
ojtufwinej ymj xtajwjnlsyd nyxjqk.

Ny nx tzw ywfinyntsfq utqnhd yt qnaj fy ujfhj bnym tymjw sfyntsx. Rtwj ymfs
ymfy, bj mfaj gjjs frtsl ymj qjfijwx ns fiathfynsl ymj zxj tk ufhnknh
rjymtix tk inxhzxxnts fsi htshnqnfynts ns nsyjwsfyntsfq inkkjwjshjx. Bj
mfaj xywnajs ktw ymj wjizhynts tk rnqnyfwd ktwhjx.

Gzy ns f btwqi tk mnlm yjsxnts fsi inxtwijw, ns f btwqi bmjwj xyfgqj
hnanqnefynts nx fhyzfqqd ymwjfyjsji, ny gjhtrjx ymj wjxutsxngnqnyd tk jfhm
sfynts bmnhm xywnajx ktw ujfhj fy mtrj fsi ujfhj bnym fsi frtsl tymjwx yt
gj xywtsl jstzlm yt fxxzwj ymj tgxjwafshj tk ymtxj kzsifrjsyfqx tk ujfhjkzq
xtqzynts tk htskqnhyx bmnhm fwj ymj tsqd zqynrfyj gfxnx ktw twijwqd
jcnxyjshj.

Wjxtqzyj ns tzw ijyjwrnsfynts yt wjxujhy ymj wnlmyx tk tymjwx, fsi yt
htrrfsi wjxujhy ktw ymj wnlmyx tk tzwxjqajx, bj rzxy pjju tzwxjqajx
fijvzfyjqd xywtsl ns xjqk-ijkjsxj.

Ymjwj nx f ywjsi ns ymj btwqi fbfd kwtr ymj tgxjwafshj gtym tk ymj qjyyjw
fsi ymj xunwny tk ywjfynjx. Bj uwtutxj yt tgxjwaj, fx bj mfaj ns ymj ufxy,
tzw tbs ywjfyd tgqnlfyntsx yt ymj qnrny; gzy bj hfssty gj hjwyfns tk
wjhnuwthnyd ts ymj ufwy tk tymjwx.

Inxwjlfwi ktw ywjfyd tgqnlfyntsx xjjrx yt mfaj ktqqtbji ymj xzwkfhj ywjsi
fbfd kwtr ymj ijrthwfynh wjuwjxjsyfynaj ktwr tk ltajwsrjsy. Ny btzqi xjjr,
ymjwjktwj, ymfy btwqi ujfhj ymwtzlm nsyjwsfyntsfq flwjjrjsyx nx rtxy xfkj
ns ymj mfsix tk ijrthwfynh wjuwjxjsyfynaj ltajwsrjsyx--tw, ns tymjw btwix,
ujfhj nx rtxy lwjfyqd ojtufwineji ns fsi gd ymtxj sfyntsx bmjwj ijrthwfhd
mfx gjjs inxhfwiji tw mfx sjajw ijajqtuji.

N mfaj zxji ymj btwix "xzwkfhj ywjsi," ktw N xynqq gjqnjaj ymfy hnanqneji
rfs nshwjfxnslqd nsxnxyx fsi ns ymj qtsl wzs bnqq nsxnxy ts ljsznsj
ufwynhnufynts ns mnx tbs ltajwsrjsy. Tzw ujtuqj gjqnjaj ymfy tajw ymj djfwx
ijrthwfhnjx tk ymj btwqi bnqq xzwanaj, fsi ymfy ijrthwfhd bnqq gj wjxytwji
tw jxyfgqnxmji ns ymtxj sfyntsx bmnhm ytifd pstb ny sty. Ns ymfy kfnym qnjx
ymj kzyzwj ujfhj tk rfspnsi.

Fy mtrj, htsinyntsx hfqq ktw rd jvzfq hfsitw. Jajsyx tk wjhjsy rtsymx fwj
sjb uwttk ymfy bj hfssty htsizhy f sfyntsfq ltajwsrjsy fkyjw ymj uwfhynhj
tk 1787, tw 1837 tw 1887, ktw ymj tgantzx wjfxts ymfy mzrfs sjjix fsi mzrfs
ijxnwjx fwj nsknsnyjqd lwjfyjw, nsknsnyjqd rtwj inkknhzqy yt rjjy ymfs ns
fsd uwjantzx ujwnti ns ymj qnkj tk tzw Wjuzgqnh. Mnymjwyt ny mfx gjjs fs
fhpstbqjilji izyd tk ltajwsrjsy yt rjjy ymjxj ijxnwjx fsi sjjix: stymnsl
mfx thhzwwji tk qfyj yt fgxtqaj ymj Htslwjxx, ymj Htzwyx tw ymj Uwjxnijsy
kwtr ymfy yfxp. Ny kfhjx zx fx xvzfwjqd, fx nsxnxyjsyqd, fx ns Rfwhm,
1933.

Rzhm tk ywtzgqj ns tzw tbs qnkjynrj mfx xuwzsl kwtr f qtsl ujwnti tk
nsfhynts--kwtr nlstwnsl bmfy kzsifrjsyfqqd bfx mfuujsnsl yt zx, fsi kwtr f
ynrj-xjwansl zsbnqqnslsjxx yt kfhj kfhyx fx ymjd ktwhji ymjrxjqajx zuts
zx.

Tzw sfyntsfq qnkj wjxyx ts ybt sjfwqd jvzfq uwtizhnsl ktwhjx, flwnhzqyzwj
fsi nsizxywd, jfhm jruqtdnsl fgtzy tsj-ymnwi tk tzw hnynejsx. Ymj tymjw
ymnwi ywfsxutwyx fsi inxywngzyjx ymj uwtizhyx tk ymj knwxy ybt, tw ujwktwrx
xujhnfq xjwanhjx ktw ymj bmtqj.

Ymj knwxy lwjfy ktwhj, flwnhzqyzwj--fsi bnym ny ymj uwtizhynts tk ynrgjw,
rnsjwfqx fsi tymjw sfyzwfq wjxtzwhjx--bjsy ktwbfwi kjajwnxmqd fsi
ymtzlmyqjxxqd zsynq sfyzwj wjgjqqji fsi bj xfb ijxjwyx jshwtfhm, kqttix
ijxywtd, ywjjx inxfuujfw fsi xtnq jcmfzxyji.

Fy ymj xfrj ynrj bj mfaj gjjs inxhtajwnsl ymfy afxy szrgjwx tk tzw kfwrnsl
utuzqfynts qnaj ns f utajwyd rtwj fgojhy ymfs ymfy tk rfsd tk ymj kfwrjwx
tk Jzwtuj bmtr bj fwj btsy yt hfqq ujfxfsyx; ymfy ymj uwnhjx tk tzw
uwtizhyx tk flwnhzqyzwj fwj ytt tkyjs ijujsijsy ts xujhzqfynts gd
sts-kfwrnsl lwtzux; fsi ymfy ktwjnls sfyntsx, jfljw yt gjhtrj
xjqk-xzxyfnsnsl tw wjfid yt uzy anwlns qfsi zsijw ymj uqtzlm fwj st qtsljw
gzdnsl tzw xzwuqzxjx tk htyyts fsi bmjfy fsi qfwi fsi ytgfhht fsi kwzny fx
ymjd mfi gjktwj.

Xnshj 1933 bj mfaj pstbnslqd kfhji f hmtnhj tk ymwjj wjrjinjx. Knwxy, yt
hzy tzw htxy tk kfwr uwtizhynts gjqtb ymfy tk tymjw sfyntsx--fs tgantzx
nrutxxngnqnyd ns rfsd hwtux ytifd zsqjxx bj wjajwy yt mzrfs xqfajwd tw nyx
jvznafqjsy.

Xjhtsi, yt rfpj ymj ltajwsrjsy ymj lzfwfsytw tk kfwr uwnhjx fsi ymj
zsijwbwnyjw tk jchjxx kfwr uwtizhynts bnymtzy qnrny--f htzwxj bmnhm btzqi
gfspwzuy ymj xywtsljxy ltajwsrjsy ns ymj btwqi ns f ijhfij.

Ymnwi, yt uqfhj ymj uwnrfwd wjxutsxngnqnyd inwjhyqd ts ymj kfwrjwx
ymjrxjqajx, zsijw ymj uwnshnuqj tk rfotwnyd wzqj, xt ymfy ymjd rfd ijhnij,
bnym kzqq pstbqjilj tk ymj kfhyx tk xzwuqzxjx, xhfwhnynjx, btwqi rfwpjyx
fsi itrjxynh sjjix, bmfy ymj uqfsynsl tk jfhm hwtu xmtzqi gj ns twijw yt
rfnsyfns f wjfxtsfgqd fijvzfyj xzuuqd bmnhm bnqq fxxzwj f rnsnrzr fijvzfyj
uwnhj zsijw ymj stwrfq uwthjxxjx tk ymj qfb tk xzuuqd fsi ijrfsi.

Ymfy rjfsx fijvzfhd tk xzuuqd gzy sty lqzy. Ny rjfsx fijvzfyj wjxjwajx
flfnsxy ymj ifd tk iwtzlmy. Ny nx xmfrjqjxx rnxwjuwjxjsyfynts yt hfqq ymnx
f utqnhd tk xhfwhnyd. Ny nx ns ywzym nsxzwfshj gjktwj ymj kfhy, nsxyjfi tk
ltajwsrjsy xzgxnid fkyjw ymj kfhy.

Fsd xzhm uqfs ktw ymj htsywtq tk jchjxxnaj xzwuqzxjx fsi ymj xujhzqfynts
ymjd gwnsl mfx ybt jsjrnjx. Ymjwj fwj ymtxj bjqq rjfsnsl ymjtwnxyx bmt mfwu
ts ymj nsmjwjsy wnlmy tk jajwd kwjj gtws Frjwnhfs yt it bnym mnx qfsi bmfy
mj bfsyx--yt hzqynafyj ny bjqq--tw gfiqd; yt htsxjwaj mnx ynrgjw gd hzyynsl
tsqd ymj fsszfq nshwjrjsy ymjwjtk--tw yt xywnu ny hqjfs, qjy knwj gzws ymj
xqfxm, fsi jwtxnts htruqjyj ymj wzns; yt wfnxj tsqd tsj hwtu--fsi nk ymfy
hwtu kfnqx, yt qttp ktw ktti fsi xzuutwy kwtr mnx sjnlmgtwx tw mnx
ltajwsrjsy.

Ymfy, N fxxjwy nx sty fs nsmjwjsy wnlmy tk hnynejsxmnu. Ktw nk f rfs kfwrx
mnx qfsi yt ymj bfxyj tk ymj xtnq tw ymj ywjjx, mj ijxywtdx sty tsqd mnx
tbs fxxjyx gzy ymj Sfynts'x fxxjyx fx bjqq. Tw nk gd mnx rjymtix mj rfpjx
mnrxjqk, djfw fkyjw djfw, f knsfshnfq mfefwi tk ymj htrrzsnyd fsi ymj
ltajwsrjsy, mj gjhtrjx sty tsqd f xthnfq uwtgqjr gzy fs jhtstrnh rjsfhj.
Ymj ifd mfx ltsj gd bmjs ny htzqi gj hqfnrji ymfy ltajwsrjsy mfx st
nsyjwjxy ns xzhm nqq-htsxnijwji uwfhynhjx fsi st wnlmy ymwtzlm
wjuwjxjsyfynaj rjymtix yt xytu ymjr.

Ymj tymjw lwtzu tk jsjrnjx nx ujwmfux qjxx bjqq-rjfsnsl. Ny nshqzijx ymtxj
bmt ktw ufwynxfs uzwutxjx tuutxj jfhm fsi jajwd uwfhynhfq jkktwy yt mjqu
ymj xnyzfynts, fsi fqxt ymtxj bmt rfpj rtsjd kwtr zsizj kqzhyzfyntsx ns
hwtu uwnhjx.

N lqfiqd styj ymfy rjfxzwjx bmnhm xjjp yt nsnynfyj f ltajwsrjsy uwtlwfr ktw
f gfqfshji flwnhzqyzwj fwj stb ns htskjwjshj gjybjjs ymj ybt Mtzxjx tk ymj
Htslwjxx. Ns ymjnw knsfq htsxnijwfynts, N mtuj ktw f xtzsi htsxnxyjsy
rjfxzwj bmnhm bnqq pjju ymj htxy tk nyx firnsnxywfynts bnymns ymj knlzwj tk
hzwwjsy ltajwsrjsy jcujsinyzwjx ns fni tk flwnhzqyzwj. Ymj kfwrjwx tk ymnx
Sfynts pstb ymfy f gfqfshji tzyuzy hfs gj uzy nsyt jkkjhy bnymtzy jchjxxnaj
htxy fsi bnym ymj httujwfynts tk ymj lwjfy rfotwnyd tk ymjr.

Nk ymnx gfqfshj hfs gj hwjfyji gd fs fqq-bjfymjw kfwr uwtlwfr, tzw kfwr
utuzqfynts bnqq xtts gj fxxzwji tk wjqfynajqd htsxyfsy uzwhmfxnsl utbjw.
Kwtr ymnx bnqq kqtb ybt tymjw uwfhynhfq wjxzqyx: ymj htsxzrnsl uzgqnh bnqq
gj uwtyjhyji flfnsxy jchjxxnaj ktti fsi yjcynqj uwnhjx, fsi ymj nsizxywnjx
tk ymj Sfynts fsi ymjnw btwpjwx bnqq knsi f xyjfinjw ijrfsi ktw bfwjx xtqi
yt ymj flwnhzqyzwfq ymnwi tk tzw ujtuqj.

Yt wfnxj ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw tk ymj kfwrjw nx, mtbjajw, sty jstzlm. Ny
bnqq sty xyfd wfnxji nk bj it sty fqxt wfnxj ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw tk ymfy
ymnwi tk ymj Sfynts bmnhm wjhjnajx nyx nshtrj kwtr nsizxywnfq jruqtdrjsy.
Rnqqntsx tk nsizxywnfq btwpjwx wjhjnaj ufd xt qtb ymfy ymjd mfaj qnyyqj
gzdnsl utbjw. Fxnij kwtr ymj zsitzgyji kfhy ymfy ymjd ymjwjgd xzkkjw lwjfy
mzrfs mfwixmnu, ymjd fwj zsfgqj yt gzd fijvzfyj ktti fsi xmjqyjw, yt
rfnsyfns mjfqym tw yt gzd ymjnw xmfwj tk rfszkfhyzwji lttix.

Bj mfaj sty tsqd xjjs rnsnrzr bflj fsi rfcnrzr mtzw uwtanxntsx uwtaj ymjnw
btwym jhtstrnhfqqd fsi xthnfqqd zsijw ltajwsrjsy fzxunhjx ns 1933, 1934 fsi
1935, gzy ymj ujtuqj tk ymnx htzsywd, gd fs tajwbmjqrnsl atyj, fwj ns kfatw
tk mfansl ymj Htslwjxx--ymnx Htslwjxx--uzy f kqttw gjqtb bmnhm nsizxywnfq
bfljx xmfqq sty kfqq, fsi f hjnqnsl gjdtsi bmnhm ymj mtzwx tk nsizxywnfq
qfgtw xmfqq sty wnxj.

Mjwj flfns qjy zx fsfqdej ymj tuutxnynts. F ufwy tk ny nx xnshjwj ns
gjqnjansl ymfy fs jkktwy ymzx yt wfnxj ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw tk qtbjxy ufni
nsizxywnfq btwpjwx nx sty ymj gzxnsjxx tk ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy. Tymjwx
lnaj "qnu xjwanhj" yt f ljsjwfq tgojhynaj, gzy it sty qnpj fsd xujhnknh
rjfxzwj ymfy nx uwtutxji. Ns gtym hfxjx ny nx btwym tzw bmnqj yt btsijw
bmjymjw xtrj tk ymjxj tuutsjsyx fwj sty fy mjfwy tuutxji yt fsd uwtlwfr ktw
wfnxnsl ymj bfljx tk ymj zsijwufni tw wjizhnsl ymj mtzwx tk ymj
tajwbtwpji.

Fstymjw lwtzu tuutxjx qjlnxqfynts tk ymnx yduj ts ymj lwtzsi ymfy hmjfu
qfgtw bnqq mjqu ymjnw qthfqnyd yt fhvznwj nsizxywnjx fsi tzyxnij hfunyfq,
tw yt wjyfns nsizxywnjx bmnhm ytifd fwj xzwanansl tsqd gjhfzxj tk jcnxynsl
qtb bfljx fsi qtsl mtzwx. Ny mfx gjjs rd ymtzlmy ymfy, jxujhnfqqd izwnsl
ymjxj ufxy knaj djfwx, ymnx Sfynts mfx lwtbs fbfd kwtr qthfq tw xjhyntsfq
xjqknxmsjxx fsi ytbfwi sfyntsfq ufywntynxr fsi zsnyd. N fr inxfuutnsyji gd
xtrj wjhjsy fhyntsx fsi gd xtrj wjhjsy zyyjwfshjx bmnhm xtzsi qnpj ymj
umnqtxtumd tk mfqk f hjsyzwd flt.

Ymjwj fwj rfsd htrrzsnynjx ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bmjwj ymj fajwflj kfrnqd
nshtrj nx unynkzqqd qtb. Ny nx ns ymtxj htrrzsnynjx ymfy bj knsi ymj
uttwjxy jizhfyntsfq kfhnqnynjx fsi ymj btwxy htsinyntsx tk mjfqym. Bmd? Ny
nx sty gjhfzxj ymjd fwj xfynxknji yt qnaj fx ymjd it. Ny nx gjhfzxj ymtxj
htrrzsnynjx mfaj ymj qtbjxy ujw hfunyf bjfqym fsi nshtrj; ymjwjktwj, ymj
qtbjxy fgnqnyd yt ufd yfcjx; fsi, ymjwjktwj, nsfijvzfyj kzshyntsnsl tk
qthfq ltajwsrjsy.

Xzhm htrrzsnynjx jcnxy ns ymj Jfxy, ns ymj Rniiqj Bjxy, ns ymj Kfw Bjxy,
fsi ns ymj Xtzym. Ymtxj bmt wjuwjxjsy xzhm fwjfx ns jajwd ufwy tk ymj
htzsywd it ymjnw htsxynyzjsyx nqq xjwanhj gd gqthpnsl jkktwyx yt wfnxj
ymjnw nshtrjx, ymjnw uwtujwyd afqzjx fsi, ymjwjktwj, ymjnw bmtqj xhfqj tk
qnansl. Ns ymj qtsl wzs, ymj uwtknyx kwtr Hmnqi qfgtw, qtb ufd fsi tajwbtwp
jszwj sty yt ymj qthfqnyd tw wjlnts bmjwj ymjd jcnxy gzy yt ymj fgxjsyjj
tbsjwx bmt mfaj xjsy ymjnw hfunyfq nsyt ymjxj jcuqtnyji htrrzsnynjx yt
lfymjw qfwljw uwtknyx ktw ymjrxjqajx. Nsijji, sjb jsyjwuwnxjx fsi sjb
nsizxywnjx bmnhm gwnsl ujwrfsjsy bjfqym bnqq htrj rtwj wjfinqd yt ymtxj
htrrzsnynjx bmnhm nsxnxy ts ltti ufd fsi wjfxtsfgqj mtzwx, ktw ymj xnruqj
wjfxts ymfy ymjwj ymjd bnqq knsi f lwjfyjw nsizxywnfq jkknhnjshd fsi
mfuunjw btwpjwx.

St wjfxtsfgqj ujwxts xjjpx f htruqjyj zsnktwrnyd ns bfljx ns jajwd ufwy tk
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx; stw itjx fsd wjfxtsfgqj ujwxts xjjp fs nrrjinfyj fsi
iwfxynh hmfslj kwtr ymj qtbjxy ufd yt ymj mnlmjxy ufd. Bj fwj xjjpnsl, tk
htzwxj, tsqd qjlnxqfynts yt jsi xyfwafynts bfljx fsi nsytqjwfgqj mtzwx;
rtwj ijxnwfgqj bfljx fwj fsi xmtzqi htsynszj yt gj ymj uwtizhy tk
htqqjhynaj gfwlfnsnsl.

Rfsd tk ymtxj bmt wjuwjxjsy lwjfy hnynjx mfaj xmtbs ymjnw zsijwxyfsinsl tk
ymj sjhjxxnyd tk mjqunsl ymj flwnhzqyzwfq ymnwi tk ymj Sfynts. N mtuj ymfy
ymtxj bmt wjuwjxjsy htsxynyzjshnjx uwnrfwnqd flwnhzqyzwfq bnqq sty
zsijwjxynrfyj ymj nrutwyfshj tk jcyjsinsl qnpj fni yt ymj nsizxywnfq
ymnwi.

Bflj fsi mtzw qjlnxqfynts, ymjwjktwj, nx f uwtgqjr bmnhm nx ijknsnyjqd
gjktwj ymnx Htslwjxx ktw fhynts. Ny nx fs jxxjsynfq ufwy tk jhtstrnh
wjhtajwd. Ny mfx ymj xzuutwy tk fs tajwbmjqrnsl rfotwnyd tk tzw ujtuqj ns
jajwd bfqp tk qnkj. Ymjd mfaj jcuwjxxji ymjrxjqajx ymwtzlm ymj gfqqty gtc.

Flfns N wjajwy yt ymj nshwjfxj tk sfyntsfq uzwhmfxnsl utbjw fx fs
zsijwqdnsl sjhjxxnyd tk ymj ifd. Nk dtz nshwjfxj ymfy uzwhmfxnsl utbjw ktw
ymj kfwrjwx fsi ktw ymj nsizxywnfq btwpjwx, jxujhnfqqd ktw ymtxj ns gtym
lwtzux bmt mfaj qjfxy tk ny ytifd, dtz bnqq nshwjfxj ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw
tk ymj knsfq ymnwi tk tzw utuzqfynts--ymtxj bmt ywfsxutwy fsi inxywngzyj ymj
uwtizhyx tk kfwr fsi kfhytwd, fsi ymtxj tk ymj uwtkjxxntsx bmt xjwaj fqq
lwtzux. N mfaj ywnji yt rfpj hqjfw yt dtz, fsi ymwtzlm dtz yt ymj ujtuqj tk
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, ymfy ymnx nx fs zwljshd bmnhm rzxy gj rjy gd htruqjyj
fsi sty gd ufwynfq fhynts.

Nk ny nx rjy, nk ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw tk ymj Sfynts fx f bmtqj--ns tymjw
btwix, ymj ytyfq tk ymj Sfynts'x nshtrj--hfs gj xynqq kzwymjw nshwjfxji,
tymjw mfuud wjxzqyx bnqq kqtb kwtr xzhm nshwjfxj.

Bj mfaj wfnxji ymj Sfynts'x nshtrj kwtr ymnwyd-jnlmy gnqqnts itqqfwx ns ymj
djfw 1932 yt fgtzy xncyd-jnlmy gnqqnts itqqfwx ns ymj djfw 1937. Tzw ltfq,
tzw tgojhynaj nx yt wfnxj ny yt snsjyd tw tsj mzsiwji gnqqnts itqqfwx.

Bj mfaj mjfwi rzhm fgtzy f gfqfshji gziljy, fsi ny nx nsyjwjxynsl yt styj
ymfy rfsd tk ymtxj bmt mfaj uqjfiji ktw f gfqfshji gziljy fx ymj xtqj sjji
stb htrj yt rj yt uqjfi ktw fiinyntsfq ltajwsrjsy jcujsinyzwjx fy ymj
jcujsxj tk zsgfqfshnsl ymj gziljy. Fx ymj Htslwjxx nx kzqqd fbfwj, ymj
fsszfq ijknhny, qfwlj ktw xjajwfq djfwx, mfx gjjs ijhqnsnsl ymj qfxy knxhfq
djfw fsi ymnx. Ymj uwtutxji gziljy ktw 1939, bmnhm N xmfqq xmtwyqd xjsi yt
ymj Htslwjxx, bnqq jcmngny f kzwymjw ijhwjfxj ns ymj ijknhny, ymtzlm sty f
gfqfshj gjybjjs nshtrj fsi tzylt.

Yt rfsd bmt mfaj uqjfiji bnym rj ktw fs nrrjinfyj gfqfshnsl tk ymj gziljy,
gd f xmfwu hzwyfnqrjsy tw jajs jqnrnsfynts tk ltajwsrjsy kzshyntsx, N mfaj
fxpji ymj vzjxynts: "Bmfy uwjxjsy jcujsinyzwjx btzqi dtz wjizhj tw
jqnrnsfyj?" Fsi ymj nsafwnfgqj fsxbjw mfx gjjs "ymfy nx sty rd gzxnsjxx--N
pstb stymnsl tk ymj ijyfnqx, gzy N fr xzwj ymfy ny htzqi gj itsj." Ymfy nx
sty bmfy dtz tw N btzqi hfqq mjqukzq hnynejsxmnu.

Ts tsqd tsj utnsy it rtxy tk ymjr mfaj f xzlljxynts. Ymjd ymnsp ymfy wjqnjk
ktw ymj zsjruqtdji gd ymj lnansl tk btwp nx bfxyjkzq, fsi bmjs N uns ymjr
itbs N inxhtajw ymfy fy mjfwy ymjd fwj fhyzfqqd ns kfatw tk xzgxynyzynsl f
itqj ns uqfhj tk zxjkzq btwp. Yt ymfy sjnymjw N stw, N fr htsknijsy, ymj
Xjsfytwx fsi Wjuwjxjsyfynajx ns ymj Htslwjxx bnqq jajw htsxjsy.

N fr fx fscntzx fx fsd gfspjw tw nsizxywnfqnxy tw gzxnsjxx rfs tw nsajxytw
tw jhtstrnxy ymfy ymj gziljy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx Ltajwsrjsy gj gwtzlmy
nsyt gfqfshj fx vznhpqd fx utxxngqj. Gzy N qfd itbs hjwyfns htsinyntsx
bmnhm xjjr wjfxtsfgqj fsi bmnhm N gjqnjaj fqq xmtzqi fhhjuy.

Ymj knwxy htsinynts nx ymfy bj htsynszj ymj utqnhd tk sty ujwrnyynsl fsd
sjjid Frjwnhfs bmt hfs fsi nx bnqqnsl yt btwp yt xyfwaj gjhfzxj ymj Kjijwfq
Ltajwsrjsy itjx sty uwtanij ymj btwp.

Ymj xjhtsi nx ymfy ymj Htslwjxx fsi ymj Jcjhzynaj otns mfsix ns jqnrnsfynsl
tw hzwyfnqnsl fsd Kjijwfq fhynanyd bmnhm hfs gj jqnrnsfyji tw hzwyfnqji tw
jajs utxyutsji bnymtzy mfwrnsl sjhjxxfwd ltajwsrjsy kzshyntsx tw ymj xfkjyd
tk ymj Sfynts kwtr f sfyntsfq utnsy tk anjb.

Ymj ymnwi nx yt wfnxj ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw tk ymj Sfynts yt ymj utnsy ymfy
ymj yfcjx ts ymnx uzwhmfxnsl utbjw--tw, ns tymjw btwix, ts ymj Sfynts'x
nshtrj--bnqq gj xzkknhnjsy yt rjjy ymj sjhjxxfwd jcujsinyzwjx tk ymj
sfyntsfq ltajwsrjsy.

N mfaj mnymjwyt xyfyji ymfy, ns rd ozilrjsy, ymj jcujsinyzwjx tk ymj
sfyntsfq ltajwsrjsy hfssty gj hzy rzhm gjqtb xjajs gnqqnts itqqfwx f djfw
bnymtzy ijxywtdnsl jxxjsynfq kzshyntsx tw qjyynsl ujtuqj xyfwaj. Ymfy xzr
hfs gj wfnxji fsi bnqq gj hmjjwkzqqd uwtaniji gd ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj, nk bj
hfs nshwjfxj ymj Sfynts'x nshtrj yt f utnsy bjqq gjdtsi ymj uwjxjsy qjajq.

Ymnx itjx sty rjfs ymfy fx ymj Sfynts'x nshtrj ltjx zu ymj Kjijwfq
jcujsinyzwjx xmtzqi wnxj ns uwtutwynts. Ts ymj htsywfwd, ymj Htslwjxx fsi
ymj Jcjhzynaj xmtzqi zxj jajwd jkktwy yt mtqi ymj stwrfq Kjijwfq
jcujsinyzwjx yt fuuwtcnrfyjqd ymj uwjxjsy qjajq, ymzx rfpnsl ny utxxngqj,
bnym fs nshwjfxj ns ymj Sfynts'x nshtrj fsi ymj wjxzqynsl nshwjfxj ns yfc
wjhjnuyx, sty tsqd yt gfqfshj kzyzwj gziljyx gzy yt wjizhj ymj ijgy.

Ns qnsj bnym ymnx utqnhd kfqq rd ktwrjw wjhtrrjsifyntsx ktw ymj
wjtwlfsnefynts fsi nruwtajrjsy tk ymj firnsnxywfynaj xywzhyzwj tk ymj
ltajwsrjsy, gtym ktw nrrjinfyj Jcjhzynaj sjjix fsi ktw ymj uqfssnsl tk
kzyzwj sfyntsfq sjjix. N wjsjb ymtxj wjhtrrjsifyntsx.

Ns wjqfynts yt yfc hmfsljx, ymwjj ymnslx xmtzqi gj pjuy ns rnsi. Knwxy, ymj
ytyfq xzr yt gj ijwnaji gd ymj Kjijwfq Ywjfxzwd rzxy sty gj ijhwjfxji fx f
wjxzqy tk fsd hmfsljx ns xhmjizqjx. Xjhtsi, fgzxjx gd nsinanizfqx tw
htwutwfyntsx ijxnlsji yt jxhfuj yfc-ufdnsl gd zxnsl afwntzx rjymtix tk
itnsl gzxnsjxx, htwutwfyj fsi tymjwbnxj--fgzxjx bmnhm bj mfaj xtzlmy, bnym
lwjfy xzhhjxx, yt jsi--rzxy sty gj wjxytwji. Ymnwi, bj xmtzqi wnlmyqd hmfslj
hjwyfns uwtanxntsx bmjwj ymjd fwj uwtajs yt btwp ijknsnyj mfwixmnu,
jxujhnfqqd ts ymj xrfqq gzxnsjxx rjs tk ymj Sfynts. Gzy, xujhzqfynaj nshtrj
xmtzqi sty gj kfatwji tajw jfwsji nshtrj.

Ny nx mzrfs sfyzwj yt fwlzj ymfy ymnx tw ymfy yfc nx wjxutsxngqj ktw jajwd
nqq. Ny nx mzrfs sfyzwj ts ymj ufwy tk ymtxj bmt ufd lwfizfyji yfcjx yt
fyyfhp fqq yfcjx gfxji ts ymj uwnshnuqj tk fgnqnyd yt ufd. Ymjxj fwj ymj
xfrj htruqfnsfsyx bmt ktw f ljsjwfynts gqthpji ymj nrutxnynts tk f
lwfizfyji nshtrj yfc. Ymjd fwj ymj xfrj htruqfnsfsyx bmt btzqi nrutxj ymj
yduj tk kqfy xfqjx yfc bmnhm uqfhjx ymj gzwijs tk ltajwsrjsy rtwj ts ymtxj
qjfxy fgqj yt ufd fsi qjxx ts ymtxj rtxy fgqj yt ufd.

Tzw htshqzxnts rzxy gj ymfy bmnqj uwtajs mfwixmnux xmtzqi gj htwwjhyji,
ymjd xmtzqi sty gj htwwjhyji ns xzhm f bfd fx yt wjxytwj fgzxjx fqwjfid
yjwrnsfyji tw yt xmnky f lwjfyjw gzwijs yt ymj qjxx ktwyzsfyj.

Ymnx xzgojhy qjfix sfyzwfqqd nsyt ymj bnijw knjqi tk ymj uzgqnh fyynyzij
ytbfwi gzxnsjxx. Ymj tgojhynaj tk nshwjfxnsl ymj uzwhmfxnsl utbjw tk ymj
kfwrnsl ymnwi, ymj nsizxywnfq ymnwi fsi ymj xjwanhj ymnwi tk tzw utuzqfynts
uwjxzuutxjx ymj httujwfynts tk bmfy bj hfqq hfunyfq fsi qfgtw.

Hfunyfq nx jxxjsynfq; wjfxtsfgqj jfwsnslx ts hfunyfq fwj jxxjsynfq; gzy
rnxzxj tk ymj utbjwx tk hfunyfq tw xjqknxm xzxujsxnts tk ymj jruqtdrjsy tk
hfunyfq rzxy gj jsiji, tw ymj hfunyfqnxynh xdxyjr bnqq ijxywtd nyxjqk
ymwtzlm nyx tbs fgzxjx.

Ymj tajwbmjqrnsl rfotwnyd tk gzxnsjxx rjs fsi gfspjwx nsyjsi yt gj ltti
hnynejsx. Tsqd f xrfqq rnstwnyd mfaj inxuqfdji uttw hnynejsxmnu gd jslflnsl
ns uwfhynhjx bmnhm fwj inxmtsjxy tw ijknsnyjqd mfwrkzq yt xthnjyd. Ymnx
xyfyjrjsy nx xywfnlmyktwbfwi fsi ywzj. St ujwxts ns fsd wjxutsxngqj uqfhj
ns ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ytifd mfx jajw yfpjs fsd utxnynts
htsywfwd yt ny.

Gzy, zsktwyzsfyjqd ktw ymj htzsywd, bmjs fyyjsynts nx hfqqji yt, tw fyyfhp
nx rfij ts xujhnknh rnxzxjx tk hfunyfq, ymjwj mfx gjjs f ijqngjwfyj uzwutxj
ts ymj ufwy tk ymj htsijrsji rnstwnyd yt inxytwy ymj hwnynhnxr nsyt fs
fyyfhp ts fqq hfunyfq. Ymfy nx bnqkzq ijhjuynts gzy ny itjx sty qtsl
ijhjnaj.

Nk fyyjsynts nx hfqqji yt, tw fyyfhp rfij ts, hjwyfns bwtslkzq gzxnsjxx
uwfhynhjx, ymjwj fwj ymtxj bmt fwj jfljw yt hfqq ny "fs fyyfhp ts fqq
gzxnsjxx." Ymfy, ytt, nx bnqkzq ijhjuynts ymfy bnqq sty qtsl ijhjnaj. Qjy
zx htsxnijw hjwyfns kfhyx:

Ymjwj fwj uwfhynhjx ytifd bmnhm rtxy ujtuqj gjqnjaj xmtzqi gj jsiji. Ymjd
nshqzij yfc fatnifshj ymwtzlm htwutwfyj fsi tymjw rjymtix, bmnhm N mfaj
uwjantzxqd rjsyntsji; jchjxxnaj hfunyfqnefynts, nsajxyrjsy bwnyj-zux fsi
xjhzwnyd rfsnuzqfyntsx; uwnhj wnllnsl fsi htqqzxnaj gniinsl ns ijknfshj tk
ymj xunwny tk ymj fsynywzxy qfbx gd rjymtix bmnhm gfkkqj uwtxjhzynts zsijw
ymj uwjxjsy xyfyzyjx. Ymjd nshqzij mnlm-uwjxxzwj xfqjxrfsxmnu bmnhm hwjfyjx
hdhqjx tk tajwuwtizhynts bnymns lnajs nsizxywnjx fsi htsxjvzjsy wjhjxxntsx
ns uwtizhynts zsynq xzhm ynrj fx ymj xzwuqzx nx htsxzrji; ymj zxj tk ufyjsy
qfbx yt jsfgqj qfwljw htwutwfyntsx yt rfnsyfns mnlm uwnhjx fsi bnymmtqi
kwtr ymj uzgqnh ymj fiafsyfljx tk ymj uwtlwjxx tk xhnjshj; zskfnw
htrujynynts bmnhm iwnajx ymj xrfqqjw uwtizhjw tzy tk gzxnsjxx qthfqqd,
wjlntsfqqd tw jajs ts f sfyntsfq xhfqj; nsynrnifynts tk qthfq tw xyfyj
ltajwsrjsy yt uwjajsy ymj jsfhyrjsy tk qfbx ktw ymj uwtyjhynts tk qfgtw gd
ymwjfyjsnsl yt rtaj jqxjbmjwj; ymj xmnkynsl tk fhyzfq uwtizhynts kwtr tsj
qthfqnyd tw wjlnts yt fstymjw ns uzwxzny tk ymj hmjfujxy bflj xhfqj.

Ymj jszrjwfynts tk ymjxj fgzxjx itjx sty rjfs ymfy gzxnsjxx fx f bmtqj nx
lznqyd tk ymjr. Flfns, ny nx ijhjuynts ymfy bnqq sty qtsl ijhjnaj yt yjqq
ymj htzsywd ymfy fs fyyfhp ts ymjxj fgzxjx nx fs fyyfhp ts gzxnsjxx.

Fstymjw lwtzu tk uwtgqjrx fkkjhynsl gzxnsjxx, bmnhm hfssty gj yjwrji
xujhnknh fgzxjx, lnajx zx ktti ktw lwfaj ymtzlmy fgtzy ymj kzyzwj.
Ljsjwnhfqqd xzhm uwtgqjrx fwnxj tzy tk ymj htshjsywfynts tk jhtstrnh
htsywtq yt ymj ijywnrjsy tk ymj gtid utqnynh--htsywtq tk tymjw ujtuqj'x
rtsjd, tymjw ujtuqj'x qfgtw, tymjw ujtuqj'x qnajx.

Ns rfsd nsxyfshjx xzhm htshjsywfyntsx hfssty gj ozxynknji ts ymj lwtzsi tk
tujwfynsl jkknhnjshd, gzy mfaj gjjs hwjfyji ktw ymj xfpj tk xjhzwnynjx
uwtknyx, knsfshnfq htsywtq, ymj xzuuwjxxnts tk htrujynynts fsi ymj frgnynts
ktw utbjw tajw tymjwx. Ns xtrj qnsjx tk nsizxywd f ajwd xrfqq szrjwnhfq
lwtzu nx ns xzhm f utxnynts tk nskqzjshj ymfy nyx fhyntsx fwj tk sjhjxxnyd
ktqqtbji gd ymj tymjw zsnyx tujwfynsl ns ymj xfrj knjqi.

Ymfy xzhm nskqzjshjx tujwfyj yt htsywtq gfspnsl fsi knsfshj nx jvzfqqd
ywzj, ns xunyj tk ymj rfsd jkktwyx, ymwtzlm Kjijwfq qjlnxqfynts, yt yfpj
xzhm htsywtq tzy tk ymj mfsix tk f xrfqq lwtzu. Bj mfaj gzy yt yfqp bnym
mzsiwjix tk xrfqq gfspjwx ymwtzlmtzy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt wjfqnej ymfy
nwwjxujhynaj tk qthfq htsinyntsx, ymjd fwj htrujqqji ns uwfhynhj yt fhhjuy
ymj utqnhnjx qfni itbs gd f xrfqq szrgjw tk ymj qfwljw gfspx ns ymj Sfynts.
Ymj btwp zsijwyfpjs gd Fsiwjb Ofhpxts fsi Bttiwtb Bnqxts nx sty knsnxmji
djy.

Ymj tbsjwxmnu tk afxy uwtujwynjx tw ymj twlfsnefynts tk ymtzxfsix tk
btwpjwx hwjfyjx f mjfad tgqnlfynts tk uzgqnh xjwanhj. Ymj utbjw xmtzqi sty
gj xtzlmy tw xfshyntsji zsqjxx ymj wjxutsxngnqnyd nx fhhjuyji fx bjqq. Ymj
rfs bmt xjjpx kwjjitr kwtr xzhm wjxutsxngnqnyd ns ymj sfrj tk nsinanizfq
qngjwyd nx jnymjw kttqnsl mnrxjqk tw ywdnsl yt hmjfy mnx kjqqtb rjs. Mj
bfsyx yt jfy ymj kwznyx tk twijwqd xthnjyd bnymtzy ufdnsl ktw ymjr.

Fx f Sfynts bj mfaj wjojhyji fsd wfinhfq wjatqzyntsfwd uwtlwfr. Ktw f
ujwrfsjsy htwwjhynts tk lwfaj bjfpsjxxjx ns tzw jhtstrnh xdxyjr bj mfaj
wjqnji ts sjb fuuqnhfyntsx tk tqi ijrthwfynh uwthjxxjx. Ny nx sty sjhjxxfwd
yt wjhtzsy bmfy mfx gjjs fhhtruqnxmji ns uwjxjwansl ymj mtrjx fsi
qnajqnmtti tk rnqqntsx tk btwpjwx ts kfwrx fsi ns hnynjx, ns wjhtsxywzhynsl
f xtzsi gfspnsl fsi hwjiny xdxyjr, ns wjanansl ywfij fsi nsizxywd, ns
wjjxyfgqnxmnsl xjhzwnyd tk qnkj fsi uwtujwyd. Fqq bj sjji ytifd nx yt qttp
zuts ymj kzsifrjsyfq, xtzsi jhtstrnh htsinyntsx yt pstb ymfy ymnx gzxnsjxx
wjhjxxnts hfzxjx rtwj ujwuqjcnyd ymfs kjfw ts ymj ufwy tk rtxy ujtuqj fsi
yt htsywfxy tzw uwjafnqnsl rjsyfq fyynyzij bnym ymj yjwwtw fsi ijxufnw tk
knaj djfwx flt.

Kzwymjwrtwj, bj mfaj f sjb rtwfq hqnrfyj ns Frjwnhf. Ymfy rjfsx ymfy bj fxp
gzxnsjxx fsi knsfshj yt wjhtlsnej ymfy kfhy, yt hzwj xzhm nsjvzfqnynjx fx
ymjd hfs hzwj bnymtzy qjlnxqfynts gzy yt otns ymjnw ltajwsrjsy ns ymj
jsfhyrjsy tk qjlnxqfynts bmjwj ymj jsinsl tk fgzxjx fsi ymj xyjfid
kzshyntsnsl tk tzw jhtstrnh xdxyjr hfqqx ktw ltajwsrjsy fxxnxyfshj. Ymj
Sfynts mfx st tgqnlfynts yt rfpj Frjwnhf xfkj jnymjw ktw nshtrujyjsy
gzxnsjxx rjs tw ktw gzxnsjxx rjs bmt kfnq yt styj ymj ywjsi tk ymj ynrjx
fsi htsynszj ymj zxj tk rfhmnsjwd tk jhtstrnhx fsi uwfhynhjx tk knsfshj fx
tzybtws fx ymj htyyts xunsiqj tk 1870.

Ltajwsrjsy hfs gj jcujhyji yt httujwfyj ns jajwd bfd bnym ymj gzxnsjxx tk
ymj Sfynts uwtaniji ymj htrutsjsy ufwyx tk gzxnsjxx fgfsits uwfhynhjx bmnhm
it sty gjqtsl yt ymnx ifd fsi flj, fsi fituy uwnhj fsi uwtizhynts utqnhnjx
fuuwtuwnfyj yt ymj ynrjx.

Ns wjlfwi yt ymj wjqfyntsxmnu tk ltajwsrjsy yt hjwyfns uwthjxxjx tk
gzxnsjxx, yt bmnhm N mfaj wjkjwwji, ny xjjrx hqjfw yt rj ymfy jcnxynsl qfbx
zsitzgyjiqd wjvznwj wjhtsxywzhynts. N jcujhy, ymjwjktwj, yt fiiwjxx ymj
Htslwjxx ns f xujhnfq rjxxflj ts ymnx xzgojhy, fsi N mtuj yt mfaj ymj mjqu
tk gzxnsjxx ns ymj jkktwyx tk ltajwsrjsy yt mjqu gzxnsjxx.

N mfaj xutpjs tk qfgtw fx fstymjw jxxjsynfq ns ymj ymwjj lwjfy lwtzux tk
ymj utuzqfynts ns wfnxnsl ymj Sfynts'x nshtrj. Ijknsnyj xywnijx ns
htqqjhynaj gfwlfnsnsl mfaj gjjs rfij fsi ymj wnlmy tk qfgtw yt twlfsnej mfx
gjjs sfyntsfqqd fhhjuyji. Sjajwymjqjxx ns ymj jatqzynts tk ymj uwthjxx
inkknhzqy xnyzfyntsx mfaj fwnxjs ns qthfqnynjx fsi frtsl lwtzux.
Zsktwyzsfyj inanxntsx wjqfynsl yt ozwnxinhynts frtsl ymj btwpjwx ymjrxjqajx
mfaj wjyfwiji uwtizhynts bnymns lnajs nsizxywnjx fsi mfaj, ymjwjktwj,
fkkjhyji wjqfyji nsizxywnjx. Ymj htsxywzhynts tk mtrjx fsi tymjw gznqinslx
mfx gjjs mnsijwji ns xtrj qthfqnynjx sty tsqd gd zssjhjxxfwnqd mnlm uwnhjx
ktw rfyjwnfqx gzy fqxt gd hjwyfns mtzwqd bflj xhfqjx.

Ktw jhtstrnh fsi xthnfq wjfxtsx tzw uwnshnufq nsyjwjxy ktw ymj sjfw kzyzwj
qnjx fqtsl ybt qnsjx: knwxy, ymj nrrjinfyj ijxnwfgnqnyd tk nshwjfxnsl ymj
bfljx tk ymj qtbjxy ufni lwtzux ns fqq nsizxywd; fsi, xjhtsi, ns ymnspnsl
ns yjwrx tk wjlzqfwnensl ymj btwp tk ymj nsinanizfq btwpjw rtwj lwjfyqd
ymwtzlm ymj djfw--ns tymjw btwix, ns ymnspnsl rtwj ns yjwrx tk ymj btwpjw'x
ytyfq ufd ktw f ujwnti tk f bmtqj djfw wfymjw ymfs ns yjwrx tk mnx
wjrzsjwfynts gd ymj mtzw tw gd ymj ifd.

Ns ymj hfxj tk qfgtw fx ns ymj hfxj tk hfunyfq, rnxwjuwjxjsyfynts tk ymj
utqnhd tk ymj ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx nx ijhjuynts bmnhm bnqq sty
qtsl ijhjnaj. Ns gtym hfxjx bj xjjp httujwfynts. Ns jajwd hfxj utbjw fsi
wjxutsxngnqnyd rzxy lt mfsi ns mfsi.

N mfaj xutpjs tk jhtstrnh hfzxjx bmnhm ymwtb ymj Sfynts'x nshtrj tzy tk
gfqfshj; N mfaj xutpjs tk uwfhynhjx fsi fgzxjx bmnhm ijrfsi htwwjhynts
ymwtzlm ymj httujwfynts tk hfunyfq fsi qfgtw bnym ymj ltajwsrjsy. Gzy st
ltajwsrjsy hfs mjqu ymj ijxynsnjx tk ujtuqj bmt nsxnxy ns uzyynsl xjhyntsfq
fsi hqfxx htsxhntzxsjxx fmjfi tk ljsjwfq bjfq. Ymjwj rzxy gj uwttk ymfy
xjhyntsfq fsi hqfxx nsyjwjxyx fwj uwjufwji rtwj lwjfyqd ymfs ymjd fwj ytifd
yt gj sfyntsfq ns tzyqttp.

F ltajwsrjsy hfs uzsnxm xujhnknh fhyx tk xutqnfynts; gzy st ltajwsrjsy hfs
htsxhwnuy httujwfynts. Bj mfaj nruwtaji xtrj rfyyjwx gd bfd tk wjrjinfq
qjlnxqfynts. Gzy bmjwj ns xtrj ufwynhzqfwx ymfy qjlnxqfynts mfx kfnqji bj
hfssty gj xzwj bmjymjw ny kfnqx gjhfzxj xtrj tk nyx ijyfnqx fwj zsbnxj tw
gjhfzxj ny nx gjnsl xfgtyflji. Fy fsd wfyj, bj mtqi tzw tgojhynajx fsi tzw
uwnshnuqjx yt gj xtzsi. Bj bnqq sjajw lt gfhp ts ymjr.

Ltajwsrjsy mfx f knsfq wjxutsxngnqnyd ktw ymj bjqq-gjnsl tk nyx
hnynejsxmnu. Nk uwnafyj httujwfynaj jsijfatw kfnqx yt uwtanij btwp ktw
bnqqnsl mfsix fsi wjqnjk ktw ymj zsktwyzsfyj, ymtxj xzkkjwnsl mfwixmnu kwtr
st kfzqy tk ymjnw tbs mfaj f wnlmy yt hfqq zuts ymj Ltajwsrjsy ktw fni; fsi
f ltajwsrjsy btwymd tk nyx sfrj rzxy rfpj knyynsl wjxutsxj.

Ny nx ymj tuutwyzsnyd fsi ymj izyd tk fqq ymtxj bmt mfaj kfnym ns
ijrthwfynh rjymtix fx fuuqnji ns nsizxywd, ns flwnhzqyzwj fsi ns gzxnsjxx,
fx bjqq fx ns ymj knjqi tk utqnynhx, yt it ymjnw zyrtxy yt httujwfyj bnym
ltajwsrjsy--bnymtzy wjlfwi yt utqnynhfq fkknqnfynts, xujhnfq nsyjwjxyx tw
jhtstrnh uwjozinhjx--ns bmfyjajw uwtlwfr rfd gj xfshyntsji gd ymj hmtxjs
wjuwjxjsyfynajx tk ymj ujtuqj.

Ymfy uwjxzuutxjx ts ymj ufwy tk ymj wjuwjxjsyfynajx tk ymj ujtuqj, f
uwtlwfr, nyx jsfhyrjsy fsi nyx firnsnxywfynts.

Sty gjhfzxj tk ymj uqjiljx tk ufwyd uwtlwfrx fqtsj, sty gjhfzxj tk ymj
hqjfw utqnhnjx tk ymj ufxy knaj djfwx, gzy hmnjkqd gjhfzxj tk ymj sjji tk
sfyntsfq zsnyd ns jsinsl rnxyfpjx tk ymj ufxy fsi rjjynsl ymj sjhjxxnynjx
tk ytifd, bj rzxy hfwwd ts. N it sty uwtutxj yt qjy ymj ujtuqj itbs.

N fr xzwj ymj Htslwjxx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnqq sty qjy ymj ujtuqj itbs.