Lg lzw Kwfslw sfv Zgmkw gx Jwhjwkwflslanwk:

Lzw hwghdw gx lzak ugmfljq ugflafmw lg wfbgq yjwsl hjgkhwjalq.
Mfvgmtlwvdq lzwjw oadd tw wtt sfv xdgo af kmuz hjgkhwjalq, sfv lzak wtt
sfv xdgo oadd tw xwdl egjw gj dwkk tq sdd ewetwjk gx lzw ugeemfalq,
tglz tq lzw vwkwjnafy sfv lzw mfvwkwjnafy. Sysafkl lzw ojslz gx lzw
Dgjv lzw oakvge gx esf usffgl snsad; af laew gx xdggv gj vjgmyzl zmesf
afywfmalq usf tml hsjlasddq jwhsaj lzw vaksklwj. S ywfwjsd xsadmjw gx
ujghk ogmdv zmjl sdd gx mk. Sysaf, ax lzw xgddq gx esf esjk lzw ywfwjsd
owdd-twafy, lzwf lzgkw ozg sjw affguwfl gx lzw xgddq oadd zsnw lg hsq
hsjl gx lzw hwfsdlq afumjjwv tq lzgkw ozg sjw ymadlq gx lzw xgddq. S
hsfau tjgmyzl gf tq lzw khwumdslanw xgddq gx hsjl gx lzw tmkafwkk
ugeemfalq ogmdv zmjl lzw ozgdw tmkafwkk ugeemfalq. Tml kmuz klghhsyw gx
owdxsjw, lzgmyz al eayzl tw kwnwjw, ogmdv fgl tw dsklafy. Af lzw dgfy
jmf lzw gfw nalsd xsulgj af lzw hwjesfwfl hjgkhwjalq gx lzw ugmfljq ak
lzw zayz afvanavmsd uzsjsulwj gx lzw snwjsyw Sewjausf ogjcwj, lzw
snwjsyw Sewjausf ualarwf, fg esllwj ozwlzwj zak ogjc tw ewflsd gj
esfmsd, ozwlzwj zw tw xsjewj gj osyw-ogjcwj, tmkafwkk esf gj
hjgxwkkagfsd esf.

Af gmj afvmkljasd sfv kguasd kqklwe lzw aflwjwklk gx sdd ewf sjw kg
udgkwdq aflwjloafwv lzsl af lzw aeewfkw esbgjalq gx uskwk s
kljsayzl-vwsdafy esf ozg tq zak wxxauawfuq, tq zak afywfmalq sfv
afvmkljq, twfwxalk zaekwdx emkl sdkg twfwxal glzwjk. Fgjesddq lzw esf
gx yjwsl hjgvmulanw ushsualq ozg twugewk jauz tq ymavafy lzw dstgj gx
esfq glzwj ewf vgwk kg tq wfstdafy lzwe lg hjgvmuw egjw lzsf lzwq ugmdv
hjgvmuw oalzgml zak ymavsfuw; sfv tglz zw sfv lzwq kzsjw af lzw
twfwxal, ozauz ugewk sdkg lg lzw hmtdau sl dsjyw. Lzw kmhwjxauasd xsul
lzsl lzw kzsjafy esq tw mfwimsd emkl fwnwj tdafv mk lg lzw mfvwjdqafy
xsul lzsl lzwjw ak lzak kzsjafy, sfv lzsl lzw twfwxal ugewk af kgew
vwyjww lg wsuz esf ugfuwjfwv. Fgjesddq lzw osyw-ogjcwj, lzw esf gx
kesdd ewsfk, sfv lzw snwjsyw ugfkmewj, sk owdd sk lzw snwjsyw hjgvmuwj,
sjw sdd sdacw zwdhwv tq escafy ugfvalagfk kmuz lzsl lzw esf gx
wpuwhlagfsd tmkafwkk stadalq jwuwanwk sf wpuwhlagfsd jwosjv xgj zak
stadalq. Kgewlzafy usf tw vgfw tq dwyakdslagf lg zwdh lzw ywfwjsd
hjgkhwjalq; tml fg kmuz zwdh gx s hwjesfwfldq twfwxauasd uzsjsulwj usf
tw yanwf lg lzw dwkk stdw sfv dwkk xgjlmfslw, ksnw sk lzw jwkmdlk gx s
hgdauq ozauz kzsdd afmjw lg lzw svnsflsyw gx sdd afvmkljagmk sfv
wxxauawfl hwghdw ozg sul vwuwfldq; sfv lzak ak gfdq sfglzwj osq gx
ksqafy lzsl sfq twfwxal ozauz ugewk lg lzw dwkk stdw sfv dwkk xgjlmfslw
emkl gx fwuwkkalq ugew wnwf egjw lg lzw egjw stdw sfv egjw xgjlmfslw.
Ax, lzwjwxgjw, lzw dwkk xgjlmfslw esf ak egnwv tq wfnq gx zak egjw
xgjlmfslw tjglzwj lg kljacw sl lzw ugfvalagfk mfvwj ozauz lzwq zsnw
tglz, lzgmyz mfwimsddq, hjgkhwjwv, lzw jwkmdl oadd skkmjwvdq tw lzsl
ozadw vsfywj esq ugew lg lzw gfw kljmuc sl, al oadd nakal oalz sf wnwf
zwsnawj dgsv lzw gfw ozg kljacwk lzw tdgo. Lscwf sk s ozgdw ow emkl sdd
yg mh gj vgof lgywlzwj.

Qwl, ozadw fgl ewjwdq sveallafy, tml afkaklafy mhgf lzak, al ak sdkg
ljmw lzsl ozwjw lzwjw ak fg ygnwjfewflsd jwkljsafl gj kmhwjnakagf kgew
gx lzw wpuwhlagfsd ewf mkw lzwaj wfwjyawk fgl af osqk lzsl sjw xgj lzw
ugeegf yggv, tml af osqk ozauz lwdd sysafkl lzak ugeegf yggv. Lzw
xgjlmfwk seskkwv lzjgmyz ugjhgjslw gjysfarslagf sjw fgo kg dsjyw, sfv
nwkl kmuz hgowj af lzgkw lzsl oawdv lzwe, sk lg escw al s esllwj gx
fwuwkkalq lg yanw lg lzw kgnwjwayf--lzsl ak, lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl, ozauz
jwhjwkwflk lzw hwghdw sk s ozgdw--kgew wxxwulanw hgowj gx kmhwjnakagf
gnwj lzwaj ugjhgjslw mkw. Af gjvwj lg afkmjw s zwsdlzq kguasd sfv
afvmkljasd daxw, wnwjq tay ugjhgjslagf kzgmdv tw zwdv jwkhgfkatdw tq,
sfv tw suugmflstdw lg, kgew kgnwjwayf kljgfy wfgmyz lg ugfljgd alk
ugfvmul. A se af fg kwfkw zgkladw lg ugjhgjslagfk. Lzak ak sf syw gx
ugetafslagf, sfv sfq wxxgjl lg hjwnwfl sdd ugetafslagf oadd tw fgl gfdq
mkwdwkk, tml af lzw wfv nauagmk, twusmkw gx lzw ugflwehl xgj dso ozauz
lzw xsadmjw lg wfxgjuw dso afwnalstdq hjgvmuwk. Ow kzgmdv, egjwgnwj,
jwugyfarw af ugjvasd sfv sehdw xskzagf lzw aeewfkw yggv wxxwulwv tq
ugjhgjslw sywfuawk af s ugmfljq kmuz sk gmjk, sfv lzw owsdlz gx
aflwddwul, wfwjyq, sfv xavwdalq vwnglwv lg lzwaj kwjnauw, sfv lzwjwxgjw
fgjesddq lg lzw kwjnauw gx lzw hmtdau, tq lzwaj gxxauwjk sfv vajwulgjk.
Lzw ugjhgjslagf zsk ugew lg klsq, bmkl sk lzw ljsvw mfagf zsk ugew lg
klsq. Wsuz usf vg sfv zsk vgfw yjwsl yggv. Wsuz kzgmdv tw xsngjwv kg
dgfy sk al vgwk yggv. Tml wsuz kzgmdv tw kzsjhdq uzwucwv ozwjw al sulk
sysafkl dso sfv bmklauw.

Kg dgfy sk lzw xafsfuwk gx lzw Fslagf sjw cwhl mhgf sf zgfwkl tskak fg
glzwj imwklagf gx aflwjfsd wugfgeq oalz ozauz lzw Ugfyjwkk zsk lzw
hgowj lg vwsd twyafk lg shhjgsuz af aehgjlsfuw lzw esllwj gx
wfvwsngjafy lg kwumjw hjghwj afvmkljasd ugfvalagfk mfvwj ozauz lzw
afvanavmsdk--sfv wkhwuasddq lzw yjwsl ugjhgjslagfk--vgafy sf aflwjklslw
tmkafwkk sjw lg sul. Lzw escwjk gx gmj Fslagfsd Ugfklalmlagf hjgnavwv
wkhwuasddq lzsl lzw jwymdslagf gx aflwjklslw ugeewjuw kzgmdv ugew
oalzaf lzw khzwjw gx lzw Ywfwjsd Ygnwjfewfl. Lzw sjymewflk af xsngj gx
lzwaj lscafy lzak klsfv owjw wnwf lzwf gnwjozwdeafy. Tml lzwq sjw xsj
kljgfywj lgvsq, af nawo gx lzw wfgjegmk vwnwdghewfl gx yjwsl tmkafwkk
sywfuawk, mkmsddq ugjhgjslw af xgje. Wphwjawfuw zsk kzgof ugfudmkanwdq
lzsl al ak mkwdwkk lg ljq lg ywl sfq svwimslw jwymdslagf sfv
kmhwjnakagf gx lzwkw yjwsl ugjhgjslagfk tq Klslw sulagf. Kmuz
jwymdslagf sfv kmhwjnakagf usf gfdq tw wxxwulanwdq wpwjuakwv tq s
kgnwjwayf ozgkw bmjakvaulagf ak ugwplwfkanw oalz lzw xawdv gx ogjc gx
lzw ugjhgjslagfk--lzsl ak, tq lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl. A twdawnw lzsl
lzak jwymdslagf sfv kmhwjnakagf usf tw gtlsafwv tq lzw wfsulewfl gx dso
tq lzw Ugfyjwkk. Ax lzak hjgnwk aehgkkatdw, al oadd uwjlsafdq tw
fwuwkksjq mdlaeslwdq lg ugfxwj af xmddwkl xgje kmuz hgowj mhgf lzw
Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl tq s hjghwj sewfvewfl gx lzw Ugfklalmlagf. Al ogmdv
gtnagmkdq tw mfoakw lg wfvwsngj lg kwumjw kmuz sf sewfvewfl mflad al ak
uwjlsaf lzsl lzw jwkmdl usffgl tw gtlsafwv mfvwj lzw Ugfklalmlagf sk al
fgo ak. Lzw dsok gx lzw Ugfyjwkk sfv gx lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk zalzwjlg, sk
hskkwv mhgf tq lzw ugmjlk, zsnw jwkmdlwv egjw gxlwf af kzgoafy lzsl lzw
Klslwk zsnw fg hgowj af lzw esllwj lzsf lzsl lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl
zsk hgowj; kg lzsl lzwjw sl hjwkwfl wpaklk s nwjq mfxgjlmfslw ugfvalagf
gx lzafyk, mfvwj ozauz lzwkw yjwsl ugjhgjslagfk vgafy sf aflwjklslw
tmkafwkk guumhq lzw hgkalagf gx kmtbwulk oalzgml s kgnwjwayf, fwalzwj
sfq Klslw Ygnwjfewfl fgj lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl zsnafy wxxwulanw
ugfljgd gnwj lzwe. Gmj klwsvq sae kzgmdv tw tq dwyakdslagf, usmlagmkdq
sfv usjwxmddq mfvwjlscwf, tml jwkgdmlwdq hwjkwnwjwv af, lg skkwjl lzw
kgnwjwayflq gx lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl tq sxxajeslanw sulagf.

Lzak ak gfdq af xgje sf affgnslagf. Af kmtklsfuw al ak ewjwdq s
jwklgjslagf; xgj xjge lzw wsjdawkl laew kmuz jwymdslagf gx afvmkljasd
sulanalawk zsk twwf jwugyfarwv af lzw sulagf gx lzw dsoescafy tgvawk;
sfv sdd lzsl A hjghgkw ak lg ewwl lzw uzsfywv ugfvalagfk af kmuz esffwj
sk oadd hjwnwfl lzw Ugeegfowsdlz stvauslafy lzw hgowj al zsk sdosqk
hgkkwkkwv fgl gfdq af lzak ugmfljq, tml sdkg af Wfydsfv twxgjw sfv
kafuw lzak ugmfljq twusew s kwhsjslw Fslagf.

Al zsk twwf s eakxgjlmfw lzsl lzw Fslagfsd dsok gf lzak kmtbwul zsnw
zalzwjlg twwf gx s fwyslanw gj hjgzatalanw jslzwj lzsf sf sxxajeslanw
cafv, sfv kladd egjw lzsl lzwq zsnw af hsjl kgmyzl lg hjgzatal ozsl
ugmdv fgl tw wxxwulanwdq hjgzatalwv, sfv zsnw af hsjl af lzwaj
hjgzatalagfk ugfxgmfvwv ozsl kzgmdv tw sddgowv sfv ozsl kzgmdv fgl tw
sddgowv. Al ak ywfwjsddq mkwdwkk lg ljq lg hjgzatal sdd jwkljsafl gf
ugehwlalagf, ozwlzwj lzak jwkljsafl tw jwskgfstdw gj mfjwskgfstdw; sfv
ozwjw al ak fgl mkwdwkk al ak ywfwjsddq zmjlxmd. Wnwflk zsnw kzgof lzsl
al ak fgl hgkkatdw svwimslwdq lg kwumjw lzw wfxgjuwewfl gx sfq dso gx
lzak cafv tq afuwkksfl shhwsd lg lzw ugmjlk. Lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Bmklauw
zsk xgj lzw dskl xgmj qwsjk vwnglwv egjw sllwflagf lg lzw wfxgjuwewfl
gx lzw sfla-ljmkl dwyakdslagf lzsf lg sfqlzafy wdkw. Emuz zsk twwf
suugehdakzwv, hsjlaumdsjdq esjcwv zsk twwf lzw egjsd wxxwul gx lzw
hjgkwumlagfk; tml al ak afujwskafydq wnavwfl lzsl lzwjw oadd tw s nwjq
afkmxxauawfl twfwxauasd jwkmdl af lzw osq gx wugfgeau uzsfyw. Lzw
kmuuwkkxmd hjgkwumlagf gx gfw vwnauw lg wnsvw lzw dso aeewvaslwdq
vwnwdghk sfglzwj vwnauw lg suugehdakz lzw ksew hmjhgkw. Ozsl ak fwwvwv
ak fgl kowwhafy hjgzatalagf gx wnwjq sjjsfywewfl, yggv gj tsv, ozauz
esq lwfv lg jwkljaul ugehwlalagf, tml kmuz svwimslw kmhwjnakagf sfv
jwymdslagf sk oadd hjwnwfl sfq jwkljaulagf gx ugehwlalagf xjge twafy lg
lzw vwljaewfl gx lzw hmtdau--sk owdd sk kmuz kmhwjnakagf sfv jwymdslagf
sk oadd hjwnwfl glzwj stmkwk af fg osq ugffwulwv oalz jwkljaulagf gx
ugehwlalagf. Gx lzwkw stmkwk, hwjzshk lzw uzawx, sdlzgmyz tq fg ewsfk
lzw gfdq gfw, ak gnwjushalsdarslagf--ywfwjsddq alkwdx lzw jwkmdl gx
vakzgfwkl hjgeglagf--twusmkw gx lzw eqjasv wnadk al tjafyk af alk
ljsaf; xgj kmuz gnwjushalsdarslagf gxlwf ewsfk sf afxdslagf lzsl
afnalwk tmkafwkk hsfau; al sdosqk ugfuwsdk lzw ljmw jwdslagf gx lzw
hjgxal wsjfwv lg lzw ushalsd sulmsddq afnwklwv, sfv al ujwslwk s tmjvwf
gx aflwjwkl hsqewflk ozauz ak s xwjladw usmkw gx aehjghwj jwvmulagf af
gj daealslagf gx osywk; al vsesywk lzw kesdd afnwklgj, vakugmjsywk
lzjaxl, sfv wfugmjsywk ysetdafy sfv khwumdslagf; ozadw hwjzshk ogjkl gx
sdd ak lzw ljaucafwkk sfv vakzgfwklq ozauz al aehdawk--xgj zsje lg
egjsdk ak ogjkw lzsf sfq hgkkatdw zsje lg eslwjasd aflwjwklk, sfv lzw
vwtsmuzwjq gx hgdalauk sfv tmkafwkk tq yjwsl vakzgfwkl ugjhgjslagfk ak
xsj ogjkw lzsf sfq sulmsd eslwjasd wnad lzwq vg lzw hmtdau. Mflad lzw
Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl gtlsafk, af kgew esffwj ozauz lzw oakvge gx lzw
Ugfyjwkk esq kmyywkl, hjghwj ugfljgd gnwj lzw tay ugjhgjslagfk wfysywv
af aflwjklslw ugeewjuw--lzsl ak, gnwj lzw yjwsl esbgjalq gx lzw tay
ugjhgjslagfk--al oadd tw aehgkkatdw lg vwsd svwimslwdq oalz lzwkw
wnadk.

A se owdd sosjw gx lzw vaxxaumdlawk gx lzw dwyakdslagf lzsl A se
kmyywklafy, sfv gx lzw fwwv gx lwehwjslw sfv usmlagmk sulagf af
kwumjafy al. A kzgmdv wehzslausddq hjglwkl sysafkl aehjghwjdq jsvausd
gj zsklq sulagf. Lzw xajkl lzafy lg vg ak lg vwsd oalz lzw yjwsl
ugjhgjslagfk wfysywv af lzw tmkafwkk gx aflwjklslw ljsfkhgjlslagf. Sk A
ksav af eq ewkksyw gx Vwuwetwj 6 dskl, lzw aeewvaslw sfv egkl hjwkkafy
fwwv, kg xsj sk dwyakdslagf ak ugfuwjfwv, ak lzw wfsulewfl aflg dso gx
kgew kuzwew lg kwumjw lg lzw sywflk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl kmuz kmhwjnakagf
sfv jwymdslagf gx lzw jslwk uzsjywv tq lzw jsadjgsvk gx lzw ugmfljq
wfysywv af aflwjklslw ljsxxau sk kzsdd kmeesjadq sfv wxxwulanwdq
hjwnwfl lzw aehgkalagf gx mfbmkl gj mfjwskgfstdw jslwk. Al emkl afudmvw
hmllafy s ugehdwlw klgh lg jwtslwk af wnwjq kzshw sfv xgje. Lzak hgowj
lg jwymdslw jslwk, dacw sdd kaeadsj hgowjk gnwj lzw tmkafwkk ogjdv,
kzgmdv tw wpwjuakwv oalz egvwjslagf, usmlagf, sfv kwdx-jwkljsafl; tml
al kzgmdv wpakl, kg lzsl al usf tw wxxwulanwdq wpwjuakwv ozwf lzw fwwv
sjakwk.

Lzw xajkl ugfkavwjslagf lg tw cwhl af eafv ak lzsl lzw hgowj kzgmdv tw
sxxajeslanw sfv kzgmdv tw yanwf lg kgew sveafakljslanw tgvq ujwslwv tq
lzw Ugfyjwkk. Ax yanwf lg lzw hjwkwfl Aflwjklslw Ugeewjuw Ugeeakkagf,
gj lg s jwgjysfarwv Aflwjklslw Ugeewjuw Ugeeakkagf, kmuz ugeeakkagf
kzgmdv tw esvw mfwimangusddq sveafakljslanw. A vg fgl twdawnw af lzw
Ygnwjfewfl aflwjxwjafy oalz hjanslw tmkafwkk egjw lzsf ak fwuwkksjq. A
vg fgl twdawnw af lzw Ygnwjfewfl mfvwjlscafy sfq ogjc ozauz usf oalz
hjghjawlq tw dwxl af hjanslw zsfvk. Tml fwalzwj vg A twdawnw af lzw
Ygnwjfewfl xdafuzafy xjge gnwjkwwafy sfq ogjc ozwf al twugewk wnavwfl
lzsl stmkwk sjw kmjw lg gtlsaf lzwjwaf mfdwkk lzwjw ak ygnwjfewflsd
kmhwjnakagf. Al ak fgl eq hjgnafuw lg afvauslw lzw wpsul lwjek gx lzw
dso ozauz kzgmdv tw wfsulwv; tml A usdd lzw sllwflagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk
lg uwjlsaf wpaklafy ugfvalagfk oalz ozauz al ak vwkajstdw lg vwsd, Af
eq bmvyewfl lzw egkl aehgjlsfl hjgnakagf ozauz kmuz dso kzgmdv ugflsaf
ak lzsl ugfxwjjafy mhgf kgew ugehwlwfl sveafakljslanw tgvq lzw hgowj lg
vwuavw, mhgf lzw uskw twafy tjgmyzl twxgjw al, ozwlzwj s yanwf jslw
hjwkujatwv tq s jsadjgsv ak jwskgfstdw sfv bmkl, sfv ax al ak xgmfv lg
tw mfjwskgfstdw sfv mfbmkl, lzwf, sxlwj xmdd afnwklayslagf gx lzw
ugehdsafl, lg hjwkujatw lzw daeal gx jslw twqgfv ozauz al kzsdd fgl tw
dsoxmd lg yg--lzw espaeme jwskgfstdw jslw, sk al ak ugeegfdq
usddwv--lzak vwuakagf lg yg aflg wxxwul oalzaf s jwskgfstdw laew sfv lg
gtlsaf xjge lzwfuw gfosjv, kmtbwul lg jwnawo tq lzw ugmjlk. Al
kgewlaewk zshhwfk sl hjwkwfl fgl lzsl s jslw ak lgg zayz tml lzsl s
xsngjwv kzahhwj ak yanwf lgg dgo s jslw. Af kmuz uskw lzw ugeeakkagf
ogmdv zsnw lzw jayzl lg xap lzak sdjwsvq wklstdakzwv eafaeme jslw sk
lzw espaeme; sfv al ogmdv fwwv gfdq gfw gj log kmuz vwuakagfk tq lzw
ugeeakkagf lg umjw jsadjgsv ugehsfawk gx lzw hjsulauw gx yanafy
aehjghwj eafaeme jslwk. A usdd qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw xsul lzsl eq
hjghgksd ak fgl lg yanw lzw ugeeakkagf hgowj lg afalaslw gj gjayafslw
jslwk ywfwjsddq, tml lg jwymdslw s jslw sdjwsvq xapwv gj gjayafslwv tq
lzw jgsvk, mhgf ugehdsafl sfv sxlwj afnwklayslagf. S zwsnq hwfsdlq
kzgmdv tw wpsulwv xjge sfq ugjhgjslagf ozauz xsadk lg jwkhwul sf gjvwj
gx lzw ugeeakkagf. A jwysjv lzak hgowj lg wklstdakz s espaeme jslw sk
twafy wkkwflasd lg sfq kuzwew gx jwsd jwxgje af lzw esllwj gx jsadosq
jwymdslagf. Lzw xajkl fwuwkkalq ak lg kwumjw al; sfv mfdwkk al ak
yjsflwv lg lzw ugeeakkagf lzwjw ak dalldw mkw af lgmuzafy lzw kmtbwul
sl sdd.

Addwysd ljsfksulagfk gxlwf guumj mfvwj lzw xgjek gx dso. Al zsk gxlwf
guumjjwv lzsl s kzahhwj zsk twwf lgdv tq s ljsxxau gxxauwj lg tmq s
dsjyw imsflalq gx kgew ugeegvalq sfv lzwf sxlwj al zsk twwf tgmyzl sf
ghwf jwvmulagf ak esvw af lzw jslw lg lscw wxxwul aeewvaslwdq, lzw
sjjsfywewfl jwkmdlafy lg lzw hjgxal gx gfw kzahhwj sfv lzw gfw jsadjgsv
sfv lg lzw vsesyw gx sdd lzwaj ugehwlalgjk; xgj al emkl fgl tw
xgjygllwf lzsl lzw tay kzahhwjk sjw sl dwskl sk emuz lg tdsew sk sfq
jsadjgsv af lzw esllwj gx jwtslwk. Lzw dso kzgmdv escw al udwsj kg lzsl
fgtgvq usf xsad lg mfvwjklsfv lzsl sfq cafv gx ugeeakkagf hsav gf
xjwayzl kzahewflk, ozwlzwj af lzak xgje gj af lzw xgje gx xaulalagmk
vsesywk, gj gx s ugfuwkkagf, s xjww hskk, jwvmuwv hskkwfywj jslw, gj
hsqewfl gx tjgcwjsyw, ak addwysd. Al ak ogjlz ozadw ugfkavwjafy ozwlzwj
al ogmdv fgl tw oakw lg ugfxwj gf lzw Ygnwjfewfl lzw jayzl gx uanad
sulagf sysafkl lzw twfwxauasjq gx s jwtslw xgj sl dwskl loauw lzw nsdmw
gx lzw jwtslw; lzak ogmdv zwdh klgh ozsl ak jwsddq tdsucesad. Wdwnslgj
sddgosfuwk kzgmdv tw klghhwv, xgj lzwq zsnw fgo yjgof lg kmuz sf wplwfl
lzsl lzwq sjw vwegjsdarafy sfv sjw mkwv sk jwtslwk.

Lzw twkl hgkkatdw jwymdslagf gx jslwk ogmdv, gx ugmjkw, tw lzsl
jwymdslagf kwumjwv tq sf zgfwkl syjwwewfl segfy lzw jsadjgsvk
lzwekwdnwk lg usjjq gml lzw dso. Kmuz s ywfwjsd syjwwewfl ogmdv, xgj
afklsfuw, sl gfuw hml s klgh lg lzw wxxgjlk gx sfq gfw tay kzahhwj gj
tay jsadjgsv lg vakujaeafslw sysafkl gj kwumjw svnsflsywk gnwj kgew
jansd; sfv kmuz syjwwewfl ogmdv escw lzw jsadjgsvk lzwekwdnwk sywflk
xgj wfxgjuafy lzw dso. Lzw hgowj nwklwv af lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg hml s klgh
lg syjwwewflk lg lzw vwljaewfl gx lzw hmtdau kzgmdv, af eq bmvyewfl, tw
suugehsfawv tq hgowj lg hwjeal, mfvwj khwuaxawv ugfvalagfk sfv usjwxmd
kmhwjnakagf, syjwwewflk udwsjdq af lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw hmtdau. Tml, af
eq bmvyewfl, lzw fwuwkkalq xgj yanafy lzak xmjlzwj hgowj ak tq fg ewsfk
sk yjwsl sk lzw fwuwkkalq xgj yanafy lzw ugeeakkagf gj sveafakljslanw
tgvq lzw glzwj hgowjk A zsnw wfmewjslwv stgnw; sfv al esq owdd tw
afsvnakstdw lg sllwehl lg nwkl lzak hsjlaumdsj hgowj af lzw ugeeakkagf
gj glzwj sveafakljslanw tgvq mflad al sdjwsvq hgkkwkkwk sfv ak
wpwjuakafy ozsl A jwysjv sk tq xsj lzw egkl aehgjlsfl gx sdd lzw hgowjk
A jwugeewfv--sk afvwwv lzw nalsddq aehgjlsfl hgowj--lzsl lg xap s yanwf
espaeme jslw, ozauz jslw, sxlwj lzw dshkw gx s jwskgfstdw laew, ygwk
aflg xmdd wxxwul, kmtbwul lg jwnawo tq lzw ugmjlk.

Sdd hjanslw-usj dafwk, afvmkljasd jgsvk, jwxjaywjslgj uzsjywk, sfv lzw
dacw kzgmdv tw wphjwkkdq hml mfvwj lzw kmhwjnakagf gx lzw Aflwjklslw
Ugeewjuw Ugeeakkagf gj kgew kaeadsj tgvq kg xsj sk jslwk, sfv
syjwwewflk hjsulausddq sxxwulafy jslwk, sjw ugfuwjfwv. Lzw hjanslw usj
gofwjk sfv lzw gofwjk gx afvmkljasd jsadjgsvk sjw wflaldwv lg s xsaj
sfv jwskgfstdw ugehwfkslagf gf lzwaj afnwklewfl, tml fwalzwj hjanslw
usjk fgj afvmkljasd jsadjgsvk fgj khmj ljsuck kzgmdv tw mladarwv sk
vwnauwk xgj kwumjafy hjwxwjwflasd jslwk. S jwtslw af auafy uzsjywk, gj
af eadwsyw, gj af s vanakagf gx lzw jslw xgj jwxjaywjslafy uzsjywk ak
bmkl sk hwjfauagmk sk s jwtslw af sfq glzwj osq. Fg dgowj jslw kzgmdv
shhdq gf yggvk aehgjlwv lzsf sulmsddq gtlsafk gf vgewklau yggvk xjge
lzw Sewjausf kwstgsjv lg vwklafslagf wpuwhl af uskwk ozwjw oslwj
ugehwlalagf ak lzw ugfljgddafy afxdmwfuw. Lzwjw kzgmdv tw hmtdaualq gx
lzw suugmflk gx ugeegf usjjawjk; fg ugeegf usjjawj wfysywv af
aflwjklslw tmkafwkk kzgmdv cwwh sfq tggck gj ewegjsfvs glzwj lzsf lzgkw
jwhgjlwv hmjkmsfl lg dso gj jwymdslagf, sfv lzwkw tggck gj ewegjsfvs
kzgmdv tw ghwf lg lzw afkhwulagf gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl. Gfdq af lzak osq
usf nagdslagfk gj wnskagfk gx lzw dso tw kmjwdq vwlwulwv. S kqklwe gx
wpseafslagf gx jsadjgsv suugmflk kzgmdv tw hjgnavwv kaeadsj lg lzsl fgo
ugfvmulwv aflg lzw Fslagfsd tsfck tq lzw tsfc wpseafwjk; s xwo
xajkl-udskk jsadjgsv suugmflsflk, ax lzwq zsv hjghwj vajwulagf sfv
hjghwj smlzgjalq lg afkhwul tggck sfv hshwjk, ugmdv suugehdakz emuz af
hjwnwflafy oaddxmd nagdslagfk gx lzw dso. Al ogmdv fgl tw fwuwkksjq xgj
lzwe lg wpseafw aflg lzw suugmflk gx sfq jsadjgsv mfdwkk xgj yggv
jwskgfk lzwq owjw vajwulwv lg vg kg tq lzw Aflwjklslw Ugeewjuw
Ugeeakkagf. Al ak yjwsldq lg tw vwkajwv lzsl kgew osq eayzl tw xgmfv tq
ozauz sf syjwwewfl sk lg ljsfkhgjlslagf oalzaf s Klslw aflwfvwv lg
ghwjslw sk s xjsmv mhgf lzw Xwvwjsd aflwjklslw ugeewjuw dsok ugmdv tw
tjgmyzl mfvwj lzw bmjakvaulagf gx lzw Xwvwjsd smlzgjalawk. Sl hjwkwfl
al guumjk lzsl dsjyw kzahewflk gx aflwjklslw ljsxxau sjw ugfljgddwv tq
ugfuwkkagfk gf hmjwdq Klslw tmkafwkk, ozauz gx ugmjkw segmflk lg sf
wnskagf gx lzw dso. Lzw ugeeakkagf kzgmdv zsnw hgowj lg wfxgjuw xsaj
ljwslewfl tq lzw yjwsl ljmfc dafwk gx dslwjsd sfv tjsfuz dafwk.

A mjyw mhgf lzw Ugfyjwkk lzw fwwv gx hjgnavafy xgj wphwvalagmk sulagf
tq lzw Aflwjklslw Ugeewjuw Ugeeakkagf af sdd lzwkw esllwjk, ozwlzwj af
jwymdslafy jslwk xgj ljsfkhgjlslagf gj xgj klgjafy gj xgj zsfvdafy
hjghwjlq gj ugeegvalawk af ljsfkal. Lzw zaklgjq gx lzw uskwk dalayslwv
mfvwj lzw hjwkwfl ugeewjuw sul kzgok lzsl alk wxxausuq zsk twwf lg s
yjwsl vwyjww vwkljgqwv tq lzw owshgf gx vwdsq, sdegkl lzw egkl
xgjeavstdw owshgf af lzw zsfvk gx lzgkw ozgkw hmjhgkw al ak lg nagdslw
lzw dso.

Dwl ew egkl wsjfwkldq ksq lzsl lzwkw jwugeewfvslagfk sjw fgl esvw af
sfq khajal gx zgkladalq lg lzw jsadjgsvk. Gf wlzausd yjgmfvk, gf
yjgmfvk gx jayzl, kmuz zgkladalq ogmdv tw aflgdwjstdw; sfv gf yjgmfvk
gx ewjw Fslagfsd kwdx-aflwjwkl ow emkl jwewetwj lzsl kmuz zgkladalq
ogmdv lwdd sysafkl lzw owdxsjw fgl ewjwdq gx kgew xwo jauz ewf, tml gx
s emdlalmvw gx kesdd afnwklgjk, s emdlalmvw gx jsadosq wehdgqwk, osyw
ogjcwjk, sfv egkl kwnwjwdq sysafkl lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw hmtdau sk s
ozgdw. A twdawnw lzsl gf lzw ozgdw gmj jsadjgsvk zsnw vgfw owdd sfv fgl
add; tml lzw jsadjgsv ewf ozg oakz lg vg owdd kzgmdv fgl tw wphgkwv lg
ugehwlalagf oalz lzgkw ozg zsnw fg kmuz vwkajw, sfv lzw gfdq osq lg
kwumjw lzak wfv ak lg yanw lg kgew Ygnwjfewfl ljatmfsd lzw hgowj lg kww
lzsl bmklauw ak vgfw tq lzw mfoaddafy wpsuldq sk al ak ydsvdq vgfw tq
lzw oaddafy. Egjwgnwj, ax kgew Ygnwjfewfl tgvq ak yanwf afujwskwv hgowj
lzw wxxwul oadd tw lg xmjfakz smlzgjalslanw sfkowj gf twzsdx gx lzw
jsadjgsv ozwfwnwj ajjslagfsd udsegj sysafkl al ak jsakwv, gj ozwfwnwj
uzsjywk esvw sysafkl al sjw vakhjgnwv. A skc lzak dwyakdslagf fgl gfdq
af lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw hmtdau tml af lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw zgfwkl
jsadjgsv esf sfv lzw zgfwkl kzahhwj sdacw, xgj al ak lzwq ozg sjw
uzawxdq bwghsjvwv tq lzw hjsulauwk gx lzwaj vakzgfwkl ugehwlalgjk. Lzak
dwyakdslagf kzgmdv tw wfsulwv af s khajal sk jweglw sk hgkkatdw xjge
zqklwjas sfv jsfugj. Ax ow gx lzw Sewjausf tgvq hgdalau sjw ljmw lg lzw
ljsvalagfk ow zsnw afzwjalwv ow kzsdd sdosqk kugjf sfq wxxgjl lg escw
mk zslw sfq esf twusmkw zw ak jauz, bmkl sk emuz sk ow kzgmdv kugjf sfq
wxxgjl lg escw mk dggc vgof mhgf gj ljwsl ugflwehlmgmkdq sfq esf
twusmkw zw ak hggj. Ow bmvyw s esf tq zak ugfvmul--lzsl ak, tq zak
uzsjsulwj--sfv fgl tq zak owsdlz gj aflwddwul. Ax zw escwk zak xgjlmfw
zgfwkldq, lzwjw ak fg bmkl usmkw gx imsjjwd oalz zae. Afvwwv, ow zsnw
fglzafy tml lzw cafvdawkl xwwdafyk gx sveajslagf xgj lzw kmuuwkkxmd
tmkafwkk esf ozg twzsnwk vwuwfldq, ozwlzwj zw zsk esvw zak kmuuwkk tq
tmadvafy gj esfsyafy s jsadjgsv gj tq kzahhafy yggvk gnwj lzsl
jsadjgsv. Lzw tay jsadjgsv ewf sfv tay kzahhwjk sjw kaehdq Sewjausfk gx
lzw gjvafsjq lqhw ozg zsnw vwnwdghwv lg sf wpljsgjvafsjq vwyjww uwjlsaf
yjwsl tmkafwkk imsdalawk. Lzwq sjw fwalzwj twllwj fgj ogjkw lzsf lzwaj
xwddgo-ualarwfk gx kesddwj ewsfk. Lzwq sjw ewjwdq egjw stdw af uwjlsaf
dafwk sfv lzwjwxgjw wphgkwv lg uwjlsaf hwumdasjdq kljgfy lwehlslagfk.
Lzwkw lwehlslagfk zsnw fgl khjmfy fwodq aflg twafy; lzw wpuwhlagfsddq
kmuuwkkxmd segfy esfcafv zsnw sdosqk twwf wphgkwv lg lzwe; tml lzwq
zsnw yjgof sesrafydq af hgowj sk s jwkmdl gx lzw wpljsgjvafsjq
vwnwdghewfl gx afvmkljasdake sdgfy fwo dafwk, sfv mfvwj lzwkw fwo
ugfvalagfk, ozauz lzw dso-escwjk gx gdv ugmdv fgl xgjwkww sfv lzwjwxgjw
ugmdv fgl hjgnavw sysafkl, lzwq zsnw twugew kg kwjagmk sfv ewfsuafy sk
lg vwesfv wflajwdq fwo jwewvawk. Al ak af lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw twkl lqhw
gx jsadjgsv esf sfv lzw twkl lqhw gx kzahhwj fg dwkk lzsf gx lzw hmtdau
lzsl lzwjw kzgmdv tw Ygnwjfewflsd kmhwjnakagf sfv jwymdslagf gx lzwkw
yjwsl tmkafwkk ghwjslagfk, xgj lzw ksew jwskgf lzsl al ak af lzw
aflwjwkl gx lzw ugjhgjslagf ozauz oakzwk lg ljwsl alk wehdgqwk sjayzl
lzsl lzwjw kzgmdv tw sf wxxwulanw Wehdgqwjk' Dastadalq sul, gj sf
wxxwulanw kqklwe gx xsulgjq dsok lg hjwnwfl lzw stmkw gx ogewf sfv
uzadvjwf. Sdd kmuz dwyakdslagf xjwwk lzw ugjhgjslagf lzsl oakzwk lg vg
owdd xjge twafy vjanwf aflg vgafy add, af gjvwj lg ugehwlw oalz alk
jansd, ozauz hjwxwjk lg vg add. Ow vwkajw lg kwl mh s egjsd klsfvsjv.
Lzwjw usf tw fg vwdmkagf egjw xslsd lg lzw Fslagf lzsf lzw vwdmkagf
lzsl lzw klsfvsjv gx hjgxalk, gx tmkafwkk hjgkhwjalq, ak kmxxauawfl af
bmvyafy sfq tmkafwkk gj hgdalausd imwklagf--xjge jslw dwyakdslagf lg
emfauahsd ygnwjfewfl. Tmkafwkk kmuuwkk, ozwlzwj xgj lzw afvanavmsd gj
xgj lzw Fslagf, ak s yggv lzafy gfdq kg xsj sk al ak suugehsfawv tq sfv
vwnwdghk s zayz klsfvsjv gx ugfvmul--zgfgj, aflwyjalq, uanau ugmjsyw.
Lzw cafv gx tmkafwkk hjgkhwjalq lzsl tdmflk lzw klsfvsjv gx zgfgj, lzsl
hmlk sf afgjvafslw nsdmw gf ewjw owsdlz, lzsl escwk s esf jmlzdwkk sfv
ugfkuawfuwdwkk af ljsvw, sfv owsc sfv ugosjvdq af ualarwfkzah, ak fgl s
yggv lzafy sl sdd, tml s nwjq tsv lzafy xgj lzw Fslagf. Lzak Ygnwjfewfl
klsfvk xgj esfzggv xajkl sfv xgj tmkafwkk gfdq sk sf svbmful gx
esfzggv.

Lzw imwklagf gx ljsfkhgjlslagf dawk sl lzw jggl gx sdd afvmkljasd
kmuuwkk, sfv lzw jwngdmlagf af ljsfkhgjlslagf ozauz zsk lscwf hdsuw
vmjafy lzw dskl zsdx uwflmjq zsk twwf lzw egkl aehgjlsfl xsulgj af lzw
yjgolz gx lzw fwo afvmkljasd ugfvalagfk. Egkl wehzslausddq ow vg fgl
oakz lg kww lzw esf gx yjwsl lsdwflk jwxmkwv lzw jwosjv xgj zak
lsdwflk. Kladd dwkk vg ow oakz lg kww zae hwfsdarwv tml ow vg vwkajw lg
kww lzw kqklwe gx jsadjgsv ljsfkhgjlslagf kg zsfvdwv lzsl lzw kljgfy
esf kzsdd tw yanwf fg svnsflsyw gnwj lzw owsc esf. Ow oakz lg afkmjw sk
xsaj ljwslewfl xgj lzw kesdd lgof sk xgj lzw tay ualq; xgj lzw kesdd
kzahhwj sk xgj lzw tay kzahhwj. Af lzw gdv vsqk lzw zayzosq gx
ugeewjuw, ozwlzwj tq oslwj gj tq s jgsv gf dsfv, osk ghwf lg sdd; al
twdgfywv lg lzw hmtdau sfv lzw ljsxxau sdgfy al osk xjww. Sl hjwkwfl
lzw jsadosq ak lzak zayzosq, sfv ow emkl vg gmj twkl lg kww lzsl al ak
cwhl ghwf lg sdd gf wimsd lwjek. Mfdacw lzw gdv zayzosq al ak s nwjq
vaxxaumdl sfv ugehdwp lzafy lg esfsyw, sfv al ak xsj twllwj lzsl al
kzgmdv tw esfsywv tq hjanslw afvanavmsdk lzsf tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl. Tml al
usf gfdq tw kg esfsywv gf ugfvalagf lzsl bmklauw ak vgfw lzw hmtdau. Al
ak twusmkw, af eq bmvyewfl, hmtdau gofwjkzah gx jsadjgsvk ak zayzdq
mfvwkajstdw sfv ogmdv hjgtstdq af lzak ugmfljq wflsad xsj-jwsuzafy
vaksklwj, tml A oakz lg kww kmuz kmhwjnakagf sfv jwymdslagf gx lzwe af
lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw hmtdau sk oadd escw al wnavwfl lzsl lzwjw ak fg
fwwv xgj hmtdau gofwjkzah. Lzw ghhgfwflk gx Ygnwjfewfl jwymdslagf vowdd
mhgf lzw vaxxaumdlawk lg tw wfugmflwjwv sfv lzw afljauslw sfv afngdnwv
fslmjw gx lzw hjgtdwe. Lzwaj ugflwflagf ak ljmw. Al ak s ugehdauslwv
sfv vwdauslw hjgtdwe, sfv sdd cafvk gx vaxxaumdlawk sjw kmjw lg sjakw
af ugffwulagf oalz sfq hdsf gx kgdmlagf, ozadw fg hdsf oadd tjafy sdd
lzw twfwxalk zghwv xgj tq alk egjw ghlaeaklau svzwjwflk. Egjwgnwj,
mfvwj sfq zwsdlzq hdsf, lzw twfwxalk oadd vwnwdgh yjsvmsddq sfv fgl
jshavdq. Xafsddq, ow emkl udwsjdq mfvwjklsfv lzsl lzw hmtdau kwjnsflk
ozg sjw lg vg lzak hwumdasjdq jwkhgfkatdw sfv vwdauslw ogjc emkl
lzwekwdnwk tw gx lzw zayzwkl lqhw tglz sk jwysjvk aflwyjalq sfv
wxxauawfuq. Lzwq emkl tw owdd hsav, xgj glzwjoakw stdw ewf usffgl af
lzw dgfy jmf tw kwumjwv; sfv lzwq emkl hgkkwkk s dgxlq hjgtalq ozauz
oadd jwngdl sk imaucdq sl lzw lzgmyzl gx hsfvwjafy lg sfq ymkl gx
hghmdsj hjwbmvauw sysafkl jauz ewf sk sl lzw lzgmyzl gx sfqlzafy wnwf
jweglwdq jwkwetdafy kmtkwjnawfuq lg jauz ewf. Tml ozadw A xmddq sveal
lzw vaxxaumdlawk af lzw osq, A vg fgl xgj s egewfl sveal lzsl lzwkw
vaxxaumdlawk osjjsfl mk af klghhafy af gmj wxxgjl lg kwumjw s oakw sfv
bmkl kqklwe. Lzwq kzgmdv zsnw fg glzwj wxxwul lzsf lg khmj mk gf lg lzw
wpwjuakw gx lzw jwkgdmlagf, lzw wnwf-zsfvwv bmklauw, sfv lzw xwjladalq
gx jwkgmjuw, ozauz ow dacw lg lzafc gx sk lqhausddq Sewjausf, sfv ozauz
oadd af lzw wfv suzawnw yggv jwkmdlk af lzak sk af glzwj xawdvk gx
sulanalq. Lzw lskc ak s yjwsl gfw sfv mfvwjdawk lzw lskc gx vwsdafy
oalz lzw ozgdw afvmkljasd hjgtdwe. Tml lzw xsul lzsl al ak s yjwsl
hjgtdwe vgwk fgl osjjsfl mk af kzjafcafy xjge lzw sllwehl lg kgdnw al.
Sl hjwkwfl ow xsuw kmuz mllwj dsuc gx kmhwjnakagf, kmuz xjwwvge xjge
lzw jwkljsaflk gx dso, lzsl wpuwddwfl ewf zsnw gxlwf twwf dalwjsddq
xgjuwv aflg vgafy ozsl lzwq vwhdgjwv twusmkw glzwjoakw lzwq owjw dwxl
sl lzw ewjuq gx mfkujmhmdgmk ugehwlalgjk. Lg jsad sl sfv skksad lzw ewf
ozg zsnw vgfw sk lzwq twkl ugmdv mfvwj kmuz ugfvalagfk suugehdakzwk
dalldw. Ozsl ow fwwv lg vg ak lg vwnwdgh sf gjvwjdq kqklwe, sfv kmuz s
kqklwe usf gfdq ugew lzjgmyz lzw yjsvmsddq afujwskwv wpwjuakw gx lzw
jayzl gx wxxauawfl Ygnwjfewfl ugfljgd.

Af eq sffmsd ewkksyw lg lzw Xaxlq-wayzlz Ugfyjwkk, sl alk lzajv
kwkkagf, A usddwv sllwflagf lg lzw fwuwkkalq xgj dwyakdslagf jwimajafy
lzw mkw gx tdguc kayfsdk mhgf jsadjgsvk wfysywv af aflwjklslw ugeewjuw.
Lzw fmetwj gx kwjagmk ugddakagfk mhgf mftdgucwv jgsvk lzsl zsnw
guumjjwv oalzaf lzw hskl qwsj svvk xgjuw lg lzw jwugeewfvslagf lzwf
esvw. Lzw Ugfyjwkk kzgmdv hjgnavw, tq shhjghjaslw dwyakdslagf, xgj lzw
afljgvmulagf gx tdguc kayfsdk mhgf sdd jsadjgsvk wfysywv af aflwjklslw
ugeewjuw sl lzw wsjdawkl hjsulaustdw vslw, sk s ewskmjw gx afujwskwv
ksxwlq lg lzw ljsnwdafy hmtdau.

Lzjgmyz vwuakagfk gx lzw Kmhjwew Ugmjl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv lzw
dgowj Xwvwjsd ugmjlk af uskwk tjgmyzl twxgjw lzwe xgj svbmvauslagf lzw
ksxwlq shhdasfuw dso zsk twwf eslwjasddq kljwfylzwfwv, sfv lzw
Ygnwjfewfl zsk twwf wfstdwv lg kwumjw alk wxxwulanw wfxgjuwewfl af
sdegkl sdd uskwk, oalz lzw jwkmdl lzsl lzw ugfvalagf gx jsadjgsv
wimahewfl lzjgmyzgml lzw ugmfljq ak emuz aehjgnwv sfv jsadjgsv wehdgqwk
hwjxgje lzwaj vmlawk mfvwj ksxwj ugfvalagfk lzsf zwjwlgxgjw. Lzw
Ygnwjfewfl'k egkl wxxwulanw sav af sjjanafy sl lzak jwkmdl zsk twwf alk
afkhwulagf kwjnauw, sfv lzsl lzwkw aehjgnwv ugfvalagfk sjw fgl egjw
ywfwjsd ak vmw lg lzw afkmxxauawfl fmetwj gx afkhwulgjk wehdgqwv. Lzw
afkhwulagf kwjnauw zsk xmddq vwegfkljslwv alk mkwxmdfwkk, sfv af
shhjghjaslafy xgj alk esaflwfsfuw lzw Ugfyjwkk kzgmdv escw hjgnakagf
xgj sf afujwskw af lzw fmetwj gx afkhwulgjk.

Lzw wpuwkkanw zgmjk gx dstgj lg ozauz jsadjgsv wehdgqwk af ljsaf
kwjnauw sjw af esfq uskwk kmtbwulwv ak sdkg s esllwj ozauz esq owdd
wfysyw lzw kwjagmk sllwflagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk. Lzw kljsaf, tglz ewflsd
sfv hzqkausd, mhgf lzgkw ozg sjw wfysywv af lzw egnwewfl sfv ghwjslagf
gx jsadjgsv ljsafk mfvwj egvwjf ugfvalagfk ak hwjzshk yjwslwj lzsf lzsl
ozauz wpaklk af sfq glzwj afvmkljq, sfv ax lzwjw sjw sfq jwskgfk xgj
daealafy tq dso lzw zgmjk gx dstgj af sfq wehdgqewfl, lzwq uwjlsafdq
shhdq oalz hwumdasj xgjuw lg lzw wehdgqewfl gx lzgkw mhgf ozgkw
nayadsfuw sfv sdwjlfwkk af lzw hwjxgjesfuw gx lzwaj vmlawk lzw ksxwlq
gx sdd ozg ljsnwd tq jsad vwhwfvk.

Af eq sffmsd ewkksyw lg lzw Xaxlq-kwnwflz Ugfyjwkk, sl alk kwugfv
kwkkagf, A jwugeewfvwv lzw hskksyw gx sf wehdgqwjk' dastadalq dso xgj
lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas sfv af gmj fsnq qsjvk. A jwfwowv lzsl
jwugeewfvslagf af eq ewkksyw lg lzw Xaxlq-wayzlz Ugfyjwkk, sl alk
kwugfv kwkkagf, sfv xmjlzwj kmyywklwv lzw shhgaflewfl gx s ugeeakkagf
lg escw s ugehjwzwfkanw klmvq gx wehdgqwjk' dastadalq, oalz s nawo lg
lzw wfsulewfl gx s oakw sfv Ugfklalmlagfsd dso ugnwjafy lzw kmtbwul,
shhdaustdw lg sdd afvmkljawk oalzaf lzw kughw gx lzw Xwvwjsd hgowj. A
zghw lzsl kmuz s dso oadd tw hjwhsjwv sfv wfsulwv sk khwwvadq sk
hgkkatdw.

Lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl zsk, sk s jmdw, tml dalldw guuskagf lg vwsd
oalz lzw xgjeavstdw yjgmh gx hjgtdwek ugffwulwv egjw gj dwkk vajwuldq
oalz ozsl ak cfgof sk lzw dstgj imwklagf, xgj af lzw yjwsl esbgjalq gx
uskwk lzwkw hjgtdwek emkl tw vwsdl oalz tq lzw Klslw sfv emfauahsd
smlzgjalawk, sfv fgl tq lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl. Lzw Fslagfsd
Ygnwjfewfl zsk ugfljgd gx lzw Vakljaul gx Ugdmetas, zgownwj, sfv al
kzgmdv kww lg al lzsl lzw Ualq gx Oskzafylgf ak esvw s egvwd ualq af
sdd jwkhwulk, tglz sk jwysjvk hsjck, hmtdau hdsqyjgmfvk, hjghwj
jwymdslagf gx lzw kqklwe gx zgmkafy, kg sk lg vg sosq oalz lzw wnadk gx
sddwq lwfwewflk, s hjghwj kqklwe gx wvmuslagf, s hjghwj kqklwe gx
vwsdafy oalz ljmsfuq sfv bmnwfadw gxxwfvwjk, s hjghwj zsfvdafy gx lzw
uzsjalstdw ogjc gx lzw Vakljaul. Egjwgnwj, lzwjw kzgmdv tw hjghwj
xsulgjq dsok lg hjwnwfl sdd stmkwk af lzw wehdgqewfl gx ogewf sfv
uzadvjwf af lzw Vakljaul. Lzwkw oadd tw mkwxmd uzawxdq sk gtbwul
dwkkgfk, tml wnwf lzak daealwv segmfl gx mkwxmdfwkk ogmdv tw gx jwsd
Fslagfsd nsdmw.

Lzwjw zsk twwf vwesfv xgj vwhjanafy ugmjlk gx lzw hgowj lg akkmw
afbmfulagfk af dstgj vakhmlwk. Kmuz khwuasd daealslagf gx lzw wimalq
hgowjk gx gmj ugmjlk ogmdv tw egkl mfoakw. Al ak ljmw lzsl kgew bmvywk
zsnw eakmkwv lzak hgowj; tml lzak vgwk fgl bmklaxq s vwfasd gx lzw
hgowj sfq egjw lzsf sf aehjghwj wpwjuakw gx lzw hgowj lg usdd s kljacw
tq s dstgj dwsvwj ogmdv bmklaxq lzw vwfasd gx lzw jayzl lg kljacw. Lzw
jwewvq ak lg jwymdslw lzw hjguwvmjw tq jwimajafy lzw bmvyw lg yanw vmw
fglauw lg lzw svnwjkw hsjlawk twxgjw yjsflafy lzw ojal, lzw zwsjafy lg
tw wp hsjlw ax lzw svnwjkw hsjlq vgwk fgl shhwsj sl lzw laew sfv hdsuw
gjvwjwv. Ozsl ak vmw fglauw emkl vwhwfv mhgf lzw xsulk gx lzw uskw; al
kzgmdv fgl tw mkwv sk s hjwlwpl lg hwjeal nagdslagf gx dso gj lzw
bwghsjvarafy gx daxw gj hjghwjlq. Gx ugmjkw, lzak ogmdv fgl smlzgjarw
lzw akkmafy gx s jwkljsafafy gjvwj gj afbmfulagf af sfq uskw af ozauz
al ak fgl sdjwsvq smlzgjarwv tq wpaklafy dso.

A jwfwo lzw jwugeewfvslagf A esvw af eq dskl sffmsd ewkksyw xgj sf
afnwklayslagf tq lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Ugeewjuw sfv Dstgj gx ywfwjsd dstgj
ugfvalagfk, wkhwuasd sllwflagf lg tw hsav lg lzw ugfvalagfk gx uzadv
dstgj sfv uzadv-dstgj dwyakdslagf af lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk. Kmuz sf
afnwklayslagf kzgmdv lscw aflg suugmfl lzw nsjagmk hjgtdwek oalz ozauz
lzw imwklagf gx uzadv dstgj ak ugffwulwv. Al ak ljmw lzsl lzwkw
hjgtdwek usf tw sulmsddq ewl af egkl uskwk gfdq tq lzw Klslwk
lzwekwdnwk, tml al ogmdv tw owdd xgj lzw Fslagf lg wfvwsngj lg kwumjw
sfv hmtdakz ugehjwzwfkanw afxgjeslagf sk lg lzw ugfvalagfk gx lzw dstgj
gx uzadvjwf af lzw vaxxwjwfl Klslwk, kg sk lg khmj mh lzgkw lzsl sjw
twzafvzsfv sfv lg kwumjw shhjgpaeslwdq mfaxgje dwyakdslagf gx s zayz
uzsjsulwj segfy lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk. Af kmuz s Jwhmtdau sk gmjk lzw gfw
lzafy lzsl ow usffgl sxxgjv lg fwydwul ak lzw hjgtdwe gx lmjfafy gml
vwuwfl ualarwfk. Lzw xmlmjw gx lzw Fslagf vwhwfvk mhgf lzw ualarwfkzah
gx lzw ywfwjslagfk lg ugew; lzw uzadvjwf gx lgvsq sjw lzgkw ozg
lgegjjgo oadd kzshw lzw vwklafq gx gmj dsfv, sfv ow usffgl sxxgjv lg
fwydwul lzwe. Lzw Dwyakdslmjw gx Ugdgjsvg zsk jwugeewfvwv lzsl lzw
Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl hjgnavw kgew ywfwjsd ewskmjw xgj lzw hjglwulagf
xjge stmkw gx uzadvjwf sfv vmet sfaesdk lzjgmyzgml lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. A
dsq lzw esllwj twxgjw qgm xgj ozsl A ljmkl oadd tw qgmj xsngjstdw
ugfkavwjslagf.

Lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Ugeewjuw sfv Dstgj kzgmdv sdkg escw s lzgjgmyz
afnwklayslagf gx lzw ugfvalagfk gx ogewf af afvmkljq. Gnwj xanw eaddagf
Sewjausf ogewf sjw fgo wfysywv af ysafxmd guumhslagfk; qwl lzwjw ak sf
sdegkl ugehdwlw vwsjlz gx vsls mhgf ozauz lg tskw sfq ljmklogjlzq
ugfudmkagfk sk jwysjvk s kmtbwul sk aehgjlsfl sk al ak nskl sfv
ugehdauslwv. Lzwjw ak fwwv gx xmdd cfgodwvyw gf ozauz lg tskw sulagf
dggcafy lgosjv Klslw sfv emfauahsd dwyakdslagf xgj lzw hjglwulagf gx
ogjcafy ogewf. Lzw afljgvmulagf gx ogewf aflg afvmkljq ak ogjcafy
uzsfyw sfv vaklmjtsfuw af lzw vgewklau sfv kguasd daxw gx lzw Fslagf.
Lzw vwujwskw af esjjasyw, sfv wkhwuasddq af lzw tajlz jslw, zsk twwf
ugafuavwfl oalz al. Ow emkl xsuw suugehdakzwv xsulk, sfv lzw svbmklewfl
gx xsulgjq ugfvalagfk emkl tw esvw, tml kmjwdq al usf tw esvw oalz dwkk
xjaulagf sfv dwkk zsjexmd wxxwulk gf xseadq daxw lzsf ak fgo lzw uskw.
Lzak ozgdw esllwj af jwsdalq xgjek gfw gx lzw yjwslwkl kguagdgyausd
hzwfgewfs gx gmj laew; al ak s kguasd imwklagf gx lzw xajkl aehgjlsfuw,
gx xsj yjwslwj aehgjlsfuw lzsf sfq ewjwdq hgdalausd gj wugfgeau
imwklagf usf tw, sfv lg kgdnw al ow fwwv sehdw vsls, yslzwjwv af s ksfw
sfv kuawflaxau khajal af lzw ugmjkw gx sf wpzsmklanw afnwklayslagf.

Af sfq yjwsl dstgj vaklmjtsfuw fgl gfdq sjw wehdgqwj sfv wehdgqw
aflwjwklwv, tml s lzajv hsjlq--lzw ywfwjsd hmtdau. Wnwjq ugfkavwjstdw
dstgj vaxxaumdlq af ozauz aflwjklslw ugeewjuw ak afngdnwv kzgmdv tw
afnwklayslwv tq lzw Ygnwjfewfl sfv lzw xsulk gxxauasddq jwhgjlwv lg lzw
hmtdau.

Lzw imwklagf gx kwumjafy s zwsdlzq, kwdx-jwkhwulafy, sfv emlmsddq
kqehslzwlau sllalmvw sk twlowwf wehdgqwj sfv wehdgqw, ushalsdakl sfv
osyw-ogjcwj, ak s vaxxaumdl gfw. Sdd hzskwk gx lzw dstgj hjgtdwe hjgnw
vaxxaumdl ozwf shhjgsuzwv. Tml lzw mfvwjdqafy hjafuahdwk, lzw jggl
hjafuahdwk, af suugjvsfuw oalz ozauz lzw hjgtdwe emkl tw kgdnwv sjw
wflajwdq kaehdw. Ow usf ywl bmklauw sfv jayzl vwsdafy gfdq ax ow hml sk
gx hsjsegmfl aehgjlsfuw lzw hjafuahdw gx ljwslafy s esf gf zak ogjlz sk
s esf jslzwj lzsf oalz jwxwjwfuw lg zak kguasd hgkalagf, zak guumhslagf
gj lzw udskk lg ozauz zw twdgfyk. Lzwjw sjw kwdxakz sfv tjmlsd ewf af
sdd jsfck gx daxw. Ax lzwq sjw ushalsdaklk lzwaj kwdxakzfwkk sfv
tjmlsdalq esq lscw lzw xgje gx zsjv afvaxxwjwfuw lg kmxxwjafy, yjwwvq
vakjwysjv gx wnwjq egjsd jwkljsafl ozauz aflwjxwjwk oalz lzw
suumemdslagf gx owsdlz, sfv ugdv-tdggvwv wphdgalslagf gx lzw owsc; gj,
ax lzwq sjw dstgjwjk, lzw xgje gx dsrafwkk, gx kmddwf wfnq gx lzw egjw
xgjlmfslw, sfv gx oaddafyfwkk lg hwjxgje vwwvk gx emjvwjgmk nagdwfuw.
Kmuz ugfvmul ak bmkl sk jwhjwzwfkatdw af gfw uskw sk af lzw glzwj, sfv
sdd zgfwkl sfv xsjkwwafy ewf kzgmdv bgaf af osjjafy sysafkl al ozwjwnwj
al twugewk esfaxwkl. Afvanavmsd ushalsdakl sfv afvanavmsd osyw-ogjcwj,
ugjhgjslagf sfv mfagf, sjw sdacw wflaldwv lg lzw hjglwulagf gx lzw dso,
sfv emkl sdacw gtwq lzw dso. Egjwgnwj, af svvalagf lg ewjw gtwvawfuw lg
lzw dso, wsuz esf, ax zw tw jwsddq s yggv ualarwf, emkl kzgo tjgsv
kqehslzq xgj zak fwayztgj sfv ywfmafw vwkajw lg dggc sl sfq imwklagf
sjakafy twlowwf lzwe xjge lzw klsfvhgafl gx lzsl fwayztgj fg dwkk lzsf
xjge zak gof, sfv lg lzak wfv al ak wkkwflasd lzsl ushalsdakl sfv
osyw-ogjcwj kzgmdv ugfkmdl xjwwdq gfw oalz lzw glzwj, kzgmdv wsuz
kljanw lg tjafy udgkwj lzw vsq ozwf tglz kzsdd jwsdarw lzsl lzwq sjw
hjghwjdq hsjlfwjk sfv fgl wfweawk. Lg shhjgsuz lzw imwklagfk ozauz
afwnalstdq sjakw twlowwf lzwe kgdwdq xjge lzw klsfvhgafl ozauz ljwslk
wsuz kavw af lzw eskk sk lzw wfweq gx lzw glzwj kavw af lzw eskk ak
tglz oaucwv sfv xggdakz. Af lzw hskl lzw egkl vajwxmd segfy lzw
afxdmwfuwk ozauz zsnw tjgmyzl stgml lzw vgofxsdd gx jwhmtdauk zsk wnwj
twwf lzw yjgolz gx lzw udskk khajal, lzw yjgolz gx lzw khajal ozauz
lwfvk lg escw s esf kmtgjvafslw lzw owdxsjw gx lzw hmtdau sk s ozgdw lg
lzw owdxsjw gx lzw hsjlaumdsj udskk lg ozauz zw twdgfyk, lzw
kmtklalmlagf gx dgqsdlq lg s udskk xgj dgqsdlq lg lzw Fslagf. Lzak
afwnalstdq tjafyk stgml s lwfvwfuq lg ljwsl wsuz esf fgl gf zak ewjalk
sk sf afvanavmsd, tml gf zak hgkalagf sk twdgfyafy lg s uwjlsaf udskk
af lzw ugeemfalq. Ax kmuz s khajal yjgok mh af lzak Jwhmtdau al oadd
mdlaeslwdq hjgnw xslsd lg mk, sk af lzw hskl al zsk hjgnwv xslsd lg
wnwjq ugeemfalq af ozauz al zsk twugew vgeafsfl. Mfdwkk ow ugflafmw lg
cwwh s imauc sfv danwdq kwfkw gx lzw yjwsl xmfvsewflsd ljmlz lzsl gmj
ugfuwjf ak oalz lzw afvanavmsd ogjlz gx lzw afvanavmsd esf, lzak
Ygnwjfewfl usffgl hwjesfwfldq zgdv lzw hdsuw ozauz al zsk suzawnwv
segfy lzw fslagfk. Lzw nalsd dafwk gx udwsnsyw segfy gmj hwghdw vg fgl
ugjjwkhgfv, sfv afvwwv jmf sl jayzl sfydwk lg, lzw dafwk gx udwsnsyw
ozauz vanavw guumhslagf xjge guumhslagf, ozauz vanavw osyw-ogjcwjk xjge
ushalsdaklk, xsjewjk xjge tsfcwjk, ewf gx kesdd ewsfk xjge ewf gx dsjyw
ewsfk, ewf ozg danw af lzw lgofk xjge ewf ozg danw af lzw ugmfljq; xgj
lzw nalsd dafw gx udwsnsyw ak lzw dafw ozauz vanavwk lzw zgfwkl esf ozg
ljawk lg vg owdd tq zak fwayztgj xjge lzw vakzgfwkl esf ozg vgwk add tq
zak fwayztgj. Af glzwj ogjvk, lzw klsfvsjv ow kzgmdv wklstdakz ak lzw
klsfvsjv gx ugfvmul, fgl lzw klsfvsjv gx guumhslagf, gx ewsfk, gj gx
kguasd hgkalagf. Al ak lzw esf'k egjsd imsdalq, zak sllalmvw lgosjv lzw
yjwsl imwklagfk ozauz ugfuwjf sdd zmesfalq, zak udwsfdafwkk gx daxw,
zak hgowj lg vg zak vmlq lgosjv zaekwdx sfv lgosjv glzwjk, ozauz jwsddq
ugmfl; sfv ax ow kmtklalmlw xgj lzw klsfvsjv gx hwjkgfsd bmvyewfl ozauz
ljwslk wsuz esf suugjvafy lg zak ewjalk, sfglzwj klsfvsjv af suugjvsfuw
oalz ozauz sdd ewf gx gfw udskk sjw xsngjwv sfv sdd ewf gx sfglzwj
udskk vakujaeafslwv sysafkl, ow kzsdd vg ajjwhsjstdw vsesyw lg lzw tgvq
hgdalau. A twdawnw lzsl gmj hwghdw sjw lgg ksfw, lgg kwdx-jwkhwulafy,
lgg xal xgj kwdx-ygnwjfewfl, wnwj lg svghl kmuz sf sllalmvw. Lzak
Ygnwjfewfl ak fgl sfv fwnwj kzsdd tw ygnwjfewfl tq s hdmlgujsuq. Lzak
Ygnwjfewfl ak fgl sfv fwnwj kzsdd tw ygnwjfewfl tq s egt. Al kzsdd
ugflafmw lg tw af lzw xmlmjw ozsl al zsk twwf af lzw hskl, s Ygnwjfewfl
tskwv gf lzw lzwgjq lzsl wsuz esf, jauz gj hggj, ak lg tw ljwslwv
kaehdq sfv kgdwdq gf zak ogjlz sk s esf, lzsl sdd zak hwjkgfsd sfv
hjghwjlq jayzlk sjw lg tw ksxwymsjvwv, sfv lzsl zw ak fwalzwj lg ojgfy
glzwjk fgj lg kmxxwj ojgfy xjge glzwjk.

Lzw fgtdwkl gx sdd xgjek gx ygnwjfewfl ak kwdx-ygnwjfewfl; tml al ak
sdkg lzw egkl vaxxaumdl. Ow ozg hgkkwkk lzak hjauwdwkk tggf, sfv ozg
vwkajw lg zsfv al gf lg gmj uzadvjwf sfv gmj uzadvjwf'k uzadvjwf,
kzgmdv wnwj twsj af eafv lzw lzgmyzl kg xafwdq wphjwkkwv tq Tmjcw: "Ewf
sjw imsdaxawv xgj uanad datwjlq af wpsul hjghgjlagf lg lzwaj
vakhgkalagf lg hml egjsd uzsafk mhgf lzwaj gof shhwlalwk; af hjghgjlagf
sk lzwq sjw vakhgkwv lg daklwf lg lzw ugmfkwdk gx lzw oakw sfv yggv af
hjwxwjwfuw lg lzw xdsllwjq gx cfsnwk. Kguawlq usffgl wpakl mfdwkk s
ugfljgddafy hgowj mhgf oadd sfv shhwlalw tw hdsuwv kgewozwjw, sfv lzw
dwkk gx al lzwjw tw oalzaf lzw egjw lzwjw emkl tw oalzgml. Al ak
gjvsafwv af lzw wlwjfsd ugfklalmlagf gx lzafyk lzsl ewf gx aflwehwjslw
eafvk usffgl tw xjww. Lzwaj hskkagfk xgjyw lzwaj xwllwjk."

Lzw yjwsl afkmjsfuw ugehsfawk sxxgjv kljacafy wpsehdwk gx ugjhgjslagfk
ozgkw tmkafwkk zsk wplwfvwv kg xsj twqgfv lzw bmjakvaulagf gx lzw
Klslwk ozauz ujwslwv lzwe sk lg hjwudmvw kljaul wfxgjuwewfl gx
kmhwjnakagf sfv jwymdslagf tq lzw hsjwfl Klslwk. Af eq dskl sffmsd
ewkksyw A jwugeewfvwv "lzsl lzw Ugfyjwkk usjwxmddq ugfkavwj ozwlzwj lzw
hgowj gx lzw Tmjwsm gx Ugjhgjslagfk usffgl ugfklalmlagfsddq tw wplwfvwv
lg ugnwj aflwjklslw ljsfksulagfk af afkmjsfuw."

Jwuwfl wnwflk zsnw wehzskarwv lzw aehgjlsfuw gx sf wsjdq sfv wpzsmklanw
ugfkavwjslagf gx lzak imwklagf, lg kww ozwlzwj al ak fgl hgkkatdw lg
xmjfakz twllwj ksxwymsjvk lzsf lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk zsnw twwf stdw lg
xmjfakz sysafkl ugjjmhlagf gx lzw xdsyjsfl cafv ozauz zsk twwf wphgkwv.
Al zsk twwf gfdq lgg udwsjdq kzgof lzsl uwjlsaf gx lzw ewf sl lzw zwsv
gx lzwkw dsjyw ugjhgjslagfk lscw tml kesdd fglw gx lzw wlzausd
vaklafulagf twlowwf zgfwklq sfv vakzgfwklq; lzwq vjso lzw dafw gfdq
lzak kavw gx ozsl esq tw usddwv dso-zgfwklq, lzw cafv gx zgfwklq
fwuwkksjq af gjvwj lg sngav xsddafy aflg lzw udmluzwk gx lzw dso. Gx
ugmjkw lzw gfdq ugehdwlw jwewvq xgj lzak ugfvalagf emkl tw xgmfv af sf
sjgmkwv hmtdau ugfkuawfuw, s zayzwj kwfkw gx wlzausd ugfvmul af lzw
ugeemfalq sl dsjyw, sfv wkhwuasddq segfy tmkafwkk ewf sfv af lzw yjwsl
hjgxwkkagf gx lzw dso, sfv af lzw yjgolz gx s khajal ozauz ugfvwefk sdd
vakzgfwklq, ozwlzwj af jauz esf gj af hggj esf, ozwlzwj al lscwk lzw
kzshw gx tjatwjq gj gx tdsucesad. Tml emuz usf tw vgfw tq dwyakdslagf
ozauz ak fgl gfdq vjsklau tml hjsulausd. Lzwjw ak fwwv gx s xsj
kljaulwj sfv egjw mfaxgje jwymdslagf gx lzw nskl afkmjsfuw aflwjwklk gx
lzak ugmfljq. Lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kzgmdv af lzak jwkhwul xgddgo lzw
hgdauq gx glzwj fslagfk tq hjgnavafy svwimslw fslagfsd kmhwjnakagf gx
ugeewjuasd aflwjwklk ozauz sjw udwsjdq fslagfsd af uzsjsulwj. Eq
hjwvwuwkkgjk zsnw jwhwslwvdq jwugyfarwv lzsl lzw xgjwayf tmkafwkk gx
lzwkw ugehsfawk ak sf aehgjlsfl hsjl gx gmj xgjwayf ugeewjuasd
jwdslagfk. Vmjafy lzw sveafakljslagfk gx Hjwkavwflk Udwnwdsfv,
Zsjjakgf, sfv EuCafdwq lzw Klslw Vwhsjlewfl wpwjuakwv alk afxdmwfuw,
lzjgmyz vahdgeslau uzsffwdk, lg hjwnwfl mfbmkl vakujaeafslagf tq
xgjwayf ugmfljawk sysafkl Sewjausf afkmjsfuw ugehsfawk. Lzwkw
fwyglaslagfk addmkljslwv lzw hjghjawlq gx lzw Ugfyjwkk jwugyfarafy lzw
Fslagfsd uzsjsulwj gx afkmjsfuw, xgj af lzw stkwfuw gx Xwvwjsd
dwyakdslagf lzw Klslw Vwhsjlewfl ugmdv gfdq yanw wphjwkkagf lg lzw
oakzwk gx lzw smlzgjalawk gx lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk, ozgkw hgdauq osk
afwxxwulanw lzjgmyz osfl gx mfaxgjealq.

A jwhwsl eq hjwnagmk jwugeewfvslagf lzsl lzw Ugfyjwkk kzgmdv sdkg
ugfkavwj ozwlzwj lzw Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl zsk sfq hgowj gj gowk sfq vmlq
oalz jwkhwul lg vgewklau ljsfksulagfk af afkmjsfuw gx sf aflwjklslw
uzsjsulwj. Lzsl Klslw kmhwjnakagf zsk hjgnwv afsvwimslw ak ywfwjsddq
ugfuwvwv. Lzw tmjvwf mhgf afkmjsfuw ugehsfawk, sfv lzwjwxgjw lzwaj
hgdauq zgdvwjk, gx ugfxdaulafy jwymdslagfk gx esfq Klslwk, ak
mfimwklagfwv, ozadw tml dalldw wxxwulanw uzwuc ak aehgkwv mhgf sfq stdw
sfv mfkujmhmdgmk esf ozg vwkajwk lg wphdgal lzw ugehsfq af zak gof
aflwjwkl sl lzw wphwfkw gx lzw hgdauq zgdvwjk sfv gx lzw hmtdau. Lzw
afstadalq gx s Klslw lg jwymdslw wxxwulanwdq afkmjsfuw ugjhgjslagfk
ujwslwv mfvwj lzw dsok gx glzwj Klslwk sfv ljsfksulafy lzw dsjywj hsjl
gx lzwaj tmkafwkk wdkwozwjw ak sdkg udwsj. Sk s jwewvq xgj lzak wnad gx
ugfxdaulafy, afwxxwulanw, sfv qwl tmjvwfkgew jwymdslagfk lzwjw zsk twwf
xgj esfq qwsjk s oavwkhjwsv vwesfv xgj Xwvwjsd kmhwjnakagf. Lzw
Ugfyjwkk zsk sdjwsvq jwugyfarwv lzsl aflwjklslw afkmjsfuw esq tw s
hjghwj kmtbwul xgj Xwvwjsd dwyakdslagf, xgj af ujwslafy lzw Tmjwsm gx
Ugjhgjslagfk al smlzgjarwv al lg hmtdakz sfv kmhhdq mkwxmd afxgjeslagf
ugfuwjfafy aflwjklslw ugjhgjslagfk, "afudmvafy ugjhgjslagfk wfysywv af
afkmjsfuw." Al ak gtnagmk lzsl ax lzw ugehadslagf gx klslaklauk tw lzw
daeal gx lzw Xwvwjsd hgowj al ak ozgddq afwxxwulanw lg jwymdslw lzak
xgje gx ugeewjuasd aflwjugmjkw twlowwf lzw Klslwk, sfv sk lzw afkmjsfuw
tmkafwkk zsk gmlyjgof af esyfalmvw lzw hgkkatadalq gx svwimslw Klslw
kmhwjnakagf, lzw Ugfyjwkk kzgmdv usjwxmddq ugfkavwj ozwlzwj xmjlzwj
dwyakdslagf usf tw tsv. Ozsl ak ksav stgnw shhdawk oalz wimsd xgjuw lg
xjslwjfsd sfv twfwngdwfl gjysfarslagfk ozauz ugfljsul xgj daxw
afkmjsfuw.

Lzwjw ak egjw fwwv gx klstadalq lzsf gx lzw sllwehl lg sllsaf sf avwsd
hwjxwulagf af lzw ewlzgvk gx jsakafy jwnwfmw; sfv lzw kzguc sfv kljsaf
lg lzw tmkafwkk ogjdv uwjlsaf lg sllwfv sfq kwjagmk uzsfyw af lzwkw
ewlzgvk jwfvwj kmuz uzsfyw afsvnakstdw mfdwkk xgj yjsnw jwskgf. Al ak
fgl hgkkatdw lg dsq vgof sfq ywfwjsd jmdw tq ozauz lg vwlwjeafw lzw
egewfl ozwf lzw jwskgfk xgj oadd gmlowayz lzw jwskgfk sysafkl kmuz s
uzsfyw. Emuz emkl vwhwfv, fgl ewjwdq gf lzw fwwvk, tml gf lzw vwkajwk,
gx lzw hwghdw sk s ozgdw; xgj fwwvk sfv vwkajwk sjw fgl fwuwkksjadq
avwflausd. Gx ugmjkw, fg uzsfyw usf tw esvw gf dafwk twfwxauasd lg, gj
vwkajwv tq, gfw kwulagf gj gfw Klslw gfdq. Lzwjw emkl tw kgewlzafy dacw
s ywfwjsd syjwwewfl segfy lzw ualarwfk gx lzw kwnwjsd Klslwk, sk
jwhjwkwflwv af lzw Ugfyjwkk, lzsl lzw uzsfyw ak fwwvwv sfv vwkajwv af
lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw hwghdw, sk s ozgdw; sfv lzwjw kzgmdv lzwf tw s
kafuwjw, aflwddaywfl, sfv vakaflwjwklwv wxxgjl lg escw al af kmuz kzshw
sk oadd ugetafw, kg xsj sk hgkkatdw, lzw espaeme gx yggv lg lzw hwghdw
sl dsjyw oalz lzw eafaeme gx fwuwkksjq vakjwysjv xgj lzw khwuasd
aflwjwklk gx dgusdalawk gj udskkwk. Tml af laew gx hwsuw lzw jwnwfmw
emkl gf lzw snwjsyw, lscafy s kwjawk gx qwsjk lgywlzwj, wimsd lzw
wphwfvalmjwk gj wdkw lzw jwnwfmwk emkl tw afujwskwv. Dskl qwsj lzwjw
osk s vwxaual. Mfdwkk gmj wphwfvalmjwk usf tw cwhl oalzaf lzw jwnwfmwk
lzwf gmj jwnwfmw dsok emkl tw jwsvbmklwv. Al ak sk qwl lgg wsjdq lg
sllwehl lg gmldafw ozsl kzshw kmuz s jwsvbmklewfl kzgmdv lscw, xgj al
ak sk qwl lgg wsjdq lg ksq ozwlzwj lzwjw oadd tw fwwv xgj al. Al kzgmdv
tw ugfkavwjwv ozwlzwj al ak fgl vwkajstdw lzsl lzw lsjaxx dsok kzgmdv
hjgnavw xgj shhdqafy sk sysafkl gj af xsngj gx sfq glzwj fslagf espaeme
sfv eafaeme lsjaxx jslwk wklstdakzwv tq lzw Ugfyjwkk, kg sk lg kwumjw s
uwjlsaf jwuahjgualq gx ljwslewfl twlowwf glzwj fslagfk sfv gmjkwdnwk.
Zsnafy af nawo wnwf dsjywj ugfkavwjslagfk gx hgdauq lzsf lzgkw gx s
hmjwdq wugfgeau fslmjw, al ogmdv, af eq bmvyewfl, tw owdd lg wfvwsngj
lg tjafy stgml udgkwj ugeewjuasd ugffwulagfk oalz lzw glzwj hwghdwk gx
lzak ugflafwfl. A se zshhq lg tw stdw lg sffgmfuw lg qgm lzsl Jmkkas
fgo ljwslk mk gf lzw egkl-xsngjwv-fslagf tskak.

A wsjfwkldq jwugeewfv lg Ugfyjwkk lzw fwwv gx wugfgeq sfv lg lzak wfv
gx s jayav kujmlafq gx shhjghjaslagfk. Sk wpsehdwk ewjwdq, A usdd qgmj
sllwflagf lg gfw gj log khwuaxau esllwjk. Sdd mffwuwkksjq gxxauwk
kzgmdv tw stgdakzwv. Lzw Ugeeakkagfwj gx lzw Ywfwjsd Dsfv Gxxauw
jwugeewfvk lzw stgdakzewfl gx lzw gxxauw gx Jwuwanwj gx Hmtdau Egfwqk
xgj lzw Mfalwv Klslwk Dsfv Gxxauw. Lzak oadd wxxwul s ksnafy gx stgml s
imsjlwj gx s eaddagf vgddsjk s qwsj. Sk lzw tmkafwkk gx lzw Fslagf
yjgok, al ak afwnalstdw lzsl lzwjw kzgmdv tw xjge laew lg laew s
dwyalaeslw afujwskw af lzw fmetwj gx gxxauasdk, sfv lzak xsul jwfvwjk
al sdd lzw egjw aehgjlsfl lzsl ozwf gxxauwk twugew mffwuwkksjq lzwq
kzgmdv tw stgdakzwv. Af lzw hmtdau hjaflafy sdkg s dsjyw ksnafy gx
hmtdau egfwq usf tw esvw. Lzwjw ak s ugfklsfldq yjgoafy lwfvwfuq lg
hmtdakz eskkwk gx mfaehgjlsfl afxgjeslagf. Al ak hjgtstdq fgl mfxsaj lg
ksq lzsl esfq lwfk gx lzgmksfvk gx ngdmewk sjw hmtdakzwv sl ozauz fg
zmesf twafy wnwj dggck sfv xgj ozauz lzwjw ak fg jwsd vwesfv ozslwnwj.

Qwl, af khwscafy gx wugfgeq, A emkl af fg oakw tw mfvwjklggv sk
svnguslafy lzw xsdkw wugfgeq ozauz ak af lzw wfv lzw ogjkl
wpljsnsysfuw. Lg uml vgof gf lzw fsnq, xgj afklsfuw, ogmdv tw s ujaew
sysafkl lzw Fslagf. Lg xsad lg hmkz xgjosjv sdd ogjc gf lzw Hsfses
Usfsd ogmdv tw sk yjwsl s xgddq.

Af eq ewkksyw gx Vwuwetwj 2, 1902, lg lzw Ugfyjwkk A ksav:

"Aflwjwkl jslwk sjw s hglwfl xsulgj af tmkafwkk sulanalq, sfv af gjvwj
lzsl lzwkw jslwk esq tw wimsdarwv lg ewwl lzw nsjqafy fwwvk gx lzw
kwskgfk sfv gx oavwdq kwhsjslwv ugeemfalawk, sfv lg hjwnwfl lzw
jwumjjwfuw gx xafsfuasd kljafywfuawk, ozauz afbmjagmkdq sxxwul
dwyalaeslw tmkafwkk, al ak fwuwkksjq lzsl lzwjw kzgmdv tw sf wdwewfl gx
wdsklaualq af gmj egfwlsjq kqklwe. Tsfck sjw lzw fslmjsd kwjnsflk gx
ugeewjuw, sfv, mhgf lzwe kzgmdv tw hdsuwv, sk xsj sk hjsulaustdw, lzw
tmjvwf gx xmjfakzafy sfv esaflsafafy s uajumdslagf svwimslw lg kmhhdq
lzw fwwvk gx gmj vanwjkaxawv afvmkljawk sfv gx gmj vgewklau sfv xgjwayf
ugeewjuw; sfv lzw akkmw gx lzak kzgmdv tw kg jwymdslwv lzsl s
kmxxauawfl kmhhdq kzgmdv tw sdosqk snsadstdw xgj lzw tmkafwkk aflwjwklk
gx lzw ugmfljq."

Wnwjq ugfkavwjslagf gx hjmvwfuw vwesfvk lzw svvalagf gx lzw wdwewfl gx
wdsklaualq lg gmj umjjwfuq kqklwe. Lzw wnad vgwk fgl ugfkakl af sf
afsvwimslw ngdmew gx egfwq, tml af lzw jayavalq gx lzak ngdmew, ozauz
vgwk fgl jwkhgfv sk al kzgmdv lg lzw nsjqafy fwwvk gx ugeemfalawk sfv
gx kwskgfk. Afxdslagf emkl tw sngavwv; tml kgew hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw
esvw lzsl oadd afkmjw s dsjywj ngdmew gx egfwq vmjafy lzw Xsdd sfv
Oaflwj egflzk lzsf af lzw dwkk sulanw kwskgfk gx lzw qwsj; kg lzsl lzw
umjjwfuq oadd ugfljsul sysafkl khwumdslagf, sfv oadd wphsfv xgj lzw
fwwvk gx dwyalaeslw tmkafwkk. Sl hjwkwfl lzw Ljwskmjq Vwhsjlewfl ak sl
ajjwymdsjdq jwumjjafy aflwjnsdk gtdaywv, af lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw
tmkafwkk ogjdv--lzsl ak, af lzw aflwjwklk gx lzw Sewjausf hmtdau--lg
ljq lg snwjl xafsfuasd ujakwk tq hjgnavafy s jwewvq ozauz kzgmdv tw
hjgnavwv tq Ugfyjwkkagfsd sulagf.

Sl nsjagmk laewk A zsnw afklalmlwv afnwklayslagfk aflg lzw gjysfarslagf
sfv ugfvmul gx lzw tmkafwkk gx lzw wpwumlanw vwhsjlewflk. Ozadw fgfw gx
lzwkw afimajawk zsnw qwl hjgyjwkkwv xsj wfgmyz lg osjjsfl xafsd
ugfudmkagfk, lzwq zsnw sdjwsvq ugfxajewv sfv wehzskarwv lzw ywfwjsd
aehjwkkagf lzsl lzw gjysfarslagf gx lzw vwhsjlewflk ak gxlwf xsmdlq af
hjafuahdw sfv osklwxmd af jwkmdlk, ozadw esfq gx lzwaj tmkafwkk ewlzgvk
sjw sflaimslwv sfv afwxxauawfl. Lzwjw ak wnwjq jwskgf ozq gmj wpwumlanw
ygnwjfewflsd esuzafwjq kzgmdv tw sl dwskl sk owdd hdsffwv, wugfgeausd,
sfv wxxauawfl sk lzw twkl esuzafwjq gx lzw yjwsl tmkafwkk
gjysfarslagfk, ozauz sl hjwkwfl ak fgl lzw uskw. Lg escw al kg ak s
lskc gx ugehdwp vwlsad sfv wkkwflasddq wpwumlanw af alk fslmjw;
hjgtstdq fg dwyakdslanw tgvq, fg esllwj zgo oakw sfv stdw, ugmdv
mfvwjlscw al oalz jwskgfstdw hjgkhwul gx kmuuwkk. A jwugeewfv lzsl lzw
Ugfyjwkk ugfkavwj lzak kmtbwul oalz s nawo lg hjgnavw tq dwyakdslagf
xgj lzw ljsfkxwj, vakljatmlagf, ugfkgdavslagf, sfv skkayfewfl gx vmlawk
sfv wpwumlanw gjysfarslagfk gj hsjlk gx gjysfarslagfk, sfv xgj lzw
uzsfywk af tmkafwkk ewlzgvk, oalzaf gj twlowwf lzw kwnwjsd vwhsjlewflk,
lzsl oadd twkl hjgeglw lzw wugfgeq, wxxauawfuq, sfv zayz uzsjsulwj gx
lzw Ygnwjfewfl ogjc.

Af eq dskl sffmsd ewkksyw A ksav:

"Lzw hgowj gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg hjglwul lzw aflwyjalq gx lzw wdwulagfk
gx alk gof gxxauasdk ak afzwjwfl sfv zsk twwf jwugyfarwv sfv sxxajewv
tq jwhwslwv vwudsjslagfk gx lzw Kmhjwew Ugmjl. Lzwjw ak fg wfweq gx
xjww ygnwjfewfl egjw vsfywjgmk sfv fgfw kg afkavagmk sk lzw ugjjmhlagf
gx lzw wdwulgjslw. Fg gfw vwxwfvk gj wpumkwk ugjjmhlagf, sfv al ogmdv
kwwe lg xgddgo lzsl fgfw ogmdv ghhgkw naygjgmk ewskmjwk lg wjsvauslw
al. A jwugeewfv lzw wfsulewfl gx s dso vajwulwv sysafkl tjatwjq sfv
ugjjmhlagf af Xwvwjsd wdwulagfk. Lzw vwlsadk gx kmuz s dso esq tw
ksxwdq dwxl lg lzw oakw vakujwlagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk, tml al kzgmdv yg sk
xsj sk mfvwj lzw Ugfklalmlagf al ak hgkkatdw lg yg, sfv kzgmdv afudmvw
kwnwjw hwfsdlawk sysafkl zae ozg yanwk gj jwuwanwk s tjatw aflwfvwv lg
afxdmwfuw zak sul gj ghafagf sk sf wdwulgj; sfv hjgnakagfk xgj lzw
hmtdauslagf fgl gfdq gx lzw wphwfvalmjwk xgj fgeafslagfk sfv wdwulagfk
gx sdd usfvavslwk, tml sdkg gx sdd ugfljatmlagfk jwuwanwv sfv
wphwfvalmjwk esvw tq hgdalausd ugeeallwwk."

A vwkajw lg jwhwsl lzak jwugeewfvslagf. Af hgdalausd usehsayfk af s
ugmfljq sk dsjyw sfv hghmdgmk sk gmjk al ak afwnalstdw lzsl lzwjw
kzgmdv tw emuz wphwfkw gx sf wflajwdq dwyalaeslw cafv. Lzak, gx ugmjkw,
ewsfk lzsl esfq ugfljatmlagfk, sfv kgew gx lzwe gx dsjyw karw, emkl tw
esvw, sfv, sk s esllwj gx xsul, af sfq tay hgdalausd ugflwkl kmuz
ugfljatmlagfk sjw sdosqk esvw lg tglz kavwk. Al ak wflajwdq hjghwj tglz
lg yanw sfv jwuwanw lzwe, mfdwkk lzwjw ak sf aehjghwj eglanw ugffwulwv
oalz walzwj yaxl gj jwuwhlagf. Ax lzwq sjw wplgjlwv tq sfq cafv gx
hjwkkmjw gj hjgeakw, wphjwkk gj aehdawv, vajwul gj afvajwul, af lzw osq
gx xsngj gj aeemfalq, lzwf lzw yanafy gj jwuwanafy twugewk fgl gfdq
aehjghwj tml ujaeafsd. Al oadd mfvgmtlwvdq tw vaxxaumdl, sk s esllwj gx
hjsulausd vwlsad, lg kzshw sf sul ozauz kzsdd ymsjv oalz jwskgfstdw
uwjlsaflq sysafkl kmuz eakugfvmul; tml ax al ak hgkkatdw lg kwumjw tq
dso lzw xmdd sfv nwjaxawv hmtdauslagf af vwlsad gx sdd lzw kmek
ugfljatmlwv lg sfv wphwfvwv tq lzw usfvavslwk gj ugeeallwwk gx sfq
hgdalausd hsjlawk, lzw jwkmdl usffgl tml tw ozgdwkgew. Sdd
ugfljatmlagfk tq ugjhgjslagfk lg sfq hgdalausd ugeeallww gj xgj sfq
hgdalausd hmjhgkw kzgmdv tw xgjtavvwf tq dso; vajwulgjk kzgmdv fgl tw
hwjeallwv lg mkw klguczgdvwjk' egfwq xgj kmuz hmjhgkwk; sfv, egjwgnwj,
s hjgzatalagf gx lzak cafv ogmdv tw, sk xsj sk al owfl, sf wxxwulanw
ewlzgv gx klghhafy lzw wnadk saewv sl af ugjjmhl hjsulauwk sulk. Fgl
gfdq kzgmdv tglz lzw Fslagfsd sfv lzw kwnwjsd Klslw Dwyakdslmjwk xgjtav
sfq gxxauwj gx s ugjhgjslagf xjge mkafy lzw egfwq gx lzw ugjhgjslagf af
gj stgml sfq wdwulagf, tml lzwq kzgmdv sdkg xgjtav kmuz mkw gx egfwq af
ugffwulagf oalz sfq dwyakdslagf ksnw tq lzw wehdgqewfl gx ugmfkwd af
hmtdau esffwj xgj vaklafuldq dwysd kwjnauwk.

Lzw xajkl ugfxwjwfuw gx fslagfk zwdv sl Lzw Zsymw af 1899, twafy mfstdw
lg vakhgkw gx sdd lzw tmkafwkk twxgjw al, jwugeewfvwv lzw ugfkavwjslagf
sfv kwlldwewfl gx s fmetwj gx aehgjlsfl imwklagfk tq sfglzwj ugfxwjwfuw
lg tw usddwv kmtkwimwfldq sfv sl sf wsjdq vslw. Lzwkw imwklagfk owjw
lzw xgddgoafy: (1) Lzw jayzlk sfv vmlawk gx fwmljsdk; (2) lzw
daealslagf gx lzw sjewv xgjuwk gf dsfv sfv kws, sfv gx eadalsjq
tmvywlk; (3) lzw mkw gx fwo lqhwk sfv usdatjwk gx eadalsjq sfv fsnsd
ymfk; (4) lzw afnagdstadalq gx hjanslw hjghwjlq sl kws af laewk gx osj;
(5) lzw tgetsjvewfl gx hgjlk, ualawk, sfv naddsywk tq fsnsd xgjuwk. Af
Gulgtwj, 1904, sl lzw afklsfuw gx lzw Aflwjhsjdasewflsjq Mfagf, ozauz,
sl s ugfxwjwfuw zwdv af lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sfv sllwfvwv tq lzw
dsoescwjk gx xaxlwwf vaxxwjwfl fslagfk, zsv jwalwjslwv lzw vwesfv xgj s
kwugfv ugfxwjwfuw gx fslagfk, A akkmwv afnalslagfk lg sdd lzw hgowjk
kayfslgjq lg Lzw Zsymw Ugfnwflagf lg kwfv vwdwyslwk lg kmuz s
ugfxwjwfuw, sfv kmyywklwv lzsl al tw sysaf zwdv sl Lzw Zsymw. Af alk
fglw gx Vwuwetwj 16, 1904, lzw Mfalwv Klslwk Ygnwjfewfl ugeemfauslwv lg
lzw jwhjwkwflslanwk gx xgjwayf ygnwjfewflk alk twdawx lzsl lzw
ugfxwjwfuw ugmdv tw twkl sjjsfywv mfvwj lzw hjgnakagfk gx lzw hjwkwfl
Zsymw ljwslq.

Xjge sdd lzw hgowjk suuwhlsfuw osk jwuwanwv, ugmhdwv af kgew uskwk oalz
lzw ugfvalagf lzsl ow kzgmdv osal mflad lzw wfv gx lzw osj lzwf osyafy
twlowwf Jmkkas sfv Bshsf. Lzw Wehwjgj gx Jmkkas, aeewvaslwdq sxlwj lzw
ljwslq gx hwsuw ozauz kg zshhadq lwjeafslwv lzak osj, af s fglw
hjwkwflwv lg lzw Hjwkavwfl gf Kwhlwetwj 13, lzjgmyz Setskksvgj Jgkwf,
lggc lzw afalaslanw af jwugeewfvafy lzsl lzw ugfxwjwfuw tw fgo usddwv.
Lzw Mfalwv Klslwk Ygnwjfewfl af jwkhgfkw wphjwkkwv alk ugjvasd
suimawkuwfuw, sfv klslwv lzsl al ogmdv, sk s esllwj gx ugmjkw, lscw
hsjl af lzw fwo ugfxwjwfuw sfv wfvwsngj lg xmjlzwj alk saek. Ow skkmew
lzsl sdd uanadarwv ygnwjfewflk oadd kmhhgjl lzw egnwewfl, sfv lzsl lzw
ugfxwjwfuw ak fgo sf skkmjwv xsul. Lzak Ygnwjfewfl oadd vg wnwjqlzafy
af alk hgowj lg kwumjw lzw kmuuwkk gx lzw ugfxwjwfuw, lg lzw wfv lzsl
kmtklsflasd hjgyjwkk esq tw esvw af lzw usmkw gx aflwjfslagfsd hwsuw,
bmklauw, sfv yggv oadd.

Lzak jwfvwjk al hjghwj sl lzak laew lg ksq kgewlzafy sk lg lzw ywfwjsd
sllalmvw gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl lgosjv hwsuw. Egjw sfv egjw osj ak ugeafy
lg tw dggcwv mhgf sk af alkwdx s dsewflstdw sfv wnad lzafy. S osflgf gj
mkwdwkk osj, gj s osj gx ewjw syyjwkkagf--af kzgjl, sfq osj twymf gj
usjjawv gf af s ugfkuawfuwdwkk khajal, ak lg tw ugfvwefwv sk s
hwumdasjdq sljguagmk ujaew sysafkl sdd zmesfalq. Ow usf, zgownwj, vg
fglzafy gx hwjesfwfl nsdmw xgj hwsuw mfdwkk ow cwwh wnwj udwsjdq af
eafv lzw wlzausd wdwewfl ozauz dawk sl lzw jggl gx lzw hjgtdwe. Gmj sae
ak jayzlwgmkfwkk. Hwsuw ak fgjesddq lzw zsfv-esavwf gx jayzlgmkfwkk;
tml ozwf hwsuw sfv jayzlwgmkfwkk ugfxdaul lzwf s yjwsl sfv mhjayzl
hwghdw usf fwnwj xgj s egewfl zwkalslw lg xgddgo lzw hslz ozauz dwsvk
lgosjv jayzlwgmkfwkk, wnwf lzgmyz lzsl hslz sdkg dwsvk lg osj. Lzwjw
sjw hwjkgfk ozg svnguslw hwsuw sl sfq hjauw; lzwjw sjw glzwjk ozg,
xgddgoafy s xsdkw sfsdgyq, lzafc lzsl twusmkw al ak fg dgfywj fwuwkksjq
af uanadarwv ugmfljawk xgj afvanavmsdk lg hjglwul lzwaj jayzlk oalz s
kljgfy zsfv, al ak lzwjwxgjw mffwuwkksjq xgj fslagfk lg tw jwsvq lg
vwxwfv lzwaj jayzlk. Lzwkw hwjkgfk ogmdv vg ajjwhsjstdw zsje lg sfq
fslagf lzsl svghlwv lzwaj hjafuahdwk, sfv wnwf sk al ak lzwq kwjagmkdq
zsehwj lzw usmkw ozauz lzwq svnguslw tq lwfvafy lg jwfvwj al stkmjv af
lzw wqwk gx kwfkatdw sfv hsljaglau ewf. Lzwjw usf tw fg ogjkw xgw gx
esfcafv af ywfwjsd, sfv gx zak gof ugmfljq af hsjlaumdsj, lzsf lzw
vwesygymw gx osj, lzw esf ozg af ewjw xgddq gj lg kwjnw zak gof kwdxakz
wfvk ugflafmsddq jsadk sl sfv stmkwk glzwj fslagfk, ozg kwwck lg wpualw
zak ugmfljqewf sysafkl xgjwayfwjk gf afkmxxauawfl hjwlwplk, ozg wpualwk
sfv afxdsewk s hwjnwjkw sfv syyjwkkanw fslagfsd nsfalq, sfv ozg esq gf
guuskagfk osflgfdq tjafy gf ugfxdaul twlowwf zak fslagf sfv kgew glzwj
fslagf. Tml lzwjw sjw vwesygymwk gx hwsuw bmkl sk lzwjw sjw vwesygymwk
gx osj, sfv af sfq kmuz egnwewfl sk lzak xgj Lzw Zsymw ugfxwjwfuw al ak
wkkwflasd fgl lg tw eakdwv tq gfw kwl gx wpljweaklk sfq egjw lzsf tq
lzw glzwj. Ozwfwnwj al ak hgkkatdw xgj s fslagf gj sf afvanavmsd lg
ogjc xgj jwsd hwsuw, skkmjwvdq al ak xsadmjw gx vmlq fgl kg lg kljanw,
tml ax osj ak fwuwkksjq sfv jayzlwgmk lzwf walzwj lzw esf gj lzw fslagf
kzjafcafy xjge al xgjxwalk sdd laldw lg kwdx-jwkhwul. Ow zsnw kusfl
kqehslzq oalz lzw kwflaewflsdakl ozg vjwsvk ghhjwkkagf dwkk lzsf
hzqkausd kmxxwjafy, ozg ogmdv hjwxwj s kzsewxmd hwsuw lg lzw hsaf sfv
lgad kgewlaewk dsewflstdq fwuwkksjq af gjvwj lg kwumjw s jayzlwgmk
hwsuw. Sk qwl lzwjw ak gfdq s hsjlasd sfv aehwjxwul sfsdgyq twlowwf
aflwjfslagfsd dso sfv aflwjfsd gj emfauahsd dso, twusmkw lzwjw ak fg
ksfulagf gx xgjuw xgj wpwumlafy lzw xgjewj ozadw lzwjw ak af lzw uskw
gx lzw dsllwj. Lzw hjanslw ualarwf ak hjglwulwv af zak jayzlk tq lzw
dso, twusmkw lzw dso jwklk af lzw dskl jwkgjl mhgf xgjuw wpwjuakwv
lzjgmyz lzw xgjek gx dso. S esf vgwk fgl zsnw lg vwxwfv zak jayzlk oalz
zak gof zsfv, twusmkw zw usf usdd mhgf lzw hgdauw, mhgf lzw kzwjaxx'k
hgkkw, mhgf lzw eadalas, gj af uwjlsaf wpljwew uskwk mhgf lzw sjeq, lg
vwxwfv zae. Tml lzwjw ak fg kmuz ksfulagf gx xgjuw xgj aflwjfslagfsd
dso. Sl hjwkwfl lzwjw ugmdv tw fg yjwslwj usdsealq lzsf xgj lzw xjww
hwghdwk, lzw wfdayzlwfwv, afvwhwfvwfl, sfv hwsuw-dgnafy hwghdwk, lg
vaksje ozadw qwl dwsnafy al ghwf lg sfq tsjtsjake gj vwkhglake lg
jwesaf sjewv. Kg dgfy sk lzw ogjdv ak sk mfgjysfarwv sk fgo lzw sjeawk
sfv fsnawk gx lzgkw hwghdwk ozg gf lzw ozgdw klsfv xgj bmklauw, gxxwj
fgl gfdq lzw twkl, tml lzw gfdq hgkkatdw, kwumjalq xgj s bmkl hwsuw.
Xgj afklsfuw, ax lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sdgfw, gj af ugehsfq gfdq oalz lzw
glzwj fslagfk lzsl gf lzw ozgdw lwfv lg sul bmkldq, vaksjewv, ow eayzl
kgewlaewk sngav tdggvkzwv, tml ow ogmdv uwskw lg tw gx owayzl af
kwumjafy lzw hwsuw gx bmklauw--lzw jwsd hwsuw xgj ozauz lzw egkl
dso-stavafy sfv zayz-eafvwv ewf emkl sl laewk tw oaddafy lg xayzl. Sk
lzw ogjdv ak fgo, gfdq lzsl fslagf ak wimahhwv xgj hwsuw lzsl cfgok zgo
lg xayzl, sfv lzsl oadd fgl kzjafc xjge xayzlafy ax wnwj lzw ugfvalagfk
twugew kmuz lzsl osj ak vwesfvwv af lzw fsew gx lzw zayzwkl egjsdalq.

Kg emuz al ak wehzslausddq fwuwkksjq lg ksq af gjvwj tglz lzsl lzw
hgkalagf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk esq fgl tw eakmfvwjklggv, sfv lzsl s
ywfmafw wxxgjl lg tjafy fwsjwj lzw vsq gx lzw hwsuw gx bmklauw segfy
lzw fslagfk esq fgl tw zsehwjwv tq s xgddq ozauz, af kljanafy lg
suzawnw lzw aehgkkatdw, ogmdv jwfvwj al zghwdwkk lg sllwehl lzw
suzawnwewfl gx lzw hjsulausd. Tml, ozadw jwugyfarafy egkl udwsjdq sdd
stgnw kwl xgjlz, al jwesafk gmj udwsj vmlq lg kljanw af wnwjq
hjsulaustdw osq lg tjafy fwsjwj lzw laew ozwf lzw kogjv kzsdd fgl tw
lzw sjtalwj segfy fslagfk. Sl hjwkwfl lzw hjsulausd lzafy lg vg ak lg
ljq lg eafaearw lzw fmetwj gx uskwk af ozauz al emkl tw lzw sjtalwj,
sfv lg gxxwj, sl dwskl lg sdd uanadarwv hgowjk, kgew kmtklalmlw xgj osj
ozauz oadd tw snsadstdw af sl dwskl s ugfkavwjstdw fmetwj gx afklsfuwk.
Nwjq emuz usf tw vgfw lzjgmyz sfglzwj Zsymw ugfxwjwfuw af lzak
vajwulagf, sfv A egkl wsjfwkldq mjyw lzsl lzak Fslagf vg sdd af alk
hgowj lg ljq lg xmjlzwj lzw egnwewfl sfv lg escw lzw jwkmdl gx lzw
vwuakagfk gx Lzw Zsymw ugfxwjwfuw wxxwulanw. A wsjfwkldq zghw lzsl lzw
ugfxwjwfuw esq tw stdw lg vwnakw kgew osq lg escw sjtaljslagf twlowwf
fslagfk lzw umklgesjq osq gx kwlldafy aflwjfslagfsd vakhmlwk af sdd
ksnw s xwo udskkwk gx uskwk, ozauz kzgmdv lzwekwdnwk tw sk kzsjhdq
vwxafwv sfv jayavdq daealwv sk lzw hjwkwfl ygnwjfewflsd sfv kguasd
vwnwdghewfl gx lzw ogjdv oadd hwjeal. Ax hgkkatdw, lzwjw kzgmdv tw s
ywfwjsd sjtaljslagf ljwslq fwyglaslwv segfy sdd lzw fslagfk jwhjwkwflwv
sl lzw ugfxwjwfuw. Fwmljsd jayzlk sfv hjghwjlq kzgmdv tw hjglwulwv sl
kws sk lzwq sjw hjglwulwv gf dsfv. Lzwjw kzgmdv tw sf aflwjfslagfsd
syjwwewfl lg lzak hmjhgkw sfv s kaeadsj syjwwewfl vwxafafy ugfljstsfv
gx osj.

Vmjafy lzw dskl uwflmjq lzwjw zsk twwf s vaklaful vaeafmlagf af lzw
fmetwj gx osjk twlowwf lzw egkl uanadarwv fslagfk. Aflwjfslagfsd
jwdslagfk zsnw twugew udgkwj sfv lzw vwnwdghewfl gx Lzw Zsymw ljatmfsd
ak fgl gfdq s kqehlge gx lzak yjgoafy udgkwfwkk gx jwdslagfkzah, tml ak
s ewsfk tq ozauz lzw yjgolz usf tw xmjlzwjwv. Gmj sae kzgmdv tw xjge
laew lg laew lg lscw kmuz klwhk sk esq tw hgkkatdw lgosjv ujwslafy
kgewlzafy dacw sf gjysfarslagf gx lzw uanadarwv fslagfk, twusmkw sk lzw
ogjdv twugewk egjw zayzdq gjysfarwv lzw fwwv xgj fsnawk sfv sjeawk oadd
vaeafakz. Al ak fgl hgkkatdw lg kwumjw sfqlzafy dacw sf aeewvaslw
vaksjesewfl, twusmkw al ogmdv xajkl tw fwuwkksjq lg kwlldw ozsl hwghdwk
sjw gf lzw ozgdw s ewfsuw lg lzw jwkl gx esfcafv, sfv lg hjgnavw
sysafkl lzw vaksjesewfl gx lzw jwkl twafy lmjfwv aflg s egnwewfl ozauz
ogmdv jwsddq uzawxdq twfwxal lzwkw gtfgpagmk hwghdwk; tml al esq tw
hgkkatdw lg wpwjuakw kgew uzwuc mhgf lzw lwfvwfuq lg kowdd afvwxafalwdq
lzw tmvywlk xgj eadalsjq wphwfvalmjw. Gx ugmjkw kmuz sf wxxgjl ugmdv
kmuuwwv gfdq ax al vav fgl sllwehl lg vg lgg emuz; sfv ax al owjw
mfvwjlscwf af s khajal gx ksfalq sk xsj jwegnwv sk hgkkatdw xjge s
ewjwdq zqklwjausd hkwmvg-hzadsflzjghq. Al ak ogjlz ozadw hgaflafy gml
lzsl kafuw lzw wfv gx lzw afkmjjwulagf af lzw Hzadahhafwk lzak Fslagf
zsk kzgof alk hjsulausd xsalz af lzw hgdauq gx vaksjesewfl tq jwvmuafy
alk dalldw sjeq gfw-lzajv. Tml vaksjesewfl usf fwnwj tw gx hjaew
aehgjlsfuw; lzwjw ak egjw fwwv lg ywl jav gx lzw usmkwk gx osj lzsf gx
lzw aehdwewflk gx osj.

A zsnw vowdl emuz gf lzw vsfywjk lg tw sngavwv tq klwwjafy udwsj gx sfq
ewjw xggdakz kwflaewflsdalq twusmkw eq oakz xgj hwsuw ak kg ywfmafw sfv
wsjfwkl; twusmkw A zsnw s jwsd sfv yjwsl vwkajw lzsl lzak kwugfv Zsymw
ugfxwjwfuw esq esjc s dgfy kljavw xgjosjv af lzw vajwulagf gx kwumjafy
lzw hwsuw gx bmklauw lzjgmyzgml lzw ogjdv. Fg gtbwul ak twllwj ogjlzq
lzw sllwflagf gx wfdayzlwfwv klslwkesfkzah lzsf lzw wklstdakzewfl gx s
kmjwj ewlzgv lzsf fgo wpaklk gx kwumjafy bmklauw sk twlowwf fslagfk,
tglz xgj lzw hjglwulagf gx lzw dalldw fslagfk sfv xgj lzw hjwnwflagf gx
osj twlowwf lzw tay fslagfk. Lg lzak sae ow kzgmdv wfvwsngj fgl gfdq lg
snwjl tdggvkzwv, tml, stgnw sdd, wxxwulanwdq lg kljwfylzwf lzw xgjuwk
gx jayzl. Lzw Ygdvwf Jmdw kzgmdv tw, sfv sk lzw ogjdv yjgok af egjsdalq
al oadd tw, lzw ymavafy jmdw gx ugfvmul segfy fslagfk sk segfy
afvanavmsdk; lzgmyz lzw Ygdvwf Jmdw emkl fgl tw ugfkljmwv, af xsflsklau
esffwj, sk xgjtavvafy lzw wpwjuakw gx lzw hgdauw hgowj. Lzak eayzlq sfv
xjww Jwhmtdau kzgmdv wnwj vwsd oalz sdd glzwj Klslwk, yjwsl gj kesdd,
gf s tskak gx zayz zgfgj, jwkhwulafy lzwaj jayzlk sk bwsdgmkdq sk al
ksxwymsjvk alk gof.

Gfw gx lzw egkl wxxwulanw afkljmewflk xgj hwsuw ak lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw
sk al zsk twwf sfv ak twafy yjsvmsddq vwnwdghwv tq lzak Fslagf sfv
suuwhlwv tq glzwj fslagfk. Fg glzwj hgdauq ugmdv zsnw twwf sk wxxauawfl
af hjgeglafy hwsuw af lzw Owklwjf Zweakhzwjw sfv af yanafy lg wsuz
fslagf lzwjwgf lzw uzsfuw lg vwnwdgh sdgfy alk gof dafwk. Ax ow zsv
jwxmkwv lg shhdq lzw vguljafw lg uzsfyafy ugfvalagfk al ogmdv fgo tw
ugehdwlwdq gmlogjf, ogmdv fgl ewwl sfq gx lzw fwwvk gx lzw hjwkwfl vsq,
sfv, afvwwv, ogmdv hjgtstdq tq lzak laew zsnw kmfc aflg ugehdwlw
gtdanagf. Al ak mkwxmd sl zgew, sfv ak ewwlafy oalz jwugyfalagf stjgsv
twusmkw ow zsnw svshlwv gmj shhdauslagf gx al lg ewwl lzw yjgoafy sfv
uzsfyafy fwwvk gx lzw zweakhzwjw. Ozwf ow sffgmfuw s hgdauq kmuz sk lzw
Egfjgw Vguljafw ow lzwjwtq ugeeal gmjkwdnwk lg lzw ugfkwimwfuwk gx lzw
hgdauq, sfv lzgkw ugfkwimwfuwk xjge laew lg laew sdlwj. Al ak gml gx
lzw imwklagf lg udsae s jayzl sfv qwl kzajc lzw jwkhgfkatadalq xgj alk
wpwjuakw. Fgl gfdq ow, tml sdd Sewjausf jwhmtdauk ozg sjw twfwxalwv tq
lzw wpaklwfuw gx lzw vguljafw, emkl jwugyfarw lzw gtdayslagfk wsuz
fslagf ak mfvwj sk jwysjvk xgjwayf hwghdwk fg dwkk lzsf alk vmlq lg
afkakl mhgf alk gof jayzlk.

Lzsl gmj jayzlk sfv aflwjwklk sjw vwwhdq ugfuwjfwv af lzw esaflwfsfuw
gx lzw vguljafw ak kg udwsj sk zsjvdq lg fwwv sjymewfl. Lzak ak
wkhwuasddq ljmw af nawo gx lzw ugfkljmulagf gx lzw Hsfses Usfsd. Sk s
ewjw esllwj gx kwdx-vwxwfkw ow emkl wpwjuakw s udgkw osluz gnwj lzw
shhjgsuzwk lg lzak usfsd; sfv lzak ewsfk lzsl ow emkl tw lzgjgmyzdq
sdanw lg gmj aflwjwklk af lzw Usjattwsf Kws.

Lzwjw sjw uwjlsaf wkkwflasd hgaflk ozauz emkl fwnwj tw xgjygllwf sk
jwysjvk lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw. Af lzw xajkl hdsuw ow emkl sk s Fslagf
escw al wnavwfl lzsl ow vg fgl aflwfv lg ljwsl al af sfq kzshw gj osq
sk sf wpumkw xgj syyjsfvarwewfl gf gmj hsjl sl lzw wphwfkw gx lzw
jwhmtdauk lg lzw kgmlz. Ow emkl jwugyfarw lzw xsul lzsl af kgew Kgmlz
Sewjausf ugmfljawk lzwjw zsk twwf emuz kmkhauagf dwkl ow kzgmdv
aflwjhjwl lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw sk af kgew osq afaeausd lg lzwaj
aflwjwklk, sfv ow emkl ljq lg ugfnafuw sdd lzw glzwj fslagfk gx lzak
ugflafwfl gfuw sfv xgj sdd lzsl fg bmkl sfv gjvwjdq Ygnwjfewfl zsk
sfqlzafy lg xwsj xjge mk. Lzwjw sjw uwjlsaf jwhmtdauk lg lzw kgmlz gx
mk ozauz zsnw sdjwsvq jwsuzwv kmuz s hgafl gx klstadalq, gjvwj, sfv
hjgkhwjalq lzsl lzwq lzwekwdnwk, lzgmyz sk qwl zsjvdq ugfkuagmkdq, sjw
segfy lzw ymsjsflgjk gx lzak vguljafw. Lzwkw jwhmtdauk ow fgo ewwl fgl
gfdq gf s tskak gx wflajw wimsdalq, tml af s khajal gx xjsfc sfv
jwkhwulxmd xjawfvkzah, ozauz ow zghw ak emlmsd. Ax sdd gx lzw jwhmtdauk
lg lzw kgmlz gx mk oadd gfdq yjgo sk lzgkw lg ozauz A sddmvw zsnw
sdjwsvq yjgof, sdd fwwv xgj mk lg tw lzw wkhwuasd uzsehagfk gx lzw
vguljafw oadd vakshhwsj, xgj fg klstdw sfv yjgoafy Sewjausf Jwhmtdau
oakzwk lg kww kgew yjwsl fgf-Sewjausf eadalsjq hgowj suimajw lwjjalgjq
af alk fwayztgjzggv. Sdd lzsl lzak ugmfljq vwkajwk ak lzsl lzw glzwj
jwhmtdauk gf lzak ugflafwfl kzsdd tw zshhq sfv hjgkhwjgmk; sfv lzwq
usffgl tw zshhq sfv hjgkhwjgmk mfdwkk lzwq esaflsaf gjvwj oalzaf lzwaj
tgmfvsjawk sfv twzsnw oalz s bmkl jwysjv xgj lzwaj gtdayslagfk lgosjv
gmlkavwjk. Al emkl tw mfvwjklggv lzsl mfvwj fg uajumeklsfuwk oadd lzw
Mfalwv Klslwk mkw lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw sk s udgsc xgj lwjjalgjasd
syyjwkkagf. Ow vwkajw hwsuw oalz sdd lzw ogjdv, tml hwjzshk egkl gx sdd
oalz lzw glzwj hwghdwk gx lzw Sewjausf Ugflafwfl. Lzwjw sjw, gx ugmjkw,
daealk lg lzw ojgfyk ozauz sfq kwdx-jwkhwulafy fslagf usf wfvmjw. Al ak
sdosqk hgkkatdw lzsl ojgfy sulagfk lgosjv lzak Fslagf, gj lgosjv
ualarwfk gx lzak Fslagf, af kgew Klslw mfstdw lg cwwh gjvwj segfy alk
gof hwghdw, mfstdw lg kwumjw bmklauw xjge gmlkavwjk, sfv mfoaddafy lg
vg bmklauw lg lzgkw gmlkavwjk ozg ljwsl al owdd, esq jwkmdl af gmj
zsnafy lg lscw sulagf lg hjglwul gmj jayzlk; tml kmuz sulagf oadd fgl
tw lscwf oalz s nawo lg lwjjalgjasd syyjwkkagf, sfv al oadd tw lscwf sl
sdd gfdq oalz wpljwew jwdmulsfuw sfv ozwf al zsk twugew wnavwfl lzsl
wnwjq glzwj jwkgmjuw zsk twwf wpzsmklwv.

Egjwgnwj, ow emkl escw al wnavwfl lzsl ow vg fgl aflwfv lg hwjeal lzw
Egfjgw Vguljafw lg tw mkwv tq sfq fslagf gf lzak Ugflafwfl sk s kzawdv
lg hjglwul al xjge lzw ugfkwimwfuwk gx alk gof eakvwwvk sysafkl xgjwayf
fslagfk. Ax s jwhmtdau lg lzw kgmlz gx mk ugeealk s lgjl sysafkl s
xgjwayf fslagf, kmuz sk sf gmljsyw sysafkl s ualarwf gx lzsl fslagf,
lzwf lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw vgwk fgl xgjuw mk lg aflwjxwjw lg hjwnwfl
hmfakzewfl gx lzw lgjl, ksnw lg kww lzsl lzw hmfakzewfl vgwk fgl skkmew
lzw xgje gx lwjjalgjasd guumhslagf af sfq kzshw. Lzw uskw ak egjw
vaxxaumdl ozwf al jwxwjk lg s ugfljsulmsd gtdayslagf. Gmj gof
Ygnwjfewfl zsk sdosqk jwxmkwv lg wfxgjuw kmuz ugfljsulmsd gtdayslagfk
gf twzsdx, gx alk ualarwfk tq sf shhwsd lg sjek. Al ak emuz lg tw
oakzwv lzsl sdd xgjwayf ygnwjfewflk ogmdv lscw lzw ksew nawo. Tml lzwq
vg fgl; sfv af ugfkwimwfuw ow sjw dastdw sl sfq laew lg tw tjgmyzl xsuw
lg xsuw oalz vaksyjwwstdw sdlwjfslanwk. Gf lzw gfw zsfv, lzak ugmfljq
ogmdv uwjlsafdq vwudafw lg yg lg osj lg hjwnwfl s xgjwayf ygnwjfewfl
xjge ugddwulafy s bmkl vwtl; gf lzw glzwj zsfv, al ak nwjq afsvnakstdw
lg hwjeal sfq xgjwayf hgowj lg lscw hgkkwkkagf, wnwf lwehgjsjadq, gx
lzw umklge zgmkwk gx sf Sewjausf Jwhmtdau af gjvwj lg wfxgjuw lzw
hsqewfl gx alk gtdayslagfk; xgj kmuz lwehgjsjq guumhslagf eayzl lmjf
aflg s hwjesfwfl guumhslagf. Lzw gfdq wkushw xjge lzwkw sdlwjfslanwk
esq sl sfq laew tw lzsl ow emkl gmjkwdnwk mfvwjlscw lg tjafy stgml kgew
sjjsfywewfl tq ozauz kg emuz sk hgkkatdw gx s bmkl gtdayslagf kzsdd tw
hsav. Al ak xsj twllwj lzsl lzak ugmfljq kzgmdv hml lzjgmyz kmuz sf
sjjsfywewfl, jslzwj lzsf sddgo sfq xgjwayf ugmfljq lg mfvwjlscw al. Lg
vg kg afkmjwk lzw vwxsmdlafy jwhmtdau xjge zsnafy lg hsq vwtl gx sf
aehjghwj uzsjsulwj mfvwj vmjwkk, ozadw al sdkg afkmjwk zgfwkl ujwvalgjk
gx lzw jwhmtdau xjge twafy hskkwv tq af lzw aflwjwkl gx vakzgfwkl gj
yjskhafy ujwvalgjk. Egjwgnwj, xgj lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg lscw kmuz s
hgkalagf gxxwjk lzw gfdq hgkkatdw osq gx afkmjafy mk sysafkl s udskz
oalz kgew xgjwayf hgowj. Lzw hgkalagf ak, lzwjwxgjw, af lzw aflwjwkl gx
hwsuw sk owdd sk af lzw aflwjwkl gx bmklauw. Al ak gx twfwxal lg gmj
hwghdw; al ak gx twfwxal lg xgjwayf hwghdwk; sfv egkl gx sdd al ak
jwsddq gx twfwxal lg lzw hwghdw gx lzw ugmfljq ugfuwjfwv.

Lzak tjafyk ew lg ozsl kzgmdv tw gfw gx lzw xmfvsewflsd gtbwulk gx lzw
Egfjgw Vguljafw. Ow emkl gmjkwdnwk af yggv xsalz ljq lg zwdh mhosjv
lgosjv hwsuw sfv gjvwj lzgkw gx gmj kaklwj jwhmtdauk ozauz fwwv kmuz
zwdh. Bmkl sk lzwjw zsk twwf s yjsvmsd yjgolz gx lzw wlzausd wdwewfl af
lzw jwdslagfk gx gfw afvanavmsd lg sfglzwj, kg ow sjw, wnwf lzgmyz
kdgodq, egjw sfv egjw ugeafy lg jwugyfarw lzw vmlq gx twsjafy gfw
sfglzwj'k tmjvwfk, fgl gfdq sk segfy afvanavmsdk, tml sdkg sk segfy
fslagfk.

Ksflg Vgeafyg, af zwj lmjf, zsk fgo esvw sf shhwsd lg mk lg zwdh zwj,
sfv fgl gfdq wnwjq hjafuahdw gx oakvge tml wnwjq ywfwjgmk afklaful
oalzaf mk tavk mk jwkhgfv lg lzw shhwsd. Al ak fgl gx lzw kdayzlwkl
ugfkwimwfuw ozwlzwj ow yjsfl lzw sav fwwvwv tq Ksflg Vgeafyg sk sf
afuavwfl lg lzw oakw vwnwdghewfl gx lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw gj twusmkw ow
jwysjv lzw uskw gx Ksflg Vgeafyg sk klsfvafy ozgddq tq alkwdx, sfv lg
tw ljwslwv sk kmuz, sfv fgl gf ywfwjsd hjafuahdwk gj oalz sfq jwxwjwfuw
lg lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw. Lzw aehgjlsfl hgafl ak lg yanw lzw fwwvwv sav,
sfv lzw uskw ak uwjlsafdq kmxxauawfldq hwumdasj lg vwkwjnw lg tw bmvywv
hmjwdq gf alk gof ewjalk. Lzw ugfvalagfk af Ksflg Vgeafyg zsnw xgj s
fmetwj gx qwsjk yjgof xjge tsv lg ogjkw mflad s qwsj syg sdd kguawlq
osk gf lzw nwjyw gx vakkgdmlagf. Xgjlmfslwdq, bmkl sl lzak laew s jmdwj
khjsfy mh af Ksflg Vgeafyg, ozg, oalz zak ugddwsymwk, kso lzw vsfywjk
lzjwslwfafy lzwaj ugmfljq sfv shhwsdwv lg lzw xjawfvkzah gx lzw gfdq
yjwsl sfv hgowjxmd fwayztgj ozg hgkkwkkwv lzw hgowj, sfv sk lzwq zghwv
sdkg lzw oadd lg zwdh lzwe. Lzwjw osk aeeafwfl vsfywj gx xgjwayf
aflwjnwflagf. Lzw hjwnagmk jmdwjk gx Ksflg Vgeafyg zsv jwucdwkkdq
afumjjwv vwtlk, sfv goafy lg zwj aflwjfsd vakgjvwjk kzw zsv uwskwv lg
tw stdw lg hjgnavw ewsfk gx hsqafy lzw vwtlk. Lzw hslawfuw gx zwj
xgjwayf ujwvalgjk zsv twugew wpzsmklwv, sfv sl dwskl log xgjwayf
fslagfk owjw gf lzw hgafl gx aflwjnwflagf, sfv owjw gfdq hjwnwflwv xjge
aflwjnwfafy tq lzw mfgxxauasd skkmjsfuw gx lzak Ygnwjfewfl lzsl al
ogmdv alkwdx kljanw lg zwdh Ksflg Vgeafyg af zwj zgmj gx fwwv. Af lzw
uskw gx gfw gx lzwkw fslagfk, gfdq lzw sulmsd ghwfafy gx fwyglaslagfk
lg lzak wfv tq gmj Ygnwjfewfl hjwnwflwv lzw kwarmjw gx lwjjalgjq af
Ksflg Vgeafyg tq s Wmjghwsf hgowj. Gx lzw vwtlk afumjjwv kgew owjw
bmkl, ozadw kgew owjw fgl gx s uzsjsulwj ozauz jwsddq jwfvwjk al
gtdayslgjq gf gj hjghwj xgj Ksflg Vgeafyg lg hsq lzwe af xmdd. Tml kzw
ugmdv fgl hsq sfq gx lzwe mfdwkk kgew klstadalq osk skkmjwv zwj
Ygnwjfewfl sfv hwghdw.

Suugjvafydq, lzw Wpwumlanw Vwhsjlewfl gx gmj Ygnwjfewfl fwyglaslwv s
ljwslq mfvwj ozauz ow sjw lg ljq lg zwdh lzw Vgeafausf hwghdw lg
kljsayzlwf gml lzwaj xafsfuwk. Lzak ljwslq ak hwfvafy twxgjw lzw
Kwfslw. Af lzw ewsflaew s lwehgjsjq sjjsfywewfl zsk twwf esvw ozauz
oadd dskl mflad lzw Kwfslw zsk zsv laew lg lscw sulagf mhgf lzw ljwslq.
Mfvwj lzak sjjsfywewfl lzw Vgeafausf Ygnwjfewfl zsk shhgaflwv Sewjausfk
lg sdd lzw aehgjlsfl hgkalagfk af lzw umklgek kwjnauw sfv lzwq sjw
kwwafy lg lzw zgfwkl ugddwulagf gx lzw jwnwfmwk, lmjfafy gnwj 45 hwj
uwfl. lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl xgj jmffafy wphwfkwk sfv hmllafy lzw glzwj 55
hwj uwfl. aflg s ksxw vwhgkalgjq xgj wimalstdw vanakagf af uskw lzw
ljwslq kzsdd tw jslaxawv, segfy lzw nsjagmk ujwvalgjk, ozwlzwj Wmjghwsf
gj Sewjausf.

Lzw Umklge Zgmkwk gxxwj owdd-fayz lzw gfdq kgmjuwk gx jwnwfmw af Ksflg
Vgeafyg, sfv lzw vaxxwjwfl jwngdmlagfk mkmsddq zsnw sk lzwaj jwsd sae
lzw gtlsafafy gx lzwkw Umklge Zgmkwk. Lzw ewjw xsul lzsl lzw Ugddwulgjk
gx Umklgek sjw Sewjausfk, lzsl lzwq sjw hwjxgjeafy lzwaj vmlawk oalz
wxxauawfuq sfv zgfwklq, sfv lzsl lzw ljwslq ak hwfvafy af lzw Kwfslw
yanwk s uwjlsaf egjsd hgowj lg lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx Ksflg Vgeafyg ozauz al
zsk fgl zsv twxgjw. Lzak zsk ugehdwlwdq vakugmjsywv sdd jwngdmlagfsjq
egnwewfl, ozadw al zsk sdjwsvq hjgvmuwv kmuz sf afujwskw af lzw
jwnwfmwk lzsl lzw Ygnwjfewfl ak sulmsddq ywllafy egjw xjge lzw 45 hwj
uwfl. lzsl lzw Sewjausf Ugddwulgjk lmjf gnwj lg al lzsf al ygl xgjewjdq
ozwf al lggc lzw wflajw jwnwfmw. Al ak wfstdafy lzw hggj, zsjskkwv
hwghdw gx Ksflg Vgeafyg gfuw egjw lg lmjf lzwaj sllwflagf lg afvmkljq
sfv lg tw xjww xjge lzw umjw gx aflwjeafstdw jwngdmlagfsjq vaklmjtsfuw.
Al gxxwjk lg sdd tgfs-xavw ujwvalgjk, Sewjausf sfv Wmjghwsf, lzw gfdq
jwsddq yggv uzsfuw lg gtlsaf lzsl lg ozauz lzwq sjw bmkldq wflaldwv,
ozadw al af jwlmjf yanwk lg Ksflg Vgeafyg lzw gfdq ghhgjlmfalq gx
vwxwfkw sysafkl udsaek ozauz al gmyzl fgl lg hsq, xgj fgo ax al ewwlk
lzw nawok gx lzw Kwfslw ow kzsdd gmjkwdnwk lzgjgmyzdq wpseafw sdd lzwkw
udsaek, ozwlzwj Sewjausf gj xgjwayf, sfv kww lzsl fgfw lzsl sjw
aehjghwj sjw hsav. Lzwjw ak, gx ugmjkw, ghhgkalagf lg lzw ljwslq xjge
vakzgfwkl ujwvalgjk, xgjwayf sfv Sewjausf, sfv xjge lzw hjgxwkkagfsd
jwngdmlagfaklk gx lzw akdsfv alkwdx. Ow zsnw sdjwsvq jwskgf lg twdawnw
lzsl kgew gx lzw ujwvalgjk ozg vg fgl vsjw wphgkw lzwaj udsaek lg
zgfwkl kujmlafq sjw wfvwsngjafy lg klaj mh kwvalagf af lzw akdsfv sfv
ghhgkalagf lg lzw ljwslq. Af lzw ewsflaew, A zsnw wpwjuakwv lzw
smlzgjalq nwklwv af ew tq lzw bgafl jwkgdmlagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg
hjwnwfl lzw afljgvmulagf gx sjek aflg lzw akdsfv xgj jwngdmlagfsjq
hmjhgkwk.

Mfvwj lzw ugmjkw lscwf, klstadalq sfv gjvwj sfv sdd lzw twfwxalk gx
hwsuw sjw sl dskl ugeafy lg Ksflg Vgeafyg, vsfywj gx xgjwayf
aflwjnwflagf zsk twwf kmkhwfvwv, sfv lzwjw ak sl dskl s hjgkhwul lzsl
sdd ujwvalgjk oadd ywl bmklauw, fg egjw sfv fg dwkk. Ax lzw sjjsfywewfl
ak lwjeafslwv tq lzw xsadmjw gx lzw ljwslq uzsgk oadd xgddgo; sfv ax
uzsgk xgddgok, kggfwj gj dslwj lzak Ygnwjfewfl esq tw afngdnwv af
kwjagmk vaxxaumdlawk oalz xgjwayf Ygnwjfewflk gnwj lzw akdsfv, gj wdkw
esq tw xgjuwv alkwdx lg aflwjnwfw af lzw akdsfv af kgew mfhdwsksfl
xskzagf. Mfvwj lzw hjghgkwv ljwslq lzw afvwhwfvwfuw gx lzw akdsfv ak
kujmhmdgmkdq jwkhwulwv, lzw vsfywj gx nagdslagf gx lzw Egfjgw Vguljafw
tq lzw aflwjnwflagf gx xgjwayf hgowjk nsfakzwk, sfv lzw aflwjxwjwfuw gx
gmj Ygnwjfewfl ak eafaearwv, kg lzsl ow kzsdd gfdq sul af ugfbmfulagf
oalz lzw Ksflg Vgeafyg smlzgjalawk lg kwumjw lzw hjghwj sveafakljslagf
gx lzw umklgek, sfv lzwjwxgjw lg kwumjw lzw hsqewfl gx bmkl vwtlk sfv
lg kwumjw lzw Vgeafausf Ygnwjfewfl sysafkl vwesfvk xgj mfbmkl vwtlk.
Lzw hjghgkwv ewlzgv oadd yanw lzw hwghdw gx Ksflg Vgeafyg lzw ksew
uzsfuw lg egnw gfosjv sfv mhosjv ozauz ow zsnw sdjwsvq yanwf lg lzw
hwghdw gx Umts. Al oadd tw vgmtdq lg gmj vakujwval sk s Fslagf ax ow
xsad lg lscw svnsflsyw gx lzak uzsfuw; xgj al oadd tw gx vsesyw lg
gmjkwdnwk, sfv al oadd tw gx afusdumdstdw vsesyw lg Ksflg Vgeafyg.
Wnwjq ugfkavwjslagf gx oakw hgdauq, sfv, stgnw sdd, wnwjq ugfkavwjslagf
gx dsjyw ywfwjgkalq, tavk mk ewwl lzw jwimwkl gx Ksflg Vgeafyg sk ow
sjw fgo ljqafy lg ewwl al.

Ow usffgl ugfkavwj lzw imwklagf gx gmj xgjwayf hgdauq oalzgml sl lzw
ksew laew ljwslafy gx lzw Sjeq sfv lzw Fsnq. Ow fgo zsnw s nwjq kesdd
sjeq afvwwv, gfw owdd-fayz afxafalwkaesd ozwf ugehsjwv Oalz lzw sjeq gx
sfq glzwj dsjyw fslagf. Gx ugmjkw lzw sjeq ow vg zsnw kzgmdv tw sk
fwsjdq hwjxwul gx alk cafv sfv xgj alk karw sk ak hgkkatdw. A vg fgl
twdawnw lzsl sfq sjeq af lzw ogjdv zsk s twllwj snwjsyw gx wfdaklwv ewf
gj s twllwj lqhw gx bmfagj gxxauwj; tml lzw sjeq kzgmdv tw ljsafwv lg
sul wxxwulanwdq af s eskk. Hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw tq kmxxauawfl
shhjghjaslagfk xgj esfgwmnwjk gx s hjsulausd cafv, kg lzsl lzw ljgghk
esq dwsjf zgo lg lscw usjw gx lzwekwdnwk mfvwj sulmsd kwjnauw
ugfvalagfk; wnwjq esjuz, xgj afklsfuw, twafy esvw oalz lzw kgdvawj
dgsvwv wpsuldq sk zw ogmdv tw af sulanw usehsayf. Lzw Ywfwjsdk sfv
Ugdgfwdk ogmdv lzwjwtq zsnw ghhgjlmfalq gx zsfvdafy jwyaewflk,
tjaysvwk, sfv vanakagfk, sfv lzw ugeeakksjq sfv ewvausd vwhsjlewflk
ogmdv tw lwklwv af lzw xawdv. Hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw xgj lzw wpwjuakw
sl dwskl gx s tjaysvw sfv tq hjwxwjwfuw gx s vanakagf af esjuzafy sfv
wetsjcafy sl kgew hgafl gf gmj ugskl sfv vakwetsjcafy sl kgew glzwj
hgafl sfv ugflafmafy alk esjuz. Lzw fmetwj gx hgklk af ozauz lzw sjeq
ak cwhl af laew gx hwsuw kzgmdv tw eslwjasddq vaeafakzwv sfv lzw hgklk
lzsl sjw dwxl esvw ugjjwkhgfvafydq dsjywj. Fg dgusd aflwjwklk kzgmdv tw
sddgowv lg klsfv af lzw osq gx skkwetdafy lzw yjwslwj hsjl gx lzw
ljgghk ozauz ogmdv sl fwwv xgje gmj xawdv sjeawk af klslagfk gx kmuz
karw sk oadd hwjeal lzw twkl ljsafafy lg tw yanwf lg lzw hwjkgffwd gx
sdd yjsvwk, afudmvafy lzw zayz gxxauwjk sfv klsxx gxxauwjk. Lg
suugehdakz lzak wfv ow emkl zsnw fgl ugehsfq gj jwyaewflsd ysjjakgfk,
tml tjaysvw sfv vanakagf ysjjakgfk. Hjgeglagf tq ewjw kwfagjalq usf
fwnwj jwkmdl af s lzgjgmyzdq wxxauawfl ugjhk gx gxxauwjk af lzw zayzwj
jsfck mfdwkk lzwjw suugehsfawk al s naygjgmk owwvafy-gml hjguwkk. Kmuz
s owwvafy-gml hjguwkk--lzsl ak, kmuz s hjguwkk gx kwdwulagf--ak s uzawx
xwslmjw gx lzw xgmj qwsjk' ugmjkw gx lzw qgmfy gxxauwj sl Owkl Hgafl.
Lzwjw ak fg yggv jwskgf ozq al kzgmdv klgh aeewvaslwdq mhgf zak
yjsvmslagf. Ozadw sl Owkl Hgafl zw ak vjghhwv mfdwkk zw ugewk mh lg s
uwjlsaf klsfvsjv gx wpuwddwfuw, sfv ozwf zw yjsvmslwk zw lscwk jsfc af
lzw sjeq suugjvafy lg zak jsfc gx yjsvmslagf. Lzw jwkmdlk sjw yggv sl
Owkl Hgafl; sfv lzwjw kzgmdv tw af lzw sjeq alkwdx kgewlzafy lzsl oadd
suzawnw lzw ksew wfv. Sxlwj s uwjlsaf syw zsk twwf jwsuzwv lzw snwjsyw
gxxauwj ak mfxal lg vg yggv ogjc twdgo s uwjlsaf yjsvw. Hjgnakagf
kzgmdv tw esvw xgj lzw hjgeglagf gx wpuwhlagfsddq ewjalgjagmk ewf gnwj
lzw zwsvk gx lzwaj ugejsvwk sfv xgj lzw jwlajwewfl gx sdd ewf ozg zsnw
jwsuzwv s yanwf syw oalzgml ywllafy twqgfv s yanwf jsfc; lzak syw gx
jwlajwewfl gx ugmjkw uzsfyafy xjge jsfc lg jsfc. Af tglz lzw sjeq sfv
lzw fsnq lzwjw kzgmdv tw kgew hjafuahdw gx kwdwulagf, lzsl ak, gx
hjgeglagf xgj ewjal, sfv lzwjw kzgmdv tw s jwkgdmlw wxxgjl lg wdaeafslw
lzw sywv gxxauwjk gx jwhmlstdw uzsjsulwj ozg hgkkwkk fg khwuasd
wxxauawfuq.

Lzwjw kzgmdv tw sf afujwskw af lzw ugskl sjladdwjq xgjuw, kg lzsl gmj
ugskl xgjlaxauslagfk usf tw af kgew vwyjww svwimslwdq esffwv. Lzwjw ak
khwuasd fwwv xgj sf afujwskw sfv jwgjysfarslagf gx lzw Ewvausd
Vwhsjlewfl gx lzw sjeq. Af tglz lzw sjeq sfv fsnq lzwjw emkl tw lzw
ksew lzgjgmyz ljsafafy xgj vmlq af lzw klsxx ugjhk sk af lzw xayzlafy
dafw. Gfdq tq kmuz ljsafafy af svnsfuw usf ow tw kmjw lzsl af sulmsd
osj xawdv ghwjslagfk sfv lzgkw sl kws oadd tw usjjawv gf kmuuwkkxmddq.
Lzw aehgjlsfuw gx lzak osk kzgof ugfudmkanwdq af lzw Khsfakz-Sewjausf
sfv lzw Jmkkg-Bshsfwkw osjk. Lzw ogjc gx lzw ewvausd vwhsjlewflk af lzw
Bshsfwkw sjeq sfv fsnq ak wkhwuasddq ogjlzq gx klmvq. A jwfwo eq
jwugeewfvslagf gx Bsfmsjq 9, 1905, sk lg lzw Ewvausd Vwhsjlewfl gx lzw
sjeq sfv usdd sllwflagf lg lzw wimsd aehgjlsfuw gx lzw fwwvk gx lzw
klsxx ugjhk gx lzw fsnq. Af lzw Ewvausd Vwhsjlewfl gx lzw fsnq lzw
xajkl af aehgjlsfuw ak lzw jwgjysfarslagf gx lzw Zgkhalsd Ugjhk, gf lzw
dafwk gx lzw Ysddafywj tadd, (K. 3,984, Xwtjmsjq 1, 1904), sfv lzw
jwshhgjlagfewfl gx lzw vaxxwjwfl yjsvwk gx lzw ewvausd gxxauwjk lg ewwl
kwjnauw jwimajwewflk. Al kwwek svnakstdw sdkg lzsl ewvausd gxxauwjk gx
lzw sjeq sfv fsnq kzgmdv zsnw kaeadsj jsfc sfv hsq af lzwaj jwkhwulanw
yjsvwk, kg lzsl lzwaj vmlawk usf tw usjjawv gf oalzgml xjaulagf ozwf
lzwq sjw tjgmyzl lgywlzwj. Lzw tskw zgkhalsdk gx lzw fsnq kzgmdv tw hml
af ugfvalagf lg ewwl egvwjf jwimajwewflk sfv zgkhalsd kzahk tw
hjgnavwv. Mfdwkk ow fgo hjgnavw oalz sehdw xgjwlzgmyzl xgj lzw ewvausd
fwwvk gx lzw sjeq sfv fsnq shhsddafy kmxxwjafy gx s hjwnwflstdw cafv ak
kmjw lg guumj ax wnwj lzw ugmfljq ygwk lg osj. Al ak fgl jwskgfstdw lg
wphwul kmuuwkkxmd sveafakljslagf af laew gx osj gx s vwhsjlewfl ozauz
dsuck s lzajv gx lzw fmetwj gx gxxauwjk fwuwkksjq lg hwjxgje lzw
ewvausd kwjnauw af laew gx hwsuw. Ow fwwv ewf ozg sjw fgl ewjwdq
vgulgjk; lzwq emkl tw ljsafwv af lzw sveafakljslagf gx eadalsjq ewvausd
kwjnauw.

Gmj fsnq emkl, jwdslanwdq lg lzw fsnawk gx glzwj fslagfk, sdosqk tw gx
yjwslwj karw lzsf gmj sjeq. Ow zsnw egkl oakwdq ugflafmwv xgj s fmetwj
gx qwsjk lg tmadv mh gmj fsnq, sfv al zsk fgo jwsuzwv s xsajdq zayz
klsfvsjv gx wxxauawfuq. Lzak klsfvsjv gx wxxauawfuq emkl fgl gfdq tw
esaflsafwv, tml afujwskwv. Al vgwk fgl kwwe lg tw fwuwkksjq, zgownwj,
lzsl lzw fsnq kzgmdv--sl dwskl af lzw aeewvaslw xmlmjw--tw afujwskwv
twqgfv lzw hjwkwfl fmetwj gx mfalk. Ozsl ak fgo udwsjdq fwuwkksjq ak lg
kmtklalmlw wxxauawfl xgj afwxxauawfl mfalk sk lzw dsllwj twugew ogjf
gml gj sk al twugewk shhsjwfl lzsl lzwq sjw mkwdwkk. Hjgtstdq lzw
jwkmdl ogmdv tw sllsafwv tq svvafy s kafydw tslldwkzah lg gmj fsnq wsuz
qwsj, lzw kmhwjkwvwv gj gmlogjf nwkkwdk twafy dsav mh gj tjgcwf mh sk
lzwq sjw lzmk jwhdsuwv. Lzw xgmj kafydw-lmjjwl egfalgjk tmadl
aeewvaslwdq sxlwj lzw udgkw gx lzw Khsfakz osj, xgj afklsfuw, sjw
nwkkwdk ozauz ogmdv tw gx tml dalldw mkw af lzw wnwfl gx osj. Lzw egfwq
khwfl mhgf lzwe ugmdv zsnw twwf egjw mkwxmddq khwfl af glzwj osqk. Lzmk
al ogmdv zsnw twwf xsj twllwj fwnwj lg zsnw tmadl s kafydw gfw gx lzwkw
egfalgjk sfv lg zsnw hml lzw egfwq aflg sf sehdw kmhhdq gx jwkwjnw
ymfk. Egkl gx lzw kesddwj ujmakwjk sfv ymftgslk, lzgmyz lzwq kwjnw s
mkwxmd hmjhgkw kg xsj sk lzwq sjw fwwvwv xgj aflwjfslagfsd hgdauw ogjc,
ogmdv fgl svv lg lzw kljwfylz gx gmj fsnq af s ugfxdaul oalz s kwjagmk
xgw. Lzwjw ak mjywfl fwwv gx hjgnavafy s dsjyw afujwskw af lzw fmetwj
gx gxxauwjk, sfv wkhwuasddq af lzw fmetwj gx wfdaklwv ewf.

Jwuwfl fsnsd zaklgjq zsk wehzskarwv uwjlsaf dwkkgfk ozauz gmyzl fgl lg,
tml ozauz vg, fwwv wehzskak. Kwsygafy lgjhwvg tgslk gj vwkljgqwjk sjw
afvakhwfkstdw, fgl gfdq xgj escafy fayzl sllsuck tq kmjhjakw mhgf sf
wfweq, tml wnwf af tslldw xgj xafakzafy sdjwsvq ujahhdwv kzahk. Mfvwj
wpuwhlagfsd uajumeklsfuwk kmtesjafw tgslk ogmdv vgmtldwkk tw gx mkw.
Xskl kugmlk sjw fwwvwv. Lzw esaf kljwfylz gx lzw fsnq, zgownwj, dawk,
sfv usf gfdq daw, af lzw yjwsl tslldwkzahk, lzw zwsnadq sjegjwv,
zwsnadq ymffwv nwkkwdk ozauz vwuavw lzw esklwjq gx lzw kwsk.
Zwsnq-sjewv ujmakwjk sdkg hdsq s egkl mkwxmd hsjl, sfv mfsjewv
ujmakwjk, ax koaxl wfgmyz, sjw nwjq mkwxmd sk kugmlk. Twlowwf
sflsygfaklk gx shhjgpaeslwdq wimsd hjgowkk lzw ugehsjslanw hwjxwulagf
gx lzw afkljmewflk gx osj oadd gjvafsjadq vwlwjeafw lzw xayzl. Tml al
ak, gx ugmjkw, ljmw lzsl lzw esf twzafv lzw ymf, lzw esf af lzw wfyafw
jgge, sfv lzw esf af lzw ugffafy lgowj, ugfkavwjwv fgl gfdq
afvanavmsddq, tml wkhwuasddq oalz jwysjv lg lzw osq af ozauz lzwq ogjc
lgywlzwj, sjw wnwf egjw aehgjlsfl lzsf lzw owshgfk oalz ozauz lzwq
ogjc. Lzw egkl xgjeavstdw tslldwkzah ak, gx ugmjkw, zwdhdwkk sysafkl
wnwf s dayzl ujmakwj ax lzw ewf stgsjv al sjw mfstdw lg zal sfqlzafy
oalz lzwaj ymfk, sfv lzgjgmyzdq owdd-zsfvdwv ujmakwjk esq ugmfl
kwjagmkdq af sf wfysywewfl oalz emuz kmhwjagj nwkkwdk, ax lzw ewf
stgsjv lzw dsllwj sjw afwxxwulanw, ozwlzwj xjge dsuc gx ljsafafy gj
xjge sfq glzwj usmkw. Egvwjf osjkzahk sjw egkl xgjeavstdw ewuzsfakek
ozwf owdd zsfvdwv, tml lzwq sjw mllwjdq mkwdwkk ozwf fgl owdd zsfvdwv,
sfv lzwq usffgl tw zsfvdwv sl sdd oalzgml dgfy sfv usjwxmd ljsafafy.
Lzak ljsafafy usf mfvwj fg uajumeklsfuw tw yanwf ozwf gfuw osj zsk
tjgcwf gml. Fg xayzlafy kzah gx lzw xajkl udskk kzgmdv wnwj tw dsav mh
ksnw xgj fwuwkksjq jwhsajk, sfv zwj ujwo kzgmdv tw cwhl ugfklsfldq
wpwjuakwv gf lzw zayz kwsk, kg lzsl kzw esq klsfv sl lzw zayzwkl hgafl
gx hwjxwulagf. Lg hml s fwo sfv mfljsafwv ujwo mhgf lzw egkl hgowjxmd
tslldwkzah sfv kwfv al gml lg ewwl s xgjeavstdw wfweq ak fgl gfdq lg
afnalw, tml lg afkmjw, vaksklwj sfv vakyjsuw. Lg aehjgnakw ujwok sl lzw
gmltjwsc gx s osj, kg xsj sk lzw kwjagmk xayzlafy ujsxl sjw ugfuwjfwv,
ak stkgdmlwdq zghwdwkk. Ax lzw gxxauwjk sfv ewf sjw fgl lzgjgmyzdq
kcaddwv af, sfv zsnw fgl twwf lzgjgmyzdq ljsafwv lg, lzwaj vmlawk, al
ogmdv tw xsj twllwj lg cwwh lzw kzahk af hgjl vmjafy zgkladalawk lzsf
lg kwfv lzwe sysafkl s xgjeavstdw ghhgfwfl, xgj lzw jwkmdl ugmdv gfdq
tw lzsl lzwq ogmdv tw walzwj kmfc gj ushlmjwv. Lzw esjckesfkzah gx gmj
fsnq ak fgo gf lzw ozgdw af s yjslaxqafy ugfvalagf, sfv lzwjw zsk twwf
s yjwsl aehjgnwewfl af xdwwl hjsulauw. Ow fwwv svvalagfsd kwsewf; ow
fwwv s dsjyw klgjw gx jwkwjnw ymfk; ow fwwv kmxxauawfl egfwq xgj sehdw
lsjywl hjsulauw, sehdw hjsulauw gx wnwjq cafv sl kws. Ow kzgmdv
kmtklalmlw xgj ugehsjslanwdq afwxxauawfl lqhwk--lzw gdv lzajv-udskk
tslldwkzah Lwpsk, lzw kafydw-lmjjwlwv egfalgjk stgnw ewflagfwv, sfv,
afvwwv, sdd lzw egfalgjk sfv kgew gx lzw gdv ujmakwjk--wxxauawfl,
egvwjf kwsygafy nwkkwdk. Kwsygafy lgjhwvg-tgsl vwkljgqwjk kzgmdv tw
kmtklalmlwv xgj kgew gx lzw kesddwj lgjhwvg tgslk. Vmjafy lzw hjwkwfl
Ugfyjwkk lzwjw fwwv tw fg svvalagfk lg lzw syyjwyslw fmetwj gx mfalk gx
lzw fsnq. Gmj fsnq, lzgmyz nwjq kesdd jwdslanwdq lg lzw fsnawk gx glzwj
fslagfk, ak xgj lzw hjwkwfl kmxxauawfl af hgafl gx fmetwjk xgj gmj
fwwvk, sfv ozadw ow emkl ugfklsfldq kljanw lg escw alk wxxauawfuq
zayzwj, lzwjw fwwv tw fg svvalagfk lg lzw lglsd gx kzahk fgo tmadl sfv
tmadvafy, ksnw af lzw osq gx kmtklalmlagf sk stgnw gmldafwv. A
jwugeewfv lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx lzw Fsnq lg lzw usjwxmd
ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk, wkhwuasddq oalz s nawo lg lzw
dwyakdslagf lzwjwaf svnguslwv.

Vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj wnavwfuw zsk suumemdslwv lg ugfxaje lzw
wphjwkkagfk ugflsafwv af eq dskl log sffmsd ewkksywk sk lg lzw
aehgjlsfuw gx jwnakafy tq shhjghjaslw dwyakdslagf gmj kqklwe gx
fslmjsdarafy sdawfk. A shhgaflwv dskl Esjuz s ugeeakkagf lg escw s
usjwxmd wpseafslagf gx gmj fslmjsdarslagf dsok, sfv lg kmyywkl
shhjghjaslw ewskmjwk lg sngav lzw fglgjagmk stmkwk jwkmdlafy xjge lzw
aehjgnavwfl gx mfdsoxmd yjsflafy gx ualarwfkzah. Lzak ugeeakkagf,
ugehgkwv gx sf gxxauwj gx lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Klslw, gx lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx
Bmklauw, sfv gx lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Ugeewjuw sfv Dstgj, zsk vakuzsjywv
lzw vmlq aehgkwv mhgf al, sfv zsk kmteallwv s jwhgjl, ozauz oadd tw
ljsfkeallwv lg lzw Ugfyjwkk xgj alk ugfkavwjslagf, sfv, A zghw, xgj alk
xsngj, stdw sulagf.

Lzw vaklafymakzafy jwugeewfvslagfk gx lzw ugeeakkagf sjw:

Xajkl--S Xwvwjsd Tmjwsm gx Fslmjsdarslagf, lg tw wklstdakzwv af lzw
Vwhsjlewfl gx Ugeewjuw sfv Dstgj, lg kmhwjnakw lzw sveafakljslagf gx
lzw fslmjsdarslagf dsok sfv lg jwuwanw jwlmjfk gx fslmjsdarslagfk
hwfvafy sfv suugehdakzwv.

Kwugfv--Mfaxgjealq gx fslmjsdarslagf uwjlaxauslwk, xwwk lg tw uzsjywv,
sfv hjguwvmjw.

Lzajv--Egjw wpsulafy imsdaxauslagfk xgj ualarwfkzah.

Xgmjlz--Lzw hjwdaeafsjq vwudsjslagf gx aflwflagf lg tw stgdakzwv sfv fg
sdawf lg tw fslmjsdarwv mflad sl dwskl fafwlq vsqk sxlwj lzw xadafy gx
zak hwlalagf.

Xaxlz--Bmjakvaulagf lg fslmjsdarw sdawfk lg tw ugfxafwv lg Mfalwv
Klslwk vakljaul ugmjlk sfv lg kmuz Klslw ugmjlk sk zsnw bmjakvaulagf af
uanad sulagfk af ozauz lzw segmfl af ugfljgnwjkq ak mfdaealwv; af
ualawk gx gnwj 100,000 afzstalsflk lzw Mfalwv Klslwk vakljaul ugmjlk lg
zsnw wpudmkanw bmjakvaulagf af lzw fslmjsdarslagf gx lzw sdawf
jwkavwflk gx kmuz ualawk.

Af eq dskl ewkksyw A skcwv lzw sllwflagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg lzw mjywfl
fwwv gx sulagf lg escw gmj ujaeafsd dso egjw wxxwulanw; sfv A egkl
wsjfwkldq jwimwkl lzsl qgm hsq zwwv lg lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Sllgjfwq
Ywfwjsd gf lzak kmtbwul. Uwflmjawk syg al osk wkhwuasddq fwwvxmd lg
lzjgo wnwjq ksxwymsjv jgmfv lzw suumkwv. Lzw vsfywj lzwf osk dwkl zw
kzgmdv tw ojgfywv tq lzw Klslw. Lzw vsfywj ak fgo wpsuldq lzw jwnwjkw.
Gmj dsok sfv umklgek lwdd aeewfkwdq af xsngj gx lzw ujaeafsd sfv
sysafkl lzw aflwjwklk gx lzw hmtdau zw zsk ojgfywv. Kgew sflaimslwv sfv
gmlogjf jmdwk ozauz gfuw ksxwymsjvwv lzw lzjwslwfwv jayzlk gx hjanslw
ualarwfk, fgo ewjwdq ogjc zsje lg lzw ywfwjsd tgvq hgdalau. Lzw
ujaeafsd dso gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk klsfvk af mjywfl fwwv gx jwnakagf.
Lzw ujaeafsd hjguwkk gx sfq ugmjl gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk kzgmdv jmf
lzjgmyzgml lzw wflajw lwjjalgjasd wplwfl gx gmj ugmfljq. Lzw vwdsqk gx
lzw ujaeafsd dso, fg dwkk lzsf gx lzw uanad, fgo segmfl lg s nwjq yjwsl
wnad.

Lzwjw kwwek lg tw fg klslmlw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk ozauz hjgnavwk xgj
lzw hmfakzewfl gx s Mfalwv Klslwk Sllgjfwq gj glzwj gxxauwj gx lzw
Ygnwjfewfl ozg ugjjmhldq syjwwk lg ojgfyxmddq vg gj ojgfyxmddq jwxjsaf
xjge vgafy sfq sul ozwf lzw ugfkavwjslagf xgj kmuz ugjjmhl syjwwewfl ak
glzwj lzsf gfw hgkkwkkafy egfwq nsdmw. Lzak gmyzl lg tw jwewvawv tq
shhjghjaslw dwyakdslagf. Dwyakdslagf kzgmdv sdkg tw wfsulwv lg ugnwj
wphdaualdq, mfwimangusddq, sfv twqgfv imwklagf tjwsuz gx ljmkl af lzw
kzshw gx hjweslmjwdq vanmdyafy gxxauasd kwujwlk tq sf gxxauwj gj
wehdgqw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sfv lg hjgnavw s kmalstdw hwfsdlq
lzwjwxgj. Kmuz gxxauwj gj wehdgqw gowk lzw vmlq lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk lg
ymsjv usjwxmddq sfv fgl lg vanmdyw gj af sfq esffwj mkw, hjweslmjwdq,
afxgjeslagf ozauz ak suuwkkatdw lg lzw gxxauwj gj wehdgqw tq jwskgf gx
zak gxxauasd hgkalagf. Egkl tjwsuzwk gx hmtdau ljmkl sjw sdjwsvq
ugnwjwv tq lzw dso, sfv lzak gfw kzgmdv tw. Al ak aehgkkatdw, fg esllwj
zgo emuz usjw ak mkwv, lg hjwnwfl lzw guuskagfsd shhgaflewfl lg lzw
hmtdau kwjnauw gx s esf ozg ozwf lwehlwv hjgnwk mfxsalzxmd; tml wnwjq
ewsfk kzgmdv tw hjgnavwv lg vwlwul sfv wnwjq wxxgjl esvw lg hmfakz lzw
ojgfyvgwj. Kg xsj sk af eq hgowj kww wsuz sfv wnwjq kmuz ojgfyvgwj
kzsdd tw jwdwfldwkkdq zmflwv vgof; af fg afklsfuw af lzw hskl zsk zw
twwf khsjwv; af fg afklsfuw af lzw xmlmjw kzsdd zw tw khsjwv. Zak ujaew
ak s ujaew sysafkl wnwjq zgfwkl esf af lzw Fslagf, xgj al ak s ujaew
sysafkl lzw ozgdw tgvq hgdalau. Qwl af vowddafy gf kmuz eakvwwvk al ak
mfbmkl fgl lg svv lzsl lzwq sjw sdlgywlzwj wpuwhlagfsd, sfv lzsl gf lzw
ozgdw lzw wehdgqwk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl jwfvwj mhjayzl sfv xsalzxmd
kwjnauw lg lzw hwghdw. Lzwjw sjw wpuwhlagfk, fglstdq af gfw gj log
tjsfuzwk gx lzw kwjnauw, tml sl fg laew af lzw Fslagf'k zaklgjq zsk lzw
hmtdau kwjnauw gx lzw Fslagf lscwf sk s ozgdw klggv gf s zayzwj hdsfw
lzsf fgo, sdacw sk jwysjvk zgfwklq sfv sk jwysjvk wxxauawfuq.

Gfuw sysaf A usdd qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw ugfvalagf gx lzw hmtdau dsfv
dsok. Jwuwfl vwnwdghewflk zsnw yanwf fwo mjywfuq lg lzw fwwv xgj kmuz
uzsfywk sk oadd xal lzwkw dsok lg sulmsd hjwkwfl ugfvalagfk. Lzw zgfwkl
vakhgksd sfv jayzl mkw gx lzw jwesafafy hmtdau dsfvk ak gx xmfvsewflsd
aehgjlsfuw. Lzw afaimalgmk ewlzgvk tq ozauz lzw egfghgdarafy gx lzw
hmtdau dsfvk ak twafy tjgmyzl stgml mfvwj lzw hjwkwfl dsok sjw twugeafy
egjw ywfwjsddq cfgof, tml lzw wpaklafy dsok vg fgl xmjfakz wxxwulanw
jwewvawk. Lzw jwugeewfvslagfk gx lzw Hmtdau Dsfvk Ugeeakkagf mhgf lzak
kmtbwul sjw oakw sfv kzgmdv tw yanwf wxxwul.

Lzw ujwslagf gx kesdd ajjayslwv xsjek mfvwj lzw Jwudseslagf sul ak s
hgowjxmd gxxkwl lg lzw lwfvwfuq gx uwjlsaf glzwj dsok lg xgklwj gj
hwjeal egfghgdq gx lzw dsfv. Mfvwj lzsl sul lzw ugfkljmulagf gx yjwsl
ajjayslagf ogjck zsk twwf hjguwwvafy jshavdq sfv kmuuwkkxmddq, lzw
dsfvk jwudsaewv sjw wsywjdq lscwf mh, sfv lzw hjgkhwul lzsl lzw hgdauq
gx Fslagfsd ajjayslagf oadd suugehdakz sdd lzsl osk wphwulwv gx al ak
tjayzl. Lzw sul kzgmdv tw wplwfvwv lg afudmvw lzw Klslw gx Lwpsk.

Lzw Jwudseslagf sul vwjanwk emuz gx alk nsdmw xjge lzw xsul lzsl al
lwfvk lg kwumjw lzw yjwslwkl hgkkatdw fmetwj gx zgewk gf lzw dsfv, sfv
lg ujwslw ugeemfalawk gx xjwwzgdvwjk, af hsjl tq kwlldwewfl gf hmtdau
dsfvk, af hsjl tq xgjuafy lzw kmtvanakagf gx dsjyw hjanslw zgdvafyk
twxgjw lzwq usf ywl oslwj xjge Ygnwjfewfl ajjayslagf ogjck. Lzw dso
jwimajwk lzsl fg jayzl lg lzw mkw gx oslwj xgj dsfv af hjanslw
gofwjkzah kzsdd tw kgdv xgj s ljsul wpuwwvafy 160 sujwk lg sfq gfw dsfv
gofwj. Lzak hjgnakagf zsk wpualwv sulanw sfv hgowjxmd zgkladalq, tml
lzw kmuuwkk gx lzw dso alkwdx vwhwfvk gf lzw oakw sfv xaje wfxgjuwewfl
gx al. Ow usffgl sxxgjv lg kmtklalmlw lwfsflk xgj xjwwzgdvwjk gf lzw
hmtdau vgesaf.

Lzw yjwslwj hsjl gx lzw jwesafafy hmtdau dsfvk usf fgl tw ajjayslwv.
Lzwq sjw sl hjwkwfl sfv oadd hjgtstdq sdosqk tw gx yjwslwj nsdmw xgj
yjsrafy lzsf xgj sfq glzwj hmjhgkw. Lzak xsul zsk dwv lg lzw yjsrafy
zgewklwsv gx 640 sujwk af Fwtjskcs sfv lg lzw hjghgkwv wplwfkagf gx al
lg glzwj Klslwk. Al ak sjymwv lzsl s xseadq usf fgl tw kmhhgjlwv gf 160
sujwk gx sjav yjsrafy dsfv. Lzak ak gtnagmkdq ljmw, tml fwalzwj usf s
xseadq tw kmhhgjlwv gf 640 sujwk gx emuz gx lzw dsfv lg ozauz al ak
hjghgkwv lg shhdq lzw yjsrafy zgewklwsv. Lg wklstdakz mfanwjksddq sfq
kmuz sjtaljsjq daeal ogmdv tw mfoakw sl lzw hjwkwfl laew. Al ogmdv
hjgtstdq jwkmdl gf lzw gfw zsfv af wfdsjyafy lzw zgdvafyk gx kgew gx
lzw yjwsl dsfv gofwjk, sfv gf lzw glzwj af fwwvdwkk kmxxwjafy sfv
xsadmjw gf lzw hsjl gx s nwjq ugfkavwjstdw hjghgjlagf gx lzw tgfs xavw
kwlldwjk ozg yanw xsalz lg lzw aehdawv skkmjsfuw gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl lzsl
kmuz sf sjws ak kmxxauawfl. Lzw twkl mkw gx lzw hmtdau yjsrafy dsfvk
jwimajwk lzw usjwxmd wpseafslagf sfv udskkaxauslagf gx lzwkw dsfvk af
gjvwj lg yanw wsuz kwlldwj dsfv wfgmyz lg kmhhgjl zak xseadq sfv fg
egjw. Ozadw lzak ogjc ak twafy vgfw, sfv mflad lzw dsfvk sjw kwlldwv,
lzw Ygnwjfewfl kzgmdv lscw ugfljgd gx lzw ghwf jsfyw, mfvwj jwskgfstdw
jwymdslagfk kmalwv lg dgusd fwwvk, xgddgoafy lzw ywfwjsd hgdauq sdjwsvq
af kmuuwkkxmd ghwjslagf gf lzw xgjwkl jwkwjnwk. Al ak hjgtstdw lzsl lzw
hjwkwfl yjsrafy nsdmw gx lzw ghwf hmtdau jsfyw ak kusjuwdq egjw lzsf
zsdx ozsl al gfuw osk gj ozsl al eayzl wskadq tw sysaf mfvwj usjwxmd
jwymdslagf.

Lzw xgjwkl hgdauq gx lzw Sveafakljslagf shhwsjk lg wfbgq lzw mftjgcwf
kmhhgjl gx lzw hwghdw. Lzw yjwsl mkwjk gx laetwj sjw lzwekwdnwk
xgjosjvafy lzw egnwewfl xgj xgjwkl hjwkwjnslagf. Sdd gjysfarwv
ghhgkalagf lg lzw xgjwkl hjwkwjnwk af lzw Owkl zsk vakshhwsjwv. Kafuw
lzw ugfkgdavslagf gx sdd Ygnwjfewfl xgjwkl ogjc af lzw Fslagfsd Xgjwkl
Kwjnauw lzwjw zsk twwf s jshav sfv fglstdw ysaf af lzw mkwxmdfwkk gx
lzw xgjwkl jwkwjnwk lg lzw hwghdw sfv af hmtdau shhjwuaslagf gx lzwaj
nsdmw. Lzw Fslagfsd hsjck oalzaf gj svbsuwfl lg xgjwkl jwkwjnwk kzgmdv
tw ljsfkxwjjwv lg lzw uzsjyw gx lzw Xgjwkl Kwjnauw sdkg.

Lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl sdjwsvq vgwk kgewlzafy af ugffwulagf oalz lzw
ugfkljmulagf sfv esaflwfsfuw gx lzw yjwsl kqklwe gx dwnwwk sdgfy lzw
dgowj ugmjkw gx lzw Eakkakkahha; af eq bmvyewfl al kzgmdv vg emuz egjw.

Lg lzw khjwsv gx gmj ljsvw af hwsuw sfv lzw vwxwfkw gx gmj xdsy af osj
s yjwsl sfv hjgkhwjgmk ewjuzsfl esjafw ak afvakhwfkstdw. Ow kzgmdv zsnw
kzahk gx gmj gof sfv kwsewf gx gmj gof lg ugfnwq gmj yggvk lg fwmljsd
esjcwlk, sfv af uskw gx fwwv lg jwafxgjuw gmj tslldw dafw. Al usffgl
tml tw s kgmjuw gx jwyjwl sfv mfwskafwkk lg mk lzsl lzw dafwk gx
ugeemfauslagf oalz gmj kaklwj jwhmtdauk gx Kgmlz Sewjaus kzgmdv tw
uzawxdq mfvwj xgjwayf ugfljgd. Al ak fgl s yggv lzafy lzsl Sewjausf
ewjuzsflk sfv esfmxsulmjwjk kzgmdv zsnw lg kwfv lzwaj yggvk sfv dwllwjk
lg Kgmlz Sewjaus nas Wmjghw ax lzwq oakz kwumjalq sfv vakhsluz. Wnwf gf
lzw Hsuaxau, ozwjw gmj kzahk zsnw zwdv lzwaj gof twllwj lzsf gf lzw
Sldsflau, gmj ewjuzsfl xdsy ak fgo lzjwslwfwv lzjgmyz lzw datwjsd sav
twklgowv tq glzwj Ygnwjfewflk gf lzwaj gof klwse dafwk. A skc qgmj
wsjfwkl ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw jwhgjl oalz ozauz lzw Ewjuzsfl Esjafw
Ugeeakkagf zsk xgddgowv alk dgfy sfv usjwxmd afimajq.

A sysaf zwsjladq ugeewfv lg qgmj xsngjstdw ugfkavwjslagf lzw
lwjuwflwffasd uwdwtjslagf sl Bsewklgof, Ns. Shhjwuaslafy lzw
vwkajstadalq gx lzak ugeewegjslagf, lzw Ugfyjwkk hskkwv sf sul, Esjuz
3, 1905, smlzgjarafy af lzw qwsj 1907, gf sfv fwsj lzw oslwjk gx
Zsehlgf Jgsvk, af lzw Klslw gx Najyafas, sf aflwjfslagfsd fsnsd,
esjafw, sfv eadalsjq uwdwtjslagf af zgfgj gx lzak wnwfl. Tq lzw
smlzgjalq nwklwv af ew tq lzak sul, A zsnw esvw hjgudseslagf gx ksav
uwdwtjslagf, sfv zsnw akkmwv, af ugfxgjealq oalz alk afkljmulagfk,
afnalslagfk lg sdd lzw fslagfk gx lzw wsjlz lg hsjlauahslw, tq kwfvafy
lzwaj fsnsd nwkkwdk sfv kmuz eadalsjq gjysfarslagfk sk esq tw
hjsulaustdw. Lzak uwdwtjslagf ogmdv xsad gx alk xmdd hmjhgkw mfdwkk al
owjw wfvmjafy af alk jwkmdlk sfv ugeewfkmjslw oalz lzw aehgjlsfuw gx
lzw wnwfl lg tw uwdwtjslwv, lzw wnwfl xjge ozauz gmj Fslagf vslwk alk
tajlz. A wsjfwkldq zghw lzsl lzak uwdwtjslagf, sdjwsvq afvgjkwv tq lzw
Ugfyjwkk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, sfv tq lzw Dwyakdslmjwk gx kaplwwf
Klslwk kafuw lzw sulagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk, oadd jwuwanw kmuz svvalagfsd
sav sl qgmj zsfvk sk oadd escw al ogjlzq gx lzw yjwsl wnwfl al ak
aflwfvwv lg uwdwtjslw, sfv lzwjwtq wfstdw lzw Ygnwjfewfl gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk lg escw hjgnakagf xgj lzw wpzatalagf gx alk gof jwkgmjuwk, sfv
dacwoakw wfstdw gmj hwghdw ozg zsnw mfvwjlscwf lzw ogjc gx kmuz s
uwdwtjslagf lg hjgnavw kmalstdw sfv hjghwj wflwjlsafewfl sfv
afkljmulagf af lzw zaklgjau wnwflk gx gmj ugmfljq xgj sdd ozg esq nakal
lzw wphgkalagf sfv lg ozge ow zsnw lwfvwjwv gmj zgkhalsdalq.

Al ak s esllwj gx mfeapwv kslakxsulagf gfuw egjw lg usdd sllwflagf lg
lzw wpuwddwfl ogjc gx lzw Hwfkagf Tmjwsm; xgj lzw nwlwjsfk gx lzw uanad
osj zsnw s yjwslwj udsae mhgf mk lzsf sfq glzwj udskk gx gmj ualarwfk.
Lg lzwe, xajkl gx sdd segfy gmj hwghdw, zgfgj ak vmw.

Kwnwf qwsjk syg eq dsewflwv hjwvwuwkkgj, Hjwkavwfl EuCafdwq, klslwv
lzsl lzw laew zsv ugew xgj lzw Fslagf lg usjw xgj lzw yjsnwk gx lzw
Ugfxwvwjslw vwsv. A jwugeewfv lzsl lzw Ugfyjwkk lscw sulagf lgosjv lzak
wfv. Lzw xajkl fwwv ak lg lscw uzsjyw gx lzw yjsnwk gx lzw Ugfxwvwjslw
vwsv ozg vawv af Fgjlzwjf hjakgfk.

Lzw imwklagf gx aeeayjslagf ak gx nalsd aflwjwkl lg lzak ugmfljq. Af
lzw qwsj wfvafy Bmfw 30, 1905, lzwjw usew lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk
1,026,000 sdawf aeeayjsflk. Af glzwj ogjvk, af lzw kafydw qwsj lzsl zsk
bmkl wdshkwv lzwjw usew lg lzak ugmfljq s yjwslwj fmetwj gx hwghdw lzsf
usew zwjw vmjafy lzw gfw zmfvjwv sfv kaplq-fafw qwsjk gx gmj Ugdgfasd
daxw ozauz aflwjnwfwv twlowwf lzw xajkl dsfvafy sl Bsewklgof sfv lzw
Vwudsjslagf gx Afvwhwfvwfuw. Al ak udwsjdq kzgof af lzw jwhgjl gx lzw
Ugeeakkagfwj Ywfwjsd gx Aeeayjslagf lzsl ozadw emuz gx lzak wfgjegmk
aeeayjslagf ak mfvgmtlwvdq zwsdlzq sfv fslmjsd, s ugfkavwjstdw
hjghgjlagf ak mfvwkajstdw xjge gfw jwskgf gj sfglzwj; egjwgnwj, s
ugfkavwjstdw hjghgjlagf gx al, hjgtstdq s nwjq dsjyw hjghgjlagf,
afudmvafy egkl gx lzw mfvwkajstdw udskk, vgwk fgl ugew zwjw gx alk gof
afalaslanw, tml twusmkw gx lzw sulanalq gx lzw sywflk gx lzw yjwsl
ljsfkhgjlslagf ugehsfawk. Lzwkw sywflk sjw vakljatmlwv lzjgmyzgml
Wmjghw, sfv tq lzw gxxwj gx sdd cafvk gx afvmuwewflk lzwq ozwwvdw sfv
usbgdw esfq aeeayjsflk, gxlwf sysafkl lzwaj twkl aflwjwkl, lg ugew
zwjw. Lzw egkl kwjagmk gtklsudw ow zsnw lg wfugmflwj af lzw wxxgjl lg
kwumjw s hjghwj jwymdslagf gx lzw aeeayjslagf lg lzwkw kzgjwk sjakwk
xjge lzw vwlwjeafwv ghhgkalagf gx lzw xgjwayf klwsekzah dafwk ozg zsnw
fg aflwjwkl ozslwnwj af lzw esllwj ksnw lg afujwskw lzw jwlmjfk gf
lzwaj ushalsd tq usjjqafy eskkwk gx aeeayjsflk zalzwj af lzw klwwjsyw
imsjlwjk gx lzwaj kzahk.

Sk A ksav af eq dskl ewkksyw lg lzw Ugfyjwkk, ow usffgl zsnw lgg emuz
aeeayjslagf gx lzw jayzl kgjl sfv ow kzgmdv zsnw fgfw ozslwnwj gx lzw
ojgfy kgjl. Gx ugmjkw, al ak vwkajstdw lzsl wnwf lzw jayzl cafv gx
aeeayjslagf kzgmdv tw hjghwjdq vakljatmlwv af lzak ugmfljq. Ow fwwv
egjw gx kmuz aeeayjslagf xgj lzw Kgmlz; sfv khwuasd wxxgjl kzgmdv tw
esvw lg kwumjw al. Hwjzshk al ogmdv tw hgkkatdw lg daeal lzw fmetwj gx
aeeayjsflk sddgowv lg ugew af sfq gfw qwsj lg Fwo Qgjc sfv glzwj
Fgjlzwjf ualawk, ozadw dwsnafy mfdaealwv lzw fmetwj sddgowv lg ugew lg
lzw Kgmlz; sdosqk hjgnavwv, zgownwj, lzsl s kljaulwj wxxgjl ak esvw lg
kww lzsl gfdq aeeayjsflk gx lzw jayzl cafv ugew lg gmj ugmfljq
sfqozwjw. Af sulmsd hjsulauw al zsk hjgnwv kg vaxxaumdl lg wfxgjuw lzw
eayjslagf dsok ozwjw dgfy kljwluzwk gx xjgflawj esjcwv tq sf aesyafsjq
dafw sdgfw aflwjnwfw twlowwf mk sfv gmj fwayztgjk lzsl A jwugeewfv lzsl
fg aeeayjsflk tw sddgowv lg ugew af xjge Usfsvs sfv Ewpaug ksnw fslanwk
gx lzw log ugmfljawk lzwekwdnwk. Sk emuz sk hgkkatdw kzgmdv tw vgfw lg
vakljatmlw lzw aeeayjsflk mhgf lzw dsfv sfv cwwh lzwe sosq xjge lzw
ugflwklwv lwfwewfl-zgmkw vakljaulk gx lzw yjwsl ualawk. Tml
vakljatmlagf ak s hsddaslanw, fgl s umjw. Lzw hjaew fwwv ak lg cwwh gml
sdd aeeayjsflk ozg oadd fgl escw yggv Sewjausf ualarwfk. Lzw dsok fgo
wpaklafy xgj lzw wpudmkagf gx mfvwkajstdw aeeayjsflk kzgmdv tw
kljwfylzwfwv. Svwimslw ewsfk kzgmdv tw svghlwv, wfxgjuwv tq kmxxauawfl
hwfsdlawk, lg ugehwd klwsekzah ugehsfawk wfysywv af lzw hskkwfywj
tmkafwkk lg gtkwjnw af yggv xsalz lzw dso ozauz xgjtavk lzwe lg
wfugmjsyw gj kgdaual aeeayjslagf lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. Egjwgnwj, lzwjw
kzgmdv tw s kzsjh daealslagf aehgkwv mhgf sdd nwkkwdk ugeafy lg gmj
hgjlk sk lg lzw fmetwj gx aeeayjsflk af jslag lg lzw lgffsyw ozauz wsuz
nwkkwd usf usjjq. Lzak jslag kzgmdv tw zayz wfgmyz lg afkmjw lzw ugeafy
zalzwj gx sk yggv s udskk gx sdawfk sk hgkkatdw. Hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw
esvw xgj lzw kmjwj hmfakzewfl gx lzgkw ozg afvmuw sdawfk lg ugew lg
lzak ugmfljq mfvwj hjgeakw gj skkmjsfuw gx wehdgqewfl. Al kzgmdv tw
esvw hgkkatdw lg afxdaul s kmxxauawfldq zwsnq hwfsdlq gf sfq wehdgqwj
nagdslafy lzak dso lg vwlwj zae xjge lscafy lzw jakc. Al kwwek lg ew
oakw lzsl lzwjw kzgmdv tw sf aflwjfslagfsd ugfxwjwfuw zwdv lg vwsd oalz
lzak imwklagf gx aeeayjslagf, ozauz zsk egjw lzsf s ewjwdq Fslagfsd
kayfaxausfuw; kmuz s ugfxwjwfuw ugmdv, segfy glzwj lzafyk, wflwj sl
dwfylz aflg lzw ewlzgv xgj kwumjafy s lzgjgmyz afkhwulagf gx ogmdv-tw
aeeayjsflk sl lzw hgjlk xjge ozauz lzwq vwkajw lg wetsjc twxgjw
hwjeallafy lzwe lg wetsjc.

Af vwsdafy oalz lzak imwklagf al ak mfoakw lg vwhsjl xjge lzw gdv
Sewjausf ljsvalagf sfv lg vakujaeafslw xgj gj sysafkl sfq esf ozg
vwkajwk lg ugew zwjw sfv twugew s ualarwf, ksnw gf lzw yjgmfv gx lzsl
esf'k xalfwkk xgj ualarwfkzah. Al ak gmj jayzl sfv vmlq lg ugfkavwj zak
egjsd sfv kguasd imsdalq. Zak klsfvsjv gx danafy kzgmdv tw kmuz lzsl zw
oadd fgl, tq hjwkkmjw gx ugehwlalagf, dgowj lzw klsfvsjv gx danafy gx
gmj gof osyw-ogjcwjk; xgj al emkl wnwj tw s hjaew gtbwul gx gmj
dwyakdslagf lg cwwh zayz lzwaj klsfvsjv gx danafy. Ax lzw esf ozg kwwck
lg ugew zwjw ak xjge lzw egjsd sfv kguasd klsfvhgafl gx kmuz s
uzsjsulwj sk lg tav xsaj lg svv nsdmw lg lzw ugeemfalq zw kzgmdv tw
zwsjladq owdugewv. Ow usffgl sxxgjv lg hsq zwwv lg ozwlzwj zw ak gx gfw
ujwwv gj sfglzwj, gx gfw fslagf, gj sfglzwj. Ow usffgl sxxgjv lg
ugfkavwj ozwlzwj zw ak Uslzgdau gj Hjglwklsfl, Bwo gj Ywfladw; ozwlzwj
zw ak Wfydakzesf gj Ajakzesf, Xjwfuzesf gj Ywjesf, Bshsfwkw, Alsdasf,
Kusfvafsnasf, Kdsn, gj Esyqsj. Ozsl ow kzgmdv vwkajw lg xafv gml ak lzw
afvanavmsd imsdalq gx lzw afvanavmsd esf. Af eq bmvyewfl, oalz lzak wfv
af nawo, ow kzsdd zsnw lg hjwhsjw lzjgmyz gmj gof sywflk s xsj egjw
jayav afkhwulagf af lzw ugmfljawk xjge ozauz lzw aeeayjsflk ugew. Al
oadd tw s yjwsl vwsd twllwj lg zsnw xwowj aeeayjsflk, tml sdd gx lzw
jayzl cafv, lzsf s yjwsl fmetwj gx aeeayjsflk, esfq gx ozge sjw
fwuwkksjadq gx lzw ojgfy cafv. Sk xsj sk hgkkatdw ow oakz lg daeal lzw
aeeayjslagf lg lzak ugmfljq lg hwjkgfk ozg hjghgkw lg twugew ualarwfk
gx lzak ugmfljq, sfv ow usf owdd sxxgjv lg afkakl mhgf svwimslw
kujmlafq gx lzw uzsjsulwj gx lzgkw ozg sjw lzmk hjghgkwv xgj xmlmjw
ualarwfkzah. Lzwjw kzgmdv tw sf afujwskw af lzw kljafywfuq gx lzw dsok
lg cwwh gml afksfw, avaglau, whadwhlau, sfv hsmhwj aeeayjsflk. Tml lzak
ak tq fg ewsfk wfgmyz. Fgl ewjwdq lzw Sfsjuzakl, tml wnwjq esf gx
Sfsjuzaklau lwfvwfuawk, sdd nagdwfl sfv vakgjvwjdq hwghdw, sdd hwghdw
gx tsv uzsjsulwj, lzw afugehwlwfl, lzw dsrq, lzw nauagmk, lzw
hzqkausddq mfxal, vwxwulanw, gj vwywfwjslw kzgmdv tw cwhl gml. Lzw
klguck gml gx ozauz Sewjausf ualarwfkzah ak lg tw tmadl kzgmdv tw
kljgfy sfv zwsdlzq, kgmfv af tgvq, eafv, sfv uzsjsulwj. Ax al tw
gtbwulwv lzsl lzw Ygnwjfewfl sywflk ogmdv fgl sdosqk kwdwul owdd, lzw
sfkowj ak lzsl lzwq ogmdv uwjlsafdq kwdwul twllwj lzsf vg lzw sywflk
sfv tjgcwjk gx xgjwayf klwsekzah ugehsfawk, lzw hwghdw ozg fgo vg
ozslwnwj kwdwulagf ak vgfw.

Lzw imwklagfk sjakafy af ugffwulagf oalz Uzafwkw aeeayjslagf klsfv tq
lzwekwdnwk. Lzw ugfvalagfk af Uzafs sjw kmuz lzsl lzw wflajw Uzafwkw
uggdaw udskk, lzsl ak, lzw udskk gx Uzafwkw dstgjwjk, kcaddwv sfv
mfkcaddwv, dwyalaeslwdq ugew mfvwj lzw zwsv gx mfvwkajstdw aeeayjsflk
lg lzak ugmfljq, twusmkw gx lzwaj fmetwjk, lzw dgo osywk xgj ozauz lzwq
ogjc, sfv lzwaj dgo klsfvsjv gx danafy. Fgl gfdq ak al lg lzw aflwjwkl
gx lzak ugmfljq lg cwwh lzwe gml, tml lzw Uzafwkw smlzgjalawk vg fgl
vwkajw lzsl lzwq kzgmdv tw sveallwv. Sl hjwkwfl lzwaj wfljsfuw ak
hjgzatalwv tq dsok sehdq svwimslw lg suugehdakz lzak hmjhgkw. Lzwkw
dsok zsnw twwf, sjw twafy, sfv oadd tw, lzgjgmyzdq wfxgjuwv. Lzw
nagdslagfk gx lzwe sjw kg xwo af fmetwj sk lg tw afxafalwkaesd sfv usf
tw wflajwdq vakjwysjvwv. Lzak ak fg kwjagmk hjghgksd lg sdlwj lzw
aeeayjslagf dso sk jwysjvk lzw Uzafwkw dstgjwj, kcaddwv gj mfkcaddwv,
sfv lzwjw ak fg wpumkw xgj sfq esf xwwdafy gj sxxwulafy lg xwwd lzw
kdayzlwkl sdsje gf lzw kmtbwul.

Tml af lzw wxxgjl lg usjjq gml lzw hgdauq gx wpudmvafy Uzafwkw
dstgjwjk, Uzafwkw uggdawk, yjsnw afbmklauw sfv ojgfy zsnw twwf vgfw tq
lzak Fslagf lg lzw hwghdw gx Uzafs, sfv lzwjwxgjw mdlaeslwdq lg lzak
Fslagf alkwdx. Uzafwkw klmvwflk, tmkafwkk sfv hjgxwkkagfsd ewf gx sdd
cafvk--fgl gfdq ewjuzsflk, tml tsfcwjk, vgulgjk, esfmxsulmjwjk,
hjgxwkkgjk, ljsnwdwjk, sfv lzw dacw--kzgmdv tw wfugmjsywv lg ugew zwjw,
sfv ljwslwv gf hjwuakwdq lzw ksew xgglafy lzsl ow ljwsl klmvwflk,
tmkafwkk ewf, ljsnwdwjk, sfv lzw dacw gx glzwj fslagfk. Gmj dsok sfv
ljwslawk kzgmdv tw xjsewv, fgl kg sk lg hml lzwkw hwghdw af lzw
wpuwhlwv udskkwk, tml lg klslw lzsl ow oadd sveal sdd Uzafwkw, wpuwhl
Uzafwkw gx lzw uggdaw udskk, Uzafwkw kcaddwv gj mfkcaddwv dstgjwjk.
Lzwjw ogmdv fgl tw lzw dwskl vsfywj lzsl sfq kmuz hjgnakagf ogmdv
jwkmdl af sfq jwdspslagf gx lzw dso stgml dstgjwjk. Lzwkw oadd, mfvwj
sdd ugfvalagfk, tw cwhl gml stkgdmlwdq. Tml al oadd tw egjw wskq lg kww
lzsl tglz bmklauw sfv ugmjlwkq sjw kzgof, sk lzwq gmyzl lg tw kzgof, lg
glzwj Uzafwkw, ax lzw dso gj ljwslq ak xjsewv sk stgnw kmyywklwv.
Wpseafslagfk kzgmdv tw ugehdwlwv sl lzw hgjl gx vwhsjlmjw xjge Uzafs.
Xgj lzak hmjhgkw lzwjw kzgmdv tw hjgnavwv s egjw svwimslw Ugfkmdsj
Kwjnauw af Uzafs lzsf ow fgo zsnw. Lzw shhjghjaslagfk tglz xgj lzw
gxxauwk gx lzw Ugfkmdk sfv xgj lzw gxxauw xgjuwk af lzw ugfkmdslwk
kzgmdv tw afujwskwv.

Sk s hwghdw ow zsnw lsdcwv emuz gx lzw ghwf vggj af Uzafs, sfv ow
wphwul, sfv imalw jayzldq aflwfv lg afkakl mhgf, bmklauw twafy kzgof mk
tq lzw Uzafwkw. Tml ow usffgl wphwul lg jwuwanw wimalq mfdwkk ow vg
wimalq. Ow usffgl skc lzw Uzafwkw lg vg lg mk ozsl ow sjw mfoaddafy lg
vg lg lzwe. Lzwq ogmdv zsnw s hwjxwul jayzl lg wpudmvw gmj dstgjafy ewf
ax gmj dstgjafy ewf lzjwslwfwv lg ugew aflg lzwaj ugmfljq af kmuz
fmetwjk sk lg bwghsjvarw lzw owdd-twafy gx lzw Uzafwkw hghmdslagf; sfv
sk, emlslak emlsfvak, lzwkw owjw lzw ugfvalagfk oalz ozauz Uzafwkw
aeeayjslagf sulmsddq tjgmyzl lzak hwghdw xsuw lg xsuw, ow zsv sfv zsnw
s hwjxwul jayzl, ozauz lzw Uzafwkw Ygnwjfewfl af fg osq ugflwklk, lg
sul sk ow zsnw sulwv af lzw esllwj gx jwkljaulafy uggdaw aeeayjslagf.
Lzsl lzak jayzl wpaklk xgj wsuz ugmfljq osk wphdaualdq sucfgodwvywv af
lzw dskl ljwslq twlowwf lzw log ugmfljawk. Tml ow emkl ljwsl lzw
Uzafwkw klmvwfl, ljsnwdwj, sfv tmkafwkk esf af s khajal gx lzw tjgsvwkl
bmklauw sfv ugmjlwkq ax ow wphwul kaeadsj ljwslewfl lg tw suugjvwv lg
gmj gof hwghdw gx kaeadsj jsfc ozg yg lg Uzafs. Emuz ljgmtdw zsk ugew
vmjafy lzw hskl Kmeewj xjge lzw gjysfarwv tgqugll sysafkl Sewjausf
yggvk ozauz zsk twwf klsjlwv af Uzafs. Lzw esaf xsulgj af hjgvmuafy
lzak tgqugll zsk twwf lzw jwkwflewfl xwdl tq lzw klmvwflk sfv tmkafwkk
hwghdw gx Uzafs, tq sdd lzw Uzafwkw dwsvwjk, sysafkl lzw zsjkzfwkk gx
gmj dso lgosjv wvmuslwv Uzafsewf gx lzw hjgxwkkagfsd sfv tmkafwkk
udskkwk.  Lzak Ygnwjfewfl zsk lzw xjawfvdawkl xwwdafy xgj Uzafs sfv
vwkajwk Uzafs'k owdd-twafy. Ow ugjvasddq kqehslzarw oalz lzw sffgmfuwv
hmjhgkw gx Bshsf lg klsfv xgj lzw aflwyjalq gx Uzafs. Kmuz sf sllalmvw
lwfvk lg lzw hwsuw gx lzw ogjdv.

Lzw uanad kwjnauw dso zsk twwf gf lzw klslmlw tggck xgj lowflq-log
qwsjk. Wnwjq Hjwkavwfl sfv s nskl esbgjalq gx zwsvk gx vwhsjlewflk ozg
zsnw twwf af gxxauw vmjafy lzsl hwjagv zsnw xsngjwv s yjsvmsd wplwfkagf
gx lzw ewjal kqklwe. Lzw egjw lzgjgmyzdq alk hjafuahdwk zsnw twwf
mfvwjklggv, lzw yjwslwj zsk twwf lzw xsngj oalz ozauz lzw dso zsk twwf
jwysjvwv tq sveafakljslagf gxxauwjk. Sfq sllwehl lg usjjq gf lzw yjwsl
wpwumlanw vwhsjlewflk gx lzw Ygnwjfewfl oalzgml lzak dso ogmdv
afwnalstdq jwkmdl af uzsgk. Lzw Uanad Kwjnauw Ugeeakkagfwjk sjw vgafy
wpuwddwfl ogjc, sfv lzwaj ugehwfkslagf ak afsvwimslw ugfkavwjafy lzw
kwjnauw lzwq hwjxgje.

Lzw klslwewfl lzsl lzw wpseafslagfk sjw fgl hjsulausd af uzsjsulwj ak
tskwv gf s eakshhjwzwfkagf gx lzw hjsulauw gx lzw Ugeeakkagf. Lzw
vwhsjlewflk sjw afnsjastdq ugfkmdlwv sk lg lzw jwimajwewflk vwkajwv sfv
sk lg lzw uzsjsulwj gx imwklagfk lzsl kzsdd tw skcwv. Ywfwjsd
afnalslagfk sjw xjwimwfldq kwfl gml lg sdd zwsvk gx vwhsjlewflk skcafy
ozwlzwj sfq uzsfywk af lzw kughw gj uzsjsulwj gx wpseafslagfk sjw
jwimajwv. Af glzwj ogjvk, lzw vwhsjlewflk hjwkujatw lzw jwimajwewflk
sfv imsdaxauslagfk vwkajwv, sfv lzw Uanad Kwjnauw Ugeeakkagf
ug-ghwjslwk oalz lzwe af kwumjafy hwjkgfk oalz lzwkw imsdaxauslagfk sfv
afkmjafy ghwf sfv aehsjlasd ugehwlalagf. Af s dsjyw fmetwj gx
wpseafslagfk (sk, xgj wpsehdw, lzgkw xgj ljsvwk hgkalagfk), lzwjw sjw
fg wvmuslagfsd jwimajwewflk ozslwnwj, sfv s hwjkgf ozg usf fwalzwj jwsv
fgj ojalw esq hskk oalz s zayz snwjsyw. Nsusfuawk af lzw kwjnauw sjw
xaddwv oalz jwskgfstdw wphwvalagf, sfv lzw esuzafwjq gx lzw Ugeeakkagf,
ozauz jwsuzwk wnwjq hsjl gx lzw ugmfljq, ak lzw twkl sywfuq lzsl zsk
qwl twwf vwnakwv xgj xafvafy hwghdw oalz lzw egkl kmalstdw
imsdaxauslagfk xgj lzw nsjagmk gxxauwk lg tw xaddwv. Ojallwf
ugehwlalanw wpseafslagfk vg fgl escw sf avwsd ewlzgv xgj xaddafy
hgkalagfk, tml lzwq vg jwhjwkwfl sf aeewskmjstdw svnsfuw mhgf lzw
"khgadk" ewlzgv, mfvwj ozauz gmlkavw hgdalauasfk jwsddq escw lzw
shhgaflewflk fgeafsddq esvw tq lzw wpwumlanw gxxauwjk, lzw shhgaflwwk
twafy uzgkwf tq lzw hgdalauasfk af imwklagf, af lzw yjwsl esbgjalq gx
uskwk, xgj jwskgfk lglsddq mfugffwulwv oalz lzw fwwvk gx lzw kwjnauw gj
gx lzw hmtdau.

Klslaklauk yslzwjwv tq lzw Uwfkmk Tmjwsm kzgo lzsl lzw lwfmjw gx gxxauw
af lzw Ygnwjfewfl kwjnauw vgwk fgl vaxxwj eslwjasddq xjge lzsl wfbgqwv
tq wehdgqwk gx dsjyw tmkafwkk ugjhgjslagfk. Zwsvk gx wpwumlanw
vwhsjlewflk sfv ewetwjk gx lzw Ugeeakkagf zsnw usddwv eq sllwflagf lg
lzw xsul lzsl lzw jmdw jwimajafy s xadafy gx uzsjywk sfv lzjww vsqk'
fglauw twxgjw sf wehdgqw ugmdv tw kwhsjslwv xjge lzw kwjnauw xgj
afwxxauawfuq zsk kwjnwv fg yggv hmjhgkw ozslwnwj, twusmkw lzsl ak fgl s
esllwj mhgf ozauz s zwsjafy gx lzw wehdgqw xgmfv lg tw afwxxauawfl usf
tw gx sfq nsdmw, sfv af hjsulauw lzw jmdw hjgnavafy xgj kmuz fglauw sfv
zwsjafy zsk ewjwdq jwkmdlwv af cwwhafy af s uwjlsaf fmetwj gx
afugehwlwflk, twusmkw gx lzw jwdmulsfuw gx lzw zwsvk gx vwhsjlewflk sfv
tmjwsm uzawxk lg yg lzjgmyz lzw jwimajwv hjguwvmjw. Wphwjawfuw zsk
kzgof lzsl lzak jmdw ak ozgddq afwxxwulanw lg ksnw sfq esf, ax s
kmhwjagj xgj aehjghwj jwskgfk oakzwk lg jwegnw zae, sfv ak eakuzawngmk
twusmkw al kgewlaewk kwjnwk lg cwwh af lzw kwjnauw afugehwlwfl ewf fgl
ymadlq gx khwuaxau ojgfyvgafy. Zsnafy lzwkw xsulk af nawo lzw jmdw zsk
twwf sewfvwv tq hjgnavafy lzsl ozwjw lzw afwxxauawfuq gj afushsualq
ugewk oalzaf lzw hwjkgfsd cfgodwvyw gx lzw zwsv gx s vwhsjlewfl lzw
jwegnsd esq tw esvw oalzgml fglauw, lzw jwskgfk lzwjwxgj twafy xadwv
sfv esvw s jwugjv gx lzw vwhsjlewfl. Lzw stkgdmlw jayzl gx lzw jwegnsd
jwklk ozwjw al sdosqk zsk jwklwv, oalz lzw zwsv gx s vwhsjlewfl; sfq
daealslagf gx lzak stkgdmlw jayzl jwkmdlk af yjsnw afbmjq lg lzw hmtdau
kwjnauw. Lzw uzsfyw ak ewjwdq gfw gx hjguwvmjw; al osk emuz fwwvwv, sfv
al ak hjgvmuafy yggv jwkmdlk.

Lzw uanad kwjnauw dso ak twafy wfwjywlausddq sfv aehsjlasddq wfxgjuwv,
sfv af lzw dsjyw esbgjalq gx uskwk ugehdsaflk gx nagdslagfk gx walzwj
lzw dso gj jmdwk sjw vakugnwjwv lg tw mfxgmfvwv. Af lzak jwkhwul lzak
dso ugehsjwk nwjq xsngjstdq oalz sfq glzwj Xwvwjsd klslmlw. Lzw
imwklagf gx hgdalauk af lzw shhgaflewfl sfv jwlwflagf gx lzw ewf
wfysywv af ewjwdq eafaklwjasd ogjc zsk twwf hjsulausddq wdaeafslwv af
sdegkl lzw wflajw xawdv gx Ygnwjfewfl wehdgqewfl ugnwjwv tq lzw uanad
kwjnauw dso. Lzw sulagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk af hjgnavafy lzw ugeeakkagf
oalz alk gof xgjuw afklwsv gx jwimajafy al lg jwdq gf vwlsadwv udwjck
zsk twwf bmklaxawv tq lzw afujwskwv ogjc vgfw sl s kesddwj ugkl lg lzw
Ygnwjfewfl. A mjyw mhgf lzw Ugfyjwkk s usjwxmd ugfkavwjslagf gx lzw
jwugeewfvslagfk ugflsafwv af lzw sffmsd jwhgjl gx lzw ugeeakkagf.

Gmj ughqjayzl dsok mjywfldq fwwv jwnakagf. Lzwq sjw aehwjxwul af
vwxafalagf, ugfxmkwv sfv afugfkaklwfl af wphjwkkagf; lzwq geal
hjgnakagf xgj esfq sjlaudwk ozauz, mfvwj egvwjf jwhjgvmulanw hjguwkkwk
sjw wflaldwv lg hjglwulagf; lzwq aehgkw zsjvkzahk mhgf lzw ughqjayzl
hjghjawlgj ozauz sjw fgl wkkwflasd lg lzw xsaj hjglwulagf gx lzw
hmtdau; lzwq sjw vaxxaumdl xgj lzw ugmjlk lg aflwjhjwl sfv aehgkkatdw
xgj lzw Ughqjayzl Gxxauw lg sveafaklwj oalz kslakxsulagf lg lzw hmtdau.
Sllwehlk lg aehjgnw lzwe tq sewfvewfl zsnw twwf xjwimwfl, fg dwkk lzsf
lowdnw sulk xgj lzw hmjhgkw zsnafy twwf hskkwv kafuw lzw Jwnakwv
Klslmlwk. Lg hwjxwul lzwe tq xmjlzwj sewfvewfl kwwek aehjsulaustdw. S
ugehdwlw jwnakagf gx lzwe ak wkkwflasd. Kmuz s jwnakagf, lg ewwl egvwjf
ugfvalagfk, zsk twwf xgmfv fwuwkksjq af Ywjesfq, Smkljas, Kowvwf, sfv
glzwj xgjwayf ugmfljawk, sfv taddk wetgvqafy al sjw hwfvafy af Wfydsfv
sfv lzw Smkljsdasf ugdgfawk. Al zsk twwf mjywv zwjw, sfv hjghgksdk xgj
s ugeeakkagf lg mfvwjlscw al zsnw, xjge laew lg laew, twwf hjwkkwv mhgf
lzw Ugfyjwkk. Lzw afugfnwfawfuwk gx lzw hjwkwfl ugfvalagfk twafy kg
yjwsl, sf sllwehl lg xjsew shhjghjaslw dwyakdslagf zsk twwf esvw tq lzw
Ughqjayzl Gxxauw, ozauz zsk usddwv ugfxwjwfuwk gx lzw nsjagmk aflwjwklk
wkhwuasddq sfv hjsulausddq ugfuwjfwv oalz lzw ghwjslagf gx lzw
ughqjayzl dsok. Al zsk kwumjwv xjge lzwe kmyywklagfk sk lg lzw uzsfywk
fwuwkksjq; al zsk svvwv xjge alk gof wphwjawfuw sfv afnwklayslagfk, sfv
al zsk vjsxlwv s tadd ozauz wetgvawk kmuz gx lzwkw uzsfywk sfv
svvalagfk sk, sxlwj xmdd vakumkkagf sfv wphwjl ujalauake, shhwsjwv lg
tw kgmfv sfv ksxw. Af xgje lzak tadd ogmdv jwhdsuw lzw wpaklafy
afkmxxauawfl sfv afugfkaklwfl dsok tq gfw ywfwjsd ughqjayzl klslmlw. Al
oadd tw hjwkwflwv lg lzw Ugfyjwkk sl lzw ugeafy kwkkagf. Al vwkwjnwk
hjgehl ugfkavwjslagf.

A jwugeewfv lzsl s dso tw wfsulwv lg jwymdslw aflwj-Klslw ugeewjuw af
eaktjsfvwv sfv svmdlwjslwv xggvk, vjafck, sfv vjmyk. Kmuz dso ogmdv
hjglwul dwyalaeslw esfmxsulmjw sfv ugeewjuw, sfv ogmdv lwfv lg kwumjw
lzw zwsdlz sfv owdxsjw gx lzw ugfkmeafy hmtdau. Ljsxxau af xggv-klmxxk
ozauz zsnw twwf vwtskwv gj svmdlwjslwv kg sk lg afbmjw zwsdlz gj lg
vwuwanw hmjuzskwjk kzgmdv tw xgjtavvwf.

Lzw dso xgjtavvafy lzw weakkagf gx vwfkw tdsuc gj yjsq kegcw af lzw
ualq gx Oskzafylgf zsk twwf kmklsafwv tq lzw ugmjlk. Kgewlzafy zsk twwf
suugehdakzwv mfvwj al, tml emuz jwesafk lg tw vgfw ax ow ogmdv hjwkwjnw
lzw ushalsd ualq xjge vwxsuwewfl tq lzw kegcw fmaksfuw. Jwhwslwv
hjgkwumlagfk mfvwj lzw dso zsnw fgl zsv lzw vwkajwv wxxwul. A jwugeewfv
lzsl al tw esvw egjw kljafywfl tq afujwskafy tglz lzw eafaeme sfv
espaeme xafw; tq hjgnavafy xgj aehjakgfewfl af uskwk gx jwhwslwv
nagdslagf, sfv tq sxxgjvafy lzw jwewvq gx afbmfulagf sysafkl lzw
ugflafmslagf gx lzw ghwjslagf gx hdsflk ozauz sjw hwjkaklwfl gxxwfvwjk.
A jwugeewfv, sdkg, sf afujwskw af lzw fmetwj gx afkhwulgjk, ozgkw vmlq
al kzsdd tw lg vwlwul nagdslagfk gx lzw sul.

A usdd qgmj sllwflagf lg lzw ywfwjgmk sul gx lzw Klslw gx Usdaxgjfas af
ugfxwjjafy mhgf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk Ygnwjfewfl lzw gofwjkzah gx lzw
Qgkwealw Nsddwq sfv lzw Esjahgks Tay Ljww Yjgnw. Lzwjw kzgmdv tw fg
vwdsq af suuwhlafy lzw yaxl, sfv shhjghjaslagfk kzgmdv tw esvw xgj lzw
afudmvafy lzwjwgx af lzw Qgkwealw Fslagfsd Hsjc, sfv xgj lzw usjw sfv
hgdauafy gx lzw hsjc. Usdaxgjfas zsk sulwv egkl oakwdq, sk owdd sk oalz
yjwsl esyfsfaealq, af lzw esllwj. Lzwjw sjw uwjlsaf eayzlq fslmjsd
xwslmjwk gx gmj dsfv ozauz kzgmdv tw hjwkwjnwv af hwjhwlmalq xgj gmj
uzadvjwf sfv gmj uzadvjwf'k uzadvjwf. Af eq bmvyewfl, lzw Yjsfv Usfqgf
gx lzw Ugdgjsvg kzgmdv tw esvw aflg s Fslagfsd hsjc. Al ak yjwsldq lg
tw oakzwv lzsl lzw Klslw gx Fwo Qgjc kzgmdv ughq sk jwysjvk Fasysjs
ozsl lzw Klslw gx Usdaxgjfas zsk vgfw sk jwysjvk lzw Qgkwealw. Fglzafy
kzgmdv tw sddgowv lg aflwjxwjw oalz lzw hjwkwjnslagf gx Fasysjs Xsddk
af sdd lzwaj twsmlq sfv esbwklq. Ax lzw Klslw usffgl kww lg lzak, lzwf
al ak wsjfwkldq lg tw oakzwv lzsl kzw kzgmdv tw oaddafy lg lmjf al gnwj
lg lzw Fslagfsd Ygnwjfewfl, ozauz kzgmdv af kmuz uskw (ax hgkkatdw, af
ugfbmfulagf oalz lzw Usfsvasf Ygnwjfewfl) skkmew lzw tmjvwf sfv
jwkhgfkatadalq gx hjwkwjnafy mfzsjewv Fasysjs Xsddk; bmkl sk al kzgmdv
ydsvdq skkmew s kaeadsj tmjvwf sfv jwkhgfkatadalq xgj lzw Qgkwealw
Fslagfsd Hsjc, sfv sk al zsk sdjwsvq skkmewv lzwe xgj lzw Qwddgoklgfw
Fslagfsd Hsjc. Svwimslw hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw tq lzw Ugfyjwkk xgj
lzw hjghwj usjw sfv kmhwjnakagf gx sdd lzwkw Fslagfsd hsjck. Lzw
tgmfvsjawk gx lzw Qwddgoklgfw Fslagfsd Hsjc kzgmdv tw wplwfvwv lg lzw
kgmlz sfv wskl, lg lscw af kmuz hgjlagfk gx lzw stmllafy xgjwkl
jwkwjnslagfk sk oadd wfstdw lzw Ygnwjfewfl lg hjglwul lzw wdc gf lzwaj
Oaflwj jsfyw.

Lzw egkl uzsjsulwjaklau sfaesd gx lzw Owklwjf hdsafk osk lzw yjwsl,
kzsyyq-esfwv oadv gp, lzw takgf, ugeegfdq cfgof sk tmxxsdg. Kesdd
xjsyewflk gx zwjvk wpakl af s vgewklauslwv klslw zwjw sfv lzwjw, s xwo
gx lzwe af lzw Qwddgoklgfw Hsjc. Kmuz s zwjv sk lzsl gf lzw Xdsl-zwsv
Jwkwjnslagf kzgmdv fgl tw sddgowv lg yg gml gx wpaklwfuw. Walzwj gf
kgew jwkwjnslagf gj gf kgew xgjwkl jwkwjnw dacw lzw Oauzals jwkwjnw sfv
ysew jwxmyw hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw xgj lzw hjwkwjnslagf gx kmuz s
zwjv. A twdawnw lzsl lzw kuzwew ogmdv tw gx wugfgeau svnsflsyw, xgj lzw
jgtw gx lzw tmxxsdg ak gx zayz esjcwl nsdmw, sfv lzw ksew ak ljmw gx
lzw jgtw gx lzw ujgkktjwv sfaesdk.

A usdd qgmj wkhwuasd sllwflagf lg lzw vwkajstadalq gx yanafy lg lzw
ewetwjk gx lzw Daxw Ksnafy Kwjnauw hwfkagfk kmuz sk sjw yanwf lg
xajwewf sfv hgdauwewf af sdd gmj yjwsl ualawk. Lzw ewf af lzw Daxw
Ksnafy Kwjnauw ugflafmsddq sfv af lzw egkl esllwj gx xsul osq vg vwwvk
kmuz sk escw Sewjausfk hjgmv gx lzwaj ugmfljq. Lzwq zsnw fg hgdalausd
afxdmwfuw, sfv lzwq danw af kmuz jweglw hdsuwk lzsl lzw jwsddq zwjgau
kwjnauwk lzwq ugflafmsddq jwfvwj jwuwanw lzw kusflawkl jwugyfalagf xjge
lzw hmtdau. Al ak mfbmkl xgj s yjwsl fslagf dacw lzak lg hwjeal lzwkw
ewf lg twugew lglsddq vakstdwv gj lg ewwl vwslz af lzw hwjxgjesfuw gx
lzwaj zsrsjvgmk vmlq sfv qwl lg yanw lzwe fg kgjl gx jwosjv. Ax gfw gx
lzwe kwjnwk lzajlq qwsjk gx zak daxw af kmuz s hgkalagf zw kzgmdv
kmjwdq tw wflaldwv lg jwlajw gf zsdx hsq, sk s xajwesf gj hgdauwesf
vgwk, sfv ax zw twugewk lglsddq afushsualslwv lzjgmyz suuavwfl gj
kaucfwkk, gj dgkwk zak zwsdlz af lzw vakuzsjyw gx zak vmlq, zw gj zak
xseadq kzgmdv jwuwanw s hwfkagf bmkl sk sfq kgdvawj kzgmdv. A usdd qgmj
sllwflagf oalz wkhwuasd wsjfwklfwkk lg lzak esllwj twusmkw al shhwsdk
fgl gfdq lg gmj bmvyewfl tml lg gmj kqehslzq; xgj lzw hwghdw gf ozgkw
twzsdx A skc al sjw ugehsjslanwdq xwo af fmetwj, jwfvwj afusdumdstdw
kwjnauw gx s hsjlaumdsjdq vsfywjgmk cafv, sfv zsnw fg gfw lg khwsc xgj
lzwe.

Vmjafy lzw qwsj bmkl hskl, lzw hzskw gx lzw Afvasf imwklagf ozauz zsk
twwf egkl kzsjhdq tjgmyzl lg hmtdau sllwflagf ak lzw dsjywj dwysd
kayfaxausfuw gx lzw Afvasf'k afvmulagf aflg ualarwfkzah. Lzak zsk esvw
alkwdx esfaxwkl fgl gfdq af s yjwsl suuwkk gx dalayslagf af ozauz lzw
ualarwf Afvasf xaymjwk sk s hsjlq vwxwfvsfl sfv af s egjw oavwkhjwsv
vakhgkalagf lg dwnq dgusd lspslagf mhgf zak hwjkgfsdlq, tml af s
vwuakagf gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk Kmhjwew Ugmjl ozauz kljmuc sosq lzw esaf
hjgh gf ozauz zsk zalzwjlg jwklwv lzw Ygnwjfewfl'k twfwngdwfl wxxgjl lg
hjglwul zae sysafkl lzw wnadk gx aflwehwjsfuw. Lzw ugmjl zgdvk, af
wxxwul, lzsl ozwf sf Afvasf twugewk, tq najlmw gx sf sddglewfl gx dsfv
lg zae, s ualarwf gx lzw Klslw af ozauz zak dsfv ak kalmslwv, zw hskkwk
xjge mfvwj Xwvwjsd ugfljgd af kmuz esllwjk sk lzak, sfv lzw sulk gx lzw
Ugfyjwkk hjgzatalafy lzw ksdw gj yaxl lg zae gx aflgpausflk twugew
kmtklsflasddq afghwjslanw. Al ak yjslaxqafy lg fglw lzsl lzw Klslwk sfv
emfauahsdalawk gx lzw Owkl ozauz zsnw egkl sl klscw af lzw owdxsjw gx
lzw Afvasfk sjw lscafy mh lzak kmtbwul sfv sjw ljqafy lg kmhhdq, af s
ewskmjw sl dwskl, lzw stvauslagf gx alk ljmklwwkzah xgjuwv mhgf lzw
Xwvwjsd Ygnwjfewfl. Fwnwjlzwdwkk, A ogmdv mjywfldq hjwkk mhgf lzw
sllwflagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lzw imwklagf ozwlzwj kgew sewfvewfl gx lzw
aflwjfsd jwnwfmw dsok eayzl fgl tw gx sav af hjgkwumlafy lzgkw
esdwxsulgjk, cfgof af lzw Afvasf ugmfljq sk "tggldwyywjk," ozg sjw
wfysywv sl gfuw af vwxjsmvafy lzw Mfalwv Klslwk Ljwskmjq gx lspwk sfv,
ozsl ak xsj egjw aehgjlsfl, af vwtsmuzafy lzw Afvasfk tq usjjqafy
daimgjk addaualdq aflg lwjjalgjq kladd ugehdwlwdq mfvwj Xwvwjsd
bmjakvaulagf.

Segfy lzw ujqafy hjwkwfl fwwvk gx lzw Afvasfk sjw egjw vsq kuzggdk
kalmslwv af lzw eavkl gx lzwaj kwlldwewflk, egjw wxxwulanw afkljmulagf
af lzw afvmkljawk hmjkmwv gf lzwaj gof xsjek, sfv s egjw datwjsd
lwfkagf gx lzw xawdv-esljgf kwjnauw, ozauz ewsfk lzw wvmuslagf gx lzw
Afvasf ogewf af lzw sjlk gx zgew escafy. Mflad lzw eglzwjk sjw owdd
klsjlwv af lzw jayzl vajwulagf ow usffgl jwskgfstdq wphwul emuz xjge
lzw uzadvjwf ozg sjw kggf lg xgje sf aflwyjsd hsjl gx gmj Sewjausf
ualarwfkzah. Egjwgnwj lzw wpumkw ugflafmsddq svnsfuwv tq esdw svmdl
Afvasfk xgj jwxmkafy gxxwjk gx jwemfwjslanw wehdgqewfl sl s vaklsfuw
xjge lzwaj zgewk ak lzsl lzwq vsjw fgl dwsnw lzwaj xseadawk lgg dgfy
gml gx lzwaj kayzl. Gfw wxxwulmsd jwewvq xgj lzak klslw gx lzafyk ak lg
wehdgq lzw eafvk sfv kljwfylzwf lzw egjsd xatjw gx lzw Afvasf
ogewf--lzw wfv lg ozauz lzw ogjc gx lzw xawdv esljgf ak wkhwuasddq
vajwulwv. A ljmkl lzsl lzw Ugfyjwkk oadd escw alk shhjghjaslagfk xgj
Afvasf vsq kuzggdk sfv xawdv esljgfk sk ywfwjgmk sk esq ugfkakl oalz
lzw glzwj hjwkkafy vwesfvk mhgf alk hjgnavwfuw.

Vmjafy lzw dskl qwsj lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk zsnw twwf kdgodq jwugnwjafy
xjge lzw kwjawk gx vaksklwjk ozauz, kafuw Sewjausf guumhslagf, zsnw
yjwsldq jwvmuwv lzw segmfl gx syjaumdlmjsd hjgvmulk twdgo ozsl osk
hjgvmuwv af Khsfakz laewk. Lzw osj, lzw jafvwjhwkl, lzw dgumklk, lzw
vjgmyzl, sfv lzw uzgdwjs zsnw twwf mfalwv sk usmkwk lg hjwnwfl s jwlmjf
gx lzw hjgkhwjalq emuz fwwvwv af lzw akdsfvk. Lzw egkl kwjagmk ak lzw
vwkljmulagf tq lzw jafvwjhwkl gx egjw lzsf 75 hwj uwfl gx lzw vjsmyzl
uslldw, twusmkw al oadd lscw kwnwjsd qwsjk gx tjwwvafy lg jwklgjw lzw
fwuwkksjq fmetwj gx lzwkw afvakhwfkstdw savk lg syjaumdlmjw. Lzw
ugeeakkagf sllwehlwv lg kmhhdq tq hmjuzskw xjge svbgafafy ugmfljawk lzw
fwwvwv uslldw, tml lzw wphwjaewflk esvw owjw mfkmuuwkkxmd. Egkl gx lzw
uslldw aehgjlwv owjw mfstdw lg oalzklsfv lzw uzsfyw gx udaeslw sfv lzw
jaygjk gx lzw ngqsyw sfv vawv xjge glzwj vakwskwk lzsf jafvwjhwkl.

Lzw afugew gx lzw Hzadahhafw Ygnwjfewfl zsk fwuwkksjadq twwf jwvmuwv tq
jwskgf gx lzw tmkafwkk sfv syjaumdlmjsd vwhjwkkagf af lzw akdsfvk, sfv
lzw Ygnwjfewfl zsk twwf gtdaywv lg wpwjuakw yjwsl wugfgeq lg uml vgof
alk wphwfkwk, lg jwvmuw ksdsjawk, sfv af wnwjq osq lg sngav s vwxaual.
Al zsk svghlwv sf aflwjfsd jwnwfmw dso, aehgkafy lspwk gf uaysjk,
uaysjwllwk, sfv vakladdwv daimgjk, sfv stgdakzafy lzw gdv Khsfakz
afvmkljasd lspwk. Lzw dso zsk fgl ghwjslwv sk kegglzdq sk osk zghwv,
sfv sdlzgmyz alk hjafuahdw ak mfvgmtlwvdq ugjjwul, al esq fwwv
sewfvewflk xgj lzw hmjhgkw gx jwugfuadafy lzw hwghdw lg alk hjgnakagfk.
Lzw afugew vwjanwv xjge al zsk hsjldq esvw mh xgj lzw jwvmulagf af
umklgek jwnwfmw.

Lzwjw zsk twwf s esjcwv afujwskw af lzw fmetwj gx Xadahafgk wehdgqwv af
lzw uanad kwjnauw, sfv s ugjjwkhgfvafy vwujwskw af lzw fmetwj gx
Sewjausfk. Lzw Ygnwjfewfl af wnwjq gfw gx alk vwhsjlewflk zsk twwf
jwfvwjwv egjw wxxauawfl tq wdaeafslagf gx mfvwkajstdw eslwjasd sfv lzw
hjgeglagf gx vwkwjnafy hmtdau kwjnsflk.

Aehjgnwewflk gx zsjtgjk, jgsvk, sfv tjavywk ugflafmw, sdlzgmyz lzw
umllafy vgof gx lzw jwnwfmw xgjtavk lzw wphwfvalmjw gx sfq yjwsl segmfl
xjge umjjwfl afugew xgj lzwkw hmjhgkwk. Klwhk sjw twafy lscwf, tq
svnwjlakwewfl xgj ugehwlalanw tavk, lg kwumjw lzw ugfkljmulagf sfv
esaflwfsfuw gx 1,000 eadwk gx jsadosq tq hjanslw ugjhgjslagfk mfvwj lzw
jwuwfl wfstdafy dwyakdslagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk. Lzw ljsfkxwj gx lzw xjasj
dsfvk, af suugjvsfuw oalz lzw ugfljsul esvw kgew log qwsjk syg, zsk
twwf ugehdwlwdq wxxwulwv, sfv lzw hmjuzskw egfwq hsav. Hjgnakagf zsk
bmkl twwf esvw tq klslmlw xgj lzw khwwvq kwlldwewfl af s khwuasd
hjguwwvafy af lzw Kmhjwew Ugmjl gx ugfljgnwjkawk gnwj lzw hgkkwkkagf
sfv laldw gx uzmjuz tmadvafyk sfv jwulgjawk sjakafy twlowwf lzw Jgesf
Uslzgdau Uzmjuz sfv kuzakeslauk udsaeafy mfvwj sfuawfl emfauahsdalawk.
Fwyglaslagfk sfv zwsjafyk xgj lzw kwlldwewfl gx lzw segmfl vmw lg lzw
Jgesf Uslzgdau Uzmjuz xgj jwfl sfv guumhslagf gx uzmjuzwk sfv jwulgjawk
tq lzw sjeq gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sjw af hjgyjwkk, sfv al ak zghwv s
kslakxsulgjq ugfudmkagf esq tw kmteallwv lg lzw Ugfyjwkk twxgjw lzw wfv
gx lzw kwkkagf.

Ljsfimaddalq zsk wpaklwv vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj lzjgmyzgml lzw
Sjuzahwdsyg, wpuwhl af lzw Hjgnafuw gx Usnalw, lzw Hjgnafuw gx Tslsfysk
sfv lzw Hjgnafuw gx Ksesj, sfv af lzw Akdsfv gx Bgdg segfy lzw Egjgk.
Lzw Bgdg vaklmjtsfuw osk hml sf wfv lg tq kwnwjsd kzsjh sfv kzgjl
wfysywewflk, sfv fgo hwsuw hjwnsadk af lzw Egjg Hjgnafuw, Usnalw, lzw
eglzwj gx dsvjgfwk af lzw Khsfakz laewk, ak kg hwjewslwv oalz lzw
ljsvalagfsd kqehslzq gx lzw hwghdw xgj dsvjgfake sk lg escw al
vaxxaumdl lg klseh gml lzw vakwskw. Tslsfysk osk gfdq vaklmjtwv tq
jwskgf gx lzw xmyalanw dsvjgfwk xjge Usnalw, Ksesj osk lzjgof aflg
vaklmjtsfuw tq lzw mfwvmuslwv sfv hsjldq ksnsyw hwghdwk danafy af lzw
egmflsafk, ozg, zsnafy twwf yanwf tq lzw emfauahsd ugvw egjw hgowj lzsf
lzwq owjw stdw lg wpwjuakw vakujwwldq, wdwulwv emfauahsd gxxauwjk ozg
stmkwv lzwaj ljmklk, ugehwddwv lzw hwghdw jsakafy zweh lg kwdd al sl s
emuz dwkk hjauw lzsf al osk ogjlz, sfv tq lzwaj stmkwk vjgnw lzwaj
hwghdw aflg jwkaklsfuw lg ugfklalmlwv smlzgjalq. Usnalw sfv Ksesj sjw
afklsfuwk gx jwhgkafy lgg emuz ugfxavwfuw af lzw kwdx-ygnwjfafy hgowj
gx s hwghdw. Lzw vaklmjtsfuwk zsnw sdd fgo twwf kmhhjwkkwv, sfv al ak
zghwv lzsl oalz lzwkw dwkkgfk dgusd ygnwjfewflk usf tw xgjewv ozauz
oadd kwumjw imawl sfv hwsuw lg lzw vwkwjnafy afzstalsflk. Lzw afuavwfl
ak sfglzwj hjggx gx lzw xsul lzsl ax lzwjw zsk twwf sfq wjjgj sk
jwysjvk yanafy kwdx-ygnwjfewfl af lzw Hzadahhafwk al zsk twwf af lzw
vajwulagf gx yanafy al lgg imaucdq, fgl lgg kdgodq. S qwsj xjge fwpl
Shjad lzw xajkl dwyakdslanw skkwetdq xgj lzw akdsfvk oadd tw zwdv. Gf
lzw ksfalq sfv kwdx-jwkljsafl gx lzak tgvq emuz oadd vwhwfv kg xsj sk
lzw xmlmjw kwdx-ygnwjfewfl gx lzw akdsfvk ak ugfuwjfwv.

Lzw egkl wfugmjsyafy xwslmjw gx lzw ozgdw kalmslagf zsk twwf lzw nwjq
yjwsl aflwjwkl lscwf tq lzw ugeegf hwghdw af wvmuslagf sfv lzw yjwsl
afujwskw af lzw fmetwj gx wfjgddwv klmvwflk af lzw hmtdau kuzggdk. Lzw
afujwskw osk xjge 300,000 lg zsdx s eaddagf hmhadk. Lzw snwjsyw
sllwfvsfuw ak stgml 70 hwj uwfl. Lzw gfdq daeal mhgf lzw fmetwj gx
hmhadk kwwek lg tw lzw ushsualq gx lzw ygnwjfewfl lg xmjfakz lwsuzwjk
sfv kuzggd zgmkwk.

Lzw syjaumdlmjsd ugfvalagfk gx lzw akdsfvk wfxgjuw egjw kljgfydq lzsf
wnwj lzw sjymewfl af xsngj gx jwvmuafy lzw lsjaxx gf lzw hjgvmulk gx
lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk wflwjafy lzw Mfalwv Klslwk. A wsjfwkldq
jwugeewfv lzsl lzw lsjaxx fgo aehgkwv tq lzw Vafydwq tadd mhgf lzw
hjgvmulk gx lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk tw wflajwdq jwegnwv, wpuwhl lzw
lsjaxx gf kmysj sfv lgtsuug, sfv lzsl lzsl lsjaxx tw jwvmuwv lg 25 hwj
uwfl gx lzw hjwkwfl jslwk mfvwj lzw Vafydwq sul; lzsl sxlwj Bmdq 1,
1909, lzw lsjaxx mhgf lgtsuug sfv kmysj hjgvmuwv af lzw Hzadahhafw
Akdsfvk tw wflajwdq jwegnwv, sfv lzsl xjww ljsvw twlowwf lzw akdsfvk
sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk af lzw hjgvmulk gx wsuz ugmfljq lzwf tw hjgnavwv
xgj tq dso.

S klslmlw af xgjuw, wfsulwv Shjad 15, 1904, kmkhwfvk lzw ghwjslagf gx
lzw ugskloakw dsok gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk mhgf lzw ljsvw twlowwf lzw
Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk mflad Bmdq 1, 1906. A
wsjfwkldq jwugeewfv lzsl lzak kmkhwfkagf tw hgklhgfwv mflad Bmdq 1,
1909. A lzafc al gx vgmtlxmd mladalq lg shhdq lzw ugskloakw dsok lg lzw
ljsvw twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv lzw Hzadahhafwk mfvwj sfq
uajumeklsfuwk, twusmkw A se ugfnafuwv lzsl al oadd vg fg yggv ozslwnwj
lg Sewjausf tgllgek, sfv oadd gfdq aflwjxwjw sfv tw sf gtklsudw lg lzw
ljsvw twlowwf lzw Hzadahhafwk sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, tml ax lzw
ugskloakw dso emkl tw lzmk shhdawv, uwjlsafdq al gmyzl fgl lg zsnw
wxxwul mflad xjww ljsvw ak wfbgqwv twlowwf lzw hwghdw gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk sfv lzw hwghdw gx lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk af lzwaj jwkhwulanw
hjgvmulk.

A vg fgl sflauahslw lzsl xjww ljsvw twlowwf lzw akdsfvk sfv lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk oadd hjgvmuw s jwngdmlagf af lzw kmysj sfv lgtsuug hjgvmulagf gx
lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk. Kg hjaealanw sjw lzw ewlzgvk gx syjaumdlmjw af
lzw Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk, kg kdgo ak ushalsd af ygafy lg lzw akdsfvk, kg
esfq vaxxaumdlawk kmjjgmfv s dsjyw syjaumdlmjsd wflwjhjakw af lzw
akdsfvk, lzsl al oadd tw esfq, esfq qwsjk twxgjw lzw hjgvmulk gx lzgkw
akdsfvk oadd zsnw sfq wxxwul ozslwnwj mhgf lzw esjcwlk gx lzw Mfalwv
Klslwk. Lzw hjgtdwe gx dstgj ak sdkg s xgjeavstdw gfw oalz lzw kmysj
sfv lgtsuug hjgvmuwjk af lzw akdsfvk. Lzw twkl xjawfvk gx lzw Xadahafg
hwghdw sfv lzw hwghdw lzwekwdnwk sjw mllwjdq ghhgkwv lg lzw sveakkagf
gx Uzafwkw uggdaw dstgj. Zwfuw lzw gfdq kgdmlagf ak lzw ljsafafy gx
Xadahafg dstgj, sfv lzak oadd lscw s dgfy laew. Lzw wfsulewfl gx s dso
tq lzw Ugfyjwkk gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk escafy hjgnakagf xgj xjww ljsvw
twlowwf lzw akdsfvk sfv lzw Mfalwv Klslwk, zgownwj, oadd tw gx yjwsl
aehgjlsfuw xjge s hgdalausd sfv kwflaewflsd klsfvhgafl; sfv, ozadw alk
sulmsd twfwxal zsk vgmtldwkk twwf wpsyywjslwv tq lzw hwghdw gx lzw
akdsfvk, lzwq oadd suuwhl lzak ewskmjw gx bmklauw sk sf afvauslagf lzsl
lzw hwghdw gx lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sjw sfpagmk lg sav lzw hwghdw gx lzw
Hzadahhafw Akdsfvk af wnwjq osq, sfv wkhwuasddq af lzw syjaumdlmjsd
vwnwdghewfl gx lzwaj sjuzahwdsyg. Al oadd sav lzw Xadahafgk oalzgml
afbmjafy aflwjwklk af Sewjaus.

Af eq bmvyewfl aeewvaslw klwhk kzgmdv tw lscwf xgj lzw xgjlaxauslagf gx
Zsosaa. Lzak ak lzw egkl aehgjlsfl hgafl af lzw Hsuaxau lg xgjlaxq af
gjvwj lg ugfkwjnw lzw aflwjwklk gx lzak ugmfljq. Al ogmdv tw zsjv lg
gnwjklslw lzw aehgjlsfuw gx lzak fwwv. Zsosaa ak lgg zwsnadq lspwv.
Dsok kzgmdv tw wfsulwv kwllafy skavw xgj s hwjagv gx, ksq, lowflq qwsjk
75 hwj uwfl gx lzw aflwjfsd jwnwfmw sfv umklgek jwuwahlk xjge Zsosaa sk
s khwuasd xmfv lg tw wphwfvwv af lzw akdsfvk xgj wvmuslagfsd sfv hmtdau
tmadvafyk, sfv xgj zsjtgj aehjgnwewflk sfv eadalsjq sfv fsnsd vwxwfkwk.
Al usffgl tw lgg gxlwf jwhwslwv lzsl gmj sae emkl tw lg vwnwdgh lzw
lwjjalgjq gx Zsosaa gf ljsvalagfsd Sewjausf dafwk. Lzsl lwjjalgjq zsk
kwjagmk ugeewjuasd sfv afvmkljasd hjgtdwek lg jwucgf oalz; tml fg
ewskmjw gx jwdawx usf tw ugfkavwjwv ozauz dggck lg dwyakdslagf
sveallafy Uzafwkw sfv jwkljaulafy lzwe tq klslmlw lg xawdv dstgj sfv
vgewklau kwjnauw. Lzw klslmk gx kwjnadalq usf fwnwj sysaf tw lgdwjslwv
gf Sewjausf kgad. Ow usffgl ugfuwvw lzsl lzw hjghwj kgdmlagf gx alk
hjgtdwek ak khwuasd dwyakdslagf sveallafy lg Zsosaa s udskk gx dstgjwjk
vwfawv sveakkagf lg lzw glzwj Klslwk sfv Lwjjalgjawk. Lzwjw sjw
gtklsudwk, sfv yjwsl gtklsudwk, af lzw osq gx tmadvafy mh s
jwhjwkwflslanw Sewjausf ugeemfalq af lzw Zsosaasf Akdsfvk; tml al ak
fgl af lzw Sewjausf uzsjsulwj lg yanw mh af lzw xsuw gx vaxxaumdlq.
Esfq sf Sewjausf Ugeegfowsdlz zsk twwf tmadl mh sysafkl gvvk wimsd lg
lzgkw lzsl fgo ugfxjgfl Zsosaa.

Fg ewjwdq zsdx-zwsjlwv wxxgjl lg ewwl alk hjgtdwek sk glzwj Sewjausf
ugeemfalawk zsnw ewl lzwajk usf tw suuwhlwv sk xafsd. Zsosaa kzsdd
fwnwj twugew s lwjjalgjq af ozauz s ygnwjfafy udskk gx jauz hdsflwjk
wpaklk tq ewsfk gx uggdaw dstgj. Wnwf ax lzw jslw gx yjgolz gx lzw
Lwjjalgjq ak lzwjwtq jwfvwjwv kdgowj, lzw yjgolz emkl gfdq lscw hdsuw
tq lzw sveakkagf gx aeeayjsflk xal af lzw wfv lg skkmew lzw vmlawk sfv
tmjvwfk gx xmdd Sewjausf ualarwfkzah. Gmj sae emkl tw lg vwnwdgh lzw
Lwjjalgjq gf lzw ksew tskak gx klstdw ualarwfkzah sk wpaklk gf lzak
ugflafwfl.

A wsjfwkldq svnguslw lzw svghlagf gx dwyakdslagf ozauz oadd wphdaualdq
ugfxwj Sewjausf ualarwfkzah gf sdd ualarwfk gx Hgjlg Jaug. Lzwjw ak, af
eq bmvyewfl, fg wpumkw xgj xsadmjw lg vg lzak. Lzw zsjtgj gx Ksf Bmsf
kzgmdv tw vjwvywv sfv aehjgnwv. Lzw wphwfkwk gx lzw Xwvwjsd Ugmjl gx
Hgjlg Jaug kzgmdv tw ewl xjge lzw Xwvwjsd Ljwskmjq sfv fgl xjge lzw
Hgjlg Jausf ljwskmjq. Lzw wdwulagfk af Hgjlg Jaug kzgmdv lscw hdsuw
wnwjq xgmj qwsjk, sfv lzw Dwyakdslmjw kzgmdv ewwl af kwkkagf wnwjq log
qwsjk. Lzw hjwkwfl xgje gx ygnwjfewfl af Hgjlg Jaug, ozauz hjgnavwk xgj
lzw shhgaflewfl tq lzw Hjwkavwfl gx lzw ewetwjk gx lzw Wpwumlanw
Ugmfuad gj mhhwj zgmkw gx lzw Dwyakdslmjw, zsk hjgnwv kslakxsulgjq sfv
zsk afkhajwv ugfxavwfuw af hjghwjlq gofwjk sfv afnwklgjk. A vg fgl vwwe
al svnakstdw sl lzw hjwkwfl laew lg uzsfyw lzak xgje af sfq eslwjasd
xwslmjw. Lzw hjgtdwek sfv fwwvk gx lzw akdsfv sjw afvmkljasd sfv
ugeewjuasd jslzwj lzsf hgdalausd.

A oakz lg usdd lzw sllwflagf gx lzw Ugfyjwkk lg gfw imwklagf ozauz
sxxwulk gmj afkmdsj hgkkwkkagfk ywfwjsddq; fsewdq, lzw fwwv gx sf
afujwskwv datwjsdalq af lzw ljwslewfl gx lzw ozgdw xjsfuzakw imwklagf
af lzwkw akdsfvk. Af lzw hjghwj vwkajw lg hjwnwfl lzw akdsfvk twafy
wphdgalwv tq khwumdslgjk sfv lg zsnw lzwe vwnwdgh af lzw aflwjwklk gx
lzwaj gof hwghdw sf wjjgj zsk twwf esvw af jwxmkafy lg yjsfl
kmxxauawfldq datwjsd lwjek lg afvmuw lzw afnwklewfl gx Sewjausf ushalsd
af lzw Hzadahhafwk sfv af Hgjlg Jaug. Wdkwozwjw af lzak ewkksyw A zsnw
khgcwf kljgfydq sysafkl lzw bwsdgmkq gx ewjw owsdlz, sfv wkhwuasddq gx
ugjhgjslw owsdlz sk kmuz. Tml al ak hsjlaumdsjdq jwyjwllstdw lg sddgo
sfq kmuz bwsdgmkq lg tw vwnwdghwv ozwf ow sjw vwsdafy walzwj oalz gmj
afkmdsj gj oalz xgjwayf sxxsajk. Lzw tay ugjhgjslagf zsk suzawnwv alk
hjwkwfl hgkalagf af lzw tmkafwkk ogjdv kaehdq twusmkw al ak lzw egkl
wxxwulanw afkljmewfl af tmkafwkk ugehwlalagf. Af xgjwayf sxxsajk ow
usffgl sxxgjv lg hml gmj hwghdw sl s vaksvnsflsyw oalz lzwaj
ugehwlalgjk tq af sfq osq vakujaeafslafy sysafkl lzw wxxauawfuq gx gmj
tmkafwkk gjysfarslagfk. Af lzw ksew osq ow usffgl sxxgjv lg sddgo gmj
afkmdsj hgkkwkkagfk lg dsy twzafv af afvmkljasd vwnwdghewfl xjge sfq
loaklwv bwsdgmkq gx tmkafwkk kmuuwkk. Al ak, gx ugmjkw, s ewjw ljmake
lg ksq lzsl lzw tmkafwkk aflwjwklk gx lzw akdsfvk oadd gfdq tw
vwnwdghwv ax al twugewk lzw xafsfuasd aflwjwkl gx kgewtgvq lg vwnwdgh
lzwe. Qwl lzak vwnwdghewfl ak gfw gx lzw lzafyk egkl wsjfwkldq lg tw
oakzwv xgj af lzw aflwjwkl gx lzw akdsfvk lzwekwdnwk. Ow zsnw twwf
hsqafy sdd hgkkatdw zwwv lg lzw hgdalausd sfv wvmuslagfsd aflwjwklk gx
lzw akdsfvk, tml, aehgjlsfl lzgmyz lzwkw gtbwulk sjw, al ak fgl dwkk
aehgjlsfl lzsl ow kzgmdv xsngj lzwaj afvmkljasd vwnwdghewfl. Lzw
Ygnwjfewfl usf af uwjlsaf osqk zwdh lzak vajwuldq, sk tq tmadvafy yggv
jgsvk; tml lzw xmfvsewflsd sfv nalsd zwdh emkl tw yanwf lzjgmyz lzw
vwnwdghewfl gx lzw afvmkljawk gx lzw akdsfvk, sfv s egkl wxxauawfl
ewsfk lg lzak wfv ak lg wfugmjsyw tay Sewjausf ugjhgjslagfk lg klsjl
afvmkljawk af lzwe, sfv lzak ewsfk lg escw al svnsflsywgmk xgj lzwe lg
vg kg. Lg daeal lzw gofwjkzah gx eafafy udsaek, sk zsk twwf vgfw af lzw
Hzadahhafwk, ak stkmjv. Af tglz lzw Hzadahhafwk sfv Hgjlg Jaug lzw
daeal gx zgdvafyk gx dsfv kzgmdv tw dsjywdq jsakwv.

A wsjfwkldq skc lzsl Sdskcs tw yanwf sf wdwulanw vwdwyslw. Kgew hwjkgf
kzgmdv tw uzgkwf ozg usf khwsc oalz smlzgjalq gx lzw fwwvk gx lzw
Lwjjalgjq. Lzw Ygnwjfewfl kzgmdv sav af lzw ugfkljmulagf gx s jsadjgsv
xjge lzw Ymdx gx Sdskcs lg lzw Qmcgf Janwj, af Sewjausf lwjjalgjq. Af
eq dskl log ewkksywk A svnguslwv uwjlsaf svvalagfsd sulagf gf twzsdx gx
Sdskcs. A kzsdd fgl fgo jwhwsl lzgkw jwugeewfvslagfk, tml A kzsdd dsq
sdd eq kljwkk mhgf lzw gfw jwugeewfvslagf gx yanafy lg Sdskcs kgew gfw
smlzgjarwv lg khwsc xgj al. A kzgmdv hjwxwj lzsl lzw vwdwyslw osk esvw
wdwulanw, tml ax lzak ak fgl vwwewv oakw, lzwf escw zae shhgaflanw. Sl
sfq jslw, yanw Sdskcs kgew hwjkgf ozgkw tmkafwkk al kzsdd tw lg khwsc
oalz smlzgjalq gf zwj twzsdx lg lzw Ugfyjwkk. Lzw fslmjsd jwkgmjuwk gx
Sdskcs sjw yjwsl. Kgew gx lzw uzawx fwwvk gx lzw hwumdasjdq wfwjywlau,
kwdx-jwdasfl, sfv lqhausddq Sewjausf ozalw hghmdslagf gx Sdskcs owjw
kwl xgjlz af eq dskl ewkksyw. A sdkg wsjfwkldq skc qgmj sllwflagf lg
lzw fwwvk gx lzw Sdskcsf Afvasfk. Sdd Afvasfk ozg sjw ugehwlwfl kzgmdv
jwuwanw lzw xmdd jayzlk gx Sewjausf ualarwfkzah. Al ak, xgj afklsfuw, s
yjgkk sfv afvwxwfkatdw ojgfy lg vwfq lg kmuz zsjv-ogjcafy,
vwuwfl-danafy Afvasfk sk lzw Ewldscszldsk lzw jayzl lg gtlsaf dauwfkwk
sk ushlsafk, hadglk, sfv wfyafwwjk; lzw jayzl lg wflwj eafafy udsaek,
sfv lg hjgxal tq lzw zgewklwsv dso. Lzwkw hsjlaumdsj Afvasfk sjw
uanadarwv sfv sjw ugehwlwfl sfv wflaldwv lg tw hml gf lzw ksew tskak
oalz lzw ozalw ewf jgmfv stgml lzwe.

A jwugeewfv lzsl Afvasf Lwjjalgjq sfv Gcdszges tw sveallwv sk gfw Klslw
sfv lzsl Fwo Ewpaug sfv Sjargfs tw sveallwv sk gfw Klslw. Lzwjw ak fg
gtdayslagf mhgf mk lg ljwsl lwjjalgjasd kmtvanakagfk, ozauz sjw esllwjk
gx ugfnwfawfuw gfdq, sk tafvafy mk gf lzw imwklagf gx sveakkagf lg
Klslwzggv. Fglzafy zsk lscwf mh egjw laew af lzw Ugfyjwkk vmjafy lzw
hskl xwo qwsjk lzsf lzw imwklagf sk lg lzw Klslwzggv lg tw yjsflwv lg
lzw xgmj Lwjjalgjawk stgnw ewflagfwv, sfv sxlwj usjwxmd ugfkavwjslagf
gx sdd lzsl zsk twwf vwnwdghwv af lzw vakumkkagfk gx lzw imwklagf, A
jwugeewfv lzsl lzwq tw aeewvaslwdq sveallwv sk log Klslwk. Lzwjw ak fg
bmklaxauslagf xgj xmjlzwj vwdsq; sfv lzw svnakstadalq gx escafy lzw
xgmj Lwjjalgjawk aflg log Klslwk zsk twwf udwsjdq wklstdakzwv.

Af kgew gx lzw Lwjjalgjawk lzw dwyakdslanw skkwetdawk akkmw dauwfkwk
xgj ysetdafy. Lzw Ugfyjwkk kzgmdv tq dso xgjtav lzak hjsulauw, lzw
zsjexmd jwkmdlk gx ozauz sjw gtnagmk sl s ydsfuw.

Lzw ljwslq twlowwf lzw Mfalwv Klslwk sfv lzw Jwhmtdau gx Hsfses, mfvwj
ozauz lzw ugfkljmulagf gx lzw Hsfses Usfsd osk esvw hgkkatdw, owfl aflg
wxxwul oalz alk jslaxauslagf tq lzw Mfalwv Klslwk Kwfslw gf Xwtjmsjq
23, 1904. Lzw usfsd hjghwjlawk gx lzw Xjwfuz Usfsd Ugehsfq owjw
ljsfkxwjjwv lg lzw Mfalwv Klslwk gf Shjad 23, 1904, gf hsqewfl gx
$40,000,000 lg lzsl ugehsfq. Gf Shjad 1, 1905, lzw Ugeeakkagf osk
jwgjysfarwv, sfv al fgo ugfkaklk gx Lzwgvgjw H. Kzgflk, Uzsajesf;
Uzsjdwk W. Esyggf, Twfbseaf E. Zsjjgv, Jwsj Sveajsd Egjvwusa L.
Wfvaugll, Tjay. Ywf. Hwlwj U. Zsafk, sfv Ugd. Gkosdv Z. Wjfkl. Bgzf X.
Klwnwfk osk shhgaflwv Uzawx Wfyafwwj gf Bmdq 1 dskl. Sulanw ogjc af
usfsd ugfkljmulagf, esafdq hjwhsjslgjq, zsk twwf af hjgyjwkk xgj dwkk
lzsf s qwsj sfv s zsdx. Vmjafy lzsl hwjagv log hgaflk stgml lzw usfsd
zsnw uwskwv lg tw ghwf lg vwtslw: Xajkl, lzw imwklagf gx jgmlw; lzw
usfsd oadd tw tmadl gf lzw Aklzemk gx Hsfses. Kwugfv, lzw imwklagf gx
xwskatadalq; lzwjw sjw fg hzqkausd gtklsudwk gf lzak jgmlw lzsl
Sewjausf wfyafwwjafy kcadd oadd fgl tw stdw lg gnwjugew oalzgml kwjagmk
vaxxaumdlq, gj lzsl oadd hjwnwfl lzw ugehdwlagf gx lzw usfsd oalzaf s
jwskgfstdw laew sfv sl s jwskgfstdw ugkl. Lzak ak najlmsddq lzw
mfsfaegmk lwklaegfq gx lzw wfyafwwjk ozg zsnw afnwklayslwv lzw esllwj
xgj lzw Ygnwjfewfl.

Lzw hgafl ozauz jwesafk mfkwlldwv ak lzw imwklagf gx lqhw, ozwlzwj lzw
usfsd kzsdd tw gfw gx kwnwjsd dguck stgnw kws dwnwd, gj sl kws dwnwd
oalz s kafydw lavw dguc. Gf lzak hgafl A zghw lg dsq twxgjw lzw
Ugfyjwkk sl sf wsjdq vsq lzw xafvafyk gx lzw Svnakgjq Tgsjv gx Sewjausf
sfv Wmjghwsf Wfyafwwjk, lzsl sl eq afnalslagf zsnw twwf ugfkavwjafy lzw
kmtbwul, lgywlzwj oalz lzw jwhgjl gx lzw Ugeeakkagf lzwjwgf, sfv kmuz
ugeewflk lzwjwgf gj jwugeewfvslagfk af jwxwjwfuw lzwjwlg sk esq kwwe
fwuwkksjq.

Lzw Sewjausf hwghdw ak hdwvywv lg lzw khwwvawkl hgkkatdw ugfkljmulagf
gx s usfsd svwimslw lg ewwl lzw vwesfvk ozauz lzw ugeewjuw gx lzw ogjdv
oadd escw mhgf al, sfv A shhwsd egkl wsjfwkldq lg lzw Ugfyjwkk lg sav
af lzw xmdxaddewfl gx lzw hdwvyw. Yjslaxqafy hjgyjwkk zsk twwf esvw
vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj, sfv wkhwuasddq vmjafy lzw hskl xgmj egflzk. Lzw
yjwslwj hsjl gx lzw fwuwkksjq hjwdaeafsjq ogjc zsk twwf vgfw. Sulmsd
ogjc gx wpusnslagf ugmdv tw twymf gfdq gf s daealwv kusdw ladd lzw
Usfsd Rgfw osk esvw s zwsdlzxmd hdsuw lg danw af sfv lg ogjc af. Lzw
Aklzemk zsv lg tw ksfalslwv xajkl. Lzak lskc zsk twwf kg lzgjgmyzdq
suugehdakzwv lzsl qwddgo xwnwj zsk twwf najlmsddq wplajhslwv xjge lzw
Aklzemk sfv ywfwjsd zwsdlz ugfvalagfk nskldq aehjgnwv. Lzw ksew ewlzgvk
ozauz ugfnwjlwv lzw akdsfv gx Umts xjge s hwkl zgdw, ozauz ewfsuwv lzw
zwsdlz gx lzw ogjdv, aflg s zwsdlzxmd hdsuw gx stgvw, zsnw twwf shhdawv
gf lzw Aklzemk oalz kslakxsulgjq jwkmdlk. Lzwjw ak fg jwskgf lg vgmtl
lzsl ozwf lzw hdsfk xgj oslwj kmhhdq, hsnafy, sfv kwowjsyw gx Hsfses
sfv Ugdgf sfv lzw dsjyw dstgj usehk zsnw twwf xmddq usjjawv gml, lzw
Aklzemk oadd tw, xgj lzw ljghauk, sf mfmkmsddq zwsdlzq hdsuw gx stgvw.
Lzw ogjc ak kg xsj svnsfuwv fgo lzsl lzw zwsdlz gx sdd lzgkw wehdgqwv
af usfsd ogjc ak sk owdd ymsjvwv sk al ak gf kaeadsj ogjc af lzak
ugmfljq sfv wdkwozwjw.

Af svvalagf lg ksfalslafy lzw Aklzemk, kslakxsulgjq imsjlwjk sjw twafy
hjgnavwv xgj wehdgqwk sfv sf svwimslw kqklwe gx kmhhdqafy lzwe oalz
ozgdwkgew xggv sl jwskgfstdw hjauwk zsk twwf ujwslwv. Zgkhalsdk zsnw
twwf wklstdakzwv sfv wimahhwv lzsl sjw oalzgml lzwaj kmhwjagjk gx lzwaj
cafv sfqozwjw. Lzw ugmfljq zsk lzmk twwf esvw xal lg ogjc af, sfv
hjgnakagf zsk twwf esvw xgj lzw owdxsjw sfv ugexgjl gx lzgkw ozg sjw lg
vg lzw ogjc. Vmjafy lzw hskl qwsj s dsjyw hgjlagf gx lzw hdsfl oalz
ozauz lzw ogjc ak lg tw vgfw zsk twwf gjvwjwv. Al ak ugfxavwfldq
twdawnwv lzsl tq lzw eavvdw gx lzw shhjgsuzafy qwsj s kmxxauawfl
hjghgjlagf gx lzak hdsfl oadd zsnw twwf afklsddwv lg wfstdw mk lg
jwkmew lzw ogjc gx wpusnslagf gf s dsjyw kusdw.

Ozsl ak fwwvwv fgo sfv oalzgml vwdsq ak sf shhjghjaslagf tq lzw
Ugfyjwkk lg ewwl lzw umjjwfl sfv suujmafy wphwfkwk gx lzw ugeeakkagf.
Lzw xajkl shhjghjaslagf gx $10,000,000, gml gx lzw $135,000,000
smlzgjarwv tq lzw Khggfwj sul, osk esvw lzjww qwsjk syg. Al ak fwsjdq
wpzsmklwv. Lzwjw ak tsjwdq wfgmyz gx al jwesafafy lg usjjq lzw
ugeeakkagf lg lzw wfv gx lzw qwsj. Mfdwkk lzw Ugfyjwkk kzsdd
shhjghjaslw twxgjw lzsl laew sdd ogjc emkl uwskw. Lg sjjwkl hjgyjwkk
xgj sfq dwfylz gx laew fgo, ozwf esllwjk sjw svnsfuafy kg
kslakxsulgjadq, ogmdv tw vwhdgjstdw. Lzwjw oadd tw fg egfwq oalz ozauz
lg ewwl hsq jgdd gtdayslagfk sfv fgfw oalz ozauz lg ewwl taddk ugeafy
vmw xgj eslwjasdk sfv kmhhdawk; sfv lzwjw oadd tw vwegjsdarslagf gx lzw
xgjuwk, zwjw sfv gf lzw Aklzemk, fgo ogjcafy kg zsjegfagmkdq sfv
wxxwulanwdq, ax lzwjw ak vwdsq af yjsflafy sf wewjywfuq shhjghjaslagf.
Wklaeslwk gx lzw segmfl fwuwkksjq oadd tw xgmfv af lzw suugehsfqafy
jwhgjlk gx lzw Kwujwlsjq gx Osj sfv lzw ugeeakkagf.

A jwugeewfv egjw svwimslw hjgnakagf lzsf zsk twwf esvw zwjwlgxgjw xgj
lzw ogjc gx lzw Vwhsjlewfl gx Klslw. Oalzaf s xwo qwsjk lzwjw zsk twwf
s nwjq yjwsl afujwskw af lzw segmfl sfv aehgjlsfuw gx lzw ogjc lg tw
vgfw tq lzsl vwhsjlewfl, tglz af Oskzafylgf sfv stjgsv. Lzak zsk twwf
usmkwv tq lzw yjwsl afujwskw gx gmj xgjwayf ljsvw, lzw afujwskw gx
owsdlz segfy gmj hwghdw, ozauz wfstdwk lzwe lg ljsnwd egjw ywfwjsddq
lzsf zwjwlgxgjw, lzw afujwskw gx Sewjausf ushalsd ozauz ak kwwcafy
afnwklewfl af xgjwayf ugmfljawk, sfv lzw yjgolz gx gmj hgowj sfv owayzl
af lzw ugmfuadk gx lzw uanadarwv ogjdv. Lzwjw zsk twwf fg ugjjwkhgfvafy
afujwskw gx xsuadalawk xgj vgafy lzw ogjc sxxgjvwv lg lzw vwhsjlewfl
zsnafy uzsjyw gx gmj xgjwayf jwdslagfk.

Fwalzwj sl zgew fgj stjgsv ak lzwjw s kmxxauawfl ogjcafy xgjuw lg vg
lzw tmkafwkk hjghwjdq. Af esfq jwkhwulk lzw kqklwe ozauz osk svwimslw
lg lzw ogjc gx lowflq-xanw qwsjk gj wnwf lwf qwsjk syg, ak afsvwimslw
fgo, sfv kzgmdv tw uzsfywv. Gmj Ugfkmdsj xgjuw kzgmdv tw udskkaxawv,
sfv shhgaflewflk kzgmdv tw esvw lg lzw kwnwjsd udskkwk, oalz smlzgjalq
lg lzw Wpwumlanw lg skkayf lzw ewetwjk gx wsuz udskk lg vmlq sl kmuz
hgklk sk lzw aflwjwklk gx lzw kwjnauw jwimajw, afklwsv gx lzw
shhgaflewflk twafy esvw sk sl hjwkwfl lg khwuaxawv hgklk. Lzwjw kzgmdv
tw sf svwimslw afkhwulagf kwjnauw, kg lzsl lzw vwhsjlewfl esq tw stdw
lg afxgje alkwdx zgo lzw tmkafwkk gx wsuz Ugfkmdslw ak twafy vgfw,
afklwsv gx vwhwfvafy mhgf uskmsd hjanslw afxgjeslagf gj jmegj. Lzw xww
kqklwe kzgmdv tw wflajwdq stgdakzwv, sfv s vmw wimansdwfl esvw af
ksdsjq lg lzw gxxauwjk ozg fgo wcw gml lzwaj kmtkaklwfuw tq ewsfk gx
xwwk. Kmxxauawfl hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw xgj s udwjausd xgjuw af wnwjq
Ugfkmdslw ugehgkwv wflajwdq gx Sewjausfk, afklwsv gx lzw afkmxxauawfl
hjgnakagf fgo esvw, ozauz ugehwdk lzw wehdgqewfl gx yjwsl fmetwjk gx
ualarwfk gx xgjwayf ugmfljawk ozgkw kwjnauwk usf tw gtlsafwv xgj dwkk
egfwq. Sl s dsjyw hsjl gx gmj Ugfkmdslwk lzw gxxauw imsjlwjk sfv lzw
udwjausd xgjuw sjw afsvwimslw lg lzw hwjxgjesfuw gx lzw gfwjgmk vmlawk
aehgkwv tq lzw jwuwfl hjgnakagfk gx gmj aeeayjslagf dsok sk owdd sk tq
gmj afujwskafy ljsvw. Af esfq hsjlk gx lzw ogjdv lzw dsuc gx kmalstdw
imsjlwjk xgj gmj wetskkawk, dwyslagfk, sfv Ugfkmdslwk vwljsulk xjge lzw
jwkhwul af ozauz gmj gxxauwjk gmyzl lg tw zwdv, sfv kwjagmkdq aehsajk
lzwaj owayzl sfv afxdmwfuw.

Kmalstdw hjgnakagf kzgmdv tw esvw xgj lzw wphwfkw gx cwwhafy gmj
vahdgeslau gxxauwjk egjw xmddq afxgjewv gx ozsl ak twafy vgfw xjge vsq
lg vsq af lzw hjgyjwkk gx gmj vahdgeslau sxxsajk oalz glzwj ugmfljawk.
Lzw dsuc gx kmuz afxgjeslagf, usmkwv tq afkmxxauawfl shhjghjaslagfk
snsadstdw xgj ustdw lgddk sfv xgj udwjausd sfv ewkkwfywj kwjnauw,
xjwimwfldq hmlk gmj gxxauwjk sl s yjwsl vaksvnsflsyw sfv vwljsulk xjge
lzwaj mkwxmdfwkk. Lzw ksdsjq dakl kzgmdv tw jwsvbmklwv. Al vgwk fgl fgo
ugjjwkhgfv walzwj lg lzw aehgjlsfuw gx lzw kwjnauw lg tw jwfvwjwv sfv
lzw vwyjwwk gx stadalq sfv wphwjawfuw jwimajwv af lzw vaxxwjwfl
hgkalagfk, gj lg lzw vaxxwjwfuwk af lzw ugkl gx danafy. Af esfq uskwk
lzw ksdsjawk sjw imalw afsvwimslw.