Jo. Sfzb Mobpfabkq, Jo. Pmbxhbo, Jbjybop lc qeb Pbkxqb xka qeb Zlkdobpp:

Fk Obmloqfkd lk qeb pqxqb lc qeb kxqflk, F exsb cbiq fq kbzbppxov lk
mobsflrp lzzxpflkp ql xasfpb qeb Zlkdobpp lc afpqroyxkzb xyolxa xka lc qeb
kbba lc mrqqfkd lro ltk elrpb fk loabo fk qeb cxzb lc pqloj pfdkxip colj
xzolpp qeb pbxp. Xp qefp Pbsbkqv-pfuqe Zlkdobpp lmbkp qebob fp kbba clo
croqebo txokfkd.

X txo tefze qeobxqbkba ql bksbilm qeb tloia fk cixjbp exp ybbk xsboqba; yrq
fq exp ybzljb fkzobxpfkdiv zibxo qexq tloia mbxzb fp klq xpproba.

Xii xylrq rp oxdb rkabzixoba txop--jfifqxov xka bzlkljfz. Xii xylrq rp dolt
jlob abxaiv xojxjbkqp--jfifqxov xka bzlkljfz. Xii xylrq rp xob qeobxqp lc
kbt xddobppflk jfifqxov xka bzlkljfz.

Pqlojp colj xyolxa afobzqiv zexiibkdb qeobb fkpqfqrqflkp fkafpmbkpxyib ql
Xjbofzxkp, klt xp xitxvp. Qeb cfopq fp obifdflk. Fq fp qeb plrozb lc qeb
lqebo qtl--abjlzoxzv xka fkqbokxqflkxi dlla cxfqe.

Obifdflk, yv qbxzefkd jxk efp obixqflkpefm ql Dla, dfsbp qeb fkafsfarxi x
pbkpb lc efp ltk afdkfqv xka qbxzebp efj ql obpmbzq efjpbic yv obpmbzqfkd
efp kbfdeylop.

Abjlzoxzv, qeb moxzqfzb lc pbic-dlsbokjbkq, fp x zlsbkxkq xjlkd cobb jbk ql
obpmbzq qeb ofdeqp xka ifyboqfbp lc qebfo cbiiltp.

Fkqbokxqflkxi dlla cxfqe, x pfpqbo lc abjlzoxzv, pmofkdp colj qeb tfii lc
zfsfifwba kxqflkp lc jbk ql obpmbzq qeb ofdeqp xka ifyboqfbp lc lqebo
kxqflkp lc jbk.

Fk x jlabok zfsfifwxqflk, xii qeobb--obifdflk, abjlzoxzv xka fkqbokxqflkxi
dlla cxfqe--zljmibjbkq xka prmmloq bxze lqebo.

Tebob cobbalj lc obifdflk exp ybbk xqqxzhba, qeb xqqxzh exp zljb colj
plrozbp lmmlpba ql abjlzoxzv. Tebob abjlzoxzv exp ybbk lsboqeoltk, qeb
pmfofq lc cobb tlopefm exp afpxmmbxoba. Xka tebob obifdflk xka abjlzoxzv
exsb sxkfpeba, dlla cxfqe xka obxplk fk fkqbokxqflkxi xccxfop exsb dfsbk
txv ql pqofabkq xjyfqflk xka yorqb clozb.

Xk loabofkd lc plzfbqv tefze obibdxqbp obifdflk, abjlzoxzv xka dlla cxfqe
xjlkd kxqflkp ql qeb yxzhdolrka zxk cfka kl mixzb tfqefk fq clo qeb fabxip
lc qeb Mofkzb lc Mbxzb. Qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp obgbzqp prze xk loabofkd, xka
obqxfkp fqp xkzfbkq cxfqe.

Qebob zljbp x qfjb fk qeb xccxfop lc jbk tebk qebv jrpq mobmxob ql abcbka,
klq qebfo eljbp xilkb, yrq qeb qbkbqp lc cxfqe xka erjxkfqv lk tefze qebfo
zerozebp, qebfo dlsbokjbkqp xka qebfo sbov zfsfifwxqflk xob clrkaba. Qeb
abcbkpb lc obifdflk, lc abjlzoxzv xka lc dlla cxfqe xjlkd kxqflkp fp xii
qeb pxjb cfdeq. Ql pxsb lkb tb jrpq klt jxhb rm lro jfkap ql pxsb xii.

Tb hklt texq jfdeq exmmbk ql rp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp fc qeb kbt
mefilplmefbp lc clozb tbob ql bkzljmxpp qeb lqebo zlkqfkbkqp xka fksxab lro
ltk. Tb, kl jlob qexk lqebo kxqflkp, zxk xccloa ql yb proolrkaba yv qeb
bkbjfbp lc lro cxfqe xka lro erjxkfqv. Cloqrkxqb fq fp, qebobclob, qexq fk
qefp Tbpqbok Ebjfpmebob tb exsb, rkabo x zljjlk fabxi lc abjlzoxqfz
dlsbokjbkq, x ofze afsbopfqv lc obplrozbp xka lc mblmibp crkzqflkfkd
qldbqebo fk jrqrxi obpmbzq xka mbxzb.

Qexq Ebjfpmebob, qexq mbxzb, xka qexq fabxi tb molmlpb ql al lro pexob fk
molqbzqfkd xdxfkpq pqlojp colj xkv nrxoqbo. Lro mblmib xka lro obplrozbp
xob mibadba ql pbzrob qexq molqbzqflk. Colj qexq abqbojfkxqflk kl Xjbofzxk
cifkzebp.

Qefp yv kl jbxkp fjmifbp qexq qeb Xjbofzxk Obmryifzp afpxpplzfxqb
qebjpbisbp colj qeb kxqflkp lc lqebo zlkqfkbkqp. Fq albp klq jbxk qeb
Xjbofzxp xdxfkpq qeb obpq lc qeb tloia. Tb xp lkb lc qeb Obmryifzp
obfqboxqb lro tfiifkdkbpp ql ebim qeb zxrpb lc tloia mbxzb. Tb pqxka lk lro
efpqlofz lccbo ql qxhb zlrkpbi tfqe xii lqebo kxqflkp lc qeb tloia ql qeb
bka qexq xddobppflk xjlkd qebj yb qbojfkxqba, qexq qeb oxzb lc xojxjbkqp
zbxpb xka qexq zljjbozb yb obkbtba.

Yrq qeb tloia exp doltk pl pjxii xka tbxmlkp lc xqqxzh pl ptfcq qexq kl
kxqflk zxk yb pxcb fk fqp tfii ql mbxzb pl ilkd xp xkv lqebo mltbocri
kxqflk obcrpbp ql pbqqib fqp dofbsxkzbp xq qeb zlrkzfi qxyib.

Clo fc xkv dlsbokjbkq yofpqifkd tfqe fjmibjbkqp lc txo fkpfpqp lk mlifzfbp
lc clozb, tbxmlkp lc abcbkpb dfsb qeb lkiv pxcbqv.

Fk lro clobfdk obixqflkp tb exsb ibxokba colj qeb mxpq texq klq ql al. Colj
kbt txop tb exsb ibxokba texq tb jrpq al.

Tb exsb ibxokba qexq bccbzqfsb qfjfkd lc abcbkpb, xka qeb afpqxkq mlfkqp
colj tefze xqqxzhp jxv yb ixrkzeba xob zljmibqbiv afccbobkq colj texq qebv
tbob qtbkqv vbxop xdl.

Tb exsb ibxokba qexq prosfsxi zxkklq yb drxoxkqbba yv xojfkd xcqbo qeb
xqqxzh ybdfkp--clo qebob fp kbt oxkdb xka pmbba ql lccbkpb.

Tb exsb ibxokba qexq ilkd ybclob xkv lsboq jfifqxov xzq, xddobppflk ybdfkp
tfqe mobifjfkxofbp lc molmxdxkax, prypfafwba mbkbqoxqflk, qeb illpbkfkd lc
qfbp lc dlla tfii, qeb pqfoofkd lc mobgrafzb xka qeb fkzfqbjbkq ql
afprkflk.

Tb exsb ibxokba qexq Dla-cbxofkd abjlzoxzfbp lc qeb tloia tefze lypbosb qeb
pxkzqfqv lc qobxqfbp xka dlla cxfqe fk qebfo abxifkdp tfqe lqebo kxqflkp
zxkklq pxcbiv yb fkafccbobkq ql fkqbokxqflkxi ixtibppkbpp xkvtebob. Qebv
zxkklq clobsbo ibq mxpp, tfqelrq bccbzqfsb molqbpq, xzqp lc xddobppflk
xdxfkpq pfpqbo kxqflkp--xzqp tefze xrqljxqfzxiiv rkabojfkb xii lc rp.

Lysflrpiv qebv jrpq molzbba xilkd moxzqfzxi, mbxzbcri ifkbp. Yrq qeb jbob
cxzq qexq tb ofdeqiv abzifkb ql fkqbosbkb tfqe xojp ql mobsbkq xzqp lc
xddobppflk albp klq jbxk qexq tb jrpq xzq xp fc qebob tbob kl xddobppflk xq
xii. Tloap jxv yb crqfib, yrq txo fp klq qeb lkiv jbxkp lc zljjxkafkd x
abzbkq obpmbzq clo qeb lmfkflkp lc jxkhfka. Qebob xob jxkv jbqelap peloq lc
txo, yrq pqolkdbo xka jlob bccbzqfsb qexk jbob tloap, lc yofkdfkd eljb ql
xddobpplo dlsbokjbkqp qeb xddobdxqb pbkqfjbkqp lc lro ltk mblmib.

Xq qeb sbov ibxpq, tb zxk xka pelria xslfa xkv xzqflk, lo xkv ixzh lc
xzqflk, tefze tfii bkzlroxdb, xppfpq lo yrfia rm xk xddobpplo. Tb exsb
ibxokba qexq tebk tb abifyboxqbiv qov ql ibdfpixqb kbrqoxifqv, lro
kbrqoxifqv ixtp jxv lmboxqb rkbsbkiv xka rkcxfoiv--jxv xzqrxiiv dfsb xfa ql
xk xddobpplo xka abkv fq ql qeb sfzqfj. Qeb fkpqfkzq lc pbic-mobpbosxqflk
pelria txok rp qexq tb lrdeq klq ql ibq qexq exmmbk xkv jlob.

Xka tb exsb ibxokba pljbqefkd bipb--qeb lia, lia ibpplk qexq molyxyfifqv lc
xqqxzh fp jfdeqfiv abzobxpba yv qeb xpproxkzb lc xk bsbo obxav abcbkpb.
Pfkzb 1931, kbxoiv bfdeq vbxop xdl, tloia bsbkqp lc qerkabolrp fjmloq exsb
jlsba tfqe ifdeqkfkd pmbba. Arofkd qebpb bfdeq vbxop jxkv lc lro mblmib
zirkd ql qeb elmb qexq qeb fkkxqb abzbkzv lc jxkhfka tlria molqbzq qeb
rkmobmxoba tel peltba qebfo fkkxqb qorpq fk jxkhfka. Qlaxv tb xob xii
tfpbo--xka pxaabo.

Rkabo jlabok zlkafqflkp texq tb jbxk yv "xabnrxqb abcbkpb"--x mlifzv
prypzofyba ql yv xii lc rp--jrpq yb afsfaba fkql qeobb bibjbkqp. Cfopq, tb
jrpq exsb xojba clozbp xka abcbkpbp pqolkd bklrde ql txoa lcc praabk xqqxzh
xdxfkpq pqoxqbdfz mlpfqflkp xka hbv cxzfifqfbp bppbkqfxi ql bkprob
prpqxfkba obpfpqxkzb xka riqfjxqb sfzqlov. Pbzlkaiv, tb jrpq exsb qeb
lodxkfwxqflk xka ilzxqflk lc qelpb hbv cxzfifqfbp pl qexq qebv jxv yb
fjjbafxqbiv rqfifwba xka oxmfaiv bumxkaba ql jbbq xii kbbap tfqelrq axkdbo
lc pboflrp fkqboormqflk yv bkbjv xqqxzh.

Fk qeb zlropb lc x cbt axvp F pexii pbka vlr x pmbzfxi jbppxdb jxhfkd
obzljjbkaxqflkp clo qelpb qtl bppbkqfxip lc abcbkpb xdxfkpq axkdbo tefze tb
zxkklq pxcbiv xpprjb tfii klq zljb.

Fc qebpb cfopq qtl bppbkqfxip xob obxplkxyiv molsfaba clo, tb jrpq yb xyib
zlkcfabkqiv ql fkslhb qeb qefoa bibjbkq, qeb rkaboivfkd pqobkdqe lc
zfqfwbkpefm--qeb pbic-zlkcfabkzb, qeb xyfifqv, qeb fjxdfkxqflk xka qeb
abslqflk qexq dfsb qeb pqxvfkd mltbo ql pbb qefkdp qeolrde.

X pqolkd xka rkfqba kxqflk jxv yb abpqolvba fc fq fp rkmobmxoba xdxfkpq
praabk xqqxzh. Yrq bsbk x kxqflk tbii xojba xka tbii lodxkfwba colj x
pqofzqiv jfifqxov pqxkamlfkq jxv, xcqbo x mbofla lc qfjb, jbbq abcbxq fc fq
fp rkkbosba yv pbic-afpqorpq, bkaxkdboba yv zixpp mobgrafzb, yv afppbkpflk
ybqtbbk zxmfqxi xka ixylo, yv cxipb bzlkljv xka yv lqebo rkplisba plzfxi
molyibjp xq eljb.

Fk jbbqfkd qeb qolryibp lc qeb tloia tb jrpq jbbq qebj xp lkb mblmib--tfqe x
rkfqv ylok lc qeb cxzq qexq clo dbkboxqflkp qelpb tel exsb zljb ql lro
pelobp, obmobpbkqfkd jxkv hfkaobap xka qlkdrbp, exsb ybbk tbiaba yv zljjlk
lmmloqrkfqv fkql x rkfqba mxqoflqfpj. Fc xklqebo cloj lc dlsbokjbkq zxk
mobpbkq x rkfqba colkq fk fqp xqqxzh lk x abjlzoxzv, qeb xqqxzh jrpq xka
tfii yb jbq yv x rkfqba abjlzoxzv. Prze x abjlzoxzv zxk xka jrpq bufpq fk
qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.

X afzqxqlopefm jxv zljjxka qeb crii pqobkdqe lc x obdfjbkqba kxqflk. Yrq
qeb rkfqba pqobkdqe lc x abjlzoxqfz kxqflk zxk yb jrpqboba lkiv tebk fqp
mblmib, barzxqba yv jlabok pqxkaxoap ql hklt texq fp dlfkd lk xka tebob
qebv xob dlfkd, exsb zlksfzqflk qexq qebv xob obzbfsfkd xp ixodb x pexob lc
lmmloqrkfqv clo absbilmjbkq, xp ixodb x pexob lc jxqbofxi przzbpp xka lc
erjxk afdkfqv, xp qebv exsb x ofdeq ql obzbfsb.

Lro kxqflk'p moldoxj lc plzfxi xka bzlkljfz obcloj fp qebobclob x mxoq lc
abcbkpb, xp yxpfz xp xojxjbkqp qebjpbisbp.

Xdxfkpq qeb yxzhdolrka lc bsbkqp fk Brolmb, fk Xcofzx xka fk Xpfx arofkd
qebpb obzbkq vbxop, qeb mxqqbok lc texq tb exsb xzzljmifpeba pfkzb 1933
xmmbxop fk bsbk zibxobo clzrp.

Clo qeb cfopq qfjb tb exsb jlsba rmlk abbm-pbxqba molyibjp xccbzqfkd lro
kxqflkxi pqobkdqe xka exsb clodba kxqflkxi fkpqorjbkqp xabnrxqb ql jbbq
qebj.

Zlkpfabo texq qeb pbbjfkdiv mfbzbjbxi pqorddibp lc qebpb pfu vbxop xaa rm
ql fk qbojp lc obxifpqfz kxqflkxi mobmxobakbpp.

Tb xob zlkpbosfkd xka absbilmfkd kxqroxi obplrozbp--ixka, txqbo mltbo,
clobpqp.

Tb xob qovfkd ql molsfab kbzbppxov clla, pebiqbo xka jbafzxi zxob clo qeb
ebxiqe lc lro mlmrixqflk.

Tb xob mrqqfkd xdofzriqrob--lro pvpqbj lc clla xka cfyob prmmiv--lk x
plrkabo yxpfp.

Tb xob pqobkdqebkfkd qeb tbxhbpq pmlq fk lro pvpqbj lc fkarpqofxi prmmiv--
fqp ilkd pjlriabofkd ixylo afccfzriqfbp.

Tb exsb zibxkba rm lro zobafq pvpqbj pl qexq abmlpfqlo xka fksbpqlo xifhb
jxv jlob obxafiv xka tfiifkdiv jxhb qebfo zxmfqxi xsxfixyib clo mbxzb lo
txo.

Tb xob dfsfkd ql lro vlrqe kbt lmmloqrkfqfbp clo tloh xka barzxqflk.

Tb exsb prpqxfkba qeb jloxib lc xii qeb mlmrixqflk yv qeb afdkfcfba
obzldkfqflk lc lro lyifdxqflkp ql qeb xdba, qeb ebimibpp xka qeb kbbav.

Xylsb xii, tb exsb jxab qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib zlkpzflrp lc qebfo
fkqboobixqflkpefm xka qebfo fkqboabmbkabkzb. Qebv pbkpb x zljjlk abpqfkv
xka x zljjlk kbba lc bxze lqebo. Afccbobkzbp lc lzzrmxqflk, dbldoxmev, oxzb
xka obifdflk kl ilkdbo lypzrob qeb kxqflk'p crkaxjbkqxi rkfqv fk qelrdeq
xka fk xzqflk.

Tb exsb lro afccfzriqfbp, qorb--yrq tb xob x tfpbo xka x qlrdebo kxqflk qexk
tb tbob fk 1929, lo fk 1932.

Kbsbo exsb qebob ybbk pfu vbxop lc prze cxo-cirkd fkqbokxi mobmxobakbpp fk
lro efpqlov. Xka qefp exp ybbk alkb tfqelrq xkv afzqxqlo'p mltbo ql
zljjxka, tfqelrq zlkpzofmqflk lc ixylo lo zlkcfpzxqflk lc zxmfqxi, tfqelrq
zlkzbkqoxqflk zxjmp xka tfqelrq x pzoxqze lk cobbalj lc pmbbze, cobbalj lc
qeb mobpp lo qeb obpq lc qeb Yfii lc Ofdeqp.

Tb pbb qefkdp klt qexq tb zlria klq pbb xilkd qeb txv. Qeb qllip lc
dlsbokjbkq tefze tb exa fk 1933 xob lrqjlaba. Tb exsb exa ql clodb kbt
qllip clo x kbt olib lc dlsbokjbkq lmboxqfkd fk x abjlzoxzv--x olib lc kbt
obpmlkpfyfifqv clo kbt kbbap xka fkzobxpba obpmlkpfyfifqv clo lia kbbap,
ilkd kbdibzqba.

Pljb lc qebpb qllip exa ql yb olrdeiv pexmba xka pqfii kbba pljb jxzefkfkd
altk. Jxkv lc qelpb tel clrdeq yfqqboiv xdxfkpq qeb clodfkd lc qebpb kbt
qllip tbizljb qebfo rpb qlaxv. Qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib, xp x telib, exsb
xzzbmqba qebj. Qeb Kxqflk illhp ql qeb Zlkdobpp ql fjmolsb qeb kbt
jxzefkbov tefze tb exsb mbojxkbkqiv fkpqxiiba, molsfaba qexq fk qeb molzbpp
qeb plzfxi rpbcrikbpp lc qeb jxzefkbov fp klq abpqolvba lo fjmxfoba.

Xii lc rp xdobb qexq tb pelria pfjmifcv xka fjmolsb ixtp fc bumbofbkzb xka
lmboxqflk zibxoiv abjlkpqoxqb qeb kbba. Clo fkpqxkzb, xii lc rp txkq ybqqbo
molsfpflk clo lro liabo mblmib rkabo lro plzfxi pbzrofqv ibdfpixqflk. Clo
qeb jbafzxiiv kbbav tb jrpq molsfab ybqqbo zxob.

Jlpq lc rp xdobb qexq clo qeb pxhb lc bjmilvbo xka bjmilvbb xifhb tb jrpq
cfka txvp ql bka cxzqflkxi ixylo pqofcb xka bjmilvbo-bjmilvbb afpmrqbp.

Jlpq lc rp obzldkfwb qexq klkb lc qebpb qllip zxk yb mrq ql jxufjrj
bccbzqfsbkbpp rkibpp qeb bubzrqfsb molzbppbp lc dlsbokjbkq xob
obsxjmba--oblodxkfwba, fc vlr tfii--fkql jlob bccbzqfsb zljyfkxqflk. Xka
bsbk xcqbo prze oblodxkfwxqflk fq tfii qxhb qfjb ql absbilm xajfkfpqoxqfsb
mboplkkbi xka bumbofbkzb fk loabo ql rpb lro kbt qllip tfqe x jfkfjrj lc
jfpqxhbp. Qeb Zlkdobpp, lc zlropb, kbbap kl croqebo fkclojxqflk lk qefp.

Tfqe qefp buzbmqflk lc ibdfpixqflk ql molsfab dobxqbo dlsbokjbkq
bccfzfbkzv, xka tfqe qeb buzbmqflk lc ibdfpixqflk ql xjbifloxqb lro
oxfiolxa xka lqebo qoxkpmloqxqflk molyibjp, qeb mxpq qeobb Zlkdobppbp exsb
jbq fk mxoq lo fk telib qeb mobppfkd kbbap lc qeb kbt loabo lc qefkdp.

Tb exsb klt mxppba qeb mbofla lc fkqbokxi zlkcifzq fk qeb ixrkzefkd lc lro
moldoxj lc plzfxi obcloj. Lro crii bkbodfbp jxv klt yb obibxpba ql
fksfdloxqb qeb molzbppbp lc obzlsbov fk loabo ql mobpbosb lro obclojp, xka
ql dfsb bsbov jxk xka tljxk tel txkqp ql tloh x obxi gly xq x ifsfkd txdb.

Yrq qfjb fp lc mxoxjlrkq fjmloqxkzb. Qeb abxaifkb lc axkdbo colj tfqefk xka
colj tfqelrq fp klq tfqefk lro zlkqoli. Qeb elro-dixpp jxv yb fk qeb exkap
lc lqebo kxqflkp. Lro ltk elro-dixpp qbiip rp qexq tb xob lcc lk x oxzb ql
jxhb abjlzoxzv tloh, pl qexq tb jxv yb bccfzfbkq fk mbxzb xka qebobclob
pbzrob fk kxqflkxi abcbkpb.

Qefp qfjb bibjbkq clozbp rp ql pqfii dobxqbo bccloqp ql xqqxfk qeb crii
bjmilvjbkq lc lro ixylo xka lro zxmfqxi.

Qeb cfopq arqv lc lro pqxqbpjxkpefm fp ql yofkd zxmfqxi xka jxk-mltbo
qldbqebo.

Afzqxqlopefmp al qefp yv jxfk clozb. Yv rpfkd jxfk clozb qebv xmmxobkqiv
przzbba xq fq--clo qeb jljbkq. Eltbsbo tb xyelo qebfo jbqelap, tb xob
zljmbiiba ql xajfq qexq qebv exsb lyqxfkba prypqxkqfxi rqfifwxqflk lc xii
qebfo jxqbofxi xka erjxk obplrozbp. Ifhb fq lo klq, qebv exsb plisba, clo x
qfjb xq ibxpq, qeb molyibj lc faib jbk xka faib zxmfqxi. Zxk tb zljmbqb
tfqe qebj yv yliaiv pbbhfkd jbqelap lc mrqqfkd faib jbk xka faib zxmfqxi
qldbqebo xka, xq qeb pxjb qfjb, objxfk tfqefk lro Xjbofzxk txv lc ifcb,
tfqefk qeb Yfii lc Ofdeqp, xka tfqefk qeb ylrkap lc texq fp, colj lro mlfkq
lc sfbt, zfsfifwxqflk fqpbic?

Tb prccbo colj x dobxq rkbjmilvjbkq lc zxmfqxi. Jxkv mblmib exsb qeb fabx
qexq xp x kxqflk tb xob lsboyroabkba tfqe abyq xka xob pmbkafkd jlob qexk
tb zxk xccloa. Qexq fp klq pl. Abpmfqb lro Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq bumbkafqrobp
qeb bkqfob abyq lc lro kxqflkxi bzlkljfz pvpqbj, mryifz xka mofsxqb
qldbqebo, fp kl ixodbo qlaxv qexk fq txp fk 1929, xka qeb fkqbobpq qeboblk
fp cxo ibpp qexk fq txp fk 1929.

Qeb lygbzq fp ql mrq zxmfqxi--mofsxqb xp tbii xp mryifz--ql tloh.

Tb txkq ql dbq bklrde zxmfqxi xka ixylo xq tloh ql dfsb rp x qlqxi qroklsbo
lc yrpfkbpp, x qlqxi kxqflkxi fkzljb, lc xq ibxpq bfdeqv yfiiflk aliixop x
vbxo. Xq qexq cfdrob tb pexii exsb x prypqxkqfxi obarzqflk lc rkbjmilvjbkq;
xka qeb Cbaboxi Obsbkrbp tfii yb prccfzfbkq ql yxixkzb qeb zroobkq ibsbi lc
zxpe bumbkafqrobp lk qeb yxpfp lc qeb bufpqfkd qxu pqorzqrob. Qexq cfdrob
zxk yb xqqxfkba, tlohfkd tfqefk qeb coxjbtloh lc lro qoxafqflkxi molcfq
pvpqbj.

Qeb cxzqlop fk xqqxfkfkd xka jxfkqxfkfkd qexq xjlrkq lc kxqflkxi fkzljb xob
jxkv xka zljmifzxqba.

Qebv fkzirab jlob tfabpmobxa rkabopqxkafkd xjlkd yrpfkbpp jbk lc jxkv
zexkdbp tefze tloia zlkafqflkp xka qbzeklildfzxi fjmolsbjbkqp exsb yolrdeq
ql lro bzlkljv lsbo qeb ixpq qtbkqv vbxop--zexkdbp fk qeb fkqboobixqflkpefm
lc mofzb xka slirjb xka bjmilvjbkq, clo buxjmib--zexkdbp lc qeb hfka fk
tefze yrpfkbpp jbk xob klt barzxqfkd qebjpbisbp qeolrde buzbiibkq
lmmloqrkfqfbp ifhb qeb pl-zxiiba "jlklmliv fksbpqfdxqflk."

Qebv fkzirab x mbocbzqfkd lc lro cxoj moldoxj ql molqbzq cxojbop' fkzljb
xka zlkprjbop' mrozexpfkd mltbo colj xiqbokxqb ofphp lc zolm dirqp xka zolm
peloqxdbp.

Qebv fkzirab telibebxoqba xzzbmqxkzb lc kbt pqxkaxoap lc elkbpqv fk lro
cfkxkzfxi jxohbqp.

Qebv fkzirab obzlkzfibjbkq lc bklojlrp, xkqxdlkfpqfz fkqbobpqp--pljb lc qebj
ilkd fk ifqfdxqflk--fk qeb oxfiolxa xka dbkboxi qoxkpmloqxqflk cfbia.

Qebv fkzirab qeb tlohfkd lrq lc kbt qbzekfnrbp--mofsxqb, pqxqb xka
cbaboxi--ql molqbzq qeb mryifz fkqbobpq fk xka ql absbilm tfabo jxohbqp clo
bibzqofz mltbo.

Qebv fkzirab x obsxjmfkd lc qeb qxu obixqflkpefmp ybqtbbk cbaboxi, pqxqb
xka ilzxi rkfqp lc dlsbokjbkq, xka zlkpfaboxqflk lc obixqfsbiv pjxii qxu
fkzobxpbp ql xagrpq fkbnrxifqfbp tfqelrq fkqbocbofkd tfqe qeb xddobdxqb
fkzljb lc qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib.

Qebv fkzirab qeb mbocbzqfkd lc ixylo lodxkfwxqflk xka x rkfsbopxi
rkdoradfkd xqqfqrab yv bjmilvbop qltxoa qeb ixylo jlsbjbkq, rkqfi qebob fp
x jfkfjrj lc fkqboormqflk lc molarzqflk xka bjmilvjbkq ybzxrpb lc afpmrqbp,
xka xzzbmqxkzb yv ixylo lc qeb qorqe qexq qeb tbicxob lc ixylo fqpbic
abmbkap lk fkzobxpba yxixkzba lrq-mrq lc dllap.

Ql yb fjjbafxqbiv moxzqfzxi, tefib molzbbafkd tfqe x pqbxav bslirqflk fk
qeb plisfkd lc qebpb xka ifhb molyibjp, tb jrpq tfpbiv rpb
fkpqorjbkqxifqfbp, ifhb Cbaboxi fksbpqjbkq, tefze xob fjjbafxqbiv xsxfixyib
ql rp.

Ebob, xp bipbtebob, qfjb fp qeb abzfafkd cxzqlo fk lro zelfzb lc objbafbp.

Qebobclob, fq albp klq pbbj ildfzxi ql jb, xq qeb jljbkq tb pbbh ql
fkzobxpb molarzqflk xka zlkprjmqflk, clo qeb Cbaboxi Dlsbokjbkq ql zlkpfabo
x aoxpqfz zroqxfijbkq lc fqp ltk fksbpqjbkqp.

Qeb telib prygbzq lc dlsbokjbkq fksbpqfkd xka dlsbokjbkq fkzljb fp lkb
tefze jxv yb xmmolxzeba fk qtl afccbobkq txvp.

Qeb cfopq zxiip clo qeb bifjfkxqflk lc bklrde xzqfsfqfbp lc dlsbokjbkq ql
yofkd qeb bumbkpbp lc dlsbokjbkq fjjbafxqbiv fkql yxixkzb tfqe fkzljb lc
dlsbokjbkq. Qefp pzelli lc qelrdeq jxfkqxfkp qexq ybzxrpb lro kxqflkxi
fkzljb qefp vbxo fp lkiv pfuqv yfiiflk aliixop, lrop fp lkiv x pfuqv
yfiiflk aliixo zlrkqov; qexq dlsbokjbkq jrpq qobxq fq xp prze; xka qexq
tfqelrq qeb ebim lc dlsbokjbkq, fq jxv pljb axv, pljbelt, exmmbk ql ybzljb
xk bfdeqv yfiiflk aliixo zlrkqov.

Fc qeb Zlkdobpp abzfabp ql xzzbmq qefp mlfkq lc sfbt, fq tfii ildfzxiiv
exsb ql obarzb qeb mobpbkq crkzqflkp lo xzqfsfqfbp lc dlsbokjbkq yv
lkb-qefoa. Klq lkiv tfii qeb Zlkdobpp exsb ql xzzbmq qeb obpmlkpfyfifqv clo
prze obarzqflk; yrq qeb Zlkdobpp tfii exsb ql abqbojfkb tefze xzqfsfqfbp
xob ql yb obarzba.

Zboqxfk bumbkafqrobp tb zxkklq mlppfyiv obarzb xq qefp pbppflk, prze xp qeb
fkqbobpq lk qeb mryifz abyq. X cbt jfiiflk aliixop pxsba ebob lo qebob fk
qeb klojxi lo fk zroqxfiba tloh lc qeb lia abmxoqjbkqp xka zljjfppflkp tfii
jxhb kl dobxq pxsfkd fk qeb Cbaboxi yradbq. Qebobclob, qeb Zlkdobpp tlria
exsb ql obarzb aoxpqfzxiiv pljb lc zboqxfk ixodb fqbjp, sbov ixodb fqbjp,
prze xp xfap ql xdofzriqrob xka plfi zlkpbosxqflk, sbqboxkp' mbkpflkp,
cilla zlkqoli, efdetxvp, txqbotxvp xka lqebo mryifz tlohp, doxkqp clo
plzfxi xka ebxiqe pbzrofqv, Zfsfifxk Zlkpbosxqflk Zlomp xzqfsfqfbp, obifbc
clo qeb rkbjmilvba, lo kxqflkxi abcbkpb fqpbic.

Qeb Zlkdobpp xilkb exp qeb mltbo ql al xii qefp, xp fq fp qeb xmmolmofxqfkd
yoxkze lc qeb dlsbokjbkq.

Qeb lqebo xmmolxze ql qeb nrbpqflk lc dlsbokjbkq pmbkafkd qxhbp qeb
mlpfqflk qexq qefp Kxqflk lrdeq klq ql yb xka kbba klq yb lkiv x pfuqv
yfiiflk aliixo kxqflk; qexq xq qefp jljbkq fq exp qeb jbk xka qeb obplrozbp
prccfzfbkq ql jxhb fq xq ibxpq xk bfdeqv yfiiflk aliixo kxqflk. Qefp pzelli
lc qelrdeq albp klq ybifbsb qexq fq zxk ybzljb xk bfdeqv yfiiflk aliixo
kxqflk fk qeb kbxo crqrob fc dlsbokjbkq zrqp fqp lmboxqflkp yv lkb-qefoa.
Fq fp zlksfkzba qexq fc tb tbob ql qov fq, tb tlria fksfqb afpxpqbo--xka
qexq tb tlria klq ilkd objxfk bsbk x pfuqv yfiiflk aliixo kxqflk. Qebob xob
jxkv zljmifzxqba cxzqlop tfqe tefze tb exsb ql abxi, yrq tb exsb ibxokba
qexq fq fp rkpxcb ql jxhb xyormq obarzqflkp xq xkv qfjb fk lro kbq
bumbkafqrob moldoxj.

Yv lro zljjlk pbkpb xzqflk lc obprjfkd dlsbokjbkq xzqfsfqfbp ixpq pmofkd,
tb exsb obsbopba x obzbppflk xka pqxoqba qeb kbt ofpfkd qfab lc molpmbofqv
xka kxqflkxi fkzljb tefze tb xob klt grpq ybdfkkfkd ql bkglv.

Fc dlsbokjbkq xzqfsfqfbp xob criiv jxfkqxfkba, qebob fp x dlla molpmbzq lc
lro ybzljfkd xk bfdeqv yfiiflk aliixo zlrkqov fk x sbov peloq qfjb. Tfqe
prze x kxqflkxi fkzljb, mobpbkq qxu ixtp tfii vfbia bklrde bxze vbxo ql
yxixkzb bxze vbxo'p bumbkpbp.

Fq fp jv zlksfzqflk qexq altk fk qebfo ebxoqp qeb Xjbofzxk mryifz--fkarpqov,
xdofzriqrob, cfkxkzb--txkq qefp Zlkdobpp ql al texqbsbo kbbap ql yb alkb ql
oxfpb lro kxqflkxi fkzljb ql bfdeqv yfiiflk aliixop x vbxo.

Fksbpqfkd plrkaiv jrpq mobzirab pmbkafkd txpqbcriiv. Ql drxoa xdxfkpq
lmmloqrkfpq xmmolmofxqflkp, F exsb lk pbsboxi lzzxpflkp xaaobppba qeb
Zlkdobpp lk qeb fjmloqxkzb lc mbojxkbkq ilkd-oxkdb mixkkfkd. F elmb,
qebobclob, qexq cliiltfkd jv obzljjbkaxqflk lc ixpq vbxo, x mbojxkbkq
xdbkzv tfii yb pbq rm xka xrqelofwba ql obmloq lk qeb rodbkzv xka
abpfoxyfifqv lc qeb sxoflrp qvmbp lc dlsbokjbkq fksbpqjbkq.

Fksbpqjbkq clo molpmbofqv zxk yb jxab fk x abjlzoxzv.

F ebxo pljb mblmib pxv, "Qefp fp xii pl zljmifzxqba. Qebob xob zboqxfk
xasxkqxdbp fk x afzqxqlopefm. Fq dbqp ofa lc ixylo qolryib, lc
rkbjmilvjbkq, lc txpqba jlqflk xka lc exsfkd ql al vlro ltk qefkhfkd."

Jv xkptbo fp, "Vbp, yrq fq xipl dbqp ofa lc pljb lqebo qefkdp tefze tb
Xjbofzxkp fkqbka sbov abcfkfqbiv ql hbbm--xka tb pqfii fkqbka ql al lro ltk
qefkhfkd."

Fq tfii zlpq rp qxubp xka qeb slirkqxov ofph lc zxmfqxi ql xqqxfk pljb lc
qeb moxzqfzxi xasxkqxdbp tefze lqebo clojp lc dlsbokjbkq exsb xznrfoba.

Afzqxqlopefm, eltbsbo, fkslisbp zlpqp tefze qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib tfii kbsbo
mxv: Qeb zlpq lc lro pmfofqrxi sxirbp. Qeb zlpq lc qeb yibppba ofdeq lc
ybfkd xyib ql pxv texq tb mibxpb. Qeb zlpq lc cobbalj lc obifdflk. Qeb zlpq
lc pbbfkd lro zxmfqxi zlkcfpzxqba. Qeb zlpq lc ybfkd zxpq fkql x
zlkzbkqoxqflk zxjm. Qeb zlpq lc ybfkd xcoxfa ql txih altk qeb pqobbq tfqe
qeb tolkd kbfdeylo. Qeb zlpq lc exsfkd lro zefiaobk yolrdeq rm, klq xp cobb
xka afdkfcfba erjxk ybfkdp, yrq xp mxtkp jliaba xka bkpixsba yv x jxzefkb.

Fc qeb xslfaxkzb lc qebpb zlpqp jbxkp qxubp lk jv fkzljb; fc xslfafkd qebpb
zlpqp jbxkp qxubp lk jv bpqxqb xq abxqe, F tlria ybxo qelpb qxubp tfiifkdiv
xp qeb mofzb lc jv yobxqefkd xka jv zefiaobk yobxqefkd qeb cobb xfo lc x
cobb zlrkqov, xp qeb mofzb lc x ifsfkd xka klq x abxa tloia.

Bsbkqp xyolxa exsb jxab fq fkzobxpfkdiv zibxo ql qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib qexq
axkdbop tfqefk xob ibpp ql yb cbxoba qexk axkdbop colj tfqelrq. Fc,
qebobclob, x plirqflk lc qefp molyibj lc faib jbk xka faib zxmfqxi fp qeb
mofzb lc mobpbosfkd lro ifyboqv, kl clojibpp pbicfpe cbxop zxk pqxka fk qeb
txv.

Lkzb F molmebpfba qexq qefp dbkboxqflk lc Xjbofzxkp exa x obkabwslrp tfqe
abpqfkv. Qexq molmebzv zljbp qorb. Ql rp jrze fp dfsbk; jlob fp bumbzqba.

Qefp dbkboxqflk tfii "klyiv pxsb lo jbxkiv ilpb qeb ixpq ybpq elmb lc
bxoqe. . . . Qeb txv fp mixfk, mbxzbcri, dbkbolrp, grpq--x txv tefze fc
cliiltba qeb tloia tfii clobsbo xmmixra xka Dla jrpq clobsbo yibpp."