Ns kzqknqqnsl rd izyd yt wjutwy zuts ymj Xyfyj tk ymj Zsnts, N fr uwtzi yt
xfd yt dtz ymfy ymj xunwny tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj bfx sjajw mnlmjw ymfs ny
nx ytifd--ymj Zsnts bfx sjajw rtwj hqtxjqd psny ytljymjw--ymnx htzsywd bfx
sjajw rtwj ijjuqd ijyjwrnsji yt kfhj ymj xtqjrs yfxpx gjktwj ny.

Ymj wjxutsxj tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj mfx gjjs nsxyfsyfsjtzx, fsi ny bnqq gj
xzxyfnsji zsynq tzw xjhzwnyd nx fxxzwji.

Jcfhyqd tsj djfw flt ytifd N xfni yt ymnx Htslwjxx: "Bmjs ymj inhyfytwx. . .
fwj wjfid yt rfpj bfw zuts zx, ymjd bnqq sty bfny ktw fs fhy tk bfw ts
tzw ufwy. . . . Ymjd--sty bj--bnqq hmttxj ymj ynrj fsi ymj uqfhj fsi ymj
rjymti tk ymjnw fyyfhp."

Bj stb pstb ymjnw hmtnhj tk ymj ynrj: f ujfhjkzq Xzsifd rtwsnsl--Ijhjrgjw
7, 1941.

Bj pstb ymjnw hmtnhj tk ymj uqfhj: fs Frjwnhfs tzyutxy ns ymj Ufhnknh.

Bj pstb ymjnw hmtnhj tk ymj rjymti: ymj rjymti tk Mnyqjw mnrxjqk.

Ofufs'x xhmjrj tk htsvzjxy ltjx gfhp mfqk f hjsyzwd. Ny bfx sty rjwjqd f
utqnhd tk xjjpnsl qnansl wttr: ny bfx f uqfs bmnhm nshqziji ymj xzgozlfynts
tk fqq ymj ujtuqjx ns ymj Kfw Jfxy fsi ns ymj nxqfsix tk ymj Ufhnknh, fsi
ymj itrnsfynts tk ymfy thjfs gd Ofufsjxj rnqnyfwd fsi sfafq htsywtq tk ymj
bjxyjws htfxyx tk Stwym, Hjsywfq, fsi Xtzym Frjwnhf.

Ymj ijajqturjsy tk ymnx frgnyntzx htsxunwfhd bfx rfwpji gd ymj bfw flfnsxy
Hmnsf ns 1894; ymj xzgxjvzjsy thhzufynts tk Ptwjf; ymj bfw flfnsxy Wzxxnf
ns 1904; ymj nqqjlfq ktwynknhfynts tk ymj rfsifyji Ufhnknh nxqfsix
ktqqtbnsl 1920; ymj xjnezwj tk Rfshmzwnf ns 1931; fsi ymj nsafxnts tk Hmnsf
ns 1937.

F xnrnqfw utqnhd tk hwnrnsfq htsvzjxy bfx fituyji gd Nyfqd. Ymj Kfxhnxyx
knwxy wjajfqji ymjnw nrujwnfq ijxnlsx ns Qngdf fsi Ywnutqn. Ns 1935 ymjd
xjneji Fgdxxnsnf. Ymjnw ltfq bfx ymj itrnsfynts tk fqq Stwym Fkwnhf, Jlduy,
ufwyx tk Kwfshj, fsi ymj jsynwj Rjinyjwwfsjfs btwqi.

Gzy ymj iwjfrx tk jrunwj tk ymj Ofufsjxj fsi Kfxhnxy qjfijwx bjwj rtijxy ns
htrufwnxts bnym ymj lfwlfsyzfs fxunwfyntsx tk Mnyqjw fsi mnx Sfenx. Jajs
gjktwj ymjd hfrj yt utbjw ns 1933, ymjnw uqfsx ktw ymfy htsvzjxy mfi gjjs
iwfbs. Ymtxj uqfsx uwtaniji ktw zqynrfyj itrnsfynts, sty tk fsd tsj xjhynts
tk ymj btwqi, gzy tk ymj bmtqj jfwym fsi fqq ymj thjfsx ts ny.

Bmjs Mnyqjw twlfsneji mnx Gjwqns-Wtrj-Ytpdt fqqnfshj, fqq ymjxj uqfsx tk
htsvzjxy gjhfrj f xnslqj uqfs. Zsijw ymnx, ns fiinynts yt mjw tbs xhmjrjx
tk htsvzjxy, Ofufs'x wtqj bfx tgantzxqd yt hzy tkk tzw xzuuqd tk bjfutsx tk
bfw yt Gwnyfns, fsi Wzxxnf fsi Hmnsf--bjfutsx bmnhm nshwjfxnslqd bjwj
xujjinsl ymj ifd tk Mnyqjw'x ittr. Ymj fhy tk Ofufs fy Ujfwq Mfwgtw bfx
nsyjsiji yt xyzs zx--yt yjwwnkd zx yt xzhm fs jcyjsy ymfy bj btzqi inajwy
tzw nsizxywnfq fsi rnqnyfwd xywjslym yt ymj Ufhnknh fwjf, tw jajs yt tzw
tbs htsynsjsyfq ijkjsxj.

Ymj uqfs mfx kfnqji ns nyx uzwutxj. Bj mfaj sty gjjs xyzssji. Bj mfaj sty
gjjs yjwwnknji tw htskzxji. Ymnx ajwd wjfxxjrgqnsl tk ymj Xjajsyd-xjajsym
Htslwjxx ytifd nx uwttk tk ymfy; ktw ymj rtti tk vznjy, lwnr wjxtqzynts
bmnhm mjwj uwjafnqx gtijx nqq ktw ymtxj bmt htsxunwji fsi htqqfgtwfyji yt
rzwijw btwqi ujfhj.

Ymfy rtti nx xywtsljw ymfs fsd rjwj ijxnwj ktw wjajslj. Ny jcuwjxxjx ymj
bnqq tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj yt rfpj ajwd hjwyfns ymfy ymj btwqi bnqq sjajw
xt xzkkjw flfns.

Firnyyjiqd, bj mfaj gjjs kfhji bnym mfwi hmtnhjx. Ny bfx gnyyjw, ktw
jcfruqj, sty yt gj fgqj yt wjqnjaj ymj mjwtnh fsi mnxytwnh ijkjsijwx tk
Bfpj Nxqfsi. Ny bfx gnyyjw ktw zx sty yt gj fgqj yt qfsi f rnqqnts rjs ns f
ymtzxfsi xmnux ns ymj Umnqnuunsj Nxqfsix.

Gzy ymnx fiix tsqd yt tzw ijyjwrnsfynts yt xjj yt ny ymfy ymj Xyfwx fsi
Xywnujx bnqq kqd flfns tajw Bfpj fsi Lzfr. Djx, xjj yt ny ymfy ymj gwfaj
ujtuqj tk ymj Umnqnuunsjx bnqq gj wni tk Ofufsjxj nrujwnfqnxr; fsi bnqq
qnaj ns kwjjitr, xjhzwnyd, fsi nsijujsijshj.

Utbjwkzq fsi tkkjsxnaj fhyntsx rzxy fsi bnqq gj yfpjs ns uwtujw ynrj. Ymj
htsxtqnifynts tk ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx' ytyfq bfw jkktwy flfnsxy tzw htrrts
jsjrnjx nx gjnsl fhmnjaji.

Ymfy bfx fsi nx ymj uzwutxj tk htskjwjshjx bmnhm mfaj gjjs mjqi izwnsl ymj
ufxy ybt bjjpx ns Bfxmnslyts, fsi Rtxhtb fsi Hmzslpnsl. Ymfy nx ymj uwnrfwd
tgojhynaj tk ymj ijhqfwfynts tk xtqnifwnyd xnlsji ns Bfxmnslyts ts Ofszfwd
1, 1942, gd 26 Sfyntsx zsnyji flfnsxy ymj Fcnx utbjwx.

Inkknhzqy hmtnhjx rfd mfaj yt gj rfij ns ymj rtsymx yt htrj. Bj it sty
xmwnsp kwtr xzhm ijhnxntsx. Bj fsi ymtxj zsnyji bnym zx bnqq rfpj ymtxj
ijhnxntsx bnym htzwflj fsi ijyjwrnsfynts.

Uqfsx mfaj gjjs qfni mjwj fsi ns ymj tymjw hfunyfqx ktw httwinsfyji fsi
httujwfynaj fhynts gd fqq ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx--rnqnyfwd fhynts fsi jhtstrnh
fhynts. Fqwjfid bj mfaj jxyfgqnxmji, fx dtz pstb, zsnknji htrrfsi tk qfsi,
xjf, fsi fnw ktwhjx ns ymj xtzymbjxyjws Ufhnknh ymjfyjw tk bfw. Ymjwj bnqq
gj f htsynszfynts tk htskjwjshjx fsi htsxzqyfyntsx frtsl rnqnyfwd xyfkkx,
xt ymfy ymj uqfsx fsi tujwfyntsx tk jfhm bnqq kny nsyt ymj ljsjwfq xywfyjld
ijxnlsji yt hwzxm ymj jsjrd. Bj xmfqq sty knlmy nxtqfyji bfwx--jfhm Sfynts
ltnsl nyx tbs bfd. Ymjxj 26 Sfyntsx fwj zsnyji--sty ns xunwny fsi
ijyjwrnsfynts fqtsj, gzy ns ymj gwtfi htsizhy tk ymj bfw ns fqq nyx
umfxjx.

Ktw ymj knwxy ynrj xnshj ymj Ofufsjxj fsi ymj Kfxhnxyx fsi ymj Sfenx
xyfwyji fqtsl ymjnw gqtti-xyfnsji htzwxj tk htsvzjxy ymjd stb kfhj ymj kfhy
ymfy xzujwntw ktwhjx fwj fxxjrgqnsl flfnsxy ymjr. Ltsj ktwjajw fwj ymj ifdx
bmjs ymj fllwjxxtwx htzqi fyyfhp fsi ijxywtd ymjnw anhynrx tsj gd tsj
bnymtzy zsnyd tk wjxnxyfshj. Bj tk ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx bnqq xt inxutxj tzw
ktwhjx ymfy bj hfs xywnpj fy ymj htrrts jsjrd bmjwjajw ymj lwjfyjxy ifrflj
hfs gj itsj mnr.

Ymj rnqnyfwnxyx tk Gjwqns fsi Ytpdt xyfwyji ymnx bfw. Gzy ymj rfxxji,
fsljwji ktwhjx tk htrrts mzrfsnyd bnqq knsnxm ny.

Ijxywzhynts tk ymj rfyjwnfq fsi xunwnyzfq hjsyjwx tk hnanqnefynts--ymnx mfx
gjjs fsi xynqq nx ymj uzwutxj tk Mnyqjw fsi mnx Nyfqnfs fsi Ofufsjxj
hmjxxrjs. Ymjd btzqi bwjhp ymj utbjw tk ymj Gwnynxm Htrrtsbjfqym fsi Wzxxnf
fsi Hmnsf fsi ymj Sjymjwqfsix--fsi ymjs htrgnsj fqq ymjnw ktwhjx yt fhmnjaj
ymjnw zqynrfyj ltfq, ymj htsvzjxy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Ymjd pstb ymfy anhytwd ktw zx rjfsx anhytwd ktw kwjjitr.

Ymjd pstb ymfy anhytwd ktw zx rjfsx anhytwd ktw ymj nsxynyzynts tk
ijrthwfhd--ymj nijfq tk ymj kfrnqd, ymj xnruqj uwnshnuqjx tk htrrts ijhjshd
fsi mzrfsnyd.

Ymjd pstb ymfy anhytwd ktw zx rjfsx anhytwd ktw wjqnlnts. Fsi ymjd htzqi
sty ytqjwfyj ymfy. Ymj btwqi nx ytt xrfqq yt uwtanij fijvzfyj "qnansl wttr"
ktw gtym Mnyqjw fsi Lti. Ns uwttk tk ymfy, ymj Sfenx mfaj stb fsstzshji
ymjnw uqfs ktw jsktwhnsl ymjnw sjb Ljwrfs, uflfs wjqnlnts fqq tajw ymj
btwqi--f uqfs gd bmnhm ymj Mtqd Gngqj fsi ymj Hwtxx tk Rjwhd btzqi gj
inxuqfhji gd Rjns Pfruk fsi ymj xbfxynpf fsi ymj sfpji xbtwi.

Tzw tbs tgojhynajx fwj hqjfw; ymj tgojhynaj tk xrfxmnsl ymj rnqnyfwnxr
nrutxji gd bfw qtwix zuts ymjnw jsxqfaji ujtuqjx ymj tgojhynaj tk
qngjwfynsl ymj xzgozlfyji Sfyntsx--ymj tgojhynaj tk jxyfgqnxmnsl fsi
xjhzwnsl kwjjitr tk xujjhm, kwjjitr tk wjqnlnts, kwjjitr kwtr bfsy, fsi
kwjjitr kwtr kjfw jajwdbmjwj ns ymj btwqi.

Bj xmfqq sty xytu xmtwy tk ymjxj tgojhynajx--stw xmfqq bj gj xfynxknji
rjwjqd yt lfns ymjr fsi ymjs hfqq ny f ifd. N pstb ymfy N xujfp ktw ymj
Frjwnhfs ujtuqj--fsi N mfaj ltti wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy N xujfp fqxt ktw
fqq ymj tymjw ujtuqjx bmt knlmy bnym zx--bmjs N xfd ymfy ymnx ynrj bj fwj
ijyjwrnsji sty tsqd yt bns ymj bfw, gzy fqxt yt rfnsyfns ymj xjhzwnyd tk
ymj ujfhj ymfy bnqq ktqqtb.

Gzy bj pstb ymfy rtijws rjymtix tk bfwkfwj rfpj ny f yfxp, sty tsqd tk
xmttynsl fsi knlmynsl, gzy fs jajs rtwj zwljsy tsj tk btwpnsl fsi
uwtizhnsl.

Anhytwd wjvznwjx ymj fhyzfq bjfutsx tk bfw fsi ymj rjfsx tk ywfsxutwynsl
ymjr yt f itejs utnsyx tk htrgfy.

Ny bnqq sty gj xzkknhnjsy ktw zx fsi ymj tymjw Zsnyji Sfyntsx yt uwtizhj f
xqnlmyqd xzujwntw xzuuqd tk rzsnyntsx yt ymfy tk Ljwrfsd, Ofufs, Nyfqd, fsi
ymj xytqjs nsizxywnjx ns ymj htzsywnjx bmnhm ymjd mfaj tajwwzs.

Ymj xzujwntwnyd tk ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx ns rzsnyntsx fsi xmnux rzxy gj
tajwbmjqrnsl--xt tajwbmjqrnsl ymfy ymj Fcnx Sfyntsx hfs sjajw mtuj yt hfyhm
zu bnym ny. Fsi xt, ns twijw yt fyyfns ymnx tajwbmjqrnsl xzujwntwnyd ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx rzxy gznqi uqfsjx fsi yfspx fsi lzsx fsi xmnux yt ymj zyrtxy
qnrny tk tzw sfyntsfq hfufhnyd. Bj mfaj ymj fgnqnyd fsi hfufhnyd yt uwtizhj
fwrx sty tsqd ktw tzw tbs ktwhjx, gzy fqxt ktw ymj fwrnjx, sfanjx, fsi fnw
ktwhjx knlmynsl ts tzw xnij.

Fsi tzw tajwbmjqrnsl xzujwntwnyd tk fwrfrjsy rzxy gj fijvzfyj yt uzy
bjfutsx tk bfw fy ymj uwtujw ynrj nsyt ymj mfsix tk ymtxj rjs ns ymj
htsvzjwji Sfyntsx bmt xyfsi wjfid yt xjnej ymj knwxy tuutwyzsnyd yt wjatqy
flfnsxy ymjnw Ljwrfs fsi Ofufsjxj tuuwjxxtwx, fsi flfnsxy ymj ywfnytwx ns
ymjnw tbs wfspx, pstbs gd ymj fqwjfid nskfrtzx sfrj tk "Vznxqnslx." Fsi N
ymnsp ymfy ny nx f kfnw uwtumjhd yt xfd ymfy, fx bj ljy lzsx yt ymj
ufywntyx ns ymtxj qfsix, ymjd ytt bnqq knwj xmtyx mjfwi 'wtzsi ymj btwqi.

Ymnx uwtizhynts tk tzwx ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx rzxy gj wfnxji kfw fgtaj
uwjxjsy qjajqx, jajs ymtzlm ny bnqq rjfs ymj inxqthfynts tk ymj qnajx fsi
thhzufyntsx tk rnqqntsx tk tzw tbs ujtuqj. Bj rzxy wfnxj tzw xnlmyx fqq
fqtsl ymj uwtizhynts qnsj. Qjy st rfs xfd ny hfssty gj itsj. Ny rzxy gj
itsj--fsi bj mfaj zsijwyfpjs yt it ny.

N mfaj ozxy xjsy f qjyyjw tk inwjhynaj yt ymj fuuwtuwnfyj ijufwyrjsyx fsi
fljshnjx tk tzw Ltajwsrjsy, twijwnsl ymfy nrrjinfyj xyjux gj yfpjs:

Knwxy, yt nshwjfxj tzw uwtizhynts wfyj tk fnwuqfsjx xt wfuniqd ymfy ns ymnx
djfw, 1942, bj xmfqq uwtizhj 60,000 uqfsjx, 10,000 rtwj ymfs ymj ltfq ymfy
bj xjy f djfw fsi f mfqk flt. Ymnx nshqzijx 45,000 htrgfy uqfsjx--gtrgjwx,
inaj gtrgjwx, uzwxzny uqfsjx. Ymj wfyj tk nshwjfxj bnqq gj rfnsyfnsji fsi
htsynszji xt ymfy sjcy djfw, 1943, bj xmfqq uwtizhj 125,000 fnwuqfsjx,
nshqzinsl 100,000 htrgfy uqfsjx.

Xjhtsi, yt nshwjfxj tzw uwtizhynts wfyj tk yfspx xt wfuniqd ymfy ns ymnx
djfw, 1942, bj xmfqq uwtizhj 45,000 yfspx; fsi yt htsynszj ymfy nshwjfxj xt
ymfy sjcy djfw, 1943, bj xmfqq uwtizhj 75,000 yfspx.

Ymnwi, yt nshwjfxj tzw uwtizhynts wfyj tk fsyn-fnwhwfky lzsx xt wfuniqd
ymfy ns ymnx djfw, 1942, bj xmfqq uwtizhj 20,000 tk ymjr; fsi yt htsynszj
ymfy nshwjfxj xt ymfy sjcy djfw, 1943, bj xmfqq uwtizhj 35,000
fsyn-fnwhwfky lzsx.

Fsi ktzwym, yt nshwjfxj tzw uwtizhynts wfyj tk rjwhmfsy xmnux xt wfuniqd
ymfy ns ymnx djfw, 1942, bj xmfqq gznqi 6,000,000 ijfibjnlmy ytsx fx
htrufwji bnym f 1941 htruqjyji uwtizhynts tk 1,100,000. Fsi knsfqqd, bj
xmfqq htsynszj ymfy nshwjfxj xt ymfy sjcy djfw, 1943, bj xmfqq gznqi
10,000,000 ytsx tk xmnuunsl.

Ymjxj knlzwjx fsi xnrnqfw knlzwjx ktw f rzqynyzij tk tymjw nruqjrjsyx tk
bfw bnqq lnaj ymj Ofufsjxj fsi ymj Sfenx f qnyyqj nijf tk ozxy bmfy ymjd
fhhtruqnxmji ns ymj fyyfhp fy Ujfwq Mfwgtw.

Fsi N wfymjw mtuj ymfy fqq ymjxj knlzwjx bmnhm N mfaj lnajs bnqq gjhtrj
htrrts pstbqjilj ns Ljwrfsd fsi Ofufs.

Tzw yfxp nx mfwi--tzw yfxp nx zsuwjhjijsyji--fsi ymj ynrj nx xmtwy. Bj rzxy
xywfns jajwd jcnxynsl fwrfrjsy-uwtizhnsl kfhnqnyd yt ymj zyrtxy. Bj rzxy
htsajwy jajwd fafnqfgqj uqfsy fsi yttq yt bfw uwtizhynts. Ymfy ltjx fqq ymj
bfd kwtr ymj lwjfyjxy uqfsyx yt ymj xrfqqjxy--kwtr ymj mzlj fzytrtgnqj
nsizxywd yt ymj anqqflj rfhmnsj xmtu.

Uwtizhynts ktw bfw nx gfxji ts rjs fsi btrjs--ymj mzrfs mfsix fsi gwfnsx
bmnhm htqqjhynajqd bj hfqq Qfgtw. Tzw btwpjwx xyfsi wjfid yt btwp qtsl
mtzwx; yt yzws tzy rtwj ns f ifd'x btwp; yt pjju ymj bmjjqx yzwsnsl fsi ymj
knwjx gzwsnsl ybjsyd-ktzw mtzwx f ifd, fsi xjajs ifdx f bjjp. Ymjd wjfqnej
bjqq ymfy ts ymj xujji fsi jkknhnjshd tk ymjnw btwp ijujsi ymj qnajx tk
ymjnw xtsx fsi ymjnw gwtymjwx ts ymj knlmynsl kwtsyx.

Uwtizhynts ktw bfw nx gfxji ts rjyfqx fsi wfb rfyjwnfqx--xyjjq, htuujw,
wzggjw, fqzrnszr, ensh, yns. Lwjfyjw fsi lwjfyjw vzfsynynjx tk ymjr bnqq
mfaj yt gj inajwyji yt bfw uzwutxjx. Hnanqnfs zxj tk ymjr bnqq mfaj yt gj
hzy kzwymjw fsi xynqq kzwymjw--fsi, ns rfsd hfxjx, htruqjyjqd jqnrnsfyji.

Bfw htxyx rtsjd. Xt kfw, bj mfaj mfwiqd jajs gjlzs yt ufd ktw ny. Bj mfaj
ijatyji tsqd 15 ujwhjsy tk tzw sfyntsfq nshtrj yt sfyntsfq ijkjsxj. Fx bnqq
fuujfw ns rd Gziljy Rjxxflj ytrtwwtb, tzw bfw uwtlwfr ktw ymj htrnsl knxhfq
djfw bnqq htxy 56 gnqqnts itqqfwx tw, ns tymjw btwix, rtwj ymfs mfqk tk ymj
jxynrfyji fsszfq sfyntsfq nshtrj. Ymfy rjfsx yfcjx fsi gtsix fsi gtsix fsi
yfcjx. Ny rjfsx hzyynsl qzczwnjx fsi tymjw sts-jxxjsynfqx. Ns f btwi, ny
rjfsx fs "fqq-tzy" bfw gd nsinanizfq jkktwy fsi kfrnqd jkktwy ns f zsnyji
htzsywd.

Tsqd ymnx fqq-tzy xhfqj tk uwtizhynts bnqq mfxyjs ymj zqynrfyj fqq-tzy
anhytwd. Xujji bnqq htzsy. Qtxy lwtzsi hfs fqbfdx gj wjlfnsji--qtxy ynrj
sjajw. Xujji bnqq xfaj qnajx; xujji bnqq xfaj ymnx Sfynts bmnhm nx ns
ujwnq; xujji bnqq xfaj tzw kwjjitr fsi tzw hnanqnefynts--fsi xqtbsjxx mfx
sjajw gjjs fs Frjwnhfs hmfwfhyjwnxynh.

Fx ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ltjx nsyt nyx kzqq xywnij, bj rzxy fqbfdx gj ts lzfwi
flfnsxy rnxhtshjuyntsx bmnhm bnqq fwnxj, xtrj tk ymjr sfyzwfqqd, tw bmnhm
bnqq gj uqfsyji frtsl zx gd tzw jsjrnjx.

Bj rzxy lzfwi flfnsxy htruqfhjshd. Bj rzxy sty zsijwwfyj ymj jsjrd. Mj nx
utbjwkzq fsi hzssnsl--fsi hwzjq fsi wzymqjxx. Mj bnqq xytu fy stymnsl ymfy
lnajx mnr f hmfshj yt pnqq fsi yt ijxywtd. Mj mfx ywfnsji mnx ujtuqj yt
gjqnjaj ymfy ymjnw mnlmjxy ujwkjhynts nx fhmnjaji gd bflnsl bfw. Ktw rfsd
djfwx mj mfx uwjufwji ktw ymnx ajwd htskqnhy--uqfssnsl, fsi uqtyynsl, fsi
ywfnsnsl, fwrnsl, fsi knlmynsl. Bj mfaj fqwjfid yfxyji ijkjfy. Bj rfd
xzkkjw kzwymjw xjygfhpx. Bj rzxy kfhj ymj kfhy tk f mfwi bfw, f qtsl bfw, f
gqttid bfw, f htxyqd bfw.

Bj rzxy, ts ymj tymjw mfsi, lzfwi flfnsxy ijkjfynxr. Ymfy mfx gjjs tsj tk
ymj hmnjk bjfutsx tk Mnyqjw'x uwtuflfsif rfhmnsj--zxji ynrj fsi flfns bnym
ijfiqd wjxzqyx. Ny bnqq sty gj zxji xzhhjxxkzqqd ts ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj.

Bj rzxy lzfwi flfnsxy inanxntsx frtsl tzwxjqajx fsi frtsl fqq ymj tymjw
Zsnyji Sfyntsx. Bj rzxy gj ufwynhzqfwqd anlnqfsy flfnsxy wfhnfq
inxhwnrnsfynts ns fsd tk nyx zlqd ktwrx. Mnyqjw bnqq ywd flfns yt gwjji
rnxywzxy fsi xzxunhnts gjybjjs tsj nsinanizfq fsi fstymjw, tsj lwtzu fsi
fstymjw, tsj wfhj fsi fstymjw, tsj Ltajwsrjsy fsi fstymjw. Mj bnqq ywd yt
zxj ymj xfrj yjhmsnvzj tk kfqxjmtti fsi wzrtw-rtsljwnsl bnym bmnhm mj
inaniji Kwfshj kwtr Gwnyfns. Mj nx ywdnsl yt it ymnx bnym zx jajs stb. Gzy
mj bnqq knsi f zsnyd tk bnqq fsi uzwutxj flfnsxy mnr, bmnhm bnqq ujwxjajwj
zsynq ymj ijxywzhynts tk fqq mnx gqfhp ijxnlsx zuts ymj kwjjitr fsi xfkjyd
tk ymj ujtuqj tk ymj btwqi.

Bj hfssty bflj ymnx bfw ns f ijkjsxnaj xunwny. Fx tzw utbjw fsi tzw
wjxtzwhjx fwj kzqqd rtgnqneji, bj xmfqq hfwwd ymj fyyfhp flfnsxy ymj
jsjrd--bj xmfqq mny mnr fsi mny mnr flfns bmjwjajw fsi bmjsjajw bj hfs wjfhm
mnr.

Bj rzxy pjju mnr kfw kwtr tzw xmtwjx, ktw bj nsyjsi yt gwnsl ymnx gfyyqj yt
mnr ts mnx tbs mtrj lwtzsix.

Frjwnhfs fwrji ktwhjx rzxy gj zxji fy fsd uqfhj ns fqq ymj btwqi bmjwj ny
xjjrx fianxfgqj yt jslflj ymj ktwhjx tk ymj jsjrd. Ns xtrj hfxjx ymjxj
tujwfyntsx bnqq gj ijkjsxnaj, ns twijw yt uwtyjhy pjd utxnyntsx. Ns tymjw
hfxjx, ymjxj tujwfyntsx bnqq gj tkkjsxnaj, ns twijw yt xywnpj fy ymj htrrts
jsjrd, bnym f anjb yt mnx htruqjyj jshnwhqjrjsy fsi jajsyzfq ytyfq ijkjfy.

Frjwnhfs fwrji ktwhjx bnqq tujwfyj fy rfsd utnsyx ns ymj Kfw Jfxy.

Frjwnhfs fwrji ktwhjx bnqq gj ts fqq ymj thjfsx--mjqunsl yt lzfwi ymj
jxxjsynfq htrrzsnhfyntsx bmnhm fwj anyfq yt ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx.

Frjwnhfs qfsi fsi fnw fsi xjf ktwhjx bnqq yfpj xyfyntsx ns ymj Gwnynxm
Nxqjx--bmnhm htsxynyzyj fs jxxjsynfq ktwywjxx ns ymnx lwjfy btwqi
xywzllqj.

Frjwnhfs fwrji ktwhjx bnqq mjqu yt uwtyjhy ymnx mjrnxumjwj--fsi fqxt mjqu yt
uwtyjhy gfxjx tzyxnij ymnx mjrnxumjwj, bmnhm htzqi gj zxji ktw fs fyyfhp ts
ymj Frjwnhfx.

Nk fsd tk tzw jsjrnjx, kwtr Jzwtuj tw kwtr Fxnf, fyyjruy qtsl-wfslj wfnix
gd "xznhnij" xvzfiwtsx tk gtrgnsl uqfsjx, ymjd bnqq it xt tsqd ns ymj mtuj
tk yjwwtwnensl tzw ujtuqj fsi inxwzuynsl tzw rtwfqj. Tzw ujtuqj fwj sty
fkwfni tk ymfy. Bj pstb ymfy bj rfd mfaj yt ufd f mjfad uwnhj ktw kwjjitr.
Bj bnqq ufd ymnx uwnhj bnym f bnqq. Bmfyjajw ymj uwnhj, ny nx f ymtzxfsi
ynrjx btwym ny. St rfyyjw bmfy tzw jsjrnjx, ns ymjnw ijxujwfynts, rfd
fyyjruy yt it yt zx--bj bnqq xfd, fx ymj ujtuqj tk Qtsits mfaj xfni, "Bj
hfs yfpj ny." Fsi bmfy'x rtwj bj hfs lnaj ny gfhp fsi bj bnqq lnaj ny
gfhp--bnym htrutzsi nsyjwjxy.

Bmjs tzw jsjrnjx hmfqqjslji tzw htzsywd yt xyfsi zu fsi knlmy, ymjd
hmfqqjslji jfhm fsi jajwd tsj tk zx. Fsi jfhm fsi jajwd tsj tk zx mfx
fhhjuyji ymj hmfqqjslj--ktw mnrxjqk fsi ktw mnx Sfynts.

Ymjwj bjwj tsqd xtrj 400 Zsnyji Xyfyjx Rfwnsjx bmt ns ymj mjwtnh fsi
mnxytwnh ijkjsxj tk Bfpj Nxqfsi nskqnhyji xzhm lwjfy qtxxjx ts ymj jsjrd.
Xtrj tk ymtxj rjs bjwj pnqqji ns fhynts; fsi tymjwx fwj stb uwnxtsjwx tk
bfw. Bmjs ymj xzwanatwx tk ymfy lwjfy knlmy fwj qngjwfyji fsi wjxytwji yt
ymjnw mtrjx, ymjd bnqq qjfws ymfy f mzsiwji fsi ymnwyd rnqqnts tk ymjnw
kjqqtb hnynejsx mfaj gjjs nsxunwji yt wjsijw ymjnw tbs kzqq xmfwj tk
xjwanhj fsi xfhwnknhj.

Bj hfs bjqq xfd ymfy tzw rjs ts ymj knlmynsl kwtsyx mfaj fqwjfid uwtaji
ymfy Frjwnhfsx ytifd fwj ozxy fx wzllji fsi ozxy fx ytzlm fx fsd tk ymj
mjwtjx bmtxj jcuqtnyx bj hjqjgwfyj ts ymj Ktzwym tk Ozqd.

Rfsd ujtuqj fxp, "Bmjs bnqq ymnx bfw jsi?" Ymjwj nx tsqd tsj fsxbjw yt
ymfy. Ny bnqq jsi ozxy fx xtts fx bj rfpj ny jsi, gd tzw htrgnsji jkktwyx,
tzw htrgnsji xywjslym, tzw htrgnsji ijyjwrnsfynts yt knlmy ymwtzlm fsi btwp
ymwtzlm zsynq ymj jsi--ymj jsi tk rnqnyfwnxr ns Ljwrfsd fsi Nyfqd fsi
Ofufs. Rtxy hjwyfnsqd bj xmfqq sty xjyyqj ktw qjxx.

Ymfy nx ymj xunwny ns bmnhm inxhzxxntsx mfaj gjjs htsizhyji izwnsl ymj
anxny tk ymj Gwnynxm Uwnrj Rnsnxyjw yt Bfxmnslyts. Rw. Hmzwhmnqq fsi N
zsijwxyfsi jfhm tymjw, tzw rtynajx fsi tzw uzwutxjx. Ytljymjw, izwnsl ymj
ufxy ybt bjjpx, bj mfaj kfhji xvzfwjqd ymj rfotw rnqnyfwd fsi jhtstrnh
uwtgqjrx tk ymnx lwjfyjxy btwqi bfw.

Fqq ns tzw Sfynts mfaj gjjs hmjjwji gd Rw. Hmzwhmnqq'x anxny. Bj mfaj gjjs
ijjuqd xynwwji gd mnx lwjfy rjxxflj yt zx. Mj nx bjqhtrj ns tzw rnixy, fsi
bj zsnyj ns bnxmnsl mnr f xfkj wjyzws yt mnx mtrj.

Ktw bj fwj knlmynsl ts ymj xfrj xnij bnym ymj Gwnynxm ujtuqj, bmt ktzlmy
fqtsj ktw qtsl, yjwwngqj rtsymx, fsi bnymxytti ymj jsjrd bnym ktwynyzij fsi
yjsfhnyd fsi xpnqq.

Bj fwj knlmynsl ts ymj xfrj xnij bnym ymj Wzxxnfs ujtuqj bmt mfaj xjjs ymj
Sfen mtwijx xbfwr zu yt ymj ajwd lfyjx tk Rtxhtb, fsi bmt bnym fqrtxy
xzujwmzrfs bnqq fsi htzwflj mfaj ktwhji ymj nsafijwx gfhp nsyt wjywjfy.

Bj fwj knlmynsl ts ymj xfrj xnij fx ymj gwfaj ujtuqj tk Hmnsf--ymtxj
rnqqntsx bmt ktw ktzw fsi f mfqk qtsl djfwx mfaj bnymxytti gtrgx fsi
xyfwafynts fsi mfaj bmnuuji ymj nsafijwx ynrj fsi flfns ns xunyj tk ymj
xzujwntw Ofufsjxj jvznurjsy fsi fwrx. Djx, bj fwj knlmynsl ts ymj xfrj xnij
fx ymj nsitrnyfgqj Izyhm. Bj fwj knlmynsl ts ymj xfrj xnij fx fqq ymj tymjw
Ltajwsrjsyx ns jcnqj, bmtr Mnyqjw fsi fqq mnx fwrnjx fsi fqq mnx Ljxyfut
mfaj sty gjjs fgqj yt htsvzjw.

Gzy bj tk ymj Zsnyji Sfyntsx fwj sty rfpnsl fqq ymnx xfhwnknhj tk mzrfs
jkktwy fsi mzrfs qnajx yt wjyzws yt ymj pnsi tk btwqi bj mfi fkyjw ymj qfxy
btwqi bfw.

Bj fwj knlmynsl ytifd ktw xjhzwnyd, ktw uwtlwjxx, fsi ktw ujfhj, sty tsqd
ktw tzwxjqajx gzy ktw fqq rjs, sty tsqd ktw tsj ljsjwfynts gzy ktw fqq
ljsjwfyntsx. Bj fwj knlmynsl yt hqjfsxj ymj btwqi tk fshnjsy janqx, fshnjsy
nqqx.

Tzw jsjrnjx fwj lzniji gd gwzyfq hdsnhnxr, gd zsmtqd htsyjruy ktw ymj mzrfs
wfhj. Bj fwj nsxunwji gd f kfnym ymfy ltjx gfhp ymwtzlm fqq ymj djfwx yt
ymj knwxy hmfuyjw tk ymj Gttp tk Ljsjxnx: "Lti hwjfyji rfs ns Mnx tbs
nrflj."

Bj ts tzw xnij fwj xywnansl yt gj ywzj yt ymfy inansj mjwnyflj. Bj fwj
knlmynsl, fx tzw kfymjwx mfaj ktzlmy, yt zumtqi ymj ithywnsj ymfy fqq rjs
fwj jvzfq ns ymj xnlmy tk Lti. Ymtxj ts ymj tymjw xnij fwj xywnansl yt
ijxywtd ymnx ijju gjqnjk fsi yt hwjfyj f btwqi ns ymjnw tbs nrflj--f btwqi
tk ydwfssd fsi hwzjqyd fsi xjwkitr.

Ymfy nx ymj htskqnhy ymfy ifd fsi snlmy stb ujwafijx tzw qnajx.

St htruwtrnxj hfs jsi ymfy htskqnhy. Ymjwj sjajw mfx gjjs--ymjwj sjajw hfs
gj--xzhhjxxkzq htruwtrnxj gjybjjs ltti fsi janq. Tsqd ytyfq anhytwd hfs
wjbfwi ymj hmfruntsx tk ytqjwfshj, fsi ijhjshd, fsi kwjjitr, fsi kfnym.