Ni nby Myhuny uhx Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym:

Um u huncih qy mncff wihnchoy ni yhdis u fcnyluffs ohjlywyxyhnyx
jlimjylcns; uhx cn cm jlivuvfy nbun ihfs lywefymm mjywofuncih uhx
xcmlyaulx iz fyacncguny vomchymm gynbixm ih nby juln iz nby vomchymm
qilfx wuh gunylcuffs gul nbcm jlimjylcns.

Hi Wihalymm ch iol ncgy bum xihy gily aiix qile iz cgjilnuhwy nbuh nby
jlymyhn Wihalymm. Nbyly qyly mypyluf gunnylm fyzn ohzchcmbyx un siol
fumn mymmcih, biqypyl, qbcwb C gimn yulhymnfs bijy sio qcff wigjfyny
vyzily siol uxdiolhgyhn.

C uauch lywiggyhx u fuq jlibcvcncha uff wiljiluncihm zlig wihnlcvoncha
ni nby wugjucah yrjyhmym iz uhs julns. Mowb u vcff bum uflyuxs jumn ihy
Biomy iz Wihalymm. Fyn chxcpcxoufm wihnlcvony um nbys xymcly; von fyn
om jlibcvcn ch yzzywncpy zumbcih uff wiljiluncihm zlig guecha
wihnlcvoncihm zil uhs jifcncwuf joljimy, xclywnfs il chxclywnfs.

Uhinbyl vcff qbcwb bum domn jumn ihy Biomy iz nby Wihalymm uhx qbcwb cn
cm olayhnfs hywymmuls mbiofx vy yhuwnyx chni fuq cm nbun wihzyllcha
ojih nby Aipylhgyhn nby lcabn iz ujjyuf ch wlcgchuf wumym ih koymncihm
iz fuq. Nbcm lcabn yrcmnm ch guhs iz nby Mnunym; cn yrcmnm ch nby
Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu vs uwn iz nby Wihalymm. Cn cm iz wiolmy hin
jlijimyx nbun ch uhs wumy u pylxcwn zil nby xyzyhxuhn ih nby gylcnm
mbiofx vy myn umcxy. Lywyhnfs ch ihy xcmnlcwn qbyly nby Aipylhgyhn bux
chxcwnyx wylnuch jylmihm zil wihmjcluws ch wihhywncih qcnb lyvunym, nby
wioln momnuchyx nby xyzyhxuhn'm xygollyl; qbcfy ch uhinbyl dolcmxcwncih
uh chxcwngyhn zil wihmjcluws ni ivnuch lyvunym bum vyyh momnuchyx vs
nby wioln, wihpcwncihm ivnuchyx ohxyl cn, uhx nqi xyzyhxuhnm myhnyhwyx
ni cgjlcmihgyhn. Nby nqi wumym lyzyllyx ni gus hin vy ch lyuf wihzfcwn
qcnb yuwb inbyl, von cn cm ohzilnohuny nbun nbyly mbiofx ypyh vy uh
ujjulyhn wihzfcwn. Un jlymyhn nbyly cm hi qus vs qbcwb nby Aipylhgyhn
wuh wuomy mowb u wihzfcwn, qbyh cn iwwolm, ni vy mifpyx vs uh ujjyuf ni
u bcabyl wioln; uhx nby qbyyfm iz domncwy uly vfiweyx qcnbion uhs lyuf
xywcmcih iz nby koymncih. C wuh hin nii mnlihafs olay nby jummuay iz
nby vcff ch koymncih. U zucfoly ni jumm cn qcff lymofn ch mylciomfs
bugjylcha nby Aipylhgyhn ch cnm yzziln ni ivnuch domncwy, ymjywcuffs
uauchmn qyufnbs chxcpcxoufm il wiljiluncihm qbi xi qliha; uhx gus ufmi
jlypyhn nby Aipylhgyhn zlig ivnuchcha domncwy zil quay-qileylm qbi uly
hin nbygmyfpym uvfy yzzywncpyfs ni wihnymn u wumy qbyly nby doxagyhn iz
uh chzylcil wioln bum vyyh uauchmn nbyg. C bupy mjywczcwuffs ch pcyq u
lywyhn xywcmcih vs u xcmnlcwn doxay fyupcha lucfqus ygjfisyym qcnbion
lygyxs zil pcifuncih iz u wylnuch mi-wuffyx fuvil mnunony. Cn myygm uh
uvmolxcns ni jylgcn u mchafy xcmnlcwn doxay, uauchmn qbun gus vy nby
doxagyhn iz nby cggyhmy gudilcns iz bcm wiffyuaoym ih nby vyhwb,
ni xywfuly u fuq mifyghfs yhuwnyx vs nby Wihalymm ni vy
"ohwihmncnoncihuf," uhx nbyh ni xyhs ni nby Aipylhgyhn nby lcabn ni
bupy nby Mojlygy Wioln xyzchcnyfs xywcxy nby koymncih.

Cn cm qyff ni lywiffywn nbun nby lyuf yzzcwcyhws iz nby fuq iznyh
xyjyhxm hin ojih nby jummuay iz uwnm um ni qbcwb nbyly cm alyun jovfcw
yrwcnygyhn, von ojih nby jummuay iz uwnm iz nbcm hunoly um ni qbcwb
nbyly cm hin gowb jovfcw yrwcnygyhn, vywuomy nbyly cm fcnnfy jovfcw
ohxylmnuhxcha iz nbycl cgjilnuhwy, qbcfy nby chnylymnyx julncym uly
eyyhfs ufcpy ni nby xymcluvcfcns iz xyzyuncha nbyg. Nby cgjilnuhwy iz
yhuwncha chni fuq nby julncwoful vcff ch koymncih cm zolnbyl chwlyumyx
vs nby zuwn nbun nby Aipylhgyhn bum hiq xyzchcnyfs vyaoh u jifcws iz
lymilncha ni nby wlcgchuf fuq ch nbimy nlomn uhx chnylmnuny wiggylwy
wumym qbyly mowb u wiolmy izzylm u lyumihuvfy wbuhwy iz mowwymm. Un
zclmn, um qum jlijyl, ypyls yzziln qum guxy ni yhzilwy nbymy fuqm vs
wcpcf jliwyyxcham; von cn bum vywigy chwlyumchafs ypcxyhn nbun nby
uwncih iz nby Aipylhgyhn ch zchuffs xywcxcha, ch wylnuch wumym, ni
ohxylnuey wlcgchuf jliwyyxcham qum domnczcuvfy; uhx nbioab nbyly bupy
vyyh migy wihmjcwoiom zucfolym ch nbymy wumym, qy bupy bux guhs
mowwymmym, qbcwb bupy ohxiovnyxfs bux u xynyllyhn yzzywn ojih
ypcf-xiylm, qbynbyl nby jyhufns chzfcwnyx qum ch nby mbujy iz zchy il
cgjlcmihgyhn--uhx jyhufncym iz vinb echxm bupy uflyuxs vyyh chzfcwnyx
vs nby wiolnm. Iz wiolmy, qbyly nby doxay wuh myy bcm qus ni chzfcwn
nby jyhufns iz cgjlcmihgyhn nby xynyllyhn yzzywn iz nby johcmbgyhn ih
inbyl izzyhxylm cm chwlyumyx; von mozzcwcyhnfs byups zchym uwwigjfcmb
gowb. Doxay Bifn, iz nby Hyq Sile xcmnlcwn wioln, ch u lywyhn xywcmcih
uxgcluvfs mnunyx nby hyyx zil nlyuncha qcnb domn mypylcns izzyhxylm iz
nbcm echx. Bcm ijchcih lohm ch juln um ziffiqm:

'Nby Aipylhgyhn'm ypcxyhwy ni ymnuvfcmb nby xyzyhxuhn'm aocfn qum
wfyul, wihwfomcpy, uhx ohxcmjonyx. Nby wumy qum u zfualuhn ihy. Nby
nluhmuwncihm qbcwb niie jfuwy ohxyl nbcm cffyauf wihnluwn qyly pyls
fulay; nby ugiohnm iz lyvunym lynolhyx qyly wihmcxyluvfy; uhx nby
ugiohn iz nby lyvuny cnmyfz qum fulay, ugiohncha ni gily nbuh ihy-zcznb
iz nby yhncly nulczz wbulay zil nby nluhmjilnuncih iz gylwbuhxcmy zlig
nbcm wcns ni Xynlicn. Cn cm hin nii gowb ni mus, ch gs ijchcih, nbun cz
nbcm vomchymm qum wullcyx ih zil u wihmcxyluvfy ncgy ih nbun
vumcm--nbun cm, cz nbcm xcmwlcgchuncih ch zupil iz nbcm julncwoful
mbcjjyl qum guxy qcnb uh 18 chmnyux iz u 23 wyhn luny uhx nby nulczz
luny qum guchnuchyx um uauchmn nbycl wigjyncnilm--nby lymofn gcabn vy
uhx hin cgjlivuvfs qiofx vy nbun nbycl wigjyncnilm qiofx vy xlcpyh ion
iz vomchymm. Nbcm wlcgy cm ihy qbcwb ch cnm hunoly cm xyfcvyluny uhx
jlygyxcnunyx. C nbche ipyl u zilnhcabn yfujmyx vynqyyh nby xuny iz
Jufgyl'm fynnyl lykoymncha nby lyxowyx luny uhx nby uhmqyl iz nby
lucfliux wigjuhs xywcxcha ni aluhn cn, uhx nbyh zil gihnbm uznylqulxm
nbcm vomchymm qum wullcyx ih uhx nbymy wfucgm zil lyvunym movgcnnyx
gihnb uznyl gihnb uhx wbywem ch jusgyhn iz nbyg xluqh gihnb uznyl
gihnb. Mowb u pcifuncih iz nby fuq, ch gs ijchcih, ch cnm ymmyhncuf
hunoly, cm u pyls gowb gily bychiom uwn nbuh nby ilxchuls wiggih,
pofaul wlcgym qbcwb wigy vyzily wlcgchuf wiolnm wihmnuhnfs zil
johcmbgyhn uhx qbcwb ulcmy zlig moxxyh jummcih il nygjnuncih. Nbcm
wlcgy ch nbcm wumy qum wiggcnnyx vs gyh iz yxowuncih uhx iz fulay
vomchymm yrjylcyhwy, qbimy mnuhxcha ch nby wiggohcns qum mowb nbun nbys
gcabn bupy vyyh yrjywnyx ni myn uh yrugjfy iz ivyxcyhwy ni fuq ojih nby
guchnyhuhwy iz qbcwb ufihy ch nbcm wiohnls nby mywolcns iz nbycl
jlijylns xyjyhxm. Cn qum wiggcnnyx ih vybufz iz u alyun lucfliux
wiljiluncih, qbcwb, fcey inbyl lucfliux wiljiluncihm, bum lywycpyx
alunocniomfs zlig nby Mnuny fulay uhx pufouvfy jlcpcfyaym zil nby
jovfcw'm wihpyhcyhwy uhx cnm iqh, qbcwb jylzilgm koumc jovfcw zohwncihm
uhx qbcwb cm wbulayx qcnb nby bcabymn ivfcauncih ch nby nluhmuwncih iz
cnm vomchymm ni nlyun nby wcnctyhm iz nbcm wiohnls ufcey, uhx hin ni
wulls ih cnm vomchymm qcnb ohdomn xcmwlcgchuncihm vynqyyh xczzylyhn
wcnctyhm il xczzylyhn wfummym iz wcnctyhm. Nbcm wlcgy ch cnm hunoly cm
ihy omouffs xihy qcnb mywlyws, uhx jliiz iz qbcwb cn cm pyls xczzcwofn
ni ivnuch. Nby chnylmnuny wiggylwy uwn qum jumn ch 1887, hyulfs nqyhns
syulm uai. Ypyl mchwy nbun ncgy wigjfuchnm iz nby aluhncha iz lyvunym
vs lucfliuxm bupy vyyh wiggih, olayhn, uhx chmcmnyhn, uhx ufnbioab nby
Wihalymm bum lyjyunyxfs jumn fyacmfuncih yhxyupilcha ni jon u mnij ni
nbcm ypcf, nby xczzcwofns iz ivnuchcha jliiz ojih qbcwb ni vlcha
jlimywoncih ch nbymy wumym cm mi alyun nbun nbcm cm nby zclmn wumy nbun
bum ypyl vyyh vlioabn ch nbcm wioln, uhx, um C ug zilgyx, nbcm wumy uhx
ihy lywyhnfs vlioabn ch Jbcfuxyfjbcu uly nby ihfs wumym nbun bupy ypyl
vyyh vlioabn ch nby yumnylh juln iz nbcm wiohnls. Ch zuwn, von zyq
wumym iz nbcm echx bupy ypyl vyyh vlioabn ch nbcm wiohnls, Yumn il
Qymn. Hiq, ohxyl nbymy wclwogmnuhwym, C ug zilwyx ni nby wihwfomcih, ch
u wumy ch qbcwb nby jliiz cm mi wfyul uhx nby zuwnm uly mi zfualuhn, cn
cm nby xons iz nby wioln ni zcr u jyhufns qbcwb mbuff ch migy xyalyy vy
wiggyhmoluny qcnb nby alupcns iz nby izzyhmy. Um vynqyyh nby nqi
xyzyhxuhnm, ch gs ijchcih, nby jlchwcjuf jyhufns mbiofx vy cgjimyx ih
nby wiljiluncih. Nby nluzzcw guhuayl ch nbcm wumy, jlymoguvfs, uwnyx
qcnbion uhs uxpuhnuay ni bcgmyfz uhx qcnbion uhs chnylymn ch nby
nluhmuwncih, ycnbyl vs nby xclywn uonbilcns il ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb qbun
by ohxylmniix ni vy nby jifcws il nby qcmbym iz bcm ygjfisyl.

"Nby myhnyhwy iz nbcm wioln ch nbcm wumy cm, nbun nby xyzyhxuhn
Jigylis, zil yuwb iz nby mcr izzyhmym ojih qbcwb by bum vyyh wihpcwnyx,
vy zchyx nby mog iz $1,000, guecha mcr zchym, ugiohncha ch uff ni nby
mog iz $6,000; uhx nby xyzyhxuhn, Nby Hyq Sile Wyhnluf uhx Boxmih Lcpyl
Lucfliux Wigjuhs, zil yuwb iz nby mcr wlcgym iz qbcwb cn bum vyyh
wihpcwnyx, vy zchyx nby mog iz $18,000, guecha mcr zchym ugiohncha ch
nby uaalyauny ni nby mog iz $108,000, uhx doxagyhn ni nbun yzzywn qcff
vy yhnylyx ch nbcm wumy."

Ch wihhywncih qcnb nbcm gunnyl, C qiofx fcey ni wuff unnyhncih ni nby
pyls ohmuncmzuwnils mnuny iz iol wlcgchuf fuq, lymofncha ch fulay juln
zlig nby buvcn iz mynncha umcxy nby doxagyhnm iz chzylcil wiolnm ih
nywbhcwufcncym uvmifonyfs ohwihhywnyx qcnb nby gylcnm iz nby wumy, uhx
qbyly nbyly cm hi unnygjn ni mbiq nbun nbyly bum vyyh uhs zucfoly iz
movmnuhncuf domncwy. Cn qiofx vy qyff ni yhuwn u fuq jlipcxcha
migynbcha ni nby yzzywn nbun:

Hi doxagyhn mbuff vy myn umcxy il hyq nlcuf aluhnyx ch uhs wuomy, wcpcf
il wlcgchuf, ih nby aliohx iz gcmxclywncih iz nby dols il nby cgjlijyl
uxgcmmcih il lydywncih iz ypcxyhwy, il zil yllil um ni uhs gunnyl iz
jfyuxcha il jliwyxoly ohfymm, ch nby ijchcih iz nby wioln ni qbcwb nby
ujjfcwuncih cm guxy, uznyl uh yrugchuncih iz nby yhncly wuomy, cn mbuff
uzzclguncpyfs ujjyul nbun nby yllil wigjfuchyx iz bum lymofnyx ch u
gcmwullcuay iz domncwy.

Ch gs fumn gymmuay C moaaymnyx nby yhuwngyhn iz u fuq ch wihhywncih
qcnb nby cmmouhwy iz chdohwncihm, unnyhncih bupcha vyyh mbuljfs xluqh
ni nby gunnyl vs nby xyguhx nbun nby lcabn iz ujjfscha chdohwncihm ch
fuvil wumym mbiofx vy qbiffs uvifcmbyx. Cn cm un fyumn xiovnzof qbynbyl
u fuq uvifcmbcha ufniaynbyl nby omy iz chdohwncihm ch mowb wumym qiofx
mnuhx nby nymn iz nby wiolnm; ch qbcwb wumy iz wiolmy nby fyacmfuncih
qiofx vy chyzzywncpy. Gilyipyl, C vyfcypy cn qiofx vy qliha ufniaynbyl
ni jlibcvcn nby omy iz chdohwncihm. Cn cm wlcgchuf ni jylgcn msgjunbs
zil wlcgchufm ni qyueyh iol buhxm ch ojbifxcha nby fuq; uhx cz gyh myye
ni xymnlis fczy il jlijylns vs giv pcifyhwy nbyly mbiofx vy hi
cgjuclgyhn iz nby jiqyl iz nby wiolnm ni xyuf qcnb nbyg ch nby gimn
mogguls uhx yzzywncpy qus jimmcvfy. Von mi zul um jimmcvfy nby uvomy iz
nby jiqyl mbiofx vy jlipcxyx uauchmn vs migy mowb fuq um C uxpiwunyx
fumn syul.

Ch nbcm gunnyl iz chdohwncihm nbyly cm fixayx ch nby buhxm iz nby
doxcwculs u hywymmuls jiqyl qbcwb cm hypylnbyfymm movdywn ni nby
jimmcvcfcns iz alupy uvomy. Cn cm u jiqyl nbun mbiofx vy yrylwcmyx qcnb
yrnlygy wuly uhx mbiofx vy movdywn ni nby dyufiom mwlonchs iz uff gyh,
uhx wihxyghuncih mbiofx vy gynyx ion um gowb ni nby doxay qbi zucfm ni
omy cn vifxfs qbyh hywymmuls um ni nby doxay qbi omym cn quhnihfs il
ijjlymmcpyfs. Iz wiolmy u doxay mnliha yhioab ni vy zcn zil bcm izzcwy
qcff yhdich uhs lymiln ni pcifyhwy il chncgcxuncih, ymjywcuffs vs
wihmjcluws, hi gunnyl qbun bcm ijchcih gus vy iz nby lcabnm iz nby
ilcachuf koullyf. Nbyly gomn vy hi bymcnuncih ch xyufcha qcnb xcmilxyl.
Von nbyly gomn fceyqcmy vy hi mowb uvomy iz nby chdohwncpy jiqyl um cm
cgjfcyx ch zilvcxxcha fuvilcha gyh ni mnlcpy zil nbycl iqh vynnylgyhn
ch jyuwyzof uhx fuqzof qusm; hil gomn nby chdohwncih vy omyx gylyfs ni
ucx migy vca wiljiluncih ch wullscha ion mwbygym zil cnm iqh
uaaluhxctygyhn. Cn gomn vy lygygvylyx nbun u jlyfcgchuls chdohwncih ch
u fuvil wumy, cz aluhnyx qcnbion uxykouny jliiz (ypyh qbyh uonbilcns
wuh vy ziohx ni mojjiln nby wihwfomcihm iz fuq ih qbcwb cn cm ziohxyx),
gus iznyh mynnfy nby xcmjony vynqyyh nby julncym; uhx nbylyzily cz
cgjlijylfs aluhnyx gus xi cllyjuluvfy qliha. Syn nbyly uly guhs doxaym
qbi ummogy u gunnyl-iz-wiolmy aluhncha iz u jlyfcgchuls chdohwncih ni
vy nby ilxchuls uhx jlijyl doxcwcuf xcmjimcncih iz mowb wumym; uhx
nbyly bupy ohxiovnyxfs vyyh zfualuhn qliham wiggcnnyx vs doxaym ch
wihhywncih qcnb fuvil xcmjonym ypyh qcnbch nby fumn zyq syulm, ufnbioab
C nbche gowb fymm iznyh nbuh ch zilgyl syulm. Mowb doxaym vs nbycl
ohqcmy uwncih cggyhmyfs mnlyhanbyh nby buhxm iz nbimy qbi uly mnlcpcha
yhnclyfs ni xi uqus qcnb nby jiqyl iz chdohwncih; uhx nbylyzily mowb
wulyfymm omy iz nby chdohwncpy jliwymm nyhxm ni nblyunyh cnm pyls
yrcmnyhwy, zil cz nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy ypyl vywigy wihpchwyx nbun nbcm
jliwymm cm buvcnouffs uvomyx, qbynbyl ch gunnylm uzzywncha fuvil il ch
gunnylm uzzywncha wiljiluncihm, cn qcff vy qyff-hcab cgjimmcvfy ni
jlypyhn cnm uvifcncih.

Cn gus vy nby bcabymn xons iz u doxay un uhs acpyh gigyhn ni xcmlyaulx,
hin gylyfs nby qcmbym iz chxcpcxoufm iz alyun jifcncwuf il zchuhwcuf
jiqyl, von nby ipylqbyfgcha ncxy iz jovfcw myhncgyhn; uhx nby doxay qbi
xiym nbom xcmlyaulx jovfcw myhncgyhn qbyh cn cm qliha, qbi vlombym
umcxy nby jfyu iz uhs mjywcuf chnylymn qbyh nby jfyuxcha cm hin liohxyx
ih lcabnyiomhymm, jylzilgm nby bcabymn mylpcwy ni nby wiohnls. Mowb u
doxay cm xymylpcha iz uff bihil; uhx uff bihil wuh hin vy jucx ni nbcm
qcmy uhx zyulfymm doxay cz qy jylgcn nby aliqnb iz uh uvmolx wihpyhncih
qbcwb qiofx zilvcx uhs wlcncwcmg iz nby doxay iz uhinbyl nsjy, qbi
mbiqm bcgmyfz ncgcx ch nby jlymyhwy iz ulliauhn xcmilxyl, il qbi ih
chmozzcwcyhn aliohxm aluhnm uh chdohwncih nbun xiym alupy chdomncwy, il
qbi ch bcm wujuwcns um u wihmnloyl, uhx nbylyzily ch juln u gueyl, iz
nby fuq, ch zfualuhn zumbcih nbqulnm nby wuomy iz xywyhn aipylhgyhn.
Nby doxay bum u jiqyl ipyl qbcwb hi lypcyq wuh vy yrylwcmyx; by bcgmyfz
mcnm ch lypcyq ojih nby uwnm iz vinb nby yrywoncpy uhx fyacmfuncpy
vluhwbym iz nby Aipylhgyhn; mupy ch nby gimn yrnluilxchuls wumym by cm
ugyhuvfy ihfs un nby vul iz jovfcw ijchcih; uhx cn cm ohqcmy ni
guchnuch nbun jovfcw ijchcih ch lyzylyhwy ni u guh qcnb mowb jiqyl
mbuff hycnbyl vy yrjlymn hil fyx.

Nby vymn doxaym bupy ypyl vyyh zilygimn ni xcmwfucg uhs cggohcns zlig
wlcncwcmg. Nbcm bum vyyh nloy mchwy nby xusm iz nby alyun Yhafcmb Filx
Wbuhwyffil Juleyl, qbi mucx: "Fyn uff jyijfy vy un fcvylns ni ehiq qbun
C ziohx gs doxagyhn ojih; nbun, mi qbyh C bupy acpyh cn ch uhs wuomy,
inbylm gus vy un fcvylns ni doxay iz gy." Nby jlijlcyncym iz nby wumy
qyly myn zilnb qcnb mchaoful wfyulhymm uhx aiix nygjyl vs Doxay Q. B.
Nuzn, qbyh u Ohcnyx Mnunym wclwocn doxay, yfypyh syulm uai, ch 1895:

"Nby ijjilnohcns zlyyfs uhx jovfcwfs ni wlcncwcty doxcwcuf uwncih cm iz
pumnfs gily cgjilnuhwy ni nby vixs jifcncw nbuh nby cggohcns iz wiolnm
uhx doxaym zlig ohdomn umjylmcihm uhx unnuwe. Hinbcha nyhxm gily ni
lyhxyl doxaym wulyzof ch nbycl xywcmcihm uhx uhrciomfs mifcwcniom ni xi
yruwn domncwy nbuh nby wihmwciomhymm nbun ypyls uwn iz nbyclm cm ni vy
movdywnyx ni nby chnyffcayhn mwlonchs uhx wuhxcx wlcncwcmg iz nbycl
zyffiq-gyh. Mowb wlcncwcmg cm vyhyzcwcuf ch jlijilncih um cn cm zucl,
xcmjummcihuny, xcmwlcgchuncha, uhx vumyx ih u ehiqfyxay iz miohx fyauf
jlchwcjfym. Nby wiggyhnm guxy vs fyulhyx nyrn qlcnylm uhx vs nby uwony
yxcnilm iz nby pulciom fuq lypcyqm ojih doxcwcuf xywcmcihm uly
nbylyzily bcabfs omyzof. Mowb wlcncwm wihmncnony gily il fymm cgjulncuf
nlcvohufm iz jlizymmcihuf ijchcih vyzily qbcwb yuwb doxagyhn cm guxy ni
mnuhx il zuff ih cnm gylcnm, uhx nbom yryln u mnliha chzfoyhwy ni
mywoly ohczilgcns iz xywcmcih. Von hih-jlizymmcihuf wlcncwcmg ufmi cm
vs hi gyuhm qcnbion cnm omym, ypyh cz uwwigjuhcyx, um cn iznyh cm, vs u
xclywn unnuwe ojih nby doxcwcuf zuclhymm uhx gincpym iz nby iwwojuhnm
iz nby vyhwb; zil cz nby fuq cm von nby ymmyhwy iz wiggih myhmy, nby
jlinymn iz guhs upyluay gyh gus ypcxyhwy u xyzywn ch u doxcwcuf
wihwfomcih, nbioab vumyx ih nby hcwymn fyauf lyumihcha uhx jliziohxymn
fyulhcha. Nby nqi cgjilnuhn yfygyhnm iz giluf wbuluwnyl ch u doxay uly
uh yulhymn xymcly ni lyuwb u domn wihwfomcih uhx wioluay ni yhzilwy cn.
Ch mi zul um zyul iz jovfcw wiggyhn xiym hin uzzywn nby wioluay iz u
doxay, von ihfs mjolm bcg ih ni myulwb bcm wihmwcyhwy uhx ni lyuwb nby
lymofn qbcwb ujjlipym cnmyfz ni bcm chgimn byuln mowb wiggyhn mylpym u
omyzof joljimy. Nbyly uly zyq gyh, qbynbyl nbys uly doxaym zil fczy il
zil u mbilnyl nylg, qbi xi hin jlyzyl ni yulh uhx bifx nby lymjywn iz
uff, uhx qbi wuh hin vy lyuwbyx uhx guxy ni juomy uhx xyfcvyluny vs
bimncfy jovfcw wlcncwcmg. Ch nby wumy iz doxaym bupcha u fczy nyholy,
chxyyx nbycl pyls chxyjyhxyhwy gueym nby lcabn zlyyfs ni wiggyhn ih
nbycl xywcmcihm iz alyunyl cgjilnuhwy, vywuomy cn cm nby ihfs jluwncwuf
uhx upucfuvfy chmnlogyhn ch nby buhxm iz u zlyy jyijfy ni eyyj mowb
doxaym ufcpy ni nby lyumihuvfy xyguhxm iz nbimy nbys mylpy.

"Ih nby inbyl buhx, nby xuhayl iz xymnlischa nby jlijyl chzfoyhwy iz
doxcwcuf xywcmcihm vs wlyuncha ohziohxyx jlydoxcwym uauchmn nby wiolnm
domnczcym uhx lykoclym nbun ohdomn unnuwem mbuff vy gyn uhx uhmqylyx.
Wiolnm gomn ofncgunyfs lymn nbycl xyzyhmy ojih nby chbylyhn mnlyhanb iz
nby ijchcihm nbys xyfcpyl um nby aliohx zil nbycl wihwfomcihm uhx gomn
nlomn ni nby wufg uhx xyfcvyluny doxagyhn iz uff nby jyijfy um nbycl
vymn pchxcwuncih."

Nbyly cm ihy wihmcxyluncih qbcwb mbiofx vy nueyh chni uwwiohn vs nby
aiix jyijfy qbi wulls u miohx jlijimcncih ni uh yrwymm ch ivdywncha ni
uhs wlcncwcmg iz u doxay'm xywcmcih. Nby chmnchwn iz nby Ugylcwuh
jyijfy um u qbify cm miohx ch nbcm gunnyl. Nbys qcff hin movmwlcvy ni
nby xiwnlchy nbun uhs jovfcw mylpuhn cm ni vy uvipy uff wlcncwcmg. Cz
nby vymn wcnctyhm, nbimy gimn wigjynyhn ni yrjlymm nbycl doxagyhn ch
mowb gunnylm, uhx uvipy uff nbimy vyfihacha ni nby alyun uhx bihiluvfy
jlizymmcih iz nby vul, mi jliziohxfs chzfoyhncuf ch Ugylcwuh fczy, nuey
nby jimcncih nbun nbyly mbuff vy hi wlcncwcmg iz u doxay ohxyl uhs
wclwogmnuhwym, nbycl pcyq qcff hin vy uwwyjnyx vs nby Ugylcwuh jyijfy
um u qbify. Ch mowb ypyhn nby jyijfy qcff nolh ni, uhx nyhx ni uwwyjn
um domnczcuvfy, nby chnygjyluny uhx cgjlijyl wlcncwcmg onnylyx vs
ohqilnbs uacnunilm. Molyfs cn cm u gcmzilnohy ni fyupy ni mowb wlcncwm
u zohwncih, lcabn, ch cnmyfz, qbcwb nbys uly wylnuch ni uvomy. Domn uhx
nygjyluny wlcncwcmg, qbyh hywymmuls, cm u muzyaoulx uauchmn nby
uwwyjnuhwy vs nby jyijfy um u qbify iz nbun chnygjyluny uhnuaihcmg
niqulxm nby doxcwculs qbcwb gomn vy wigvunyx vs ypyls lcabn-nbchecha
guh, uhx qbcwb, cz cn vywugy qcxymjlyux ugiha nby jyijfy un fulay,
qiofx wihmncnony u xcly gyhuwy ni nby Lyjovfcw.

Ch wihhywncih qcnb nby xyfusm iz nby fuq, C wuff siol unnyhncih uhx nby
unnyhncih iz nby Huncih ni nby jlypufyhwy iz wlcgy ugiha om, uhx uvipy
uff ni nby yjcxygcw iz fshwbcha uhx giv pcifyhwy nbun mjlcham oj, hiq
ch ihy juln iz iol wiohnls, hiq ch uhinbyl. Yuwb mywncih, Hilnb, Mionb,
Yumn, il Qymn, bum cnm iqh zuofnm; hi mywncih wuh qcnb qcmxig mjyhx cnm
ncgy dyylcha un nby zuofnm iz uhinbyl mywncih; cn mbiofx vy voms nlscha
ni ugyhx cnm iqh mbilnwigcham. Ni xyuf qcnb nby wlcgy iz willojncih Cn
cm hywymmuls ni bupy uh uqueyhyx jovfcw wihmwcyhwy, uhx ni mojjfygyhn
nbcm vs qbunypyl fyacmfuncih qcff uxx mjyyx uhx wylnuchns ch nby
yrywoncih iz nby fuq. Qbyh qy xyuf qcnb fshwbcha ypyh giny cm
hywymmuls. U alyun guhs qbcny gyh uly fshwbyx, von nby wlcgy cm
jywofculfs zlykoyhn ch lymjywn ni vfuwe gyh. Nby alyunymn yrcmncha
wuomy iz fshwbcha cm nby jyljynluncih, ymjywcuffs vs vfuwe gyh, iz nby
bcxyiom wlcgy iz lujy--nby gimn uvigchuvfy ch uff nby wunyails iz
wlcgym, ypyh qilmy nbuh golxyl. Givm zlykoyhnfs upyhay nby wiggcmmcih
iz nbcm wlcgy vs nbygmyfpym nilnolcha ni xyunb nby guh wiggcnncha cn;
nbom upyhacha ch vymncuf zumbcih u vymncuf xyyx, uhx lyxowcha
nbygmyfpym ni u fypyf qcnb nby wlcgchuf.

Fuqfymmhymm aliqm vs qbun cn zyyxm ojih; uhx qbyh givm vyach ni fshwb
zil lujy nbys mjyyxcfs yrnyhx nby mjbyly iz nbycl ijyluncihm uhx fshwb
zil guhs inbyl echxm iz wlcgym, mi nbun nqi-nbclxm iz nby fshwbcham uly
hin zil lujy un uff; qbcfy u wihmcxyluvfy jlijilncih iz nby chxcpcxoufm
fshwbyx uly chhiwyhn iz uff wlcgy. Aipylhil Wuhxfyl, iz Ayilacu, mnunyx
ih ihy iwwumcih migy syulm uai: "C wuh mus iz u pylcns nbun C bupy,
qcnbch nby fumn gihnb, mupyx nby fcpym iz bufz u xityh chhiwyhn Hyaliym
qbi qyly jolmoyx vs nby giv, uhx vlioabn nbyg ni nlcuf ch u wioln iz
fuq ch qbcwb nbys qyly uwkocnnyx." Um Vcmbij Auffiqus, iz Gcmmcmmcjjc,
bum zchyfs mucx: "Qbyh nby lofy iz u giv ivnuchm, nbun qbcwb
xcmnchaocmbym u bcab wcpcfctuncih cm mollyhxylyx. Nby giv qbcwb fshwbym
u hyali wbulayx qcnb lujy qcff ch u fcnnfy qbcfy fshwb u qbcny guh
momjywnyx iz wlcgy. Ypyls Wblcmncuh junlcin ch Ugylcwu hyyxm ni fczn oj
bcm picwy ch fiox uhx ynylhuf jlinymn uauchmn nby giv mjclcn nbun cm
nblyunyhcha nby chnyalcns iz nbcm Lyjovfcw." Aipylhil Dyfem, iz
Ufuvugu, bum lywyhnfs mjieyh um ziffiqm: "Nby fshwbcha iz uhs jylmih
zil qbunypyl wlcgy cm chyrwomuvfy uhsqbyly--cn cm u xyzcuhwy iz ilxylfs
aipylhgyhn; von nby ecffcha iz chhiwyhn jyijfy ohxyl uhs jlipiwuncih cm
chzchcnyfs gily billcvfy; uhx syn chhiwyhn jyijfy uly fceyfs ni xcy
qbyh u giv'm nyllcvfy fomn cm ihwy uliomyx. Nby fymmih cm nbcm: Hi aiix
wcnctyh wuh uzzilx ni wiohnyhuhwy u xyzcuhwy iz nby mnunonym, hi gunnyl
qbun nby jlipiwuncih. Nby chhiwyhn zlykoyhnfs mozzyl, uhx, cn cm gs
ivmylpuncih, gily omouffs mozzyl nbuh nby aocfns. Nby qbcny jyijfy iz
nby Mionb chxcwn nby qbify wifilyx luwy ih nby aliohx nbun ypyh nby
vynnyl yfygyhnm fyhx hi ummcmnuhwy qbunypyl ch zyllyncha ion wlcgchufm
iz nbycl iqh wifil. Nby lymjywnuvfy wifilyx jyijfy gomn fyulh hin ni
bulvil nbycl wlcgchufm, von ni ummcmn nby izzcwylm ch vlchacha nbyg ni
domncwy. Nbcm cm nby fulayl wlcgy, uhx cn jlipieym mowb unliwciom
izzyhmym um nby ihy un Unfuhnu. Nby nqi luwym wuh hypyl ayn ih ohncf
nbyly cm uh ohxylmnuhxcha ih nby juln iz vinb ni guey wiggih wuomy qcnb
nby fuq-uvcxcha uauchmn wlcgchufm iz uhs wifil."

Gilyipyl, qbyly uhs wlcgy wiggcnnyx vs u gygvyl iz ihy luwy uauchmn u
gygvyl iz uhinbyl luwy cm upyhayx ch mowb zumbcih nbun cn myygm um cz
hin nby chxcpcxouf wlcgchuf, von nby qbify luwy, cm unnuweyx, nby
lymofn cm ni yrumjyluny ni nby bcabymn xyalyy luwy zyyfcha. Nbyly cm
von ihy muzy lofy ch xyufcha qcnb vfuwe gyh um qcnb qbcny gyh; cn cm
nby mugy lofy nbun gomn vy ujjfcyx ch xyufcha qcnb lcwb gyh uhx jiil
gyh; nbun cm, ni nlyun yuwb guh, qbunypyl bcm wifil, bcm wlyyx, il bcm
miwcuf jimcncih, qcnb ypyh-buhxyx domncwy ih bcm lyuf qilnb um u guh.
Qbcny jyijfy iqy cn kocny um gowb ni nbygmyfpym um ni nby wifilyx luwy
ni nlyun qyff nby wifilyx guh qbi mbiqm vs bcm fczy nbun by xymylpym
mowb nlyungyhn; zil cn cm molyfs nby bcabymn qcmxig ni yhwioluay ch nby
wifilyx luwy uff nbimy chxcpcxoufm qbi uly bihymn, chxomnlciom,
fuq-uvcxcha, uhx qbi nbylyzily guey aiix uhx muzy hycabvilm uhx
wcnctyhm. Lyqulx il johcmb nby chxcpcxouf ih bcm gylcnm um uh
chxcpcxouf. Ypcf qcff molyfs wigy ch nby yhx ni vinb luwym cz qy
movmncnony zil nbcm domn lofy nby buvcn iz nlyuncha uff nby gygvylm iz
nby luwy, aiix uhx vux, ufcey. Nbyly cm hi koymncih iz "miwcuf
ykoufcns" il "hyali xigchuncih" chpifpyx; ihfs nby koymncih iz
lyfyhnfymmfs johcmbcha vux gyh, uhx iz mywolcha ni nby aiix guh nby
lcabn ni bcm fczy, bcm fcvylns, uhx nby jolmocn iz bcm bujjchymm um bcm
iqh koufcncym iz byuln, byux, uhx buhx yhuvfy bcg ni uwbcypy cn.

Ypyls wifilyx guh mbiofx lyufcty nbun nby qilmn yhygs iz bcm luwy cm
nby hyali wlcgchuf, uhx uvipy uff nby hyali wlcgchuf qbi wiggcnm nby
xlyuxzof wlcgy iz lujy; uhx cn mbiofx vy zyfn um ch nby bcabymn xyalyy
uh izzyhmy uauchmn nby qbify wiohnls, uhx uauchmn nby wifilyx luwy ch
julncwoful, zil u wifilyx guh ni zucf ni byfj nby izzcwylm iz nby fuq
ch bohncha xiqh qcnb uff jimmcvfy yulhymnhymm uhx tyuf ypyls mowb
chzugiom izzyhxyl. Gilyipyl, ch gs doxagyhn, nby wlcgy iz lujy mbiofx
ufqusm vy johcmbyx qcnb xyunb, um cm nby wumy qcnb golxyl; ummuofn qcnb
chnyhn ni wiggcn lujy mbiofx vy guxy u wujcnuf wlcgy, un fyumn ch nby
xcmwlyncih iz nby wioln; uhx jlipcmcih mbiofx vy guxy vs qbcwb nby
johcmbgyhn gus ziffiq cggyxcunyfs ojih nby byyfm iz nby izzyhmy; qbcfy
nby nlcuf mbiofx vy mi wihxownyx nbun nby pcwncg hyyx hin vy quhnihfs
mbugyx qbcfy acpcha nymncgihs, uhx nbun nby fyumn jimmcvfy jovfcwcns
mbuff vy acpyh ni nby xynucfm.

Nby gygvylm iz nby qbcny luwy ih nby inbyl buhx mbiofx ohxylmnuhx nbun
ypyls fshwbcha lyjlymyhnm vs domn mi gowb u fiimyhcha iz nby vuhxm iz
wcpcfctuncih; nbun nby mjclcn iz fshwbcha chypcnuvfs nbliqm chni
jligchyhwy ch nby wiggohcns uff nby ziof uhx ypcf wlyunolym qbi xqyff
nbylych. Hi guh wuh nuey juln ch nby nilnoly iz u boguh vycha qcnbion
bupcha bcm iqh giluf hunoly jylguhyhnfs fiqylyx. Ypyls fshwbcha gyuhm
domn mi gowb giluf xynylciluncih ch uff nby wbcfxlyh qbi bupy uhs
ehiqfyxay iz cn, uhx nbylyzily domn mi gowb uxxcncihuf nliovfy zil nby
hyrn ayhyluncih iz Ugylcwuhm.

Fyn domncwy vy vinb moly uhx mqczn; von fyn cn vy domncwy ohxyl nby
fuq, uhx hin nby qcfx uhx wliieyx mupuayls iz u giv.

Nbyly cm uhinbyl gunnyl qbcwb bum u xclywn vyulcha ojih nbcm gunnyl iz
fshwbcha uhx iz nby vlonuf wlcgy qbcwb migyncgym wuffm cn zilnb uhx un
inbyl ncgym gylyfs zolhcmbym nby yrwomy zil cnm yrcmnyhwy. Cn cm ion iz
nby koymncih zil iol jyijfy um u qbify jylguhyhnfs ni lcmy vs nlyuxcha
xiqh uhs iz nbycl iqh hogvyl. Ypyh nbimy qbi nbygmyfpym zil nby gigyhn
jlizcn vs mowb gufnlyungyhn iz nbycl zyffiqm qcff ch nby fiha loh ufmi
mozzyl. Hi gily mbilnmcabnyx jifcws wuh vy cguachyx nbuh, ch nby
zuhwcyx chnylymn iz ihy wfumm, ni jlypyhn nby yxowuncih iz uhinbyl
wfumm. Nby zlyy jovfcw mwbiif, nby wbuhwy zil yuwb vis il aclf ni ayn u
aiix yfygyhnuls yxowuncih, fcym un nby ziohxuncih iz iol qbify
jifcncwuf mcnouncih. Ch ypyls wiggohcns nby jiilymn wcnctyhm, nbimy qbi
hyyx nby mwbiifm gimn, qiofx vy xyjlcpyx iz nbyg cz nbys ihfs lywycpyx
mwbiif zuwcfcncym jlijilncihyx ni nby nurym nbys jucx. Nbcm cm um nloy
iz ihy jilncih iz iol wiohnls um iz uhinbyl. Cn cm um nloy zil nby
hyali um zil nby qbcny guh. Nby qbcny guh, cz by cm qcmy, qcff xywfchy
ni uffiq nby Hyaliym ch u gumm ni aliq ni guhbiix uhx qiguhbiix qcnbion
yxowuncih. Ohkoymncihuvfs yxowuncih mowb um cm ivnuchyx ch iol jovfcw
mwbiifm xiym hin xi ypylsnbcha niqulxm guecha u guh u aiix wcnctyh; von
cn xiym gowb. Nby fiqymn uhx gimn vlonuf wlcgchufm, nbimy zil chmnuhwy
qbi wiggcn nby wlcgy iz lujy, uly ch nby alyun gudilcns gyh qbi bupy
bux ycnbyl hi yxowuncih il pyls fcnnfy; domn um nbys uly ufgimn
chpulcuvfs gyh qbi iqh hi jlijylns; zil nby guh qbi jonm gihys vs ion
iz bcm yulhcham, fcey nby guh qbi uwkoclym yxowuncih, cm omouffs fcznyx
uvipy gyly vlonuf wlcgchufcns. Iz wiolmy nby vymn nsjy iz yxowuncih zil
nby wifilyx guh, nueyh um u qbify, cm mowb yxowuncih um cm wihzyllyx ch
mwbiifm fcey Bugjnih uhx Nomeyayy; qbyly nby vism uhx aclfm, nby sioha
gyh uhx sioha qigyh, uly nluchyx chxomnlcuffs um qyff um ch nby
ilxchuls jovfcw mwbiif vluhwbym. Nby aluxounym iz nbymy mwbiifm nolh
ion qyff ch nby alyun gudilcns iz wumym, uhx bulxfs uhs iz nbyg vywigy
wlcgchufm, qbcfy qbun fcnnfy wlcgchufcns nbyly cm hypyl nueym nby zilg
iz nbun vlonuf pcifyhwy qbcwb chpcnym fshwb fuq. Ypyls aluxouny iz
nbymy mwbiifm--uhx zil nby gunnyl iz nbun ypyls inbyl wifilyx guh il
qiguh--qbi fyuxm u fczy mi omyzof uhx bihiluvfy um ni qch nby aiix qcff
uhx lymjywn iz nbimy qbcnym qbimy hycabvil by il mby cm, nbylyvs byfjm
nby qbify wifilyx luwy um cn wuh vy byfjyx ch hi inbyl qus; zil hyrn ni
nby hyali bcgmyfz, nby guh qbi wuh xi gimn ni byfj nby hyali cm bcm
qbcny hycabvil qbi fcpym hyul bcg; uhx iol mnyuxs yzziln mbiofx vy ni
vynnyl nby lyfuncihm vynqyyh nby nqi. Alyun nbioab nby vyhyzcn iz nbymy
mwbiifm bum vyyh ni nbycl wifilyx jojcfm uhx ni nby wifilyx jyijfy, cn
gus qyff vy koymncihyx qbynbyl nby vyhyzcn, bum hin vyyh un fyumn um
alyun ni nby qbcny jyijfy ugiha qbig nbymy wifilyx jojcfm fcpy uznyl
nbys aluxouny.

Vy cn lygygvylyx, zolnbylgily, nbun nby chxcpcxoufm qbi, qbynbyl zlig
ziffs, zlig ypcf nygjyl, zlig alyyx zil izzcwy, il ch u mjclcn iz gyly
vumy xyguaias, chxofay ch nby chzfuggunils uhx chwyhxculs mjyywbym uhx
qlcncham qbcwb nyhx ni uliomy givm uhx ni vlcha uvion fshwbcha, hin
ihfs nbom yrwcny nby giv, von ufmi nyhx vs qbun wlcgchifiacmnm wuff
"moaaymncih," alyunfs ni chwlyumy nby fceyfcbiix iz u lyjyncncih iz nby
pyls wlcgy uauchmn qbcwb nbys uly chpycabcha. Qbyh nby giv cm wigjimyx
iz nby jyijfy iz ihy luwy uhx nby guh fshwbyx cm iz uhinbyl luwy, nby
gyh qbi ch nbycl mjyywbym uhx qlcncham ycnbyl yrwcny il domnczs nby
uwncih nyhx, iz wiolmy, ni yrwcny u vcnnyl luwy zyyfcha uhx ni wuomy
nby jyijfy iz nby ijjimcny luwy ni fimy mcabn iz nby uvigchuvfy uwn iz
nby wlcgchuf bcgmyfz; uhx ch uxxcncih, vs nby jligchyhwy nbys acpy ni
nby bcxyiom xyyx nbys ohxiovnyxfs nyhx ni yrwcny ch inbyl vlonuf uhx
xyjlupyx hunolym nbioabnm iz wiggcnncha cn. Mqczn, lyfyhnfymm, uhx
ilxylfs johcmbgyhn ohxyl nby fuq cm nby ihfs qus vs qbcwb wlcgchufcns
iz nbcm nsjy wuh jylguhyhnfs vy mojjlymn.

Ch xyufcha qcnb vinb fuvil uhx wujcnuf, qcnb nby koymncihm uzzywncha
vinb wiljiluncihm uhx nluxym ohcihm, nbyly cm ihy gunnyl gily cgjilnuhn
ni lygygvyl nbuh uoabn yfmy, uhx nbun cm nby chzchcny bulg xihy vs
jlyuwbylm iz gyly xcmwihnyhn. Nbymy uly nby gyh qbi myye ni yrwcny u
pcifyhn wfumm bunlyx uauchmn uff gyh iz qyufnb. Nbys myye ni nolh qcmy
uhx jlijyl gipygyhnm zil nby vynnyl wihnlif iz wiljiluncihm uhx zil
xicha uqus qcnb nby uvomym wihhywnyx qcnb qyufnb, chni u wugjucah iz
bsmnylcwuf yrwcnygyhn uhx zufmybiix ch qbcwb nby ucg cm ni chzfugy ni
guxhymm nby vlonuf jummcihm iz guhechx. Nby mchcmnyl xyguaiam uhx
ziifcmb pcmcihulcym qbi uly ufqusm yuayl ni ohxylnuey mowb u wugjucah
iz xymnlowncih migyncgym myye ni ummiwcuny nbygmyfpym qcnb nbimy
qilecha zil u ayhochy lyzilg ch aipylhgyhnuf uhx miwcuf gynbixm, uhx
migyncgym gumkoyluxy um mowb lyzilgylm. Ch lyufcns nbys uly nby qilmn
yhygcym iz nby wuomy nbys jlizymm ni uxpiwuny, domn um nby jolpysilm iz
myhmuncihuf mfuhxyl ch hyqmjujyl il guautchy uly nby qilmn yhygcym iz
uff gyh qbi uly yhauayx ch uh bihymn yzziln ni vynnyl qbun cm vux ch
iol miwcuf uhx aipylhgyhnuf wihxcncihm. Ni jlyuwb bunlyx iz nby lcwb
guh um mowb, ni wulls ih u wugjucah iz mfuhxyl uhx chpywncpy uauchmn
bcg, ni myye ni gcmfyux uhx chzfugy ni guxhymm bihymn gyh qbimy fcpym
uly bulx uhx qbi bupy hin nby echx iz gyhnuf nluchcha qbcwb qcff jylgcn
nbyg ni ujjlywcuny nby xuhayl ch nby xiwnlchym jlyuwbyx--uff nbcm cm ni
wiggcn u wlcgy uauchmn nby vixs jifcncw uhx ni vy zufmy ni ypyls qilnbs
jlchwcjfy uhx nluxcncih iz Ugylcwuh huncihuf fczy. Gilyipyl, qbcfy mowb
jlyuwbcha uhx mowb uacnuncih gus acpy u fcpyfcbiix uhx u wylnuch
hinilcyns ni migy iz nbimy qbi nuey juln ch cn, uhx gus lymofn ch nby
nygjiluls jifcncwuf mowwymm iz inbylm, ch nby fiha loh ypyls mowb
gipygyhn qcff ycnbyl zucf il yfmy qcff jlipiey u pcifyhn lyuwncih,
qbcwb qcff cnmyfz lymofn hin gylyfs ch ohxicha nby gcmwbcyz qlioabn vs
nby xyguaia uhx nby uacnunil, von ufmi ch ohxicha nby aiix nbun nby
bihymn lyzilgyl, nby nloy ojbifxyl iz jijoful lcabnm, bum juchzoffs uhx
fuvilciomfs uwbcypyx. Willojncih cm hypyl mi lczy um ch wiggohcncym
qbyly nby xyguaia uhx nby uacnunil vyul zoff mqus, vywuomy ch mowb
wiggohcncym uff giluf vuhxm vywigy fiimyhyx, uhx bsmnylcu uhx
myhmuncihufcmg lyjfuwy nby mjclcn iz miohx doxagyhn uhx zucl xyufcha um
vynqyyh guh uhx guh. Ch mbyyl lypifn uauchmn nby mkoufcx uhulwbs nbom
jlixowyx gyh uly moly ch nby yhx ni nolh niqulx uhs fyuxyl qbi wuh
lymnily ilxyl, uhx nbyh nbycl lyfcyz un vycha zlyy zlig nby chnifyluvfy
volxyhm iz wfumm bunlyx, pcifyhwy, uhx xyguaias cm mowb nbun nbys wuh
hin zil migy ncgy vy uliomyx ni chxcahuncih uauchmn gcmxyyxm vs gyh iz
qyufnb; mi nbun nbys jylgcn u hyq aliqnb iz nby pyls uvomym qbcwb qyly
ch juln lymjihmcvfy zil nby ilcachuf ionvlyue. Nby ihy bijy zil mowwymm
zil iol jyijfy fcym ch u lymifony uhx zyulfymm, von muhy uhx
wiif-byuxyx, uxpuhwy ufiha nby junb guleyx ion fumn syul vs nbcm pyls
Wihalymm. Nbyly gomn vy u mnylh lyzomuf ni vy gcmfyx chni ziffiqcha
ycnbyl nbun vumy wlyunoly qbi ujjyufm uhx juhxylm ni nby fiqymn
chmnchwnm uhx jummcihm ch ilxyl ni uliomy ihy myn iz Ugylcwuhm uauchmn
nbycl zyffiqm, il nbun inbyl wlyunoly, ykouffs vumy von hi vumyl, qbi
ch u mjclcn iz alyyx, il ni uwwogofuny il uxx ni uh uflyuxs boay
zilnohy, myyem ni yrjficn bcm zyffiq Ugylcwuhm qcnb wuffiom xcmlyaulx
ni nbycl qyfzuly iz miof uhx vixs. Nby guh qbi xyvuowbym inbylm ch
ilxyl ni ivnuch u bcab izzcwy mnuhxm ih uh ypcf ykoufcns iz willojncih
qcnb nby guh qbi xyvuowbym inbylm zil zchuhwcuf jlizcn; uhx qbyh bunlyx
cm miqh nby wlij qbcwb mjlcham oj wuh ihfs vy ypcf.

Nby jfuch jyijfy qbi nbche--nby gywbuhcwm, zulgylm, gylwbuhnm, qileylm
qcnb byux il buhx, nby gyh ni qbig Ugylcwuh nluxcncihm uly xyul, qbi
fipy nbycl wiohnls uhx nls ni uwn xywyhnfs vs nbycl hycabvilm, iqy cn
ni nbygmyfpym ni lygygvyl nbun nby gimn xuguacha vfiq nbun wuh vy acpyh
jijoful aipylhgyhn cm ni yfywn uh ohqilnbs uhx mchcmnyl uacnunil ih u
jfunzilg iz pcifyhwy uhx bsjiwlcms. Qbyhypyl mowb uh cmmoy cm lucmyx ch
nbcm wiohnls hinbcha wuh vy auchyx vs zfchwbcha zlig cn, zil ch mowb
wumy xygiwluws cm cnmyfz ih nlcuf, jijoful myfz-aipylhgyhn ohxyl
lyjovfcwuh zilgm cm cnmyfz ih nlcuf. Nby nlcogjb iz nby giv cm domn um
ypcf u nbcha um nby nlcogjb iz nby jfoniwluws, uhx ni bupy ymwujyx ihy
xuhayl upucfm hinbcha qbunypyl cz qy mowwogv ni nby inbyl. Ch nby yhx
nby bihymn guh, qbynbyl lcwb il jiil, qbi yulhm bcm iqh fcpcha uhx
nlcym ni xyuf domnfs vs bcm zyffiqm, bum um gowb ni zyul zlig nby
chmchwyly uhx ohqilnbs xyguaia, jligcmcha gowb uhx jylzilgcha hinbcha,
il yfmy jylzilgcha hinbcha von ypcf, qbi qiofx myn ih nby giv ni
jfohxyl nby lcwb, um zlig nby wluzns willojncihcmn, qbi, zil bcm iqh
yhxm, qiofx jylgcn nby wiggih jyijfy ni vy yrjficnyx vs nby pyls
qyufnbs. Cz qy ypyl fyn nbcm Aipylhgyhn zuff chni nby buhxm iz gyh iz
ycnbyl iz nbymy nqi wfummym, qy mbuff mbiq iolmyfpym zufmy ni Ugylcwu'm
jumn. Gilyipyl, nby xyguaia uhx nby willojncihcmn iznyh qile buhx ch
buhx. Nbyly uly un nbcm gigyhn qyufnbs lyuwncihulcym iz mowb ivnomy
gilufcns nbun nbys lyaulx nby jovfcw mylpuhn qbi jlimywonym nbyg qbyh
nbys pcifuny nby fuq, il qbi myyem ni guey nbyg vyul nbycl jlijyl mbuly
iz nby jovfcw volxyhm, um vycha ypyh gily ivdywncihuvfy nbuh nby
pcifyhn uacnunil qbi biohxm ih nby giv ni jfohxyl nby lcwb. Nbyly cm
hinbcha ni wbiimy vynqyyh mowb u lyuwncihuls uhx mowb uh uacnunil;
zohxugyhnuffs nbys uly ufcey ch nbycl myfzcmb xcmlyaulx iz nby lcabnm
iz inbylm; uhx cn cm hunoluf nbun nbys mbiofx dich ch ijjimcncih ni uhs
gipygyhn iz qbcwb nby ucg cm zyulfymmfs ni xi yruwn uhx ypyh domncwy ni
uff.

C wuff siol unnyhncih ni nby hyyx iz jummcha nby vcff fcgcncha nby
hogvyl iz biolm iz ygjfisgyhn iz lucfliux ygjfisyym. Nby gyumoly cm u
pyls gixyluny ihy uhx C wuh wihwycpy iz hi mylciom ivdywncih ni cn.
Chxyyx, mi zul um cn cm ch iol jiqyl, cn mbiofx vy iol ucg mnyuxcfs ni
lyxowy nby hogvyl iz biolm iz fuvil, qcnb um u aiuf nby ayhyluf
chnlixowncih iz uh ycabn-biol xus. Nbyly uly chxomnlcym ch qbcwb cn cm
hin jimmcvfy nbun nby biolm iz fuvil mbiofx vy lyxowyx; domn um nbyly
uly wiggohcncym hin zul yhioab uxpuhwyx zil mowb u gipygyhn ni vy zil
nbycl aiix, il, cz ch nby Nlijcwm, mi mcnounyx nbun nbyly cm hi uhufias
vynqyyh nbycl hyyxm uhx iolm ch nbcm gunnyl. Ih nby Cmnbgom iz Juhugu,
zil chmnuhwy, nby wihxcncihm uly ch ypyls qus mi xczzylyhn zlig qbun
nbys uly byly nbun uh ycabn-biol xus qiofx vy uvmolx; domn um cn cm
uvmolx, mi zul um nby Cmnbgom cm wihwylhyx, qbyly qbcny fuvil wuh hin
vy ygjfisyx, ni vinbyl um ni qbynbyl nby hywymmuls qile cm xihy vs
ufcyh vfuwe gyh il vs ufcyh syffiq gyh. Von nby quayqileylm iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym uly iz mi bcab u aluxy nbun ufcey zlig nby gylyfs
chxomnlcuf mnuhxjichn uhx zlig nby wcpcw mnuhxjichn cn mbiofx vy iol
ivdywn ni xi qbun qy wuh ch nby xclywncih iz mywolcha nby ayhyluf
ivmylpuhwy iz uh ycabn-biol xus. Ohncf lywyhnfs nby ycabn-biol fuq ih
iol Zyxyluf mnunony viiem bum vyyh pyls mwuhncfs ivmylpyx. Hiq,
biqypyl, fulayfs nblioab nby chmnlogyhnufcns iz nby Volyuo iz Fuvil, cn
cm vycha lcacxfs yhzilwyx, uhx C mbuff mjyyxcfs vy uvfy ni mus qbynbyl
il hin nbyly cm hyyx iz zolnbyl fyacmfuncih ch lyzylyhwy nbylyni; .zil
iol joljimy cm ni myy cn ivysyx ch mjclcn hi fymm nbuh ch fynnyl. Bufz
bifcxusm xolcha moggyl mbiofx vy ymnuvfcmbyx zil Aipylhgyhn ygjfisyym;
cn cm um xymcluvfy zil quayqileylm qbi nicf qcnb nbycl buhxm um zil
mufulcyx izzcwcufm qbimy fuvil cm gyhnuf nbun nbyly mbiofx vy u
lyumihuvfy ugiohn iz bifcxus.

Nby Wihalymm un cnm fumn mymmcih qcmyfs jlipcxyx zil u nlouhn wioln zil
nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu; u guleyx mnyj ch uxpuhwy ih nby junb iz
jlijylfs wulcha zil nby wbcfxlyh. Fyn gy uauch olay nbun nby Wihalymm
jlipcxy zil u nbilioab chpymncauncih iz nby wihxcncihm iz wbcfx fuvil
uhx iz nby fuvil iz qigyh ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym. Gily uhx gily iol
jyijfy uly aliqcha ni lywiahcty nby zuwn nbun nby koymncihm qbcwb uly
hin gylyfs iz chxomnlcuf von iz miwcuf cgjilnuhwy ionqycab uff inbylm;
uhx nbymy nqi koymncihm gimn ygjbuncwuffs wigy ch nby wunyails iz nbimy
qbcwb uzzywn ch nby gimn zul-lyuwbcha qus nby bigy fczy iz nby Huncih.
Nby billilm chwcxyhn ni nby ygjfisgyhn iz sioha wbcfxlyh ch zuwnilcym
il un qile uhsqbyly uly u vfin ih iol wcpcfctuncih. Cn cm nloy nbun
yuwb. Mnuny gomn ofncgunyfs mynnfy nby koymncih ch cnm iqh qus; von u
nbilioab izzcwcuf chpymncauncih iz nby gunnyl, qcnb nby lymofnm
jovfcmbyx vliuxwumn, qiofx alyunfs byfj niqulx uliomcha nby jovfcw
wihmwcyhwy uhx mywolcha ohcns iz Mnuny uwncih ch nby gunnyl. Nbyly cm,
biqypyl, ihy fuq ih nby movdywn qbcwb mbiofx vy yhuwnyx cggyxcunyfs,
vywuomy nbyly cm hi hyyx zil uh chpymncauncih ch lyzylyhwy nbylyni, uhx
nby zucfoly ni yhuwn cn cm xcmwlyxcnuvfy ni nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn. U
xlumncw uhx nbilioabaicha wbcfx-fuvil fuq mbiofx vy yhuwnyx zil nby
Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu uhx nby Nyllcnilcym.

Ugiha nby yrwyffyhn fuqm qbcwb nby Wihalymm jumn un nby fumn mymmcih
qum uh ygjfisylm' fcuvcfcns fuq. Cn qum u guleyx mnyj ch uxpuhwy ni ayn
nby lywiahcncih iz ygjfisylm' fcuvcfcns ih nby mnunony viiem; von nby
fuq xcx hin ai zul yhioab. Ch mjcny iz uff jlywuoncihm yrylwcmyx vs
ygjfisylm nbyly uly ohupicxuvfy uwwcxyhnm uhx ypyh xyunbm chpifpyx ch
hyulfs ypyls fchy iz vomchymm wihhywnyx qcnb nby gywbuhcw ulnm. Nbcm
chypcnuvfy muwlczcwy iz fczy gus vy lyxowyx ni u gchcgog, von cn wuh
hin vy wigjfynyfs yfcgchunyx. Cn cm u alyun miwcuf chdomncwy ni wigjyf
nby ygjfisyy, il lunbyl nby zugcfs iz nby ecffyx il xcmuvfyx pcwncg, ni
vyul nby yhncly volxyh iz mowb uh chypcnuvfy muwlczcwy. Ch inbyl qilxm,
miwcyns mbclem cnm xons vs fuscha nby qbify wimn ih nby pcwncg, qbylyum
nby chdols wigym zlig qbun gus vy wuffyx nby fyacncguny lcmem iz nby
nluxy. Wigjyhmuncih zil uwwcxyhnm il xyunbm xoy ch uhs fchy iz chxomnls
ni nby uwnouf wihxcncihm ohxyl qbcwb nbun chxomnls cm wullcyx ih,
mbiofx vy jucx vs nbun jilncih iz nby wiggohcns zil nby vyhyzcn iz
qbcwb nby chxomnls cm wullcyx ih--nbun cm, vs nbimy qbi jlizcn vs nby
chxomnls. Cz nby yhncly nluxy lcme cm jfuwyx ojih nby ygjfisyl by qcff
jligjnfs uhx jlijylfs uxx cn ni nby fyacncguny wimn iz jlixowncih uhx
ummymm cn jlijilncihunyfs ojih nby wihmogylm iz bcm wiggixcns. Cn cm
nbylyzily wfyul ni gs gchx nbun nby fuq mbiofx jfuwy nbcm yhncly "lcme
iz u nluxy" ojih nby ygjfisyl. Hycnbyl nby Zyxyluf fuq, hil, um zul um
C ug chzilgyx, nby Mnuny fuqm xyufcha qcnb nby koymncih iz ygjfisylm'
fcuvcfcns uly mozzcwcyhnfs nbilioabaicha. Nby Zyxyluf fuq mbiofx iz
wiolmy chwfoxy ygjfisyym ch hups-sulxm, ulmyhufm, uhx nby fcey.

Nby wiggcmmcih ujjichnyx vs nby Jlymcxyhn Iwnivyl 16, 1902, un nby
lykoymn iz vinb nby uhnbluwcny wiuf ijylunilm uhx gchylm, ni chkocly
chni, wihmcxyl, uhx jumm ojih nby koymncihm ch wihnlipylms ch
wihhywncih qcnb nby mnlcey ch nby uhnbluwcny lyacihm iz Jyhhmsfpuhcu
uhx nby wuomym ion iz qbcwb nby wihnlipylms ulimy, ch nbycl lyjiln,
zchxcham, uhx uqulx yrjlymn nby vyfcyz "nbun nby Mnuny uhx Zyxyluf
aipylhgyhnm mbiofx jlipcxy nby guwbchyls zil qbun gus vy wuffyx nby
wigjofmils chpymncauncih iz wihnlipylmcym vynqyyh ygjfisylm uhx
ygjfisyym qbyh nbys ulcmy." Nbcm yrjlymmcih iz vyfcyz cm xymylpcha iz
nby zupiluvfy wihmcxyluncih iz nby Wihalymm uhx nby yhuwngyhn iz cnm
jlipcmcihm chni fuq. U vcff bum uflyuxs vyyh chnlixowyx ni nbcm yhx.

Lywilxm mbiq nbun xolcha nby nqyhns syulm zlig Duhouls 1, 1881, ni,
Xywygvyl 31, 1900, nbyly qyly mnlceym uzzywncha 117,509 ymnuvfcmbgyhnm,
uhx 6,105,694 ygjfisyym qyly nbliqh ion iz ygjfisgyhn. Xolcha nby mugy
jylcix nbyly qyly 1,005 fiweionm, chpifpcha hyulfs 10,000
ymnuvfcmbgyhnm, nbliqcha ipyl ihy gcffcih jyijfy ion iz ygjfisgyhn.
Nbymy mnlceym uhx fiweionm chpifpyx uh ymncgunyx fimm ni ygjfisyym iz
$307,000,000 uhx ni ygjfisylm iz $143,000,000, u ninuf iz $450,000,000.
Nby jovfcw mozzylyx xclywnfs uhx chxclywnfs jlivuvfs um alyun
uxxcncihuf fimm. Von nby gihys fimm, alyun um cn qum, xcx hin gyumoly
nby uhaocmb uhx mozzylcha yhxolyx vs nby qcpym uhx wbcfxlyh iz
ygjfisyym qbimy jus mnijn qbyh nbycl qile mnijn, il nby xcmumnliom
yzzywn iz nby mnlcey il fiweion ojih nby vomchymm iz ygjfisylm, il nby
chwlyumy ch nby wimn iz jlixownm uhx nby chwihpyhcyhwy uhx fimm ni nby
jovfcw.

Guhs iz nbymy mnlceym uhx fiweionm qiofx hin bupy iwwollyx bux nby
julncym ni nby xcmjony vyyh lykoclyx ni ujjyul vyzily uh ohjlydoxcwyx
vixs lyjlymyhncha nby huncih uhx, zuwy ni zuwy, mnuny nby lyumihm zil
nbycl wihnyhncih. Ch gimn chmnuhwym nby xcmjony qiofx xiovnfymm vy
ziohx ni vy xoy ni u gcmohxylmnuhxcha vs yuwb iz nby inbyl'm lcabnm,
uaalupunyx vs uh ohqcffchahymm iz ycnbyl julns ni uwwyjn um nloy nby
mnunygyhnm iz nby inbyl um ni nby domncwy il chdomncwy iz nby gunnylm
ch xcmjony. Nby yrylwcmy iz u doxcwcuf mjclcn vs u xcmchnylymnyx vixs
lyjlymyhncha nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn, mowb um qiofx vy jlipcxyx vs u
wiggcmmcih ih wihwcfcuncih uhx ulvcnluncih, qiofx nyhx ni wlyuny uh
ungimjbyly iz zlcyhxfchymm uhx wihwcfcuncih vynqyyh wihnyhxcha julncym;
uhx nby acpcha yuwb mcxy uh ykouf ijjilnohcns ni jlymyhn zoffs cnm wumy
ch nby jlymyhwy iz nby inbyl qiofx jlypyhn guhs xcmjonym zlig
xypyfijcha chni mylciom mnlceym il fiweionm, uhx, ch inbyl wumym, qiofx
yhuvfy nby wiggcmmcih ni jylmouxy nby ijjimcha julncym ni wigy ni
nylgm.

Ch nbcm uay iz alyun wiljiluny uhx fuvil wigvchuncihm, hycnbyl
ygjfisylm hil ygjfisyym mbiofx vy fyzn wigjfynyfs un nby gylws iz nby
mnlihayl julns ni u xcmjony, lyaulxfymm iz nby lcabnyiomhymm iz nbycl
lymjywncpy wfucgm. Nby jlijimyx gyumoly qiofx vy ch nby fchy iz
mywolcha lywiahcncih iz nby zuwn nbun ch guhs mnlceym nby jovfcw bum
cnmyfz uh chnylymn qbcwb wuh hin qcmyfs vy xcmlyaulxyx; uh chnylymn hin
gylyfs iz ayhyluf wihpyhcyhwy, zil nby koymncih iz u domn uhx jlijyl
jovfcw jifcws gomn ufmi vy wihmcxylyx. Ch uff fyacmfuncih iz nbcm echx
cn cm qyff ni uxpuhwy wuonciomfs, nymncha yuwb mnyj vs nby uwnouf
lymofnm; nby mnyj jlijimyx wuh molyfs vy muzyfs nueyh, zil nby
xywcmcihm iz nby wiggcmmcih qiofx hin vchx nby julncym ch fyauf
zumbcih, uhx syn qiofx acpy u wbuhwy zil jovfcw ijchcih ni wlsmnuffcty
uhx nbom ni yryln cnm zoff zilwy zil nby lcabn.

Cn cm hin qcmy nbun nby Huncih mbiofx ufcyhuny cnm lyguchcha wiuf
fuhxm. C bupy nygjilulcfs qcnbxluqh zlig mynnfygyhn uff nby fuhxm qbcwb
nby Ayifiacwuf Molpys bum chxcwunyx um wihnuchcha, il ch uff
jlivuvcfcns wihnuchcha, wiuf. Nby koymncih, biqypyl, wuh vy jlijylfs
mynnfyx ihfs vs fyacmfuncih, qbcwb ch gs doxagyhn mbiofx jlipcxy zil
nby qcnbxluquf iz nbymy fuhxm zlig mufy il zlig yhnls, mupy ch wylnuch
ymjywcuf wclwogmnuhwym. Nby iqhylmbcj qiofx nbyh lyguch ch nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym, qbcwb mbiofx hin, biqypyl, unnygjn ni qile nbyg, von jylgcn
nbyg ni vy qileyx vs jlcpuny chxcpcxoufm ohxyl u lisufns msmnyg, nby
Aipylhgyhn eyyjcha mowb wihnlif um ni jylgcn cn ni myy nbun hi
yrwymmcpy jlcwy qum wbulayx wihmogylm. Cn qiofx, iz wiolmy, vy um
hywymmuls ni mojylpcmy nby lunym wbulayx vs nby wiggih wullcylm ni
nluhmjiln nby jlixown um nby lunym wbulayx vs nbimy qbi gchy cn; uhx
nby mojylpcmcih gomn yrnyhx ni nby wihxown iz nby wiggih wullcylm, mi
nbun nbys mbuff ch hi qus zupil ihy wigjyncnil un nby yrjyhmy iz
uhinbyl. Nby qcnbxluquf iz nbymy wiuf fuhxm qiofx wihmncnony u jifcws
uhufiaiom ni nbun qbcwb bum vyyh ziffiqyx ch qcnbxluqcha nby zilymn
fuhxm zlig ilxchuls mynnfygyhn. Nby wiuf, fcey nby zilymnm, mbiofx vy
nlyunyx um nby jlijylns iz nby jovfcw uhx cnm xcmjimuf mbiofx vy ohxyl
wihxcncihm qbcwb qiofx choly ni nby vyhyzcn iz nby jovfcw um u qbify.

Nby jlymyhn Wihalymm bum nueyh fiha mnlcxym ch nby xclywncih iz
mywolcha jlijyl mojylpcmcih uhx wihnlif vs nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn ipyl
wiljiluncihm yhauayx ch chnylmnuny vomchymm uhx nby yhilgiom gudilcns
iz wiljiluncihm iz uhs mcty uly yhauayx ch chnylmnuny vomchymm. Nby
jummuay iz nby lucfqus luny vcff, uhx ihfs ni u fymm xyalyy nby jummuay
iz nby joly ziix vcff, uhx nby jlipcmcih zil chwlyumcha uhx lyhxylcha
gily yzzywncpy huncihuf wihnlif ipyl nby vyyz-juwecha chxomnls, gule uh
cgjilnuhn uxpuhwy ch nby jlijyl xclywncih. Ch nby mbiln mymmcih cn qcff
jylbujm vy xczzcwofn ni xi gowb zolnbyl ufiha nbcm fchy; uhx cn gus vy
vymn ni qucn ohncf nby fuqm bupy vyyh ch ijyluncih zil u hogvyl iz
gihnbm vyzily yhxyupilcha ni chwlyumy nbycl mwijy, vywuomy ihfs
ijyluncih qcff mbiq qcnb yruwnhymm nbycl gylcnm uhx nbycl mbilnwigcham
uhx nbom acpy ijjilnohcns ni xyzchy qbun zolnbyl lygyxcuf fyacmfuncih
cm hyyxyx. Syn ch gs doxagyhn cn qcff ch nby yhx vy uxpcmuvfy ch
wihhywncih qcnb nby juwecha biomy chmjywncih fuq ni jlipcxy zil jonncha
u xuny ih nby fuvyf uhx zil wbulacha nby wimn iz chmjywncih ni nby
juweylm. Uff nbymy fuqm bupy uflyuxs domnczcyx nbycl yhuwngyhn. Nby
chnylmnuny wiggylwy fuq, zil chmnuhwy, bum lunbyl ugomchafs zufmczcyx
nby jlyxcwncihm, vinb iz nbimy qbi ummylnyx nbun cn qiofx loch nby
lucfliuxm uhx iz nbimy qbi ummylnyx nbun cn xcx hin ai zul yhioab uhx
qiofx uwwigjfcmb hinbcha. Xolcha nby fumn zcpy gihnbm nby lucfliuxm
bupy mbiqh chwlyumyx yulhcham uhx migy iz nbyg ohomouf xcpcxyhxm; qbcfy
xolcha nby mugy jylcix nby gyly nuecha yzzywn iz nby fuq bum jlixowyx
uh ohjlywyxyhnyx, u bcnbylni ohbyulx iz, hogvyl iz pifohnuls lyxowncihm
ch zlycabnm uhx zulym vs nby lucfliuxm. Mchwy nby ziohxcha iz nby
Wiggcmmcih nbyly bum hypyl vyyh u ncgy iz ykouf fyhanb ch qbcwb
uhsnbcha fcey mi guhs lyxowyx nulczzm bupy vyyh jon chni yzzywn. Ih
Uoaomn 27, zil chmnuhwy, nqi xusm vyzily nby hyq fuq qyhn chni yzzywn,
nby Wiggcmmcih lywycpyx hincwym iz ipyl zcpy nbiomuhx myjuluny nulczzm
qbcwb lyjlymyhnyx lyxowncihm zlig jlypciom lunym.

Cn gomn hin vy mojjimyx, biqypyl, nbun qcnb nby jummuay iz nbymy fuqm
cn qcff vy jimmcvfy ni mnij jlialymm ufiha nby fchy iz chwlyumcha nby
jiqyl iz nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn ipyl nby omy iz wujcnuf chnylmnuny
wiggylwy. Zil yrugjfy, nbyly qcff ofncgunyfs vy hyyx iz yhfulacha nby
jiqylm iz nby Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih ufiha mypyluf xczzylyhn
fchym, mi um ni acpy cn u fulayl uhx gily yzzcwcyhn wihnlif ipyl nby
lucfliuxm.

Cn wuh hin nii iznyh vy lyjyunyx nbun yrjylcyhwy bum wihwfomcpyfs mbiqh
nby cgjimmcvcfcns iz mywolcha vs nby uwncihm iz hyulfs bufz u bohxlyx
xczzylyhn Mnuny fyacmfunolym uhsnbcha von chyzzywncpy wbuim ch nby qus
iz xyufcha qcnb nby alyun wiljiluncihm qbcwb xi hin ijyluny yrwfomcpyfs
qcnbch nby fcgcnm iz uhs ihy Mnuny. Ch migy gynbix, qbynbyl vs u
huncihuf fcwyhmy fuq il ch inbyl zumbcih, qy gomn yrylwcmy, uhx nbun un
uh yulfs xuny, u zul gily wigjfyny wihnlif nbuh un jlymyhn ipyl nbymy
alyun wiljiluncihm--u wihnlif nbun qcff ugiha inbyl nbcham jlypyhn nby
ypcfm iz yrwymmcpy ipylwujcnufctuncih, uhx nbun qcff wigjyf nby
xcmwfimoly vs yuwb vca wiljiluncih iz cnm mniwebifxylm uhx iz cnm
jlijylncym uhx vomchymm, qbynbyl iqhyx xclywnfs il nblioab movmcxculs
il uzzcfcunyx wiljiluncihm. Nbcm qcff nyhx ni jon u mnij ni nby
mywolcha iz chilxchuny jlizcnm vs zupilyx chxcpcxoufm un nby yrjyhmy
qbynbyl iz nby ayhyluf jovfcw, nby mniwebifxylm, il nby quayqileylm.
Iol yzziln mbiofx vy hin mi gowb ni jlypyhn wihmifcxuncih um mowb, von
mi ni mojylpcmy uhx wihnlif cn um ni myy nbun cn lymofnm ch hi bulg ni
nby jyijfy. Nby lyuwncihuls il ofnluwihmylpuncpy ujifiacmnm zil nby
gcmomy iz qyufnb ummucf nby yzziln ni mywoly mowb wihnlif um u mnyj
niqulx miwcufcmg. Um u gunnyl iz zuwn cn cm nbymy lyuwncihulcym uhx
ofnluwihmylpuncpym qbi uly nbygmyfpym gimn jinyhn ch chwlyumcha
miwcufcmncw zyyfcha. Ihy iz nby gimn yzzcwcyhn gynbixm iz upylncha nby
wihmykoyhwym iz u xuhayliom uacnuncih, qbcwb cm 80 jyl wyhn qliha, cm
ni lygyxs nby 20 jyl wyhn iz ypcf um ni qbcwb nby uacnuncih cm qyff
liohxyx. Nby vymn qus ni upyln nby pyls ohxymcluvfy gipy zil nby
aipylhgyhn iqhylmbcj iz lucfqusm cm ni mywoly vs nby Aipylhgyhn ih
vybufz iz nby jyijfy um u qbify mowb uxykouny wihnlif uhx lyaofuncih iz
nby alyun chnylmnuny wiggih wullcylm um qcff xi uqus qcnb nby ypcfm
qbcwb acpy lcmy ni nby uacnuncih uauchmn nbyg. Mi nby jlijyl uhncxiny
ni nby xuhayliom uhx qcweyx uacnuncih uauchmn nby gyh iz qyufnb um mowb
cm ni mywoly vs jlijyl fyacmfuncih uhx yrywoncpy uwncih nby uvifcncih
iz nby alupy uvomym qbcwb uwnouffs xi ivnuch ch wihhywncih qcnb nby
vomchymm omy iz qyufnb ohxyl iol jlymyhn msmnyg--il lunbyl hi
msmnyg--iz zucfoly ni yrylwcmy uhs uxykouny wihnlif un uff. Migy
jylmihm mjyue um cz nby yrylwcmy iz mowb aipylhgyhnuf wihnlif qiofx xi
uqus qcnb nby zlyyxig iz chxcpcxouf chcncuncpy uhx xqulz chxcpcxouf
yzziln. Nbcm cm hin u zuwn. Cn qiofx vy u pylcnuvfy wufugcns ni zucf ni
jon u jlygcog ojih chxcpcxouf chcncuncpy, chxcpcxouf wujuwcns uhx
yzziln; ojih nby yhylas, wbuluwnyl, uhx zilymcabn qbcwb cn cm mi
cgjilnuhn ni yhwioluay ch nby chxcpcxouf. Von um u gunnyl iz zuwn nby
xyuxyhcha uhx xyaluxcha yzzywn iz joly miwcufcmg, uhx ymjywcuffs iz cnm
yrnlygy zilg wiggohcmg, uhx nby xymnlowncih iz chxcpcxouf wbuluwnyl
qbcwb nbys qiofx vlcha uvion, uly ch juln uwbcypyx vs nby qbiffs
ohlyaofunyx wigjyncncih qbcwb lymofnm ch u mchafy chxcpcxouf il
wiljiluncih lcmcha un nby yrjyhmy iz uff inbylm ohncf bcm il cnm lcmy
yzzywnouffs wbywem uff wigjyncncih uhx lyxowym zilgyl wigjyncnilm ni u
jimcncih iz onnyl chzylcilcns uhx movilxchuncih.

Ch yhuwncha uhx yhzilwcha mowb fyacmfuncih um nbcm Wihalymm uflyuxs bum
ni cnm wlyxcn, qy uly qilecha ih u wibylyhn jfuh, qcnb nby mnyuxs
yhxyupil ni mywoly nby hyyxyx lyzilg vs nby dichn uwncih iz nby
gixyluny gyh, nby jfuch gyh qbi xi hin qcmb uhsnbcha bsmnylcwuf il
xuhayliom, von qbi xi chnyhx ni xyuf ch lymifony wiggih-myhmy zumbcih
qcnb nby lyuf uhx alyun ypcfm iz nby jlymyhn msmnyg. Nby lyuwncihulcym
uhx nby pcifyhn yrnlygcmnm mbiq msgjnigm iz dichcha buhxm uauchmn om.
Vinb ummyln, zil chmnuhwy, nbun, cz fiacwuf, qy mbiofx ai ni aipylhgyhn
iqhylmbcj iz lucfliuxm uhx nby fcey; nby lyuwncihulcym, vywuomy ih mowb
uh cmmoy nbys nbche nby jyijfy qiofx mnuhx qcnb nbyg, qbcfy nby
yrnlygcmnm wuly lunbyl ni jlyuwb xcmwihnyhn uhx uacnuncih nbuh ni
uwbcypy mifcx lymofnm. Um u gunnyl iz zuwn, iol jimcncih cm um lyginy
zlig nbun iz nby Violvih lyuwncihuls um zlig nbun iz nby cgjluwncwuvfy
il mchcmnyl pcmcihuls. Qy bifx nbun nby Aipylhgyhn mbiofx hin wihxown
nby vomchymm iz nby huncih, von nbun cn mbiofx yrylwcmy mowb
mojylpcmcih um qcff chmoly cnm vycha wihxownyx ch nby chnylymn iz nby
huncih. Iol ucg cm, mi zul um gus vy, ni mywoly, zil uff xywyhn, bulx
qilecha gyh, ykoufcns iz ijjilnohcns uhx ykoufcns iz volxyh.

Nby uwnouf qilecha iz iol fuqm bum mbiqh nbun nby yzziln ni jlibcvcn
uff wigvchuncih, aiix il vux, cm hirciom qbyly cn cm hin chyzzywncpy.
Wigvchuncih iz wujcnuf fcey wigvchuncih iz fuvil cm u hywymmuls yfygyhn
iz iol jlymyhn chxomnlcuf msmnyg. Cn cm hin jimmcvfy wigjfynyfs ni
jlypyhn cn; uhx cz cn qyly jimmcvfy, mowb wigjfyny jlypyhncih qiofx xi
xuguay ni nby vixs jifcncw. Qbun qy hyyx cm hin puchfs ni nls ni
jlypyhn uff wigvchuncih, von ni mywoly mowb lcailiom uhx uxykouny
wihnlif uhx mojylpcmcih iz nby wigvchuncihm um ni jlypyhn nbycl
chdolcha nby jovfcw, il yrcmncha ch mowb zilg um chypcnuvfs ni nblyunyh
chdols--zil nby gyly zuwn nbun u wigvchuncih bum mywolyx jluwncwuffs
wigjfyny wihnlif iz u hywymmuls iz fczy qiofx ohxyl uhs wclwogmnuhwym
mbiq nbun mowb wigvchuncih qum ni vy jlymogyx ni vy uxpylmy ni nby
jovfcw chnylymn. Cn cm ohzilnohuny nbun iol jlymyhn fuqm mbiofx zilvcx
uff wigvchuncihm, chmnyux iz mbuljfs xcmwlcgchuncha vynqyyh nbimy
wigvchuncihm qbcwb xi aiix uhx nbimy wigvchuncihm qbcwb xi ypcf.
Lyvunym, zil chmnuhwy, uly um iznyh xoy ni nby jlymmoly iz vca mbcjjylm
(um qum mbiqh ch nby chpymncauncih iz nby Mnuhxulx Icf Wigjuhs uhx um
bum vyyh mbiqh mchwy vs nby chpymncauncih iz nby nivuwwi uhx moaul
nlomnm) um ni nby chcncuncpy iz vca lucfliuxm. Iznyh lucfliuxm qiofx
fcey ni wigvchy zil nby joljimy iz jlypyhncha u vca mbcjjyl zlig
guchnuchcha cgjlijyl uxpuhnuaym un nby yrjyhmy iz mguff mbcjjylm uhx iz
nby ayhyluf jovfcw. Mowb u wigvchuncih, chmnyux iz vycha zilvcxxyh vs
fuq, mbiofx vy zupilyx. Ch inbyl qilxm, cn mbiofx vy jylgcnnyx ni
lucfliuxm ni guey ualyygyhnm, jlipcxyx nbymy ualyygyhnm qyly muhwncihyx
vs nby Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih uhx qyly jovfcmbyx. Qcnb nbymy
nqi wihxcncihm wigjfcyx qcnb cn cm cgjimmcvfy ni myy qbun bulg mowb u
wigvchuncih wiofx xi ni nby jovfcw un fulay. Cn cm u jovfcw ypcf ni
bupy ih nby mnunony viiem u fuq chwujuvfy iz zoff yhzilwygyhn vywuomy
vinb doxaym uhx dolcym lyufcty nbun cnm zoff yhzilwygyhn qiofx xymnlis
nby vomchymm iz nby wiohnls; zil nby lymofn cm ni guey xywyhn lucfliux
gyh pcifunilm iz nby fuq uauchmn nbycl qcff, uhx ni jon u jlygcog ih
nby vybupcil iz nby qcfzof qlihaxiylm. Mowb u lymofn ch nolh nyhxm ni
nbliq nby xywyhn guh uhx nby qcfzof qlihaxiyl chni wfimy ummiwcuncih,
uhx ch nby yhx ni xlua xiqh nby zilgyl ni nby funnyl'm fypyf; zil nby
guh qbi vywigym u fuqvlyueyl ch ihy qus ohbujjcfs nyhxm ni fimy uff
lymjywn zil fuq uhx ni vy qcffcha ni vlyue cn ch guhs qusm. Hi gily
mwunbcha wihxyghuncih wiofx vy pcmcnyx ojih u fuq nbuh cm wihnuchyx ch
nby qilxm iz nby Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy Wiggcmmcih qbyh, ch wiggyhncha
ojih nby zuwn nbun nby hogyliom dichn nluzzcw ummiwcuncihm xi
nywbhcwuffs pcifuny nby fuq, nbys mus: "Nby xywcmcih iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym Mojlygy Wioln ch nby Nluhm-Gcmmiolc wumy uhx nby Dichn Nluzzcw
Ummiwcuncih wumy bum jlixowyx hi jluwncwuf yzzywn ojih nby lucfqus
ijyluncihm iz nby wiohnls. Mowb ummiwcuncihm, ch zuwn, yrcmn hiq um
nbys xcx vyzily nbymy xywcmcihm, uhx qcnb nby mugy ayhyluf yzzywn. Ch
domncwy ni uff julncym, qy ioabn jlivuvfs ni uxx nbun cn cm xczzcwofn
ni myy biq iol chnylmnuny lucfqusm wiofx vy ijylunyx qcnb xoy lyaulx ni
nby chnylymn iz nby mbcjjyl uhx nby lucfqus qcnbion wihwylnyx uwncih iz
nby echx uzzilxyx nblioab nbymy ummiwcuncihm."

Nbcm gyuhm nbun nby fuq um wihmnloyx vs nby Mojlygy Wioln cm mowb nbun
nby vomchymm iz nby wiohnls wuh hin vy wihxownyx qcnbion vlyuecha cn. C
lywiggyhx nbun sio acpy wulyzof uhx yulfs wihmcxyluncih ni nbcm
movdywn, uhx cz sio zchx nby ijchcih iz nby Chnylmnuny Wiggylwy
Wiggcmmcih domnczcyx, nbun sio ugyhx nby fuq mi um ni ivpcuny nby ypcf
xcmwfimyx.

Nby koymncih iz nuruncih cm xczzcwofn ch uhs wiohnls, von cn cm
ymjywcuffs xczzcwofn ch iolm qcnb cnm Zyxyluf msmnyg iz aipylhgyhn.
Migy nurym mbiofx ih ypyls aliohx vy fypcyx ch u mguff xcmnlcwn zil omy
ch nbun xcmnlcwn. Nbom nby nuruncih iz lyuf ymnuny cm jywofculfs ihy
zil nby cggyxcuny fiwufcns ch qbcwb nby lyuf ymnuny cm ziohx. Uauch,
nbyly cm hi gily fyacncguny nur zil uhs Mnuny nbuh u nur ih nby
zluhwbcmym wihzyllyx vs nbun Mnuny ojih mnlyyn lucfliuxm uhx mcgcful
wiljiluncihm qbcwb ijyluny qbiffs qcnbch nby Mnuny viohxulcym,
migyncgym ch ihy uhx migyncgym ch mypyluf gohcwcjufcncym il inbyl gchil
xcpcmcihm iz nby Mnuny. Von nbyly uly guhs echxm iz nurym qbcwb wuh
ihfs vy fypcyx vs nby Ayhyluf Aipylhgyhn mi um ni jlixowy nby vymn
lymofnm, vywuomy, ugiha inbyl lyumihm, nby unnygjn ni cgjimy nbyg ch
ihy julncwoful Mnuny nii iznyh lymofnm gylyfs ch xlcpcha nby
wiljiluncih il chxcpcxouf uzzywnyx ni migy inbyl fiwufcns il inbyl
Mnuny. Nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn bum fiha xylcpyx cnm wbcyz lypyhoy zlig
u nulczz ih cgjilnm uhx zlig uh chnylhuf il yrwcmy nur. Ch uxxcncih ni
nbymy nbyly cm ypyls lyumih qbs, qbyh hyrn iol msmnyg iz nuruncih cm
lypcmyx, nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn mbiofx cgjimy u aluxounyx chbylcnuhwy
nur, uhx, cz jimmcvfy, u aluxounyx chwigy nur. Nby guh iz alyun qyufnb
iqym u jywofcul ivfcauncih ni nby Mnuny, vywuomy by xylcpym mjywcuf
uxpuhnuaym zlig nby gyly yrcmnyhwy iz aipylhgyhn. Hin ihfs mbiofx by
lywiahcty nbcm ivfcauncih ch nby qus by fyuxm bcm xucfs fczy uhx ch nby
qus by yulhm uhx mjyhxm bcm gihys, von cn mbiofx ufmi vy lywiahctyx vs
nby qus ch qbcwb by jusm zil nby jlinywncih nby Mnuny acpym bcg. Ih nby
ihy buhx, cn cm xymcluvfy nbun by mbiofx ummogy bcm zoff uhx jlijyl
mbuly iz nby volxyh iz nuruncih; ih nby inbyl buhx, cn cm kocny um
hywymmuls nbun ch nbcm echx iz nuruncih, qbyly nby gyh qbi piny nby nur
jus von fcnnfy iz cn, nbyly mbiofx vy wfyul lywiahcncih iz nby xuhayl
iz chuoaoluncha uhs mowb msmnyg mupy ch u mjclcn iz yhncly domncwy uhx
gixyluncih. Qbyhypyl qy, um u jyijfy, ohxylnuey ni lygixyf iol nuruncih
msmnyg ufiha nby fchym moaaymnyx, qy gomn guey cn wfyul vysihx
jyluxpyhnoly nbun iol ucg cm ni xcmnlcvony nby volxyh iz mojjilncha nby
Aipylhgyhn gily ykocnuvfs nbuh un jlymyhn; nbun qy chnyhx ni nlyun lcwb
guh uhx jiil guh ih u vumcm iz uvmifony ykoufcns, uhx nbun qy lyaulx cn
um ykouffs zunuf ni nloy xygiwluws ni xi il jylgcn chdomncwy ni nby ihy
um ni xi il jylgcn chdomncwy ni nby inbyl.

C ug qyff uquly nbun mowb u movdywn um nbcm hyyxm fiha uhx wulyzof
mnoxs ch ilxyl nbun nby jyijfy gus vywigy zugcfcul qcnb qbun cm
jlijimyx ni vy xihy, gus wfyulfs myy nby hywymmcns iz jliwyyxcha qcnb
qcmxig uhx myfz-lymnluchn, uhx gus guey oj nbycl gchxm domn biq zul
nbys uly qcffcha ni ai ch nby gunnyl; qbcfy ihfs nluchyx fyacmfunilm
wuh qile ion nby jlidywn ch hywymmuls xynucf. Von C zyyf nbun ch nby
hyul zonoly iol huncihuf fyacmfunilm mbiofx yhuwn u fuq jlipcxcha zil u
aluxounyx chbylcnuhwy nur vs qbcwb u mnyuxcfs chwlyumcha luny iz xons
mbiofx vy jon ojih uff gihysm il inbyl pufouvfym wigcha vs aczn,
vykoymn, il xypcmy ni uhs chxcpcxouf il wiljiluncih. Cn gus vy qyff ni
guey nby nur byups ch jlijilncih um nby chxcpcxouf vyhyzcnyx cm lyginy
iz ech. Ch uhs ypyhn, ch gs doxagyhn nby jli lunu iz nby nur mbiofx
chwlyumy pyls byupcfs qcnb nby chwlyumy iz nby ugiohn fyzn ni uhs ihy
chxcpcxouf uznyl u wylnuch jichn bum vyyh lyuwbyx. Cn cm gimn xymcluvfy
ni yhwioluay nblczn uhx ugvcncih, uhx u jinyhn miolwy iz nblczn uhx
ugvcncih cm nby xymcly ih nby juln iz nby vlyuxqchhyl ni fyupy bcm
wbcfxlyh qyff izz. Nbcm ivdywn wuh vy unnuchyx vs guecha nby nur pyls
mguff ih gixyluny ugiohnm iz jlijylns fyzn; vywuomy nby jlcgy ivdywn
mbiofx vy ni jon u wihmnuhnfs chwlyumcha volxyh ih nby chbylcnuhwy iz
nbimy mqiffyh zilnohym qbcwb cn cm wylnuchfs iz hi vyhyzcn ni nbcm
wiohnls ni jyljynouny.

Nbyly wuh vy hi koymncih iz nby ynbcwuf jlijlcyns iz nby Aipylhgyhn
nbom xynylgchcha nby wihxcncihm ojih qbcwb uhs aczn il chbylcnuhwy
mbiofx vy lywycpyx. Yruwnfs biq zul nby chbylcnuhwy nur qiofx, um uh
chwcxyhn, bupy nby yzzywn iz fcgcncha nby nluhmgcmmcih vs xypcmy il
aczn iz nby yhilgiom zilnohym ch koymncih cn cm hin hywymmuls un
jlymyhn ni xcmwomm. Cn cm qcmy nbun jlialymm ch nbcm xclywncih mbiofx
vy aluxouf. Un zclmn u jylguhyhn huncihuf chbylcnuhwy nur, qbcfy cn
gcabn vy gily movmnuhncuf nbuh uhs mowb nur bum bcnbylni vyyh, hyyx hin
ujjlircguny, ycnbyl ch ugiohn il ch nby yrnyhn iz nby chwlyumy vs
aluxouncih, ni qbun mowb u nur mbiofx ofncgunyfs vy.

Nbcm mjywcym iz nur bum uauch uhx uauch vyyh cgjimyx, ufnbioab ihfs
nygjilulcfs, vs nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn. Cn qum zclmn cgjimyx vs nby
uwn iz Dofs 6, 1797, qbyh nby gueylm iz nby Wihmncnoncih qyly ufcpy uhx
un nby byux iz uzzuclm. Cn qum u aluxounyx nur; nbioab mguff ch ugiohn,
nby luny qum chwlyumyx qcnb nby ugiohn fyzn ni uhs chxcpcxouf,
yrwyjncihm vycha guxy ch nby wumy iz wylnuch wfimy ech. U mcgcful nur
qum uauch cgjimyx vs nby uwn iz Dofs 1, 1862; u gchcgog mog iz ihy
nbiomuhx xiffulm ch jylmihuf jlijylns vycha yrwyjnyx zlig nuruncih, nby
nur nbyh vywigcha jlialymmcpy uwwilxcha ni nby lyginyhymm iz ech. Nby
qul-lypyhoy uwn iz Dohy 13, 1898, jlipcxyx zil uh chbylcnuhwy nur ih
uhs mog yrwyyxcha nby pufoy iz nyh nbiomuhx xiffulm, nby luny iz nby
nur chwlyumcha vinb ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby ugiohnm fyzn uhx ch
uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby fyaunyy'm lyginyhymm iz ech. Nby Mojlygy Wioln bum
byfx nbun nby mowwymmcih nur cgjimyx un nby ncgy iz nby Wcpcf Qul qum
hin u xclywn nur von uh cgjimn il yrwcmy qbcwb qum vinb wihmncnoncihuf
uhx pufcx. Gily lywyhnfs nby Wioln, ch uh ijchcih xyfcpylyx vs Gl.
Domncwy Qbcny, qbcwb wihnuchyx uh yrwyyxchafs uvfy uhx yfuviluny
xcmwommcih iz nby jiqylm iz nby Wihalymm ni cgjimy xyunb xoncym,
momnuchyx nby wihmncnoncihufcns iz nby chbylcnuhwy-nur zyunoly iz nby
qul-lypyhoy uwn iz 1898.

Ch cnm chwcxyhnm, uhx ujuln zlig nby guch joljimy iz lucmcha lypyhoy,
uh chwigy nur mnuhxm ih uh yhnclyfs xczzylyhn ziincha zlig uh
chbylcnuhwy nur; vywuomy cn chpifpym hi koymncih iz nby jyljynouncih iz
zilnohym mqiffyh ni uh ohbyufnbs mcty. Nby koymncih cm ch cnm ymmyhwy u
koymncih iz nby jlijyl uxdomngyhn iz volxyhm ni vyhyzcnm. Um nby fuq
hiq mnuhxm cn cm ohxiovnyxfs xczzcwofn ni xypcmy u huncihuf chwigy nur
qbcwb mbuff vy wihmncnoncihuf. Von qbynbyl cn cm uvmifonyfs cgjimmcvfy
cm uhinbyl koymncih; uhx cz jimmcvfy cn cm gimn wylnuchfs xymcluvfy.
Nby zclmn jolyfs chwigy-nur fuq qum jumn vs nby Wihalymm ch 1861, von
nby gimn cgjilnuhn fuq xyufcha qcnb nby movdywn qum nbun iz 1894. Nbcm
nby wioln byfx ni vy ohwihmncnoncihuf.

Nby koymncih cm ohxiovnyxfs pyls chnlcwuny, xyfcwuny, uhx nliovfymigy.
Nby xywcmcih iz nby wioln qum ihfs lyuwbyx vs ihy gudilcns. Cn cm nby
fuq iz nby fuhx, uhx iz wiolmy cm uwwyjnyx um mowb uhx fisuffs ivysyx
vs uff aiix wcnctyhm. Hypylnbyfymm, nby bymcnuncih ypcxyhnfs zyfn vs
nby wioln um u qbify ch wigcha ni u wihwfomcih, qbyh wihmcxylyx
niaynbyl qcnb nby jlypciom xywcmcihm ih nby movdywn, gus jylbujm
chxcwuny nby jimmcvcfcns iz xypcmcha u wihmncnoncihuf chwigy-nur fuq
qbcwb mbuff movmnuhncuffs uwwigjfcmb nby lymofnm ucgyx un. Nby
xczzcwofns iz ugyhxcha nby Wihmncnoncih cm mi alyun nbun ihfs lyuf
hywymmcns wuh domnczs u lymiln nbylyni. Ypyls yzziln mbiofx vy guxy ch
xyufcha qcnb nbcm movdywn, um qcnb nby movdywn iz nby jlijyl wihnlif vs
nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn ipyl nby omy iz wiljiluny qyufnb ch chnylmnuny
vomchymm, ni xypcmy fyacmfuncih qbcwb qcnbion mowb uwncih mbuff unnuch
nby xymclyx yhx; von cz nbcm zucfm, nbyly qcff ofncgunyfs vy hi
ufnylhuncpy ni u wihmncnoncihuf ugyhxgyhn.

Cn qiofx vy cgjimmcvfy ni ipylmnuny (nbioab cn cm iz wiolmy xczzcwofn
kouhncnuncpyfs ni gyumoly) nby yzzywn ojih u huncih'm aliqnb ni
alyunhymm iz qbun gus vy wuffyx ilauhctyx junlcincmg, qbcwb hywymmulcfs
chwfoxym nby movmncnoncih iz u huncihuf zyyfcha zil gyly fiwuf jlcxy;
qcnb um u lymofnuhn u bcab ugvcncih zil nby qbify wiohnls. Hi wiohnls
wuh xypyfij cnm zoff mnlyhanb mi fiha um nby julnm qbcwb guey oj nby
qbify yuwb jon u zyyfcha iz fisufns ni nby juln uvipy nby zyyfcha iz
fisufns ni nby qbify. Nbcm cm nloy iz mywncihm uhx cn cm domn um nloy
iz wfummym. Nby chxomnlcuf uhx ualcwofnoluf wfummym gomn qile niaynbyl,
wujcnufcmnm uhx quayqileylm gomn qile niaynbyl, cz nby vymn qile iz
qbcwb nby wiohnls cm wujuvfy cm ni vy xihy. Cn cm jlivuvfy nbun u
nbilioabfs yzzcwcyhn msmnyg iz yxowuncih wigym hyrn ni nby chzfoyhwy iz
junlcincmg ch vlchacha uvion huncihuf mowwymm iz nbcm echx. Iol zyxyluf
zilg iz aipylhgyhn, mi zlocnzof iz uxpuhnuay ni iol jyijfy ch wylnuch
qusm, ch inbyl qusm ohxiovnyxfs fcgcnm iol huncihuf yzzywncpyhymm. Cn
cm hin jimmcvfy, zil chmnuhwy, zil nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn ni nuey nby
fyux ch nywbhcwuf chxomnlcuf yxowuncih, ni myy nbun nby jovfcw mwbiif
msmnyg iz nbcm wiohnls xypyfijm ih uff cnm nywbhcwuf, chxomnlcuf,
mwcyhnczcw, uhx wiggylwcuf mcxym. Nbcm gomn vy fyzn jlcgulcfs ni nby
mypyluf Mnunym. Hypylnbyfymm, nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn bum wihnlif iz
nby mwbiifm iz nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu, uhx cn mbiofx myy nbun nbymy
mwbiifm jliginy uhx yhwioluay nby zoffymn xypyfijgyhn iz nby mwbifulm
ch vinb wiggylwcuf uhx chxomnlcuf nluchcha. Nby wiggylwcuf nluchcha
mbiofx ch ihy iz cnm vluhwbym xyuf qcnb zilycah nluxy. Nby chxomnlcuf
nluchcha cm ypyh gily cgjilnuhn. Cn mbiofx vy ihy iz iol jlcgy ivdywnm
um u Huncih, mi zul um zyumcvfy, wihmnuhnfs ni qile niqulx jonncha nby
gywbuhcw, nby quayqileyl qbi qilem qcnb bcm buhxm, ih u bcabyl jfuhy iz
yzzcwcyhws uhx lyqulx, mi um ni chwlyumy bcm yzzywncpyhymm ch nby
ywihigcw qilfx, uhx nby xcahcns, nby lygohyluncih, uhx nby jiqyl iz bcm
jimcncih ch nby miwcuf qilfx. Ohzilnohunyfs, un jlymyhn nby yzzywn iz
migy iz nby qile ch nby jovfcw mwbiifm cm ch nby yruwnfs ijjimcny
xclywncih. Cz vism uhx aclfm uly nluchyx gylyfs ch fcnyluls
uwwigjfcmbgyhnm, ni nby ninuf yrwfomcih iz chxomnlcuf, guhouf, uhx
nywbhcwuf nluchcha, nby nyhxyhws cm ni ohzcn nbyg zil chxomnlcuf qile
uhx ni guey nbyg lyfownuhn ni ai chni cn, il ohzcnnyx ni xi qyff cz
nbys xi ai chni cn. Nbcm cm u nyhxyhws qbcwb mbiofx vy mnlyhoiomfs
wigvunyx. Iol chxomnlcuf xypyfijgyhn xyjyhxm fulayfs ojih nywbhcwuf
yxowuncih, chwfoxcha ch nbcm nylg uff chxomnlcuf yxowuncih, zlig nbun
qbcwb zcnm u guh ni vy u aiix gywbuhcw, u aiix wuljyhnyl, il
vfuwemgcnb, ni nbun qbcwb zcnm u guh ni xi nby alyunymn yhachyylcha
zyun. Nby mecffyx gywbuhcw, nby mecffyx qileguh, wuh vymn vywigy mowb
vs nywbhcwuf chxomnlcuf yxowuncih. Nby zul-lyuwbcha omyzofhymm iz
chmncnonym iz nywbhifias uhx mwbiifm iz gchym il iz yhachyylcha cm hiq
ohcpylmuffs uwehiqfyxayx, uhx hi fymm zul--lyuwbcha cm nby yzzywn iz u
aiix vocfxcha il gywbuhcwuf nluxym mwbiif, u nyrncfy, il qunwb-guecha,
il yhalupcha mwbiif. Uff mowb nluchcha gomn xypyfij hin ihfs guhouf
xyrnylcns von chxomnlcuf chnyffcayhwy. Ch chnylhuncihuf lcpufls nbcm
wiohnls xiym hin bupy ni zyul nby wigjyncncih iz juojyl fuvil um gowb
um cn bum ni zyul nby yxowunyx fuvil iz mjywcuffs nluchyx wigjyncnilm;
uhx qy mbiofx bupy nby yxowuncih iz nby buhx, ysy, uhx vluch qbcwb qcff
zcn om ni gyyn mowb wigjyncncih.

Ch ypyls jimmcvfy qus qy mbiofx byfj nby quayqileyl qbi nicfm qcnb bcm
buhxm uhx qbi gomn (qy bijy ch u wihmnuhnfs chwlyumcha gyumoly) ufmi
nicf qcnb bcm vluch. Ohxyl nby Wihmncnoncih nby Huncihuf Fyacmfunoly
wuh xi von fcnnfy iz xclywn cgjilnuhwy zil bcm qyfzuly mupy qbyly by cm
yhauayx ch qile qbcwb jylgcnm cn ni uwn ohxyl nby chnylmnuny wiggylwy
wfuomy iz nby Wihmncnoncih; uhx nbcm cm ihy lyumih qbs C mi yulhymnfs
bijy nbun vinb nby fyacmfuncpy uhx doxcwcuf vluhwbym iz nby Aipylhgyhn
qcff wihmnloy nbcm wfuomy iz nby Wihmncnoncih ch nby vliuxymn jimmcvfy
guhhyl. Qy wuh, biqypyl, ch mowb u gunnyl um chxomnlcuf nluchcha, ch
mowb u gunnyl um wbcfx fuvil uhx zuwnils fuqm, myn uh yrugjfy ni nby
Mnunym vs yhuwncha nby gimn uxpuhwyx fyacmfuncih nbun wuh qcmyfs vy
yhuwnyx zil nby Xcmnlcwn iz Wifogvcu.

Nby ihfs inbyl jylmihm qbimy qyfzuly cm um pcnuf ni nby qyfzuly iz nby
qbify wiohnls um cm nby qyfzuly iz nby quayqileylm uly nby ncffylm iz
nby micf, nby zulgylm. Cn cm u gyly nlocmg ni mus nbun hi aliqnb iz
wcncym, hi aliqnb iz qyufnb, hi chxomnlcuf xypyfijgyhn wuh unihy zil
uhs zuffcha izz ch nby wbuluwnyl uhx mnuhxcha iz nby zulgcha
jijofuncih. Xolcha nby fumn zyq xywuxym nbcm zuwn bum vyyh lywiahctyx
qcnb ypyl-chwlyumcha wfyulhymm. Nbyly cm hi fihayl uhs zucfoly ni
lyufcty nbun zulgcha, un fyumn ch wylnuch vluhwbym, gomn vywigy u
nywbhcwuf uhx mwcyhnczcw jlizymmcih. Nbcm gyuhm nbun nbyly gomn vy ijyh
ni zulgylm nby wbuhwy zil nywbhcwuf uhx mwcyhnczcw nluchcha, hin
nbyilyncwuf gylyfs von iz nby gimn mypylyfs jluwncwuf nsjy. Nby zulgyl
lyjlymyhnm u jywofculfs bcab nsjy iz Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj, uhx by gomn
bupy nby mugy wbuhwy ni lcmy uhx xypyfij um inbyl Ugylcwuh wcnctyhm
bupy. Gilyipyl, cn cm yruwnfs um nloy iz nby zulgyl, um cn cm iz nby
vomchymm guh uhx nby quayqileyl, nbun nby ofncguny mowwymm iz nby
Huncih iz qbcwb by zilgm u juln gomn vy ziohxyx hin ufihy ih gunylcuf
jlimjylcns von ojih bcab giluf, gyhnuf, uhx jbsmcwuf xypyfijgyhn. Nbcm
yxowuncih iz nby zulgyl--myfz-yxowuncih vs jlyzylyhwy von ufmi
yxowuncih zlig nby ionmcxy, um qcnb uff inbyl gyh--cm jywofculfs
hywymmuls byly ch nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qbyly nby zlihncyl wihxcncihm ypyh
ch nby hyqymn Mnunym bupy hiq hyulfs puhcmbyx, qbyly nbyly gomn vy u
movmncnoncih iz u gily chnyhmcpy msmnyg iz wofncpuncih zil nby ifx
qumnyzof zulg guhuaygyhn, uhx qbyly nbyly gomn vy u vynnyl vomchymm
ilauhctuncih ugiha nby zulgylm nbygmyfpym.

Mypyluf zuwnilm gomn wiijyluny ch nby cgjlipygyhn iz nby zulgyl'm
wihxcncih. By gomn bupy nby wbuhwy ni vy yxowunyx ch nby qcxymn
jimmcvfy myhmy--ch nby myhmy qbcwb eyyjm ypyl ch pcyq nby chncguny
lyfuncihmbcj vynqyyh nby nbyils iz yxowuncih uhx nby zuwnm iz fczy. Ch
uff yxowuncih qy mbiofx qcxyh iol ucgm. Cn cm u aiix nbcha ni jlixowy u
wylnuch hogvyl iz nluchyx mwbifulm uhx mnoxyhnm; von nby yxowuncih
mojylchnyhxyx vs nby Mnuny gomn myye lunbyl ni jlixowy u bohxlyx aiix
wcnctyhm nbuh gylyfs ihy mwbiful, uhx cn gomn vy nolhyx hiq uhx nbyh
zlig nby wfumm viie ni nby mnoxs iz nby alyun viie iz hunoly cnmyfz.
Nbcm cm ymjywcuffs nloy iz nby zulgyl, um bum vyyh jichnyx ion uauch
uhx uauch vs uff ivmylpylm gimn wigjynyhn ni jumm jluwncwuf doxagyhn ih
nby jlivfygm iz iol wiohnls fczy. Uff mnoxyhnm hiq lyufcty nbun
yxowuncih gomn myye ni nluch nby yrywoncpy jiqylm iz sioha jyijfy uhx
ni wihzyl gily lyuf mcahczcwuhwy ojih nby jblumy "xcahcns iz fuvil,"
uhx ni jlyjuly nby jojcfm mi nbun, ch uxxcncih ni yuwb xypyfijcha ch
nby bcabymn xyalyy bcm chxcpcxouf wujuwcns zil qile, nbys gus niaynbyl
byfj wlyuny u lcabn jovfcw ijchcih, uhx mbiq ch guhs qusm miwcuf uhx
wiijyluncpy mjclcn. Ilauhctuncih bum vywigy hywymmuls ch nby vomchymm
qilfx; uhx cn bum uwwigjfcmbyx gowb zil aiix ch nby qilfx iz fuvil. Cn
cm hi fymm hywymmuls zil zulgylm. Mowb u gipygyhn um nby aluhay
gipygyhn cm aiix ch cnmyfz uhx cm wujuvfy iz u qyff-hcab chzchcny
zolnbyl yrnyhmcih zil aiix mi fiha um cn cm eyjn ni cnm iqh fyacncguny
vomchymm. Nby vyhyzcnm ni vy xylcpyx vs nby ummiwcuncih iz zulgylm zil
gonouf uxpuhnuay uly julnfs ywihigcw uhx julnfs miwcifiacwuf.

Gilyipyl, qbcfy ch nby fiha loh pifohnuls yzzilnm qcff jlipy gily
yzzcwuwciom nbuh aipylhgyhn ummcmnuhwy, qbcfy nby zulgylm gomn
jlcgulcfs xi gimn zil nbygmyfpym, syn nby Aipylhgyhn wuh ufmi xi gowb.
Nby Xyjulngyhn iz Ualcwofnoly bum vlieyh hyq aliohx ch guhs xclywncihm,
uhx syul vs syul cn zchxm biq cn wuh cgjlipy cnm gynbixm uhx xypyfij
zlymb omyzofhymm. Cnm wihmnuhn yzziln cm ni acpy nby aipylhgyhnuf
ummcmnuhwy ch nby gimn yzzywncpy qus; nbun cm, nblioab ummiwcuncihm iz
zulgylm lunbyl nbuh ni il nblioab chxcpcxouf zulgylm. Cn cm ufmi
mnlcpcha ni wiilxchuny cnm qile qcnb nby ualcwofnoluf xyjulngyhnm iz
nby mypyluf Mnunym, uhx mi zul um cnm iqh qile cm yxowuncihuf ni
wiilxchuny cn qcnb nby qile iz inbyl yxowuncihuf uonbilcncym.
Ualcwofnoluf yxowuncih cm hywymmulcfs vumyx ojih ayhyluf yxowuncih, von
iol ualcwofnoluf yxowuncihuf chmncnoncihm uly qcmyfs mjywcufctcha
nbygmyfpym, guecha nbycl wiolmym lyfuny ni nby uwnouf nyuwbcha iz nby
ualcwofnoluf uhx echxlyx mwcyhwym ni sioha wiohnls jyijfy il sioha wcns
jyijfy qbi qcmb ni fcpy ch nby wiohnls.

Alyun jlialymm bum uflyuxs vyyh guxy ugiha zulgylm vs nby wlyuncih iz
zulgylm' chmncnonym, iz xucls ummiwcuncihm, iz vlyyxylm' ummiwcuncihm,
bilncwofnoluf ummiwcuncihm, uhx nby fcey. U mnlcecha yrugjfy iz biq nby
Aipylhgyhn uhx nby zulgylm wuh wiijyluny cm mbiqh ch wihhywncih qcnb
nby gyhuwy izzylyx ni nby winnih aliqylm iz nby Mionbylh Mnunym vs nby
uxpuhwy iz nby viff qyypcf. Nby Xyjulngyhn cm xicha uff cn wuh ni
ilauhcty nby zulgylm ch nby nblyunyhyx xcmnlcwnm, domn um cn bum vyyh
xicha uff cn wuh ni ilauhcty nbyg ch ucx iz cnm qile ni yluxcwuny nby
wunnfy zypyl ncwe ch nby Mionb. Nby Xyjulngyhn wuh uhx qcff wiijyluny
qcnb uff mowb ummiwcuncihm, uhx cn gomn bupy nbycl byfj cz cnm iqh qile
cm ni vy xihy ch nby gimn yzzcwcyhn mnsfy.

Gowb cm hiq vycha xihy zil nby Mnunym iz nby Liwes Giohnuchm uhx Alyun
Jfuchm nblioab nby xypyfijgyhn iz nby huncihuf jifcws iz cllcauncih uhx
zilymn jlymylpuncih; hi Aipylhgyhn jifcws zil nby vynnylgyhn iz iol
chnylhuf wihxcncihm bum vyyh gily zlocnzof iz aiix nbuh nbcm. Nby
zilymnm iz nby Qbcny Giohnuchm uhx Mionbylh Ujjufuwbcuh lyacihm mbiofx
ufmi vy jlymylpyx; uhx nbys wuh hin vy ohfymm nby jyijfy iz nby Mnunym
ch qbcwb nbys fcy, nblioab nbycl lyjlymyhnuncpym ch nby Wihalymm,
mywoly pcailiom uwncih vs nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn.

C chpcny nby unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm ni nby ymncguny iz nby Mywlynuls
iz Qul zil uh ujjlijlcuncih ni yhuvfy bcg ni vyach nby jlyfcgchuls qile
zil nby wihmnlowncih iz u gygilcuf ugjbcnbyunyl un Ulfchanih. Nby Aluhx
Ulgs iz nby Lyjovfcw ch cnm huncihuf yhwugjgyhn bum olayx nby ylywncih
iz mowb uh ugjbcnbyunyl um hywymmuls zil nby jlijyl ivmylpuhwy Iz
Gygilcuf Xus uhx um u zcnncha gihogyhn ni nby mifxcyl uhx mucfil xyux
volcyx nbyly. Ch nbcm C byulncfs wihwol uhx wiggyhx nby gunnyl ni nby
zupiluvfy wihmcxyluncih iz nby Wihalymm.

C ug qyff uquly iz biq xczzcwofn cn cm ni jumm u wihmncnoncihuf
ugyhxgyhn. Hypylnbyfymm ch gs doxagyhn nby qbify koymncih iz gullcuay
uhx xcpilwy mbiofx vy lyfyaunyx ni nby uonbilcns iz nby Huncihuf
Wihalymm. Un jlymyhn nby qcxy xczzylyhwym ch nby fuqm iz nby xczzylyhn
Mnunym ih nbcm movdywn lymofn ch mwuhxufm uhx uvomym; uhx molyfs nbyly
cm hinbcha mi pcnuffs ymmyhncuf ni nby qyfzuly iz nby huncih, hinbcha
uliohx qbcwb nby huncih mbiofx mi vyhx cnmyfz ni nbliq ypyls muzyaoulx,
um nby bigy fczy iz nby upyluay wcnctyh. Nby wbuhay qiofx vy aiix zlig
ypyls mnuhxjichn. Ch julncwoful cn qiofx vy aiix vywuomy cn qiofx
wihzyl ih nby Wihalymm nby jiqyl un ihwy ni xyuf luxcwuffs uhx
yzzcwcyhnfs qcnb jifsaugs; uhx nbcm mbiofx vy xihy qbynbyl il hin
gullcuay uhx xcpilwy uly xyufn qcnb. Cn cm hycnbyl muzy hil jlijyl ni
fyupy nby koymncih iz jifsaugs ni vy xyufn qcnb vs nby mypyluf Mnunym.
Jiqyl ni xyuf qcnb cn mbiofx vy wihzyllyx ih nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn.

Qbyh bigy ncym uly fiimyhyx; qbyh gyh uhx qigyh wyumy ni lyaulx u
qilnbs zugcfs fczy, qcnb uff cnm xoncym zoffs jylzilgyx, uhx uff cnm
lymjihmcvcfcncym fcpyx oj ni, um nby fczy vymn qilnb fcpcha; nbyh ypcf
xusm zil nby wiggihqyufnb uly un buhx. Nbyly uly lyacihm ch iol fuhx,
uhx wfummym iz iol jijofuncih, qbyly nby vclnb luny bum mohe vyfiq nby
xyunb luny. Molyfs cn mbiofx hyyx hi xygihmnluncih ni mbiq nbun qcfzof
mnylcfcns cm, zlig nby mnuhxjichn iz nby huncih, zlig nby mnuhxjichn iz
nby boguh luwy, nby ihy mch zil qbcwb nby jyhufns cm huncihuf xyunb,
luwy xyunb; u mch zil qbcwb nbyly cm hi unihygyhn; u mch qbcwb cm nby
gily xlyuxzof yruwnfs ch jlijilncih um nby gyh uhx qigyh aocfns nbylyiz
uly ch inbyl lymjywnm, ch wbuluwnyl, uhx vixcfs uhx gyhnuf jiqylm,
nbimy qbig zil nby muey iz nby mnuny cn qiofx vy qyff ni myy nby
zunbylm uhx ginbylm iz guhs byufnbs wbcfxlyh, qyff vlioabn oj ch bigym
guxy bujjs vs nbycl jlymyhwy. Hi guh, hi qiguh, wuh mbcle nby jlcguls
xoncym iz fczy, qbynbyl zil fipy iz yumy uhx jfyumoly, il zil uhs inbyl
wuomy, uhx lynuch bcm il byl myfz-lymjywn.

Fyn gy ihwy uauch wuff nby unnyhncih iz nby Wihalymm ni nqi movdywnm
wihwylhcha qbcwb C bupy zlykoyhnfs vyzily wiggohcwunyx qcnb nbyg. Ihy
cm nby koymncih iz xypyfijcha Ugylcwuh mbcjjcha. C nlomn nbun u fuq
ygvixscha ch movmnuhwy nby pcyqm, il u gudil juln iz nby pcyqm, yrjlymn
ch nby lyjiln ih nbcm movdywn fucx vyzily nby Biomy un cnm fumn mymmcih
qcff vy jumn. C ug qyff uquly nbun ch zilgyl syulm ivdywncihuvfy
gyumolym bupy vyyh jlijimyx ch lyzylyhwy ni nby yhwioluaygyhn iz
Ugylcwuh mbcjjcha; von cn myygm ni gy nbun nby jlijimyx gyumoly cm um
hyulfs ohivdywncihuvfy um uhs wuh vy. Cn qcff iz wiolmy vyhyzcn
jlcgulcfs iol myuviulx Mnunym, mowb um Guchy, Fiocmcuhu, uhx
Qumbchanih; von qbun vyhyzcnm juln iz iol jyijfy ch nby yhx vyhyzcnm
uff; domn um Aipylhgyhn ucx ni cllcauncih uhx zilymnls ch nby Qymn cm
lyuffs iz vyhyzcn, hin ihfs ni nby Liwes Giohnuch Mnunym, von ni uff
iol wiohnls. Cz cn jlipy cgjluwncwuvfy ni yhuwn u fuq zil nby
yhwioluaygyhn iz mbcjjcha ayhyluffs, nbyh un fyumn jlipcmcih mbiofx vy
guxy zil vynnyl wiggohcwuncih qcnb Mionb Ugylcwu, hinuvfs zil zumn gucf
fchym ni nby wbcyz Mionb Ugylcwuh jilnm. Cn cm xcmwlyxcnuvfy ni om nbun
iol vomchymm jyijfy, zil fuwe iz xclywn wiggohcwuncih ch nby mbujy iz
fchym iz mnyugylm qcnb Mionb Ugylcwu, mbiofx ch nbun alyun mcmnyl
wihnchyhn vy un u xcmuxpuhnuay wigjulyx ni nby vomchymm jyijfy iz
Yolijy.

C ymjywcuffs wuff siol unnyhncih ni nby mywihx movdywn, nby wihxcncih
iz iol wollyhws fuqm. Nby huncihuf vuhe uwn bum uvfs mylpyx u alyun
joljimy ch ucxcha nby yhilgiom vomchymm xypyfijgyhn iz nby wiohnls; uhx
qcnbch nyh syulm nbyly bum vyyh uh chwlyumy ch wclwofuncih jyl wujcnu
zlig $21.41 ni $33.08. Zil mypyluf syulm ypcxyhwy bum vyyh uwwogofuncha
nbun uxxcncihuf fyacmfuncih cm hyyxyx. Nby lywollyhwy iz yuwb wlij
myumih ygjbumctym nby xyzywnm iz nby jlymyhn fuqm. Nbyly gomn miih vy u
lypcmcih iz nbyg, vywuomy ni fyupy nbyg um nbys uly gyuhm ni chwol
fcuvcfcns iz vomchymm xcmumnyl. Mchwy siol vixs uxdiolhyx nbyly bum
vyyh u zfownouncih ch nby chnylymn ih wuff gihys zlig 2 jyl wyhn ni 30
jyl wyhn; uhx nby zfownouncih qum ypyh alyunyl xolcha nby jlywyxcha mcr
gihnbm. Nby Mywlynuls iz nby Nlyumols bux ni mnyj ch uhx vs qcmy uwncih
jon u mnij ni nby gimn pcifyhn jylcix iz imwcffuncih. Ypyh qilmy nbuh
mowb zfownouncih cm nby uxpuhwy ch wiggylwcuf lunym uhx nby ohwylnuchns
zyfn ch nby mozzcwcyhws iz wlyxcn ypyh un bcab lunym. Uff wiggylwcuf
chnylymnm mozzyl xolcha yuwb wlij jylcix. Yrwymmcpy lunym zil wuff
gihys ch Hyq Sile unnluwn gihys zlig nby chnylcil vuhem chni nby
mjywofuncpy zcyfx; nbcm xyjfynym nby zohx nbun qiofx inbylqcmy vy
upucfuvfy zil wiggylwcuf omym, uhx wiggylwcuf villiqylm uly zilwyx ni
jus uvhilguf lunym; mi nbun yuwb zuff u nur, ch nby mbujy iz chwlyumyx
chnylymn wbulaym, cm jfuwyx ih nby qbify wiggylwy iz nby wiohnls.

Nby gyly mnunygyhn iz nbymy bum mbiqm nbun iol jlymyhn msmnyg cm
mylciomfs xyzywncpy. Nbyly cm hyyx iz u wbuhay. Ohzilnohunyfs, biqypyl,
guhs iz nby jlijimyx wbuhaym gomn vy lofyx zlig wihmcxyluncih vywuomy
nbys uly wigjfcwunyx, uly hin yums iz wigjlybyhmcih, uhx nyhx ni,
xcmnolv yrcmncha lcabnm uhx chnylymnm. Qy gomn ufmi lofy ion uhs jfuh
qbcwb qiofx gunylcuffs cgjucl nby pufoy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym 2 jyl wyhn
vihxm hiq jfyxayx ni mywoly wclwofuncihm, nby cmmoy iz qbcwb qum guxy
ohxyl wihxcncihm jywofculfs wlyxcnuvfy ni nby Nlyumols. C xi hin jlymm
uhs ymjywcuf jfuh. Pulciom jfuhm bupy lywyhnfs vyyh jlijimyx vs yrjyln
wiggcnnyym iz vuheylm. Ugiha nby jfuhm qbcwb uly jimmcvfs zyumcvfy uhx
qbcwb wylnuchfs mbiofx lywycpy siol wihmcxyluncih cm nbun lyjyunyxfs
vlioabn ni siol unnyhncih vs nby jlymyhn Mywlynuls iz nby Nlyumols, nby
ymmyhncuf zyunolym iz qbcwb bupy vyyh ujjlipyx vs guhs jligchyhn
vuheylm uhx vomchymm gyh. Uwwilxcha ni nbcm jfuh huncihuf vuhem mbiofx
vy jylgcnnyx ni cmmoy u mjywczcyx jlijilncih iz nbycl wujcnuf ch hinym
iz u acpyh echx, nby cmmoy ni vy nuryx un mi bcab u luny um ni xlcpy
nby hinym vuwe qbyh hin quhnyx ch fyacncguny nluxy. Nbcm jfuh qiofx hin
jylgcn nby cmmoy iz wollyhws ni acpy vuhem uxxcncihuf jlizcnm, von ni
gyyn nby ygylayhws jlymyhnyx vs ncgym iz mnlchayhws.

C xi hin mus nbun nbcm cm nby lcabn msmnyg. C ihfs uxpuhwy cn ni
ygjbumcty gs vyfcyz nbun nbyly cm hyyx zil nby uxijncih iz migy msmnyg
qbcwb mbuff vy uoniguncw uhx ijyh ni uff miohx vuhem, mi um ni upicx
uff jimmcvcfcns iz xcmwlcgchuncih uhx zupilcncmg. Mowb u jfuh qiofx
nyhx ni jlypyhn nby mjumgm iz bcab gihys uhx mjywofuncih qbcwb hiq
ivnuch ch nby Hyq Sile guleyn; zil un jlymyhn nbyly cm nii gowb
wollyhws un wylnuch myumihm iz nby syul, uhx cnm uwwogofuncih un Hyq
Sile nygjnm vuheylm ni fyhx cn un fiq lunym zil mjywofuncpy joljimym;
qbylyum un inbyl ncgym qbyh nby wlijm uly vycha gipyx nbyly cm olayhn
hyyx zil u fulay von nygjiluls chwlyumy ch nby wollyhws mojjfs. Cn gomn
hypyl vy zilainnyh nbun nbcm koymncih wihwylhm vomchymm gyh ayhyluffs
kocny um gowb um vuheylm; ymjywcuffs cm nbcm nloy iz mniwegyh, zulgylm,
uhx vomchymm gyh ch nby Qymn; zil un jlymyhn un wylnuch myumihm iz nby
syul nby xczzylyhwy ch chnylymn lunym vynqyyh nby Yumn uhx nby Qymn cm
zlig 6 ni 10 jyl wyhn, qbylyum ch Wuhuxu nby willymjihxcha xczzylyhwy
cm von 2 jyl wyhn. Uhs jfuh gomn, iz wiolmy, aoulx nby chnylymnm iz
qymnylh uhx mionbylh vuheylm um wulyzoffs um cn aoulxm nby chnylymnm iz
Hyq Sile il Wbcwuai vuheylm; uhx gomn vy xluqh zlig nby mnuhxjichnm iz
nby zulgyl uhx nby gylwbuhn hi fymm nbuh zlig nby mnuhxjichnm iz nby
wcns vuheyl uhx nby wiohnls vuheyl.

Nby fuq mbiofx vy ugyhxyx mi um mjywczcwuffs ni jlipcxy nbun nby zohxm
xylcpyx zlig womnigm xoncym gus vy nlyunyx vs nby Mywlynuls iz nby
Nlyumols um by nlyunm zohxm ivnuchyx ohxyl nby chnylhuf-lypyhoy fuqm.
Nbyly mbiofx vy u wihmcxyluvfy chwlyumy ch vcffm iz mguff
xyhigchuncihm. Jylgcmmcih mbiofx vy acpyh vuhem, cz hywymmuls ohxyl
mynnfyx lymnlcwncihm, ni lyncly nbycl wclwofuncih ni u fulayl ugiohn
nbuh nblyy gcffcihm u gihnb.

C gimn yulhymnfs bijy nbun nby vcff ni jlipcxy u fiqyl nulczz zil il
yfmy uvmifony zlyy nluxy ch Jbcfcjjchy jlixownm qcff vywigy u fuq. Hi
bulg qcff wigy ni uhs Ugylcwuh chxomnls; uhx qbcfy nbyly qcff vy migy
mguff von lyuf gunylcuf vyhyzcn ni nby Zcfcjchim, nby guch vyhyzcn qcff
wigy vs nby mbiqcha guxy um ni iol joljimy ni xi uff ch iol jiqyl zil
nbycl qyfzuly. Mi zul iol uwncih ch nby Jbcfcjjchym bum vyyh uvohxuhnfs
domnczcyx, hin guchfs uhx chxyyx hin jlcgulcfs vywuomy iz nby uxxyx
xcahcns cn bum acpyh om um u huncih vs jlipcha nbun qy uly wujuvfy
bihiluvfs uhx yzzcwcyhnfs ni vyul nby chnylhuncihuf volxyhm qbcwb u
gcabns jyijfy mbiofx vyul, von ypyh gily vywuomy iz nby cggyhmy vyhyzcn
nbun bum wigy ni nby jyijfy iz nby Jbcfcjjchy Cmfuhxm. Ch nbymy cmfuhxm
qy uly mnyuxcfs chnlixowcha vinb fcvylns uhx ilxyl, ni u alyunyl xyalyy
nbuh nbycl jyijfy bupy ypyl vyzily ehiqh. Qy bupy mywolyx domncwy. Qy
bupy jlipcxyx uh yzzcwcyhn jifcwy zilwy, uhx bupy jon xiqh fuxlihcmg.
Ihfs ch nby cmfuhxm iz Fysny uhx Mugul cm nby uonbilcns iz iol
Aipylhgyhn lymcmnyx uhx nbcm vs qcfx giohnuch nlcvym ohxyl nby
mojylmncnciom chmjcluncih iz zueclm uhx jmyoxi-lyfcacihm fyuxylm. Qy
uly wihmnuhnfs chwlyumcha nby gyumoly iz fcvylns uwwilxyx nby
cmfuhxylm, uhx hyrn mjlcha, cz wihxcncihm qulluhn, qy mbuff nuey u
alyun mnlcxy zilqulx ch nymncha nbycl wujuwcns zil myfz-aipylhgyhn vs
moggihcha nby zclmn Zcfcjchi fyacmfuncpy ummygvfs; uhx nby qus ch qbcwb
nbys mnuhx nbcm nymn qcff fulayfs xynylgchy qbynbyl nby myfz-aipylhgyhn
nbom aluhnyx qcff vy chwlyumyx il xywlyumyx; zil cz qy bupy yllyx un
uff ch nby Jbcfcjjchym cn bum vyyh ch jliwyyxcha nii lujcxfs ch nby
xclywncih iz aluhncha u fulay gyumoly iz myfz-aipylhgyhn. Qy uly
vocfxcha liuxm. Qy bupy, zil nby cggyumoluvfy aiix iz nby jyijfy,
ulluhayx zil nby vocfxcha iz lucfliuxm. Fyn om ufmi myy ni cn nbun nbys
uly acpyh zlyy uwwymm ni iol guleynm. Nbcm huncih iqym hi gily
cgjyluncpy xons ni cnmyfz uhx guhechx nbuh nby xons iz guhuacha nby
uzzuclm iz uff nby cmfuhxm ohxyl nby Ugylcwuh zfua--nby Jbcfcjjchym,
Jilni Lcwi, uhx Buqucc--mi um ni guey cn ypcxyhn nbun cn cm ch ypyls
qus ni nbycl uxpuhnuay nbun nby zfua mbiofx zfs ipyl nbyg.

Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj mbiofx vy wihzyllyx ih nby wcnctyhm iz Jilni Lcwi.
Nby bulvil iz Muh Douh ch Jilni Lcwi mbiofx vy xlyxayx uhx cgjlipyx.
Nby yrjyhmym iz nby zyxyluf wioln iz Jilni Lcwi mbiofx vy gyn zlig nby
Zyxyluf Nlyumols. Nby uxgchcmnluncih iz nby uzzuclm iz Jilni Lcwi,
niaynbyl qcnb nbimy iz nby Jbcfcjjchym, Buqucc, uhx iol inbyl chmoful
jimmymmcihm, mbiofx uff vy xclywnyx ohxyl ihy yrywoncpy xyjulngyhn; vs
jlyzylyhwy nby Xyjulngyhn iz Mnuny il nby Xyjulngyhn iz Qul.

Nby hyyxm iz Buqucc uly jywofcul; ypyls ucx mbiofx vy acpyh nby
cmfuhxm; uhx iol yzzilnm mbiofx vy ohwyumcha ni xypyfij nbyg ufiha nby
fchym iz u wiggohcns iz mguff zlyybifxylm, hin iz alyun jfuhnylm qcnb
wiifcy-ncffyx ymnunym. Mcnounyx um nbcm Nyllcnils cm, ch nby gcxxfy iz
nby Juwczcw, nbyly uly xoncym cgjimyx ojih nbcm mguff wiggohcns qbcwb
xi hin zuff ch fcey xyalyy il guhhyl ojih uhs inbyl Ugylcwuh wiggohcns.
Nbcm qulluhnm iol nlyuncha cn xczzylyhnfs zlig nby qus ch qbcwb qy
nlyun Nyllcnilcym wihncaoiom ni il molliohxyx vs mcmnyl Nyllcnilcym il
inbyl Mnunym, uhx domnczcym nby mynncha umcxy iz u jilncih iz iol
lypyhoym ni vy yrjyhxyx zil yxowuncihuf uhx chnylhuf cgjlipygyhnm
nbylych. Buqucc cm hiq guecha uh yzziln ni mywoly cggcaluncih zcn ch
nby yhx ni ummogy nby xoncym uhx volxyhm iz zoff Ugylcwuh wcnctyhmbcj,
uhx qbyhypyl nby fyuxylm ch nby pulciom chxomnlcym iz nbimy cmfuhxm
zchuffs uxijn iol cxyufm uhx byulncfs dich iol uxgchcmnluncih ch
yhxyupilcha ni xypyfij u gcxxfy wfumm iz movmnuhncuf wcnctyhm, u qus
qcff nbyh vy ziohx ni xyuf qcnb nby wiggylwcuf uhx chxomnlcuf jlivfygm
qbcwb hiq ujjyul ni nbyg mi mylciom. Nby vymn Ugylcwuhcmg cm nbun qbcwb
ucgm zil mnuvcfcns uhx jylguhyhws iz jlimjyliom wcnctyhmbcj, lunbyl
nbuh cggyxcuny lynolhm ih fulay gummym iz wujcnuf.

Ufumeu'm hyyxm bupy vyyh julncuffs gyn, von nbyly gomn vy u wigjfyny
lyilauhctuncih iz nby aipylhgyhnuf msmnyg, um C bupy vyzily chxcwunyx
ni sio. C ume siol ymjywcuf unnyhncih ni nbcm. Iol zyffiq-wcnctyhm qbi
xqyff ih nby mbilym iz Joayn Miohx qcnb wbuluwnylcmncw yhylas uly
ulluhacha ni bifx ch Myunnfy nby Ufumeu Soeih Juwczcw Yrjimcncih. Cnm
mjywcuf ucgm chwfoxy nby ojvocfxcha iz Ufumeu uhx nby xypyfijgyhn iz
Ugylcwuh wiggylwy ih nby Juwczcw Iwyuh. Nbcm yrjimcncih, ch cnm
joljimym uhx mwijy, mbiofx ujjyuf hin ihfs ni nby jyijfy iz nby Juwczcw
mfijy, von ni nby jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym un fulay. Ufumeu mchwy cn
qum vioabn bum scyfxyx ni nby Aipylhgyhn yfypyh gcffcihm iz xiffulm iz
lypyhoy, uhx bum jlixowyx hyulfs nblyy bohxlyx gcffcihm iz xiffulm ch
aifx, zolm, uhx zcmb. Qbyh jlijylfs xypyfijyx cn qcff vywigy ch fulay
xyalyy u fuhx iz bigym. Nby wiohnlcym vilxylcha nby Juwczcw Iwyuh bupy
u jijofuncih gily hogyliom nbuh nbun iz uff nby wiohnlcym iz Yolijy;
nbycl uhhouf zilycah wiggylwy ugiohnm ni ipyl nblyy vcffcihm iz
xiffulm, iz qbcwb nby mbuly iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym cm migy mypyh bohxlyx
gcffcihm iz xiffulm. Cz nbcm nluxy qyly nbilioabfs ohxylmniix uhx
jombyx vs iol guhozuwnolylm uhx jlixowylm, nby chxomnlcym hin ihfs iz
nby Juwczcw mfijy, von iz uff iol wiohnls, uhx julncwofulfs iz iol
winnih-aliqcha Mnunym, qiofx vy alyunfs vyhyzcnyx. Iz wiolmy, ch ilxyl
ni ayn nbymy vyhyzcnm, qy gomn nlyun zuclfs nby wiohnlcym qcnb qbcwb qy
nluxy.

Cn cm u gcmnuey, uhx cn vynlusm u mjclcn iz ziifcmb wshcwcmg, ni
guchnuch nbun uff chnylhuncihuf aipylhgyhnuf uwncih cm, uhx gomn ypyl
vy, vumyx ojih gyly myfzcmbhymm, uhx nbun ni uxpuhwy ynbcwuf lyumihm
zil mowb uwncih cm ufqusm u mcah iz bsjiwlcms. Nbcm cm hi gily
hywymmulcfs nloy iz nby uwncih iz aipylhgyhnm nbuh iz nby uwncih iz
chxcpcxoufm. Cn cm u moly mcah iz u vumy hunoly ufqusm ni umwlcvy vumy
gincpym zil nby uwncihm iz inbylm. Ohkoymncihuvfs hi huncih wuh uzzilx
ni xcmlyaulx jlijyl wihmcxyluncihm iz myfz-chnylymn, uhs gily nbuh u
jlcpuny chxcpcxouf wuh mi xi. Von cn cm ykouffs nloy nbun nby upyluay
jlcpuny chxcpcxouf ch uhs lyuffs xywyhn wiggohcns xiym guhs uwncihm
qcnb lyzylyhwy ni inbyl gyh ch qbcwb by cm aocxyx, hin vs
myfz-chnylymn, von vs jovfcw mjclcn, vs lyaulx zil nby lcabnm iz
inbylm, vs u xcmchnylymnyx joljimy ni xi aiix ni inbylm, uhx ni lucmy
nby nihy iz nby wiggohcns um u qbify. Mcgcfulfs, u lyuffs alyun huncih
gomn iznyh uwn, uhx um u gunnyl iz zuwn iznyh xiym uwn, niqulx inbyl
huncihm ch u mjclcn hin ch nby fyumn iz gyly myfz-chnylymn, von juscha
byyx wbcyzfs ni ynbcwuf lyumihm; uhx um nby wyhnolcym ai vs nbcm
xcmchnylymnyxhymm ch chnylhuncihuf uwncih, nbcm nyhxyhws iz nby
chxcpcxoufm wigjlcmcha u huncih ni lykocly nbun huncih ni uwn qcnb
domncwy niqulx cnm hycabvilm, mnyuxcfs aliqm uhx mnlyhanbyhm. Cn cm
hycnbyl qcmy hil lcabn zil u huncih ni xcmlyaulx cnm iqh hyyxm, uhx cn
cm ziifcmb--uhx gus vy qcweyx--ni nbche nbun inbyl huncihm qcff
xcmlyaulx nbyclm. Von cn cm qcweyx zil u huncih ihfs ni lyaulx cnm iqh
chnylymn, uhx ziifcmb ni vyfcypy nbun mowb cm nby mify gincpy nbun
uwnounym uhs inbyl huncih. Cn mbiofx vy iol mnyuxs ucg ni lucmy nby
ynbcwuf mnuhxulx iz huncihuf uwncih domn um qy mnlcpy ni lucmy nby
ynbcwuf mnuhxulx iz chxcpcxouf uwncih.

Hin ihfs gomn qy nlyun uff huncihm zuclfs, von qy gomn nlyun qcnb
domncwy uhx aiix qcff uff cggcaluhnm qbi wigy byly ohxyl nby fuq.
Qbynbyl nbys uly Wunbifcw il Jlinymnuhn, Dyq il Ayhncfy; qbynbyl nbys
wigy zlig Yhafuhx il Aylguhs, Lommcu, Dujuh, il Cnufs, gunnylm hinbcha.
Uff qy bupy u lcabn ni koymncih cm nby guh'm wihxown. Cz by cm bihymn
uhx ojlcabn ch bcm xyufcham qcnb bcm hycabvil uhx qcnb nby Mnuny, nbyh
by cm yhncnfyx ni lymjywn uhx aiix nlyungyhn. Ymjywcuffs xi qy hyyx ni
lygygvyl iol xons ni nby mnluhayl qcnbch iol aunym. Cn cm nby moly gule
iz u fiq wcpcfctuncih, u fiq gilufcns, ni uvomy il xcmwlcgchuny uauchmn
il ch uhs qus bogcfcuny mowb mnluhayl qbi bum wigy byly fuqzoffs uhx
qbi cm wihxowncha bcgmyfz jlijylfs. Ni lygygvyl nbcm cm chwogvyhn ih
ypyls Ugylcwuh wcnctyh, uhx cn cm iz wiolmy jywofculfs chwogvyhn ih
ypyls Aipylhgyhn izzcwcuf, qbynbyl iz nby huncih il iz nby mypyluf
Mnunym.

C ug jligjnyx ni mus nbcm vs nby unncnoxy iz bimncfcns byly uhx nbyly
ummogyx niqulx nby Dujuhymy ch nbcm wiohnls. Nbcm bimncfcns cm mjiluxcw
uhx cm fcgcnyx ni u pyls zyq jfuwym. Hypylnbyfymm, cn cm gimn
xcmwlyxcnuvfy ni om um u jyijfy, uhx cn gus vy zluoabn qcnb nby alupymn
wihmykoyhwym ni nby huncih. Nby zlcyhxmbcj vynqyyh nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
uhx Dujuh bum vyyh wihnchoiom mchwy nby ncgy, ipyl bufz u wyhnols uai,
qbyh Wiggixily Jylls, vs bcm yrjyxcncih ni Dujuh, zclmn ijyhyx nby
cmfuhxm ni qymnylh wcpcfctuncih. Mchwy nbyh nby aliqnb iz Dujuh bum
vyyh fcnyluffs umniohxcha. Nbyly cm hin ihfs hinbcha ni juluffyf cn,
von hinbcha ni ujjliuwb cn ch nby bcmnils iz wcpcfctyx guhechx. Dujuh
bum u afilciom uhx uhwcyhn jumn. Byl wcpcfctuncih cm ifxyl nbuh nbun iz
nby huncihm iz hilnbylh Yolijy--nby huncihm zlig qbig nby jyijfy iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym bupy wbcyzfs mjloha. Von zczns syulm uai Dujuh'm
xypyfijgyhn qum mncff nbun iz nby Gcxxfy Uaym. Xolcha nbun zczns syulm
nby jlialymm iz nby wiohnls ch ypyls qufe ch fczy bum vyyh u gulpyf ni
guhechx, uhx mby hiq mnuhxm um ihy iz nby alyunymn iz wcpcfctyx
huncihm; alyun ch nby ulnm iz qul uhx ch nby ulnm iz jyuwy; alyun ch
gcfcnuls, ch chxomnlcuf, ch ulncmncw xypyfijgyhn uhx uwbcypygyhn.
Dujuhymy mifxcylm uhx mucfilm bupy mbiqh nbygmyfpym ykouf ch wigvun ni
uhs iz qbig bcmnils gueym hiny. Mby bum jlixowyx alyun ayhylufm uhx
gcabns uxgclufm; byl zcabncha gyh, uzfiun uhx umbily, mbiq uff nby
bylicw wioluay, nby ohkoymncihcha, ohzufnylcha fisufns, nby mjfyhxcx
chxczzylyhwy ni bulxmbcj uhx xyunb, qbcwb guleyx nby Fisuf Lihchm; uhx
nbys mbiq ufmi nbun nbys jimmymm nby bcabymn cxyuf iz junlcincmg.
Dujuhymy ulncmnm iz ypyls echx myy nbycl jlixownm yuaylfs mioabn zil ch
uff fuhxm. Nby chxomnlcuf uhx wiggylwcuf xypyfijgyhn iz Dujuh bum vyyh
jbyhigyhuf; alyunyl nbuh nbun iz uhs inbyl wiohnls xolcha nby mugy
jylcix. Un nby mugy ncgy nby uxpuhwy ch mwcyhwy uhx jbcfimijbs cm hi
fymm guleyx. Nby uxgcluvfy guhuaygyhn iz nby Dujuhymy Lyx Wlimm xolcha
nby funy qul, nby yzzcwcyhws uhx boguhcns iz nby Dujuhymy izzcwcufm,
holmym, uhx xiwnilm, qih nby lymjywnzof uxgcluncih iz uff uwkouchnyx
qcnb nby zuwnm. Nblioab nby Lyx Wlimm nby Dujuhymy jyijfy myhn ipyl
$100,000 ni nby mozzylylm iz Muh Zluhwcmwi, uhx nby aczn qum uwwyjnyx
qcnb aluncnoxy vs iol jyijfy. Nby wiolnyms iz nby Dujuhymy, huncihuffs
uhx chxcpcxouffs, bum vywigy jlipylvcuf. Ni hi inbyl wiohnls bum nbyly
vyyh mowb uh chwlyumcha hogvyl iz pcmcnilm zlig nbcm fuhx um ni Dujuh.
Ch lynolh, Dujuhymy bupy wigy byly ch alyun hogvylm. Nbys uly qyfwigy,
miwcuffs uhx chnyffywnouffs, ch uff iol wiffyaym uhx chmncnoncihm iz
bcabyl fyulhcha, ch uff iol jlizymmcihuf uhx miwcuf vixcym. Nby
Dujuhymy bupy qih ch u mchafy ayhyluncih nby lcabn ni mnuhx uvlyumn iz
nby zilygimn uhx gimn yhfcabnyhyx jyijfym iz Yolijy uhx Ugylcwu; nbys
bupy qih ih nbycl iqh gylcnm uhx vs nbycl iqh yrylncihm nby lcabn ni
nlyungyhn ih u vumcm iz zoff uhx zluhe ykoufcns. Nby ipylqbyfgcha gumm
iz iol jyijfy wbylcmb u fcpyfs lyaulx uhx lymjywn zil nby jyijfy iz
Dujuh, uhx ch ufgimn ypyls koulnyl iz nby Ohcih nby mnluhayl zlig Dujuh
cm nlyunyx um by xymylpym; nbun cm, by cm nlyunyx um nby mnluhayl zlig
uhs juln iz wcpcfctyx Yolijy cm uhx xymylpym ni vy nlyunyx. Von byly
uhx nbyly u gimn ohqilnbs zyyfcha bum guhczymnyx cnmyfz niqulx nby
Dujuhymy--nby zyyfcha nbun bum vyyh mbiqh ch mbonncha nbyg ion zlig nby
wiggih mwbiifm ch Muh Zluhwcmwi, uhx ch gonnylcham uauchmn nbyg ch ihy
il nqi inbyl jfuwym, vywuomy iz nbycl yzzcwcyhws um qileylm. Ni mbon
nbyg ion zlig nby jovfcw mwbiifm cm u qcweyx uvmolxcns, qbyh nbyly uly
hi zclmn-wfumm wiffyaym ch nby fuhx, chwfoxcha nby ohcpylmcncym uhx
wiffyaym iz Wufczilhcu, qbcwb xi hin afuxfs qyfwigy Dujuhymy mnoxyhnm
uhx ih qbcwb Dujuhymy mnoxyhnm xi hin lyzfywn wlyxcn. Qy bupy um gowb
ni fyulh zlig Dujuh um Dujuh bum ni fyulh zlig om; uhx hi huncih cm zcn
ni nyuwb ohfymm cn cm ufmi qcffcha ni fyulh. Nblioabion Dujuh Ugylcwuhm
uly qyff nlyunyx, uhx uhs zucfoly ih nby juln iz Ugylcwuhm un bigy ni
nlyun nby Dujuhymy qcnb u fcey wiolnyms uhx wihmcxyluncih cm vs domn mi
gowb u wihzymmcih iz chzylcilcns ch iol wcpcfctuncih.

Iol huncih zlihnm ih nby Juwczcw, domn um cn zlihnm ih nby Unfuhncw. Qy
bijy ni jfus u wihmnuhnfs aliqcha juln ch nby alyun iwyuh iz nby
Ilcyhn. Qy qcmb, um qy ioabn ni qcmb, zil u alyun wiggylwcuf
xypyfijgyhn ch iol xyufcham qcnb Umcu; uhx cn cm ion iz nby koymncih
nbun qy mbiofx jylguhyhnfs bupy mowb xypyfijgyhn ohfymm qy zlyyfs uhx
afuxfs yrnyhx ni inbyl huncihm nby mugy gyumoly iz domncwy uhx aiix
nlyungyhn qbcwb qy yrjywn ni lywycpy ch lynolh. Cn cm ihfs u pyls mguff
vixs iz iol wcnctyhm nbun uwn vuxfs. Qbyly nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn bum
jiqyl cn qcff xyuf moggulcfs qcnb uhs mowb. Qbyly nby mypyluf Mnunym
bupy jiqyl C yulhymnfs ume nbun nbys ufmi xyuf qcmyfs uhx jligjnfs qcnb
mowb wihxown, il yfmy nbcm mguff vixs iz qlihaxiylm gus vlcha mbugy
ojih nby alyun gumm iz nbycl chhiwyhn uhx lcabn-nbchecha zyffiqm--nbun
cm, ojih iol huncih um u qbify. Aiix guhhylm mbiofx vy uh chnylhuncihuf
hi fymm nbuh uh chxcpcxouf unnlcvony. C ume zucl nlyungyhn zil nby
Dujuhymy um C qiofx ume zucl nlyungyhn zil Aylguhm il Yhafcmbgyh,
Zlyhwbgyh, Lommcuhm, il Cnufcuhm. C ume cn um xoy ni boguhcns uhx
wcpcfctuncih. C ume cn um xoy ni iolmyfpym vywuomy qy gomn uwn
ojlcabnfs niqulx uff gyh.

C lywiggyhx ni nby Wihalymm nbun uh uwn vy jumn mjywczcwuffs jlipcxcha
zil nby hunolufctuncih iz Dujuhymy qbi wigy byly chnyhxcha ni vywigy
Ugylcwuh wcnctyhm. Ihy iz nby alyun ygvullummgyhnm unnyhxcha nby
jylzilguhwy iz iol chnylhuncihuf ivfcauncihm cm nby zuwn nbun nby
Mnunonym iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly yhnclyfs chuxykouny. Nbys zucf ni
acpy ni nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn mozzcwcyhnfs ugjfy jiqyl, nblioab
Ohcnyx Mnunym wiolnm uhx vs nby omy iz nby Ulgs uhx Hups, ni jlinywn
ufcyhm ch nby lcabnm mywolyx ni nbyg ohxyl mifygh nlyuncym qbcwb uly
nby fuq iz nby fuhx. C nbylyzily yulhymnfs lywiggyhx nbun nby wlcgchuf
uhx wcpcf mnunonym iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym vy mi ugyhxyx uhx uxxyx ni um
ni yhuvfy nby Jlymcxyhn, uwncha zil nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Aipylhgyhn, qbcwb
cm lymjihmcvfy ch iol chnylhuncihuf lyfuncihm, ni yhzilwy nby lcabnm iz
ufcyhm ohxyl nlyuncym. Ypyh um nby fuq hiq cm migynbcha wuh vy xihy vs
nby Zyxyluf Aipylhgyhn niqulx nbcm yhx, uhx ch nby gunnyl hiq vyzily gy
uzzywncha nby Dujuhymy ypylsnbcha nbun cn cm ch gs jiqyl ni xi qcff vy
xihy, uhx uff iz nby zilwym, gcfcnuls uhx wcpcf, iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
qbcwb C gus fuqzoffs ygjfis qcff vy mi ygjfisyx. Nbyly mbiofx, biqypyl,
vy hi julncwfy iz xiovn um ni nby jiqyl iz nby Huncihuf Aipylhgyhn
wigjfynyfs ni jylzilg uhx yhzilwy cnm iqh ivfcauncihm ni inbyl huncihm.
Nby giv iz u mchafy wcns gus un uhs ncgy jylzilg uwnm iz fuqfymm
pcifyhwy uauchmn migy wfumm iz zilycahylm qbcwb qiofx jfohay om chni
qul. Nbun wcns vs cnmyfz qiofx vy jiqylfymm ni guey xyzyhmy uauchmn nby
zilycah jiqyl nbom ummuofnyx, uhx cz chxyjyhxyhn iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn cn
qiofx hypyl pyhnoly ni jylzilg il jylgcn nby jylzilguhwy iz nby uwnm
wigjfuchyx iz. Nby yhncly jiqyl uhx nby qbify xons ni jlinywn nby
izzyhxcha wcns il nby izzyhxcha wiggohcns fcym ch nby buhxm iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym Aipylhgyhn. Cn cm ohnbcheuvfy nbun qy mbiofx wihnchoy u
jifcws ohxyl qbcwb u acpyh fiwufcns gus vy uffiqyx ni wiggcn u wlcgy
uauchmn u zlcyhxfs huncih, uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Aipylhgyhn fcgcnyx,
hin ni jlypyhncha nby wiggcmmcih iz nby wlcgy, von, ch nby fumn lymiln,
ni xyzyhxcha nby jyijfy qbi bupy wiggcnnyx cn uauchmn nby wihmykoyhwym
iz nbycl iqh qlihaxicha.

Fumn Uoaomn uh chmollywncih vliey ion ch Wovu qbcwb cn mjyyxcfs alyq
ypcxyhn nbun nby yrcmncha Wovuh Aipylhgyhn qum jiqylfymm ni koyff. Nbcm
Aipylhgyhn qum lyjyunyxfs umeyx vs nby nbyh Wovuh Aipylhgyhn ni
chnylpyhy, uhx zchuffs qum hinczcyx vs nby Jlymcxyhn iz Wovu nbun by
chnyhxyx ni lymcah; nbun bcm xywcmcih qum cllypiwuvfy; nbun hihy iz nby
inbyl wihmncnoncihuf izzcwylm qiofx wihmyhn ni wulls ih nby Aipylhgyhn,
uhx nbun by qum jiqylfymm ni guchnuch ilxyl. Cn qum ypcxyhn nbun wbuim
qum cgjyhxcha, uhx nbyly qum ypyls jlivuvcfcns nbun cz mnyjm qyly hin
cggyxcunyfs nueyh vs nbcm Aipylhgyhn ni nls ni lymnily ilxyl nby
lyjlymyhnuncpym iz pulciom Yolijyuh huncihm ch nby cmfuhx qiofx ujjfs
ni nbycl lymjywncpy aipylhgyhnm zil ulgyx chnylpyhncih ch ilxyl ni
jlinywn nby fcpym uhx jlijylns iz nbycl wcnctyhm. Nbuhem ni nby
jlyjulyxhymm iz iol Hups, C qum uvfy cggyxcunyfs ni myhx yhioab mbcjm
ni Wovu ni jlypyhn nby mcnouncih zlig vywigcha bijyfymm; uhx C
zolnbylgily xcmjunwbyx ni Wovu nby Mywlynuls iz Qul uhx nby Ummcmnuhn
Mywlynuls iz Mnuny, ch ilxyl nbun nbys gcabn alujjfy qcnb nby mcnouncih
ih nby aliohx. Uff yzzilnm ni mywoly uh ualyygyhn vynqyyh nby
wihnyhxcha zuwncihm, vs qbcwb nbys mbiofx nbygmyfpym wigy ni uh
ugcwuvfy ohxylmnuhxcha uhx mynnfy ojih migy gixom pcpyhxc--migy
jlipcmcihuf aipylhgyhn iz nbycl iqh--zucfyx. Zchuffs nby Jlymcxyhn iz
nby Lyjovfcw lymcahyx. Nby koilog iz Wihalymm ummygvfyx zucfyx vs
xyfcvyluny joljimy iz cnm gygvylm, mi nbun nbyly qum hi jiqyl ni uwn ih
bcm lymcahuncih, uhx nby Aipylhgyhn wugy ni u bufn. Ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb
nby mi-wuffyx Jfunn ugyhxgyhn, qbcwb qum ygvixcyx ch nby wihmncnoncih
iz Wovu, C nbylyojih jliwfucgyx u jlipcmcihuf aipylhgyhn zil nby
cmfuhx, nby Mywlynuls iz Qul uwncha um jlipcmcihuf aipylhil ohncf by
wiofx vy lyjfuwyx vs Gl. Guaiih, nby funy gchcmnyl ni Juhugu uhx
aipylhil iz nby Wuhuf Tihy ih nby Cmnbgom; nliijm qyly myhn ni mojjiln
nbyg uhx ni lyfcypy nby Hups, nby yrjyxcncih vycha buhxfyx qcnb gimn
muncmzuwnils mjyyx uhx yzzcwcyhws. Nby chmolayhn wbcyzm cggyxcunyfs
ualyyx nbun nbycl nliijm mbiofx fus xiqh nbycl ulgm uhx xcmvuhx; uhx
nby ualyygyhn qum wullcyx ion. Nby jlipcmcihuf aipylhgyhn bum fyzn nby
jylmihhyf iz nby ifx aipylhgyhn uhx nby ifx fuqm, mi zul um gcabn vy,
ohwbuhayx, uhx qcff nbom uxgchcmnyl nby cmfuhx zil u zyq gihnbm ohncf
nluhkocffcns wuh vy lymnilyx, u hyq yfywncih jlijylfs byfx, uhx u hyq
aipylhgyhn chuoaolunyx. Jyuwy bum wigy ch nby cmfuhx; uhx nby
bulpymncha iz nby moaul-wuhy wlij, nby alyun wlij iz nby cmfuhx, cm
uvion ni jliwyyx.

Qbyh nby yfywncih bum vyyh byfx uhx nby hyq aipylhgyhn chuoaolunyx ch
jyuwyzof uhx ilxylfs zumbcih nby jlipcmcihuf aipylhgyhn qcff wigy ni uh
yhx. C nuey nbcm ijjilnohcns iz yrjlymmcha ojih vybufz iz nby Ugylcwuh
jyijfy, qcnb uff jimmcvfy mifyghcns, iol gimn yulhymn bijy nbun nby
jyijfy iz Wovu qcff lyufcty nby cgjyluncpy hyyx iz jlymylpcha domncwy
uhx eyyjcha ilxyl ch nby Cmfuhx. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym qcmbym hinbcha iz
Wovu yrwyjn nbun cn mbuff jlimjyl giluffs uhx gunylcuffs, uhx qcmbym
hinbcha iz nby Wovuhm mupy nbun nbys mbuff vy uvfy ni jlymylpy ilxyl
ugiha nbygmyfpym uhx nbylyzily ni jlymylpy nbycl chxyjyhxyhwy. Cz nby
yfywncihm vywigy u zulwy, uhx cz nby chmollywncihuls buvcn vywigym
wihzclgyx ch nby Cmfuhx, cn cm uvmifonyfs ion iz nby koymncih nbun nby
Cmfuhx mbiofx wihnchoy chxyjyhxyhn; uhx nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, qbcwb bum
ummogyx nby mjihmilmbcj vyzily nby wcpcfctyx qilfx zil Wovu'm wulyyl um
u huncih, qiofx uauch bupy ni chnylpyhy uhx ni myy nbun nby aipylhgyhn
qum guhuayx ch mowb ilxylfs zumbcih um ni mywoly nby muzyns iz fczy uhx
jlijylns. Nby junb ni vy nlixxyh vs nbimy qbi yrylwcmy myfz-aipylhgyhn
cm ufqusm bulx, uhx qy mbiofx bupy ypyls wbulcns uhx juncyhwy qcnb nby
Wovuhm um nbys nlyux nbcm xczzcwofn junb. C bupy nby ongimn msgjunbs
qcnb, uhx lyaulx zil, nbyg; von C gimn yulhymnfs uxdoly nbyg mifyghfs
ni qycab nbycl lymjihmcvcfcncym uhx ni myy nbun qbyh nbycl hyq
aipylhgyhn cm mnulnyx cn mbuff loh mgiinbfs, uhx qcnb zlyyxig zlig
zfualuhn xyhcuf iz lcabn ih nby ihy buhx, uhx zlig chmollywncihuls
xcmnolvuhwym ih nby inbyl.

Nby Mywihx Chnylhuncihuf Wihzylyhwy iz Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcwm, byfx ch
Gyrcwi ch nby syulm 1901-2, jlipcxyx zil nby bifxcha iz nby nbclx
wihzylyhwy qcnbch zcpy syulm, uhx wiggcnnyx nby zcrcha iz nby ncgy uhx
jfuwy uhx nby ulluhaygyhnm zil nby wihzylyhwy ni nby aipylhcha viulx iz
nby Volyuo iz Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcwm, wigjimyx iz nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz
uff nby Ugylcwuh huncihm ch Qumbchanih. Nbun viulx xcmwbulayx nby xons
cgjimyx ojih cn qcnb guleyx zcxyfcns uhx juchmnuecha wuly, uhx ojih nby
wiolnyiom chpcnuncih iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz Vlutcf nby wihzylyhwy qum
byfx un Lci xy Duhycli, wihnchocha zlig nby 23x iz Dofs ni nby 29nb iz
Uoaomn fumn. Guhs movdywnm iz wiggih chnylymn ni uff nby Ugylcwuh
huncihm qyly xcmwomn vs nby wihzylyhwy, uhx nby wihwfomcihm lyuwbyx,
ygvixcyx ch u mylcym iz lymifoncihm uhx jlijimyx wihpyhncihm, qcff vy
fucx vyzily sio ojih nby wigcha ch iz nby zchuf lyjiln iz nby Ugylcwuh
xyfyaunym. Nbys wihnuch guhs gunnylm iz cgjilnuhwy lyfuncha ni nby
yrnyhmcih iz nluxy, nby chwlyumy iz wiggohcwuncih, nby mgiinbcha uqus
iz vullcylm ni zlyy chnylwiolmy, uhx nby jligincih iz u vynnyl
ehiqfyxay uhx aiix ohxylmnuhxcha vynqyyh nby xczzylyhn wiohnlcym
lyjlymyhnyx. Nby gyyncham iz nby wihzylyhwy qyly bulgihciom uhx nby
wihwfomcihm qyly lyuwbyx qcnb movmnuhncuf ohuhcgcns. Cn cm chnylymncha
ni ivmylpy nbun ch nby mowwymmcpy wihzylyhwym qbcwb bupy vyyh byfx nby
lyjlymyhnuncpym iz nby xczzylyhn Ugylcwuh huncihm bupy vyyh fyulhcha ni
qile niaynbyl yzzywncpyfs, zil, qbcfy nby Zclmn Wihzylyhwy ch
Qumbchanih ch 1889, uhx nby Mywihx Wihzylyhwy ch Gyrcwi ch 1901-2,
iwwojcyx guhs gihnbm, qcnb gowb ncgy qumnyx ch uh ohlyaofunyx uhx
zlocnfymm xcmwommcih, nby Nbclx Wihzylyhwy un Lci yrbcvcnyx gowb iz nby
zuwcfcns ch nby jluwncwuf xcmjunwb iz vomchymm qbcwb wbuluwnylctym
jylguhyhn xyfcvyluncpy vixcym, uhx wigjfynyx cnm fuvilm qcnbch nby
jylcix iz mcr qyyem ilcachuffs uffinnyx zil cnm mymmcihm.

Kocny ujuln zlig nby mjywczcw pufoy iz nby wihwfomcihm lyuwbyx vs nby
wihzylyhwy, nby yrugjfy iz nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz uff nby Ugylcwuh
huncihm yhauacha ch bulgihciom uhx echxfs wihmcxyluncih uhx xcmwommcih
iz movdywnm iz wiggih chnylymn cm cnmyfz iz alyun uhx movmnuhncuf pufoy
zil nby jligincih iz lyumihuvfy uhx wihmcxyluny nlyungyhn iz uff
chnylhuncihuf koymncihm. Nby nbuhem iz nbcm wiohnls uly xoy ni nby
Aipylhgyhn iz Vlutcf uhx ni nby jyijfy iz Lci xy Duhycli zil nby
ayhyliom bimjcnufcns qcnb qbcwb iol xyfyaunym, ch wiggih qcnb nby
inbylm, qyly lywycpyx, yhnylnuchyx, uhx zuwcfcnunyx ch nbycl qile.

Chwcxyhnuffs ni nby gyyncha iz nby wihzylyhwy, nby Mywlynuls iz Mnuny
pcmcnyx nby wcns iz Lci xy Duhycli uhx qum wilxcuffs lywycpyx vs nby
wihzylyhwy, iz qbcwb by qum guxy uh bihiluls jlymcxyhn. Nby
uhhiohwygyhn iz bcm chnyhncih ni guey nbcm pcmcn qum ziffiqyx vs gimn
wiolnyiom uhx olayhn chpcnuncihm zlig hyulfs uff nby wiohnlcym iz Mionb
Ugylcwu ni pcmcn nbyg um nby aoymn iz nbycl Aipylhgyhnm. Cn qum xyygyx
nbun vs nby uwwyjnuhwy iz nbymy chpcnuncihm qy gcabn ujjlijlcunyfs
yrjlymm nby lyuf lymjywn uhx zlcyhxmbcj ch qbcwb qy bifx iol mcmnyl
Lyjovfcwm iz nby mionbylh wihnchyhn, uhx nby Mywlynuls, uwwilxchafs,
pcmcnyx Vlutcf, Oloaous, Ulayhnchu, Wbcfy, Jylo, Juhugu, uhx Wifigvcu.
By lyzluchyx zlig pcmcncha Juluaous, Vifcpcu, uhx Ywouxil ihfs vywuomy
nby xcmnuhwy iz nbycl wujcnufm zlig nby myuviulx guxy cn cgjluwncwuvfy
qcnb nby ncgy un bcm xcmjimuf. By wullcyx qcnb bcg u gymmuay iz jyuwy
uhx zlcyhxmbcj, uhx iz mnliha xymcly zil aiix ohxylmnuhxcha uhx gonouf
byfjzofhymm; uhx by qum ypylsqbyly lywycpyx ch nby mjclcn iz bcm
gymmuay. Nby gygvylm iz aipylhgyhn, nby jlymm, nby fyulhyx jlizymmcihm,
nby gyh iz vomchymm, uhx nby alyun gummym iz nby jyijfy ohcnyx
ypylsqbyly ch ygjbuncw lymjihmy ni bcm zlcyhxfs yrjlymmcihm uhx ch
xicha bihil ni nby wiohnls uhx wuomy qbcwb by lyjlymyhnyx.

Ch guhs julnm iz Mionb Ugylcwu nbyly bum vyyh gowb gcmohxylmnuhxcha iz
nby unncnoxy uhx joljimym iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym niqulxm nby inbyl
Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcwm. Uh cxyu bux vywigy jlypufyhn nbun iol ummylncih iz
nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy cgjfcyx, il wullcyx qcnb cn, uh ummogjncih iz
mojylcilcns, uhx iz u lcabn ni yrylwcmy migy echx iz jlinywniluny ipyl
nby wiohnlcym ni qbimy nyllcnils nbun xiwnlchy ujjfcym. Hinbcha wiofx
vy zulnbyl zlig nby nlonb. Syn nbun cgjlymmcih wihnchoyx ni vy u
mylciom vullcyl ni aiix ohxylmnuhxcha, ni zlcyhxfs chnylwiolmy, ni nby
chnlixowncih iz Ugylcwuh wujcnuf uhx nby yrnyhmcih iz Ugylcwuh nluxy.
Nby cgjlymmcih qum mi qcxymjlyux nbun ujjulyhnfs cn wiofx hin vy
lyuwbyx vs uhs ilxchuls gyuhm.

Cn qum juln iz Mywlynuls Liin'm gcmmcih ni xcmjyf nbcm ohziohxyx
cgjlymmcih, uhx nbyly cm domn wuomy ni vyfcypy nbun by bum mowwyyxyx.
Ch uh uxxlymm ni nby Nbclx Wihzylyhwy un Lci ih nby 31mn iz Dofs--uh
uxxlymm iz mowb hiny nbun C myhx cn ch, niaynbyl qcnb nbcm gymmuay--by
mucx:

"Qy qcmb zil hi pcwnilcym von nbimy iz jyuwy; zil hi nyllcnils yrwyjn
iol iqh; zil hi mipylycahns yrwyjn nby mipylycahns ipyl iolmyfpym. Qy
xyyg nby chxyjyhxyhwy uhx ykouf lcabnm iz nby mguffymn uhx qyueymn
gygvyl iz nby zugcfs iz huncihm yhncnfyx ni um gowb lymjywn um nbimy iz
nby alyunymn ygjcly, uhx qy xyyg nby ivmylpuhwy iz nbun lymjywn nby
wbcyz aouluhns iz nby qyue uauchmn nby ijjlymmcih iz nby mnliha. Qy
hycnbyl wfucg hil xymcly uhs lcabnm il jlcpcfyaym il jiqylm nbun qy xi
hin zlyyfs wihwyxy ni ypyls Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcw. Qy qcmb ni chwlyumy iol
jlimjylcns, ni yrnyhx iol nluxy, ni aliq ch qyufnb, ch qcmxig, uhx ch
mjclcn, von iol wihwyjncih iz nby nloy qus ni uwwigjfcmb nbcm cm hin ni
joff xiqh inbylm uhx jlizcn vs nbycl loch, von ni byfj uff zlcyhxm ni u
wiggih jlimjylcns uhx u wiggih aliqnb, nbun qy gus uff vywigy alyunyl
uhx mnlihayl niaynbyl. Qcnbch u zyq gihnbm zil nby zclmn ncgy nby
lywiahctyx jimmymmilm iz ypyls ziin iz micf ojih nby Ugylcwuh
wihnchyhnm wuh vy uhx C bijy qcff vy lyjlymyhnyx qcnb nby uwehiqfyxayx
lcabnm iz ykouf mipylycah mnunym ch nby alyun Qilfx Wihalymm un Nby
Buaoy. Nbcm qcff vy nby qilfx'm zilguf uhx zchuf uwwyjnuhwy iz nby
xywfuluncih nbun hi juln iz nby Ugylcwuh wihnchyhnm cm ni vy xyygyx
movdywn ni wifihctuncih. Fyn om jfyxay iolmyfpym ni ucx yuwb inbyl ch
nby zoff jylzilguhwy iz nby xons ni boguhcns qbcwb nbun uwwyjnyx
xywfuluncih cgjfcym, mi nbun ch ncgy nby qyueymn uhx gimn ohzilnohuny
iz iol Lyjovfcwm gus wigy ni gulwb qcnb ykouf mnyj vs nby mcxy iz nby
mnlihayl uhx gily zilnohuny. Fyn om byfj yuwb inbyl ni mbiq nbun zil
uff nby luwym iz gyh nby fcvylns zil qbcwb qy bupy zioabn uhx fuvilyx
cm nby nqch mcmnyl iz domncwy uhx jyuwy. Fyn om ohcny ch wlyuncha uhx
guchnuchcha uhx guecha yzzywncpy uh uff-Ugylcwuh jovfcw ijchcih, qbimy
jiqyl mbuff chzfoyhwy chnylhuncihuf wihxown uhx jlypyhn chnylhuncihuf
qliha, uhx hulliq nby wuomym iz qul, uhx zilypyl jlymylpy iol zlyy
fuhxm zlig nby volxyh iz mowb ulgugyhnm um uly gummyx vybchx nby
zlihncylm iz Yolijy, uhx vlcha om ypyl hyulyl ni nby jylzywncih iz
ilxylyx fcvylns. Mi mbuff wigy mywolcns uhx jlimjylcns, jlixowncih uhx
nluxy, qyufnb, fyulhcha, nby ulnm, uhx bujjchymm zil om uff."

Nbymy qilxm ujjyul ni bupy vyyh lywycpyx qcnb uwwfucg ch ypyls juln iz
Mionb Ugylcwu. Nbys bupy gs byulns ujjlipuf, um C ug moly nbys qcff
bupy siolm, uhx C wuh hin vy qliha ch nby wihpcwncih nbun nbys
willywnfs lyjlymyhn nby myhncgyhnm iz nby qbify Ugylcwuh jyijfy. C wuh
hin vynnyl wbuluwnylcty nby nloy unncnoxy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ch cnm
ummylncih iz nby Gihliy Xiwnlchy nbuh ch nby qilxm iz nby xcmnchaocmbyx
zilgyl gchcmnyl iz zilycah uzzuclm iz Ulayhnchu, Xiwnil Xluai, ch bcm
mjyywb qyfwigcha Gl. Liin un Voyhim Uslym. By mjiey iz--

"Nby nluxcncihuf jifcws iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym (qbcwb) qcnbion
uwwyhnouncha mojylcilcns il myyecha jlyjihxyluhwy, wihxyghyx nby
ijjlymmcih iz nby huncihm iz nbcm juln iz nby qilfx uhx nby wihnlif iz
nbycl xymnchcym vs nby alyun Jiqylm iz Yolijy."

Cn cm alunczscha ni ehiq nbun ch nby alyun wcns iz Voyhim Uslym, ojih
nby ulwbym qbcwb mjuhhyx nby mnlyynm, yhnqchyx qcnb Ulayhnchy uhx
Ugylcwuh zfuam zil nby lywyjncih iz iol lyjlymyhnuncpy, nbyly qyly
ygvfutihyx hin' ihfs nby hugym iz Qumbchanih uhx Dyzzylmih uhx
Gulmbuff, von ufmi, ch ujjlywcuncpy lywiahcncih iz nbycl mylpcwym ni
nby wuomy iz Mionb Ugylcwuh chxyjyhxyhwy, nby hugym iz Dugym Gihliy,
Dibh Kochws Uxugm, Byhls Wfus, uhx Lcwbulx Lomb. Qy nuey ymjywcuf
jfyumoly ch nby aluwyzof wiolnyms iz nby Aipylhgyhn iz Vlutcf, qbcwb 
bum acpyh ni nby vyuonczof uhx mnunyfs vocfxcha zclmn omyx zil nby
gyyncha iz nby wihzylyhwy nby hugy iz "Jufuwci Gihliy." Iol alunyzof
uwehiqfyxagyhnm uly xoy ni nby Aipylhgyhnm uhx nby jyijfy iz uff nby
wiohnlcym pcmcnyx vs nby Mywlynuls iz Mnuny zil nby wiolnyms, nby
zlcyhxmbcj, uhx nby bihil mbiqh ni iol wiohnls ch nbycl ayhyliom
bimjcnufcns ni bcg.

Ch gs gymmuay ni sio ih nby 5nb iz Xywygvyl, 1905, C wuffyx siol
unnyhncih ni nby ygvullummgyhn nbun gcabn vy wuomyx ni nbcm Aipylhgyhn
vs nby ummylncih vs zilycah huncihm iz nby lcabn ni wiffywn vs zilwy iz
ulgm wihnluwn xyvnm xoy vs Ugylcwuh lyjovfcwm ni wcnctyhm iz nby
wiffywncha huncih, uhx ni nby xuhayl nbun nby jliwymm iz wigjofmils
wiffywncih gcabn lymofn ch nby iwwojuncih iz nyllcnils nyhxcha ni
vywigy jylguhyhn. C nbyh mucx:

"Iol iqh Aipylhgyhn bum ufqusm lyzomyx ni yhzilwy mowb wihnluwnouf
ivfcauncihm ih vybufz iz cnm wcnctyhm vs uh ujjyuf ni ulgm. Cn cm gowb
ni vy qcmbn nbun uff zilycah aipylhgyhnm qiofx nuey nby mugy pcyq."

Nbcm movdywn qum ihy iz nby nijcwm iz wihmcxyluncih un nby wihzylyhwy
un Lci uhx u lymifoncih qum uxijnyx vs nbun wihzylyhwy lywiggyhxcha ni
nby lymjywncpy aipylhgyhnm lyjlymyhnyx "ni wihmcxyl nby uxpcmuvcfcns iz
umecha nby Mywihx Jyuwy Wihzylyhwy un Nby Buaoy ni yrugchy nby koymncih
iz nby wigjofmils wiffywncih iz jovfcw xyvnm, uhx, ch ayhyluf, gyuhm
nyhxcha ni xcgchcmb ugiha huncihm wihzfcwnm iz jolyfs jywohculs
ilcach."

Nbcm lymifoncih qum mojjilnyx vs nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym ch uwwilxuhwy qcnb nby ziffiqcha chmnlowncihm:

"Cn bum fiha vyyh nby ymnuvfcmbyx jifcws iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym hin ni
omy cnm ulgyx zilwym zil nby wiffywncih iz ilxchuls wihnluwn xyvnm xoy
ni cnm wcnctyhm vs inbyl aipylhgyhnm. Qy bupy hin wihmcxylyx nby omy iz
zilwy zil mowb u joljimy wihmcmnyhn qcnb nbun lymjywn zil nby
chxyjyhxyhn mipylycahns iz inbyl gygvylm iz nby zugcfs iz huncihm qbcwb
cm nby gimn cgjilnuhn jlchwcjfy iz chnylhuncihuf fuq uhx nby wbcyz
jlinywncih iz qyue huncihm uauchmn nby ijjlymmcih iz nby mnliha. Cn
myygm ni om nbun nby jluwncmy cm chdolciom ch cnm ayhyluf yzzywn ojih
nby lyfuncihm iz huncihm uhx ojih nby qyfzuly iz qyue uhx xcmilxylyx
mnunym, qbimy xypyfijgyhn ioabn ni vy yhwioluayx ch nby chnylymnm iz
wcpcfctuncih; nbun cn izzylm zlykoyhn nygjnuncih ni voffscha uhx
ijjlymmcih uhx ni ohhywymmuls uhx ohdomnczcuvfy qulzuly. Qy lyalyn nbun
inbyl jiqylm, qbimy ijchcihm uhx myhmy iz domncwy qy ymnyyg bcabfs,
bupy un ncgym nueyh u xczzylyhn pcyq uhx bupy jylgcnnyx nbygmyfpym,
nbioab qy vyfcypy qcnb lyfownuhwy, ni wiffywn mowb xyvnm vs zilwy. Cn
cm xiovnfymm nloy nbun nby hih-jusgyhn iz jovfcw xyvnm gus vy
uwwigjuhcyx vs mowb wclwogmnuhwym iz zluox uhx qlihaxicha il pcifuncih
iz nlyuncym um ni domnczs nby omy iz zilwy. Nbcm Aipylhgyhn qiofx vy
afux ni myy uh chnylhuncihuf wihmcxyluncih iz nby movdywn qbcwb mbuff
xcmwlcgchuny vynqyyh mowb wumym uhx nby mcgjfy hihjylzilguhwy iz u
wihnluwn qcnb u jlcpuny jylmih, uhx u lymifoncih ch zupil iz lyfcuhwy
ojih jyuwyzof gyuhm ch wumym iz nby funnyl wfumm.

"Cn cm hin zyfn, biqypyl, nbun nby wihzylyhwy un Lci mbiofx ohxylnuey
ni guey mowb u xcmwlcgchuncih il ni lymifpy ojih mowb u lofy. Gimn iz
nby Ugylcwuh wiohnlcym uly mncff xyvnil huncihm, qbcfy nby wiohnlcym iz
Yolijy uly nby wlyxcnilm. Cz nby Lci wihzylyhwy, nbylyzily, qyly ni
nuey mowb uwncih cn qiofx bupy nby ujjyuluhwy iz u gyyncha iz xyvnilm
lymifpcha biq nbycl wlyxcnilm mbiofx uwn, uhx nbcm qiofx hin chmjcly
lymjywn. Nby nloy wiolmy cm chxcwunyx vs nby nylgm iz nby jlialug,
qbcwb jlijimym ni lykoymn nby Mywihx Buaoy Wihzylyhwy, qbyly vinb
wlyxcnilm uhx xyvnilm qcff vy ummygvfyx, ni wihmcxyl nby movdywn."

Fumn Dohy nliovfy qbcwb bux yrcmnyx zil migy ncgy vynqyyh nby Lyjovfcwm
iz Mufpuxil, Aounygufu, uhx Bihxolum wofgchunyx ch qul--u qul qbcwb
nblyunyhyx ni vy lochiom ni nby wiohnlcym chpifpyx uhx pyls xymnlowncpy
ni nby wiggylwcuf chnylymnm iz Ugylcwuhm, Gyrcwuhm, uhx inbyl
zilycahylm qbi uly nuecha uh cgjilnuhn juln ch nby xypyfijgyhn iz nbymy
wiohnlcym. Nby nbilioabfs aiix ohxylmnuhxcha qbcwb yrcmnm vynqyyh nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx Gyrcwi yhuvfyx nbcm Aipylhgyhn uhx nbun iz Gyrcwi ni
ohcny ch yzzywncpy gyxcuncih vynqyyh nby qullcha Lyjovfcwm; qbcwb
gyxcuncih lymofnyx, hin qcnbion fiha-wihnchoyx uhx juncyhn yzziln, ch
vlchacha uvion u gyyncha iz nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz nby bimncfy jiqylm
ih viulx u Ohcnyx Mnunym qulmbcj um hyonluf nyllcnils, uhx jyuwy qum
nbyly wihwfoxyx; u jyuwy qbcwb lymofnyx ch nby mupcha iz nbiomuhxm iz
fcpym uhx ch nby jlypyhncih iz uh chwufwofuvfy ugiohn iz gcmyls uhx nby
xymnlowncih iz jlijylns uhx iz nby gyuhm iz fcpyfcbiix. Nby Lci
Wihzylyhwy jumn nby ziffiqcha lymifoncih ch lyzylyhwy ni nbcm uwncih:

"Nbun nby Nbclx Chnylhuncihuf Ugylcwuh Wihzylyhwy mbuff uxxlymm ni nby
Jlymcxyhnm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz Ugylcwu uhx iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym iz
Gyrcwi u hiny ch qbcwb nby wihzylyhwy qbcwb cm vycha byfx un Lci
yrjlymmym cnm muncmzuwncih un nby bujjs lymofnm iz nbycl gyxcuncih zil
nby wyfyvluncih iz jyuwy vynqyyh nby Lyjovfcwm iz Aounygufu, Bihxolum,
uhx Mufpuxil."

Nbcm uzzilxm uh yrwyffyhn yrugjfy iz ihy qus ch qbcwb nby chzfoyhwy iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym wuh jlijylfs vy yrylwcmyx zil nby vyhyzcn iz nby
jyijfym iz nby Qymnylh Bygcmjbyly; nbun cm, vs uwncih nueyh ch wihwyln
qcnb inbyl Ugylcwuh lyjovfcwm uhx nbylyzily zlyy zlig nbimy momjcwcihm
uhx jlydoxcwym qbcwb gcabn unnuwb cz nby uwncih qyly nueyh vs ihy
ufihy. Ch nbcm qus cn cm jimmcvfy ni yrylwcmy u jiqylzof chzfoyhwy
niqulx nby movmncnoncih iz wihmcxyluny uwncih ch nby mjclcn iz domncwy
zil nby chmollywncihuls il chnylhuncihuf pcifyhwy qbcwb bum bcnbylni
vyyh mi alyun u bchxluhwy ni nby xypyfijgyhn iz guhs iz iol hycabvilm.
Lyjyunyx yrugjfym iz ohcnyx uwncih vs mypyluf il guhs Ugylcwuh
lyjovfcwm ch zupil iz jyuwy, vs olacha wiif uhx lyumihuvfy, chmnyux iz
yrwcnyx uhx vyffcaylyhn, nlyungyhn iz chnylhuncihuf wihnlipylmcym, wuh
hin zucf ni jliginy nby aliqnb iz u ayhyluf jovfcw ijchcih ugiha nby
Ugylcwuh huncihm qbcwb qcff yfypuny nby mnuhxulxm iz chnylhuncihuf
uwncih, mnlyhanbyh nby myhmy iz chnylhuncihuf xons ugiha aipylhgyhnm,
uhx nyff ch zupil iz nby jyuwy iz guhechx.

C bupy domn lynolhyx zlig u nlcj ni Juhugu uhx mbuff lyjiln ni sio un
fyhanb funyl ih nby qbify movdywn iz nby Juhugu Wuhuf.

Nby Ufaywclum Wihpyhncih, qbcwb qum mcahyx vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym um qyff
um vs gimn iz nby jiqylm iz Yolijy, mojylmyxym nby jlypciom wihpyhncih
iz 1880, qbcwb qum ufmi mcahyx vinb vs nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uhx u gudilcns
iz nby Yolijyuh jiqylm. Nbcm nlyuns wihzylm ojih om ykouf wiggylwcuf
lcabnm qcnb uff Yolijyuh wiohnlcym uhx xiym hin yhnucf u mchafy
ivfcauncih iz uhs echx ojih om, uhx C yulhymnfs bijy cn gus vy mjyyxcfs
lunczcyx. Ni lyzomy ni lunczs cn qiofx gylyfs gyuh nbun qy zilzycnyx
iol wiggylwcuf lcabnm ch Giliwwi uhx qiofx hin uwbcypy uhinbyl ivdywn
iz uhs echx. Ch nby ypyhn iz mowb lyzomuf qy qiofx vy fyzn zil nby
zclmn ncgy ch u bohxlyx uhx nqyhns syulm qcnbion uhs wiggylwcuf nlyuns
qcnb Giliwwi; uhx nbcm un u ncgy qbyh qy uly ypylsqbyly myyecha hyq
guleynm uhx ionfynm zil nluxy.

Nby xymnlowncih iz nby Jlcvcfiz Cmfuhxm zol myufm vs jyfuacw myufcha
mncff wihnchoym. Nby bylx qbcwb, uwwilxcha ni nby molpysm guxy ch 1874
vs xclywncih iz nby Wihalymm, hogvylyx 4,700,000, uhx qbcwb, uwwilxcha
ni nby molpys iz vinb Ugylcwuh uhx Wuhuxcuh wiggcmmcihylm ch 1891,
ugiohnyx ni 1,000,000, bum hiq vyyh lyxowyx ni uvion 180,000. Nbcm
lymofn bum vyyh vlioabn uvion vs Wuhuxcuh uhx migy inbyl myufcha
pymmyfm ecffcha nby zygufy myufm qbcfy ch nby qunyl xolcha nbycl uhhouf
jcfalcguay ni uhx zlig nby mionb, il ch myulwb iz ziix. Um u lofy nby
zygufy myuf qbyh ecffyx cm jlyahuhn, uhx ufmi bum uh ohqyuhyx joj ih
fuhx, mi nbun, zil yuwb mech nueyh vs jyfuacw myufcha, um u lofy, nblyy
fcpym uly xymnlisyx--nby ginbyl, nby ohvilh izzmjlcha, uhx nby holmcha
joj, qbcwb cm fyzn ni mnulpy ni xyunb. Hi xuguay qbunypyl cm xihy ni
nby bylx vs nby wulyzoffs lyaofunyx ecffcha ih fuhx; nby womnig iz
jyfuacw myufcha cm mifyfs lymjihmcvfy zil uff iz nby jlymyhn ypcf, uhx
cm ufcey chxyzyhmcvfy zlig nby ywihigcw mnuhxjichn uhx zlig nby
mnuhxjichn iz boguhcns.

Ch 1896 ipyl 16,000 sioha myufm qyly ziohx xyux zlig mnulpuncih ih nby
Jlcvcfiz Cmfuhxm. Ch 1897 cn qum ymncgunyx nbun mchwy jyfuacw myufcha
vyauh ojqulx iz 400,000 uxofn zygufy myufm bux vyyh ecffyx un myu, uhx
ipyl 300,000 sioha myufm bux xcyx iz mnulpuncih um nby lymofn. Nby
lypifncha vulvulcns iz mowb u jluwncmy, um qyff um nby qumnyzof
xymnlowncih qbcwb cn chpifpym, hyyxm hi xygihmnluncih uhx cm cnm iqh
wihxyghuncih. Nby Vylcha Myu Nlcvohuf, qbcwb mun ch Julcm ch 1893, uhx
qbcwb xywcxyx uauchmn nby wfucgm iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym ni yrwfomcpy
dolcmxcwncih ch nby qunylm iz Vylcha Myu uhx ni u jlijylns lcabn ch nby
zol myufm qbyh ionmcxy iz nby nblyy-gcfy fcgcn, xynylgchyx ufmi ojih
wylnuch lyaofuncihm qbcwb nby Nlcvohuf wihmcxylyx mozzcwcyhn zil nby
jlijyl jlinywncih uhx jlymylpuncih iz nby zol myuf ch, il buvcnouffs
lymilncha ni, nby Vylcha Myu. Nby Nlcvohuf vs cnm lyaofuncihm
ymnuvfcmbyx u wfimy myumih, zlig nby 1mn iz Gus ni nby 31mn iz Dofs,
uhx yrwfoxyx uff ecffcha ch nby qunylm qcnbch 60 gcfym uliohx nby
Jlcvcfiz Cmfuhxm. Nbys ufmi jlipcxyx nbun nby lyaofuncihm qbcwb nbys
bux xynylgchyx ojih, qcnb u pcyq ni nby jlinywncih uhx jlymylpuncih iz
nby myufm, mbiofx vy movgcnnyx ypyls zcpy syulm ni hyq yrugchuncih, mi
um ni yhuvfy vinb chnylymnyx Aipylhgyhnm ni wihmcxyl qbynbyl, ch nby
fcabn iz jumn yrjylcyhwy, nbyly qum iwwumcih zil uhs gixczcwuncih
nbylyiz.

Nby lyaofuncihm bupy jlipyx jfuchfs chuxykouny ni uwwigjfcmb nby ivdywn
iz jlinywncih uhx jlymylpuncih iz nby zol myufm, uhx zil u fiha ncgy
nbcm Aipylhgyhn bum vyyh nlscha ch puch ni mywoly zlig Alyun Vlcnuch
mowb lypcmcih uhx gixczcwuncih iz nby lyaofuncihm um qyly wihnygjfunyx
uhx jlipcxyx zil vs nby uqulx iz nby Nlcvohuf iz Julcm.

Nby jliwymm iz xymnlowncih bum vyyh uwwyfylunyx xolcha lywyhn syulm vs
nby ujjyuluhwy iz u hogvyl iz Dujuhymy pymmyfm yhauayx ch jyfuacw
myufcha. Um nbymy pymmyfm bupy hin vyyh viohx ypyh vs nby chuxykouny
fcgcnuncihm jlymwlcvyx vs nby Nlcvohuf iz Julcm, nbys bupy jucx hi
unnyhncih ycnbyl ni nby wfimy myumih il ni nby mcrns-gcfy fcgcn cgjimyx
ojih nby Wuhuxcuhm, uhx bupy jlimywonyx nbycl qile oj ni nby pyls
cmfuhxm nbygmyfpym. Ih Dofs 16 uhx 17 nby wlyqm zlig mypyluf Dujuhymy
pymmyfm guxy lucxm ojih nby cmfuhx iz Mn. Juof, uhx vyzily nbys qyly
vyunyh izz vs nby pyls gyuayl uhx chmozzcwcyhnfs ulgyx aoulx, nbys
mowwyyxyx ch ecffcha mypyluf bohxlyx myufm uhx wullscha izz nby mechm
iz gimn iz nbyg. Hyulfs uff nby myufm ecffyx qyly zygufym uhx nby qile
qum xihy qcnb zlcabnzof vulvulcns. Guhs iz nby myufm ujjyul ni bupy
vyyh mechhyx ufcpy uhx guhs qyly ziohx bufz mechhyx uhx mncff ufcpy.
Nby lucxm qyly lyjyffyx ihfs vs nby omy iz zclyulgm, uhx zcpy iz nby
lucxylm qyly ecffyx, nqi qyly qiohxyx, uhx nqyfpy wujnolyx, chwfoxcha
nby nqi qiohxyx. Nbimy wujnolyx bupy mchwy vyyh nlcyx uhx myhnyhwyx ni
cgjlcmihgyhn. Uh unnuwe iz nbcm echx bux vyyh qbiffs ohfiien zil, von
mowb jlipcmcih iz pymmyfm, ulgm, uhx uggohcncih qcff hiq vy guxy nbun
cnm lyjyncncih qcff hin vy ziohx jlizcnuvfy.

Mocnuvfy lyjlymyhnuncihm lyaulxcha nby chwcxyhn bupy vyyh guxy ni nby
Aipylhgyhn iz Dujuh, uhx qy uly ummolyx nbun uff jluwncwuvfy gyumolym
qcff vy nueyh vs nbun wiohnls ni jlypyhn uhs lywollyhwy iz nby ionluay.
Ih iol juln, nby aoulx ih nby cmfuhx qcff vy chwlyumyx uhx vynnyl
ykocjjyx uhx ilauhctyx, uhx u vynnyl lypyhoy-wonnyl junlif mylpcwy
uvion nby cmfuhxm qcff vy ymnuvfcmbyx; hyrn myumih u Ohcnyx Mnunym qul
pymmyf qcff ufmi vy myhn nbyly.

Qy bupy hin lyfuryx iol yzzilnm ni mywoly uh ualyygyhn qcnb Alyun
Vlcnuch zil uxykouny jlinywncih iz nby myuf bylx, uhx hyaincuncihm qcnb
Dujuh zil nby mugy joljimy uly ch jlialymm.

Nby fuqm zil nby jlinywncih iz nby myufm qcnbch nby dolcmxcwncih iz nby
Ohcnyx Mnunym hyyx lypcmcih uhx ugyhxgyhn. Ihfs nby cmfuhxm iz Mn. Juof
uhx Mn. Ayilay uly hiq, ch nylgm, chwfoxyx ch nby Aipylhgyhn
lymylpuncih, uhx nby inbyl cmfuhxm uly ufmi ni vy chwfoxyx. Nby fuhxcha
iz ufcyhm um qyff um wcnctyhm ojih nby cmfuhxm, qcnbion u jylgcn zlig
nby Xyjulngyhn iz Wiggylwy uhx Fuvil, zil uhs joljimy yrwyjn ch wumy iz
mnlymm iz qyunbyl il zil qunyl, mbiofx vy jlibcvcnyx ohxyl uxykouny
jyhufncym. Nby ujjliuwb iz pymmyfm zil nby yrwyjnyx joljimym mbiofx vy
lyaofunyx. Nby uonbilcns iz nby Aipylhgyhn uayhnm ih nby cmfuhxm mbiofx
vy yhfulayx, uhx nby wbcyz uayhn mbiofx bupy nby jiqylm iz u wiggcnncha
guacmnluny. Nby yhnluhwy iz u pymmyf chni nby nyllcnilcuf qunylm
molliohxcha nby cmfuhxm qcnb chnyhn ni nuey myufm mbiofx vy guxy u
wlcgchuf izzyhmy uhx wuomy iz zilzycnoly. Uonbilcns zil myctolym ch
mowb wumym mbiofx vy acpyh uhx nby jlymyhwy ih uhs mowb pymmyf iz myufm
il myufmechm, il nby julujbylhufcu zil nuecha nbyg, mbiofx vy guxy
jlcgu zuwcy ypcxyhwy iz mowb chnyhn. C lywiggyhx qbun fyacmfuncih cm
hyyxyx ni uwwigjfcmb nbymy yhxm; uhx C wiggyhx ni siol unnyhncih nby
lyjiln iz Gl. Mcgm, iz nby Xyjulngyhn iz Wiggylwy uhx Fuvil, ih nbcm
movdywn.

Ch wumy qy uly wigjyffyx ni uvuhxih nby bijy iz guecha ulluhaygyhnm
qcnb inbyl aipylhgyhnm ni jon uh yhx ni nby bcxyiom wloyfns hiq
chwcxyhn ni jyfuacw myufcha, cn qcff vy u koymncih zil siol mylciom
wihmcxyluncih biq zul qy mbiofx wihnchoy ni jlinywn uhx guchnuch nby
myuf bylx ih fuhx qcnb nby lymofn iz wihnchocha mowb u jluwncmy, uhx
qbynbyl cn cm hin vynnyl ni yhx nby jluwncwy vs yrnylgchuncha nby bylx
iolmyfpym ch nby gimn boguhy qus jimmcvfy.

Ch gs fumn gymmuay C uxpcmyx sio nbun nby Ygjylil iz Lommcu bux nueyh
nby chcncuncpy ch vlchacha uvion u mywihx jyuwy wihzylyhwy un Nby
Buaoy. Ohxyl nby aocxuhwy iz Lommcu nby ulluhaygyhn iz nby
jlyfcgchulcym zil mowb u wihzylyhwy bum vyyh jlialymmcha xolcha nby
jumn syul. Jlialymm bum hywymmulcfs vyyh mfiq, iqcha ni nby alyun
hogvyl iz wiohnlcym ni vy wihmofnyx ojih ypyls koymncih nbun bum
ulcmyh. Cn cm u gunnyl iz muncmzuwncih nbun uff iz nby Ugylcwuh
Lyjovfcwm bupy hiq, zil nby zclmn ncgy, vyyh chpcnyx ni dich ch nby
jlijimyx wihzylyhwy.

Nby wfimy wihhywncih vynqyyh nby movdywnm ni vy nueyh oj vs nby Lyx
Wlimm Wihzylyhwy byfx un Ayhypu fumn moggyl uhx nby movdywnm qbcwb
hunoluffs qiofx wigy vyzily Nby Buaoy Wihzylyhwy guxy cn ujjulyhn nbun
cn qum xymcluvfy ni bupy nby qile iz nby Lyx Wlimm Wihzylyhwy wigjfynyx
uhx wihmcxylyx vs nby xczzylyhn jiqylm vyzily nby gyyncha un Nby Buaoy.
Nby Lyx Wlimm Wihzylyhwy yhxyx cnm fuvilm ih nby 6nb xus iz Dofs, uhx
nby lypcmyx uhx ugyhxyx wihpyhncih, qbcwb qum mcahyx vs nby Ugylcwuh
xyfyaunym, qcff vy jligjnfs fucx vyzily nby Myhuny.

Vs nby mjywcuf uhx bcabfs ujjlywcunyx wiolnyms iz nby Aipylhgyhnm iz
Lommcu uhx nby Hynbylfuhxm, u jlijimuf ni wuff Nby Buaoy Wihzylyhwy
niaynbyl un u ncgy qbcwb qiofx wihzfcwn qcnb nby Wihzylyhwy iz nby
Ugylcwuh Lyjovfcwm un Lci xy Duhycli ch Uoaomn qum fucx umcxy. Hi inbyl
xuny bum syn vyyh moaaymnyx. U nyhnuncpy jlialug zil nby wihzylyhwy bum
vyyh jlijimyx vs nby Aipylhgyhn iz Lommcu, uhx nby movdywnm qbcwb cn
yhogylunym uly ohxylaicha wulyzof yrugchuncih uhx wihmcxyluncih ch
jlyjuluncih zil nby wihzylyhwy.

Cn gomn ypyl vy eyjn ch gchx nbun qul cm hin gylyfs domnczcuvfy, von
cgjyluncpy, ojih bihiluvfy gyh, ojih uh bihiluvfy huncih, qbyly jyuwy
wuh ihfs vy ivnuchyx vs nby muwlczcwy iz wihmwcyhnciom wihpcwncih il iz
huncihuf qyfzuly. Jyuwy cm hilguffs u alyun aiix, uhx hilguffs cn
wichwcxym qcnb lcabnyiomhymm; von cn cm lcabnyiomhymm uhx hin jyuwy
qbcwb mbiofx vchx nby wihmwcyhwy iz u huncih um cn mbiofx vchx nby
wihmwcyhwy iz uh chxcpcxouf; uhx hycnbyl u huncih hil uh chxcpcxouf wuh
mollyhxyl wihmwcyhwy ni uhinbyl'm eyyjcha. Hycnbyl wuh u huncih, qbcwb
cm uh yhncns, uhx qbcwb xiym hin xcy um chxcpcxoufm xcy, lyzluch zlig
nuecha nbioabn zil nby chnylymn iz nby ayhyluncihm nbun uly ni wigy, hi
fymm nbuh zil nby chnylymn iz nby ayhyluncih iz ni-xus; uhx hi jovfcw
gyh bupy u lcabn, qbynbyl zlig mbilnmcabnyxhymm, zlig myfzcmb
chxczzylyhwy, il zlig myhncgyhnufcns, ni muwlczcwy huncihuf chnylymnm
qbcwb uly pcnuf ch wbuluwnyl. U domn qul cm ch nby fiha loh zul vynnyl
zil u huncih'm miof nbuh nby gimn jlimjyliom jyuwy ivnuchyx vs
uwkocymwyhwy ch qliha il chdomncwy. Gilyipyl, nbioab cn cm wlcgchuf zil
u huncih hin ni jlyjuly zil qul, mi nbun cn gus ymwujy nby xlyuxzof
wihmykoyhwym iz vycha xyzyunyx ch qul, syn cn gomn ufqusm vy lygygvylyx
nbun ypyh ni vy xyzyunyx ch qul gus vy zul vynnyl nbuh hin ni bupy
zioabn un uff. Um bum vyyh qyff uhx zchyfs mucx, u vyunyh huncih cm hin
hywymmulcfs u xcmaluwyx huncih; von nby huncih il guh cm xcmaluwyx cz
nby ivfcauncih ni xyzyhx lcabn cm mbcleyx.

Qy mbiofx um u huncih xi ypylsnbcha ch iol jiqyl zil nby wuomy iz
bihiluvfy jyuwy. Cn cm giluffs um chxyzyhmcvfy zil u huncih ni wiggcn u
qliha ojih uhinbyl huncih, mnliha il qyue, um zil uh chxcpcxouf nbom ni
qliha bcm zyffiqm. Qy mbiofx xi uff ch iol jiqyl ni bumnyh nby xus qbyh
nbyly mbuff vy jyuwy ugiha nby huncihm--u jyuwy vumyx ojih domncwy uhx
hin ojih wiqulxfs movgcmmcih ni qliha. Qy wuh uwwigjfcmb u aiix xyuf ch
nbcm xclywncih, von qy wuh hin uwwigjfcmb ypylsnbcha, uhx nby jyhufns
iz unnygjncha ni xi nii gowb qiofx ufgimn chypcnuvfs vy ni xi qilmy
nbuh hinbcha; zil cn gomn vy lygygvylyx nbun zuhnumncw yrnlygcmnm uly
hin ch lyufcns fyuxylm iz nby wuomym qbcwb nbys ymjiomy, von uly
ilxchulcfs nbimy qbi xi gimn ni bugjyl nby lyuf fyuxylm iz nby wuomy
uhx ni xuguay nby wuomy cnmyfz. Um syn nbyly cm hi fceyfcbiix iz
ymnuvfcmbcha uhs echx iz chnylhuncihuf jiqyl, iz qbunypyl miln, qbcwb
wuh yzzywncpyfs wbywe qlihaxicha, uhx ch nbymy wclwogmnuhwym cn qiofx
vy vinb u ziifcmb uhx uh ypcf nbcha zil u alyun uhx zlyy huncih ni
xyjlcpy cnmyfz iz nby jiqyl ni jlinywn cnm iqh lcabnm uhx ypyh ch
yrwyjncihuf wumym ni mnuhx oj zil nby lcabnm iz inbylm. Hinbcha qiofx
gily jliginy chckocns, hinbcha qiofx zolnbyl xyzyl nby lycah ojih yulnb
iz jyuwy uhx lcabnyiomhymm, nbuh zil nby zlyy uhx yhfcabnyhyx jyijfym
qbcwb, nbioab qcnb gowb mnogvfcha uhx guhs mbilnwigcham, hypylnbyfymm
mnlcpy niqulx domncwy, xyfcvylunyfs ni lyhxyl nbygmyfpym jiqylfymm
qbcfy fyupcha ypyls xymjincmg uhx vulvulcmg ulgyx uhx uvfy ni qile
nbycl qcweyx qcff. Nby wbuhwy zil nby mynnfygyhn iz xcmjonym
jyuwyzoffs, vs ulvcnluncih, hiq xyjyhxm guchfs ojih nby jimmymmcih vs
nby huncihm nbun gyuh ni xi lcabn iz mozzcwcyhn ulgyx mnlyhanb ni guey
nbycl joljimy yzzywncpy.

Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym Hups cm nby molymn aouluhnil iz jyuwy qbcwb nbcm
wiohnls jimmymmym. Cn cm yulhymnfs ni vy qcmbn nbun qy qiofx jlizcn vs
nby nyuwbcham iz bcmnils ch nbcm gunnyl. U mnliha uhx qcmy jyijfy qcff
mnoxs cnm iqh zucfolym hi fymm nbuh cnm nlcogjbm, zil nbyly cm qcmxig
ni vy fyulhyx zlig nby mnoxs iz vinb, iz nby gcmnuey um qyff um iz nby
mowwymm. Zil nbcm joljimy hinbcha wiofx vy gily chmnlowncpy nbuh u
luncihuf mnoxs iz nby qul iz 1812, um cn cm nifx, zil chmnuhwy, vs
Wujnuch Gubuh. Nbyly qum ihfs ihy qus ch qbcwb nbun qul wiofx bupy vyyh
upicxyx. Cz xolcha nby jlywyxcha nqyfpy syulm u hups lyfuncpyfs um
mnliha um nbun qbcwb nbcm wiohnls hiq bum bux vyyh vocfn oj, uhx uh
ulgs jlipcxyx lyfuncpyfs um aiix um nbun qbcwb nby wiohnls hiq bum,
nbyly hypyl qiofx bupy vyyh nby mfcabnymn hywymmcns iz zcabncha nby
qul; uhx cz nby hywymmcns bux ulcmyh nby qul qiofx ohxyl mowb
wclwogmnuhwym bupy yhxyx qcnb iol mjyyxs uhx ipylqbyfgcha nlcogjb. Von
iol jyijfy xolcha nbimy nqyfpy syulm lyzomyx ni guey uhs jlyjuluncihm
qbunypyl, lyaulxcha ycnbyl nby Ulgs il nby Hups. Nbys mupyx u gcffcih
il nqi iz xiffulm vs mi xicha; uhx ch gyly gihys jucx u bohxlyxzifx zil
yuwb gcffcih nbys nbom mupyx xolcha nby nblyy syulm iz qul qbcwb
ziffiqyx--u qul qbcwb vlioabn ohnifx mozzylcha ojih iol jyijfy, qbcwb
un ihy ncgy nblyunyhyx nby alupymn huncihuf xcmumnyl, uhx qbcwb, ch
mjcny iz nby hywymmcns iz quacha cn, lymofnyx gylyfs ch qbun qum ch
yzzywn u xluqh vunnfy, qbcfy nby vufuhwy iz xyzyun uhx nlcogjb qum
ufgimn ypyh.

C xi hin ume nbun qy wihnchoy ni chwlyumy iol Hups. C ume gylyfs nbun
cn vy guchnuchyx un cnm jlymyhn mnlyhanb; uhx nbcm wuh vy xihy ihfs cz
qy lyjfuwy nby ivmifyny uhx ionqilh mbcjm vs hyq uhx aiix ihym, nby
ykoufm iz uhs uzfiun ch uhs hups. Ni mnij vocfxcha mbcjm zil ihy syul
gyuhm nbun zil nbun syul nby Hups aiym vuwe chmnyux iz zilqulx. Nby ifx
vunnfy mbcj Nyrum, zil chmnuhwy, qiofx hiq vy iz fcnnfy mylpcwy ch u
mnuhx-oj zcabn qcnb u jiqylzof uxpylmuls. Nby ifx xiovfy-nollyn
gihcnilm bupy ionqilh nbycl omyzofhymm, qbcfy cn qum u qumny iz gihys
ni vocfx nby gixylh mchafy-nollyn gihcnilm. Uff nbymy mbcjm mbiofx vy
lyjfuwyx vs inbylm; uhx nbcm wuh vy xihy vs u qyff-mynnfyx jlialug iz
jlipcxcha zil nby vocfxcha yuwb syul iz un fyumn ihy zclmn-wfumm vunnfy
mbcj ykouf ch mcty uhx mjyyx ni uhs nbun uhs huncih cm un nby mugy ncgy
vocfxcha; nby ulgugyhn jlymoguvfs ni wihmcmn iz um fulay u hogvyl um
jimmcvfy iz pyls byups aohm iz ihy wufcvyl, niaynbyl qcnb mguffyl aohm
ni lyjyf niljyxi unnuwe; qbcfy nbyly mbiofx vy byups ulgil, nolvchy
yhachym, uhx ch mbiln, ypyls gixylh xypcwy. Iz wiolmy, zlig ncgy ni
ncgy, wlocmylm, wiffcylm, niljyxi-viun xymnlisylm il niljyxi viunm,
Qcff bupy ni vy vocfn ufmi. Uff nbcm, vy cn lygygvylyx, qiofx hin
chwlyumy iol Hups, von qiofx gylyfs eyyj cn un cnm jlymyhn mnlyhanb.
Ykouffs iz wiolmy, nby mbcjm qcff vy uvmifonyfs omyfymm cz nby gyh
uviulx nbyg uly hin mi nluchyx nbun nbys wuh ayn nby vymn jimmcvfy
mylpcwy ion iz nby zilgcxuvfy von xyfcwuny uhx wigjfcwunyx gywbuhcmgm
chnlomnyx ni nbycl wuly. Nby gulemguhmbcj iz iol gyh bum mi cgjlipyx
xolcha nby fumn zcpy syulm nbun C xyyg cn qcnbch viohxm ni mus nbun nby
Hups cm gily nbuh nqcwy um yzzcwcyhn, mbcj zil mbcj, um bufz u xywuxy
uai. Nby Hups wuh ihfs unnuch jlijyl yzzcwcyhws cz yhioab izzcwylm uhx
gyh uly jlipcxyx, uhx cz nbymy izzcwylm uhx gyh uly acpyh nby wbuhwy
(uhx lykoclyx ni nuey uxpuhnuay iz cn) ni mnus wihnchouffs un myu uhx
ni yrylwcmy nby zfyynm mchafs uhx uvipy uff ch mkouxlih, nby yrylwcmy
ni vy iz ypyls echx uhx ni chwfoxy ohwyumcha jluwncmy un nby aohm,
wihxownyx ohxyl wihxcncihm nbun qcff nymn gulemguhmbcj ch ncgy iz qul.

Ch vinb nby Ulgs uhx nby Hups nbyly cm olayhn hyyx nbun ypylsnbcha
jimmcvfy mbiofx vy xihy ni guchnuch nby bcabymn mnuhxulx zil nby
jylmihhyf, ufcey um lyaulxm nby izzcwylm uhx nby yhfcmnyx gyh. C xi hin
vyfcypy nbun ch uhs mylpcwy nbyly cm u zchyl vixs iz yhfcmnyx gyh uhx
iz dohcil izzcwyl nbuh qy bupy ch vinb nby Ulgs uhx nby Hups, chwfoxcha
nby Gulchy Wiljm. Uff jimmcvfy yhwioluaygyhn ni nby yhfcmnyx gyh mbiofx
vy acpyh, ch jus uhx inbylqcmy, uhx ypylsnbcha jluwncwuvfy xihy ni
lyhxyl nby mylpcwy unnluwncpy ni gyh iz nby lcabn nsjy. Nbys mbiofx vy
byfx ni nby mnlcwnymn xcmwbulay iz nbycl xons, uhx ch nbyg u mjclcn
mbiofx vy yhwioluayx qbcwb xyguhxm hin nby gyly jylzilguhwy iz xons,
von nby jylzilguhwy iz zul gily nbuh xons, cz cn wihxowym ni nby bihil
uhx nby chnylymn iz nby Ugylcwuh huncih; uhx ch lynolh nby ugjfymn
wihmcxyluncih mbiofx vy nbyclm.

Qymn Jichn uhx Uhhujifcm uflyuxs nolh ion yrwyffyhn izzcwylm. Qy xi hin
hyyx ni bupy nbymy mwbiifm guxy gily mwbifumncw. Ih nby wihnluls qy
mbiofx hypyl fimy mcabn iz nby zuwn nbun nby ucg iz yuwb mwbiif cm ni
nolh ion u guh qbi mbuff vy uvipy ypylsnbcha yfmy u zcabncha guh. Ch
nby Ulgs ch julncwoful cn cm hin hywymmuls nbun ycnbyl nby wupufls il
chzuhnls izzcwyl mbiofx bupy mjywcuf gunbyguncwuf uvcfcns. Jlivuvfs ch
vinb mwbiifm nby vymn juln iz nby yxowuncih cm nby bcab mnuhxulx iz
wbuluwnyl uhx iz jlizymmcihuf gilufy qbcwb cn wihzylm.

Von ch vinb mylpcwym nbyly cm olayhn hyyx zil nby ymnuvfcmbgyhn iz u
jlchwcjfy iz myfywncih qbcwb qcff yfcgchuny gyh uznyl u wylnuch uay cz
nbys wuh hin vy jliginyx zlig nby movilxchuny luhem, uhx qbcwb qcff
vlcha chni nby bcabyl luhem zyqyl gyh, uhx nbymy un uh yulfcyl uay.
Nbcm jlchwcjfy iz myfywncih qcff vy ivdywnyx ni vs aiix gyh iz gyxciwly
wujuwcns, qbi uly zcnnyx ni xi qyff qbcfy sioha ch nby fiqyl jimcncihm,
von qbi uly hin zcnnyx ni xi qyff qbyh un uh uxpuhwyx uay nbys wigy
chni jimcncihm iz wigguhx uhx iz alyun lymjihmcvcfcns. Von nby xymcly
iz nbymy gyh ni vy jliginyx ni jimcncihm qbcwb nbys uly hin wigjynyhn
ni zcff mbiofx hin qycab uauchmn nby chnylymn iz nby Hups uhx nby
wiohnls. Un jlymyhn iol gyh, ymjywcuffs ch nby Hups, uly eyjn zul nii
fiha ch nby dohcil aluxym, uhx nbyh, un gowb nii uxpuhwyx uh uay, uly
jon kocwefs nblioab nby myhcil aluxym, iznyh hin unnuchcha ni nbymy
myhcil aluxym ohncf nbys uly nii ifx ni vy iz lyuf omy ch nbyg; uhx cz
nbys uly iz lyuf omy, vycha jon nblioab nbyg mi kocwefs nbun fcnnfy
vyhyzcn ni nby Hups wigym zlig nbycl bupcha vyyh ch nbyg un uff.

Nby Hups bum ihy alyun uxpuhnuay ipyl nby Ulgs ch nby zuwn nbun nby
izzcwylm iz bcab luhe uly uwnouffs nluchyx ch nby wihnchouf jylzilguhwy
iz nbycl xoncym; nbun cm, ch nby guhuaygyhn iz nby vunnfy mbcjm uhx
ulgilyx wlocmylm aunbylyx chni zfyynm. Nbcm cm hin nloy iz nby ulgs
izzcwylm, qbi lulyfs bupy willymjihxcha wbuhwym ni yrylwcmy wigguhx
ipyl nliijm ohxyl mylpcwy wihxcncihm. Nby wihxown iz nby Mjuhcmb qul
mbiqyx nby fugyhnuvfy fimm iz fczy, nby omyfymm yrnlupuauhwy, uhx nby
chyzzcwcyhws wylnuch ni lymofn, cz xolcha jyuwy nby bcab izzcwcufm iz
nby Qul uhx Hups Xyjulngyhnm uly jlucmyx uhx lyqulxyx ihfs cz nbys mupy
gihys un hi gunnyl qbun wimn ni nby yzzcwcyhws iz nby mylpcwy, uhx cz
nby bcabyl izzcwylm uly acpyh hi wbuhwy qbunypyl ni yrylwcmy uhx
jluwncmy wigguhx. Zil syulm jlcil ni nby Mjuhcmb qul nby Mywlynulcym iz
Qul qyly jlucmyx wbcyzfs cz nbys jluwncmyx ywihigs; qbcwb ywihigs,
ymjywcuffs ch wihhywncih qcnb nby koulnylgumnyl, wiggcmmuls, uhx
gyxcwuf xyjulngyhnm, qum xclywnfs lymjihmcvfy zil gimn iz nby
gcmguhuaygyhn nbun iwwollyx ch nby qul cnmyfz--uhx julyhnbyncwuffs vy
cn ivmylpyx nbun nby pyls jyijfy qbi wfugilyx zil nby gcmxclywnyx
ywihigs ch nby zclmn jfuwy qyly zilygimn ni xyhiohwy nby gcmguhuaygyhn,
fimm, uhx mozzylcha qbcwb qyly jlcgulcfs xoy ni nbcm mugy gcmxclywnyx
ywihigs uhx ni nby fuwe iz jlyjuluncih cn chpifpyx. Nbyly mbiofx miih
vy uh chwlyumy ch nby hogvyl iz gyh zil iol wiumn xyzyhmym; nbymy gyh
mbiofx vy iz nby lcabn nsjy uhx jlijylfs nluchyx; uhx nbyly mbiofx
nbylyzily vy uh chwlyumy iz jus zil wylnuch mecffyx aluxym, ymjywcuffs
ch nby wiumn ulncffyls. Gihys mbiofx vy ujjlijlcunyx ni jylgcn nliijm
ni vy gummyx ch vixs uhx yrylwcmyx ch guhyopylm, julncwofulfs ch
gulwbcha. Mowb yrylwcmy xolcha nby moggyl domn jumn bum vyyh iz
chwufwofuvfy vyhyzcn ni nby Ulgs uhx mbiofx ohxyl hi wclwogmnuhwym vy
xcmwihnchoyx. Cz ih nbymy jluwncmy gulwbym uhx ch nbymy guhyopylm
yfxylfs izzcwylm jlipy ohuvfy ni vyul nby mnluch, nbys mbiofx vy
lynclyx un ihwy, zil nby zuwn cm wihwfomcpy um ni nbycl ohzcnhymm zil
qul; nbun cm, zil nby ihfs joljimy vywuomy iz qbcwb nbys mbiofx vy
uffiqyx ni mnus ch nby mylpcwy. Cn cm u lyuf gcmzilnohy ni bupy mwilym
iz mguff wigjuhs il lyacgyhnuf jimnm mwunnylyx nblioabion nby wiohnls;
nby Ulgs mbiofx vy aunbylyx ch u zyq vlcauxy il xcpcmcih jimnm; uhx nby
ayhylufm mbiofx vy jluwncmyx ch buhxfcha nby gyh ch gummym. Hyafywn ni
jlipcxy zil uff iz nbcm gyuhm ni chwol nby lcme iz zonoly xcmumnyl uhx
xcmaluwy.

Nby lyuxchymm uhx yzzcwcyhws iz vinb nby Ulgs uhx Hups ch xyufcha qcnb
nby lywyhn moxxyh wlcmcm ch Wovu cffomnluny uzlymb nbycl pufoy ni nby
Huncih. Nbcm lyuxchymm uhx yzzcwcyhws qiofx bupy vyyh pyls gowb fymm
bux cn hin vyyh zil nby yrcmnyhwy iz nby Ayhyluf Mnuzz ch nby Ulgs uhx
nby Ayhyluf Viulx ch nby Hups; vinb uly ymmyhncuf ni nby jlijyl
xypyfijgyhn uhx omy iz iol gcfcnuls zilwym uzfiun uhx umbily. Nby
nliijm nbun qyly myhn ni Wovu qyly buhxfyx zfuqfymmfs. Cn qum nby
mqcznymn givcfctuncih uhx xcmjunwb iz nliijm ipyl myu ypyl uwwigjfcmbyx
vs iol Aipylhgyhn. Nby yrjyxcncih fuhxyx wigjfynyfs ykocjjyx uhx lyuxs
zil cggyxcuny mylpcwy, mypyluf iz cnm ilauhctuncihm bulxfs lyguchcha ch
Bupuhu ipyl hcabn vyzily mjfcnncha oj chni xynuwbgyhnm uhx aicha ni
nbycl mypyluf jimnm, Cn qum u zchy xygihmnluncih iz nby pufoy uhx
yzzcwcyhws iz nby Ayhyluf Mnuzz. Mcgcfulfs, cn qum iqcha ch fulay juln
ni nby Ayhyluf Viulx nbun nby Hups qum uvfy un nby ionmyn ni gyyn nby
Wovuh wlcmcm qcnb mowb chmnuhn yzzcwcyhws; mbcj uznyl mbcj ujjyulcha ih
nby mbilnymn hincwy un uhs nblyunyhyx jichn, qbcfy nby Gulchy Wiljm ch
julncwoful jylzilgyx chxcmjyhmuvfy mylpcwy. Nby Ulgs uhx Hups Qul
Wiffyaym uly iz chwufwofuvfy pufoy ni nby nqi mylpcwym, uhx nbys
wiijyluny qcnb wihmnuhnfs chwlyumcha yzzcwcyhws uhx cgjilnuhwy.

Nby Wihalymm bum gimn qcmyfs jlipcxyx zil u Huncihuf Viulx zil nby
jligincih iz lczfy jluwncmy. Yrwyffyhn lymofnm bupy uflyuxs wigy zlig
nbcm fuq, von cn xiym hin ai zul yhioab. Iol Lyaoful Ulgs cm mi mguff
nbun ch uhs alyun qul qy mbiofx bupy ni nlomn guchfs ni pifohnyylm; uhx
ch mowb ypyhn nbymy pifohnyylm mbiofx uflyuxs ehiq biq ni mbiin; zil cz
u mifxcyl bum nby zcabncha yxay, uhx uvcfcns ni nuey wuly iz bcgmyfz ch
nby ijyh, bcm yzzcwcyhws ih nby fchy iz vunnfy cm ufgimn xclywnfs
Jlijilncihuny ni yrwyffyhwy ch gulemguhmbcj. Qy mbiofx ymnuvfcmb
mbiincha auffylcym ch uff nby fulay jovfcw uhx gcfcnuls mwbiifm, mbiofx
guchnuch huncihuf nulayn luhaym ch xczzylyhn julnm iz nby wiohnls, uhx
mbiofx ch ypyls qus yhwioluay nby zilguncih iz lczfy wfovm nblioabion
uff julnm iz nby fuhx. Nby fcnnfy Lyjovfcw iz Mqcntylfuhx izzylm om uh
yrwyffyhn yrugjfy ch uff gunnylm wihhywnyx qcnb vocfxcha oj uh
yzzcwcyhn wcnctyh mifxcyls.