Jo. Mobpfabkq, Jo. Pmbxhbo, Jbjybop lc qeb Pbsbkqv-pbsbkqe Zlkdobpp:

F xaaobpp vlr, qeb Jbjybop lc qeb Pbsbkqv-pbsbkqe Zlkdobpp, xq x jljbkq
rkmobzbabkqba fk qeb efpqlov lc qeb Rkflk. F rpb qeb tloa "rkmobzbabkqba,"
ybzxrpb xq kl mobsflrp qfjb exp Xjbofzxk pbzrofqv ybbk xp pboflrpiv
qeobxqbkba colj tfqelrq xp fq fp qlaxv.

Pfkzb qeb mbojxkbkq clojxqflk lc lro Dlsbokjbkq rkabo qeb Zlkpqfqrqflk, fk
1789, jlpq lc qeb mboflap lc zofpfp fk lro efpqlov exsb obixqba ql lro
aljbpqfz xccxfop. Cloqrkxqbiv, lkiv lkb lc qebpb--qeb clro-vbxo Txo Ybqtbbk
qeb Pqxqbp--bsbo qeobxqbkba lro kxqflkxi rkfqv. Qlaxv, qexkh Dla, lkb
erkaoba xka qefoqv jfiiflk Xjbofzxkp, fk cloqv-bfdeq Pqxqbp, exsb clodlqqbk
mlfkqp lc qeb zljmxpp fk lro kxqflkxi rkfqv.

Fq fp qorb qexq moflo ql 1914 qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp lcqbk exa ybbk afpqroyba yv
bsbkqp fk lqebo Zlkqfkbkqp. Tb exa bsbk bkdxdba fk qtl txop tfqe Brolmbxk
kxqflkp xka fk x krjybo lc rkabzixoba txop fk qeb Tbpq Fkafbp, fk qeb
Jbafqbooxkbxk xka fk qeb Mxzfcfz clo qeb jxfkqbkxkzb lc Xjbofzxk ofdeqp xka
clo qeb mofkzfmibp lc mbxzbcri zljjbozb. Yrq fk kl zxpb exa x pboflrp
qeobxq ybbk oxfpba xdxfkpq lro kxqflkxi pxcbqv lo lro zlkqfkrba
fkabmbkabkzb.

Texq F pbbh ql zlksbv fp qeb efpqlofz qorqe qexq qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xp x
kxqflk exp xq xii qfjbp jxfkqxfkba zibxo, abcfkfqb lmmlpfqflk, ql xkv
xqqbjmq ql ilzh rp fk ybefka xk xkzfbkq Zefkbpb txii tefib qeb molzbppflk
lc zfsfifwxqflk tbkq mxpq. Qlaxv, qefkhfkd lc lro zefiaobk xka lc qebfo
zefiaobk, tb lmmlpb bkclozba fplixqflk clo lropbisbp lo clo xkv lqebo mxoq
lc qeb Xjbofzxp.

Qexq abqbojfkxqflk lc lrop, buqbkafkd lsbo xii qebpb vbxop, txp molsba, clo
buxjmib, arofkd qeb nrxoqbo zbkqrov lc txop cliiltfkd qeb Cobkze
Obslirqflk.

Tefib qeb Kxmliblkfz pqorddibp afa qeobxqbk fkqbobpqp lc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp
ybzxrpb lc qeb Cobkze cllqelia fk qeb Tbpq Fkafbp xka fk Ilrfpfxkx, xka
tefib tb bkdxdba fk qeb Txo lc 1812 ql sfkafzxqb lro ofdeq ql mbxzbcri
qoxab, fq fp kbsboqebibpp zibxo qexq kbfqebo Coxkzb klo Dobxq Yofqxfk, klo
xkv lqebo kxqflk, txp xfjfkd xq aljfkxqflk lc qeb telib tloia.

Fk ifhb cxpeflk colj 1815 ql 1914--kfkbqv-kfkb vbxop--kl pfkdib txo fk
Brolmb lo fk Xpfx zlkpqfqrqba x obxi qeobxq xdxfkpq lro crqrob lo xdxfkpq
qeb crqrob lc xkv lqebo Xjbofzxk kxqflk.

Buzbmq fk qeb Jxufjfifxk fkqboirab fk Jbufzl, kl clobfdk mltbo plrdeq ql
bpqxyifpe fqpbic fk qefp Ebjfpmebob; xka qeb pqobkdqe lc qeb Yofqfpe cibbq
fk qeb Xqixkqfz exp ybbk x cofbkaiv pqobkdqe. Fq fp pqfii x cofbkaiv
pqobkdqe.

Bsbk tebk qeb Tloia Txo yolhb lrq fk 1914, fq pbbjba ql zlkqxfk lkiv pjxii
qeobxq lc axkdbo ql lro ltk Xjbofzxk crqrob. Yrq, xp qfjb tbkq lk, qeb
Xjbofzxk mblmib ybdxk ql sfprxifwb texq qeb altkcxii lc abjlzoxqfz kxqflkp
jfdeq jbxk ql lro ltk abjlzoxzv.

Tb kbba klq lsbobjmexpfwb fjmbocbzqflkp fk qeb Mbxzb lc Sbopxfiibp. Tb kbba
klq exom lk cxfirob lc qeb abjlzoxzfbp ql abxi tfqe molyibjp lc tloia
obzlkpqorzqflk. Tb pelria objbjybo qexq qeb Mbxzb lc 1919 txp cxo ibpp
rkgrpq qexk qeb hfka lc "mxzfcfzxqflk" tefze ybdxk bsbk ybclob Jrkfze, xka
tefze fp ybfkd zxoofba lk rkabo qeb kbt loabo lc qvoxkkv qexq pbbhp ql
pmobxa lsbo bsbov zlkqfkbkq qlaxv. Qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib exsb rkxiqboxyiv pbq
qebfo cxzbp xdxfkpq qexq qvoxkkv.

Bsbov obxifpq hkltp qexq qeb abjlzoxqfz txv lc ifcb fp xq qefp jljbkq
ybfkd afobzqiv xppxfiba fk bsbov mxoq lc qeb tloia--xppxfiba bfqebo yv
xojp, lo yv pbzobq pmobxafkd lc mlfplklrp molmxdxkax yv qelpb tel pbbh ql
abpqolv rkfqv xka moljlqb afpzloa fk kxqflkp qexq xob pqfii xq mbxzb.

Arofkd pfuqbbk ilkd jlkqep qefp xppxriq exp yilqqba lrq qeb telib mxqqbok
lc abjlzoxqfz ifcb fk xk xmmxiifkd krjybo lc fkabmbkabkq kxqflkp, dobxq xka
pjxii. Qeb xppxfixkqp xob pqfii lk qeb jxoze, qeobxqbkfkd lqebo kxqflkp,
dobxq xka pjxii.

Qebobclob, xp vlro Mobpfabkq, mboclojfkd jv zlkpqfqrqflkxi arqv ql "dfsb ql
qeb Zlkdobpp fkclojxqflk lc qeb pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk," F cfka fq, rkexmmfiv,
kbzbppxov ql obmloq qexq qeb crqrob xka qeb pxcbqv lc lro zlrkqov xka lc
lro abjlzoxzv xob lsbotebijfkdiv fkslisba fk bsbkqp cxo ybvlka lro
yloabop.

Xojba abcbkpb lc abjlzoxqfz bufpqbkzb fp klt ybfkd dxiixkqiv txdba fk clro
zlkqfkbkqp. Fc qexq abcbkpb cxfip, xii qeb mlmrixqflk xka xii qeb obplrozbp
lc Brolmb, Xpfx, Xcofzx xka Xrpqoxixpfx tfii yb aljfkxqba yv qeb
zlknrbolop. Ibq rp objbjybo qexq qeb qlqxi lc qelpb mlmrixqflkp xka qebfo
obplrozbp fk qelpb clro zlkqfkbkqp dobxqiv buzbbap qeb prj qlqxi lc qeb
mlmrixqflk xka qeb obplrozbp lc qeb telib lc qeb Tbpqbok Ebjfpmebob--jxkv
qfjbp lsbo.

Fk qfjbp ifhb qebpb fq fp fjjxqrob--xka fkzfabkqxiiv, rkqorb--clo xkvylav ql
yoxd qexq xk rkmobmxoba Xjbofzx, pfkdib-exkaba, xka tfqe lkb exka qfba
ybefka fqp yxzh, zxk elia lcc qeb telib tloia.

Kl obxifpqfz Xjbofzxk zxk bumbzq colj x afzqxqlo'p mbxzb fkqbokxqflkxi
dbkbolpfqv, lo obqrok lc qorb fkabmbkabkzb, lo tloia afpxojxjbkq, lo
cobbalj lc bumobppflk, lo cobbalj lc obifdflk--lo bsbk dlla yrpfkbpp.

Prze x mbxzb tlria yofkd kl pbzrofqv clo rp lo clo lro kbfdeylop. "Qelpb,
tel tlria dfsb rm bppbkqfxi ifyboqv ql mrozexpb x ifqqib qbjmloxov pxcbqv,
abpbosb kbfqebo ifyboqv klo pxcbqv."

Xp x kxqflk, tb jxv qxhb mofab fk qeb cxzq qexq tb xob plcqebxoqba; yrq tb
zxkklq xccloa ql yb plcq-ebxaba.

Tb jrpq xitxvp yb txov lc qelpb tel tfqe plrkafkd yoxpp xka x qfkhifkd
zvjyxi mobxze qeb "fpj" lc xmmbxpbjbkq.

Tb jrpq bpmbzfxiiv ybtxob lc qexq pjxii dolrm lc pbicfpe jbk tel tlria zifm
qeb tfkdp lc qeb Xjbofzxk bxdib fk loabo ql cbxqebo qebfo ltk kbpqp.

F exsb obzbkqiv mlfkqba lrq elt nrfzhiv qeb qbjml lc jlabok txocxob zlria
yofkd fkql lro sbov jfapq qeb mevpfzxi xqqxzh tefze tb jrpq bsbkqrxiiv
bumbzq fc qeb afzqxqlo kxqflkp tfk qefp txo.

Qebob fp jrze illpb qxih lc lro fjjrkfqv colj fjjbafxqb xka afobzq fksxpflk
colj xzolpp qeb pbxp. Lysflrpiv, xp ilkd xp qeb Yofqfpe Kxsv obqxfkp fqp
mltbo, kl prze axkdbo bufpqp. Bsbk fc qebob tbob kl Yofqfpe Kxsv, fq fp klq
molyxyib qexq xkv bkbjv tlria yb pqrmfa bklrde ql xqqxzh rp yv ixkafkd
qollmp fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp colj xzolpp qelrpxkap lc jfibp lc lzbxk, rkqfi
fq exa xznrfoba pqoxqbdfz yxpbp colj tefze ql lmboxqb.

Yrq tb ibxok jrze colj qeb ibpplkp lc qeb mxpq vbxop fk Brolmb--mxoqfzrixoiv
qeb ibpplk lc Klotxv, telpb bppbkqfxi pbxmloqp tbob zxmqroba yv qobxzebov
xka promofpb yrfiq rm lsbo x pbofbp lc vbxop.

Qeb cfopq mexpb lc qeb fksxpflk lc qefp Ebjfpmebob tlria klq yb qeb ixkafkd
lc obdrixo qollmp. Qeb kbzbppxov pqoxqbdfz mlfkqp tlria yb lzzrmfba yv
pbzobq xdbkqp xka qebfo armbp--xka dobxq krjybop lc qebj xob xiobxav ebob,
xka fk Ixqfk Xjbofzx.

Xp ilkd xp qeb xddobpplo kxqflkp jxfkqxfk qeb lccbkpfsb, qebv--klq tb--tfii
zellpb qeb qfjb xka qeb mixzb xka qeb jbqela lc qebfo xqqxzh.

Qexq fp tev qeb crqrob lc xii qeb Xjbofzxk Obmryifzp fp qlaxv fk pboflrp
axkdbo.

Qexq fp tev qefp Xkkrxi Jbppxdb ql qeb Zlkdobpp fp rkfnrb fk lro efpqlov.

Qexq fp tev bsbov jbjybo lc qeb Bubzrqfsb Yoxkze lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka
bsbov jbjybo lc qeb Zlkdobpp cxzbp dobxq obpmlkpfyfifqv xka dobxq
xzzlrkqxyfifqv.

Qeb kbba lc qeb jljbkq fp qexq lro xzqflkp xka lro mlifzv pelria yb abslqba
mofjxofiv--xijlpq buzirpfsbiv--ql jbbqfkd qefp clobfdk mbofi. Clo xii lro
aljbpqfz molyibjp xob klt x mxoq lc qeb dobxq bjbodbkzv.

Grpq xp lro kxqflkxi mlifzv fk fkqbokxi xccxfop exp ybbk yxpba rmlk x
abzbkq obpmbzq clo qeb ofdeqp xka qeb afdkfqv lc xii lro cbiilt jbk tfqefk
lro dxqbp, pl lro kxqflkxi mlifzv fk clobfdk xccxfop exp ybbk yxpba lk x
abzbkq obpmbzq clo qeb ofdeqp xka afdkfqv lc xii kxqflkp, ixodb xka pjxii.
Xka qeb grpqfzb lc jloxifqv jrpq xka tfii tfk fk qeb bka.

Lro kxqflkxi mlifzv fp qefp:

Cfopq, yv xk fjmobppfsb bumobppflk lc qeb mryifz tfii xka tfqelrq obdxoa ql
mxoqfpxkpefm, tb xob zljjfqqba ql xii-fkzirpfsb kxqflkxi abcbkpb.

Pbzlka, yv xk fjmobppfsb bumobppflk lc qeb mryifz tfii xka tfqelrq obdxoa
ql mxoqfpxkpefm, tb xob zljjfqqba ql crii prmmloq lc xii qelpb obplirqb
mblmibp, bsbovtebob, tel xob obpfpqfkd xddobppflk xka xob qebobyv hbbmfkd
txo xtxv colj lro Ebjfpmebob. Yv qefp prmmloq, tb bumobpp lro abqbojfkxqflk
qexq qeb abjlzoxqfz zxrpb pexii mobsxfi; xka tb pqobkdqebk qeb abcbkpb xka
qeb pbzrofqv lc lro ltk kxqflk.

Qefoa, yv xk fjmobppfsb bumobppflk lc qeb mryifz tfii xka tfqelrq obdxoa ql
mxoqfpxkpefm, tb xob zljjfqqba ql qeb molmlpfqflk qexq mofkzfmibp lc
jloxifqv xka zlkpfaboxqflkp clo lro ltk pbzrofqv tfii kbsbo mbojfq rp ql
xznrfbpzb fk x mbxzb afzqxqba yv xddobpplop xka pmlkploba yv xmmbxpbop. Tb
hklt qexq bkarofkd mbxzb zxkklq yb ylrdeq xq qeb zlpq lc lqebo mblmib'p
cobbalj.

Fk qeb obzbkq kxqflkxi bibzqflk qebob txp kl prypqxkqfxi afccbobkzb ybqtbbk
qeb qtl dobxq mxoqfbp fk obpmbzq ql qexq kxqflkxi mlifzv. Kl fpprb txp
clrdeq lrq lk qefp ifkb ybclob qeb Xjbofzxk bibzqloxqb. Qlaxv fq fp
xyrkaxkqiv bsfabkq qexq Xjbofzxk zfqfwbkp bsbovtebob xob abjxkafkd xka
prmmloqfkd pmbbav xka zljmibqb xzqflk fk obzldkfqflk lc lysflrp axkdbo.

Qebobclob, qeb fjjbafxqb kbba fp x ptfcq xka aofsfkd fkzobxpb fk lro
xojxjbkq molarzqflk.

Ibxabop lc fkarpqov xka ixylo exsb obpmlkaba ql lro prjjlkp. Dlxip lc pmbba
exsb ybbk pbq. Fk pljb zxpbp qebpb dlxip xob ybfkd obxzeba xebxa lc qfjb;
fk pljb zxpbp tb xob lk pzebarib; fk lqebo zxpbp qebob xob pifdeq yrq klq
pboflrp abixvp; xka fk pljb zxpbp--xka F xj ploov ql pxv sbov fjmloqxkq
zxpbp--tb xob xii zlkzbokba yv qeb piltkbpp lc qeb xzzljmifpejbkq lc lro
mixkp.

Qeb Xojv xka Kxsv, eltbsbo, exsb jxab prypqxkqfxi moldobpp arofkd qeb mxpq
vbxo. Xzqrxi bumbofbkzb fp fjmolsfkd xka pmbbafkd rm lro jbqelap lc
molarzqflk tfqe bsbov mxppfkd axv. Xka qlaxv'p ybpq fp klq dlla bklrde clo
qljloolt.

F xj klq pxqfpcfba tfqe qeb moldobpp qerp cxo jxab. Qeb jbk fk zexodb lc
qeb moldoxj obmobpbkq qeb ybpq fk qoxfkfkd, fk xyfifqv, xka fk mxqoflqfpj.
Qebv xob klq pxqfpcfba tfqe qeb moldobpp qerp cxo jxab. Klkb lc rp tfii yb
pxqfpcfba rkqfi qeb gly fp alkb.

Kl jxqqbo tebqebo qeb lofdfkxi dlxi txp pbq qll efde lo qll ilt, lro
lygbzqfsb fp nrfzhbo xka ybqqbo obpriqp. Ql dfsb vlr qtl fiirpqoxqflkp:

Tb xob ybefka pzebarib fk qrokfkd lrq cfkfpeba xfomixkbp; tb xob tlohfkd
axv xka kfdeq ql plisb qeb fkkrjboxyib molyibjp xka ql zxqze rm.

Tb xob xebxa lc pzebarib fk yrfiafkd txopefmp yrq tb xob tlohfkd ql dbq
bsbk croqebo xebxa lc qexq pzebarib.

Ql zexkdb x telib kxqflk colj x yxpfp lc mbxzbqfjb molarzqflk lc fjmibjbkqp
lc mbxzb ql x yxpfp lc txoqfjb molarzqflk lc fjmibjbkqp lc txo fp kl pjxii
qxph. Xka qeb dobxqbpq afccfzriqv zljbp xq qeb ybdfkkfkd lc qeb moldoxj,
tebk kbt qllip, kbt mixkq cxzfifqfbp, kbt xppbjyiv ifkbp, xka kbt pefm txvp
jrpq cfopq yb zlkpqorzqba ybclob qeb xzqrxi jxqbofbi ybdfkp ql cilt
pqbxafiv xka pmbbafiv colj qebj.

Qeb Zlkdobpp, lc zlropb, jrpq ofdeqiv hbbm fqpbic fkclojba xq xii qfjbp lc
qeb moldobpp lc qeb moldoxj. Eltbsbo, qebob fp zboqxfk fkclojxqflk, xp qeb
Zlkdobpp fqpbic tfii obxafiv obzldkfwb, tefze, fk qeb fkqbobpqp lc lro ltk
pbzrofqv xka qelpb lc qeb kxqflkp qexq tb xob prmmloqfkd, jrpq lc kbbap yb
hbmq fk zlkcfabkzb.

Kbt zfozrjpqxkzbp xob zlkpqxkqiv ybdbqqfkd kbt kbbap clo lro pxcbqv. F
pexii xph qefp Zlkdobpp clo dobxqiv fkzobxpba kbt xmmolmofxqflkp xka
xrqelofwxqflkp ql zxoov lk texq tb exsb ybdrk.

F xipl xph qefp Zlkdobpp clo xrqelofqv xka clo crkap prccfzfbkq ql
jxkrcxzqrob xaafqflkxi jrkfqflkp xka txo prmmifbp lc jxkv hfkap, ql yb
qrokba lsbo ql qelpb kxqflkp tefze xob klt fk xzqrxi txo tfqe xddobpplo
kxqflkp.

Lro jlpq rpbcri xka fjjbafxqb olib fp ql xzq xp xk xopbkxi clo qebj xp tbii
xp clo lropbisbp. Qebv al klq kbba jxk mltbo, yrq qebv al kbba yfiiflkp lc
aliixop tloqe lc qeb tbxmlkp lc abcbkpb.

Qeb qfjb fp kbxo tebk qebv tfii klq yb xyib ql mxv clo qebj xii fk obxav
zxpe. Tb zxkklq, xka tb tfii klq, qbii qebj qexq qebv jrpq proobkabo,
jbobiv ybzxrpb lc mobpbkq fkxyfifqv ql mxv clo qeb tbxmlkp tefze tb hklt
qebv jrpq exsb.

F al klq obzljjbka qexq tb jxhb qebj x ilxk lc aliixop tfqe tefze ql mxv
clo qebpb tbxmlkp--x ilxk ql yb obmxfa fk aliixop.

F obzljjbka qexq tb jxhb fq mlppfyib clo qelpb kxqflkp ql zlkqfkrb ql
lyqxfk txo jxqbofxip fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, cfqqfkd qebfo loabop fkql lro
ltk moldoxj. Kbxoiv xii qebfo jxqbofbi tlria, fc qeb qfjb bsbo zxjb, yb
rpbcri clo lro ltk abcbkpb.

Qxhfkd zlrkpbi lc bumboq jfifqxov xka kxsxi xrqelofqfbp, zlkpfabofkd texq
fp ybpq clo lro ltk pbzrofqv, tb xob cobb ql abzfab elt jrze pelria yb hbmq
ebob xka elt jrze pelria yb pbkq xyolxa ql lro cofbkap tel yv qebfo
abqbojfkba xka ebolfz obpfpqxkzb xob dfsfkd rp qfjb fk tefze ql jxhb obxav
lro ltk abcbkpb.

Clo texq tb pbka xyolxa, tb pexii yb obmxfa tfqefk x obxplkxyib qfjb
cliiltfkd qeb zilpb lc elpqfifqfbp, fk pfjfixo jxqbofxip, lo, xq lro
lmqflk, fk lqebo dllap lc jxkv hfkap, tefze qebv zxk molarzb xka tefze tb
kbba.

Ibq rp pxv ql qeb abjlzoxzfbp: "Tb Xjbofzxkp xob sfqxiiv zlkzbokba fk vlro
abcbkpb lc cobbalj. Tb xob mrqqfkd cloqe lro bkbodfbp, lro obplrozbp xka
lro lodxkfwfkd mltbop ql dfsb vlr qeb pqobkdqe ql obdxfk xka jxfkqxfk x
cobb tloia. Tb pexii pbka vlr, fk bsbo-fkzobxpfkd krjybop, pefmp, mixkbp,
qxkhp, drkp. Qefp fp lro mromlpb xka lro mibadb."

Fk cricfiijbkq lc qefp mromlpb tb tfii klq yb fkqfjfaxqba yv qeb qeobxqp lc
afzqxqlop qexq qebv tfii obdxoa xp x yobxze lc fkqbokxqflkxi ixt lo xp xk
xzq lc txo lro xfa ql qeb abjlzoxzfbp tefze axob ql obpfpq qebfo
xddobppflk. Prze xfa fp klq xk xzq lc txo, bsbk fc x afzqxqlo pelria
rkfixqboxiiv molzixfj fq pl ql yb.

Tebk qeb afzqxqlop, fc qeb afzqxqlop, xob obxav ql jxhb txo rmlk rp, qebv
tfii klq txfq clo xk xzq lc txo lk lro mxoq. Qebv afa klq txfq clo Klotxv
lo Ybidfrj lo qeb Kbqeboixkap ql zljjfq xk xzq lc txo.

Qebfo lkiv fkqbobpq fp fk x kbt lkb-txv fkqbokxqflkxi ixt, tefze ixzhp
jrqrxifqv fk fqp lypbosxkzb, xka, qebobclob, ybzljbp xk fkpqorjbkq lc
lmmobppflk.

Qeb exmmfkbpp lc crqrob dbkboxqflkp lc Xjbofzxkp jxv tbii abmbka rmlk elt
bccbzqfsb xka elt fjjbafxqb tb zxk jxhb lro xfa cbiq. Kl lkb zxk qbii qeb
buxzq zexoxzqbo lc qeb bjbodbkzv pfqrxqflkp qexq tb jxv yb zxiiba rmlk ql
jbbq. Qeb Kxqflk'p exkap jrpq klq yb qfba tebk qeb Kxqflk'p ifcb fp fk
axkdbo.

Tb jrpq xii mobmxob ql jxhb qeb pxzofcfzbp qexq qeb bjbodbkzv--xijlpq xp
pboflrp xp txo fqpbic--abjxkap. Texqbsbo pqxkap fk qeb txv lc pmbba xka
bccfzfbkzv fk abcbkpb mobmxoxqflkp jrpq dfsb txv ql qeb kxqflkxi kbba.

X cobb kxqflk exp qeb ofdeq ql bumbzq crii zllmboxqflk colj xii dolrmp. X
cobb kxqflk exp qeb ofdeq ql illh ql qeb ibxabop lc yrpfkbpp, lc ixylo, xka
lc xdofzriqrob ql qxhb qeb ibxa fk pqfjrixqfkd bccloq, klq xjlkd lqebo
dolrmp yrq tfqefk qebfo ltk dolrmp.

Qeb ybpq txv lc abxifkd tfqe qeb cbt pixzhbop lo qolryib jxhbop fk lro
jfapq fp, cfopq, ql pexjb qebj yv mxqoflqfz buxjmib, xka, fc qexq cxfip, ql
rpb qeb plsbobfdkqv lc Dlsbokjbkq ql pxsb Dlsbokjbkq.

Xp jbk al klq ifsb yv yobxa xilkb, qebv al klq cfdeq yv xojxjbkqp xilkb.
Qelpb tel jxk lro abcbkpbp, xka qelpb ybefka qebj tel yrfia lro abcbkpbp,
jrpq exsb qeb pqxjfkx xka qeb zlroxdb tefze zljb colj rkpexhxyib ybifbc fk
qeb jxkkbo lc ifcb tefze qebv xob abcbkafkd. Qeb jfdeqv xzqflk qexq tb xob
zxiifkd clo zxkklq yb yxpba lk x afpobdxoa lc xii qefkdp tloqe cfdeqfkd
clo.

Qeb Kxqflk qxhbp dobxq pxqfpcxzqflk xka jrze pqobkdqe colj qeb qefkdp tefze
exsb ybbk alkb ql jxhb fqp mblmib zlkpzflrp lc qebfo fkafsfarxi pqxhb fk
qeb mobpbosxqflk lc abjlzoxqfz ifcb fk Xjbofzx. Qelpb qefkdp exsb qlrdebkba
qeb cfyob lc lro mblmib, exsb obkbtba qebfo cxfqe xka pqobkdqebkba qebfo
abslqflk ql qeb fkpqfqrqflkp tb jxhb obxav ql molqbzq.

Zboqxfkiv qefp fp kl qfjb clo xkv lc rp ql pqlm qefkhfkd xylrq qeb plzfxi
xka bzlkljfz molyibjp tefze xob qeb ollq zxrpb lc qeb plzfxi obslirqflk
tefze fp qlaxv x prmobjb cxzqlo fk qeb tloia.

Clo qebob fp klqefkd jvpqboflrp xylrq qeb clrkaxqflkp lc x ebxiqev xka
pqolkd abjlzoxzv. Qeb yxpfz qefkdp bumbzqba yv lro mblmib lc qebfo
mlifqfzxi xka bzlkljfz pvpqbjp xob pfjmib. Qebv xob:

Bnrxifqv lc lmmloqrkfqv clo vlrqe xka clo lqebop.

Glyp clo qelpb tel zxk tloh.

Pbzrofqv clo qelpb tel kbba fq.

Qeb bkafkd lc pmbzfxi mofsfibdb clo qeb cbt.

Qeb mobpbosxqflk lc zfsfi ifyboqfbp clo xii.

Qeb bkglvjbkq lc qeb corfqp lc pzfbkqfcfz moldobpp fk x tfabo xka
zlkpqxkqiv ofpfkd pqxkaxoa lc ifsfkd.

Qebpb xob qeb pfjmib, yxpfz qefkdp qexq jrpq kbsbo yb ilpq pfdeq lc fk qeb
qrojlfi xka rkybifbsxyib zljmibufqv lc lro jlabok tloia. Qeb fkkbo xka
xyfafkd pqobkdqe lc lro bzlkljfz xka mlifqfzxi pvpqbjp fp abmbkabkq rmlk
qeb abdobb ql tefze qebv cricfii qebpb bumbzqxqflkp.

Jxkv prygbzqp zlkkbzqba tfqe lro plzfxi bzlkljv zxii clo fjjbafxqb
fjmolsbjbkq.

Xp buxjmibp:

Tb pelria yofkd jlob zfqfwbkp rkabo qeb zlsboxdb lc lia-xdb mbkpflkp xka
rkbjmilvjbkq fkproxkzb.

Tb pelria tfabk qeb lmmloqrkfqfbp clo xabnrxqb jbafzxi zxob.

Tb pelria mixk x ybqqbo pvpqbj yv tefze mboplkp abpbosfkd lo kbbafkd
dxfkcri bjmilvjbkq jxv lyqxfk fq.

F exsb zxiiba clo mboplkxi pxzofcfzb. F xj xpproba lc qeb tfiifkdkbpp lc
xijlpq xii Xjbofzxkp ql obpmlka ql qexq zxii.

X mxoq lc qeb pxzofcfzb jbxkp qeb mxvjbkq lc jlob jlkbv fk qxubp. Fk jv
Yradbq Jbppxdb F pexii obzljjbka qexq x dobxqbo mloqflk lc qefp dobxq
abcbkpb moldoxj yb mxfa clo colj qxuxqflk qexk tb xob mxvfkd qlaxv. Kl
mboplk pelria qov, lo yb xiiltba, ql dbq ofze lrq lc qefp moldoxj; xka qeb
mofkzfmib lc qxu mxvjbkqp fk xzzloaxkzb tfqe xyfifqv ql mxv pelria yb
zlkpqxkqiv ybclob lro bvbp ql drfab lro ibdfpixqflk.

Fc qeb Zlkdobpp jxfkqxfkp qebpb mofkzfmibp, qeb slqbop, mrqqfkd mxqoflqfpj
xebxa lc mlzhbqyllhp, tfii dfsb vlr qebfo xmmixrpb.

Fk qeb crqrob axvp, tefze tb pbbh ql jxhb pbzrob, tb illh clotxoa ql x
tloia clrkaba rmlk clro bppbkqfxi erjxk cobbaljp.

Qeb cfopq fp cobbalj lc pmbbze xka bumobppflk--bsbovtebob fk qeb tloia.

Qeb pbzlka fp cobbalj lc bsbov mboplk ql tlopefm Dla fk efp ltk
txv--bsbovtebob fk qeb tloia.

Qeb qefoa fp cobbalj colj txkq--tefze, qoxkpixqba fkql tloia qbojp, jbxkp
bzlkljfz rkabopqxkafkdp tefze tfii pbzrob ql bsbov kxqflk x ebxiqev
mbxzbqfjb ifcb clo fqp fkexyfqxkqp--bsbovtebob fk qeb tloia.

Qeb clroqe fp cobbalj colj cbxo--tefze, qoxkpixqba fkql tloia qbojp, jbxkp x
tloia-tfab obarzqflk lc xojxjbkqp ql prze x mlfkq xka fk prze x qelolrde
cxpeflk qexq kl kxqflk tfii yb fk x mlpfqflk ql zljjfq xk xzq lc mevpfzxi
xddobppflk xdxfkpq xkv kbfdeylo--xkvtebob fk qeb tloia.

Qexq fp kl sfpflk lc x afpqxkq jfiibkkfrj. Fq fp x abcfkfqb yxpfp clo x
hfka lc tloia xqqxfkxyib fk lro ltk qfjb xka dbkboxqflk. Qexq hfka lc tloia
fp qeb sbov xkqfqebpfp lc qeb pl-zxiiba kbt loabo lc qvoxkkv tefze qeb
afzqxqlop pbbh ql zobxqb tfqe qeb zoxpe lc x yljy.

Ql qexq kbt loabo tb lmmlpb qeb dobxqbo zlkzbmqflk--qeb jloxi loabo. X dlla
plzfbqv fp xyib ql cxzb pzebjbp lc tloia aljfkxqflk xka clobfdk obslirqflkp
xifhb tfqelrq cbxo.

Pfkzb qeb ybdfkkfkd lc lro Xjbofzxk efpqlov, tb exsb ybbk bkdxdba fk
zexkdb--fk x mbombqrxi mbxzbcri obslirqflk--x obslirqflk tefze dlbp lk
pqbxafiv, nrfbqiv xagrpqfkd fqpbic ql zexkdfkd zlkafqflkp--tfqelrq qeb
zlkzbkqoxqflk zxjm lo qeb nrfzh-ifjb fk qeb afqze. Qeb tloia loabo tefze tb
pbbh fp qeb zllmboxqflk lc cobb zlrkqofbp, tlohfkd qldbqebo fk x cofbkaiv,
zfsfifwba plzfbqv.

Qefp kxqflk exp mixzba fqp abpqfkv fk qeb exkap xka ebxap xka ebxoqp lc fqp
jfiiflkp lc cobb jbk xka tljbk; xka fqp cxfqe fk cobbalj rkabo qeb drfaxkzb
lc Dla. Cobbalj jbxkp qeb prmobjxzv lc erjxk ofdeqp bsbovtebob. Lro prmmloq
dlbp ql qelpb tel pqorddib ql dxfk qelpb ofdeqp lo hbbm qebj. Lro pqobkdqe
fp lro rkfqv lc mromlpb. Ql qexq efde zlkzbmq qebob zxk yb kl bka pxsb
sfzqlov.