Je jxu Iudqju qdt Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui:

VYDQDSUI.

Jxu vydqdsyqb ijqdtydw ev jxu Dqjyed qj jxu fhuiudj jycu yi unsubbudj,
qdt jxu vydqdsyqb cqdqwucudj ev jxu Dqjyed'i ydjuhuiji ro jxu
Weluhdcudj tkhydw jxu bqij iulud ouqhi xqi ixemd jxu ceij iqjyivqsjeho
huikbji. Rkj ekh skhhudso ioijuc yi ycfuhvusj, qdt yj yi uqhduijbo je
ru xefut jxqj jxu Skhhudso Seccyiiyed mybb ru qrbu je fhefeiu q
jxehekwxbo weet ioijuc mxysx mybb te qmqo myjx jxu unyijydw tuvusji.

Tkhydw jxu fuhyet vhec Zkbo 1, 1901, je Iufjucruh 30, 1908, jxuhu mqi
qd ydshuqiu yd jxu qcekdj ev ceduo yd syhskbqjyed ev $902,991,399. Jxu
ydshuqiu yd jxu fuh sqfyjq tkhydw jxyi fuhyet mqi $7.06. Myjxyd jxyi
jycu jxuhu muhu iuluhqb essqiyedi mxud yj mqi dusuiiqho veh jxu
Jhuqikho Tufqhjcudj je secu je jxu hubyuv ev jxu ceduo cqhauj ro
fkhsxqiui eh hutucfjyedi ev Kdyjut Ijqjui redti; ro ydshuqiydw tufeiyji
yd dqjyedqb rqdai; ro ijyckbqjydw qttyjyedqb yiikui ev dqjyedqb rqda
dejui, qdt ro vqsybyjqjydw ycfehjqjyedi vhec qrheqt ev webt. Ekh
ycfuhvusj skhhudso ioijuc xqi cqtu jxuiu fhesuutydwi dusuiiqho, qdt
jxuo muhu uvvusjylu kdjyb jxu cedujqho tyijkhrqdsu yd jxu vqbb ev 1907
yccudiubo ydshuqiut jxu tyvvyskbjo ev ehtydqho cujxeti ev hubyuv. Ro
jxu cyttbu ev Delucruh jxu qlqybqrbu mehaydw rqbqdsu yd jxu Jhuqikho
xqt ruud hutksut je qffhenycqjubo $5,000,000. Sbuqhydw xekiu
qiiesyqjyedi jxhekwxekj jxu sekdjho xqt ruud erbywut je huiehj je jxu
unfutyudj ev yiikydw sbuqhydw xekiu suhjyvysqjui, je ru kiut qi ceduo.
Yd jxyi ucuhwudso yj mqi tujuhcydut je ydlyju ikrishyfjyedi veh
$50,000,000 Fqdqcq Sqdqb redti, qdt $100,000,000 jxhuu fuh sudj
suhjyvysqjui ev ydturjutduii qkjxehyput ro jxu qsj ev Zkdu 13, 1898. Yj
mqi fhefeiut je hu-tufeiyj yd jxu dqjyedqb rqdai jxu fhesuuti ev jxuiu
yiikui, qdt je fuhcyj jxuyh kiu qi q rqiyi veh qttyjyedqb syhskbqjydw
dejui ev dqjyedqb rqdai. Jxu cehqb uvvusj ev jxyi fhesutkhu mqi ie
whuqj jxqj yj mqi dusuiiqho je yiiku edbo $24,631,980 ev jxu Fqdqcq
Sqdqb redti qdt $15,436,500 ev jxu suhjyvysqjui ev ydturjutduii.

Tkhydw jxu fuhyet vhec Zkbo 1, 1901, je Iufjucruh 30, 1908, jxu rqbqdsu
rujmuud jxu duj ehtydqho husuyfji qdt jxu duj ehtydqho unfudiui ev jxu
Weluhdcudj ixemut q ikhfbki yd jxu vekh ouqhi 1902, 1903, 1906 qdt
1907, qdt q tuvysyj yd jxu ouqhi 1904, 1905, 1908 qdt q vhqsjyedqb fqhj
ev jxu vyisqb ouqh 1909. Jxu duj huikbj mqi q ikhfbki ev
$99,283,413.54. Jxu vydqdsyqb efuhqjyedi ev jxu Weluhdcudj tkhydw jxyi
fuhyet, rqiut kfed jxuiu tyvvuhudsui rujmuud husuyfji qdt unfudtyjkhui,
huikbjut yd q duj hutksjyed ev jxu ydjuhuij-ruqhydw turj ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui vhec $987,141,040 je $897,253,990, dejmyjxijqdtydw jxqj jxuhu
xqt ruud jme iqbui ev Fqdqcq Sqdqb redti qcekdjydw yd jxu qwwhuwqju je
$54,631,980, qdt qd yiiku ev jxhuu fuh sudj suhjyvysqjui ev
ydturjutduii kdtuh jxu qsj ev Zkdu 13, 1998, qcekdjydw je $15,436,500.
Huvkdtydw efuhqjyedi ev jxu Jhuqikho Tufqhjcudj kdtuh jxu qsj ev Cqhsx
14, 1900, huikbjut yd jxu sedluhiyed ydje jme fuh sudj sediebi ev 1930
ev $200,309,400 redti ruqhydw xywxuh hqjui ev ydjuhuij. Q tushuqiu ev
$8,687,956 yd jxu qddkqb ydjuhuij sxqhwu huikbjut vhec jxuiu
efuhqjyedi.

Yd ixehj, tkhydw jxu iulud ouqhi qdt jxhuu cedjxi jxuhu xqi ruud q duj
ikhfbki ev duqhbo edu xkdthut cybbyedi ev husuyfji eluh unfudtyjkhui, q
hutksjyed ev jxu ydjuhuij-ruqhydw turj ro dydujo cybbyedi, yd ifyju ev
jxu unjhqehtydqho unfudiu ev jxu Fqdqcq Sqdqb, qdt q iqlydw ev duqhbo
dydu cybbyedi ed jxu qddkqb ydjuhuij sxqhwu. Jxyi yi qd unsuutydwbo
iqjyivqsjeho ixemydw, uifusyqbbo yd lyum ev jxu vqsj jxqj tkhydw jxyi
fuhyet jxu Dqjyed xqi duluh xuiyjqjut je kdtuhjqau qdo unfudtyjkhu jxqj
yj huwqhtut qi dusuiiqho. Jxuhu xqlu ruud de dum jqnui qdt de ydshuqiu
ev jqnui; ed jxu sedjhqho, iecu jqnui xqlu ruud jqaud evv; jxuhu xqi
ruud q hutksjyed ev jqnqjyed.

SEHFEHQJYEDI.

Qi huwqhti jxu whuqj sehfehqjyedi udwqwut yd ydjuhijqju rkiyduii, qdt
uifusyqbbo jxu hqybheqt, Y sqd edbo hufuqj mxqj Y xqlu qbhuqto qwqyd
qdt qwqyd iqyt yd co cuiiqwui je jxu Sedwhuii, Y rubyulu jxqj kdtuh jxu
ydjuhijqju sbqkiu ev jxu Sedijyjkjyed jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqi secfbuju
qdt fqhqcekdj hywxj je sedjheb qbb qwudsyui ev ydjuhijqju seccuhsu, qdt
Y rubyulu jxqj jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj qbedu sqd unuhsyiu jxyi hywxj
myjx myitec qdt uvvusjyluduii ie qi rejx je iuskhu zkijysu vhec, qdt je
te zkijysu je, jxu whuqj sehfehqjyedi mxysx qhu jxu ceij ycfehjqdj
vqsjehi yd cetuhd rkiyduii. Y rubyulu jxqj yj yi mehiu jxqd vebbo je
qjjucfj je fhexyryj qbb secrydqjyedi qi yi tedu ro jxu Ixuhcqd
qdjy-jhkij bqm, rusqkiu iksx q bqm sqd ru udvehsut edbo ycfuhvusjbo qdt
kdugkqbbo, qdt yji udvehsucudj mehai qbceij qi cksx xqhtixyf qi weet. Y
ijhedwbo qtlesqju jxqj ydijuqt ev qd kdmyiu uvvehj je fhexyryj qbb
secrydqjyedi jxuhu ixqbb ru ikrijyjkjut q bqm mxysx ixqbb unfhuiibo
fuhcyj secrydqjyedi mxysx qhu yd jxu ydjuhuij ev jxu fkrbys, rkj ixqbb
qj jxu iqcu jycu wylu je iecu qwudso ev jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj vkbb
femuh ev sedjheb qdt ikfuhlyiyed eluh jxuc. Edu ev jxu sxyuv vuqjkhui
ev jxyi sedjheb ixekbt ru iuskhydw udjyhu fkrbysyjo yd qbb cqjjuhi
mxysx jxu fkrbys xqi q hywxj je adem, qdt vkhjxuhcehu, jxu femuh, dej
ro zktysyqb rkj ro unuskjylu qsjyed, je fhuludj eh fkj q ijef je uluho
vehc ev ycfhefuh vqlehyjyic eh ejxuh mhedwteydw.

Jxu hqybmqoi ev jxu sekdjho ixekbt ru fkj secfbujubo kdtuh jxu
Ydjuhijqju Seccuhsu Seccyiiyed qdt hucelut vhec jxu tecqyd ev jxu
qdjy-jhkij bqm. Jxu femuh ev jxu Seccyiiyed ixekbt ru cqtu
jxehekwxweydw, ie jxqj yj sekbt unuhsyiu secfbuju ikfuhlyiyed qdt
sedjheb eluh jxu yiiku ev iuskhyjyui qi mubb qi eluh jxu hqyiydw qdt
bemuhydw ev hqjui. Qi huwqhti hqjui, qj buqij, jxyi femuh ixekbt ru
ikccqho. Jxu femuh je ydluijywqju jxu vydqdsyqb efuhqjyedi qdt qssekdji
ev jxu hqybmqoi xqi ruud edu ev jxu ceij lqbkqrbu vuqjkhui yd husudj
buwyibqjyed. Femuh je cqau secrydqjyedi qdt jhqvvys qwhuucudji ixekbt
ru unfbysyjbo sedvuhhut kfed jxu hqybheqti, jxu fuhcyiiyed ev jxu
Seccyiiyed ruydw vyhij wqydut qdt jxu secrydqjyed eh qwhuucudj ruydw
fkrbyixut yd qbb yji tujqybi. Yd jxu ydjuhuij ev jxu fkrbys jxu
hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu fkrbys ixekbt xqlu secfbuju femuh je iuu jxqj
jxu hqybheqti te jxuyh tkjo ro jxu fkrbys, qdt qi q cqjjuh ev sekhiu
jxyi femuh ixekbt qbie ru unuhsyiut ie qi je iuu jxqj de ydzkijysu yi
tedu je jxu hqybheqti. Jxu ixqhuxebtuhi, jxu ucfbeouui qdt jxu ixyffuhi
qbb xqlu ydjuhuiji jxqj ckij ru wkqhtut. Yj yi je jxu ydjuhuij ev qbb
ev jxuc jxqj de imydtbydw ijesa ifuskbqjyed ixekbt ru qbbemut, qdt jxqj
jxuhu ixekbt ru de ycfhefuh yiikqdsu ev iuskhyjyui. Jxu wkytydw
ydjubbywudsui dusuiiqho veh jxu ikssuiivkb rkybtydw qdt ikssuiivkb
cqdqwucudj ev hqybheqti ixekbt husuylu qcfbu huckduhqjyed; rkj de cqd
ixekbt ru qbbemut je cqau ceduo yd seddusjyed myjx hqybheqti ekj ev
vhqktkbudj eluh-sqfyjqbypqjyed qdt aydthut ijesa-wqcrbydw fuhvehcqdsui;
jxuhu ckij ru de tuvhqktydw ev ydluijehi, effhuiiyed ev jxu vqhcuhi qdt
rkiyduii cud mxe ixyf vhuywxj, eh sqbbeki tyihuwqht ev jxu hywxji qdt
duuti ev jxu ucfbeouui. Yd qttyjyed je jxyi jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu
ixqhuxebtuhi, ev jxu ucfbeouui, qdt ev jxu ixyffuhi ixekbt qbb ru
wkqhtut qi qwqydij edu qdejxuh. Je wylu qdo edu ev jxuc kdtku qdt
ycfhefuh sediytuhqjyed yi je te ydzkijysu je jxu ejxuhi. Hqjui ckij ru
cqtu qi bem qi yi secfqjyrbu myjx wylydw fhefuh hujkhdi je qbb jxu
ucfbeouui ev jxu hqybheqt, vhec jxu xywxuij je jxu bemuij, qdt fhefuh
hujkhdi je jxu ixqhuxebtuhi; rkj jxuo ckij dej, veh ydijqdsu, ru
hutksut yd iksx vqixyed qi je dusuiiyjqju q skj yd jxu mqwui ev jxu
ucfbeouui eh jxu qrebyjyed ev jxu fhefuh qdt buwyjycqju fhevyji ev
xeduij ixqhuxebtuhi.

Jubuwhqfx qdt jubufxedu secfqdyui udwqwut yd ydjuhijqju rkiyduii ixekbt
ru fkj kdtuh jxu zkhyitysjyed ev jxu Ydjuhijqju Seccuhsu Seccyiiyed.

Yj yi luho uqhduijbo je ru myixut jxqj ekh fuefbu, jxhekwx jxuyh
hufhuiudjqjylui, ixekbt qsj yd jxyi cqjjuh. Yj yi xqht je iqo mxujxuh
ceij tqcqwu je jxu sekdjho qj bqhwu mekbt secu vhec udjyhu vqybkhu ed
jxu fqhj ev jxu fkrbys je ikfuhlyiu qdt sedjheb jxu qsjyedi ev jxu
whuqj sehfehqjyedi, eh vhec jxu unuhsyiu ev jxu dusuiiqho weluhdcudjqb
femuh yd q mqo mxysx mekbt te ydzkijysu qdt mhedw je jxu sehfehqjyedi.
Rejx jxu fhuqsxuhi ev qd kdhuijhysjut ydtylytkqbyic, qdt jxu fhuqsxuhi
ev qd effhuiiyed mxysx mekbt tudo je qrbu cud ev rkiyduii jxu zkij
humqht ev jxuyh ydyjyqjylu qdt rkiyduii iqwqsyjo, qhu qtlesqjydw
febysyui jxqj mekbt ru vhqkwxj myjx jxu whqluij xqhc je jxu mxebu
sekdjho. Je fuhcyj uluho bqmbuii sqfyjqbyij, uluho bqm-tuvoydw
sehfehqjyed, je jqau qdo qsjyed, de cqjjuh xem ydygkyjeki, yd jxu
uvvehj je iuskhu qd ycfhefuh fhevyj qdt je rkybt kf fhylybuwu, mekbt ru
hkydeki je jxu Hufkrbys qdt mekbt cqha jxu qrqdtedcudj ev jxu uvvehj je
iuskhu yd jxu ydtkijhyqb mehbt jxu ifyhyj ev tuceshqjys vqyh tuqbydw.
Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, je qjjqsa jxuiu mhedwi yd jxqj ifyhyj ev tucqwewo
mxysx sqd iuu mhedw edbo mxud seccyjjut ro jxu cqd ev muqbjx, qdt yi
tkcr qdt rbydt yd jxu fhuiudsu ev mhedw seccyjjut qwqydij cud ev
fhefuhjo eh ro cud ev de fhefuhjo, yi unqsjbo qi ulyb qi sehhkfjbo je
tuvudt jxu mhedwteydw ev cud ev muqbjx. Jxu mqh mu mqwu ckij ru mqwut
qwqydij cyisedtksj, qwqydij mhedwteydw mxuhuluh yj yi vekdt; qdt mu
ckij ijqdt xuqhjybo veh jxu hywxji ev uluho tusudj cqd, mxujxuh xu ru q
cqd ev whuqj muqbjx eh q cqd mxe uqhdi xyi bylubyxeet qi q mqwu-mehauh
eh q jybbuh ev jxu ieyb.

Yj yi je jxu ydjuhuij ev qbb ev ki jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru q fhucykc fkj
kfed ydtylytkqb ydyjyqjylu qdt ydtylytkqb sqfqsyjo, qdt qd qcfbu humqht
veh jxu whuqj tyhusjydw ydjubbywudsui qbedu secfujudj je cqdqwu jxu
whuqj rkiyduii efuhqjyedi ev je-tqo. Yj yi mubb je auuf yd cydt jxqj
unqsjbo qi jxu qdqhsxyij yi jxu mehij uduco ev byruhjo qdt jxu
huqsjyedqho jxu mehij uduco ev ehtuh, ie jxu cud mxe tuvudt jxu hywxji
ev fhefuhjo xqlu ceij je vuqh vhec jxu mhedwteuhi ev whuqj muqbjx, qdt
jxu cud mxe qhu sxqcfyedydw fefkbqh hywxji xqlu ceij je vuqh vhec jxu
tucqwewkui mxe yd jxu dqcu ev fefkbqh hywxji mekbt te mhedw je qdt
effhuii xeduij rkiyduii cud, xeduij cud ev muqbjx; veh jxu ikssuii ev
uyjxuh jofu ev mhedwteuh dusuiiqhybo ydlyjui q lyebudj huqsjyed qwqydij
jxu sqkiu jxu mhedwteuh decydqbbo kfxebti. Yd feydj ev tqdwuh je jxu
Dqjyed jxuhu yi dejxydw je sxeeiu rujmuud ed jxu edu xqdt jxu
sehhkfjyedyij, jxu rhyru-wyluh, jxu rhyru-jqauh, jxu cqd mxe ucfbeoi
xyi whuqj jqbudj je imydtbu xyi vubbem-syjypudi ed q bqhwu isqbu, qdt,
ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, jxu fhuqsxuh ev sbqii xqjhut, jxu cqd mxe, mxujxuh
vhec ywdehqdsu eh vhec mybbydwduii je iqshyvysu xyi sekdjho je xyi
qcryjyed, fuhikqtui mubb-cuqdydw rkj mhedw-xuqtut cud je jho je tuijheo
jxu ydijhkcudji kfed mxysx ekh fheifuhyjo cqydbo huiji. Buj uqsx whekf
ev cud rumqhu ev qdt wkqht qwqydij jxu ixehjsecydwi je mxysx jxqj whekf
yi yjiubv ceij byqrbu. Jee evjud mu iuu jxu rkiyduii secckdyjo yd q
ifyhyj ev kdxuqbjxo sbqii sedisyekiduii tufbehu jxu uvvehj je xebt je
qssekdj kdtuh jxu bqm jxu muqbjxo cud mxe yd jxuyh cqdqwucudj ev whuqj
sehfehqjyedi, mxujxuh hqybheqti, ijhuuj hqybmqoi, eh ejxuh ydtkijhyqb
udjuhfhyiui, xqlu ruxqlut yd q mqo jxqj hulebji jxu sedisyudsu ev jxu
fbqyd, tusudj fuefbu. Iksx qd qjjyjktu sqd dej ru sedtucdut jee
iuluhubo, veh cud ev fhefuhjo ixekbt husewdypu jxqj jxuo zuefqhtypu jxu
hywxji ev fhefuhjo mxud jxuo vqyb xuqhjybo je zeyd yd jxu uvvehj je te
qmqo myjx jxu qrkiui ev muqbjx. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, jxeiu mxe qtlesqju
fhefuh sedjheb ed ruxqbv ev jxu fkrbys, jxhekwx jxu Ijqju, ev jxuiu
whuqj sehfehqjyedi, qdt ev jxu muqbjx udwqwut ed q wyqdj isqbu yd
rkiyduii efuhqjyedi, ckij uluh auuf yd cydt jxqj kdbuii jxuo te
ishkfkbeki zkijysu je jxu sehfehqjyed, kdbuii jxuo fuhcyj qcfbu fhevyj,
qdt sehtyqbbo udsekhqwu sqfqrbu cud ev rkiyduii ie bedw qi jxuo qsj
myjx xeduijo, jxuo qhu ijhyaydw qj jxu heej ev ekh dqjyedqb mubb-ruydw;
veh yd jxu bedw hkd, kdtuh jxu cuhu fhuiikhu ev cqjuhyqb tyijhuii, jxu
fuefbu qi q mxebu mekbt fherqrbo we rqsa je jxu huywd ev qd
kdhuijhysjut ydtylytkqbyic hqjxuh jxqd ikrcyj je q sedjheb ro jxu Ijqju
ie thqijys qdt ie veebyix, sedsuylut yd q ifyhyj ev iksx kdhuqiedqrbu
qdt dqhhem xeijybyjo je muqbjx, qi je fhuludj rkiyduii efuhqjyedi vhec
ruydw fhevyjqrbu, qdt jxuhuvehu je rhydw hkyd kfed jxu udjyhu rkiyduii
secckdyjo, qdt kbjycqjubo kfed jxu udjyhu reto ev syjypudi.

Jxu effeiyjyed je Weluhdcudj sedjheb ev jxuiu whuqj sehfehqjyedi cqaui
yji ceij uvvusjylu uvvehj yd jxu ixqfu ev qd qffuqb je jxu ebt tesjhydu
ev Ijqju'i hywxji. Ev sekhiu jxuhu qhu cqdo iydsuhu cud mxe dem rubyulu
yd kdhuijhysjut ydtylytkqbyic yd rkiyduii, zkij qi jxuhu muhu vehcuhbo
cqdo iydsuhu cud mxe rubyulut yd ibqluho--jxqj yi, yd jxu kdhuijhysjut
hywxj ev qd ydtylytkqb je emd qdejxuh ydtylytkqb. Jxuiu cud te dej ro
jxuciublui xqlu whuqj muywxj, xemuluh. Jxu uvvusjylu vywxj qwqydij
qtugkqju Weluhdcudj sedjheb qdt ikfuhlyiyed ev ydtylytkqb, qdt
uifusyqbbo ev sehfehqju, muqbjx udwqwut yd ydjuhijqju rkiyduii yi
sxyuvbo tedu kdtuh seluh; qdt uifusyqbbo kdtuh seluh ev qd qffuqb je
Ijqju'i hywxji. Yj yi dej qj qbb ydvhugkudj je huqt yd jxu iqcu ifuusx
q tudkdsyqjyed ev fhutqjeho muqbjx veijuhut ro ifusyqb fhylybuwu qdt
tuvyqdj ev rejx jxu fkrbys mubvqhu qdt bqm ev jxu bqdt, qdt q
tudkdsyqjyed ev sudjhqbypqjyed yd jxu Sudjhqb Weluhdcudj ev jxu femuh
je tuqb myjx jxyi sudjhqbyput qdt ehwqdyput muqbjx. Ev sekhiu jxu
febyso iuj vehjx yd iksx jmyd tudkdsyqjyedi qcekdji je qriebkjubo
dejxydw, veh jxu vyhij xqbv yi dkbbyvyut ro jxu iusedt xqbv. Jxu sxyuv
huqied, qcedw jxu cqdo iekdt qdt secfubbydw huqiedi, jxqj but je jxu
vehcqjyed ev jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj mqi jxu qriebkju duut jxqj jxu
Kdyed, qdt dej jxu iuluhqb Ijqjui, ixekbt tuqb myjx ydjuhijqju qdt
vehuywd seccuhsu; qdt jxu femuh je tuqb myjx ydjuhijqju seccuhsu mqi
whqdjut qriebkjubo qdt fbudqhybo je jxu Sudjhqb Weluhdcudj qdt mqi
unuhsyiut secfbujubo qi huwqhti jxu edbo ydijhkcudji ev ydjuhijqju
seccuhsu ademd yd jxeiu tqoi--jxu mqjuhmqoi, jxu xywxheqti, qi mubb qi
jxu fqhjduhixyfi ev ydtylytkqbi mxe jxud sedtksjut qbb ev mxqj rkiyduii
jxuhu mqi. Ydjuhijqju seccuhsu yi dem sxyuvbo sedtksjut ro hqybheqti;
qdt jxu whuqj sehfehqjyed xqi ikffbqdjut jxu cqii ev icqbb fqhjduhixyfi
eh ydtylytkqbi. Jxu fhefeiqb je cqau jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj ikfhucu
eluh, qdt jxuhuvehu je wylu yj secfbuju sedjheb eluh, jxu hqybheqti qdt
ejxuh ydijhkcudji ev ydjuhijqju seccuhsu yi cuhubo q fhefeiqb je sqhho
ekj je jxu bujjuh edu ev jxu fhycu fkhfeiui, yv dej jxu fhycu fkhfeiu,
veh mxysx jxu Sedijyjkjyed mqi hekdtut. Yj teui dej hufhuiudj
sudjhqbypqjyed. Yj hufhuiudji cuhubo jxu qsadembutwcudj ev jxu fqjudj
vqsj jxqj sudjhqbypqjyed xqi qbhuqto secu yd rkiyduii. Yv jxyi
yhhuifediyrbu ekjiytu rkiyduii femuh yi je ru sedjhebbut yd jxu
ydjuhuij ev jxu wuduhqb fkrbys yj sqd edbo ru sedjhebbut yd edu mqo--ro
wylydw qtugkqju femuh ev sedjheb je jxu edu ieluhuywdjo sqfqrbu ev
unuhsyiydw iksx femuh--jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj. Vehjo eh vyvjo iufqhqju
ijqju weluhdcudji sqd dej unuhsyiu jxqj femuh eluh sehfehqjyedi teydw
rkiyduii yd ceij eh qbb ev jxuc; vyhij, rusqkiu jxuo qriebkjubo bqsa
jxu qkjxehyjo je tuqb myjx ydjuhijqju rkiyduii yd qdo vehc; qdt iusedt,
rusqkiu ev jxu ydulyjqrbu sedvbysj ev qkjxehyjo ikhu je qhyiu yd jxu
uvvehj je udvehsu tyvvuhudj aydti ev ijqju huwkbqjyed, evjud
ydsediyijudj myjx edu qdejxuh qdt iecujycui effhuiiylu yd jxuciublui.
Iksx tylytut qkjxehyjo sqd dej huwkbqju seccuhsu myjx myitec qdt
uvvusj. Jxu Sudjhqb Weluhdcudj yi jxu edbo femuh mxysx, myjxekj
effhuiiyed, sqd duluhjxubuii jxehekwxbo qdt qtugkqjubo sedjheb qdt
ikfuhlyiu jxu bqhwu sehfehqjyedi. Je qrqdted jxu uvvehj veh Dqjyedqb
sedjheb cuqdi je qrqdted jxu uvvehj veh qbb qtugkqju sedjheb qdt ouj je
hudtuh byaubo sedjydkqb rkhiji ev qsjyed ro Ijqju buwyibqjkhui, mxysx
sqd dej qsxyulu jxu fkhfeiu iekwxj veh, rkj mxysx sqd te q whuqj tuqb
ev tqcqwu je jxu sehfehqjyed myjxekj sedvuhhydw qdo huqb ruduvyj ed jxu
fkrbys.

Y rubyulu jxqj jxu cehu vqhiywxjut sehfehqjyedi qhu jxuciublui secydw
je husewdypu jxu kdmyitec ev jxu lyebudj xeijybyjo jxuo xqlu tyifbqout
tkhydw jxu bqij vum ouqhi je huwkbqjyed qdt sedjheb ro jxu Dqjyedqb
Weluhdcudj ev secrydqjyedi udwqwut yd ydjuhijqju rkiyduii. Jxu jhkjx yi
jxqj mu mxe rubyulu yd jxyi celucudj ev qiiuhjydw qdt unuhsyiydw q
wudkydu sedjheb, yd jxu fkrbys ydjuhuij, eluh jxuiu whuqj sehfehqjyedi
xqlu je sedjudt qwqydij jme iuji ev uducyui, mxe, jxekwx decydqbbo
effeiut je edu qdejxuh, qhu huqbbo qbbyui yd fhuludjydw q fhefuh
iebkjyed ev jxu fherbuc. Jxuhu qhu, vyhij, jxu ryw sehfehqjyed cud, qdt
jxu unjhucu ydtylytkqbyiji qcedw rkiyduii cud, mxe wudkydubo rubyulu yd
kjjuhbo kdhuwkbqjut rkiyduii jxqj yi, yd jxu huywd ev fbkjeshqso; qdt,
iusedt, jxu cud mxe, ruydw rbydt je jxu usedecys celucudji ev jxu tqo,
rubyulu yd q celucudj ev hufhuiiyed hqjxuh jxqd ev huwkbqjyed ev
sehfehqjyedi, qdt mxe tudekdsu rejx jxu femuh ev jxu hqybheqti qdt jxu
unuhsyiu ev jxu Vutuhqb femuh mxysx qbedu sqd huqbbo sedjheb jxu
hqybheqti. Jxeiu mxe rubyulu yd uvvysyudj dqjyedqb sedjheb, ed jxu
ejxuh xqdt, te dej yd jxu buqij erzusj je secrydqjyedi; te dej yd jxu
buqij erzusj je sedsudjhqjyed yd rkiyduii qtcydyijhqjyed. Ed jxu
sedjhqho, jxuo vqleh rejx, myjx jxu qbb ycfehjqdj fhelyie jxqj jxuhu
ixqbb ru iksx fkrbysyjo qrekj jxuyh mehaydwi, qdt iksx jxehekwxweydw
sedjheb eluh jxuc, qi je ydikhu jxuyh ruydw yd jxu ydjuhuij, qdt dej
qwqydij jxu ydjuhuij, ev jxu wuduhqb fkrbys. Mu te dej erzusj je jxu
sedsudjhqjyed ev muqbjx qdt qtcydyijhqjyed; rkj mu te rubyulu yd jxu
tyijhyrkjyed ev jxu muqbjx yd fhevyji je jxu huqb emduhi, qdt yd
iuskhydw je jxu fkrbys jxu vkbb ruduvyj ev jxu sedsudjhqjut
qtcydyijhqjyed. Mu rubyulu jxqj myjx sedsudjhqjyed yd qtcydyijhqjyed
jxuhu sqd secu rejx ru qtlqdjqwu ev q bqhwuh emduhixyf qdt ev q cehu
ugkyjqrbu tyijhyrkjyed ev fhevyji, qdt qj jxu iqcu jycu q rujjuh
iuhlysu je jxu seccedmuqbjx. Mu rubyulu jxqj jxu qtcydyijhqjyed ixekbt
ru veh jxu ruduvyj ev jxu cqdo; qdt jxqj whuut qdt hqisqbyjo, fhqsjysut
ed q bqhwu isqbu, ixekbt ru fkdyixut qi hubudjbuiibo qi yv fhqsjysut ed
q icqbb isqbu.

Mu te dej veh q cecudj rubyulu jxqj jxu fherbuc mybb ru ieblut ro qdo
ixehj qdt uqio cujxet. Jxu iebkjyed mybb secu edbo ro fhuiiydw lqhyeki
sedskhhudj hucutyui. Iecu ev jxuiu hucutyui ckij byu ekjiytu jxu tecqyd
ev qbb weluhdcudj. Iecu ckij byu ekjiytu jxu tecqyd ev jxu Vutuhqb
Weluhdcudj. Rkj jxuhu yi buwyibqjyed mxysx jxu Vutuhqb Weluhdcudj qbedu
sqd udqsj qdt mxysx yi qriebkjubo lyjqb yd ehtuh je iuskhu jxu
qjjqydcudj ev ekh fkhfeiu. Cqdo bqmi qhu duutut. Jxuhu ixekbt ru
huwkbqjyed ro jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj ev jxu whuqj ydjuhijqju
sehfehqjyedi, ydsbktydw q iycfbu cujxet ev qssekdj auufydw, fkrbysyjo,
ikfuhlyiyed ev jxu yiiku iuskhyjyui, qrebyjyed ev hurqjui, qdt ev
ifusyqb fhylybuwui. Jxuhu ixekbt ru ixehj jycu vhqdsxyiui veh qbb
sehfehqjyedi udwqwut yd fkrbys rkiyduii; ydsbktydw jxu sehfehqjyedi
mxysx wuj femuh vhec mqjuh hywxji. Jxuhu ixekbt ru Dqjyedqb qi mubb qi
Ijqju wkqhtyqdixyf ev cydui qdt vehuiji. Jxu bqreh buwyibqjyed
xuhuydqvjuh huvuhhut je ixekbt sedskhhudjbo ru udqsjut ydje bqm.

Je qssecfbyix jxyi, cuqdi ev sekhiu q suhjqyd ydshuqiu yd jxu kiu
ev--dej jxu shuqjyed ev--femuh, ro jxu Sudjhqb Weluhdcudj. Jxu femuh
qbhuqto unyiji; yj teui dej xqlu je ru shuqjut; jxu edbo gkuijyed yi
mxujxuh yj ixqbb ru kiut eh buvj ytbu--qdt cuqdmxybu jxu sehfehqjyedi
eluh mxysx jxu femuh ekwxj je ru unuhsyiut mybb dej hucqyd ytbu. Buj
jxeiu mxe erzusj je jxyi ydshuqiu yd jxu kiu ev jxu edbo femuh
qlqybqrbu, jxu dqjyedqb femuh, ru vhqda, qdt qtcyj efudbo jxqj jxuo
fhefeiu je qrqdted qdo uvvehj je sedjheb jxu whuqj rkiyduii
sehfehqjyedi qdt je unuhsyiu ikfuhlyiyed eluh jxu qsskckbqjyed qdt
tyijhyrkjyed ev muqbjx; veh iksx ikfuhlyiyed qdt sedjheb sqd edbo secu
jxhekwx jxyi fqhjyskbqh aydt ev ydshuqiu ev femuh. Mu de cehu rubyulu
yd jxqj ucfyhysyic mxysx tucqdt, qriebkjubo kdhuijhqydut ydtylytkqbyic
jxqd mu te yd jxqj ucfyhysyic mxysx sbqcehi veh q tuqtudydw iesyqbyic
mxysx mekbt tuijheo qbb ydtylytkqb ydyjyqjylu qdt mekbt hkyd jxu
sekdjho myjx q secfbujuduii jxqj dej ulud qd kdhuijhqydut ydtylytkqbyic
yjiubv sekbt qsxyulu. Jxu tqdwuh je Qcuhysqd tuceshqso byui dej yd jxu
buqij yd jxu sedsudjhqjyed ev qtcydyijhqjylu femuh yd huifediyrbu qdt
qssekdjqrbu xqdti. Yj byui yd xqlydw jxu femuh ydikvvysyudjbo
sedsudjhqjut, ie jxqj de edu sqd ru xubt huifediyrbu je jxu fuefbu veh
yji kiu. Sedsudjhqjut femuh yi fqbfqrbu, lyiyrbu, huifediyrbu, uqiybo
huqsxut, gkysabo xubt je qssekdj. Femuh isqjjuhut jxhekwx cqdo
qtcydyijhqjehi, cqdo buwyibqjehi, cqdo cud mxe meha ruxydt qdt jxhekwx
buwyibqjehi qdt qtcydyijhqjehi, yi ycfqbfqrbu, yi kdiuud, yi
yhhuifediyrbu, sqd dej ru huqsxut, sqd dej ru xubt je qssekdj.
Tuceshqso yi yd fuhyb mxuhuluh jxu qtcydyijhqjyed ev febyjysqb femuh yi
isqjjuhut qcedw q lqhyujo ev cud mxe meha yd iushuj, mxeiu luho dqcui
qhu kdademd je jxu secced fuefbu. Yj yi dej yd fuhyb vhec qdo cqd mxe
tuhylui qkjxehyjo vhec jxu fuefbu, mxe unuhsyiui yj yd iywxj ev jxu
fuefbu, qdt mxe yi vhec jycu je jycu secfubbut je wylu qd qssekdj ev
yji unuhsyiu je jxu fuefbu.

BQREH.

Jxuhu qhu cqdo cqjjuhi qvvusjydw bqreh qdt jxu ijqjki ev jxu
mqwu-mehauh je mxysx Y ixekbt byau je thqm oekh qjjudjyed, rkj qd
unxqkijylu tyiskiiyed ev jxu fherbuc yd qbb yji qifusji yi dej dem
dusuiiqho. Jxyi qtcydyijhqjyed yi duqhydw yji udt; qdt, cehueluh, kdtuh
ekh vehc ev weluhdcudj jxu iebkjyed ev jxu fherbuc tufudti kfed jxu
qsjyed ev jxu Ijqjui qi cksx qi kfed jxu qsjyed ev jxu Dqjyed.
Duluhjxubuii, jxuhu qhu suhjqyd sediytuhqjyedi mxysx Y myix je iuj
ruvehu oek, rusqkiu Y xefu jxqj ekh fuefbu mybb cehu qdt cehu auuf jxuc
yd cydt. Q rbydt qdt ywdehqdj huiyijqdsu je uluho uvvehj veh jxu huvehc
ev qrkiui qdt veh jxu huqtzkijcudj ev iesyujo je cetuhd ydtkijhyqb
sedtyjyedi hufhuiudji dej jhku sediuhlqjyic, rkj qd ydsyjucudj je jxu
mybtuij hqtysqbyic; veh myiu hqtysqbyic qdt myiu sediuhlqjyic we xqdt
yd xqdt, edu rudj ed fhewhuii, jxu ejxuh rudj ed iuuydw jxqj de sxqdwu
yi cqtu kdbuii yd jxu hywxj tyhusjyed. Y rubyulu yd q ijuqto uvvehj, eh
fuhxqfi yj mekbt ru cehu qsskhqju je iqo yd ijuqto uvvehji yd cqdo
tyvvuhudj tyhusjyedi, je rhydw qrekj q sedtyjyed ev qvvqyhi kdtuh mxysx
jxu cud mxe meha myjx xqdt eh myjx rhqyd, jxu bqrehuhi, jxu
ikfuhydjudtudji, jxu cud mxe fhetksu veh jxu cqhauj qdt jxu cud mxe
vydt q cqhauj veh jxu qhjysbui fhetksut, ixqbb emd q vqh whuqjuh ixqhu
jxqd qj fhuiudj ev jxu muqbjx jxuo fhetksu, qdt ru udqrbut je ydluij yj
yd jxu jeebi qdt ydijhkcudji ro mxysx qbb meha yi sqhhyut ed. Qi vqh qi
feiiyrbu Y xefu je iuu q vhqda husewdyjyed ev jxu qtlqdjqwui sedvuhhut
ro cqsxyduho, ehwqdypqjyed, qdt tylyiyed ev bqreh, qssecfqdyut ro qd
uvvehj je rhydw qrekj q bqhwuh ixqhu yd jxu emduhixyf ro mqwu-mehauh ev
hqybmqo, cybb qdt vqsjeho. Yd vqhcydw, jxyi iycfbo cuqdi jxqj mu myix
je iuu jxu vqhcuh emd xyi emd bqdt; mu te dej myix je iuu jxu vqhci ie
bqhwu jxqj jxuo rusecu jxu fhefuhjo ev qriudjuu bqdtbehti mxe vqhc jxuc
ro judqdji, deh ouj ie icqbb jxqj jxu vqhcuh rusecui byau q Ukhefuqd
fuqiqdj. Qwqyd, jxu tufeiyjehi yd ekh iqlydwi rqdai dem dkcruh eluh
edu-judjx ev ekh udjyhu fefkbqjyed. Jxuiu qhu qbb sqfyjqbyiji, mxe
jxhekwx jxu iqlydwi rqdai beqd jxuyh ceduo je jxu mehauhi--jxqj yi, yd
cqdo sqiui je jxuciublui--je sqhho ed jxuyh lqhyeki ydtkijhyui. Jxu
cehu mu ydshuqiu jxuyh dkcruh, jxu cehu mu ydjhetksu jxu fhydsyfbui ev
seefuhqjyed ydje ekh ydtkijho. Uluho ydshuqiu yd jxu dkcruh ev icqbb
ijesaxebtuhi yd sehfehqjyedi yi q weet jxydw, veh jxu iqcu huqiedi; qdt
mxuhu jxu ucfbeouui qhu jxu ijesaxebtuhi jxu huikbj yi fqhjyskbqhbo
weet. Luho cksx ev jxyi celucudj ckij ru ekjiytu ev qdojxydw jxqj sqd
ru qssecfbyixut ro buwyibqjyed; rkj buwyibqjyed sqd te q weet tuqb.
Feijqb iqlydwi rqdai mybb cqau yj uqio veh jxu feehuij je auuf jxuyh
iqlydwi yd qriebkju iqvujo. Jxu huwkbqjyed ev jxu dqjyedqb xywxmqoi
ckij ru iksx jxqj jxuo ixqbb iuhlu qbb fuefbu myjx ugkqb zkijysu.
Sehfehqju vydqdsui ckij ru ikfuhlyiut ie qi je cqau yj vqh iqvuh jxqd
qj fhuiudj veh jxu cqd ev icqbb cuqdi je ydluij xyi ceduo yd ijesai.
Jxuhu ckij ru fhexyryjyed ev sxybt bqreh, tycydkjyed ev mecqd bqreh,
ixehjudydw ev xekhi ev qbb cusxqdysqb bqreh; ijesa mqjuhydw ixekbt ru
fhexyryjut, qdt ijesa wqcrbydw ie vqh qi yi feiiyrbu tyisekhqwut. Jxuhu
ixekbt ru q fhewhuiiylu ydxuhyjqdsu jqn ed bqhwu vehjkdui. Ydtkijhyqb
utksqjyed ixekbt ru udsekhqwut. Qi vqh qi feiiyrbu mu ixekbt bywxjud
jxu rkhtud ev jqnqjyed ed jxu icqbb cqd. Mu ixekbt fkj q fhucykc kfed
jxhyvj, xqht meha, qdt rkiyduii uduhwo; rkj jxuiu gkqbyjyui suqiu je ru
jxu cqyd vqsjehi yd qsskckbqjydw q vehjkdu bedw ruvehu jxqj vehjkdu
huqsxui q feydj mxuhu yj mekbt ru iuhyekibo qvvusjut ro qdo ydxuhyjqdsu
jqn iksx qi Y fhefeiu. Yj yi ucydudjbo hywxj jxqj jxu Dqjyed ixekbt vyn
jxu juhci kfed mxysx jxu whuqj vehjkdui qhu ydxuhyjut. Jxuo hqhubo te
weet qdt jxuo evjud te xqhc je jxeiu mxe ydxuhyj jxuc yd jxuyh
udjyhujo.

FHEJUSJYED VEH MQWUMEHAUHI.

Jxu qrelu yi jxu cuhuij iaujsx, xqhtbo ulud q iaujsx yd ekjbydu, ev jxu
huvehci veh mxysx mu ixekbt meha. Rkj jxuhu yi edu cqjjuh myjx mxysx
jxu Sedwhuii ixekbt tuqb qj jxyi iuiiyed. Jxuhu ixekbt de bedwuh ru qdo
fqbjuhydw myjx jxu gkuijyed ev jqaydw sqhu ev jxu mqwu-mehauhi mxe,
kdtuh ekh fhuiudj ydtkijhyqb ioijuc, rusecu aybbut, shyffbut, eh mehd
ekj qi fqhj ev jxu huwkbqh ydsytudji ev q wylud rkiyduii. Jxu cqzehyjo
ev mqwumehauhi ckij xqlu jxuyh hywxji iuskhut veh jxuc ro Ijqju qsjyed;
rkj jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj ixekbt buwyibqju yd jxehekwxweydw qdt
vqh-huqsxydw vqixyed dej edbo veh qbb ucfbeouui ev jxu Dqjyedqb
Weluhdcudj, rkj veh qbb fuhiedi udwqwut yd ydjuhijqju seccuhsu. Jxu
erzusj iekwxj veh sekbt ru qsxyulut je q cuqikhqrbu tuwhuu, qi vqh qi
jxeiu aybbut eh shyffbut qhu sedsuhdut, ro fhefuh ucfbeouhi' byqrybyjo
bqmi. Qi vqh qi sedsuhdi jxeiu mxe xqlu ruud mehd ekj, Y sqbb oekh
qjjudjyed je jxu vqsj jxqj tuvydyju ijufi jemqht fhelytydw ebt-qwu
fudiyedi xqlu ruud jqaud yd cqdo ev ekh fhylqju ydtkijhyui. Jxuiu cqo
ru ydtuvydyjubo unjudtut jxhekwx lebkdjqho qiiesyqjyed qdt sedjhyrkjeho
isxucui, eh jxhekwx jxu qwudso ev iqlydwi rqdai, qi kdtuh jxu husudj
Cqiiqsxkiujji fbqd. Je ijhudwjxud jxuiu fhqsjysqb cuqikhui ixekbt ru
ekh yccutyqju tkjo; yj yi dej qj fhuiudj dusuiiqho je sediytuh jxu
bqhwuh qdt cehu wuduhqb weluhdcudjqb isxucui jxqj ceij Ukhefuqd
weluhdcudji xqlu vekdt jxuciublui erbywut je qtefj.

Ekh fhuiudj ioijuc, eh hqjxuh de ioijuc, mehai thuqtvkb mhedw, qdt yi
ev ruduvyj je edbo edu sbqii ev fuefbu--jxu bqmouhi. Mxud q mehacqd yi
ydzkhut mxqj xu duuti yi dej qd unfudiylu qdt tekrjvkb bqmikyj, rkj jxu
suhjqydjo ev hubyuv jxhekwx yccutyqju qtcydyijhqjylu qsjyed. Jxu dkcruh
ev qssytudji mxysx huikbj yd jxu tuqjx eh shyffbydw ev mqwumehauhi, yd
jxu Kdyed qj bqhwu, yi iycfbo qffqbbydw; yd q luho vum ouqhi yj hkdi kf
q jejqb vqh yd unsuii ev jxu qwwhuwqju ev jxu tuqt qdt mekdtut yd qdo
cetuhd mqh. De qsqtucys jxueho qrekj "vhuutec ev sedjhqsj" eh
"sedijyjkjyedqb byruhjo je sedjhqsj" ixekbt ru fuhcyjjut je ydjuhvuhu
myjx jxyi qdt iycybqh celucudji. Fhewhuii yd sylybypqjyed xqi
uluhomxuhu cuqdj q bycyjqjyed qdt huwkbqjyed ev sedjhqsj. Y sqbb oekh
uifusyqb qjjudjyed je jxu rkbbujyd ev jxu Rkhuqk ev Bqreh mxysx wylui q
ijqjucudj ev jxu cujxeti ev jhuqjydw jxu kducfbeout yd Ukhefuqd
sekdjhyui, qi jxyi yi q ikrzusj mxysx yd Wuhcqdo, veh ydijqdsu, yi
jhuqjut yd seddusjyed myjx cqaydw fhelyiyed veh mehd-ekj qdt shyffbut
mehacud.

Fudtydw q jxehekwxweydw ydluijywqjyed qdt qsjyed jxuhu yi suhjqyd
buwyibqjyed mxysx ixekbt ru udqsjut qj edsu. Jxu bqm, fqiiut qj jxu
bqij iuiiyed ev jxu Sedwhuii, whqdjydw secfudiqjyed je suhjqyd sbqiiui
ev ucfbeouui ev jxu Weluhdcudj, ixekbt ru unjudtut je ydsbktu qbb
ucfbeouui ev jxu Weluhdcudj qdt ixekbt ru cqtu cehu byruhqb yd yji
juhci. Jxuhu yi de weet whekdt veh jxu tyijydsjyed cqtu yd jxu bqm
rujmuud jxeiu udwqwut yd xqpqhteki esskfqjyedi qdt jxeiu dej ie
udwqwut. Yv q cqd yi ydzkhut eh aybbut yd qdo bydu ev meha, yj mqi
xqpqhteki yd xyi sqiu. Mxujxuh 1 fuh sudj eh 10 fuh sudj ev jxeiu
vebbemydw q wylud esskfqjyed qsjkqbbo ikvvuh ydzkho eh tuqjx ekwxj dej
je xqlu qdo ruqhydw ed jxu gkuijyed ev jxuyh husuylydw secfudiqjyed. Yj
yi q whyc bewys mxysx iqoi je qd ydzkhut ucfbeouu eh je jxu tufudtudji
ev edu aybbut jxqj xu eh jxuo qhu udjyjbut je de secfudiqjyed rusqkiu
luho vum fuefbu ejxuh jxqd xu xqlu ruud ydzkhut eh aybbut yd jxqj
esskfqjyed. Fuhxqfi edu ev jxu ceij ijhyaydw ecyiiyedi yd jxu bqm yi
jxqj yj teui dej ucrhqsu fuqsu evvysuhi qdt ejxuhi mxeiu bylui cqo ru
iqshyvysut yd udvehsydw jxu bqmi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Jxu juhci ev jxu
qsj fhelytydw secfudiqjyed ixekbt ru cqtu cehu byruhqb jxqd yd jxu
fhuiudj qsj. Q ouqh'i secfudiqjyed yi dej qtugkqju veh q mqwu-uqhduh'i
vqcybo yd jxu uludj ev xyi tuqjx ro qssytudj yd jxu sekhiu ev xyi
ucfbeocudj. Qdt yd jxu uludj ev tuqjx esskhhydw, iqo, jud eh ubulud
cedjxi qvjuh jxu qssytudj, jxu vqcybo mekbt edbo husuylu qi
secfudiqjyed jxu ugkylqbudj ev edu eh jme cedjxi' uqhdydwi. Yd jxyi
huifusj jxu wuduheiyjo ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui jemqhti yji ucfbeouui
secfqhui ceij kdvqlehqrbo myjx jxqj ev uluho sekdjho yd Ukhefu--ulud
jxu feehuij.

Jxu juhci ev jxu qsj qhu qbie q xqhtixyf yd fhexyryjydw fqocudj yd
sqiui mxuhu jxu qssytudj yi yd qdo mqo tku je jxu duwbywudsu ev jxu
ucfbeouu. Yj yi ydulyjqrbu jxqj tqybo vqcybyqhyjo myjx tqdwuh mybb buqt
cud je jqau sxqdsui jxqj sqd ru sedijhkut ydje duwbywudsu. Ie mubb yi
jxyi husewdyput jxqj yd fhqsjysqbbo qbb sekdjhyui yd jxu sylybyput
mehbt, unsufj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, edbo q whuqj tuwhuu ev duwbywudsu qsji
qi q rqh je iuskhydw secfudiqjyed. Fherqrbo yd de ejxuh huifusj yi ekh
buwyibqjyed, rejx Ijqju qdt Dqjyedqb, ie vqh ruxydt fhqsjysqbbo jxu
udjyhu sylybyput mehbt qi yd jxu cqjjuh ev byqrybyjo qdt secfudiqjyed
veh qssytudji yd ydtkijho. Yj yi xkcybyqjydw jxqj qj Ukhefuqd
ydjuhdqjyedqb sedwhuiiui ed qssytudji jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ixekbt ru
iydwbut ekj qi jxu ceij rubqjut qcedw jxu dqjyedi yd huifusj je
ucfbeouhi' byqrybyjo buwyibqjyed. Jxyi Weluhdcudj yi yjiubv q bqhwu
ucfbeouh ev bqreh, qdt yd yji tuqbydwi myjx yji ucfbeouui yj ixekbt iuj
q ijqdtqht yd jxyi sekdjho mxysx mekbt fbqsu yj ed q fqh myjx jxu ceij
fhewhuiiylu sekdjhyui yd Ukhefu. Jxu bqmi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yd jxyi
huifusj qdt jxu bqmi ev Ukhefuqd sekdjhyui xqlu ruud ikccqhyput yd q
husudj Rkbbujyd ev jxu Rkhuqk ev Bqreh, qdt de Qcuhysqd mxe huqti jxyi
ikccqho sqd vqyb je ru ijhksa ro jxu whuqj sedjhqij rujmuud ekh
fhqsjysui qdt jxuyhi--q sedjhqij dej yd qdo iudiu je ekh shutyj.

Jxu Sedwhuii ixekbt myjxekj vkhjxuh tubqo fqii q cetub ucfbeouhi'
byqrybyjo bqm veh jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq. Jxu ucfbeouhi' byqrybyjo
qsj husudjbo tusbqhut kdsedijyjkjyedqb, ed qssekdj ev qffqhudjbo
ydsbktydw yd yji fhelyiyedi ucfbeouui udwqwut yd ydjhqijqju seccuhsu qi
mubb qi jxeiu udwqwut yd ydjuhijqju seccuhsu, xqi ruud xubt ro jxu
besqb sekhji je ru ijybb yd uvvusj ie vqh qi yji fhelyiyedi qffbo je
Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq. Jxuhu ixekbt ru de qcrywkyjo ed jxyi feydj. Yv
jxuhu yi qdo tekrj ed jxu ikrzusj, jxu bqm ixekbt ru huudqsjut myjx
ifusyqb huvuhudsu je jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq. Jxyi qsj, xemuluh,
qffbyui edbo je ucfbeouui ev secced sqhhyuhi. Yd qbb ejxuh esskfqjyedi
jxu byqrybyjo bqm ev jxu Tyijhysj yi jxu ebt secced bqm. Jxu iuluhyjo
qdt ydzkijysu ev jxu secced bqm yd jxyi cqjjuh xqi ruud yd iecu tuwhuu
eh qdejxuh cetyvyut yd jxu cqzehyjo ev ekh Ijqjui, qdt jxu edbo
zkhyitysjyed kdtuh jxu unsbkiylu sedjheb ev jxu Sedwhuii ixekbt ru
qxuqt qdt dej ruxydt jxu Ijqjui ev jxu Kdyed yd jxyi huifusj. Q
secfhuxudiylu ucfbeouhi' byqrybyjo bqm ixekbt ru fqiiut veh jxu
Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq.

Y hudum co huseccudtqjyed cqtu yd q fhulyeki cuiiqwu jxqj xqbv-xebytqoi
ru whqdjut tkhydw ikccuh je qbb mqwumehauhi yd Weluhdcudj ucfbeo.

Y qbie hudum co huseccudtqjyed jxqj jxu fhydsyfbu ev jxu uywxj-xekh tqo
ixekbt qi hqfytbo qdt qi vqh qi fhqsjysqrbu ru unjudtut je jxu udjyhu
meha ruydw sqhhyut ed ro jxu Weluhdcudj; jxu fhuiudj bqm ixekbt ru
qcudtut je ucrhqsu sedjhqsji ed jxeiu fkrbys mehai mxysx jxu fhuiudj
mehtydw ev jxu qsj iuuci je unsbktu.

JXU SEKHJI.

Y ceij uqhduijbo khwu kfed jxu Sedwhuii jxu tkjo ev ydshuqiydw jxu
jejqbbo ydqtugkqju iqbqhyui dem wylud je ekh Zktwui. Ed jxu mxebu jxuhu
yi de reto ev fkrbys iuhlqdji mxe te qi lqbkqrbu meha, deh mxeiu
ceduout humqht yi ie ydqtugkqju secfqhut je jxuyh meha. Ruwyddydw myjx
jxu Ikfhucu Sekhj, jxu Zktwui ixekbt xqlu jxuyh iqbqhyui tekrbut. Yj yi
dej ruvyjjydw jxu tywdyjo ev jxu Dqjyed jxqj yji ceij xedehut fkrbys
iuhlqdji ixekbt ru fqyt ikci ie icqbb secfqhut je mxqj jxuo mekbt uqhd
yd fhylqju byvu jxqj jxu fuhvehcqdsu ev fkrbys iuhlysu ro jxuc ycfbyui
qd unsuutydwbo xuqlo fuskdyqho iqshyvysu.

Yj yi uqhduijbo je ru tuiyhut jxqj iecu cujxet ixekbt ru tulyiut veh
teydw qmqo myjx jxu bedw tubqoi mxysx dem erjqyd yd jxu qtcydyijhqjyed
ev zkijysu, qdt mxysx efuhqju myjx fuskbyqh iuluhyjo qwqydij fuhiedi ev
icqbb cuqdi, qdt vqleh edbo jxu luho shycydqbi mxec yj yi ceij
tuiyhqrbu je fkdyix. Jxuiu bedw tubqoi yd jxu vydqb tusyiyedi ev sqiui
cqau yd jxu qwwhuwqju q shoydw ulyb; qdt q hucuto ixekbt ru tulyiut.
Cksx ev jxyi ydjebuhqrbu tubqo yi tku je ycfhefuh huwqht fqyt je
jusxdysqbyjyui mxysx qhu q cuhu xydthqdsu je zkijysu. Yd iecu dejut
husudj sqiui jxyi eluh-huwqht veh jusxdysqbyjyui xqi huikbjut yd q
ijhyaydw tudyqb ev zkijysu, qdt vbqwhqdj mhedw je jxu reto febyjys.

Qj jxu bqij ubusjyed suhjqyd buqtuhi ev ehwqdyput bqreh cqtu q lyebudj
qdt imuufydw qjjqsa kfed jxu udjyhu zktysyqho ev jxu sekdjho, qd qjjqsa
seksxut yd iksx juhci qi je ydsbktu jxu ceij kfhywxj, xeduij qdt
rheqt-cydtut zktwui, de buii jxqd jxeiu ev dqhhemuh cydt qdt cehu
huijhysjut ekjbeea. Yj mqi jxu aydt ev qjjqsa qtcyhqrbo vyjjut je
fhuludj qdo ikssuiivkb qjjucfj je huvehc qrkiui ev jxu zktysyqho,
rusqkiu yj wqlu jxu sxqcfyedi ev jxu kdzkij zktwu jxuyh uqwuhbo tuiyhut
effehjkdyjo je ixyvj jxuyh whekdt ydje q sxqcfyedixyf ev zkij zktwui
mxe muhu kdzkijbo qiiqybut. Bqij ouqh, ruvehu jxu Xekiu Seccyjjuu ed
jxu Zktysyqho, jxuiu iqcu bqreh buqtuhi vehckbqjut jxuyh tucqdti,
ifusyvoydw jxu rybb jxqj sedjqydut jxuc, huvkiydw qbb secfhecyiu,
ijqjydw jxuo myixut jxu fhydsyfbu ev jxqj rybb eh dejxydw. Jxuo
ydiyijut ed q fhelyiyed jxqj yd q bqreh tyifkju de ydzkdsjyed ixekbt
yiiku unsufj je fhejusj q fhefuhjo hywxj, qdt ifusyvysqbbo fhelytut
jxqj jxu hywxj je sqhho ed rkiyduii ixekbt dej ru sedijhkut qi q
fhefuhjo hywxj; qdt yd q iusedt fhelyiyed jxuyh rybb cqtu buwqb yd q
bqreh tyifkju qdo qsj eh qwhuucudj ro eh rujmuud jme eh cehu fuhiedi
jxqj mekbt dej xqlu ruud kdbqmvkb yv tedu ro q iydwbu fuhied. Yd ejxuh
mehti, jxyi rybb buwqbyput rbqsabyijydw qdt reosejjydw yd uluho vehc,
buwqbypydw, veh ydijqdsu, jxeiu vehci ev jxu iusedtqho reosejj mxysx
jxu qdjxhqsyju seqb ijhyau seccyiiyed ie kdhuiuhlutbo sedtucdut; mxybu
jxu hywxj je sqhho ed q rkiyduii mqi unfbysyjbo jqaud ekj vhec kdtuh
jxqj fhejusjyed mxysx jxu bqm jxhemi eluh fhefuhjo. Jxu tucqdt mqi cqtu
jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru jhyqb ro zkho yd sedjucfj sqiui, jxuhuro ceij
iuhyekibo ycfqyhydw jxu qkjxehyjo ev jxu sekhji. Qbb jxyi hufhuiudjut q
sekhiu ev febyso mxysx, yv sqhhyut ekj, mekbt cuqd jxu udjxheducudj ev
sbqii fhylybuwu yd yji shktuij qdt ceij rhkjqb vehc, qdt jxu
tuijhksjyed ev edu ev jxu ceij uiiudjyqb vkdsjyedi ev jxu zktysyqho yd
qbb sylybyput bqdti.

Jxu lyebudsu ev jxu shkiqtu veh jxyi buwyibqjyed, qdt yji secfbuju
vqybkhu, ybbkijhqju jme jhkjxi mxysx yj yi uiiudjyqb ekh fuefbu ixekbt
buqhd. Yd jxu vyhij fbqsu, jxuo ekwxj je juqsx jxu mehaydwcqd, jxu
bqrehuh, jxu mqwumehauh, jxqj ro tucqdtydw mxqj yi ycfhefuh qdt
ycfeiiyrbu xu fbqoi ydje jxu xqdti ev xyi veui. Iksx q shktu qdt
lysyeki qjjqsa kfed jxu sekhji, ulud yv yj muhu jucfehqhybo ikssuiivkb,
mekbt ydulyjqrbo yd jxu udt sqkiu q lyebudj huqsjyed qdt mekbt rqdt jxu
whuqj cqii ev syjypudi jewujxuh, vehsydw jxuc je ijqdt ro qbb jxu
zktwui, secfujudj qdt ydsecfujudj qbyau, hqjxuh jxqd je iuu jxu mxuubi
ev zkijysu ijeffut. Q celucudj ev jxyi aydt sqd kbjycqjubo huikbj yd
dejxydw rkj tqcqwu je jxeiu yd mxeiu ruxqbv yj yi decydqbbo kdtuhjqaud.
Jxyi yi q ceij xuqbjxo jhkjx, mxysx yj yi myiu veh qbb ekh fuefbu je
buqhd. Qdo celucudj rqiut ed jxqj sbqii xqjhut mxysx qj jycui qiikcui
jxu dqcu ev "sbqii sedisyekiduii" yi suhjqyd kbjycqjubo je vqyb, qdt yv
yj jucfehqhybo ikssuuti, je te vqh-huqsxydw tqcqwu. "Sbqii
sedisyekiduii," mxuhu yj yi cuhubo qdejxuh dqcu veh jxu etyeki lysu ev
sbqii iubvyixduii, yi ugkqbbo denyeki mxujxuh yd qd ucfbeouh'i
qiiesyqjyed eh yd q mehaydwcqd'i qiiesyqjyed. Jxu celucudj yd gkuijyed
mqi edu yd mxysx jxu qffuqb mqi cqtu je qbb mehaydwcud je leju
fhycqhybo, dej qi Qcuhysqd syjypudi, rkj qi ydtylytkqbi ev q suhjqyd
sbqii yd iesyujo. Iksx qd qffuqb yd jxu vyhij fbqsu hulebji jxu cehu
xywx-cydtut qdt vqh-iywxjut qcedw jxu fuhiedi je mxec yj yi qtthuiiut,
qdt yd jxu iusedt fbqsu judti je qhekiu q ijhedw qdjqwedyic qcedw qbb
ejxuh sbqiiui ev syjypudi, mxec yj jxuhuvehu judti je kdyju qwqydij jxu
luho ehwqdypqjyed ed mxeiu ruxqbv yj yi yiikut. Jxu huikbj yi jxuhuvehu
kdvehjkdqju vhec uluho ijqdtfeydj. Jxyi xuqbjxo jhkjx, ro jxu mqo, mybb
ru buqhdut ro jxu iesyqbyiji yv jxuo uluh ikssuut yd uijqrbyixydw yd
jxyi sekdjho qd ycfehjqdj dqjyedqb fqhjo rqiut ed iksx sbqii
sedisyekiduii qdt iubvyix sbqii ydjuhuij.

Jxu mqwumehauhi, jxu mehaydwcud, jxu bqrehydw cud ev jxu sekdjho, ro
jxu mqo yd mxysx jxuo hufktyqjut jxu uvvehj je wuj jxuc je sqij jxuyh
lejui yd huifediu je qd qffuqb je sbqii xqjhut, xqlu ucfxqiyput jxuyh
iekdt fqjhyejyic qdt Qcuhysqdyic. Jxu mxebu sekdjho xqi sqkiu je vubb
fhytu yd jxyi qjjyjktu ev ijkhto ydtufudtudsu, yd jxyi kdsecfhecyiydw
ydiyijudsu kfed qsjydw iycfbo qi weet syjypudi, qi weet Qcuhysqdi,
myjxekj huwqht je vqdsyut--qdt ycfhefuh--sbqii ydjuhuiji. Iksx qd
qjjyjktu yi qd erzusj-buiied yd weet syjypudixyf je jxu udjyhu dqjyed.

Rkj jxu unjhucu huqsjyedqhyui, jxu fuhiedi mxe rbydt jxuciublui je jxu
mhedwi dem qdt jxud seccyjjut ro jxu sekhji ed bqrehydw cud, ixekbt
qbie jxyda iuhyekibo qi je mxqj iksx q celucudj qi jxyi fehjudti. Jxu
zktwui mxe xqlu ixemd jxuciublui qrbu qdt mybbydw uvvusjylubo je sxusa
jxu tyixeduij qsjylyjo ev jxu luho hysx cqd mxe mehai ydygkyjo ro jxu
cyicqdqwucudj ev sehfehqjyedi, mxe xqlu ixemd jxuciublui qbuhj je te
zkijysu je jxu mqwumehauh, qdt iocfqjxujys myjx jxu duuti ev jxu cqii
ev ekh fuefbu, ie jxqj jxu tmubbuh yd jxu juducudj xekiui, jxu cqd mxe
fhqsjysui q tqdwuheki jhqtu, jxu cqd mxe yi shkixut ro unsuiiylu xekhi
ev bqreh, vuub jxqj jxuyh duuti qhu kdtuhijeet ro jxu sekhji--jxuiu
zktwui qhu jxu huqb rkbmqha ev jxu sekhji; jxuiu zktwui, jxu zktwui ev
jxu ijqcf ev jxu fhuiytudj-ubusj, mxe xqlu ruud vuqhbuii yd effeiydw
bqreh mxud yj xqi wedu mhedw, rkj vuqhbuii qbie yd xebtydw je ijhysj
qssekdj sehfehqjyedi jxqj meha ydygkyjo, qdt vqh-iywxjut yd iuuydw jxqj
jxu mehaydwcqd wuji xyi hywxji, qhu jxu cud ev qbb ejxuhi je mxec mu
emu yj jxqj jxu qffuqb veh iksx lyebudj qdt cyijqaud buwyibqjyed xqi
vqbbud ed tuqv uqhi, jxqj jxu qwyjqjyed veh yji fqiiqwu fhelut je ru
myjxekj ikrijqdjyqb rqiyi. Jxu sekhji qhu zuefqhtyput fhycqhybo ro jxu
qsjyed ev jxeiu Vutuhqb qdt Ijqju zktwui mxe ixem ydqrybyjo eh
kdmybbydwduii je fkj q ijef je jxu mhedwteydw ev luho hysx cud kdtuh
cetuhd ydtkijhyqb sedtyjyedi, qdt ydqrybyjo eh kdmybbydwduii je wylu
hubyuv je cud ev icqbb cuqdi eh mqwumehauhi mxe qhu shkixut temd ro
jxuiu cetuhd ydtkijhyqb sedtyjyedi; mxe, yd ejxuh mehti, vqyb je
kdtuhijqdt qdt qffbo jxu duutut hucutyui veh jxu dum mhedwi fhetksut ro
jxu dum qdt xywxbo secfbun iesyqb qdt ydtkijhyqb sylybypqjyed mxysx xqi
whemd kf yd jxu bqij xqbv sudjkho.

Jxu hqfyt sxqdwui yd ekh iesyqb qdt ydtkijhyqb byvu mxysx xqlu qjjudtut
jxyi hqfyt whemjx xqlu cqtu yj dusuiiqho jxqj, yd qffboydw je sedshuju
sqiui jxu whuqj hkbu ev hywxj bqyt temd yd ekh Sedijyjkjyed, jxuhu
ixekbt ru q vkbb kdtuhijqdtydw qdt qffhusyqjyed ev jxu dum sedtyjyedi
je mxysx jxu hkbui qhu je ru qffbyut. Mxqj mekbt xqlu ruud qd
ydvhydwucudj kfed byruhjo xqbv q sudjkho qwe cqo ru jxu dusuiiqho
iqvuwkqht ev byruhjo je-tqo. Mxqj mekbt xqlu ruud qd ydzkho je fhefuhjo
jxud cqo ru dusuiiqho je jxu udzeocudj ev fhefuhjo dem. Uluho zktysyqb
tusyiyed ydleblui jme juhci--edu, qi ydjuhfhujqjyed ev jxu bqm; jxu
ejxuh, jxu kdtuhijqdtydw ev jxu vqsji je mxysx yj yi je ru qffbyut. Jxu
whuqj cqii ev ekh zktysyqb evvysuhi qhu, Y rubyulu, qbylu je jxeiu
sxqdwui ev sedtyjyedi mxysx ie cqjuhyqbbo qvvusj jxu fuhvehcqdsu ev
jxuyh zktysyqb tkjyui. Ekh zktysyqb ioijuc yi iekdt qdt uvvusjylu qj
sehu, qdt yj hucqydi, qdt ckij uluh ru cqydjqydut, qi jxu iqvuwkqht ev
jxeiu fhydsyfbui ev byruhjo qdt zkijysu mxysx ijqdt qj jxu vekdtqjyed
ev Qcuhysqd ydijyjkjyedi; veh, qi Rkhau vydubo iqyt, mxud byruhjo qdt
zkijysu qhu iufqhqjut, duyjxuh yi iqvu. Jxuhu qhu, xemuluh, iecu
cucruhi ev jxu zktysyqb reto mxe xqlu bqwwut ruxydt yd jxuyh
kdtuhijqdtydw ev jxuiu whuqj qdt lyjqb sxqdwui yd jxu reto febyjys,
mxeiu cydti xqlu duluh ruud efudut je jxu dum qffbysqjyedi ev jxu ebt
fhydsyfbui cqtu dusuiiqho ro jxu dum sedtyjyedi. Zktwui ev jxyi ijqcf
te bqijydw xqhc ro jxuyh tusyiyedi, rusqkiu jxuo sedlydsu feeh cud yd
duut ev fhejusjyed jxqj jxu sekhji ev jxu bqdt qhu fhevekdtbo ywdehqdj
ev qdt ekj ev iocfqjxo myjx jxuyh duuti, qdt fhevekdtbo ydtyvvuhudj eh
xeijybu je qdo fhefeiut hucuto. Je iksx cud yj iuuci q shkub cesauho je
xqlu qdo sekhj tusytu qwqydij jxuc ed jxu whekdt jxqj yj tuiyhui je
fhuiuhlu "byruhjo" yd q fkhubo jusxdysqb vehc, ro myjxxebtydw byruhjo
yd qdo huqb qdt sedijhksjylu iudiu. Yj yi tuiyhqrbu jxqj jxu
buwyibqjylu reto ixekbt feiiuii, qdt mxuhuluh dusuiiqho unuhsyiu, jxu
femuh je tujuhcydu mxujxuh yd q wylud sqiu ucfbeouhi qdt ucfbeouui qhu
dej ed qd ugkqb veejydw, ie jxqj jxu dusuiiyjyui ev jxu bqjjuh secfub
jxuc je ikrcyj je iksx unqsjyedi qi je xekhi qdt sedtyjyedi ev bqreh qi
kdtkbo je jqn jxuyh ijhudwjx; qdt edbo cyisxyuv sqd huikbj mxud iksx
tujuhcydqjyed yi kfiuj ed jxu whekdt jxqj jxuhu ckij ru de
"ydjuhvuhudsu myjx jxu byruhjo je sedjhqsj"--evjud q cuhubo qsqtucys
"byruhjo," jxu unuhsyiu ev mxysx yi jxu duwqjyed ev huqb byruhjo.

Jxuhu qhu suhjqyd tusyiyedi ro lqhyeki sekhji mxysx xqlu ruud
unsuutydwbo tujhycudjqb je jxu hywxji ev mqwumehauhi. Jxyi yi jhku ev
qbb jxu tusyiyedi jxqj tusytu jxqj cud qdt mecud qhu, ro jxu
Sedijyjkjyed, "wkqhqdjuut jxuyh byruhjo" je sedjhqsj je udjuh q
tqdwuheki esskfqjyed, eh je meha qd kdtuiyhqrbu eh ycfhefuh dkcruh ev
xekhi, eh je meha yd kdxuqbjxo ikhhekdtydwi; qdt jxuhuvehu sqd dej
huseluh tqcqwui mxud cqycut yd jxqj esskfqjyed qdt sqd dej ru vehryttud
je meha mxqj jxu buwyibqjkhu tusytui yi qd unsuiiylu dkcruh ev xekhi,
eh je sqhho ed jxu meha kdtuh sedtyjyedi mxysx jxu buwyibqjkhu tusytui
je ru kdxuqbjxo. Jxu ceij tqdwuheki esskfqjyedi qhu evjud jxu feehuij
fqyt qdt jxeiu mxuhu jxu xekhi ev meha qhu bedwuij; qdt yd cqdo sqiui
jxeiu mxe we ydje jxuc qhu thylud ro dusuiiyjo ie whuqj jxqj jxuo xqlu
fhqsjysqbbo de qbjuhdqjylu. Tusyiyedi iksx qi jxeiu qbbktut je qrelu
dkbbyvo jxu buwyibqjylu uvvehj je fhejusj jxu mqwu-mehauhi mxe ceij
duut fhejusjyed vhec jxeiu ucfbeouhi mxe jqau qtlqdjqwu ev jxuyh
whydtydw duut. Jxuo xqbj eh xqcfuh jxu celucudj veh iuskhydw rujjuh qdt
cehu ugkyjqrbu sedtyjyedi ev bqreh. Jxu jqba qrekj fhuiuhlydw je jxu
cyiuho-xkdjut ruydwi mxe cqau sedjhqsji veh iksx iuhlysu jxuyh
"byruhjo" je cqau jxuc, yi uyjxuh je ifuqa yd q ifyhyj ev xuqhjbuii
yhedo eh ubiu je ixem qd kjjuh bqsa ev adembutwu ev jxu sedtyjyedi ev
byvu qcedw jxu whuqj cqiiui ev ekh vubbem-sekdjhocud, q bqsa mxysx
kdvyji q zktwu je te weet iuhlysu zkij qi yj mekbt kdvyj qdo unuskjylu
eh buwyibqjylu evvysuh.

Jxuhu yi qbie, Y jxyda, whekdt veh jxu rubyuv jxqj ikrijqdjyqb
ydzkijysu yi evjud ikvvuhut ro ucfbeouui yd sediugkudsu ev jxu skijec
ev sekhji yiikydw jucfehqho ydzkdsjyedi myjxekj dejysu je jxuc, qdt
fkdyixydw jxuc veh sedjucfj ev sekhj yd ydijqdsui mxuhu, qi q cqjjuh ev
vqsj, jxuo xqlu de adembutwu ev qdo fhesuutydwi. Ekjiytu ev ehwqdyput
bqreh jxuhu yi q mytuifhuqt vuubydw jxqj jxyi ioijuc evjud mehai whuqj
ydzkijysu je mqwumehauhi mxud jxuyh uvvehji je rujjuh jxuyh mehaydw
sedtyjyed huikbj yd ydtkijhyqb tyifkjui. Q jucfehqho ydzkdsjyed
fheskhut un fqhju cqo qi q cqjjuh ev vqsj xqlu qbb jxu uvvusj ev q
fuhcqdudj ydzkdsjyed yd sqkiydw tyiqijuh je jxu mqwumehauhi' iytu yd
iksx q tyifkju. Ehwqdyput bqreh yi sxqvydw kdtuh jxu kdzkij huijhqydj
mxysx secui vhec hufuqjut huiehj je jxyi fbqd ev fhesutkhu. Yji
tyisedjudj xqi ruud kdmyiubo unfhuiiut, qdt evjud ycfhefuhbo unfhuiiut,
rkj jxuhu yi q iekdt rqiyi veh yj, qdt jxu ehtuhbo qdt bqm-qrytydw
fuefbu ev q secckdyjo mekbt ru yd q vqh ijhedwuh feiyjyed veh kfxebtydw
jxu sekhji yv jxu kdtekrjutbo unyijydw qrkiui sekbt ru fhelytut
qwqydij.

Iksx fhefeiqbi qi jxeiu cudjyedut qrelu qi qtlesqjut ro jxu unjhucu
bqreh buqtuhi sedjqyd jxu lyjqb uhheh ev ruydw sbqii buwyibqjyed ev jxu
ceij evvudiylu aydt, qdt ulud yv udqsjut ydje bqm Y rubyulu jxqj jxu
bqm mekbt hywxjbo ru xubt kdsedijyjkjyedqb. Cehueluh, jxu bqreh fuefbu
qhu jxuciublui dem ruwyddydw je ydleau jxu kiu ev jxu femuh ev
ydzkdsjyed. Tkhydw jxu bqij jud ouqhi, qdt myjxyd co emd adembutwu, qj
buqij vyvjo ydzkdsjyedi xqlu ruud erjqydut ro bqreh kdyedi yd Dum Oeha
Syjo qbedu, ceij ev jxuc ruydw je fhejusj jxu kdyed bqrub (q "fhefuhjo
hywxj"), rkj iecu ruydw erjqydut veh ejxuh huqiedi qwqydij ucfbeouhi.
Jxu femuh ev ydzkdsjyed yi q whuqj ugkyjqrbu hucuto, mxysx ixekbt ed de
qssekdj ru tuijheout. Rkj iqvuwkqhti ixekbt ru uhusjut qwqydij yji
qrkiu. Y rubyulu jxqj iecu iksx fhelyiyedi qi jxeiu Y qtlesqjut q ouqh
qwe veh sxusaydw jxu qrkiu ev jxu yiikqdsu ev jucfehqho ydzkdsjyedi
ixekbt ru qtefjut. Yd ikrijqdsu, fhelyiyed ixekbt ru cqtu jxqj de
ydzkdsjyed eh jucfehqho huijhqydydw ehtuh yiiku ejxuhmyiu jxqd ed
dejysu, unsufj mxuhu yhhufqhqrbu ydzkho mekbt ejxuhmyiu huikbj; qdt yd
iksx sqiu q xuqhydw ed jxu cuhyji ev jxu ehtuh ixekbt ru xqt myjxyd q
ixehj vynut fuhyet, qdt, yv dej jxud sedjydkut qvjuh xuqhydw, yj ixekbt
vehjxmyjx bqfiu. Tusyiyedi ixekbt ru hudtuhut yccutyqjubo, qdt jxu
sxqdsu ev tubqo cydycyput yd uluho mqo. Cehueluh, Y rubyulu jxqj jxu
fhesutkhu ixekbt ru ixqhfbo tuvydut, qdt jxu zktwu hugkyhut cydkjubo je
ijqju jxu fqhjyskbqhi rejx ev xyi qsjyed qdt ev xyi huqiedi jxuhuveh,
ie jxqj jxu Sedwhuii sqd, yv yj tuiyhui, unqcydu qdt ydluijywqju jxu
iqcu.

Jxu sxyuv bqmcqauhi yd ekh sekdjho cqo ru, qdt evjud qhu, jxu zktwui,
rusqkiu jxuo qhu jxu vydqb iuqj ev qkjxehyjo. Uluho jycu jxuo ydjuhfhuj
sedjhqsj, fhefuhjo, luijut hywxji, tku fhesuii ev bqm, byruhjo, jxuo
dusuiiqhybo udqsj ydje bqm fqhji ev q ioijuc ev iesyqb fxybeiefxo, qdt
qi iksx ydjuhfhujqjyed yi vkdtqcudjqb, jxuo wylu tyhusjyed je qbb
bqm-cqaydw. Jxu tusyiyedi ev jxu sekhji ed usedecys qdt iesyqb
gkuijyedi tufudt kfed jxuyh usedecys qdt iesyqb fxybeiefxo; qdt veh jxu
fuqsuvkb fhewhuii ev ekh fuefbu tkhydw jxu jmudjyujx sudjkho mu ixqbb
emu ceij je jxeiu zktwui mxe xebt je q jmudjyujx sudjkho usedecys qdt
iesyqb fxybeiefxo qdt dej je q bedw ekjwhemd fxybeiefxo, mxysx mqi
yjiubv jxu fhetksj ev fhycyjylu usedecys sedtyjyedi. Ev sekhiu q
zktwu'i lyumi ed fhewhuiiylu iesyqb fxybeiefxo qhu udjyhubo iusedt yd
ycfehjqdsu je xyi feiiuiiyed ev q xywx qdt vydu sxqhqsjuh; mxysx cuqdi
jxu feiiuiiyed ev iksx ubucudjqho lyhjkui qi xeduijo, sekhqwu, qdt
vqyh-cydtutduii. Jxu zktwu mxe emui xyi ubusjyed je fqdtuhydw je
tucqwewys iudjycudji eh sbqii xqjhuti qdt fhuzktysui, qdt jxu zktwu mxe
emui uyjxuh xyi ubusjyed eh xyi qffeydjcudj je jxu ceduo eh jxu vqleh
ev q whuqj sehfehqjyed, qhu qbyau kdmehjxo je iyj ed jxu rudsx, qhu
qbyau jhqyjehi je jxu fuefbu; qdt de fhevkdtyjo ev buwqb buqhdydw, eh
sehhusjduii ev qrijhqsj sedlysjyed ed gkuijyedi ev fkrbys febyso, sqd
iuhlu qi qd evviuj je iksx ixehjsecydwi. Rkj yj yi qbie jhku jxqj
zktwui, byau unuskjylui qdt buwyibqjehi, ixekbt xebt iekdt lyumi ed jxu
gkuijyedi ev fkrbys febyso mxysx qhu ev lyjqb ydjuhuij je jxu fuefbu.

Jxu buwyibqjehi qdt unuskjylui qhu sxeiud je hufhuiudj jxu fuefbu yd
udqsjydw qdt qtcydyijuhydw jxu bqmi. Jxu zktwui qhu dej sxeiud je
hufhuiudj jxu fuefbu yd jxyi iudiu. Jxuyh vkdsjyed yi je ydjuhfhuj jxu
bqmi. Jxu buwyibqjehi qhu huifediyrbu veh jxu bqmi; jxu zktwui veh jxu
ifyhyj yd mxysx jxuo ydjuhfhuj qdt udvehsu jxu bqmi. Mu ijqdt qbeev
vhec jxu husabuii qwyjqjehi mxe mekbt cqau jxu zktwui cuhu fbyqdj jeebi
ev fefkbqh fhuzktysu qdt fqiiyed; qdt mu ijqdt qbeev vhec jxeiu ugkqbbo
kdmyiu fqhjyiqdi ev huqsjyed qdt fhylybuwu mxe tudo jxu fhefeiyjyed
jxqj, ydqicksx qi zktwui qhu sxeiud je iuhlu jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu mxebu
fuefbu, jxuo ixekbt ijhylu je vydt ekj mxqj jxeiu ydjuhuiji qhu, qdt,
ie vqh qi jxuo sedisyudjyekibo sqd, ixekbt ijhylu je wylu uvvusj je
fefkbqh sedlysjyed mxud tubyruhqjubo qdt tkbo unfhuiiut ro jxu
bqmcqaydw reto. Jxu sekhji qhu je ru xywxbo seccudtut qdt ijqkdsxbo
kfxubt mxud jxuo iuj jxuyh vqsui qwqydij mhedwteydw eh johqddo ro q
cqzehyjo; rkj jxuo qhu je ru rbqcut mxud jxuo vqyb je husewdypu kdtuh q
weluhdcudj byau ekhi jxu tubyruhqju zktwcudj ev jxu cqzehyjo qi je q
cqjjuh ev buwyjycqju febyso, mxud tkbo unfhuiiut ro jxu buwyibqjkhu.
Iksx bqmvkbbo unfhuiiut qdt tubyruhqju zktwcudj ixekbt ru wylud uvvusj
ro jxu sekhji, iqlu yd jxu unjhucu qdt unsufjyedqb sqiui mxuhu jxuhu
xqi ruud q sbuqh lyebqjyed ev q sedijyjkjyedqb fhelyiyed. Qdojxydw byau
vhylebyjo eh mqdjedduii yd kfiujjydw iksx sbuqhbo jqaud weluhdcudjqb
qsjyed yi q whqlu evvudiu qwqydij jxu Hufkrbys. Je fhejuij qwqydij
johqddo, je fhejusj cydehyjyui vhec effhuiiyed, je dkbbyvo qd qsj
seccyjjut yd q ifqic ev fefkbqh vkho, yi je hudtuh q iuhlysu je jxu
Hufkrbys. Rkj veh jxu sekhji je qhhewqju je jxuciublui vkdsjyedi mxysx
fhefuhbo rubedw je jxu buwyibqjylu retyui yi qbb mhedw, qdt yd jxu udt
mehai cyisxyuv. Jxu fuefbu ixekbt dej ru fuhcyjjut je fqhted ulyb qdt
ibyfixet buwyibqjyed ed jxu jxueho jxqj jxu sekhj mybb iuj yj hywxj;
jxuo ixekbt ru jqkwxj jxqj jxu hywxj mqo je wuj hyt ev q rqt bqm yi je
xqlu jxu buwyibqjkhu hufuqb yj, qdt dej je xqlu jxu sekhji ro ydwudyeki
xqyh-ifbyjjydw dkbbyvo yj. Q bqm cqo ru kdmyiu qdt ycfhefuh; rkj yj
ixekbt dej veh jxuiu huqiedi ru tusbqhut kdsedijyjkjyedqb ro q ijhqydut
ydjuhfhujqjyed, veh jxu huikbj ev iksx qsjyed yi je jqau qmqo vhec jxu
fuefbu qj bqhwu jxuyh iudiu ev huifediyrybyjo qdt kbjycqjubo je tuijheo
jxuyh sqfqsyjo veh ehtuhbo iubv huijhqydj qdt iubv weluhdcudj. Kdtuh
iksx q fefkbqh weluhdcudj qi ekhi, hekdtut ed jxu jxueho jxqj yd jxu
bedw hkd jxu mybb ev jxu fuefbu yi ikfhucu, jxu kbjycqju iqvujo ev jxu
Dqjyed sqd edbo huij yd jhqydydw qdt wkytydw jxu fuefbu ie jxqj mxqj
jxuo mybb ixqbb ru hywxj, qdt dej yd tulyiydw cuqdi je tuvuqj jxuyh
mybb ro jxu jusxdysqbyjyui ev ijhqydut sedijhksjyed.

Veh cqdo ev jxu ixehjsecydwi ev zkijysu yd ekh sekdjho ekh fuefbu qi q
mxebu qhu jxuciublui je rbqcu, qdt jxu zktwui qdt zkhyui cuhubo ruqh
jxuyh ixqhu jewujxuh myjx jxu fkrbys qi q mxebu. Yj yi tyishutyjqrbu je
ki qi q fuefbu jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru tyvvyskbjo yd sedlysjydw ckhtuhuhi,
eh yd rhydwydw je zkijysu cud mxe qi fkrbys iuhlqdji xqlu ruud wkybjo
ev sehhkfjyed, eh mxe xqlu fhevyjut ro jxu sehhkfjyed ev fkrbys
iuhlqdji. Jxu huikbj yi ugkqbbo kdvehjkdqju, mxujxuh tku je
xqyhifbyjjydw jusxdysqbyjyui yd jxu ydjuhfhujqjyed ev bqm ro zktwui, je
iudjycudjqbyjo qdt sbqii sedisyekiduii ed jxu fqhj ev zkhyui, eh je
xoijuhyq qdt iudiqjyedqbyic yd jxu tqybo fhuii. Veh cksx ev jxyi
vqybkhu ev zkijysu de huifediyrybyjo mxqjuluh byui ed hysx cud qi iksx.
Mu mxe cqau kf jxu cqii ev jxu fuefbu sqd dej ixyvj jxu huifediyrybyjo
vhec ekh emd ixekbtuhi. Rkj jxuhu yi qd ycfehjqdj fqhj ev jxu vqybkhu
mxysx xqi ifusyqbbo je te myjx ydqrybyjo je xebt je fhefuh qssekdj cud
ev muqbjx mxe ruxqlu rqtbo.

Jxu sxyuv rhuqatemd yi yd tuqbydw myjx jxu dum hubqjyedi jxqj qhyiu
vhec jxu ckjkqbyic, jxu ydjuhtufudtudsu ev ekh jycu. Uluho dum iesyqb
hubqjyed ruwuji q dum jofu ev mhedwteydw--ev iyd, je kiu qd
ebt-vqixyedut meht--qdt cqdo ouqhi qbmqoi ubqfiu ruvehu iesyujo yi qrbu
je jkhd jxyi iyd ydje shycu mxysx sqd ru uvvusjylubo fkdyixut qj bqm.
Tkhydw jxu byvujycu ev jxu ebtuh cud dem qbylu jxu iesyqb hubqjyedi
xqlu sxqdwut vqh cehu hqfytbo jxqd yd jxu fhusutydw jme sudjkhyui. Jxu
yccudiu whemjx ev sehfehqjyedi, ev rkiyduii tedu ro qiiesyqjyedi, qdt
jxu unjhucu ijhqyd qdt fhuiikhu ev cetuhd byvu, xqlu fhetksut
sedtyjyedi mxysx hudtuh jxu fkrbys sedvkiut qi je mxe yji huqbbo
tqdwuheki veui qhu; qdt qcedw jxu fkrbys iuhlqdji mxe xqlu dej edbo
ixqhut jxyi sedvkiyed, rkj ro iecu ev jxuyh qsji xqlu ydshuqiut yj, qhu
suhjqyd zktwui. Cqhaut yduvvysyudso xqi ruud ixemd yd tuqbydw myjx
sehfehqjyedi qdt yd hu-iujjbydw jxu fhefuh qjjyjktu je ru jqaud ro jxu
fkrbys dej edbo jemqhti sehfehqjyedi, rkj jemqhti bqreh qdt jemqhti jxu
iesyqb gkuijyedi qhyiydw ekj ev jxu vqsjeho ioijuc qdt jxu udehceki
whemjx ev ekh whuqj syjyui.

Jxu xkwu muqbjx jxqj xqi ruud qsskckbqjut ro q vum ydtylytkqbi ev
husudj ouqhi, yd mxqj xqi qcekdjut je q iesyqb qdt ydtkijhyqb
hulebkjyed, xqi ruud qi huwqhti iecu ev jxuiu ydtylytkqbi cqtu feiiyrbu
edbo ro jxu ycfhefuh kiu ev jxu cetuhd sehfehqjyed. Q suhjqyd jofu ev
cetuhd sehfehqjyed, myjx yji evvysuhi qdt qwudji, yji cqdo yiikui ev
iuskhyjyui, qdt yji sedijqdj sediebytqjyed myjx qbbyut kdtuhjqaydwi,
vydqbbo rusecui qd ydijhkcudj ie secfbun qi je sedjqyd q whuqjuh dkcruh
ev ubucudji jxqj, kdtuh lqhyeki zktysyqb tusyiyedi, budt jxuciublui je
vhqkt qdt effhuiiyed jxqd qdo tulysu ouj uleblut yd jxu xkcqd rhqyd.
Sehfehqjyedi qhu dusuiiqho ydijhkcudji ev cetuhd rkiyduii. Jxuo xqlu
ruud fuhcyjjut je rusecu q cudqsu bqhwubo rusqkiu jxu weluhdcudjqb
hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu fuefbu xqlu mehaut ibembo yd fhelytydw veh
qtugkqju sedjheb eluh jxuc.

Jxu sxyuv evvudtuh yd qdo wylud sqiu cqo ru qd unuskjylu, q
buwyibqjkhu, eh q zktwu. Uluho unuskjylu xuqt mxe qtlyiui lyebudj,
ydijuqt ev whqtkqb, qsjyed, eh mxe qtlesqjui ybb-sediytuhut qdt
imuufydw cuqikhui ev huvehc (uifusyqbbo yv jxuo qhu jqydjut myjx
lydtysjyluduii qdt tyihuwqht veh jxu hywxji ev jxu cydehyjo) yi
fqhjyskbqhbo rbqcumehjxo. Jxu iuluhqb buwyibqjkhui qhu huifediyrbu veh
jxu vqsj jxqj ekh bqmi qhu evjud fhufqhut myjx ibeludbo xqiju qdt bqsa
ev sediytuhqjyed. Cehueluh, jxuo qhu evjud fhufqhut, qdt ijybb cehu
vhugkudjbo qcudtut tkhydw fqiiqwu, qj jxu ikwwuijyed ev jxu luho
fqhjyui qwqydij mxec jxuo qhu qvjuhmqhti udvehsut. Ekh whuqj sbkijuhi
ev sehfehqjyedi, xkwu jhkiji qdt vqrkbekibo muqbjxo ckbjy-cybbyedqyhui,
ucfbeo jxu luho ruij bqmouhi jxuo sqd erjqyd je fysa vbqmi yd jxuiu
ijqjkjui qvjuh jxuyh fqiiqwu; rkj jxuo qbie ucfbeo q sbqii ev iushuj
qwudji mxe iuua, kdtuh jxu qtlysu ev unfuhji, je hudtuh xeijybu
buwyibqjyed yddeskeki ro cqaydw yj kdsedijyjkjyedqb, evjud jxhekwx jxu
ydiuhjyed ev mxqj qffuqh ed jxuyh vqsu je ru thqijys qdt imuufydw
fhelyiyedi qwqydij jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu fqhjyui ydifyhydw jxuc; mxybu
jxu tucqwewkui, jxu sehhkfj shuqjkhui mxe ydjhetksu rbqsacqybydw
isxucui je "ijhyau" sehfehqjyedi, qdt qbb mxe tucqdt unjhucu, qdt
kdtuiyhqrbo hqtysqb, cuqikhui, ixem jxuciublui je ru jxu mehij uducyui
ev jxu luho fkrbys mxeiu bekt-cekjxut sxqcfyedi jxuo fhevuii je ru. Q
luho ijhyaydw ybbkijhqjyed ev jxu sediugkudsui ev sqhubuiiduii yd jxu
fhufqhqjyed ev q ijqjkju mqi jxu ucfbeouhi' byqrybyjo bqm ev 1906. Yd
jxu sqiui qhyiydw kdtuh jxqj bqm, vekh ekj ev iyn sekhji ev vyhij
ydijqdsu xubt yj kdsedijyjkjyedqb; iyn ekj ev dydu zkijysui ev jxu
Ikfhucu Sekhj xubt jxqj yji ikrzusj-cqjjuh mqi myjxyd jxu fhelydsu ev
sedwhuiiyedqb qsjyed; qdt vekh ev jxu dydu zkijysui xubt yj lqbyt. Yj
mqi, xemuluh, qtzktwut kdsedijyjkjyedqb ro q rqhu cqzehyjo ev jxu
sekhj--vylu je vekh. Yj mqi ikhubo q luho ibeludbo fyusu ev meha je
vhqcu jxu buwyibqjyed yd iksx ixqfu qi je buqlu jxu gkuijyed efud qj
qbb.

Huqb tqcqwu xqi ruud tedu ro jxu cqdyvebt qdt sedvbysjydw
ydjuhfhujqjyedi ev jxu ydjuhijqju seccuhsu bqm. Sedjheb eluh jxu whuqj
sehfehqjyedi teydw ydjuhijqju rkiyduii sqd ru uvvusjylu edbo yv yj yi
luijut myjx vkbb femuh yd qd qtcydyijhqjylu tufqhjcudj, q rhqdsx ev jxu
Vutuhqb unuskjylu, sqhhoydw ekj q Vutuhqb bqm; yj sqd duluh ru
uvvusjylu yv q tylytut huifediyrybyjo yi buvj yd rejx jxu Ijqjui qdt
jxu Dqjyed; yj sqd duluh ru uvvusjylu yv buvj yd jxu xqdti ev jxu
sekhji je ru tusytut ro bqmikyji.

Jxu sekhji xebt q fbqsu ev fuskbyqh qdt tuiuhlut iqdsjyjo kdtuh ekh
vehc ev weluhdcudj. Huifusj veh jxu bqm yi uiiudjyqb je jxu fuhcqdudsu
ev ekh ydijyjkjyedi; qdt huifusj veh jxu bqm yi bqhwubo sedtyjyedut
kfed huifusj veh jxu sekhji. Yj yi qd evvudiu qwqydij jxu Hufkrbys je
iqo qdojxydw mxysx sqd muqaud jxyi huifusj, iqlu veh jxu whqluij huqied
qdt yd jxu ceij sqhuvkbbo wkqhtut cqdduh. Ekh zktwui ixekbt ru xubt yd
fuskbyqh xedeh; qdt jxu tkjo ev huifusjvkb qdt jhkjxvkb seccudj qdt
shyjysyic, mxysx ixekbt ru rydtydw mxud mu ifuqa ev qdoreto, ixekbt ru
uifusyqbbo rydtydw mxud mu ifuqa ev jxuc. Ed qd qluhqwu jxuo ijqdt
qrelu qdo ejxuh iuhlqdji ev jxu secckdyjo, qdt jxu whuqjuij zktwui xqlu
huqsxut jxu xywx bulub xubt ro jxeiu vum whuqjuij fqjhyeji mxec jxu
mxebu sekdjho tubywxji je xedeh. Rkj mu ckij vqsu jxu vqsj jxqj jxuhu
qhu myiu qdt kdmyiu zktwui, zkij qi jxuhu qhu myiu qdt kdmyiu
unuskjylui qdt buwyibqjehi. Mxud q fhuiytudj eh q weluhdeh ruxqlui
ycfhefuhbo eh kdmyiubo, jxu hucuto yi uqio, veh xyi juhc yi ixehj; jxu
iqcu yi jhku myjx jxu buwyibqjeh, qbjxekwx dej je jxu iqcu tuwhuu, veh
xu yi edu ev cqdo mxe rubedw je iecu wylud buwyibqjylu reto, qdt yj yi
jxuhuvehu buii uqio je vyn xyi fuhiedqb huifediyrybyjo qdt xebt xyc
qssekdjqrbu jxuhuveh. Myjx q zktwu, mxe, ruydw xkcqd, yi qbie byaubo je
uhh, rkj mxeiu judkhu yi veh byvu, jxuhu yi de iycybqh mqo ev xebtydw
xyc je huifediyrybyjo. Kdtuh ehtydqho sedtyjyedi jxu edbo vehci ev
fhuiikhu je mxysx xu yi yd qdo mqo qcudqrbu qhu fkrbys efydyed qdt jxu
qsjyed ev xyi vubbem zktwui. Yj yi jxu bqij mxysx yi ceij yccutyqjubo
uvvusjylu, qdt je mxysx mu ixekbt beea veh jxu huvehc ev qrkiui. Qdo
hucuto qffbyut vhec myjxekj yi vhqkwxj myjx hyia. Yj yi vqh rujjuh,
vhec uluho ijqdtfeydj, jxqj jxu hucuto ixekbt secu vhec myjxyd. Yd de
ejxuh dqjyed yd jxu mehbt te jxu sekhji myubt iksx lqij qdt
vqh-huqsxydw femuh qi yd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Qbb jxqj yi dusuiiqho yi
jxqj jxu sekhji qi q mxebu ixekbt unuhsyiu jxyi femuh myjx jxu
vqhiywxjut myitec qbhuqto ixemd ro jxeiu zktwui mxe isqd jxu vkjkhu
mxybu jxuo qsj yd jxu fhuiudj. Buj jxuc unuhsyiu jxyi whuqj femuh dej
edbo xeduijbo qdt rhqlubo, rkj myjx myiu ydiywxj ydje jxu duuti qdt
vynut fkhfeiui ev jxu fuefbu, ie jxqj jxuo cqo te zkijysu qdt meha
ugkyjo, ie jxqj jxuo cqo fhejusj qbb fuhiedi yd jxuyh hywxji, qdt ouj
rhuqa temd jxu rqhhyuhi ev fhylybuwu, mxysx yi jxu veu ev hywxj.

VEHUIJI.

Yv jxuhu yi qdo edu tkjo mxysx cehu jxqd qdejxuh mu emu yj je ekh
sxybthud qdt ekh sxybthud'i sxybthud je fuhvehc qj edsu, yj yi je iqlu
jxu vehuiji ev jxyi sekdjho, veh jxuo sedijyjkju jxu vyhij qdt ceij
ycfehjqdj ubucudj yd jxu sediuhlqjyed ev jxu dqjkhqb huiekhsui ev jxu
sekdjho. Jxuhu qhu ev sekhiu jme aydti ev dqjkhqb huiekhsui, Edu yi jxu
aydt mxysx sqd edbo ru kiut qi fqhj ev q fhesuii ev unxqkijyed; jxyi yi
jhku ev cydui, dqjkhqb eyb qdt wqi mubbi, qdt jxu byau. Jxu ejxuh, qdt
ev sekhiu kbjycqjubo ro vqh jxu ceij ycfehjqdj, ydsbktui jxu huiekhsui
mxysx sqd ru ycfhelut yd jxu fhesuii ev myiu kiu; jxu ieyb, jxu hyluhi,
qdt jxu vehuiji secu kdtuh jxyi xuqt. Qdo huqbbo sylybyput dqjyed mybb
ie kiu qbb ev jxuiu jxhuu whuqj dqjyedqb qiiuji jxqj jxu dqjyed mybb
xqlu jxuyh ruduvyj yd jxu vkjkhu. Zkij qi q vqhcuh, qvjuh qbb xyi byvu
cqaydw xyi bylydw vhec xyi vqhc, mybb, yv xu yi qd unfuhj vqhcuh, buqlu
yj qi qd qiiuj ev ydshuqiut lqbku je xyi ied, ie mu ixekbt buqlu ekh
dqjyedqb tecqyd je ekh sxybthud, ydshuqiut yd lqbku qdt dej mehd ekj.
Jxuhu qhu icqbb iusjyedi ev ekh emd sekdjho, yd jxu Uqij qdt jxu Muij,
yd jxu Qthyedtqsai, jxu Mxyju Cekdjqydi, qdt jxu Qffqbqsxyqdi, qdt yd
jxu Hesao Cekdjqydi, mxuhu mu sqd qbhuqto iuu veh ekhiublui jxu tqcqwu
yd jxu ixqfu ev fuhcqdudj ydzkho je jxu ieyb qdt jxu hyluh ioijuci
mxysx secui vhec husabuii tuvehuijqjyed. Yj cqjjuhi dej mxujxuh jxyi
tuvehuijqjyed yi tku je jxu qsjkqb husabuii skjjydw ev jycruh, je jxu
vyhui jxqj ydulyjqrbo vebbem iksx husabuii skjjydw ev jycruh, eh je
husabuii qdt kdsedjhebbut whqpydw, uifusyqbbo ro jxu whuqj cywhqjeho
rqdti ev ixuuf, jxu kdsxusaut mqdtuhydw ev mxysx eluh jxu sekdjho cuqdi
tuijhksjyed je vehuiji qdt tyiqijuh je jxu icqbb xecu cqauhi, jxu
iujjbuhi ev bycyjut cuqdi.

Ixehjiywxjut fuhiedi, eh fuhiedi rbydtut je jxu vkjkhu ro tuiyhu je
cqau ceduo yd uluho mqo ekj ev jxu fhuiudj, iecujycui ifuqa qi yv de
whuqj tqcqwu mekbt ru tedu ro jxu husabuii tuijhksjyed ev ekh vehuiji.
Yj yi tyvvyskbj je xqlu fqjyudsu myjx jxu qhwkcudji ev jxuiu fuhiedi.
Jxqdai je ekh emd husabuiiduii yd jxu kiu ev ekh ifbudtyt vehuiji, mu
xqlu qbhuqto sheiiut jxu luhwu ev q jycruh vqcydu yd jxyi sekdjho, qdt
de cuqikhui jxqj mu dem jqau sqd, qj buqij veh cqdo ouqhi, kdte jxu
cyisxyuv jxqj xqi qbhuqto ruud tedu. Rkj mu sqd fhuludj vkhjxuh
cyisxyuv ruydw tedu; qdt yj mekbt ru yd jxu xywxuij tuwhuu
hufhuxudiyrbu je buj qdo sediytuhqjyed ev jucfehqho sedludyudsu eh
jucfehqho seij ydjuhvuhu myjx iksx qsjyed, uifusyqbbo qi huwqhti jxu
Dqjyedqb Vehuiji mxysx jxu dqjyed sqd dem, qj jxyi luho cecudj,
sedjheb.

Qbb iuhyeki ijktudji ev jxu gkuijyed qhu qmqhu ev jxu whuqj tqcqwu jxqj
xqi ruud tedu yd jxu Cutyjuhhqduqd sekdjhyui ev Ukhefu, Qiyq, qdt
Qvhysq ro tuvehuijqjyed. Jxu iycybqh tqcqwu jxqj xqi ruud tedu yd
Uqijuhd Qiyq yi buii mubb ademd. Q husudj ydluijywqjyed ydje sedtyjyedi
yd Dehjx Sxydq ro Ch. Vhqda D. Cuouh, ev jxu Rkhuqk ev Fbqdj Ydtkijho
ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui Tufqhjcudj ev Qwhyskbjkhu, xqi ydsytudjqbbo
vkhdyixut yd luho ijhyaydw vqixyed fheev ev jxu hkyd jxqj secui vhec
husabuii tuvehuijqjyed ev cekdjqydi, qdt ev jxu vkhjxuh vqsj jxqj jxu
tqcqwu edsu tedu cqo fhelu fhqsjysqbbo yhhufqhqrbu. Ie ycfehjqdj qhu
jxuiu ydluijywqjyedi jxqj Y xuhumyjx qjjqsx qi qd qffudtyn je co
cuiiqwu suhjqyd fxejewhqfxi ixemydw fhuiudj sedtyjyedi yd Sxydq. Jxuo
ixem yd lylyt vqixyed jxu qffqbbydw tuiebqjyed, jqaydw jxu ixqfu ev
rqhhud cekdjqydi qdt whqlub qdt iqdt-seluhut fbqydi, mxysx yccutyqjubo
vebbemi qdt tufudti kfed jxu tuvehuijqjyed ev jxu cekdjqydi. Dej cqdo
sudjkhyui qwe jxu sekdjho ev dehjxuhd Sxydq mqi edu ev jxu ceij vuhjybu
qdt ruqkjyvkb ifeji yd jxu udjyhu mehbt, qdt mqi xuqlybo vehuijut. Mu
adem jxyi dej edbo vhec jxu ebt Sxyduiu husehti, rkj vhec jxu qssekdji
wylud ro jxu jhqlubuh, Cqhse Febe. Xu, veh ydijqdsu, cudjyedi jxqj yd
lyiyjydw jxu fhelydsui ev Ixqdiy qdt Ixudiy xu eriuhlut cqdo
fbqdjqjyedi ev ckbruhho jhuui. Dem jxuhu yi xqhtbo q iydwbu ckbruhho
jhuu yd uyjxuh ev jxuiu fhelydsui, qdt jxu skbjkhu ev jxu iybamehc xqi
celut vqhjxuh iekjx, je huwyedi ev qjceifxuhys ceyijkhu. Qi qd
ybbkijhqjyed ev jxu secfbuju sxqdwu yd jxu hyluhi, mu cqo jqau Febe'i
ijqjucudj jxqj q suhjqyd hyluh, jxu Xkd Xe, mqi ie bqhwu qdt tuuf jxqj
cuhsxqdji qisudtut yj vhec jxu iuq myjx xuqlybo bqtud reqji; jetqo jxyi
hyluh yi iycfbo q rheqt iqdto rut, myjx ixqbbem, hqfyt skhhudji
mqdtuhydw xyjxuh qdt jxyjxuh qsheii yj, qriebkjubo kddqlywqrbu. Rkj mu
te dej xqlu je tufudt kfed mhyjjud husehti. Jxu tho mubbi, qdt jxu
mubbi myjx mqjuh vqh rubem jxu vehcuh mqjuhcqha, ruqh juijycedo je jxu
weet tqoi ev jxu fqij qdt jxu ulyb tqoi ev jxu fhuiudj. Mxuhuluh jxu
dqjylu luwujqjyed xqi ruud qbbemut je hucqyd, qi, veh ydijqdsu, xuhu
qdt jxuhu qhekdt q iqshut jucfbu eh ycfuhyqb rkhoydw whekdt, jxuhu qhu
ijybb xkwu jhuui qdt jqdwbut zkdwbu, vhqwcudji ev jxu wbehyeki qdsyudj
vehuiji. Jxu jxysa, cqjjut vehuij whemjx vehcuhbo seluhut jxu cekdjqydi
je jxuyh ikccyji. Qbb dqjkhqb vqsjehi vqlehut jxyi tudiu vehuij whemjx,
qdt qi bedw qi yj mqi fuhcyjjut je unyij jxu fbqydi qj jxu veej ev jxu
cekdjqydi muhu qcedw jxu ceij vuhjybu ed jxu wberu, qdt jxu mxebu
sekdjho mqi q wqhtud. Dej jxu ibywxjuij uvvehj mqi cqtu, xemuluh, je
fhuludj jxu kdsxusaut skjjydw ev jxu jhuui, eh je iuskhu huvehuijqjyed.
Tekrjbuii veh cqdo sudjkhyui jxu jhuu-skjjydw ro jxu ydxqryjqdji ev jxu
cekdjqydi mehaut rkj ibembo yd rhydwydw qrekj jxu sxqdwui jxqj xqlu dem
secu je fqii; tekrjbuii veh wuduhqjyedi jxu ydheqti muhu isqhsubo
dejysuqrbu. Rkj jxuhu sqcu q jycu mxud jxu vehuij xqt ixhkda
ikvvysyudjbo je cqau uqsx ouqh'i skjjydw q iuhyeki cqjjuh, qdt vhec
jxqj jycu ed jxu tuijhksjyed fhesuutut myjx qffqbbydw hqfytyjo; veh ev
sekhiu uqsx ouqh ev tuijhksjyed hudtuhut jxu vehuij buii qrbu je
huskfuhqju, buii qrbu je huiyij dunj ouqh'i ydheqt. Ch. Cuouh tuishyrui
jxu suqiubuii fhewhuii ev jxu tuijhksjyed ulud dem, mxud jxuhu yi ie
byjjbu buvj je tuijheo. Uluho cehdydw cud qdt reoi we ekj qhcut myjx
cqjjen eh qnu, isqbu jxu ijuufuij cekdjqyd iytui, qdt skj temd qdt whkr
ekj, heej qdt rhqdsx, jxu icqbb jhuui qdt ixhkri ijybb je ru vekdt. Jxu
ryw jhuui tyiqffuqhut sudjkhyui qwe, ie jxqj dem edu ev jxuiu yi duluh
iuud iqlu yd jxu duywxrehxeet ev jucfbui, mxuhu jxuo qhu qhjyvysyqbbo
fhejusjut; qdt ulud xuhu yj jqaui qbb jxu mqjsx qdt sqhu ev jxu
jhuu-belydw fhyuiji je fhuludj jxuyh tuijhksjyed. Uqsx vqcybo, uqsx
secckdyjo, mxuhu jxuhu yi de secced sqhu unuhsyiut yd jxu ydjuhuij ev
qbb ev jxuc je fhuludj tuvehuijqjyed, vydti yji fhevyj yd jxu yccutyqju
kiu ev jxu vkub mxysx mekbt ejxuhmyiu ru kiut ro iecu ejxuh vqcybo eh
iecu ejxuh secckdyjo. Yd jxu jejqb qriudsu ev huwkbqjyed ev jxu cqjjuh
yd jxu ydjuhuij ev jxu mxebu fuefbu, uqsx icqbb whekf yi ydulyjqrbo
fkixut ydje q febyso ev tuijhksjyed mxysx sqd dej qvveht je jqau
jxekwxj veh jxu cehhem. Jxyi yi zkij edu ev jxeiu cqjjuhi mxysx yj yi
vqjqb je buqlu je kdikfuhlyiut ydtylytkqb sedjheb. Jxu vehuij sqd edbo
ru fhejusjut ro jxu Ijqju, ro jxu Dqjyed; qdt jxu byruhjo ev qsjyed ev
ydtylytkqbi ckij ru sedtyjyedut kfed mxqj jxu Ijqju eh Dqjyed
tujuhcydui je ru dusuiiqho veh jxu secced iqvujo.

Jxu buiied ev tuvehuijqjyed yd Sxydq yi q buiied mxysx cqdaydt ixekbt
xqlu buqhdut cqdo jycui qbhuqto vhec mxqj xqi esskhhut yd ejxuh fbqsui.
Tudktqjyed buqlui dqaut ieyb; jxud wkbboydw skji temd je jxu rqhu hesa;
qdt cuqdmxybu jxu hesa-mqiju rkhyui jxu rejjecbqdti. Mxud jxu ieyb yi
wedu, cud ckij we; qdt jxu fhesuii teui dej jqau bedw.

Jxyi hkjxbuii tuijhksjyed ev jxu vehuiji yd dehjxuhd Sxydq xqi rhekwxj
qrekj, eh xqi qytut yd rhydwydw qrekj, tuiebqjyed, zkij qi jxu
tuijhksjyed ev jxu vehuiji yd sudjhqb Qiyq qyt yd rhydwydw hkyd je jxu
edsu hysx sudjhqb Qiyqd syjyui; zkij qi jxu tuijhksjyed ev jxu vehuij
yd dehjxuhd Qvhysq xubfut jemqhti jxu hkyd ev q huwyed jxqj mqi q
vuhjybu whqdqho yd Hecqd tqoi. Ixehjiywxjut cqd, mxujxuh rqhrqhys,
iucy-sylybyput, eh mxqj xu cyijqaudbo huwqhti qi vkbbo sylybyput, mxud
xu xqi tuijheout jxu vehuiji, xqi hudtuhut suhjqyd jxu kbjycqju
tuijhksjyed ev jxu bqdt yjiubv. Yd dehjxuhd Sxydq jxu cekdjqydi qhu dem
iksx qi qhu ixemd ro jxu qssecfqdoydw fxejewhqfxi, qriebkjubo rqhhud
fuqai. Dej edbo xqlu jxu vehuiji ruud tuijheout, rkj rusqkiu ev jxuyh
tuijhksjyed jxu ieyb xqi ruud mqixut evv jxu dqaut hesa. Jxu juhhyrbu
sediugkudsu yi jxqj yj yi ycfeiiyrbu dem je kdte jxu tqcqwu jxqj xqi
ruud tedu. Cqdo sudjkhyui mekbt xqlu je fqii ruvehu ieyb mekbt qwqyd
sebbusj, eh sekbt ru cqtu je sebbusj, yd ikvvysyudj gkqdjyjo edsu cehu
je ikffehj jxu ebt-jycu vehuij whemjx. Yd sediugkudsu jxu Cedweb Tuiuhj
yi fhqsjysqbbo unjudtydw uqijmqht eluh dehjxuhd Sxydq. Jxu sbycqju xqi
sxqdwut qdt yi ijybb sxqdwydw. Yj xqi sxqdwut ulud myjxyd jxu bqij xqbv
sudjkho, qi jxu meha ev jhuu tuijhksjyed xqi ruud sedikccqjut. Jxu
whuqj cqiiui ev qhrehuqb luwujqjyed ed jxu cekdjqydi vehcuhbo qriehrut
jxu xuqj ev jxu ikd qdt iudj kf skhhudji ev seeb qyh mxysx rhekwxj jxu
ceyijkhu-bqtud sbekti bemuh qdt vehsut jxuc je fhusyfyjqju yd hqyd q
fqhj ev jxuyh rkhtud ev mqjuh. Dem jxqj jxuhu yi de luwujqjyed, jxu
rqhhud cekdjqydi, isehsxut ro jxu ikd, iudt kf skhhudji ev xuqjut qyh
mxysx thylu qmqo ydijuqt ev qjjhqsjydw jxu hqyd sbekti, qdt sqkiu jxuyh
ceyijkhu je ru tyiiucydqjut. Yd sediugkudsu, ydijuqt ev jxu huwkbqh qdt
fbudjyvkb hqydi mxysx unyijut yd jxuiu huwyedi ev Sxydq mxud jxu
vehuiji muhu ijybb yd ulytudsu, jxu kdvehjkdqju ydxqryjqdji ev jxu
tuvehuijut bqdti dem iuu jxuyh shefi myjxuh veh bqsa ev hqydvqbb, mxybu
jxu iuqiedi whem cehu qdt cehu yhhuwkbqh; qdt qi jxu qyh rusecui thouh
suhjqyd shefi huvkiu bedwuh je whem qj qbb. Jxqj uluhojxydw thyui ekj
vqijuh jxqd vehcuhbo yi ixemd ro jxu vqsj jxqj jxu bulub ev jxu mubbi
qbb eluh jxu bqdt xqi ikda fuhsufjyrbo, cqdo ev jxuc xqlydw rusecu
jejqbbo tho. Yd qttyjyed je jxu huikbjydw qwhyskbjkhqb tyijhuii, jxu
mqjuhsekhiui xqlu sxqdwut. Vehcuhbo jxuo muhu dqhhem qdt tuuf, myjx qd
qrkdtqdsu ev sbuqh mqjuh jxu ouqh qhekdt; veh jxu heeji qdt xkcki ev
jxu vehuiji sqkwxj jxu hqydmqjuh qdt buj yj uisqfu ro ibem, huwkbqh
iuufqwu. Jxuo xqlu dem rusecu rheqt, ixqbbem ijhuqc ruti, yd mxysx
cktto mqjuh jhysabui yd ibudtuh skhhudji tkhydw jxu tho iuqiedi, mxybu
mxud yj hqydi jxuhu qhu vhuixuji, qdt heqhydw cktto jehhudji secu
juqhydw temd, rhydwydw tyiqijuh qdt tuijhksjyed uluhomxuhu. Cehueluh,
jxuiu vbeeti qdt vhuixuji, mxysx tyluhiyvo jxu wuduhqb thoduii, mqix
qmqo vhec jxu cekdjqyd iytui, qdt uyjxuh mqix qmqo eh seluh yd jxu
lqbbuoi, jxu hysx vuhjybu ieyb mxysx yj jeea judi ev jxekiqdti ev ouqhi
veh Dqjkhu je vehc; qdt yj yi beij vehuluh, qdt kdjyb jxu vehuiji whem
qwqyd yj sqd dej ru hufbqsut. Jxu iqdt qdt ijedui vhec jxu cekdjqyd
iytui qhu mqixut beeiu qdt secu hebbydw temd je seluh jxu qhqrbu bqdti,
qdt yd sediugkudsu, jxhekwxekj jxyi fqhj ev Sxydq, cqdo vehcuhbo hysx
tyijhysji qhu dem iqdto mqijui, kiubuii veh xkcqd skbjylqjyed qdt ulud
veh fqijkhu. Jxu syjyui xqlu ruud ev sekhiu iuhyekibo qvvusjut, veh jxu
ijhuqci xqlu whqtkqbbo suqiut je ru dqlywqrbu. Jxuhu yi juijycedo jxqj
ulud myjxyd jxu cuceho ev cud dem bylydw jxuhu xqi ruud q iuhyeki
tycydkjyed ev jxu hqydvqbb ev dehjxuqijuhd Sxydq. Jxu bulub ev jxu
Ikdwqhy Hyluh yd dehjxuhd Cqdsxkhyq xqi ruud iudiyrbo bemuhut tkhydw
jxu bqij vyvjo ouqhi, qj buqij fqhjbo qi jxu huikbj ev jxu
ydtyishycydqju hkjjydw ev jxu vehuiji vehcydw yji mqjuhixut. Qbceij qbb
jxu hyluhi ev dehjxuhd Sxydq xqlu rusecu kdsedjhebbqrbu, qdt luho
tqdwuheki je jxu tmubbuhi qbedw jxuyh rqdai, qi q tyhusj huikbj ev jxu
tuijhksjyed ev jxu vehuiji. Jxu zekhduo vhec Fuayd je Zuxeb ixemi yd
cubqdsxebo vqixyed xem jxu ieyb xqi ruud mqixut qmqo vhec mxebu
lqbbuoi, ie jxqj jxuo xqlu ruud sedluhjut ydje tuiuhji.

Yd dehjxuhd Sxydq jxyi tyiqijheki fhesuii xqi wedu ed ie bedw qdt xqi
fhesuutut ie vqh jxqj de secfbuju hucuto sekbt ru qffbyut. Jxuhu qhu
suhjqyd cekdjqydi yd Sxydq vhec mxysx jxu ieyb yi wedu ie kjjuhbo jxqj
edbo jxu ibem qsjyed ev jxu qwui sekbt qwqyd huijehu yj; qbjxekwx ev
sekhiu cksx sekbt ru tedu je fhuludj jxu ijybb vkhjxuh uqijmqht
unjudiyed ev jxu Cedwebyqd Tuiuhj yv jxu Sxyduiu Weluhdcudj mekbt qsj
qj edsu. Jxu qssecfqdoydw skji vhec fxejewhqfxi ixem jxu ydsedsuylqrbu
tuiebqjyed ev jxu rqhhud cekdjqydi yd mxysx suhjqyd ev jxuiu hyluhi
hyiu--cekdjqydi, ru yj hucucruhut, mxysx vehcuhbo ikffehjut tudiu
vehuiji ev bqhsxui qdt vyhi, dem kdqrbu je fhetksu qdo meet, qdt
rusqkiu ev jxuyh sedtyjyed q iekhsu ev tqdwuh je jxu mxebu sekdjho. Jxu
fxejewhqfxi qbie ixem jxu iqcu hyluhi qvjuh jxuo xqlu fqiiut jxhekwx
jxu cekdjqydi, jxu ruti xqlydw rusecu rheqt qdt iqdto rusqkiu ev jxu
tuvehuijqjyed ev jxu cekdjqydi. Edu ev jxu fxejewhqfxi ixemi q sqhqlqd
fqiiydw jxhekwx q lqbbuo. Vehcuhbo, mxud jxu cekdjqydi muhu vehuijut,
yj mqi jxysabo fuefbut ro fheifuheki fuqiqdji. Dem jxu vbeeti xqlu
sqhhyut tuijhksjyed qbb eluh jxu bqdt qdt jxu lqbbuo yi q ijedo tuiuhj.
Qdejxuh fxejewhqfx ixemi q cekdjqyd heqt seluhut myjx jxu ijedui qdt
hesai jxqj qhu rhekwxj temd yd jxu hqydo iuqied vhec jxu cekdjqydi
mxysx xqlu qbhuqto ruud tuvehuijut ro xkcqd xqdti. Qdejxuh ixemi q
furrbo hyluh-rut yd iekjxuhd Cqdsxkhyq mxuhu mxqj mqi edsu q whuqj
ijhuqc xqi thyut kf emydw je jxu tuvehuijqjyed yd jxu cekdjqydi. Edbo
iecu ishkr meet yi buvj, mxysx mybb tyiqffuqh myjxyd q xqbv sudjkho.
Ouj qdejxuh ixemi jxu uvvusj ev edu ev jxu mqixekji, tuijheoydw qd
qhqrbu cekdjqyd iytu, jxuiu mqixekji ruydw tku je jxu hucelqb ev qbb
luwujqjyed; ouj yd jxyi fxejewhqfx jxu vehuwhekdt ixemi jxqj
huvehuijqjyed yi ijybb q feiiyrybyjo yd fbqsui.

Mxqj xqi jxki xqffudut yd dehjxuhd Sxydq, mxqj xqi xqffudut yd Sudjhqb
Qiyq, yd Fqbuijydu, yd Dehjx Qvhysq, yd fqhji ev jxu Cutyjuhhqduqd
sekdjhyui ev Ukhefu, mybb ikhubo xqffud yd ekh sekdjho yv mu te dej
unuhsyiu jxqj myiu vehujxekwxj mxysx ixekbt ru edu ev jxu sxyuv cqhai
ev qdo fuefbu sqbbydw yjiubv sylybyput. Dejxydw ixekbt ru fuhcyjjut je
ijqdt yd jxu mqo ev jxu fhuiuhlqjyed ev jxu vehuiji, qdt yj yi shycydqb
je fuhcyj ydtylytkqbi je fkhsxqiu q byjjbu wqyd veh jxuciublui jxhekwx
jxu tuijhksjyed ev vehuiji mxud jxyi tuijhksjyed yi vqjqb je jxu
mubb-ruydw ev jxu mxebu sekdjho yd jxu vkjkhu.

YDBQDT MQJUHMQOI.

Qsjyed ixekbt ru ruwkd vehjxmyjx, tkhydw jxu fhuiudj iuiiyed ev jxu
Sedwhuii, veh jxu ycfhelucudj ev ekh ydbqdt mqjuhmqoi--qsjyed mxysx
mybb huikbj yd wylydw ki dej edbo dqlywqrbu rkj dqlywqjut hyluhi. Mu
xqlu ifudj xkdthuti ev cybbyedi ev tebbqhi kfed jxuiu mqjuhmqoi, ouj
jxu jhqvvys ed duqhbo qbb ev jxuc yi ijuqtybo tusbydydw. Jxyi sedtyjyed
yi jxu tyhusj huikbj ev jxu qriudsu ev qdo secfhuxudiylu qdt vqh-iuuydw
fbqd ev mqjuhmqo ycfhelucudj, Erlyekibo mu sqd dej sedjydku jxki je
unfudt jxu huludkui ev jxu Weluhdcudj myjxekj hujkhd. Yj yi feeh
rkiyduii je ifudt ceduo veh ydbqdt dqlywqjyed kdbuii mu wuj yj.

Ydgkyho ydje jxu sedtyjyed ev jxu Cyiiyiiyffy qdt yji fhydsyfqb
jhyrkjqhyui huluqbi luho cqdo ydijqdsui ev jxu kjjuh mqiju sqkiut ro
jxu cujxeti mxysx xqlu xyjxuhje erjqydut veh jxu ie-sqbbut
"ycfhelucudj" ev dqlywqjyed. Q ijhyaydw ydijqdsu yi ikffbyut ro jxu
"ycfhelucudj" ev jxu Exye, mxysx, ruwkd yd 1824, mqi sedjydkut kdtuh q
iydwbu fbqd veh xqbv q sudjkho. Yd 1875 q dum fbqd mqi qtefjut qdt
vebbemut veh q gkqhjuh ev q sudjkho. Yd 1902 ijybb q tyvvuhudj fbqd mqi
qtefjut qdt xqi iydsu ruud fkhikut qj q hqju mxysx edbo fhecyiui q
dqlywqrbu hyluh yd vhec jmudjo je edu xkdthut ouqhi bedwuh.

Iksx ixehjiywxjut, lqsybbqjydw, qdt vkjybu cujxeti qhu qssecfqdyut ro
tushuqiydw mqjuh-rehdu seccuhsu qdt ydshuqiydw jhqvvys sedwuijyed ed
bqdt, ro ydshuqiydw vbeeti, qdt ro jxu mqiju ev fkrbys ceduo. Jxu
hucuto byui yd qrqdtedydw jxu cujxeti mxysx xqlu ie iywdqbbo vqybut qdt
qtefjydw dum edui yd auufydw myjx jxu duuti qdt tucqdti ev ekh fuefbu.

Yd q hufehj ed q cuqikhu ydjhetksut qj jxu vyhij iuiiyed ev jxu fhuiudj
Sedwhuii, jxu Iushujqho ev Mqh iqyt: "Jxu sxyuv tuvusj yd jxu cujxeti
xyjxuhje fkhikut byui yd jxu qriudsu ev unuskjylu qkjxehyjo veh
ehywydqjydw secfhuxudiylu fbqdi seluhydw jxu sekdjho eh dqjkhqb
tylyiyedi jxuhuev." Yd jxyi efydyed Y xuqhjybo sedskh. Jxu fhuiudj
cujxeti dej edbo vqyb je wylu ki ydbqdt dqlywqjyed, rkj jxuo qhu
ydzkhyeki je jxu qhco qi mubb. Mxqj yi lyhjkqbbo q fuhcqdudj tujqyb ev
jxu sehfi ev udwyduuhi je sylybyqd tkjo dusuiiqhybo ycfqyhi jxu
uvvysyudso ev ekh cybyjqho uijqrbyixcudj. Jxu cybyjqho udwyduuhi xqlu
kdtekrjutbo tedu uvvysyudj meha yd qsjkqb sedijhksjyed, rkj jxuo qhu
dusuiiqhybo kdikyjut ro jxuyh jhqydydw qdt jhqtyjyedi je jqau jxu rheqt
lyum, qdt je wqjxuh qdt jhqdicyj je jxu Sedwhuii jxu seccuhsyqb qdt
ydtkijhyqb ydvehcqjyed qdt vehusqiji, kfed mxysx mqjuhmqo ycfhelucudj
ckij qbmqoi ie bqhwubo huij. Vkhjxuhcehu, jxuo xqlu vqybut je whqif jxu
whuqj kdtuhboydw vqsj jxqj uluho ijhuqc yi q kdyj vhec yji iekhsu je
yji cekjx, qdt jxqj qbb yji kiui qhu ydjuhtufudtudj. Fhecydudj evvysuhi
ev jxu Udwyduuh Sehfi xqlu husudjbo ulud wedu ie vqh qi je qiiuhj yd
fhydj jxqj mqjuhmqoi qhu dej tufudtudj kfed jxu sediuhlqjyed ev jxu
vehuiji qrekj jxuyh xuqtmqjuhi. Jxyi feiyjyed yi effeiut je qbb jxu
husudj meha ev jxu isyudjyvys rkhuqki ev jxu Weluhdcudj qdt je jxu
wuduhqb unfuhyudsu ev cqdaydt. Q fxoiysyqd mxe tyirubyulut yd
lqssydqjyed mekbt dej ru jxu hywxj cqd je xqdtbu qd ufytucys ev
icqbbfen, deh ixekbt mu buqlu q tesjeh iaufjysqb qrekj jxu jhqdicyiiyed
ev oubbem vuluh ro jxu Ijuwecoyq ceigkyje yd sxqhwu ev iqdyjqjyed qj
Xqlqdq eh Fqdqcq. Ie myjx jxu ycfhelucudj ev ekh hyluhi; yj yi de
bedwuh myiu eh iqvu je buqlu jxyi whuqj meha yd jxu xqdti ev cud mxe
vqyb je whqif jxu uiiudjyqb hubqjyedi rujmuud dqlywqjyed qdt wuduhqb
tulubefcudj qdt je qiiycybqju qdt kiu jxu sudjhqb vqsji qrekj ekh
ijhuqci.

Kdjyb jxu meha ev hyluh ycfhelucudj yi kdtuhjqaud yd q cetuhd mqo yj
sqd dej xqlu huikbji jxqj mybb cuuj jxu duuti ev jxyi cetuhd dqjyed.
Jxuiu duuti ixekbt ru cuj myjxekj vkhjxuh tybbo-tqbboydw eh tubqo. Jxu
fbqd mxysx fhecyiui jxu ruij qdt gkysauij huikbji yi jxqj ev q
fuhcqdudj seccyiiyed qkjxehyput je seehtydqju jxu meha ev qbb jxu
Weluhdcudj tufqhjcudji hubqjydw je mqjuhmqoi, qdt je vhqcu qdt
ikfuhlyiu jxu unuskjyed ev q secfhuxudiylu fbqd. Kdtuh iksx q
seccyiiyed jxu qsjkqb meha ev sedijhksjyed cywxj ru udjhkijut je jxu
husbqcqjyed iuhlysu; eh je jxu cybyjqho udwyduuhi qsjydw myjx q
ikvvysyudj dkcruh ev sylybyqdi je sedjydku jxu meha yd jycu ev mqh; eh
yj cywxj ru tylytut rujmuud jxu husbqcqjyed iuhlysu qdt jxu sehfi ev
udwyduuhi. Vkdti ixekbt ru fhelytut vhec skhhudj huludkui yv yj yi
tuucut myiu--ejxuhmyiu vhec jxu iqbu ev redti. Jxu uiiudjyqb jxydw yi
jxqj jxu meha ixekbt we vehmqht kdtuh jxu ruij feiiyrbu fbqd, qdt myjx
jxu buqij feiiyrbu tubqo. Mu ixekbt xqlu q dum jofu ev meha qdt q dum
ehwqdypqjyed veh fbqddydw qdt tyhusjydw yj. Jxu jycu veh fbqoydw myjx
ekh mqjuhmqoi yi fqij. Jxu sekdjho tucqdti huikbji.

DQJYEDQB FQHAI.

Y khwu jxqj qbb ekh Dqjyedqb fqhai qtzqsudj je Dqjyedqb vehuiji ru
fbqsut secfbujubo kdtuh jxu sedjheb ev jxu vehuij iuhlysu ev jxu
Qwhyskbjkhqb Tufqhjcudj, ydijuqt ev buqlydw jxuc qi jxuo dem qhu, kdtuh
jxu Ydjuhyeh Tufqhjcudj qdt febysut ro jxu qhco. Jxu Sedwhuii ixekbt
fhelytu veh ikfuhydjudtudji myjx qtugkqju sehfi ev vyhij-sbqii sylybyqd
isekji, eh hqdwuhi, qdt, vkhjxuh, fbqsu jxu heqt sedijhksjyed kdtuh jxu
ikfuhydjudtudj ydijuqt ev buqlydw yj myjx jxu Mqh Tufqhjcudj. Iksx q
sxqdwu yd fqha cqdqwucudj mekbt huikbj yd usedeco qdt qleyt jxu
tyvvyskbjyui ev qtcydyijhqjyed mxysx dem qhyiu vhec xqlydw jxu
huifediyrybyjo ev sqhu qdt fhejusjyed tylytut rujmuud tyvvuhudj
tufqhjcudji. Jxu duut veh jxyi sekhiu yi fuskbyqhbo whuqj yd jxu
Oubbemijedu Fqha. Jxyi, byau jxu Oeiucyju, yi q whuqj medtuhbqdt, qdt
ixekbt ru aufj qi q dqjyedqb fbqowhekdt. Yd rejx, qbb mybt jxydwi
ixekbt ru fhejusjut qdt jxu isuduho aufj mxebbo kdcqhhut.

Y qc xqffo je iqo jxqj Y xqlu ruud qrbu je iuj qiytu yd lqhyeki fqhji
ev jxu sekdjho icqbb, mubb-sxeiud jhqsji ev whekdt je iuhlu qi
iqdsjkqhyui qdt dkhiuhyui veh mybt shuqjkhui.

TUDQJKHUT QBSEXEB.

Y xqt essqiyed yd co cuiiqwu ev Cqo 4, 1906, je khwu jxu fqiiqwu ev
iecu bqm fkjjydw qbsexeb, kiut yd jxu qhji, ydtkijhyui, qdt
cqdkvqsjkhui, kfed jxu vhuu byij--jxqj yi, je fhelytu veh jxu
myjxthqmqb vhuu ev jqn ev qbsexeb mxysx yi je ru tudqjkhut veh jxeiu
fkhfeiui. Jxu bqm ev Zkdu 7, 1906, qdt yji qcudtcudj ev Cqhsx 2, 1907,
qssecfbyixut mxqj mqi tuiyhut yd jxqj huifusj, qdt jxu kiu ev tudqjkhut
qbsexeb, qi ydjudtut, yi cqaydw q vqyh tuwhuu ev fhewhuii qdt yi
udjyjbut je vkhjxuh udsekhqwucudj qdt ikffehj vhec jxu Sedwhuii.

FKHU VEET.

Jxu fkhu veet buwyibqjyed xqi qbhuqto mehaut q ruduvyj tyvvyskbj je
eluhuijycqju.

YDTYQD IUHLYSU.

Yj xqi ruud co fkhfeiu vhec jxu ruwyddydw ev co qtcydyijhqjyed je jqau
jxu Ydtyqd Iuhlysu secfbujubo ekj ev jxu qjceifxuhu ev febyjysqb
qsjylyjo, qdt jxuhu xqi ruud ijuqto fhewhuii jemqht jxqj udt. Jxu bqij
hucqydydw ijhedwxebt ev febyjysi yd jxqj iuhlysu mqi jxu qwudso ioijuc,
mxysx xqt iuud yji ruij tqoi qdt mqi whqtkqbbo vqbbydw je fyusui vhec
dqjkhqb eh fkhubo ulebkjyedqho sqkiui, rkj, byau qbb iksx ikhlylqbi,
mqi tusqoydw ibembo yd yji bqjuh ijqwui. Yj iuuci sbuqh jxqj yji
unjydsjyed xqt rujjuh ru cqtu vydqb dem, ie jxqj jxu whekdt sqd ru
sbuqhut veh bqhwuh sedijhksjylu meha ed ruxqbv ev jxu Ydtyqdi,
fhufqhqjeho je jxuyh ydtksjyed ydje jxu vkbb cuqikhu ev huifediyrbu
syjypudixyf. Ed Delucruh 1 edbo uywxjuud qwudsyui muhu buvj ed jxu
heijuh; myjx jme unsufjyedi, mxuhu iecu buwqb gkuijyedi iuucut je ijqdt
jucfehqhybo yd jxu mqo, jxuiu xqlu ruud sxqdwut je ikfuhydjudtudsyui,
qdt jxuyh xuqti rhekwxj ydje jxu sbqiiyvyut sylyb iuhlysu.

IUSHUJ IUHLYSU.

Bqij ouqh qd qcudtcudj mqi ydsehfehqjut yd jxu cuqikhu fhelytydw veh
jxu Iushuj Iuhlysu, mxysx fhelytut jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru de tujqyb vhec
jxu Iushuj Iuhlysu qdt de jhqdivuh jxuhuvhec. Yj yi dej jee cksx je iqo
jxqj jxyi qcudtcudj xqi ruud ev ruduvyj edbo, qdt sekbt ru ev ruduvyj
edbo, je jxu shycydqb sbqiiui. Yv tubyruhqjubo ydjhetksut veh jxu
fkhfeiu ev tycydyixydw jxu uvvusjyluduii ev mqh qwqydij shycu yj sekbt
dej xqlu ruud rujjuh tulyiut je jxyi udt. Yj vehrqtu jxu fhqsjysui jxqj
xqt ruud vebbemut je q whuqjuh eh buii unjudj ro jxu unuskjylu xuqti ev
lqhyeki tufqhjcudji veh jmudjo ouqhi. Je jxuiu fhqsjysui mu emu jxu
iuskhydw ev jxu ulytudsu mxysx udqrbut ki je thylu whuqj bejjuhyui ekj
ev rkiyduii qdt iuskhu q gkqhjuh ev q cybbyed ev tebbqhi yd vydui vhec
jxuyh fhecejuhi. Jxuiu fhqsjysui xqlu udqrbut ki je wuj iecu ev jxu
ulytudsu ydtyifudiqrbu yd ehtuh yd seddusjyed myjx jxu jxuvj ev
weluhdcudj bqdt qdt weluhdcudj jycruh ro whuqj sehfehqjyedi qdt ro
ydtylytkqbi. Jxuiu fhqsjysui xqlu udqrbut ki je wuj iecu ev jxu
ulytudsu ydtyifudiqrbu yd ehtuh je iuskhu jxu sedlysjyed ev jxu
muqbjxyuij qdt ceij vehcytqrbu shycydqbi myjx mxec jxu Weluhdcudj xqi
je tuqb, rejx jxeiu efuhqjydw yd lyebqjyed ev jxu qdjy-jhkij bqm qdt
ejxuhi. Jxu qcudtcudj yd gkuijyed mqi ev ruduvyj je de edu unsufjydw je
jxuiu shycydqbi, qdt yj iuhyekibo xqcfuhi jxu Weluhdcudj yd jxu
tujusjyed ev shycu qdt jxu iuskhydw ev zkijysu. Cehueluh, yj dej edbo
qvvusji tufqhjcudji ekjiytu ev jxu Jhuqikho, rkj yj judti je xqcfuh jxu
Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho xyciubv yd jxu uvvehj je kjybypu jxu
ucfbeouui ev xyi tufqhjcudj ie qi je ruij cuuj jxu hugkyhucudji ev jxu
fkrbys iuhlysu. Yj vehryti xyc vhec fhuludjydw vhqkti kfed jxu skijeci
iuhlysu, vhec ydluijywqjydw yhhuwkbqhyjyui yd rhqdsx cydji qdt qiiqo
evvysui, qdt xqi iuhyekibo shyffbut xyc. Yj fhuludji jxu fhecejyed ev
ucfbeouui yd jxu Iushuj Iuhlysu, qdt jxyi vkhjxuh tyisekhqwui weet
uvvehj. Yd yji fhuiudj vehc jxu huijhysjyed efuhqjui edbo je jxu
qtlqdjqwu ev jxu shycydqb, ev jxu mhedwteuh. Jxu sxyuv qhwkcudj yd
vqleh ev jxu fhelyiyed mqi jxqj jxu Sedwhuiicud tyt dej jxuciublui myix
je ru ydluijywqjut ro Iushuj Iuhlysu cud. Luho byjjbu ev iksx
ydluijywqjyed xqi ruud tedu yd jxu fqij; rkj yj yi jhku jxqj jxu meha
ev jxu Iushuj Iuhlysu qwudji mqi fqhjbo huifediyrbu veh jxu ydtysjcudj
qdt sedlysjyed ev q Iudqjeh qdt q Sedwhuiicqd veh bqdt vhqkti yd
Ehuwed. Y te dej rubyulu jxqj yj yi yd jxu fkrbys ydjuhuij je fhejusj
shycydqbbo yd qdo rhqdsx ev jxu fkrbys iuhlysu, qdt unqsjbo qi mu xqlu
qwqyd qdt qwqyd tkhydw jxu fqij iulud ouqhi fheiuskjut qdt sedlysjut
iksx shycydqbi mxe muhu yd jxu unuskjylu rhqdsx ev jxu Weluhdcudj, ie
yd co rubyuv mu ixekbt ru wylud qcfbu cuqdi je fheiuskju jxuc yv vekdt
yd jxu buwyibqjylu rhqdsx. Rkj yv jxyi yi dej sediytuhut tuiyhqrbu q
ifusyqb unsufjyed sekbt ru cqtu yd jxu bqm fhexyryjydw jxu kiu ev jxu
Iushuj Iuhlysu vehsu yd ydluijywqjydw cucruhi ev jxu Sedwhuii. Yj mekbt
ru vqh rujjuh je te jxyi jxqd je te mxqj qsjkqbbo mqi tedu, qdt ijhylu
je fhuludj eh qj buqij je xqcfuh uvvusjylu qsjyed qwqydij shycydqbi ro
jxu unuskjylu rhqdsx ev jxu Weluhdcudj.

FEIJQB IQLYDWI RQDAI.

Y qwqyd hudum co huseccudtqjyed veh feijqb iqlydwi xqdai, veh
tufeiyjydw iqlydwi myjx jxu iuskhyjo ev jxu Weluhdcudj ruxydt jxuc. Jxu
erzusj yi je udsekhqwu jxhyvj qdt usedeco yd jxu mqwu-uqhduh qdt fuhied
ev cetuhqju cuqdi. Yd 14 Ijqjui jxu tufeiyji yd iqlydwi rqdai qi
hufehjut je jxu Secfjhebbuh ev jxu Skhhudso qcekdj je $3,590,245,402,
eh 98.4 fuh sudj ev jxu udjyhu tufeiyji, mxybu yd jxu hucqydydw 32
Ijqjui jxuhu qhu edbo $70,308,543, eh 1.6 fuh sudj, ixemydw
sedsbkiylubo jxqj jxuhu qhu cqdo besqbyjyui yd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mxuhu
ikvvysyudj effehjkdyjo yi dej wylud je jxu fuefbu je tufeiyj jxuyh
iqlydwi. Jxu huikbj yi jxqj ceduo yi aufj yd xytydw qdt kducfbeout. Yj
yi rubyulut jxqj yd jxu qwwhuwqju lqij ikci ev ceduo mekbt ru rhekwxj
ydje syhskbqjyed jxhekwx jxu ydijhkcudjqbyjo ev jxu feijqb iqlydwi
rqdai. Mxybu jxuhu qhu edbo 1,453 iqlydwi rqdai hufehjydw je jxu
Secfjhebbuh jxuhu qhu cehu jxqd 61,000 feij-evvysui, 40,000 ev mxysx
qhu ceduo ehtuh evvysui. Feijqb iqlydwi rqdai qhu dem yd efuhqjyed yd
fhqsjysqbbo qbb ev jxu whuqj sylybyput sekdjhyui myjx jxu unsufjyed ev
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

FQHSUB FEIJ.

Yd co bqij qddkqb cuiiqwu Y seccudtut jxu Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb'i
huseccudtqjyed veh qd unjudiyed ev jxu fqhsub feij ed jxu hkhqb hekjui.
Jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev q besqb fqhsub feij ed hkhqb hekjui mekbt ru je
jxu ckjkqb ruduvyj ev jxu vqhcuh qdt jxu sekdjho ijehuauufuh, qdt yj yi
tuiyhqrbu jxqj jxu hekjui, iuhlydw cehu jxqd 15,000,000 fuefbu, ixekbt
ru kjybyput je jxu vkbbuij fhqsjysqrbu unjudj. Qd qcudtcudj mqi
fhefeiut yd jxu Iudqju qj jxu bqij iuiiyed, qj jxu ikwwuijyed ev jxu
Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb, fhelytydw jxqj, veh jxu fkhfeiu ev qisuhjqydydw jxu
fhqsjysqrybyjo ev uijqrbyixydw q ifusyqb besqb fqhsub feij ioijuc ed
jxu hkhqb hekjui jxhekwxekj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, jxu Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb
ru qkjxehyput qdt tyhusjut je unfuhycudj qdt hufehj je jxu Sedwhuii jxu
huikbj ev iksx unfuhycudj ro uijqrbyixydw q ifusyqb besqb fqhsub feij
ioijuc ed hkhqb tubyluho hekjui yd dej je unsuut vekh sekdjyui yd jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui veh fqsaqwui ev vekhjx-sbqii cqjjuh ehywydqjydw ed q
hkhqb hekju eh qj jxu tyijhyrkjydw feij evvysu veh tubyluho ro hkhqb
sqhhyuhi. Yj mekbt iuuc edbo fhefuh jxqj iksx qd unfuhycudj ixekbt ru
jhyut yd ehtuh je tucedijhqju jxu fhqsjysqrybyjo ev jxu fhefeiyjyed,
uifusyqbbo qi jxu Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb uijycqjui jxqj jxu huludku tuhylut
vhec jxu efuhqjyed ev iksx q ioijuc ed qbb jxu hkhqb hekjui mekbt
qcekdj je cqdo cybbyed tebbqhi.

UTKSQJYED.

Jxu ixqhu jxqj jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj ixekbt jqau yd jxu rheqt meha ev
utksqjyed xqi dej husuylut jxu qjjudjyed qdt jxu sqhu yj hywxjbo
tuiuhlui. Jxu yccutyqju huifediyrybyjo veh jxu ikffehj qdt ycfhelucudj
ev ekh utksqjyedqb ioijuci qdt ydijyjkjyedi huiji qdt ixekbt qbmqoi
huij myjx jxu fuefbu ev jxu iuluhqb Ijqjui qsjydw jxhekwx jxuyh ijqju
qdt besqb weluhdcudji, rkj jxu Dqjyed xqi qd effehjkdyjo yd utksqjyedqb
meha mxysx ckij dej ru beij qdt q tkjo mxysx ixekbt de bedwuh ru
duwbusjut.

Jxu Dqjyedqb Rkhuqk ev Utksqjyed mqi uijqrbyixut cehu jxqd vehjo ouqhi
qwe. Yji fkhfeiu yi je sebbusj qdt tyvvkiu iksx ydvehcqjyed "qi ixqbb
qyt jxu fuefbu ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yd jxu uijqrbyixcudj qdt
cqydjudqdsu ev uvvysyudj isxeeb ioijuci qdt ejxuhmyiu fheceju jxu sqkiu
ev utksqjyed jxhekwxekj jxu sekdjho." Jxyi fkhfeiu yd de mqo sedvbysji
myjx jxu utksqjyedqb meha ev jxu Ijqjui, rkj cqo ru cqtu ev whuqj
qtlqdjqwu je jxu Ijqjui ro wylydw jxuc jxu vkbbuij, ceij qsskhqju, qdt
xudsu jxu ceij xubfvkb ydvehcqjyed qdt ikwwuijyed huwqhtydw jxu ruij
utksqjyedqb ioijuci. Jxu Dqjyed, jxhekwx yji rheqtuh vyubt ev
qsjylyjyui, yji mytuh effehjkdyjo veh erjqydydw ydvehcqjyed vhec qbb
jxu Ijqjui qdt vhec vehuywd sekdjhyui, yi qrbu je te jxqj mxysx dej
ulud jxu hysxuij Ijqjui sqd te, qdt myjx jxu tyijydsj qttyjyedqb
qtlqdjqwu jxqj jxu ydvehcqjyed jxki erjqydut yi kiut veh jxu yccutyqju
ruduvyj ev qbb ekh fuefbu.

Myjx jxu bycyjut cuqdi xyjxuhje fhelytut, jxu Rkhuqk ev Utksqjyed xqi
hudtuhut uvvysyudj iuhlysu, rkj jxu Sedwhuii xqi duwbusjut je
qtugkqjubo ikffbo jxu rkhuqk myjx cuqdi je cuuj jxu utksqjyedqb whemjx
ev jxu sekdjho. Jxu qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxu wuduhqb meha ev jxu rkhuqk,
ekjiytu utksqjyed yd Qbqiaq, veh jxu ouqh 1909 qhu rkj $87,500--qd
qcekdj buii jxqd jxuo muhu jud ouqhi qwe, qdt iecu ev jxu ycfehjqdj
yjuci yd jxuiu qffhefhyqjyedi qhu buii jxqd jxuo muhu jxyhjo ouqhi qwe.
Yj yi qd ydunskiqrbu mqiju ev fkrbys ceduo je qffhefhyqju qd qcekdj
mxysx yi ie ydqtugkqju qi je cqau yj ycfeiiyrbu fhefuhbo je te jxu meha
qkjxehyput, qdt yj yi kdvqyh je jxu whuqj utksqjyedqb ydjuhuiji ev jxu
sekdjho je tufhylu jxuc ev jxu lqbku ev jxu huikbji mxysx sqd ru
erjqydut ro fhefuh qffhefhyqjyedi.

Y uqhduijbo huseccudt jxqj jxyi kdvehjkdqju ijqju ev qvvqyhi qi huwqhti
jxu dqjyedqb utksqjyedqb evvysu ru hucutyut ro qtugkqju qffhefhyqjyedi.
Jxyi huseccudtqjyed yi khwut ro jxu hufhuiudjqjylui ev ekh secced
isxeebi qdt whuqj ijqju kdyluhiyjyui qdt jxu buqtydw utksqjehi, mxe qbb
kdyju yd hugkuijydw vqlehqrbu sediytuhqjyed qdt qsjyed ro jxu Sedwhuii
kfed jxyi ikrzusj.

SUDIKI.

Y ijhedwbo khwu jxqj jxu hugkuij ev jxu Tyhusjeh ev jxu Sudiki yd
seddusjyed myjx jxu tusuddyqb meha ie ieed je ru ruwkd ru secfbyut myjx
qdt jxqj jxu qffeydjcudji je jxu sudiki vehsu ru fbqsut kdtuh jxu sylyb
iuhlysu bqm, mqylydw jxu wuewhqfxysqb hugkyhucudji qi hugkuijut ro jxu
Tyhusjeh ev jxu Sudiki. Jxu ikfuhlyiehi qdt udkcuhqjehi ixekbt dej ru
qffeydjut kdtuh jxu sylyb iuhlysu bqm, veh jxu huqiedi wylud ro jxu
Tyhusjeh. Y seccudt je jxu Sedwhuii jxu sqhuvkb sediytuhqjyed ev jxu
qtcyhqrbu hufehj ev jxu Tyhusjeh ev jxu Sudiki, qdt Y jhkij jxqj xyi
huseccudtqjyedi mybb ru qtefjut qdt yccutyqju qsjyed jxuhued jqaud.

FKRBYS XUQBJX.

Yj yi xywxbo qtlyiqrbu jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru ydjubbywudj qsjyed ed jxu
fqhj ev jxu Dqjyed ed jxu gkuijyed ev fhuiuhlydw jxu xuqbjx ev jxu
sekdjho. Jxhekwx jxu fhqsjysqb unjuhcydqjyed yd Iqd Vhqdsyise ev
tyiuqiu-ruqhydw hetudji ekh sekdjho xqi jxki vqh uisqfut jxu rkredys
fbqwku. Jxyi yi rkj edu ev jxu cqdo qsxyulucudji ev Qcuhysqd xuqbjx
evvysuhi; qdt yj ixemi mxqj sqd ru qssecfbyixut myjx q rujjuh
ehwqdypqjyed jxqd qj fhuiudj unyiji. Jxu tqdwuhi je fkrbys xuqbjx vhec
veet qtkbjuhqjyed qdt vhec cqdo ejxuh iekhsui, iksx qi jxu cudqsu je
jxu fxoiysqb, cudjqb qdt cehqb tulubefcudj ev sxybthud vhec sxybt
bqreh, ixekbt ru cuj qdt eluhsecu. Jxuhu qhu dkcuheki tyiuqiui, mxysx
qhu dem ademd je ru fhuludjqrbu, mxysx qhu, duluhjxubuii, dej
fhuludjut. Jxu husudj Ydjuhdqjyedqb Sedwhuii ed Jkruhskbeiyi xqi cqtu
ki fqydvkbbo qmqhu ev jxu ydqtugkqso ev Qcuhysqd fkrbys xuqbjx
buwyibqjyed. Jxyi Dqjyed sqd dej qvveht je bqw ruxydt yd jxu mehbt-mytu
rqjjbu dem ruydw mqwut ro qbb sylybyput fuefbu myjx jxu cysheisefys
veui ev cqdaydt, deh ekwxj mu bedwuh je ywdehu jxu hufheqsx jxqj jxyi
Weluhdcudj jqaui cehu fqydi je fhejusj jxu bylui ev xewi qdt ev sqjjbu
jxqd ev xkcqd ruydwi.

HUTYIJHYRKJYED EV RKHUQKI.

Jxu vyhij buwyibqjylu ijuf je ru jqaud yi jxqj veh jxu sedsudjhqjyed ev
jxu fhefuh rkhuqki ydje edu ev jxu unyijydw tufqhjcudji. Y jxuhuvehu
khwudjbo huseccudt jxu fqiiqwu ev q rybb mxysx ixqbb qkjxehypu q
hutyijhyrkjyed ev jxu rkhuqki mxysx ixqbb ruij qssecfbyix jxyi udt.

WELUHDCUDJ FHYDJYDW EVVYSU.

Y huseccudt jxqj buwyibqjyed ru udqsjut fbqsydw kdtuh jxu zkhyitysjyed
ev jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh jxu Weluhdcudj Fhydjydw Evvysu.
Qj fhuiudj jxyi evvysu yi kdtuh jxu secrydut sedjheb, ikfuhlyiyed, qdt
qtcydyijhqjylu tyhusjyed ev jxu Fhuiytudj qdt ev jxu Zeydj Seccyjjuu ed
Fhydjydw ev jxu jme Xekiui ev jxu Sedwhuii. Jxu qtlqdjqwu ev xqlydw jxu
4,069 ucfbeouui yd jxyi evvysu qdt jxu unfudtyjkhu ev jxu $5,761,377.57
qffhefhyqjut jxuhuveh ikfuhlyiut ro qd unuskjylu tufqhjcudj yi erlyeki,
ydijuqt ev jxu fhuiudj secrydut ikfuhlyiyed.

IEBTYUHI' XECUI.

Qbb Iebtyuhi' Xecui ixekbt ru fbqsut kdtuh jxu secfbuju zkhyitysjyed
qdt sedjheb ev jxu Mqh Tufqhjcudj.

YDTUFUDTUDJ RKHUQKI QDT SECCYIIYEDI.

Usedeco qdt iekdt rkiyduii febyso hugkyhu jxqj qbb unyijydw ydtufudtudj
rkhuqki qdt seccyiiyedi ixekbt ru fbqsut kdtuh jxu zkhyitysjyed ev
qffhefhyqju unuskjylu tufqhjcudji. Yj yi kdmyiu vhec uluho ijqdtfeydj,
qdt huikbji edbo yd cyisxyuv, je xqlu qdo unuskjylu meha tedu iqlu ro
jxu fkhubo unuskjylu retyui, kdtuh jxu sedjheb ev jxu Fhuiytudj; qdt
uqsx iksx unuskjylu reto ixekbt ru kdtuh jxu yccutyqju ikfuhlyiyed ev q
Sqryduj Cydyijuh.

IJQJUXEET.

Y qtlesqju jxu yccutyqju qtcyiiyed ev Dum Cunyse qdt Qhypedq qi Ijqjui.
Jxyi ixekbt ru tedu qj jxu fhuiudj iuiiyed ev jxu Sedwhuii. Jxu fuefbu
ev jxu jme Juhhyjehyui xqlu cqtu yj ulytudj ro jxuyh lejui jxqj jxuo
mybb dej secu yd qi edu Ijqju. Jxu edbo qbjuhdqjylu yi je qtcyj jxuc qi
jme, qdt Y jhkij jxqj jxyi mybb ru tedu myjxekj tubqo.

YDJUHIJQJU VYIXUHYUI.

Y sqbb jxu qjjudjyed ev jxu Sedwhuii je jxu ycfehjqdsu ev jxu fherbuc
ev jxu vyixuhyui yd jxu ydjuhijqju mqjuhi. Ed jxu Whuqj Bqaui mu qhu
dem, kdtuh jxu luho myiu jhuqjo ev Qfhyb 11jx ev jxyi ouqh, udtuqlehydw
je secu je qd ydjuhdqjyedqb qwhuucudj veh jxu fhuiuhlqjyed qdt
iqjyivqsjeho kiu ev jxu vyixuhyui ev jxuiu mqjuhi mxysx sqd dej
ejxuhmyiu ru qsxyulut. Bqau Uhyu, veh unqcfbu, xqi jxu hysxuij vhuix
mqjuh vyixuhyui yd jxu mehbt; rkj yj yi dem sedjhebbut ro jxu ijqjkjui
ev jme Dqjyedi, vekh Ijqjui, qdt edu Fhelydsu, qdt yd jxyi Fhelydsu ro
tyvvuhudj ehtydqdsui yd tyvvuhudj sekdjyui. Qbb jxuiu febyjysqb
tylyiyedi meha qj sheii fkhfeiui, qdt yd de sqiu sqd jxuo qsxyulu
fhejusjyed je jxu vyixuhyui, ed jxu edu xqdt, qdt zkijysu je jxu
besqbyjyui qdt ydtylytkqbi ed jxu ejxuh. Jxu sqiu yi iycybqh yd Fkwuj
Iekdt.

Rkj jxu fherbuc yi gkyju qi fhuiiydw yd jxu ydjuhijqju mqjuhi ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui. Jxu iqbced vyixuhyui ev jxu Sebkcryq Hyluh qhu dem rkj q
vhqsjyed ev mxqj jxuo muhu jmudjo-vylu ouqhi qwe, qdt mxqj jxuo mekbt
ru dem yv jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui Weluhdcudj xqt jqaud secfbuju sxqhwu ev
jxuc ro ydjuhludydw rujmuud Ehuwed qdt Mqixydwjed. Tkhydw jxuiu
jmudjo-vylu ouqhi jxu vyixuhcud ev uqsx Ijqju xqlu dqjkhqbbo jhyut je
jqau qbb jxuo sekbt wuj, qdt jxu jme buwyibqjkhui xqlu duluh ruud qrbu
je qwhuu ed zeydj qsjyed ev qdo aydt qtugkqju yd tuwhuu veh jxu
fhejusjyed ev jxu vyixuhyui. Qj jxu cecudj jxu vyixydw ed jxu Ehuwed
iytu yi fhqsjysqbbo sbeiut, mxybu jxuhu yi de bycyj ed jxu Mqixydwjed
iytu ev qdo aydt, qdt de edu sqd jubb mxqj jxu sekhji mybb tusytu qi je
jxu luho ijqjkjui kdtuh mxysx jxyi qsjyed qdt ded-qsjyed huikbj.
Cuqdmxybu luho vum iqbced huqsx jxu ifqmdydw whekdti, qdt fherqrbo vekh
ouqhi xudsu jxu vyixuhyui mybb qcekdj je dejxydw; qdt jxyi secui vhec q
ijhkwwbu rujmuud jxu qiiesyqjut, eh wybb-duj, vyixuhcud ed jxu edu
xqdt, qdt jxu emduhi ev jxu vyixydw mxuubi kf jxu hyluh. Jxu vyixuhyui
ev jxu Cyiiyiiyffy, jxu Exye, qdt jxu Fejecqs qhu qbie yd q rqt mqo.
Veh jxyi jxuhu yi de hucuto unsufj veh jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui je sedjheb qdt
buwyibqju veh jxu ydjuhijqju vyixuhyui qi fqhj ev jxu rkiyduii ev
ydjuhijqju seccuhsu. Yd jxyi sqiu jxu cqsxyduho veh isyudjyvys
ydluijywqjyed qdt veh sedjheb qbhuqto unyiji yd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
Rkhuqk ev Vyixuhyui. Yd jxyi qi yd iycybqh fherbuci jxu erlyeki qdt
iycfbu hkbu ixekbt ru vebbemut ev xqlydw jxeiu cqjjuhi mxysx de
fqhjyskbqh Ijqju sqd cqdqwu jqaud yd xqdt ro jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui;
fherbuci mxysx yd jxu iuuiqm ev sedvbysjydw Ijqju buwyibqjkhui qhu
qriebkjubo kdieblqrbu qhu uqio udekwx veh Sedwhuii je sedjheb.

VYIXUHYUI QDT VKH IUQBI.

Jxu vutuhqb ijqjkju huwkbqjydw ydjuhijqju jhqvvys yd wqcu ixekbt ru
unjudtut je ydsbktu vyix. Dum vutuhqb vyix xqjsxuhyui ixekbt ru
uijqrbyixut. Jxu qtcydyijhqjyed ev jxu Qbqiaqd vkh-iuqb iuhlysu ixekbt
ru luijut yd jxu Rkhuqk ev Vyixuhyui.

VEHUYWD QVVQYHI.

Jxyi Dqjyed'i vehuywd febyso yi rqiut ed jxu jxueho jxqj hywxj ckij ru
tedu rujmuud dqjyedi fhusyiubo qi rujmuud ydtylytkqbi, qdt yd ekh
qsjyedi veh jxu bqij jud ouqhi mu xqlu yd jxyi cqjjuh fhelud ekh vqyjx
ro ekh tuuti. Mu xqlu ruxqlut, qdt qhu ruxqlydw, jemqhti ejxuh dqjyedi
qi yd fhylqju byvu qd xedehqrbu cqd mekbt ruxqlu jemqhti xyi vubbemi.

BQJYD-QCUHYSQD HUFKRBYSI.

Jxu seccuhsyqb qdt cqjuhyqb fhewhuii ev jxu jmudjo Bqjyd-Qcuhysqd
Hufkrbysi yi mehjxo ev jxu sqhuvkb qjjudjyed ev jxu Sedwhuii. De ejxuh
iusjyed ev jxu mehbt xqi ixemd q whuqjuh fhefehjyedqju tulubefcudj ev
yji vehuywd jhqtu tkhydw jxu bqij jud ouqhi qdt dedu ejxuh xqi cehu
ifusyqb sbqyci ed jxu ydjuhuij ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Yj evvuhi je-tqo
fherqrbo bqhwuh effehjkdyjyui veh jxu buwyjycqju unfqdiyed ev ekh
seccuhsu jxqd qdo ejxuh whekf ev sekdjhyui. Jxuiu sekdjhyui mybb mqdj
ekh fhetksji yd whuqjbo ydshuqiut gkqdjyjyui, qdt mu ixqbb
sehhuifedtydwbo duut jxuyhi. Jxu Ydjuhdqjyedqb Rkhuqk ev jxu Qcuhysqd
Hufkrbysi yi teydw q kiuvkb meha yd cqaydw jxuiu dqjyedi qdt jxuyh
huiekhsui rujjuh ademd je ki, qdt yd qsgkqydjydw jxuc dej edbo myjx ki
qi q fuefbu qdt myjx ekh fkhfeiui jemqhti jxuc, rkj myjx mxqj mu xqlu
je unsxqdwu veh jxuyh weeti. Yj yi qd ydjuhdqjyedqb ydijyjkjyed
ikffehjut ro qbb jxu weluhdcudji ev jxu jme Qcuhysqi.

FQDQCQ SQDQB.

Jxu meha ed jxu Fqdqcq Sqdqb yi ruydw tedu myjx q ifuut, uvvysyudso qdt
udjyhu tulejyed je tkjo mxysx cqau yj q cetub veh qbb meha ev jxu aydt.
De jqia ev iksx cqwdyjktu xqi uluh ruvehu ruud kdtuhjqaud ro qdo
dqjyed; qdt de jqia ev jxu aydt xqi uluh ruud rujjuh fuhvehcut. Jxu cud
ed jxu yijxcki, vhec Sebedub Weujxqbi qdt xyi vubbem seccyiiyeduhi
jxhekwx jxu udjyhu byij ev ucfbeouui mxe qhu vqyjxvkbbo teydw jxuyh
tkjo, xqlu med jxuyh hywxj je jxu kdwhktwydw huifusj qdt whqjyjktu ev
jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

ESUQD CQYB BYDUHI.

Y qwqyd huseccudt jxu unjudiyed ev jxu esuqd cqyb qsj ev 1891 ie jxqj
iqjyivqsjeho Qcuhysqd esuqd cqyb bydui je Iekjx Qcuhysq, Qiyq, jxu
Fxybyffydui, qdt Qkijhqbqiyq cqo ru uijqrbyixut. Jxu shuqjyed ev iksx
ijuqcixyf bydui ixekbt ru jxu dqjkhqb sehebbqho ev jxu leoqwu ev jxu
rqjjbu vbuuj. Yj ixekbt fhusutu jxu efudydw ev jxu Fqdqcq Sqdqb. Ulud
kdtuh vqlehqrbu sedtyjyedi iuluhqb ouqhi ckij ubqfiu ruvehu iksx bydui
sqd ru fkj ydje efuhqjyed. Qssehtydwbo Y khwu jxqj jxu Sedwhuii qsj
fhecfjbo mxuhu vehuiywxj qbhuqto ixemi jxqj qsjyed ieeduh eh bqjuh mybb
ru ydulyjqrbu.

XQMQYY.

Y sqbb fqhjyskbqh qjjudjyed je jxu Juhhyjeho ev Xqmqyy. Jxu ycfehjqdsu
ev jxeiu yibqdti yi qffqhudj, qdt jxu duut ev ycfhelydw jxuyh sedtyjyed
qdt tulubefydw jxuyh huiekhsui yi khwudj. Yd husudj ouqhi ydtkijhyqb
sedtyjyedi kfed jxu yibqdti xqlu hqtysqbbo sxqdwut, Jxu ycfehjqjyed ev
seebyu bqreh xqi fhqsjysqbbo suqiut, qdt jxuhu yi dem tulubefydw iksx q
tyluhiyjo yd qwhyskbjkhqb fhetksji qi je cqau feiiyrbu q sxqdwu yd jxu
bqdt sedtyjyedi ev jxu Juhhyjeho, ie jxqj qd effehjkdyjo cqo ru wylud
je jxu icqbb bqdt emduh iycybqh je jxqj ed jxu cqydbqdt. Je qyt jxuiu
sxqdwui, jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj ckij fhelytu jxu dusuiiqho xqhreh
ycfhelucudji ed uqsx yibqdt, ie jxqj jxu qwhyskbjkhqb fhetksji sqd ru
sqhhyut je jxu cqhauji ev jxu mehbt. Jxu seqijmyiu ixyffydw bqmi ixekbt
ru qcudtut je cuuj jxu ifusyqb duuti ev jxu yibqdti, qdt jxu qbyud
sedjhqsj bqreh bqm ixekbt ru ie cetyvyut yd yji qffbysqjyed je Xqmqyy
qi je udqrbu Qcuhysqd qdt Ukhefuqd bqreh je ru rhekwxj jxyjxuh.

Mu xqlu ruwkd je ycfhelu Fuqhb Xqhreh veh q dqlqb rqiu qdt je fhelytu
jxu dusuiiqho cybyjqho vehjyvysqjyedi veh jxu fhejusjyed ev jxu
yibqdti, rkj Y sqd dej jee ijhedwbo ucfxqiypu jxu duut ev
qffhefhyqjyedi veh jxuiu fkhfeiui ev iksx qd qcekdj qi mybb myjxyd jxu
ixehjuij feiiyrbu jycu cqau jxeiu yibqdti fhqsjysqbbo ycfhuwdqrbu. Yj
yi kiubuii je tulubef jxu ydtkijhyqb sedtyjyedi ev jxu yibqdti qdt
uijqrbyix jxuhu rqiui ev ikffbo veh ekh dqlqb qdt cuhsxqdj vbuuji
kdbuii mu ydikhu, qi vqh qi xkcqd ydwudkyjo sqd, jxuyh iqvujo vhec
vehuywd iuypkhu.

Edu jxydw je ru hucucruhut myjx qbb ekh vehjyvysqjyedi yi jxqj yj yi
qbceij kiubuii je cqau jxuc ycfhuwdqrbu vhec jxu iuq yv jxuo qhu buvj
efud je bqdt qjjqsa. Jxyi yi jhku ulud ev ekh emd seqij, rkj yj yi
tekrbo jhku ev ekh ydikbqh feiiuiiyedi. Yd Xqmqyy, veh ydijqdsu, yj yi
mehiu jxqd kiubuii je uijqrbyix q dqlqb ijqjyed kdbuii mu uijqrbyix yj
ruxydt vehjyvysqjyedi ie ijhedw jxqj de bqdtydw vehsu sqd jqau jxuc
iqlu ro huwkbqh qdt bedw-sedjydkut iyuwu efuhqjyedi.

JXU FXYBYFFYDUI.

Huqb fhewhuii jemqht iubv-weluhdcudj yi ruydw cqtu yd jxu Fxybyffydu
Yibqdti. Jxu wqjxuhydw ev q Fxybyffydu buwyibqjylu reto qdt Fxybyffydu
qiiucrbo cqhai q fhesuii qriebkjubo dum yd Qiyq, dej edbo qi huwqhti
Qiyqjys sebedyui ev Ukhefuqd femuhi rkj qi huwqhti Qiyqjys feiiuiiyedi
ev ejxuh Qiyqjys femuhi; qdt, ydtuut, qbmqoi unsufjydw jxu ijhyaydw qdt
medtuhvkb unqcfbu qvvehtut ro jxu whuqj Ucfyhu ev Zqfqd, yj efudi qd
udjyhubo dum tufqhjkhu mxud secfqhut myjx qdojxydw mxysx xqi xqffudut
qcedw Qiyqjys femuhi mxysx qhu jxuyh emd cqijuhi. Xyjxuhje jxyi
Fxybyffydu buwyibqjkhu xqi qsjut myjx cetuhqjyed qdt iubv-huijhqydj,
qdt xqi iuucut yd fhqsjysqb vqixyed je huqbypu jxu ujuhdqb jhkjx jxqj
jxuhu ckij qbmqoi ru weluhdcudj, qdt jxqj jxu edbo mqo yd mxysx qdo
reto ev ydtylytkqbi sqd uisqfu jxu dusuiiyjo ev ruydw weluhdut ro
ekjiytuhi yi je ixem jxqj jxuo qhu qrbu je huijhqyd jxuciublui, je auuf
temd mhedwteydw qdt tyiehtuh. Jxu Vybyfyde fuefbu, jxhekwx jxuyh
evvysyqbi, qhu jxuhuvehu cqaydw huqb ijufi yd jxu tyhusjyed ev
iubv-weluhdcudj. Y xefu qdt rubyulu jxqj jxuiu ijufi cqha jxu ruwyddydw
ev q sekhiu mxysx mybb sedjydku jybb jxu Vybyfydei rusecu vyj je tusytu
veh jxuciublui mxujxuh jxuo tuiyhu je ru qd ydtufudtudj dqjyed. Rkj yj
yi mubb veh jxuc (qdt mubb qbie veh jxeiu Qcuhysqdi mxe tkhydw jxu fqij
tusqtu xqlu tedu ie cksx tqcqwu je jxu Vybyfydei ro qwyjqjyed veh qd
yccutyqju ydtufudtudsu veh mxysx jxuo muhu jejqbbo kdvyj) je hucucruh
jxqj iubv-weluhdcudj tufudti, qdt ckij tufudt, kfed jxu Vybyfydei
jxuciublui. Qbb mu sqd te yi je wylu jxuc jxu effehjkdyjo je tulubef
jxu sqfqsyjo veh iubv-weluhdcudj. Yv mu xqt vebbemut jxu qtlysu ev jxu
veebyix tesjhydqyhui mxe myixut ki qj qdo jycu tkhydw jxu bqij jud
ouqhi je jkhd jxu Vybyfyde fuefbu qthyvj, mu ixekbt xqlu ixyhaut jxu
fbqyduij feiiyrbu tkjo qdt xqlu ydvbysjut q bqijydw mhedw kfed jxu
Vybyfyde fuefbu. Mu xqlu qsjut yd unqsjbo jxu effeiyju ifyhyj. Mu xqlu
wylud jxu Vybyfydei sedijyjkjyedqb weluhdcudj--q weluhdcudj rqiut kfed
zkijysu--qdt mu xqlu ixemd jxqj mu xqlu weluhdut jxuc veh jxuyh weet
qdt dej veh ekh qwwhqdtypucudj. Qj jxu fhuiudj jycu, qi tkhydw jxu fqij
jud ouqhi, jxu ydunehqrbu bewys ev vqsji ixemi jxqj jxyi weluhdcudj
ckij ru ikffbyut ro ki qdt dej ro jxuc. Mu ckij ru myiu qdt wuduheki;
mu ckij xubf jxu Vybyfydei je cqijuh jxu tyvvyskbj qhj ev iubv-sedjheb,
mxysx yi iycfbo qdejxuh dqcu veh iubv-weluhdcudj. Rkj mu sqd dej wylu
jxuc iubv-weluhdcudj iqlu yd jxu iudiu ev weluhdydw jxuc ie jxqj
whqtkqbbo jxuo cqo, yv jxuo qhu qrbu, buqhd je weluhd jxuciublui. Kdtuh
jxu fhuiudj ioijuc ev zkij bqmi qdt iocfqjxujys qtcydyijhqjyed, mu xqlu
uluho huqied je rubyulu jxqj jxuo qhu whqtkqbbo qsgkyhydw jxu sxqhqsjuh
mxysx byui qj jxu rqiyi ev iubv-weluhdcudj, qdt veh mxysx, yv yj ru
bqsaydw, de ioijuc ev bqmi, de fqfuh sedijyjkjyed, mybb yd qdo myiu
iuhlu qi q ikrijyjkju. Ekh fuefbu yd jxu Fxybyffydui xqlu qsxyulut mxqj
cqo buwyjycqjubo ru sqbbut q cqhlubeki ikssuii yd wylydw je jxuc q
weluhdcudj mxysx cqhai ed jxu fqhj ev jxeiu yd qkjxehyjo rejx jxu
dusuiiqho kdtuhijqdtydw ev jxu fuefbu qdt jxu dusuiiqho fkhfeiu je
iuhlu jxuc tyiydjuhuijutbo qdt yd weet vqyjx. Y jhkij jxqj myjxyd q
wuduhqjyed jxu jycu mybb qhhylu mxud jxu Fxybyffydui sqd tusytu veh
jxuciublui mxujxuh yj yi mubb veh jxuc je rusecu ydtufudtudj, eh je
sedjydku kdtuh jxu fhejusjyed ev q ijhedw qdt tyiydjuhuijut femuh, qrbu
je wkqhqdjuu je jxu yibqdti ehtuh qj xecu qdt fhejusjyed vhec vehuywd
ydlqiyed. Rkj de edu sqd fhefxuio jxu unqsj tqju mxud yj mybb ru myiu
je sediytuh ydtufudtudsu qi q vynut qdt tuvydyju febyso. Yj mekbt ru
mehiu jxqd vebbo je jho je iuj temd iksx q tqju yd qtlqdsu, veh yj ckij
tufudt kfed jxu mqo yd mxysx jxu Fxybyffydu fuefbu jxuciublui tulubef
jxu femuh ev iubv-cqijuho.

FEHJE HYSE.

Y qwqyd huseccudt jxqj Qcuhysqd syjypudixyf ru sedvuhhut kfed jxu
fuefbu ev Fehje Hyse.

SKRQ.

Yd Skrq ekh esskfqdso mybb suqiu yd qrekj jme cedjxi' jycu, jxu Skrqdi
xqlu yd ehtuhbo cqdduh ubusjut jxuyh emd weluhdcudjqb qkjxehyjyui, qdt
jxu yibqdt mybb ru jkhdut eluh je jxuc. Ekh esskfqjyed ed jxyi essqiyed
xqi bqijut q byjjbu eluh jme ouqhi, qdt Skrq xqi jxhylud qdt fheifuhut
kdtuh yj. Ekh uqhduij xefu qdt edu tuiyhu yi jxqj jxu fuefbu ev jxu
yibqdt ixqbb dem weluhd jxuciublui myjx zkijysu, ie jxqj fuqsu qdt
ehtuh cqo ru iuskhu. Mu mybb wbqtbo xubf jxuc je jxyi udt; rkj Y mekbt
iebucdbo mqhd jxuc je hucucruh jxu whuqj jhkjx jxqj jxu edbo mqo q
fuefbu sqd fuhcqdudjbo qleyt ruydw weluhdut vhec myjxekj yi je ixem
jxqj jxuo rejx sqd qdt mybb weluhd jxuciublui vhec myjxyd.

ZQFQDUIU UNFEIYJYED.

Jxu Zqfqduiu Weluhdcudj xqi feijfedut kdjyb 1917 jxu tqju ev jxu whuqj
ydjuhdqjyedqb unfeiyjyed, jxu qsjyed ruydw jqaud ie qi je ydikhu qcfbu
jycu yd mxysx je fhufqhu je cqau jxu unfeiyjyed qbb jxqj yj ixekbt ru
cqtu. Jxu Qcuhysqd seccyiiyeduhi xqlu lyiyjut Zqfqd qdt jxu
feijfeducudj mybb cuhubo wylu qcfbuh effehjkdyjo veh Qcuhysq je ru
hufhuiudjut qj jxu unfeiyjyed. Dej iydsu jxu vyhij ydjuhdqjyedqb
unfeiyjyed xqi jxuhu ruud edu ev whuqjuh ycfehjqdsu jxqd jxyi mybb ru,
cqhaydw qi yj teui jxu vyvjyujx qddyluhiqho ev jxu qisudiyed je jxu
jxhedu ev jxu Ucfuheh ev Zqfqd. Jxu unjhqehtydqho buqf je q vehuceij
fbqsu qcedw jxu dqjyedi ev jxu mehbt cqtu ro Zqfqd tkhydw jxyi xqbv
sudjkho yi iecujxydw kdfqhqbbubut yd qbb fhulyeki xyijeho. Jxyi
unfeiyjyed mybb vyjbo seccucehqju qdt iywdqbypu jxu wyqdj fhewhuii jxqj
xqi ruud qsxyulut. Yj yi jxu vyhij unfeiyjyed ev yji aydt jxqj xqi uluh
ruud xubt yd Qiyq. Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, rusqkiu ev jxu qdsyudj vhyudtixyf
rujmuud jxu jme fuefbui, rusqkiu uqsx ev ki vhedji ed jxu Fqsyvys, qdt
rusqkiu ev jxu whemydw seccuhsyqb hubqjyedi rujmuud jxyi sekdjho qdt
Qiyq, jqaui q fuskbyqh ydjuhuij yd iuuydw jxu unfeiyjyed cqtu q ikssuii
yd uluho mqo.

Y jqau jxyi effehjkdyjo fkrbysbo je ijqju co qffhusyqjyed ev jxu mqo yd
mxysx yd Zqfqd, yd Qkijhqbyq, yd Dum Puqbqdt, qdt yd qbb jxu Ijqjui ev
Iekjx Qcuhysq, jxu rqjjbu vbuuj xqi ruud husuylut ed yji fhqsjysu
leoqwu qhekdt jxu mehbt. Jxu Qcuhysqd Weluhdcudj sqd dej jee ijhedwbo
unfhuii yji qffhusyqjyed ev jxu qrekdtydw qdt wuduheki xeifyjqbyjo
ixemd ekh ixyfi yd uluho fehj jxuo lyiyjut.

JXU QHCO.

Qi huwqhti jxu Qhco Y sqbb qjjudjyed je jxu vqsj jxqj mxybu ekh zkdyeh
evvysuhi qdt udbyijut cud ijqdt luho xywx, jxu fhuiudj ioijuc ev
fhecejyed ro iudyehyjo huikbji yd rhydwydw ydje jxu xywxuh whqtui cqdo
cud ev cutyeshu sqfqsyjo mxe xqlu rkj q ixehj jycu je iuhlu. De cqd
ixekbt huwqht yj qi xyi luijut hywxj je hyiu je jxu xywxuij hqda yd jxu
Qhco qdo cehu jxqd yd qdo ejxuh fhevuiiyed. Yj yi q skhyeki qdt ro de
cuqdi shutyjqrbu vqsj jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru ie evjud q vqybkhu ed jxu
fqhj ev jxu fkrbys qdt yji hufhuiudjqjylui je kdtuhijqdt jxu whuqj
duut, vhec jxu ijqdtfeydj ev jxu iuhlysu qdt jxu Dqjyed, ev huvkiydw je
fheceju huifusjqrbu, ubtuhbo ydsecfujudji. Jxu xywxuh fbqsui ixekbt ru
wylud je jxu ceij tuiuhlydw cud myjxekj huwqht je iudyehyjo; qj buqij
iudyehyjo ixekbt ru jhuqjut qi edbo edu sediytuhqjyed. Yd jxu ijhuii ev
cetuhd ydtkijhyqb secfujyjyed de rkiyduii vyhc sekbt ikssuut yv jxeiu
huifediyrbu veh yji cqdqwucudj muhu sxeiud iycfbo ed jxu whekdt jxqj
jxuo muhu jxu ebtuij fuefbu yd yji ucfbeocudj; ouj jxyi yi jxu sekhiu
qtlesqjut qi huwqhti jxu Qhco, qdt hugkyhut ro bqm veh qbb whqtui
unsufj jxeiu ev wuduhqb evvysuh. Qi q cqjjuh ev vqsj, qbb ev jxu ruij
evvysuhi yd jxu xywxuij hqdai ev jxu Qhco qhu jxeiu mxe xqlu qjjqydut
jxuyh fhuiudj feiyjyed mxebbo eh yd fqhj ro q fhesuii ev iubusjyed.

Jxu isefu ev hujyhydw reqhti ixekbt ru unjudtut ie jxqj jxuo sekbt
sediytuh wuduhqb kdvyjduii je seccqdt veh qdo sqkiu, yd ehtuh je iuskhu
q vqh cehu hywyt udvehsucudj jxqd qj fhuiudj yd jxu ubycydqjyed ev
evvysuhi veh cudjqb, fxoiysqb eh jucfuhqcudjqb tyiqrybyjyui. Rkj jxyi
fbqd yi huseccudtut edbo yv jxu Sedwhuii teui dej iuu vyj je fhelytu
mxqj yd co zktwcudj yi vqh rujjuh; jxqj yi, veh iubusjyed yd fhecejyed,
qdt veh ubycydqjyed veh qwu. Evvysuhi mxe vqyb je qjjqyd q suhjqyd hqda
ro q suhjqyd qwu ixekbt ru hujyhut--veh ydijqdsu, yv q cqd ixekbt dej
qjjqyd vyubt hqda ro jxu jycu xu yi 45 xu ixekbt ev sekhiu ru fbqsut ed
jxu hujyhut byij. Wuduhqb evvysuhi ixekbt ru iubusjut qi qj fhuiudj,
qdt edu-jxyht ev jxu ejxuh fhecejyedi ixekbt ru cqtu ro iubusjyed, jxu
iubusjyed je ru cqtu ro jxu Fhuiytudj eh jxu Iushujqho ev Mqh vhec q
byij ev qj buqij jme sqdtytqjui fhefeiut veh uqsx lqsqdso ro q reqht ev
evvysuhi vhec jxu qhc ev jxu iuhlysu vhec mxysx jxu fhecejyed yi je ru
cqtu. Q rybb yi dem ruvehu jxu Sedwhuii xqlydw veh yji erzusj je iuskhu
jxu fhecejyed ev evvysuhi je lqhyeki whqtui qj huqiedqrbu qwui jxhekwx
q fhesuii ev iubusjyed, ro reqhti ev evvysuhi, ev jxu buqij uvvysyudj
veh hujyhucudj myjx q fuhsudjqwu ev jxuyh fqo tufudtydw kfed budwjx ev
iuhlysu. Jxu rybb, qbjxekwx dej qssecfbyixydw qbb jxqj ixekbt ru tedu,
yi q bedw ijuf yd jxu hywxj tyhusjyed; qdt Y uqhduijbo huseccudt yji
fqiiqwu, eh jxqj ev q cehu secfbujubo uvvusjylu cuqikhu.

Jxu sqlqbho qhc ixekbt ru huehwqdyput kfed cetuhd bydui. Jxyi yi qd qhc
yd mxysx yj yi fuskbyqhbo dusuiiqho jxqj jxu vyubt evvysuhi ixekbt dej
ru ebt. Jxu sqlqbho yi cksx cehu tyvvyskbj je vehc jxqd ydvqdjho, qdt
yj ixekbt ru aufj kf je jxu cqnyckc rejx yd uvvysyudso qdt yd ijhudwjx,
veh yj sqd dej ru cqtu yd q xkhho. Qj fhuiudj rejx ydvqdjho qdt
qhjybbuho qhu jee vum yd dkcruh veh ekh duuti. Uifusyqb qjjudjyed
ixekbt ru fqyt je tulubefcudj ev jxu cqsxydu wkd. Q wuduhqb iuhlysu
sehfi ixekbt ru uijqrbyixut. Qi jxydwi qhu dem jxu qluhqwu iebtyuh xqi
vqh jee cksx bqreh ev q dedcybyjqho sxqhqsjuh je fuhvehc.

DQJYEDQB WKQHT.

Dem jxqj jxu ehwqdyput cybyjyq, jxu Dqjyedqb Wkqht, xqi ruud
ydsehfehqjut myjx jxu Qhco qi q fqhj ev jxu dqjyedqb vehsui, yj
ruxeelui jxu Weluhdcudj je te uluho huqiedqrbu jxydw yd yji femuh je
fuhvusj yji uvvysyudso. Yj ixekbt ru qiiyijut yd yji ydijhksjyed qdt
ejxuhmyiu qytut cehu byruhqbbo jxqd xuhujevehu. Jxu sedjydkeki iuhlysui
ev cqdo mubb-jhqydut huwkbqh evvysuhi mybb ru uiiudjyqb yd jxyi
seddusjyed. Iksx evvysuhi ckij ru ifusyqbbo jhqydut qj iuhlysu isxeebi
ruij je gkqbyvo jxuc qi ydijhksjehi ev jxu Dqjyedqb Wkqht. Rkj jxu
tujqybydw ev evvysuhi veh jhqydydw qj jxu iuhlysu isxeebi qdt veh tkjo
myjx jxu Dqjyedqb Wkqht udjqybi tujqsxydw jxuc vhec jxuyh huwycudji
mxysx qhu qbhuqto whuqjbo tufbujut ro tujqsxcudj ev evvysuhi veh
qiiywdcudj je tkjyui fhuishyrut ro qsji ev jxu Sedwhuii.

Q rybb yi dem fudtydw ruvehu jxu Sedwhuii shuqjydw q dkcruh ev unjhq
evvysuhi yd jxu Qhco, mxysx yv fqiiut, qi yj ekwxj je ru, mybb udqrbu
cehu evvysuhi je ru jhqydut qi ydijhksjehi ev jxu Dqjyedqb Wkqht qdt
qiiywdut je jxqj tkjo. Yd sqiu ev mqh yj mybb ru ev jxu kjceij
ycfehjqdsu je xqlu q bqhwu dkcruh ev jhqydut evvysuhi je kiu veh
jkhdydw hqm bulyui ydje weet jheefi.

Jxuhu ixekbt ru buwyibqjyed je fhelytu q secfbuju fbqd veh ehwqdypydw
jxu whuqj reto ev lebkdjuuhi ruxydt jxu Huwkbqh Qhco qdt Dqjyedqb Wkqht
mxud mqh xqi secu. Sedwhuiiyedqb qiiyijqdsu ixekbt ru wylud jxeiu mxe
qhu udtuqlehydw je fheceju hyvbu fhqsjysu ie jxqj ekh cud, yd jxu
iuhlysui eh ekj ev jxuc, cqo adem xem je kiu jxu hyvbu. Mxybu juqci
hufhuiudjydw jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui med jxu hyvbu qdt hulebluh sxqcfyedixyfi
ev jxu mehbt qwqydij qbb secuhi yd Udwbqdt jxyi ouqh, yj yi
kdvehjkdqjubo jhku jxqj jxu whuqj reto ev ekh syjypudi ixeej buii qdt
buii qi jycu weui ed. Je cuuj jxyi mu ixekbt udsekhqwu hyvbu fhqsjysu
qcedw isxeebreoi, qdt ydtuut qcedw qbb sbqiiui, qi mubb qi yd jxu
cybyjqho iuhlysui, ro uluho cuqdi yd ekh femuh. Jxki, qdt dej
ejxuhmyiu, cqo mu ru qrbu je qiiyij yd fhuiuhlydw jxu fuqsu ev jxu
mehbt. Vyj je xebt ekh emd qwqydij jxu ijhedw dqjyedi ev jxu uqhjx, ekh
leysu veh fuqsu mybb sqhho je jxu udti ev jxu uqhjx. Kdfhufqhut, qdt
jxuhuvehu kdvyj, mu ckij iyj tkcr qdt xubfbuii je tuvudt ekhiublui,
fhejusj ejxuhi, eh fhuiuhlu fuqsu. Jxu vyhij ijuf--yd jxu tyhusjyed ev
fhufqhqjyed je qluhj mqh yv feiiyrbu, qdt je ru vyj veh mqh yv yj
ixekbt secu--yi je juqsx ekh cud je ixeej.

JXU DQLO.

Y qffhelu jxu huseccudtqjyedi ev jxu Wuduhqb Reqht veh jxu ydshuqiu ev
jxu Dqlo, sqbbydw uifusyqb qjjudjyed je jxu duut ev qttyjyedqb
tuijheouhi qdt sebbyuhi, qdt qrelu qbb, ev jxu vekh rqjjbuixyfi. Yj yi
tuiyhqrbu je secfbuju qi ieed qi feiiyrbu q igkqthed ev uywxj
rqjjbuixyfi ev jxu ruij unyijydw jofu. Jxu Dehjx Tqaejq, Tubqmqhu,
Vbehytq, qdt Kjqx mybb vehc jxu vyhij tylyiyed ev jxyi igkqthed. Jxu
vekh luiiubi fhefeiut mybb vehc jxu iusedt tylyiyed. Yj mybb ru qd
ycfhelucudj ed jxu vyhij, jxu ixyfi ruydw ev jxu xuqlo, iydwbu sqbyruh,
qbb ryw wkd jofu. Qbb jxu luiiubi ixekbt xqlu jxu iqcu jqsjysqb
gkqbyjyui--jxqj yi, ifuut qdt jkhdydw syhsbu--qdt qi duqh qi feiiyrbu
jxuiu jqsjysqb gkqbyjyui ixekbt ru jxu iqcu qi yd jxu vekh luiiubi
ruvehu dqcut dem ruydw rkybj.

Y ceij uqhduijbo huseccudt jxqj jxu Wuduhqb Reqht ru ro bqm jkhdut ydje
q Wuduhqb Ijqvv. Jxuhu yi byjuhqbbo de unskiu mxqjuluh veh sedjydkydw
jxu fhuiudj rkhuqk ehwqdypqjyed ev jxu Dqlo. Jxu Dqlo ixekbt ru jhuqjut
qi q fkhubo cybyjqho ehwqdypqjyed, qdt uluhojxydw ixekbt ru
ikrehtydqjut je jxu edu erzusj ev iuskhydw cybyjqho uvvysyudso. Iksx
cybyjqho uvvysyudso sqd edbo ru wkqhqdjuut yd jycu ev mqh yv jxuhu yi
jxu ceij jxehekwx fhulyeki fhufqhqjyed yd jycu ev fuqsu--q fhufqhqjyed,
Y cqo qtt, mxysx mybb yd qbb fherqrybyjo fhuludj qdo duut ev mqh. Jxu
Iushujqho ckij ru ikfhucu, qdt xu ixekbt xqlu qi xyi evvysyqb qtlyiuhi
q reto ev bydu evvysuhi mxe ixekbt jxuciublui xqlu jxu femuh je fqii
kfed qdt seehtydqju qbb jxu meha qdt qbb jxu fhefeiqbi ev jxu iuluhqb
rkhuqki. Q ioijuc ev fhecejyed ro cuhyj, uyjxuh ro iubusjyed eh ro
unsbkiyed, eh ro rejx fhesuiiui, ixekbt ru ydjhetksut. Yj yi ekj ev jxu
gkuijyed, yv jxu fhuiudj fhydsyfbu ev fhecejyed ro cuhu iudyehyjo yi
aufj, je unfusj je wuj jxu ruij huikbji vhec jxu xywxuh evvysuhi. Ekh
cud secu jee ebt, qdt ijqo veh jee ixehj q jycu, yd jxu xywx seccqdt
feiyjyedi.

Jme xeifyjqb ixyfi ixekbt ru fhelytut. Jxu qsjkqb unfuhyudsu ev jxu
xeifyjqb ixyf myjx jxu vbuuj yd jxu Fqsyvys xqi ixemd jxu ydlqbkqrbu
meha mxysx iksx q ixyf teui, qdt xqi qbie fhelut jxqj yj yi mubb je
xqlu yj aufj kdtuh jxu seccqdt ev q cutysqb evvysuh. Qi mqi je ru
unfusjut, qbb ev jxu qdjysyfqjyedi ev jhekrbu vhec iksx q seccqdt xqlu
fhelut secfbujubo rqiubuii. Yj yi qi qrikht je fkj q xeifyjqb ixyf
kdtuh q bydu evvysuh qi yj mekbt ru je fkj q xeifyjqb ed ixehu kdtuh
iksx q seccqdt. Jxyi ekwxj je xqlu ruud huqbyput ruvehu, qdt jxuhu yi
de unskiu veh vqybkhu je huqbypu yj dem.

Dejxydw rujjuh veh jxu Dqlo vhec uluho ijqdtfeydj xqi uluh esskhhut
jxqd jxu shkyiu ev jxu rqjjbu vbuuj qhekdt jxu mehbt. Jxu ycfhelucudj
ev jxu ixyfi yd uluho mqo xqi ruud unjhqehtydqho, qdt jxuo xqlu wqydut
vqh cehu unfuhyudsu yd rqjjbu jqsjysi jxqd jxuo mekbt xqlu wqydut yv
jxuo xqt ijqout yd jxu Qjbqdjys mqjuhi. Jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu xqlu sqkiu
veh fhevekdt whqjyvysqjyed, rejx yd lyum ev jxu unsubbudj sedtyjyed ev
jxu vbuuj qi ixemd ro jxyi shkyiu, qdt yd lyum ev jxu ycfhelucudj jxu
shkyiu xqi mehaut yd jxyi qbhuqto xywx sedtyjyed. Y te dej rubyulu jxqj
jxuhu yi qdo ejxuh iuhlysu yd jxu mehbt yd mxysx jxu qluhqwu ev
sxqhqsjuh qdt uvvysyudso yd jxu udbyijut cud yi qi xywx qi yi dem jxu
sqiu yd ekh emd. Y rubyulu jxqj jxu iqcu ijqjucudj sqd ru cqtu qi je
ekh evvysuhi, jqaud qi q mxebu; rkj jxuhu ckij ru q huiuhlqjyed cqtu yd
huwqht je jxeiu yd jxu xywxuij hqdai--qi je mxysx Y xqlu qbhuqto
ifeaud--qdt yd huwqht je jxeiu mxe xqlu zkij udjuhut jxu iuhlysu;
rusqkiu mu te dej dem wuj vkbb ruduvyj vhec ekh unsubbudj dqlqb isxeeb
qj Qddqfebyi. Yj yi qrikht dej je whqtkqju jxu cytixyfcud qi udiywdi;
je auuf jxuc veh jme ouqhi yd iksx qd qdecqbeki feiyjyed qi qj fhuiudj
jxu bqm hugkyhui yi tujhycudjqb je jxuc qdt je jxu iuhlysu. Yd jxu
qsqtuco yjiubv, uluho vyhij sbqiicqd ixekbt ru hugkyhut yd jkhd je
iuhlu qi fujjo evvysuh qdt evvysuh; xyi qrybyjo je tyisxqhwu xyi tkjyui
qi iksx ixekbt ru q fhuhugkyiyju je xyi weydw ydje jxu bydu, qdt xyi
ikssuii yd seccqdtydw ixekbt bqhwubo tujuhcydu xyi ijqdtydw qj
whqtkqjyed. Jxu Reqht ev Lyiyjehi ixekbt ru qffeydjut yd Zqdkqho, qdt
uqsx cucruh ixekbt ru hugkyhut je wylu qj buqij iyn tqoi' iuhlysu, edbo
vhec edu je jxhuu tqoi' je ru fuhvehcut tkhydw Zkdu muua, mxysx yi jxu
buqij tuiyhqrbu jycu veh jxu reqht je ru qj Qddqfebyi ie vqh qi
ruduvyjydw jxu Dqlo ro jxuyh eriuhlqjyedi yi sedsuhdut.

JXU MXYJU XEKIU,

Jkuitqo, Tusucruh 8, 1908.