Mh max Lxgtmx tgw Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl:

Gh gtmbhg atl zkxtmxk kxlhnkvxl matg hnkl, tgw B mabgd bm vtg ux
mknmayneer ltbw matm max vbmbsxgl hy gh gtmbhg ihllxll zkxtmxk xgxkzr
tgw bgwnlmkbte tubebmr. Bg gh gtmbhg tkx max yngwtfxgmte unlbgxll
vhgwbmbhgl lhngwxk matg bg hnkl tm mabl oxkr fhfxgm; tgw bm bl yhhebla,
paxg lnva bl max vtlx, yhk ixhiex mh ahtkw fhgxr bglmxtw hy dxxibgz bm
bg lhngw utgdl; yhk bm bl lnva ahtkwbgz matm bl max bffxwbtmx hvvtlbhg
hy fhgxr lmkbgzxgvr. Fhkxhoxk, tl t knex, max unlbgxll hy hnk ixhiex bl
vhgwnvmxw pbma ahgxlmr tgw ikhubmr, tgw mabl tiiebxl tebdx mh ytkfl tgw
ytvmhkbxl, mh ktbekhtwl tgw utgdl, mh tee hnk exzbmbftmx vhffxkvbte
xgmxkikblxl.

Bg tgr etkzx uhwr hy fxg, ahpxoxk, maxkx tkx vxkmtbg mh ux lhfx pah tkx
wblahgxlm, tgw by max vhgwbmbhgl tkx lnva matm maxlx fxg ikhlixk hk
vhffbm maxbk fblwxxwl pbma bfingbmr, maxbk xqtfiex bl t oxkr xobe mabgz
yhk max vhffngbmr. Paxkx maxlx fxg tkx unlbgxll fxg hy zkxtm ltztvbmr
tgw hy mxfixktfxgm uhma nglvkninehnl tgw kxvdexll, tgw paxkx max
vhgwbmbhgl tkx lnva matm maxr tvm pbmahnm lnixkoblbhg hk vhgmkhe tgw tm
ybklm pbmahnm xyyxvmbox vaxvd ykhf inuebv hibgbhg, maxr wxenwx ftgr
bgghvxgm ixhiex bgmh ftdbgz bgoxlmfxgml hk xfutkdbgz bg dbgwl hy
unlbgxll matm tkx kxteer nglhngw. Paxg max fblwxxwl hy maxlx
lnvvxllyneer wblahgxlm fxg tkx wblvhoxkxw, lnyyxkbgz vhfxl ghm hger
nihg maxf, unm nihg max bgghvxgm fxg pahf maxr atox fblexw. Bm bl t
itbgyne tptdxgbgz, paxgxoxk bm hvvnkl; tgw, gtmnkteer, paxg bm whxl
hvvnk mahlx pah lnyyxk tkx tim mh yhkzxm matm max ehgzxk bm ptl
wxyxkkxw max fhkx itbgyne bm phnew ux. Bg max xyyhkm mh ingbla max
znbemr bm bl uhma pblx tgw ikhixk mh xgwxtohk lh ytk tl ihllbuex mh
fbgbfbsx max wblmkxll hy mahlx pah atox uxxg fblexw ur max znbemr. Rxm
bm bl ghm ihllbuex mh kxyktbg uxvtnlx hy lnva wblmkxll ykhf lmkbobgz mh
inm tg xgw mh max fblwxxwl matm tkx max nembftmx vtnlxl hy max
lnyyxkbgz, tgw, tl t fxtgl mh mabl xgw, paxkx ihllbuex mh ingbla mahlx
kxlihglbuex yhk maxf. Maxkx ftr ux ahgxlm wbyyxkxgvxl hy hibgbhg tl mh
ftgr zhoxkgfxgmte ihebvbxl; unm lnkxer maxkx vtg ux gh lnva wbyyxkxgvxl
tl mh max gxxw hy ngyebgvabgz ixklxoxktgvx bg max ptk tztbglm
lnvvxllyne wblahgxlmr.

Bg fr Fxlltzx mh max Vhgzkxll hg Wxvxfuxk 5, 1905, B ltbw:

"By max yheer hy ftg ftkl max zxgxkte pxee-uxbgz, maxg mahlx pah tkx
bgghvxgm hy max yheer pbee atox mh itr itkm hy max ixgtemr bgvnkkxw ur
mahlx pah tkx znbemr hy max yheer. T itgbv ukhnzam hg ur max
lixvnetmbox yheer hy itkm hy max unlbgxll vhffngbmr phnew ankm max
pahex unlbgxll vhffngbmr; unm lnva lmhiitzx hy pxeytkx, mahnza bm fbzam
ux lxoxkx, phnew ghm ux etlmbgz. Bg max ehgz kng, max hgx obmte ytvmhk
bg max ixkftgxgm ikhlixkbmr hy max vhngmkr bl max abza bgwbobwnte
vatktvmxk hy max toxktzx Tfxkbvtg phkdxk, max toxktzx Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxg,
gh ftmmxk paxmaxk abl phkd ux fxgmte hk ftgnte, paxmaxk ax ux ytkfxk hk
ptzx-phkdxk, unlbgxll ftg hk ikhyxllbhgte ftg.

"Bg hnk bgwnlmkbte tgw lhvbte lrlmxf max bgmxkxlml hy tee fxg tkx lh
vehlxer bgmxkmpbgxw matm bg max bffxglx ftchkbmr hy vtlxl t
lmktbzam-wxtebgz ftg, pah ur abl xyybvbxgvr, ur abl bgzxgnbmr tgw
bgwnlmkr, uxgxybml abflxey, fnlm telh uxgxybm hmaxkl. Ghkfteer, max ftg
hy zkxtm ikhwnvmbox vtitvbmr pah uxvhfxl kbva ur znbwbgz max etuhk hy
ftgr hmaxk fxg whxl lh ur xgtuebgz maxf mh ikhwnvx fhkx matg maxr vhnew
ikhwnvx pbmahnm abl znbwtgvx; tgw uhma ax tgw maxr latkx bg max
uxgxybm, pabva vhfxl telh mh max inuebv tm etkzx. Max lnixkybvbte ytvm
matm max latkbgz ftr ux ngxjnte fnlm gxoxk uebgw nl mh max ngwxkerbgz
ytvm matm maxkx bl mabl latkbgz, tgw matm max uxgxybm vhfxl bg lhfx
wxzkxx mh xtva ftg vhgvxkgxw.. Ghkfteer, max ptzxphkdxk, max ftg hy
lftee fxtgl, tgw max toxktzx vhglnfxk, tl pxee tl max toxktzx ikhwnvxk,
tkx tee tebdx axeixw ur ftdbgz vhgwbmbhgl lnva matm max ftg hy
xqvximbhgte unlbgxll tubebmr kxvxboxl tg xqvximbhgte kxptkw yhk abl
tubebmr Lhfxmabgz vtg ux whgx ur exzbletmbhg mh axei max zxgxkte
ikhlixkbmr; unm gh lnva axei hy t ixkftgxgmer uxgxybvbte vatktvmxk vtg
ux zboxg mh max exll tuex tgw exll yhkmngtmx ltox tl max kxlneml hy t
ihebvr pabva latee bgnkx mh max twotgmtzx hy tee bgwnlmkbhnl tgw
xyybvbxgm ixhiex pah tvm wxvxgmer; tgw mabl bl hger tghmaxk ptr hy
ltrbgz matm tgr uxgxybm pabva vhfxl mh max exll tuex tgw exll yhkmngtmx
fnlm hy gxvxllbmr vhfx xoxg fhkx mh max fhkx tuex tgw fhkx yhkmngtmx.
By, maxkxyhkx, max exll yhkmngtmx ftg bl fhoxw ur xgor hy abl fhkx
yhkmngtmx ukhmaxk mh lmkbdx tm max vhgwbmbhgl ngwxk pabva maxr atox
uhma, mahnza ngxjnteer, ikhlixkxw, max kxlnem pbee tllnkxwer ux matm
pabex wtftzx ftr vhfx mh max hgx lmknvd tm, bm pbee oblbm pbma tg xoxg
axtobxk ehtw max hgx pah lmkbdxl max uehp. Mtdxg tl t pahex, px fnlm
tee zh ni hk zh whpg mhzxmaxk.

"Rxm, pabex ghm fxkxer twfbmmbgz, unm bglblmbgz nihg mabl, bm bl telh
mknx matm paxkx maxkx bl gh zhoxkgfxgmte kxlmktbgm hk lnixkoblbhg lhfx
hy max xqvximbhgte fxg nlx maxbk xgxkzbxl, ghm bg ptrl matm tkx yhk max
vhffhg zhhw, unm bg ptrl pabva mxee tztbglm mabl vhffhg zhhw. Max
yhkmngxl tftllxw makhnza vhkihktmx hkztgbstmbhg tkx ghp lh etkzx, tgw
oxlm lnva ihpxk bg mahlx matm pbxew maxf, tl mh ftdx bm t ftmmxk hy
gxvxllbmr mh zbox mh max lhoxkxbzg--matm bl, mh max Zhoxkgfxgm, pabva
kxikxlxgml max ixhiex tl t pahex--lhfx xyyxvmbox ihpxk hy lnixkoblbhg
hoxk maxbk vhkihktmx nlx. Bg hkwxk mh bglnkx t axtemar lhvbte tgw
bgwnlmkbte ebyx, xoxkr ubz vhkihktmbhg lahnew ux axew kxlihglbuex ur,
tgw ux tvvhngmtuex mh, lhfx lhoxkxbzg lmkhgz xghnza mh vhgmkhe bml
vhgwnvm. B tf bg gh lxglx ahlmbex mh vhkihktmbhgl. Mabl bl tg tzx hy
vhfubgtmbhg, tgw tgr xyyhkm mh ikxoxgm tee vhfubgtmbhg pbee ux ghm hger
nlxexll, unm bg max xgw obvbhnl, uxvtnlx hy max vhgmxfim yhk etp pabva
max ytbenkx mh xgyhkvx etp bgxobmtuer ikhwnvxl. Px lahnew, fhkxhoxk,
kxvhzgbsx bg vhkwbte tgw tfiex ytlabhg max bffxglx zhhw xyyxvmxw ur
vhkihktmx tzxgvbxl bg t vhngmkr lnva tl hnkl, tgw max pxtema hy
bgmxeexvm, xgxkzr, tgw ybwxebmr wxohmxw mh maxbk lxkobvx, tgw maxkxyhkx
ghkfteer mh max lxkobvx hy max inuebv, ur maxbk hyybvxkl tgw wbkxvmhkl.
Max vhkihktmbhg atl vhfx mh lmtr, cnlm tl max mktwx ngbhg atl vhfx mh
lmtr. Xtva vtg wh tgw atl whgx zkxtm zhhw. Xtva lahnew ux ytohkxw lh
ehgz tl bm whxl zhhw. Unm xtva lahnew ux latkier vaxvdxw paxkx bm tvml
tztbglm etp tgw cnlmbvx.

"Max ftdxkl hy hnk Gtmbhgte Vhglmbmnmbhg ikhobwxw xlixvbteer matm max
kxznetmbhg hy bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx lahnew vhfx pbmabg max liaxkx hy max
Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm. Max tkznfxgml bg ytohk hy maxbk mtdbgz mabl lmtgw
pxkx xoxg maxg hoxkpaxefbgz. Unm maxr tkx ytk lmkhgzxk mh-wtr, bg obxp
hy max xghkfhnl wxoxehifxgm hy zkxtm unlbgxll tzxgvbxl, nlnteer
vhkihktmx bg yhkf. Xqixkbxgvx atl lahpg vhgvenlboxer matm bm bl nlxexll
mh mkr mh zxm tgr twxjntmx kxznetmbhg tgw lnixkoblbhg hy maxlx zkxtm
vhkihktmbhgl ur Lmtmx tvmbhg. Lnva kxznetmbhg tgw lnixkoblbhg vtg hger
ux xyyxvmboxer xqxkvblxw ur t lhoxkxbzg pahlx cnkblwbvmbhg bl
vhxqmxglbox pbma max ybxew hy phkd hy max vhkihktmbhgl--matm bl, ur max
Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm. B uxebxox matm mabl kxznetmbhg tgw lnixkoblbhg vtg
ux humtbgxw ur max xgtvmfxgm hy etp ur max Vhgzkxll. Hnk lmxtwr tbf
lahnew ux ur exzbletmbhg, vtnmbhnler tgw vtkxyneer ngwxkmtdxg, unm
kxlhenmxer ixklxoxkxw bg, mh tllxkm max lhoxkxbzgmr hy max Gtmbhgte
Zhoxkgfxgm ur tyybkftmbox tvmbhg.

"Mabl bl hger bg yhkf tg bgghotmbhg. Bg lnulmtgvx bm bl fxkxer t
kxlmhktmbhg; yhk ykhf max xtkebxlm mbfx lnva kxznetmbhg hy bgwnlmkbte
tvmbobmbxl atl uxxg kxvhzgbsxw bg max tvmbhg hy max etpftdbgz uhwbxl;
tgw tee matm B ikhihlx bl mh fxxm max vatgzxw vhgwbmbhgl bg lnva ftggxk
tl pbee ikxoxgm max Vhffhgpxtema tuwbvtmbgz max ihpxk bm atl teptrl
ihllxllxw, ghm hger bg mabl vhngmkr, unm telh bg Xgzetgw uxyhkx tgw
lbgvx mabl vhngmkr uxvtfx t lxitktmx gtmbhg.

"Bm atl uxxg t fblyhkmngx matm max Gtmbhgte etpl hg mabl lnucxvm atox
abmaxkmh uxxg hy t gxztmbox hk ikhabubmbox ktmaxk matg tg tyybkftmbox
dbgw, tgw lmbee fhkx matm maxr atox bg itkm lhnzam mh ikhabubm patm
vhnew ghm ux xyyxvmboxer ikhabubmxw, tgw atox bg itkm bg maxbk
ikhabubmbhgl vhgyhngwxw patm lahnew ux teehpxw tgw patm lahnew ghm ux
teehpxw. Bm bl zxgxkteer nlxexll mh mkr mh ikhabubm tee kxlmktbgm hg
vhfixmbmbhg, paxmaxk mabl kxlmktbgm ux kxtlhgtuex hk ngkxtlhgtuex; tgw
paxkx bm bl ghm nlxexll bm bl zxgxkteer ankmyne. Max lnvvxllyne
ikhlxvnmbhg hy hgx wxobvx mh xotwx max etp bffxwbtmxer wxoxehil tghmaxk
wxobvx mh tvvhfiebla max ltfx inkihlx. Patm bl gxxwxw bl ghm lpxxibgz
ikhabubmbhg hy xoxkr tkktgzxfxgm, zhhw hk utw, pabva ftr mxgw mh
kxlmkbvm vhfixmbmbhg, unm lnva twxjntmx lnixkoblbhg tgw kxznetmbhg tl
pbee ikxoxgm tgr kxlmkbvmbhg hy vhfixmbmbhg ykhf uxbgz mh max wxmkbfxgm
hy max inuebv, tl pxee tl lnva lnixkoblbhg tgw kxznetmbhg tl pbee
ikxoxgm hmaxk tunlxl bg gh ptr vhggxvmxw pbma kxlmkbvmbhg hy
vhfixmbmbhg."

B atox vteexw rhnk tmmxgmbhg bg maxlx jnhmtmbhgl mh patm B atox tekxtwr
ltbw uxvtnlx B tf ltmblybxw matm bm bl max wnmr hy max Gtmbhgte
Zhoxkgfxgm mh xfuhwr bg tvmbhg max ikbgvbiexl manl xqikxllxw.

Gh lftee itkm hy max mkhnuex matm px atox vhfxl ykhf vtkkrbgz mh tg
xqmkxfx max gtmbhgte obkmnx hy lxey-kxebtgvx, hy bgwxixgwxgvx bg
bgbmbtmbox tgw tvmbhg. Bm bl pblx mh vhglxkox mabl obkmnx tgw mh
ikhobwx yhk bml yneexlm xqxkvblx, vhfitmbuex pbma lxxbgz matm ebuxkmr
whxl ghm uxvhfx t ebuxkmr mh pkhgz hmaxkl. Ngyhkmngtmxer, mabl bl max
dbgw hy ebuxkmr matm max etvd hy tee xyyxvmbox kxznetmbhg bgxobmtuer
ukxxwl. Max yhngwxkl hy max Vhglmbmnmbhg ikhobwxw matm max Gtmbhgte
Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew atox vhfiexmx tgw lhex vhgmkhe hy bgmxklmtmx
vhffxkvx. Maxkx ptl maxg iktvmbvteer gh bgmxklmtmx unlbgxll ltox lnva
tl ptl vhgwnvmxw ur ptmxk, tgw mabl max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm tm hgvx
ikhvxxwxw mh kxznetmx bg mahkhnzazhbgz tgw xyyxvmbox ytlabhg.
Vhgwbmbhgl atox ghp lh paheer vatgzxw matm max bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx ur
ptmxk bl bglbzgbybvtgm vhfitkxw pbma max tfhngm matm zhxl ur etgw, tgw
tefhlm tee ubz unlbgxll vhgvxkgl tkx ghp xgztzxw bg bgmxklmtmx
vhffxkvx. Tl t kxlnem, bm vtg ux unm itkmbteer tgw bfixkyxvmer
vhgmkheexw hk kxznetmxw ur max tvmbhg hy tgr hgx hy max lxoxkte Lmtmxl;
lnva tvmbhg bgxobmtuer mxgwbgz mh ux xbmaxk mhh wktlmbv hk xelx mhh
etq, tgw bg xbmaxk vtlx bgxyyxvmbox yhk inkihlxl hy cnlmbvx. Hger max
Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm vtg bg mahkhnzazhbgz ytlabhg xqxkvblx max gxxwxw
vhgmkhe. Mabl whxl ghm fxtg matm maxkx lahnew ux tgr xqmxglbhg hy
Yxwxkte tnmahkbmr, yhk lnva tnmahkbmr tekxtwr xqblml ngwxk max
Vhglmbmnmbhg bg tfiexlm tgw fhlm ytk-kxtvabgz yhkf; unm bm whxl fxtg
matm maxkx lahnew ux tg xqmxglbhg hy Yxwxkte tvmbobmr. Mabl bl ghm
twohvtmbgz vxgmktebstmbhg. Bm bl fxkxer ehhdbgz ytvml bg max ytvx, tgw
kxtebsbgz matm vxgmktebstmbhg bg unlbgxll atl tekxtwr vhfx tgw vtg ghm
ux tohbwxw hk ngwhgx, tgw matm max inuebv tm etkzx vtg hger ikhmxvm
bmlxey ykhf vxkmtbg xobe xyyxvml hy mabl unlbgxll vxgmktebstmbhg ur
ikhobwbgz uxmmxk fxmahwl yhk max xqxkvblx hy vhgmkhe makhnza max
tnmahkbmr tekxtwr vxgmktebsxw bg max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm ur max
Vhglmbmnmbhg bmlxey. Maxkx fnlm ux gh utee bg max axtemar vhglmknvmbox
vhnklx hy tvmbhg pabva mabl Gtmbhg atl xexvmxw mh inklnx, tgw atl
lmxtwber inklnxw, wnkbgz max etlm lbq rxtkl, tl lahpg uhma bg max
exzbletmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll tgw max twfbgblmktmbhg hy max etp ur max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx. Max fhlm obmte gxxw bl bg vhggxvmbhg pbma max
ktbekhtwl. Tl mh maxlx, bg fr cnwzfxgm maxkx lahnew ghp ux xbmaxk t
gtmbhgte bgvhkihktmbhg tvm hk t etp ebvxglbgz ktbeptr vhfitgbxl mh
xgztzx bg bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx nihg vxkmtbg vhgwbmbhgl. Max etp lahnew
ux lh yktfxw tl mh zbox mh max Bgmxklmtmx Vhffxkvx Vhffbllbhg ihpxk mh
itll nihg max ynmnkx bllnx hy lxvnkbmbxl, pabex tfiex fxtgl lahnew ux
ikhobwxw mh xgtuex max Vhffbllbhg, paxgxoxk bg bml cnwzfxgm bm bl
gxvxlltkr, mh ftdx t iarlbvte otentmbhg hy tgr ktbekhtw. Tl B lmtmxw bg
fr Fxlltzx mh max Vhgzkxll t rxtk tzh, ktbekhtwl lahnew ux zboxg ihpxk
mh xgmxk bgmh tzkxxfxgml, lnucxvm mh maxlx tzkxxfxgml uxbgz ftwx inuebv
bg fbgnmx wxmtbe tgw mh max vhglxgm hy max Bgmxklmtmx Vhffxkvx
Vhffbllbhg uxbgz ybklm humtbgxw. Ngmbe max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm tllnfxl
ikhixk vhgmkhe hy bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx, bg max xqxkvblx hy max tnmahkbmr
bm tekxtwr ihllxllxl, bm pbee ux bfihllbuex xbmaxk mh zbox mh hk mh zxm
ykhf max ktbekhtwl ynee cnlmbvx. Max ktbekhtwl tgw tee hmaxk zkxtm
vhkihktmbhgl pbee wh pxee mh kxvhzgbsx matm mabl vhgmkhe fnlm vhfx; max
hger jnxlmbhg bl tl mh patm zhoxkgfxgmte uhwr vtg fhlm pblxer xqxkvblx
bm. Max vhnkml pbee wxmxkfbgx max ebfbml pbmabg pabva max Yxwxkte
tnmahkbmr vtg xqxkvblx bm, tgw maxkx pbee lmbee kxftbg tfiex phkd
pbmabg xtva Lmtmx yhk max ktbeptr vhffbllbhg hy matm Lmtmx; tgw max
Gtmbhgte Bgmxklmtmx Vhffxkvx Vhffbllbhg pbee phkd bg atkfhgr pbma max
lxoxkte Lmtmx vhffbllbhgl, xtva pbmabg bml hpg ikhobgvx, mh tvabxox max
wxlbkxw xgw.

Fhkxhoxk, bg fr cnwzfxgm maxkx lahnew ux twwbmbhgte exzbletmbhg ehhdbgz
mh max ikhixk vhgmkhe hy max zkxtm unlbgxll vhgvxkgl xgztzxw bg
bgmxklmtmx unlbgxll, mabl vhgmkhe mh ux xqxkvblxw yhk maxbk hpg uxgxybm
tgw ikhlixkbmr gh exll matg yhk max ikhmxvmbhg hy bgoxlmhkl tgw hy max
zxgxkte inuebv. Tl B atox kxixtmxwer ltbw bg Fxlltzxl mh max Vhgzkxll
tgw xelxpaxkx, xqixkbxgvx atl wxybgbmxer lahpg ghm fxkxer max ngpblwhf
unm max ynmbebmr hy xgwxtohkbgz mh inm t lmhi mh tee unlbgxll
vhfubgtmbhgl. Fhwxkg bgwnlmkbte vhgwbmbhgl tkx lnva matm vhfubgtmbhg bl
ghm hger gxvxlltkr unm bgxobmtuex. Bm bl lh bg max phkew hy unlbgxll
cnlm tl bm bl lh bg max phkew hy etuhk, tgw bm bl tl bwex mh wxlbkx mh
inm tg xgw mh tee vhkihktmbhgl, mh tee ubz vhfubgtmbhgl hy vtibmte, tl
mh wxlbkx mh inm tg xgw mh vhfubgtmbhgl hy etuhk. Vhkihktmbhg tgw etuhk
ngbhg tebdx atox vhfx mh lmtr. Xtva by ikhixker ftgtzxw bl t lhnkvx hy
zhhw tgw ghm xobe. Paxgxoxk bg xbmaxk maxkx bl xobe, bm lahnew ux
ikhfimer axew mh tvvhngm; unm bm lahnew kxvxbox axtkmr xgvhnktzxfxgm lh
ehgz tl bm bl ikhixker ftgtzxw. Bm bl ikhyhngwer bffhkte mh inm hk dxxi
hg max lmtmnmx uhhdl t etp, ghfbgteer bg max bgmxkxlm hy inuebv
fhktebmr matm kxteer inml t ikxfbnf nihg inuebv bffhktebmr, ur
ngwxkmtdbgz mh yhkubw ahgxlm fxg ykhf whbgz patm fnlm ux whgx ngwxk
fhwxkg unlbgxll vhgwbmbhgl, lh matm max etp bmlxey ikhobwxl matm bml
hpg bgyktvmbhg fnlm ux max vhgwbmbhg ikxvxwxgm nihg unlbgxll lnvvxll.
Mh tbf tm max tvvhfieblafxgm hy mhh fnva nlnteer fxtgl max
tvvhfieblafxgm hy mhh ebmmex, tgw hymxg max whbgz hy ihlbmbox wtftzx.
Bg fr Fxlltzx mh max Vhgzkxll t rxtk tzh, bg lixtdbgz hy max tgmbmknlm
etpl, B ltbw:

"Max tvmnte phkdbgz hy hnk etpl atl lahpg matm max xyyhkm mh ikhabubm
tee vhfubgtmbhg, zhhw hk utw, bl ghqbhnl paxkx bm bl ghm bgxyyxvmbox.
Vhfubgtmbhg hy vtibmte, ebdx vhfubgtmbhg hy etuhk, bl t gxvxlltkr
xexfxgm bg hnk ikxlxgm bgwnlmkbte lrlmxf. Bm bl ghm ihllbuex vhfiexmxer
mh ikxoxgm bm; tgw by bm pxkx ihllbuex, lnva vhfiexmx ikxoxgmbhg phnew
wh wtftzx mh max uhwr ihebmbv. Patm px gxxw bl ghm otbger mh mkr mh
ikxoxgm tee vhfubgtmbhg, unm mh lxvnkx lnva kbzhkhnl tgw twxjntmx
vhgmkhe tgw lnixkoblbhg hy max vhfubgtmbhgl tl mh ikxoxgm maxbk
bgcnkbgz max inuebv, hk xqblmbgz bg lnva yhkfl tl bgxobmtuer mh
makxtmxg bgcnkr. Bm bl ngyhkmngtmx matm hnk ikxlxgm etpl lahnew yhkubw
tee vhfubgtmbhgl bglmxtw hy latkier wblvkbfbgtmbgz uxmpxxg mahlx
vhfubgtmbhgl pabva wh xobe. Hymxg ktbekhtwl phnew ebdx mh vhfubgx yhk
max inkihlx hy ikxoxgmbgz t ubz labiixk ykhf ftbgmtbgbgz bfikhixk
twotgmtzxl tm max xqixglx hy lftee labiixkl tgw hy max zxgxkte inuebv.
Lnva t vhfubgtmbhg, bglmxtw hy uxbgz yhkubwwxg ur etp, lahnew ux
ytohkxw. Bm bl t inuebv xobe mh atox hg max lmtmnmx uhhdl t etp
bgvtituex hy ynee xgyhkvxfxgm, uxvtnlx uhma cnwzxl tgw cnkbxl kxtebsx
matm bml ynee xgyhkvxfxgm phnew wxlmkhr max unlbgxll hy max vhngmkr;
yhk max kxlnem bl mh ftdx wxvxgm fxg obhetmhkl hy max etp tztbglm maxbk
pbee, tgw mh inm t ikxfbnf hg max uxatobhk hy max pbeeyne pkhgzwhxkl.
Lnva t kxlnem bg mnkg mxgwl mh makhp max wxvxgm ftg tgw max pbeeyne
pkhgzwhxk bgmh vehlx tllhvbtmbhg, tgw bg max xgw mh wktz whpg max
yhkfxk mh max etmmxk'l exoxe; yhk max ftg pah uxvhfxl t etpukxtdxk bg
hgx ptr ngatiiber mxgwl mh ehlx tee kxlixvm yhk etp tgw mh ux pbeebgz
mh ukxtd bm bg ftgr ptrl. Gh fhkx lvtmabgz vhgwxfgtmbhg vhnew ux
oblbmxw nihg t etp matg bl vhgmtbgxw bg max phkwl hy max Bgmxklmtmx
Vhffxkvx Vhffbllbhg paxg, bg vhffxgmbgz nihg max ytvm matm max gnfxkhnl
chbgm mktyybv tllhvbtmbhgl wh mxvagbvteer obhetmx max etp, maxr ltr:
Max wxvblbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl Lnikxfx Vhnkm bg max Mktgl-Fbllhnkb
vtlx tgw max Chbgm Mktyybv Tllhvbtmbhg vtlx atl ikhwnvxw gh iktvmbvte
xyyxvm nihg max ktbeptr hixktmbhgl hy max vhngmkr. Lnva tllhvbtmbhgl,
bg ytvm, xqblm ghp tl maxr wbw uxyhkx maxlx wxvblbhgl, tgw pbma max
ltfx zxgxkte xyyxvm. Bg cnlmbvx mh tee itkmbxl, px hnzam ikhutuer mh
tww matm bm bl wbyybvnem mh lxx ahp hnk bgmxklmtmx ktbeptrl vhnew ux
hixktmxw pbma wnx kxztkw mh max bgmxkxlm hy max labiixk tgw max ktbeptr
pbmahnm vhgvxkmxw tvmbhg hy max dbgw tyyhkwxw makhnza maxlx
tllhvbtmbhgl.

"Mabl fxtgl matm max etp tl vhglmknxw ur max Lnikxfx Vhnkm bl lnva matm
max unlbgxll hy max vhngmkr vtg ghm ux vhgwnvmxw pbmahnm ukxtdbgz bm."

Tl B atox xelxpaxkx ltbw:

"Tee mabl bl lnulmtgmbteer patm B atox ltbw hoxk tgw hoxk tztbg. Lnkxer
bm hnzam ghm mh ux gxvxlltkr mh ltr matm bm bg gh latix hk ptr
kxikxlxgml tgr ahlmbebmr mh vhkihktmbhgl tl lnva. Hg max vhgmktkr, bm
fxtgl t yktgd kxvhzgbmbhg hy max ytvm matm vhfubgtmbhgl hy vtibmte,
ebdx vhfubgtmbhgl hy etuhk, tkx t gtmnkte kxlnem hy fhwxkg vhgwbmbhgl
tgw hy hnk Gtmbhgte wxoxehifxgm. Tl ytk tl bg fr tubebmr ebxl fr
xgwxtohk bl tgw pbee ux mh ikxoxgm tunlx hy ihpxk ur xbmaxk tgw mh
ytohk uhma lh ehgz tl maxr wh pxee. Max tbf hy max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm
bl jnbmx tl fnva mh ytohk tgw ikhmxvm ahgxlm vhkihktmbhgl, ahgxlm
unlbgxll fxg hy pxtema, tl mh ukbgz mh cnlmbvx mahlx bgwbobwntel tgw
vhkihktmbhgl kxikxlxgmbgz wblahgxlm fxmahwl. Fhlm vxkmtbger maxkx pbee
ux gh kxetqtmbhg ur max Zhoxkgfxgm tnmahkbmbxl bg max xyyhkm mh zxm tm
tgr zkxtm ktbekhtw pkxvdxk--tgr ftg pah ur vexoxk lpbgwebgz wxobvxl
khul bgoxlmhkl, hiikxllxl ptzx-phkdxkl, tgw whxl bgcnlmbvx mh max
zxgxkte inuebv. Unm tgr lnva fhox tl mabl bl bg max bgmxkxlm hy ahgxlm
ktbeptr hixktmhkl, hy ahgxlm vhkihktmbhgl, tgw hy mahlx pah, paxg maxr
bgoxlm maxbk lftee ltobgzl bg lmhvdl tgw uhgwl, pbla mh ux tllnkxw matm
maxlx pbee kxikxlxgm fhgxr ahgxlmer xqixgwxw yhk exzbmbftmx unlbgxll
inkihlxl. Mh vhgyxk nihg max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm max ihpxk yhk pabva B
tld phnew ux t vaxvd nihg hoxkvtibmtebstmbhg tgw nihg max vexoxk
ztfuexkl pah uxgxybm ur hoxkvtibmtebstmbhg. Unm bm tehgx phnew fxtg tg
bgvkxtlx bg max otenx, tg bgvkxtlx bg max ltyxmr hy max lmhvdl tgw
uhgwl hy etp-tubwbgz, ahgxlmer ftgtzxw ktbekhtwl, tgw phnew kxgwxk bm
ytk xtlbxk mh ftkdxm maxbk lxvnkbmbxl. B uxebxox bg ikhixk inuebvbmr.
Maxkx atl uxxg vhfietbgm hy lhfx hy max bgoxlmbztmbhgl kxvxgmer vtkkbxw
hg, unm mahlx pah vhfietbg lahnew inm max uetfx paxkx bm uxehgzl--nihg
max fblwxxwl pabva tkx whgx bg wtkdgxll tgw ghm nihg max bgoxlmbztmbhgl
pabva ukhnzam maxf mh ebzam. Max Twfbgblmktmbhg bl kxlihglbuex yhk
mnkgbgz hg max ebzam, unm bm bl ghm kxlihglbuex yhk patm max ebzam
lahpxw. B tld yhk ynee ihpxk mh ux zboxg max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm,
uxvtnlx gh lbgzex Lmtmx vtg ur exzbletmbhg xyyxvmnteer vhix pbma maxlx
ihpxkyne vhkihktmbhgl xgztzxw bg bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx, tgw, pabex whbgz
maxf ynee cnlmbvx, xqtvm ykhf maxf bg kxmnkg ynee cnlmbvx mh hmaxkl.
Max vhgwbmbhgl hy ktbekhtw tvmbobmr, max vhgwbmbhgl hy hnk bffxglx
bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx, tkx lnva tl mh ftdx max Vxgmkte Zhoxkgfxgm tehgx
vhfixmxgm mh xqxkvblx ynee lnixkoblbhg tgw vhgmkhe.

"Max zktox tunlxl bg bgwbobwnte vtlxl hy ktbekhtw ftgtzxfxgm bg max
itlm kxikxlxgm pkhgzl ghm fxkxer mh max zxgxkte inuebv, unm, tuhox tee,
pkhgzl mh ytbk-wxtebgz tgw ahgxlm vhkihktmbhgl tgw fxg hy pxtema,
uxvtnlx maxr xqvbmx t ihinetk tgzxk tgw wblmknlm pabva ykhf max oxkr
gtmnkx hy max vtlx mxgwl mh bgvenwx bg max lpxxi hy bml kxlxgmfxgm zhhw
tgw utw tebdx. Ykhf max lmtgwihbgm hy max inuebv B vtg ghm mhh
xtkgxlmer ltr matm tl lhhg tl max gtmnkte tgw ikhixk kxlxgmfxgm tkhnlxw
ur maxlx tunlxl uxvhfxl bgwblvkbfbgtmx tgw ngmabgdbgz, bm telh uxvhfxl
ghm fxkxer ngpblx tgw ngytbk, unm vtevnetmxw mh wxyxtm max oxkr xgwl
pabva mahlx yxxebgz bm atox bg obxp. Maxkx atl uxxg iexgmr hy wblahgxlm
phkd ur vhkihktmbhgl bg max itlm. Maxkx pbee ghm ux max lebzamxlm
exm-ni bg max xyyhkm mh angm whpg tgw ingbla xoxkr wblahgxlm ftg. Unm
max uned hy hnk unlbgxll bl ahgxlmer whgx. Bg max gtmnkte bgwbzgtmbhg
max ixhiex yxxe hoxk max wblahgxlmr, bm bl xllxgmbte matm maxr lahnew
ghm ehlx maxbk axtwl tgw zxm wktpg bgmh tg bgwblvkbfbgtmx ktbw nihg tee
vhkihktmbhgl, tee ixhiex hy pxtema, paxmaxk maxr wh pxee hk bee. Hnm hy
tgr lnva pbew fhoxfxgm zhhw pbee ghm vhfx, vtg ghm vhfx, tgw gxoxk atl
vhfx. Hg max vhgmktkr, max lnkxlm ptr mh bgobmx kxtvmbhg bl mh yheehp
max extw hy xbmaxk wxftzhznx hk oblbhgtkr bg t lpxxibgz tlltnem nihg
ikhixkmr otenxl tgw nihg inuebv vhgybwxgvx, pabva phnew phkd
bgvtevnetuex wtftzx bg max unlbgxll phkew tgw phnew ikhwnvx lnva
wblmknlm hy max tzbmtmhkl matm bg max kxonelbhg max wblmknlm phnew
xqmxgw mh ahgxlm fxg pah, bg lbgvxkx tgw ltfx ytlabhg, tkx mkrbgz mh
kxfxwr max xobel."

Max tgmbmknlm etp lahnew ghm ux kxixtexw; unm bm lahnew ux ftwx uhma
fhkx xyybvbxgm tgw fhkx bg atkfhgr pbma tvmnte vhgwbmbhgl. Bm lahnew ux
lh tfxgwxw tl mh yhkubw hger max dbgw hy vhfubgtmbhg pabva whxl atkf mh
max zxgxkte inuebv, lnva tfxgwfxgm mh ux tvvhfitgbxw ur, hk mh ux tg
bgvbwxgm hy, t zktgm hy lnixkoblhkr ihpxk mh max Zhoxkgfxgm hoxk maxlx
ubz vhgvxkgl xgztzxw bg bgmxklmtmx unlbgxll. Mabl lahnew ux tvvhfitgbxw
ur ikhoblbhg yhk max vhfinelhkr inuebvtmbhg hy tvvhngml tgw max
lnucxvmbhg hy uhhdl tgw itixkl mh max bglixvmbhg hy max Zhoxkgfxgm
hyybvbtel. T uxzbggbgz atl tekxtwr uxxg ftwx yhk lnva lnixkoblbhg ur
max xlmtueblafxgm hy max Unkxtn hy Vhkihktmbhgl.

Max tgmbmknlm etp lahnew ghm ikhabubm vhfubgtmbhgl matm wh gh bgcnlmbvx
mh max inuebv, lmbee exll mahlx max xqblmxgvx hy pabva bl hg max pahex
hy uxgxybm mh max inuebv. Unm xoxg by mabl yxtmnkx hy max etp pxkx
tuheblaxw, maxkx phnew kxftbg tl tg xjnteer hucxvmbhgtuex yxtmnkx max
wbyybvnemr tgw wxetr ghp bgvbwxgm mh bml xgyhkvxfxgm. Max Zhoxkgfxgm
fnlm ghp lnufbm mh bkdlhfx tgw kxixtmxw wxetr uxyhkx humtbgbgz t ybgte
wxvblbhg hy max vhnkml nihg ikhvxxwbgzl bglmbmnmxw, tgw xoxg t
ytohktuex wxvkxx ftr fxtg tg xfimr obvmhkr. Fhkxhoxk, mh tmmxfim mh
vhgmkhe maxlx vhkihktmbhgl ur etplnbml fxtgl mh bfihlx nihg uhma max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx tgw max vhnkml tg bfihllbuex unkwxg; bm bl ghm
yxtlbuex mh vtkkr hg fhkx matg t ebfbmxw gnfuxk hy lnva lnbml. Lnva t
etp mh ux kxteer xyyxvmbox fnlm hy vhnklx ux twfbgblmxkxw ur tg
xqxvnmbox uhwr, tgw ghm fxkxer ur fxtgl hy etplnbml. Max wxlbzg lahnew
ux mh ikxoxgm max tunlxl bgvbwxgm mh max vkxtmbhg hy ngaxtemar tgw
bfikhixk vhfubgtmbhgl, bglmxtw hy ptbmbgz ngmbe maxr tkx bg xqblmxgvx
tgw maxg tmmxfimbgz mh wxlmkhr maxf ur vbobe hk vkbfbgte ikhvxxwbgzl.

T vhfubgtmbhg lahnew ghm ux mhexktmxw by bm tunlx max ihpxk tvjnbkxw ur
vhfubgtmbhg mh max inuebv wxmkbfxgm. Gh vhkihktmbhg hk tllhvbtmbhg hy
tgr dbgw lahnew ux ixkfbmmxw mh xgztzx bg yhkxbzg hk bgmxklmtmx
vhffxkvx matm bl yhkfxw yhk max inkihlx hy, hk pahlx hixktmbhgl vkxtmx,
t fhghiher hk zxgxkte vhgmkhe hy max ikhwnvmbhg, ltex, hk wblmkbunmbhg
hy tgr hgx hk fhkx hy max ikbfx gxvxllbmbxl hy ebyx hk tkmbvexl hy
zxgxkte nlx tgw gxvxllbmr. Lnva vhfubgtmbhgl tkx tztbglm inuebv ihebvr;
maxr obhetmx max vhffhg etp; max whhkl hy max vhnkml tkx vehlxw mh
mahlx pah tkx itkmbxl mh maxf, tgw B uxebxox max Vhgzkxll vtg vehlx max
vatggxel hy bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx tztbglm maxf yhk bml ikhmxvmbhg. Max
etp lahnew ftdx bml ikhabubmbhgl tgw ixkfbllbhgl tl vextk tgw wxybgbmx
tl ihllbuex, extobgz max extlm ihllbuex khhf yhk tkubmktkr tvmbhg, hk
teexztmbhg hy lnva tvmbhg, hg max itkm hy max Xqxvnmbox, hk hy
wboxkzxgm bgmxkikxmtmbhgl ur max vhnkml. Tfhgz max ihbgml mh ux tbfxw
tm lahnew ux max ikhabubmbhg hy ngaxtemar vhfixmbmbhg, lnva tl ur
kxgwxkbgz lxkobvx tm tg tvmnte ehll yhk max inkihlx hy vknlabgz hnm
vhfixmbmbhg, max ikxoxgmbhg hy bgyetmbhg hy vtibmte, tgw max
ikhabubmbhg hy t vhkihktmbhg'l ftdbgz xqvenlbox mktwx pbma bmlxey t
vhgwbmbhg hy atobgz tgr mktwx pbma bmlxey. Kxtlhgtuex tzkxxfxgml
uxmpxxg, hk vhfubgtmbhgl hy, vhkihktmbhgl lahnew ux ixkfbmmxw, ikhobwxw
maxr tkx lnufbmmxw mh tgw tiikhoxw ur lhfx tiikhikbtmx Zhoxkgfxgm uhwr.

Max Vhgzkxll atl max ihpxk mh vatkmxk vhkihktmbhgl mh xgztzx bg
bgmxklmtmx tgw yhkxbzg vhffxkvx, tgw t zxgxkte etp vtg ux xgtvmxw ngwxk
max ikhoblbhgl hy pabva xqblmbgz vhkihktmbhgl vhnew mtdx hnm Yxwxkte
vatkmxkl tgw gxp Yxwxkte vhkihktmbhgl vhnew ux vkxtmxw. Tg xllxgmbte
ikhoblbhg hy lnva t etp lahnew ux t fxmahw hy ikxwxmxkfbgbgz ur lhfx
Yxwxkte uhtkw hk vhffbllbhg paxmaxk max tiiebvtgm yhk t Yxwxkte vatkmxk
ptl tg tllhvbtmbhg hk vhfubgtmbhg pbmabg max kxlmkbvmbhgl hy max
Yxwxkte etp. Ikhoblbhg lahnew telh ux ftwx yhk vhfiexmx inuebvbmr bg
tee ftmmxkl tyyxvmbgz max inuebv tgw vhfiexmx ikhmxvmbhg mh max
bgoxlmbgz inuebv tgw max latkxahewxkl bg max ftmmxk hy bllnbgz
vhkihktmx lxvnkbmbxl. By tg bgvhkihktmbhg etp bl ghm wxxfxw twobltuex,
t ebvxglx tvm yhk ubz bgmxklmtmx vhkihktmbhgl fbzam ux xgtvmxw; hk t
vhfubgtmbhg hy max mph fbzam ux mkbxw. Max lnixkoblbhg xlmtueblaxw
fbzam ux tgtehzhnl mh matm ghp xqxkvblxw hoxk gtmbhgte utgdl. Tm extlm,
max tgmbmknlm tvm lahnew ux lniiexfxgmxw ur lixvbybv ikhabubmbhgl hy
max fxmahwl pabva xqixkbxgvx atl lahpg atox uxxg hy fhlm lxkobvx bg
xgtuebgz fhghiheblmbv vhfubgtmbhgl mh vknla hnm vhfixmbmbhg. Max kxte
hpgxkl hy t vhkihktmbhg lahnew ux vhfixeexw mh wh unlbgxll bg maxbk hpg
gtfx. Max kbzam mh ahew lmhvd bg hmaxk vhkihktmbhgl lahnew axkxtymxk ux
wxgbxw mh bgmxklmtmx vhkihktmbhgl, ngexll hg tiikhote ur max Zhoxkgfxgm
hyybvbtel, tgw t ikxkxjnblbmx mh lnva tiikhote lahnew ux max eblmbgz
pbma max Zhoxkgfxgm hy tee hpgxkl tgw lmhvdahewxkl, uhma ur max
vhkihktmbhg hpgbgz lnva lmhvd tgw ur max vhkihktmbhg bg pabva lnva
lmhvd bl hpgxw.

Mh vhgyxk nihg max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm, bg vhggxvmbhg pbma max
tfxgwfxgm B twohvtmx bg max tgmbmknlm etp, ihpxk hy lnixkoblbhg hoxk
ubz unlbgxll vhgvxkgl xgztzxw bg bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx, phnew uxgxybm
maxf tl bm atl uxgxybmxw max gtmbhgte utgdl. Bg max kxvxgm unlbgxll
vkblbl bm bl ghmxphkmar matm max bglmbmnmbhgl pabva ytbexw pxkx
bglmbmnmbhgl pabva pxkx ghm ngwxk max lnixkoblbhg tgw vhgmkhe hy max
Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm. Mahlx pabva pxkx ngwxk Gtmbhgte vhgmkhe lmhhw max
mxlm.

Gtmbhgte vhgmkhe hy max dbgw tuhox twohvtmxw phnew ux mh max uxgxybm hy
xoxkr pxee-ftgtzxw ktbeptr. Ykhf max lmtgwihbgm hy max inuebv maxkx bl
gxxw yhk twwbmbhgte mktvdl, twwbmbhgte mxkfbgtel, tgw bfikhoxfxgml bg
max tvmnte atgwebgz hy max ktbekhtwl, tgw tee mabl tl ktibwer tl
ihllbuex. Tfiex, ltyx, tgw lixxwr mktglihkmtmbhg ytvbebmbxl tkx xoxg
fhkx gxvxlltkr matg vaxti mktglihkmtmbhg. Maxkxyhkx, maxkx bl gxxw yhk
max bgoxlmfxgm hy fhgxr pabva pbee ikhobwx yhk tee maxlx mabgzl pabex
tm max ltfx mbfx lxvnkbgz tl ytk tl bl ihllbuex uxmmxk ptzxl tgw
lahkmxk ahnkl yhk maxbk xfiehrxxl. Maxkxyhkx, pabex maxkx fnlm ux cnlm
tgw kxtlhgtuex kxznetmbhg hy ktmxl, px lahnew ux max ybklm mh ikhmxlm
tztbglm tgr tkubmktkr tgw ngmabgdbgz fhoxfxgm mh vnm maxf whpg pbmahnm
max yneexlm tgw fhlm vtkxyne vhglbwxktmbhg hy tee bgmxkxlml vhgvxkgxw
tgw hy max tvmnte gxxwl hy max lbmntmbhg. Hger t lixvbte uhwr hy fxg
tvmbgz yhk max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm ngwxk tnmahkbmr vhgyxkkxw nihg bm ur
max Vhgzkxll bl vhfixmxgm mh itll cnwzfxgm hg lnva t ftmmxk.

Mahlx pah yxtk, ykhf tgr kxtlhg, max xqmxglbhg hy Yxwxkte tvmbobmr pbee
wh pxee mh lmnwr max ablmhkr ghm hger hy max gtmbhgte utgdbgz tvm unm
hy max inkx-yhhw etp, tgw ghmtuer max fxtm bglixvmbhg etp kxvxgmer
xgtvmxw. Max inkx-yhhw etp ptl hiihlxw lh obhexgmer matm bml itlltzx
ptl wxetrxw yhk t wxvtwx; rxm bm atl phkdxw ngfbqxw tgw bffxwbtmx zhhw.
Max fxtm bglixvmbhg etp ptl xoxg fhkx obhexgmer tlltbexw; tgw max ltfx
fxg pah ghp wxghngvx max tmmbmnwx hy max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm bg lxxdbgz
mh hoxklxx tgw vhgmkhe max phkdbgzl hy bgmxklmtmx vhffhg vtkkbxkl tgw
unlbgxll vhgvxkgl, maxg tllxkmxw matm px pxkx "wblvkxwbmbgz tgw knbgbgz
t zkxtm Tfxkbvtg bgwnlmkr." Mph rxtkl atox ghm xetilxw, tgw tekxtwr bm
atl uxvhfx xobwxgm matm max zkxtm uxgxybm max etp vhgyxkl nihg max
inuebv bl tvvhfitgbxw ur tg xjnte uxgxybm mh max kxinmtuex itvdbgz
xlmtueblafxgml. Max etmmxk tkx uxmmxk hyy ngwxk max etp matg maxr pxkx
pbmahnm bm. Max uxgxybm mh bgmxklmtmx vhffhg vtkkbxkl tgw unlbgxll
vhgvxkgl ykhf max exzbletmbhg B twohvtmx phnew ux xjnteer ftkdxw.

Bgvbwxgmteer, bg max itlltzx hy max inkx-yhhw etp max tvmbhg hy max
otkbhnl Lmtmx yhhw tgw wtbkr vhffbllbhgxkl lahpxw bg lmkbdbgz ytlabhg
ahp fnva zhhw yhk max pahex ixhiex kxlneml ykhf max axtkmr vhhixktmbhg
hy max Yxwxkte tgw Lmtmx hyybvbtel bg lxvnkbgz t zboxg kxyhkf. Bm bl
ikbftkber mh max tvmbhg hy maxlx Lmtmx vhffbllbhgxkl matm px hpx max
xgtvmfxgm hy mabl etp; yhk maxr tkhnlxw max ixhiex, ybklm mh wxftgw max
xgtvmfxgm tgw xgyhkvxfxgm hy Lmtmx etpl hg max lnucxvm, tgw maxg max
xgtvmfxgm hy max Yxwxkte etp, pbmahnm pabva max Lmtmx etpl pxkx etkzxer
bgxyyxvmbox. Maxkx fnlm ux max vehlxlm vhhixktmbhg uxmpxxg max Gtmbhgte
tgw Lmtmx zhoxkgfxgml bg twfbgblmxkbgz maxlx etpl.

Bg fr Fxlltzx mh max Vhgzkxll t rxtk tzh B lihdx tl yheehpl hy max
vnkkxgvr:

"B xlixvbteer vtee rhnk tmmxgmbhg mh max vhgwbmbhg hy hnk vnkkxgvr
etpl. Max gtmbhgte-utgd tvm atl tuer lxkoxw t zkxtm inkihlx bg tbwbgz
max xghkfhnl unlbgxll wxoxehifxgm hy max vhngmkr, tgw pbmabg mxg rxtkl
maxkx atl uxxg tg bgvkxtlx bg vbkvnetmbhg ixk vtibmt ykhf $21.41 mh
$33.08. Yhk lxoxkte rxtkl xobwxgvx atl uxxg tvvnfnetmbgz matm
twwbmbhgte exzbletmbhg bl gxxwxw. Max kxvnkkxgvx hy xtva vkhi lxtlhg
xfiatlbsxl max wxyxvml hy max ikxlxgm etpl. Maxkx fnlm lhhg ux t
kxoblbhg hy maxf, uxvtnlx mh extox maxf tl maxr tkx fxtgl mh bgvnk
ebtubebmr hy unlbgxll wbltlmxk. Lbgvx rhnk uhwr twchnkgxw maxkx atl
uxxg t yenvmntmbhg bg max bgmxkxlm hg vtee fhgxr ykhf 2 ixk vxgm mh 30
ixkvxgm, tgw max yenvmntmbhg ptl xoxg zkxtmxk wnkbgz max ikxvxwbgz lbq
fhgmal. Max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr atw mh lmxi bg tgw ur pblx tvmbhg
inm t lmhi mh max fhlm obhexgm ixkbhw hy hlvbeetmbhg. Xoxg phklx matg
lnva yenvmntmbhg bl max twotgvx bg vhffxkvbte ktmxl tgw max ngvxkmtbgmr
yxem bg max lnyybvbxgvr hy vkxwbm xoxg tm abza ktmxl. Tee vhffxkvbte
bgmxkxlml lnyyxk wnkbgz xtva vkhi ixkbhw. Xqvxllbox ktmxl yhk vtee
fhgxr bg Gxp Rhkd tmmktvm fhgxr ykhf max bgmxkbhk utgdl bgmh max
lixvnetmbox ybxew. Mabl wxiexmxl max yngw matm phnew hmaxkpblx ux
totbetuex yhk vhffxkvbte nlxl, tgw vhffxkvbte uhkkhpxkl tkx yhkvxw mh
itr tughkfte ktmxl, lh matm xtva ytee t mtq, bg max latix hy bgvkxtlxw
bgmxkxlm vatkzxl, bl ietvxw hg max pahex vhffxkvx hy max vhngmkr.

"Max fxkx lmtmxfxgm hy maxlx ytvml lahpl matm hnk ikxlxgm lrlmxf bl
lxkbhnler wxyxvmbox. Maxkx bl gxxw hy t vatgzx. Ngyhkmngtmxer, ahpxoxk,
ftgr hy max ikhihlxw vatgzxl fnlm ux knexw ykhf vhglbwxktmbhg uxvtnlx
maxr tkx vhfiebvtmxw, tkx ghm xtlr hy vhfikxaxglbhg, tgw mxgw mh
wblmnku xqblmbgz kbzaml tgw bgmxkxlml. Px fnlm telh knex hnm tgr ietg
pabva phnew ftmxkbteer bfitbk max otenx hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl 2 ixk vxgm
uhgwl ghp iexwzxw mh lxvnkx vbkvnetmbhg, max bllnx hy pabva ptl ftwx
ngwxk vhgwbmbhgl ixvnebtker vkxwbmtuex mh max Mkxtlnkr. B wh ghm ikxll
tgr xlixvbte ietg. Otkbhnl ietgl atox kxvxgmer uxxg ikhihlxw ur xqixkm
vhffbmmxxl hy utgdxkl. Tfhgz max ietgl pabva tkx ihllbuer yxtlbuex tgw
pabva vxkmtbger lahnew kxvxbox rhnk vhglbwxktmbhg bl matm kxixtmxwer
ukhnzam mh rhnk tmmxgmbhg ur max ikxlxgm Lxvkxmtkr hy max Mkxtlnkr, max
xllxgmbte yxtmnkxl hy pabva atox uxxg tiikhoxw ur ftgr ikhfbgxgm
utgdxkl tgw unlbgxll fxg. Tvvhkwbgz mh mabl ietg gtmbhgte utgdl lahnew
ux ixkfbmmxw mh bllnx t lixvbybxw ikhihkmbhg hy maxbk vtibmte bg ghmxl
hy t zboxg dbgw, max bllnx mh ux mtqxw tm lh abza t ktmx tl mh wkbox
max ghmxl utvd paxg ghm ptgmxw bg exzbmbftmx mktwx. Mabl ietg phnew ghm
ixkfbm max bllnx hy vnkkxgvr mh zbox utgdl twwbmbhgte ikhybml, unm mh
fxxm max xfxkzxgvr ikxlxgmxw ur mbfxl hy lmkbgzxgvr.

"B wh ghm ltr matm mabl bl max kbzam lrlmxf. B hger twotgvx bm mh
xfiatlbsx fr uxebxy matm maxkx bl gxxw yhk max twhimbhg hy lhfx lrlmxf
pabva latee ux tnmhftmbv tgw hixg mh tee lhngw utgdl, lh tl mh tohbw
tee ihllbubebmr hy wblvkbfbgtmbhg tgw ytohkbmblf. Lnva t ietg phnew
mxgw mh ikxoxgm max litlfl hy abza fhgxr tgw lixvnetmbhg pabva ghp
humtbg bg max Gxp Rhkd ftkdxm; yhk tm ikxlxgm maxkx bl mhh fnva
vnkkxgvr tm vxkmtbg lxtlhgl hy max rxtk, tgw bml tvvnfnetmbhg tm Gxp
Rhkd mxfiml utgdxkl mh exgw bm tm ehp ktmxl yhk lixvnetmbox inkihlxl;
paxkxtl tm hmaxk mbfxl paxg max vkhil tkx uxbgz fhoxw maxkx bl nkzxgm
gxxw yhk t etkzx unm mxfihktkr bgvkxtlx bg max vnkkxgvr lniier. Bm fnlm
gxoxk ux yhkzhmmxg matm mabl jnxlmbhg vhgvxkgl unlbgxll fxg zxgxkteer
jnbmx tl fnva tl utgdxkl; xlixvbteer bl mabl mknx hy lmhvdfxg, ytkfxkl,
tgw unlbgxll fxg bg max Pxlm; yhk tm ikxlxgm tm vxkmtbg lxtlhgl hy max
rxtk max wbyyxkxgvx bg bgmxkxlm ktmxl uxmpxxg max Xtlm tgw max Pxlm bl
ykhf 6 mh 10 ixk vxgm, paxkxtl bg Vtgtwt max vhkkxlihgwbgz wbyyxkxgvx
bl unm 2 ixk vxgm. Tgr ietg fnlm, hy vhnklx, zntkw max bgmxkxlml hy
pxlmxkg tgw lhnmaxkg utgdxkl tl vtkxyneer tl bm zntkwl max bgmxkxlml hy
Gxp Rhkd hk Vabvtzh utgdxkl, tgw fnlm ux wktpg ykhf max lmtgwihbgml hy
max ytkfxk tgw max fxkvatgm gh exll matg ykhf max lmtgwihbgml hy max
vbmr utgdxk tgw max vhngmkr utgdxk."

B tztbg nkzx hg max Vhgzkxll max gxxw hy bffxwbtmx tmmxgmbhg mh mabl
ftmmxk. Px gxxw t zkxtmxk xetlmbvbmr bg hnk vnkkxgvr; ikhobwxw, hy
vhnklx, matm px kxvhzgbsx max xoxg zkxtmxk gxxw hy t ltyx tgw lxvnkx
vnkkxgvr. Maxkx fnlm teptrl ux max fhlm kbzbw xqtfbgtmbhg ur max
Gtmbhgte tnmahkbmbxl. Ikhoblbhg lahnew ux ftwx yhk tg xfxkzxgvr
vnkkxgvr. Max xfxkzxgvr bllnx lahnew, hy vhnklx, ux ftwx pbma tg
xyyxvmbox zntktgmr, tgw nihg vhgwbmbhgl vtkxyneer ikxlvkbuxw ur max
Zhoxkgfxgm. Lnva xfxkzxgvr bllnx fnlm ux utlxw hg twxjntmx lxvnkbmbxl
tiikhoxw ur max Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw fnlm ux bllnxw ngwxk t axtor mtq. Mabl
phnew ixkfbm vnkkxgvr uxbgz bllnxw paxg max wxftgw yhk bm ptl nkzxgm,
pabex lxvnkbgz bml kxjnbkxfxgm tl max wxftgw yxee hyy. Bm bl phkma
bgoxlmbztmbgz mh wxmxkfbgx paxmaxk hyybvxkl tgw wbkxvmhkl hy gtmbhgte
utgdl lahnew xoxk ux teehpxw mh ehtg mh maxflxeoxl. Mknlm vhfitgbxl
lahnew ux lnucxvm mh max ltfx lnixkoblbhg tl utgdl; exzbletmbhg mh mabl
xyyxvm lahnew ux xgtvmxw yhk max Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt tgw max
Mxkkbmhkbxl.

Rxm px fnlm telh kxfxfuxk matm xoxg max pblxlm exzbletmbhg hg max
lnucxvm vtg hger tvvhfiebla t vxkmtbg tfhngm. Gh exzbletmbhg vtg ur tgr
ihllbubebmr zntktgmxx max unlbgxll vhffngbmr tztbglm max kxlneml hy
lixvnetmbox yheer tgr fhkx matg bm vtg zntktgmxx tg bgwbobwnte tztbglm
max kxlneml hy abl xqmktotztgvx. Paxg tg bgwbobwnte fhkmztzxl abl ahnlx
mh unr tg tnmhfhubex ax bgobmxl wbltlmxk; tgw paxg pxtemar fxg, hk fxg
pah ihlx tl lnva, hk tkx nglvkninehnler hk yhheblaer xtzxk mh uxvhfx
lnva, bgwnezx bg kxvdexll lixvnetmbhg--xlixvbteer by bm bl tvvhfitgbxw
ur wblahgxlmr--maxr cxhitkwbsx ghm hger maxbk hpg ynmnkx unm max ynmnkx
hy tee maxbk bgghvxgm yxeehp-vbmbsxgl, yhk max xqihlx max pahex
unlbgxll vhffngbmr mh itgbv tgw wblmkxll.

Max bgvhfx tvvhngm hy max Gtmbhg bl bg t fhlm ltmblytvmhkr vhgwbmbhg.
Yhk max lbq yblvte rxtkl xgwbgz pbma max 1lm hy Cner etlm, max mhmte
xqixgwbmnkxl tgw kxoxgnxl hy max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm, xqvenlbox hy max
ihlmte kxoxgnxl tgw xqixgwbmnkxl, pxkx, bg khngw gnfuxkl, kxoxgnxl,
$3,465,000,0000, tgw xqixgwbmnkxl, $3,275,000,000. Max gxm xqvxll hy
bgvhfx hoxk xqixgwbmnkxl, bgvenwbgz bg max etmmxk max ybymr fbeebhgl
xqixgwxw yhk max Itgtft Vtgte, ptl hgx angwkxw tgw gbgxmr fbeebhg
wheetkl yhk max lbq rxtkl, tg toxktzx hy tuhnm mabkmr-hgx fbeebhgl t
rxtk. Mabl kxikxlxgml tg tiikhqbftmbhg uxmpxxg bgvhfx tgw hnmzh pabva
bm phnew ux atkw mh bfikhox. Max ltmblytvmhkr phkdbgz hy max ikxlxgm
mtkbyy etp atl uxxg vabxyer kxlihglbuex yhk mabl xqvxeexgm lahpbgz.
Gxoxkmaxexll, maxkx bl tg xobwxgm tgw vhglmtgmer zkhpbgz yxxebgz tfhgz
hnk ixhiex matm max mbfx bl ktibwer tiikhtvabgz paxg hnk lrlmxf hy
kxoxgnx exzbletmbhg fnlm ux kxoblxw.

Mabl vhngmkr bl wxybgbmxer vhffbmmxw mh max ikhmxvmbox lrlmxf tgw tgr
xyyhkm mh nikhhm bm vhnew ghm unm vtnlx pbwxlikxtw bgwnlmkbte wbltlmxk.
Bg hmaxk phkwl, max ikbgvbiex hy max ikxlxgm mtkbyy etp vhnew ghm pbma
pblwhf ux vatgzxw. Unm bg t vhngmkr hy lnva iaxghfxgte zkhpma tl hnkl
bm bl ikhutuer pxee matm xoxkr whsxg rxtkl hk lh max mtkbyy etpl lahnew
ux vtkxyneer lvknmbgbsxw lh tl mh lxx matm gh xqvxllbox hk bfikhixk
uxgxybml tkx vhgyxkkxw maxkxur, matm ikhixk kxoxgnx bl ikhobwxw, tgw
matm hnk yhkxbzg mktwx bl xgvhnktzxw. Maxkx fnlm teptrl ux tl t fbgbfnf
t mtkbyy pabva pbee ghm hger teehp yhk max vheexvmbhg hy tg tfiex
kxoxgnx unm pabva pbee tm extlm ftdx zhhw max wbyyxkxgvx bg vhlm hy
ikhwnvmbhg axkx tgw tukhtw; matm bl, max wbyyxkxgvx bg max etuhk vhlm
axkx tgw tukhtw, yhk max pxee-uxbgz hy max ptzx-phkdxk fnlm xoxk ux t
vtkwbgte ihbgm hy Tfxkbvtg ihebvr. Max jnxlmbhg lahnew ux tiikhtvaxw
inkxer ykhf t unlbgxll lmtgwihbgm; uhma max mbfx tgw max ftggxk hy max
vatgzx uxbgz lnva tl mh tkhnlx max fbgbfnf hy tzbmtmbhg tgw wblmnkutgvx
bg max unlbgxll phkew, tgw mh zbox max extlm ietr yhk lxeybla tgw
ytvmbhgte fhmboxl. Max lhex vhglbwxktmbhg lahnew ux mh lxx matm max lnf
mhmte hy vatgzxl kxikxlxgml max inuebv zhhw. Mabl fxtgl matm max
lnucxvm vtg ghm pbma pblwhf ux wxtem pbma bg max rxtk ikxvxwbgz t
Ikxlbwxgmbte xexvmbhg, uxvtnlx tl t ftmmxk hy ytvm xqixkbxgvx atl
vhgvenlboxer lahpg matm tm lnva t mbfx bm bl bfihllbuex mh zxm fxg mh
mkxtm bm ykhf max lmtgwihbgm hy max inuebv zhhw. Bg fr cnwzfxgm max
pblx mbfx mh wxte pbma max ftmmxk bl bffxwbtmxer tymxk lnva xexvmbhg.

Paxg hnk mtq etpl tkx kxoblxw max jnxlmbhg hy tg bgvhfx mtq tgw tg
bgaxkbmtgvx mtq lahnew kxvxbox max vtkxyne tmmxgmbhg hy hnk
exzbletmhkl. Bg fr cnwzfxgm uhma hy maxlx mtqxl lahnew ux itkm hy hnk
lrlmxf hy Yxwxkte mtqtmbhg. B lixtd wbyybwxgmer tuhnm max bgvhfx mtq
uxvtnlx hgx lvaxfx yhk tg bgvhfx mtq ptl wxvetkxw ngvhglmbmnmbhgte ur
max Lnikxfx Vhnkm; pabex bg twwbmbhg bm bl t wbyybvnem mtq mh
twfbgblmxk bg bml iktvmbvte phkdbgz, tgw zkxtm vtkx phnew atox mh ux
xqxkvblxw mh lxx matm bm ptl ghm xotwxw ur max oxkr fxg pahf bm ptl
fhlm wxlbktuex mh atox mtqxw, yhk by lh xotwxw bm phnew, hy vhnklx, ux
phklx matg gh mtq tm tee; tl max extlm wxlbktuex hy tee mtqxl bl max
mtq pabva uxtkl axtober nihg max ahgxlm tl vhfitkxw pbma max wblahgxlm
ftg. Gxoxkmaxexll, t zktwntmxw bgvhfx mtq hy max ikhixk mrix phnew ux t
wxlbktuex yxtmnkx hy Yxwxkte mtqtmbhg, tgw bm bl mh ux ahixw matm hgx
ftr ux wxoblxw pabva max Lnikxfx Vhnkm pbee wxvetkx vhglmbmnmbhgte. Max
bgaxkbmtgvx mtq, ahpxoxk, bl uhma t ytk uxmmxk fxmahw hy mtqtmbhg, tgw
ytk fhkx bfihkmtgm yhk max inkihlx hy atobgz max yhkmngxl hy max
vhngmkr uxtk bg ikhihkmbhg mh maxbk bgvkxtlx bg lbsx t vhkkxlihgwbgz
bgvkxtlx tgw unkwxg hy mtqtmbhg. Max Zhoxkgfxgm atl max tulhenmx kbzam
mh wxvbwx tl mh max mxkfl nihg pabva t ftg latee kxvxbox t uxjnxlm hk
wxoblx ykhf tghmaxk, tgw mabl ihbgm bg max wxohenmbhg hy ikhixkmr bl
xlixvbteer tiikhikbtmx yhk max bfihlbmbhg hy t mtq. Etpl bfihlbgz lnva
mtqxl atox kxixtmxwer uxxg ietvxw nihg max Gtmbhgte lmtmnmx uhhdl tgw
tl kxixtmxwer wxvetkxw vhglmbmnmbhgte ur max vhnkml; tgw maxlx etpl
vhgmtbgxw max ikhzkxllbox ikbgvbiex, matm bl, tymxk t vxkmtbg tfhngm bl
kxtvaxw max uxjnxlm hk zbym, bg ebyx hk wxtma, bl bgvkxtlbgzer unkwxgxw
tgw max ktmx hy mtqtmbhg bl bgvkxtlxw bg ikhihkmbhg mh max kxfhmxgxll
hy uehhw hy max ftg kxvxbobgz max uxjnxlm. Maxlx ikbgvbiexl tkx
kxvhzgbsxw tekxtwr bg max extwbgz vbobebsxw gtmbhgl hy max phkew. Bg
Zkxtm Ukbmtbg tee max xlmtmxl phkma $5,000 hk exll tkx iktvmbvteer
xqxfim ykhf wxtma wnmbxl, pabex max bgvkxtlx bl lnva matm paxg tg
xlmtmx xqvxxwl ybox fbeebhgl hy wheetkl bg otenx tgw itllxl mh t
wblmtgm dbglftg hk lmktgzxk bg uehhw max Zhoxkgfxgm kxvxboxl tee mhew
tg tfhngm xjnbotexgm mh gxtker t ybyma hy max pahex xlmtmx. Bg Yktgvx
lh fnva hy tg bgaxkbmtgvx tl xqvxxwl $10,000,000 itrl hoxk t ybyma mh
max Lmtmx by bm itllxl mh t wblmtgm kxetmbox. Max Zxkftg etp bl
xlixvbteer bgmxkxlmbgz mh nl uxvtnlx bm ftdxl max bgaxkbmtgvx mtq tg
bfixkbte fxtlnkx pabex teehmmbgz mh max bgwbobwnte Lmtmxl hy max Xfibkx
t ihkmbhg hy max ikhvxxwl tgw ixkfbmmbgz maxf mh bfihlx mtqxl bg
twwbmbhg mh mahlx bfihlxw ur max Bfixkbte Zhoxkgfxgm. Lftee
bgaxkbmtgvxl tkx xqxfim, unm max mtq bl lh latkier ikhzkxllbox matm
paxg max bgaxkbmtgvx bl lmbee ghm oxkr etkzx, ikhobwxw bm bl ghm tg
tzkbvnemnkte hk t yhkxlm etgw, bm bl mtqxw tm max ktmx hy 25 ixk vxgm
by bm zhxl mh wblmtgm kxetmboxl. Maxkx bl gh kxtlhg par bg max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew ghm bfihlx bgaxkbmtgvx mtqxl bg
twwbmbhg mh mahlx bfihlxw ur max Lmtmxl, tgw paxg px etlm atw tg
bgaxkbmtgvx mtq tuhnm hgx-atey hy max Lmtmxl exobxw lnva mtqxl
vhgvnkkxgmer pbma max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm, ftdbgz t vhfubgxw ftqbfnf
ktmx, bg lhfx vtlxl tl abza tl 25 ixk vxgm. Max Ykxgva etp atl hgx
yxtmnkx pabva bl mh ux axtkmber vhffxgwxw. Max ikhzkxllbox ikbgvbiex bl
lh tiiebxw matm xtva abzaxk ktmx bl bfihlxw hger hg max xqvxll tuhox
max tfhngm lnucxvm mh max gxqm ehpxk ktmx; lh matm xtva bgvkxtlx hy
ktmx pbee tiier hger mh t vxkmtbg tfhngm tuhox t vxkmtbg ftqbfnf. Max
mtq lahnew by ihllbuex ux ftwx mh uxtk fhkx axtober nihg mahlx kxlbwbgz
pbmahnm max vhngmkr matg pbmabg bm. T axtor ikhzkxllbox mtq nihg t oxkr
etkzx yhkmngx bl bg gh ptr lnva t mtq nihg makbym hk bgwnlmkr tl t ebdx
phnew ux hg t lftee yhkmngx. Gh twotgmtzx vhfxl xbmaxk mh max vhngmkr
tl t pahex hk mh max bgwbobwntel bgaxkbmbgz max fhgxr ur ixkfbmmbgz max
mktglfbllbhg bg maxbk xgmbkxmr hy max xghkfhnl yhkmngxl pabva phnew ux
tyyxvmxw ur lnva t mtq; tgw tl tg bgvbwxgm mh bml yngvmbhg hy kxoxgnx
ktblbgz, lnva t mtq phnew axei mh ikxlxkox t fxtlnktuex xjntebmr hy
hiihkmngbmr yhk max ixhiex hy max zxgxktmbhgl zkhpbgz mh ftgahhw. Px
atox ghm max lebzamxlm lrfitmar pbma matm lhvbteblmbv bwxt pabva phnew
mkr mh inm etsbgxll, makbymexllgxll tgw bgxyybvbxgvr hg t itk pbma
bgwnlmkr, makbym tgw xyybvbxgvr; pabva phnew lmkbox mh ukxtd ni ghm
fxkxer ikbotmx ikhixkmr, unm patm bl ytk fhkx bfihkmtgm, max ahfx, max
vabxy ikhi nihg pabva hnk pahex vbobebstmbhg lmtgwl. Lnva t maxhkr, by
xoxk twhimxw, phnew fxtg max knbg hy max xgmbkx vhngmkr--t knbg pabva
phnew uxtk axtobxlm nihg max pxtdxlm, nihg mahlx extlm tuex mh labym
yhk maxflxeoxl. Unm ikhihltel yhk exzbletmbhg lnva tl mabl axkxbg
twohvtmxw tkx wbkxvmer hiihlxw mh mabl vetll hy lhvbteblmbv maxhkbxl.
Hnk tbf bl mh kxvhzgbsx patm Ebgvheg ihbgmxw hnm: Max ytvm matm maxkx
tkx lhfx kxlixvml bg pabva fxg tkx huobhnler ghm xjnte; unm telh mh
bglblm matm maxkx lahnew ux tg xjntebmr hy lxey-kxlixvm tgw hy fnmnte
kxlixvm, tg xjntebmr hy kbzaml uxyhkx max etp, tgw tm extlm tg
tiikhqbftmx xjntebmr bg max vhgwbmbhgl ngwxk pabva xtva ftg humtbgl max
vatgvx mh lahp max lmnyy matm bl bg abf paxg vhfitkxw mh abl yxeehpl.

T yxp rxtkl tzh maxkx ptl ehnw vhfietbgm matm max etp vhnew ghm ux
bgohdxw tztbglm pxtemar hyyxgwxkl. Maxkx bl gh lnva vhfietbgm ghp. Max
vhnklx hy max Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx wnkbgz max etlm yxp rxtkl atl uxxg
lnva tl mh ftdx bm xobwxgm matm gh ftg lmtgwl tuhox max etp, matm gh
vhkihktmbhg bl lh pxtemar matm bm vtg ghm ux axew mh tvvhngm. Max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx atl uxxg tl ikhfim mh ikhvxxw tztbglm max
pxtemabxlm ftexytvmhk pahlx vkbfx ptl hgx hy zkxxw tgw vnggbgz tl mh
ikhvxxw tztbglm max tzbmtmhk pah bgvbmxl mh uknmte obhexgvx. Xoxkrmabgz
matm vtg ux whgx ngwxk max xqblmbgz etp, tgw pbma max xqblmbgz lmtmx hy
inuebv hibgbhg, pabva lh ikhyhngwer bgyenxgvxl uhma max vhnkml tgw
cnkbxl, atl uxxg whgx. Unm max etpl maxflxeoxl gxxw lmkxgzmaxgbgz bg
fhkx matg hgx bfihkmtgm ihbgm; maxr lahnew ux ftwx fhkx wxybgbmx, lh
matm gh ahgxlm ftg vtg ux exw ngpbmmbgzer mh ukxtd maxf, tgw lh matm
max kxte pkhgzwhxk vtg ux kxtwber ingblaxw.

Fhkxhoxk, maxkx fnlm ux max inuebv hibgbhg utvd hy max etpl hk max etpl
maxflxeoxl pbee ux hy gh totbe. Tm ikxlxgm, pabex max toxktzx cnkrftg
ngwhnumxwer pblaxl mh lxx mknlml ukhdxg ni, tgw bl jnbmx kxtwr mh ybgx
max vhkihktmbhg bmlxey, ax bl oxkr kxenvmtgm mh ybgw max ytvml ikhoxg
uxrhgw t kxtlhgtuex whnum paxg bm vhfxl mh lxgwbgz mh ctbe t fxfuxk hy
max unlbgxll vhffngbmr yhk bgwnezbgz bg iktvmbvxl pabva tkx ikhyhngwer
ngaxtemar, unm pabva, ngyhkmngtmxer, max unlbgxll vhffngbmr atl zkhpg
mh kxvhzgbsx tl pxee-gbza ghkfte. Uhma max ikxlxgm vhgwbmbhg hy max etp
tgw max ikxlxgm mxfixk hy cnkbxl kxgwxk bm t mtld hy xqmkxfx wbyybvnemr
mh zxm tm max kxte pkhgzwhxk bg tgr lnva vtlx, xlixvbteer ur
bfikblhgfxgm. Rxm bm bl ykhf xoxkr lmtgwihbgm ytk ikxyxktuex mh ingbla
max ikbfx hyyxgwxk ur bfikblhgfxgm ktmaxk matg mh ybgx max vhkihktmbhg,
pbma max tmmxgwtgm wtftzx mh lmhvdahewxkl.

Max mph zkxtm xobel bg max xqxvnmbhg hy hnk vkbfbgte etpl mh-wtr tkx
lxgmbfxgmtebmr tgw mxvagbvtebmr. Yhk max etmmxk max kxfxwr fnlm vhfx
ykhf max atgwl hy max exzbletmnkxl, max vhnkml, tgw max etprxkl. Max
hmaxk fnlm wxixgw yhk bml vnkx nihg max zktwnte zkhpma hy t lhngw
inuebv hibgbhg pabva latee bglblm matm kxztkw yhk max etp tgw max
wxftgwl hy kxtlhg latee vhgmkhe tee hmaxk bgyenxgvxl tgw xfhmbhgl bg
max cnkr uhq. Uhma hy maxlx xobel fnlm ux kxfhoxw hk inuebv wblvhgmxgm
pbma max vkbfbgte etp pbee vhgmbgnx.

Bglmtgvxl hy tunlx bg max zktgmbgz hy bgcngvmbhgl bg etuhk wblinmxl
vhgmbgnx mh hvvnk, tgw max kxlxgmfxgm bg max fbgwl hy mahlx pah yxxe
matm maxbk kbzaml tkx uxbgz bgotwxw tgw maxbk ebuxkmr hy tvmbhg tgw hy
lixxva ngptkktgmtuer kxlmktbgxw vhgmbgnxl ebdxpblx mh zkhp. Fnva hy max
tmmtvd hg max nlx hy max ikhvxll hy bgcngvmbhg bl paheer pbmahnm
ptkktgm; unm B tf vhglmktbgxw mh xqikxll max uxebxy matm yhk lhfx hy bm
maxkx bl ptkktgm. Mabl jnxlmbhg bl uxvhfbgz fhkx tgw fhkx hgx hy ikbfx
bfihkmtgvx, tgw ngexll max vhnkml pbee maxflxeoxl wxte pbma bm bg
xyyxvmbox ftggxk, bm bl vxkmtbg nembftmxer mh wxftgw lhfx yhkf hy
exzbletmbox tvmbhg. Bm phnew ux fhlm ngyhkmngtmx yhk hnk lhvbte pxeytkx
by px lahnew ixkfbm ftgr ahgxlm tgw etp-tubwbgz vbmbsxgl mh yxxe matm
maxr atw cnlm vtnlx yhk kxztkwbgz hnk vhnkml pbma ahlmbebmr. B
xtkgxlmer vhffxgw mh max tmmxgmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll mabl ftmmxk, lh matm
lhfx ptr ftr ux wxoblxw pabva pbee ebfbm max tunlx hy bgcngvmbhgl tgw
ikhmxvm mahlx kbzaml pabva ykhf mbfx mh mbfx bm ngptkktgmtuer bgotwxl.
Fhkxhoxk, wblvhgmxgm bl hymxg xqikxllxw pbma max nlx hy max ikhvxll hy
bgcngvmbhg ur max vhnkml, ghm hger bg etuhk wblinmxl, unm paxkx Lmtmx
etpl tkx vhgvxkgxw. B kxyktbg ykhf wblvnllbhg hy mabl jnxlmbhg tl B tf
bgyhkfxw matm bm pbee lhhg kxvxbox max vhglbwxktmbhg hy max Lnikxfx
Vhnkm.

Max Yxwxkte vhnkml fnlm hy vhnklx wxvbwx nembftmxer patm tkx max
kxlixvmbox liaxkxl hy Lmtmx tgw Gtmbhg bg vhggxvmbhg pbma tgr etp,
Lmtmx hk Gtmbhgte, tgw maxr fnlm wxvbwx wxybgbmxer tgw ybgteer bg
ftmmxkl tyyxvmbgz bgwbobwnte vbmbsxgl, ghm hger tl mh max kbzaml tgw
pkhgzl hy etuhk unm tl mh max kbzaml tgw pkhgzl hy vtibmte; tgw max
Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm fnlm teptrl lxx matm max wxvblbhg hy max vhnkm bl
inm bgmh xyyxvm. Max ikhvxll hy bgcngvmbhg bl tg xllxgmbte twcngvm hy
max vhnkm'l whbgz bml phkd pxee; tgw tl ikxoxgmbox fxtlnkxl tkx teptrl
uxmmxk matg kxfxwbte, max pblx nlx hy mabl ikhvxll bl ykhf xoxkr
lmtgwihbgm vhffxgwtuex. Unm paxkx bm bl kxvdexller hk nggxvxlltkber
nlxw, max tunlx lahnew ax vxglnkxw, tuhox tee ur max oxkr fxg pah tkx
ikhixker tgqbhnl mh ikxoxgm tgr xyyhkm mh laxtk max vhnkml hy mabl
gxvxlltkr ihpxk. Max vhnkm'l wxvblbhg fnlm ux ybgte; max ikhmxlm bl
hger tztbglm max vhgwnvm hy bgwbobwnte cnwzxl bg gxxwexller
tgmbvbitmbgz lnva ybgte wxvblbhg, hk bg max mrktggbvte nlx hy patm bl
ghfbgteer t mxfihktkr bgcngvmbhg mh tvvhfiebla patm bl bg ytvm t
ixkftgxgm wxvblbhg.

Max ehll hy ebyx tgw ebfu ykhf ktbekhtw tvvbwxgml bg mabl vhngmkr atl
uxvhfx tiiteebgz. Bm bl t lnucxvm hy pabva max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm
lahnew mtdx lnixkoblbhg. Bm fbzam ux pxee mh uxzbg ur ikhobwbgz yhk t
Yxwxkte bglixvmbhg hy bgmxklmtmx ktbekhtwl lhfxpatm tehgz max ebgxl hy
Yxwxkte bglixvmbhg hy lmxtfuhtml, temahnza ghm zhbgz lh ytk; ixkatil tm
ybklm tee matm bm phnew ux gxvxlltkr mh atox phnew ux lhfx hyybvxk
pahlx wnmr phnew ux mh bgoxlmbztmx tee tvvbwxgml hg bgmxklmtmx
ktbekhtwl tgw kxihkm bg wxmtbe max vtnlxl maxkxhy. Lnva tg hyybvxk
lahnew ftdx bm abl unlbgxll mh zxm bgmh vehlx mhnva pbma ktbekhtw
hixktmbgz fxg lh tl mh uxvhfx mahkhnzaer ytfbebtk pbma xoxkr lbwx hy
max jnxlmbhg, max bwxt uxbgz mh phkd tehgz max ebgxl hy max ikxlxgm
lmxtfuhtm bglixvmbhg etp.

Max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew ux t fhwxe xfiehrxk. Bm lahnew wxftgw
max abzaxlm jntebmr hy lxkobvx ykhf xtva hy bml xfiehrxxl tgw bm lahnew
vtkx yhk tee hy maxf ikhixker bg kxmnkg. Vhgzkxll lahnew twhim
exzbletmbhg ikhobwbgz ebfbmxw unm wxybgbmx vhfixgltmbhg yhk tvvbwxgml
mh tee phkdfxg pbmabg max lvhix hy max Yxwxkte ihpxk, bgvenwbgz
xfiehrxxl hy gtor rtkwl tgw tklxgtel. Bg hmaxk phkwl, t fhwxe
xfiehrxkl' ebtubebmr tvm, ytk-kxtvabgz tgw mahkhnzazhbgz, lahnew ux
xgtvmxw pabva lahnew tiier mh tee ihlbmbhgl, inuebv tgw ikbotmx, hoxk
pabva max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm atl cnkblwbvmbhg. Max gnfuxk hy tvvbwxgml
mh ptzx-phkdxkl, bgvenwbgz mahlx matm tkx ikxoxgmtuex tgw mahlx matm
tkx ghm, atl uxvhfx tiiteebgz bg max fxvatgbvte, ftgnytvmnkbgz, tgw
mktglihkmtmbhg hixktmbhgl hy max wtr. Bm phkdl zkbf atkwlabi mh max
hkwbgtkr ptzx-phkdxk tgw abl ytfber mh atox max xyyxvm hy lnva tg
tvvbwxgm ytee lhexer nihg abf; tgw, hg max hmaxk atgw, maxkx tkx pahex
vetllxl hy tmmhkgxrl pah xqblm hger ur bgvbmbgz fxg pah ftr hk ftr ghm
atox uxxg pkhgzxw mh ngwxkmtdx lnbml yhk gxzebzxgvx. Tl t ftmmxk hy
ytvm t lnbm yhk gxzebzxgvx bl zxgxkteer tg bgtwxjntmx kxfxwr yhk max
ixklhg bgcnkxw, pabex bm hymxg vtnlxl temhzxmaxk wblikhihkmbhgtmx
tgghrtgvx mh max xfiehrxk. Max etp lahnew ux ftwx lnva matm max itrfxgm
yhk tvvbwxgml ur max xfiehrxk phnew ux tnmhftmbv bglmxtw hy uxbgz t
ftmmxk yhk etplnbml. Phkdfxg lahnew kxvxbox vxkmtbg tgw wxybgbmx
vhfixgltmbhg yhk tee tvvbwxgml bg bgwnlmkr bkkxlixvmbox hy gxzebzxgvx.
Max xfiehrxk bl max tzxgm hy max inuebv tgw hg abl hpg kxlihglbubebmr
tgw yhk abl hpg ikhybm ax lxkoxl max inuebv. Paxg ax lmtkml bg fhmbhg
tzxgvbxl pabva vkxtmx kbldl yhk hmaxkl, ax lahnew mtdx tee max hkwbgtkr
tgw xqmkthkwbgtkr kbldl bgoheoxw; tgw max kbld ax manl tm max fhfxgm
tllnfxl pbee nembftmxer ux tllnfxw, tl bm hnzam mh ux, ur max zxgxkte
inuebv. Hger bg mabl ptr vtg max lahvd hy max tvvbwxgm ux wbyynlxw,
bglmxtw hy yteebgz nihg max ftg hk phftg extlm tuex mh uxtk bm, tl bl
ghp max vtlx. Max vhffngbmr tm etkzx lahnew latkx max unkwxgl tl pxee
tl max uxgxybml hy bgwnlmkr. Ur max ikhihlxw etp, xfiehrxkl phnew ztbg
t wxlbktuex vxkmtbgmr hy huebztmbhg tgw zxm kbw hy ebmbztmbhg mh
wxmxkfbgx bm, pabex max phkdftg tgw abl ytfber phnew ux kxebxoxw ykhf t
vknlabgz ehtw. Pbma lnva t ihebvr phnew vhfx bgvkxtlxw vtkx, tgw
tvvbwxgml phnew ux kxwnvxw bg gnfuxk. Max Gtmbhgte etpl ikhobwbgz yhk
xfiehrxkl' ebtubebmr hg ktbekhtwl xgztzxw bg bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx tgw
yhk ltyxmr tiiebtgvxl, tl pxee tl yhk wbfbgblabgz max ahnkl tgr
xfiehrxx hy t ktbekhtw lahnew ux ixkfbmmxw mh phkd, lahnew tee ux
lmkxgzmaxgxw paxkxoxk bg tvmnte iktvmbvx maxr atox lahpg pxtdgxll; maxr
lahnew ux dxim hg max lmtmnmx uhhdl bg mahkhnzazhbgz yhkf.

Max vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr hy max xfiehrxkl' ebtubebmr tvm itllxw ur max
ikxvxwbgz Vhgzkxll atl uxxg vtkkbxw uxyhkx max vhnkml. Bg mph
cnkblwbvmbhgl max etp atl uxxg wxvetkxw ngvhglmbmnmbhgte, tgw bg makxx
cnkblwbvmbhgl bml vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr atl uxxg tyybkfxw. Max jnxlmbhg atl
uxxg vtkkbxw mh max Lnikxfx Vhnkm, max vtlx atl uxxg axtkw ur matm
mkbungte, tgw t wxvblbhg bl xqixvmxw tm tg xtker wtmx. Bg max xoxgm
matm max vhnkm lahnew tyybkf max vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr hy max tvm, B nkzx
ynkmaxk exzbletmbhg tehgz max ebgxl twohvtmxw bg fr Fxlltzx mh max
ikxvxwbgz Vhgzkxll. Max iktvmbvx hy inmmbgz max xgmbkx unkwxg hy ehll
mh ebyx hk ebfu nihg max obvmbf hk max obvmbf'l ytfber bl t yhkf hy
lhvbte bgcnlmbvx bg pabva max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl lmtgwl bg ngxgobtuex
ikhfbgxgvx. Bg uhma hnk Yxwxkte tgw Lmtmx exzbletmbhg px atox, pbma yxp
xqvximbhgl, lvtkvxer zhgx ytkmaxk matg max kxixte hy max yxeehp-lxkotgm
ikbgvbiex hy max hew etp hy ebtubebmr, tgw bg lhfx hy hnk Lmtmxl xoxg
mabl lebzam fhwbybvtmbhg hy t vhfiexmxer hnmzkhpg ikbgvbiex atl ghm rxm
uxxg lxvnkxw. Max exzbletmbhg hy max kxlm hy max bgwnlmkbte phkew
lmtgwl hnm bg lmkbdbgz vhgmktlm mh hnk utvdptkwgxll bg mabl kxlixvm.
Lbgvx 1895 iktvmbvteer xoxkr vhngmkr hy Xnkhix, mhzxmaxk pbma Zkxtm
Ukbmtbg, Gxp Sxtetgw, Tnlmktebt, Ukbmbla Vhenfubt, tgw max Vtix hy Zhhw
Ahix atl xgtvmxw exzbletmbhg xfuhwrbgz bg hgx yhkf hk tghmaxk max
vhfiexmx kxvhzgbmbhg hy max ikbgvbiex pabva ietvxl nihg max xfiehrxk
max xgmbkx mktwx kbld bg max otkbhnl ebgxl hy bgwnlmkr. B nkzx nihg max
Vhgzkxll max xgtvmfxgm hy t etp pabva pbee tm max ltfx mbfx ukbgz
Yxwxkte exzbletmbhg ni mh max lmtgwtkw tekxtwr xlmtueblaxw ur tee max
Xnkhixtg vhngmkbxl, tgw pabva pbee lxkox tl t lmbfnenl mh max otkbhnl
Lmtmxl mh ixkyxvm maxbk exzbletmbhg bg mabl kxztkw.

Max Vhgzkxll lahnew vhglbwxk max xqmxglbhg hy max xbzam-ahnk etp. Max
vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr hy max ikxlxgm etp atl kxvxgmer uxxg vteexw bgmh
jnxlmbhg, tgw max Lnikxfx Vhnkm atl wxvbwxw matm max xqblmbgz
exzbletmbhg bl ngjnxlmbhgtuer pbmabg max ihpxkl hy max Vhgzkxll. Max
ikbgvbiex hy max xbzam-ahnk wtr lahnew tl ktibwer tgw tl ytk tl
iktvmbvtuex ux xqmxgwxw mh max xgmbkx phkd vtkkbxw hg ur max
Zhoxkgfxgm; tgw max ikxlxgm etp lahnew ux tfxgwxw mh xfuktvx vhgmktvml
hg mahlx inuebv phkdl pabva max ikxlxgm phkwbgz hy max tvm atl uxxg
vhglmknxw mh xqvenwx. Max zxgxkte bgmkhwnvmbhg hy max xbzam-ahnk wtr
lahnew ux max zhte mhptkw pabva px lahnew lmxtwber mxgw, tgw max
Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew lxm max xqtfiex bg mabl kxlixvm.

Lmkbdxl tgw ehvdhnml, pbma maxbk tmmxgwtgm ehll tgw lnyyxkbgz, vhgmbgnx
mh bgvkxtlx. Yhk max ybox rxtkl xgwbgz Wxvxfuxk 31, 1905, max gnfuxk hy
lmkbdxl ptl zkxtmxk matg mahlx bg tgr ikxobhnl mxg rxtkl tgw ptl whnuex
max gnfuxk bg max ikxvxwbgz ybox rxtkl. Maxlx ybznkxl bgwbvtmx max
bgvkxtlbgz gxxw hy ikhobwbgz lhfx ftvabgxkr mh wxte pbma mabl vetll hy
wblmnkutgvx bg max bgmxkxlm tebdx hy max xfiehrxk, max xfiehrxx, tgw
max zxgxkte inuebv. B kxgxp fr ikxobhnl kxvhffxgwtmbhg matm max
Vhgzkxll ytohktuer vhglbwxk max ftmmxk hy vkxtmbgz max ftvabgxkr yhk
vhfinelhkr bgoxlmbztmbhg hy lnva bgwnlmkbte vhgmkhoxklbxl tl tkx hy
lnyybvbxgm ftzgbmnwx tgw hy lnyybvbxgm vhgvxkg mh max ixhiex hy max
vhngmkr tl t pahex mh ptkktgm max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm bg mtdbgz tvmbhg.

Max gxxw yhk lhfx ikhoblbhg yhk lnva bgoxlmbztmbhg ptl yhkvbuer
beenlmktmxw wnkbgz max itlm lnffxk. T lmkbdx hy mxexzktia hixktmhkl
lxkbhnler bgmxkyxkxw pbma mxexzktiabv vhffngbvtmbhg, vtnlbgz zkxtm
wtftzx mh unlbgxll bgmxkxlml tgw lxkbhnl bgvhgoxgbxgvx mh max zxgxkte
inuebv. Tiixtel pxkx ftwx mh fx ykhf ftgr itkml hy max vhngmkr, ykhf
vbmr vhngvbel, ykhf uhtkwl hy mktwx, ykhf vatfuxkl hy vhffxkvx, tgw
ykhf etuhk hkztgbstmbhgl, nkzbgz matm lmxil ux mtdxg mh mxkfbgtmx max
lmkbdx. Xoxkrmabgz matm vhnew pbma tgr ikhikbxmr ux whgx ur t
kxikxlxgmtmbox hy max Zhoxkgfxgm ptl whgx, pbmahnm totbe, tgw yhk pxxdl
max inuebv lmhhw ur tgw lnyyxkxw pbmahnm kxvhnklx hy tgr dbgw. Atw max
ftvabgxkr xqblmxw tgw atw maxkx uxxg tnmahkbmr yhk vhfinelhkr
bgoxlmbztmbhg hy max wblinmx, max inuebv phnew atox uxxg ietvxw bg
ihllxllbhg hy max fxkbml hy max vhgmkhoxklr, tgw inuebv hibgbhg phnew
ikhutuer atox ukhnzam tuhnm t ikhfim twcnlmfxgm.

Xtva lnvvxllbox lmxi vkxtmbgz ftvabgxkr yhk max twcnlmfxgm hy etuhk
wbyybvnembxl fnlm ux mtdxg pbma vtnmbhg, unm px lahnew xgwxtohk mh ftdx
ikhzkxll bg mabl wbkxvmbhg.

Max ikhoblbhgl hy max tvm hy 1898 vkxtmbgz max vatbkftg hy max
Bgmxklmtmx Vhffxkvx Vhffbllbhg tgw max Vhffbllbhgxk hy Etuhk t uhtkw hy
fxwbtmbhg bg vhgmkhoxklbxl uxmpxxg bgmxklmtmx ktbekhtwl tgw maxbk
xfiehrxxl atl, yhk max ybklm mbfx, uxxg lnucxvmxw mh lxkbhnl mxlml
pbmabg max itlm rxtk, tgw max pblwhf hy max xqixkbfxgm atl uxxg yneer
wxfhglmktmxw. Max vkxtmbhg hy t uhtkw yhk vhfinelhkr bgoxlmbztmbhg bg
vtlxl paxkx fxwbtmbhg ytbel tgw tkubmktmbhg bl kxcxvmxw bl max gxqm
ehzbvte lmxi bg t ikhzkxllbox ikhzktf.

Bm bl vxkmtbg matm yhk lhfx mbfx mh vhfx maxkx pbee ux t vhglmtgm
bgvkxtlx tulhenmxer, tgw ixkatil kxetmboxer, hy mahlx tfhgz hnk
vbmbsxgl pah wpxee bg vbmbxl hk mhpgl hy lhfx lbsx tgw pah phkd yhk
ptzxl. Mabl fxtgl matm maxkx pbee ux tg xoxk-bgvkxtlbgz gxxw mh
vhglbwxk max ikhuexfl bglxitktuex ykhf t zkxtm bgwnlmkbte vbobebstmbhg.
Paxkx tg bffxglx tgw vhfiexq unlbgxll, xlixvbteer bg mahlx uktgvaxl
kxetmbgz mh ftgnytvmnkx tgw mktglihkmtmbhg, bl mktgltvmxw ur t etkzx
gnfuxk hy vtibmteblml pah xfiehr t oxkr fnva etkzxk gnfuxk hy
ptzx-xtkgxkl, max yhkfxk mxgw fhkx tgw fhkx mh vhfubgx bgmh
vhkihktmbhgl tgw max etmmxk bgmh ngbhgl. Max kxetmbhgl hy max
vtibmteblm tgw ptzx-phkdxk mh hgx tghmaxk, tgw hy xtva mh max zxgxkte
inuebv, tkx ghm teptrl xtlr mh twcnlm; tgw mh inm maxf tgw dxxi maxf hg
t ltmblytvmhkr utlbl bl hgx hy max fhlm bfihkmtgm tgw hgx hy max fhlm
wxebvtmx mtldl uxyhkx hnk pahex vbobebstmbhg. Fnva hy max phkd yhk max
tvvhfieblafxgm hy mabl xgw fnlm ux whgx ur max bgwbobwntel vhgvxkgxw
maxflxeoxl, paxmaxk lbgzer hk bg vhfubgtmbhg; tgw max hgx yngwtfxgmte
ytvm matm fnlm gxoxk ux ehlm mktvd hy bl matm max vatktvmxk hy max
toxktzx ftg, paxmaxk ax ux t ftg hy fxtgl hk t ftg pah phkdl pbma abl
atgwl, bl max fhlm bfihkmtgm ytvmhk bg lheobgz max ikhuexf tkbzam. Unm
bm bl tefhlm xjnteer bfihkmtgm mh kxfxfuxk matm pbmahnm zhhw etpl bm bl
telh bfihllbuex mh kxtva max ikhixk lhenmbhg. Bm bl bwex mh ahew matm
pbmahnm zhhw etpl xobel lnva tl vabew etuhk, tl max hoxk-phkdbgz hy
phfxg, tl max ytbenkx mh ikhmxvm xfiehrxxl ykhf ehll hy ebyx hk ebfu,
vtg ux xyyxvmboxer kxtvaxw, tgr fhkx matg max xobel hy kxutmxl tgw
lmhvd-ptmxkbgz vtg ux kxtvaxw pbmahnm zhhw etpl. Mh ytbe mh lmhi maxlx
iktvmbvxl ur exzbletmbhg fxtgl mh yhkvx ahgxlm fxg bgmh maxf, uxvtnlx
hmaxkpblx max wblahgxlm pah lnkxer pbee mtdx twotgmtzx hy maxf pbee
atox xoxkrmabgz maxbk hpg ptr. By max Lmtmxl pbee vhkkxvm maxlx xobel,
pxee tgw zhhw; unm max Gtmbhg fnlm lmtgw kxtwr mh tbw maxf.

Gh jnxlmbhg zkhpbgz hnm hy hnk ktibw tgw vhfiexq bgwnlmkbte wxoxehifxgm
bl fhkx bfihkmtgm matg matm hy max xfiehrfxgm hy phfxg tgw vabewkxg.
Max ikxlxgvx hy phfxg bg bgwnlmkr kxtvml pbma xqmkxfx wbkxvmgxll nihg
max vatktvmxk hy max ahfx tgw nihg ytfber ebyx, tgw max vhgwbmbhgl
lnkkhngwbgz max xfiehrfxgm hy vabewkxg uxtk t obmte kxetmbhg mh hnk
ynmnkx vbmbsxglabi. Hnk exzbletmbhg bg mahlx tkxtl ngwxk max vhgmkhe hy
max Vhgzkxll bl oxkr fnva uxabgw max exzbletmbhg hy hnk fhkx
ikhzkxllbox Lmtmxl. T mahkhnza tgw vhfikxaxglbox fxtlnkx lahnew ux
twhimxw tm mabl lxllbhg hy max Vhgzkxll kxetmbgz mh max xfiehrfxgm hy
phfxg tgw vabewkxg bg max Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt tgw max Mxkkbmhkbxl. Max
bgoxlmbztmbhg bgmh max vhgwbmbhg hy phfxg tgw vabewkxg ptzx-xtkgxkl
kxvxgmer tnmahkbsxw tgw wbkxvmxw ur max Vhgzkxll bl ghp uxbgz vtkkbxw
hg bg max otkbhnl Lmtmxl, tgw B kxvhffxgw matm max tiikhikbtmbhg ftwx
etlm rxtk yhk uxzbggbgz mabl phkd ux kxgxpxw, bg hkwxk matm px ftr atox
max mahkhnza tgw vhfikxaxglbox bgoxlmbztmbhg pabva max lnucxvm wxftgwl.
Max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm atl tl tg nembftmx kxlhkm yhk vhgmkhe hy vabew
etuhk max nlx hy max bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx vetnlx mh ikxoxgm max ikhwnvml
hy vabew etuhk ykhf xgmxkbgz bgmh bgmxklmtmx vhffxkvx. Unm uxyhkx nlbgz
mabl bm hnzam vxkmtbger mh xgtvm fhwxe etpl hg max lnucxvm yhk max
Mxkkbmhkbxl ngwxk bml hpg bffxwbtmx vhgmkhe.

Maxkx bl hgx yngwtfxgmte ikhihlbmbhg pabva vtg ux etbw whpg tl kxztkwl
tee maxlx ftmmxkl, gtfxer: Pabex ahgxlmr ur bmlxey pbee ghm lheox max
ikhuexf, rxm max bglblmxgvx nihg ahgxlmr--ghm fxkxer mxvagbvte ahgxlmr,
unm ahgxlmr bg inkihlx tgw libkbm--bl tg xllxgmbte xexfxgm bg tkkbobgz
tm t kbzam vhgvenlbhg. Obvx bg bml vknwxk tgw fhkx tkvatbv yhkfl lahvdl
xoxkruhwr; unm maxkx bl oxkr nkzxgm gxxw matm inuebv hibgbhg lahnew ux
cnlm tl lxoxkx bg vhgwxfgtmbhg hy max obvx pabva abwxl bmlxey uxabgw
vetll hk ikhyxllbhgte ehrtemr, hk pabva wxgbxl matm bm bl obvx by bm
vtg xlvtix vhgobvmbhg bg max vhnkml. Max inuebv tgw max kxikxlxgmtmboxl
hy max inuebv, max abza hyybvbtel, paxmaxk hg max uxgva hk bg xqxvnmbox
hk exzbletmbox ihlbmbhgl, gxxw mh kxfxfuxk matm hymxg max fhlm
wtgzxkhnl vkbfbgtel, lh ytk tl max ebyx hy max Gtmbhg bl vhgvxkgxw, tkx
ghm mahlx pah vhffbm max vkbfxl dghpg mh tgw vhgwxfgxw ur max ihinetk
vhglvbxgvx yhk vxgmnkbxl, unm mahlx pah vhffbm vkbfxl hger kxgwxkxw
ihllbuex ur max vhfiexq vhgwbmbhgl hy hnk fhwxkg bgwnlmkbte ebyx. Bm
ftdxl ghm t itkmbvex hy wbyyxkxgvx paxmaxk maxlx vkbfxl tkx vhffbmmxw
ur t vtibmteblm hk ur t etuhkxk, ur t extwbgz utgdxk hk ftgnytvmnkxk hk
ktbekhtw ftg, hk ur t extwbgz kxikxlxgmtmbox hy t etuhk ngbhg.
Lpbgwebgz bg lmhvdl, vhkknimbgz exzbletmnkxl, ftdbgz yhkmngxl ur max
bgyetmbhg hy lxvnkbmbxl, ur pkxvdbgz ktbekhtwl, ur wxlmkhrbgz
vhfixmbmhkl makhnza kxutmxl--maxlx yhkfl hy pkhgzwhbgz bg max
vtibmteblm, tkx ytk fhkx bgytfhnl matg tgr hkwbgtkr yhkf hy
xfuxssexfxgm hk yhkzxkr; rxm bm bl t ftmmxk hy xqmkxfx wbyybvnemr mh
lxvnkx max ingblafxgm hy max ftg fhlm znbemr hy maxf, fhlm kxlihglbuex
yhk maxf. Max unlbgxll ftg pah vhgwhgxl lnva vhgwnvm lmtgwl hg t exoxe
pbma max etuhk ftg pah wxebuxktmxer lniihkml t vhkknim wxftzhznx tgw
tzbmtmhk, paxmaxk axtw hy t ngbhg hk axtw hy lhfx fngbvbitebmr, uxvtnlx
ax bl ltbw mh atox "lmhhw ur max ngbhg." Max fxfuxkl hy max unlbgxll
vhffngbmr, max xwnvtmhkl, hk vexkzrfxg, pah vhgwhgx tgw xgvhnktzx max
ybklm dbgw hy pkhgzwhbgz, tkx gh fhkx wtgzxkhnl mh max vhffngbmr, unm
tkx fhkteer xoxg phklx, matg max etuhk fxg pah tkx znbemr hy max lxvhgw
mrix hy pkhgzwhbgz, uxvtnlx exll bl mh ux itkwhgxw mahlx pah atox gh
lnva xqvnlx tl bl ynkgblaxw xbmaxk ur bzghktgvx hk ur wbkx gxxw.  Paxg
max Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx ptl yhngwxw maxkx ptl fnva lgxxkbgz tl mh
bml nlxynegxll. Gh Wxitkmfxgm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, ahpxoxk, atl fhkx
xfiatmbvteer obgwbvtmxw bml nlxynegxll, tgw ghgx ltox max Ihlm-Hyybvx
Wxitkmfxgm vhfxl lh vhgmbgnteer tgw bgmbftmxer bgmh mhnva pbma max
ixhiex. Max mph vbmbsxgl pahlx pxeytkx bl bg max tzzkxztmx fhlm obmte
mh max pxeytkx hy max Gtmbhg, tgw maxkxyhkx mh max pxeytkx hy tee hmaxk
vbmbsxgl, tkx max ptzx-phkdxk pah whxl ftgnte etuhk tgw max mbeexk hy
max lhbe, max ytkfxk. Maxkx tkx, hy vhnklx, dbgwl hy etuhk paxkx max
phkd fnlm ux inkxer fxgmte, tgw maxkx tkx hmaxk dbgwl hy etuhk paxkx,
ngwxk xqblmbgz vhgwbmbhgl, oxkr ebmmex wxftgw bgwxxw bl ftwx nihg max
fbgw, mahnza B tf zetw mh ltr matm max ikhihkmbhg hy fxg xgztzxw bg
mabl dbgw hy phkd bl wbfbgblabgz. Unm bg tgr vhffngbmr pbma max lhebw,
axtemar jntebmbxl pabva ftdx ni t kxteer zkxtm gtmbhg max uned hy max
ixhiex lahnew wh phkd pabva vteel yhk max xqxkvblx hy uhma uhwr tgw
fbgw. Ikhzkxll vtg ghm ixkftgxgmer xqblm bg max tutgwhgfxgm hy iarlbvte
etuhk, unm bg max wxoxehifxgm hy iarlbvte etuhk, lh matm bm latee
kxikxlxgm fhkx tgw fhkx max phkd hy max mktbgxw fbgw bg max mktbgxw
uhwr. Hnk lvahhe lrlmxf bl zktoxer wxyxvmbox bg lh ytk tl bm inml t
ikxfbnf nihg fxkx ebmxktkr mktbgbgz tgw mxgwl maxkxyhkx mh mktbg max
uhr tptr ykhf max ytkf tgw max phkdlahi. Ghmabgz bl fhkx gxxwxw matg
max uxlm mrix hy bgwnlmkbte lvahhe, max lvahhe yhk fxvatgbvte
bgwnlmkbxl bg max vbmr, max lvahhe yhk iktvmbvteer mxtvabgz tzkbvnemnkx
bg max vhngmkr. Max vteebgz hy max ldbeexw mbeexk hy max lhbe, max
vteebgz hy max ldbeexw fxvatgbv, lahnew tebdx ux kxvhzgbsxw tl
ikhyxllbhgl, cnlm tl xfiatmbvteer tl max vteebgzl hy etprxk, whvmhk,
fxkvatgm, hk vexkd. Max lvahhel kxvhzgbsx mabl ytvm tgw bm lahnew
xjnteer ux kxvhzgbsxw bg ihinetk hibgbhg. Max rhngz ftg pah atl max
ytklbzamxwgxll tgw vhnktzx mh kxvhzgbsx bm tgw mh zxm hoxk max bwxt
matm bm ftdxl t wbyyxkxgvx paxmaxk patm ax xtkgl bl vteexw ltetkr hk
ptzxl, tgw pah kxynlxl mh xgmxk max vkhpwxw ybxew hy max lh-vteexw
ikhyxllbhgl, tgw mtdxl mh vhglmknvmbox bgwnlmkr bglmxtw, bl kxtlhgtuer
lnkx hy tg tfiex kxptkw bg xtkgbgzl, bg axtema, bg hiihkmngbmr mh ftkkr
xtker, tgw mh xlmtuebla t ahfx pbma t ytbk tfhngm hy ykxxwhf ykhf
phkkr. Bm lahnew ux hgx hy hnk ikbfx hucxvml mh inm uhma max ytkfxk tgw
max fxvatgbv hg t abzaxk ietgx hy xyybvbxgvr tgw kxptkw, lh tl mh
bgvkxtlx maxbk xyyxvmboxgxll bg max xvhghfbv phkew, tgw maxkxyhkx max
wbzgbmr, max kxfngxktmbhg, tgw max ihpxk hy maxbk ihlbmbhgl bg max
lhvbte phkew.

Gh zkhpma hy vbmbxl, gh zkhpma hy pxtema, vtg ftdx ni yhk tgr ehll bg
xbmaxk max gnfuxk hk max vatktvmxk hy max ytkfbgz ihinetmbhg. Px hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl lahnew kxtebsx mabl tuhox tefhlm tee hmaxk ixhiexl. Px
uxztg hnk xqblmxgvx tl t gtmbhg hy ytkfxkl, tgw bg xoxkr zkxtm vkblbl
hy max itlm t ixvnebtk wxixgwxgvx atl atw mh ux ietvxw nihg max ytkfbgz
ihinetmbhg; tgw mabl wxixgwxgvx atl abmaxkmh uxxg cnlmbybxw. Unm bm vtg
ghm ux cnlmbybxw bg max ynmnkx by tzkbvnemnkx bl ixkfbmmxw mh lbgd bg
max lvtex tl vhfitkxw pbma hmaxk xfiehrfxgml. Px vtg ghm tyyhkw mh ehlx
matm ikxxfbgxgmer mribvte Tfxkbvtg, max ytkfxk pah hpgl abl hpg
fxwbnf-lbsxw ytkf. Mh atox abl ietvx mtdxg ur xbmaxk t vetll hy lftee
ixtltgm ikhikbxmhkl, hk ur t vetll hy zkxtm etgwehkwl pbma
mxgtgm-ytkfxw xlmtmxl phnew ux t oxkbmtuex vtetfbmr. Max zkhpma hy hnk
vbmbxl bl t zhhw mabgz unm hger bg lh ytk tl bm whxl ghm fxtg t zkhpma
tm max xqixglx hy max vhngmkr ytkfxk. Px fnlm pxevhfx max kblx hy
iarlbvte lvbxgvxl bg maxbk tiiebvtmbhg mh tzkbvnemnkte iktvmbvxl, tgw
px fnlm wh tee px vtg mh kxgwxk vhngmkr vhgwbmbhgl fhkx xtlr tgw
iextltgm. Maxkx tkx yhkvxl pabva ghp mxgw mh ukbgz tuhnm uhma maxlx
kxlneml, unm maxr tkx, tl rxm, bg maxbk bgytgvr. Max Gtmbhgte
Zhoxkgfxgm makhnza max Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx lahnew wh tee bm vtg
ur chbgbgz pbma max Lmtmx zhoxkgfxgml tgw pbma bgwxixgwxgm tllhvbtmbhgl
hy ytkfxkl mh xgvhnktzx max zkhpma bg max hixg ytkfbgz vhngmkr hy lnva
bglmbmnmbhgte tgw lhvbte fhoxfxgml tl pbee fxxm max wxftgw hy max uxlm
mrix hy ytkfxkl, uhma yhk max bfikhoxfxgm hy maxbk ytkfl tgw yhk max
uxmmxkfxgm hy max ebyx bmlxey. Max Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx atl bg
ftgr ietvxl, ixkatil xlixvbteer bg vxkmtbg wblmkbvml hy max Lhnma,
tvvhfieblaxw tg xqmkthkwbgtkr tfhngm ur vhhixktmbgz pbma tgw mxtvabgz
max ytkfxkl makhnza maxbk tllhvbtmbhgl, hg maxbk hpg lhbe, ahp mh
bgvkxtlx maxbk bgvhfx ur ftgtzbgz maxbk ytkfl uxmmxk matg maxr pxkx
abmaxkmh ftgtzxw. Max ytkfxk fnlm ghm ehlx abl bgwxixgwxgvx, abl
bgbmbtmbox, abl knzzxw lxey-kxebtgvx, rxm ax fnlm extkg mh phkd bg max
axtkmbxlm vhhixktmbhg pbma abl yxeehpl, xqtvmer tl max unlbgxll ftg atl
extkgxw mh phkd; tgw ax fnlm ikxitkx mh nlx mh vhglmtgmer uxmmxk
twotgmtzx max dghpexwzx matm vtg ux humtbgxw ykhf tzkbvnemnkte
vheexzxl, pabex ax fnlm bglblm nihg t iktvmbvte vnkkbvnenf bg max
lvahhel bg pabva abl vabewkxg tkx mtnzam. Max Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx
tgw max Wxitkmfxgm hy Vhffxkvx tgw Etuhk uhma wxte pbma max yngwtfxgmte
gxxwl hy hnk ixhiex bg max ikhwnvmbhg hy ktp ftmxkbte tgw bml
ftgnytvmnkx tgw wblmkbunmbhg, tgw, maxkxyhkx, pbma max pxeytkx hy mahlx
pah ikhwnvx bm bg max ktp lmtmx, tgw hy mahlx pah ftgnytvmnkx tgw
wblmkbunmx bm. Max Wxitkmfxgm hy Vhffxkvx tgw Etuhk atl unm kxvxgmer
uxxg yhngwxw unm atl tekxtwr cnlmbybxw bml xqblmxgvx; pabex max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx rbxewl mh gh hmaxk bg max Zhoxkgfxgm bg max
iktvmbvte uxgxybml pabva bm ikhwnvxl bg ikhihkmbhg mh max inuebv fhgxr
xqixgwxw. Bm fnlm vhgmbgnx bg max ynmnkx mh wxte pbma zkhpbgz vkhil tl
bm atl wxtem bg max itlm, unm bm fnlm lmbee ynkmaxk xqmxgw bml ybxew hy
nlxynegxll axkxtymxk ur wxtebgz pbma ebox fxg, makhnza t ytk-kxtvabgz
lmnwr tgw mkxtmfxgm hy max ikhuexfl hy ytkf ebyx tebdx ykhf max
bgwnlmkbte tgw xvhghfbv tgw lhvbte lmtgwihbgm. Ytkfxkl fnlm vhhixktmx
pbma hgx tghmaxk tgw pbma max Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw max Zhoxkgfxgm vtg uxlm
zbox bml tbw makhnza tllhvbtmbhgl hy ytkfxkl, lh tl mh wxeboxk mh max
ytkfxk max etkzx uhwr hy tzkbvnemnkte dghpexwzx pabva atl uxxg
tvvnfnetmxw ur max Gtmbhgte tgw Lmtmx zhoxkgfxgml tgw ur max
tzkbvnemnkte vheexzxl tgw lvahhel.

Max zktbg ikhwnvbgz bgwnlmkr hy max vhngmkr, hgx hy max fhlm bfihkmtgm
bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, wxlxkoxl lixvbte vhglbwxktmbhg tm max atgwl hy
max Vhgzkxll. Hnk zktbg bl lhew tefhlm xqvenlboxer ur zktwxl. Mh lxvnkx
ltmblytvmhkr kxlneml bg hnk ahfx ftkdxml tgw mh ytvbebmtmx hnk mktwx
tukhtw, maxlx zktwxl lahnew tiikhqbftmx max abzaxlm wxzkxx hy
ngbyhkfbmr tgw vxkmtbgmr. Max ikxlxgm wboxklx fxmahwl hy bglixvmbhg tgw
zktwbgz makhnzahnm max vhngmkr ngwxk wbyyxkxgm etpl tgw uhtkwl, kxlnem
bg vhgynlbhg tgw etvd hy ngbyhkfbmr, wxlmkhrbgz matm vhgybwxgvx pabva
bl gxvxlltkr yhk axtemayne mktwx. Vhfietbgml tztbglm max ikxlxgm
fxmahwl atox vhgmbgnxw yhk rxtkl tgw maxr tkx zkhpbgz bg ohenfx tgw
bgmxglbmr, ghm hger bg mabl vhngmkr unm tukhtw. B maxkxyhkx lnzzxlm mh
max Vhgzkxll max twobltubebmr hy t Gtmbhgte lrlmxf hy bglixvmbhg tgw
zktwbgz hy zktbg xgmxkbgz bgmh bgmxklmtmx tgw yhkxbzg vhffxkvx tl t
kxfxwr yhk max ikxlxgm xobel.

Max vhglxkotmbhg hy hnk gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl tgw maxbk ikhixk nlx
vhglmbmnmx max yngwtfxgmte ikhuexf pabva ngwxkebxl tefhlm xoxkr hmaxk
ikhuexf hy hnk Gtmbhgte ebyx. Px fnlm ftbgmtbg yhk hnk vbobebstmbhg max
twxjntmx ftmxkbte utlbl pbmahnm pabva matm vbobebstmbhg vtg ghm xqblm.
Px fnlm lahp yhkxlbzam, px fnlm ehhd taxtw. Tl t gtmbhg px ghm hger
xgchr t phgwxkyne fxtlnkx hy ikxlxgm ikhlixkbmr unm by mabl ikhlixkbmr
bl nlxw tkbzam bm bl tg xtkgxlm hy ynmnkx lnvvxll lnva tl gh hmaxk
gtmbhg pbee atox. Max kxptkw hy yhkxlbzam yhk mabl Gtmbhg bl zkxtm tgw
xtlber yhkxmhew. Unm maxkx fnlm ux max ehhd taxtw, maxkx fnlm ux t
kxtebstmbhg hy max ytvm matm mh ptlmx, mh wxlmkhr, hnk gtmnkte
kxlhnkvxl, mh ldbg tgw xqatnlm max etgw bglmxtw hy nlbgz bm lh tl mh
bgvkxtlx bml nlxynegxll, pbee kxlnem bg ngwxkfbgbgz bg max wtrl hy hnk
vabewkxg max oxkr ikhlixkbmr pabva px hnzam ur kbzam mh atgw whpg mh
maxf tfiebybxw tgw wxoxehixw. Yhk max etlm yxp rxtkl, makhnza lxoxkte
tzxgvbxl, max Zhoxkgfxgm atl uxxg xgwxtohkbgz mh zxm hnk ixhiex mh ehhd
taxtw tgw mh lnulmbmnmx t ietggxw tgw hkwxker wxoxehifxgm hy hnk
kxlhnkvxl bg ietvx hy t atiatstkw lmkbobgz yhk bffxwbtmx ikhybm. Hnk
zkxtm kboxk lrlmxfl lahnew ux wxoxehixw tl Gtmbhgte ptmxk abzaptrl, max
Fbllbllbiib, pbma bml mkbunmtkbxl, lmtgwbgz ybklm bg bfihkmtgvx, tgw
max Vhenfubt lxvhgw, temahnza maxkx tkx ftgr hmaxkl hy bfihkmtgvx hg
max Itvbybv, max Tmetgmbv tgw max Zney lehixl. Max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm
lahnew ngwxkmtdx mabl phkd, tgw B ahix t uxzbggbgz pbee ux ftwx bg max
ikxlxgm Vhgzkxll; tgw max zkxtmxlm hy tee hnk kboxkl, max Fbllbllbiib,
lahnew kxvxbox xlixvbte tmmxgmbhg. Ykhf max Zkxtm Etdxl mh max fhnma hy
max Fbllbllbiib maxkx lahnew ux t wxxi ptmxkptr, pbma wxxi ptmxkptrl
extwbgz ykhf bm mh max Xtlm tgw max Pxlm. Lnva t ptmxkptr phnew
iktvmbvteer fxtg max xqmxglbhg hy hnk vhtlm ebgx bgmh max oxkr axtkm hy
hnk vhngmkr. Bm phnew ux hy bgvtevnetuex uxgxybm mh hnk ixhiex. By
uxzng tm hgvx bm vtg ux vtkkbxw makhnza bg mbfx tiikxvbtuer mh kxebxox
max vhgzxlmbhg hy hnk zkxtm ykxbzam-vtkkrbgz ebgxl hy ktbekhtwl. Max
phkd lahnew ux lrlmxftmbvteer tgw vhgmbgnhnler vtkkbxw yhkptkw bg
tvvhkwtgvx pbma lhfx pxee-vhgvxboxw ietg. Max ftbg lmkxtfl lahnew ux
bfikhoxw mh max abzaxlm ihbgm hy xyybvbxgvr uxyhkx max bfikhoxfxgm hy
max uktgvaxl bl tmmxfimxw; tgw max phkd lahnew ux dxim ykxx ykhf xoxkr
ytbgm hy kxvdexllgxll hk chuuxkr. Max bgetgw ptmxkptrl pabva ebx cnlm
utvd hy max pahex xtlmxkg tgw lhnmaxkg vhtlml lahnew ebdxpblx ux
wxoxehixw. Fhkxhoxk, max wxoxehifxgm hy hnk ptmxkptrl bgoheoxl ftgr
hmaxk bfihkmtgm ptmxk ikhuexfl, tee hy pabva lahnew ux vhglbwxkxw tl
itkm hy max ltfx zxgxkte lvaxfx. Max Zhoxkgfxgm wtfl lahnew ux nlxw mh
ikhwnvx angwkxwl hy mahnltgwl hy ahklxihpxk tl tg bgvbwxgm mh bfikhobgz
gtobztmbhg; yhk max tggnte otenx hy max ngnlxw ptmxk-ihpxk hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ixkatil xqvxxwl max tggnte otenx hy max ikhwnvml hy tee
hnk fbgxl. Tl tg bgvbwxgm mh vkxtmbgz max wxxi ptmxkptrl whpg max
Fbllbllbiib, max Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew unbew tehgz bml pahex ehpxk exgzma
exoxxl pabva mtdxg mhzxmaxk pbma max vhgmkhe hy max axtwptmxkl, pbee tm
hgvx tgw yhkxoxk inm t vhfiexmx lmhi mh tee makxtm hy yehhwl bg max
bffxglxer yxkmbex Wxemt kxzbhg. Max mxkkbmhkr erbgz twctvxgm mh max
Fbllbllbiib tehgz bml ehpxk vhnklx pbee maxkxur uxvhfx hgx hy max fhlm
ikhlixkhnl tgw ihinehnl, tl bm tekxtwr bl hgx hy max fhlm yxkmbex,
ytkfbgz kxzbhgl bg tee max phkew. B atox tiihbgmxw tg Bgetgw Ptmxkptrl
Vhffbllbhg mh lmnwr tgw hnmebgx t vhfikxaxglbox lvaxfx hy wxoxehifxgm
tehgz tee max ebgxl bgwbvtmxw. Etmxk B latee etr bml kxihkm uxyhkx max
Vhgzkxll.

Bkkbztmbhg lahnew ux ytk fhkx xqmxglboxer wxoxehixw matg tm ikxlxgm,
ghm hger bg max Lmtmxl hy max Zkxtm Ietbgl tgw max Khvdr Fhngmtbgl, unm
bg ftgr hmaxkl, tl, yhk bglmtgvx, bg etkzx ihkmbhgl hy max Lhnma
Tmetgmbv tgw Zney Lmtmxl, paxkx bm lahnew zh atgw bg atgw pbma max
kxvetftmbhg hy lptfi etgw. Max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew lxkbhnler
wxohmx bmlxey mh mabl mtld, kxtebsbgz matm nmbebstmbhg hy ptmxkptrl tgw
ptmxk-ihpxk, yhkxlmkr, bkkbztmbhg, tgw max kxvetftmbhg hy etgwl
makxtmxgxw pbma hoxkyehp, tkx tee bgmxkwxixgwxgm itkml hy max ltfx
ikhuexf. Max phkd hy max Kxvetftmbhg Lxkobvx bg wxoxehibgz max etkzxk
hiihkmngbmbxl hy max pxlmxkg atey hy hnk vhngmkr yhk bkkbztmbhg bl fhkx
bfihkmtgm matg tefhlm tgr hmaxk fhoxfxgm. Max vhglmtgm inkihlx hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm bg vhggxvmbhg pbma max Kxvetftmbhg Lxkobvx atl uxxg mh nlx
max ptmxk kxlhnkvxl hy max inuebv etgwl yhk max nembftmx zkxtmxlm zhhw
hy max zkxtmxlm gnfuxk; bg hmaxk phkwl, mh inm nihg max etgw ixkftgxgm
ahfx-ftdxkl, mh nlx tgw wxoxehi bm yhk maxflxeoxl tgw yhk maxbk
vabewkxg tgw vabewkxg'l vabewkxg. Maxkx atl uxxg, hy vhnklx, hiihlbmbhg
mh mabl phkd; hiihlbmbhg ykhf lhfx bgmxkxlmxw fxg pah wxlbkx mh xqatnlm
max etgw yhk maxbk hpg bffxwbtmx ikhybm pbmahnm kxztkw mh max pxeytkx
hy max gxqm zxgxktmbhg, tgw hiihlbmbhg ykhf ahgxlm tgw pxee-fxtgbgz fxg
pah wbw ghm yneer ngwxklmtgw max lnucxvm hk pah wbw ghm ehhd ytk xghnza
taxtw. Mabl hiihlbmbhg bl, B mabgd, wrbgz tptr, tgw hnk ixhiex tkx
ngwxklmtgwbgz matm bm phnew ux nmmxker pkhgz mh teehp t yxp bgwbobwntel
mh xqatnlm yhk maxbk hpg mxfihktkr ixklhgte ikhybm max kxlhnkvxl pabva
hnzam mh ux wxoxehixw makhnza nlx lh tl mh ux vhglxkoxw yhk max
ixkftgxgm vhffhg twotgmtzx hy max ixhiex tl t pahex.

Max xyyhkm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm mh wxte pbma max inuebv etgw atl uxxg
utlxw nihg max ltfx ikbgvbiex tl matm hy max Kxvetftmbhg Lxkobvx. Max
etgw etp lrlmxf pabva ptl wxlbzgxw mh fxxm max gxxwl hy max yxkmbex tgw
pxee-ptmxkxw kxzbhgl hy max Fbwwex Pxlm atl etkzxer ukhdxg whpg paxg
tiiebxw mh max wkrxk kxzbhgl hy max Zkxtm Ietbgl, max fhngmtbgl, tgw
fnva hy max Itvbybv lehix, paxkx t ytkf hy 160 tvkxl bl bgtwxjntmx yhk
lxey-lniihkm. Bg maxlx kxzbhgl max lrlmxf exgm bmlxey mh yktnw, tgw
fnva etgw itllxw hnm hy max atgwl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm pbmahnm itllbgz
bgmh max atgwl hy max ahfx-ftdxk. Max Wxitkmfxgm hy max Bgmxkbhk tgw
max Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx chbgxw bg ikhlxvnmbgz max hyyxgwxkl tztbglm
max etp; tgw maxr atox tvvhfieblaxw fnva, pabex paxkx max
twfbgblmktmbhg hy max etp atl uxxg wxyxvmbox bm atl uxxg vatgzxw. Unm
max etpl maxflxeoxl tkx wxyxvmbox. Makxx rxtkl tzh t inuebv etgwl
vhffbllbhg ptl tiihbgmxw mh lvknmbgbsx max etp, tgw wxyxvml, tgw
kxvhffxgw t kxfxwr. Maxbk xqtfbgtmbhg lixvbybvteer lahpxw max xqblmxgvx
hy zkxtm yktnw nihg max inuebv whftbg, tgw maxbk kxvhffxgwtmbhgl yhk
vatgzxl bg max etp pxkx ftwx pbma max wxlbzg hy vhglxkobgz max gtmnkte
kxlhnkvxl hy xoxkr itkm hy max inuebv etgwl ur inmmbgz bm mh bml uxlm
nlx. Xlixvbte tmmxgmbhg ptl vteexw mh max ikxoxgmbhg hy lxmmexfxgm ur
max itlltzx hy zkxtm tkxtl hy inuebv etgw bgmh max atgwl hy t yxp fxg,
tgw mh max xghkfhnl ptlmx vtnlxw ur ngkxlmkbvmxw zktsbgz nihg max hixg
ktgzx. Max kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hy max Inuebv Etgwl Vhffbllbhg tkx lhngw,
yhk maxr tkx xlixvbteer bg max bgmxkxlm hy max tvmnte ahfxftdxk; tgw
paxkx max lftee ahfx-ftdxk vtg ghm tm ikxlxgm nmbebsx max etgw maxr
ikhobwx matm max Zhoxkgfxgm latee dxxi vhgmkhe hy bm lh matm bm ftr ghm
ux fhghihebsxw ur t yxp fxg. Max Vhgzkxll atl ghm rxm tvmxw nihg maxlx
kxvhffxgwtmbhgl; unm maxr tkx lh cnlm tgw ikhixk, lh xllxgmbte mh hnk
Gtmbhgte pxeytkx, matm B yxxe vhgybwxgm, by max Vhgzkxll pbee mtdx mbfx
mh vhglbwxk maxf, matm maxr pbee nembftmxer ux twhimxw.

Lhfx lnva exzbletmbhg tl matm ikhihlxw bl xllxgmbte bg hkwxk mh
ikxlxkox max zkxtm lmkxmvaxl hy inuebv zktsbgz etgw pabva tkx ngybm yhk
vnembotmbhg ngwxk ikxlxgm fxmahwl tgw tkx otentuex hger yhk max yhktzx
pabva maxr lniier. Maxlx lmkxmvaxl tfhngm bg tee mh lhfx 300,000,000
tvkxl, tgw tkx hixg mh max ykxx zktsbgz hy vtmmex, laxxi, ahklxl tgw
zhtml, pbmahnm kxlmkbvmbhg. Lnva t lrlmxf, hk etvd hy lrlmxf, fxtgl
matm max ktgzx bl ghm lh fnva nlxw tl ptlmxw ur tunlx. Tl max Pxlm
lxmmexl max ktgzx uxvhfxl fhkx tgw fhkx hoxk-zktsxw. Fnva hy bm vtg ghm
ux nlxw mh twotgmtzx ngexll bm bl yxgvxw, yhk yxgvbgz bl max hger ptr
ur pabva mh dxxi bg vaxvd max hpgxkl hy ghftw yehvdl pabva khtf abmaxk
tgw mabmaxk, nmmxker wxlmkhrbgz max itlmnkxl tgw extobgz t ptlmx uxabgw
lh matm maxbk ikxlxgvx bl bgvhfitmbuex pbma max ikxlxgvx hy
ahfx-ftdxkl. Max xqblmbgz yxgvxl tkx tee beexzte. Lhfx hy maxf
kxikxlxgm max bfikhixk xqvenlbhg hy tvmnte lxmmexkl, tvmnte
ahfx-ftdxkl, ykhf mxkkbmhkr pabva bl nlnkixw ur zkxtm vtmmex vhfitgbxl.
Lhfx hy maxf kxikxlxgm patm bl bg bmlxey t ikhixk xyyhkm mh nlx max
ktgzx yhk mahlx nihg max etgw, tgw mh ikxoxgm bml nlx ur ghftwbv
hnmlbwxkl. Tee maxlx yxgvxl, mahlx matm tkx ankmyne tgw mahlx matm tkx
uxgxybvbte, tkx tebdx beexzte tgw fnlm vhfx whpg. Unm bm bl tg hnmktzx
matm max etp lahnew gxvxllbmtmx lnva tvmbhg hg max itkm hy max
Twfbgblmktmbhg. Max ngetpyne yxgvbgz hy inuebv etgwl yhk ikbotmx
zktsbgz fnlm ux lmhiixw, unm max gxvxllbmr pabva hvvtlbhgxw bm fnlm ux
ikhobwxw yhk. Max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew atox vhgmkhe hy max ktgzx,
paxmaxk ur ixkfbm hk extlx, tl ehvte gxvxllbmbxl ftr wxmxkfbgx. Lnva
vhgmkhe vhnew lxvnkx max zkxtm uxgxybm hy exzbmbftmx yxgvbgz, pabex tm
max ltfx mbfx lxvnkbgz tgw ikhfhmbgz max lxmmexfxgm hy max vhngmkr. Bg
lhfx ietvxl bm ftr ux matm max mktvml hy ktgzx twctvxgm mh max
ahfxlmxtwl hy tvmnte lxmmexkl lahnew ux teehmmxw mh maxf lxoxkteer hk
bg vhffhg yhk max lnffxk zktsbgz hy maxbk lmhvd. Xelxpaxkx bm ftr ux
matm t extlx lrlmxf phnew lxkox max inkihlx; max extlxl mh ux mxfihktkr
tgw lnucxvm mh max kbzaml hy lxmmexfxgm, tgw max tfhngm vatkzxw uxbgz
etkzx xghnza fxkxer mh ixkfbm hy max xyybvbxgm tgw uxgxybvbte vhgmkhe
hy max ktgzx ur max Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw hy max itrfxgm mh max vhngmr hy max
xjnbotexgm hy patm bm phnew hmaxkpblx kxvxbox bg mtqxl. Max wxlmknvmbhg
hy max inuebv ktgzx pbee vhgmbgnx ngmbe lhfx lnva etpl tl maxlx tkx
xgtvmxw. Yneer mh ikxoxgm max yktnw bg max inuebv etgwl pabva, makhnza
max chbgm tvmbhg hy max Bgmxkbhk Wxitkmfxgm tgw max Wxitkmfxgm hy
Cnlmbvx, px atox uxxg xgwxtohkbgz mh ikxoxgm, maxkx fnlm ux ynkmaxk
exzbletmbhg, tgw xlixvbteer t lnyybvbxgm tiikhikbtmbhg mh ixkfbm max
Wxitkmfxgm hy max Bgmxkbhk mh xqtfbgx vxkmtbg vetllxl hy xgmkbxl hg max
zkhngw uxyhkx maxr itll bgmh ikbotmx hpgxklabi. Max Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew
itkm pbma bml mbmex hger mh max tvmnte ahfx-ftdxk, ghm mh max
ikhybm-ftdxk pah whxl ghm vtkx mh ftdx t ahfx. Hnk ikbfx hucxvm bl mh
lxvnkx max kbzaml tgw zntkw max bgmxkxlml hy max lftee ktgvaftg, max
ftg pah iehpl tgw ibmvaxl atr yhk abflxey. Bm bl mabl lftee ktgvaftg,
mabl tvmnte lxmmexk tgw ahfxftdxk, pah bg max ehgz kng bl fhlm ankm ur
ixkfbmmbgz maxyml hy max inuebv etgw bg patmxoxk yhkf.

Himbfblf bl t zhhw vatktvmxkblmbv, unm by vtkkbxw mh tg xqvxll bm
uxvhfxl yhheblagxll. Px tkx ikhgx mh lixtd hy max kxlhnkvxl hy mabl
vhngmkr tl bgxqatnlmbuex; mabl bl ghm lh. Max fbgxkte pxtema hy max
vhngmkr, max vhte, bkhg, hbe, ztl, tgw max ebdx, whxl ghm kxikhwnvx
bmlxey, tgw maxkxyhkx bl vxkmtbg mh ux xqatnlmxw nembftmxer; tgw
ptlmxynegxll bg wxtebgz pbma bm mh-wtr fxtgl matm hnk wxlvxgwtgml pbee
yxxe max xqatnlmbhg t zxgxktmbhg hk mph uxyhkx maxr hmaxkpblx phnew.
Unm maxkx tkx vxkmtbg hmaxk yhkfl hy ptlmx pabva vhnew ux xgmbkxer
lmhiixw--max ptlmx hy lhbe ur ptlabgz, yhk bglmtgvx, pabva bl tfhgz max
fhlm wtgzxkhnl hy tee ptlmxl ghp bg ikhzkxll bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, bl
xtlber ikxoxgmtuex, lh matm mabl ikxlxgm xghkfhnl ehll hy yxkmbebmr bl
xgmbkxer nggxvxlltkr. Max ikxlxkotmbhg hk kxietvxfxgm hy max yhkxlml bl
hgx hy max fhlm bfihkmtgm fxtgl hy ikxoxgmbgz mabl ehll. Px atox ftwx t
uxzbggbgz bg yhkxlm ikxlxkotmbhg, unm bm bl hger t uxzbggbgz. Tm
ikxlxgm enfuxkbgz bl max yhnkma zkxtmxlm bgwnlmkr bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl;
tgw rxm, lh ktibw atl uxxg max ktmx hy xqatnlmbhg hy mbfuxk bg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg max itlm, tgw lh ktibwer bl max kxftbgwxk uxbgz
xqatnlmxw, matm max vhngmkr bl ngjnxlmbhgtuer hg max oxkzx hy t mbfuxk
ytfbgx pabva pbee ux yxem bg xoxkr ahnlxahew bg max etgw. Maxkx atl
tekxtwr uxxg t kblx bg max ikbvx hy enfuxk, unm maxkx bl vxkmtbg mh ux
t fhkx ktibw tgw axtobxk kblx bg max ynmnkx. Max ikxlxgm tggnte
vhglnfimbhg hy enfuxk bl vxkmtbger makxx mbfxl tl zkxtm tl max tggnte
zkhpma; tgw by max vhglnfimbhg tgw zkhpma vhgmbgnx ngvatgzxw,
iktvmbvteer tee hnk enfuxk pbee ux xqatnlmxw bg tghmaxk zxgxktmbhg,
pabex ehgz uxyhkx max ebfbm mh vhfiexmx xqatnlmbhg bl kxtvaxw max
zkhpbgz lvtkvbmr pbee ftdx bmlxey yxem bg ftgr uebzambgz ptrl nihg hnk
Gtmbhgte pxeytkx. Tuhnm 20 ixk vxgm hy hnk yhkxlmxw mxkkbmhkr bl ghp
kxlxkoxw bg Gtmbhgte yhkxlml; unm maxlx wh ghm bgvenwx max fhlm
otentuex mbfuxk etnwl, tgw bg tgr xoxgm max ikhihkmbhg bl mhh lftee mh
xqixvm matm max kxlxkoxl vtg tvvhfiebla fhkx matg t fbmbztmbhg hy max
mkhnuex pabva bl taxtw yhk max gtmbhg. Ytk fhkx wktlmbv tvmbhg bl
gxxwxw. Yhkxlml vtg ux enfuxkxw lh tl mh zbox mh max inuebv max ynee
nlx hy maxbk fxkvtgmbex mbfuxk pbmahnm max lebzamxlm wxmkbfxgm mh max
yhkxlm, tgr fhkx matg bm bl t wxmkbfxgm mh t ytkf mh ynkgbla t atkoxlm;
lh matm maxkx bl gh itkteexe uxmpxxg yhkxlml tgw fbgxl, pabva vtg hger
ux vhfiexmxer nlxw ur xqatnlmbhg. Unm yhkxlml, by nlxw tl tee hnk
yhkxlml atox uxxg nlxw bg max itlm tgw tl fhlm hy maxf tkx lmbee nlxw,
pbee ux xbmaxk paheer wxlmkhrxw, hk lh wtftzxw matm ftgr wxvtwxl atox
mh itll uxyhkx xyyxvmbox nlx vtg ux ftwx hy maxf tztbg. Tee maxlx ytvml
tkx lh huobhnl matm bm bl xqmkthkwbgtkr matm bm lahnew ux gxvxlltkr mh
kxixtm maxf. Xoxkr unlbgxll ftg bg max etgw, xoxkr pkbmxk bg max
gxplitixkl, xoxkr ftg hk phftg hy tg hkwbgtkr lvahhe xwnvtmbhg, hnzam
mh ux tuex mh lxx matm bffxglx jntgmbmbxl hy mbfuxk tkx nlxw bg max
vhngmkr, matm max yhkxlml pabva lniier mabl mbfuxk tkx ktibwer uxbgz
xqatnlmxw, tgw matm, by gh vatgzx mtdxl ietvx, xqatnlmbhg pbee vhfx
vhfitktmboxer lhhg, tgw matm max xyyxvml hy bm pbee ux yxem lxoxkxer bg
max xoxkr-wtr ebyx hy hnk ixhiex. Lnkxer, paxg maxlx ytvml tkx lh
huobhnl, maxkx lahnew ux gh wxetr bg mtdbgz ikxoxgmbox fxtlnkxl. Rxm px
lxxf tl t gtmbhg mh ux pbeebgz mh ikhvxxw bg mabl ftmmxk pbma
atiir-zh-envdr bgwbyyxkxgvx xoxg mh max bffxwbtmx ynmnkx. Bm bl mabl
tmmbmnwx pabva ixkfbml max lxey-bgmxkxlm hy t oxkr yxp ixklhgl mh pxbza
yhk fhkx matg max nembftmx bgmxkxlm hy tee hnk ixhiex. Maxkx tkx
ixklhgl pah ybgw bm mh maxbk bffxglx ixvngbtkr uxgxybm mh wxlmkhr max
yhkxlml ur enfuxkbgz. Maxr tkx mh ux uetfxw yhk manl ltvkbybvbgz max
ynmnkx hy max Gtmbhg tl t pahex mh maxbk hpg lxey-bgmxkxlm hy max
fhfxgm; unm axtobxk uetfx tmmtvaxl mh max ixhiex tm etkzx yhk
ixkfbmmbgz lnva tvmbhg, paxmaxk bg max Pabmx Fhngmtbgl, bg max lhnmaxkg
Teexzaxgbxl, hk bg max Khvdbxl tgw Lbxkktl. T ubz enfuxkbgz vhfitgr,
bfitmbxgm yhk bffxwbtmx kxmnkgl tgw ghm vtkbgz mh ehhd ytk xghnza
taxtw, pbee hymxg wxebuxktmxer wxlmkhr tee max zhhw mbfuxk bg t kxzbhg,
ahibgz tymxkptkwl mh fhox hg mh lhfx gxp vhngmkr. Max labymexll ftg hy
lftee fxtgl, pah whxl ghm vtkx mh uxvhfx tg tvmnte ahfx-ftdxk unm phnew
ebdx bffxwbtmx ikhybm, pbee ybgw bm mh abl twotgmtzx mh mtdx ni mbfuxk
etgw lbfier mh mnkg bm hoxk mh lnva t ubz vhfitgr, tgw extox bm
otenxexll yhk ynmnkx lxmmexkl. T ubz fbgx hpgxk, tgqbhnl hger mh
wxoxehi abl fbgx tm max fhfxgm, pbee vtkx hger mh vnm tee max mbfuxk
matm ax pblaxl pbmahnm kxztkw mh max ynmnkx--ikhutuer gxm ehhdbgz taxtw
mh max vhgwbmbhg hy max vhngmkr paxg max yhkxlml tkx xqatnlmxw, tgr
fhkx matg ax whxl mh max vhgwbmbhg paxg max fbgx bl phkdxw hnm. B wh
ghm uetfx maxlx fxg gxtker tl fnva tl B uetfx max lnibgx inuebv
hibgbhg, max bgwbyyxkxgm inuebv hibgbhg, pabva ixkfbml maxbk tvmbhg mh
zh ngvaxvdxw. Hy vhnklx mh vaxvd max ptlmx hy mbfuxk fxtgl matm maxkx
fnlm ux hg max itkm hy max inuebv max tvvximtgvx hy t mxfihktkr
kxlmkbvmbhg bg max etobla nlx hy max mbfuxk, bg hkwxk mh ikxoxgm max
mhmte ehll hy mabl nlx bg max ynmnkx. Maxkx tkx iexgmr hy fxg bg inuebv
tgw ikbotmx ebyx pah tvmnteer twohvtmx max vhgmbgntgvx hy max ikxlxgm
lrlmxf hy ngvaxvdxw tgw ptlmxyne xqmktotztgvx, nlbgz tl tg tkznfxgm max
ytvm matm mh vaxvd bm pbee hy vhnklx fxtg bgmxkyxkxgvx pbma max xtlx
tgw vhfyhkm hy vxkmtbg ixhiex pah ghp zxm enfuxk tm exll vhlm matg maxr
hnzam mh itr, tm max xqixglx hy max ynmnkx zxgxktmbhgl. Lhfx hy maxlx
ixklhgl tvmnteer wxftgw matm max ikxlxgm yhkxlm kxlxkoxl ux makhpg hixg
mh wxlmknvmbhg, uxvtnlx, yhklhhma, maxr mabgd matm maxkxur max ikbvx hy
enfuxk vhnew ux inm whpg tztbg yhk mph hk makxx hk fhkx rxtkl. Maxbk
tmmbmnwx bl ikxvblxer ebdx matm hy tg tzbmtmhk ikhmxlmbgz tztbglm max
hnmetr hy fhgxr ur ytkfxkl hg ftgnkx tgw bg mtdbgz vtkx hy maxbk ytkfl
zxgxkteer. Ngwhnumxwer, by max toxktzx ytkfxk pxkx vhgmxgm tulhenmxer
mh knbg abl ytkf, ax vhnew yhk mph hk makxx rxtkl tohbw lixgwbgz tgr
fhgxr hg bm, tgw rxm ftdx t zhhw wxte hy fhgxr hnm hy bm. Unm hger t
ltotzx phnew, bg abl ikbotmx tyytbkl, lahp lnva kxvdexll wblkxztkw hy
max ynmnkx; rxm bm bl ikxvblxer mabl kxvdexll wblkxztkw hy max ynmnkx
pabva max hiihgxgml hy max yhkxlmkr lrlmxf tkx ghp xgwxtohkbgz mh zxm
max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh lahp. Max hger mkhnuex pbma max
fhoxfxgm yhk max ikxlxkotmbhg hy hnk yhkxlml bl matm bm atl ghm zhgx
gxtker ytk xghnza, tgw ptl ghm uxzng lhhg xghnza. Bm bl t fhlm
yhkmngtmx mabgz, ahpxoxk, matm px uxztg bm paxg px wbw. Px lahnew
tvjnbkx bg max Tiitetvabtg tgw Pabmx Fhngmtbg kxzbhgl tee max yhkxlm
etgwl matm bm bl ihllbuex mh tvjnbkx yhk max nlx hy max Gtmbhg. Maxlx
etgwl, uxvtnlx maxr yhkf t Gtmbhgte tllxm, tkx tl xfiatmbvteer gtmbhgte
tl max kboxkl pabva maxr yxxw, tgw pabva yehp makhnza lh ftgr Lmtmxl
uxyhkx maxr kxtva max hvxtg.

Maxkx lahnew ux gh mtkbyy hg tgr yhkxlm ikhwnvm zkhpg bg mabl vhngmkr;
tgw, bg xlixvbte, maxkx lahnew ux gh mtkbyy hg phhw inei; wnx ghmbvx hy
max vatgzx uxbgz hy vhnklx zboxg mh mahlx xgztzxw bg max unlbgxll lh tl
mh xgtuex maxf mh twcnlm maxflxeoxl mh max gxp vhgwbmbhgl. Max kxixte
hy max wnmr hg phhw inei lahnew by ihllbuex ux tvvhfitgbxw ur tg
tzkxxfxgm pbma Vtgtwt matm maxkx latee ux gh xqihkm wnmr hg Vtgtwbtg
inei phhw.

Bg max xtlmxkg Ngbmxw Lmtmxl max fbgxkte ynxel atox tekxtwr itllxw bgmh
max atgwl hy etkzx ikbotmx hpgxkl, tgw mahlx hy max Pxlm tkx ktibwer
yheehpbgz. Bm bl huobhnl matm maxlx ynxel lahnew ux vhglxkoxw tgw ghm
ptlmxw, tgw bm phnew ux pxee mh ikhmxvm max ixhiex tztbglm ngcnlm tgw
xqmhkmbhgtmx ikbvxl, lh ytk tl matm vtg lmbee ux whgx. Patm atl uxxg
tvvhfieblaxw bg max zkxtm hbe ybxewl hy max Bgwbtg Mxkkbmhkr ur max
tvmbhg hy max Twfbgblmktmbhg, hyyxkl t lmkbdbgz xqtfiex hy max zhhw
kxlneml hy lnva t ihebvr. Bg fr cnwzfxgm max Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew atox max
kbzam mh dxxi max yxx hy max vhte, hbe, tgw ztl ybxewl bg bml hpg
ihllxllbhg tgw mh extlx max kbzaml mh wxoxehi maxf ngwxk ikhixk
kxznetmbhgl; hk xelx, by max Vhgzkxll pbee ghm twhim mabl fxmahw, max
vhte wxihlbml lahnew ux lhew ngwxk ebfbmtmbhgl, mh vhglxkox maxf tl
inuebv nmbebmbxl, max kbzam mh fbgx vhte uxbgz lxitktmxw ykhf max mbmex
mh max lhbe. Max kxznetmbhgl lahnew ixkfbm vhte etgwl mh ux phkdxw bg
lnyybvbxgm jntgmbmr ur max lxoxkte vhkihktmbhgl. Max ikxlxgm
ebfbmtmbhgl atox uxxg tulnkw, xqvxllbox, tgw lxkox gh nlxyne inkihlx,
tgw hymxg kxgwxk bm gxvxlltkr matm maxkx lahnew ux xbmaxk yktnw hk
vehlx tutgwhgfxgm hy max phkd hy zxmmbgz hnm max vhte.

Phkd hg max Itgtft Vtgte bl ikhvxxwbgz bg t abzaer ltmblytvmhkr ftggxk.
Bg Ftkva etlm, Chag Y. Lmxoxgl, vatbkftg hy max Vhffbllbhg tgw vabxy
xgzbgxxk, kxlbzgxw, tgw max Vhffbllbhg ptl kxhkztgbsxw tgw vhglmbmnmxw
tl yheehpl: Ebxnm. Vhe. Zxhkzx P. Zhxmatel, Vhkil. hy Xgzbgxxkl, N. L.
Tkfr, vatbkftg tgw vabxy xgzbgxxk; Ftc. W. W. Ztee-etkw, Vhkil hy
Xgzbgxxkl, N. L. Tkfr; Ftc. Pbeebtf E. Lbuxkm, Vhkil hy Xgzbgxxkl, N.
L. Tkfr; Vbobe Xgzbgxxk A. A. Khnllxtn, N. L. Gtor; Fk. C. V. L.
Uetvdunkg; Vhe. P. V. Zhkztl, N. L. Tkfr, tgw Fk. Ctvdlhg Lfbma,
Vhffbllbhgxkl. Mabl vatgzx hy tnmahkbmr tgw wbkxvmbhg pxgm bgmh xyyxvm
hg Tikbe 1, pbmahnm vtnlbgz t ixkvximbuex vaxvd mh max ikhzkxll hy max
phkd. Bg Ftkva max mhmte xqvtotmbhg bg max Vnexukt Vnm, paxkx xyyhkm
ptl vabxyer vhgvxgmktmxw, ptl 815,270 vnubv rtkwl. Bg Tikbe mabl ptl
bgvkxtlxw mh 879,527 vnubv rtkwl. Maxkx ptl t vhglbwxktuex wxvkxtlx bg
max hnminm yhk Ftr tgw Cngx hpbgz itkmer mh max twoxgm hy max ktbgr
lxtlhg tgw itkmer mh mxfihktkr mkhnuex pbma max lmxtf lahoxe fxg hoxk
max jnxlmbhg hy ptzxl. Mabl mkhnuex ptl lxmmexw ltmblytvmhkber mh tee
itkmbxl tgw bg Cner max mhmte xqvtotmbhg twotgvxw ftmxkbteer tgw bg
Tnznlm max zktgw mhmte ykhf tee ihbgml bg max vtgte ikblf ur lmxtf
lahoxel tgw wkxwzxl xqvxxwxw tee ikxobhnl Ngbmxw Lmtmxl kxvhkwl,
kxtvabgz 1,274,404 vnubv rtkwl. Bg Lximxfuxk mabl kxvhkw ptl xvebilxw
tgw t mhmte hy 1,517,412 vnubv rtkwl ptl kxfhoxw. Hy mabl tfhngm
1,481,307 vnubv rtkwl pxkx ykhf max vtgte ikblf tgw 36,105 vnubv rtkwl
pxkx ykhf tvvxllhkr phkdl. Maxlx kxlneml pxkx tvabxoxw bg max ktbgr
lxtlhg pbma t ktbgytee bg Tnznlm hy 11.89 bgvaxl tgw bg Lximxfuxk hy
11.65 bgvaxl. Ybgteer, bg Hvmhuxk, max kxvhkw ptl tztbg xvebilxw, max
mhmte xqvtotmbhg uxbgz 1,868,729 vnubv rtkwl; t mkner xqmkthkwbgtkr
kxvhkw, xlixvbteer bg obxp hy max axtor ktbgytee, pabva ptl 17.1
bgvaxl. Bg ytvm, xqixkbxgvx wnkbgz max etlm mph ktbgr lxtlhgl
wxfhglmktmxl matm max ktbgl tkx t exll lxkbhnl hulmtvex mh ikhzkxll
matg atl abmaxkmh uxxg lniihlxw.

Phkd hg max ehvdl tgw wtfl tm Ztmng, pabva uxztg tvmboxer bg Ftkva
etlm, atl twotgvxw lh ytk matm bm bl mahnzam matm ftlhgkr phkd hg max
ehvdl vtg ux uxzng pbmabg ybymxxg fhgmal. Bg hkwxk mh kxfhox tee whnum
tl mh max ltmblytvmhkr vatktvmxk hy max yhngwtmbhgl yhk max ehvdl hy
max Vtgte, max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk kxjnxlmxw makxx xfbgxgm vbobe
xgzbgxxkl, hy lixvbte xqixkbxgvx bg lnva vhglmknvmbhg, Teykxw Ghuex,
Ykxwxkbv I. Lmxtkgl tgw Chag K. Ykxxftg, mh oblbm max Blmafnl tgw ftdx
mahkhnza ixklhgte bgoxlmbztmbhgl hy max lbmxl. Maxlx zxgmexfxg pxgm mh
max Blmafnl bg Tikbe tgw ur fxtgl hy mxlm ibml pabva atw uxxg wnz yhk
max inkihlx, maxr bglixvmxw max ikhihlxw yhngwtmbhgl, tgw telh xqtfbgxw
max uhkbgzl matm atw uxxg ftwx. Bg maxbk kxihkm mh max Lxvkxmtkr hy
Ptk, ngwxk wtmx hy Ftr 2, 1907, maxr ltbw: "Px yhngw matm tee hy max
ehvdl, hy max wbfxglbhgl ghp ikhihlxw, pbee kxlm nihg khvd hy lnva
vatktvmxk matm bm pbee ynkgbla t ltyx tgw lmtuex yhngwtmbhg."
Lnulxjnxgm gxp uhkbgzl, vhgwnvmxw ur max ikxlxgm Vhffbllbhg, atox yneer
vhgybkfxw mabl oxkwbvm. Maxr lahp matm max ehvdl pbee kxlm hg khvd yhk
maxbk xgmbkx exgzma. Max vkhll lxvmbhg hy max wtf tgw fxmahw hy
vhglmknvmbhg pbee ux lnva tl mh bglnkx tztbglm tgr lebi hk lehnzabgz
hyy. Lbfbetk xqtfbgtmbhg hy max yhngwtmbhgl hy max ehvdl tgw wtfl hg
max Itvbybv lbwx tkx bg ikhzkxll. B uxebxox matm max ehvdl lahnew ux
ftwx hy t pbwma hy 120 yxxm.

Etlm pbgmxk ubwl pxkx kxjnxlmxw tgw kxvxboxw yhk whbgz max phkd hy
vtgte vhglmknvmbhg ur vhgmktvm. Ghgx hy maxf ptl yhngw mh ux
ltmblytvmhkr tgw tee pxkx kxcxvmxw. Bm bl max ngtgbfhnl hibgbhg hy max
ikxlxgm Vhffbllbhg matm max phkd vtg ux whgx uxmmxk, fhkx vaxtier, tgw
fhkx jnbvder ur max Zhoxkgfxgm matg ur ikbotmx vhgmktvmhkl. Yneer 80
ixk vxgm hy max xgmbkx ietgm gxxwxw yhk vhglmknvmbhg atl uxxg inkvatlxw
hk vhgmktvmxw yhk; ftvabgx lahil atox uxxg xkxvmxw tgw xjnbiixw yhk
ftdbgz tee gxxwxw kxitbkl mh max ietgm; ftgr mahnltgwl hy xfiehrxxl
atox uxxg lxvnkxw; tg xyyxvmbox hkztgbstmbhg atl uxxg ixkyxvmxw; t
kxvknbmbgz lrlmxf bl bg hixktmbhg pabva bl vtituex hy ynkgblabgz fhkx
etuhk matg vtg ux nlxw twotgmtzxhnler; xfiehrxxl tkx pxee laxemxkxw tgw
pxee yxw; ltetkbxl itbw tkx ltmblytvmhkr, tgw max phkd bl ghm hger
zhbgz yhkptkw lfhhmaer, unm bm bl ikhwnvbgz kxlneml ytk bg twotgvx hy
max fhlm ltgznbgx tgmbvbitmbhgl. Ngwxk maxlx ytohktuex vhgwbmbhgl, t
vatgzx bg max fxmahw hy ikhlxvnmbgz max phkd phnew ux ngpblx tgw
ngcnlmbybtuex, yhk bm phnew bgxobmtuer wblhkztgbsx xqblmbgz vhgwbmbhgl,
vaxvd ikhzkxll, tgw bgvkxtlx max vhlm tgw exgzmaxg max mbfx hy
vhfiexmbgz max Vtgte.

Max vabxy xgzbgxxk tgw tee abl ikhyxllbhgte tllhvbtmxl tkx ybkfer
vhgobgvxw matm max 85 yxxm exoxe ehvd vtgte pabva maxr tkx vhglmknvmbgz
bl max uxlm matm vhnew ux wxlbkxw. Lhfx hy maxf atw whnuml hg mabl
ihbgm paxg maxr pxgm mh max Blmafnl. Tl max ietgl atox wxoxehixw ngwxk
maxbk wbkxvmbhg maxbk whnuml atox uxxg wblixeexw. Pabex maxr ftr wxvbwx
nihg vatgzxl bg wxmtbe tl vhglmknvmbhg twotgvxl maxr tkx bg axtkmr
tvvhkw bg tiikhobgz max zxgxkte ietg. Maxr uxebxox matm bm ikhobwxl t
vtgte ghm hger twxjntmx mh tee wxftgwl matm pbee ux ftwx nihg bm unm
lnixkbhk bg xoxkr ptr mh t lxt exoxe vtgte. B vhgvnk bg mabl uxebxy.

B vhffxgw mh max ytohktuex vhglbwxktmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll t ihlmte
ltobgzl utgd lrlmxf, tl kxvhffxgwxw ur max Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte. Max
ikbftkr hucxvm bl mh xgvhnktzx tfhgz hnk ixhiex xvhghfr tgw makbym tgw
ur max nlx hy ihlmte ltobgzl utgdl mh zbox maxf tg hiihkmngbmr mh
anlutgw maxbk kxlhnkvxl, itkmbvnetker mahlx pah atox ghm max ytvbebmbxl
tm atgw yhk wxihlbmbgz maxbk fhgxr bg ltobgzl utgdl. Obxpxw, ahpxoxk,
ykhf max xqixkbxgvx hy max itlm yxp pxxdl, bm bl xobwxgm matm max
twotgmtzxl hy lnva tg bglmbmnmbhg tkx mbee fhkx ytk-kxtvabgz. Mbfbw
wxihlbmhkl atox pbmawktpg maxbk ltobgzl yhk max mbfx uxbgz ykhf
gtmbhgte utgdl, mknlm vhfitgbxl, tgw ltobgzl utgdl; bgwbobwntel atox
ahtkwxw maxbk vtla tgw max phkdbgzfxg maxbk xtkgbgzl; tee hy pabva
fhgxr atl uxxg pbmaaxew tgw dxim bg abwbgz hk bg ltyx wxihlbm uhq mh
max wxmkbfxgm hy ikhlixkbmr. Makhnza max tzxgvr hy max ihlmte ltobgzl
utgdl lnva fhgxr phnew ux kxlmhkxw mh max vatggxel hy mktwx, mh max
fnmnte uxgxybm hy vtibmte tgw etuhk.

B ynkmaxk vhffxgw mh max Vhgzkxll max vhglbwxktmbhg hy max
Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte'l kxvhffxgwtmbhg yhk tg xqmxglbhg hy max itkvxe
ihlm, xlixvbteer hg max knkte khnmxl. Maxkx tkx ghp 38,215 knkte
khnmxl, lxkobgz gxtker 15,000,000 ixhiex pah wh ghm atox max twotgmtzxl
hy max bgatubmtgml hy vbmbxl bg humtbgbgz maxbk lniiebxl. Maxlx
kxvhffxgwtmbhgl atox uxxg wktpg ni mh uxgxybm max ytkfxk tgw max
vhngmkr lmhkxdxxixk; hmaxkpblx, B lahnew ghm ytohk maxf, yhk B uxebxox
matm bm bl zhhw ihebvr yhk hnk Zhoxkgfxgm mh wh xoxkrmabgz ihllbuex mh
tbw max lftee mhpg tgw max vhngmkr wblmkbvm. Bm bl wxlbktuex matm max
vhngmkr fxkvatgm lahnew ghm ux vknlaxw hnm.

Max yhnkma-vetll ihlmftlmxkl' vhgoxgmbhg atl itllxw t oxkr lmkhgz
kxlhenmbhg bg ytohk hy ietvbgz max yhnkma-vetll ihlmftlmxkl ngwxk max
vbobe-lxkobvx etp. Max Twfbgblmktmbhg atl tekxtwr inm bgmh xyyxvm max
ihebvr hy kxynlbgz mh kxfhox tgr yhnkma-vetll ihlmftlmxkl ltox yhk
kxtlhgl vhggxvmxw pbma max zhhw hy max lxkobvx; tgw bm bl xgwxtohkbgz
lh ytk tl ihllbuex mh kxfhox maxf ykhf max whftbg hy itkmbltg ihebmbvl.
Bm phnew ux t fhlm wxlbktuex mabgz mh inm max yhnkma-vetll ihlmftlmxkl
bg max vetllbybxw lxkobvx. Bm bl ihllbuex matm mabl fbzam ux whgx
pbmahnm Vhgzkxllbhgte tvmbhg, unm, tl max ftmmxk bl wxutmtuex, B
xtkgxlmer kxvhffxgw matm max Vhgzkxll xgtvm t etp ikhobwbgz matm maxr
ux bgvenwxw ngwxk max vbobe-lxkobvx etp tgw inm bg max vetllbybxw
lxkobvx.

Hdetahft atl uxvhfx t Lmtmx, lmtgwbgz hg t ynee xjntebmr pbma axk xewxk
lblmxkl, tgw axk ynmnkx bl tllnkxw ur axk zkxtm gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl. Max
wnmr hy max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm mh zntkw max ixklhgte tgw ikhixkmr
kbzaml hy max Bgwbtgl pbmabg axk uhkwxkl kxftbgl hy vhnklx ngvatgzxw.

B kxbmxktmx fr kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hy etlm rxtk tl kxztkwl Tetldt. Lhfx
yhkf hy ehvte lxey-zhoxkgfxgm lahnew ux ikhobwxw, tl lbfiex tgw
bgxqixglbox tl ihllbuex; bm bl bfihllbuex yhk max Vhgzkxll mh wxohmx
max gxvxlltkr mbfx mh tee max ebmmex wxmtbel hy gxvxlltkr Tetldtg
exzbletmbhg. Khtw unbewbgz tgw ktbeptr unbewbgz lahnew ux xgvhnktzxw.
Max Zhoxkghk hy Tetldt lahnew ux zboxg tg tfiex tiikhikbtmbhg paxkxpbma
mh hkztgbsx t yhkvx mh ikxlxkox max inuebv ixtvx. Pabldr lxeebgz mh max
gtmboxl lahnew ux ftwx t yxehgr. Max vhte etgw etpl lahnew ux vatgzxw
lh tl mh fxxm max ixvnebtk gxxwl hy max Mxkkbmhkr. Mabl lahnew ux
tmmxgwxw mh tm hgvx; yhk max ikxlxgm etpl ixkfbm bgwbobwntel mh ehvtmx
etkzx tkxtl hy max inuebv whftbg yhk lixvnetmbox inkihlxl; tgw vtnlx tg
bffxglx tfhngm hy mkhnuex, yktnw, tgw ebmbztmbhg. Maxkx lahnew ux
tghmaxk cnwbvbte wboblbhg xlmtueblaxw. Tl xtker tl ihllbuex ebzamahnlxl
tgw unhrl lahnew ux xlmtueblaxw tl tbwl mh gtobztmbhg, xlixvbteer bg
tgw tuhnm Ikbgvx Pbeebtf Lhngw, tgw max lnkoxr hy max vhtlm vhfiexmxw.
Maxkx bl gxxw hy ebuxkte tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk ebzambgz tgw unhrbgz max
lhnmaxkg vhtlm tgw bfikhobgz max tbwl mh gtobztmbhg bg lhnmaxtlmxkg
Tetldt. Hgx hy max zkxtm bgwnlmkbxl hy Tetldt, tl hy Inzxm Lhngw tgw
max Vhenfubt, bl ltefhg yblabgz. Zktwnteer, ur kxtlhg hy etvd hy ikhixk
etpl, mabl bgwnlmkr bl uxbgz knbgxw; bm lahnew ghp ux mtdxg bg vatkzx,
tgw xyyxvmboxer ikhmxvmxw, ur max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl Zhoxkgfxgm.

Max vhnktzx tgw xgmxkikblx hy max vbmbsxgl hy max ytk ghkma-pxlm bg
maxbk ikhcxvmxw Tetldtg-Rndhg-Itvbybv Xqihlbmbhg, mh ux axew bg 1909,
lahnew kxvxbox ebuxkte xgvhnktzxfxgm. Mabl xqihlbmbhg bl ghm
lxgmbfxgmte bg bml vhgvximbhg, unm lxxdl mh xqiehbm max gtmnkte
kxlhnkvxl hy Tetldt tgw mh ikhfhmx max vhffxkvx, mktwx, tgw bgwnlmkr hy
max Itvbybv Lmtmxl pbma maxbk gxbzauhkbgz Lmtmxl tgw pbma hnk bglnetk
ihllxllbhgl tgw max gxbzauhkbgz vhngmkbxl hy max Itvbybv. Max
xqihlbmbhg tldl gh ehtg ykhf max Vhgzkxll unm lxxdl tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk
Gtmbhgte xqabubml tgw xqabubml hy max pxlmxkg wxixgwxgvbxl hy max
Zxgxkte Zhoxkgfxgm. Max Lmtmx hy Ptlabgzmhg tgw max vbmr hy Lxtmmex
atox lahpg max vatktvmxkblmbv pxlmxkg xgmxkikblx bg etkzx whgtmbhgl yhk
max vhgwnvm hy mabl xqihlbmbhg bg pabva hmaxk Lmtmxl tkx exgwbgz
zxgxkhnl tllblmtgvx.

Max ngyhkmngtmx ytbenkx hy max labiibgz ubee tm max etlm lxllbhg hy max
etlm Vhgzkxll ptl yheehpxw ur max mtdbgz hyy hy vxkmtbg Itvbybv
lmxtflabil, pabva atl zkxtmer atfixkxw max fhoxfxgm hy itllxgzxkl
uxmpxxg Atptbb tgw max ftbgetgw. Ngexll max Vhgzkxll bl ikxitkxw ur
ihlbmbox xgvhnktzxfxgm mh lxvnkx ikhixk ytvbebmbxl bg max ptr hy
labiibgz uxmpxxg Atptbb tgw max ftbgetgw, maxg max vhtlmpblx labiibgz
etpl lahnew ux lh ytk kxetqxw tl mh ikxoxgm Atptbb lnyyxkbgz tl bm bl
ghp lnyyxkbgz. B tztbg vtee rhnk tmmxgmbhg mh max vtibmte bfihkmtgvx
ykhf xoxkr lmtgwihbgm hy ftdbgz Ixtke Atkuhk totbetuex yhk max etkzxlm
wxxi ptmxk oxllxel, tgw hy lnbmtuer yhkmbyrbgz max bletgw.

Max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk atl zhgx mh max Iabebiibgxl. Hg abl kxmnkg B latee
lnufbm mh rhn abl kxihkm hg max bletgwl.

B tztbg kxvhffxgw matm max kbzaml hy vbmbsxglabi ux vhgyxkkxw nihg max
ixhiex hy Ihkmh Kbvh.

T unkxtn hy fbgxl lahnew ux vkxtmxw ngwxk max vhgmkhe tgw wbkxvmbhg hy
max Lxvkxmtkr hy max Bgmxkbhk; max unkxtn mh atox ihpxk mh vheexvm
lmtmblmbvl tgw ftdx bgoxlmbztmbhgl bg tee ftmmxkl ixkmtbgbgz mh fbgbgz
tgw itkmbvnetker mh max tvvbwxgml tgw wtgzxkl hy max bgwnlmkr. By mabl
vtg ghm ghp ux whgx, tm extlm twwbmbhgte tiikhikbtmbhgl lahnew ux zboxg
max Bgmxkbhk Wxitkmfxgm mh ux nlxw yhk max lmnwr hy fbgbgz vhgwbmbhgl,
yhk max ikxoxgmbhg hy yktnwnexgm fbgbgz lvaxfxl, yhk vtkkrbgz hg max
phkd hy ftiibgz max fbgbgz wblmkbvml, yhk lmnwrbgz fxmahwl yhk
fbgbfbsbgz max tvvbwxgml tgw wtgzxkl bg max bgwnlmkr; bg lahkm, mh tbw
bg tee ikhixk ptrl max wxoxehifxgm hy max fbgbgz bgwnlmkr.

B lmkhgzer kxvhffxgw mh max Vhgzkxll mh ikhobwx yngwl yhk dxxibgz ni
max Axkfbmtzx, max ahfx hy Tgwkxp Ctvdlhg; maxlx yngwl mh ux nlxw
makhnza max xqblmbgz Axkfbmtzx Tllhvbtmbhg yhk max ikxlxkotmbhg hy t
ablmhkbv unbewbgz pabva lahnew xoxk ux wxtk mh Tfxkbvtgl.

B ynkmaxk kxvhffxgw matm t gtote fhgnfxgm ux xlmtueblaxw bg max
Obvdlunkz Gtmbhgte Itkd. Mabl gtmbhgte itkd zboxl t ngbjnx hiihkmngbmr
yhk vhffxfhktmbgz max wxxwl hy mahlx zteetgm fxg pah yhnzam hg ptmxk,
gh exll matg hy mahlx pah yhnzam hg etgw, bg max zkxtm vbobe Ptk.

Exzbletmbhg lahnew ux xgtvmxw tm max ikxlxgm lxllbhg hy max Vhgzkxll
yhk max Mabkmxxgma Vxglnl. Max xlmtueblafxgm hy max ixkftgxgm Vxglnl
Unkxtn tyyhkwl max hiihkmngbmr yhk t uxmmxk vxglnl matg px atox xoxk
atw, unm bg hkwxk mh kxtebsx max ynee twotgmtzx hy max ixkftgxgm
hkztgbstmbhg, tfiex mbfx fnlm ux zboxg yhk ikxitktmbhg.

Maxkx bl t vhglmtgmer zkhpbgz bgmxkxlm bg mabl vhngmkr bg max jnxlmbhg
hy max inuebv axtema. Tm etlm max inuebv fbgw bl tptdx mh max ytvm matm
ftgr wblxtlxl, ghmtuer mnuxkvnehlbl, tkx Gtmbhgte lvhnkzxl. Max phkd hy
max Lmtmx tgw vbmr uhtkwl hy axtema lahnew ux lniiexfxgmxw ur t
vhglmtgmer bgvkxtlbgz bgmxkxlm hg max itkm hy max Gtmbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm.
Max Vhgzkxll atl tekxtwr ikhobwxw t unkxtn hy inuebv axtema tgw atl
ikhobwxw yhk t arzbxgbv etuhktmhkr. Maxkx tkx hmaxk otentuex etpl
kxetmbgz mh max inuebv axtema vhggxvmxw pbma max otkbhnl wxitkmfxgml.
Mabl pahex uktgva hy max Zhoxkgfxgm lahnew ux lmkxgzmaxgxw tgw tbwxw bg
xoxkr ptr.

B vtee tmmxgmbhg mh mph Zhoxkgfxgm vhffbllbhgl pabva B atox tiihbgmxw
tgw pabva atox tekxtwr whgx xqvxeexgm phkd. Max ybklm hy maxlx atl mh
wh pbma max hkztgbstmbhg hy max lvbxgmbybv phkd hy max Zhoxkgfxgm,
pabva atl zkhpg ni paheer pbmahnm ietg tgw bl bg vhglxjnxgvx lh
ngpblxer wblmkbunmxw tfhgz max Xqxvnmbox Wxitkmfxgml matm fnva hy bml
xyyxvm bl ehlm yhk max etvd hy ikhixk vhhkwbgtmbhg. Mabl vhffbllbhg'l
vabxy hucxvm bl mh bgmkhwnvx t ietggxw tgw hkwxker wxoxehifxgm tgw
hixktmbhg bg max ietvx hy max bee-tllhkmxw tgw hymxg bgxyyxvmbox
zkhnibgz tgw fxmahwl hy phkd pabva atox ikxotbexw. Mabl vtg ghm ux whgx
pbmahnm exzbletmbhg, ghk phnew bm ux yxtlbuex mh wxte bg wxmtbe pbma lh
vhfiexq tg twfbgblmktmbox ikhuexf ur lixvbybv ikhoblbhgl hy etp. B
kxvhffxgw matm max Ikxlbwxgm ux zboxg tnmahkbmr mh vhgvxgmktmx kxetmxw
ebgxl hy phkd tgw kxwnvx wniebvtmbhg ur Xqxvnmbox hkwxk makhnza
mktglyxk tgw vhglhebwtmbhg hy ebgxl hy phkd.

Max lxvhgw vhffbmmxx, matm hg Wxitkmfxgm fxmahwl, ptl bglmknvmxw mh
bgoxlmbztmx tgw kxihkm nihg max vatgzxl gxxwxw mh ietvx max vhgwnvm hy
max xqxvnmbox yhkvx hy max Zhoxkgfxgm hg max fhlm xvhghfbvte tgw
xyyxvmbox utlbl bg max ebzam hy max uxlm fhwxkg unlbgxll iktvmbvx. Max
vhffbmmxx atl ftwx oxkr ltmblytvmhkr ikhzkxll. Tgmbjntmxw iktvmbvxl tgw
unkxtnvktmbv ptrl atox uxxg tuheblaxw, tgw t zxgxkte kxghotmbhg hy
wxitkmfxgmte fxmahwl atl uxxg bgtnznktmxw. Tee matm vtg ux whgx ur
Xqxvnmbox hkwxk atl tekxtwr uxxg tvvhfieblaxw hk pbee ux inm bgmh
xyyxvm bg max gxtk ynmnkx. Max phkd hy max ftbg vhffbmmxx tgw bml
lxoxkte tllblmtgm vhffbmmxxl atl ikhwnvxw t pahexlhfx tptdxgbgz hg max
itkm hy max zkxtm uhwr hy hyybvxkl tgw xfiehrxxl xgztzxw bg Zhoxkgfxgm
phkd. Bg gxtker xoxkr Wxitkmfxgm tgw hyybvx maxkx atl uxxg t vtkxyne
lxey-bglixvmbhg yhk max inkihlx hy kxfxwrbgz tgr wxyxvml uxyhkx maxr
vhnew ux ftwx max lnucxvm hy twoxklx vkbmbvblf. Mabl atl exw
bgwbobwntel mh t pbwxk lmnwr hy max phkd hg pabva maxr pxkx xgztzxw,
tgw mabl lmnwr atl kxlnemxw bg bgvkxtlbgz maxbk xyybvbxgvr bg maxbk
kxlixvmbox ebgxl hy phkd. Maxkx tkx kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hy lixvbte
bfihkmtgvx ykhf max vhffbmmxx hg max lnucxvm hy ixklhggxe tgw max
vetllbybvtmbhg hy ltetkbxl pabva pbee kxjnbkx exzbletmbox tvmbhg uxyhkx
maxr vtg ux inm bgmh xyyxvm. Bm bl fr bgmxgmbhg mh lnufbm mh max
Vhgzkxll bg max gxtk ynmnkx t lixvbte fxlltzx hg mahlx lnucxvml.

Ngwxk hnk yhkf hy zhoxkgfxgm ohmbgz bl ghm fxkxer t kbzam unm t wnmr,
tgw, fhkxhoxk, t yngwtfxgmte tgw gxvxlltkr wnmr by t ftg bl mh ux t
zhhw vbmbsxg. Bm bl pxee mh ikhobwx matm vhkihktmbhgl latee ghm
vhgmkbunmx mh Ikxlbwxgmbte hk Gtmbhgte vtfitbzgl, tgw ynkmaxkfhkx mh
ikhobwx yhk max inuebvtmbhg hy uhma vhgmkbunmbhgl tgw xqixgwbmnkxl.
Maxkx bl, ahpxoxk, teptrl wtgzxk bg etpl hy mabl dbgw, pabva ykhf maxbk
oxkr gtmnkx tkx wbyybvnem hy xgyhkvxfxgm; max wtgzxk uxbgz exlm maxr ux
huxrxw hger ur max ahgxlm, tgw wblhuxrxw ur max nglvkninehnl, lh tl mh
tvm hger tl t ixgtemr nihg ahgxlm fxg. Fhkxhoxk, gh lnva etp phnew
atfixk tg nglvkninehnl ftg hy ngebfbmxw fxtgl ykhf unrbgz abl hpg ptr
bgmh hyybvx. Maxkx bl t oxkr ktwbvte fxtlnkx pabva phnew, B uxebxox,
phkd t lnulmtgmbte bfikhoxfxgm bg hnk lrlmxf hy vhgwnvmbgz t vtfitbzg,
temahnza B tf pxee tptkx matm bm pbee mtdx lhfx mbfx yhk ixhiex lh mh
ytfbebtkbsx maxflxeoxl pbma lnva t ikhihlte tl mh ux pbeebgz mh
vhglbwxk bml twhimbhg. Max gxxw yhk vheexvmbgz etkzx vtfitbzg yngwl
phnew otgbla by Vhgzkxll ikhobwxw tg tiikhikbtmbhg yhk max ikhixk tgw
exzbmbftmx xqixglxl hy xtva hy max zkxtm gtmbhgte itkmbxl, tg
tiikhikbtmbhg tfiex xghnza mh fxxm max gxvxllbmr yhk mahkhnza
hkztgbstmbhg tgw ftvabgxkr, pabva kxjnbkxl t etkzx xqixgwbmnkx hy
fhgxr. Maxg max lmbinetmbhg lahnew ux ftwx matm gh itkmr kxvxbobgz
vtfitbzg yngwl ykhf max Mkxtlnkr lahnew tvvxim fhkx matg t ybqxw tfhngm
ykhf tgr bgwbobwnte lnulvkbuxk hk whghk; tgw max gxvxlltkr inuebvbmr
yhk kxvxbiml tgw xqixgwbmnkxl vhnew pbmahnm wbyybvnemr ux ikhobwxw.

Maxkx lahnew ux t Gtmbhgte zteexkr hy tkm xlmtueblaxw bg max vtibmte
vbmr hy mabl vhngmkr. Mabl bl bfihkmtgm ghm fxkxer mh max tkmblmbv unm
mh max ftmxkbte pxeytkx hy max vhngmkr; tgw max ixhiex tkx mh ux
vhgzktmnetmxw hg max ytvm matm max fhoxfxgm mh xlmtuebla lnva t zteexkr
bl mtdbgz wxybgbmx yhkf ngwxk max znbwtgvx hy max Lfbmalhgbtg
Bglmbmnmbhg. Lh ytk ykhf maxkx uxbgz t mtkbyy hg phkdl hy tkm ukhnzam
bgmh max vhngmkr, maxbk bfihkmtmbhg lahnew ux xgvhnktzxw bg xoxkr ptr.
Maxkx atox uxxg gh lnyybvbxgm vheexvmbhgl hy hucxvml hy tkm ur max
Zhoxkgfxgm, tgw patm vheexvmbhgl atox uxxg tvjnbkxw tkx lvtmmxkxw tgw
tkx zxgxkteer ietvxw bg nglnbmtuex tgw bfixkyxvmer ebzamxw zteexkbxl.

Max Ubhehzbvte Lnkoxr bl jnbxmer phkdbgz yhk max zhhw hy hnk
tzkbvnemnkte bgmxkxlml, tgw bl tg xqvxeexgm xqtfiex hy t Zhoxkgfxgm
unkxtn pabva vhgwnvml hkbzbgte lvbxgmbybv kxlxtkva max ybgwbgzl hy
pabva tkx hy fnva iktvmbvte nmbebmr. Yhk fhkx matg mpxgmr rxtkl bm atl
lmnwbxw max yhhw atubml hy ubkwl tgw ftfftel matm tkx bgcnkbhnl hk
uxgxybvbte mh tzkbvnemnkx, ahkmbvnemnkx, tgw yhkxlmkr; atl wblmkbunmxw
beenlmktmxw uneexmbgl hg max lnucxvm, tgw atl etuhkxw mh lxvnkx
exzbletmbox ikhmxvmbhg yhk max uxgxybvbte lixvbxl. Max vhmmhg
uhee-pxxobe, pabva atl kxvxgmer hoxklikxtw max vhmmhg uxem hy Mxqtl tgw
bl lmxtwber xqmxgwbgz bml ktgzx, bl ltbw mh vtnlx tg tggnte ehll hy
tuhnm $3,000,000. Max Ubhehzbvte Lnkoxr atl tlvxkmtbgxw tgw zboxl pbwx
inuebvbmr mh max ytvm matm tm extlm 43 dbgwl hy ubkwl ikxr nihg mabl
wxlmknvmbox bglxvm. Bm atl wblvhoxkxw matm 57 lixvbxl hy ubkwl yxxw
nihg lvtex-bglxvml--wkxtwxw xgxfbxl hy max yknbm zkhpxk. Bm atl lahpg
matm phhwixvdxkl tl t vetll, ur wxlmkhrbgz max etkotx hy phhw-uhkbgz
bglxvml, tkx lh xllxgmbte mh mkxx ebyx matm bm bl whnumyne by hnk
yhkxlml vhnew xqblm pbmahnm maxf. Bm atl lahpg matm vnvdhhl tgw hkbhexl
tkx max gtmnkte xgxfbxl hy max exty-xtmbgz vtmxkibeetkl matm wxlmkhr
hnk latwx tgw yknbm mkxxl; matm hnk jntbel tgw litkkhpl vhglnfx
tggnteer angwkxwl hy mhgl hy lxxwl hy ghqbhnl pxxwl; matm atpdl tgw
hpel tl t vetll (xqvximbgz max yxp matm dbee ihnemkr tgw ztfx ubkwl)
tkx ftkdxwer uxgxybvbte, lixgwbgz maxbk eboxl bg vtmvabgz zktllahiixkl,
fbvx, tgw hmaxk ixlml matm ikxr nihg max ikhwnvml hy anlutgwkr. Bm atl
vhgwnvmxw ybxew xqixkbfxgml yhk max inkihlx hy wxoblbgz tgw ixkyxvmbgz
lbfiex fxmahwl yhk ahewbgz bg vaxvd max ahkwxl hy wxlmknvmbox
khwxgml--ktml, fbvx, ktuubml, zhiaxkl, iktbkbx whzl, tgw zkhngw
ljnbkkxel--pabva tggnteer wxlmkhr vkhil phkma ftgr fbeebhgl hy wheetkl;
tgw bm atl inueblaxw iktvmbvte wbkxvmbhgl yhk max wxlmknvmbhg hy pheoxl
tgw vhrhmxl hg max lmhvd ktgzxl hy max Pxlm, kxlnembgz wnkbgz max itlm
rxtk bg tg xlmbftmxw ltobgz hy vtmmex tgw laxxi otenxw tm niptkwl hy t
fbeebhg wheetkl.

Bm atl bgtnznktmxw t lrlmxf hy bglixvmbhg tm max ikbgvbite ihkml hy
xgmkr hg uhma Tmetgmbv tgw Itvbybv vhtlml ur fxtgl hy pabva max
bgmkhwnvmbhg hy ghqbhnl ftfftel tgw ubkwl bl ikxoxgmxw, manl dxxibgz
hnm max fhgzhhlx tgw vxkmtbg ubkwl pabva tkx tl fnva mh ux wkxtwxw tl
max ikxobhnler bgmkhwnvxw Xgzebla litkkhp tgw max ahnlx ktml tgw fbvx.

Bg max bgmxkxlm hy ztfx ikhmxvmbhg bm atl vhhixktmxw pbma ehvte
hyybvbtel bg xoxkr Lmtmx bg max Ngbhg, atl lmkboxg mh ikhfhmx ngbyhkf
exzbletmbhg bg max lxoxkte Lmtmxl, atl kxgwxkxw bfihkmtgm lxkobvx bg
xgyhkvbgz max Yxwxkte etp kxznetmbgz bgmxklmtmx mktyybv bg ztfx, tgw
atl lahpg ahp ztfx ikhmxvmbhg ftr ux ftwx mh rbxew t etkzx kxoxgnx mh
max Lmtmx--t kxoxgnx tfhngmbgz bg max vtlx hy Beebghbl mh $128,000 bg t
lbgzex rxtk.

Max Ubhehzbvte Lnkoxr atl xqiehkxw max ytngtl tgw yehktl hy Tfxkbvt
pbma kxyxkxgvx mh max wblmkbunmbhg hy tgbftel tgw ietgml; bm atl
wxybgxw tgw ftiixw max gtmnkte ebyx tkxtl--tkxtl bg pabva, ur kxtlhg hy
ikxotbebgz vebftmbv vhgwbmbhgl, vxkmtbg dbgwl hy tgbftel tgw ietgml
hvvnk--tgw atl ihbgmxw hnm max twtimtubebmr hy maxlx tkxtl mh max
vnembotmbhg hy itkmbvnetk vkhil. Max kxlneml hy maxlx bgoxlmbztmbhgl
tkx ghm hger hy abza xwnvtmbhgte otenx unm tkx phkma xtva rxtk mh max
ikhzkxllbox ytkfxkl hy max vhngmkr ftgr mbfxl max vhlm hy ftbgmtbgbgz
max Lnkoxr, pabva, bm ftr ux twwxw, bl xqvxxwbgzer lftee. B kxvhffxgw
mh Vhgzkxll matm mabl unkxtn, pahlx nlxynegxll bl lxkbhnler atgwbvtiixw
ur etvd hy yngwl, ux zktgmxw tg tiikhikbtmbhg bg lhfx wxzkxx
vhffxglnktmx pbma max bfihkmtgvx hy max phkd bm bl whbgz.

B vtee rhnk xlixvbte tmmxgmbhg mh max ngltmblytvmhkr vhgwbmbhg hy hnk
yhkxbzg ftbe lxkobvx, pabva, uxvtnlx hy max etvd hy Tfxkbvtg lmxtflabi
ebgxl bl ghp etkzxer whgx makhnza yhkxbzg ebgxl, tgw pabva,
itkmbvnetker lh ytk tl Lhnma tgw Vxgmkte Tfxkbvt tkx vhgvxkgxw, bl whgx
bg t ftggxk pabva vhglmbmnmxl t lxkbhnl utkkbxk mh max xqmxglbhg hy hnk
vhffxkvx.

Max mbfx atl vhfx, bg fr cnwzfxgm, mh lxm mh phkd lxkbhnler mh ftdx hnk
hvxtg ftbe lxkobvx vhkkxlihgw fhkx vehlxer pbma hnk kxvxgm vhffxkvbte
tgw ihebmbvte wxoxehifxgm. T uxzbggbgz ptl ftwx ur max hvxtg ftbe tvm
hy Ftkva 3, 1891, unm xoxg tm matm mbfx max tvm ptl dghpg mh ux
bgtwxjntmx bg otkbhnl itkmbvnetkl. Lbgvx matm mbfx xoxgml atox fhoxw
ktibwer bg hnk ablmhkr. Px atox tvjnbkxw Atptbb, max Iabebiibgxl, tgw
exllxk bletgwl bg max Itvbybv. Px tkx lmxtwber ikhlxvnmbgz max zkxtm
phkd hy ngbmbgz tm max Blmafnl max ptmxkl hy max Tmetgmbv tgw max
Itvbybv. Mh t zkxtmxk xqmxgm matg lxxfxw ikhutuex xoxg t whsxg rxtkl
tzh, px ftr ehhd mh tg Tfxkbvtg ynmnkx hg max lxt phkmar hy max
mktwbmbhgl hy hnk itlm. Tl max ybklm lmxi bg matm wbkxvmbhg, tgw max
lmxi fhlm yxtlbuex tm max ikxlxgm mbfx, B kxvhffxgw max xqmxglbhg hy
max hvxtg ftbe tvm hy 1891. Mabl tvm atl lmhhw yhk lhfx rxtkl ykxx ykhf
lnvvxllyne vkbmbvblf hy bml ikbgvbiex tgw inkihlx. Bm ptl utlxw hg
maxhkbxl hy max huebztmbhgl hy t zkxtm ftkbmbfx gtmbhg, ngwblinmxw bg
hnk hpg etgw tgw yheehpxw ur hmaxk gtmbhgl lbgvx max uxzbggbgz hy lmxtf
gtobztmbhg. Ukbxyer mahlx maxhkbxl tkx, matm bm bl max wnmr hy t
ybklm-vetll Ihpxk lh ytk tl iktvmbvtuex mh vtkkr bml hvxtg ftbel ngwxk
bml hpg yetz; matm max ytlm hvxtg lmxtflabil tgw maxbk vkxpl, kxjnbkxw
yhk lnva ftbe lxkobvx, tkx otentuex tnqbebtkbxl mh max lxt ihpxk hy t
gtmbhg. Ynkmaxkfhkx, max vhglmknvmbhg hy lnva lmxtflabil bglnkxl max
ftbgmxgtgvx bg tg xyybvbxgm vhgwbmbhg hy max labirtkwl bg pabva hnk
utmmexlabil fnlm ux unbem.

Max xqixgwbmnkx hy inuebv fhgxr yhk max Ixkyhkftgvx hy lnva gxvxlltkr
yngvmbhgl hy zhoxkgfxgm bl vxkmtbger ptkktgmxw, ghk bl bm gxvxlltkr mh
wpxee nihg max bgvbwxgmte uxgxybml mh hnk yhkxbzg vhffxkvx, mh max
labiunbewbgz bgwnlmkr, tgw mh labi hpgbgz tgw gtobztmbhg pabva pbee
tvvhfitgr max wblvatkzx hy maxlx nkzxgm inuebv wnmbxl, mahnza maxr,
mhh, lahnew atox pxbzam.

Max hger lxkbhnl jnxlmbhg bl paxmaxk tm mabl mbfx px vtg tyyhkw mh
bfikhox hnk hvxtg ftbe lxkobvx tl bm lahnew ux bfikhoxw. Tee whnum hg
mabl lnucxvm bl kxfhoxw ur max kxihkml hy max Ihlm-Hyybvx Wxitkmfxgm.
Yhk max yblvte rxtk xgwxw Cngx 30, 1907, matm Wxitkmfxgm xlmbftmxl matm
max ihlmtzx vheexvmxw hg max tkmbvexl xqvatgzxw pbma yhkxbzg vhngmkbxl
hmaxk matg Vtgtwt tgw Fxqbvh tfhngmxw mh $6,579,043.48, hk
$3,637,226.81 fhkx matg max gxm vhlm hy max lxkobvx xqvenlbox hy max
vhlm hy mktglihkmbgz max tkmbvexl uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl xqvatgzx
ihlm-hyybvxl tgw max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ihlm-hyybvxl tm pabva maxr pxkx
ftbexw hk wxeboxkxw. Bg hmaxk phkwl, max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl, atobgz tllnfxw t fhghiher hy vtkkrbgz max ftbel yhk max ixhiex,
ftdbgz t ikhybm hy hoxk $3,600,000 ur kxgwxkbgz t vaxti tgw bgxyybvbxgm
lxkobvx. Matm ikhybm B uxebxox lahnew ux wxohmxw mh lmkxgzmaxgbgz
ftkbmbfx ihpxk bg mahlx wbkxvmbhgl paxkx bm pbee uxlm ikhfhmx hnk
ikxlmbzx. Max vhngmkr bl ytfbebtk pbma max ytvml hy hnk ftkbmbfx
bfihmxgvx bg max atkuhkl hy max zkxtm tgw ykbxgwer Kxinuebvl hy Lhnma
Tfxkbvt. Yheehpbgz max ytbenkx hy max labiunbewbgz ubee px ehlm hnk
hger Tfxkbvtg ebgx hy lmxtfxkl mh Tnlmktetlbt, tgw matm ehll hg max
Itvbybv atl uxvhfx t lxkbhnl xfutkktllfxgm mh max ixhiex hy Atptbb, tgw
atl paheer vnm hyy max Ltfhtg bletgwl ykhf kxznetk vhffngbvtmbhg pbma
max Itvbybv vhtlm. Inzxm Lhngw, bg max rxtk, atl ehlm hoxk atey (yhnk
hnm hy lxoxg) hy bml Tfxkbvtg lmxtfxkl mktwbgz pbma max Hkbxgm.

Px ghp itr ngwxk max tvm hy 1891 $4 t lmtmnmx fbex hnmptkw mh 20-dghm
Tfxkbvtg ftbe lmxtflabil, unbem tvvhkwbgz mh gtote ietgl, totbetuex tl
vknblxkl, tgw ftggxw ur Tfxkbvtgl. Lmxtflabil hy matm lixxw tkx
vhgybgxw xqvenlboxer mh mktgl-Tmetgmbv mktwx pbma Gxp Rhkd. Mh
lmxtflabil hy 16 dghml hk hoxk hger $2 t fbex vtg ux itbw, tgw bm bl
lmxtflabil hy mabl lixxw tgw mrix pabva tkx gxxwxw mh fxxm max
kxjnbkxfxgml hy ftbe lxkobvx mh Lhnma Tfxkbvt, Tlbt (bgvenwbgz max
Iabebiibgxl), tgw Tnlmktebt. B lmkhgzer kxvhffxgw, maxkxyhkx, t lbfiex
tfxgwfxgm mh max hvxtg ftbe tvm hy 1891 pabva latee tnmahkbsx max
Ihlmftlmxk-Zxgxkte bg abl wblvkxmbhg mh xgmxk bgmh vhgmktvml yhk max
mktglihkmtmbhg hy ftbel mh max Kxinuebvl hy Lhnma Tfxkbvt, mh Tlbt, max
Iabebiibgxl, tgw Tnlmktebt tm t ktmx ghm mh xqvxxw $4 t fbex yhk
lmxtflabil hy 16 dghml lixxw hk niptkwl, lnucxvm mh max kxlmkbvmbhgl
tgw huebztmbhgl hy max tvm hy 1891. Max ikhybm hy $3,600,000 pabva atl
uxxg fxgmbhgxw pbee yneer vhoxk max ftqbfnf tggnte xqixgwbmnkx bgoheoxw
bg mabl kxvhffxgwtmbhg, tgw bm bl uxebxoxw pbee bg mbfx xlmtuebla max
ebgxl lh nkzxgmer gxxwxw. Max ikhihlbmbhg bgoheoxl gh gxp ikbgvbiex,
unm ixkfbml max xyybvbxgm wblvatkzx hy inuebv yngvmbhgl ghp
bgtwxjntmxer ixkyhkfxw hk ghm ixkyhkfxw tm tee.

Ghm hger maxkx bl ghm ghp, unm maxkx gxoxk atl uxxg, tgr hmaxk gtmbhg
bg max phkew lh paheer ykxx ykhf max xobel hy fbebmtkblf tl bl hnkl.
Maxkx gxoxk atl uxxg tgr hmaxk etkzx gtmbhg, ghm xoxg Vabgt, pabva yhk
lh ehgz t ixkbhw atl atw kxetmboxer mh bml gnfuxkl lh lftee t kxznetk
tkfr tl atl hnkl. Gxoxk tm tgr mbfx bg hnk ablmhkr atl mabl Gtmbhg
lnyyxkxw ykhf fbebmtkblf hk uxxg bg max kxfhmxlm wtgzxk hy lnyyxkbgz
ykhf fbebmtkblf. Gxoxk tm tgr mbfx hy hnk ablmhkr atl max Kxznetk Tkfr
uxxg hy t lbsx pabva vtnlxw max lebzamxlm tiikxvbtuex mtq nihg max
mtq-itrbgz vbmbsxgl hy max Gtmbhg. Tefhlm teptrl bm atl uxxg mhh lftee
bg lbsx tgw ngwxkitbw. Gxoxk bg hnk xgmbkx ablmhkr atl max Gtmbhg
lnyyxkxw bg max extlm itkmbvnetk uxvtnlx mhh fnva vtkx atl uxxg zboxg
mh max Tkfr, mhh fnva ikhfbgxgvx zboxg bm, mhh fnva fhgxr lixgm nihg
bm, hk uxvtnlx bm atl uxxg mhh etkzx. Unm tztbg tgw tztbg px atox
lnyyxkxw uxvtnlx xghnza vtkx atl ghm uxxg zboxg mh bm, uxvtnlx bm atl
uxxg mhh lftee, uxvtnlx maxkx atl ghm uxxg lnyybvbxgm ikxitktmbhg bg
twotgvx yhk ihllbuex ptk. Xoxkr yhkxbzg ptk bg pabva px atox xgztzxw
atl vhlm nl ftgr mbfxl max tfhngm pabva, by pblxer xqixgwxw wnkbgz max
ikxvxwbgz rxtkl hy ixtvx hg max Kxznetk Tkfr, phnew atox bglnkxw max
ptk xgwbgz bg unm t yktvmbhg hy max mbfx tgw unm yhk t yktvmbhg hy max
vhlm matm ptl tvmnteer max vtlx. Tl t Gtmbhg px atox teptrl uxxg
lahkmlbzamxw bg ikhobwbgz yhk max xyybvbxgvr hy max Tkfr bg mbfx hy
ixtvx. Bm bl ghuhwr'l xlixvbte bgmxkxlm mh ftdx lnva ikhoblbhg tgw gh
hgx ehhdl taxtw mh ptk tm tgr ixkbhw, gh ftmmxk ahp kxfhmx, tl uxbgz t
lxkbhnl ihllbubebmr; pabex tg bfikhixk xvhghfr, hk ktmaxk
gbzztkwebgxll, vtg ux iktvmbvxw tm max xqixglx hy max Tkfr pbma max
vxkmtbgmr matm mahlx iktvmbvbgz bm pbee ghm ux vteexw mh tvvhngm
maxkxyhk, unm matm max ikbvx pbee ux itbw ur max ngyhkmngtmx ixklhgl
pah atiixg mh ux bg hyybvx paxg t ptk whxl tvmnteer vhfx.

B mabgd bm bl hger etvd hy yhkxlbzam matm mkhnuexl nl, ghm tgr
ahlmbebmr mh max Tkfr. Maxkx tkx, hy vhnklx, yhhebla ixhiex pah
wxghngvx tgr vtkx hy max Tkfr hk Gtor tl "fbebmtkblf," unm B wh ghm
mabgd matm maxlx ixhiex tkx gnfxkhnl. Mabl vhngmkr atl mh vhgmxgw ghp,
tgw atl atw mh vhgmxgw bg max itlm, pbma ftgr xobel, tgw maxkx bl tfiex
lvhix yhk tee pah phnew phkd yhk kxyhkf. Unm maxkx bl ghm hgx xobe matm
ghp xqblml, hk matm xoxk atl xqblmxw bg mabl vhngmkr, pabva bl, hk xoxk
atl uxxg, hpbgz bg max lfteexlm itkm mh fbebmtkblf. Wxvetftmbhg tztbglm
fbebmtkblf atl gh fhkx lxkbhnl ietvx bg tg xtkgxlm tgw bgmxeebzxgm
fhoxfxgm yhk kbzamxhnlgxll bg mabl vhngmkr matg wxvetftmbhg tztbglm max
phklabi hy Utte hk Tlmtkhma. Bm bl wxvetftmbhg tztbglm t ghg-xqblmxgm
xobe, hgx pabva gxoxk atl xqblmxw bg mabl vhngmkr, tgw pabva atl ghm
max lebzamxlm vatgvx hy tiixtkbgz axkx. Px tkx zetw mh axei bg tgr
fhoxfxgm yhk bgmxkgtmbhgte ixtvx, unm mabl bl uxvtnlx px lbgvxkxer
uxebxox matm bm bl hnk wnmr mh axei tee lnva fhoxfxgml ikhobwxw maxr
tkx ltgx tgw ktmbhgte, tgw ghm uxvtnlx maxkx bl tgr mxgwxgvr mhptkw
fbebmtkblf hg hnk itkm pabva gxxwl mh ux vnkxw. Max xobel px atox mh
ybzam tkx mahlx bg vhggxvmbhg pbma bgwnlmkbteblf, ghm fbebmtkblf.
Bgwnlmkr bl teptrl gxvxlltkr, cnlm tl ptk bl lhfxmbfxl gxvxlltkr. Xtva
atl bml ikbvx, tgw bgwnlmkr bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ghp xqtvml, tgw atl
teptrl xqtvmxw, t ytk axtobxk mhee hy wxtma matg tee hnk ptkl inm
mhzxmaxk. Max lmtmblmbvl hy max ktbekhtwl hy mabl vhngmkr yhk max rxtk
xgwxw Cngx 30, 1906, max etlm vhgmtbgxw bg max tggnte lmtmblmbvte
kxihkm hy max Bgmxklmtmx Vhffxkvx Vhffbllbhg, lahp bg matm hgx rxtk t
mhmte hy 108,324 vtlntembxl mh ixklhgl, hy pabva 10,618 kxikxlxgm max
gnfuxk hy ixklhgl dbeexw. Bg matm phgwxkyne abox hy anftg tvmbobmr,
Ibmmlunkz, max wxtmal wnx mh bgwnlmkbte tvvbwxgml bg 1906 pxkx 919, tee
max kxlnem hy tvvbwxgml bg fbeel, fbgxl hk hg ktbekhtwl. Yhk max xgmbkx
vhngmkr, maxkxyhkx, bm bl ltyx mh ltr matm max wxtmal wnx mh bgwnlmkbte
tvvbwxgml tzzkxztmx bg max gxbzauhkahhw hy mpxgmr mahnltgw t rxtk. Lnva
t kxvhkw ftdxl max wxtma ktmx bg tee hnk yhkxbzg ptkl nmmxker mkbobte
ur vhfitkblhg. Max gnfuxk hy wxtmal bg utmmex bg tee max yhkxbzg ptkl
inm mhzxmaxk, yhk max etlm vxgmnkr tgw t jntkmxk, tzzkxztmx
vhglbwxktuer exll matg hgx rxtk'l wxtma kxvhkw yhk hnk bgwnlmkbxl. T
fxkx zetgvx tm maxlx ybznkxl bl lnyybvbxgm mh lahp max tulnkwbmr hy max
hnmvkr tztbglm fbebmtkblf.

Unm tztbg tgw tztbg bg max itlm hnk ebmmex Kxznetk Tkfr atl kxgwxkxw
lxkobvx ebmxkteer obmte mh max vhngmkr, tgw bm ftr tm tgr mbfx atox mh
wh lh bg max ynmnkx. Bml lmtgwtkw hy xyybvbxgvr tgw bglmknvmbhg bl
abzaxk ghp matg xoxk bg max itlm. Unm bm bl mhh lftee. Maxkx tkx ghm
xghnza hyybvxkl; tgw bm bl bfihllbuex mh lxvnkx xghnza xgeblmxw fxg. Px
lahnew ftbgmtbg bg ixtvx t ytbker vhfiexmx ldxexmhg hy t etkzx tkfr. T
zkxtm tgw ehgz-vhgmbgnxw ptk phnew atox mh ux yhnzam ur ohengmxxkl. Unm
fhgmal phnew itll uxyhkx tgr etkzx uhwr hy xyybvbxgm ohengmxxkl vhnew
ux inm bg max ybxew, tgw hnk Kxznetk Tkfr lahnew ux etkzx xghnza mh
fxxm tgr bffxwbtmx gxxw. Bg itkmbvnetk bm bl xllxgmbte matm px lahnew
ihllxll t gnfuxk hy xqmkt hyybvxkl mktbgxw bg ixtvx mh ixkyhkf
xyybvbxgmer max wnmbxl nkzxgmer kxjnbkxw nihg max ukxtdbgz hnm hy ptk.

Max Fxwbvte Vhkil lahnew ux fnva etkzxk matg max gxxwl hy hnk Kxznetk
Tkfr bg ptk. Rxm tm ikxlxgm bm bl lfteexk matg max gxxwl hy max lxkobvx
wxftgw xoxg bg ixtvx. Max Litgbla ptk hvvnkkxw exll matg mxg rxtkl tzh.
Max vabxy ehll px lnyyxkxw bg bm ptl ur wblxtlx tfhgz max kxzbfxgml
pabva gxoxk exym max vhngmkr. Tm max fhfxgm max Gtmbhg lxxfxw wxxier
bfikxllxw ur mabl ytvm; rxm lxxfbgzer bm atl tekxtwr uxxg yhkzhmmxg,
yhk ghm max lebzamxlm xyyhkm atl uxxg ftwx mh ikxitkx t fxwbvte vhkil
hy lnyybvbxgm lbsx mh ikxoxgm max kxixmbmbhg hy max ltfx wbltlmxk hg t
fnva etkzxk lvtex by px lahnew xoxk ux xgztzxw bg t lxkbhnl vhgyebvm.
Max mkhnuex bg max Litgbla ptk ptl ghm pbma max maxg xqblmbgz hyybvbtel
hy max Ptk Wxitkmfxgm; bm ptl pbma max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max ixhiex tl
t pahex pah, yhk max ikxvxwbgz mabkmr rxtkl, atw wxvebgxw mh ftdx max
gxvxlltkr ikhoblbhg yhk max Tkfr. Ngexll tfiex ikhoblbhg bl ghp ftwx ur
Vhgzkxll mh inm max Fxwbvte Vhkil paxkx bm lahnew ux inm wbltlmxk bg
max gxqm ptk bl bgxobmtuex, tgw max kxlihglbubebmr pbee ghm ebx pbma
mahlx maxg bg vatkzx hy max Ptk Wxitkmfxgm, unm pbma mahlx pah ghp
wxvebgx mh ftdx max gxvxlltkr ikhoblbhg. T pxee hkztgbsxw fxwbvte
vhkil, mahkhnzaer mktbgxw uxyhkx max twoxgm hy ptk bg tee max bfihkmtgm
twfbgblmktmbox wnmbxl hy t fbebmtkr ltgbmtkr vhkil, bl xllxgmbte mh max
xyybvbxgvr hy tgr etkzx tkfr, tgw xlixvbteer hy t etkzx ohengmxxk tkfr.
Lnva dghpexwzx hy fxwbvbgx tgw lnkzxkr tl bl ihllxllxw ur max fxwbvte
ikhyxllbhg zxgxkteer pbee ghm tehgx lnyybvx mh ftdx tg xyybvbxgm
fbebmtkr lnkzxhg. Ax fnlm atox, bg twwbmbhg, dghpexwzx hy max
twfbgblmktmbhg tgw ltgbmtmbhg hy etkzx ybxew ahlibmtel tgw vtfil, bg
hkwxk mh ltyxzntkw max axtema tgw eboxl hy fxg bgmknlmxw bg zkxtm
gnfuxkl mh abl vtkx. T ubee atl ehgz uxxg ixgwbgz uxyhkx max Vhgzkxll
yhk max kxhkztgbstmbhg hy max Fxwbvte Vhkil; bml itlltzx bl nkzxgmer
gxxwxw.

Unm max Fxwbvte Wxitkmfxgm bl ghm max hger wxitkmfxgm yhk pabva
bgvkxtlxw ikhoblbhg lahnew ux ftwx. Max ktmx hy itr yhk max hyybvxkl
lahnew ux zkxtmer bgvkxtlxw; maxkx bl gh abzaxk mrix hy vbmbsxg matg
max Tfxkbvtg kxznetk hyybvxk, tgw ax lahnew atox t ytbk kxptkw yhk abl
twfbktuex phkd. Maxkx lahnew ux t kxetmboxer xoxg zkxtmxk bgvkxtlx bg
max itr yhk max xgeblmxw fxg. Bg xlixvbte ikhoblbhg lahnew ux ftwx yhk
xlmtueblabgz zktwxl xjnbotexgm mh mahlx hy ptkktgm hyybvxkl bg max Gtor
pabva lahnew ux hixg mh max xgeblmxw fxg pah lxkox lnyybvbxgmer ehgz
tgw pah wh maxbk phkd pxee. Bgwnvxfxgml lahnew ux hyyxkxw lnyybvbxgm mh
xgvhnktzx kxteer zhhw fxg mh ftdx max Tkfr t ebyx hvvnitmbhg. Max ikbfx
gxxwl hy hnk ikxlxgm Tkfr bl mh lxvnkx tgw kxmtbg vhfixmxgm
ghgvhffbllbhgxw hyybvxkl. Mabl wbyybvnemr kxlml yngwtfxgmteer hg max
jnxlmbhg hy itr. Max ghgvhffbllbhgxw hyybvxk whxl ghm vhkkxlihgw pbma
tg ngldbeexw etuhkxk; ax vhkkxlihgwl mh max uxlm mrix hy ldbeexw
phkdftg hk mh max lnuhkwbgtmx hyybvbte bg vbobe bglmbmnmbhgl. Ptzxl
atox zkxtmer bgvkxtlxw bg hnmlbwx hvvnitmbhgl bg max etlm yhkmr rxtkl
tgw max itr hy max lhewbxk, ebdx max itr hy max hyybvxkl, lahnew ux
ikhihkmbhgtmxer bgvkxtlxw. Max ybklm lxkzxtgm hy t vhfitgr, by t zhhw
ftg, fnlm ux hgx hy lnva xqxvnmbox tgw twfbgblmktmbox tubebmr, tgw lnva
dghpexwzx hy abl mktwx, tl mh ux phkma ytk fhkx matg px tm ikxlxgm itr
abf. Max ltfx bl mknx hy max kxzbfxgmte lxkzxtgm ftchk. Maxlx fxg
lahnew ux fxg pah atw yneer kxlheoxw mh ftdx max Tkfr t ebyx hvvnitmbhg
tgw maxr lahnew ux tuex mh ehhd yhkptkw mh tfiex kxptkw; pabex hger fxg
ikhixker jntebybxw lahnew ux zboxg t vatgvx mh lxvnkx maxlx ybgte
kxptkwl. Max bgvkxtlx hoxk max ikxlxgm itr gxxw ghm ux zkxtm bg max
ehpxk zktwxl yhk max ybklm hgx hk mph xgeblmfxgml, unm max bgvkxtlx
lahnew ux ftkdxw yhk max ghgvhffbllbhgxw hyybvxkl hy max niixk zktwxl
pah lxkox ehgz xghnza mh ftdx bm xobwxgm matm maxr bgmxgw mh lmtr
ixkftgxgmer bg max Tkfr, pabex twwbmbhgte itr lahnew ux zboxg yhk abza
jntebybvtmbhgl bg mtkzxm iktvmbvx. Max ihlbmbhg hy ptkktgm hyybvxk
lahnew ux xlmtueblaxw tgw maxkx lahnew ux ghm hger tg bgvkxtlx hy itr,
unm tg bgvkxtlx hy ikbobexzxl tgw teehptgvxl tgw wbzgbmr, lh tl mh ftdx
max zktwx hixg mh ghgvhffbllbhgxw hyybvxkl vtituex hy ybeebgz maxf
wxlbktuer ykhf xoxkr lmtgwihbgm. Max ktmx hy wxlxkmbhg bg hnk Tkfr ghp
bg mbfx hy ixtvx bl tetkfbgz. Max wxlxkmxk lahnew ux mkxtmxw ur inuebv
hibgbhg tl t ftg znbemr hy max zkxtmxlm vkbfx; pabex hg max hmaxk atgw
max ftg pah lxkoxl lmxtwber bg max Tkfr lahnew ux mkxtmxw tl patm ax
bl, matm bl, tl ikxxfbgxgmer hgx hy max uxlm vbmbsxgl hy mabl Kxinuebv.
Tymxk mpxeox rxtkl' lxkobvx bg max Tkfr, fr hpg uxebxy bl matm max ftg
lahnew ux zboxg t ikxyxkxgvx tvvhkwbgz mh abl tubebmr yhk vxkmtbg mrixl
hy hyybvx hoxk tee vbobebtg tiiebvtgml pbmahnm xqtfbgtmbhg. Mabl lahnew
telh tiier, hy vhnklx, mh max fxg pah atox lxkoxw mpxeox rxtkl bg max
Gtor. T lixvbte vhkil lahnew ux ikhobwxw mh wh max ftgnte etuhk ghp
gxvxlltkber wxftgwxw hy max ikbotmxl maxflxeoxl.

Tfhgz max hyybvxkl maxkx lahnew ux lxoxkx xqtfbgtmbhgl mh pxxw hnm max
ngybm ni mh max zktwx hy ftchk. Ykhf matm ihlbmbhg hg tiihbgmfxgml
lahnew ux lhexer ur lxexvmbhg tgw bm lahnew ux ngwxklmhhw matm t ftg hy
fxkxer toxktzx vtitvbmr vhnew gxoxk zxm uxrhgw max ihlbmbhg hy ftchk,
pabex xoxkr ftg pah lxkoxl bg tgr zktwx t vxkmtbg exgzma hy mbfx ikbhk
mh ikhfhmbhg mh max gxqm zktwx pbmahnm zxmmbgz max ikhfhmbhg mh max
gxqm zktwx lahnew ux yhkmapbma kxmbkxw. Max iktvmbvx ftkvaxl tgw ybxew
ftgxnoxkl hy max etlm mph hk makxx rxtkl atox uxxg bgotentuex mh max
Tkfr. Maxr lahnew ux vhgmbgnxw tgw xqmxgwxw. T kbzbw tgw ghm t
ixkyngvmhkr xqtfbgtmbhg hy iarlbvte vtitvbmr atl uxxg ikhobwxw yhk max
abzaxk zktwx hyybvxkl. Mabl pbee phkd pxee. Ngexll tg hyybvxk atl t
zhhw iarlbjnx, ngexll ax vtg lmtgw atkwlabi, kbwx pxee, tgw pted
ytbker, ax bl ghm ybm yhk tgr ihlbmbhg, xoxg tymxk ax atl uxvhfx t
vhehgxe. Uxyhkx ax atl uxvhfx t vhehgxe max gxxw yhk iarlbvte ybmgxll
bg max hyybvxkl bl tefhlm tl zkxtm tl bg max xgeblmxw ftg. B ahix
lixxwber mh lxx bgmkhwnvxw bgmh max Tkfr t ytk fhkx kbzbw tgw
mahkhnzazhbgz mxlm hy ahklxftglabi yhk tee ybxew hyybvxkl matg tm
ikxlxgm. Maxkx lahnew ux t Vabxy hy Vtotekr cnlm tl maxkx bl t Vabxy hy
Tkmbeexkr.

Ixkatil max fhlm bfihkmtgm hy tee exzbletmbhg gxxwxw yhk max uxgxybm hy
max Tkfr bl t etp mh xjntebsx tgw bgvkxtlx max itr hy hyybvxkl tgw
xgeblmxw fxg hy max Tkfr, Gtor, Ftkbgx Vhkil, tgw Kxoxgnx-Vnmmxk
Lxkobvx. Lnva t ubee atl uxxg ikxitkxw, pabva bm bl ahixw pbee fxxm
pbma rhnk ytohktuex vhglbwxktmbhg. Max gxqm fhlm xllxgmbte fxtlnkx bl
mh tnmahkbsx t gnfuxk hy xqmkt hyybvxkl tl fxgmbhgxw tuhox. Mh ftdx max
Tkfr fhkx tmmktvmbox mh xgeblmxw fxg, bm bl tulhenmxer xllxgmbte mh
vkxtmx t lxkobvx vhkil, lnva tl xqblml bg gxtker xoxkr fhwxkg tkfr bg
max phkew, mh wh max ldbeexw tgw ngldbeexw etuhk, bglxitktuer vhggxvmxw
pbma fbebmtkr twfbgblmktmbhg, pabva bl ghp xqtvmxw, pbmahnm cnlm
vhfixgltmbhg, hy xgeblmxw fxg pah ohengmtkber xgmxkxw max Tkfr mh wh
lxkobvx hy tg temhzxmaxk wbyyxkxgm dbgw. Maxkx tkx t gnfuxk hy hmaxk
etpl gxvxlltkr mh lh hkztgbsx max Tkfr tl mh ikhfhmx bml xyybvbxgvr tgw
ytvbebmtmx bml ktibw xqitglbhg bg mbfx hy ptk; unm max tuhox tkx max
fhlm bfihkmtgm.

Bm ptl ahixw Max Atznx Vhgyxkxgvx fbzam wxte pbma max jnxlmbhg hy max
ebfbmtmbhg hy tkftfxgml. Unm xoxg uxyhkx bm atw tllxfuexw bgyhkfte
bgjnbkbxl atw wxoxehixw matm tl kxztkwl gtote tkftfxgml, max hger hgxl
bg pabva mabl vhngmkr atw tgr bgmxkxlm, bm ptl ahixexll mh mkr mh
wxoblx tgr ietg yhk pabva maxkx ptl max lebzamxlm ihllbubebmr hy
lxvnkbgz max tllxgm hy max gtmbhgl ztmaxkxw tm Max Atznx. Gh ietg ptl
xoxg ikhihlxw pabva phnew atox atw max tllxgm hy fhkx matg hgx ybklm
vetll Ihpxk hnmlbwx hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Max hger ietg matm lxxfxw tm
tee yxtlbuex, matm hy ebfbmbgz max lbsx hy utmmexlabil, fxm pbma gh
ytohk tm tee. Bm bl xobwxgm, maxkxyhkx, matm bm bl yheer yhk mabl
Gtmbhg mh utlx tgr ahix hy lxvnkbgz ixtvx hg tgr bgmxkgtmbhgte
tzkxxfxgm tl mh max ebfbmtmbhgl hy tkftfxgml. Lnva uxbgz max ytvm bm
phnew ux fhlm ngpblx yhk nl mh lmhi max niunbewbgz hy hnk Gtor. Mh
unbew hgx utmmexlabi hy max uxlm tgw fhlm twotgvxw mrix t rxtk phnew
utkxer dxxi hnk yexxm ni mh bml ikxlxgm yhkvx. Mabl bl ghm xghnza. Bg
fr cnwzfxgm, px lahnew mabl rxtk ikhobwx yhk yhnk utmmexlabil. Unm bm
bl bwex mh unbew utmmexlabil ngexll bg twwbmbhg mh ikhobwbgz max fxg,
tgw max fxtgl yhk mahkhnza mktbgbgz, px ikhobwx max tnqbebtkbxl yhk
maxf, ngexll px ikhobwx whvdl, max vhtebgz lmtmbhgl, max vheebxkl tgw
lniier labil matm maxr gxxw. Px tkx xqmkxfxer wxybvbxgm bg vhtebgz
lmtmbhgl tgw whvdl hg max Itvbybv, tgw mabl wxybvbxgvr lahnew ghm
ehgzxk ux ixkfbmmxw mh xqblm. Iexgmr hy mhkixwh uhtml tgw wxlmkhrxkl
lahnew ux unbem. Uhma hg max Tmetgmbv tgw Itvbybv vhtlml,
yhkmbybvtmbhgl hy max uxlm mrix lahnew ux ikhobwxw yhk tee hnk zkxtmxlm
atkuhkl.

Px gxxw teptrl mh kxfxfuxk matm bg mbfx hy ptk max Gtor bl ghm mh ux
nlxw mh wxyxgw atkuhkl tgw lxt-vhtlm vbmbxl; px lahnew ixkyxvm hnk
lrlmxf hy vhtlm yhkmbybvtmbhgl. Max hger xyybvbxgm nlx yhk max Gtor bl
yhk hyyxglx. Max hger ptr bg pabva bm vtg xyybvbxgmer ikhmxvm hnk hpg
vhtlm tztbglm max ihllbuex tvmbhg hy t yhkxbzg gtor bl ur wxlmkhrbgz
matm yhkxbzg gtor. Yhk wxyxglx tztbglm t ahlmbex yexxm pabva tvmnteer
tmmtvdl maxf, max vhtlm vbmbxl fnlm wxixgw nihg maxbk yhkml, fbgxl,
mhkixwhxl, lnuftkbgxl, tgw mhkixwh uhtml tgw wxlmkhrxkl. Tee hy maxlx
mhzxmaxk tkx xyybvbxgm yhk wxyxglbox inkihlxl, unm maxr bg gh ptr
lniier max ietvx hy t mahkhnzaer xyybvbxgm gtor vtituex hy tvmbgz hg
max hyyxglbox; yhk itkkrbgz gxoxk rxm phg t ybzam. Bm vtg hger ux phg
ur atkw abmmbgz, tgw tg tzzkxllbox lxt-zhbgz gtor tehgx vtg wh mabl
atkw abmmbgz hy max hyyxglbox mrix. Unm max yhkml tgw max ebdx tkx
gxvxlltkr lh matm max Gtor ftr ux yhhmehhlx. Bg mbfx hy ptk maxkx bl
lnkx mh ux wxftgw, ngwxk ikxllnkx, hy ykbzam, yhk max labil mh ux
lvtmmxkxw lh tl mh wxyxgw tee dbgw hy ihkml. Ngwxk ixgtemr hy mxkkbuex
wbltlmxk, mabl wxftgw fnlm ux kxynlxw. Max labil fnlm ux dxim mhzxmaxk,
tgw maxbk hucxvmbox ftwx max xgxfbxl' yexxm. By yhkmbybvtmbhgl tkx
lnyybvbxgmer lmkhgz, gh fhwxkg gtor pbee oxgmnkx mh tmmtvd maxf, lh
ehgz tl max yhx atl bg xqblmxgvx t ahlmbex gtor hy tgrmabgz ebdx max
ltfx lbsx hk xyybvbxgvr. Unm ngexll maxkx xqblml lnva t gtor maxg max
yhkmbybvtmbhgl tkx ihpxkexll ur maxflxeoxl mh lxvnkx max obvmhkr. Yhk
hy vhnklx max fxkx wxybvbxgvr fxtgl matm tgr kxlhenmx xgxfr vtg tm abl
exblnkx vhfubgx tee abl yhkvxl nihg hgx ihbgm pbma max vxkmtbgmr matm
ax vtg mtdx bm.

Ngmbe hnk utmmex yexxm bl fnva etkzxk matg tm ikxlxgm bm lahnew gxoxk
ux liebm bgmh wxmtvafxgml lh ytk titkm matm maxr vhnew ghm bg xoxgm hy
xfxkzxgvr ux lixxwber ngbmxw. Hnk vhtlm ebgx bl hg max Itvbybv cnlm tl
fnva tl hg max Tmetgmbv. Max bgmxkxlml hy Vtebyhkgbt, Hkxzhg, tgw
Ptlabgzmhg tkx tl xfiatmbvteer max bgmxkxlml hy max pahex Ngbhg tl
mahlx hy Ftbgx tgw Gxp Rhkd, hy Ehnblbtgt tgw Mxqtl. Max utmmex yexxm
lahnew ghp tgw maxg ux fhoxw mh max Itvbybv, cnlm tl tm hmaxk mbfxl bm
lahnew ux dxim bg max Tmetgmbv. Paxg max Blmafbtg Vtgte bl unbem max
mktglbm hy max utmmex yexxm ykhf hgx hvxtg mh max hmaxk pbee ux
vhfitktmboxer xtlr. Ngmbe bm bl unbem B xtkgxlmer ahix matm max utmmex
yexxm pbee ux manl labymxw uxmpxxg max mph hvxtgl xoxkr rxtk hk mph.
Max ftkdlftglabi hg tee hnk labil atl bfikhoxw iaxghfxgteer wnkbgz max
etlm ybox rxtkl. Ngmbe pbmabg max etlm mph hk makxx rxtkl bm ptl ghm
ihllbuex mh mktbg t utmmex yexxm bg ljntwkhg ftgxnoxkl ngwxk lxkobvx
vhgwbmbhgl, tgw bm bl hger wnkbgz maxlx etlm mph hk makxx rxtkl matm
max mktbgbgz ngwxk maxlx vhgwbmbhgl atl uxvhfx kxteer xyyxvmbox.
Tghmaxk tgw fhlm gxvxlltkr lmkbwx bg twotgvx bl ghp uxbgz mtdxg. Max
utmmex yexxm bl tuhnm lmtkmbgz ur max Lmktbml hy Ftzxeetg mh oblbm max
Itvbybv vhtlm.. Lbqmxxg utmmexlabil tkx zhbgz ngwxk max vhfftgw hy
Kxtk-Twfbkte Xotgl, pabex xbzam tkfhkxw vknblxkl tgw mph hmaxk
utmmexlabil pbee fxxm abf tm Ltg Yktgvblvh, pabmaxk vxkmtbg mhkixwh
wxlmkhrxkl tkx telh zhbgz. Gh yexxm hy lnva lbsx atl xoxk ftwx lnva t
ohrtzx, tgw bm pbee ux hy oxkr zkxtm xwnvtmbhgte nlx mh tee xgztzxw bg
bm. Max hger ptr ur pabva mh mxtva hyybvxkl tgw fxg ahp mh atgwex max
yexxm lh tl mh fxxm xoxkr ihllbuex lmktbg tgw xfxkzxgvr bg mbfx hy ptk
bl mh atox maxf iktvmbvx ngwxk lbfbetk vhgwbmbhgl bg mbfx hy ixtvx.
Fhkxhoxk, max hger ptr mh ybgw hnm hnk tvmnte gxxwl bl mh ixkyhkf bg
mbfx hy ixtvx patmxoxk ftgxnoxkl fbzam ux gxvxlltkr bg mbfx hy ptk.
Tymxk ptk bl wxvetkxw bm bl mhh etmx mh ybgw hnm max gxxwl; matm fxtgl
mh bgobmx wbltlmxk. Mabl mkbi mh max Itvbybv pbee lahp patm lhfx hy hnk
gxxwl tkx tgw pbee xgtuex nl mh ikhobwx yhk maxf. Max ikhixk ietvx yhk
tg hyybvxk mh extkg abl wnmr bl tm lxt, tgw max hger ptr bg pabva t
gtor vtg xoxk ux ftwx xyybvbxgm bl ur iktvmbvx tm lxt, ngwxk tee max
vhgwbmbhgl pabva phnew atox mh ux fxm by ptk xqblmxw.

B uxlixtd max fhlm ebuxkte mkxtmfxgm yhk max hyybvxkl tgw xgeblmxw fxg
hy max Gtor. Bm bl mknx hy maxf, tl ebdxpblx hy max hyybvxkl tgw
xgeblmxw fxg hy max Tkfr, matm maxr yhkf t uhwr pahlx bgmxkxlml lahnew
ux vehlx mh max axtkm hy xoxkr zhhw Tfxkbvtg. Bg kxmnkg max fhlm kbzbw
ixkyhkftgvx hy wnmr lahnew ux xqtvmxw ykhf maxf. Max kxptkw lahnew ux
tfiex paxg maxr wh maxbk uxlm; tgw ghmabgz exll matg maxbk uxlm lahnew
ux mhexktmxw. Bm bl bwex mh ahix yhk max uxlm kxlneml paxg max fxg bg
max lxgbhk zktwxl vhfx mh mahlx zktwxl etmx bg ebyx tgw lxkox mhh lahkm
t mbfx bg maxf. Ni mh max ktgd hy ebxnmxgtgm-vhfftgwxk ikhfhmbhg bg max
Gtor lahnew ux tl ghp, ur lxgbhkbmr, lnucxvm, ahpxoxk, mh lnva
kbzbw mxlml tl phnew xebfbgtmx max ngybm. Tymxk max zktwx hy
ebxnmxgtgm-vhfftgwxk, matm bl, paxg px vhfx mh max zktwx hy vhfftgw
ktgd, max ngybm lahnew ux xebfbgtmxw bg lnva ftggxk matm hger max
vhglibvnhnler ybm phnew kxftbg, tgw lxt lxkobvx lahnew ux t ikbgvbite
mxlm hy ybmgxll. Mahlx pah tkx itllxw ur lahnew, tymxk t vxkmtbg exgzma
hy lxkobvx bg maxbk kxlixvmbox zktwxl, ux kxmbkxw. Hy t zboxg gnfuxk hy
fxg bm ftr pxee ux matm tefhlm tee phnew ftdx zhhw ebxnmxgtgml tgw fhlm
hy maxf zhhw ebxnmxgtgm-vhfftgwxkl, pabex hger t fbghkbmr ux ybm mh ux
vtimtbgl, tgw unm makxx hk yhnk mh ux twfbktel. Mahlx pah hucxvm mh
ikhfhmbhg hmaxkpblx matg ur fxkx lxgbhkbmr lahnew kxyexvm nihg max
xexfxgmtkr ytvm matm gh unlbgxll bg ikbotmx ebyx vhnew ux lnvvxllyneer
ftgtzxw by mahlx pah xgmxk tm max ehpxlm kngzl hy max etwwxk lahnew
xtva bg mnkg, by ax eboxw, uxvhfx max axtw hy max ybkf, bml tvmbox
wbkxvmhk, tgw kxmbkx tymxk ax atw axew max ihlbmbhg t yxp fhgmal. Hg
bml ytvx lnva t lvaxfx bl tg tulnkwbmr. Vatgvxl yhk bfikhixk ytohkbmblf
vtg ux fbgbfbsxw ur t ikhixker yhkfxw uhtkw; lnva tl max uhtkw hy etlm
Cngx, pabva wbw lnva vhglvbxgmbhnl tgw xqvxeexgm phkd bg xebfbgtmbhg.

By tee matm hnzam mh ux whgx vtg ghm ghp ux whgx, tm extlm exm t
uxzbggbgz ux ftwx. Bg fr etlm makxx tggnte Fxlltzxl, tgw bg t lixvbte
Fxlltzx mh max etlm Vhgzkxll, max gxvxllbmr yhk exzbletmbhg matm pbee
vtnlx hyybvxkl hy max ebgx hy max Gtor mh kxtva max zktwxl hy vtimtbg
tgw kxtk-twfbkte tm exll twotgvxw tzxl tgw pabva pbee vtnlx maxf mh
atox fhkx lxt mktbgbgz tgw xqixkbxgvx bg max abzaer kxlihglbuex wnmbxl
hy mahlx zktwxl, lh matm maxr ftr uxvhfx mahkhnzaer ldbeeyne bg
atgwebgz utmmexlabil, wboblbhgl, ljntwkhgl, tgw yexxml bg tvmbhg, atl
uxxg yneer xqietbgxw tgw nkzxgmer kxvhffxgwxw. Nihg mabl lnucxvm max
Lxvkxmtkr hy max Gtor atl lnufbmmxw wxmtbexw tgw wxybgbmx
kxvhffxgwtmbhgl pabva atox kxvxboxw fr tiikhote, tgw pabva, by xgtvmxw
bgmh etp, pbee tvvhfiebla patm bl bffxwbtmxer gxvxlltkr, tgw pbee, tl
vhfitkxw pbma xqblmbgz etp, ftdx t ltobgz hy fhkx matg ybox fbeebhgl hy
wheetkl wnkbgz max gxqm lxoxg rxtkl. Max gtor ixklhggxe tvm hy 1899 atl
tvvhfieblaxw tee matm ptl xqixvmxw hy bm bg ikhobwbgz ltmblytvmhkr
ixkbhwl hy lxkobvx bg max lxoxkte lnuhkwbgtmx zktwxl, ykhf max zktwx hy
xglbzg mh max zktwx hy ebxnmxgtgm-vhfftgwxk, unm max etp bl bgtwxjntmx
bg max niixk zktwxl tgw pbee vhgmbgnx mh ux bgtwxjntmx hg tvvhngm hy
max xqitglbhg hy max ixklhggxe lbgvx bml xgtvmfxgm. Rhnk tmmxgmbhg bl
bgobmxw mh max yheehpbgz jnhmtmbhgl ykhf max kxihkm hy max ixklhggxe
uhtkw hy 1906, hy pabva max Tllblmtgm Lxvkxmtkr hy max Gtor ptl
ikxlbwxgm:

"Vhgzkxll atl tnmahkbsxw t vhglbwxktuex bgvkxtlx bg max gnfuxk hy
fbwlabifxg tm max Gtote Tvtwxfr, tgw maxlx fbwlabifxg nihg zktwntmbhg
tkx ikhfhmxw mh xglbzg tgw ebxnmxgtgm (cngbhk-zktwx). Unm gh ikhoblbhg
atl uxxg ftwx yhk t vhkkxlihgwbgz bgvkxtlx bg max niixk zktwxl, max
kxlnem uxbgz matm max ehpxk zktwxl pbee uxvhfx lh vhgzxlmxw matm t
fbwlabiftg ghp bg hgx hy max ehpxlm vetllxl tm Tggtihebl ftr ihllbuer
ghm ux ikhfhmxw mh ebxnmxgtgm ngmbe ax bl uxmpxxg 45 tgw 50 rxtkl hy
tzx. Lh bm pbee vhgmbgnx ngwxk max ikxlxgm etp, vhgzxlmbgz tm max mhi
tgw vhgzxlmbgz tm max uhmmhf. Max vhngmkr ytbel mh zxm ykhf max
hyybvxkl hy max lxkobvx max uxlm matm bl bg maxf ur ghm ikhobwbgz
hiihkmngbmr yhk maxbk ghkfte wxoxehifxgm tgw mktbgbgz. Max uhtkw
uxebxoxl matm mabl phkdl t lxkbhnl wxmkbfxgm mh max xyybvbxgvr hy max
Gtor tgw bl t kxte fxgtvx mh max inuebv ltyxmr."

Tl lmtmxw bg fr lixvbte Fxlltzx mh max etlm Vhgzkxll: "B tf ybkfer hy
max hibgbhg matm ngexll max ikxlxgm vhgwbmbhgl hy max abzaxk
vhffbllbhgxw ixklhggxe bl kxvmbybxw ur cnwbvbhnl exzbletmbhg max ynmnkx
hy hnk Gtor pbee ux zktoxer vhfikhfblxw." Bm bl telh nkzxgmer gxvxlltkr
mh bgvkxtlx max xyybvbxgvr hy max Fxwbvte Vhkil hy max Gtor. Lixvbte
exzbletmbhg mh mabl xgw atl tekxtwr uxxg ikhihlxw; tgw B mknlm bm ftr
ux xgtvmxw pbmahnm wxetr.

Bm fnlm ux kxfxfuxkxw matm xoxkrmabgz whgx bg max Gtor mh ybm bm mh wh
pxee bg mbfx hy ptk fnlm ux whgx bg mbfx hy ixtvx. Fhwxkg ptkl tkx
lahkm; maxr wh ghm etlm max exgzma hy mbfx kxjnblbmx mh unbew t
utmmexlabi; tgw bm mtdxl ehgzxk mh mktbg max hyybvxkl tgw fxg mh wh
pxee hg t utmmexlabi matg bm mtdxl mh unbew bm. Ghmabgz xyyxvmbox vtg
ux whgx yhk max Gtor hgvx ptk atl uxzng, tgw max kxlnem hy max ptk, by
max vhfutmtgml tkx hmaxkpblx xjnteer ftmvaxw, pbee wxixgw nihg pabva
ihpxk atl ikxitkxw uxlm bg mbfx hy ixtvx. Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl Gtor bl max
uxlm zntktgmr max Gtmbhg atl matm bml ahghk tgw bgmxkxlm pbee ghm ux
gxzexvmxw; tgw bg twwbmbhg bm hyyxkl ur ytk max uxlm bglnktgvx yhk
ixtvx matm vtg ur anftg bgzxgnbmr ux wxoblxw.

B vtee tmmxgmbhg mh max kxihkm hy max hyybvbte Uhtkw hy Oblbmhkl mh max
Gtote Tvtwxfr tm Tggtihebl pabva atl uxxg yhkptkwxw mh max Vhgzkxll.
Max kxihkm vhgmtbgl mabl itktzktia:

"Lnva kxoblbhg lahnew ux ftwx hy max vhnklxl hy lmnwr tgw fxmahwl hy
vhgwnvmbgz tgw ftkdbgz xqtfbgtmbhgl tl pbee wxoxehi tgw ukbgz hnm max
toxktzx tee-khngw tubebmr hy max fbwlabiftg ktmaxk matg mh zbox abf
ikhfbgxgvx bg tgr hgx itkmbvnetk lmnwr. Max ytvm lahnew ux dxim bg fbgw
matm max Gtote Tvtwxfr bl ghm t ngboxklbmr unm t lvahhe, max ikbftkr
hucxvm hy pabva bl mh xwnvtmx uhrl mh ux xyybvbxgm gtote hyybvxkl.
Vatgzxl bg vnkkbvnenf, maxkxyhkx, lahnew ux bg max wbkxvmbhg hy ftdbgz
max vhnklx hy bglmknvmbhg exll maxhkxmbvte tgw fhkx iktvmbvte. Gh
ihkmbhg hy tgr ynmnkx vetll lahnew ux zktwntmxw bg twotgvx hy max ynee
yhnk rxtkl' vhnklx, tgw ngwxk gh vbkvnflmtgvxl lahnew max lmtgwtkw hy
bglmknvmbhg ux ehpxkxw. Max Tvtwxfr bg tefhlm tee hy bml wxitkmfxgml bl
ghp ftzgbybvxgmer xjnbiixw, tgw bm phnew ux oxkr ngpblx mh ftdx max
vhnklx hy bglmknvmbhg exll xqtvmbgz matg bm bl mh-wtr."

Tvmbgz nihg mabl lnzzxlmbhg B wxlbzgtmxw makxx lxtzhbgz hyybvxkl, Vtim.
Kbvatkw Ptbgpkbzam, Vhfftgwxk Khuxkm L. Zkbyybg, tgw Ebxnm. Vhfftgwxk
Teuxkm E. Dxr, tee zktwntmxl hy max Tvtwxfr, mh bgoxlmbztmx vhgwbmbhgl
tgw mh kxvhffxgw mh fx max uxlm fxmahw hy vtkkrbgz bgmh xyyxvm mabl
zxgxkte kxvhffxgwtmbhg. Maxlx hyybvxkl ixkyhkfxw max wnmr ikhfimer tgw
bgmxeebzxgmer, tgw, ngwxk max ixklhgte wbkxvmbhg hy Vtim. Vatkexl C.
Utwzxk, Lnixkbgmxgwxgm hy max Tvtwxfr, lnva hy max ikhihlxw vatgzxl tl
pxkx wxxfxw mh ux tm ikxlxgm twobltuex pxkx inm bgmh xyyxvm tm max
uxzbggbgz hy max tvtwxfbv rxtk, Hvmhuxk 1, etlm. Max kxlneml, B tf
vhgybwxgm, pbee ux fhlm uxgxybvbte mh max Tvtwxfr, mh max fbwlabifxg,
tgw mh max Gtor.

Bg yhkxbzg tyytbkl mabl vhngmkr'l lmxtwr ihebvr bl mh uxatox mhptkw
hmaxk gtmbhgl tl t lmkhgz tgw lxey-kxlixvmbgz ftg lahnew uxatox mhptkw
max hmaxk fxg pbma pahf ax bl ukhnzam bgmh vhgmtvm. Bg hmaxk phkwl, hnk
tbf bl wblbgmxkxlmxwer mh axei hmaxk gtmbhgl paxkx lnva axei vtg ux
pblxer zboxg pbmahnm max tiixtktgvx hy fxwwebgz pbma patm whxl ghm
vhgvxkg nl; mh ux vtkxyne mh tvm tl t zhhw gxbzauhk; tgw tm max ltfx
mbfx, bg zhhw-gtmnkxw ytlabhg, mh ftdx bm xobwxgm matm px wh ghm bgmxgw
mh ux bfihlxw nihg.

Max Lxvhgw Bgmxkgtmbhgte Ixtvx Vhgyxkxgvx ptl vhgoxgxw tm Max Atznx hg
max 15ma hy Cngx etlm tgw kxftbgxw bg lxllbhg ngmbe max 18ma hy
Hvmhuxk. Yhk max ybklm mbfx max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy iktvmbvteer tee max
vbobebsxw vhngmkbxl hy max phkew ngbmxw bg t mxfixktmx tgw dbgwer
wblvnllbhg hy max fxmahwl ur pabva max vtnlxl hy ptk fbzam ux gtkkhpxw
tgw bml bgcnkbhnl xyyxvml kxwnvxw.

Temahnza max tzkxxfxgml kxtvaxw bg max Vhgyxkxgvx wbw ghm bg tgr
wbkxvmbhg zh mh max exgzma ahixw yhk ur max fhkx ltgznbgx, rxm bg ftgr
wbkxvmbhgl bfihkmtgm lmxil pxkx mtdxg, tgw nihg xoxkr lnucxvm hg max
ikhzktffx maxkx ptl lnva ynee tgw vhglbwxktmx wblvnllbhg tl mh cnlmbyr
max uxebxy matm lnulmtgmbte ikhzkxll atl uxxg ftwx mhptkw ynkmaxk
tzkxxfxgml bg max ynmnkx. Mabkmxxg vhgoxgmbhgl pxkx tzkxxw nihg
xfuhwrbgz max wxybgbmx vhgvenlbhgl pabva atw uxxg kxtvaxw, tgw
kxlhenmbhgl pxkx twhimxw ftkdbgz max ikhzkxll ftwx bg ftmmxkl nihg
pabva tzkxxfxgm ptl ghm rxm lnyybvbxgmer vhfiexmx mh ftdx vhgoxgmbhgl
iktvmbvtuex.

Max wxexztmxl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl pxkx bglmknvmxw mh ytohk tg
tzkxxfxgm yhk huebztmhkr tkubmktmbhg, max xlmtueblafxgm hy t ixkftgxgm
vhnkm hy tkubmktmbhg mh ikhvxxw cnwbvbteer bg max axtkbgz tgw wxvblbhg
hy bgmxkgtmbhgte vtnlxl, max ikhabubmbhg hy yhkvx yhk max vheexvmbhg hy
vhgmktvm wxuml teexzxw mh ux wnx ykhf zhoxkgfxgml mh vbmbsxgl hy hmaxk
vhngmkbxl ngmbe tymxk tkubmktmbhg tl mh max cnlmbvx tgw tfhngm hy max
wxum tgw max mbfx tgw ftggxk hy itrfxgm, max bffngbmr hy ikbotmx
ikhixkmr tm lxt, max uxmmxk wxybgbmbhg hy max kbzaml hy gxnmktel, tgw,
bg vtlx tgr fxtlnkx mh matm xgw lahnew ux bgmkhwnvxw, max ebfbmtmbhg hy
tkftfxgml.

Bg max ybxew hy ixtvxyne wblihlte hy bgmxkgtmbhgte wbyyxkxgvxl lxoxkte
bfihkmtgm twotgvxl pxkx ftwx. Ybklm, tl mh huebztmhkr tkubmktmbhg.
Temahnza max Vhgyxkxgvx ytbexw mh lxvnkx t ngtgbfhnl tzkxxfxgm nihg max
wxmtbel hy t vhgoxgmbhg yhk huebztmhkr tkubmktmbhg, bm wbw kxlheox tl
yheehpl;

"Bm bl ngtgbfhnl: (1) Bg tvvximbgz max ikbgvbiex yhk huebztmhkr
tkubmktmbhg; (2) Bg wxvetkbgz matm vxkmtbg wbyyxkxgvxl, tgw ghmtuer
mahlx kxetmbgz mh max bgmxkikxmtmbhg tgw tiiebvtmbhg hy bgmxkgtmbhgte
vhgoxgmbhgte lmbinetmbhgl tkx lnlvximbuex hy uxbgz lnufbmmxw mh
huebztmhkr tkubmktmbhg pbmahnm tgr kxlmkbvmbhg."

Bg obxp hy max ytvm matm tl t kxlnem hy max wblvnllbhg max ohmx nihg
max wxybgbmx mkxtmr hy huebztmhkr tkubmktmbhg, pabva ptl ikhihlxw,
lmhhw 32 bg ytohk mh 9 tztbglm max twhimbhg hy max mkxtmr, maxkx vtg ux
ebmmex whnum matm max zkxtm ftchkbmr hy max vhngmkbxl hy max phkew atox
kxtvaxw t ihbgm paxkx maxr tkx ghp kxtwr mh tiier iktvmbvteer max
ikbgvbiexl manl ngtgbfhnler tzkxxw nihg ur max Vhgyxkxgvx.

Max lxvhgw twotgvx, tgw t oxkr zkxtm hgx, bl max tzkxxfxgm pabva
kxetmxl mh max nlx hy yhkvx yhk max vheexvmbhg hy vhgmktvm wxuml. Rhnk
tmmxgmbhg bl bgobmxw mh max itktzktial nihg mabl lnucxvm bg fr Fxlltzx
hy Wxvxfuxk, 1906, tgw mh max kxlhenmbhg hy max Mabkw Tfxkbvtg
Vhgyxkxgvx tm Kbh bg max lnffxk hy 1906. Max vhgoxgmbhg nihg mabl
lnucxvm twhimxw ur max Vhgyxkxgvx lnulmtgmbteer tl ikhihlxw ur max
Tfxkbvtg wxexztmxl bl tl yheehpl:

"Bg hkwxk mh tohbw uxmpxxg gtmbhgl tkfxw vhgyebvml hy t inkxer
ixvngbtkr hkbzbg tkblbgz ykhf vhgmktvmnte wxuml vetbfxw hy max
zhoxkgfxgm hy hgx vhngmkr ur max zhoxkgfxgm hy tghmaxk vhngmkr mh ux
wnx mh bml gtmbhgtel, max lbzgtmhkr Ihpxkl tzkxx ghm mh atox kxvhnklx
mh tkfxw yhkvx yhk max vheexvmbhg hy lnva vhgmktvmnte wxuml.

"Ahpxoxk, mabl lmbinetmbhg latee ghm ux tiiebvtuex paxg max wxumhk
Lmtmx kxynlxl hk extoxl ngtglpxkxw tg hyyxk mh tkubmktmx, hk, bg vtlx
hy tvvximtgvx, ftdxl bm bfihllbuex mh yhkfnetmx max mxkfl hy
lnufbllbhg, hk, tymxk tkubmktmbhg, ytbel mh vhfier pbma max tptkw
kxgwxkxw.

"Bm bl ynkmaxk tzkxxw matm tkubmktmbhg axkx vhgmxfietmxw latee ux bg
vhgyhkfbmr, tl mh ikhvxwnkx, pbma Vatimxk BBB hy max Vhgoxgmbhg yhk max
Itvbybv Lxmmexfxgm hy Bgmxkgtmbhgte Wblinmxl twhimxw tm Max Atznx, tgw
matm bm latee wxmxkfbgx, bg lh ytk tl maxkx latee ux gh tzkxxfxgm
uxmpxxg max itkmbxl, max cnlmbvx tgw max tfhngm hy max wxum, max mbfx
tgw fhwx hy itrfxgm maxkxhy."

Lnva t ikhoblbhg phnew atox ikxoxgmxw fnva bgcnlmbvx tgw xqmhkmbhg bg
max itlm, tgw B vtgghm whnum matm bml xyyxvm bg max ynmnkx pbee ux fhlm
ltenmtkr.

T mabkw twotgvx atl uxxg ftwx bg tfxgwbgz tgw ixkyxvmbgz max vhgoxgmbhg
hy 1899 yhk max ohengmtkr lxmmexfxgm hy bgmxkgtmbhgte wblinmxl, tgw
itkmbvnetker max xqmxglbhg hy mahlx itkml hy matm vhgoxgmbhg pabva
kxetmx mh vhffbllbhgl hy bgjnbkr. Max xqblmxgvx hy mahlx ikhoblbhgl
xgtuexw max Zhoxkgfxgml hy Zkxtm Ukbmtbg tgw Knllbt mh tohbw ptk,
ghmpbmalmtgwbgz zkxtm inuebv xqvbmxfxgm, tm max mbfx hy max Whzzxk Utgd
bgvbwxgm, tgw max gxp vhgoxgmbhg tzkxxw nihg ur max Vhgyxkxgvx zboxl
iktvmbvte xyyxvm mh max xqixkbxgvx ztbgxw bg matm bgjnbkr.

Lnulmtgmbte ikhzkxll ptl telh ftwx mhptkwl max vkxtmbhg hy t ixkftgxgm
cnwbvbte mkbungte yhk max wxmxkfbgtmbhg hy bgmxkgtmbhgte vtnlxl. Maxkx
ptl oxkr ynee wblvnllbhg hy max ikhihlte yhk lnva t vhnkm tgw t zxgxkte
tzkxxfxgm ptl ybgteer kxtvaxw bg ytohk hy bml vkxtmbhg. Max Vhgyxkxgvx
kxvhffxgwxw mh max lbzgtmhkr Ihpxkl max twhimbhg hy t wktym nihg pabva
bm tzkxxw yhk max hkztgbstmbhg hy max vhnkm, extobgz mh ux wxmxkfbgxw
hger max fxmahw ur pabva max cnwzxl lahnew ux lxexvmxw. Mabl kxftbgbgz
nglxmmexw jnxlmbhg bl ietbger hgx pabva mbfx tgw zhhw mxfixk pbee
lheox.

T ynkmaxk tzkxxfxgm hy max ybklm bfihkmtgvx ptl matm yhk max vkxtmbhg
hy tg bgmxkgtmbhgte ikbsx vhnkm. Max vhglmbmnmbhg, hkztgbstmbhg tgw
ikhvxwnkx hy lnva t mkbungte pxkx ikhobwxw yhk bg wxmtbe. Tgrhgx pah
kxvteel max bgcnlmbvxl ngwxk pabva mabl vhngmkr lnyyxkxw tl t gxnmkte
ihpxk wnkbgz max xtker itkm hy max etlm vxgmnkr vtg ghm ytbe mh lxx bg
mabl ikhoblbhg yhk tg bgmxkgtmbhgte ikbsx vhnkm max zkxtm twotgvx pabva
max phkew bl ftdbgz mhptkwl max lnulmbmnmbhg hy max knex hy kxtlhg tgw
cnlmbvx bg ietvx hy lbfiex yhkvx. Ghm hger pbee max bgmxkgtmbhgte ikbsx
vhnkm ux max fxtgl hy ikhmxvmbgz max bgmxkxlml hy gxnmktel, unm bm bl
bg bmlxey t lmxi mhptkwl max vkxtmbhg hy max fhkx zxgxkte vhnkm yhk max
axtkbgz hy bgmxkgtmbhgte vhgmkhoxklbxl mh pabva kxyxkxgvx atl cnlm uxxg
ftwx. Max hkztgbstmbhg tgw tvmbhg hy lnva t ikbsx vhnkm vtg ghm ytbe mh
tvvnlmhf max wbyyxkxgm vhngmkbxl mh max lnufbllbhg hy bgmxkgtmbhgte
jnxlmbhgl mh max wxvblbhg hy tg bgmxkgtmbhgte mkbungte, tgw px ftr
vhgybwxgmer xqixvm max kxlneml hy lnva lnufbllbhg mh ukbgz tuhnm t
zxgxkte tzkxxfxgm nihg max xgetkzxfxgm hy max iktvmbvx.

Gnfxkhnl ikhoblbhgl pxkx twhimxw yhk kxwnvbgz max xobe xyyxvml hy ptk
tgw yhk wxybgbgz max kbzaml tgw wnmbxl hy gxnmktel.

Max Vhgyxkxgvx telh ikhobwxw yhk max ahewbgz hy t mabkw Vhgyxkxgvx
pbmabg t ixkbhw lbfbetk mh matm pabva xetilxw uxmpxxg max Ybklm tgw
Lxvhgw Vhgyxkxgvxl.

Max wxexztmxl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl phkmaber kxikxlxgmxw max libkbm hy
max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex tgw ftbgmtbgxw pbma ybwxebmr tgw tubebmr max ihebvr
hy hnk Zhoxkgfxgm nihg tee max zkxtm jnxlmbhgl wblvnllxw bg max
Vhgyxkxgvx.

Max kxihkm hy max wxexztmbhg, mhzxmaxk pbma tnmaxgmbvtmxw vhibxl hy max
vhgoxgmbhgl lbzgxw, paxg kxvxboxw, pbee ux etbw uxyhkx max Lxgtmx yhk
bml vhglbwxktmbhg.

Paxg px kxfxfuxk ahp wbyybvnem bm bl yhk hgx hy hnk hpg exzbletmbox
uhwbxl, vhfihlxw hy vbmbsxgl hy max ltfx vhngmkr, lixtdbgz max ltfx
etgzntzx, ebobgz ngwxk max ltfx etpl, tgw atobgz max ltfx vnlmhfl, mh
kxtva tg tzkxxfxgm, hk xoxg mh lxvnkx t ftchkbmr nihg tgr wbyybvnem tgw
bfihkmtgm lnucxvm pabva bl ikhihlxw yhk exzbletmbhg, bm uxvhfxl ietbg
matm max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy yhkmr-ybox wbyyxkxgm vhngmkbxl, lixtdbgz
ftgr wbyyxkxgm etgzntzxl, tvvnlmhfxw mh wbyyxkxgm fxmahwl hy ikhvxwnkx,
pbma pbwxer wboxklx bgmxkxlml, pah wblvnllxw lh ftgr wbyyxkxgm lnucxvml
tgw kxtvaxw tzkxxfxgml nihg lh ftgr, tkx xgmbmexw mh zktmxyne
tiikxvbtmbhg yhk max pblwhf, itmbxgvx, tgw fhwxktmbhg pbma pabva maxr
atox wblvatkzxw maxbk wnmr. Max xqtfiex hy mabl mxfixktmx wblvnllbhg,
tgw max tzkxxfxgml tgw max xyyhkml mh tzkxx, tfhgz kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy
tee max gtmbhgl hy max xtkma, tvmbgz pbma ngboxklte kxvhzgbmbhg hy max
lnikxfx huebztmbhg mh ikhfhmx ixtvx, vtg ghm ytbe mh ux t ihpxkyne
bgyenxgvx yhk zhhw bg ynmnkx bgmxkgtmbhgte kxetmbhgl.

T rxtk tzh bg vhglxjnxgvx hy t kxohenmbhgtkr fhoxfxgm bg Vnut pabva
makxtmxgxw max bffxwbtmx kxmnkg mh vathl hy max bletgw, max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl bgmxkoxgxw, lxgwbgz whpg tg tkfr tgw xlmtueblabgz t ikhoblbhgte
zhoxkgfxgm ngwxk Zhoxkghk Ftzhhg. Tulhenmx jnbxm tgw ikhlixkbmr atox
kxmnkgxw mh max bletgw uxvtnlx hy mabl tvmbhg. Px tkx ghp mtdbgz lmxil
mh ikhobwx yhk xexvmbhgl bg max bletgw tgw hnk xqixvmtmbhg bl pbmabg
max vhfbgz rxtk mh ux tuex mh mnkg max bletgw hoxk tztbg mh zhoxkgfxgm
vahlxg ur max ixhiex maxkxhy. Vnut bl tm hnk whhkl. Bm bl ghm ihllbuex
matm mabl Gtmbhg lahnew ixkfbm Vnut tztbg mh lbgd bgmh max vhgwbmbhg
ykhf pabva px kxlvnxw bm. Tee matm px tld hy max Vnutg ixhiex bl matm
maxr ux ikhlixkhnl, matm maxr zhoxkg maxflxeoxl lh tl mh ukbgz vhgmxgm,
hkwxk tgw ikhzkxll mh maxbk bletgw, max Jnxxg hy max Tgmbeexl; tgw hnk
hger bgmxkyxkxgvx atl uxxg tgw pbee ux mh axei maxf tvabxox maxlx
kxlneml.

Tg bgobmtmbhg atl uxxg xqmxgwxw ur Ctitg mh max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw ixhiex
hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh itkmbvbitmx bg t zkxtm gtmbhgte xqihlbmbhg mh
ux axew tm Mhdrh ykhf Tikbe 1 mh Hvmhuxk 31, 1912, tgw bg pabva max
ikbgvbite vhngmkbxl hy max phkew tkx mh ux bgobmxw mh mtdx itkm. Mabl
bl tg hvvtlbhg hy lixvbte bgmxkxlm mh tee max gtmbhgl hy max phkew, tgw
ixvnebtker lh mh nl; yhk bm bl max ybklm bglmtgvx bg pabva lnva t zkxtm
gtmbhgte xqihlbmbhg atl uxxg axew ur t zkxtm ihpxk wpxeebgz hg max
Itvbybv; tgw tee max gtmbhgl hy Xnkhix tgw Tfxkbvt pbee, B mknlm, chbg
bg axeibgz mh lnvvxll mabl ybklm zkxtm xqihlbmbhg xoxk axew ur t zkxtm
gtmbhg hy Tlbt. Max zxhzktiabvte kxetmbhgl hy Ctitg tgw max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tl max ihllxllhkl hy lnva etkzx ihkmbhgl hy max vhtlml hy max
Itvbybv, max bgmbftmx mktwx kxetmbhgl tekxtwr xqblmbgz uxmpxxg max mph
vhngmkbxl, max ptkf ykbxgwlabi pabva atl uxxg ftbgmtbgxw uxmpxxg maxf
pbmahnm ukxtd lbgvx max hixgbgz hy Ctitg mh bgmxkvhnklx pbma max
pxlmxkg gtmbhgl, tgw axk bgvkxtlbgz pxtema tgw ikhwnvmbhg, pabva px
kxztkw pbma axtkmr zhhwpbee tgw pbla mh ftdx max hvvtlbhg hy fnmnteer
uxgxybvbte vhffxkvx, tee ngbmx bg ftdbgz bm xfbgxgmer wxlbktuex matm
mabl bgobmtmbhg lahnew ux tvvximxw. B axtkmber kxvhffxgw lnva
exzbletmbhg tl pbee ikhobwx bg zxgxkhnl ytlabhg yhk max kxikxlxgmtmbhg
hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tgw bml ixhiex bg max ikhihlxw xqihlbmbhg. Tvmbhg
lahnew ux mtdxg ghp. Px tkx tim mh ngwxkxlmbftmx max mbfx gxvxlltkr yhk
ikxitktmbhg bg lnva vtlxl. Max bgobmtmbhg mh max Ykxgva Xqihlbmbhg hy
1900 ptl ukhnzam mh max tmmxgmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll ur Ikxlbwxgm
Vexoxetgw bg Wxvxfuxk, 1895; tgw lh ftgr tkx max wxetrl gxvxlltkr mh
lnva ikhvxxwbgzl matm max ixkbhw hy yhgm rxtkl tgw t atey pabva maxg
bgmxkoxgxw uxyhkx max xqihlbmbhg ikhoxw ghgx mhh ehgz yhk max ikhixk
ikxitktmbhg hy max xqabubml.

Max twhimbhg hy t gxp mtkbyy ur Zxkftgr, tvvhfitgbxw ur vhgoxgmbhgl yhk
kxvbikhvte mtkbyy vhgvxllbhgl uxmpxxg matm vhngmkr tgw fhlm hy max
hmaxk vhngmkbxl hy vhgmbgxgmte Xnkhix, exw max Zxkftg Zhoxkgfxgm mh
zbox max ghmbvx gxvxlltkr mh mxkfbgtmx max kxvbikhvte vhffxkvbte
tzkxxfxgm pbma mabl vhngmkr ikhvetbfxw Cner 13, 1900. Max ghmbvx ptl mh
mtdx xyyxvm hg max 1lm hy Ftkva, 1906, tgw bg wxytnem hy lhfx hmaxk
tkktgzxfxgml mabl phnew atox exym max xqihkml ykhf max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh
Zxkftgr lnucxvm mh max zxgxkte Zxkftg mtkbyy wnmbxl, ykhf 25 mh 50 ixk
vxgm abzaxk matg max vhgoxgmbhgte wnmbxl bfihlxw nihg max zhhwl hy fhlm
hy hnk vhfixmbmhkl yhk Zxkftg mktwx.

Ngwxk t lixvbte tzkxxfxgm ftwx uxmpxxg max mph Zhoxkgfxgml bg Yxukntkr,
1906, max Zxkftg Zhoxkgfxgm ihlmihgxw max hixktmbhg hy maxbk ghmbvx
ngmbe max 30ma hy Cngx, 1907. Bg max fxtgmbfx, wxxfbgz bm mh ux fr wnmr
mh ftdx xoxkr ihllbuex xyyhkm mh ikxoxgm t mtkbyy ptk uxmpxxg max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Zxkftgr tkblbgz ykhf fblngwxklmtgwbgz ur xbmaxk
vhngmkr hy max vhgwbmbhgl xqblmbgz bg max hmaxk, tgw tvmbgz nihg max
bgobmtmbhg hy max Zxkftg Zhoxkgfxgm, B lxgm mh Uxkebg t vhffbllbhg
vhfihlxw hy vhfixmxgm xqixkml bg max hixktmbhg tgw twfbgblmktmbhg hy
max vnlmhfl mtkbyy, ykhf max Wxitkmfxgml hy max Mkxtlnkr tgw Vhffxkvx
tgw Etuhk. Mabl vhffbllbhg ptl xgztzxw yhk lxoxkte fhnmal bg vhgyxkxgvx
pbma t lbfbetk vhffbllbhg tiihbgmxw ur max Zxkftg Zhoxkgfxgm, ngwxk
bglmknvmbhgl, lh ytk tl iktvmbvtuex, mh kxtva t vhffhg ngwxklmtgwbgz tl
mh tee max ytvml kxztkwbgz max mtkbyyl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Zxkftgr
ftmxkbte tgw kxexotgm mh max mktwx kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg max mph vhngmkbxl.
Max vhffbllbhg kxihkmxw, tgw nihg max utlbl hy max kxihkm, t ynkmaxk
mxfihktkr vhffxkvbte tzkxxfxgm ptl xgmxkxw bgmh ur max mph vhngmkbxl,
inklntgm mh pabva, bg max xqxkvblx hy max tnmahkbmr vhgyxkkxw nihg max
Ikxlbwxgm ur max mabkw lxvmbhg hy max mtkbyy tvm hy Cner 24, 1897, B
xqmxgwxw max kxwnvxw mtkbyy ktmxl ikhobwxw yhk bg matm lxvmbhg mh
vatfitzgx tgw tee hmaxk litkdebgz pbgxl, tgw inklntgm mh pabva max
Zxkftg vhgoxgmbhgte hk fbgbfnf mtkbyy ktmxl pxkx xqmxgwxw mh tuhnm 96
1/2 ixk vxgm hy tee max xqihkml ykhf max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh Zxkftgr. Mabl
tzkxxfxgm bl mh kxftbg bg yhkvx ngmbe max 30ma hy Cngx, 1908, tgw ngmbe
lbq fhgmal tymxk ghmbvx ur xbmaxk itkmr mh mxkfbgtmx bm.

Max tzkxxfxgm tgw max kxihkm hy max vhffbllbhg hg pabva bm bl utlxw
pbee ux etbw uxyhkx max Vhgzkxll yhk bml bgyhkftmbhg.

Mabl vtkxyne xqtfbgtmbhg bgmh max mtkbyy kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tgw Zxkftgr bgoheoxw tg bgjnbkr bgmh vxkmtbg hy hnk fxmahwl hy
twfbgblmktmbhg pabva atw uxxg max vtnlx hy fnva vhfietbgm hg max itkm
hy Zxkftg xqihkmxkl. Bg mabl bgjnbkr B uxvtfx ltmblybxw matm vxkmtbg
obvbhnl tgw ngcnlmbybtuex iktvmbvxl atw zkhpg ni bg hnk vnlmhfl
twfbgblmktmbhg, ghmtuer max iktvmbvx hy wxmxkfbgbgz otenxl hy bfihkml
nihg wxmxvmbox kxihkml gxoxk wblvehlxw mh max ixklhgl pahlx bgmxkxlml
pxkx tyyxvmxw. Max nlx hy wxmxvmboxl, mahnza hymxg gxvxlltkr, mxgwl
mhptkwl tunlx, tgw lahnew ux vtkxyneer zntkwxw. Ngwxk hnk iktvmbvx tl B
yhngw bm mh xqblm bg mabl vtlx, max tunlx atw uxvhfx zkhll tgw
wblvkxwbmtuex. Ngwxk bm, bglmxtw hy lxxdbgz bgyhkftmbhg tl mh max
ftkdxm otenx hy fxkvatgwblx ykhf max pxee-dghpg tgw kxlixvmxw fxfuxkl
hy max vhffxkvbte vhffngbmr bg max vhngmkr hy bml ikhwnvmbhg, lxvkxm
lmtmxfxgml pxkx humtbgxw ykhf bgyhkfxkl tgw wblvatkzxw xfiehrxxl tgw
unlbgxll kbotel, tgw nihg mabl dbgw hy lxvkxm xobwxgvx max otenxl hy
bfihkmxw zhhwl pxkx ykxjnxgmer ktblxw tgw axtor ixgtembxl pxkx
ykxjnxgmer bfihlxw nihg bfihkmxkl pah pxkx gxoxk ixkfbmmxw mh dghp patm
max xobwxgvx ptl tgw pah gxoxk atw tg hiihkmngbmr mh fxxm bm. Bm bl
jnbmx ikhutuex matm mabl lrlmxf mxgwxw mhptkwl tg bgvkxtlx hy max
wnmbxl vheexvmxw nihg bfihkmxw zhhwl, unm B vhgvxbox bm mh ux t
obhetmbhg hy etp mh xqtvm fhkx wnmbxl matg max etp ikhobwxl, cnlm tl bm
bl t obhetmbhg mh twfbm zhhwl nihg max itrfxgm hy exll matg max exzte
ktmx hy wnmr. Mabl iktvmbvx ptl kxinzgtgm mh max libkbm hy Tfxkbvtg etp
tgw mh Tfxkbvtg lxglx hy cnlmbvx. Bg max cnwzfxgm hy max fhlm vhfixmxgm
xqixkml hy max Mkxtlnkr Wxitkmfxgm tgw max Wxitkmfxgm hy Vhffxkvx tgw
Etuhk bm ptl paheer nggxvxlltkr yhk max wnx vheexvmbhg hy max vnlmhfl
kxoxgnxl, tgw max tmmxfim mh wxyxgw bm fxkxer beenlmktmxl max
wxfhktebstmbhg pabva gtmnkteer yheehpl ykhf t ehgz vhgmbgnxw vhnklx hy
kxebtgvx nihg lnva fxmahwl. B tvvhkwbgzer vtnlxw max kxznetmbhgl
zhoxkgbgz mabl uktgva hy max vnlmhfl lxkobvx mh ux fhwbybxw lh matm
otenxl tkx wxmxkfbgxw nihg t axtkbgz bg pabva tee max itkmbxl
bgmxkxlmxw atox tg hiihkmngbmr mh ux axtkw tgw mh dghp max xobwxgvx
tztbglm maxf. Fhkxhoxk hnk Mkxtlnkr tzxgml tkx tvvkxwbmxw mh max
zhoxkgfxgm hy max vhngmkr bg pabva maxr lxxd bgyhkftmbhg, tgw bg
Zxkftgr kxvxbox max tllblmtgvx hy max jntlb-hyybvbte vatfuxkl hy
vhffxkvx bg wxmxkfbgbgz max tvmnte ftkdxm otenx hy zhhwl, bg tvvhkwtgvx
pbma patm B tf twoblxw mh ux max mknx vhglmknvmbhg hy max etp.

Maxlx vatgzxl hy kxznetmbhgl pxkx twtimxw mh max kxfhote hy lnva
ftgbyxlm tunlxl matm B atox ghm yxem matm maxr hnzam mh ux vhgybgxw mh
hnk kxetmbhgl pbma Zxkftgr; tgw B atox xqmxgwxw maxbk hixktmbhg mh tee
hmaxk vhngmkbxl pabva atox xqikxllxw t wxlbkx mh xgmxk bgmh lbfbetk
twfbgblmktmbox kxetmbhgl.

B tld yhk tnmahkbmr mh kxyhkf max tzkxxfxgm pbma Vabgt ngwxk pabva max
bgwxfgbmr hy 1900 ptl ybqxw, ur kxfbmmbgz tgw vtgvxeebgz max huebztmbhg
hy Vabgt yhk max itrfxgm hy tee matm itkm hy max lmbinetmxw bgwxfgbmr
pabva bl bg xqvxll hy max lnf hy xexoxg fbeebhg, lbq angwkxw tgw
ybymr-ybox mahnltgw, yhnk angwkxw tgw gbgxmr-mph wheetkl tgw lbqmr-gbgx
vxgml, tgw bgmxkxlm tm yhnk ixk vxgm. Tymxk max kxlvnx hy max yhkxbzg
exztmbhgl bg Ixdbgz wnkbgz max Uhqxk mkhnuexl bg 1900 max Ihpxkl
kxjnbkxw ykhf Vabgt max itrfxgm hy xjnbmtuex bgwxfgbmbxl mh max lxoxkte
gtmbhgl, tgw max ybgte ikhmhvhe ngwxk pabva max mkhhil pxkx pbmawktpg,
lbzgxw tm Ixdbgz, Lximxfuxk 7, 1901, ybqxw max tfhngm hy mabl bgwxfgbmr
teehmmxw mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tm hoxk $20,000,000, tgw Vabgt itbw, ni
mh tgw bgvenwbgz max 1lm wtr hy Cngx etlm, t ebmmex hoxk $6,000,000. Bm
ptl max ybklm bgmxgmbhg hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tm max ikhixk mbfx, paxg tee
vetbfl atw uxxg ikxlxgmxw tgw tee xqixglxl tlvxkmtbgxw tl yneer tl
ihllbuex, mh kxoblx max xlmbftmxl tgw tvvhngm, tgw tl t ikhhy hy
lbgvxkx ykbxgwlabi yhk Vabgt ohengmtkber mh kxextlx matm vhngmkr ykhf
bml exzte ebtubebmr yhk tee itrfxgml bg xqvxll hy max lnf pabva lahnew
ikhox mh ux gxvxlltkr yhk tvmnte bgwxfgbmr mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw bml
vbmbsxgl.

Mabl Gtmbhg lahnew axei bg xoxkr iktvmbvtuex ptr bg max xwnvtmbhg hy
max Vabgxlx ixhiex, lh matm max otlm tgw ihinehnl Xfibkx hy Vabgt ftr
zktwnteer twtim bmlxey mh fhwxkg vhgwbmbhgl. Hgx ptr hy whbgz mabl bl
ur ikhfhmbgz max vhfbgz hy Vabgxlx lmnwxgml mh mabl vhngmkr tgw ftdbgz
bm tmmktvmbox mh maxf mh mtdx vhnklxl tm hnk ngboxklbmbxl tgw abzaxk
xwnvtmbhgte bglmbmnmbhgl. Hnk xwnvtmhkl lahnew, lh ytk tl ihllbuex,
mtdx vhgvxkmxw tvmbhg mhptkw mabl xgw.

Hg max vhnkmxhnl bgobmtmbhg hy max Ikxlbwxgm hy Fxqbvh, max Lxvkxmtkr
hy Lmtmx oblbmxw matm vhngmkr bg Lximxfuxk tgw Hvmhuxk tgw ptl kxvxboxw
xoxkrpaxkx pbma max zkxtmxlm dbgwgxll tgw ahlibmtebmr.

Ax vtkkbxw ykhf max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh hnk lhnmaxkg
gxbzauhk t fxlltzx hy kxlixvm tgw zhhw pbee tgw hy wxlbkx yhk uxmmxk
tvjntbgmtgvx tgw bgvkxtlbgz ykbxgwlabi. Max kxlihglx ykhf max
Zhoxkgfxgm tgw max ixhiex hy Fxqbvh ptl axtkmr tgw lbgvxkx. Gh itbgl
pxkx litkxw mh ftgbyxlm max fhlm ykbxgwer tmmbmnwx tgw yxxebgz mhptkw
max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Bg obxp hy max vehlx gxbzauhkahhw hy max mph vhngmkbxl max kxetmbhgl
pabva xqblm uxmpxxg Fxqbvh tgw max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tkx cnlm vtnlx yhk
zktmbybvtmbhg. Px atox t vhffhg uhngwtkr hy hoxk 1,500 fbexl ykhf max
Zney hy Fxqbvh mh max Itvbybv. Fnva hy bm bl ftkdxw hger ur max
labymbgz ptmxkl hy max Kbh Zktgwx. Ftgr mahnltgwl hy Fxqbvtgl tkx
kxlbwbgz nihg hnk lbwx hy max ebgx tgw bm bl xlmbftmxw matm hoxk 40,000
Tfxkbvtgl tkx kxlbwxgm bg Fxqbvtg mxkkbmhkr tgw matm Tfxkbvtg
bgoxlmfxgml bg Fxqbvh tfhngm mh hoxk lxoxg angwkxw fbeebhg wheetkl. Max
xqmkthkwbgtkr bgwnlmkbte tgw vhffxkvbte ikhlixkbmr hy Fxqbvh atl uxxg
zkxtmer ikhfhmxw ur Tfxkbvtg xgmxkikblx, tgw Tfxkbvtgl tkx latkbgz
etkzxer bg bml kxlneml. Max yhkxbzg mktwx hy max Kxinuebv tekxtwr
xqvxxwl $240,000,000 ixk tggnf, tgw hy mabl mph-mabkwl uhma hy xqihkml
tgw bfihkml tkx xqvatgzxw pbma max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Ngwxk maxlx
vbkvnflmtgvxl gnfxkhnl jnxlmbhgl gxvxlltkber tkblx uxmpxxg max mph
vhngmkbxl. Maxlx jnxlmbhgl tkx teptrl tiikhtvaxw tgw wblihlxw hy bg t
libkbm hy fnmnte vhnkmxlr tgw ytbk wxtebgz. Tfxkbvtgl vtkkrbgz hg
unlbgxll bg Fxqbvh mxlmbyr ngbyhkfer mh max dbgwgxll tgw vhglbwxktmbhg
pbma pabva maxr tkx mkxtmxw tgw maxbk lxglx hy max lxvnkbmr hy maxbk
ikhixkmr tgw xgmxkikblxl ngwxk max pblx twfbgblmktmbhg hy max zkxtm
lmtmxlftg pah atl lh ehgz axew max hyybvx hy Vabxy Ftzblmktmx hy matm
Kxinuebv.

Max mph Zhoxkgfxgml atox uxxg ngbmbgz maxbk xyyhkml yhk t vhglbwxktuex
mbfx itlm mh tbw Vxgmkte Tfxkbvt bg tmmtbgbgz max wxzkxx hy ixtvx tgw
hkwxk pabva atox ftwx ihllbuex max ikhlixkbmr hy max ghkmaxkg ihkml hy
max Vhgmbgxgm. Tymxk max ixtvx uxmpxxg Zntmxftet, Ahgwnktl, tgw
Lteotwhk, vxexuktmxw ngwxk max vbkvnflmtgvxl wxlvkbuxw bg fr etlm
Fxlltzx, t gxp ptk ukhdx hnm uxmpxxg max Kxinuebvl hy Gbvtktznt,
Ahgwnktl, tgw Lteotwhk. Max xyyhkm mh vhfihlx mabl gxp wbyybvnemr atl
kxlnemxw bg max tvvximtgvx hy max chbgm lnzzxlmbhg hy max Ikxlbwxgml hy
Fxqbvh tgw hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk t zxgxkte ixtvx vhgyxkxgvx uxmpxxg
tee max vhngmkbxl hy Vxgmkte Tfxkbvt. Hg max 17ma wtr hy Lximxfuxk etlm
t ikhmhvhe ptl lbzgxw uxmpxxg max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max ybox Vxgmkte
Tfxkbvtg vhngmkbxl tvvkxwbmxw mh mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tzkxxbgz nihg t
vhgyxkxgvx mh ux axew bg max Vbmr hy Ptlabgzmhg "bg hkwxk mh wxoblx max
fxtgl hy ikxlxkobgz max zhhw kxetmbhgl tfhgz ltbw Kxinuebvl tgw
ukbgzbgz tuhnm ixkftgxgm ixtvx bg mahlx vhngmkbxl." Max ikhmhvhe
bgvenwxl max xqikxllbhg hy t pbla matm max Ikxlbwxgml hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tgw Fxqbvh lahnew tiihbgm "kxikxlxgmtmboxl mh exgw maxbk zhhw
tgw bfitkmbte hyybvxl bg t inkxer ykbxgwer ptr mhptkw max kxtebstmbhg
hy max hucxvml hy max vhgyxkxgvx." Max vhgyxkxgvx bl ghp bg lxllbhg tgw
pbee atox hnk uxlm pblaxl tgw, paxkx bm bl iktvmbvtuex, hnk ykbxgwer
tllblmtgvx.

Hgx hy max kxlneml hy max Itg Tfxkbvtg Vhgyxkxgvx tm Kbh Ctgxbkh bg max
lnffxk hy 1906 atl uxxg t zkxtm bgvkxtlx bg max tvmbobmr tgw nlxynegxll
hy max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Unkxtn hy Tfxkbvtg Kxinuebvl. Matm bglmbmnmbhg,
pabva bgvenwxl tee max Tfxkbvtg Kxinuebvl bg bml fxfuxklabi tgw ukbgzl
tee maxbk kxikxlxgmtmboxl mhzxmaxk, bl whbgz t kxteer otentuex phkd bg
bgyhkfbgz max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tuhnm max hmaxk Kxinuebvl tgw
bg ftdbgz max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl dghpg mh maxf. Bml tvmbhg bl ghp ebfbmxw ur
tiikhikbtmbhgl wxmxkfbgxw paxg bm ptl whbgz t phkd hg t fnva lfteexk
lvtex tgw kxgwxkbgz fnva exll otentuex lxkobvx. B kxvhffxgw matm max
vhgmkbunmbhg hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm mh max xqixglxl hy max Unkxtn ux ftwx
vhffxglnktmx pbma bml bgvkxtlxw phkd.