Rw. Anhj Uwjxnijsy, Rw. Xujfpjw, Rjrgjwx tk ymj Xjsfyj fsi ymj Mtzxj tk
Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

N bnxm jfhm fsi jajwd tsj tk dtz f ajwd mfuud Sjb Djfw.

Fx ymj Htslwjxx wjfxxjrgqjx, ymj nrufhy tk bfw fgwtfi rfpjx ny sfyzwfq yt
fuuwtfhm "ymj xyfyj tk ymj zsnts" ymwtzlm f inxhzxxnts tk ktwjnls fkkfnwx.

Gzy ny nx nrutwyfsy ymfy ymtxj bmt mjfw fsi wjfi ymnx rjxxflj xmtzqi ns st
bfd htskzxj ymfy fuuwtfhm bnym fsd ymtzlmy ymfy tzw Ltajwsrjsy nx
fgfsitsnsl, tw jajs tajwqttpnsl, ymj lwjfy xnlsnknhfshj tk nyx itrjxynh
utqnhnjx.

Ymj xthnfq fsi jhtstrnh ktwhjx bmnhm mfaj gjjs rnxrfsflji fgwtfi zsynq ymjd
mfaj wjxzqyji ns wjatqzynts, inhyfytwxmnu fsi bfw fwj ymj xfrj fx ymtxj
bmnhm bj mjwj fwj xywzllqnsl yt fiozxy ujfhjkzqqd fy mtrj.

Dtz fwj bjqq fbfwj ymfy inhyfytwxmnux--fsi ymj umnqtxtumd tk ktwhj ymfy
ozxynknjx fsi fhhtrufsnjx inhyfytwxmnux--mfaj twnlnsfyji ns fqrtxy jajwd
hfxj ns ymj sjhjxxnyd ktw iwfxynh fhynts yt nruwtaj nsyjwsfq htsinyntsx ns
uqfhjx bmjwj ijrthwfynh fhynts ktw tsj wjfxts tw fstymjw mfx kfnqji yt
wjxutsi yt rtijws sjjix fsi rtijws ijrfsix.

Ny bfx bnym kfw-xnlmyji bnxitr ymfy ymj kwfrjwx tk tzw Htsxynyzynts gwtzlmy
ytljymjw ns tsj rflsnknhjsy umwfxj ymwjj lwjfy htshjuyx--"htrrts ijkjsxj,"
"ljsjwfq bjqkfwj" fsi "itrjxynh ywfsvznqnyd."

Rtwj ymfs f hjsyzwd fsi f mfqk qfyjw bj, bmt fwj mjwj ytifd, xynqq gjqnjaj
bnym ymjr ymfy tzw gjxy ijkjsxj nx ymj uwtrtynts tk tzw ljsjwfq bjqkfwj fsi
itrjxynh ywfsvznqqnyd.

Ns uwjantzx rjxxfljx yt ymj Htslwjxx N mfaj wjujfyjiqd bfwsji ymfy, bmjymjw
bj qnpj ny tw sty, ymj ifnqd qnajx tk Frjwnhfs hnynejsx bnqq, tk sjhjxxnyd,
kjjq ymj xmthp tk jajsyx ts tymjw htsynsjsyx. Ymnx nx st qtsljw rjwj
ymjtwd; gjhfzxj ny mfx gjjs ijknsnyjqd uwtaji yt zx gd ymj kfhyx tk
djxyjwifd fsi ytifd.

Yt xfd ymfy ymj itrjxynh bjqq-gjnsl tk tsj mzsiwji fsi ymnwyd rnqqnts
Frjwnhfsx nx ijjuqd fkkjhyji gd ymj bjqq-gjnsl tw ymj nqq-gjnsl tk ymj
utuzqfyntsx tk tymjw sfyntsx nx tsqd yt wjhtlsnej ns btwqi fkkfnwx ymj
ywzym ymfy bj fqq fhhjuy ns mtrj fkkfnwx.

Nk ns fsd qthfq zsny--f hnyd, htzsyd, Xyfyj tw wjlnts--qtb xyfsifwix tk
qnansl fwj ujwrnyyji yt htsynszj, ymj qjajq tk ymj hnanqnefynts tk ymj
jsynwj sfynts bnqq gj uzqqji itbsbfwi.

Ymj nijsynhfq uwnshnuqj jcyjsix yt ymj wjxy tk ymj hnanqneji btwqi. Gzy
ymjwj fwj ymtxj bmt bnxmkzqqd nsxnxy, ns nssthjshj tw nlstwfshj tw gtym,
ymfy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk Frjwnhf fx f xjqk-htsyfnsji zsny hfs qnaj mfuunqd
fsi uwtxujwtzxqd, nyx kzyzwj xjhzwj, nsxnij f mnlm bfqq tk nxtqfynts bmnqj,
tzyxnij, ymj wjxy tk Hnanqnefynts fsi ymj htrrjwhj fsi hzqyzwj tk rfspnsi
fwj xmfyyjwji.

N hfs zsijwxyfsi ymj kjjqnslx tk ymtxj bmt bfws ymj sfynts ymfy ymjd bnqq
sjajw flfns htsxjsy yt ymj xjsinsl tk Frjwnhfs dtzym yt knlmy ts ymj xtnq
tk Jzwtuj. Gzy, fx N wjrjrgjw, stgtid mfx fxpji ymjr yt htsxjsy--ktw stgtid
jcujhyx xzhm fs zsijwyfpnsl.

Ymj tajwbmjqrnsl rfotwnyd tk tzw kjqqtb hnynejsx it sty fgfsits ns ymj
xqnlmyjxy ymjnw mtuj fsi ymjnw jcujhyfynts ymfy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bnqq sty
gjhtrj nsatqaji ns rnqnyfwd ufwynhnufynts ns ymjxj bfwx.

N hfs fqxt zsijwxyfsi ymj bnxmkzqsjxx tk ymtxj bmt tajwxnruqnkd ymj bmtqj
xnyzfynts gd wjujfynsl ymfy fqq bj mfaj yt it nx yt rnsi tzw tbs gzxnsjxx
fsi pjju ymj sfynts tzy tk bfw. Gzy ymjwj nx f afxy inkkjwjshj gjybjjs
pjjunsl tzy tk bfw fsi uwjyjsinsl ymfy ymnx bfw nx stsj tk tzw gzxnsjxx.

Bj it sty mfaj yt lt yt bfw bnym tymjw sfyntsx, gzy fy qjfxy bj hfs xywnaj
bnym tymjw sfyntsx yt jshtzwflj ymj pnsi tk ujfhj ymfy bnqq qnlmyjs ymj
ywtzgqjx tk ymj btwqi, fsi gd xt itnsl mjqu tzw tbs sfynts fx bjqq.

N fxp ymfy fqq tk zx jajwdbmjwj ymnsp ymnslx ymwtzlm bnym ymj xnslqj fnr tk
mtb gjxy yt xjwaj ymj kzyzwj tk tzw tbs sfynts. N it sty rjfs rjwjqd nyx
kzyzwj wjqfyntsxmnu bnym ymj tzyxnij btwqi. N rjfs nyx itrjxynh kzyzwj fx
bjqq--ymj btwp, ymj xjhzwnyd, ymj uwtxujwnyd, ymj mfuunsjxx, ymj qnkj tk fqq
ymj gtdx fsi lnwqx ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fx ymjd fwj nsjanyfgqd fkkjhyji gd
xzhm btwqi wjqfyntsxmnux. Ktw ny gjhtrjx hqjfwjw fsi hqjfwjw ymfy ymj
kzyzwj btwqi bnqq gj f xmfggd fsi ifsljwtzx uqfhj yt qnaj ns--djx, jajs ktw
Frjwnhfsx yt qnaj ns--nk ny nx wzqji gd ktwhj ns ymj mfsix tk f kjb.

Fqwjfid ymj hwfxm tk xbnkyqd rtansl jajsyx tajw ymj jfwym mfx rfij zx fqq
ymnsp bnym f qtsljw anjb. Ktwyzsfyjqd, ymfy ymnspnsl hfssty gj htsywtqqji
gd ufwynxfsxmnu. Ymj ynrj nx qtsl ufxy bmjs fsd utqnynhfq ufwyd tw fsd
ufwynhzqfw lwtzu hfs hzwwd tw hfuyzwj uzgqnh kfatw gd qfgjqnsl nyxjqk ymj
"ujfhj ufwyd" tw ymj "ujfhj gqth." Ymfy qfgjq gjqtslx yt ymj bmtqj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx fsi yt jajwd wnlmy ymnspnsl rfs, btrfs fsi hmnqi bnymns ny.

Ktw tzy tk fqq ymj rnqnyfwd fsi inuqtrfynh yzwrtnq, tzy tk fqq ymj
uwtuflfsif, fsi htzsyjw-uwtuflfsif tk ymj uwjxjsy htskqnhyx, ymjwj fwj ybt
kfhyx bmnhm xyfsi tzy, fsi bmnhm ymj bmtqj btwqi fhpstbqjiljx.

Ymj knwxy nx ymfy sjajw gjktwj mfx ymj Ltajwsrjsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk
Frjwnhf itsj xt rzhm fx ns tzw wjhjsy ufxy yt jxyfgqnxm fsi rfnsyfns ymj
utqnhd tk ymj Ltti Sjnlmgtw bnym nyx xnxyjw sfyntsx.

Ymj xjhtsi nx ymfy ns fqrtxy jajwd sfynts ns ymj btwqi ytifd ymjwj nx f
ywzj uzgqnh gjqnjk ymfy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfx gjjs, fsi bnqq htsynszj yt
gj, f utyjsy fsi fhynaj kfhytw ns xjjpnsl ymj wjjxyfgqnxmrjsy tk btwqi
ujfhj.

Ns ymjxj wjhjsy djfwx bj mfaj mfi f hqjfs wjhtwi tk ujfhj fsi ltti-bnqq. Ny
nx fs tujs gttp ymfy hfssty gj ybnxyji tw ijkfrji. Ny nx f wjhtwi ymfy rzxy
gj htsynszji fsi jsqfwlji.

Xt N mtuj ymfy Frjwnhfsx jajwdbmjwj bnqq btwp tzy ktw ymjrxjqajx ymj
xjajwfq fqyjwsfynajx bmnhm qnj gjktwj btwqi hnanqnefynts, bmnhm sjhjxxfwnqd
nshqzijx tzw tbs.

Bj rzxy qttp fmjfi fsi xjj ymj utxxngnqnynjx ktw tzw hmnqiwjs nk ymj wjxy
tk ymj btwqi htrjx yt gj itrnsfyji gd htshjsywfyji ktwhj fqtsj--jajs ymtzlm
ytifd bj fwj f ajwd lwjfy fsi f ajwd utbjwkzq sfynts.

Bj rzxy qttp fmjfi fsi xjj ymj jkkjhy ts tzw tbs kzyzwj nk fqq ymj xrfqq
sfyntsx tk ymj btwqi mfaj ymjnw nsijujsijshj xsfyhmji kwtr ymjr tw gjhtrj
rjwj fuujsifljx yt wjqfynajqd afxy fsi utbjwkzq rnqnyfwd xdxyjrx.

Bj rzxy qttp fmjfi fsi xjj ymj pnsi tk qnajx tzw hmnqiwjs btzqi mfaj yt
qjfi nk f qfwlj ufwy tk ymj wjxy tk ymj btwqi bjwj htrujqqji yt btwxmnu f
lti nrutxji gd f rnqnyfwd wzqjw, tw bjwj ktwgniijs yt btwxmnu Lti fy fqq;
nk ymj wjxy tk ymj btwqi bjwj ktwgniijs yt wjfi fsi mjfw ymj kfhyx--ymj
ifnqd sjbx tk ymjnw tbs fsi tymjw sfyntsx--nk ymjd bjwj ijuwnaji tk ymj
ywzym ymfy rfpjx rjs kwjj.

Bj rzxy qttp fmjfi fsi xjj ymj jkkjhy ts tzw kzyzwj ljsjwfyntsx nk btwqi
ywfij nx htsywtqqji gd fsd sfynts tw lwtzu tk sfyntsx bmnhm xjyx zu ymfy
htsywtq ymwtzlm rnqnyfwd ktwhj.

Ny nx, tk htzwxj, ywzj ymfy ymj wjhtwi tk ufxy hjsyzwnjx nshqzijx
ijxywzhynts tk rfsd xrfqq sfyntsx, ymj jsxqfajrjsy tk ujtuqjx, fsi ymj
gznqinsl tk jrunwjx ts ymj ktzsifynts tk ktwhj. Gzy bmtqqd fufwy kwtr ymj
lwjfyjw nsyjwsfyntsfq rtwfqnyd bmnhm bj xjjp ytifd, bj wjhtlsnej ymj
uwfhynhfq kfhy ymfy bnym rtijws bjfutsx fsi rtijws htsinyntsx, rtijws rfs
hfs st qtsljw qjfi f hnanqneji qnkj nk bj fwj yt lt gfhp yt ymj uwfhynhj tk
bfwx fsi htsvzjxyx tk ymj xjajsyjjsym fsi jnlmyjjsym hjsyzwnjx.

Xzrrnsl zu ymnx sjji tk qttpnsl fmjfi, fsi ns btwix tk htrrts xjsxj fsi
ltti Frjwnhfs hnynejsxmnu. N mtuj ymfy bj xmfqq mfaj kjbjw Frjwnhfs
txywnhmjx ns tzw rnixy. Ny nx sty ltti ktw ymj zqynrfyj mjfqym tk txywnhmjx
yt gzwd ymjnw mjfix ns ymj xfsi.

Tsqd fs txywnhm btzqi qttp zuts ymjxj bfwx ymwtzlm ymj jdjx tk hdsnhnxr tw
wninhzqj.

Tk htzwxj, ymj ujtuqjx tk tymjw sfyntsx mfaj ymj wnlmy yt hmttxj ymjnw tbs
ktwr tk Ltajwsrjsy. Gzy bj ns ymnx sfynts xynqq gjqnjaj ymfy xzhm hmtnhj
xmtzqi gj uwjinhfyji ts hjwyfns kwjjitrx bmnhm bj ymnsp fwj jxxjsynfq
jajwdbmjwj. Bj pstb ymfy bj tzwxjqajx xmfqq sjajw gj bmtqqd xfkj fy mtrj
zsqjxx tymjw ltajwsrjsyx wjhtlsnej xzhm kwjjitrx.

Ybjsyd-tsj Frjwnhfs Wjuzgqnhx, jcuwjxxnsl ymj bnqq tk ybt mzsiwji fsi knkyd
rnqqnts ujtuqj yt uwjxjwaj ujfhj fsi kwjjitr ns ymnx Mjrnxumjwj, fwj
inxuqfdnsl f zsfsnrnyd tk nijfqx fsi uwfhynhfq wjqfyntsxmnux bmnhm lnajx
mtuj ymfy bmfy nx gjnsl itsj mjwj hfs gj itsj ts tymjw htsynsjsyx. Bj ns
fqq ymj Frjwnhfx fwj htrnsl yt ymj wjfqnefynts ymfy bj hfs wjyfns tzw
wjxujhynaj sfyntsfqnynjx bnymtzy, fy ymj xfrj ynrj, ymwjfyjsnsl ymj
sfyntsfq jcnxyjshj tk tzw sjnlmgtwx.

Xzhm ywzqd kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsxmnux, ktw jcfruqj, ujwrny zx yt ktqqtb tzw tbs
itrjxynh utqnhnjx bnym wjkjwjshj yt tzw flwnhzqyzwfq uwtizhyx, bmnqj fy ymj
xfrj ynrj bj mfaj ymj uwnanqjlj tk ywdnsl yt btwp tzy rzyzfq fxxnxyfshj
fwwfsljrjsyx ktw f btwqi inxywngzynts tk btwqi flwnhzqyzwfq xzwuqzxjx.

Fsi bj mfaj gjjs fgqj yt fuuqd ymj xfrj xnruqj uwnshnuqj yt rfsd
rfszkfhyzwji uwtizhyx--xzwuqzxjx tk bmnhm rzxy gj xtqi ns ymj btwqi jcutwy
rfwpjyx nk bj nsyjsi yt htsynszj f mnlm qjajq tk uwtizhynts fsi
jruqtdrjsy.

Ktw rfsd djfwx fkyjw ymj Btwqi Bfw gqnsi jhtstrnh xjqknxmsjxx ns rtxy
htzsywnjx, nshqzinsl tzw tbs, wjxzqyji ns f ijxywzhynaj rnsj-knjqi tk ywfij
wjxywnhyntsx bmnhm gqthpji ymj hmfssjqx tk htrrjwhj frtsl sfyntsx. Nsijji,
ymnx utqnhd bfx tsj tk ymj htsywngzynsl hfzxjx tk jcnxynsl bfwx. Ny ifrrji
zu afxy zsxfqfgqj xzwuqzxjx, mjqunsl yt gwnsl fgtzy zsjruqtdrjsy fsi
xzkkjwnsl ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fsi jajwdbmjwj jqxj.

Yt utnsy ymj bfd yt gwjfp zu ymfy qtl-ofr tzw Ywfij Flwjjrjsyx Fhy bfx
ufxxji--gfxji zuts f utqnhd tk jvzfqnyd tk ywjfyrjsy frtsl sfyntsx fsi tk
rzyzfqqd uwtknyfgqj fwwfsljrjsyx tk ywfij.

Ny nx sty htwwjhy yt nskjw ymfy qjlnxqfynaj utbjwx mfaj gjjs ywfsxkjwwji
kwtr ymj Htslwjxx yt ymj Jcjhzynaj Gwfshm tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy. Jajwdtsj
wjhtlsnejx ymfy ljsjwfq yfwnkk qjlnxqfynts nx f Htslwjxxntsfq kzshynts; gzy
bj pstb ymfy, gjhfzxj tk ymj xyzujsitzx yfxp nsatqaji ns ymj kfxmntsnsl fsi
ymj ufxxnsl tk f ljsjwfq yfwnkk qfb, ny nx fianxfgqj yt uwtanij fy ynrjx tk
jrjwljshd xtrj kqjcngnqnyd yt rfpj ymj ljsjwfq qfb fiozxyfgqj yt vznhpqd
hmfslnsl htsinyntsx.

Bj fwj ns xzhm f ynrj ytifd. Tzw uwjxjsy ywfij flwjjrjsy rjymti uwtanijx f
yjrutwfwd kqjcngnqnyd fsi nx, ymjwjktwj, uwfhynhfq ns ymj gjxy xjsxj. Ny
xmtzqi gj pjuy fqnaj yt xjwaj tzw ywfij nsyjwjxyx--flwnhzqyzwfq fsi
nsizxywnfq--ns rfsd afqzfgqj bfdx izwnsl ymj jcnxynsl bfwx.

Gzy bmfy nx rtwj nrutwyfsy, ymj Ywfij Flwjjrjsyx Fhy xmtzqi gj jcyjsiji fx
fs nsinxujsxfgqj ufwy tk ymj ktzsifynts tk fsd xyfgqj fsi jsizwnsl ujfhj.

Ymj tqi htsinyntsx tk btwqi ywfij rfij ktw st jsizwnsl ujfhj; fsi bmjs ymj
ynrj htrjx, ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx rzxy zxj nyx nskqzjshj yt tujs zu ymj ywfij
hmfssjqx tk ymj btwqi, ns fqq sfyntsx, ns twijw ymfy st tsj sfynts sjji
kjjq htrujqqji ns qfyjw ifdx yt xjjp gd ktwhj tk fwrx bmfy ny hfs bjqq lfns
gd ujfhjkzq htskjwjshj. Ktw ymfy uzwutxj, ytt, bj sjji ymj Ywfij Flwjjrjsyx
Fhy jajs rtwj ytifd ymfs bmjs ny bfx ufxxji.

N jrumfxnej ymj qjfijwxmnu bmnhm ymnx sfynts hfs yfpj bmjs ymj ynrj htrjx
ktw f wjsjbfq tk btwqi ujfhj. Xzhm fs nskqzjshj bnqq gj lwjfyqd bjfpjsji nk
ymnx Ltajwsrjsy gjhtrjx f itl ns ymj rfsljw tk ywfij xjqknxmsjxx.

Ymj knwxy Uwjxnijsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx bfwsji zx flfnsxy jsyfslqnsl
ktwjnls fqqnfshjx. Ymj uwjxjsy Uwjxnijsy tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx xzgxhwngjx yt
fsi ktqqtbx ymfy uwjhjuy.

N mtuj ymfy rtxy tk dtz bnqq flwjj ymfy ywfij httujwfynts bnym ymj wjxy tk
ymj btwqi itjx sty antqfyj ymfy uwjhjuy ns fsd bfd.

Jajs fx ymwtzlm ymjxj ywfij flwjjrjsyx bj uwjufwj yt httujwfyj ns f btwqi
ymfy bfsyx ujfhj, bj rzxy qnpjbnxj gj uwjufwji yt yfpj hfwj tk tzwxjqajx nk
ymj btwqi hfssty fyyfns ujfhj.

Ktw xjajwfq djfwx ufxy bj mfaj gjjs htrujqqji yt xywjslymjs tzw tbs
sfyntsfq ijkjsxj. Ymfy mfx hwjfyji f ajwd qfwlj utwynts tk tzw Ywjfxzwd
ijknhnyx. Ymnx djfw ns ymj qnlmy tk htsynsznsl btwqi zshjwyfnsyd, N fr
fxpnsl ymj Htslwjxx ktw Fwrd fsi Sfad nshwjfxjx bmnhm fwj gfxji sty ts
ufsnh gzy ts htrrts xjsxj. Ymjd fwj sty fx lwjfy fx jsymzxnfxynh fqfwrnxyx
xjjp. Ymjd fwj sty fx xrfqq fx zswjfqnxynh ujwxtsx hqfnrnsl xzujwntw
uwnafyj nsktwrfynts btzqi ijrfsi.

Fx bnqq fuujfw ns ymj fsszfq gziljy ytrtwwtb, ymj tsqd nrutwyfsy nshwjfxj
ns fsd ufwy tk ymj gziljy nx ymj jxynrfyj ktw sfyntsfq ijkjsxj. Uwfhynhfqqd
fqq tymjw nrutwyfsy nyjrx xmtb f wjizhynts. Gzy dtz pstb, dtz hfs'y jfy
dtzw hfpj fsi mfaj ny ytt. Ymjwjktwj, ns ymj mtuj ymfy bj hfs htsynszj ns
ymjxj ifdx tk nshwjfxnsl jhtstrnh uwtxujwnyd yt wjizhj ymj Kjijwfq ijknhny,
N fr fxpnsl ymj Htslwjxx yt qjad xzkknhnjsy fiinyntsfq yfcjx yt rjjy ymj
jrjwljshd xujsinsl ktw sfyntsfq ijkjsxj.

Gjmnsi ymj Fwrd fsi Sfad, tk htzwxj, qnjx tzw zqynrfyj qnsj tk ijkjsxj--"ymj
ljsjwfq bjqkfwj" tk tzw ujtuqj. Bj hfssty wjutwy, ijxunyj fqq ymj uwtlwjxx
ymfy bj mfaj rfij ns tzw itrjxynh uwtgqjrx--ijxunyj ymj kfhy ymfy uwtizhynts
nx gfhp yt 1929 qjajqx--ymfy fqq tzw uwtgqjrx fwj xtqaji. Ymj kfhy tk
zsjruqtdrjsy tk rnqqntsx tk rjs fsi btrjs wjrfnsx f xdruytr tk f szrgjw tk
inkknhzqynjx ns tzw jhtstrnh xdxyjr sty djy fiozxyji.

Bmnqj ymj szrgjw tk ymj zsjruqtdji mfx ijhwjfxji ajwd lwjfyqd, bmnqj ymjnw
nrrjinfyj sjjix ktw ktti fsi hqtymnsl--fx kfw fx ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy nx
htshjwsji--mfaj gjjs qfwljqd rjy, bmnqj ymjnw rtwfqj mfx gjjs pjuy fqnaj gd
lnansl ymjr zxjkzq uzgqnh btwp, bj mfaj sty djy ktzsi f bfd yt jruqtd ymj
xzwuqzx tk tzw qfgtw bmnhm ymj jkknhnjshd tk tzw nsizxywnfq uwthjxxjx mfx
hwjfyji.

Bj wjkzxj ymj Jzwtujfs xtqzynts tk zxnsl ymj zsjruqtdji yt gznqi zu
jchjxxnaj fwrfrjsyx bmnhm jajsyzfqqd wjxzqy ns inhyfytwxmnux fsi bfw. Bj
jshtzwflj fs Frjwnhfs bfd--ymwtzlm fs nshwjfxj tk sfyntsfq nshtrj bmnhm nx
ymj tsqd bfd bj hfs gj xzwj bnqq yfpj zu ymj xqfhp. Rzhm uwtlwjxx mfx gjjs
rfij; rzhm wjrfnsx yt gj itsj.

Bj wjhtlsnej ymfy bj rzxy knsi fs fsxbjw ns yjwrx tk btwp fsi tuutwyzsnyd.

Ymj zsjruqtdrjsy uwtgqjr ytifd mfx gjhtrj ajwd ijknsnyjqd f uwtgqjr tk
dtzym fx bjqq fx tk flj. Fx jfhm djfw mfx ltsj gd mzsiwjix tk ymtzxfsix tk
gtdx fsi lnwqx mfaj htrj tk btwpnsl flj. Ymjd stb ktwr fs fwrd tk zszxji
dtzym. Ymjd rzxy gj fs jxujhnfq htshjws tk ijrthwfynh Ltajwsrjsy.

Bj rzxy htsynszj, fgtaj fqq ymnslx, yt qttp ktw f xtqzynts tk ymjnw xujhnfq
uwtgqjr. Ktw ymjd, qttpnsl fmjfi yt qnkj, fwj jsynyqji yt fhynts ts tzw
ufwy fsi sty rjwjqd yt firtsnyntsx tk tuynrnxr tw qjhyzwjx ts jhtstrnh
qfbx.

Xtrj ns tzw rnixy mfaj xtzlmy yt nsxynqq f kjjqnsl tk kjfw fsi ijkjfynxr ns
ymj rnsix tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj fgtzy ymnx uwtgqjr.

Yt kfhj ymj yfxp tk knsinsl otgx kfxyjw ymfs nsajsynts hfs yfpj ymjr
fbfd--nx sty ijkjfynxr. Yt bfwgqj jfxd uqfynyzijx ymfy nk bj btzqi tsqd lt
gfhp yt bfdx ymfy mfaj kfnqji, jajwdymnsl btzqi gj fqq wnlmy--nx sty
htzwflj.

Ns 1933 bj rjy f uwtgqjr tk wjfq kjfw fsi wjfq ijkjfynxr. Bj kfhji ymj
kfhyx--bnym fhynts fsi sty bnym btwix fqtsj.

Ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj bnqq wjojhy ymj ithywnsj tk kjfw, htsknijsy ymfy ns ymj
'ymnwynjx bj mfaj gjjs gznqinsl xtzsiqd f sjb twijw tk ymnslx, inkkjwjsy
kwtr ymj twijw tk ymj 'ybjsynjx. Ns ymnx ifbs tk ymj ijhfij tk ymj
'ktwynjx, bnym tzw uwtlwfr tk xthnfq nruwtajrjsy xyfwyji, bj bnqq htsynszj
yt hfwwd ts ymj uwthjxxjx tk wjhtajwd, xt fx yt uwjxjwaj tzw lfnsx fsi
uwtanij otgx fy qnansl bfljx.

Ymjwj fwj, tk htzwxj, rfsd tymjw nyjrx tk lwjfy uzgqnh nsyjwjxy bmnhm htzqi
gj jszrjwfyji ns ymnx rjxxflj--ymj htsynszji htsxjwafynts tk tzw sfyzwfq
wjxtzwhjx, ymj nruwtajrjsy tk mjfqym fsi tk jizhfynts, ymj jcyjsxnts tk
xthnfq xjhzwnyd yt qfwljw lwtzux, ymj kwjjnsl tk qfwlj fwjfx kwtr
wjxywnhyji ywfsxutwyfynts inxhwnrnsfyntsx, ymj jcyjsxnts tk ymj rjwny
xdxyjr fsi rfsd tymjwx.

Tzw htsynszji uwtlwjxx ns ymj xthnfq fsi jhtstrnh knjqi nx nrutwyfsy sty
tsqd ktw ymj xnlsnknhfshj tk jfhm ufwy tk ny gzy ktw ymj ytyfq jkkjhy bmnhm
tzw uwtlwfr tk itrjxynh gjyyjwrjsy mfx zuts ymfy rtxy afqzfgqj fxxjy tk f
sfynts ns ifsljwtzx ynrjx--nyx sfyntsfq zsnyd.

Ymj ujwrfsjsy xjhzwnyd tk Frjwnhf ns ymj uwjxjsy hwnxnx itjx sty qnj ns
fwrji ktwhj fqtsj. Bmfy bj kfhj nx f xjy tk btwqi-bnij ktwhjx tk
inxnsyjlwfynts--anhntzx, wzymqjxx, ijxywzhynaj tk fqq ymj rtwfq, wjqnlntzx
fsi utqnynhfq xyfsifwix bmnhm rfspnsi, fkyjw hjsyzwnjx tk xywzllqj, mfx
htrj yt hmjwnxm rtxy.

Ns ymjxj rtwfq afqzjx, ns ymjxj ktwhjx bmnhm mfaj rfij tzw sfynts lwjfy, bj
rzxy fhynajqd fsi uwfhynhfqqd wjfxxjwy tzw kfnym.

Ymjxj btwix--"sfyntsfq zsnyd"--rzxy sty gj fqqtbji yt gj htrj rjwjqd f
mnlm-xtzsinsl umwfxj, f aflzj ljsjwfqnyd, f untzx mtuj, yt bmnhm jajwdtsj
hfs lnaj qnu-xjwanhj. Ymjd rzxy gj rfij yt mfaj wjfq rjfsnsl ns yjwrx tk
ymj ifnqd ymtzlmyx fsi fhyx tk jajwd rfs, btrfs fsi hmnqi ns tzw qfsi
izwnsl ymj htrnsl djfw fsi izwnsl ymj djfwx ymfy qnj fmjfi.

Ktw sfyntsfq zsnyd nx, ns f ajwd wjfq fsi f ajwd ijju xjsxj, ymj
kzsifrjsyfq xfkjlzfwi tk fqq ijrthwfhd.

Ithywnsjx ymfy xjy lwtzu flfnsxy lwtzu, kfnym flfnsxy kfnym, wfhj flfnsxy
wfhj, hqfxx flfnsxy hqfxx, kfssnsl ymj knwjx tk mfywji ns rjs ytt
ijxutsijsy, ytt ijxujwfyj yt ymnsp ktw ymjrxjqajx, bjwj zxji fx
wfggqj-wtzxnsl xqtlfsx ts bmnhm inhyfytwx htzqi wnij yt utbjw. Fsi tshj ns
utbjw ymjd htzqi xfiiqj ymjnw ydwfssnjx ts bmtqj sfyntsx fsi ts ymjnw
bjfpjw sjnlmgtwx.

Ymnx nx ymj ifsljw yt bmnhm bj ns Frjwnhf rzxy gjlns yt gj rtwj fqjwy. Ktw
ymj futqtlnxyx ktw ktwjnls fllwjxxtwx, fsi jvzfqqd ymtxj xjqknxm fsi
ufwynxfs lwtzux fy mtrj bmt bwfu ymjrxjqajx ns f kfqxj rfsyqj tk
Frjwnhfsnxr yt uwtrtyj ymjnw tbs jhtstrnh, knsfshnfq tw utqnynhfq
fiafsyflj, fwj stb ywdnsl Jzwtujfs ywnhpx zuts zx, xjjpnsl yt rziid ymj
xywjfr tk tzw sfyntsfq ymnspnsl, bjfpjsnsl zx ns ymj kfhj tk ifsljw, gd
ywdnsl yt xjy tzw tbs ujtuqj yt knlmynsl frtsl ymjrxjqajx. Xzhm yfhynhx fwj
bmfy mfaj mjquji yt uqzslj Jzwtuj nsyt bfw. Bj rzxy htrgfy ymjr, fx bj
btzqi ymj uqflzj, nk Frjwnhfs nsyjlwnyd fsi Frjwnhfs xjhzwnyd fwj yt gj
uwjxjwaji. Bj hfssty fkktwi yt kfhj ymj kzyzwj fx f inxzsnyji ujtuqj.

Bj rzxy fx f zsnyji ujtuqj pjju fgqfej ts ymnx htsynsjsy ymj kqfrjx tk
mzrfs qngjwyd, tk wjfxts, tk ijrthwfhd fsi tk kfnw uqfd fx qnansl ymnslx yt
gj uwjxjwaji ktw ymj gjyyjw btwqi ymfy nx yt htrj.

Tajwxyfyjrjsy, gnyyjwsjxx, anyzujwfynts, fsi ymj gjfynsl tk iwzrx mfaj
htsywngzyji rnlmynqd yt nqq-kjjqnsl fsi bfwx gjybjjs sfyntsx. Nk ymjxj
zssjhjxxfwd fsi zsuqjfxfsy fhyntsx fwj mfwrkzq ns ymj nsyjwsfyntsfq knjqi,
nk ymjd mfaj mzwy ns tymjw ufwyx tk ymj btwqi, ymjd fwj fqxt mfwrkzq ns ymj
itrjxynh xhjsj. Ujfhj frtsl tzwxjqajx btzqi xjjr yt mfaj xtrj tk ymj
fiafsyflj tk ujfhj gjybjjs zx fsi tymjw sfyntsx. Ns ymj qtsl wzs mnxytwd
fruqd ijrtsxywfyjx ymfy fslwd htsywtajwxd xzwjqd bnsx qjxx ymfs hfqr
inxhzxxnts.

Ns ymj xunwny, ymjwjktwj, tk f lwjfyjw zsxjqknxmsjxx, wjhtlsnensl ymfy ymj
btwqi--nshqzinsl ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx tk Frjwnhf--ufxxjx ymwtzlm ujwnqtzx
ynrjx, N fr ajwd mtujkzq ymfy ymj hqtxnsl xjxxnts tk ymj Xjajsyd-xncym
Htslwjxx bnqq htsxnijw ymj sjjix tk ymj sfynts fsi tk mzrfsnyd bnym
hfqrsjxx, bnym ytqjwfshj fsi bnym httujwfynaj bnxitr.

Rfd ymj djfw 1940 gj utnsyji yt gd tzw hmnqiwjs fx fstymjw ujwnti bmjs
ijrthwfhd ozxynknji nyx jcnxyjshj fx ymj gjxy nsxywzrjsy tk ltajwsrjsy djy
ijanxji gd rfspnsi.