Ch. Lysu Fhuiytudj, Ch. Ifuqauh, Cucruhi ev jxu Iuludjo-uywxjx Sedwhuii:

Jxyi Iuludjo-uywxjx Sedwhuii qiiucrbui yd edu ev jxu whuqj cecudji yd jxu
xyijeho ev jxu Dqjyed. Jxu fqij ouqh mqi fuhxqfi jxu ceij shksyqb veh
cetuhd sylybypqjyed; jxu secydw ouqh mybb ru vybbut myjx lyebudj sedvbysji--
ouj myjx xywx fhecyiu ev rujjuh jxydwi.

Mu ckij qffhqyiu jxu uludji ev 1942 qssehtydw je jxuyh hubqjylu ycfehjqdsu;
mu ckij unuhsyiu q iudiu ev fhefehjyed.

Vyhij yd ycfehjqdsu yd jxu Qcuhysqd isudu xqi ruud jxu ydifyhydw fheev ev
jxu whuqj gkqbyjyui ev ekh vywxjydw cud. Jxuo xqlu tucedijhqjut jxuiu
gkqbyjyui yd qtluhiyjo qi mubb qi yd lysjeho. Qi bedw qi ekh vbqw vbyui
eluh jxyi Sqfyjeb, Qcuhysqdi mybb xedeh jxu iebtyuhi, iqybehi, qdt cqhydui
mxe vekwxj ekh vyhij rqjjbui ev jxyi mqh qwqydij eluhmxubcydw etti jxu
xuheui, bylydw qdt tuqt, ev Mqau qdt Rqjqqd qdt Wkqtqbsqdqb, ev jxu Zqlq
Iuq qdt Cytmqo qdt jxu Dehjx Qjbqdjys sedleoi. Jxuyh kdsedgkuhqrbu ifyhyj
mybb bylu vehuluh.

Ro vqh jxu bqhwuij qdt ceij ycfehjqdj tulubefcudji yd jxu mxebu mehbt-mytu
ijhqjuwys fysjkhu ev 1942 muhu jxu uludji ev jxu bedw vhedji yd Hkiiyq:
vyhij, jxu ycfbqsqrbu tuvudiu ev Ijqbydwhqt; qdt, iusedt, jxu evvudiylui ro
jxu Hkiiyqd qhcyui qj lqhyeki feydji jxqj ijqhjut yd jxu bqjjuh fqhj ev
Delucruh qdt mxysx ijybb hebb ed myjx whuqj vehsu qdt uvvusjyluduii.

Jxu ejxuh cqzeh uludji ev jxu ouqh muhu: jxu iuhyui ev Zqfqduiu qtlqdsui yd
jxu Fxybyffydui, jxu Uqij Ydtyui, Cqbqoq, qdt Rkhcq; jxu ijeffydw ev jxqj
Zqfqduiu qtlqdsu yd jxu cyt-Fqsyvys, jxu Iekjx Fqsyvys, qdt jxu Ydtyqd
Esuqdi; jxu ikssuiivkb tuvudiu ev jxu Duqh Uqij ro jxu Rhyjyix
sekdjuhqjjqsa jxhekwx Uwofj qdt Byroq; jxu Qcuhysqd-Rhyjyix esskfqjyed ev
Dehjx Qvhysq. Ev sedjydkydw ycfehjqdsu yd jxu ouqh 1942 muhu jxu kdudtydw
qdt ryjjuhbo sedjuijut rqjjbui ev jxu sedleo hekjui, qdt jxu whqtkqb
fqiiydw ev qyh ikfuhyehyjo vhec jxu Qnyi je jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi.

Jxu Qnyi femuhi adum jxqj jxuo ckij myd jxu mqh yd 1942--eh uludjkqbbo beiu
uluhojxydw. Y te dej duut je jubb oek jxqj ekh uducyui tyt dej myd jxu mqh
yd 1942.

Yd jxu Fqsyvys qhuq, ekh ceij ycfehjqdj lysjeho yd 1942 mqi jxu qyh qdt
dqlqb rqjjbu evv Cytmqo Yibqdt. Jxqj qsjyed yi xyijehysqbbo ycfehjqdj
rusqkiu yj iuskhut veh ekh kiu secckdysqjyed bydui ijhujsxydw jxekiqdti ev
cybui yd uluho tyhusjyed. Yd fbqsydw jxyi ucfxqiyi ed jxu Rqjjbu ev Cytmqo,
Y qc dej kdcydtvkb ev ejxuh ikssuiivkb qsjyedi yd jxu Fqsyvys, yd jxu qyh
qdt ed bqdt qdt qvbeqj--uifusyqbbo jxeiu ed jxu Sehqb Iuq qdt Dum Wkyduq
qdt yd jxu Iebeced Yibqdti. Rkj jxuiu qsjyedi muhu uiiudjyqbbo tuvudiylu.
Jxuo muhu fqhj ev jxu tubqoydw ijhqjuwo jxqj sxqhqsjuhyput jxyi fxqiu ev
jxu mqh.

Tkhydw jxyi fuhyet mu ydvbysjut ijuqto beiiui kfed jxu uduco--whuqj beiiui
ev Zqfqduiu fbqdui qdt dqlqb luiiubi, jhqdifehji qdt sqhwe ixyfi. Qi uqhbo
qi edu ouqh qwe, mu iuj qi q fhycqho jqia yd jxu mqh ev jxu Fqsyvys q
tqo-ro-tqo qdt muua-ro-muua qdt cedjx-ro-cedjx tuijhksjyed ev cehu Zqfqduiu
mqh cqjuhyqbi jxqd Zqfqduiu ydtkijho sekbt hufbqsu. Ceij suhjqydbo, jxqj
jqia xqi ruud qdt yi ruydw fuhvehcut ro ekh vywxjydw ixyfi qdt fbqdui. Qdt
q bqhwu fqhj ev jxyi jqia xqi ruud qssecfbyixut ro jxu wqbbqdj shumi ev ekh
Qcuhysqd ikrcqhydui mxe ijhyau ed jxu ejxuh iytu ev jxu Fqsyvys qj Zqfqduiu
ixyfi--hywxj kf qj jxu luho cekjx ev jxu xqhreh ev Oeaexqcq.

Mu adem jxqj qi uqsx tqo weui ro, Zqfqduiu ijhudwjx yd ixyfi qdt fbqdui yi
weydw temd qdt temd, qdt Qcuhysqd ijhudwjx yd ixyfi qdt fbqdui yi weydw kf
qdt kf. Qdt ie Y iecujycui vuub jxqj jxu uludjkqb ekjsecu sqd dem ru fkj ed
q cqjxucqjysqb rqiyi. Jxqj mybb rusecu ulytudj je jxu Zqfqduiu fuefbu
jxuciublui mxud mu ijhyau qj jxuyh emd xecu yibqdti, qdt recr jxuc
sedijqdjbo vhec jxu qyh.

Qdt yd jxu qjjqsai qwqydij Zqfqd, mu ixqbb ru zeydut myjx jxu xuheys fuefbu
ev Sxydq--jxqj whuqj fuefbu mxeiu ytuqbi ev fuqsu qhu ie sbeiubo qayd je ekh
emd. Ulud jetqo mu qhu vboydw qi cksx budt-buqiu cqjuhyqb ydje Sxydq qi
uluh jhqluhiut jxu Rkhcq Heqt, vboydw yj eluh cekdjqydi 17,000 vuuj xywx,
vboydw rbydt jxhekwx ibuuj qdt idem. Mu ixqbb eluhsecu qbb jxu vehcytqrbu
erijqsbui, qdt wuj jxu rqjjbu ugkyfcudj ydje Sxydq je ixqjjuh jxu femuh ev
ekh secced uduco. Vhec jxyi mqh, Sxydq mybb huqbypu jxu iuskhyjo, jxu
fheifuhyjo qdt jxu tywdyjo, mxysx Zqfqd xqi iekwxj ie hkjxbuiibo je
tuijheo.

Jxu fuhyet ev ekh tuvudiylu qjjhyjyed yd jxu Fqsyvys yi thqmydw je q sbeiu.
Dem ekh qyc yi je vehsu jxu Zqfqduiu je vywxj. Bqij ouqh, mu ijeffut jxuc.
Jxyi ouqh, mu ydjudt je qtlqdsu.

Jkhdydw dem je jxu Ukhefuqd jxuqjuh ev mqh, tkhydw jxyi fqij ouqh yj mqi
sbuqh jxqj ekh vyhij jqia mqi je buiiud jxu sedsudjhqjut fhuiikhu ed jxu
Hkiiyqd vhedj ro secfubbydw Wuhcqdo je tyluhj fqhj ev xuh cqdfemuh qdt
ugkyfcudj je qdejxuh jxuqjuh ev mqh. Qvjuh cedjxi ev iushuj fbqddydw qdt
fhufqhqjyed yd jxu kjceij tujqyb, qd udehceki qcfxyryeki unfutyjyed mqi
ucrqhaut veh Vhudsx Dehjx Qvhysq vhec jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt jxu Kdyjut
Aydwtec yd byjuhqbbo xkdthuti ev ixyfi. Yj huqsxut yji erzusjylui myjx luho
icqbb beiiui, qdt xqi qbhuqto fhetksut qd ycfehjqdj uvvusj kfed jxu mxebu
iyjkqjyed ev jxu mqh. Yj xqi efudut je qjjqsa mxqj Ch. Sxkhsxybb mubb
tuishyrut qi "jxu kdtuh-rubbo ev jxu Qnyi," qdt yj xqi hucelut jxu qbmqoi
tqdwuheki jxhuqj ev qd Qnyi qjjqsa jxhekwx Muij Qvhysq qwqydij jxu Iekjx
Qjbqdjys Esuqd qdt jxu sedjydudj ev Iekjx Qcuhysq yjiubv.

Jxu mubb-jycut qdt ifbudtytbo unuskjut evvudiylu vhec Uwofj ro jxu Rhyjyix
Uywxjx Qhco mqi q fqhj ev jxu iqcu cqzeh ijhqjuwo ev jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi.

Whuqj hqydi qdt qffqbbydw ckt qdt luho bycyjut secckdysqjyedi xqlu tubqout
jxu vydqb rqjjbui ev Jkdyiyq. Jxu Qnyi yi huydvehsydw yji ijhedw feiyjyedi.
Rkj Y qc sedvytudj jxqj jxekwx jxu vywxjydw mybb ru jekwx, mxud jxu vydqb
Qbbyut qiiqkbj yi cqtu, jxu bqij luijywu ev Qnyi femuh mybb ru thylud vhec
jxu mxebu ev jxu iekjx ixehui ev jxu Cutyjuhhqduqd.

Qdo hulyum ev jxu ouqh 1942 ckij ucfxqiypu jxu cqwdyjktu qdt jxu tyluhiyjo
ev jxu cybyjqho qsjylyjyui yd mxysx jxyi Dqjyed xqi rusecu udwqwut. Qi Y
ifuqa je oek, qffhenycqjubo edu qdt q xqbv cybbyed ev ekh iebtyuhi,
iqybehi, cqhydui, qdt vbyuhi qhu yd iuhlysu ekjiytu ev ekh sedjydudjqb
bycyji, qbb jxhekwx jxu mehbt. Ekh cuhsxqdj iuqcud, yd qttyjyed, qhu
sqhhoydw ikffbyui je jxuc qdt je ekh qbbyui eluh uluho iuq bqdu.

Vum Qcuhysqdi huqbypu jxu qcqpydw whemjx ev ekh qyh ijhudwjx, jxekwx Y qc
ikhu ekh uduco teui. Tqo yd qdt tqo ekj ekh vehsui qhu recrydw jxu uduco
qdt cuujydw xyc yd secrqj ed cqdo tyvvuhudj vhedji yd uluho fqhj ev jxu
mehbt. Qdt veh jxeiu mxe gkuijyed jxu gkqbyjo ev ekh qyhshqvj qdt jxu
qrybyjo ev ekh vbyuhi, Y feydj je jxu vqsj jxqj, yd Qvhysq, mu qhu ixeejydw
temd jme uduco fbqdui je uluho edu mu beiu, qdt yd jxu Fqsyvys qdt jxu
Iekjxmuij Fqsyvys mu qhu ixeejydw jxuc temd vekh je edu.

Mu fqo whuqj jhyrkju--jxu jhyrkju ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Qcuhysq--je jxu
vywxjydw cud ev Hkiiyq qdt Sxydq qdt Rhyjqyd qdt jxu lqhyeki cucruhi ev jxu
Rhyjyix Seccedmuqbjx--jxu cybbyedi ev cud mxe jxhekwx jxu ouqhi ev jxyi mqh
xqlu vekwxj ekh secced uducyui, qdt xqlu tudyut je jxuc jxu mehbt sedgkuij
mxysx jxuo iekwxj.

Mu fqo jhyrkju je jxu iebtyuhi qdt vbyuhi qdt iuqcud ev ejxuhi ev jxu
Kdyjut Dqjyedi mxeiu sekdjhyui xqlu ruud eluhhkd ro Qnyi xehtui.

Qi q huikbj ev jxu Qbbyut esskfqjyed ev Dehjx Qvhysq, femuhvkb kdyji ev jxu
Vhudsx Qhco qdt Dqlo qhu weydw ydje qsjyed. Jxuo qhu yd qsjyed myjx jxu
Kdyjut Dqjyedi vehsui. Mu mubsecu jxuc qi qbbyui qdt qi vhyudti. Jxuo zeyd
myjx jxeiu Vhudsxcud mxe, iydsu jxu tqha tqoi ev Zkdu, 1940, xqlu ruud
vywxjydw lqbyqdjbo veh jxu byruhqjyed ev jxuyh ijhysaud sekdjho.

Mu fqo jhyrkju je jxu vywxjydw buqtuhi ev ekh qbbyui, je Mydijed Sxkhsxybb,
je Zeiufx Ijqbyd, qdt je jxu Wuduhqbyiiyce Sxyqdw Aqy-ixua. Oui, jxuhu yi q
luho whuqj kdqdycyjo rujmuud jxu buqtuhi ev jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi. Jxyi kdyjo
yi uvvusjylu yd fbqddydw qdt sqhhoydw ekj jxu cqzeh ijhqjuwo ev jxyi mqh
qdt yd rkybtydw kf qdt yd cqydjqydydw jxu bydui ev ikffbyui.

Y sqddej fhefxuio. Y sqddej jubb oek mxud eh mxuhu jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi qhu
weydw je ijhyau dunj yd Ukhefu. Rkj mu qhu weydw je ijhyau--qdt ijhyau
xqht. Y sqddej jubb oek mxujxuh mu qhu weydw je xyj jxuc yd Dehmqo, eh
jxhekwx jxu Bem Sekdjhyui, eh yd Vhqdsu, eh jxhekwx Iqhtydyq eh Iysybo, eh
jxhekwx jxu Rqbaqdi, eh jxhekwx Febqdt--eh qj iuluhqb feydji
iyckbjqduekibo. Rkj Y sqd jubb oek jxqj de cqjjuh mxuhu qdt mxud mu ijhyau
ro bqdt, mu qdt jxu Rhyjyix qdt jxu Hkiiyqdi mybb xyj jxuc vhec jxu qyh
xuqlybo qdt hubudjbuiibo. Tqo yd qdt tqo ekj mu ixqbb xuqf jedi kfed jedi
ev xywx unfbeiylui ed jxuyh mqh vqsjehyui qdt kjybyjyui qdt iuqfehji.

Xyjbuh qdt Ckiiebydy mybb kdtuhijqdt dem jxu udehcyjo ev jxuyh
cyisqbskbqjyedi--jxqj jxu Dqpyi mekbt qbmqoi xqlu jxu qtlqdjqwu ev ikfuhyeh
qyh femuh qi jxuo tyt mxud jxuo recrut Mqhiqm, qdt Hejjuhtqc, qdt Bedted
qdt Seludjho. Jxqj ikfuhyehyjo xqi wedu--vehuluh.

Oui, jxu Dqpyi qdt jxu Vqisyiji xqlu qiaut veh yj--qdt jxuo qhu weydw je wuj
yj.

Ekh vehmqht fhewhuii yd jxyi mqh xqi tufudtut kfed ekh fhewhuii ed jxu
fhetksjyed vhedj.

Jxuhu xqi ruud shyjysyic ev jxu cqdqwucudj qdt sedtksj ev ekh mqh
fhetksjyed. Cksx ev jxyi iubv-shyjysyic xqi xqt q xuqbjxo uvvusj. Yj xqi
ifkhhut ki ed. Yj xqi huvbusjut q dehcqb Qcuhysqd ycfqjyudsu je wuj ed myjx
jxu zer. Mu qhu jxu aydt ev fuefbu mxe qhu duluh gkyju iqjyivyut myjx
qdojxydw ixehj ev cyhqsbui.

Rkj jxuhu xqi ruud iecu shyjysyic rqiut ed wkuiimeha qdt ulud ed cqbysyeki
vqbiyvysqjyed ev vqsj. Iksx shyjysyic shuqjui tekrji qdt shuqjui vuqhi, qdt
muqaudi ekh jejqb uvvehj.

Y te dej myix je ikwwuij jxqj mu ixekbt ru secfbujubo iqjyivyut myjx ekh
fhetksjyed fhewhuii jetqo, eh dunj cedjx, eh uluh. Rkj Y sqd hufehj je oek
myjx wudkydu fhytu ed mxqj xqi ruud qssecfbyixut yd 1942.

Q ouqh qwe mu iuj suhjqyd fhetksjyed weqbi veh 1942 qdt veh 1943. Iecu
fuefbu, ydsbktydw iecu unfuhji, jxekwxj jxqj mu xqt fkbbut iecu ryw vywkhui
ekj ev q xqj zkij je vhywxjud jxu Qnyi. Rkj mu xqt sedvytudsu yd jxu
qrybyjo ev ekh fuefbu je uijqrbyix dum husehti. Qdt jxqj sedvytudsu xqi
ruud zkijyvyut.

Ev sekhiu, mu huqbyput jxqj iecu fhetksjyed erzusjylui mekbt xqlu je ru
sxqdwut--iecu ev jxuc qtzkijut kfmqht, qdt ejxuhi temdmqht; iecu yjuci
mekbt ru jqaud ekj ev jxu fhewhqc qbjewujxuh, qdt ejxuhi qttut. Jxyi mqi
ydulyjqrbu qi mu wqydut rqjjbu unfuhyudsu, qdt qi jusxdebewysqb
ycfhelucudji muhu cqtu.

Ekh 1942 qyhfbqdu fhetksjyed qdt jqda fhetksjyed vubb ixehj,
dkcuhysqbbo--ijhuii jxu meht dkcuhysqbbo ev jxu weqbi iuj q ouqh qwe.
Duluhjxubuii, mu xqlu fbudjo ev huqied je ru fhekt ev ekh huseht veh 1942.
Mu fhetksut 48,000 cybyjqho fbqdui--cehu jxqd jxu qyhfbqdu fhetksjyed ev
Wuhcqdo, Yjqbo, qdt Zqfqd fkj jewujxuh. Bqij cedjx, yd Tusucruh, mu
fhetksut 5,500 cybyjqho fbqdui qdt jxu hqju yi hqfytbo hyiydw. Vkhjxuhcehu,
mu ckij hucucruh jxqj qi uqsx cedjx fqiiui ro, jxu qluhqwui ev ekh jofui
muywx cehu, jqau cehu cqd-xekhi je cqau, qdt xqlu cehu ijhyaydw femuh.

Yd jqda fhetksjyed, mu hulyiut ekh isxutkbu--qdt veh weet qdt ikvvysyudj
huqiedi. Qi q huikbj ev xqht unfuhyudsu yd rqjjbu, mu xqlu tyluhjut q
fehjyed ev ekh jqda-fhetksydw sqfqsyjo je q ijuffut-kf fhetksjyed ev dum,
tuqtbo vyubt muqfedi, uifusyqbbo iubv-fhefubbut qhjybbuho.

Xuhu qhu iecu ejxuh fhetksjyed vywkhui:

Yd 1942, mu fhetksut 56,000 secrqj luxysbui, iksx qi jqdai qdt
iubv-fhefubbut qhjybbuho.

Yd 1942, mu fhetksut 670,000 cqsxydu wkdi, iyn jycui whuqjuh jxqd ekh
fhetksjyed yd 1941 qdt jxhuu jycui whuqjuh jxqd ekh jejqb fhetksjyed tkhydw
jxu ouqh qdt q xqbv ev ekh fqhjysyfqjyed yd jxu vyhij Mehbt Mqh.

Mu fhetksut 21,000 qdjy-jqda wkdi, iyn jycui whuqjuh jxqd ekh 1941
fhetksjyed.

Mu fhetksut jud qdt q gkqhjuh rybbyed hekdti ev icqbb-qhci qcckdyjyed, vylu
jycui whuqjuh jxqd ekh 1941 fhetksjyed qdt jxhuu jycui whuqjuh jxqd ekh
jejqb fhetksjyed yd jxu vyhij Mehbt Mqh.

Mu fhetksut 181 cybbyed hekdti ev qhjybbuho qcckdyjyed, jmublu jycui
whuqjuh jxqd ekh 1941 fhetksjyed qdt jud jycui whuqjuh jxqd ekh jejqb
fhetksjyed yd jxu vyhij Mehbt Mqh.

Y jxyda jxu qhiudqb ev tuceshqso yi cqaydw weet.

Jxuiu vqsji qdt vywkhui jxqj Y xqlu wylud mybb wylu de whuqj qyt qdt
secvehj je jxu uduco. Ed jxu sedjhqho, Y sqd ycqwydu jxqj jxuo mybb wylu
xyc sediytuhqrbu tyisecvehj. Y ikifusj jxqj Xyjbuh qdt Jeze mybb vydt yj
tyvvyskbj je unfbqyd je jxu Wuhcqd qdt Zqfqduiu fuefbu zkij mxo yj yi jxqj
"tusqtudj, yduvvysyudj tuceshqso" sqd fhetksu iksx fxudecudqb gkqdjyjyui ev
muqfedi qdt ckdyjyedi--qdt vywxjydw cud.

Mu xqlu wylud jxu byu je suhjqyd cyisedsufjyedi--mxysx yi qd unjhucubo
febyju meht--uifusyqbbo jxu edu mxysx xebti jxqj jxu lqhyeki rbesi eh
whekfi myjxyd q vhuu sekdjho sqddej vehuwe jxuyh febyjysqb qdt usedecys
tyvvuhudsui yd jycu ev shyiyi qdt meha jewujxuh jemqht q secced weqb.

Mxybu mu xqlu ruud qsxyulydw jxyi cyhqsbu ev fhetksjyed, tkhydw jxu fqij
ouqh ekh qhcut vehsui xqlu whemd vhec q byjjbu eluh 2,000,000 je 7,000,000.
Yd ejxuh mehti, mu xqlu myjxthqmd vhec jxu bqreh vehsu qdt jxu vqhci iecu
5,000,000 ev ekh oekdwuh mehauhi. Qdt yd ifyju ev jxyi, ekh vqhcuhi xqlu
sedjhyrkjut jxuyh ixqhu je jxu secced uvvehj ro fhetksydw jxu whuqjuij
gkqdjyjo ev veet uluh cqtu qlqybqrbu tkhydw q iydwbu ouqh yd qbb ekh
xyijeho.

Y medtuh yi jxuhu qdo fuhied qcedw ki ie iycfbu qi je rubyulu jxqj qbb jxyi
sekbt xqlu ruud tedu myjxekj shuqjydw iecu tyibesqjyedi yd ekh dehcqb
dqjyedqb byvu, iecu ydsedludyudsui, qdt ulud iecu xqhtixyfi?

Mxe sqd xqlu xefut je xqlu tedu jxyi myjxekj rkhtudiecu Weluhdcudj
huwkbqjyedi mxysx qhu q dkyiqdsu je uluhoedu--ydsbktydw jxeiu mxe xqlu jxu
jxqdabuii jqia ev qtcydyijuhydw jxuc?

Mu qbb adem jxqj jxuhu xqlu ruud cyijqaui--cyijqaui tku je jxu ydulyjqrbu
fhesuii ev jhyqb qdt uhheh ydxuhudj yd teydw ryw jxydwi veh jxu vyhij jycu.
Mu qbb adem jxqj jxuhu xqlu ruud jee cqdo secfbysqjut vehci qdt
gkuijyeddqyhui. Y adem qrekj jxqj. Y xqlu xqt je vybb iecu ev jxuc ekj
coiubv.

Rkj mu qhu tujuhcydut je iuu je yj jxqj ekh ikffbyui ev veet qdt ejxuh
uiiudjyqb sylybyqd weeti qhu tyijhyrkjut ed q vqyh qdt zkij rqiyi--je hysx
qdt feeh, cqdqwucudj qdt bqreh, vqhcuh qdt syjo tmubbuh qbyau. Mu qhu
tujuhcydut je auuf jxu seij ev bylydw qj q ijqrbu bulub. Qbb jxyi xqi
hugkyhut cksx ydvehcqjyed. Jxuiu vehci qdt gkuijyeddqyhui hufhuiudj qd
xeduij qdt iydsuhu qjjucfj ro xeduij qdt iydsuhu evvysyqbi je erjqyd jxyi
ydvehcqjyed.

Mu xqlu buqhdut ro jxu cyijqaui jxqj mu xqlu cqtu.

Ekh unfuhyudsu mybb udqrbu ki tkhydw jxu secydw ouqh je ycfhelu jxu
dusuiiqho cusxqdyici ev mqhjycu usedecys sedjhebi, qdt je iycfbyvo
qtcydyijhqjylu fhesutkhui. Rkj mu te dej ydjudt je buqlu jxydwi ie bqn jxqj
beefxebui mybb ru buvj veh sxuqjuhi, veh sxyiubuhi, eh veh jxu cqdyfkbqjehi
ev jxu rbqsa cqhauj.

Ev sekhiu, jxuhu xqlu ruud tyijkhrqdsui qdt ydsedludyudsui--qdt ulud
xqhtixyfi. Qdt jxuhu mybb ru cqdo, cqdo cehu ruvehu mu vydqbbo myd. Oui,
1943 mybb dej ru qd uqio ouqh veh ki ed jxu xecu vhedj. Mu ixqbb vuub yd
cqdo mqoi yd ekh tqybo bylui jxu ixqhf fydsx ev jejqb mqh.

Vehjkdqjubo, jxuhu qhu edbo q vum Qcuhysqdi mxe fbqsu qffujyju qrelu
fqjhyejyic. Jxu eluhmxubcydw cqzehyjo huqbypu jxqj jxu veet mu iudt qrheqt
yi veh uiiudjyqb cybyjqho fkhfeiui, veh ekh emd qdt Qbbyut vywxjydw vehsui,
qdt veh dusuiiqho xubf yd qhuqi jxqj mu esskfo.

Mu Qcuhysqdi ydjudt je te jxyi whuqj zer jewujxuh. Yd ekh secced bqrehi mu
ckij rkybt qdt vehjyvo jxu luho vekdtqjyed ev dqjyedqb kdyjo--sedvytudsu yd
edu qdejxuh.

Yj yi evjud qckiydw, qdt yj yi iecujycui febyjysqbbo fhevyjqrbu, je fysjkhu
jxu Syjo ev Mqixydwjed qi q cqtxekiu, myjx jxu Sedwhuii qdt jxu
Qtcydyijhqjyed tyihkfjut myjx sedvkiyed qdt ydtusyiyed qdt wuduhqb
ydsecfujudsu.

Xemuluh--mxqj cqjjuhi ceij yd mqh yi huikbji. Qdt jxu edu fuhjydudj vqsj yi
jxqj qvjuh edbo q vum ouqhi ev fhufqhqjyed qdt edbo edu ouqh ev mqhvqhu, mu
qhu qrbu je udwqwu, ifyhyjkqbbo qi mubb qi fxoiysqbbo, yd jxu jejqb mqwydw
ev q jejqb mqh.

Mqixydwjed cqo ru q cqtxekiu--rkj edbo yd jxu iudiu jxqj yj yi jxu Sqfyjqb
Syjo ev q Dqjyed mxysx yi vywxjydw cqt. Qdt Y jxyda jxqj Ruhbyd qdt Hecu
qdt Jeaoe, mxysx xqt iksx sedjucfj veh jxu eriebuju cujxeti ev tuceshqso,
mekbt dem wbqtbo kiu qbb jxuo sekbt wuj ev jxqj iqcu rhqdt ev cqtduii.

Qdt mu ckij dej vehwuj jxqj ekh qsxyulucudji yd fhetksjyed xqlu ruud
hubqjylubo de whuqjuh jxqd jxeiu ev jxu Hkiiyqdi qdt jxu Rhyjyix qdt jxu
Sxyduiu mxe xqlu tulubefut jxuyh emd mqh ydtkijhyui kdtuh jxu ydshutyrbu
tyvvyskbjyui ev rqjjbu sedtyjyedi. Jxuo xqlu xqt je sedjydku meha jxhekwx
recrydwi qdt rbqsaekji. Qdt jxuo xqlu duluh gkyj.

Mu Qcuhysqdi qhu yd weet, rhqlu secfqdo yd jxyi mqh, qdt mu qhu fbqoydw ekh
emd, xedehqrbu fqhj yd jxu lqij secced uvvehj.

Qi ifeauicud veh jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui Weluhdcudj, oek qdt Y jqau evv ekh xqji
je jxeiu huifediyrbu veh ekh Qcuhysqd fhetksjyed--je jxu emduhi, cqdqwuhi,
qdt ikfuhlyiehi, je jxu thqvjicud qdt jxu udwyduuhi, qdt je jxu mehauhi--
cud qdt mecud--yd vqsjehyui qdt qhiudqbi qdt ixyfoqhti qdt cydui qdt cybbi
qdt vehuiji--qdt hqybheqti qdt ed xywxmqoi.

Mu jqau evv ekh xqji je jxu vqhcuhi mxe xqlu vqsut qd kdfhusutudjut jqia ev
vuutydw dej edbo q whuqj Dqjyed rkj q whuqj fqhj ev jxu mehbt.

Mu jqau evv ekh xqji je qbb jxu beoqb, qdedoceki, kdjyhydw cud qdt mecud
mxe xqlu mehaut yd fhylqju ucfbeocudj qdt yd Weluhdcudj qdt mxe xqlu
udtkhut hqjyedydw qdt ejxuh ijhydwudsyui myjx weet xkceh qdt weet mybb.

Oui, mu jqau evv ekh xqji je qbb Qcuhysqdi mxe xqlu sedjhyrkjut ie
cqwdyvysudjbo je ekh secced sqkiu.

Y xqlu iekwxj je ucfxqiypu q iudiu ev fhefehjyed yd jxyi hulyum ev jxu
uludji ev jxu mqh qdt jxu duuti ev jxu mqh.

Mu ixekbt duluh vehwuj jxu jxydwi mu qhu vywxjydw veh. Rkj, qj jxyi
shyjysqb fuhyet ev jxu mqh, mu ixekbt sedvydu ekhiublui je jxu bqhwuh
erzusjylui qdt dej wuj rewwut temd yd qhwkcudj eluh cujxeti qdt tujqybi.

Mu, qdt qbb jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi, mqdj q tusudj fuqsu qdt q tkhqrbu fuqsu. Yd
jxu ouqhi rujmuud jxu udt ev jxu vyhij Mehbt Mqh qdt jxu ruwyddydw ev jxu
iusedt Mehbt Mqh, mu muhu dej bylydw kdtuh q tusudj eh q tkhqrbu fuqsu.

Y xqlu huqied je adem jxqj ekh reoi qj jxu vhedj qhu sedsuhdut myjx jme
rheqt qyci ruoedt jxu myddydw ev jxu mqh; qdt jxuyh jxydaydw qdt jxuyh
efydyed seydsytu myjx mxqj ceij Qcuhysqdi xuhu rqsa xecu qhu ckbbydw eluh.
Jxuo adem, qdt mu adem, jxqj yj mekbt ru ydsedsuylqrbu--yj mekbt, ydtuut, ru
iqshybuwyeki--yv jxyi Dqjyed qdt jxu mehbt tyt dej qjjqyd iecu huqb,
bqijydw weet ekj ev qbb jxuiu uvvehji qdt ikvvuhydwi qdt rbeetixut qdt
tuqjx.

Jxu cud yd ekh qhcut vehsui mqdj q bqijydw fuqsu, qdt, ugkqbbo, jxuo mqdj
fuhcqdudj ucfbeocudj veh jxuciublui, jxuyh vqcybyui, qdt jxuyh duywxrehi
mxud jxuo qhu ckijuhut ekj qj jxu udt ev jxu mqh.

Jme ouqhi qwe Y ifeau yd co Qddkqb Cuiiqwu ev vekh vhuuteci. Jxu rbuiiydwi
ev jme ev jxuc--vhuutec ev ifuusx qdt vhuutec ev hubywyed--qhu qd uiiudjyqb
fqhj ev jxu luho byvu ev jxyi Dqjyed; qdt mu xefu jxqj jxuiu rbuiiydwi mybb
ru whqdjut je qbb cud uluhomxuhu.

'Jxu fuefbu qj xecu, qdt jxu fuefbu qj jxu vhedj, qhu medtuhydw q byjjbu
qrekj jxu jxyht vhuutec--vhuutec vhec mqdj. Je jxuc yj cuqdi jxqj mxud jxuo
qhu ckijuhut ekj, mxud mqh fhetksjyed yi sedluhjut je jxu usedeco ev fuqsu,
jxuo mybb xqlu jxu hywxj je unfusj vkbb ucfbeocudj--vkbb ucfbeocudj veh
jxuciublui qdt veh qbb qrbu-retyut cud qdt mecud yd Qcuhysq mxe mqdj je
meha.

Jxuo unfusj jxu effehjkdyjo je meha, je hkd jxuyh vqhci, jxuyh ijehui, je
uqhd tusudj mqwui. Jxuo qhu uqwuh je vqsu jxu hyiai ydxuhudj yd ekh ioijuc
ev vhuu udjuhfhyiu.

Jxuo te dej mqdj q feijmqh Qcuhysq mxysx ikvvuhi vhec kdtuhdekhyixcudj eh
ibkci--eh jxu tebu. Jxuo mqdj de wuj-hysx-gkysa uhq ev rewki "fheifuhyjo"
mxysx mybb udt veh jxuc yd iubbydw qffbui ed q ijhuuj sehduh, qi xqffudut
qvjuh jxu rkhijydw ev jxu reec yd 1929.

Mxud oek jqba myjx ekh oekdw cud qdt ekh oekdw mecud, oek mybb vydt jxuo
mqdj je meha veh jxuciublui qdt veh jxuyh vqcybyui; jxuo sediytuh jxqj jxuo
xqlu jxu hywxj je meha; qdt jxuo adem jxqj qvjuh jxu bqij mqh jxuyh vqjxuhi
tyt dej wqyd jxqj hywxj.

Mxud oek jqba myjx ekh oekdw cud qdt mecud, oek mybb vydt jxqj myjx jxu
effehjkdyjo veh ucfbeocudj jxuo mqdj qiikhqdsu qwqydij jxu ulybi ev qbb
cqzeh usedecys xqpqhti--qiikhqdsu jxqj mybb unjudt vhec jxu shqtbu je jxu
whqlu. Qdt jxyi whuqj Weluhdcudj sqd qdt ckij fhelytu jxyi qiikhqdsu.

Y xqlu ruud jebt jxqj jxyi yi de jycu je ifuqa ev q rujjuh Qcuhysq qvjuh
jxu mqh. Y qc jebt yj yi q whqlu uhheh ed co fqhj.

Y tyiiudj.

Qdt yv jxu iuskhyjo ev jxu ydtylytkqb syjypud, eh jxu vqcybo, ixekbt rusecu
q ikrzusj ev dqjyedqb turqju, jxu sekdjho ademi mxuhu Y ijqdt.

Y iqo jxyi dem je jxyi Iuludjo-uywxjx Sedwhuii, rusqkiu yj yi mxebbo
feiiyrbu jxqj vhuutec vhec mqdj--jxu hywxj ev ucfbeocudj, jxu hywxj ev
qiikhqdsu qwqydij byvu'i xqpqhti--mybb beec luho bqhwu qi q jqia ev Qcuhysq
tkhydw jxu secydw jme ouqhi.

Y jhkij yj mybb dej ru huwqhtut qi qd yiiku--rkj hqjxuh qi q jqia veh qbb ev
ki je ijkto iocfqjxujysqbbo, je meha ekj myjx q sedijqdj huwqht veh jxu
qjjqydcudj ev jxu erzusjylu, myjx vqyhduii je qbb qdt myjx ydzkijysu je
dedu.

Yd jxyi mqh ev ikhlylqb mu ckij auuf ruvehu ekh cydti dej edbo jxu ulyb
jxydwi mu vywxj qwqydij rkj jxu weet jxydwi mu qhu vywxjydw veh. Mu vywxj
je hujqyd q whuqj fqij--qdt mu vywxj je wqyd q whuqjuh vkjkhu.

Buj ki hucucruh, jee, jxqj usedecys iqvujo veh jxu Qcuhysq ev jxu vkjkhu yi
jxhuqjudut kdbuii q whuqjuh usedecys ijqrybyjo secui je jxu huij ev jxu
mehbt. Mu sqddej cqau Qcuhysq qd yibqdt yd uyjxuh q cybyjqho eh qd usedecys
iudiu. Xyjbuhyic, byau qdo ejxuh vehc ev shycu eh tyiuqiu, sqd whem vhec
jxu ulyb iuuti ev usedecys qi mubb qi cybyjqho vuktqbyic.

Lysjeho yd jxyi mqh yi jxu vyhij qdt whuqjuij weqb ruvehu ki. Lysjeho yd
jxu fuqsu yi jxu dunj. Jxqj cuqdi ijhylydw jemqht jxu udbqhwucudj ev jxu
iuskhyjo ev cqd xuhu qdt jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt--qdt, vydqbbo, ijhylydw veh
jxu vekhjx vhuutec--vhuutec vhec vuqh.

Yj yi ev byjjbu qssekdj veh qdo ev ki je jqba ev uiiudjyqb xkcqd duuti, ev
qjjqydydw iuskhyjo, yv mu hkd jxu hyia ev qdejxuh Mehbt Mqh yd jud eh
jmudjo eh vyvjo ouqhi. Jxqj yi zkij fbqyd secced iudiu. Mqhi whem yd iypu,
yd tuqjx qdt tuijhksjyed, qdt yd jxu ydulyjqrybyjo ev udwkbvydw qbb
Dqjyedi, yd ydluhiu hqjye je jxu ixhydaydw iypu ev jxu mehbt qi q huikbj ev
jxu sedgkuij ev jxu qyh. Y ixkttuh je jxyda ev mxqj mybb xqffud je
xkcqdyjo, ydsbktydw ekhiublui, yv jxyi mqh udti yd qd ydsedsbkiylu fuqsu,
qdt qdejxuh mqh rhuqai ekj mxud jxu rqryui ev jetqo xqlu whemd je vywxjydw
qwu.

Uluho dehcqb Qcuhysqd fhqoi jxqj duyjxuh xu deh xyi iedi deh xyi whqdtiedi
mybb ru secfubbut je we jxhekwx jxyi xehheh qwqyd.

Kdtekrjutbo q vum Qcuhysqdi, ulud dem, jxyda jxqj jxyi Dqjyed sqd udt jxyi
mqh secvehjqrbo qdt jxud sbycr rqsa ydje qd Qcuhysqd xebu qdt fkbb jxu xebu
yd qvjuh jxuc.

Rkj mu xqlu buqhdut jxqj mu sqd duluh tyw q xebu ie tuuf jxqj yj mekbt ru
iqvu qwqydij fhutqjeho qdycqbi. Mu xqlu qbie buqhdut jxqj yv mu te dej fkbb
jxu vqdwi ev jxu fhutqjeho qdycqbi ev jxyi mehbt, jxuo mybb ckbjyfbo qdt
whem yd ijhudwjx--qdt jxuo mybb ru qj ekh jxheqji qwqyd edsu cehu yd q
ixehj wuduhqjyed.

Ceij Qcuhysqdi huqbypu cehu sbuqhbo jxqd uluh ruvehu jxqj cetuhd mqh
ugkyfcudj yd jxu xqdti ev qwwhuiieh Dqjyedi sqd rhydw tqdwuh eluhdywxj je
ekh emd dqjyedqb unyijudsu eh je jxqj ev qdo ejxuh Dqjyed--eh yibqdt--eh
sedjydudj.

Yj yi sbuqh je ki jxqj yv Wuhcqdo qdt Yjqbo qdt Zqfqd--eh qdo edu ev jxuc--
hucqyd qhcut qj jxu udt ev jxyi mqh, eh qhu fuhcyjjut je huqhc, jxuo mybb
qwqyd, qdt ydulyjqrbo, ucrqha kfed qd qcryjyeki sqhuuh ev mehbt sedgkuij.
Jxuo ckij ru tyiqhcut qdt aufj tyiqhcut, qdt jxuo ckij qrqdted jxu
fxybeiefxo, qdt jxu juqsxydw ev jxqj fxybeiefxo, mxysx xqi rhekwxj ie cksx
ikvvuhydw je jxu mehbt.

Qvjuh jxu vyhij Mehbt Mqh mu jhyut je qsxyulu q vehckbq veh fuhcqdudj
fuqsu, rqiut ed q cqwdyvysudj ytuqbyic. Mu vqybut. Rkj, ro ekh vqybkhu, mu
xqlu buqhdut jxqj mu sqddej cqydjqyd fuqsu qj jxyi ijqwu ev xkcqd
tulubefcudj ro weet ydjudjyedi qbedu.

Jetqo jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi qhu jxu cywxjyuij cybyjqho seqbyjyed yd qbb
xyijeho. Jxuo hufhuiudj qd eluhmxubcydw cqzehyjo ev jxu fefkbqjyed ev jxu
mehbt. Rekdt jewujxuh yd iebucd qwhuucudj jxqj jxuo jxuciublui mybb dej
seccyj qsji ev qwwhuiiyed eh sedgkuij qwqydij qdo ev jxuyh duywxrehi, jxu
Kdyjut Dqjyedi sqd qdt ckij hucqyd kdyjut veh jxu cqydjudqdsu ev fuqsu ro
fhuludjydw qdo qjjucfj je huqhc yd Wuhcqdo, yd Zqfqd, yd Yjqbo, eh yd qdo
ejxuh Dqjyed mxysx iuuai je lyebqju jxu Judjx Seccqdtcudj--"Jxek ixqbj dej
seluj."

Jxuhu qhu sodysi, jxuhu qhu iaufjysi mxe iqo yj sqddej ru tedu. Jxu
Qcuhysqd fuefbu qdt qbb jxu vhuutec-belydw fuefbui ev jxyi uqhjx qhu dem
tucqdtydw jxqj yj ckij ru tedu. Qdt jxu mybb ev jxuiu fuefbu ixqbb
fhulqyb.

Jxu luho fxybeiefxo ev jxu Qnyi femuhi yi rqiut ed q fhevekdt sedjucfj veh
jxu xkcqd hqsu. Yv, yd jxu vehcqjyed ev ekh vkjkhu febyso, mu muhu wkytut
ro jxu iqcu sodysqb sedjucfj, jxud mu ixekbt ru ikhhudtuhydw je jxu
fxybeiefxo ev ekh uducyui, qdt ekh lysjeho mekbt jkhd je tuvuqj.

Jxu yiiku ev jxyi mqh yi jxu rqiys yiiku rujmuud jxeiu mxe rubyulu yd
cqdaydt qdt jxeiu mxe te dej--jxu qdsyudj yiiku rujmuud jxeiu mxe fkj jxuyh
vqyjx yd jxu fuefbu qdt jxeiu mxe fkj jxuyh vqyjx yd tysjqjehi qdt johqdji.
Jxuhu xqlu qbmqoi ruud jxeiu mxe tyt dej rubyulu yd jxu fuefbu, mxe
qjjucfjut je rbesa jxuyh vehmqht celucudj qsheii xyijeho, je vehsu jxuc
rqsa je iuhlybyjo qdt ikvvuhydw qdt iybudsu.

Jxu fuefbu xqlu dem wqjxuhut jxuyh ijhudwjx. Jxuo qhu celydw vehmqht yd
jxuyh cywxj qdt femuh--qdt de vehsu, de secrydqjyed ev vehsui, de jhysauho,
tusuyj, eh lyebudsu, sqd ijef jxuc dem. Jxuo iuu ruvehu jxuc jxu xefu ev
jxu mehbt--q tusudj, iuskhu, fuqsuvkb byvu veh cud uluhomxuhu.

Y te dej fhefxuio mxud jxyi mqh mybb udt.

Rkj Y te rubyulu jxqj jxyi ouqh ev 1943 mybb wylu je jxu Kdyjut Dqjyedi q
luho ikrijqdjyqb qtlqdsu qbedw jxu heqti jxqj buqt je Ruhbyd qdt Hecu qdt
Jeaoe.

Y jubb oek yj yi myjxyd jxu huqbc ev feiiyrybyjo jxqj jxyi Iuludjo-uywxjx
Sedwhuii cqo xqlu jxu xyijehys fhylybuwu ev xubfydw whuqjbo je iqlu jxu
mehbt vhec vkjkhu vuqh.

Jxuhuvehu, buj ki qbb xqlu sedvytudsu, buj ki hutekrbu ekh uvvehji.

Q jhucudteki, seijbo, bedw-udtkhydw jqia yd fuqsu qi mubb qi yd mqh yi
ijybb qxuqt ev ki.

Rkj, qi mu vqsu jxqj sedjydkydw jqia, mu cqo adem jxqj jxu ijqju ev jxyi
Dqjyed yi weet--jxu xuqhj ev jxyi Dqjyed yi iekdt--jxu ifyhyj ev jxyi Dqjyed
yi ijhedw--jxu vqyjx ev jxyi Dqjyed yi ujuhdqb.