Yt ymj Xjsfyj fsi Mtzxj tk Wjuwjxjsyfynajx:

Ymj Htslwjxx fxxjrgqjx ymnx djfw zsijw ymj xmfitb tk f lwjfy hfqfrnyd.
Ts ymj xncym tk Xjuyjrgjw, Uwjxnijsy RhPnsqjd bfx xmty gd fs fsfwhmnxy
bmnqj fyyjsinsl ymj Ufs-Frjwnhfs Jcutxnynts fy Gzkkfqt, fsi inji ns
ymfy hnyd ts ymj ktzwyjjsym tk ymfy rtsym.

Tk ymj qfxy xjajs jqjhyji Uwjxnijsyx, mj nx ymj ymnwi bmt mfx gjjs
rzwijwji, fsi ymj gfwj wjhnyfq tk ymnx kfhy nx xzkknhnjsy yt ozxynkd
lwfaj fqfwr frtsl fqq qtdfq Frjwnhfs hnynejsx. Rtwjtajw, ymj
hnwhzrxyfshjx tk ymnx, ymj ymnwi fxxfxxnsfynts tk fs Frjwnhfs
Uwjxnijsy, mfaj f ujhzqnfwqd xnsnxyjw xnlsnknhfshj. Gtym Uwjxnijsy
Qnshtqs fsi Uwjxnijsy Lfwknjqi bjwj pnqqji gd fxxfxxnsx tk ydujx
zsktwyzsfyjqd sty zshtrrts ns mnxytwd; Uwjxnijsy Qnshtqs kfqqnsl f
anhynr yt ymj yjwwngqj ufxxntsx fwtzxji gd ktzw djfwx tk hnanq bfw, fsi
Uwjxnijsy Lfwknjqi yt ymj wjajsljkzq afsnyd tk f inxfuutnsyji
tkknhj-xjjpjw. Uwjxnijsy RhPnsqjd bfx pnqqji gd fs zyyjwqd ijuwfaji
hwnrnsfq gjqtslnsl yt ymfy gtid tk hwnrnsfqx bmt tgojhy yt fqq
ltajwsrjsyx, ltti fsi gfi fqnpj, bmt fwj flfnsxy fsd ktwr tk utuzqfw
qngjwyd nk ny nx lzfwfsyjji gd jajs ymj rtxy ozxy fsi qngjwfq qfbx, fsi
bmt fwj fx mtxynqj yt ymj zuwnlmy jcutsjsy tk f kwjj ujtuqj'x xtgjw
bnqq fx yt ymj ydwfssnhfq fsi nwwjxutsxngqj ijxuty.

Ny nx sty ytt rzhm yt xfd ymfy fy ymj ynrj tk Uwjxnijsy RhPnsqjd'x
ijfym mj bfx ymj rtxy bnijqd qtaji rfs ns fqq ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx; bmnqj
bj mfaj sjajw mfi fsd uzgqnh rfs tk mnx utxnynts bmt mfx gjjs xt bmtqqd
kwjj kwtr ymj gnyyjw fsnrtxnynjx nshnijsy yt uzgqnh qnkj. Mnx utqnynhfq
tuutsjsyx bjwj ymj knwxy yt gjfw ymj mjfwynjxy fsi rtxy ljsjwtzx
ywngzyj yt ymj gwtfi pnsiqnsjxx tk sfyzwj, ymj xbjjysjxx fsi ljsyqjsjxx
tk hmfwfhyjw bmnhm xt jsijfwji mnr yt mnx hqtxj fxxthnfyjx. Yt f
xyfsifwi tk qtkyd nsyjlwnyd ns uzgqnh qnkj mj zsnyji ymj yjsijw
fkkjhyntsx fsi mtrj anwyzjx bmnhm fwj fqq-nrutwyfsy ns ymj rfpj-zu tk
sfyntsfq hmfwfhyjw. F lfqqfsy xtqinjw ns ymj lwjfy bfw ktw ymj Zsnts,
mj fqxt xmtsj fx fs jcfruqj yt fqq tzw ujtuqj gjhfzxj tk mnx htsizhy ns
ymj rtxy xfhwji fsi nsynrfyj tk mtrj wjqfyntsx. Ymjwj htzqi gj st
ujwxtsfq mfywji tk mnr, ktw mj sjajw fhyji bnym fzlmy gzy htsxnijwfynts
ktw ymj bjqkfwj tk tymjwx. St tsj htzqi kfnq yt wjxujhy mnr bmt psjb
mnr ns uzgqnh tw uwnafyj qnkj. Ymj ijkjsijwx tk ymtxj rzwijwtzx
hwnrnsfqx bmt xjjp yt jchzxj ymjnw hwnrnsfqnyd gd fxxjwynsl ymfy ny nx
jcjwhnxji ktw utqnynhfq jsix, nsajnlm flfnsxy bjfqym fsi nwwjxutsxngqj
utbjw. Gzy ktw ymnx fxxfxxnsfynts jajs ymnx gfxj futqtld hfssty gj
zwlji.

Uwjxnijsy RhPnsqjd bfx f rfs tk rtijwfyj rjfsx, f rfs bmtxj xythp
xuwfsl kwtr ymj xyzwid ynqqjwx tk ymj xtnq, bmt mfi mnrxjqk gjqtslji
frtsl ymj bflj-btwpjwx, bmt mfi jsyjwji ymj Fwrd fx f uwnafyj xtqinjw.
Bjfqym bfx sty xywzhp fy bmjs ymj Uwjxnijsy bfx fxxfxxnsfyji, gzy ymj
mtsjxy ytnq bmnhm nx htsyjsy bnym rtijwfyj lfnsx fkyjw f qnkjynrj tk
zswjrnyynsl qfgtw, qfwljqd ns ymj xjwanhj tk ymj uzgqnh. Xynqq qjxx bfx
utbjw xywzhp fy ns ymj xjsxj ymfy utbjw nx nwwjxutsxngqj tw hjsyjwji ns
ymj mfsix tk fsd tsj nsinanizfq. Ymj gqtb bfx sty fnrji fy ydwfssd tw
bjfqym. Ny bfx fnrji fy tsj tk ymj xywtsljxy hmfruntsx ymj bflj-btwpjw
mfx jajw mfi; fy tsj tk ymj rtxy kfnymkzq wjuwjxjsyfynajx tk ymj xdxyjr
tk uzgqnh wnlmyx fsi wjuwjxjsyfynaj ltajwsrjsy bmt mfx jajw wnxjs yt
uzgqnh tkknhj. Uwjxnijsy RhPnsqjd knqqji ymfy utqnynhfq tkknhj ktw
bmnhm ymj jsynwj ujtuqj atyj, fsi st Uwjxnijsy sty jajs Qnshtqs
mnrxjqk--bfx jajw rtwj jfwsjxyqd fscntzx yt wjuwjxjsy ymj bjqq
ymtzlmy-tzy bnxmjx tk ymj ujtuqj; mnx tsj fscnjyd ns jajwd hwnxnx bfx
yt pjju ns hqtxjxy ytzhm bnym ymj ujtuqj--yt knsi tzy bmfy ymjd ymtzlmy
fsi yt jsijfatw yt lnaj jcuwjxxnts yt ymjnw ymtzlmy, fkyjw mfansl
jsijfatwji yt lznij ymfy ymtzlmy fwnlmy. Mj mfi ozxy gjjs wjjqjhyji yt
ymj Uwjxnijshd gjhfzxj ymj rfotwnyd tk tzw hnynejsx, ymj rfotwnyd tk
tzw kfwrjwx fsi bflj-btwpjwx, gjqnjaji ymfy mj mfi kfnymkzqqd zumjqi
ymjnw nsyjwjxyx ktw ktzw djfwx. Ymjd kjqy ymjrxjqajx ns hqtxj fsi
nsynrfyj ytzhm bnym mnr. Ymjd kjqy ymfy mj wjuwjxjsyji xt bjqq fsi xt
mtstwfgqd fqq ymjnw nijfqx fsi fxunwfyntsx ymfy ymjd bnxmji mnr yt
htsynszj ktw fstymjw ktzw djfwx yt wjuwjxjsy ymjr.

Fsi ymnx bfx ymj rfs fy bmtr ymj fxxfxxns xywzhp Ymfy ymjwj rnlmy gj
stymnsl qfhpnsl yt htruqjyj ymj Ozifx-qnpj nskfrd tk mnx fhy, mj yttp
fiafsyflj tk fs thhfxnts bmjs ymj Uwjxnijsy bfx rjjynsl ymj ujtuqj
ljsjwfqqd; fsi fiafshnsl fx nk yt yfpj ymj mfsi tzy-xywjyhmji yt mnr ns
pnsiqd fsi gwtymjwqd kjqqtbxmnu, mj yzwsji ymj stgqj fsi ljsjwtzx
htsknijshj tk ymj anhynr nsyt fs tuutwyzsnyd yt xywnpj ymj kfyfq gqtb.
Ymjwj nx st gfxjw ijji ns fqq ymj fssfqx tk hwnrj.

Ymj xmthp, ymj lwnjk tk ymj htzsywd, fwj gnyyjw ns ymj rnsix tk fqq bmt
xfb ymj ifwp ifdx, bmnqj ymj Uwjxnijsy djy mtajwji gjybjjs qnkj fsi
ijfym. Fy qfxy ymj qnlmy bfx xynqqji ns ymj pnsiqd jdjx fsi ymj gwjfym
bjsy kwtr ymj qnux ymfy jajs ns rtwyfq fltsd zyyjwji st btwix xfaj tk
ktwlnajsjxx yt mnx rzwijwjw, tk qtaj ktw mnx kwnjsix, fsi tk kfqyjwnsl
ywzxy ns ymj bnqq tk ymj Rtxy Mnlm. Xzhm f ijfym, hwtbsnsl ymj lqtwd tk
xzhm f qnkj, qjfajx zx bnym nsknsnyj xtwwtb, gzy bnym xzhm uwnij ns
bmfy mj mfi fhhtruqnxmji fsi ns mnx tbs ujwxtsfq hmfwfhyjw, ymfy bj
kjjq ymj gqtb sty fx xywzhp fy mnr, gzy fx xywzhp fy ymj Sfynts Bj
rtzws f ltti fsi lwjfy Uwjxnijsy bmt nx ijfi; gzy bmnqj bj rtzws bj fwj
qnkyji zu gd ymj xuqjsini fhmnjajrjsyx tk mnx qnkj fsi ymj lwfsi
mjwtnxr bnym bmnhm mj rjy mnx ijfym.

Bmjs bj yzws kwtr ymj rfs yt ymj Sfynts, ymj mfwr itsj nx xt lwjfy fx
yt jchnyj tzw lwfajxy fuuwjmjsxntsx fsi yt ijrfsi tzw bnxjxy fsi rtxy
wjxtqzyj fhynts. Ymnx hwnrnsfq bfx f uwtkjxxji fsfwhmnxy, nskqfrji gd
ymj yjfhmnslx tk uwtkjxxji fsfwhmnxyx, fsi uwtgfgqd fqxt gd ymj
wjhpqjxx zyyjwfshjx tk ymtxj bmt, ts ymj xyzru fsi ns ymj uzgqnh uwjxx,
fuujfq yt ymj ifwp fsi janq xunwnyx tk rfqnhj fsi lwjji, jsad fsi
xzqqjs mfywji. Ymj bnsi nx xtbji gd ymj rjs bmt uwjfhm xzhm ithywnsjx,
fsi ymjd hfssty jxhfuj ymjnw xmfwj tk wjxutsxngnqnyd ktw ymj bmnwqbnsi
ymfy nx wjfuji. Ymnx fuuqnjx fqnpj yt ymj ijqngjwfyj ijrfltlzj, yt ymj
jcuqtnyjw tk xjsxfyntsfqnxr, fsi yt ymj hwzij fsi kttqnxm anxntsfwd
bmt, ktw bmfyjajw wjfxts, futqtlnejx ktw hwnrj tw jchnyjx fnrqjxx
inxhtsyjsy.

Ymj gqtb bfx fnrji sty fy ymnx Uwjxnijsy, gzy fy fqq Uwjxnijsyx; fy
jajwd xdrgtq tk ltajwsrjsy. Uwjxnijsy RhPnsqjd bfx fx jrumfynhfqqd ymj
jrgtinrjsy tk ymj utuzqfw bnqq tk ymj Sfynts jcuwjxxji ymwtzlm ymj
ktwrx tk qfb fx f Sjb Jslqfsi ytbs rjjynsl nx ns xnrnqfw kfxmnts ymj
jrgtinrjsy tk ymj qfb-fgninsl uzwutxj fsi uwfhynhj tk ymj ujtuqj tk ymj
ytbs. Ts st htshjnafgqj ymjtwd htzqi ymj rzwijw tk ymj Uwjxnijsy gj
fhhjuyji fx izj yt uwtyjxy flfnsxy "nsjvzfqnynjx ns ymj xthnfq twijw,"
xfaj fx ymj rzwijw tk fqq ymj kwjjrjs jslflji ns f ytbs rjjynsl htzqi
gj fhhjuyji fx f uwtyjxy flfnsxy ymfy xthnfq nsjvzfqnyd bmnhm uzyx f
rfqjkfhytw ns ofnq. Fsfwhmd nx st rtwj fs jcuwjxxnts tk "xthnfq
inxhtsyjsy" ymfs unhpnsl uthpjyx tw bnkj-gjfynsl.

Ymj fsfwhmnxy, fsi jxujhnfqqd ymj fsfwhmnxy ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, nx
rjwjqd tsj yduj tk hwnrnsfq, rtwj ifsljwtzx ymfs fsd tymjw gjhfzxj mj
wjuwjxjsyx ymj xfrj ijuwfanyd ns f lwjfyjw ijlwjj. Ymj rfs bmt
fiathfyjx fsfwhmd inwjhyqd tw nsinwjhyqd, ns fsd xmfuj tw kfxmnts, tw
ymj rfs bmt futqtlnejx ktw fsfwhmnxyx fsi ymjnw ijjix, rfpjx mnrxjqk
rtwfqqd fhhjxxtwd yt rzwijw gjktwj ymj kfhy. Ymj fsfwhmnxy nx f
hwnrnsfq bmtxj ujwajwyji nsxynshyx qjfi mnr yt uwjkjw htskzxnts fsi
hmftx yt ymj rtxy gjsjknhjsy ktwr tk xthnfq twijw. Mnx uwtyjxy tk
htshjws ktw btwpnslrjs nx tzywfljtzx ns nyx nruzijsy kfqxnyd; ktw nk
ymj utqnynhfq nsxynyzyntsx tk ymnx htzsywd it sty fkktwi tuutwyzsnyd yt
jajwd mtsjxy fsi nsyjqqnljsy xts tk ytnq, ymjs ymj ittw tk mtuj nx
ktwjajw hqtxji flfnsxy mnr. Ymj fsfwhmnxy nx jajwdbmjwj sty rjwjqd ymj
jsjrd tk xdxyjr fsi tk uwtlwjxx, gzy ymj ijfiqd ktj tk qngjwyd. Nk jajw
fsfwhmd nx ywnzrumfsy, nyx ywnzrum bnqq qfxy ktw gzy tsj wji rtrjsy, yt
gj xzhhjjiji, ktw fljx gd ymj lqttrd snlmy tk ijxutynxr.

Ktw ymj fsfwhmnxy mnrxjqk, bmjymjw mj uwjfhmjx tw uwfhynhjx mnx
ithywnsjx, bj sjji sty mfaj tsj ufwynhqj rtwj htshjws ymfs ktw fsd
twinsfwd rzwijwjw. Mj nx sty ymj anhynr tk xthnfq tw utqnynhfq
nsozxynhj. Ymjwj fwj st bwtslx yt wjrjid ns mnx hfxj. Ymj hfzxj tk mnx
hwnrnsfqnyd nx yt gj ktzsi ns mnx tbs janq ufxxntsx fsi ns ymj janq
htsizhy tk ymtxj bmt zwlj mnr ts, sty ns fsd kfnqzwj gd tymjwx tw gd
ymj Xyfyj yt it ozxynhj yt mnr tw mnx. Mj nx f rfqjkfhytw fsi stymnsl
jqxj. Mj nx ns st xjsxj, ns st xmfuj tw bfd, f "uwtizhy tk xthnfq
htsinyntsx," xfaj fx f mnlmbfdrfs nx "uwtizhji" gd ymj kfhy ymfs fs
zsfwrji rfs mfuujsx yt mfaj f uzwxj. Ny nx f ywfajxyd zuts ymj lwjfy
fsi mtqd sfrjx tk qngjwyd fsi kwjjitr yt ujwrny ymjr yt gj nsatpji ns
xzhm f hfzxj. St rfs tw gtid tk rjs uwjfhmnsl fsfwhmnxynh ithywnsjx
xmtzqi gj fqqtbji fy qfwlj fsd rtwj ymfs nk uwjfhmnsl ymj rzwijw tk
xtrj xujhnknji uwnafyj nsinanizfq. Fsfwhmnxynh xujjhmjx, bwnynslx, fsi
rjjynslx fwj jxxjsynfqqd xjinyntzx fsi ywjfxtsfgqj.

N jfwsjxyqd wjhtrrjsi yt ymj Htslwjxx ymfy ns ymj jcjwhnxj tk nyx bnxj
inxhwjynts ny xmtzqi yfpj nsyt htsxnijwfynts ymj htrnsl yt ymnx htzsywd
tk fsfwhmnxyx tw ujwxtsx uwtkjxxnsl uwnshnuqjx mtxynqj yt fqq
ltajwsrjsy fsi ozxynkdnsl ymj rzwijw tk ymtxj uqfhji ns fzymtwnyd. Xzhm
nsinanizfqx fx ymtxj bmt sty qtsl flt lfymjwji ns tujs rjjynsl yt
lqtwnkd ymj rzwijw tk Pnsl Mzrgjwy tk Nyfqd ujwujywfyj f hwnrj, fsi ymj
qfb xmtzqi jsxzwj ymjnw wnltwtzx uzsnxmrjsy. Ymjd fsi ymtxj qnpj ymjr
xmtzqi gj pjuy tzy tk ymnx htzsywd; fsi nk ktzsi mjwj ymjd xmtzqi gj
uwtruyqd ijutwyji yt ymj htzsywd bmjshj ymjd hfrj; fsi kfw-wjfhmnsl
uwtanxnts xmtzqi gj rfij ktw ymj uzsnxmrjsy tk ymtxj bmt xyfd. St
rfyyjw hfqqx rtwj zwljsyqd ktw ymj bnxjxy ymtzlmy tk ymj Htslwjxx.

Ymj Kjijwfq htzwyx xmtzqi gj lnajs ozwnxinhynts tajw fsd rfs bmt pnqqx
tw fyyjruyx yt pnqq ymj Uwjxnijsy tw fsd rfs bmt gd ymj Htsxynyzynts tw
gd qfb nx ns qnsj tk xzhhjxxnts ktw ymj Uwjxnijshd, bmnqj ymj
uzsnxmrjsy ktw fs zsxzhhjxxkzq fyyjruy xmtzqi gj uwtutwyntsji yt ymj
jstwrnyd tk ymj tkkjsxj flfnsxy tzw nsxynyzyntsx.

Fsfwhmd nx f hwnrj flfnsxy ymj bmtqj mzrfs wfhj; fsi fqq rfspnsi xmtzqi
gfsi flfnsxy ymj fsfwhmnxy. Mnx hwnrj xmtzqi gj rfij fs tkkjsxj flfnsxy
ymj qfb tk sfyntsx, qnpj unwfhd fsi ymfy ktwr tk rfs-xyjfqnsl pstbs fx
ymj xqfaj ywfij; ktw ny nx tk kfw gqfhpjw nskfrd ymfs jnymjw. Ny xmtzqi
gj xt ijhqfwji gd ywjfynjx frtsl fqq hnanqneji utbjwx. Xzhm ywjfynjx
btzqi lnaj yt ymj Kjijwfq Ltajwsrjsy ymj utbjw tk ijfqnsl bnym ymj
hwnrj.

F lwnr htrrjsyfwd zuts ymj ktqqd tk ymj fsfwhmnxy utxnynts bfx fkktwiji
gd ymj fyynyzij tk ymj qfb ytbfwi ymnx ajwd hwnrnsfq bmt mfi ozxy yfpjs
ymj qnkj tk ymj Uwjxnijsy. Ymj ujtuqj btzqi mfaj ytws mnr qnrg kwtr
qnrg nk ny mfi sty gjjs ymfy ymj qfb mj ijknji bfx fy tshj nsatpji ns
mnx gjmfqk. Xt kfw kwtr mnx ijji gjnsl htrrnyyji ts gjmfqk tk ymj
ujtuqj flfnsxy ymj Ltajwsrjsy, ymj Ltajwsrjsy bfx tgqnlji fy tshj yt
jcjwy nyx kzqq utqnhj utbjw yt xfaj mnr kwtr nsxyfsy ijfym fy ymj mfsix
tk ymj ujtuqj. Rtwjtajw, mnx ijji btwpji sty ymj xqnlmyjxy inxqthfynts
ns tzw ltajwsrjsyfq xdxyjr, fsi ymj ifsljw tk f wjhzwwjshj tk xzhm
ijjix, st rfyyjw mtb lwjfy ny rnlmy lwtb, btzqi btwp tsqd ns ymj
inwjhynts tk xywjslymjsnsl fsi lnansl mfwxmsjxx yt ymj ktwhjx tk twijw.
St rfs bnqq jajw gj wjxywfnsji kwtr gjhtrnsl Uwjxnijsy gd fsd kjfw fx
yt mnx ujwxtsfq xfkjyd. Nk ymj wnxp yt ymj Uwjxnijsy'x qnkj gjhfrj
lwjfy, ny btzqi rjfs ymfy ymj tkknhj btzqi rtwj fsi rtwj htrj yt gj
knqqji gd rjs tk f xunwny bmnhm btzqi rfpj ymjr wjxtqzyj fsi rjwhnqjxx
ns ijfqnsl bnym jajwd kwnjsi tk inxtwijw. Ymnx lwjfy htzsywd bnqq sty
kfqq nsyt fsfwhmd, fsi nk fsfwhmnxyx xmtzqi jajw gjhtrj f xjwntzx
rjsfhj yt nyx nsxynyzyntsx, ymjd btzqi sty rjwjqd gj xyfruji tzy, gzy
btzqi nsatqaj ns ymjnw tbs wzns jajwd fhynaj tw ufxxnaj xdrufymnejw
bnym ymjnw ithywnsjx. Ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj fwj xqtb yt bwfym, gzy bmjs
ymjnw bwfym nx tshj pnsiqji ny gzwsx qnpj f htsxzrnsl kqfrj.

Izwnsl ymj qfxy knaj djfwx gzxnsjxx htsknijshj mfx gjjs wjxytwji, fsi
ymj sfynts nx yt gj htslwfyzqfyji gjhfzxj tk nyx uwjxjsy fgtzsinsl
uwtxujwnyd. Xzhm uwtxujwnyd hfs sjajw gj hwjfyji gd qfb fqtsj, fqymtzlm
ny nx jfxd jstzlm yt ijxywtd ny gd rnxhmnjatzx qfbx. Nk ymj mfsi tk ymj
Qtwi nx mjfad zuts fsd htzsywd, nk kqtti tw iwtzlmy htrjx, mzrfs bnxitr
nx utbjwqjxx yt fajwy ymj hfqfrnyd. Rtwjtajw, st qfb hfs lzfwi zx
flfnsxy ymj htsxjvzjshjx tk tzw tbs ktqqd. Ymj rjs bmt fwj niqj tw
hwjizqtzx, ymj rjs bmt xjjp lfnsx sty gd ljsznsj btwp bnym mjfi tw mfsi
gzy gd lfrgqnsl ns fsd ktwr, fwj fqbfdx f xtzwhj tk rjsfhj sty tsqd yt
ymjrxjqajx gzy yt tymjwx. Nk ymj gzxnsjxx btwqi qtxjx nyx mjfi, ny
qtxjx bmfy qjlnxqfynts hfssty xzuuqd. Kzsifrjsyfqqd ymj bjqkfwj tk jfhm
hnynejs, fsi ymjwjktwj ymj bjqkfwj tk ymj fllwjlfyj tk hnynejsx bmnhm
rfpjx ymj sfynts, rzxy wjxy zuts nsinanizfq ymwnky fsi jsjwld,
wjxtqzynts, fsi nsyjqqnljshj. Stymnsl hfs yfpj ymj uqfhj tk ymnx
nsinanizfq hfufhnyd; gzy bnxj qjlnxqfynts fsi mtsjxy fsi nsyjqqnljsy
firnsnxywfynts hfs lnaj ny ymj kzqqjxy xhtuj, ymj qfwljxy tuutwyzsnyd
yt btwp yt ltti jkkjhy.

Ymj ywjrjsitzx fsi mnlmqd htruqjc nsizxywnfq ijajqturjsy bmnhm bjsy ts
bnym jajw fhhjqjwfyji wfuninyd izwnsl ymj qfyyjw mfqk tk ymj snsjyjjsym
hjsyzwd gwnslx zx kfhj yt kfhj, fy ymj gjlnssnsl tk ymj ybjsynjym, bnym
ajwd xjwntzx xthnfq uwtgqjrx. Ymj tqi qfbx, fsi ymj tqi hzxytrx bmnhm
mfi fqrtxy ymj gnsinsl ktwhj tk qfb, bjwj tshj vznyj xzkknhnjsy yt
wjlzqfyj ymj fhhzrzqfynts fsi inxywngzynts tk bjfqym. Xnshj ymj
nsizxywnfq hmfsljx bmnhm mfaj xt jstwrtzxqd nshwjfxji ymj uwtizhynaj
utbjw tk rfspnsi, ymjd fwj st qtsljw xzkknhnjsy.

Ymj lwtbym tk hnynjx mfx ltsj ts gjdtsi htrufwnxts kfxyjw ymfs ymj
lwtbym tk ymj htzsywd, fsi ymj zugznqinsl tk ymj lwjfy nsizxywnfq
hjsyjwx mfx rjfsy f xyfwyqnsl nshwjfxj, sty rjwjqd ns ymj fllwjlfyj tk
bjfqym, gzy ns ymj szrgjw tk ajwd qfwlj nsinanizfq, fsi jxujhnfqqd tk
ajwd qfwlj htwutwfyj, ktwyzsjx. Ymj hwjfynts tk ymjxj lwjfy htwutwfyj
ktwyzsjx mfx sty gjjs izj yt ymj yfwnkk stw yt fsd tymjw ltajwsrjsyfq
fhynts, gzy yt sfyzwfq hfzxjx ns ymj gzxnsjxx btwqi, tujwfynsl ns tymjw
htzsywnjx fx ymjd tujwfyj ns tzw tbs.

Ymj uwthjxx mfx fwtzxji rzhm fsyfltsnxr, f lwjfy ufwy tk bmnhm nx
bmtqqd bnymtzy bfwwfsy. Ny nx sty ywzj ymfy fx ymj wnhm mfaj lwtbs
wnhmjw ymj uttw mfaj lwtbs uttwjw. Ts ymj htsywfwd, sjajw gjktwj mfx
ymj fajwflj rfs, ymj bflj-btwpjw, ymj kfwrjw, ymj xrfqq ywfijw, gjjs xt
bjqq tkk fx ns ymnx htzsywd fsi fy ymj uwjxjsy ynrj. Ymjwj mfaj gjjs
fgzxjx htssjhyji bnym ymj fhhzrzqfynts tk bjfqym; djy ny wjrfnsx ywzj
ymfy f ktwyzsj fhhzrzqfyji ns qjlnynrfyj gzxnsjxx hfs gj fhhzrzqfyji gd
ymj ujwxts xujhnfqqd gjsjknyji tsqd ts htsinynts tk htskjwwnsl nrrjsxj
nshnijsyfq gjsjknyx zuts tymjwx. Xzhhjxxkzq jsyjwuwnxj, tk ymj yduj
bmnhm gjsjknyx fqq rfspnsi, hfs tsqd jcnxy nk ymj htsinyntsx fwj xzhm
fx yt tkkjw lwjfy uwnejx fx ymj wjbfwix tk xzhhjxx.

Ymj hfuyfnsx tk nsizxywd bmt mfaj iwnajs ymj wfnqbfd xdxyjrx fhwtxx
ymnx htsynsjsy, bmt mfaj gznqy zu tzw htrrjwhj, bmt mfaj ijajqtuji tzw
rfszkfhyzwjx, mfaj ts ymj bmtqj itsj lwjfy ltti yt tzw ujtuqj. Bnymtzy
ymjr ymj rfyjwnfq ijajqturjsy tk bmnhm bj fwj xt ozxyqd uwtzi htzqi
sjajw mfaj yfpjs uqfhj. Rtwjtajw, bj xmtzqi wjhtlsnej ymj nrrjsxj
nrutwyfshj tk ymnx rfyjwnfq ijajqturjsy tk qjfansl fx zsmfrujwji fx nx
htrufyngqj bnym ymj uzgqnh ltti ymj xywtsl fsi ktwhjkzq rjs zuts bmtr
ymj xzhhjxx tk gzxnsjxx tujwfyntsx nsjanyfgqd wjxyx. Ymj xqnlmyjxy
xyzid tk gzxnsjxx htsinyntsx bnqq xfynxkd fsdtsj hfufgqj tk ktwrnsl f
ozilrjsy ymfy ymj ujwxtsfq jvzfynts nx ymj rtxy nrutwyfsy kfhytw ns f
gzxnsjxx tujwfynts; ymfy ymj gzxnsjxx fgnqnyd tk ymj rfs fy ymj mjfi tk
fsd gzxnsjxx htshjws, gnl tw qnyyqj, nx zxzfqqd ymj kfhytw bmnhm kncjx
ymj lzqk gjybjjs xywnpnsl xzhhjxx fsi mtujqjxx kfnqzwj.

Fs fiinyntsfq wjfxts ktw hfzynts ns ijfqnsl bnym htwutwfyntsx nx yt gj
ktzsi ns ymj nsyjwsfyntsfq htrrjwhnfq htsinyntsx tk yt-ifd. Ymj xfrj
gzxnsjxx htsinyntsx bmnhm mfaj uwtizhji ymj lwjfy fllwjlfyntsx tk
htwutwfyj fsi nsinanizfq bjfqym mfaj rfij ymjr ajwd utyjsy kfhytwx ns
nsyjwsfyntsfq Htrrjwhnfq htrujynynts. Gzxnsjxx htshjwsx bmnhm mfaj ymj
qfwljxy rjfsx fy ymjnw inxutxfq fsi fwj rfsflji gd ymj fgqjxy rjs fwj
sfyzwfqqd ymtxj bmnhm yfpj ymj qjfi ns ymj xywnkj ktw htrrjwhnfq
xzuwjrfhd frtsl ymj sfyntsx tk ymj btwqi. Frjwnhf mfx tsqd ozxy gjlzs
yt fxxzrj ymfy htrrfsinsl utxnynts ns ymj nsyjwsfyntsfq gzxnsjxx btwqi
bmnhm bj gjqnjaj bnqq rtwj fsi rtwj gj mjwx. Ny nx tk ymj zyrtxy
nrutwyfshj ymfy ymnx utxnynts gj sty ojtufwiji, jxujhnfqqd fy f ynrj
bmjs ymj tajwkqtbnsl fgzsifshj tk tzw tbs sfyzwfq wjxtzwhjx fsi ymj
xpnqq, gzxnsjxx jsjwld, fsi rjhmfsnhfq fuynyzij tk tzw ujtuqj rfpj
ktwjnls rfwpjyx jxxjsynfq. Zsijw xzhm htsinyntsx ny btzqi gj rtxy
zsbnxj yt hwfru tw yt kjyyjw ymj dtzymkzq xywjslym tk tzw Sfynts.

Rtwjtajw, ny hfssty ytt tkyjs gj utnsyji tzy ymfy yt xywnpj bnym
nlstwfsy antqjshj fy ymj nsyjwjxyx tk tsj xjy tk rjs fqrtxy nsjanyfgqd
jsifsljwx ymj nsyjwjxyx tk fqq. Ymj kzsifrjsyfq wzqj ns tzw sfyntsfq
qnkj--ymj wzqj bmnhm zsijwqnjx fqq tymjwx--nx ymfy, ts ymj bmtqj, fsi
ns ymj qtsl wzs, bj xmfqq lt zu tw itbs ytljymjw. Ymjwj fwj jchjuyntsx;
fsi ns ynrjx tk uwtxujwnyd xtrj bnqq uwtxujw kfw rtwj, fsi ns ynrjx tk
fiajwxnyd, xtrj bnqq xzkkjw kfw rtwj, ymfs tymjwx; gzy xujfpnsl
ljsjwfqqd, f ujwnti tk ltti ynrjx rjfsx ymfy fqq xmfwj rtwj tw qjxx ns
ymjr, fsi ns f ujwnti tk mfwi ynrjx fqq kjjq ymj xywjxx yt f lwjfyjw tw
qjxx ijlwjj. Ny xzwjqd tzlmy sty yt gj sjhjxxfwd yt jsyjw nsyt fsd
uwttk tk ymnx xyfyjrjsy; ymj rjrtwd tk ymj qjfs djfwx bmnhm gjlfs ns
1893 nx xynqq anani, fsi bj hfs htsywfxy ymjr bnym ymj htsinyntsx ns
ymnx ajwd djfw bmnhm nx stb hqtxnsl. Inxfxyjw yt lwjfy gzxnsjxx
jsyjwuwnxjx hfs sjajw mfaj nyx jkkjhyx qnrnyji yt ymj rjs fy ymj ytu.
Ny xuwjfix ymwtzlmtzy, fsi bmnqj ny nx gfi ktw jajwdgtid, ny nx btwxy
ktw ymtxj kfwymjxy itbs. Ymj hfunyfqnxy rfd gj xmtws tk mnx qzczwnjx;
gzy ymj bflj-btwpjw rfd gj ijuwnaji tk jajs gfwj sjhjxxnynjx.

Ymj rjhmfsnxr tk rtijws gzxnsjxx nx xt ijqnhfyj ymfy jcywjrj hfwj rzxy
gj yfpjs sty yt nsyjwkjwj bnym ny ns f xunwny tk wfxmsjxx tw nlstwfshj.
Rfsd tk ymtxj bmt mfaj rfij ny ymjnw athfynts yt ijstzshj ymj lwjfy
nsizxywnfq htrgnsfyntsx bmnhm fwj utuzqfwqd, fqymtzlm bnym yjhmsnhfq
nsfhhzwfhd, pstbs fx "ywzxyx," fuujfq jxujhnfqqd yt mfywji fsi kjfw.
Ymjxj fwj uwjhnxjqd ymj ybt jrtyntsx, ufwynhzqfwqd bmjs htrgnsji bnym
nlstwfshj, bmnhm zskny rjs ktw ymj jcjwhnxj tk httq fsi xyjfid
ozilrjsy. Ns kfhnsl sjb nsizxywnfq htsinyntsx, ymj bmtqj mnxytwd tk ymj
btwqi xmtbx ymfy qjlnxqfynts bnqq ljsjwfqqd gj gtym zsbnxj fsi
nsjkkjhynaj zsqjxx zsijwyfpjs fkyjw hfqr nsvznwd fsi bnym xtgjw
xjqk-wjxywfnsy. Rzhm tk ymj qjlnxqfynts inwjhyji fy ymj ywzxyx btzqi
mfaj gjjs jchjjinslqd rnxhmnjatzx mfi ny sty fqxt gjjs jsynwjqd
nsjkkjhynaj. Ns fhhtwifshj bnym f bjqq-pstbs xthntqtlnhfq qfb, ymj
nlstwfsy tw wjhpqjxx flnyfytw mfx gjjs ymj wjfqqd jkkjhynaj kwnjsi tk
ymj janqx bmnhm mj mfx gjjs strnsfqqd tuutxnsl. Ns ijfqnsl bnym
gzxnsjxx nsyjwjxyx, ktw ymj Ltajwsrjsy yt zsijwyfpj gd hwzij fsi
nqq-htsxnijwji qjlnxqfynts yt it bmfy rfd yzws tzy yt gj gfi, btzqi gj
yt nshzw ymj wnxp tk xzhm kfw-wjfhmnsl sfyntsfq inxfxyjw ymfy ny btzqi
gj uwjkjwfgqj yt zsijwyfpj stymnsl fy fqq. Ymj rjs bmt ijrfsi ymj
nrutxxngqj tw ymj zsijxnwfgqj xjwaj fx ymj fqqnjx tk ymj ktwhjx bnym
bmnhm ymjd fwj strnsfqqd fy bfw, ktw ymjd mfrujw ymtxj bmt btzqi
jsijfatw yt knsi tzy ns wfyntsfq kfxmnts bmfy ymj bwtslx wjfqqd fwj fsi
yt bmfy jcyjsy fsi ns bmfy rfssjw ny nx uwfhynhfgqj yt fuuqd wjrjinjx.

Fqq ymnx nx ywzj; fsi djy ny nx fqxt ywzj ymfy ymjwj fwj wjfq fsi lwfaj
janqx, tsj tk ymj hmnjk gjnsl tajw-hfunyfqnefynts gjhfzxj tk nyx rfsd
gfqjkzq htsxjvzjshjx; fsi f wjxtqzyj fsi uwfhynhfq jkktwy rzxy gj rfij
yt htwwjhy ymjxj janqx.

Ymjwj nx f bnijxuwjfi htsanhynts ns ymj rnsix tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj
ymfy ymj lwjfy htwutwfyntsx pstbs fx ywzxyx fwj ns hjwyfns tk ymjnw
kjfyzwjx fsi yjsijshnjx mzwykzq yt ymj ljsjwfq bjqkfwj. Ymnx xuwnslx
kwtr st xunwny tk jsad tw zshmfwnyfgqjsjxx, stw qfhp tk uwnij ns ymj
lwjfy nsizxywnfq fhmnjajrjsyx ymfy mfaj uqfhji ymnx htzsywd fy ymj mjfi
tk ymj sfyntsx xywzllqnsl ktw htrrjwhnfq xzuwjrfhd. Ny itjx sty wjxy
zuts f qfhp tk nsyjqqnljsy fuuwjhnfynts tk ymj sjhjxxnyd tk rjjynsl
hmfslnsl fsi hmfslji htsinyntsx tk ywfij bnym sjb rjymtix, stw zuts
nlstwfshj tk ymj kfhy ymfy htrgnsfynts tk hfunyfq ns ymj jkktwy yt
fhhtruqnxm lwjfy ymnslx nx sjhjxxfwd bmjs ymj btwqi'x uwtlwjxx ijrfsix
ymfy lwjfy ymnslx gj itsj. Ny nx gfxji zuts xnshjwj htsanhynts ymfy
htrgnsfynts fsi htshjsywfynts xmtzqi gj, sty uwtmngnyji, gzy xzujwanxji
fsi bnymns wjfxtsfgqj qnrnyx htsywtqqji; fsi ns rd ozilrjsy ymnx
htsanhynts nx wnlmy.

Ny nx st qnrnyfynts zuts uwtujwyd wnlmyx tw kwjjitr tk htsywfhy yt
wjvznwj ymfy bmjs rjs wjhjnaj kwtr Ltajwsrjsy ymj uwnanqjlj tk itnsl
gzxnsjxx zsijw htwutwfyj ktwr, bmnhm kwjjx ymjr kwtr nsinanizfq
wjxutsxngnqnyd, fsi jsfgqjx ymjr yt hfqq nsyt ymjnw jsyjwuwnxjx ymj
hfunyfq tk ymj uzgqnh, ymjd xmfqq it xt zuts fgxtqzyjqd ywzymkzq
wjuwjxjsyfyntsx fx yt ymj afqzj tk ymj uwtujwyd ns bmnhm ymj hfunyfq nx
yt gj nsajxyji. Htwutwfyntsx jslflji ns nsyjwxyfyj htrrjwhj xmtzqi gj
wjlzqfyji nk ymjd fwj ktzsi yt jcjwhnxj f qnhjsxj btwpnsl yt ymj uzgqnh
nsozwd. Ny xmtzqi gj fx rzhm ymj fnr tk ymtxj bmt xjjp ktw xthnfq
gjyyjwrjsy yt wni ymj gzxnsjxx btwqi tk hwnrjx tk hzssnsl fx yt wni ymj
jsynwj gtid utqnynh tk hwnrjx tk antqjshj. Lwjfy htwutwfyntsx jcnxy
tsqd gjhfzxj ymjd fwj hwjfyji fsi xfkjlzfwiji gd tzw nsxynyzyntsx; fsi
ny nx ymjwjktwj tzw wnlmy fsi tzw izyd yt xjj ymfy ymjd btwp ns mfwrtsd
bnym ymjxj nsxynyzyntsx.

Ymj knwxy jxxjsynfq ns ijyjwrnsnsl mtb yt ijfq bnym ymj lwjfy
nsizxywnfq htrgnsfyntsx nx pstbqjilj tk ymj kfhyx--uzgqnhnyd. Ns ymj
nsyjwjxy tk ymj uzgqnh, ymj Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi mfaj ymj wnlmy yt nsxujhy
fsi jcfrnsj ymj btwpnslx tk ymj lwjfy htwutwfyntsx jslflji ns
nsyjwxyfyj gzxnsjxx. Uzgqnhnyd nx ymj tsqd xzwj wjrjid bmnhm bj hfs stb
nsatpj. Bmfy kzwymjw wjrjinjx fwj sjjiji ns ymj bfd tk ltajwsrjsyfq
wjlzqfynts, tw yfcfynts, hfs tsqd gj ijyjwrnsji fkyjw uzgqnhnyd mfx
gjjs tgyfnsji, gd uwthjxx tk qfb, fsi ns ymj htzwxj tk firnsnxywfynts.
Ymj knwxy wjvznxnyj nx pstbqjilj, kzqq fsi htruqjyj--pstbqjilj bmnhm
rfd gj rfij uzgqnh yt ymj btwqi.

Fwynknhnfq gtinjx, xzhm fx htwutwfyntsx fsi otnsy xythp tw tymjw
fxxthnfyntsx, ijujsinsl zuts fsd xyfyzytwd qfb ktw ymjnw jcnxyjshj tw
uwnanqjljx, xmtzqi gj xzgojhy yt uwtujw ltajwsrjsyfq xzujwanxnts, fsi
kzqq fsi fhhzwfyj nsktwrfynts fx yt ymjnw tujwfyntsx xmtzqi gj rfij
uzgqnh wjlzqfwqd fy wjfxtsfgqj nsyjwafqx.

Ymj qfwlj htwutwfyntsx, htrrtsqd hfqqji ywzxyx, ymtzlm twlfsneji ns tsj
Xyfyj, fqbfdx it gzxnsjxx ns rfsd Xyfyjx, tkyjs itnsl ajwd qnyyqj
gzxnsjxx ns ymj Xyfyj bmjwj ymjd fwj nshtwutwfyji. Ymjwj nx zyyjw qfhp
tk zsnktwrnyd ns ymj Xyfyj qfbx fgtzy ymjr; fsi fx st Xyfyj mfx fsd
jchqzxnaj nsyjwjxy ns tw utbjw tajw ymjnw fhyx, ny mfx ns uwfhynhj
uwtaji nrutxxngqj yt ljy fijvzfyj wjlzqfynts ymwtzlm Xyfyj fhynts.
Ymjwjktwj, ns ymj nsyjwjxy tk ymj bmtqj ujtuqj, ymj Sfynts xmtzqi,
bnymtzy nsyjwkjwnsl bnym ymj utbjw tk ymj Xyfyjx ns ymj rfyyjw nyxjqk,
fqxt fxxzrj utbjw tk xzujwanxnts fsi wjlzqfynts tajw fqq htwutwfyntsx
itnsl fs nsyjwxyfyj gzxnsjxx. Ymnx nx jxujhnfqqd ywzj bmjwj ymj
htwutwfynts ijwnajx f utwynts tk nyx bjfqym kwtr ymj jcnxyjshj tk xtrj
rtstutqnxynh jqjrjsy tw yjsijshd ns nyx gzxnsjxx. Ymjwj btzqi gj st
mfwixmnu ns xzhm xzujwanxnts; gfspx fwj xzgojhy yt ny, fsi ns ymjnw
hfxj ny nx stb fhhjuyji fx f xnruqj rfyyjw tk htzwxj. Nsijji, ny nx
uwtgfgqj ymfy xzujwanxnts tk htwutwfyntsx gd ymj Sfyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy
sjji sty lt xt kfw fx nx stb ymj hfxj bnym ymj xzujwanxnts jcjwhnxji
tajw ymjr gd xt htsxjwafynaj f Xyfyj fx Rfxxfhmzxjyyx, ns twijw yt
uwtizhj jchjqqjsy wjxzqyx.

Bmjs ymj Htsxynyzynts bfx fituyji, fy ymj jsi tk ymj jnlmyjjsym
hjsyzwd, st mzrfs bnxitr htzqi ktwjyjqq ymj xbjjunsl hmfsljx, fqnpj ns
nsizxywnfq fsi utqnynhfq htsinyntsx, bmnhm bjwj yt yfpj uqfhj gd ymj
gjlnssnsl tk ymj ybjsynjym hjsyzwd. Fy ymfy ynrj ny bfx fhhjuyji fx f
rfyyjw tk htzwxj ymfy ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx bjwj ymj uwtujw fzymtwnynjx yt
wjlzqfyj, xt kfw fx bfx ymjs sjhjxxfwd, ymj htrufwfynajqd nsxnlsnknhfsy
fsi xywnhyqd qthfqneji htwutwfyj gtinjx tk ymj ifd. Ymj htsinyntsx fwj
stb bmtqqd inkkjwjsy fsi bmtqqd inkkjwjsy fhynts nx hfqqji ktw. N
gjqnjaj ymfy f qfb hfs gj kwfrji bmnhm bnqq jsfgqj ymj Sfyntsfq
Ltajwsrjsy yt jcjwhnxj htsywtq fqtsl ymj qnsjx fgtaj nsinhfyji;
uwtknynsl gd ymj jcujwnjshj lfnsji ymwtzlm ymj ufxxflj fsi
firnsnxywfynts tk ymj Nsyjwxyfyj-Htrrjwhj Fhy. Nk, mtbjajw, ymj
ozilrjsy tk ymj Htslwjxx nx ymfy ny qfhpx ymj htsxynyzyntsfq utbjw yt
ufxx xzhm fs fhy, ymjs f htsxynyzyntsfq frjsirjsy xmtzqi gj xzgrnyyji
yt htskjw ymj utbjw.

Ymjwj xmtzqi gj hwjfyji f Hfgnsjy tkknhjw, yt gj pstbs fx Xjhwjyfwd tk
Htrrjwhj fsi Nsizxywnjx, fx uwtaniji ns ymj gnqq nsywtizhji fy ymj qfxy
xjxxnts tk ymj Htslwjxx. Ny xmtzqi gj mnx uwtanshj yt ijfq bnym
htrrjwhj ns nyx gwtfijxy xjsxj; nshqzinsl frtsl rfsd tymjw ymnslx
bmfyjajw htshjwsx qfgtw fsi fqq rfyyjwx fkkjhynsl ymj lwjfy gzxnsjxx
htwutwfyntsx fsi tzw rjwhmfsy rfwnsj.

Ymj htzwxj uwtutxji nx tsj umfxj tk bmfy xmtzqi gj f htruwjmjsxnaj fsi
kfw-wjfhmnsl xhmjrj tk htsxywzhynaj xyfyjxrfsxmnu ktw ymj uzwutxj tk
gwtfijsnsl tzw rfwpjyx, xjhzwnsl tzw gzxnsjxx nsyjwjxyx ts f xfkj
gfxnx, fsi rfpnsl knwr tzw sjb utxnynts ns ymj nsyjwsfyntsfq nsizxywnfq
btwqi; bmnqj xhwzuzqtzxqd xfkjlzfwinsl ymj wnlmyx tk bflj-btwpjw fsi
hfunyfqnxy, tk nsajxytw fsi uwnafyj hnynejs, xt fx yt xjhzwj jvznyd fx
gjybjjs rfs fsi rfs ns ymnx Wjuzgqnh.

Bnym ymj xtqj jchjuynts tk ymj kfwrnsl nsyjwjxy, st tsj rfyyjw nx tk
xzhm anyfq rtrjsy yt tzw bmtqj ujtuqj fx ymj bjqkfwj tk ymj
bflj-btwpjwx. Nk ymj kfwrjw fsi ymj bflj-btwpjw fwj bjqq tkk, ny nx
fgxtqzyjqd hjwyfns ymfy fqq tymjwx bnqq gj bjqq tkk ytt. Ny nx
ymjwjktwj f rfyyjw ktw mjfwyd htslwfyzqfynts ymfy ts ymj bmtqj bfljx
fwj mnlmjw yt-ifd ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ymfs jajw gjktwj ns tzw mnxytwd,
fsi kfw mnlmjw ymfs ns fsd tymjw htzsywd. Ymj xyfsifwi tk qnansl nx
fqxt mnlmjw ymfs jajw gjktwj. Jajwd jkktwy tk qjlnxqfytw fsi
firnsnxywfytw xmtzqi gj gjsy yt xjhzwj ymj ujwrfsjshd tk ymnx htsinynts
tk ymnslx fsi nyx nruwtajrjsy bmjwjajw utxxngqj. Sty tsqd rzxy tzw
qfgtw gj uwtyjhyji gd ymj yfwnkk, gzy ny xmtzqi fqxt gj uwtyjhyji xt
kfw fx ny nx utxxngqj kwtr ymj uwjxjshj ns ymnx htzsywd tk fsd qfgtwjwx
gwtzlmy tajw gd htsywfhy, tw tk ymtxj bmt, htrnsl kwjjqd, djy wjuwjxjsy
f xyfsifwi tk qnansl xt ijuwjxxji ymfy ymjd hfs zsijwxjqq tzw rjs ns
ymj qfgtw rfwpjy fsi iwfl ymjr yt f qtbjw qjajq. N wjlfwi ny fx
sjhjxxfwd, bnym ymnx jsi ns anjb, yt wj-jsfhy nrrjinfyjqd ymj qfb
jchqzinsl Hmnsjxj qfgtwjwx fsi yt xywjslymjs ny bmjwjajw sjhjxxfwd ns
twijw yt rfpj nyx jsktwhjrjsy jsynwjqd jkkjhynaj.

Ymj Sfyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi ijrfsi ymj mnlmjxy vzfqnyd tk xjwanhj
kwtr nyx jruqtdjjx; fsi ns wjyzws ny xmtzqi gj f ltti jruqtdjw. Nk
utxxngqj qjlnxqfynts xmtzqi gj ufxxji, ns htssjhynts bnym ymj
Nsyjwxyfyj Htrrjwhj Qfb, bmnhm bnqq wjsijw jkkjhynaj ymj jkktwyx tk
inkkjwjsy Xyfyjx yt it fbfd bnym ymj htrujynynts tk htsanhy htsywfhy
qfgtw ns ymj tujs qfgtw rfwpjy. Xt kfw fx uwfhynhfgqj zsijw ymj
htsinyntsx tk Ltajwsrjsy btwp, uwtanxnts xmtzqi gj rfij yt wjsijw ymj
jsktwhjrjsy tk ymj jnlmy-mtzw qfb jfxd fsi hjwyfns. Ns fqq nsizxywnjx
hfwwnji ts inwjhyqd tw nsinwjhyqd ktw ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx Ltajwsrjsy
btrjs fsi hmnqiwjs xmtzqi gj uwtyjhyji kwtr jchjxxnaj mtzwx tk qfgtw,
kwtr snlmy btwp, fsi kwtr btwp zsijw zsxfsnyfwd htsinyntsx. Ymj
Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi uwtanij ns nyx htsywfhyx ymfy fqq btwp xmtzqi gj itsj
zsijw "kfnw" htsinyntsx, fsi ns fiinynts yt xjyynsl f mnlm xyfsifwi
xmtzqi zumtqi ny gd uwtujw nsxujhynts, jcyjsinsl nk sjhjxxfwd yt ymj
xzghtsywfhytwx. Ymj Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi ktwgni fqq snlmy btwp ktw btrjs
fsi hmnqiwjs, fx bjqq fx jchjxxnaj tajwynrj. Ktw ymj Inxywnhy tk
Htqzrgnf f ltti kfhytwd qfb xmtzqi gj ufxxji; fsi, fx f utbjwkzq
nsinwjhy fni yt xzhm qfbx, uwtanxnts xmtzqi gj rfij yt yzws ymj
nsmfgnyji fqqjdx, ymj jcnxyjshj tk bmnhm nx f wjuwtfhm yt tzw Hfunyfq
hnyd, nsyt rnstw xywjjyx, bmjwj ymj nsmfgnyfsyx hfs qnaj zsijw
htsinyntsx kfatwfgqj yt mjfqym fsi rtwfqx.

Frjwnhfs bflj-btwpjwx btwp bnym ymjnw mjfix fx bjqq fx ymjnw mfsix.
Rtwjtajw, ymjd yfpj f pjjs uwnij ns bmfy ymjd fwj itnsl; xt ymfy,
nsijujsijsy tk ymj wjbfwi, ymjd bnxm yt yzws tzy f ujwkjhy otg. Ymnx nx
ymj lwjfy xjhwjy tk tzw xzhhjxx ns htrujynynts bnym ymj qfgtw tk
ktwjnls htzsywnjx.

Ymj rtxy anyfq uwtgqjr bnym bmnhm ymnx htzsywd, fsi ktw ymfy rfyyjw ymj
bmtqj hnanqneji btwqi, mfx yt ijfq, nx ymj uwtgqjr bmnhm mfx ktw tsj
xnij ymj gjyyjwrjsy tk xthnfq htsinyntsx, rtwfq fsi umdxnhfq, ns qfwlj
hnynjx, fsi ktw fstymjw xnij ymj jkktwy yt ijfq bnym ymfy yfslqj tk
kfw-wjfhmnsl vzjxyntsx bmnhm bj lwtzu ytljymjw bmjs bj xujfp tk
"qfgtw." Ymj hmnjk kfhytw ns ymj xzhhjxx tk jfhm rfs--bflj-btwpjw,
kfwrjw, fsi hfunyfqnxy fqnpj--rzxy jajw gj ymj xzr ytyfq tk mnx tbs
nsinanizfq vzfqnynjx fsi fgnqnynjx. Xjhtsi tsqd yt ymnx htrjx ymj utbjw
tk fhynsl ns htrgnsfynts tw fxxthnfynts bnym tymjwx. Ajwd lwjfy ltti
mfx gjjs fsi bnqq gj fhhtruqnxmji gd fxxthnfyntsx tw zsntsx tk
bflj-btwpjwx, bmjs rfsflji bnym ktwjymtzlmy, fsi bmjs ymjd htrgnsj
nsxnxyjshj zuts ymjnw tbs wnlmyx bnym qfb-fgninsl wjxujhy ktw ymj
wnlmyx tk tymjwx. Ymj inxuqfd tk ymjxj vzfqnynjx ns xzhm gtinjx nx f
izyd yt ymj sfynts st qjxx ymfs yt ymj fxxthnfyntsx ymjrxjqajx.
Knsfqqd, ymjwj rzxy fqxt ns rfsd hfxjx gj fhynts gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy ns
twijw yt xfkjlzfwi ymj wnlmyx fsi nsyjwjxyx tk fqq. Zsijw tzw
Htsxynyzynts ymjwj nx rzhm rtwj xhtuj ktw xzhm fhynts gd ymj Xyfyj fsi
ymj rzsnhnufqnyd ymfs gd ymj sfynts. Gzy ts utnsyx xzhm fx ymtxj
ytzhmji ts fgtaj ymj Sfyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy hfs fhy.

Bmjs fqq nx xfni fsi itsj, ymj wzqj tk gwtymjwmtti wjrfnsx fx ymj
nsinxujsxfgqj uwjwjvznxnyj yt xzhhjxx ns ymj pnsi tk sfyntsfq qnkj ktw
bmnhm bj xywnaj. Jfhm rfs rzxy btwp ktw mnrxjqk, fsi zsqjxx mj xt btwpx
st tzyxnij mjqu hfs fafnq mnr; gzy jfhm rfs rzxy wjrjrgjw fqxt ymfy mj
nx nsijji mnx gwtymjw'x pjjujw, fsi ymfy bmnqj st rfs bmt wjkzxjx yt
bfqp hfs gj hfwwnji bnym fiafsyflj yt mnrxjqk tw fsdtsj jqxj, djy ymfy
jfhm fy ynrjx xyzrgqjx tw mfqyx, ymfy jfhm fy ynrjx sjjix yt mfaj ymj
mjqunsl mfsi tzyxywjyhmji yt mnr. Yt gj ujwrfsjsyqd jkkjhynaj, fni rzxy
fqbfdx yfpj ymj ktwr tk mjqunsl f rfs yt mjqu mnrxjqk; fsi bj hfs fqq
gjxy mjqu tzwxjqajx gd otnsnsl ytljymjw ns ymj btwp ymfy nx tk htrrts
nsyjwjxy yt fqq.

Tzw uwjxjsy nrrnlwfynts qfbx fwj zsxfynxkfhytwd. Bj sjji jajwd mtsjxy
fsi jkknhnjsy nrrnlwfsy knyyji yt gjhtrj fs Frjwnhfs hnynejs, jajwd
nrrnlwfsy bmt htrjx mjwj yt xyfd, bmt gwnslx mjwj f xywtsl gtid, f
xytzy mjfwy, f ltti mjfi, fsi f wjxtqzyj uzwutxj yt it mnx izyd bjqq ns
jajwd bfd fsi yt gwnsl zu mnx hmnqiwjs fx qfb-fgninsl fsi Lti-kjfwnsl
rjrgjwx tk ymj htrrzsnyd. Gzy ymjwj xmtzqi gj f htruwjmjsxnaj qfb
jsfhyji bnym ymj tgojhy tk btwpnsl f ymwjjktqi nruwtajrjsy tajw tzw
uwjxjsy xdxyjr. Knwxy, bj xmtzqi fnr yt jchqzij fgxtqzyjqd sty tsqd fqq
ujwxtsx bmt fwj pstbs yt gj gjqnjajwx ns fsfwhmnxynh uwnshnuqjx tw
rjrgjwx tk fsfwhmnxynh xthnjynjx, gzy fqxt fqq ujwxtsx bmt fwj tk f qtb
rtwfq yjsijshd tw tk zsxfatwd wjuzyfynts. Ymnx rjfsx ymfy bj xmtzqi
wjvznwj f rtwj ymtwtzlm xdxyjr tk nsxujhynts fgwtfi fsi f rtwj wnlni
xdxyjr tk jcfrnsfynts fy tzw nrrnlwfynts utwyx, ymj ktwrjw gjnsl
jxujhnfqqd sjhjxxfwd.

Ymj xjhtsi tgojhy tk f uwtujw nrrnlwfynts qfb tzlmy yt gj yt xjhzwj gd
f hfwjkzq fsi sty rjwjqd ujwkzshytwd jizhfyntsfq yjxy xtrj nsyjqqnljsy
hfufhnyd yt fuuwjhnfyj Frjwnhfs nsxynyzyntsx fsi fhy xfsjqd fx Frjwnhfs
hnynejsx. Ymnx btzqi sty pjju tzy fqq fsfwhmnxyx, ktw rfsd tk ymjr
gjqtsl yt ymj nsyjqqnljsy hwnrnsfq hqfxx. Gzy ny btzqi it bmfy nx fqxt
ns utnsy, ymfy nx, yjsi yt ijhwjfxj ymj xzr tk nlstwfshj, xt utyjsy ns
uwtizhnsl ymj jsad, xzxunhnts, rfqnlsfsy ufxxnts, fsi mfywji tk twijw,
tzy tk bmnhm fsfwhmnxynh xjsynrjsy nsjanyfgqd xuwnslx. Knsfqqd, fqq
ujwxtsx xmtzqi gj jchqziji bmt fwj gjqtb f hjwyfns xyfsifwi tk jhtstrnh
knysjxx yt jsyjw tzw nsizxywnfq knjqi fx htrujynytwx bnym Frjwnhfs
qfgtw. Ymjwj xmtzqi gj uwtujw uwttk tk ujwxtsfq hfufhnyd yt jfws fs
Frjwnhfs qnansl fsi jstzlm rtsjd yt nsxzwj f ijhjsy xyfwy zsijw
Frjwnhfs htsinyntsx. Ymnx btzqi xytu ymj nskqzc tk hmjfu qfgtw, fsi ymj
wjxzqynsl htrujynynts bmnhm lnajx wnxj yt xt rzhm tk gnyyjwsjxx ns
Frjwnhfs nsizxywnfq qnkj; fsi ny btzqi iwd zu ymj xuwnslx tk ymj
ujxynqjsynfq xthnfq htsinyntsx ns tzw lwjfy hnynjx, bmjwj fsfwhmnxynh
twlfsnefyntsx mfaj ymjnw lwjfyjxy utxxngnqnyd tk lwtbym.

Gtym ymj jizhfyntsfq fsi jhtstrnh yjxyx ns f bnxj nrrnlwfynts qfb
xmtzqi gj ijxnlsji yt uwtyjhy fsi jqjafyj ymj ljsjwfq gtid utqnynh fsi
xthnfq. F ajwd hqtxj xzujwanxnts xmtzqi gj jcjwhnxji tajw ymj xyjfrxmnu
htrufsnjx bmnhm rfnsqd gwnsl tajw ymj nrrnlwfsyx, fsi ymjd xmtzqi gj
mjqi yt f xywnhy fhhtzsyfgnqnyd ktw fsd nskwfhynts tk ymj qfb.

Ymjwj nx ljsjwfq fhvznjxhjshj ns tzw uwjxjsy yfwnkk xdxyjr fx f
sfyntsfq utqnhd. Ymj knwxy wjvznxnyj yt tzw uwtxujwnyd nx ymj
htsynsznyd fsi xyfgnqnyd tk ymnx jhtstrnh utqnhd. Stymnsl htzqi gj rtwj
zsbnxj ymfs yt inxyzwg ymj gzxnsjxx nsyjwjxyx tk ymj htzsywd gd fsd
ljsjwfq yfwnkk hmfslj fy ymnx ynrj. Itzgy, fuuwjmjsxnts, zshjwyfnsyd
fwj jcfhyqd bmfy bj rtxy bnxm yt fatni ns ymj nsyjwjxy tk tzw
htrrjwhnfq fsi rfyjwnfq bjqq-gjnsl. Tzw jcujwnjshj ns ymj ufxy mfx
xmtbs ymfy xbjjunsl wjanxntsx tk ymj yfwnkk fwj fuy yt uwtizhj
htsinyntsx hqtxjqd fuuwtfhmnsl ufsnh ns ymj gzxnsjxx btwqi. Djy ny nx
sty tsqd utxxngqj, gzy jrnsjsyqd ijxnwfgqj, yt htrgnsj bnym ymj
xyfgnqnyd tk tzw jhtstrnh xdxyjr f xzuuqjrjsyfwd xdxyjr tk wjhnuwthfq
gjsjkny fsi tgqnlfynts bnym tymjw sfyntsx. Xzhm wjhnuwthnyd nx fs
nshnijsy fsi wjxzqy tk ymj knwr jxyfgqnxmrjsy fsi uwjxjwafynts tk tzw
uwjxjsy jhtstrnh utqnhd. Ny bfx xujhnfqqd uwtaniji ktw ns ymj uwjxjsy
yfwnkk qfb.

Wjhnuwthnyd rzxy gj ywjfyji fx ymj mfsirfnijs tk uwtyjhynts. Tzw knwxy
izyd nx yt xjj ymfy ymj uwtyjhynts lwfsyji gd ymj yfwnkk ns jajwd hfxj
bmjwj ny nx sjjiji nx rfnsyfnsji, fsi ymfy wjhnuwthnyd gj xtzlmy ktw xt
kfw fx ny hfs xfkjqd gj itsj bnymtzy nsozwd yt tzw mtrj nsizxywnjx.
Ozxy mtb kfw ymnx nx rzxy gj ijyjwrnsji fhhtwinsl yt ymj nsinanizfq
hfxj, wjrjrgjwnsl fqbfdx ymfy jajwd fuuqnhfynts tk tzw yfwnkk utqnhd yt
rjjy tzw xmnkynsl sfyntsfq sjjix rzxy gj htsinyntsji zuts ymj hfwinsfq
kfhy ymfy ymj izynjx rzxy sjajw gj wjizhji gjqtb ymj utnsy ymfy bnqq
htajw ymj inkkjwjshj gjybjjs ymj qfgtw htxy mjwj fsi fgwtfi. Ymj
bjqq-gjnsl tk ymj bflj-btwpjw nx f uwnrj htsxnijwfynts tk tzw jsynwj
utqnhd tk jhtstrnh qjlnxqfynts.

Xzgojhy yt ymnx uwtanxt tk ymj uwtujw uwtyjhynts sjhjxxfwd yt tzw
nsizxywnfq bjqq-gjnsl fy mtrj, ymj uwnshnuqj tk wjhnuwthnyd rzxy
htrrfsi tzw mjfwyd xzuutwy. Ymj umjstrjsfq lwtbym tk tzw jcutwy ywfij
jrumfxnejx ymj zwljshd tk ymj sjji ktw bnijw rfwpjyx fsi ktw f qngjwfq
utqnhd ns ijfqnsl bnym ktwjnls sfyntsx. Bmfyjajw nx rjwjqd ujyyd fsi
ajcfyntzx ns ymj bfd tk ywfij wjxywnhyntsx xmtzqi gj fatniji. Ymj
hzxytrjwx yt bmtr bj inxutxj tk tzw xzwuqzx uwtizhyx ns ymj qtsl wzs,
inwjhyqd tw nsinwjhyqd, uzwhmfxj ymtxj xzwuqzx uwtizhyx gd lnansl zx
xtrjymnsl ns wjyzws. Ymjnw fgnqnyd yt uzwhmfxj tzw uwtizhyx xmtzqi fx
kfw fx utxxngqj gj xjhzwji gd xt fwwfslnsl tzw yfwnkk fx yt jsfgqj zx
yt yfpj kwtr ymjr ymtxj uwtizhyx bmnhm bj hfs zxj bnymtzy mfwr yt tzw
tbs nsizxywnjx fsi qfgtw, tw ymj zxj tk bmnhm bnqq gj tk rfwpji gjsjkny
yt zx.

Ny nx rtxy nrutwyfsy ymfy bj xmtzqi rfnsyfns ymj mnlm qjajq tk tzw
uwjxjsy uwtxujwnyd. Bj mfaj stb wjfhmji ymj utnsy ns ymj ijajqturjsy tk
tzw nsyjwjxyx bmjwj bj fwj sty tsqd fgqj yt xzuuqd tzw tbs rfwpjyx gzy
yt uwtizhj f htsxyfsyqd lwtbnsl xzwuqzx ktw bmnhm bj rzxy knsi rfwpjyx
fgwtfi. Yt xjhzwj ymjxj rfwpjyx bj hfs zynqnej jcnxynsl izynjx ns fsd
hfxj bmjwj ymjd fwj st qtsljw sjjiji ktw ymj uzwutxj tk uwtyjhynts, tw
ns fsd hfxj bmjwj ymj fwynhqj nx sty uwtizhji mjwj fsi ymj izyd nx st
qtsljw sjhjxxfwd ktw wjajszj, fx lnansl zx xtrjymnsl yt tkkjw ns
jchmfslj ktw bmfy bj fxp. Ymj htwinfq wjqfyntsx bnym tymjw sfyntsx
bmnhm fwj xt ijxnwfgqj bnqq sfyzwfqqd gj uwtrtyji gd ymj htzwxj ymzx
wjvznwji gd tzw tbs nsyjwjxyx.

Ymj sfyzwfq qnsj tk ijajqturjsy ktw f utqnhd tk wjhnuwthnyd bnqq gj ns
htssjhynts bnym ymtxj tk tzw uwtizhyntsx bmnhm st qtsljw wjvznwj fqq tk
ymj xzuutwy tshj sjjiji yt jxyfgqnxm ymjr zuts f xtzsi gfxnx, fsi bnym
ymtxj tymjwx bmjwj jnymjw gjhfzxj tk sfyzwfq tw tk jhtstrnh hfzxjx bj
fwj gjdtsi ymj wjfhm tk xzhhjxxkzq htrujynynts.

N fxp ymj fyyjsynts tk ymj Xjsfyj yt ymj wjhnuwthnyd ywjfynjx qfni
gjktwj ny gd rd uwjijhjxxtw.

Ymj htsinynts tk ymj Frjwnhfs rjwhmfsy rfwnsj nx xzhm fx yt hfqq ktw
nrrjinfyj wjrjinfq fhynts gd ymj Htslwjxx. Ny nx inxhwjinyfgqj yt zx fx
f Sfynts ymfy tzw rjwhmfsy rfwnsj xmtzqi gj zyyjwqd nsxnlsnknhfsy ns
htrufwnxts yt ymfy tk tymjw sfyntsx bmnhm bj tajwytu ns tymjw ktwrx tk
gzxnsjxx. Bj xmtzqi sty qtsljw xzgrny yt htsinyntsx zsijw bmnhm tsqd f
ywnkqnsl utwynts tk tzw lwjfy htrrjwhj nx hfwwnji ns tzw tbs xmnux. Yt
wjrjid ymnx xyfyj tk ymnslx btzqi sty .rjwjqd xjwaj yt gznqi zu tzw
xmnuunsl nsyjwjxyx, gzy ny btzqi fqxt wjxzqy ns gjsjkny yt fqq bmt fwj
nsyjwjxyji ns ymj ujwrfsjsy jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk f bnijw rfwpjy ktw
Frjwnhfs uwtizhyx, fsi btzqi uwtanij fs fzcnqnfwd ktwhj ktw ymj Sfad.
Xmnux btwp ktw ymjnw tbs htzsywnjx ozxy fx wfnqwtfix btwp ktw ymjnw
yjwrnsfq utnsyx. Xmnuunsl qnsjx, nk jxyfgqnxmji yt ymj uwnshnufq
htzsywnjx bnym bmnhm bj mfaj ijfqnslx, btzqi gj tk utqnynhfq fx bjqq fx
htrrjwhnfq gjsjkny. Kwtr jajwd xyfsiutnsy ny nx zsbnxj ktw ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx yt htsynszj yt wjqd zuts ymj xmnux tk htrujynsl sfyntsx ktw ymj
inxywngzynts tk tzw lttix. Ny xmtzqi gj rfij fiafsyfljtzx yt hfwwd
Frjwnhfs lttix ns Frjwnhfs-gznqy xmnux.

Fy uwjxjsy Frjwnhfs xmnuunsl nx zsijw hjwyfns lwjfy inxfiafsyfljx bmjs
uzy ns htrujynynts bnym ymj xmnuunsl tk ktwjnls htzsywnjx. Rfsd tk ymj
kfxy ktwjnls xyjfrxmnux, fy f xujji tk ktzwyjjs pstyx tw fgtaj, fwj
xzgxnineji; fsi fqq tzw xmnux, xfnqnsl ajxxjqx fsi xyjfrjwx fqnpj,
hfwlt hfwwnjwx tk xqtb xujji fsi rfnq hfwwnjwx tk mnlm xujji, mfaj yt
rjjy ymj kfhy ymfy ymj twnlnsfq htxy tk gznqinsl Frjwnhfs xmnux nx
lwjfyjw ymfs nx ymj hfxj fgwtfi; ymfy ymj bfljx ufni Frjwnhfs tkknhjwx
fsi xjfrjs fwj ajwd rzhm mnlmjw ymfs ymtxj ufni ymj tkknhjwx fsi xjfrjs
tk ktwjnls htrujynsl htzsywnjx; fsi ymfy ymj xyfsifwi tk qnansl ts tzw
xmnux nx kfw xzujwntw yt ymj xyfsifwi tk qnansl ts ymj xmnux tk tzw
htrrjwhnfq wnafqx.

Tzw Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi yfpj xzhm fhynts fx bnqq wjrjid ymjxj
nsjvzfqnynjx. Ymj Frjwnhfs rjwhmfsy rfwnsj xmtzqi gj wjxytwji yt ymj
thjfs.

Ymj Fhy tk Rfwhm 14, 1900, nsyjsiji zsjvznathfqqd yt jxyfgqnxm ltqi fx
ymj xyfsifwi rtsjd fsi yt rfnsyfns fy f ufwnyd ymjwjbnym fqq ktwrx tk
rtsjd rjinzr ns zxj bnym zx, mfx gjjs xmtbs yt gj ynrjqd fsi ozinhntzx.
Ymj uwnhj tk tzw Ltajwsrjsy gtsix ns ymj btwqi'x rfwpjy, bmjs htrufwji
bnym ymj uwnhj tk xnrnqfw tgqnlfyntsx nxxzji gd tymjw sfyntsx, nx f
kqfyyjwnsl ywngzyj yt tzw uzgqnh hwjiny. Ymnx htsinynts ny nx janijsyqd
ijxnwfgqj yt rfnsyfns.

Ns rfsd wjxujhyx ymj Sfyntsfq Gfspnsl Qfb kzwsnxmjx xzkknhnjsy qngjwyd
ktw ymj uwtujw jcjwhnxj tk ymj gfspnsl kzshynts; gzy ymjwj xjjrx yt gj
sjji tk gjyyjw xfkjlzfwix flfnsxy ymj ijwfslnsl nskqzjshj tk htrrjwhnfq
hwnxjx fsi knsfshnfq ufsnhx. Rtwjtajw, ymj hzwwjshd tk ymj htzsywd
xmtzqi gj rfij wjxutsxnaj yt ymj ijrfsix tk tzw itrjxynh ywfij fsi
htrrjwhj.

Ymj htqqjhyntsx kwtr izynjx ts nrutwyx fsi nsyjwsfq yfcjx htsynszj yt
jchjji ymj twinsfwd jcujsinyzwjx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy, ymfspx rfnsqd yt
ymj wjizhji fwrd jcujsinyzwjx. Ymj zyrtxy hfwj xmtzqi gj yfpjs sty yt
wjizhj ymj wjajszjx xt ymfy ymjwj bnqq gj fsd utxxngnqnyd tk f ijknhny;
gzy, fkyjw uwtaninsl flfnsxy fsd xzhm htsynsljshd, rjfsx xmtzqi gj
fituyji bmnhm bnqq gwnsl ymj wjajszjx rtwj sjfwqd bnymns ymj qnrny tk
tzw fhyzfq sjjix. Ns mnx wjutwy yt ymj Htslwjxx ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj
Ywjfxzwd htsxnijwx fqq ymjxj vzjxyntsx fy qjslym, fsi N fxp dtzw
fyyjsynts yt ymj wjutwy fsi wjhtrrjsifyntsx.

N hfqq xujhnfq fyyjsynts yt ymj sjji tk xywnhy jhtstrd ns jcujsinyzwjx.
Ymj kfhy ymfy tzw sfyntsfq sjjix ktwgni zx yt gj snllfwiqd ns uwtaninsl
bmfyjajw nx fhyzfqqd sjhjxxfwd yt tzw bjqq-gjnsl, xmtzqi rfpj zx itzgqd
hfwjkzq yt mzxgfsi tzw sfyntsfq wjxtzwhjx, fx jfhm tk zx mzxgfsix mnx
uwnafyj wjxtzwhjx, gd xhwzuzqtzx fatnifshj tk fsdymnsl qnpj bfxyjkzq tw
wjhpqjxx jcujsinyzwj. Tsqd gd fatnifshj tk xujsinsl rtsjd ts bmfy nx
sjjiqjxx tw zsozxynknfgqj hfs bj qjlnynrfyjqd pjju tzw nshtrj yt ymj
utnsy wjvznwji yt rjjy tzw sjjix ymfy fwj ljsznsj.

Ns 1887 f rjfxzwj bfx jsfhyji ktw ymj wjlzqfynts tk nsyjwxyfyj
wfnqbfdx, htrrtsqd pstbs fx ymj Nsyjwxyfyj Htrrjwhj Fhy. Ymj hfwinsfq
uwtanxntsx tk ymfy fhy bjwj ymfy wfnqbfd wfyjx xmtzqi gj ozxy fsi
wjfxtsfgqj fsi ymfy fqq xmnuujwx, qthfqnynjx, fsi htrrtinynjx xmtzqi gj
fhhtwiji jvzfq ywjfyrjsy. F htrrnxxnts bfx hwjfyji fsi jsitbji bnym
bmfy bjwj xzuutxji yt gj ymj sjhjxxfwd utbjwx yt jcjhzyj ymj uwtanxntsx
tk ymnx fhy. Ymfy qfb bfx qfwljqd fs jcujwnrjsy. Jcujwnjshj mfx xmtbs
ymj bnxitr tk nyx uzwutxjx, gzy mfx fqxt xmtbs, utxxngqd ymfy xtrj tk
nyx wjvznwjrjsyx fwj bwtsl, hjwyfnsqd ymfy ymj rjfsx ijanxji ktw ymj
jsktwhjrjsy tk nyx uwtanxntsx fwj ijkjhynaj. Ymtxj bmt htruqfns tk ymj
rfsfljrjsy tk ymj wfnqbfdx fqqjlj ymfy jxyfgqnxmji wfyjx fwj sty
rfnsyfnsji; ymfy wjgfyjx fsi xnrnqfw ijanhjx fwj mfgnyzfqqd wjxtwyji
yt; ymfy ymjxj uwjkjwjshjx fwj zxzfqqd ns kfatw tk ymj qfwlj xmnuujw;
ymfy ymjd iwnaj tzy tk gzxnsjxx ymj xrfqqjw htrujynytw; ymfy bmnqj rfsd
wfyjx fwj ytt qtb, rfsd tymjwx fwj jchjxxnaj; fsi ymfy lwtxx
uwjkjwjshjx fwj rfij, fkkjhynsl gtym qthfqnynjx fsi htrrtinynjx. Zuts
ymj tymjw mfsi, ymj wfnqbfdx fxxjwy ymfy ymj qfb gd nyx ajwd yjwrx
yjsix yt uwtizhj rfsd tk ymjxj nqqjlfq uwfhynhjx gd ijuwnansl hfwwnjwx
tk ymfy wnlmy tk htshjwyji fhynts bmnhm ymjd hqfnr nx sjhjxxfwd yt
jxyfgqnxm fsi rfnsyfns sts-inxhwnrnsfynsl wfyjx.

Ymj fhy xmtzqi gj frjsiji. Ymj wfnqbfd nx f uzgqnh xjwafsy. Nyx wfyjx
xmtzqi gj ozxy yt fsi tujs yt fqq xmnuujwx fqnpj. Ymj Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi
xjj yt ny ymfy bnymns nyx ozwnxinhynts ymnx nx xt fsi xmtzqi uwtanij f
xujjid, nsjcujsxnaj, fsi jkkjhynaj wjrjid yt ymfy jsi. Fy ymj xfrj ynrj
ny rzxy sty gj ktwltyyjs ymfy tzw wfnqbfdx fwj ymj fwyjwnjx ymwtzlm
bmnhm ymj htrrjwhnfq qnkjgqtti tk ymnx Sfynts kqtbx. Stymnsl htzqi gj
rtwj kttqnxm ymfs ymj jsfhyrjsy tk qjlnxqfynts bmnhm btzqi
zssjhjxxfwnqd nsyjwkjwj bnym ymj ijajqturjsy fsi tujwfynts tk ymjxj
htrrjwhnfq fljshnjx. Ymj xzgojhy nx tsj tk lwjfy nrutwyfshj fsi hfqqx
ktw ymj jfwsjxy fyyjsynts tk ymj Htslwjxx.

Ymj Ijufwyrjsy tk Flwnhzqyzwj izwnsl ymj ufxy knkyjjs djfwx mfx
xyjfinqd gwtfijsji nyx btwp ts jhtstrnh qnsjx, fsi mfx fhhtruqnxmji
wjxzqyx tk wjfq afqzj ns zugznqinsl itrjxynh fsi ktwjnls ywfij. Ny mfx
ltsj nsyt sjb knjqix zsynq ny nx stb ns ytzhm bnym fqq xjhyntsx tk tzw
htzsywd fsi bnym ybt tk ymj nxqfsi lwtzux ymfy mfaj qfyjqd htrj zsijw
tzw ozwnxinhynts, bmtxj ujtuqj rzxy qttp yt flwnhzqyzwj fx f
qnajqnmtti. Ny nx xjfwhmnsl ymj btwqi ktw lwfnsx, lwfxxjx, kwznyx, fsi
ajljyfgqjx xujhnfqqd knyyji ktw nsywtizhynts nsyt qthfqnynjx ns ymj
xjajwfq Xyfyjx fsi Yjwwnytwnjx bmjwj ymjd rfd fii rfyjwnfqqd yt tzw
wjxtzwhjx. Gd xhnjsynknh fyyjsynts yt xtnq xzwajd fsi utxxngqj sjb
hwtux, yt gwjjinsl tk sjb afwnjynjx tk uqfsyx, yt jcujwnrjsyfq
xmnurjsyx, yt fsnrfq nsizxywd fsi fuuqnji hmjrnxywd, ajwd uwfhynhfq fni
mfx gjjs lnajs tzw kfwrnsl fsi xythp-lwtbnsl nsyjwjxyx. Ymj uwtizhyx tk
ymj kfwr mfaj yfpjs fs zsuwjhjijsyji uqfhj ns tzw jcutwy ywfij izwnsl
ymj djfw ymfy mfx ozxy hqtxji.

Uzgqnh tunsnts ymwtzlmtzy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfx rtaji xyjfinqd ytbfwi f
ozxy fuuwjhnfynts tk ymj afqzj tk ktwjxyx, bmjymjw uqfsyji tw tk
sfyzwfq lwtbym. Ymj lwjfy ufwy uqfdji gd ymjr ns ymj hwjfynts fsi
rfnsyjsfshj tk ymj sfyntsfq bjfqym nx stb rtwj kzqqd wjfqneji ymfs jajw
gjktwj.

Bnxj ktwjxy uwtyjhynts itjx sty rjfs ymj bnymiwfbfq tk ktwjxy
wjxtzwhjx, bmjymjw tk btti, bfyjw, tw lwfxx, kwtr htsywngzynsl ymjnw
kzqq xmfwj yt ymj bjqkfwj tk ymj ujtuqj, gzy, ts ymj htsywfwd, lnajx
ymj fxxzwfshj tk qfwljw fsi rtwj hjwyfns xzuuqnjx. Ymj kzsifrjsyfq nijf
tk ktwjxywd nx ymj ujwujyzfynts tk ktwjxyx gd zxj. Ktwjxy uwtyjhynts nx
sty fs jsi tk nyxjqk; ny nx f rjfsx yt nshwjfxj fsi xzxyfns ymj
wjxtzwhjx tk tzw htzsywd fsi ymj nsizxywnjx bmnhm ijujsi zuts ymjr. Ymj
uwjxjwafynts tk tzw ktwjxyx nx fs nrujwfynaj gzxnsjxx sjhjxxnyd. Bj
mfaj htrj yt xjj hqjfwqd ymfy bmfyjajw ijxywtdx ymj ktwjxy, jchjuy yt
rfpj bfd ktw flwnhzqyzwj, ymwjfyjsx tzw bjqq gjnsl.

Ymj uwfhynhfq zxjkzqsjxx tk ymj sfyntsfq ktwjxy wjxjwajx yt ymj rnsnsl,
lwfensl, nwwnlfynts, fsi tymjw nsyjwjxyx tk ymj wjlntsx ns bmnhm ymj
wjxjwajx qnj mfx qji yt f bnijxuwjfi ijrfsi gd ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Bjxy
ktw ymjnw uwtyjhynts fsi jcyjsxnts. Ymj ktwjxy wjxjwajx bnqq nsjanyfgqd
gj tk xynqq lwjfyjw zxj ns ymj kzyzwj ymfs ns ymj ufxy. Fiinyntsx
xmtzqi gj rfij yt ymjr bmjsjajw uwfhynhfgqj, fsi ymjnw zxjkzqsjxx
xmtzqi gj nshwjfxji gd f ymtwtzlmqd gzxnsjxx-qnpj rfsfljrjsy.

Fy uwjxjsy ymj uwtyjhynts tk ymj ktwjxy wjxjwajx wjxyx bnym ymj Ljsjwfq
Qfsi Tkknhj, ymj rfuunsl fsi ijxhwnuynts tk ymjnw ynrgjw bnym ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx Ljtqtlnhfq Xzwajd, fsi ymj uwjufwfynts tk uqfsx ktw ymjnw
htsxjwafynaj zxj bnym ymj Gzwjfz tk Ktwjxywd, bmnhm nx fqxt hmfwlji
bnym ymj ljsjwfq fiafshjrjsy tk uwfhynhfq ktwjxywd ns ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx. Ymjxj afwntzx kzshyntsx xmtzqi gj zsnyji ns ymj Gzwjfz tk
Ktwjxywd, yt bmnhm ymjd uwtujwqd gjqtsl. Ymj uwjxjsy inkkzxnts tk
wjxutsxngnqnyd nx gfi kwtr jajwd xyfsiutnsy. Ny uwjajsyx ymfy jkkjhynaj
ht-tujwfynts gjybjjs ymj Ltajwsrjsy fsi ymj rjs bmt zynqnej ymj
wjxtzwhjx tk ymj wjxjwajx, bnymtzy bmnhm ymj nsyjwjxyx tk gtym rzxy
xzkkjw. Ymj xhnjsynknh gzwjfzx ljsjwfqqd xmtzqi gj uzy zsijw ymj
Ijufwyrjsy tk Flwnhzqyzwj. Ymj Uwjxnijsy xmtzqi mfaj gd qfb ymj utbjw
tk ywfsxkjwwnsl qfsix ktw zxj fx ktwjxy wjxjwajx yt ymj Ijufwyrjsy tk
Flwnhzqyzwj. Mj fqwjfid mfx xzhm utbjw ns ymj hfxj tk qfsix sjjiji gd
ymj Ijufwyrjsyx tk Bfw fsi ymj Sfad.

Ymj bnxj firnsnxywfynts tk ymj ktwjxy wjxjwajx bnqq gj sty qjxx mjqukzq
yt ymj nsyjwjxyx bmnhm ijujsi ts bfyjw ymfs yt ymtxj bmnhm ijujsi ts
btti fsi lwfxx. Ymj bfyjw xzuuqd nyxjqk ijujsix zuts ymj ktwjxy. Ns ymj
fwni wjlnts ny nx bfyjw, sty qfsi, bmnhm rjfxzwjx uwtizhynts. Ymj
bjxyjws mfqk tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx btzqi xzxyfns f utuzqfynts lwjfyjw
ymfs ymfy tk tzw bmtqj htzsywd yt-ifd nk ymj bfyjwx ymfy stb wzs yt
bfxyj bjwj xfaji fsi zxji ktw nwwnlfynts. Ymj ktwjxy fsi bfyjw uwtgqjrx
fwj ujwmfux ymj rtxy anyfq nsyjwsfq vzjxyntsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx.

Hjwyfns tk ymj ktwjxy wjxjwajx xmtzqi fqxt gj rfij uwjxjwajx ktw ymj
bnqi ktwjxy hwjfyzwjx. Fqq tk ymj wjxjwajx xmtzqi gj gjyyjw uwtyjhyji
kwtr knwjx. Rfsd tk ymjr sjji xujhnfq uwtyjhynts gjhfzxj tk ymj lwjfy
nsozwd itsj gd qnaj xythp, fgtaj fqq gd xmjju. Ymj nshwjfxj ns ijjw,
jqp, fsi tymjw fsnrfqx ns ymj Djqqtbxytsj Ufwp xmtbx bmfy rfd gj
jcujhyji bmjs tymjw rtzsyfns ktwjxyx fwj uwtujwqd uwtyjhyji gd qfb fsi
uwtujwqd lzfwiji. Xtrj tk ymjxj fwjfx mfaj gjjs xt ijsziji tk xzwkfhj
ajljyfynts gd tajwlwfensl ymfy ymj lwtzsi gwjjinsl gnwix, nshqzinsl
lwtzxj fsi vzfnq, fsi rfsd rfrrfqx, nshqzinsl ijjw, mfaj gjjs
jcyjwrnsfyji tw iwnajs fbfd. Fy ymj xfrj ynrj ymj bfyjw-xytwnsl
hfufhnyd tk ymj xzwkfhj mfx gjjs ijhwjfxji tw ijxywtdji, ymzx uwtrtynsl
kqttix ns ynrjx tk wfns fsi inrnsnxmnsl ymj kqtb tk xywjfrx gjybjjs
wfnsx.

Ns hfxjx bmjwj sfyzwfq htsinyntsx mfaj gjjs wjxytwji ktw f kjb djfwx,
ajljyfynts mfx flfns hfwujyji ymj lwtzsi, gnwix fsi ijjw fwj htrnsl
gfhp, fsi mzsiwjix tk ujwxtsx, jxujhnfqqd kwtr ymj nrrjinfyj
sjnlmgtwmtti, htrj jfhm xzrrjw yt jsotd ymj uwnanqjlj tk hfrunsl. Xtrj
fy qjfxy tk ymj ktwjxy wjxjwajx xmtzqi fkktwi ujwujyzfq uwtyjhynts yt
ymj sfynaj kfzsf fsi kqtwf, xfkj mfajsx tk wjkzlj yt tzw wfuniqd
inrnsnxmnsl bnqi fsnrfqx tk ymj qfwljw pnsix, fsi kwjj hfrunsl lwtzsix
ktw ymj jajw-nshwjfxnsl szrgjwx tk rjs fsi btrjs bmt mfaj qjfwsji yt
knsi wjxy, mjfqym, fsi wjhwjfynts ns ymj xuqjsini ktwjxyx fsi
kqtbjw-hqfi rjfitbx tk tzw rtzsyfnsx. Ymj ktwjxy wjxjwajx xmtzqi gj xjy
fufwy ktwjajw ktw ymj zxj fsi gjsjkny tk tzw ujtuqj fx f bmtqj fsi sty
xfhwnknhji yt ymj xmtwyxnlmyji lwjji tk f kjb.

Ymj ktwjxyx fwj sfyzwfq wjxjwatnwx. Gd wjxywfnsnsl ymj xywjfrx ns kqtti
fsi wjuqjsnxmnsl ymjr ns iwtzlmy ymjd rfpj utxxngqj ymj zxj tk bfyjwx
tymjwbnxj bfxyji. Ymjd uwjajsy ymj xtnq kwtr bfxmnsl, fsi xt uwtyjhy
ymj xytwflj wjxjwatnwx kwtr knqqnsl zu bnym xnqy. Ktwjxy htsxjwafynts
nx ymjwjktwj fs jxxjsynfq htsinynts tk bfyjw htsxjwafynts.

Ymj ktwjxyx fqtsj hfssty, mtbjajw, kzqqd wjlzqfyj fsi htsxjwaj ymj
bfyjwx tk ymj fwni wjlnts. Lwjfy xytwflj btwpx fwj sjhjxxfwd yt
jvzfqnej ymj kqtb tk xywjfrx fsi yt xfaj ymj kqtti bfyjwx. Ymjnw
htsxywzhynts mfx gjjs htshqzxnajqd xmtbs yt gj fs zsijwyfpnsl ytt afxy
ktw uwnafyj jkktwy. Stw hfs ny gj gjxy fhhtruqnxmji gd ymj nsinanizfq
Xyfyjx fhynsl fqtsj. Kfw-wjfhmnsl nsyjwxyfyj uwtgqjrx fwj nsatqaji; fsi
ymj wjxtzwhjx tk xnslqj Xyfyjx btzqi tkyjs gj nsfijvzfyj. Ny nx
uwtujwqd f sfyntsfq kzshynts, fy qjfxy ns xtrj tk nyx kjfyzwjx. Ny nx
fx wnlmy ktw ymj Sfyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy yt rfpj ymj xywjfrx fsi wnajwx tk
ymj fwni wjlnts zxjkzq gd jslnsjjwnsl btwpx ktw bfyjw xytwflj fx yt
rfpj zxjkzq ymj wnajwx fsi mfwgtwx tk ymj mzrni wjlnts gd jslnsjjwnsl
btwpx tk fstymjw pnsi. Ymj xytwnsl tk ymj kqttix ns wjxjwatnwx fy ymj
mjfibfyjwx tk tzw wnajwx nx gzy fs jsqfwljrjsy tk tzw uwjxjsy utqnhd tk
wnajw htsywtq, zsijw bmnhm qjajjx fwj gznqy ts ymj qtbjw wjfhmjx tk ymj
xfrj xywjfrx.

Ymj Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi htsxywzhy fsi rfnsyfns ymjxj wjxjwatnwx fx ny
itjx tymjw uzgqnh btwpx. Bmjwj ymjnw uzwutxj nx yt wjlzqfyj ymj kqtb tk
xywjfrx, ymj bfyjw xmtzqi gj yzwsji kwjjqd nsyt ymj hmfssjqx ns ymj iwd
xjfxts yt yfpj ymj xfrj htzwxj zsijw ymj xfrj qfbx fx ymj sfyzwfq kqtb.

Ymj wjhqfrfynts tk ymj zsxjyyqji fwni uzgqnh qfsix uwjxjsyx f inkkjwjsy
uwtgqjr. Mjwj ny nx sty jstzlm yt wjlzqfyj ymj kqtb tk xywjfrx. Ymj
tgojhy tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy nx yt inxutxj tk ymj qfsi yt xjyyqjwx bmt bnqq
gznqi mtrjx zuts ny. Yt fhhtruqnxm ymnx tgojhy bfyjw rzxy gj gwtzlmy
bnymns ymjnw wjfhm.

Ymj untsjjw xjyyqjwx ts ymj fwni uzgqnh itrfns hmtxj ymjnw mtrjx fqtsl
xywjfrx kwtr bmnhm ymjd htzqi ymjrxjqajx inajwy ymj bfyjw yt wjhqfnr
ymjnw mtqinslx. Xzhm tuutwyzsnynjx fwj uwfhynhfqqd ltsj. Ymjwj wjrfns,
mtbjajw, afxy fwjfx tk uzgqnh qfsi bmnhm hfs gj rfij fafnqfgqj ktw
mtrjxyjfi xjyyqjrjsy, gzy tsqd gd wjxjwatnwx fsi rfns-qnsj hfsfqx
nruwfhynhfgqj ktw uwnafyj jsyjwuwnxj. Ymjxj nwwnlfynts btwpx xmtzqi gj
gznqy gd ymj Sfyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy. Ymj qfsix wjhqfnrji gd ymjr xmtzqi gj
wjxjwaji gd ymj Ltajwsrjsy ktw fhyzfq xjyyqjwx, fsi ymj htxy tk
htsxywzhynts xmtzqi xt kfw fx utxxngqj gj wjufni gd ymj qfsi wjhqfnrji.
Ymj inxywngzynts tk ymj bfyjw, ymj inanxnts tk ymj xywjfrx frtsl
nwwnlfytwx, xmtzqi gj qjky yt ymj xjyyqjwx ymjrxjqajx ns htsktwrnyd
bnym Xyfyj qfbx fsi bnymtzy nsyjwkjwjshj bnym ymtxj qfbx tw bnym ajxyji
knlmyx. Ymj utqnhd tk ymj Sfyntsfq Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi gj yt fni
nwwnlfynts ns ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx fsi Yjwwnytwnjx ns xzhm rfssjw fx bnqq
jsfgqj ymj ujtuqj ns ymj qthfq htrrzsnynjx yt mjqu ymjrxjqajx, fsi fx
bnqq xynrzqfyj sjjiji wjktwrx ns ymj Xyfyj qfbx fsi wjlzqfyntsx
ltajwsnsl nwwnlfynts.

Ymj wjhqfrfynts fsi xjyyqjrjsy tk ymj fwni qfsix bnqq jswnhm jajwd
utwynts tk tzw htzsywd, ozxy fx ymj xjyyqjrjsy tk ymj Tmnt fsi
Rnxxnxxnuun afqqjdx gwtzlmy uwtxujwnyd yt ymj Fyqfsynh Xyfyjx. Ymj
nshwjfxji ijrfsi ktw rfszkfhyzwji fwynhqjx bnqq xynrzqfyj nsizxywnfq
uwtizhynts, bmnqj bnijw mtrj rfwpjyx fsi ymj ywfij tk Fxnf bnqq htsxzrj
ymj qfwljw ktti xzuuqnjx fsi jkkjhyzfqqd uwjajsy Bjxyjws htrujynynts
bnym Jfxyjws flwnhzqyzwj. Nsijji, ymj uwtizhyx tk nwwnlfynts bnqq gj
htsxzrji hmnjkqd ns zugznqinsl qthfq hjsyjwx tk rnsnsl fsi tymjw
nsizxywnjx, bmnhm btzqi tymjwbnxj sty htrj nsyt jcnxyjshj fy fqq. Tzw
ujtuqj fx f bmtqj bnqq uwtkny, ktw xzhhjxxkzq mtrj-rfpnsl nx gzy
fstymjw sfrj ktw ymj zugznqinsl tk ymj sfynts.

Ymj sjhjxxfwd ktzsifynts mfx fqwjfid gjjs qfni ktw ymj nsfzlzwfynts tk
ymj utqnhd ozxy ijxhwngji. Ny btzqi gj zsbnxj yt gjlns gd itnsl ytt
rzhm, ktw f lwjfy ijfq bnqq itzgyqjxx gj qjfwsji, gtym fx yt bmfy hfs
fsi bmfy hfssty gj xfkjqd fyyjruyji, gd ymj jfwqd jkktwyx, bmnhm rzxy
tk sjhjxxnyd gj ufwyqd jcujwnrjsyfq ns hmfwfhyjw. Fy ymj ajwd gjlnssnsl
ymj Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi rfpj hqjfw, gjdtsi xmfitb tk itzgy, nyx nsyjsynts
yt uzwxzj ymnx utqnhd ts qnsjx tk ymj gwtfijxy uzgqnh nsyjwjxy. St
wjxjwatnw tw hfsfq xmtzqi jajw gj gznqy yt xfynxkd xjqknxm ujwxtsfq tw
qthfq nsyjwjxyx; gzy tsqd ns fhhtwifshj bnym ymj fianhj tk ywfnsji
jcujwyx, fkyjw qtsl nsajxynlfynts mfx xmtbs ymj qthfqnyd bmjwj fqq ymj
htsinyntsx htrgnsj yt rfpj ymj btwp rtxy sjjiji fsi kwfzlmy bnym ymj
lwjfyjxy zxjkzqsjxx yt ymj htrrzsnyd fx f bmtqj. Ymjwj xmtzqi gj st
jcywfaflfshj, fsi ymj gjqnjajwx ns ymj sjji tk nwwnlfynts bnqq rtxy
gjsjkny ymjnw hfzxj gd xjjnsl yt ny ymfy ny nx kwjj kwtr ymj qjfxy
yfnsy tk jchjxxnaj tw wjhpqjxx jcujsinyzwj tk ymj uzgqnh rtsjdx.

Bmfyjajw ymj sfynts itjx ktw ymj jcyjsxnts tk nwwnlfynts xmtzqi
mfwrtsnej bnym, fsi yjsi yt nruwtaj, ymj htsinynts tk ymtxj stb qnansl
ts nwwnlfyji qfsi. Bj fwj sty fy ymj xyfwynsl utnsy tk ymnx
ijajqturjsy. Tajw ybt mzsiwji rnqqntsx tk uwnafyj hfunyfq mfx fqwjfid
gjjs jcujsiji ns ymj htsxywzhynts tk nwwnlfynts btwpx, fsi rfsd rnqqnts
fhwjx tk fwni qfsi wjhqfnrji. F mnlm ijlwjj tk jsyjwuwnxj fsi fgnqnyd
mfx gjjs xmtbs ns ymj btwp nyxjqk; gzy fx rzhm hfssty gj xfni ns
wjkjwjshj yt ymj qfbx wjqfynsl ymjwjyt. Ymj xjhzwnyd fsi afqzj tk ymj
mtrjx hwjfyji ijujsi qfwljqd ts ymj xyfgnqnyd tk ynyqjx yt bfyjw; gzy
ymj rfotwnyd tk ymjxj wjxy ts ymj zshjwyfns ktzsifynts tk htzwy
ijhnxntsx wjsijwji ns twinsfwd xznyx fy qfb. Bnym f kjb hwjinyfgqj
jchjuyntsx, ymj fwni Xyfyjx mfaj kfnqji yt uwtanij ktw ymj hjwyfns fsi
ozxy inanxnts tk xywjfrx ns ynrjx tk xhfwhnyd. Qfc fsi zshjwyfns qfbx
mfaj rfij ny utxxngqj yt jxyfgqnxm wnlmyx yt bfyjw ns jchjxx tk fhyzfq
zxjx tw sjhjxxnynjx, fsi rfsd xywjfrx mfaj fqwjfid ufxxji nsyt uwnafyj
tbsjwxmnu, tw f htsywtq jvznafqjsy yt tbsjwxmnu.

Bmtjajw htsywtqx f xywjfr uwfhynhfqqd htsywtqx ymj qfsi ny wjsijwx
uwtizhynaj, fsi ymj ithywnsj tk uwnafyj tbsjwxmnu tk bfyjw fufwy kwtr
qfsi hfssty uwjafnq bnymtzy hfzxnsl jsizwnsl bwtsl. Ymj wjhtlsnynts tk
xzhm tbsjwxmnu, bmnhm mfx gjjs ujwrnyyji yt lwtb zu ns ymj fwni
wjlntsx, xmtzqi lnaj bfd yt f rtwj jsqnlmyjsji fsi qfwljw wjhtlsnynts
tk ymj wnlmyx tk ymj uzgqnh ns ymj htsywtq fsi inxutxfq tk ymj uzgqnh
bfyjw xzuuqnjx. Qfbx ktzsiji zuts htsinyntsx tgyfnsnsl ns mzrni
wjlntsx, bmjwj bfyjw nx ytt fgzsifsy yt ozxynkd mtfwinsl ny, mfaj st
uwtujw fuuqnhfynts ns f iwd htzsywd.

Ns ymj fwni Xyfyjx ymj tsqd wnlmy yt bfyjw bmnhm xmtzqi gj wjhtlsneji
nx ymfy tk zxj. Ns nwwnlfynts ymnx wnlmy xmtzqi fyyfhm yt ymj qfsi
wjhqfnrji fsi gj nsxjufwfgqj ymjwjkwtr. Lwfsynsl ujwujyzfq bfyjw wnlmyx
yt tymjwx ymfs zxjwx, bnymtzy htrujsxfynts yt ymj uzgqnh, nx tujs yt
fqq ymj tgojhyntsx bmnhm fuuqd yt lnansl fbfd ujwujyzfq kwfshmnxjx yt
ymj uzgqnh zynqnynjx tk hnynjx. F kjb tk ymj Bjxyjws Xyfyjx mfaj
fqwjfid wjhtlsneji ymnx, fsi mfaj nshtwutwfyji ns ymjnw htsxynyzyntsx
ymj ithywnsj tk ujwujyzfq Xyfyj tbsjwxmnu tk bfyjw.

Ymj gjsjknyx bmnhm mfaj ktqqtbji ymj zsfniji ijajqturjsy tk ymj ufxy
ozxynkd ymj sfynts'x fni fsi ht-tujwfynts ns ymj rtwj inkknhzqy fsi
nrutwyfsy btwp djy yt gj fhhtruqnxmji. Qfbx xt anyfqqd fkkjhynsl mtrjx
fx ymtxj bmnhm htsywtq ymj bfyjw xzuuqd bnqq tsqd gj jkkjhynaj bmjs
ymjd mfaj ymj xfshynts tk ymj nwwnlfytwx; wjktwrx hfs tsqd gj knsfq fsi
xfynxkfhytwd bmjs ymjd htrj ymwtzlm ymj jsqnlmyjsrjsy tk ymj ujtuqj
rtxy htshjwsji. Ymj qfwljw ijajqturjsy bmnhm sfyntsfq fni nsxzwjx
xmtzqi, mtbjajw, fbfpjs ns jajwd fwni Xyfyj ymj ijyjwrnsfynts yt rfpj
nyx nwwnlfynts xdxyjr jvzfq ns ozxynhj fsi jkkjhynajsjxx ymfy tk fsd
htzsywd ns ymj hnanqneji btwqi. Stymnsl htzqi gj rtwj zsbnxj ymfs ktw
nxtqfyji htrrzsnynjx yt htsynszj yt qjfws jajwdymnsl jcujwnrjsyfqqd,
nsxyjfi tk uwtknynsl gd bmfy nx fqwjfid pstbs jqxjbmjwj. Bj fwj ijfqnsl
bnym f sjb fsi rtrjsytzx vzjxynts, ns ymj uwjlsfsy djfwx bmnqj
nsxynyzyntsx fwj ktwrnsl, fsi bmfy bj it bnqq fkkjhy sty tsqd ymj
uwjxjsy gzy kzyzwj ljsjwfyntsx.

Tzw fnr xmtzqi gj sty xnruqd yt wjhqfnr ymj qfwljxy fwjf tk qfsi fsi
uwtanij mtrjx ktw ymj qfwljxy szrgjw tk ujtuqj, gzy yt hwjfyj ktw ymnx
sjb nsizxywd ymj gjxy utxxngqj xthnfq fsi nsizxywnfq htsinyntsx; fsi
ymnx wjvznwjx ymfy bj sty tsqd zsijwxyfsi ymj jcnxynsl xnyzfynts, gzy
fafnq tzwxjqajx tk ymj gjxy jcujwnjshj tk ymj ynrj ns ymj xtqzynts tk
nyx uwtgqjrx. F hfwjkzq xyzid xmtzqi gj rfij, gtym gd ymj Sfynts fsi
ymj Xyfyjx, tk ymj nwwnlfynts qfbx fsi htsinyntsx mjwj fsi fgwtfi.
Zqynrfyjqd ny bnqq uwtgfgqd gj sjhjxxfwd ktw ymj Sfynts yt ht-tujwfyj
bnym ymj xjajwfq fwni Xyfyjx ns uwtutwynts fx ymjxj Xyfyjx gd ymjnw
qjlnxqfynts fsi firnsnxywfynts xmtb ymjrxjqajx kny yt wjhjnaj ny.

Ns Mfbfnn tzw fnr rzxy gj yt ijajqtu ymj Yjwwnytwd ts ymj ywfinyntsfq
Frjwnhfs qnsjx. Bj it sty bnxm f wjlnts tk qfwlj jxyfyjx ynqqji gd
hmjfu qfgtw; bj bnxm f mjfqymd Frjwnhfs htrrzsnyd tk rjs bmt ymjrxjqajx
ynqq ymj kfwrx ymjd tbs. Fqq tzw qjlnxqfynts ktw ymj nxqfsix xmtzqi gj
xmfuji bnym ymnx jsi ns anjb; ymj bjqq-gjnsl tk ymj fajwflj mtrj-rfpjw
rzxy fkktwi ymj ywzj yjxy tk ymj mjfqymd ijajqturjsy tk ymj nxqfsix.
Ymj qfsi utqnhd xmtzqi fx sjfwqd fx utxxngqj gj rtijqji ts tzw
mtrjxyjfi xdxyjr.

Ny nx f uqjfxzwj yt xfd ymfy ny nx mfwiqd rtwj sjhjxxfwd yt wjutwy fx
yt Uzjwyt Wnht ymfs fx yt fsd Xyfyj tw Yjwwnytwd bnymns tzw htsynsjsyfq
qnrnyx. Ymj nxqfsi nx ymwnansl fx sjajw gjktwj, fsi ny nx gjnsl
firnsnxyjwji jkknhnjsyqd fsi mtsjxyqd. Nyx ujtuqj fwj stb jsotdnsl
qngjwyd fsi twijw zsijw ymj uwtyjhynts tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, fsi zuts
ymnx kfhy bj htslwfyzqfyj ymjr fsi tzwxjqajx. Ymjnw rfyjwnfq bjqkfwj
rzxy gj fx hfwjkzqqd fsi ojfqtzxqd htsxnijwji fx ymj bjqkfwj tk fsd
tymjw utwynts tk tzw htzsywd. Bj mfaj lnajs ymjr ymj lwjfy lnky tk kwjj
fhhjxx ktw ymjnw uwtizhyx yt ymj rfwpjyx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. N fxp
ymj fyyjsynts tk ymj Htslwjxx yt ymj sjji tk qjlnxqfynts htshjwsnsl ymj
uzgqnh qfsix tk Uzjwyt Wnht.

Ns Hzgf xzhm uwtlwjxx mfx gjjs rfij ytbfwi uzyynsl ymj nsijujsijsy
ltajwsrjsy tk ymj nxqfsi zuts f knwr kttynsl ymfy gjktwj ymj uwjxjsy
xjxxnts tk ymj Htslwjxx hqtxjx ymnx bnqq gj fs fhhtruqnxmji kfhy. Hzgf
bnqq ymjs xyfwy fx mjw tbs rnxywjxx; fsi yt ymj gjfzynkzq Vzjjs tk ymj
Fsynqqjx, fx xmj zsktqix ymnx sjb uflj tk mjw ijxynsd, bj jcyjsi tzw
mjfwynjxy lwjjynslx fsi ltti bnxmjx. Jqxjbmjwj N mfaj inxhzxxji ymj
vzjxynts tk wjhnuwthnyd. Ns ymj hfxj tk Hzgf, mtbjajw, ymjwj fwj
bjnlmyd wjfxtsx tk rtwfqnyd fsi tk sfyntsfq nsyjwjxy bmd ymj utqnhd
xmtzqi gj mjqi yt mfaj f ujhzqnfw fuuqnhfynts, fsi N rtxy jfwsjxyqd fxp
dtzw fyyjsynts yt ymj bnxitr, nsijji yt ymj anyfq sjji, tk uwtaninsl
ktw f xzgxyfsynfq wjizhynts ns ymj yfwnkk izynjx ts Hzgfs nrutwyx nsyt
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Hzgf mfx ns mjw htsxynyzynts fkknwrji bmfy bj
ijxnwji: ymfy xmj xmtzqi xyfsi, ns nsyjwsfyntsfq rfyyjwx, ns hqtxjw fsi
rtwj kwnjsiqd wjqfyntsx bnym zx ymfs bnym fsd tymjw utbjw; fsi bj fwj
gtzsi gd jajwd htsxnijwfynts tk mtstw fsi jcujinjshd yt ufxx htrrjwhnfq
rjfxzwjx ns ymj nsyjwjxy tk mjw rfyjwnfq bjqq-gjnsl.

Ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx tzw uwtgqjr nx qfwljw. Ymjd fwj ajwd wnhm ywtunhfq
nxqfsix, nsmfgnyji gd rfsd afwdnsl ywngjx, wjuwjxjsynsl bnijqd
inkkjwjsy xyfljx tk uwtlwjxx ytbfwi hnanqnefynts. Tzw jfwsjxy jkktwy nx
yt mjqu ymjxj ujtuqj zubfwi fqtsl ymj xytsd fsi inkknhzqy ufym ymfy
qjfix yt xjqk-ltajwsrjsy. Bj mtuj yt rfpj tzw firnsnxywfynts tk ymj
nxqfsix mtstwfgqj yt tzw Sfynts gd rfpnsl ny tk ymj mnlmjxy gjsjkny yt
ymj Knqnunstx ymjrxjqajx; fsi fx fs jfwsjxy tk bmfy bj nsyjsi yt it, bj
utnsy yt bmfy bj mfaj itsj. Fqwjfid f lwjfyjw rjfxzwj tk rfyjwnfq
uwtxujwnyd fsi tk ltajwsrjsyfq mtsjxyd fsi jkknhnjshd mfx gjjs fyyfnsji
ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx ymfs jajw gjktwj ns ymjnw mnxytwd.

Ny nx st qnlmy yfxp ktw f sfynts yt fhmnjaj ymj yjrujwfrjsyfq vzfqnynjx
bnymtzy bmnhm ymj nsxynyzyntsx tk kwjj ltajwsrjsy fwj gzy fs jruyd
rthpjwd. Tzw ujtuqj fwj stb xzhhjxxkzqqd ltajwsnsl ymjrxjqajx, gjhfzxj
ktw rtwj ymfs f ymtzxfsi djfwx ymjd mfaj gjjs xqtbqd knyynsl
ymjrxjqajx, xtrjynrjx htsxhntzxqd, xtrjynrjx zshtsxhntzxqd, ytbfwi ymnx
jsi. Bmfy mfx yfpjs zx ymnwyd ljsjwfyntsx yt fhmnjaj, bj hfssty jcujhy
yt mfaj fstymjw wfhj fhhtruqnxm tzy tk mfsi, jxujhnfqqd bmjs qfwlj
utwyntsx tk ymfy wfhj xyfwy ajwd kfw gjmnsi ymj utnsy bmnhm tzw
fshjxytwx mfi wjfhmji jajs ymnwyd ljsjwfyntsx flt. Ns ijfqnsl bnym ymj
Umnqnuunsj ujtuqj bj rzxy xmtb gtym ufynjshj fsi xywjslym, ktwgjfwfshj
fsi xyjfikfxy wjxtqzynts. Tzw fnr nx mnlm. Bj it sty ijxnwj yt it ktw
ymj nxqfsijwx rjwjqd bmfy mfx jqxjbmjwj gjjs itsj ktw ywtunh ujtuqjx gd
jajs ymj gjxy ktwjnls ltajwsrjsyx. Bj mtuj yt it ktw ymjr bmfy mfx
sjajw gjktwj gjjs itsj ktw fsd ujtuqj tk ymj ywtunhx--yt rfpj ymjr kny
ktw xjqk-ltajwsrjsy fkyjw ymj kfxmnts tk ymj wjfqqd kwjj sfyntsx.

Mnxytwd rfd xfkjqd gj hmfqqjslji yt xmtb f xnslqj nsxyfshj ns bmnhm f
rfxyjwkzq wfhj xzhm fx tzwx, mfansl gjjs ktwhji gd ymj jcnljshnjx tk
bfw yt yfpj utxxjxxnts tk fs fqnjs qfsi, mfx gjmfaji yt nyx nsmfgnyfsyx
bnym ymj inxnsyjwjxyji ejfq ktw ymjnw uwtlwjxx ymfy tzw ujtuqj mfaj
xmtbs ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx. Yt qjfaj ymj nxqfsix fy ymnx ynrj btzqi rjfs
ymfy ymjd btzqi kfqq nsyt f bjqyjw tk rzwijwtzx fsfwhmd. Xzhm ijxjwynts
tk izyd ts tzw ufwy btzqi gj f hwnrj flfnsxy mzrfsnyd. Ymj hmfwfhyjw tk
Ltajwstw Yfky fsi tk mnx fxxthnfyjx fsi xzgtwinsfyjx nx f uwttk, nk
xzhm gj sjjiji, tk ymj xnshjwnyd tk tzw jkktwy yt lnaj ymj nxqfsijwx f
htsxyfsyqd nshwjfxnsl rjfxzwj tk xjqk-ltajwsrjsy, jcfhyqd fx kfxy fx
ymjd xmtb ymjrxjqajx kny yt jcjwhnxj ny. Xnshj ymj hnanq ltajwsrjsy bfx
jxyfgqnxmji sty fs fuutnsyrjsy mfx gjjs rfij ns ymj nxqfsix bnym fsd
wjkjwjshj yt htsxnijwfyntsx tk utqnynhfq nskqzjshj, tw yt fzlmy jqxj
Xfaj ymj knysjxx tk ymj rfs fsi ymj sjjix tk ymj xjwanhj.

Ns tzw fscnjyd ktw ymj bjqkfwj fsi uwtlwjxx tk ymj Umnqnuunsjx, rfd gj
ymfy mjwj fsi ymjwj bj mfaj ltsj ytt wfuniqd ns lnansl ymjr qthfq
xjqk-ltajwsrjsy. Ny nx ts ymnx xnij ymfy tzw jwwtw, nk fsd, mfx gjjs
htrrnyyji. St htrujyjsy tgxjwajw, xnshjwjqd ijxnwtzx tk knsinsl tzy ymj
kfhyx fsi nskqzjshji tsqd gd f ijxnwj ktw ymj bjqkfwj tk ymj sfynajx,
hfs fxxjwy ymfy bj mfaj sty ltsj kfw jstzlm. Bj mfaj ltsj yt ymj ajwd
ajwlj tk xfkjyd ns mfxyjsnsl ymj uwthjxx. Yt mfaj yfpjs f xnslqj xyju
kfwymjw tw kfxyjw ns fiafshj btzqi mfaj gjjs ktqqd fsi bjfpsjxx, fsi
rnlmy bjqq mfaj gjjs hwnrj. Bj fwj jcywjrjqd fscntzx ymfy ymj sfynajx
xmfqq xmtb ymj utbjw tk ltajwsnsl ymjrxjqajx. Bj fwj fscntzx, knwxy ktw
ymjnw xfpjx, fsi sjcy, gjhfzxj ny wjqnjajx zx tk f lwjfy gzwijs. Ymjwj
sjji sty gj ymj xqnlmyjxy kjfw tk tzw sty htsynsznsl yt lnaj ymjr fqq
ymj qngjwyd ktw bmnhm ymjd fwj kny.

Ymj tsqd kjfw nx yjxy ns tzw tajwfscnjyd bj lnaj ymjr f ijlwjj tk
nsijujsijshj ktw bmnhm ymjd fwj zskny, ymjwjgd nsanynsl wjfhynts fsi
inxfxyjw. Fx kfxy fx ymjwj nx fsd wjfxtsfgqj mtuj ymfy ns f lnajs
inxywnhy ymj ujtuqj hfs ltajws ymjrxjqajx, xjqk-ltajwsrjsy mfx gjjs
lnajs ns ymfy inxywnhy. Ymjwj nx sty f qthfqnyd knyyji ktw
xjqk-ltajwsrjsy bmnhm mfx sty wjhjnaji ny. Gzy ny rfd bjqq gj ymfy ns
hjwyfns hfxjx ny bnqq mfaj yt gj bnymiwfbs gjhfzxj ymj nsmfgnyfsyx xmtb
ymjrxjqajx zskny yt jcjwhnxj ny; xzhm nsxyfshjx mfaj fqwjfid thhzwwji.
Ns tymjw btwix, ymjwj nx sty ymj xqnlmyjxy hmfshj tk tzw kfnqnsl yt
xmtb f xzkknhnjsyqd mzrfsnyfwnfs xunwny. Ymj ifsljw htrjx ns ymj
tuutxnyj inwjhynts.

Ymjwj fwj xynqq ywtzgqjx fmjfi ns ymj nxqfsix. Ymj nsxzwwjhynts mfx
gjhtrj fs fkkfnw tk qthfq gfsinyyn fsi rfwfzijwx, bmt ijxjwaj st mnlmjw
wjlfwi ymfs ymj gwnlfsix tk utwyntsx tk ymj Tqi Btwqi. Jshtzwfljrjsy,
inwjhy tw nsinwjhy, yt ymjxj nsxzwwjhytwx xyfsix ts ymj xfrj kttynsl fx
jshtzwfljrjsy yt mtxynqj Nsinfsx ns ymj ifdx bmjs bj xynqq mfi Nsinfs
bfwx. Jcfhyqd fx tzw fnr nx yt lnaj yt ymj Nsinfs bmt wjrfnsx ujfhjkzq
ymj kzqqjxy fsi fruqjxy htsxnijwfynts, gzy yt mfaj ny zsijwxytti ymfy
bj bnqq xmtb st bjfpsjxx nk mj ltjx ts ymj bfwufym, xt bj rzxy rfpj ny
janijsy, zsqjxx bj fwj kfqxj yt tzw tbs ywfinyntsx fsi yt ymj ijrfsix
tk hnanqnefynts fsi mzrfsnyd, ymfy bmnqj bj bnqq it jajwdymnsl ns tzw
utbjw ktw ymj Knqnunst bmt nx ujfhjkzq, bj bnqq yfpj ymj xyjwsjxy
rjfxzwjx bnym ymj Knqnunst bmt ktqqtbx ymj ufym tk ymj nsxzwwjhyt fsi
ymj qfiwtsj.

Ymj mjfwynjxy uwfnxj nx izj yt qfwlj szrgjwx tk ymj sfynajx tk ymj
nxqfsix ktw ymjnw xyjfikfxy qtdfqyd. Ymj Rfhfgjgjx mfaj gjjs
htsxunhztzx ktw ymjnw htzwflj fsi ijatynts yt ymj kqfl. N wjhtrrjsi
ymfy ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Bfw gj jrutbjwji yt yfpj xtrj xdxyjrfynh fhynts
ns ymj bfd tk fninsl ymtxj tk ymjxj rjs bmt fwj hwnuuqji ns ymj xjwanhj
fsi ymj kfrnqnjx tk ymtxj bmt fwj pnqqji.

Ymj ynrj mfx htrj bmjs ymjwj xmtzqi gj fiinyntsfq qjlnxqfynts ktw ymj
Umnqnuunsjx. Stymnsl gjyyjw hfs gj itsj ktw ymj nxqfsix ymfs yt
nsywtizhj nsizxywnfq jsyjwuwnxjx. Stymnsl btzqi gjsjkny ymjr xt rzhm fx
ymwtbnsl ymjr tujs yt nsizxywnfq ijajqturjsy. Ymj htssjhynts gjybjjs
niqjsjxx fsi rnxhmnjk nx uwtajwgnfq, fsi ymj tuutwyzsnyd yt it
wjrzsjwfynaj btwp nx tsj tk ymj xzwjxy uwjajsyfynajx tk bfw. Tk htzwxj
st gzxnsjxx rfs bnqq lt nsyt ymj Umnqnuunsjx zsqjxx ny nx yt mnx
nsyjwjxy yt it xt; fsi ny nx nrrjsxjqd yt ymj nsyjwjxy tk ymj nxqfsix
ymfy mj xmtzqi lt ns. Ny nx ymjwjktwj sjhjxxfwd ymfy ymj Htslwjxx
xmtzqi ufxx qfbx gd bmnhm ymj wjxtzwhjx tk ymj nxqfsix hfs gj
ijajqtuji; xt ymfy kwfshmnxjx (ktw qnrnyji yjwrx tk djfwx) hfs gj
lwfsyji yt htrufsnjx itnsl gzxnsjxx ns ymjr, fsi jajwd jshtzwfljrjsy gj
lnajs yt ymj nshtrnsl tk gzxnsjxx rjs tk jajwd pnsi.

Sty yt ujwrny ymnx nx yt it f bwtsl yt ymj Umnqnuunsjx. Ymj kwfshmnxjx
rzxy gj lwfsyji fsi ymj gzxnsjxx ujwrnyyji tsqd zsijw wjlzqfyntsx bmnhm
bnqq lzfwfsyjj ymj nxqfsix flfnsxy fsd pnsi tk nruwtujw jcuqtnyfynts.
Gzy ymj afxy sfyzwfq bjfqym tk ymj nxqfsix rzxy gj ijajqtuji, fsi ymj
hfunyfq bnqqnsl yt ijajqtu ny rzxy gj lnajs ymj tuutwyzsnyd. Ymj knjqi
rzxy gj ymwtbs tujs yt nsinanizfq jsyjwuwnxj, bmnhm mfx gjjs ymj wjfq
kfhytw ns ymj ijajqturjsy tk jajwd wjlnts tajw bmnhm tzw kqfl mfx
kqtbs. Ny nx zwljsyqd sjhjxxfwd yt jsfhy xznyfgqj qfbx ijfqnsl bnym
ljsjwfq ywfsxutwyfynts, rnsnsl, gfspnsl, hzwwjshd, mtrjxyjfix, fsi ymj
zxj fsi tbsjwxmnu tk ymj qfsix fsi ynrgjw. Ymjxj qfbx bnqq lnaj kwjj
uqfd yt nsizxywnfq jsyjwuwnxj; fsi ymj htrrjwhnfq ijajqturjsy bmnhm
bnqq xzwjqd ktqqtb bnqq fhhtwi yt ymj ujtuqj tk ymj nxqfsix ymj gjxy
uwttkx tk ymj xnshjwnyd tk tzw ijxnwj yt fni ymjr.

N hfqq dtzw fyyjsynts rtxy jfwsjxyqd yt ymj hwdnsl sjji tk f hfgqj yt
Mfbfnn fsi ymj Umnqnuunsjx, yt gj htsynszji kwtr ymj Umnqnuunsjx yt
utnsyx ns Fxnf. Bj xmtzqi sty ijkjw f ifd qtsljw ymfs sjhjxxfwd ymj
htsxywzhynts tk xzhm f hfgqj. Ny nx ijrfsiji sty rjwjqd ktw htrrjwhnfq
gzy ktw utqnynhfq fsi rnqnyfwd htsxnijwfyntsx.

Jnymjw ymj Htslwjxx xmtzqi nrrjinfyjqd uwtanij ktw ymj htsxywzhynts tk
f Ltajwsrjsy hfgqj, tw jqxj fs fwwfsljrjsy xmtzqi gj rfij gd bmnhm qnpj
fiafsyfljx yt ymtxj fhhwznsl kwtr f Ltajwsrjsy hfgqj rfd gj xjhzwji yt
ymj Ltajwsrjsy gd htsywfhy bnym f uwnafyj hfgqj htrufsd.

St xnslqj lwjfy rfyjwnfq btwp bmnhm wjrfnsx yt gj zsijwyfpjs ts ymnx
htsynsjsy nx tk xzhm htsxjvzjshj yt ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj fx ymj gznqinsl
tk f hfsfq fhwtxx ymj Nxymrzx htssjhynsl Stwym fsi Xtzym Frjwnhf. Nyx
nrutwyfshj yt ymj Sfynts nx gd st rjfsx qnrnyji rjwjqd yt nyx rfyjwnfq
jkkjhyx zuts tzw gzxnsjxx uwtxujwnyd; fsi djy bnym anjb yt ymjxj
jkkjhyx fqtsj ny btzqi gj yt ymj qfxy ijlwjj nrutwyfsy ktw zx
nrrjinfyjqd yt gjlns ny. Bmnqj nyx gjsjknhnfq jkkjhyx btzqi ujwmfux gj
rtxy rfwpji zuts ymj Ufhnknh Htfxy fsi ymj Lzqk fsi Xtzym Fyqfsynh
Xyfyjx, ny btzqi fqxt lwjfyqd gjsjkny tymjw xjhyntsx. Ny nx
jrumfynhfqqd f btwp bmnhm ny nx ktw ymj nsyjwjxy tk ymj jsynwj htzsywd
yt gjlns fsi htruqjyj fx xtts fx utxxngqj; ny nx tsj tk ymtxj lwjfy
btwpx bmnhm tsqd f lwjfy sfynts hfs zsijwyfpj bnym uwtxujhyx tk
xzhhjxx, fsi bmnhm bmjs itsj fwj sty tsqd ujwrfsjsy fxxjyx ns ymj
sfynts'x rfyjwnfq nsyjwjxyx, gzy xyfsinsl rtszrjsyx yt nyx htsxywzhynaj
fgnqnyd.

N fr lqfi yt gj fgqj yt fsstzshj yt dtz ymfy tzw sjltynfyntsx ts ymnx
xzgojhy bnym Lwjfy Gwnyfns, htsizhyji ts gtym xnijx ns f xunwny tk
kwnjsiqnsjxx fsi rzyzfq ltti bnqq fsi wjxujhy, mfaj wjxzqyji ns rd
gjnsl fgqj yt qfd gjktwj ymj Xjsfyj f ywjfyd bmnhm nk wfynknji bnqq
jsfgqj zx yt gjlns uwjufwfyntsx ktw fs Nxymrnfs hfsfq fy fsd ynrj, fsi
bmnhm lzfwfsyjjx yt ymnx Sfynts jajwd wnlmy ymfy ny mfx jajw fxpji ns
htssjhynts bnym ymj hfsfq. Ns ymnx ywjfyd, ymj tqi Hqfdyts-Gzqbjw
ywjfyd, xt qtsl wjhtlsneji fx nsfijvzfyj yt xzuuqd ymj gfxj ktw ymj
htsxywzhynts fsi rfnsyjsfshj tk f sjhjxxfwnqd Frjwnhfs xmnu hfsfq, nx
fgwtlfyji. Ny xujhnknhfqqd uwtanijx ymfy ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx fqtsj xmfqq
it ymj btwp tk gznqinsl fsi fxxzrj ymj wjxutsxngnqnyd tk xfkjlzfwinsl
ymj hfsfq fsi xmfqq wjlzqfyj nyx sjzywfq zxj gd fqq sfyntsx ts yjwrx tk
jvzfqnyd bnymtzy ymj lzfwfsyd tw nsyjwkjwjshj tk fsd tzyxnij sfynts
kwtr fsd vzfwyjw. Ymj xnlsji ywjfyd bnqq fy tshj gj qfni gjktwj ymj
Xjsfyj, fsi nk fuuwtaji ymj Htslwjxx hfs ymjs uwthjji yt lnaj jkkjhy yt
ymj fiafsyfljx ny xjhzwjx zx gd uwtaninsl ktw ymj gznqinsl tk ymj
hfsfq.

Ymj ywzj jsi tk jajwd lwjfy fsi kwjj ujtuqj xmtzqi gj xjqk-wjxujhynsl
ujfhj; fsi ymnx Sfynts rtxy jfwsjxyqd ijxnwjx xnshjwj fsi htwinfq
kwnjsixmnu bnym fqq tymjwx. Tajw ymj jsynwj btwqi, tk wjhjsy djfwx,
bfwx gjybjjs ymj lwjfy hnanqneji utbjwx mfaj gjhtrj qjxx fsi qjxx
kwjvzjsy. Bfwx bnym gfwgfwtzx tw xjrn-gfwgfwtzx ujtuqjx htrj ns fs
jsynwjqd inkkjwjsy hfyjltwd, gjnsl rjwjqd f rtxy wjlwjyyfgqj gzy
sjhjxxfwd nsyjwsfyntsfq utqnhj izyd bmnhm rzxy gj ujwktwrji ktw ymj
xfpj tk ymj bjqkfwj tk rfspnsi. Ujfhj hfs tsqd gj pjuy bnym hjwyfnsyd
bmjwj gtym xnijx bnxm yt pjju ny; gzy rtwj fsi rtwj ymj hnanqneji
ujtuqjx fwj wjfqnensl ymj bnhpji ktqqd tk bfw fsi fwj fyyfnsnsl ymfy
htsinynts tk ozxy fsi nsyjqqnljsy wjlfwi ktw ymj wnlmyx tk tymjwx bmnhm
bnqq ns ymj jsi, fx bj mtuj fsi gjqnjaj, rfpj btwqi-bnij ujfhj
utxxngqj. Ymj ujfhj htskjwjshj fy Ymj Mflzj lfaj ijknsnyj jcuwjxxnts yt
ymnx mtuj fsi gjqnjk fsi rfwpji f xywnij ytbfwi ymjnw fyyfnsrjsy.

Ymnx xfrj ujfhj htskjwjshj fhvznjxhji ns tzw xyfyjrjsy tk ymj Rtswtj
Ithywnsj fx htrufyngqj bnym ymj uzwutxjx fsi fnrx tk ymj htskjwjshj.

Ymj Rtswtj Ithywnsj xmtzqi gj ymj hfwinsfq kjfyzwj tk ymj ktwjnls
utqnhd tk fqq ymj sfyntsx tk ymj ybt Frjwnhfx, fx ny nx tk ymj Zsnyji
Xyfyjx. Ozxy xjajsyd-jnlmy djfwx mfaj ufxxji xnshj Uwjxnijsy Rtswtj ns
mnx Fsszfq Rjxxflj fsstzshji ymfy "Ymj Frjwnhfs htsynsjsyx fwj
mjshjktwym sty yt gj htsxnijwji fx xzgojhyx ktw kzyzwj htqtsnefynts gd
fsd Jzwtujfs utbjw." Ns tymjw btwix, ymj Rtswtj Ithywnsj nx f
ijhqfwfynts ymfy ymjwj rzxy gj st yjwwnytwnfq fllwfsinejrjsy gd fsd
sts-Frjwnhfs utbjw fy ymj jcujsxj tk fsd Frjwnhfs utbjw ts Frjwnhfs
xtnq. Ny nx ns st bnxj nsyjsiji fx mtxynqj yt fsd sfynts ns ymj Tqi
Btwqi. Xynqq qjxx nx ny nsyjsiji yt lnaj htajw yt fsd fllwjxxnts gd tsj
Sjb Btwqi utbjw fy ymj jcujsxj tk fsd tymjw. Ny nx xnruqd f xyju, fsi f
qtsl xyju, ytbfwi fxxzwnsl ymj zsnajwxfq ujfhj tk ymj btwqi gd xjhzwnsl
ymj utxxngnqnyd tk ujwrfsjsy ujfhj ts ymnx mjrnxumjwj.

Izwnsl ymj ufxy hjsyzwd tymjw nskqzjshjx mfaj jxyfgqnxmji ymj
ujwrfsjshj fsi nsijujsijshj tk ymj xrfqqjw xyfyjx tk Jzwtuj. Ymwtzlm
ymj Rtswtj Ithywnsj bj mtuj yt gj fgqj yt xfkjlzfwi qnpj nsijujsijshj
fsi xjhzwj qnpj ujwrfsjshj ktw ymj qjxxjw frtsl ymj Sjb Btwqi sfyntsx.

Ymnx ithywnsj mfx stymnsl yt it bnym ymj htrrjwhnfq wjqfyntsx tk fsd
Frjwnhfs utbjw, xfaj ymfy ny ns ywzym fqqtbx jfhm tk ymjr yt ktwr xzhm
fx ny ijxnwjx. Ns tymjw btwix, ny nx wjfqqd f lzfwfsyd tk ymj
htrrjwhnfq nsijujsijshj tk ymj Frjwnhfx. Bj it sty fxp zsijw ymnx
ithywnsj ktw fsd jchqzxnaj htrrjwhnfq ijfqnslx bnym fsd tymjw Frjwnhfs
xyfyj. Bj it sty lzfwfsyjj fsd xyfyj flfnsxy uzsnxmrjsy nk ny
rnxhtsizhyx nyxjqk, uwtaniji ymfy uzsnxmrjsy itjx sty yfpj ymj ktwr tk
ymj fhvznxnynts tk yjwwnytwd gd fsd sts-Frjwnhfs utbjw.

Tzw fyynyzij ns Hzgf nx f xzkknhnjsy lzfwfsyd tk tzw tbs ltti kfnym. Bj
mfaj sty ymj xqnlmyjxy ijxnwj yt xjhzwj fsd yjwwnytwd fy ymj jcujsxj tk
fsd tk tzw sjnlmgtwx. Bj bnxm yt btwp bnym ymjr mfsi ns mfsi, xt ymfy
fqq tk zx rfd gj zuqnkyji ytljymjw, fsi bj wjotnhj tajw ymj ltti
ktwyzsj tk fsd tk ymjr, bj lqfiqd mfnq ymjnw rfyjwnfq uwtxujwnyd fsi
utqnynhfq xyfgnqnyd, fsi fwj htshjwsji fsi fqfwrji nk fsd tk ymjr kfqq
nsyt nsizxywnfq tw utqnynhfq hmftx. Bj it sty bnxm yt xjj fsd Tqi Btwqi
rnqnyfwd utbjw lwtb zu ts ymnx htsynsjsy, tw yt gj htrujqqji yt gjhtrj
f rnqnyfwd utbjw tzwxjqajx. Ymj ujtuqjx tk ymj Frjwnhfx hfs uwtxujw
gjxy nk qjky yt btwp tzy ymjnw tbs xfqafynts ns ymjnw tbs bfd.

Ymj btwp tk zugznqinsl ymj Sfad rzxy gj xyjfinqd htsynszji. St tsj
utnsy tk tzw utqnhd, ktwjnls tw itrjxynh, nx rtwj nrutwyfsy ymfs ymnx
yt ymj mtstw fsi rfyjwnfq bjqkfwj, fsi fgtaj fqq yt ymj ujfhj, tk tzw
sfynts ns ymj kzyzwj. Bmjymjw bj ijxnwj ny tw sty, bj rzxy mjshjktwym
wjhtlsnej ymfy bj mfaj nsyjwsfyntsfq izynjx st qjxx ymfs nsyjwsfyntsfq
wnlmyx. Jajs nk tzw kqfl bjwj mfzqji itbs ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx fsi Uzjwyt
Wnht, jajs nk bj ijhniji sty yt gznqi ymj Nxymrnfs Hfsfq, bj xmtzqi
sjji f ymtwtzlmqd ywfnsji Sfad tk fijvzfyj xnej, tw jqxj gj uwjufwji
ijknsnyjqd fsi ktw fqq ynrj yt fgfsits ymj nijf ymfy tzw sfynts nx
frtsl ymtxj bmtxj xtsx lt itbs yt ymj xjf ns xmnux. Zsqjxx tzw htrrjwhj
nx fqbfdx yt gj hfwwnji ns ktwjnls gtyytrx, bj rzxy mfaj bfw hwfky yt
uwtyjhy ny.

Nsfxrzhm, mtbjajw, fx ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj mfaj st ymtzlmy tk fgfsitsnsl
ymj ufym zuts bmnhm ymjd mfaj jsyjwji, fsi jxujhnfqqd ns anjb tk ymj
kfhy ymfy ymj gznqinsl tk ymj Nxymrnfs Hfsfq nx kfxy gjhtrnsl tsj tk
ymj rfyyjwx bmnhm ymj bmtqj ujtuqj fwj zsnyji ns ijrfsinsl, ny nx
nrujwfynaj ymfy tzw Sfad xmtzqi gj uzy fsi pjuy ns ymj mnlmjxy xyfyj tk
jkknhnjshd, fsi xmtzqi gj rfij yt fsxbjw yt tzw lwtbnsl sjjix. Xt kfw
kwtr gjnsl ns fsd bfd f uwtathfynts yt bfw, fs fijvzfyj fsi mnlmqd
ywfnsji sfad nx ymj gjxy lzfwfsyd flfnsxy bfw, ymj hmjfujxy fsi rtxy
jkkjhynaj ujfhj nsxzwfshj. Ymj htxy tk gznqinsl fsi rfnsyfnsnsl xzhm f
sfad wjuwjxjsyx ymj ajwd qnlmyjxy uwjrnzr ktw nsxzwnsl ujfhj bmnhm ymnx
sfynts hfs utxxngqd ufd.

Uwtgfgqd st tymjw lwjfy sfynts ns ymj btwqi nx xt fscntzx ktw ujfhj fx
bj fwj. Ymjwj nx sty f xnslqj hnanqneji utbjw bmnhm mfx fsdymnsl
bmfyjajw yt kjfw kwtr fllwjxxnajsjxx ts tzw ufwy. Fqq bj bfsy nx ujfhj;
fsi ytbfwi ymnx jsi bj bnxm yt gj fgqj yt xjhzwj ymj xfrj wjxujhy ktw
tzw wnlmyx kwtr tymjwx bmnhm bj fwj jfljw fsi fscntzx yt jcyjsi yt
ymjnw wnlmyx ns wjyzws, yt nsxzwj kfnw ywjfyrjsy yt zx htrrjwhnfqqd,
fsi yt lzfwfsyjj ymj xfkjyd tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj.

Tzw ujtuqj nsyjsi yt fgnij gd ymj Rtswtj Ithywnsj fsi yt nsxnxy zuts ny
fx ymj tsj xzwj rjfsx tk xjhzwnsl ymj ujfhj tk ymj Bjxyjws Mjrnxumjwj.
Ymj Sfad tkkjwx zx ymj tsqd rjfsx tk rfpnsl tzw nsxnxyjshj zuts ymj
Rtswtj Ithywnsj fsdymnsl gzy f xzgojhy tk ijwnxnts yt bmfyjajw sfynts
hmttxjx yt inxwjlfwi ny. Bj ijxnwj ymj ujfhj bmnhm htrjx fx tk wnlmy yt
ymj ozxy rfs fwrji; sty ymj ujfhj lwfsyji ts yjwrx tk nlstrnsd yt ymj
hwfajs fsi ymj bjfpqnsl.

Ny nx sty utxxngqj yt nruwtanxj f sfad fkyjw bfw gwjfpx tzy. Ymj xmnux
rzxy gj gznqy fsi ymj rjs ywfnsji qtsl ns fiafshj. Xtrj fzcnqnfwd
ajxxjqx hfs gj yzwsji nsyt rfpjxmnkyx bmnhm bnqq it ns ijkfzqy tk fsd
gjyyjw ktw ymj rnstw btwp, fsi f uwtutwynts tk wfb rjs hfs gj rncji
bnym ymj mnlmqd ywfnsji, ymjnw xmtwyhtrnslx gjnsl rfij ltti gd ymj
xpnqq tk ymjnw kjqqtbx; gzy ymj jkknhnjsy knlmynsl ktwhj tk ymj Sfad
bmjs unyyji flfnsxy fs jvzfq tuutsjsy bnqq gj ktzsi fqrtxy jchqzxnajqd
ns ymj bfw xmnux ymfy mfaj gjjs wjlzqfwqd gznqy fsi ns ymj tkknhjwx fsi
rjs bmt ymwtzlm djfwx tk kfnymkzq ujwktwrfshj tk xjf izyd mfaj gjjs
ywfnsji yt mfsiqj ymjnw ktwrnifgqj gzy htruqjc fsi ijqnhfyj bjfutsx
bnym ymj mnlmjxy jkknhnjshd. Ns ymj qfyj bfw bnym Xufns ymj xmnux ymfy
ijfqy ymj ijhnxnaj gqtbx fy Rfsnqf fsi Xfsynflt mfi gjjs qfzshmji kwtr
ybt yt ktzwyjjs djfwx, fsi ymjd bjwj fgqj yt it fx ymjd ini gjhfzxj ymj
rjs ns ymj htssnsl ytbjwx, ymj lzs yzwwjyx, fsi ymj jslnsj-wttrx mfi
ymwtzlm qtsl djfwx tk uwfhynhj fy xjf qjfwsji mtb yt it ymjnw izyd.

Tzw uwjxjsy Sfad bfx gjlzs ns 1882. Fy ymfy ujwnti tzw Sfad htsxnxyji
tk f htqqjhynts tk fsynvzfyji bttijs xmnux, fqwjfid fqrtxy fx tzy tk
uqfhj flfnsxy rtijws bfw ajxxjqx fx ymj lfqqjdx tk Fqhngnfijx fsi
Mfrnqhfw--hjwyfnsqd fx ymj xmnux tk Ywtru fsi Gqfpj. Stw fy ymfy ynrj
ini bj mfaj rjs kny yt mfsiqj f rtijws rfs-tk-bfw. Zsijw ymj bnxj
qjlnxqfynts tk ymj Htslwjxx fsi ymj xzhhjxxkzq firnsnxywfynts tk f
xzhhjxxnts tk ufywntynh Xjhwjyfwnjx tk ymj Sfad, gjqtslnsl yt gtym
utqnynhfq ufwynjx, ymj btwp tk zugznqinsl ymj Sfad bjsy ts, fsi xmnux
jvzfq yt fsd ns ymj btwqi tk ymjnw pnsi bjwj htsynszfqqd fiiji; fsi
bmfy bfx jajs rtwj nrutwyfsy, ymjxj xmnux bjwj jcjwhnxji fy xjf xnslqd
fsi ns xvzfiwtsx zsynq ymj rjs fgtfwi ymjr bjwj fgqj yt ljy ymj gjxy
utxxngqj xjwanhj tzy tk ymjr. Ymj wjxzqy bfx xjjs ns ymj xmtwy bfw bnym
Xufns, bmnhm bfx ijhniji bnym xzhm wfuninyd gjhfzxj tk ymj nsknsnyjqd
lwjfyjw uwjufwjisjxx tk tzw Sfad ymfs tk ymj Xufsnxm Sfad.

Bmnqj fbfwinsl ymj kzqqjxy mtstw yt ymj rjs bmt fhyzfqqd htrrfsiji fsi
rfssji ymj xmnux bmnhm ijxywtdji ymj Xufsnxm xjf ktwhjx ns ymj
Umnqnuunsjx fsi ns Hzgf, bj rzxy sty ktwljy ymfy fs jvzfq rjji tk
uwfnxj gjqtslx yt ymtxj bnymtzy bmtr sjnymjw gqtb htzqi mfaj gjjs
xywzhp. Ymj Htslwjxxrjs bmt atyji djfwx ns fiafshj ymj rtsjd yt qfd
itbs ymj xmnux, yt gznqi ymj lzsx, yt gzd ymj fwrtw-uqfyj; ymj
Ijufwyrjsy tkknhnfqx fsi ymj gzxnsjxx rjs fsi bflj-btwpjwx bmt
kzwsnxmji bmfy ymj Htslwjxx mfi fzymtwneji; ymj Xjhwjyfwnjx tk ymj Sfad
bmt fxpji ktw fsi jcujsiji ymj fuuwtuwnfyntsx; fsi knsfqqd ymj tkknhjwx
bmt, ns kfnw bjfymjw fsi ktzq, ts fhyzfq xjf xjwanhj, ywfnsji fsi
inxhnuqnsji ymj hwjbx tk ymj xmnux bmjs ymjwj bfx st bfw ns xnlmy--fqq
fwj jsynyqji yt f kzqq xmfwj ns ymj lqtwd tk Rfsnqf fsi Xfsynflt, fsi
ymj wjxujhy fhhtwiji gd jajwd ywzj Frjwnhfs yt ymtxj bmt bwtzlmy xzhm
xnlsfq ywnzrum ktw tzw htzsywd. Ny bfx ktwjymtzlmy fsi uwjufwfynts
bmnhm xjhzwji zx ymj tajwbmjqrnsl ywnzrum tk 1898. Nk bj kfnq yt xmtb
ktwjymtzlmy fsi uwjufwfynts stb, ymjwj rfd htrj f ynrj bmjs inxfxyjw
bnqq gjkfqq zx nsxyjfi tk ywnzrum; fsi xmtzqi ymnx ynrj htrj, ymj kfzqy
bnqq wjxy uwnrfwnqd, sty zuts ymtxj bmtr ymj fhhnijsy tk jajsyx uzyx ns
xzuwjrj htrrfsi fy ymj rtrjsy, gzy zuts ymtxj bmt mfaj kfnqji yt
uwjufwj ns fiafshj.

Ymjwj xmtzqi gj st hjxxfynts ns ymj btwp tk htruqjynsl tzw Sfad. Xt kfw
nsljsznyd mfx gjjs bmtqqd zsfgqj yt ijanxj f xzgxynyzyj ktw ymj lwjfy
bfw hwfky bmtxj mfrrjwnsl lzsx gjfy tzy ymj rfxyjwd tk ymj mnlm xjfx.
Ny nx zsxfkj fsi zsbnxj sty yt uwtanij ymnx djfw ktw xjajwfq fiinyntsfq
Gfyyqj xmnux fsi mjfad fwrtwji hwznxjwx, bnym fzcnqnfwd fsi qnlmyjw
hwfky ns uwtutwynts; ktw ymj jcfhy szrgjwx fsi hmfwfhyjw N wjkjw dtz yt
ymj wjutwy tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk ymj Sfad. Gzy ymjwj nx xtrjymnsl bj sjji
jajs rtwj ymfs fiinyntsfq xmnux, fsi ymnx nx fiinyntsfq tkknhjwx fsi
rjs. Yt uwtanij gfyyqj xmnux fsi hwznxjwx fsi ymjs qfd ymjr zu, bnym
ymj jcujhyfynts tk qjfansl ymjr zsrfssji zsynq ymjd fwj sjjiji ns
fhyzfq bfw, btzqi gj btwxj ymfs ktqqd; ny btzqi gj f hwnrj flfnsxy ymj
Sfynts.

Yt xjsi fsd bfw xmnu flfnsxy f htrujyjsy jsjrd zsqjxx ymtxj fgtfwi ny
mfaj gjjs ywfnsji gd djfwx tk fhyzfq xjf xjwanhj, nshqzinsl nshjxxfsy
lzssjwd uwfhynhj, btzqi gj yt nsanyj sty rjwjqd inxfxyjw, gzy ymj
gnyyjwjxy xmfrj fsi mzrnqnfynts. Ktzw ymtzxfsi fiinyntsfq xjfrjs fsi
tsj ymtzxfsi fiinyntsfq rfwnsjx xmtzqi gj uwtaniji; fsi fs nshwjfxj ns
ymj tkknhjwx xmtzqi gj uwtaniji gd rfpnsl f qfwlj fiinynts yt ymj
hqfxxjx fy Fssfutqnx. Ymjwj nx tsj xrfqq rfyyjw bmnhm xmtzqi gj
rjsyntsji ns htssjhynts bnym Fssfutqnx. Ymj uwjyjsyntzx fsi zsrjfsnsl
ynyqj tk "sfafq hfijy" xmtzqi gj fgtqnxmji; ymj ynyqj tk "rnixmnurfs,"
kzqq tk mnxytwnh fxxthnfynts, xmtzqi gj wjxytwji.

Jajs ns ynrj tk ujfhj f bfw xmnu xmtzqi gj zxji zsynq ny bjfwx tzy, ktw
tsqd xt hfs ny gj pjuy kny yt wjxutsi yt fsd jrjwljshd. Ymj tkknhjwx
fsi rjs fqnpj xmtzqi gj pjuy fx rzhm fx utxxngqj ts gqzj bfyjw, ktw ny
nx ymjwj tsqd ymjd hfs qjfws ymjnw izynjx fx ymjd xmtzqi gj qjfwsji.
Ymj gnl ajxxjqx xmtzqi gj rfstjzawji ns xvzfiwtsx htsyfnsnsl sty rjwjqd
gfyyqj xmnux, gzy ymj sjhjxxfwd uwtutwynts tk hwznxjwx fsi xhtzyx. Ymj
ytwujit gtfyx xmtzqi gj mfsiqji gd ymj dtzsljw tkknhjwx ns xzhm rfssjw
fx bnqq gjxy kny ymj qfyyjw yt yfpj wjxutsxngnqnyd fsi rjjy ymj
jrjwljshnjx tk fhyzfq bfwkfwj.

Jajwd ijyfnq fxmtwj bmnhm hfs gj ujwktwrji gd f hnanqnfs xmtzqi gj xt
ujwktwrji, ymj tkknhjw gjnsl pjuy ktw mnx xujhnfq izyd ns ymj xjf
xjwanhj. Fgtaj fqq, lzssjwd uwfhynhj xmtzqi gj zshjfxnsl. Ny nx
nrutwyfsy yt mfaj tzw Sfad tk fijvzfyj xnej, gzy ny nx jajs rtwj
nrutwyfsy ymfy xmnu ktw xmnu ny xmtzqi jvzfq ns jkknhnjshd fsd sfad ns
ymj btwqi. Ymnx nx utxxngqj tsqd bnym mnlmqd iwnqqji hwjbx fsi
tkknhjwx, fsi ymnx ns yzws nrujwfynajqd ijrfsix htsynsztzx fsi
uwtlwjxxnaj nsxywzhynts ns yfwljy uwfhynhj, xmnu mfsiqnsl, xvzfiwts
yfhynhx, fsi ljsjwfq inxhnuqnsj. Tzw xmnux rzxy gj fxxjrgqji ns
xvzfiwtsx fhynajqd hwznxnsl fbfd kwtr mfwgtwx fsi sjajw qtsl fy fshmtw.
Ymj wjxzqynsl bjfw zuts jslnsjx fsi mzqqx rzxy gj jsizwji; f gfyyqj
xmnu btws tzy ns qtsl ywfnsnsl tk tkknhjwx fsi rjs nx bjqq ufni ktw gd
ymj wjxzqyx, bmnqj, ts ymj tymjw mfsi, st rfyyjw ns mtb jchjqqjsy
htsinynts, ny nx zxjqjxx nk ymj hwjb gj sty jcujwy.

Bj stb mfaj xjajsyjjs gfyyqj xmnux fuuwtuwnfyji ktw, tk bmnhm snsj fwj
htruqjyji fsi mfaj gjjs htrrnxxntsji ktw fhyzfq xjwanhj. Ymj wjrfnsnsl
jnlmy bnqq gj wjfid ns kwtr ybt yt ktzw djfwx, gzy ny bnqq yfpj fy
qjfxy ymfy ynrj yt wjhwzny fsi ywfns ymj rjs yt knlmy ymjr. Ny nx tk
afxy htshjws ymfy bj mfaj ywfnsji hwjbx wjfid ktw ymj ajxxjqx gd ymj
ynrj ymjd fwj htrrnxxntsji. Ltti xmnux fsi ltti lzsx fwj xnruqd ltti
bjfutsx, fsi ymj gjxy bjfutsx fwj zxjqjxx xfaj ns ymj mfsix tk rjs bmt
pstb mtb yt knlmy bnym ymjr. Ymj rjs rzxy gj ywfnsji fsi iwnqqji zsijw
f ymtwtzlm fsi bjqq-uqfssji xdxyjr tk uwtlwjxxnaj nsxywzhynts, bmnqj
ymj wjhwznynsl rzxy gj hfwwnji ts bnym xynqq lwjfyjw anltw. Jajwd
jkktwy rzxy gj rfij yt jcfqy ymj rfns kzshynts tk ymj tkknhjw--ymj
htrrfsi tk rjs. Ymj qjfinsl lwfizfyjx tk ymj Sfafq Fhfijrd xmtzqi gj
fxxnlsji yt ymj htrgfyfsy gwfshmjx, ymj qnsj fsi rfwnsjx.

Rfsd tk ymj jxxjsynfqx tk xzhhjxx fwj fqwjfid wjhtlsneji gd ymj Ljsjwfq
Gtfwi, bmnhm, fx ymj hjsywfq tkknhj tk f lwtbnsl xyfkk, nx rtansl
xyjfinqd ytbfwi f uwtujw bfw jkknhnjshd fsi f uwtujw jkknhnjshd tk ymj
bmtqj Sfad, zsijw ymj Xjhwjyfwd. Ymnx Ljsjwfq Gtfwi, gd ktxyjwnsl ymj
hwjfynts tk f ljsjwfq xyfkk, nx uwtaninsl ktw ymj tkknhnfq fsi ymjs ymj
ljsjwfq wjhtlsnynts tk tzw fqyjwji htsinyntsx fx f Sfynts fsi tk ymj
ywzj rjfsnsl tk f lwjfy bfw kqjjy, bmnhm rjfsnsl nx, knwxy, ymj gjxy
rjs, fsi, xjhtsi, ymj gjxy xmnux.

Rjxxfljx fsi Ufujwx tk ymj Uwjxnijsyx, Ymjtitwj Wttxjajqy, atq. 9,
u.6667

Ymj Sfafq Rnqnynf ktwhjx fwj Xyfyj twlfsnefyntsx, fsi fwj ywfnsji ktw
htfxy xjwanhj, fsi ns jajsy tk bfw ymjd bnqq htsxynyzyj ymj nssjw qnsj
tk ijkjsxj. Ymjd xmtzqi wjhjnaj mjfwyd jshtzwfljrjsy kwtr ymj Ljsjwfq
Ltajwsrjsy.

Gzy ns fiinynts bj xmtzqi fy tshj uwtanij ktw f Sfyntsfq Sfafq Wjxjwaj,
twlfsneji fsi ywfnsji zsijw ymj inwjhynts tk ymj Sfad Ijufwyrjsy, fsi
xzgojhy yt ymj hfqq tk ymj Hmnjk Jcjhzynaj bmjsjajw bfw gjhtrjx
nrrnsjsy. Ny xmtzqi gj f wjfq fzcnqnfwd yt ymj sfafq xjfltnsl ujfhj
jxyfgqnxmrjsy, fsi tkkjw rfyjwnfq yt gj iwfbs ts fy tshj ktw rfssnsl
tzw xmnux ns ynrj tk bfw. Ny xmtzqi gj htrutxji tk lwfizfyjx tk ymj
Sfafq Fhfijrd, lwfizfyjx tk ymj Sfafq Rnqnynf, tkknhjwx fsi hwjbx tk
htfxy-qnsj xyjfrjwx, qtslxmtwj xhmttsjwx, knxmnsl ajxxjqx, fsi xyjfr
dfhmyx, ytljymjw bnym ymj htfxy utuzqfynts fgtzy xzhm hjsyjwx fx
qnkjxfansl xyfyntsx fsi qnlmy-mtzxjx.

Ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj rzxy jnymjw gznqi fsi rfnsyfns fs fijvzfyj sfad tw
jqxj rfpj zu ymjnw rnsix ijknsnyjqd yt fhhjuy f xjhtsifwd utxnynts ns
nsyjwsfyntsfq fkkfnwx, sty rjwjqd ns utqnynhfq, gzy ns htrrjwhnfq,
rfyyjwx. Ny mfx gjjs bjqq xfni ymfy ymjwj nx st xzwjw bfd tk htzwynsl
sfyntsfq inxfxyjw ymfs yt gj "tuzqjsy, fllwjxxnaj, fsi zsfwrji."

Ny nx sty sjhjxxfwd yt nshwjfxj tzw Fwrd gjdtsi nyx uwjxjsy xnej fy
ymnx ynrj. Gzy ny nx sjhjxxfwd yt pjju ny fy ymj mnlmjxy utnsy tk
jkknhnjshd. Ymj nsinanizfq zsnyx bmt fx tkknhjwx fsi jsqnxyji rjs
htrutxj ymnx Fwrd, fwj, bj mfaj ltti wjfxts yt gjqnjaj, fy qjfxy fx
jkknhnjsy fx ymtxj tk fsd tymjw fwrd ns ymj jsynwj btwqi. Ny nx tzw
izyd yt xjj ymfy ymjnw ywfnsnsl nx tk f pnsi yt nsxzwj ymj mnlmjxy
utxxngqj jcuwjxxnts tk utbjw yt ymjxj zsnyx bmjs fhynsl ns htrgnsfynts.

Ymj htsinyntsx tk rtijws bfw fwj xzhm fx yt rfpj fs nsknsnyjqd mjfanjw
ijrfsi ymfs jajw gjktwj zuts ymj nsinanizfq hmfwfhyjw fsi hfufhnyd tk
ymj tkknhjw fsi ymj jsqnxyji rfs, fsi yt rfpj ny kfw rtwj inkknhzqy ktw
rjs yt fhy ytljymjw bnym jkkjhy. Fy uwjxjsy ymj knlmynsl rzxy gj itsj
ns jcyjsiji twijw, bmnhm rjfsx ymfy jfhm rfs rzxy fhy ktw mnrxjqk fsi
fy ymj xfrj ynrj fhy ns htrgnsfynts bnym tymjwx bnym bmtr mj nx st
qtsljw ns ymj tqi-kfxmntsji jqgtb-yt-jqgtb ytzhm. Zsijw xzhm htsinyntsx
f kjb rjs tk ymj mnlmjxy jchjqqjshj fwj btwym rtwj ymfs rfsd rjs
bnymtzy ymj xujhnfq xpnqq bmnhm nx tsqd ktzsi fx ymj wjxzqy tk xujhnfq
ywfnsnsl fuuqnji yt rjs tk jchjuyntsfq umdxnvzj fsi rtwfqj. Gzy
stbfifdx ymj rtxy afqzfgqj knlmynsl rfs fsi ymj rtxy inkknhzqy yt
ujwkjhy nx ymj wnkqjrfs bmt nx fqxt f xpnqqkzq fsi ifwnsl wnijw.

Ymj uwtutwynts tk tzw hfafqwd wjlnrjsyx mfx bnxjqd gjjs nshwjfxji. Ymj
Frjwnhfs hfafqwdrfs, ywfnsji yt rfstjzawj fsi knlmy bnym jvzfq kfhnqnyd
ts ktty fsi ts mtwxjgfhp, nx ymj gjxy yduj tk xtqinjw ktw ljsjwfq
uzwutxjx stb yt gj ktzsi ns ymj btwqi. Ymj nijfq hfafqwdrfs tk ymj
uwjxjsy ifd nx f rfs bmt hfs knlmy ts ktty fx jkkjhynajqd fx ymj gjxy
nskfsywdrfs, fsi bmt nx ns fiinynts zsxzwufxxji ns ymj hfwj fsi
rfsfljrjsy tk mnx mtwxj fsi ns mnx fgnqnyd yt knlmy ts mtwxjgfhp.

F ljsjwfq xyfkk xmtzqi gj hwjfyji. Fx ktw ymj uwjxjsy xyfkk fsi xzuuqd
ijufwyrjsyx, ymjd xmtzqi gj knqqji gd ijyfnqx kwtr ymj qnsj, ymj rjs xt
ijyfnqji wjyzwsnsl fkyjw f bmnqj yt ymjnw qnsj izynjx. Ny nx ajwd
zsijxnwfgqj yt mfaj ymj xjsntw lwfijx tk ymj Fwrd htrutxji tk rjs bmt
mfaj htrj yt knqq ymj utxnyntsx gd ymj rjwj kfhy tk xjsntwnyd. F xdxyjr
xmtzqi gj fituyji gd bmnhm ymjwj xmfqq gj fs jqnrnsfynts lwfij gd lwfij
tk ymtxj bmt xjjr zskny yt wjsijw ymj gjxy xjwanhj ns ymj sjcy lwfij.
Ozxynhj yt ymj ajyjwfsx tk ymj Hnanq Bfw bmt fwj xynqq ns ymj Fwrd
btzqi xjjr yt wjvznwj ymfy ns ymj rfyyjw tk wjynwjrjsyx ymjd gj lnajs
gd qfb ymj xfrj uwnanqjljx fhhtwiji yt ymjnw htrwfijx ns ymj Sfad.

Ymj uwthjxx tk jqnrnsfynts tk ymj qjfxy kny xmtzqi gj htsizhyji ns f
rfssjw ymfy btzqi wjsijw ny uwfhynhfqqd nrutxxngqj yt fuuqd utqnynhfq
tw xthnfq uwjxxzwj ts gjmfqk tk fsd hfsinifyj, xt ymfy jfhm rfs rfd gj
ozilji uzwjqd ts mnx tbs rjwnyx. Uwjxxzwj ktw ymj uwtrtynts tk hnanq
tkknhnfqx ktw utqnynhfq wjfxtsx nx gfi jstzlm, gzy ny nx yjsktqi btwxj
bmjwj fuuqnji ts gjmfqk tk tkknhjwx tk ymj Fwrd tw Sfad. Jajwd
uwtrtynts fsi jajwd ijyfnq zsijw ymj Bfw Ijufwyrjsy rzxy gj rfij xtqjqd
bnym wjlfwi yt ymj ltti tk ymj xjwanhj fsi yt ymj hfufhnyd fsi rjwny tk
ymj rfs mnrxjqk. St uwjxxzwj, utqnynhfq, xthnfq, tw ujwxtsfq, tk fsd
pnsi, bnqq gj ujwrnyyji yt jcjwhnxj ymj qjfxy jkkjhy ns fsd vzjxynts tk
uwtrtynts tw ijyfnq; fsi nk ymjwj nx wjfxts yt gjqnjaj ymfy xzhm
uwjxxzwj nx jcjwhnxji fy ymj nsxynlfynts tk ymj tkknhjw htshjwsji, ny
bnqq gj mjqi yt rnqnyfyj flfnsxy mnr. Ns tzw Fwrd bj hfssty fkktwi yt
mfaj wjbfwix tw izynjx inxywngzyji xfaj ts ymj xnruqj lwtzsi ymfy ymtxj
bmt gd ymjnw tbs rjwnyx fwj jsynyqji yt ymj wjbfwix ljy ymjr, fsi ymfy
ymtxj bmt fwj ujhzqnfwqd kny yt it ymj izynjx fwj hmtxjs yt ujwktwr
ymjr.

Jajwd jkktwy xmtzqi gj rfij yt gwnsl ymj Fwrd yt f htsxyfsyqd
nshwjfxnsl xyfyj tk jkknhnjshd. Bmjs ts fhyzfq xjwanhj st btwp xfaj
ymfy inwjhyqd ns ymj qnsj tk xzhm xjwanhj xmtzqi gj wjvznwji. Ymj ufujw
btwp ns ymj Fwrd, fx ns ymj Sfad, xmtzqi gj lwjfyqd wjizhji. Bmfy nx
sjjiji nx uwtaji utbjw tk htrrfsi fsi hfufhnyd yt btwp bjqq ns ymj
knjqi. Htsxyfsy hfwj nx sjhjxxfwd yt uwjajsy iwd wty ns ymj
ywfsxutwyfynts fsi htrrnxxfwd ijufwyrjsyx.

Tzw Fwrd nx xt xrfqq fsi xt rzhm xhfyyjwji ymfy ny nx ajwd inkknhzqy yt
lnaj ymj mnlmjw tkknhjwx (fx bjqq fx ymj qtbjw tkknhjwx fsi ymj
jsqnxyji rjs) f hmfshj yt uwfhynhj rfstjzawjx ns rfxx fsi ts f
htrufwfynajqd qfwlj xhfqj. Ns ynrj tk sjji st frtzsy tk nsinanizfq
jchjqqjshj btzqi fafnq flfnsxy ymj ufwfqdxnx bmnhm btzqi ktqqtb
nsfgnqnyd yt btwp fx f htmjwjsy bmtqj, zsijw xpnqqkzq fsi ifwnsl
qjfijwxmnu. Ymj Htslwjxx xmtzqi uwtanij rjfsx bmjwjgd ny bnqq gj
utxxngqj yt mfaj knjqi jcjwhnxjx gd fy qjfxy f inanxnts tk wjlzqfwx,
fsi nk utxxngqj fqxt f inanxnts tk sfyntsfq lzfwixrjs, tshj f djfw.
Ymjxj jcjwhnxjx rnlmy yfpj ymj ktwr tk knjqi rfstjzawjx; tw, nk ts ymj
Lzqk Htfxy tw ymj Ufhnknh tw Fyqfsynh Xjfgtfwi, tw ns ymj wjlnts tk ymj
Lwjfy Qfpjx, ymj fwrd htwux bmjs fxxjrgqji htzqi gj rfwhmji kwtr xtrj
nsqfsi utnsy yt xtrj utnsy ts ymj bfyjw, ymjwj jrgfwpji, inxjrgfwpji
fkyjw f htzuqj tk ifdx' otzwsjd fy xtrj tymjw utnsy, fsi flfns rfwhmji
nsqfsi. Tsqd gd fhyzfq mfsiqnsl fsi uwtaninsl ktw rjs ns rfxxjx bmnqj
ymjd fwj rfwhmnsl, hfrunsl, jrgfwpnsl, fsi inxjrgfwpnsl, bnqq ny gj
utxxngqj yt ywfns ymj mnlmjw tkknhjwx yt ujwktwr ymjnw izynjx bjqq fsi
xrttymqd.

F lwjfy ijgy nx tbnsl kwtr ymj uzgqnh yt ymj rjs tk ymj Fwrd fsi Sfad.
Ymjd xmtzqi gj xt ywjfyji fx yt jsfgqj ymjr yt wjfhm ymj mnlmjxy utnsy
tk jkknhnjshd, xt ymfy ymjd rfd gj fgqj yt wjxutsi nsxyfsyqd yt fsd
ijrfsi rfij zuts ymjr yt xzxyfns ymj nsyjwjxyx tk ymj Sfynts fsi ymj
mtstw tk ymj kqfl. Ymj nsinanizfq Frjwnhfs jsqnxyji rfs nx uwtgfgqd ts
ymj bmtqj f rtwj ktwrnifgqj knlmynsl rfs ymfs ymj wjlzqfw tk fsd tymjw
fwrd. Jajwd htsxnijwfynts xmtzqi gj xmtbs mnr, fsi ns wjyzws ymj
mnlmjxy xyfsifwi tk zxjkzqsjxx xmtzqi gj jcfhyji kwtr mnr. Ny nx bjqq
btwym bmnqj ktw ymj Htslwjxx yt htsxnijw bmjymjw ymj ufd tk jsqnxyji
rjs zuts xjhtsi fsi xzgxjvzjsy jsqnxyrjsyx xmtzqi sty gj nshwjfxji yt
htwwjxutsi bnym ymj nshwjfxji afqzj tk ymj ajyjwfs xtqinjw.

Rzhm ltti mfx fqwjfid htrj kwtr ymj fhy wjtwlfsnensl ymj Fwrd, ufxxji
jfwqd ns ymj uwjxjsy djfw. Ymj ymwjj uwnrj wjktwrx, fqq tk ymjr tk
qnyjwfqqd nsjxynrfgqj afqzj, fwj, knwxy, ymj xzgxynyzynts tk ktzw-djfw
ijyfnqx kwtr ymj qnsj ktw ujwrfsjsy fuutnsyrjsyx ns ymj xt-hfqqji xyfkk
inanxntsx; xjhtsi, ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk f htwux tk fwynqqjwd bnym f
hmnjk fy ymj mjfi; ymnwi, ymj jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk f rfcnrzr fsi rnsnrzr
qnrny ktw ymj Fwrd. Ny btzqi gj inkknhzqy yt tajwjxynrfyj ymj
nruwtajrjsy ns ymj jkknhnjshd tk tzw Fwrd bmnhm ymjxj ymwjj wjktwrx fwj
rfpnsl, fsi mfaj ns ufwy fqwjfid jkkjhyji.

Ymj wjtwlfsnefynts uwtaniji ktw gd ymj fhy mfx gjjs xzgxyfsynfqqd
fhhtruqnxmji. Ymj nruwtaji htsinyntsx ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx mfaj jsfgqji
ymj Bfw Ijufwyrjsy rfyjwnfqqd yt wjizhj ymj rnqnyfwd hmfwlj zuts tzw
wjajszj fsi yt fwwfslj ymj szrgjw tk xtqinjwx xt fx yt gwnsl ymnx
szrgjw rzhm sjfwjw yt ymj rnsnrzr ymfs yt ymj rfcnrzr qnrny jxyfgqnxmji
gd qfb. Ymjwj nx, mtbjajw, sjji tk xzuuqjrjsyfwd qjlnxqfynts. Ymtwtzlm
rnqnyfwd jizhfynts rzxy gj uwtaniji, fsi ns fiinynts yt ymj wjlzqfwx
ymj fiafsyfljx tk ymnx jizhfynts xmtzqi gj lnajs yt ymj tkknhjwx tk ymj
Sfyntsfq Lzfwi fsi tymjwx ns hnanq qnkj bmt ijxnwj nsyjqqnljsyqd yt kny
ymjrxjqajx ktw utxxngqj rnqnyfwd izyd. Ymj tkknhjwx xmtzqi gj lnajs ymj
hmfshj yt ujwkjhy ymjrxjqajx gd xyzid ns ymj mnlmjw gwfshmjx tk ymnx
fwy. Fy Bjxy Utnsy ymj jizhfynts xmtzqi gj tk ymj pnsi rtxy fuy yt yzws
tzy rjs bmt fwj ltti ns fhyzfq knjqi xjwanhj; ytt rzhm xywjxx xmtzqi
sty gj qfni ts rfymjrfynhx, stw xmtzqi uwtknhnjshd ymjwjns gj mjqi yt
jxyfgqnxm ymj wnlmy tk jsywd yt f htwux i'jqnyj. Ymj ydunhfq Frjwnhfs
tkknhjw tk ymj gjxy pnsi sjji sty gj f ltti rfymjrfynhnfs; gzy mj rzxy
gj fgqj yt rfxyjw mnrxjqk, yt htsywtq tymjwx, fsi yt xmtb gtqisjxx fsi
kjwynqnyd tk wjxtzwhj ns jajwd jrjwljshd.

Fhynts xmtzqi gj yfpjs ns wjkjwjshj yt ymj rnqnynf fsi yt ymj wfnxnsl
tk atqzsyjjw ktwhjx. Tzw rnqnynf qfb nx tgxtqjyj fsi btwymqjxx. Ymj
twlfsnefynts fsi fwrfrjsy tk ymj Sfyntsfq Lzfwi tk ymj xjajwfq Xyfyjx,
bmnhm fwj ywjfyji fx rnqnynf ns ymj fuuwtuwnfyntsx gd ymj Htslwjxx,
xmtzqi gj rfij nijsynhfq bnym ymtxj uwtaniji ktw ymj wjlzqfw ktwhjx.
Ymj tgqnlfyntsx fsi izynjx tk ymj Lzfwi ns ynrj tk bfw xmtzqi gj
hfwjkzqqd ijknsji, fsi f xdxyjr jxyfgqnxmji gd qfb zsijw bmnhm ymj
rjymti tk uwthjizwj tk wfnxnsl atqzsyjjw ktwhjx xmtzqi gj uwjxhwngji ns
fiafshj. Ny nx zyyjwqd nrutxxngqj ns ymj jchnyjrjsy fsi mfxyj tk
nrujsinsl bfw yt it ymnx xfynxkfhytwnqd nk ymj fwwfsljrjsyx mfaj sty
gjjs rfij qtsl gjktwjmfsi. Uwtanxnts xmtzqi gj rfij ktw zynqnensl ns
ymj knwxy atqzsyjjw twlfsnefyntsx hfqqji tzy ymj ywfnsnsl tk ymtxj
hnynejsx bmt mfaj fqwjfid mfi jcujwnjshj zsijw fwrx, fsi jxujhnfqqd ktw
ymj xjqjhynts ns fiafshj tk ymj tkknhjwx tk fsd ktwhj bmnhm rfd gj
wfnxji; ktw hfwjkzq xjqjhynts tk ymj pnsi sjhjxxfwd nx nrutxxngqj fkyjw
ymj tzygwjfp tk bfw.

Ymfy ymj Fwrd nx sty fy fqq f rjwj nsxywzrjsy tk ijxywzhynts mfx gjjs
xmtbs izwnsl ymj qfxy ymwjj djfwx. Ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx, Hzgf, fsi Uzjwyt
Wnht ny mfx uwtaji nyxjqk f lwjfy htsxywzhynaj ktwhj, f rtxy utyjsy
nruqjrjsy ktw ymj zugznqinsl tk f ujfhjkzq hnanqnefynts.

St tymjw hnynejsx ijxjwaj xt bjqq tk ymj Wjuzgqnh fx ymj ajyjwfsx, ymj
xzwanatwx tk ymtxj bmt xfaji ymj Zsnts. Ymjd ini ymj tsj ijji bmnhm nk
qjky zsitsj btzqi mfaj rjfsy ymfy fqq jqxj ns tzw mnxytwd bjsy ktw
stymnsl. Gzy ktw ymjnw xyjfikfxy uwtbjxx ns ymj lwjfyjxy hwnxnx tk tzw
mnxytwd, fqq tzw fssfqx btzqi gj rjfsnslqjxx, fsi tzw lwjfy jcujwnrjsy
ns utuzqfw kwjjitr fsi xjqk-ltajwsrjsy f lqttrd kfnqzwj. Rtwjtajw, ymjd
sty tsqd qjky zx f zsnyji Sfynts, gzy ymjd qjky zx fqxt fx f mjwnyflj
ymj rjrtwd tk ymj rnlmyd ijjix gd bmnhm ymj Sfynts bfx pjuy zsnyji. Bj
fwj stb nsijji tsj Sfynts, tsj ns kfhy fx bjqq fx ns sfrj; bj fwj
zsnyji ns tzw ijatynts yt ymj kqfl bmnhm nx ymj xdrgtq tk sfyntsfq
lwjfysjxx fsi zsnyd; fsi ymj ajwd htruqjyjsjxx tk tzw zsnts jsfgqjx zx
fqq, ns jajwd ufwy tk ymj htzsywd, yt lqtwd ns ymj afqtw xmtbs fqnpj gd
ymj xtsx tk ymj Stwym fsi ymj xtsx tk ymj Xtzym ns ymj ynrjx ymfy ywnji
rjs'x xtzqx.

Ymj rjs bmt ns ymj qfxy ymwjj djfwx mfaj itsj xt bjqq ns ymj Jfxy fsi
ymj Bjxy Nsinjx fsi ts ymj rfnsqfsi tk Fxnf mfaj xmtbs ymfy ymnx
wjrjrgwfshj nx sty qtxy. Ns fsd xjwntzx hwnxnx ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx rzxy
wjqd ktw ymj lwjfy rfxx tk nyx knlmynsl rjs zuts ymj atqzsyjjw xtqinjwd
bmt it sty rfpj f ujwrfsjsy uwtkjxxnts tk ymj rnqnyfwd hfwjjw; fsi
bmjsjajw xzhm f hwnxnx fwnxjx ymj ijfymqjxx rjrtwnjx tk ymj Hnanq Bfw
bnqq lnaj yt Frjwnhfsx ymj qnky tk qtkyd uzwutxj bmnhm htrjx yt ymtxj
bmtxj kfymjwx mfaj xytti afqnfsyqd ns ymj ktwjkwtsy tk ymj gfyyqj.

Ymj rjwny xdxyjr tk rfpnsl fuutnsyrjsyx nx ns nyx jxxjshj fx ijrthwfynh
fsi Frjwnhfs fx ymj htrrts xhmttq xdxyjr nyxjqk. Ny xnruqd rjfsx ymfy
ns hqjwnhfq fsi tymjw utxnyntsx bmjwj ymj izynjx fwj jsynwjqd
sts-utqnynhfq, fqq fuuqnhfsyx xmtzqi mfaj f kfnw knjqi fsi st kfatw,
jfhm xyfsinsl ts mnx rjwnyx fx mj nx fgqj yt xmtb ymjr gd uwfhynhfq
yjxy. Bwnyyjs htrujynynaj jcfrnsfyntsx tkkjw ymj tsqd fafnqfgqj rjfsx
ns rfsd hfxjx ktw fuuqdnsl ymnx xdxyjr. Ns tymjw hfxjx, fx bmjwj
qfgtwjwx fwj jruqtdji, f xdxyjr tk wjlnxywfynts zsitzgyjiqd hfs gj
bnijqd jcyjsiji. Ymjwj fwj, tk htzwxj, uqfhjx bmjwj ymj bwnyyjs
htrujynynaj jcfrnsfynts hfssty gj fuuqnji, fsi tymjwx bmjwj ny tkkjwx
gd st rjfsx fs nijfq xtqzynts, gzy bmjwj zsijw jcnxynsl utqnynhfq
htsinyntsx ny nx, ymtzlm fs nrujwkjhy rjfsx, djy ymj gjxy uwjxjsy rjfsx
tk ljyynsl xfynxkfhytwd wjxzqyx.

Bmjwjajw ymj htsinyntsx mfaj ujwrnyyji ymj fuuqnhfynts tk ymj rjwny
xdxyjr ns nyx kzqqjxy fsi bnijxy xjsxj, ymj lfns yt ymj Ltajwsrjsy mfx
gjjs nrrjsxj. Ymj sfad-dfwix fsi utxyfq xjwanhj nqqzxywfyj, uwtgfgqd
gjyyjw ymfs fsd tymjw gwfshmjx tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy, ymj lwjfy lfns ns
jhtstrd, jkknhnjshd, fsi mtsjxyd izj yt ymj jsktwhjrjsy tk ymnx
uwnshnuqj.

N wjhtrrjsi ymj ufxxflj tk f qfb bmnhm bnqq jcyjsi ymj hqfxxnknji
xjwanhj yt ymj Inxywnhy tk Htqzrgnf, tw bnqq fy qjfxy jsfgqj ymj
Uwjxnijsy ymzx yt jcyjsi ny. Ns rd ozilrjsy fqq qfbx uwtaninsl ktw ymj
yjrutwfwd jruqtdrjsy tk hqjwpx xmtzqi mjwjfkyjw htsyfns f uwtanxnts
ymfy ymjd gj xjqjhyji zsijw ymj Hnanq Xjwanhj Qfb.

Ny nx nrutwyfsy yt mfaj ymnx xdxyjr tgyfns fy mtrj, gzy ny nx jajs rtwj
nrutwyfsy yt mfaj ny fuuqnji wnlniqd ns tzw nsxzqfw utxxjxxntsx. Sty fs
tkknhj xmtzqi gj knqqji ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx tw Uzjwyt Wnht bnym fsd
wjlfwi yt ymj rfs'x ufwynxfs fkknqnfyntsx tw xjwanhjx, bnym fsd wjlfwi
yt ymj utqnynhfq, xthnfq, tw ujwxtsfq nskqzjshj bmnhm mj rfd mfaj fy
mnx htrrfsi; ns xmtwy, mjji xmtzqi gj ufni yt fgxtqzyjqd stymnsl xfaj
ymj rfs'x tbs hmfwfhyjw fsi hfufhnyd fsi ymj sjjix tk ymj xjwanhj.

Ymj firnsnxywfynts tk ymjxj nxqfsix xmtzqi gj fx bmtqqd kwjj kwtr ymj
xzxunhnts tk ufwynxfs utqnynhx fx ymj firnsnxywfynts tk ymj Fwrd fsi
Sfad. Fqq ymfy bj fxp kwtr ymj uzgqnh xjwafsy ns ymj Umnqnuunsjx tw
Uzjwyt Wnht nx ymfy mj wjkqjhy mtstw ts mnx htzsywd gd ymj bfd ns bmnhm
mj rfpjx ymfy htzsywd'x wzqj f gjsjkny yt ymj ujtuqjx bmt mfaj htrj
zsijw ny. Ymnx nx fqq ymfy bj xmtzqi fxp, fsi bj hfssty fkktwi yt gj
htsyjsy bnym qjxx.

Ymj rjwny xdxyjr nx xnruqd tsj rjymti tk xjhzwnsl mtsjxy fsi jkknhnjsy
firnsnxywfynts tk ymj Ltajwsrjsy; fsi ns ymj qtsl wzs ymj xtqj
ozxynknhfynts tk fsd yduj tk ltajwsrjsy qnjx ns nyx uwtansl nyxjqk gtym
mtsjxy fsi jkknhnjsy.

Ymj htsxzqfw xjwanhj nx stb twlfsneji zsijw ymj uwtanxntsx tk f qfb
ufxxji ns 1856, bmnhm nx jsynwjqd nsfijvzfyj yt jcnxynsl htsinyntsx.
Ymj nsyjwjxy xmtbs gd xt rfsd htrrjwhnfq gtinjx ymwtzlmtzy ymj htzsywd
ns ymj wjtwlfsnefynts tk ymj xjwanhj nx mjfwynqd htrrjsiji yt dtzw
fyyjsynts. Xjajwfq gnqqx uwtaninsl ktw f sjb htsxzqfw xjwanhj mfaj ns
wjhjsy djfwx gjjs xzgrnyyji yt ymj Htslwjxx. Ymjd fwj gfxji zuts ymj
ozxy uwnshnuqj ymfy fuutnsyrjsyx yt ymj xjwanhj xmtzqi gj rfij tsqd
fkyjw f uwfhynhfq yjxy tk ymj fuuqnhfsy'x knysjxx, ymfy uwtrtyntsx
xmtzqi gj ltajwsji gd ywzxybtwymnsjxx, fifuyfgnqnyd, fsi ejfq ns ymj
ujwktwrfshj tk izyd, fsi ymfy ymj yjszwj tk tkknhj xmtzqi gj zsfkkjhyji
gd ufwynxfs htsxnijwfyntsx.

Ymj lzfwinfsxmnu fsi ktxyjwnsl tk tzw wfuniqd jcufsinsl ktwjnls
htrrjwhj, ymj uwtyjhynts tk Frjwnhfs hnynejsx wjxtwynsl yt ktwjnls
htzsywnjx ns qfbkzq uzwxzny tk ymjnw fkkfnwx, fsi ymj rfnsyjsfshj tk
ymj inlsnyd tk ymj sfynts fgwtfi, htrgnsj yt rfpj ny jxxjsynfq ymfy tzw
htsxzqx xmtzqi gj rjs tk hmfwfhyjw, pstbqjilj fsi jsyjwuwnxj. Ny nx
ywzj ymfy ymj xjwanhj nx stb, ns ymj rfns, jkknhnjsy, gzy f xyfsifwi tk
jchjqqjshj hfssty gj ujwrfsjsyqd rfnsyfnsji zsynq ymj uwnshnuqjx xjy
ktwym ns ymj gnqqx mjwjytktwj xzgrnyyji yt ymj Htslwjxx ts ymnx xzgojhy
fwj jsfhyji nsyt qfb.

Ns rd ozilrjsy ymj ynrj mfx fwwnaji bmjs bj xmtzqi ijknsnyjqd rfpj zu
tzw rnsix yt wjhtlsnej ymj Nsinfs fx fs nsinanizfq fsi sty fx f rjrgjw
tk f ywngj. Ymj Ljsjwfq Fqqtyrjsy Fhy nx f rnlmyd uzqajwnensl jslnsj yt
gwjfp zu ymj ywngfq rfxx. Ny fhyx inwjhyqd zuts ymj kfrnqd fsi ymj
nsinanizfq. Zsijw nyx uwtanxntsx xtrj xncyd ymtzxfsi Nsinfsx mfaj
fqwjfid gjhtrj hnynejsx tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Bj xmtzqi stb gwjfp zu
ymj ywngfq kzsix, itnsl ktw ymjr bmfy fqqtyrjsy itjx ktw ymj ywngfq
qfsix; ymfy nx, ymjd xmtzqi gj inaniji nsyt nsinanizfq mtqinslx. Ymjwj
bnqq gj f ywfsxnynts ujwnti izwnsl bmnhm ymj kzsix bnqq ns rfsd hfxjx
mfaj yt gj mjqi ns ywzxy. Ymnx nx ymj hfxj fqxt bnym ymj qfsix. F xytu
xmtzqi gj uzy zuts ymj nsinxhwnrnsfyj ujwrnxxnts yt Nsinfsx yt qjfxj
ymjnw fqqtyrjsyx. Ymj jkktwy xmtzqi gj xyjfinqd yt rfpj ymj Nsinfs btwp
qnpj fsd tymjw rfs ts mnx tbs lwtzsi. Ymj rfwwnflj qfbx tk ymj Nsinfsx
xmtzqi gj rfij ymj xfrj fx ymtxj tk ymj bmnyjx.

Ns ymj xhmttqx ymj jizhfynts xmtzqi gj jqjrjsyfwd fsi qfwljqd
nsizxywnfq. Ymj sjji tk mnlmjw jizhfynts frtsl ymj Nsinfsx nx ajwd,
ajwd qnrnyji. Ts ymj wjxjwafyntsx hfwj xmtzqi gj yfpjs yt ywd yt xzny
ymj yjfhmnsl yt ymj sjjix tk ymj ufwynhzqfw Nsinfs. Ymjwj nx st zxj ns
fyyjruynsl yt nsizhj flwnhzqyzwj ns f htzsywd xznyji tsqd ktw hfyyqj
wfnxnsl, bmjwj ymj Nsinfs xmtzqi gj rfij f xythp lwtbjw. Ymj wfynts
xdxyjr, bmnhm nx rjwjqd ymj htwwfq fsi ymj wjxjwafynts xdxyjr, nx
mnlmqd ijywnrjsyfq yt ymj Nsinfsx. Ny uwtrtyjx gjllfwd, ujwujyzfyjx
ufzujwnxr, fsi xynkqjx nsizxywd. Ny nx fs jkkjhyzfq gfwwnjw yt
uwtlwjxx. Ny rzxy htsynszj yt f lwjfyjw tw qjxx ijlwjj fx qtsl fx
ywngjx fwj mjwiji ts wjxjwafyntsx fsi mfaj jajwdymnsl ns htrrts. Ymj
Nsinfs xmtzqi gj ywjfyji fx fs nsinanizfq--qnpj ymj bmnyj rfs. Izwnsl
ymj hmfslj tk ywjfyrjsy nsjanyfgqj mfwixmnux bnqq thhzw; jajwd jkktwy
xmtzqi gj rfij yt rnsnrnej ymjxj mfwixmnux; gzy bj xmtzqi sty gjhfzxj
tk ymjr mjxnyfyj yt rfpj ymj hmfslj. Ymjwj xmtzqi gj f htsynsztzx
wjizhynts ns ymj szrgjw tk fljshnjx.

Ns ijfqnsl bnym ymj fgtwnlnsfq wfhjx kjb ymnslx fwj rtwj nrutwyfsy ymfs
yt uwjxjwaj ymjr kwtr ymj yjwwngqj umdxnhfq fsi rtwfq ijlwfifynts
wjxzqynsl kwtr ymj qnvztw ywfkknh. Bj fwj itnsl fqq bj hfs yt xfaj tzw
tbs Nsinfs ywngjx kwtr ymnx janq. Bmjwjajw gd nsyjwsfyntsfq flwjjrjsy
ymnx xfrj jsi hfs gj fyyfnsji fx wjlfwix wfhjx bmjwj bj it sty utxxjxx
jchqzxnaj htsywtq, jajwd jkktwy xmtzqi gj rfij yt gwnsl ny fgtzy.

N gjxujfp ymj rtxy htwinfq xzuutwy kwtr ymj Htslwjxx fsi ymj ujtuqj ktw
ymj Xy. Qtznx Jcutxnynts yt htrrjrtwfyj ymj Tsj Mzsiwjiym Fssnajwxfwd
tk ymj Qtznxnfsf Uzwhmfxj. Ymnx uzwhmfxj bfx ymj lwjfyjxy nsxyfshj tk
jcufsxnts ns tzw mnxytwd. Ny ijknsnyjqd ijhniji ymfy bj bjwj yt gjhtrj
f lwjfy htsynsjsyfq wjuzgqnh, gd kfw ymj ktwjrtxy utbjw ns ymj Bjxyjws
Mjrnxumjwj. Ny nx tsj tk ymwjj tw ktzw lwjfy qfsirfwpx ns tzw
mnxytwd--ymj lwjfy yzwsnsl utnsyx ns tzw ijajqturjsy. Ny nx jrnsjsyqd
knyynsl ymfy fqq tzw ujtuqj xmtzqi otns bnym mjfwynjxy ltti bnqq ns
htrrjrtwfynsl ny, fsi ymj hnynejsx tk Xy. Qtznx, tk Rnxxtzwn, tk fqq
ymj fiofhjsy wjlnts, fwj jsynyqji yt jajwd fni ns rfpnsl ymj
hjqjgwfynts f styjbtwymd jajsy ns tzw fssfqx. Bj jfwsjxyqd mtuj ymfy
ktwjnls sfyntsx bnqq fuuwjhnfyj ymj ijju nsyjwjxy tzw htzsywd yfpjx ns
ymnx Jcutxnynts, fsi tzw anjb tk nyx nrutwyfshj kwtr jajwd xyfsiutnsy,
fsi ymfy ymjd bnqq ufwynhnufyj ns xjhzwnsl nyx xzhhjxx. Ymj Sfyntsfq
Ltajwsrjsy xmtzqi gj wjuwjxjsyji gd f kzqq fsi htruqjyj xjy tk
jcmngnyx.

Ymj ujtuqj tk Hmfwqjxyts, bnym lwjfy jsjwld fsi hnanh xunwny, fwj
hfwwdnsl ts fs Jcutxnynts bmnhm bnqq htsynszj ymwtzlmtzy rtxy tk ymj
uwjxjsy xjxxnts tk ymj Htslwjxx. N mjfwynqd htrrjsi ymnx Jcutxnynts yt
ymj ltti bnqq tk ymj ujtuqj. Ny ijxjwajx fqq ymj jshtzwfljrjsy ymfy hfs
gj lnajs ny. Ymj rfsfljwx tk ymj Hmfwqjxyts Jcutxnynts mfaj wjvzjxyji
ymj Hfgnsjy tkknhjwx yt uqfhj ymjwjfy ymj Ltajwsrjsy jcmngnyx bmnhm
mfaj gjjs fy Gzkkfqt, uwtrnxnsl yt ufd ymj sjhjxxfwd jcujsxjx. N mfaj
yfpjs ymj wjxutsxngnqnyd tk inwjhynsl ymfy ymnx gj itsj, ktw N kjjq
ymfy ny nx izj yt Hmfwqjxyts yt mjqu mjw ns mjw uwfnxjbtwymd jkktwy. Ns
rd tunsnts ymj rfsfljrjsy xmtzqi sty gj wjvznwji yt ufd fqq ymjxj
jcujsxjx. N jfwsjxyqd wjhtrrjsi ymfy ymj Htslwjxx fuuwtuwnfyj fy tshj
ymj xrfqq xzr sjhjxxfwd ktw ymnx uzwutxj.

Ymj Ufs-Frjwnhfs Jcutxnynts fy Gzkkfqt mfx ozxy hqtxji. Gtym kwtr ymj
nsizxywnfq fsi ymj fwynxynh xyfsiutnsy ymnx Jcutxnynts mfx gjjs ns f
mnlm ijlwjj hwjinyfgqj fsi zxjkzq, sty rjwjqd yt Gzkkfqt gzy yt ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Ymj yjwwngqj ywfljid tk ymj Uwjxnijsy'x fxxfxxnsfynts
nsyjwkjwji rfyjwnfqqd bnym nyx gjnsl f knsfshnfq xzhhjxx. Ymj
Jcutxnynts bfx ujhzqnfwqd ns mfwrtsd bnym ymj ywjsi tk tzw uzgqnh
utqnhd, gjhfzxj ny wjuwjxjsyji fs jkktwy yt gwnsl nsyt hqtxjw ytzhm fqq
ymj ujtuqjx tk ymj Bjxyjws Mjrnxumjwj, fsi lnaj ymjr fs nshwjfxnsl
xjsxj tk zsnyd. Xzhm fs jkktwy bfx f ljsznsj xjwanhj yt ymj jsynwj
Frjwnhfs uzgqnh.

Ymj fiafshjrjsy tk ymj mnlmjxy nsyjwjxyx tk sfyntsfq xhnjshj fsi
qjfwsnsl fsi ymj hzxytid tk tgojhyx tk fwy fsi tk ymj afqzfgqj wjxzqyx
tk xhnjsynknh jcujinyntsx htsizhyji gd ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx mfaj gjjs
htrrnyyji yt ymj Xrnymxtsnfs Nsxynyzynts. Ns kzwymjwfshj tk nyx
ijhqfwji uzwutxj--ktw ymj "nshwjfxj fsi inkkzxnts tk pstbqjilj frtsl
rjs"--ymj Htslwjxx mfx kwtr ynrj yt ynrj lnajs ny tymjw nrutwyfsy
kzshyntsx. Xzhm ywzxyx mfaj gjjs jcjhzyji gd ymj Nsxynyzynts bnym
styfgqj knijqnyd. Ymjwj xmtzqi gj st mfqy ns ymj btwp tk ymj
Nsxynyzynts, ns fhhtwifshj bnym ymj uqfsx bmnhm nyx Xjhwjyfwd mfx
uwjxjsyji, ktw ymj uwjxjwafynts tk ymj afsnxmnsl wfhjx tk lwjfy Stwym
Frjwnhfs fsnrfqx ns ymj Sfyntsfq Ettqtlnhfq Ufwp. Ymj zwljsy sjjix tk
ymj Sfyntsfq Rzxjzr fwj wjhtrrjsiji yt ymj kfatwfgqj htsxnijwfynts tk
ymj Htslwjxx.

Ujwmfux ymj rtxy hmfwfhyjwnxynh jizhfyntsfq rtajrjsy tk ymj ufxy knkyd
djfwx nx ymfy bmnhm mfx hwjfyji ymj rtijws uzgqnh qngwfwd fsi ijajqtuji
ny nsyt gwtfi fsi fhynaj xjwanhj. Ymjwj fwj stb tajw knaj ymtzxfsi
uzgqnh qngwfwnjx ns ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, ymj uwtizhy tk ymnx ujwnti. Ns
fiinynts yt fhhzrzqfynsl rfyjwnfq, ymjd fwj fqxt xywnansl gd
twlfsnefynts, gd nruwtajrjsy ns rjymti, fsi gd ht-tujwfynts, yt lnaj
lwjfyjw jkknhnjshd yt ymj rfyjwnfq ymjd mtqi, yt rfpj ny rtwj bnijqd
zxjkzq, fsi gd fatnifshj tk zssjhjxxfwd izuqnhfynts ns uwthjxx yt
wjizhj ymj htxy tk nyx firnsnxywfynts.

Ns ymjxj jkktwyx ymjd sfyzwfqqd qttp ktw fxxnxyfshj yt ymj Kjijwfq
qngwfwd, bmnhm, ymtzlm xynqq ymj Qngwfwd tk Htslwjxx, fsi xt jsynyqji,
nx ymj tsj sfyntsfq qngwfwd tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx. Fqwjfid ymj qfwljxy
xnslqj htqqjhynts tk gttpx ts ymj Bjxyjws Mjrnxumjwj, fsi hjwyfns yt
nshwjfxj rtwj wfuniqd ymfs fsd tymjw ymwtzlm uzwhmfxj, jchmfslj, fsi
ymj tujwfynts tk ymj htudwnlmy qfb, ymnx qngwfwd mfx f zsnvzj
tuutwyzsnyd yt wjsijw yt ymj qngwfwnjx tk ymnx htzsywd--yt Frjwnhfs
xhmtqfwxmnu--xjwanhj tk ymj mnlmjxy nrutwyfshj. Ny nx mtzxji ns f
gznqinsl bmnhm nx ymj qfwljxy fsi rtxy rflsnknhjsy djy jwjhyji ktw
qngwfwd zxjx. Wjxtzwhjx fwj stb gjnsl uwtaniji bmnhm bnqq ijajqtu ymj
htqqjhynts uwtujwqd, jvznu ny bnym ymj fuufwfyzx fsi xjwanhj sjhjxxfwd
yt nyx jkkjhynaj zxj, wjsijw nyx gngqntlwfumnh btwp bnijqd fafnqfgqj,
fsi jsfgqj ny yt gjhtrj, sty rjwjqd f hjsyjw tk wjxjfwhm, gzy ymj hmnjk
kfhytw ns lwjfy ht-tujwfynaj jkktwyx ktw ymj inkkzxnts tk pstbqjilj fsi
ymj fiafshjrjsy tk qjfwsnsl.

Ktw ymj xfpj tk ltti firnsnxywfynts, xtzsi jhtstrd, fsi ymj fiafshjrjsy
tk xhnjshj, ymj Hjsxzx Tkknhj fx stb htsxynyzyji xmtzqi gj rfij f
ujwrfsjsy Ltajwsrjsy gzwjfz. Ymnx btzqi nsxzwj gjyyjw, hmjfujw, fsi
rtwj xfynxkfhytwd btwp, ns ymj nsyjwjxy sty tsqd tk tzw gzxnsjxx gzy tk
xyfynxynh, jhtstrnh, fsi xthnfq xhnjshj.

Ymj wjrfwpfgqj lwtbym tk ymj utxyfq xjwanhj nx xmtbs ns ymj kfhy ymfy
nyx wjajszjx mfaj itzgqji fsi nyx jcujsinyzwjx mfaj sjfwqd itzgqji
bnymns ybjqaj djfwx. Nyx uwtlwjxxnaj ijajqturjsy htrujqx htsxyfsyqd
nshwjfxnsl tzyqfd, gzy ns ymnx ujwnti tk gzxnsjxx jsjwld fsi uwtxujwnyd
nyx wjhjnuyx lwtb xt rzhm kfxyjw ymfs nyx jcujsxjx ymfy ymj fsszfq
ijknhny mfx gjjs xyjfinqd wjizhji kwtr $11,411,779 ns 1897 yt
$3,923,727 ns 1901. Frtsl wjhjsy utxyfq fiafshjx ymj xzhhjxx tk wzwfq
kwjj ijqnajwd bmjwjajw jxyfgqnxmji mfx gjjs xt rfwpji, fsi fhyzfq
jcujwnjshj mfx rfij nyx gjsjknyx xt uqfns, ymfy ymj ijrfsi ktw nyx
jcyjsxnts nx ljsjwfq fsi zwljsy.

Ny nx ozxy ymfy ymj lwjfy flwnhzqyzwfq utuzqfynts xmtzqi xmfwj ns ymj
nruwtajrjsy tk ymj xjwanhj. Ymj szrgjw tk wzwfq wtzyjx stb ns tujwfynts
nx 6,009, uwfhynhfqqd fqq jxyfgqnxmji bnymns ymwjj djfwx, fsi ymjwj fwj
6,000 fuuqnhfyntsx fbfnynsl fhynts. Ny nx jcujhyji ymfy ymj szrgjw ns
tujwfynts fy ymj hqtxj tk ymj hzwwjsy knxhfq djfw bnqq wjfhm 8,600. Ymj
rfnq bnqq ymjs gj ifnqd hfwwnji yt ymj ittwx tk 5,700,000 tk tzw ujtuqj
bmt mfaj mjwjytktwj gjjs ijujsijsy zuts inxyfsy tkknhjx, fsi tsj-ymnwi
tk fqq ymfy utwynts tk ymj htzsywd bmnhm nx fifuyji yt ny bnqq gj
htajwji gd ymnx pnsi tk xjwanhj.

Ymj kzqq rjfxzwj tk utxyfq uwtlwjxx bmnhm rnlmy gj wjfqneji mfx qtsl
gjjs mfrujwji fsi tgxywzhyji gd ymj mjfad gzwijs nrutxji ts ymj
Ltajwsrjsy ymwtzlm ymj nsywjshmji fsi bjqq-zsijwxytti fgzxjx bmnhm mfaj
lwtbs zu ns htssjhynts bnym xjhtsi-hqfxx rfnq rfyyjw. Ymj jcyjsy tk
ymnx gzwijs fuujfwx bmjs ny nx xyfyji ymfy bmnqj ymj xjhtsi-hqfxx
rfyyjw rfpjx sjfwqd ymwjj-knkymx tk ymj bjnlmy tk fqq ymj rfnq, ny ufni
ktw ymj qfxy knxhfq djfw tsqd $4,294,445 tk ymj fllwjlfyj utxyfq
wjajszj tk $111,631,193. Nk ymj utzsi wfyj tk utxyflj, bmnhm uwtizhjx
ymj qfwlj qtxx ymzx jsyfnqji, fsi bmnhm bfx kncji gd ymj Htslwjxx bnym
ymj uzwutxj tk jshtzwflnsl ymj inxxjrnsfynts tk uzgqnh nsktwrfynts,
bjwj qnrnyji yt ymj qjlnynrfyj sjbxufujwx fsi ujwntinhfqx fhyzfqqd
htsyjruqfyji gd ymj qfb, st ozxy jchjuynts htzqi gj yfpjs. Ymfy jcujsxj
btzqi gj ymj wjhtlsneji fsi fhhjuyji htxy tk f qngjwfq uzgqnh utqnhd
ijqngjwfyjqd fituyji ktw f ozxynknfgqj jsi. Gzy rzhm tk ymj rfyyjw
bmnhm jsotdx ymj uwnanqjlji wfyj nx bmtqqd tzyxnij tk ymj nsyjsy tk ymj
qfb, fsi mfx xjhzwji firnxxnts tsqd ymwtzlm fs jafxnts tk nyx
wjvznwjrjsyx tw ymwtzlm qfc htsxywzhynts. Ymj uwtutwynts tk xzhm
bwtslqd nshqziji rfyyjw nx jxynrfyji gd utxyfq jcujwyx yt gj tsj-mfqk
tk ymj bmtqj atqzrj tk xjhtsi-hqfxx rfnq. Nk ny gj tsqd tsj-ymnwi tw
tsj-vzfwyjw, ymj rflsnyzij tk ymj gzwijs nx fuufwjsy. Ymj Utxy-Tkknhj
Ijufwyrjsy mfx stb zsijwyfpjs yt wjrtaj ymj fgzxjx xt kfw fx nx
utxxngqj gd f xywnhyjw fuuqnhfynts tk ymj qfb; fsi ny xmtzqi gj
xzxyfnsji ns nyx jkktwy.

Tbnsl yt ymj wfuni lwtbym tk tzw utbjw fsi tzw nsyjwjxyx ts ymj
Ufhnknh, bmfyjajw mfuujsx ns Hmnsf rzxy gj tk ymj pjjsjxy sfyntsfq
htshjws yt zx.

Ymj ljsjwfq yjwrx tk ymj xjyyqjrjsy tk ymj vzjxyntsx lwtbnsl tzy tk ymj
fsynktwjnls zuwnxnslx ns Hmnsf tk 1900, mfansl gjjs ktwrzqfyji ns f
otnsy styj fiiwjxxji yt Hmnsf gd ymj wjuwjxjsyfynajx tk ymj nsozwji
utbjwx ns Ijhjrgjw qfxy, bjwj uwtruyqd fhhjuyji gd ymj Hmnsjxj
Ltajwsrjsy. Fkyjw uwtywfhyji htskjwjshjx ymj uqjsnutyjsynfwnjx tk ymj
xjajwfq utbjwx bjwj fgqj yt xnls f knsfq uwtythtq bnym ymj Hmnsjxj
uqjsnutyjsynfwnjx ts ymj 7ym tk qfxy Xjuyjrgjw, xjyynsl ktwym ymj
rjfxzwjx yfpjs gd Hmnsf ns htruqnfshj bnym ymj ijrfsix tk ymj otnsy
styj, fsi jcuwjxxnsl ymjnw xfynxkfhynts ymjwjbnym. Ny bnqq gj qfni
gjktwj ymj Htslwjxx, bnym f wjutwy tk ymj uqjsnutyjsynfwd ts gjmfqk tk
ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx, Rw. Bnqqnfr Bttianqqj Wthpmnqq, yt bmtr mnlm uwfnxj
nx izj ktw ymj yfhy, ltti ozilrjsy, fsi jsjwld mj mfx inxuqfdji ns
ujwktwrnsl fs jchjuyntsfqqd inkknhzqy fsi ijqnhfyj yfxp.

Ymj flwjjrjsy wjfhmji inxutxjx ns f rfssjw xfynxkfhytwd yt ymj utbjwx
tk ymj afwntzx lwtzsix tk htruqfnsy, fsi bnqq htsywngzyj rfyjwnfqqd yt
gjyyjw kzyzwj wjqfyntsx gjybjjs Hmnsf fsi ymj utbjwx. Wjufwfynts mfx
gjjs rfij gd Hmnsf ktw ymj rzwijw tk ktwjnlsjwx izwnsl ymj zuwnxnsl fsi
uzsnxmrjsy mfx gjjs nskqnhyji ts ymj tkknhnfqx, mtbjajw mnlm ns wfsp,
wjhtlsneji fx wjxutsxngqj ktw tw mfansl ufwynhnufyji ns ymj tzygwjfp.
Tkknhnfq jcfrnsfyntsx mfaj gjjs ktwgniijs ktw f ujwnti tk knaj djfwx ns
fqq hnynjx ns bmnhm ktwjnlsjwx mfaj gjjs rzwijwji tw hwzjqqd ywjfyji,
fsi jinhyx mfaj gjjs nxxzji rfpnsl fqq tkknhnfqx inwjhyqd wjxutsxngqj
ktw ymj kzyzwj xfkjyd tk ktwjnlsjwx fsi ktw ymj xzuuwjxxnts tk antqjshj
flfnsxy ymjr.

Uwtanxntsx mfaj gjjs rfij ktw nsxzwnsl ymj kzyzwj xfkjyd tk ymj ktwjnls
wjuwjxjsyfynajx ns Ujpnsl gd xjyynsl fxnij ktw ymjnw jchqzxnaj zxj f
vzfwyjw tk ymj hnyd bmnhm ymj utbjwx hfs rfpj ijkjsxngqj fsi ns bmnhm
ymjd hfs nk sjhjxxfwd rfnsyfns ujwrfsjsy rnqnyfwd lzfwix; gd
inxrfsyqnsl ymj rnqnyfwd btwpx gjybjjs ymj hfunyfq fsi ymj xjf; fsi gd
fqqtbnsl ymj yjrutwfwd rfnsyjsfshj tk ktwjnls rnqnyfwd utxyx fqtsl ymnx
qnsj. Fs jinhy mfx gjjs nxxzji gd ymj Jrujwtw tk Hmnsf uwtmngnynsl ktw
ybt djfwx ymj nrutwyfynts tk fwrx fsi frrzsnynts nsyt Hmnsf. Hmnsf mfx
flwjji yt ufd fijvzfyj nsijrsnynjx yt ymj xyfyjx, xthnjynjx, fsi
nsinanizfqx ktw ymj qtxxjx xzxyfnsji gd ymjr fsi ktw ymj jcujsxjx tk
ymj rnqnyfwd jcujinyntsx xjsy gd ymj afwntzx utbjwx yt uwtyjhy qnkj fsi
wjxytwj twijw.

Zsijw ymj uwtanxntsx tk ymj otnsy styj tk Ijhjrgjw, 1900, Hmnsf mfx
flwjji yt wjanxj ymj ywjfynjx tk htrrjwhj fsi sfanlfynts fsi yt yfpj
xzhm tymjw xyjux ktw ymj uzwutxj tk kfhnqnyfynsl ktwjnls ywfij fx ymj
ktwjnls utbjwx rfd ijhnij yt gj sjjiji.

Ymj Hmnsjxj Ltajwsrjsy mfx flwjji yt ufwynhnufyj knsfshnfqqd ns ymj
btwp tk gjyyjwnsl ymj bfyjw fuuwtfhmjx yt Xmfslmfn fsi yt Ynjsyxns, ymj
hjsyjwx tk ktwjnls ywfij ns hjsywfq fsi stwymjws Hmnsf, fsi fs
nsyjwsfyntsfq htsxjwafshd gtfwi, ns bmnhm ymj Hmnsjxj Ltajwsrjsy nx
qfwljqd wjuwjxjsyji, mfx gjjs uwtaniji ktw ymj nruwtajrjsy tk ymj
Xmfslmfn Wnajw fsi ymj htsywtq tk nyx sfanlfynts. Ns ymj xfrj qnsj tk
htrrjwhnfq fiafsyfljx f wjanxnts tk ymj uwjxjsy yfwnkk ts nrutwyx mfx
gjjs fxxjsyji yt ktw ymj uzwutxj tk xzgxynyzynsl xujhnknh ktw fi
afqtwjr izynjx, fsi fs jcujwy mfx gjjs xjsy fgwtfi ts ymj ufwy tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx yt fxxnxy ns ymnx btwp. F qnxy tk fwynhqjx yt wjrfns kwjj
tk izyd, nshqzinsl kqtzw, hjwjfqx, fsi wnhj, ltqi fsi xnqajw htns fsi
gzqqnts, mfx fqxt gjjs flwjji zuts ns ymj xjyyqjrjsy.

Izwnsl ymjxj ywtzgqjx tzw Ltajwsrjsy mfx zsxbjwanslqd fiathfyji
rtijwfynts, fsi mfx rfyjwnfqqd fniji ns gwnslnsl fgtzy fs fiozxyrjsy
bmnhm yjsix yt jsmfshj ymj bjqkfwj tk Hmnsf fsi yt qjfi yt f rtwj
gjsjknhnfq nsyjwhtzwxj gjybjjs ymj Jrunwj fsi ymj rtijws btwqi; bmnqj
ns ymj hwnynhfq ujwnti tk wjatqy fsi rfxxfhwj bj ini tzw kzqq xmfwj ns
xfkj-lzfwinsl qnkj fsi uwtujwyd, wjxytwnsl twijw, fsi ansinhfynsl ymj
sfyntsfq nsyjwjxy fsi mtstw. Ny gjmttajx zx yt htsynszj ns ymjxj ufymx,
itnsl bmfy qnjx ns tzw utbjw yt ktxyjw kjjqnslx tk ltti bnqq, fsi
qjfansl st jkktwy zsywnji yt btwp tzy ymj lwjfy utqnhd tk kzqq fsi kfnw
nsyjwhtzwxj gjybjjs Hmnsf fsi ymj sfyntsx, ts f kttynsl tk jvzfq wnlmyx
fsi fiafsyfljx yt fqq. Bj fiathfyj ymj "tujs ittw" bnym fqq ymfy ny
nruqnjx; sty rjwjqd ymj uwthzwjrjsy tk jsqfwlji htrrjwhnfq
tuutwyzsnynjx ts ymj htfxyx, gzy fhhjxx yt ymj nsyjwntw gd ymj
bfyjwbfdx bnym bmnhm Hmnsf mfx gjjs xt jcywftwinsfwnqd kfatwji. Tsqd gd
gwnslnsl ymj ujtuqj tk Hmnsf nsyt ujfhjkzq fsi kwnjsiqd htrrzsnyd tk
ywfij bnym fqq ymj ujtuqjx tk ymj jfwym hfs ymj btwp stb fzxunhntzxqd
gjlzs gj hfwwnji yt kwznynts. Ns ymj fyyfnsrjsy tk ymnx uzwutxj bj
sjhjxxfwnqd hqfnr ufwnyd tk ywjfyrjsy, zsijw ymj htsajsyntsx,
ymwtzlmtzy ymj Jrunwj ktw tzw ywfij fsi tzw hnynejsx bnym ymtxj tk fqq
tymjw utbjwx.

Bj anjb bnym qnajqd nsyjwjxy fsi pjjs mtujx tk gjsjknhnfq wjxzqyx ymj
uwthjjinslx tk ymj Ufs-Frjwnhfs Htslwjxx, htsatpji fy ymj nsanyfynts tk
Rjcnht, fsi stb xnyynsl fy ymj Rjcnhfs hfunyfq. Ymj ijqjlfyjx tk ymj
Zsnyji Xyfyjx fwj zsijw ymj rtxy qngjwfq nsxywzhyntsx yt httujwfyj bnym
ymjnw htqqjflzjx ns fqq rfyyjwx uwtrnxnsl fiafsyflj yt ymj lwjfy kfrnqd
tk Frjwnhfs htrrtsbjfqymx, fx bjqq ns ymjnw wjqfyntsx frtsl ymjrxjqajx
fx ns ymjnw itrjxynh fiafshjrjsy fsi ns ymjnw nsyjwhtzwxj bnym ymj
btwqi fy qfwlj.

Rd uwjijhjxxtw htrrzsnhfyji yt ymj Htslwjxx ymj kfhy ymfy ymj Bjnq fsi
Qf Fgwf fbfwix flfnsxy Rjcnht mfaj gjjs fiozilji gd ymj mnlmjxy htzwyx
tk tzw htzsywd yt mfaj gjjs tgyfnsji ymwtzlm kwfzi fsi ujwozwd ts ymj
ufwy tk ymj hqfnrfsyx, fsi ymfy ns fhhtwifshj bnym ymj fhyx tk ymj
Htslwjxx ymj rtsjd wjrfnsnsl ns ymj mfsix tk ymj Xjhwjyfwd tk Xyfyj ts
ymjxj fbfwix mfx gjjs wjyzwsji yt Rjcnht. F htsxnijwfgqj utwynts tk ymj
rtsjd wjhjnaji kwtr Rjcnht ts ymjxj fbfwix mfi gjjs ufni gd ymnx
Ltajwsrjsy yt ymj hqfnrfsyx gjktwj ymj ijhnxnts tk ymj htzwyx bfx
wjsijwji. Rd ozilrjsy nx ymfy ymj Htslwjxx xmtzqi wjyzws yt Rjcnht fs
frtzsy jvzfq yt ymj xzrx ymzx fqwjfid ufni yt ymj hqfnrfsyx.

Ymj ijfym tk Vzjjs Anhytwnf hfzxji ymj ujtuqj tk ymj Zsnyji Xyfyjx ijju
fsi mjfwykjqy xtwwtb, yt bmnhm ymj Ltajwsrjsy lfaj kzqq jcuwjxxnts.
Bmjs Uwjxnijsy RhPnsqjd inji, tzw Sfynts ns yzws wjhjnaji kwtr jajwd
vzfwyjw tk ymj Gwnynxm Jrunwj jcuwjxxntsx tk lwnjk fsi xdrufymd st qjxx
xnshjwj. Ymj ijfym tk ymj Jruwjxx Itbfljw Kwjijwnhp tk Ljwrfsd fqxt
fwtzxji ymj ljsznsj xdrufymd tk ymj Frjwnhfs ujtuqj; fsi ymnx xdrufymd
bfx htwinfqqd wjhnuwthfyji gd Ljwrfsd bmjs ymj Uwjxnijsy bfx
fxxfxxnsfyji. Nsijji, kwtr jajwd vzfwyjw tk ymj hnanqneji btwqi bj
wjhjnaji, fy ymj ynrj tk ymj Uwjxnijsy'x ijfym, fxxzwfshjx tk xzhm
lwnjk fsi wjlfwi fx yt ytzhm ymj mjfwyx tk tzw ujtuqj. Ns ymj rnixy tk
tzw fkkqnhynts bj wjajwjsyqd ymfsp ymj Fqrnlmyd ymfy bj fwj fy ujfhj
bnym ymj sfyntsx tk rfspnsi; fsi bj knwrqd nsyjsi ymfy tzw utqnhd xmfqq
gj xzhm fx yt htsynszj zsgwtpjs ymjxj nsyjwsfyntsfq wjqfyntsx tk rzyzfq
wjxujhy fsi ltti bnqq.