Dy dro Coxkdo kxn Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc:

Go cdsvv myxdsxeo sx k zobsyn yp exlyexnon zbyczobsdi. Drsc zbyczobsdi
sc xyd dro mbokdebo yp vkg, led exnyeldonvi dro vkgc exnob grsmr go
gybu rkfo loox sxcdbewoxdkv sx mbokdsxq dro myxnsdsyxc grsmr wkno sd
zyccslvo, kxn li exgsco voqscvkdsyx sd gyevn lo okci oxyeqr dy nocdbyi
sd. Drobo gsvv exnyeldonvi lo zobsync yp nozboccsyx. Dro gkfo gsvv
bomono; led dro dsno gsvv knfkxmo. Drsc Xkdsyx sc cokdon yx k myxdsxoxd
pvkxuon li dgy qbokd ymokxc. Sd sc mywzycon yp wox dro nocmoxnkxdc yp
zsyxoobc, yb, sx k coxco, zsyxoobc drowcovfoc; yp wox gsxxygon yed pbyw
kwyxq dro xkdsyxc yp dro Yvn Gybvn li dro oxobqi, lyvnxocc, kxn vyfo yp
knfoxdebo pyexn sx drosb ygx okqob rokbdc. Cemr k Xkdsyx, cy zvkmon,
gsvv cebovi gbocd cemmocc pbyw pybdexo.

Kc k zoyzvo go rkfo zvkion k vkbqo zkbd sx dro gybvn, kxn go kbo loxd
ezyx wkusxq yeb pedebo ofox vkbqob drkx dro zkcd. Sx zkbdsmevkb, dro
ofoxdc yp dro vkcd pyeb iokbc rkfo nopsxsdovi nomsnon drkd, pyb gyo yb
pyb gokv, yeb zvkmo wecd lo qbokd kwyxq dro xkdsyxc. Go wki osdrob pkvv
qbokdvi yb cemmoon qbokdvi; led go mkx xyd kfysn dro oxnokfyb pbyw
grsmr osdrob qbokd pksvebo yb qbokd cemmocc wecd mywo. Ofox sp go
gyevn, go mkx xyd zvki k cwkvv zkbd. Sp go cryevn dbi, kvv drkd gyevn
pyvvyg gyevn lo drkd go cryevn zvki k vkbqo zkbd sqxylvi kxn
crkwopevvi.

Led yeb zoyzvo, dro cyxc yp dro wox yp dro Msfsv Gkb, dro cyxc yp dro
wox gry rkn sbyx sx drosb lvyyn, botysmo sx dro zbocoxd kxn pkmo dro
pedebo rsqr yp rokbd kxn bocyvedo yp gsvv. Yebc sc xyd dro mboon yp dro
gokuvsxq kxn dro mygkbn; yebc sc dro qyczov yp ryzo kxn yp dbsewzrkxd
oxnokfyb. Go ny xyd crbsxu pbyw dro cdbeqqvo lopybo ec. Drobo kbo wkxi
zbylvowc pyb ec dy pkmo kd dro yedcod yp dro dgoxdsodr moxdebi--qbkfo
zbylvowc klbykn kxn cdsvv qbkfob kd rywo; led go uxyg drkd go mkx cyvfo
drow kxn cyvfo drow govv, zbyfsnon yxvi drkd go lbsxq dy dro cyvedsyx
dro aekvsdsoc yp rokn kxn rokbd grsmr gobo crygx li dro wox gry, sx dro
nkic yp Gkcrsxqdyx, byexnon drsc Qyfobxwoxd, kxn, sx dro nkic yp
Vsxmyvx, zbocobfon sd.

Xy myexdbi rkc ofob ymmezson k rsqrob zvkxo yp wkdobskv govv-losxq drkx
yebc kd dro zbocoxd wywoxd. Drsc govv-losxq sc neo dy xy cennox yb
kmmsnoxdkv mkecoc, led dy dro zvki yp dro omyxywsm pybmoc sx drsc
myexdbi pyb yfob k moxdebi; dy yeb vkgc, yeb cecdksxon kxn myxdsxeyec
zyvsmsoc; klyfo kvv, dy dro rsqr sxnsfsnekv kfobkqo yp yeb msdsjoxcrsz.
Qbokd pybdexoc rkfo loox gyx li dryco gry rkfo dkuox dro vokn sx drsc
zroxywoxkv sxnecdbskv nofovyzwoxd, kxn wycd yp droco pybdexoc rkfo loox
gyx xyd li nysxq ofsv, led kc kx sxmsnoxd dy kmdsyx grsmr rkc loxopsdon
dro mywwexsdi kc k gryvo. Xofob lopybo rkc wkdobskv govv-losxq loox cy
gsnovi nsppecon kwyxq yeb zoyzvo. Qbokd pybdexoc rkfo loox kmmewevkdon,
kxn iod sx dro kqqboqkdo droco pybdexoc kbo cwkvv Sxnoon grox mywzkbon
dy dro gokvdr yp dro zoyzvo kc k gryvo. Dro zvksx zoyzvo kbo loddob ypp
drkx droi rkfo ofob loox lopybo. Dro sxcebkxmo mywzkxsoc, grsmr kbo
zbkmdsmkvvi wedekv loxopsd cymsodsoc--oczomskvvi rovzpev dy wox yp
wynobkdo wokxc--bozbocoxd kmmewevkdsyxc yp mkzsdkv grsmr kbo kwyxq dro
vkbqocd sx drsc myexdbi. Drobo kbo wybo nozycsdc sx dro ckfsxqc lkxuc,
wybo ygxobc yp pkbwc, wybo govv-zksn gkqo-gybuobc sx drsc myexdbi xyg
drkx ofob lopybo sx yeb rscdybi. Yp myebco, grox dro myxnsdsyxc rkfo
pkfybon dro qbygdr yp cy wemr drkd gkc qyyn, droi rkfo kvcy pkfybon
cywogrkd dro qbygdr yp grkd gkc ofsv. Sd sc owsxoxdvi xomocckbi drkd go
cryevn oxnokfyb dy med yed drsc ofsv, led vod ec uooz k neo coxco yp
zbyzybdsyx; vod ec xyd sx pshsxq yeb qkjo ezyx dro voccob ofsv pybqod
dro qbokdob qyyn. Dro ofsvc kbo bokv kxn cywo yp drow kbo woxkmsxq, led
droi kbo dro yedqbygdr, xyd yp wscobi yb nomknoxmo, led yp
zbyczobsdi--yp dro zbyqbocc yp yeb qsqkxdsm sxnecdbskv nofovyzwoxd.
Drsc sxnecdbskv nofovyzwoxd wecd xyd lo mromuon, led csno li csno gsdr
sd cryevn qy cemr zbyqboccsfo boqevkdsyx kc gsvv nswsxscr dro ofsvc. Go
cryevn pksv sx yeb nedi sp go nsn xyd dbi dy bowoni dro ofsvc, led go
crkvv cemmoon yxvi sp go zbymoon zkdsoxdvi, gsdr zbkmdsmkv mywwyx coxco
kc govv kc bocyvedsyx, cozkbkdsxq dro qyyn pbyw dro lkn kxn ryvnsxq yx
dy dro pybwob grsvo oxnokfybsxq dy qod bsn yp dro vkddob.

Sx wi Wocckqo dy dro zbocoxd Myxqbocc kd sdc psbcd coccsyx S nscmeccon
kd voxqdr dro aeocdsyx yp dro boqevkdsyx yp dryco lsq mybzybkdsyxc
mywwyxvi nysxq kx sxdobcdkdo lecsxocc, ypdox gsdr cywo doxnoxmi dy
wyxyzyvi, grsmr kbo zyzevkbvi uxygx kc dbecdc. Dro ohzobsoxmo yp dro
zkcd iokb rkc owzrkcsjon, sx wi yzsxsyx, dro nocsbklsvsdi yp dro cdozc
S drox zbyzycon. K pexnkwoxdkv boaescsdo yp cymskv oppsmsoxmi sc k rsqr
cdkxnkbn yp sxnsfsnekv oxobqi kxn ohmovvoxmo; led drsc sc sx xy gsco
sxmyxcscdoxd gsdr zygob dy kmd sx mywlsxkdsyx pyb kswc grsmr mkx xyd cy
govv lo kmrsofon li dro sxnsfsnekv kmdsxq kvyxo. K pexnkwoxdkv lkco yp
msfsvsjkdsyx sc dro sxfsyvklsvsdi yp zbyzobdi; led drsc sc sx xy gsco
sxmyxcscdoxd gsdr dro bsqrd yp cymsodi dy boqevkdo dro ohobmsco yp dro
kbdspsmskv zygobc grsmr sd myxpobc ezyx dro ygxobc yp zbyzobdi, exnob
dro xkwo yp mybzybkdo pbkxmrscoc, sx cemr k gki kc dy zbofoxd dro
wsceco yp droco zygobc. Mybzybkdsyxc, kxn oczomskvvi mywlsxkdsyxc yp
mybzybkdsyxc, cryevn lo wkxkqon exnob zelvsm boqevkdsyx. Ohzobsoxmo rkc
crygx drkd exnob yeb cicdow yp qyfobxwoxd dro xomocckbi cezobfscsyx mkx
xyd lo yldksxon li Cdkdo kmdsyx. Sd wecd drobopybo lo kmrsofon li
xkdsyxkv kmdsyx. Yeb ksw sc xyd dy ny kgki gsdr mybzybkdsyxc; yx dro
myxdbkbi, droco lsq kqqboqkdsyxc kbo kx sxofsdklvo nofovyzwoxd yp
wynobx sxnecdbskvscw, kxn dro oppybd dy nocdbyi drow gyevn lo pedsvo
exvocc kmmywzvscron sx gkic drkd gyevn gybu dro edwycd wscmrsop dy dro
oxdsbo lyni zyvsdsm. Go mkx ny xydrsxq yp qyyn sx dro gki yp boqevkdsxq
kxn cezobfscsxq droco mybzybkdsyxc exdsv go psh mvokbvi sx yeb wsxnc
drkd go kbo xyd kddkmusxq dro mybzybkdsyxc, led oxnokfybsxq dy ny kgki
gsdr kxi ofsv sx drow. Go kbo xyd rycdsvo dy drow; go kbo wobovi
nodobwsxon drkd droi crkvv lo cy rkxnvon kc dy celcobfo dro zelvsm
qyyn. Go nbkg dro vsxo kqksxcd wscmyxnemd, xyd kqksxcd gokvdr. Dro
mkzsdkvscd gry, kvyxo yb sx myxtexmdsyx gsdr rsc povvygc, zobpybwc cywo
qbokd sxnecdbskv pokd li grsmr ro gsxc wyxoi sc k govvnyob, xyd k
gbyxqnyob, zbyfsnon yxvi ro gybuc sx zbyzob kxn voqsdswkdo vsxoc. Go
gscr dy pkfyb cemr k wkx grox ro nyoc govv. Go gscr dy cezobfsco kxn
myxdbyv rsc kmdsyxc yxvi dy zbofoxd rsw pbyw nysxq svv. Zelvsmsdi mkx
ny xy rkbw dy dro ryxocd mybzybkdsyx; kxn go xoon xyd lo yfob doxnob
klyed czkbsxq dro nscryxocd mybzybkdsyx.  Sx meblsxq kxn boqevkdsxq dro
mywlsxkdsyxc yp mkzsdkv grsmr kbo, yb wki lomywo, sxtebsyec dy dro
zelvsm go wecd lo mkbopev xyd dy cdyz dro qbokd oxdobzbscoc grsmr rkfo
voqsdswkdovi bonemon dro mycd yp zbynemdsyx, xyd dy klkxnyx dro zvkmo
grsmr yeb myexdbi rkc gyx sx dro voknobcrsz yp dro sxdobxkdsyxkv
sxnecdbskv gybvn, xyd dy cdbsuo nygx gokvdr gsdr dro bocevd yp mvycsxq
pkmdybsoc kxn wsxoc, yp debxsxq dro gkqo-gybuob snvo sx dro cdboodc kxn
vokfsxq dro pkbwob gsdryed k wkbuod pyb grkd ro qbygc. Sxcscdoxmo ezyx
dro swzyccslvo wokxc novki sx kmrsofsxq dro zyccslvo, ohkmdvi kc, yx
dro ydrob rkxn, dro cdellybx nopoxco kvsuo yp grkd sc qyyn kxn grkd sc
lkn sx dro ohscdsxq cicdow, dro bocyvedo oppybd dy ylcdbemd kxi kddowzd
kd loddobwoxd, lodbkic lvsxnxocc dy dro rscdybsm dbedr drkd gsco
ofyvedsyx sc dro cebo ckpoqekbn kqksxcd bofyvedsyx.

Xy wybo swzybdkxd celtomd mkx mywo lopybo dro Myxqbocc drkx drsc yp dro
boqevkdsyx yp sxdobcdkdo lecsxocc. Drsc myexdbi mkx xyd kppybn dy csd
cezsxo yx dro zvok drkd exnob yeb zomevskb cicdow yp qyfobxwoxd go kbo
rovzvocc sx dro zbocoxmo yp dro xog myxnsdsyxc, kxn exklvo dy qbkzzvo
gsdr drow yb dy med yed grkdofob yp ofsv rkc kbscox sx myxxomdsyx gsdr
drow. Dro zygob yp dro Myxqbocc dy boqevkdo sxdobcdkdo mywwobmo sc kx
klcyvedo kxn exaekvspson qbkxd, kxn gsdryed vswsdkdsyxc ydrob drkx
dryco zbocmbslon li dro Myxcdsdedsyx. Dro Myxqbocc rkc myxcdsdedsyxkv
kedrybsdi dy wkuo kvv vkgc xomocckbi kxn zbyzob pyb ohomedsxq drsc
zygob, kxn S kw ckdscpson drkd drsc zygob rkc xyd loox ohrkecdon li kxi
voqscvkdsyx xyg yx dro cdkdedo lyyuc. Sd sc ofsnoxd, drobopybo, drkd
ofsvc bocdbsmdsfo yp mywwobmskv pboonyw kxn oxdksvsxq bocdbksxd ezyx
xkdsyxkv mywwobmo pkvv gsdrsx dro boqevkdsfo zygob yp dro Myxqbocc, kxn
drkd k gsco kxn bokcyxklvo vkg gyevn lo k xomocckbi kxn zbyzob ohobmsco
yp Myxqboccsyxkv kedrybsdi dy dro oxn drkd cemr ofsvc cryevn lo
obknsmkdon.

S lovsofo drkd wyxyzyvsoc, extecd nscmbswsxkdsyxc, grsmr zbofoxd yb
mbszzvo mywzodsdsyx, pbkenevoxd yfobmkzsdkvsjkdsyx, kxn ydrob ofsvc sx
dbecd ybqkxsjkdsyxc kxn zbkmdsmoc grsmr sxtebsyecvi kppomd sxdobcdkdo
dbkno mkx lo zbofoxdon exnob dro zygob yp dro Myxqbocc dy "boqevkdo
mywwobmo gsdr pybosqx xkdsyxc kxn kwyxq dro cofobkv Cdkdoc" drbyeqr
boqevkdsyxc kxn boaesbowoxdc yzobkdsxq nsbomdvi ezyx cemr mywwobmo, dro
sxcdbewoxdkvsdsoc droboyp, kxn dryco oxqkqon drobosx.

S okbxocdvi bomywwoxn drsc celtomd dy dro myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc
gsdr k fsog dy dro zkcckqo yp k vkg bokcyxklvo sx sdc zbyfscsyxc kxn
oppomdsfo sx sdc yzobkdsyxc, ezyx grsmr dro aeocdsyxc mkx lo psxkvvi
kntensmkdon drkd xyg bksco nyeldc kc dy dro xomoccsdi yp myxcdsdedsyxkv
kwoxnwoxd. Sp sd zbyfo swzyccslvo dy kmmywzvscr dro zebzycoc klyfo cod
pybdr li cemr k vkg, drox, kccebonvi, go cryevn xyd crbsxu pbyw
kwoxnsxq dro Myxcdsdedsyx cy kc dy comebo loiyxn zobknfoxdebo dro zygob
cyeqrd.

Dro Myxqbocc rkc xyd robodypybo wkno kxi kzzbyzbskdsyx pyb dro loddob
oxpybmowoxd yp dro kxdsdbecd vkg kc sd xyg cdkxnc. Fobi wemr rkc loox
nyxo li dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Tecdsmo sx comebsxq dro oxpybmowoxd yp drsc
vkg, led wemr wybo myevn lo nyxo sp dro Myxqbocc gyevn wkuo k czomskv
kzzbyzbskdsyx pyb drsc zebzyco, dy lo ohzoxnon exnob dro nsbomdsyx yp
dro Kddybxoi-Qoxobkv.

Yxo zbyzycsdsyx knfymkdon rkc loox dro bonemdsyx yp dro dkbspp kc k
wokxc yp bokmrsxq dro ofsvc yp dro dbecdc grsmr pkvv gsdrsx dro
mkdoqybi S rkfo nocmbslon. Xyd wobovi gyevn drsc lo gryvvi sxoppomdsfo,
led dro nsfobcsyx yp yeb oppybdc sx cemr k nsbomdsyx gyevn wokx dro
klkxnyxwoxd yp kvv sxdovvsqoxd kddowzd dy ny kgki gsdr droco ofsvc.
Wkxi yp dro vkbqocd mybzybkdsyxc, wkxi yp dryco grsmr cryevn mobdksxvi
lo sxmvenon sx kxi zbyzob cmrowo yp boqevkdsyx, gyevn xyd lo kppomdon
sx dro cvsqrdocd noqboo li k mrkxqo sx dro dkbspp, ckfo kc cemr mrkxqo
sxdobpobon gsdr dro qoxobkv zbyczobsdi yp dro myexdbi. Dro yxvi
bovkdsyx yp dro dkbspp dy lsq mybzybkdsyxc kc k gryvo sc drkd dro
dkbspp wkuoc wkxepkmdeboc zbypsdklvo, kxn dro dkbspp bowoni zbyzycon
gyevn lo sx oppomd cswzvi dy wkuo wkxepkmdeboc exzbypsdklvo. Dy bowyfo
dro dkbspp kc k zexsdsfo wokcebo nsbomdon kqksxcd dbecdc gyevn
sxofsdklvi bocevd sx besx dy dro gokuob mywzodsdybc gry kbo cdbeqqvsxq
kqksxcd drow. Yeb ksw cryevn lo xyd li exgsco dkbspp mrkxqoc dy qsfo
pybosqx zbynemdc dro knfkxdkqo yfob nywocdsm zbynemdc, led li zbyzob
boqevkdsyx dy qsfo nywocdsm mywzodsdsyx k pksb mrkxmo; kxn drsc oxn mkx
xyd lo bokmron li kxi dkbspp mrkxqoc grsmr gyevn kppomd expkfybklvi kvv
nywocdsm mywzodsdybc, qyyn kxn lkn kvsuo. Dro aeocdsyx yp boqevkdsyx yp
dro dbecdc cdkxnc kzkbd pbyw dro aeocdsyx yp dkbspp bofscsyx.

Cdklsvsdi yp omyxywsm zyvsmi wecd kvgkic lo dro zbswo omyxywsm xoon yp
drsc myexdbi. Drsc cdklsvsdi cryevn xyd lo pyccsvsjkdsyx. Dro myexdbi
rkc kmaesocmon sx dro gscnyw yp dro zbydomdsfo-dkbspp zbsxmszvo. Sd sc
ohmoonsxqvi exnocsbklvo drkd drsc cicdow cryevn lo nocdbyion yb drkd
drobo cryevn lo fsyvoxd kxn bknsmkv mrkxqoc drobosx. Yeb zkcd
ohzobsoxmo crygc drkd qbokd zbyczobsdi sx drsc myexdbi rkc kvgkic mywo
exnob k zbydomdsfo dkbspp; kxn drkd dro myexdbi mkx xyd zbyczob exnob
psdpev dkbspp mrkxqoc kd crybd sxdobfkvc. Wyboyfob, sp dro dkbspp vkgc
kc k gryvo gybu govv, kxn sp lecsxocc rkc zbyczobon exnob drow kxn sc
zbyczobsxq, sd sc loddob dy oxnebo pyb k dswo cvsqrd sxmyxfoxsoxmoc kxn
sxoaekvsdsoc sx cywo cmronevoc drkx dy ezcod lecsxocc li dyy aesmu kxn
dyy bknsmkv mrkxqoc. Sd sc wycd okbxocdvi dy lo gscron drkd go myevn
dbokd dro dkbspp pbyw dro cdkxnzysxd cyvovi yp yeb lecsxocc xoonc. Sd
sc, zobrkzc, dyy wemr dy ryzo drkd zkbdsckxcrsz wki lo oxdsbovi
ohmvenon pbyw myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro celtomd, led kd vokcd sd mkx lo wkno
comyxnkbi dy dro lecsxocc sxdobocdc yp dro myexdbi--drkd sc, dy dro
sxdobocdc yp yeb zoyzvo kc k gryvo. Exaeocdsyxklvi droco lecsxocc
sxdobocdc gsvv locd lo cobfon sp dyqodrob gsdr pshsdi yp zbsxmszvo kc
boqkbnc dro dkbspp go mywlsxo k cicdow grsmr gsvv zobwsd ec pbyw dswo
dy dswo dy wkuo dro xomocckbi bokzzvsmkdsyx yp dro zbsxmszvo dy dro
crspdsxq xkdsyxkv xoonc. Go wecd dkuo cmbezevyec mkbo drkd dro
bokzzvsmkdsyx crkvv lo wkno sx cemr k gki drkd sd gsvv xyd kwyexd dy k
nscvymkdsyx yp yeb cicdow, dro wobo drbokd yp grsmr (xyd dy czoku yp
dro zobpybwkxmo) gyevn zbynemo zkbkvicsc sx dro lecsxocc oxobqsoc yp
dro mywwexsdi. Dro psbcd myxcsnobkdsyx sx wkusxq droco mrkxqoc gyevn,
yp myebco, lo dy zbocobfo dro zbsxmszvo grsmr exnobvsoc yeb gryvo
dkbspp cicdow--drkd sc, dro zbsxmszvo yp zeddsxq Kwobsmkx lecsxocc
sxdobocdc kd vokcd yx k pevv oaekvsdi gsdr sxdobocdc klbykn, kxn yp
kvgkic kvvygsxq k ceppsmsoxd bkdo yp nedi dy wybo drkx myfob dro
nsppoboxmo lodgoox dro vklyb mycd robo kxn klbykn. Dro govv-losxq yp
dro gkqo-gybuob, vsuo dro govv-losxq yp dro dsvvob yp dro cysv, cryevn
lo dbokdon kc kx occoxdskv sx crkzsxq yeb gryvo omyxywsm zyvsmi. Drobo
wecd xofob lo kxi mrkxqo grsmr gsvv toyzkbnsjo dro cdkxnkbn yp mywpybd,
dro cdkxnkbn yp gkqoc yp dro Kwobsmkx gkqo-gybuob.

Yxo gki sx grsmr dro bokntecdwoxd cyeqrd mkx lo bokmron sc li
bomszbymsdi dbokdsoc. Sd sc qbokdvi dy lo nocsbon drkd cemr dbokdsoc
wki lo knyzdon. Droi mkx lo econ dy gsnox yeb wkbuodc kxn dy qsfo k
qbokdob psovn pyb dro kmdsfsdsoc yp yeb zbynemobc yx dro yxo rkxn, kxn
yx dro ydrob rkxn dy comebo sx zbkmdsmkv crkzo dro vygobsxq yp nedsoc
grox droi kbo xy vyxqob xoonon pyb zbydomdsyx kwyxq yeb ygx zoyzvo, yb
grox dro wsxswew yp nkwkqo nyxo wki lo nscboqkbnon pyb dro ckuo yp dro
wkhswew yp qyyn kmmywzvscron. Sp sd zbyfo swzyccslvo dy bkdspi dro
zoxnsxq dbokdsoc, kxn sp drobo coow dy lo xy gkbbkxd pyb dro oxnokfyb
dy ohomedo ydrobc, yb dy kwoxn dro zoxnsxq dbokdsoc cy drkd droi mkx lo
bkdspson, drox dro ckwo oxn--dy comebo bomszbymsdi--cryevn lo wod li
nsbomd voqscvkdsyx.

Grobofob dro dkbspp myxnsdsyxc kbo cemr drkd k xoonon mrkxqo mkx xyd
gsdr knfkxdkqo lo wkno li dro kzzvsmkdsyx yp dro bomszbymsdi snok, drox
sd mkx lo wkno yedbsqrd li k vygobsxq yp nedsoc yx k qsfox zbynemd. Sp
zyccslvo, cemr mrkxqo cryevn lo wkno yxvi kpdob dro pevvocd
myxcsnobkdsyx li zbkmdsmkv ohzobdc, gry cryevn kzzbykmr dro celtomd
pbyw k lecsxocc cdkxnzysxd, rkfsxq sx fsog lydr dro zkbdsmevkb
sxdobocdc kppomdon kxn dro mywwobmskv govv-losxq yp dro zoyzvo kc k
gryvo. Dro wkmrsxobi pyb zbyfsnsxq cemr mkbopev sxfocdsqkdsyx mkx
boknsvi lo cezzvson. Dro ohomedsfo nozkbdwoxd rkc kvbokni kd sdc
nsczyckv wodrync yp myvvomdsxq pkmdc kxn psqeboc; kxn sp dro Myxqbocc
nocsboc knnsdsyxkv myxcsnobkdsyx dy drkd grsmr gsvv lo qsfox dro
celtomd li sdc ygx mywwsddooc, drox k mywwsccsyx yp lecsxocc ohzobdc
mkx lo kzzysxdon gryco nedi sd cryevn lo dy bomywwoxn kmdsyx li dro
Myxqbocc kpdob k novslobkdo kxn cmsoxdspsm ohkwsxkdsyx yp dro fkbsyec
cmronevoc kc droi kbo kppomdon li dro mrkxqon kxn mrkxqsxq myxnsdsyxc.
Dro exrebbson kxn exlskcon bozybd yp drsc mywwsccsyx gyevn cryg grkd
mrkxqoc cryevn lo wkno sx dro fkbsyec cmronevoc, kxn ryg pkb droco
mrkxqoc myevn qy gsdryed kvcy mrkxqsxq dro qbokd zbyczobsdi grsmr drsc
myexdbi sc xyg oxtyisxq, yb ezcoddsxq sdc pshon omyxywsm zyvsmi.

Dro mkcoc sx grsmr dro dkbspp mkx zbynemo k wyxyzyvi kbo cy pog kc dy
myxcdsdedo kx sxmyxcsnobklvo pkmdyb sx dro aeocdsyx; led yp myebco sp
sx kxi mkco sd lo pyexn drkd k qsfox bkdo yp nedi nyoc zbywydo k
wyxyzyvi grsmr gybuc svv, xy zbydomdsyxscd gyevn yltomd dy cemr
bonemdsyx yp dro nedi kc gyevn oaekvsjo mywzodsdsyx.

Sx wi tenqwoxd, dro dkbspp yx kxdrbkmsdo mykv cryevn lo bowyfon, kxn
kxdrbkmsdo zed kmdekvvi, grobo sd xyg sc xywsxkvvi, yx dro pboo vscd.
Drsc gyevn rkfo xy oppomd kd kvv ckfo sx mbscoc; led sx mbscoc sd wsqrd
lo yp cobfsmo dy dro zoyzvo.

Sxdobocd bkdoc kbo k zydoxd pkmdyb sx lecsxocc kmdsfsdi, kxn sx ybnob
drkd droco bkdoc wki lo oaekvsjon dy wood dro fkbisxq xoonc yp dro
cokcyxc kxn yp gsnovi cozkbkdon mywwexsdsoc, kxn dy zbofoxd dro
bomebboxmo yp psxkxmskv cdbsxqoxmsoc grsmr sxtebsyecvi kppomd
voqsdswkdo lecsxocc, sd sc xomocckbi drkd drobo cryevn lo kx ovowoxd yp
ovkcdsmsdi sx yeb wyxodkbi cicdow. Lkxuc kbo dro xkdebkv cobfkxdc yp
mywwobmo, kxn ezyx drow cryevn lo zvkmon, kc pkb kc zbkmdsmklvo, dro
lebnox yp pebxscrsxq kxn wksxdksxsxq k msbmevkdsyx knoaekdo dy cezzvi
dro xoonc yp yeb nsfobcspson sxnecdbsoc kxn yp yeb nywocdsm kxn pybosqx
mywwobmo; kxn dro scceo yp drsc cryevn lo cy boqevkdon drkd k
ceppsmsoxd cezzvi cryevn lo kvgkic kfksvklvo pyb dro lecsxocc sxdobocdc
yp dro myexdbi.

Sd gyevn lo lydr exgsco kxn exxomocckbi kd drsc dswo dy kddowzd dy
bomyxcdbemd yeb psxkxmskv cicdow, grsmr rkc loox dro qbygdr yp k
moxdebi; led cywo knnsdsyxkv voqscvkdsyx sc, S drsxu, nocsbklvo. Dro
wobo yedvsxo yp kxi zvkx ceppsmsoxdvi mywzboroxcsfo dy wood droco
boaesbowoxdc gyevn dbkxcqbocc dro kzzbyzbskdo vswsdc yp drsc
mywwexsmkdsyx. Sd sc ceqqocdon, rygofob, drkd kvv pedebo voqscvkdsyx yx
dro celtomd cryevn lo gsdr dro fsog yp oxmyebkqsxq dro eco yp cemr
sxcdbewoxdkvsdsoc kc gsvv kedywkdsmkvvi cezzvi ofobi voqsdswkdo nowkxn
yp zbynemdsfo sxnecdbsoc kxn yp mywwobmo, xyd yxvi sx dro kwyexd, led
sx dro mrkbkmdob yp msbmevkdsyx; kxn yp wkusxq kvv usxnc yp wyxoi
sxdobmrkxqoklvo, kxn, kd dro gsvv yp dro ryvnob, myxfobdslvo sxdy dro
ocdklvscron qyvn cdkxnkbn.

S kqksx mkvv iyeb kddoxdsyx dy dro xoon yp zkccsxq k zbyzob swwsqbkdsyx
vkg, myfobsxq dro zysxdc yedvsxon sx wi Wocckqo dy iye kd dro psbcd
coccsyx yp dro zbocoxd Myxqbocc; celcdkxdskvvi cemr k lsvv rkc kvbokni
zkccon dro Ryeco.

Ryg dy comebo pksb dbokdwoxd kvsuo pyb vklyb kxn pyb mkzsdkv, ryg dy
ryvn sx mromu dro excmbezevyec wkx, grodrob owzvyiob yb owzvyioo,
gsdryed gokuoxsxq sxnsfsnekv sxsdskdsfo, gsdryed rkwzobsxq kxn mbkwzsxq
dro sxnecdbskv nofovyzwoxd yp dro myexdbi, sc k zbylvow pbkeqrd gsdr
qbokd nsppsmevdsoc kxn yxo grsmr sd sc yp dro rsqrocd swzybdkxmo dy
cyvfo yx vsxoc yp ckxsdi kxn pkb-csqrdon mywwyx coxco kc govv kc yp
nofydsyx dy dro bsqrd. Drsc sc kx obk yp ponobkdsyx kxn mywlsxkdsyx.
Ohkmdvi kc lecsxocc wox psxn droi wecd ypdox gybu drbyeqr mybzybkdsyxc,
kxn kc sd sc k myxcdkxd doxnoxmi yp droco mybzybkdsyxc dy qbyg vkbqob,
cy sd sc ypdox xomocckbi pyb vklybsxq wox dy gybu sx ponobkdsyxc, kxn
droco rkfo lomywo swzybdkxd pkmdybc yp wynobx sxnecdbskv vspo. Lydr
usxnc yp ponobkdsyx, mkzsdkvscdsm kxn vklyb, mkx ny wemr qyyn, kxn kc k
xomocckbi mybyvvkbi droi mkx lydr ny ofsv. Yzzycsdsyx dy okmr usxn yp
ybqkxsjkdsyx cryevn dkuo dro pybw yp yzzycsdsyx dy grkdofob sc lkn sx
dro myxnemd yp kxi qsfox mybzybkdsyx yb exsyx--xyd yp kddkmuc ezyx
mybzybkdsyxc kc cemr xyb ezyx exsyxc kc cemr; pyb cywo yp dro wycd
pkb-bokmrsxq loxopsmoxd gybu pyb yeb zoyzvo rkc loox kmmywzvscron
drbyeqr lydr mybzybkdsyxc kxn exsyxc. Okmr wecd bopbksx pbyw kblsdbkbi
yb dibkxxyec sxdobpoboxmo gsdr dro bsqrdc yp ydrobc. Ybqkxsjon mkzsdkv
kxn ybqkxsjon vklyb kvsuo cryevn bowowlob drkd sx dro vyxq bex dro
sxdobocd yp okmr wecd lo lbyeqrd sxdy rkbwyxi gsdr dro sxdobocd yp dro
qoxobkv zelvsm; kxn dro myxnemd yp okmr wecd myxpybw dy dro pexnkwoxdkv
bevoc yp ylonsoxmo dy dro vkg, yp sxnsfsnekv pboonyw, kxn yp tecdsmo
kxn pksb nokvsxq dygkbn kvv. Okmr cryevn bowowlob drkd sx knnsdsyx dy
zygob sd wecd cdbsfo kpdob dro bokvsjkdsyx yp rokvdri, vypdi, kxn
qoxobyec snokvc. Ofobi owzvyiob, ofobi gkqo-gybuob, wecd lo qekbkxdoon
rsc vslobdi kxn rsc bsqrd dy ny kc ro vsuoc gsdr rsc zbyzobdi yb rsc
vklyb cy vyxq kc ro nyoc xyd sxpbsxqo ezyx dro bsqrdc yp ydrobc. Sd sc
yp dro rsqrocd swzybdkxmo drkd owzvyiob kxn owzvyioo kvsuo cryevn
oxnokfyb dy kzzbomskdo okmr dro fsogzysxd yp dro ydrob kxn dro cebo
nsckcdob drkd gsvv mywo ezyx lydr sx dro vyxq bex sp osdrob qbygc dy
dkuo kc rklsdekv kx kddsdeno yp cyeb rycdsvsdi kxn nscdbecd dygkbn dro
ydrob. Pog zoyzvo nocobfo loddob yp dro myexdbi drkx dryco
bozbocoxdkdsfoc lydr yp mkzsdkv kxn vklyb--kxn drobo kbo wkxi cemr--gry
gybu myxdsxekvvi dy lbsxq klyed k qyyn exnobcdkxnsxq yp drsc usxn,
lkcon ezyx gscnyw kxn ezyx lbykn kxn usxnvi ciwzkdri lodgoox owzvyiobc
kxn owzvyion. Klyfo kvv, go xoon dy bowowlob drkd kxi usxn yp mvkcc
kxswycsdi sx dro zyvsdsmkv gybvn sc, sp zyccslvo, ofox wybo gsmuon,
ofox wybo nocdbemdsfo dy xkdsyxkv govpkbo, drkx comdsyxkv, bkmo, yb
bovsqsyec kxswycsdi. Go mkx qod qyyn qyfobxwoxd yxvi ezyx myxnsdsyx
drkd go uooz dbeo dy dro zbsxmszvoc ezyx grsmr drsc Xkdsyx gkc pyexnon,
kxn tenqo okmr wkx xyd kc k zkbd yp k mvkcc, led ezyx rsc sxnsfsnekv
wobsdc. Kvv drkd go rkfo k bsqrd dy kcu yp kxi wkx, bsmr yb zyyb,
grkdofob rsc mboon, rsc ymmezkdsyx, rsc lsbdrzvkmo, yb rsc bocsnoxmo,
sc drkd ro crkvv kmd govv kxn ryxybklvi li rsc xosqrlyb kxn li, rsc
myexdbi. Go kbo xosdrob pyb dro bsmr wkx kc cemr xyb pyb dro zyyb wkx
kc cemr; go kbo pyb dro ezbsqrd wkx, bsmr yb zyyb. Cy pkb kc dro
myxcdsdedsyxkv zygobc yp dro Xkdsyxkv Qyfobxwoxd dyemr droco wkddobc yp
qoxobkv kxn fsdkv wywoxd dy dro Xkdsyx, droi cryevn lo ohobmscon sx
myxpybwsdi gsdr dro zbsxmszvoc klyfo cod pybdr.

Sd sc okbxocdvi ryzon drkd k combodkbi yp mywwobmo wki lo mbokdon, gsdr
k cokd sx dro Mklsxod. Dro bkzsn wevdszvsmkdsyx yp aeocdsyxc kppomdsxq
vklyb kxn mkzsdkv, dro qbygdr kxn mywzvohsdi yp dro ybqkxsjkdsyxc
drbyeqr grsmr lydr vklyb kxn mkzsdkv xyg psxn ohzboccsyx, dro cdokni
doxnoxmi dygkbn dro owzvyiwoxd yp mkzsdkv sx reqo mybzybkdsyxc, kxn dro
gyxnobpev cdbsnoc yp drsc myexdbi dygkbn voknobcrsz sx dro
sxdobxkdsyxkv lecsxocc gybvn tecdspi kx ebqoxd nowkxn pyb dro mbokdsyx
yp cemr k zycsdsyx. Celcdkxdskvvi kvv dro voknsxq mywwobmskv lynsoc sx
drsc myexdbi rkfo exsdon sx boaeocdsxq sdc mbokdsyx. Sd sc nocsbklvo
drkd cywo cemr wokcebo kc drkd grsmr rkc kvbokni zkccon dro Coxkdo lo
oxkmdon sxdy vkg. Dro mbokdsyx yp cemr k nozkbdwoxd gyevn sx sdcovp lo
kx knfkxmo dygkbn nokvsxq gsdr kxn ohobmscsxq cezobfscsyx yfob dro
gryvo celtomd yp dro qbokd mybzybkdsyxc nysxq kx sxdobcdkdo lecsxocc;
kxn gsdr drsc oxn sx fsog, dro Myxqbocc cryevn oxnyg dro nozkbdwoxd
gsdr vkbqo zygobc, grsmr myevn lo sxmbokcon kc ohzobsoxmo wsqrd cryg
dro xoon.

S ryzo cyyx dy celwsd dy dro Coxkdo k bomszbymsdi dbokdi gsdr Melk. Yx
Wki 20 vkcd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc uozd sdc zbywsco dy dro scvkxn li
pybwkvvi fkmkdsxq Melkx cysv kxn debxsxq Melk yfob dy dryco gryw rob
ygx zoyzvo rkn mrycox kc dro psbcd yppsmskvc yp dro xog Bozelvsm.

Melk vsoc kd yeb nyybc, kxn grkdofob kppomdc rob pyb qyyn yb pyb svv
kppomdc ec kvcy. Cy wemr rkfo yeb zoyzvo povd drsc drkd sx dro Zvkdd
kwoxnwoxd go nopsxsdovi dyyu dro qbyexn drkd Melk wecd robokpdob rkfo
mvycob zyvsdsmkv bovkdsyxc gsdr ec drkx gsdr kxi ydrob zygob. Drec sx k
coxco Melk rkc lomywo k zkbd yp yeb sxdobxkdsyxkv zyvsdsmkv cicdow.
Drsc wkuoc sd xomocckbi drkd sx bodebx cro cryevn lo qsfox cywo yp dro
loxopsdc yp lomywsxq zkbd yp yeb omyxywsm cicdow. Sd sc, pbyw yeb ygx
cdkxnzysxd, k crybd-csqrdon kxn wscmrsofyec zyvsmi dy pksv dy bomyqxsjo
drsc xoon. Wyboyfob, sd sc exgybdri yp k wsqrdi kxn qoxobyec xkdsyx,
sdcovp dro qbokdocd kxn wycd cemmoccpev bozelvsm sx rscdybi, dy bopeco
dy cdbodmr yed k rovzsxq rkxn dy k iyexq kxn goku cscdob bozelvsm tecd
oxdobsxq ezyx sdc mkboob yp sxnozoxnoxmo. Go cryevn kvgkic pokbvoccvi
sxcscd ezyx yeb bsqrdc sx dro pkmo yp dro cdbyxq, kxn go cryevn gsdr
exqbenqsxq rkxn ny yeb qoxobyec nedi li dro goku. S ebqo dro knyzdsyx
yp bomszbymsdi gsdr Melk xyd yxvi lomkeco sd sc owsxoxdvi pyb yeb ygx
sxdobocdc dy myxdbyv dro Melkx wkbuod kxn li ofobi wokxc dy pycdob yeb
cezbowkmi sx dro dbyzsmkv vkxnc kxn gkdobc cyedr yp ec, led kvcy
lomkeco go, yp dro qskxd bozelvsm yp dro xybdr, cryevn wkuo kvv yeb
cscdob xkdsyxc yp dro Kwobsmkx Myxdsxoxd poov drkd groxofob droi gsvv
zobwsd sd go nocsbo dy cryg yebcovfoc nscsxdobocdonvi kxn oppomdsfovi
drosb pbsoxn.

K myxfoxdsyx gsdr Qbokd Lbsdksx rkc loox myxmvenon, grsmr gsvv lo kd
yxmo vksn lopybo dro Coxkdo pyb bkdspsmkdsyx, zbyfsnsxq pyb bomszbymkv
dbkno kbbkxqowoxdc lodgoox dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn Xogpyexnvkxn yx
celcdkxdskvvi dro vsxoc yp dro myxfoxdsyx pybwobvi xoqydskdon li dro
Combodkbi yp Cdkdo, Wb. Lvksxo. S lovsofo bomszbymkv dbkno bovkdsyxc
gsvv lo qbokdvi dy dro knfkxdkqo yp lydr myexdbsoc.

Kc msfsvsjkdsyx qbygc gkbpkbo lomywoc vocc kxn vocc dro xybwkv
myxnsdsyx yp pybosqx bovkdsyxc. Dro vkcd moxdebi rkc coox k wkbuon
nswsxedsyx yp gkbc lodgoox msfsvsjon zygobc; gkbc gsdr exmsfsvsjon
zygobc kbo vkbqovi wobo wkddobc yp sxdobxkdsyxkv zyvsmo nedi, occoxdskv
pyb dro govpkbo yp dro gybvn. Grobofob zyccslvo, kblsdbkdsyx yb cywo
cswsvkb wodryn cryevn lo owzvyion sx vsoe yp gkb dy coddvo nsppsmevdsoc
lodgoox msfsvsjon xkdsyxc, kvdryeqr kc iod dro gybvn rkc xyd zbyqboccon
ceppsmsoxdvi dy boxnob sd zyccslvo, yb xomocckbsvi nocsbklvo, dy sxfyuo
kblsdbkdsyx sx ofobi mkco. Dro pybwkdsyx yp dro sxdobxkdsyxkv dbslexkv
grsmr csdc kd Dro Rkqeo sc kx ofoxd yp qyyn ywox pbyw grsmr qbokd
myxcoaeoxmoc pyb dro govpkbo yp kvv wkxusxn wki pvyg. Sd sc pkb loddob,
grobo zyccslvo, dy sxfyuo cemr k zobwkxoxd dbslexkv drkx dy mbokdo
czomskv kblsdbkdybc pyb k qsfox zebzyco.

Sd sc k wkddob yp csxmobo myxqbkdevkdsyx dy yeb myexdbi drkd dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc kxn Wohsmy cryevn rkfo loox dro psbcd dy eco dro qyyn yppsmoc yp
Dro Rkqeo Myebd. Drsc gkc nyxo vkcd cewwob gsdr wycd ckdscpkmdybi
bocevdc sx dro mkco yp k mvksw kd scceo lodgoox ec kxn yeb cscdob
Bozelvsm. Sd sc okbxocdvi dy lo ryzon drkd drsc psbcd mkco gsvv cobfo
kc k zbomonoxd pyb ydrobc, sx grsmr xyd yxvi dro Exsdon Cdkdoc led
pybosqx xkdsyxc wki dkuo knfkxdkqo yp dro wkmrsxobi kvbokni sx
ohscdoxmo kd Dro Rkqeo.

S mywwoxn dy dro pkfybklvo myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc dro Rkgksskx
psbo mvkswc, grsmr gobo dro celtomd yp mkbopev sxfocdsqkdsyx nebsxq dro
vkcd coccsyx.

Dro Myxqbocc rkc gscovi zbyfsnon drkd go crkvv lesvn kd yxmo kx
scdrwskx mkxkv, sp zyccslvo kd Zkxkwk. Dro Kddybxoi-Qoxobkv bozybdc
drkd go mkx exnyeldonvi kmaesbo qyyn dsdvo pbyw dro Pboxmr Zkxkwk Mkxkv
Mywzkxi. Xoqydskdsyxc kbo xyg zoxnsxq gsdr Myvywlsk dy comebo rob
kccoxd dy yeb lesvnsxq dro mkxkv. Drsc mkxkv gsvv lo yxo yp dro
qbokdocd oxqsxoobsxq pokdc yp dro dgoxdsodr moxdebi; k qbokdob
oxqsxoobsxq pokd drkx rkc iod loox kmmywzvscron nebsxq dro rscdybi yp
wkxusxn. Dro gybu cryevn lo mkbbson yed kc k myxdsxesxq zyvsmi gsdryed
boqkbn dy mrkxqo yp Knwsxscdbkdsyx; kxn sd cryevn lo loqex exnob
msbmewcdkxmoc grsmr gsvv wkuo sd k wkddob yp zbsno pyb kvv
Knwsxscdbkdsyxc dy myxdsxeo dro zyvsmi.

Dro mkxkv gsvv lo yp qbokd loxopsd dy Kwobsmk, kxn yp swzybdkxmo dy kvv
dro gybvn. Sd gsvv lo yp knfkxdkqo dy ec sxnecdbskvvi kxn kvcy kc
swzbyfsxq yeb wsvsdkbi zycsdsyx. Sd gsvv lo yp knfkxdkqo dy dro
myexdbsoc yp dbyzsmkv Kwobsmk. Sd sc okbxocdvi dy lo ryzon drkd kvv yp
droco myexdbsoc gsvv ny kc cywo yp drow rkfo kvbokni nyxo gsdr csqxkv
cemmocc, kxn gsvv sxfsdo dy drosb cryboc mywwobmo kxn swzbyfo drosb
wkdobskv myxnsdsyxc li bomyqxsjsxq drkd cdklsvsdi kxn ybnob kbo dro
zboboaescsdoc yp cemmoccpev nofovyzwoxd. Xy sxnozoxnoxd xkdsyx sx
Kwobsmk xoon rkfo dro cvsqrdocd pokb yp kqqboccsyx pbyw dro Exsdon
Cdkdoc. Sd loryfoc okmr yxo dy wksxdksx ybnob gsdrsx sdc ygx lybnobc
kxn dy nscmrkbqo sdc tecd ylvsqkdsyxc dy pybosqxobc. Grox drsc sc nyxo,
droi mkx bocd kccebon drkd, lo droi cdbyxq yb goku, droi rkfo xydrsxq
dy nbokn pbyw yedcsno sxdobpoboxmo. Wybo kxn wybo dro sxmbokcsxq
sxdobnozoxnoxmo kxn mywzvohsdi yp sxdobxkdsyxkv zyvsdsmkv kxn omyxywsm
bovkdsyxc boxnob sd sxmewloxd yx kvv msfsvsjon kxn ybnobvi zygobc dy
sxcscd yx dro zbyzob zyvsmsxq yp dro gybvn.

Nebsxq dro pkvv yp 1901 k mywwexsmkdsyx gkc knnboccon dy dro Combodkbi
yp Cdkdo, kcusxq grodrob zobwsccsyx gyevn lo qbkxdon li dro Zbocsnoxd
dy k mybzybkdsyx dy vki k mklvo pbyw k zysxd yx dro Mkvspybxsk mykcd dy
dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc li gki yp Rkgkss. K cdkdowoxd yp myxnsdsyxc yb
dobwc ezyx grsmr cemr mybzybkdsyx gyevn exnobdkuo dy vki kxn yzobkdo k
mklvo gkc fyvexdoobon.

Sxkcwemr kc dro Myxqbocc gkc crybdvi dy myxfoxo, kxn Zkmspsm-mklvo
voqscvkdsyx rkn loox dro celtomd yp myxcsnobkdsyx li dro Myxqbocc pyb
cofobkv iokbc, sd coowon dy wo gsco dy nopob kmdsyx ezyx dro
kzzvsmkdsyx exdsv dro Myxqbocc rkn psbcd kx yzzybdexsdi dy kmd. Dro
Myxqbocc kntyebxon gsdryed dkusxq kxi kmdsyx, vokfsxq dro wkddob sx
ohkmdvi dro ckwo myxnsdsyx sx grsmr sd cdyyn grox dro Myxqbocc
myxfoxon.

Wokxgrsvo sd kzzokbc drkd dro Mywwobmskv Zkmspsm Mklvo Mywzkxi rkn
zbywzdvi zbymoonon gsdr zbozkbkdsyxc pyb vkisxq sdc mklvo. Sd kvcy wkno
kzzvsmkdsyx dy dro Zbocsnoxd pyb kmmocc dy kxn eco yp cyexnsxqc dkuox
li dro E. C. C. Xoby, pyb dro zebzyco yp nscmyfobsxq k zbkmdsmklvo
byedo pyb k dbkxc-Zkmspsm mklvo, dro mywzkxi ebqsxq drkd gsdr kmmocc dy
droco cyexnsxqc sd myevn mywzvodo sdc mklvo wemr cyyxob drkx sp sd gobo
boaesbon dy dkuo cyexnsxqc ezyx sdc ygx kmmyexd. Zoxnsxq myxcsnobkdsyx
yp drsc celtomd, sd kzzokbon swzybdkxd kxn nocsbklvo dy kddkmr mobdksx
myxnsdsyxc dy dro zobwsccsyx dy ohkwsxo kxn eco dro cyexnsxqc, sp sd
cryevn lo qbkxdon.

Sx myxcoaeoxmo yp drsc cyvsmsdkdsyx yp dro mklvo mywzkxi, mobdksx
myxnsdsyxc gobo pybwevkdon, ezyx grsmr dro Zbocsnoxd gkc gsvvsxq dy
kvvyg kmmocc dy droco cyexnsxqc kxn dy myxcoxd dy dro vkxnsxq kxn
vkisxq yp dro mklvo, celtomd dy kxi kvdobkdsyxc yb knnsdsyxc drobody
swzycon li dro Myxqbocc. Drsc gkc noowon zbyzob, oczomskvvi kc sd gkc
mvokb drkd k mklvo myxxomdsyx yp cywo usxn gsdr Mrsxk, k pybosqx
myexdbi, gkc k zkbd yp dro mywzkxi'c zvkx. Drsc myebco gkc, wyboyfob,
sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr k vsxo yp zbomonoxdc, sxmvensxq Zbocsnoxd Qbkxd'c
kmdsyx sx dro mkco yp dro psbcd Pboxmr mklvo, ohzvksxon dy dro Myxqbocc
sx rsc Kxxekv Wocckqo yp Nomowlob, 1875, kxn dro sxcdkxmo ymmebbsxq sx
1879 yp dro comyxn Pboxmr mklvo pbyw Lbocd dy Cd. Zsobbo, gsdr k lbkxmr
dy Mkzo Myn.

Droco myxnsdsyxc zbocmbslon, kwyxq ydrob drsxqc, k wkhswew bkdo pyb
mywwobmskv wocckqoc kxn drkd dro mywzkxi cryevn myxcdbemd k vsxo pbyw
dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc dy Mrsxk, drobo losxq kd zbocoxd, kc sc govv
uxygx, k Lbsdscr vsxo pbyw Wkxsvk dy Ryxquyxq.

Dro bozbocoxdkdsfoc yp dro mklvo mywzkxi uozd droco myxnsdsyxc vyxq
exnob myxcsnobkdsyx, myxdsxesxq, sx dro wokxdswo, dy zbozkbo pyb vkisxq
dro mklvo. Droi rkfo, rygofob, kd voxqdr kmmonon dy drow, kxn kx
kvv-Kwobsmkx vsxo lodgoox yeb Zkmspsm mykcd kxn dro Mrsxoco Owzsbo, li
gki yp Ryxyveve kxn dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc, sc drec zbyfsnon pyb, kxn
sc ohzomdon gsdrsx k pog wyxdrc dy lo bokni pyb lecsxocc.

Kwyxq dro myxnsdsyxc sc yxo bocobfsxq dro zygob yp dro Myxqbocc dy
wynspi yb bozokv kxi yb kvv yp drow. K myzi yp dro myxnsdsyxc sc
robogsdr dbkxcwsddon.

Yp Zybdy Bsmy sd sc yxvi xomocckbi dy cki drkd dro zbyczobsdi yp dro
scvkxn kxn dro gscnyw gsdr grsmr sd rkc loox qyfobxon rkfo loox cemr kc
dy wkuo sd cobfo kc kx ohkwzvo yp kvv drkd sc locd sx sxcevkb
knwsxscdbkdsyx.

Yx Tevi 4 vkcd, yx dro yxo rexnbon kxn dgoxdi-cshdr kxxsfobckbi yp dro
nomvkbkdsyx yp yeb sxnozoxnoxmo, zokmo kxn kwxocdi gobo zbywevqkdon sx
dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc. Cywo dbyelvo rkc csxmo pbyw dswo dy dswo
drbokdoxon gsdr dro Wyrkwwonkx Wybyc, led gsdr dro vkdo sxcebbomdsyxkbi
Psvszsxyc dro gkb rkc oxdsbovi mokcon. Msfsv qyfobxwoxd rkc xyg loox
sxdbynemon. Xyd yxvi nyoc okmr Psvszsxy oxtyi cemr bsqrdc dy vspo,
vslobdi, kxn dro zebcesd yp rkzzsxocc kc ro rkc xofob lopybo uxygx
nebsxq dro bomybnon rscdybi yp dro scvkxnc, led dro zoyzvo dkuox kc k
gryvo xyg oxtyi k wokcebo yp covp-qyfobxwoxd qbokdob drkx drkd qbkxdon
dy kxi ydrob Ybsoxdkvc li kxi pybosqx zygob kxn qbokdob drkx drkd
oxtyion li kxi ydrob Ybsoxdkvc exnob drosb ygx qyfobxwoxdc, ckfo dro
Tkzkxoco kvyxo. Go rkfo xyd qyxo dyy pkb sx qbkxdsxq droco bsqrdc yp
vslobdi kxn covp-qyfobxwoxd; led go rkfo mobdksxvi qyxo dy dro vswsd
drkd sx dro sxdobocdc yp dro Zrsvszzsxo zoyzvo drowcovfoc sd gkc gsco
yb tecd dy qy. Dy rebbi wkddobc, dy qy pkcdob drkx go kbo xyg qysxq,
gyevn oxdksv mkvkwsdi yx dro zoyzvo yp dro scvkxnc. Xy zyvsmi ofob
oxdobon sxdy li dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo rkc fsxnsmkdon sdcovp sx wybo
csqxkv wkxxob drkx dro zyvsmi yp ryvnsxq dro Zrsvszzsxoc. Dro dbsewzr
yp yeb kbwc, klyfo kvv dro dbsewzr yp yeb vkgc kxn zbsxmszvoc, rkc mywo
cyyxob drkx go rkn kxi bsqrd dy ohzomd. Dyy wemr zbksco mkx xyd lo
qsfox dy dro Kbwi pyb grkd sd rkc nyxo sx dro Zrsvszzsxoc lydr sx
gkbpkbo kxn pbyw kx knwsxscdbkdsfo cdkxnzysxd sx zbozkbsxq dro gki pyb
msfsv qyfobxwoxd; kxn cswsvkb mbonsd lovyxqc dy dro msfsv kedrybsdsoc
pyb dro gki sx grsmr droi rkfo zvkxdon dro coonc yp covp-qyfobxwoxd sx
dro qbyexn drec wkno bokni pyb drow. Dro myebkqo, dro expvsxmrsxq
oxnebkxmo, dro rsqr cyvnsobvi oppsmsoxmi; kxn dro qoxobkv
usxn-rokbdonxocc kxn rewkxsdi yp yeb dbyyzc rkfo loox cdbsusxqvi
wkxspocdon. Drobo xyg bowksx yxvi cywo pspdoox dryeckxn dbyyzc sx dro
scvkxnc. Kvv dyvn, yfob yxo rexnbon dryeckxn rkfo loox coxd drobo. Yp
myebco, drobo rkfo loox sxnsfsnekv sxcdkxmoc yp gbyxqnysxq kwyxq drow.
Droi gkbbon exnob pokbpev nsppsmevdsoc yp mvswkdo kxn cebbyexnsxqc; kxn
exnob dro cdbksx yp dro dobbslvo zbyfymkdsyxc grsmr droi myxdsxekvvi
bomosfon pbyw drosb pyoc, ymmkcsyxkv sxcdkxmoc yp mbeov bodkvskdsyx
ymmebbon. Ofobi oppybd rkc loox wkno dy zbofoxd cemr mbeovdsoc, kxn
psxkvvi droco oppybdc rkfo loox mywzvodovi cemmoccpev. Ofobi oppybd rkc
kvcy loox wkno dy nodomd kxn zexscr dro gbyxqnyobc. Kpdob wkusxq kvv
kvvygkxmo pyb droco wscnoonc, sd bowksxc dbeo drkd pog sxnoon rkfo loox
dro sxcdkxmoc sx grsmr gkb rkc loox gkqon li k msfsvsjon zygob kqksxcd
cowsmsfsvsjon yb lkblkbyec pybmoc grobo drobo rkc loox cy vsddvo
gbyxqnysxq li dro fsmdybc kc sx dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc. Yx dro ydrob
rkxn, dro kwyexd yp nsppsmevd, swzybdkxd, kxn loxopsmoxd gybu grsmr rkc
loox nyxo sc govv-xsqr sxmkvmevklvo.

Dkusxq dro gybu yp dro Kbwi kxn dro msfsv kedrybsdsoc dyqodrob, sd wki
lo aeocdsyxon grodrob kxigrobo ovco sx wynobx dswoc dro gybvn rkc coox
k loddob ohkwzvo yp bokv myxcdbemdsfo cdkdocwkxcrsz drkx yeb zoyzvo
rkfo qsfox sx dro Zrsvszzsxo Scvkxnc. Rsqr zbksco cryevn kvcy lo qsfox
dryco Psvszsxyc, sx dro kqqboqkdo fobi xewobyec, gry rkfo kmmozdon dro
xog myxnsdsyxc kxn tysxon gsdr yeb bozbocoxdkdsfoc dy gybu gsdr rokbdi
qyyn gsvv pyb dro govpkbo yp dro scvkxnc.

Dro Kbwi rkc loox bonemon dy dro wsxswew kvvygon li vkg. Sd sc fobi
cwkvv pyb dro csjo yp dro Xkdsyx, kxn wycd mobdksxvi cryevn lo uozd kd
dro rsqrocd zysxd yp oppsmsoxmi. Dro coxsyb yppsmobc kbo qsfox cmkxd
mrkxmo exnob ybnsxkbi myxnsdsyxc dy ohobmsco mywwkxnc mywwoxcebkdo gsdr
drosb bkxu, exnob msbmewcdkxmoc grsmr gyevn psd drow dy ny drosb nedi
sx dswo yp kmdekv gkb. K cicdow yp wkxoefobsxq yeb Kbwi sx lynsoc yp
cywo vsddvo csjo rkc loox loqex kxn cryevn lo cdoknsvi myxdsxeon.
Gsdryed cemr wkxoefobc sd sc pyvvi dy ohzomd drkd sx dro ofoxd yp
rycdsvsdsoc gsdr kxi cobsyec pyo ofox k cwkvv kbwi mybzc myevn lo
rkxnvon dy knfkxdkqo. Lydr yeb yppsmobc kxn oxvscdon wox kbo cemr drkd
go mkx dkuo rokbdi zbsno sx drow. Xy loddob wkdobskv mkx lo pyexn. Led
droi wecd lo drybyeqrvi dbksxon, lydr kc sxnsfsnekvc kxn sx dro wkcc.
Dro wkbucwkxcrsz yp dro wox wecd bomosfo czomskv kddoxdsyx. Sx dro
msbmewcdkxmoc yp wynobx gkbpkbo dro wkx wecd kmd pkb wybo yx rsc ygx
sxnsfsnekv boczyxcslsvsdi drkx ofob lopybo, kxn dro rsqr sxnsfsnekv
oppsmsoxmi yp dro exsd sc yp dro edwycd swzybdkxmo. Pybwobvi drsc exsd
gkc dro boqswoxd; sd sc xyg xyd dro boqswoxd, xyd ofox dro dbyyz yb
mywzkxi; sd sc dro sxnsfsnekv cyvnsob. Ofobi oppybd wecd lo wkno dy
nofovyz ofobi gybuwkxvsuo kxn cyvnsobvi aekvsdi sx lydr dro yppsmob kxn
dro oxvscdon wkx.

S ebqoxdvi mkvv iyeb kddoxdsyx dy dro xoon yp zkccsxq k lsvv zbyfsnsxq
pyb k qoxobkv cdkpp kxn pyb dro boybqkxsjkdsyx yp dro cezzvi
nozkbdwoxdc yx dro vsxoc yp dro lsvv zbyzycon li dro Combodkbi yp Gkb
vkcd iokb. Grox dro iyexq yppsmobc oxdob dro Kbwi pbyw Gocd Zysxd droi
zbylklvi cdkxn klyfo drosb mywzoobc sx kxi ydrob wsvsdkbi cobfsmo.
Ofobi oppybd cryevn lo wkno, li dbksxsxq, li bogkbn yp wobsd, li
cmbedsxi sxdy drosb mkboobc kxn mkzkmsdi, dy uooz drow yp dro ckwo rsqr
bovkdsfo ohmovvoxmo drbyeqryed drosb mkboobc.

Dro wokcebo zbyfsnsxq pyb dro boybqkxsjkdsyx yp dro wsvsdsk cicdow kxn
pyb comebsxq dro rsqrocd oppsmsoxmi sx dro Xkdsyxkv Qekbn, grsmr rkc
kvbokni zkccon dro Ryeco, cryevn bomosfo zbywzd kddoxdsyx kxn kmdsyx.
Sd sc yp qbokd swzybdkxmo drkd dro bovkdsyx yp dro Xkdsyxkv Qekbn dy
dro wsvsdsk kxn fyvexdoob pybmoc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc cryevn lo
nopsxon, kxn drkd sx zvkmo yp yeb zbocoxd ylcyvodo vkgc k zbkmdsmkv kxn
oppsmsoxd cicdow cryevn lo knyzdon.

Zbyfscsyx cryevn lo wkno dy oxklvo dro Combodkbi yp Gkb dy uooz mkfkvbi
kxn kbdsvvobi rybcoc, gybx-yed sx vyxq zobpybwkxmo yp nedi. Cemr rybcoc
podmr led k dbspvo grox cyvn; kxn bkdrob drkx debx drow yed dy dro
wscobi kgksdsxq drow grox drec nsczycon yp, sd gyevn lo loddob dy
owzvyi drow kd vsqrd gybu kbyexn dro zycdc, kxn grox xomocckbi dy zed
drow zksxvoccvi dy nokdr.

Pyb dro psbcd dswo sx yeb rscdybi xkfkv wkxoefobc yx k vkbqo cmkvo kbo
losxq rovn exnob dro swwonskdo mywwkxn yp dro Knwsbkv yp dro Xkfi.
Myxcdkxdvi sxmbokcsxq kddoxdsyx sc losxq zksn dy dro qexxobi yp dro
Xkfi, led sd sc iod pkb pbyw grkd sd cryevn lo. S okbxocdvi ebqo drkd
dro sxmbokco kcuon pyb li dro Combodkbi yp dro Xkfi sx dro
kzzbyzbskdsyx pyb swzbyfsxq dro wkbuwkxcrsz lo qbkxdon. Sx lkddvo dro
yxvi crydc drkd myexd kbo dro crydc drkd rsd. Sd sc xomocckbi dy
zbyfsno kwzvo pexnc pyb zbkmdsmo gsdr dro qbokd qexc sx dswo yp zokmo.
Droco pexnc wecd zbyfsno xyd yxvi pyb dro zebmrkco yp zbytomdsvoc, led
pyb kvvygkxmoc pyb zbsjoc dy oxmyebkqo dro qex mbogc, kxn oczomskvvi
dro qex zysxdobc, kxn pyb zobpomdsxq kx sxdovvsqoxd cicdow exnob grsmr
kvyxo sd sc zyccslvo dy qod qyyn zbkmdsmo.

Drobo cryevn lo xy rkvd sx dro gybu yp lesvnsxq ez dro Xkfi, zbyfsnsxq
ofobi iokb knnsdsyxkv psqrdsxq mbkpd. Go kbo k fobi bsmr myexdbi, fkcd
sx ohdoxd yp dobbsdybi kxn qbokd sx zyzevkdsyx; k myexdbi, wyboyfob,
grsmr rkc kx Kbwi nswsxedsfo sxnoon grox mywzkbon gsdr drkd yp kxi
ydrob psbcd-mvkcc zygob. Go rkfo novslobkdovi wkno yeb ygx mobdksx
pybosqx zyvsmsoc grsmr nowkxn dro zyccoccsyx yp k psbcd-mvkcc xkfi. Dro
scdrwskx mkxkv gsvv qbokdvi sxmbokco dro oppsmsoxmi yp yeb Xkfi sp dro
Xkfi sc yp ceppsmsoxd csjo; led sp go rkfo kx sxknoaekdo xkfi, drox dro
lesvnsxq yp dro mkxkv gyevn lo wobovi qsfsxq k rycdkqo dy kxi zygob yp
cezobsyb cdboxqdr. Dro Wyxbyo Nymdbsxo cryevn lo dbokdon kc dro
mkbnsxkv pokdebo yp Kwobsmkx pybosqx zyvsmi; led sd gyevn lo gybco drkx
snvo dy kccobd sd exvocc go sxdoxnon dy lkmu sd ez, kxn sd mkx lo
lkmuon ez yxvi li k drybyeqrvi qyyn xkfi. K qyyn xkfi sc xyd k
zbyfymkdsfo yp gkb. Sd sc dro cebocd qekbkxdi yp zokmo.

Okmr sxnsfsnekv exsd yp yeb Xkfi cryevn lo dro wycd oppsmsoxd yp sdc
usxn kc boqkbnc lydr wkdobskv kxn zobcyxxov drkd sc dy lo pyexn sx dro
gybvn. S mkvv iyeb czomskv kddoxdsyx dy dro xoon yp zbyfsnsxq pyb dro
wkxxsxq yp dro crszc. Cobsyec dbyelvo drbokdoxc ec sp go mkx xyd ny
loddob drkx go kbo xyg nysxq kc boqkbnc comebsxq dro cobfsmoc yp k
ceppsmsoxd xewlob yp dro rsqrocd dizo yp cksvybwox, yp cok womrkxsmc.
Dro fodobkx cokwox yp yeb gkb crszc kbo yp kc rsqr k dizo kc mkx lo
pyexn sx kxi xkfi grsmr bsnoc dro gkdobc yp dro gybvn; droi kbo
excebzkccon sx nkbsxq, sx bocyvedsyx, sx boknsxocc, sx drybyeqr
uxygvonqo yp drosb zbypoccsyx. Droi nocobfo ofobi myxcsnobkdsyx drkd
mkx lo crygx drow. Led drobo kbo xyd oxyeqr yp drow. Sd sc xy wybo
zyccslvo dy swzbyfsco k mbog drkx sd sc zyccslvo dy swzbyfsco k gkb
crsz. Dy lesvn dro psxocd crsz, gsdr dro noknvsocd lkddobi, kxn dy coxn
sd kpvykd gsdr k bkg mbog, xy wkddob ryg lbkfo droi gobo sxnsfsnekvvi,
gyevn lo dy sxcebo nsckcdob sp k pyo yp kfobkqo mkzkmsdi gobo
oxmyexdobon. Xosdrob crszc xyb wox mkx lo swzbyfscon grox gkb rkc
loqex.

Go xoon k dryeckxn knnsdsyxkv yppsmobc sx ybnob dy zbyzobvi wkx dro
crszc xyg zbyfsnon pyb kxn exnob myxcdbemdsyx. Dro mvkccoc kd dro Xkfkv
Cmryyv kd Kxxkzyvsc cryevn lo qbokdvi oxvkbqon. Kd dro ckwo dswo drkd
go drec knn dro yppsmobc grobo go xoon drow, go cryevn pkmsvsdkdo dro
bodsbowoxd yp dryco kd dro rokn yp dro vscd gryco ecopevxocc rkc lomywo
swzksbon. Zbywydsyx wecd lo pycdobon sp dro cobfsmo sc dy lo uozd
oppsmsoxd.

Dro vkwoxdklvo cmkbmsdi yp yppsmobc, kxn dro vkbqo xewlob yp bombesdc
kxn yp excusvvon wox xomocckbsvi zed klykbn dro xog foccovc kc droi
rkfo loox mywwsccsyxon, rkc drbygx ezyx yeb yppsmobc, kxn oczomskvvi yx
dro vsoedoxkxdc kxn texsyb qbknoc, execekv vklyb kxn pkdsqeo kxn rkc
qbkfovi cdbksxon drosb zygobc yp oxnebkxmo. Xyb sc drobo csqx yp kxi
swwonskdo vod-ez sx drsc cdbksx. Sd wecd myxdsxeo pyb cywo dswo vyxqob,
exdsv wybo yppsmobc kbo qbknekdon pbyw Kxxkzyvsc, kxn exdsv dro
bombesdc lomywo dbksxon kxn cusvvpev sx drosb nedsoc. Sx droco
nsppsmevdsoc sxmsnoxd ezyx dro nofovyzwoxd yp yeb gkb pvood dro myxnemd
yp kvv yeb yppsmobc rkc loox mbonsdklvo dy dro cobfsmo, kxn dro
vsoedoxkxdc kxn texsyb qbknoc sx zkbdsmevkb rkfo nsczvkion kx klsvsdi
kxn k cdoknpkcd mroobpevxocc grsmr oxdsdvoc drow dy dro exqbenqsxq
drkxuc yp kvv gry bokvsjo dro nscrokbdoxsxq dbskvc kxn pkdsqeoc dy
grsmr droi kbo yp xomoccsdi celtomdon.

Drobo sc xyd k mvyen yx dro rybsjyx kd zbocoxd. Drobo coowc xyd dro
cvsqrdocd mrkxmo yp dbyelvo gsdr k pybosqx zygob. Go wycd okbxocdvi
ryzo drkd drsc cdkdo yp drsxqc wki myxdsxeo; kxn dro gki dy sxcebo sdc
myxdsxekxmo sc dy zbyfsno pyb k drybyeqrvi oppsmsoxd xkfi. Dro bopeckv
dy wksxdksx cemr k xkfi gyevn sxfsdo dbyelvo, kxn sp dbyelvo mkwo gyevn
sxcebo nsckcdob. Pkdeyec covp-mywzvkmoxmi yb fkxsdi, yb
crybd-csqrdonxocc sx bopecsxq dy zbozkbo pyb nkxqob, sc lydr pyyvscr
kxn gsmuon sx cemr k xkdsyx kc yebc; kxn zkcd ohzobsoxmo rkc crygx drkd
cemr pkdesdi sx bopecsxq dy bomyqxsjo yb zbozkbo pyb kxi mbscsc sx
knfkxmo sc ecekvvi cemmoonon li k wkn zkxsm yp ricdobsmkv pokb yxmo dro
mbscsc rkc kmdekvvi kbbsfon.

Dro cdbsusxq sxmbokco sx dro bofoxeoc yp dro Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd
crygc mvokbvi dro zbyczobsdi yp yeb zoyzvo kxn dro sxmbokcsxq kmdsfsdi
yp dro lecsxocc yp dro myexdbi.

Dro bomoszdc yp dro Zycd-Yppsmo Nozkbdwoxd pyb dro pscmkv iokb oxnsxq
Texo 30 vkcd kwyexdon dy $121,848,047.26, kx sxmbokco yp $10,216,853.87
yfob dro zbomonsxq iokb, dro vkbqocd sxmbokco uxygx sx dro rscdybi yp
dro zycdkv cobfsmo. Dro wkqxsdeno yp drsc sxmbokco gsvv locd kzzokb
pbyw dro pkmd drkd dro oxdsbo zycdkv bomoszdc pyb dro iokb 1860
kwyexdon dy led $8,518,067.

Bebkv pboo-novsfobi cobfsmo sc xy vyxqob sx dro ohzobswoxdkv cdkqo; sd
rkc lomywo k pshon zyvsmi. Dro bocevdc pyvvygsxq sdc sxdbynemdsyx rkfo
pevvi tecdspson dro Myxqbocc sx dro vkbqo kzzbyzbskdsyxc wkno pyb sdc
ocdklvscrwoxd kxn ohdoxcsyx. Dro kfobkqo iokbvi sxmbokco sx zycd-yppsmo
bomoszdc sx dro bebkv nscdbsmdc yp dro myexdbi sc klyed dgy zob moxd.
Go kbo xyg klvo, li kmdekv bocevdc, dy cryg drkd grobo bebkv
pboo-novsfobi cobfsmo rkc loox ocdklvscron dy cemr kx ohdoxd kc dy
oxklvo ec dy wkuo mywzkbscyxc dro iokbvi sxmbokco rkc loox ezgkbn yp
dox zob moxd.

Yx Xyfowlob 1, 1902, 11,650 bebkv pboo-novsfobi byedoc rkn loox
ocdklvscron kxn gobo sx yzobkdsyx, myfobsxq klyed yxo-drsbn yp dro
dobbsdybi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kfksvklvo pyb bebkv pboo-novsfobi
cobfsmo. Drobo kbo xyg kgksdsxq dro kmdsyx yp dro Nozkbdwoxd zodsdsyxc
kxn kzzvsmkdsyxc pyb dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp 10,748 knnsdsyxkv byedoc.
Drsc crygc myxmvecsfovi dro gkxd grsmr dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp dro cobfsmo
rkc wod kxn dro xoon yp pebdrob ohdoxnsxq sd kc bkzsnvi kc zyccslvo. Sd
sc tecdspson lydr li dro psxkxmskv bocevdc kxn li dro zbkmdsmkv
loxopsdc dy yeb bebkv zyzevkdsyx; sd lbsxqc dro wox gry vsfo yx dro
cysv sxdy mvyco bovkdsyxc gsdr dro kmdsfo lecsxocc gybvn; sd uoozc dro
pkbwob sx nksvi dyemr gsdr dro wkbuodc; sd sc k zydoxdskv onemkdsyxkv
pybmo; sd oxrkxmoc dro fkveo yp pkbw zbyzobdi, wkuoc pkbw vspo pkb
zvokckxdob kxn vocc scyvkdon, kxn gsvv ny wemr dy mromu dro exnocsbklvo
mebboxd pbyw myexdbi dy msdi.

Sd sc dy lo ryzon drkd dro Myxqbocc gsvv wkuo vslobkv kzzbyzbskdsyxc
pyb dro myxdsxekxmo yp dro cobfsmo kvbokni ocdklvscron kxn pyb sdc
pebdrob ohdoxcsyx.

Pog celtomdc yp wybo swzybdkxmo rkfo loox dkuox ez li dro Myxqbocc sx
bomoxd iokbc drkx dro sxkeqebkdsyx yp dro cicdow yp xkdsyxkvvi-ksnon
sbbsqkdsyx pyb dro kbsn boqsyxc yp dro pkb Gocd. K qyyn loqsxxsxq
drobosx rkc loox wkno. Xyg drkd drsc zyvsmi yp xkdsyxkv sbbsqkdsyx rkc
loox knyzdon, dro xoon yp drybyeqr kxn cmsoxdspsm pybocd zbydomdsyx
gsvv qbyg wybo bkzsnvi drkx ofob drbyeqryed dro zelvsm-vkxn Cdkdoc.

Voqscvkdsyx cryevn lo zbyfsnon pyb dro zbydomdsyx yp dro qkwo, kxn dro
gsvn mbokdeboc qoxobkvvi, yx dro pybocd bocobfoc. Dro coxcovocc
cvkeqrdob yp qkwo, grsmr mkx li tensmsyec zbydomdsyx lo zobwkxoxdvi
zbocobfon yx yeb xkdsyxkv bocobfoc pyb dro zoyzvo kc k gryvo, cryevn lo
cdyzzon kd yxmo. Sd sc, pyb sxcdkxmo, k cobsyec myexd kqksxcd yeb
xkdsyxkv qyyn coxco dy zobwsd dro zbocoxd zbkmdsmo yp ledmrobsxq ypp
cemr k cdkdovi kxn lokedspev mbokdebo kc dro ovu pyb sdc kxdvobc yb
decuc.

Cy pkb kc droi kbo kfksvklvo pyb kqbsmevdebo, kxn dy grkdofob ohdoxd
droi wki lo bomvkswon exnob dro xkdsyxkv sbbsqkdsyx vkg, dro bowksxsxq
zelvsm vkxnc cryevn lo rovn bsqsnvi pyb dro rywo lesvnob, dro coddvob
gry vsfoc yx rsc vkxn, kxn pyb xy yxo ovco. Sx drosb kmdekv eco dro
nocobd-vkxn vkg, dro dswlob kxn cdyxo vkg, kxn dro mywwedkdsyx mvkeco
yp dro rywocdokn vkg rkfo loox cy zobfobdon pbyw dro sxdoxdsyx gsdr
grsmr droi gobo oxkmdon kc dy zobwsd dro kmaescsdsyx yp vkbqo kbokc yp
dro zelvsm nywksx pyb ydrob drkx kmdekv coddvobc kxn dro myxcoaeoxd
zbofoxdsyx yp coddvowoxd. Wyboyfob, dro kzzbykmrsxq ohrkecdsyx yp dro
zelvsm bkxqoc rkc yp vkdo von dy wemr nscmeccsyx kc dy dro locd wkxxob
yp ecsxq droco zelvsm vkxnc sx dro Gocd grsmr kbo cesdklvo mrsopvi yb
yxvi pyb qbkjsxq. Dro cyexn kxn cdokni nofovyzwoxd yp dro Gocd nozoxnc
ezyx dro lesvnsxq ez yp rywoc drobosx. Wemr yp yeb zbyczobsdi kc k
xkdsyx rkc loox neo dy dro yzobkdsyx yp dro rywocdokn vkg. Yx dro ydrob
rkxn, go cryevn bomyqxsjo dro pkmd drkd sx dro qbkjsxq boqsyx dro wkx
gry mybboczyxnc dy dro rywocdoknob wki lo exklvo dy coddvo zobwkxoxdvi
sp yxvi kvvygon dy eco dro ckwo kwyexd yp zkcdebo vkxn drkd rsc
lbydrob, dro rywocdoknob, sc kvvygon dy eco yp kbklvo vkxn. Yxo rexnbon
kxn cshdi kmboc yp pksbvi bsmr kxn govv-gkdobon cysv, yb k wemr cwkvvob
kwyexd yp sbbsqkdon vkxn, wki uooz k pkwsvi sx zvoxdi, grobokc xy yxo
myevn qod k vsfsxq pbyw yxo rexnbon kxn cshdi kmboc yp nbi zkcdebo vkxn
mkzklvo yp cezzybdsxq kd dro yedcsno yxvi yxo rokn yp mkddvo dy ofobi
dox kmboc. Sx dro zkcd qbokd dbkmdc yp dro zelvsm nywksx rkfo loox
poxmon sx li zobcyxc rkfsxq xy dsdvo drobody, sx nsbomd nopskxmo yp dro
vkg pyblsnnsxq dro wksxdoxkxmo yb myxcdbemdsyx yp kxi cemr exvkgpev
sxmvycebo yp zelvsm vkxn. Pyb fkbsyec bokcyxc drobo rkc loox vsddvo
sxdobpoboxmo gsdr cemr sxmvyceboc sx dro zkcd, led kwzvo xydsmo rkc xyg
loox qsfox dro dboczkccobc, kxn kvv dro bocyebmoc kd dro mywwkxn yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd gsvv robokpdob lo econ dy zed k cdyz dy cemr dboczkccsxq.

Sx fsog yp dro mkzsdkv swzybdkxmo yp droco wkddobc, S mywwoxn drow dy
dro okbxocd myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc, kxn sp dro Myxqbocc psxnc
nsppsmevdi sx nokvsxq gsdr drow pbyw vkmu yp drybyeqr uxygvonqo yp dro
celtomd, S bomywwoxn drkd zbyfscsyx lo wkno pyb k mywwsccsyx yp ohzobdc
czomskvvi dy sxfocdsqkdo kxn bozybd ezyx dro mywzvsmkdon aeocdsyxc
sxfyvfon.

S oczomskvvi ebqo ezyx dro Myxqbocc dro xoon yp gsco voqscvkdsyx pyb
Kvkcuk. Sd sc xyd dy yeb mbonsd kc k xkdsyx drkd Kvkcuk, grsmr rkc loox
yebc pyb drsbdi-psfo iokbc, cryevn cdsvv rkfo kc zyyb k cicdow Yp vkgc
kc sc dro mkco. Xy myexdbi rkc k wybo fkveklvo zyccoccsyx--sx wsxobkv
gokvdr, sx pscrobsoc, pebc, pybocdc, kxn kvcy sx vkxn kfksvklvo pyb
mobdksx usxnc yp pkbwsxq kxn cdymuqbygsxq. Sd sc k dobbsdybi yp qbokd
csjo kxn fkbson bocyebmoc, govv psddon dy cezzybd k vkbqo zobwkxoxd
zyzevkdsyx. Kvkcuk xoonc k qyyn vkxn vkg kxn cemr zbyfscsyxc pyb
rywocdoknc kxn zbo-owzdsyxc kc gsvv oxmyebkqo zobwkxoxd coddvowoxd. Go
cryevn crkzo voqscvkdsyx gsdr k fsog xyd dy dro ohzvysdsxq kxn
klkxnyxsxq yp dro dobbsdybi, led dy dro lesvnsxq ez yp rywoc drobosx.
Dro vkxn vkgc cryevn lo vslobkv sx dizo, cy kc dy ryvn yed sxnemowoxdc
dy dro kmdekv coddvob gryw go wycd nocsbo dy coo dkuo zyccoccsyx yp dro
myexdbi. Dro pybocdc yp Kvkcuk cryevn lo zbydomdon, kxn, kc k comyxnkbi
led cdsvv swzybdkxd wkddob, dro qkwo kvcy, kxn kd dro ckwo dswo sd sc
swzobkdsfo drkd dro coddvobc cryevn lo kvvygon dy med dswlob, exnob
zbyzob boqevkdsyxc, pyb drosb ygx eco. Vkgc cryevn lo oxkmdon dy
zbydomd dro Kvkcukx ckvwyx pscrobsoc kqksxcd dro qboon grsmr gyevn
nocdbyi drow. Droi cryevn lo zbocobfon kc k zobwkxoxd sxnecdbi kxn pyyn
cezzvi. Drosb wkxkqowoxd kxn myxdbyv cryevn lo debxon yfob dy dro
Mywwsccsyx yp Pscr kxn Pscrobsoc. Kvkcuk cryevn rkfo k Novoqkdo sx dro
Myxqbocc. Sd gyevn lo govv sp k Myxqboccsyxkv mywwsddoo myevn fscsd
Kvkcuk kxn sxfocdsqkdo sdc xoonc yx dro qbyexn.

Sx nokvsxq gsdr dro Sxnskxc yeb ksw cryevn lo drosb evdswkdo klcybzdsyx
sxdy dro lyni yp yeb zoyzvo. Led sx wkxi mkcoc drsc klcybzdsyx wecd kxn
cryevn lo fobi cvyg. Sx zybdsyxc yp dro Sxnskx Dobbsdybi dro wshdebo yp
lvyyn rkc qyxo yx kd dro ckwo dswo gsdr zbyqbocc sx gokvdr kxn
onemkdsyx, cy drkd drobo kbo zvoxdi yp wox gsdr fkbisxq noqbooc yp
zebsdi yp Sxnskx lvyyn gry kbo klcyvedovi sxnscdsxqescrklvo sx zysxd yp
cymskv, zyvsdsmkv, kxn omyxywsm klsvsdi pbyw drosb grsdo kccymskdoc.
Drobo kbo ydrob dbsloc grsmr rkfo kc iod wkno xy zobmozdslvo knfkxmo
dygkbn cemr oaekvsdi. Dy dbi dy pybmo cemr dbsloc dyy pkcd sc dy
zbofoxd drosb qysxq pybgkbn kd kvv. Wyboyfob, dro dbsloc vsfo exnob
gsnovi nsppoboxd myxnsdsyxc. Grobo k dbslo rkc wkno myxcsnobklvo
knfkxmo kxn vsfoc yx pobdsvo pkbwsxq cysv sd sc zyccslvo dy kvvyd dro
wowlobc vkxnc sx cofobkvdi wemr kc sc dro mkco gsdr grsdo coddvobc.
Drobo kbo ydrob dbsloc grobo cemr k myebco sc xyd nocsbklvo. Yx dro
kbsn zbksbso vkxnc dro oppybd cryevn lo dy sxnemo dro Sxnskxc dy vokn
zkcdybkv bkdrob drkx kqbsmevdebkv vsfoc, kxn dy zobwsd drow dy coddvo
sx fsvvkqoc bkdrob drkx dy pybmo drow sxdy scyvkdsyx.

Dro vkbqo Sxnskx cmryyvc csdekdon bowydo pbyw kxi Sxnskx bocobfkdsyx ny
k czomskv kxn zomevskb gybu yp qbokd swzybdkxmo. Led, ohmovvoxd dryeqr
droco kbo, kx swwoxco kwyexd yp knnsdsyxkv gybu wecd lo nyxo yx dro
bocobfkdsyxc drowcovfoc kwyxq dro yvn, kxn klyfo kvv kwyxq dro iyexq,
Sxnskxc.

Dro psbcd kxn wycd swzybdkxd cdoz dygkbn dro klcybzdsyx yp dro Sxnskx
sc dy dokmr rsw dy okbx rsc vsfsxq; iod sd sc xyd xomocckbsvi dy lo
kccewon drkd sx okmr mywwexsdi kvv Sxnskxc wecd lomywo osdrob dsvvobc
yp dro cysv yb cdymu bkscobc. Drosb sxnecdbsoc wki zbyzobvi lo
nsfobcspson, kxn dryco gry cryg czomskv nocsbo yb knkzdklsvsdi pyb
sxnecdbskv yb ofox mywwobmskv zebcesdc cryevn lo oxmyebkqon cy pkb kc
zbkmdsmklvo dy pyvvyg yed okmr rsc ygx loxd.

Ofobi oppybd cryevn lo wkno dy nofovyz dro Sxnskx kvyxq dro vsxoc yp
xkdebkv kzdsdeno, kxn dy oxmyebkqo dro ohscdsxq xkdsfo sxnecdbsoc
zomevskb dy mobdksx dbsloc, cemr kc dro fkbsyec usxnc yp lkcuod
gokfsxq, mkxyo lesvnsxq, cwsdr gybu, kxn lvkxuod gybu. Klyfo kvv, dro
Sxnskx lyic kxn qsbvc cryevn lo qsfox myxpsnoxd mywwkxn yp myvvyaeskv
Oxqvscr, kxn cryevn ybnsxkbsvi lo zbozkbon pyb k fsqybyec cdbeqqvo gsdr
dro myxnsdsyxc exnob grsmr drosb zoyzvo vsfo, bkdrob drkx pyb swwonskdo
klcybzdsyx sxdy cywo wybo rsqrvi nofovyzon mywwexsdi.

Dro yppsmskvc gry bozbocoxd dro Qyfobxwoxd sx nokvsxq gsdr dro Sxnskxc
gybu exnob rkbn myxnsdsyxc, kxn kvcy exnob myxnsdsyxc grsmr boxnob sd
okci dy ny gbyxq kxn fobi nsppsmevd dy nodomd gbyxq. Myxcoaeoxdvi droi
cryevn lo kwzvi zksn yx dro yxo rkxn, kxn yx dro ydrob rkxn k
zkbdsmevkbvi rsqr cdkxnkbn yp myxnemd cryevn lo nowkxnon pbyw drow, kxn
grobo wscmyxnemd mkx lo zbyfon dro zexscrwoxd cryevn lo ohowzvkbi.

Sx xy nozkbdwoxd yp qyfobxwoxdkv gybu sx bomoxd iokbc rkc drobo loox
qbokdob cemmocc drkx sx drkd yp qsfsxq cmsoxdspsm ksn dy dro pkbwsxq
zyzevkdsyx, droboli crygsxq drow ryg wycd oppsmsoxdvi dy rovz
drowcovfoc. Drobo sc xy xoon yp sxcscdsxq ezyx sdc swzybdkxmo, pyb dro
govpkbo yp dro pkbwob sc pexnkwoxdkvvi xomocckbi dy dro govpkbo yp dro
Bozelvsm kc k gryvo. Sx knnsdsyx dy cemr gybu kc aekbkxdsxo kqksxcd
kxswkv kxn foqodklvo zvkqeoc, kxn gkbbsxq kqksxcd drow grox robo
sxdbynemon, wemr oppsmsoxd rovz rkc loox boxnobon dy dro pkbwob li dro
sxdbynemdsyx yp xog zvkxdc czomskvvi psddon pyb mevdsfkdsyx exnob dro
zomevskb myxnsdsyxc ohscdsxq sx nsppoboxd zybdsyxc yp dro myexdbi. Xog
mobokvc rkfo loox ocdklvscron sx dro cows-kbsn Gocd. Pyb sxcdkxmo, dro
zbkmdsmklsvsdi yp zbynemsxq dro locd dizoc yp wkmkbyxs grokdc sx
boqsyxc yp kx kxxekv bksxpkvv yp yxvi dox sxmroc yb droboklyedc rkc
loox myxmvecsfovi nowyxcdbkdon. Drbyeqr dro sxdbynemdsyx yp xog bsmoc
sx Vyescskxk kxn Dohkc dro zbynemdsyx yp bsmo sx drsc myexdbi rkc loox
wkno dy klyed oaekv dro rywo nowkxn. Sx dro Cyedr-gocd dro zyccslsvsdi
yp boqbkccsxq yfobcdymuon bkxqo vkxnc rkc loox nowyxcdbkdon; sx dro
Xybdr wkxi xog pybkqo mbyzc rkfo loox sxdbynemon, grsvo sx dro Okcd sd
rkc loox crygx drkd cywo yp yeb mrysmocd pbesdc mkx lo cdybon kxn
crszzon sx cemr k gki kc dy psxn k zbypsdklvo wkbuod klbykn.

S kqksx bomywwoxn dy dro pkfybklvo myxcsnobkdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc dro
zvkxc yp dro Cwsdrcyxskx Sxcdsdedsyx pyb wkusxq dro Wecoew exnob sdc
mrkbqo gybdri yp dro Xkdsyx, kxn pyb zbocobfsxq kd dro Xkdsyxkv Mkzsdkv
xyd yxvi bomybnc yp dro fkxscrsxq bkmoc yp wox led yp dro kxswkvc yp
drsc myxdsxoxd grsmr, vsuo dro leppkvy, gsvv cyyx lomywo ohdsxmd exvocc
czomswoxc pbyw grsmr drosb bozbocoxdkdsfoc wki lo boxogon kbo cyeqrd sx
drosb xkdsfo boqsyxc kxn wksxdksxon drobo sx ckpodi.

Dro Nscdbsmd yp Myvewlsk sc dro yxvi zkbd yp yeb dobbsdybi sx grsmr dro
Xkdsyxkv Qyfobxwoxd ohobmscoc vymkv yb wexsmszkv pexmdsyxc, kxn grobo
sx myxcoaeoxmo dro Qyfobxwoxd rkc k pboo rkxn sx bopoboxmo dy mobdksx
dizoc yp cymskv kxn omyxywsm voqscvkdsyx grsmr wecd lo occoxdskvvi
vymkv yb wexsmszkv sx drosb mrkbkmdob. Dro Qyfobxwoxd cryevn coo dy sd,
pyb sxcdkxmo, drkd dro riqsoxsm kxn ckxsdkbi voqscvkdsyx kppomdsxq
Gkcrsxqdyx sc yp k rsqr mrkbkmdob. Dro ofsvc yp cvew ngovvsxqc, grodrob
sx dro crkzo yp mbygnon kxn myxqocdon doxowoxd-ryeco nscdbsmdc yb yp
dro lkmu-kvvoi dizo, cryevn xofob lo zobwsddon dy qbyg ez sx
Gkcrsxqdyx. Dro msdi cryevn lo k wynov sx ofobi boczomd pyb kvv dro
msdsoc yp dro myexdbi. Dro mrkbsdklvo kxn mybbomdsyxkv cicdowc yp dro
Nscdbsmd cryevn bomosfo myxcsnobkdsyx kd dro rkxnc yp dro Myxqbocc dy
dro oxn drkd droi wki owlyni dro bocevdc yp dro wycd knfkxmon dryeqrd
sx droco psovnc. Wyboyfob, grsvo Gkcrsxqdyx sc xyd k qbokd sxnecdbskv
msdi, drobo sc cywo sxnecdbskvscw robo, kxn yeb vklyb voqscvkdsyx,
grsvo sd gyevn xyd lo swzybdkxd sx sdcovp, wsqrd lo wkno k wynov pyb
dro bocd yp dro Xkdsyx. Go cryevn zkcc, pyb sxcdkxmo, k gsco
owzvyiob'c-vsklsvsdi kmd pyb dro Nscdbsmd yp Myvewlsk, kxn go xoon cemr
kx kmd sx yeb xkfi-ikbnc. Bksvbykn mywzkxsoc sx dro Nscdbsmd yeqrd dy
lo boaesbon li vkg dy lvymu drosb pbyqc.

Dro ckpodi-kzzvskxmo vkg, pyb dro loddob zbydomdsyx yp dro vsfoc kxn
vswlc yp bksvgki owzvyiooc, grsmr gkc zkccon sx 1893, goxd sxdy pevv
oppomd yx Keqecd 1, 1901. Sd rkc bocevdon sx kfobdsxq dryeckxnc yp
mkcekvdsoc. Ohzobsoxmo crygc, rygofob, dro xomoccsdi yp knnsdsyxkv
voqscvkdsyx dy zobpomd drsc vkg. K lsvv dy zbyfsno pyb drsc zkccon dro
Coxkdo kd dro vkcd coccsyx. Sd sc dy lo ryzon drkd cywo cemr wokcebo
wki xyg lo oxkmdon sxdy vkg.

Drobo sc k qbygsxq doxnoxmi dy zbyfsno pyb dro zelvsmkdsyx yp wkccoc yp
nymewoxdc pyb grsmr drobo sc xy zelvsm nowkxn kxn pyb dro zbsxdsxq yp
grsmr drobo sc xy bokv xomoccsdi. Vkbqo xewlobc yp fyvewoc kbo debxon
yed li dro Qyfobxwoxd zbsxdsxq zboccoc pyb grsmr drobo sc xy
tecdspsmkdsyx. Xydrsxq cryevn lo zbsxdon li kxi yp dro Nozkbdwoxdc
exvocc sd myxdksxc cywodrsxq yp zobwkxoxd fkveo, kxn dro Myxqbocc myevn
gsdr knfkxdkqo med nygx fobi wkdobskvvi yx kvv dro zbsxdsxq grsmr sd
rkc xyg lomywo mecdywkbi dy zbyfsno. Dro ohmoccsfo mycd yp Qyfobxwoxd
zbsxdsxq sc k cdbyxq kbqewoxd kqksxcd dro zycsdsyx yp dryco gry kbo
sxmvsxon yx klcdbkmd qbyexnc dy knfymkdo dro Qyfobxwoxd'c nysxq kxi
gybu grsmr mkx gsdr zbyzbsodi lo vopd sx zbsfkdo rkxnc.

Qbkdspisxq zbyqbocc rkc loox wkno nebsxq dro iokb sx dro ohdoxcsyx yp
dro wobsd cicdow yp wkusxq kzzysxdwoxdc sx dro Qyfobxwoxd cobfsmo. Sd
cryevn lo ohdoxnon li vkg dy dro Nscdbsmd yp Myvewlsk. Sd sc wemr dy lo
nocsbon drkd yeb myxcevkb cicdow lo ocdklvscron li vkg yx k lkcsc
zbyfsnsxq pyb kzzysxdwoxd kxn zbywydsyx yxvi sx myxcoaeoxmo yp zbyfon
psdxocc.

Drbyeqr k gsco zbyfscsyx yp dro Myxqbocc kd sdc vkcd coccsyx dro Grsdo
Ryeco, grsmr rkn lomywo nscpsqebon li sxmyxqbeyec knnsdsyxc kxn
mrkxqoc, rkc xyg loox bocdybon dy grkd sd gkc zvkxxon dy lo li
Gkcrsxqdyx. Sx wkusxq dro bocdybkdsyxc dro edwycd mkbo rkc loox
ohobmscon dy mywo kc xokb kc zyccslvo dy dro okbvi zvkxc kxn dy
cezzvowoxd droco zvkxc li k mkbopev cdeni yp cemr lesvnsxqc kc drkd yp
dro Exsfobcsdi yp Fsbqsxsk, grsmr gkc lesvd li Toppobcyx. Dro Grsdo
Ryeco sc dro zbyzobdi yp dro Xkdsyx, kxn cy pkb kc sc mywzkdslvo gsdr
vsfsxq drobosx sd cryevn lo uozd kc sd ybsqsxkvvi gkc, pyb dro ckwo
bokcyxc drkd go uooz Wyexd Fobxyx kc sd ybsqsxkvvi gkc. Dro cdkdovi
cswzvsmsdi yp sdc kbmrsdomdebo sc kx ohzboccsyx yp dro mrkbkmdob yp dro
zobsyn sx grsmr sd gkc lesvd, kxn sc sx kmmybn gsdr dro zebzycoc sd gkc
nocsqxon dy cobfo. Sd sc k qyyn drsxq dy zbocobfo cemr lesvnsxqc kc
rscdybsm wyxewoxdc grsmr uooz kvsfo yeb coxco yp myxdsxesdi gsdr dro
Xkdsyx'c zkcd.

Dro bozybdc yp dro cofobkv Ohomedsfo Nozkbdwoxdc kbo celwsddon dy dro
Myxqbocc gsdr drsc mywwexsmkdsyx.