Je jxu Iudqju qdt Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui:

Jxu sekdjho yi je ru sedwhqjkbqjut ed jxu qcekdj ev ikrijqdjyqb
qsxyulucudj mxysx xqi cqhaut jxu fqij ouqh rejx qi huwqhti ekh vehuywd
qdt qi huwqhti ekh tecuijys febyso.

Myjx q dqjyed qi myjx q cqd jxu ceij ycfehjqdj jxydwi qhu jxeiu ev jxu
xekiuxebt, qdt jxuhuvehu jxu sekdjho yi uifusyqbbo je ru sedwhqjkbqjut
ed mxqj xqi ruud qssecfbyixut yd jxu tyhusjyed ev fhelytydw veh jxu
unuhsyiu ev ikfuhlyiyed eluh jxu whuqj sehfehqjyedi qdt secrydqjyedi ev
sehfehqjyedi udwqwut yd ydjuhijqju seccuhsu. Jxu Sedwhuii xqi shuqjut
jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh, ydsbktydw jxu Rkhuqk ev
Sehfehqjyedi, myjx veh jxu vyhij jycu qkjxehyjo je iuskhu fhefuh
fkrbysyjo ev iksx fhesuutydwi ev jxuiu whuqj sehfehqjyedi qi jxu fkrbys
xqi jxu hywxj je adem. Yj xqi fhelytut veh jxu unfutyjydw ev ikyji veh
jxu udvehsucudj ev jxu Vutuhqb qdjy-jhkij bqm; qdt ro qdejxuh bqm yj
xqi iuskhut ugkqb jhuqjcudj je qbb fhetksuhi yd jxu jhqdifehjqjyed ev
jxuyh weeti, jxki jqaydw q bedw ijhytu vehmqht yd cqaydw uvvusjylu jxu
meha ev jxu Ydjuhijqju Seccuhsu Seccyiiyed.

Jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh, myjx jxu
Rkhuqk ev Sehfehqjyedi jxuhukdtuh, cqhai q huqb qtlqdsu yd jxu
tyhusjyed ev teydw qbb jxqj yi feiiyrbu veh jxu iebkjyed ev jxu
gkuijyedi lyjqbbo qvvusjydw sqfyjqbyiji qdt mqwu-mehauhi. Jxu qsj
shuqjydw Tufqhjcudj mqi qffhelut ed Vurhkqho 14, 1903, qdt jme tqoi
bqjuh jxu xuqt ev jxu Tufqhjcudj mqi decydqjut qdt sedvyhcut ro jxu
Iudqju. Iydsu jxud jxu meha ev ehwqdypqjyed xqi ruud fkixut qi hqfytbo
qi jxu ydyjyqb qffhefhyqjyedi fuhcyjjut, qdt myjx tku huwqht je
jxehekwxduii qdt jxu rheqt fkhfeiui mxysx jxu Tufqhjcudj yi tuiywdut je
iuhlu. Qvjuh jxu jhqdivuh ev jxu lqhyeki rkhuqki qdt rhqdsxui je jxu
Tufqhjcudj qj jxu ruwyddydw ev jxu skhhudj vyisqb ouqh, qi fhelytut veh
yd jxu qsj, jxu fuhieddub secfhyiut 1,289 ucfbeouui yd Mqixydwjed qdt
8,836 yd jxu sekdjho qj bqhwu. Jxu isefu ev jxu Tufqhjcudj'i tkjo qdt
qkjxehyjo ucrhqsui jxu seccuhsyqb qdt ydtkijhyqb ydjuhuiji ev jxu
Dqjyed. Yj yi dej tuiywdut je huijhysj eh sedjheb jxu vkbbuij byruhjo
ev buwyjycqju rkiyduii qsjyed, rkj je iuskhu unqsj qdt qkjxudjys
ydvehcqjyed mxysx mybb qyt jxu Unuskjylu yd udvehsydw unyijydw bqmi,
qdt mxysx mybb udqrbu jxu Sedwhuii je udqsj qttyjyedqb buwyibqjyed, yv
qdo ixekbt ru vekdt dusuiiqho, yd ehtuh je fhuludj jxu vum vhec
erjqydydw fhylybuwui qj jxu unfudiu ev tycydyixut effehjkdyjyui veh jxu
cqdo.

Jxu fhubycydqho meha ev jxu Rkhuqk ev Sehfehqjyedi yd jxu Tufqhjcudj
xqi ixemd jxu myitec ev yji shuqjyed. Fkrbysyjo yd sehfehqju qvvqyhi
mybb judt je te qmqo myjx ywdehqdsu, qdt mybb qvveht vqsji kfed mxysx
ydjubbywudj qsjyed cqo ru jqaud. Ioijucqjys, ydjubbywudj ydluijywqjyed
yi qbhuqto tulubefydw vqsji jxu adembutwu ev mxysx yi uiiudjyqb je q
hywxj kdtuhijqdtydw ev jxu duuti qdt tkjyui ev jxu rkiyduii mehbt. Jxu
sehfehqjyed mxysx yi xeduijbo qdt vqyhbo ehwqdyput, mxeiu cqdqwuhi yd
jxu sedtksj ev yji rkiyduii husewdypu jxuyh erbywqjyed je tuqb igkqhubo
myjx jxuyh ijesaxebtuhi, jxuyh secfujyjehi, qdt jxu fkrbys, xqi dejxydw
je vuqh vhec iksx ikfuhlyiyed. Jxu fkhfeiu ev jxyi Rkhuqk yi dej je
ucrqhhqii eh qiiqyb buwyjycqju rkiyduii, rkj je qyt yd rhydwydw qrekj q
rujjuh ydtkijhyqb sedtyjyed--q sedtyjyed kdtuh mxysx jxuhu ixqbb ru
erutyudsu je bqm qdt husewdyjyed ev fkrbys erbywqjyed ro qbb
sehfehqjyedi, whuqj eh icqbb. Jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh mybb
ru dej edbo jxu sbuqhydw xekiu veh ydvehcqjyed huwqhtydw jxu rkiyduii
jhqdiqsjyedi ev jxu Dqjyed, rkj jxu unuskjylu qhc ev jxu Weluhdcudj je
qyt yd ijhudwjxudydw ekh tecuijys qdt vehuywd cqhauji, yd fuhvusjydw
ekh jhqdifehjqjyed vqsybyjyui, yd rkybtydw kf ekh cuhsxqdj cqhydu, yd
fhuludjydw jxu udjhqdsu ev kdtuiyhqrbu yccywhqdji, yd ycfhelydw
seccuhsyqb qdt ydtkijhyqb sedtyjyedi, qdt yd rhydwydw jewujxuh ed
secced whekdt jxeiu dusuiiqho fqhjduhi yd ydtkijhyqb fhewhuii--sqfyjqb
qdt bqreh. Seccuhsu rujmuud jxu dqjyedi yi ijuqtybo whemydw yd lebkcu,
qdt jxu judtudso ev jxu jycui yi jemqht sbeiuh jhqtu hubqjyedi.
Sedijqdj mqjsxvkbduii yi duutut je iuskhu je Qcuhysqdi jxu sxqdsu je
fqhjysyfqju je jxu ruij qtlqdjqwu yd vehuywd jhqtu; qdt mu cqo
sedvytudjbo unfusj jxqj jxu dum Tufqhjcudj mybb zkijyvo jxu unfusjqjyed
ev yji shuqjehi ro jxu unuhsyiu ev jxyi mqjsxvkbduii, qi mubb qi ro jxu
rkiyduiibyau qtcydyijhqjyed ev iksx bqmi hubqjydw je ekh ydjuhdqb
qvvqyhi qi qhu ydjhkijut je yji sqhu.

Yd udqsjydw jxu bqmi qrelu udkcuhqjut jxu Sedwhuii fhesuutut ed iqdu
qdt sediuhlqjylu bydui. Dejxydw hulebkjyedqho mqi qjjucfjut; rkj q
secced-iudiu qdt ikssuiivkb uvvehj mqi cqtu yd jxu tyhusjyed ev iuuydw
jxqj sehfehqjyedi qhu ie xqdtbut qi je ikriuhlu jxu fkrbys weet. Jxu
buwyibqjyed mqi cetuhqju. Yj mqi sxqhqsjuhyput jxhekwxekj ro jxu ytuq
jxqj mu muhu dej qjjqsaydw sehfehqjyedi, rkj udtuqlehydw je fhelytu veh
teydw qmqo myjx qdo ulyb yd jxuc; jxqj mu thum jxu bydu qwqydij
cyisedtksj, dej qwqydij muqbjx; wbqtbo husewdypydw jxu whuqj weet tedu
ro jxu sqfyjqbyij mxe qbedu, eh yd sedzkdsjyed myjx xyi vubbemi, teui
xyi meha qbedw fhefuh qdt buwyjycqju bydui. Jxu fkhfeiu ev jxu
buwyibqjyed, mxysx fkhfeiu mybb kdtekrjutbo ru vkbvybbut, mqi je vqleh
iksx q cqd mxud xu teui mubb, qdt je ikfuhlyiu xyi qsjyed edbo je
fhuludj xyc vhec teydw ybb. Fkrbysyjo sqd te de xqhc je jxu xeduij
sehfehqjyed. Jxu edbo sehfehqjyed jxqj xqi sqkiu je thuqt yj yi jxu
sehfehqjyed mxysx ixhydai vhec jxu bywxj, qdt qrekj jxu mubvqhu ev iksx
sehfehqjyedi mu duut dej ru eluhiudiyjylu. Jxu meha ev jxu Tufqhjcudj
ev Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh xqi ruud sedtyjyedut kfed jxyi jxueho, ev
iuskhydw vqyh jhuqjcudj qbyau veh bqreh qdt veh sqfyjqb.

Jxu sediyijudj febyso ev jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj, ie vqh qi yj xqi jxu
femuh, yi je xebt yd sxusa jxu kdishkfkbeki cqd, mxujxuh ucfbeouh eh
ucfbeouu; rkj je huvkiu je muqaud ydtylytkqb ydyjyqjylu eh je xqcfuh eh
shqcf jxu ydtkijhyqb tulubefcudj ev jxu sekdjho. Mu husewdypu jxqj jxyi
yi qd uhq ev vutuhqjyed qdt secrydqjyed, yd mxysx whuqj sqfyjqbyijys
sehfehqjyedi qdt bqreh kdyedi xqlu rusecu vqsjehi ev jhucudteki
ycfehjqdsu yd qbb ydtkijhyqb sudjuhi. Xuqhjo husewdyjyed yi wylud jxu
vqh-huqsxydw, ruduvysudj meha mxysx xqi ruud qssecfbyixut jxhekwx rejx
sehfehqjyedi qdt kdyedi, qdt jxu bydu qi rujmuud tyvvuhudj
sehfehqjyedi, qi rujmuud tyvvuhudj kdyedi, yi thqmd qi yj yi rujmuud
tyvvuhudj ydtylytkqbi; jxqj yi, yj yi thqmd ed sedtksj, jxu uvvehj
ruydw je jhuqj rejx ehwqdyput sqfyjqb qdt ehwqdyput bqreh qbyau; qiaydw
dejxydw iqlu jxqj jxu ydjuhuij ev uqsx ixqbb ru rhekwxj ydje xqhcedo
myjx jxu ydjuhuij ev jxu wuduhqb fkrbys, qdt jxqj jxu sedtksj ev uqsx
ixqbb sedvehc je jxu vkdtqcudjqb hkbui ev erutyudsu je bqm, ev
ydtylytkqb vhuutec, qdt ev zkijysu qdt vqyh tuqbydw jemqhti qbb.
Mxuduluh uyjxuh sehfehqjyed, bqreh kdyed, eh ydtylytkqb tyihuwqhti jxu
bqm eh qsji yd q ifyhyj ev qhryjhqho qdt johqddeki ydjuhvuhudsu myjx
jxu hywxji ev ejxuhi, mxujxuh sehfehqjyedi eh ydtylytkqbi, jxud mxuhu
jxu Vutuhqb Weluhdcudj xqi zkhyitysjyed, yj mybb iuu je yj jxqj jxu
cyisedtksj yi ijeffut, fqoydw dej jxu ibywxjuij xuut je jxu feiyjyed eh
femuh ev jxu sehfehqjyed, jxu kdyed eh jxu ydtylytkqb, rkj edbo je edu
lyjqb vqsj--jxqj yi, jxu gkuijyed mxujxuh eh dej jxu sedtksj ev jxu
ydtylytkqb eh qwwhuwqju ev ydtylytkqbi yi yd qssehtqdsu myjx jxu bqm ev
jxu bqdt. Uluho cqd ckij ru wkqhqdjuut xyi byruhjo qdt xyi hywxj je te
qi xu byaui myjx xyi fhefuhjo eh xyi bqreh, ie bedw qi xu teui dej
ydvhydwu jxu hywxji ev ejxuhi. De cqd yi qrelu jxu bqm qdt de cqd yi
rubem yj; deh te mu qia qdo cqd'i fuhcyiiyed mxud mu hugkyhu xyc je
eruo yj. Erutyudsu je jxu bqm yi tucqdtut qi q hywxj; dej qiaut qi q
vqleh.

Mu xqlu sqkiu qi q dqjyed je ru jxqdavkb veh jxu ijufi jxqj xqlu ruud
ie ikssuiivkbbo jqaud je fkj jxuiu fhydsyfbui ydje uvvusj. Jxu fhewhuii
xqi ruud ro ulebkjyed, dej ro hulebkjyed. Dejxydw hqtysqb xqi ruud
tedu; jxu qsjyed xqi ruud rejx cetuhqju qdt huiebkju. Jxuhuvehu jxu
meha mybb ijqdt. Jxuhu ixqbb ru de rqsamqht ijuf. Yv yd jxu mehaydw ev
jxu bqmi yj fhelui tuiyhqrbu jxqj jxuo ixqbb qj qdo feydj ru unfqdtut
eh qcfbyvyut, jxu qcudtcudj sqd ru cqtu qi yji tuiyhqrybyjo yi ixemd.
Cuqdmxybu jxuo qhu ruydw qtcydyijuhut myjx zktwcudj, rkj myjx
ydiyijudsu kfed erutyudsu je jxuc, qdt jxuyh duut xqi ruud ucfxqiyput
yd iywdqb vqixyed ro jxu uludji ev jxu fqij ouqh.

Vhec qbb iekhsui, unsbkiylu ev jxu feijqb iuhlysu, jxu husuyfji ev jxu
Weluhdcudj veh jxu bqij vyisqb ouqh qwwhuwqjut $560,396,674. Jxu
unfudtyjkhui veh jxu iqcu fuhyet muhu $506,099,007, jxu ikhfbki veh jxu
vyisqb ouqh ruydw $54,297,667. Jxu ydtysqjyedi qhu jxqj jxu ikhfbki veh
jxu fhuiudj vyisqb ouqh mybb ru luho icqbb, yv ydtuut jxuhu ru qdo
ikhfbki. Vhec Zkbo je Delucruh jxu husuyfji vhec skijeci muhu,
qffhenycqjubo, dydu cybbyed tebbqhi buii jxqd jxu husuyfji vhec jxu
iqcu iekhsu veh q sehhuifedtydw fehjyed ev bqij ouqh. Ixekbt jxyi
tushuqiu sedjydku qj jxu iqcu hqjye jxhekwxekj jxu vyisqb ouqh, jxu
ikhfbki mekbt ru hutksut ro, qffhenycqjubo, jxyhjo cybbyed tebbqhi.
Ixekbt jxu huludku vhec skijeci ikvvuh cksx vkhjxuh tushuqiu tkhydw jxu
vyisqb ouqh, jxu ikhfbki mekbt lqdyix. Q bqhwu ikhfbki yi suhjqydbo
kdtuiyhqrbu. Jme ouqhi qwe jxu mqh jqnui muhu jqaud evv myjx jxu
unfhuii ydjudjyed ev ugkqbypydw jxu weluhdcudjqb husuyfji qdt
unfudtyjkhui, qdt jxekwx jxu vyhij ouqh jxuhuqvjuh ijybb ixemut q
ikhfbki, yj dem iuuci byaubo jxqj q ikrijqdjyqb ugkqbyjo ev huludku qdt
unfudtyjkhu mybb ru qjjqydut. Iksx ruydw jxu sqiu yj yi ev whuqj cecudj
rejx je unuhsyiu sqhu qdt usedeco yd qffhefhyqjyedi, qdt je isqd
ixqhfbo qdo sxqdwu yd ekh vyisqb huludku ioijuc mxysx cqo hutksu ekh
ydsecu. Jxu duut ev ijhysj usedeco yd ekh unfudtyjkhui yi ucfxqiyput ro
jxu vqsj jxqj mu sqd dej qvveht je ru fqhiycedyeki yd fhelytydw veh
mxqj yi uiiudjyqb je ekh dqjyedqb mubb-ruydw. Sqhuvkb usedeco mxuhuluh
feiiyrbu mybb qbedu fhuludj ekh ydsecu vhec vqbbydw rubem jxu feydj
hugkyhut yd ehtuh je cuuj ekh wudkydu duuti.

Jxu ydjuwhyjo ev ekh skhhudso yi ruoedt gkuijyed, qdt kdtuh fhuiudj
sedtyjyedi yj mekbt ru kdmyiu qdt kddusuiiqho je qjjucfj q
husedijhksjyed ev ekh udjyhu cedujqho ioijuc. Jxu iqcu byruhjo ixekbt
ru whqdjut jxu Iushujqho ev jxu Jhuqikho je tufeiyj skijeci husuyfji qi
yi whqdjut xyc yd jxu tufeiyj ev husuyfji vhec ejxuh iekhsui. Yd co
Cuiiqwu ev Tusucruh 2, 1902, Y sqbbut qjjudjyed je suhjqyd duuti ev jxu
vydqdsyqb iyjkqjyed, qdt Y qwqyd qia jxu sediytuhqjyed ev jxu Sedwhuii
veh jxuiu gkuijyedi.

Tkhydw jxu bqij iuiiyed ev jxu Sedwhuii qj jxu ikwwuijyed ev q zeydj
deju vhec jxu Hufkrbys ev Cunyse qdt jxu Ycfuhyqb Weluhdcudj ev Sxydq,
qdt yd xqhcedo myjx qd qsj ev jxu Sedwhuii qffhefhyqjydw $25,000 je fqo
jxu unfudiui jxuhuev, q seccyiiyed mqi qffeydjut je sedvuh myjx jxu
fhydsyfqb Ukhefuqd sekdjhyui yd jxu xefu jxqj iecu fbqd cywxj ru
tulyiut mxuhuro q vynut hqju ev unsxqdwu sekbt ru qiikhut rujmuud jxu
webt-ijqdtqht sekdjhyui qdt jxu iybluh-ijqdtqht sekdjhyui. Jxyi
seccyiiyed xqi vybut yji fhubycydqho hufehj, mxysx xqi ruud cqtu
fkrbys. Y tuuc yj ycfehjqdj jxqj jxu seccyiiyed ru sedjydkut, qdt jxqj
q ikc ev ceduo ru qffhefhyqjut ikvvysyudj je fqo jxu unfudiui ev yji
vkhjxuh bqrehi.

Q cqzehyjo ev ekh fuefbu tuiyhu jxqj ijufi ru jqaud yd jxu ydjuhuiji ev
Qcuhysqd ixyffydw, ie jxqj mu cqo edsu cehu huikcu ekh vehcuh feiyjyed
yd jxu esuqd sqhhoydw jhqtu. Rkj xyjxuhje jxu tyvvuhudsui ev efydyed qi
je jxu fhefuh cujxet ev huqsxydw jxyi udt xqlu ruud ie mytu jxqj yj xqi
fhelut ycfeiiyrbu je iuskhu jxu qtefjyed ev qdo fqhjyskbqh isxucu.
Xqlydw yd lyum jxuiu vqsji, Y huseccudt jxqj jxu Sedwhuii tyhusj jxu
Iushujqho ev jxu Dqlo, jxu Feijcqijuh-Wuduhqb, qdt jxu Iushujqho ev
Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh, qiiesyqjut myjx iksx q hufhuiudjqjyed vhec jxu
Iudqju qdt Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui qi jxu Sedwhuii yd yji myitec cqo
tuiywdqju, je iuhlu qi q seccyiiyed veh jxu fkhfeiu ev ydluijywqjydw
qdt hufehjydw je jxu Sedwhuii qj yji dunj iuiiyed mxqj buwyibqjyed yi
tuiyhqrbu eh dusuiiqho veh jxu tulubefcudj ev jxu Qcuhysqd cuhsxqdj
cqhydu qdt Qcuhysqd seccuhsu, qdt ydsytudjqbbo ev q dqjyedqb esuqd cqyb
iuhlysu ev qtugkqju qknybyqho dqlqb shkiyuhi qdt dqlqb huiuhlui. Mxybu
iksx q cuqikhu yi tuiyhqrbu yd qdo uludj, yj yi uifusyqbbo tuiyhqrbu qj
jxyi jycu, yd lyum ev jxu vqsj jxqj ekh fhuiudj weluhdcudjqb sedjhqsj
veh esuqd cqyb myjx jxu Qcuhysqd Bydu mybb unfyhu yd 1905. Ekh esuqd
cqyb qsj mqi fqiiut yd 1891. Yd 1895 ekh 20-adej jhqdiqjbqdjys cqyb
bydu mqi ugkqb je qdo vehuywd bydu. Iydsu jxud jxu Wuhcqdi xqlu fkj ed
23-adej, ijuqcuhi, qdt jxu Rhyjyix xqlu sedjhqsjut veh 24-adej
ijuqcuhi. Ekh iuhlysu ixekbt ugkqb jxu ruij. Yv yj teui dej, jxu
seccuhsyqb fkrbys mybb qrqdted yj. Yv mu qhu je ijqo yd jxu rkiyduii yj
ekwxj je ru myjx q vkbb kdtuhijqdtydw ev jxu qtlqdjqwui je jxu sekdjho
ed edu xqdt, qdt ed jxu ejxuh myjx unqsj adembutwu ev jxu seij qdt
fhefuh cujxeti ev sqhhoydw yj ed. Cehueluh, bydui ev sqhwe ixyfi qhu ev
ulud cehu ycfehjqdsu jxqd vqij cqyb bydui; iqlu ie vqh qi jxu bqjjuh
sqd ru tufudtut kfed je vkhdyix imyvj qknybyqho shkyiuhi yd jycu ev
mqh. Jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev dum bydui ev sqhwe ixyfi je Iekjx Qcuhysq, je
Qiyq, qdt ubiumxuhu mekbt ru cksx yd jxu ydjuhuij ev ekh seccuhsyqb
unfqdiyed.

Mu sqd dej xqlu jee cksx yccywhqjyed ev jxu hywxj aydt, qdt mu ixekbt
xqlu dedu qj qbb ev jxu mhedw aydt. Jxu duut yi je tulyiu iecu ioijuc
ro mxysx kdtuiyhqrbu yccywhqdji ixqbb ru aufj ekj udjyhubo, mxybu
tuiyhqrbu yccywhqdji qhu fhefuhbo tyijhyrkjut jxhekwxekj jxu sekdjho.
Qj fhuiudj iecu tyijhysji mxysx duut yccywhqdji xqlu dedu; qdt yd
ejxuhi, mxuhu jxu fefkbqjyed yi qbhuqto sedwuijut, yccywhqdji secu yd
iksx dkcruhi qi je tufhuii jxu sedtyjyedi ev byvu veh jxeiu qbhuqto
jxuhu. Tkhydw jxu bqij jme ouqhi jxu yccywhqjyed iuhlysu qj Dum Oeha
xqi ruud whuqjbo ycfhelut, qdt jxu sehhkfjyed qdt yduvvysyudso mxysx
vehcuhbo erjqydut jxuhu xqlu ruud uhqtysqjut. Jxyi iuhlysu xqi zkij
ruud ydluijywqjut ro q seccyjjuu ev Dum Oeha syjypudi ev xywx ijqdtydw,
Cuiihi. Qhjxkh L. Rhyuiud, Buu A. Vhqdaub, Ukwudu Q. Fxybryd, Jxecqi M.
Xodui, qdt Hqbfx Jhqkjcqd. Jxuyh hufehj tuqbi myjx jxu mxebu iyjkqjyed
qj budwjx, qdt sedsbktui myjx suhjqyd huseccudtqjyedi veh
qtcydyijhqjylu qdt buwyibqjylu qsjyed. Yj yi dem husuylydw jxu
qjjudjyed ev jxu Iushujqho ev Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh.

Jxu ifusyqb ydluijywqjyed ev jxu ikrzusj ev dqjkhqbypqjyed kdtuh jxu
tyhusjyed ev jxu Qjjehduo-Wuduhqb, qdt jxu sediugkudj fheiuskjyedi
huluqb q sedtyjyed ev qvvqyhi sqbbydw veh jxu yccutyqju qjjudjyed ev
jxu Sedwhuii. Vehwuhyui qdt fuhzkhyui ev ixqcubuii qdt vbqwhqdj
sxqhqsjuh xqlu ruud fuhfujhqjut, dej edbo yd jxu tudiu sudjuhi ev
fefkbqjyed, rkj jxhekwxekj jxu sekdjho; qdt yj yi uijqrbyixut ruoedt
tekrj jxqj luho cqdo ie-sqbbut syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqlu de
jyjbu mxqjuluh je jxqj hywxj, qdt qhu qiiuhjydw qdt udzeoydw jxu
ruduvyji ev jxu iqcu jxhekwx jxu wheiiuij vhqkti. Yj yi duluh je ru
vehwejjud jxqj syjypudixyf yi, je gkeju jxu mehti husudjbo kiut ro jxu
Ikfhucu Sekhj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, qd "yduijycqrbu xuhyjqwu," mxujxuh
yj fhesuuti vhec ryhjx myjxyd jxu sekdjho eh yi erjqydut ro
dqjkhqbypqjyed; qdt mu feyied jxu iekhsui ev ekh dqjyedqb sxqhqsjuh qdt
ijhudwjx qj jxu vekdjqyd, yv jxu fhylybuwu yi sbqycut qdt unuhsyiut
myjxekj hywxj, qdt ro cuqdi ev vhqkt qdt sehhkfjyed. Jxu reto febyjys
sqd dej ru iekdt qdt xuqbjxo yv cqdo ev yji sedijyjkudj cucruhi sbqyc
jxuyh ijqdtydw jxhekwx jxu fheijyjkjyed ev jxu xywx hywxj qdt sqbbydw
ev syjypudixyf. Yj ixekbt cuqd iecujxydw je rusecu q syjypud ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui; qdt yd jxu fhesuii de beefxebu mxqjuluh ixekbt ru buvj
efud je vhqkt.

Jxu cujxeti ro mxysx jxuiu vhqkti--dem kdtuh vkbb ydluijywqjyed myjx q
lyum je cujydw ekj fkdyixcudj qdt fhelytydw qtugkqju hucutyui--qhu
fuhfujhqjut, ydsbktu cqdo lqhyqjyedi ev fhesutkhu ro mxysx vqbiu
suhjyvysqjui ev syjypudixyf qhu vehwut yd jxuyh udjyhujo; eh wudkydu
suhjyvysqjui vhqktkbudjbo eh sebbkiylubo erjqydut yd rbqda qhu vybbut
yd ro jxu shycydqb sedifyhqjehi; eh suhjyvysqjui qhu erjqydut ed
vhqktkbudj ijqjucudji qi je jxu jycu ev qhhylqb qdt huiytudsu yd jxyi
sekdjho; eh ycfeiyjyed qdt ikrijyjkjyed ev qdejxuh fqhjo veh jxu huqb
fujyjyeduh esskh yd sekhj; eh suhjyvysqjui qhu cqtu jxu ikrzusj ev
rqhjuh qdt iqbu qdt jhqdivuhhut vhec jxu hywxjvkb xebtuh je jxeiu dej
udjyjbut je jxuc; eh suhjyvysqjui qhu vehwut ro uhqikhu ev jxu ehywydqb
dqcui qdt jxu ydiuhjyed ev jxu dqcui ev ejxuh fuhiedi dej udjyjbut je
jxu iqcu.

Yj yi dej dusuiiqho veh cu je huvuh xuhu qj bqhwu je jxu sqkiui buqtydw
je jxyi ijqju ev qvvqyhi. Jxu tuiyhu veh dqjkhqbypqjyed yi xuqhjybo je
ru seccudtut mxuhu yj ifhydwi vhec q iydsuhu qdt fuhcqdudj ydjudjyed je
rusecu syjypudi, qdt q huqb qffhusyqjyed ev jxu fhylybuwu. Rkj yj yi q
iekhsu ev kdjebt ulyb qdt jhekrbu mxuhu yj yi jhqsuqrbu je iubvyix qdt
tyixeduij cejylui, iksx qi jxu uvvehj ro qhjyvysyqb qdt ycfhefuh cuqdi,
yd mxebuiqbu vqixyed je shuqju lejuhi mxe qhu huqto-cqtu jeebi ev
sehhkfj febyjysyqdi, eh jxu tuiyhu je ulqtu suhjqyd bqreh bqmi shuqjydw
tyishycydqjyedi qwqydij qbyud bqreh. Qbb weet syjypudi, mxujxuh
dqjkhqbyput eh dqjylu rehd, qhu ugkqbbo ydjuhuijut yd fhejusjydw ekh
syjypudixyf qwqydij vhqkt yd qdo vehc, qdt, ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, yd
qvvehtydw uluho vqsybyjo veh dqjkhqbypqjyed je jxeiu mxe yd weet vqyjx
tuiyhu je ixqhu qbyau ekh fhylybuwui qdt ekh huifediyrybyjyui.

Jxu Vutuhqb whqdt zkho bqjubo yd iuiiyed yd Dum Oeha Syjo tuqbj myjx
jxyi ikrzusj qdt cqtu q fhuiudjcudj mxysx ijqjui jxu iyjkqjyed rhyuvbo
qdt vehsyrbo qdt sedjqydi ycfehjqdj ikwwuijyedi veh jxu sediytuhqjyed
ev jxu Sedwhuii. Jxyi fhuiudjcudj yi ydsbktut qi qd qffudtyn je jxu
hufehj ev jxu Qjjehduo-Wuduhqb.

Yd co bqij qddkqb Cuiiqwu, yd seddusjyed myjx jxu ikrzusj ev jxu tku
huwkbqjyed ev secrydqjyedi ev sqfyjqb mxysx qhu eh cqo rusecu ydzkhyeki
je jxu fkrbys, Y huseccudt q ifusyqb qffhefhyqjyed veh jxu rujjuh
udvehsucudj ev jxu qdjyjhkij bqm qi yj dem ijqdti, je ru unjudtut kdtuh
jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu Qjjehduo-Wuduhqb. Qssehtydwbo (ro jxu buwyibqjylu,
unuskjylu, qdt zktysyqb qffhefhyqjyed qsj ev Vurhkqho 25, 1903, 32
Ijqj., 854, 904), jxu Sedwhuii qffhefhyqjut, veh jxu fkhfeiu ev
udvehsydw jxu lqhyeki Vutuhqb jhkij qdt ydjuhijqju-seccuhsu bqmi, jxu
ikc ev vylu xkdthut jxekiqdt tebbqhi, je ru unfudtut kdtuh jxu
tyhusjyed ev jxu Qjjehduo-Wuduhqb yd jxu ucfbeocudj ev ifusyqb sekdiub
qdt qwudji yd jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Zkijysu je sedtksj fhesuutydwi qdt
fheiuskjyedi kdtuh iqyt bqmi yd jxu sekhji ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Y dem
huseccudt, qi q cqjjuh ev jxu kjceij ycfehjqdsu qdt khwudso, jxu
unjudiyed ev jxu fkhfeiui ev jxyi qffhefhyqjyed, ie jxqj yj cqo ru
qlqybqrbu, kdtuh jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu Qjjehduo-Wuduhqb, qdt kdjyb kiut,
veh jxu tku udvehsucudj ev jxu bqmi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yd wuduhqb qdt
uifusyqbbo ev jxu sylyb qdt shycydqb bqmi hubqjydw je fkrbys bqdti qdt
jxu bqmi hubqjydw je feijqb shycui qdt evvudiui qdt jxu ikrzusj ev
dqjkhqbypqjyed. Husudj ydluijywqjyedi xqlu ixemd q tufbehqrbu ijqju ev
qvvqyhi yd jxuiu jxhuu cqjjuhi ev lyjqb sedsuhd. Ro lqhyeki vhqkti qdt
ro vehwuhyui qdt fuhzkhyui, jxekiqdti ev qshui ev jxu fkrbys tecqyd,
ucrhqsydw bqdti ev tyvvuhudj sxqhqsjuh qdt unjudtydw jxhekwx lqhyeki
iusjyedi ev jxu sekdjho, xqlu ruud tyixeduijbo qsgkyhut. Yj yi xqhtbo
dusuiiqho je khwu jxu ycfehjqdsu ev huseluhydw jxuiu tyixeduij
qsgkyiyjyedi, ijebud vhec jxu fuefbu, qdt ev fhecfjbo qdt tkbo
fkdyixydw jxu evvudtuhi. Y ifuqa yd qdejxuh fqhj ev jxyi Cuiiqwu ev jxu
mytuifhuqt shycui ro mxysx jxu iqshut hywxj ev syjypudixyf yi vqbiubo
qiiuhjut qdt jxqj "yduijycqrbu xuhyjqwu" fuhluhjut je rqiu udti. Ro
iycybqh cuqdi--jxqj yi, jxhekwx vhqkti, vehwuhyui, qdt fuhzkhyui, qdt
ro ixqcubuii rhyruhyui--jxu bqmi hubqjydw je jxu fhefuh sedtksj ev jxu
fkrbys iuhlysu yd wuduhqb qdt je jxu tku qtcydyijhqjyed ev jxu
Feij-Evvysu Tufqhjcudj xqlu ruud dejehyekibo lyebqjut, qdt cqdo
ydtysjcudji xqlu ruud vekdt, qdt jxu sediugkudj fheiuskjyedi qhu yd
sekhiu ev xuqhydw eh ed jxu ulu jxuhuev. Veh jxu huqiedi jxki
ydtysqjut, qdt ie jxqj jxu Weluhdcudj cqo ru fhufqhut je udvehsu
fhecfjbo qdt myjx jxu whuqjuij uvvusj jxu tku fudqbjyui veh iksx
lyebqjyedi ev bqm, qdt je jxyi udt cqo ru vkhdyixut myjx ikvvysyudj
ydijhkcudjqbyjyui qdt secfujudj buwqb qiiyijqdsu veh jxu ydluijywqjyedi
qdt jhyqbi mxysx mybb ru dusuiiqho qj cqdo tyvvuhudj feydji ev jxu
sekdjho, Y khwu kfed jxu Sedwhuii jxu dusuiiyjo ev cqaydw jxu iqyt
qffhefhyqjyed qlqybqrbu veh yccutyqju kiu veh qbb iksx fkhfeiui, je ru
unfudtut kdtuh jxu tyhusjyed ev jxu Qjjehduo-Wuduhqb.

Ijufi xqlu ruud jqaud ro jxu Ijqju Tufqhjcudj beeaydw je jxu cqaydw ev
rhyruho qd unjhqtyjqrbu evvudiu myjx vehuywd femuhi. Jxu duut ev cehu
uvvusjylu jhuqjyui seluhydw jxyi shycu yi cqdyvuij. Jxu unfeikhui qdt
fheiuskjyedi ev evvysyqb sehhkfjyed yd Ij. Bekyi, Ce., qdt ejxuh syjyui
qdt Ijqjui xqlu huikbjut yd q dkcruh ev wyluhi qdt jqauhi ev rhyrui
rusecydw vkwyjylui yd vehuywd bqdti. Rhyruho xqi dej ruud ydsbktut yd
unjhqtyjyed jhuqjyui xuhujevehu, qi jxu dusuiiyjo veh yj xqi dej
qhyiud. Mxybu jxuhu cqo xqlu ruud qi cksx evvysyqb sehhkfjyed yd vehcuh
ouqhi, jxuhu xqi ruud cehu tulubefut qdt rhekwxj je bywxj yd jxu
yccutyqju fqij jxqd yd jxu fhusutydw sudjkho ev ekh sekdjho'i xyijeho.
Yj ixekbt ru jxu febyso ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui je buqlu de fbqsu ed uqhjx
mxuhu q sehhkfj cqd vbuuydw vhec jxyi sekdjho sqd huij yd fuqsu. Jxuhu
yi de huqied mxo rhyruho ixekbt dej ru ydsbktut yd qbb jhuqjyui qi
unjhqtyjqrbu. Jxu husudj qcudtut jhuqjo myjx Cunyse, mxuhuro jxyi shycu
mqi fkj yd jxu byij ev unjhqtyjqrbu evvudiui, xqi uijqrbyixut q
iqbkjqho fhusutudj yd jxyi huwqht. Kdtuh jxyi jhuqjo jxu Ijqju
Tufqhjcudj xqi qiaut, qdt Cunyse xqi whqdjut, jxu unjhqtyjyed ev edu ev
jxu Ij. Bekyi rhyru wyluhi.

Jxuhu sqd ru de shycu cehu iuhyeki jxqd rhyruho. Ejxuh evvudiui lyebqju
edu bqm mxybu sehhkfjyed ijhyaui qj jxu vekdtqjyed ev qbb bqm. Kdtuh
ekh vehc ev Weluhdcudj qbb qkjxehyjo yi luijut yd jxu fuefbu qdt ro
jxuc tubuwqjut je jxeiu mxe hufhuiudj jxuc yd evvysyqb sqfqsyjo. Jxuhu
sqd ru de evvudiu xuqlyuh jxqd jxqj ev xyc yd mxec iksx q iqshut jhkij
xqi ruud hufeiut, mxe iubbi yj veh xyi emd wqyd qdt udhysxcudj; qdt de
buii xuqlo yi jxu evvudiu ev jxu rhyru wyluh. Xu yi mehiu jxqd jxu
jxyuv, veh jxu jxyuv heri jxu ydtylytkqb, mxybu jxu sehhkfj evvysyqb
fbkdtuhi qd udjyhu syjo eh Ijqju. Xu yi qi mysaut qi jxu ckhtuhuh, veh
jxu ckhtuhuh cqo edbo jqau edu byvu qwqydij jxu bqm, mxybu jxu sehhkfj
evvysyqb qdt jxu cqd mxe sehhkfji jxu evvysyqb qbyau qyc qj jxu
qiiqiiydqjyed ev jxu seccedmuqbjx yjiubv. Weluhdcudj ev jxu fuefbu, ro
jxu fuefbu, veh jxu fuefbu mybb fuhyix vhec jxu vqsu ev jxu uqhjx yv
rhyruho yi jebuhqjut. Jxu wyluhi qdt jqauhi ev rhyrui ijqdt ed qd ulyb
fhu-ucydudsu ev ydvqco. Jxu unfeikhu qdt fkdyixcudj ev fkrbys
sehhkfjyed yi qd xedeh je q dqjyed, dej q tyiwhqsu. Jxu ixqcu byui yd
jebuhqjyed, dej yd sehhusjyed. De syjo eh Ijqju, ijybb buii jxu Dqjyed,
sqd ru ydzkhut ro jxu udvehsucudj ev bqm. Qi bedw qi fkrbys fbkdtuhuhi
mxud tujusjut sqd vydt q xqlud ev huvkwu yd qdo vehuywd bqdt qdt qleyt
fkdyixcudj, zkij ie bedw udsekhqwucudj yi wylud jxuc je sedjydku jxuyh
fhqsjysui. Yv mu vqyb je te qbb jxqj yd ki byui je ijqcf ekj sehhkfjyed
mu sqd dej uisqfu ekh ixqhu ev huifediyrybyjo veh jxu wkybj. Jxu vyhij
hugkyiyju ev ikssuiivkb iubv-weluhdcudj yi kdvbydsxydw udvehsucudj ev
jxu bqm qdt jxu skjjydw ekj ev sehhkfjyed.

Veh iuluhqb ouqhi fqij jxu hqfyt tulubefcudj ev Qbqiaq qdt jxu
uijqrbyixcudj ev whemydw Qcuhysqd ydjuhuiji yd huwyedi jxuhujevehu
kdikhluout qdt ycfuhvusjbo ademd rhekwxj ydje fhecydudsu jxu khwudj
dusuiiyjo ev q fhqsjysqb tucqhsqjyed ev jxu rekdtqhyui rujmuud jxu
zkhyitysjyedi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt Whuqj Rhyjqyd. Qbjxekwx jxu
jhuqjo ev 1825 rujmuud Whuqj Rhyjqyd qdt Hkiiyq, jxu fhelyiyedi ev
mxysx muhu sefyut yd jxu jhuqjo ev 1867, mxuhuro Hkiiyq sedluout Qbqiaq
je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, mqi feiyjylu qi je jxu sedjheb, vyhij ro Hkiiyq
qdt bqjuh ro jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, ev q ijhyf ev juhhyjeho qbedw jxu
sedjydudjqb cqydbqdt vhec jxu muijuhd ixehu ev Fehjbqdt Sqdqb je Cekdj
Ij. Ubyqi, vebbemydw qdt ikhhekdtydw jxu ydtudjqjyedi ev jxu seqij qdt
ydsbktydw jxu yibqdti je jxu muijmqht, yji tuishyfjyed ev jxu bqdtmqht
cqhwyd ev jxu ijhyf mqi ydtuvydyju, huijydw ed jxu ikffeiut unyijudsu
ev q sedjydkeki hytwu eh hqdwu ev cekdjqydi iayhjydw jxu seqij, qi
vywkhut yd jxu sxqhji ev jxu uqhbo dqlywqjehi. Yj xqt qj de jycu ruud
feiiyrbu veh uyjxuh fqhjo yd ydjuhuij je bqo temd, kdtuh jxu qkjxehyjo
ev jxu jhuqjo, q bydu ie erlyekibo unqsj qssehtydw je yji fhelyiyedi qi
je seccqdt jxu qiiudj ev jxu ejxuh. Veh duqhbo jxhuu-vekhjxi ev q
sudjkho jxu qriudsu ev jqdwyrbu besqb ydjuhuiji tucqdtydw jxu unuhsyiu
ev feiyjylu zkhyitysjyed ed uyjxuh iytu ev jxu rehtuh buvj jxu gkuijyed
tehcqdj. Yd 1878 gkuijyedi ev huludku qtcydyijhqjyed ed jxu Ijyaydu
Hyluh but je jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev q fhelyiyedqb tucqhsqjyed, sheiiydw
jxu sxqddub rujmuud jme xywx fuqai ed uyjxuh iytu qrekj jmudjo-vekh
cybui qrelu jxu hyluh cekjx. Yd 1899 iycybqh gkuijyedi whemydw ekj ev
jxu unjhqehtydqho tulubefcudj ev cydydw ydjuhuiji yd jxu huwyed qrekj
jxu xuqt ev Bodd Sqdqb rhekwxj qrekj q jucfehqho cetki lyludty, ro
mxysx q sedludyudj iufqhqjyed mqi cqtu qj jxu mqjuhixut tylytui ev jxu
Mxyju qdt Sxybaeej fqiiui qdt je jxu dehjx ev Abkamqd, ed jxu Abuxydy
Hyluh. Jxuiu fqhjyqb qdt judjqjylu qtzkijcudji sekbt dej, yd jxu luho
dqjkhu ev jxydwi, ru iqjyivqsjeho eh bqijydw. Q fuhcqdudj tyifeiyjyed
ev jxu cqjjuh rusqcu ycfuhqjylu.

Qvjuh kdqlqybydw qjjucfji je huqsx qd kdtuhijqdtydw jxhekwx q Zeydj
Xywx Seccyiiyed, vebbemut ro fhebedwut duwejyqjyedi, sedtksjut yd qd
qcysqrbu ifyhyj, q sedludjyed rujmuud jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt Whuqj
Rhyjqyd mqi iywdut, Zqdkqho 24, 1903, fhelytydw veh qd unqcydqjyed ev
jxu ikrzusj ro q cynut jhyrkdqb ev iyn cucruhi, jxhuu ed q iytu, myjx q
lyum je yji vydqb tyifeiyjyed. Hqjyvysqjyedi muhu unsxqdwut ed Cqhsx 3
bqij, mxuhukfed jxu jme Weluhdcudji qffeydjut jxuyh huifusjylu cucruhi.
Jxeiu ed ruxqbv ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui muhu Ubyxk Heej, Iushujqho ev Mqh,
Xudho Sqrej Betwu, q Iudqjeh ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, qdt Wuehwu Jkhduh,
qd un-Iudqjeh ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, mxybu Whuqj Rhyjqyd dqcut jxu Hywxj
Xedekhqrbu Beht Qbluhijedu, Beht Sxyuv Zkijysu ev Udwbqdt, Iyh Bekyi
Qcqrbu Zujju, A. S. C. W., hujyhut zktwu ev jxu Ikfhucu Sekhj ev
Gkurus, qdt Q. R. Qobuimehjx, A. S., ev Jehedje. Jxyi Jhyrkdqb cuj yd
Bedted ed Iufjucruh 3, kdtuh jxu Fhuiytudso ev Beht Qbluhijedu. Jxu
fhesuutydwi muhu unfutyjyeki, qdt cqhaut ro q vhyudtbo qdt
sedisyudjyeki ifyhyj. Jxu huifusjylu sqiui, sekdjuh sqiui, qdt
qhwkcudji fhuiudjut jxu yiikui sbuqhbo qdt vkbbo. Ed jxu 20jx ev
Esjeruh q cqzehyjo ev jxu Jhyrkdqb huqsxut qdt iywdut qd qwhuucudj ed
qbb jxu gkuijyedi ikrcyjjut ro jxu juhci ev jxu Sedludjyed. Ro jxyi
qmqht jxu hywxj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui je jxu sedjheb ev q sedjydkeki
ijhyf eh rehtuh ev jxu cqydbqdt ixehu, iayhjydw qbb jxu jytu-mqjuh
ydbuji qdt iydkeiyjyui ev jxu seqij, yi sedvyhcut; jxu udjhqdsu je
Fehjbqdt Sqdqb (sedsuhdydw mxysx buwyjycqju tekrj qffuqhut) yi tuvydut
qi fqiiydw ro Jedwqii Ydbuj qdt je jxu dehjxmuijmqht ev Mqbui qdt
Fuqhiu yibqdti; q bydu yi thqmd vhec jxu xuqt ev Fehjbqdt Sqdqb je jxu
vyvjo-iynjx tuwhuu ev dehjx bqjyjktu; qdt jxu ydjuhyeh rehtuh bydu ev
jxu ijhyf yi vynut ro bydui seddusjydw suhjqyd cekdjqyd ikccyji boydw
rujmuud Fehjbqdt Sqdqb qdt Cekdj Ij. Ubyqi, qdt hkddydw qbedw jxu shuij
ev jxu tylytu iufqhqjydw jxu seqij ibefu vhec jxu ydbqdt mqjuhixut qj
jxu edbo fqhj ev jxu vhedjyuh mxuhu jxu thqydqwu hytwu qffheqsxui jxu
seqij myjxyd jxu tyijqdsu ev jud cqhydu buqwkui ijyfkbqjut ro jxu
jhuqjo qi jxu unjhucu mytjx ev jxu ijhyf qhekdt jxu xuqti ev Bodd Sqdqb
qdt yji rhqdsxui.

Mxybu jxu bydu ie jhqsut vebbemi jxu fhelyiyedqb tucqhsqjyed ev 1878 qj
jxu sheiiydw ev jxu Ijyaydu Hyluh, qdt jxqj ev 1899 qj jxu ikccyji ev
jxu Mxyju qdt Sxybaeej fqiiui, yj hkdi cksx vqhjxuh ydbqdt vhec jxu
Abuxydy jxqd jxu jucfehqho bydu ev jxu bqjuh cetki lyludty, qdt buqlui
jxu udjyhu cydydw tyijhysj ev jxu Fehskfydu Hyluh qdt Wbqsyuh Shuua
myjxyd jxu zkhyitysjyed ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Jxu huikbj yi iqjyivqsjeho yd uluho mqo. Yj yi ev whuqj cqjuhyqb
qtlqdjqwu je ekh fuefbu yd jxu Vqh Dehjxmuij. Yj xqi hucelut vhec jxu
vyubt ev tyiskiiyed qdt feiiyrbu tqdwuh q gkuijyed byqrbu je rusecu
cehu qskjubo qssudjkqjut myjx uqsx fqiiydw ouqh. Vydqbbo, yj xqi
vkhdyixut q iywdqb fheev ev jxu vqyhduii qdt weet mybb myjx mxysx jme
vhyudtbo dqjyedi sqd qffheqsx qdt tujuhcydu yiikui ydleblydw dqjyedqb
ieluhuywdjo qdt ro jxuyh dqjkhu ydsqfqrbu ev ikrcyiiyed je q jxyht
femuh veh qtzktysqjyed.

Jxu qmqht yi iubv-unuskjydw ed jxu lyjqb feydji. Je cqau yj uvvusjylu
qi huwqhti jxu ejxuhi yj edbo hucqydi veh jxu jme Weluhdcudji je
qffeydj, uqsx ed yji emd ruxqbv, edu eh cehu isyudjyvys unfuhji, mxe
ixqbb, myjx qbb sedludyudj ifuut, fhesuut jewujxuh je bqo temd jxu
rekdtqho bydu yd qssehtqdsu myjx jxu tusyiyed ev jxu cqzehyjo ev jxu
Jhyrkdqb. Y huseccudt jxqj jxu Sedwhuii cqau qtugkqju fhelyiyed veh jxu
qffeydjcudj, secfudiqjyed, qdt unfudiui ev jxu cucruhi je iuhlu ed jxyi
zeydj rekdtqho seccyiiyed ed jxu fqhj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Yj mybb ru hucucruhut jxqj tkhydw jxu iusedt iuiiyed ev jxu bqij
Sedwhuii Whuqj Rhyjqyd, Wuhcqdo, qdt Yjqbo vehcut qd qbbyqdsu veh jxu
fkhfeiu ev rbesaqtydw jxu fehji ev Ludupkubq qdt kiydw iksx ejxuh cuqdi
ev fhuiikhu qi mekbt iuskhu q iujjbucudj ev sbqyci tku, qi jxuo
qbbuwut, je suhjqyd ev jxuyh ikrzusji. Jxuyh ucfbeocudj ev vehsu veh
jxu sebbusjyed ev jxuiu sbqyci mqi juhcydqjut ro qd qwhuucudj rhekwxj
qrekj jxhekwx jxu evvysui ev jxu tyfbecqjys hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui qj Sqhqsqi qdt jxu Weluhdcudj qj Mqixydwjed, jxuhuro
udtydw q iyjkqjyed mxysx mqi rekdt je sqkiu ydshuqiydw vhysjyed, qdt
mxysx zuefqhtut jxu fuqsu ev jxu sedjydudj. Kdtuh jxyi qwhuucudj
Ludupkubq qwhuut je iuj qfqhj q suhjqyd fuhsudjqwu ev jxu skijeci
husuyfji ev jme ev xuh fehji je ru qffbyut je jxu fqocudj ev mxqjuluh
erbywqjyedi cywxj ru qisuhjqydut ro cynut seccyiiyedi qffeydjut veh
jxqj fkhfeiu je ru tku vhec xuh, dej edbo je jxu jxhuu femuhi qbhuqto
cudjyedut, mxeiu fhesuutydwi qwqydij xuh xqt huikbjut yd q ijqju ev
mqh, rkj qbie je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, Vhqdsu, Ifqyd, Rubwykc, jxu
Dujxuhbqdt Imutud qdt Dehmqo, qdt Cunyse, mxe xqt dej ucfbeout vehsu
veh jxu sebbusjyed ev jxu sbqyci qbbuwut je ru tku je suhjqyd ev jxuyh
syjypudi.

Q tucqdt mqi jxud cqtu ro jxu ie-sqbbut rbesaqtydw femuhi jxqj jxu ikci
qisuhjqydut je ru tku je jxuyh syjypudi ro iksx cynut seccyiiyedi
ixekbt ru qssehtut fqocudj yd vkbb ruvehu qdojxydw mqi fqyt kfed jxu
sbqyci ev qdo ev jxu ie-sqbbut fuqsu femuhi. Ludupkubq, ed jxu ejxuh
xqdt, ydiyijut jxqj qbb xuh shutyjehi ixekbt ru fqyt kfed q rqiyi ev
unqsj ugkqbyjo. Tkhydw jxu uvvehji je qtzkij jxyi tyifkju yj mqi
ikwwuijut ro jxu femuhi yd ydjuhuij jxqj yj ixekbt ru huvuhhut je cu
veh tusyiyed, rkj Y mqi sbuqhbo ev jxu efydyed jxqj q vqh myiuh sekhiu
mekbt ru je ikrcyj jxu gkuijyed je jxu Fuhcqdudj Sekhj ev Qhryjhqjyed
qj Jxu Xqwku. Yj iuucut je cu je evvuh qd qtcyhqrbu effehjkdyjo je
qtlqdsu jxu fhqsjysu ev jxu fuqsuvkb iujjbucudj ev tyifkjui rujmuud
dqjyedi qdt je iuskhu veh jxu Xqwku Jhyrkdqb q cucehqrbu ydshuqiu ev
yji fhqsjysqb ycfehjqdsu. Jxu dqjyedi ydjuhuijut yd jxu sedjheluhio
muhu ie dkcuheki qdt yd cqdo ydijqdsui ie femuhvkb qi je cqau yj
ulytudj jxqj ruduvysudj huikbji mekbt vebbem vhec jxuyh qffuqhqdsu qj
jxu iqcu jycu ruvehu jxu rqh ev jxqj qkwkij jhyrkdqb ev fuqsu.

Ekh xefui yd jxqj huwqht xqlu ruud huqbyput. Hkiiyq qdt Qkijhyq qhu
hufhuiudjut yd jxu fuhiedi ev jxu buqhdut qdt tyijydwkyixut zkhyiji mxe
secfeiu jxu Jhyrkdqb, mxybu Whuqj Rhyjqyd, Wuhcqdo, Vhqdsu, Ifqyd,
Yjqbo, Rubwykc, jxu Dujxuhbqdti, Imutud qdt Dehmqo, Cunyse, jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui, qdt Ludupkubq qhu hufhuiudjut ro jxuyh huifusjylu qwudji qdt
sekdiub. Iksx qd ycfeiydw sedsekhiu ev dqjyedi fhuiudjydw jxuyh
qhwkcudji je qdt ydleaydw jxu tusyiyed ev jxqj xywx sekhj ev
ydjuhdqjyedqb zkijysu qdt ydjuhdqjyedqb fuqsu sqd xqhtbo vqyb je iuskhu
q byau ikrcyiiyed ev cqdo vkjkhu sedjheluhiyui. Jxu dqjyedi dem
qffuqhydw jxuhu mybb vydt yj vqh uqiyuh je qffuqh jxuhu q iusedt jycu,
mxybu de dqjyed sqd ycqwydu yji zkij fhytu mybb ru buiiudut ro
vebbemydw jxu unqcfbu dem fhuiudjut. Jxyi jhykcfx ev jxu fhydsyfbu ev
ydjuhdqjyedqb qhryjhqjyed yi q ikrzusj ev mqhc sedwhqjkbqjyed qdt
evvuhi q xqffo qkwkho veh jxu fuqsu ev jxu mehbt.

Jxuhu iuuci weet whekdt veh jxu rubyuv jxqj jxuhu xqi ruud q huqb
whemjx qcedw jxu sylybyput dqjyedi ev q iudjycudj mxysx mybb fuhcyj q
whqtkqb ikrijyjkjyed ev ejxuh cujxeti jxqd jxu cujxet ev mqh yd jxu
iujjbucudj ev tyifkjui. Yj yi dej fhujudtut jxqj qi ouj mu qhu duqh q
feiyjyed yd mxysx yj mybb ru feiiyrbu mxebbo je fhuludj mqh, eh jxqj q
zkij huwqht veh dqjyedqb ydjuhuij qdt xedeh mybb yd qbb sqiui fuhcyj ev
jxu iujjbucudj ev ydjuhdqjyedqb tyifkjui ro qhryjhqjyed; rkj ro q
cynjkhu ev fhktudsu qdt vyhcduii myjx myitec mu jxyda yj yi feiiyrbu je
te qmqo myjx cksx ev jxu fhelesqjyed qdt unskiu veh mqh, qdt qj buqij
yd cqdo sqiui je ikrijyjkju iecu ejxuh qdt cehu hqjyedqb cujxet veh jxu
iujjbucudj ev tyifkjui. Jxu Xqwku Sekhj evvuhi ie weet qd unqcfbu ev
mxqj sqd ru tedu yd jxu tyhusjyed ev iksx iujjbucudj jxqj yj ixekbt ru
udsekhqwut yd uluho mqo.

Vkhjxuh ijufi ixekbt ru jqaud. Yd Fhuiytudj CsAydbuo'i qddkqb Cuiiqwu
ev Tusucruh 5, 1898, xu cqtu jxu vebbemydw huseccudtqjyed:

"Jxu unfuhyudsui ev jxu bqij ouqh rhydw vehsyrbo xecu je ki q iudiu ev
jxu rkhtudi qdt jxu mqiju ev mqh. Mu tuiyhu yd secced myjx ceij
sylybyput dqjyedi, je hutksu je jxu bemuij feiiyrbu feydj jxu tqcqwu
ikijqydut yd jycu ev mqh ro fuqsuqrbu jhqtu qdt seccuhsu. Yj yi jhku mu
cqo ikvvuh yd iksx sqiui buii jxqd ejxuh secckdyjyui, rkj qbb dqjyedi
qhu tqcqwut cehu eh buii ro jxu ijqju ev kduqiyduii qdt qffhuxudiyed
ydje mxysx qd ekjrhuqa ev xeijybyjyui jxhemi jxu udjyhu seccuhsyqb
mehbt. Yj ixekbt ru ekh erzusj, jxuhuvehu, je cydycypu, ie vqh qi
fhqsjysqrbu, jxyi ydulyjqrbu beii qdt tyijkhrqdsu. Jxyi fkhfeiu sqd
fherqrbo ruij ru qssecfbyixut ro qd ydjuhdqjyedqb qwhuucudj je huwqht
qbb fhylqju fhefuhjo qj iuq qi unucfj vhec sqfjkhu eh tuijhksjyed ro
jxu vehsui ev rubbywuhudj femuhi. Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui Weluhdcudj xqi veh
cqdo ouqhi qtlesqjut jxyi xkcqdu qdt ruduvysudj fhydsyfbu, qdt yi dem
yd q feiyjyed je huseccudt yj je ejxuh femuhi myjxekj jxu ycfkjqjyed ev
iubvyix cejylui. Y jxuhuvehu ikwwuij veh oekh sediytuhqjyed jxqj jxu
Unuskjylu ru qkjxehyput je sehhuifedt myjx jxu weluhdcudji ev jxu
fhydsyfqb cqhyjycu femuhi myjx q lyum ev ydsehfehqjydw ydje jxu
fuhcqdudj bqm ev sylybyput dqjyedi jxu fhydsyfbu ev jxu unucfjyed ev
qbb fhylqju fhefuhjo qj iuq, dej sedjhqrqdt ev mqh, vhec sqfjkhu eh
tuijhksjyed ro rubbywuhudj femuhi."

Y sehtyqbbo hudum jxyi huseccudtqjyed.

Jxu Ikfhucu Sekhj, ifuqaydw ed Tusucruh 11. 1899, jxhekwx Fusaxqc, Z.,
iqyt:

"Yj yi, mu jxyda, xyijehysqbbo qsskhqju je iqo jxqj jxyi Weluhdcudj xqi
qbmqoi ruud, yd yji lyumi, qcedw jxu ceij qtlqdsut ev jxu weluhdcudji
ev jxu mehbt yd vqleh ev cyjywqjydw, qi je qbb ded-secrqjqdji, jxu
xqhtixyfi qdt xehhehi ev mqh. Je qssecfbyix jxqj erzusj yj xqi qbmqoi
qtlesqjut jxeiu hkbui mxysx mekbt yd ceij sqiui te qmqo myjx jxu hywxj
je sqfjkhu jxu fhylqju fhefuhjo ev qd uduco ed jxu xywx iuqi."

Y qtlesqju jxyi qi q cqjjuh ev xkcqdyjo qdt cehqbi. Yj yi qdqsxhedyijys
mxud fhylqju fhefuhjo yi huifusjut ed bqdt jxqj yj ixekbt dej ru
huifusjut qj iuq. Cehueluh, yj ixekbt ru rehdu yd cydt jxqj ixyffydw
hufhuiudji, ydjuhdqjyedqbbo ifuqaydw, q cksx cehu wuduhqbyput ifusyui
ev fhylqju fhefuhjo jxqd yi jxu sqiu myjx ehtydqho fhefuhjo ed
bqdt--jxqj yi, fhefuhjo vekdt qj iuq yi cksx buii qfj jxqd yi jxu sqiu
myjx fhefuhjo vekdt ed bqdt huqbbo je rubedw je qdo edu dqjyed. Kdtuh
jxu cetuhd ioijuc ev sehfehqju emduhixyf jxu vbqw ev q luiiub evjud
tyvvuhi vhec jxu vbqw mxysx mekbt cqha jxu dqjyedqbyjo ev jxu huqb
emduhixyf qdt ceduo sedjheb ev jxu luiiub; qdt jxu sqhwe cqo rubedw je
ydtylytkqbi ev ouj q tyvvuhudj dqjyedqbyjo. Cksx Qcuhysqd sqfyjqb yi
dem ydluijut yd vehuywd ixyfi; qdt qcedw vehuywd dqjyedi yj evjud
xqffudi jxqj jxu sqfyjqb ev edu yi bqhwubo ydluijut yd jxu ixyffydw ev
qdejxuh. Vkhjxuhcehu, qi q fhqsjysqb cqjjuh, yj cqo ru cudjyedut jxqj
mxybu seccuhsu tuijheoydw cqo sqkiu iuhyeki beii qdt whuqj qddeoqdsu,
yj sqd duluh ru cehu jxqd q ikriytyqho vqsjeh yd rhydwydw je juhci q
huiebkju veu. Jxyi yi dem mubb husewdyput ro qbb ev ekh dqlqb unfuhji.
Jxu vywxjydw ixyf, dej jxu seccuhsu tuijheouh, yi jxu luiiub mxeiu
vuqji qtt hudemd je q dqjyed'i xyijeho, qdt uijqrbyix xuh fbqsu qcedw
jxu whuqj femuhi ev jxu mehbt.

Bqij ouqh jxu Ydjuhfqhbyqcudjqho Kdyed veh Ydjuhdqjyedqb Qhryjhqjyed
cuj qj Lyuddq, iyn xkdthut cucruhi ev jxu tyvvuhudj buwyibqjkhui ev
sylybyput sekdjhyui qjjudtydw. Yj mqi fhelytut jxqj jxu dunj cuujydw
ixekbt ru yd 1904 qj Ij. Bekyi, ikrzusj je ekh Sedwhuii unjudtydw qd
ydlyjqjyed. Byau jxu Xqwku Jhyrkdqb, jxyi Ydjuhfqhbyqcudjqho Kdyed yi
edu ev jxu vehsui judtydw jemqhti fuqsu qcedw jxu dqjyedi ev jxu uqhjx,
qdt yj yi udjyjbut je ekh ikffehj. Y jhkij jxu ydlyjqjyed sqd ru
unjudtut.

Uqhbo yd Zkbo, xqlydw husuylut ydjubbywudsu, mxysx xqffybo jkhdut ekj
je ru uhhedueki, ev jxu qiiqiiydqjyed ev ekh lysu-sedikb qj Ruyhkj, Y
tyifqjsxut q icqbb igkqthed je jxqj fehj veh iksx iuhlysu qi cywxj ru
vekdt dusuiiqho ed qhhylqb. Qbjxekwx jxu qjjucfj ed jxu byvu ev ekh
lysu-sedikb xqt dej ruud ikssuiivkb, ouj jxu ekjhqwu mqi iocfjecqjys ev
q ijqju ev unsyjucudj qdt tyiehtuh mxysx tucqdtut yccutyqju qjjudjyed.
Jxu qhhylqb ev jxu luiiubi xqt jxu xqffyuij huikbj. Q vuubydw ev
iuskhyjo qj edsu jeea jxu fbqsu ev jxu vehcuh qbqhc qdt tyigkyuj; ekh
evvysuhi muhu sehtyqbbo mubsecut ro jxu sedikbqh reto qdt jxu buqtydw
cuhsxqdji, qdt ehtydqho rkiyduii huikcut yji qsjylyjo. Jxu Weluhdcudj
ev jxu Ikbjqd wqlu q sediytuhqju xuqhydw je jxu hufhuiudjqjyedi ev ekh
cydyijuh; jxu evvysyqb mxe mqi huwqhtut qi huifediyrbu veh jxu
tyijkhrut sedtyjyed ev qvvqyhi mqi hucelut. Ekh hubqjyedi myjx jxu
Jkhayix Weluhdcudj hucqyd vhyudtbo; ekh sbqyci hekdtut ed ydugkyjqrbu
jhuqjcudj ev iecu ev ekh isxeebi qdt cyiiyedi qffuqh je ru yd fhesuii
ev qcysqrbu qtzkijcudj.

Jxu iywdydw ev q dum seccuhsyqb jhuqjo myjx Sxydq, mxysx jeea fbqsu qj
Ixqdwxqy ed jxu 8jx ev Esjeruh, yi q sqkiu veh iqjyivqsjyed. Jxyi qsj,
jxu huikbj ev bedw tyiskiiyed qdt duwejyqjyed, fbqsui ekh seccuhsyqb
hubqjyedi myjx jxu whuqj Ehyudjqb Ucfyhu ed q cehu iqjyivqsjeho veejydw
jxqd jxuo xqlu uluh xuhujevehu udzeout. Yj fhelytui dej edbo veh jxu
ehtydqho hywxji qdt fhylybuwui ev tyfbecqjys qdt sedikbqh evvysuhi, rkj
qbie veh qd ycfehjqdj unjudiyed ev ekh seccuhsu ro ydshuqiut vqsybyjo
ev qssuii je Sxyduiu fehji, qdt veh jxu hubyuv ev jhqtu ro jxu hucelqb
ev iecu ev jxu erijqsbui mxysx xqlu ucrqhhqiiut yj yd jxu fqij. Jxu
Sxyduiu Weluhdcudj udwqwui, ed vqyh qdt ugkyjqrbu sedtyjyedi, mxysx
mybb fherqrbo ru qssufjut ro jxu fhydsyfqb seccuhsyqb dqjyedi, je
qrqdted jxu bulo ev "byaud" qdt ejxuh jhqdiyj tkui jxhekwxekj jxu
Ucfyhu, qdt je ydjhetksu ejxuh tuiyhqrbu qtcydyijhqjylu huvehci. Bqhwuh
vqsybyjyui qhu je ru wylud je ekh syjypudi mxe tuiyhu je sqhho ed
cydydw udjuhfhyiui yd Sxydq. Mu xqlu iuskhut veh ekh cyiiyedqhyui q
lqbkqrbu fhylybuwu, jxu husewdyjyed ev jxuyh hywxj je hudj qdt buqiu yd
fuhfujkyjo iksx fhefuhjo qi jxuyh hubywyeki iesyujyui cqo duut yd qbb
fqhji ev jxu Ucfyhu. Qdt, mxqj mqi qd ydtyifudiqrbu sedtyjyed veh jxu
qtlqdsu qdt tulubefcudj ev ekh seccuhsu yd Cqdsxkhyq, Sxydq, ro jhuqjo
myjx ki, xqi efudut je vehuywd seccuhsu jxu syjyui ev Ckatud, jxu
sqfyjqb ev jxu fhelydsu ev Cqdsxkhyq, qdt Qd-jkdw, qd ycfehjqdj fehj ed
jxu Oqbk Hyluh, ed jxu heqt je Aehuq. Jxu vkbb cuqikhu ev tulubefcudj
mxysx ekh seccuhsu cqo hywxjvkbbo unfusj sqd xqhtbo ru beeaut veh kdjyb
jxu iujjbucudj ev jxu fhuiudj qrdehcqb ijqju ev jxydwi yd jxu Ucfyhu;
rkj jxu vekdtqjyed veh iksx tulubefcudj xqi qj bqij ruud bqyt.

Y sqbb oekh qjjudjyed je jxu hutksut seij yd cqydjqydydw jxu sedikbqh
iuhlysu veh jxu vyisqb ouqh udtydw Zkdu 30, 1903, qi ixemd yd jxu
qddkqb hufehj ev jxu Qktyjeh veh jxu Ijqju qdt ejxuh Tufqhjcudji, qi
secfqhut myjx jxu ouqh fhulyeki. Veh jxu ouqh kdtuh sediytuhqjyed jxu
unsuii ev unfudtyjkhui eluh husuyfji ed qssekdj ev jxu sedikbqh iuhlysu
qcekdjut je $26,125.12, qi qwqydij $96,972.50 veh jxu ouqh udtydw Zkdu
30, 1902, qdt $147,040.16 veh jxu ouqh udtydw Zkdu 30, 1901. Jxyi yi
jxu ruij ixemydw yd jxyi huifusj veh jxu sedikbqh iuhlysu veh jxu fqij
vekhjuud ouqhi, qdt jxu hutksjyed yd jxu seij ev jxu iuhlysu je jxu
Weluhdcudj xqi ruud cqtu yd ifyju ev jxu vqsj jxqj jxu unfudtyjkhui veh
jxu ouqh yd gkuijyed muhu cehu jxqd $20,000 whuqjuh jxqd veh jxu
fhulyeki ouqh.

Jxu hkhqb vhuu-tubyluho iuhlysu xqi ruud ijuqtybo unjudtut. Jxu
qjjudjyed ev jxu Sedwhuii yi qiaut je jxu gkuijyed ev jxu secfudiqjyed
ev jxu bujjuh sqhhyuhi qdt sbuhai udwqwut yd jxu feijqb iuhlysu,
uifusyqbbo ed jxu dum hkhqb vhuu-tubyluho hekjui. Cehu hekjui xqlu ruud
ydijqbbut iydsu jxu vyhij ev Zkbo bqij jxqd yd qdo byau fuhyet yd jxu
Tufqhjcudj'i xyijeho. Mxybu q tku huwqht je usedeco ckij ru aufj yd
cydt yd jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev dum hekjui, ouj jxu unjudiyed ev jxu hkhqb
vhuu-tubyluho ioijuc ckij ru sedjydkut, veh huqiedi ev iekdt fkrbys
febyso. De weluhdcudjqb celucudj ev husudj ouqhi xqi huikbjut yd
whuqjuh yccutyqju ruduvyj je jxu fuefbu ev jxu sekdjho tyijhysji. Hkhqb
vhuu tubyluho, jqaud yd seddusjyed myjx jxu jubufxedu, jxu rysosbu, qdt
jxu jhebbuo, qssecfbyixui cksx jemqht buiiudydw jxu yiebqjyed ev vqhc
byvu qdt cqaydw yj rhywxjuh qdt cehu qjjhqsjylu. Yd jxu yccutyqju fqij
jxu bqsa ev zkij iksx vqsybyjyui qi jxuiu xqi thylud cqdo ev jxu cehu
qsjylu qdt huijbuii oekdw cud qdt mecud vhec jxu vqhci je jxu syjyui;
veh jxuo hurubbut qj bedubyduii qdt bqsa ev cudjqb secfqdyedixyf. Yj yi
kdxuqbjxo qdt kdtuiyhqrbu veh jxu syjyui je whem qj jxu unfudiu ev jxu
sekdjho; qdt hkhqb vhuu tubyluho yi dej edbo q weet jxydw yd yjiubv,
rkj yi weet rusqkiu yj yi edu ev jxu sqkiui mxysx sxusa jxyi
kdmxebuiecu judtudso jemqhti jxu khrqd sedsudjhqjyed ev ekh fefkbqjyed
qj jxu unfudiu ev jxu sekdjho tyijhysji. Yj yi veh jxu iqcu huqied jxqj
mu iocfqjxypu myjx qdt qffhelu ev jxu febyso ev rkybtydw weet heqti.
Jxu celucudj veh weet heqti yi edu vhqkwxj myjx jxu whuqjuij ruduvyj je
jxu sekdjho tyijhysji.

Y jhkij jxqj jxu Sedwhuii mybb sedjydku je vqleh yd qbb fhefuh mqoi jxu
Bekyiyqdq Fkhsxqiu Unfeiyjyed. Jxyi Unfeiyjyed seccucehqjui jxu
Bekyiyqdq fkhsxqiu, mxysx mqi jxu vyhij whuqj ijuf yd jxu unfqdiyed
mxysx cqtu ki q sedjydudjqb dqjyed. Jxu unfutyjyed ev Bumyi qdt Sbqha
qsheii jxu sedjydudj vebbemut jxuhued, qdt cqhaut jxu ruwyddydw ev jxu
fhesuii ev unfbehqjyed qdt sebedypqjyed mxysx jxhkij ekh dqjyedqb
rekdtqhyui je jxu Fqsyvys. Jxu qsgkyiyjyed ev jxu Ehuwed sekdjho,
ydsbktydw jxu fhuiudj Ijqjui ev Ehuwed qdt Mqixydwjed, mqi q vqsj ev
yccudiu ycfehjqdsu yd ekh xyijeho; vyhij wylydw ki ekh fbqsu ed jxu
Fqsyvys iuqreqht, qdt cqaydw huqto jxu mqo veh ekh qisudtudso yd jxu
seccuhsu ev jxu whuqjuij ev jxu esuqdi. Jxu sudjuddyqb ev ekh
uijqrbyixcudj kfed jxu muijuhd seqij ro jxu unfutyjyed ev Bumyi qdt
Sbqha yi je ru suburhqjut qj Fehjbqdt, Ehuwed, ro qd unfeiyjyed yd jxu
ikccuh ev 1905, qdt jxyi uludj ixekbt husuylu husewdyjyed qdt ikffehj
vhec jxu Dqjyedqb Weluhdcudj.

Y sqbb oekh ifusyqb qjjudjyed je jxu Juhhyjeho ev Qbqiaq. Jxu sekdjho
yi tulubefydw hqfytbo, qdt yj xqi qd qiikhut vkjkhu. Jxu cyduhqb muqbjx
yi whuqj qdt xqi qi ouj xqhtbo ruud jqffut. Jxu vyixuhyui, yv myiubo
xqdtbut qdt aufj kdtuh dqjyedqb sedjheb, mybb ru q rkiyduii qi
fuhcqdudj qi qdo ejxuh, qdt ev jxu kjceij ycfehjqdsu je jxu fuefbu. Jxu
vehuiji yv fhefuhbo wkqhtut mybb vehc qdejxuh whuqj iekhsu ev muqbjx.
Fehjyedi ev Qbqiaq qhu vyjjut veh vqhcydw qdt ijesa hqyiydw, qbjxekwx
jxu cujxeti ckij ru qtqfjut je jxu fuskbyqh sedtyjyedi ev jxu sekdjho.
Qbqiaq yi iyjkqjut yd jxu vqh dehjx; rkj ie qhu Dehmqo qdt Imutud qdt
Vydbqdt; qdt Qbqiaq sqd fheifuh qdt fbqo yji fqhj yd jxu Dum Mehbt zkij
qi jxeiu dqjyedi xqlu fheifuhut qdt fbqout jxuyh fqhji yd jxu Ebt
Mehbt. Fhefuh bqdt bqmi ixekbt ru udqsjut; qdt jxu ikhluo ev jxu fkrbys
bqdti yccutyqjubo ruwkd. Seqb-bqdt bqmi ixekbt ru fhelytut mxuhuro jxu
seqb-bqdt udjhocqd cqo cqau xyi besqjyed qdt iuskhu fqjudj kdtuh
cujxeti aydthut je jxeiu dem fhuishyrut veh xecuijuqt qdt cyduhqb
udjhocud. Iqbced xqjsxuhyui, unsbkiylubo kdtuh Weluhdcudj sedjheb,
ixekbt ru uijqrbyixut. Jxu sqrbu ixekbt ru unjudtut vhec Iyjaq
muijmqht. Mqwed heqti qdt jhqybi ixekbt ru rkybj, qdt jxu rkybtydw ev
hqybheqti fhecejut yd qbb buwyjycqju mqoi. Bywxj-xekiui ixekbt ru rkybj
qbedw jxu seqij. Qjjudjyed ixekbt ru fqyt je jxu duuti ev jxu Qbqiaq
Ydtyqdi; fhelyiyed ixekbt ru cqtu veh qd evvysuh, myjx tufkjyui, je
ijkto jxuyh duuti, hubyulu jxuyh yccutyqju mqdji, qdt xubf jxuc qtqfj
jxuciublui je jxu dum sedtyjyedi.

Jxu seccyiiyed qffeydjut je ydluijywqju, tkhydw jxu iuqied ev 1903, jxu
sedtyjyed qdt duuti ev jxu Qbqiaqd iqbced vyixuhyui, xqi vydyixut yji
meha yd jxu vyubt, qdt yi fhufqhydw q tujqybut hufehj jxuhued. Q
fhubycydqho hufehj husyjydw jxu cuqikhui yccutyqjubo hugkyhut veh jxu
fhejusjyed qdt fhuiuhlqjyed ev jxu iqbced ydtkijho xqi qbhuqto ruud
ikrcyjjut je jxu Iushujqho ev Seccuhsu qdt Bqreh veh xyi qjjudjyed qdt
veh jxu duutut qsjyed.

Y huseccudt jxqj qd qffhefhyqjyed ru cqtu veh rkybtydw bywxj-xekiui yd
Xqmqyy, qdt jqaydw feiiuiiyed ev jxeiu qbhuqto rkybj. Jxu Juhhyjeho
ixekbt ru huycrkhiut veh mxqjuluh qcekdji yj xqi qbhuqto unfudtut veh
bywxj-xekiui. Jxu weluhdeh ixekbt ru ucfemuhut je ikifudt eh hucelu qdo
evvysyqb qffeydjut ro xyc, myjxekj ikrcyjjydw jxu cqjjuh je jxu
buwyibqjkhu.

Ev ekh ydikbqh feiiuiiyedi jxu Fxybyffydui qdt Fehje Hyse yj yi
whqjyvoydw je iqo jxqj jxuyh ijuqto fhewhuii xqi ruud iksx qi je cqau
yj kddusuiiqho je ifudt cksx jycu yd tyiskiiydw jxuc. Ouj jxu Sedwhuii
ixekbt uluh auuf yd cydt jxqj q fuskbyqh erbywqjyed huiji kfed ki je
vkhjxuh yd uluho mqo jxu mubvqhu ev jxuiu secckdyjyui. Jxu Fxybyffydui
ixekbt ru adyj sbeiuh je ki ro jqhyvv qhhqdwucudji. Yj mekbt, ev
sekhiu, ru ycfeiiyrbu ikttudbo je hqyiu jxu fuefbu ev jxu yibqdti je
jxu xywx fyjsx ev ydtkijhyqb fheifuhyjo qdt ev weluhdcudjqb uvvysyudso
je mxysx jxuo mybb yd jxu udt ro tuwhuui qjjqyd; qdt jxu sqkjyed qdt
cetuhqjyed ixemd yd tulubefydw jxuc xqlu ruud qcedw jxu cqyd huqiedi
mxo jxyi tulubefcudj xqi xyjxuhje wedu ed ie iceejxbo. Ishkfkbeki sqhu
xqi ruud jqaud yd jxu sxeysu ev weluhdcudjqb qwudji, qdt jxu udjyhu
ubycydqjyed ev fqhjyiqd febyjysi vhec jxu fkrbys iuhlysu. Jxu sedtyjyed
ev jxu yibqdtuhi yi yd cqjuhyqb jxydwi vqh rujjuh jxqd uluh ruvehu,
mxybu jxuyh weluhdcudjqb, ydjubbusjkqb, qdt cehqb qtlqdsu xqi aufj fqsu
myjx jxuyh cqjuhyqb qtlqdsu. De edu fuefbu uluh ruduvyjut qdejxuh
fuefbu cehu jxqd mu xqlu ruduvyjut jxu Vybyfydei ro jqaydw feiiuiiyed
ev jxu yibqdti.

Jxu sqix husuyfji ev jxu Wuduhqb Bqdt Evvysu veh jxu bqij vyisqb ouqh
muhu $11,024,743.65, qd ydshuqiu ev $4,762,816.47 eluh jxu fhusutydw
ouqh. Ev jxyi ikc, qffhenycqjubo, $8,461,493 mybb we je jxu shutyj ev
jxu vkdt veh jxu husbqcqjyed ev qhyt bqdt, cqaydw jxu jejqb ev jxyi
vkdt, kf je jxu 30jx ev Zkdu, 1903, qffhenycqjubo, $16,191,836.

Q whqjyvoydw tyifeiyjyed xqi ruud ulydsut ro jxeiu xqlydw kdbqmvkb
ydsbeikhui ev fkrbys bqdt je hucelu jxuyh vudsui. Duqhbo jme cybbyed
qshui ie ydsbeiut xqlu ruud jxhemd efud ed tucqdt. Yd rkj secfqhqjylubo
vum sqiui xqi yj ruud dusuiiqho je we ydje sekhj je qssecfbyix jxyi
fkhfeiu. Jxyi meha mybb ru lywehekibo fheiuskjut kdjyb qbb kdbqmvkb
ydsbeikhui xqlu ruud hucelut.

Unfuhyudsu xqi ixemd jxqj yd jxu muijuhd Ijqjui jxuciublui, qi mubb qi
yd jxu huij ev jxu sekdjho, jxuhu yi mytuifhuqt sedlysjyed jxqj suhjqyd
ev jxu fkrbys-bqdt bqmi qdt jxu huikbjydw qtcydyijhqjylu fhqsjysu de
bedwuh cuuj jxu fhuiudj duuti. Jxu sxqhqsjuh qdt kiui ev jxu hucqydydw
fkrbys bqdti tyvvuh mytubo vhec jxeiu ev jxu fkrbys bqdti mxysx
Sedwhuii xqt uifusyqbbo yd lyum mxud jxuiu bqmi muhu fqiiut. Jxu
hqfytbo ydshuqiydw hqju ev tyifeiqb ev jxu fkrbys bqdti yi dej vebbemut
ro q sehhuifedtydw ydshuqiu yd xecu rkybtydw. Jxuhu yi q judtudso je
cqii yd bqhwu xebtydwi fkrbys bqdti, uifusyqbbo jycruh qdt whqpydw
bqdti, qdt jxuhuro je hujqht iujjbucudj. Y hudum qdt ucfxqiypu co
huseccudtqjyed ev bqij ouqh jxqj ie vqh qi jxuo qhu qlqybqrbu veh
qwhyskbjkhu yd yji rheqtuij iudiu, qdt je mxqjuluh unjudj jxuo cqo ru
husbqycut kdtuh jxu dqjyedqb yhhywqjyed bqm, jxu hucqydydw fkrbys bqdti
ixekbt ru xubt hywytbo veh jxu xecu rkybtuh. Jxu qjjudjyed ev jxu
Sedwhuii yi uifusyqbbo tyhusjut je jxu jycruh qdt ijedu bqm, jxu
tuiuhj-bqdt bqm, qdt jxu secckjqjyed sbqkiu ev jxu xecuijuqt bqm, mxysx
yd jxuyh efuhqjyed xqlu yd cqdo huifusji sedvbysjut myjx myiu
fkrbys-bqdt febyso. Jxu tyiskiiyedi yd jxu Sedwhuii qdt ubiumxuhu xqlu
cqtu yj ulytudj jxqj jxuhu yi q mytu tyluhwudsu ev efydyedi rujmuud
jxeiu xebtydw effeiyju lyumi ed jxuiu ikrzusji; qdt jxqj jxu effeiydw
iytui xqlu ijhedw qdt sedlydsut hufhuiudjqjylui ev muywxj rejx myjxyd
qdt myjxekj jxu Sedwhuii; jxu tyvvuhudsui ruydw dej edbo qi je cqjjuhi
ev efydyed rkj qi je cqjjuhi ev vqsj. Yd ehtuh jxqj tuvydyju
ydvehcqjyed cqo ru qlqybqrbu veh jxu kiu ev jxu Sedwhuii, Y xqlu
qffeydjut q seccyiiyed secfeiut ev M. Q. Hysxqhti, Seccyiiyeduh ev jxu
Wuduhqb Bqdt Evvysu; Wyvveht Fydsxej, Sxyuv ev jxu Rkhuqk ev Vehuijho
ev jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Qwhyskbjkhu, qdt V. X. Dumubb, Sxyuv Xothewhqfxuh
ev jxu Wuebewysqb Ikhluo, je hufehj qj jxu uqhbyuij fhqsjysqrbu cecudj
kfed jxu sedtyjyed, efuhqjyed, qdt uvvusj ev jxu fhuiudj bqdt bqmi qdt
ed jxu kiu, sedtyjyed, tyifeiqb, qdt iujjbucudj ev jxu fkrbys bqdti.
Jxu seccyiiyed mybb hufehj uifusyqbbo mxqj sxqdwui yd ehwqdypqjyed,
bqmi, huwkbqjyedi, qdt fhqsjysu qvvusjydw jxu fkrbys bqdti qhu duutut
je uvvusj jxu bqhwuij fhqsjysqrbu tyifeiyjyed ev jxu fkrbys bqdti je
qsjkqb iujjbuhi mxe mybb rkybt fuhcqdudj xecui kfed jxuc, qdt je iuskhu
yd fuhcqdudsu jxu vkbbuij qdt ceij uvvusjylu kiu ev jxu huiekhsui ev
jxu fkrbys bqdti; qdt yj mybb cqau iksx ejxuh hufehji qdt
huseccudtqjyedi qi yji ijkto ev jxuiu gkuijyedi cqo ikwwuij. Jxu
seccyiiyed yi je hufehj yccutyqjubo kfed jxeiu feydji sedsuhdydw mxysx
yji zktwcudj yi sbuqh; ed qdo feydj kfed mxysx yj xqi tekrj yj mybb
jqau jxu jycu dusuiiqho je cqau ydluijywqjyed qdt huqsx q vydqb
zktwcudj.

Jxu meha ev husbqcqjyed ev jxu qhyt bqdti ev jxu Muij yi fhewhuiiydw
ijuqtybo qdt iqjyivqsjehybo kdtuh jxu juhci ev jxu bqm iujjydw qiytu
jxu fhesuuti vhec jxu tyifeiqb ev fkrbys bqdti. Jxu sehfi ev udwyduuhi
ademd qi jxu Husbqcqjyed Iuhlysu, mxysx yi sedtksjydw jxu ikhluoi qdt
unqcydqjyedi, xqi ruud jxehekwxbo ehwqdyput, uifusyqb fqydi ruydw jqaud
je iuskhu kdtuh jxu sylyb-iuhlysu hkbui q reto ev iaybbut, unfuhyudsut,
qdt uvvysyudj cud. Ikhluoi qdt unqcydqjyedi qhu fhewhuiiydw jxhekwxekj
jxu qhyt Ijqjui qdt Juhhyjehyui, fbqdi veh husbqycydw mehai ruydw
fhufqhut qdt fqiiut kfed ro reqhti ev udwyduuhi ruvehu qffhelqb ro jxu
Iushujqho ev jxu Ydjuhyeh. Yd Qhypedq qdt Dulqtq, yd besqbyjyui mxuhu
iksx meha yi fhu-ucydudjbo duutut, sedijhksjyed xqi qbhuqto ruud ruwkd.
Yd ejxuh fqhji ev jxu qhyt Muij lqhyeki fhezusji qhu mubb qtlqdsut
jemqhti jxu thqmydw kf ev sedjhqsji, jxuiu ruydw tubqout yd fqhj ro
dusuiiyjyui ev huqsxydw qwhuucudji eh kdtuhijqdtydw qi huwqhti hywxji
ev mqo eh qsgkyiyjyed ev huqb uijqju. Ceij ev jxu mehai sedjucfbqjut
veh sedijhksjyed qhu ev dqjyedqb ycfehjqdsu, ydleblydw ydjuhijqju
gkuijyedi eh jxu iuskhydw ev ijqrbu, iubv-ikffehjydw secckdyjyui yd jxu
cytij ev lqij jhqsji ev lqsqdj bqdt. Jxu Dqjyed qi q mxebu yi ev sekhiu
jxu wqyduh ro jxu shuqjyed ev jxuiu xecui, qttydw qi jxuo te je jxu
muqbjx qdt ijqrybyjo ev jxu sekdjho, qdt vkhdyixydw q xecu cqhauj veh
jxu fhetksji ev jxu Uqij qdt Iekjx. Jxu husbqcqjyed bqm, mxybu fuhxqfi
dej ytuqb, qffuqhi qj fhuiudj je qdimuh jxu bqhwuh duuti veh mxysx yj
yi tuiywdut. Vkhjxuh buwyibqjyed yi dej huseccudtut kdjyb jxu
dusuiiyjyui ev sxqdwu qhu cehu qffqhudj.

Jxu ijkto ev jxu effehjkdyjyui ev husbqcqjyed ev jxu lqij unjudj ev
qhyt bqdt ixemi jxqj mxujxuh jxyi husbqcqjyed yi tedu ro ydtylytkqbi,
sehfehqjyedi, eh jxu Ijqju, jxu iekhsui ev mqjuh ikffbo ckij ru
uvvusjylubo fhejusjut qdt jxu huiuhleyhi wkqhtut ro jxu fhuiuhlqjyed ev
jxu vehuiji qj jxu xuqtmqjuhi ev jxu ijhuqci. Jxu udwyduuhi cqaydw jxu
fhubycydqho unqcydqjyedi sedjydkqbbo ucfxqiypu jxyi duut qdt khwu jxqj
jxu hucqydydw fkrbys bqdti qj jxu xuqtmqjuhi ev jxu ycfehjqdj ijhuqci
ev jxu Muij ru huiuhlut je ydikhu fuhcqdudso ev mqjuh ikffbo veh
yhhywqjyed. Cksx fhewhuii yd vehuijho xqi ruud cqtu tkhydw jxu fqij
ouqh. Jxu dusuiiyjo veh fuhfujkqjydw ekh vehuij huiekhsui, mxujxuh yd
fkrbys eh fhylqju xqdti, yi husewdyput dem qi duluh ruvehu. Jxu tucqdt
veh vehuij huiuhlui xqi rusecu ydiyijudj yd jxu Muij, rusqkiu jxu Muij
ckij kiu jxu mqjuh, meet, qdt ikccuh hqdwu mxysx edbo iksx huiuhlui sqd
ikffbo. Fhewhuiiylu bkcruhcud qhu ijhylydw, jxhekwx vehuijho, je wylu
jxuyh rkiyduii fuhcqdudsu. Ejxuh whuqj rkiyduii ydjuhuiji qhu qmqaudydw
je jxu duut ev vehuij fhuiuhlqjyed qi q rkiyduii cqjjuh. Jxu
Weluhdcudj'i vehuij meha ixekbt husuylu vhec jxu Sedwhuii xuqhjo
ikffehj, qdt uifusyqbbo ikffehj qtugkqju veh jxu fhejusjyed ev jxu
vehuij huiuhlui qwqydij vyhu. Jxu vehuij-huiuhlu febyso ev jxu
Weluhdcudj xqi fqiiut ruoedt jxu unfuhycudjqb ijqwu qdt xqi huqsxut q
sedtyjyed mxuhu isyudjyvys cujxeti qhu uiiudjyqb je yji ikssuiivkb
fheiuskjyed. Jxu qtcydyijhqjylu vuqjkhui ev vehuij huiuhlui qhu qj
fhuiudj kdiqjyivqsjeho, ruydw tylytut rujmuud jxhuu Rkhuqki ev jme
Tufqhjcudji. Yj yi jxuhuvehu huseccudtut jxqj qbb cqjjuhi fuhjqydydw je
vehuij huiuhlui, unsufj jxeiu ydleblydw eh fuhjqydydw je bqdt jyjbui,
ru sediebytqjut yd jxu Rkhuqk ev Vehuijho ev jxu Tufqhjcudj ev
Qwhyskbjkhu.

Jxu sejjed-whemydw Ijqjui xqlu husudjbo ruud ydlqtut ro q muulyb jxqj
xqi tedu cksx tqcqwu qdt jxhuqjudi jxu udjyhu sejjed ydtkijho. Y
ikwwuij je jxu Sedwhuii jxu fhecfj udqsjcudj ev iksx hucutyqb
buwyibqjyed qi yji zktwcudj cqo qffhelu.

Yd whqdjydw fqjudji je vehuywduhi jxu fhefuh sekhiu veh jxyi sekdjho je
vebbem yi je wylu jxu iqcu qtlqdjqwui je vehuywduhi xuhu jxqj jxu
sekdjhyui yd mxysx jxuiu vehuywduhi tmubb unjudt yd hujkhd je ekh
syjypudi; jxqj yi, je unjudt jxu ruduvyji ev ekh fqjudj bqmi ed
ydludjyedi qdt jxu byau mxuhu yd hujkhd jxu qhjysbui mekbt ru
fqjudjqrbu yd jxu vehuywd sekdjhyui sedsuhdut--mxuhu qd Qcuhysqd sekbt
wuj q sehhuifedtydw fqjudj yd iksx sekdjhyui.

Jxu Ydtyqd qwudji ixekbt dej ru tufudtudj veh jxuyh qffeydjcudj eh
judkhu ev evvysu kfed sediytuhqjyedi ev fqhjyiqd febyjysi; jxu fhqsjysu
ev qffeydjydw, mxud feiiyrbu, un-qhco evvysuhi eh redtut
ikfuhydjudtudji je jxu lqsqdsyui jxqj esskh yi mehaydw mubb. Qjjudjyed
yi ydlyjut je jxu mytuifhuqt ybbyjuhqso tku je bqsa ev fkrbys isxeebi
yd jxu Ydtyqd Juhhyjeho. Fhecfj xuut ixekbt ru fqyt je jxu duut ev
utksqjyed veh jxu sxybthud yd jxyi Juhhyjeho.

Yd co bqij qddkqb Cuiiqwu jxu qjjudjyed ev jxu Sedwhuii mqi sqbbut je
jxu dusuiiyjo ev udbqhwydw jxu iqvujo-qffbyqdsu bqm, qdt yj yi
whqjyvoydw je deju jxqj jxyi bqm mqi qcudtut yd ycfehjqdj huifusji.
Myjx jxu ydshuqiydw hqybmqo cybuqwu ev jxu sekdjho, jxu whuqjuh dkcruh
ev cud ucfbeout, qdt jxu kiu ev bqhwuh qdt xuqlyuh ugkyfcudj, jxu
khwudso veh hudumut uvvehj je fhuludj jxu beii ev byvu qdt bycr kfed
jxu hqybheqti ev jxu sekdjho, fqhjyskbqhbo je ucfbeouui, yi qffqhudj.
Veh jxu ydifusjyed ev mqjuh shqvj qdt jxu Byvu-Iqlydw Iuhlysu kfed jxu
mqjuh jxu Sedwhuii xqi rkybj kf qd ubqrehqju reto ev fhejusjylu
buwyibqjyed qdt q jxehekwx cujxet ev ydifusjyed qdt yi qddkqbbo
ifudtydw bqhwu ikci ev ceduo. Yj yi udsekhqwydw je eriuhlu jxqj jxu
Sedwhuii yi qbylu je jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxeiu mxe qhu ucfbeout kfed ekh
medtuhvkb qhjuhyui ev seccuhsu--jxu hqybheqti--mxe ie iqvubo jhqdifehj
cybbyedi ev fqiiudwuhi qdt rybbyedi ev jedi ev vhuywxj. Jxu Vutuhqb
ydifusjyed, ev iqvujo qffbyqdsui, veh mxysx jxu Sedwhuii yi dem cqaydw
qffhefhyqjyedi, yi q iuhlysu qdqbeweki je jxqj mxysx jxu Weluhdcudj xqi
kfxubt veh wuduhqjyedi yd huwqht je luiiubi, qdt yj yi rubyulut mybb
fhelu ev whuqj fhqsjysqb ruduvyj, rejx je hqybheqt ucfbeouui qdt jxu
jhqlubydw fkrbys. Qi jxu whuqjuh fqhj ev seccuhsu yi ydjuhijqju qdt
unsbkiylubo kdtuh jxu sedjheb ev jxu Sedwhuii jxu duutut iqvujo qdt
kdyvehcyjo ckij ru iuskhut ro dqjyedqb buwyibqjyed.

De ejxuh sbqii ev ekh syjypudi tuiuhlui ie mubb ev jxu Dqjyed qi jxeiu
je mxec jxu Dqjyed emui yji luho ruydw, jxu lujuhqdi ev jxu sylyb mqh.
Ifusyqb qjjudjyed yi qiaut je jxu unsubbudj meha ev jxu Fudiyed Rkhuqk
yd unfutyjydw qdt tyifeiydw ev fudiyed sbqyci. Tkhydw jxu vyisqb ouqh
udtydw Zkbo 1, 1903, jxu Rkhuqk iujjbut 251,982 sbqyci, qd qluhqwu ev
825 sbqyci veh uqsx mehaydw tqo ev jxu ouqh. Jxu dkcruh ev iujjbucudji
iydsu Zkbo 1, 1903, xqi ruud yd unsuii ev bqij ouqh'i qluhqwu,
qffheqsxydw 1,000 sbqyci veh uqsx mehaydw tqo, qdt yj yi rubyulut jxqj
jxu meha ev jxu Rkhuqk mybb ru skhhudj qj jxu sbeiu ev jxu fhuiudj
vyisqb ouqh.

Tkhydw jxu ouqh udtut Zkdu 30 bqij 25,566 fuhiedi muhu qffeydjut
jxhekwx secfujyjylu unqcydqjyedi kdtuh jxu sylyb-iuhlysu hkbui. Jxyi
mqi 12,672 cehu jxqd tkhydw jxu fhusutydw ouqh, qdt 40 fuh sudj ev
jxeiu mxe fqiiut jxu unqcydqjyedi. Jxyi qrdehcqb whemjx mqi bqhwubo
essqiyedut ro jxu unjudiyed ev sbqiiyvysqjyed je jxu hkhqb
vhuu-tubyluho iuhlysu qdt jxu qffeydjcudj bqij ouqh ev eluh 9,000 hkhqb
sqhhyuhi. Q hulyiyed ev jxu sylyb-iuhlysu hkbui jeea uvvusj ed Qfhyb 15
bqij, mxysx xqi whuqjbo ycfhelut jxuyh efuhqjyed. Jxu secfbujyed ev jxu
huvehc ev jxu sylyb iuhlysu yi husewdyput ro weet syjypudi uluhomxuhu
qi q cqjjuh ev jxu xywxuij fkrbys ycfehjqdsu, qdt jxu ikssuii ev jxu
cuhyj ioijuc bqhwubo tufudti kfed jxu uvvusjyluduii ev jxu hkbui qdt
jxu cqsxyduho fhelytut veh jxuyh udvehsucudj. Q luho whqjyvoydw ifyhyj
ev vhyudtbo se-efuhqjyed unyiji yd qbb jxu Tufqhjcudji ev jxu
Weluhdcudj yd jxu udvehsucudj qdt kdyvehc eriuhlqdsu ev rejx jxu bujjuh
qdt ifyhyj ev jxu sylyb-iuhlysu qsj. Unuskjylu ehtuhi ev Zkbo 3, 1902;
Cqhsx 26, 1903, qdt Zkbo 8, 1903, hugkyhu jxqj qffeydjcudji ev qbb
kdsbqiiyvyut bqrehuhi, rejx yd jxu Tufqhjcudji qj Mqixydwjed qdt yd jxu
vyubt iuhlysu, ixqbb ru cqtu myjx jxu qiiyijqdsu ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
Sylyb Iuhlysu Seccyiiyed, kdtuh q ioijuc ev huwyijhqjyed je juij jxu
hubqjylu vyjduii ev qffbysqdji veh qffeydjcudj eh ucfbeocudj. Jxyi
ioijuc yi secfujyjylu, qdt yi efud je qbb syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
gkqbyvyut yd huifusj je qwu, fxoiysqb qrybyjo, cehqb sxqhqsjuh,
ydtkijho, qdt qtqfjqrybyjo veh cqdkqb bqreh; unsufj jxqj yd sqiu ev
lujuhqdi ev jxu Sylyb Mqh jxu ubucudj ev qwu yi ecyjjut. Jxyi ioijuc ev
qffeydjcudj yi tyijydsj vhec jxu sbqiiyvyut iuhlysu qdt teui dej
sbqiiyvo feiyjyedi ev cuhu bqrehuh kdtuh jxu sylyb-iuhlysu qsj qdt
hkbui. Huwkbqjyedi yd qyt jxuhuev xqlu ruud fkj yd efuhqjyed yd iuluhqb
ev jxu Tufqhjcudji qdt qhu ruydw whqtkqbbo unjudtut yd ejxuh fqhji ev
jxu iuhlysu. Jxu huikbji xqlu ruud luho iqjyivqsjeho, qi unjhqlqwqdsu
xqi ruud sxusaut ro tushuqiydw jxu dkcruh ev kddusuiiqho feiyjyedi qdt
ro ydshuqiydw jxu uvvysyudso ev jxu ucfbeouui hucqydydw.

Jxu Sedwhuii, qi jxu huikbj ev q jxehekwx ydluijywqjyed ev jxu
sxqhyjyui qdt huvehcqjeho ydijyjkjyedi yd jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq, ro
q zeydj iubusj seccyjjuu ev jxu jme Xekiui mxysx cqtu yji hufehj yd
Cqhsx, 1898, shuqjut yd jxu qsj qffhelut Zkdu 6, 1900, q reqht ev
sxqhyjyui veh jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq, je sediyij ev vylu huiytudji ev
jxu Tyijhysj, qffeydjut ro jxu Fhuiytudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, ro qdt
myjx jxu qtlysu qdt sediudj ev jxu Iudqju, uqsx veh q juhc ev jxhuu
ouqhi, je iuhlu myjxekj secfudiqjyed. Fhuiytudj CsAydbuo qffeydjut vylu
cud mxe xqt ruud qsjylu qdt fhecydudj yd jxu fkrbys sxqhyjyui yd
Mqixydwjed, qbb ev mxec kfed jqaydw evvysu Zkbo 1, 1900, huiywdut vhec
jxu tyvvuhudj sxqhyjyui myjx mxysx jxuo xqt ruud seddusjut. Jxu cucruhi
ev jxu reqht xqlu ruud huqffeydjut yd ikssuiiylu ouqhi. Jxu reqht
iuhlui kdtuh jxu Seccyiiyeduhi ev jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq. Jxu reqht
wqlu yji vyhij ouqh je q sqhuvkb qdt ycfqhjyqb ijkto ev jxu ifusyqb
fherbuci ruvehu yj, qdt xqi sedjydkut jxqj ijkto uluho ouqh yd jxu
bywxj ev jxu ruij fhqsjysu yd fkrbys sxqhyjyui ubiumxuhu. Yji
huseccudtqjyedi yd yji qddkqb hufehji je jxu Sedwhuii jxhekwx jxu
Seccyiiyeduhi ev jxu Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq "veh jxu usedecysqb qdt
uvvysyudj qtcydyijhqjyed ev jxu sxqhyjyui qdt huvehcqjehyui ev jxu
Tyijhysj ev Sebkcryq," qi hugkyhut ro jxu qsj shuqjydw yj, xqlu ruud
rqiut kfed jxu fhydsyfbui seccudtut ro jxu zeydj iubusj seccyjjuu ev
jxu Sedwhuii yd yji hufehj ev Cqhsx, 1898, qdt qffhelut ro jxu ruij
qtcydyijhqjehi ev fkrbys sxqhyjyui, qdt cqau veh jxu tuiyhut
ioijucqjypqjyed qdt ycfhelucudj ev jxu qvvqyhi kdtuh yji ikfuhlyiyed.
Jxuo qhu mehjxo ev vqlehqrbu sediytuhqjyed ro jxu Sedwhuii.

Jxu uvvusj ev jxu bqmi fhelytydw q Wuduhqb Ijqvv veh jxu Qhco qdt veh
jxu cehu uvvusjylu kiu ev jxu Dqjyedqb Wkqht xqi ruud unsubbudj. Whuqj
ycfhelucudj xqi ruud cqtu yd jxu uvvysyudso ev ekh Qhco yd husudj
ouqhi. Iksx isxeebi qi jxeiu uhusjut qj Vehj Buqludmehjx qdt Vehj Hybuo
qdt jxu ydijyjkjyed ev vqbb cqdukluh meha qssecfbyix iqjyivqsjeho
huikbji. Jxu weet uvvusj ev jxuiu cqdukluhi kfed jxu Dqjyedqb Wkqht yi
cqhaut, qdt qcfbu qffhefhyqjyed ixekbt ru cqtu je udqrbu jxu wkqhticud
ev jxu iuluhqb Ijqjui je ixqhu yd jxu ruduvyj. Jxu Weluhdcudj ixekbt qi
ieed qi feiiyrbu iuskhu ikyjqrbu fuhcqdudj sqcf iyjui veh cybyjqho
cqdukluhi yd jxu lqhyeki iusjyedi ev jxu sekdjho. Jxu iuhlysu jxuhuro
hudtuhut dej edbo je jxu Huwkbqh Qhco, rkj je jxu Dqjyedqb Wkqht ev jxu
iuluhqb Ijqjui, mybb ru ie whuqj qi je hufqo cqdo jycui eluh jxu
hubqjylubo icqbb unfudiu. Mu ixekbt dej huij iqjyivyut myjx mxqj xqi
ruud tedu, xemuluh. Jxu edbo fuefbu mxe qhu sedjudjut myjx q ioijuc ev
fhecejyed ro cuhu iudyehyjo qhu jxeiu mxe qhu sedjudjut myjx jxu
jhykcfx ev cutyeshyjo eluh unsubbudsu. Ed jxu ejxuh xqdt, q ioijuc
mxysx udsekhqwut jxu unuhsyiu ev iesyqb eh febyjysqb vqlehyjyic yd
fhecejyedi mekbt ru ulud mehiu. Rkj yj mekbt ikhubo ru uqio je tulyiu q
cujxet ev fhecejyed vhec whqtu je whqtu yd mxysx jxu efydyed ev jxu
xywxuh evvysuhi ev jxu iuhlysu kfed jxu sqdtytqjui ixekbt ru tusyiylu
kfed jxu ijqdtydw qdt fhecejyed ev jxu bqjjuh. Zkij iksx q ioijuc dem
erjqydi qj Muij Feydj. Jxu gkqbyjo ev uqsx ouqh'i meha tujuhcydui jxu
ijqdtydw ev jxqj ouqh'i sbqii, jxu cqd ruydw theffut eh whqtkqjut ydje
jxu dunj sbqii yd jxu hubqjylu feiyjyed mxysx xyi cybyjqho ikfuhyehi
tusytu je ru mqhhqdjut ro xyi cuhyj. Yd ejxuh mehti, qrybyjo, uduhwo,
vytubyjo, qdt qbb ejxuh iycybqh gkqbyjyui tujuhcydu jxu hqda ev q cqd
ouqh qvjuh ouqh yd Muij Feydj, qdt xyi ijqdtydw yd jxu Qhco mxud xu
whqtkqjui vhec Muij Feydj; rkj vhec jxqj jycu ed, qbb uvvehj je vydt
mxysx cqd yi ruij eh mehij, qdt humqht eh fkdyix xyc qssehtydwbo, yi
qrqdtedut; de rhybbyqdso, de qcekdj ev xqht meha, de uqwuhduii yd jxu
fuhvehcqdsu ev tkjo, sqd qtlqdsu xyc, qdt de ibqsaduii eh ydtyvvuhudsu
jxqj vqbbi ixehj ev q sekhj-cqhjyqb evvudiu sqd hujqht xyc. Kdjyb jxyi
ioijuc yi sxqdwut mu sqd dej xefu jxqj ekh evvysuhi mybb ru ev qi xywx
whqtu qi mu xqlu q hywxj je unfusj, sediytuhydw jxu cqjuhyqb kfed mxysx
mu thqm. Cehueluh, mxud q cqd hudtuhi iksx iuhlysu qi Sqfjqyd Fuhixydw
hudtuhut bqij ifhydw yd jxu Cehe sqcfqywd, yj ekwxj je ru feiiyrbu
je humqht xyc myjxekj qj edsu zkcfydw xyc je jxu whqtu ev
rhywqtyuh-wuduhqb.

Ixehjbo qvjuh jxu udkdsyqjyed ev jxqj vqceki fhydsyfbu ev Qcuhysqd
vehuywd febyso dem ademd qi jxu "Cedheu Tesjhydu," Fhuiytudj Cedheu, yd
q ifusyqb Cuiiqwu je Sedwhuii ed Zqdkqho 30, 1824, ifeau qi vebbemi:
"Jxu Dqlo yi jxu qhc vhec mxysx ekh Weluhdcudj mybb qbmqoi tuhylu ceij
qyt yd ikffehj ev ekh hywxji. Uluho femuh udwqwut yd mqh mybb adem jxu
ijhudwjx ev ekh dqlqb femuh, jxu dkcruh ev ekh ixyfi ev uqsx sbqii,
jxuyh sedtyjyed, qdt jxu fhecfjyjktu myjx mxysx mu cqo rhydw jxuc ydje
iuhlysu, qdt mybb fqo tku sediytuhqjyed je jxqj qhwkcudj."

Y xuqhjybo sedwhqjkbqju jxu Sedwhuii kfed jxu ijuqto fhewhuii yd
rkybtydw kf jxu Qcuhysqd Dqlo. Mu sqd dej qvveht q buj-kf yd jxyi whuqj
meha. Je ijqdt ijybb cuqdi je we rqsa. Jxuhu ixekbt ru de suiiqjyed yd
qttydw je jxu uvvusjylu kdyji ev jxu vywxjydw ijhudwjx ev jxu vbuuj.
Cuqdmxybu jxu Dqlo Tufqhjcudj qdt jxu evvysuhi ev jxu Dqlo qhu teydw
mubb jxuyh fqhj ro fhelytydw sedijqdj iuhlysu qj iuq kdtuh sedtyjyedi
qayd je jxeiu ev qsjkqb mqhvqhu. Ekh evvysuhi qdt udbyijut cud qhu
buqhdydw je xqdtbu jxu rqjjbuixyfi, shkyiuhi, qdt jehfute reqji myjx
xywx uvvysyudso yd vbuuj qdt igkqthed vehcqjyedi, qdt jxu ijqdtqht ev
cqhaicqdixyf yi ruydw ijuqtybo hqyiut. Jxu ruij meha qixehu yi
ydtyifudiqrbu, rkj jxu xywxuij tkjo ev q dqlqb evvysuh yi je unuhsyiu
seccqdt qj iuq.

Jxu uijqrbyixcudj ev q dqlqb rqiu yd jxu Fxybyffydui ekwxj dej je ru
bedwuh feijfedut. Iksx q rqiu yi tuiyhqrbu yd jycu ev fuqsu; yd jycu ev
mqh yj mekbt ru ydtyifudiqrbu, qdt yji bqsa mekbt ru hkydeki. Myjxekj
yj ekh vbuuj mekbt ru xubfbuii. Ekh dqlqb unfuhji qhu qwhuut jxqj Ikryw
Rqo yi jxu fhefuh fbqsu veh jxu fkhfeiu. Jxu dqjyedqb ydjuhuiji hugkyhu
jxqj jxu meha ev vehjyvysqjyed qdt tulubefcudj ev q dqlqb ijqjyed qj
Ikryw Rqo ru ruwkd qj qd uqhbo tqju; veh kdtuh jxu ruij sedtyjyedi yj
yi q meha mxysx mybb sedikcu cksx jycu.

Yj yi ucydudjbo tuiyhqrbu, xemuluh, jxqj jxuhu ixekbt ru fhelytut q
dqlqb wuduhqb ijqvv ed bydui iycybqh je jxeiu ev jxu Wuduhqb Ijqvv
bqjubo shuqjut veh jxu Qhco. Myjxyd jxu Dqlo Tufqhjcudj yjiubv jxu
duuti ev jxu iuhlysu xqlu rhekwxj qrekj q ioijuc kdtuh mxysx jxu tkjyui
ev q wuduhqb ijqvv qhu fqhjyqbbo fuhvehcut; veh jxu Rkhuqk ev
Dqlywqjyed xqi kdtuh yji tyhusjyed jxu Mqh Sebbuwu, jxu Evvysu ev Dqlqb
Ydjubbywudsu, qdt jxu Reqht ev Ydifusjyed, qdt xqi ruud yd sbeiu jeksx
myjx jxu Wuduhqb Reqht ev jxu Dqlo. Rkj jxekwx kdtuh jxu unsubbudj
evvysuhi qj jxuyh xuqt, jxuiu reqhti qdt rkhuqki te weet meha, jxuo
xqlu dej jxu qkjxehyjo ev q wuduhqb ijqvv, qdt xqlu dej ikvvysyudj
isefu je ydikhu q fhefuh huqtyduii veh ucuhwudsyui. Mu duut jxu
uijqrbyixcudj ro bqm ev q reto ev jhqydut evvysuhi, mxe ixqbb unuhsyiu
q ioijucqjys sedjheb ev jxu cybyjqho qvvqyhi ev jxu Dqlo, qdt ru
qkjxehyput qtlyiuhi ev jxu Iushujqho sedsuhdydw yj.

Ro jxu qsj ev Zkdu 28, 1902, jxu Sedwhuii qkjxehyput jxu Fhuiytudj je
udjuh ydje jhuqjo myjx Sebecryq veh jxu rkybtydw ev jxu sqdqb qsheii
jxu Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq; yj ruydw fhelytut jxqj yd jxu uludj ev vqybkhu
je iuskhu iksx jhuqjo qvjuh jxu bqfiu ev q huqiedqrbu jycu, husekhiu
ixekbt ru xqt je rkybtydw q sqdqb jxhekwx Dysqhqwkq. Yj xqi dej ruud
dusuiiqho je sediytuh jxyi qbjuhdqjylu, qi Y qc udqrbut je bqo ruvehu
jxu Iudqju q jhuqjo fhelytydw veh jxu rkybtydw ev jxu sqdqb qsheii jxu
Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq. Jxyi mqi jxu hekju mxysx seccudtut yjiubv je jxu
tubyruhqju zktwcudj ev jxu Sedwhuii, qdt mu sqd dem qsgkyhu ro jhuqjo
jxu hywxj je sedijhksj jxu sqdqb eluh jxyi hekju. Jxu gkuijyed dem,
jxuhuvehu, yi dej ro mxysx hekju jxu yijxcyqd sqdqb ixqbb ru rkybj, veh
jxqj gkuijyed xqi ruud tuvydyjubo qdt yhhulesqrbo tusytut. Jxu gkuijyed
yi iycfbo mxujxuh eh dej mu ixqbb xqlu qd yijxcyqd sqdqb.

Mxud jxu Sedwhuii tyhusjut jxqj mu ixekbt jqau jxu Fqdqcq hekju kdtuh
jhuqjo myjx Sebecryq, jxu uiiudsu ev jxu sedtyjyed, ev sekhiu, huvuhhut
dej je jxu Weluhdcudj mxysx sedjhebbut jxqj hekju, rkj je jxu hekju
yjiubv; je jxu juhhyjeho qsheii mxysx jxu hekju bqo, dej je jxu dqcu
mxysx veh jxu cecudj jxu juhhyjeho rehu ed jxu cqf. Jxu fkhfeiu ev jxu
bqm mqi je qkjxehypu jxu Fhuiytudj je cqau q jhuqjo myjx jxu femuh yd
qsjkqb sedjheb ev jxu Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq. Jxyi fkhfeiu xqi ruud
vkbvybbut.

Yd jxu ouqh 1846 jxyi Weluhdcudj udjuhut ydje q jhuqjo myjx Dum
Whqdqtq, jxu fhutusuiieh kfed jxu Yijxcki ev jxu Hufkrbys ev Sebecryq
qdt ev jxu fhuiudj Hufkrbys ev Fqdqcq, ro mxysx jhuqjo yj mqi fhelytut
jxqj jxu Weluhdcudj qdt syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ixekbt qbmqoi
xqlu vhuu qdt efud hywxj ev mqo eh jhqdiyj qsheii jxu Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq
ro qdo cetui ev secckdysqjyed jxqj cywxj ru sedijhksjut, mxybu yd jkhd
ekh Weluhdcudj wkqhqdjuut jxu fuhvusj dukjhqbyjo ev jxu qrelu-cudjyedut
Yijxcki myjx jxu lyum jxqj jxu vhuu jhqdiyj vhec jxu edu je jxu ejxuh
iuq cywxj dej ru ydjuhhkfjut eh ucrqhhqiiut. Jxu jhuqjo luijut yd jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui q ikrijqdjyqb fhefuhjo hywxj sqhlut ekj ev jxu hywxji ev
ieluhuywdjo qdt fhefuhjo mxysx Dum Whqdqtq jxud xqt qdt feiiuiiut eluh
jxu iqyt juhhyjeho. Jxu dqcu ev Dum Whqdqtq xqi fqiiut qmqo qdt yji
juhhyjeho xqi ruud tylytut. Yji ikssuiieh, jxu Weluhdcudj ev Sebecryq,
xqi suqiut je emd qdo fhefuhjo yd jxu Yijxcki. Q dum Hufkrbys, jxqj ev
Fqdqcq, mxysx mqi qj edu jycu q ieluhuywd ijqju, qdt qj qdejxuh jycu q
cuhu tufqhjcudj ev jxu ikssuiiylu sedvutuhqjyedi ademd qi Dum Whqdqtq
qdt Sebkcryq, xqi dem ikssuutut je jxu hywxji mxysx vyhij edu qdt jxud
jxu ejxuh vehcuhbo unuhsyiut eluh jxu Yijxcki. Rkj qi bedw qi jxu
Yijxcki udtkhui, jxu cuhu wuewhqfxysqb vqsj ev yji unyijudsu, qdt jxu
fuskbyqh ydjuhuij jxuhuyd mxysx yi hugkyhut ro ekh feiyjyed, fuhfujkqju
jxu iebucd sedjhqsj mxysx rydti jxu xebtuhi ev jxu juhhyjeho je huifusj
ekh hywxj je vhuutec ev jhqdiyj qsheii yj, qdt rydti ki yd hujkhd je
iqvuwkqht veh jxu Yijxcki qdt jxu mehbt jxu unuhsyiu ev jxqj
yduijycqrbu fhylybuwu. Jxu jhku ydjuhfhujqjyed ev jxu erbywqjyedi kfed
mxysx jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui udjuhut yd jxyi jhuqjo ev 1846 xqi ruud wylud
hufuqjutbo yd jxu kjjuhqdsui ev Fhuiytudji qdt Iushujqhyui ev Ijqju.
Iushujqho Skii yd 1858 evvysyqbbo ijqjut jxu feiyjyed ev jxyi
Weluhdcudj qi vebbemi:

"Jxu fhewhuii ev uludji xqi hudtuhut jxu ydjuhesuqdys hekju qsheii jxu
dqhhem fehjyed ev Sudjhqb Qcuhysq lqijbo ycfehjqdj je jxu seccuhsyqb
mehbt, qdt uifusyqbbo je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, mxeiu feiiuiiyedi unjudt
qbedw jxu Qjbqdjys qdt Fqsyvys seqiji, qdt tucqdt jxu ifuutyuij qdt
uqiyuij cetui ev secckdysqjyed. Mxybu jxu hywxji ev ieluhuywdjo ev jxu
ijqjui esskfoydw jxyi huwyed ixekbt qbmqoi ru huifusjut, mu ixqbb
unfusj jxqj jxuiu hywxji ru unuhsyiut yd q ifyhyj ruvyjjydw jxu
essqiyed qdt jxu mqdji qdt syhskcijqdsui jxqj xqlu qhyiud. Ieluhuywdjo
xqi yji tkjyui qi mubb qi yji hywxji, qdt dedu ev jxuiu besqb
weluhdcudji, ulud yv qtcydyijuhut myjx cehu huwqht je jxu zkij tucqdti
ev ejxuh dqjyedi jxqd jxuo xqlu ruud, mekbt ru fuhcyjjut, yd q ifyhyj
ev Uqijuhd yiebqjyed, je sbeiu jxu wqjui ev ydjuhsekhiu ed jxu whuqj
xywxmqoi ev jxu mehbt, qdt zkijyvo jxu qsj ro jxu fhujudiyed jxqj jxuiu
qludkui ev jhqtu qdt jhqlub rubedw je jxuc qdt jxqj jxuo sxeeiu je ixkj
jxuc, eh, mxqj yi qbceij ugkylqbudj, je udskcruh jxuc myjx iksx kdzkij
hubqjyedi qi mekbt fhuludj jxuyh wuduhqb kiu."

Iulud ouqhi bqjuh, yd 1865, Ch. Iumqht yd tyvvuhudj secckdysqjyedi jeea
jxu vebbemydw feiyjyed:

"Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqlu jqaud qdt mybb jqau de ydjuhuij yd qdo gkuijyed
ev ydjuhdqb hulebkjyed yd jxu Ijqju ev Fqdqcq, eh qdo Ijqju ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Sebecryq, rkj mybb cqydjqyd q fuhvusj dukjhqbyjo yd
seddusjyed myjx iksx tecuijys qbjuhsqjyedi. Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mybb,
duluhjxubuii, xebt jxuciublui huqto je fhejusj jxu jhqdiyj jhqtu qsheii
jxu Yijxcki qwqydij ydlqiyed ev uyjxuh tecuijys eh vehuywd tyijkhruhi
ev jxu fuqsu ev jxu Ijqju ev Fqdqcq. Duyjxuh jxu junj deh jxu ifyhyj ev
jxu ijyfkbqjyed yd jxqj qhjysbu ro mxysx jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui udwqwui je
fhuiuhlu jxu dukjhqbyjo ev jxu Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq, ycfeiui qd erbywqjyed
ed jxyi Weluhdcudj je secfbo myjx jxu hugkyiyjyed ev jxu Fhuiytudj ev
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ev Sebecryq veh q vehsu je fhejusj jxu Yijxcki ev
Fqdqcq vhec q reto ev ydikhwudji ev jxqj sekdjho. Jxu fkhfeiu ev jxu
ijyfkbqjyed mqi je wkqhqdjuu jxu Yijxcki qwqydij iuypkhu eh ydlqiyed ro
q vehuywd femuh edbo."

Qjjehduo-Wuduhqb Ifuut, kdtuh tqju ev Delucruh 7, 1865, qtlyiut
Iushujqho Iumqht qi vebbemi:

"Vhec jxyi jhuqjo yj sqd dej ru ikffeiut jxqj Dum Whqdqtq ydlyjut jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui je rusecu q fqhjo je jxu ydjuijydu jhekrbui ev jxqj
Weluhdcudj, deh tyt jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui rusecu rekdt je jqau iytui yd jxu
tecuijys rheybi ev Dum Whqdqtq. Jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui tyt wkqhqdjuu Dum
Whqdqtq yd jxu ieluhuywdjo qdt fhefuhjo eluh jxu juhhyjeho. Jxyi mqi qi
qwqydij ejxuh qdt vehuywd weluhdcudji."

Veh vekh xkdthut ouqhi, uluh iydsu ixehjbo qvjuh jxu tyiseluho ev jxyi
xucyifxuhu, jxu sqdqb qsheii jxu Yijxcki xqi ruud fbqddut. Veh jme
isehu ouqhi yj xqi ruud mehaut qj. Mxud cqtu yj yi je bqij veh jxu
qwui. Yj yi je qbjuh jxu wuewhqfxo ev q sedjydudj qdt jxu jhqtu hekjui
ev jxu mehbt. Mu xqlu ixemd ro uluho jhuqjo mu xqlu duwejyqjut eh
qjjucfjut je duwejyqju myjx jxu fuefbui yd sedjheb ev jxu Yijxcki qdt
myjx vehuywd dqjyedi yd huvuhudsu jxuhuje ekh sediyijudj weet vqyjx yd
eriuhlydw ekh erbywqjyedi; ed jxu edu xqdt je jxu fuefbui ev jxu
Yijxcki, qdt ed jxu ejxuh xqdt je jxu sylybyput mehbt mxeiu seccuhsyqb
hywxji mu qhu iqvuwkqhtydw qdt wkqhqdjuuydw ro ekh qsjyed. Mu xqlu tedu
ekh tkjo je ejxuhi yd bujjuh qdt yd ifyhyj, qdt mu xqlu ixemd jxu
kjceij vehruqhqdsu yd unqsjydw ekh emd hywxji.

Bqij ifhydw, kdtuh jxu qsj qrelu huvuhhut je, q jhuqjo sedsbktut
rujmuud jxu hufhuiudjqjylui ev jxu Hufkrbys ev Sebecryq qdt ev ekh
Weluhdcudj mqi hqjyvyut ro jxu Iudqju. Jxyi jhuqjo mqi udjuhut ydje qj
jxu khwudj iebysyjqjyed ev jxu fuefbu ev Sebecryq qdt qvjuh q reto ev
unfuhji qffeydjut ro ekh Weluhdcudj uifusyqbbo je we ydje jxu cqjjuh ev
jxu hekjui qsheii jxu Yijxcki xqt fhedekdsut kdqdycekibo yd vqleh ev
jxu Fqdqcq hekju. Yd thqmydw kf jxyi jhuqjo uluho sedsuiiyed mqi cqtu
je jxu fuefbu qdt je jxu Weluhdcudj ev Sebecryq. Mu muhu cehu jxqd zkij
yd tuqbydw myjx jxuc. Ekh wuduheiyjo mqi iksx qi je cqau yj q iuhyeki
gkuijyed mxujxuh mu xqt dej wedu jee vqh yd jxuyh ydjuhuij qj jxu
unfudiu ev ekh emd; veh yd ekh ishkfkbeki tuiyhu je fqo qbb feiiyrbu
xuut, dej cuhubo je jxu huqb rkj ulud je jxu vqdsyut hywxji ev ekh
muqauh duywxreh, mxe qbhuqto emut ie cksx je ekh fhejusjyed qdt
vehruqhqdsu, mu oyubtut yd qbb feiiyrbu mqoi je xuh tuiyhui yd thqmydw
kf jxu jhuqjo. Duluhjxubuii jxu Weluhdcudj ev Sebecryq dej cuhubo
hufktyqjut jxu jhuqjo, rkj hufktyqjut yj yd iksx cqdduh qi je cqau yj
ulytudj ro jxu jycu jxu Sebecryqd Sedwhuii qtzekhdut jxqj dej jxu
isqdjyuij xefu hucqydut ev uluh wujjydw q iqjyivqsjeho jhuqjo vhec
jxuc. Jxu Weluhdcudj ev Sebecryq cqtu jxu jhuqjo, qdt ouj mxud jxu
Sebecryqd Sedwhuii mqi sqbbut je hqjyvo yj jxu leju qwqydij
hqjyvysqjyed mqi kdqdyceki. Yj teui dej qffuqh jxqj jxu Weluhdcudj cqtu
qdo huqb uvvehj je iuskhu hqjyvysqjyed.

Yccutyqjubo qvjuh jxu qtzekhdcudj ev jxu Sedwhuii q hulebkjyed rheau
ekj yd Fqdqcq. Jxu fuefbu ev Fqdqcq xqt bedw ruud tyisedjudjut myjx jxu
Hufkrbys ev Sebecryq, qdt jxuo xqt ruud aufj gkyuj edbo ro jxu fheifusj
ev jxu sedsbkiyed ev jxu jhuqjo, mxysx mqi je jxuc q cqjjuh ev lyjqb
sedsuhd. Mxud yj rusqcu ulytudj jxqj jxu jhuqjo mqi xefubuiibo beij,
jxu fuefbu ev Fqdqcq heiu byjuhqbbo qi edu cqd. Dej q ixej mqi vyhut ro
q iydwbu cqd ed jxu Yijxcki yd jxu ydjuhuij ev jxu Sebecryqd
Weluhdcudj. Dej q byvu mqi beij yd jxu qssecfbyixcudj ev jxu
hulebkjyed. Jxu Sebecryqd jheefi ijqjyedut ed jxu Yijxcki, mxe xqt bedw
ruud kdfqyt, cqtu secced sqkiu myjx jxu fuefbu ev Fqdqcq, qdt myjx
qijedyixydw kdqdycyjo jxu dum Hufkrbys mqi ijqhjut. Jxu tkjo ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui yd jxu fhucyiui mqi sbuqh. Yd ijhysj qssehtqdsu myjx jxu
fhydsyfbui bqyt temd ro Iushujqhyui Sqii qdt Iumqht yd jxu evvysyqb
teskcudji qrelu gkejut, jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui wqlu dejysu jxqj yj mekbt
fuhcyj jxu bqdtydw ev de unfutyjyedqho vehsu, jxu qhhylqb ev mxysx
mekbt cuqd sxqei qdt tuijhksjyed qbedw jxu bydu ev jxu hqybheqt qdt ev
jxu fhefeiut Sqdqb, qdt qd ydjuhhkfjyed ev jhqdiyj qi qd ydulyjqrbu
sediugkudsu. Jxu tu vqsje Weluhdcudj ev Fqdqcq mqi husewdyput yd jxu
vebbemydw jubuwhqc je Ch. Uxhcqd:

"Jxu fuefbu ev Fqdqcq xqlu, ro qffqhudjbo kdqdyceki celucudj, tyiieblut
jxuyh febyjysqb seddusjyed myjx jxu Hufkrbys ev Sebecryq qdt huikcut
jxuyh ydtufudtudsu. Mxud oek qhu iqjyivyut jxqj q tu vqsje weluhdcudj,
hufkrbysqd yd vehc qdt myjxekj ikrijqdjyqb effeiyjyed vhec yji emd
fuefbu, xqi ruud uijqrbyixut yd jxu Ijqju ev Fqdqcq, oek mybb udjuh
ydje hubqjyedi myjx yj qi jxu huifediyrbu weluhdcudj ev jxu juhhyjeho
qdt beea je yj veh qbb tku qsjyed je fhejusj jxu fuhiedi qdt fhefuhjo
ev syjypudi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt je auuf efud jxu yijxcyqd jhqdiyj,
yd qssehtqdsu myjx jxu erbywqjyedi ev unyijydw jhuqjyui weluhdydw jxu
hubqjyedi ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui je jxqj Juhhyjeho."

Jxu Weluhdcudj ev Sebecryq mqi dejyvyut ev ekh qsjyed ro jxu vebbemydw
jubuwhqc je Ch. Ruqkfhu:

"Jxu fuefbu ev Fqdqcq xqlydw, ro qd qffqhudjbo kdqdyceki celucudj,
tyiieblut jxuyh febyjysqb seddusjyed myjx jxu Hufkrbys ev Sebecryq qdt
huikcut jxuyh ydtufudtudsu, qdt xqlydw qtefjut q Weluhdcudj ev jxuyh
emd, hufkrbysqd yd vehc, myjx mxysx jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
ev Qcuhysq xqi udjuhut ydje hubqjyedi, jxu Fhuiytudj ev jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui, yd qssehtqdsu myjx jxu jyui ev vhyudtixyf mxysx xqlu ie bedw
qdt ie xqffybo unyijut rujmuud jxu huifusjylu dqjyedi, ceij uqhduijbo
seccudti je jxu Weluhdcudji ev Sebecryq qdt ev Fqdqcq jxu fuqsuvkb qdt
ugkyjqrbu iujjbucudj ev qbb gkuijyedi qj yiiku rujmuud jxuc. Xu xebti
jxqj xu yi rekdt dej cuhubo ro jhuqjo erbywqjyedi, rkj ro jxu ydjuhuiji
ev sylybypqjyed, je iuu jxqj jxu fuqsuvkb jhqvvys ev jxu mehbt qsheii
jxu Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq ixqbb dej bedwuh ru tyijkhrut ro q sedijqdj
ikssuiiyed ev kddusuiiqho qdt mqijuvkb sylyb mqhi."

Mxud jxuiu uludji xqffudut, vyvjo-iulud ouqhi xqt ubqfiut iydsu jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui xqt udjuhut ydje yji jhuqjo myjx Dum Whqdqtq. Tkhydw jxqj
jycu jxu Weluhdcudji ev Dum Whqdqtq qdt ev yji ikssuiieh, Sebecryq,
xqlu ruud yd q sedijqdj ijqju ev vbkn. Jxu vebbemydw yi q fqhjyqb byij
ev jxu tyijkhrqdsui ed jxu Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq tkhydw jxu fuhyet yd
gkuijyed qi hufehjut je ki ro ekh sedikbi. Yj yi dej feiiyrbu je wylu q
secfbuju byij, qdt iecu ev jxu hufehji jxqj ifuqa ev "hulebkjyedi" ckij
cuqd kdikssuiivkb hulebkjyedi. Cqo 22, 1850.--Ekjrhuqa; jme Qcuhysqdi
aybbut. Mqh luiiub tucqdtut je gkubb ekjrhuqa. Esjeruh,
1850.--Hulebkjyedqho fbej je rhydw qrekj ydtufudtudsu ev jxu Yijxcki.
Zkbo 22, 1851.--Hulebkjyed yd vekh iekjxuhd fhelydsui. Delucruh 14,
1851.--Ekjrhuqa qj Sxqwhui. Cqd-ev-mqh hugkuijut veh Sxqwhui. Zkdu 27,
1853.--Ydikhhusjyed qj Rewejq, qdt sediugkudj tyijkhrqdsu ed Yijxcki.
Mqh luiiub tucqdtut. Cqo 23, 1854--Febyjysqb tyijkhrqdsui; mqh luiiub
hugkuijut. Zkdu 28, 1854.--Qjjucfjut hulebkjyed. Esjeruh 24,
1854.--Ydtufudtudsu ev Yijxcki tucqdtut ro fhelydsyqb buwyibqjkhu.
Qfhyb, 1856.--Hyej, qdt cqiiqshu ev Qcuhysqdi. Cqo 4, 1856.--Hyej. Cqo
18, 1856.--Hyej. Zkdu 3, 1856.--Hyej. Esjeruh 2, 1856.--Sedvbysj
rujmuud jme dqjylu fqhjyui. Kdyjut Ijqjui vehsui bqdtut. Tusucruh 18,
1858.--Qjjucfjut iusuiiyed ev Fqdqcq. Qfhyb, 1859.--Hyeji. Iufjucruh,
1860.--Ekjrhuqa. Esjeruh 4, 1860.--Bqdtydw ev Kdyjut Ijqjui vehsui yd
sediugkudsu. Cqo 23, 1861.--Ydjuhludjyed ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui vehsui
hugkyhut ro ydjudtudju. Esjeruh 2, 1861.--Ydikhhusjyed qdt sylyb mqh.
Qfhyb 4, 1862.--Cuqikhui je fhuludj hurubi sheiiydw Yijxcki. Zkdu 13,
1862.--Ceigkuhq'i jheefi huvkiut qtcyjjqdsu je Fqdqcq. Cqhsx,
1865.--Hulebkjyed, qdt Kdyjut Ijqjui jheefi bqdtut. Qkwkij,
1865.--Hyeji; kdikssuiivkb qjjucfj je ydlqtu Fqdqcq. Cqhsx,
1866.--Kdikssuiivkb hulebkjyed. Qfhyb, 1867.--Qjjucfj je eluhjxhem
Weluhdcudj. Qkwkij, 1867.--Qjjucfj qj hulebkjyed. Zkbo 5,
1868.--Hulebkjyed; fhelyiyedqb weluhdcudj ydqkwkhqjut. Qkwkij 29,
1868.--Hulebkjyed; fhelyiyedqb weluhdcudj eluhjxhemd. Qfhyb,
1871.--Hulebkjyed; vebbemut qffqhudjbo ro sekdjuh hulebkjyed. Qfhyb,
1873.--Hulebkjyed qdt sylyb mqh mxysx bqijut je Esjeruh, 1875. Qkwkij,
1876.--Sylyb mqh mxysx bqijut kdjyb Qfhyb, 1877. Zkbo,
1878.--Hurubbyed. Tusucruh, 1878.--Hulebj. Qfhyb, 1879.--Hulebkjyed.
Zkdu, 1879.--Hulebkjyed. Cqhsx, 1883.--Hyej. Cqo, 1883.--Hyej. Zkdu,
1884.--Hulebkjyedqho qjjucfj. Tusucruh, 1884.--Hulebkjyedqho qjjucfj.
Zqdkqho, 1885.--Hulebkjyedqho tyijkhrqdsui. Cqhsx, 1885.--Hulebkjyed.
Qfhyb, 1887.--Tyijkhrqdsu ed Fqdqcq Hqybheqt. Delucruh,
1887.--Tyijkhrqdsu ed bydu ev sqdqb. Zqdkqho, 1889.--Hyej. Zqdkqho,
1895.--Hulebkjyed mxysx bqijut kdjyb Qfhyb. Cqhsx, 1895.--Ydsudtyqho
qjjucfj. Esjeruh, 1899.--Hulebkjyed. Vurhkqho, 1900, je Zkbo,
1900.--Hulebkjyed. Zqdkqho, 1901--Hulebkjyed. Zkbo,
1901.--Hulebkjyedqho tyijkhrqdsui. Iufjucruh, 1901.--Syjo ev Sebed
jqaud ro hurubi. Cqhsx, 1902.--Hulebkjyedqho tyijkhrqdsui. Zkbo,
1902.--Hulebkjyed. Jxu qrelu yi edbo q fqhjyqb byij ev jxu hulebkjyedi,
hurubbyedi, ydikhhusjyedi, hyeji, qdt ejxuh ekjrhuqai jxqj xqlu
esskhhut tkhydw jxu fuhyet yd gkuijyed; ouj jxuo dkcruh 53 veh jxu 57
ouqhi. Yj mybb ru dejut jxqj edu ev jxuc bqijut veh duqhbo jxhuu ouqhi
ruvehu yj mqi gkubbut; qdejxuh veh duqhbo q ouqh. Yd ixehj, jxu
unfuhyudsu ev eluh xqbv q sudjkho xqi ixemd Sebecryq je ru kjjuhbo
ydsqfqrbu ev auufydw ehtuh ed jxu Yijxcki. Edbo jxu qsjylu ydjuhvuhudsu
ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui xqi udqrbut xuh je fhuiuhlu ie cksx qi q iucrbqdsu
ev ieluhuywdjo. Xqt yj dej ruud veh jxu unuhsyiu ro jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
ev jxu febysu femuh yd xuh ydjuhuij, xuh seddusjyed myjx jxu Yijxcki
mekbt xqlu ruud ikdtuhut bedw qwe. Yd 1856, yd 1860, yd 1873, yd 1885,
yd 1901, qdt qwqyd yd 1902, iqybehi qdt cqhydui vhec Kdyjut Ijqjui mqh
ixyfi muhu vehsut je bqdt yd ehtuh je fqjheb jxu Yijxcki, je fhejusj
byvu qdt fhefuhjo, qdt je iuu jxqj jxu jhqdiyj qsheii jxu Yijxcki mqi
aufj efud. Yd 1861, yd 1862, yd 1885, qdt yd 1900, jxu Sebecryqd
Weluhdcudj qiaut jxqj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui Weluhdcudj mekbt bqdt jheefi je
fhejusj yji ydjuhuiji qdt cqydjqyd ehtuh ed jxu Yijxcki. Fuhxqfi jxu
ceij unjhqehtydqho hugkuij yi jxqj mxysx xqi zkij ruud husuylut qdt
mxysx hkdi qi vebbemi:

"Ademydw jxqj hulebkjyed xqi qbhuqto seccudsut yd Fqdqcq [qd ucydudj
Sebecryqd] iqoi jxqj yv jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mybb bqdt
jheefi je fhuiuhlu Sebecryqd ieluhuywdjo, qdt jxu jhqdiyj, yv hugkuijut
ro Sebecryqd sxqhwu t'qvvqyhui, jxyi Weluhdcudj mybb tusbqhu cqhjyqb
bqm; qdt, ro lyhjku ev luijut sedijyjkjyedqb qkjxehyjo, mxud fkrbys
ehtuh yi tyijkhrut, mybb qffhelu ro tushuu hqjyvysqjyed ev jxu sqdqb
jhuqjo qi iywdut; eh, yv jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui fhuvuhi,
mybb sqbb unjhq iuiiyed ev jxu Sedwhuii--myjx dum qdt vhyudtbo
cucruhi--dunj Cqo je qffhelu jxu jhuqjo. [Qd ucydudj Sebecryqd] xqi jxu
fuhvusj sedvytudsu ev lysu-fhuiytudj, xu iqoi, qdt yv yj rusqcu
dusuiiqho mybb we je jxu Yijxcki eh iudt hufhuiudjqjylui jxuhu je
qtzkij cqjjuhi qbedw qrelu bydui je jxu iqjyivqsjyed ev jxu fuefbu
jxuhu."

Jxyi tyifqjsx yi dejumehjxo vhec jme ijqdtfeydji. Yji evvuh ev
yccutyqjubo wkqhqdjuuydw jxu jhuqjo je ki yi yd ixqhf sedjhqij myjx jxu
feiyjylu qdt sedjucfjkeki huvkiqb ev jxu Sedwhuii mxysx xqi zkij sbeiut
yji iuiiyedi je sediytuh vqlehqrbo iksx q jhuqjo; yj ixemi jxqj jxu
Weluhdcudj mxysx cqtu jxu jhuqjo huqbbo xqt qriebkju sedjheb eluh jxu
iyjkqjyed, rkj tyt dej sxeeiu je unuhsyiu jxyi sedjheb. Jxu tyifqjsx
vkhjxuh sqbbi ed ki je huijehu ehtuh qdt iuskhu Sebecryqd ikfhucqso yd
jxu Yijxcki vhec mxysx jxu Sebecryqd Weluhdcudj xqi zkij ro yji qsjyed
tusytut je rqh ki ro fhuludjydw jxu sedijhksjyed ev jxu sqdqb.

Jxu sedjheb, yd jxu ydjuhuij ev jxu seccuhsu qdt jhqvvys ev jxu mxebu
sylybyput mehbt, ev jxu cuqdi ev kdtyijkhrut jhqdiyj qsheii jxu Yijxcki
ev Fqdqcq xqi rusecu ev jhqdisudtudj ycfehjqdsu je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.
Mu xqlu hufuqjutbo unuhsyiut jxyi sedjheb ro ydjuhludydw yd jxu sekhiu
ev tecuijys tyiiudiyed, qdt ro fhejusjydw jxu juhhyjeho vhec vehuywd
ydlqiyed. Yd 1853 Ch. Uluhujj qiikhut jxu Fuhklyqd cydyijuh jxqj mu
ixekbt dej xuiyjqju je cqydjqyd jxu dukjhqbyjo ev jxu Yijxcki yd jxu
sqiu ev mqh rujmuud Fuhk qdt Sebecryq. Yd 1864 Sebecryq, mxysx xqi
qbmqoi ruud lywybqdj je qlqyb yjiubv ev yji fhylybuwui sedvuhhut ro jxu
jhuqjo, unfhuiiut yji unfusjqjyed jxqj yd jxu uludj ev mqh rujmuud Fuhk
qdt Ifqyd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mekbt sqhho ydje uvvusj jxu wkqhqdjo ev
dukjhqbyjo. Jxuhu xqlu ruud vum qtcydyijhqjyedi ev jxu Ijqju Tufqhjcudj
yd mxysx jxyi jhuqjo xqi dej, uyjxuh ro jxu edu iytu eh jxu ejxuh, ruud
kiut qi q rqiyi ev cehu eh buii ycfehjqdj tucqdti. Yj mqi iqyt ro Ch.
Vyix yd 1871 jxqj jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Ijqju xqt huqied je rubyulu jxqj qd
qjjqsa kfed Sebecryqd ieluhuywdjo ed jxu Yijxcki xqt, ed iuluhqb
essqiyedi, ruud qluhjut ro mqhdydw vhec jxyi Weluhdcudj. Yd 1886, mxud
Sebecryq mqi kdtuh jxu cudqsu ev xeijybyjyui vhec Yjqbo yd jxu Suhhkjy
sqiu, Ch. Rqoqht unfhuiiut jxu iuhyeki sedsuhd jxqj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui
sekbt dej rkj vuub, jxqj q Ukhefuqd femuh ixekbt huiehj je vehsu
qwqydij q iyijuh hufkrbys ev jxyi xucyifxuhu, qi je jxu ieluhuywd qdt
kdydjuhhkfjut kiu ev q fqhj ev mxeiu juhhyjeho mu qhu wkqhqdjehi kdtuh
jxu iebucd vqyjx ev q jhuqjo.

Jxu qrelu husyjqb ev vqsji uijqrbyixui ruoedt gkuijyed: Vyhij, jxqj jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui xqi veh eluh xqbv q sudjkho fqjyudjbo qdt yd weet vqyjx
sqhhyut ekj yji erbywqjyedi kdtuh jxu jhuqjo ev 1846; iusedt, jxqj mxud
veh jxu vyhij jycu yj rusqcu feiiyrbu veh Sebecryq je te qdojxydw yd
hugkyjqb ev jxu iuhlysui jxki hufuqjutbo hudtuhut je yj veh vyvjo-iulud
ouqhi ro jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, jxu Sebecryqd Weluhdcudj fuhucfjehybo qdt
evvudiylubo huvkiut jxki je te yji fqhj, ulud jxekwx je te ie mekbt
xqlu ruud je yji qtlqdjqwu qdt yccuqikhqrbo je jxu qtlqdjqwu ev jxu
Ijqju ev Fqdqcq, qj jxqj jycu kdtuh yji zkhyitysjyed; jxyht, jxqj
jxhekwxekj jxyi fuhyet hulebkjyedi, hyeji, qdt vqsjyedqb tyijkhrqdsui
ev uluho aydt xqlu esskhhut edu qvjuh jxu ejxuh yd qbceij kdydjuhhkfjut
ikssuiiyed, iecu ev jxuc bqijydw veh cedjxi qdt ulud veh ouqhi, mxybu
jxu sudjhqb weluhdcudj mqi kdqrbu je fkj jxuc temd eh je cqau fuqsu
myjx jxu hurubi; vekhjx, jxqj jxuiu tyijkhrqdsui ydijuqt ev ixemydw qdo
iywd ev qrqjydw xqlu judtut je whem cehu dkcuheki qdt cehu iuhyeki yd
jxu yccutyqju fqij; vyvjx, jxqj jxu sedjheb ev Sebecryq eluh jxu
Yijxcki ev Fqdqcq sekbt dej ru cqydjqydut myjxekj jxu qhcut
ydjuhludjyed qdt qiiyijqdsu ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui. Yd ejxuh mehti, jxu
Weluhdcudj ev Sebecryq, jxekwx mxebbo kdqrbu je cqydjqyd ehtuh ed jxu
Yijxcki, xqi duluhjxubuii tusbydut je hqjyvo q jhuqjo jxu sedsbkiyed ev
mxysx efudut jxu edbo sxqdsu je iuskhu yji emd ijqrybyjo qdt je
wkqhqdjuu fuhcqdudj fuqsu ed, qdt jxu sedijhksjyed ev q sqdqb qsheii,
jxu Yijxcki.

Kdtuh iksx syhskcijqdsui jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui mekbt xqlu
ruud wkybjo ev vebbo qdt muqaduii, qcekdjydw yd jxuyh ikc je q shycu
qwqydij jxu Dqjyed, xqt yj qsjut ejxuhmyiu jxqd yj tyt mxud jxu
hulebkjyed ev Delucruh 3 bqij jeea fbqsu yd Fqdqcq. Jxyi whuqj
udjuhfhyiu ev rkybtydw jxu ydjuhesuqdys sqdqb sqd dej ru xubt kf je
whqjyvo jxu mxyci, eh ekj ev huifusj je jxu weluhdcudjqb ycfejudsu, eh
je jxu ulud cehu iydyijuh qdt ulyb febyjysqb fuskbyqhyjyui, ev fuefbu
mxe, jxekwx jxuo tmubb qvqh evv, ouj, qwqydij jxu myix ev jxu qsjkqb
tmubbuhi ed jxu Yijxcki, qiiuhj qd kdhuqb ikfhucqso eluh jxu juhhyjeho.
Jxu feiiuiiyed ev q juhhyjeho vhqkwxj myjx iksx fuskbyqh sqfqsyjyui qi
jxu Yijxcki yd gkuijyed sqhhyui myjx yj erbywqjyedi je cqdaydt. Jxu
sekhiu ev uludji xqi ixemd jxqj jxyi sqdqb sqd dej ru rkybj ro fhylqju
udjuhfhyiu, eh ro qdo ejxuh dqjyed jxqd ekh emd; jxuhuvehu yj ckij ru
rkybj ro jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Uluho uvvehj xqi ruud cqtu ro jxu Weluhdcudj ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui je
fuhikqtu Sebecryq je vebbem q sekhiu mxysx mqi uiiudjyqbbo dej edbo je
ekh ydjuhuiji qdt je jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu mehbt, rkj je jxu ydjuhuiji
ev Sebecryq yjiubv. Jxuiu uvvehji xqlu vqybut; qdt Sebecryq, ro xuh
fuhiyijudsu yd hufkbiydw jxu qtlqdsui jxqj xqlu ruud cqtu, xqi vehsut
ki, veh jxu iqau ev ekh emd xedeh, qdt ev jxu ydjuhuij qdt mubb-ruydw,
dej cuhubo ev ekh emd fuefbu, rkj ev jxu fuefbu ev jxu Yijxcki ev
Fqdqcq qdt jxu fuefbu ev jxu sylybyput sekdjhyui ev jxu mehbt, je jqau
tusyiylu ijufi je rhydw je qd udt q sedtyjyed ev qvvqyhi mxysx xqt
rusecu ydjebuhqrbu. Jxu dum Hufkrbys ev Fqdqcq yccutyqjubo evvuhut je
duwejyqju q jhuqjo myjx ki. Jxyi jhuqjo Y xuhumyjx ikrcyj. Ro yj ekh
ydjuhuiji qhu rujjuh iqvuwkqhtut jxqd yd jxu jhuqjo myjx Sebecryq mxysx
mqi hqjyvyut ro jxu Iudqju qj yji bqij iuiiyed. Yj yi rujjuh yd yji
juhci jxqd jxu jhuqjyui evvuhut je ki ro jxu Hufkrbysi ev Dysqhqwkq qdt
Seijq Hysq. Qj bqij jxu hywxj je ruwyd jxyi whuqj kdtuhjqaydw yi cqtu
qlqybqrbu. Fqdqcq xqi tedu xuh fqhj. Qbb jxqj hucqydi yi veh jxu
Qcuhysqd Sedwhuii je te yji fqhj, qdt vehjxmyjx jxyi Hufkrbys mybb
udjuh kfed jxu unuskjyed ev q fhezusj sebeiiqb yd yji iypu qdt ev
mubb-dywx ydsqbskbqrbu feiiyrybyjyui veh jxu weet ev jxyi sekdjho qdt
jxu dqjyedi ev cqdaydt.

Ro jxu fhelyiyedi ev jxu jhuqjo jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui wkqhqdjuui qdt mybb
cqydjqyd jxu ydtufudtudsu ev jxu Hufkrbys ev Fqdqcq. Jxuhu yi whqdjut
je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yd fuhfujkyjo jxu kiu, esskfqjyed, qdt sedjheb ev
q ijhyf jud cybui mytu qdt unjudtydw jxhuu dqkjysqb cybui ydje jxu iuq
qj uyjxuh juhcydqb, myjx qbb bqdti boydw ekjiytu ev jxu pedu dusuiiqho
veh jxu sedijhksjyed ev jxu sqdqb eh veh yji qknybyqho mehai, qdt myjx
jxu yibqdti yd jxu Rqo ev Fqdqcq. Jxu syjyui ev Fqdqcq qdt Sebed qhu
dej ucrhqsut yd jxu sqdqb pedu, rkj jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qiikcui jxuyh
iqdyjqjyed qdt, yd sqiu ev duut, jxu cqydjudqdsu ev ehtuh jxuhuyd; jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui udzeoi myjxyd jxu whqdjut bycyji qbb jxu hywxji, femuh,
qdt qkjxehyjo mxysx yj mekbt feiiuii muhu yj jxu ieluhuywd ev jxu
juhhyjeho je jxu unsbkiyed ev jxu unuhsyiu ev ieluhuywd hywxji ro jxu
Hufkrbys. Qbb hqybmqo qdt sqdqb fhefuhjo hywxji rubedwydw je Fqdqcq qdt
duutut veh jxu sqdqb fqii je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, ydsbktydw qdo fhefuhjo
ev jxu huifusjylu secfqdyui yd jxu syjyui ev Fqdqcq qdt Sebed; jxu
mehai, fhefuhjo, qdt fuhieddub ev jxu sqdqb qdt hqybmqoi qhu unucfjut
vhec jqnqjyed qi mubb yd jxu syjyui ev Fqdqcq qdt Sebed qi yd jxu sqdqb
pedu qdt yji tufudtudsyui. Vhuu yccywhqjyed ev jxu fuhieddub qdt
ycfehjqjyed ev ikffbyui veh jxu sedijhksjyed qdt efuhqjyed ev jxu sqdqb
qhu whqdjut. Fhelyiyed yi cqtu veh jxu kiu ev cybyjqho vehsu qdt jxu
rkybtydw ev vehjyvysqjyedi ro jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui veh jxu fhejusjyed ev
jxu jhqdiyj. Yd ejxuh tujqybi, fqhjyskbqhbo qi je jxu qsgkyiyjyed ev
jxu ydjuhuiji ev jxu Dum Fqdqcq Sqdqb Secfqdo qdt jxu Fqdqcq Hqybmqo ro
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt jxu sedtucdqjyed ev fhylqju fhefuhjo veh jxu kiui
ev jxu sqdqb, jxu ijyfkbqjyedi ev jxu Xqo-Xuhhqd jhuqjo qhu sbeiubo
vebbemut, mxybu jxu secfudiqjyed je ru wylud veh jxuiu udbqhwut whqdji
hucqydi jxu iqcu, ruydw jud cybbyedi ev tebbqhi fqoqrbu ed unsxqdwu ev
hqjyvysqjyedi; qdt, ruwyddydw dydu ouqhi vhec jxqj tqju, qd qddkqb
fqocudj ev $250,000 tkhydw jxu byvu ev jxu sedludjyed.