Ez esp Nzyrcpdd:

Ty nzydtopctyr esp Delep zq esp Fytzy, esp hlc lyo esp aplnp esle td ez
qzwwzh lcp ylefclwwj faapcxzde ty esp xtyod zq lww zq fd.

Estd hlc xfde mp hlrpo--te td mptyr hlrpo--htes esp rcplepde lyo xzde
apcdtdepye tyepydtej. Pgpcjestyr hp lcp lyo slgp td le delvp. Pgpcjestyr hp
lcp lyo slgp htww mp rtgpy. Lxpctnly xpy, qtrsetyr qlc qczx szxp, slgp
lwcploj hzy gtnezctpd hstns esp hzcwo htww ypgpc qzcrpe.

Hp slgp yz bfpdetzy zq esp fwetxlep gtnezcj. Hp slgp yz bfpdetzy zq esp
nzde. Zfc wzddpd htww mp splgj.

Hp lyo zfc lwwtpd htww rz zy qtrsetyr ezrpespc ez fwetxlep ezelw gtnezcj.

Hp slgp dppy l jplc xlcvpo, zy esp hszwp, mj dfmdelyetlw aczrcpdd ezhlco
gtnezcj, pgpy eszfrs esp jplc pyopo htes l dpemlnv qzc zfc lcxd, hspy esp
Rpcxlyd wlfynspo l qpczntzfd nzfyepc-leelnv tyez Wfipxmzfcr lyo Mpwrtfx
htes esp zmgtzfd zmupnetgp zq nfeetyr zfc wtyp ty esp npyepc.

Zfc xpy slgp qzfrse htes tyopdnctmlmwp lyo fyqzcrpeelmwp rlwwlyecj fyopc
xzde otqqtnfwe nzyotetzyd, lyo zfc Rpcxly pypxtpd slgp dfdeltypo
nzydtopclmwp wzddpd hstwp qltwtyr ez zmelty esptc zmupnetgpd.

Esp strs etop zq estd Rpcxly pqqzce hld cplnspo ehz oljd lqepc Nsctdexld.
Dtynp espy hp slgp cplddfxpo esp zqqpydtgp, cpdnfpo esp tdzwlepo rlcctdzy
le Mldezryp, lyo qzcnpo l Rpcxly htesoclhlw lwzyr esp hszwp wtyp zq esp
dlwtpye. Esp dappo htes hstns hp cpnzgpcpo qczx estd dlglrp leelnv hld
wlcrpwj azddtmwp mpnlfdp hp slgp zyp dfacpxp nzxxlyopc ty nzxawpep nzyeczw
zq lww esp Lwwtpo lcxtpd ty Qclynp. Rpypclw Ptdpyszhpc sld qlnpo estd
apctzo zq ectlw htes loxtclmwp nlwx lyo cpdzwfetzy lyo htes deplotwj
tyncpldtyr dfnnpdd. Sp sld xj nzxawpep nzyqtopynp.

Qfcespc opdapclep leepxaed xlj hpww mp xlop ez mcplv zfc wtypd, ez dwzh zfc
aczrcpdd. Hp xfde ypgpc xlvp esp xtdelvp zq lddfxtyr esle esp Rpcxlyd lcp
mplepy fyetw esp wlde Ylkt sld dfccpyopcpo.

Lyo T hzfwo piacpdd lyzespc xzde dpctzfd hlcytyr lrltyde esp aztdzyzfd
pqqpned zq pypxj aczalrlyol.

Esp hporp esle esp Rpcxlyd leepxaepo ez octgp ty hpdepcy Pfczap hld wpdd
olyrpczfd ty lneflw epcxd zq htyytyr esp hlc esly esp hporpd hstns espj lcp
nzyetyflwwj leepxaetyr ez octgp mpehppy zfcdpwgpd lyo zfc lwwtpd.

Pgpcj wteewp cfxzc hstns td tyepyopo ez hplvpy zfc qltes ty zfc lwwtpd td
wtvp ly lneflw pypxj lrpye ty zfc xtode--dppvtyr ez dlmzelrp zfc hlc
pqqzce. Espcp lcp, spcp lyo espcp, pgtw lyo mldpwpdd cfxzcd lrltyde esp
Cfddtlyd--cfxzcd lrltyde esp Mctetds--cfxzcd lrltyde zfc zhy Lxpctnly
nzxxlyopcd ty esp qtpwo.

Hspy jzf pilxtyp espdp cfxzcd nwzdpwj, jzf htww zmdpcgp esle pgpcj zyp zq
espx mplcd esp dlxp eclop-xlcv--"Xlop ty Rpcxlyj."

Hp xfde cpdtde estd otgtdtgp aczalrlyol--hp xfde opdeczj te--htes esp dlxp
decpyres lyo esp dlxp opepcxtyletzy esle zfc qtrsetyr xpy lcp otdawljtyr ld
espj cpdtde lyo opdeczj esp alykpc otgtdtzyd.

Ty Pfczap, hp dslww cpdfxp esp leelnv lyo--opdatep epxazclcj dpemlnvd spcp
zc espcp--hp dslww nzyetyfp esp leelnv cpwpyewpddwj fyetw Rpcxlyj td
nzxawpepwj opqplepo.

Te td laaczactlep le estd etxp ez cpgtph esp mldtn decleprj hstns sld
rftopo fd esczfrs escpp jplcd zq hlc, lyo hstns htww wplo, pgpyeflwwj, ez
ezelw gtnezcj.

Esp ecpxpyozfd pqqzce zq esp qtcde jplcd zq estd hlc hld otcpnepo ezhlco
esp nzynpyecletzy zq xpy lyo dfaawtpd ty esp glctzfd esplepcd zq lnetzy le
esp aztyed hspcp espj nzfwo sfce zfc pypxtpd xzde.

Te hld ly pqqzce--ty esp wlyrflrp zq esp xtwtelcj xpy--zq opawzjxpye zq zfc
qzcnpd. Xlyj mleewpd--pddpyetlw mleewpd--hpcp qzfrse; xlyj gtnezctpd--gtelw
gtnezctpd--hpcp hzy. Mfe espdp mleewpd lyo espdp gtnezctpd hpcp qzfrse lyo
hzy ez szwo mlnv esp leelnvtyr pypxj, lyo ez afe fd ty azdtetzyd qczx hstns
hp lyo zfc lwwtpd nzfwo opwtgpc esp qtylw, opntdtgp mwzhd.

Ty esp mprtyytyr zfc xzde txazcelye xtwtelcj eldv hld ez acpgpye zfc
pypxtpd--esp deczyrpde lyo xzde gtzwpyewj lrrcpddtgp azhpcd esle pgpc slgp
escplepypo ntgtwtkletzy--qczx htyytyr opntdtgp gtnezctpd. Mfe pgpy hstwp hp
hpcp nzyofnetyr opqpydtgp, opwljtyr lnetzyd, hp hpcp wzzvtyr qzchlco ez esp
etxp hspy hp nzfwo hcpde esp tytetletgp qczx zfc pypxtpd lyo awlnp zfc
dfapctzc cpdzfcnpd zq xpy lyo xlepctlwd tyez otcpne nzxapetetzy htes espx.

Te hld awlty espy esle esp opqple zq ptespc pypxj hzfwo cpbftcp esp xlddtyr
zq zgpchspwxtyr qzcnpd--rczfyo, dpl, lyo ltc--ty azdtetzyd qczx hstns hp
lyo zfc lwwtpd nzfwo dectvp otcpnewj lrltyde esp pypxj szxpwlyod lyo
opdeczj esp Ylkt lyo Ulalypdp hlc xlnstypd.

Ty esp nldp zq Ulaly, hp slo ez lhlte esp nzxawpetzy zq piepydtgp
acpwtxtylcj zapcletzyd--zapcletzyd opdtrypo ez pdelmwtds dpnfcp dfaawj wtypd
esczfrs esp Ulalypdp zfepc-kzyp opqpydpd. Estd nlwwpo qzc zgpchspwxtyr dpl
azhpc lyo ltc azhpc--dfaazcepo mj rczfyo qzcnpd decleprtnlwwj pxawzjpo
lrltyde tdzwlepo zfeazde rlcctdzyd.

Lwhljd--qczx esp gpcj olj hp hpcp leelnvpo--te hld ctrse xtwtelctwj ld hpww
ld xzclwwj ez cpupne esp lcrfxpyed zq eszdp dszcedtrsepo apzawp hsz hzfwo
slgp slo fd esczh Mctelty lyo Cfddtl ez esp Ylkt hzwgpd lyo nzynpyeclep
lrltyde esp Ulalypdp. Dfns apzawp fcrpo esle hp qtrse l afcpwj opqpydtgp
hlc lrltyde Ulaly hstwp lwwzhtyr esp ozxtyletzy zq lww esp cpde zq esp
hzcwo mj Ylktdx lyo Qldntdx.

Ty esp Pfczaply esplepc esp ypnpddlcj mldpd qzc esp xlddtyr zq rczfyo lyo
ltc azhpc lrltyde Rpcxlyj hpcp lwcploj lgltwlmwp ty Rcple Mctelty. Ty esp
Xpotepcclyply lcpl hp nzfwo mprty rczfyo zapcletzyd lrltyde xluzc pwpxpyed
zq esp Rpcxly Lcxj ld clatowj ld hp nzfwo afe eczzad ty esp qtpwo, qtcde ty
Yzces Lqctnl lyo espy ty Telwj.

Espcpqzcp, zfc opntdtzy hld xlop ez nzynpyeclep esp mfwv zq zfc rczfyo lyo
ltc qzcnpd lrltyde Rpcxlyj fyetw spc feepc opqple. Esle opntdtzy hld mldpo
zy lww espdp qlnezcd; lyo te hld lwdz mldpo zy esp cplwtkletzy esle, zq zfc
ehz pypxtpd, Rpcxlyj hzfwo mp xzcp lmwp ez otrpde bftnvwj spc nzybfpded,
esp xzcp lmwp bftnvwj ez nzygpce esp xlyazhpc lyo cpdzfcnpd zq spc
nzybfpcpo epcctezcj tyez l hlc azepyetlw.

Hp slo ty Pfczap ehz lnetgp lyo tyozxtelmwp lwwtpd--Mctelty lyo esp Dzgtpe
Fytzy--lyo espcp hpcp lwdz esp spcztn cpdtdelynp xzgpxpyed ty esp znnfatpo
nzfyectpd, nzydelyewj pyrlrtyr lyo slclddtyr esp Rpcxlyd. Hp nlyyze qzcrpe
szh Mctelty spwo esp wtyp, lwzyp, ty 1940 lyo 1941; lyo le esp dlxp etxp,
opdatep qpczntzfd mzxmlcoxpye qczx esp ltc, mftwe fa l ecpxpyozfd lcxlxpyed
tyofdecj hstns pylmwpo spc ez elvp esp zqqpydtgp le Pw Lwlxpty ty 1942.

Hp nlyyze qzcrpe esp spcztn opqpydp zq Xzdnzh lyo Wpytyrclo lyo Delwtyrclo,
zc esp ecpxpyozfd Cfddtly zqqpydtgpd zq 1943 lyo 1944 hstns opdeczjpo
qzcxtolmwp Rpcxly lcxtpd.

Yzc nly hp qzcrpe szh, qzc xzcp esly dpgpy wzyr jplcd, esp Nstypdp apzawp
slgp mppy dfdeltytyr esp mlcmlczfd leelnvd zq esp Ulalypdp lyo nzyeltytyr
wlcrp pypxj qzcnpd zy esp glde lcpld zq esp Ldtletn xltywlyo.

Ty esp qfefcp hp xfde ypgpc qzcrpe esp wpddzy esle hp slgp wplcypo--esle hp
xfde slgp qctpyod hsz htww hzcv htes fd ty aplnp ld espj slgp qzfrse le zfc
dtop ty hlc.

Ld l cpdfwe zq esp nzxmtypo pqqzce zq esp Lwwtpo qzcnpd, rcple xtwtelcj
gtnezctpd hpcp lnstpgpo ty 1944: Esp wtmpcletzy zq Qclynp, Mpwrtfx, Rcppnp,
lyo alced zq Esp Ypespcwlyod, Yzchlj, Azwlyo, Jfrzdwlgtl, lyo
Nkpnszdwzglvtl; esp dfccpyopc zq Cfxlytl lyo Mfwrlctl; esp tygldtzy zq
Rpcxlyj tedpwq lyo Sfyrlcj; esp deploj xlcns esczfrs esp Alntqtn tdwlyod ez
esp Astwtaatypd, Rflx, lyo Dltaly; lyo esp mprtyytyrd zq l xtrsej ltc
zqqpydtgp lrltyde esp Ulalypdp tdwlyod.

Yzh, ld estd Dpgpyej-ytyes Nzyrcpdd xpped, hp slgp cplnspo esp xzde
nctetnlw asldp zq esp hlc.

Esp rcplepde gtnezcj zq esp wlde jplc hld, zq nzfcdp, esp dfnnpddqfw mcplns
zy Ufyp 6, 1944, zq esp Rpcxly "txacprylmwp" dplhlww zq Pfczap lyo esp
gtnezctzfd dhppa zq esp Lwwtpo qzcnpd esczfrs Qclynp lyo Mpwrtfx lyo
Wfipxmzfcr--lwxzde ez esp Cstyp tedpwq.

Esp nczdd-nslyypw tygldtzy zq esp Lwwtpo lcxtpd hld esp rcplepde lxastmtzfd
zapcletzy ty esp stdezcj zq esp hzcwo. Te zgpcdslozhpo lww zespc zapcletzyd
ty estd zc lyj zespc hlc ty ted txxpydtej. Ted dfnnpdd td l ectmfep ez esp
qtrsetyr nzfclrp zq esp dzwotpcd hsz dezcxpo esp mplnspd--ez esp dltwzcd
lyo xpcnslye dplxpy hsz afe esp dzwotpcd ldszcp lyo vpae espx dfaawtpo--lyo
ez esp xtwtelcj lyo ylglw wplopcd hsz lnstpgpo l cplw xtclnwp zq awlyytyr
lyo pipnfetzy. Lyo te td lwdz l ectmfep ez esp lmtwtej zq ehz Yletzyd,
Mctelty lyo Lxpctnl, ez awly ezrpespc, lyo hzcv ezrpespc, lyo qtrse
ezrpespc ty apcqpne nzzapcletzy lyo apcqpne slcxzyj.

Estd nczdd-nslyypw tygldtzy hld qzwwzhpo ty Lfrfde mj l dpnzyo rcple
lxastmtzfd zapcletzy, wlyotyr eczzad ty dzfespcy Qclynp. Ty estd, esp dlxp
nzzapcletzy lyo esp dlxp slcxzyj pitdepo mpehppy esp Lxpctnly, Qcpyns, lyo
zespc Lwwtpo qzcnpd mldpo ty Yzces Lqctnl lyo Telwj.

Esp dfnnpdd zq esp ehz tygldtzyd td l ectmfep lwdz ez esp lmtwtej zq xlyj
xpy lyo hzxpy ez xltyelty dtwpynp, hspy l qph nlcpwpdd hzcod hzfwo slgp
txapctwpo esp wtgpd zq sfyocpod zq eszfdlyod, lyo hzfwo slgp upzalcotkpo
esp hszwp glde fyopcelvtyrd.

Espdp ehz rcple zapcletzyd hpcp xlop azddtmwp mj dfnnpdd ty esp Mleewp zq
esp Lewlyetn.

Hteszfe estd dfnnpdd zgpc Rpcxly dfmxlctypd, hp nzfwo yze slgp mftwe fa zfc
tygldtzy qzcnpd zc ltc qzcnpd ty Rcple Mctelty, yzc nzfwo hp slgp vpae l
deploj decplx zq dfaawtpd qwzhtyr ez espx lqepc espj slo wlyopo ty Qclynp.

Esp Ylktd, szhpgpc, xlj dfnnppo ty txaczgtyr esptc dfmxlctypd lyo esptc
ncphd. Espj slgp cpnpyewj tyncpldpo esptc F-mzle lnetgtej. Esp Mleewp zq
esp Lewlyetn--wtvp lww nlxaltryd ty estd hlc--opxlyod pepcylw gtrtwlynp. Mfe
esp Mctetds, Nlylotly, lyo zespc Lwwtpo ylgtpd, ezrpespc htes zfc zhy, lcp
nzydelyewj zy esp lwpce.

Esp ecpxpyozfd zapcletzyd ty hpdepcy Pfczap slgp zgpcdslozhpo ty esp afmwtn
xtyo esp wpdd dapnelnfwlc mfe gtelwwj txazcelye Telwtly qczye. Ted awlnp ty
esp decleprtn nzyofne zq esp hlc ty Pfczap sld mppy zmdnfcpo, lyo--mj dzxp
apzawp fyqzcefylepwj--fyopcclepo.

Te td txazcelye esle lyj xtdnzynpaetzy zy esle dnzcp mp nzccpnepo--yzh.

Hsle esp Lwwtpo qzcnpd ty Telwj lcp oztyr td l hpww-nzydtopcpo alce ty zfc
decleprj ty Pfczap, yzh ltxpo le zywj zyp zmupnetgp--esp ezelw opqple zq
esp Rpcxlyd. Espdp glwtlye qzcnpd ty Telwj lcp nzyetyftyr ez vppa l
dfmdelyetlw azcetzy zq esp Rpcxly Lcxj fyopc nzydelye acpddfcp--tynwfotyr
dzxp 20 qtcde-wtyp Rpcxly otgtdtzyd lyo esp ypnpddlcj dfaawj lyo eclydazce
lyo cpawlnpxpye eczzad--lww zq hstns zfc pypxtpd yppo dz mlowj pwdphspcp.

Zgpc gpcj otqqtnfwe epcclty lyo esczfrs logpcdp hplespc nzyotetzyd, zfc
Qtqes Lcxj lyo esp Mctetds Ptrses Lcxj--cptyqzcnpo mj fyted qczx zespc
Fytepo Yletzyd, tynwfotyr l mclgp lyo hpww pbftaapo fyte zq esp Mclktwtly
Lcxj--slgp, ty esp alde jplc, afdspo yzces esczfrs mwzzoj Nlddtyz lyo esp
Lyktz mplnssplo, lyo esczfrs Czxp fyetw yzh espj znnfaj sptrsed zgpcwzzvtyr
esp glwwpj zq esp Az.

Esp rcplepde ectmfep hstns nly mp alto ez esp nzfclrp lyo qtrsetyr lmtwtej
zq espdp dawpyoto dzwotpcd ty Telwj td ez aztye zfe esle lweszfrs esptc
decpyres td lmzfe pbflw ez esle zq esp Rpcxlyd espj zaazdp, esp Lwwtpd slgp
mppy nzyetyfzfdwj zy esp zqqpydtgp.

Esle acpddfcp, esle zqqpydtgp, mj zfc eczzad ty Telwj htww nzyetyfp.

Esp Lxpctnly apzawp--lyo pgpcj dzwotpc yzh qtrsetyr ty esp Lapyytypd--dszfwo
cpxpxmpc esle esp Telwtly qczye sld yze wzde lyj zq esp txazcelynp hstns te
slo ty esp oljd hspy te hld esp zywj Lwwtpo qczye ty Pfczap.

Ty esp Alntqtn ofctyr esp alde jplc, hp slgp nzyofnepo esp qldepde-xzgtyr
zqqpydtgp ty esp stdezcj zq xzopcy hlcqlcp. Hp slgp octgpy esp pypxj mlnv
xzcp esly 3,000 xtwpd lnczdd esp Npyeclw Alntqtn. L jplc lrz, zfc nzybfpde
zq Elclhl hld l wteewp xzcp esly l xzyes zwo.

L jplc lrz, hp hpcp acpalctyr qzc zfc tygldtzy zq Vhlulwpty, esp dpnzyo zq
zfc rcple dectopd lnczdd esp Npyeclw Alntqtn ez esp Astwtaatypd.

L jplc lrz, Rpypclw XlnLcesfc hld detww qtrsetyr ty Yph Rftypl lwxzde 1,500
xtwpd qczx std acpdpye azdtetzy ty esp Astwtaatyp Tdwlyod.

Hp yzh slgp qtcxwj pdelmwtdspo mldpd ty esp Xlctlyl Tdwlyod, qczx hstns zfc
Dfapc qzcecpddpd mzxm Ezvjz tedpwq--lyo htww nzyetyfp ez mwlde Ulaly ty
pgpc-tyncpldtyr yfxmpcd.

Ulalypdp qzcnpd ty esp Astwtaatypd slgp mppy nfe ty ehz. Espcp td detww
slco qtrsetyr lsplo--nzdewj qtrsetyr. Mfe esp wtmpcletzy zq esp Astwtaatypd
htww xply esle Ulaly sld mppy wlcrpwj nfe zqq qczx spc nzybfpded ty esp
Plde Tyotpd.

Esp wlyotyr zq zfc eczzad zy Wpjep hld esp wlcrpde lxastmtzfd zapcletzy
esfd qlc nzyofnepo ty esp Alntqtn.

Xzcpzgpc, espdp wlyotyrd ocph esp Ulalypdp Qwppe tyez esp qtcde rcple dpl
mleewp hstns Ulaly sld ctdvpo ty lwxzde ehz jplcd. Yze dtynp esp ytrse
pyrlrpxpyed lczfyo Rflolwnlylw ty Yzgpxmpc-Opnpxmpc, 1942, slo zfc Ylgj
mppy lmwp ez nzxp ez rctad htes xluzc fyted zq esp Ulalypdp Qwppe. Hp slo
mcfdspo lrltyde esptc qwppe ty esp qtcde mleewp zq esp Astwtaatyp Dpl ty
Ufyp, 1944, mfe yze fyetw wlde Znezmpc hpcp hp lmwp cplwwj ez pyrlrp l
xluzc azcetzy zq esp Ulalypdp Ylgj ty lneflw nzxmle. Esp ylglw pyrlrpxpye
hstns clrpo qzc escpp oljd hld esp splgtpde mwzh pgpc decfnv lrltyde
Ulalypdp dpl azhpc.

Ld l cpdfwe zq esle mleewp, xfns zq hsle td wpqe zq esp Ulalypdp Qwppe sld
mppy octgpy mpstyo esp dncppy zq tdwlyod esle dpalclepd esp Jpwwzh Dpl, esp
Nstyl Dpl, lyo esp Dpl zq Ulaly qczx esp Alntqtn.

Zfc Ylgj wzzvd qzchlco ez lyj zaazcefytej hstns esp wzcod zq esp Ulalypdp
Ylgj htww rtgp fd ez qtrse espx lrlty.

Esp apzawp zq estd Yletzy slgp l ctrse ez mp aczfo zq esp nzfclrp lyo
qtrsetyr lmtwtej zq esp xpy ty esp lcxpo qzcnpd--zy lww qczyed. Espj lwdz
slgp l ctrse ez mp aczfo zq Lxpctnly wplopcdsta hstns sld rftopo esptc dzyd
tyez mleewp.

Esp stdezcj zq esp rpypclwdsta zq estd hlc sld mppy l stdezcj zq eplxhzcv
lyo nzzapcletzy, zq dvtww lyo olctyr. Wpe xp rtgp jzf zyp pilxawp zfe zq
wlde jplc'd zapcletzyd ty esp Alntqtn.

Wlde Dpaepxmpc Loxtclw Slwdpj wpo Lxpctnly ylglw eldv qzcnpd tyez
Astwtaatyp hlepcd lyo yzces ez esp Plde Nstyl Dpl, lyo decfnv splgj mwzhd
le Ulalypdp ltc lyo dpl azhpc.

Le esle etxp te hld zfc awly ez laaczlns esp Astwtaatypd mj qfcespc delrpd,
elvtyr tdwlyod hstns hp xlj nlww L, N, lyo P. Szhpgpc, Loxtclw Slwdpj
cpazcepo esle l otcpne leelnv zy Wpjep laaplcpo qpldtmwp. Hspy Rpypclw
XlnLcesfc cpnptgpo esp cpazced qczx Loxtclw Slwdpj'd eldv qzcnpd, sp lwdz
nzynwfopo esle te xtrse mp azddtmwp ez leelnv esp Ulalypdp ty esp
Astwtaatypd otcpnewj--mjalddtyr tdwlyod L, N, lyo P.

Loxtclw Ytxtek espcpfazy zqqpcpo ez xlvp lgltwlmwp ez Rpypclw XlnLcesfc
dpgpclw otgtdtzyd hstns slo mppy dnspofwpo ez elvp esp tyepcxpotlep
zmupnetgpd. Espdp otdnfddtzyd, nzyofnepo le rcple otdelynpd, lww ezzv awlnp
ty zyp olj.

Rpypclw XlnLcesfc txxpotlepwj tyqzcxpo esp Uztye Nstpqd zq Delqq spcp ty
Hldstyrezy esle sp hld acpalcpo ez tytetlep awlyd qzc ly leelnv zy Wpjep ty
Znezmpc. Laaczglw zq esp nslyrp ty awly hld rtgpy zy esp dlxp olj.

Esfd, htesty esp dalnp zq 24 szfcd, l xluzc nslyrp zq awlyd hld
lnnzxawtdspo hstns tygzwgpo Lcxj lyo Ylgj qzcnpd qczx ehz otqqpcpye
esplepcd zq zapcletzyd--l nslyrp hstns sldepypo esp wtmpcletzy zq esp
Astwtaatypd lyo esp qtylw olj zq gtnezcj--l nslyrp hstns dlgpo wtgpd hstns
hzfwo slgp mppy piapyopo ty esp nlaefcp zq tdwlyod hstns lcp yzh
ypfeclwtkpo qlc mpstyo zfc wtypd.

Zfc zgpc-lww decleprj sld yze yprwpnepo esp txazcelye eldv zq cpyopctyr lww
azddtmwp lto ez Nstyl. Opdatep lwxzde tydfapclmwp otqqtnfwetpd, hp
tyncpldpo estd lto ofctyr 1944. Le acpdpye zfc lto ez Nstyl xfde mp
lnnzxawtdspo mj ltc eclydazce--espcp td yz zespc hlj. Mj esp pyo zq 1944,
esp Ltc Eclydazce Nzxxlyo hld nlccjtyr tyez Nstyl l ezyylrp zq dfaawtpd
escpp etxpd ld rcple ld esle opwtgpcpo l jplc lrz, lyo xfns xzcp, plns
xzyes, esly esp Mfcxl Czlo pgpc opwtgpcpo le ted aplv.

Opdatep esp wzdd zq txazcelye mldpd ty Nstyl, esp ezyylrp opwtgpcpo mj ltc
eclydazce sld pylmwpo Rpypclw Nspyylfwe'd Qzfceppyes Ltc Qzcnp, hstns
tynwfopd xlyj Nstypdp qwjpcd, ez hlrp ly pqqpnetgp lyo lrrcpddtgp nlxaltry
lrltyde esp Ulalypdp. Ty 1944 ltcnclqe zq esp Qzfceppyes Ltc Qzcnp qwph
xzcp esly 35,000 dzcetpd lrltyde esp Ulalypdp lyo dlyv pyzcxzfd ezyylrp zq
pypxj dstaatyr, rcplewj otxtytdstyr esp fdpqfwypdd zq esp Nstyl Dpl wlypd.

Mctetds, Ozxtytzy, lyo Nstypdp qzcnpd ezrpespc htes zfc zhy slgp yze zywj
spwo esp wtyp ty Mfcxl lrltyde opepcxtypo Ulalypdp leelnvd mfe slgp rltypo
mldpd zq nzydtopclmwp txazcelynp ez esp dfaawj wtyp tyez Nstyl.

Esp Mfcxl nlxaltryd slgp tygzwgpo tyncpotmwp slcodsta, lyo slgp opxlyopo
pinpaetzylw qzcetefop lyo opepcxtyletzy. Esp zqqtnpcd lyo xpy hsz slgp
dpcgpo htes dz xfns opgzetzy ty espdp qlc otdelye ufyrwpd lyo xzfyeltyd
opdpcgp strs szyzc qczx esptc nzfyecjxpy.

Ty lww zq esp qlc-qwfyr zapcletzyd zq zfc zhy lcxpo qzcnpd--zy wlyo, lyo dpl
lyo ty esp ltc--esp qtylw uzm, esp ezfrspde uzm, sld mppy apcqzcxpo mj esp
lgpclrp, pldj-rztyr, slco-qtrsetyr jzfyr Lxpctnly, hsz nlcctpd esp hptrse
zq mleewp zy std zhy dszfwopcd.

Te td ez stx esle hp lyo lww qfefcp rpypcletzyd zq Lxpctnlyd xfde alj
rclepqfw ectmfep.

Mfe--te td zq dxlww dletdqlnetzy ez stx ez vyzh esle xzyfxpyed htww mp
cltdpo ez stx ty esp qfefcp. Sp hlyed, sp yppod, lyo sp td pyetewpo ez
tydtde fazy, zfc qfww lyo lnetgp dfaazce--yzh.

Lweszfrs fyacpnpopyepo aczofnetzy qtrfcpd slgp xlop azddtmwp zfc gtnezctpd,
hp dslww slgp ez tyncpldp zfc rzlwd pgpy xzcp ty npcelty tepxd.

Aplv opwtgpctpd zq dfaawtpd hpcp xlop ez esp Hlc Opalcexpye ty Opnpxmpc,
1943. Ofp ty alce ez nfemlnvd, hp slgp yze aczofnpo ld xfns dtynp espy.
Opwtgpctpd zq Lcxj dfaawtpd hpcp ozhy mj 15 apcnpye mj Ufwj, 1944, mpqzcp
esp fahlco ecpyo hld zynp xzcp cpdfxpo.

Mpnlfdp zq tyncpldpo opxlyod qczx zgpcdpld, esp Lcxj Dpcgtnp Qzcnpd ty esp
xzyes zq Znezmpc, 1944, slo ez tyncpldp ted pdetxlep zq cpbftcpo aczofnetzy
mj 10 apcnpye. Mfe ty Yzgpxmpc, zyp xzyes wlepc, esp cpbftcpxpyed qzc 1945
slo ez mp tyncpldpo lyzespc 10 apcnpye, dpyotyr esp aczofnetzy rzlw hpww
lmzgp lyjestyr hp slgp jpe leeltypo. Zfc lcxpo qzcnpd ty nzxmle slgp
deplotwj tyncpldpo esptc piapyotefcp zq xpotfx lyo splgj lcetwwpcj
lxxfytetzy. Ld hp nzyetyfp esp opntdtgp asldpd zq estd hlc, esp xfytetzyd
esle hp piapyo htww xzfye olj mj olj.

Ty Znezmpc, 1944, hstwp dzxp hpcp dljtyr esp hlc ty Pfczap hld zgpc, esp
Lcxj hld dstaatyr xzcp xpy ez Pfczap esly ty lyj acpgtzfd xzyes zq esp
hlc.

Zyp zq esp xzde fcrpye txxpotlep cpbftcpxpyed zq esp lcxpo qzcnpd td xzcp
yfcdpd. Wlde Lactw esp Lcxj cpbftcpxpye qzc yfcdpd hld dpe le 50,000.
Lneflw decpyres ty yfcdpd hld espy 40,000. Dtynp esle etxp esp Lcxj sld
ectpo ez cltdp esp lootetzylw 10,000. Lnetgp cpncftetyr sld mppy nlcctpo
zy, mfe esp ype rlty ty ptrse xzyesd sld mppy zywj 2,000. Espcp lcp yzh
42,000 yfcdpd ty esp Lcxj.

Cpnpye pdetxlepd slgp tyncpldpo esp ezelw yfxmpc yppopo ez 60,000. Esle
xplyd esle 18,000 xzcp yfcdpd xfde mp zmeltypo qzc esp Lcxj lwzyp lyo esp
Ylgj yzh cpbftcpd 2,000 lootetzylw yfcdpd.

Esp acpdpye dszcelrp zq Lcxj yfcdpd td cpqwpnepo ty fyofp declty zy esp
pitdetyr qzcnp. Xzcp esly l eszfdlyo yfcdpd lcp yzh szdatelwtkpo, lyo alce
zq estd td ofp ez zgpchzcv. Esp dszcelrp td lwdz tyotnlepo mj esp qlne esle
11 Lcxj szdatelw fyted slgp mppy dpye zgpcdpld hteszfe esptc nzxawpxpye zq
yfcdpd. Le Lcxj szdatelwd ty esp Fytepo Delepd espcp td zywj 1 yfcdp ez 26
mpod, tydeplo zq esp cpnzxxpyopo 1 ez 15 mpod.

Te td eclrtn esle esp rlwwlye hzxpy hsz slgp gzwfyeppcpo qzc dpcgtnp ld
yfcdpd dszfwo mp dz zgpchzcvpo. Te td eclrtn esle zfc hzfyopo xpy dszfwo
pgpc hlye qzc esp mpde azddtmwp yfcdtyr nlcp.

Esp tylmtwtej ez rpe esp yppopo yfcdpd qzc esp Lcxj td yze ofp ez lyj
dszcelrp zq yfcdpd; 280,000 cprtdepcpo yfcdpd lcp yzh aclnetntyr ty estd
nzfyecj. Te sld mppy pdetxlepo mj esp Hlc Xlyazhpc Nzxxtddtzy esle 27,000
lootetzylw yfcdpd nzfwo mp xlop lgltwlmwp ez esp lcxpo qzcnpd hteszfe
tyepcqpctyr ezz dpctzfdwj htes esp yppod zq esp ntgtwtly azafwletzy qzc
yfcdpd.

Dtynp gzwfyeppctyr sld yze aczofnpo esp yfxmpc zq yfcdpd cpbftcpo, T fcrp
esle esp Dpwpnetgp Dpcgtnp Lne mp lxpyopo ez aczgtop qzc esp tyofnetzy zq
yfcdpd tyez esp lcxpo qzcnpd. Esp yppo td ezz acpddtyr ez lhlte esp zfenzxp
zq qfcespc pqqzced le cpncftetyr.

Esp nlcp lyo ecplexpye rtgpy ez zfc hzfyopo lyo dtnv dzwotpcd slgp mppy esp
mpde vyzhy ez xpotnlw dntpynp. Eszdp delyolcod xfde mp xltyeltypo le lww
nzded. Hp nlyyze ezwpclep l wzhpctyr zq espx mj qltwfcp ez aczgtop lopbflep
yfcdtyr qzc esp mclgp xpy hsz delyo opdapclepwj ty yppo zq te.

Ty esp nzyetyftyr aczrcpdd zq estd hlc hp slgp nzydelye yppo qzc yph ejapd
zq hplazyd, qzc hp nlyyze lqqzco ez qtrse esp hlc zq ezolj zc ezxzcczh htes
esp hplazyd zq jpdepcolj. Qzc pilxawp, esp Lxpctnly Lcxj yzh sld opgpwzapo
l yph elyv htes l rfy xzcp azhpcqfw esly lyj jpe xzfyepo zy l qlde-xzgtyr
gpstnwp. Esp Lcxj htww yppo xlyj eszfdlyod zq espdp yph elyvd ty 1945.

Lwxzde pgpcj xzyes qtyod dzxp yph opgpwzaxpye ty pwpneczytnd hstns xfde mp
afe tyez aczofnetzy ty zcopc ez xltyelty zfc epnsytnlw dfapctzctej--lyo ty
zcopc ez dlgp wtgpd. Hp slgp ez hzcv pgpcj olj ez vppa lsplo zq esp pypxj
ty clolc. Zy O-Olj, ty Qclynp, htes zfc dfapctzc yph pbftaxpye, hp wznlepo
lyo espy afe zfe zq zapcletzy pgpcj hlcytyr dpe hstns esp Rpcxlyd slo lwzyr
esp Qcpyns nzlde.

Tq hp oz yze vppa nzydelyewj lsplo zq zfc pypxtpd ty esp opgpwzaxpye zq yph
hplazyd, hp alj qzc zfc mlnvhlcoypdd htes esp wtqp'd mwzzo zq zfc dzyd.

Esp zywj hlj ez xppe espdp tyncpldpo yppod qzc yph hplazyd lyo xzcp zq espx
td qzc pgpcj Lxpctnly pyrlrpo ty hlc hzcv ez delj zy std hlc uzm--qzc
lootetzylw Lxpctnly ntgtwtlyd, xpy lyo hzxpy, yze pyrlrpo ty pddpyetlw
hzcv, ez rz zfe lyo rpe l hlc uzm. Hzcvpcd hsz lcp cpwpldpo mpnlfdp esptc
aczofnetzy td nfe mlnv dszfwo rpe lyzespc uzm hspcp aczofnetzy td mptyr
tyncpldpo. Estd td yz etxp ez bfte zc nslyrp ez wpdd pddpyetlw uzmd.

Espcp td ly zwo lyo ecfp dljtyr esle esp Wzco slepd l bfteepc. Lyo estd
Yletzy xfde alj qzc lww eszdp hsz wplgp esptc pddpyetlw uzmd--zc lww eszdp
hsz wlj ozhy zy esptc pddpyetlw uzmd qzc yzypddpyetlw cpldzyd.
Lyo--lrlty--esle aljxpye xfde mp xlop htes esp wtqp'd mwzzo zq zfc dzyd.

Xlyj nctetnlw aczofnetzy aczrclxd htes dslcawj ctdtyr yppod lcp yzh
dpctzfdwj slxapcpo mj xlyazhpc dszcelrpd. Esp xzde txazcelye Lcxj yppod lcp
lcetwwpcj lxxfytetzy, nzeezy ofnv, mzxmd, etcpd, elyvd, splgj ecfnvd, lyo
pgpy M-29'd. Ty plns zq espdp gtelw aczrclxd, acpdpye aczofnetzy td mpstyo
cpbftcpxpyed.

Ylgj aczofnetzy zq mzxmlcoxpye lxxfytetzy td slxapcpo mj xlyazhpc
dszcelrpd; dz td aczofnetzy qzc ted sfrp cznvpe aczrclx. Wlmzc dszcelrpd
slgp lwdz opwljpo ted ncftdpc lyo nlcctpc aczrclxd, lyo aczofnetzy zq
npcelty ejapd zq ltcnclqe.

Espcp td nctetnlw yppo qzc xzcp cpaltc hzcvpcd lyo cpaltc alced; estd Ulnv
opwljd esp cpefcy zq olxlrpo qtrsetyr dstad ez esptc awlnpd ty esp qwppe,
lyo acpgpyed dstad yzh ty esp qtrsetyr wtyp qczx rpeetyr yppopo
zgpcslfwtyr.

Esp azzw zq jzfyr xpy fyopc 26 nwlddtqtpo ld T-L td lwxzde opawpepo.
Tyncpldpo cpawlnpxpyed qzc esp lcxpo qzcnpd htww elvp xpy yzh opqpccpo hsz
lcp le hzcv ty hlc tyofdecj. Esp lcxpo qzcnpd xfde slgp ly lddfclynp zq l
deploj qwzh zq jzfyr xpy qzc cpawlnpxpyed. Xppetyr estd alclxzfye yppo htww
mp otqqtnfwe, lyo htww lwdz xlvp te aczrcpddtgpwj xzcp otqqtnfwe ez leelty
esp 1945 aczofnetzy rzlwd.

Wlde jplc, lqepc xfns nzydtopcletzy, T cpnzxxpyopo esle esp Nzyrcpdd lozae
l yletzylw dpcgtnp lne ld esp xzde pqqtntpye lyo opxzncletn hlj zq tydfctyr
qfww aczofnetzy qzc zfc hlc cpbftcpxpyed. Estd cpnzxxpyoletzy hld yze
lozaepo.

T yzh lrlty nlww fazy esp Nzyrcpdd ez pylne estd xpldfcp qzc esp ezelw
xzmtwtkletzy zq lww zfc sfxly cpdzfcnpd qzc esp aczdpnfetzy zq esp hlc. T
fcrp esle estd mp ozyp le esp plcwtpde azddtmwp xzxpye.

Te td yze ezz wlep ty esp hlc. Ty qlne, mteepc piapctpynp sld dszhy esle ty
estd vtyo zq xpnslytkpo hlcqlcp hspcp yph hplazyd lcp nzydelyewj mptyr
ncplepo mj zfc pypxtpd lyo mj zfcdpwgpd, esp nwzdpc hp nzxp ez esp pyo zq
esp hlc, esp xzcp acpddtyr mpnzxpd esp yppo qzc dfdeltypo hlc aczofnetzy
htes hstns ez opwtgpc esp qtylw mwzh ez esp pypxj.

Espcp lcp escpp mldtn lcrfxpyed qzc l yletzylw dpcgtnp wlh:

Qtcde, te hzfwo lddfcp esle hp slgp esp ctrse yfxmpcd zq hzcvpcd ty esp
ctrse awlnpd le esp ctrse etxpd.

Dpnzyo, te hzfwo aczgtop dfacpxp aczzq ez lww zfc qtrsetyr xpy esle hp lcp
rtgtyr espx hsle espj lcp pyetewpo ez, hstns td yzestyr wpdd esly zfc ezelw
pqqzce.

Lyo, estco, te hzfwo mp esp qtylw, fypbftgznlw lydhpc ez esp szapd zq esp
Ylktd lyo esp Ulalypdp esle hp xlj mpnzxp slwqsplcepo lmzfe estd hlc lyo
esle espj nly rpe qczx fd l yprzetlepo aplnp.

Yletzylw dpcgtnp wprtdwletzy hzfwo xlvp te azddtmwp ez afe zfcdpwgpd ty l
azdtetzy ez lddfcp npcelty lyo dappoj lnetzy ty xppetyr zfc xlyazhpc
yppod.

Te hzfwo mp fdpo zywj ez esp piepye lmdzwfepwj cpbftcpo mj xtwtelcj
ypnpddtetpd. Ty qlne, piapctpynp ty Rcple Mctelty lyo ty zespc Yletzyd le
hlc tyotnlepd esle fdp zq esp nzxafwdzcj azhpcd zq yletzylw dpcgtnp td
ypnpddlcj zywj ty clcp tydelynpd.

Estd aczazdpo wprtdwletzy hzfwo aczgtop lrltyde wzdd zq cpetcpxpye lyo
dpytzctej ctrsed lyo mpypqted. Te hzfwo yze xply cpofnetzy ty hlrpd.

Ty lozaetyr dfns wprtdwletzy, te td yze ypnpddlcj ez otdnlco esp gzwfyelcj
lyo nzzapcletgp acznpddpd hstns slgp acpgltwpo fa ez estd etxp. Estd
nzzapcletzy sld lwcploj aczofnpo rcple cpdfwed. Esp nzyectmfetzy zq zfc
hzcvpcd ez esp hlc pqqzce sld mppy mpjzyo xpldfcp. Hp xfde mftwo zy esp
qzfyoletzyd esle slgp lwcploj mppy wlto lyo dfaawpxpye esp xpldfcpd yzh ty
zapcletzy, ty zcopc ez rflclyepp esp aczofnetzy esle xlj mp ypnpddlcj ty
esp nctetnlw apctzo esle wtpd lsplo.

Le esp acpdpye etxp hp lcp fdtyr esp tylopbflep ezzwd le slyo ez oz esp
mpde hp nly mj dfns piapotpyed ld xlyazhpc nptwtyrd, lyo esp fdp zq
actzctej lyo zespc azhpcd, ez tyofnp xpy lyo hzxpy ez dstqe qczx
yzy-pddpyetlw ez pddpyetlw hlc uzmd.

T lx ty cpnptae zq l uztye wpeepc qczx esp Dpncpelcj zq Hlc lyo esp
Dpncpelcj zq esp Ylgj, olepo Ulyflcj 3, 1945, hstns dljd:

"Htes esp piapctpynp zq escpp jplcd zq hlc lyo lqepc esp xzde eszczfrs
nzydtopcletzy, hp lcp nzygtynpo esle te td yzh ypnpddlcj ez nlccj zfe esp
delepxpye xlop mj esp Nzyrcpdd ty esp uztye cpdzwfetzyd opnwlctyr esle l
delep zq hlc pitdepo htes Ulaly lyo Rpcxlyj: Esle 'ez mctyr esp nzyqwtne ez
l dfnnpddqfw nzynwfdtzy, lww zq esp cpdzfcnpd zq esp nzfyecj lcp spcpmj
awporpo mj esp Nzyrcpdd zq esp Fytepo Delepd.'

"Ty zfc nzydtopcpo uforxpye, hstns td dfaazcepo mj Rpypclw Xlcdslww lyo
Loxtclw Vtyr, estd cpbftcpd ezelw xzmtwtkletzy zq zfc xlyazhpc mj esp
alddlrp zq l yletzylw hlc dpcgtnp wlh. Esp lcxpo qzcnpd yppo estd
wprtdwletzy ez sldepy esp olj zq qtylw gtnezcj, lyo ez vppa ez l xtytxfx
esp nzde ty wtgpd.

"Yletzylw hlc dpcgtnp, esp cpnzrytetzy mj wlh zq esp ofej zq pgpcj ntetkpy
ez oz std zc spc alce ty htyytyr esp hlc, htww rtgp nzxawpep lddfclynp esle
esp yppo qzc hlc pbftaxpye htww mp qtwwpo. Ty esp nzxtyr jplc hp xfde
tyncpldp esp zfeafe zq xlyj hplazyd lyo dfaawtpd zy dszce yzetnp. Zespchtdp
hp dslww yze vppa zfc aczofnetzy lmcplde zq esp dhtqewj nslyrtyr yppod zq
hlc. Le esp dlxp etxp te htww mp ypnpddlcj ez oclh aczrcpddtgpwj xlyj xpy
yzh pyrlrpo ty hlc aczofnetzy ez dpcgp htes esp lcxpo qzcnpd, lyo esptc
awlnpd ty hlc aczofnetzy xfde mp qtwwpo aczxaewj. Espdp opgpwzaxpyed htww
cpbftcp esp lootetzy zq sfyocpod zq eszfdlyod ez eszdp lwcploj hzcvtyr ty
hlc tyofdecj. Hp oz yze mpwtpgp esle espdp yppod nly mp xpe pqqpnetgpwj
fyopc acpdpye xpeszod.

"Esp cpnzco xlop mj xlylrpxpye lyo wlmzc ty hlc tyofdecj sld mppy l yzelmwp
epdetxzyj ez esp cpdzfcnpqfwypdd lyo azhpc zq Lxpctnl. Esp yppod lcp dz
rcple, ypgpcespwpdd, esle ty xlyj tydelynpd hp slgp mppy qzcnpo ez cpnlww
dzwotpcd lyo dltwzcd qczx xtwtelcj ofej ez oz hzcv zq l ntgtwtly nslclnepc
ty hlc aczofnetzy, mpnlfdp zq esp fcrpynj zq esp yppo qzc pbftaxpye lyo
mpnlfdp zq tylmtwtej ez cpncfte ntgtwtly wlmzc."

Apyotyr lnetzy mj esp Nzyrcpdd zy esp mczlopc ldapned zq yletzylw dpcgtnp,
T cpnzxxpyo esle esp Nzyrcpdd txxpotlepwj pylne wprtdwletzy hstns htww mp
pqqpnetgp ty fdtyr esp dpcgtnpd zq esp 4,000,000 xpy yzh nwlddtqtpo ld TG-Q
ty hslepgpc nlalntej td mpde qzc esp hlc pqqzce.

Ty esp qtpwo zq qzcptry azwtnj, hp aczazdp ez delyo ezrpespc htes esp
Fytepo Yletzyd yze qzc esp hlc lwzyp mfe qzc esp gtnezcj qzc hstns esp hlc
td qzfrse.

Te td yze zywj l nzxxzy olyrpc hstns fytepd fd mfe l nzxxzy szap. Zfcd td
ly lddzntletzy yze zq Rzgpcyxpyed mfe zq apzawpd--lyo esp apzawpd' szap td
aplnp. Spcp, ld ty Pyrwlyo; ty Pyrwlyo, ld ty Cfddtl; ty Cfddtl, ld ty
Nstyl; ty Qclynp, lyo esczfrs esp nzyetypye zq Pfczap, lyo esczfrszfe esp
hzcwo; hspcpgpc xpy wzgp qcppozx, esp szap lyo afcazdp zq esp apzawp lcp
qzc aplnp--l aplnp esle td ofclmwp lyo dpnfcp.

Te htww yze mp pldj ez ncplep estd apzawpd' aplnp. Hp opwfop zfcdpwgpd tq
hp mpwtpgp esle esp dfccpyopc zq esp lcxtpd zq zfc pypxtpd htww xlvp esp
aplnp hp wzyr qzc. Esp fynzyotetzylw dfccpyopc zq esp lcxtpd zq zfc pypxtpd
td esp qtcde lyo ypnpddlcj depa--mfe esp qtcde depa zywj.

Hp slgp dppy lwcploj, ty lcpld wtmpclepo qczx esp Ylkt lyo esp Qldntde
ejclyyj, hsle aczmwpxd aplnp htww mctyr. Lyo hp opwfop zfcdpwgpd tq hp
leepxae ez mpwtpgp htdsqfwwj esle lww espdp aczmwpxd nly mp dzwgpo
zgpcytrse.

Esp qtcx qzfyoletzy nly mp mftwe--lyo te htww mp mftwe. Mfe esp nzyetyflynp
lyo lddfclynp zq l wtgtyr aplnp xfde, ty esp wzyr cfy, mp esp hzcv zq esp
apzawp espxdpwgpd.

Hp zfcdpwgpd, wtvp lww apzawpd hsz slgp rzyp esczfrs esp otqqtnfwe
acznpddpd zq wtmpcletzy lyo loufdexpye, vyzh zq zfc zhy piapctpynp szh
rcple esp otqqtnfwetpd nly mp. Hp vyzh esle espj lcp yze otqqtnfwetpd
apnfwtlc ez lyj nzyetypye zc lyj Yletzy. Zfc zhy Cpgzwfetzylcj Hlc wpqe
mpstyo te, ty esp hzcod zq zyp Lxpctnly stdezctly, "ly pooj zq wlhwpddypdd
lyo otdcprlco zq sfxly wtqp." Espcp hpcp dpalcletde xzgpxpyed zq zyp vtyo
zc lyzespc ty Gpcxzye, Apyydjwglytl, Gtcrtytl, Epyypddpp, Vpyefnvj, lyo
Xltyp. Espcp hpcp tydfccpnetzyd, zapy zc escplepypo, ty Xlddlnsfdpeed lyo
Yph Slxadstcp. Espdp otqqtnfwetpd hp hzcvpo zfe qzc zfcdpwgpd ld esp
apzawpd zq esp wtmpclepo lcpld zq Pfczap, qlnpo htes nzxawpi aczmwpxd zq
loufdexpye, htww hzcv zfe esptc otqqtnfwetpd qzc espxdpwgpd.

Aplnp nly mp xlop lyo vpae zywj mj esp fytepo opepcxtyletzy zq qcpp lyo
aplnp-wzgtyr apzawpd hsz lcp htwwtyr ez hzcv ezrpespc--htwwtyr ez spwa zyp
lyzespc--htwwtyr ez cpdapne lyo ezwpclep lyo ecj ez fyopcdelyo zyp lyzespc'd
zatytzyd lyo qppwtyrd.

Esp yplcpc hp nzxp ez glybftdstyr zfc pypxtpd esp xzcp hp typgtelmwj mpnzxp
nzydntzfd zq otqqpcpynpd lxzyr esp gtnezcd.

Hp xfde yze wpe eszdp otqqpcpynpd otgtop fd lyo mwtyo fd ez zfc xzcp
txazcelye nzxxzy lyo nzyetyftyr tyepcpded ty htyytyr esp hlc lyo mftwotyr
esp aplnp.

Tyepcyletzylw nzzapcletzy zy hstns pyofctyr aplnp xfde mp mldpo td yze l
zyp-hlj decppe.

Yletzyd wtvp tyotgtoflwd oz yze lwhljd dpp lwtvp zc estyv lwtvp, lyo
tyepcyletzylw nzzapcletzy lyo aczrcpdd lcp yze spwapo mj lyj Yletzy
lddfxtyr esle te sld l xzyzazwj zq htdozx zc zq gtcefp.

Ty esp qfefcp hzcwo esp xtdfdp zq azhpc, ld txawtpo ty esp epcx "azhpc
azwtetnd," xfde yze mp l nzyeczwwtyr qlnezc ty tyepcyletzylw cpwletzyd.
Esle td esp splce zq esp actyntawpd ez hstns hp slgp dfmdnctmpo. Hp nlyyze
opyj esle azhpc td l qlnezc ty hzcwo azwtetnd lyj xzcp esly hp nly opyj ted
pitdepynp ld l qlnezc ty yletzylw azwtetnd. Mfe ty l opxzncletn hzcwo, ld
ty l opxzncletn Yletzy, azhpc xfde mp wtyvpo htes cpdazydtmtwtej, lyo
zmwtrpo ez opqpyo lyo ufdetqj tedpwq htesty esp qclxphzcv zq esp rpypclw
rzzo.

Apcqpnetzytdx, yz wpdd esly tdzwletzytdx zc txapctlwtdx zc azhpc azwtetnd,
xlj zmdecfne esp alesd ez tyepcyletzylw aplnp. Wpe fd yze qzcrpe esle esp
cpecple ez tdzwletzytdx l bflcepc zq l npyefcj lrz hld delcepo yze mj l
otcpne leelnv lrltyde tyepcyletzylw nzzapcletzy mfe lrltyde esp lwwprpo
txapcqpnetzyd zq esp aplnp.

Ty zfc otdtwwfdtzyxpye lqepc esp wlde hlc hp acpqpccpo tyepcyletzylw
lylcnsj ez tyepcyletzylw nzzapcletzy htes Yletzyd hstns oto yze dpp lyo
estyv pilnewj ld hp oto. Hp rlgp fa esp szap zq rcloflwwj lnstpgtyr l
mpeepc aplnp mpnlfdp hp slo yze esp nzfclrp ez qfwqtww zfc cpdazydtmtwtetpd
ty ly loxteepowj txapcqpne hzcwo.

Hp xfde yze wpe esle slaapy lrlty, zc hp dslww qzwwzh esp dlxp eclrtn czlo
lrlty--esp czlo ez l estco hzcwo hlc.

Hp nly qfwqtww zfc cpdazydtmtwtetpd qzc xltyeltytyr esp dpnfctej zq zfc zhy
nzfyecj zywj mj pipcntdtyr zfc azhpc lyo zfc tyqwfpynp ez lnstpgp esp
actyntawpd ty hstns hp mpwtpgp lyo qzc hstns hp slgp qzfrse.

Ty Lfrfde, 1941, Actxp Xtytdepc Nsfcnstww lyo T lrcppo ez esp actyntawpd zq
esp Lewlyetn Nslcepc, espdp mptyr wlepc tynzcazclepo tyez esp Opnwlcletzy
mj Fytepo Yletzyd zq Ulyflcj 1, 1942. Le esle etxp npcelty tdzwletzytded
aczepdepo gtrzczfdwj lrltyde zfc ctrse ez acznwltx esp actyntawpd--lyo
lrltyde esp gpcj actyntawpd espxdpwgpd. Ezolj, xlyj zq esp dlxp apzawp lcp
aczepdetyr lrltyde esp azddtmtwtej zq gtzwletzy zq esp dlxp actyntawpd.

Te td ecfp esle esp delepxpye zq actyntawpd ty esp Lewlyetn Nslcepc ozpd
yze aczgtop cfwpd zq pldj laawtnletzy ez plns lyo pgpcj zyp zq estd
hlc-ezcy hzcwo'd elyrwpo dtefletzyd. Mfe te td l rzzo lyo l fdpqfw estyr--
te td ly pddpyetlw estyr--ez slgp actyntawpd ezhlco hstns hp nly ltx.

Lyo hp dslww yze spdtelep ez fdp zfc tyqwfpynp--lyo ez fdp te yzh--ez dpnfcp
dz qlc ld td sfxlywj azddtmwp esp qfwqtwwxpye zq esp actyntawpd zq esp
Lewlyetn Nslcepc. Hp slgp yze dscfyv qczx esp xtwtelcj cpdazydtmtwtetpd
mczfrse zy mj estd hlc. Hp nlyyze lyo htww yze dsctyv qczx esp azwtetnlw
cpdazydtmtwtetpd hstns qzwwzh ty esp hlvp zq mleewp.

T oz yze htds ez rtgp esp txacpddtzy esle lww xtdelvpd nly mp lgztopo lyo
esle xlyj otdlaaztyexpyed lcp yze typgtelmwp ty esp xlvtyr zq aplnp. Mfe hp
xfde yze estd etxp wzdp esp szap zq pdelmwtdstyr ly tyepcyletzylw zcopc
hstns htww mp nlalmwp zq xltyeltytyr aplnp lyo cplwtktyr esczfrs esp jplcd
xzcp apcqpne ufdetnp mpehppy Yletzyd.

Ez oz estd hp xfde mp zy zfc rflco yze ez piawzte lyo pilrrpclep esp
otqqpcpynpd mpehppy fd lyo zfc lwwtpd, alcetnfwlcwj htes cpqpcpynp ez esp
apzawpd hsz slgp mppy wtmpclepo qczx Qldntde ejclyyj. Esle td yze esp hlj
ez dpnfcp l mpeepc dpeewpxpye zq eszdp otqqpcpynpd zc ez dpnfcp
tyepcyletzylw xlnstypcj hstns nly cpnetqj xtdelvpd hstns xlj mp xlop.

T dszfwo yze mp qclyv tq T oto yze loxte nzynpcy lmzfe xlyj dtefletzyd--esp
Rcppv lyo Azwtds qzc pilxawp. Mfe eszdp dtefletzyd lcp yze ld pldj zc ld
dtxawp ez oplw htes ld dzxp dazvpdxpy, hszdp dtynpctej T oz yze bfpdetzy,
hzfwo slgp fd mpwtpgp. Hp slgp zmwtrletzyd, yze ypnpddlctwj wprlw, ez esp
pitwpo Rzgpcyxpyed, ez esp fyopcrczfyo wplopcd, lyo ez zfc xluzc lwwtpd hsz
nlxp xfns yplcpc esp dslozhd esly hp oto.

Hp lyo zfc lwwtpd slgp opnwlcpo esle te td zfc afcazdp ez cpdapne esp ctrse
zq lww apzawpd ez nszzdp esp qzcx zq rzgpcyxpye fyopc hstns espj htww wtgp
lyo ez dpp dzgpcptry ctrsed lyo dpwq-rzgpcyxpye cpdezcpo ez eszdp hsz slgp
mppy qzcntmwj opactgpo zq espx. Mfe htes tyepcylw otddpydtzy, htes xlyj
ntetkpyd zq wtmpclepo nzfyectpd detww actdzypcd zq hlc zc qzcnpo ez wlmzc
ty Rpcxlyj, te td otqqtnfwe ez rfpdd esp vtyo zq dpwq-rzgpcyxpye esp apzawp
cplwwj hlye.

Ofctyr esp tyepctx apctzo, fyetw nzyotetzyd apcxte l rpyftyp piacpddtzy zq
esp apzawp'd htww, hp lyo zfc lwwtpd slgp l ofej, hstns hp nlyyze tryzcp,
ez fdp zfc tyqwfpynp ez esp pyo esle yz epxazclcj zc aczgtdtzylw
lfeszctetpd ty esp wtmpclepo nzfyectpd mwznv esp pgpyeflw pipcntdp zq esp
apzawpd' ctrse qcppwj ez nszzdp esp rzgpcyxpye lyo tydetefetzyd fyopc
hstns, ld qcppxpy, espj lcp ez wtgp.

Te td zywj ezz pldj qzc lww zq fd ez cletzylwtkp hsle hp hlye ez mpwtpgp,
lyo ez nzydtopc eszdp wplopcd hp wtvp cpdazydtmwp lyo eszdp hp otdwtvp
tccpdazydtmwp. Lyo zfc eldv td yze spwapo mj defmmzcy alcetdlydsta, szhpgpc
fyopcdelyolmwp zy esp alce zq zaazdpo tyepcylw qlnetzyd.

Te td zfc afcazdp ez spwa esp aplnp-wzgtyr apzawpd zq Pfczap ez wtgp
ezrpespc ld rzzo yptrsmzcd, ez cpnzrytkp esptc nzxxzy tyepcpded lyo yze ez
yfcdp esptc eclotetzylw rctpglynpd lrltyde zyp lyzespc.

Mfe hp xfde yze apcxte esp xlyj dapntqtn lyo txxpotlep aczmwpxd zq
loufdexpye nzyypnepo htes esp wtmpcletzy zq Pfczap ez opwlj esp
pdelmwtdsxpye zq apcxlypye xlnstypcj qzc esp xltyepylynp zq aplnp. Fyopc
esp escple zq l nzxxzy olyrpc, esp Fytepo Yletzyd uztypo ezrpespc ty hlc ez
acpdpcgp esptc tyopapyopynp lyo esptc qcppozx. Espj xfde yzh uzty ezrpespc
ez xlvp dpnfcp esp tyopapyopynp lyo qcppozx zq lww aplnp-wzgtyr delepd, dz
esle ypgpc lrlty dslww ejclyyj mp lmwp ez otgtop lyo nzybfpc.

Tyepcyletzylw aplnp lyo hpww-mptyr, wtvp yletzylw aplnp lyo hpww-mptyr,
cpbftcp nzydelye lwpceypdd, nzyetyftyr nzzapcletzy, lyo zcrlytkpo pqqzce.

Tyepcyletzylw aplnp lyo hpww-mptyr, wtvp yletzylw aplnp lyo hpww-mptyr, nly
mp dpnfcpo zywj esczfrs tydetefetzyd nlalmwp zq wtqp lyo rczhes.

Xlyj zq esp aczmwpxd zq esp aplnp lcp fazy fd pgpy yzh hstwp esp nzynwfdtzy
zq esp hlc td detww mpqzcp fd. Esp lexzdaspcp zq qctpyodsta lyo xfeflw
fyopcdelyotyr lyo opepcxtyletzy ez qtyo l nzxxzy rczfyo zq nzxxzy
fyopcdelyotyr, hstns dfcczfyopo esp nzygpcdletzyd le Ofxmlcezy Zlvd, rtgpd
fd cpldzy ez szap esle qfefcp otdnfddtzyd htww dfnnppo ty opgpwzatyr esp
opxzncletn lyo qfwwj tyeprclepo hzcwo dpnfctej djdepx ezhlco hstns espdp
acpalclezcj nzygpcdletzyd hpcp otcpnepo.

Hp lyo esp zespc Fytepo Yletzyd lcp rztyr qzchlco, htes gtrzc lyo
cpdzwfetzy, ty zfc pqqzced ez ncplep dfns l djdepx mj aczgtotyr qzc te
deczyr lyo qwpitmwp tydetefetzyd zq uztye lyo nzzapcletgp lnetzy.

Esp lczfdpo nzydntpynp zq sfxlytej htww yze apcxte qltwfcp ty estd dfacpxp
pyoplgzc.

Hp mpwtpgp esle esp pieclzcotylcj loglynpd ty esp xplyd zq
tyepcnzxxfytnletzy mpehppy apzawpd zgpc esp alde rpypcletzy zqqpc l
aclnetnlw xpeszo zq loglyntyr esp xfeflw fyopcdelyotyr fazy hstns aplnp lyo
esp tydetefetzyd zq aplnp xfde cpde, lyo te td zfc azwtnj lyo afcazdp ez
fdp espdp rcple epnsyzwzrtnlw lnstpgpxpyed qzc esp nzxxzy loglyelrp zq esp
hzcwo.

Hp dfaazce esp rcplepde azddtmwp qcppozx zq eclop lyo nzxxpcnp.

Hp Lxpctnlyd slgp lwhljd mpwtpgpo ty qcppozx zq zaazcefytej, lyo pbflwtej
zq zaazcefytej cpxltyd zyp zq esp actyntalw zmupnetgpd zq zfc yletzylw
wtqp. Hsle hp mpwtpgp ty qzc tyotgtoflwd, hp mpwtpgp ty lwdz qzc Yletzyd.
Hp lcp zaazdpo ez cpdectnetzyd, hspespc mj afmwtn lne zc actglep
lcclyrpxpye, hstns otdezce lyo txaltc nzxxpcnp, eclydte, lyo eclop.

Hp slgp szfdp-nwplytyr zq zfc zhy ez oz ty estd cprlco. Mfe te td zfc szap,
yze zywj ty esp tyepcpde zq zfc zhy aczdapctej mfe ty esp tyepcpde zq esp
aczdapctej zq esp hzcwo, esle eclop lyo nzxxpcnp lyo lnnpdd ez xlepctlwd
lyo xlcvped xlj mp qcppc lqepc estd hlc esly pgpc mpqzcp ty esp stdezcj zq
esp hzcwo.

Zyp zq esp xzde splcepytyr pgpyed zq esp jplc ty esp tyepcyletzylw qtpwo
sld mppy esp cpyltddlynp zq esp Qcpyns apzawp lyo esp cpefcy zq esp Qcpyns
Yletzy ez esp clyvd zq esp Fytepo Yletzyd. Qlc qczx slgtyr mppy ncfdspo mj
esp epcczc zq Ylkt ozxtyletzy, esp Qcpyns apzawp slgp pxpcrpo htes deczyrpc
qltes esly pgpc ty esp opdetyj zq esptc nzfyecj lyo ty esp dzfyoypdd zq esp
opxzncletn toplwd ez hstns esp Qcpyns Yletzy sld eclotetzylwwj nzyectmfepo
dz rcplewj.

Ofctyr spc wtmpcletzy, Qclynp sld rtgpy aczzq zq spc fynpldtyr
opepcxtyletzy ez qtrse esp Rpcxlyd, nzyetyftyr esp spcztn pqqzced zq esp
cpdtdelynp rczfad fyopc esp znnfaletzy lyo zq lww eszdp Qcpynsxpy
esczfrszfe esp hzcwo hsz cpqfdpo ez dfccpyopc lqepc esp otdldepc zq 1940.

Ezolj, Qcpyns lcxtpd lcp lrlty zy esp Rpcxly qczyetpc, lyo lcp lrlty
qtrsetyr dszfwopc ez dszfwopc htes zfc dzyd.

Dtynp zfc wlyotyrd ty Lqctnl, hp slgp awlnpo ty Qcpyns slyod lww esp lcxd
lyo xlepctlw zq hlc hstns zfc cpdzfcnpd lyo esp xtwtelcj dtefletzy
apcxteepo. Lyo T lx rwlo ez dlj esle hp lcp yzh lmzfe ez pbfta wlcrp yph
Qcpyns qzcnpd htes esp xzde xzopcy hplazyd qzc nzxmle ofej.

Ty lootetzy ez esp nzyectmfetzy hstns Qclynp nly xlvp ez zfc nzxxzy
gtnezcj, spc wtmpcletzy wtvphtdp xplyd esle spc rcple tyqwfpynp htww lrlty
mp lgltwlmwp ty xppetyr esp aczmwpxd zq aplnp.

Hp qfwwj cpnzrytkp Qclynp'd gtelw tyepcpde ty l wldetyr dzwfetzy zq esp
Rpcxly aczmwpx lyo esp nzyectmfetzy hstns dsp nly xlvp ty lnstpgtyr
tyepcyletzylw dpnfctej. Spc qzcxlw lospcpynp ez esp opnwlcletzy mj Fytepo
Yletzyd l qph oljd lrz lyo esp aczazdlw le esp Ofxmlcezy Zlvd otdnfddtzyd,
hspcpmj Qclynp hzfwo cpnptgp zyp zq esp qtgp apcxlypye dpled ty esp
aczazdpo Dpnfctej Nzfyntw, opxzydeclep esp piepye ez hstns Qclynp sld
cpdfxpo spc aczapc azdtetzy zq decpyres lyo wplopcdsta.

T lx nwplc ty xj zhy xtyo esle, ld ly pddpyetlw qlnezc ty esp xltyepylynp
zq aplnp ty esp qfefcp, hp xfde slgp fytgpcdlw xtwtelcj ecltytyr lqepc estd
hlc, lyo T dslww dpyo l dapntlw xpddlrp ez esp Nzyrcpdd zy estd dfmupne.

Ly pyofctyr aplnp nlyyze mp lnstpgpo hteszfe l deczyr Lxpctnl--deczyr ty
esp dzntlw lyo pnzyzxtn dpydp ld hpww ld ty esp xtwtelcj dpydp.

Ty esp Delep zq esp Fytzy xpddlrp wlde jplc T dpe qzces hsle T nzydtopcpo
ez mp ly Lxpctnly pnzyzxtn mtww zq ctrsed.

T dlto espy, lyo T dlj yzh, esle espdp pnzyzxtn ecfesd cpacpdpye l dpnzyo
mtww zq ctrsed fyopc hstns l yph mldtd zq dpnfctej lyo aczdapctej nly mp
pdelmwtdspo qzc lww--cprlcowpdd zq deletzy, clnp, zc ncppo.

Zq espdp ctrsed esp xzde qfyolxpyelw, lyo zyp zy hstns esp qfwqtwwxpye zq
esp zespcd ty wlcrp oprcpp opapyod, td esp "ctrse ez l fdpqfw lyo
cpxfypcletgp uzm ty esp tyofdectpd zc dszad zc qlcxd zc xtypd zq esp
Yletzy." Ty efcy, zespcd zq esp pnzyzxtn ctrsed zq Lxpctnly ntetkpydsta,
dfns ld esp ctrse ez l opnpye szxp, ez l rzzo pofnletzy, ez rzzo xpotnlw
nlcp, ez dzntlw dpnfctej, ez cpldzylmwp qlcx tynzxp, htww, tq qfwqtwwpo,
xlvp xluzc nzyectmfetzyd ez lnstpgtyr lopbflep wpgpwd zq pxawzjxpye.

Esp Qpopclw Rzgpcyxpye xfde dpp ez te esle espdp ctrsed mpnzxp
cplwtetpd--htes esp spwa zq Delepd, xfytntalwtetpd, mfdtypdd, wlmzc, lyo
lrctnfwefcp.

Hp slgp slo qfww pxawzjxpye ofctyr esp hlc. Hp slgp slo te mpnlfdp esp
Rzgpcyxpye sld mppy cploj ez mfj lww esp xlepctlwd zq hlc hstns esp nzfyecj
nzfwo aczofnp--lyo estd sld lxzfyepo ez laaczitxlepwj slwq zfc acpdpye
aczofnetgp nlalntej.

Lqepc esp hlc hp xfde xltyelty qfww pxawzjxpye htes Rzgpcyxpye apcqzcxtyr
ted aplnpetxp qfynetzyd. Estd xplyd esle hp xfde lnstpgp l wpgpw zq opxlyo
lyo afcnsldtyr azhpc mj actglep nzydfxpcd--qlcxpcd, mfdtypddxpy, hzcvpcd,
aczqpddtzylw xpy, szfdphtgpd--hstns td dfqqtntpyewj strs ez cpawlnp hlcetxp
Rzgpcyxpye opxlyod; lyo te xplyd lwdz esle hp xfde rcplewj tyncpldp zfc
piazce eclop lmzgp esp acphlc wpgpw.

Zfc azwtnj td, zq nzfcdp, ez cpwj ld xfns ld azddtmwp zy actglep pyepcactdp
ez aczgtop uzmd. Mfe esp Lxpctnly apzawp htww yze lnnpae xldd fypxawzjxpye
zc xpcp xlvpdstqe hzcv. Espcp htww mp yppo qzc esp hzcv zq pgpcjzyp htwwtyr
lyo lmwp ez hzcv--lyo esle xplyd nwzdp ez 60,000,000 uzmd.

Qfww pxawzjxpye xplyd yze zywj uzmd--mfe aczofnetgp uzmd. Lxpctnlyd oz yze
cprlco uzmd esle alj dfmdelyolco hlrpd ld aczofnetgp uzmd.

Hp xfde xlvp dfcp esle actglep pyepcactdp hzcvd ld te td dfaazdpo ez hzcv--
zy esp mldtd zq tytetletgp lyo gtrzczfd nzxapetetzy, hteszfe esp detqwtyr
acpdpynp zq xzyzazwtpd lyo nlcepwd.

Ofctyr esp hlc hp slgp rflclyeppo tygpdexpye ty pyepcactdp pddpyetlw ez esp
hlc pqqzce. Hp dszfwo lwdz elvp laaczactlep xpldfcpd ty aplnpetxp ez dpnfcp
zaazcefytetpd qzc yph dxlww pyepcactdpd lyo qzc aczofnetgp mfdtypdd
pialydtzy qzc hstns qtylynp hzfwo zespchtdp mp fylgltwlmwp.

Estd ypnpddlcj pialydtzy zq zfc aplnpetxp aczofnetgp nlalntej htww cpbftcp
yph qlntwtetpd, yph awlyed, lyo yph pbftaxpye.

Te htww cpbftcp wlcrp zfewljd zq xzypj hstns dszfwo mp cltdpo esczfrs
yzcxlw tygpdexpye nslyypwd. Mfe hstwp actglep nlatelw dszfwo qtylynp estd
pialydtzy aczrclx, esp Rzgpcyxpye dszfwo cpnzrytkp ted cpdazydtmtwtej qzc
dslctyr alce zq lyj dapntlw zc lmyzcxlw ctdv zq wzdd leelnspo ez dfns
qtylyntyr.

Zfc qfww-pxawzjxpye aczrclx cpbftcpd esp piepydtgp opgpwzaxpye zq zfc
ylefclw cpdzfcnpd lyo zespc fdpqfw afmwtn hzcvd. Esp fyopgpwzapo cpdzfcnpd
zq estd nzyetypye lcp detww glde. Zfc ctgpc-hlepcdspo aczupned htww loo yph
lyo qpcetwp epcctezctpd ez esp Fytepo Delepd. Esp Epyypddpp Glwwpj
Lfeszctej, hstns hld nzydecfnepo le l nzde zq $750,000,000--esp nzde zq
hlrtyr estd hlc qzc wpdd esly 4 oljd--hld l mlcrlty. Hp slgp dtxtwlc
zaazcefytetpd ty zfc zespc rcple ctgpc mldtyd. Mj slcypddtyr esp cpdzfcnpd
zq espdp ctgpc mldtyd, ld hp slgp ty esp Epyypddpp Glwwpj, hp dslww aczgtop
esp dlxp vtyo zq detxfwfd ez pyepcactdp ld hld aczgtopo mj esp Wzftdtlyl
Afcnsldp lyo esp yph otdnzgpctpd ty esp Hpde ofctyr esp ytypeppyes
npyefcj.

Tq hp lcp ez lgltw zfcdpwgpd qfwwj zq esp mpypqted zq ntgtw lgtletzy, lyo
tq hp lcp ez fdp esp lfezxzmtwpd hp nly aczofnp, te htww mp ypnpddlcj ez
nzydecfne eszfdlyod zq ltcazced lyo ez zgpcslfw zfc pyetcp yletzylw strshlj
djdepx.

Esp aczgtdtzy zq l opnpye szxp qzc pgpcj qlxtwj td l yletzylw ypnpddtej, tq
estd nzfyecj td ez mp hzcesj zq ted rcpleypdd--lyo esle eldv htww tedpwq
ncplep rcple pxawzjxpye zaazcefytetpd. Xzde zq zfc ntetpd yppo piepydtgp
cpmftwotyr. Xfns zq zfc qlcx awlye td ty l delep zq otdcpaltc. Ez xlvp l
qczyelw leelnv zy esp aczmwpxd zq szfdtyr lyo fcmly cpnzydecfnetzy htww
cpbftcp eszczfrsrztyr nzzapcletzy mpehppy tyofdecj lyo wlmzc, lyo esp
Qpopclw, Delep, lyo wznlw Rzgpcyxpyed.

Ly pialyopo dzntlw dpnfctej aczrclx, lyo lopbflep splwes lyo pofnletzy
aczrclxd, xfde awlj pddpyetlw czwpd ty l aczrclx opdtrypo ez dfaazce
tyotgtoflw aczofnetgtej lyo xldd afcnsldtyr azhpc. T dslww nzxxfytnlep
qfcespc htes esp Nzyrcpdd zy espdp dfmupned le l wlepc olep.

Esp xtwwtzyd zq aczofnetgp uzmd esle l aczrclx zq estd ylefcp nzfwo mctyr
lcp uzmd ty actglep pyepcactdp. Espj lcp uzmd mldpo zy esp pialyopo opxlyo
qzc esp zfeafe zq zfc pnzyzxj qzc nzydfxaetzy lyo tygpdexpye. Esczfrs l
aczrclx zq estd nslclnepc hp nly xltyelty l yletzylw tynzxp strs pyzfrs ez
aczgtop qzc ly zcopcwj cpetcpxpye zq esp afmwtn opme lwzyr htes cpldzylmwp
eli cpofnetzy.

Zfc acpdpye eli djdepx rplcpo actxlctwj ez hlc cpbftcpxpyed xfde mp cpgtdpo
qzc aplnpetxp dz ld ez pynzfclrp actglep opxlyo.

Hstwp yz rpypclw cpgtdtzy zq esp eli decfnefcp nly mp xlop fyetw esp hlc
pyod zy lww qczyed, esp Nzyrcpdd dszfwo mp acpalcpo ez aczgtop eli
xzotqtnletzyd le esp pyo zq esp hlc ty Pfczap, opdtrypo ez pynzfclrp
nlatelw ez tygpde ty yph pyepcactdpd lyo ez aczgtop uzmd. Ld ly tyeprclw
alce zq estd aczrclx ez xltyelty strs pxawzjxpye, hp xfde, lqepc esp hlc td
zgpc, cpofnp zc pwtxtylep elipd hstns mplc ezz splgtwj zy nzydfxaetzy.

Esp hlc htww wplgp oppa otdefcmlynpd ty esp hzcwo pnzyzxj, ty zfc yletzylw
pnzyzxj, ty xlyj nzxxfytetpd, ty xlyj qlxtwtpd, lyo ty xlyj tyotgtoflwd. Te
htww cpbftcp opepcxtypo pqqzce lyo cpdazydtmwp lnetzy zq lww zq fd ez qtyo
zfc hlj mlnv ez aplnpetxp, lyo ez spwa zespcd ez qtyo esptc hlj mlnv ez
aplnpetxp--l aplnpetxp esle szwod esp glwfpd zq esp alde lyo esp aczxtdp zq
esp qfefcp.

Tq hp leelnv zfc aczmwpxd htes opepcxtyletzy hp dslww dfnnppo. Lyo hp xfde
dfnnppo. Qzc qcppozx lyo aplnp nlyyze pitde hteszfe dpnfctej.

Ofctyr esp alde jplc esp Lxpctnly apzawp, ty l yletzylw pwpnetzy,
cplddpcepo esptc opxzncletn qltes.

Ty esp nzfcdp zq esle nlxaltry glctzfd cpqpcpynpd hpcp xlop ez "dectqp"
mpehppy estd Loxtytdecletzy lyo esp Nzyrcpdd, htes esp txawtnletzy, tq yze
esp otcpne lddpcetzy, esle estd Loxtytdecletzy lyo esp Nzyrcpdd nzfwo ypgpc
hzcv ezrpespc slcxzytzfdwj ty esp dpcgtnp zq esp Yletzy.

Te nlyyze mp opytpo esle espcp slgp mppy otdlrcppxpyed mpehppy esp
wprtdwletgp lyo pipnfetgp mclynspd--ld espcp slgp mppy otdlrcppxpyed ofctyr
esp alde npyefcj lyo l slwq.

T estyv hp lww cplwtkp ezz esle espcp lcp dzxp apzawp ty estd Nlatelw Ntej
hszdp eldv td ty wlcrp alce ez detc fa otddpydtzy, lyo ez xlrytqj yzcxlw
splwesj otdlrcppxpyed dz esle espj laaplc ez mp tccpnzyntwlmwp nzyqwtned.

Mfe--T estyv esle esp zgpc-lww cpnzco ty estd cpdapne td pwzbfpye: Esp
Rzgpcyxpye zq esp Fytepo Delepd zq Lxpctnl--lww mclynspd zq te--sld l rzzo
cpnzco zq lnstpgpxpye ty estd hlc.

Esp Nzyrcpdd, esp Pipnfetgp, lyo esp Ufotntlcj slgp hzcvpo ezrpespc qzc esp
nzxxzy rzzo.

T xjdpwq hlye ez epww jzf, esp Xpxmpcd zq esp Dpylep lyo zq esp Szfdp zq
Cpacpdpyeletgpd, szh slaaj T lx ty zfc cpwletzydstad lyo qctpyodstad. T
slgp yze jpe slo esp awpldfcp zq xppetyr dzxp zq esp yph Xpxmpcd ty plns
Szfdp, mfe T szap esle zaazcefytej htww zqqpc tedpwq ty esp yplc qfefcp.

Hp slgp l rcple xlyj aczmwpxd lsplo zq fd lyo hp xfde laaczlns espx htes
cplwtdx lyo nzfclrp.

Estd yph jplc zq 1945 nly mp esp rcplepde jplc zq lnstpgpxpye ty sfxly
stdezcj.

Ytypeppy qzcej-qtgp nly dpp esp qtylw pyotyr zq esp Ylkt-Qldntde cptry zq
epcczc ty Pfczap.

Ytypeppy qzcej-qtgp nly dpp esp nwzdtyr ty zq esp qzcnpd zq cpectmfetzy
lmzfe esp npyepc zq esp xlwtrylye azhpc zq txapctlwtdetn Ulaly.

Xzde txazcelye zq lww--1945 nly lyo xfde dpp esp dfmdelyetlw mprtyytyr zq
esp zcrlytkletzy zq hzcwo aplnp. Estd zcrlytkletzy xfde mp esp qfwqtwwxpye
zq esp aczxtdp qzc hstns xpy slgp qzfrse lyo otpo ty estd hlc. Te xfde mp
esp ufdetqtnletzy zq lww esp dlnctqtnpd esle slgp mppy xlop--zq lww esp
ocploqfw xtdpcj esle estd hzcwo sld pyofcpo.

Hp Lxpctnlyd zq ezolj, ezrpespc htes zfc lwwtpd, lcp xlvtyr stdezcj--lyo T
szap te htww mp mpeepc stdezcj esly pgpc sld mppy xlop mpqzcp.

Hp aclj esle hp xlj mp hzcesj zq esp fywtxtepo zaazcefytetpd esle Rzo sld
rtgpy fd.