Mh max Lxgtmx tgw Ahnlx hy Kxikxlxgmtmboxl:

Wnkbgz max itlm rxtk max yhkxbzg kxetmbhgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atox
vhgmbgnxw nihg t utlbl hy ykbxgwlabi tgw zhhw ngwxklmtgwbgz. TKUBMKTMBHG.

Max rxtk atl uxxg ghmtuex tl pbmgxllbgz max itvbybv lxmmexfxgm hy mph
bfihkmtgm bgmxkgtmbhgte vhgmkhoxklbxl uxyhkx max Ixkftgxgm Vhnkm hy Max
Atznx.

Max tkubmktmbhg hy max Yblaxkbxl wblinmx uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw
Zkxtm Ukbmtbg, pabva atl uxxg max lhnkvx hy gxtker vhgmbgnhnl wbiehftmbv
vhkkxlihgwxgvx lbgvx max Yblaxkbxl Vhgoxgmbhg hy 1818, atl zboxg tg tptkw
pabva bl ltmblytvmhkr mh uhma itkmbxl. Mabl tkubmktmbhg bl itkmbvnetker
ghmxphkmar ghm hger uxvtnlx hy max xfbgxgmer cnlm kxlneml lxvnkxw, unm telh
uxvtnlx bm bl max ybklm tkubmktmbhg axew ngwxk max zxgxkte tkubmktmbhg
mkxtmr hy Tikbe 4, 1908, uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Zkxtm Ukbmtbg, tgw
wblihlxl hy t vhgmkhoxklr max lxmmexfxgm hy pabva atl kxlblmxw xoxkr hmaxk
kxlhnkvx hy wbiehftvr, tgw pabva yhk gxtker gbgxmr rxtkl atl uxxg max vtnlx
hy ykbvmbhg uxmpxxg mph vhngmkbxl pahlx vhffhg bgmxkxlm ebxl bg ftbgmtbgbgz
max fhlm ykbxgwer tgw vhkwbte kxetmbhgl pbma xtva hmaxk.

Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl ptl tuer kxikxlxgmxw uxyhkx max mkbungte. Max vhfiebvtmxw
ablmhkr hy max jnxlmbhgl tkblbgz ftwx max bllnx wxixgw, fhkx matg
hkwbgtkber bg lnva vtlxl, nihg max vtkx tgw ldbee pbma pabva hnk vtlx ptl
ikxlxgmxw, tgw B lahnew ux ptgmbgz bg ikhixk kxvhzgbmbhg hy t zkxtm
itmkbhmbv lxkobvx by B wbw ghm kxyxk mh max envbw ablmhkbvte tgterlbl hy
max ytvml tgw max lbzgte tubebmr tgw yhkvx hy max tkznfxgm--lbq wtrl bg
exgzma--ikxlxgmxw mh max Vhnkm bg lniihkm hy hnk vtlx ur Fk. Xeban Khhm. Tl
Lxvkxmtkr hy Lmtmx, Fk. Khhm atw zboxg vehlx lmnwr mh max bgmkbvtmx ytvml
uxtkbgz hg max vhgmkhoxklr, tgw ur wbiehftmbv vhkkxlihgwxgvx atw axeixw mh
yktfx max bllnxl. Tm max lhebvbmtmbhg hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy Lmtmx tgw frlxey,
Fk. Khhm, mahnza unkwxgxw ur abl wnmbxl tl Lxgtmhk ykhf Gxp Rhkd, ngwxkmhhd
max ikxitktmbhg hy max vtlx tl extwbgz vhnglxe, pbma max vhgwbmbhg bfihlxw
ur abflxey matm, bg obxp hy abl ihlbmbhg tl Lxgtmhk, ax lahnew ghm kxvxbox
tgr vhfixgltmbhg.

Max Mkbungte vhglmbmnmxw tm Max Atznx ur max Zhoxkgfxgml hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl tgw Oxgxsnxet atl vhfiexmxw bml wxebuxktmbhgl tgw atl kxgwxkxw tg
tptkw bg max vtlx hy max Hkbghvh Lmxtflabi Vhfitgr tztbglm Oxgxsnxet. Max
tptkw ftr ux kxztkwxw tl ltmblytvmhkr lbgvx bm atl, inklntgm mh max
vhgmxgmbhgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, kxvhzgbsxw t gnfuxk hy bfihkmtgm
ikbgvbiexl ftdbgz yhk t cnwbvbte tmmbmnwx bg max wxmxkfbgbgz hy
bgmxkgtmbhgte wblinmxl.

Bg obxp hy zktox whnuml pabva atw uxxg ktblxw tl mh max vhglmbmnmbhgtebmr
hy Max Atznx Vhgoxgmbhg yhk max xlmtueblafxgm hy tg Bgmxkgtmbhgte Ikbsx
Vhnkm, ghp uxyhkx max Lxgtmx yhk ktmbybvtmbhg, uxvtnlx hy matm ikhoblbhg hy
max Vhgoxgmbhg pabva ikhobwxl matm maxkx ftr ux tg tiixte mh max ikhihlxw
Vhnkm ykhf max wxvblbhgl hy gtmbhgte vhnkml, mabl zhoxkgfxgm ikhihlxw bg tg
Bwxgmbv Vbkvnetk Ghmx twwkxllxw mh mahlx Ihpxkl pah atw mtdxg itkm bg max
Ehgwhg Ftkbmbfx Vhgyxkxgvx, matm max ihpxkl lbzgtmhkr mh max Vhgoxgmbhg, by
vhgykhgmxw pbma lnva wbyybvnemr, fbzam bglxkm t kxlxkotmbhg mh max xyyxvm
matm tiixtel mh max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Ikbsx Vhnkm bg kxlixvm mh wxvblbhgl hy
bml gtmbhgte mkbungtel, lahnew mtdx max yhkf hy t wbkxvm vetbf yhk
vhfixgltmbhg; matm max ikhvxxwbgzl maxkxnihg mh ux mtdxg lahnew ux bg max
yhkf hy t mkbte wx ghoh, tgw matm cnwzfxgm hy max Vhnkm lahnew vhglblm hy
vhfixgltmbhg yhk max beexzte vtimnkx, bkkxlixvmbox hy max wxvblbhg hy max
gtmbhgte vhnkm pahlx cnwzfxgm atw manl uxxg bgmxkgtmbhgteer bgoheoxw. Tl
max kxlnem hy tg bgyhkfte wblvnllbhg bm ptl wxvbwxw mh ikhobwx lnva
ikhvxwnkx ur fxtgl hy t lxitktmx ikhmhvhe pabva lahnew ux ktmbybxw tm max
ltfx mbfx tl max Ikbsx Vhnkm Vhgoxgmbhg bmlxey.

Tvvhkwbgzer, max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Gxmaxketgwl, tm max kxjnxlm hy mabl
Zhoxkgfxgm, ikhihlxw ngwxk wtmx hy Ftr 24, 1910, mh max ihpxkl lbzgtmhkr mh
Max Atznx Vhgoxgmbhg, max gxzhmbtmbhg hy t lniiexfxgmte ikhmhvhe xfuhwrbgz
lmbinetmbhgl ikhobwbgz yhk mabl temxkgtmbox ikhvxwnkx. Bm bl zktmbyrbgz mh
hulxkox matm mabl twwbmbhgte ikhmhvhe bl uxbgz lbzgxw pbmahnm hucxvmbhg, ur
max ihpxkl lbzgtmhkr mh max hkbzbgte vhgoxgmbhg, tgw maxkx bl xoxkr kxtlhg
mh uxebxox matm max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Ikbsx Vhnkm pbee ux lhhg xlmtueblaxw.

Max Bwxgmbv Vbkvnetk Ghmx telh ikhihlxw matm max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Ikbsx Vhnkm
paxg xlmtueblaxw lahnew ux xgwhpxw pbma max yngvmbhgl hy tg Tkubmkte Vhnkm
hy Cnlmbvx ngwxk tgw inklntgm mh max kxvhffxgwtmbhg twhimxw ur max etlm
Atznx Vhgyxkxgvx. Max kxiebxl kxvxboxw ykhf max otkbhnl ihpxkl mh mabl
ikhihlte bglibkx max ahix matm mabl telh ftr ux tvvhfieblaxw pbmabg max
kxtlhgtuer gxtk ynmnkx.

Bm bl uxebxoxw matm max xlmtueblafxgm hy maxlx mph mkbungtel pbee zh t ehgz
ptr mhptkw lxvnkbgz max tkubmktmbhg hy ftgr jnxlmbhgl pabva atox axkxmhyhkx
makxtmxgxw tgw, tm mbfxl, wxlmkhrxw max ixtvx hy gtmbhgl.

IXTVX VHFFBLLBHG.

Tiikxvbtmbgz maxlx xgebzamxgxw mxgwxgvbxl hy fhwxkg mbfxl, max Vhgzkxll tm
bml etlm lxllbhg itllxw t etp ikhobwbgz yhk max tiihbgmfxgm hy t vhffbllbhg
hy ybox fxfuxkl "mh ux tiihbgmxw ur max Ikxlbwxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh
vhglbwxk max xqixwbxgvr hy nmbebsbgz xqblmbgz bgmxkgtmbhgte tzxgvbxl yhk
max inkihlx hy ebfbmbgz max tkftfxgml hy max gtmbhgl hy max phkew ur
bgmxkgtmbhgte tzkxxfxgm, tgw hy vhglmbmnmbgz max vhfubgxw gtobxl hy max
phkew tg bgmxkgtmbhgte yhkvx yhk max ikxlxkotmbhg hy ngboxklte ixtvx, tgw
mh vhglbwxk tgw kxihkm nihg tgr hmaxk fxtgl mh wbfbgbla max xqixgwbmnkxl hy
zhoxkgfxgm yhk fbebmtkr inkihlxl tgw mh exllxg max ikhutubebmbxl hy ptk."

B atox ghm tl rxm ftwx tiihbgmfxgml mh mabl Vhffbllbhg uxvtnlx B atox
bgobmxw tgw tf tptbmbgz max xqikxllbhgl hy yhkxbzg zhoxkgfxgml tl mh maxbk
pbeebgzgxll mh vhhixktmx pbma nl bg max tiihbgmfxgm hy lbfbetk vhffbllbhgl
hk kxikxlxgmtmboxl pah phnew fxxm pbma hnk vhffbllbhgxkl tgw ur chbgm
tvmbhg lxxd mh ftdx maxbk phkd xyyxvmbox.

ZKXTM UKBMTBG TGW VTGTWT.

Lxoxkte bfihkmtgm mkxtmbxl atox uxxg gxzhmbtmxw pbma Zkxtm Ukbmtbg bg max
itlm mpxeox fhgmal. T ikxebfbgtkr wbiehftmbv tzkxxfxgm atl uxxg kxtvaxw
kxztkwbgz max tkubmktmbhg hy ixvngbtkr vetbfl pabva xtva Zhoxkgfxgm atl
tztbglm max hmaxk. Mabl tzkxxfxgm, pbma max lvaxwnexl hy vetbfl tggxqxw,
pbee, tl lhhg tl max lvaxwnexl tkx tkktgzxw, ux lnufbmmxw mh max Lxgtmx yhk
tiikhote.

Tg tzkxxfxgm uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Zkxtm Ukbmtbg pbma kxztkw mh max
ehvtmbhg hy max bgmxkgtmbhgte uhngwtkr ebgx uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw
Vtgtwt bg Itlltftjnhwwr Utr tgw mh max fbwwex hy Zktgw Ftgtg Vatggxe ptl
kxtvaxw bg t Mkxtmr vhgvenwxw Ftr 21, 1910, pabva atl uxxg ktmbybxw ur uhma
Zhoxkgfxgml tgw ikhvetbfxw, manl ftdbgz nggxvxlltkr max tkubmktmbhg
ikhobwxw yhk bg max ikxobhnl mkxtmr hy Tikbe 11, 1908.

Max Vhgoxgmbhg vhgvenwxw Ctgntkr 11, 1909, uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw
Zkxtm Ukbmtbg ikhobwbgz yhk max lxmmexfxgm hy bgmxkgtmbhgte wbyyxkxgvxl
uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw Vtgtwt bgvenwbgz max tiihkmbhgfxgm uxmpxxg
max mph vhngmkbxl hy vxkmtbg hy max uhngwtkr ptmxkl tgw max tiihbgmfxgm hy
Vhffbllbhgxkl mh twcnlm vxkmtbg hmaxk jnxlmbhgl atl uxxg ktmbybxw ur uhma
Zhoxkgfxgml tgw ikhvetbfxw.

Max phkd hy max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Yblaxkbxl Vhffbllbhg tiihbgmxw bg 1908, ngwxk
max mkxtmr hy Tikbe 11, 1908, uxmpxxg Zkxtm Ukbmtbg tgw max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl,
atl kxlnemxw bg max yhkfnetmbhg tgw kxvhffxgwtmbhg hy ngbyhkf kxznetmbhgl
zhoxkgbgz max yblaxkbxl hy max uhngwtkr ptmxkl hy Vtgtwt tgw max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl yhk max inkihlx hy ikhmxvmbgz tgw bgvkxtlbgz max lniier hy yhhw ybla
bg lnva ptmxkl. Bg vhfiexmbhg hy mabl phkd, max kxznetmbhgl tzkxxw nihg
kxjnbkx vhgzkxllbhgte exzbletmbhg mh ftdx maxf xyyxvmbox tgw yhk maxbk
xgyhkvxfxgm bg yneybeefxgm hy max mkxtmr lmbinetmbhgl. IHKMNZTE.

Bg Hvmhuxk etlm max fhgtkvar bg Ihkmnzte ptl hoxkmakhpg, t ikhoblbhgte
Kxinuebv ptl ikhvetbfxw, tgw maxkx ptl lxm ni t wx ytvmh Zhoxkgfxgm pabva
ptl ikhfimer kxvhzgbsxw ur max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl yhk inkihlxl
hy hkwbgtkr bgmxkvhnklx ixgwbgz yhkfte kxvhzgbmbhg ur mabl tgw hmaxk Ihpxkl
hy max Zhoxkgfxgmte xgmbmr mh ux wner xlmtueblaxw ur max gtmbhgte
lhoxkxbzgmr. EBUXKBT.

T wblmnkutgvx tfhgz max gtmbox mkbuxl hy Ebuxkbt bg t ihkmbhg hy max
Kxinuebv wnkbgz max xtker itkm hy mabl rxtk kxlnemxw bg max lxgwbgz, ngwxk
max Mkxtmr hy 1862, hy tg Tfxkbvtg oxllxe hy ptk mh max wbltyyxvmxw
wblmkbvm, tgw max Ebuxkbtg tnmahkbmbxl, tllblmxw ur max zhhw hyybvxl hy max
Tfxkbvtg Gtote Hyybvxkl, pxkx tuex mh kxlmhkx hkwxk. Max gxzhmbtmbhgl pabva
atox uxxg ngwxkmtdxg yhk max tfxebhktmbhg hy max vhgwbmbhgl yhngw bg
Ebuxkbt ur max Tfxkbvtg Vhffbllbhg, pahlx kxihkm B mktglfbmmxw mh Vhgzkxll
hg Ftkva 25 etlm, tkx uxbgz ukhnzam mh vhgvenlbhg, tgw bm bl mahnzam matm
pbmabg t lahkm mbfx iktvmbvte fxtlnkxl hy kxebxy ftr ux inm bgmh xyyxvm
makhnza max zhhw hyybvxl hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm tgw max vhkwbte vhhixktmbhg hy
hmaxk zhoxkgfxgml bgmxkxlmxw bg Ebuxkbt'l pxeytkx.

MAX GXTK XTLM. MNKDXR.

Mh kxmnkg max oblbm hy max Lixvbte Xfutllr tgghngvbgz max tvvxllbhg hy Abl
Ftcxlmr Fxaxfxm O, Xfixkhk hy max Hmmhftgl, B lxgm mh Vhglmtgmbghiex t
Lixvbte Tfutlltwhk pah, bg twwbmbhg mh mabl fbllbhg hy vxkxfhgr, ptl
vatkzxw pbma max wnmr hy xqikxllbgz mh max Hmmhftg Zhoxkgfxgm max otenx
tmmtvaxw ur max Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh bgvkxtlxw tgw fhkx
bfihkmtgm kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg max vhngmkbxl tgw max wxlbkx hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl mh vhgmkbunmx mh max etkzxk xvhghfbv tgw vhffxkvbte wxoxehifxgm wnx
mh max gxp kxzbfx bg Mnkdxr.

Max ktibw wxoxehifxgm ghp uxzbggbgz bg matm tgvbxgm xfibkx tgw max ftkdxw
ikhzkxll tgw bgvkxtlxw vhffxkvbte bfihkmtgvx hy Uneztkbt, Khnftgbt, tgw
Lxkobt ftdx bm itkmbvnetker hiihkmngx matm max ihllbubebmbxl hy Tfxkbvtg
vhffxkvx bg max Gxtk Xtlm lahnew kxvxbox wnx tmmxgmbhg. FHGMXGXZKH.

Max Gtmbhgte Ldhnivambgt atobgz xqikxllxw bml pbee matm max Ikbgvbitebmr hy
Fhgmxgxzkh ux ktblxw mh max ktgd hy Dbgzwhf, max Ikbgvx hy Fhgmxgxzkh hg
Tnznlm 15 etlm tllnfxw max mbmex hy Dbgz hy Fhgmxgxzkh. Bm ztox fx iextlnkx
mh tvvhkw mh max gxp dbgzwhf max kxvhzgbmbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

MAX YTK XTLM.

Max vxgmxk hy bgmxkxlm bg Ytk Xtlmxkg tyytbkl wnkbgz max itlm rxtk atl
tztbg uxxg Vabgt.

Bm bl zktmbyrbgz mh ghmx matm max gxzhmbtmbhgl yhk t ehtg mh max Vabgxlx
Zhoxkgfxgm yhk max vhglmknvmbhg hy max mkngd ktbeptr ebgxl ykhf Atgdhp
lhnmaptkw mh Vtgmhg tgw pxlmptkw makhnza max Rtgzmlx Oteexr, dghpg tl max
Andntgz Ehtg, pxkx vhgvenwxw ur max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max otkbhnl
ybgtgvbte zkhnil bg Ftr etlm tgw max kxlneml tiikhoxw ur maxbk kxlixvmbox
zhoxkgfxgml. Max tzkxxfxgm, tekxtwr bgbmbtexw ur max Vabgxlx Zhoxkgfxgm, bl
ghp tptbmbgz yhkfte ktmbybvtmbhg. Max utlbl hy max lxmmexfxgm hy max mxkfl
hy mabl ehtg ptl hgx hy xqtvm xjntebmr uxmpxxg Tfxkbvt, Zkxtm Ukbmtbg,
Yktgvx, tgw Zxkftgr bg kxlixvm mh ybgtgvbgz max ehtg tgw lniierbgz
ftmxkbtel yhk max ikhihlxw ktbeptrl tgw maxbk ynmnkx uktgvaxl.

Max tiiebvtmbhg hy max ikbgvbiex ngwxkerbgz max ihebvr hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
bg kxztkw mh max Andntgz Ehtg, obs., matm hy max bgmxkgtmbhgtebstmbhg hy
max yhkxbzg bgmxkxlm bg lnva hy max ktbeptrl hy Vabgt tl ftr ux ybgtgvxw ur
yhkxbzg vhngmkbxl, ptl lnzzxlmxw hg t ukhtwxk lvtex ur max Lxvkxmtkr hy
Lmtmx bg t ikhihlte yhk bgmxkgtmbhgtebstmbhg tgw vhffxkvbte gxnmktebstmbhg
hy tee max ktbeptrl hy Ftgvankbt. Pabex max ikbgvbiex pabva exw mh max
ikhihlte hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm ptl zxgxkteer twfbmmxw ur max ihpxkl mh pahf bm
ptl twwkxllxw, max Zhoxkgfxgml hy Knllbt tgw Ctitg tiikxaxgwxw iktvmbvte
wbyybvnembxl bg max xqxvnmbhg hy max etkzxk ietg pabva ikxoxgmxw maxbk
kxtwr twaxkxgvx. Max jnxlmbhg hy vhglmknvmbgz max Vabgvahp-Tbzng ktbeptr ur
fxtgl hy tg bgmxkgtmbhgte ehtg mh Vabgt bl, ahpxoxk, lmbee max lnucxvm hy
ykbxgwer wblvnllbhg ur max bgmxkxlmxw itkmbxl.

Max ihebvr hy mabl Zhoxkgfxgm bg maxlx ftmmxkl atl uxxg wbkxvmxw ur t
wxlbkx mh ftdx max nlx hy Tfxkbvtg vtibmte bg max wxoxehifxgm hy Vabgt tg
bglmknfxgm bg max ikhfhmbhg hy Vabgt'l pxeytkx tgw ftmxkbte ikhlixkbmr
pbmahnm ikxcnwbvx mh axk exzbmbftmx kbzaml tl tg bgwxixgwxgm ihebmbvte
ihpxk.

Mabl ihebvr atl kxvxgmer yhngw ynkmaxk xqxfiebybvtmbhg bg max tllblmtgvx
zboxg ur mabl Zhoxkgfxgm mh max gxzhmbtmbhgl uxmpxxg Vabgt tgw t zkhni hy
Tfxkbvtg utgdxkl yhk t ehtg hy $50,000,000 mh ux xfiehrxw vabxyer bg
vnkkxgvr kxyhkf. Max vhgynlbhg pabva atl ykhf tgvbxgm mbfxl xqblmxw bg max
fhgxmtkr nltzxl hy max Vabgxlx atl uxxg hgx hy max ikbgvbite hulmtvexl mh
vhffxkvbte bgmxkvhnklx pbma matm ixhiex. Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg bml Mkxtmr hy
1903 pbma Vabgt humtbgxw t iexwzx ykhf max etmmxk mh bgmkhwnvx t ngbyhkf
gtmbhgte vhbgtzx, tgw max yheehpbgz rxtk, tm max kxjnxlm hy Vabgt, mabl
Zhoxkgfxgm lxgm mh Ixdbgz t fxfuxk hy max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Xqvatgzx
Vhffbllbhg, mh wblvnll pbma max Vabgxlx Zhoxkgfxgm max uxlm fxmahwl hy
bgmkhwnvbgz max kxyhkf. Bg 1908 Vabgt lxgm t Vhffbllbhgxk mh max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl mh vhglnem pbma Tfxkbvtg ybgtgvbxkl tl mh max ihllbubebmr hy
lxvnkbgz t etkzx ehtg pbma pabva mh bgtnznktmx max gxp vnkkxgvr lrlmxf, unm
max wxtma hy Maxbk Ftcxlmbxl, max Xfikxll Whptzxk tgw max Xfixkhk hy Vabgt,
bgmxkknimxw max gxzhmbtmbhgl, pabva pxkx ghm kxlnfxw ngmbe t yxp fhgmal
tzh, paxg mabl Zhoxkgfxgm ptl tldxw mh vhffngbvtmx mh max utgdxkl vhgvxkgxw
max kxjnxlm hy Vabgt yhk t ehtg hy $50,000,000 yhk max inkihlx ngwxk
kxobxp. T ikxebfbgtkr tzkxxfxgm uxmpxxg max Tfxkbvtg zkhni tgw Vabgt atl
uxxg ftwx vhoxkbgz max ehtg.

Yhk max lnvvxll hy mabl ehtg tgw max vhgmxfietmxw kxyhkfl pabva tkx hy max
zkxtmxlm bfihkmtgvx mh max vhffxkvbte bgmxkxlml hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw
max vbobebsxw phkew tm etkzx, bm bl kxtebsxw matm tg xqixkm pbee ux
gxvxlltkr, tgw mabl Zhoxkgfxgm atl kxvxboxw tllnktgvxl ykhf Vabgt matm lnva
tg twoblxk, pah latee ux tg Tfxkbvtg, pbee ux xgztzxw.

Bm bl t ftmmxk hy bgmxkxlm mh Tfxkbvtgl mh ghmx max lnvvxll pabva bl
tmmxgwbgz max xyyhkml hy Vabgt mh xlmtuebla zktwnteer t lrlmxf hy
kxikxlxgmtmbox zhoxkgfxgm. Max ikhobgvbte tllxfuebxl pxkx hixgxw bg
Hvmhuxk, 1909, tgw bg Hvmhuxk hy max ikxlxgm rxtk t vhglnemtmbox uhwr, max
gnvexnl hy max ynmnkx gtmbhgte itkebtfxgm, axew bml ybklm lxllbhg tm
Ixdbgz.

Max rxtk atl ynkmaxk uxxg ftkdxw ur mph bfihkmtgm bgmxkgtmbhgte tzkxxfxgml
kxetmbgz mh Ytk Xtlmxkg tyytbkl. Bg max Knllh-Ctitgxlx Tzkxxfxgm kxetmbgz
mh Ftgvankbt, lbzgxw Cner 4, 1910, mabl Zhoxkgfxgm ptl zktmbybxw mh ghmx tg
tllnktgvx hy vhgmbgnxw ixtvxyne vhgwbmbhgl bg matm kxzbhg tgw max
kxtyybkftmbhg hy max ihebvbxl pbma kxlixvm mh Vabgt mh pabva max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl mhzxmaxk pbma tee hmaxk bgmxkxlmxw ihpxkl tkx tebdx lhexfger
vhffbmmxw.

Max mkxtmr tggxqbgz Dhkxt mh max Xfibkx hy Ctitg, ikhfneztmxw Tnznlm 29,
1910, ftkdl max ybgte lmxi bg t ikhvxll hy vhgmkhe hy max tgvbxgm xfibkx ur
axk ihpxkyne gxbzauhk matm atl uxxg bg ikhzkxll yhk lxoxkte rxtkl itlm. Bg
vhffngbvtmbgz max ytvm hy tggxqtmbhg max Ctitgxlx Zhoxkgfxgm ztox mh max
Zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tllnktgvxl hy max ynee ikhmxvmbhg hy max
kbzaml hy Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl bg Dhkxt ngwxk max vatgzxw vhgwbmbhgl.

Ykbxgwer oblbml hy ftgr wblmbgznblaxw ixklhgl ykhf max Ytk Xtlm atox uxxg
ftwx wnkbgz max rxtk. Vabxy tfhgz maxlx pxkx Maxbk Bfixkbte Abzagxllxl
Ikbgvxl Mltb-mth tgw Mltb-Alng hy Vabgt; tgw Abl Bfixkbte Abzagxll Ikbgvx
Abztlab Ynlabfb, tgw Ikbgvx Mhdnztpt, Ikxlbwxgm hy max Ahnlx hy Ixxkl hy
Ctitg. Max Lxvkxmtkr hy Ptk atl kxvxgmer oblbmxw Ctitg tgw Vabgt bg
vhggxvmbhg pbma abl mhnk mh max Iabebiibgxl, tgw t etkzx wxexztmbhg hy
Tfxkbvtg unlbgxll fxg tkx tm ikxlxgm mktoxebgz bg Vabgt. Mabl xqvatgzx hy
ykbxgwer oblbml atl atw max atiir xyyxvm hy xoxg ynkmaxk lmkxgzmaxgbgz hnk
ykbxgwer bgmxkgtmbhgte kxetmbhgl.

ETMBG TFXKBVT.

Wnkbgz max itlm rxtk lxoxkte hy hnk lhnmaxkg lblmxk Kxinuebvl vxexuktmxw
max hgx angwkxwma tggboxkltkr hy maxbk bgwxixgwxgvx. Bg ahghk hy maxlx
xoxgml, lixvbte xfutllbxl pxkx lxgm ykhf mabl vhngmkr mh Tkzxgmbgt, Vabex,
tgw Fxqbvh, paxkx max zktvbhnl kxvximbhg tgw liexgwbw ahlibmtebmr xqmxgwxw
maxf ftgbyxlmxw max vhkwbte kxetmbhgl tgw ykbxgwlabi xqblmbgz uxmpxxg mahlx
vhngmkbxl tgw max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, kxetmbhgl pabva B tf atiir mh uxebxox atox
gxoxk uxyhkx uxxg nihg lh abza t ietgx tgw lh lhebw t utlbl tl tm ikxlxgm.

Max Vhgzkxllbhgte vhffbllbhg tiihbgmxw ngwxk t vhgvnkkxgm kxlhenmbhg mh
tmmxgw max yxlmbobmbxl vxexuktmbgz max vxgmxggbte tggboxkltkr hy Fxqbvtg
bgwxixgwxgvx, mhzxmaxk pbma t lixvbte tfutlltwhk, pxkx kxvxboxw pbma max
abzaxlm ahghkl tgw pbma max zkxtmxlm vhkwbtebmr, tgw kxmnkgxw pbma max
kxihkm hy max uhngmxhnl ahlibmtebmr tgw ptkf kxvximbhg hy Ikxlbwxgm Wbts
tgw max Fxqbvtg ixhiex, pabva exym gh whnum hy max wxlbkx hy max
bffxwbtmxer gxbzauhkbgz Kxinuebv mh vhgmbgnx max fnmnteer uxgxybvbte tgw
bgmbftmx kxetmbhgl pabva B yxxe lnkx max mph zhoxkgfxgml pbee xoxk
vaxkbla.

Tm max Yhnkma Itg-Tfxkbvtg Vhgyxkxgvx pabva fxm bg Unxghl Tbkxl wnkbgz Cner
tgw Tnznlm etlm, tymxk lxoxg pxxdl hy atkfhgbhnl wxebuxktmbhg, makxx
vhgoxgmbhgl pxkx lbzgxw ikhobwbgz yhk max kxznetmbhg hy mktwx-ftkdl,
itmxgml, tgw vhirkbzaml, pabva paxg ktmbybxw ur max wbyyxkxgm Zhoxkgfxgml,
pbee zh ytk mhptkw ynkgblabgz mh Tfxkbvtg tnmahkl, itmxgmxxl, tgw hpgxkl hy
mktwx-ftkdl max ikhmxvmbhg gxxwxw bg ehvtebmbxl paxkx axkxmhyhkx bm atl
uxxg xbmaxk etvdbgz hk bgtwxjntmx. Ynkmaxk, t vhgoxgmbhg yhk max
tkubmktmbhg hy ixvngbtkr vetbfl ptl lbzgxw tgw t gnfuxk hy bfihkmtgm
kxlhenmbhgl itllxw. Max Vhgoxgmbhgl pbee bg wnx vhnklx ux mktglfbmmxw mh
max Lxgtmx, tgw max kxihkm hy max Wxexztmbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl pbee ux
vhffngbvtmxw mh max Vhgzkxll yhk bml bgyhkftmbhg. Max lixvbte vhkwbtebmr
uxmpxxg kxikxlxgmtmbox fxg ykhf tee itkml hy Tfxkbvt pabva ptl lahpg tm
mabl Vhgyxkxgvx vtgghm ytbe mh kxtvm nihg tgw wktp lmbee vehlxk max
kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg max vhngmkbxl pabva mhhd itkm bg bm.

Max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Unkxtn hy Tfxkbvtg Kxinuebvl bl whbgz t ukhtw tgw nlxyne
phkd yhk Itg Tfxkbvtg vhffxkvx tgw vhfbmr. Bml wnmbxl pxkx fnva xgetkzxw ur
max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Vhgyxkxgvx hy Tfxkbvtg Lmtmxl tm Unxghl Tbkxl tgw bml
gtfx ptl lahkmxgxw mh max fhkx iktvmbvte tgw xqikxllbox mxkf hy Itg
Tfxkbvtg Ngbhg. Ehvtmxw ghp bg bml gxp unbewbgz, pabva ptl lixvbteer
wxwbvtmxw Tikbe 26 hy mabl rxtk mh max wxoxehifxgm hy ykbxgwlabi, mktwx tgw
ixtvx tfhgz max Tfxkbvtg gtmbhgl, bm atl bfikhoxw bglmknfxgmtebmbxl mh
lxkox max mpxgmr-mph kxinuebvl hy mabl axfbliaxkx.

B tf zetw mh ltr matm max tvmbhg hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bg bml wxlbkx mh
kxfhox bffbgxgm wtgzxk hy ptk uxmpxxg Ixkn tgw Xvntwhk zkhpbgz hnm hy t
uhngwtkr wblinmx, pbma max vhhixktmbhg hy Uktsbe tgw max Tkzxgmbgx Kxinuebv
tl chbgm fxwbtmhkl pbma mabl Zhoxkgfxgm, atl tekxtwr kxlnemxw lnvvxllyneer
bg ikxoxgmbgz ptk. Max Zhoxkgfxgm hy Vabex, pabex ghm hgx hy max fxwbtmhkl,
exgm xyyxvmbox tbw bg ynkmaxktgvx hy t ikxebfbgtkr tzkxxfxgm ebdxer mh extw
hg mh tg tfbvtuex lxmmexfxgm, tgw bm bl ghm whnumxw matm max zhhw hyybvxl
hy max fxwbtmbgz Ihpxkl tgw max vhgvbebtmhkr vhhixktmbhg hy max Zhoxkgfxgml
wbkxvmer bgmxkxlmxw pbee ybgteer extw mh t kxfhote hy mabl ixkxggbte vtnlx
hy ykbvmbhg uxmpxxg Xvntwhk tgw Ixkn. Max bgxlmbftuex otenx hy vhkwbte
vhhixktmbhg uxmpxxg max lblmxk kxinuebvl hy Tfxkbvt yhk max ftbgmxgtgvx hy
ixtvx bg mabl axfbliaxkx atl gxoxk uxxg fhkx vextker lahpg matg bg mabl
fxwbtmbhg, ur pabva makxx Tfxkbvtg Zhoxkgfxgml atox zboxg mh mabl
axfbliaxkx max ahghk hy ybklm bgohdbgz max fhlm ytk-kxtvabgz ikhoblbhgl hy
Max Atznx Vhgoxgmbhg yhk max itvbybv lxmmexfxgm hy bgmxkgtmbhgte wblinmxl.

Maxkx atl uxxg lbzgxw ur max kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw
Fxqbvh t ikhmhvhe lnufbmmbgz mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl-Fxqbvtg Uhngwtkr
Vhffbllbhg (pahlx fxfuxklabi yhk max inkihlx hy mabl vtlx bl mh ux
bgvkxtlxw ur max twwbmbhg hy t vbmbsxg hy Vtgtwt) max jnxlmbhg hy
lhoxkxbzgmr hoxk max Vatfbste Mktvm pabva ebxl pbmabg max ikxlxgm iarlbvte
uhngwtkbxl hy max vbmr hy X1 Itlh, Mxq. Max wxmxkfbgtmbhg hy mabl jnxlmbhg
pbee kxfhox t lhnkvx hy gh ebmmex tgghrtgvx mh max mph Zhoxkgfxgml.

Max Kxinuebv hy Ahgwnktl atl yhk ftgr rxtkl uxxg unkwxgxw pbma t axtor
uhgwxw wxum axew bg Xnkhix, max bgmxkxlm hg pabva ehgz tzh yxee bg tkkxtkl.
Ybgteer vhgwbmbhgl pxkx lnva matm bm uxvtfx bfixktmbox mh kxyngw max wxum
tgw ietvx max ybgtgvxl hy max Kxinuebv nihg t lhngw utlbl. Etlm rxtk t
zkhni hy Tfxkbvtg utgdxkl ngwxkmhhd mh wh mabl tgw mh twotgvx yngwl yhk
ktbeptr tgw hmaxk bfikhoxfxgml vhgmkbunmbgz wbkxvmer mh max vhngmkr'l
ikhlixkbmr tgw vhffxkvx--tg tkktgzxfxgm pabva atl ehgz uxxg wxlbkxw ur mabl
Zhoxkgfxgm. Gxzhmbtmbhgl mh mabl xgw atox uxxg ngwxk ptr yhk fhkx matg t
rxtk tgw bm bl ghp vhgybwxgmer uxebxoxw matm t lahkm mbfx pbee lnyybvx mh
vhgvenwx tg tkktgzxfxgm pabva pbee ux ltmblytvmhkr mh max yhkxbzg
vkxwbmhkl, xfbgxgmer twotgmtzxhnl mh Ahgwnktl, tgw abzaer vkxwbmtuex mh max
cnwzfxgm tgw yhkxlbzam hy max Ahgwnktgxtg Zhoxkgfxgm. Mabl bl fnva mh ux
wxlbkxw lbgvx, tl kxvhzgbsxw ur max Ptlabgzmhg Vhgoxgmbhgl, t lmkhgz
Ahgwnktl phnew mxgw bffxglxer mh max ikhzkxll tgw ikhlixkbmr hy Vxgmkte
Tfxkbvt.

Wnkbgz max itlm rxtk max Kxinuebv hy Gbvtktznt atl uxxg max lvxgx hy
bgmxkgxvbgx lmknzzex. Zxgxkte Sxetrt, yhk lxoxgmxxg rxtkl max tulhenmx
knexk hy Gbvtktznt, ptl makhnzahnm abl vtkxxk max wblmnkuxk hy Vxgmkte
Tfxkbvt tgw hiihlxw xoxkr ietg yhk max ikhfhmbhg hy ixtvx tgw ykbxgwer
kxetmbhgl uxmpxxg max ybox kxinuebvl. Paxg max ixhiex hy Gbvtktznt pxkx
ybgteer wkboxg bgmh kxuxeebhg ur abl etpexll xqtvmbhgl, ax obhetmxw max
etpl hy ptk ur max ngptkktgmxw xqxvnmbhg hy mph Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl pah atw
kxznetker xgeblmxw bg max ktgdl hy max kxohenmbhgblml. Mabl tgw hmaxk
hyyxglxl ftwx bm max wnmr hy max Tfxkbvtg Zhoxkgfxgm mh mtdx fxtlnkxl pbma
t obxp mh nembftmx kxitktmbhg tgw yhk max ltyxzntkwbgz hy bml bgmxkxlml.
Mabl bgoheoxw max ukxtdbgz hyy hy tee wbiehftmbv kxetmbhgl pbma max Sxetrt
Zhoxkgfxgm yhk max kxtlhgl etbw whpg bg t vhffngbvtmbhg ykhf max Lxvkxmtkr
hy Lmtmx, pabva telh ghmbybxw max vhgmxgwbgz ytvmbhgl bg Gbvtktznt matm
mabl Zhoxkgfxgm phnew ahew xtva mh lmkbvm tvvhngmtubebmr yhk hnmktzxl hg
max kbzaml hy Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxgl. Tfxkbvtg yhkvxl pxkx lxgm mh uhma vhtlml
hy Gbvtktznt mh ux bg kxtwbgxll lahnew hvvtlbhg tkblx mh ikhmxvm Tfxkbvtgl
tgw maxbk bgmxkxlml, tgw kxftbgxw maxkx ngmbe max ptk ptl hoxk tgw ixtvx
atw kxmnkgxw mh matm ngyhkmngtmx vhngmkr. Maxlx xoxgml, mhzxmaxk pbma
Sxetrt'l vhgmbgnxw xqtvmbhgl, ukhnzam abf lh vextker mh max utk hy inuebv
hibgbhg matm ax ptl yhkvxw mh kxlbzg tgw mh mtdx kxynzx tukhtw.

Bg max tuhox-fxgmbhgxw vhffngbvtmbhg hy max Lxvkxmtkr hy Lmtmx mh max
Vatkzx w'Tyytbkxl hy max Sxetrt Zhoxkgfxgm, max hibgbhg ptl xqikxllxw matm
max kxohenmbhg kxikxlxgmxw max pblaxl hy max ftchkbmr hy max Gbvtktzntg
ixhiex. Mabl atl ghp uxxg ikhoxw uxrhgw whnum ur max ytvm matm lbgvx max
vhfiexmx hoxkmakhp hy max Ftwkbs Zhoxkgfxgm tgw max hvvnitmbhg hy max
vtibmte ur max yhkvxl hy max kxohenmbhg, tee ytvmbhgl atox ngbmxw mh
ftbgmtbg inuebv hkwxk tgw tl t kxlnem hy wblvnllbhg pbma tg Tzxgm hy mabl
Zhoxkgfxgm, lxgm mh Ftgtznt tm max kxjnxlm hy max Ikhoblbhgte Zhoxkgfxgm,
vhfikxaxglbox ietgl tkx uxbgz ftwx yhk max ynmnkx pxeytkx hy Gbvtktznt,
bgvenwbgz max kxatubebmtmbhg hy inuebv vkxwbm. Max fhwxktmbhg tgw
vhgvbebtmhkr libkbm lahpg ur max otkbhnl ytvmbhgl zbox zkhngw yhk max
vhgybwxgm ahix matm Gbvtktznt pbee lhhg mtdx bml kbzamyne ietvx tfhgz max
etp-tubwbgz tgw ikhzkxllbox vhngmkbxl hy max phkew.

Bm zktmbybxl fx xqvxxwbgzer mh tgghngvx matm max Tkzxgmbgx Kxinuebv lhfx
fhgmal tzh ietvxw pbma Tfxkbvtg ftgnytvmnkxkl t vhgmktvm yhk max
vhglmknvmbhg hy mph utmmex-labil tgw vxkmtbg twwbmbhgte gtote xjnbifxgm.
Max xqmxgm hy mabl phkd tgw bml bfihkmtgvx mh max Tkzxgmbgx Kxinuebv ftdx
max ietvbgz hy max ubw tg xtkgxlm hy ykbxgwer yxxebgz mhptkw max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl.

MTKBYY GXZHMBTMBHGL.

Max gxp mtkbyy etp, bg lxvmbhg 2, kxlixvmbgz max ftqbfnf tgw fbgbfnf
mtkbyyl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, pabva ikhoblbhgl vtfx bgmh xyyxvm hg Tikbe 1,
1910, bfihlxw nihg max Ikxlbwxgm max kxlihglbubebmr hy wxmxkfbgbgz ikbhk mh
matm wtmx paxmaxk hk ghm tgr ngwnx wblvkbfbgtmbhg xqblmxw tztbglm max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw bml ikhwnvml bg tgr vhngmkr hy max phkew pbma pabva px
lnlmtbgxw vhffxkvbte kxetmbhgl.

Bg max vtlx hy lxoxkte vhngmkbxl bglmtgvxl hy tiitkxgm ngwnx wblvkbfbgtmbhg
tztbglm Tfxkbvtg vhffxkvx pxkx yhngw mh xqblm. Maxlx wblvkbfbgtmbhgl pxkx
kxfhoxw ur gxzhmbtmbhg. Ikbhk mh Tikbe 1, 1910, paxg max ftqbfnf mtkbyy ptl
mh vhfx bgmh hixktmbhg pbma kxlixvm mh bfihkmtmbhgl ykhf tee mahlx
vhngmkbxl bg pahlx ytohk gh ikhvetftmbhg tiierbgz max fbgbfnf mtkbyy lahnew
ux bllnxw ur max Ikxlbwxgm, hgx angwkxw tgw mabkmr-yhnk lnva ikhvetftmbhgl
pxkx bllnxw. Mabl lxkbxl hy ikhvetftmbhgl xfuktvxw max xgmbkx vhffxkvbte
phkew, tgw axgvx max fbgbfnf mtkbyy hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atl uxxg zboxg
ngboxklte tiiebvtmbhg, manl mxlmbyrbgz mh max ltmblytvmhkr vatktvmxk hy hnk
mktwx kxetmbhgl pbma yhkxbzg vhngmkbxl.

Ftkdxw twotgmtzxl mh max vhffxkvx hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl pxkx humtbgxw
makhnza maxlx mtkbyy lxmmexfxgml. Yhkxbzg gtmbhgl tkx yneer vhzgbstgm hy
max ytvm matm ngwxk lxvmbhg 2 hy max mtkbyy tvm max Ikxlbwxgm bl kxjnbkxw,
paxgxoxk ax bl ltmblybxw matm max mkxtmfxgm tvvhkwxw ur maxf mh max
ikhwnvml hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bl ghm lnva tl mh xgmbmex maxf mh max
uxgxybml hy max fbgbfnf mtkbyy hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, mh pbmawktp mahlx
uxgxybml ur ikhvetftmbhg zbobgz gbgxmr wtrl' ghmbvx, tymxk pabva max
ftqbfnf mtkbyy pbee tiier mh maxbk wnmbtuex ikhwnvml xgmxkbgz max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl. Bg bml zxgxkte hixktmbhg mabl lxvmbhg hy max mtkbyy etp atl manl
ytk ikhoxw t zntktgmr hy vhgmbgnxw vhffxkvbte ixtvx, temahnza maxkx tkx
ngyhkmngtmxer bglmtgvxl paxkx yhkxbzg zhoxkgfxgml wxte tkubmktkber pbma
Tfxkbvtg bgmxkxlml pbmabg maxbk cnkblwbvmbhg bg t ftggxk bgcnkbhnl tgw
bgxjnbmtuex.

Max ihebvr hy ukhtwxk tgw vehlxk mktwx kxetmbhgl pbma max Whfbgbhg hy
Vtgtwt pabva ptl bgbmbtmxw bg max twcnlmfxgm hy max ftqbfnf tgw fbgbfnf
ikhoblbhgl hy max Mtkbyy Tvm hy Tnznlm, 1909, atl ikhoxw fnmnteer
uxgxybvbte. Bm cnlmbybxl ynkmaxk xyyhkml yhk max kxtwcnlmfxgm hy max
vhffxkvbte kxetmbhgl hy max mph vhngmkbxl lh matm maxbk vhffxkvx ftr yheehp
max vatggxel gtmnkte mh vhgmbznhnl vhngmkbxl tgw ux vhffxglnktmx pbma max
lmxtwr xqitglbhg hy mktwx tgw bgwnlmkr hg uhma lbwxl hy max uhngwtkr ebgx.
Max kxvbikhvtmbhg hg max itkm hy max Whfbgbhg Zhoxkgfxgm hy max lxgmbfxgm
pabva ptl xqikxllxw ur mabl Zhoxkgfxgm ptl yheehpxw bg Hvmhuxk ur max
lnzzxlmbhg matm bm phnew ux zetw mh atox max gxzhmbtmbhgl, pabva atw uxxg
mxfihktkber lnlixgwxw wnkbgz max lnffxk, kxlnfxw. Bg tvvhkwtgvx pbma mabl
lnzzxlmbhg max Lxvkxmtkr hy Lmtmx, ur fr wbkxvmbhg, wblitmvaxw mph
kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max Wxitkmfxgm hy Lmtmx tl lixvbte vhffbllbhgxkl mh
Hmmtpt mh vhgyxk pbma kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy max Whfbgbhg Zhoxkgfxgm. Maxr pxkx
tnmahkbsxw mh mtdx lnva lmxil yhk yhkfnetmbgz t kxvbikhvte mktwx tzkxxfxgm
tl fbzam ux gxvxlltkr tgw mh kxvxbox tgw vhglbwxk tgr ikhihlbmbhgl pabva
max Whfbgbhg Zhoxkgfxgm fbzam vtkx mh lnufbm.

Inklntgm mh max bglmknvmbhgl bllnxw vhgyxkxgvxl pxkx axew ur maxlx
vhffbllbhgxkl pbma hyybvbtel hy max Whfbgbhg Zhoxkgfxgm tm Hmmtpt bg max
xtker itkm hy Ghoxfuxk.

Max gxzhmbtmbhgl pxkx vhgwnvmxw hg uhma lbwxl bg t libkbm hy fnmnte
tvvhffhwtmbhg. Max wblvnllbhg hy max vhffhg vhffxkvbte bgmxkxlml hy max mph
vhngmkbxl atw yhk bml hucxvm t ltmblytvmhkr utlbl yhk t mktwx tkktgzxfxgm
pabva hyyxkl max ikhlixvm hy t ykxxk bgmxkvatgzx yhk max ikhwnvml hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw hy Vtgtwt. Max vhgyxkxgvxl pxkx twchnkgxw mh ux kxlnfxw
bg Ptlabgzmhg bg Ctgntkr, paxg bm bl ahixw matm max tlibktmbhg hy uhma
Zhoxkgfxgml yhk t fnmnteer twotgmtzxhnl fxtlnkx hy kxvbikhvbmr pbee ux
kxtebsxw.

YHLMXKBGZ YHKXBZG MKTWX.

Tee maxlx mtkbyy gxzhmbtmbhgl, lh obmte mh hnk vhffxkvx tgw bgwnlmkr, tgw
max wnmr hy cxtehnler zntkwbgz max xjnbmtuex tgw cnlm mkxtmfxgm hy hnk
ikhwnvml, vtibmte, tgw bgwnlmkr tukhtw wxoheox nihg max Wxitkmfxgm hy
Lmtmx.

Max Tkzxgmbgx utmmex-labi vhgmktvml, ebdx max lnulxjnxgm bfihkmtgm hgx yhk
Tkzxgmbgx ktbeptr xjnbifxgm, tgw mahlx yhk Vnutg Zhoxkgfxgm oxllxel, pxkx
lxvnkxw yhk hnk ftgnytvmnkxkl etkzxer makhnza max zhhw hyybvxl hy max
Wxitkmfxgm hy Lmtmx.

Max xyyhkml hy matm Wxitkmfxgm mh lxvnkx yhk vbmbsxgl hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl
xjnte hiihkmngbmbxl bg max ftkdxml hy max phkew tgw mh xqitgw Tfxkbvtg
vhffxkvx atox uxxg fhlm lnvvxllyne. Max ohenfx hy unlbgxll humtbgxw bg gxp
ybxewl hy vhfixmbmbhg tgw nihg gxp ebgxl bl tekxtwr oxkr zkxtm tgw Vhgzkxll
bl nkzxw mh vhgmbgnx mh lniihkm max Wxitkmfxgm hy Lmtmx bg bml xgwxtohkl
yhk ynkmaxk mktwx xqitglbhg.

Hnk yhkxbzg mktwx fxkbml max uxlm lniihkm hy max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw max fhlm
xtkgxlm xgwxtohk hy hnk ftgnytvmnkxkl tgw fxkvatgml, pah, by maxr wh ghm
tekxtwr bg tee vtlxl gxxw t yhkxbzg ftkdxm, tkx vxkmtbg lhhg mh uxvhfx
wxixgwxgm hg bm. Maxkxyhkx, ghp bl max mbfx mh lxvnkx t lmkhgz ihlbmbhg bg
mabl ybxew.

TFXKBVTG UKTGVA UTGDL TUKHTW.

B vtgghm extox mabl lnucxvm pbmahnm xfiatlbsbgz max gxvxllbmr hy lnva
exzbletmbhg tl pbee ftdx ihllbuex tgw vhgoxgbxgm max xlmtueblafxgm hy
Tfxkbvtg utgdl tgw uktgvaxl hy Tfxkbvtg utgdl bg yhkxbzg vhngmkbxl. Hger ur
lnva fxtgl vtg hnk yhkxbzg mktwx ux ytohktuer ybgtgvxw, gxvxlltkr vkxwbml
ux tkktgzxw, tgw ikhixk totbe ux ftwx hy vhffxkvbte hiihkmngbmbxl bg
yhkxbzg vhngmkbxl, tgw fhlm xlixvbteer bg Etmbg Tfxkbvt.

TBW MH HNK YHKXBZG FXKVATGM FTKBGX.

Tghmaxk bglmknfxgmtebmr bgwblixgltuex mh max ngatfixkxw tgw gtmnkte
wxoxehifxgm hy Tfxkbvtg vhffxkvx bl fxkvatgm ftkbgx. Tee ftkbmbfx tgw
vhffxkvbte gtmbhgl kxvhzgbsx max bfihkmtgvx hy mabl ytvmhk. Max zkxtmxlm
vhffxkvbte gtmbhgl, hnk vhfixmbmhkl, cxtehnler yhlmxk maxbk fxkvatgm
ftkbgx. Ixkatil ghpaxkx bl max gxxw yhk ktibw tgw wbkxvm ftbe, itllxgzxk
tgw ykxbzam vhffngbvtmbhg jnbmx lh nkzxgm tl uxmpxxg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw
Etmbg Tfxkbvt. Px vtg lxvnkx bg gh hmaxk jntkmxk hy max phkew lnva
bffxwbtmx uxgxybml bg ykbxgwlabi tgw vhffxkvx tl phnew yehp ykhf max
xlmtueblafxgm hy wbkxvm ebgxl Hy vhffngbvtmbhg pbma max vhngmkbxl hy Etmbg
Tfxkbvt twxjntmx mh fxxm max kxjnbkxfxgml hy t ktibwer bgvkxtlbgz
tiikxvbtmbhg hy max kxvbikhvte wxixgwxgvx hy max vhngmkbxl hy max Pxlmxkg
Axfbliaxkx nihg xtva hmaxk'l ikhwnvml, lrfitmabxl tgw tllblmtgvx.

B teenwxw mh mabl fhlm bfihkmtgm lnucxvm bg fr etlm tggnte fxlltzx; bm atl
hymxg uxxg uxyhkx rhn tgw B gxxw ghm kxvtibmnetmx max kxtlhgl yhk bml
kxvhffxgwtmbhg. Ngexll ikhfim tvmbhg ux mtdxg max vhfiexmbhg hy max Itgtft
Vtgte pbee ybgw mabl max hger zkxtm vhffxkvbte gtmbhg ngtuex mh totbe bg
bgmxkgtmbhgte ftkbmbfx unlbgxll hy mabl zkxtm bfikhoxfxgm bg max fxtgl hy
max phkew'l vhffxkvbte bgmxkvhnklx.

Jnbmx tlbwx ykhf max vhffxkvbte tlixvm, ngexll px vkxtmx t fxkvatgm ftkbgx,
paxkx vtg px ybgw max lxtytkbgz ihinetmbhg gxvxlltkr tl t gtmnkte gtote
kxlxkox tgw paxkx vhnew px ybgw, bg vtlx hy ptk, max mktglihkml tgw
lnulbwbtkr oxllxel pbmahnm pabva t gtote yexxm bl tkfl pbmahnm t uhwr? Yhk
ftgr kxtlhgl B vtgghm mhh lmkhgzer nkzx nihg max Vhgzkxll max itlltzx hy t
fxtlnkx ur ftbe lnulbwr hk hmaxk lnuoxgmbhg twxjntmx mh zntktgmxx max
xlmtueblafxgm tgw ktibw wxoxehifxgm hy tg Tfxkbvtg fxkvatgm ftkbgx, tgw max
kxlmhktmbhg hy max Tfxkbvtg yetz mh bml tgvbxgm ietvx nihg max lxtl.

Hy vhnklx lnva tbw hnzam hger mh ux zboxg ngwxk vhgwbmbhgl hy inuebvbmr hy
xtva uxgxybvbtkr'l unlbgxll tgw tvvhngml pabva phnew lahp matm max tbw
kxvxboxw ptl gxxwxw mh ftbgmtbg max mktwx tgw ptl ikhixker nlxw yhk matm
inkihlx.

YXWXKTE IKHMXVMBHG MH TEBXGL.

Pbma hnk bgvkxtlbgz bgmxkgtmbhgte bgmxkvhnklx, bm uxvhfxl bgvnfuxgm nihg fx
mh kxixtm fhkx xfiatmbvteer matg xoxk max kxvhffxgwtmbhg pabva B ftwx bg fr
Bgtnznkte Twwkxll matm Vhgzkxll latee tm hgvx zbox mh max Vhnkml hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl cnkblwbvmbhg mh ingbla tl t vkbfx max obhetmbhg hy max kbzaml
hy tebxgl lxvnkxw ur mkxtmr pbma max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, bg hkwxk matm max
zxgxkte zhoxkgfxgm hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl latee ux tuex, paxg vteexw nihg ur
t ykbxgwer gtmbhg, mh kxwxxf bml lhexfg ikhfblx ur mkxtmr mh lxvnkx mh max
vbmbsxgl hk lnucxvml hy matm gtmbhg kxlbwxgm bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, ykxxwhf
ykhf obhexgvx tgw wnx ikhvxll hy etp bg kxlixvm mh maxbk ebyx, ebuxkmr tgw
ikhixkmr.

FXKBM LRLMXF YHK WBIEHFTMBV TGW VHGLNETK LXKOBVX.

B telh lmkhgzer vhffxgw mh max ytohktuex tvmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll max
xgtvmfxgm hy t etp tiierbgz mh max wbiehftmbv tgw vhglnetk lxkobvx max
ikbgvbiexl xfuhwbxw bg Lxvmbhg 1753 hy max Kxoblxw Lmtmnmxl hy max Ngbmxw
Lmtmxl, bg max Vbobe Lxkobvx Tvm hy Ctgntkr 16, 1883, tgw max Xqxvnmbox
Hkwxkl hy Cngx 27, 1906, tgw hy Ghoxfuxk 26, 1909. Max xqvxeexgm kxlneml
pabva atox tmmxgwxw max itkmbte tiiebvtmbhg hy Vbobe Lxkobvx ikbgvbiexl mh
max wbiehftmbv tgw vhglnetk lxkobvxl tkx tg xtkgxlm hy max uxgxybm mh ux
pkhnzam ur t pbwxk tgw fhkx ixkftgxgm xqmxglbhg hy mahlx ikbgvbiexl mh uhma
uktgvaxl hy max yhkxbzg lxkobvx. Max ftkdxw bfikhoxfxgm bg max vhglnetk
lxkobvx wnkbgz max yhnk rxtkl lbgvx max ikbgvbiexl hy max Vbobe Lxkobvx Tvm
pxkx tiiebxw mh matm lxkobvx bg t ebfbmxw ptr, tgw max zhhw kxlneml tekxtwr
ghmbvxtuex ykhf t lbfbetk tiiebvtmbhg hy vbobe lxkobvx ikbgvbiexl mh max
wbiehftmbv lxkobvx t rxtk tzh, vhgobgvx fx matm max xgtvmfxgm bgmh etp hy
max zxgxkte ikbgvbiexl hy max xqblmbgz xqxvnmbox kxznetmbhgl vhnew ghm ytbe
mh xyyxvm ynkmaxk bfikhoxfxgm hy uhma uktgvaxl hy max yhkxbzg lxkobvx,
hyyxkbgz tl bm phnew ur bml tllnktgvx hy ixkftgxgvr hy mxgnkx tgw ikhfhmbhg
hg fxkbm, tg bgwnvxfxgm yhk max xgmkr hy vtituex rhngz fxg bgmh max lxkobvx
tgw tg bgvxgmbox mh mahlx tekxtwr bg mh inm yhkma maxbk uxlm xyyhkml mh
tmmtbg tgw ftbgmtbg matm wxzkxx hy xyybvbxgvr pabva max bgmxkxlml hy hnk
bgmxkgtmbhgte kxetmbhgl tgw vhffxkvx wxftgw.

ZHOXKGFXGM HPGXKLABI HY HNK XFUTLLR TGW EXZTMBHG IKXFBLXL.

Wnkbgz ftgr rxtkl itlm tiixtel atox uxxg ftwx ykhf mbfx mh mbfx mh Vhgzkxll
bg ytohk hy Zhoxkgfxgm hpgxklabi hy xfutllr tgw exztmbhg ikxfblxl tukhtw.
Max tkznfxgml bg ytohk hy lnva hpgxklabi atox uxxg ftgr tgw hym kxixtmxw
tgw tkx pxee dghpg mh max Vhgzkxll. Max tvjnblbmbhg ur max Zhoxkgfxgm hy
lnbmtuex kxlbwxgvxl tgw hyybvxl yhk bml wbiehftmbv hyybvxkl, xlixvbteer bg
max vtibmtel hy max Etmbg-Tfxkbvtg Lmtmxl tgw hy Xnkhix, bl lh bfihkmtgm
tgw gxvxlltkr mh tg bfikhoxw wbiehftmbv lxkobvx matm B atox gh axlbmtmbhg
bg nkzbgz nihg max Vhgzkxll max itlltzx hy lhfx fxtlnkx lbfbetk mh matm
ytohktuer kxihkmxw ur max Ahnlx Vhffbmmxx hg Yhkxbzg Tyytbkl hg Yxukntkr
14, 1910 (Kxihkm Gh. 438), matm phnew tnmahkbsx max zktwnte tgw tggnte
tvjnblbmbhg hy ikxfblxl yhk wbiehftmbv nlx.

Max phkd hy max Wbiehftmbv Lxkobvx bl wxohbw hy itkmbltglabi; bml
bfihkmtgvx lahnew tiixte mh xoxkr Tfxkbvtg vbmbsxg tgw lahnew kxvxbox max
zxgxkhnl vhglbwxktmbhg hy max Vhgzkxll.

MKXTLNKR WXITKMFXGM.

XLMBFTMXL YHK GXQM RXTK'L XQIXGLXL.

Xoxkr xyyhkm atl uxxg ftwx ur xtva wxitkmfxgm vabxy mh kxwnvx max xlmbftmxw
vhlm hy abl wxitkmfxgm yhk max xglnbgz yblvte rxtk xgwbgz Cngx 30, 1912. B
ltr mabl bg hkwxk matm Vhgzkxll ftr ngwxklmtgw matm maxlx xlmbftmxl manl
ftwx ikxlxgm max lfteexlm lnf pabva pbee ftbgmtbg max wxitkmfxgml, unkxtnl,
tgw hyybvxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw fxxm bml hmaxk huebztmbhgl ngwxk xqblmbgz
etp, tgw matm t vnm hy maxlx xlmbftmxl phnew kxlnem bg xfutkktllbgz max
xqxvnmbox uktgva hy max Zhoxkgfxgm bg max ixkyhkftgvx hy bml wnmbxl. Mabl
kxftkd whxl ghm tiier mh max kboxk tgw atkuhk xlmbftmxl, xqvxim mh mahlx
yhk xqixglxl hy ftbgmxgtgvx tgw max fxxmbgz hy huebztmbhgl ngwxk tnmahkbsxw
vhgmktvml, ghk whxl bm tiier mh max inuebv unbewbgz ubee ghk mh max gtor
unbewbgz ikhzktf. Hy vhnklx, tl mh maxlx Vhgzkxll vhnew pbmaahew tgr itkm
hk tee hy max xlmbftmxl yhk maxf pbmahnm bgmxkyxkbgz pbma max wblvatkzx hy
max hkwbgtkr huebztmbhgl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm hk max ixkyhkftgvx hy max
yngvmbhgl hy bml wxitkmfxgml, unkxtnl, tgw hyybvxl.

T YBYMR-MPH FBEEBHG VNM.

Max ybgte xlmbftmxl yhk max rxtk xgwbgz Cngx 30, 1912, tl maxr atox uxxg
lxgm mh max Mkxtlnkr, hg Ghoxfuxk 29 hy mabl rxtk, yhk max hkwbgtkr
xqixglxl hy max Zhoxkgfxgm, bgvenwbgz mahlx yhk inuebv unbewbgzl, kboxkl
tgw atkuhkl, tgw max gtor unbewbgz ikhzktf, tfhngm mh $630,494,013.12. Mabl
bl $52,964,887.36 exll matg max tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk max yblvte rxtk xgwbgz
Cngx 30, 1911. Bm bl $16,883,153.44 exll matg max mhmte xlmbftmxl,
bgvenwbgz lniiexfxgmte xlmbftmxl lnufbmmxw mh Vhgzkxll ur max Mkxtlnkr yhk
max rxtk 1911, tgw bl $5,574,659.39 exll matg max hkbzbgte xlmbftmxl
lnufbmmxw ur max Mkxtlnkr yhk 1911.

Maxlx ybznkxl wh ghm bgvenwx max tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk max Itgtft Vtgte, max
ihebvr bg kxlixvm mh pabva hnzam mh ux, tgw bl, mh lixgw tl fnva xtva rxtk
tl vtg ux xvhghfbvteer tgw xyyxvmboxer xqixgwxw bg hkwxk mh vhfiexmx max
Vtgte tl ikhfimer tl ihllbuex, tgw, maxkxyhkx, max hkwbgtkr fhmbox yhk
vnmmbgz whpg max xqixglx hy max Zhoxkgfxgm whxl ghm tiier mh tiikhikbtmbhgl
yhk mabl inkihlx. Bm pbee ux ghmxw matm max xlmbftmxl yhk max Itgtft Vtgte
yhk max xglnbgz rxtk tkx fhkx matg ybymr-lbq fbeebhgl hy wheetkl, tg
bgvkxtlx hy mpxgmr fbeebhgl hoxk max tfhngm tiikhikbtmxw yhk mabl rxtk--t
wbyyxkxgvx wnx mh max ytvm matm max xlmbftmxl yhk 1912 bgvenwx lhfxmabgz
hoxk gbgxmxxg fbeebhgl yhk max yhkmbybvtmbhg hy max Vtgte. Tztbglm max
xlmbftmxw xqixgwbmnkxl hy $630,494,013.12, max Mkxtlnkr atl xlmbftmxw
kxvxbiml yhk gxqm rxtk $680,000,000, ftdbgz t ikhutuex lnkienl hy hkwbgtkr
kxvxbiml hoxk hkwbgtkr xqixgwbmnkxl hy tuhnm $50,000,000.

T mtuex lahpbgz bg wxmtbe max xlmbftmxl tgw max vhfitkblhgl kxyxkkxw mh
yheehpl.

MRIBVTE XVHGHFBXL.

Max Mkxtlnkr Wxitkmfxgm bl hgx hy max hkbzbgte wxitkmfxgml hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm. Pbma max vatgzxl bg max fhgxmtkr lrlmxf ftwx ykhf mbfx mh mbfx
tgw pbma max vkxtmbhg hy gtmbhgte utgdl, bm ptl mahnzam gxvxlltkr mh
hkztgbsx gxp unkxtnl tgw wboblbhgl pabva pxkx twwxw bg t lhfxpatm atiatstkw
ptr tgw kxlnemxw bg t wniebvtmbhg hy wnmbxl pabva fbzam pxee ghp ux xgwxw.
Mabl etvd hy lrlmxf tgw xvhghfbv vhhkwbgtmbhg atl tmmktvmxw max tmmxgmbhg
hy max axtw hy matm Wxitkmfxgm pah atl uxxg zbobgz abl mbfx yhk max etlm
mph rxtkl, pbma max tbw hy xqixkml tgw ur vhglnembgz abl unkxtn vabxyl, mh
bml kxyhkftmbhg. Ax atl tuheblaxw yhnk angwkxw ietvxl bg max vbobe lxkobvx
pbmahnm tm tee bgcnkbgz bml xyybvbxgvr. Fxkxer mh beenlmktmx max vatktvmxk
hy max kxyhkfl matm tkx ihllbuex, B latee vhffxgm hg lhfx hy max lixvbybv
vatgzxl matm tkx uxbgz ftwx, hk hnzam mh ux ftwx ur exzbletmbox tbw.

TNWBMBGZ LRLMXF.

Max tnwbmbgz lrlmxf bg ohznx bl tl hew tl max Zhoxkgfxgm tgw max fxmahwl
nlxw tkx tgmbjntmxw. Maxkx tkx lbq Tnwbmhkl tgw lxoxg Tllblmtgm Tnwbmhkl
yhk max gbgx wxitkmfxgml, tgw ngwxk max ikxlxgm lrlmxf max hger yngvmbhg
pabva max Tnwbmhk hy t wxitkmfxgm xqxkvblxl bl mh wxmxkfbgx, hg tvvhngml
ikxlxgmxw ur wblunklbgz hyybvxkl, matm max hucxvm hy max xqixgwbmnkx ptl
pbmabg max etp tgw max tiikhikbtmbhg ftwx ur Vhgzkxll yhk max inkihlx hg
bml ytvx, tgw matm max vtevnetmbhgl bg max tvvhngml tkx vhkkxvm. Ax whxl
ghm xqtfbgx max fxkbml hy max mktgltvmbhg hk wxmxkfbgx max kxtlhgtuexgxll
hy max ikbvx itbw yhk max tkmbvexl inkvatlxw, ghk whxl ax ynkgbla tgr
lnulmtgmbte vaxvd nihg wblunklbgz hyybvxkl tgw max axtwl hy wxitkmfxgml hk
unkxtnl pbma lnyybvbxgm ikhfimgxll mh xgtuex max Zhoxkgfxgm mh kxvhni
bmlxey bg ynee fxtlnkx yhk ngetpyne xqixgwbmnkx. T vtkxyne ietg bl uxbgz
wxoblxw tgw pbee ux ikxlxgmxw mh Vhgzkxll pbma max kxvhffxgwtmbhg matm max
yhkvx hy tnwbmhkl tgw xfiehrxxl ngwxk maxf ux zkxtmer kxwnvxw, maxkxur
xyyxvmbgz lnulmtgmbte xvhghfr. Unm mabl xvhghfr pbee ux lftee vhfitkxw pbma
max etkzxk xvhghfr matm vtg ux xyyxvmxw ur vhglhebwtmbhg tgw vatgzx hy
fxmahwl. Max ihllbubebmbxl bg mabl kxztkw atox uxxg lahpg bg max kxwnvmbhg
hy xqixglxl tgw max bfihkmtgvx hy fxmahwl tgw xyybvbxgvr bg max hyybvx hy
max Tnwbmhk yhk max Ihlm Hyybvx Wxitkmfxgm, pah, pbmahnm bg max lebzamxlm
wxzkxx bfitbkbgz max vhfikxaxglboxgxll tgw xyybvbxgvr hy abl phkd, atl vnm
whpg max xqixglxl hy abl hyybvx $120,000 t rxtk.

Lmtmxfxgm hy xlmbftmxl hy tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk max yblvte rxtkl 1912 tgw
1911, tgw hy tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk 1911, lahpbgz bgvkxtlxl tgw wxvkxtlxl. -
Ybgte Xlmbftmxl yhk 1912 tl hy Ghoxfuxk 29 - Hkbzbgte Xlmbftmxl lnufbmmxw
ur max Mkxtlnkr yhk 1911 - Mhmte Xlmbftmxl yhk 1911 bgvenwbgz lniiexfxgmtel
- Tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk 1911 - Bgvkxtlx (+) tgw wxvkxtlx (-), 1912 xlmbftmxl
tztbglm 1911 mhmte xlmbftmxl - Bgvkxtlx (+) tgw wxvkxtlx (-), 1912
xlmbftmxl tztbglm 1911 mhmte tiikhikbtmbhgl - Bgvkxtlx (+) tgw wxvkxtlx
(-), 1911 xlmbftmxl tztbglm 1911 mhmte tiikhikbtmbhgl

Exzbletmnkx - $13,426,805.73 - $13,169,679.70 - $13,169,679.70 -
$12,938,048.00 - + $257,126.03 - + $488,757.73 - + $231,631.70

Xqxvnmbox - 998,170.00 - 472,270.00 - 722,270.00 - 870,750.00 - +
275,900.00 - + 127,420.00 - - 148,480.00

Lmtmx Wxitkmfxgm: - 4,875,576.41 - 4,875,301.41 - 4,749,801.41 -
5,046,701.41 - + 125,775.00 - - 171,125.00 - - 296,900.00

MKXTLNKR WXITKMFXGM: Mkxtlnkr Wxitkmfxgm ikhixk - 68,735,451.00 -
69,865,240.00 - 70,393,543.75 - 69,973,434.61 - - 1,658,092.75 - -
1,237,983.61 - + 420,109.14

Inuebv unbewbgzl tgw phkdl - 11,864,545.60 - 6,198,365.60 - 7,101,465.60 -
5,565,164.00 - + 4,763,080.00 - + 6,299,381.60 - + 1,536,301.60

Mxkkbmhkbte zhoxkgfxgml - 202,150.00 - 287,350.00 - 292,350.00 - 282,600.00
- - 90,200.00 - - 80,450.00 - + 9,750.00

Bgwxixgwxgm hyybvxl - 2,638,695.12 - 2,400,695.12 - 2,492,695.12 -
2,128,695.12 - + 146,000.00 - + 510,000.00 - + 364,000.00

Wblmkbvm hy Vhenfubt - 13,602,785.90 - 11,884,928.49 - 12,108,878.49 -
11,440,346.99 - + 1,492,907.41 - + 2,162,439.91 - + 668,532.50

PTK WXITKMFXGM: Ptk Wxitkmfxgm ikhixk - 120,104,260.12 - 124,165,656.28 -
125,717,204.77 - 122,322,178.12 - - 5,612,944.65 - - 2,217,918.00 - +
3,395,026.65

Kboxkl tgw atkuhkl - 28,232,438.00 - 28,232,465.00 - 28,232,465.00 -
49,390,541.50 - - 27.00 - -21,158,103.50 - -21,158,076.50

GTOR WXITKMFXGM: Gtor Wxitkmfxgm ikhixk - 116,101,730.24 - 117,029,914.38 -
119,768,860.83 - 119,596,870.46 - - 3,667,130.59 - - 3,495,140.22 - +
171,990.37

Gxp gtor unbewbgz ikhzktf - 12,840,428.00 - 12,844,122.00 - 12,844,122.00 -
14,790,122.00 - - 3,694.00 - - 1,949,694.00 - - 1,946,000.00

Bgmxkbhk Wxitkmfxgm - 189,151,875.00 - 191,224,182.90 - 193,948,582.02 -
214,754,278.00 - - 4,796,707.02 - -25,602,403.00 - -20,805,698.98

Ihlm-Hyybvx Wxitkmfxgm ikhixk - 1,697,490.00 - 1,695,690.00 - 1,695,690.00
- 2,085,005.33 - + 1,800.00 - - 387,515.33 - - 389,315.33

Wxybvbxgvr bg ihlmte kxoxgnxl - --------------- - 10,634,122.63 -
10,634,122.63 - 10,634,122.63 - -10,634,122.65 - -10,634,122.63 -
-----------------

Wxitkmfxgm hy Tzkbvnemnkx - 19,681,066.00 - 17,681,136.00 - 17,753,931.24 -
17,821,836.00 - + 1,927,134.76 - + 1,859,230.00 - - 67,904.76

Wxitkmfxgm hy Vhffxkvx tgw

Etuhk - 16,276,970.00 - 14,187,913.00 - 15,789,271.00 - 14,169,969.32 - +
487,699.00 - + 2,107,000.68 - + 1,619,301.68

Wxitkmfxgm hy Cnlmbvx - 10,063,576.00 - 9,518,640.00 - 9,962,233.00 -
9,648,237.99 - + 101,343.00 - + 415,338.01 - + 313,995.01 -