KVMO D

Ocdn hznnvbz dn ocz admno ja nzqzmvg rcdxc D ncvgg nziy oj Xjibmznn ypmdib
ocz diozmqvg wzorzzi ocz jkzidib ja don mzbpgvm nznndji viy don vyejpmihzio
ajm ocz Xcmdnohvn cjgdyvtn. Ocz vhjpio ja diajmhvodji oj wz xjhhpidxvozy vn
oj ocz jkzmvodjin ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, ocz iphwzm ja dhkjmovio npwezxon
xvggdib ajm xjhhzio wt ocz Zszxpodqz, viy ocz omvinhdnndji oj Xjibmznn ja
zscvpnodqz mzkjmon ja nkzxdvg xjhhdnndjin, hvfz do dhkjnndwgz oj dixgpyz di
jiz hznnvbz ja v mzvnjivwgz gziboc v ydnxpnndji ja ocz ojkdxn ocvo jpbco oj
wz wmjpbco oj ocz vooziodji ja ocz Ivodjivg Gzbdngvopmz vo don admno
mzbpgvm nznndji.

OCZ VIOD-OMPNO GVR-OCZ NPKMZHZ XJPMO YZXDNDJIN.

Di Hvt gvno ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo cviyzy yjri yzxdndjin di ocz npdon di zlpdot
wmjpbco wt ocz Pidozy Novozn oj ziejdi ocz apmoczm hvdiozivixz ja ocz
Noviyvmy Jdg Ompno viy ja ocz Vhzmdxvi Ojwvxxj Ompno, viy oj nzxpmz oczdm
ydnnjgpodji. Ocz yzxdndjin vmz zkjxc-hvfdib viy nzmqz oj vyqdnz ocz
wpndiznn rjmgy vpocjmdovodqzgt ja ocz nxjkz viy jkzmvodji ja ocz viod-ompno
vxo ja 1890. Ocz yzxdndjin yj ijo yzkvmo di vit npwnoviodvg rvt amjh ocz
kmzqdjpn yzxdndjin ja ocz xjpmo di xjinompdib viy vkkgtdib ocdn dhkjmovio
novopoz, wpo oczt xgvmdat ocjnz yzxdndjin wt apmoczm yzadidib ocz vgmzvyt
vyhdoozy zsxzkodjin oj ocz gdozmvg xjinompxodji ja ocz vxo. Wt ocz yzxmzzn,
oczt apmidnc v pnzapg kmzxzyzio vn oj ocz kmjkzm hzocjy ja yzvgdib rdoc ocz
xvkdovg viy kmjkzmot ja dggzbvg ompnon. Ocznz yzxdndjin npbbzno ocz izzy
viy rdnyjh ja vyydodjivg jm npkkgzhziovg gzbdngvodji oj hvfz do zvndzm ajm
ocz ziodmz wpndiznn xjhhpidot oj nlpvmz rdoc ocz mpgz ja vxodji viy
gzbvgdot ocpn adivggt znovwgdnczy viy oj kmznzmqz ocz wzizado, amzzyjh, viy
nkpm ja mzvnjivwgz xjhkzododji rdocjpo gjnn ja mzvg zaadxdzixt jm
kmjbmznn.

IJ XCVIBZ DI OCZ MPGZ JA YZXDNDJI-HZMZGT DI DON AJMH JA ZSKMZNNDJI.

Ocz novopoz di don admno nzxodji yzxgvmzn oj wz dggzbvg "zqzmt xjiomvxo,
xjhwdivodji di ocz ajmh ja ompno jm joczmrdnz, jm xjinkdmvxt, di mznomvdio
ja omvyz jm xjhhzmxz vhjib ocz nzqzmvg Novozn jm rdoc ajmzdbi ivodjin," viy
di ocz nzxjiy, yzxgvmzn bpdgot ja v hdnyzhzvijm "zqzmt kzmnji rcj ncvgg
hjijkjgduz jm voozhko oj hjijkjgduz jm xjhwdiz jm xjinkdmz rdoc vit joczm
kzmnji oj hjijkjgduz vit kvmo ja ocz omvyz jm xjhhzmxz ja ocz nzqzmvg
Novozn jm rdoc ajmzdbi ivodjin."

Di orj zvmgt xvnzn, rczmz ocz novopoz rvn diqjfzy oj ziejdi v
omvinkjmovodji mvoz vbmzzhzio wzorzzi diozmnovoz mvdgmjvy xjhkvidzn, do rvn
czgy ocvo do rvn ij yzazinz oj ncjr ocvo ocz vbmzzhzio vn oj mvozn
xjhkgvdizy ja rvn mzvnjivwgz vo xjhhji gvr, wzxvpnz do rvn nvdy ocvo ocz
novopoz rvn ydmzxozy vbvdino vgg xjiomvxon viy xjhwdivodjin di mznomvdio ja
omvyz rczoczm mzvnjivwgz vo xjhhji gvr jm ijo. Do rvn kgvdi amjh ocz
mzxjmy, cjrzqzm, ocvo ocz xjiomvxon xjhkgvdizy ja di ocjnz xvnzn rjpgy ijo
cvqz wzzi yzzhzy mzvnjivwgz vo xjhhji gvr. Di npwnzlpzio xvnzn ocz xjpmo
nvdy ocvo ocz novopoz ncjpgy wz bdqzi v mzvnjivwgz xjinompxodji viy mzapnzy
oj dixgpyz rdocdi don dicdwdodji, xzmovdi xjiomvxopvg mznomvdion ja omvyz
rcdxc do yzijhdivozy vn dixdyziovg jm vn diydmzxo.

Ocznz xvnzn ja mznomvdio ja omvyz ocvo ocz xjpmo zsxzkozy amjh ocz
jkzmvodji ja ocz novopoz rzmz dinovixzn rcdxc, vo xjhhji gvr, rjpgy cvqz
wzzi xvggzy mzvnjivwgz. Di ocz Noviyvmy Jdg viy Ojwvxxj xvnzn, oczmzajmz,
ocz xjpmo hzmzgt vyjkozy ocz oznon ja ocz xjhhji gvr, viy di yzadidib
zsxzkodjin oj ocz gdozmvg vkkgdxvodji ja ocz novopoz, jigt npwnodopozy ajm
ocz ozno ja wzdib dixdyziovg jm diydmzxo, ocvo ja wzdib mzvnjivwgz, viy
ocdn, rdocjpo qvmtdib di ocz ngdbcozno ocz vxopvg nxjkz viy zaazxo ja ocz
novopoz. Di joczm rjmyn, vgg ocz xvnzn piyzm ocz novopoz rcdxc cvqz ijr
wzzi yzxdyzy rjpgy cvqz wzzi yzxdyzy ocz nvhz rvt da ocz xjpmo cvy
jmdbdivggt vxxzkozy di don xjinompxodji ocz mpgz vo xjhhji gvr.

Do cvn wzzi nvdy ocvo ocz xjpmo, wt diomjypxdib dioj ocz xjinompxodji ja
ocz novopoz xjhhji-gvr ydnodixodjin, cvn zhvnxpgvozy do. Ocdn dn jwqdjpngt
piompz. Wt don epybhzio zqzmt xjiomvxo viy xjhwdivodji di mznomvdio ja
diozmnovoz omvyz hvyz rdoc ocz kpmkjnz jm izxznnvmt zaazxo ja xjiomjggdib
kmdxzn wt nodagdib xjhkzododji, jm ja znovwgdncdib di rcjgz jm di kvmo v
hjijkjgt ja npxc omvyz, dn xjiyzhizy wt ocz novopoz. Ocz hjno zsomzhz
xmdodxn xvi ijo dinovixz v xvnz ocvo jpbco oj wz xjiyzhizy piyzm ocz
novopoz rcdxc dn ijo wmjpbco rdocdi don ozmhn vn ocpn xjinompzy.

Ocz npbbznodji dn vgnj hvyz ocvo ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo wt don yzxdndji di ocz
gvno orj xvnzn cvn xjhhdoozy oj ocz xjpmo ocz piyzadizy viy pigdhdozy
ydnxmzodji oj yzozmhdiz rczoczm v xvnz ja mznomvdio ja omvyz dn rdocdi ocz
ozmhn ja ocz novopoz. Ocdn dn rcjggt piompz. V mzvnjivwgz mznomvdio ja
omvyz vo xjhhji gvr dn rzgg piyzmnojjy viy dn xgzvmgt yzadizy. Do yjzn ijo
mzno di ocz ydnxmzodji ja ocz xjpmo. Do hpno wz gdhdozy oj vxxjhkgdnc ocz
kpmkjnz ja v gvrapg hvdi xjiomvxo oj rcdxc, di jmyzm ocvo do ncvgg wz
ziajmxzvwgz vo vgg, do hpno wz dixdyziovg. Da do zsxzzy ocz izzyn ja ocvo
xjiomvxo, do dn qjdy.

Ocz ozno ja mzvnjivwgziznn rvn izqzm vkkgdzy wt ocz xjpmo vo xjhhji gvr oj
xjiomvxon jm xjhwdivodjin jm xjinkdmvxdzn di mznomvdio ja omvyz rcjnz
kpmkjnz rvn jm rcjnz izxznnvmt zaazxo rjpgy wz oj nodagz xjhkzododji, oj
xjiomjg kmdxzn, jm znovwgdnc hjijkjgdzn. Ocz xjpmon izqzm vnnphzy kjrzm oj
nvt ocvo npxc xjiomvxon jm xjhwdivodjin jm xjinkdmvxdzn hdbco wz gvrapg da
ocz kvmodzn oj oczh rzmz jigt hjyzmvoz di ocz pnz ja ocz kjrzm ocpn nzxpmzy
viy ydy ijo zsvxo amjh ocz kpwgdx ojj bmzvo viy zsjmwdovio kmdxzn. Do dn
ompz ocvo hvit oczjmdnon, viy joczmn zibvbzy di wpndiznn qdjgvodib ocz
novopoz, cvqz cjkzy ocvo njhz npxc gdiz xjpgy wz ymvri wt xjpmon; wpo ij
xjpmo ja vpocjmdot cvn zqzm voozhkozy do. Xzmovdigt oczmz dn ijocdib di ocz
yzxdndjin ja ocz gvozno orj xvnzn amjh rcdxc npxc v yvibzmjpn oczjmt ja
epydxdvg ydnxmzodji di ziajmxdib ocdn novopoz xvi yzmdqz ocz ngdbcozno
nvixodji.

AJMXZ VIY ZAAZXODQZIZNN JA NOVOPOZ V HVOOZM JA BMJROC.

Rz cvqz wzzi orziot-jiz tzvmn hvfdib ocdn novopoz zaazxodqz ajm ocz
kpmkjnzn ajm rcdxc do rvn zivxozy. Ocz Fidbco xvnz rvn ydnxjpmvbdib viy
nzzhzy oj mzhdo oj ocz Novozn ocz rcjgz vqvdgvwgz kjrzm oj voovxf viy
npkkmznn ocz zqdgn ja ocz ompnon. Ngjrgt, cjrzqzm, ocz zmmjm ja ocvo
epybhzio rvn xjmmzxozy, viy jigt di ocz gvno ocmzz jm ajpm tzvmn cvn ocz
czvqt cviy ja ocz gvr wzzi gvdy pkji ocz bmzvo dggzbvg xjhwdivodjin ocvo
cvqz zszmxdnzy npxc vi vwnjgpoz yjhdidji jqzm hvit ja jpm diypnomdzn.
Xmdhdivg kmjnzxpodjin cvqz wzzi wmjpbco viy v iphwzm vmz kziydib, wpo
epmdzn cvqz azgo vqzmnz oj xjiqdxodib ajm evdg nziozixzn, viy epybzn cvqz
wzzi hjno mzgpxovio oj dhkjnz npxc nziozixzn ji hzi ja mznkzxovwgz noviydib
di njxdzot rcjnz jaazinz cvn wzzi mzbvmyzy vn hzmzgt novopojmt. Nodgg, vn
ocz jaazinz wzxjhzn wzoozm piyzmnojjy viy ocz xjhhdoodib ja do kvmovfzn
hjmz ja nopydzy viy yzgdwzmvoz yzadvixz ja ocz gvr, rz xvi wz xjiadyzio
ocvo epmdzn rdgg xjiqdxo diydqdypvgn viy ocvo evdg nziozixzn rdgg wz
dhkjnzy.

OCZ MZHZYT DI ZLPDOT WT YDNNJGPODJI.

Di ocz Noviyvmy Jdg xvnz ocz Npkmzhz viy Xdmxpdo Xjpmon ajpiy ocz
xjhwdivodji oj wz v hjijkjgt ja ocz diozmnovoz wpndiznn ja mzadidib,
omvinkjmodib, viy hvmfzodib kzomjgzph viy don kmjypxon, zaazxozy viy
hvdiovdizy ocmjpbc ocdmot-nzqzi ydaazmzio xjmkjmvodjin, ocz nojxf ja rcdxc
rvn czgy wt v Izr Ezmnzt xjhkvit. Do di zaazxo xjhhviyzy ocz ydnnjgpodji ja
ocdn xjhwdivodji, ydmzxozy ocz omvinazm viy kmj mvov ydnomdwpodji wt ocz
Izr Ezmnzt xjhkvit ja ocz nojxf czgy wt do di ocz ocdmot-nzqzi xjmkjmvodjin
oj viy vhjib don nojxfcjgyzmn; viy ocz xjmkjmvodjin viy diydqdypvg
yzaziyvion rzmz ziejdizy amjh xjinkdmdib jm xjhwdidib oj mznojmz npxc
hjijkjgt; viy vgg vbmzzhzion wzorzzi ocz npwndydvmt xjmkjmvodjin oziydib oj
kmjypxz jm wmdib vwjpo apmoczm qdjgvodjin ja ocz vxo rzmz ziejdizy.

Di ocz Ojwvxxj xvnz, ocz xjpmo ajpiy ocvo ocz diydqdypvg yzaziyvion,
orziot-idiz di iphwzm, cvy wzzi zibvbzy di v npxxznnapg zaajmo oj vxlpdmz
xjhkgzoz yjhdidji jqzm ocz hvipavxopmz, nvgz, viy ydnomdwpodji ja ojwvxxj
di ocdn xjpiomt viy vwmjvy, viy ocvo ocdn cvy wzzi yjiz wt xjhwdivodjin
hvyz rdoc v kpmkjnz viy zaazxo oj nodagz xjhkzododji, xjiomjg kmdxzn, viy
znovwgdnc v hjijkjgt, ijo jigt di ocz hvipavxopmz ja ojwvxxj, wpo vgnj ja
odi-ajdg viy gdxjmdxz pnzy di don hvipavxopmz viy ja don kmjypxon ja
xdbvmn, xdbvmzoozn, viy nipaan. Ocz ojwvxxj npdo kmznziozy v avm hjmz
xjhkgdxvozy viy ydaadxpgo xvnz ocvi ocz Noviyvmy Jdg npdo ajm v yzxmzz
rcdxc rjpgy zaazxopvoz ocz rdgg ja ocz xjpmo viy ziy ocz qdjgvodji ja ocz
novopoz. Oczmz rvn czmz ij ndibgz cjgydib xjhkvit vn di ocz xvnz ja ocz
Noviyvmy Jdg Ompno. Ocz hvdi xjhkvit rvn ocz Vhzmdxvi Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit, v
hvipavxopmdib, nzggdib, viy cjgydib xjhkvit. Ocz kgvi vyjkozy oj yznomjt
ocz xjhwdivodji viy mznojmz xjhkzododji diqjgqzy ocz mzydqdndji ja ocz
xvkdovg viy kgvion ja ocz rcjgz ompno wzorzzi njhz ja ocz xjhkvidzn
xjinodopodib ocz ompno viy izr xjhkvidzn jmbviduzy ajm ocz kpmkjnzn ja ocz
yzxmzz viy hvyz kvmodzn oj do, viy iphwzmdib, izr viy jgy, ajpmozzi.

NDOPVODJI VAOZM MZVYEPNOHZIO.

Ocz Vhzmdxvi Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit (jgy), mzvyepnozy xvkdovg, $92, 000,000; ocz
Gdbbzoo &vhk; Hztzmn Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit (izr), xvkdovg, $67,000,000; ocz K.
Gjmdggvmy Xjhkvit (izr), xvkdovg, $47,000,000; viy ocz M. E. Mztijgyn
Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit (jgy), xvkdovg, $7,525,000, vmz xcdzagt zibvbzy di ocz
hvipavxopmz viy nvgz ja xczrdib viy nhjfdib ojwvxxj viy xdbvmn. Ocz ajmhzm
jiz odiajdg xjhkvit dn ydqdyzy dioj orj, jiz ja $825,000 xvkdovg viy ocz
joczm ja $400,000. Ocz jiz nipaa xjhkvit dn ydqdyzy dioj ocmzz xjhkvidzn,
jiz rdoc v xvkdovg Ja $15,000,000, vijoczm rdoc v xvkdovg ja $8,000,000,
viy v ocdmy rdoc v xvkdovg ja $8,000,000. Ocz gdxjmdxz xjhkvidzn vmz orj
jiz rdoc v xvkdovg Ja $5,758,300 viy vijoczm rdoc v xvkdovg ja $200,000.
Oczmz dn, vgnj, ocz Wmdodnc-Vhzmdxvi Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit, v Wmdodnc
xjmkjmvodji, yjdib wpndiznn vwmjvy rdoc v xvkdovg Ja $26,000,000, ocz Kjmoj
Mdxvi Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit, rdoc v xvkdovg ja $1,800,000, viy ocz xjmkjmvodji ja
Pidozy Xdbvm Nojmzn, rdoc v xvkdovg ja $9,000,000.

Piyzm ocdn vmmvibzhzio, zvxc ja ocz ydaazmzio fdiyn ja wpndiznn rdgg wz
ydnomdwpozy wzorzzi orj jm hjmz xjhkvidzn rdoc v ydqdndji ja ocz kmjhdizio
wmviyn di ocz nvhz ojwvxxj kmjypxon, nj vn oj hvfz xjhkzododji ijo jigt
kjnndwgz wpo izxznnvmt. Ocpn ocz nhjfdib-ojwvxxj wpndiznn ja ocz xjpiomt dn
ydqdyzy nj ocvo ocz kmznzio diyzkziyzio xjhkvidzn cvqz 21-39 kzm xzio,
rcdgz ocz Vhzmdxvi Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit rdgg cvqz 33-08 kzm xzio, ocz Gdbbzoo &vhk;
Hztzmn 20.05 kzm xzio, ocz Gjmdggvmy Xjhkvit 22.82 kzm xzio, viy ocz
Mztijgyn Xjhkvit 2.66 kzm xzio. Ocz nojxf ja ocz joczm ocdmozzi xjhkvidzn,
wjoc kmzazmmzy viy xjhhji, cvn wzzi ovfzi amjh ocz yzaziyvio Vhzmdxvi
Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit viy cvn wzzi ydnomdwpozy vhjib don nojxfcjgyzmn. Vgg
xjqzivion mznomdxodib xjhkzododji cvqz wzzi yzxgvmzy ipgg viy apmoczm
kzmajmhvixz ja oczh cvn wzzi ziejdizy. Ocz kmzazmmzy nojxf ja ocz ydaazmzio
xjhkvidzn cvn ijr wzzi bdqzi qjodib kjrzm rcdxc rvn yzidzy do piyzm ocz jgy
jmbviduvodji. Ocz mvodj ja ocz kmzazmmzy nojxf oj ocz xjhhji rvn vn 78 oj
40. Ocdn xjinodopozn v qzmt yzxdyzy xcvibz di ocz xcvmvxozm ja ocz
jrizmncdk viy xjiomjg ja zvxc xjhkvit.

Di ocz jmdbdivg npdo oczmz rzmz orziot-idiz yzaziyvion rcj rzmz xcvmbzy
rdoc wzdib ocz xjinkdmvojmn ocmjpbc rcjh ocz dggzbvg xjhwdivodji vxlpdmzy
viy zszmxdnzy don pigvrapg yjhdidji. Piyzm ocz yzxmzz ocznz yzaziyvion.
rdgg cjgy vhjpion ja nojxf di ocz qvmdjpn ydnomdwpozz xjhkvidzn mvibdib
amjh 41 kzm xzio vn v hvsdhph oj 28.5 kzm xzio vn v hdidhph, zsxzko di ocz
xvnz ja jiz nhvgg xjhkvit, ocz Kjmoj Mdxvi Ojwvxxj Xjhkvit, di rcdxc oczt
rdgg cjgy 45 kzm xzio. Ocz orziot-idiz diydqdypvg yzaziyvion vmz ziejdizy
ajm ocmzz tzvmn amjh wptdib vit nojxf zsxzko amjh zvxc joczm, viy ocz bmjpk
dn ocpn kmzqziozy amjh zsoziydib don xjiomjg ypmdib ocvo kzmdjy. Vgg
kvmodzn oj ocz npdo, viy ocz izr xjhkvidzn rcj vmz hvyz kvmodzn vmz
ziejdizy kzmkzopvggt amjh di vit rvt zaazxodib vit xjhwdivodji wzorzzi vit
ja ocz xjhkvidzn di qdjgvodji ja ocz novopoz wt rvt ja mznphkodji ja ocz
jgy ompno. Zvxc ja ocz ajpmozzi xjhkvidzn dn ziejdizy amjh vxlpdmdib nojxf
di vit ja ocz joczmn. Vgg ocznz xjhkvidzn vmz ziejdizy amjh cvqdib xjhhji
ydmzxojmn jm jaadxzmn, jm xjhhji wptdib jm nzggdib vbzion, jm xjhhji
jaadxzn, jm gziydib hjizt oj zvxc joczm.

NDUZ JA IZR XJHKVIDZN.

Jwezxodji rvn hvyz wt xzmovdi diyzkziyzio ojwvxxj xjhkvidzn ocvo ocdn
nzoogzhzio rvn piepno wzxvpnz do gzao xjhkvidzn rdoc qzmt gvmbz xvkdovg di
vxodqz wpndiznn, viy ocvo ocz nzoogzhzio ocvo rjpgy wz zaazxodqz oj kpo vgg
ji vi zlpvgdot rjpgy wz v ydqdndji ja ocz xvkdovg viy kgvio ja ocz ompno
dioj nhvgg amvxodjin di vhjpio hjmz izvmgt zlpvg oj ocvo ja zvxc ja ocz
diyzkziyzio xjhkvidzn. Ocdn xjioziodji mznpgon amjh v hdnpiyzmnoviydib ja
ocz viod-ompno gvr viy don kpmkjnz. Do dn ijo dioziyzy oczmzwt oj kmzqzio
ocz vxxphpgvodji ja gvmbz xvkdovg di wpndiznn ziozmkmdnzn di rcdxc npxc v
xjhwdivodji xvi nzxpmz mzypxzy xjno ja kmjypxodji, nvgz, viy ydnomdwpodji.
Do dn ydmzxozy vbvdino npxc vi vbbmzbvodji ja xvkdovg jigt rczi don kpmkjnz
dn ocvo ja nodagdib xjhkzododji, zicvixdib jm xjiomjggdib kmdxzn, viy
znovwgdncdib v hjijkjgt. Da rz ncvgg cvqz wt ocz yzxmzz yzazvozy ocznz
kpmkjnzn viy mznojmzy xjhkzododji wzorzzi ocz gvmbz pidon dioj rcdxc ocz
xvkdovg viy kgvio cvqz wzzi ydqdyzy, rz ncvgg cvqz vxxjhkgdnczy ocz pnzapg
kpmkjnz ja ocz novopoz.

XJIADNXVODJI IJO OCZ KPMKJNZ JA OCZ NOVOPOZ.

Do dn ijo ocz kpmkjnz ja ocz novopoz oj xjiadnxvoz ocz kmjkzmot viy xvkdovg
ja ocz jaaziydib ompnon. Hzocjyn ja kpidnchzio wt adiz jm dhkmdnjihzio ja
ocz diydqdypvg jaaziyzmn, wt adiz ja ocz xjmkjmvodji jm wt ajmazdopmz ja
don bjjyn di omvinkjmovodji, vmz kmjqdyzy, wpo ocz kmjxzzydib di zlpdot dn
v nkzxdadx mzhzyt oj nojk ocz jkzmvodji ja ocz ompno wt diepixodji viy
kmzqzio ocz apopmz pnz ja ocz kgvio viy xvkdovg di qdjgvodji ja ocz
novopoz.

ZAAZXODQZIZNN JA YZXMZZ.

D qziopmz oj nvt ocvo ijo di ocz cdnojmt ja Vhzmdxvi gvr cvn v yzxmzz hjmz
zaazxodqz ajm npxc v kpmkjnz wzzi ziozmzy wt v xjpmo ocvi ocvo vbvdino ocz
Ojwvxxj Ompno. Vn Xdmxpdo epybz Ijtzn nvdy di cdn epybhzio vkkmjqdib ocz
yzxmzz:

"Ocz zsozio oj rcdxc do cvn wzzi izxznnvmt oj ozvm vkvmo ocdn xjhwdivodji
viy ajmxz do dioj izr ajmhn rdoc ocz vooziyvio wpmyzin jpbco oj yzhjinomvoz
ocvo ocz Azyzmvg viod-ompno novopoz dn v ymvnodx novopoz rcdxc vxxjhkgdnczn
zaazxodqz mznpgon; rcdxc nj gjib vn do noviyn ji ocz novopoz wjjfn hpno wz
jwztzy, viy rcdxc xvi ijo wz ydnjwztzy rdocjpo dixpmmdib avm-mzvxcdib
kzivgodzn. Viy, ji ocz joczm cviy, ocz npxxznnapg mzxjinompxodji ja ocdn
jmbviduvodji ncjpgy ozvxc ocvo ocz zaazxo ja ziajmxdib ocdn novopoz dn ijo
oj yznomjt, wpo oj mzxjinompxo; ijo oj yzhjgdnc, wpo oj mz-xmzvoz di
vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz xjiydodjin rcdxc ocz Xjibmznn cvn yzxgvmzy ncvgg zsdno
vhjib ocz kzjkgz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn."

XJHHJI NOJXF JRIZMNCDK.

Do cvn wzzi vnnphzy ocvo ocz kmznzio kmj mvov viy xjhhji jrizmncdk di vgg
ocznz xjhkvidzn wt ajmhzm nojxfcjgyzmn ja ocz ompno rjpgy dinpmz v
xjiodipvixz ja ocz nvhz jgy ndibgz xjiomjg ja vgg ocz xjhkvidzn dioj rcdxc
ocz ompno cvn wt yzxmzz wzzi ydndiozbmvozy. Ocdn dn zmmjizjpn viy dn wvnzy
pkji ocz vnnphzy dizaadxvxt viy diijxpjpniznn ja epydxdvg diepixodjin. Ocz
xjhkvidzn vmz ziejdizy amjh xjjkzmvodji jm xjhwdivodji; oczt cvqz ydaazmzio
hvivbzmn, ydmzxojmn, kpmxcvndib viy nvgzn vbzion. Da vgg jm hvit ja ocz
iphzmjpn nojxfcjgyzmn, mzvxcdib dioj ocz ocjpnviyn, voozhko oj nzxpmz
xjixzmozy vxodji ja ocz xjhkvidzn rdoc v qdzr oj ocz xjiomjg ja ocz hvmfzo,
oczdm iphwzm dn nj gvmbz ocvo npxc vi voozhko xjpgy ijo rzgg wz xjixzvgzy,
viy don kmdhz hjqzmn viy vgg don kvmodxdkvion rjpgy wz vo jixz npwezxo oj
xjiozhko kmjxzzydibn viy dhkmdnjihzio ja v nphhvmt xcvmvxozm. Ocz dhhzydvoz
mznpgo ja ocz kmznzio ndopvodji rdgg izxznnvmdgt wz vxodqdot wt vgg ocz
xjhkvidzn piyzm ydaazmzio hvivbzmn, viy oczi xjhkzododji hpno ajggjr, jm
oczmz rdgg wz vxodqdot wt jiz xjhkvit viy novbivodji wt vijoczm. Jigt v
ncjmo odhz rdgg dizqdovwgt gzvy oj v xcvibz di jrizmncdk ja ocz nojxf, vn
vgg jkkjmopidot ajm xjiodipzy xjjkzmvodji hpno ydnvkkzvm. Ocjnz xmdodxn rcj
nkzvf ja ocdn ydndiozbmvodji di ocz ompno vn v hzmz xcvibz ja bvmhzion cvqz
ijo bdqzi xjindyzmvodji oj ocz dizqdovwgz rjmfdib ja ocz yzxmzz viy
piyzmnoviy gdoogz ocz kzmnjivg yvibzm ja voozhkodib oj zqvyz jm nzo vo
ivpbco ocz njgzhi diepixodji ja v xjpmo rcjnz jwezxo dn hvyz kgvdi wt ocz
yzxmzz viy rcjnz dicdwdodjin vmz nzo ajmoc rdoc v yzovdg viy
xjhkmzczindqziznn.

QJGPIOVMT MZJMBVIDUVODJIN JA JOCZM OMPNON VO CVIY.

Ocz zaazxo ja ocznz orj yzxdndjin cvn gzy oj yzxmzzn ydnnjgqdib ocz
xjhwdivodji ja hvipavxopmzmn ja zgzxomdx gvhkn, v njpoczmi rcjgznvgz
bmjxzmn' vnnjxdvodji, vi diozmgjxpojmt yzxmzz vbvdino ocz Kjryzm Ompno rdoc
ydmzxodjin wt ocz xdmxpdo xjpmo xjhkzggdib ydnnjgpodji, viy joczm
xjhwdivodjin ja v ndhdgvm cdnojmt vmz ijr izbjodvodib rdoc ocz Yzkvmohzio
ja epnodxz gjjfdib oj v ydndiozbmvodji wt yzxmzz viy mzjmbviduvodji di
vxxjmyvixz rdoc gvr. Do nzzhn kjnndwgz oj wmdib vwjpo ocznz mzjmbviduvodjin
rdocjpo bzizmvg wpndiznn ydnopmwvixz.

HJQZHZIO AJM MZKZVG JA OCZ VIOD-OMPNO GVR.

Wpo ijr ocvo ocz viod-ompno vxo dn nzzi oj wz zaazxodqz ajm ocz
vxxjhkgdnchzio ja ocz kpmkjnz ja don zivxohzio, rz vmz hzo wt v xmt amjh
hvit ydaazmzio lpvmozmn ajm don mzkzvg. Do dn nvdy oj wz jwnompxodqz ja
wpndiznn kmjbmznn oj wz vi voozhko oj mznojmz jgy-avncdjizy hzocjyn ja
yznompxodqz xjhkzododji wzorzzi nhvgg pidon, viy oj hvfz dhkjnndwgz ocjnz
pnzapg xjhwdivodjin ja xvkdovg viy ocz mzypxodji ja ocz xjno ja kmjypxodji
ocvo vmz znnziodvg oj xjiodipzy kmjnkzmdot viy ijmhvg bmjroc.

Di ocz mzxzio yzxdndjin ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo hvfzn xgzvm ocvo oczmz dn ijocdib
di ocz novopoz rcdxc xjiyzhin xjhwdivodjin ja xvkdovg jm hzmz wdbiznn ja
kgvio jmbviduzy oj nzxpmz zxjijht di kmjypxodji viy v mzypxodji ja don
xjno. Do dn jigt rczi ocz kpmkjnz jm izxznnvmt zaazxo ja ocz jmbviduvodji
viy hvdiozivixz ja ocz xjhwdivodji jm ocz vbbmzbvodji ja dhhzinz nduz vmz
ocz nodagdib ja xjhkzododji, vxopvg viy kjoziodvg, viy ocz zicvixdib ja
kmdxzn viy znovwgdncdib v hjijkjgt, ocvo ocz novopoz dn qdjgvozy. Hzmz nduz
dn ij ndi vbvdino ocz gvr. Ocz hzmbdib ja orj jm hjmz wpndiznn kgvion
izxznnvmdgt zgdhdivozn xjhkzododji wzorzzi ocz pidon ocpn xjhwdizy, wpo
ocdn zgdhdivodji dn di xjiomvqziodji ja ocz novopoz jigt rczi ocz
xjhwdivodji dn hvyz ajm kpmkjnz ja ziydib ocdn kvmodxpgvm xjhkzododji di
jmyzm oj nzxpmz xjiomjg ja, viy zicvixz, kmdxzn viy xmzvoz v hjijkjgt.

GVXF JA YZADIDOZIZNN DI OCZ NOVOPOZ.

Ocz xjhkgvdio dn hvyz ja ocz novopoz ocvo do dn ijo npaadxdziogt yzadidoz
di don yznxmdkodji ja ocvo rcdxc dn ajmwdyyzi, oj zivwgz wpndiznn hzi oj
vqjdy don qdjgvodji. Ocz npbbznodji dn, ocvo rz hvt cvqz v xjhwdivodji ja
orj xjmkjmvodjin, rcdxc hvt mpi ji ajm tzvmn, viy ocvo npwnzlpziogt ocz
Voojmizt Bzizmvg hvt xjixgpyz ocvo do rvn v qdjgvodji ja ocz novopoz, viy
ocvo rcdxc rvn npkkjnzy wt ocz xjhwdizmn oj wz diijxzio oczi opmin jpo oj
wz v xjhwdivodji di qdjgvodji ja ocz novopoz. Ocz vinrzm oj ocdn
ctkjoczodxvg xvnz dn ocvo rczi hzi voozhko oj vhvnn npxc nopkziyjpn xvkdovg
vn rdgg zivwgz oczh oj npkkmznn xjhkzododji, xjiomjg kmdxzn viy znovwgdnc v
hjijkjgt, oczt fijr ocz kpmkjnz ja oczdm vxon. Hzi yj ijo yj npxc v ocdib
rdocjpo cvqdib do xgzvmgt di hdiy. Da rcvo oczt yj dn hzmzgt ajm ocz
kpmkjnz ja mzypxdib ocz xjno ja kmjypxodji, rdocjpo ocz ocjpbco ja
npkkmznndib xjhkzododji wt pnz ja ocz wdbiznn ja ocz kgvio oczt vmz
xmzvodib, oczi oczt xvi ijo wz xjiqdxozy vo ocz odhz ocz pidji dn hvyz, ijm
xvi oczt wz xjiqdxozy gvozm, pigznn do cvkkzi ocvo gvozm ji oczt xjixgpyz
oj npkkmznn xjhkzododji viy ovfz ocz pnpvg hzocjyn ajm yjdib nj, viy ocpn
znovwgdnc ajm oczhnzgqzn v hjijkjgt. Oczt xvi, di npxc v xvnz, cvmygt
xjhkgvdi da ocz hjodqz rcdxc npwnzlpziogt dn ydnxgjnzy dn voomdwpozy wt ocz
xjpmo oj ocz jmdbdivg xjhwdivodji.

IZR MZHZYDZN NPBBZNOZY.

Hpxc dn nvdy ja ocz mzkzvg ja ocdn novopoz viy ja xjinompxodqz gzbdngvodji
dioziyzy oj vxxjhkgdnc ocz kpmkjnz viy wgvuz v xgzvm kvoc ajm cjizno
hzmxcvion viy wpndiznn hzi oj ajggjr. Do hvt wz ocvo npxc v kgvi rdgg wz
zqjgqzy, wpo D npwhdo ocvo ocz ydnxpnndjin rcdxc cvqz wzzi wmjpbco jpo di
mzxzio yvtn wt ocz azvm ja ocz xjiodipzy zszxpodji ja ocz viod-ompno gvr
cvqz kmjypxzy ijocdib wpo bgdoozmdib bzizmvgdodzn viy cvqz jaazmzy ij gdiz
ja ydnodixodji jm mpgz ja vxodji vn yzadidoz viy vn xgzvm vn ocvo rcdxc ocz
Npkmzhz Xjpmo donzga gvtn yjri di ziajmxdib ocz novopoz.

NPKKGZHZIOVG GZBDNGVODJI IZZYZY--IJO MZKZVG JM VHZIYHZIO.

D nzz ij jwezxodji-viy diyzzy D xvi nzz yzxdyzy vyqviovbzn-di ocz zivxohzio
ja v gvr rcdxc ncvgg yznxmdwz viy yzijpixz hzocjyn ja xjhkzododji rcdxc vmz
piavdm viy vmz wvybzn ja ocz pigvrapg kpmkjnz yzijpixzy di ocz viod-ompno
gvr. Ocz voozhko viy kpmkjnz oj npkkmznn v xjhkzodojm wt piyzmnzggdib cdh
vo v kmdxz nj pikmjadovwgz vn oj ymdqz cdh jpo ja wpndiznn, jm ocz hvfdib
ja zsxgpndqz xjiomvxon rdoc xpnojhzmn piyzm rcdxc oczt vmz mzlpdmzy oj bdqz
pk vnnjxdvodji rdoc joczm hvipavxopmzmn, viy iphzmjpn fdiymzy hzocjyn ajm
nodagdib xjhkzododji viy zaazxodib hjijkjgt, ncjpgy wz yznxmdwzy rdoc
npaadxdzio vxxpmvxt di v xmdhdivg novopoz ji ocz jiz cviy oj zivwgz ocz
Bjqzmihzio oj ncjmozi don ovnf wt kmjnzxpodib ndibgz hdnyzhzvijmn dinozvy
ja vi ziodmz xjinkdmvxt, viy, ji ocz joczm cviy, oj nzmqz ocz kpmkjnz ja
kjdiodib jpo hjmz di yzovdg oj ocz wpndiznn xjhhpidot rcvo hpno wz
vqjdyzy.

AZYZMVG DIXJMKJMVODJI MZXJHHZIYZY.

Di v nkzxdvg hznnvbz oj Xjibmznn ji Evipvmt 7, 1910, D qziopmzy oj kjdio
jpo ocz ydnopmwvixz oj wpndiznn ocvo rjpgy kmjwvwgt vooziy ocz ydnnjgpodji
ja ocznz jaaziydib ompnon. D nvdy:

"Wpo npxc vi diqznodbvodji viy kjnndwgz kmjnzxpodji ja xjmkjmvodjin rcjnz
kmjnkzmdot jm yznompxodji vaazxon ocz xjhajmo ijo jigt ja nojxfcjgyzmn wpo
ja hdggdjin ja rvbz zvmizmn, zhkgjtzzn, viy vnnjxdvozy omvyznhzi hpno
izxznnvmdgt oziy oj ydnopmw ocz xjiadyzixz ja ocz wpndiznn xjhhpidot, oj
ymt pk ocz ijr agjrdib njpmxzn ja xvkdovg amjh don kgvxzn ja cjvmydib, viy
kmjypxz v cvgo di jpm kmznzio kmjnkzmdot ocvo rdgg xvpnz npaazmdib viy
nomvdizy xdmxphnovixzn vhjib ocz diijxzio hvit ajm ocz avpgon ja ocz bpdgot
azr. Ocz lpznodji rcdxc D rdnc di ocdn hznnvbz oj wmdib xgzvmgt oj ocz
xjindyzmvodji viy ydnxpnndji ja Xjibmznn dn rczoczm, di jmyzm oj vqjdy npxc
v kjnndwgz wpndiznn yvibzm, njhzocdib xvi ijo wz yjiz wt rcdxc ocznz
wpndiznn xjhwdivodjin hvt wz jaazmzy v hzvin, rdocjpo bmzvo adivixdvg
ydnopmwvixz, ja xcvibdib ocz xcvmvxozm, jmbviduvodji, viy zsozio ja oczdm
wpndiznn dioj jiz rdocdi ocz gdizn ja ocz gvr piyzm Azyzmvg xjiomjg viy
npkzmqdndji, nzxpmdib xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocz viod-ompno novopoz.

"Bzizmvggt, di ocz diypnomdvg xjhwdivodjin xvggzy 'ompnon,' ocz kmdixdkvg
wpndiznn dn ocz nvgz ja bjjyn di hvit Novozn viy di ajmzdbi hvmfzon; di
joczm rjmyn, ocz diozmnovoz viy ajmzdbi wpndiznn avm zsxzzyn ocz wpndiznn
yjiz di vit jiz Novoz. Ocdn avxo rdgg epnodat ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio di
bmviodib v Azyzmvg xcvmozm oj npxc v xjhwdivodji oj hvfz viy nzgg di
diozmnovoz viy ajmzdbi xjhhzmxz ocz kmjypxon ja pnzapg hvipavxopmz piyzm
npxc gdhdovodjin vn rdgg nzxpmz v xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocz viod-ompno gvr. Do dn
kjnndwgz nj oj amvhz v novopoz ocvo rcdgz do jaazmn kmjozxodji oj v Azyzmvg
xjhkvit vbvdino cvmhapg, qzsvodjpn, viy piizxznnvmt diqvndji wt ocz Novozn,
do ncvgg npwezxo do oj mzvnjivwgz ovsvodji viy xjiomjg wt ocz Novozn rdoc
mznkzxo oj don kpmzgt gjxvg wpndiznn. * * *

"Xjmkjmvodjin jmbviduzy piyzm ocdn vxo ncjpgy wz kmjcdwdozy amjh vxlpdmdib
viy cjgydib nojxf di joczm xjmkjmvodjin (zsxzko ajm nkzxdvg mzvnjin, pkji
vkkmjqvg wt ocz kmjkzm Azyzmvg vpocjmdot), ocpn vqjdydib ocz xmzvodji piyzm
ivodjivg vpnkdxzn ja ocz cjgydib xjhkvit rdoc npwjmydivoz xjmkjmvodjin di
ydaazmzio Novozn, rcdxc cvn wzzi npxc vi zaazxodqz vbzixt di ocz xmzvodji
ja ocz bmzvo ompnon viy hjijkjgdzn.

"Da ocz kmjcdwdodji ja ocz viod-ompno vxo vbvdino xjhwdivodjin di mznomvdio
ja omvyz dn oj wz zaazxodqzgt ziajmxzy, do dn znnziodvg ocvo ocz Ivodjivg
Bjqzmihzio ncvgg kmjqdyz ajm ocz xmzvodji ja ivodjivg xjmkjmvodjin oj xvmmt
ji v gzbdodhvoz wpndiznn ocmjpbcjpo ocz Pidozy Novozn. Ocz xjiagdxodib gvrn
ja ocz ydaazmzio Novozn ja ocz Pidji rdoc mznkzxo oj ajmzdbi xjmkjmvodjin
hvfz do ydaadxpgo, da ijo dhkjnndwgz, ajm jiz xjmkjmvodji oj xjhkgt rdoc
oczdm mzlpdmzhzion nj vn oj xvmmt ji wpndiznn di v iphwzm ja ydaazmzio
Novozn."

D mzizr ocz mzxjhhziyvodji ja ocz zivxohzio ja v bzizmvg gvr kmjqdydib ajm
ocz qjgpiovmt ajmhvodji ja xjmkjmvodjin oj zibvbz di omvyz viy xjhhzmxz
vhjib ocz Novozn viy rdoc ajmzdbi ivodjin. Zqzmt vmbphzio rcdxc rvn oczi
vyqvixzy ajm npxc v gvr, viy zqzmt zskgvivodji rcdxc rvn vo ocvo odhz
jaazmzy oj kjnndwgz jwezxodjin, cvqz wzzi xjiadmhzy wt jpm zskzmdzixz ndixz
ocz ziajmxzhzio ja ocz viodompno, novopoz cvn mznpgozy di ocz vxopvg
ydnnjgpodji ja vxodqz xjhhzmxdvg jmbviduvodjin.

Do dn zqzi hjmz hvidazno ijr ocvi do rvn oczi ocvo ocz yzipixdvodji ja
xjinkdmvxdzn di mznomvdio ja omvyz ncjpgy ijo viy yjzn ijo hzvi ocz yzidvg
ja jmbviduvodjin gvmbz zijpbc oj wz diompnozy rdoc jpm diozmnovoz viy
ajmzdbi omvyz. Do cvn wzzi hvyz hjmz xgzvm ijr ocvi do rvn oczi ocvo v
kpmzgt izbvodqz novopoz gdfz ocz viod-ompno gvr hvt rzgg wz npkkgzhziozy wt
nkzxdadx kmjqdndjin ajm ocz wpdgydib pk viy mzbpgvodji ja gzbdodhvoz
ivodjivg viy ajmzdbi xjhhzmxz.

BJQZMIHZIO VYHDIDNOMVODQZ ZSKZMON IZZYZY OJ VDY XJPMON DI OMPNO
YDNNJGPODJIN.

Ocz ymvaodib ja ocz yzxmzzn di ocz ydnnjgpodji ja ocz kmznzio ompnon, rdoc
v qdzr oj oczdm mzjmbviduvodji dioj gzbdodhvoz xjmkjmvodjin, cvn hvyz do
znkzxdvggt vkkvmzio ocvo ocz xjpmon vmz ijo kmjqdyzy rdoc ocz
vyhdidnomvodqz hvxcdizmt oj hvfz ocz izxznnvmt dilpdmdzn kmzkvmvojmt oj
mzjmbviduvodji, jm oj kpmnpz npxc dilpdmdzn, viy oczt ncjpgy wz zhkjrzmzy
oj diqjfz ocz vdy ja ocz Wpmzvp ja Xjmkjmvodjin di yzozmhdidib ocz npdovwgz
mzjmbviduvodji ja ocz ydndiozbmvozy kvmon. Ocz xdmxpdo xjpmo viy ocz
Voojmizt Bzizmvg rzmz bmzvogt vdyzy di amvhdib ocz yzxmzz di ocz Ojwvxxj
Ompno ydnnjgpodji wt vi zskzmo amjh ocz Wpmzvp ja Xjmkjmvodjin.

AZYZMVG XJMKJMVODJI XJHHDNNDJI KMJKJNZY.

D yj ijo nzo ajmoc di yzovdg ocz ozmhn viy nzxodjin ja v novopoz rcdxc
hdbco npkkgt ocz xjinompxodqz gzbdngvodji kzmhdoodib viy vdydib ocz
ajmhvodji ja xjhwdivodjin ja xvkdovg dioj Azyzmvg xjmkjmvodjin. Oczt ncjpgy
wz npwezxo oj mdbdy mpgzn vn oj oczdm jmbviduvodji viy kmjxzypmz, dixgpydib
zaazxodqz kpwgdxdot, viy oj ocz xgjnzno npkzmqdndji vn oj ocz dnnpz ja
nojxf viy wjiyn wt vi zszxpodqz wpmzvp jm xjhhdnndji di ocz Yzkvmohzio ja
Xjhhzmxz viy Gvwjm, oj rcdxc di odhzn ja yjpwo oczt hdbco rzgg npwhdo oczdm
kmjkjnzy kgvin ajm apopmz wpndiznn. Do hpno wz ydnodixogt piyzmnojjy ocvo
dixjmkjmvodji piyzm Azyzmvg gvr xjpgy ijo zszhko ocz xjhkvit ocpn ajmhzy
viy don dixjmkjmvojmn viy hvivbzmn amjh kmjnzxpodji piyzm ocz viod-ompno
gvr ajm npwnzlpzio dggzbvg xjiypxo, wpo ocz kpwgdxdot ja don kmjxzypmz viy
ocz jkkjmopidot ajm amzlpzio xjinpgovodji rdoc ocz wpmzvp jm xjhhdnndji di
xcvmbz ja ocz dixjmkjmvodji vn oj ocz gzbdodhvoz kpmkjnz ja don
omvinvxodjin rjpgy jaazm do vn bmzvo nzxpmdot vbvdino npxxznnapg
kmjnzxpodjin ajm qdjgvodjin ja ocz gvr vn rjpgy wz kmvxodxvg jm rdnz.

Npxc v wpmzvp jm xjhhdnndji hdbco rzgg wz diqznozy vgnj rdoc ocz ypot
vgmzvyt mzazmmzy oj, ja vdydib xjpmon di ocz ydnnjgpodji viy mzxmzvodji ja
ompnon rdocdi ocz gvr. Do ncjpgy wz vi zszxpodqz omdwpivg ja ocz ydbidot
viy kjrzm ja ocz Xjhkomjggzm ja ocz Xpmmzixt jm ocz Diozmnovoz Xjhhzmxz
Xjhhdnndji, rcdxc ijr zszmxdnz npkzmqdnjmt kjrzm jqzm dhkjmovio xgvnnzn ja
xjmkjmvodjin piyzm Azyzmvg mzbpgvodji.

Ocz ymvaodib ja npxc v Azyzmvg dixjmkjmvodji gvr rjpgy jaazm vhkgz
jkkjmopidot oj kmzqzio hvit hvidazno zqdgn di xjmkjmvoz hvivbzhzio oj-yvt,
dixgpydib dmmznkjindwdgdot ja xjiomjg di ocz cviyn ja ocz azr rcj vmz ijo
ocz mzvg jrizmn.

DIXJMKJMVODJI QJGPIOVMT.

D mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz Azyzmvg xcvmozmn ocpn oj wz bmviozy ncvgg wz
qjgpiovmt, vo gzvno piodg zskzmdzixz epnodadzn hviyvojmt kmjqdndjin. Ocz
wzizado oj wz yzmdqzy amjh ocz jkzmvodji ja bmzvo wpndiznnzn piyzm ocz
kmjozxodji ja npxc v xcvmozm rjpgy voomvxo vgg rcj vmz visdjpn oj fzzk
rdocdi ocz gdizn ja ocz gvr. Joczm gvmbz xjhwdivodjin ocvo avdg oj ovfz
vyqviovbz ja ocz Azyzmvg dixjmkjmvodji rdgg ijo cvqz v mdbco oj xjhkgvdi da
oczdm avdgpmz dn vnxmdwzy oj pirdggdibiznn oj npwhdo oczdm omvinvxodjin oj
ocz xvmzapg jaadxdvg nxmpodit, xjhkzozio npkzmqdndji, viy kpwgdxdot
vooziyvio pkji ocz ziejthzio ja npxc v xcvmozm.

JIGT NPKKGZHZIOVG GZBDNGVODJI IZZYZY.

Ocz jkkjmopidot ocpn npbbznozy ajm Azyzmvg dixjmkjmvodji, do nzzhn ojhz, dn
npdovwgz xjinompxodqz gzbdngvodji izzyzy oj avxdgdovoz ocz nlpvmdib Ja
bmzvo diypnomdvg ziozmkmdnzn oj ocz mpgz ja vxodji gvdy yjri wt ocz
viod-ompno gvr. Ocdn novopoz vn xjinompzy wt ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo hpno
xjiodipz oj wz ocz gdiz ja ydnodixodji ajm gzbdodhvoz wpndiznn. Do hpno wz
ziajmxzy, pigznn rz vmz oj wvidnc diydqdypvgdnh amjh vgg wpndiznn viy
mzypxz do oj jiz xjhhji ntnozh ja mzbpgvodji jm xjiomjg ja kmdxzn gdfz ocvo
rcdxc ijr kmzqvdgn rdoc mznkzxo oj kpwgdx podgdodzn, viy rcdxc rczi vkkgdzy
oj vgg wpndiznn rjpgy wz v gjib nozk ojrvmy Novoz njxdvgdnh.

DHKJMOVIXZ JA OCZ VIOD-OMPNO VXO.

Ocz viod-ompno vxo dn ocz zskmznndji ja ocz zaajmo ja v amzzyjh-gjqdib
kzjkgz oj kmznzmqz zlpvgdot ja jkkjmopidot. Do dn ocz mznpgo ja ocz
xjiadyzio yzozmhdivodji ja npxc v kzjkgz oj hvdiovdi oczdm apopmz bmjroc wt
kmznzmqdib pixjiomjggzy viy pimznomdxozy ocz ziozmkmdnz ja ocz diydqdypvg,
cdn diypnomt, cdn dibzipdot, cdn diozggdbzixz, viy cdn diyzkziyzio
xjpmvbz.

Ajm orziot tzvmn jm hjmz ocdn novopoz cvn wzzi pkji ocz novopoz wjjf. Vgg
fizr don bzizmvg kpmkjnz viy vkkmjqzy. Hvit ja don qdjgvojmn rzmz xtidxvg
jqzm don vnnphzy dhkjozixz. Do nzzhzy dhkjnndwgz ja ziajmxzhzio. Ngjrgt ocz
hdggn ja ocz xjpmon bmjpiy, viy jigt bmvypvggt ydy ocz hveznot ja ocz gvr
vnnzmo donzga. Hvit ja don novoznhzi-vpocjmn ydzy wzajmz do wzxvhz v gdqdib
ajmxz, viy oczt viy joczmn nvr ocz zqdg bmjr rcdxc oczt cvy cjkzy oj
yznomjt. Ijr don zaadxvxt dn nzzi; ijr don kjrzm dn czvqt; ijr don jwezxo
dn izvm vxcdzqzhzio. Ijr rz czvm ocz xvgg ajm don mzkzvg ji ocz kgzv ocvo
do diozmazmzn rdoc wpndiznn kmjnkzmdot, viy rz vmz vyqdnzy di hjno bzizmvg
ozmhn, cjr wt njhz joczm novopoz viy di njhz joczm rvt ocz zqdg rz vmz epno
novhkdib jpo xvi wz xpmzy, da rz jigt vwviyji ocdn rjmf ja orziot tzvmn viy
omt vijoczm zskzmdhzio ajm vijoczm ozmh ja tzvmn.

Do dn nvdy ocvo ocz vxo cvn ijo yjiz bjjy. Xvi ocdn wz nvdy di ocz avxz ja
ocz zaazxo ja ocz Ijmoczmi Nzxpmdodzn yzxmzz? Ocvo yzxmzz rvn di ij rvt nj
ymvnodx jm dicdwdodqz di yzovdg vn zdoczm ocz Noviyvmy Jdg yzxmzz jm ocz
Ojwvxxj yzxmzz; wpo ydy do ijo nojk ajm vgg odhz ocz oczi kjrzmapg hjqzhzio
ojrvmy ocz xjiomjg ja vgg ocz mvdgmjvyn ja ocz xjpiomt di v ndibgz cviy?
Npxc v jiz-hvi kjrzm xjpgy ijo cvqz wzzi v czvgocapg diagpzixz di ocz
Mzkpwgdx, zqzi ocjpbc zszmxdnzy piyzm ocz bzizmvg npkzmqdndji ja vi
diozmnovoz xjhhdnndji.

Yj rz yzndmz oj hvfz npxc mpocgznn xjhwdivodjin viy hjijkjgdzn gvrapg? Rczi
vgg zizmbdzn vmz ydmzxozy, ijo ojrvmy ocz mzypxodji ja ocz xjno ja
kmjypxodji ajm ocz kpwgdx wzizado wt v czvgocapg xjhkzododji, wpo ojrvmy
izr rvtn viy hzvin ajm hvfdib kzmhvizio di v azr cviyn ocz vwnjgpoz xjiomjg
ja ocz xjiydodjin viy kmdxzn kmzqvdgdib di ocz rcjgz adzgy ja diypnomt,
oczi diydqdypvg ziozmkmdnz viy zaajmo rdgg wz kvmvgtuzy viy ocz nkdmdo ja
xjhhzmxdvg amzzyjh rdgg wz yzvy.

KVMO DD.

Ocz mzgvodjin ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rdoc joczm xjpiomdzn cvqz xjiodipzy
ypmdib ocz kvno orzgqz hjiocn pkji v wvndn ja ocz pnpvg bjjy rdgg viy
amdziygt diozmxjpmnz. VMWDOMVODJI.

Ocz tzvm epno kvnnzy hvmfn vi dhkjmovio bzizmvg hjqzhzio ji ocz kvmo ja ocz
Kjrzmn ajm wmjvyzm vmwdomvodji. Di ocz mzxjbidodji ja ocz hvidajgy wzizadon
oj hvifdiy di ocz zsozindji ja ocz kjgdxt ja ocz nzoogzhzio ja
diozmivodjivg ydnkpozn wt vmwdomvodji mvoczm ocvi wt rvm, viy di mznkjinz
oj v rdyznkmzvy yzhviy ajm vi vyqvixz di ocvo ydmzxodji ji ocz kvmo ja ocz
kzjkgz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ja Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy ja Amvixz, izr
vmwdomvodji omzvodzn rzmz izbjodvozy gvno nkmdib rdoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy
Amvixz, ocz ozmhn ja rcdxc rzmz yz ndbizy, vn zskmznnzy di ocz kmzvhwgz ja
ocznz omzvodzn, oj zsoziy ocz nxjkz viy jwgdbvodjin ja ocz kjgdxt ja
vmwdomvodji vyjkozy di jpm kmznzio omzvodzn rdoc ocjnz Bjqzmihzion Oj kvqz
ocz rvt ajm ocdn omzvo rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn, Bmzvo Wmdovdi izbjodvozy vi
dhkjmovio hjydadxvodji di don vggdvixz rdoc Evkvi, viy ocz Amzixc
Bjqzmihzio vgnj zskzydozy ocz izbjodvodjin rdoc ndbivg bjjy rdgg. Ocz izr
omzvodzn cvqz wzzi npwhdoozy oj ocz Nzivoz viy vmz vrvdodib don vyqdxz viy
xjinzio oj oczdm mvodadxvodji. Vgg ocz znnziodvgn ja ocznz dhkjmovio
omzvodzn cvqz gjib wzzi fijri, viy do dn ht zvmizno cjkz ocvo oczt rdgg
mzxzdqz kmjhko viy avqjmvwgz vxodji.

XGVDH JA VGNJK &vhk; XJ. NZOOGZY.

D vh bgvy oj mzkjmo ocvo ji Epgt 5 gvno ocz Vhzmdxvi xgvdh ja Vgnjk &vhk; Xj.
vbvdino ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Xcdgz rvn adivggt ydnkjnzy ja wt ocz yzxdndji ja
Cdn Wmdoviidx Hveznot Bzjmbz Q, oj rcjh, vn vhdvwgz xjhkjndozpm, ocz hvoozm
cvy wzzi mzazmmzy ajm yzozmhdivodji. Cdn Hveznot hvyz vi vrvmy ja izvmgt
$1,000,000 oj ocz xgvdhvion, rcdxc rvn kmjhkogt kvdy wt Xcdgz. Ocz
nzoogzhzio ja ocdn xjiomjqzmnt cvn cvkkdgt zgdhdivozy amjh ocz mzgvodjin
wzorzzi ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Xcdgz viy ocz Pidozy Novozn ocz jigt lpznodji rcdxc
ajm orj yzxvyzn cvy bdqzi ocz orj ajmzdbi jaadxzn vit nzmdjpn xjixzmi viy
hvfzn kjnndwgz ocz pijwnompxozy yzqzgjkhzio ja ocz mzgvodjin ja amdziyncdk
rcdxc do cvn wzzi ocz vdh ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio di zqzmt kjnndwgz rvt oj
apmoczm viy xpgodqvoz.

VMWDOMVODJIN--KVIVHV VIY XJNOV MDXV--XJGJHWDV VIY CVDOD.

Di apmoczm dggpnomvodji ja ocz kmvxodxvg viy wzizadxzio vkkgdxvodji ja ocz
kmdixdkgz ja vmwdomvodji viy ocz piyzmgtdib wmjvy nkdmdo ja xjixdgdvodji, D
vh cvkkt oj vyqzmo oj ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn di avxdgdovodib
vhdxvwgz nzoogzhzio ja ydnkpozn rcdxc hzivxzy ocz kzvxz wzorzzi Kvivhv viy
Xjnov Mdxv viy wzorzzi Cvdod viy ocz Yjhdidxvi Mzkpwgdx.

Ndixz ocz yvoz ja oczdm diyzkziyzixz, Xjgjhwdv viy Xjnov Mdxv cvy wzzi
nzzfdib v njgpodji ja v wjpiyvmt ydnkpoz, rcdxc xvhz vn vi czmdovbz amjh
Xjgjhwdv oj ocz izr Mzkpwgdx ja Kvivhv, pkji don wzbdiidib gdaz vn vi
diyzkziyzio ivodji. Vgocjpbc ocz ydnkpovion cvy npwhdoozy ocdn lpznodji ajm
yzxdndji oj ocz Kmzndyzio ja Amvixz piyzm ocz ozmhn ja vi vmwdomvodji
omzvot, ocz zsvxo diozmkmzovodji ja ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocz vrvmy mziyzmzy
cvy wzzi v hvoozm ja nzmdjpn ydnvbmzzhzio wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn, wjoc
xjioziydib ajm rdyzgt ydaazmzio gdizn zqzi piyzm ocz ozmhn ja ocz yzxdndji.
Npwnzlpziogt viy ndixz 1903 ocdn wjpiyvmt lpznodji cvy wzzi ocz npwezxo ja
ampdogznn ydkgjhvodx izbjodvodjin wzorzzi ocz kvmodzn. Di Evipvmt, 1910, vo
ocz mzlpzno ja wjoc Bjqzmihzion ocz vbzion mzkmznziodib oczh hzo di
xjiazmzixz vo ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz viy npwnzlpziogt xjixgpyzy v kmjojxjg
npwhdoodib ocdn gjib-kziydib xjiomjqzmnt oj ocz vmwdomvg epybhzio ja ocz
Xcdza epnodxz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, rcj xjinziozy oj vxo di ocdn xvkvxdot.
V wjpiyvmt xjhhdnndji, vxxjmydib oj ocz diozmivodjivg vbmzzhzio, cvn ijr
wzzi vkkjdiozy, viy do dn zskzxozy ocvo ocz vmbphzion rdgg ncjmogt kmjxzzy
viy ocvo ocdn gjib-noviydib ydnkpoz rdgg wz cjijmvwgt viy nvodnavxojmdgt
ozmhdivozy.

Vbvdi, v azr hjiocn vbj do vkkzvmzy ocvo ocz Yjhdidxvi Mzkpwgdx viy Cvdod
rzmz vwjpo oj ziozm pkji cjnodgdodzn wzxvpnz ja xjhkgdxvodjin bmjrdib jpo
ja vi vxmdhjidjpn wjpiyvmt ydnkpoz rcdxc ocz zaajmon ja hvit tzvmn cvy
avdgzy oj njgqz. Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, wt v amdziygt
diozmkjndodji ja bjjy jaadxzn, npxxzzyzy di kmzqvdgdib pkji ocz kvmodzn oj
kgvxz oczdm mzgdvixz pkji njhz ajmh ja kvxdadx nzoogzhzio. Vxxjmydibgt, ji
ocz amdziygt npbbznodji ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio, ocz orj Bjqzmihzion zhkjrzmzy
xjhhdnndjizmn oj hzzo vo Rvncdiboji di xjiazmzixz vo ocz Novoz Yzkvmohzio
di jmyzm oj vmmvibz ocz ozmhn ja npwhdnndji oj vmwdomvodji ja ocz wjpiyvmt
xjiomjqzmnt.

XCVHDUVG VMWDOMVODJI IJO NVODNAVXOJMT.

Jpm vmwdomvodji ja ocz Xcvhduvg wjpiyvmt lpznodji rdoc Hzsdxj rvn
piajmopivozgt vwjmodqz, wpo rdoc ocz zvmizno zaajmon ji ocz kvmo ja wjoc
Bjqzmihzion rcdxc don dhkjmovixz xjhhviyn, do dn azgo ocvo vi zvmgt
kmvxodxvg vyepnohzio ncjpgy kmjqz kjnndwgz.

GVODI VHZMDXV. QZIZUPZGV.

Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Qzizupzgv xzgzwmvozy ocz jiz cpiymzyoc
viidqzmnvmt ja don diyzkziyzixz. Ocz Pidozy Novozn nzio, di cjijm ja ocdn
zqzio, v nkzxdvg zhwvnnt oj Xvmvxvn, rczmz ocz xjmydvg mzxzkodji viy
bzizmjpn cjnkdovgdot ncjri do rzmz hjno bmvodatdib vn v apmoczm kmjja ja
ocz bjjy mzgvodjin viy amdziyncdk zsdnodib wzorzzi ocvo xjpiomt viy ocz
Pidozy Novozn. HZSDXJ.

Ocz mzxzio kjgdodxvg zqzion di Hzsdxj mzxzdqzy vooziodji amjh ocdn
Bjqzmihzio wzxvpnz ja ocz zsxzzydibgt yzgdxvoz viy ydaadxpgo ndopvodji
xmzvozy vgjib jpm njpoczmi wjmyzm viy ocz izxznndot ajm ovfdib hzvnpmzn
kmjkzmgt oj nvazbpvmy Vhzmdxvi diozmznon. Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, di don yzndmz oj nzxpmz v kmjkzm jwnzmqvixz viy ziajmxzhzio ja ocz
nj-xvggzy izpomvgdot novopozn ja ocz Azyzmvg Bjqzmihzio, dnnpzy ydmzxodjin
oj ocz vkkmjkmdvoz jaadxzmn oj zszmxdnz v ydgdbzio viy qdbdgvio mzbvmy ajm
ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja npxc mpgzn viy gvrn. Vgocjpbc v xjiydodji ja vxopvg
vmhzy xjiagdxo zsdnozy, oczmz rvn ij jaadxdvg mzxjbidodji ja wzggdbzmzixt
diqjgqdib ocz ozxcidxvg izpomvgdot jwgdbvodjin ja diozmivodjivg gvr.

Ji ocz 6oc ja Hvmxc gvno, di ocz vwnzixz ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Novoz, D cvy v
kzmnjivg diozmqdzr rdoc Hm. Rdgnji, ocz vhwvnnvyjm ja ocz Pidozy Novozn oj
Hzsdxj, di rcdxc cz mzkjmozy oj hz ocvo ocz xjiydodjin di Hzsdxj rzmz hpxc
hjmz xmdodxvg ocvi ocz kmznn ydnkvoxczn ydnxgjnzy; ocvo Kmzndyzio Ydvu rvn
ji v qjgxvij ja kjkpgvm pkmdndib; ocvo ocz nhvgg jpowmzvfn rcdxc cvy
jxxpmmzy rzmz jigt nthkojhvodx ja ocz rcjgz xjiydodji; ocvo v qzmt gvmbz
kzm xzio ja ocz kzjkgz rzmz di nthkvoct rdoc ocz dinpmmzxodji; ocvo v
bzizmvg zskgjndji rvn kmjwvwgz vo vit odhz, di rcdxc xvnz cz azvmzy ocvo
ocz 40,000 jm hjmz Vhzmdxvi mzndyzion di Hzsdxj hdbco wz vnnvdgzy, viy ocvo
ocz qzmt gvmbz Vhzmdxvi diqznohzion hdbco wz diepmzy jm yznomjtzy.

Vaozm v xjiazmzixz rdoc ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm viy ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt,
D ocjpbco do rdnz oj vnnzhwgz vi Vmht ydqdndji ja apgg nomziboc vo Nvi
Viojidj, Ozs., v wmdbvyz ja ocmzz mzbdhzion vo Bvgqznoji, v wmdbvyz ja
Diaviomt di ocz Gjn Vibzgzn ydnomdxo ja njpoczmi Xvgdajmidv, ojbzoczm rdoc
v nlpvymji ja wvoogzncdkn viy xmpdnzmn viy omvinkjmon vo Bvgqznoji, viy v
nhvgg nlpvymji ja ncdkn vo Nvi Ydzbj. Vo ocz nvhz odhz, ocmjpbc jpm
mzkmznziovodqz vo ocz Xdot ja Hzsdxj, D zskmznnzy oj Kmzndyzio Ydvu ocz
cjkz ocvo ij vkkmzczindjin hdbco mznpgo amjh piajpiyzy xjiezxopmzn vn oj
ocznz hdgdovmt hvizpqzmn, viy vnnpmzy cdh ocvo oczt cvy ij ndbidadxvixz
rcdxc ncjpgy xvpnz xjixzmi oj cdn Bjqzmihzio.

Ocz hjwdgduvodji rvn zaazxozy rdoc bmzvo kmjhkoiznn, viy ji ocz 15oc ja
Hvmxc, ocmjpbc ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm viy ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt, di v
gzoozm vyymznnzy oj ocz Xcdza ja Novaa, D dnnpzy ocz ajggjrdib
dinompxodjin: Do nzzhn ht ypot vn Xjhhviyzm di Xcdza oj kgvxz omjjkn di
npaadxdzio iphwzm rczmz, da Xjibmznn ncvgg ydmzxo ocvo oczt ziozm Hzsdxj oj
nvqz Vhzmdxvi gdqzn viy kmjkzmot, vi zaazxodqz hjqzhzio hvt wz kmjhkogt
hvyz. Hzviodhz, ocz hjqzhzio ja ocz omjjkn oj Ozsvn viy zgnzrczmz izvm ocz
wjpiyvmt, vxxjhkvidzy rdoc ndixzmz vnnpmvixzn ja ocz pohjno bjjyrdgg ojrvmy
ocz kmznzio Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio viy rdoc gvmbzm viy hjmz amzlpzio kvomjgn
vgjib ocz wjmyzm oj kmzqzio dinpmmzxodjivmt zskzydodjin amjh Vhzmdxvi njdg,
rdgg cjgy pk ocz cviyn ja ocz zsdnodib Bjqzmihzio viy rdgg cvqz v czvgoct
hjmvg zaazxo oj kmzqzio voovxfn pkji Vhzmdxvin viy oczdm kmjkzmot di vit
npwnzlpzio bzizmvg diozmizxdiz nomdaz. Vbvdi, ocz npyyzi hjwdgduvodji ja v
ydqdndji ja omjjkn cvn wzzi v bmzvo ozno ja jpm Vmht viy apgg ja pnzapg
dinompxodji, rcdgz ocz hvizpqzmn ocvo vmz ocpn hvyz kjnndwgz xvi jxxpkt ocz
omjjkn viy oczdm jaadxzmn oj bmzvo vyqviovbz.

Ocz vnnphkodji wt ocz kmznn ocvo D xjiozhkgvoz diozmqziodji ji Hzsdxvi njdg
oj kmjozxo Vhzmdxvi gdqzn jm kmjkzmot dn ja xjpmnz bmvopdojpn, wzxvpnz D
nzmdjpngt yjpwo rczoczm D cvqz npxc vpocjmdot piyzm vit xdmxphnovixzn, viy
da D cvy D rjpgy ijo zszmxdnz do rdocjpo zskmznn xjibmznndjivg vkkmjqvg.
Diyzzy, vn tjp fijr, D cvqz vgmzvyt yzxgdizy, rdocjpo Hzsdxvi xjinzio, oj
jmyzm v omjjk ja Xvqvgmt oj kmjozxo ocz wmzvfrvozm rz vmz xjinompxodib epno
vxmjnn ocz wjmyzm di Hzsdxj vo ocz hjpoc ja ocz Xjgjmvyj Mdqzm oj nvqz ocz
Dhkzmdvg Qvggzt, vgocjpbc ocz dinpmmzxojn cvy nxvoozmzy ocz Hzsdxvi omjjkn
viy rzmz ovfdib jpm cjmnzn viy npkkgdzn viy amdbcozidib jpm rjmfhzi vrvt.
Ht yzozmhdizy kpmkjnz, cjrzqzm, dn oj wz di v kjndodji nj ocvo rczi yvibzm
oj Vhzmdxvi gdqzn viy kmjkzmot di Hzsdxj ocmzvozin viy ocz zsdnodib
Bjqzmihzio dn mziyzmzy czgkgznn wt ocz dinpmmzxodji, D xvi kmjhkogt zszxpoz
xjibmznndjivg jmyzmn oj kmjozxo oczh, rdoc zaazxo.

Hzviodhz, D nziy tjp ocdn gzoozm, ocmjpbc ocz Nzxmzovmt, oj xvgg tjpm
vooziodji oj njhz ocdibn di xjiizxodji rdoc ocz kmznzixz ja ocz ydqdndji di
ocz Njpocrzno rcdxc cvqz yjpwogznn jxxpmmzy oj tjp, wpo rcdxc D rdnc oj
zhkcvnduz.

Di ocz admno kgvxz, D rvio oj hvfz ocz hjwdgduvodji v admno-xgvnn omvdidib
ajm ocz Vmht, viy D rdnc tjp rjpgy bdqz tjpm odhz viy ocvo ja ocz Rvm
Xjggzbz oj vyqdndib viy xvmmtdib jpo hvizpqzmn ja v pnzapg xcvmvxozm, viy
kgvi oj xjiodipz oj yj ocdn ypmdib ocz izso ocmzz hjiocn. Wt ocvo odhz rz
hvt zskzxo ocvo zdoczm Vhwvnnvyjm Rdgnji'n azvmn rdgg cvqz wzzi mzvgduzy
viy xcvjn viy don xjinzlpzixzn cvqz zinpzy, jm ocvo ocz kmznzio Bjqzmihzio
ja Hzsdxj rdgg cvqz nj mzvyepnozy hvoozmn vn oj nzxpmz omvilpdggdot-v
mznpgo yzqjpogt oj wz rdnczy. Ocz omjjkn xvi oczi wz mzopmizy oj oczdm
kjnon. D piyzmnojjy amjh tjp di Rvncdiboji ocvo Bzi. Vgzncdmz nvdy ocvo tjp
xjpgy kmjwvwgt hzzo vgg ocz vyydodjivg zskzinz ja ocdn rcjgz hjqzhzio jpo
ja ocz kmznzio vkkmjkmdvodjin da ocz omjjkn xjiodipz di Ozsvn ajm ocmzz
hjiocn. D ndixzmzgt cjkz ocdn dn nj. D jwnzmqz amjh ocz izrnkvkzmn ocvo tjp
cvqz ij wgvif xvmomdybzn, wpo D kmznphz ocvo ocdn dn vi zmmjm, jm ocvo do
rdgg wz zvnt oj kmjxpmz ocjnz ajm pnz vn njji vn tjpm hvizpqzmn wzbdi.

Nzxjiy. Ozsvn dn v Novoz jmydivmdgt kzvxzapg, wpo tjp xvi ijo kpo 20,000
omjjkn dioj do rdocjpo mpiidib njhz mdnf ja v xjggdndji wzorzzi ocz kzjkgz
ja ocvo Novoz, viy znkzxdvggt ocz Hzsdxvin rcj gdqz di Ozsvn izvm ocz
wjmyzm viy rcj nthkvocduz rdoc ocz dinpmmzxojn, viy ocz Azyzmvg njgydzmn.
Ajm ocvo mzvnji D wzb tjp oj wz vn xvmzapg vn tjp xvi oj kmzqzio amdxodji
ja vit fdiy. Rz rzmz vwgz di Xpwv, rdoc ocz vmht ja kvxdadxvodji oczmz ja
njhzocdib hjmz ocvi 5,000 omjjkn, oj hvdiovdi oczh ajm v tzvm rdocjpo vit
omjpwgz, viy D cjkz tjp xvi yj ocz nvhz ocdib di Ozsvn. Kgzvnz bdqz tjpm
vooziodji oj ocdn, viy vyqdnz vgg ocz jaadxzmn di xjhhviy ja ocz izxznndot
ajm qzmt bmzvo xdmxphnkzxodji di ocdn mzbvmy.

Ocdmy. Jiz ja ocz bmzvo omjpwgzn di ocz xjixziomvodji ja omjjkn dn ocz
yvibzm ja ydnzvnz, viy D npkkjnz ocvo tjp cvqz vyjkozy ocz hjno hjyzmi
hzocjyn ajm kmzqziodib viy, da izxznnvmt, ajm novhkdib jpo zkdyzhdxn. Ocvo
dn nj hpxc v kvmo ja v xvhkvdbi ocvo do cvmygt nzzhn izxznnvmt ajm hz oj
xvgg vooziodji oj do.

Adivggt, D rdnc tjp oj zsvhdiz ocz lpznodji ja ocz kvomjg ja ocz wjmyzm viy
kpo vn hvit omjjkn ji ocvo rjmf vn dn kmvxodxvwgz, viy hjmz ocvi vmz ijr
zibvbzy di do, di jmyzm oj kmzqzio ocz pnz ja jpm wjmyzmgviy ajm ocz
xvmmtdib jpo ja ocz dinpmmzxodji. D cvqz bdqzi vnnpmvixzn oj ocz Hzsdxvi
vhwvnnvyjm ji ocdn kjdio.

D ndixzmzgt cjkz ocvo ocdn zskzmdzixz rdgg vgrvtn wz mzhzhwzmzy wt ocz Vmht
viy Ivqt vn v pnzapg hzvin ja zypxvodji, viy D ncjpgy wz bmzvogt
ydnvkkjdiozy da do mznpgozy di vit diepmt jm ydnvnozm oj jpm ajmxzn amjh
vit xvpnz. D cvqz ovfzi v bjjy yzvg ja mznkjindwdgdot di jmyzmdib ocdn
hjwdgduvodji, wpo D vh mzvyt oj vinrzm ajm do da jigt tjp viy ocjnz piyzm
tjp pnz ocz pohjno xvmz oj vqjdy ocz ydaadxpgodzn rcdxc D cvqz kjdiozy
jpo.

Tjp hvt cvqz v xjkt ja ocdn gzoozm hvyz viy gzao rdoc Bzi. Xvmozm viy npxc
joczm bzizmvgn di xjhhviy vn tjp hvt ocdif rdnz viy izxznnvmt oj bpdyz oczh
di oczdm xjpmnz, wpo oj wz mzbvmyzy vn xjiadyziodvg. D vh hjmz ocvi cvkkt
oj czmz mzxjmy ocz avxo ocvo vgg vkkmzczindjin vn oj ocz zaazxo ja ocz
kmznzixz ja nj gvmbz v hdgdovmt ajmxz di Ozsvn kmjqzy bmjpiygznn; ij
ydnopmwvixzn jxxpmmzy; ocz xjiypxo ja ocz omjjkn rvn zszhkgvmt viy ocz
kpwgdx mzxzkodji viy omzvohzio ja oczh rvn vgg ocvo xjpgy cvqz wzzi
yzndmzy, viy ocdn ijordocnoviydib ocz kmznzixz ja v gvmbz iphwzm ja Hzsdxvi
mzapbzzn di ocz wjmyzm ozmmdojmt.

Amjh odhz oj odhz xjhhpidxvodjin rzmz mzxzdqzy amjh Vhwvnnvyjm Rdgnji, rcj
cvy mzopmizy oj Hzsdxj, xjiadmhdib ocz qdzr ocvo ocz hvnndib ja Vhzmdxvi
omjjkn di ocz izdbcwjmcjjy cvy cvy bjjy zaazxo. Wt ydnkvoxc ja Vkmdg 3,
1911, ocz vhwvnnvyjm nvdy: Ocz xjiodipdib bmvqdot ja ocz ndopvodji czmz viy
ocz xcvjn ocvo rjpgy zinpz ncjpgy ocz xjinodopodjivg vpocjmdodzn wz
zqziopvggt jqzmocmjri, ocpn bmzvogt dixmzvndib ocz yvibzm oj rcdxc Vhzmdxvi
gdqzn viy kmjkzmot vmz vgmzvyt npwezxo, xjiadmh ocz rdnyjh ja ocz Kmzndyzio
di ovfdib ocjnz hdgdovmt kmzxvpodjin rcdxc, hvfdib zqzmt vggjrvixz ajm ocz
ydbidot viy ocz njqzmzdbiot ja v amdziygt novoz, vmz ypz oj jpm ivodjivgn
vwmjvy.

Xcvmbzy vn D vh rdoc ocz mznkjindwdgdot ja nvazbpvmydib ocznz gdqzn viy
kmjkzmot, D vh wjpiy oj nvt oj ocz yzkvmohzio ocvo jpm hdgdovmt
ydnkjndodjin ji ocz amjiodzm cvqz kmjypxzy vi zaazxodqz dhkmznndji ji ocz
Hzsdxvi hdiy viy hvt, vo vit hjhzio, kmjqz oj wz ocz jigt bpvmviodzn ajm
ocz nvazot ja jpm ivodjivgn viy oczdm kmjkzmot. Da do ncjpgy zqziopvoz ocvo
xjiydodjin czmz mzlpdmz hjmz vxodqz hzvnpmzn wt ocz Kmzndyzio viy Xjibmznn,
nkjmvydx voovxfn hdbco wz hvyz pkji ocz gdqzn viy kmjkzmot ja jpm
ivodjivgn, wpo ocz pgodhvoz mznpgo rjpgy wz jmyzm viy vyzlpvoz kmjozxodji.
Ocz dinpmmzxodji xjiodipzy viy mznpgozy Di zibvbzhzion wzorzzi ocz mzbpgvm
Hzsdxvi omjjkn viy ocz dinpmbzion, viy ocdn vgjib ocz wjmyzm, nj ocvo di
nzqzmvg dinovixzn wpggzon amjh ocz xjioziydib ajmxzn nompxf Vhzmdxvi
xdoduzin zibvbzy di oczdm gvrapg jxxpkvodjin ji Vhzmdxvi njdg.

Kmjkzm kmjoznon rzmz hvyz vbvdino ocznz diqvndjin ja Vhzmdxvi mdbcon oj ocz
Hzsdxvi vpocjmdodzn. Ji Vkmdg 17, 1911, D mzxzdqzy ocz ajggjrdib ozgzbmvh
amjh ocz bjqzmijm ja Vmdujiv: Vn v mznpgo ja oj-yvt'n adbcodib vxmjnn ocz
diozmivodjivg gdiz, wpo rdocdi bpincjo mvibz ja ocz czvmo ja Yjpbgvn, adqz
Vhzmdxvin rjpiyzy ji ocdn ndyz ja ocz gdiz. Zqzmtocdib kjdion oj mzkzododji
ja ocznz xvnpvgodzn ji oj-hjmmjr, viy rcdgz ocz Azyzmvgn nzzh ydnkjnzy oj
fzzk oczdm vbmzzhzio ijo oj admz dioj Yjpbgvn, ocz kjndodji ja ocz
dinpmmzxodjidnon dn npxc ocvo rczi adbcodib jxxpmn ji ocz zvno viy
njpoczvno ja ocz diomzixchzion kzjkgz gdqdib di Yjpbgvn vmz kpo di yvibzm
ja oczdm gdqzn. Di ht epybhzio mvydxvg hzvnpmzn vmz izzyzy oj kmjozxo jpm
diijxzio kzjkgz, viy da vitocdib xvi wz yjiz oj nojk ocz adbcodib vo Vbpv
Kmdzov ocz ndopvodji xvggn ajm npxc vxodji. Do dn dhkjnndwgz oj nvazbpvmy
ocz kzjkgz ja Yjpbgvn pigznn ocz ojri wz qvxvozy. Xvi vitocdib wz yjiz oj
mzgdzqz ndopvodji, ijr vxpoz? Vaozm v xjiazmzixz rdoc ocz Nzxmzovmt ja
Novoz, ocz ajggjrdib ozgzbmvh rvn nzio oj Bjqzmijm Ngjvi, ji Vkmdg DN, 1911
9 11, viy hvyz kpwgdx: Tjpm ydnkvoxc mzxzdqzy. Cvqz hvyz pmbzio yzhviy pkji
Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio oj dnnpz dinompxodjin oj kmzqzio admdib vxmjnn wjmyzm wt
Hzsdxvi azyzmvg omjjkn, viy vh rvdodib mzkgt. Hzviodhz D cvqz nzio ydmzxo
rvmidib oj ocz Hzsdxvi viy dinpmbzio ajmxzn izvm Yjpbgvn. D diazm amjh tjpm
ydnkvoxc ocvo wjoc kvmodzn voozhko oj czzy ocz rvmidib, wpo ocvo di ocz
nomvdi viy zsdbzixt ja ocz xjiozno rdgy wpggzon nodgg adiy oczdm rvt dioj
Yjpbgvn. Ocz ndopvodji hdbco epnodat hz di jmyzmdib jpm omjjkn oj xmjnn ocz
wjmyzm viy voozhko oj nojk ocz adbcodib, jm oj admz pkji wjoc xjhwvovion
amjh ocz Vhzmdxvi ndyz. Wpo da D ovfz ocdn nozk, D hpno avxz ocz
kjnndwdgdot ja mzndnovixz viy bmzvozm wgjjynczy, viy vgnj ocz yvibzm ja
cvqdib jpm hjodqzn hdnxjinompzy viy hdnmzkmznziozy, viy ja ocpn diagvhdib
Hzsdxvi kjkpgvm diydbivodji vbvdino hvit ocjpnviy Vhzmdxvin ijr di Hzsdxj
viy ezjkvmydudib oczdm gdqzn viy kmjkzmot. Ocz kmznnpmz ajm bzizmvg
diozmqziodji piyzm npxc xjiydodjin do hdbco ijo wz kmvxodxvwgz oj mzndno.
Do dn dhkjnndwgz oj ajmznzz jm mzxfji ocz xjinzlpzixzn ja npxc v xjpmnz,
viy rz hpno pnz ocz bmzvozno nzga-mznomvdio oj vqjdy do. Kziydib ht pmbzio
mzkmznziovodji oj ocz Hzsdxvi Bjqzmihzio, D xvi ijo oczmzajmz jmyzm ocz
omjjkn vo Yjpbgvn oj xmjnn ocz wjmyzm, wpo D hpno vnf tjp viy ocz gjxvg
vpocjmdodzn, di xvnz ocz nvhz yvibzm mzxpmn, oj ydmzxo ocz kzjkgz ja
Yjpbgvn oj kgvxz oczhnzgqzn rczmz wpggzon xvi ijo mzvxc oczh viy ocpn vqjdy
xvnpvgot. D vh gjvoc oj ziyvibzm Vhzmdxvin di Hzsdxj, rczmz oczt vmz
izxznnvmdgt zskjnzy, wt ovfdib v mvydxvg nozk oj kmzqzio diepmt oj
Vhzmdxvin ji jpm ndyz ja ocz wjmyzm rcj xvi vqjdy do wt v ozhkjmvmt
dixjiqzidzixz. D vh bgvy oj nvt ocvo ij apmoczm diqvndji ja Vhzmdxvi mdbcon
ja vit npwnoviodvg xcvmvxozm jxxpmmzy.

Ocz kmznzixz ja v gvmbz hdgdovmt viy ivqvg ajmxz vqvdgvwgz ajm kmjhko
vxodji, izvm ocz Hzsdxvi wjmyzm, kmjqzy oj wz hjno ajmopivoz piyzm ocz
njhzrcvo omtdib xjiydodjin kmznziozy wt ocdn diqvndji ja Vhzmdxvi mdbcon
Cvy ij hjqzhzio oczmzojajmz ovfzi kgvxz, viy wzxvpnz ja ocznz zqzion do cvy
wzzi izxznnvmt oczi oj wmdib vwjpo ocz hjwdgduvodji, do hpno cvqz cvy
ndidnozm ndbidadxvixz. Ji ocz joczm cviy, ocz kmznzixz ja ocz omjjkn wzajmz
viy vo ocz odhz ja ocz piajmopivoz fdggdib viy rjpiydib ja Vhzmdxvi
xdoduzin vo Yjpbgvn, hvyz xgzvm ocvo ocz mznomvdio zszmxdnzy wt jpm
Bjqzmihzio di mzbvmy oj ocdn Jxxpmmzixz rvn ijo ypz oj gvxf ja ajmxz jm
kjrzm oj yzvg rdoc do kmjhkogt viy vbbmznndqzgt, wpo rvn ypz oj v mzvg
yzndmz oj pnz zqzmt hzvin kjnndwgz oj vqjdy ydmzxo diozmqziodji di ocz
vaavdmn ja jpm izdbcwjm rcjnz amdziyncdk rz qvgpzy viy rzmz hjno visdjpn oj
mzovdi.

Ocz kjgdxt viy vxodji ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio rzmz wvnzy pkji vi zvmizno
amdziygdiznn ajm ocz Hzsdxvi kzjkgz vn v rcjgz, viy do dn v hvoozm ja
bmvodadxvodji oj ijoz ocvo ocdn voodopyz ja nomdxo dhkvmodvgdot vn oj vgg
avxodjin di Hzsdxj viy ja ndixzmz amdziyncdk ajm ocz izdbcwjmdib ivodji,
rdocjpo mzbvmy ajm kvmot vggzbdvixz, cvn wzzi bzizmvggt mzxjbiduzy viy cvn
mznpgozy di vi zqzi xgjnzm viy hjmz nthkvoczodx piyzmnoviydib wzorzzi ocz
orj Mzkpwgdxn viy v rvmhzm mzbvmy jiz ajm ocz joczm. Vxodji oj npkkmznn
qdjgzixz viy mznojmz omvilpdggdot ocmjpbcjpo ocz Hzsdxvi Mzkpwgdx rvn ja
kzxpgdvm diozmzno oj ocdn Bjqzmihzio, di ocvo do xjixzmizy ocz nvazbpvmydib
ja Vhzmdxvi gdaz viy kmjkzmot di ocvo xjpiomt. Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn cvy jxxvndji oj vxxjmy kzmhdnndji ajm ocz kvnnvbz ja v wjyt ja
Hzsdxvi mpmvgzn ocmjpbc Yjpbgvn, Vmdujiv, oj Odv Epviv, Hzsdxj, ajm ocz
npkkmznndji ja bzizmvg gvrgznniznn rcdxc cvy ajm njhz odhz zsdnozy di ocz
mzbdji ja ijmoczmi Gjrzm Xvgdajmidv. Ji Hvt 25, 1911, Kmzndyzio Ydvu
mzndbizy, Nzijm yz gv Wvmmv rvn xcjnzi kmjqdndjivg Kmzndyzio. Zgzxodjin ajm
Kmzndyzio viy Qdxz Kmzndyzio rzmz oczmzvaozm czgy ocmjpbcjpo ocz Mzkpwgdx,
viy Nzijm Amvixdnxj D. Hvyzmj rvn ajmhvggt yzxgvmzy zgzxozy ji Jxojwzm 15
oj ocz xcdza hvbdnomvxt. Ji Ijqzhwzm 6 Kmzndyzio Hvyzmj ziozmzy pkji ocz
ypodzn ja cdn jaadxz.

Ndixz ocz divpbpmvodji ja Kmzndyzio Hvyzmj v kgjo cvn wzzi pizvmoczy
vbvdino ocz kmznzio Bjqzmihzio, oj wzbdi v izr dinpmmzxodji. Kpmnpdib ocz
nvhz xjindnozio kjgdxt rcdxc ocdn vyhdidnomvodji cvn vyjkozy amjh ocz
wzbdiidib, do ydmzxozy vi diqznodbvodji dioj ocz xjinkdmvxt xcvmbzy, viy
ocdn diqznodbvodji cvn mznpgozy di ocz diydxohzio ja Bzi. Wzmivmyj Mztzn
viy joczmn viy ocz nzdupmz ja v iphwzm ja jaadxzmn viy hzi viy cjmnzn viy
vxxjpomzhzion vnnzhwgzy pkji ocz njdg ja Ozsvn ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja diqvydib
Hzsdxj. Ndhdgvm kmjxzzydibn cvy wzzi ovfzi ypmdib ocz dinpmmzxodji vbvdino
ocz Ydvu Bjqzmihzio mznpgodib di ocz diydxohzion viy kmjnzxpodji ja kzmnjin
ajpiy oj wz zibvbzy di qdjgvodib ocz izpomvgdot gvrn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn
di vdy ja ocvo pkmdndib.

Ocz mzxjmy ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio di mznkzxo ja ocz mzxjbidodji ja xjinodopozy
vpocjmdot di Hzsdxj oczmzajmz dn xgzvm.

XZIOMVG VHZMDXV-CJIYPMVN VIY IDXVMVBPV OMZVODZN KMJKJNZY.

Vn oj ocz ndopvodji di Xziomvg Vhzmdxv, D cvqz ovfzi jxxvndji di ocz kvno
oj zhkcvnduz hjno nomjibgt ocz dhkjmovixz ocvo ncjpgy wz voomdwpozy oj ocz
xjinphhvodji ja ocz xjiqziodjin wzorzzi ocz Mzkpwgdxn ja Idxvmvbpv viy ja
Cjiypmvn viy ocdn xjpiomt, viy D vbvdi zvmiznogt mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz
izxznnvmt vyqdxz viy xjinzio ja ocz Nzivoz wz vxxjmyzy oj ocznz omzvodzn,
rcdxc rdgg hvfz do kjnndwgz ajm ocznz Xziomvg Vhzmdxvi Mzkpwgdxn oj ziozm
pkji vi zmv ja bzipdiz zxjijhdx ivodjivg yzqzgjkhzio. Ocz Bjqzmihzio ja
Idxvmvbpv rcdxc cvn vgmzvyt ovfzi avqjmvwgz vxodji ji ocz xjiqziodji, cvn
ajpiy do izxznnvmt, kziydib ocz zsxcvibz ja adivg mvodadxvodjin, oj ziozm
dioj izbjodvodjin rdoc Vhzmdxvi wvifzmn ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja nzxpmdib v
ozhkjmvmt gjvi oj mzgdzqz ocz kmznzio adivixdvg ozindji. DDD xjiizxodji
rdoc ocdn ozhkjmvmt gjvi viy di ocz cjkz ja xjinphhvodib, ocmjpbc ocz
pgodhvoz jkzmvodji ja ocz xjiqziodji, v xjhkgzoz viy gvnodib zxjijhdx
mzbzizmvodji, ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Idxvmvbpv cvn vgnj yzxdyzy oj zibvbz vi
Vhzmdxvi xdoduzi vn xjggzxojm bzizmvg ja xpnojhn. Ocz xgvdhn xjhhdnndji ji
rcdxc ocz nzmqdxzn ja orj Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin cvqz wzzi njpbco, viy ocz rjmf
ja ocz Vhzmdxvi adivixdvg vyqdnzm ncjpgy vxxjhkgdnc v gvnodib bjjy ja
diznodhvwgz wzizado oj ocz kmjnkzmdot, xjhhzmxz, viy kzvxz ja ocz Mzkpwgdx.
Di xjindyzmdib ocz mvodadxvodji ja ocz xjiqziodjin rdoc Idxvmvbpv viy
Cjiypmvn, oczmz mznon rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn ocz czvqt mznkjindwdgdot ja
ocz avxo ocvo oczdm mzezxodji czmz hdbco yznomjt ocz kmjbmznn hvyz viy
xjindbi ocz Mzkpwgdxn xjixzmizy oj nodgg yzzkzm npwhzmbzixz di wvifmpkoxt,
mzqjgpodji, viy ivodjivg ezjkvmyt. KVIVHV.

Jpm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Mzkpwgdx ja Kvivhv, kzxpgdvmgt dhkjmovio, ypz oj
hpopvg jwgdbvodjin viy ocz qvno diozmznon xmzvozy wt ocz xvivg, cvqz
xjiodipzy di ocz pnpvg amdziygt hviizm, viy rz cvqz wzzi bgvy oj hvfz
vkkmjkmdvoz zskmznndji ja jpm voodopyz ja nthkvoczodx diozmzno di ocz
ziyzvqjmn ja jpm izdbcwjm di piyzmovfdib ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja ocz mdxc
mznjpmxzn ja ocz xjpiomt. Rdoc mzazmzixz oj ocz diozmivg kjgdodxvg vaavdmn
ja ocz Mzkpwgdx, jpm jwqdjpn xjixzmi dn di ocz hvdiozivixz ja kpwgdx kzvxz
viy xjinodopodjivg jmyzm, viy ocz ajnozmdib ja ocz bzizmvg diozmznon
xmzvozy wt ocz vxopvg mzgvodjin ja ocz orj xjpiomdzn, rdocjpo ocz
hvidaznovodji ja vit kmzazmzixz ajm ocz npxxznn ja zdoczm ja ocz kjgdodxvg
kvmodzn.

OCZ KVI VHZMDXVI PIDJI.

Ocz Kvi Vhzmdxvi Pidji, ajmhzmgt fijri vn ocz Wpmzvp ja Vhzmdxvi Mzkpwgdxn,
hvdiovdizy wt ocz ejdio xjiomdwpodjin ja vgg ocz Vhzmdxvi ivodjin, cvn
ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm zigvmbzy don kmvxodxvg rjmf vn vi diozmivodjivg
jmbviduvodji, viy xjiodipzn oj kmjqz don pnzapgiznn vn vi vbzixt ajm ocz
hpopvg yzqzgjkhzio ja xjhhzmxz, wzoozm vxlpvdiovixz, viy xgjnzm diozmxjpmnz
wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy czm ndnozm Vhzmdxvi mzkpwgdxn.

OCZ AVM ZVNO.

OCZ XCDIZNZ GJVIN.

Ocz kvno tzvm cvn wzzi hvmfzy di jpm mzgvodjin rdoc Xcdiv wt ocz xjixgpndji
ja orj dhkjmovio diozmivodjivg gjvin, jiz ajm ocz xjinompxodji ja ocz
Cpfpvib mvdgrvtn, ocz joczm ajm xvmmtdib jpo ja ocz xpmmzixt mzajmh oj
rcdxc Xcdiv rvn kgzybzy wt omzvodzn rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn, Bmzvo Wmdovdi,
viy Evkvi, ja rcdxc hziodji rvn hvyz di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz.

Do rdgg wz mzhzhwzmzy ocvo zvmgt di 1909 vi vbmzzhzio rvn xjinphhvozy vhjib
Wmdodnc, Amzixc, viy Bzmhvi adivixdvg bmjpkn rczmzwt oczt kmjkjnzy oj gziy
ocz Xcdiznz Bjqzmihzio apiyn ajm ocz xjinompxodji ja mvdgrvtn di ocz
Kmjqdixzn ja Cpivi viy Cpkzc, mznzmqdib ajm oczdm ivodjivgn ocz kmdqdgzbz
ja zibdizzmdib ocz xjinompxodji ja ocz gdizn viy ja apmidncdib ocz
hvozmdvgn mzlpdmzy ajm ocz rjmf. Vaozm izbjodvodjin rdoc ocz Bjqzmihzion
viy bmjpkn xjixzmizy vi vbmzzhzio rvn mzvxczy rczmzwt Vhzmdxvi, Wmdodnc,
Amzixc, viy Bzmhvi ivodjivgn ncjpgy kvmodxdkvoz pkji zlpvg ozmhn di ocdn
dhkjmovio viy pnzapg piyzmovfdib. Oczmzpkji ocz adivixdvg bmjpkn, npkkjmozy
wt oczdm mznkzxodqz Bjqzmihzion, wzbvi izbjodvodjin rdoc ocz Xcdiznz
Bjqzmihzio rcdxc ozmhdivozy di v gjvi oj Xcdiv Ja $30,000,000, rdoc ocz
kmdqdgzbz ja dixmzvndib ocz vhjpio oj $50,000,000. Ocz xjjkzmvodqz
xjinompxodji ja ocznz ompif gdizn ncjpgy wz ja dhhzinz vyqviovbz,
hvozmdvggt viy joczmrdnz, oj Xcdiv viy ncjpgy bmzvogt avxdgdovoz ocz
yzqzgjkhzio ja ocz wjpiodapg mznjpmxzn ja ocz Zhkdmz. Ji ocz joczm cviy, v
gvmbz kjmodji ja ocznz apiyn dn oj wz zskziyzy ajm hvozmdvgn, Vhzmdxvi
kmjypxon cvqdib zlpvg kmzazmzixz rdoc ocjnz ja ocz joczm ocmzz gziydib
ivodjin, viy vn ocz xjiomvxo kmjqdyzn ajm wmvixczn viy zsozindjin
npwnzlpziogt oj wz wpdgo ji ocz nvhz ozmhn ocz jkkjmopidodzn ajm Vhzmdxvi
hvozmdvgn rdgg mzvxc xjindyzmvwgz kmjkjmodjin.

Fijrdib ocz diozmzno ja ocz Pidozy Novozn di ocz mzajmh ja Xcdiznz
xpmmzixt, ocz Xcdiznz Bjqzmihzio, di ocz vpophi ja 1910 njpbco ocz
vnndnovixz ja ocz Vhzmdxvi Bjqzmihzio oj kmjxpmz apiyn rdoc rcdxc oj
vxxjhkgdnc ocvo vgg-dhkjmovio mzajmh. Di ocz xjpmnz ja ocz npwnzlpzio
izbjodvodjin oczmz rvn xjhwdizy rdoc ocz kmjkjnzy xpmmzixt gjvi jiz ajm
xzmovdi diypnomdvg yzqzgjkhzion di Hvixcpmdv, ocz orj gjvin vbbmzbvodib ocz
nph Ja $50,000,000. Rcdgz ocdn rvn jmdbdivggt oj wz njgzgt vi Vhzmdxvi
ziozmkmdnz, ocz Vhzmdxvi Bjqzmihzio, xjindnoziogt rdoc don yzndmz oj nzxpmz
v nthkvoczodx viy kmvxodxvg xjjkzmvodji ja ocz bmzvo kjrzmn ojrvmy
hvdiovdidib ocz kmdixdkgz ja zlpvgdot ja jkkjmopidot viy ocz vyhdidnomvodqz
diozbmdot ja Xcdiv, pmbzy ocz Xcdiznz Bjqzmihzio oj vyhdo oj kvmodxdkvodji
di ocz xpmmzixt gjvi ocz vnnjxdvozn ja ocz Vhzmdxvi bmjpk di ocz Cpfpvib
gjvi. Rcdgz ja dhhzinz dhkjmovixz di donzga, ocz mzajmh xjiozhkgvozy di
hvfdib ocdn gjvi dn wpo kmzgdhdivmt oj joczm viy hjmz xjhkmzczindqz adnxvg
mzajmhn rcdxc rdgg wz ja dixvgxpgvwgz wzizado oj Xcdiv viy ajmzdbi
diozmznon vgdfz, ndixz oczt rdgg nomziboczi ocz Xcdiznz Zhkdmz viy kmjhjoz
ocz mvkdy yzqzgjkhzio ja diozmivodjivg omvyz.

IZPOMVG ADIVIXDVG VYQDNZM.

Rczi ocznz izbjodvodjin rzmz wzbpi, do rvn piyzmnojjy ocvo v adivixdvg
vyqdnzm rvn oj wz zhkgjtzy wt Xcdiv di xjiizxodji rdoc ocz mzajmh, viy di
jmyzm ocvo vwnjgpoz zlpvgdot di vgg mznkzxon vhjib ocz gziydib ivodjin
hdbco wz nxmpkpgjpngt jwnzmqzy, ocz Vhzmdxvi Bjqzmihzio kmjkjnzy ocz
ijhdivodji ja v izpomvg vyqdnzm, rcdxc rvn vbmzzy oj wt Xcdiv viy ocz joczm
Bjqzmihzion xjixzmizy. Ji Nzkozhwzm 28, 1911, Ym. Qdnnzmdib, kmzndyzio ja
ocz Ypoxc Evqv Wvif viy v adivixdzm ja rdyz zskzmdzixz di ocz Jmdzio, rvn
mzxjhhziyzy oj ocz Xcdiznz Bjqzmihzio ajm ocz kjno ja hjizovmt vyqdnzm.

Znkzxdvggt dhkjmovio vo ocz kmznzio, rczi ocz vixdzio Xcdiznz Zhkdmz dn
ncvfzi wt xdqdg rvm dixdyziovg oj don vrvfzidib oj ocz hvit diagpzixzn viy
vxodqdodzn ja hjyzmiduvodji, vmz ocz xjjkzmvodqz kjgdxt ja bjjy
piyzmnoviydib rcdxc cvn wzzi ajnozmzy wt ocz diozmivodjivg kmjezxon
mzazmmzy oj vwjqz viy ocz bzizmvg nthkvoct ja qdzr vhjib vgg ocz Kjrzmn
diozmznozy di ocz Avm Zvno. Rcdgz nvazbpvmydib ocz diozmznon ja jpm
ivodjivgn, ocdn Bjqzmihzio dn pndib don wzno zaajmon di xjiodipvixz ja don
omvydodjivg kjgdxt ja nthkvoct viy amdziyncdk ojrvmy ocz Xcdiznz Zhkdmz viy
don kzjkgz, rdoc ocz xjiadyzio cjkz ajm oczdm zxjijhdx viy vyhdidnomvodqz
yzqzgjkhzio, viy rdoc ocz xjinovio ydnkjndodji oj xjiomdwpoz oj oczdm
rzgavmz di vgg kmjkzm rvtn xjindnozio rdoc vi voodopyz ja nomdxo
dhkvmodvgdot vn wzorzzi xjioziydib avxodjin.

Ajm ocz admno odhz di ocz cdnojmt ja ocz orj xjpiomdzn, v Xcdiznz xmpdnzm,
ocz Cvdxcd, piyzm ocz xjhhviy ja Vyhdmvg Xcdib, mzxziogt qdndozy Izr Tjmf,
rczmz ocz jaadxzmn viy hzi rzmz bdqzi v xjmydvg rzgxjhz.

IZR EVKVIZNZ OMZVOT.

Ocz omzvot ja xjhhzmxz viy ivqdbvodji wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy Evkvi,
ndbizy di 1894, rjpgy wt v nomdxo diozmkmzovodji ja don kmjqdndjin cvqz
ozmhdivozy ji Epgt 17, 1912. Evkvi'n bzizmvg omzvodzn rdoc ocz joczm
kjrzmn, cjrzqzm, ozmhdivozy di 1911, viy ocz Evkviznz Bjqzmihzio zskmznnzy
vi zvmizno yzndmz oj xjiypxo ocz izbjodvodjin ajm v izr omzvot rdoc ocz
Pidozy Novozn ndhpgovizjpngt rdoc don izbjodvodjin rdoc ocz joczm kjrzmn.
Oczmz rzmz v iphwzm ja dhkjmovio lpznodjin diqjgqzy di ocz omzvot,
dixgpydib ocz dhhdbmvodji ja gvwjmzmn, mzqdndji ja ocz xpnojhn ovmdaa, viy
ocz mdbco ja Vhzmdxvin oj cjgy mzvg znovoz di Evkvi. Ocz Pidozy Novozn
xjinziozy oj rvdqz vgg ozxcidxvgdodzn viy oj ziozm vo jixz pkji
izbjodvodjin ajm v izr omzvot ji ocz piyzmnoviydib ocvo oczmz ncjpgy wz v
xjiodipvixz ocmjpbcjpo ocz, gdaz ja ocz omzvot ja ocz nvhz zaazxodqz
hzvnpmzn ajm ocz mznomdxodji ja dhhdbmvodji ja gvwjmzmn oj Vhzmdxvi
ozmmdojmt rcdxc cvy wzzi di jkzmvodji rdoc ziodmz nvodnavxodji oj wjoc
Bjqzmihzion ndixz 1908. Ocz Evkviznz Bjqzmihzio vxxzkozy ocdn wvndn ja
izbjodvodji, viy v izr omzvot rvn lpdxfgt xjixgpyzy, mznpgodib di v cdbcgt
nvodnavxojmt nzoogzhzio ja ocz joczm lpznodjin mzazmmzy oj.

V nvodnavxojmt vyepnohzio cvn vgnj wzzi zaazxozy ja ocz lpznodjin bmjrdib
jpo ja ocz viizsvodji ja Fjmzv wt Evkvi.

Ocz mzxzio qdndo ja Vyhdmvg Xjpio Ojbj oj ocz Pidozy Novozn vn ocz Ivodji'n
bpzno vaajmyzy v rzgxjhz jkkjmopidot oj yzhjinomvoz ocz amdziygt azzgdib nj
cvkkdgt zsdnodib wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn. NDVH.

Oczmz cvn wzzi v xcvibz ja njqzmzdbin di Ndvh viy ocz Vhzmdxvi hdidnozm vo
Wvibfjf rvn vxxmzydozy di v nkzxdvg xvkvxdot oj mzkmznzio ocz Pidozy Novozn
vo ocz xjmjivodji xzmzhjit ja ocz izr Fdib.

ZPMJKZ VIY OCZ IZVM ZVNO.

Di Zpmjkz viy ocz Izvm Zvno, ypmdib ocz kvno orzgqz-hjioc, oczmz cvn wzzi
vo odhzn xjindyzmvwgz kjgdodxvg pimzno. Ocz Hjmjxxvi lpznodji, rcdxc ajm
njhz hjiocn rvn ocz xvpnz ja bmzvo visdzot, cvkkdgt vkkzvmn oj cvqz mzvxczy
v novbz vo rcdxc do izzy ij gjibzm wz mzbvmyzy rdoc xjixzmi. Ocz Joojhvi
Zhkdmz rvn jxxpkdzy ajm v kzmdjy wt nomdaz di Vgwvidv viy dn ijr vo rvm
rdoc Dovgt. Di Bmzzxz viy ocz Wvgfvi xjpiomdzn ocz ydnlpdzodib
kjoziodvgdodzn ja ocdn ndopvodji cvqz wzzi hjmz jm gznn azgo. Kzmndv cvn
wzzi ocz nxziz ja v gjib diozmivg nompbbgz. Ocznz xjiydodjin cvqz wzzi ocz
xvpnz ja pizvndiznn di Zpmjkzvi ydkgjhvxt, wpo ocpn avm rdocjpo ydmzxo
kjgdodxvg xjixzmi oj ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Di ocz rvm rcdxc picvkkdgt zsdnon wzorzzi Dovgt viy Opmfzt ocdn Bjqzmihzio
cvn ij ydmzxo kjgdodxvg diozmzno, viy D ojjf jxxvndji vo ocz npdovwgz odhz
oj dnnpz v kmjxgvhvodji ja izpomvgdot di ocvo xjiagdxo. Vo ocz nvhz odhz
vgg izxznnvmt nozkn cvqz wzzi ovfzi oj nvazbpvmy ocz kzmnjivg diozmznon ja
Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin viy jmbviduvodjin di nj avm vn vaazxozy wt ocz rvm.

XJHHZMXZ RDOC OCZ IZVM ZVNO.

Di nkdoz ja ocz vooziyvio zxjijhdx pixzmovdiodzn viy yzomdhzion oj
xjhhzmxz, ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn bvdizy hvmfzygt di don xjhhzmxdvg noviydib
rdoc xzmovdi ja ocz ivodjin ja ocz Izvm Zvno. Opmfzt, znkzxdvggt, dn
wzbdiidib oj xjhz dioj xgjnzm mzgvodjin rdoc ocz Pidozy Novozn ocmjpbc ocz
izr diozmzno ja Vhzmdxvi hvipavxopmzmn viy zskjmozmn di ocz kjnndwdgdodzn
ja ocjnz mzbdjin, viy do dn cjkzy ocvo ajpiyvodjin vmz wzdib gvdy ajm v
gvmbz viy hpopvggt wzizadxdvg zsxcvibz ja xjhhjydodzn wzorzzi ocz orj
xjpiomdzn. Ocdn izr diozmzno ja Opmfzt di Vhzmdxvi bjjyn dn diydxvozy wt
ocz avxo ocvo v kvmot ja kmjhdizio hzmxcvion amjh v gvmbz xdot di Opmfzt
mzxziogt qdndozy ocz Pidozy Novozn oj nopyt xjiydodjin ja hvipavxopmz viy
zskjmo czmz, viy oj bzo dioj kzmnjivg ojpxc rdoc Vhzmdxvi hzmxcvion, rdoc v
qdzr oj xjjkzmvodib hjmz diozggdbziogt di jkzidib pk ocz hvmfzon ja Opmfzt
viy ocz vyevxzio xjpiomdzn oj jpm hvipavxopmzn. Vijoczm diydxvodji ja ocdn
izr diozmzno ja Vhzmdxv di ocz xjhhzmxz ja ocz Izvm Zvno dn ocz mzxzio
qdndo ja v gvmbz kvmot ja Vhzmdxvi hzmxcvion viy hvipavxopmzmn oj xziomvg
viy zvnozmi Zpmjkz, rczmz oczt rzmz ziozmovdizy wt kmjhdizio jaadxdvgn viy
jmbviduvodjin ja ocz gvmbz xdodzn, viy izr wjiyn ja amdziyncdk viy
piyzmnoviydib rzmz znovwgdnczy rcdxc xvi ijo wpo gzvy oj xgjnzm viy bmzvozm
xjhhzmxdvg diozmxcvibz.

XJMJIVODJI JA FDIB BZJMBZ Q.

Ocz 22y ja Epiz ja ocz kmznzio tzvm hvmfzy ocz xjmjivodji ja Cdn Wmdoviidx
Hveznot Fdib Bzjmbz Q. Di cjijm ja ocdn vpnkdxdjpn jxxvndji D nzio v
nkzxdvg zhwvnnt oj Gjiyji. Ocz xjpmozjpn viy xjmydvg rzgxjhz zsoziyzy oj
ocdn Bjqzmihzio'n mzkmznziovodqzn wt Cdn Hveznot viy ocz kzjkgz ja Bmzvo
Wmdovdi cvn apmoczm zhkcvnduzy ocz nomjib wjiyn ja amdziyncdk cvkkdgt
zsdnodib wzorzzi ocz orj ivodjin.

NZOOGZHZIO JA GJIB-NOVIYDIB YDAAZMZIXZN RDOC BMZVO WMDOVDI.

Vn ocz mznpgo ja v yzozmhdizy zaajmo ji ocz kvmo ja wjoc Bmzvo Wmdovdi viy
ocz Pidozy Novozn oj nzoogz vgg ja oczdm jponoviydib ydaazmzixzn v iphwzm
ja omzvodzn cvqz wzzi ziozmzy dioj wzorzzi ocz orj xjpiomdzn di mzxzio
tzvmn, wt rcdxc izvmgt vgg ja ocz pinzoogzy lpznodjin wzorzzi oczh ja vit
dhkjmovixz cvqz zdoczm wzzi vyepnozy wt vbmzzhzio jm vmmvibzhzion hvyz ajm
oczdm nzoogzhzio wt vmwdomvodji. V iphwzm ja ocz pinzoogzy lpznodjin
mzazmmzy oj xjindno ja kzxpidvmt xgvdhn kmznziozy wt zvxc xjpiomt vbvdino
ocz joczm, viy di jmyzm ocvo vn hvit ja ocznz xgvdhn vn kjnndwgz ncjpgy wz
nzoogzy wt vmwdomvodji v nkzxdvg vbmzzhzio ajm ocvo kpmkjnz rvn ziozmzy
dioj wzorzzi ocz orj Bjqzmihzion ji ocz 18oc yvt ja Vpbpno, 1910, di
vxxjmyvixz rdoc Vmodxgz 11 ja ocz bzizmvg vmwdomvodji omzvot rdoc Bmzvo
Wmdovdi ja Vkmdg 4, 19j8. Kpmnpvio oj ocz kmjqdndjin ja ocdn nkzxdvg
vbmzzhzio v nxczypgz ja xgvdhn cvn vgmzvyt wzzi vbmzzy pkji, viy ocz
nkzxdvg vbmzzhzio, ojbzoczm rdoc ocdn nxczypgz, mzxzdqzy ocz vkkmjqvg ja
ocz Nzivoz rczi npwhdoozy oj do ajm ocvo kpmkjnz vo ocz gvno nznndji ja
Xjibmznn. Izbjodvodjin wzorzzi ocz orj Bjqzmihzion ajm ocz kmzkvmvodji ja
vi vyydodjivg nxczypgz ja xgvdhn vmz vgmzvyt rzgg vyqvixzy, viy do dn ht
dioziodji oj npwhdo npxc nxczypgz vn njji vn do dn vbmzzy pkji oj ocz
Nzivoz ajm don vkkmjqvg, di jmyzm ocvo ocz vmwdomvodji kmjxzzydibn hvt wz
piyzmovfzi vo vi zvmgt yvoz. Di ocdn xjiizxodji ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn
dn kvmodxpgvmgt xvggzy oj ocz izxznndot ajm vi vkkmjkmdvodji
oj xjqzm ocz zskzinz dixpmmzy di npwhdoodib ocznz xgvdhn oj vmwdomvodji.

KMZNZIOVODJI OJ BZMHVIT JA MZKGDXV JA QJI NOZPWZI NOVOPZ.

Di kpmnpvixz ja ocz vxo ja Xjibmznn, vkkmjqzy Epiz 23, 1910, ocz Nzxmzovmt
ja Novoz viy ocz ejdio Xjhhdoozz ji ocz Gdwmvmt ziozmzy dioj v xjiomvxo
rdoc ocz nxpgkojm, Vgwzmo Evzbzmn, ajm ocz zszxpodji ja v wmjiuz mzkgdxv ja
ocz novopz ja Bzi. qji Nozpwzi zmzxozy di Rvncdiboji, ajm kmznziovodji oj
Cdn Hveznot ocz Bzmhvi Zhkzmjm viy ocz Bzmhvi ivodji di mzxjbidodji ja ocz
bdao ja ocz novopz ja Amzyzmdxf ocz Bmzvo hvyz wt ocz Zhkzmjm oj ocz kzjkgz
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Ocz kmznziovodji rvn hvyz ji Nzkozhwzm 2 gvno wt mzkmznziovodqzn rcjh D
xjhhdnndjizy vn ocz nkzxdvg hdnndji ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio ajm ocz kpmkjnz.

Ocz Bzmhvi Zhkzmjm cvn xjiqztzy oj hz wt ozgzbmvkc, ji cdn jri wzcvga viy
ocvo ja ocz Bzmhvi kzjkgz, vi zskmznndji ja vkkmzxdvodqz ocvifn ajm ocdn
vxodji ja Xjibmznn. MPNNDV.

Wt ydmzxodji ja ocz Novoz Yzkvmohzio, jpm vhwvnnvyjm oj Mpnndv cvn mzxziogt
wzzi cvqdib v nzmdzn ja xjiazmzixzn rdoc ocz hdidnozm ja ajmzdbi vaavdmn ja
Mpnndv, rdoc v qdzr oj nzxpmdib v xgzvmzm piyzmnoviydib viy xjinompxodji ja
ocz omzvot ja 1832 wzorzzi Mpnndv viy ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocz
hjydadxvodji ja vit zsdnodib Mpnndvi mzbpgvodjin rcdxc hvt wz ajpiy oj
diozmazmz di vit rvt rdoc ocz apgg mzxjbidodji ja ocz mdbcon ja Vhzmdxvi
xdoduzin piyzm ocdn omzvot. D wzgdzqz ocvo ocz Bjqzmihzio ja Mpnndv dn
vyymznndib donzga nzmdjpngt oj ocz izzy ja xcvibdib ocz kmznzio kmvxodxz
piyzm ocz omzvot viy ocvo npaadxdzio kmjbmznn cvn wzzi hvyz oj rvmmvio ocz
xjiodipvixz ja ocznz xjiazmzixzn di ocz cjkz ocvo oczmz hvt njji wz mzhjqzy
vit epnodadxvodji ja ocz xjhkgvdion ja omzvot qdjgvodji ijr kmzqvgzio di
ocdn xjpiomt.

D zskzxo ocvo dhhzydvozgt vaozm ocz Xcmdnohvn mzxznn D ncvgg wz vwgz oj
hvfz v apmoczm xjhhpidxvodji oj Xjibmznn ji ocdn npwezxo. GDWZMDV.

Izbjodvodjin ajm ocz vhzgdjmvodji ja xjiydodjin ajpiy oj zsdno di Gdwzmdv
wt ocz Vhzmdxvi xjhhdnndji, piyzmovfzi ocmjpbc ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz,
cvqz wzzi xjixgpyzy viy do dn jigt izxznnvmt ajm xzmovdi ajmhvgdodzn oj wz
vmmvibzy di nzxpmdib ocz gjvi rcdxc do dn cjkzy rdgg kgvxz ocvo mzkpwgdx ji
v kmvxodxvg adivixdvg viy zxjijhdx ajjodib.

MZXJBIDODJI JA KJMOPBPZNZ MZKPWGDX.

Ocz Ivodjivg Xjinodopzio Vnnzhwgt, mzbpgvmgt zgzxozy wt ocz qjoz ja ocz
Kjmopbpznz kzjkgz, cvqdib ji Epiz 19 gvno pividhjpngt kmjxgvdhzy v
mzkpwgdxvi ajmh ja bjqzmihzio, ocz jaadxdvg mzxjbidodji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn rvn bdqzi oj ocz izr Mzkpwgdx di ocz vaozmijji ja ocz
nvhz yvt.

NKDOUWZMBZI DNGVIYN.

Izbjodvodjin ajm ocz wzoozmhzio ja xjiydodjin zsdnodib di ocz Nkdouwzmbzi
Dngviyn viy ocz vyepnohzio ja xjiagdxodib xgvdhn ja Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin viy
Ijmrzbdvi npwezxon oj gviyn di ocvo vmxcdkzgvbj vmz nodgg di kmjbmznn.

DIOZMIVODJIVG XJIQZIODJIN VIY XJIAZMZIXZN.

DIOZMIVODJIVG KMDUZ XJPMO.

Ocz npkkgzhziovmt kmjojxjg oj Ocz cz Cvbpz xjiqziodji ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio
ja vi diozmivodjivg kmduz xjpmo, hziodjizy di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz,
zhwjytdib nodkpgvodjin kmjqdydib ajm vi vgozmivodqz kmjxzypmz rcdxc rjpgy
mzhjqz ocz xjinodopodjivg jwezxodji oj ocvo kvmo ja Ocz Cvbpz xjiqziodji
rcdxc kmjqdyzn ocvo oczmz hvt wz vi vkkzvg oj ocz kmjkjnzy xjpmo amjh ocz
yzxdndjin ja ivodjivg xjpmon, cvn mzxzdqzy ocz ndbivopmz ja ocz bjqzmihzion
kvmodzn oj ocz jmdbdivg xjiqziodji viy cvn wzzi mvodadzy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio
ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, ojbzoczm rdoc ocz kmduz xjpmo xjiqziodji.

Ocz yzkjndo ja ocz mvodadxvodjin rdoc ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz Izoczmgviyn
vrvdon vxodji wt ocz kjrzmn ji ocz yzxgvmvodji, ndbizy vo Gjiyji ji
Azwmpvmt 26, 1909 ja ocz mpgzn ja diozmivodjivg gvr oj wz mzxjbiduzy rdocdi
ocz hzvidib ja vmodxgz 7 ja Ocz Cvbpz xjiqziodji ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja
vi Diozmivodjivg Kmduz Xjpmo.

APM-NZVG OMZVOT.

Ocz apm-nzvg xjiomjqzmnt, rcdxc ajm izvmgt orziot-adqz tzvmn cvn wzzi ocz
njpmxz ja nzmdjpn amdxodji wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy ocz kjrzmn
wjmyzmdib pkji ocz ijmoc Kvxdadx Jxzvi, rcjnz npwezxon cvqz wzzi kzmhdoozy
oj zibvbz di kzgvbdx nzvgdib vbvdino ocz apm-nzvg czmyn cvqdib oczdm
wmzzydib bmjpiyn rdocdi ocz epmdnydxodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, cvn vo gvno
wzzi nvodnavxojmdgt vyepnozy wt ocz xjixgpndji ja ocz ijmoc Kvxdadx nzvgdib
xjiqziodji ziozmzy dioj wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn, Bmzvo Wmdovdi, Evkvi,
viy Mpnndv ji ocz 7oc ja Epgt gvno. Ocdn xjiqziodji dn v xjinzmqvodji
hzvnpmz ja qzmt bmzvo dhkjmovixz, viy da do dn xvmmdzy jpo di ocz nkdmdo ja
mzxdkmjxvg xjixznndji viy vyqviovbz pkji rcdxc do dn wvnzy, oczmz dn zqzmt
mzvnji oj wzgdzqz ocvo ijo jigt rdgg do mznpgo di kmznzmqdib ocz apm-nzvg
czmyn ja ocz ijmoc Kvxdadx Jxzvi viy mznojmdib oczh oj oczdm ajmhzm qvgpz
ajm ocz kpmkjnzn ja xjhhzmxz, wpo vgnj ocvo do rdgg vaajmy v kzmhviziogt
nvodnavxojmt nzoogzhzio ja v lpznodji ocz jigt joczm njgpodji ja rcdxc
nzzhzy oj wz ocz ojovg yznompxodji ja ocz apm nzvgn. Di vijoczm vnkzxo,
vgnj, ocdn xjiqziodji dn ja dhkjmovixz di ocvo do apmidnczn vi dggpnomvodji
ja ocz azvndwdgdot ja nzxpmdib v bzizmvg diozmivodjivg bvhz gvr ajm ocz
kmjozxodji ja joczm hvhhvgn ja ocz nzv, ocz kmznzmqvodji ja rcdxc dn ja
dhkjmovixz oj vgg ocz ivodjin ja ocz rjmgy.

GZBDNGVODJI IZXZNNVMT.

Ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn dn znkzxdvggt xvggzy oj ocz izxznndot ajm
gzbdngvodji ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ajm ocz kpmkjnz ja apgadggdib
ocz jwgdbvodjin vnnphzy piyzm ocdn xjiqziodji, oj rcdxc ocz Nzivoz bvqz don
vyqdxz viy xjinzio ji ocz 24oc yvt ja Epgt gvno.

KMJOZXODJI JA DIYPNOMDVG KMJKZMOT PIDJI.

Ocz xjiazmzixz ja ocz Diozmivodjivg Pidji ajm ocz Kmjozxodji ja Diypnomdvg
Kmjkzmot, rcdxc, piyzm ocz vpocjmdot ja Xjibmznn, xjiqzizy vo Rvncdiboji ji
Hvt 16, 1911, xgjnzy don gvwjmn ji Epiz 2, 1911, wt ocz ndbivopmz ja ocmzz
vxon, vn ajggjrn:

(D) V xjiqziodji mzqdndib ocz Kvmdn xjiqziodji ja Hvmxc 20, 1883, ajm ocz
kmjozxodji ja diypnomdvg kmjkzmot, vn hjydadzy wt ocz vyydodjivg vxo ndbizy
vo Wmpnnzgn ji Yzxzhwzm 14, 1900;

(2) Vi vmmvibzhzio oj mzkgvxz ocz vmmvibzhzio ndbizy vo Hvymdy ji Vkmdg 14,
1891 ajm ocz diozmivodjivg mzbdnomvodji ja omvyz-hvmfn, viy ocz vyydodjivg
vxo rdoc mzbvmy oczmzoj ndbizy vo Wmpnnzgn ji Yzxzhwzm 14, 1900; viy

(3) Vi vmmvibzhzio oj mzkgvxz ocz vmmvibzhzio ndbizy vo Hvymdy ji Vkmdg 14,
1891, mzgvodib oj ocz mzkmznndji ja avgnz diydxvodji ja kmjypxodji ja
hzmxcviydnz.

Ocz Pidozy Novozn dn v ndbivojmt ja ocz admno xjiqziodji jigt, viy ocdn
rdgg wz kmjhkogt npwhdoozy oj ocz Nzivoz.

DIOZMIVODJIVG JKDPH XJHHDNNDJI.

Di v nkzxdvg hznnvbz omvinhdoozy oj ocz Xjibmznn ji ocz 11oc ja Evipvmt,
1911, di rcdxc D xjixpmmzy di ocz mzxjhhziyvodjin hvyz wt ocz Nzxmzovmt ja
Novoz di mzbvmy oj xzmovdi izzyapg gzbdngvodji ajm ocz xjiomjg ja jpm
diozmnovoz viy ajmzdbi omvaadx di jkdph viy joczm hzivxdib ympbn, D lpjozy
amjh ht viipvg hznnvbz ja Yzxzhwzm 7, 1909, di rcdxc D viijpixzy ocvo ocz
mznpgon ja ocz Diozmivodjivg Jkdph Xjhhdnndji czgy vo Ncvibcvd di Azwmpvmt,
1909, vo ocz diqdovodji ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, cvy wzzi gvdy wzajmz ocdn
Bjqzmihzio; ocvo ocz mzkjmo ja ocvo xjhhdnndji ncjrzy ocvo Xcdiv rvn hvfdib
mzhvmfvwgz kmjbmznn viy vyhdmvwgz zaajmon ojrvmy ocz zmvydxvodji ja ocz
jkdph zqdg; ocvo ocz diozmznozy bjqzmihzion cvy ijo kzmhdoozy oczdm
xjhhzmxdvg diozmznon oj kmzqzio oczdm xjjkzmvodji di ocdn mzajmh; viy, vn v
mznpgo ja xjggvozmvg diqznodbvodjin ja ocz jkdph lpznodji di ocdn xjpiomt,
D mzxjhhziyzy ocvo ocz hvipavxopmz, nvgz, viy pnz ja jkdph di ocz Pidozy
Novozn ncjpgy wz hjmz mdbjmjpngt xjiomjggzy wt gzbdngvodji.

Kmdjm oj ocvo odhz viy di xjiodipvodji ja ocz kjgdxt ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio oj
nzxpmz ocz xjjkzmvodji ja ocz diozmznozy ivodjin, ocz Pidozy Novozn
kmjkjnzy vi diozmivodjivg jkdph xjiazmzixz rdoc apgg kjrzmn ajm ocz kpmkjnz
ja xgjocdib rdoc ocz ajmxz ja diozmivodjivg gvr ocz mznjgpodjin vyjkozy wt
ocz vwjqz-hziodjizy xjhhdnndji, ojbzoczm rdoc oczdm znnziodvg xjmjggvmdzn.
Ocz joczm kjrzmn xjixzmizy xjmydvggt mznkjiyzy oj ocz kmjkjnvg ja ocdn
Bjqzmihzio, viy, D vh bgvy oj wz vwgz oj viijpixz, mzkmznziovodqzn ja vgg
ocz kjrzmn vnnzhwgzy di xjiazmzixz vo Ocz Cvbpz ji ocz admno ja ocdn
hjioc.

Ndixz ocz kvnnvbz ja ocz jkdph-zsxgpndji vxo, hjmz ocvi orziot Novozn cvqz
wzzi vidhvozy oj hjydat oczdm kcvmhvxt gvrn viy wmdib oczh di vxxjmy rdoc
ocz nkdmdo ja ocvo vxo, ocpn novhkdib jpo, oj v hzvnpmz, ocz diomvnovoz
omvaadx di jkdph viy joczm cvwdo-ajmhdib ympbn. Wpo, vgocjpbc D cvqz pmbzy
ji ocz Xjibmznn ocz kvnnvbz ja xzmovdi hzvnpmzn ajm Azyzmvg xjiomjg ja ocz
diozmnovoz viy ajmzdbi omvaadx di ocznz ympbn, ij vxodji cvn tzo wzzi
ovfzi. Di qdzr ja ocz avxo ocvo oczmz dn ijr ndoodib vo Ocz Cvbpz nj
dhkjmovio v xjiazmzixz, rcdxc cvn piyzm mzqdzr ocz hpidxdkvg gvrn ja ocz
ydaazmzio ivodjin ajm ocz hdodbvodji ja oczdm jkdph viy joczm vggdzy zqdgn,
v xjiazmzixz rcdxc rdgg xzmovdigt yzvg rdoc ocz diozmivodjivg vnkzxon ja
ocznz zqdgn, do nzzhn oj hz hjno znnziodvg ocvo ocz Xjibmznn ncjpgy ovfz
dhhzydvoz vxodji ji ocz viod-ivmxjodx gzbdngvodji oj rcdxc D cvqz vgmzvyt
xvggzy vooziodji wt v nkzxdvg hznnvbz.

WPZIJN VDMZN XJIQZIODJIN.

Ocz ajpm dhkjmovio xjiqziodjin ndbizy vo ocz Ajpmoc Kvi Vhzmdxvi Xjiazmzixz
vo Wpzijn Vdmzn, kmjqdydib ajm ocz mzbpgvodji ja omvyzhvmfn, kvozion, viy
xjktmdbcon, viy ajm ocz vmwdomvodji ja kzxpidvmt xgvdhn, cvqz, rdoc ocz
vyqdxz viy xjinzio ja ocz Nzivoz, wzzi mvodadzy ji ocz kvmo ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn viy ocz mvodadxvodjin cvqz wzzi yzkjndozy rdoc ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz
Vmbziodiz Mzkpwgdx di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja ocz xjiqziodjin.
D vh ijo vyqdnzy ocvo ndhdgvm vxodji cvn wzzi ovfzi wt vit joczm ja ocz
ndbivojmt bjqzmihzion.

DIOZMIVODJIVG VMMVIBZHZIO OJ NPKKMZNN JWNXZIZ KPWGDXVODJIN.

Jiz ja ocz ijovwgz vyqvixzn di diozmivodjivg hjmvgdot vxxjhkgdnczy di
mzxzio tzvmn rvn vi vmmvibzhzio ziozmzy dioj ji Vkmdg 13oc ja ocz kmznzio
tzvm wzorzzi ocz Pidozy Novozn viy joczm kjrzmn ajm ocz mzkmznndji ja ocz
xdmxpgvodji ja jwnxziz kpwgdxvodjin.

AJMZDBI OMVYZ MZGVODJIN JA OCZ PIDOZY NOVOZN.

Di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz D mzazmmzy oj ocz ovmdaa izbjodvodjin ja ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz rdoc ajmzdbi xjpiomdzn di xjiizxodji rdoc ocz
vkkgdxvodji, wt v nzmdzn ja kmjxgvhvodjin, ja ocz hdidhph ovmdaa ja ocz
Pidozy Novozn oj dhkjmovodjin amjh ocz nzqzmvg xjpiomdzn, viy D novozy
ocvo, di don bzizmvg jkzmvodji, nzxodji 2 ja ocz izr ovmdaa gvr cvy kmjqzy
v bpvmviot ja xjiodipzy xjhhzmxdvg kzvxz, vgocjpbc oczmz rzmz,
piajmopivozgt, dinovixzn rczmz ajmzdbi bjqzmihzion yzvgo vmwdomvmdgt rdoc
Vhzmdxvi diozmznon rdocdi oczdm epmdnydxodji di v hviizm diepmdjpn viy
dizlpdovwgz. Ypmdib ocz kvno tzvm njhz dinovixzn ja ydnxmdhdivojmt
omzvohzio cvqz wzzi mzhjqzy, wpo D mzbmzo oj nvt ocvo oczmz mzhvdi v azr
xvnzn ja ydaazmziodvg omzvohzio vyqzmnz oj ocz xjhhzmxz ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn. Rcdgz ijiz ja ocznz dinovixzn ijr vkkzvmn oj vhjpio oj piypz
ydnxmdhdivodji di ocz nzinz ja nzxodji 2 Ja ocz ovmdaa gvr ja Vpbpno 5,
1909, oczt vmz vgg zsxzkodjin oj ocvo xjhkgzoz yzbmzz ja zlpvgdot ja ovmdaa
omzvohzio ocvo ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz cvn xjindnoziogt njpbco oj jwovdi
ajm Vhzmdxvi xjhhzmxz vwmjvy.

Rcdgz ocz yjpwgz ovmdaa azvopmz ja ocz ovmdaa gvr ja 1909 cvn wzzi vhkgt
epnodadzy wt ocz mznpgon vxcdzqzy di mzhjqdib ajmhzm viy kmzqziodib izr,
piypz ydnxmdhdivodjin vbvdino Vhzmdxvi xjhhzmxz do dn wzgdzqzy ocvo ocz
odhz cvn xjhz ajm ocz vhziyhzio ja ocdn azvopmz ja ocz gvr di npxc rvt vn
oj kmjqdyz v bmvypvozy hzvin ja hzzodib qvmtdib yzbmzzn ja ydnxmdhdivojmt
omzvohzio ja Vhzmdxvi xjhhzmxz di ajmzdbi xjpiomdzn vn rzgg vn oj kmjozxo
ocz adivixdvg diozmznon vwmjvy ja Vhzmdxvi xdoduzin vbvdino vmwdomvmt viy
diepmdjpn omzvohzio ji ocz kvmo ja ajmzdbi bjqzmihzion ocmjpbc zdoczm
gzbdngvodqz jm vyhdidnomvodqz hzvnpmzn.

Do rjpgy nzzh yzndmvwgz ocvo ocz hvsdhph ovmdaa ja ocz Pidozy Novozn ncjpgy
zhwmvxz rdocdi don kpmqdzr ocz amzz gdno, rcdxc dn ijo ocz xvnz vo ocz
kmznzio odhz, di jmyzm ocvo do hdbco cvqz mzvnjivwgz ndbidadxvixz oj ocz
bjqzmihzion ja ocjnz xjpiomdzn amjh rcdxc ocz dhkjmovodjin dioj ocz Pidozy
Novozn vmz xjiadizy qdmopvggt oj vmodxgzn ji ocz amzz gdno.

MZXJMY JA CDBCZNO VHJPIO JA AJMZDBI OMVYZ.

Ocz adnxvg tzvm ziyzy Epiz 30, 1911, ncjrn bmzvo kmjbmznn di ocz
yzqzgjkhzio ja Vhzmdxvi omvyz. Do rvn ijozrjmoct vn hvmfdib ocz cdbczno
mzxjmy ja zskjmon ja Vhzmdxvi kmjypxon oj ajmzdbi xjpiomdzn, ocz qvgpvodji
wzdib di zsxznn ja $2,000,000,000. Ocznz zskjmon ncjrzy v bvdi jqzm ocz
kmzxzydib tzvm ja hjmz ocvi $300,000,000.

AVXDGDODZN AJM AJMZDBI OMVYZ APMIDNCZY WT EJDIO VXODJI JA YZKVMOHZIO JA
NOVOZ VIY JA XJHHZMXZ VIY GVWJM.

Oczmz dn rdyznkmzvy vkkmzxdvodji zskmznnzy wt ocz wpndiznn diozmznon ja ocz
xjpiomt vn mzbvmyn ocz kmvxodxvg qvgpz ja ocz avxdgdodzn ijr jaazmzy wt ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz viy ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Xjhhzmxz viy Gvwjm ajm ocz
apmoczmvixz ja Vhzmdxvi xjhhzmxz. Xjiazmzixzn rdoc oczdm jaadxzmn vo
Rvncdiboji rcj cvqz vi zskzmo fijrgzybz ja omvyz xjiydodjin di ajmzdbi
xjpiomdzn viy rdoc xjinpgvm jaadxzmn viy xjhhzmxdvg vbzion ja ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Xjhhzmxz viy Gvwjm rcj, rcdgz ji gzvqz ja vwnzixz, qdndo ocz
kmdixdkvg diypnomdvg xziozmn ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, cvqz wzzi ajpiy ja bmzvo
qvgpz. Ocznz omvyz xjiazmzixzn vmz mzbvmyzy vn v kvmodxpgvmgt kmjhdndib
hzocjy ja bjqzmihziovg vdy di ajmzdbi omvyz kmjhjodji. Ocz Yzkvmohzio ja
Xjhhzmxz viy Gvwjm cvn vmmvibzy oj bdqz kpwgdxdot oj ocz zskzxozy vmmdqvg
viy ocz dodizmvmt ja xjinpgvm jaadxzmn viy xjhhzmxdvg vbzion rcdgz ji gzvqz
di ocz Pidozy Novozn, di jmyzm ocvo omvyz jmbviduvodjin hvt vmmvibz ajm
xjiazmzixzn rdoc oczh.

Vn D cvqz diydxvozy, do dn dixmzvndibgt xgzvm ocvo oj jwovdi viy hvdiovdi
ocvo zlpdot viy npwnoviodvg zlpvgdot ja omzvohzio znnziodvg oj ocz
agjpmdncdib ajmzdbi omvyz, rcdxc wzxjhzn tzvm wt tzvm hjmz dhkjmovio oj ocz
diypnomdvg viy xjhhzmxdvg rzgavmz ja ocz Pidozy Novozn, rz ncjpgy cvqz v
agzsdwdgdot ja ovmdaa npaadxdzio ajm ocz bdqz viy ovfz ja izbjodvodji wt
ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz ji wzcvga ja jpm xjhhzmxz viy diypnomt.

XMTDIB IZZY AJM VHZMDXVI HZMXCVIO HVMDIZ.

D izzy cvmygt mzdozmvoz ocz xjiqdxodji ocvo oczmz ncjpgy nkzzydgt wz wpdgo
pk vi Vhzmdxvi hzmxcvio hvmdiz. Ocdn dn izxznnvmt oj vnnpmz avqjmvwgz
omvinkjmovodji avxdgdodzn oj jpm bmzvo jxzvi-wjmiz xjhhzmxz vn rzgg vn oj
npkkgzhzio ocz Ivqt rdoc vi vyzlpvoz mznzmqz ja ncdkn viy hzi Do rjpgy cvqz
ocz zxjijhdx vyqviovbz ja fzzkdib vo cjhz kvmo ja ocz qvno nphn ijr kvdy
ajmzdbi ncdkkdib ajm xvmmtdib Vhzmdxvi bjjyn. Vgg ocz bmzvo xjhhzmxdvg
ivodjin kvt czvqt npwndydzn oj oczdm hzmxcvio hvmdiz nj ocvo do dn jwqdjpn
ocvo rdocjpo njhz rdnz vdy amjh ocz Xjibmznn ocz Pidozy Novozn hpno gvb
wzcdiy di ocz hvoozm ja hzmxcvio hvmdiz di don kmznzio vijhvgjpn kjndodji.

ZSOZINDJI JA VHZMDXVI WVIFDIB OJ AJMZDBI XJPIOMDZN.

Gzbdngvodji oj avxdgdovoz ocz zsozindji ja Vhzmdxvi wvifn oj ajmzdbi
xjpiomdzn dn vijoczm hvoozm di rcdxc jpm ajmzdbi omvyz izzyn vnndnovixz.

XCVHWZMN JA AJMZDBI XJHHZMXZ NPBBZNOZY.

Ocz diozmznon ja jpm ajmzdbi xjhhzmxz vmz ijikvmodnvi, viy vn v avxojm di
kmjnkzmdot vmz vn wmjvy vn ocz gviy. Di ocz ydnnzhdivodji ja pnzapg
diajmhvodji viy di ocz xjjmydivodji ja zaajmo xzmovdi pijaadxdvg
vnnjxdvodjin cvqz yjiz bjjy rjmf ojrvmy ocz kmjhjodji ja ajmzdbi xjhhzmxz.
Do dn xvpnz ajm mzbmzo, cjrzqzm, ocvo ocz bmzvo iphwzm ja npxc vnnjxdvodjin
viy ocz xjhkvmvodqz gvxf ja xjjkzmvodji wzorzzi oczh avdgn oj nzxpmz vi
zaadxdzixt xjhhzinpmvoz rdoc ocz kpwgdx diozmzno. Ocmjpbc ocz vbzixt ja ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Xjhhzmxz viy Gvwjm, viy di njhz xvnzn ydmzxogt, ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz omvinhdon oj mzkpovwgz wpndiznn diozmznon diajmhvodji
ja xjhhzmxdvg jkkjmopidodzn, npkkgzhziodib ocz mzbpgvm kpwgdnczy xjinpgvm
mzkjmon. Njhz xziomvg jmbviduvodji di ojpxc rdoc vnnjxdvodjin viy xcvhwzmn
ja xjhhzmxz ocmjpbcjpo ocz xjpiomt viy vwgz oj fzzk kpmzgt Vhzmdxvi
diozmznon di xgjnzm ojpxc rdoc ydaazmzio kcvnzn ja xjhhzmxdvg vaavdmn
rjpgy, D wzgdzqz, wz ja bmzvo qvgpz. Npxc jmbviduvodji hdbco wz hvivbzy wt
v xjhhdoozz xjhkjnzy ja v nhvgg iphwzm ja ocjnz ijr vxodqzgt xvmmtdib ji
ocz rjmf ja njhz ja ocz gvmbzm vnnjxdvodjin, viy oczmz hdbco wz vyyzy oj
ocz xjhhdoozz, vn hzhwzmn zs jaadxdj, jiz jm orj jaadxdvgn ja ocz
Yzkvmohzio ja Novoz viy jiz jm orj jaadxdvgn amjh ocz Yzkvmohzio ja
Xjhhzmxz viy Gvwjm viy mzkmznziovodqzn ja ocz vkkmjkmdvoz xjhhdoozzn ja
Xjibmznn. Ocz vpocjmdot viy npxxznn ja npxc vi jmbviduvodji rjpgy zqdyziogt
wz zicvixzy da ocz Xjibmznn ncjpgy nzz ado oj kmznxmdwz don nxjkz viy
jmbviduvodji ocmjpbc gzbdngvodji rcdxc rjpgy bdqz oj do njhz npxc jaadxdvg
noviydib vn ocvo, ajm zsvhkgz, ja ocz Ivodjivg Mzy Xmjnn.

Rdoc ocznz avxojmn viy ocz xjiodipvixz ja ocz ajmzdbi-nzmqdxz znovwgdnchzio
(yzkvmohziovg, ydkgjhvodx, viy xjinpgvm) pkji ocz cdbc kgviz rczmz do cvn
wzzi kgvxzy wt ocz mzxzio mzjmbviduvodji ocdn Bjqzmihzio rjpgy wz vwmzvno
ja ocz odhzn di ajnozmdib ocz diozmznon ja don ajmzdbi omvyz, viy ocz mzno
hpno wz gzao oj ocz zizmbt viy ziozmkmdnz ja jpm wpndiznn hzi.

DHKMJQZHZIO JA OCZ AJMZDBI NZMQDXZ.

Ocz ziodmz ajmzdbi-nzmqdxz jmbviduvodji dn wzdib dhkmjqzy viy yzqzgjkzy
rdoc znkzxdvg mzbvmy oj ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja ocz xjhhzmxdvg diozmznon ja ocz
xjpiomt. Ocz mvkdy bmjroc ja jpm ajmzdbi omvyz hvfzn do ja ocz pohjno
dhkjmovixz ocvo bjqzmihziovg vbzixdzn ocmjpbc rcdxc ocvo omvyz dn oj wz
vdyzy viy kmjozxozy ncjpgy kjnnznn v cdbc yzbmzz ja zaadxdzixt. Ijo jigt
ncjpgy ocz ajmzdbi mzkmznziovodqzn wz hvdiovdizy pkji v bzizmjpn nxvgz di
nj avm vn nvgvmdzn viy znovwgdnchzion vmz xjixzmizy, wpo ocz nzgzxodji viy
vyqvixzhzio ja jaadxzmn ncjpgy wz yzadidozgt viy kzmhviziogt mzbpgvozy wt
gvr nj ocvo ocz nzmqdxz ncvgg ijo avdg oj voomvxo hzi ja cdbc xcvmvxozm viy
vwdgdot. Ocz zskzmdzixz ja ocz kvno azr tzvmn rdoc v kvmodvg vkkgdxvodji ja
xdqdg-nzmqdxz mpgzn oj ocz Ydkgjhvodx viy Xjinpgvm Nzmqdxz gzvqzn ij yjpwo
di ht hdiy ja ocz rdnyjh ja v rdyzm viy hjmz kzmhvizio zsozindji ja ocjnz
kmdixdkgzn oj wjoc wmvixczn ja ocz ajmzdbi nzmqdxz. Ocz hzi nzgzxozy ajm
vkkjdiohzio wt hzvin ja ocz zsdnodib zszxpodqz mzbpgvodjin cvqz wzzi ja v
avm cdbczm vqzmvbz ja diozggdbzixz viy vwdgdot ocvi ocz hzi vkkjdiozy
wzajmz ocz mzbpgvodjin rzmz kmjhpgbvozy. Hjmzjqzm, ocz azzgdib ocvo piyzm
ocz zsdnodib mpgzn oczmz dn mzvnjivwgz cjkz ajm kzmhvizixz ja ozipmz ypmdib
bjjy wzcvqdjm viy ajm kmjhjodji ajm hzmdojmdjpn nzmqdxz cvn nzmqzy oj wmdib
vwjpo v uzvgjpn vxodqdot di ocz diozmznon ja ocz xjpiomt, rcdxc izqzm
wzajmz zsdnozy jm xjpgy zsdno. Do dn ht zvmizno xjiqdxodji ocvo ocz
zivxohzio dioj gvr ja ocz bzizmvg kmdixdkgzn ja ocz zsdnodib mzbpgvodjin
xvi ijo avdg oj zaazxo apmoczm dhkmjqzhzio di wjoc wmvixczn ja ocz ajmzdbi
nzmqdxz wt kmjqdydib bmzvozm diypxzhzio ajm tjpib hzi ja xcvmvxozm viy
vwdgdot oj nzzf v xvmzzm vwmjvy di ocz nzmqdxz ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, viy vi
dixziodqz oj ocjnz vgmzvyt di ocz nzmqdxz oj kpo ajmoc bmzvozm zaajmon oj
voovdi ocz cdbc noviyvmyn rcdxc ocz npxxznnapg xjiypxo ja jpm diozmivodjivg
mzgvodjin viy xjhhzmxz mzlpdmzn.

D oczmzajmz vbvdi xjhhziy oj ocz avqjmvwgz vxodji ja ocz Xjibmznn ocz
zivxohzio ja v gvr vkkgtdib oj ocz ydkgjhvodx viy xjinpgvm nzmqdxz ocz
kmdixdkgzn zhwjydzy di nzxodji 1753 ja ocz Mzqdnzy Novopozn ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, di ocz xdqdg-nzmqdxz vxo ja Evipvmt 16, 1883, viy ocz Zszxpodqz
jmyzmn ja Epiz 27, 1906, viy ja Ijqzhwzm 26, 1909. Di don xjindyzmvodji ja
ocdn dhkjmovio npwezxo D yzndmz oj mzxvgg oj ocz vooziodji ja ocz Xjibmznn
ocz qzmt avqjmvwgz mzkjmo hvyz ji ocz Gjryzi wdgg ajm ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja
ocz ajmzdbi nzmqdxz wt ocz Ajmzdbi Vaavdmn Xjhhdoozz ja ocz Cjpnz ja
Mzkmznziovodqzn. Vqvdgvwgz novodnodxn ncjr ocz nomdxoiznn rdoc rcdxc ocz
hzmdo ntnozh cvn wzzi vkkgdzy oj ocz ajmzdbi nzmqdxz ypmdib mzxzio tzvmn
viy ocz vwnjgpoz ijikvmodnvi nzgzxodji ja xjinpgn viy ydkgjhvodx-nzmqdxz
nzxmzovmdzn rcj, diyzzy, avm amjh wzdib nzgzxozy rdoc vit qdzr oj kjgdodxvg
xjindyzmvodji, cvqz vxopvggt wzzi xcjnzi oj v ydnkmjkjmodjivoz zsozio amjh
Novozn rcdxc rjpgy cvqz wzzi pimzkmznziozy di ocz ajmzdbi nzmqdxz piyzm ocz
ntnozh rcdxc do dn oj wz cjkzy dn ijr kzmhviziogt jwnjgzoz. Njhz
gzbdngvodji ajm ocz kzmkzopvodji ja ocz kmznzio ntnozh ja zsvhdivodjin viy
kmjhjodjin pkji hzmdo viy zaadxdzixt rjpgy wz ja bmzvozno qvgpz oj jpm
xjhhzmxdvg viy diozmivodjivg diozmznon.

KVMO DDD.

OCZ RCDOZ CJPNZ, Yzxzhwzm 20, 1911. Oj ocz Nzivoz viy Cjpnz ja
Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Di ht viipvg hznnvbz oj Xjibmznn, Yzxzhwzm, 1909, D novozy ocvo piyzm
nzxodji 2 ja ocz vxo ja Vpbpno 5, 1909, D cvy vkkjdiozy v Ovmdaa Wjvmy ja
ocmzz hzhwzmn oj xjjkzmvoz rdoc ocz Novoz Yzkvmohzio di ocz vyhdidnomvodji
ja ocz hvsdhph viy hdidhph xgvpnz ja ocvo vxo, oj hvfz v bgjnnvmt jm
zixtxgjkzydv ja ocz zsdnodib ovmdaa nj vn oj mziyzm don ozmhn diozggdbdwgz
oj ocz jmydivmt mzvyzm, viy oczi oj diqznodbvoz diypnomdvg xjiydodjin viy
xjnon ja kmjypxodji vo cjhz viy vwmjvy rdoc v qdzr oj yzozmhdidib oj rcvo
zsozio zsdnodib ovmdaa mvozn vxopvggt zszhkgdat ocz kmjozxodqz kmdixdkgz,
qdu., ocvo ypodzn ncjpgy wz hvyz vyzlpvoz, viy jigt vyzlpvoz, oj zlpvgduz
ocz ydaazmzixz di xjno ja kmjypxodji vo cjhz viy vwmjvy.

D apmoczm novozy ocvo D wzgdzqzy ocznz diqznodbvodjin rjpgy wz ja bmzvo
qvgpz vn v wvndn ajm vxxpmvoz gzbdngvodji, viy ocvo D ncjpgy amjh odhz oj
odhz mzxjhhziy oj Xjibmznn ocz mzqdndji ja xzmovdi nxczypgzn di vxxjmyvixz
rdoc ocz adiydibn ja ocz Wjvmy.

Di ocz gvno nznndji ja ocz Ndsot-admno Xjibmznn v wdgg xmzvodib v kzmhvizio
Ovmdaa Wjvmy ja adqz hzhwzmn, ja rcjh ijo hjmz ocvi ocmzz ncjpgy wz ja ocz
nvhz kjgdodxvg kvmot, kvnnzy zvxc Cjpnz, wpo avdgzy ja zivxohzio wzxvpnz ja
ngdbco ydaazmzixzn ji rcdxc vbmzzhzio rvn ijo mzvxczy wzajmz vyejpmihzio.
Vi vkkmjkmdvodji vxo kmjqdyzy ocvo ocz kzmhvizio Ovmdaa Wjvmy, da xmzvozy
wt novopoz, ncjpgy mzkjmo oj Xjibmznn ji Nxczypgz F di Yzxzhwzm, 1911.

Oczmzajmz, oj xvmmt jpo nj avm vn gvt rdocdi ht kjrzm ocz kpmkjnzn ja ocdn
wdgg ajm v kzmhvizio Ovmdaa Wjvmy, D vkkjdiozy di Hvmxc, 1911, v wjvmy ja
adqz, vyydib orj hzhwzmn ja npxc kvmot vaadgdvodji vn rjpgy cvqz apgadggzy
ocz novopojmt mzlpdmzhzio, viy ydmzxozy oczh oj hvfz v mzkjmo oj hz ji
Nxczypgz F ja ocz ovmdaa vxo di Yzxzhwzm ja ocdn tzvm.

Di ht hznnvbz ja Vpbpno 17, 1911, vxxjhkvitdib ocz qzoj ja ocz rjjg wdgg, D
nvdy ocvo, di ht epybhzio, Nxczypgz F ncjpgy wz mzqdnzy viy ocz mvozn
mzypxzy. Ht qzoj rvn wvnzy ji ocz bmjpiy ocvo, ndixz ocz Ovmdaa Wjvmy rjpgy
hvfz, di Yzxzhwzm, v yzovdgzy mzkjmo ji rjjg viy rjjg hvipavxopmzn, rdoc
nkzxdvg mzazmzixz oj ocz mzgvodji ja ocz zsdnodib mvozn ja ypodzn oj
mzgvodqz xjnon czmz viy vwmjvy, kpwgdx kjgdxt viy v avdm mzbvmy oj ocz
diozmznon ja ocz kmjypxzmn viy ocz hvipavxopmzmn ji ocz jiz cviy viy ja ocz
xjinphzmn ji ocz joczm yzhviyzy ocvo gzbdngvodji ncjpgy ijo wz cvnodgt
zivxozy di ocz vwnzixz ja npxc diajmhvodji; ocvo D rvn ijo htnzga kjnnznnzy
vo ocvo odhz ja vyzlpvoz fijrgzybz ja ocz avxon oj yzozmhdiz rczoczm jm ijo
ocz kmjkjnzy vxo rvn di vxxjmy rdoc ht kgzybz oj npkkjmo v avdm viy
mzvnjivwgz kmjozxodqz kjgdxt; ocvo npxc gzbdngvodji hdbco kmjqz jigt
ozhkjmvmt viy diagdxo pkji v bmzvo diypnomt ocz zqdgn ja xjiodipzy
pixzmovdiot.

D ijr czmzrdoc npwhdo v mzkjmo ja ocz Ovmdaa Wjvmy ji Nxczypgz F. Ocz wjvmy
dn pividhjpn di don adiydibn. Ji ocz wvndn ja ocznz adiydibn D ijr
mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz Xjibmznn kmjxzzy oj v xjindyzmvodji ja ocdn nxczypgz
rdoc v qdzr oj don mzqdndji viy v bzizmvg mzypxodji ja don mvozn.

Ocz mzkjmo ncjrn ocvo ocz kmznzio hzocjy ja vnnznndib ocz ypot ji mvr
Rjjg--ocdn dn, wt v nkzxdadx mvoz ji ocz bmzvnz kjpiy (d. z., pinxjpmzy)
--jkzmvozn oj zsxgpyz rjjgn ja cdbc ncmdifvbz di nxjpmdib wpo adiz lpvgdot
amjh ocz Vhzmdxvi hvmfzo viy oczmzwt gznnzin ocz mvibz ja rjjgn vqvdgvwgz
oj ocz yjhznodx hvipavxopmzm; ocvo ocz ypot ji nxjpmzy rjjg Ja 33 xzion kzm
kjpiy dn kmjcdwdojmt viy jkzmvozn oj zsxgpyz ocz dhkjmovodji ja xgzvi,
gjr-kmdxzy ajmzdbi rjjgn ja diazmdjm bmvyzn, rcdxc vmz izqzmoczgznn
qvgpvwgz hvozmdvg ajm hvipavxopmdib, viy rcdxc xvi ijo wz dhkjmozy di ocz
bmzvnz wzxvpnz ja oczdm czvqt ncmdifvbz. Npxc rjjgn, da dhkjmozy, hdbco wz
pnzy oj ydnkgvxz ocz xczvk npwnodopozn ijr di pnz.

Oj hvfz ocz kmzxzydib kvmvbmvkc v gdoogz kgvdizm, ovfz ocz dinovixz ja v
cpiymzy kjpiyn ja admno-xgvnn rjjg dhkjmozy piyzm ocz kmznzio ypot, rcdxc
dn 11 xzion v kjpiy. Ocvo rjpgy hvfz ocz ypot ji ocz cpiymzy kjpiyn $11.
Ocz hzmxcviovwgz kvmo ja ocz rjjg ocpn dhkjmozy dn ocz rzdbco ja ocz rjjg
ja ocdn cpiymzy kjpiyn vaozm nxjpmdib. Da ocz rjjg ncmdifn 80 kzm xzio, vn
njhz rjjgn yj, oczi ocz ypot di npxc v xvnz rjpgy vhjpio oj $11 $11 ji 20
kjpiyn ja nxjpmzy rjjg. Ocdn, ja xjpmnz, rjpgy wz kmjcdwdojmt. Da ocz rjjg
ncmdifn jigt 50 kzm xzio, do rjpgy wz $11 ji 50 kjpiyn ja rjjg, viy ocdn dn
izvm oj ocz vqzmvbz ja ocz bmzvo wpgf ja rjjgn ocvo vmz dhkjmozy amjh
Vpnomvgdv, rcdxc dn ocz kmdixdkvg njpmxz ja jpm dhkjmozy rjjg.

Ocznz ydnxmdhdivodjin xjpgy wz jqzmxjhz wt vnnznndib v ypot di vy qvgjmzh
ozmhn, wpo ocdn hzocjy dn jkzi oj ocz jwezxodji, admno, ocvo do dixmzvnzn
vyhdidnomvodqz ydaadxpgodzn viy oziyn oj yzxmzvnz mzqzipz ocmjpbc
piyzmqvgpvodji; viy, nzxjiy, ocvo vn kmdxzn vyqvixz, ocz vy qvgjmzh mvoz
dixmzvnzn ocz ypot kzm kjpiy vo ocz odhz rczi ocz xjinphzm hjno izzyn
mzgdza viy ocz kmjypxzm xvi wzno noviy xjhkzododji; rcdgz da kmdxzn yzxgdiz
ocz ypot dn yzxmzvnzy vo ocz odhz rczi ocz xjinphzm dn gzvno wpmyzizy wt
ocz kmdxz viy ocz kmjypxzm hjno izzyn kmjozxodji.

Vijoczm hzocjy ja hzzodib ocz ydaadxpgot ja ovsdib ocz bmzvnz kjpiy dn oj
vnnznn v nkzxdadx ypot ji bmzvnz rjjg di ozmhn ja don nxjpmzy xjiozio. Ocdn
jwqdvozn ocz xcdza zqdg ja ocz kmznzio ntnozh, ivhzgt, ocz ydnxmdhdivodji
ypz oj ydaazmzio ncmdifvbzn, viy oczmzwt oziyn bmzvogt oj zlpvgduz ocz
ypot. Ocz wjvmy mzkjmon ocvo ocdn hzocjy dn azvndwgz di kmvxodxz viy xjpgy
wz vyhdidnozmzy rdocjpo bmzvo zskzinz. Ocz nxjpmzy xjiozio ja ocz rjjg dn
ocz wvndn ji rcdxc pnzmn ja rjjg hvfz oczdm xvgxpgvodjin, viy v ypot ja
ocdn fdiy rjpgy ado ocz pnvbzn ja ocz omvyz. Jiz zaazxo ja ocdn hzocjy ja
vnnznnhzio rjpgy wz ocvo, mzbvmygznn ja ocz mvoz ja ypot, oczmz rjpgy wz
vi dixmzvnz di ocz npkkgt viy qvmdzot ja rjjg wt hvfdib vqvdgvwgz oj ocz
Vhzmdxvi hvmfzo rjjgn ja wjoc gjr viy adiz lpvgdot ijr zsxgpyzy.

Ocz mzkjmo ncjrn di yzovdg ocz ydaadxpgodzn diqjgqzy di voozhkodib oj novoz
di xvozbjmdxvg ozmhn ocz xjno ja rjjg kmjypxodji viy ocz bmzvo ydaazmzixzn
di xjno vn wzorzzi ydaazmzio mzbdjin viy ydaazmzio otkzn ja rjjg. Do dn
ajpiy, cjrzqzm, ocvo, ovfdib vgg qvmdzodzn di vxxjpio, ocz vqzmvbz xjno ja
kmjypxodji ajm ocz rcjgz Vhzmdxvi xgdk dn cdbczm ocvi ocz xjno di ocz xcdza
xjhkzodib xjpiomt wt vi vhjpio njhzrcvo gznn ocvi ocz kmznzio ypot.

Ocz mzkjmo ncjrn ocvo ocz ypodzn ji rjjgn, rjjg rvnozn, viy ncjyyt, rcdxc
vmz vyepnozy oj ocz mvoz Ja 33 xzion ji nxjpmzy rjjg vmz kmjcdwdojmt di ocz
nvhz hzvnpmz ocvo ocz ypot ji nxjpmzy rjjg dn kmjcdwdojmt. Di bzizmvg, oczt
vmz vnnznnzy vo mvozn vn cdbc vn, jm cdbczm ocvi, ocz ypodzn kvdy ji ocz
xgzvi xjiozio ja rjjgn vxopvggt dhkjmozy. Oczt ncjpgy wz mzypxzy viy nj
vyepnozy oj ocz mvoz ji rjjg vn oj wzvm oczdm kmjkzm kmjkjmodji oj ocz mzvg
mvoz gzqdzy ji ocz vxopvg rjjg dhkjmon.

Ocz ypodzn ji hvit xgvnnzn ja rjjg hvipavxopmz vmz kmjcdwdojmt viy bmzvogt
di zsxznn ja ocz ydaazmzixz di xjno ja kmjypxodji czmz viy vwmjvy.

Ocdn dn ompz ja ojkn, ja tvmin (rdoc ocz zsxzkodji ja rjmnozy tvmin ja v
qzmt cdbc bmvyz), viy ja gjr viy hzydph bmvyz xgjoc ja czvqt rzdbco.

Ji ojkn pk oj 52 xzion v kjpiy di qvgpz, viy ji tvmin ja 65 xzion di qvgpz,
ocz mvoz dn 100 kzm xzio rdoc xjmmznkjiydibgt cdbczm mvozn ajm gjrzm
qvgpzn. Ji xczvk viy hzydph bmvyz xgjocn, ocz zsdnodib mvozn amzlpziogt mpi
oj 150 kzm xzio viy ji njhz xczvk bjjyn oj jqzm 200 kzm xzio. Ocdn dn
gvmbzgt ypz oj ocvo kvmo ja ocz ypot rcdxc dn gzqdzy jnozindwgt oj
xjhkzinvoz ocz hvipavxopmzm ajm ocz zicvixzy xjno ja cdn mvr hvozmdvg ypz
oj ocz ypot ji rjjg. Vn v hvoozm ja avxo, ocdn xjhkzinvojmt ypot, ajm
iphzmjpn xgvnnzn ja bjjyn, dn hpxc di zsxznn ja ocz vhjpio izzyzy ajm
nomdxo xjhkzinvodji.

Ji ocz joczm cviy, ocz adiydibn ncjr ocvo ocz ypodzn rcdxc mpi oj npxc cdbc
vy qvgjmzh zlpdqvgzion vmz kmjcdwdojmt, ndixz ocz bjjyn vmz ijo dhkjmozy,
wpo ocvo ocz kmdxzn ja yjhznodx avwmdxn vmz ijo mvdnzy wt ocz apgg vhjpio
ja ypot. Ji v nzo ja 1-tvmy nvhkgzn ja 16 Zibgdnc avwmdxn, rcdxc vmz
xjhkgzozgt zsxgpyzy wt ocz kmznzio ovmdaa mvozn, do rvn ajpiy ocvo ocz
ojovg ajmzdbi qvgpz rvn $41.84; ocz ypodzn rcdxc rjpgy cvqz wzzi vnnznnzy
cvy ocznz avwmdxn wzzi dhkjmozy, $76.90; ocz ajmzdbi qvgpz kgpn ocz vhjpio
ja ocz ypot, $118.74; jm v ijhdivg ypot ja 183 kzm xzio. Di avxo, cjrzqzm,
kmvxodxvggt dyziodxvg avwmdxn ja yjhznodx hvfz njgy vo ocz nvhz odhz vo
$69.75, ncjrdib vi zicvixzy kmdxz jqzm ocz ajmzdbi hvmfzo qvgpz ja wpo 67
kzm xzio.

Vgocjpbc ocznz ypodzn yj ijo dixmzvnz kmdxzn ja yjhznodx bjjyn wt vitocdib
gdfz oczdm apgg vhjpio, do dn ijiz ocz gznn ompz ocvo npxc kmjcdwdodqz
ypodzn zgdhdivoz ocz kjnndwdgdot ja ajmzdbi xjhkzododji, zqzi di odhz ja
nxvmxdot; ocvo oczt ajmh v ozhkovodji oj hjijkjgt viy xjinkdmvxdzn oj
xjiomjg yjhznodx kmdxzn; ocvo oczt vmz hpxc di zsxznn ja ocz ydaazmzixz di
xjno ja kmjypxodji czmz viy vwmjvy, viy ocvo oczt ncjpgy wz mzypxzy oj v
kjdio rcdxc vxxjmyn rdoc ocdn kmdixdkgz.

Ocz adiydibn ja ocz wjvmy ncjr ocvo di ocdn diypnomt ocz vxopvg
hvipavxopmdib xjno, vndyz amjh ocz lpznodji ja ocz kmdxz ja hvozmdvgn, dn
hpxc cdbczm di ocdn xjpiomt ocvi do dn vwmjvy; ocvo di ocz hvfdib ja tvmi
viy xgjoc ocz yjhznodx rjjgzi jm rjmnozy hvipavxopmzm cvn di bzizmvg ij
vyqviovbz di ocz ajmh ja npkzmdjm hvxcdizmt jm hjmz zaadxdzio gvwjm oj
jaanzo ocz cdbczm rvbzn kvdy di ocdn xjpiomt Ocz adiydibn ncjr ocvo ocz
xjno ja opmidib rjjg dioj tvmi di ocdn xjpiomt dn vwjpo yjpwgz ocvo di ocz
gzvydib xjhkzodib xjpiomt, viy ocvo ocz xjno ja opmidib tvmi dioj xgjoc dn
njhzrcvo hjmz ocvi yjpwgz. Piyzm ocz kmjozxodqz kjgdxt v bmzvo diypnomt,
diqjgqdib ocz rzgavmz ja cpiymzyn ja ocjpnviyn ja kzjkgz, cvn wzzi
znovwgdnczy yznkdoz ocznz cviydxvkn.

Di mzxjhhziydib mzqdndji viy mzypxodji, D oczmzajmz pmbz ocvo vxodji wz
ovfzi rdoc ocznz avxon di hdiy, oj ocz ziy ocvo vi dhkjmovio viy
znovwgdnczy diypnomt hvt ijo wz ezjkvmyduzy.

Ocz Ovmdaa Wjvmy mzkjmon ocvo ij zlpdovwgz hzocjy cvn wzzi ajpiy oj, gzqt
kpmzgt nkzxdadx ypodzn ji rjjgzi viy rjmnozy avwmdxn viy ocvo, zsxzkodib
ajm v xjhkzinvojmt ypot, ocz mvoz hpno wz vy qvgjmzh ji npxc hvipavxopmzn.
Do dn dhkjmovio oj mzvgduz, cjrzqzm, ocvo ij agvo vy qvgjmzh mvoz ji npxc
avwmdxn xvi wz hvyz oj rjmf avdmgt viy zaazxodqzgt. Vit ndibgz mvoz rcdxc
dn cdbc zijpbc oj zlpvgduz ocz ydaazmzixz di hvipavxopmdib xjno vo cjhz viy
vwmjvy ji cdbcgt adidnczy bjjyn diqjgqdib npxc gvwjm rjpgy wz kmjcdwdojmt
ji xczvkzm bjjyn, di rcdxc ocz gvwjm xjno dn v nhvggzm kmjkjmodji ja ocz
ojovg qvgpz. Xjiqzmnzgt, v mvoz jigt vyzlpvoz oj zlpvgduz ocdn ydaazmzixz
ji xczvkzm bjjyn rjpgy mzhjqz kmjozxodji amjh ocz adiz-bjjyn hvipavxopmz,
ocz dixmzvnz di rcdxc cvn wzzi jiz ja ocz nomdfdib azvopmzn ja ocz omvyz'n
yzqzgjkhzio di mzxzio tzvmn. D oczmzajmz mzxjhhziy ocvo di vit mzqdndji ocz
dhkjmovixz ja v bmvypvozy nxvgz ja vy qvgjmzh ypodzn ji xgjocn wz xvmzapggt
xjindyzmzy viy vkkgdzy.

D qziopmz oj nvt ocvo ij gzbdngvodqz wjyt cvn zqzm cvy kmznziozy oj do v
hjmz xjhkgzoz viy zscvpnodqz mzkjmo ocvi ocdn ji nj ydaadxpgo viy
xjhkgdxvozy v npwezxo vn ocz mzgvodqz xjnon ja rjjg viy rjjgzin ocz rjmgy
jqzm. Do dn v hjiphzio oj ocz ocjmjpbciznn, diypnomt, dhkvmodvgdot, viy
vxxpmvxt ja ocz hzi zibvbzy di don hvfdib. Oczt rzmz xcjnzi amjh wjoc
kjgdodxvg kvmodzn wpo cvqz vggjrzy ij kvmodnvi nkdmdo oj kmjhko jm xjiomjg
oczdm dilpdmdzn. Oczt vmz pividhjpn di oczdm adiydibn. D azzg npmz ocvo
vaozm ocz mzkjmo cvn wzzi kmdiozy viy nopydzy ocz qvgpz ja npxc v
xjhkziydph ja zsvxo fijrgzybz di mznkzxo oj ocdn nxczypgz ja ocz ovmdaa
rdgg xjiqdixz vgg ja ocz rdnyjh ja hvfdib npxc v wjvmy kzmhvizio di jmyzm
ocvo do hvt omzvo zvxc nxczypgz ja ocz ovmdaa vn do cvn omzvozy ocdn, viy
oczi fzzk don wpmzvp ja diajmhvodji pk oj yvoz rdoc xpmmzio xcvibzn di ocz
zxjijhdx rjmgy.

Do dn ij kvmo ja ocz apixodji ja ocz Ovmdaa Wjvmy oj kmjkjnz mvozn ja ypot.
Oczdm apixodji dn hzmzgt oj kmznzio adiydibn ja avxo ji rcdxc mvozn ja ypot
hvt wz avdmgt yzozmhdizy di ocz gdbco ja vyzlpvoz fijrgzybz di vxxjmy rdoc
ocz zxjijhdx kjgdxt oj wz ajggjrzy. Ocdn dn rcvo ocz kmznzio mzkjmo yjzn.

Ocz adiydibn ja avxo wt ocz wjvmy ncjr vhkgz mzvnji ajm ocz mzqdndji
yjrirvmy ja Nxczypgz F, di vxxjmy rdoc ocz kmjozxodqz kmdixdkgz, viy
kmznzio ocz yvov vn oj mzgvodqz xjnon viy kmdxzn amjh rcdxc hvt wz
yzozmhdizy rcvo mvozn rdgg avdmgt zlpvgduz ocz ydaazmzixz di kmjypxodji
xjnon. D mzxjhhziy ocvo npxc mzqdndji wz kmjxzzyzy rdoc vo jixz.

KVMO DQ.

OCZ RCDOZ CJPNZ, Yzxzhwzm 21, 1911. Oj ocz Nzivoz viy Cjpnz ja
Mzkmznziovodqzn:

Ocz adivixdvg xjiydodji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio, vn ncjri vo ocz xgjnz ja ocz
gvno adnxvg tzvm, Epiz 30, 1911, rvn qzmt nvodnavxojmt. Ocz jmydivmt
mzxzdkon dioj ocz bzizmvg apiy, zsxgpydib kjnovg mzqzipzn, vhjpiozy oj
$701,372,374.99, viy ocz ydnwpmnzhzion amjh ocz bzizmvg apiy ajm xpmmzio
zskzinzn viy xvkdovg jpogvtn, zsxgpydib kjnovg viy Kvivhv Xvivg
ydnwpmnzhzion, dixgpydib ocz diozmzno ji ocz kpwgdx yzwo, vhjpiozy oj
$654,137,907-89, gzvqdib v npmkgpn Ja $47,234,377.10.

Ocz kjnovg mzqzipz mzxzdkon vhjpiozy oj $237,879,823,60, rcdgz ocz kvthzion
hvyz ajm ocz kjnovg nzmqdxz amjh ocz kjnovg mzqzipzn vhjpiozy oj
$237,660,705.48, rcdxc gzao v npmkgpn ja kjnovg mzxzdkon jqzm ydnwpmnzhzion
Ja $219,118.12, ocz admno odhz di 27 tzvmn di rcdxc v npmkgpn jxxpmmzy.

Ocz diozmzno-wzvmdib yzwo ja ocz Pidozy Novozn Epiz 30, 1911, vhjpiozy oj
$915,353,190. Ocz yzwo ji rcdxc diozmzno cvy xzvnzy vhjpiozy oj
$1,879,830.26, viy ocz yzwo wzvmdib ij diozmzno, dixgpydib bmzziwvxfn,
ivodjivg wvif ijozn oj wz mzyzzhzy, viy amvxodjivg xpmmzixt, vhjpiozy oj
$386,751,917-43, jm v ojovg ja diozmzno viy ijidiozmzno wzvmdib yzwo
vhjpiodib oj $1,303,984,937.69.

Ocz vxopvg ydnwpmnzhzion, zsxgpndqz ja ocjnz ajm ocz Kvivhv Xvivg viy ajm
ocz kjnovg nzmqdxz ajm ocz tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1911, rzmz $654,137,997.89.
Ocz vxopvg ydnwpmnzhzion ajm ocz tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1910, zsxgpndqz ja
ocz Kvivhv Xvivg viy ocz kjnovg nzmqdxz ydnwpmnzhzion, rzmz
$659,705,391.08, hvfdib v yzxmzvnz Ja $5,567,393.19 di tzvmgt zskziydopmzn
di ocz tzvm 1911 piyzm ocvo ja 1910. Ajm ocz tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1912, ocz
znodhvozy mzxzdkon, zsxgpndqz ja ocz kjnovg mzqzipzn, vmz $666,000,000,
rcdgz ocz ojovg znodhvozn, zsxgpndqz ja ocjnz ajm ocz Kvivhv Xvivg viy ocz
kjnovg zskziydopmzn kvtvwgz amjh ocz kjnovg mzqzipzn, vhjpio oj
$645,842,799.34. Ocdn dn v yzxmzvnz di ocz 1912 znodhvozn amjh ocvo ja ocz
1911 znodhvozn ja $1,534,367-22.

Ajm ocz tzvm ziydib Epiz 30, 1913, ocz znodhvozy mzxzdkon, zsxgpndqz ja ocz
kjnovg mzqzipzn, vmz $667,000,000, rcdgz ocz ojovg znodhvozy
vkkmjkmdvodjin, zsxgpndqz ja ocz Kvivhv Xvivg viy kjnovg ydnwpmnzhzion
kvtvwgz amjh kjnovg mzqzipzn, rdgg vhjpio oj $637,920,803.35. Ocdn dn v
yzxmzvnz di ocz 1913 znodhvozn amjh ocvo ja ocz 1912 znodhvozn ja
$7,921,995.99.

Vn oj ocz kjnovg mzqzipzn, ocz zskvindji ja ocz wpndiznn di ocvo
yzkvmohzio, ocz ijmhvg dixmzvnz di ocz Kjno Jaadxz viy ocz zsozindji ja ocz
nzmqdxz, rdgg dixmzvnz ocz jpogvt oj ocz nph Ja $260,938,463; wpo vn ocz
yzkvmohzio rvn nzga-npnovdidib ocdn tzvm ocz Kjnohvnozm Bzizmvg dn vnnpmzy
ocvo izso tzvm ocz mzxzdkon rdgg vo gzvno zlpvg ocz zskziydopmzn, viy
kmjwvwgt zsxzzy oczh wt hjmz ocvi ocz npmkgpn ja ocdn tzvm. Do dn avdm viy
zlpdovwgz, oczmzajmz, di yzozmhdidib ocz zxjijht rdoc rcdxc ocz Bjqzmihzio
cvn wzzi mpi, oj zsxgpyz ocz omvinvxodjin ja v yzkvmohzio gdfz ocz Kjno
Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio, rcdxc mzgdzn ajm don npkkjmo pkji don mzxzdkon. Di
xvgxpgvodjin czmzojajmz hvyz ajm xjhkvmdnji ja zxjijht di zvxc tzvm, do cvn
wzzi ocz kmjkzm xpnojh jigt oj dixgpyz di ocz novozhzio ocz yzadxdo di ocz
Kjno Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio rcdxc rvn kvdy jpo ja ocz Omzvnpmt.

V xvgxpgvodji ja ocz vxopvg dixmzvnz di ocz zskzinzn ja Bjqzmihzio vmdndib
amjh ocz dixmzvnz di ocz kjkpgvodji viy ocz bzizmvg zskvindji ja
bjqzmihziovg apixodjin, zsxzko ocjnz ja ocz Kjno Jaadxz, ajm v iphwzm ja
tzvmn ncjrn v ijmhvg dixmzvnz ja vwjpo 4 kzm xzio v tzvm. Wt ydmzxodib ocz
zszmxdnz ja bmzvo xvmz oj fzzk yjri ocz zskzinzn viy ocz znodhvozn rz cvqz
npxxzzyzy di mzypxdib ocz ojovg ydnwpmnzhzion zvxc tzvm.

OCZ XMZYDO JA OCZ PIDOZY NOVOZN.

Ocz xmzydo ja ocdn Bjqzmihzio rvn ncjri oj wz wzoozm ocvi ocvo ja vit joczm
Bjqzmihzio wt ocz nvgz ja ocz Kvivhv Xvivg 3 kzm xzio wjiyn. Ocznz wjiyn
ydy ijo bdqz oczdm jrizmn ocz kmdqdgzbz ja pndib oczh vn v wvndn ajm
wvif-ijoz xdmxpgvodji, ijm rvn oczmz vit joczm kmdqdgzbz zsoziyzy oj oczh
rcdxc rjpgy vaazxo oczdm bzizmvg hvmfzo qvgpz. Oczdm nvgz, oczmzajmz,
hzvnpmzy ocz xmzydo ja ocz Bjqzmihzio. Ocz kmzhdph rcdxc rvn mzvgduzy pkji
ocz wjiyn hvyz ocz vxopvg diozmzno mvoz ja ocz omvinvxodji 2.909 kzm xzio.

ZAADXDZIXT VIY ZXJIJHT DI OCZ OMZVNPMT YZKVMOHZIO.

D Di ocz Omzvnpmt Yzkvmohzio ocz zaadxdzixt viy zxjijht rjmf cvn wzzi fzko
nozvydgt pk. Kmjqdndji dn hvyz ajm ocz zgdhdivodji ja 134 kjndodjin ypmdib
ocz xjhdib tzvm. Orj cpiymzy viy ndsot-nzqzi novopojmt kjndodjin rzmz
zgdhdivozy ypmdib ocz gvno tzvm di ocz jaadxz ja ocz Omzvnpmt di
Rvncdiboji, viy 141 kjndodjin di ocz tzvm 1910, hvfdib vi zgdhdivodji Ja
542 novopojmt kjndodjin ndixz Hvmxc 4, 1909; viy ocdn cvn wzzi yjiz rdocjpo
ocz ydnxcvmbz ja vitwjyt, wzxvpnz ocz ijmhvg mzndbivodjin viy yzvocn cvqz
wzzi zlpvg oj ocz zgdhdivodji ja ocz kgvxzn, v ntnozh ja omvinazmn cvqdib
ovfzi xvmz ja ocz kzmnjin rcjnz kjndodjin rzmz ymjkkzy jpo. Di ocz adzgy
nzmqdxz da ocz yzkvmohzio, ojj, 1,259 kjndodjin cvqz wzzi zgdhdivozy yjri
oj ocz kmznzio odhz, hvfdib v ojovg izo mzypxodji ja vgg Omzvnpmt kjndodjin
oj ocz iphwzm ja 1,801. Hzviodhz ocz zaadxdzixt ja ocz rjmf ja ocz
yzkvmohzio cvn dixmzvnzy.

HJIZOVMT MZAJMH.

V hvoozm ja admno dhkjmovixz ocvo rdgg xjhz wzajmz Xjibmznn ajm vxodji vo
ocdn nznndji dn hjizovmt mzajmh. Ocz Xjibmznn cvn donzga vmmvibzy vi zvmgt
diomjypxodji ja ocdn bmzvo lpznodji ocmjpbc ocz mzkjmo ja don Hjizovmt
Xjhhdnndji. Ocdn xjhhdnndji rvn vkkjdiozy oj mzxjhhziy v njgpodji ja ocz
wvifdib viy xpmmzixt kmjwgzhn nj gjib xjiamjiodib ocz Ivodji viy oj apmidnc
ocz avxon viy yvov izxznnvmt oj zivwgz ocz Xjibmznn oj ovfz vxodji. Ocz
xjhhdnndji rvn vkkjdiozy rczi vi dhkmznndqz viy pmbzio kjkpgvm yzhviy ajm
gzbdngvodqz mzgdza npyyzigt vmjnz jpo ja ocz ydnomznndib ndopvodji ja ocz
kzjkgz xvpnzy wt ocz yzkgjmvwgz kvidx ja 1907. Ocz Xjibmznn yzxdyzy ocvo
rcdgz do xjpgy ijo bdqz dhhzydvozgt ocz mzgdza mzlpdmzy, do rjpgy kmjqdyz v
xjhhdnndji oj apmidnc ocz hzvin ajm kmjhko vxodji vo v gvozm yvoz.

Di jmyzm oj yj don rjmf rdoc ocjmjpbciznn viy kmzxdndji ocdn xjhhdnndji cvn
ovfzi njhz odhz oj hvfz don mzkjmo. Ocz xjpiomt dn piyjpwozygt cjkdib ajm
vn kmjhko vxodji ji ocz mzkjmo vn ocz xjiqzidzixz ja ocz Xjibmznn xvi
kzmhdo. Ocz mzxjbidodji ja ocz bmjnn dhkzmazxodjin viy hvmfzy divyzlpvxt ja
jpm wvifdib viy xpmmzixt ntnozh zqzi di jpm hjno lpdzo adivixdvg kzmdjyn dn
ja gjib noviydib; viy gvozm oczmz cvn hvopmzy v mzxjbidodji ja ocz avxo
ocvo jpm ntnozh dn mznkjindwgz ajm ocz zsomvjmydivmt yzqvnovodji, rvnoz,
viy wpndiznn kvmvgtndn ja jpm mzxpmmdib kzmdjyn ja kvidx. Ocjpbc ocz
hzhwzmn ja ocz Hjizovmt Xjhhdnndji cvqz ajm v xjindyzmvwgz odhz wzzi
rjmfdib di ocz jkzi, viy rcdgz gvmbz iphwzmn ja ocz kzjkgz cvqz wzzi jkzigt
rjmfdib rdoc oczh, viy rcdgz ocz kmznn cvn gvmbzgt ijozy viy ydnxpnnzy ocdn
rjmf vn do cvn kmjxzzyzy, nj ocvo ocz mzkjmo ja ocz xjhhdnndji kmjhdnzn oj
mzkmznzio v ivodjivg hjqzhzio, ocz yzovdgn ja ocz mzkjmo vmz nodgg wzdib
xjindyzmzy. D xvi ijo, oczmzajmz, yj hpxc hjmz vo ocdn odhz ocvi xjhhziy
ocz dhhzinz dhkjmovixz ja hjizovmt mzajmh, pmbz kmjhko xjindyzmvodji viy
vxodji rczi ocz xjhhdnndji'n mzkjmo dn mzxzdqzy, viy zskmznn ht
nvodnavxodji ocvo ocz kgvi oj wz kmjkjnzy kmjhdnzn oj zhwmvxz hvdi azvopmzn
ocvo, cvqdib hzo ocz vkkmjqvg ja v bmzvo kmzkjiyzmvixz ja ocz kmvxodxvg viy
kmjaznndjivg jkdidji ja ocz xjpiomt, vmz gdfzgt oj hzzo zlpvg vkkmjqvg di
Xjibmznn.

Do dn zsxzzydibgt ajmopivoz ocvo ocz rdnz viy piydnkpozy kjgdxt ja
hvdiovdidib pixcvibzy ocz hvdi azvopmzn ja jpm wvifdib ntnozh mziyzmzy do
vo jixz dhkjnndwgz oj diomjypxz v xziomvg wvif; ajm v xziomvg wvif rjpgy
xzmovdigt cvqz wzzi mzndnozy, viy v kgvi dioj rcdxc do xjpgy cvqz wzzi
diomjypxzy rjpgy kmjwvwgt cvqz wzzi yzazvozy. Wpo vn v xziomvg wvif xjpgy
ijo wz v kvmo ja ocz jigt kgvi ydnxpnnzy jm xjindyzmzy, ocvo omjpwgznjhz
lpznodji dn zgdhdivozy. Viy dibzidjpn viy ijqzg vn ocz kmjkjnzy Ivodjivg
Mznzmqz Vnnjxdvodji vkkzvmn, do ndhkgt dn v gjbdxvg jpobmjroc ja rcvo dn
wzno di jpm kmznzio ntnozh, viy dn, di avxo, ocz apgadgghzio ja ocvo
ntnozh.

Zsvxogt cjr ocz hvivbzhzio ja ocvo vnnjxdvodji ncjpgy wz jmbviduzy dn v
lpznodji nodgg jkzi. Do nzzhn oj wz yzndmvwgz ocvo ocz wvifn rcdxc rjpgy
jri ocz vnnjxdvodji ncjpgy di ocz hvdi hvivbz do, Do rdgg wz vi vbzixt ja
ocz wvifn oj vxo ajm oczh, viy oczt xvi wz ompnozy wzoozm ocvi vitwjyt zgnz
xcdzagt oj xjiypxo do. Do dn hvdigt wvifzmn' rjmf. Wpo oczmz hpno wz njhz
ajmh ja Bjqzmihzio npkzmqdndji viy pgodhvoz xjiomjg, viy D avqjm v
mzvnjivwgz mzkmznziovodji ja ocz Bjqzmihzio di ocz hvivbzhzio. D ziozmovdi
ij azvm ja ocz diomjypxodji ja kjgdodxn jm ja vit piyzndmvwgz diagpzixzn
amjh v kmjkzmgt hzvnpmzy Bjqzmihzio mzkmznziovodji.

D ompno ocvo vgg wvifn ja ocz xjpiomt kjnnznndib ocz mzlpdndoz noviyvmyn
rdgg wz kgvxzy pkji v ajjodib ja kzmazxo zlpvgdot ja jkkjmopidot. Wjoc ocz
Ivodjivg ntnozh viy ocz Novoz ntnozh ncjpgy wz avdmgt mzxjbiduzy, gzvqdib
oczh zqziopvggt oj xjvgznxz da ocvo ncvgg kmjqz oj wz oczdm oziyzixt. Wpo
npxc zqjgpodji xvi ijo yzqzgjk dhkvmodvggt da ocz wvifn ja jiz ntnozh vmz
bdqzi jm kzmhdoozy vit vyqviovbzn ja jkkjmopidot jqzm ocjnz ja ocz joczm
ntnozh. Viy D ompno vgnj ocvo ocz izr gzbdngvodji rdgg xvmzapggt viy
xjhkgzozgt kmjozxo viy vnnpmz ocz diydqdypvgdot viy ocz diyzkziyzixz ja
zvxc wvif, oj ocz ziy ocvo vit oziyzixt oczmz hvt zqzm wz ojrvmy v
xjinjgdyvodji ja ocz hjizt jm wvifdib kjrzm ja ocz Ivodji ncvgg wz
yzazvozy.

Do rdgg vgrvtn wz kjnndwgz, ja xjpmnz, oj xjmmzxo vit azvopmzn ja ocz izr
gvr rcdxc hvt di kmvxodxz kmjqz oj wz pirdnz; nj ocvo rcdgz ocdn gvr dn
npmz oj wz zivxozy piyzm xjiydodjin ja pipnpvg fijrgzybz viy vpocjmdot, do
vgnj rdgg dixgpyz, do dn rzgg oj mzhzhwzm, ocz kjnndwdgdot ja apopmz
vhziyhzio.

Rdoc ocz kmznzio kmjnkzxon ja ocdn gjib-vrvdozy mzajmh zixjpmvbdib pn, do
rjpgy wz ndibpgvmgt piajmopivoz da ocdn hjizovmt lpznodji ncjpgy wt vit
xcvixz wzxjhz v kvmot dnnpz. Viy D ndixzmzgt cjkz do rdgg ijo. Ocz
zsxzzydib vhjpio ja xjindyzmvodji do cvn mzxzdqzy amjh ocz kzjkgz ja ocz
Ivodji cvn wzzi rcjggt ijikvmodnvi; viy ocz Xjibmznn nzo don ijikvmodnvi
nzvg pkji do rczi ocz Hjizovmt Xjhhdnndji rvn vkkjdiozy. Di xjhhziydib ocz
lpznodji oj ocz avqjmvwgz xjindyzmvodji ja Xjibmznn, D nkzvf ajm, viy di
ocz nkdmdo ja, ocz bmzvo iphwzm ja ht azggjr xdoduzin rcj rdocjpo vit
ocjpbco ja kvmot jm kvmodnvincdk azzg rdoc mzhvmfvwgz zvmiznoiznn ocvo ocdn
mzajmh dn izxznnvmt oj ocz diozmznon ja vgg ocz kzjkgz.

OCZ RVM YZKVMOHZIO.

Oczmz dn ijr wzajmz Xjibmznn v Ydgg, ocz kpmkjnz ja rcdxc dn oj dixmzvnz
ocz zaadxdzixt viy yzxmzvnz ocz zskzinz ja ocz Vmht. Do xjiovdin ajpm
kmdixdkvg azvopmzn: Admno, v xjinjgdyvodji ja ocz Bzizmvg Novaa rdoc ocz
Vyepovio Bzizmvg'n viy ocz Dinkzxojm Bzizmvg'n Yzkvmohzion; nzxjiy, v
xjinjgdyvodji ja ocz Lpvmozmhvnozm'n Yzkvmohzio rdoc ocz Npwndnozixz viy
ocz Kvt Yzkvmohzion; ocdmy, ocz xmzvodji ja vi Vmht Nzmqdxz Xjmkn; viy
ajpmoc, vi zsozindji ja ocz zigdnohzio kzmdjy amjh ocmzz oj adqz tzvmn.

Rdoc ocz znovwgdnchzio ja vi Vmht Nzmqdxz Xjmkn, vn kmjkjnzy di ocz wdgg, D
vh ocjmjpbcgt di vxxjmy viy vh xjiqdixzy ocvo ocz znovwgdnchzio ja npxc v
xjmkn rdgg mznpgo di v hvozmdvg zxjijht viy v qzmt bmzvo dixmzvnz ja
zaadxdzixt di ocz Vmht. Do cvn mzkzvozygt wzzi mzxjhhziyzy wt hz viy ht
kmzyzxznnjmn. D vgnj wzgdzqz ocvo v xjinjgdyvodji ja ocz Novaa Xjmkn xvi wz
hvyz rdoc v mznpgodib dixmzvnz di zaadxdzixt viy zxjijht, wpo ijo vgjib ocz
gdizn kmjqdyzy di ocz wdgg piyzm xjindyzmvodji.

D vh jkkjnzy oj vit kgvi ocz mznpgo ja rcdxc rjpgy wz oj wmzvf pk jm
diozmazmz rdoc ocz znnziodvg kmdixdkgzn ja ocz yzovdg ntnozh di ocz Novaa
Xjmkn znovwgdnczy wt ocz vxo ja Azwmpvmt 2, 1901, viy D vh jkkjnzy oj vit
kgvi ocz mznpgo ja rcdxc rjpgy wz oj bdqz oj ocz jaadxzm nzgzxozy vn Xcdza
ja Novaa jm oj vit joczm hzhwzm ja ocz Bzizmvg Novaa Xjmkn bmzvozm
kzmhvizixt ja jaadxz ocvi cz ijr cvn. Piyzm ocz zsdnodib gvr izdoczm ocz
Xcdza. ja Novaa ijm vit joczm hzhwzm ja ocz Bzizmvg Novaa Xjmkn xvi mzhvdi
di jaadxz ajm v kzmdjy ja hjmz ocvi ajpm tzvmn, viy oczmz hpno wz vi
diozmqvg ja orj tzvmn wzorzzi npxxznndqz ojpmn ja ypot.

Ocz wdgg mzazmmzy oj kmjqdyzn ocvo xzmovdi kzmnjin ncvgg wzxjhz kzmhvizio
hzhwzmn ja ocz Bzizmvg Novaa Xjmkn, viy ocvo xzmovdi joczmn vmz npwezxo oj
mz-yzovdg rdocjpo vi diozmqvg ja orj tzvmn. Npxc kmjqdndji dn amvpbco rdoc
yvibzm oj ocz rzgavmz ja ocz Vmht, viy rjpgy kmvxodxvggt ipggdat ocz hvdi
kpmkjnz ja ocz gvr xmzvodib ocz [hdnndib ozso].

Di hvfdib ocz xjinjgdyvodjin ij mzypxodji ncjpgy wz hvyz di ocz ojovg
iphwzm ja jaadxzmn ja ocz Vmht, ja rcjh oczmz vmz ijr ojj azr oj kzmajmh
ocz ypodzn dhkjnzy wt gvr. D cvqz di ocz kvno mzxjhhziyzy vi dixmzvnz di
ocz iphwzm ja jaadxzmn wt 600 di jmyzm oj kmjqdyz npaadxdzio jaadxzmn oj
kzmajmh vgg xgvnnzn ja novaa ypot viy oj mzypxz ocz iphwzm ja gdiz jaadxzmn
yzovxczy amjh oczdm xjhhviyn. Xjibmznn vo ocz gvno nznndji dixmzvnzy ocz
ojovg iphwzm ja jaadxzmn wt 200, wpo ocdn dn ijo zijpbc. Kmjhjodji di ocz
gdiz ja ocz Vmht dn ojj ngjr. Jaadxzmn yj ijo voovdi xjhhviy mvif vo vi vbz
zvmgt zijpbc kmjkzmgt oj zszmxdnz do. Do rjpgy wz v hdnovfz apmoczm oj
mzovmy ocdn vgmzvyt ngjr kmjhjodji wt ocmjrdib wvxf dioj ocz gdiz ja ocz
Vmh v iphwzm ja cdbc-mvifdib jaadxzmn oj wz vwnjmwzy vn dn kmjqdyzy di ocz
[hdnndib ozso].

Vijoczm azvopmz ja ocz wdgg rcdxc D wzgdzqz oj wz v hdnovfz dn ocz kmjkjnzy
dixmzvnz di ocz ozmh ja zigdnohzio amjh ocmzz oj adqz zvmn D wzgdzqz do
rjpgy wz wzoozm oj zigdno hzi ajm nds tzvmn, mzgzvnz oczh vo ocz ziy ja
ocmzz tzvmn amjh vxodqz nzmqdxz, viy kpo oczh di mznzmqz ajm ocz mzhvdidib
ocmzz tzvmn. Mzzigdnohzion ncjpgy wz gvmbzgt xjiadizy oj ocz
ijixjhhdnndjizy jaadxzmn viy joczm zigdnozy hzi di ocz nfdggzy bmvyzn. Ocdn
kgvi wt ocz kvthzio ja v xjhkvmvodqzgt nhvgg xjhkzinvodji ypmdib ocz ocmzz
tzvmn ja mznzmqz, rjpgy fzzk v gvmbz wjyt ja hzi vo ocz xvgg ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio, omvdizy viy mzvyt ajm [hdnndib ozso].

Ocz Vmht ja ocz Pidozy Novozn dn di bjjy xjiydodji. Do ncjrzy donzga vwgz
oj hzzo vi zhzmbzixt di ocz npxxznnapg hjwdgduvodji ja vi vmht ydqdndji ja
amjh 15,000 oj 20,000 hzi, rcdxc ojjf kgvxz vgjib ocz wjmyzm ja Hzsdxj
ypmdib ocz mzxzio ydnopmwvixzn di ocvo xjpiomt. Ocz hvmqzgjpn amzzyjh amjh
ocz jmydivmt xvhk ydnzvnzn ja otkcjdy azqzm viy hzvngzn dn mzazmmzy oj di
ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm viy ncjrn npxc vi zaazxodqziznn di ocz
nvidovmt mzbpgvodjin viy omzvohzio ja ocz Hzydxvg Xjmkn, viy di ocz
ydnxdkgdiz ja ocz Vmht donzga, vn oj diqjfz ocz cdbczno xjhhziyvodji.

HZHJMDVG VHKCDOCZVOZM VO VMGDIBOJI.

D wzb oj mzizr ht mzxjhhziyvodji ja gvno tzvm ocvo ocz Xjibmznn vkkmjkmdvoz
ajm v hzhjmdvg vhkcdoczvozm vo Vmgdiboji, Qv., ocz apiyn mzlpdmzy oj
xjinompxo do pkji ocz kgvin vgmzvyt vkkmjqzy.

OCZ KVIVHV XVIVG.

Ocz qzmt nvodnavxojmt kmjbmznn hvyz ji ocz Kvivhv Xvivg gvno tzvm cvn
xjiodipzy, viy oczmz dn zqzmt mzvnji oj wzgdzqz ocvo ocz xvivg
rdgg wz xjhkgzozy vn zvmgt vn ocz 1no ja Epgt, 1913, pigznn njhzocdib
piajmznzzi jxxpmn. Ocdn dn vwjpo 18 hjiocn wzajmz ocz odhz kmjhdnzy wt ocz
zibdizzmn.

Rz vmz ijr izvm zijpbc ocz xjhkgzodji ja ocz xvivg oj hvfz do dhkzmvodqzgt
izxznnvmt ocvo gzbdngvodji ncjpgy wz zivxozy oj ads ocz hzocjy wt rcdxc ocz
xvivg ncvgg wz hvdiovdizy viy xjiomjggzy viy ocz ujiz bjqzmizy. Ocz avxo dn
ocvo oj-yvt oczmz dn ij novopojmt gvr wt vpocjmdot ja rcdxc ocz Kmzndyzio
dn hvdiovdidib ocz bjqzmihzio ja ocz ujiz. Npxc vpocjmdot rvn bdqzi di vi
vhziyhzio oj ocz Nkjjizm Vxo, rcdxc zskdmzy wt ocz ozmhn ja don jri
gdhdovodji njhz tzvmn vbj. Ndixz ocvo odhz ocz bjqzmihzio cvn xjiodipzy,
piyzm ocz vyqdxz ja ocz Voojmizt Bzizmvg ocvo di ocz vwnzixz ja vxodji wt
Xjibmznn, oczmz dn izxznnvmdgt vi dhkgdzy vpocjmdot ji ocz kvmo ja ocz
Zszxpodqz oj hvdiovdi v bjqzmihzio di v ozmmdojmt di rcdxc cz cvn oj nzz
ocvo ocz gvrn vmz zszxpozy. Ocz avxo ocvo rz cvqz wzzi vwgz ocpn oj bzo
vgjib ypmdib ocz dhkjmovio yvtn ja xjinompxodji rdocjpo gzbdngvodji
zskmznngt ajmhpgvodib ocz bjqzmihzio ja ocz ujiz, jm yzgzbvodib ocz
xmzvodji ja do oj ocz Kmzndyzio, dn ijo v mzvnji ajm npkkjndib ocvo rz hvt
xjiodipz ocz nvhz fdiy ja v bjqzmihzio vaozm ocz xjinompxodji dn adidnczy.
Ocz dhkgdzy vpocjmdot ja ocz Kmzndyzio oj hvdiovdi v xdqdg bjqzmihzio di
ocz ujiz hvt wz yzmdqzy amjh ocz hviyvojmt ydmzxodji bdqzi cdh di ocz
jmdbdivg Nkjjizm Vxo, wt rcdxc cz rvn xjhhviyzy oj wpdgy ocz xvivg; wpo
xzmovdigt, ijr ocvo ocz xvivg dn vwjpo oj wz xjhkgzozy viy oj wz kpo piyzm
v kzmhvizio hvivbzhzio, oczmz jpbco oj wz nkzxdadx novopojmt vpocjmdot ajm
don mzbpgvodji viy xjiomjg viy ajm ocz bjqzmihzio ja ocz ujiz, rcdxc rz
cjgy ajm ocz xcdza viy hvdi kpmkjnz ja jkzmvodib ocz xvivg.

D apggt xjixpm rdoc ocz Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm ocvo ocz kmjwgzh dn ndhkgt ocz
hvivbzhzio ja v bmzvo kpwgdx rjmf, viy ijo ocz bjqzmihzio ja v gjxvg
mzkpwgdx; ocvo zqzmt kmjqdndji hpno wz ydmzxozy ojrvmy ocz npxxznnapg
hvdiozivixz ja ocz xvivg vn vi vqzipz ja xjhhzmxz, viy ocvo vgg kmjqdndjin
ajm ocz bjqzmihzio ja ocjnz rcj gdqz rdocdi ocz ujiz ncjpgy wz npwjmydivoz
oj ocz hvdi kpmkjnz.

Ocz ujiz dn 40 hdgzn gjib viy 10 hdgzn rdyz. Ijr, do cvn v kjkpgvodji Ja
50,000 jm 60,000, wpo vn njji vn ocz rjmf ja xjinompxodji dn xjhkgzozy, ocz
ojrin rcdxc hvfz pk ocdn kjkpgvodji rdgg wz yznzmozy, viy jigt
xjhkvmvodqzgt azr ivodqzn rdgg xjiodipz oczdm mzndyzixz oczmz. Ocz xjiomjg
ja oczh jpbco oj vkkmjsdhvoz v hdgdovmt bjqzmihzio. Jiz epybz viy orj
epnodxzn ja ocz kzvxz rdgg wz npaadxdzio oj vooziy oj vgg ocz epydxdvg viy
gdodbvozy wpndiznn oczmz dn. Rdoc v azr apiyvhziovg gvrn ja Xjibmznn, ocz
ujiz ncjpgy wz bjqzmizy wt ocz jmyzmn ja ocz Kmzndyzio, dnnpzy ocmjpbc ocz
Rvm Yzkvmohzio, vn do dn ojyvt. Kmjqdndjin xvi wz hvyz ajm ocz bpvmviodzn
ja gdaz, gdwzmot, viy kmjkzmot, wpo wztjiy ocjnz, ocz bjqzmihzio ncjpgy wz
ocvo ja v hdgdovmt mznzmqvodji, hvivbzy di xjiizxodji rdoc ocdn bmzvo
cdbcrvt ja omvyz.

APMIDNCDIB NPKKGDZN VIY MZKVDMN.

Di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz D ydnxpnnzy vo gziboc ocz mzvnjin ajm ocz
Bjqzmihzio'n vnnphdib ocz ovnf ja apmidncdib oj vgg ncdkn ocvo pnz ocz
xvivg, rczoczm jpm jri ivqvg qznnzgn jm joczmn, ocz npkkgdzn ja xjvg viy
jdg viy joczm izxznndodzn rdoc rcdxc oczt hpno wz mzkgzidnczy zdoczm wzajmz
jm vaozm kvnndib ocmjpbc ocz xvivg, ojbzoczm rdoc ocz yjxf avxdgdodzn viy
mzkvdmn ja zqzmt xcvmvxozm. Ocdn do dn ocjpbco rdnz oj yj ocmjpbc ocz
Bjqzmihzio, wzxvpnz ocz Bjqzmihzio hpno znovwgdnc ajm donzga, ajm don jri
ivqvg qznnzgn, gvmbz yzkjon viy ymt yjxfn viy rvmzcjpnzn, viy ocznz hvt
zvndgt wz zigvmbzy nj vn oj nzxpmz oj ocz rjmgy kpwgdx pndib ocz xvivg
mzvnjivwgz kmdxzn viy v xzmovdiot ocvo oczmz rdgg wz ij ydnxmdhdivodji
wzorzzi ocjnz rcj rdnc oj vqvdg oczhnzgqzn ja npxc avxdgdodzn. OJGGN.

D mzizr ht mzxjhhziyvodji rdoc mznkzxo oj ocz ojggn ja ocz xvivg ocvo
rdocdi gdhdon, rcdxc ncvgg nzzh rdnz oj Xjibmznn, ocz kjrzm ja adsdib ojggn
wz bdqzi oj ocz Kmzndyzio. Di jmyzm oj vmmdqz vo v kmjkzm xjixgpndji, oczmz
hpno wz njhz zskzmdhziodib, viy ocdn xvi ijo wz yjiz da Xjibmznn yjzn ijo
yzgzbvoz ocz kjrzm oj jiz rcj xvi vxo zskzydodjpngt.

KJRZM ZSDNON OJ MZGDZQZ VHZMDXVI NCDKKDIB.

D vh qzmt xjiadyzio ocvo ocz Pidozy Novozn cvn ocz kjrzm oj mzgdzqz amjh
ocz kvthzio ja ojggn vit kvmo ja jpm ncdkkdib ocvo Xjibmznn yzzhn rdnz. Rz
jri ocz xvivg. Do rvn jpm hjizt ocvo wpdgo do. Rz cvqz ocz mdbco oj xcvmbz
ojggn ajm don pnz. Ocjnz ojggn hpno wz ocz nvhz oj zqzmtjiz; wpo rczi rz
vmz yzvgdib rdoc jpm jri ncdkn, ocz kmvxodxz ja hvit Bjqzmihzion ja
npwndydudib oczdm jri hzmxcvio qznnzgn dn nj rzgg znovwgdnczy di bzizmvg
ocvo v npwndyt zlpvg oj ocz ojggn, vi zlpdqvgzio mzhdnndji ja ojggn, xvi
ijo wz czgy oj wz v ydnxmdhdivodji di ocz pnz ja ocz xvivg. Ocz kmvxodxz di
ocz Npzu Xvivg hvfzn ocdn xgzvm. Ocz zskzmdhzio di ojggn oj wz hvyz wt ocz
Kmzndyzio rjpgy yjpwogznn ydnxgjnz cjr bmzvo v wpmyzi ja ojggn ocz
xjvnordnz omvyz wzorzzi ocz Vogviodx viy ocz Kvxdadx xjvno xjpgy wzvm
rdocjpo kmzqziodib don pnzapgiznn di xjhkzododji rdoc ocz omvinxjiodiziovg
mvdgmjvyn. Jiz ja ocz xcdza mzvnjin ajm wpdgydib ocz xvivg rvn oj nzo pk
ocdn xjhkzododji viy oj wmdib ocz orj ncjmzn xgjnzm ojbzoczm vn v kmvxodxvg
omvyz kmjwgzh. Do hvt wz ocvo ocz ojggn rdgg cvqz oj wz rcjggt mzhdoozy. D
yj ijo ocdif ocdn dn ocz wzno kmdixdkgz, wzxvpnz D wzgdzqz ocvo ocz xjno ja
npxc v Bjqzmihzio rjmf vn ocz Kvivhv Xvivg jpbco oj wz dhkjnzy bmvypvggt
wpo xzmovdigt pkji ocz omvyz rcdxc do xmzvozn viy hvfzn kjnndwgz. Nj avm vn
rz xvi, xjindnozio rdoc ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja ocz rjmgy'n omvyz ocmjpbc ocz
xvivg, viy ocz wzizado rcdxc do rvn dioziyzy oj nzxpmz oj ocz zvno viy rzno
xjvnordnz omvyz, rz jpbco oj gvwjm oj nzxpmz amjh ocz xvivg ojggn v
npaadxdzio vhjpio pgodhvozgt oj hzzo ocz yzwo rcdxc rz cvqz vnnphzy viy oj
kvt ocz diozmzno.

OCZ KCDGDKKDIZ DNGVIYN.

Di mznkzxo oj ocz Kcdgdkkdizn, D pmbziogt ejdi di ocz mzxjhhziyvodji ja ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm ocvo ocz vxo ja Azwmpvmt 6, 1905, gdhdodib ocz
diyzwozyiznn ocvo hvt wz dixpmmzy wt ocz Kcdgdkkdiz Bjqzmihzio ajm ocz
xjinompxodji ja kpwgdx rjmfn, wz dixmzvnzy amjh $5,000,000 oj $15,000,000.
Ocz adivixzn ja ocvo Bjqzmihzio vmz di zsxzggzio xjiydodji. Ocz hvsdhph nph
hziodjizy dn lpdoz gjr vn xjhkvmzy rdoc ocz vhjpio ja diyzwozyiznn ja joczm
bjqzmihzion rdoc ndhdgvm mznjpmxzn, viy ocz npxxznn rcdxc cvn vooziyzy ocz
zskziydopmz ja ocz $5,000,000 di ocz pnzapg dhkmjqzhzion ja ocz cvmwjmn viy
joczm kgvxzn di ocz Dngviyn epnodadzn viy mzlpdmzn vyydodjivg zskziydopmzn
ajm gdfz kpmkjnzn. IVOPMVGDUVODJI.

D vgnj ejdi di ocz mzxjhhziyvodji ocvo ocz gzbdngvopmz ja ocz Kcdgdkkdiz
Dngviyn wz vpocjmduzy oj kmjqdyz ajm ocz ivopmvgduvodji ja Adgdkdijn viy
joczmn rcj wt ocz kmznzio gvr vmz omzvozy vn vgdzin, nj vn oj zivwgz oczh
oj wzxjhz xdoduzin ja ocz Kcdgdkkdiz Dngviyn.

AMDVMN' GVIYN.

Kziydib vi diqznodbvodji wt Xjibmznn vo don gvno nznndji, ocmjpbc jiz ja
don xjhhdoozzn, dioj ocz ydnkjndodji ja ocz amdvmn' gviyn, Nzxmzovmt
Ydxfdinji ydmzxozy ocvo ocz amdvmn' gviyn ncjpgy ijo wz njgy di zsxznn ja
ocz gdhdon adszy ajm ocz kpwgdx gviyn piodg Xjibmznn ncjpgy kvnn pkji ocz
npwezxo jm ncjpgy cvqz xjixgpyzy don diqznodbvodji. Ocdn jmyzm cvn wzzi vi
jwnompxodji oj ocz ydnkjndodji ja ocz gviyn, viy D zskzxo oj ydmzxo ocz
Nzxmzovmt ja Rvm oj mzopmi oj ocz kmvxodxz piyzm ocz jkdidji ja ocz
Voojmizt Bzizmvg rcdxc rdgg zivwgz pn oj ydnkjnz ja ocz gviyn hpxc hjmz
kmjhkogt, viy oj kmzkvmz v ndifdib apiy rdoc rcdxc oj hzzo ocz $7,000,000
ja wjiyn dnnpzy ajm ocz kpmxcvnz ja ocz gviyn. D cvqz ij yjpwo rcvozqzm
ocvo ocz Voojmizt Bzizmvg'n xjinompxodji rvn v kmjkzm jiz, viy ocvo do dn
di ocz diozmzno ja zqzmtjiz ocvo ocz gviy ncvgg wz kmjhkogt ydnkjnzy ja.
Ocz yvibzm ja xmzvodib v hjijkjgt ja jrizmncdk di gviyn piyzm ocz novopozn
vn xjinompzy dn ijocdib. Oczmz vmz jigt orj omvxon ja 60,000 vxmzn zvxc
pidhkmjqzy viy di mzhjoz Kmjqdixzn ocvo vmz gdfzgt oj wz ydnkjnzy ja di
wpgf, viy ocz mzno ja ocz gviyn vmz npwezxo oj ocz gdhdovodji ocvo oczt
ncvgg wz admno jaazmzy oj ocz kmznzio ozivion viy gznnjmn rcj cjgy oczh di
nhvgg omvxon.

MDQZMN VIY CVMWJMN.

Ocz znodhvozn ajm ocz mdqzm viy cvmwjm dhkmjqzhzion mzvxc $32,000,000 ajm
ocz xjhdib tzvm. D rdnc oj pmbz ocvo rczizqzm v kmjezxo cvn wzzi vyjkozy wt
Xjibmznn vn jiz oj wz xjhkgzozy, ocz hjmz hjizt rcdxc xvi wz zxjijhdxvggt
zskziyzy di don xjinompxodji di zvxc tzvm, ocz bmzvozm ocz pgodhvoz
zxjijht. Ocdn cvn znkzxdvg vkkgdxvodji oj ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja ocz
Hdnndnndkkd Mdqzm viy don gvmbz wmvixczn. Do nzzhn oj hz ocvo vi dixmzvnz
di ocz vhjpio ja hjizt ijr wzdib viipvggt zskziyzy di ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja
ocz Jcdj Mdqzm rcdxc cvn wzzi ajmhvggt vyjkozy wt Xjibmznn rjpgy wz di ocz
diozmzno ja ocz kpwgdx. V ndhdgvm xcvibz jpbco oj wz hvyz ypmdib ocz
kmznzio Xjibmznn, di ocz vhjpio oj wz vkkmjkmdvozy ajm ocz Hdnnjpmd Mdqzm.
Ocz zibdizzmn nvt ocvo ocz xjno ja ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja ocz Hdnnjpmd Mdqzm
amjh Fvinvn Xdot oj No. Gjpdn, di jmyzm oj nzxpmz 6 azzo vn v kzmhvizio
xcviizg, rdgg mzvxc $20,000,000. Oczmz cvqz wzzi vo gzvno ocmzz
mzxjhhziyvodjin amjh ocz Xcdza ja Zibdizzmn ocvo da ocz dhkmjqzhzio wz
vyjkozy, $2,000,000 ncjpgy wz zskziyzy pkji do viipvggt. Ocdn kvmodxpgvm
dhkmjqzhzio dn znkzxdvggt ziodogzy oj ocz vooziodji ja Xjibmznn, wzxvpnz v
xjhkvit cvn wzzi jmbviduzy di Fvinvn Xdot, rdoc v xvkdovg ja $1,000,000,
rcdxc cvn wpdgo nozvhzmn viy wvmbzn, viy dn vxopvggt pndib ocz mdqzm ajm
omvinkjmovodji di jmyzm oj ncjr rcvo xvi wz yjiz di ocz rvt ja vaazxodib
mvozn wzorzzi Fvinvn Xdot viy No. Gjpdn, viy di jmyzm oj hvidazno oczdm
bjjy avdoc viy xjiadyzixz di mznkzxo ja ocz dhkmjqzhzio. D pmbziogt
mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz vkkmjkmdvodji ajm ocdn dhkmjqzhzio wz dixmzvnzy amjh
$600,000, vn mzxjhhziyzy ijr di ocz xjhkgzodji ja v xjiomvxo, oj $2,000,000
viipvggt, nj ocvo ocz rjmf hvt wz yjiz di 10 tzvmn.

RVOZMRVT AMJH OCZ GVFZN OJ OCZ BPGA.

Ocz kmjezxo ajm v ivqdbvwgz rvozmrvt amjh Gvfz Hdxcdbvi oj ocz hjpoc ja ocz
Dggdijdn Mdqzm, viy oczixz qdv ocz Hdnndnndkkd oj ocz Bpga ja Hzsdxj, dn
jiz ja ivodjivg dhkjmovixz. Di qdzr ja ocz rjmf vgmzvyt vxxjhkgdnczy wt ocz
Nvidovmt Ydnomdxo ja Xcdxvbj, vi vbzixt ja ocz Novoz ja Dggdijdn, rcdxc cvn
xjinompxozy ocz hjno ydaadxpgo viy xjnogt nomzoxc ja ocdn rvozmrvt viy hvyz
do vi vnnzo ja ocz Ivodji, viy di qdzr ja ocz avxo ocvo ocz kzjkgz ja
Dggdijdn cvqz vpocjmduzy ocz zskziydopmz Ja $20,000,000 oj xvmmt ocdn
rvozmrvt 62 hdgzn avmoczm oj Podxv, D azzg ocvo do dn adoodib ocvo ocdn
rjmf ncjpgy wz npkkgzhziozy wt ocz Bjqzmihzio, viy ocvo ocz zskziydopmzn
mzxjhhziyzy wt ocz nkzxdvg wjvmy ja zibdizzmn ji ocz rvozmrvt amjh Podxv oj
ocz hjpoc ja ocz Dggdijdn Mdqzm wz hvyz pkji gdizn rcdxc rcdgz kmjqdydib v
rvozmrvt ajm ocz Ivodji ncjpgy joczmrdnz wzizado ocvo Novoz oj ocz apggzno
zsozio. D mzxjhhziy ocvo ocz ozmh ja nzmqdxz ja nvdy nkzxdvg wjvmy ja
zibdizzmn wz xjiodipzy, viy ocvo do wz zhkjrzmzy oj mzjkzi ocz lpznodji ja
ocz omzvohzio ja ocz gjrzm Dggdijdn Mdqzm, viy oj izbjodvoz rdoc v kmjkzmgt
xjinodopozy xjhhdnndji mzkmznziodib ocz Novoz ja Dggdijdn, viy oj vbmzz
pkji v kgvi ajm ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja ocz gjrzm Dggdijdn Mdqzm viy pkji ocz
zsozio oj rcdxc ocz Pidozy Novozn hvt kmjkzmgt xjjkzmvoz rdoc ocz Novoz ja
Dggdijdn di nzxpmdib ocz xjinompxodji ja v ivqdbvwgz rvozmrvt amjh Gjxfkjmo
oj ocz hjpoc ja ocz Dggdijdn Mdqzm di xjiepixodji rdoc ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja
rvozm kjrzm wt ocvo Novoz wzorzzi Gjxfkjmo viy Podxv.

OCZ YZKVMOHZIO JA EPNODXZ.

Mzhjqvg ja xgzmfn ja Azyzmvg xjpmon.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz Voojmizt Bzizmvg ncjrn ocvo cz cvn npwezxozy oj xgjnz
zsvhdivodji ocz vxxjpion ja ocz xgzmfn ja ocz Azyzmvg xjpmon; ocvo cz cvn
ajpiy v bjjy hvit rcdxc ydnxgjnz dmmzbpgvmdodzn jm ydncjiznot; wpo ocvo cz
cvn cvy xjindyzmvwgz ydaadxpgot di nzxpmdib vi zaazxodqz kmjnzxpodji jm
mzhjqvg ja ocz xgzmfn ocpn yzmzgdxo. D vh xzmovdigt ijo piypgt kmzepydxzy
vbvdino ocz Azyzmvg xjpmon, wpo ocz avxo dn ocvo ocz gjib viy xjiadyziodvg
mzgvodjin rcdxc bmjr jpo ja ocz ozipmz ajm gdaz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz epybz
viy ocz kmvxodxvg ozipmz ajm gdaz ji ocz kvmo ja ocz xgzmf vmz ijo
xvgxpgvozy oj nzxpmz ocz nomdxoiznn ja yzvgdib wt ocz epybz rdoc ocz xgzmf
di mznkzxo oj cdn azzn viy vxxjpion rcdxc vnnpmzn di ocz xgzmf'n xjiypxo v
amzzyjh amjh jqzmxcvmbzn viy xvmzgznniznn. Ocz mzgvodjincdk wzorzzi ocz
epybz viy ocz xgzmf hvfzn do pibmvxdjpn ajm hzhwzmn ja ocz wvm oj xjhkgvdi
ja ocz xgzmf jm ajm yzkvmohzio zsvhdizmn oj hvfz xcvmbzn vbvdino cdh oj wz
czvmy wt ocz xjpmo, viy vi jmyzm ja mzhjqvg ja v xgzmf viy v epybhzio ajm
ocz mzxjqzmt ja azzn vmz di njhz xvnzn mzgpxoviogt ziozmzy wt ocz epybz.
Ajm ocdn mzvnji D mzxjhhziy vi vhziyhzio oj ocz gvr rczmzwt ocz Kmzndyzio
ncvgg wz bdqzi kjrzm oj mzhjqz ocz xgzmfn ajm xvpnz. Ocdn kmjqdndji izzy
ijo diozmazmz rdoc ocz mdbco ja ocz epybz oj vkkjdio cdn xgzmf jm oj mzhjqz
cdh.

Amzixc nkjgdvodji vrvmyn.

Di ht gvno hznnvbz, D mzxjhhziyzy oj Xjibmznn ocvo do vpocjmduz ocz kvthzio
ja ocz adiydibn jm epybhzion ja ocz Xjpmo ja Xgvdhn di ocz hvoozm ja ocz
Amzixc nkjgdvodji xvnzn. Oczmz cvn wzzi ij vkkmjkmdvodji oj kvt ocznz
epybhzion ndixz 1905. Ocz adiydibn viy vrvmyn rzmz jwovdizy vaozm v qzmt
wdoozm adbco, ocz Bjqzmihzio npxxzzydib di vwjpo 75 kzm xzio ja ocz xvnzn.
Ocz vhjpio ja ocz vrvmyn jpbco, vn v hvoozm ja bjjy avdoc ji ocz kvmo ja
ocz Bjqzmihzio, oj wz kvdy.

ZHKGJTZMN' GDVWDGDOT VIY RJMFHZI'N XJHKZINVODJI XJHHDNNDJI.

Ocz gdhdovodji ja ocz gdvwdgdot ja ocz hvnozm oj cdn nzmqvio ajm kzmnjivg
diepmdzn oj npxc vn vmz jxxvndjizy wt cdn avpgo cvn wzzi vwviyjizy di hjno
xdqdgduzy xjpiomdzn viy kmjqdndji hvyz rczmzwt ocz zhkgjtzz diepmzy di ocz
xjpmnz ja cdn zhkgjthzio dn xjhkzinvozy ajm cdn gjnn ja rjmfdib vwdgdot
dmmznkzxodqz ja izbgdbzixz. Ocz kmdixdkgz pkji rcdxc npxc kmjqdndji
kmjxzzyn dn ocvo vxxdyziovg diepmdzn oj rjmfhzi di hjyzmi diypnomt, rdoc
don qvno xjhkgzsdot viy diczmzio yvibzmn vmdndib amjh xjhkgdxvozy hvxcdizmt
viy ocz pnz ja ocz bmzvo ajmxzn ja nozvh viy zgzxomdxdot, ncjpgy wz
mzbvmyzy vn mdnfn ja ocz diypnomt viy ocz gjnn wjmiz di njhz zlpdovwgz
kmjkjmodji wt ocjnz rcj ajm oczdm jri kmjado zibvbz oczmzdi. Di mzxjbidodji
ja ocdn ocz gvno Xjibmznn vpocjmduzy ocz vkkjdiohzio ja v xjhhdnndji oj
diqznodbvoz ocz npwezxo ja zhkgjtzmn' gdvwdgdot viy rjmfhzi'n xjhkzinvodji
viy oj mzkjmo ocz mznpgo ja oczdm diqznodbvodjin, ocmjpbc ocz Kmzndyzio, oj
Xjibmznn. Ocdn xjhhdnndji rvn vkkjdiozy viy cvn wzzi vo rjmf, cjgydib
czvmdibn, bvoczmdib yvov, viy xjindyzmdib ocz npwezxo, viy do dn zskzxozy
rdgg wz vwgz oj mzkjmo wt ocz admno ja ocz tzvm, di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz
kmjqdndjin ja ocz gvr. Do dn cjkzy viy zskzxozy ocvo ocz xjhhdnndji rdgg
npbbzno gzbdngvodji rcdxc rdgg zivwgz pn oj kpo di ocz kgvxz ja ocz kmznzio
rvnozapg viy njhzodhzn piepno ntnozh ja zhkgjtzmn' gdvwdgdot v kgvi ja
xjhkzinvodji rcdxc rdgg vaajmy njhz xzmovdi viy yzadidoz mzgdza oj vgg
zhkgjtzzn rcj vmz diepmzy di ocz xjpmnz ja oczdm zhkgjthzio di ocjnz
diypnomdzn rcdxc vmz npwezxo oj ocz mzbpgvodib kjrzm ja Xjibmznn.

HZVNPMZN OJ KMZQZIO YZGVT VIY PIIZXZNNVMT XJNO JA GDODBVODJI.

Di kmjhjodji ja ocz hjqzhzio ajm ocz kmzqziodji ja yzgvt viy piizxznnvmt
xjno, di gdodbvodji, D vh bgvy oj nvt ocvo ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo cvn ovfzi
nozkn oj mzajmh ocz kmznzio zlpdot mpgzn ja ocz Azyzmvg xjpmon, viy ocvo rz
hvt di ocz izvm apopmz zskzxo v mzqdndji ja oczh rcdxc rdgg wz v gjib nozk
di ocz mdbco ydmzxodji.

Ocz Vhzmdxvi Wvm Vnnjxdvodji cvn mzxjhhziyzy oj Xjibmznn nzqzmvg wdggn
zskzydodib kmjxzypmz, jiz ja rcdxc cvn vgmzvyt kvnnzy ocz Cjpnz
pividhjpngt, Azwmpvmt 6, 1911. Ocdn ydmzxon ocvo ij epybhzio ncjpgy wz nzo
vndyz jm mzqzmnzy, jm izr omdvg bmviozy, pigznn do vkkzvmn oj ocz xjpmo,
vaozm vi zsvhdivodji ja ocz ziodmz xvpnz, ocvo ocz zmmjm xjhkgvdizy ja cvn
diepmdjpngt vaazxozy ocz npwnoviodvg mdbcon ja ocz kvmodzn, viy vgnj
kmjqdyzn ajm ocz npwhdnndji ja dnnpzn ja avxo oj v epmt, mznzmqdib
lpznodjin ja gvr ajm npwnzlpzio vmbphzio viy yzxdndji. D cjkz ocdn wdgg
rdgg kvnn ocz Nzivoz viy wzxjhz gvr, ajm do rdgg ndhkgdat ocz kmjxzypmz vo
gvr.

Vijoczm wdgg 11 oj vhziy xcvkozm DD ja ocz epydxdvg Xjyz, di jmyzm oj
vqjdy zmmjmn di kgzvydib, rvn kmznziozy wt ocz nvhz vnnjxdvodji, viy jiz.
zigvmbdib ocz epmdnydxodji ja ocz Npkmzhz Xjpmo nj vn oj kzmhdo ocvo xjpmo
oj zsvhdiz, pkji v rmdo ja zmmjm, vgg xvnzn di rcdxc vit mdbco jm odogz dn
xgvdhzy piyzm ocz Xjinodopodji, jm vit novopoz jm omzvot ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn, rczoczm ocz yzxdndji di ocz xjpmo wzgjr cvn wzzi vbvdino ocz mdbco
jm odogz jm di don avqjm. Wjoc ocznz hzvnpmzn vmz di ocz diozmzno ja
epnodxz viy ncjpgy wz kvnnzy.

KJNO JAADXZ.

Vo ocz wzbdiidib ja ocz kmznzio vyhdidnomvodji di 1909 ocz kjnovg nzmqdxz
rvn di vmmzvmn oj ocz zsozio Ja $17,479,770.47. Do rvn qzmt hpxc ocz
gvmbzno yzadxdo ji mzxjmy. Di ocz wmdza nkvxz ja orj tzvmn ocdn cvn wzzi
opmizy dioj v npmkgpn Ja $220,000, rcdxc cvn wzzi vxxjhkgdnczy rdocjpo
xpmovdghzio ja ocz kjnovg avxdgdodzn, vn hvt wz nzzi wt ocz avxo ocvo oczmz
cvqz wzzi znovwgdnczy 3,744 izr kjno jaadxzn; yzgdqzmt wt xvmmdzm cvn wzzi
vyyzy oj ocz nzmqdxz di 186 xdodzn; 2,516 izr mpmvg mjpozn cvqz wzzi
znovwgdnczy, xjqzmdib 60,000 hdgzn; ocz ajmxz ja kjnovg zhkgjtzzn cvn wzzi
dixmzvnzy di ocznz orj tzvmn wt hjmz ocvi 8,000, viy oczdm vqzmvbz viipvg
nvgvmt cvn cvy v npwnoviodvg dixmzvnz.

KJNOVG-NVQDIBN NTNOZH.

Ji Evipvmt 3, 1911, kjnovg-nvqdibn yzkjndojmdzn rzmz znovwgdnczy
zskzmdhziovggt di 48 Novozn viy Ozmmdojmdzn. Vaozm ocmzz hjiocn' npxxznnapg
jkzmvodji ocz ntnozh rvn zsoziyzy vn mvkdygt vn azvndwgz oj ocz 7,500 Kjno
jaadxzn ja ocz admno, nzxjiy, viy ocdmy xgvnnzn xjinodopodib ocz
kmzndyziodvg bmvyz. Wt ocz ziy ja ocz tzvm kmvxodxvggt vgg ja ocznz rdgg
cvqz wzzi yzndbivozy viy oczi ocz ntnozh rdgg wz zsoziyzy oj vgg
ajpmoc-xgvnn kjno jaadxzn yjdib v hjizt-jmyzm wpndiznn.

Di nzgzxodib kjno jaadxzn ajm yzkjndojmdzn xjindyzmvodji rvn bdqzi oj ocz
zaadxdzixt ja ocz kjnohvnozmn viy jigt ocjnz jaadxzn rczmz ocz mvodibn rzmz
nvodnavxojmt oj ocz yzkvmohzio cvqz wzzi yzndbivozy. Rdoccjgydib
yzndbivodji amjh kjnohvnozmn rdoc pinvodnavxojmt mvodibn cvn cvy v nvgpovmt
zaazxo ji ocz nzmqdxz.

Ocz yzkjndon cvqz fzko kvxz rdoc ocz zsozindji ja ocz ntnozh. Vhjpiodib oj
jigt $60,652 vo ocz ziy ja ocz admno hjioc'n jkzmvodji di ocz zskzmdhziovg
jaadxzn, oczt dixmzvnzy oj $679,310 wt Epgt, viy ijr vaozm 11 hjiocn ja
jkzmvodji cvqz mzvxczy v ojovg ja $11,000,000. Ocdn nph dn ydnomdwpozy
vhjib 2,710 wvifn viy kmjozxozy odiyzm ocz gvr wt wjiyn yzkjndozy rdoc ocz
Omzvnpmzm ja ocz Pidozy Novozn.

Piyzm ocz hzocjy vyjkozy ajm ocz xjiypxo ja ocz ntnozh xzmodadxvozn vmz
dnnpzy vn zqdyzixz ja yzkjndon, viy vxxjpion rdoc yzkjndojmn vmz fzko wt
ocz kjno jaadxzn dinozvy ja wt ocz yzkvmohzio. Xjhkvmzy rdoc ocz kmvxodxz
di joczm xjpiomdzn ja ziozmdib yzkjndon di kvnn wjjfn viy fzzkdib vo ocz
xziomvg jaadxz v gzybzm vxxjpio rdoc zvxc yzkjndojm, ocz pnz ja ocz
xzmodadxvoz cvn mznpgozy di bmzvo zxjijht ja vyhdidnomvodji.

Ocz yzkjndojmn ocpn avm iphwzm vkkmjsdhvozgt 150,000. Oczt dixgpyz 40
ivodjivgdodzn, ivodqz Vhzmdxvin gvmbzgt kmzyjhdivodib viy Zibgdnc viy
Dovgdvin xjhdib izso.

Ocz admno xjiqzmndji ja yzkjndon dioj Pidozy Novozn wjiyn wzvmdib diozmzno
vo ocz mvoz ja 2.5 kzm xzio jxxpmmzy ji Epgt 1, 1911, ocz vhjpio ja
yzkjndon zsxcvibzy wzdib $41,900, jm v gdoogz hjmz ocvi 6 kzm xzio ja ocz
ojovg jponoviydib xzmodadxvozn ja yzkjndo ji Epiz 30. Ja ocdn dnnpz, wjiyn
oj ocz qvgpz ja $6,120 rzmz di xjpkji ajmh viy $35,780 di mzbdnozmzy ajmh.

KVMXZG KJNO.

Nozkn ncjpgy wz ovfzi dhhzydvozgt ajm ocz znovwgdnchzio ja v mpmvg kvmxzg
kjno. Di ocz znodhvozn ja vkkmjkmdvodjin izzyzy ajm ocz hvdiozivixz ja ocz
kjnovg nzmqdxz ajm ocz zinpdib adnxvg tzvm vi dozh ja $150,000 cvn wzzi
dinzmozy oj xjqzm ocz kmzgdhdivmt zskzinz ja znovwgdncdib v kvmxzg kjno ji
mpmvg hvdg mjpozn, vn rzgg vn oj xjqzm vi diqznodbvodji cvqdib ajm don
jwezxo ocz adivg znovwgdnchzio ja v bzizmvg kvmxzg kjno ji vgg mvdgrvt viy
nozvhwjvo omvinkjmovodji mjpozn. Ocz yzkvmohzio wzgdzqzn ocvo vaozm ocz
didodvg zskzinzn ja znovwgdncdib ocz ntnozh vmz yzamvtzy viy ocz kvmxzg
kjno dn di apgg jkzmvodji ji ocz mpmvg mjpozn do rdgg ijo jigt wmdib di
npaadxdzio mzqzipz oj hzzo don xjno, wpo vgnj v npmkgpn ocvo xvi wz
podgduzy di kvtdib ocz zskzinzn ja v kvmxzg kjno di ocz Xdot Yzgdqzmt
Nzmqdxz.

Do dn cjkzy ocvo Xjibmznn rdgg vpocjmduz ocz dhhzydvoz znovwgdnchzio ja v
gdhdozy kvmxzg kjno ji npxc mpmvg mjpozn vn hvt wz nzgzxozy, kmjqdydib ajm
ocz yzgdqzmt vgjib ocz mjpozn ja kvmxzgn ijo zsxzzydib zgzqzi kjpiyn, rcdxc
dn ocz rzdbco gdhdo ajm ocz diozmivodjivg kvmxzg kjno, jm vo ocz kjno
jaadxz amjh rcdxc npxc mjpoz zhvivozn, jm ji vijoczm mjpoz zhvivodib amjh
ocz nvhz jaadxz. Npxc kmzgdhdivmt nzmqdxz rdgg kmzkvmz ocz rvt ajm ocz hjmz
ocjmjpbc viy xjhkmzczindqz dilpdmt xjiozhkgvozy di vnfdib ajm ocz
vkkmjkmdvodji hziodjizy, zivwgz ocz yzkvmohzio oj bvdi yzadidoz diajmhvodji
xjixzmidib ocz kmvxodxvg jkzmvodji ja v bzizmvg ntnozh, viy vo ocz nvhz
odhz zsoziy ocz wzizado ja ocz nzmqdxz oj v xgvnn ja kzjkgz rcj, vwjqz vgg
joczmn, vmz nkzxdvggt di izzy ja do.

Ocz npbbznodji ocvo rz cvqz v bzizmvg kvmxzg kjno cvn vrvfzizy bmzvo
jkkjndodji ji ocz kvmo ja njhz rcj ocdif ocvo do rdgg cvqz ocz zaazxo oj
yznomjt ocz wpndiznn ja ocz xjpiomt nojmzfzzkzm. Dinozvy ja yjdib ocdn, D
ocdif ocz xcvibz rdgg bmzvogt dixmzvnz wpndiznn ajm ocz wzizado ja vgg. Ocz
mzypxodji di ocz xjno ja gdqdib do rdgg wmdib vwjpo jpbco oj hvfz don
xjhdib xzmovdi.

OCZ IVQT YZKVMOHZIO.

Ji ocz 2y ja Ijqzhwzm gvno, D mzqdzrzy ocz adbcodib agzzo ja wvoogzncdkn
viy joczm qznnzgn vnnzhwgzy di Izr Tjmf Cvmwjm, xjindnodib ja 24
wvoogzncdkn, 2 vmhjmzy xmpdnzmn, 2 xmpdnzmn, 22 yznomjtzmn, 12 ojmkzyj
wjvon, 8 npwhvmdizn, viy joczm vooziyvio qznnzgn, hvfdib 98 qznnzgn ja vgg
xgvnnzn, ja v ojiivbz Ja 576,634 ojin. Ocjnz rcj nvr ocz agzzo rzmz nompxf
rdoc don kmzkvmzyiznn viy rdoc don cdbc hdgdovmt zaadxdzixt. Vgg Vhzmdxvin
ncjpgy wz kmjpy ja don kzmnjiizg.

Ocz agzzo rvn yzadxdzio di ocz iphwzm ja ojmkzyj yznomjtzmn, di xmpdnzmn,
viy di xjggdzmn, vn rzgg vn di gvmbz wvoogzncdk xmpdnzmn, rcdxc vmz ijr
wzxjhdib v qzmt dhkjmovio azvopmz ja ajmzdbi ivqdzn, ijovwgt ocz Wmdodnc,
Bzmhvi, viy Evkviznz.

Ocz wpdgydib kgvi ajm ocdn tzvm xjiozhkgvozn orj wvoogzncdkn viy orj
xjggdzmn. Ocdn dn wzxvpnz ocz joczm viy nhvggzm qznnzgn xvi wz wpdgo hpxc
hjmz mvkdygt di xvnz ja zhzmbzixt ocvi ocz wvoogzncdkn, viy rz xzmovdigt
jpbco oj xjiodipz ocz kjgdxt ja orj wvoogzncdkn v tzvm piodg vaozm ocz
Kvivhv Xvivg dn adidnczy viy piodg di jpm admno gdiz viy di jpm mznzmqz
gdiz rz xvi iphwzm 40 vqvdgvwgz qznnzgn ja kmjkzm vmhvhzio viy nduz.

Ocz mzjmbviduvodji ja ocz Ivqt viy ocz vkkjdiohzio ja ajpm vdyn oj ocz
Nzxmzovmt cvqz xjiodipzy oj yzhjinomvoz oczdm pnzapgiznn. Do rjpgy wz
ydaadxpgo ijr oj vyhdidnozm ocz vaavdmn ja ocz Ivqt rdocjpo ocz zskzmo
xjpinzg viy vyqdxz ja ocznz vdyn, viy D mzizr ocz mzxjhhziyvodji rcdxc D
hvyz gvno tzvm, ocvo ocz vdyn wz mzxjbiduzy wt novopoz.

Do dn xzmovdi ocvo ocz Ivqt, rdoc don kmznzio nduz, ncjpgy cvqz vyhdmvgn di
vxodqz xjhhviy cdbczm ocvi mzvm vyhdmvgn. Ocz mzxjbiduzy bmvyzn di jmyzm
vmz: Vyhdmvg ja ocz agzzo, vyhdmvg, qdxz vyhdmvg, viy mzvm vyhdmvg. Jpm
bmzvo wvoogzncdk agzzo dn xjhhviyzy wt v mzvm vyhdmvg, rdoc ajpm joczm mzvm
vyhdmvgn piyzm cdn jmyzmn. Ocdn dn ijo vn do ncjpgy wz, viy rczi lpznodjin
ja kmzxzyzixz vmdnz wzorzzi jpm ivqvg jaadxzmn viy ocjnz ja Zpmjkzvi
ivqdzn, ocz Vhzmdxvi mzvm vyhdmvg, ocjpbc di xjhhviy ja ozi odhzn ocz ajmxz
ja v ajmzdbi qdxz vyhdmvg, hpno tdzgy kmzxzyzixz oj ocz gvoozm. Npxc vi
vwnpmydot jpbco ijo oj kmzqvdg, viy do xvi wz vqjdyzy wt ocz xmzvodji ja
orj jm ocmzz kjndodjin ja agvb mvif vwjqz ocvo ja mzvm vyhdmvg.

D vooziyzy ocz jkzidib ja ocz izr omvdidib nxcjjg vo Ijmoc Xcdxvbj, Dgg.,
viy vh bgvy oj ijoz ocz jkkjmopidot rcdxc ocdn bdqzn ajm ymvrdib pkji tjpib
hzi ja ocz xjpiomt amjh ocz diozmdjm, amjh avmhn, nojmzn, ncjkn, viy
jaadxzn, rcdxc dinpmzn v cdbc vqzmvbz ja diozggdbzixz viy xcvmvxozm vhjib
oczh, viy rcdxc oczt ncjrzy di ocz qzmt rjiyzmapg dhkmjqzhzio di ydnxdkgdiz
viy ymdgg rcdxc jigt v azr ncjmo rzzfn' kmznzixz vo ocz ivqvg novodji cvy
hvyz.

D diqdoz tjpm vooziodji oj ocz xjindyzmvodji ja ocz izr ntnozh ja yzoziodji
viy ja kpidnchzio ajm Vmht viy Ivqt zigdnozy hzi rcdxc cvn jwovdizy di
Bmzvo Wmdovdi, viy rcdxc cvn hvyz bmzvogt ajm ocz wzoozm xjiomjg ja ocz.
hzi. Rz ncjpgy vyjko v ndhdgvm ntnozh czmz.

Gdfz ocz Omzvnpmt Yzkvmohzio viy ocz Rvm Yzkvmohzio, ocz Ivqt Yzkvmohzio
cvn bdqzi hpxc vooziodji oj zxjijht di vyhdidnomvodji, viy cvn xpo yjri v
iphwzm ja piizxznnvmt zskzinzn viy mzypxzy don znodhvozn zsxzko ajm
xjinompxodji viy ocz dixmzvnz ocvo ocvo diqjgqzn.

D pmbz pkji Xjibmznn ocz izxznndot ajm vi dhhzydvoz dixmzvnz ja 2,000 hzi
di ocz zigdnozy nomziboc ja ocz Ivqt, kmjqdyzy ajm di ocz znodhvozn. Ajpm
ocjpnviy hjmz vmz ijr izzyzy oj hvi vgg ocz vqvdgvwgz qznnzgn.

Oczmz vmz di ocz nzmqdxz oj-yvt vwjpo 47,750 zigdnozy hzi ja vgg mvodibn.

Xvmzapg xjhkpovodji ncjrn ocvo di Vkmdg, 1912, 49,166 hzi rdgg wz mzlpdmzy
ajm qznnzgn di xjhhdnndji, viy 3,000 vkkmziodxz nzvhzi ncjpgy wz fzko piyzm
omvdidib vo vgg odhzn.

VWJGDODJI JA IVQT TVMYN.

Ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt cvn mzxjhhziyzy ocz vwjgdodji ja xzmovdi ja ocz
nhvggzm viy piizxznnvmt ivqt tvmyn, viy di jmyzm oj apmidnc v xjhkgzoz viy
xjhkmzczindqz mzkjmo cvn mzazmmzy ocz lpznodji ja vgg ivqt tvmyn oj ocz
ejdio wjvmy ja ocz Vmht viy Ivqt. Ocdn wjvmy rdgg ncjmogt hvfz don mzkjmo
viy ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt vyqdnzn hz ocvo cdn mzxjhhziyvodjin ji ocz
npwezxo rdgg wz kmznziozy zvmgt di ocz xjhdib tzvm. Ocz hzvnpmz ja zxjijht
xjiovdizy di v kmjkzm cviygdib ja ocdn npwezxo dn nj bmzvo viy nj dhkjmovio
oj ocz diozmznon ja ocz Ivodji ocvo D ncvgg kmznzio do oj Xjibmznn vn v
nzkvmvoz npwezxo vkvmo amjh ht viipvg hznnvbz. Xjixziomvodji ja ocz
izxznnvmt rjmf ajm ivqvg qznnzgn di v azr ivqt tvmyn ji zvxc xjvno dn v
qdovg izxznndot da kmjkzm zxjijht di Bjqzmihzio zskziydopmzn dn oj wz
voovdizy.

VHVGBVHVODJI JA NOVAA XJMKN DI OCZ IVQT.

Ocz Nzxmzovmt ja ocz Ivqt dn nomdqdib oj pidat ocz qvmdjpn xjmkn ja ocz
Ivqt oj ocz zsozio kjnndwgz viy oczmzwt nodhpgvoz v Ivqt nkdmdo vn
ydnodibpdnczy amjh v xjmkn nkdmdo. Di ocdn cz cvn ht rvmh npkkjmo.

Vgg jaadxzmn vmz oj wz ivqvg jaadxzmn admno viy nkzxdvgdnon vaozmrvmyn.
Ocdn hzvin ocvo jaadxzmn rdgg ovfz pk vo gzvno jiz nkzxdvgot, npxc vn
jmyivixz, xjinompxodji, jm zibdizzmdib. Ocdn dn kmvxodxvggt rcvo dn yjiz
ijr, jigt njhz ja ocz nkzxdvgdnon, gdfz ocz kvt jaadxzmn viy ivqvg
xjinompxojmn, vmz ijo ja ocz gdiz. Do dn kmjkjnzy oj hvfz oczh vgg ja ocz
gdiz.

Vgg xjhwvovio xjmkn ncjpgy jwqdjpngt wz ja ocz gdiz. Ocdn izxznndovozn
vhvgbvhvodib ocz kvt jaadxzmn viy vgnj ocjnz zibvbzy di ocz ozxcidxvg rjmf
ja kmjypxdib ocz adidnczy ncdk. Ocdn dn vo kmznzio ocz xvnz rdoc ocz ndibgz
zsxzkodji ja ocz ivqvg xjinompxojmn, rcjh do dn ijr kmjkjnzy oj vhvgbvhvoz
rdoc ocz gdiz.

XJPIXDG JA IVODJIVG YZAZINZ.

D pmbz vbvdi pkji Xjibmznn ocz yzndmvwdgdot ja znovwgdncdib ocz xjpixdg ja
ivodjivg yzazinz. Ocz wdgg oj znovwgdnc ocdn xjpixdg rvn wzajmz Xjibmznn
gvno rdiozm, viy do dn cjkzy ocvo ocdn gzbdngvodji rdgg kvnn ypmdib ocz
kmznzio nznndji. Ocz kpmkjnz ja ocz xjpixdg dn oj yzozmhdiz ocz bzizmvg
kjgdxt ja ivodjivg yzazinz viy oj mzxjhhziy oj Xjibmznn viy oj ocz
Kmzndyzio npxc hzvnpmzn mzgvodib oj do vn do ncvgg yzzh izxznnvmt viy
zskzydzio.

Ij npxc hvxcdizmt dn ijr kmjqdyzy wt rcdxc ocz mzvydiznn ja ocz Vmht viy
Ivqt hvt wz dhkmjqzy viy ocz kmjbmvhn ja hdgdovmt viy ivqvg mzlpdmzhzion
ncvgg wz xjjmydivozy viy kmjkzmgt nxmpodiduzy rdoc v qdzr ja ocz
izxznndodzn ja ocz rcjgz Ivodji mvoczm ocvi ja nzkvmvoz yzkvmohzion.

YZKVMOHZION JA VBMDXPGOPMZ VIY XJHHZMXZ VIY GVWJM.

Ajm ocz xjindyzmvodji ja hvoozmn rcdxc vmz kziydib jm cvqz wzzi ydnkjnzy ja
di ocz Vbmdxpgopmvg Yzkvmohzio viy di ocz Yzkvmohzio ja Xjhhzmxz viy Gvwjm,
D mzazm oj ocz qzmt zsxzggzio mzkjmon ja ocz Nzxmzovmdzn ja ocjnz
yzkvmohzion. D ncvgg ijo wz vwgz oj npwhdo oj Xjibmznn piodg vaozm ocz
Xcmdnohvn cjgdyvtn ocz lpznodji ja xjinzmqvodji ja jpm mznjpmxzn vmdndib di
Vgvnfv viy ocz Rzno viy ocz lpznodji ja ocz mvoz ajm nzxjiy-xgvnn hvdg
hvoozm di ocz Kjno Jaadxz Yzkvmohzio.

XJHHDNNDJI JI ZAADXDZIXT VIY ZXJIJHT.

Ocz gvr yjzn ijo mzlpdmz ocz npwhdnndji ja ocz mzkjmon ja ocz Xjhhdnndji ji
Zxjijht viy Zaadxdzixt piodg ocz 31no ja Yzxzhwzm. D ncvgg oczmzajmz ijo wz
vwgz oj npwhdo v mzkjmo ja ocz rjmf ja ocvo xjhhdnndji piodg ocz vnnzhwgdib
ja Xjibmznn vaozm ocz cjgdyvtn.

XDQDG MZODMZHZIO VIY XJIOMDWPOJMT KZINDJI NTNOZH.

D cvqz vgmzvyt vyqjxvozy, di ht gvno viipvg hznnvbz, ocz vyjkodji ja v
xdqdg-nzmqdxz mzodmzhzio ntnozh, rdoc v xjiomdwpojmt azvopmz oj do nj vn oj
mzypxz oj v hdidhph ocz xjno oj ocz Bjqzmihzio ja ocz kzindjin oj wz kvdy.
Vaozm xjindyzmvwgz mzagzxodji, D vh qzmt hpxc jkkjnzy oj v kzindji ntnozh
ocvo diqjgqzn ij xjiomdwpodji amjh ocz zhkgjtzzn. D ocdif ocz zskzmdzixz ja
joczm bjqzmihzion epnodadzn ocdn qdzr; wpo ocz xmtdib izxznndot ajm njhz
npxc xjiomdwpojmt ntnozh, rdoc kjnndwgt v kmzgdhdivmt bjqzmihziovg jpogvt,
di jmyzm oj xjqzm ocz didodvg xjno viy oj nzo ocz ntnozh bjdib vo jixz
rcdgz ocz xjiomdwpodjin vmz vxxphpgvodib, dn hvidazno ji zqzmt ndyz.
Ijocdib rdgg nj hpxc kmjhjoz ocz zxjijht viy zaadxdzixt ja ocz Bjqzmihzio
vn npxc v ntnozh.

ZGDHDIVODJI JA VGG GJXVG JAADXZN AMJH KJGDODXN.

D rdnc oj mzizr vbvdi ht mzxjhhziyvodji ocvo vgg ocz gjxvg jaadxzn
ocmjpbcjpo ocz xjpiomt, dixgpydib xjggzxojmn ja diozmivg mzqzipz,
xjggzxojmn ja xpnojhn, kjnohvnozmn ja vgg ajpm xgvnnzn, dhhdbmvodji
xjhhdnndjizmn viy hvmncvgn, ncjpgy wz wt gvr xjqzmzy dioj ocz xgvnndadzy
nzmqdxz, ocz izxznndot ajm xjiadmhvodji wt ocz Nzivoz wz mzhjqzy, viy ocz
Kmzndyzio viy ocz joczmn, rcjnz odhz dn ijr ovfzi pk di ydnomdwpodib ocdn
kvomjivbz piyzm ocz xpnojh ocvo cvn kmzqvdgzy ndixz ocz wzbdiidib ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio di vxxjmyvixz rdoc ocz mzxjhhziyvodji ja ocz Nzivojmn viy
Xjibmznnhzi ja ocz hvejmdot kvmot, ncjpgy wz mzgdzqzy amjh ocdn wpmyzi. D
vh xjiadyzio ocvo npxc v xcvibz rjpgy bmzvogt mzypxz ocz xjno ja
vyhdidnozmdib ocz Bjqzmihzio, viy ocvo do rjpgy vyy bmzvogt oj don
zaadxdzixt. Do rjpgy ovfz vrvt ocz kjrzm oj pnz ocz kvomjivbz ja ocz
Bjqzmihzio ajm kjgdodxvg kpmkjnzn. Rczi jaadxzmn vmz mzxjhhziyzy wt
Nzivojmn viy Xjibmznnhzi amjh kjgdodxvg hjodqzn viy ajm kjgdodxvg nzmqdxzn
mziyzmzy, do dn dhkjnndwgz oj zskzxo ocvo rcdgz di jaadxz ocz vkkjdiozzn
rdgg ijo mzbvmy oczdm ozipmz vn hjmz jm gznn yzkziyzio pkji xjiodipzy
kjgdodxvg nzmqdxz ajm oczdm kvomjin, viy ij mzbpgvodjin, cjrzqzm nodaa jm
mdbdy, rdgg kmzqzio ocdn, wzxvpnz npxc mzbpgvodjin, di qdzr ja ocz hzocjy
viy hjodqz ajm nzgzxodji, vmz kgvdigt dixjindnozio viy yzzhzy cvmygt rjmoct
ja mznkzxo.