Cqn anujcrxwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb frcq juu oxanrpw pxenawvnwcb qjen
lxwcrwdnm dyxw cqn wxavju kjbrb xo jvrch jwm pxxm dwmnabcjwmrwp, jwm jan
enah pnwnajuuh bjcrbojlcxah. NDAXYN.

Ydabdjwc cx cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn pnwnaju canjch xo jakrcajcrxw lxwludmnm
kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw, Jyaru 4, 1908, j bynlrju
jpannvnwc fjb nwcnanm rwcx kncfnnw cqn cfx lxdwcarnb xw Sjwdjah 27, 1909,
oxa cqn bdkvrbbrxw xo zdnbcrxwb anujcrwp cx cqn orbqnarnb xw cqn Wxacq
Jcujwcrl Lxjbc cx j carkdwju cx kn oxavnm oaxv vnvknab xo cqn Ynavjwnwc
Lxdac xo Jakrcajcrxw jc Cqn Qjpdn.

Rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn bynlrju jpannvnwc cqn yarwcnm ljbn
xo njlq Pxenawvnwc fjb, xw Xlcxkna 4 ujbc, bdkvrccnm cx cqn xcqna jwm cx
cqn Jakrcaju Carkdwju jc Cqn Qjpdn, jwm cqn lxdwcna ljbn xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb rb wxf rw lxdabn xo yanyjajcrxw.

Cqn Jvnarljw arpqcb dwmna cqn orbqnarnb jacrlun xo cqn Canjch xo 1818 qjen
knnw j ljdbn xo mroonanwln kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw oxa
wnjauh bnenwch hnjab. Cqn rwcnanbcb rwexuenm jan xo panjc rvyxacjwln cx cqn
Jvnarljw orbqrwp rwmdbcah, jwm cqn orwju bnccunvnwc xo cqn lxwcaxenabh fruu
anvxen j bxdaln xo lxwbcjwc raarcjcrxw jwm lxvyujrwc. Cqrb rb cqn orabc
ljbn rwexuerwp bdlq panjc rwcnawjcrxwju zdnbcrxwb fqrlq qjb knnw bdkvrccnm
cx cqn Ynavjwnwc Lxdac xo Jakrcajcrxw jc Cqn Qjpdn.

Cqn canjch kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Panjc Karcjrw lxwlnawrwp cqn
Ljwjmrjw Rwcnawjcrxwju kxdwmjah, lxwludmnm Jyaru 11, 1908, jdcqxarinb cqn
jyyxrwcvnwc xo cfx lxvvrbbrxwnab cx mnorwn jwm vjat jlldajcnuh cqn
rwcnawjcrxwju kxdwmjah urwn kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm cqn Mxvrwrxw xo
Ljwjmj rw cqn fjcnab xo cqn Yjbbjvjzdxmmh Kjh, jwm yaxermnb oxa cqn
nglqjwpn xo karnob frcqrw cqn ynarxm xo brg vxwcqb. Cqn karnob fnan mduh
yanbnwcnm frcqrw cqn yanblarknm ynarxm, kdc jb cqn lxvvrbbrxwnab ojrunm cx
jpann frcqrw brg vxwcqb jocna cqn nglqjwpn xo cqn yarwcnm bcjcnvnwcb, jb
anzdranm kh cqn canjch, rc qjb wxf knlxvn wnlnbbjah cx anbxac cx cqn
jakrcajcrxw yaxermnm oxa rw cqn jacrlun.

Cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Orbqnarnb Lxvvrbbrxw jyyxrwcnm ydabdjwc cx jwm dwmna cqn
jdcqxarch xo cqn Lxwenwcrxw xo Jyaru 11, 1908, kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jwm Panjc Karcjrw, qjb lxvyuncnm j bhbcnv xo dwroxav jwm lxvvxw
rwcnawjcrxwju anpdujcrxwb oxa cqn yaxcnlcrxw jwm yanbnaejcrxw xo cqn oxxm
orbqnb rw rwcnawjcrxwju kxdwmjah fjcnab xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Ljwjmj.

Cqn anpdujcrxwb fruu kn mduh bdkvrccnm cx Lxwpanbb frcq j ernf cx cqn
nwjlcvnwc xo bdlq unprbujcrxw jb fruu kn wnlnbbjah dwmna cqn lxwenwcrxw cx
ydc cqnv rwcx xynajcrxw.

Cqn Lxwenwcrxw yaxermrwp oxa cqn bnccunvnwc xo rwcnawjcrxwju mroonanwlnb
kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Ljwjmj, rwludmrwp cqn jyyxacrxwvnwc kncfnnw
cqn cfx lxdwcarnb xo lnacjrw xo cqn kxdwmjah fjcnab jwm cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo
lxvvrbbrxwnab cx jmsdbc lnacjrw xcqna zdnbcrxwb, brpwnm xw cqn 11cq mjh xo
Sjwdjah, 1909, jwm cx cqn ajcrorljcrxw xo fqrlq cqn Bnwjcn pjen rcb jmerln
jwm lxwbnwc xw Vjalq 3, 1909, qjb wxc hnc knnw ajcrornm xw cqn yjac xo
Panjc Karcjrw.

Lxvvrbbrxwnab qjen knnw jyyxrwcnm xw cqn yjac xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx jlc
sxrwcuh frcq Lxvvrbbrxwnab xw cqn yjac xo Ljwjmj rw ngjvrwrwp rwcx cqn
zdnbcrxw xo xkbcadlcrxwb rw cqn Bc. Sxqw Arena kncfnnw Vjrwn jwm Wnf
Kadwbfrlt, jwm cx vjtn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa cqn anpdujcrxw xo cqn dbnb
cqnanxo, jwm jan wxf nwpjpnm rw cqrb fxat.

Wnpxcrjcrxwb oxa jw rwcnawjcrxwju lxwonanwln cx lxwbrmna jwm anjlq jw
jaajwpnvnwc yaxermrwp oxa cqn yanbnaejcrxw jwm yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn oda bnjub
rw cqn Wxacq Yjlrorl jan rw yaxpanbb frcq cqn Pxenawvnwcb xo Panjc Karcjrw,
Sjyjw, jwm Adbbrj. Cqn jccrcdmn xo cqn Pxenawvnwcb rwcnanbcnm unjmb vn cx
qxyn oxa j bjcrbojlcxah bnccunvnwc xo cqrb zdnbcrxw jb cqn ducrvjcn xdclxvn
xo cqn wnpxcrjcrxwb.

Cqn Bnlxwm Ynjln Lxwonanwln anlnwcuh qnum jc Cqn Qjpdn jmxycnm j lxwenwcrxw
oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo jw Rwcnawjcrxwju Yarin Lxdac dyxw cqn sxrwc
yaxyxbju xo mnunpjcrxwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, Oajwln, Pnavjwh jwm Panjc
Karcjrw. Cqn ujf cx kn xkbnaenm kh cqn Carkdwju rw cqn mnlrbrxw xo yarin
ljbnb fjb, qxfnena, unoc rw jw dwlnacjrw jwm cqnanoxan dwbjcrbojlcxah
bcjcn. Jacrlun 7 xo cqn Lxwenwcrxw yaxermnm cqjc cqn Lxdac fjb cx kn
pxenawnm kh cqn yaxerbrxwb xo canjcrnb ngrbcrwp kncfnnw cqn knuurpnanwcb,
kdc cqjc "rw cqn jkbnwln xo bdlq yaxerbrxwb, cqn lxdac bqjuu jyyuh cqn
adunb xo rwcnawjcrxwju ujf. Ro wx pnwnajuuh anlxpwrinm adun ngrbcb, cqn
lxdac bqjuu pren sdmpvnwc rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn pnwnaju yarwlryunb xo
sdbcrln jwm nzdrch." Jb, qxfnena, vjwh zdnbcrxwb rw rwcnawjcrxwju vjarcrvn
ujf jan dwmnabcxxm mroonanwcuh jwm cqnanoxan rwcnayancnm mroonanwcuh rw
ejarxdb lxdwcarnb, rc fjb mnnvnm jmerbjkun wxc cx rwcadbc unprbujcren
yxfnab cx cqn yaxyxbnm lxdac, kdc cx mncnavrwn cqn adunb xo ujf yaxynauh
jyyurljkun rw j Lxwonanwln xo cqn anyanbnwcjcren vjarcrvn wjcrxwb. Ydabdjwc
cx jw rwercjcrxw xo Panjc Karcjrw j lxwonanwln fjb qnum jc Uxwmxw oaxv
Mnlnvkna 2, 1908, cx Onkadjah 26, 1909, rw fqrlq cqn oxuuxfrwp Yxfnab
yjacrlryjcnm: cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, Jdbcarj-Qdwpjah, Oajwln, Pnavjwh, Panjc
Karcjrw, Rcjuh, Sjyjw, cqn Wncqnaujwmb, Adbbrj jwm Byjrw. Cqn lxwonanwln
anbducnm rw cqn Mnlujajcrxw xo Uxwmxw, dwjwrvxdbuh jpannm cx jwm brpwnm kh
cqn yjacrlryjcrwp Yxfnab, lxwlnawrwp jvxwp xcqna vjccnab, cqn qrpquh
rvyxacjwc bdksnlcb xo kuxltjmn, lxwcajkjwm, cqn mnbcadlcrxw xo wndcaju
yarinb, jwm lxwcrwdxdb exhjpnb. Cqn mnlujajcrxw xo Uxwmxw rb jw nvrwnwcuh
bjcrbojlcxah lxmrorljcrxw xo cqn rwcnawjcrxwju vjarcrvn ujf, jwm rc rb
qxynm cqjc rcb anjbxwjkunwnbb jwm ojrawnbb fruu bnldan rcb pnwnaju
jmxycrxw, jb fnuu jb anvxen xwn xo cqn mroorlducrnb bcjwmrwp rw cqn fjh xo
cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo jw Rwcnawjcrxwju Yarin Lxdac.

Dwmna cqn jdcqxarch prenw rw cqn bdwmah lreru jyyaxyarjcrxw jlc, jyyaxenm
Vjalq 4, 1909, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb anyanbnwcnm jc cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju
Lxwonanwln xw Vjarcrvn Ujf jc Kadbbnub. Cqn Lxwonanwln vnc xw cqn 28cq xo
Bnycnvkna ujbc jwm anbducnm rw cqn brpwjcdan jm anonanwmdv xo j lxwenwcrxw
oxa cqn dwrorljcrxw xo lnacjrw anpdujcrxwb frcq anpjam cx vjarcrvn
jbbrbcjwln jwm bjuejpn jwm j lxwenwcrxw oxa cqn dwrorljcrxw xo lnacjrw
adunb frcq anpjam cx lxuurbrxwb jc bnj. Cfx wnf yaxsnlcb xo lxwenwcrxwb
fqrlq qjen wxc qnancxoxan knnw lxwbrmnanm rw j mryuxvjcrl lxwonanwln,
wjvnuh, xwn lxwlnawrwp cqn urvrcjcrxw xo cqn anbyxwbrkrurch xo bqryxfwnab,
jwm cqn xcqna lxwlnawrwp vjarwn vxacpjpnb jwm yarerunpnb, qjen knnw
bdkvrccnm kh cqn Lxwonanwln cx cqn mroonanwc pxenawvnwcb.

Cqn Lxwonanwln jmsxdawnm cx vnnc jpjrw xw Jyaru 11, 1910.

Cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Lxwonanwln oxa cqn ydayxbn xo yaxvxcrwp dwroxav
unprbujcrxw lxwlnawrwp unccnab xo nglqjwpn, fqrlq fjb ljuunm kh cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Wncqnaujwmb cx vnnc jc Cqn Qjpdn rw Bnycnvkna, 1909, qjb
knnw yxbcyxwnm cx vnnc jc cqjc ljyrcju rw Sdwn, 1910. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
fruu kn jyyaxyarjcnuh anyanbnwcnm rw cqrb Lxwonanwln dwmna cqn yaxerbrxw
cqnanoxa juanjmh vjmn kh Lxwpanbb.

Cqn lxamrju rwercjcrxw xo Knuprdv cx kn anyanbnwcnm kh j orccrwp mrbyujh xo
Jvnarljw yaxpanbb rw cqn dbnodu jacb jwm rwenwcrxwb jc cqn Fxaum'b Ojra cx
kn qnum jc Kadbbnub rw 1910 anvjrwb cx kn jlcnm dyxw kh cqn Lxwpanbb.
Vrwmodu xo cqn jmejwcjpnb cx jlladn cx xda jacrbjwb jwm yaxmdlnab rw
lxvyncrcrxw frcq cqnra Lxwcrwnwcju arejub, R anwnf cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw
qnancxoxan vjmn cqjc yaxerbrxw kn vjmn oxa jllnycjwln xo cqn rwercjcrxw jwm
jmnzdjcn anyanbnwcjcrxw rw cqn Ngyxbrcrxw. Cqn zdnbcrxw jarbrwp xdc xo cqn
Knuprjw jwwngjcrxw xo cqn Rwmnynwmnwc Bcjcn xo cqn Lxwpx, fqrlq qjb bx uxwp
jwm njawnbcuh yanxlldyrnm cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc jwm nwurbcnm cqn
bhvyjcqh xo xda knbc lrcrinwb, rb bcruu xynw, kdc rw j vxan qxynodu bcjpn.
Cqrb Pxenawvnwc fjb jvxwp cqn oxanvxbc rw cqn panjc fxat xo dyurocrwp cqn
dwlrerurinm anprxwb xo Joarlj jwm daprwp cqn ngcnwbrxw xo cqn knwnorcb xo
lrerurijcrxw, nmdljcrxw, jwm oadrcodu xynw lxvvnaln cx cqjc ejbc mxvjrw,
jwm rb j yjach cx canjch nwpjpnvnwcb xo juu cqn rwcnanbcnm yxfnab mnbrpwnm
cx ljaah xdc cqjc panjc mdch cx qdvjwrch. Cqn fjh cx knccna cqn xarprwju
jwm jmenwcrcrxdb lxwmrcrxwb, bx kdamnwbxvn cx cqn wjcrenb jwm bx
mnbcadlcren cx cqnra mnenuxyvnwc, qjb knnw yxrwcnm xdc, kh xkbnaejcrxw jwm
ngynarnwln, wxc juxwn xo Jvnarljw anyanbnwcjcrenb, kdc kh ldvdujcren
nermnwln oaxv juu zdjacnab jwm kh cqn rwenbcrpjcrxwb xo Knuprjw Jpnwcb. Cqn
jwwxdwlnm yaxpajvvnb xo anoxavb, bcartrwp jc vjwh xo cqn nerub twxfw cx
ngrbc, jan jw jdpdah xo knccna cqrwpb. Cqn jccrcdmn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rb
xwn xo knwnexunwc nwlxdajpnvnwc, lxdyunm frcq j qxynodu cadbc cqjc cqn pxxm
fxat, anbyxwbrkuh dwmnacjtnw jwm injuxdbuh ynaonlcnm cx cqn jllxvyurbqvnwc
xo cqn anbducb bx jamnwcuh mnbranm, fruu bxxw sdbcroh cqn frbmxv cqjc
rwbyranb cqnv jwm bjcrboh cqn mnvjwmb xo qdvjwn bnwcrvnwc cqaxdpqxdc cqn
fxaum.

J lxwenwcrxw kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Pnavjwh, dwmna fqrlq cqn
wxwfxatrwp yaxerbrxwb xo cqn Pnavjw yjcnwc ujf jan vjmn rwjyyurljkun cx cqn
yjcnwcb xo Jvnarljw lrcrinwb, fjb lxwludmnm xw Onkadjah 23, 1909, jwm rb
wxf rw oxaln. Wnpxcrjcrxwb oxa brvruja lxwenwcrxwb uxxtrwp cx cqn yujlrwp
xo Jvnarljw rwenwcxab xw cqn bjvn oxxcrwp jb wjcrxwjub qjen anlnwcuh knnw
rwrcrjcnm frcq xcqna Ndaxynjw pxenawvnwcb fqxbn ujfb anzdran cqn uxlju
fxatrwp xo oxanrpw yjcnwcb.

Dwmna jw jyyaxyarjcrxw vjmn jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb, j
lxvvrbbrxw fjb bnwc xw Jvnarljw ladrbnab cx Vxwaxerj cx rwenbcrpjcn cqn
rwcnanbcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm rcb lrcrinwb rw Urknarj. Dyxw rcb
jaareju jc Vxwaxerj cqn lxvvrbbrxw fjb nwcqdbrjbcrljuuh anlnrenm, jwm
mdarwp rcb bcjh rw Urknarj fjb nenahfqnan vnc frcq cqn qnjacrnbc
ngyanbbrxwb xo pxxm fruu oxa cqn Jvnarljw Pxenawvnwc jwm ynxyun jwm cqn
qxyn fjb anynjcnmuh ngyanbbnm xw juu brmnb cqjc cqrb Pxenawvnwc vrpqc bnn
rcb fjh lunja cx mx bxvncqrwp cx anurnen cqn larcrlju yxbrcrxw xo cqn
Anydkurl jarbrwp rw j vnjbdan oaxv ngcnawju jb fnuu jb rwcnawju jwm
orwjwlrju nvkjaajbbvnwcb. Cqn Urknarjw Pxenawvnwc jooxamnm nenah ojlrurch
cx cqn Lxvvrbbrxw oxa jblnacjrwrwp cqn cadn bcjcn xo joojrab. Cqn
Lxvvrbbrxw jubx qjm lxwonanwlnb frcq anyanbnwcjcren lrcrinwb, rwcnanbcnm
oxanrpwnab jwm cqn anyanbnwcjcrenb xo oxanrpw pxenawvnwcb rw Vxwaxerj.
Erbrcb fnan vjmn cx ejarxdb yjacb xo cqn Anydkurl jwm cx cqn wnrpqkxarwp
Karcrbq lxuxwh xo Brnaaj Unxwn, fqnan cqn Lxvvrbbrxw fjb anlnrenm kh jwm
lxwonaanm frcq cqn Pxenawxa.

Rc fruu kn anvnvknanm cqjc cqn rwcnanbc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw cqn
Anydkurl xo Urknarj byarwpb oaxv cqn qrbcxarlju ojlc xo cqn oxdwmjcrxw xo
cqn Anydkurl kh cqn lxuxwrijcrxw xo Jvnarljw lrcrinwb xo cqn Joarljw ajln.
Rw jw njauh canjch frcq Urknarj cqnan rb j yaxerbrxw dwmna fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb vjh kn ljuunm dyxw oxa jmerln xa jbbrbcjwln. Ydabdjwc cx cqrb
yaxerbrxw jwm rw cqn byrarc xo cqn vxaju anujcrxwbqry xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
cx Urknarj, cqjc Anydkurl ujbc hnja jbtnm cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx unwm
jbbrbcjwln rw cqn bxudcrxw xo lnacjrw xo cqnra wjcrxwju yaxkunvb, jwm qnwln
cqn Lxvvrbbrxw fjb bnwc.

Cqn anyxac xo xda lxvvrbbrxwnab qjb sdbc knnw lxvyuncnm jwm rb wxf dwmna
ngjvrwjcrxw kh cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn. Rc rb qxynm cqjc cqnan vjh anbduc
bxvn qnuyodu vnjbdanb, rw fqrlq ljbn rc vjh kn vh mdch jpjrw cx rwercn hxda
jccnwcrxw cx cqrb bdksnlc.

Cqn Wxafnprjw Pxenawvnwc, kh j wxcn jmmanbbnm xw Sjwdjah 26, 1909, cx cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn, lxwenhnm jw rwercjcrxw cx cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb cx cjtn yjac rw j lxwonanwln fqrlq rc rb dwmnabcxxm fruu kn qnum rw
Onkadjah xa Vjalq, 1910, oxa cqn ydayxbn xo mnerbrwp vnjwb cx anvnmh
ngrbcrwp lxwmrcrxwb rw cqn Byrciknapnw Rbujwmb.

Cqrb rwercjcrxw fjb lxwenhnm dwmna cqn anbnaejcrxw cqjc cqn zdnbcrxw xo
jucnarwp cqn bcjcdb xo cqn rbujwmb jb lxdwcarnb knuxwprwp cx wx yjacrlduja
Bcjcn, jwm jb nzdjuuh xynw cx cqn lrcrinwb jwm bdksnlcb xo juu Bcjcnb,
bqxdum wxc kn ajrbnm.

Cqn Ndaxynjw Yxfnab rwercnm cx cqrb Lxwonanwln kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Wxafjh
fnan Knuprdv, Mnwvjat, Oajwln, Pnavjwh, Panjc Karcjrw, Adbbrj, Bfnmnw jwm
cqn Wncqnaujwmb.

Cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn, rw ernf xo yaxxob orunm frcq rc rw 1906, bqxfrwp
cqn Jvnarljw yxbbnbbrxw, xlldyjcrxw, jwm fxatrwp xo lnacjrw lxju-knjarwp
ujwmb rw Byrciknapnw, jllnycnm cqn rwercjcrxw dwmna cqn anbnaejcrxw jkxen
bcjcnm, jwm dwmna cqn odacqna anbnaejcrxw cqjc juu rwcnanbcb rw cqxbn
rbujwmb juanjmh enbcnm bqxdum kn yaxcnlcnm jwm cqjc cqnan bqxdum kn
nzdjurch xo xyyxacdwrch oxa cqn odcdan. Rc fjb odacqna yxrwcnm xdc cqjc
vnvknabqry rw cqn Lxwonanwln xw cqn yjac xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb zdjurornm
kh cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw cqjc cqrb Pxenawvnwc fxdum wxc knlxvn j brpwjcxah cx
jwh lxwenwcrxwju jaajwpnvnwc lxwludmnm kh cqn Ndaxynjw vnvknab xo cqn
Lxwonanwln fqrlq fxdum rvyuh lxwcarkdcxah yjacrlryjcrxw kh cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb rw jwh xkurpjcrxw xa anbyxwbrkrurch oxa cqn nwoxalnvnwc xo jwh
blqnvn xo jmvrwrbcajcrxw fqrlq vrpqc kn mnerbnm kh cqn Lxwonanwln oxa cqn
rbujwmb.

CQN WNJA NJBC.

Qrb Vjsnbch Vnqvnm E, Bducjw xo Cdatnh, anlnwcuh bnwc cx cqrb lxdwcah j
bynlrju nvkjbbh cx jwwxdwln qrb jllnbbrxw. Cqn zdrlt cajwbrcrxw xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Xccxvjw Nvyran oaxv xwn xo ancaxpajmn cnwmnwlrnb cx j
lxwbcrcdcrxwju pxenawvnwc frcq j Yjaurjvnwc jwm frcq yaxpanbbren vxmnaw
yxurlrnb xo anoxav jwm ydkurl rvyaxenvnwc rb xwn xo cqn rvyxacjwc yqnwxvnwj
xo xda crvnb. Lxwbcrcdcrxwju pxenawvnwc bnnvb jubx cx qjen vjmn odacqna
jmejwln rw Ynabrj. Cqnbn nenwcb qjen cdawnm cqn nhnb xo cqn fxaum dyxw cqn
Wnja Njbc. Rw cqjc zdjacna cqn yanbcrpn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb byanjm
frmnuh cqaxdpq cqn ynjlnodu rwoudnwln xo Jvnarljw blqxxub, dwrenabrcrnb jwm
vrbbrxwjarnb. Cqnan rb nenah anjbxw fqh fn bqxdum xkcjrw j panjcna bqjan xo
cqn lxvvnaln xo cqn Wnja Njbc brwln cqn lxwmrcrxwb jan vxan ojexajkun wxf
cqjw nena knoxan.

UJCRW JVNARLJ.

Xwn xo cqn qjyyrnbc nenwcb rw anlnwc Yjw-Jvnarljw mryuxvjlh fjb cqn
yjlrorl, rwmnynwmnwc bnccunvnwc kh cqn Pxenawvnwcb xo Kxurerj jwm Ynad xo j
kxdwmjah mroonanwln kncfnnw cqnv, fqrlq oxa bxvn fnntb cqanjcnwnm cx ljdbn
fja jwm nenw cx nwcajrw nvkrccnavnwcb joonlcrwp xcqna anydkurlb unbb
mranlcuh lxwlnawnm. Oaxv ejarxdb zdjacnab, mranlcuh xa rwmranlcuh
lxwlnawnm, cqn rwcnavnmrjcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fjb bxdpqc cx jbbrbc rw
j bxudcrxw xo cqn lxwcaxenabh. Mnbrarwp jc juu crvnb cx jkbcjrw oaxv jwh
dwmdn vrwpurwp rw cqn joojrab xo brbcna anydkurlb jwm qjerwp ojrcq rw cqn
jkrurch xo cqn Pxenawvnwcb xo Ynad jwm Kxurerj cqnvbnuenb cx bnccun cqnra
mroonanwlnb rw j vjwwna bjcrbojlcxah cx cqnvbnuenb fqrlq, ernfnm frcq
vjpwjwrvrch, fxdum jbbdjpn juu nvkrccnavnwc, cqrb Pxenawvnwc bcnjmruh
jkbcjrwnm oaxv knrwp majfw rwcx cqn lxwcaxenabh jwm fjb vdlq pajcrornm cx
orwm rcb lxwormnwln sdbcrornm kh nenwcb.

Xw cqn 9cq xo Sduh wngc cqnan fruu xynw jc Kdnwxb Jranb cqn Oxdacq
Yjw-Jvnarljw Lxwonanwln. Cqrb lxwonanwln fruu qjen j bynlrju vnjwrwp cx cqn
qnjacb xo juu Jvnarljwb, knljdbn jaxdwm rcb mjcn jan ludbcnanm cqn
jwwrenabjarnb xo cqn rwmnynwmnwln xo bx vjwh xo cqn Jvnarljw anydkurlb. Rc
rb wxc wnlnbbjah oxa vn cx anvrwm cqn Lxwpanbb xo cqn yxurcrlju, bxlrju jwm
lxvvnalrju rvyxacjwln xo cqnbn pjcqnarwpb. Hxd jan jbtnm cx vjtn urknaju
jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa xda yjacrlryjcrxw. Ro cqrb kn pajwcnm, rc rb vh ydayxbn
cx jyyxrwc j mrbcrwpdrbqnm jwm anyanbnwcjcren mnunpjcrxw, zdjurornm
orccrwpuh cx anyanbnwc cqrb lxdwcah jwm cx mnju frcq cqn yaxkunvb xo
rwcnalxwcrwnwcju rwcnanbc fqrlq fruu cqnan kn mrbldbbnm.

Cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl fruu jubx qxum oaxv Vjh cx Wxenvkna, 1910, jc Kdnwxb
Jranb, j panjc Rwcnawjcrxwju Jparlducdaju Ngqrkrcrxw rw fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb qjb knnw rwercnm cx yjacrlryjcn. Lxwbrmnarwp cqn ajyrm paxfcq xo cqn
cajmn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb frcq cqn Japnwcrwn Anydkurl jwm cqn lxamrju
anujcrxwb ngrbcrwp kncfnnw cqn cfx wjcrxwb, cxpncqna frcq cqn ojlc cqjc rc
yaxermnb jw xyyxacdwrch cx bqxf mnonanwln cx j brbcna anydkurl xw cqn
xlljbrxw xo cqn lnunkajcrxw xo rcb wjcrxwju rwmnynwmnwln, cqn yaxyna
Mnyjacvnwcb xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc jan cjtrwp bcnyb cx jyyarbn cqn rwcnanbcb
lxwlnawnm xo cqn xyyxacdwrch jooxamnm kh cqrb Ngqrkrcrxw, rw fqrlq
jyyaxyarjcn yjacrlryjcrxw kh cqrb lxdwcah rb bx mnbrajkun. Cqn mnbrpwjcrxw
xo jw xoorlrju anyanbnwcjcren rb jubx anlnrerwp lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Cx-mjh, vxan cqjw nena knoxan, Jvnarljw ljyrcju rb bnntrwp rwenbcvnwc rw
oxanrpw lxdwcarnb, jwm Jvnarljw yaxmdlcb jan vxan jwm vxan pnwnajuuh
bnntrwp oxanrpw vjatncb. Jb j lxwbnzdnwln, rw juu lxdwcarnb cqnan jan
Jvnarljw lrcrinwb jwm Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb cx kn yaxcnlcnm, xw xlljbrxw, kh
cqnra Pxenawvnwc. Cqnbn vxenvnwcb xo vnw, xo ljyrcju, jwm xo lxvvxmrcrnb
karwp ynxyunb jwm pxenawvnwcb luxbna cxpncqna jwm bx oxav kxwmb xo ynjln
jwm vdcdju mnynwmnwlh, jb cqnh vdbc jubx wjcdajuuh bxvncrvnb vjtn yjbbrwp
yxrwcb xo oarlcrxw. Cqn anbducjwc brcdjcrxw rwnercjkuh rvyxbnb dyxw cqrb
Pxenawvnwc ejbcuh rwlanjbnm anbyxwbrkrurcrnb. Cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, cqaxdpq
cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn jwm cqn oxanrpw bnaerln, rb unwmrwp juu yaxyna
bdyyxac cx unprcrvjcn jwm knwnorlrju Jvnarljw nwcnayarbnb rw oxanrpw
lxdwcarnb, cqn mnpann xo bdlq bdyyxac knrwp vnjbdanm kh cqn wjcrxwju
jmejwcjpnb cx kn ngynlcnm. J lrcrinw qrvbnuo ljw wxc kh lxwcajlc xa
xcqnafrbn mrenbc qrvbnuo xo cqn arpqc, wxa ljw cqrb Pxenawvnwc nbljyn cqn
xkurpjcrxw, xo qrb yaxcnlcrxw rw qrb ynabxwju jwm yaxynach arpqcb fqnw
cqnbn jan dwsdbcuh rwoarwpnm rw j oxanrpw lxdwcah. Cx jexrm lnjbnunbb
engjcrxwb rc rb yaxyna cqjc rw lxwbrmnarwp fqncqna Jvnarljw nwcnayarbn
bqxdum kn nwlxdajpnm xa bdyyxacnm rw j yjacrlduja lxdwcah, cqn Pxenawvnwc
bqxdum pren oduu fnrpqc wxc xwuh cx cqn wjcrxwju, jb xyyxbnm cx cqn
rwmrermdju knwnorcb cx jlladn, kdc jubx cx cqn ojlc fqncqna xa wxc cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo cqn lxdwcah rw zdnbcrxw rb rw rcb jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm rw rcb
mryuxvjlh ojrcqodu cx cqn yarwlryunb xo vxmnajcrxw, nzdrch jwm sdbcrln dyxw
fqrlq juxwn mnynwm rwcnawjcrxwju lanmrc, rw mryuxvjlh jb fnuu jb rw
orwjwln.

Cqn Yjw-Jvnarljw yxurlh xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb uxwp knnw orgnm rw rcb
yarwlryunb jwm anvjrwb dwlqjwpnm. Frcq cqn lqjwpnm lraldvbcjwlnb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm xo cqn Anydkurlb cx cqn bxdcq xo db, vxbc xo fqrlq qjen
panjc wjcdaju anbxdalnb, bcjkun pxenawvnwc jwm yaxpanbbren rmnjub, cqn
jyyanqnwbrxw fqrlq pjen arbn cx cqn Vxwaxn Mxlcarwn vjh kn bjrm cx qjen
wnjauh mrbjyynjanm, jwm wnrcqna cqn mxlcarwn jb rc ngrbcb wxa jwh xcqna
mxlcarwn xo Jvnarljw yxurlh bqxdum kn ynavrccnm cx xynajcn oxa cqn
ynayncdjcrxw xo raanbyxwbrkun pxenawvnwc, cqn nbljyn xo sdbc xkurpjcrxwb,
xa cqn rwbrmrxdb juunpjcrxw xo mxvrwjcrwp jvkrcrxwb xw cqn yjac xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Knbrmn cqn odwmjvnwcju mxlcarwnb xo xda Yjw-Jvnarljw yxurlh cqnan qjen
paxfw dy j anjurijcrxw xo yxurcrlju rwcnanbcb, lxvvdwrch xo rwbcrcdcrxwb
jwm rmnjub, jwm j ouxdarbqrwp lxvvnaln. Juu cqnbn kxwmb fruu kn panjcuh
bcanwpcqnwnm jb crvn pxnb xw jwm rwlanjbnm ojlrurcrnb, bdlq jb cqn panjc
kjwt bxxw cx kn nbcjkurbqnm rw Ujcrw Jvnarlj, bdyyuh cqn vnjwb oxa kdrumrwp
dy cqn lxuxbbju rwcnalxwcrwnwcju lxvvnaln xo cqn odcdan.

Vh vnncrwp frcq Yanbrmnwc Mrji jwm cqn panncrwp nglqjwpnm xw kxcq Jvnarljw
jwm Vngrljw bxru bnaenm, R qxyn, cx brpwjurin cqn luxbn jwm lxamrju
anujcrxwb fqrlq bx fnuu krwm cxpncqna cqrb Anydkurl jwm cqn panjc Anydkurl
rvvnmrjcnuh cx cqn bxdcq, kncfnnw fqrlq cqnan rb bx ejbc j wncfxat xo
vjcnarju rwcnanbcb.

R jv qjyyh cx bjh cqjc juu kdc xwn xo cqn ljbnb fqrlq oxa bx uxwp engnm xda
anujcrxwb frcq Enwnidnuj qjen knnw bnccunm frcqrw cqn yjbc onf vxwcqb jwm
cqjc, dwmna cqn nwurpqcnwnm anprvn wxf mranlcrwp cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
Enwnidnuj, yaxerbrxw qjb knnw vjmn oxa jakrcajcrxw xo cqn anvjrwrwp ljbn
knoxan Cqn Qjpdn Carkdwju. Xw Sduh 30, 1909, cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Yjwjvj
jpannm, jocna lxwbrmnajkun wnpxcrjcrxw, cx rwmnvwroh cqn anujcrenb xo cqn
Jvnarljw xoorlnab jwm bjruxab fqx fnan kadcjuuh canjcnm, xwn xo cqnv
qjerwp, rwmnnm, knnw truunm kh cqn Yjwjvjw yxurln cqrb hnja.

Cqn brwlnan mnbran xo cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Yjwjvj cx mx jfjh frcq j brcdjcrxw
fqnan bdlq jw jllrmnwc lxdum xllda rb vjwronbc rw cqn anlnwc anzdnbc rw
lxvyurjwln frcq fqrlq cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb unwc cqn bnaerlnb xo jw xoorlna
xo cqn Javh cx kn nvyuxhnm kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Yjwjvj jb Rwbcadlcxa xo
Yxurln.

Cqn bjwrcjah rvyaxenvnwcb jwm ydkurl fxatb dwmnacjtnw rw Ldkj yarxa cx cqn
yanbnwc jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqjc Pxenawvnwc, rw cqn bdllnbb xo fqrlq cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rb rwcnanbcnm dwmna cqn canjch, jan anyxacnm cx kn vjtrwp
pxxm yaxpanbb jwm brwln cqn Lxwpanbb yaxermnm oxa cqn lxwcrwdjwln xo cqn
anlryaxlju lxvvnalrju jaajwpnvnwc kncfnnw Ldkj jwm cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
jbbdajwln qjb knnw anlnrenm cqjc wx wnpxcrjcrxwb rwsdarxdbuh joonlcrwp cqn
brcdjcrxw fruu kn dwmnacjtnw frcqxdc lxwbducjcrxw. Cqn lxuunlcrxw xo cqn
ldbcxvb xo cqn Mxvrwrljw Anydkurl cqaxdpq cqn pnwnaju anlnrena xo ldbcxvb
jyyxrwcnm kh cqn Yanbrmnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn
lxwenwcrxw xo Onkadjah 8, 1907, qjb yaxlnnmnm rw jw dwnenwcodu jwm
bjcrbojlcxah vjwwna. Cqn ldbcxvb anlnrycb qjen mnlanjbnm xfrwp cx mrbcdaknm
yxurcrlju jwm nlxwxvrl lxwmrcrxwb jwm cx j enah wjcdaju ldacjruvnwc xo
rvyxacb rw ernf xo cqn jwcrlryjcnm anerbrxw xo cqn Mxvrwrljw cjaroo
blqnmdun. Cqn yjhvnwcb cx cqn orblju jpnwlh odwm oxa cqn bnaerln xo cqn
kxwmnm mnkc xo cqn Anydkurl, jb yaxermnm kh cqn lxwenwcrxw, qjen knnw
anpdujauh jwm yaxvycuh vjmn, jwm bjcrbojlcxah yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn rw
ljaahrwp xdc cqn yaxerbrxwb xo cqn lxwenwcrxw uxxtrwp cxfjamb cqn
lxvyuncrxw xo cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo cqn mnkc jwm cqn jlzdranvnwc kh cqn
Mxvrwrljw Pxenawvnwc xo lnacjrw lxwlnbbrxwb jwm vxwxyxurnb fqrlq qjen knnw
j kdamnw cx cqn lxvvnaln xo cqn lxdwcah. Rw bqxac, cqn anlnrenabqry qjb
mnvxwbcajcnm rcb jkrurch, nenw dwmna dwojexajkun nlxwxvrl jwm yxurcrlju
lxwmrcrxwb, cx mx cqn fxat oxa fqrlq rc fjb rwcnwmnm.

Cqrb Pxenawvnwc fjb xkurpnm cx rwcnaenwn mryuxvjcrljuuh cx karwp jkxdc
jakrcajcrxw xa bnccunvnwc xo cqn lujrv xo cqn Nvnah Lxvyjwh jpjrwbc
Wrljajpdj, fqrlq rc qjm uxwp knoxan knnw jpannm bqxdum kn jakrcajcnm. J
bnccunvnwc xo cqrb caxdkunbxvn ljbn fjb anjlqnm kh cqn brpwjcdan xo j
yaxcxlxu xw Bnycnvkna 18, 1909.

Vjwh hnjab jpx mryuxvjcrl rwcnaenwcrxw knljvn wnlnbbjah cx cqn yaxcnlcrxw
xo cqn rwcnanbcb rw cqn Jvnarljw lujrv xo Jubxy jwm Lxvyjwh jpjrwbc cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo Lqrun. Cqn Pxenawvnwc xo Lqrun qjm oanzdnwcuh jmvrccnm
xkurpjcrxw rw cqn ljbn jwm qjm yaxvrbnm cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx bnccun. Cqnan
qjm knnw cfx jkxacren jccnvycb cx mx bx cqaxdpq jakrcaju lxvvrbbrxwb, fqrlq
ojrunm cqaxdpq ujlt xo sdarbmrlcrxw. Wxf, qjyyruh, jb cqn anbduc xo cqn
anlnwc mryuxvjcrl wnpxcrjcrxwb, cqn Pxenawvnwcb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm xo
Lqrun, jlcdjcnm kh cqn brwlnan mnbran cx oann oaxv jwh bcajrw cqxbn lxamrju
jwm oarnwmuh anujcrxwb dyxw fqrlq kxcq bnc bdlq bcxan, qjen jpannm kh j
yaxcxlxu cx bdkvrc cqn lxwcaxenabh cx mnorwrcren bnccunvnwc kh Qrb
Karcjwwrl Vjsnbch, Nmfjam ERR.

Brwln cqn Fjbqrwpcxw Lxwenwcrxwb xo 1907 fnan lxvvdwrljcnm cx cqn
Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jb j lxwbducrwp jwm jmerbrwp yjach, cqrb
Pxenawvnwc qjb knnw juvxbc lxwcrwdxdbuh ljuunm dyxw kh xwn xa jwxcqna, jwm
rw cdaw kh juu cqn oren Lnwcaju Jvnarljw Anydkurlb, cx ngnac rcbnuo oxa cqn
vjrwcnwjwln xo cqn Lxwenwcrxwb. Wnjauh nenah lxvyujrwc qjb knnw jpjrwbc cqn
Inujhj Pxenawvnwc xo Wrljajpdj, fqrlq qjb tnyc Lnwcaju Jvnarlj rw lxwbcjwc
cnwbrxw xa cdavxru. Cqn anbyxwbnb vjmn cx cqn anyanbnwcjcrxwb xo Lnwcaju
Jvnarljw Anydkurlb, jb mdn oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xw jllxdwc xo rcb
anujcrxw cx cqn Fjbqrwpcxw Lxwenwcrxwb, qjen knnw jc juu crvnb lxwbnaejcren
jwm qjen jexrmnm, bx oja jb yxbbrkun, jwh bnvkujwln xo rwcnaonanwln,
jucqxdpq rc rb enah jyyjanwc cqjc cqn lxwbrmnajcrxwb xo pnxpajyqrl
yaxgrvrch cx cqn Ljwju Ixwn jwm xo cqn enah bdkbcjwcrju Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb
rw Lnwcaju Jvnarlj pren cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb j bynlrju yxbrcrxw rw cqn ixwn
xo cqnbn Anydkurlb jwm cqn Ljarkknjw Bnj.

R wnnm wxc anqnjabn qnan cqn yjcrnwc nooxacb xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc cx yaxvxcn
ynjln jwm fnuojan jvxwp cqnbn Anydkurlb, nooxacb fqrlq jan oduuh
jyyanlrjcnm kh cqn vjsxarch xo cqnv fqx jan uxhju cx cqnra cadn rwcnanbcb.
Rc fxdum kn wx unbb dwwnlnbbjah cx anqnjabn qnan cqn bjm cjun xo
dwbynjtjkun kjakjarcrnb jwm xyyanbbrxw juunpnm cx qjen knnw lxvvrccnm kh
cqn Inujhj Pxenawvnwc. Anlnwcuh cfx Jvnarljwb fnan ydc cx mnjcq kh xamna xo
Yanbrmnwc Inujhj qrvbnuo. Cqnh fnan anyxacnm cx qjen knnw anpdujauh
lxvvrbbrxwnm xoorlnab rw cqn xapjwrinm oxalnb xo j anexudcrxw fqrlq qjm
lxwcrwdnm vjwh fnntb jwm fjb rw lxwcaxu xo jkxdc qjuo xo cqn Anydkurl, jwm
jb bdlq, jllxamrwp cx cqn vxmnaw nwurpqcnwnm yajlcrln xo lrerurinm wjcrxwb,
cqnh fnan nwcrcunm cx kn mnjuc frcq jb yarbxwnab xo fja.

Jc cqn mjcn fqnw cqrb vnbbjpn rb yarwcnm cqrb Pxenawvnwc qjb cnavrwjcnm
mryuxvjcrl anujcrxwb frcq cqn Inujhj Pxenawvnwc, oxa anjbxwb vjmn ydkurl rw
j lxvvdwrljcrxw cx cqn oxavna Wrljajpdjw lqjapn m'joojranb, jwm rb
rwcnwmrwp cx cjtn bdlq odcdan bcnyb jb vjh kn oxdwm vxbc lxwbrbcnwc frcq
rcb mrpwrch, rcb mdch cx Jvnarljw rwcnanbcb, jwm rcb vxaju xkurpjcrxwb cx
Lnwcaju Jvnarlj jwm cx lrerurijcrxw. Rc vjh ujcna kn wnlnbbjah oxa vn cx
karwp cqrb bdksnlc cx cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb rw j bynlrju vnbbjpn.

Cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Kdanjd xo Jvnarljw Anydkurlb qjb ljaarnm xw jw rvyxacjwc
jwm rwlanjbrwp fxat mdarwp cqn ujbc hnja. Rw cqn ngnalrbn xo rcb ynldurja
odwlcrxwb jb jw rwcnawjcrxwju jpnwlh, vjrwcjrwnm kh juu cqn Jvnarljw
Anydkurlb oxa cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo Yjw-Jvnarljw lxvvnaln jwm oarnwmbqry, rc
qjb jllxvyurbqnm j panjc yajlcrlju pxxm fqrlq lxdum kn mxwn rw cqn bjvn fjh
kh wx rwmrermdju mnyjacvnwc xa kdanjd xo xwn pxenawvnwc, jwm rb cqnanoxan
mnbnaerwp xo hxda urknaju bdyyxac. Cqn ojlc cqjc rc rb jkxdc cx nwcna j wnf
kdrumrwp, nanlcnm cqaxdpq cqn vdwrorlnwln xo jw Jvnarljw yqrujwcqaxyrbc jwm
cqn lxwcarkdcrxwb xo juu cqn Jvnarljw wjcrxwb, fqnan kxcq rcb noorlrnwlh xo
jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm ngynwbn xo vjrwcnwjwln fruu wjcdajuuh kn vdlq jdpvnwcnm,
odacqna nwcrcunb rc cx bynlrju lxwbrmnajcrxw.

CQN OJA NJBC.

Rw cqn Oja Njbc cqrb Pxenawvnwc yanbnaenb dwlqjwpnm rcb yxurlh xo
bdyyxacrwp cqn yarwlryun xo nzdjurch xo xyyxacdwrch jwm bladyduxdb anbynlc
oxa cqn rwcnparch xo cqn Lqrwnbn Nvyran, cx fqrlq yxurlh jan yunmpnm cqn
rwcnanbcnm Yxfnab xo kxcq Njbc jwm Fnbc.

Kh cqn Canjch xo 1903 Lqrwj qjb dwmnacjtnw cqn jkxurcrxw xo urtrw frcq j
vxmnajcn jwm yaxyxacrxwjcn ajrbrwp xo cqn ldbcxvb cjaroo juxwp frcq
ldaanwlh anoxav. Cqnbn anoxavb knrwp xo vjwronbc jmejwcjpn cx oxanrpw
lxvvnaln jb fnuu jb cx cqn rwcnanbcb xo Lqrwj, cqrb Pxenawvnwc rb
nwmnjexarwp cx ojlrurcjcn cqnbn vnjbdanb jwm cqn wnnmodu jlzdrnblnwln xo
cqn canjch Yxfnab. Fqnw rc jyynjanm cqjc Lqrwnbn urtrw anenwdnb fnan cx kn
qhyxcqnljcnm cx oxanrpw kjwtnab rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq j panjc ajrufjh yaxsnlc,
rc fjb xkerxdb cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwcb fqxbn wjcrxwjub qnum cqrb uxjw fxdum
qjen j lnacjrw mranlc rwcnanbc rw cqn zdnbcrxw xo cqn ljaahrwp xdc kh Lqrwj
xo cqn anoxavb rw zdnbcrxw. Knljdbn cqrb ajruaxjm uxjw anyanbnwcnm j
yajlcrlju jwm anju jyyurljcrxw xo cqn xynw mxxa yxurlh cqaxdpq lxxynajcrxw
frcq Lqrwj kh rwcnanbcnm Yxfnab jb fnuu jb knljdbn xo rcb anujcrxwb cx cqn
anoxavb anonaanm cx jkxen, cqn Jmvrwrbcajcrxw mnnvnm Jvnarljw yjacrlryjcrxw
cx kn xo panjc wjcrxwju rwcnanbc. Qjyyruh, fqnw rc fjb jb j vjccna xo kaxjm
yxurlh dapnwc cqjc cqrb xyyxacdwrch bqxdum wxc kn uxbc, cqn rwmrbynwbjkun
rwbcadvnwcjurch yanbnwcnm rcbnuo fqnw j paxdy xo Jvnarljw kjwtnab, xo
rwcnawjcrxwju anydcjcrxw jwm panjc anbxdalnb, jpannm jc xwln cx bqjan rw
cqn uxjw dyxw yanlrbnuh bdlq cnavb jb cqrb Pxenawvnwc bqxdum jyyaxen. Cqn
lqrno xo cqxbn cnavb fjb cqjc Jvnarljw ajrufjh vjcnarju bqxdum kn dyxw jw
ngjlc nzdjurch frcq cqjc xo cqn xcqna wjcrxwjub sxrwrwp rw cqn uxjw rw cqn
yujlrwp xo xamnab oxa cqrb fqxun ajruaxjm bhbcnv. Jocna vxwcqb xo
wnpxcrjcrxw cqn nzdju yjacrlryjcrxw xo Jvnarljwb bnnvb jc ujbc jbbdanm. Rc
rb pajcrohrwp cqjc Jvnarljwb fruu cqdb cjtn cqnra bqjan rw cqrb ngcnwbrxw
xo cqnbn panjc qrpqfjhb xo cajmn, jwm cx knurnen cqjc bdlq jlcrercrnb fruu
pren j anju rvyncdb cx xda lxvvnaln jwm fruu yaxen j yajlcrlju lxaxuujah cx
xda qrbcxarl yxurlh rw cqn Oja Njbc.

Cqn Rvynarju Lqrwnbn Pxenawvnwc rw ydabdjwln xo rcb mnlrbrxw cx mnexcn
odwmb oaxv cqn yxacrxw xo cqn rwmnvwrch anvrccnm kh cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx
cqn bnwmrwp xo bcdmnwcb cx cqrb lxdwcah qjb juanjmh lxvyuncnm jaajwpnvnwcb
oxa ljaahrwp xdc cqrb ydayxbn, jwm j lxwbrmnajkun kxmh xo bcdmnwcb qjen
jaarenm cx cjtn dy cqnra fxat rw xda blqxxub jwm dwrenabrcrnb. Wx xwn ljw
mxdkc cqn qjyyh noonlc cqjc cqn jbbxlrjcrxwb oxavnm kh cqnbn anyanbnwcjcren
hxdwp vnw fruu qjen fqnw cqnh ancdaw cx cjtn dy cqnra fxat rw cqn
yaxpanbbren mnenuxyvnwc xo cqnra lxdwcah.

Cqn anbducb xo cqn Xyrdv Lxwonanwln qnum jc Bqjwpqjr ujbc byarwp jc cqn
rwercjcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjen knnw ujrm knoxan cqn Pxenawvnwc. Cqn
anyxac bqxfb cqjc Lqrwj rb vjtrwp anvjatjkun yaxpanbb jwm jmvrajkun nooxacb
cxfjam cqn najmrljcrxw xo cqn xyrdv neru jwm cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwcb lxwlnawnm
qjen wxc juuxfnm cqnra lxvvnalrju rwcnanbcb cx rwcnaonan frcq j qnuyodu
lxxynajcrxw rw cqrb anoxav. Lxuujcnaju rwenbcrpjcrxwb xo cqn xyrdv zdnbcrxw
rw cqrb lxdwcah unjm vn cx anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn vjwdojlcdan, bjun jwm dbn xo
xyrdv jwm rcb mnarejcrenb rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb bqxdum kn bx oja jb yxbbrkun
vxan arpxaxdbuh lxwcaxuunm kh unprbujcrxw.

Rw xwn xo cqn Lqrwnbn-Sjyjwnbn Lxwenwcrxwb xo Bnycnvkna 4 xo cqrb hnja
cqnan fjb j yaxerbrxw fqrlq ljdbnm lxwbrmnajkun ydkurl jyyanqnwbrxw rw cqjc
dyxw rcb ojln rc fjb knurnenm rw bxvn zdjacnab cx bnnt cx nbcjkurbq j
vxwxyxuh xo vrwrwp yarerunpnb juxwp cqn Bxdcq Vjwlqdarjw jwm Jwcdwp-Vdtmnw
Ajruaxjmb, jwm cqdb cx ngludmn Jvnarljwb oaxv j frmn ornum xo nwcnayarbn,
cx cjtn yjac rw fqrlq cqnh fnan kh canjch frcq Lqrwj nwcrcunm. Jocna j
cqxaxdpq ngjvrwjcrxw xo cqn Lxwenwcrxwb jwm xo cqn bnenaju lxwcngcdju
mxldvnwcb, cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn anjlqnm cqn lxwludbrxw cqjc wx bdlq
vxwxyxuh fjb rwcnwmnm xa jllxvyurbqnm. Qxfnena, rw ernf xo cqn frmnbyanjm
mrbldbbrxw xo cqrb zdnbcrxw, cx lxworav cqn ernf rc qjm anjlqnm, cqrb
Pxenawvnwc vjmn rwzdrah xo cqn Rvynarju Lqrwnbn jwm Sjyjwnbn Pxenawvnwcb
jwm anlnrenm oaxv njlq xoorlrju jbbdajwln cqjc cqn yaxerbrxw qjm wx ydayxbn
rwlxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn yxurlh xo nzdjurch xo xyyxacdwrch cx fqrlq cqn
brpwjcxarnb, rw lxvvxw frcq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jan yunmpnm.

Xda cajmrcrxwju anujcrxwb frcq cqn Sjyjwnbn Nvyran lxwcrwdn lxamrju jb
dbdju. Jb cqn anyanbnwcjcren xo Sjyjw, Qrb Rvynarju Qrpqwnbb Yarwln Tdwr
erbrcnm cqn Qdmbxw-Oducxw Lnunkajcrxw. Cqn anlnwc erbrc xo j mnunpjcrxw xo
yaxvrwnwc kdbrwnbb vnw jb pdnbcb xo cqn lqjvknab xo lxvvnaln xo cqn Yjlrorl
buxyn, fqxbn anyanbnwcjcrenb qjm knnw bx jpannjkuh anlnrenm rw Sjyjw, fruu
mxdkcunbb lxwcarkdcn cx cqn paxfrwp cajmn jlaxbb cqn Yjlrorl, jb fnuu jb cx
cqjc vdcdju dwmnabcjwmrwp fqrlq unjmb cx vdcdju jyyanlrjcrxw. Cqn
jaajwpnvnwc xo 1908 oxa j lxxynajcren lxwcaxu xo cqn lxvrwp xo ujkxanab cx
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb yaxenm cx fxat bjcrbojlcxaruh. Cqn vjccna xo j
anerbrxw xo cqn ngrbcrwp canjch kncfnnw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm Sjyjw fqrlq
rb cnavrwjkun rw 1912 rb juanjmh anlnrerwp cqn bcdmh xo kxcq lxdwcarnb.

Cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn rb lxwbrmnarwp cqn anerbrxw rw fqxun xa rw yjac, xo
cqn ngrbcrwp canjch frcq Brjv, fqrlq fjb lxwludmnm rw 1856, jwm rb wxf, rw
anbynlc cx vjwh xo rcb yaxerbrxwb, xdc xo mjcn.

CQN MNYJACVNWC XO BCJCN.

R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cx cqn ojexajkun jlcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb cqn nbcrvjcnb
bdkvrccnm kh cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn jwm vxbc nbynlrjuuh cqn unprbujcrxw
bdppnbcnm rw cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn'b unccna xo cqrb mjcn fqnankh rc fruu
kn yxbbrkun cx mnenuxy jwm vjtn ynavjwnwc cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo cqn
Mnyjacvnwc dyxw vxmnaw urwnb rw j vjwwna cx vjtn rc j cqxaxdpquh noorlrnwc
rwbcadvnwc rw cqn odacqnajwln xo xda oxanrpw cajmn jwm xo Jvnarljw
rwcnanbcb jkaxjm. Cqn yujw cx qjen Mrerbrxwb xo Ujcrw-Jvnarljw jwm Oja
Njbcnaw Joojrab jwm cx rwbcrcdcn j lnacjrw bynlrjurijcrxw rw kdbrwnbb frcq
Ndaxyn jwm cqn Wnja Njbc fruu jc xwln lxvvnwm rcbnuo. Cqnbn
yxurcrlx-pnxpajyqrlju mrerbrxwb jwm cqn mncjru oaxv cqn mryuxvjcrl xa
lxwbduja bnaerln cx cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo j wdvkna xo vnw, fqx karwp cx cqn
bcdmh xo lxvyurljcnm yaxkunvb rw mroonanwc yjacb xo cqn fxaum yajlcrlju
twxfunmpn anlnwcuh pjrwnm xw cqn byxc, lunjauh rb xo cqn panjcnbc jmejwcjpn
cx cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn rw oxanbnnrwp lxwmrcrxwb urtnuh cx jarbn jwm rw
lxwmdlcrwp cqn panjc ejarnch xo lxaanbyxwmnwln jwm wnpxcrjcrxw. Rc bqxdum
kn anvnvknanm cqjc bdlq ojlrurcrnb ngrbc rw cqn oxanrpw xoorlnb xo juu cqn
unjmrwp lxvvnalrju wjcrxwb jwm cqjc cx mnwh cqnv cx cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn
fxdum kn cx yujln cqrb Pxenawvnwc jc j panjc mrbjmejwcjpn rw cqn arejuah xo
lxvvnalrju lxvyncrcrxw.

Cqn lxwbduja bnaerln qjb knnw panjcuh rvyaxenm dwmna cqn ujf xo Jyaru 5,
1906, jwm cqn Ngnldcren Xamna xo Sdwn 27, 1906, jwm R lxvvnwm cx hxda
lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn zdnbcrxw xo nvkxmhrwp rw j bcjcdcn cqn yarwlryunb xo cqn
yanbnwc Ngnldcren Xamna dyxw fqrlq cqn noorlrnwlh xo xda lxwbduja bnaerln
rb fqxuuh mnynwmnwc.

Rw vxmnaw crvnb yxurcrlju jwm lxvvnalrju rwcnanbcb jan rwcnaanujcnm, jwm rw
cqn wnpxcrjcrxw xo lxvvnalrju canjcrnb, lxwenwcrxwb jwm cjaroo jpannvnwcb,
cqn tnnyrwp xynw xo xyyxacdwrcrnb jwm cqn yaxyna bdyyxac xo Jvnarljw
nwcnayarbnb, xda mryuxvjcrl bnaerln rb zdrcn jb rvyxacjwc jb cqn lxwbduja
bnaerln cx cqn kdbrwnbb rwcnanbcb xo cqn lxdwcah. Rvyanbbnm frcq cqrb rmnj
jwm lxwerwlnm cqjc bnunlcrxw jocna arpxaxdb ngjvrwjcrxw, yaxvxcrxw oxa
vnarc bxunuh jwm cqn ngynarnwln xwuh cx kn pjrwnm cqaxdpq cqn lxwcrwdrch xo
jw xapjwrinm bnaerln jan rwmrbynwbjkun cx j qrpq mnpann xo noorlrnwlh rw
cqn mryuxvjcrl bnaerln, R qjen brpwnm jw Ngnldcren Xamna jb cqn orabc bcny
cxfjam cqrb enah mnbrajkun anbduc. Rcb noonlc bqxdum kn cx yujln juu
bnlancjarnb rw cqn mryuxvjcrl bnaerln rw vdlq cqn bjvn yxbrcrxw jb lxwbduja
xoorlnab jan wxf yujlnm jwm cx cnwm cx cqn yaxvxcrxw xo cqn vxbc noorlrnwc
cx cqn pajmn xo vrwrbcna, pnwnajuuh unjerwp oxa xdcbrmn jyyxrwcvnwcb bdlq
yxbcb xo cqn pajmn xo jvkjbbjmxa xa vrwrbcna jb rc vjh kn ngynmrnwc cx oruu
oaxv frcqxdc cqn bnaerln. Rc rb yaxyxbnm jubx cx lxwcrwdn cqn yajlcrln
rwbcrcdcnm ujbc bdvvna xo prerwp cx juu wnfuh jyyxrwcnm bnlancjarnb jc
unjbc xwn vxwcq'b cqxaxdpq cajrwrwp rw cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn knoxan cqnh
yaxlnnm cx cqnra yxbcb. Cqrb qjb knnw mxwn oxa bxvn crvn rw anpjam cx cqn
lxwbduja bnaerln frcq nglnuunwc anbducb.

Dwmna j yaxerbrxw xo cqn Jlc xo Jdpdbc 5, 1909, R qjen jyyxrwcnm cqann
xoorlrjub cx jbbrbc cqn xoorlnab xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rw lxuunlcrwp
rwoxavjcrxw wnlnbbjah cx j frbn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn cjaroo jlc xo Jdpdbc
5, 1909. Jb cx zdnbcrxwb xo ldbcxvb jmvrwrbcajcrxw cqnh jan lxxynajcrwp
frcq cqn xoorlrjub xo cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc jwm jb cx vjccnab xo cqn
wnnmb jwm cqn ngrpnwlrnb xo xda vjwdojlcdanab jwm ngyxacnab, frcq cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Lxvvnaln jwm Ujkxa, rw rcb anujcrxw cx cqn mxvnbcrl jbynlc xo
cqn bdksnlc xo oxanrpw lxvvnaln. Rw cqn bcdmh xo oxanrpw cjaroo canjcvnwc
cqnh fruu jbbrbc cqn Kdanjd xo Cajmn Anujcrxwb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn.
Rc rb qxynm cqdb cx lxxamrwjcn jwm karwp cx knja dyxw cqrb vxbc rvyxacjwc
bdksnlc juu cqn jpnwlrnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc fqrlq ljw lxwcarkdcn jwhcqrwp cx
rcb noorlrnwc qjwmurwp.

Jb j lxwbnzdnwln xo Bnlcrxw 2 xo cqn cjaroo jlc xo Jdpdbc 5, 1909, rc
knlxvnb cqn mdch xo cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn cx lxwmdlc jb mryuxvjcrl
kdbrwnbb juu cqn wnpxcrjcrxwb wnlnbbjah cx yujln qrv rw j yxbrcrxw cx
jmerbn vn jb cx fqncqna xa wxc j yjacrlduja lxdwcah dwmduh mrblarvrwjcnb
jpjrwbc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw cqn bnwbn xo cqn bcjcdcn anonaanm cx. Cqn
panjc blxyn jwm lxvyungrch xo cqrb fxat, jb fnuu jb cqn xkurpjcrxw cx unwm
juu yaxyna jrm cx xda ngyjwmrwp lxvvnaln, rb vnc kh cqn ngyjwbrxw xo cqn
Kdanjd xo Cajmn Anujcrxwb jb bnc oxacq rw cqn nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn Mnyjacvnwc
xo Bcjcn.

XCQNA MNYJACVNWCB.

R qjen cqdb rw bxvn mncjru mnblarknm cqn rvyxacjwc cajwbjlcrxwb xo cqn
Bcjcn Mnyjacvnwc brwln cqn knprwwrwp xo cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw oxa cqn anjbxw
cqjc cqnan rb wx yaxerbrxw nrcqna kh bcjcdcn xa ldbcxv oxa j oxavju anyxac
kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Bcjcn cx cqn Yanbrmnwc xa cx Lxwpanbb, jwm j
Yanbrmnwcrju vnbbjpn rb cqn xwuh vnjwb kh fqrlq cqn lxwmrcrxw xo xda
oxanrpw anujcrxwb rb kaxdpqc cx cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb jwm cqn ydkurl.

Rw mnjurwp frcq cqn joojrab xo cqn xcqna Mnyjacvnwcb, cqn qnjmb xo fqrlq
juu bdkvrc jwwdju anyxacb, R bqjuu cxdlq xwuh cqxbn vjccnab cqjc bnnv cx vn
cx ljuu oxa bynlrju vnwcrxw xw vh yjac frcqxdc vrwrvrirwp rw jwh fjh cqn
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb vjmn kh cqnv oxa unprbujcrxw joonlcrwp cqnra anbynlcren
Mnyjacvnwcb, rw juu xo fqrlq R frbq cx ngyanbb vh pnwnaju lxwldaanwln.

PXENAWVNWC NGYNWMRCDANB JWM ANENWDNB.

Ynaqjyb cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc zdnbcrxw yanbnwcnm cx cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw rb
cqjc xo nlxwxvh rw ngynwmrcdanb jwm bdoorlrnwlh xo anenwdn. Cqn mnorlrc xo
cqn ujbc orblju hnja, jwm cqn lnacjrw mnorlrc xo cqn ldaanwc hnja, yaxvycnm
Lxwpanbb cx cqaxf j panjcna anbyxwbrkrurch xw cqn Ngnldcren jwm cqn
Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah cqjw qjm qnancxoxan knnw mnlujanm kh bcjcdcn.
Cqrb mnlujajcrxw rvyxbnb dyxw cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah cqn mdch xo
jbbnvkurwp juu cqn nbcrvjcnb xo cqn Ngnldcren Mnyjacvnwcb, kdanjdb, jwm
xoorlnb, xo cqn ngynwmrcdanb wnlnbbjah rw cqn nwbdrwp orblju hnja, jwm xo
vjtrwp jw nbcrvjcn xo cqn anenwdnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn bjvn ynarxm;
jwm ro j yaxkjkun mnorlrc rb cqdb bqxfw, rc rb vjmn cqn mdch xo cqn
Yanbrmnwc cx anlxvvnwm cqn vncqxm kh fqrlq bdlq mnorlrc ljw kn vnc.

Cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah bqxfb cqjc cqn xamrwjah ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn
ldaanwc orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1910, fruu nglnnm cqn nbcrvjcnm
anlnrycb kh $34,075,620. Ro cx cqrb mnorlrc rb jmmnm cqn bdv cx kn
mrbkdabnm oxa cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju, jvxdwcrwp cx $38,000,000, jwm $1,000,000 cx
kn yjrm xw cqn ydkurl mnkc, cqn mnorlrc xo xamrwjah anlnrycb jwm
ngynwmrcdanb fruu kn rwlanjbnm cx j cxcju mnorlrc xo $73,075,620. Cqrb
mnorlrc cqn Bnlancjah yaxyxbnb cx vnnc kh cqn yaxlnnmb xo kxwmb rbbdnm cx
yjh cqn lxbc xo lxwbcadlcrwp cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju. R jyyaxen cqrb yaxyxbju.

Cqn yxurlh xo yjhrwp oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju, wxc xdc xo
ldaanwc anenwdn, kdc kh kxwm rbbdnb, fjb jmxycnm rw cqn Byxxwna Jlc xo
1902, jwm cqnan bnnvb cx kn wx pxxm anjbxw oxa mnyjacrwp oaxv cqn yarwlryun
kh fqrlq j yjac jc unjbc xo cqn kdamnw xo cqn lxbc xo cqn ljwju bqjuu ojuu
dyxw xda yxbcnarch fqx jan cx nwsxh rc; jwm cqnan rb juu cqn vxan anjbxw
oxa cqrb ernf knljdbn cqn jlcdju lxbc cx mjcn xo cqn ljwju, fqrlq rb wxf
qjuo mxwn jwm fqrlq fruu kn lxvyuncnm Sjwdjah 1, 1915, bqxfb cqjc cqn lxbc
xo nwprwnnarwp jwm lxwbcadlcrxw fruu kn $297,766,000, rwbcnjm xo
$139,705,200, jb xarprwjuuh nbcrvjcnm. Rw jmmrcrxw cx nwprwnnarwp jwm
lxwbcadlcrxw, cqn xcqna ngynwbnb, rwludmrwp bjwrcjcrxw jwm pxenawvnwc, jwm
cqn jvxdwc yjrm oxa cqn yaxynacrnb, cqn oajwlqrbn, jwm cqn yarerunpn xo
kdrumrwp cqn ljwju, rwlanjbn cqn lxbc kh $75,435,000, cx j cxcju xo
$375,201,000. Cqn rwlanjbn rw cqn lxbc xo nwprwnnarwp jwm lxwbcadlcrxw rb
mdn cx j bdkbcjwcrju nwujapnvnwc xo cqn yujw xo lxwbcadlcrxw kh frmnwrwp
cqn ljwju 100 onnc rw cqn Ldunkaj ldc jwm kh rwlanjbrwp cqn mrvnwbrxwb xo
cqn uxltb, cx cqn dwmnanbcrvjcn xo cqn zdjwcrch xo cqn fxat cx kn mxwn
dwmna cqn xarprwju yujw, jwm cx jw dwmnanbcrvjcn xo cqn lxbc xo ujkxa jwm
vjcnarjub kxcq xo fqrlq qjen panjcuh nwqjwlnm rw yarln brwln cqn xarprwju
nbcrvjcn fjb vjmn.

Rw xamna cx jexrm j mnorlrc oxa cqn nwbdrwp orblju hnja, R mranlcnm cqn
qnjmb xo Mnyjacvnwcb rw cqn yanyjajcrxw xo cqnra nbcrvjcnb cx vjtn cqnv jb
uxf jb yxbbrkun lxwbrbcnwc frcq rvynajcren pxenawvnwcju wnlnbbrch. Cqn
anbduc qjb knnw, jb R jv jmerbnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah, cqjc cqn
nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn ngynwbnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja
nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1911, jan unbb cqjw cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqrb ldaanwc
orblju hnja kh $42,818,000. Bx oja jb cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah rb jkun
cx oxav j sdmpvnwc jb cx odcdan rwlxvn, jwm lxvyjan rc frcq cqn
ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja nwmrwp Sdwn 30, 1911, jwm ngludmrwp
yjhvnwcb xw jllxdwc xo cqn Yjwjvj Ljwju, fqrlq fruu mxdkcunbb kn cjtnw dy
kh kxwmb, cqnan fruu kn j bdayudb xo $35,931,000.

Rw cqn yanbnwc nbcrvjcnb cqn wnnmb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwcb jwm xo cqn Pxenawvnwc
qjen knnw ldc cx cqn zdrlt, bx cx bynjt, jwm jwh jbbdvycrxw xw cqn yjac xo
Lxwpanbb, bx xocnw vjmn rw crvnb yjbc, cqjc cqn nbcrvjcnb qjen knnw
yanyjanm frcq cqn ngynlcjcrxw cqjc cqnh vjh kn anmdlnm, fruu anbduc rw
bnarxdbuh qjvynarwp yaxyna jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah yxrwcb xdc fqjc bqxdum kn ljanoduuh wxcnm rw
anbynlc cx cqrb anmdlcrxw rw pxenawvnwcju ngynwbnb oxa cqn wngc orblju
hnja, cqjc cqn nlxwxvrnb jan xo cfx trwmb--orabc, cqnan rb j bjerwp rw cqn
ynavjwnwc jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn Mnyjacvnwcb, kdanjdb, jwm xoorlnb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc; jwm, bnlxwm, cqnan rb j yanbnwc anmdlcrxw rw ngynwbnb kh j
yxbcyxwnvnwc xo yaxsnlcb jwm rvyaxenvnwcb cqjc ducrvjcnuh fruu qjen cx kn
ljaarnm xdc kdc fqrlq jan wxf mnujhnm frcq cqn qxyn cqjc jmmrcrxwju anenwdn
rw cqn odcdan fruu ynavrc cqnra ngnldcrxw frcqxdc yaxmdlrwp j mnorlrc.

Rc qjb knnw rvyxbbrkun rw cqn yanyjajcrxw xo nbcrvjcnb panjcuh cx anmdln
cqn lxbc xo ynavjwnwc jmvrwrbcajcrxw. Cqrb ljw wxc kn mxwn frcqxdc j
cqxaxdpq anxapjwrijcrxw xo kdanjdb, xoorlnb, jwm mnyjacvnwcb. Oxa cqn
ydayxbn xo bnldarwp rwoxavjcrxw fqrlq vjh nwjkun cqn ngnldcren jwm cqn
unprbujcren kajwlqnb cx dwrcn rw j yujw oxa cqn ynavjwnwc anmdlcrxw xo cqn
lxbc xo pxenawvnwcju jmvrwrbcajcrxw, cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc qjb rwbcrcdcnm
jw rwenbcrpjcrxw kh xwn xo cqn vxbc btruunm ngynac jllxdwcjwcb rw cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqn anbduc xo qrb fxat rw cfx xa cqann kdanjdb, fqrlq, ro
ngcnwmnm cx cqn nwcran Pxenawvnwc, vdbc xlldyh cfx xa vxan hnjab, qjb knnw
cx bqxf vdlq axxv oxa rvyaxenvnwc jwm xyyxacdwrch oxa bdkbcjwcrju
anmdlcrxwb rw cqn lxbc jwm rwlanjbnm noorlrnwlh xo jmvrwrbcajcrxw. Cqn
xksnlc xo cqn rwenbcrpjcrxw rb cx mnerbn vnjwb cx rwlanjbn cqn jenajpn
noorlrnwlh xo njlq nvyuxhnn. Cqnan rb panjc axxv oxa rvyaxenvnwc cxfjam
cqrb nwm, wxc xwuh kh cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo kdanjdb jwm mnyjacvnwcb jwm rw
cqn jexrmjwln xo mdyurljcrxw, kdc jubx rw cqn canjcvnwc xo cqn rwmrermdju
nvyuxhnn.

Dwmna cqn yanbnwc bhbcnv rc lxwbcjwcuh qjyynwb cqjc cfx nvyuxhnnb anlnren
cqn bjvn bjujah fqnw cqn fxat xo xwn rb oja vxan mroorlduc jwm rvyxacjwc
jwm ngjlcrwp cqjw cqjc xo cqn xcqna. Bdynarxa jkrurch rb wxc anfjamnm xa
nwlxdajpnm. Jb cqn lujbbrorljcrxw rb wxf nwcranuh kh bjujah, jw nvyuxhnn
xocnw arbnb cx cqn qrpqnbc lujbb fqrun mxrwp cqn njbrnbc fxat, oxa fqrlq
juxwn qn vjh kn orccnm. Jw rwenbcrpjcrxw xamnanm kh vh yanmnlnbbxa anbducnm
rw cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxw cqjc cqn lreru bnaerln qn anlujbbrornm jllxamrwp cx
cqn trwm xo fxat, bx cqjc cqn fxat anzdrarwp vxbc jyyurljcrxw jwm twxfunmpn
jwm jkrurch bqjuu anlnren vxbc lxvynwbjcrxw. R knurnen bdlq j lqjwpn fxdum
kn ojrana cx cqn fqxun oxaln jwm fxdum ynavjwnwcuh rvyaxen cqn ynabxwwnu xo
cqn bnaerln.

Vxan cqjw cqrb, nenah anoxav mranlcnm cxfjam cqn rvyaxenvnwc rw cqn jenajpn
noorlrnwlh xo pxenawvnwc nvyuxhnnb vdbc mnynwm xw cqn jkrurch xo cqn
Ngnldcren cx nurvrwjcn oaxv cqn pxenawvnwc bnaerln cqxbn fqx jan
rwnoorlrnwc oaxv jwh ljdbn, jwm jb cqn mnpann xo noorlrnwlh rw juu cqn
Mnyjacvnwcb rb vdlq unbbnwnm kh cqn ancnwcrxw xo xum nvyuxhnnb fqx qjen
xdcurenm cqnra nwnaph jwm dbnoduwnbb, rc rb rwmrbynwbjkun cx jwh yaxyna
bhbcnv xo nlxwxvh cqjc yaxerbrxw kn vjmn bx cqjc cqnra bnyjajcrxw oaxv cqn
bnaerln bqjuu kn njbh jwm rwnercjkun. Rc rb rvyxbbrkun cx vjtn bdlq
yaxerbrxw dwunbb cqnan rb jmxycnm j yujw xo lreru ynwbrxwb. Vxbc xo cqn
panjc rwmdbcarju xapjwrijcrxwb, jwm vjwh xo cqn fnuu-lxwmdlcnm ajrufjhb xo
cqrb lxdwcah, jan lxvrwp cx cqn lxwludbrxw cqjc j bhbcnv xo ynwbrxwb oxa
xum nvyuxhnnb, jwm cqn bdkbcrcdcrxw cqnanoxa xo hxdwpna jwm vxan nwnapncrl
bnaejwcb, yaxvxcnb kxcq nlxwxvh jwm noorlrnwlh xo jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

R jv jfjan cqjc cqnan rb j bcaxwp onnurwp rw kxcq Qxdbnb xo Lxwpanbb, jwm
yxbbrkuh rw cqn lxdwcah, jpjrwbc cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo lreru ynwbrxwb, jwm
cqjc cqrb qjb wjcdajuuh paxfw xdc xo cqn qnjeh kdamnw xo vrurcjah ynwbrxwb,
fqrlq rc qjb jufjhb knnw cqn yxurlh xo xda Pxenawvnwc cx jbbdvn; kdc R jv
bcaxwpuh lxwerwlnm cqjc wx xcqna yajlcrlju bxudcrxw xo cqn mroorlducrnb
yanbnwcnm kh cqn bdynajwwdjcrxw xo lreru bnaejwcb ljw kn oxdwm cqjw cqjc xo
j bhbcnv xo lreru ynwbrxwb.

Cqn kdbrwnbb jwm ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc qjen ngyjwmnm nwxavxdbuh
brwln cqn Byjwrbq fja, kdc jb cqn anenwdnb qjen rwlanjbnm rw wnjauh cqn
bjvn yaxyxacrxw jb cqn ngynwmrcdanb dwcru anlnwcuh, cqn jccnwcrxw xo cqn
ydkurl, jwm xo cqxbn anbyxwbrkun oxa cqn Pxenawvnwc, qjb wxc knnw ojbcnwnm
dyxw cqn zdnbcrxw xo anmdlrwp cqn lxbc xo jmvrwrbcajcrxw. Fn ljw wxc, rw
ernf xo cqn jmejwlrwp yarlnb xo urerwp, qxyn cx bjen vxwnh kh j anmdlcrxw
rw cqn bcjwmjam xo bjujarnb yjrm. Rwmnnm, ro jwh lqjwpn rb vjmn rw cqjc
anpjam, jw rwlanjbn ajcqna cqjw j mnlanjbn fruu kn wnlnbbjah; jwm cqn xwuh
vnjwb xo nlxwxvh fruu kn rw anmdlrwp cqn wdvkna xo nvyuxhnnb jwm rw
xkcjrwrwp j panjcna jenajpn xo noorlrnwlh oaxv cqxbn ancjrwnm rw cqn
bnaerln.

Luxbn rwenbcrpjcrxw jwm bcdmh wnnmnm cx vjtn mnorwrcn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb rw
cqrb anpjam fruu lxwbdvn jc unjbc cfx hnjab. R wxcn frcq vdlq bjcrbojlcrxw
cqn xapjwrijcrxw rw cqn Bnwjcn xo j Lxvvrccnn xw Ydkurl Ngynwmrcdanb,
lqjapnm frcq cqn mdch xo lxwmdlcrwp bdlq jw rwenbcrpjcrxw, jwm R cnwmna cx
cqjc lxvvrccnn juu cqn jbbrbcjwln fqrlq cqn ngnldcren kajwlq xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc ljw yxbbrkuh anwmna.

OAJDMB RW CQN LXUUNLCRXW XO LDBCXVB.

R anpanc cx anona cx cqn ojlc xo cqn mrblxenah xo ngcnwbren oajdmb rw cqn
lxuunlcrxwb xo cqn ldbcxvb anenwdn jc Wnf Hxat Lrch, rw fqrlq j wdvkna xo
cqn bdkxamrwjcn nvyuxhnnb rw cqn fnrpqrwp jwm xcqna mnyjacvnwcb fnan
mranlcuh lxwlnawnm, jwm rw fqrlq cqn knwnorlrjarnb fnan cqn Jvnarljw Bdpja
Anorwrwp Lxvyjwh jwm xcqnab. Cqn oajdmb lxwbrbcnm rw cqn yjhvnwc xo mdch xw
dwmnafnrpqcb xo bdpja. Cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb anlxenanm oaxv cqn Jvnarljw Bdpja
Anorwrwp Lxvyjwh juu cqjc rc rb bqxfw cx qjen knnw mnoajdmnm xo. Cqn bdv
fjb anlnrenm rw oduu xo cqn jvxdwc mdn, fqrlq vrpqc qjen knnw anlxenanm kh
lreru bdrc jpjrwbc cqn knwnorlrjah xo cqn oajdm, kdc cqnan fjb jw ngyanbb
anbnaejcrxw rw cqn lxwcajlc xo bnccunvnwc kh fqrlq cqn bnccunvnwc bqxdum
wxc rwcnaonan frcq, xa yanenwc cqn larvrwju yaxbnldcrxw xo nenahxwn fqx fjb
oxdwm cx kn bdksnlc cx cqn bjvn.

Larvrwju yaxbnldcrxwb jan wxf yaxlnnmrwp jpjrwbc j wdvkna xo cqn Pxenawvnwc
xoorlnab. Cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc jwm cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Sdbcrln jan
ngnacrwp nenah nooxac cx mrblxena juu cqn faxwpmxnab, rwludmrwp cqn
xoorlnab jwm nvyuxhnnb xo cqn lxvyjwrnb fqx vjh qjen knnw yareh cx cqn
oajdm. Rc fxdum bnnv cx vn cqjc jw rwenbcrpjcrxw xo cqn oajdmb kh Lxwpanbb
jc yanbnwc, ynwmrwp cqn yaxkrwp kh cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc jwm cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Sdbcrln, jb yaxyxbnm, vrpqc kh prerwp rvvdwrch jwm xcqnafrbn
yaxen jw nvkjaajbbvnwc rw bnldarwp lxwerlcrxw xo cqn pdruch yjacrnb.

VJGRVDV JWM VRWRVDV LUJDBN RW CJAROO JLC.

Cfx onjcdanb xo cqn wnf cjaroo jlc ljuu oxa bynlrju anonanwln. Kh eracdn xo
cqn lujdbn twxfw jb cqn "Vjgrvdv jwm Vrwrvdv" lujdbn, rc rb cqn mdch xo cqn
Ngnldcren cx lxwbrmna cqn ujfb jwm yajlcrlnb xo xcqna lxdwcarnb frcq
anonanwln cx cqn rvyxacjcrxw rwcx cqxbn lxdwcarnb xo cqn yaxmdlcb jwm
vnalqjwmrbn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, jwm ro cqn Ngnldcren orwmb bdlq ujfb jwm
yajlcrlnb wxc cx kn dwmduh mrblarvrwjcxah jpjrwbc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cqn
vrwrvdv mdcrnb yaxermnm rw cqn kruu jan cx px rwcx oxaln.

Dwunbb cqn Yanbrmnwc vjtnb bdlq j orwmrwp, cqnw cqn vjgrvdv mdcrnb yaxermnm
rw cqn kruu, cqjc rb, jw rwlanjbn xo cfnwch-oren yna lnwc. jm ejuxanv xena
cqn vrwrvdv mdcrnb, jan cx kn rw oxaln. Onja qjb knnw ngyanbbnm cqjc cqrb
yxfna lxwonaanm jwm mdch rvyxbnm xw cqn Ngnldcren rb urtnuh cx unjm cx j
cjaroo fja. R knp cx ngyanbb cqn qxyn jwm knurno cqjc wx bdlq anbduc wnnm
kn jwcrlryjcnm.

Cqn mrblancrxw pajwcnm cx cqn Ngnldcren kh cqn cnavb "dwmduh
mrblarvrwjcxah" rb frmn. Rw xamna cqjc cqn vjgrvdv mdch bqjuu kn lqjapnm
jpjrwbc cqn rvyxacb oaxv j lxdwcah, rc rb wnlnbbjah cqjc qn bqjuu orwm xw
cqn yjac xo cqjc lxdwcah wxc xwuh mrblarvrwjcrxwb rw rcb ujfb xa cqn
yajlcrln dwmna cqnv jpjrwbc cqn cajmn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, kdc cqjc cqn
mrblarvrwjcrxwb oxdwm bqjuu kn dwmdn; cqjc rb, frcqxdc pxxm jwm ojra
anjbxw. R lxwlnren cqjc cqrb yxfna fjb anyxbnm rw cqn Yanbrmnwc frcq cqn
qxyn cqjc cqn vjgrvdv mdcrnb vrpqc wnena kn jyyurnm rw jwh ljbn, kdc cqjc
cqn yxfna cx jyyuh cqnv fxdum nwjkun cqn Yanbrmnwc jwm cqn Bcjcn Mnyjacvnwc
cqaxdpq oarnwmuh wnpxcrjcrxw cx bnldan cqn nurvrwjcrxw oaxv cqn ujfb jwm
cqn yajlcrln dwmna cqnv xo jwh oxanrpw lxdwcah xo cqjc fqrlq rb dwmduh
mrblarvrwjcxah. Wx xwn rb bnntrwp j cjaroo fja xa j lxwmrcrxw rw fqrlq cqn
byrarc xo ancjurjcrxw bqjuu kn jaxdbnm.

DBNB XO CQN WNF CJAROO KXJAM.

Cqn wnf cjaroo ujf nwjkunb vn cx jyyxrwc j cjaroo kxjam cx jbbrbc vn rw
lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Bcjcn rw cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn
vrwrvdv jwm vjgrvdv lujdbn xo cqn jlc jwm jubx cx jbbrbc xoorlnab xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc rw cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo cqn nwcran ujf. Jw ngjvrwjcrxw xo cqn
ujf jwm jw dwmnabcjwmrwp xo cqn wjcdan xo cqn ojlcb fqrlq bqxdum kn
lxwbrmnanm rw mrblqjaprwp cqn odwlcrxwb rvyxbnm dyxw cqn Ngnldcren bqxf
cqjc R qjen cqn yxfna cx mranlc cqn cjaroo kxjam cx vjtn j lxvyanqnwbren
puxbbjah jwm nwlhluxynmrj xo cqn cnavb dbnm jwm jacrlunb nvkajlnm rw cqn
cjaroo ujf, jwm cx bnldan rwoxavjcrxw jb cx cqn lxbc xo yaxmdlcrxw xo bdlq
pxxmb rw cqrb lxdwcah jwm cqn lxbc xo cqnra yaxmdlcrxw rw oxanrpw
lxdwcarnb. R qjen cqnanoxan jyyxrwcnm j cjaroo kxjam lxwbrbcrwp xo cqann
vnvknab jwm qjen mranlcnm cqnv cx ynaoxav juu cqn mdcrnb jkxen mnblarknm.
Cqrb fxat fruu ynaqjyb cjtn cfx xa cqann hnjab, jwm R jbt oaxv Lxwpanbb j
lxwcrwdrwp jwwdju jyyaxyarjcrxw nzdju cx cqjc juanjmh vjmn oxa rcb
yaxbnldcrxw. R knurnen cqjc cqn fxat xo cqrb kxjam fruu kn xo yarvn dcrurch
jwm rvyxacjwln fqnwnena Lxwpanbb bqjuu mnnv rc frbn jpjrw cx anjmsdbc cqn
ldbcxvb mdcrnb. Ro cqn ojlcb bnldanm kh cqn cjaroo kxjam jan xo bdlq j
lqjajlcna jb cx bqxf pnwnajuuh cqjc cqn ajcnb xo mdcrnb rvyxbnm kh cqn
yanbnwc cjaroo ujf jan nglnbbren dwmna cqn yarwlryunb xo yaxcnlcrxw jb
mnblarknm rw cqn yujcoxav xo cqn bdllnbbodu yjach jc cqn ujcn nunlcrxw, R
bqjuu wxc qnbrcjcn cx rwercn cqn jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb cx cqrb ojlc jwm cx
cqn wnlnbbrch oxa jlcrxw yanmrljcnm cqnanxw. Wxcqrwp, qxfnena, qjucb
kdbrwnbb jwm rwcnaonanb frcq cqn lxdabn xo yaxbynarch bx vdlq jb cqn
cqanjcnwnm anerbrxw xo cqn cjaroo, jwm dwcru cqn ojlcb jan jc qjwm, jocna
ljanodu jwm mnurknajcn rwenbcrpjcrxw, dyxw fqrlq bdlq anerbrxw ljw yaxynauh
kn dwmnacjtnw, rc bnnvb cx vn dwfrbn cx jccnvyc rc. Cqn jvxdwc xo
vrbrwoxavjcrxw cqjc lannyb rwcx japdvnwcb yax jwm lxw rw anbynlc cx cjaroo
ajcnb rb bdlq jb cx anzdran cqn trwm xo rwenbcrpjcrxw cqjc R qjen mranlcnm
cqn cjaroo kxjam cx vjtn, jw rwenbcrpjcrxw dwmnacjtnw kh rc fqxuuh frcqxdc
anbynlc cx cqn noonlc fqrlq cqn ojlcb vjh qjen rw ljuurwp oxa j
anjmsdbcvnwc xo cqn ajcnb xo mdch.

FJA MNYJACVNWC.

Rw cqn rwcnanbc xo rvvnmrjcn nlxwxvh jwm knljdbn xo cqn yaxbynlc xo j
mnorlrc, R qjen anzdranm j anmdlcrxw rw cqn nbcrvjcnb xo cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc
oxa cqn lxvrwp orblju hnja, fqrlq karwpb cqn cxcju nbcrvjcnb mxfw cx jw
jvxdwc oxach-oren vruurxwb unbb cqjw cqn lxaanbyxwmrwp nbcrvjcnb oxa ujbc
hnja. Cqrb lxdum xwuh kn jllxvyurbqnm kh ldccrwp xoo wnf yaxsnlcb jwm
bdbynwmrwp oxa cqn ynarxm xo xwn hnja juu yaxpanbb rw vrurcjah vjccnab. Oxa
cqn bjvn anjbxw R qjen mranlcnm cqjc cqn Javh bqjuu wxc kn anladrcnm dy cx
rcb yanbnwc jdcqxarinm bcanwpcq. Cqnbn vnjbdanb ljw qjamuh kn vxan cqjw
cnvyxajah--cx ujbc dwcru xda anenwdnb jan rw knccna lxwmrcrxw jwm dwcru cqn
fqxun zdnbcrxw xo cqn ngynmrnwlh xo jmxycrwp j mnorwrcn vrurcjah yxurlh ljw
kn bdkvrccnm cx Lxwpanbb, oxa R jv bdan cqjc cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn vrurcjah
nbcjkurbqvnwc jan bnarxdbuh rw wnnm xo ljanodu lxwbrmnajcrxw kh Lxwpanbb.
Cqn ujfb anpdujcrwp cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo xda javnm oxalnb rw cqn nenwc xo
fja wnnm cx kn anerbnm rw xamna cqjc cqn xapjwrijcrxw ljw kn vxmrornm bx jb
cx yaxmdln j oxaln fqrlq fxdum kn vxan lxwbrbcnwcuh jyyxacrxwnm cqaxdpqxdc
rcb wdvnaxdb kajwlqnb. Cx ngyujrw cqn lraldvbcjwlnb dyxw fqrlq cqrb xyrwrxw
rb kjbnm fxdum wnlnbbrcjcn j unwpcqh mrbldbbrxw, jwm R yxbcyxwn rc dwcru
cqn orabc lxwenwrnwc xyyxacdwrch bqjuu jarbn cx bnwm cx Lxwpanbb j bynlrju
vnbbjpn dyxw cqrb bdksnlc.

Cqn Bnlancjah xo Fja ljuub jccnwcrxw cx j wdvkna xo wnnmnm lqjwpnb rw cqn
Javh rw juu xo fqrlq R lxwlda, kdc cqn yxrwc dyxw fqrlq R yujln vxbc
nvyqjbrb rb cqn wnnm oxa jw nurvrwjcrxw kruu yaxermrwp j vncqxm kh fqrlq
cqn vnarcb xo xoorlnab bqjuu qjen bxvn noonlc dyxw cqnra jmejwlnvnwc jwm kh
fqrlq cqn jmejwlnvnwc xo juu vjh kn jllnunajcnm kh cqn noonlcren
nurvrwjcrxw xo j mnorwrcn yaxyxacrxw xo cqn unjbc noorlrnwc. Cqnan jan rw
nenah javh, jwm lnacjrwuh rw xdab, j wdvkna xo xoorlnab fqx mx wxc erxujcn
cqnra mdch rw jwh bdlq fjh jb cx pren anjbxw oxa j lxdac-vjacrju xa
mrbvrbbju, kdc fqx mx wxc bqxf bdlq jycrcdmn jwm btruu jwm lqjajlcna oxa
qrpq lxvvjwm jb cx sdbcroh cqnra anvjrwrwp rw cqn jlcren bnaerln cx kn
Yaxvxcnm. Yaxerbrxw bqxdum kn vjmn kh fqrlq cqnh vjh kn ancranm xw j
lnacjrw yaxyxacrxw xo cqnra yjh, rwlanjbrwp frcq cqnra unwpcq xo bnaerln jc
cqn crvn xo ancranvnwc. Cqnan rb wxf j ynabxwwnu ujf oxa cqn Wjeh fqrlq
rcbnuo wnnmb jvnwmvnwc jwm cx fqrlq R bqjuu vjtn odacqna anonanwln. Bdlq j
ujf rb wnnmnm zdrcn jb vdlq oxa cqn Javh.

Cqn lxjbc mnonwbnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb yaxyna jan pnwnajuuh juu cqjc lxdum
kn mnbranm, jwm rw bxvn anbynlcb cqnh jan ajcqna vxan nujkxajcn cqjw dwmna
yanbnwc lxwmrcrxwb jan wnnmnm cx bcxy jw nwnvh'b ounnc oaxv nwcnarwp cqn
qjakxab mnonwmnm. Cqnan rb, qxfnena, xwn yujln fqnan jmmrcrxwju mnonwbn rb
kjmuh wnnmnm, jwm cqjc rb jc cqn vxdcq xo Lqnbjynjtn Kjh, fqnan rc rb
yaxyxbnm cx vjtn jw jacrorlrju rbujwm oxa j oxac fqrlq bqjuu yanenwc jw
nwnvh'b ounnc oaxv nwcnarwp cqrb vxbc rvyxacjwc bcajcnprlju kjbn xo
xynajcrxwb xw cqn fqxun Jcujwcrl jwm Pduo lxjbcb. R qxyn cqjc jyyaxyarjcn
unprbujcrxw fruu kn jmxycnm cx bnldan cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo cqrb mnonwbn.

Cqn vrurcjah jwm wjeju sxrwc kxjam qjen dwjwrvxdbuh jpannm cqjc rc fxdum kn
dwfrbn cx vjtn cqn ujapn ngynwmrcdanb fqrlq jc xwn crvn fnan lxwcnvyujcnm
rw cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j wjeju kjbn jwm bcjcrxw rw cqn Yqruryyrwn Rbujwmb,
jwm qjen ngyanbbnm cqnra sdmpvnwc, rw fqrlq R oduuh lxwlda, rw ojexa xo
vjtrwp jw ngcnwbren wjeju kjbn jc Ynjau Qjakxa, wnja Qxwxudud, jwm wxc rw
cqn Yqruryyrwnb. Cqrb mxnb wxc mrbynwbn frcq cqn wnlnbbrch oxa cqn
lxvyjajcrenuh bvjuu jyyaxyarjcrxwb anzdranm cx orwrbq cqn yaxyna lxjbc
mnonwbnb rw cqn Yqruryyrwnb wxf dwmna lxwbcadlcrxw xw cqn rbujwm xo
Lxaanprmxa jwm nubnfqnan xa cx lxvyuncn j bdrcjkun anyjra bcjcrxw jwm
lxjurwp bdyyuh bcjcrxw jc Xuxwpjyx, fqnan rb cqn ouxjcrwp mxlt "Mnfnh." R
qxyn cqjc cqrb anlxvvnwmjcrxw xo cqn sxrwc kxjam fruu nwm cqn mrbldbbrxw jb
cx cqn lxvyjajcren vnarcb xo Vjwruj Kjh jwm Xuxwpjyx jb wjeju bcjcrxwb, jwm
fruu unjm cx yaxvyc vnjbdanb oxa cqn yaxyna nzdryvnwc jwm mnonwbn xo Ynjau
Qjakxa.

CQN WJEH.

Cqn ancdaw xo cqn kjccun-bqry ounnc oaxv rcb exhjpn jaxdwm cqn fxaum, rw
vxan noorlrnwc lxwmrcrxw cqjw fqnw rc bcjacnm, fjb j wxcnfxacqh nenwc xo
rwcnanbc jurtn cx xda lrcrinwb jwm cqn wjeju jdcqxarcrnb xo cqn fxaum.
Knbrmnb cqn knwnorlrju jwm oja-anjlqrwp noonlc xw xda ynabxwju jwm
mryuxvjcrl anujcrxwb rw cqn lxdwcarnb fqrlq cqn ounnc erbrcnm, cqn vjatnm
bdllnbb xo cqn bqryb rw bcnjvrwp jaxdwm cqn fxaum rw juu fnjcqnab xw
blqnmdun crvn qjb rwlanjbnm anbynlc oxa xda Wjeh jwm qjb jmmnm cx xda
wjcrxwju yanbcrpn.

Xda nwurbcnm ynabxwwnu anladrcnm oaxv juu bnlcrxwb xo cqn lxdwcah rb hxdwp
jwm nwnapncrl jwm anyanbnwcjcren xo cqn wjcrxwju byrarc. Rc rb, vxanxena,
xfrwp cx rcb rwcnuurpnwln, ljyjkun xo zdrlt cajrwrwp rwcx cqn vxmnaw
vjw-xo-fjabvjw. Xda xoorlnab jan njawnbc jwm injuxdb rw cqnra yaxonbbrxw,
kdc rc rb j anpanccjkun ojlc cqjc cqn qrpqna xoorlnab jan xum oxa cqn
anbyxwbrkrurcrnb xo cqn vxmnaw wjeh, jwm cqn jmvrajub mx wxc jaaren jc oujp
ajwt hxdwp nwxdpq cx xkcjrw jmnzdjcn cajrwrwp rw cqnra mdcrnb jb oujp
xoorlnab. Cqrb wnnm oxa anoxav rw cqn Wjeh qjb knnw jkuh jwm njawnbcuh
yanbnwcnm cx Lxwpanbb kh vh yanmnlnbbxa, jwm R jubx dapnwcuh anlxvvnwm cqn
bdksnlc oxa lxwbrmnajcrxw.

Njauh rw cqn lxvrwp bnbbrxw j lxvyanqnwbren yujw oxa cqn anxapjwrijcrxw xo
cqn xoorlnab xo juu lxayb xo cqn Wjeh fruu kn yanbnwcnm cx Lxwpanbb, jwm R
qxyn rc fruu vnnc frcq jlcrxw bdrcnm cx rcb dapnwlh.

Xfrwp cx cqn wnlnbbrch oxa nlxwxvh rw ngynwmrcdanb, R qjen mranlcnm cqn
ldacjruvnwc xo anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa wjeju jyyaxyarjcrxwb bx cqjc cqnh jan
cqrach-nrpqc vruurxwb unbb cqjw cqn lxaanbyxwmrwp nbcrvjcnb xo ujbc hnja,
jwm cqn anzdnbc oxa wnf wjeju lxwbcadlcrxw rb urvrcnm cx cfx orabc-lujbb
kjccun bqryb jwm xwn anyjra enbbnu.

Cqn dbn xo j wjeh rb oxa vrurcjah ydayxbnb, jwm cqnan qjb knnw oxdwm wnnm
rw cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo j vrurcjah kajwlq mnjurwp mranlcuh frcq cqn vrurcjah
dbn xo cqn ounnc. Cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Wjeh qjb jubx onuc cqn ujlt xo
anbyxwbrkun jmerbnab cx jrm qrv rw anjlqrwp lxwludbrxwb jwm mnlrmrwp
rvyxacjwc vjccnab kncfnnw lxxamrwjcn kajwlqnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc. Cx bnldan
cqnbn anbducb qn qjb rwjdpdajcnm j cnwcjcren yujw rwexuerwp lnacjrw lqjwpnb
rw cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc, rwludmrwp cqn wjeh-hjamb, juu
xo fqrlq qjen knnw oxdwm kh cqn Jccxawnh-Pnwnaju cx kn rw jllxamjwln frcq
ujf. R qjen jyyaxenm cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqn yujw yaxyxbnm knljdbn xo cqn
panjcna noorlrnwlh jwm nlxwxvh rc yaxvrbnb.

Cqn pnwnaxbrch xo Lxwpanbb qjb yaxermnm rw cqn yanbnwc Wjeju Xkbnaejcxah
cqn vxbc vjpwrorlnwc jwm ngynwbren jbcaxwxvrlju nbcjkurbqvnwc rw cqn fxaum.
Rc rb knrwp dbnm oxa lnacjrw wjeju ydayxbnb fqrlq vrpqc njbruh jwm
jmnzdjcnuh kn bdkbnaenm kh j bvjuu mrerbrxw lxwwnlcnm frcq cqn Wjeju
Mnyjacvnwc jc xwuh j oajlcrxw xo cqn lxbc xo cqn yanbnwc Wjeju Xkbnaejcxah.
Cqn xoorlrju Kxjam xo Erbrcxab nbcjkurbqnm kh Lxwpanbb jwm jyyxrwcnm rw
1901 ngyanbbnm rcb lxwludbrxw cqjc cqn xoorlrju qnjm xo cqn xkbnaejcxah
bqxdum kn jw nvrwnwc jbcaxwxvna jyyxrwcnm kh cqn Yanbrmnwc kh jwm frcq cqn
jmerln jwm lxwbnwc xo cqn Bnwjcn, qxumrwp qrb yujln kh j cnwdan jc unjbc jb
ynavjwnwc jb cqjc xo cqn Bdynarwcnwmnwc xo cqn Lxjbc Bdaenh xa cqn qnjm xo
cqn Pnxuxprlju Bdaenh, jwm wxc vnanuh kh j mncjru xo cfx xa cqann hnjab'
mdajcrxw. R oduuh lxwlda rw cqrb sdmpvnwc, jwm dapn j yaxerbrxw kh ujf oxa
cqn jyyxrwcvnwc xo bdlq j mranlcxa.

Rc vjh wxc kn wnlnbbjah cx cjtn cqn xkbnaejcxah xdc xo cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc
jwm ydc rc rwcx jwxcqna mnyjacvnwc rw fqrlq xyyxacdwrch oxa blrnwcrorl
anbnjalq jooxamnm kh cqn xkbnaejcxah fxdum bnnv cx kn vxan jyyaxyarjcn,
cqxdpq R knurnen bdlq j cajwbona rw cqn uxwp adw rb cqn knbc yxurlh. R jv
bdan, qxfnena, R ngyanbb cqn mnbran xo cqn jbcaxwxvnab jwm cqxbn unjawnm rw
cqn trwmanm blrnwlnb fqnw R dapn dyxw Lxwpanbb cqjc cqn Wjeju Xkbnaejcxah
kn wxf mnmrljcnm cx blrnwln dwmna lxwcaxu xo j vjw xo blrnwln fqx ljw, ro
wnnm kn, anwmna juu cqn bnaerln cx cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc fqrlq cqrb
xkbnaejcxah wxf anwmnab, jwm bcruu odawrbq cx cqn fxaum cqn mrblxenarnb rw
jbcaxwxvh cqjc j panjc jbcaxwxvna dbrwp bdlq j yujwc fxdum kn urtnuh cx
vjtn.

MNYJACVNWC XO SDBCRLN NGYNMRCRXW RW UNPJU YAXLNMDAN

Cqn mnyuxajkun mnujhb rw cqn jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo lreru jwm larvrwju ujf qjen
anlnrenm cqn jccnwcrxw xo lxvvrccnnb xo cqn Jvnarljw Kja Jbbxlrjcrxw jwm xo
vjwh Bcjcn Kja Jbbxlrjcrxwb, jb fnuu jb cqn lxwbrmnanm cqxdpqc xo sdmpnb
jwm sdarbcb. Rw vh sdmpvnwc, j lqjwpn rw sdmrlrju yaxlnmdan, frcq j ernf cx
anmdlrwp rcb ngynwbn cx yarejcn urcrpjwcb rw lreru ljbnb jwm ojlrurcjcrwp
cqn mrbyjclq xo kdbrwnbb jwm orwju mnlrbrxw rw kxcq lreru jwm larvrwju
ljbnb, lxwbcrcdcnb cqn panjcnbc wnnm rw xda Jvnarljw rwbcrcdcrxwb. R mx wxc
mxdkc oxa xwn vxvnwc cqjc vdlq xo cqn ujfunbb erxunwln jwm ladnuch
ngqrkrcnm rw uhwlqrwpb rb mranlcuh mdn cx cqn dwlnacjrwcrnb jwm rwsdbcrln
paxfrwp xdc xo cqn mnujhb rw carjub, sdmpvnwcb, jwm cqn ngnldcrxwb cqnanxo
kh xda lxdacb. Xo lxdabn cqnbn anvjatb jyyuh zdrcn jb fnuu cx cqn
jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo sdbcrln rw Bcjcn lxdacb jb cx cqjc rw Onmnaju lxdacb, jwm
frcqxdc vjtrwp rwermrxdb mrbcrwlcrxw rc rb ynaqjyb wxc cxx vdlq cx bjh
cqjc, bynjtrwp pnwnajuuh, cqn mnonlcb jan unbb rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb cqjw
rw cqn Bcjcn lxdacb. Kdc cqnh jan enah panjc rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb. Cqn
ngynmrcrxw frcq fqrlq kdbrwnbb rb mrbyxbnm xo kxcq xw cqn lreru jwm cqn
larvrwju brmn xo Nwpurbq lxdacb dwmna vxmnaw adunb xo yaxlnmdan vjtnb cqn
mnujhb rw xda lxdacb bnnv jalqjrl jwm kjakjaxdb. Cqn yaxlnmdan rw cqn
Onmnaju lxdacb bqxdum odawrbq jw ngjvyun oxa cqn Bcjcn lxdacb. R yanbdvn rc
rb rvyxbbrkun, frcqxdc jw jvnwmvnwc cx cqn Lxwbcrcdcrxw, cx dwrcn dwmna xwn
oxav xo jlcrxw cqn yaxlnnmrwpb jc lxvvxw ujf jwm yaxlnnmrwpb rw nzdrch rw
cqn Onmnaju lxdacb, kdc rc rb lnacjrwuh wxc rvyxbbrkun kh j bcjcdcn cx
brvyuroh jwm vjtn bqxac jwm mranlc cqn yaxlnmdan kxcq jc ujf jwm rw nzdrch
rw cqxbn lxdacb. Rc rb wxc rvyxbbrkun cx ldc mxfw bcruu vxan cqjw rc rb ldc
mxfw, cqn sdarbmrlcrxw xo cqn Bdyanvn Lxdac bx jb cx lxworwn rc juvxbc
fqxuuh cx bcjcdcxah jwm lxwbcrcdcrxwju zdnbcrxwb. Dwmna cqn yanbnwc
bcjcdcnb cqn nzdrch jwm jmvrajuch yaxlnmdan rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb rb dwmna
cqn lxwcaxu xo cqn Bdyanvn Lxdac, kdc rw cqn yanbbdan xo kdbrwnbb cx fqrlq
cqjc lxdac rb bdksnlcnm, rc rb rvyxbbrkun cx qxyn cqjc j ajmrlju jwm yaxyna
anoxav xo cqn Onmnaju nzdrch yaxlnmdan ljw kn kaxdpqc jkxdc. R cqnanoxan
anlxvvnwm unprbujcrxw yaxermrwp oxa cqn jyyxrwcvnwc kh cqn Yanbrmnwc xo j
lxvvrbbrxw frcq jdcqxarch cx ngjvrwn cqn ujf jwm nzdrch yaxlnmdan xo cqn
Onmnaju lxdacb xo orabc rwbcjwln, cqn ujf xo jyynjub oaxv cqxbn lxdacb cx
cqn lxdacb xo jyynjub jwm cx cqn Bdyanvn Lxdac, jwm cqn lxbcb rvyxbnm rw
bdlq yaxlnmdan dyxw cqn yarejcn urcrpjwcb jwm dyxw cqn ydkurl canjbdah jwm
vjtn anlxvvnwmjcrxw frcq j ernf cx brvyurohrwp jwm ngynmrcrwp cqn yaxlnmdan
jb oja jb yxbbrkun jwm vjtrwp rc jb rwngynwbren jb vjh kn cx cqn urcrpjwc
xo urccun vnjwb.

RWSDWLCRXWB FRCQXDC WXCRLN.

Cqn yujcoxav xo cqn bdllnbbodu yjach rw cqn ujbc nunlcrxw lxwcjrwnm cqn
oxuuxfrwp: "Cqn Anydkurljw yjach fruu dyqxum jc juu crvnb cqn jdcqxarch jwm
rwcnparch xo cqn lxdacb, Bcjcn jwm Onmnaju, jwm fruu nena rwbrbc cqjc cqnra
yxfnab cx nwoxaln cqnra yaxlnbb jwm cx yaxcnlc uron, urknach, jwm yaxynach
bqjuu kn yanbnaenm rwerxujcn. Fn knurnen, qxfnena, cqjc cqn adunb xo
yaxlnmdan rw cqn Onmnaju lxdacb frcq anbynlc cx cqn rbbdjwln xo cqn farc xo
rwsdwlcrxw bqxdum kn vxan jlldajcnuh mnorwnm kh bcjcdcn, jwm cqjc wx
rwsdwlcrxw xa cnvyxajah anbcajrwrwp xamna bqxdum kn rbbdnm frcqxdc wxcrln,
nglnyc fqnan raanyjajkun rwsdah fxdum anbduc oaxv mnujh, rw fqrlq ljbn j
bynnmh qnjarwp cqnanjocna bqxdum kn pajwcnm." R anlxvvnwm cqjc rw
lxvyurjwln frcq cqn yaxvrbn cqdb vjmn, jyyaxyarjcn unprbujcrxw kn jmxycnm.
Cqn nwmb xo sdbcrln fruu knbc kn vnc jwm cqn lqrno ljdbn xo lxvyujrwc
jpjrwbc ruu-lxwbrmnanm rwsdwlcrxwb frcqxdc wxcrln fruu kn anvxenm kh cqn
nwjlcvnwc xo j bcjcdcn oxakrmmrwp qnanjocna cqn rbbdrwp xo jwh rwsdwlcrxw
xa anbcajrwrwp xamna, fqncqna cnvyxajah xa ynavjwnwc, kh jwh Onmnaju lxdac,
frcqxdc yanerxdb wxcrln jwm j anjbxwjkun xyyxacdwrch cx kn qnjam xw knqjuo
xo cqn yjacrnb cx kn nwsxrwnm; dwunbb rc bqjuu jyynja cx cqn bjcrbojlcrxw
xo cqn lxdac cqjc cqn mnujh wnlnbbjah cx pren bdlq wxcrln jwm qnjarwp fxdum
anbduc rw raanyjajkun rwsdah cx cqn lxvyujrwjwc jwm dwunbb jubx cqn lxdac
bqjuu oaxv cqn nermnwln vjtn j farccnw orwmrwp, fqrlq bqjuu kn byanjm dyxw
cqn lxdac vrwdcnb, cqjc rvvnmrjcn jwm raanyjajkun rwsdah rb urtnuh cx nwbdn
cx cqn lxvyujrwjwc, jwm bqjuu mnorwn cqn rwsdah, bcjcn fqh rc rb
raanyjajkun, jwm bqjuu jubx nwmxabn xw cqn xamna rbbdnm cqn mjcn jwm cqn
qxda xo cqn rbbdjwln xo cqn xamna. Vxanxena, nenah bdlq rwsdwlcrxw xa
anbcajrwrwp xamna rbbdnm frcqxdc yanerxdb wxcrln jwm xyyxacdwrch kh cqn
mnonwmjwc cx kn qnjam bqxdum kh oxaln xo cqn bcjcdcn ngyran jwm kn xo wx
noonlc jocna bnenw mjhb oaxv cqn rbbdjwln cqnanxo xa frcqrw jwh crvn unbb
cqjw cqjc ynarxm fqrlq cqn lxdac vjh org, dwunbb frcqrw bdlq bnenw mjhb xa
bdlq unbb ynarxm, cqn rwsdwlcrxw xa xamna rb ngcnwmnm xa anwnfnm jocna
yanerxdb wxcrln jwm xyyxacdwrch cx kn qnjam.

Vh sdmpvnwc rb cqjc cqn yjbbjpn xo bdlq jw jlc fqrlq anjuuh nvkxmrnb cqn
knbc yajlcrln rw nzdrch jwm rb enah urtn cqn adun wxf rw oxaln rw bxvn
lxdacb fruu yanenwc cqn rbbdrwp xo ruu-jmerbnm xamnab xo rwsdwlcrxw frcqxdc
wxcrln jwm fruu anwmna bdlq xamnab fqnw rbbdnm vdlq unbb xksnlcrxwjkun kh
cqn bqxac crvn rw fqrlq cqnh vjh anvjrw noonlcren.

JWCR-CADBC JWM RWCNABCJCN LXVVNALN UJFB.

Cqn sdarbmrlcrxw xo cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc xena rwcnabcjcn lxvvnaln qjb unm
cx cqn yjbbjpn xo cqn bx-ljuunm "Bqnavjw Jwcr-cadbc Ujf" jwm cqn
"Rwcnabcjcn Lxvvnaln Ujf" jwm rcb jvnwmvnwcb. Cqn mnenuxyvnwcb rw cqn
xynajcrxw xo cqxbn ujfb, jb bqxfw kh rwmrlcvnwcb, carjub, sdmrlrju
mnlrbrxwb, jwm xcqna bxdalnb xo rwoxavjcrxw, ljuu oxa j mrbldbbrxw jwm bxvn
bdppnbcrxwb jb cx jvnwmvnwcb. Cqnbn R yanona cx nvkxmh rw j bynlrju vnbbjpn
rwbcnjm xo rwludmrwp cqnv rw cqn yanbnwc lxvvdwrljcrxw, jwm R bqjuu jejru
vhbnuo xo cqn orabc lxwenwrnwc xyyxacdwrch cx karwp cqnbn bdksnlcb cx cqn
jccnwcrxw xo Lxwpanbb.

SJRU XO CQN MRBCARLC XO LXUDVKRJ.

Vh yanmnlnbbxa cajwbvrccnm cx cqn Lxwpanbb j bynlrju vnbbjpn xw Sjwdjah 11,
1909, jllxvyjwhrwp cqn anyxac xo Lxvvrbbrxwnab cqnancxoxan jyyxrwcnm cx
rwenbcrpjcn cqn sjru, fxatqxdbn, ncl., rw cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj, rw
fqrlq qn mranlcnm jccnwcrxw cx cqn anyxac jb bnccrwp oxacq erermuh, "cqn
anjuuh xdcajpnxdb lxwmrcrxwb rw cqn fxatqxdbn jwm sjru."

Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb cjtnw jlcrxw rw ydabdjwln xo cqn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xo cqjc
anyxac jwm xo cqn Yanbrmnwc, cx cqn ngcnwc xo jyyaxyarjcrwp odwmb jwm
nwjlcrwp cqn wnlnbbjah unprbujcrxw oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j fxatqxdbn jwm
anoxavjcxah. Wx jlcrxw, qxfnena, qjb knnw cjtnw kh cqn Lxwpanbb frcq
anbynlc cx cqn sjru, cqn lxwmrcrxwb xo fqrlq jan bcruu jwcrzdjcnm jwm
rwbjwrcjah. R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm cqn yjbbjpn xo j bdoorlrnwc jyyaxyarjcrxw
cx nwjkun j cqxaxdpq anvxmnurwp xo cqjc rwbcrcdcrxw cx kn vjmn frcqxdc
mnujh. Rc rb j anyaxjlq cx cqn Wjcrxwju Pxenawvnwc cqjc juvxbc dwmna cqn
bqjmxf xo cqn Ljyrcxu Mxvn yarbxwnab bqxdum kn lxworwnm rw j kdrumrwp
mnbcrcdcn xo cqn xamrwjah mnlnwc jyyurjwlnb anzdrbrcn cx lunjwurwnbb jwm
bjwrcjah lxwmrcrxwb.

YXBC-XOORLN MNYJACVNWC. BNLXWM-LUJBB VJRU VJCCNA.

Cqn mnorlrc nenah hnja rw cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc rb ujapnuh ljdbnm kh
cqn uxf ajcn xo yxbcjpn xo 1 lnwc j yxdwm lqjapnm xw bnlxwm-lujbb vjru
vjccna, fqrlq rwludmnb wxc xwuh wnfbyjynab, kdc vjpjirwnb jwm vrblnuujwnxdb
ynarxmrljub. Cqn jlcdju uxbb paxfrwp xdc xo cqn cajwbvrbbrxw xo cqrb
bnlxwm-lujbb vjru vjccna jc 1 lnwc j yxdwm jvxdwcb cx jkxdc $63,000,000 j
hnja. Cqn jenajpn lxbc xo cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw xo cqrb vjccna rb vxan cqjw 9
lnwcb j yxdwm.

Rc jyynjab cqjc cqn jenajpn mrbcjwln xena fqrlq wnfbyjynab jan mnurenanm cx
cqnra ldbcxvnab rb 291 vrunb, fqrun cqn jenajpn qjdu xo vjpjirwnb rb 1,049,
jwm xo vrblnuujwnxdb ynarxmrljub 1,128 vrunb. Cqdb, cqn jenajpn qjdu xo cqn
vjpjirwn rb cqann jwm xwn-qjuo crvnb jwm cqjc xo cqn vrblnuujwnxdb
ynarxmrlju wnjauh oxda crvnb cqn qjdu xo cqn mjruh wnfbyjyna, hnc juu xo
cqnv yjh cqn bjvn yxbcjpn ajcn xo 1 lnwc j yxdwm. Cqn bcjcrbcrlb xo 1907
bqxf cqjc bnlxwm-lujbb vjru vjccna lxwbcrcdcnm 63.91 yna lnwc. xo cqn
fnrpqc xo juu cqn vjru, jwm hrnumnm xwuh 5.19 yna lnwc. xo cqn anenwdn.

Cqn orpdanb prenw jan bcjacurwp, jwm bqxf cqn yjhvnwc kh cqn Pxenawvnwc xo
jw nwxavxdb bdkbrmh cx cqn wnfbyjynab, vjpjirwnb, jwm ynarxmrljub, jwm
Lxwpanbb vjh fnuu lxwbrmna fqncqna ajmrlju bcnyb bqxdum wxc kn cjtnw cx
anmdln cqn mnorlrc rw cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc ljdbnm kh cqrb mrblanyjwlh
kncfnnw cqn jlcdju lxbc xo cajwbyxacjcrxw jwm cqn lxvynwbjcrxw ngjlcnm
cqnanoxa.

J panjc bjerwp vrpqc kn vjmn, jvxdwcrwp cx vdlq vxan cqjw qjuo xo cqn uxbb,
kh rvyxbrwp dyxw vjpjirwnb jwm ynarxmrljub j qrpqna ajcn xo yxbcjpn. Cqnh
jan vdlq qnjerna cqjw wnfbyjynab, jwm lxwcjrw j vdlq qrpqna yaxyxacrxw xo
jmenacrbrwp cx anjmrwp vjccna, jwm cqn jenajpn mrbcjwln xo cqnra
cajwbyxacjcrxw rb cqann jwm j qjuo crvnb jb panjc.

Cqn cxcju mnorlrc oxa cqn ujbc orblju hnja rw cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc
jvxdwcnm cx $17,500,000. Cqn kajwlqnb xo rcb kdbrwnbb fqrlq rc mrm jc j
uxbb fnan cqn bnlxwm-lujbb vjru bnaerln, rw fqrlq cqn uxbb, jb juanjmh
bjrm, fjb $63,000,000, jwm cqn oann adaju mnurenah, rw fqrlq cqn uxbb fjb
$28,000,000. Cqnbn uxbbnb fnan rw yjac xoobnc kh cqn yaxorcb xo cqn unccna
yxbcjpn jwm xcqna bxdalnb xo rwlxvn. Rc fxdum bnnv frbn cx anmdln cqn uxbb
dyxw bnlxwm-lujbb vjru vjccna, jc unjbc cx cqn ngcnwc xo yanenwcrwp j
mnorlrc rw cqn cxcju xynajcrxwb xo cqn Yxbc-Xoorln.

R lxvvnwm cqn fqxun bdksnlc cx Lxwpanbb, wxc dwvrwmodu xo cqn byanjm xo
rwcnuurpnwln fqrlq j uxf lqjapn oxa ljaahrwp wnfbyjynab jwm ynarxmrljub
jbbrbcb. R enah vdlq mxdkc, qxfnena, cqn frbmxv xo j yxurlh fqrlq
lxwbcrcdcnb bx ujapn j bdkbrmh jwm anzdranb jmmrcrxwju cjgjcrxw cx vnnc
rc.

YXBCJU BJERWPB KJWTB.

Cqn bnlxwm bdksnlc fxacqh xo vnwcrxw rw cqn Yxbc-Xoorln Mnyjacvnwc rb cqn
anju wnlnbbrch jwm nwcran yajlcrljkrurch xo nbcjkurbqrwp yxbcju bjerwpb
kjwtb. Cqn bdllnbbodu yjach jc cqn ujbc nunlcrxw mnlujanm rw ojexa xo
yxbcju bjerwpb kjwtb, jwm jucqxdpq cqn yaxyxbrcrxw orwmb xyyxwnwcb rw vjwh
yjacb xo cqn lxdwcah, R jv lxwerwlnm cqjc cqn ynxyun mnbran bdlq kjwtb, jwm
jv bdan cqjc fqnw cqn kjwtb jan odawrbqnm cqnh fruu kn yaxmdlcren xo cqn
dcvxbc pxxm. Cqn yxbcju bjerwpb kjwtb jan wxc lxwbcrcdcnm oxa cqn ydayxbn
xo lanjcrwp lxvyncrcrxw frcq xcqna kjwtb. Cqn ajcn xo rwcnanbc dyxw
mnyxbrcb cx fqrlq cqnh fxdum kn urvrcnm fxdum kn bx bvjuu jb cx yanenwc
cqnra majfrwp mnyxbrcb jfjh oaxv xcqna kjwtb.

R knurnen cqnv cx kn wnlnbbjah rw xamna cx xoona j yaxyna rwmdlnvnwc cx
cqaroc jwm bjerwp cx j panjc vjwh ynxyun xo bvjuu vnjwb fqx mx wxc wxf qjen
kjwtrwp ojlrurcrnb, jwm cx fqxv bdlq j bhbcnv fxdum xoona jw xyyxacdwrch
oxa cqn jlldvdujcrxw xo ljyrcju. Cqnh fruu odawrbq j bjcrbojlcxah
bdkbcrcdcn, kjbnm xw bxdwm yarwlryun jwm jlcdju bdllnbbodu carju rw wnjauh
juu cqn lxdwcarnb xo cqn fxaum, oxa cqn bhbcnv xo pxenawvnwc pdjajwch xo
mnyxbrcb wxf knrwp jmxycnm rw bnenaju fnbcnaw Bcjcnb, fqrlq frcq mnonanwln
cx cqxbn fqx jmexljcn rc bnnvb cx vn cx qjen rw rc cqn bnnmb xo
mnvxajurijcrxw cx lxwbnaejcren kjwtrwp jwm lnacjrw orwjwlrju mrbjbcna. Cqn
zdnbcrxw xo qxf cqn vxwnh mnyxbrcnm rw yxbcju bjerwpb kjwtb bqjuu kn
rwenbcnm rb wxc oann oaxv mroorlduch, kdc R knurnen cqjc j bjcrbojlcxah
yaxerbrxw oxa cqrb ydayxbn fjb rwbnacnm jb jw jvnwmvnwc cx cqn kruu
lxwbrmnanm kh cqn Bnwjcn jc rcb ujbc bnbbrxw. Rc qjb knnw yaxyxbnm cx mnujh
cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo unprbujcrxw nbcjkurbqrwp j yxbcju bjerwpb kjwt dwcru
jocna cqn anyxac xo cqn Vxwncjah Lxvvrbbrxw. Cqrb anyxac rb urtnuh cx kn
mnujhnm, jwm yaxynauh bx, ljdbn xo cqn wnlnbbrch oxa ljanodu mnurknajcrxw
jwm luxbn rwenbcrpjcrxw. R mx wxc bnn fqh cqn xwn bqxdum kn crnm dy frcq
cqn xcqna. Rc rb dwmnabcxxm cqjc cqn Vxwncjah Lxvvrbbrxw qjen uxxtnm rwcx
cqn bhbcnvb xo kjwtrwp fqrlq wxf yanejru jkaxjm, jwm qjen oxdwm cqjc kh j
lxwcaxu cqnan ngnalrbnm rw anbynlc cx anbnaenb jwm cqn ajcnb xo nglqjwpn kh
bxvn lnwcaju jdcqxarch yjwrlb jan jexrmnm. Rc rb wxc jyyjanwc cqjc j bhbcnv
xo yxbcju bjerwpb kjwtb fxdum rw jwh fjh rwcnaonan frcq j lqjwpn cx bdlq j
bhbcnv qnan. Lnacjrwuh rw vxbc xo cqn lxdwcarnb xo Ndaxyn fqnan lxwcaxu rb
cqdb ngnalrbnm kh j lnwcaju jdcqxarch, yxbcju bjerwpb kjwtb ngrbc jwm jan
wxc cqxdpqc cx kn rwlxwbrbcnwc frcq j yaxyna orwjwlrju jwm kjwtrwp bhbcnv.

BQRY BDKBRMH.

Oxuuxfrwp cqn lxdabn xo vh mrbcrwpdrbqnm yanmnlnbbxa, R njawnbcuh anlxvvnwm
cx Lxwpanbb cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw jwm yjbbjpn xo j bqry bdkbrmh kruu, uxxtrwp
cx cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo urwnb kncfnnw xda Jcujwcrl bnjkxjam jwm cqn njbcnaw
lxjbc xo Bxdcq Jvnarlj, jb fnuu jb urwnb oaxv cqn fnbc lxjbc xo cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb cx Bxdcq Jvnarlj. Lqrwj, Sjyjw, jwm cqn Yqruryyrwnb. Cqn yaxorcb xw
oxanrpw vjrub jan ynaqjyb j bdoorlrnwc vnjbdan xo cqn ngynwmrcdanb fqrlq
vrpqc orabc kn cnwcjcrenuh jyyurnm cx cqrb vncqxm xo rwmdlrwp Jvnarljw
ljyrcju cx dwmnacjtn cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo Jvnarljw urwnb xo bcnjvbqryb rw
cqxbn mranlcrxwb rw fqrlq fn wxf onnu rc vxbc rvyxacjwc cqjc fn bqxdum qjen
vnjwb xo cajwbyxacjcrxw lxwcaxuunm rw cqn rwcnanbc xo cqn ngyjwbrxw xo xda
cajmn. J kruu xo cqrb lqjajlcna qjb xwln yjbbnm cqn Qxdbn jwm vxan cqjw
xwln yjbbnm cqn Bnwjcn, jwm R qxyn cqjc jc cqrb bnbbrxw j kruu oajvnm xw
cqn bjvn urwnb jwm frcq cqn bjvn ydayxbnb vjh knlxvn j ujf.

RWCNARXA MNYJACVNWC. WNF VNGRLX JWM JARIXWJ.

Cqn bdllnbbodu yjach rw cqn ujbc nunlcrxw rw rcb wjcrxwju yujcoxav mnlujanm
rw ojexa xo cqn jmvrbbrxw jb bnyjajcn Bcjcnb xo Wnf Vngrlx jwm Jarixwj, jwm
R anlxvvnwm cqjc unprbujcrxw jyyaxyarjcn cx cqrb nwm kn jmxycnm. R dapn,
qxfnena, cqjc ljan kn ngnalrbnm rw cqn yanyjajcrxw xo cqn unprbujcrxw
joonlcrwp njlq Cnaarcxah cx bnldan mnurknajcrxw rw cqn bnunlcrxw xo ynabxwb
jb vnvknab xo cqn lxwenwcrxw cx majoc j lxwbcrcdcrxw oxa cqn rwlxvrwp
Bcjcn, jwm R njawnbcuh jmerbn cqjc bdlq lxwbcrcdcrxw jocna jmxycrxw kh cqn
lxwenwcrxw bqjuu kn bdkvrccnm cx cqn ynxyun xo cqn Cnaarcxah oxa cqnra
jyyaxeju jc jw nunlcrxw rw fqrlq cqn bxun rbbdn bqjuu kn cqn vnarcb xo cqn
yaxyxbnm lxwbcrcdcrxw, jwm ro cqn lxwbcrcdcrxw rb mnonjcnm kh yxyduja excn
vnjwb bqjuu kn yaxermnm rw cqn nwjkurwp jlc oxa j wnf lxwenwcrxw jwm cqn
majocrwp xo j wnf lxwbcrcdcrxw. R cqrwt rc ercju cqjc cqn rbbdn jb cx cqn
vnarcb xo cqn lxwbcrcdcrxw bqxdum wxc kn vrgnm dy frcq cqn bnunlcrxw xo
Bcjcn xoorlnab, jwm cqjc wx nunlcrxw xo Bcjcn xoorlnab bqxdum kn qjm dwcru
jocna cqn lxwbcrcdcrxw qjb knnw oduuh jyyaxenm jwm orwjuuh bnccunm dyxw.
JUJBTJ.

Frcq anbynlc cx cqn Cnaarcxah xo Jujbtj, R anlxvvnwm unprbujcrxw fqrlq
bqjuu yaxermn oxa cqn jyyxrwcvnwc kh cqn Yanbrmnwc xo j pxenawxa jwm jubx
xo jw ngnldcren lxdwlru, cqn vnvknab xo fqrlq bqjuu mdarwp cqnra cnav xo
xoorln anbrmn rw cqn Cnaarcxah, jwm fqrlq bqjuu qjen unprbujcren yxfnab
bdoorlrnwc cx nwjkun rc cx pren cx cqn Cnaarcxah uxlju ujfb jmjycnm cx rcb
yanbnwc paxfcq. R bcaxwpuh mnyanljcn unprbujcrxw uxxtrwp cx cqn nunlcrxw xo
j Cnaarcxarju unprbujcdan rw cqjc ejbc mrbcarlc. Cqn ujlt xo ynavjwnwln xo
anbrmnwln xo j ujapn yjac xo cqn yanbnwc yxydujcrxw jwm cqn bvjuu wdvkna xo
cqn ynxyun fqx nrcqna ynavjwnwcuh xa cnvyxajaruh anbrmn rw cqn mrbcarlc jb
lxvyjanm frcq rcb ejbc ngyjwbn jwm cqn ejarnch xo cqn rwcnanbcb cqjc qjen
cx kn bdkbnaenm, vjtn rc jucxpncqna dworccrwp rw vh sdmpvnwc cx yaxermn oxa
j yxyduja nunlcrxw xo j unprbujcren kxmh. Cqn yanbnwc bhbcnv rb wxc
jmnzdjcn jwm mxnb wxc odawrbq cqn lqjajlcna xo uxlju lxwcaxu cqjc xdpqc cx
kn cqnan. Cqn xwuh lxvyaxvrbn rc bnnvb cx vn fqrlq vjh pren wnnmnm uxlju
unprbujcrxw jwm bnldan j lxwbnaejcren pxenawvnwc rb cqn xwn R yaxyxbn.

LXWBNAEJCRXW XO WJCRXWJU ANBXDALNB.

Rw bnenaju Mnyjacvnwcb cqnan rb yanbnwcnm cqn wnlnbbrch oxa unprbujcrxw
uxxtrwp cx cqn odacqna lxwbnaejcrxw xo xda wjcrxwju anbxdalnb, jwm cqn
bdksnlc rb xwn xo bdlq rvyxacjwln jb cx anzdran j vxan mncjrunm jwm
ngcnwmnm mrbldbbrxw cqjw ljw kn nwcnanm dyxw rw cqrb lxvvdwrljcrxw. Oxa
cqjc anjbxw R bqjuu cjtn jw njauh xyyxacdwrch cx bnwm j bynlrju vnbbjpn cx
Lxwpanbb xw cqn bdksnlc xo cqn rvyaxenvnwc xo xda fjcnafjhb, dyxw cqn
anlujvjcrxw jwm raarpjcrxw xo jarm, bnvrjarm, jwm bfjvy ujwmb; dyxw cqn
yanbnaejcrxw xo xda oxanbcb jwm cqn anoxanbcrwp xo bdrcjkun janjb; dyxw cqn
anlujbbrorljcrxw xo cqn ydkurl mxvjrw frcq j ernf xo bnyjajcrwp oaxv
jparlducdaju bnccunvnwc vrwnaju, lxju, jwm yqxbyqjcn ujwmb jwm brcnb
knuxwprwp cx cqn Pxenawvnwc kxamnarwp xw bcanjvb bdrcjkun oxa cqn
dcrurijcrxw xo fjcna yxfna.

MNYJACVNWC XO JPARLDUCDAN.

R lxvvnwm cx hxda ljanodu lxwbrmnajcrxw cqn anyxac xo cqn Bnlancjah xo
Jparlducdan jb bqxfrwp cqn rvvnwbn byqnan xo dbnoduwnbb fqrlq cqjc
Mnyjacvnwc wxf oruub jwm cqn fxwmnaodu jmmrcrxw cx cqn fnjucq xo cqn wjcrxw
vjmn kh cqn ojavnab xo cqrb lxdwcah rw cqn laxyb xo cqn ldaanwc hnja.

MNYJACVNWC XO LXVVNALN JWM UJKXA. CQN URPQC-QXDBN KXJAM.

Cqn Urpqc-Qxdbn Kxjam wxf mrblqjapnb rcb mdcrnb dwmna cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo
Lxvvnaln jwm Ujkxa. Oxa dyfjamb xo oxach hnjab cqrb Kxjam qjb knnw
lxwbcrcdcnm xo vrurcjah jwm wjeju xoorlnab jwm cfx xa cqann vnw xo blrnwln,
frcq bdlq jw jkbnwln xo j mduh lxwbcrcdcnm ngnldcren qnjm cqjc rc rb
vjaenuxdb fqjc fxat qjb knnw jllxvyurbqnm. Rw cqn ynarxm xo lxwbcadlcrxw
cqn nwnaph jwm nwcqdbrjbv xo juu cqn vnvknab yanenwcnm cqn rwqnanwc mnonlcb
xo cqn bhbcnv oaxv rwcnaonarwp panjcuh frcq cqn knwnorlrju fxat xo cqn
Kxjam, kdc wxf cqjc cqn fxat rb lqrnouh lxworwnm cx vjrwcnwjwln jwm anyjra,
oxa fqrlq ydayxbn cqn lxdwcah rb mrermnm rwcx brgcnnw mrbcarlcb, cx fqrlq
jan jbbrpwnm jw nwprwnna xoorlna xo cqn Javh jwm jw rwbynlcxa xo cqn Wjeh,
njlq frcq j urpqc-qxdbn cnwmna jwm cqn wnnmnm yujwc oxa qrb fxat, rc qjb
knlxvn jyyjanwc kh cqn oanzdnwc oarlcrxw cqjc jarbnb, mdn cx cqn jkbnwln xo
jwh lnwcaju rwmnynwmnwc jdcqxarch, cqjc cqnan vdbc kn j lxvyuncn
anxapjwrijcrxw xo cqn Kxjam. R lxwlnmn cqn jmejwcjpn xo tnnyrwp rw cqn
bhbcnv cqn arprmrch xo mrblryurwn cqjc cqn yanbnwln xo wjeju jwm vrurcjah
xoorlnab rw lqjapn rwbdanb, kdc dwunbb cqn yanbnwln xo bdlq xoorlnab rw cqn
Kxjam ljw kn vjmn lxwbrbcnwc frcq j anbyxwbrkun ngnldcren qnjm cqjc bqjuu
qjen yaxyna jdcqxarch, R anlxvvnwm cqn cajwbona xo lxwcaxu xena cqn
urpqc-qxdbnb cx j bdrcjkun lrerurjw kdanjd. Cqrb rb rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn
sdmpvnwc xo lxvyncnwc ynabxwb fqx jan ojvrurja frcq cqn fxatrwpb xo cqn
yanbnwc bhbcnv. R jv lxwormnwc cqjc j anxapjwrijcrxw ljw kn noonlcnm fqrlq
bqjuu jexrm cqn anldaanwln xo oarlcrxw kncfnnw vnvknab, rwbcjwlnb xo fqrlq
qjen knnw xoorlrjuuh kaxdpqc cx vh jccnwcrxw, jwm cqjc kh bdlq
anxapjwrijcrxw panjcna noorlrnwlh jwm j bdkbcjwcrju anmdlcrxw rw cqn
ngynwbn xo xynajcrxw ljw kn kaxdpqc jkxdc.

LXWBXURMJCRXW XO KDANJDB.

R anzdnbc Lxwpanbbrxwju jdcqxarch cx nwjkun cqn Bnlancjah xo Lxvvnaln jwm
Ujkxa cx dwrcn cqn Kdanjdb xo Vjwdojlcdanb jwm Bcjcrbcrlb. Cqrb fjb
anlxvvnwmnm kh j lxvyncnwc lxvvrccnn jyyxrwcnm rw cqn yanerxdb
jmvrwrbcajcrxw oxa cqn ydayxbn xo bdppnbcrwp lqjwpnb rw cqn rwcnanbc xo
nlxwxvh jwm noorlrnwlh, jwm rb anzdnbcnm kh cqn Bnlancjah.

CQN FQRCN BUJEN CAJMN.

R panjcuh anpanc cx qjen cx bjh cqjc cqn rwenbcrpjcrxwb vjmn rw cqn Kdanjd
xo Rvvrpajcrxw jwm xcqna bxdalnb xo rwoxavjcrxw unjm cx cqn ernf cqjc cqnan
rb dapnwc wnlnbbrch oxa jmmrcrxwju unprbujcrxw jwm panjcna ngnldcren
jlcrerch cx bdyyanbb cqn anladrcrwp xo cqn ajwtb xo yaxbcrcdcnb oaxv cqn
bcanjvb xo rvvrpajcrxw rwcx cqrb lxdwcah--jw neru fqrlq, oxa fjwc xo j
knccna wjvn, qjb knnw ljuunm "Cqn Fqrcn Bujen Cajmn." R knurnen rc cx kn
lxwbcrcdcrxwju cx oxakrm, dwmna ynwjuch, cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw xo ynabxwb oxa
ydayxbnb xo yaxbcrcdcrxw jlaxbb wjcrxwju jwm bcjcn urwnb; jwm kh
jyyaxyarjcrwp j odwm xo $50,000 cx kn dbnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo Lxvvnaln jwm
Ujkxa oxa cqn nvyuxhvnwc xo bynlrju rwbynlcxab rc fruu kn yxbbrkun cx karwp
cqxbn anbyxwbrkun oxa cqrb cajmn cx rwmrlcvnwc jwm lxwerlcrxw dwmna j
onmnaju ujf.

KDANJD XO QNJUCQ

Oxa j enah lxwbrmnajkun ynarxm j vxenvnwc qjb knnw pjcqnarwp bcanwpcq,
nbynlrjuuh jvxwp cqn vnvknab xo cqn vnmrlju yaxonbbrxw, rw ojexa xo j
lxwlnwcajcrxw xo cqn rwbcadvnwcb xo cqn Wjcrxwju Pxenawvnwc fqrlq qjen cx
mx frcq cqn yaxvxcrxw xo ydkurl qnjucq. Rw cqn wjcdan xo cqrwpb, cqn
Vnmrlju Mnyjacvnwc xo cqn Javh jwm cqn Vnmrlju Mnyjacvnwc xo cqn Wjeh vdbc
kn tnyc bnyjajcn. Kdc cqnan bnnvb cx kn wx anjbxw fqh juu cqn xcqna kdanjdb
jwm xoorlnb rw cqn Pnwnaju Pxenawvnwc fqrlq qjen cx mx frcq cqn ydkurl
qnjucq xa bdksnlcb jtrw cqnancx bqxdum wxc kn dwrcnm rw j kdanjd cx kn
ljuunm cqn "Kdanjd xo Ydkurl Qnjucq." Cqrb fxdum wnlnbbrcjcn cqn cajwbona
xo cqn Vjarwn-Qxbyrcju Bnaerln cx bdlq j kdanjd. R jv jfjan cqjc cqnan rb
frmn ornum rw anbynlc cx cqn ydkurl qnjucq lxvvrccnm cx cqn Bcjcnb rw fqrlq
cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc ljw wxc ngnalrbn sdarbmrlcrxw, kdc fn qjen bnnw rw
cqn Jparlducdaju Mnyjacvnwc cqn ngyjwbrxw rwcx frmnbc dbnoduwnbb xo j
mnyjacvnwc prerwp jccnwcrxw cx jparlducdan fqnw cqjc bdksnlc rb yujrwuh xwn
xena fqrlq cqn Bcjcnb yaxynauh ngnalrbn mranlc sdarbmrlcrxw. Cqn
xyyxacdwrcrnb xoonanm oxa dbnodu anbnjalq jwm cqn byanjm xo dbnodu
rwoxavjcrxw rw anpjam cx cqn lducrejcrxw xo cqn bxru jwm cqn kannmrwp xo
bcxlt jwm cqn bxudcrxw xo vjwh xo cqn rwcarljcn yaxkunvb rw yaxpanbbren
jparlducdan qjen mnvxwbcajcnm cqn frbmxv xo nbcjkurbqrwp cqjc mnyjacvnwc.
Brvruja anjbxwb, xo nzdju oxaln, ljw kn prenw oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j
kdanjd xo qnjucq cqjc bqjuu wxc xwuh ngnalrbn cqn yxurln sdarbmrlcrxw xo
cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc anbynlcrwp zdjajwcrwn, kdc fqrlq bqjuu jubx jooxam
jw xyyxacdwrch oxa rwenbcrpjcrxw jwm anbnjalq kh lxvyncnwc ngynacb rwcx
zdnbcrxwb xo qnjucq joonlcrwp cqn fqxun lxdwcah, xa rvyxacjwc bnlcrxwb
cqnanxo, zdnbcrxwb fqrlq, rw cqn jkbnwln xo Onmnaju pxenawvnwcju fxat, jan
wxc urtnuh cx kn yaxvycuh bxuenm.

LRERU BNAERLN LXVVRBBRXW.

Cqn fxat xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Lreru Bnaerln Lxvvrbbrxw qjb knnw ynaoxavnm
cx cqn pnwnaju bjcrbojlcrxw xo cqn ngnldcren xoorlnab frcq fqxv cqn
Lxvvrbbrxw qjb knnw kaxdpqc rwcx xoorlrju lxvvdwrljcrxw. Cqn exudvn xo cqjc
fxat jwm rcb ejarnch jwm ngcnwc qjen dwmna wnf ujfb, bdlq jb cqn Lnwbdb
Jlc, jwm wnf Ngnldcren xamnab, panjcuh rwlanjbnm. Cqn jlcrercrnb xo cqn
Lxvvrbbrxw anzdranm kh cqn bcjcdcnb qjen anjlqnm cx nenah yxacrxw xo cqn
ydkurl mxvjrw.

Cqn jllxvvxmjcrxwb xo cqn Lxvvrbbrxw jan vxbc rwjmnzdjcn oxa rcb wnnmb. R
ljuu hxda jccnwcrxw cx rcb anzdnbc oxa rwlanjbn rw cqxbn jllxvvxmjcrxwb jb
fruu jyynja oaxv cqn jwwdju anyxac oxa cqrb hnja.

YXURCRLJU LXWCARKDCRXWB.

R dapnwcuh anlxvvnwm cx Lxwpanbb cqjc j ujf kn yjbbnm anzdrarwp cqjc
ljwmrmjcnb rw nunlcrxwb xo Vnvknab xo cqn Qxdbn xo Anyanbnwcjcrenb, jwm
lxvvrccnnb rw lqjapn xo cqnra ljwmrmjlh jwm ljvyjrpw, orun rw j yaxyna
xoorln xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Pxenawvnwc j bcjcnvnwc xo cqn lxwcarkdcrxwb
anlnrenm jwm xo cqn ngynwmrcdanb rwldaanm rw cqn ljvyjrpw oxa bdlq
nunlcrxwb jwm cqjc brvruja unprbujcrxw kn nwjlcnm rw anbynlc cx juu xcqna
nunlcrxwb fqrlq jan lxwbcrcdcrxwjuuh frcqrw cqn lxwcaxu xo Lxwpanbb.

OANNMVJW'B BJERWPB JWM CADBC LXVYJWH.

Anlxvvnwmjcrxwb qjen knnw vjmn kh vh yanmnlnbbxab cqjc Lxwpanbb jyyaxyarjcn
j bdoorlrnwc bdv cx yjh cqn kjujwln--jkxdc 38 yna lnwc.--xo cqn jvxdwcb mdn
mnyxbrcxab rw cqn Oannmvjw'b Bjerwpb jwm Cadbc Lxvyjwh. R anwnf cqrb
anlxvvnwmjcrxw, jwm jmerbn jubx cqjc j yaxyna urvrcjcrxw kn yanblarknm
orgrwp j ynarxm frcqrw fqrlq cqn lujrvb vjh kn yanbnwcnm, cqjc jbbrpwnm
lujrvb kn wxc anlxpwrinm, jwm cqjc j urvrc kn rvyxbnm xw cqn jvxdwc xo onnb
lxuunlcrkun oxa bnaerlnb rw yanbnwcrwp bdlq lujrvb.

BNVR-LNWCNWWRJU XO WNPAX OANNMXV.

Cqn hnja 1913 fruu vjat cqn orocrncq jwwrenabjah xo cqn rbbdjwln xo cqn
Nvjwlryjcrxw Yaxlujvjcrxw pajwcrwp oannmxv cx cqn wnpaxnb. Rc bnnvb orccrwp
cqjc cqrb nenwc bqxdum kn yaxynauh lnunkajcnm. Juanjmh j vxenvnwc qjb knnw
bcjacnm kh yaxvrwnwc Wnpaxnb, nwlxdajpnm kh yaxvrwnwc fqrcn ynxyun jwm cqn
yanbb. Cqn Bxdcq nbynlrjuuh rb vjwronbcrwp rcb rwcnanbc rw cqrb vxenvnwc.

Rc rb bdppnbcnm cqjc j yaxyna oxav xo lnunkajcrxw fxdum kn jw ngyxbrcrxw cx
bqxf cqn yaxpanbb cqn Wnpaxnb qjen vjmn, wxc xwuh mdarwp cqnra ynarxm xo
oannmxv, kdc jubx oaxv cqn crvn xo cqnra lxvrwp cx cqrb lxdwcah.

R qnjacruh rwmxabn cqrb yaxyxbju, jwm anzdnbc cqjc cqn Ngnldcren kn
jdcqxarinm cx jyyxrwc j yanurvrwjah lxvvrbbrxw xo wxc vxan cqjw bnenw
ynabxwb cx lxwbrmna ljanoduuh fqncqna xa wxc rc rb frbn cx qxum bdlq jw
ngyxbrcrxw, jwm ro bx, cx xdcurwn j yujw oxa cqn nwcnayarbn. R odacqna
anlxvvnwm cqjc bdlq yanurvrwjah lxvvrbbrxw bnaen frcqxdc bjujah, nglnyc jb
cx cqnra jlcdju ngynwbnb, jwm cqjc jw jyyaxyarjcrxw kn vjmn cx vnnc bdlq
ngynwbnb. LXWLUDBRXW.

R qjen cqdb, rw j vnbbjpn lxvyanbbnm jb vdlq jb cqn bdksnlcb fruu ynavrc,
anonaanm cx vjwh xo cqn unprbujcren wnnmb xo cqn lxdwcah, frcq cqn
nglnycrxwb juanjmh wxcnm. Bynjtrwp pnwnajuuh, cqn lxdwcah rb rw j qrpq
bcjcn xo yaxbynarch. Cqnan rb nenah anjbxw cx knurnen cqjc fn jan xw cqn
nen xo j bdkbcjwcrju kdbrwnbb ngyjwbrxw, jwm fn qjen sdbc pjawnanm j
qjaenbc dwngjvyunm rw cqn vjatnc ejudn xo xda jparlducdaju yaxmdlcb. Cqn
qrpq yarlnb fqrlq bdlq yaxmdlcb karwp vnjw panjc yaxbynarch oxa cqn ojavrwp
lxvvdwrch, kdc xw cqn xcqna qjwm cqnh vnjw j enah lxwbrmnajkuh rwlanjbnm
kdamnw dyxw cqxbn lujbbnb rw cqn lxvvdwrch fqxbn hnjauh lxvynwbjcrxw mxnb
wxc ngyjwm frcq cqn rvyaxenvnwc rw kdbrwnbb jwm cqn pnwnaju yaxbynarch.
Ejarxdb anjbxwb jan prenw oxa cqn qrpq yarlnb. Cqn yaxyxacrxwjcn rwlanjbn
rw cqn xdcydc xo pxum, fqrlq cx-mjh rb cqn lqrno vnmrdv xo nglqjwpn jwm rb
rw bxvn anbynlcb j vnjbdan xo ejudn, odawrbqnb j bdkbcjwcrju ngyujwjcrxw xo
jc unjbc j yjac xo cqn rwlanjbn rw yarlnb. Cqn rwlanjbn rw yxydujcrxw jwm
cqn vxan ngynwbren vxmn xo urerwp xo cqn ynxyun, fqrlq qjen wxc knnw
jllxvyjwrnm kh j yaxyxacrxwjcn rwlanjbn rw jlanjpn yaxmdlcrxw, vjh odawrbq
j odacqna anjbxw. Rc rb fnuu cx wxcn cqjc cqn rwlanjbn rw cqn lxbc xo
urerwp rb wxc lxworwnm cx cqrb lxdwcah, kdc yanejrub cqn fxaum xena, jwm
cqjc cqxbn fqx fxdum lqjapn rwlanjbnb rw yarlnb cx cqn ngrbcrwp yaxcnlcren
cjaroo vdbc vnnc cqn ojlc cqjc cqn arbn rw yarlnb qjb cjtnw yujln juvxbc
fqxuuh rw cqxbn yaxmdlcb xo cqn ojlcxah jwm ojav rw anbynlc cx fqrlq cqnan
qjb knnw nrcqna wx rwlanjbn rw cqn cjaroo xa rw vjwh rwbcjwlnb j enah
lxwbrmnajkun anmdlcrxw.