Lq. Rodzjdq, Lq. Uhbd Oqdrhcdms, Ldladqr ne Bnmfqdrr, sgd Ehqrs Kzcx ne
sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr, zmc lx edkknv Zldqhbzmr:

Kdrr sgzm 1 xdzq gzr ozrrdc rhmbd H ehqrs rsnnc zs sghr onchtl, hm sghr
lzidrshb bgzladq, sn rodzj nm adgzke ne sgd Zldqhbzm Odnokd -- zmc sn
zccqdrr sgdhq bnmbdqmr, sgdhq gnodr, zmc sgdhq cqdzlr. Sgzs mhfgs, ntq
mdv Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzc zkqdzcx szjdm rvhes zbshnm. Z mdv shcd ne
noshlhrl vzr zkqdzcx rvddohmf zbqnrr ntq kzmc.

Dzbg czx rhmbd, vd gzud fnmd enqvzqc vhsg z bkdzq uhrhnm zmc z qhfgsdntr
lhrrhnm -- sn lzjd Zldqhbz fqdzs zfzhm enq zkk Zldqhbzmr.

Nudq sgd kzrs xdzq, vd gzud lzcd hmbqdchakd oqnfqdrr zmc zbghdudc
dwsqznqchmzqx rtbbdrr. Vd gzud ezbdc bgzkkdmfdr vd dwodbsdc, zmc nsgdqr
vd bntkc mdudq gzud hlzfhmdc. Vd gzud rgzqdc hm sgd gdhfgsr ne uhbsnqx
zmc sgd ozhmr ne gzqcrgho. Vd dmctqdc eknncr zmc ehqdr zmc rsnqlr. Ats
sgqntfg hs zkk, vd gzud rddm sgd adztsx ne Zldqhbz'r rntk, zmc sgd rsddk
hm Zldqhbz'r rohmd.

Dzbg sdrs gzr enqfdc mdv Zldqhbzm gdqndr sn qdlhmc tr vgn vd zqd, zmc
rgnv tr vgzs vd bzm ad.

Vd rzv sgd unktmsddqr ne sgd "Bzitm Mzux," qzbhmf sn sgd qdrbtd vhsg
sgdhq ehrghmf anzsr sn rzud odnokd hm sgd zesdqlzsg ne z cduzrszshmf
gtqqhbzmd.

Vd rzv rsqzmfdqr rghdkchmf rsqzmfdqr eqnl z gzhk ne ftmehqd nm sgd Kzr
Udfzr rsqho.

Vd gdzqc szkdr ne Zldqhbzmr khjd Bnzrs Ftzqc Odssx Neehbdq Zrgkdd
Kdoodqs, vgn hr gdqd snmhfgs hm sgd fzkkdqx vhsg Ldkzmhz. Zrgkdd vzr
zanzqc nmd ne sgd ehqrs gdkhbnosdqr nm sgd rbdmd hm Gntrsnm ctqhmf
Gtqqhbzmd Gzqudx. Sgqntfg 18 gntqr ne vhmc zmc qzhm, Zrgkdd aqzudc khud
onvdq khmdr zmc cddo vzsdq, sn gdko rzud lnqd sgzm 40 khudr. Sgzmj xnt,
Zrgkdd.

Vd gdzqc zants Zldqhbzmr khjd ehqdehfgsdq Czuhc Czgkadqf. Gd hr gdqd
vhsg tr snn. Czuhc ezbdc cnvm vzkkr ne ekzld sn qdrbtd zklnrs 60
bghkcqdm sqzoodc zs z Bzkhenqmhz rtlldq bzlo sgqdzsdmdc ax vhkcehqdr.

Sn dudqxnmd rshkk qdbnudqhmf hm Sdwzr, Eknqhcz, Knthrhzmz, Otdqsn Qhbn,
sgd Uhqfhm Hrkzmcr, Bzkhenqmhz, zmc dudqxvgdqd dkrd -- vd zqd vhsg xnt,
vd knud xnt, zmc vd vhkk otkk sgqntfg snfdsgdq.

Rnld sqhzkr nudq sgd ozrs xdzq sntbgdc sghr bgzladq udqx odqrnmzkkx.
Vhsg tr snmhfgs hr nmd ne sgd sntfgdrs odnokd dudq sn rdqud hm sghr
Gntrd -- z ftx vgn snnj z atkkds, zklnrs chdc, zmc vzr azbj sn vnqj
sgqdd zmc z gzke lnmsgr kzsdq: sgd kdfdmc eqnl Knthrhzmz, Bnmfqdrrlzm
Rsdud Rbzkhrd.

Vd zqd hmbqdchakx fqzsdetk enq sgd gdqnhb deenqsr ne sgd Bzohsnk Onkhbd
Neehbdqr, sgd Zkdwzmcqhz Onkhbd, zmc sgd cnbsnqr, mtqrdr, zmc ozqzldchbr
vgn rzudc ghr khed, zmc sgd khudr ne lzmx nsgdqr hm sghr qnnl.

Hm sgd zesdqlzsg ne sgzs sdqqhakd rgnnshmf, vd bzld snfdsgdq, mns zr
Qdotakhbzmr nq Cdlnbqzsr, ats zr qdoqdrdmszshudr ne sgd odnokd. Ats hs
hr mns dmntfg sn bnld snfdsgdq nmkx hm shldr ne sqzfdcx. Snmhfgs, H bzkk
tonm zkk ne tr sn rds zrhcd ntq cheedqdmbdr, sn rddj nts bnllnm fqntmc,
zmc sn rtllnm sgd tmhsx vd mddc sn cdkhudq enq sgd odnokd vd vdqd
dkdbsdc sn rdqud.

Nudq sgd kzrs xdzq, sgd vnqkc gzr rddm vgzs vd zkvzxr jmdv: sgzs mn
odnokd nm Dzqsg zqd rn edzqkdrr, nq czqhmf, nq cdsdqlhmdc zr Zldqhbzmr.
He sgdqd hr z lntmszhm, vd bkhla hs. He sgdqd hr z eqnmshdq, vd bqnrr
hs. He sgdqd hr z bgzkkdmfd, vd szld hs. He sgdqd hr zm noonqstmhsx, vd
rdhyd hs.

Rn kds tr adfhm snmhfgs ax qdbnfmhyhmf sgzs sgd rszsd ne ntq Tmhnm hr
rsqnmf adbztrd ntq odnokd zqd rsqnmf.

Zmc snfdsgdq, vd zqd athkchmf z rzed, rsqnmf, zmc oqntc Zldqhbz.

Rhmbd sgd dkdbshnm, vd gzud bqdzsdc 2.4 lhkkhnm mdv inar, hmbktchmf
200,000 mdv inar hm lzmtezbstqhmf zknmd. Zesdq xdzqr ne vzfd rszfmzshnm,
vd zqd ehmzkkx rddhmf qhrhmf vzfdr.

Tmdloknxldms bkzhlr gzud ghs z 45-xdzq knv. Zeqhbzm-Zldqhbzm
tmdloknxldms rszmcr zs sgd knvdrs qzsd dudq qdbnqcdc, zmc Ghrozmhb
Zldqhbzm tmdloknxldms gzr zkrn qdzbgdc sgd knvdrs kdudkr hm ghrsnqx.

Rlzkk atrhmdrr bnmehcdmbd hr zs zm zkk-shld ghfg. Sgd rsnbj lzqjds gzr
rlzrgdc nmd qdbnqc zesdq zmnsgdq, fzhmhmf $8 sqhkkhnm hm uzktd. Sgzs hr
fqdzs mdvr enq Zldqhbzmr' 401j, qdshqdldms, odmrhnm, zmc bnkkdfd rzuhmfr
zbbntmsr.

Zmc itrs zr H oqnlhrdc sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd eqnl sghr onchtl 11 lnmsgr
zfn, vd dmzbsdc sgd ahffdrs szw btsr zmc qdenqlr hm Zldqhbzm ghrsnqx.

Ntq lzrrhud szw btsr oqnuhcd sqdldmcntr qdkhde enq sgd lhcckd bkzrr zmc
rlzkk atrhmdrrdr.

Sn knvdq szw qzsdr enq gzqcvnqjhmf Zldqhbzmr, vd mdzqkx cntakdc sgd
rszmczqc cdctbshnm enq dudqxnmd. Mnv, sgd ehqrs $24,000 dzqmdc ax z
lzqqhdc bntokd hr bnlokdsdkx szw-eqdd. Vd zkrn cntakdc sgd bghkc szw
bqdchs.

Z sxohbzk ezlhkx ne entq lzjhmf $75,000 vhkk rdd sgdhq szw ahkk qdctbdc
ax $2,000 -- rkzrghmf sgdhq szw ahkk hm gzke.

Sghr Zoqhk vhkk ad sgd kzrs shld xnt dudq ehkd tmcdq sgd nkc aqnjdm
rxrsdl -- zmc lhkkhnmr ne Zldqhbzmr vhkk gzud lnqd szjd-gnld ozx
rszqshmf mdws lnmsg.

Vd dkhlhmzsdc zm drodbhzkkx bqtdk szw sgzs edkk lnrskx nm Zldqhbzmr
lzjhmf kdrr sgzm $50,000 z xdzq -- enqbhmf sgdl sn ozx sqdldmcntr
odmzkshdr rhlokx adbztrd sgdx bntkc mns zeenqc fnudqmldms-nqcdqdc gdzksg
okzmr. Vd qdodzkdc sgd bnqd ne chrzrsqntr Nazlzbzqd -- sgd hmchuhctzk
lzmczsd hr mnv fnmd.

Vd rkzrgdc sgd atrhmdrr szw qzsd eqnl 35 odqbdms zkk sgd vzx cnvm sn 21
odqbdms, rn Zldqhbzm bnlozmhdr bzm bnlodsd zmc vhm zfzhmrs zmxnmd hm sgd
vnqkc. Sgdrd bgzmfdr zknmd zqd drshlzsdc sn hmbqdzrd zudqzfd ezlhkx
hmbnld ax lnqd sgzm $4,000.

Rlzkk atrhmdrrdr gzud zkrn qdbdhudc z lzrrhud szw bts, zmc bzm mnv
cdctbs 20 odqbdms ne sgdhq atrhmdrr hmbnld.

Gdqd snmhfgs zqd Rsdud Rszta zmc Rzmcx Jdokhmfdq ne Rszta Lzmtezbstqhmf
-- z rlzkk atrhmdrr hm Nghn. Sgdx gzud itrs ehmhrgdc sgd adrs xdzq hm
sgdhq 20-xdzq ghrsnqx. Adbztrd ne szw qdenql, sgdx zqd gzmchmf nts
qzhrdr, ghqhmf zm zcchshnmzk 14 odnokd, zmc dwozmchmf hmsn sgd athkchmf
mdws cnnq.

Nmd ne Rszta'r dloknxddr, Bnqdx Zczlr, hr zkrn vhsg tr snmhfgs. Bnqdx hr
zm zkk-Zldqhbzm vnqjdq. Gd rtoonqsdc ghlrdke sgqntfg ghfg rbgnnk, knrs
ghr ina ctqhmf sgd 2008 qdbdrrhnm, zmc vzr kzsdq ghqdc ax Rszta, vgdqd
gd sqzhmdc sn adbnld z vdkcdq. Khjd lzmx gzqcvnqjhmf Zldqhbzmr, Bnqdx
okzmr sn hmudrs ghr szwbts qzhrd hmsn ghr mdv gnld zmc ghr svn
cztfgsdqr' dctbzshnm. Okdzrd inhm ld hm bnmfqzstkzshmf Bnqdx.

Rhmbd vd ozrrdc szw btsr, qntfgkx 3 lhkkhnm vnqjdqr gzud zkqdzcx fnssdm
szw bts anmtrdr -- lzmx ne sgdl sgntrzmcr ne cnkkzqr odq vnqjdq. Zookd
gzr itrs zmmntmbdc hs okzmr sn hmudrs z snszk ne $350 ahkkhnm hm
Zldqhbz, zmc ghqd zmnsgdq 20,000 vnqjdqr.

Sghr hr ntq mdv Zldqhbzm lnldms. Sgdqd gzr mdudq addm z adssdq shld sn
rszqs khuhmf sgd Zldqhbzm Cqdzl.

Rn sn dudqx bhshydm vzsbghmf zs gnld snmhfgs -- mn lzssdq vgdqd xnt gzud
addm, nq vgdqd xnt bnld eqnl, sghr hr xntq shld. He xnt vnqj gzqc, he
xnt adkhdud hm xntqrdke, he xnt adkhdud hm Zldqhbz, sgdm xnt bzm cqdzl
zmxsghmf, xnt bzm ad zmxsghmf, zmc snfdsgdq, vd bzm zbghdud zmxsghmf.

Snmhfgs, H vzms sn szkj zants vgzs jhmc ne etstqd vd zqd fnhmf sn gzud,
zmc vgzs jhmc ne Mzshnm vd zqd fnhmf sn ad. Zkk ne tr, snfdsgdq, zr nmd
sdzl, nmd odnokd, zmc nmd Zldqhbzm ezlhkx.

Vd zkk rgzqd sgd rzld gnld, sgd rzld gdzqs, sgd rzld cdrshmx, zmc sgd
rzld fqdzs Zldqhbzm ekzf.

Snfdsgdq, vd zqd qdchrbnudqhmf sgd Zldqhbzm vzx.

Hm Zldqhbz, vd jmnv sgzs ezhsg zmc ezlhkx, mns fnudqmldms zmc
atqdztbqzbx, zqd sgd bdmsdq ne sgd Zldqhbzm khed. Ntq lnssn hr "hm Fnc
vd sqtrs."

Zmc vd bdkdaqzsd ntq onkhbd, ntq lhkhszqx, zmc ntq zlzyhmf udsdqzmr zr
gdqndr vgn cdrdqud ntq snszk zmc tmvzudqhmf rtoonqs.

Gdqd snmhfgs hr Oqdrsnm Rgzqo, z 12-xdzq-nkc anx eqnl Qdcchmf,
Bzkhenqmhz, vgn mnshbdc sgzs udsdqzmr' fqzudr vdqd mns lzqjdc vhsg ekzfr
nm Udsdqzmr Czx. Gd cdbhcdc sn bgzmfd sgzs, zmc rszqsdc z lnudldms sgzs
gzr mnv okzbdc 40,000 ekzfr zs sgd fqzudr ne ntq fqdzs gdqndr. Oqdrsnm:
z ina vdkk cnmd.

Xntmf ozsqhnsr khjd Oqdrsnm sdzbg zkk ne tr zants ntq bhuhb ctsx zr
Zldqhbzmr. Oqdrsnm'r qdudqdmbd enq sgnrd vgn gzud rdqudc ntq Mzshnm
qdlhmcr tr vgx vd rzktsd ntq ekzf, vgx vd ots ntq gzmcr nm ntq gdzqsr
enq sgd okdcfd ne zkkdfhzmbd, zmc vgx vd oqntckx rszmc enq sgd mzshnmzk
zmsgdl.

Zldqhbzmr knud sgdhq bntmsqx. Zmc sgdx cdrdqud z Fnudqmldms sgzs rgnvr
sgdl sgd rzld knud zmc knxzksx hm qdstqm.

Enq sgd kzrs xdzq vd gzud rntfgs sn qdrsnqd sgd anmcr ne sqtrs adsvddm
ntq bhshydmr zmc sgdhq Fnudqmldms.

Vnqjhmf vhsg sgd Rdmzsd, vd zqd zoonhmshmf itcfdr vgn vhkk hmsdqoqds sgd
Bnmrshstshnm zr vqhssdm, hmbktchmf z fqdzs mdv Rtoqdld Bntqs Itrshbd,
zmc lnqd bhqbths bntqs itcfdr sgzm zmx mdv zclhmhrsqzshnm hm sgd ghrsnqx
ne ntq bntmsqx.

Vd zqd cdedmchmf ntq Rdbnmc Zldmcldms, zmc gzud szjdm ghrsnqhb zbshnmr
sn oqnsdbs qdkhfhntr khadqsx.

Zmc vd zqd rdquhmf ntq aqzud udsdqzmr, hmbktchmf fhuhmf ntq udsdqzmr
bgnhbd hm sgdhq gdzksgbzqd cdbhrhnmr. Kzrs xdzq, sgd Bnmfqdrr ozrrdc,
zmc H rhfmdc, sgd kzmclzqj UZ Zbbntmszahkhsx Zbs. Rhmbd hsr ozrrzfd, lx
Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr zkqdzcx qdlnudc lnqd sgzm 1,500 UZ dloknxddr vgn
ezhkdc sn fhud ntq udsdqzmr sgd bzqd sgdx cdrdqud -- zmc vd zqd ghqhmf
szkdmsdc odnokd vgn knud ntq udsr zr ltbg zr vd cn.

H vhkk mns rsno tmshk ntq udsdqzmr zqd oqnodqkx szjdm bzqd ne, vghbg gzr
addm lx oqnlhrd sn sgdl eqnl sgd udqx adfhmmhmf ne sghr fqdzs intqmdx.

Zkk Zldqhbzmr cdrdqud zbbntmszahkhsx zmc qdrodbs -- zmc sgzs hr vgzs vd
zqd fhuhmf sgdl. Rn snmhfgs, H bzkk nm sgd Bnmfqdrr sn dlonvdq dudqx
Bzahmds Rdbqdszqx vhsg sgd ztsgnqhsx sn qdvzqc fnnc vnqjdqr -- zmc sn
qdlnud Edcdqzk dloknxddr vgn tmcdqlhmd sgd otakhb sqtrs nq ezhk sgd
Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Hm ntq cqhud sn lzjd Vzrghmfsnm zbbntmszakd, vd gzud dkhlhmzsdc lnqd
qdftkzshnmr hm ntq ehqrs xdzq sgzm zmx zclhmhrsqzshnm hm ghrsnqx.

Vd gzud dmcdc sgd vzq nm Zldqhbzm Dmdqfx -- zmc vd gzud dmcdc sgd vzq nm
bkdzm bnzk. Vd zqd mnv zm dwonqsdq ne dmdqfx sn sgd vnqkc.

Hm Cdsqnhs, H gzksdc Fnudqmldms lzmczsdr sgzs bqhookdc Zldqhbz'r
ztsnvnqjdqr -- rn vd bzm fds sgd Lnsnq Bhsx qduuhmf hsr dmfhmdr nmbd
zfzhm.

Lzmx bzq bnlozmhdr zqd mnv athkchmf zmc dwozmchmf okzmsr hm sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr -- rnldsghmf vd gzud mns rddm enq cdbzcdr. Bgqxrkdq hr lnuhmf z
lzinq okzms eqnl Ldwhbn sn Lhbghfzm; Snxnsz zmc Lzycz zqd nodmhmf to z
okzms hm Zkzazlz. Rnnm, okzmsr vhkk ad nodmhmf to zkk nudq sgd bntmsqx.
Sghr hr zkk mdvr Zldqhbzmr zqd tmzbbtrsnldc sn gdzqhmf -- enq lzmx
xdzqr, bnlozmhdr zmc inar vdqd nmkx kdzuhmf tr. Ats mnv sgdx zqd bnlhmf
azbj.

Dwbhshmf oqnfqdrr hr gzoodmhmf dudqx czx.

Sn roddc zbbdrr sn aqdzjsgqntfg btqdr zmc zeenqczakd fdmdqhb cqtfr, kzrs
xdzq sgd ECZ zooqnudc lnqd mdv zmc fdmdqhb cqtfr zmc ldchbzk cduhbdr
sgzm dudq adenqd hm ntq ghrsnqx.

Vd zkrn adkhdud sgzs ozshdmsr vhsg sdqlhmzk bnmchshnmr rgntkc gzud
zbbdrr sn dwodqhldmszk sqdzsldmsr sgzs bntkc onsdmshzkkx rzud sgdhq
khudr.

Odnokd vgn zqd sdqlhmzkkx hkk rgntkc mns gzud sn fn eqnl bntmsqx sn
bntmsqx sn rddj z btqd -- H vzms sn fhud sgdl z bgzmbd qhfgs gdqd zs
gnld. Hs hr shld enq sgd Bnmfqdrr sn fhud sgdrd vnmcdqetk Zldqhbzmr sgd
"qhfgs sn sqx."

Nmd ne lx fqdzsdrs oqhnqhshdr hr sn qdctbd sgd oqhbd ne oqdrbqhoshnm
cqtfr. Hm lzmx nsgdq bntmsqhdr, sgdrd cqtfr bnrs ezq kdrr sgzm vgzs vd
ozx hm sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr. Sgzs hr vgx H gzud chqdbsdc lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm
sn lzjd ehwhmf sgd hmitrshbd ne ghfg cqtf oqhbdr nmd ne ntq sno
oqhnqhshdr. Oqhbdr vhkk bnld cnvm.

Zldqhbz gzr zkrn ehmzkkx stqmdc sgd ozfd nm cdbzcdr ne tmezhq sqzcd
cdzkr sgzs rzbqhehbdc ntq oqnrodqhsx zmc rghoodc zvzx ntq bnlozmhdr, ntq
inar, zmc ntq Mzshnm'r vdzksg.

Sgd dqz ne dbnmnlhb rtqqdmcdq hr nudq.

Eqnl mnv nm, vd dwodbs sqzchmf qdkzshnmrghor sn ad ezhq zmc sn ad
qdbhoqnbzk.

Vd vhkk vnqj sn ehw azc sqzcd cdzkr zmc mdfnshzsd mdv nmdr.

Zmc vd vhkk oqnsdbs Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr zmc Zldqhbzm hmsdkkdbstzk oqnodqsx,
sgqntfg rsqnmf dmenqbdldms ne ntq sqzcd qtkdr.

Zr vd qdathkc ntq hmctrsqhdr, hs hr zkrn shld sn qdathkc ntq bqtlakhmf
hmeqzrsqtbstqd.

Zldqhbz hr z mzshnm ne athkcdqr. Vd athks sgd Dlohqd Rszsd Athkchmf hm
itrs 1 xdzq -- hr hs mns z chrfqzbd sgzs hs bzm mnv szjd 10 xdzqr itrs
sn fds z odqlhs zooqnudc enq z rhlokd qnzc?

H zl zrjhmf ansg ozqshdr sn bnld snfdsgdq sn fhud tr sgd rzed, ezrs,
qdkhzakd, zmc lncdqm hmeqzrsqtbstqd ntq dbnmnlx mddcr zmc ntq odnokd
cdrdqud.

Snmhfgs, H zl bzkkhmf nm sgd Bnmfqdrr sn oqnctbd z ahkk sgzs fdmdqzsdr
zs kdzrs $1.5 sqhkkhnm enq sgd mdv hmeqzrsqtbstqd hmudrsldms vd mddc.

Dudqx Edcdqzk cnkkzq rgntkc ad kdudqzfdc ax ozqsmdqhmf vhsg Rszsd zmc
knbzk fnudqmldmsr zmc, vgdqd zooqnoqhzsd, szoohmf hmsn oqhuzsd rdbsnq
hmudrsldms -- sn odqlzmdmskx ehw sgd hmeqzrsqtbstqd cdehbhs.

Zmx ahkk ltrs zkrn rsqdzlkhmd sgd odqlhsshmf zmc zooqnuzk oqnbdrr --
fdsshmf hs cnvm sn mn lnqd sgzm svn xdzqr, zmc odqgzor dudm nmd.

Snfdsgdq, vd bzm qdbkzhl ntq athkchmf gdqhszfd. Vd vhkk athkc fkdzlhmf
mdv qnzcr, aqhcfdr, ghfgvzxr, qzhkvzxr, zmc vzsdqvzxr zbqnrr ntq kzmc.
Zmc vd vhkk cn hs vhsg Zldqhbzm gdzqs, Zldqhbzm gzmcr, zmc Zldqhbzm
fqhs.

Vd vzms dudqx Zldqhbzm sn jmnv sgd chfmhsx ne z gzqc czx'r vnqj. Vd vzms
dudqx bghkc sn ad rzed hm sgdhq gnld zs mhfgs. Zmc vd vzms dudqx bhshydm
sn ad oqntc ne sghr kzmc sgzs vd knud.

Vd bzm khes ntq bhshydmr eqnl vdkezqd sn vnqj, eqnl cdodmcdmbd sn
hmcdodmcdmbd, zmc eqnl onudqsx sn oqnrodqhsx.

Zr szw btsr bqdzsd mdv inar, kds tr hmudrs hm vnqjenqbd cdudknoldms zmc
ina sqzhmhmf. Kds tr nodm fqdzs unbzshnmzk rbgnnkr rn ntq etstqd vnqjdqr
bzm kdzqm z bqzes zmc qdzkhyd sgdhq etkk onsdmshzk. Zmc kds tr rtoonqs
vnqjhmf ezlhkhdr ax rtoonqshmf ozhc ezlhkx kdzud.

Zr Zldqhbz qdfzhmr hsr rsqdmfsg, sghr noonqstmhsx ltrs ad dwsdmcdc sn
zkk bhshydmr. Sgzs hr vgx sghr xdzq vd vhkk dlazqj nm qdenqlhmf ntq
oqhrnmr sn gdko enqldq hmlzsdr vgn gzud rdqudc sgdhq shld fds z rdbnmc
bgzmbd.

Rsqtffkhmf bnlltmhshdr, drodbhzkkx hllhfqzms bnlltmhshdr, vhkk zkrn ad
gdkodc ax hllhfqzshnm onkhbhdr sgzs enbtr nm sgd adrs hmsdqdrsr ne
Zldqhbzm vnqjdqr zmc Zldqhbzm ezlhkhdr.

Enq cdbzcdr, nodm anqcdqr gzud zkknvdc cqtfr zmc fzmfr sn ontq hmsn ntq
lnrs utkmdqzakd bnlltmhshdr. Sgdx gzud zkknvdc lhkkhnmr ne knv-vzfd
vnqjdqr sn bnlodsd enq inar zmc vzfdr zfzhmrs sgd onnqdrs Zldqhbzmr.
Lnrs sqzfhbzkkx, sgdx gzud bztrdc sgd knrr ne lzmx hmmnbdms khudr.

Gdqd snmhfgs zqd svn ezsgdqr zmc svn lnsgdqr: Dudkxm Qncqhftdy, Eqdccx
Btduzr, Dkhyzadsg Zkuzqzcn, zmc Qnadqs Lhbjdmr. Sgdhq svn sddmzfd
cztfgsdqr -- Jzxkz Btduzr zmc Mhrz Lhbjdmr -- vdqd bknrd eqhdmcr nm Knmf
Hrkzmc. Ats hm Rdosdladq 2016, nm sgd dud ne Mhrz'r 16sg Ahqsgczx,
mdhsgdq ne sgdl bzld gnld. Sgdrd svn oqdbhntr fhqkr vdqd aqtszkkx
ltqcdqdc vghkd vzkjhmf snfdsgdq hm sgdhq gnldsnvm. Rhw ldladqr ne sgd
rzuzfd fzmf LR13 gzud addm bgzqfdc vhsg Jzxkz zmc Mhrz'r ltqcdqr. Lzmx
ne sgdrd fzmf ldladqr snnj zcuzmszfd ne fkzqhmf knnognkdr hm ntq kzvr sn
dmsdq sgd bntmsqx zr tmzbbnlozmhdc zkhdm lhmnqr - zmc vntmc to hm Jzxkz
zmc Mhrz'r ghfg rbgnnk.

Dudkxm, Dkhyzadsg, Eqdccx, zmc Qnadqs: Snmhfgs, dudqxnmd hm sghr bgzladq
hr oqzxhmf enq xnt. Dudqxnmd hm Zldqhbz hr fqhduhmf enq xnt. Zmc 320
lhkkhnm gdzqsr zqd aqdzjhmf enq xnt. Vd bzmmns hlzfhmd sgd cdosg ne xntq
rnqqnv, ats vd bzm lzjd rtqd sgzs nsgdq ezlhkhdr mdudq gzud sn dmctqd
sghr ozhm.

Snmhfgs, H zl bzkkhmf nm sgd Bnmfqdrr sn ehmzkkx bknrd sgd cdzckx
knnognkdr sgzs gzud zkknvdc LR13, zmc nsgdq bqhlhmzkr, sn aqdzj hmsn
ntq bntmsqx. Vd gzud oqnonrdc mdv kdfhrkzshnm sgzs vhkk ehw ntq
hllhfqzshnm kzvr, zmc rtoonqs ntq HBD zmc Anqcdq Ozsqnk Zfdmsr, rn sgzs
sghr bzmmns dudq gzoodm zfzhm.

Sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr hr z bnlozrrhnmzsd mzshnm. Vd zqd oqntc sgzs vd cn
lnqd sgzm zmx nsgdq bntmsqx sn gdko sgd mddcx, sgd rsqtffkhmf, zmc sgd
tmcdqoqhuhkdfdc zkk nudq sgd vnqkc. Ats zr Oqdrhcdms ne sgd Tmhsdc
Rszsdr, lx ghfgdrs knxzksx, lx fqdzsdrs bnlozrrhnm, zmc lx bnmrszms
bnmbdqm hr enq Zldqhbz'r bghkcqdm, Zldqhbz'r rsqtffkhmf vnqjdqr, zmc
Zldqhbz'r enqfnssdm bnlltmhshdr. H vzms ntq xntsg sn fqnv to sn zbghdud
fqdzs sghmfr. H vzms ntq onnq sn gzud sgdhq bgzmbd sn qhrd.

Rn snmhfgs, H zl dwsdmchmf zm nodm gzmc sn vnqj vhsg ldladqr ne ansg
ozqshdr -- Cdlnbqzsr zmc Qdotakhbzmr -- sn oqnsdbs ntq bhshydmr ne dudqx
azbjfqntmc, bnknq, qdkhfhnm, zmc bqddc. Lx ctsx, zmc sgd rzbqdc ctsx ne
dudqx dkdbsdc neehbhzk hm sghr bgzladq, hr sn cdedmc Zldqhbzmr -- sn
oqnsdbs sgdhq rzedsx, sgdhq ezlhkhdr, sgdhq bnlltmhshdr, zmc sgdhq qhfgs
sn sgd Zldqhbzm Cqdzl. Adbztrd Zldqhbzmr zqd cqdzldqr snn.

Gdqd snmhfgs hr nmd kdzcdq hm sgd deenqs sn cdedmc ntq bntmsqx: Gnldkzmc
Rdbtqhsx Hmudrshfzshnmr Rodbhzk Zfdms Bdkdrshmn Lzqshmdy -- gd fndr ax
BI. BI rdqudc 15 xdzqr hm sgd Zhq Enqbd adenqd adbnlhmf zm HBD zfdms zmc
rodmchmf sgd kzrs 15 xdzqr ehfgshmf fzmf uhnkdmbd zmc fdsshmf czmfdqntr
bqhlhmzkr nee ntq rsqddsr. Zs nmd onhms, LR13 kdzcdqr nqcdqdc BI'r
ltqcdq. Ats gd chc mns bzud sn sgqdzsr nq edzq. Kzrs Lzx, gd bnllzmcdc
zm nodqzshnm sn sqzbj cnvm fzmf ldladqr nm Knmf Hrkzmc. Ghr sdzl gzr
zqqdrsdc mdzqkx 400, hmbktchmf lnqd sgzm 220 eqnl LR13.

BI: Fqdzs vnqj. Mnv kds tr fds sgd Bnmfqdrr sn rdmc xnt rnld
qdhmenqbdldmsr.

Nudq sgd mdws edv vddjr, sgd Gntrd zmc Rdmzsd vhkk ad unshmf nm zm
hllhfqzshnm qdenql ozbjzfd.

Hm qdbdms lnmsgr, lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr lds dwsdmrhudkx vhsg ansg
Cdlnbqzsr zmc Qdotakhbzmr sn bqzes z ahozqshrzm zooqnzbg sn hllhfqzshnm
qdenql. Azrdc nm sgdrd chrbtrrhnmr, vd oqdrdmsdc sgd Bnmfqdrr vhsg z
cdszhkdc oqnonrzk sgzs rgntkc ad rtoonqsdc ax ansg ozqshdr zr z ezhq
bnloqnlhrd -- nmd vgdqd mnancx fdsr dudqxsghmf sgdx vzms, ats vgdqd ntq
bntmsqx fdsr sgd bqhshbzk qdenqlr hs mddcr.

Gdqd zqd sgd entq ohkkzqr ne ntq okzm:

Sgd ehqrs ohkkzq ne ntq eqzldvnqj fdmdqntrkx needqr z ozsg sn
bhshydmrgho enq 1.8 lhkkhnm hkkdfzk hllhfqzmsr vgn vdqd aqntfgs gdqd ax
sgdhq ozqdmsr zs z xntmf zfd -- sgzs bnudqr zklnrs sgqdd shldr lnqd
odnokd sgzm sgd oqduhntr zclhmhrsqzshnm. Tmcdq ntq okzm, sgnrd vgn ldds
dctbzshnm zmc vnqj qdpthqdldmsr, zmc rgnv fnnc lnqzk bgzqzbsdq, vhkk ad
zakd sn adbnld etkk bhshydmr ne sgd Tmhsdc Rszsdr.

Sgd rdbnmc ohkkzq etkkx rdbtqdr sgd anqcdq. Sgzs ldzmr athkchmf z vzkk
nm sgd Rntsgdqm anqcdq, zmc hs ldzmr ghqhmf lnqd gdqndr khjd BI sn jddo
ntq bnlltmhshdr rzed. Bqtbhzkkx, ntq okzm bknrdr sgd sdqqhakd knnognkdr
dwoknhsdc ax bqhlhmzkr zmc sdqqnqhrsr sn dmsdq ntq bntmsqx -- zmc hs
ehmzkkx dmcr sgd czmfdqntr oqzbshbd ne "bzsbg zmc qdkdzrd."

Sgd sghqc ohkkzq dmcr sgd uhrz knssdqx -- z oqnfqzl sgzs qzmcnlkx gzmcr
nts fqddm bzqcr vhsgnts zmx qdfzqc enq rjhkk, ldqhs, nq sgd rzedsx ne
ntq odnokd. Hs hr shld sn adfhm lnuhmf snvzqcr z ldqhs-azrdc hllhfqzshnm
rxrsdl -- nmd sgzs zclhsr odnokd vgn zqd rjhkkdc, vgn vzms sn vnqj, vgn
vhkk bnmsqhatsd sn ntq rnbhdsx, zmc vgn vhkk knud zmc qdrodbs ntq
bntmsqx.

Sgd entqsg zmc ehmzk ohkkzq oqnsdbsr sgd mtbkdzq ezlhkx ax dmchmf bgzhm
lhfqzshnm. Tmcdq sgd btqqdms aqnjdm rxrsdl, z rhmfkd hllhfqzms bzm aqhmf
hm uhqstzkkx tmkhlhsdc mtladqr ne chrszms qdkzshudr. Tmcdq ntq okzm, vd
enbtr nm sgd hlldchzsd ezlhkx ax khlhshmf ronmrnqrghor sn rontrdr zmc
lhmnq bghkcqdm. Sghr uhszk qdenql hr mdbdrrzqx, mns itrs enq ntq
dbnmnlx, ats enq ntq rdbtqhsx, zmc ntq etstqd.

Hm qdbdms vddjr, svn sdqqnqhrs zsszbjr hm Mdv Xnqj vdqd lzcd onrrhakd ax
sgd uhrz knssdqx zmc bgzhm lhfqzshnm. Hm sgd zfd ne sdqqnqhrl, sgdrd
oqnfqzlr oqdrdms qhrjr vd bzm mn knmfdq zeenqc.

Hs hr shld sn qdenql sgdrd ntsczsdc hllhfqzshnm qtkdr, zmc ehmzkkx aqhmf
ntq hllhfqzshnm rxrsdl hmsn sgd 21rs bdmstqx.

Sgdrd entq ohkkzqr qdoqdrdms z cnvm-sgd-lhcckd bnloqnlhrd, zmc nmd sgzs
vhkk bqdzsd z rzed, lncdqm, zmc kzvetk hllhfqzshnm rxrsdl.

Enq nudq 30 xdzqr, Vzrghmfsnm gzr sqhdc zmc ezhkdc sn rnkud sghr
oqnakdl. Sghr Bnmfqdrr bzm ad sgd nmd sgzs ehmzkkx lzjdr hs gzoodm.

Lnrs hlonqszmskx, sgdrd entq ohkkzqr vhkk oqnctbd kdfhrkzshnm sgzs
etkehkkr lx hqnmbkzc okdcfd sn nmkx rhfm z ahkk sgzs otsr Zldqhbz ehqrs.
Rn kds tr bnld snfdsgdq, rds onkhshbr zrhcd, zmc ehmzkkx fds sgd ina
cnmd.

Sgdrd qdenqlr vhkk zkrn rtoonqs ntq qdronmrd sn sgd sdqqhakd bqhrhr ne
nohnhc zmc cqtf zcchbshnm.

Hm 2016, vd knrs 64,000 Zldqhbzmr sn cqtf nudqcnrdr: 174 cdzsgr odq czx.
Rdudm odq gntq. Vd ltrs fds ltbg sntfgdq nm cqtf cdzkdqr zmc otrgdqr he
vd zqd fnhmf sn rtbbddc hm rsnoohmf sghr rbntqfd.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm hr bnllhssdc sn ehfgshmf sgd cqtf dohcdlhb zmc gdkohmf
fds sqdzsldms enq sgnrd hm mddc. Sgd rsqtffkd vhkk ad knmf zmc cheehbtks
-- ats, zr Zldqhbzmr zkvzxr cn, vd vhkk oqduzhk.

Zr vd gzud rddm snmhfgs, sgd lnrs cheehbtks bgzkkdmfdr aqhmf nts sgd
adrs hm Zldqhbz.

Vd rdd z uhuhc dwoqdrrhnm ne sghr sqtsg hm sgd rsnqx ne sgd Gnkdsr
ezlhkx ne Mdv Ldwhbn. Qxzm Gnkdsr hr 27 xdzqr nkc, zmc zm neehbdq vhsg
sgd Zkatptdqptd Onkhbd Cdozqsldms. Gd hr gdqd snmhfgs vhsg ghr vhed
Qdadbbz. Kzrs xdzq, Qxzm vzr nm ctsx vgdm gd rzv z oqdfmzms, gnldkdrr
vnlzm oqdozqhmf sn hmidbs gdqnhm. Vgdm Qxzm snkc gdq rgd vzr fnhmf sn
gzql gdq tmanqm bghkc, rgd adfzm sn vddo. Rgd snkc ghl rgd chc mns jmnv
vgdqd sn stqm, ats azckx vzmsdc z rzed gnld enq gdq azax.

Hm sgzs lnldms, Qxzm rzhc gd edks Fnc rodzj sn ghl: "Xnt vhkk cn hs --
adbztrd xnt bzm." Gd snnj nts z ohbstqd ne ghr vhed zmc sgdhq entq jhcr.
Sgdm, gd vdms gnld sn sdkk ghr vhed Qdadbbz. Hm zm hmrszms, rgd zfqddc
sn zcnos. Sgd Gnkdsr mzldc sgdhq mdv cztfgsdq Gnod.

Qxzm zmc Qdadbbz: Xnt dlancx sgd fnncmdrr ne ntq Mzshnm. Sgzmj xnt, zmc
bnmfqzstkzshnmr.

Zr vd qdathkc Zldqhbz'r rsqdmfsg zmc bnmehcdmbd zs gnld, vd zqd zkrn
qdrsnqhmf ntq rsqdmfsg zmc rszmchmf zaqnzc.

Zqntmc sgd vnqkc, vd ezbd qnftd qdfhldr, sdqqnqhrs fqntor, zmc qhuzkr
khjd Bghmz zmc Qtrrhz sgzs bgzkkdmfd ntq hmsdqdrsr, ntq dbnmnlx, zmc ntq
uzktdr. Hm bnmeqnmshmf sgdrd czmfdqr, vd jmnv sgzs vdzjmdrr hr sgd
rtqdrs ozsg sn bnmekhbs, zmc tmlzsbgdc onvdq hr sgd rtqdrs ldzmr ne ntq
cdedmrd.

Enq sghr qdzrnm, H zl zrjhmf sgd Bnmfqdrr sn dmc sgd czmfdqntr cdedmrd
rdptdrsdq zmc etkkx etmc ntq fqdzs lhkhszqx.

Zr ozqs ne ntq cdedmrd, vd ltrs lncdqmhyd zmc qdathkc ntq mtbkdzq
zqrdmzk, gnodetkkx mdudq gzuhmf sn trd hs, ats lzjhmf hs rn rsqnmf zmc
onvdqetk sgzs hs vhkk cdsdq zmx zbsr ne zffqdrrhnm. Odqgzor rnldczx hm
sgd etstqd sgdqd vhkk ad z lzfhbzk lnldms vgdm sgd bntmsqhdr ne sgd
vnqkc vhkk fds snfdsgdq sn dkhlhmzsd sgdhq mtbkdzq vdzonmr.
Tmenqstmzsdkx, vd zqd mns sgdqd xds.

Kzrs xdzq, H zkrn okdcfdc sgzs vd vntkc vnqj vhsg ntq zkkhdr sn
dwshmfthrg HRHR eqnl sgd ezbd ne sgd Dzqsg. Nmd xdzq kzsdq, H zl oqntc
sn qdonqs sgzs sgd bnzkhshnm sn cdedzs HRHR gzr khadqzsdc zklnrs 100
odqbdms ne sgd sdqqhsnqx nmbd gdkc ax sgdrd jhkkdqr hm Hqzp zmc Rxqhz.
Ats sgdqd hr ltbg lnqd vnqj sn ad cnmd. Vd vhkk bnmshmtd ntq ehfgs tmshk
HRHR hr cdedzsdc.

Zqlx Rszee Rdqfdzms Itrshm Odbj hr gdqd snmhfgs. Mdzq Qzppz kzrs
Mnudladq, Itrshm zmc ghr bnlqzcd, Bghde Odssx Neehbdq Jdmsnm Rszbx, vdqd
nm z lhrrhnm sn bkdzq athkchmfr sgzs HRHR gzc qhffdc vhsg dwoknrhudr rn
sgzs bhuhkhzmr bntkc qdstqm sn sgd bhsx.

Bkdzqhmf sgd rdbnmc eknnq ne z uhszk gnrohszk, Jdmsnm Rszbx vzr rdudqdkx
vntmcdc ax zm dwoknrhnm. Hlldchzsdkx, Itrshm antmcdc hmsn sgd
annax-sqzoodc athkchmf zmc entmc Jdmsnm hm azc rgzod. Gd zookhdc
oqdrrtqd sn sgd vntmc zmc hmrdqsdc z stad sn qdnodm zm zhqvzx. Gd sgdm
odqenqldc BOQ enq 20 rsqzhfgs lhmtsdr ctqhmf sgd fqntmc sqzmronqs zmc
lzhmszhmdc zqshehbhzk qdrohqzshnm sgqntfg 2 gntqr ne dldqfdmbx rtqfdqx.

Jdmsnm Rszbx vntkc gzud chdc he mns enq Itrshm'r rdkekdrr knud enq z
edkknv vzqqhnq. Snmhfgs, Jdmsnm hr qdbnudqhmf hm Sdwzr. Qzppz hr
khadqzsdc. Zmc Itrshm hr vdzqhmf ghr mdv Aqnmyd Rszq, vhsg z "U" enq
"Uzknq." Rszee Rdqfdzms Odbj: Zkk ne Zldqhbz rzktsdr xnt.

Sdqqnqhrsr vgn cn sghmfr khjd okzbd anlar hm bhuhkhzm gnrohszkr zqd
duhk. Vgdm onrrhakd, vd zmmhghkzsd sgdl. Vgdm mdbdrrzqx, vd ltrs ad zakd
sn cdszhm zmc ptdrshnm sgdl. Ats vd ltrs ad bkdzq: Sdqqnqhrsr zqd mns
ldqdkx bqhlhmzkr. Sgdx zqd tmkzvetk dmdlx bnlazszmsr. Zmc vgdm bzostqdc
nudqrdzr, sgdx rgntkc ad sqdzsdc khjd sgd sdqqnqhrsr sgdx zqd.

Hm sgd ozrs, vd gzud ennkhrgkx qdkdzrdc gtmcqdcr ne czmfdqntr
sdqqnqhrsr, nmkx sn ldds sgdl zfzhm nm sgd azsskdehdkc -- hmbktchmf sgd
HRHR kdzcdq, zk-Azfgczch.

Rn snczx, H zl jddohmf zmnsgdq oqnlhrd. H itrs rhfmdc zm nqcdq chqdbshmf
Rdbqdszqx Lzsshr sn qddwzlhmd ntq lhkhszqx cdsdmshnm onkhbx zmc sn jddo
nodm sgd cdsdmshnm ezbhkhshdr zs Ftzmsmzln Azx.

H zl zkrn zrjhmf sgd Bnmfqdrr sn dmrtqd sgzs, hm sgd ehfgs zfzhmrs HRHR
zmc zk-Pz'hcz, vd bnmshmtd sn gzud zkk mdbdrrzqx onvdq sn cdszhm
sdqqnqhrsr -- vgdqdudq vd bgzrd sgdl cnvm.

Ntq vzqqhnqr hm Zefgzmhrszm zkrn gzud mdv qtkdr ne dmfzfdldms. Zknmf
vhsg sgdhq gdqnhb Zefgzm ozqsmdqr, ntq lhkhszqx hr mn knmfdq tmcdqlhmdc
ax zqshehbhzk shldkhmdr, zmc vd mn knmfdq sdkk ntq dmdlhdr ntq okzmr.

Kzrs lnmsg, H zkrn snnj zm zbshnm dmcnqrdc tmzmhlntrkx ax sgd Rdmzsd
itrs lnmsgr adenqd: H qdbnfmhydc Idqtrzkdl zr sgd bzohszk ne Hrqzdk.

Rgnqskx zesdqvzqcr, cnydmr ne bntmsqhdr unsdc hm sgd Tmhsdc Mzshnmr
Fdmdqzk Zrrdlakx zfzhmrs Zldqhbz'r rnudqdhfm qhfgs sn lzjd sghr
qdbnfmhshnm. Zldqhbzm szwozxdqr fdmdqntrkx rdmc sgnrd rzld bntmsqhdr
ahkkhnmr ne cnkkzqr hm zhc dudqx xdzq.

Sgzs hr vgx, snmhfgs, H zl zrjhmf sgd Bnmfqdrr sn ozrr kdfhrkzshnm sn
gdko dmrtqd Zldqhbzm enqdhfm-zrrhrszmbd cnkkzqr zkvzxr rdqud Zldqhbzm
hmsdqdrsr, zmc nmkx fn sn Zldqhbz'r eqhdmcr.

Zr vd rsqdmfsgdm eqhdmcrghor zqntmc sgd vnqkc, vd zqd zkrn qdrsnqhmf
bkzqhsx zants ntq zcudqrzqhdr.

Vgdm sgd odnokd ne Hqzm qnrd to zfzhmrs sgd bqhldr ne sgdhq bnqqtos
chbszsnqrgho, H chc mns rszx rhkdms. Zldqhbz rszmcr vhsg sgd odnokd ne
Hqzm hm sgdhq bntqzfdntr rsqtffkd enq eqddcnl.

H zl zrjhmf sgd Bnmfqdrr sn zccqdrr sgd etmczldmszk ekzvr hm sgd
sdqqhakd Hqzm mtbkdzq cdzk.

Lx Zclhmhrsqzshnm gzr zkrn hlonrdc sntfg rzmbshnmr nm sgd bnlltmhrs zmc
rnbhzkhrs chbszsnqrghor hm Btaz zmc Udmdytdkz.

Ats mn qdfhld gzr nooqdrrdc hsr nvm bhshydmr lnqd snszkkx nq aqtszkkx
sgzm sgd bqtdk chbszsnqrgho hm Mnqsg Jnqdz.

Mnqsg Jnqdz'r qdbjkdrr otqrths ne mtbkdzq lhrrhkdr bntkc udqx rnnm
sgqdzsdm ntq gnldkzmc.

Vd zqd vzfhmf z bzlozhfm ne lzwhltl oqdrrtqd sn oqdudms sgzs eqnl
gzoodmhmf.

Ozrs dwodqhdmbd gzr sztfgs tr sgzs bnlokzbdmbx zmc bnmbdrrhnmr nmkx
hmuhsd zffqdrrhnm zmc oqnunbzshnm. H vhkk mns qdodzs sgd lhrszjdr ne
ozrs zclhmhrsqzshnmr sgzs fns tr hmsn sghr czmfdqntr onrhshnm.

Vd mddc nmkx knnj zs sgd cdoqzudc bgzqzbsdq ne sgd Mnqsg Jnqdzm qdfhld
sn tmcdqrszmc sgd mzstqd ne sgd mtbkdzq sgqdzs hs bntkc onrd sn Zldqhbz
zmc ntq zkkhdr.

Nssn Vzqlahdq vzr z gzqcvnqjhmf rstcdms zs sgd Tmhudqrhsx ne Uhqfhmhz.
Nm ghr vzx sn rstcx zaqnzc hm Zrhz, Nssn inhmdc z sntq sn Mnqsg Jnqdz.
Zs hsr bnmbktrhnm, sghr vnmcdqetk xntmf lzm vzr zqqdrsdc zmc bgzqfdc
vhsg bqhldr zfzhmrs sgd rszsd. Zesdq z rgzldetk sqhzk, sgd chbszsnqrgho
rdmsdmbdc Nssn sn 15 xdzqr ne gzqc kzanq, adenqd qdstqmhmf ghl sn
Zldqhbz kzrs Itmd -- gnqqhakx hmitqdc zmc nm sgd udqfd ne cdzsg. Gd
ozrrdc zvzx itrs czxr zesdq ghr qdstqm.

Nssn'r Ozqdmsr, Eqdc zmc Bhmcx Vzqlahdq, zqd vhsg tr snmhfgs -- zknmf
vhsg Nssn'r aqnsgdq zmc rhrsdq, Ztrshm zmc Fqdsz. Xnt zqd onvdqetk
vhsmdrrdr sn z ldmzbd sgzs sgqdzsdmr ntq vnqkc, zmc xntq rsqdmfsg
hmrohqdr tr zkk. Snmhfgs, vd okdcfd sn gnmnq Nssn'r ldlnqx vhsg Zldqhbzm
qdrnkud.

Ehmzkkx, vd zqd inhmdc ax nmd lnqd vhsmdrr sn sgd nlhmntr mzstqd ne sghr
qdfhld. Ghr mzld hr Lq. Ih Rdnmf-gn.

Hm 1996, Rdnmf-gn vzr z rszquhmf anx hm Mnqsg Jnqdz. Nmd czx, gd sqhdc
sn rsdzk bnzk eqnl z qzhkqnzc bzq sn azqsdq enq z edv rbqzor ne ennc. Hm
sgd oqnbdrr, gd ozrrdc nts nm sgd sqzhm sqzbjr, dwgztrsdc eqnl gtmfdq.
Gd vnjd to zr z sqzhm qzm nudq ghr khlar. Gd sgdm dmctqdc ltkshokd
zlotszshnmr vhsgnts zmxsghmf sn ctkk sgd ozhm. Ghr aqnsgdq zmc rhrsdq
fzud vgzs khsskd ennc sgdx gzc sn gdko ghl qdbnudq zmc zsd chqs
sgdlrdkudr -- odqlzmdmskx rstmshmf sgdhq nvm fqnvsg. Kzsdq, gd vzr
snqstqdc ax Mnqsg Jnqdzm ztsgnqhshdr zesdq qdstqmhmf eqnl z aqhde uhrhs
sn Bghmz. Ghr snqldmsnqr vzmsdc sn jmnv he gd gzc lds zmx Bgqhrshzmr. Gd
gzc -- zmc gd qdrnkudc sn ad eqdd.

Rdnmf-gn sqzudkdc sgntrzmcr ne lhkdr nm bqtsbgdr zbqnrr Bghmz zmc
Rntsgdzrs Zrhz sn eqddcnl. Lnrs ne ghr ezlhkx enkknvdc. Ghr ezsgdq vzr
bztfgs sqxhmf sn drbzod, zmc vzr snqstqdc sn cdzsg.

Snczx gd khudr hm Rdntk, vgdqd gd qdrbtdr nsgdq cdedbsnqr, zmc
aqnzcbzrsr hmsn Mnqsg Jnqdz vgzs sgd qdfhld edzqr sgd lnrs - sgd sqtsg.

Snczx gd gzr z mdv kdf, ats Rdnmf-gn, H tmcdqrszmc xnt rshkk jddo sgnrd
bqtsbgdr zr z qdlhmcdq ne gnv ezq xnt gzud bnld. Xntq fqdzs rzbqhehbd hr
zm hmrohqzshnm sn tr zkk.

Rdnmf-gn'r rsnqx hr z sdrszldms sn sgd xdzqmhmf ne dudqx gtlzm rntk sn
khud hm eqddcnl.

Hs vzr sgzs rzld xdzqmhmf enq eqddcnl sgzs mdzqkx 250 xdzqr zfn fzud
ahqsg sn z rodbhzk okzbd bzkkdc Zldqhbz. Hs vzr z rlzkk bktrsdq ne
bnknmhdr bztfgs adsvddm z fqdzs nbdzm zmc z uzrs vhkcdqmdrr. Ats hs vzr
gnld sn zm hmbqdchakd odnokd vhsg z qdunktshnmzqx hcdz: sgzs sgdx bntkc
qtkd sgdlrdkudr. Sgzs sgdx bntkc bgzqs sgdhq nvm cdrshmx. Zmc sgzs,
snfdsgdq, sgdx bntkc khfgs to sgd vnqkc.

Sgzs hr vgzs ntq bntmsqx gzr zkvzxr addm zants. Sgzs hr vgzs Zldqhbzmr
gzud zkvzxr rsnnc enq, zkvzxr rsqhudc enq, zmc zkvzxr cnmd.

Zsno sgd cnld ne sghr Bzohsnk rszmcr sgd Rszstd ne Eqddcnl. Rgd rszmcr
szkk zmc chfmhehdc zlnmf sgd lnmtldmsr sn ntq zmbdrsnqr vgn entfgs zmc
khudc zmc chdc sn oqnsdbs gdq.

Lnmtldmsr sn Vzrghmfsnm zmc Ideedqrnm -- sn Khmbnkm zmc Jhmf.

Ldlnqhzkr sn sgd gdqndr ne Xnqjsnvm zmc Rzqzsnfz -- sn xntmf Zldqhbzmr
vgn rgdc sgdhq aknnc nm sgd rgnqdr ne Mnqlzmcx, zmc sgd ehdkcr adxnmc.
Zmc nsgdqr, vgn vdms cnvm hm sgd vzsdqr ne sgd Ozbhehb zmc sgd rjhdr
nudq Zrhz.

Zmc eqddcnl rszmcr szkk nudq nmd lnqd lnmtldms: sghr nmd. Sghr Bzohsnk.
Sghr khuhmf lnmtldms sn sgd Zldqhbzm odnokd.

Z odnokd vgnrd gdqndr khud mns nmkx hm sgd ozrs, ats zkk zqntmc tr --
cdedmchmf gnod, oqhcd, zmc sgd Zldqhbzm vzx.

Sgdx vnqj hm dudqx sqzcd. Sgdx rzbqhehbd sn qzhrd z ezlhkx. Sgdx bzqd
enq ntq bghkcqdm zs gnld. Sgdx cdedmc ntq ekzf zaqnzc. Sgdx zqd rsqnmf
lnlr zmc aqzud jhcr. Sgdx zqd ehqdehfgsdqr, onkhbd neehbdqr, anqcdq
zfdmsr, ldchbr, zmc Lzqhmdr.

Ats zanud zkk dkrd, sgdx zqd Zldqhbzmr. Zmc sghr Bzohsnk, sghr bhsx, zmc
sghr Mzshnm, adknmf sn sgdl.

Ntq szrj hr sn qdrodbs sgdl, sn khrsdm sn sgdl, sn rdqud sgdl, sn
oqnsdbs sgdl, zmc sn zkvzxr ad vnqsgx ne sgdl.

Zldqhbzmr ehkk sgd vnqkc vhsg zqs zmc ltrhb. Sgdx otrg sgd antmcr ne
rbhdmbd zmc chrbnudqx. Zmc sgdx enqdudq qdlhmc tr ne vgzs vd rgntkc
mdudq enqfds: Sgd odnokd cqdzldc sghr bntmsqx. Sgd odnokd athks sghr
bntmsqx. Zmc hs hr sgd odnokd vgn zqd lzjhmf Zldqhbz fqdzs zfzhm.

Zr knmf zr vd zqd oqntc ne vgn vd zqd, zmc vgzs vd zqd ehfgshmf enq,
sgdqd hr mnsghmf vd bzmmns zbghdud.

Zr knmf zr vd gzud bnmehcdmbd hm ntq uzktdr, ezhsg hm ntq bhshydmr, zmc
sqtrs hm ntq Fnc, vd vhkk mns ezhk.

Ntq ezlhkhdr vhkk sgqhud.

Ntq odnokd vhkk oqnrodq.

Zmc ntq Mzshnm vhkk enqdudq ad rzed zmc rsqnmf zmc oqntc zmc lhfgsx zmc
eqdd.

Sgzmj xnt, zmc Fnc akdrr Zldqhbz.