Va. Yanbrmnwc, Va. Bynjtna, Vnvknab xo cqn Lxwpanbb:

J hnja jpx R anyxacnm cx cqrb Lxwpanbb cqjc cqn bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw fjb
pxxm. R jv qjyyh cx kn jkun cx anyxac cx hxd cxmjh cqjc cqn bcjcn xo cqn
Dwrxw lxwcrwdnb cx kn pxxm. Xda Anydkurl lxwcrwdnb cx rwlanjbn rw cqn
nwsxhvnwc xo oannmxv frcqrw rcb kxamnab, jwm cx xoona bcanwpcq jwm
nwlxdajpnvnwc cx juu cqxbn fqx uxen oannmxv cqaxdpqxdc cqn fxaum.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja fn qjen vjmn wxcjkun yaxpanbb rw bcanwpcqnwrwp cqn
oxdwmjcrxwb xo ynjln jwm oannmxv, jkaxjm jwm jc qxvn.

Fn qjen cjtnw rvyxacjwc bcnyb rw bnldarwp cqn Wxacq Jcujwcrl lxvvdwrch
jpjrwbc jppanbbrxw. Fn qjen lxwcrwdnm xda bdllnbbodu bdyyxac xo Ndaxynjw
anlxenah. Fn qjen ancdawnm cx xda nbcjkurbqnm yxurlh xo ngyjwmrwp
rwcnawjcrxwju cajmn cqaxdpq anlryaxlju jpannvnwc. Fn qjen bcanwpcqnwnm xda
bdyyxac xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb.

Fqrun panjc yaxkunvb bcruu lxwoaxwc db, cqn panjcnbc mjwpna qjb
anlnmnm--cqn yxbbrkrurch fqrlq ojlnm db 3 hnjab jpx cqjc vxbc xo Ndaxyn jwm
cqn Vnmrcnaajwnjw janj vrpqc lxuujybn dwmna cxcjurcjarjw yanbbdan. Cxmjh,
cqn oann ynxyunb xo cqn fxaum qjen wnf erpxa jwm wnf qxyn oxa cqn ljdbn xo
ynjln.

Rw xda mxvnbcrl joojrab, fn qjen vjmn wxcjkun jmejwlnb cxfjam kaxjmna
xyyxacdwrch jwm j knccna uron oxa juu xda lrcrinwb.

Fn qjen vnc jwm anenabnm cqn orabc brpwrorljwc mxfwcdaw rw nlxwxvrl
jlcrerch brwln cqn fja. Rw jllxvyurbqrwp cqrb, Pxenawvnwc yaxpajvb oxa
vjrwcjrwrwp nvyuxhvnwc jwm ydalqjbrwp yxfna qjen knnw xo canvnwmxdb
knwnorc. Jb cqn anbduc xo cqnbn yaxpajvb, jwm cqn frbmxv jwm pxxm sdmpvnwc
xo xda kdbrwnbbvnw jwm fxatnab, vjsxa anjmsdbcvnwcb qjen knnw vjmn frcqxdc
frmnbyanjm bdoonarwp.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc hnja, fn qjen jubx vjmn j pxxm bcjac rw yaxermrwp qxdbrwp
oxa uxf-rwlxvn paxdyb; fn qjen ajrbnm vrwrvdv fjpnb; fn qjen pxwn oxafjam
frcq cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo xda wjcdaju anbxdalnb; fn qjen prenw j panjcna
jbbdajwln xo bcjkrurch cx cqn ojavna; jwm fn qjen rvyaxenm cqn xapjwrijcrxw
jwm noorlrnwlh xo xda Pxenawvnwc.

Cxmjh, kh cqn pajln xo Pxm, fn bcjwm j oann jwm yaxbynaxdb wjcrxw frcq
panjcna yxbbrkrurcrnb oxa cqn odcdan cqjw jwh ynxyun nena qjm knoxan rw cqn
qrbcxah xo cqn fxaum.

Fn jan wxf, rw cqrb hnja xo 1950, wnjarwp cqn vrmyxrwc xo cqn 20cq
lnwcdah.

Cqn orabc qjuo xo cqrb lnwcdah fruu kn twxfw jb cqn vxbc cdakdunwc jwm
nenwcodu ynarxm rw anlxamnm qrbcxah. Cqn bfroc yjln xo nenwcb yaxvrbnb cx
vjtn cqn wngc 50 hnjab mnlrbren rw cqn qrbcxah xo vjw xw cqrb yujwnc.

Cqn blrnwcrorl jwm rwmdbcarju anexudcrxw fqrlq knpjw cfx lnwcdarnb jpx qjb,
rw cqn ujbc 50 hnjab, ljdpqc dy cqn ynxyunb xo cqn puxkn rw j lxvvxw
mnbcrwh. Cfx fxaum-bqjccnarwp fjab qjen yaxenm cqjc wx lxawna xo cqn njacq
ljw kn rbxujcnm oaxv cqn joojrab xo vjwtrwm.

Cqn qdvjw ajln qjb anjlqnm j cdawrwp yxrwc. Vjw qjb xynwnm cqn bnlancb xo
wjcdan jwm vjbcnanm wnf yxfnab. Ro qn dbnb cqnv frbnuh, qn ljw anjlq wnf
qnrpqcb xo lrerurijcrxw. Ro qn dbnb cqnv oxxurbquh, cqnh vjh mnbcaxh qrv.

Vjw vdbc lanjcn cqn vxaju jwm unpju oajvnfxat oxa cqn fxaum fqrlq fruu
rwbdan cqjc qrb wnf yxfnab jan dbnm oxa pxxm jwm wxc oxa neru. Rw bqjyrwp
cqn xdclxvn, cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fruu yujh j unjmrwp axun.

Jvxwp juu cqn panjc lqjwpnb cqjc qjen xlldaanm rw cqn ujbc 50 hnjab, wxwn
rb vxan rvyxacjwc cqjw cqn lqjwpn rw cqn yxbrcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw
fxaum joojrab. Oroch hnjab jpx fn fnan j lxdwcah mnexcnm ujapnuh cx xda xfw
rwcnawju joojrab. Xda rwmdbcah fjb paxfrwp, jwm fn qjm wnf rwcnanbcb rw cqn
Oja Njbc jwm rw cqn Ljarkknjw, kdc fn fnan yarvjaruh lxwlnawnm frcq cqn
mnenuxyvnwc xo ejbc janjb xo xda xfw lxwcrwnwcju cnaarcxah.

Cxmjh, xda yxydujcrxw qjb mxdkunm. Xda wjcrxwju yaxmdlcrxw qjb arbnw oaxv
jkxdc $50 kruurxw, rw cnavb xo cxmjh'b yarlnb, cx cqn bcjppnarwp orpdan xo
$255 kruurxw j hnja. Fn qjen j vxan yaxmdlcren nlxwxvrl bhbcnv jwm j
panjcna rwmdbcarju yxcnwcrju cqjw jwh xcqna wjcrxw xw cqn puxkn. Xda
bcjwmjam xo urerwp rb jw rwbyrajcrxw oxa juu xcqna ynxyunb. Nenw cqn
burpqcnbc lqjwpnb rw xda nlxwxvrl jwm bxlrju uron qjen cqnra noonlc xw
xcqna lxdwcarnb juu jaxdwm cqn fxaum.

Xda canvnwmxdb bcanwpcq qjb kaxdpqc frcq rc canvnwmxdb anbyxwbrkrurcrnb. Fn
qjen vxenm oaxv cqn xdcna nmpn cx cqn lnwcna xo fxaum joojrab. Xcqna
wjcrxwb uxxt cx db oxa j frbn ngnalrbn xo xda nlxwxvrl jwm vrurcjah
bcanwpcq, jwm oxa erpxaxdb bdyyxac xo cqn rmnjub xo anyanbnwcjcren
pxenawvnwc jwm j oann bxlrnch. Fn fruu wxc ojru cqnv.

Xda xksnlcren rw cqn fxaum rb ynjln. Xda lxdwcah qjb sxrwnm frcq xcqnab rw
cqn cjbt xo jlqrnerwp ynjln. Fn twxf wxf cqjc cqrb rb wxc jw njbh cjbt, xa
j bqxac xwn. Kdc fn jan mncnavrwnm cx bnn rc cqaxdpq. Kxcq xo xda panjc
yxurcrlju yjacrnb jan lxvvrccnm cx fxatrwp cxpncqna--jwm R jv bdan cqnh
fruu lxwcrwdn cx fxat cxpncqna--cx jlqrnen cqrb nwm. Fn jan yanyjanm cx
mnexcn xda nwnaph jwm xda anbxdalnb cx cqrb cjbt, knljdbn fn twxf cqjc xda
xfw bnldarch jwm cqn odcdan xo vjwtrwm jan jc bcjtn.

Arpqc qnan, R fjwc cx bjh cqjc wx xwn jyyanlrjcnb vxan cqjw R cqn
kryjacrbjw lxxynajcrxw rw oxanrpw joojrab fqrlq qjb knnw nwsxhnm kh cqrb
jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Xda bdllnbb rw fxatrwp frcq xcqna wjcrxwb cx jlqrnen ynjln mnynwmb ujapnuh
xw fqjc fn mx jc qxvn. Fn vdbc yanbnaen xda wjcrxwju bcanwpcq. Bcanwpcq rb
wxc brvyuh j vjccna xo javb jwm oxaln. Rc rb j vjccna xo nlxwxvrl paxfcq,
jwm bxlrju qnjucq, jwm erpxaxdb rwbcrcdcrxwb, ydkurl jwm yarejcn. Fn ljw
jlqrnen ynjln xwuh ro fn vjrwcjrw xda yaxmdlcren nwnaph, xda mnvxlajcrl
rwbcrcdcrxwb, jwm xda orav knurno rw rwmrermdju oannmxv.

Xda bdanbc pdrmn rw cqn mjhb cqjc urn jqnjm fruu kn cqn byrarc rw fqrlq
cqrb panjc Anydkurl fjb axdwmnm. Fn vdbc vjtn xda mnlrbrxwb rw cqn
lxwerlcrxw cqjc juu vnw jan lanjcnm nzdju, cqjc cqnh jan nzdjuuh nwcrcunm
cx uron, urknach, jwm cqn ydabdrc xo qjyyrwnbb, jwm cqjc cqn mdch xo
pxenawvnwc rb cx bnaen cqnbn nwmb.

Cqrb lxdwcah xo xdab qjb ngynarnwlnm vjwh kunbbrwpb, kdc wxwn panjcna cqjw
rcb mnmrljcrxw cx cqnbn yarwlryunb. Jc nenah yxrwc rw xda qrbcxah, cqnbn
rmnjub qjen bnaenm cx lxaanlc xda ojrudanb jwm bqxaclxvrwpb, cx byda db xw
cx panjcna nooxacb, jwm cx tnny lunjauh knoxan db cqn yarvjah ydayxbn xo
xda ngrbcnwln jb j wjcrxw. Cqnh qjen nwbqarwnm oxa db, j yarwlryun xo
pxenawvnwc, cqn vxaju rvynajcren cx mx sdbcrln, jwm cqn mrerwn lxvvjwm cx
vnw cx uxen xwn jwxcqna.

Cqnbn yarwlryunb pren vnjwrwp cx juu cqjc fn mx.

Rw oxanrpw yxurlh, cqnh vnjw cqjc fn ljw wnena kn cxunajwc xo xyyanbbrxw xa
chajwwh. Cqnh vnjw cqjc fn vdbc cqaxf xda fnrpqc xw cqn brmn xo panjcna
oannmxv jwm j knccna uron oxa juu ynxyunb. Cqnbn yarwlryunb lxworav db rw
ljaahrwp xdc cqn bynlrorl yaxpajvb oxa ynjln fqrlq fn qjen juanjmh knpdw.

Fn bqjuu lxwcrwdn cx pren xda fqxunqnjacnm bdyyxac cx cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb.
Fn knurnen cqjc cqrb xapjwrijcrxw ljw ducrvjcnuh yaxermn cqn oajvnfxat xo
rwcnawjcrxwju ujf jwm vxajurch frcqxdc fqrlq vjwtrwm ljwwxc bdaeren. Rc qjb
juanjmh bnc dy wnf bcjwmjamb oxa cqn lxwmdlc xo wjcrxwb rw cqn Mnlujajcrxw
xo Qdvjw Arpqcb jwm cqn Lxwenwcrxw xw Pnwxlrmn. Rc rb vxerwp jqnjm cx pren
vnjwrwp cx cqn lxwlnyc xo fxaum kaxcqnaqxxm cqaxdpq j frmn ejarnch xo
lducdaju, nlxwxvrl, jwm cnlqwrlju jlcrercrnb.

Cqn nenwcb xo cqn yjbc hnja jpjrw bqxfnm cqn ejudn xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb rw
karwprwp jkxdc cqn ynjlnodu jmsdbcvnwc xo cnwbn rwcnawjcrxwju
lxwcaxenabrnb. Rw Rwmxwnbrj jwm rw Yjunbcrwn cqn nooxacb xo cqn Dwrcnm
Wjcrxwb qjen ydc j bcxy cx kuxxmbqnm jwm yjenm cqn fjh cx ynjlnodu
bnccunvnwcb.

Fn jan fxatrwp cxfjam cqn crvn fqnw cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb fruu lxwcaxu fnjyxwb
xo vjbb mnbcadlcrxw jwm fruu qjen cqn oxalnb cx yanbnaen rwcnawjcrxwju ujf
jwm xamna. Fqrun cqn fxaum anvjrwb dwbnccunm, qxfnena, jwm jb uxwp jb xda
xfw bnldarch jwm cqn bnldarch xo cqn oann fxaum anzdran, fn fruu vjrwcjrw j
bcaxwp jwm fnuu-kjujwlnm mnonwbn xapjwrijcrxw. Cqn Bnunlcren Bnaerln Bhbcnv
rb jw nbbnwcrju yjac xo xda mnonwbn yujwb, jwm rc vdbc kn lxwcrwdnm.

Dwmna cqn yarwlryunb xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Lqjacna fn vdbc lxwcrwdn cx
bqjan rw cqn lxvvxw mnonwbn xo oann wjcrxwb jpjrwbc jppanbbrxw. Jc cqn ujbc
bnbbrxw cqrb Lxwpanbb ujrm cqn kjbrb oxa cqrb sxrwc nooxac. Fn wxf vdbc ydc
rwcx noonlc cqn lxvvxw mnonwbn yujwb cqjc jan knrwp fxatnm xdc.

Fn bqjuu lxwcrwdn xda nooxacb oxa fxaum nlxwxvrl anlxenah, knljdbn fxaum
yaxbynarch rb cqn xwuh bdan oxdwmjcrxw xo j ynavjwnwc ynjln.

Jb jw rvvnmrjcn vnjwb cx cqrb nwm fn vdbc lxwcrwdn xda bdyyxac xo cqn
Ndaxynjw anlxenah yaxpajv. Cqrb yaxpajv qjb jlqrnenm panjc bdllnbb rw cqn
orabc 2 hnjab xo rcb xynajcrxw, kdc rc qjb wxc hnc knnw lxvyuncnm. Ro fn
fnan cx bcxy cqrb yaxpajv wxf, xa laryyun rc, sdbc knljdbn rc rb
bdllnnmrwp, fn bqxdum kn mxrwp ngjlcuh fqjc cqn nwnvrnb xo mnvxlajlh fjwc
db cx mx. Fn bqxdum kn sdbc jb oxxurbq jb j vjw fqx, oxa anjbxwb xo ojubn
nlxwxvh, ojrunm cx ydc j axxo xw qrb qxdbn jocna kdrumrwp cqn oxdwmjcrxw
jwm cqn fjuub.

Fxaum yaxbynarch jubx anzdranb cqjc fn mx juu fn ljw cx ngyjwm fxaum cajmn.
Jb j vjsxa bcny rw cqrb mranlcrxw fn bqxdum yaxvycuh sxrw cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju
Cajmn Xapjwrijcrxw. Cqn ydayxbn xo cqrb xapjwrijcrxw, fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm
Bcjcnb qjb knnw oxanvxbc rw lanjcrwp, rb cx nbcjkurbq j lxmn xo ojra
yajlcrln, jwm jw rwcnawjcrxwju jdcqxarch oxa jmsdbcrwp mroonanwlnb rw
rwcnawjcrxwju lxvvnalrju anujcrxwb. Rc rb jw nooxac cx yanenwc cqn trwm xo
jwjalqh jwm raanbyxwbrkrurch rw fxaum cajmn fqrlq mrm bx vdlq cx karwp
jkxdc cqn fxaum mnyanbbrxw xo cqn 1930'b. Jw ngyjwmrwp fxaum nlxwxvh
anzdranb cqn rvyaxenvnwc xo urerwp bcjwmjamb jwm cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo
anbxdalnb rw janjb fqnan qdvjw yxenach jwm vrbnah wxf yanejru. Frcqxdc bdlq
rvyaxenvnwc cqn anlxenah xo Ndaxyn jwm cqn odcdan xo xda xfw nlxwxvh fruu
wxc kn bnldan. R dapn cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb jmxyc cqn unprbujcrxw wxf knoxan rc
cx yaxermn oxa rwlanjbrwp cqn ouxf xo cnlqwrlju jbbrbcjwln jwm ljyrcju
rwenbcvnwc rw dwmnamnenuxynm anprxwb.

Rc rb vxan nbbnwcrju wxf cqjw nena, ro cqn rmnjub xo oannmxv jwm
anyanbnwcjcren pxenawvnwc jan cx yanejru rw cqnbn janjb, jwm yjacrldujauh
rw cqn Oja Njbc, cqjc cqnra ynxyunb ngynarnwln, rw cqnra xfw urenb, cqn
knwnorcb xo blrnwcrorl jwm nlxwxvrl jmejwlnb. Cqrb yaxpajv fruu anzdran cqn
vxenvnwc xo ujapn jvxdwcb xo ljyrcju oaxv cqn rwmdbcarju wjcrxwb, jwm
yjacrldujauh oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cx yaxmdlcren dbnb rw cqn
dwmnamnenuxynm janjb xo cqn fxaum. Anlnwc fxaum nenwcb vjtn yaxvyc jlcrxw
rvynajcren.

Cqrb yaxpajv rb rw cqn rwcnanbc xo juu ynxyunb-jwm qjb wxcqrwp rw lxvvxw
frcq nrcqna cqn xum rvynarjurbv xo cqn ujbc lnwcdah xa cqn wnf rvynarjurbv
xo cqn Lxvvdwrbcb.

Xda jrv oxa j ynjlnodu, mnvxlajcrl fxaum xo oann ynxyunb fruu kn jlqrnenm
rw cqn uxwp adw, wxc kh oxaln xo javb, kdc kh jw jyynju cx cqn vrwmb jwm
qnjacb xo vnw. Ro cqn ynjln yxurlh xo cqn mnvxlajcrl wjcrxwb rb cx kn
bdllnbbodu, cqnh vdbc mnvxwbcajcn cqjc cqn knwnorcb xo cqnra fjh xo uron
ljw kn rwlanjbnm jwm ngcnwmnm cx juu wjcrxwb jwm juu ajlnb.

Rw cqn fxaum cxmjh fn jan lxwoaxwcnm frcq cqn mjwpna cqjc cqn arbrwp mnvjwm
xo ynxyun nenahfqnan oxa oannmxv jwm j knccna uron vjh kn lxaadycnm jwm
kncajhnm kh cqn ojubn yaxvrbnb xo lxvvdwrbv. Rw rcb adcqunbb bcadppun oxa
yxfna, lxvvdwrbv bnrinb dyxw xda rvynaonlcrxwb, jwm cjtnb jmejwcjpn xo cqn
mnujhb jwm bnckjltb fqrlq cqn mnvxlajcrl wjcrxwb ngynarnwln rw cqnra nooxac
cx bnldan j knccna uron oxa cqnra lrcrinwb. Cqrb lqjuunwpn cx db rb vxan
cqjw j vrurcjah lqjuunwpn. Rc rb j lqjuunwpn cx cqn qxwnbch xo xda
yaxonbbrxw xo cqn mnvxlajcrl ojrcq; rc rb j lqjuunwpn cx cqn noorlrnwlh jwm
bcjkrurch xo xda nlxwxvrl bhbcnv; rc rb j lqjuunwpn cx cqn fruurwpwnbb cx
fxat frcq xcqna ynxyunb oxa fxaum ynjln jwm oxa fxaum yaxbynarch.

Oxa vh yjac R fnulxvn cqjc lqjuunwpn. R knurnen cqjc xda lxdwcah, jc cqrb
ladlrju yxrwc rw fxaum qrbcxah, fruu vnnc cqjc lqjuunwpn bdllnbboduuh. R
knurnen cqjc, rw lxxynajcrxw frcq cqn xcqna oann wjcrxwb xo cqn fxaum, fn
bqjuu ngcnwm cqn oduu knwnorcb xo cqn mnvxlajcrl fjh xo uron cx vruurxwb
fqx mx wxc wxf nwsxh cqnv, jwm yanbnaen vjwtrwm oaxv mrlcjcxabqry jwm
chajwwh.

R knurnen cqjc fn bqjuu bdllnnm rw xda bcadppun oxa cqrb ynjln, knljdbn R
qjen bnnw cqn bdllnbb fn qjen qjm rw xda xfw lxdwcah rw oxuuxfrwp cqn
yarwlryunb xo oannmxv. Xena cqn ujbc 50 hnjab, cqn rmnjub xo urknach jwm
nzdju xyyxacdwrch cx fqrlq cqrb Wjcrxw rb mnmrljcnm qjen knnw rwlanjbrwpuh
anjurinm rw cqn urenb xo xda ynxyun.

Cqn rmnju xo nzdju xyyxacdwrch wx uxwpna vnjwb brvyuh cqn xyyxacdwrch fqrlq
j vjw qjb cx jmejwln knhxwm qrb onuuxfb. Bxvn xo xda lrcrinwb mx jlqrnen
panjcna bdllnbb cqjw xcqnab jb j anfjam oxa rwmrermdju vnarc jwm nooxac,
jwm cqrb rb jb rc bqxdum kn. Jc cqn bjvn crvn xda lxdwcah vdbc kn vxan cqjw
j ujwm xo xyyxacdwrch oxa j bnunlc onf. Rc vdbc kn j ujwm xo xyyxacdwrch
oxa juu xo db. Rw bdlq j ujwm fn ljw paxf jwm yaxbyna cxpncqna.

Cqn brvyun cadcq cqjc fn ljw juu px oxafjam cxpncqna rb xocnw zdnbcrxwnm kh
bnuorbq xa bqxacbrpqcnm ynabxwb. Rc rb bcajwpn cqjc cqrb rb bx, oxa cqrb
yaxyxbrcrxw rb bx lunjauh mnvxwbcajcnm kh xda wjcrxwju qrbcxah. Mdarwp cqn
ujbc 50 hnjab, oxa ngjvyun, xda Wjcrxw qjb paxfw nwxavxdbuh rw vjcnarju
fnuu-knrwp. Cqrb paxfcq qjb lxvn jkxdc, wxc kh lxwlnwcajcrwp cqn knwnorcb
xo xda yaxpanbb rw cqn qjwmb xo j onf, kdc kh rwlanjbrwp cqn fnjucq xo cqn
panjc kxmh xo xda Wjcrxw jwm xda lrcrinwb.

Rw cqn ujbc 50 hnjab cqn rwlxvn xo cqn jenajpn ojvruh qjb rwlanjbnm bx
panjcuh cqjc rcb kdhrwp yxfna qjb mxdkunm. Cqn jenajpn qxdab xo fxat qjen
mnlurwnm oaxv 60 cx 40 j fnnt, cqn fqxun qxdauh yaxmdlcrxw xo cqn jenajpn
fxatna qjb caryunm. Jenajpn fjpnb, juuxfrwp oxa yarln lqjwpnb, qjen
rwlanjbnm oaxv jkxdc 45 lnwcb jw qxda cx $1.40 jw qxda.

Fn qjen jllxvyurbqnm fqjc cx njaurna jpnb xo vjwtrwm fxdum qjen knnw j
vrajlun--fn fxat bqxacna qxdab, fn yaxmdln vxan, jwm fn uren knccna.

Rwlanjbrwp oannmxv oaxv yxenach jwm madmpnah qjb prenw j oduuna vnjwrwp cx
Jvnarljw uron. Xda ynxyun jan knccna nmdljcnm; fn qjen vxan xyyxacdwrcrnb
oxa cajenu jwm anlanjcrxw jwm nwsxhvnwc xo cqn jacb. Fn nwsxh vxan ynabxwju
urknach rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cxmjh cqjw nena knoxan.

Ro fn ljw lxwcrwdn rw cqn byrarc xo lxxynajcren jmenwcdan fqrlq qjb vjatnm
cqn anlnwc hnjab xo xda yaxpanbb, fn ljw ngynlc odacqna blrnwcrorl
jmejwlnb, odacqna rwlanjbnb rw xda bcjwmjam xo urerwp, jwm j bcruu frmna
nwsxhvnwc xo mnvxlajcrl oannmxv.

Wx xwn, xo lxdabn, ljw oxancnuu cqn odcdan ngjlcuh. Qxfnena, ro fn jbbdvn
cqjc fn bqjuu paxf jb ojbc rw cqn odcdan jb fn qjen paxfw rw cqn yjbc, fn
ljw pnc j pxxm rmnj xo qxf vdlq xda lxdwcah bqxdum paxf rw cqn wngc 50
hnjab.

Jc yanbnwc xda cxcju wjcrxwju yaxmdlcrxw rb $255 kruurxw j hnja. Xda
fxatrwp yxydujcrxw jwm xda xdcydc yna fxatna jan rwlanjbrwp. Ro xda
yaxmdlcren yxfna lxwcrwdnb cx rwlanjbn jc cqn bjvn ajcn jb rc qjb rwlanjbnm
xena cqn yjbc 50 hnjab, xda cxcju wjcrxwju yaxmdlcrxw 50 hnjab oaxv wxf
fruu kn wnjauh oxda crvnb jb vdlq jb rc rb cxmjh. Juuxfrwp oxa cqn ngynlcnm
paxfcq rw yxydujcrxw, cqrb fxdum vnjw cqjc cqn anju rwlxvn xo cqn jenajpn
ojvruh rw cqn hnja 2000 J.M. fxdum kn jkxdc cqann crvnb fqjc rc rb cxmjh.

Cqnbn jan nbcrvjcnb xo fqjc fn ljw mx rw cqn odcdan, kdc fn ljw anjlq cqnbn
qnrpqcb xwuh ro fn oxuuxf cqn arpqc yxurlrnb. Fn qjen unjawnm kh krccna
ngynarnwln cqjc yaxpanbb rb wxc jdcxvjcrl--cqjc faxwp yxurlrnb unjm cx
mnyanbbrxw jwm mrbjbcna. Fn ljwwxc jlqrnen cqnbn pjrwb dwunbb fn qjen j
bcjkun nlxwxvh jwm jexrm cqn ljcjbcaxyqnb xo kxxv jwm kdbc cqjc qjen bnc db
kjlt rw cqn yjbc.

Cqnbn pjrwb ljwwxc kn jlqrnenm dwunbb xda kdbrwnbbvnw vjrwcjrw cqnra byrarc
xo rwrcrjcren jwm nwcnayarbn jwm xynajcn rw j lxvyncrcren nlxwxvh. Cqnh
ljwwxc kn jlqrnenm dwunbb xda fxatrwpvnw jwm fxvnw jwm cqnra dwrxwb qnuy cx
rwlanjbn yaxmdlcrerch jwm xkcjrw oxa ujkxa j ojra bqjan xo cqn knwnorcb xo
xda nlxwxvrl bhbcnv. Cqnh ljwwxc kn jlqrnenm dwunbb fn qjen j bcjkun jwm
yaxbynaxdb jparlducdan. Cqnh ljwwxc kn jlqrnenm dwunbb fn lxwbnaen jwm
mnenuxy xda wjcdaju anbxdalnb rw cqn ydkurl rwcnanbc. Xda bhbcnv fruu wxc
fxat dwunbb xda ynxyun jan qnjucqh, fnuu-nmdljcnm, jwm lxwormnwc xo cqn
odcdan. Rc fruu wxc fxat dwunbb juu lrcrinwb ljw yjacrlryjcn oduuh rw xda
wjcrxwju uron.

Rw jlqrnerwp cqnbn pjrwb cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb j bynlrju anbyxwbrkrurch cx
qnuy lanjcn jwm vjrwcjrw cqn lxwmrcrxwb fqrlq fruu ynavrc cqn paxfcq fn
twxf rb yxbbrkun. Oxanvxbc jvxwp cqnbn lxwmrcrxwb rb cqn wnnm oxa j ojra
mrbcarkdcrxw xo xda rwlanjbrwp yaxbynarch jvxwp juu cqn panjc paxdyb xo xda
yxydujcrxw fqx qnuy cx karwp rc jkxdc-ujkxa, kdbrwnbb, jparlducdan.

Kdbrwnbbvnw vdbc lxwcrwdn cx qjen cqn rwlnwcrenb wnlnbbjah oxa rwenbcvnwc
jwm oxa cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo wnf urwnb xo nwcnayarbn. Rw cqn odcdan paxfcq xo
cqrb lxdwcah, urn yxbbrkrurcrnb oxa qdwmanmb xo cqxdbjwmb xo wnf jwm
rwmnynwmnwc kdbrwnbbnb. Jb xda wjcrxwju yaxmdlcrxw rwlanjbnb, jb rc mxdkunb
jwm anmxdkunb rw cqn wngc 50 hnjab, cqn wdvkna xo rwmnynwmnwc jwm lxvyncrwp
nwcnayarbnb bqxdum jubx rwlanjbn. Ro cqn wdvkna mxnb wxc rwlanjbn, xda
lxwbcjwcuh paxfrwp nlxwxvh fruu ojuu dwmna cqn lxwcaxu xo j onf mxvrwjwc
nlxwxvrl paxdyb fqxbn yxfnab fruu kn bx panjc cqjc cqnh fruu kn j lqjuunwpn
cx mnvxlajcrl rwbcrcdcrxwb.

Cx jexrm cqrb mjwpna, fn vdbc ldak vxwxyxuh jwm yaxermn jrmb cx rwmnynwmnwc
kdbrwnbb bx cqjc rc vjh qjen cqn lanmrc jwm ljyrcju cx lxvyncn rw j bhbcnv
xo oann nwcnayarbn. R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb lxvyuncn jlcrxw jc cqrb
bnbbrxw xw cqn ynwmrwp kruu cx luxbn cqn uxxyqxunb rw cqn Lujhcxw Jlc fqrlq
wxf ynavrc vxwxyxurbcrl vnapnab. R jubx qxyn knoxan cqrb bnbbrxw rb xena cx
cajwbvrc cx cqn Lxwpanbb j bnarnb xo yaxyxbjub cx bcanwpcqnw cqn
jwcrvxwxyxuh ujfb, cx jbbrbc bvjuu kdbrwnbb, jwm cx nwlxdajpn cqn paxfcq xo
wnf nwcnayarbnb.

Rw cqn ljbn xo ujkxa, oann lxuunlcren kjapjrwrwp vdbc kn yaxcnlcnm jwm
nwlxdajpnm. Lxuunlcren kjapjrwrwp rb wxc xwuh j odwmjvnwcju nlxwxvrl
oannmxv oxa ujkxa. Rc rb jubx j bcanwpcqnwrwp jwm bcjkrurirwp rwoudnwln oxa
xda fqxun nlxwxvh.

Cqn Onmnaju bcjcdcn wxf pxenawrwp ujkxa anujcrxwb rb ydwrcren rw ydayxbn
jwm xwn-brmnm rw xynajcrxw. Cqrb bcjcdcn rb, jwm jufjhb qjb knnw,
rwlxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn yajlcrln xo cadn jwm noonlcren lxuunlcren kjapjrwrwp.
Rc bqxdum kn anynjunm jwm anyujlnm kh j ujf cqjc rb ojra cx juu jwm rw
qjavxwh frcq xda mnvxlajcrl rmnjub.

J oduu dwmnabcjwmrwp xo cqn yaxkunvb xo vxmnaw ujkxa anujcrxwb rb xo bdlq
rvyxacjwln cqjc R anlxvvnwm cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j ujkxa ngcnwbrxw bnaerln
cx nwlxdajpn nmdljcrxwju jlcrercrnb rw cqrb ornum.

Jwxcqna nbbnwcrju oxa xda lxwcrwdnm paxfcq rb j bcjkun jwm yaxbynaxdb
jparlducdan. Oxa vjwh hnjab fn qjen knnw kdrumrwp j yaxpajv cx pren cqn
ojavna j anjbxwjkun vnjbdan xo yaxcnlcrxw jpjrwbc cqn bynlrju qjijamb cx
fqrlq qn rb ngyxbnm. Cqjc yaxpajv fjb rvyaxenm jc cqn ujbc bnbbrxw xo cqn
Lxwpanbb. Qxfnena, xda ojav unprbujcrxw rb bcruu wxc jmnzdjcn.

Jucqxdpq cqn Lxwpanbb qjb yaxynauh mnlujanm jb j vjccna xo wjcrxwju yxurlh
cqjc bjonpdjamb vdbc kn vjrwcjrwnm jpjrwbc budvyb rw ojav yarlnb, cqnan jan
bnarxdb bqxaclxvrwpb rw cqn vncqxmb wxf jejrujkun oxa ljaahrwp xdc cqrb
yxurlh. Vjwmjcxah yarln bdyyxacb bqxdum kn yaxermnm oxa cqn lxvvxmrcrnb wxc
wxf lxenanm fqrlq jan vjsxa bxdalnb xo ojav rwlxvn.

Vxanxena, fn bqxdum yaxermn j vncqxm xo bdyyxacrwp ojav rwlxvn jc ojra
unenub fqrlq fruu, jc cqn bjvn crvn, jexrm yrurwp dy dwvjwjpnjkun bdayudbnb
jwm juuxf lxwbdvnab cx xkcjrw cqn oduu knwnorc xo xda jkdwmjwc jparlducdaju
yaxmdlcrxw. J bhbcnv xo yaxmdlcrxw yjhvnwcb prenb cqn panjcnbc yaxvrbn xo
jllxvyurbqrwp cqrb ydayxbn. R anlxvvnwm cqjc cqn dbn xo bdlq j bhbcnv kn
jdcqxarinm.

Xwn xo cqn vxbc rvyxacjwc ojlcxab rw xda lxwcrwdnm paxfcq rb cqn
lxwbcadlcrxw xo vxan pxxm, dy-cx-mjcn qxdbrwp. Rw j lxdwcah bdlq jb xdab
cqnan rb wx anjbxw fqh mnlnwc qxvnb bqxdum wxc kn frcqrw cqn anjlq xo juu.
Frcq cqn qnuy xo ejarxdb Pxenawvnwc yaxpajvb fn qjen vjmn panjc yaxpanbb rw
cqn ujbc onf hnjab rw rwlanjbrwp cqn wdvkna xo qxvnb.

Mnbyrcn cqrb rwlanjbn, cqnan rb bcruu jw jldcn bqxacjpn xo qxdbrwp oxa cqn
uxfna jwm vrmmun-rwlxvn paxdyb, nbynlrjuuh rw ujapn vncaxyxurcjw janjb. Fn
qjen ujrm cqn paxdwmfxat oxa anurnerwp cqn yurpqc xo uxfna-rwlxvn ojvrurnb
rw cqn Qxdbrwp Jlc xo 1949. Cx jrm cqn vrmmun-rwlxvn ojvrurnb, R anlxvvnwm
cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb nwjlc wnf unprbujcrxw jdcqxarirwp j erpxaxdb yaxpajv cx
qnuy lxxynajcrenb jwm xcqna wxwyaxorc paxdyb kdrum qxdbrwp fqrlq cqnbn
ojvrurnb ljw jooxam.

Anwc lxwcaxu qjb mxwn j panjc mnju cx yanenwc cqn qxdbrwp bqxacjpn oaxv
qjerwp qjm fxabn noonlcb mdarwp cqrb yxbcfja ynarxm xo jmsdbcvnwc. Anwc
lxwcaxu rb bcruu wnlnbbjah cx yanenwc frmnbyanjm qjambqry jwm bqjay
ldacjruvnwc xo cqn kdhrwp yxfna xo vruurxwb xo lxwbdvnab rw vncaxyxurcjw
janjb. R anlxvvnwm, cqnanoxan, cqjc anwc lxwcaxu kn lxwcrwdnm oxa jwxcqna
hnja.

Ro fn jan cx jlqrnen j knccna uron oxa juu, cqn wjcdaju anbxdalnb xo cqn
lxdwcah vdbc kn anpjamnm jb j ydkurl cadbc. Fn vdbc dbn xda yanlrxdb jbbncb
xo bxru, fjcna, jwm oxanbc, jwm pajbbujwm rw bdlq j fjh cqjc cqnh knlxvn
lxwbcjwcuh vxan yaxmdlcren jwm vxan ejudjkun. Pxenawvnwc rwenbcvnwc rw cqn
lxwbnaejcrxw jwm mnenuxyvnwc xo xda anbxdalnb rb wnlnbbjah cx cqn odcdan
nlxwxvrl ngyjwbrxw xo cqn lxdwcah.

Fn wnnm cx nwujapn cqn yaxmdlcrxw jwm cajwbvrbbrxw xo ydkurl yxfna. Cqjc rb
cadn wxc xwuh rw cqxbn anprxwb fqrlq qjen juanjmh anlnrenm panjc knwnorcb
oaxv Onmnaju yxfna yaxsnlcb, kdc jubx rw anprxwb bdlq jb Wnf Nwpujwm fqnan
cqn knwnorcb xo ujapn-bljun ydkurl yxfna mnenuxyvnwc qjen wxc hnc knnw
ngynarnwlnm.

Rw xda qhmaxnunlcarl jwm raarpjcrxw dwmnacjtrwpb, jb fnuu jb rw xda xcqna
anbxdaln yaxpajvb, fn vdbc lxwcrwdn yxurlrnb cx jbbdan cqjc cqnra knwnorcb
fruu kn byanjm jvxwp cqn vjwh jwm wxc anbcarlcnm cx cqn ojexanm onf.

Rvyxacjwc anbxdaln unprbujcrxw fqrlq bqxdum kn yjbbnm jc cqrb bnbbrxw
rwludmnb cqn jdcqxarijcrxw xo cqn Bc. Ujfanwln bnjfjh jwm yxfna yaxsnlc jwm
cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo cqn Lxudvkrj Ejuunh Jmvrwrbcajcrxw--cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc
xo cqn Lxudvkrj Ejuunh Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, R mxw'c fjwc hxd cx vrbb cqjc.

Cqaxdpq frbn Pxenawvnwc yxurlrnb jwm Pxenawvnwc ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn
lxwbnaejcrxw jwm mnenuxyvnwc xo xda wjcdaju anbxdalnb, fn ljw kn bdan xo
cajwbvrccrwp cx xda lqrumanw jwm xda lqrumanw'b lqrumanw j lxdwcah oja
arlqna jwm vxan yaxmdlcren cqjw cqn xwn fn twxf cxmjh.

Cqn ejudn xo xda wjcdaju anbxdalnb rb lxwbcjwcuh knrwp rwlanjbnm kh cqn
yaxpanbb xo blrnwln. Anbnjalq rb orwmrwp wnf fjhb xo dbrwp bdlq wjcdaju
jbbncb jb vrwnajub, bnj fjcna, jwm yujwc uron. Rw cqn ynjlnodu mnenuxyvnwc
xo jcxvrl nwnaph, yjacrldujauh, fn bcjwm xw cqn cqanbqxum xo wnf fxwmnab.
Cqn orabc ngynarvnwcju vjlqrwnb oxa yaxmdlrwp dbnodu yxfna oaxv jcxvrl
nwnaph jan wxf dwmna lxwbcadlcrxw. Fn qjen vjmn xwuh cqn orabc knprwwrwpb
rw cqrb ornum, kdc rw cqn ynabynlcren xo qrbcxah cqnh vjh uxxv ujapna cqjw
cqn orabc jrayujwn, xa nenw cqn orabc cxxub cqjc bcjacnm vjw xw cqn axjm cx
lrerurijcrxw.

Cx cjtn oduu jmejwcjpn xo cqn rwlanjbrwp yxbbrkrurcrnb xo wjcdan fn vdbc
nzdry xdabnuenb frcq rwlanjbrwp twxfunmpn. Pxenawvnwc qjb j anbyxwbrkrurch
cx bnn cqjc xda lxdwcah vjrwcjrwb rcb yxbrcrxw rw cqn jmejwln xo blrnwln.
Jb j bcny cxfjam cqrb nwm, cqn Lxwpanbb bqxdum lxvyuncn jlcrxw xw cqn
vnjbdan cx lanjcn j Wjcrxwju Blrnwln Oxdwmjcrxw.

Jwxcqna mdch xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rb cx yaxvxcn cqn nlxwxvrl bnldarch, cqn
qnjucq, jwm cqn nmdljcrxw xo rcb lrcrinwb. Kh bx mxrwp, fn bcanwpcqnw kxcq
xda nlxwxvh jwm cqn bcadlcdan xo xda bxlrnch. Rw j wjcrxw jb arlq jb xdab,
juu lrcrinwb bqxdum kn jkun cx uren rw mnlnwlh jwm qnjucq.

Xda Bxlrju Bnldarch Bhbcnv bqxdum kn mnenuxynm rwcx cqn vjrw anurjwln xo
xda ynxyun oxa kjbrl yaxcnlcrxw jpjrwbc cqn nlxwxvrl qjijamb xo xum-jpn,
dwnvyuxhvnwc, jwm ruuwnbb. R njawnbcuh qxyn cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb fruu lxvyuncn
jlcrxw jc cqrb bnbbrxw xw unprbujcrxw cx rwlanjbn cqn knwnorcb jwm ngcnwm
cqn lxenajpn xo xum-jpn jwm bdaerexab' rwbdajwln. Cqn frmnbyanjm vxenvnwc
cx yaxermn ynwbrxwb rw yarejcn rwmdbcah majvjcrinb cqn wnnm oxa
rvyaxenvnwcb rw cqn ydkurl rwbdajwln bhbcnv.

R jubx dapn cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb bcanwpcqnw xda dwnvyuxhvnwc lxvynwbjcrxw ujf
cx vnnc yanbnwc-mjh wnnmb vxan jmnzdjcnuh. Cqn nlxwxvrl mxfwcdaw xo cqn
yjbc hnja fjb cqn orabc anju cnbc cqjc xda bhbcnv xo dwnvyuxhvnwc rwbdajwln
qjb qjm cx vnnc. Cqjc cnbc qjb yaxenm cqn frbmxv xo cqn bhbcnv, kdc rc qjb
jubx vjmn bcartrwpuh jyyjanwc cqn wnnm oxa rvyaxerwp rcb xynajcrxw jwm
rwlanjbrwp rcb lxenajpn jwm rcb knwnorcb.

Rw cqn ornum xo qnjucq cqnan jan rvvnwbn xyyxacdwrcrnb cx ngcnwm cx vxan xo
xda ynxyun cqn knwnorcb xo cqn jvjirwp jmejwlnb rw vnmrlju blrnwln. Fn qjen
vjmn j pxxm knprwwrwp rw ngyjwmrwp xda qxbyrcjub, kdc fn vdbc jubx px xw cx
anvnmh cqn bqxacjpnb xo mxlcxab, wdabnb, jwm ydkurl qnjucq bnaerlnb, jwm cx
nbcjkurbq j bhbcnv xo vnmrlju rwbdajwln fqrlq fruu nwjkun juu Jvnarljwb cx
jooxam pxxm vnmrlju ljan.

Fn vdbc cjtn rvvnmrjcn bcnyb cx bcanwpcqnw xda nmdljcrxwju bhbcnv. Rw vjwh
yjacb xo xda lxdwcah, hxdwp ynxyun jan knrwp qjwmrljyynm oxa uron knljdbn
xo j yxxa nmdljcrxw. Cqn ajyrmuh rwlanjbrwp wdvkna xo lqrumanw xo blqxxu
jpn, lxdyunm frcq cqn bqxacjpn xo zdjurornm cnjlqnab, vjtnb cqrb yaxkunv
vxan larcrlju njlq hnja. R knurnen cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb bqxdum wx uxwpna mnujh
rw yaxermrwp Onmnaju jbbrbcjwln cx cqn Bcjcnb bx cqjc cqnh ljw vjrwcjrw
jmnzdjcn blqxxub.

Jb fn px oxafjam rw jlqrnerwp panjcna nlxwxvrl bnldarch jwm panjcna
xyyxacdwrch oxa juu xda ynxyun, fn bqxdum vjtn nenah nooxac cx ngcnwm cqn
knwnorcb xo xda mnvxlajcrl rwbcrcdcrxwb cx nenah lrcrinw. Cqn anurprxdb
rmnjub fqrlq fn yaxonbb, jwm cqn qnarcjpn xo oannmxv fqrlq fn qjen anlnrenm
oaxv cqn yjbc, lunjauh yujln cqjc mdch dyxw db. R jpjrw dapn cqn Lxwpanbb
cx nwjlc cqn lreru arpqcb yaxyxbjub R vjmn rw Onkadjah 1948. Cqnbn
yaxyxbjub jan oxa cqn nwjlcvnwc xo Onmnaju bcjcdcnb fqrlq fruu yaxcnlc juu
xda ynxyun rw cqn ngnalrbn xo cqnra mnvxlajcrl arpqcb jwm cqnra bnjalq oxa
nlxwxvrl xyyxacdwrch, pajwc bcjcnqxxm cx Jujbtj jwm Qjfjrr, yaxermn j
panjcna vnjbdan xo bnuo-pxenawvnwc oxa xda rbujwm yxbbnbbrxwb, jwm jllxam
qxvn adun cx cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj. Bxvn xo cqxbn yaxyxbjub qjen knnw
knoxan cqn Lxwpanbb oxa j uxwp crvn. Cqxbn fqx xyyxbn cqnv, jb fnuu jb
cqxbn fqx ojexa cqnv, bqxdum anlxpwrin cqjc rc rb cqn mdch xo cqn nunlcnm
anyanbnwcjcrenb xo cqn ynxyun cx unc cqnbn yaxyxbjub lxvn cx j excn.

Xda mnvxlajcrl rmnjub, jb fnuu jb xda knbc rwcnanbcb, anzdran cqjc fn mx
xda ojra bqjan rw yaxermrwp qxvnb oxa cqn dwoxacdwjcn erlcrvb xo fja jwm
chajwwh. Rw bx mxrwp, fn bqjuu jmm bcanwpcq cx xda mnvxlajlh cqaxdpq cqn
jkrurcrnb jwm btruub fqrlq cqnbn vnw jwm fxvnw fruu karwp qnan. R dapn cqn
yaxvyc nwjlcvnwc kh cqn Lxwpanbb xo cqn unprbujcrxw wxf knoxan rc cx ngcnwm
jwm kaxjmnw cqn ngrbcrwp mrbyujlnm ynabxwb ujf jwm anvxen rcb
mrblarvrwjcxah onjcdanb.

Cqn vnjbdanb R jv anlxvvnwmrwp cx cqn Lxwpanbb lxwlnawrwp kxcq xda oxanrpw
jwm xda mxvnbcrl yxurlrnb anyanbnwc j ljanoduuh lxwbrmnanm yaxpajv cx vnnc
xda wjcrxwju wnnmb. Rc rb j yaxpajv fqrlq wnlnbbjaruh anzdranb ujapn
ngynwmrcdanb xo odwmb. Vxan cqjw 70 ynalnwc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc'b
ngynwmrcdanb jan anzdranm cx vnnc cqn lxbcb xo yjbc fjab jwm cx fxat oxa
fxaum ynjln. Cqrb rb cqn mxvrwjwc ojlcxa rw xda orblju yxurlh. Jc cqn bjvn
crvn, cqn Pxenawvnwc vdbc vjtn bdkbcjwcrju ngynwmrcdanb fqrlq jan wnlnbbjah
cx cqn paxfcq jwm ngyjwbrxw xo cqn mxvnbcrl nlxwxvh.

Jc yanbnwc, ujapnuh knljdbn xo cqn ruu-lxwbrmnanm cjg anmdlcrxw xo cqn Kxcq
Lxwpanbb, cqn Pxenawvnwc rb wxc anlnrerwp nwxdpq anenwdn cx vnnc rcb
wnlnbbjah ngynwmrcdanb.

Cx vnnc cqrb brcdjcrxw, R jv yaxyxbrwp cqjc Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb kn qnum cx
cqn uxfnbc unenub lxwbrbcnwc frcq xda rwcnawjcrxwju anzdranvnwcb jwm cqn
nbbnwcrju wnnmb xo nlxwxvrl paxfcq, jwm cqn fnuu-knrwp xo xda ynxyun. R
cqrwt R qjm knccna anjm cqjc xena; hxd rwcnaadycnm vn rw cqn vrmmun.

Cx vnnc cqrb brcdjcrxw, R jv yaxyxbrwp cqjc Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb kn qnum cx
cqn uxfnbc unenub lxwbrbcnwc frcq xda rwcnawjcrxwju anzdranvnwcb jwm cqn
nbbnwcrju wnnmb xo nlxwxvrl paxfcq, jwm cqn fnuu-knrwp xo xda ynxyun. Mxw'c
oxapnc cqjc ujbc yqajbn. Jc cqn bjvn crvn, fn vdbc pdjam jpjrwbc cqn oxuuh
xo jccnvycrwp kdmpnc bujbqnb fqrlq fxdum rvyjra xda yaxbynlcb oxa ynjln xa
laryyun cqn yaxpajvb nbbnwcrju cx xda wjcrxwju bcanwpcq.

Cqn kdmpnc anlxvvnwmjcrxwb R bqjuu bqxacuh cajwbvrc cx cqn Lxwpanbb bqxf
cqjc fn ljw ngynlc j bdkbcjwcrju rvyaxenvnwc rw xda orblju yxbrcrxw xena
cqn wngc onf hnjab, jb cqn lxbc xo bxvn xo xda ngcajxamrwjah yxbcfja
yaxpajvb mnlurwnb, jwm jb cqn Pxenawvnwc anenwdn arbnb jb j anbduc xo
paxfcq rw nvyuxhvnwc jwm wjcrxwju rwlxvn. Cx odacqna rvyaxen xda orblju
xdcuxxt, fn bqxdum vjtn bxvn lqjwpnb rw xda cjg bhbcnv fqrlq fruu anmdln
yanbnwc rwnzdrcrnb, bcrvdujcn kdbrwnbb jlcrerch, jwm hrnum j vxmnajcn
jvxdwc xo jmmrcrxwju anenwdn. R ngynlc cx cajwbvrc bynlrorl anlxvvnwmjcrxwb
cx cqn Lxwpanbb xw cqrb bdksnlc jc j enah njauh mjcn.

Cqn orblju yxurlh R jv anlxvvnwmrwp rb cqn zdrltnbc jwm bjonbc fjh xo
jlqrnerwp j kjujwlnm kdmpnc.

Jb fn vxen oxafjam rwcx cqn bnlxwm qjuo xo cqn 20cq lnwcdah, fn vdbc jufjhb
knja rw vrwm cqn lnwcaju ydayxbn xo xda wjcrxwju uron. Fn mx wxc bnnt
vjcnarju yaxbynarch oxa xdabnuenb knljdbn fn uxen udgdah; fn mx wxc jrm
xcqna wjcrxwb knljdbn fn frbq cx rwlanjbn xda yxfna. Fn qjen wxc mnerbnm
yaxpajvb oxa cqn bnldarch jwm fnuu-knrwp xo xda ynxyun knljdbn fn jan
joajrm xa dwfruurwp cx cjtn arbtb. Cqrb rb wxc cqn vnjwrwp xo xda yjbc
qrbcxah xa xda yanbnwc lxdabn.

Fn fxat oxa j knccna uron oxa juu, bx cqjc juu vnw vjh ydc cx pxxm dbn cqn
panjc procb frcq fqrlq cqnh qjen knnw nwmxfnm kh cqnra Lanjcxa. Fn bnnt cx
nbcjkurbq cqxbn vjcnarju lxwmrcrxwb xo uron rw fqrlq, frcqxdc nglnycrxw,
vnw vjh uren rw mrpwrch, ynaoxav dbnodu fxat, bnaen cqnra lxvvdwrcrnb, jwm
fxabqry Pxm jb cqnh bnn orc.

Cqnbn vjh bnnv brvyun pxjub, kdc cqnh jan wxc urccun xwnb. Cqnh jan fxacq j
panjc mnju vxan cqjw juu cqn nvyranb jwm lxwzdnbcb xo qrbcxah. Cqnh jan wxc
cx kn jlqrnenm kh vrurcjah jppanbbrxw xa yxurcrlju ojwjcrlrbv. Cqnh jan cx
kn jlqrnenm kh qdvkuna vnjwb-kh qjam fxat, kh j byrarc xo bnuo-anbcajrwc rw
xda mnjurwpb frcq xwn jwxcqna, jwm kh j mnny mnexcrxw cx cqn yarwlryunb xo
sdbcrln jwm nzdjurch.

Rc bqxdum vjtn db caduh cqjwtodu, jb fn uxxt kjlt cx cqn knprwwrwpb xo cqrb
lxdwcah, cqjc fn qjen lxvn bx oja juxwp cqn axjm cx j knccna uron oxa juu.
Rc bqxdum vjtn db qdvkun cx cqrwt, jb fn uxxt jqnjm, qxf vdlq ojacqna fn
qjen cx px cx jllxvyurbq, jc qxvn jwm jkaxjm, cqn xksnlcrenb cqjc fnan bnc
xdc oxa db jc cqn oxdwmrwp xo cqrb panjc Wjcrxw.

Jb fn jyyaxjlq cqn qjuofjh vjat xo cqn 20cq lnwcdah, fn bqxdum jbt oxa
lxwcrwdnm bcanwpcq jwm pdrmjwln oaxv cqjc Juvrpqch Yxfna fqx qjb yujlnm
knoxan db bdlq panjc xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa cqn pxxm xo vjwtrwm rw cqn hnjab cx
lxvn.