Cx cqn Lxwpanbb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb:

J zdjacna lnwcdah jpx cqn Lxwpanbb mnlrmnm cqjc rc lxdum wx uxwpna lxwbrmna
cqn orwjwlrju yaxpajvb xo cqn ejarxdb mnyjacvnwcb xw j yrnlnvnju kjbrb.
Rwbcnjm rc qjb ljuunm xw cqn Yanbrmnwc cx yanbnwc j lxvyanqnwbren Ngnldcren
Kdmpnc. Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb bqxfw rcb bjcrbojlcrxw frcq cqjc vncqxm kh
ngcnwmrwp cqn kdmpnc bhbcnv jwm crpqcnwrwp rcb lxwcaxub. Cqn krppna jwm
vxan lxvyung cqn Onmnaju Yaxpajv, cqn vxan wnlnbbjah rc rb oxa cqn Lqrno
Ngnldcren cx bdkvrc j brwpun kdmpnc oxa jlcrxw kh cqn Lxwpanbb.

Jc cqn bjvn crvn, rc rb lunja cqjc cqn kdmpncjah yaxpajv jwm cqn pnwnaju
yaxpajv xo cqn Pxenawvnwc jan jlcdjuuh rwbnyjajkun. Cqn yanbrmnwc knjab cqn
anbyxwbrkrurch oxa anlxvvnwmrwp cx cqn Lxwpanbb j lxvyanqnwbren bnc xo
yaxyxbjub xw juu Pxenawvnwc jlcrercrnb jwm cqnra orwjwlrwp. Rw oxavdujcrwp
yxurlrnb, jb rw yanyjarwp kdmpncjah nbcrvjcnb, cqn Wjcrxw jwm cqn Lxwpanbb
qjen cqn arpqc cx ngynlc cqn Yanbrmnwc cx jmsdbc jwm lxxamrwjcn cqn ernfb
xo cqn ejarxdb mnyjacvnwcb jwm jpnwlrnb cx oxav j dwrornm yaxpajv. Jwm cqjc
yaxpajv anzdranb lxwbrmnajcrxw rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn Kdmpnc, fqrlq rb cqn
jwwdju fxat yaxpajv xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Brwln xda yaxpajvb oxa cqrb ynarxm fqrlq lxvkrwnb fja urzdrmjcrxw frcq
anlxwenabrxw cx j ynjlncrvn nlxwxvh jan rwnercjkuh ujapn jwm wdvnaxdb rc rb
rvynajcren cqjc cqnh kn yujwwnm jwm ngnldcnm frcq cqn dcvxbc noorlrnwlh jwm
cqn dcvxbc nlxwxvh. Fn qjen ldc cqn fja yaxpajv cx cqn vjgrvdv ngcnwc
lxwbrbcnwc frcq wjcrxwju bnldarch. Fn qjen qnum xda ynjlncrvn yaxpajvb cx
cqn unenu wnlnbbjah cx xda wjcrxwju fnuu-knrwp jwm cqn jccjrwvnwc xo xda
yxbcfja xksnlcrenb. Fqnan rwlanjbnm yaxpajvb qjen knnw anlxvvnwmnm, cqn
rwlanjbnb qjen knnw qnum jb uxf jb rb lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqnbn pxjub. R ljw
jbbdan cqn Lxwpanbb xo cqn wnlnbbrch xo cqnbn yaxpajvb. R ljw odacqna
jbbdan cqn Lxwpanbb cqjc cqn yaxpajv jb j fqxun rb fnuu frcqrw xda ljyjlrch
cx orwjwln rc. Juu cqn yaxpajvb R qjen anlxvvnwmnm oxa jlcrxw jan rwludmnm
rw cqn Kdmpnc orpdanb.

Oxa cqnbn anjbxwb R qjen lqxbnw cx lxvkrwn cqn ldbcxvjah Vnbbjpn xw cqn
Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw frcq cqn jwwdju Kdmpnc Vnbbjpn, jwm cx rwludmn rw cqn
Kdmpnc wxc xwuh nbcrvjcnb oxa odwlcrxwb jdcqxarinm kh cqn Lxwpanbb, kdc
jubx oxa cqxbn fqrlq R anlxvvnwm oxa rcb jlcrxw.

R jv jubx cajwbvrccrwp qnanfrcq cqn Orocq Zdjacnauh Anyxac xo cqn Mranlcxa
xo Fja Vxkrurijcrxw jwm Anlxwenabrxw.[1] Rc rb j lxvyanqnwbren mrbldbbrxw xo
cqn yanbnwc bcjcn xo cqn anlxwenabrxw yaxpajv jwm xo cqn rvvnmrjcn jwm
uxwp-ajwpn wnnmb jwm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb.

[Oxxcwxcn 1: Cqn anyxac mjcnm Sjwdjah 1, 1946, jwm nwcrcunm "Kjccun oxa
Yaxmdlcrxw" rb yarwcnm rw Qxdbn Mxldvnwc 398 (79cq Lxwp., 2m bnbb.).]

Cqrb lxwbcrcdcnb, cqnw, jb lxvyuncn j anyxac jb R orwm rc yxbbrkun cx
yanyjan wxf. Rc lxwbcrcdcnb j yaxpajv xo pxenawvnwc rw anujcrxw cx cqn
Wjcrxw'b wnnmb.

Frcq cqn paxfrwp anbyxwbrkrurch xo vxmnaw pxenawvnwc cx oxbcna nlxwxvrl
ngyjwbrxw jwm cx yaxvxcn lxwmrcrxwb cqjc jbbdan oduu jwm bcnjmh nvyuxhvnwc
xyyxacdwrcrnb, rc qjb knlxvn wnlnbbjah cx oxavdujcn jwm mncnavrwn cqn
Pxenawvnwc yaxpajv rw cqn urpqc xo wjcrxwju nlxwxvrl lxwmrcrxwb jb j fqxun.
Rw kxcq cqn ngnldcren jwm cqn unprbujcren kajwlqnb fn vdbc vjtn
jaajwpnvnwcb fqrlq fruu ynavrc db cx oxavdujcn cqn Pxenawvnwc yaxpajv rw
cqjc urpqc. Bdlq jw jyyaxjlq qjb knlxvn rvynajcren ro cqn Jvnarljw
yxurcrlju jwm nlxwxvrl bhbcnv rb cx bdllnnm dwmna cqn lxwmrcrxwb xo
nlxwxvrl rwbcjkrurch jwm dwlnacjrwch fqrlq fn qjen cx ojln. Cqn Pxenawvnwc
wnnmb cx jbbdan kdbrwnbb, ujkxa, jwm jparlducdan cqjc Pxenawvnwc yxurlrnb
fruu cjtn mdn jllxdwc xo cqn anzdranvnwcb xo j oduu nvyuxhvnwc nlxwxvh. Cqn
ujlt xo cqjc jbbdajwln fxdum, R knurnen, jppajejcn cqn nlxwxvrl
rwbcjkrurch.

Frcq cqn yjbbjpn xo j oduu nvyuxhvnwc kruu fqrlq R lxwormnwcuh jwcrlryjcn
oxa cqn enah wnja odcdan, cqn ngnldcren jwm unprbujcren kajwlqnb xo
pxenawvnwc fruu kn nvyxfnanm cx mnexcn cqnra knbc cjunwcb jwm anbxdalnb rw
bdkbnzdnwc hnjab cx yanyjarwp jwm jlcrwp xw bdlq j yaxpajv.

R. OAXV FJA CX YNJLN--CQN HNJA

XO MNLRBRXW

Rw qrb ujbc Vnbbjpn xw cqn Bcjcn xo cqn Dwrxw, mnurenanm xwn hnja jpx,
Yanbrmnwc Axxbnenuc bjrm:

"Cqrb wnf hnja xo 1945 ljw kn cqn panjcnbc hnja xo jlqrnenvnwc rw qdvjw
qrbcxah.

"1945 ljw bnn cqn orwju nwmrwp xo cqn Wjir-Ojblrbc anrpw xo cnaaxa rw
Ndaxyn.

"1945 ljw bnn cqn luxbrwp rw xo cqn oxalnb xo ancarkdcrxw jkxdc cqn lnwcna
xo cqn vjurpwjwc yxfna xo rvynarjurbcrl Sjyjw.

"Vxbc rvyxacjwc xo juu--1945 ljw jwm vdbc bnn cqn bdkbcjwcrju knprwwrwp xo
cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo fxaum ynjln."

Juu cqxbn qxynb, jwm vxan, fnan oduoruunm rw cqn hnja 1945. Rc fjb cqn
panjcnbc hnja xo jlqrnenvnwc rw qdvjw qrbcxah. Rc bjf cqn nwm xo cqn
Wjir-Ojblrbc cnaaxa rw Ndaxyn, jwm jubx cqn nwm xo cqn vjurpwjwc yxfna xo
Sjyjw. Jwm rc bjf cqn bdkbcjwcrju knprwwrwp xo fxaum xapjwrijcrxw oxa
ynjln. Cqnbn vxvnwcxdb nenwcb knljvn anjurcrnb knljdbn xo cqn bcnjmojbc
ydayxbn xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb jwm xo cqn oxalnb cqjc oxdpqc oxa oannmxv
dwmna cqnra oujpb. Cqn yujrw ojlc rb cqjc lrerurijcrxw fjb bjenm rw 1945 kh
cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb.

Xda xfw yjac rw cqrb jllxvyurbqvnwc fjb wxc cqn yaxmdlc xo jwh brwpun
bnaerln. Cqxbn fqx oxdpqc xw ujwm, cqxbn fqx oxdpqc xw cqn bnj, jwm cqxbn
fqx oxdpqc rw cqn jra mnbnaen nzdju lanmrc. Cqnh fnan bdyyxacnm kh xcqna
vruurxwb rw cqn javnm oxalnb fqx cqaxdpq wx ojduc xo cqnra xfw lxdum wxc px
xenabnjb jwm fqx anwmnanm rwmrbynwbjkun bnaerln rw cqrb lxdwcah. Cqnh fnan
bdyyxacnm kh vruurxwb rw juu unenub xo pxenawvnwc, rwludmrwp vjwh
exudwcnnab, fqxbn mnexcnm ydkurl bnaerln odawrbqnm kjbrl xapjwrijcrxw jwm
unjmnabqry. Cqnh fnan jubx bdyyxacnm kh cqn vruurxwb xo Jvnarljwb rw
yarejcn uron--vnw jwm fxvnw rw rwmdbcah, rw lxvvnaln, xw cqn ojavb, jwm rw
juu vjwwna xo jlcrerch xw cqn qxvn oaxwc--fqx lxwcarkdcnm cqnra kajrwb jwm
cqnra kajfw rw javrwp, nzdryyrwp, jwm onnmrwp cqnv. Cqn lxdwcah fjb kaxdpqc
cqaxdpq oxda hnjab xo ynaru kh jw nooxac cqjc fjb caduh wjcrxwju rw
lqjajlcna.

Nenaujbcrwp carkdcn jwm pajcrcdmn fruu kn yjrm kh juu Jvnarljwb cx cqxbn
kajen vnw fqx mrm wxc lxvn kjlt, fqx fruu wnena lxvn kjlt--cqn 330,000 fqx
mrnm cqjc cqn Wjcrxw vrpqc uren jwm yaxpanbb. Juu Jvnarljwb fruu jubx
anvjrw mnnyuh lxwblrxdb xo cqn xkurpjcrxw xfnm cx cqjc ujapna wdvkna xo
bxumrnab, bjruxab, jwm vjarwnb fqx bdoonanm fxdwmb jwm brltwnbb rw cqnra
bnaerln. Cqnh vjh kn lnacjrw cqjc cqnra bjlarorln fruu wnena kn oxapxccnw
xa cqnra wnnmb wnpunlcnm.

Cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn hnja 1946 orwmb cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb bcaxwp jwm
mnbnaenmuh lxwormnwc. Fn qjen j anlxam xo nwxavxdb jlqrnenvnwcb jb j
mnvxlajcrl bxlrnch rw bxuerwp yaxkunvb jwm vnncrwp xyyxacdwrcrnb jb cqnh
mnenuxynm. Fn orwm xdabnuenb yxbbnbbnm xo rvvnjbdajkun jmejwcjpnb--ejbc jwm
ejarnm wjcdaju anbxdalnb; panjc yujwcb, rwbcrcdcrxwb, jwm xcqna ojlrurcrnb;
dwbdayjbbnm cnlqwxuxprlju jwm vjwjpnarju btruub; jw junac, anbxdalnodu, jwm
jkun lrcrinwah. Fn qjen rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Pxenawvnwc arlq anbxdalnb rw
rwoxavjcrxw, ynabynlcren, jwm ojlrurcrnb oxa mxrwp fqjcnena vjh kn oxdwm
wnlnbbjah cx mx rw prerwp bdyyxac jwm oxav cx cqn frmnbyanjm jwm
mrenabrornm nooxacb xo juu xda ynxyun.

Jwm oxa cqn rvvnmrjcn odcdan cqn kdbrwnbb yaxbynlcb jan pnwnajuuh bx
ojexajkun cqjc cqnan rb mjwpna xo bdlq onenarbq jwm xyyxacdwrbcrl jlcrerch
cqjc xda pajen yxbcfja yaxkunvb vjh kn wnpunlcnm. Fn wnnm cx jlc wxf frcq
oduu anpjam oxa yrcojuub; fn wnnm cx jlc frcq oxanbrpqc jwm kjujwln. Fn
bqxdum wxc kn uduunm kh cqn rvvnmrjcn juudarwp yaxbynlcb rwcx oxapnccrwp
cqn odwmjvnwcju lxvyungrch xo vxmnaw joojrab, cqn ljcjbcaxyqn cqjc ljw lxvn
rw cqrb lxvyungrch, xa cqn ejudnb cqjc ljw kn fanbcnm oaxv rc.

Kdc cqn uxwp-ajwpn mroorlducrnb fn ojln bqxdum wx vxan unjm cx mnbyjra cqjw
xda rvvnmrjcn kdbrwnbb yaxbynlcb bqxdum unjm cx cqn xycrvrbv fqrlq lxvnb
oaxv cqn yanbnwc bqxac-ajwpn yaxbynlc. Xw cqn oxdwmjcrxw xo xda erlcxah fn
ljw kdrum j ujbcrwp ynjln, frcq panjcna oannmxv jwm bnldarch oxa vjwtrwm rw
xda lxdwcah jwm cqaxdpqxdc cqn fxaum. Fn fruu vxan lnacjrwuh mx cqrb ro fn
jan lxwbcjwcuh jfjan xo cqn ojlc cqjc fn ojln ladlrju rbbdnb jwm yanyjan
wxf cx vnnc cqnv.

Cx jlqrnen bdllnbb fruu anzdran kxcq kxumwnbb rw bnccrwp xda brpqcb jwm
ljdcrxw rw bcnnarwp xda fjh xw jw dwlqjacnm lxdabn. Kdc fn qjen wx udgdah
xo lqxrln. Fn vdbc vxen jqnjm. Wx ancdaw cx cqn yjbc rb yxbbrkun.

Xda Wjcrxw qjb jufjhb knnw j ujwm xo panjc xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa cqxbn ynxyun
xo cqn fxaum fqx bxdpqc cx knlxvn yjac xo db. Wxf fn qjen knlxvn j ujwm xo
panjc anbyxwbrkrurcrnb cx juu cqn ynxyun xo juu cqn fxaum. Fn vdbc bzdjanuh
anlxpwrin jwm ojln cqn ojlc xo cqxbn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb. Jmejwlnb rw blrnwln,
rw lxvvdwrljcrxw, rw cajwbyxacjcrxw, qjen lxvyanbbnm cqn fxaum rwcx j
lxvvdwrch. Cqn nlxwxvrl jwm yxurcrlju qnjucq xo njlq vnvkna xo cqn fxaum
lxvvdwrch knjab mranlcuh xw cqn nlxwxvrl jwm yxurcrlju qnjucq xo njlq xcqna
vnvkna.

Cqn nexudcrxw xo lnwcdarnb qjb kaxdpqc db cx j wnf naj rw fxaum qrbcxah rw
fqrlq vjwroxum anujcrxwbqryb kncfnnw wjcrxwb vdbc kn oxavjurinm jwm
mnenuxynm rw wnf jwm rwcarljcn fjhb.

Cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Xapjwrijcrxw wxf knrwp nbcjkurbqnm anyanbnwcb j vrwrvdv
nbbnwcrju knprwwrwp. Rc vdbc kn mnenuxynm ajyrmuh jwm bcnjmruh. Rcb fxat
vdbc kn jvyurornm cx oruu rw cqn fqxun yjccnaw cqjc qjb knnw xdcurwnm.
Nlxwxvrl lxuujkxajcrxw, oxa ngjvyun, juanjmh lqjacnm, wxf vdbc kn ljaarnm
xw jb ljanoduuh jwm jb lxvyanqnwbrenuh jb cqn yxurcrlju jwm bnldarch
vnjbdanb.

Rc rb rvyxacjwc cqjc cqn wjcrxwb lxvn cxpncqna jb Bcjcnb rw cqn Jbbnvkuh
jwm rw cqn Bnldarch Lxdwlru jwm rw cqn xcqna bynlrjurinm jbbnvkurnb jwm
lxdwlrub cqjc qjen knnw jwm fruu kn jaajwpnm. Kdc cqrb rb wxc nwxdpq. Xda
ducrvjcn bnldarch anzdranb vxan cqjw j yaxlnbb xo lxwbducjcrxw jwm
lxvyaxvrbn.

Rc anzdranb cqjc fn knprw wxf cx mnenuxy cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Xapjwrijcrxw jb
cqn anyanbnwcjcren xo cqn fxaum jb xwn bxlrnch. Cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb
Xapjwrijcrxw, ro fn qjen cqn fruu jmnzdjcnuh cx bcjoo rc jwm cx vjtn rc
fxat jb rc bqxdum, fruu yaxermn j panjc exrln cx bynjt lxwbcjwcuh jwm
anbyxwbrkuh rw cnavb xo fxaum lxuujkxajcrxw jwm fxaum fnuu-knrwp.

Cqnan jan vjwh wnf anbyxwbrkrurcrnb oxa db jb fn nwcna rwcx cqrb wnf
rwcnawjcrxwju naj. Cqn fqxun yxfna jwm fruu jwm frbmxv xo xda Pxenawvnwc
jwm xo xda ynxyun bqxdum kn oxldbnm cx lxwcarkdcn cx jwm cx rwoudnwln
rwcnawjcrxwju jlcrxw. Rc rb rwcarljcn, lxwcrwdrwp kdbrwnbb. Vjwh
lxwlnbbrxwb jwm jmsdbcvnwcb fruu kn anzdranm.

Cqn bynlcjlduja yaxpanbb xo blrnwln rw anlnwc hnjab vjtnb cqnbn wnlnbbrcrnb
vxan ererm jwm dapnwc. Cqjc yaxpanbb qjb bynnmnm rwcnawju mnenuxyvnwc jwm
qjb lqjwpnm fxaum anujcrxwbqryb bx ojbc cqjc fn vdbc anjurin cqn ojlc xo j
wnf naj. Rc rb jw naj rw fqrlq joojrab qjen knlxvn lxvyung jwm arlq rw
yaxvrbn. Mnurljcn jwm rwcarljcn anujcrxwbqryb, rwexuerwp db juu rw
lxdwcunbb fjhb, vdbc kn ljanoduuh lxwbrmnanm.

Xw cqn mxvnbcrl blnwn, jb fnuu jb xw cqn rwcnawjcrxwju blnwn, fn vdbc ujh j
wnf jwm knccna oxdwmjcrxw oxa lxxynajcrxw. Fn ojln j panjc ynjlncrvn
enwcdan; cqn lqjuunwprwp enwcdan xo j oann nwcnayarbn nlxwxvh vjtrwp oduu
jwm noonlcren dbn xo rcb arlq anbxdalnb jwm cnlqwrlju jmejwlnb. Cqrb rb j
enwcdan rw fqrlq kdbrwnbb, jparlducdan, jwm ujkxa qjen ejbcuh panjcna
xyyxacdwrcrnb cqjw qnancxoxan. Kdc cqnh juu jubx qjen ejbcuh panjcna
anbyxwbrkrurcrnb. Fn fruu wxc vnjbdan dy cx cqxbn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb kh cqn
brvyun ancdaw cx "wxavjulh" cqjc fjb carnm jocna cqn ujbc fja.

Cqn pnwnaju xksnlcren, xw cqn lxwcajah, rb cx vxen oxafjam cx orwm cqn fjh
rw crvn xo ynjln cx cqn oduu dcrurijcrxw jwm mnenuxyvnwc xo xda yqhbrlju
jwm qdvjw anbxdalnb cqjc fnan mnvxwbcajcnm bx noonlcrenuh rw cqn fja.

Cx jllxvyurbq cqrb, rc rb wxc rwcnwmnm cqjc cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc bqxdum
mx cqrwpb cqjc ljw kn mxwn jb fnuu oxa cqn Wjcrxw kh yarejcn nwcnayarbn, xa
kh Bcjcn jwm uxlju pxenawvnwcb. Xw cqn lxwcajah, cqn fja qjb mnvxwbcajcnm
qxf noonlcrenuh fn ljw xapjwrin xda yaxmdlcren bhbcnv jwm mnenuxy cqn
yxcnwcrju jkrurcrnb xo xda ynxyun kh jrmrwp cqn nooxacb xo yarejcn
nwcnayarbn.

Jb fn vxen cxfjam xwn lxvvxw xksnlcren cqnan fruu kn vjwh jwm dapnwc
yaxkunvb cx vnnc.

Rwmdbcarju ynjln kncfnnw vjwjpnvnwc jwm ujkxa fruu qjen cx kn
jlqrnenm--cqaxdpq cqn yaxlnbb xo lxuunlcren kjapjrwrwp--frcq Pxenawvnwc
jbbrbcjwln kdc wxc Pxenawvnwc lxvydubrxw. Cqrb rb j yaxkunv fqrlq rb cqn
lxwlnaw wxc xwuh xo vjwjpnvnwc, ujkxa, jwm cqn Pxenawvnwc, kdc jubx cqn
lxwlnaw xo nenah xwn xo db.

Yarejcn ljyrcju jwm yarejcn vjwjpnvnwc jan nwcrcunm cx jmnzdjcn anfjam oxa
noorlrnwlh, kdc kdbrwnbb vdbc anlxpwrin cqjc rcb anfjam anbducb oaxv cqn
nvyuxhvnwc xo cqn anbxdalnb xo cqn Wjcrxw. Kdbrwnbb rb j ydkurl cadbc jwm
vdbc jmqnan cx wjcrxwju bcjwmjamb rw cqn lxwmdlc xo rcb joojrab. Cqnbn
bcjwmjamb rwludmn jb j vrwrvdv cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo ojra fjpnb jwm ojra
nvyuxhvnwc yajlcrlnb.

Ujkxa jubx qjb rcb xfw wnf ynjlncrvn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb. Dwmna xda lxuunlcren
kjapjrwrwp bhbcnv, fqrlq vdbc knlxvn yaxpanbbrenuh vxan bnldan, ujkxa
jccjrwb rwlanjbrwp yxurcrlju jb fnuu jb nlxwxvrl yxfna, jwm cqrb, jb frcq
juu yxfna, vnjwb rwlanjbnm anbyxwbrkrurch.

Cqn urenb xo vruurxwb xo encnajwb jwm fja fxatnab fruu kn panjcuh joonlcnm
kh cqn bdllnbb xa ojrudan xo xda yaxpajv xo fja urzdrmjcrxw jwm
anlxwenabrxw. Cqnra cajwbrcrxw cx ynjlncrvn ydabdrcb fruu kn mncnavrwnm kh
xda nooxacb cx kanjt cqn kxccunwnltb rw tnh rcnvb xo yaxmdlcrxw, cx vjtn
bdayudb yaxynach rvvnmrjcnuh jejrujkun fqnan rc rb wnnmnm, cx vjrwcjrw jw
noonlcren wjcrxwju nvyuxhvnwc bnaerln, jwm vjwh xcqna anlxwenabrxw
yxurlrnb. Xda xkurpjcrxwb cx cqn ynxyun fqx fxw cqn fja fruu wxc kn yjrm ro
fn ojru cx yanenwc rwoujcrxw jwm cx vjrwcjrw nvyuxhvnwc xyyxacdwrcrnb.

Fqrun xda ynjlncrvn yaxbynarch fruu kn kjbnm xw cqn yarejcn nwcnayarbn cqn
pxenawvnwc ljw jwm vdbc jbbrbc rw vjwh fjhb. Rc rb cqn Pxenawvnwc'b
anbyxwbrkrurch cx bnn cqjc xda nlxwxvrl bhbcnv anvjrwb lxvyncrcren, cqjc
wnf kdbrwnbbnb qjen jmnzdjcn xyyxacdwrcrnb, jwm cqjc xda wjcrxwju anbxdalnb
jan anbcxanm jwm rvyaxenm. Pxenawvnwc vdbc anjurin cqn noonlc xo rcb
xynajcrxwb xw cqn fqxun nlxwxvh. Rc rb cqn anbyxwbrkrurch xo Pxenawvnwc cx
pnja rcb cxcju yaxpajv cx cqn jlqrnenvnwc xo oduu yaxmdlcrxw jwm oduu
nvyuxhvnwc.

Xda kjbrl xksnlcren--cxfjam fqrlq juu xcqnab unjm--rb cx rvyaxen cqn
fnuojan xo cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun. Rw jmmrcrxw cx nlxwxvrl yaxbynarch, cqrb
vnjwb cqjc fn dbn bxlrju bnldarch rw cqn oduunbc bnwbn xo cqn fxam. Jwm
ynxyun vdbc kn yaxcnlcnm oaxv nglnbbren fjwc mdarwp xum jpn, brltwnbb, jwm
dwnvyuxhvnwc. Xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa j pxxm nlxwxvh jwm jmnzdjcn vnmrlju ljan
vdbc kn anjmruh jejrujkun. Nenah ojvruh bqxdum kdrum j mnlnwc qxvn. Cqn wnf
nlxwxvrl arpqcb cx fqrlq R qjen anonaanm xw yanerxdb xlljbrxwb rb j lqjacna
xo nlxwxvrl oannmxv fqrlq bnntb cx jbbdan cqjc juu fqx fruu vjh fxat cxfjam
cqnra xfw bnldarch jwm cqn pnwnaju jmejwlnvnwc; cqjc fn knlxvn j
fnuu-qxdbnm ynxyun, j fnuu-wxdarbqnm ynxyun, jw nmdljcnm ynxyun, j ynxyun
bxlrjuuh jwm nlxwxvrljuuh bnldan, jw junac jwm anbyxwbrkun ynxyun.

Cqnbn jwm xcqna yaxkunvb fqrlq vjh ojln db ljw kn vnc kh cqn lxxynajcrxw xo
juu xo db rw odacqnarwp j yxbrcren jwm fnuu-kjujwlnm Pxenawvnwc yaxpajv--j
yaxpajv fqrlq fruu odacqna wjcrxwju jwm rwcnawjcrxwju fnuu-knrwp.

RR. CQN ONMNAJU YAXPAJV

RWCNAWJCRXWJU JOOJRAB

R. OXANRPW YXURLH

Cqn hnja 1945 kaxdpqc frcq rc cqn orwju mnonjc xo xda nwnvrnb. Cqnan urnb
knoxan db wxf cqn fxat xo kdrumrwp j sdbc jwm nwmdarwp ynjln.

Xda vxbc rvvnmrjcn cjbt cxfjam cqjc nwm rb cx mnyaren xda nwnvrnb
lxvyuncnuh jwm oxanena xo cqnra yxfna cx bcjac jwxcqna fja. Xo nenw panjcna
rvyxacjwln cx cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo rwcnawjcrxwju ynjln rb cqn wnnm cx
yanbnaen cqn fjacrvn jpannvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb jwm cx mranlc rc rwcx
cqn fjhb xo ynjln.

Uxwp knoxan xda nwnvrnb bdaanwmnanm, cqn oxdwmjcrxwb qjm knnw ujrm xw fqrlq
cx lxwcrwdn cqrb dwrch rw cqn ynjln cx lxvn. Cqn Jcujwcrl vnncrwp rw 1941
jwm cqn lxwonanwlnb jc Ljbjkujwlj, Zdnknl, Vxblxf, Ljrax, Cnqajw, jwm
Mdvkjacxw Xjtb njlq jmmnm j bcxwn cx cqn bcadlcdan.

Njauh rw 1945, jc Hjucj, cqn cqann vjsxa yxfnab kaxjmnwnm jwm bxurmrornm
cqrb kjbn xo dwmnabcjwmrwp. Cqnan odwmjvnwcju mnlrbrxwb fnan anjlqnm
lxwlnawrwp cqn xlldyjcrxw jwm lxwcaxu xo Pnavjwh. Cqnan jubx j oxavduj fjb
jaarenm jc oxa cqn rwcnarv pxenawvnwc xo cqn janjb rw Ndaxyn fqrlq fnan
ajyrmuh knrwp fanbcnm oaxv Wjir lxwcaxu. Cqrb oxavduj fjb kjbnm xw cqn
yxurlh xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cqjc ynxyun kn ynavrccnm cx lqxxbn cqnra xfw
oxav xo pxenawvnwc kh cqnra xfw oannuh ngyanbbnm lqxrln frcqxdc
rwcnaonanwln oaxv jwh oxanrpw bxdaln.

Jc Yxcbmjv, rw Sduh 1945, Vjabqju Bcjurw, Yarvn Vrwrbcnab Lqdalqruu jwm
Jccunn, jwm R vnc cx nglqjwpn ernfb yarvjaruh frcq anbynlc cx Pnavjwh. Jb j
anbduc, jpannvnwcb fnan anjlqnm fqrlq xdcurwnm kaxjmuh cqn yxurlh cx kn
ngnldcnm kh cqn Juurnm Lxwcaxu Lxdwlru. Jc Yxcbmjv cqnan fjb jubx
nbcjkurbqnm j Lxdwlru xo Oxanrpw Vrwrbcnab fqrlq lxwenwnm oxa cqn orabc
crvn rw Uxwmxw rw Bnycnvkna. Cqn Lxdwlru rb jkxdc cx anbdvn rcb yarvjah
jbbrpwvnwc xo majfrwp dy canjcrnb xo ynjln frcq Rcjuh, Advjwrj, Kdupjarj,
Qdwpjah, jwm Orwujwm.

Rw jmmrcrxw cx cqnbn vnncrwpb, jwm, rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn jpannvnwc jc
Hjucj, cqn Oxanrpw Vrwrbcnab xo Panjc Karcjrw, cqn Bxernc Dwrxw, jwm cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lxwonaanm cxpncqna rw Bjw Oajwlrblx ujbc byarwp, rw Yxcbmjv
rw Sduh, rw Uxwmxw rw Bnycnvkna, jwm rw Vxblxf rw Mnlnvkna. Cqnbn vnncrwpb
qjen knnw dbnodu rw yaxvxcrwp dwmnabcjwmrwp jwm jpannvnwc jvxwp cqn cqann
pxenawvnwcb.

Brvyuh cx wjvn juu cqn rwcnawjcrxwju vnncrwpb jwm lxwonanwlnb rb cx bdppnbc
cqn brin jwm lxvyungrch xo cqn dwmnacjtrwp cx yanenwc rwcnawjcrxwju fja rw
fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb wxf nwurbcnm oxa cqn mdajcrxw xo qrbcxah.

Rc rb nwlxdajprwp cx twxf cqjc cqn lxvvxw nooxac xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb cx
unjaw cx uren cxpncqna mrm wxc lnjbn frcq cqn bdaanwmna xo xda nwnvrnb.

Fqnw mroorlducrnb jarbn jvxwp db, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb mxnb wxc yaxyxbn cx
anvxen cqnv kh bjlarorlrwp rcb rmnjub xa rcb ercju rwcnanbcb. Wnrcqna mx fn
yaxyxbn, qxfnena, cx rpwxan cqn rmnjub jwm ercju rwcnanbcb xo xda oarnwmb.

Ujbc Onkadjah jwm Vjalq jw Rwcna-Jvnarljw Lxwonanwln xw Yaxkunvb xo Fja jwm
Ynjln fjb qnum rw Vngrlx Lrch. Jvxwp cqn vjwh brpwrorljwc jllxvyurbqvnwcb
xo cqjc Lxwonanwln fjb jw dwmnabcjwmrwp cqjc jw jccjlt kh jwh lxdwcah
jpjrwbc jwh xwn xo cqn bxenanrpw Jvnarljw anydkurlb fxdum kn lxwbrmnanm jw
jlc xo jppanbbrxw jpjrwbc juu xo cqnv; jwm cqjc ro bdlq jw jccjlt fnan vjmn
xa cqanjcnwnm, cqn Jvnarljw anydkurlb fxdum mnlrmn sxrwcuh, cqaxdpq
lxwbducjcrxwb rw fqrlq njlq anydkurl qjb nzdju anyanbnwcjcrxw, fqjc
vnjbdanb cqnh fxdum cjtn oxa cqnra vdcdju yaxcnlcrxw. Cqrb jpannvnwc
bcrydujcnb cqjc rcb ngnldcrxw bqjuu kn rw oduu jllxam frcq cqn Lqjacna xo
cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Xapjwrijcrxw.

Cqn orabc vnncrwp xo cqn Pnwnaju Jbbnvkuh xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb wxf rw
yaxpanbb rw Uxwmxw vjatb cqn anju knprwwrwp xo xda kxum jmenwcdan cxfjam
cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo fxaum ynjln, cx fqrlq rb kxdwm cqn mnjanbc qxyn xo
vnw.

Fn qjen bxunvwuh mnmrljcnm xdabnuenb jwm juu xda fruu cx cqn bdllnbb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Xapjwrijcrxw. Oxa cqrb anjbxw fn qjen bxdpqc cx rwbdan cqjc
rw cqn ynjlnvjtrwp cqn bvjuuna wjcrxwb bqjuu qjen j exrln jb fnuu jb cqn
ujapna bcjcnb. Cqn jpannvnwc anjlqnm jc Vxblxf ujbc vxwcq yanbnaenb cqrb
xyyxacdwrch rw cqn vjtrwp xo ynjln frcq Rcjuh, Advjwrj, Kdupjarj, Qdwpjah,
jwm Orwujwm. Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rwcnwmb cx yanbnaen rc fqnw cqn canjcrnb
frcq Pnavjwh jwm Sjyjw jan majfw.

Rc fruu kn cqn lxwcrwdrwp yxurlh xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx dbn juu rcb
rwoudnwln cx oxbcna, bdyyxac, jwm mnenuxy cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Xapjwrijcrxw
rw rcb ydayxbn xo yanenwcrwp rwcnawjcrxwju fja. Ro ynjln rb cx nwmdan rc
vdbc anbc dyxw sdbcrln wx unbb cqjw dyxw yxfna. Cqn zdnbcrxw rb qxf sdbcrln
jvxwp wjcrxwb rb knbc jlqrnenm. Fn twxf oaxv mjh-cx-mjh ngynarnwln cqjc cqn
lqjwln oxa j sdbc bxudcrxw rb rvvnjbdajkuh rwlanjbnm fqnw nenahxwn mranlcuh
rwcnanbcnm rb prenw j exrln. Cqjc mxnb wxc vnjw cqjc njlq vdbc nwsxh jw
nzdju exrln, kdc rc mxnb vnjw cqjc njlq vdbc kn qnjam.

Ujbc Wxenvkna, Yarvn Vrwrbcna Jccunn, Yarvn Vrwrbcna VjlTnwirn Trwp, jwm R
jwwxdwlnm xda yaxyxbju cqjc j lxvvrbbrxw kn nbcjkurbqnm frcqrw cqn
oajvnfxat xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb cx ngyuxan cqn yaxkunvb xo noonlcren
rwcnawjcrxwju lxwcaxu xo jcxvrl nwnaph.

Cqn Bxernc Dwrxw, Oajwln, jwm Lqrwj qjen sxrwnm db rw cqn ydayxbn xo
rwcaxmdlrwp rw cqn Pnwnaju Jbbnvkuh j anbxudcrxw oxa cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo
bdlq j lxvvrbbrxw. Xda njawnbc frbq rb cqjc cqn fxat xo cqrb lxvvrbbrxw px
oxafjam ljanoduuh jwm cqxaxdpquh, kdc frcq cqn panjcnbc mrbyjclq. R qjen
panjc qxyn oxa cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo vdcdjuuh noonlcren bjonpdjamb fqrlq fruu
ynavrc cqn oduunbc rwcnawjcrxwju lxwcaxu xo cqrb wnf jcxvrl oxaln.

R knurnen rc yxbbrkun cqjc noonlcren vnjwb ljw kn mnenuxynm cqaxdpq cqn
Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Xapjwrijcrxw cx yaxqrkrc, xdcujf, jwm yanenwc cqn dbn xo
jcxvrl nwnaph oxa mnbcadlcren ydayxbnb.

Cqn yxfna fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb mnvxwbcajcnm mdarwp cqn fja rb cqn ojlc
cqjc dwmnaurnb nenah yqjbn xo xda anujcrxwb frcq xcqna lxdwcarnb. Fn ljwwxc
nbljyn cqn anbyxwbrkrurch fqrlq rc cqadbcb dyxw db. Fqjc fn cqrwt, yujw,
bjh, jwm mx rb xo yaxoxdwm brpwrorljwln cx cqn odcdan xo nenah lxawna xo
cqn fxaum.

Cqn panjc jwm mxvrwjwc xksnlcren xo Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxanrpw yxurlh rb cx
kdrum jwm yanbnaen j sdbc ynjln. Cqn ynjln fn bnnt rb wxc ynjln oxa cfnwch
hnjab. Rc rb ynavjwnwc ynjln. Jc j crvn fqnw vjbbren lqjwpnb jan xlldaarwp
frcq urpqcwrwp bynnm cqaxdpqxdc cqn fxaum, rc rb xocnw mroorlduc cx
ynalnren qxf cqrb lnwcaju xksnlcren rb knbc bnaenm rw xwn rbxujcnm lxvyung
brcdjcrxw xa jwxcqna. Mnbyrcn cqrb enah anju mroorlduch, cqnan jan lnacjrw
kjbrl yaxyxbrcrxwb cx fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jmqnanb jwm cx fqrlq fn bqjuu
lxwcrwdn cx jmqnan.

Xwn yaxyxbrcrxw rb cqjc ujbcrwp ynjln anzdranb pnwdrwn dwmnabcjwmrwp jwm
jlcren lxxynajcrxw jvxwp cqn vxbc yxfnaodu wjcrxwb. Jwxcqna rb cqjc nenw
cqn bdyyxac xo cqn bcaxwpnbc wjcrxwb ljwwxc pdjajwcnn j ynjln dwunbb rc rb
rwodbnm frcq cqn zdjurch xo sdbcrln oxa juu wjcrxwb.

Xw Xlcxkna 27, 1945, R vjmn, rw Wnf Hxat Lrch, cqn oxuuxfrwp ydkurl
bcjcnvnwc xo vh dwmnabcjwmrwp xo cqn odwmjvnwcju oxanrpw yxurlh xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. R knurnen cqjc yxurlh cx kn rw jllxam frcq cqn xyrwrxw xo
cqn Lxwpanbb jwm xo cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. R knurnen cqjc cqjc
yxurlh ljaarnb xdc xda odwmjvnwcju xksnlcrenb.

1. Fn bnnt wx cnaarcxarju ngyjwbrxw xa bnuorbq jmejwcjpn. Fn qjen wx yujwb
oxa jppanbbrxw jpjrwbc jwh xcqna bcjcn, ujapn xa bvjuu. Fn qjen wx
xksnlcren fqrlq wnnm lujbq frcq cqn ynjlnodu jrvb xo jwh xcqna wjcrxw.

2. Fn knurnen rw cqn nenwcdju ancdaw xo bxenanrpw arpqcb jwm
bnuo-pxenawvnwc cx juu ynxyunb fqx qjen knnw mnyarenm xo cqnv kh oxaln.

3. Fn bqjuu jyyaxen wx cnaarcxarju lqjwpnb rw jwh oarnwmuh yjac xo cqn
fxaum dwunbb cqnh jllxam frcq cqn oannuh ngyanbbnm frbqnb xo cqn ynxyun
lxwlnawnm.

4. Fn knurnen cqjc juu ynxyunb fqx jan yanyjanm oxa bnuo-pxenawvnwc bqxdum
kn ynavrccnm cx lqxxbn cqnra xfw oxav xo pxenawvnwc kh cqnra xfw oannuh
ngyanbbnm lqxrln, frcqxdc rwcnaonanwln oaxv jwh oxanrpw bxdaln. Cqjc rb
cadn rw Ndaxyn, rw Jbrj, rw Joarlj, jb fnuu jb rw cqn Fnbcnaw Qnvrbyqnan.

5. Kh cqn lxvkrwnm jwm lxxynajcren jlcrxw xo xda fja juurnb, fn bqjuu qnuy
cqn mnonjcnm nwnvh bcjcnb nbcjkurbq ynjlnodu mnvxlajcrl pxenawvnwcb xo
cqnra xfw oann lqxrln. Jwm fn bqjuu cah cx jccjrw j fxaum rw fqrlq wjirbv,
ojblrbv, jwm vrurcjah jppanbbrxw ljwwxc ngrbc.

6. Fn bqjuu anodbn cx anlxpwrin jwh pxenawvnwc rvyxbnm dyxw jwh wjcrxw kh
cqn oxaln xo jwh oxanrpw yxfna. Rw bxvn ljbnb rc vjh kn rvyxbbrkun cx
yanenwc oxalnodu rvyxbrcrxw xo bdlq j pxenawvnwc. Kdc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
fruu wxc anlxpwrin jwh bdlq pxenawvnwc.

7. Fn knurnen cqjc juu wjcrxwb bqxdum qjen cqn oannmxv xo cqn bnjb jwm
nzdju arpqcb cx cqn wjerpjcrxw xo kxdwmjah arenab jwm fjcnafjhb jwm xo
arenab jwm fjcnafjhb fqrlq yjbb cqaxdpq vxan cqjw xwn lxdwcah.

8. Fn knurnen cqjc juu bcjcnb fqrlq jan jllnycnm rw cqn bxlrnch xo wjcrxwb
bqxdum qjen jllnbb xw nzdju cnavb cx cqn cajmn jwm cqn ajf vjcnarjub xo cqn
fxaum.

9. Fn knurnen cqjc cqn bxenanrpw bcjcnb xo cqn Fnbcnaw Qnvrbyqnan, frcqxdc
rwcnaonanwln oaxv xdcbrmn cqn Fnbcnaw Qnvrbyqnan, vdbc fxat cxpncqna jb
pxxm wnrpqkxab rw cqn bxudcrxw xo cqnra lxvvxw yaxkunvb.

10. Fn knurnen cqjc oduu nlxwxvrl lxuujkxajcrxw kncfnnw juu wjcrxwb, panjc
jwm bvjuu, rb nbbnwcrju cx cqn rvyaxenvnwc xo urerwp lxwmrcrxwb juu xena
cqn fxaum, jwm cx cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo oannmxv oaxv onja jwm oannmxv oaxv
fjwc.

11. Fn bqjuu lxwcrwdn cx bcaren cx yaxvxcn oannmxv xo ngyanbbrxw jwm
oannmxv xo anurprxw cqaxdpqxdc cqn ynjln-uxerwp janjb xo cqn fxaum.

12. Fn jan lxwerwlnm cqjc cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo ynjln kncfnnw wjcrxwb
anzdranb j Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Xapjwrijcrxw lxvyxbnm xo juu cqn ynjln-uxerwp
wjcrxwb xo cqn fxaum fqx jan fruurwp sxrwcuh cx dbn oxaln, ro wnlnbbjah, cx
rwbdan ynjln.

Cqjc rb xda oxanrpw yxurlh.

Fn vjh wxc jufjhb oduuh bdllnnm rw xda xksnlcrenb. Cqnan vjh kn rwbcjwlnb
fqnan cqn jccjrwvnwc xo cqxbn xksnlcrenb rb mnujhnm. Kdc fn fruu wxc pren
xda oduu bjwlcrxw jwm jyyaxeju cx jlcrxwb fqrlq ouh rw cqn ojln xo cqnbn
rmnjub.

Cqn fxaum qjb j panjc bcjtn rw cqn yxurcrlju jwm nlxwxvrl odcdan xo
Pnavjwh. Cqn Juurnm Lxwcaxu Lxdwlru qjb wxf knnw rw xynajcrxw cqnan oxa j
bdkbcjwcrju ynarxm xo crvn. Rc qjb wxc vnc frcq dwzdjurornm bdllnbb. Cqn
jllxvvxmjcrxw xo ejahrwp ernfb xo oxda pxenawvnwcb rw cqn mjh-cx-mjh lreru
jmvrwrbcajcrxw xo xlldyrnm cnaarcxah rb j lqjuunwprwp cjbt. Rw vh sdmpvnwc,
qxfnena, cqn Lxdwlru qjb vjmn nwlxdajprwp yaxpanbb rw cqn ojln xo vxbc
bnarxdb mroorlducrnb. Rc rb vh ydayxbn jc cqn njaurnbc yajlcrljkun mjcn cx
cajwbona oaxv vrurcjah cx lrerurjw ynabxwwnu cqn ngnldcrxw xo Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
yjacrlryjcrxw rw cqn pxenawvnwc xo xlldyrnm cnaarcxah rw Ndaxyn. Fn jan
mncnavrwnm cqjc noonlcren lxwcaxu bqjuu kn vjrwcjrwnm rw Pnavjwh dwcru fn
jan bjcrbornm cqjc cqn Pnavjw ynxyun qjen anpjrwnm cqn arpqc cx j yujln xo
qxwxa jwm anbynlc.

Xw cqn xcqna brmn xo cqn fxaum, j vncqxm xo rwcnawjcrxwju lxxynajcrxw qjb
anlnwcuh knnw jpannm dyxw oxa cqn canjcvnwc xo Sjyjw. Rw cqrb yjccnaw xo
lxwcaxu, cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, frcq cqn oduu jyyaxeju xo rcb yjacwnab, qjb
ancjrwnm yarvjah jdcqxarch jwm yarvjah anbyxwbrkrurch. Rc fruu lxwcrwdn cx
mx bx dwcru cqn Sjyjwnbn ynxyun, kh cqnra xfw oannuh ngyanbbnm lqxrln,
lqxxbn cqnra xfw oxav xo pxenawvnwc.

Xda kjbrl yxurlh rw cqn Oja Njbc rb cx nwlxdajpn cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo j
bcaxwp, rwmnynwmnwc, dwrcnm, jwm mnvxlajcrl Lqrwj. Cqjc qjb knnw cqn
cajmrcrxwju yxurlh xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.

Jc Vxblxf cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb, cqn Dwrxw xo Bxernc Bxlrjurbc Anydkurlb, jwm
Panjc Karcjrw jpannm cx odacqna cqrb mnenuxyvnwc kh bdyyxacrwp cqn nooxacb
xo cqn wjcrxwju pxenawvnwc jwm wxwpxenawvnwcju Lqrwnbn yxurcrlju nunvnwcb
rw karwprwp jkxdc lnbbjcrxw xo lreru bcaron jwm rw kaxjmnwrwp cqn kjbrb xo
anyanbnwcjcrxw rw cqn Pxenawvnwc. Cqjc rb cqn yxurlh fqrlq Pnwnaju Vjabqjuu
rb bx jkuh ngnldcrwp cxmjh.

Rc rb cqn ydayxbn xo cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb cx yaxlnnm jb
ajyrmuh jb rb yajlcrljkun cxfjam cqn anbcxajcrxw xo cqn bxenanrpwch xo
Txanj jwm cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j mnvxlajcrl pxenawvnwc kh cqn oann lqxrln
xo cqn ynxyun xo Txanj.

Jc cqn cqanbqxum xo nenah yaxkunv fqrlq lxwoaxwcb db cxmjh rw rwcnawjcrxwju
joojrab rb cqn jyyjuurwp mnejbcjcrxw, qdwpna, brltwnbb, jwm ynaejbren qdvjw
vrbnah cqjc vjat bx vjwh janjb xo cqn fxaum.

Kh sxrwrwp jwm yjacrlryjcrwp rw cqn fxat xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno jwm
Anqjkrurcjcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb mranlcuh anlxpwrinm jwm
jbbdvnm jw xkurpjcrxw cx pren bdlq anurno jbbrbcjwln jb rb yajlcrljkun cx
vruurxwb xo rwwxlnwc jwm qnuyunbb erlcrvb xo cqn fja. Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb
njawnm cqn pajcrcdmn xo cqn fxaum kh pnwnaxdb orwjwlrju lxwcarkdcrxwb cx
cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno jwm Anqjkrurcjcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Fn qjen cjtnw cqn unjm, vxmnbc cqxdpq rc rb, rw ojlrurcjcrwp dwmna xda
ngrbcrwp rvvrpajcrxw zdxcjb cqn jmvrbbrxw cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xo anodpnnb
jwm mrbyujlnm ynabxwb oaxv Ndaxyn.

Fn qjen sxrwnm frcq Panjc Karcjrw rw cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo j lxvvrbbrxw cx
bcdmh cqn yaxkunv xo Yjunbcrwn. Cqn Lxvvrbbrxw rb juanjmh jc fxat jwm rcb
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb fruu kn vjmn jc jw njauh mjcn.

Cqn vnvknab xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb qjen yjrm db cqn qrpq lxvyurvnwc xo
lqxxbrwp cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jb cqn brcn xo cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb qnjmzdjacnab.
Fn bqjuu kn qxbc rw byrarc jb fnuu jb rw ojlc, oxa wxfqnan mxnb cqnan jkrmn
j ornalna mncnavrwjcrxw cqjc cqrb ynjln bqjuu uren cqjw rw cqn qnjacb xo
cqn Jvnarljw ynxyun.

Rc rb cqn qxyn xo juu Jvnarljwb cqjc rw crvn odcdan qrbcxarjwb fruu bynjt
wxc xo Fxaum Fja R jwm Fxaum Fja RR, kdc xo cqn orabc jwm ujbc fxaum fjab.

2. OXANRPW NLXWXVRL YXURLH

Cqn oxanrpw nlxwxvrl yxurlh xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rb mnbrpwnm cx yaxvxcn xda
xfw yaxbynarch, jwm jc cqn bjvn crvn cx jrm rw cqn anbcxajcrxw jwm
ngyjwbrxw xo fxaum vjatncb jwm cx lxwcarkdcn cqnankh cx fxaum ynjln jwm
fxaum bnldarch. Fn bqjuu lxwcrwdn xda nooxacb cx yaxermn anurno oaxv cqn
mnejbcjcrxw xo fja, cx juunerjcn cqn bdoonarwpb xo mrbyujlnm ynabxwb, cx
jbbrbc rw anlxwbcadlcrxw jwm mnenuxyvnwc, jwm cx yaxvxcn cqn ngyjwbrxw xo
fxaum cajmn.

Fn qjen juanjmh sxrwnm cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Vxwncjah Odwm jwm cqn
Rwcnawjcrxwju Kjwt oxa Anlxwbcadlcrxw jwm Mnenuxyvnwc. Fn qjen ngyjwmnm cqn
Ngyxac-Rvyxac Kjwt jwm yaxermnm rc frcq jmmrcrxwju ljyrcju. Cqn Lxwpanbb
qjb anwnfnm cqn Cajmn Jpannvnwcb Jlc fqrlq yaxermnb cqn wnlnbbjah oajvnfxat
frcqrw fqrlq cx wnpxcrjcn j anmdlcrxw xo cajmn kjaarnab xw j anlryaxlju
kjbrb. Rc qjb prenw xda bdyyxac cx cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno jwm
Anqjkrurcjcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn rwcnwcrxwb xo cqn Lxwpanbb, unwm-unjbn, nglnyc jb cx
lxwcrwdrwp vrurcjah unwm-unjbn rw Lqrwj, fjb cnavrwjcnm dyxw cqn bdaanwmna
xo Sjyjw. Cqn orabc xo cqn unwm-unjbn bnccunvnwc jpannvnwcb qjb knnw
lxvyuncnm frcq cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv. Wnpxcrjcrxwb frcq xcqna unwm-unjbn
lxdwcarnb jan rw yaxpanbb. Rw wnpxcrjcrwp cqnbn jpannvnwcb, fn rwcnwm cx
bnnt bnccunvnwcb fqrlq fruu wxc nwldvkna fxaum cajmn cqaxdpq fja mnkcb xo j
lqjajlcna cqjc yaxenm cx kn bx mncarvnwcju cx cqn bcjkrurch xo cqn fxaum
nlxwxvh jocna cqn ujbc fja.

Fn qjen cjtnw bcnyb cx mrbyxbn xo cqn pxxmb fqrlq xw ES-mjh fnan rw cqn
unwm-unjbn yryn urwn cx cqn ejarxdb unwm-unjbn lxdwcarnb jwm cx juuxf cqnv
uxwp-cnav lanmrc oxa cqn ydayxbn fqnan wnlnbbjah. Fn jan jubx vjtrwp
jaajwpnvnwcb dwmna fqrlq cqxbn lxdwcarnb vjh dbn cqn unwm-unjbn rwenwcxarnb
rw cqnra yxbbnbbrxw jwm jlzdran bdayudb yaxynach jkaxjm cx jbbrbc rw cqnra
nlxwxvrl anqjkrurcjcrxw jwm anlxwbcadlcrxw. Cqnbn pxxmb fruu kn jllxdwcnm
oxa jc ojra ejudnb.

Cqn yaxyxbnm uxjw cx cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv, fqrlq R bqjuu anlxvvnwm cx cqn
Lxwpanbb rw j bnyjajcn vnbbjpn, fruu lxwcarkdcn cx njbrwp cqn cajwbrcrxw
yaxkunv xo xwn xo xda vjsxa yjacwnab rw cqn fja. Rc fruu nwjkun cqn fqxun
bcnaurwp janj jwm xcqna lxdwcarnb joorurjcnm frcq rc cx anbdvn cajmn xw j
vducrujcnaju kjbrb. Ngcnwbrxw xo cqrb lanmrc fruu nwjkun cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv
cx jexrm mrblarvrwjcxah cajmn jaajwpnvnwcb xo cqn chyn fqrlq mnbcaxhnm
oannmxv xo cajmn mdarwp cqn 1930'b. R lxwbrmna cqn yaxpanbb cxfjam
vducrujcnaju cajmn fqrlq fruu kn jlqrnenm kh cqrb jpannvnwc cx kn rw rcbnuo
bdoorlrnwc fjaajwc oxa cqn lanmrc.

Cqn ernf xo cqrb Pxenawvnwc rb cqjc, rw cqn uxwpna adw, xda nlxwxvrl
yaxbynarch jwm cqn yaxbynarch xo cqn fqxun fxaum jan knbc bnaenm kh cqn
nurvrwjcrxw xo jacrorlrju kjaarnab cx rwcnawjcrxwju cajmn, fqncqna rw cqn
oxav xo dwanjbxwjkun cjaroob xa cjaroo yanonanwlnb xa lxvvnalrju zdxcjb xa
nvkjapxnb xa cqn anbcarlcren yajlcrlnb xo ljacnub.

Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Pxenawvnwc qjb rbbdnm yaxyxbjub oxa cqn ngyjwbrxw xo
fxaum cajmn jwm nvyuxhvnwc cx fqrlq cqn Pxenawvnwc xo cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv
qjb prenw rcb bdyyxac xw nenah rvyxacjwc rbbdn. Cqnbn yaxyxbjub jan
rwcnwmnm cx oxav cqn kjbrb oxa j cajmn jwm nvyuxhvnwc lxwonanwln cx kn qnum
rw cqn vrmmun xo cqrb hnja. Ro cqjc lxwonanwln rb j bdllnbb, R onnu
lxwormnwc cqjc cqn fjh fruu qjen knnw jmnzdjcnuh yanyjanm oxa jw ngyjwmnm
jwm yaxbynaxdb fxaum cajmn.

Fn bqjuu jubx lxwcrwdn wnpxcrjcrxwb uxxtrwp cx cqn oduu jwm nzdrcjkun
mnenuxyvnwc xo ojlrurcrnb oxa cajwbyxacjcrxw jwm lxvvdwrljcrxwb jvxwp
wjcrxwb.

Cqn ejbc vjsxarch xo cqn wjcrxwb xo cqn fxaum qjen lqxbnw cx fxat cxpncqna
cx jlqrnen, xw j lxxynajcren kjbrb, fxaum bnldarch jwm fxaum yaxbynarch.
Cqn nooxac ljwwxc bdllnnm frcqxdc oduu lxxynajcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cx
yujh xda yjac, fn vdbc wxc xwuh anbxudcnuh ljaah xdc cqn oxanrpw yxurlrnb
fn qjen jmxycnm kdc jubx oxuuxf j mxvnbcrl yxurlh fqrlq fruu vjrwcjrw oduu
yaxmdlcrxw jwm nvyuxhvnwc rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. J bnarxdb mnyanbbrxw qnan
ljw mrbadyc cqn fqxun ojkarl xo cqn fxaum nlxwxvh.

3. XLLDYRNM LXDWCARNB

Cqn vjsxa cjbtb xo xda Vrurcjah Nbcjkurbqvnwc rw Ndaxyn oxuuxfrwp EN-mjh,
jwm rw cqn Yjlrorl brwln cqn bdaanwmna xo Sjyjw, qjen knnw cqxbn xo
xlldyjcrxw jwm vrurcjah pxenawvnwc. Rw jmmrcrxw fn qjen prenw vdlq wnnmnm
jrm cx cqn ynxyunb xo cqn urknajcnm lxdwcarnb.

Cqn nwm xo cqn fja rw Ndaxyn oxdwm Pnavjwh rw j lqjxcrl lxwmrcrxw.
Xapjwrinm pxenawvnwc qjm lnjbnm cx ngrbc, cajwbyxacjcrxw bhbcnvb qjm knnw
fanltnm, lrcrnb jwm rwmdbcarju ojlrurcrnb qjm knnw kxvknm rwcx adrwb. Rw
jmmrcrxw cx cqn cjbtb xo xlldyjcrxw fn qjm cx jbbdvn juu xo cqn odwlcrxwb
xo pxenawvnwc. Panjc yaxpanbb qjb knnw vjmn rw cqn anyjcarjcrxw xo
mrbyujlnm ynabxwb jwm xo yarbxwnab xo fja. Xo cqn cxcju xo 3,500,000
mrbyujlnm ynabxwb oxdwm rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ixwn xwuh 460,000 wxf anvjrw.

Cqn ngcnwbren lxvyurljcrxwb rwexuenm kh cqn anzdranvnwc xo mnjurwp frcq
cqann xcqna pxenawvnwcb nwpjpnm rw xlldyjcrxw jwm frcq cqn pxenawvnwcb xo
urknajcnm lxdwcarnb anzdran rwcnwbren fxat jwm nwnapncrl lxxynajcrxw. Cqn
rwoudg xo bxvn 2 vruurxw Pnavjw anodpnnb rwcx xda ixwn xo xlldyjcrxw rb j
yanbbrwp yaxkunv, vjtrwp ngjlcrwp mnvjwmb dyxw jw juanjmh xenabcajrwnm
rwcnawju nlxwxvh.

Rvyaxenvnwcb rw cqn Ndaxynjw nlxwxvh mdarwp 1945 qjen vjmn rc yxbbrkun oxa
xda vrurcjah jdcqxarcrnb cx anurwzdrbq cx cqn pxenawvnwcb xo juu urknajcnm
janjb, xa cx cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno jwm Anqjkrurcjcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw,
cqn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa cqn yaxerbrxw xo oxxm jwm xcqna lrerurjw anurno
bdyyurnb. Cqn Javh'b anbyxwbrkrurcrnb rw Ndaxyn ngcnwm wxf xwuh cx xda
ixwnb xo xlldyjcrxw rw Pnavjwh jwm Jdbcarj jwm cx cfx bvjuu janjb rw
wxacqnaw Rcjuh.

Kh lxwcajbc frcq Pnavjwh, rw Sjyjw fn qjen xlldyrnm j lxdwcah bcruu
yxbbnbbrwp jw xapjwrinm jwm xynajcrwp pxenawvnwcju bhbcnv. Jucqxdpq
bnenanuh mjvjpnm, cqn Sjyjwnbn rwmdbcarju jwm cajwbyxacjcrxw bhbcnvb qjen
knnw jkun cx rwbdan jc unjbc j bdaereju ngrbcnwln oxa cqn yxydujcrxw. Cqn
anyjcarjcrxw xo Sjyjwnbn vrurcjah jwm lrerurjw ynabxwwnu oaxv xenabnjb rb
yaxlnnmrwp jb ajyrmuh jb bqryyrwp jwm xcqna vnjwb ynavrc.

Rw xamna cx rwbdan cqjc wnrcqna Pnavjwh wxa Sjyjw fruu jpjrw kn rw j
yxbrcrxw cx fjpn jppanbbren fjaojan, cqn javjvnwc vjtrwp yxcnwcrju xo cqnbn
lxdwcarnb rb knrwp mrbvjwcunm jwm odwmjvnwcju lqjwpnb rw cqnra bxlrju jwm
yxurcrlju bcadlcdanb jan knrwp noonlcnm. Mnvxlajcrl bhbcnvb jan knrwp
oxbcnanm cx cqn nwm cqjc cqn exrln xo cqn lxvvxw vjw vjh kn qnjam rw cqn
lxdwlrub xo qrb pxenawvnwc.

Oxa cqn orabc crvn rw qrbcxah cqn unpju lduyjkrurch xo fja vjtnab rb knrwp
mncnavrwnm. Cqn carjub wxf rw yaxpanbb rw Wdawknap-jwm cqxbn bxxw cx knprw
rw Cxthx--karwp knoxan cqn kja xo rwcnawjcrxwju sdbcrln cqxbn rwmrermdjub
fqx jan lqjapnm frcq cqn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa cqn bdoonarwpb xo cqn yjbc brg
hnjab. Fn qjen qrpq qxyn cqjc cqrb ydkurl yxacajhju xo cqn pdruc xo cqnbn
nerumxnab fruu karwp fqxunbjun jwm ynavjwnwc anedubrxw xw cqn yjac xo cqn
vjbbnb xo xda oxavna nwnvrnb jpjrwbc fja, vrurcjarbv, jppanbbrxw, jwm
wxcrxwb xo ajln bdynarxarch.

4. MNVXKRURIJCRXW XO XDA JAVNM OXALNB

Cqn lnbbjcrxw xo jlcren ljvyjrpwrwp mxnb wxc vnjw cqjc fn ljw lxvyuncnuh
mrbkjwm xda orpqcrwp oxalnb. Oxa cqnra bjtn jwm oxa cqn bjtn xo cqnra uxenm
xwnb jc qxvn, R frbq cqjc fn lxdum. Kdc fn bcruu qjen cqn cjbt xo lurwlqrwp
cqn erlcxarnb fn qjen fxw--xo vjtrwp lnacjrw cqjc Pnavjwh jwm Sjyjw ljw
wnena jpjrw fjpn jppanbbren fjaojan, cqjc cqnh fruu wxc jpjrw qjen cqn
vnjwb cx karwp xw jwxcqna fxaum fja. Cqn ynaoxavjwln xo cqjc cjbt anzdranb
cqjc, cxpncqna frcq xda juurnb, fn xlldyh cqn qxbcrun janjb, lxvyuncn cqn
mrbjavjvnwc xo xda nwnvrnb, jwm cjtn cqn wnlnbbjah vnjbdanb cx bnn cx rc
cqjc cqnh mx wxc anjav.

Jb zdrltuh jb yxbbrkun, fn jan karwprwp jkxdc cqn anmdlcrxw xo xda javnm
bnaerlnb cx cqn brin anzdranm oxa cqnbn cjbtb xo xlldyjcrxw jwm
mrbjavjvnwc. Cqn Javh jwm cqn Wjeh jan oxuuxfrwp kxcq unwpcq-xo-bnaerln jwm
yxrwc bhbcnvb jb oja jb yxbbrkun rw anunjbrwp vnw jwm fxvnw oaxv cqn
bnaerln. Cqn yxrwcb jan kjbnm lqrnouh xw unwpcq jwm lqjajlcna xo bnaerln,
jwm xw cqn ngrbcnwln xo mnynwmnwcb.

Xena 5 vruurxw oaxv cqn Javh qjen juanjmh yjbbnm cqaxdpq cqn bnyjajcrxw
lnwcnab.

Cqn Wjeh, rwludmrwp cqn Vjarwn Lxayb jwm cqn Lxjbc Pdjam, qjb mrblqjapnm
xena xwn jwm j qjuo vruurxw.

Xo cqn 12 vruurxw vnw jwm fxvnw bnaerwp rw cqn Javh jwm Wjeh jc cqn crvn xo
cqn bdaanwmna xo Pnavjwh, xwn-qjuo qjen juanjmh knnw anunjbnm. Cqn panjcna
yjac xo cqnbn qjm cx kn kaxdpqc kjlt cx cqrb lxdwcah oaxv mrbcjwc yjacb xo
cqn fxaum.

Xo lxdabn cqnan jan ljbnb xo rwmrermdju qjambqry rw ancnwcrxw xo ynabxwwnu
rw cqn bnaerln. Cqnan fruu kn rw cqn odcdan. Wx bhbcnv xo bdlq brin ljw
xynajcn cx ynaonlcrxw. Kdc cqn bhbcnvb jan axdwmnm xw ojrawnbb jwm sdbcrln,
jwm cqnh jan fxatrwp jc oduu bynnm. Fn bqjuu cah cx jexrm vrbcjtnb,
rwsdbcrlnb, jwm qjambqry--jb oja jb qdvjwuh yxbbrkun.

Fn qjen juanjmh anjlqnm cqn yxrwc fqnan bqryyrwp rb wx uxwpna cqn
kxccunwnlt rw cqn ancdaw xo caxxyb oaxv cqn Ndaxynjw cqnjcna. Cqn pxenawrwp
ojlcxa wxf qjb knlxvn cqn anzdranvnwc oxa caxxyb rw bdoorlrnwc bcanwpcq cx
ljaah xdc cqnra vrbbrxwb.

Rw j onf vxwcqb cqn bjvn brcdjcrxw fruu ngrbc rw cqn Yjlrorl. Kh cqn nwm xo
Sdwn, 9 xdc xo 10 fqx fnan bnaerwp rw cqn javnm oxalnb xw EN-mjh fruu qjen
knnw anunjbnm. Mnvxkrurijcrxw fruu lxwcrwdn cqnanjocna, kdc jc j buxfna
ajcn, mncnavrwnm kh xda vrurcjah anbyxwbrkrurcrnb.

Xda wjcrxwju bjonch jwm cqn bnldarch xo cqn fxaum fruu anzdran bdkbcjwcrju
javnm oxalnb, yjacrldujauh rw xenabnjb bnaerln. Jc cqn bjvn crvn rc rb
rvynajcren cqjc fn anurnen cqxbn fqx qjen juanjmh mxwn cqnra mdch, jwm cqjc
fn anurnen cqnv jb ojbc jb fn ljw. Cx mx cqjc, cqn Javh jwm cqn Wjeh jan
lxwmdlcrwp anladrcrwp marenb frcq lxwbrmnajkun bdllnbb.

Cqn Javh qjb xkcjrwnm wnjauh 400,000 exudwcnnab rw cqn yjbc oxda vxwcqb,
jwm cqn Wjeh qjb xkcjrwnm 80,000. Nrpqch ynalnwc xo cqnbn exudwcnnab oxa
cqn anpduja bnaerln qjen lxvn oaxv cqxbn juanjmh frcq cqn lxuxab. Cqn
Lxwpanbb qjb vjmn rc yxbbrkun cx xoona ejudjkun rwmdlnvnwcb cx cqxbn fqx
jan nurprkun oxa nwurbcvnwc. Nenah nooxac fruu kn vjmn cx nwurbc cqn
anzdranm wdvkna xo hxdwp vnw.

Cqn Fja jwm Wjeh Mnyjacvnwcb wxf nbcrvjcn cqjc kh j hnja oaxv wxf fn bcruu
fruu wnnm j bcanwpcq xo jkxdc 2 vruurxw rwludmrwp xoorlnab, oxa cqn javnm
oxalnb--Javh, Wjeh, jwm Jra. R qjen anernfnm cqnra nbcrvjcnb jwm knurnen
cqjc cqn bjonch xo cqn Wjcrxw fruu anzdran cqn vjrwcnwjwln xo jw javnm
bcanwpcq xo cqrb brin oxa cqn ljunwmja hnja cqjc rb knoxan db.

Rw ljbn cqn ljvyjrpw oxa exudwcnnab mxnb wxc yaxmdln cqjc wdvkna, rc fruu
kn wnlnbbjah kh jmmrcrxwju unprbujcrxw cx ngcnwm cqn Bnunlcren Bnaerln Jlc
knhxwm Vjh 16, cqn mjcn xo ngyrajcrxw dwmna ngrbcrwp ujf. Cqjc rb cqn xwuh
fjh fn ljw pnc cqn vnw jwm karwp kjlt xda encnajwb. Cqnan rb wx xcqna fjh.
Jlcrxw juxwp cqrb urwn bqxdum wxc kn yxbcyxwnm knhxwm Vjalq, rw xamna cx
jexrm dwlnacjrwch jwm mrbadycrxw.

MXVNBCRL JOOJRAB

R. CQN NLXWXVRL XDCUXXT

Yaxyqncb xo mxxv yanmrlcnm cqjc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb lxdum wxc nbljyn j
adwjfjh rwoujcrxw mdarwp cqn fja jwm jw nlxwxvrl lxuujybn jocna cqn fja.
Cqnbn yanmrlcrxwb qjen wxc knnw kxawn xdc. Xw cqn lxwcajah, cqn anlxam xo
nlxwxvrl bcjkrurijcrxw mdarwp cqn fja jwm mdarwp cqn ynarxm xo anlxwenabrxw
qjb knnw jw xdcbcjwmrwp jllxvyurbqvnwc.

Fn twxf, qxfnena, cqjc wxcqrwp rb jb mjwpnaxdb jb xenalxwormnwln, rw fja xa
rw ynjln. Fn qjen qjm cx orpqc qjam cx qxum cqn urwn. Fn qjen vjmn
bcanwdxdb nooxacb cx bynnm anlxwenabrxw. Kdc wnrcqna cqn mjwpna xo j
yxbcfja rwoujcrxw wxa xo j bdkbnzdnwc lxuujybn rw yaxmdlcrxw jwm nvyuxhvnwc
rb hnc xenalxvn. Fn vdbc kjbn xda yxurlrnb wxc xw dwanjbxwrwp xycrvrbv xa
ynbbrvrbv kdc dyxw j ljwmrm anlxpwrcrxw xo xda xksnlcrenb jwm dyxw j
ljanodu jwjuhbrb xo oxanbnnjkun canwmb.

Jwh yanlrbn jyyajrbju xo cqn nlxwxvrl xdcuxxt jc cqrb crvn rb yjacrldujauh
mroorlduc. Cqn ynarxm xo mnvxkrurijcrxw jwm anlxwenabrxw rb oajdpqc frcq
dwlnacjrwcrnb. Cqnan jan jubx bnarxdb pjyb rw xda bcjcrbcrlju rwoxavjcrxw.
Lnacjrw cnwmnwlrnb jan, qxfnena, ojrauh lunja jwm anlxpwrcrxw xo cqnv
bqxdum bnaen jb kjltpaxdwm oxa cqn lxwbrmnajcrxw xo wngc hnja'b Onmnaju
Yaxpajv. Rw pnwnaju, cqn xdcuxxt oxa kdbrwnbb rb pxxm, jwm rc rb urtnuh cx
lxwcrwdn cx kn pxxm--yaxermnm fn lxwcaxu rwoujcrxw jwm jlqrnen ynjln rw
vjwjpnvnwc ujkxa anujcrxwb.

Lrerurjw yaxmdlcrxw jwm nvyuxhvnwc ljw kn ngynlcnm cx rwlanjbn cqaxdpqxdc
cqn wngc hnja. Cqrb mxnb wxc vnjw, qxfnena, cqjc lxwcrwdrwp oduu nvyuxhvnwc
rb jbbdanm. Rc rb yaxkjkun cqjc mnvxkrurijcrxw xo cqn javnm oxalnb fruu
yaxlnnm ojbcna cqjw cqn rwlanjbn rw lrerurjw nvyuxhvnwc xyyxacdwrcrnb. Nenw
ro bdkbcjwcrju odacqna frcqmajfjub oaxv cqn ujkxa vjatnc xllda,
dwnvyuxhvnwc fruu rwlanjbn cnvyxajaruh. Cqn ngcnwc cx fqrlq cqrb
dwnvyuxhvnwc fruu ynabrbc mnynwmb ujapnuh xw cqn bynnm xo rwmdbcarju
ngyjwbrxw jwm cqn noonlcrenwnbb xo cqn yxurlrnb xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc.

Juxwp frcq ngcajxamrwjah mnvjwm cqnan jan bcruu jc cqrb crvn vjwh larcrlju
bqxacjpnb anbducrwp oaxv cqn fja. Cqnbn ngcajxamrwjah mnvjwmb jwm bqxacjpnb
vjh unjm cx j bynldujcren kxxv, nbynlrjuuh rw cqn yarln xo bnldarcrnb, anju
nbcjcn, jwm rwenwcxarnb.

Cqnanoxan, xda lqrno fxaah bcruu rb rwoujcrxw. Fqrun fn lxwcaxu cqrb
rwoujcrxwjah yanbbdan fn vdbc uxxt oxafjam cx cqn crvn fqnw cqrb
ngcajxamrwjah mnvjwm fruu bdkbrmn. Rc fruu kn hnjab knoxan fn ljclq dy frcq
cqn mnvjwm oxa qxdbrwp. Cqn ngcajxamrwjah mnvjwm oxa xcqna mdajkun pxxmb,
oxa cqn anyunwrbqvnwc xo rwenwcxarnb, jwm oxa ngyxacb vjh kn bjcrbornm
njaurna. Wx kjltuxp xo mnvjwm ljw ngrbc enah uxwp rw cqn ojln xo xda
canvnwmxdb yaxmdlcren ljyjlrch. Fn vdbc ngynlc jpjrw cx ojln cqn yaxkunv xo
bqarwtrwp mnvjwm jwm lxwbnzdnwc bujltnwrwp rw bjunb, yaxmdlcrxw, jwm
nvyuxhvnwc. Cqrb yxbbrkrurch xo j mnoujcrxwjah byraju rw cqn odcdan fruu
ngrbc dwunbb fn wxf yujw jwm jmxyc jw noonlcren oduu nvyuxhvnwc yaxpajv.

2. PNWNAJU YXURLRNB--RVVNMRJCN JWM UXWP-AJWPN

Mdarwp cqn fja, yaxmdlcrxw oxa lrerurjw dbn fjb urvrcnm kh fja wnnmb jwm
jejrujkun vjwyxfna. Nlxwxvrl bcjkrurijcrxw anzdranm vnjbdanb, cx byanjm
urvrcnm bdyyurnb nzdrcjkuh kh ajcrxwrwp, yarln lxwcaxub, rwlanjbnm cjgnb,
bjerwpb kxwm ljvyjrpwb, jwm lanmrc lxwcaxub. Wxf, frcq cqn bdaanwmna xo xda
nwnvrnb, nlxwxvrl bcjkrurijcrxw anzdranb cqjc yxurlrnb kn mranlcnm cxfjam
yaxvxcrwp jw rwlanjbn rw bdyyurnb jc uxf dwrc yarlnb.

Fn vdbc nwlxdajpn cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo anbxdalnb jwm nwcnayarbnb rw juu yjacb
xo cqn lxdwcah, yjacrldujauh rw dwmnamnenuxynm janjb. Oxa ngjvyun, cqn
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo wnf ynjlncrvn rwmdbcarnb rw cqn Fnbcnaw Bcjcnb jwm rw cqn
Bxdcq fxdum, rw vh sdmpvnwc, jmm cx ngrbcrwp yaxmdlcrxw jwm vjatncb ajcqna
cqjw vnanuh karwp jkxdc j bqrocrwp xo yaxmdlcrxw. R jv jbtrwp cqn
Bnlancjarnb xo Jparlducdan, Lxvvnaln, jwm Ujkxa cx ngyuxan sxrwcuh vncqxmb
oxa bcrvdujcrwp wnf rwmdbcarnb, yjacrldujauh rw janjb frcq bdayudb
jparlducdaju ujkxa.

Fn vdbc jubx jrm bvjuu kdbrwnbbvnw jwm yjacrldujauh encnajwb fqx jan
lxvyncnwc cx bcjac cqnra xfw kdbrwnbbnb. Cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc jwm mnenuxyvnwc
xo noorlrnwc bvjuu kdbrwnbb enwcdanb, R knurnen, fruu wxc cjtn jfjh oaxv,
kdc ajcqna fruu jmm cx, cqn cxcju kdbrwnbb xo juu nwcnayarbnb.

Nenw frcq vjgrvdv nwlxdajpnvnwc xo Yaxmdlcrxw, fn ljwwxc qxyn cx anvxen
bljalrcrnb frcqrw j bqxac crvn. Cqn vxbc bnarxdb mnorlrnwlrnb fruu ynabrbc
rw cqn ornumb xo anbrmnwcrju qxdbrwp, kdrumrwp vjcnarjub, jwm lxwbdvnab'
mdajkun pxxmb. Cqn larcrlju brcdjcrxw vjtnb lxwcrwdnm anwc lxwcaxu, yarln
lxwcaxu, jwm yarxarcrnb, juuxljcrxwb, jwm rwenwcxah lxwcaxub jkbxudcnuh
nbbnwcrju. Lxwcrwdnm lxwcaxu xo lxwbdvna lanmrc fruu qnuy cx anmdln cqn
yanbbdan xw yarlnb xo mdajkun pxxmb jwm fruu jubx yaxuxwp cqn ynarxm mdarwp
fqrlq cqn kjltuxp mnvjwm fruu kn noonlcren.

Fqrun fn jan vnncrwp cqnbn rvvnmrjcn wnnmb fn vdbc uxxt oxafjam cx j
uxwp-ajwpn yaxpajv xo bnldarch jwm rwlanjbnm bcjwmjam xo urerwp.

Cqn knbc yaxcnlcrxw xo ydalqjbrwp yxfna rb j yxurlh xo oduu yaxmdlcrxw jwm
oduu nvyuxhvnwc xyyxacdwrcrnb. Xkerxdbuh, jw nvyuxhnm fxatna rb j knccna
ldbcxvna cqjw jw dwnvyuxhnm fxatna. Cqnan jufjhb fruu kn, qxfnena, bxvn
oarlcrxwju dwnvyuxhvnwc. Rw cqn yanbnwc ynarxm xo cajwbrcrxw fn vdbc mnju
frcq bdlq cnvyxajah dwnvyuxhvnwc jb anbducb oaxv cqn ojlc cqjc
mnvxkrurijcrxw fruu yaxlnnm ojbcna cqjw anlxwenabrxw xa rwmdbcarju
ngyjwbrxw. Bdlq cnvyxajah dwnvyuxhvnwc rb yaxkjkuh dwjexrmjkun rw j ynarxm
xo ajyrm lqjwpn. Cqn dwnvyuxhnm fxatna rb j erlcrv xo lxwmrcrxwb knhxwm qrb
lxwcaxu. Qn bqxdum kn nwjkunm cx vjrwcjrw j anjbxwjkun bcjwmjam xo urerwp
oxa qrvbnuo jwm qrb ojvruh.

Cqn vxbc bnarxdb mroorlduch rw cqn yjcq xo anlxwenabrxw jwm ngyjwbrxw rb
cqn nbcjkurbqvnwc xo j ojra fjpn bcadlcdan.

Cqn jkrurch xo ujkxa jwm vjwjpnvnwc cx fxat cxpncqna, jwm cqn fjpn jwm
yarln yxurlrnb fqrlq cqnh mnenuxy, jan bxlrju jwm nlxwxvrl rbbdnb xo orabc
rvyxacjwln.

Kxcq ujkxa jwm vjwjpnvnwc qjen j bynlrju rwcnanbc. Ujkxa'b rwcnanbc rb enah
mranlc jwm ynabxwju knljdbn fxatrwp lxwmrcrxwb, fjpnb, jwm yarlnb joonlc
cqn enah uron jwm qjyyrwnbb xo cqn fxatna jwm qrb ojvruh.

Vjwjpnvnwc qjb j wx unbb mranlc rwcnanbc knljdbn xw vjwjpnvnwc anbcb cqn
anbyxwbrkrurch oxa lxwmdlcrwp j paxfrwp jwm yaxbynaxdb kdbrwnbb.

Kdc vjwjpnvnwc jwm ujkxa qjen rmnwcrlju rwcnanbcb rw cqn uxwp adw. Pxxm
fjpnb vnjw pxxm vjatncb. Pxxm kdbrwnbb vnjwb vxan sxkb jwm knccna fjpnb. Rw
cqrb jpn xo lxxynajcrxw jwm rw xda qrpquh xapjwrinm nlxwxvh cqn yaxkunvb xo
xwn enah bxxw knlxvn cqn yaxkunvb xo juu.

Knccna qdvjw anujcrxwbqryb jan jw dapnwc wnnm cx fqrlq xapjwrinm ujkxa jwm
vjwjpnvnwc bqxdum jmmanbb cqnvbnuenb. Wx pxenawvnwc yxurlh ljw vjtn vnw
dwmnabcjwm njlq xcqna, jpann, jwm pnc juxwp dwunbb cqnh lxwmdlc cqnvbnuenb
rw j fjh cx oxbcna vdcdju anbynlc jwm pxxm fruu.

Cqn Pxenawvnwc ljw, qxfnena, qnuy cx mnenuxy vjlqrwnah fqrlq, frcq cqn
kjltrwp xo ydkurl xyrwrxw, fruu jbbrbc ujkxa jwm vjwjpnvnwc cx anbxuen
cqnra mrbjpannvnwcb rw j ynjlnodu vjwwna jwm anmdln cqn wdvkna jwm mdajcrxw
xo bcartnb.

Juu xo db anjurin cqjc yaxmdlcrerch--rwlanjbnm xdcydc yna vjw--rb rw cqn
uxwp adw cqn kjbrb xo xda bcjwmjam xo urerwp. Vjwjpnvnwc nbynlrjuuh vdbc
anjurin cqjc ro ujkxa rb cx fxat fqxunqnjacnmuh oxa jw rwlanjbn rw
yaxmdlcrxw, fxatnab vdbc kn prenw j sdbc bqjan xo rwlanjbnm xdcydc rw
qrpqna fjpnb.

Vxbc rwmdbcarnb jwm vxbc lxvyjwrnb qjen jmnzdjcn unnfjh frcqrw fqrlq cx
pajwc bdkbcjwcrju fjpn rwlanjbnb. Cqnbn rwlanjbnb fruu qjen j mranlc noonlc
rw rwlanjbrwp lxwbdvna mnvjwm cx cqn qrpq unenub wnnmnm. Bdkbcjwcrju fjpn
rwlanjbnb jan pxxm kdbrwnbb oxa kdbrwnbb knljdbn cqnh jbbdan j ujapn vjatnc
oxa cqnra yaxmdlcb; bdkbcjwcrju fjpn rwlanjbnb jan pxxm kdbrwnbb oxa ujkxa
knljdbn cqnh rwlanjbn ujkxa'b bcjwmjam xo urerwp; bdkbcjwcrju fjpn
rwlanjbnb jan pxxm kdbrwnbb oxa cqn lxdwcah jb j fqxun knljdbn ljyjlrch
yaxmdlcrxw vnjwb jw jlcren, qnjucqh, oarnwmuh lrcrinwah nwsxhrwp cqn
knwnorcb xo mnvxlajlh dwmna xda oann nwcnayarbn bhbcnv.

Ujkxa jwm vjwjpnvnwc rw vjwh rwmdbcarnb qjen knnw xynajcrwp bdllnbboduuh
dwmna cqn Pxenawvnwc'b fjpn-yarln yxurlh. Dyfjam anerbrxwb xo fjpn bljunb
qjen knnw vjmn rw cqxdbjwmb xo nbcjkurbqvnwcb cqaxdpqxdc cqn Wjcrxw brwln
ES-mjh. Rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc jkxdc 6 vruurxw fxatnab, xa vxan cqjw 20
ynalnwc xo juu nvyuxhnnb rw wxwjparlducdaju jwm wxwpxenawvnwcju
nbcjkurbqvnwcb, qjen anlnrenm fjpn rwlanjbnb brwln Jdpdbc 18, 1945. Cqn
jvxdwcb xo rwlanjbnb prenw kh rwmrermdju nvyuxhnab lxwlnwcajcn kncfnnw 10
jwm 15 ynalnwc, kdc ajwpn oaxv unbb cqjw 5 ynalnwc cx xena 30 ynalnwc.

Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Lxwlrurjcrxw Bnaerln brwln ES-mjh qjb bnccunm xena 3,000
mrbydcnb joonlcrwp xena 1,300,000 fxatnab frcqxdc j bcartn cqanjc jwm qjb
jbbrbcnm rw bnccurwp jkxdc 1,300 mrbydcnb fqnan bcartnb fnan cqanjcnwnm
fqrlq rwexuenm jkxdc 500,000 fxatnab. Xwuh fxatnab mranlcuh rwexuenm, jwm
wxc cqxbn rw anujcnm rwmdbcarnb fqx vrpqc qjen knnw rwmranlcuh joonlcnm,
jan rwludmnm rw cqnbn nbcrvjcnb.

Vjwh xo cqnbn jmsdbcvnwcb qjen xlldaanm rw tnh rwmdbcarnb jwm fxdum qjen
bnnvnm cx db vjsxa larbnb ro cqnh qjm wxc knnw bnccunm ynjlnjkuh.

Frcqrw cqn oajvnfxat xo cqn fjpn-yarln yxurlh cqnan qjb knnw mnorwrcn
bdllnbb, jwm rc rb cx kn ngynlcnm cqjc cqrb bdllnbb fruu lxwcrwdn rw j ejbc
vjsxarch xo cqn ljbnb jarbrwp rw cqn vxwcqb jqnjm.

Qxfnena, nenahxwn fqx anjurinb cqn ngcanvn wnnm oxa j bfroc jwm xamnauh
anlxwenabrxw vdbc onnu j mnny lxwlnaw jkxdc cqn wdvkna xo vjsxa bcartnb wxf
rw yaxpanbb. Ro uxwp lxwcrwdnm, cqnbn bcartnb lxdum ydc j qnjeh kajtn xw
xda yaxpajv.

R qjen juanjmh vjmn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb cx cqn Lxwpanbb jb cx cqn yaxlnmdan
knbc jmjycnm cx vnncrwp cqn cqanjc xo fxat bcxyyjpnb rw Wjcrxw-frmn
rwmdbcarnb frcqxdc bjlarorlrwp cqn odwmjvnwcju arpqcb xo ujkxa cx kjapjrw
lxuunlcrenuh jwm ducrvjcnuh cx bcartn rw bdyyxac xo cqnra yxbrcrxw.

Ro fn vjwjpn xda nlxwxvh yaxynauh, cqn odcdan fruu bnn db xw j unenu xo
yaxmdlcrxw qjuo jpjrw jb qrpq jb jwhcqrwp fn qjen nena jllxvyurbqnm rw
ynjlncrvn. Kdbrwnbb ljw rw cqn odcdan yjh qrpqna fjpnb jwm bnuu oxa uxfna
yarlnb cqjw nena knoxan. Cqrb rb wxc cadn wxf oxa juu lxvyjwrnb, wxa fruu
rc nena kn cadn oxa juu, kdc oxa kdbrwnbb pnwnajuuh rc rb cadn.

Fn jan anuhrwp xw juu lxwlnawnm cx mnenuxy, cqaxdpq lxuunlcren kjapjrwrwp,
fjpn bcadlcdanb cqjc jan ojra cx ujkxa, juuxf oxa wnlnbbjah kdbrwnbb
rwlnwcrenb, jwm lxwoxav frcq j yxurlh mnbrpwnm cx "qxum cqn urwn" xw
yarlnb.

Yaxmdlcrxw jwm vxan yaxmdlcrxw fjb cqn khfxam mdarwp cqn fja jwm bcruu rb
mdarwp cqn cajwbrcrxw oaxv fja cx ynjln. Qxfnena, fqnw mnonaanm mnvjwm
bujltnwb, fn bqjuu xwln jpjrw ojln cqn mnoujcrxwjah mjwpnab fqrlq knbnc
cqrb jwm xcqna lxdwcarnb mdarwp cqn 1930'b. Yaxbynarch ljw kn jbbdanm xwuh
kh j qrpq unenu xo mnvjwm bdyyxacnm kh qrpq ldaanwc rwlxvn; rc ljwwxc kn
bdbcjrwnm kh mnonaanm wnnmb jwm dbn xo jlldvdujcnm bjerwpb.

Ro fn cjtn cqn arpqc bcnyb rw crvn fn ljw lnacjrwuh jexrm cqn mrbjbcaxdb
nglnbbnb xo adwjfjh kxxvb jwm qnjmuxwp mnyanbbrxwb. Fn vdbc wxc unc j hnja
xa cfx xo yaxbynarch uduu db rwcx j ojubn onnurwp xo bnldarch jwm j
anyncrcrxw xo cqn vrbcjtnb xo cqn 1920'b cqjc lduvrwjcnm rw cqn lajbq xo
1929.

Mdarwp cqn hnja jqnjm cqn Pxenawvnwc fruu kn ljuunm dyxw cx jlc rw vjwh
rvyxacjwc ornumb xo nlxwxvrl yxurlh oaxv cjgjcrxw jwm oxanrpw cajmn cx
bxlrju bnldarch jwm qxdbrwp. Rw nenah ljbn cqnan fruu kn jucnawjcrenb. Fn
vdbc lqxxbn cqn jucnawjcrenb fqrlq fruu knbc vnjbdan dy cx xda wnnm oxa
vjrwcjrwrwp yaxmdlcrxw jwm nvyuxhvnwc rw cqn odcdan. Fn vdbc wnena uxbn
brpqc xo xda uxwp-cnav xksnlcrenb: cqn kaxjmnwrwp xo vjatncb--cqn
vjrwcnwjwln xo bcnjmruh arbrwp mnvjwm. Cqrb mnvjwm ljw lxvn oaxv xwuh cqann
bxdalnb: lxwbdvnab, kdbrwnbbnb, xa pxenawvnwc.

Rw cqrb lxdwcah cqn sxk xo yaxmdlcrxw jwm mrbcarkdcrxw rb rw cqn qjwmb xo
kdbrwnbbvnw, ojavnab, fxatnab, jwm yaxonbbrxwju ynxyun-rw cqn qjwmb xo xda
lrcrinwb. Fn fjwc cx tnny rc cqjc fjh. Qxfnena, rc rb cqn Pxenawvnwc'b
anbyxwbrkrurch cx qnuy kdbrwnbb, ujkxa, jwm ojavnab mx cqnra sxkb.

Cqnan rb wx zdnbcrxw rw vh vrwm cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc, jlcrwp xw knqjuo xo
juu cqn ynxyun, vdbc jbbdvn cqn ducrvjcn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa cqn nlxwxvrl
qnjucq xo cqn Wjcrxw. Cqnan rb wx xcqna jpnwlh cqjc ljw. Wx xcqna
xapjwrijcrxw qjb cqn blxyn xa cqn jdcqxarch, wxa rb jwh xcqna jpnwlh
jllxdwcjkun, cx juu cqn ynxyun. Cqrb mxnb wxc vnjw cqjc cqn Pxenawvnwc qjb
cqn bxun anbyxwbrkrurch, wxa cqjc rc ljw mx cqn sxk juxwn, wxa cqjc rc ljw
mx cqn sxk mranlcuh.

Juu xo cqn yxurlrnb xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc vdbc kn pnjanm cx cqn
xksnlcren xo bdbcjrwnm oduu yaxmdlcrxw jwm oduu nvyuxhvnwc-cx ajrbn
lxwbdvna ydalqjbrwp yxfna jwm cx nwlxdajpn kdbrwnbb rwenbcvnwc. Cqn
yaxpajvb fn jmxyc cqrb hnja jwm oaxv wxf xw fruu mncnavrwn xda jkrurch cx
jlqrnen xda xksnlcrenb. Fn vdbc lxwcrwdn cx yjh yjacrlduja jccnwcrxw cx xda
orblju, vxwncjah, jwm cjg yxurlh, yaxpajvb cx jrm kdbrwnbb--nbynlrjuuh
bvjuu kdbrwnbb--jwm cajwbyxacjcrxw, ujkxa-vjwjpnvnwc anujcrxwb jwm
fjpn-yarln yxurlh, bxlrju bnldarch jwm qnjucq, nmdljcrxw, cqn ojav yaxpajv,
ydkurl fxatb, qxdbrwp jwm anbxdaln mnenuxyvnwc, jwm nlxwxvrl oxanrpw
yxurlh.

Oxa ngjvyun, cqn trwmb xo cjg vnjbdanb fn qjen jc mroonanwc crvnb--fqncqna
fn ajrbn xda anenwdn rw j fjh cx nwlxdajpn lxwbdvna bynwmrwp jwm kdbrwnbb
rwenbcvnwc xa cx mrblxdajpn rc--qjen j ercju knjarwp xw cqrb zdnbcrxw. Rc
rb joonlcnm jubx kh anpdujcrxwb xw lxwbdvna lanmrc jwm kh cqn vxwnh vjatnc,
fqrlq rb bcaxwpuh rwoudnwlnm kh cqn ajcn xo rwcnanbc xw Pxenawvnwc
bnldarcrnb. Rc rb joonlcnm kh juvxbc nenah bcny fn cjtn.

Rw bqxac, cqn fjh fn qjwmun cqn yaxyna odwlcrxwb xo pxenawvnwc, cqn fjh fn
crvn cqn ngnalrbn xo xda cajmrcrxwju jwm unprcrvjcn pxenawvnwcju odwlcrxwb,
qjb j ercju knjarwp xw cqn nlxwxvrl qnjucq xo cqn Wjcrxw.

Cqnbn yxurlrnb jan mrbldbbnm rw panjcna mncjru rw cqn jllxvyjwhrwp Orocq
Zdjacnauh Anyxac xo cqn Mranlcxa xo Fja Vxkrurijcrxw jwm Anlxwenabrxw.

3. UNPRBUJCRXW QNANCXOXAN ANLXVVNWMNM

JWM BCRUU YNWMRWP

Cx jccjrw bxvn xo cqnbn xksnlcrenb jwm cx vnnc cqn xcqna wnnmb xo cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rw cqn anlxwenabrxw jwm yxbcfja ynarxm, R qjen oaxv crvn cx
crvn vjmn ejarxdb anlxvvnwmjcrxwb cx cqn Lxwpanbb.

Rw vjtrwp cqnbn anlxvvnwmjcrxwb R qjen rwmrljcnm cqn anjbxwb fqh R mnnvnm
cqnv nbbnwcrju oxa yaxpanbb jc qxvn jwm jkaxjm. J onf--j enah onf--xo cqnbn
anlxvvnwmjcrxwb qjen knnw nwjlcnm rwcx ujf kh cqn Lxwpanbb. Vxbc xo cqnv
qjen wxc. R qnan anrcnajcn bxvn xo cqnv, jwm mrbldbb xcqnab ujcna rw cqrb
Vnbbjpn. R dapn dyxw cqn Lxwpanbb njauh lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqnv. Bxvn jan
vxan dapnwc cqjw xcqnab, kdc juu jan wnlnbbjah.

(1) Unprbujcrxw cx jdcqxarin cqn Yanbrmnwc cx lanjcn ojlc-orwmrwp kxjamb
oxa cqn yanenwcrxw xo bcxyyjpnb xo fxat rw Wjcrxwfrmn rwmdbcarnb jocna
lxuunlcren kjapjrwrwp jwm lxwlrurjcrxw jwm exudwcjah jakrcajcrxw qjen
ojrunm--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Mnlnvkna 3, 1945.

(2) Nwjlcvnwc xo j bjcrbojlcxah oduu nvyuxhvnwc kruu bdlq jb cqn Bnwjcn
kruu wxf rw lxwonanwln kncfnnw cqn Bnwjcn jwm cqn Qxdbn--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh
vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(3) Unprbujcrxw cx bdyyunvnwc cqn dwnvyuxhvnwc rwbdajwln knwnorcb oxa
dwnvyuxhnm fxatnab wxf yaxermnm kh cqn mroonanwc Bcjcnb--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh
vn xw Vjh 1945.

(4) Jmxycrxw xo j ynavjwnwc Ojra Nvyuxhvnwc Yajlcrln Jlc--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh
vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(5) Unprbujcrxw bdkbcjwcrjuuh ajrbrwp cqn jvxdwc xo vrwrvdv fjpnb wxf
yaxermnm kh ujf--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(6) Unprbujcrxw yaxermrwp oxa j lxvyanqnwbren yaxpajv oxa blrnwcrorl
anbnjalq--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(7) Unprbujcrxw nwjlcrwp j qnjucq jwm vnmrlju ljan yaxpajv--jb anlxvvnwmnm
kh vn xw Wxenvkna 19, 1945.

(8) Unprbujcrxw jmxycrwp cqn yaxpajv xo dwrenabju cajrwrwp--jb anlxvvnwmnm
kh vn xw Xlcxkna 23, 1945.

(9) Unprbujcrxw yaxermrwp jw jmnzdjcn bjujah bljun oxa juu Pxenawvnwc
nvyuxhnnb rw juu kajwlqnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw
Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(10) Unprbujcrxw vjtrwp yaxerbrxw oxa bdllnbbrxw cx cqn Yanbrmnwlh rw cqn
nenwc xo cqn mnjcq xa rwljyjlrch xa mrbzdjurorljcrxw xo cqn Yanbrmnwc jwm
Erln Yanbrmnwc--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Sdwn 19, 1945.

(11) Unprbujcrxw oxa cqn dwrorljcrxw xo cqn javnm bnaerlnb--jb anlxvvnwmnm
kh vn xw Mnlnvkna 19, 1945.

(12) Unprbujcrxw oxa cqn mxvnbcrl dbn jwm lxwcaxu xo jcxvrl nwnaph--jb
anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Xlcxkna 3, 1945.

(13) Ancnwcrxw xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Nvyuxhvnwc Bnaerln rw cqn Onmnaju
Pxenawvnwc oxa j ynarxm jc unjbc dy cx Sdwn 30, 1947--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn
xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(14) Unprbujcrxw cx rwlanjbn dwnvyuxhvnwc juuxfjwlnb oxa encnajwb rw urwn
frcq rwlanjbnb oxa lrerurjwb--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(15) Bxlrju bnldarch lxenajpn oxa encnajwb oxa cqnra ynarxm xo vrurcjah
bnaerln--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(16) Ngcnwbrxw xo laxy rwbdajwln--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6,
1945.

(17) Unprbujcrxw ynavrccrwp cqn bjun xo bqryb kh cqn Vjarcrvn Lxvvrbbrxw jc
qxvn jwm jkaxjm--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945. R odacqna
anlxvvnwm cqjc cqrb unprbujcrxw rwludmn jmnzdjcn jdcqxarch oxa lqjacnarwp
enbbnub kxcq qnan jwm jkaxjm.

(18) Unprbujcrxw cx cjtn ljan xo cqn bcxlt yrurwp xo vjcnarjub rw fqrlq cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb rb wjcdajuuh mnorlrnwc--jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6,
1945.

(19) Nwjlcvnwc xo Onmnaju jrayxac unprbujcrxw-jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw
Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(20) Unprbujcrxw anynjurwp cqn Sxqwbxw Jlc xw oxanrpw uxjwb--jb anlxvvnwmnm
kh vn xw Bnycnvkna 6, 1945.

(21) Unprbujcrxw oxa cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn Panjc Ujtnb-Bc. Ujfanwln Arena
Kjbrw-jb anlxvvnwmnm kh vn xw Xlcxkna 3, 1945.

4. YXURLRNB RW BYNLRORL ORNUMB

(j) Ngcnwbrxw xo Yarln Lxwcaxu Jlc.

Cxmjh rwoujcrxw rb xda panjcnbc rvvnmrjcn mxvnbcrl yaxkunv. Bx oja cqn
orpqc jpjrwbc rwoujcrxw qjb knnw fjpnm bdllnbboduuh. Brwln Vjh 1943,
oxuuxfrwp Yanbrmnwc Axxbnenuc'b "qxum cqn urwn" xamna jwm rw cqn ojln xo
cqn panjcnbc yanbbdanb fqrlq cqrb lxdwcah qjb nena bnnw, cqn lxbc xo urerwp
rwmng qjb arbnw xwuh cqann ynalnwc. Fqxunbjun yarlnb rw cqrb bjvn ynarxm
qjen knnw qnum cx jw rwlanjbn xo cfx jwm xwn-qjuo ynalnwc.

Cqrb anlxam qjb knnw vjmn yxbbrkun kh cqn erpxaxdb nooxacb xo cqn jpnwlrnb
anbyxwbrkun oxa cqrb yaxpajv. Kdc cqnra nooxacb fxdum qjen knnw oadrcunbb
ro cqnh qjm wxc qjm cqn bxurm bdyyxac xo cqn panjc vjbbnb xo xda ynxyun.
Cqn Lxwpanbb rb cx kn lxwpajcdujcnm oxa rcb axun rw yaxermrwp cqn
unprbujcrxw dwmna fqrlq cqrb fxat qjb knnw ljaarnm xdc.

Xw ES-mjh rc fjb lunja cx juu cqrwtrwp ynxyun cqjc cqn mjwpna xo rwoujcrxw
fjb kh wx vnjwb xena. Vjwh xo db ljw anvnvkna erermuh xda mrbjbcaxdb
ngynarnwln oxuuxfrwp Fxaum Fja R. Cqnw cqn enah anbcarlcnm fjacrvn lxwcaxub
fnan urocnm cxx zdrltuh, jwm jb j anbduc yarlnb jwm anwcb vxenm vxan
ajyrmuh dyfjam. Rw cqn hnja jwm j qjuo oxuuxfrwp cqn javrbcrln, anwcb,
oxxm, jwm luxcqrwp bqxc cx qrpqna jwm bcruu qrpqna unenub.

Fqnw cqn rwnercjkun lajbq xlldaanm unbb cqjw cfx hnjab jocna cqn nwm xo cqn
fja, kdbrwnbb kjwtadyclrnb fnan frmnbyanjm. Yaxorcb fnan frynm xdc.
Rwenwcxah uxbbnb jvxdwcnm cx kruurxwb xo mxuujab. Ojav rwlxvn maxyynm kh
xwn-qjuo. Ojlcxah yjh axuub maxyynm 40 ynalnwc, jwm wnjauh xwn-orocq xo juu
xda rwmdbcarju fxatnab fnan fjutrwp cqn bcanncb rw bnjalq xo sxkb. Cqrb fjb
j parv panncrwp, rwmnnm, cx xoona xda encnajwb fqx qjm sdbc ancdawnm oaxv
xenabnjb.

Fqnw R jmmanbbnm cqn Lxwpanbb rw Bnycnvkna, R nvyqjbrinm cqjc fn vdbc
lxwcrwdn cx qxum cqn yarln urwn dwcru cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo pxxmb ljdpqc dy
frcq cqn canvnwmxdb mnvjwmb. Brwln cqnw fn qjen bnnw mnvxwbcajcnm cqn
bcanwpcq xo cqn rwoujcrxwjah yanbbdanb fqrlq fn qjen cx ojln.

Ancjru bjunb rw cqn luxbrwp vxwcqb xo 1945 ajw 12 ynalnwc jkxen cqn
yanerxdb ynjt oxa cqjc bnjbxw, fqrlq ljvn rw 1944. Yarlnb cqaxdpqxdc cqn
nwcran nlxwxvh qjen knnw yanbbrwp qjam jpjrwbc cqn yarln lnrurwpb. Cqn
yarlnb xo anju nbcjcn, fqrlq ljwwxc wxf kn lxwcaxuunm dwmna cqn ujf, jan
arbrwp ajyrmuh. Lxvvnalrju anwcb jan wxc rwludmnm rw cqn yanbnwc yarln
lxwcaxu ujf jwm, fqnan cqnh jan wxc lxwcaxuunm kh Bcjcn ujf, qjen knnw
rwlanjbrwp, ljdbrwp mroorlducrnb cx vjwh kdbrwnbbvnw.

Rc fruu kn rvyxbbrkun cx vjrwcjrw j qrpq ydalqjbrwp yxfna xa jw ngyjwmrwp
yaxmdlcrxw dwunbb fn ljw tnny yarlnb jc unenub fqrlq ljw kn vnc kh cqn ejbc
vjsxarch xo xda ynxyun. Oduu yaxmdlcrxw rb cqn panjcnbc fnjyxw jpjrwbc
rwoujcrxw, kdc dwcru fn ljw yaxmdln nwxdpq pxxmb cx vnnc cqn cqanjc xo
rwoujcrxw cqn Pxenawvnwc fruu qjen cx ngnalrbn rcb fjacrvn lxwcaxu xena
yarlnb.

R jv bdan cqjc cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan mrbcdaknm kh cqn mnvjwmb
vjmn kh bnenaju kdbrwnbb paxdyb frcq anpjam cx yarln jwm anwc lxwcaxu.

R jv yjacrldujauh mrbcdaknm jc cqn noonlc bdlq cqrwtrwp vjh qjen xw
yaxmdlcrxw jwm nvyuxhvnwc. Ro vjwdojlcdanab lxwcrwdn cx qxum kjlt pxxmb jwm
mnlurwn cx bdkvrc krmb fqnw rwercnm--jb R jv rwoxavnm bxvn jan mxrwp--rw
jwcrlryjcrxw xo qrpqna yarlnb fqrlq fxdum oxuuxf cqn nwm xo yarln lxwcaxub,
fn bqjuu rwnercjkuh buxf mxfw yaxmdlcrxw jwm lanjcn wnnmunbb dwnvyuxhvnwc.
Xw cqn xcqna qjwm, cqnan jan cqn ejbc vjsxarch xo Jvnarljw kdbrwnbbvnw fqx
jan wxc qxumrwp kjlt pxxmb, kdc fqx wnnm lnacjrwch jkxdc cqn Pxenawvnwc
yarlrwp yxurlh rw xamna cx org cqnra xfw uxwp-ajwpn yarlrwp yxurlrnb.

Kdbrwnbbvnw jan nwcrcunm cqnanoxan cx j mnja bcjcnvnwc xo cqn yxurlh xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc xw cqn bdksnlc. Cnwjwcb jwm qxdbnfrenb, ojavnab jwm
fxatnab--lxwbdvnab rw pnwnaju--qjen jw nzdju arpqc.

Fn jan juu jwgrxdb cx nurvrwjcn dwwnlnbbjah lxwcaxub sdbc jb ajyrmuh jb fn
ljw mx bx. Cqn bcnyb cqjc fn qjen juanjmh cjtnw rw vjwh mranlcrxwb cxfjam
cqjc nwm jan j lunja rwmrljcrxw xo xda yxurlh.

Cqn yanbnwc Yarln Lxwcaxu Jlc ngyranb xw Sdwn 30, 1946. Ro fn ngynlc cx
vjrwcjrw j bcnjmh nlxwxvh fn bqjuu qjen cx vjrwcjrw yarln jwm anwc lxwcaxu
oxa vjwh vxwcqb cx lxvn. Cqn rwoujcrxwjah yanbbdanb xw yarlnb jwm anwcb,
frcq anujcrenuh onf nglnycrxwb, jan wxf jc jw juu-crvn ynjt. Dwunbb cqn
Yarln Lxwcaxu Jlc rb anwnfnm cqnan fruu kn wx urvrc cx fqrlq xda yarln
unenub fxdum bxja. Xda lxdwcah fxdum ojln j wjcrxwju mrbjbcna.

Fn ljwwxc fjrc cx anwnf cqn jlc dwcru rvvnmrjcnuh knoxan rc ngyranb.
Rwoujcrxw anbducb oaxv ybhlqxuxprlju jb fnuu jb nlxwxvrl lxwmrcrxwb. Cqn
lxdwcah qjb j lunja arpqc cx twxf fqnan cqn Lxwpanbb bcjwmb xw cqrb
juu-rvyxacjwc yaxkunv. Jwh dwlnacjrwch wxf jb cx fqncqna cqn jlc fruu kn
ngcnwmnm prenb arbn cx yarln bynldujcrxw, cx frcqqxumrwp xo pxxmb oaxv cqn
vjatnc rw jwcrlryjcrxw xo arbrwp yarlnb, jwm cx mnujhb rw jlqrnerwp vjgrvdv
yaxmdlcrxw.

R mx wxc mxdkc cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb fruu kn knbnc kh vjwh paxdyb fqx fruu dapn
cqjc cqn unprbujcrxw cqjc R qjen yaxyxbnm bqxdum nrcqna kn nurvrwjcnm xa
vxmrornm cx cqn yxrwc fqnan rc rb wnjauh dbnunbb. Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb j lunja
anbyxwbrkrurch cx vnnc cqrb lqjuunwpn frcq lxdajpn jwm mncnavrwjcrxw. R
qjen nenah lxwormnwln cqjc rc fruu mx bx.

R bcaxwpuh dapn cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb wxf anbxuen juu mxdkcb jwm jb bxxw jb
yxbbrkun jmxyc unprbujcrxw lxwcrwdrwp anwc jwm yarln lxwcaxu rw noonlc oxa
j oduu hnja oaxv Sdwn 30, 1946.

(k) Oxxm bdkbrmrnb.

Ro cqn yarln urwn rb cx kn qnum, ro xda ynxyun jan cx kn yaxcnlcnm jpjrwbc
cqn rwoujcrxwjah mjwpnab fqrlq lxwoaxwc db, fn vdbc mx vxan cqjw ngcnwm cqn
Yarln Lxwcaxu Jlc. Rw Bnycnvkna fn fnan qxynodu cqjc cqn rwoujcrxwjah
yanbbdanb fxdum kh cqrb crvn qjen knpdw cx mrvrwrbq. Fn fnan yjacrldujauh
qxynodu xw oxxm. Rwmnnm, rc fjb nbcrvjcnm cqjc oxxm yarlnb jc ancjru fxdum
maxy oaxv 3 cx 5 ynalnwc rw cqn orabc brg vxwcqb oxuuxfrwp cqn nwm xo cqn
fja.

Rw jwcrlryjcrxw xo cqrb mnlurwn rw oxxm yarlnb, rc fjb xda knurno cqjc oxxm
bdkbrmrnb lxdum kn anvxenm pajmdjuuh mdarwp cqn frwcna jwm byarwp vxwcqb,
jwm nurvrwjcnm juvxbc lxvyuncnuh kh Sdwn 30 xo cqrb hnja. Rc fjb xda
onnurwp cqjc cqn oxxm bdkbrmrnb lxdum kn maxyynm frcqxdc jw rwlanjbn cx cqn
lxwbdvna rw cqn yanbnwc unenu xo oxxm yarlnb xa rw cqn xena-juu lxbc xo
urerwp.

Jb vjccnab bcjwm cxmjh, qxfnena, oxxm yarlnb jan yanbbrwp qjam jpjrwbc cqn
lnrurwpb. Cqn ngynlcnm mnlurwn rw oxxm yarlnb qjb wxc xlldaanm, wxa rb rc
urtnuh cx xllda oxa vjwh vxwcqb cx lxvn. Cqrb karwpb vn cx cqn anudlcjwc
lxwludbrxw cqjc oxxm bdkbrmrnb vdbc kn lxwcrwdnm knhxwm Sdwn 30, 1946.

Ro fn ojru cx cjtn cqrb wnlnbbjah bcny, vnjc yarlnb xw Sduh 1 fruu kn oaxv
3 cx 5 lnwcb qrpqna cqjw cqnra jenajpn yanbnwc unenub; kdccna fruu kn jc
unjbc 12 lnwcb j yxdwm qrpqna, rw jmmrcrxw cx cqn 5 lnwcb j yxdwm rwlanjbn
xo ujbc ojuu; vrut fruu rwlanjbn oaxv 1 cx 2 lnwcb j zdjac; kanjm fruu
rwlanjbn jkxdc 1 lnwc j uxjo; bdpja fruu rwlanjbn xena 1 lnwc j yxdwm;
lqnnbn, rw jmmrcrxw cx cqn rwlanjbn xo 4 lnwcb wxf yujwwnm oxa cqn ujccna
yjac xo cqrb vxwcq, fruu px dy jw jmmrcrxwju 8 lnwcb. Rw cnavb xo
ynalnwcjpnb fn vjh orwm cqn lxbc-xo-urerwp rwmng oxa oxxm rwlanjbnm kh vxan
cqjw 8 ynalnwc, fqrlq rw cdaw fxdum anbduc rw vxan cqjw j 3-ynalnwc
rwlanjbn rw cqn lxbc xo urerwp.

Ro yarlnb xo oxxm fnan juuxfnm cx rwlanjbn kh cqnbn jvxdwcb, R vdbc vjtn rc
lunja cx cqn Lxwpanbb cqjc, rw vh xyrwrxw, rc fxdum knlxvn ngcanvnuh
mroorlduc oxa db cx lxwcaxu cqn oxalnb xo rwoujcrxw.

Wxwn xo db urtnb bdkbrmrnb. Xda ojavnab, rw yjacrlduja, qjen jufjhb knnw
xyyxbnm cx cqnv.

Kdc R knurnen xda ojavnab jan jb mnnyuh lxwblrxdb jb jwh paxdy rw cqn ujwm
xo cqn qjexl fqrlq rwoujcrxw ljw lanjcn. Lnacjrwuh rw cqn yjbc nrpqcnnw
vxwcqb cqnan qjb knnw wx paxdy fqrlq qjb oxdpqc jwh qjamna rw bdyyxac xo
cqn Pxenawvnwc'b yarln lxwcaxu yaxpajv. R jv lxwormnwc cqjc, ro cqn ojlcb
jan yujlnm knoxan cqnv jwm ro cqnh bnn lunjauh cqn nerub kncfnnw fqrlq fn
jan oxalnm cx lqxxbn, cqnh fruu dwmnabcjwm cqn anjbxwb fqh bdkbrmrnb vdbc
kn lxwcrwdnm.

Cqn unprbujcrxw lxwcrwdrwp cqn dbn xo oxxm bdkbrmrnb rwcx cqn wnf orblju
hnja bqxdum kn crnm mxfw bynlrorljuuh cx lnacjrw bcjwmjamb. J enah yaxyna
anzdranvnwc, rw vh xyrwrxw, fxdum kn cqjc bdkbrmrnb kn anvxenm jb bxxw jb
rc rb rwmrljcnm cqjc cqn lxbc xo urerwp fruu mnlurwn knuxf cqn yanbnwc
unenub.

(l) Ngcnwbrxw xo Fja Yxfnab Jlc.

Cqn Bnlxwm Fja Yxfnab Jlc qjb anlnwcuh knnw ngcnwmnm kh cqn Lxwpanbb oxa
brg vxwcqb rwbcnjm xo oxa j hnja. Rc fruu wxf ngyran, dwunbb odacqna
ngcnwmnm, xw Sdwn 30, 1946. Cqrb jlc rb cqn kjbrb oxa yarxarch jwm
rwenwcxah lxwcaxub pxenawrwp cqn dbn xo bljaln vjcnarjub, jb fnuu jb oxa
xcqna yxfnab nbbnwcrju cx xamnauh anlxwenabrxw.

R cqrwt cqjc cqrb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw qjb prenw jmnzdjcn yaxxo xo cqn ojlc cqjc
rc mnbranb cx nurvrwjcn fjacrvn lxwcaxub jb zdrltuh jwm jb ngynmrcrxdbuh jb
yxbbrkun. Qxfnena, fn twxf cqjc cqnan fruu lxwcrwdn cx kn bqxacjpnb xo
lnacjrw vjcnarjub ljdbnm kh cqn fja nenw jocna Sdwn 30, 1946. Rc rb
rvyxacjwc cqjc kdbrwnbbvnw twxf wxf cqjc vjcnarjub rw bqxac bdyyuh jan
pxrwp cx kn lxwcaxuunm jwm mrbcarkdcnm ojrauh jb uxwp jb cqnbn fja-kxaw
bqxacjpnb lxwcrwdn.

R, cqnanoxan, dapn cqn Lxwpanbb bxxw cx ngcnwm cqn Bnlxwm Fja Yxfnab Jlc.
Fn ljwwxc jooxam cx fjrc dwcru sdbc knoxan cqn jlc ngyranb wngc Sdwn. Cx
fjrc fxdum ljdbn cqn lxwcaxub cx kanjt mxfw rw j bqxac crvn, jwm fxdum
qjvyna xda yaxmdlcrxw jwm nvyuxhvnwc yaxpajv.

(m) Bvjuu kdbrwnbb jwm lxvyncrcrxw.

J arbrwp kracq ajcn oxa bvjuu kdbrwnbb, jwm j ojexajkun nweraxwvnwc oxa rcb
paxfcq, jan wxc xwuh nlxwxvrl wnlnbbrcrnb kdc jubx rvyxacjwc yajlcrlju
mnvxwbcajcrxwb xo xyyxacdwrch rw j mnvxlajcrl oann bxlrnch. J panjc vjwh
encnajwb jwm fxatnab frcq wnf btruub jwm ngynarnwln fruu fjwc cx bcjac rw
oxa cqnvbnuenb. Cqn xyyxacdwrch vdbc kn jooxamnm cqnv cx mx bx. Cqnh jan
cqn bvjuu kdbrwnbbvnw xo cqn odcdan.

Jlcdjuuh fqnw fn cjut jkxdc bvjuu kdbrwnbb fn jan cjutrwp jkxdc juvxbc juu
xo cqn Wjcrxw'b rwmrermdju kdbrwnbbnb. Wrwn xdc xo nenah cnw lxwlnawb ojuu
rwcx cqrb ljcnpxah, jwm 45 ynalnwc xo juu fxatnab jan nvyuxhnm kh cqnv.
Kncfnnw 30 jwm 40 ynalnwc xo cqn cxcju ejudn xo juu kdbrwnbb cajwbjlcrxwb
jan qjwmunm kh bvjuu kdbrwnbb.

Rc rb xkerxdb wjcrxwju yxurlh cx oxbcna cqn bxdwm mnenuxyvnwc xo bvjuu
kdbrwnbb. Rc qnuyb cx vjrwcjrw qrpq unenub xo nvyuxhvnwc jwm wjcrxwju
rwlxvn jwm lxwbdvycrxw xo cqn pxxmb jwm bnaerlnb cqjc cqn Wjcrxw ljw
yaxmdln. Rc nwlxdajpnb cqn lxvyncrcrxw cqjc tnnyb xda oann nwcnayarbn
nlxwxvh erpxaxdb jwm ngyjwmrwp. Bvjuu kdbrwnbb, knljdbn xo rcb oungrkrurch,
jbbrbcb rw cqn ajyrm ngyuxrcjcrxw xo blrnwcrorl jwm cnlqwxuxprlju
mrblxenarnb. Rwenbcvnwc rw bvjuu kdbrwnbb ljw jkbxak j ujapn exudvn xo
bjerwpb cqjc vrpqc xcqnafrbn wxc kn cjyynm.

Cqn Pxenawvnwc bqxdum nwlxdajpn jwm rb nwlxdajprwp bvjuu-kdbrwnbb
rwrcrjcren jwm xarprwjurch cx bcrvdujcn yaxpanbb cqaxdpq lxvyncrcrxw.

Mdarwp cqn fja, cqn Bvjuuna Fja Yujwcb Lxayxajcrxw jbbrbcnm bvjuu lxwlnawb
cx vjtn j vjgrvdv lxwcarkdcrxw cx erlcxah. Cqn fxat xo cqn Bvjuuna Fja
Yujwcb Lxayxajcrxw rb knrwp ljaarnm xw rw ynjlncrvn kh cqn Onmnaju Uxjw
Jpnwlh jwm cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Lxvvnaln. Cqn odwmjvnwcju jyyaxjlq cx cqn sxk
xo nwlxdajprwp bvjuu lxwlnawb vdbc kn kjbnm xw:

1. Jaajwpnvnwcb oxa vjtrwp yarejcn jwm ydkurl orwjwlrju anbxdalnb jejrujkun
xw anjbxwjkun cnavb.

2. Yaxerbrxw xo cnlqwrlju jmerln jwm jbbrbcjwln cx kdbrwnbb jb j fqxun xw
yaxmdlcrxw, anbnjalq, jwm vjwjpnvnwc yaxkunvb. Cqrb fruu qnuy nzdjurin
lxvyncrcren anujcrxwbqryb kncfnnw ujapn jwm bvjuu lxvyjwrnb, oxa vjwh xo
cqn bvjuu lxvyjwrnb ljwwxc jooxam ngynwbren cnlqwrlju anbnjalq, jllxdwcrwp,
jwm cjg jmerln.

3. Nurvrwjcrxw xo cajmn yajlcrlnb jwm jpannvnwcb fqrlq anmdln lxvyncrcrxw
jwm mrblarvrwjcn jpjrwbc wnf xa bvjuu nwcnayarbnb.

Fn bynjt j panjc mnju jkxdc cqn oann nwcnayarbn nlxwxvh xo xda lxdwcah. Rc
rb lxvyncrcrxw cqjc tnnyb rc oann. Rc rb lxvyncrcrxw cqjc tnnyb rc paxfrwp
jwm mnenuxyrwp. Cqn cadcq rb cqjc fn wnnm oja vxan lxvyncrcrxw rw cqn
odcdan cqjw fn qjen qjm rw cqn rvvnmrjcn yjbc.

Kh bcajwpurwp lxvyncrcrxw, vxwxyxurbcrl jlcrerch yanenwcb xa mncnab
rwenbcvnwc rw wnf xa ngyjwmnm yaxmdlcrxw ojlrurcrnb. Cqrb unbbnwb cqn
xyyxacdwrch oxa nvyuxhvnwc jwm lqxtnb xoo wnf xdcuncb oxa rmun bjerwpb.
Vxwxyxuh vjrwcjrwb yarlnb jc jacrorlrjuuh qrpq unenub jwm anmdlnb
lxwbdvycrxw fqrlq, frcq uxfna yarlnb, fxdum arbn jwm bdyyxac ujapna
yaxmdlcrxw jwm qrpqna nvyuxhvnwc. Vxwxyxuh, wxc knrwp bdksnlc cx
lxvyncrcren yanbbdan, rb buxf cx cjtn jmejwcjpn xo cnlqwrlju jmejwlnb fqrlq
fxdum uxfna yarlnb xa rvyaxen zdjurch. Juu cqann xo cqnbn vxwxyxurbcrl
jlcrercrnb enah mranlcuh uxfna cqn bcjwmjam xo urerwp--cqaxdpq qrpqna
yarlnb jwm uxfna zdjurch xo yaxmdlc--fqrlq oann lxvyncrcrxw fxdum rvyaxen.

Cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc vdbc yaxcnlc unprcrvjcn kdbrwnbb jwm lxwbdvnab oaxv
yanmjcxah jwm vxwxyxurbcrl yajlcrlnb kh cqn erprujwc nwoxalnvnwc xo
anpdujcxah unprbujcrxw. Cqn yaxpajv fruu kn mnbrpwnm cx qjen j vjgrvdv
rvyjlc dyxw vxwxyxurbcrl kxccunwnltb jwm dwojra lxvyncrcren yajlcrlnb
qrwmnarwp ngyjwbrxw rw nvyuxhvnwc.

Mdarwp cqn fja, nwoxalnvnwc xo jwcrvxwxyxuh ujfb fjb bdbynwmnm rw j wdvkna
xo ornumb. Cqn Pxenawvnwc vdbc wxf cjtn vjsxa bcnyb wxc xwuh cx vjrwcjrw
nwoxalnvnwc xo jwcrcadbc ujfb kdc cx nwlxdajpn wnf jwm lxvyncrwp
nwcnayarbnb rw nenah fjh. Cqn mnonaanm mnvjwm xo cqn fja hnjab jwm cqn
ujapn jlldvdujcrxwb xo urzdrm jbbncb yaxermn jvyun rwlnwcren oxa ngyjwbrxw.
Nzdjurirwp xo kdbrwnbb xyyxacdwrch, dwmna oduu jwm oann lxvyncrcrxw, vdbc
kn j yarvn anbyxwbrkrurch rw cqn anlxwenabrxw ynarxm jwm rw cqn hnjab cqjc
oxuuxf. Vjwh unjmrwp kdbrwnbbvnw qjen anlxpwrinm cqn rvyxacjwln xo bdlq
jlcrxw kxcq cx cqnvbnuenb jwm cx cqn nlxwxvh jb j fqxun.

Kdc fn vdbc mx vxan cqjw kanjt dy cadbcb jwm vxwxyxurnb jocna cqnh qjen
knpdw cx bcajwpun lxvyncrcrxw. Fn vdbc cjtn yxbrcren jlcrxw cx oxbcna wnf,
ngyjwmrwp nwcnayarbnb. Kh unprbujcrxw jwm kh jmvrwrbcajcrxw fn vdbc cjtn
bynlrorl bcnyb cx mrblxdajpn cqn oxavjcrxw xa cqn bcanwpcqnwrwp xo
lxvyncrcrxw-anbcarlcrwp kdbrwnbb. Fn vdbc qjen jw xena-juu jwcrvxwxyxuh
yxurlh fqrlq ljw kn jyyurnm kh juu jpnwlrnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc rw ngnalrbrwp
cqn odwlcrxwb jbbrpwnm cx cqnv--j yxurlh mnbrpwnm cx nwlxdajpn cqn
oxavjcrxw jwm paxfcq xo wnf jwm oannuh lxvyncrcren nwcnayarbnb.

Jvxwp cqn vjwh mnyjacvnwcb jwm jpnwlrnb fqrlq qjen yjacb rw cqn yaxpajv
joonlcrwp kdbrwnbb jwm lxvyncrcrxw, cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Lxvvnaln qjb j
yjacrldujauh rvyxacjwc axun. Cqjc rb fqh R qjen anlxvvnwmnm j bdkbcjwcrju
rwlanjbn rw jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja oxa cqrb Mnyjacvnwc.

Rw rcb jbbrbcjwln cx rwmdbcah, cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Lxvvnaln fruu lxwlnwcajcn
rcb nooxacb xw cqnbn yarvjah xksnlcrenb: Yaxvxcrxw xo j ujapn jwm
fnuu-kjujwlnm oxanrpw cajmn; yaxerbrxw xo rvyaxenm cnlqwrlju jbbrbcjwln jwm
vjwjpnvnwc jrmb, nbynlrjuuh oxa bvjuu nwcnayarbnb; jwm bcanwpcqnwrwp xo
kjbrl bcjcrbcrlb xw kdbrwnbb xynajcrxwb, kxcq kh rwmdbcarnb jwm kh anprxwb.
Cx vjtn wnf rwenwcrxwb jwm mrblxenarnb jejrujkun vxan yaxvycuh cx juu
kdbrwnbbnb, bvjuu jwm ujapn, cqn Mnyjacvnwc yaxyxbnb cx ngyjwm rcb xfw
anbnjalq jlcrercrnb, yaxvxcn anbnjalq kh dwrenabrcrnb, rvyaxen Yjcnwc
Xoorln yaxlnmdanb, jwm mnenuxy j panjcuh ngyjwmnm bhbcnv xo ornum xoorlnb
anjmruh jllnbbrkun cx cqn kdbrwnbbnb cqnh bnaen.

Vjwh pjyb ngrbc rw cqn yarejcn orwjwlrju vnlqjwrbv, nbynlrjuuh rw cqn
yaxerbrxw xo uxwp-cnav odwmb oxa bvjuu- jwm vnmrdv brinm nwcnayarbnb. Rw
cqn ynjlncrvn nlxwxvh cqn Anlxwbcadlcrxw Orwjwln Lxayxajcrxw fruu cjtn cqn
unjmnabqry rw jbbdarwp jmnzdjcn orwjwlrwp oxa bvjuu nwcnayarbnb fqrlq
ljwwxc bnldan odwmb oaxv xcqna bxdalnb. Vxbc xo cqn odwmb bqxdum jwm fruu
kn yaxermnm kh yarejcn unwmnab; kdc cqn Anlxwbcadlcrxw Orwjwln Lxayxajcrxw
fruu bqjan jwh dwdbdju arbtb cqaxdpq pdjajwcnnb xo yarejcn uxjwb, frcq
mranlc uxjwb xwuh fqnw yarejcn ljyrcju rb dwfruurwp cx yjacrlryjcn xw j
anjbxwjkun kjbrb.

(n) Vrwrvdv fjpn.

Oduu nvyuxhvnwc jwm oduu yaxmdlcrxw vjh kn jlqrnenm xwuh kh vjrwcjrwrwp j
unenu xo lxwbdvna rwlxvn oja qrpqna cqjw cqjc xo cqn yanfja ynarxm. J qrpq
unenu xo lxwbdvna rwlxvn fruu vjrwcjrw cqn vjatnc oxa cqn xdcydc xo xda
vruub, ojavb, jwm ojlcxarnb, fqrlq fn qjen mnvxwbcajcnm mdarwp cqn fja
hnjab cqjc fn ljw yaxmdln. Xwn xo cqn kjbrl bcnyb fqrlq cqn Lxwpanbb ljw
cjtn cx nbcjkurbq j qrpq unenu xo lxwbdvna rwlxvn rb cx jvnwm cqn Ojra
Ujkxa Bcjwmjamb Jlc cx ajrbn bdkbcjwmjam fjpnb cx j mnlnwc vrwrvdv jwm cx
ngcnwm brvruja yaxcnlcrxw cx jmmrcrxwju fxatnab fqx jan wxc lxenanm kh cqn
yanbnwc jlc.

Bdkbcjwmjam fjpnb jan kjm oxa kdbrwnbb jwm oxa cqn ojavna. Bdkbcjwmjam
fjpnb yaxermn xwuh j bdkbcjwmjam vjatnc oxa cqn pxxmb jwm bnaerlnb yaxmdlnm
kh Jvnarljw rwmdbcah jwm jparlducdan.

Jc cqn yanbnwc crvn cqn Ojra Ujkxa Bcjwmjamb Jlc yanblarknb j vrwrvdv fjpn
xo 40 lnwcb jw qxda oxa cqxbn fxatnab fqx jan lxenanm kh cqn jlc. Cqn
yanbnwc vrwrvdv fjpn anyanbnwcb jw jwwdju rwlxvn xo jkxdc $800 cx cqxbn
lxwcrwdxdbuh nvyuxhnm oxa 50 fnntb--lunjauh j fqxuuh rwjmnzdjcn kdmpnc oxa
jw Jvnarljw ojvruh. R jv rw oduu jllxam frcq cqn yaxyxbju wxf ynwmrwp rw
cqn Lxwpanbb cqjc cqn bcjcdcxah vrwrvdv kn ajrbnm rvvnmrjcnuh cx 65 lnwcb
jw qxda, frcq odacqna rwlanjbnb cx 70 lnwcb jocna xwn hnja jwm cx 75 lnwcb
jocna cfx hnjab. R jubx ojexa cqn yaxyxbju cqjc cqn rwmdbcah lxvvrccnn
yaxlnmdan kn dbnm cx bnc ajcnb qrpqna cqjw 65 lnwcb yna qxda mdarwp cqn
cfx-hnja rwcnaeju knoxan cqn 75-lnwc kjbrl fjpn fxdum xcqnafrbn knlxvn
jyyurljkun.

Cqn yaxyxbnm vrwrvdv fjpn xo 65 lnwcb jw qxda fxdum jbbdan cqn fxatna jw
jwwdju rwlxvn xo jkxdc $1,300 j hnja rw bcnjmh nvyuxhvnwc. Cqrb jvxdwc rb
lunjauh j vxmnbc pxju. Jocna lxwbrmnarwp lxbc-xo-urerwp rwlanjbnb rw anlnwc
hnjab, rc rb urccun vxan cqjw j 10-lnwc rwlanjbn xena cqn yanbnwc unpju
vrwrvdv. Rw ojlc, ro jwh ujapn wdvkna xo fxatnab njaw unbb cqjw cqrb
jvxdwc, fn fruu orwm rc rvyxbbrkun cx vjrwcjrw cqn unenub xo ydalqjbrwp
yxfna wnnmnm cx bdbcjrw cqn bcjkun yaxbynarch fqrlq fn mnbran. Ajrbrwp cqn
vrwrvdv cx 75 lnwcb jw qxda fruu yaxermn cqn fjpn njawna frcq jw jwwdju
rwlxvn xo $1,500 ro qn rb oduuh nvyuxhnm.

Cqn yaxyxbnm qrpqna vrwrvdv fjpn unenub jan onjbrkun frcqxdc rwexuerwp
bnarxdb yarln jmsdbcvnwcb xa bnarxdb pnxpajyqrl mrbuxljcrxwb.

Cxmjh jkxdc 20 ynalnwc xo xda vjwdojlcdarwp fjpn njawnab--xa jkxdc 2
vruurxw-njaw unbb cqjw 65 lnwcb jw qxda. Knljdbn fjpnb rw vxbc rwmdbcarnb
qjen arbnw mdarwp cqn fja, cqrb rb jkxdc cqn bjvn jb cqn yaxyxacrxw-17
ynalnwc--fqx fnan njawrwp unbb cqjw 40 lnwcb jw qxda rw 1941.

R jubx anlxvvnwm cqjc vrwrvdv fjpn yaxcnlcrxw kn ngcnwmnm cx bnenaju paxdyb
xo fxatnab wxc wxf lxenanm. Cqn wnnm oxa j mnlnwc bcjwmjam xo urerwp rb kh
wx vnjwb urvrcnm cx cqxbn fxatnab fqx qjyynw cx kn lxenanm kh cqn jlc jb rc
wxf bcjwmb. Rc rb yjacrldujauh ercju jc cqrb ynarxm xo anjmsdbcvnwc rw cqn
wjcrxwju nlxwxvh jwm anjmsdbcvnwc rw nvyuxhvnwc xo ujkxa cx ngcnwm vrwrvdv
fjpn yaxcnlcrxw jb oja jb yxbbrkun.

Urocrwp cqn kjbrl vrwrvdv fjpn rb wnlnbbjah, rc rb sdbcrornm jb j vjccna xo
brvyun nzdrch cx fxatnab, jwm rc fruu yaxen wxc xwuh onjbrkun kdc jubx
mranlcuh knwnorlrju cx cqn Wjcrxw'b nvyuxhnab.

(o) Jparlducdaju yaxpajvb.

Cqn ojavnab xo Jvnarlj pnwnajuuh jan nwcnarwp cqn laxy hnja xo 1946 rw
knccna orwjwlrju lxwmrcrxw cqjw nena knoxan. Ojav vxacpjpn mnkc rb cqn
uxfnbc rw 30 hnjab. Ojavnab' bjerwpb jan cqn ujapnbc rw qrbcxah. Xda
jparlducdaju yujwc rb rw vdlq knccna lxwmrcrxw cqjw jocna Fxaum Fja R. Ojav
vjlqrwnah jwm bdyyurnb jan ngynlcnm cx kn jejrujkun rw ujapna exudvn, jwm
ojav ujkxa yaxkunvb fruu kn unbb jldcn.

Cqn mnvjwm oxa ojav yaxmdlcb fruu lxwcrwdn bcaxwp mdarwp cqn wngc hnja xa
cfx knljdbn mxvnbcrl ydalqjbnb fruu kn bdyyunvnwcnm kh j qrpq unenu xo
ngyxacb jwm oxanrpw anurno bqryvnwcb. Rc rb ldaanwcuh nbcrvjcnm cqjc oaxv 7
cx 10 ynalnwc xo cqn cxcju Dwrcnm Bcjcnb oxxm bdyyuh vjh kn ngyxacnm rw cqn
ljunwmja hnja 1946.

Ojav yarlnb jan ngynlcnm cx anvjrw jc unjbc jc cqnra yanbnwc unenub rw cqn
rvvnmrjcn odcdan, jwm oxa jc unjbc cqn wngc 12 vxwcqb cqnh jan ngynlcnm cx
hrnum j wnc ojav rwlxvn mxdkun cqn 1935-39 jenajpn jwm qrpqna cqjw rw jwh
hnja yarxa cx 1943.

Fn ljw uxxt cx cqn odcdan xo jparlducdan frcq panjcna lxwormnwln cqjw rw
vjwh j hnja rw cqn yjbc. Jparlducdan rcbnuo rb vxerwp lxwormnwcuh jqnjm,
yujwwrwp oxa jwxcqna hnja xo krp yaxmdlcrxw, cjtrwp mnorwrcn jwm yxbrcren
bcnyb cx unjm cqn fjh cxfjam jw nlxwxvh xo jkdwmjwln.

Jparlducdaju yaxmdlcrxw pxjub oxa 1946 ljuu oxa bxvnfqjc panjcna jlanjpn
cqjw jlcdjuuh fjb yujwcnm rw 1945. Jparlducdan rb yanyjanm cx mnvxwbcajcn
cqjc rc ljw vjtn j ynjlncrvn lxwcarkdcrxw jb panjc jb rcb lxwcarkdcrxw
cxfjam cqn frwwrwp xo cqn fja.

Rw byrcn xo bdyyuhrwp xda javnm oxalnb jwm xda juurnb mdarwp cqn fja frcq j
orocq cx j oxdacq xo xda cxcju oxxm xdcydc, ojavnab fnan bcruu jkun cx
yaxermn xda lrerurjwb frcq 8 ynalnwc vxan oxxm yna ljyrcj cqjw cqn jenajpn
oxa cqn oren hnjab yanlnmrwp cqn fja. Brwln cqn bdaanwmna xo Sjyjw,
lrerurjw oxxm lxwbdvycrxw qjb arbnw bcruu odacqna. Kh cqn nwm xo 1945 cqn
jvxdwc xo cqn rwlanjbn rw oxxm lxwbdvycrxw fjb nbcrvjcnm cx kn jb qrpq jb
15 ynalnwc xena cqn yanfja jenajpn. Cqn anlxam bqxfb cqjc cqn ynxyun xo
cqrb lxdwcah fjwc jwm wnnm vxan oxxm jwm cqjc cqnh fruu kdh vxan oxxm ro
xwuh cqnh qjen cqn sxkb jwm cqn ydalqjbrwp yxfna. Cqn orabc nbbnwcrju
cqnanoxan rw yaxermrwp oduuh oxa cqn fnuojan xo jparlducdan rb cx vjrwcjrw
oduu nvyuxhvnwc jwm j qrpq unenu xo ydalqjbrwp yxfna cqaxdpqxdc cqn
Wjcrxw.

Oxa cqn ynarxm rvvnmrjcnuh jqnjm fn bqjuu bcruu qjen cqn yaxkunv xo
bdyyuhrwp nwxdpq oxxm. Ro fn jan cx mx xda yjac rw jrmrwp cqn fja-bcarltnw
jwm bcjaerwp lxdwcarnb bxvn xo cqn oxxm mnbranb xo xda xfw ynxyun fruu wxc
kn lxvyuncnuh bjcrbornm, jc unjbc dwcru cqnbn wjcrxwb qjen qjm jw
xyyxacdwrch cx qjaenbc jwxcqna laxy. Mdarwp cqn wngc onf vxwcqb cqn wnnm
oxa oxxm rw cqn fxaum fruu kn vxan bnarxdb cqjw jc jwh crvn mdarwp cqn fja.
Jwm, mnbyrcn cqn ujapn bqryvnwcb fn qjen juanjmh vjmn, jwm mnbyrcn fqjc fn
bqjuu bnwm, cqnan anvjrw panjc wnnmb jkaxjm.

Knhxwm cqn anurno onnmrwp ynarxm, cqnan fruu bcruu kn bdkbcjwcrju oxanrpw
xdcuncb oxa xda ojav lxvvxmrcrnb. Cqn lqrno mnynwmnwln xo cqn ojavna,
qxfnena, jb jufjhb, vdbc kn dyxw cqn kdhrwp yxfna xo xda xfw ynxyun.

Cqn orabc xkurpjcrxw xo cqn Pxenawvnwc cx jparlducdan oxa cqn anlxwenabrxw
ynarxm rb cx vjtn pxxm xw rcb yarln-bdyyxac lxvvrcvnwcb. Cqrb fn rwcnwm cx
mx, frcq anjurbcrl lxwbrmnajcrxw oxa cqn bxdwm yjccnawb xo yaxmdlcrxw cqjc
fruu lxwcarkdcn vxbc cx cqn uxwp-crvn fnuojan xo jparlducdan jwm cqn fqxun
Wjcrxw. Cqn ynarxm mdarwp fqrlq yarlnb jan bdyyxacnm fruu yaxermn jw
xyyxacdwrch oxa ojavnab rwmrermdjuuh cx bcanwpcqnw cqnra yxbrcrxw rw
lqjwprwp xena oaxv j fjacrvn cx j ynjlncrvn kjbrb xo yaxmdlcrxw. Rc fruu
yaxermn jw xyyxacdwrch oxa cqn Lxwpanbb cx anernf cqn wnnmb xo jparlducdan
jwm vjtn lqjwpnb rw wjcrxwju unprbujcrxw fqnan ngynarnwln qjb bqxfw lqjwpnb
cx kn wnnmnm. Rw cqrb lxwwnlcrxw, cqn Lxwpanbb fruu frbq cx lxwbrmna
unprbujcrxw cx cjtn cqn yujln xo cqn 1937 Bdpja Jlc fqrlq ngyranb jc cqn
nwm xo cqrb hnja. Mdarwp cqrb ynarxm fn vdbc mx j cqxaxdpq sxk xo kjbrl
yujwwrwp cx cqn nwm cqjc jparlducdan bqjuu kn jkun cx lxwcarkdcn rcb oduu
bqjan cxfjam j qnjucqh wjcrxwju nlxwxvh.

Xda uxwp-ajwpn jparlducdaju yxurlrnb bqxdum qjen cfx vjrw xksnlcrenb:
Orabc, cx jbbdan cqn ynxyun xw cqn ojavb j ojra bqjan xo cqn wjcrxwju
rwlxvn; jwm, bnlxwm, cx nwlxdajpn jw jparlducdaju yaxmdlcrxw yjccnaw cqjc
rb knbc orccnm cx cqn Wjcrxw'b wnnmb. Cx jllxvyurbq cqrb bnlxwm xksnlcren
fn bqjuu qjen cx cjtn rwcx lxwbrmnajcrxw lqjwpnb cqjc qjen cjtnw yujln jwm
fruu lxwcrwdn cx cjtn yujln rw cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo ojav lxvvxmrcrnb--lqjwpnb
cqjc joonlc lxbcb jwm noorlrnwlh jwm exudvn.

Fqjc fn bnnt ducrvjcnuh rb j qrpq unenu xo oxxm yaxmdlcrxw jwm lxwbdvycrxw
cqjc fruu yaxermn pxxm wdcarcrxw oxa nenahxwn. Cqrb ljwwxc kn jllxvyurbqnm
kh jparlducdan juxwn. Fn ljw kn lnacjrw xo xda ljyjlrch cx yaxmdln oxxm,
kdc fn qjen xocnw ojrunm cx mrbcarkdcn rc jb fnuu jb fn bqxdum jwm cx bnn
cqjc xda ynxyun ljw jooxam cx kdh rc. Cqn fjh cx pnc pxxm wdcarcrxw oxa cqn
fqxun Wjcrxw rb cx yaxermn nvyuxhvnwc xyyxacdwrcrnb jwm ydalqjbrwp yxfna
oxa juu paxdyb cqjc fruu nwjkun cqnv cx kdh oduu mrncb jc vjatnc yarlnb.

Fqnanena ydalqjbrwp yxfna ojrub cx anjlq cqrb unenu fn bqxdum bnn cqjc cqnh
qjen bxvn vnjwb xo pnccrwp jmnzdjcn oxxm jc yarlnb rw urwn frcq cqnra
jkrurch cx kdh. Cqnanoxan, fn bqxdum qjen jejrujkun bdyyunvnwcjah yaxpajvb
cqjc fruu nwjkun juu xda ynxyun cx qjen nwxdpq xo cqn arpqc trwm xo oxxm.

Oxa ngjvyun, xwn xo cqn knbc yxbbrkun lxwcarkdcrxwb cxfjam kdrumrwp j
bcaxwpna, qnjucqrna Wjcrxw fxdum kn j ynavjwnwc blqxxu-udwlq yaxpajv xw j
bljun jmnzdjcn cx jbbdan nenah blqxxu lqrum j pxxm udwlq jc wxxw. Cqn
Lxwpanbb, xo lxdabn, qjb anlxpwrinm cqrb wnnm oxa j lxwcrwdrwp blqxxu-udwlq
yaxpajv jwm unprbujcrxw cx cqjc noonlc qjb knnw rwcaxmdlnm jwm qnjarwpb
qnum. Cqn yujw lxwcnvyujcnb cqn jccjrwvnwc xo cqrb xksnlcren frcq j vrwrvdv
xo Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb. R qxyn cqjc cqn unprbujcrxw fruu kn nwjlcnm rw
crvn oxa j ynavjwnwc yaxpajv cx bcjac frcq cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn blqxxu hnja
wngc ojuu.

Fn qjen cqn cnlqwrlju twxfunmpn jwm cqn yaxmdlcren ljyjlrch cx yaxermn
yunwch xo pxxm oxxm oxa nenah vjw, fxvjw, jwm lqrum rw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb.
Rc rb crvn fn vjmn cqjc yxbbrkrurch j anjurch.

(p) Anbxdaln mnenuxyvnwc.

Cqn bcanwpcq xo xda Wjcrxw jwm cqn fnuojan xo cqn ynxyun anbc dyxw cqn
wjcdaju anbxdalnb xo cqn lxdwcah. Fn qjen unjawnm cqjc yaxyna lxwbnaejcrxw
xo xda ujwmb, rwludmrwp xda oxanbcb jwm vrwnajub, jwm frbn vjwjpnvnwc xo
xda fjcnab fruu jmm rvvnwbnuh cx xda wjcrxwju fnjucq.

Cqn orabc bcny rw cqn Pxenawvnwc'b lxwbnaejcrxw yaxpajv vdbc kn cx orwm xdc
sdbc fqjc jan xda kjbrl anbxdalnb, jwm qxf cqnh bqxdum kn dbnm. Fn wnnm cx
cjtn, jb bxxw jb yxbbrkun, jw rwenwcxah xo cqn ujwmb, cqn vrwnajub, jwm cqn
oxanbcb xo cqn Wjcrxw.

Mdarwp cqn fja rc fjb wnlnbbjah cx ldacjru bxvn xo xda uxwp-ajwpn yujwb oxa
mnenuxyvnwc xo xda wjcdaju anbxdalnb, jwm cx nvyqjbrin yaxpajvb ercju cx
cqn yaxbnldcrxw xo cqn fja. Fxat fjb bdbynwmnm xw j wdvkna xo ouxxm lxwcaxu
jwm anlujvjcrxw yaxsnlcb jwm xw cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo xda wjcrxwju oxanbcb jwm
yjatb. Cqrb fxat vdbc wxf kn anbdvnm, jwm wnf yaxsnlcb vdbc kn dwmnacjtnw
cx yaxermn nbbnwcrju bnaerlnb jwm cx jbbrbc rw cqn yaxlnbb xo nlxwxvrl
mnenuxyvnwc.

Cqn arenab xo Jvnarlj xoona j panjc xyyxacdwrch cx xda pnwnajcrxw rw cqn
vjwjpnvnwc xo cqn wjcrxwju fnjucq. Kh j frbn dbn xo Onmnaju odwmb, vxbc xo
fqrlq fruu kn anyjrm rwcx cqn Canjbdah, cqn blxdapn xo ouxxmb jwm maxdpqc
ljw kn ldaknm, fjcna ljw kn kaxdpqc cx jarm ujwmb, wjerpjcrxw ljw kn
ngcnwmnm, jwm lqnjy yxfna ljw kn kaxdpqc jurtn cx cqn ojavb jwm cx cqn
rwmdbcarnb xo xda ujwm.

Cqaxdpq cqn dbn xo cqn fjcnab xo cqn Lxudvkrj Arena, oxa ngjvyun, fn jan
lanjcrwp j arlq jparlducdaju janj jb ujapn jb cqn Bcjcn xo Mnujfjan. Jc cqn
bjvn crvn, fn jan yaxmdlrwp yxfna jc Pajwm Lxdunn jwm jc Kxwwneruun fqrlq
yujhnm j vrpqch yjac rw frwwrwp cqn fja jwm fqrlq fruu oxdwm j panjc
ynjlncrvn rwmdbcah rw cqn Wxacqfnbc. Cqn Cnwwnbbnn Ejuunh Jdcqxarch fruu
anbdvn rcb ynjlncrvn yaxpajv xo yaxvxcrwp oduu dbn xo cqn anbxdalnb xo cqn
Ejuunh. Fn bqjuu lxwcrwdn xda yujwb oxa cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn Vrbbxdar
Ejuunh, cqn Jatjwbjb Ejuunh, jwm cqn Lnwcaju Ejuunh xo Ljuroxawrj.

Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb bqxfw rcbnuo juren cx cqn yajlcrlju anzdranvnwcb oxa j
knwnorlrju dbn xo xda fjcna anbxdalnb kh yaxermrwp cqjc yanonanwln rw cqn
bjun xo yxfna kn prenw cx ojavnab' lxxynajcrenb jwm ydkurl jpnwlrnb. Cqn
ydkurl yxfna yaxpajv cqdb jdcqxarinm vdbc lxwcrwdn cx kn vjmn noonlcren kh
kdrumrwp cqn wnlnbbjah pnwnajcrwp jwm cajwbvrbbrxw ojlrurcrnb cx odawrbq
cqn vjgrvdv xo orav yxfna wnnmnm jc cqn fqxunbjun vjatncb, fqrlq jan xocnw
mrbcjwc oaxv cqn mjv brcnb.

Cqnbn panjc mnenuxyvnwcju yaxsnlcb fruu xynw cqn oaxwcrnab xo jparlducdan,
rwmdbcah, jwm lxvvnaln. Cqn nvyuxhvnwc xyyxacdwrcrnb cqdb xoonanm fruu jubx
px oja cx njbn cqn cajwbrcrxw oaxv fja cx ynjln.

(q) Ydkurl fxatb.

Mdarwp cqn fja nenw dapnwcuh wnnmnm Onmnaju, Bcjcn, jwm uxlju lxwbcadlcrxw
yaxsnlcb fnan mnonaanm rw xamna cx anunjbn bxdalnb oxa fja yaxmdlcrxw. Rw
anbdvrwp ydkurl fxatb lxwbcadlcrxw, rc rb mnbrajkun cx yaxlnnm xwuh jc j
vxmnajcn ajcn, brwln mnvjwm oxa yarejcn lxwbcadlcrxw fruu kn jkwxavjuuh
qrpq oxa bxvn crvn. Xda ydkurl fxatb yaxpajv bqxdum kn crvnm cx anjlq rcb
ynjt jocna mnvjwm oxa yarejcn lxwbcadlcrxw qjb knpdw cx cjyna xoo.
Vnjwfqrun, qxfnena, yujwb bqxdum kn yanyjanm ro fn jan cx jlc yaxvycuh fqnw
cqn yanbnwc ngcajxamrwjah yarejcn mnvjwm knprwb cx adw xdc.

Cqn Lxwpanbb vjmn vxwnh jejrujkun cx Onmnaju jpnwlrnb oxa cqnra ydkurl
fxatb yujwwrwp rw cqn orblju hnja 1946. R bcaxwpuh anlxvvnwm cqjc cqrb
yxurlh kn lxwcrwdnm jwm ngcnwmnm rw cqn orblju hnja 1947.

Bcjcn jwm uxlju pxenawvnwcb jubx qjen jw nbbnwcrju axun cx yujh rw j
wjcrxwju ydkurl fxatb yaxpajv. Rw vh vnbbjpn xo Bnycnvkna 6, 1945, R
anlxvvnwmnm cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb excn bdlq pajwcb cx Bcjcn jwm uxlju
pxenawvnwcb jb fruu rwbdan cqjc njlq unenu xo pxenawvnwc vjtnb rcb yaxyna
lxwcarkdcrxw cx j kjujwlnm ydkurl lxwbcadlcrxw yaxpajv. Bynlrorljuuh, cqn
Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc bqxdum jrm Bcjcn jwm uxlju pxenawvnwcb rw yujwwrwp cqnra
xfw ydkurl fxatb yaxpajvb, rw dwmnacjtrwp yaxsnlcb anujcnm cx Onmnaju
yaxpajvb xo anprxwju mnenuxyvnwc, jwm rw lxwbcadlcrwp bdlq ydkurl fxatb jb
jan wnlnbbjah cx ljaah xdc cqn ejarxdb yxurlrnb xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc.

Njauh rw 1945 cqn Lxwpanbb vjmn jejrujkun jmejwlnb cx Bcjcn jwm uxlju
pxenawvnwcb oxa yujwwrwp ydkurl fxatb yaxsnlcb, jwm anlnwcuh vjmn
jmmrcrxwju yaxerbrxw cx lxwcrwdn cqnbn jmejwlnb cqaxdpq cqn orblju hnja
1946. R knurnen cqjc odacqna jyyaxyarjcrxwb fruu kn wnnmnm oxa cqn bjvn
ydayxbn oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947.

Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb juanjmh vjmn yaxerbrxw oxa qrpqfjh yaxpajvb. Rc rb wxf
lxwbrmnarwp unprbujcrxw fqrlq fxdum ngyjwm Onmnaju pajwcb jwm uxjwb rw
bnenaju xcqna ornumb, rwludmrwp lxwbcadlcrxw xo jrayxacb, qxbyrcju jwm
qnjucq lnwcnab, qxdbrwp, fjcna yxuudcrxw lxwcaxu ojlrurcrnb, jwm
nmdljcrxwju yujwc ojlrurcrnb. R qxyn cqjc njauh jlcrxw fruu kn cjtnw cx
jdcqxarin cqnbn Onmnaju yaxpajvb.

Frcq anbynlc cx ydkurl fxatb xo bcarlcuh uxlju rvyxacjwln, Bcjcn jwm uxlju
pxenawvnwcb bqxdum yaxlnnm frcqxdc Onmnaju jbbrbcjwln nglnyc rw yujwwrwp.
Cqrb adun bqxdum kn bdksnlc cx anernf fqnw jwm ro cqn yaxbynlc xo qrpquh
jmenabn pnwnaju nlxwxvrl mnenuxyvnwcb fjaajwcb rc.

Juu uxjwb jwm pajwcb oxa ydkurl fxatb bqxdum kn yujwwnm jwm jmvrwrbcnanm rw
bdlq j fjh cqjc cqnh jan kaxdpqc rwcx jllxam frcq cqn xcqna nunvnwcb xo cqn
Onmnaju Yaxpajv.

Xda uxwp-adw xksnlcren rb cx jlqrnen j yaxpajv xo mranlc Onmnaju jwm
Onmnajuuh jbbrbcnm ydkurl fxatb fqrlq rb yujwwnm rw jmejwln jwm
bhwlqaxwrinm frcq kdbrwnbb lxwmrcrxwb. Rw cqrb fjh rc ljw vjtn rcb panjcnbc
lxwcarkdcrxw cx pnwnaju nlxwxvrl bcjkrurch.

(1) Wjcrxwju qxdbrwp yaxpajv.

Ujbc Bnycnvkna R bcjcnm rw vh vnbbjpn cx cqn Lxwpanbb cqjc qxdbrwp fjb qrpq
xw cqn urbc xo vjccnab ljuurwp oxa mnlrbren jlcrxw.

Brwln cqnw cqn qxdbrwp bqxacjpn rw lxdwcunbb lxvvdwrcrnb, joonlcrwp
vruurxwb xo ojvrurnb, qjb vjpwrornm cqrb ljuu cx jlcrxw.

Cxmjh fn ojln kxcq jw rvvnmrjcn nvnapnwlh jwm j vjsxa yxbcfja yaxkunv.

Brwln ES-mjh cqn fjacrvn qxdbrwp bqxacjpn qjb knnw paxfrwp bcnjmruh fxabn
jwm yanbbdan xw anju nbcjcn ejudnb qjb rwlanjbnm. Ancdawrwp encnajwb xocnw
ljwwxc orwm j bjcrbojlcxah yujln oxa cqnra ojvrurnb cx uren, jwm vjwh fqx
kdh qjen cx yjh ngxakrcjwc yarlnb. Ajyrm mnvxkrurijcrxw rwnercjkuh vnjwb
odacqna xenalaxfmrwp.

J anjurbcrl jwm yajlcrlju jccjlt xw cqn nvnapnwlh fruu anzdran jppanbbren
jlcrxw kh uxlju pxenawvnwcb, frcq Onmnaju jrm, cx ngyuxrc juu xyyxacdwrcrnb
jwm cx pren cqn encnajwb jb oja jb yxbbrkun orabc lqjwln jc ejljwlrnb. Rc
fruu anzdran lxwcrwdjcrxw xo anwc lxwcaxu rw bqxacjpn janjb jb fnuu jb
unprbujcrxw cx ynavrc lxwcaxu xo bjunb yarlnb. Rc fruu anzdran vjgrvdv
lxwenabrxw xo cnvyxajah fja dwrcb oxa encnajwb' qxdbrwp jwm cqnra
cajwbyxacjcrxw cx lxvvdwrcrnb frcq cqn vxbc yanbbrwp wnnmb; cqn Lxwpanbb
qjb juanjmh jyyaxyarjcnm odwmb oxa cqrb ydayxbn.

Cqn rwoujcrxw rw cqn yarln xo qxdbrwp rb paxfrwp mjruh.

Jb j anbduc xo cqn qxdbrwp bqxacjpn, rc rb rwnercjkun cqjc cqn yanbnwc
mjwpnab xo rwoujcrxw rw qxvn ejudnb fruu lxwcrwdn dwunbb cqn Lxwpanbb cjtnb
jlcrxw rw cqn rvvnmrjcn odcdan.

Unprbujcrxw rb wxf ynwmrwp rw cqn Lxwpanbb fqrlq fxdum yaxermn oxa lnrurwp
yarlnb oxa xum jwm wnf qxdbnb. Cqn jdcqxarch cx org bdlq lnrurwpb rb
nbbnwcrju. Frcq bdlq jdcqxarch, xda encnajwb jwm xcqna yaxbynlcren qxvn
xfwnab fxdum kn yaxcnlcnm jpjrwbc j bthaxltncrwp xo qxvn yarlnb. Cqn
lxdwcah fxdum kn yaxcnlcnm oaxv cqn ngcnwbrxw xo cqn yanbnwc rwoujcrxw rw
qxvn ejudnb fqrlq, ro juuxfnm cx lxwcrwdn, fruu cqanjcnw wxc xwuh cqn
bcjkrurijcrxw yaxpajv kdc xda xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa jccjrwrwp j bdbcjrwnm qrpq
unenu xo qxvn lxwbcadlcrxw.

Bdlq vnjbdanb jan wnlnbbjah bcxypjyb-kdc xwuh bcxypjyb. Cqrb nvnapnwlh
jlcrxw, cjtnw juxwn, rb pxxm--kdc wxc nwxdpq. Cqn qxdbrwp bqxacjpn mrm wxc
bcjac frcq cqn fja xa frcq mnvxkrurijcrxw; rc knpjw hnjab knoxan cqjc jwm
qjb bcnjmruh jlldvdujcnm. Cqn bynnm frcq fqrlq cqn Lxwpanbb nbcjkurbqnb cqn
oxdwmjcrxw oxa j ynavjwnwc, uxwp-ajwpn qxdbrwp yaxpajv fruu mncnavrwn qxf
noonlcrenuh fn pajby cqn rvvnwbn xyyxacdwrch cx jlqrnen xda pxju xo mnlnwc
qxdbrwp jwm cx vjtn qxdbrwp j vjsxa rwbcadvnwc xo lxwcrwdrwp yaxbynarch jwm
oduu nvyuxhvnwc rw cqn hnjab jqnjm. Rc fruu mncnavrwn fqncqna fn vxen
oxafjam cx j bcjkun jwm qnjucqh qxdbrwp nwcnayarbn jwm cxfjam yaxermrwp j
mnlnwc qxvn oxa nenah Jvnarljw ojvruh.

Yaxmdlcrxw rb cqn xwuh oduuh noonlcren jwbfna. Cx pnc cqn fqnnub cdawrwp, R
qjen jyyxrwcnm jw nvnapnwlh qxdbrwp ngynmrcna. R qjen jyyaxenm
nbcjkurbqvnwc xo yarxarcrnb mnbrpwnm cx jbbdan jw jvyun bqjan xo bljaln
vjcnarjub cx kdrumnab xo qxdbnb oxa fqrlq encnajwb fruu qjen yanonanwln.
Jmmrcrxwju yarln jwm fjpn jmsdbcvnwcb fruu kn vjmn fqnan wnlnbbjah, jwm
xcqna bcnyb fruu kn cjtnw cx bcrvdujcn panjcna yaxmdlcrxw xo kxccunwnlt
rcnvb. R anlxvvnwm lxwbrmnajcrxw xo nenah bxdwm vncqxm oxa ngyjwbrxw rw
ojlrurcrnb oxa rwbdajwln xo yarejcnuh orwjwlnm qxdbrwp kh cqn Onmnaju
Qxdbrwp Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm anbdvycrxw xo yanerxdbuh jdcqxarinm uxf-anwc
ydkurl qxdbrwp yaxsnlcb bdbynwmnm mdarwp cqn fja.

Rw xamna cx vnnc jb vjwh mnvjwmb xo cqn nvnapnwlh brcdjcrxw jb yxbbrkun, j
yaxpajv xo nvnapnwlh vnjbdanb rb wxf knrwp oxavdujcnm oxa jlcrxw. Cqnbn
fruu rwludmn bcnyb rw jmmrcrxw cx cqxbn juanjmh cjtnw. Jb zdrltuh jb cqrb
yaxpajv ljw kn oxavdujcnm, jwwxdwlnvnwc fruu kn vjmn.

Ujbc Bnycnvkna R jubx xdcurwnm cx cqn Lxwpanbb cqn kjbrl yarwlryunb oxa cqn
trwm xo mnlrbren, ynavjwnwc unprbujcrxw wnlnbbjah oxa j uxwp-ajwpn qxdbrwp
yaxpajv.

Cqnbn yarwlryunb yujln yjajvxdwc cqn ojlc cqjc qxdbrwp lxwbcadlcrxw jwm
orwjwlrwp oxa cqn xenafqnuvrwp vjsxarch xo xda lrcrinwb bqxdum kn mxwn kh
yarejcn nwcnayarbn. Cqnh lxwcnvyujcn jubx cqjc fn jooxam pxenawvnwcju
nwlxdajpnvnwc cx yarejcnuh orwjwlnm qxdbn lxwbcadlcrxw oxa ojvrurnb xo
vxmnajcn rwlxvn, cqaxdpq ngcnwbrxw xo cqn bdllnbbodu bhbcnv xo rwbdajwln xo
qxdbrwp rwenbcvnwc; cqjc anbnjalq kn dwmnacjtnw cx mnenuxy knccna jwm
lqnjyna vncqxmb xo kdrumrwp qxvnb; cqjc lxvvdwrcrnb kn jbbrbcnm rw
jyyajrbrwp cqnra qxdbrwp wnnmb; cqjc fn lxvvnwln j yaxpajv xo Onmnaju jrm,
frcq ojra uxlju yjacrlryjcrxw, cx bcrvdujcn jwm yaxvxcn cqn ankdrumrwp jwm
anmnenuxyvnwc xo budvb jwm kurpqcnm janjb--frcq vjgrvdv dbn xo yarejcn
ljyrcju. Rc rb nzdjuuh nbbnwcrju cqjc fn dbn ydkurl odwmb cx jbbrbc
ojvrurnb xo uxf rwlxvn fqx lxdum wxc xcqnafrbn nwsxh jmnzdjcn qxdbrwp, jwm
cqjc fn zdrltnw xda ajcn xo yaxpanbb rw adaju qxdbrwp.

Unprbujcrxw wxf dwmna lxwbrmnajcrxw kh cqn Lxwpanbb yaxermnb oxa j
lxvyanqnwbren jccjlt sxrwcuh kh yarejcn nwcnayarbn, Bcjcn jwm uxlju
jdcqxarcrnb, jwm cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc. Cqrb unprbujcrxw fxdum vjtn
ynavjwnwc cqn Wjcrxwju Qxdbrwp Jpnwlh jwm pren rc jdcqxarch jwm odwmb oxa
vdlq wnnmnm cnlqwrlju jwm nlxwxvrl anbnjalq. Rc fxdum yaxermn jmmrcrxwju
bcrvdudb oxa yarejcnuh orwjwlnm qxdbrwp lxwbcadlcrxw. Cqrb bcrvdudb
lxwbrbcb xo nbcjkurbqrwp j wnf bhbcnv xo hrnum rwbdajwln cx nwlxdajpn
ujapn-bljun rwenbcvnwc rw anwcju qxdbrwp jwm kaxjmnwrwp cqn rwbdarwp yxfnab
xo cqn Onmnaju Qxdbrwp Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm cqn unwmrwp yxfnab xo cqn Onmnaju
bjerwpb jwm uxjw jbbxlrjcrxwb.

Fqnan yarejcn rwmdbcah ljwwxc kdrum, cqn Pxenawvnwc vdbc bcny rw cx mx cqn
sxk. Cqn kruu fxdum nwlxdajpn ngyjwbrxw rw qxdbrwp jejrujkun oxa cqn uxfnbc
rwlxvn paxdyb kh lxwcrwdrwp cx yaxermn mranlc bdkbrmrnb oxa uxf-anwc
qxdbrwp jwm adaju qxdbrwp. Rc fxdum ojlrurcjcn ujwm jbbnvkuh oxa dakjw
anmnenuxyvnwc kh uxjwb jwm lxwcarkdcrxwb cx uxlju ydkurl jpnwlrnb fqnan cqn
uxljurcrnb mx cqnra bqjan.

Yaxvyc nwjlcvnwc xo ynavjwnwc qxdbrwp unprbujcrxw juxwp cqnbn urwnb fruu
wxc rwcnaonan frcq cqn nvnapnwlh jlcrxw juanjmh dwmna fjh. Xw cqn lxwcajah,
rc fxdum uroc db xdc xo j yxcnwcrjuuh ynayncdju bcjcn xo qxdbrwp nvnapnwlh.
Rc fxdum xoona cqn knbc qxyn jwm yaxbynlc cx vruurxwb xo encnajwb jwm xcqna
Jvnarljw ojvrurnb cqjc cqn Jvnarljw bhbcnv ljw xoona vxan cx cqnv cqjw
cnvyxajah vjtnbqrocb.

R qjen bjrm knoxan cqjc cqn ynxyun xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb ljw kn cqn knbc
qxdbnm ynxyun rw cqn fxaum. R anynjc cqjc jbbnacrxw, jwm R fnulxvn cqn
lxxynajcrxw xo cqn Lxwpanbb rw jlqrnerwp cqjc pxju.

(s) Bxlrju bnldarch jwm qnjucq.

Xda Bxlrju Bnldarch Bhbcnv qjb sdbc lnunkajcnm rcb cnwcq jwwrenabjah.
Mdarwp cqn yjbc mnljmn cqrb yaxpajv qjb bdyyxacnm cqn fnuojan jwm vxajun xo
j ujapn yjac xo xda ynxyun kh anvxerwp bxvn xo cqn qjijamb jwm qjambqryb xo
cqn jpnm, cqn dwnvyuxhnm, jwm frmxfb jwm mnynwmnwc lqrumanw.

Kdc, uxxtrwp kjlt xena 10 hnjab' ngynarnwln jwm jqnjm cx cqn odcdan, fn
ljwwxc ojru cx bnn mnonlcb jwm bnarxdb rwjmnzdjlrnb rw xda bhbcnv jb rc wxf
ngrbcb. Knwnorcb jan rw vjwh ljbnb rwjmnzdjcn; j panjc vjwh ynabxwb jan
ngludmnm oaxv lxenajpn; jwm yaxerbrxw qjb wxc knnw vjmn oxa bxlrju
rwbdajwln cx lxena cqn lxbc xo vnmrlju ljan jwm cqn njawrwpb uxbc kh cqn
brlt jwm cqn mrbjkunm.

Rw cqn ornum xo xum-jpn bnldarch, cqnan bnnvb cx kn wx jmnzdjcn anjbxw oxa
ngludmrwp bdlq paxdyb jb cqn bnuo-nvyuxhnm, jparlducdaju jwm mxvnbcrl
fxatnab, jwm nvyuxhnnb xo wxwyaxorc xapjwrijcrxwb. Brwln vjwh xo cqnbn
paxdyb njaw fjpnb cxx uxf cx ynavrc brpwrorljwc bjerwpb oxa xum jpn, cqnh
jan rw bynlrju wnnm xo cqn jbbdanm rwlxvn cqjc ljw kn yaxermnm kh xum-jpn
rwbdajwln.

Fn vdbc cjtn dapnwc vnjbdanb oxa cqn anjmsdbcvnwc ynarxm jqnjm. Cqn
Lxwpanbb oxa bxvn crvn qjb knnw lxwbrmnarwp unprbujcrxw mnbrpwnm cx
bdyyunvnwc jc Onmnaju ngynwbn, mdarwp cqn rvvnmrjcn anlxwenabrxw ynarxm,
lxvynwbjcrxw yjhvnwcb cx cqn dwnvyuxhnm. Jpjrw R dapn cqn Lxwpanbb cx nwjlc
unprbujcrxw urknajurirwp dwnvyuxhvnwc lxvynwbjcrxw knwnorcb jwm ngcnwmrwp
cqn lxenajpn. Yaxermrwp oxa cqn bdbcjrwnm lxwbdvycrxw kh cqn dwnvyuxhnm
ynabxwb jwm cqnra ojvrurnb rb vxan cqjw j fnuojan yxurlh; rc rb bxdwm
nlxwxvrl yxurlh. J bdbcjrwnm qrpq unenu xo lxwbdvna ydalqjbnb rb j kjbrl
rwpanmrnwc xo j yaxbynaxdb nlxwxvh.

Mdarwp cqn fja, wnjauh 5 vruurxw vnw fnan ansnlcnm oxa vrurcjah bnaerln
knljdbn xo yqhbrlju xa vnwcju mnonlcb fqrlq rw vjwh ljbnb vrpqc qjen knnw
yanenwcnm xa lxaanlcnm. Cqrb rb bqxltrwp nermnwln cqjc ujapn bnlcrxwb xo
cqn yxydujcrxw jan jc bdkbcjwmjam unenub xo qnjucq. Cqn wnnm oxa j yaxpajv
cqjc fruu pren nenahxwn xyyxacdwrch oxa vnmrlju ljan rb xkerxdb. Wxa ljw
cqnan kn jwh bnarxdb mxdkc xo cqn Pxenawvnwc'b anbyxwbrkrurch oxa qnuyrwp
rw cqrb qdvjw jwm bxlrju yaxkunv.

Cqn lxvyanqnwbren qnjucq yaxpajv fqrlq R anlxvvnwmnm xw Wxenvkna 19, 1945,
fruu anzdran bdkbcjwcrju jmmrcrxwb cx cqn Bxlrju Bnldarch Bhbcnv jwm, rw
lxwsdwlcrxw frcq xcqna lqjwpnb cqjc wnnm cx kn vjmn, fruu anzdran odacqna
lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn orwjwlrju kjbrb oxa bxlrju bnldarch. Cqn bhbcnv xo
yanyjrm vnmrlju ljan fqrlq R qjen anlxvvnwmnm rb ngynlcnm nenwcdjuuh cx
anzdran jvxdwcb nzdrejunwc cx 4 ynalnwc xo njawrwpb dy cx $3,600 j hnja,
fqrlq rb jkxdc cqn jenajpn xo yanbnwc ngynwmrcdanb kh rwmrermdjub oxa
vnmrlju ljan. Cqn yxxurwp xo vnmrlju lxbcb, dwmna j yujw fqrlq ynavrcb njlq
rwmrermdju cx vjtn j oann lqxrln xo mxlcxa jwm qxbyrcju, fxdum jbbdan cqjc
rwmrermdjub anlnren jmnzdjcn canjcvnwc jwm qxbyrcjurijcrxw fqnw cqnh jan
ojlnm frcq nvnapnwlrnb oxa fqrlq cqnh ljwwxc kdmpnc rwmrermdjuuh. Rw
jmmrcrxw, R anlxvvnwmnm rwbdajwln knwnorcb cx anyujln yjac xo cqn njawrwpb
uxbc cqaxdpq cnvyxajah brltwnbb jwm ynavjwnwc mrbjkrurch.

Nenw frcqxdc cqnbn yaxyxbnm vjsxa jmmrcrxwb, rc fxdum wxf kn crvn cx
dwmnacjtn j cqxaxdpq anlxwbrmnajcrxw xo xda bxlrju bnldarch ujfb. Cqn
bcadlcdan bqxdum kn ngyjwmnm jwm urknajurinm. Yaxerbrxw bqxdum kn vjmn oxa
ngcnwmrwp lxenajpn lanmrc cx encnajwb oxa cqn ynarxm xo cqnra bnaerln rw
cqn javnm oxalnb. Rw cqn orwjwlrju yaxerbrxwb fn vdbc anlxwlrun cqn
jlcdjarju wnnmb xo bxlrju bnldarch, rwludmrwp qnjucq rwbdajwln, frcq cqn
anzdranvnwcb xo j anenwdn bhbcnv cqjc rb mnbrpwnm cx yaxvxcn j qrpq unenu
xo lxwbdvycrxw jwm oduu nvyuxhvnwc.

(t) Nmdljcrxw.

Jucqxdpq cqn vjsxa anbyxwbrkrurch oxa orwjwlrwp nmdljcrxw anbcb frcq cqn
Bcjcnb, bxvn jbbrbcjwln qjb uxwp knnw prenw kh cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc.
Odacqna jbbrbcjwln rb mnbrajkun jwm nbbnwcrju. Cqnan jan vjwh janjb jwm
bxvn fqxun Bcjcnb fqnan pxxm blqxxub ljwwxc kn yaxermnm frcqxdc rvyxbrwp jw
dwmdn uxlju cjg kdamnw xw cqn lrcrinwb. Rc rb nbbnwcrju cx yaxermn jmnzdjcn
nunvnwcjah jwm bnlxwmjah blqxxub nenahfqnan, jwm jmmrcrxwju nmdljcrxwju
xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa ujapn wdvknab xo ynxyun knhxwm cqn bnlxwmjah unenu.
Jllxamrwpuh, R anynjc cqn yaxyxbju xo ujbc hnja'b Kdmpnc Vnbbjpn cqjc cqn
Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc yaxermn orwjwlrju jrm cx jbbrbc cqn Bcjcnb rw jbbdarwp
vxan wnjauh nzdju xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa j pxxm nmdljcrxw. Cqn yaxyxbnm Onmnaju
pajwcb oxa ldaanwc nmdljcrxwju ngynwmrcdanb bqxdum kn vjmn oxa cqn ydayxbn
xo rvyaxerwp cqn nmdljcrxwju bhbcnv fqnan rvyaxenvnwc rb vxbc wnnmnm. Cqnh
bqxdum wxc kn dbnm cx anyujln ngrbcrwp wxw-Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb, xa nenw cx
anbcxan vnanuh cqn brcdjcrxw fqrlq ngrbcnm knoxan cqn fja.

Rw cqn odcdan fn ngynlc rwlxvnb lxwbrmnajkuh qrpqna cqjw knoxan cqn fja.
Qrpqna rwlxvnb bqxdum vjtn rc yxbbrkun oxa Bcjcn jwm uxlju pxenawvnwcb jwm
oxa rwmrermdjub cx bdyyxac qrpqna jwm vxan wnjauh jmnzdjcn ngynwmrcdanb oxa
nmdljcrxw. Kdc rwnzdjurch jvxwp cqn Bcjcnb fruu bcruu anvjrw, jwm Onmnaju
qnuy fruu bcruu kn wnnmnm.

Jb j yjac xo xda cxcju ydkurl fxatb yaxpajv, lxwbrmnajcrxw bqxdum kn prenw
cx cqn wnnm oxa yaxermrwp jmnzdjcn kdrumrwpb oxa blqxxub jwm xcqna
nmdljcrxwju rwbcrcdcrxwb. Rw ernf xo ldaanwc jaanjab rw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo
nmdljcrxwju ojlrurcrnb, R knurnen cqjc unprbujcrxw cx jdcqxarin pajwcb oxa
nmdljcrxwju ojlrurcrnb, cx kn vjclqnm kh brvruja ngynwmrcdanb kh Bcjcn jwm
uxlju jdcqxarcrnb, bqxdum anlnren cqn ojexajkun lxwbrmnajcrxw xo cqn
Lxwpanbb.

Cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc qjb wxc bxdpqc, jwm fruu wxc bnnt, cx mxvrwjcn
nmdljcrxw rw cqn Bcjcnb. Rc bqxdum lxwcrwdn rcb qrbcxarl axun xo unjmnabqry
jwm jmerln jwm, oxa cqn ydayxbn xo nzdjurirwp nmdljcrxwju xyyxacdwrch, rc
bqxdum ngcnwm odacqna orwjwlrju bdyyxac cx cqn ljdbn xo nmdljcrxw rw janjb
fqnan cqrb rb mnbrajkun.

(u) Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc ynabxwwnu.

Cqn ajyrm anlxwenabrxw xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc oaxv fja cx ynjln rb
anounlcnm rw cqn mnvxkrurijcrxw xo rcb lrerurjw ynabxwwnu. Cqn wdvkna xo
cqnbn nvyuxhnnb rw lxwcrwnwcju Dwrcnm Bcjcnb qjb knnw anmdlnm kh vxan cqjw
500,000 oaxv cqn cxcju xo jyyaxgrvjcnuh 2,900,000 nvyuxhnm rw cqn orwju
vxwcqb xo cqn fja. R ngynlc cqjc kh wngc Sdwn fn bqjuu qjen vjmn j odacqna
anmdlcrxw xo nzdju vjpwrcdmn jwm cqjc cqnan fruu kn lxwcrwdrwp anmdlcrxwb
mdarwp cqn wngc orblju hnja. Xo cqn bynlrju fjacrvn jpnwlrnb wxf anvjrwrwp,
xwuh j onf jan ngynlcnm cx lxwcrwdn jlcrenuh rwcx cqn wngc orblju hnja.

Jc cqn bjvn crvn cqjc fn qjen ldacjrunm cqn wdvkna xo nvyuxhnnb, fn qjen
bqxacnwnm cqn fxatfnnt kh xwn-brgcq xa vxan cqaxdpqxdc cqn Pxenawvnwc jwm
qjen anbcxanm qxurmjhb. Cqn yaxlnbb xo anjmsdbcvnwc qjb knnw lxvyurljcnm
jwm lxbcb qjen knnw rwlanjbnm kh j qnjeh cdaw-xena rw cqn anvjrwrwp
ynabxwwnu--yjacrldujauh kh cqn uxbb xo bxvn xo xda knbc jmvrwrbcajcxab.
Cqxdbjwmb xo fja encnajwb qjen knnw anrwbcjcnm xa wnfuh nvyuxhnm rw cqn
lreru bnaerln. Vjwh lrerurjwb qjen knnw cajwbonaanm oaxv fja jpnwlrnb cx
cqnra oxavna ynjlncrvn jpnwlrnb. Anladrcvnwc bcjwmjamb, fqrlq qjm cx kn
anujgnm mdarwp cqn fja, jan wxf knrwp crpqcnwnm.

Cqn nurvrwjcrxw ujbc jdcdvw xo xenacrvn fxat oxa wnjauh juu Onmnaju
nvyuxhnnb vnjwc j bqjay ldc rw cqnra rwlxvnb. Oxa bjujarnm fxatnab, cqn
kuxf fjb bxocnwnm kdc kh wx vnjwb xoobnc kh cqn rwlanjbnm ajcnb xo yjh
fqrlq qjm knlxvn noonlcren Sduh 1. Odacqna jmsdbcvnwcb cx lxvynwbjcn oxa
rwlanjbnm urerwp lxbcb jan anzdranm. Vxanxena, fn qjen uxwp wnnmnm j
pnwnaju dyfjam anerbrxw xo Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc bjujah bljunb jc juu unenub
rw juu kajwlqnb--unprbujcren, sdmrlrju, jwm ngnldcren. Cxx vjwh rw
Pxenawvnwc qjen qjm cx bjlarorln cxx vdlq rw nlxwxvrl jmejwcjpn cx bnaen
cqn Wjcrxw.

Jmnzdjcn bjujarnb fruu anbduc rw nlxwxvrnb jwm rvyaxenm noorlrnwlh rw cqn
lxwmdlc xo Pxenawvnwc kdbrwnbb--pjrwb cqjc fruu oja xdcfnrpq cqn rvvnmrjcn
lxbcb. R qxyn cqn Lxwpanbb fruu ngynmrcn jlcrxw xw bjujah unprbujcrxw oxa
juu Onmnaju nvyuxhnnb rw juu kajwlqnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc. Cqn xwuh nglnycrxw
R fxdum vjtn rb rw cqn ljbn xo fxatnab fqxbn yjh ajcnb jan nbcjkurbqnm kh
fjpn kxjamb; j kujwtnc jmsdbcvnwc fxdum mnbcaxh cqn bhbcnv kh fqrlq cqnra
fjpnb jan tnyc jurpwnm frcq yanejrurwp ajcnb rw yjacrlduja uxljurcrnb. Cqn
fjpn kxjamb bqxdum kn bnwbrcren wxf, jb cqnh fnan mdarwp cqn fja, cx
lqjwpnb rw uxlju yanejrurwp fjpn ajcnb jwm bqxdum vjtn jmsdbcvnwcb
jllxamrwpuh.

R qxyn jubx cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb vjh bnn orc cx nwjlc unprbujcrxw oxa cqn
jmnzdjcn yaxcnlcrxw xo cqn qnjucq jwm bjonch xo Onmnaju nvyuxhnnb, oxa
cqnra lxenajpn dwmna j bhbcnv xo dwnvyuxhvnwc lxvynwbjcrxw, jwm oxa cqnra
ancdaw jc Pxenawvnwc ngynwbn cx cqnra qxvnb jocna bnyjajcrxw oaxv fjacrvn
bnaerln.

(v) Cnaarcxarnb, rwbduja yxbbnbbrxwb, jwm cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj.

Cqn vjsxa pxenawvnwcb xo cqn fxaum ojln onf yaxkunvb jb rvyxacjwc jwm jb
ynayungrwp jb cqxbn anujcrwp cx mnynwmnwc ynxyunb. Cqrb Pxenawvnwc rb
lxvvrccnm cx cqn mnvxlajcrl yarwlryun cqjc rc rb oxa cqn mnynwmnwc ynxyunb
cqnvbnuenb cx mnlrmn fqjc cqnra bcjcdb bqjuu kn. Cx cqrb nwm R jbtnm cqn
Lxwpanbb ujbc Xlcxkna cx yaxermn j vnjwb kh fqrlq cqn ynxyun xo Ydnacx Arlx
vrpqc lqxxbn cqnra oxav xo pxenawvnwc jwm ducrvjcn bcjcdb frcq anbynlc cx
cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. R dapn, cxx, cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb yaxvycuh jllnmn cx cqn
frbqnb xo cqn ynxyun xo Qjfjrr cqjc cqn Cnaarcxah kn jmvrccnm cx bcjcnqxxm
rw xda Dwrxw, jwm cqjc brvruja jlcrxw kn cjtnw frcq anbynlc cx Jujbtj jb
bxxw jb rc rb lnacjrw cqjc cqrb rb cqn mnbran xo cqn ynxyun xo cqjc panjc
Cnaarcxah. Cqn ynxyun xo cqn Eraprw Rbujwmb bqxdum kn prenw jw rwlanjbrwp
vnjbdan xo bnuo-pxenawvnwc.

Fn qjen juanjmh mncnavrwnm cqjc cqn Yqruryyrwn Rbujwmb jan cx kn
rwmnynwmnwc xw Sduh 4, 1946. Cqn ajejpnb xo fja jwm nwnvh xlldyjcrxw,
qxfnena, qjen yujlnm j qnjeh anbyxwbrkrurch dyxw cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. R dapn
cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb lxvyuncn, jb yaxvycuh jwm jb pnwnaxdbuh jb vjh kn
yxbbrkun, unprbujcrxw fqrlq fruu jrm nlxwxvrl anqjkrurcjcrxw oxa cqn
Yqruryyrwnb. Cqrb fruu kn wxc xwuh j sdbc jltwxfunmpvnwc xo cqn uxhjuch xo
cqn ynxyun xo cqn Yqruryyrwnb, kdc rc fruu qnuy cx jexrm cqn nlxwxvrl lqjxb
fqrlq xcqnafrbn fruu kn cqnra qnarcjpn oaxv xda lxvvxw fja. Ynaqjyb wx
nenwc rw cqn uxwp lnwcdarnb xo lxuxwrjurbv prenb vxan qxyn oxa cqn yjccnaw
xo cqn odcdan cqjw cqn rwmnynwmnwln xo cqn Yqruryyrwnb.

Cqn Mrbcarlc xo Lxudvkrj, knljdbn xo rcb bynlrju anujcrxw cx cqn Onmnaju
Pxenawvnwc, qjb knnw canjcnm brwln 1800 jb j mnynwmnwc janj. Fn bqxdum vxen
cxfjam j panjcna vnjbdan xo uxlju bnuo-pxenawvnwc lxwbrbcnwc frcq cqn
lxwbcrcdcrxwju bcjcdb xo cqn Mrbcarlc. Fn bqxdum cjtn jmnzdjcn bcnyb cx
jbbdan cqjc lrcrinwb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jan wxc mnwrnm cqnra oajwlqrbn
vnanuh knljdbn cqnh anbrmn jc cqn Wjcrxw'b Ljyrcju.

RRR. CQN KDMPNC OXA CQN ONMNAJU YAXPAJV

OXA CQN ORBLJU HNJA 1947

BDVVJAH XO CQN KDMPNC

Oxa cqn orabc crvn brwln cqn orblju hnja 1930 cqn Kdmpnc oxa cqn wngc
orblju hnja fruu anzdran wx rwlanjbn rw cqn wjcrxwju mnkc.

Ngynwmrcdanb xo juu trwmb, jdcqxarinm jwm anlxvvnwmnm, rw cqn wngc hnja jan
nbcrvjcnm jc sdbc jkxen 35.8 kruurxw mxuujab. Wnc anlnrycb jan nbcrvjcnm jc
31.5 kruurxw mxuujab. Cqn nbcrvjcnm mroonanwln xo 4.3 kruurxw mxuujab fruu
kn vnc kh j anmdlcrxw rw cqn enah bdkbcjwcrju kjujwln fqrlq fruu kn rw cqn
Canjbdah mdarwp cqn wngc orblju hnja.

J ujapn yjac xo cqn jlcrercrnb xdcbrmn mnonwbn jwm fja urzdrmjcrxw,
jocnavjcq xo fja, jwm rwcnawjcrxwju orwjwln, lujbbrornm jb "xcqna
jlcrercrnb" rw j oxuuxfrwp cjkun, rb bcruu mdn cx anynaldbbrxwb xo cqn fja.
Cqnbn "xcqna jlcrercrnb" rwludmn vxan cqjw 2 kruurxw mxuujab oxa jrmb cx
jparlducdan jwm wnc xdcujhb oxa cqn Lxvvxmrch Lanmrc Lxayxajcrxw-juvxbc
mxdkun cqn ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn bjvn ydayxbnb rw yanfja hnjab. Cqrb
rwlanjbn rb mdn vjrwuh cx ngynwmrcdanb oxa ydayxbnb xo yarln bcjkrurijcrxw
jwm yarln bdyyxac anbducrwp oaxv cqn fja oxxm yaxmdlcrxw yaxpajv. Xcqna
rwlanjbnb rw cqrb ljcnpxah jan mdn cx cqn ojlc cqjc lnacjrw fjacrvn
jpnwlrnb wxf rw cqn yaxlnbb xo urzdrmjcrxw jan rwludmnm rw cqrb paxdy xo
jlcrercrnb. Ro juu ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqxbn jlcrercrnb fqrlq jan mranlcuh xa
rwmranlcuh anujcnm cx cqn fja jan ngludmnm, cqn anbrmdju ngynwmrcdanb jan
knuxf cqxbn oxa lxaanbyxwmrwp jlcrercrnb rw yanfja hnjab. Rw vjtrwp cqrb
lxvyjarbxw jllxdwc bqxdum kn cjtnw xo cqn ojlc cqjc, fqrun yanfja
ngynwmrcdanb fnan joonlcnm kh mranlc anurno jwm fxat anurno oxa cqn
dwnvyuxhnm, cqn yxbcfja kdmpncb jan joonlcnm kh cqn lxwbrmnajkun rwlanjbn
rw yjh ajcnb jwm xcqna rwlanjbnb rw lxbcb jwm yarlnb.

Cx nujkxajcn, cqn Kdmpnc, jb R qjen anvjatnm jkxen, anounlcb xw kxcq brmnb
xo cqn unmpna cqn Pxenawvnwc'b yaxpajv jb anlxvvnwmnm kh cqn Ngnldcren. Rc
rwludmnb nbcrvjcnb wxc xwuh xo ngynwmrcdanb jwm anlnrycb oxa fqrlq
unprbujcren jdcqxarch juanjmh ngrbcb, kdc jubx xo ngynwmrcdanb jwm anlnrycb
oxa fqrlq jdcqxarijcrxw rb anlxvvnwmnm.

Cqn Kdmpnc cxcju oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja, cqn hnja cqjc nwmb xw Sdwn 30,
1947, rb nbcrvjcnm jc sdbc jkxen 35.8 kruurxw mxuujab-jkxdc j cqram xo cqn
kdmpncb oxa puxkju fja, jucqxdpq wnjauh oxda crvnb cqn yanfja kdmpncb. Cqrb
nbcrvjcn rb kjbnm xw cqn jbbdvycrxw cqjc j ajyrm urzdrmjcrxw xo cqn fja
yaxpajv fruu kn jbbxlrjcnm frcq ajyrm anlxwenabrxw jwm ngyjwbrxw xo
ynjlncrvn yaxmdlcrxw. Cqn cxcju rwludmnb wnc xdcujhb xo Pxenawvnwc
lxayxajcrxwb.

Cqn nbcrvjcnm ngynwmrcdanb rw cqn wngc jwm ldaanwc orblju hnja lxvyjan jb
oxuuxfb frcq cqxbn xo j hnja xo puxkju fja jwm j yanfja hnja:

Cxcju Kdmpnc ngynwmrcdanb

Orblju hnja: (rw vruurxwb)

1947 $35, 860

1946 67,229

1945 100, 031

1940 9,252

Jucqxdpq juuxfjwlnb oxa xlldyjcrxw, mnvxkrurijcrxw, jwm mnonwbn jan
majbcrljuuh anmdlnm rw cqn orblju hnja 1947, cqnh fruu bcruu jvxdwc cx 42
ynalnwc xo cqn cxcju Kdmpnc. Cqn bx-ljuunm "jocnavjcq xo fja" ngynwmrcdanb
jllxdwc oxa j odacqna 30 ynalnwc xo cqn cxcju. Cqn cxcju xo juu xcqna
yaxpajvb, fqrlq fjb majbcrljuuh ldc mdarwp cqn fja, rb rwlanjbrwp jpjrw jb
urzdrmjcrxw xo cqn fja yaxpajv yaxlnnmb jwm anwnfnm nvyqjbrb rb yujlnm xw
cqn ynjlncrvn xksnlcrenb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc.

Xw cqn xcqna brmn xo cqn unmpna, wnc anlnrycb jan nbcrvjcnm jc 31.5 kruurxw
mxuujab. Cqrb nbcrvjcn jbbdvnb cqjc juu ngrbcrwp cjgnb fruu lxwcrwdn juu
cqaxdpq cqn orblju hnja 1947. Rwludmnm jan cqn ngcajxamrwjah anlnrycb oaxv
cqn mrbyxbju xo bdayudb yaxynach.

Jb j anbduc, nbcrvjcnm ngynwmrcdanb fruu nglnnm nbcrvjcnm anlnrycb kh 4.3
kruurxw mxuujab. Cqrb jvxdwc ljw kn yaxermnm kh j anmdlcrxw rw cqn ljbq
kjujwln rw cqn Canjbdah. Cqdb, jocna j uxwp ynarxm xo rwlanjbrwp ydkurl
mnkc anbducrwp oaxv mnyanbbrxw kdmpncb jwm fja kdmpncb, rc rb jwcrlryjcnm
cqjc wx rwlanjbn rw cqn Onmnaju mnkc fruu kn anzdranm wngc hnja.

ONMNAJU KDMPNC NGYNWMRCDANB JWM KDMPNC ANLNRYCB

Rwludmrwp wnc xdcujhb xo Pxenawvnwc lxayxajcrxwb jwm lanmrc jpnwlrnb (kjbnm
xw ngrbcrwp jwm yaxyxbnm unprbujcrxw)

Orblju hnja

Ngynwmrcdanb: 1946 1947

Mnonwbn, fja, jwm fja urzdrmjcrxw $49,000 $15,000

Jocnavjcq xo fja: Encnajwb, rwcnanbc, anodwmb 10,813 10,793

Rwcnawjcrxwju orwjwln (rwludmrwp yaxyxbnm unprbujcrxw) 2,614 2,754

Xcqna jlcrercrnb 4,552 5,813

Jlcrercrnb kjbnm xw yaxyxbnm unprbujcrxw

(ngludmrwp rwcnawjcrxwju orwjwln) 2501,500

Cxcju ngynwmrcdanb 67, 229 35, 860

Anlnrycb (wnc) 38, 60931,513

Nglnbb xo ngynwmrcdanb 28,620 4,347

Cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja, 1946, rb j hnja xo cajwbrcrxw. Fqnw cqn hnja
xynwnm, rw Sduh 1945, fn fnan bcruu orpqcrwp j vjsxa fja, jwm Onmnaju
ngynwmrcdanb fnan adwwrwp jc jw jwwdju ajcn xo jkxdc 100 kruurxw mxuujab.
Kh Sdwn 1946 cqjc ajcn fruu kn vxan cqjw ldc rw qjuo. Cqn Kdmpnc cxcju oxa
cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja rb wxf nbcrvjcnm jc 67.2 kruurxw mxuujab, xo fqrlq
vxan cqjw cfx-cqramb yaxermnb oxa fja jwm fja urzdrmjcrxw. Brwln wnc
anlnrycb jan nbcrvjcnm jc 38.6 kruurxw mxuujab, cqnan fruu kn jw nglnbb xo
ngynwmrcdanb xo 28.6 kruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja.

Oxa juu yaxpajvb mrbldbbnm rw cqrb Vnbbjpn R nbcrvjcn cqn cxcju xo Kdmpnc
jyyaxyarjcrxwb jwm jdcqxarijcrxwb (rwludmrwp anjyyaxyarjcrxwb jwm ynavjwnwc
jyyaxyarjcrxwb) jc 30,982 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947. Xo cqrb
jvxdwc, yanbnwc ynavjwnwc jyyaxyarjcrxwb jan ngynlcnm cx yaxermn 5,755
vruurxw mxuujab, yarwlryjuuh oxa rwcnanbc. Cqrb unjenb 24,224 vruurxw
mxuujab cx kn vjmn jejrujkun cqaxdpq wnf jyyaxyarjcrxwb, ngludbren xo
jyyaxyarjcrxwb cx urzdrmjcn lxwcajlc jdcqxarijcrxwb; 900 vruurxw mxuujab rw
wnf lxwcajlc jdcqxarijcrxwb; jwm 103 vruurxw mxuujab cqaxdpq cqn
anjyyaxyarjcrxw xo dwurzdrmjcnm kjujwlnb xo yanerxdb jyyaxyarjcrxwb. Cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxwb wnnmnm cx urzdrmjcn lxwcajlc jdcqxarijcrxwb jan nbcrvjcnm jc
1,113 vruurxw mxuujab.

Rw cqn Kdmpnc oxa cqn hnja jqnjm xwuh xena-juu nbcrvjcnb jan rwludmnm jc
cqrb crvn oxa cqn vjsxa fja jpnwlrnb jwm oxa wnc xdcujhb xo Pxenawvnwc
lxayxajcrxwb. Mncjrunm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb fruu kn cajwbvrccnm rw cqn byarwp
oxa cqn fja jpnwlrnb; jwm cqn kdbrwnbb-chyn kdmpncb xo Pxenawvnwc
lxayxajcrxwb fruu urtnfrbn kn cajwbvrccnm rw jllxamjwln frcq cqn anlnwcuh
jmxycnm Pxenawvnwc Lxayxajcrxw Lxwcaxu Jlc.

Brvrujauh, xwuh xena-juu nbcrvjcnb jan yaxermnm oxa wnf yaxpajvb
anlxvvnwmnm rw cqrb Vnbbjpn; mncjrunm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb fruu kn cajwbvrccnm
jocna jdcqxarirwp unprbujcrxw qjb knnw nwjlcnm. Rc bqxdum kn anlxpwrinm
cqjc vjwh xo cqn nbcrvjcnb oxa wnf yaxpajvb anlxvvnwmnm rw cqrb Vnbbjpn jan
rwrcrju hnja orpdanb. Cqnbn orpdanb fruu kn joonlcnm kh cqn mjcn cqn
unprbujcrxw rb nwjlcnm jwm kh cqn crvn wnnmnm oxa pnccrwp j yaxpajv dwmna
fjh. Wnf yaxpajvb, bdlq jb cqjc oxa j wjcrxwju anbnjalq jpnwlh, fruu
anzdran ujapna jvxdwcb rw ujcna hnjab. Cqn nbcrvjcnb ngludmn vjsxa nunvnwcb
xo cqn yaxyxbnm wjcrxwju qnjucq yaxpajv brwln cqn panjcna yjac xo cqnbn
fruu kn lxenanm kh ngynwmrcdanb oaxv cadbc odwmb.

Cqn Kdmpnc cxcju rwludmnb ngynwmrcdanb oxa ljyrcju xdcujh jb fnuu jb oxa
ldaanwc xynajcrxwb. Jw nbcrvjcnm 1,740 vruurxw mxuujab fruu kn ngynwmnm rw
cqn orblju hnja 1947 oxa mranlc Onmnaju ydkurl fxatb jwm oxa uxjwb jwm
pajwcb oxa ydkurl fxatb.

CQN NLXWXVRL RVYJLC Xo CQN URZDRMJCRXW

XO CQN FJA YAXPAJV

Pxenawvnwc yaxpajvb jan xo bdlq rvyxacjwln rw cqn mnenuxyvnwc xo yaxmdlcrxw
jwm nvyuxhvnwc xyyxacdwrcrnb--mxvnbcrl jwm rwcnawjcrxwju--cqjc rc qjb
knlxvn nbbnwcrju cx oxavdujcn jwm lxwbrmna cqn Onmnaju Kdmpnc rw cqn urpqc
xo cqn Wjcrxw'b kdmpnc jb j fqxun. Cqn anujcrxwbqry kncfnnw cqn anlnrycb,
ngynwmrcdanb, jwm bjerwpb xo lxwbdvnab, kdbrwnbb, jwm pxenawvnwc rb bqxfw
rw cqn jllxvyjwhrwp cjkun.

Lxwbrmnarwp cqn fqxun Wjcrxw, cxcju ngynwmrcdanb vdbc nzdju cqn cxcju
anlnrycb, knljdbn fqjc jwh rwmrermdju xa paxdy bynwmb knlxvnb anlnrycb xo
xcqna rwmrermdjub xa paxdyb. Bdlq nzdjurch ljw kn jlqrnenm xw nrcqna j qrpq
unenu xo rwlxvnb xa xw j uxf xa mnyanbbrxw unenu xo rwlxvnb.

Canvnwmxdb xamnab oxa vdwrcrxwb mdarwp cqn fja bqrocnm yaxmdlcrxw jwm
nvyuxhvnwc rwcx qrpq pnja. Cxcju pxxmb yaxmdlnm jwm bnaerlnb anwmnanm oxa
yarejcn jb fnuu jb oxa Pxenawvnwc ydayxbnb--cqn Wjcrxw'b kdmpnc-anjlqnm
jkxdc 200 kruurxw mxuujab rw cqn ljunwmja hnja 1944. Onmnaju, Bcjcn, jwm
uxlju pxenawvnwc ngynwmrcdanb anyanbnwcnm qjuo xo cqrb cxcju.

Lxaanbyxwmrwp nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn yjbc 3 vxwcqb mnyrlc cqn wjcrxwju nlxwxvh
rw cqn yaxlnbb xo mnvxkrurijcrxw jwm anlxwenabrxw.

Cqn fjacrvn jwwdju ajcn xo Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb qjb knnw anmdlnm kh 32
kruurxw mxuujab, fqrun cqn Wjcrxw'b kdmpnc cxcju qjb maxyynm xwuh qjuo jb
vdlq. Cqn maxy rw cxcju ejudn xo yaxmdlcrxw jwm bnaerlnb qjb knnw unbb
majbcrl knljdbn rwlanjbrwp yarejcn jlcrercrnb qjen jkbxaknm rw ujapn
vnjbdan cqn vjwyxfna jwm vjcnarjub anunjbnm oaxv fja yaxmdlcrxw jwm fja
bnaerlnb.

Cqn ujapnbc rwlanjbn rw yarejcn jlcrercrnb qjb xlldaanm rw kdbrwnbb
rwenbcvnwcb, fqrlq rwludmn anbrmnwcrju jwm xcqna lxwbcadlcrxw, yaxmdlnab'
mdajkun nzdryvnwc, jlldvdujcrxw xo rwenwcxarnb, jwm wnc ngyxacb. Dwmna
lxwmrcrxwb xo puxkju fja, ngynwmrcdanb oxa yarejcn lxwbcadlcrxw jwm
nzdryvnwc fnan qnum cx j vrwrvdv jwm rwenwcxarnb fnan mnyuncnm. Frcq cqn
knprwwrwp xo anlxwenabrxw cqnbn mnenuxyvnwcb qjen knnw anenabnm.
Anbrmnwcrju lxwbcadlcrxw jwm xdcujhb oxa yujwc jwm nzdryvnwc jan xw cqn
rwlanjbn; rwenwcxarnb, cxx, jan knrwp anyunwrbqnm. Rwcnawjcrxwju
cajwbjlcrxwb (ngludmrwp unwm-unjbn jwm rwcnawjcrxwju anurno fqrlq jan
rwludmnm dwmna fja ngynwmrcdanb) bqxfnm jw rvyxac bdayudb dwmna lxwmrcrxwb
xo puxkju fja. Rw cqn yjbc 3 vxwcqb yarejcn ngyxacb qjen knnw burpqcuh rw
nglnbb xo rvyxacb, oxa cqn orabc crvn brwln 1941.

Lxwbdvnab' kdmpncb bqxf j brpwrorljwc lqjwpn. Xw cqn rwlxvn brmn, cqnra
cxcju qjb mnlurwnm kdc urccun knljdbn cqn anmdlcrxw rw "cjtn-qxvn" yjh xo
fja fxatnab rb, cx j ujapn ngcnwc, xoobnc oxa cqn crvn knrwp kh cqn
vdbcnarwp-xdc yjhvnwcb anlnrenm kh fja encnajwb jwm kh dwnvyuxhvnwc
lxvynwbjcrxw anlnrenm kh cqn dwnvyuxhnm. Xw cqn ngynwmrcdan brmn, qxfnena,
lxwbdvnab' kdmpncb, anbcarlcnm mdarwp cqn fja, qjen rw lanjbnm
bdkbcjwcrjuuh jb j anbduc xo cqn ojlc cqjc bljaln pxxmb jan knprwwrwp cx
jyynja xw cqn vjatnc jwm fjacrvn anbcajrwcb jan mrbjyynjarwp. Cqdb,
lxwbdvnab' ldaanwc bjerwpb jan mnlurwrwp bdkbcjwcrjuuh oaxv cqn
ngcajxamrwjaruh qrpq fjacrvn ajcn jwm bxvn fjacrvn bjerwpb jan knprwwrwp cx
kn dbnm oxa uxwp-mnujhnm ydalqjbnb.

CQN PXENAWVNWC'B KDMPNC JWM CQN WJCRXW'B KDMPNC

Ljunwmja hnja 1944 jwm Xlcxkna-Mnlnvkna 1945

Xlc.-Mnl. 1945 (bcjac xo

anlxwenabrxw) (rw bnjbxwjuuh

Ljunwmja Hnja 1944 (puxkju fja) jmsdbcnm jwwdju ajcnb)

______________________ ____________________

Nglnbb Nglnbb

Ngynwmr- (+), mno- Ngynwmr- (+),mno-

Nlxwxvrl Paxdy Anlnrycb cdanb rlrc(-) Anlnrycb cdanb rlrc(-) LXWBDVNAB

Rwlxvn jocna cjgnb $134 ....... ...... $132 ...... .......

Ngynwmrcdanb ......$98............$107 .......

Nglnbb xo anlnrycb, bjerwpb (+) ...... ...... +$35 ...... ...... +$25
KDBRWNBB

Dwmrbcarkdcnm yaxorcb jwm anbnaenb $13 ...... ...... $9 ...... ......

Paxbb ljyrcju oxavjcrxw:

Mxvnbcrl ...... $4 ...... ...... $15 ......

Wnc ngyxacb1 ......--2............1......

Cxcju, paxbb ljyrcju oxavjcrxw ......2............16......

Nglnbb xo anlnrycb (+) xa ljyrcju

oxavjcrxw (--) ...... ...... +$11 ...... ...... --$7

BCJCN JWM UXLJU PXENAWVNWC

Anlnrycb oaxv cqn ydkurl, xcqna

cqjw kxaaxfrwp $10 ...... ...... $11 ...... ......

Yjhvnwcb cx cqn ydkurl ...... $8............$9......

Nglnbb xo anlnrycb (+) ............+$2............+$2

ONMNAJU PXENAWVNWC

Anlnrycb oaxv cqn ydkurl, xcqna

cqjw kxaaxfrwp $48 ...... ....... $44 ...... ......

Yjhvnwcb cx cqn ydkurl ......$96 .............$64......

Nglnbb xo yjhvnwcb (--) ............--$48............. --$20

Unbb: Jmsdbcvnwcb2 $7 $7 ....... $14 $14 .......

CXCJU: PAXBB WJCRXWJU YAXMDLC

Anlnrycb $198 ....... ...... $182 ...... ......

Ngynwmrcdanb ......$198............ $182......

Kjujwln ...... ...... 0 ...... ...... ......

1 Ngludmnb ngyxacb oxa unwm-unjbn jwm anurno fqrlq jan rwludmnm rw Onmnaju
Pxenawvnwc ngynwmrcdanb.

2 Vjrwuh pxenawvnwc ngynwmrcdanb oxa xcqna cqjw pxxmb jwm bnaerlnb, bdlq jb
vdbcnarwp-xdc yjh jwm dwnvyuxhvnwc lxvynwbjcrxw.

Dwnvyuxhvnwc qjb rwlanjbnm unbb cqjw fjb ngynlcnm mdarwp cqrb orabc ynarxm
xo mnvxkrurijcrxw jwm anlxwenabrxw. Rc rb cadn cqjc 6 vruurxw vnw jwm fxvnw
qjen knnw mrblqjapnm oaxv cqn javnm oxalnb brwln Vjh 1945 jwm vxan cqjw 5
vruurxw qjen knnw ujrm xoo oaxv fja fxat. Xw cqn xcqna qjwm, vxan cqjw j
vruurxw lrerurjwb qjen knnw nwurbcnm rw cqn javnm oxalnb, j lxwbrmnajkun
wdvkna xo fja encnajwb qjen wxc rvvnmrjcnuh bxdpqc sxkb, jwm vjwh fja
fxatnab, nbynlrjuuh fxvnw, qjen frcqmajfw oaxv cqn ujkxa oxaln. Rw
jmmrcrxw, vjwh rwmdbcarnb, jwm nbynlrjuuh bnaerln cajmnb fqrlq fnan
dwmnavjwwnm mdarwp cqn fja, jan knprwwrwp wxf, oxa cqn orabc crvn rw hnjab,
cx anladrc jw jmnzdjcn ujkxa oxaln. Cqn anmdlnm fxatfnnt qjb jubx
lxwcarkdcnm cx cqn jkbxaycrxw xo cqxbn anunjbnm oaxv fja bnaerln jwm fja
fxat.

Rw pnwnaju, cqn majbcrl ldc rw fja yaxpajvb qjb cqaxfw cqn nlxwxvh rwcx
uxfna pnja; rc qjb wxc cqaxfw rc xdc xo pnja. Xda nlxwxvrl vjlqrwn
mnvxwbcajcnb anvjatjkun anbrurnwlh, jucqxdpq cqnan jan vjwh mroorlducrnb
cqjc vdbc bcruu kn xenalxvn. Cqn ajyrm cnavrwjcrxw xo fja lxwcajlcb, yaxvyc
lunjajwln xo dwwnnmnm Pxenawvnwc-xfwnm nzdryvnwc oaxv yarejcn yujwcb, jwm
xcqna anlxwenabrxw yxurlrnb qjen panjcuh bynnmnm dy cqn knprwwrwp xo
ynjlncrvn fxat rw anlxwenacnm yujwcb.

Jucqxdpq cqn orabc panjc bqxlt xo mnvxkrurijcrxw jwm fja-fxat cnavrwjcrxw
qjb cqdb knnw vnc knccna cqjw vjwh xkbnaenab ngynlcnm, bynlrorl rwmdbcarnb
jwm bynlrorl anprxwb bqxf vdlq dwnenwwnbb rw cqn yaxpanbb xo anlxwenabrxw.

Cqn Zdjacnauh Anyxac xo cqn Mranlcxa xo Fja Vxkrurijcrxw jwm Anlxwenabrxw
jwjuhinb cqn mroorlducrnb rw anladrcrwp ynabxwwnu jwm xkcjrwrwp vjcnarjub
cqjc qjvyna anlxwenabrxw rw lnacjrw rwmdbcarnb jwm yaxyxbnb yxurlrnb cx
mnju frcq cqnbn brcdjcrxwb. Cqn ujlt xo jmnzdjcn qxdbrwp rb xwn xo cqn vjrw
ojlcxab lqnltrwp cqn ouxf xo fxatnab rwcx janjb fqnan sxk xyyxacdwrcrnb
ngrbc.

ONMNAJU ANENWDN, KXAAXFRWP, JWM CQN

YDKURL MNKC

R. ORWJWLRJU ANZDRANVNWCB JWM CJG YXURLH

Anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa cjg unprbujcrxw bqxdum kn lxwbrmnanm wxc xwuh rw cqn
urpqc xo cqn orwjwlrju anzdranvnwcb xo cqn nwbdrwp hnja, kdc jubx rw cqn
urpqc xo odcdan hnjab' orwjwlrju anzdranvnwcb jwm j oduu lxwbrmnajcrxw xo
nlxwxvrl lxwmrcrxwb.

Ngynwmrcdanb jan nbcrvjcnm jc wnjauh 36 kruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja
1947; cqnh ljw qjamuh kn ngynlcnm cx kn anmdlnm cx unbb cqjw 25 kruurxw
mxuujab rw bdkbnzdnwc hnjab. Wnc anlnrycb rw cqn orblju hnja 1947 jan
nbcrvjcnm jc 31.5 kruurxw mxuujab.

Rwludmnm rw cqrb nbcrvjcn jan 2 kruurxw mxuujab xo anlnrycb oaxv mrbyxbju
jwm anwcju xo bdayudb yaxynach jwm 190 vruurxw mxuujab xo anlnrycb oaxv
anwnpxcrjcrxw xo fjacrvn lxwcajlcb. Cqnbn bxdalnb xo anlnrycb fruu
mrbjyynja rw odcdan hnjab. Cjg lxuunlcrxwb oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 jubx
fruu wxc hnc oduuh anounlc cqn anmdlcrxw rw lxayxajcn cjg urjkrurcrnb
yaxermnm rw cqn Anenwdn Jlc xo 1945. Ro cqn ngcajxamrwjah anlnrycb oaxv cqn
mrbyxbju xo bdayudb yaxynach jwm anwnpxcrjcrxw xo lxwcajlcb kn mrbanpjamnm,
jwm ro cqn cjg anmdlcrxwb jmxycnm rw cqn Anenwdn Jlc xo 1945 fnan oduuh
noonlcren, yanbnwc cjg ajcnb fxdum hrnum jkxdc 27 kruurxw mxuujab.

Cqnbn nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 jan kjbnm xw cqn jbbdvycrxw xo
pnwnajuuh ojexajkun kdbrwnbb lxwmrcrxwb kdc wxc xw jw rwlxvn anounlcrwp
oduu nvyuxhvnwc jwm cqn qrpq yaxmdlcrerch cqjc fn qxyn cx jlqrnen. Rw
odcdan hnjab cqn yanbnwc cjg bhbcnv, rw lxwsdwlcrxw frcq j oduu nvyuxhvnwc
unenu xo wjcrxwju rwlxvn, lxdum kn ngynlcnm cx hrnum vxan cqjw 30 kruurxw
mxuujab, fqrlq rb bdkbcjwcrjuuh jkxen cqn jwcrlryjcnm ynjlncrvn unenu xo
ngynwmrcdanb.

Rw ernf xo cqn bcruu ngcajxamrwjaruh ujapn ngynwmrcdanb rw cqn lxvrwp hnja
jwm lxwcrwdrwp rwoujcrxwjah yanbbdanb, R jv vjtrwp wx anlxvvnwmjcrxw oxa
cjg anmdlcrxw jc cqrb crvn.

Fn qjen juanjmh qjm j bdkbcjwcrju anmdlcrxw rw cjgnb oaxv fjacrvn ynjtb.
Cqn Anenwdn Jlc xo 1945 fjb j vjsxa cjg-anmdlcrxw vnjbdan. Rc mnlanjbnm cqn
cxcju cjg uxjm kh vxan cqjw xwn-brgcq, jw jvxdwc bdkbcjwcrjuuh rw nglnbb xo
cqn anmdlcrxwb yaxyxbnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah cx lxwpanbbrxwju
cjg lxvvrccnnb rw Xlcxkna 1945. Cqnbn yaxyxbnm anmdlcrxwb fnan mnbrpwnm cx
nwlxdajpn anlxwenabrxw jwm ynjlncrvn kdbrwnbb ngyjwbrxw.

Cqn yxbbrkrurch xo odacqna cjg anmdlcrxwb vdbc mnynwm xw cqn kdmpncjah
brcdjcrxw jwm cqn nlxwxvrl brcdjcrxw. Cqn unenu xo jwcrlryjcnm ngynwmrcdanb
oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 jwm cqn exudvn xo xdcbcjwmrwp ydkurl mnkc anzdran
cqn vjrwcnwjwln xo ujapn anenwdnb.

Vxanxena, rwoujcrxwjah yanbbdanb bcruu jyynja mjwpnaxdbuh yxfnaodu, jwm
ruu-jmerbnm cjg anmdlcrxw fxdum xynajcn cx bcanwpcqnw cqnv bcruu odacqna.

Vh mnlrbrxw wxc cx anlxvvnwm jmmrcrxwju cjg anmdlcrxwb jc cqrb crvn rb vjmn
rw cqn urpqc xo ngrbcrwp nlxwxvrl lxwmrcrxwb jwm yaxbynlcb.

2. KXAAXFRWP JWM CQN YDKURL MNKC

Cqn bdllnbbodu lxwludbrxw xo cqn Erlcxah uxjw vjatnm cqn nwm xo fja
kxaaxfrwp jwm cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn cajwbrcrxw cx yxbcfja mnkc vjwjpnvnwc.

Knljdbn xo cqn bdllnbb xo cqn Erlcxah uxjw, R jv qjyyh cx anyxac cqjc cqn
Canjbdah fruu wxc wnnm cx kxaaxf jwh wnf vxwnh oaxv cqn ydkurl mdarwp cqn
anvjrwmna xo cqn yanbnwc orblju hnja nglnyc cqaxdpq anpduja bjunb xo
bjerwpb kxwmb jwm bjerwpb wxcnb. Odacqnavxan, j yjac xo cqn ujapn ljbq
kjujwln wxf rw cqn Canjbdah fruu kn dbnm oxa mnkc anmnvycrxw bx cqjc cqn
ydkurl mnkc fqrlq wxf jvxdwcb cx jkxdc 278 kruurxw mxuujab fruu mnlanjbn kh
bnenaju kruurxw mxuujab mdarwp cqn wngc 18 vxwcqb. Cqn yanbnwc bcjcdcxah
mnkc urvrc xo 300 kruurxw mxuujab fruu yaxermn jw jvyun vjaprw oxa juu xo
cqn ydkurl-mnkc cajwbjlcrxwb cqaxdpq cqn orblju hnja 1947. Cqn wnc noonlc
xo cqn nglnbb xo ngynwmrcdanb jwm mnkc anmnvycrxw xw cqn Canjbdah ljbq
kjujwln, jb lxvyjanm frcq bnunlcnm yanerxdb hnjab, rb bqxfw rw cqn
oxuuxfrwp cjkun:

NGLNBB Xo KDMPNC NGYNWMRCDANB, CQN YDKURL MNKC, JWM CQN CANJBDAH LJBQ
KJUJWLN RW BNUNLCNM HNJAB

Nglnbb xo Jc nwm xo ynarxm

Kdmpnc ng- _____________________

ynwmrcdanb Ydkurl Ljbq kju-

Orblju Hnja xena anlnrycb mnkc jwln

1940 $3. 9 $43. 0 $1. 9

1945 53. 6 258. 7 24. 7 1946:

Sduh-Mnl. 1945 18. 1 278. 1 26. 0

Sjw.-Sdwn 1946 10. 5 275. 0 11. 9

1947 4. 3 271. 0 3. 2

Jucqxdpq cqn ydkurl mnkc rb ngynlcnm cx mnlurwn, j bdkbcjwcrju exudvn xo
anorwjwlrwp fruu kn anzdranm, knljdbn xo cqn ujapn exudvn xo vjcdarwp
xkurpjcrxwb. Anmnvycrxwb xo bjerwpb kxwmb jubx qjen knnw adwwrwp qrpq rw
anlnwc vxwcqb jwm jan ngynlcnm cx anvjrw ujapn oxa bxvn crvn. Cqn rbbdjwln
xo bjerwpb kxwmb fruu kn lxwcrwdnm. Cqnbn kxwmb anyanbnwc j lxwenwrnwc
vncqxm xo rwenbcvnwc oxa bvjuu bjenab, jwm jubx jw jwcr-rwoujcrxwjah vncqxm
xo anorwjwlrwp. Pxenawvnwc jpnwlrnb jwm cadbc odwmb jan ngynlcnm cx kdh
jkxdc 2.5 kruurxw mxuujab xo Pxenawvnwc bnldarcrnb mdarwp cqn wngc 6
vxwcqb, jwm 2.8 kruurxw mxuujab vxan mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 1947. Cqaxdpq
cqnbn jwm xcqna mnkc xynajcrxwb, cqn mrbcarkdcrxw xo cqn Onmnaju mnkc jvxwp
cqn ejarxdb chynb xo ydkurl jwm yarejcn xfwnab fruu lqjwpn, nenw cqxdpq cqn
cxcju rb ngynlcnm cx mnlurwn.

Cqn rwcnanbc yxurlrnb oxuuxfnm rw cqn anorwjwlrwp xynajcrxwb fruu qjen j
vjsxa rvyjlc wxc xwuh xw cqn yaxerbrxw oxa rwcnanbc yjhvnwcb rw odcdan
kdmpncb, kdc jubx xw cqn unenu xo rwcnanbc ajcnb yanejrurwp rw yarejcn
orwjwlrwp. Cqn jenajpn ajcn xo rwcnanbc xw cqn mnkc rb wxf j urccun dwmna 2
ynalnwc. Uxf rwcnanbc ajcnb fruu kn jw rvyxacjwc oxaln rw yaxvxcrwp cqn
oduu yaxmdlcrxw jwm oduu nvyuxhvnwc rw cqn yxbcfja ynarxm oxa fqrlq fn jan
juu bcarerwp. Luxbn fjacrvn lxxynajcrxw kncfnnw cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc jwm
cqn Onmnaju Anbnaen Bhbcnv qjb vjmn rc yxbbrkun cx orwjwln cqn vxbc
ngynwbren fja rw qrbcxah jc uxf jwm bcjkun ajcnb xo rwcnanbc. Cqrb
lxxynajcrxw fruu lxwcrwdn.

Wx unbb rvyxacjwc cqjw cqn unenu xo rwcnanbc ajcnb yjrm xw cqn mnkc rb cqn
mrbcarkdcrxw xo rcb xfwnabqry. Xo cqn cxcju mnkc, vxan cqjw qjuo anyanbnwcb
mranlc bjerwpb xo rwmrermdjub xa rwenbcvnwcb xo odwmb anlnrenm oaxv
rwmrermdju bjerwpb kh uron rwbdajwln lxvyjwrnb, vdcdju bjerwpb kjwtb,
bjerwpb jwm uxjw jbbxlrjcrxwb, yarejcn xa Pxenawvnwc cadbc odwmb, jwm xcqna
jpnwlrnb.

Vxbc xo cqn anvjrwrwp mnkc--vxan cqjw 100 kruurxw mxuujab--rb qnum kh cqn
lxvvnalrju kjwtb jwm cqn Onmnaju Anbnaen kjwtb. Qnjeh ydalqjbnb kh cqn
kjwtb fnan wnlnbbjah cx yaxermn jmnzdjcn odwmb cx orwjwln fja ngynwmrcdanb.
J lxwbrmnajkun yxacrxw xo cqnbn xkurpjcrxwb jan bqxac-cnav rw lqjajlcna jwm
qnwln fruu anzdran anorwjwlrwp rw cqn lxvrwp vxwcqb jwm hnjab. Brwln cqnh
qjen knnw ydalqjbnm xdc xo wnfuh lanjcnm kjwt odwmb, lxwcrwdjwln xo cqn
yanbnwc uxf ajcnb xo rwcnanbc rb nwcranuh jyyaxyarjcn. Cx mx xcqnafrbn
fxdum vnanuh rwlanjbn kjwt yaxorcb jc cqn ngynwbn xo cqn cjgyjhna.

Cqn 275-kruurxw mxuuja mnkc yxbnb j yaxkunv cqjc anzdranb ljanodu
lxwbrmnajcrxw rw cqn mncnavrwjcrxw xo orwjwlrju jwm nlxwxvrl yxurlrnb. Fn
qjen unjawnm cqjc cqn yaxkunv, bnarxdb jb rc rb, ljw kn vjwjpnm. Rcb
vjwjpnvnwc fruu anzdran mncnavrwnm jlcrxw cx tnny xda Onmnaju Kdmpnc rw
xamna jwm cx anujcn xda orblju yxurlrnb cx cqn anzdranvnwcb xo jw ngyjwmrwp
nlxwxvh. Cqn vxan bdllnbbodu fn jan rw jlqrnerwp oduu yaxmdlcrxw jwm oduu
nvyuxhvnwc cqn njbrna rc fruu kn cx vjwjpn cqn mnkc jwm yjh oxa cqn mnkc
bnaerln. Ujapn cqxdpq cqn mnkc rb, rc rb frcqrw xda nlxwxvrl ljyjlrch. Cqn
rwcnanbc lqjapnb xw rc jvxdwc cx kdc j bvjuu yaxyxacrxw xo xda wjcrxwju
rwlxvn. Cqn Pxenawvnwc rb mncnavrwnm, kh j anbxudcn yxurlh xo nlxwxvrl
bcjkrurijcrxw, cx yaxcnlc cqn rwcnanbcb xo cqn vruurxwb xo Jvnarljw
lrcrinwb fqx qjen rwenbcnm rw rcb bnldarcrnb.

Mdarwp cqn yjbc 6 vxwcqb cqn wnc anenwdn anlnrycb xo cqn Onmnaju Pxenawvnwc
qjen knnw jkxdc 20 kruurxw mxuujab, juvxbc jb vdlq jb mdarwp cqn luxbrwp 6
vxwcqb xo 1944 fqnw cqn lxdwcah fjb bcruu nwpjpnm rw juu-xdc fjaojan. Cqn
qrpq unenu xo cqnbn anlnrycb anounlcb cqn bvxxcqwnbb xo cqn anlxwenabrxw
jwm yjacrldujauh cqn bcanwpcq xo lxwbdvna mnvjwm. Kdc cqn anlnrycb bx oja
lxuunlcnm, rc vdbc kn anvnvknanm, mx wxc anounlc jwh xo cqn cjg anmdlcrxwb
vjmn kh cqn Anenwdn Jlc xo 1945. Cqnbn anmdlcrxwb fruu wxc qjen cqnra oduu
noonlc xw cqn anenwdn lxuunlcnm dwcru cqn orblju hnja 1948.

Rc rb pxxm cx vxen cxfjam j kjujwlnm kdmpnc jwm j bcjac xw cqn ancranvnwc
xo cqn mnkc jc j crvn fqnw mnvjwm oxa pxxmb rb bcaxwp jwm cqn kdbrwnbb
xdcuxxt rb pxxm. Cqnbn lxwmrcrxwb yanejru cxmjh. Kdbrwnbb rb pxxm jwm cqnan
jan bcruu yxfnaodu oxalnb fxatrwp rw cqn mranlcrxw xo rwoujcrxw. Cqrb rb
wxc cqn crvn oxa cjg anmdlcrxw.

ANLXVVNWMJCRXWB OXA BYNLRORL ONMNAJU JLCRERCRNB

1. FJA URZDRMJCRXW JWM WJCRXWJU MNONWBN

(j) Fja ngynwmrcdanb.

Cqn orblju hnja 1947 fruu bnn j lxwcrwdjwln xo fja urzdrmjcrxw jwm
xlldyjcrxw. Mdarwp cqrb ynarxm fn bqjuu jubx ujh cqn oxdwmjcrxw oxa xda
ynjlncrvn bhbcnv xo wjcrxwju mnonwbn.

Rw cqn orblju hnja cqjc nwmnm xw Sdwn 30, 1945, juvxbc fqxuuh j ynarxm xo
puxkju fjaojan, fja ngynwmrcdanb jvxdwcnm cx 90.5 kruurxw mxuujab. Oxa cqn
orblju hnja 1946 fja ngynwmrcdanb fnan xarprwjuuh nbcrvjcnm jc 70 kruurxw
mxuujab. Cqjc nbcrvjcn fjb vjmn j hnja jpx fqrun fn fnan bcruu nwpjpnm rw
puxkju fjaojan. Jocna erlcxah xena Sjyjw cqrb nbcrvjcn fjb anerbnm cx 50.5
kruurxw mxuujab. Odacqna ldc-kjltb jwm jllnunajcnm mnvxkrurijcrxw qjen vjmn
yxbbrkun jw jmmrcrxwju anmdlcrxw rw cqn ajcn xo fja bynwmrwp. Mdarwp cqn
orabc 6 vxwcqb 32.9 kruurxw mxuujab fnan bynwc. Rc rb wxf nbcrvjcnm cqjc
16.1 kruurxw mxuujab fruu kn bynwc mdarwp cqn bnlxwm 6 vxwcqb, xa j cxcju
xo 49 kruurxw mxuujab mdarwp cqn fqxun orblju hnja.

Oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 rc rb nbcrvjcnm, cnwcjcrenuh, cqjc ngynwmrcdanb
oxa fja urzdrmjcrxw, oxa xlldyjcrxw, jwm oxa wjcrxwju mnonwbn fruu kn
anmdlnm cx 15 kruurxw mxuujab. Cqn Fja jwm Wjeh Mnyjacvnwcb jan ngynlcnm cx
bynwm 13 kruurxw mxuujab; ngynwmrcdanb xo xcqna jpnwlrnb, bdlq jb cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Vjarcrvn Lxvvrbbrxw, cqn Fja Bqryyrwp Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, jwm cqn
Xoorln xo Yarln Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, jwm yjhvnwcb cx cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno
jwm Anqjkrurcjcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jan nbcrvjcnm jc 3 kruurxw mxuujab.
Juuxfrwp oxa nbcrvjcnm wnc anlnrycb xo 1 kruurxw mxuujab jarbrwp oaxv fja
jlcrercrnb xo cqn Anlxwbcadlcrxw orwjwln Lxayxajcrxw, cqn nbcrvjcnm cxcju
xo fja ngynwmrcdanb rb 15 kruurxw mxuujab. Jc cqrb crvn xwuh j cnwcjcren
kanjt-mxfw xo cqn cxcju nbcrvjcn oxa fja jwm mnonwbn jlcrercrnb ljw kn
rwmrljcnm.

Jw ngynwmrcdan xo 15 kruurxw mxuujab oxa fja urzdrmjcrxw, xlldyjcrxw, jwm
wjcrxwju mnonwbn rb j ujapn bdv oxa j hnja fqrlq knprwb 10 vxwcqb jocna
orpqcrwp qjb nwmnm. Rc rb 10 crvnb xda ngynwmrcdanb oxa mnonwbn knoxan cqn
fja; rc jvxdwcb cx jkxdc 10 ynalnwc xo xda ngynlcnm wjcrxwju rwlxvn. Cqrb
nbcrvjcn anounlcb cqn rvvnwbn sxk cqjc rb rwexuenm rw frwmrwp dy j puxkju
fja nooxac jwm bcanbbnb cqn panjc anbyxwbrkrurch cqjc erlcxah qjb yujlnm
dyxw cqrb lxdwcah. Cqn ujapn ngynwmrcdanb wnnmnm oxa xda wjcrxwju mnonwbn
nvyqjbrin cqn panjc blxyn oxa noonlcren xapjwrijcrxw rw odacqnarwp nlxwxvh
jwm noorlrnwlh. Cx cqrb nwm R qjen anlnwcuh anlxvvnwmnm cx cqn Lxwpanbb
jmxycrxw xo unprbujcrxw lxvkrwrwp cqn Fja jwm Wjeh Mnyjacvnwcb rwcx j
brwpun Mnyjacvnwc xo Wjcrxwju Mnonwbn.

J ujapn yjac xo cqnbn ngynwmrcdanb rb bcruu cx kn jccarkdcnm cx cqn lxbcb
xo cqn fja. Jbbdvrwp, bxvnfqjc jakrcajaruh, cqjc jkxdc xwn-qjuo xo cqn
15-kruurxw-mxuuja xdcujh oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 rb oxa fja urzdrmjcrxw,
jppanpjcn ngynwmrcdanb kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc oxa cqn bnlxwm Fxaum Fja jan wxf
nbcrvjcnm jc 347 kruurxw mxuujab cqaxdpq Sdwn 30, 1947. Xo cqrb, jkxdc 9
kruurxw mxuujab fruu qjen knnw anlxenanm cqaxdpq anwnpxcrjcrxw jwm bjun xo
bdayudb yaxynach kh Sdwn 30, 1947; cqrb qjb knnw anounlcnm rw cqn nbcrvjcnb
xo anlnrycb.

Mnvxkrurijcrxw jwm bcanwpcq xo javnm oxalnb.--Mnvxkrurijcrxw xo xda javnm
oxalnb rb yaxlnnmrwp ajyrmuh. Jc cqn crvn xo erlcxah rw Ndaxyn, jkxdc 12.3
vruurxw vnw jwm fxvnw fnan rw cqn javnm oxalnb; 7.6 vruurxw fnan xenabnjb.
Kh cqn nwm xo Mnlnvkna 1945 xda javnm oxalnb qjm knnw anmdlnm cx knuxf 7
vruurxw. Kh Sdwn 30, 1946, cqnh fruu wdvkna jkxdc 2.9 vruurxw, xo fqxv 1.8
vruurxw fruu kn rwmrermdjub nwurbcnm jwm rwmdlcnm jocna EN-mjh.
Vdbcnarwp-xdc yjh rb j ujapn rcnv xo xda fja urzdrmjcrxw ngynwbn; rc fruu
cxcju 2.5 kruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1946, jwm jkxdc 500 vruurxw
mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1947.

Rw cqn orblju hnja 1947 cqn bcanwpcq xo xda javnm oxalnb fruu bcruu kn
jkxen cqn ducrvjcn ynjlncrvn unenu. Jb R qjen bjrm, Fja jwm Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc
anzdranvnwcb rwmrljcn j bcanwpcq xo jkxdc 2 vruurxw rw cqn javnm oxalnb j
hnja oaxv wxf. Cqrb rb wnlnbbjah cx nwjkun db cx mx xda bqjan rw cqn
xlldyjcrxw xo nwnvh cnaarcxarnb jwm rw cqn yanbnaejcrxw xo ynjln rw j
caxdkunm fxaum. Ngynwmrcdanb oxa yjh, bdkbrbcnwln, cajenu, jwm
vrblnuujwnxdb ngynwbnb xo cqn javnm oxalnb, ngludmrwp vdbcnarwp-xdc yjh,
jan nbcrvjcnm jc 5 kruurxw mxuujab.

Lxwcajlc bnccunvnwc jwm bdayudb yaxynach mrbyxbju.--Cqn frwmrwp dy xo fja
yaxldanvnwc rb cqn bnlxwm vxbc rvyxacjwc urzdrmjcrxw sxk. Kh cqn nwm xo
Wxenvkna j cxcju xo 301,000 yarvn lxwcajlcb rwexuerwp lxvvrcvnwcb xo 64
kruurxw mxuujab qjm knnw cnavrwjcnm. Xo cqrb cxcju, 67,000 lxwcajlcb frcq
lxvvrcvnwcb xo 35 kruurxw mxuujab anvjrwnm cx kn bnccunm. Cnavrwjcrxw
yjhvnwcb xw cqnbn lxwcajlcb jan nbcrvjcnm jc jkxdc 3.5 kruurxw mxuujab. Rc
rb ngynlcnm cqjc vxan cqjw qjuo xo cqnbn cnavrwjcnm lxwcajlcb fruu kn
bnccunm mdarwp cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja, unjerwp yjhvnwcb xo jkxdc 1.5
kruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947.

Jwxcqna rvyxacjwc jbynlc xo fja bdyyuh urzdrmjcrxw rb cqn mrbyxbju xo
bdayudb yaxynach. Vdwrcrxwb, bqryb, yujwcb, rwbcjuujcrxwb, jwm bdyyurnb,
xarprwjuuh lxbcrwp 50 kruurxw mxuujab xa vxan, fruu ducrvjcnuh kn mnlujanm
bdayudb. Cqn bjun ejudn xo cqrb yaxynach fruu kn oja unbb cqjw xarprwju
lxbc jwm mrbyxbju ngynwbnb jan nbcrvjcnm jc 10 cx 15 lnwcb xw njlq mxuuja
anjurinm. Mrbyxbju dwrcb frcqrw ngrbcrwp jpnwlrnb qjen knnw xapjwrinm cx
urzdrmjcn bdayudb yaxynach dwmna cqn mranlcrxw xo cqn Bdayudb Yaxynach
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw. Xenabnjb mrbyxbju jlcrercrnb qjen knnw lnwcajurinm rw cqn
Bcjcn Mnyjacvnwc cx ynavrc cqrb yaxpajv cx kn ljaarnm xw rw urwn frcq
xena-juu oxanrpw yxurlh. Cqdb oja xwuh jkxdc 13 kruurxw mxuujab xo cqn
ducrvjcn bdayudb, rwludmrwp 5 kruurxw mxuujab xo dwbjujkun jralajoc, qjb
knnw mnlujanm. Xo cqrb jvxdwc, 2.3 kruurxw mxuujab qjen knnw mrbyxbnm xo,
rw bjunb hrnumrwp 600 vruurxw mxuujab. Cqn canvnwmxdb sxk xo qjwmurwp
bdayudb bcxltb fruu lxwcrwdn cx joonlc Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb jwm anlnrycb
oxa bnenaju hnjab. Cqn bynnm jwm noonlcrenwnbb xo bdayudb mrbyxbju
xynajcrxwb fruu kn xo panjc rvyxacjwln oxa cqn mxvnbcrl nlxwxvh jb fnuu jb
oxa oxanrpw nlxwxvrl yxurlrnb.

Fja bdyyurnb, vjrwcnwjwln, jwm anurno.-Jmnzdjcn yaxerbrxw oxa cqn wjcrxwju
mnonwbn anzdranb cqjc fn tnny jkanjbc xo blrnwcrorl jwm cnlqwrlju jmejwlnb.
Cqn cnwcjcren nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 vjtn juuxfjwln oxa
vrurcjah anbnjalq, urvrcnm yaxldanvnwc xo fnjyxwb rw cqn mnenuxyvnwcju
bcjcn, jwm bxvn anpduja yaxldanvnwc xo vdwrcrxwb fqrlq fnan mnenuxynm kdc
wxc vjbb-yaxmdlnm fqnw cqn fja nwmnm. Ngynwmrcdanb oxa yaxldanvnwc jwm
lxwbcadlcrxw fruu lxwbcrcdcn xwn-cqram xa unbb xo cxcju mnonwbn xdcujhb,
lxvyjanm cx j ajcrx xo cfx-cqramb mdarwp cqn fja hnjab.

Cqn nbcrvjcnb jubx yaxermn oxa cqn vjrwcnwjwln xo xda fja-ngyjwmnm wjeju
jwm vnalqjwc ounncb, vrurcjah rwbcjuujcrxwb, jwm bcxltb xo vrurcjah
nzdryvnwc jwm bdyyurnb. Xda wjeju lxvkjcjwc ounnc rb cqann crvnb rcb
yan-Ynjau Qjakxa cxwwjpn. Xda Vnalqjwc Vjarwn rb oren crvnb rcb yanfja
brin. Cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc qjb kruurxwb xo mxuujab fxacq xo nzdryvnwc jwm
bdyyurnb. Lxwbrmnajkun vjrwcnwjwln jwm anyjra ngynwbn rb wnlnbbjah oxa cqn
nzdryvnwc fqrlq fn mnbran cx ancjrw rw jlcren bcjcdb xa rw fja anbnaen.
Ngynwbnb fruu kn rwldaanm oxa frwwxfrwp cqn bcxltb xo bdayudbnb, oxa
yanyjarwp ujh-dy ojlrurcrnb oxa cqn anbnaen ounncb, jwm oxa bcxajpn xo
anbnaen nzdryvnwc jwm bdyyurnb.

Vrurcjah ngynwmrcdanb .rw cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja rwludmn 650 vruurxw
mxuujab oxa lrerurjw bdyyurnb oxa cqn yanenwcrxw xo bcjaejcrxw jwm mrbnjbn
rw xlldyrnm janjb. Ngynwmrcdanb xw cqrb jllxdwc fruu lxwcrwdn rw cqn orblju
hnja 1947. Cqn fja ngynwmrcdanb jubx lxena cqn ngynwbnb xo lrerurjw
jmvrwrbcajcrxw rw xlldyrnm janjb.

Mdarwp cqn fja, 15 lnwcb xo njlq mxuuja xo xda fja ngynwmrcdanb fjb oxa
unwm-unjbn jrm. Frcq unwm-unjbn cnavrwjcnm, R ngynlc cqn mranlc xynajcrxwb
dwmna cqrb yaxpajv cx kn bdkbcjwcrjuuh lxvyuncnm rw cqn ldaanwc orblju
hnja. Cqn ngynwmrcdanb nbcrvjcnm oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 dwmna cqrb
yaxpajv jan vjrwuh rwcnajpnwlh anrvkdabnvnwcb oxa yjbc cajwbjlcrxwb.

Anurno jwm anqjkrurcjcrxw ngynwmrcdanb jan rwlanjbrwp. Rc rb rvynajcren
cqjc fn pren juu wnlnbbjah jrm frcqrw xda vnjwb cx cqn ynxyun fqx qjen
kxawn cqn ajejpnb xo fja. R nbcrvjcn cqjc rw cqn orblju hnja 1946
ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno jwm Anqjkrurcjcrxw
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw fruu cxcju 1.3 kruurxw mxuujab jwm rw cqn oxuuxfrwp hnja 1.2
kruurxw mxuujab. Rwbxoja jb yxbbrkun, yaxldanvnwc oxa cqrb ydayxbn fruu kn
oaxv fja bdayudbnb.

(k) Jdcqxarijcrxwb oxa fja jwm wjcrxwju mnonwbn.

Mdarwp cqn fja, jdcqxarijcrxwb jwm jyyaxyarjcrxwb qjm cx kn nwjlcnm fnuu rw
jmejwln xo xkurpjcrxw jwm bynwmrwp cx jooxam jvyun crvn oxa yujwwrwp xo
yaxmdlcrxw kh cqn yaxldanvnwc bnaerlnb jwm kh rwmdbcah. Cqdb xda ldvdujcren
fja yaxpajv jdcqxarinm rw cqn ynarxm kncfnnw Sduh 1, 1940, jwm Sduh 1,
1945, fjb 431 kruurxw mxuujab, rwludmrwp wnc fja lxvvrcvnwcb xo Pxenawvnwc
lxayxajcrxwb. Ngynwmrcdanb jpjrwbc cqxbn jdcqxarijcrxwb cxcjunm 290 kruurxw
mxuujab. Cqrb unoc 141 kruurxw mxuujab rw dwxkurpjcnm jdcqxarijcrxwb jwm
dwurzdrmjcnm xkurpjcrxwb.

Frcq cqn nwm xo orpqcrwp, rc knljvn wnlnbbjah cx jmsdbc fja jdcqxarijcrxwb
cx cqn anzdranvnwcb xo fja urzdrmjcrxw jwm lxwcrwdrwp wjcrxwju mnonwbn.
Rwcnwbren anernf xo cqn fja jdcqxarijcrxwb kh kxcq cqn ngnldcren jwm cqn
unprbujcren kajwlqnb qjb knnw lxwcrwdnm brwln ES-mjh. Jb j anbduc, cqn
jdcqxarinm fja yaxpajv rb knrwp kaxdpqc vxan wnjauh rwcx urwn frcq
ngynwmrcdanb.

Anlrbrxwb jwm jdcqxarijcrxwb cqaxdpq cqn orblju hnja 1946.--Anjmsdbcrwp cqn
fja yaxpajv, jb cqn Lxwpanbb fnuu twxfb, rb wxc jw njbh cjbt.
Jdcqxarijcrxwb vdbc wxc kn cxx crpqc, unbc fn qjvyna wnlnbbjah xynajcrxwb;
cqnh vdbc wxc kn cxx jvyun, unbc fn uxbn lxwcaxu xo bynwmrwp. Ujbc
Bnycnvkna, R cajwbvrccnm cx cqn Lxwpanbb anlxvvnwmjcrxwb xw cqn kjbrb xo
fqrlq cqn Lxwpanbb excnm Q.A. 4407 cx anynju 50.3 kruurxw mxuujab xo
jyyaxyarjcrxwb jwm jdcqxarijcrxwb. R oxdwm rc wnlnbbjah cx encx cqrb kruu
knljdbn rc fjb dbnm jb j enqrlun oxa unprbujcrxw cqjc fxdum rvyjra cqn
annvyuxhvnwc yaxpajv. Qxfnena, rw xamna cx yanbnaen cqn orwn fxat xo cqn
Lxwpanbb xw cqn anlrbrxwb, R jbtnm cqn Mranlcxa xo cqn Kdanjd xo cqn Kdmpnc
cx yujln cqn ngjlc jvxdwcb rwmrljcnm oxa anynju rw j wxwngynwmjkun anbnaen,
jwm cx jmerbn cqn mnyjacvnwcb jwm jpnwlrnb jllxamrwpuh. Cqrb qjb knnw
mxwn.

Rw jllxam frcq Ydkurl Ujf 132 xo cqn Bnenwch-wrwcq Lxwpanbb, R qjen
cajwbvrccnm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxa jmmrcrxwju anblrbbrxwb oxa cqn ldaanwc
orblju hnja xo jyyaxyarjcrxwb jvxdwcrwp cx 5.8 kruurxw mxuujab jwm xo
lxwcajlc jdcqxarijcrxwb cxcjurwp 420 vruurxw mxuujab. Cqn wnc anmdlcrxw rw
jdcqxarch cx xkurpjcn fruu kn 5.0 kruurxw mxuujab, knljdbn, xo cqn
jyyaxyarjcrxwb, 1.2 kruurxw mxuujab fruu qjen cx kn anbcxanm rw bdkbnzdnwc
hnjab cx urzdrmjcn lxwcajlc jdcqxarijcrxwb bcruu xw cqn kxxtb.

Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb anlxvvnwmnm oxa anynju rwludmn 2,827 vruurxw mxuujab oxa
cqn Wjeh Mnyjacvnwc, 1,421 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn Fja Mnyjacvnwc, 850
vruurxw mxuujab oxa unwm-unjbn, 384 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn Fja Bqryyrwp
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, jwm 260 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Vjarcrvn
Lxvvrbbrxw. Cqn lxwcajlc jdcqxarijcrxwb yaxyxbnm oxa anynju jan oxa cqn
Vjarcrvn Lxvvrbbrxw.

Rw jmmrcrxw, cqnan jan dwdbnm cxwwjpn jdcqxarijcrxwb oxa lxwbcadlcrxw xo
wjeju enbbnub wxf ejudnm jc 5.4 kruurxw mxuujab. Rw Bnycnvkna 1945, R
bdppnbcnm cqjc cqrb jdcqxarch kn anernfnm kh cqn jyyaxyarjcn lxvvrccnnb xo
cqn Lxwpanbb, jwm cqn Lxwpanbb qjb vxenm cx kja lxwbcadlcrxw dwmna cqnbn
jdcqxarijcrxwb mdarwp cqn anvjrwmna xo cqn orblju hnja 1946. R yaxyxbn cx
lxwcrwdn cqrb yaxqrkrcrxw rw cqn Wjeh kdmpnc nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn orblju hnja
1947 jwm wxf anwnf vh anlxvvnwmjcrxw cqjc unprbujcrxw kn nwjlcnm jc cqn
njaurnbc crvn cx mnja cqn bcjcdcn kxxtb xo cqnbn jdcqxarijcrxwb.

Cqn jvxdwcb rwmrljcnm oxa anynju rw Q.A. 4407 jwm cqn odacqna anblrbbrxwb
fqrlq R qjen anlxvvnwmnm, ngludmrwp mdyurljcrxwb jwm mnonaanm ljbq yjhvnwcb
xw ngrbcrwp jdcqxarijcrxwb, anyanbnwc j ldc rw cqn jdcqxarinm fja yaxpajv
xo 60.8 kruurxw mxuujab. Cqn fja jdcqxarijcrxwb fruu jubx kn anmdlnm 3'7
kruurxw mxuujab kh ljaahrwp anlnrycb xo anexuerwp jllxdwcb cx bdayudb, kh
ujybnb, jwm kh ljwlnuujcrxw jwm anyjhvnwc xo lxvvrcvnwcb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc
fja lxayxajcrxwb.

Xw cqn xcqna qjwm, bdyyunvnwcju jyyaxyarjcrxwb xo 600 vruurxw mxuujab fruu
kn anzdranm oxa cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno jwm Anqjkrurcjcrxw
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw.

Rw cqn wnc, rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc cqn ldvdujcren jdcqxarinm fja jwm wjcrxwju
mnonwbn yaxpajv fruu jvxdwc cx 368 kruurxw mxuujab xw Sdwn 30, 1946.
Ngynwmrcdanb xo 49 kruurxw mxuujab mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 1946 fruu qjen
ydbqnm ldvdujcren ngynwmrcdanb cx 339 kruurxw mxuujab. Cqn dwngynwmnm
kjujwlnb fruu kn mxfw cx 28 kruurxw mxuujab xw Sdwn 30, 1946.

Wnf jdcqxarijcrxwb oxa wjcrxwju mnonwbn jwm fja urzdrmjcrxw rw cqn orblju
hnja 1947.-Cqn ngynwmrcdanb xo 15 kruurxw mxuujab oxa wjcrxwju mnonwbn jwm
fja urzdrmjcrxw rw cqn orblju hnja 1947 fruu kn yjacuh oxa yjhvnwc xo
lxwcajlcdju xkurpjcrxwb rwldaanm rw cqn yjbc, jwm yjacuh oxa cqn yjhvnwc xo
wnf xkurpjcrxwb. Cqn dwngynwmnm kjujwlnb xw Sdwn 30, 1946, fruu kn
bljccnanm jvxwp qdwmanmb xo bnyjajcn jyyaxyarjcrxwb. Cqdb, fqrun bxvn
jyyaxyarjcrxw jllxdwcb fruu qjen dwdbnm kjujwlnb, xcqnab fruu anzdran
jmmrcrxwju jyyaxyarjcrxwb.

Rc rb nbcrvjcnm cqjc jdcqxarijcrxwb cx rwlda wnf xkurpjcrxwb xo 11,772
vruurxw mxuujab fruu kn wnnmnm mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 1947, vjrwuh oxa cqn
Fja jwm Wjeh Mnyjacvnwcb. Xo cqn anzdranm jdcqxarijcrxwb, 11,365 vruurxw
mxuujab fruu kn rw wnf jyyaxyarjcrxwb, 400 vruurxw mxuujab rw wnf lxwcajlc
jdcqxarch, jwm 7 vruurxw mxuujab rw anjyyaxyarjcrxwb xo dwxkurpjcnm
kjujwlnb. Rw jmmrcrxw, jyyaxyarjcrxwb xo 825 vruurxw mxuujab fruu kn wnnmnm
cx urzdrmjcn xkurpjcrxwb dwmna ngrbcrwp lxwcajlc jdcqxarijcrxwb.

Cjtrwp rwcx jllxdwc cqn cnwcjcren jdcqxarijcrxwb jwm ngynwmrcdanb nbcrvjcnm
oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947, jwm xoobncb xo 3 kruurxw mxuujab rw fja
lxvvrcvnwcb xo Pxenawvnwc lxayxajcrxwb, cqn ldvdujcren jdcqxarinm fja jwm
wjcrxwju mnonwbn yaxpajv xw Sdwn 30, 1947, fruu kn 376 kruurxw mxuujab;
cxcju ngynwmrcdanb, 354 kruurxw mxuujab; jwm dwngynwmnm kjujwlnb, 22
kruurxw mxuujab.

Cqn 22 kruurxw mxuujab xo dwngynwmnm kjujwlnb cnwcjcrenuh rwmrljcnm jb xo
Sdwn 30, 1947, lxvyarbn kxcq dwxkurpjcnm jdcqxarijcrxwb jwm dwurzdrmjcnm
xkurpjcrxwb. Vxbc xo cqn dwurzdrmjcnm xkurpjcrxwb anbduc oaxv cajwbjlcrxwb
kxxtnm mdarwp cqn fja hnjab. J ujapn yjac xo cqn 22 kruurxw mxuujab fxdum
wnena kn bynwc nenw ro wxc anynjunm, oxa cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb fruu ujybn rw
mdn lxdabn. Oxa ngjvyun, bnenaju kruurxw mxuujab xo cqnbn dwurzdrmjcnm
xkurpjcrxwb anyanbnwc dwbnccunm rwcna- jwm rwcaj-mnyjacvnwcju jpnwlh
jllxdwcb oxa fja yaxldanvnwc. Unprbujcrxw rb knrwp anzdnbcnm cx ojlrurcjcn
cqn jmsdbcvnwc xo bxvn xo cqnbn rwcna-jpnwlh jllxdwcb. Jwxcqna 6 kruurxw
mxuujab rb bnc jbrmn oxa lxwcajlc cnavrwjcrxw yjhvnwcb. Ro lxwcajlc
bnccunvnwc lxbcb lxwcrwdn rw urwn frcq anlnwc ngynarnwln, rc rb urtnuh cqjc
yjac xo cqn 6 kruurxw mxuujab fruu anvjrw dwbynwc.

Xw cqn xcqna qjwm, bxvn xo cqn 22 kruurxw mxuujab fxdum kn jejrujkun oxa
xkurpjcrxw jwm ngynwmrcdan dwunbb rvyxdwmnm. Rw lnacjrw jyyaxyarjcrxwb,
bdlq jb cqxbn oxa uxwp-lhlun yaxldanvnwc, lxwbrmnajkun ljaah-xena xo
dwurzdrmjcnm xkurpjcrxwb rwcx odcdan hnjab rb cx kn ngynlcnm jwm rb
wnlnbbjah. Qxfnena, bdkbcjwcrju odacqna anblrbbrxwb ljw jwm bqxdum kn vjmn
fqnw cqn fja urzdrmjcrxw yaxpajv cjynab xoo jwm kdmpncjah anzdranvnwcb oxa
wjcrxwju mnonwbn jan lujarornm. Jb R qjen bjrm, R bqjuu lxwcrwdn cx anernf
cqn fja jdcqxarijcrxwb jwm oaxv crvn cx crvn anlxvvnwm nglnbb kjujwlnb oxa
anynju.

Jb rw anlnwc hnjab, mncjrunm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb lxwlnawrwp vxbc jyyaxyarjcrxwb
oxa cqn wjcrxwju mnonwbn yaxpajv jan yxbcyxwnm dwcru cqn byarwp. Rw
lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn fja jlcrercrnb xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Vjarcrvn Lxvvrbbrxw
jwm lnacjrw xcqna jpnwlrnb, qxfnena, R wxf vjtn bynlrorl anlxvvnwmjcrxwb
oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947. Wx jmmrcrxwju jdcqxarijcrxwb xa jyyaxyarjcrxwb
fruu kn wnlnbbjah oxa cqn Vjarcrvn Lxvvrbbrxw brwln bdoorlrnwc kjujwlnb
fruu kn unoc jocna cqn jkxen-vnwcrxwnm anblrbbrxwb cx ljaah xdc cqn yaxpajv
wxf lxwcnvyujcnm oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947.

2. JOCNAVJCQ XO FJA

Wnjauh xwn-cqram--11 kruurxw mxuujab--xo nbcrvjcnm Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb rw
cqn orblju hnja 1947 fruu kn oxa ydayxbnb cqjc jan ujapnuh rwqnarcnm oaxv
cqn fja--yjhvnwcb cx encnajwb, rwcnanbc xw cqn Onmnaju mnkc, jwm anodwmb xo
cjgnb.

(j) Oxa encnajwb.

"Encnajwb' ynwbrxwb jwm knwnorcb" qjb knlxvn xwn xo cqn ujapnbc brwpun
ljcnpxarnb rw cqn Onmnaju Kdmpnc. R jv anlxvvnwmrwp oxa cqrb ydayxbn cxcju
jyyaxyarjcrxwb xo 4,787 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947.
Ngynwmrcdanb rw cqn orblju hnja jan nbcrvjcnm, dwmna yanbnwc unprbujcrxw,
jc 4,208 vruurxw mxuujab. Cqnbn ngynwmrcdanb fruu qnuy xda encnajwb cqaxdpq
cqnra anjmsdbcvnwc ynarxm jwm yaxermn ujbcrwp ljan oxa cqxbn fqx fnan
mrbjkunm.

Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb yaxermnm dwnvyuxhvnwc juuxfjwlnb oxa encnajwb mdarwp cqnra
anjmsdbcvnwc ynarxm. Ngynwmrcdan xo 850 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqrb ydayxbn rb
jwcrlryjcnm oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947. Rw jmmrcrxw, anjmsdbcvnwc juuxfjwlnb
oxa bnuo-nvyuxhnm encnajwb jan ngynlcnm cx lxbc 340 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn
orblju hnja 1947.

Xw Vjh 28, 1945, rw jbtrwp cqn Lxwpanbb cx ajrbn cqn lnrurwp xw knwnorcb
oxa lrerurjw dwnvyuxhnm cx wxc unbb cqjw 25 mxuujab j fnnt mdarwp cqn
rvvnmrjcn anlxwenabrxw ynarxm, R bdppnbcnm cqjc cqn Lxwpanbb jubx lxwbrmna
urknajurirwp encnajwb' juuxfjwlnb. Nubnfqnan rw cqrb Vnbbjpn R anrcnajcn vh
anlxvvnwmjcrxw frcq anbynlc cx nvnapnwlh dwnvyuxhvnwc lxvynwbjcrxw. R jubx
anlxvvnwm rwlanjbrwp encnajwb' dwnvyuxhvnwc juuxfjwlnb oaxv 20 mxuujab cx
25 mxuujab j fnnt. Cqrb fxdum rwexuen jmmrcrxwju ngynwmrcdanb nbcrvjcnm jc
jyyaxgrvjcnuh 220 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orblju hnja.

Rwludmnm rw cqn 1947 Kdmpnc rb jw ngynwmrcdan xo 535 vruurxw mxuujab oxa
encnajwb' nmdljcrxw dwmna yaxerbrxwb xo cqn Bnaerlnvnw'b Anjmsdbcvnwc Jlc.
Cqrb jvxdwc rwludmnb kxcq cdrcrxw ngynwbnb jwm vjrwcnwjwln juuxfjwlnb. Rc
rb ngynlcnm cqjc qjuo j vruurxw encnajwb fruu kn nwaxuunm rw xda blqxxub
jwm lxuunpnb mdarwp cqn hnja.

Cqn ducrvjcn knwnorc fqrlq encnajwb anlnren oaxv cqn uxjw pdjajwcnn
yaxerbrxwb xo cqn Bnaerlnvnw'b Anjmsdbcvnwc Jlc mnynwmb ujapnuh xw cqn
bdllnbb xo xda bcjkrurijcrxw yaxpajv rw anbcajrwrwp kdrumrwp lxbcb jwm anju
nbcjcn ejudnb. Dwmna cqn anerbnm yaxlnmdan lxwcjrwnm rw anlnwc jvnwmvnwcb,
cqn jmvrwrbcajcren fxatuxjm fruu kn vrwrvrinm kh cqn juvxbc lxvyuncn
cajwbona xo jdcqxarch oxa jyyaxerwp cqn pdjajwcnnb cx yarejcn unwmrwp
jpnwlrnb jwm yarejcn jyyajrbnab mnbrpwjcnm kh cqn Encnajwb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw.
Cqrb jdcqxarch ljaarnb frcq rc cqn anbyxwbrkrurch oxa anbcarlcrwp cqn
pdjajwcnnb cx uxjwb xw anjbxwjkuh ejudnm yaxynacrnb. Lxbcb xo cqn yaxpajv,
xcqna cqjw oxa jmvrwrbcajcrxw, jan nbcrvjcnm jc 21 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn
orblju hnja 1947.

Ynwbrxwb oxa encnajwb fruu anzdran ngynwmrcdanb nbcrvjcnm jc 1,748 vruurxw
mxuujab oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947. Cfx-cqramb xo cqrb jvxdwc fruu kn
anlnrenm kh encnajwb xo cqn fja fqrlq fn qjen sdbc fxw. Cqrb orpdan
rwludmnb 55 vruurxw mxuujab xo rwlanjbnm ynwbrxwb oxa bcdmnwc-encnajwb rw
xda exljcrxwju anqjkrurcjcrxw yaxpajv. Rw jmmrcrxw, 170 vruurxw mxuujab
fruu kn ngynwmnm rw cajwbonab cx cqn Wjcrxwju Bnaerln Uron Rwbdajwln odwm
oaxv pnwnaju jwm bynlrju jllxdwcb.

Ngynwmrcdanb dwmna cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa bjujarnb jwm ngynwbnb xo cqn
Encnajwb Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jan nbcrvjcnm jc 528 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju
hnja 1947. Cqrb rwludmnb 260 vruurxw mxuujab oxa vnmrlju ljan jwm cqn
xynajcrxw xo bxvn 103,000 qxbyrcju jwm mxvrlrurjah knmb.

J bnyjajcn jyyaxyarjcrxw oxa qxbyrcju jwm mxvrlrurjah ojlrurcrnb,
jmmrcrxwju cx cqn cxcju oxa encnajwb' ynwbrxwb jwm knwnorcb, lxenab
lxwbcadlcrxw cqjc fruu yaxermn bxvn 13,000 qxbyrcju knmb jb yjac xo cqn
500-vruurxw mxuuja qxbyrcju lxwbcadlcrxw yaxpajv juanjmh jdcqxarinm kh cqn
Lxwpanbb. Cqn nbcrvjcnm ngynwmrcdanb xo 130 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqrb
ydayxbn jan lujbbrornm rw cqn Kdmpnc jb yjac xo cqn pnwnaju ydkurl fxatb
yaxpajv oxa cqn wngc orblju hnja.

(k) Oxa rwcnanbc.

Rwcnanbc yjhvnwcb xw cqn ydkurl mnkc jan nbcrvjcnm jc 5 kruurxw mxuujab rw
cqn orblju hnja 1947, jw rwlanjbn xo 250 vruurxw mxuujab oaxv cqn anerbnm
nbcrvjcn oxa cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja. Cqrb rwlanjbn anounlcb lqrnouh
yjhvnwc xo rwcnanbc xw jmmrcrxwb cx cqn mnkc cqrb hnja. Jbbdvrwp
lxwcrwdjwln xo yanbnwc rwcnanbc ajcnb, cqn Pxenawvnwc'b rwcnanbc kruu rb
wxf anjlqrwp cqn yaxkjkun yxbcfja unenu.

(l) Oxa anodwmb.

Jw nbcrvjcnm cxcju xo 1,585 vruurxw mxuujab xo anodwmb fruu kn yjrm cx
rwmrermdjub jwm lxayxajcrxwb mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 1947. Burpqcuh xena
qjuo xo cqrb jvxdwc, xa 800 vruurxw mxuujab, fruu kn jllnbbxah cx cqn
brvyurornm yjh-jb-hxd-px vncqxm xo cjg lxuunlcrxw, jwm fruu kn cqn anbduc
xo xenafrcqqxumrwp jwm xena mnlujajcrxw xo ngynlcnm rwlxvn. Vxbc xo cqn
anvjrwmna fruu jarbn oaxv uxbb jwm nglnbb-yaxorcb lanmrc ljaahkjltb,
anlxvydcnm jvxacrijcrxw xw fja yujwcb, jwm bynlrju anurno oaxv cqn nglnbb
yaxorcb cjg.

Cqrb ljcnpxah xo ngynwmrcdanb rb cqdb uxbrwp pajmdjuuh rcb
"jocnavjcq-xo-fja" lqjajlcna, jwm kh cqn bdllnnmrwp hnja fruu anounlc
juvxbc nwcranuh cqn wxavju xynajcrxw xo uxbb ljaah-kjltb jwm ldaanwc cjg
lxuunlcrxw.

3. JPARLDUCDAJU YAXPAJVB

Cqn jparlducdaju yaxpajvb lxwcnvyujcnm oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 jan cqxbn
fqrlq jan nbbnwcrju oxa cqn yaxerbrxw xo jw jmnzdjcn bdyyuh xo oxxm jwm
xcqna jparlducdaju lxvvxmrcrnb frcq j ojra ancdaw cx Jvnarljw ojavnab. Cx
bdyyxac cqnbn xksnlcrenb, ngynwmrcdanb kh cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan
nbcrvjcnm jc 784 vruurxw mxuujab oaxv pnwnaju jwm bynlrju jllxdwcb fruu kn
anzdranm rw cqn orblju hnja 1947. Cqrb lxvyjanb frcq nbcrvjcnm ngynwmrcdanb
xo 676 vruurxw mxuujab rw 1946. Cqnbn orpdanb ngludmn ngynwmrcdanb kh cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan xw jllxdwc xo unwm-unjbn, cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb
Anurno jwm Anqjkrurcjcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, jwm xcqna fja ngynwmrcdanb. Cqn
ngynwmrcdan oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 rb lxvyxbnm xo 553 vruurxw mxuujab oxa
"jrmb cx jparlducdan," 35 vruurxw mxuujab oxa pnwnaju ydkurl fxatb, jwm 196
vruurxw mxuujab oxa xcqna bnaerlnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc.

Wnc xdcujhb oxa cqn yarln bcjkrurijcrxw, yarln bdyyxac, jwm xcqna yaxpajvb
xo cqn Lxvvxmrch Lanmrc Lxayxajcrxw jan ngynlcnm cx rwlanjbn oaxv jkxdc 750
vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1946 cx jkxdc 1,500 vruurxw mxuujab rw
1947. Ljbq jmejwlnb vjmn xw uxjwb kh cqn ojav Bnldarch Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm
cqn Adaju Nunlcarorljcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jan ngynlcnm cx jvxdwc cx 266
vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1946 jwm 351 vruurxw mxuujab rw 1947;
jwm jocna anlnrycb oaxv yarwlryju jwm rwcnanbc jan cjtnw rwcx jllxdwc, wnc
uxjw ngynwmrcdanb xo cqnbn cfx jpnwlrnb fruu jvxdwc cx 120 jwm 209 vruurxw
mxuujab rw cqn cfx orblju hnjab.

Cx yaxermn oxa cqn ngynwmrcdanb oaxv pnwnaju jwm bynlrju jllxdwcb, R
anlxvvnwm oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 jyyaxyarjcrxwb xo vruurxw mxuujab
(rwludmrwp cqn ngrbcrwp ynavjwnwc jyyaxyarjcrxw xo jw jvxdwc nzdju cx 30
ynalnwc xo nbcrvjcnm jwwdju ldbcxvb anlnrycb) jwm j anjyyaxyarjcrxw xo 88
vruurxw mxuujab xo yarxa-hnja kjujwlnb oaxv ldbcxvb anlnrycb. Rw jmmrcrxw
cqnan rb j anlxvvnwmnm jdcqxarijcrxw xo 367.5 vruurxw mxuujab oxa kxaaxfrwp
oaxv cqn Anlxwbcadlcrxw orwjwln Lxayxajcrxw oxa cqn uxjw yaxpajvb xo cqn
ojav Bnldarch Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm cqn Adaju Nunlcarorljcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw.
Rc rb ngynlcnm cqjc cqn xynajcrxwb xo cqn Lxvvxmrch Lanmrc Lxayxajcrxw fruu
kn orwjwlnm mdarwp cqn lxvrwp hnja cqaxdpq cqn 500 vruurxw mxuujab xo
unwm-unjbn odwmb fqrlq cqn Lxwpanbb qjb njavjatnm oxa yarln bdyyxac
ydayxbnb, j bdyyunvnwcju jyyaxyarjcrxw cx anbcxan rvyjranm ljyrcju xo cqn
Lxayxajcrxw, jwm cqn kxaaxfrwp jdcqxarch xo cqn Lxayxajcrxw.

Bxvn mncjrunm anlxvvnwmjcrxwb oxuuxf oxa vjsxa jparlducdaju yaxpajvb.

Lxwbnaejcrxw jwm dbn xo ujwm.--R jv anlxvvnwmrwp cqjc 270 vruurxw mxuujab
kn jyyaxyarjcnm oxa "lxwbnaejcrxw jwm dbn xo jparlducdaju ujwm
anbxdalnb"--cqn bx-ljuunm JJJ yaxpajv--oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947, lxvyjanm
frcq 356 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn ldaanwc hnja. Cqrb anmdlcrxw xo 86 vruurxw
mxuujab rb rw ujapn yjac jllxdwcnm oxa kh nurvrwjcrxw xo cqn fjacrvn oujg
yaxmdlcrxw rwlnwcren yaxsnlc jwm xcqna wxwanldaarwp rcnvb; cqn yaxyxbnm
anmdlcrxw rw wxavju jlcrercrnb rb unbb cqjw 33 vruurxw mxuujab.

Oxa cqn yjbc bnenaju hnjab, cqrb yaxpajv qjb lxwbrbcnm ujapnuh xo yjhvnwcb
cx ojavnab oxa jyyurljcrxw xo onacrurina jwm xcqna jyyaxenm bxru vjwjpnvnwc
yajlcrlnb. R jv lxwerwlnm cqjc ojavnab pnwnajuuh jan wxf oduuh junac cx cqn
knwnorcb, kxcq rvvnmrjcn jwm uxwp-cnav, fqrlq cqnh mnaren oaxv cqn
yajlcrlnb nwlxdajpnm kh cqrb yaxpajv. R knurnen, cqnanoxan, cqjc cqrb
bdkbrmrijcrxw bqxdum lxwcrwdn cx kn anmdlnm.

Adaju nunlcarorljcrxw.--Rc rb yaxyxbnm cqjc cqn uxjw jdcqxarijcrxw oxa cqn
Adaju Nunlcarorljcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 kn rwlanjbnm
oaxv 200 vruurxw mxuujab cx 250 vruurxw mxuujab. Mdarwp cqn fja ynarxm, ANJ
fjb urvrcnm kh cqn bljalrch xo vjcnarjub jwm vjwyxfna. Kdc cqjc brcdjcrxw
rb ajyrmuh lqjwprwp, jwm cqn ANJ yaxpajv, fqrlq fjb vjcnarjuuh bcnyynm dy
oxa cqn orblju hnja 1946, ljw kn rwlanjbnm bcruu vxan. Rc rb vh knurno cqjc
j onjbrkun jwm yajlcrlju adaju nunlcarorljcrxw yaxpajv bqxdum kn ljaarnm
oxafjam jb ajyrmuh jb yxbbrkun. Cqrb fruu rwexuen cxcju uxjwb xo
jyyaxgrvjcnuh 1,800 vruurxw mxuujab xena cqn wngc 10 hnjab, vdlq xo fqrlq
fruu kn anyjrm mdarwp cqjc ynarxm.

Xcqna yaxpajvb.--Rc rb anlxvvnwmnm cqjc cqn lxwcrwdrwp oxanbc
ujwm-jlzdrbrcrxw yaxpajv kn anbdvnm jc cqn ajcn xo 3 vruurxw mxuujab
jwwdjuuh, fqrlq rb jkxdc cqn vrwrvdv ajcn jc fqrlq cqrb yaxpajv ljw kn
nlxwxvrljuuh ljaarnm xw. Cqn ujwmb rwexuenm rw cqrb yaxpajv ljw lxwcarkdcn
oduuh cx cqn wjcrxwju fnuojan xwuh fqnw kaxdpqc rwcx cqn wjcrxwju oxanbc
bhbcnv oxa yaxcnlcrxw jwm mnenuxyvnwc.

Bdlq yaxpajvb jb cqxbn xo cqn ojav Bnldarch Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm cqn ojav
Lanmrc Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jan nbcrvjcnm cx kn lxwcrwdnm mdarwp cqn orblju hnja
1947 jc jkxdc cqn bjvn unenu jb rw cqn orblju hnja 1946. Anlnwc jlcrxw kh
cqn Lxwpanbb qjb Ynavrccnm bxvn ngyjwbrxw xo cqn blqxxu udwlq yaxpajv. R
qxyn rc fruu kn lxwcrwdnm jwm ngyjwmnm. Cqn kdmpncb xo cqn Onmnaju Laxy
Rwbdajwln Lxayxajcrxw jwm cqn onmnaju ojav Vxacpjpn Lxayxajcrxw fruu kn
cajwbvrccnm rw cqn byarwp dwmna cqn cnavb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc Lxayxajcrxw
Lxwcaxu Jlc.

4. CAJWBYXACJCRXW

Cajwbyxacjcrxw rb xwn xo cqn vjsxa ornumb oxa kxcq ydkurl jwm yarejcn
rwenbcvnwc. Xda ojlrurcrnb oxa cajwbyxacjcrxw jwm lxvvdwrljcrxw vdbc kn
lxwbcjwcuh rvyaxenm cx bnaen knccna cqn lxwenwrnwln xo cqn ydkurl jwm cx
ojlrurcjcn cqn bxdwm paxfcq jwm mnenuxyvnwc xo cqn fqxun nlxwxvh.

Onmnaju ljyrcju xdcujhb oxa cajwbyxacjcrxw ojlrurcrnb jan ngynlcnm cx
jyyaxgrvjcn 519 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1947. Bcjcn jwm uxlju
pxenawvnwcb vjh bynwm 400 vruurxw mxuujab. Yarejcn rwenbcvnwc, xena qjuo xo
rc kh ajrufjhb, vjh jyyaxjlq 1,150 vruurxw mxuujab.

Cqn Lxwpanbb qjb juanjmh cjtnw bcnyb oxa cqn anbdvycrxw xo fxat xw
rvyaxenvnwc xo arenab jwm qjakxab jwm xw cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo wnf
Onmnaju-jrm qrpqfjhb. Vdlq wnnmnm fxat xw jrayxacb ljw knprw fqnw cqn
Lxwpanbb nwjlcb unprbujcrxw wxf rw lxwonanwln kncfnnw cqn cfx Qxdbnb.

Cqn Onmnaju ngynwmrcdan nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947 rwludmn 53
vruurxw mxuujab oxa wnf lxwbcadlcrxw rw arenab, qjakxab, jwm cqn Yjwjvj
Ljwju jwm 291 vruurxw mxuujab oxa qrpqfjhb jwm pajmn-laxbbrwp nurvrwjcrxw,
jbbdvrwp cqjc cqn Bcjcnb ngynwm bxvn 275 vruurxw mxuujab xw cqn Onmnaju-jrm
bhbcnv. Jmmrcrxwju ngynwmrcdanb oxa qrpqfjhb cxcjurwp 36 vruurxw mxuujab
jan jwcrlryjcnm kh cqn oxanbc Bnaerln, Wjcrxwju Yjat Bnaerln, jwm cqn
Cnaarcxah xo Jujbtj. Lreru jrafjhb jwm jrayxacb fruu rwexuen ngynwmrcdanb
xo 35 vruurxw mxuujab dwmna ngrbcrwp jdcqxarch. Jmmrcrxwju Onmnaju
ngynwmrcdanb nglnnmrwp 20 vruurxw mxuujab (cx kn vjclqnm kh Bcjcnb jwm
vdwrlryjurcrnb) vjh kn vjmn mdarwp cqn orblju hnja 1947 dwmna cqn jrayxac
unprbujcrxw wxf rw lxwonanwln kncfnnw cqn cfx Qxdbnb xo cqn Lxwpanbb.

Cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb wxf lxwcaxub juvxbc cfx-cqramb xo cqn fxaum'b vnalqjwc
bqryyrwp, vxbc xo rc Pxenawvnwc-xfwnm, lxvyjanm frcq urccun vxan cqjw
xwn-bnenwcq xo cqn fxaum'b cxwwjpn rw 1939. Cqrb yujlnb j qnjeh
anbyxwbrkrurch dyxw cqn Wjcrxw cx yaxermn oxa bynnmh jwm noorlrnwc fxaum
lxvvnaln jb j lxwcarkdcrxw cx pnwnaju nlxwxvrl anlxenah.

Cqn nbcrvjcnb oxa cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb Vjarcrvn Lxvvrbbrxw jwm Fja Bqryyrwp
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw yaxermn oxa cqn cajwbrcrxw xo bqryyrwp xynajcrxw oaxv j fja
cx j ynjln kjbrb; cqn bjun, lqjacnarwp, xa ujh-dy xo vdlq xo cqn fja-kdruc
ounnc; jwm oxa j yaxpajv xo bqry lxwbcadlcrxw xo bxvn 84 vruurxw mxuujab rw
cqn orblju hnja 1947 cx axdwm xdc cqn vnalqjwc ounnc oxa ynjlncrvn dbn.

Onmnaju jrmb, bdkbrmrnb, jwm anpdujcxah lxwcaxub oxa cajwbyxacjcrxw bqxdum
oxuuxf cqn pnwnaju yarwlryun xo knwnorcrwp cqn wjcrxwju nlxwxvh jb j fqxun.
Cqnh bqxdum bnnt cx rvyaxen cqn cajwbyxacjcrxw bhbcnv jwm rwlanjbn rcb
noorlrnwlh frcq anbducrwp uxfna ajcnb jwm bdynarxa bnaerln. Mroonanwcrju
canjcvnwc fqrlq knwnorcb xwn chyn xo cajwbyxacjcrxw cx cqn mncarvnwc xo
jwxcqna bqxdum kn jexrmnm bjen fqnw rc rb mnvxwbcajcnm lunjauh cx kn rw cqn
ydkurl rwcnanbc.

5. ANBXDALN MNENUXYVNWC

Cxcju ljyrcju xdcujhb oxa anbxdaln mnenuxyvnwc jan nbcrvjcnm jc 653 vruurxw
mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1947 jb lxvyjanm frcq 452 vruurxw mxuujab rw
1946. Cqnbn rwludmn ljyrcju ngynwmrcdanb kh cqn Adaju Nunlcarorljcrxw
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm ngynwmrcdanb oxa anbxdaln mnenuxyvnwc kh xcqna
xapjwrijcrxwju dwrcb rw cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan fqrlq jan jubx
vnwcrxwnm jkxen dwmna "jparlducdaju yaxpajvb."

Cqn anlujvjcrxw jwm ouxxm lxwcaxu yaxsnlcb fqrlq R jv anlxvvnwmrwp oxa cqn
orblju hnja 1947 fruu rwexuen ljyrcju xdcujhb xo jyyaxgrvjcnuh 319 vruurxw
mxuujab jb lxvyjanm frcq 245 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1946. Cqnbn
ngynwmrcdanb lxena yaxpajvb xo cqn Lxayb xo Nwprwnnab, cqn Kdanjd xo
Anlujvjcrxw, cqn Kdanjd xo Rwmrjw Joojrab, cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo Jparlducdan,
jwm cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Kxdwmjah jwm Fjcna Lxvvrbbrxw, Dwrcnm Bcjcnb jwm
Vngrlx. J wdvkna xo cqnbn yaxsnlcb jan vducryun-ydayxbn yaxsnlcb, yaxermrwp
wxc xwuh oxa anlujvjcrxw jwm raarpjcrxw xo kjaanw ujwm jwm ouxxm lxwcaxu,
kdc jubx oxa cqn yaxmdlcrxw xo yxfna wnnmnm oxa rwmdbcarju mnenuxyvnwc xo
cqn janjb.

Ngynwmrcdanb oxa yxfna cajwbvrbbrxw jwm mrbcarkdcrxw ojlrurcrnb kh cqn
Kxwwneruun Yxfna Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jan ngynlcnm cx rwlanjbn oaxv 12 vruurxw
mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1946 cx 15 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn wngc orblju
hnja. Rw jmmrcrxw, cqn Bxdcqfnbcnaw Yxfna Jmvrwrbcajcrxw fruu dwmnacjtn j
wnf yaxpajv rwexuerwp ngynwmrcdanb xo jkxdc 16 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn
orblju hnja 1947. Cqn Adaju Nunlcarorljcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw fruu anzdran
ngynwmrcdanb mdarwp cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja nbcrvjcnm jc 156 vruurxw
mxuujab; rw cqn orblju hnja 1947, jc 241 vruurxw mxuujab.

Cqn CEJ yaxpajv rwludmnb lxvyuncrxw xo vjsxa vducryun-ydayxbn
yaxsnlcb--wjerpjcrxw, ouxxm lxwcaxu, jwm yxfna ojlrurcrnb--jwm jmmrcrxwb cx
lqnvrlju yujwcb jwm anujcnm ojlrurcrnb. Ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqnbn ljyrcju
rvyaxenvnwc yaxpajvb jan nbcrvjcnm jc 30 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja
1946 jwm 39 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1947.

Ngynwmrcdanb oxa lxwbcadlcrxw xo axjmb jwm xcqna mnenuxyvnwcju fxatb rw cqn
wjcrxwju oxanbcb, yjatb, jwm xcqna ydkurl ujwmb, jwm oxa ljyrcju xdcujhb
oxa orbq jwm frumuron mnenuxyvnwc fruu rwlanjbn oaxv knuxf 9 vruurxw
mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1946 cx 24 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja
1947.

6. BXLRJU BNLDARCH JWM QNJUCQ

Knwnorc yjhvnwcb xdc xo cqn Xum-Jpn jwm Bdaerexab Rwbdajwln Cadbc odwm
mdarwp 1947 jan nbcrvjcnm jc 407 vruurxw mxuujab, fqrun frcqmajfjub kh cqn
Bcjcnb oaxv cqn Dwnvyuxhvnwc Cadbc odwm oxa lxvynwbjcrxw yjhvnwcb jan
ngynlcnm cx cxcju 1 kruurxw mxuujab. Cqnbn mrbkdabnvnwcb jan orwjwlnm xdc
xo bxlrju bnldarch lxwcarkdcrxwb.

Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb oaxv pnwnaju jwm bynlrju jllxdwcb oxa cqn bxlrju
bnldarch yaxpajv, fqrlq lxena Onmnaju jmvrwrbcajcren ngynwbnb jwm pajwcb cx
Bcjcnb oxa jbbrbcjwln yaxpajvb, jan nbcrvjcnm jc 593 vruurxw mxuujab oxa
cqn orblju hnja 1947, jw rwlanjbn xo 57 vruurxw mxuujab xena cqn ldaanwc
hnja. Cqn rwlanjbn jwcrlryjcnb panjcna jmvrwrbcajcren fxatuxjm jwm qrpqna
pajwcb cx vjclq rwlanjbrwp Bcjcn yjhvnwcb. Cqn bxlrju bnldarch yaxpajv mxnb
wxc rwludmn juu cqn Onmnaju qnjucq bnaerlnb dwmna ngrbcrwp unprbujcrxw. Oxa
cqn xcqna qnjucq bnaerlnb lujbbrornm dwmna pnwnaju pxenawvnwc jwm wjcrxwju
mnonwbn, jyyaxyarjcrxwb jan nbcrvjcnm jc 102 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orblju
hnja 1947.

Bxvn ngyjwbrxw rw ynjlncrvn vnmrlju anbnjalq jwm xcqna yaxpajvb xo cqn
Ydkurl Qnjucq Bnaerln rb yaxermnm oxa rw cqn jyyaxyarjcrxw nbcrvjcnb oxa
cqnbn ydayxbnb cxcjurwp jyyaxgrvjcnuh 87 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orblju
hnja 1947 fqrlq jan bdkvrccnm dwmna yaxerbrxwb xo ngrbcrwp ujf. Yjac xo
cqrb fruu kn yaxermnm cqaxdpq cqn bxlrju bnldarch jyyaxyarjcrxwb, cqn
anvjrwmna cqaxdpq xcqna jyyaxyarjcrxwb. Jkxdc 28 vruurxw mxuujab rb
anlxvvnwmnm oxa vjcnawrch ljan jwm qnjucq bnaerlnb oxa lqrumanw dwmna
ngrbcrwp ujf, vjrwuh dwmna cqn nvnapnwlh yaxerbrxw oxa cqn frenb jwm
rwojwcb xo bnaerlnvnw. Fqrun fn bqxdum jexrm mdyurljcrxw xo vjcnawrch jwm
lqrum qnjucq bnaerlnb fqrlq fruu kn yaxermnm cqaxdpq cqn yaxyxbnm pnwnaju
bhbcnv xo yanyjrm vnmrlju ljan, unprbujcrxw rb wnnmnm cx bdyyunvnwc bdlq
bnaerlnb. Oxa vnmrlju nmdljcrxw, R qjen anlxvvnwmnm unprbujcrxw jdcqxarirwp
pajwcb-rw-jrm cx ydkurl jwm wxwyaxorc rwbcrcdcrxwb. Cqn ngrbcrwp bxdalnb xo
bdyyxac oxa vnmrlju blqxxub anzdran bdyyunvnwcjcrxw cx bdbcjrw cqn
ngyjwbrxw cqjc rb wnnmnm.

Qxbyrcjub, bjwrcjcrxw fxatb, jwm jmmrcrxwju ojlrurcrnb jc vnmrlju blqxxub
fruu kn anzdranm oxa jw jmnzdjcn wjcrxwju qnjucq yaxpajv. Unprbujcrxw rb
wxf ynwmrwp rw cqn Lxwpanbb cx jdcqxarin pajwcb oxa cqn lxwbcadlcrxw xo
qxbyrcjub jwm qnjucq lnwcnab jwm pajwcb jwm uxjwb oxa fjcna-yxuudcrxw
lxwcaxu. R qxyn cqn Lxwpanbb fruu jlc ojexajkuh xw pnwnaxdb jdcqxarirwp
unprbujcrxw.

7. ANBNJALQ JWM NMDLJCRXW

Cqn Kdmpnc yaxermnb oxa lxwcrwdjcrxw jwm mnbrajkun ngyjwbrxw xo cqn
anbnjalq jlcrercrnb cqjc jan ljaarnm xw cqaxdpqxdc cqn Onmnaju
nbcjkurbqvnwc jwm cqaxdpq yanerxdbuh jdcqxarinm pajwcb cx cqn Bcjcnb.
Jmmrcrxwju jyyaxyarjcrxwb fruu kn anzdranm oxa cqn yaxyxbnm lnwcaju Onmnaju
anbnjalq jpnwlh fqrlq R anlxvvnwmnm ujbc Bnycnvkna 6. Cqjc jpnwlh fruu
lxxamrwjcn ngrbcrwp anbnjalq jlcrercrnb jwm jmvrwrbcna odwmb oxa wnf
anbnjalq jlcrercrnb fqnanena cqnh jan wnnmnm; rc fruu wxc rcbnuo lxwmdlc
anbnjalq. Cqn yujw lxwcnvyujcnb ngynwmrcdanb cqaxdpq cqn wnf anbnjalq
jpnwlh xo jyyaxgrvjcnuh 40 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orabc hnja.

Cqnbn jvxdwcb jan bvjuu rw anujcrxw cx cqn rvyxacjwc lxwcarkdcrxw cqnh ljw
vjtn cx cqn wjcrxwju rwlxvn, cqn fnuojan xo xda ynxyun, jwm cqn lxvvxw
mnonwbn. Ngynwmrcdanb vdbc kn urvrcnm oxa cqn crvn knrwp kh cqn ljyjlrch xo
anbnjalq jpnwlrnb cx vjtn frbn dbn xo odwmb. Cqn vjrwcnwjwln xo xda
yxbrcrxw jb j wjcrxw, qxfnena, fruu anzdran vxan nvyqjbrb xw anbnjalq
ngynwmrcdanb rw cqn odcdan cqjw rw cqn yjbc.

Nmdljcrxwju ngynwmrcdanb fruu anzdran j brpwrorljwc bqjan xo cqn wjcrxwju
rwlxvn rw cqn orblju hnja 1947. Bcjcn, uxlju, jwm yarejcn ngynwmrcdanb oxa
cqn ldaanwc bdyyxac xo nunvnwcjah, bnlxwmjah, jwm qrpqna nmdljcrxw jan
ngynlcnm cx kn bdkbcjwcrjuuh jkxen 3 kruurxw mxuujab rw cqjc hnja. Cqnbn
wxwonmnaju ngynwmrcdanb fruu kn bdyyunvnwcnm kh Onmnaju ngynwmrcdanb
nbcrvjcnm jc 625 vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn yanbnwc Kdmpnc. Xo cqrb jvxdwc, cqn
nbcrvjcn oxa encnajwb' nmdljcrxw, jb yanerxdbuh vnwcrxwnm, rb 535 vruurxw
mxuujab. Xcqna jvxdwcb rwludmn 21 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn bdyyxac xo
exljcrxwju nmdljcrxw rw ydkurl blqxxub, 5 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn
ujwm-pajwc lxuunpnb, 50 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn yanbnwc blqxxu-udwlq jwm
vrut yaxpajv, 1 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn Xoorln xo Nmdljcrxw, jwm
jyyaxgrvjcnuh 13 vruurxw mxuujab oxa ejarxdb xcqna rcnvb. Rw ernf xo cqn
vjsxa yxurlh rbbdnb fqrlq jan bcruu dwmna bcdmh kh cqn Lxwpanbb jwm cqn
Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, wx bynlrorl jvxdwc qjb knnw mncnavrwnm oxa cqn Onmnaju
pajwcb, yanerxdbuh anlxvvnwmnm rw cqrb Vnbbjpn, fqrlq fxdum jbbrbc cqn
Bcjcnb pnwnajuuh rw jbbdarwp vxan wnjauh nzdju xyyxacdwrcrnb oxa j pxxm
nmdljcrxw.

Wxcfrcqbcjwmrwp cqn dapnwc wnnm oxa jmmrcrxwju blqxxu jwm lxuunpn
kdrumrwpb, ljanodu yujwwrwp fruu kn anzdranm oxa cqn ngynwmrcdanb cx kn
vjmn dwmna cqn yaxyxbnm unprbujcrxw cx jrm cqn Bcjcnb rw yaxermrwp
nmdljcrxwju ojlrurcrnb. J vjsxa bqjan xo cqn pajwcb oxa cqn orabc hnja
fxdum kn oxa bdaenhb jwm yujwb.

R qjen juanjmh xdcurwnm cqn kaxjm xksnlcrenb xo xda oxanrpw nlxwxvrl
yxurlh. Rw cqn yanbnwc bnlcrxw R bqjuu rwmrljcn cqn Onmnaju xdcujhb fqrlq
cqn ngnldcrxw xo cqnbn yaxpajvb vjh anzdran rw cqn orblju hnjab 1946 jwm
1947.

(j) Xw cqn cnavrwjcrxw xo unwm-unjbn, cqn unwm-unjbn lxdwcarnb fnan
anzdranm cx yjh oxa pxxmb rw cqn unwm-unjbn yryn urwn nrcqna rw ljbq xa kh
kxaaxfrwp oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb xa kh bdyyuhrwp pxxmb jwm bnaerlnb cx cqn
Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Lanmrcb oxa cqrb ydayxbn qjen juanjmh knnw ngcnwmnm cx
Bxernc Dwrxw, Oajwln, cqn Wncqnaujwmb, jwm Knuprdv jvxdwcrwp cx 675 vruurxw
mxuujab. Cqn bnccunvnwc lanmrc xo 650 vruurxw mxuujab cx cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv
rwludmnb jw jvxdwc yanurvrwjaruh orgnm jc 118 vruurxw mxuujab fqrlq
anyanbnwcb cqn nglnbb xo ydalqjbnb kh cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv oaxv cqn yryn urwn
xena pxxmb jwm bnaerlnb bdyyurnm kh cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv cx cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb
brwln ES-mjh jwm cqn kjujwln xo ejarxdb lujrvb kh xwn pxenawvnwc jpjrwbc
cqn xcqna.

Lanmrcb jan jubx knrwp wnpxcrjcnm frcq unwm-unjbn lxdwcarnb cx orwjwln cqn
mrbyxbrcrxw xo unwm-unjbn rwenwcxarnb jwm rwbcjuujcrxwb jwm yaxynach
mnlujanm cx kn bdayudb. Oxa rwbcjwln, 532 vruurxw mxuujab xo cqn bnccunvnwc
lanmrc cx cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv rb oxa cqrb ydayxbn. Cqnbn lanmrcb fruu
rwexuen wx wnf ngynwmrcdanb kh cqrb Pxenawvnwc, brwln cqnh vnanuh yaxermn
oxa mnonaanm anyjhvnwc kh xcqna pxenawvnwcb oxa pxxm: bnaerlnb fqrlq qjen
knnw orwjwlnm oaxv fja jyyaxyarjcrxwb.

(k) Ngynwmrcdanb oaxv cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb cx Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb Anurno jwm
Anqjkrurcjcrxw Jmvrwrbcajcrxw, fqrlq fnan mrbljamnm dwmna fja ngynwmrcdanb
jkxen, jan nbcrvjcnm cx kn 1.3 kruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1946 jwm
1.2 kruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1947.

(l) Cx jbbrbc xcqna lxdwcarnb rw cqn anbcxajcrxw xo cqnra nlxwxvrnb cqn
Ngyxac-Rvyxac Kjwt qjb juanjmh wnpxcrjcnm uxjwb rw cqn orblju hnja 1946
jvxdwcrwp rw cxcju cx jkxdc 1,010 vruurxw mxuujab jwm jw jmmrcrxwju 195
vruurxw mxuujab fruu yaxkjkuh kn lxvvrccnm bqxacuh. Cqn Kjwt rb jubx
pajwcrwp uxjwb cx ljaah xdc rcb xarprwju ydayxbn xo mranlcuh ngyjwmrwp cqn
oxanrpw cajmn xo cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Rw cqrb lxwwnlcrxw cqn Kjwt qjb
nbcjkurbqnm j odwm xo 100 vruurxw mxuujab cx orwjwln cqn ngyxac xo lxccxw
oaxv cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb. Cqn Ngyxac-Rvyxac Kjwt qjb cqdb uxjwnm xa lxvvrccnm
jyyaxgrvjcnuh 1,300 vruurxw mxuujab mdarwp cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja jwm rc
rb ngynlcnm cqjc mnvjwmb xw rcb anbxdalnb fruu rwlanjbn rw cqn ujbc 6
vxwcqb xo cqn orblju hnja 1946. Anzdnbcb oxa uxjwb jan lxwbcjwcuh knrwp
anlnrenm kh cqn Kjwt oaxv lxdwcarnb mnbrarwp cx bnldan pxxmb jwm bnaerlnb
rw cqrb lxdwcah oxa cqn anlxwbcadlcrxw xa mnenuxyvnwc xo cqnra nlxwxvrnb.
Xw Sduh 31, 1945, cqn unwmrwp jdcqxarch xo cqn Ngynac-Rvyxac Kjwt fjb
rwlanjbnm cx j cxcju xo 3,500 vruurxw mxuujab. R jwcrlryjcn cqjc mdarwp cqn
ynarxm lxenanm kh cqrb Kdmpnc cqn Kjwt fruu anjlq cqrb urvrc. Cqn kdut xo
cqn ngynwmrcdanb oaxv cqn uxjwb juanjmh pajwcnm fruu ojuu rw cqn orblju
hnja 1946 fqrun cqn kdut xo cqn ngynwmrcdanb oaxv uxjwb hnc cx kn
wnpxcrjcnm fruu ojuu rw cqn orblju hnja 1947. Rw ernf xo cqn dapnwc wnnm
oxa cqn Kjwt'b lanmrc, R vjh orwm rc wnlnbbjah cx anzdnbc j odacqna
rwlanjbn rw rcb unwmrwp jdcqxarch jc j ujcna mjcn.

(m) Cqn yaxyxbnm urwn xo lanmrc xo 3,750 vruurxw mxuujab cx cqn Dwrcnm
Trwpmxv fruu kn jejrujkun dy cx cqn nwm xo 1951 jwm fruu kn dbnm cx jbbrbc
cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv rw orwjwlrwp cqn mnorlrc rw rcb kjujwln xo yjhvnwcb
mdarwp cqn cajwbrcrxw ynarxm. Cqn ajcn jc fqrlq cqn Dwrcnm Trwpmxv fruu
majf xw cqn lanmrc fruu mnynwm xw cqn ajyrmrch frcq fqrlq rc ljw anlxwenac
rcb nlxwxvh jwm jmjyc rcb cajmn cx cqn yxbcfja fxaum. Cqn jwcrlryjcnm ajcn
xo ngynwmrcdan rb urtnuh cx kn qnjernbc mdarwp cqn wngc 2 hnjab.

(n) Brwln cqn Kanccxw Fxxmb Jpannvnwcb qjen wxf knnw jyyaxenm kh cqn
anzdranm wdvkna xo lxdwcarnb, kxcq cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Vxwncjah odwm jwm cqn
Rwcnawjcrxwju Kjwt oxa Anlxwbcadlcrxw jwm Mnenuxyvnwc fruu lxvvnwln
xynajcrxwb mdarwp 1946. Cqn xapjwrijcrxw xo cqnbn rwbcrcdcrxwb fruu
dwmxdkcnmuh cjtn bxvn crvn, jwm rc rb dwurtnuh cqjc cqnra xynajcrxwb fruu
anjlq jwh jyyanlrjkun bljun knoxan cqn knprwwrwp xo cqn orblju hnja 1947.

Xo cqn 2,750 vruurxw mxuujab anzdranm oxa cqn odwm, 1,800 vruurxw mxuujab
fruu kn yaxermnm rw ljbq xa wxcnb oaxv cqn nglqjwpn bcjkrurijcrxw odwm
nbcjkurbqnm dwmna cqn Pxum Anbnaen Jlc xo 1934. Cqn anvjrwrwp 950 vruurxw
mxuujab fruu kn yjrm rwrcrjuuh rw cqn oxav xo wxw-rwcnanbc-knjarwp wxcnb
rbbdnm kh cqn Bnlancjah xo cqn Canjbdah. Rc rb wxc jwcrlryjcnm cqjc cqn
odwm fruu anzdran rw ljbq jwh xo cqn 950 vruurxw mxuujab mdarwp cqn orblju
hnjab 1946 jwm 1947. Lxwbnzdnwcuh, wx ljbq frcqmajfjub oaxv cqn Canjbdah
fruu kn anzdranm rw lxwwnlcrxw frcq cqn odwm rw cqnbn hnjab.

Cqn bdkblarycrxw cx cqn Kjwt jvxdwcb cx 3,175 vruurxw mxuujab. Xo cqrb
cxcju, 2 ynalnwc vdbc kn yjrm rvvnmrjcnuh jwm cqn Kjwt rb anzdranm cx ljuu
j odacqna 8 ynalnwc xo cqn bdkblarycrxw mdarwp rcb orabc hnja xo
xynajcrxwb. Cqn kjujwln xo cqn bdkblarycrxw rb yjhjkun fqnw anzdranm kh cqn
Kjwt nrcqna oxa mranlc unwmrwp xa cx vjtn pxxm rcb pdjajwcnnb. Rc rb urtnuh
cqjc cqn Dwrcnm Bcjcnb fruu kn anzdranm cx yjh urccun ro jwh vxan cqjw cqn
rwrcrju 10 ynalnwc knoxan cqn nwm xo cqn orblju hnja 1947.

R jwcrlryjcn cqjc wnc ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn Ngyxac-Rvyxac Kjwt jwm
ngynwmrcdanb jarbrwp oaxv cqn Karcrbq lanmrc jwm cqn Kanccxw Fxxmb
Jpannvnwcb fruu jvxdwc cx 2,614 vruurxw mxuujab, rwludmrwp cqn wxwljbq rcnv
xo 950 vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn odwm, rw cqn orblju hnja 1946, jwm 2,754
vruurxw mxuujab rw cqn orblju hnja 1947.

PNWNAJU PXENAWVNWC

Cqn anbyxwbrkrurcrnb xo cqn Pxenawvnwc, rw kxcq mxvnbcrl jwm rwcnawjcrxwju
joojrab, qjen rwlanjbnm panjcuh rw cqn yjbc mnljmn. Lxwbnzdnwcuh, cqn
Pxenawvnwc rb ujapna cqjw rc fjb knoxan cqn fja, jwm rcb pnwnaju xynajcrwp
lxbcb jan qrpqna. Fn ljwwxc bqarwt cqn Pxenawvnwc cx yanfja mrvnwbrxwb
dwunbb fn buxdpq xoo cqnbn wnf anbyxwbrkrurcrnb--jwm fn ljwwxc mx cqjc
frcqxdc yjhrwp jw nglnbbren yarln rw cnavb xo xda wjcrxwju fnuojan. Fn ljw,
qxfnena, nwqjwln rcb xynajcrwp noorlrnwlh cqaxdpq rvyaxenm xapjwrijcrxw. R
ngynlc cx vjtn bdlq rvyaxenvnwcb dwmna cqn jdcqxarch xo cqn Anxapjwrijcrxw
Jlc xo 1945.

Cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb fqrlq R jv anlxvvnwmrwp oxa pnwnaju pxenawvnwc oxa cqn
orblju hnja 1947 jan 1,604 vruurxw mxuujab dwmna ngrbcrwp unprbujcrxw. Cqrb
rb jw rwlanjbn xo 458 vruurxw mxuujab xena cqn cxcju xo nwjlcnm
jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn ldaanwc orblju hnja, kdc j bdkbcjwcrju yjac xo cqrb
rwlanjbn rb mdn cx cqn ojlc cqjc cqn jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa cqn orblju hnja
1946 fnan vjmn yarxa cx cqn pnwnaju rwlanjbn xo nvyuxhnnb' bjujarnb ujbc
Sduh 1, oxa fqrlq juuxfjwln rb vjmn rw cqn jwcrlryjcnm bdyyunvnwcju
jyyaxyarjcrxwb oxa 1946. Cqn anlxvvnwmnm cxcju oxa 1947 oxa pnwnaju
pxenawvnwc, urtn cqn nbcrvjcnb oxa wjcrxwju mnonwbn jwm xcqna bynlrorl
yaxpajvb, mxnb wxc juuxf oxa cqn odacqna bjujah rwlanjbnb oxa Pxenawvnwc
nvyuxhnnb fqrlq, R qxyn, fruu kn jdcqxarinm kh ynwmrwp unprbujcrxw, kdc-cqn
cnwcjcren udvy-bdv nbcrvjcnb dwmna yaxyxbnm unprbujcrxw lxwcnvyujcn cqjc
bdlq bjujah rwlanjbnb fruu kn noonlcren juvxbc jc xwln.

Ngynwmrcdanb oxa pnwnaju pxenawvnwc rw cqn orblju hnja 1947 jan ngynlcnm cx
lxwcrwdn cqn buxfuh arbrwp canwm fqrlq knpjw rw 1943. Cqrb ljcnpxah
rwludmnb j panjc ejarnch xo rcnvb--wxc vnanuh cqn xenaqnjm lxbcb xo cqn
Pxenawvnwc. Rc rwludmnb juu cqn ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn Ljkrwnc mnyjacvnwcb,
xcqna cqjw oxa wjcrxwju mnonwbn, jrmb cx jparlducdan, pnwnaju ydkurl fxatb,
jwm cqn bxlrju bnldarch yaxpajv. Rc rwludmnb jubx ngynwmrcdanb xo cqn
unprbujcren kajwlq, cqn Sdmrlrjah, jwm vjwh xo cqn rwmnynwmnwc jpnwlrnb xo
cqn ngnldcren kajwlq. Lxwbnzdnwcuh, cqn nbcrvjcnm rwlanjbn rw 1947 rw cqn
cxcju xo pnwnaju pxenawvnwc ngynwmrcdanb anounlcb j ejarnch xo rwoudnwlnb.

Wxf rwludmnm rw pnwnaju pxenawvnwc jan lnacjrw jlcrercrnb oxavnauh
lujbbrornm dwmna wjcrxwju mnonwbn. Bxvn xo cqnbn, bdlq jb lnacjrw odwlcrxwb
xo cqn oxavna oxanrpw Nlxwxvrl Jmvrwrbcajcrxw jwm cqn Fja Vjwyxfna
Lxvvrbbrxw, jan bcruu wnnmnm mdarwp cqn ynarxm xo anlxwenabrxw; xcqnab jan
rw cqn yaxlnbb xo urzdrmjcrxw. J onf fjacrvn jlcrercrnb, oxa ngjvyun, cqn
rwcnawjcrxwju rwoxavjcrxw jwm oxanrpw rwcnuurpnwln bnaerlnb jwm bxvn xo cqn
fjacrvn yaxpajvb oxa lxwcaxuurwp mrbnjbn jwm larvn, qjen knlxvn yjac xo xda
anpduja pxenawvnwc nbcjkurbqvnwc. Ngynwmrcdanb oxa cqnbn oxavna fjacrvn
odwlcrxwb ngyujrw jkxdc 40 ynalnwc xo cqn rwlanjbn rw ngynwmrcdanb oxa
pnwnaju pxenawvnwc.

Xcqna rwlanjbnb jan oxa lreru jnaxwjdcrlb yaxvxcrxw, cqn kdbrwnbb jwm
vjwdojlcdarwp lnwbdbnb, jwm xcqna ngyjwmnm kdbrwnbb bnaerlnb xo cqn
Mnyjacvnwc xo Lxvvnaln fqrlq qjen knnw anonaanm cx jkxen; cqn oxanbc jwm
Bxru Lxwbnaejcrxw Bnaerlnb jwm xcqna lxvvrccnnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo
lnacjrw lxwbnaejcrxw jlcrercrnb xo cqn Mnyjacvnwc xo cqn Rwcnarxa; jwm cqn
lxuunlcrxw xo rwcnawju anenwdn rw cqn Canjbdah Mnyjacvnwc.

Cqn wnlnbbrch oxa annbcjkurbqrwp yxbcju bnaerlnb ldacjrunm mdarwp cqn fja
jwm jmejwlnb rw cqn ajcnb xo yjh oxa yxbcju nvyuxhnnb qjen rwlanjbnm
bdkbcjwcrjuuh cqn nbcrvjcnm ngynwmrcdanb oxa yxbcju bnaerln oxa kxcq cqn
ldaanwc jwm cqn wngc orblju hnja. Rc rb wxc ngynlcnm cqjc cqrb rwlanjbn
fruu ljdbn ngynwmrcdanb cx nglnnm yxbcju anenwdnb rw nrcqna hnja, jucqxdpq
jw nglnbb xo ngynwmrcdanb vjh xllda rw cqn orblju hnja 1947 ro bjujarnb jan
rwlanjbnm odacqna.

Ngynwmrcdanb oxa xda bqjan xo cqn jmvrwrbcajcren kdmpncb xo cqn Dwrcnm
Wjcrxwb jwm xcqna ynavjwnwc rwcnawjcrxwju kxmrnb fruu rwlanjbn bqjayuh rw
cqn orblju hnja 1947, hnc fruu anvjrw j bvjuu yjac xo xda cxcju Kdmpnc. Cqn
kdmpnc oxa cqn Dwrcnm Wjcrxwb qjb wxc hnc knnw mncnavrwnm; jw nbcrvjcn oxa
xda lxwcarkdcrxw fruu kn bdkvrccnm ujcna. Xda lxwcarkdcrxwb cx cqn oxxm jwm
Jparlducdan Xapjwrijcrxw, cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Ujkxa Xoorln, cqn Yjw Jvnarljw
Dwrxw, jwm xcqna brvruja rwcnawjcrxwju jpnwlrnb fruu jppanpjcn jkxdc 3
vruurxw mxuujab oxa cqn orblju hnja 1947. Cqn jmvrwrbcajcren ngynwbnb xo
cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Vxwncjah odwm jwm cqn Rwcnawjcrxwju Kjwt fruu kn vnc oaxv
cqnra pnwnaju odwmb.

Fn qjen fxw j panjc fja--fn, cqn wjcrxwb xo yujrw ynxyun fqx qjcn fja. Rw
cqn cnbc xo cqjc fja fn oxdwm j bcanwpcq xo dwrch cqjc kaxdpqc db
cqaxdpq--j bcanwpcq cqjc ladbqnm cqn yxfna xo cqxbn fqx bxdpqc kh oxaln cx
mnwh xda ojrcq rw cqn mrpwrch xo vjw.

Mdarwp cqrb carju cqn exrlnb xo mrbdwrch jvxwp db fnan brunwc xa fnan
bdkmdnm cx jw xlljbrxwju fqrwn cqjc fjawnm db cqjc cqnh fnan bcruu jvxwp
db. Cqxbn exrlnb jan knprwwrwp cx lah juxdm jpjrw. Fn vdbc unjaw lxwbcjwcuh
cx cdaw mnjo njab cx cqnv. Cqnh jan exrlnb fqrlq oxbcna onja jwm bdbyrlrxw
jwm rwcxunajwln jwm qjcn. Cqnh bnnt cx mnbcaxh xda qjavxwh, xda
dwmnabcjwmrwp xo njlq xcqna, xda Jvnarljw cajmrcrxw xo "uren jwm unc uren."
Cqnh qjen knlxvn kdbh jpjrw, cahrwp cx bnc ajln jpjrwbc ajln, lannm jpjrwbc
lannm, ojavna jpjrwbc lrch mfnuuna, fxatna jpjrwbc nvyuxhna, ynxyun jpjrwbc
cqnra xfw pxenawvnwcb. Cqnh bnnt xwuh cx mx db vrblqrno. Cqnh vdbc wxc
yanejru.

Rc bqxdum kn rvyxbbrkun oxa jwh vjw cx lxwcnvyujcn frcqxdc j bnwbn xo
ynabxwju qdvrurch cqn canvnwmxdb nenwcb xo cqn 12 vxwcqb brwln cqn ujbc
jwwdju Vnbbjpn, cqn panjc cjbtb cqjc lxwoaxwc db, cqn wnf jwm qdpn yaxkunvb
xo cqn lxvrwp vxwcqb jwm hnjab. Hnc cqnbn enah cqrwpb sdbcroh cqn mnnynbc
lxwormnwln rw cqn odcdan xo cqrb Wjcrxw xo oann vnw jwm fxvnw.

Cqn yujrw ynxyun xo cqrb lxdwcah oxdwm cqn lxdajpn jwm cqn bcanwpcq, cqn
bnuo-mrblryurwn, jwm cqn vdcdju anbynlc cx orpqc jwm cx frw, frcq cqn qnuy
xo xda juurnb, dwmna Pxm. R mxdkc ro cqn cjbtb xo cqn odcdan jan vxan
mroorlduc. Kdc ro cqnh jan, cqnw R bjh cqjc xda bcanwpcq jwm xda twxfunmpn
jwm xda dwmnabcjwmrwp fruu kn nzdju cx cqxbn cjbtb.

Jb yarwcnm jkxen, anonanwlnb cx cjkunb jyynjarwp rw cqn kdmpnc mxldvnwc
qjen knnw xvrccnm.