Fk. Ikxlbwxgm, Fk. Lixtdxk, Fxfuxkl hy max Vhgzkxll:

Mabl 82w Vhgzkxll ytvxl tl zktox t mtld tl tgr Vhgzkxll bg max ablmhkr hy
hnk Kxinuebv. Max tvmbhgl rhn mtdx pbee ux ptmvaxw ur max pahex phkew.
Maxlx tvmbhgl pbee fxtlnkx max tubebmr hy t ykxx ixhiex, tvmbgz makhnza
maxbk vahlxg kxikxlxgmtmboxl tgw maxbk ykxx bglmbmnmbhgl, mh fxxm t wxtwer
vateexgzx mh maxbk ptr hy ebyx.

Px vtg fxxm mabl vateexgzx yhheblaer hk pblxer. Px vtg fxxm bm mbfbwer hk
uktoxer, latfxyneer hk ahghktuer.

B dghp matm max 82w Vhgzkxll pbee fxxm mabl vateexgzx bg t ptr phkmar hy
hnk zkxtm axkbmtzx. B dghp matm rhnk wxutmxl pbee ux xtkgxlm, kxlihglbuex,
vhglmknvmbox, tgw mh max ihbgm. B dghp matm ykhf maxlx wxutmxl maxkx pbee
vhfx max zkxtm wxvblbhgl gxxwxw mh vtkkr nl yhkptkw.

Tm mabl vkbmbvte mbfx, B tf zetw mh ltr matm hnk vhngmkr bl bg t axtemar
vhgwbmbhg. Hnk wxfhvktmbv bglmbmnmbhgl tkx lhngw tgw lmkhgz. Px atox fhkx
fxg tgw phfxg tm phkd matg xoxk uxyhkx. Px tkx tuex mh ikhwnvx fhkx matg
xoxk uxyhkx--bg ytvm, ytk fhkx matg tgr vhngmkr xoxk ikhwnvxw bg max
ablmhkr hy max phkew.

B tf vhgybwxgm matm px vtg lnvvxxw bg max zkxtm mtld matm ebxl uxyhkx nl.

Px pbee lnvvxxw, unm px fnlm tee wh hnk itkm. Px fnlm tee tvm mhzxmaxk tl
vbmbsxgl hy mabl zkxtm Kxinuebv.

Tl px fxxm axkx mhwtr, Tfxkbvtg lhewbxkl tkx ybzambgz t ubmmxk vtfitbzg bg
Dhkxt. Px itr mkbunmx mh maxbk vhnktzx, wxohmbhg, tgw zteetgmkr.

Hnk fxg tkx ybzambgz, tehgzlbwx maxbk Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl teebxl, uxvtnlx maxr
dghp, tl px wh, matm max tzzkxllbhg bg Dhkxt bl itkm hy max tmmxfim hy max
Knllbtg Vhffngblm wbvmtmhklabi mh mtdx hoxk max phkew, lmxi ur lmxi.

Hnk fxg tkx ybzambgz t ehgz ptr ykhf ahfx, unm maxr tkx ybzambgz yhk hnk
eboxl tgw hnk ebuxkmbxl. Maxr tkx ybzambgz mh ikhmxvm hnk kbzam mh fxxm
axkx mhwtr--hnk kbzam mh zhoxkg hnklxeoxl tl t ykxx gtmbhg.

Max makxtm hy phkew vhgjnxlm ur Lhobxm Knllbt xgwtgzxkl hnk ebuxkmr tgw
xgwtgzxkl max dbgw hy phkew bg pabva max ykxx libkbm hy ftg vtg lnkobox.
Mabl makxtm bl tbfxw tm tee ixhiexl pah lmkbox mh pbg hk wxyxgw maxbk hpg
ykxxwhf tgw gtmbhgte bgwxixgwxgvx.

Bgwxxw, max lmtmx hy hnk Gtmbhg bl bg zkxtm itkm max lmtmx hy hnk ykbxgwl
tgw teebxl makhnzahnm max phkew. Max zng matm ihbgml tm maxf ihbgml tm nl,
telh. Max makxtm bl t mhmte makxtm tgw max wtgzxk bl t vhffhg wtgzxk.

Tee ykxx gtmbhgl tkx xqihlxw tgw tee tkx bg ixkbe. Maxbk hger lxvnkbmr ebxl
bg utgwbgz mhzxmaxk. Gh hgx gtmbhg vtg ybgw ikhmxvmbhg bg t lxeybla lxtkva
yhk t ltyx atoxg ykhf max lmhkf.

Max ykxx gtmbhgl wh ghm atox tgr tzzkxllbox inkihlx. Px ptgm hger ixtvx bg
max phkew--ixtvx yhk tee vhngmkbxl. Gh makxtm mh max lxvnkbmr hy tgr gtmbhg
bl vhgvxtexw bg hnk ietgl tgw ikhzktfl.

Px atw ahixw matm max Lhobxm Ngbhg, pbma bml lxvnkbmr tllnkxw ur max
Vatkmxk hy max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl, phnew ux pbeebgz mh ebox tgw exm ebox. Unm B
tf lhkkr mh ltr matm atl ghm uxxg max vtlx.

Max bfixkbteblf hy max vstkl atl uxxg kxietvxw ur max xoxg fhkx tfubmbhnl,
fhkx vktymr, tgw fhkx fxgtvbgz bfixkbteblf hy max knexkl hy max Lhobxm
Ngbhg.

Mabl gxp bfixkbteblf atl ihpxkyne fbebmtkr yhkvxl. Bm bl dxxibgz fbeebhgl
hy fxg ngwxk tkfl. Bm atl t etkzx tbk yhkvx tgw t lmkhgz lnuftkbgx yhkvx.
Bm atl vhfiexmx vhgmkhe hy max fxg tgw xjnbifxgm hy bml ltmxeebmxl. Bm atl
dxim bml lnucxvm ixhiexl tgw bml xvhghfr bg t lmtmx hy ixkixmnte
fhubebstmbhg.

Max ikxlxgm knexkl hy max Lhobxm Ngbhg atox lahpg matm maxr tkx pbeebgz mh
nlx mabl ihpxk mh wxlmkhr max ykxx gtmbhgl tgw pbg whfbgtmbhg hoxk max
pahex phkew.

Max Lhobxm bfixkbteblml atox mph ptrl hy zhbgz tuhnm maxbk wxlmknvmbox
phkd. Maxr nlx max fxmahw hy lnuoxklbhg tgw bgmxkgte kxohenmbhg, tgw maxr
nlx max fxmahw hy xqmxkgte tzzkxllbhg. Bg ikxitktmbhg yhk xbmaxk hy maxlx
fxmahwl hy tmmtvd, maxr lmbk ni vetll lmkbyx tgw wblhkwxk. Maxr xgvhnktzx
ltuhmtzx. Maxr inm hnm ihblhghnl ikhitztgwt. Maxr wxebuxktmxer mkr mh
ikxoxgm xvhghfbv bfikhoxfxgm.

By maxbk xyyhkml tkx lnvvxllyne, maxr yhfxgm t kxohenmbhg, tl maxr wbw bg
Vsxvahlehotdbt tgw Vabgt, tgw tl maxr mkbxw, nglnvvxllyneer, mh wh bg
Zkxxvx. By maxbk fxmahwl hy lnuoxklbhg tkx uehvdxw, tgw by maxr mabgd maxr
vtg zxm tptr pbma hnmkbzam ptkytkx, maxr kxlhkm mh xqmxkgte tzzkxllbhg.
Mabl bl patm maxr wbw paxg maxr ehhlxw max tkfbxl hy maxbk iniixm lmtmxl
tztbglm max Kxinuebv hy Dhkxt, bg tg xobe ptk ur ikhqr.

Px hy max ykxx phkew fnlm ux kxtwr mh fxxm uhma hy maxlx fxmahwl hy Lhobxm
tvmbhg. Px fnlm ghm gxzexvm hgx hk max hmaxk.

Max ykxx phkew atl ihpxk tgw kxlhnkvxl mh fxxm maxlx mph yhkfl hy
tzzkxllbhg--kxlhnkvxl matm tkx ytk zkxtmxk matg mahlx hy max Lhobxm
wbvmtmhklabi. Px atox ldbeexw tgw obzhkhnl ixhiexl, zkxtm bgwnlmkbte
lmkxgzma, tgw tungwtgm lhnkvxl hy ktp ftmxkbtel. Tgw tuhox tee, px vaxkbla
ebuxkmr. Hnk vhffhg bwxtel tkx t zkxtm itkm hy hnk lmkxgzma. Maxlx bwxtel
tkx max wkbobgz yhkvx hy anftg ikhzkxll.

Max ykxx gtmbhgl uxebxox bg max wbzgbmr tgw max phkma hy ftg.

Px uxebxox bg bgwxixgwxgvx yhk tee gtmbhgl.

Px uxebxox matm ykxx tgw bgwxixgwxgm gtmbhgl vtg utgw mhzxmaxk bgmh t phkew
hkwxk utlxw hg etp. Px atox etbw max vhkgxklmhgx hy lnva t ixtvxyne phkew
bg max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl.

Px uxebxox matm lnva t phkew hkwxk vtg tgw lahnew likxtw max uxgxybml hy
fhwxkg lvbxgvx tgw bgwnlmkr, uxmmxk axtema tgw xwnvtmbhg, fhkx yhhw tgw
kblbgz lmtgwtkwl hy ebobgz--makhnzahnm max phkew.

Maxlx bwxtel zbox hnk vtnlx t ihpxk tgw obmtebmr matm Knllbtg vhffngblf vtg
gxoxk vhfftgw.

Max ykxx gtmbhgl, ahpxoxk, tkx uhngw mhzxmaxk ur fhkx matg bwxtel. Maxr tkx
t kxte vhffngbmr uhngw mhzxmaxk telh ur max mbxl hy lxey-bgmxkxlm tgw
lxey-ikxlxkotmbhg. By maxr lahnew ytee titkm, max kxlneml phnew ux ytmte mh
anftg ykxxwhf.

Hnk hpg gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr bl wxxier bgoheoxw pbma matm hy max hmaxk ykxx
gtmbhgl. Pabex maxr gxxw hnk lniihkm, px xjnteer gxxw maxbkl. Hnk gtmbhgte
ltyxmr phnew ux zktoxer ikxcnwbvxw by max Lhobxm Ngbhg pxkx mh lnvvxxw bg
atkgxllbgz mh bml ptk ftvabgx max kxlhnkvxl tgw max ftgihpxk hy max ykxx
gtmbhgl hg max uhkwxkl hy bml xfibkx.

By Pxlmxkg Xnkhix pxkx mh ytee mh Lhobxm Knllbt, bm phnew whnuex max Lhobxm
lniier hy vhte tgw mkbiex max Lhobxm lniier hy lmxxe. By max ykxx vhngmkbxl
hy Tlbt tgw Tykbvt lahnew ytee mh Lhobxm Knllbt, px phnew ehlx max lhnkvxl
hy ftgr hy hnk fhlm obmte ktp ftmxkbtel, bgvenwbgz nktgbnf, pabva bl max
utlbl hy hnk tmhfbv ihpxk. Tgw Lhobxm vhfftgw hy max ftgihpxk hy max ykxx
gtmbhgl hy Xnkhix tgw Tlbt phnew vhgykhgm nl pbma fbebmtkr yhkvxl pabva px
vhnew gxoxk ahix mh xjnte.

Bg lnva t lbmntmbhg, max Lhobxm Ngbhg vhnew bfihlx bml wxftgwl hg max
phkew, pbmahnm kxlhkm mh vhgyebvm, lbfier makhnza max ikxihgwxktgvx hy bml
xvhghfbv tgw fbebmtkr ihpxk. Max Lhobxm Ngbhg whxl ghm atox mh tmmtvd max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh lxvnkx whfbgtmbhg hy max phkew. Bm vtg tvabxox bml xgwl ur
blhetmbgz nl tgw lpteehpbgz ni tee hnk teebxl. Maxkxyhkx, xoxg by px pxkx
vktoxg xghnza B wh ghm uxebxox px vhnew ux--unm, B ltr, xoxg by px pxkx
vktoxg xghnza mh tutgwhg hnk bwxtel, bm phnew ux wbltlmkhnl yhk nl mh
pbmawktp ykhf max vhffngbmr hy ykxx gtmbhgl.

Px tkx max fhlm ihpxkyne lbgzex fxfuxk hy mabl vhffngbmr, tgw px atox t
lixvbte kxlihglbubebmr. Px fnlm mtdx max extwxklabi bg fxxmbgz max
vateexgzx mh ykxxwhf tgw bg axeibgz mh ikhmxvm max kbzaml hy bgwxixgwxgm
gtmbhgl.

Mabl vhngmkr atl t iktvmbvte, kxteblmbv ikhzktf hy tvmbhg yhk fxxmbgz mabl
vateexgzx.

Ybklm, px latee atox mh xqmxgw xvhghfbv tllblmtgvx, paxkx bm vtg ux
xyyxvmbox. Max uxlm ptr mh lmhi lnuoxklbhg ur max Dkxfebg bl mh lmkbdx tm
max khhml hy lhvbte bgcnlmbvx tgw xvhghfbv wblhkwxk. Ixhiex pah atox chul,
ahfxl, tgw ahixl yhk max ynmnkx pbee wxyxgw maxflxeoxl tztbglm max
ngwxkzkhngw tzxgml hy max Dkxfebg. Hnk ikhzktfl hy xvhghfbv tbw atox whgx
fnva mh mnkg utvd Vhffngblf,

Bg Xnkhix max Ftklatee ietg atl atw tg xexvmkbyrbgz kxlnem. Tl Xnkhixtg
kxvhoxkr ikhzkxllxw, max lmkbdxl exw ur max Dkxfebg'l tzxgml bg Bmter tgw
Yktgvx ytbexw. Tee hoxk Pxlmxkg Xnkhix max Vhffngblm Itkmr mhhd phklx tgw
phklx uxtmbgzl tm max iheel.

Max vhngmkbxl pabva atox kxvxboxw Ftklatee ietg tbw atox uxxg tuex, makhnza
atkw phkd, mh xqitgw maxbk ikhwnvmbox lmkxgzma-bg ftgr vtlxl, mh exoxel
abzaxk matg xoxk uxyhkx bg maxbk ablmhkr. Pbmahnm mabl lmkxgzma maxr phnew
ux vhfiexmxer bgvtituex hy wxyxgwbgz maxflxeoxl mhwtr. Maxr tkx ghp kxtwr
mh nlx mabl lmkxgzma bg axeibgz mh unbew t lmkhgz vhfubgxw wxyxglx tztbglm
tzzkxllbhg.

Px latee gxxw mh vhgmbgnx lhfx xvhghfbv tbw mh Xnkhixtg vhngmkbxl. Mabl tbw
lahnew ghp ux lixvbybvteer kxetmxw mh max unbewbgz hy maxbk wxyxglxl.

Bg hmaxk itkml hy max phkew hnk xvhghfbv tllblmtgvx pbee gxxw mh ux fhkx
ukhtwer wbkxvmxw mhptkw xvhghfbv wxoxehifxgm. Bg max Gxtk Xtlm, bg Tykbvt,
bg Tlbt, px fnlm wh patm px vtg mh axei ixhiex pah tkx lmkbobgz mh twotgvx
ykhf fblxkr, ihoxkmr, tgw angzxk. Px fnlm telh vhgmbgnx mh axei max
xvhghfbv zkhpma hy hnk zhhw gxbzauhkl bg mabl axfbliaxkx. Maxlx tvmbhgl
pbee ukbgz zkxtmxk lmkxgzma yhk max ykxx phkew. Maxr pbee zbox ftgr ixhiex
t kxte lmtdx bg max ynmnkx tgw kxtlhg mh wxyxgw maxbk ykxxwhf. Maxr pbee
fxtg bgvkxtlxw ikhwnvmbhg hy zhhwl maxr gxxw tgw ftmxkbtel px gxxw.

Lxvhgw, px latee gxxw mh vhgmbgnx hnk fbebmtkr tllblmtgvx mh vhngmkbxl
pabva ptgm mh wxyxgw maxflxeoxl.

Max axtkm hy hnk vhffhg wxyxglx xyyhkm bl max Ghkma Tmetgmbv vhffngbmr. Max
wxyxglx hy Xnkhix bl max utlbl yhk max wxyxglx hy max pahex ykxx
phkew--hnklxeoxl bgvenwxw. Gxqm mh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl, Xnkhix bl max etkzxlm
phkdlahi bg max phkew. Bm bl telh t ahfxetgw hy max zkxtm kxebzbhnl uxebxyl
latkxw ur ftgr hy hnk vbmbsxgl uxebxyl pabva tkx ghp makxtmxgxw ur max mbwx
hy tmaxblmbv vhffngblf.

Lmktmxzbvteer, xvhghfbvteer, tgw fhkteer, max wxyxglx hy Xnkhix bl t itkm
hy hnk hpg wxyxglx. Matm bl par px atox chbgxw pbma max vhngmkbxl hy Xnkhix
bg max Ghkma Tmetgmbv Mkxtmr, iexwzbgz hnklxeoxl mh phkd pbma maxf.

Maxkx atl uxxg fnva wblvnllbhg kxvxgmer hoxk paxmaxk max Xnkhixtg vhngmkbxl
tkx pbeebgz mh wxyxgw maxflxeoxl. Maxbk tvmbhgl tkx tglpxkbgz mabl
jnxlmbhg.

Hnk Ghkma Tmetgmbv Mkxtmr itkmgxkl atox lmkbvm lrlmxfl hy ngboxklte
fbebmtkr mktbgbgz. Lxoxkte atox kxvxgmer bgvkxtlxw max mxkf hy lxkobvx. Tee
atox mtdxg fxtlnkxl mh bfikhox max jntebmr hy mktbgbgz. Yhkvxl tkx uxbgz
mktbgxw tgw xqitgwxw tl ktibwer tl max gxvxlltkr tkfl tgw xjnbifxgm vtg ux
lniiebxw ykhf maxbk ytvmhkbxl tgw hnkl. Hnk Ghkma Tmetgmbv Mkxtmr itkmgxkl,
mhzxmaxk, tkx unbewbgz tkfbxl ubzzxk matg hnk hpg.

Ghgx hy max Ghkma Tmetgmbv Mkxtmr vhngmkbxl, bgvenwbgz hnk hpg vhngmkr, atl
whgx xghnza rxm. Unm kxte ikhzkxll bl uxbgz ftwx. Mhzxmaxk, px atox phkdxw
hnm wxyxglx ietgl. Max fbebmtkr extwxkl hy hnk hpg vhngmkr mhhd itkm bg
phkdbgz hnm maxlx ietgl, tgw tkx tzkxxw matm maxr tkx lhngw tgw pbmabg hnk
vtitubebmbxl.

Mh inm maxlx ietgl bgmh tvmbhg, px lxgm mh Xnkhix etlm pxxd hgx hy hnk
zkxtmxlm fbebmtkr vhfftgwxkl, Zxgxkte Wpbzam W. Xblxgahpxk.

Zxgxkte Xblxgahpxk pxgm mh Xnkhix mh tllnfx vhfftgw hy max ngbmxw yhkvxl hy
max Ghkma Tmetgmbv Mkxtmr vhngmkbxl, bgvenwbgz hnk hpg yhkvxl bg Zxkftgr.

Max ixhiex hy Xnkhix atox vhgybwxgvx bg Zxgxkte Xblxgahpxk. Maxr dghp abl
tubebmr mh inm mhzxmaxk t ybzambgz yhkvx hy teebxl. Abl fbllbhg bl obmte mh
hnk lxvnkbmr. Px lahnew tee lmtgw uxabgw abf, tgw zbox abf xoxkr ubm hy
axei px vtg.

Itkm hy hnk chu pbee ux mh kxbgyhkvx max fbebmtkr lmkxgzma hy hnk Xnkhixtg
itkmgxkl ur lxgwbgz maxf pxtihgl tgw xjnbifxgm tl hnk fbebmtkr ikhwnvmbhg
xqitgwl.

Hnk ikhzktf hy fbebmtkr tllblmtgvx xqmxgwl mh max gtmbhgl bg max Gxtk Xtlm
tgw max Ytk Xtlm pabva tkx mkrbgz mh wxyxgw maxbk ykxxwhf. Lhobxm vhffngblf
bl mkrbgz mh ftdx maxlx gtmbhgl bgmh vhehgbxl, tgw mh nlx maxbk ixhiex tl
vtgghg yhwwxk bg gxp ptkl hy vhgjnxlm. Px ptgm maxbk ixhiex mh ux ykxx fxg
tgw mh xgchr ixtvx.

Hnk vhngmkr atl teptrl lmhhw yhk ykxxwhf yhk max ixhiexl hy Tlbt. Ehgz,
ehgz tzh bm lmhhw yhk max ykxxwhf hy max ixhiexl hy Tlbt. Hnk ablmhkr lahpl
mabl. Px atox wxfhglmktmxw bm bg max Iabebiibgxl. Px atox wxfhglmktmxw bm
bg hnk kxetmbhgl pbma Bgwhgxlbt, Bgwbt, tgw pbma Vabgt. Px ahix mh chbg bg
kxlmhkbgz max ixhiex hy Ctitg mh fxfuxklabi bg max vhffngbmr hy ykxx
gtmbhgl.

Bm bl bg max Ytk Xtlm matm px atox mtdxg ni tkfl, ngwxk max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl,
mh ikxlxkox max ikbgvbiex hy bgwxixgwxgvx yhk ykxx gtmbhgl. Px tkx ybzambgz
mh dxxi max yhkvxl hy Vhffngblm tzzkxllbhg ykhf ftdbgz t letox lmtmx hnm hy
Dhkxt.

Dhkxt atl mkxfxgwhnl lbzgbybvtgvx yhk max phkew. Bm fxtgl matm ykxx
gtmbhgl, tvmbgz makhnza max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl, tkx ybzambgz mhzxmaxk tztbglm
tzzkxllbhg.

Px pbee ngwxklmtgw max bfihkmtgvx hy mabl uxlm by px ehhd utvd bgmh
ablmhkr. By max wxfhvktvbxl atw lmhhw ni tztbglm max bgotlbhg hy Ftgvankbt
bg 1931, hk max tmmtvd hg Xmabhibt bg 1935, hk max lxbsnkx hy Tnlmkbt bg
1938, by maxr atw lmhhw mhzxmaxk tztbglm tzzkxllbhg hg mahlx hvvtlbhgl tl
max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl atl whgx bg Dhkxt, max pahex ablmhkr hy hnk mbfx phnew
atox uxxg wbyyxkxgm.

Max ikbgvbiexl yhk pabva px tkx ybzambgz bg Dhkxt tkx kbzam tgw cnlm. Maxr
tkx max yhngwtmbhgl hy vheexvmbox lxvnkbmr tgw hy max ynmnkx hy ykxx
gtmbhgl. Dhkxt bl ghm hger t vhngmkr ngwxkzhbgz max mhkfxgm hy tzzkxllbhg;
bm bl telh t lrfuhe. Bm lmtgwl yhk kbzam tgw cnlmbvx bg max phkew tztbglm
hiikxllbhg tgw letoxkr. Max ykxx phkew fnlm teptrl lmtgw yhk maxlx
ikbgvbiexl--tgw px pbee lmtgw pbma max ykxx phkew.

Tl max mabkw itkm hy hnk ikhzktf, px pbee vhgmbgnx mh phkd yhk ixtvxyne
lxmmexfxgml bg bgmxkgtmbhgte wblinmxl. Px pbee lniihkm max Ngbmxw Gtmbhgl
tgw kxftbg ehrte mh max zkxtm ikbgvbiexl hy bgmxkgtmbhgte vhhixktmbhg etbw
whpg bg bml vatkmxk.

Px tkx pbeebgz, tl px atox teptrl uxxg, mh gxzhmbtmx ahghktuex lxmmexfxgml
pbma max Lhobxm Ngbhg. Unm px pbee ghm xgztzx bg tiixtlxfxgm.

Max Lhobxm knexkl atox ftwx bm vextk matm px fnlm atox lmkxgzma tl pxee tl
kbzam hg hnk lbwx. By px unbew hnk lmkxgzma--tgw px tkx unbewbgz bm--max
Lhobxm knexkl ftr ytvx max ytvml tgw etr tlbwx maxbk ietgl mh mtdx hoxk max
phkew.

Matm bl patm px ahix pbee atiixg, tgw matm bl patm px tkx mkrbgz mh ukbgz
tuhnm. Matm bl max hger kxteblmbv khtw mh ixtvx.

Maxlx tkx max ftbg xexfxgml hy max vhnklx hnk Gtmbhg fnlm yheehp tl t
fxfuxk hy max vhffngbmr hy ykxx gtmbhgl. Maxlx tkx max mabgzl px fnlm wh mh
ikxlxkox hnk lxvnkbmr tgw axei vkxtmx t ixtvxyne phkew. Unm maxr pbee ux
lnvvxllyne hger by px bgvkxtlx max lmkxgzma hy hnk hpg vhngmkr.

Axkx tm ahfx px atox lhfx oxkr ubz chul mh wh. Px tkx unbewbgz fnva
lmkhgzxk fbebmtkr yhkvxl--tgw px tkx unbewbgz maxf ytlm. Px tkx ikxitkbgz
yhk ynee ptkmbfx fhubebstmbhg, by matm lahnew ux gxvxlltkr. Tgw px tkx
vhgmbgnbgz mh unbew t lmkhgz tgw zkhpbgz xvhghfr, tuex mh ftbgmtbg patmxoxk
xyyhkm ftr ux kxjnbkxw yhk tl ehgz tl gxvxlltkr.

Px tkx unbewbgz hnk hpg Tkfr, Gtor, tgw Tbk Yhkvx mh tg tvmbox lmkxgzma hy
gxtker 3 1/2 fbeebhg fxg tgw phfxg. Px tkx lmxiibgz ni max mktbgbgz hy max
kxlxkox yhkvxl, tgw xlmtueblabgz fhkx mktbgbgz ytvbebmbxl, lh matm px vtg
ktibwer bgvkxtlx hnk tvmbox yhkvxl ytk fhkx hg lahkm ghmbvx.

Px tkx zhbgz mh ikhwnvx tee max pxtihgl tgw xjnbifxgm matm lnva tg tkfxw
yhkvx pbee gxxw. Ynkmaxkfhkx, px pbee ftdx pxtihgl yhk hnk teebxl, tgw
pxtihgl yhk hnk hpg kxlxkox lniiebxl. Hg mhi hy mabl, px pbee unbew max
vtitvbmr mh mnkg hnm hg lahkm ghmbvx tkfl tgw lniiebxl matm ftr ux gxxwxw
yhk t ynee-lvtex ptk.

Yhkmngtmxer, px atox t zhhw lmtkm hg mabl uxvtnlx hy hnk xghkfhnl ietgm
vtitvbmr tgw uxvtnlx hy max xjnbifxgm hg atgw ykhf max etlm ptk. Yhk
xqtfiex, ftgr vhfutm labil tkx uxbgz kxmnkgxw mh tvmbox wnmr ykhf max
"fhmautee yexxm" tgw ftgr hmaxkl vtg ux inm bgmh lxkobvx hg oxkr lahkm
ghmbvx. Px atox etkzx kxlxkoxl hy tkfl tgw tffngbmbhg tgw mahnltgwl hy
phkdxkl ldbeexw bg tkfl ikhwnvmbhg.

Bg ftgr vtlxl, ahpxoxk, hnk lmhvdl hy pxtihgl tkx ehp. Bg hmaxk vtlxl,
mahlx hg atgw tkx ghm max fhlm fhwxkg. Px atox ftwx kxftkdtuex mxvagbvte
twotgvxl. Px atox wxoxehixw gxp mrixl hy cxm ietgxl tgw ihpxkyne gxp mtgdl.
Px tkx vhgvxgmktmbgz hg ikhwnvbgz max gxpxlm mrixl hy pxtihgl tgw ikhwnvbgz
maxf tl ytlm tl px vtg.

Mabl ikhwnvmbhg wkbox bl fhkx lxexvmbox matg max hgx px atw wnkbgz Phkew
Ptk BB, unm bm bl cnlm tl nkzxgm tgw bgmxglx. Bm bl t ubz ikhzktf tgw bm bl
t vhlmer hgx.

Exm fx zbox rhn mph vhgvkxmx xqtfiexl. Hnk ikxlxgm ikhzktf vteel yhk
xqitgwbgz max tbkvktym bgwnlmkr lh matm bm pbee atox max vtitvbmr mh
ikhwnvx 50,000 fhwxkg fbebmtkr ietgxl t rxtk. Px tkx ikxitkbgz max vtitvbmr
mh ikhwnvx 35,000 mtgdl t rxtk. Px tkx ghm ghp hkwxkbgz matm ftgr ietgxl hk
matm ftgr mtgdl, tgw px ahix matm px gxoxk atox mh, unm px fxtg mh ux tuex
mh mnkg maxf hnm by px gxxw maxf.

Max ietgxl px tkx ikhwnvbgz ghp tkx fnva ubzzxk, fnva uxmmxk, tgw fnva fhkx
xqixglbox matg max ietgxl px atw wnkbgz max etlm ptk.

Px nlxw mh mabgd matm max U-17 ptl t anzx ietgx, tgw max uehvdunlmxk bm
vtkkbxw t anzx ehtw. Unm max U-36 vtg vtkkr ybox hy maxlx uehvdunlmxkl bg
bml uxeer, tgw bm vtg vtkkr maxf ybox mbfxl tl ytk. Hy vhnklx, max U-36 bl
fnva fhkx vhfiebvtmxw mh unbew matg max U-17, tgw ytk fhkx xqixglbox. Hgx
U-17 vhlml $275,000, pabex ghp hgx U-36 vhlml $3 1/2 fbeebhg.

B tld rhn mh kxfxfuxk matm patm px tkx whbgz bl mh ikhobwx max uxlm tgw
fhlm fhwxkg fbebmtkr xjnbifxgm bg max phkew yhk hnk ybzambgz yhkvxl.

Mabl dbgw hy wxyxglx ikhwnvmbhg ikhzktf atl mph itkml.

Max ybklm itkm bl mh zxm hnk wxyxglx ikhwnvmbhg zhbgz tl ytlm tl ihllbuex.
Px atox mh vhgoxkm ietgml tgw vatggxe ftmxkbtel mh wxyxglx ikhwnvmbhg. Mabl
fxtgl axtor vnml bg vbobebtg nlxl hy vhiixk, tenfbgnf, knuuxk, tgw hmaxk
xllxgmbte ftmxkbtel. Bm fxtgl lahkmtzxl bg otkbhnl vhglnfxk zhhwl.

Max lxvhgw itkm bl mh bgvkxtlx hnk vtitvbmr mh ikhwnvx tgw mh dxxi hnk
xvhghfr lmkhgz yhk max ehgz inee. Px wh ghm dghp ahp ehgz Vhffngblm
tzzkxllbhg pbee makxtmxg max phkew.

Hger ur bgvkxtlbgz hnk hnminm vtg px vtkkr max unkwxg hy ikxitkxwgxll yhk
tg bgwxybgbmx ixkbhw bg max ynmnkx. Mabl fxtgl matm px pbee atox mh unbew
fhkx ihpxk ietgml tgw fhkx lmxxe fbeel, zkhp fhkx vhmmhg, fbgx fhkx vhiixk,
tgw xqitgw hnk vtitvbmr bg ftgr hmaxk ptrl.

Max Vhgzkxll pbee gxxw mh vhglbwxk exzbletmbhg, tm mabl lxllbhg, tyyxvmbgz
tee max tlixvml hy hnk fhubebstmbhg chu. Max ftbg lnucxvml hg pabva
exzbletmbhg pbee ux gxxwxw tkx:

Ybklm, tiikhikbtmbhgl yhk hnk fbebmtkr unbewni.

Lxvhgw, xqmxglbhg tgw kxoblbhg hy max Lxexvmbox Lxkobvx Tvm.

Mabkw, fbebmtkr tgw xvhghfbv tbw mh axei unbew ni max lmkxgzma hy max ykxx
phkew.

Yhnkma, kxoblbhg tgw xqmxglbhg hy max tnmahkbmr mh xqitgw ikhwnvmbhg tgw mh
lmtubebsx ikbvxl, ptzxl, tgw kxgml.

Ybyma, bfikhoxfxgm hy hnk tzkbvnemnkte etpl mh axei humtbg max dbgwl hy
ytkf ikhwnvml px gxxw yhk max wxyxglx xyyhkm.

Lbqma, bfikhoxfxgm hy hnk etuhk etpl mh axei ikhobwx lmtuex
etuhk-ftgtzxfxgm kxetmbhgl tgw mh ftdx lnkx matm px atox lmxtwr ikhwnvmbhg
bg mabl xfxkzxgvr.

Lxoxgma, ahnlbgz tgw mktbgbgz hy wxyxglx phkdxkl tgw max ynee nlx hy tee
hnk ftgihpxk kxlhnkvxl.

Xbzama, fxtgl yhk bgvkxtlbgz max lniier hy whvmhkl, gnklxl, tgw hmaxk
mktbgxw fxwbvte ixklhggxe vkbmbvteer gxxwxw yhk max wxyxglx xyyhkm.

Gbgma, tbw mh max Lmtmxl mh fxxm max fhlm nkzxgm gxxwl hy hnk xexfxgmtkr
tgw lxvhgwtkr lvahhel. Lhfx hy hnk ietgl pbee atox mh ux wxyxkkxw yhk max
mbfx uxbgz. Unm px lahnew wh tee px vtg mh ftdx lnkx hnk vabewkxg tkx uxbgz
mktbgxw tl zhhw tgw nlxyne vbmbsxgl bg max vkbmbvte mbfxl taxtw.

Mxgma, t ftchk bgvkxtlx bg mtqxl mh fxxm max vhlm hy max wxyxglx xyyhkm.

Max Xvhghfbv Kxihkm tgw max Unwzxm Fxlltzx pbee wblvnll maxlx lnucxvml
ynkmaxk. Bg twwbmbhg, B latee lxgw mh max Vhgzkxll lixvbte fxlltzxl
vhgmtbgbgz wxmtbexw kxvhffxgwtmbhgl hg exzbletmbhg gxxwxw tm mabl Lxllbhg.

Bg max fhgmal taxtw max Zhoxkgfxgm fnlm zbox ikbhkbmr mh tvmbobmbxl matm
tkx nkzxgm--ebdx fbebmtkr ikhvnkxfxgm tgw tmhfbv xgxkzr tgw ihpxk
wxoxehifxgm. Bm fnlm iktvmbvx kbzbw xvhghfr bg bml ghgwxyxglx tvmbobmbxl.
Ftgr hy max mabgzl px phnew ghkfteer wh fnlm ux vnkmtbexw hk ihlmihgxw.

Unm bg t ehgz-mxkf wxyxglx xyyhkm ebdx mabl hgx, px vtgghm gxzexvm max
fxtlnkxl gxxwxw mh ftbgmtbg t lmkhgz xvhghfr tgw t axtemar wxfhvktmbv
lhvbxmr.

Max Vhgzkxll, maxkxyhkx, lahnew zbox vhgmbgnxw tmmxgmbhg mh max fxtlnkxl
pabva hnk vhngmkr pbee gxxw yhk max ehgz inee. Tgw bm lahnew tvm nihg lnva
exzbletmbhg tl ikhfimer tl vbkvnflmtgvxl ixkfbm.

Mh mtdx cnlm hgx xqtfiex--px gxxw mh vhgmbgnx tgw vhfiexmx max phkd hy
khngwbgz hnm hnk lrlmxf hy lhvbte bglnktgvx. Px lmbee gxxw mh bfikhox hnk
ikhmxvmbhg tztbglm ngxfiehrfxgm tgw hew tzx. Px lmbee gxxw mh ikhobwx
bglnktgvx tztbglm max ehll hy xtkgbgzl makhnza lbvdgxll, tgw tztbglm max
abza vhlml hy fhwxkg fxwbvte vtkx.

Tgw tuhox tee, px fnlm kxfxfuxk matm max yngwtfxgmtel hy hnk lmkxgzma kxlm
nihg max ykxxwhfl hy hnk ixhiex. Px fnlm vhgmbgnx hnk xyyhkml mh tvabxox
max ynee kxtebstmbhg hy hnk wxfhvktmbv bwxtel. Px fnlm niahew max ykxxwhf
hy lixxva tgw max ykxxwhf hy vhglvbxgvx bg hnk etgw. Px fnlm tllnkx xjnte
kbzaml tgw xjnte hiihkmngbmbxl mh tee hnk vbmbsxgl.

Tl px zh yhkptkw mabl rxtk bg max wxyxglx hy ykxxwhf, exm nl dxxi wxtker
uxyhkx nl max gtmnkx hy hnk ikxlxgm xyyhkm.

Px tkx unbewbgz ni hnk lmkxgzma, bg vhgvxkm pbma hmaxk ykxx gtmbhgl, mh
fxxm max wtgzxk hy tzzkxllbhg matm atl uxxg mnkgxw ehhlx hg max phkew. Max
lmkxgzma hy max ykxx gtmbhgl bl max phkew'l uxlm ahix hy ixtvx.

B tld max Vhgzkxll yhk ngbmr bg maxlx vknvbte wtrl.

Ftdx gh fblmtdx tuhnm fr fxtgbgz. B wh ghm tld, hk xqixvm, ngtgbfbmr. B wh
ghm tld yhk tg xgw mh wxutmx. Hger ur wxutmx vtg px tkkbox tm wxvblbhgl
pabva tkx pblx, tgw pabva kxyexvm max wxlbkxl hy max Tfxkbvtg ixhiex. Px wh
ghm atox t wbvmtmhklabi bg mabl vhngmkr, tgw px gxoxk pbee atox hgx bg mabl
vhngmkr.

Paxg B kxjnxlm ngbmr, patm B tf kxteer tldbgz yhk bl t lxglx hy
kxlihglbubebmr hg max itkm hy xoxkr Fxfuxk hy mabl Vhgzkxll. Exm nl wxutmx
max bllnxl, unm exm xoxkr ftg tfhgz nl pxbza abl phkwl tgw abl wxxwl. Maxkx
bl t latki wbyyxkxgvx uxmpxxg atkfyne vkbmbvblf tgw vhglmknvmbox vkbmbvblf.
By px tkx mkner kxlihglbuex tl bgwbobwntel, B tf lnkx matm px pbee ux
ngbybxw tl t zhoxkgfxgm.

Exm nl dxxi hnk xrxl hg max bllnxl tgw phkd yhk max mabgzl px tee uxebxox
bg.

Exm xtva hy nl inm hnk vhngmkr taxtw hy hnk itkmr, tgw taxtw hy hnk hpg
ixklhgte bgmxkxlml.

B atw max ahghk mh ux t Fxfuxk hy max Lxgtmx wnkbgz Phkew Ptk BB, tgw B
dghp ykhf xqixkbxgvx matm ngbmr hy inkihlx tgw hy xyyhkm bl ihllbuex bg max
Vhgzkxll pbmahnm tgr exllxgbgz hy max obmtebmr hy hnk mph-itkmr lrlmxf.

Exm nl tee lmtgw mhzxmaxk tl Tfxkbvtgl. Exm nl lmtgw mhzxmaxk pbma tee fxg
xoxkrpaxkx pah uxebxox bg anftg ebuxkmr.

Ixtvx bl ikxvbhnl mh nl. Bm bl max ptr hy ebyx px lmkbox yhk pbma tee max
lmkxgzma tgw pblwhf px ihllxll. Unm fhkx ikxvbhnl matg ixtvx tkx ykxxwhf
tgw cnlmbvx. Px pbee ybzam, by ybzam px fnlm, mh dxxi hnk ykxxwhf tgw mh
ikxoxgm cnlmbvx ykhf uxbgz wxlmkhrxw.

Maxlx tkx max mabgzl matm zbox fxtgbgz mh hnk eboxl, tgw pabva px
tvdghpexwzx mh ux zkxtmxk matg hnklxeoxl.

Mabl bl hnk vtnlx--ixtvx, ykxxwhf, cnlmbvx. Px pbee inklnx mabl vtnlx pbma
wxmxkfbgtmbhg tgw anfbebmr, tldbgz wbobgx znbwtgvx matm bg tee px wh px ftr
yheehp max pbee hy Zhw.