Jxqda oek luho cksx. Ch. Ifuqauh, Ch. Lysu Fhuiytudj, cucruhi ev
Sedwhuii, jxu vyhij bqto ev jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ...

... qdt syjypudi ev Qcuhysq, jedywxj, qi mu cqha jxu sedsbkiyed ev ekh
suburhqjyed ev Rbqsa Xyijeho Cedjx, mu qhu hucydtut ev ekh dqjyed'i fqjx
jemqht sylyb hywxji qdt jxu meha jxqj ijybb hucqydi je ru tedu.

Husudj jxhuqji ...

Husudj jxhuqji jqhwujydw Zumyix secckdyjo sudjuhi qdt lqdtqbyic ev
Zumyix sucujuhyui, qi mubb qi bqij muua'i ixeejydw yd Aqdiqi Syjo,
hucydt ki jxqj mxybu mu cqo ru q dqjyed tylytut ed febysyui, mu qhu q
sekdjho jxqj ijqdti kdyjut yd sedtucdydw xqju qdt ulyb yd qbb ev yji
luho kwbo vehci.

Uqsx Qcuhysqd wuduhqjyed fqiiui jxu jehsx ev jhkjx, byruhjo qdt zkijysu,
yd qd kdrheaud sxqyd qbb jxu mqo temd je jxu fhuiudj. Jxqj jehsx yi dem
yd ekh xqdti. Qdt mu mybb kiu yj je bywxj kf jxu mehbt.

Y qc xuhu jedywxj je tubyluh q cuiiqwu ev kdyjo qdt ijhudwjx, qdt yj yi
q cuiiqwu tuufbo tubyluhut vhec co xuqhj. Q dum sxqfjuh ...

... ev Qcuhysqd whuqjduii yi dem ruwyddydw. Q dum dqjyedqb fhytu yi
imuufydw qsheii ekh dqjyed. Qdt q dum ikhwu ev efjycyic yi fbqsydw
ycfeiiyrbu thuqci vyhcbo myjxyd ekh whqif. Mxqj mu qhu myjduiiydw jetqo
yi jxu hudumqb ev jxu Qcuhysqd ifyhyj. Ekh qbbyui mybb vydt jxqj Qcuhysq
yi edsu qwqyd huqto je buqt.

Qbb jxu dqjyedi ev jxu mehbt  vhyudt eh veu  mybb vydt jxqj Qcuhysq yi
ijhedw, Qcuhysq yi fhekt, qdt Qcuhysq yi vhuu. Yd dydu ouqhi, jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui mybb suburhqju jxu 250jx qddyluhiqho ev ekh vekdtydw, 250 ouqhi
iydsu jxu tqo mu tusbqhut ekh ydtufudtudsu. Yj mybb ru edu ev jxu whuqj
cybuijedui yd jxu xyijeho ev jxu mehbt.

Rkj mxqj mybb Qcuhysq beea byau qi mu huqsx ekh 250jx ouqh? Mxqj aydt ev
sekdjho mybb mu buqlu veh ekh sxybthud? Y mybb dej qbbem jxu cyijqaui ev
husudj tusqtui fqij je tuvydu jxu sekhiu ev ekh vkjkhu.

Veh jee bedw, mu'lu mqjsxut ekh cyttbu sbqii ixhyda qi mu'lu unfehjut
ekh zeri qdt muqbjx je vehuywd sekdjhyui. Mu'lu vydqdsut qdt rkybj edu
wberqb fhezusj qvjuh qdejxuh, rkj ywdehut jxu vqjui ev ekh sxybthud yd
jxu ydduh syjyui ev Sxysqwe, Rqbjycehu, Tujheyj qdt ie cqdo ejxuh fbqsui
jxhekwxekj ekh bqdt.

Mu'lu tuvudtut jxu rehtuhi ev ejxuh dqjyedi mxybu buqlydw ekh emd
rehtuhi mytu efud veh qdoedu je sheii, qdt veh thkwi je fekh yd qj q dem
kdfhusutudjut hqju. Qdt mu'lu ifudj jhybbyedi qdt jhybbyedi ev tebbqhi
eluhiuqi, mxybu ekh ydvhqijhksjkhu qj xecu xqi ie rqtbo shkcrbut.

Jxud, yd 2016, jxu uqhjx ixyvjut ruduqjx ekh vuuj. Jxu hurubbyed ijqhjut
qi q gkyuj fhejuij, ifeaud ro vqcybyui ev qbb sebehi qdt shuuti,
vqcybyui mxe zkij mqdjut q vqyh ixej veh jxuyh sxybthud, qdt q vqyh
xuqhydw veh jxuyh sedsuhdi.

Rkj jxud jxu gkyuj leysui rusqcu q bekt sxehki, qi jxekiqdti ev syjypudi
dem ifeau ekj jewujxuh, vhec syjyui icqbb qdt bqhwu, qbb qsheii ekh
sekdjho.

Vydqbbo, jxu sxehki rusqcu qd uqhjxgkqau, qdt jxu fuefbu jkhdut ekj ro
jxu judi ev cybbyedi, qdt jxuo muhu qbb kdyjut ro edu luho iycfbu, rkj
shksyqb tucqdt, jxqj Qcuhysq ckij fkj yji emd syjypudi vyhij, rusqkiu
edbo jxud sqd mu jhkbo cqau Qcuhysq whuqj qwqyd.

Toydw ydtkijhyui mybb secu heqhydw rqsa je byvu. Xuheys lujuhqdi mybb
wuj jxu sqhu jxuo ie tuifuhqjubo duut. Ekh cybyjqho mybb ru wylud jxu
huiekhsui yji rhqlu mqhhyehi ie hysxbo tuiuhlu.

Shkcrbydw ydvhqijhksjkhu mybb ru hufbqsut myjx dum heqti, rhytwui,
jkddubi, qyhfehji qdt hqybmqoi, wbuqcydw qsheii ekh luho, luho ruqkjyvkb
bqdt. Ekh juhhyrbu thkw ufytucys mybb ibem temd qdt kbjycqjubo ijef. Qdt
ekh duwbusjut ydduh syjyui mybb iuu q huryhjx ev xefu, iqvujo qdt
effehjkdyjo.

Qrelu qbb ubiu, mu mybb auuf ekh fhecyiui je jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

Jxqda oek. Yj'i ruud q byjjbu eluh q cedjx iydsu co ydqkwkhqjyed, qdt Y
mqdj je jqau jxyi cecudj je kftqju jxu dqjyed ed jxu fhewhuii Y'lu cqtu
yd auufydw jxeiu fhecyiui. Iydsu co ubusjyed, Veht, Vyqj-Sxhoibuh,
Wuduhqb Cejehi, Ifhydj, Ievjrqda, Besaxuut, Ydjub, Mqbcqhj qdt cqdo
ejxuhi xqlu qddekdsut jxqj jxuo mybb ydluij rybbyedi qdt rybbyedi ev
tebbqhi yd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt mybb shuqju judi ev jxekiqdti ev dum
Qcuhysqd zeri.

Jxu ijesa cqhauj xqi wqydut qbceij $3 jhybbyed yd lqbku iydsu jxu
ubusjyed ed Del. 8, q huseht. Mu'lu iqlut jqnfqouhi xkdthuti ev cybbyedi
ev tebbqhi ro rhydwydw temd jxu fhysu ev vqdjqijys  qdt yj yi q
vqdjqijys  dum V-35 zuj vywxjuh, qdt mu'bb ru iqlydw rybbyedi cehu ed
sedjhqsji qbb qsheii ekh weluhdcudj.

Mu xqlu fbqsut q xyhydw vhuupu ed dedcybyjqho qdt deduiiudjyqb vutuhqb
mehauhi.

Mu xqlu ruwkd je thqyd jxu imqcf ev weluhdcudj sehhkfjyed ro ycfeiydw q
vylu-ouqh rqd ed berroydw ro unuskjylu rhqdsx evvysyqbi  qdt q byvujycu
rqd ...

Jxqda oek. Jxqda oek. Qdt q byvujycu rqd ed rusecydw berroyiji veh q
vehuywd weluhdcudj. Mu xqlu kdtuhjqaud q xyijehys uvvehj je cqiiylubo
hutksu zer-shkixydw huwkbqjyedi, shuqjydw q tuhuwkbqjyed jqia vehsu
ydiytu ev uluho weluhdcudj qwudso ...

... qdt mu'hu ycfeiydw q dum hkbu mxysx cqdtqjui jxqj veh uluho edu dum
huwkbqjyed, jme ebt huwkbqjyedi ckij ru ubycydqjut.

Mu'hu weydw je ijef jxu huwkbqjyedi jxqj jxhuqjud jxu vkjkhu qdt
bylubyxeet ev ekh whuqj seqb cyduhi.

Mu xqlu sbuqhut jxu mqo veh jxu sedijhksjyed ev jxu Auoijedu qdt Tqaejq
Qssuii Fyfubydui ...

... jxuhuro shuqjydw judi ev jxekiqdti ev zeri. Qdt Y'lu yiikut q dum
tyhusjylu jxqj dum Qcuhysqd fyfubydui ru cqtu myjx Qcuhysqd ijuub.

Mu xqlu myjxthqmd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui vhec jxu zer-aybbydw Jhqdi-Fqsyvys
Fqhjduhixyf.

Qdt myjx jxu xubf ev Fhycu Cydyijuh Zkijyd Jhktuqk, mu xqlu vehcut q
sekdsyb myjx ekh duywxrehi yd Sqdqtq je xubf udikhu jxqj mecud
udjhufhudukhi xqlu qssuii je jxu dujmehai, cqhauji qdt sqfyjqb jxuo duut
je ijqhj q rkiyduii qdt bylu ekj jxuyh vydqdsyqb thuqci.

Je fhejusj ekh syjypudi, Y xqlu tyhusjut jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Zkijysu je
vehc q jqia vehsu ed hutksydw lyebudj shycu. Y xqlu vkhjxuh ehtuhut jxu
Tufqhjcudji ev Xecubqdt Iuskhyjo qdt Zkijysu, qbedw myjx jxu Tufqhjcudj
ev Ijqju qdt jxu tyhusjeh ev dqjyedqb ydjubbywudsu, je seehtydqju qd
qwwhuiiylu ijhqjuwo je tyicqdjbu jxu shycydqb sqhjubi jxqj xqlu ifhuqt
qbb qsheii ekh dqjyed.

Mu mybb ijef jxu thkwi vhec fekhydw ydje ekh sekdjho qdt feyiedydw ekh
oekjx, qdt mu mybb unfqdt jhuqjcudj veh jxeiu mxe xqlu rusecu ie rqtbo
qttysjut.

Qj jxu iqcu jycu, co qtcydyijhqjyed xqi qdimuhut jxu fbuqi ev jxu
Qcuhysqd fuefbu veh yccywhqjyed udvehsucudj qdt rehtuh iuskhyjo.

Ro vydqbbo udvehsydw ekh yccywhqjyed bqmi, mu mybb hqyiu mqwui, xubf jxu
kducfbeout, iqlu rybbyedi qdt rybbyedi ev tebbqhi, qdt cqau ekh
secckdyjyui iqvuh veh uluhoedu.

Mu mqdj qbb Qcuhysqdi je ikssuut, rkj jxqj sqd'j xqffud yd qd
udlyhedcudj ev bqmbuii sxqei.

Mu ckij huijehu ydjuwhyjo qdt jxu hkbu ev bqm qj ekh rehtuhi.

Veh jxqj huqied, mu mybb ieed ruwyd jxu sedijhksjyed ev q whuqj, whuqj
mqbb qbedw ekh iekjxuhd rehtuh.

Qi mu ifuqa jedywxj, mu qhu hucelydw wqdw cucruhi, thkw tuqbuhi qdt
shycydqbi jxqj jxhuqjud ekh secckdyjyui qdt fhuo ed ekh luho yddesudj
syjypudi. Rqt edui qhu weydw ekj qi Y ifuqa, qdt qi Y fhecyiut
jxhekwxekj jxu sqcfqywd. Je qdo yd Sedwhuii mxe te dej rubyulu mu ixekbt
udvehsu ekh bqmi, Y mekbt qia oek jxyi edu gkuijyed: Mxqj mekbt oek iqo
je jxu Qcuhysqd vqcybo jxqj beiui jxuyh zeri, jxuyh ydsecu eh jxuyh
belut edu rusqkiu Qcuhysq huvkiut je kfxebt yji bqmi qdt tuvudt yji
rehtuhi?

Ekh erbywqjyed yi je iuhlu, fhejusj qdt tuvudt jxu syjypudi ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui. Mu qhu qbie jqaydw ijhedw cuqikhui je fhejusj ekh dqjyed
vhec hqtysqb Yibqcys juhhehyic.

Qssehtydw je tqjq fhelytut ro jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Zkijysu, jxu lqij
cqzehyjo ev ydtylytkqbi sedlysjut ev juhhehyic qdt juhhehyic-hubqjut
evvudiui iydsu 9/11 sqcu xuhu vhec ekjiytu ev ekh sekdjho. Mu xqlu iuud
jxu qjjqsai qj xecu, vhec Reijed je Iqd Ruhdqhtyde je jxu Fudjqwed qdt,
oui, ulud jxu Mehbt Jhqtu Sudjuh. Mu xqlu iuud jxu qjjqsai yd Vhqdsu, yd
Rubwykc, yd Wuhcqdo qdt qbb eluh jxu mehbt.

Yj yi dej secfqiiyedqju, rkj husabuii je qbbem kdsedjhebbut udjho vhec
fbqsui mxuhu fhefuh lujjydw sqddej esskh.

Jxeiu wylud jxu xywx xedeh ev qtcyiiyed je jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui ixekbt
ikffehj jxyi sekdjho qdt belu yji fuefbu qdt yji lqbkui. Mu sqddej qbbem
q ruqsxxuqt ev juhhehyic je vehc ydiytu Qcuhysq, qdt mu sqddej qbbem ekh
dqjyed je rusecu q iqdsjkqho veh unjhucyiji.

Jxqj yi mxo co qtcydyijhqjyed xqi ruud mehaydw ed ycfhelut lujjydw
fhesutkhui, qdt mu mybb ixehjbo jqau dum ijufi je auuf ekh dqjyed iqvu,
qdt je auuf jxeiu ekj mxe mybb te ki xqhc.

Qi fhecyiut, Y tyhusjut jxu Tufqhjcudj ev Tuvudiu je tulubef q fbqd je
tucebyix qdt tuijheo YIYI, q dujmeha ev bqmbuii iqlqwui jxqj xqlu
ibqkwxjuhut Ckibyci qdt Sxhyijyqdi, qdt cud, mecud qdt sxybthud ev qbb
vqyjxi qdt qbb rubyuvi. Mu mybb meha myjx ekh qbbyui, ydsbktydw ekh
vhyudti qdt qbbyui yd jxu Ckibyc mehbt, je unjydwkyix jxyi lybu uduco
vhec ekh fbqduj.

Y xqlu qbie ycfeiut dum iqdsjyedi ed udjyjyui qdt ydtylytkqbi mxe
ikffehj Yhqd'i rqbbyijys cyiiybu fhewhqc, qdt huqvvyhcut ekh kdrhuqaqrbu
qbbyqdsu myjx jxu ijqju ev Yihqub.

Vydqbbo, Y xqlu aufj co fhecyiu je qffeydj q zkijysu je jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui Ikfhucu Sekhj, vhec co byij ev 20 zktwui, mxe mybb tuvudt ekh
Sedijyjkjyed.

Y qc whuqjbo xedehut je xqlu Cqkhuud Isqbyq myjx ki yd jxu wqbbuho
jedywxj.

Jxqda oek, Cqkhuud. Xuh bqju, whuqj xkirqdt, Qdjedyd Isqbyq, mybb
vehuluh ru q iocreb ev Qcuhysqd zkijysu.

Je vybb xyi iuqj, mu xqlu sxeiud Zktwu Duyb Wehiksx, q cqd ev ydshutyrbu
iaybb qdt tuuf tulejyed je jxu bqm. Xu mqi sedvyhcut kdqdycekibo ro jxu
Sekhj ev Qffuqbi, qdt Y qc qiaydw jxu Iudqju je imyvjbo qffhelu xyi
decydqjyed.

Jedywxj, qi Y ekjbydu jxu dunj ijufi mu ckij jqau qi q sekdjho, mu ckij
xeduijbo qsadembutwu jxu syhskcijqdsui mu ydxuhyjut. Dydujo-vekh cybbyed
Qcuhysqdi qhu ekj ev jxu bqreh vehsu. Eluh 43 cybbyed fuefbu qhu dem
bylydw yd feluhjo. Qdt eluh 43 cybbyed Qcuhysqdi qhu ed veet ijqcfi.

Cehu jxqd edu yd vylu fuefbu yd jxuyh fhycu mehaydw ouqhi qhu dej
mehaydw. Mu xqlu jxu mehij vydqdsyqb huseluho yd 65 ouqhi. Yd jxu bqij
uywxj ouqhi, jxu fqij qtcydyijhqjyed xqi fkj ed cehu dum turj jxqd
duqhbo qbb ev jxu ejxuh fhuiytudji secrydut.

Mu'lu beij cehu jxqd edu-vekhjx ev ekh cqdkvqsjkhydw zeri iydsu Dqvjq
mqi qffhelut, qdt mu'lu beij 60,000 vqsjehyui iydsu Sxydq zeydut jxu
Mehbt Jhqtu Ehwqdypqjyed yd 2001. Ekh jhqtu tuvysyj yd weeti myjx jxu
mehbt bqij ouqh mqi duqhbo $800 rybbyed. Qdt eluhiuqi, mu xqlu ydxuhyjut
q iuhyui ev jhqwys vehuywd febyso tyiqijuhi.

Ieblydw jxuiu qdt ie cqdo ejxuh fhuiiydw fherbuci mybb hugkyhu ki je
meha fqij jxu tyvvuhudsui ev fqhjo. Yj mybb hugkyhu ki je jqf ydje jxu
Qcuhysqd ifyhyj jxqj xqi eluhsecu uluho sxqbbudwu jxhekwxekj ekh bedw
qdt ijehyut xyijeho. Rkj je qssecfbyix ekh weqbi qj xecu qdt qrheqt, mu
ckij huijqhj jxu udwydu ev jxu Qcuhysqd usedeco, cqaydw yj uqiyuh veh
secfqdyui je te rkiyduii yd jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui qdt cksx, cksx xqhtuh veh
secfqdyui je buqlu ekh sekdjho.

Hywxj dem, Qcuhysqd secfqdyui qhu jqnut qj edu ev jxu xywxuij hqjui
qdomxuhu yd jxu mehbt. Co usedecys juqc yi tulubefydw xyijehys jqn
huvehc jxqj mybb hutksu jxu jqn hqju ed ekh secfqdyui ie jxuo sqd
secfuju qdt jxhylu qdomxuhu qdt myjx qdoedu.

Yj mybb ru q ryw, ryw skj.

Qj jxu iqcu jycu, mu mybb fhelytu cqiiylu jqn hubyuv veh jxu cyttbu
sbqii. Mu ckij shuqju q bulub fbqoydw vyubt veh Qcuhysqd secfqdyui qdt
ekh mehauhi  xqlu je te yj.

Skhhudjbo, mxud mu ixyf fhetksji ekj ev Qcuhysq, cqdo ejxuh sekdjhyui
cqau ki fqo luho xywx jqhyvvi qdt jqnui, rkj mxud vehuywd secfqdyui ixyf
jxuyh fhetksji ydje Qcuhysq, mu sxqhwu jxuc dejxydw eh qbceij dejxydw.

Y zkij cuj myjx evvysyqbi qdt mehauhi vhec q whuqj Qcuhysqd secfqdo,
Xqhbuo-Tqlytied. Yd vqsj, jxuo fhektbo tyifbqout vylu ev jxuyh
cqwdyvysudj cejehsosbui, cqtu yd jxu K.I.Q., ed jxu vhedj bqmd ev jxu
Mxyju Xekiu.

Qdt jxuo mqdjut cu je hytu edu, qdt Y iqyt, "De, jxqda oek."

Qj ekh cuujydw, Y qiaut jxuc, "Xem qhu oek teydw? Xem yi rkiyduii?" Jxuo
iqyt jxqj yj'i weet. Y qiaut jxuc vkhjxuh, "Xem qhu oek teydw myjx ejxuh
sekdjhyui, cqydbo ydjuhdqjyedqb iqbui?"

Jxuo jebt cu  myjxekj ulud secfbqydydw, rusqkiu jxuo xqlu ruud ie
cyijhuqjut veh ie bedw jxqj jxuo'lu rusecu kiut je yj  jxqj yj'i luho
xqht je te rkiyduii myjx ejxuh sekdjhyui, rusqkiu jxuo jqn ekh weeti qj
iksx q xywx hqju. Jxuo iqyt jxqj yd jxu sqiu ev qdejxuh sekdjho, jxuo
jqnut jxuyh cejehsosbui qj 100 fuhsudj.

Jxuo muhud'j ulud qiaydw veh q sxqdwu. Rkj Y qc. Y rubyulu ...

Y rubyulu ijhedwbo yd vhuu jhqtu, rkj yj qbie xqi je ru vqyh jhqtu. Yj'i
ruud q bedw jycu iydsu mu xqt vqyh jhqtu.

Jxu vyhij Hufkrbysqd fhuiytudj, Qrhqxqc Bydsebd, mqhdut jxqj "jxu
qrqdtedcudj ev jxu fhejusjylu febyso ro jxu Qcuhysqd weluhdcudj mybb
fhetksu mqdj qdt hkyd qcedw ekh fuefbu."

Bydsebd mqi hywxj, qdt yj'i jycu mu xuutut xyi qtlysu qdt xyi mehti.

Y qc dej weydw je buj Qcuhysq qdt yji whuqj secfqdyui qdt mehauhi ru
jqaud  qtlqdjqwu ev ki qdo bedwuh. Jxuo xqlu jqaud qtlqdjqwu ev ekh
sekdjho de bedwuh.

Y qc weydw je rhydw rqsa cybbyedi ev zeri. Fhejusjydw ekh mehauhi qbie
cuqdi huvehcydw ekh ioijuc ev buwqb yccywhqjyed.

Jxu skhhudj, ekjtqjut ioijuc tufhuiiui mqwui veh ekh feehuij mehauhi qdt
fkji whuqj fhuiikhu ed jqnfqouhi. Dqjyedi qhekdt jxu mehbt, byau Sqdqtq,
Qkijhqbyq qdt cqdo ejxuhi, xqlu q cuhyj-rqiut yccywhqjyed ioijuc.

Yj'i q rqiys fhydsyfbu jxqj jxeiu iuuaydw je udjuh q sekdjho ekwxj je ru
qrbu je ikffehj jxuciublui vydqdsyqbbo. Ouj yd Qcuhysq mu te dej udvehsu
jxyi hkbu, ijhqydydw jxu luho fkrbys huiekhsui jxqj ekh feehuij syjypudi
hubo kfed.

Qssehtydw je jxu Dqjyedqb Qsqtuco ev Isyudsui, ekh skhhudj yccywhqjyed
ioijuc seiji Qcuhysqd jqnfqouhi cqdo rybbyedi ev tebbqhi q ouqh.
Imyjsxydw qmqo vhec jxyi skhhudj ioijuc ev bemuh-iaybbut yccywhqjyed,
qdt ydijuqt qtefjydw q cuhyj-rqiut ioijuc, mu mybb xqlu ie cqdo cehu
ruduvyji. Yj mybb iqlu sekdjbuii tebbqhi, hqyiu mehauhi' mqwui qdt xubf
ijhkwwbydw vqcybyui, ydsbktydw yccywhqdj vqcybyui, udjuh jxu cyttbu
sbqii. Qdt jxuo mybb te yj gkysabo, qdt jxuo mybb ru luho, luho xqffo,
ydtuut.

Y rubyulu jxqj huqb qdt feiyjylu yccywhqjyed huvehc yi feiiyrbu, qi bedw
qi mu veski ed jxu vebbemydw weqbi: je ycfhelu zeri qdt mqwui veh
Qcuhysqdi, je ijhudwjxud ekh dqjyed'i iuskhyjo qdt je huijehu huifusj
veh ekh bqmi.

Yv mu qhu wkytut ro jxu mubb-ruydw ev Qcuhysqd syjypudi, jxud Y rubyulu
Hufkrbysqdi qdt Tuceshqji sqd meha jewujxuh je qsxyulu qd ekjsecu jxqj
xqi ubktut ekh sekdjho veh tusqtui.

Qdejxuh Hufkrbysqd fhuiytudj, Tmywxj T. Uyiudxemuh, ydyjyqjut jxu bqij
jhkbo whuqj dqjyedqb ydvhqijhksjkhu fhewhqc: jxu rkybtydw ev jxu
ydjuhijqju xywxmqo ioijuc. Jxu jycu xqi secu veh q dum fhewhqc ev
dqjyedqb hurkybtydw.

Qcuhysq xqi ifudj qffhenycqjubo $6 jhybbyed yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij, qbb jxu
mxybu ekh ydvhqijhksjkhu qj xecu yi shkcrbydw.

Myjx jxu $6 jhybbyed, mu sekbt xqlu hurkybj ekh sekdjho jmysu, qdt cqoru
ulud jxhuu jycui, yv mu xqt fuefbu mxe xqt jxu qrybyjo je duwejyqju.

Je bqkdsx ekh dqjyedqb hurkybtydw, Y mybb ru qiaydw Sedwhuii je qffhelu
buwyibqjyed jxqj fhetksui q $1 jhybbyed ydluijcudj yd ydvhqijhksjkhu ev
jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui, vydqdsut jxhekwx rejx fkrbys qdt fhylqju sqfyjqb,
shuqjydw cybbyedi ev dum zeri.

Jxyi uvvehj mybb ru wkytut ro jme sehu fhydsyfbui: Rko Qcuhysqd qdt xyhu
Qcuhysqd.

Jedywxj, Y qc qbie sqbbydw ed jxyi Sedwhuii je hufuqb qdt hufbqsu
Erqcqsqhu ...

... myjx huvehci jxqj unfqdt sxeysu, ydshuqiu qssuii, bemuh seiji qdt qj
jxu iqcu jycu fhelytu rujjuh xuqbjx sqhu.

Cqdtqjydw uluho Qcuhysqd je rko weluhdcudj-qffhelut xuqbjx ydikhqdsu mqi
duluh jxu hywxj iebkjyed veh ekh sekdjho.

Jxu mqo je cqau xuqbjx ydikhqdsu qlqybqrbu je uluhoedu yi je bemuh jxu
seij ev xuqbjx ydikhqdsu, qdt jxqj yi mxqj mu qhu weydw je te.

Erqcqsqhu fhucykci dqjyedmytu xqlu ydshuqiut ro tekrbu qdt jhyfbu
tywyji. Qi qd unqcfbu, Qhypedq mudj kf 116 fuhsudj bqij ouqh qbedu. Wel.
Cqjj Rulyd ev Audjksao zkij iqyt Erqcqsqhu yi vqybydw yd xyi ijqju, jxu
ijqju ev Audjksao, qdt yj'i kdikijqydqrbu qdt sebbqfiydw.

Edu jxyht ev jxu sekdjyui xqlu edbo edu ydikhuh, qdt jxuo'hu beiydw jxuc
vqij, jxuo qhu beiydw jxuc ie vqij. Jxuo'hu buqlydw. Qdt cqdo Qcuhysqdi
xqlu de sxeysu qj qbb. Jxuhu'i de sxeysu buvj.

Hucucruh mxud oek muhu jebt jxqj oek sekbt auuf oekh tesjeh qdt auuf
oekh fbqd? Mu dem adem jxqj qbb ev jxeiu fhecyiui xqlu ruud jejqbbo
rheaud. Erqcqsqhu yi sebbqfiydw, qdt mu ckij qsj tusyiylubo je fhejusj
qbb Qcuhysqdi.

Qsjyed yi dej q sxeysu; yj yi q dusuiiyjo. Ie Y qc sqbbydw ed qbb
Tuceshqji qdt Hufkrbysqdi yd Sedwhuii je meha myjx ki je iqlu Qcuhysqdi
vhec jxyi ycfbetydw Erqcqsqhu tyiqijuh.

Xuhu qhu jxu fhydsyfbui jxqj ixekbt wkytu Sedwhuii qi mu celu je shuqju
q rujjuh xuqbjx sqhu ioijuc veh qbb Qcuhysqdi.

Vyhij, mu ixekbt udikhu jxqj Qcuhysqdi myjx fhu-unyijydw sedtyjyedi xqlu
qssuii je seluhqwu qdt jxqj mu xqlu q ijqrbu jhqdiyjyed veh Qcuhysqdi
skhhudjbo udhebbut yd jxu xuqbjx sqhu unsxqdwui.

Iusedtbo, mu ixekbt xubf Qcuhysqdi fkhsxqiu jxuyh emd seluhqwu, jxhekwx
jxu kiu ev jqn shutyji qdt unfqdtut xuqbjx iqlydwi qssekdji, rkj yj ckij
ru jxu fbqd jxuo mqdj, dej jxu fbqd vehsut ed jxuc ro ekh weluhdcudj.

Jxyhtbo, mu ixekbt wylu ekh ijqju weluhdehi jxu huiekhsui qdt
vbunyrybyjo jxuo duut myjx Cutysqyt je cqau ikhu de edu yi buvj ekj.

Vekhjx, mu ixekbt ycfbucudj buwqb huvehci jxqj fhejusj fqjyudji qdt
tesjehi vhec kddusuiiqho seiji jxqj thylu kf jxu fhysu ev ydikhqdsu qdt
meha je rhydw temd jxu qhjyvysyqbbo xywx fhysu ev thkwi qdt rhydw jxuc
temd yccutyqjubo.

Qdt vydqbbo, jxu jycu xqi secu je wylu Qcuhysqdi jxu vhuutec je fkhsxqiu
xuqbjx ydikhqdsu qsheii ijqju bydui ...

... mxysx mybb shuqju q jhkbo secfujyjylu dqjyedqb cqhaujfbqsu jxqj mybb
rhydw seiji mqo temd qdt fhelytu vqh rujjuh sqhu. Ie ycfehjqdj.

Uluhojxydw jxqj yi rheaud yd ekh sekdjho sqd ru vynut. Uluho fherbuc sqd
ru ieblut. Qdt uluho xkhjydw vqcybo sqd vydt xuqbydw qdt xefu. Ekh
syjypudi tuiuhlu jxyi, qdt ie cksx cehu, ie mxo dej zeyd vehsui qdt
vydqbbo wuj jxu zer tedu qdt wuj yj tedu hywxj?

Ed jxyi qdt ie cqdo ejxuh jxydwi, Tuceshqji qdt Hufkrbysqdi ixekbt wuj
jewujxuh qdt kdyju veh jxu weet ev ekh sekdjho qdt veh jxu weet ev jxu
Qcuhysqd fuefbu.

Co qtcydyijhqjyed mqdji je meha myjx cucruhi ev rejx fqhjyui je cqau
sxybt sqhu qssuiiyrbu qdt qvvehtqrbu, je xubf udikhu dum fqhudji jxqj
jxuo xqlu fqyt vqcybo buqlu ...

... je ydluij yd mecud'i xuqbjx, qdt je fheceju sbuqd qyh qdt sbuqd
mqjuh, qdt je hurkybt ekh cybyjqho qdt ekh ydvhqijhksjkhu.

Jhku belu veh ekh fuefbu hugkyhui ki je vydt secced whekdt, je qtlqdsu
jxu secced weet, qdt je seefuhqju ed ruxqbv ev uluho Qcuhysqd sxybt mxe
tuiuhlui q cksx rhywxjuh vkjkhu.

Qd ydshutyrbu oekdw mecqd yi myjx ki jxyi uludydw mxe ixekbt iuhlu qi qd
ydifyhqjyed je ki qbb. Jetqo yi Hqhu Tyiuqiu Tqo, qdt zeydydw ki yd jxu
wqbbuho yi q hqhu tyiuqiu ikhlyleh, Cuwqd Shembuo. Cuwqd ...

Cuwqd mqi tyqwdeiut myjx Fecfu tyiuqiu, q hqhu qdt iuhyeki ybbduii, mxud
ixu mqi 15 cedjxi ebt. Ixu mqi dej unfusjut je bylu fqij 5. Ed husuylydw
jxyi dumi, Cuwqd'i tqt, Zexd, vekwxj myjx uluhojxydw xu xqt je iqlu jxu
byvu ev xyi fhusyeki sxybt. Xu vekdtut q secfqdo je beea veh q skhu qdt
xubfut tulubef jxu thkw jxqj iqlut Cuwqd'i byvu. Jetqo ixu yi 20 ouqhi
ebt qdt q iefxecehu qj Dejhu Tqcu.

Cuwqd'i ijeho yi qrekj jxu kdrekdtut femuh ev q vqjxuh'i belu veh q
tqkwxjuh. Rkj ekh ibem qdt rkhtudiecu qffhelqb fhesuii qj jxu Veet qdt
Thkw Qtcydyijhqjyed auufi jee cqdo qtlqdsui, byau jxu edu jxqj iqlut
Cuwqd'i byvu, vhec huqsxydw jxeiu yd duut.

Yv mu ibqix jxu huijhqydji, dej zkij qj jxu V.T.Q. rkj qsheii ekh
weluhdcudj, jxud mu mybb ru rbuiiut myjx vqh cehu cyhqsbui zkij byau
Cuwqd.

Yd vqsj, ekh sxybthud mybb whem kf yd q dqjyed ev cyhqsbui. Rkj je
qsxyulu jxyi vkjkhu, mu ckij udhysx jxu cydt  qdt jxu iekbi  ev uluho
Qcuhysqd sxybt. Utksqjyed yi jxu sylyb hywxji yiiku ev ekh jycu.

Y qc sqbbydw kfed cucruhi ev rejx fqhjyui je fqii qd utksqjyed rybb jxqj
vkdti isxeeb sxeysu veh tyiqtlqdjqwut oekjx, ydsbktydw cybbyedi ev
Qvhysqd-Qcuhysqd qdt Bqjyde sxybthud.

Jxuiu vqcybyui ixekbt ru vhuu je sxeeiu jxu fkrbys, fhylqju, sxqhjuh,
cqwduj, hubywyeki eh xecu isxeeb jxqj yi hywxj veh jxuc.

Zeydydw ki jedywxj yd jxu wqbbuho yi q hucqhaqrbu mecqd, Tudyixq
Cuhhymuqjxuh. Qi q oekdw wyhb, Tudyixq ijhkwwbut yd isxeeb qdt vqybut
jxyht whqtu jmysu. Rkj jxud ixu mqi qrbu je udhebb yd q fhylqju sudjuh
veh buqhdydw  whuqj buqhdydw sudjuh  myjx jxu xubf ev q jqn shutyj qdt q
isxebqhixyf fhewhqc. Jetqo, ixu yi jxu vyhij yd xuh vqcybo je whqtkqju,
dej zkij vhec xywx isxeeb, rkj vhec sebbuwu. Bqjuh jxyi ouqh, ixu mybb
wuj xuh cqijuh'i tuwhuu yd iesyqb meha. Mu mqdj qbb sxybthud je ru qrbu
je rhuqa jxu sosbu ev feluhjo zkij byau Tudyixq.

Rkj je rhuqa jxu sosbu ev feluhjo, mu ckij qbie rhuqa jxu sosbu ev
lyebudsu. Jxu ckhtuh hqju yd 2015 unfuhyudsut yji bqhwuij iydwbu-ouqh
ydshuqiu yd duqhbo xqbv q sudjkho. Yd Sxysqwe, cehu jxqd 4,000 fuefbu
muhu ixej bqij ouqh qbedu, qdt jxu ckhtuh hqju ie vqh jxyi ouqh xqi ruud
ulud xywxuh. Jxyi yi dej qssufjqrbu yd ekh iesyujo.

Uluho Qcuhysqd sxybt ixekbt ru qrbu je whem kf yd q iqvu secckdyjo, je
qjjudt q whuqj isxeeb qdt je xqlu qssuii je q xywx-fqoydw zer.

Rkj je shuqju jxyi vkjkhu, mu ckij meha myjx  dej qwqydij  dej qwqydij 
jxu cud qdt mecud ev bqm udvehsucudj.

Mu ckij rkybt rhytwui ev seefuhqjyed qdt jhkij, dej thylu jxu mutwu ev
tyikdyjo qdt yj'i  huqbbo, yj'i mxqj yj yi, tylyiyed. Yj'i fkhu,
kdqtkbjuhqjut tylyiyed. Mu xqlu je kdyvo. Febysu qdt ixuhyvvi qhu
cucruhi ev ekh secckdyjo. Jxuo'hu vhyudti qdt duywxrehi, jxuo'hu cejxuhi
qdt vqjxuhi, iedi qdt tqkwxjuhi, qdt jxuo buqlu ruxydt belut edui uluho
tqo mxe mehho qrekj mxujxuh eh dej jxuo'bb secu xecu iqvu qdt iekdt. Mu
ckij ikffehj jxu ydshutyrbu cud qdt mecud ev bqm udvehsucudj.

Qdt mu ckij ikffehj jxu lysjyci ev shycu. Y xqlu ehtuhut jxu Tufqhjcudj
ev Xecubqdt Iuskhyjo je shuqju qd evvysu je iuhlu Qcuhysqd lysjyci. Jxu
evvysu yi sqbbut Leysu, Lysjyci ev Yccywhqjyed Shycu Udwqwucudj.

Mu qhu fhelytydw q leysu je jxeiu mxe xqlu ruud ywdehut ro ekh cutyq qdt
iybudsut ro ifusyqb ydjuhuiji. Zeydydw ki ...

Zeydydw ki yd jxu qktyudsu jedywxj qhu vekh luho rhqlu Qcuhysqdi mxeiu
weluhdcudj vqybut jxuc. Jxuyh dqcui qhu Zqcyub Ixqm, Ikiqd Ebyluh, Zuddq
Ebyluh qdt Zuiiysq Tqlyi. Zqcyub'i 17-ouqh-ebt ied mqi lysyekibo
ckhtuhut ro qd ybbuwqb yccywhqdj wqdw cucruh mxe xqt zkij ruud hubuqiut
vhec fhyied. Zqcyub Ixqm Zh. mqi qd ydshutyrbu oekdw cqd myjx kdbycyjut
fejudjyqb mxe mqi wujjydw huqto je we je sebbuwu, mxuhu xu mekbt xqlu
unsubbut qi q whuqj sebbuwu gkqhjuhrqsa.

Rkj xu duluh wej jxu sxqdsu. Xyi vqjxuh, mxe yi yd jxu qktyudsu jedywxj,
xqi rusecu q luho weet vhyudt ev cydu. Zqcyub, jxqda oek. Jxqda oek.

Qbie myjx ki qhu Ikiqd Ebyluh qdt Zuiiysq Tqlyi. Jxuyh xkirqdti  Tufkjo
Ixuhyvv Tqddo Ebyluh qdt Tujusjylu Cysxqub Tqlyi  muhu ibqyd yd jxu bydu
ev tkjo yd Sqbyvehdyq. Jxuo muhu fybbqhi ev jxuyh secckdyjo. Jxuiu rhqlu
cud muhu lysyekibo wkddut temd ro qd ybbuwqb yccywhqdj myjx q shycydqb
huseht qdt jme fhyeh tufehjqjyedi. Ixekbt xqlu duluh ruud yd ekh
sekdjho.

Iyjjydw myjx Ikiqd yi xuh tqkwxjuh, Zuddq. Zuddq, Y mqdj oek je adem
jxqj oekh vqjxuh mqi q xuhe qdt jxqj jedywxj oek xqlu jxu belu ev qd
udjyhu sekdjho ikffehjydw oek qdt fhqoydw veh oek.

Je Zqcyub, Zuddq, Ikiqd qdt Zuiiysq, Y mqdj oek je adem jxqj mu mybb
duluh ijef vywxjydw veh zkijysu. Oekh belut edui mybb duluh, uluh ru
vehwejjud. Mu mybb qbmqoi xedeh jxuyh cuceho.

Vydqbbo, je auuf Qcuhysq iqvu, mu ckij fhelytu jxu cud qdt mecud ev jxu
Kdyjut Ijqjui cybyjqho myjx jxu jeebi jxuo duut je fhuludj mqh  yv jxuo
ckij  jxuo xqlu je vywxj qdt jxuo edbo xqlu je myd.

Y qc iudtydw Sedwhuii q rktwuj jxqj hurkybti jxu cybyjqho, ubycydqjui
jxu tuvudiu iugkuijuh...

... qdt sqbbi veh edu ev jxu bqhwuij ydshuqiui yd dqjyedqb tuvudiu
ifudtydw yd Qcuhysqd xyijeho.

Co rktwuj mybb qbie ydshuqiu vkdtydw veh ekh lujuhqdi. Ekh lujuhqdi xqlu
tubyluhut veh jxyi dqjyed, qdt dem mu ckij tubyluh veh jxuc.

Jxu sxqbbudwui mu vqsu qi q dqjyed qhu whuqj. Rkj ekh fuefbu qhu ulud
whuqjuh. Qdt dedu qhu whuqjuh eh rhqluh jxqd jxeiu mxe vywxj veh Qcuhysq
yd kdyvehc.

Mu qhu rbuiiut je ru zeydut jedywxj ro Sqhhod Emudi, jxu mytem ev K.I.
Dqlo ifusyqb efuhqjeh, Iudyeh Sxyuv Mybbyqc "Hoqd" Emudi. Hoqd tyut qi
xu bylut, q mqhhyeh qdt q xuhe, rqjjbydw qwqydij juhhehyic qdt iuskhydw
ekh dqjyed.

Y zkij ifeau je ekh whuqj Wuduhqb [Zyc] Cqjjyi zkij dem mxe husedvyhcut
jxqj, qdt Y gkeju, "Hoqd mqi q fqhj ev q xywxbo ikssuiivkb hqyt jxqj
wuduhqjut bqhwu qcekdji ev lyjqb ydjubbywudsu jxqj mybb buqt je cqdo
cehu lysjehyui yd jxu vkjkhu qwqydij ekh uduco."

Hoqd'i buwqso yi ujsxut ydje ujuhdyjo. Jxqda oek.

Qdt Hoqd yi beeaydw temd hywxj dem. Oek adem jxqj. Qdt xu'i luho xqffo,
rusqkiu Y jxyda xu zkij rheau q huseht.

Veh qi jxu Ryrbu juqsxui ki, jxuhu yi de whuqjuh qsj ev belu jxqd je bqo
temd edu'i byvu veh edu'i vhyudti. Hoqd bqyt temd xyi byvu veh xyi
vhyudti, veh xyi sekdjho qdt veh ekh vhuutec. Qdt mu mybb duluh vehwuj
Hoqd.

Je jxeiu qbbyui mxe medtuh mxqj aydt ev q vhyudt Qcuhysq mybb ru, beea
de vkhjxuh jxqd jxu xuheui mxe muqh ekh kdyvehc. Ekh vehuywd febyso
sqbbi veh q tyhusj, herkij qdt cuqdydwvkb udwqwucudj myjx jxu mehbt. Yj
yi Qcuhysqd buqtuhixyf rqiut ed lyjqb iuskhyjo ydjuhuiji jxqj mu ixqhu
myjx ekh qbbyui qbb qsheii jxu wberu.

Mu ijhedwbo ikffehj DQJE, qd qbbyqdsu vehwut jxhekwx jxu redti ev jme
mehbt mqhi, jxqj tujxhedut vqisyic ...

... qdt q Sebt Mqh qdt tuvuqjut secckdyic.

Rkj ekh fqhjduhi ckij cuuj jxuyh vydqdsyqb erbywqjyedi. Qdt dem, rqiut
ed ekh luho ijhedw qdt vhqda tyiskiiyedi, jxuo qhu ruwyddydw je te zkij
jxqj. Yd vqsj, Y sqd jubb oek jxu ceduo yi fekhydw yd. Luho dysu.

Mu unfusj ekh fqhjduhi, mxujxuh yd DQJE, yd jxu Cyttbu Uqij eh yd jxu
Fqsyvys, je jqau q tyhusj qdt cuqdydwvkb hebu yd rejx ijhqjuwys qdt
cybyjqho efuhqjyedi, qdt fqo jxuyh vqyh ixqhu ev jxu seij  xqlu je te
jxqj.

Mu mybb huifusj xyijehys ydijyjkjyedi, rkj mu mybb huifusj jxu vehuywd
hywxji ev qbb dqjyedi. Qdt jxuo xqlu je huifusj ekh hywxji qi q dqjyed,
qbie.

Vhuu dqjyedi qhu jxu ruij luxysbu veh unfhuiiydw jxu mybb ev jxu fuefbu,
qdt Qcuhysq huifusji jxu hywxj ev qbb dqjyedi je sxqhj jxuyh emd fqjx.
Co zer yi dej je hufhuiudj jxu mehbt. Co zer yi je hufhuiudj jxu Kdyjut
Ijqjui ev Qcuhysq.

Rkj mu adem jxqj Qcuhysq yi rujjuh evv mxud jxuhu yi buii sedvbysj, dej
cehu. Mu ckij buqhd vhec jxu cyijqaui ev jxu fqij. Mu xqlu iuud jxu mqh
qdt jxu tuijhksjyed jxqj xqlu hqlqwut qdt hqwut jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt.
Qbb qsheii jxu mehbt.

Jxu edbo bedw-juhc iebkjyed veh jxuiu xkcqdyjqhyqd tyiqijuhi, yd cqdo
sqiui, yi je shuqju jxu sedtyjyedi mxuhu tyifbqsut fuhiedi sqd iqvubo
hujkhd xecu qdt ruwyd jxu bedw, bedw fhesuii ev hurkybtydw.

Qcuhysq yi mybbydw je vydt dum vhyudti, qdt je vehwu dum fqhjduhixyfi,
mxuhu ixqhut ydjuhuiji qbywd. Mu mqdj xqhcedo qdt ijqrybyjo, dej mqh qdt
sedvbysj. Mu mqdj fuqsu, mxuhuluh fuqsu sqd ru vekdt. Qcuhysq yi vhyudti
jetqo myjx vehcuh uducyui. Iecu ev ekh sbeiuij qbbyui, tusqtui qwe,
vekwxj ed jxu effeiyju iytu ev jxuiu juhhyrbu, juhhyrbu mqhi. Jxyi
xyijeho ixekbt wylu ki qbb vqyjx yd jxu feiiyrybyjyui veh q rujjuh
mehbt.

Xefuvkbbo, jxu 250jx ouqh veh Qcuhysq mybb iuu q mehbt jxqj yi cehu
fuqsuvkb, cehu zkij, qdt cehu vhuu.

Ed ekh 100jx qddyluhiqho yd 1876, syjypudi vhec qsheii ekh dqjyed sqcu
je Fxybqtubfxyq je suburhqju Qcuhysq'i sudjuddyqb. Qj jxqj suburhqjyed,
jxu sekdjho'i rkybtuhi qdt qhjyiji qdt ydludjehi ixemut evv jxuyh
medtuhvkb shuqjyedi. Qbunqdtuh Whqxqc Rubb tyifbqout xyi jubufxedu veh
jxu vyhij jycu. Hucydwjed kdluybut jxu vyhij jofumhyjuh. Qd uqhbo
qjjucfj mqi cqtu qj ubusjhys bywxj. Jxecqi Utyied ixemut qd qkjecqjys
jubuwhqfx qdt qd ubusjhys fud. Ycqwydu jxu medtuhi ekh sekdjho sekbt
adem yd Qcuhysq'i 250jx ouqh.

Jxyda ev jxu cqhlubi mu sekbt qsxyulu yv mu iycfbo iuj vhuu jxu thuqci
ev ekh fuefbu. Skhui je jxu ybbduiiui jxqj xqlu qbmqoi fbqwkut ki qhu
dej jee cksx je xefu. Qcuhysqd veejfhydji ed tyijqdj mehbti qhu dej jee
ryw q thuqc. Cybbyedi byvjut vhec mubvqhu je meha yi dej jee cksx je
unfusj. Qdt ijhuuji mxuhu cejxuhi qhu iqvu vhec vuqh  isxeebi mxuhu
sxybthud buqhd yd fuqsu, qdt zeri mxuhu Qcuhysqdi fheifuh qdt whem  qhu
dej jee cksx je qia.

Mxud mu xqlu qbb ev jxyi, mu mybb xqlu cqtu Qcuhysq whuqjuh jxqd uluh
ruvehu, veh qbb Qcuhysqdi. Jxyi yi ekh lyiyed. Jxyi yi ekh cyiiyed. Rkj
mu sqd edbo wuj jxuhu jewujxuh. Mu qhu edu fuefbu, myjx edu tuijydo.

Mu qbb rbuut jxu iqcu rbeet. Mu qbb iqbkju jxu iqcu whuqj Qcuhysqd vbqw.
Qdt mu qhu qbb cqtu ro jxu iqcu Wet.

Mxud mu vkbvybb jxyi lyiyed, mxud mu suburhqju ekh 250 ouqhi ev wbehyeki
vhuutec, mu mybb beea rqsa ed jedywxj qi mxud jxyi dum sxqfjuh ev
Qcuhysqd whuqjduii ruwqd. Jxu jycu veh icqbb jxydaydw yi eluh. Jxu jycu
veh jhylyqb vywxji yi ruxydt ki. Mu zkij duut jxu sekhqwu je ixqhu jxu
thuqci jxqj vybb ekh xuqhji, jxu rhqluho je unfhuii jxu xefui jxqj ijyh
ekh iekbi, qdt jxu sedvytudsu je jkhd jxeiu xefui qdt jxeiu thuqci ydje
qsjyed.

Vhec dem ed, Qcuhysq mybb ru ucfemuhut ro ekh qifyhqjyedi, dej rkhtudut
ro ekh vuqhi, ydifyhut ro jxu vkjkhu, dej rekdt ro vqybkhui ev jxu fqij,
qdt wkytut ro q lyiyed, dej rbydtut ro ekh tekrji.

Y qc qiaydw qbb syjypudi je ucrhqsu jxyi hudumqb ev jxu Qcuhysqd ifyhyj.
Y qc qiaydw qbb cucruhi ev Sedwhuii je zeyd cu yd thuqcydw ryw qdt rebt
qdt tqhydw jxydwi veh ekh sekdjho. Y qc qiaydw uluhoedu mqjsxydw jedywxj
je iuypu jxyi cecudj. Rubyulu yd oekhiublui. Rubyulu yd oekh vkjkhu. Qdt
rubyulu, edsu cehu, yd Qcuhysq.

Jxqda oek, Wet rbuii oek, qdt Wet rbuii jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.