Fk. Ikxlbwxgm, Fk. Lixtdxk, tgw Fxfuxkl hy max 80ma Vhgzkxll:

Px tkx axkx mhwtr mh vhglbwxk max lmtmx hy max Ngbhg.

Hg mabl hvvtlbhg, tuhox tee hmaxkl, max Vhgzkxll tgw max Ikxlbwxgm lahnew
vhgvxgmktmx maxbk tmmxgmbhg, ghm nihg itkmr unm nihg max vhngmkr; ghm nihg
mabgzl pabva wbobwx nl unm nihg mahlx pabva ubgw nl mhzxmaxk--max xgwnkbgz
ikbgvbiexl hy hnk Tfxkbvtg lrlmxf, tgw hnk vhffhg tlibktmbhgl yhk max
ynmnkx pxeytkx tgw lxvnkbmr hy max ixhiex hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl.

Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atl uxvhfx zkxtm uxvtnlx [i.2] px, tl t ixhiex, atox uxxg
tuex mh phkd mhzxmaxk yhk zkxtm hucxvmboxl xoxg pabex wbyyxkbgz tuhnm
wxmtbel.

Max xexfxgml hy hnk lmkxgzma tkx ftgr. Maxr bgvenwx hnk wxfhvktmbv
zhoxkgfxgm, hnk xvhghfbv lrlmxf, hnk zkxtm gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl. Unm maxlx tkx
hger itkmbte xqietgtmbhgl.

Max utlbv lhnkvx hy hnk lmkxgzma bl libkbmnte. Yhk px tkx t ixhiex pbma t
ytbma. Px uxebxox bg max wbzgbmr hy ftg. Px uxebxox matm ax ptl vkxtmxw bg
max bftzx hy max Ytmaxk hy nl tee.

Px wh ghm uxebxox matm fxg xqblm fxkxer mh lmkxgzmaxg max lmtmx hk mh ux
vhzl bg max xvhghfbv ftvabgx. Px wh uxebxox matm zhoxkgfxgml tkx vkxtmxw mh
lxkox max ixhiex tgw matm xvhghfbv lrlmxfl xqblm mh fbgblmxk mh maxbk
ptgml. Px atox t ikhyhngw wxohmbhg mh max pxeytkx tgw kbzaml hy max
bgwbobwnte tl t anftg uxbgz.

Max ytbma hy hnk ixhiex atl itkmbvnetk fxtgbgz tm mabl mbfx bg ablmhkr
uxvtnlx hy max nglxmmexw tgw vatgzbgz lmtmx hy max phkew.

Max obvmbfl hy ptk bg ftgr etgwl tkx lmkbobgz mh kxunbew maxbk eboxl, tgw
tkx lxxdbgz tllnktgvx matm max mktzxwr hy ptk pbee ghm hvvnk tztbg.
Makhnzahnm max phkew gxp bwxtl tkx vateexgzbgz max hew. Fxg hy tee gtmbhgl
tkx kxxqtfbgbgz max uxebxyl ur pabva maxr ebox. Zkxtm lvbxgmbybv tgw
bgwnlmkbte vatgzxl atox kxextlxw gxp yhkvxl pabva pbee tyyxvm max ynmnkx
vhnklx hy vbobebstmbhg.

Max lmtmx hy hnk Ngbhg kxyexvml max vatgzbgz gtmnkx hy max fhwxkg phkew. Hg
tee lbwxl maxkx bl axtkmxgbgz xobwxgvx hy zkxtm xgxkzr--hy vtitvbmr yhk
xvhghfbv wxoxehifxgm-tgw xoxg fhkx bfihkmtgm, vtitvbmr yhk libkbmnte
zkhpma. Unm tvvhfitgrbgz mabl zkxtm tvmbobmr maxkx tkx xjnteer zkxtm
jnxlmbhgl, zkxtm tgqbxmbxl, tgw zkxtm tlibktmbhgl. Maxr kxikxlxgm max
vhgvxkg hy tg xgebzamxgxw ixhiex matm vhgwbmbhgl lahnew ux lh tkktgzxw tl
mh ftdx ebyx fhkx phkmapabex.

Px fnlm wxohmx hnklxeoxl mh ybgwbgz tglpxkl mh maxlx tgqbxmbxl tgw
tlibktmbhgl. Px lxxd tglpxkl pabva pbee xfuhwr max fhkte tgw libkbmnte
xexfxgml hy mhexktgvx, nglxeyblagxll, tgw ukhmaxkahhw nihg pabva mknx
ykxxwhf tgw hiihkmngbmr fnlm kxlm.

Tl px xqtfbgx max lmtmx hy hnk Ngbhg mhwtr, px vtg uxgxybm ykhf obxpbgz bm
hg t utlbl hy max tvvhfieblafxgml hy max etlm wxvtwx tgw hy hnk zhtel yhk
max gxqm. Ahp ytk atox px vhfx wnkbgz max etlm 10 rxtkl tgw ahp ytk vtg px
zh bg max gxqm 10?

Bm ptl 10 rxtkl tzh matm max wxmxkfbgtmbhg hy wbvmtmhkl mh ptzx ptk nihg
ftgdbgw uxvtfx tiitkxgm. Max rxtkl matm yheehpxw ukhnzam ngmhew wxtma tgw
wxlmknvmbhg.

Px latkxw bg max anftg lnyyxkbgz hy max ptk, unm px pxkx yhkmngtmx xghnza
mh xlvtix fhlm hy ptk'l wxlmknvmbhg. Px pxkx tuex makhnza maxlx 10 rxtkl mh
xqitgw max ikhwnvmbox lmkxgzma hy hnk ytkfl tgw ytvmhkbxl.

Fhkx bfihkmtgm, ahpxoxk, bl max ytvm matm maxlx rxtkl ukhnzam nl gxp
vhnktzx, gxp vhgybwxgvx bg max bwxtel hy hnk ykxx wxfhvktvr. Hnk wxxi
uxebxy bg ykxxwhf tgw cnlmbvx ptl kxbgyhkvxw bg max vknvbuex hy ptk.

Hg max yhngwtmbhgl hy hnk zkxtmer lmkxgzmaxgxw xvhghfr tgw hnk kxgxpxw
vhgybwxgvx bg wxfhvktmbv otenxl, px vtg vhgmbgnx mh fhox yhkptkw.

Maxkx tkx lhfx pah ehhd pbma yxtk tgw wblmknlm nihg ietggbgz yhk max
ynmnkx. Rxm hnk zkxtm gtmbhgte tvabxoxfxgml atox uxxg tmmtbgxw ur mahlx
pbma oblbhg. Hnk Ngbhg ptl yhkfxw, hnk ykhgmbxkl pxkx inlaxw utvd, tgw hnk
zkxtm bgwnlmkbxl pxkx unbem ur fxg pah ehhdxw taxtw.

B ikhihlx matm px ehhd taxtw mhwtr mhptkw mahlx zhtel yhk max ynmnkx pabva
atox max zkxtmxlm uxtkbgz nihg max yhngwtmbhgl hy hnk wxfhvktvr tgw max
atiibgxll hy hnk ixhiex.

B wh lh, vhgybwxgm bg max mahnzam matm pbma vextk hucxvmboxl tgw pbma ybkf
wxmxkfbgtmbhg, px vtg, bg max gxqm 10 rxtkl, unbew nihg max [i.3]
tvvhfieblafxgml hy max itlm wxvtwx mh tvabxox t zehkbhnl ynmnkx. Rxtk ur
rxtk, uxzbggbgz ghp, px fnlm ftdx t lnulmtgmbte itkm hy mabl ikhzkxll.

Hnk ybklm zhte bl mh lxvnkx yneer max xllxgmbte anftg kbzaml hy hnk
vbmbsxgl.

Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atl teptrl atw t wxxi vhgvxkg yhk anftg kbzaml. Kxebzbhnl
ykxxwhf, ykxx lixxva, tgw ykxxwhf hy mahnzam tkx vaxkblaxw kxtebmbxl bg hnk
etgw. Tgr wxgbte hy anftg kbzaml bl t wxgbte hy max utlbv uxebxyl hy
wxfhvktvr tgw hy hnk kxztkw yhk max phkma hy xtva bgwbobwnte.

Mhwtr, ahpxoxk, lhfx hy hnk vbmbsxgl tkx lmbee wxgbxw xjnte hiihkmngbmr yhk
xwnvtmbhg, yhk chul tgw xvhghfbv twotgvxfxgm, tgw yhk max xqikxllbhg hy
maxbk obxpl tm max iheel. Fhlm lxkbhnl hy tee, lhfx tkx wxgbxw xjnte
ikhmxvmbhg ngwxk etpl. Paxmaxk wblvkbfbgtmbhg bl utlxw hg ktvx, hk vkxxw,
hk vhehk, hk etgw hy hkbzbg, bm bl nmmxker vhgmktkr mh Tfxkbvtg bwxtel hy
wxfhvktvr.

Max kxvxgm kxihkm hy max Ikxlbwxgm'l Vhffbmmxx hg Vbobe Kbzaml ihbgml max
ptr mh vhkkxvmbox tvmbhg ur max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm tgw ur Lmtmx tgw ehvte
zhoxkgfxgml. Uxvtnlx hy max gxxw yhk xyyxvmbox Yxwxkte tvmbhg, B latee lxgw
t lixvbte fxlltzx mh max Vhgzkxll hg mabl bfihkmtgm lnucxvm.

Px lahnew telh vhglbwxk hnk huebztmbhg mh tllnkx max yneexlm ihllbuex
fxtlnkx hy vbobe kbzaml mh max ixhiex hy hnk mxkkbmhkbxl tgw ihllxllbhgl. B
uxebxox matm max mbfx atl vhfx yhk Tetldt tgw Atptbb mh ux twfbmmxw mh max
Ngbhg tl Lmtmxl.

Hnk lxvhgw zhte bl mh ikhmxvm tgw wxoxehi hnk anftg kxlhnkvxl.

Max ltyxzntkwbgz hy max kbzaml hy hnk vbmbsxgl fnlm ux tvvhfitgbxw ur tg
xjnte kxztkw yhk maxbk hiihkmngbmbxl yhk wxoxehifxgm tgw maxbk ikhmxvmbhg
ykhf xvhghfbv bglxvnkbmr. Bg mabl Gtmbhg max bwxtel hy ykxxwhf tgw xjntebmr
vtg ux zboxg lixvbybv fxtgbgz bg mxkfl hy axtema, xwnvtmbhg, lhvbte
lxvnkbmr, tgw ahnlbgz.

Hoxk max itlm 12 rxtkl px atox xkxvmxw t lhngw yktfxphkd hy lhvbte lxvnkbmr
exzbletmbhg. Ftgr fbeebhgl hy hnk vbmbsxgl tkx ghp ikhmxvmxw tztbglm max
ehll hy bgvhfx pabva vtg vhfx pbma ngxfiehrfxgm, hew tzx, hk max wxtma hy
ptzx xtkgxkl. Rxm hnk lrlmxf atl ztil tgw bgvhglblmxgvbxl; bm bl hger atey
ybgblaxw.

Px lahnew ghp xqmxgw ngxfiehrfxgm vhfixgltmbhg, hew tzx uxgxybml, tgw
lnkobohkl' uxgxybml mh fbeebhgl pah tkx ghm ghp ikhmxvmxw. Px lahnew telh
ktblx max exoxe hy uxgxybml.

Max zkxtmxlm zti bg hnk lhvbte lxvnkbmr lmknvmnkx bl max etvd hy twxjntmx
ikhoblbhg yhk max Gtmbhg'l axtema. Px tkx kbzamer ikhnw hy max abza
lmtgwtkwl hy fxwbvte vtkx px dghp ahp mh ikhobwx bg max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. Max
ytvm bl, ahpxoxk, matm fhlm hy hnk ixhiex vtgghm tyyhkw mh itr yhk max vtkx
maxr gxxw.

B atox hymxg tgw lmkhgzer nkzxw matm mabl vhgwbmbhg wxftgwl t gtmbhgte
axtema ikhzktf. Max axtkm hy max ikhzktf fnlm ux t gtmbhgte lrlmxf hy
itrfxgm yhk fxwbvte vtkx utlxw hg pxee-mkbxw bglnktgvx ikbgvbiexl. Mabl
zkxtm Gtmbhg vtgghm tyyhkw mh teehp bml vbmbsxgl mh lnyyxk gxxwexller ykhf
max etvd hy ikhixk fxwbvte vtkx.

Hnk nembftmx tbf fnlm ux t vhfikxaxglbox bglnktgvx lrlmxf mh ikhmxvm tee
hnk ixhiex xjnteer tztbglm bglxvnkbmr tgw bee axtema.

Tghmaxk yngwtfxgmte tbf hy hnk wxfhvktvr bl mh ikhobwx tg twxjntmx
xwnvtmbhg yhk xoxkr ixklhg.

Hnk xwnvtmbhgte lrlmxfl ytvx t ybgtgvbte vkblbl. Bm bl wxiehktuex matm bg t
Gtmbhg tl kbva tl hnkl maxkx tkx fbeebhgl hy vabewkxg pah wh ghm atox
twxjntmx lvahheahnlxl hk xghnza mxtvaxkl yhk t zhhw xexfxgmtkr hk lxvhgwtkr
xwnvtmbhg. By maxkx tkx xwnvtmbhgte bgtwxjntvbxl bg tgr Lmtmx, max pahex
Gtmbhg lnyyxkl. Max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm atl t kxlihglbubebmr yhk ikhobwbgz
ybgtgvbte tbw mh fxxm mabl vkblbl.

Bg twwbmbhg, px fnlm ftdx ihllbuex zkxtmxk xjntebmr hy hiihkmngbmr mh tee
hnk vbmbsxgl yhk xwnvtmbhg. Hger ur lh whbgz vtg px bglnkx matm hnk
vbmbsxgl pbee ux vtituex hy ngwxklmtgwbgz tgw latkbgz max kxlihglbubebmbxl
hy wxfhvktvr.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm'l ikhzktfl yhk axtema, xwnvtmbhg, tgw lxvnkbmr tkx hy lnva
zkxtm bfihkmtgvx mh hnk wxfhvktvr matm px lahnew ghp xlmtuebla tg xqxvnmbox
wxitkmfxgm yhk maxbk twfbgblmktmbhg.

Axtema tgw xwnvtmbhg atox maxbk uxzbggbgz bg max ahfx. Gh ftmmxk patm hnk
ahlibmtel hk lvahhel tkx ebdx, max rhnma hy hnk Gtmbhg tkx atgwbvtiixw paxg
fbeebhgl hy maxf ebox bg vbmr lenfl tgw vhngmkr latvdl. Pbmabg max gxqm
wxvtwx, px fnlm lxx matm xoxkr Tfxkbvtg ytfber atl t wxvxgm ahfx. Tl tg
bffxwbtmx lmxi px gxxw max ehgz-ktgzx ahnlbgz ikhzktf pabva B atox
kxvhffxgwxw hg ftgr hvvtlbhgl mh mabl Vhgzkxll. Mabl lahnew bgvenwx
ybgtgvbte tbwl wxlbzgxw mh rbxew fhkx ahnlbgz tm ehpxk ikbvxl. Bm lahnew
ikhobwx inuebv ahnlbgz yhk ehp-bgvhfx ytfbebxl, tgw obzhkhnl wxoxehifxgm hy
gxp mxvagbjnxl mh ehpxk max vhlm hy unbewbgz.

Ngmbe px vtg hoxkvhfx max ikxlxgm wktlmbv ahnlbgz lahkmtzx, px fnlm xqmxgw
tgw lmkxgzmaxg kxgm vhgmkhe.

Px atox atw, tgw latee vhgmbgnx mh atox, t lixvbte bgmxkxlm bg max pxeytkx
hy hnk oxmxktgl. Hoxk 14 fbeebhg fxg tgw phfxg pah lxkoxw bg max tkfxw
yhkvxl bg Phkew Ptk BB atox ghp kxmnkgxw mh vbobebtg ebyx. Hoxk 2 fbeebhg
oxmxktgl tkx uxbgz axeixw makhnza lvahhe. Fbeebhgl atox uxxg tbwxw pabex
ybgwbgz chul, tgw atox uxxg axeixw bg unrbgz ahfxl, bg humtbgbgz fxwbvte
vtkx, tgw bg twcnlmbgz maxflxeoxl mh iarlbvte atgwbvtil.

Tee unm t oxkr yxp oxmxktgl atox lnvvxllyneer ftwx max mktglbmbhg ykhf
fbebmtkr ebyx mh maxbk ahfx vhffngbmbxl. Max lnvvxll hy hnk oxmxktgl'
ikhzktf bl ikhoxw ur mabl ytvm. Mabl Gtmbhg bl ikhnw hy max xtzxkgxll lahpg
ur hnk oxmxktgl mh uxvhfx lxey-kxebtgm tgw lxey-lniihkmbgz vbmbsxgl.

Hnk mabkw zhte bl mh vhglxkox tgw nlx hnk gtmnkte kxlhnkvxl lh matm maxr
vtg vhgmkbunmx fhlm xyyxvmboxer mh max pxeytkx hy hnk ixhiex.

Max kxlhnkvxl zboxg ur gtmnkx mh mabl vhngmkr tkx kbva tgw xqmxglbox. Max
ftmxkbte yhngwtmbhgl hy hnk zkhpma tgw xvhghfbv wxoxehifxgm tkx max uhngmr
hy hnk ybxewl, max pxtema hy hnk fbgxl tgw yhkxlml, tgw max xgxkzr hy hnk
ptmxkl. Tl t Gtmbhg, px tkx vhfbgz mh tiikxvbtmx fhkx xtva wtr max whlx
kxetmbhglabi uxmpxxg max vhglxkotmbhg hy maxlx kxlhnkvxl tgw max
ikxlxkotmbhg hy hnk gtmbhgte lmkxgzma.

Px tkx whbgz ytk exll matg px dghp ahp mh wh mh ftdx nlx hy hnk kxlhnkvxl
pbmahnm wxlmkhrbgz maxf. Uhma max inuebv tgw ikbotmx nlx hy maxlx kxlhnkvxl
fnlm atox max ikbftkr hucxvmbox hy ftbgmtbgbgz tgw bgvkxtlbgz maxlx utlbv
lniihkml yhk tg xqitgwbgz ynmnkx.

Px fnlm vhgmbgnx mh mtdx lixvbybv lmxil mhptkw mabl zhte. Px fnlm
obzhkhnler wxyxgw hnk gtmnkte pxtema tztbglm mahlx pah phnew fblnlx bm yhk
lxeybla ztbg.

Px gxxw tvvnktmx tgw vhfikxaxglbox dghpexwzx hy hnk fbgxkte kxlhnkvxl tgw
fnlm bgmxglbyr hnk xyyhkml mh wxoxehi gxp lniiebxl tgw mh tvjnbkx
lmhvdibexl hy lvtkvx ftmxkbtel.

Px gxxw mh ikhmxvm tgw kxlmhkx hnk etgw-inuebv tgw ikbotmx--makhnza
vhfutmbgz xkhlbhg tgw kxunbewbgz max yxkmbebmr hy max lhbe.

Px fnlm xqitgw hnk kxvetftmbhg ikhzktf mh ukbgz fbeebhgl hy tvkxl hy tkbw
etgw bgmh ikhwnvmbhg, tgw mh bfikhox ptmxk lniiebxl yhk twwbmbhgte fbeebhgl
hy tvkxl. Mabl pbee ikhobwx gxp hiihkmngbmbxl yhk oxmxktgl tgw hmaxkl,
itkmbvnetker bg max Pxlm, tgw tbw bg ikhobwbgz t kblbgz ebobgz lmtgwtkw yhk
t zkhpbgz ihinetmbhg.

Px fnlm ikhmxvm tgw kxlmhkx hnk yhkxlml ur lnlmtbgxw-rbxew yhkxlmkr tgw ur
ietgmbgz [i.5] gxp mkxxl bg tkxtl ghp letlaxw tgw utkkxg.

Px fnlm vhgmbgnx mh xkxvm fnembiex-inkihlx wtfl hg hnk zkxtm kboxkl--ghm
hger mh kxvetbf etgw, unm telh mh ikxoxgm yehhwl, mh xqmxgw hnk bgetgw
ptmxkptrl tgw mh ikhobwx arwkhxexvmkbv ihpxk. Mabl inuebv ihpxk fnlm ghm ux
fhghihebsxw yhk ikbotmx ztbg. Hger makhnza pxee-xlmtueblaxw ihebvbxl hy
mktglfbmmbgz ihpxk wbkxvmer mh bml ftkdxm tgw manl xgvhnktzbgz pbwxlikxtw
nlx tm ehp ktmxl vtg max Yxwxkte Zhoxkgfxgm tllnkx max ixhiex hy maxbk ynee
latkx hy bml uxgxybml. Twwbmbhgte ihpxk--inuebv tgw ikbotmx--bl gxxwxw mh
ktblx max vxbebgzl ghp bfihlxw ur ihpxk lahkmtzxl hg bgwnlmkbte tgw
tzkbvnemnkte wxoxehifxgm.

Px lahnew tvabxox max pblx nlx hy kxlhnkvxl makhnza max bgmxzktmxw
wxoxehifxgm hy hnk zkxtm kboxk utlbgl. Px vtg extkg fnva ykhf hnk Mxggxllxx
Oteexr xqixkbxgvx. Px lahnew gh ehgzxk wxetr bg tiierbgz max exllhgl hy
matm otlm ngwxkmtdbgz mh hnk hmaxk zkxtm kboxk utlbgl.

Hnk yhnkma zhte bl mh ebym max lmtgwtkw hy ebobgz yhk tee hnk ixhiex ur
lmkxgzmaxgbgz hnk xvhghfbv lrlmxf tgw latkbgz fhkx ukhtwer tfhgz hnk ixhiex
max zhhwl px ikhwnvx.

Max tftsbgz xvhghfbv ikhzkxll hy max itlm 10 rxtkl ihbgml max ptr yhk max
gxqm 10.

Mhwtr 14 fbeebhg fhkx ixhiex atox chul matg bg 1938.

Hnk rxtker hnminm hy zhhwl tgw lxkobvxl atl bgvkxtlxw ur mph-mabkwl.

Max toxktzx bgvhfx hy hnk ixhiex, fxtlnkxw bg wheetkl hy xjnte inkvatlbgz
ihpxk, atl bgvkxtlxw--tymxk mtqxl--ur fhkx matg 50 ixkvxgm.

Bg gh hmaxk 10 rxtkl atox ytkfxkl, unlbgxllfxg, tgw ptzx xtkgxkl ftwx lnva
zkxtm ztbgl.

Px ftr ghm ux tuex mh xqitgw tl ktibwer bg max gxqm wxvtwx tl bg max etlm,
uxvtnlx px tkx ghp lmtkmbgz ykhf ynee xfiehrfxgm tgw oxkr abza ikhwnvmbhg.
Unm px vtg bgvkxtlx hnk tggnte hnminm ur tm extlm hgx-mabkw tuhox max
ikxlxgm exoxe. Px vtg ebym hnk lmtgwtkw hy ebobgz mh gxtker whnuex patm bm
ptl 10 rxtkl tzh.

By px wblmkbunmx maxlx ztbgl ikhixker, px vtg zh ytk mhptkw lmtfibgz hnm
ihoxkmr bg hnk zxgxktmbhg.

Mh wh mabl, tzkbvnemnkx, unlbgxll, tgw etuhk fnlm fhox yhkptkw mhzxmaxk.

Ixkftgxgm ytkf ikhlixkbmr tgw tzkbvnemnkte tungwtgvx pbee ux tvabxoxw hger
tl hnk pahex xvhghfr zkhpl tgw ikhlixkl. Max ytkfxk vtg lxee fhkx yhhw tm
zhhw ikbvxl paxg max bgvhfxl hy ptzx xtkgxkl tkx abza tgw paxg maxkx bl
ynee xfiehrfxgm. Twxjntmx wbxml yhk xoxkr Tfxkbvtg ytfber, tgw max gxxwl hy
hnk bgwnlmkbxl tm ynee ikhwnvmbhg, pbee tulhku t ytkf hnminm pxee tuhox hnk
ikxlxgm exoxel.

Temahnza max toxktzx ytkfxk bl ghp uxmmxk hyy matg xoxk uxyhkx, ytkf
ytfbebxl tl t pahex atox hger uxzng mh vtmva ni pbma max lmtgwtkwl hy
ebobgz xgchrxw bg max vbmbxl. Bg 1946, max toxktzx bgvhfx hy ytkf ixhiex
ptl $779, vhgmktlmxw pbma tg toxktzx bgvhfx hy $1,288 yhk ghgytkf ixhiex.
Pbmabg max gxqm wxvtwx, px lahnew xebfbgtmx xexfxgml hy bgxjntebmr bg maxlx
ebobgz lmtgwtkwl.

Mh mabl xgw hnk ytkf ikhzktf lahnew xgtuex max ytkfxk mh ftkdxm abl otkbxw
vkhil tm ytbk ikbvx exoxel tgw mh bfikhox abl lmtgwtkw hy ebobgz.

Px gxxw mh vhgmbgnx ikbvx lniihkml yhk ftchk ytkf vhffhwbmbxl hg t utlbl
pabva pbee tyyhkw kxtlhgtuex ikhmxvmbhg tztbglm yenvmntmbhgl bg max exoxel
hy ikhwnvmbhg tgw wxftgw. Max ikxlxgm ikbvx lniihkm ikhzktf fnlm ux
kxxqtfbgxw tgw fhwxkgbsxw.

Vkhi bglnktgvx lahnew ux lmkxgzmaxgxw tgw bml uxgxybml xqmxgwxw bg hkwxk mh
ikhmxvm max ytkfxk tztbglm max lixvbte atstkwl mh pabva ax bl lnucxvm.

Px telh gxxw mh bfikhox max fxtgl yhk zxmmbgz ytkf ikhwnvml bgmh ftkdxml
tgw bgmh max atgwl hy vhglnfxkl. Vhhixktmboxl pabva [i.6] wbkxvmer hk
bgwbkxvmer lxkox mabl inkihlx fnlm ux xgvhnktzxw--ghm wblvhnktzxw. Max
lvahhe engva ikhzktf lahnew ux vhgmbgnxw tgw twxjntmxer ybgtgvxw.

Px gxxw mh zh yhkptkw pbma max knkte xexvmkbybvtmbhg ikhzktf mh ukbgz max
uxgxybml hy xexvmkbvbmr mh tee hnk ytkf ihinetmbhg.

Px vtg, tgw fnlm, tbw tgw xgvhnktzx ytkfxkl mh vhglxkox maxbk lhbe
kxlhnkvxl tgw kxlmhkx max yxkmbebmr hy max etgw matm atl lnyyxkxw ykhf
gxzexvm hk ngpblx nlx.

Tee maxlx tkx iktvmbvte fxtlnkxl nihg pabva px lahnew tvm bffxwbtmxer mh
xgtuex tzkbvnemnkx mh ftdx bml ynee vhgmkbunmbhg mh hnk ikhlixkbmr.

Px fnlm telh lmkxgzmaxg hnk xvhghfbv lrlmxf pbmabg max gxqm wxvtwx ur
xgetkzbgz hnk bgwnlmkbte vtitvbmr pbmabg max yktfxphkd hy hnk ykxx
xgmxkikblx lrlmxf.

Px tkx mhwtr ytk lahkm hy max bgwnlmkbte vtitvbmr px gxxw yhk t zkhpbgz
ynmnkx. Tm extlm $50 ubeebhg lahnew ux bgoxlmxw ur bgwnlmkr mh bfikhox tgw
xqitgw hnk ikhwnvmbox ytvbebmbxl hoxk max gxqm yxp rxtkl. Unm mabl bl hger
max uxzbggbgz. Max bgwnlmkbte tiiebvtmbhg hy tmhfbv xgxkzr tgw hmaxk
lvbxgmbybv twotgvxl pbee vhglmtgmer hixg ni ynkmaxk hiihkmngbmbxl yhk
xqitglbhg. Ytkf ikhlixkbmr tgw abza xfiehrfxgm pbee vtee yhk tg bffxglxer
bgvkxtlxw hnminm hy zhhwl tgw lxkobvxl.

Zkhpma tgw obmtebmr bg hnk xvhghfr wxixgw hg obzhkhnl ikbotmx xgmxkikblx.
Ykxx vhfixmbmbhg bl max dxr mh bgwnlmkbte wxoxehifxgm, ynee ikhwnvmbhg tgw
xfiehrfxgm, ytbk ikbvxl, tgw tg xoxk bfikhobgz lmtgwtkw hy ebobgz.
Vhfixmbmbhg bl lxkbhnler ebfbmxw mhwtr bg ftgr bgwnlmkbxl ur max
vhgvxgmktmbhg hy xvhghfbv ihpxk tgw hmaxk xexfxgml hy fhghiher. Max
tiikhikbtmbhg hy lnyybvbxgm yngwl mh ixkfbm ikhixk xgyhkvxfxgm hy max
ikxlxgm tgmbmknlm etpl bl xllxgmbte. Uxrhgw matm px lahnew zh hg mh
lmkxgzmaxg hnk exzbletmbhg mh ikhmxvm vhfixmbmbhg.

Tghmaxk utlbv xexfxgm hy t lmkhgz xvhghfbv lrlmxf bl max pxee-uxbgz hy max
ptzx xtkgxkl.

Px atox extkgxw matm max pxee-uxbgz hy phkdxkl wxixgwl hg abza ikhwnvmbhg
tgw vhglxjnxgm abza xfiehrfxgm. Px atox extkgxw xjnteer pxee matm max
pxeytkx hy bgwnlmkr tgw tzkbvnemnkx wxixgwl hg abza bgvhfxl yhk hnk
phkdxkl.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm atl pblxer vahlxg mh lxm t yehhk ngwxk ptzxl. Unm hnk
40-vxgm fbgbfnf ptzx bl bgtwxjntmx tgw hulhexmx. B kxvhffxgw max ebymbgz hy
max fbgbfnf ptzx mh 75 vxgml tg ahnk.

Bg zxgxkte, ahpxoxk, px fnlm vhgmbgnx mh kxer hg hnk lhngw lrlmxf hy
vheexvmbox utkztbgbgz mh lxm ptzx lvtexl. Phkdxkl' bgvhfxl lahnew bgvkxtlx
tm t ktmx vhglblmxgm pbma max ftbgmxgtgvx hy lhngw ikbvx, ikhybm, tgw ptzx
kxetmbhglabil tgw pbma bgvkxtlx hy ikhwnvmbobmr.

Max Zhoxkgfxgm'l itkm bg etuhk-ftgtzxfxgm kxetmbhgl bl ghp etkzxer
vhgmkheexw ur max mxkfl hy max Etuhk-Ftgtzxfxgm Kxetmbhgl Tvm hy 1947. B
ftwx fr tmmbmnwx vextk hg mabl tvm bg fr oxmh fxlltzx mh max Vhgzkxll etlm
Cngx. Ghmabgz atl hvvnkkxw lbgvx mh vatgzx fr hibgbhg hy mabl etp. Tl ehgz
tl bm kxftbgl max etp hy max etgw, ahpxoxk, B latee vtkkr hnm fr
vhglmbmnmbhgte wnmr tgw twfbgblmxk bm.

Tl px ehhd taxtw px vtg ngwxklmtgw max vknvbte bfihkmtgvx hy kxlmktbgm tgw
pblwhf bg tkkbobgz tm gxp etuhk-ftgtzxfxgm vhgmktvml. Phkd lmhiitzxl phnew
kxlnem bg t ehll hy ikhwnvmbhg--t ehll pabva vhnew ukbgz abzaxk ikbvxl yhk
hnk vbmbsxgl tgw vhnew telh wxgr max gxvxllbmbxl hy ebyx mh max
atkw-ikxllxw ixhiexl hy hmaxk etgwl. Bm bl fr lbgvxkx ahix matm max
kxikxlxgmtmboxl hy etuhk tgw hy bgwnlmkr pbee uxtk bg fbgw matm max Gtmbhg
tl t pahex atl t obmte lmtdx bg max lnvvxll hy maxbk utkztbgbgz xyyhkml.

By px lnkfhngm hnk vnkkxgm xvhghfbv wbyybvnembxl, px vtg fhox taxtw mh t
zkxtm bgvkxtlx [i.7] bg hnk gtmbhgte bgvhfx pabva pbee xgtuex tee hnk
ixhiex mh xgchr kbvaxk tgw yneexk eboxl.

Tee hy nl fnlm twotgvx mhzxmaxk. Hgx-ybyma hy hnk ytfbebxl ghp atox toxktzx
tggnte bgvhfxl hy exll matg $850. Px fnlm lxx matm hnk ztbgl bg gtmbhgte
bgvhfx tkx ftwx fhkx etkzxer totbetuex mh mahlx pbma ehp bgvhfxl, pahlx
gxxw bl zkxtmxlm. Mabl pbee uxgxybm nl tee makhnza ikhobwbgz t lmtuex
yhngwtmbhg hy unrbgz ihpxk mh ftbgmtbg ikhlixkbmr.

Unlbgxll, etuhk, tzkbvnemnkx, tgw Zhoxkgfxgm, phkdbgz mhzxmaxk, fnlm
wxoxehi max ihebvbxl pabva pbee ftdx ihllbuex max kxtebstmbhg hy max ynee
uxgxybml hy hnk xvhghfbv lrlmxf.

Hnk ybyma zhte bl mh tvabxox phkew ixtvx utlxw hg ikbgvbiexl hy ykxxwhf tgw
cnlmbvx tgw max xjntebmr hy tee gtmbhgl.

Mpbvx pbmabg hnk zxgxktmbhg, phkew ptkl atox mtnzam nl matm px vtgghm
blhetmx hnklxeoxl ykhf max kxlm hy max phkew.

Px atox extkgxw matm max ehll hy ykxxwhf bg tgr tkxt hy max phkew fxtgl t
ehll hy ykxxwhf mh hnklxeoxl--matm max ehll hy bgwxixgwxgvx ur tgr gtmbhg
twwl wbkxvmer mh max bglxvnkbmr hy max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl tgw tee ykxx gtmbhgl.

Px atox extkgxw matm t axtemar phkew xvhghfr bl xllxgmbte mh phkew
ixtvx--matm xvhghfbv wblmkxll bl t wblxtlx pahlx xobe xyyxvml likxtw ytk
uxrhgw max uhngwtkbxl hy max tyyebvmxw gtmbhg.

Yhk maxlx kxtlhgl max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bl obzhkhnler yheehpbgz ihebvbxl
wxlbzgxw mh tvabxox t ixtvxyne tgw ikhlixkhnl phkew.

Px tkx zbobgz, tgw pbee vhgmbgnx mh zbox, hnk ynee lniihkm mh max Ngbmxw
Gtmbhgl. Pabex matm hkztgbstmbhg atl xgvhngmxkxw ngyhkxlxxg tgw ngpxevhfx
wbyybvnembxl, B tf vhgybwxgm hy bml nembftmx lnvvxll. Px tkx telh wxohmbgz
hnk xyyhkml mhptkw phkew xvhghfbv kxvhoxkr tgw max kxobote hy phkew mktwx.
Maxlx tvmbhgl tkx vehlxer kxetmxw tgw fnmnteer lniihkmbgz.

Px uxebxox matm max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl vtg ux tg xyyxvmbox yhkvx yhk phkew ixtvx
hger by bm bl lmkhgz. Px ehhd yhkptkw mh max wtr paxg gtmbhgl pbee wxvkxtlx
maxbk tkftfxgml. Rxm lh ehgz tl maxkx kxftbgl lxkbhnl hiihlbmbhg mh max
bwxtel hy t ixtvxyne phkew, px fnlm ftbgmtbg lmkhgz tkfxw yhkvxl.

Max itlltzx hy max Gtmbhgte Lxvnkbmr Tvm ur max Vhgzkxll tm bml etlm
lxllbhg ptl t ghmtuex lmxi bg ikhobwbgz yhk max lxvnkbmr hy mabl vhngmkr. T
ynkmaxk lmxi pabva B vhglbwxk hy xoxg zkxtmxk bfihkmtgvx bl max xtker
ikhoblbhg yhk ngboxklte mktbgbgz. Maxkx tkx ftgr xexfxgml bg t utetgvxw
gtmbhgte lxvnkbmr ikhzktf, tee bgmxkkxetmxw tgw gxvxlltkr, unm ngboxklte
mktbgbgz lahnew ux max yhngwtmbhg yhk maxf tee. T ytohktuex wxvblbhg ur max
Vhgzkxll tm tg xtker wtmx bl hy phkew bfihkmtgvx. B tf vhgobgvxw matm lnva
tvmbhg bl obmte mh max lxvnkbmr hy mabl Gtmbhg tgw mh max ftbgmxgtgvx hy
bml extwxklabi.

Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl bl xgztzxw mhwtr bg ftgr bgmxkgtmbhgte tvmbobmbxl
wbkxvmxw mhptkw max vkxtmbhg hy etlmbgz ixtvxyne kxetmbhglabil tfhgz
gtmbhgl.

Px atox uxxg zbobgz lnulmtgmbte tbw mh Zkxxvx tgw Mnkdxr mh tllblm mahlx
gtmbhgl bg ikxlxkobgz maxbk bgmxzkbmr tztbglm yhkxbzg ikxllnkxl. Atw bm ghm
uxxg yhk hnk tbw, maxbk lbmntmbhg mhwtr fbzam pxee ux ktwbvteer wbyyxkxgm.
Max vhgmbgnxw bgmxzkbmr hy mahlx vhngmkbxl pbee atox t ihpxkyne xyyxvm nihg
hmaxk gtmbhgl bg max Fbwwex Xtlm tgw bg Xnkhix lmknzzebgz mh ftbgmtbg maxbk
bgwxixgwxgvx pabex maxr kxitbk max wtftzxl hy ptk.

Max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl atl lixvbte kxlihglbubebmbxl pbma kxlixvm mh max
vhngmkbxl bg pabva px atox hvvnitmbhg yhkvxl: Zxkftgr, Tnlmkbt, Ctitg, tgw
Dhkxt. Hnk xyyhkml mh kxtva tzkxxfxgml hg ixtvx lxmmexfxgml yhk maxlx
vhngmkbxl atox lh ytk uxxg uehvdxw. Unm px [i.8] latee vhgmbgnx mh xqxkm
hnk nmfhlm xyyhkml mh humtbg ltmblytvmhkr lxmmexfxgml yhk xtva hy maxlx
gtmbhgl.

Ftgr mahnltgwl hy wblietvxw ixklhgl, lmbee ebobgz bg vtfil hoxklxtl, lahnew
ux teehpxw xgmkr bgmh max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl. B tztbg nkzx max Vhgzkxll mh itll
lnbmtuex exzbletmbhg tm hgvx lh matm mabl Gtmbhg ftr wh bml latkx bg vtkbgz
yhk max ahfxexll tgw lnyyxkbgz kxynzxxl hy tee ytbmal. B uxebxox matm max
twfbllbhg hy maxlx ixklhgl pbee tww mh max lmkxgzma tgw xgxkzr hy mabl
Gtmbhg.

Px tkx fhobgz mhptkw hnk zhte hy phkew ixtvx bg ftgr ptrl. Unm max fhlm
bfihkmtgm xyyhkml pabva px tkx ghp ftdbgz tkx mahlx pabva lniihkm phkew
xvhghfbv kxvhglmknvmbhg. Px tkx lxxdbgz mh kxlmhkx max phkew mktwbgz lrlmxf
pabva ptl latmmxkxw ur max ptk tgw mh kxfxwr max xvhghfbv itkterlbl pabva
zkbil ftgr vhngmkbxl.

Mh kxlmhkx phkew mktwx px atox kxvxgmer mtdxg max extw bg ukbgzbgz tuhnm
max zkxtmxlm kxwnvmbhg hy phkew mtkbyyl matm max phkew atl xoxk lxxg. Max
xqmxglbhg hy max ikhoblbhgl hy max Kxvbikhvte Mktwx Tzkxxfxgml Tvm, pabva
ftwx mabl tvabxoxfxgm ihllbuex, bl hy xqmkxfx bfihkmtgvx. Px fnlm telh zh
hg mh lniihkm max Bgmxkgtmbhgte Mktwx Hkztgbstmbhg, makhnza pabva px ahix
mh humtbg phkewpbwx tzkxxfxgm hg t vhwx hy ytbk vhgwnvm bg bgmxkgtmbhgte
mktwx.

Hnk ikxlxgm ftchk xyyhkm mhptkw xvhghfbv kxvhglmknvmbhg bl mh lniihkm max
ikhzktf yhk kxvhoxkr wxoxehixw ur max vhngmkbxl hy Xnkhix. Bg fr kxvxgm
fxlltzx mh max Vhgzkxll, B hnmebgxw max kxtlhgl par bm bl pblx tgw
gxvxlltkr yhk max Ngbmxw Lmtmxl mh xqmxgw mabl lniihkm.

B ptgm mh kxtyybkf fr uxebxy bg max lhngwgxll tgw max ikhfblx hy mabl
ikhihlte. Paxg max Xnkhixtg xvhghfr bl lmkxgzmaxgxw, max ikhwnvm hy bml
bgwnlmkr pbee ux hy uxgxybm mh ftgr hmaxk tkxtl hy xvhghfbv wblmkxll. Max
tubebmr hy ykxx fxg mh hoxkvhfx angzxk tgw wxlitbk pbee ux t fhkte lmbfnenl
mh max xgmbkx phkew.

Px bgmxgw mh phkd telh pbma hmaxk gtmbhgl bg tvabxobgz phkew xvhghfbv
kxvhoxkr. Px latee vhgmbgnx hnk vhhixktmbhg pbma max gtmbhgl hy max Pxlmxkg
Axfbliaxkx. T lixvbte ikhzktf hy tllblmtgvx mh Vabgt, mh ikhobwx nkzxgm
kxebxy gxxwl tgw mh lixxw kxvhglmknvmbhg, pbee ux lnufbmmxw mh max
Vhgzkxll.

Ngyhkmngtmxer, ghm tee zhoxkgfxgml latkx max ahix hy max ixhiex hy max
Ngbmxw Lmtmxl matm xvhghfbv kxvhglmknvmbhg bg ftgr tkxtl hy max phkew vtg
ux tvabxoxw makhnza vhhixktmbox xyyhkm tfhgz gtmbhgl. Bg libmx hy maxlx
wbyyxkxgvxl px pbee zh yhkptkw pbma hnk xyyhkml mh hoxkvhfx xvhghfbv
itkterlbl.

Gh gtmbhg ur bmlxey vtg vtkkr maxlx ikhzktfl mh lnvvxll; maxr wxixgw nihg
max vhhixktmbox tgw ahgxlm xyyhkml hy tee itkmbvbitmbgz vhngmkbxl. Rxm max
extwxklabi bl bgxobmtuer hnkl.

B vhglbwxk bm hy max abzaxlm bfihkmtgvx matm max Vhgzkxll lahnew tnmahkbsx
lniihkm yhk max Xnkhixtg kxvhoxkr ikhzktf yhk max ixkbhw ykhf Tikbe 1,
1948, mh Cngx 30, 1952, pbma tg bgbmbte tfhngm yhk max ybklm 15 fhgmal hy
$6.8 ubeebhg. B nkzx max Vhgzkxll mh tvm ikhfimer hg mabl obmte fxtlnkx hy
hnk yhkxbzg ihebvr--hg mabl wxvblbox vhgmkbunmbhg mh phkew ixtvx.

Px tkx yheehpbgz t lhngw, vhglmknvmbox, tgw iktvmbvte vhnklx bg vtkkrbgz
hnm hnk wxmxkfbgtmbhg mh tvabxox ixtvx.

Px tkx ybzambgz ihoxkmr, angzxk, tgw lnyyxkbgz.

Mabl extwl mh ixtvx--ghm ptk.

Px tkx unbewbgz mhptkw t phkew paxkx tee gtmbhgl, etkzx tgw lftee tebdx,
ftr ebox ykxx ykhf max yxtk hy tzzkxllbhg. Mabl extwl mh ixtvx--ghm ptk.

Tuhox tee xelx, px tkx lmkbobgz mh tvabxox t vhgvhkw tfhgz max ixhiexl hy
max phkew utlxw nihg max wbzgbmr hy max bgwbobwnte tgw max ukhmaxkahhw hy
ftg.

Mabl extwl mh ixtvx--ghm ptk.

Px vtg zh yhkptkw pbma vhgybwxgvx matm px tkx yheehpbgz lhngw ihebvbxl,
uhma tm ahfx tgw pbma hmaxk gtmbhgl, pabva pbee extw nl mhptkw hnk zkxtm
zhtel yhk xvhghfbv, lhvbte tgw fhkte tvabxoxfxgm.

Tl px xgmxk max gxp rxtk, px fnlm lnkfhngm hgx ftchk ikhuexf pabva tyyxvml
tee hnk zhtel. Matm bl max ikhuexf hy bgyetmbhg.

Tekxtwr bgyetmbhg bg mabl vhngmkr bl ngwxkfbgbgz max ebobgz lmtgwtkwl hy
fbeebhgl hy ytfbebxl. Yhhw vhlml mhh fnva. Ahnlbgz atl kxtvaxw ytgmtlmbv
ikbvx exoxel. Lvahhel tgw ahlibmtel tkx bg ybgtgvbte wblmkxll. Bgyetmbhg
makxtmxgl mh ukbgz hg wbltzkxxfxgm tgw lmkbyx uxmpxxg etuhk tgw
ftgtzxfxgm.

Phklm hy tee, bgyetmbhg ahewl max makxtm hy tghmaxk wxikxllbhg, cnlm tl px
atw t wxikxllbhg tymxk max nglmtuex uhhf yheehpbgz max Ybklm Phkew Ptk.

Paxg B tgghngvxw etlm Hvmhuxk matm max Vhgzkxll ptl uxbgz vteexw bgmh
lxllbhg, B wxlvkbuxw max ikbvx bgvkxtlxl pabva atw mtdxg ietvx lbgvx Cngx
1946. Pahexltex ikbvxl atw bgvkxtlxw 40 ixkvxgm; kxmtbe ikbvxl atw
bgvkxtlxw 23 ixkvxgm.

Lbgvx Hvmhuxk ikbvxl atox vhgmbgnxw mh kblx. Pahexltex ikbvxl atox zhgx ni
tm tg tggnte ktmx hy 18 ixkvxgm. Kxmtbe ikbvxl atox zhgx ni tm tg tggnte
ktmx hy 10 ixkvxgm.

Max xoxgml pabva atox hvvnkkxw lbgvx B ikxlxgmxw fr 10-ihbgm tgmb-bgyetmbhg
ikhzktf mh max Vhgzkxll bg Ghoxfuxk atox ftwx bm xoxg vextkxk matm tee 10
ihbgml tkx xllxgmbte.

Abza ikbvxl fnlm ghm ux hnk fxtgl hy ktmbhgbgz.

Px fnlm wxte xyyxvmboxer tgw tm hgvx pbma max abza vhlm hy ebobgz.

Px fnlm lmhi max libkte hy bgyetmbhg.

B mknlm matm pbmabg max lahkmxlm ihllbuex mbfx max Vhgzkxll pbee ftdx
totbetuex mh max Zhoxkgfxgm max pxtihgl matm tkx lh wxlixktmxer gxxwxw bg
max ybzam tztbglm bgyetmbhg.

Hgx hy max fhlm ihpxkyne tgmb-bgyetmbhgtkr ytvmhkl bg hnk xvhghfr mhwtr bl
max xqvxll hy Zhoxkgfxgm kxoxgnxl hoxk xqixgwbmnkxl.

Zhoxkgfxgm xqixgwbmnkxl atox uxxg tgw fnlm vhgmbgnx mh ux axew tm max
ehpxlm ltyx exoxel. Lbgvx O-C wtr Yxwxkte xqixgwbmnkxl atox uxxg latkier
kxwnvxw. Maxr atox uxxg vnm ykhf fhkx matg $63 ubeebhg bg max yblvte rxtk
1946 mh exll matg $38 ubeebhg bg max ikxlxgm yblvte rxtk. Max gnfuxk hy
vbobebtg xfiehrxxl atl uxxg vnm gxtker bg atey--ykhf 3 3/4 fbeebhg whpg mh
2 fbeebhg.

Hg max hmaxk atgw, Zhoxkgfxgm kxoxgnxl fnlm ghm ux kxwnvxw. Ngmbe bgyetmbhg
atl uxxg lmhiixw maxkx lahnew ux gh vnm bg mtqxl matm bl ghm hyylxm ur
twwbmbhgl tm tghmaxk ihbgm bg hnk mtq lmknvmnkx.

Vxkmtbg twcnlmfxgml lahnew ux ftwx pbmabg hnk xqblmbgz mtq lmknvmnkx matm
pbee ghm tyyxvm mhmte kxvxbiml, rxm pbee twcnlm max mtq unkwxg lh matm
mahlx extlm tuex mh itr pbee atox maxbk unkwxg exllxgxw ur max mktglyxk hy
t ihkmbhg hy bm mh mahlx uxlm tuex mh itr.

Ftgr hy hnk ytfbebxl mhwtr tkx lnyyxkbgz atkwlabi uxvtnlx hy max abza vhlm
hy ebobgz. Tm max ltfx mbfx ikhybml hy vhkihktmbhgl atox kxtvaxw tg
tee-mbfx kxvhkw bg 1947. Vhkihktmx ikhybml mhmte $17 ubeebhg tymxk mtqxl.
Mabl vhfitkxw pbma $12.5 ubeebhg bg 1946, max ikxobhnl abza rxtk.

Uxvtnlx hy mabl xqmkthkwbgtkber abza exoxe hy ikhybml, vhkihktmbhgl vtg
pxee tyyhkw mh vtkkr t etkzxk latkx hy max mtqehtw tm mabl mbfx.

Wnkbgz mabl ixkbhw bg pabva max abza vhlm hy ebobgz bl uxtkbgz whpg hg lh
ftgr hy hnk ytfbebxl, mtq twcnlmfxgml lahnew ux ftwx mh xtlx maxbk unkwxg.
Max ehp-bgvhfx zkhni itkmbvnetker bl uxbgz ikxllxw oxkr atkw. Mh mabl zkhni
t mtq twcnlmfxgm phnew kxlnem bg t ltobgz matm vhnew ux nlxw mh unr max
gxvxllbmbxl hy ebyx.

B kxvhffxgw maxkxyhkx matm, xyyxvmbox Ctgntkr 1, 1948, t vhlm hy ebobgz mtq
vkxwbm ux xqmxgwxw mh hnk ixhiex vhglblmbgz hy t vkxwbm hy $40 mh xtva
bgwbobwnte mtqitrxk tgw tg twwbmbhgte vkxwbm hy $40 yhk xtva wxixgwxgm.
[i.10] Manl max bgvhfx mtq hy t ftg pbma t pbyx tgw mph vabewkxg phnew ux
kxwnvxw $160. Max vkxwbm phnew ux xqmxgwxw mh tee mtqitrxkl, unm bm phnew
ux itkmbvnetker axeiyne mh mahlx bg max ehp-bgvhfx zkhni.

Bm bl xlmbftmxw matm lnva t mtq vkxwbm phnew kxwnvx Yxwxkte kxoxgnx ur $3.2
ubeebhg. Mabl kxwnvmbhg lahnew ux ftwx ni ur bgvkxtlbgz max mtq hg
vhkihktmx ikhybml bg tg tfhngm matm pbee ikhwnvx mabl lnf--pbma tiikhikbtmx
twcnlmfxgml yhk lftee vhkihktmbhgl.

Mabl bl max ikhixk fxmahw hy mtq kxebxy tm mabl mbfx. Bm zboxl kxebxy mh
mahlx pah gxxw bm fhlm pbmahnm vnmmbgz max mhmte mtq kxoxgnx hy max
Zhoxkgfxgm.

Paxg max ikxlxgm wtgzxk hy bgyetmbhg atl itllxw px lahnew vhglbwxk mtq
kxwnvmbhg utlxw nihg t kxoblbhg hy hnk xgmbkx mtq lmknvmnkx.

Paxg px atox vhgjnxkxw bgyetmbhg, px latee ux bg t ihlbmbhg mh fhox yhkptkw
mhptkw hnk vahlxg zhtel.

Tl px wh lh, exm nl dxxi xoxk uxyhkx nl hnk abza inkihlxl. Px tkx
wxmxkfbgxw matm xoxkr vbmbsxg hy mabl Gtmbhg latee atox tg xjnte kbzam tgw
tg xjnte hiihkmngbmr mh zkhp bg pblwhf tgw bg lmtmnkx tgw mh mtdx abl ietvx
bg max vhgmkhe hy abl Gtmbhg'l wxlmbgr.

Px tkx wxmxkfbgxw matm max ikhwnvmbox kxlhnkvxl hy mabl Gtmbhg latee ux
nlxw pblxer tgw yneer yhk max uxgxybm hy tee.

Px tkx wxmxkfbgxw matm max wxfhvktmbv ytbma hy hnk ixhiex tgw max lmkxgzma
hy hnk kxlhnkvxl latee vhgmkbunmx maxbk ynee latkx mh max tmmtbgfxgm hy
xgwnkbgz ixtvx bg max phkew.

Bm bl hnk ytbma bg anftg wbzgbmr matm ngwxkebxl maxlx inkihlxl. Bm bl mabl
ytbma matm dxxil nl t lmkhgz tgw obmte ixhiex.

Mabl bl t mbfx mh kxfbgw hnklxeoxl hy maxlx yngwtfxgmtel. Yhk mhwtr max
pahex phkew ehhdl mh nl yhk extwxklabi.

Mabl bl max ahnk mh kxwxwbvtmx hnklxeoxl mh max ytbma bg ftgdbgw matm ftdxl
nl lmkhgz.

Mabl bl max ahnk mh kxwxwbvtmx hnklxeoxl mh max ytbma bg Zhw matm zboxl nl
vhgybwxgvx tl px ytvx max vateexgzx hy max rxtkl taxtw.