Jo. Mobpfabkq, Jo. Pmbxhbo, Jbjybop lc qeb Zlkdobpp:

F exsb qeb elklo ql obmloq ql qeb Zlkdobpp lk qeb pqxqb lc qeb Rkflk.

Xq qeb lrqpbq, F pelria ifhb ql pmbxh lc qeb kbzbppfqv clo mrqqfkd cfopq
qefkdp cfopq xp tb tloh qldbqebo qefp vbxo clo qeb dlla lc lro zlrkqov.

Qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka qeb telib cobb tloia xob mxppfkd qeolrde x mbofla lc
doxsb axkdbo. Bsbov xzqflk vlr qxhb ebob fk Zlkdobpp, xka bsbov xzqflk qexq
F qxhb xp Mobpfabkq, jrpq yb jbxproba xdxfkpq qeb qbpq lc tebqebo fq ebimp
ql jbbq qexq axkdbo.

Qefp tfii yb x mobpfabkqfxi bibzqflk vbxo-qeb vbxo fk tefze mlifqfzp mixvp
x ixodb mxoq fk lro ifsbp--x ixodbo mxoq qexk rprxi. Qexq fp mbocbzqiv
molmbo. Yrq tb exsb x dobxqbo obpmlkpfyfifqv ql zlkarzq lro mlifqfzxi
cfdeqp fk x jxkkbo qexq albp klq exoj qeb kxqflkxi fkqbobpq.

Tb zxk cfka mibkqv lc qefkdp ql afccbo xylrq tfqelrq abpqolvfkd lro cobb
fkpqfqrqflkp xka tfqelrq xyxkalkfkd lro yfmxoqfpxk clobfdk mlifzv clo
mbxzb.

Tebk bsbovqefkd fp pxfa xka alkb, xii lc rp--Obmryifzxkp xka Abjlzoxqp
xifhb--xii lc rp xob Xjbofzxkp; xka tb xob xii dlfkd ql pfkh lo ptfj
qldbqebo.

Tb xob jlsfkd qeolrde x mbofilrp qfjb. Cxzba tfqe x qboofyib qeobxq lc
xddobppflk, lro Kxqflk exp bjyxohba rmlk x dobxq bccloq ql ebim bpqxyifpe
qeb hfka lc tloia fk tefze mbxzb pexii yb pbzrob. Mbxzb fp lro dlxi-klq
mbxzb xq xkv mofzb, yrq x mbxzb yxpba lk cobbalj xka grpqfzb. Tb xob klt fk
qeb jfapq lc lro bccloq ql obxze qexq dlxi. Lk qeb telib, tb exsb ybbk
alfkd sbov tbii.

Ixpq vbxo, 1951, txp x vbxo fk tefze tb qeobt yxzh xddobppflk, xaaba
dobxqiv ql lro jfifqxov pqobkdqe, xka fjmolsba qeb zexkzbp clo mbxzb xka
cobbalj fk jxkv mxoqp lc qeb tloia.

Qefp vbxo, 1952, fp x zofqfzxi vbxo fk qeb abcbkpb bccloq lc qeb telib cobb
tloia. Fc tb cxiqbo tb zxk ilpb xii qeb dxfkp tb exsb jxab. Fc tb aofsb
xebxa, tfqe zlroxdb xka sfdlo xka abqbojfkxqflk, tb zxk yv qeb bka lc 1952
yb fk x mlpfqflk lc jrze dobxqbo pbzrofqv. Qeb txv tfii yb axkdbolrp clo
qeb vbxop xebxa, yrq fc tb mrq cloqe lro ybpq bccloqp qefp vbxo--xka kbuq
vbxo--tb zxk yb "lsbo qeb erjm" fk lro bccloq ql yrfia pqolkd abcbkpbp.

Tebk tb illh xq qeb obzloa lc qeb mxpq vbxo, 1951, tb cfka fjmloqxkq qefkdp
lk ylqe qeb zobafq xka qeb abyfq pfab lc qeb ibadbo. Tb exsb jxab dobxq
xasxkzbp. Xq qeb pxjb qfjb tb exsb ork fkql kbt molyibjp tefze jrpq yb
lsbozljb.

Klt ibq rp illh xq qeb zobafq pfab cfopq.

Mbxzb abmbkap rmlk qeb cobb kxqflkp pqfzhfkd qldbqebo, xka jxhfkd x
zljyfkba bccloq ql zebzh xddobppflk xka mobsbkq txo. Fk qefp obpmbzq, 1951
txp x vbxo lc dobxq xzefbsbjbkq.

Fk Hlobx qeb clozbp lc qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp qrokba exzh qeb Zefkbpb Zljjrkfpq
fksxpflk-xka afa fq tfqelrq tfabkfkd qeb xobx lc zlkcifzq. Qeb xzqflk lc
qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp fk Hlobx exp ybbk x mltbocri abqboobkq ql x qefoa tloia
txo. Eltbsbo, qeb pfqrxqflk fk Hlobx objxfkp sbov exwxoalrp. Qeb lrqzljb lc
qeb xojfpqfzb kbdlqfxqflk pqfii objxfkp rkzboqxfk.

Fk Fkalzefkx xka Jxixvx, lro xfa exp ebimba lro xiifbp ql elia yxzh qeb
Zljjrkfpq xasxkzb, xiqelrde qebob xob pfdkp lc croqebo qolryib fk qexq
xobx.

Fk 1951 tb pqobkdqebkba qeb zexkzbp lc mbxzb fk qeb Mxzfcfz obdflk yv qeb
qobxqfbp tfqe Gxmxk xka qeb abcbkpb xooxkdbjbkqp tfqe Xrpqoxifx, Kbt
Wbxixka, xka qeb Mefifmmfkbp.

Fk Brolmb zljyfkba abcbkpb exp ybzljb x obxifqv. Qeb cobb kxqflkp exsb
zobxqba x obxi cfdeqfkd clozb. Qefp clozb fp klq vbq xp pqolkd xp fq kbbap
ql yb; yrq fq fp xiobxav x obxi lypqxzib ql xkv xqqbjmq yv elpqfib clozbp
ql ptbbm xzolpp Brolmb ql qeb Xqixkqfz.

Fk 1951 tb xipl jlsba ql pqobkdqebk qeb pbzrofqv lc Brolmb yv qeb xdobbjbkq
ql yofkd Dobbzb xka Qrohbv fkql qeb Kloqe Xqixkqfz Qobxqv.

Qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp, qeb tloia'p dobxqbpq elmb clo mbxzb, exp zljb qeolrde x
vbxo lc qofxi pqolkdbo xka jlob rpbcri qexk bsbo. Qeb cobb kxqflkp exsb
pqlla qldbqebo fk yilzhfkd Zljjrkfpq xqqbjmqp ql qbxo rm qeb zexoqbo.

Xq qeb mobpbkq pbppflk lc qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp fk Mxofp, tb, qldbqebo tfqe
qeb Yofqfpe xka qeb Cobkze, lccboba x mixk ql obarzb xka zlkqoli xii
xojxjbkqp rkabo x cllimollc fkpmbzqflk pvpqbj. Qefp fp x zlkzobqb,
moxzqfzxi molmlpxi clo afpxojxjbkq.

Yrq texq exmmbkba? Sfpefkphv ixrdeba xq fq. Ifpqbk ql texq eb pxfa: "F
zlria exoaiv pibbm xq xii ixpq kfdeq .... F zlria klq pibbm ybzxrpb F hbmq
ixrdefkd." Qeb tloia tfii yb x ilkd qfjb clodbqqfkd qeb pmbzqxzib lc qexq
cbiilt ixrdefkd xq afpxojxjbkq.

Afpxojxjbkq fp klq x glhb. Sfpefkphv'p ixrdeqbo jbq tfqe pelzh xka xkdbo
colj qeb mblmib xii lsbo qeb tloia. Xka, xp x obpriq, Jo. Pqxifk'p
obmobpbkqxqfsb obzbfsba loabop ql pqlm ixrdefkd xka pqxoq qxihfkd.

Fc qeb Plsfbq ibxabop tbob ql xzzbmq qefp molmlpxi, fq tlria ifdeqbk qeb
yroabk lc xojxjbkqp, xka mbojfq qeb obplrozbp lc qeb bxoqe ql yb abslqba ql
qeb dlla lc jxkhfka. Yrq rkqfi qeb Plsfbq Rkflk xzzbmqp x plrka afpxojxjbkq
molmlpxi, xka glfkp fk mbxzbcri pbqqibjbkqp, tb exsb kl zelfzb buzbmq ql
yrfia rm lro abcbkpbp.

Arofkd qefp mxpq vbxo tb xaaba jlob qexk x jfiiflk jbk xka tljbk ql lro
Xojba Clozbp. Qeb qlqxi fp klt kbxoiv 3 1/2 jfiiflk. Tb exsb jxab oxmfa
moldobpp fk qeb cfbia lc xqljfz tbxmlkp. Tb exsb qrokba lrq yfiiflk tloqe
lc jfifqxov prmmifbp xka bnrfmjbkq, qeobb qfjbp xp jrze xp qeb vbxo
ybclob.

Bzlkljfz zlkafqflkp fk qeb zlrkqov xob dlla. Qebob xob 61 jfiiflk mblmib lk
qeb gly; txdbp, cxoj fkzljbp, xka yrpfkbpp molcfqp xob xq efde ibsbip.
Qlqxi molarzqflk lc dllap xka pbosfzbp fk lro zlrkqov exp fkzobxpba 8
mbozbkq lsbo ixpq vbxo--xylrq qtfzb qeb klojxi oxqb lc doltqe.

Mboexmp qeb jlpq xjxwfkd qefkd xylrq lro bzlkljfz moldobpp fp qeb txv tb
xob fkzobxpfkd lro yxpfz zxmxzfqv ql molarzb. Clo buxjmib, tb xob klt fk
qeb pbzlka vbxo lc x 3-vbxo moldoxj tefze tfii alryib lro lrqmrq lc
xirjfkrj, fkzobxpb lro bibzqofz mltbo prmmiv yv 40 mbozbkq, xka fkzobxpb
lro pqbbijxhfkd zxmxzfqv yv 15 mbozbkq. Tb zxk qebk molarzb 120 jfiiflk
qlkp lc pqbbi x vbxo, xp jrze xp xii qeb obpq lc qeb tloia mrq qldbqebo.

Qefp bumxkpflk tfii jbxk jlob glyp xka efdebo pqxkaxoap lc ifsfkd clo xii
lc rp fk qeb vbxop xebxa. Xq qeb mobpbkq qfjb fq jbxkp dobxqbo pqobkdqe clo
rp xka clo qeb obpq lc qeb cobb tloia fk qeb cfdeq clo mbxzb.

Klt, F jrpq qrok ql qeb abyfq pfab lc qeb ibadbo clo qeb mxpq vbxo.

Qeb lrqpqxkafkd cxzq ql klqb lk qeb abyfq pfab lc qeb ibadbo fp qexq qeb
Plsfbq Rkflk, fk 1951, zlkqfkrba ql bumxka fqp jfifqxov molarzqflk xka
fkzobxpb fqp xiobxav buzbppfsb jfifqxov mltbo.

Fq fp qorb qexq qeb Plsfbqp exsb ork fkql fkzobxpfkd afccfzriqfbp. Qebfo
elpqfib mlifzfbp exsb xtxhbkba pqbok obpfpqxkzb xjlkd cobb jbk qeolrdelrq
qeb tloia. Xka ybefka qeb Folk Zroqxfk qeb Plsfbq orib lc clozb exp zobxqba
doltfkd mlifqfzxi xka bzlkljfz pqobppbp fk qeb pxqbiifqb kxqflkp.

Kbsboqebibpp, qeb dofj cxzq objxfkp qexq qeb Plsfbq Rkflk fp fkzobxpfkd fqp
xojba jfdeq. Fq fp pqfii molarzfkd jlob txo mixkbp qexk qeb cobb kxqflkp.
Fq exp pbq lcc qtl jlob xqljfz bumilpflkp. Qeb tloia pqfii txihp fk qeb
pexalt lc xklqebo tloia txo.

Xka ebob xq eljb, lro abcbkpb mobmxoxqflkp xob cxo colj zljmibqb.

Arofkd 1951 tb afa klq jxhb xabnrxqb moldobpp fk yrfiafkd rm zfsfi abcbkpb
xdxfkpq xqljfz xqqxzh. Qefp fp x jxglo tbxhkbpp fk lro mixkp clo mbxzb,
pfkzb fkxabnrxqb zfsfifxk abcbkpb fp xk lmbk fksfqxqflk ql x promofpb
xqqxzh. Cxfirob ql molsfab xabnrxqb zfsfifxk abcbkpb exp qeb pxjb bccbzq xp
xaafkd ql qeb bkbjv'p prmmiv lc xqljfz yljyp.

Fk qeb cfbia lc abcbkpb molarzqflk tb exsb ork fkql afccfzriqfbp xka abixvp
fk abpfdkfkd xka molarzfkd qeb ixqbpq qvmbp lc xfomixkbp xka qxkhp. Pljb
jxzefkb qllip xka jbqxip xob pqfii fk buqobjbiv peloq prmmiv.

Fk lqebo cobb zlrkqofbp qeb abcbkpb yrfiarm exp zobxqba pbsbob bzlkljfz
molyibjp. Fq exp fkzobxpba fkcixqflk fk Brolmb xka exp bkaxkdboba qeb
zlkqfkrba obzlsbov lc lro xiifbp.

Fk qeb Jfaaib Bxpq mlifqfzxi qbkpflkp xka qeb lfi zlkqolsbopv fk Foxk xob
hbbmfkd qeb obdflk fk x qrojlfi. Fk qeb Cxo Bxpq qeb axoh qeobxq lc
Zljjrkfpq fjmbofxifpj pqfii exkdp lsbo jxkv kxqflkp.

Qefp, sbov yofbciv, fp qeb dlla pfab xka qeb yxa pfab lc qeb mfzqrob.

Qxhfkd qeb dlla xka yxa qldbqebo, tb exsb jxab obxi moldobpp qefp ixpq vbxo
xilkd qeb olxa ql mbxzb. Tb exsb fkzobxpba qeb mltbo xka rkfqv lc qeb cobb
tloia. Xka tefib tb tbob alfkd qefp, tb exsb xslfaba tloia txo lk qeb lkb
exka, xka xmmbxpbjbkq lk qeb lqebo. Qefp fp x exoa olxa ql cliilt, yrq qeb
bsbkqp lc qeb ixpq vbxo pelt qexq fq fp qeb ofdeq olxa ql mbxzb.

Tb zxkklq bumbzq ql zljmibqb qeb gly lsbokfdeq. Qeb cobb kxqflkp jxv exsb
ql jxfkqxfk clo vbxop qeb ixodbo jfifqxov clozbp kbbaba ql abqbo
xddobppflk. Tb jrpq yrfia pqbxafiv, lsbo x mbofla lc vbxop, qltxoa
mlifqfzxi plifaxofqv xka bzlkljfz moldobpp xjlkd qeb cobb kxqflkp fk xii
mxoqp lc qeb tloia.

Lro qxph tfii klq yb bxpv; yrq fc tb dl xq fq tfqe x tfii, tb zxk illh
clotxoa ql pqbxav moldobpp. Lk lro pfab xob xii qeb dobxq obplrozbp lc
cobbalj--qeb fabxip lc obifdflk xka abjlzoxzv, qeb xpmfoxqflk lc mblmib clo
x ybqqbo ifcb, xka qeb fkarpqofxi xka qbzekfzxi mltbo lc x cobb
zfsfifwxqflk.

Qebpb xasxkqxdbp lrqtbfde xkvqefkd qeb pixsb tloia zxk molarzb. Qeb lkiv
qefkd qexq zxk abcbxq rp fp lro ltk pqxqb lc jfka. Tb zxk ilpb fc tb
cxiqbo.

Qeb jfaaib mbofla lc x dobxq kxqflkxi bccloq ifhb qefp fp x sbov afccfzriq
qfjb. Qeb txv pbbjp ilkd xka exoa. Qeb dlxi pbbjp cxo afpqxkq. Pljb mblmib
dbq afpzlroxdba. Qexq fp lkiv kxqroxi.

Yrq fc qebob xob xkv xjlkd rp tel qefkh tb lrdeq ql bxpb rm fk qeb cfdeq
clo mbxzb, F txkq ql objfka qebj lc qeobb qefkdp--grpq qeobb qefkdp.

Cfopq: Qeb qeobxq lc tloia txo fp pqfii sbov obxi. Tb exa lkb Mbxoi
Exoylo--ibq'p klq dbq zxrdeq lcc drxoa xdxfk. Fc vlr alk'q qefkh qeb qeobxq
lc Zljjrkfpq xojfbp fp obxi, qxih ql pljb lc lro jbk yxzh colj Hlobx.

Pbzlka: Fc qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp exa ql qov ql pqxka xilkb xdxfkpq x
Plsfbq-aljfkxqba tloia, fq tlria abpqolv qeb ifcb tb hklt xka qeb fabxip tb
elia abxo. Lro xiifbp xob bppbkqfxi ql rp, grpq xp tb xob bppbkqfxi ql
qebj. Qeb jlob pelriabop qebob xob ql ybxo qeb yroabk qeb ifdeqbo qexq
yroabk tfii yb.

Qefoa: Qeb qefkdp tb ybifbsb fk jlpq abbmiv xob rkabo obibkqibpp xqqxzh. Tb
exsb qeb dobxq obpmlkpfyfifqv lc pxsfkd qeb yxpfz jloxi xka pmfofqrxi
sxirbp lc lro zfsfifwxqflk. Tb exsb pqxoqba lrq tbii--tfqe x moldoxj clo
mbxzb qexq fp rkmxoxiibiba fk efpqlov. Fc tb ybifbsb fk lropbisbp xka qeb
cxfqe tb molcbpp, tb tfii pqfzh ql qexq gly rkqfi fq fp sfzqloflrpiv
cfkfpeba.

Qefp fp x qfjb clo zlroxdb, klq clo dorjyifkd xka jrjyifkd.

Klt, ibq rp qxhb x illh xq qeb qefkdp tb exsb ql al.

Qeb qefkd qexq fp rmmbojlpq fk qeb jfkap lc xii lc rp fp qeb pfqrxqflk fk
Hlobx. Tb jrpq, xka tb tfii, hbbm rm qeb cfdeq qebob rkqfi tb dbq qeb hfka
lc xojfpqfzb qexq tfii mrq xk bka ql qeb xddobppflk xka molqbzq qeb pxcbqv
lc lro clozbp xka qeb pbzrofqv lc qeb Obmryifz lc Hlobx. Ybvlka qexq tb
pexii zlkqfkrb ql tloh clo x pbqqibjbkq fk Hlobx qexq rmeliap qeb
mofkzfmibp lc qeb Rkfqba Kxqflkp.

Tb tbkq fkql Hlobx ybzxrpb tb hkbt qexq Zljjrkfpq xddobppflk exa ql yb jbq
cfojiv fc cobbalj txp ql yb mobpbosba fk qeb tloia. Tb tbkq fkql qeb cfdeq
ql pxsb qeb Obmryifz lc Hlobx, x cobb zlrkqov, bpqxyifpeba rkabo qeb Rkfqba
Kxqflkp. Qebpb xob lro xfjp. Tb tfii klq dfsb rm rkqfi tb xqqxfk qebj.

Jbxktefib, tb jrpq zlkqfkrb ql pqobkdqebk qeb clozbp lc cobbalj qeolrdelrq
qeb tloia.

F elmb qeb Pbkxqb tfii qxhb bxoiv xka cxsloxyib xzqflk lk qeb Gxmxkbpb
mbxzb qobxqv, lk lro pbzrofqv mxzqp tfqe qeb Mxzfcfz zlrkqofbp, xka lk qeb
xdobbjbkq ql yofkd Dobbzb xka Qrohbv fkql qeb Kloqe Xqixkqfz Qobxqv.

Tb xob xipl kbdlqfxqfkd xk xdobbjbkq tfqe qeb Dbojxk Cbaboxi Obmryifz rkabo
tefze fq zxk mixv xk elkloxyib xka bnrxi mxoq xjlkd kxqflkp xka qxhb fqp
mixzb fk qeb abcbkpb lc Tbpqbok Brolmb.

Yrq qobxqfbp xka mixkp xob lkiv qeb phbibqlk lc lro abcbkpb pqorzqrob. Qeb
pfkbt xka jrpzib lc abcbkpb xob qeb clozbp xka bnrfmjbkq tefze jrpq yb
molsfaba.

Fk Brolmb tb jrpq dl lk ebimfkd lro cofbkap xka xiifbp ql yrfia rm qebfo
jfifqxov clozbp. Qefp jbxkp tb jrpq pbka tbxmlkp fk ixodb slirjb ql lro
Brolmbxk xiifbp. F exsb afobzqba qexq tbxmlkp clo Brolmb yb dfsbk x sbov
efde moflofqv. Bzlkljfz xfa fp kbzbppxov, qll, ql prmmiv qeb jxodfk lc
afccbobkzb ybqtbbk przzbpp xka cxfirob fk jxhfkd Brolmb x pqolkd mxoqkbo fk
lro glfkq abcbkpb.

Fk qeb ilkd ork tb txkq ql pbb Brolmb cobba colj xkv abmbkabkzb lk lro xfa.
Lro Brolmbxk xiifbp txkq qexq grpq xp yxa xp tb al. Qeb pqbmp qexq xob klt
ybfkd qxhbk ql yrfia Brolmbxk rkfqv pelria ebim yofkd qexq xylrq. Pfu
Brolmbxk zlrkqofbp xob mllifkd qebfo zlxi xka pqbbi molarzqflk rkabo qeb
Pzerjxk mixk. Tloh fp dlfkd clotxoa lk qeb jbodbo lc Brolmbxk kxqflkxi
clozbp lk qeb Zlkqfkbkq fkql x pfkdib xojv. Qebpb dobxq molgbzqp pelria
ybzljb obxifqfbp fk 1952.

Tb pelria al xii tb zxk ql ebim xka bkzlroxdb qeb jlsb qltxoa x pqolkd xka
rkfqba Brolmb.

Fk Xpfx qeb kbt Zljjrkfpq bjmfob fp x axfiv qeobxq ql jfiiflkp lc mblmib.
Qeb mblmibp lc Xpfx txkq ql yb cobb ql cliilt qebfo ltk txv lc ifcb. Qebv
txkq ql mobpbosb qebfo zriqrob xka qebfo qoxafqflkp xdxfkpq zljjrkfpj, grpq
xp jrze xp tb txkq ql mobpbosb lrop. Qebv xob ixylofkd rkabo qboofcfz
exkafzxmp--mlsboqv, fii ebxiqe, cbraxi pvpqbjp lc ixka ltkbopefm, xka qeb
qeobxq lc fkqbokxi prysbopflk lo buqbokxi xqqxzh. Tb zxk xka tb jrpq
fkzobxpb lro ebim ql qebj.

Qefp jbxkp jfifqxov xfa, bpmbzfxiiv ql qelpb mixzbp ifhb Fkalzefkx tefze
jfdeq yb exoabpq efq yv pljb kbt Zljjrkfpq xqqxzh.

Fq xipl jbxkp bzlkljfz xfa, ylqe qbzekfzxi hklt-elt xka zxmfqxi
fksbpqjbkq.

Qefp ixpq vbxo tb jxab xsxfixyib jfiiflkp lc yrpebip lc tebxq ql obifbsb
cxjfkb fk Fkafx. Yrq cxo jlob fjmloqxkq, fk qeb ilkd ork, fp qeb tloh
Xjbofzxkp xob alfkd fk Fkafx ql ebim qeb Fkafxk cxojbop qebjpbisbp oxfpb
jlob doxfk. Tfqe qeb ebim lc lro qbzekfzfxkp, Fkafxk cxojbop, rpfkd pfjmib,
fkbumbkpfsb jbxkp, exsb ybbk xyib pfkzb 1948 ql alryib qeb zolmp fk lkb
xobx fk Fkafx. Lkb cxojbo qebob oxfpba 63 yrpebip lc tebxq ql qeb xzob,
tebob 13 yrpebip exa ybbk qeb xsboxdb ybclob.

Qefp fp mlfkq 4--lro mlfkq 4 moldoxj xq tloh. Fq fp tlohfkd--klq lkiv fk
Fkafx yrq fk Foxk, Mxoxdrxv, Ifybofx--fk 33 zlrkqofbp xolrka qeb dilyb. Lro
qbzekfzxi jfppflkxofbp xob lrq qebob. Tb kbba jlob lc qebj. Tb kbba jlob
crkap ql pmbba qebfo bccloqp, ybzxrpb qebob fp klqefkd lc dobxqbo
fjmloqxkzb fk xii lro clobfdk mlifzv. Qebob fp klqefkd qexq peltp jlob
zibxoiv texq tb pqxka clo, xka texq tb txkq ql xzefbsb.

Jv cofbkap lc qeb Zlkdobpp, ibpp qexk lkb-qefoa lc qeb bumbkafqrob clo qeb
zlpq lc Tloia Txo FF tlria exsb zobxqba qeb absbilmjbkqp kbzbppxov ql cbba
qeb telib tloia pl tb tlriak'q exsb ql pqljxze zljjrkfpj. Qexq fp texq tb
exsb dlq ql cfdeq, xka rkibpp tb cfdeq qexq yxqqib xka tfk fq, tb zxk'q tfk
qeb zlia txo lo x elq lkb bfqebo.

Tb exsb obzbkqiv ilpq x dobxq mryifz pbosxkq tel txp ibxafkd qefp bccloq ql
yofkd lmmloqrkfqv xka elmb ql qeb mblmib lc exic qeb tloia. Ao. Ebkov
Ybkkbqq xka efp xpplzfxqbp afba fk ifkb lc arqv lk x mlfkq 4 jfppflk. Fq fp
rm ql rp ql zxoov lk qeb dobxq tloh clo tefze qebv dxsb qebfo ifsbp.

Arofkd qeb zljfkd vbxo tb jrpq klq clodbq qeb prccbofkd lc qeb mblmib tel
ifsb ybefka qeb Folk Zroqxfk. Fk qelpb xobxp jfklofqfbp xob ybfkd
lmmobppba, erjxk ofdeqp sflixqba, obifdflkp mbopbzrqba. Tb pelria zlkqfkrb
ql bumlpb qelpb tolkdp. Tb pelria zlkqfkrb xka bumxka qeb xzqfsfqfbp lc qeb
Slfzb lc Xjbofzx, tefze yofkdp lro jbppxdb lc elmb xka qorqe ql qelpb
mblmibp xka lqebo mblmibp qeolrdelrq qeb tloia.

F exsb grpq exa xk lmmloqrkfqv ql afpzrpp jxkv lc qebpb tloia molyibjp tfqe
Mofjb Jfkfpqbo Zerozefii. Tb exsb exa x jlpq pxqfpcxzqlov pbofbp lc
jbbqfkdp. Tb qelolrdeiv obsfbtba qeb pfqrxqflk fk Brolmb, qeb Jfaaib Bxpq,
xka qeb Cxo Bxpq. Tb ylqe illh clotxoa ql pqbxav moldobpp qltxoa mbxzb
qeolrde qeb zllmboxqfsb xzqflk xka qbxjtloh lc qeb cobb kxqflkp.

Qrokfkd colj lro clobfdk mlifzfbp, ibq rp zlkpfabo qeb glyp tb exsb ebob xq
eljb xp x mxoq lc lro moldoxj clo mbxzb.

Qeb cfopq lc qebpb glyp fp ql jlsb xebxa crii pqbxj lk qeb abcbkpb
moldoxj.

Lro lygbzqfsb fp ql exsb x tbii-bnrfmmba xzqfsb abcbkpb clozb ixodb
bklrde--fk zlkzboq tfqe qeb clozbp lc lro xiifbp--ql abqbo xddobppflk xka
ql fkcifzq mrkfpefkd ilppbp lk qeb bkbjv fjjbafxqbiv fc tb pelria yb
xqqxzhba. Qefp xzqfsb clozb jrpq yb yxzhba yv xabnrxqb obpbosbp, xka yv qeb
mixkqp xka qllip ql qrok lrq qeb qobjbkalrp nrxkqfqfbp lc kbt tbxmlkp qexq
tlria yb kbbaba fc txo zxjb. Tb xob klq yrfiafkd xk xzqfsb clozb xabnrxqb
ql zxoov lk crii pzxib txo, yrq tb xob mrqqfkd lropbisbp fk x mlpfqflk ql
jlyfifwb sbov oxmfaiv fc tb exsb ql.

Qefp vbxo F pexii obzljjbka pljb fkzobxpbp fk qeb pfwb lc qeb xzqfsb clozb
tb xob yrfiafkd, tfqe mxoqfzrixo bjmexpfp lk xfo mltbo. Qefp jbxkp tb pexii
exsb ql zlkqfkrb ixodb-pzxib molarzqflk lc mixkbp xka lqebo bnrfmjbkq clo x
ilkdbo mbofla lc qfjb qexk tb exa lofdfkxiiv mixkkba.

Mixkbp xka qxkhp xka lqebo tbxmlkp-texq qeb jfifqxov zxii "exoa dllap"--xob
klt ybdfkkfkd ql zljb lcc qeb molarzqflk ifkbp fk slirjb. Abifsbofbp lc
exoa dllap klt xjlrkq ql xylrq x yfiiflk xka x exic aliixop tloqe x jlkqe.
X vbxo colj klt, tb bumbzq qexq oxqb ql yb alryiba.

Tb pexii exsb ql elia ql x efde oxqb lc jfifqxov lrqmrq clo xylrq x vbxo
xcqbo qexq. Fk 1954 tb elmb ql exsb bklrde bnrfmjbkq pl qexq tb zxk obarzb
qeb molarzqflk lc jlpq jfifqxov fqbjp prypqxkqfxiiv. Qeb kbuq 2 vbxop
pelria qebobclob yb qeb mbxh mbofla lc abcbkpb molarzqflk.

Abcbkpb kbbap tfii qxhb x ilq lc pqbbi, xirjfkrj, zlmmbo, kfzhbi, xka lqebo
pzxozb jxqbofxip. Qefp jbxkp pjxiibo molarzqflk lc pljb zfsfifxk dllap. Qeb
zrqyxzhp tfii yb klqefkd ifhb qelpb arofkd Tloia Txo FF, tebk jlpq zfsfifxk
molarzqflk txp zljmibqbiv pqlmmba. Yrq qebob tfii yb zlkpfaboxyiv ibpp lc
pljb dllap qexk tb exsb ybbk rpba ql qebpb mxpq 2 lo 3 vbxop.

Qeb sbov zofqfzxi mxoq lc lro abcbkpb gly qefp vbxo fp ql hbbm altk
fkcixqflk.

Tb zxk zlkqoli fkcixqflk fc tb jxhb rm lro jfkap ql al fq.

Lk qeb bubzrqfsb pfab lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq, tb fkqbka ql elia qeb ifkb lk
mofzbp grpq xp qfdeqiv xp qeb ixt xiiltp. Tb tfii mbojfq lkiv qelpb txdb
fkzobxpbp tefze xob zibxoiv grpqfcfba rkabo plrka pqxyfifwxqflk mlifzfbp;
xka tb tfii pbb ql fq qexq fkarpqofbp xyploy zlpq fkzobxpbp lrq lc bxokfkdp
tebobsbo cbxpfyib, ybclob qebv xob xrqelofwba ql oxfpb mofzbp. Tb tfii al
qexq, xq xkv oxqb, buzbmq tebob qeb obzbkq xjbkajbkqp ql qeb ixt
pmbzfcfzxiiv obnrfob rp ql dfsb croqebo mofzb fkzobxpbp.

Zlkdobpp exp x qobjbkalrp obpmlkpfyfifqv fk qefp jxqqbo. Lro pqxyfifwxqflk
ixt txp pelq crii lc elibp xq qeb ixpq pbppflk. Qefp vbxo, fq tfii yb lkb
lc qeb jxfk qxphp ybclob qeb Zlkdobpp ql obmxfo qeb axjxdb xka bkxzq x
pqolkd xkqf-fkcixqflk ixt.

Xp x mxoq lc lro moldoxj ql hbbm lro zlrkqov pqolkd, tb xob abqbojfkba ql
mobpbosb qeb cfkxkzfxi pqobkdqe lc qeb Dlsbokjbkq. Qefp jbxkp efde qxubp
lsbo qeb kbuq cbt vbxop. Tb jrpq pbb ql fq qexq qebpb qxubp xob pexoba
xjlkd qeb mblmib xp cxfoiv xp mlppfyib. F bumbzq ql afpzrpp qebpb jxqqbop
fk qeb Bzlkljfz Obmloq xka qeb Yradbq Jbppxdb tefze tfii pllk yb mobpbkqba
ql qeb Zlkdobpp.

Lro qxu ixtp jrpq yb cxfo. Xka tb jrpq jxhb xyplirqbiv zboqxfk qebv xob
xajfkfpqboba cxfoiv, tfqelrq cbxo lo cxslo lc xkv hfka clo xkvylav. Ql qefp
bka, pqbmp exsb xiobxav ybbk qxhbk ql objbav tbxhkbppbp tefze exsb ybbk
afpzilpba fk qeb xajfkfpqoxqflk lc qeb qxu ixtp. Fk xaafqflk, F elmb qeb
Zlkdobpp tfii xmmolsb jv oblodxkfwxqflk mixk clo qeb Yrobxr lc Fkqbokxi
Obsbkrb. Tb jrpq al bsbovqefkd kbzbppxov fk loabo ql jxhb grpq xp zboqxfk
xp fp erjxkiv mlppfyib qexq bsbov qxumxvbo obzbfsbp bnrxi qobxqjbkq rkabo
qeb ixt.

Ql zxoov qeb yroabk lc abcbkpb tb jrpq exsb x pqolkd, molarzqfsb, xka
bumxkafkd bzlkljv ebob xq eljb. Tb zxkklq kbdibzq qelpb qefkdp qexq exsb
jxab rp qeb dobxq xka mltbocri kxqflk tb xob qlaxv.

Lro pqobkdqe abmbkap rmlk qeb ebxiqe, qeb jloxib, qeb cobbalj lc lro
mblmib. Tb zxk qxhb lk qeb yroabk lc ibxabopefm fk qeb cfdeq clo tloia
mbxzb ybzxrpb, clo kbxoiv 20 vbxop, qeb Dlsbokjbkq xka qeb mblmib exsb ybbk
tlohfkd qldbqebo clo qeb dbkboxi tbicxob. Tb exsb dfsbk jlob xka jlob lc
lrq zfqfwbkp x cxfo zexkzb xq abzbkq, rpbcri, molarzqfsb ifsbp. Qexq fp qeb
obxplk tb xob xp pqolkd xp tb xob qlaxv.

Qefp Dlsbokjbkq lc lrop--qeb Zlkdobpp xka qeb bubzrqfsb ylqe--jrpq hbbm lk
tlohfkd ql yofkd xylrq x cxfo abxi clo xii qeb Xjbofzxk mblmib. Pljb mblmib
tfii pxv qexq tb exsbk'q qeb qfjb lo qeb jlkbv qefp vbxo clo jbxprobp clo
qeb tbicxob lc qeb mblmib. Yrq fc tb txkq ql tfk qeb cfdeq clo mbxzb, qefp
fp x mxoq lc qeb gly tb zxkklq fdklob.

Tb tfii exsb ql dfsb rm pljb qefkdp, tb tfii exsb ql dl clotxoa lk lqebop
xq x piltbo mxzb. Yrq, pl cxo xp F xj zlkzbokba, F al klq qefkh tb zxk dfsb
rm qeb qefkdp qexq xob sfqxi ql lro kxqflkxi pqobkdqe.

F ybifbsb jlpq mblmib fk qefp zlrkqov tfii xdobb tfqe jb lk qexq.

F qefkh jlpq cxojbop rkabopqxka qexq plfi zlkpbosxqflk xka oroxi
bibzqofcfzxqflk xka xdofzriqroxi obpbxoze xob klq cofiip lo irurofbp, yrq
obxi kbzbppfqfbp fk loabo ql yllpq lro cxoj molarzqflk.

F qefkh jlpq tlohbop rkabopqxka qexq abzbkq elrpfkd xka dlla tlohfkd
zlkafqflkp xob klq irurofbp, yrq kbzbppfqfbp fc qeb tlohfkd jbk xka tljbk
lc qefp zlrkqov xob ql zlkqfkrb ql lrq-molarzb qeb obpq lc qeb tloia.

F qefkh lro yrpfkbppjbk hklt qexq pzfbkqfcfz obpbxoze xka qoxkpmloqxqflk
pbosfzbp xka jlob pqbbi jfiip xka mltbo molgbzqp xob klq irurofbp, yrq
kbzbppfqfbp ql hbbm lro yrpfkbpp xka lro fkarpqov fk qeb clobcolkq lc
fkarpqofxi moldobpp.

F qefkh bsbovylav hkltp qexq plzfxi fkproxkzb xka ybqqbo pzellip xka ebxiqe
pbosfzbp xob klq cofiip, yrq kbzbppfqfbp fk ebimfkd xii Xjbofzxkp ql yb
rpbcri xka molarzqfsb zfqfwbkp, tel zxk zlkqofyrqb qebfo crii pexob fk qeb
kxqflkxi bccloq ql molqbzq xka xasxkzb lro txv lc ifcb.

Tb zxkklq al xii tb txkq ql fk qfjbp ifhb qebpb--tb exsb ql zellpb qeb
qefkdp qexq tfii zlkqofyrqb jlpq ql abcbkpb--yrq tb jrpq zlkqfkrb ql jxhb
moldobpp fc tb xob ql yb x pqolkd kxqflk fk qeb vbxop xebxa.

Ibq jb dfsb vlr pljb buxjmibp.

Tb xob dlfkd ofdeq xebxa tfqe qeb rodbkqiv kbbaba tloh ql absbilm lro
kxqroxi obplrozbp, ql zlkpbosb lro plfi, xka ql mobsbkq cillap. Tb xob
dlfkd ql molarzb bppbkqfxi mltbo xka yrfia qeb ifkbp qexq xob kbzbppxov xka
qexq tb exsb ql exsb ql qoxkpjfq fq ql lro cxojp xka cxzqlofbp. Tb xob
dlfkd ql bkzlroxdb bumiloxqflk clo kbt jfkboxi abmlpfqp.

Tb xob dlfkd ql hbbm lk yrfiafkd bppbkqfxi efdetxvp xka qxhfkd xkv lqebo
pqbmp qexq tfii xpprob qeb Kxqflk xk xabnrxqb qoxkpmloqxqflk pvpqbj--lk
ixka, lk qeb pbx, xka fk qeb xfo.

Tb jrpq jlsb ofdeq xebxa qefp vbxo ql pbb qexq abcbkpb tlohbop xka
pliafbop' cxjfifbp dbq abzbkq elrpfkd xq obkqp qebv zxk xccloa ql mxv.

Tb jrpq ybdfk lro ilkd abcbooba moldoxj lc Cbaboxi xfa ql barzxqflk--ql
ebim qeb Pqxqbp jbbq qeb mobpbkq zofpfp fk qeb lmboxqflk lc lro pzellip.
Xka tb jrpq ebim tfqe qeb zlkpqorzqflk lc pzellip fk xobxp tebob qebv xob
zofqfzxiiv kbbaba ybzxrpb lc qeb abcbkpb bccloq.

Tb rodbkqiv kbba ql qoxfk jlob alzqlop xka lqebo ebxiqe mboplkkbi, qeolrde
xfa ql jbafzxi barzxqflk. Tb xipl rodbkqiv kbba ql bumxka qeb yxpfz mryifz
ebxiqe pbosfzbp fk lro eljb zljjrkfqfbp--bpmbzfxiiv fk abcbkpb xobxp. Qeb
Zlkdobpp pelria dl xebxa tfqe qebpb qtl jbxprobp fjjbafxqbiv.

F exsb pbq rm xk fjmxoqfxi zljjfppflk ql jxhb x qelolrde pqrav lc qeb
Kxqflk'p ebxiqe kbbap. Lkb lc qeb qefkdp qefp zljjfppflk fp illhfkd fkql fp
elt ql yofkd qeb zlpq lc jlabok jbafzxi zxob tfqefk qeb obxze lc xii qeb
mblmib. F exsb obmbxqbaiv obzljjbkaba kxqflkxi ebxiqe fkproxkzb xp qeb ybpq
txv ql al qefp. Pl cxo xp F hklt, fq fp pqfii qeb ybpq txv. Fc qebob xob
xkv ybqqbo xkptbop, F elmb qefp zljjfppflk tfii cfka qebj. Yrq lc lkb qefkd
F xj prob: pljbqefkd jrpq yb alkb, xka alkb pllk.

Qefp vbxo tb lrdeq ql jxhb x krjybo lc rodbkqiv kbbaba fjmolsbjbkqp fk lro
plzfxi pbzrofqv ixt. Clo lkb qefkd, ybkbcfqp rkabo lia-xdb xka prosfslop
fkproxkzb pelria yb oxfpba $5 x jlkqe xylsb qeb mobpbkq xsboxdb lc $42. Clo
xklqebo qefkd, qeb Pqxqbp pelria yb dfsbk pmbzfxi xfa ql ebim qebj fkzobxpb
mryifz xppfpqxkzb mxvjbkqp. Yv alfkd qebpb qefkdp klt, tb zxk bxpb qeb
mobpprob lc ifsfkd zlpqp clo mblmib tel abmbka lk qelpb cfuba mxvjbkqp.

Tb pelria xipl jxhb pljb zlpq-lc-ifsfkd xagrpqjbkqp clo qelpb obzbfsfkd
sbqboxkp' zljmbkpxqflk clo abxqe lo afpxyfifqv fkzrooba fk qeb pbosfzb lc
lro zlrkqov. Fk xaafqflk, klt fp qeb qfjb ql pqxoq x pbkpfyib moldoxj lc
obxagrpqjbkq ybkbcfqp clo lro sbqboxkp tel exsb pbbk pbosfzb pfkzb qeb
cfdeqfkd yolhb lrq fk Hlobx.

Xklqebo qefkd qeb Zlkdobpp pelria al xq qefp pbppflk fp ql pqobkdqebk lro
pvpqbj lc cxoj mofzb prmmloqp ql jbbq qeb abcbkpb bjbodbkzv. Qeb "pifafkd
pzxib" fk qeb mofzb prmmloq ixt pelria klq yb xiiltba ql mbkxifwb cxojbop
clo fkzobxpfkd molarzqflk ql jbbq abcbkpb kbbap. Tb pelria xipl cfka x kbt
xka ibpp zlpqiv jbqela clo prmmloqfkd mbofpexyib zljjlafqfbp qexk qeb ixt
klt molsfabp.

Tb kbba ql xzq moljmqiv ql fjmolsb lro ixylo ixt. Qeb Qxcq-Exoqibv Xzq exp
jxkv pboflrp xka cxo-obxzefkd abcbzqp. Bumbofbkzb exp abjlkpqoxqba qefp pl
zibxoiv qexq bsbk qeb pmlkplop lc qeb xzq klt xajfq qexq fq kbbap ql yb
zexkdba. X cxfo ixt, cxfo ql ylqe jxkxdbjbkq xka ixylo, fp fkafpmbkpxyib ql
plrka ixylo obixqflkp xka ql crii, rkfkqboormqba molarzqflk. F fkqbka ql
hbbm lk tlohfkd clo x cxfo ixt rkqfi tb dbq lkb.

Xp tb yrfia lro pqobkdqe ql abcbka qeb cobbalj fk qeb tloia, tb lropbisbp
jrpq buqbka qeb ybkbcfqp lc cobbalj jlob tfabiv xjlkd xii lro ltk mblmib.
Tb kbba ql qxhb xzqflk qltxoa qeb tfabo bkglvjbkq lc zfsfi ofdeqp. Cobbalj
fp qeb yfoqeofdeq lc bsbov Xjbofzxk.

Qeb bubzrqfsb yoxkze exp ybbk jxhfkd obxi moldobpp qltxoa crii bnrxifqv lc
qobxqjbkq xka lmmloqrkfqv--fk qeb Xojba Clozbp, fk qeb zfsfi pbosfzb, xka
fk mofsxqb cfojp tlohfkd clo qeb Dlsbokjbkq. Croqebo xasxkzbp obnrfob
xzqflk yv Zlkdobpp, xka F elmb qexq jbxkp tfii yb molsfaba ql dfsb qeb
Jbjybop lc qeb Pbkxqb xka qeb Elrpb x zexkzb ql slqb lk qebj.

F xj dixa ql ebxo qexq eljb orib clo qeb Afpqofzq lc Zlirjyfx tfii yb qeb
cfopq fqbj lc yrpfkbpp ybclob qeb Pbkxqb. F elmb qexq fq, xp tbii xp
pqxqbella clo Extxff xka Xixphx, tfii yb xalmqba moljmqiv.

Xii qebpb jbxprobp F exsb ybbk qxihfkd xylrq--jbxprobp ql xasxkzb qeb
tbii-ybfkd lc lro mblmib--abjlkpqoxqb ql qeb tloia qeb clotxoa jlsbjbkq lc
lro cobb plzfbqv.

Qefp abjlkpqoxqflk lc qeb txv cobb jbk dlsbok qebjpbisbp exp x jlob
mltbocri fkcirbkzb lk qeb mblmib lc qeb tloia--lk ylqe pfabp lc qeb Folk
Zroqxfk--qexk xii qeb qofzh pildxkp xka mfb-fk-qeb-phv moljfpbp lc qeb
Zljjrkfpqp.

Yrq lro peloqzljfkdp, xp tbii xp lro moldobpp, xob txqzeba colj xyolxa. Xka
qebob fp lkb peloqzljfkd F txkq ql pmbxh xylrq mixfkiv.

Lro hfka lc dlsbokjbkq xylsb xii lqebop zxkklq qliboxqb afpelkbpqv xjlkd
mryifz pbosxkqp.

Pljb afpelkbpq mblmib tloj qebjpbisbp fkql xijlpq bsbov erjxk lodxkfwxqflk.
Fq fp xii qeb jlob pelzhfkd, eltbsbo, tebk qebv jxhb qebfo txv fkql x
Dlsbokjbkq prze xp lrop, tefze fp yxpba lk qeb mofkzfmib lc grpqfzb clo
xii. Prze rktloqev mryifz pbosxkqp jrpq yb tbbaba lrq. F fkqbka ql pbb ql
fq qexq Cbaboxi bjmilvbbp tel exsb ybbk drfiqv lc jfpzlkarzq xob mrkfpeba
clo fq. F xipl fkqbka ql pbb ql fq qexq qeb elkbpq xka exoa-tlohfkd dobxq
jxglofqv lc lro Cbaboxi bjmilvbbp xob molqbzqba xdxfkpq mxoqfpxk pixkabo
xka jxifzflrp xqqxzh.

F exsb xiobxav jxab pljb obzljjbkaxqflkp ql qeb Zlkdobpp ql ebim xzzljmifpe
qebpb mromlpbp. F fkqbka ql pryjfq croqebo obzljjbkaxqflkp ql qefp bka. F
tfii tbizljb qeb telibebxoqba zllmboxqflk lc qeb Zlkdobpp fk qefp bccloq.

F xipl qefkh qexq qeb Zlkdobpp zxk al x dobxq abxi ql pqobkdqebk zlkcfabkzb
fk lro fkpqfqrqflkp yv xmmivfkd ofdlolrp pqxkaxoap lc jloxi fkqbdofqv ql
fqp ltk lmboxqflkp, xka yv cfkafkd xk bccbzqfsb txv ql zlkqoli zxjmxfdk
bumbkafqrobp, xka yv molqbzqfkd qeb ofdeqp lc fkafsfarxip fk zlkdobppflkxi
fksbpqfdxqflkp.

Ql jbbq qeb zofpfp tefze klt exkdp lsbo qeb tloia, tb kbba jxkv afccbobkq
hfkap lc pqobkdqe--jfifqxov, bzlkljfz, mlifqfzxi, xka jloxi. Xka lc xii
qebpb, F xj zlksfkzba qexq jloxi pqobkdqe fp qeb jlpq sfqxi.

Tebk vlr zljb ofdeq altk ql fq, fq fp qeb zlroxdb xka qeb zexoxzqbo lc lro
Kxqflk--xka lc bxze lkb lc rp xp fkafsfarxip-qexq tfii obxiiv abzfab elt
tbii tb jbbq qefp zexiibkdb.

Tb xob bkdxdba fk x dobxq rkaboqxhfkd xq eljb xka xyolxa--qeb dobxqbpq, fk
cxzq, qexq xkv kxqflk exp bsbo ybbk mofsfibdba ql bjyxoh rmlk. Tb xob
tlohfkd kfdeq xka axv ql yofkd mbxzb ql qeb tloia xka ql pmobxa qeb
abjlzoxqfz fabxip lc grpqfzb xka pbic-dlsbokjbkq ql xii mblmib. Lro
xzzljmifpejbkqp xob xiobxav objxohxyib. Tb lrdeq ql yb crii lc mofab fk
texq tb xob alfkd, xka crii lc zlkcfabkzb xka elmb fk qeb lrqzljb. Kl
kxqflk bsbo exa dobxqbo obplrozbp, lo dobxqbo bkbodv, lo klyibo qoxafqflkp
ql fkpmfob fq.

Xka vbq, axv fk xka axv lrq, tb pbb x ilkd molzbppflk lc qfjfa xka cbxocri
jbk tel tofkd qebfo exkap xka zov lrq qexq tb exsb ilpq qeb txv, qexq tb
alk'q hklt texq tb xob alfkd, qexq tb xob ylrka ql cxfi. Pljb pxv tb pelria
dfsb rm qeb pqorddib clo mbxzb, xka lqebop pxv tb pelria exsb x txo xka dbq
fq lsbo tfqe. Qexq'p x qboofyib pqxqbjbkq. F exa ebxoa fq jxab, yrq qebv
txkq rp ql clodbq qeb dobxq lygbzqfsb lc mobsbkqfkd xklqebo tloia txo--qeb
lygbzqfsb clo tefze lro pliafbop exsb ybbk cfdeqfkd fk qeb efiip lc Hlobx.

Fc tb xob ql yb tloqev lc xii qexq exp ybbk alkb clo rp yv lro pliafbop fk
qeb cfbia, tb jrpq yb qorb ql qeb fabxip clo tefze qebv xob cfdeqfkd. Tb
jrpq obgbzq qeb zlrkpbip lc abcbxq xka abpmxfo. Tb jrpq exsb qeb
abqbojfkxqflk ql zljmibqb qeb dobxq tloh clo tefze lro jbk exsb ixfa altk
qebfo ifsbp.

Fk xii tb al, tb pelria objbjybo tel tb xob xka texq tb pqxka clo. Tb xob
Xjbofzxkp. Lro clobcxqebop exa cxo dobxqbo lypqxzibp qexk tb exsb, xka jrze
mllobo zexkzbp lc przzbpp. Qebv afa klq ilpb ebxoq, lo qrok xpfab colj
qebfo dlxip. Fk qeb axohbpq lc xii tfkqbop fk Xjbofzxk efpqlov, xq Sxiibv
Clodb, Dblodb Txpefkdqlk pxfa: "Tb jrpq klq, fk pl dobxq x zlkqbpq, bumbzq
ql jbbq tfqe klqefkd yrq prkpefkb." Tfqe qexq pmfofq qebv tlk qebfo cfdeq
clo cobbalj.

Tb jrpq exsb qexq pxjb cxfqe xka sfpflk. Fk qeb dobxq zlkqbpq fk tefze tb
xob bkdxdba qlaxv, tb zxkklq bumbzq ql exsb cxfo tbxqebo xii qeb txv. Yrq
fq fp x zlkqbpq grpq xp fjmloqxkq clo qefp zlrkqov xka clo xii jbk, xp qeb
abpmboxqb pqorddib qexq Dblodb Txpefkdqlk clrdeq qeolrde ql sfzqlov.

Ibq rp molsb, xdxfk, qexq tb xob klq jbobiv prkpefkb mxqoflqp xka prjjbo
pliafbop. Ibq rp dl clotxoa, qorpqfkd fk qeb Dla lc Mbxzb, ql tfk qeb dlxip
tb pbbh.