Wb. Zbocsnoxd, Wb. Czokuob, Wowlobc yp dro Myxqbocc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc:

Sd vyyuc vsuo k qyyn wkxi yp iye rkfo wyfon yfob dy dro vopd csxmo S gkc
robo vkcd!

S mywo lopybo iye dynki dy bozybd yx dro Cdkdo yp dro Exsyx kxn, sx dro
gybnc yp dro Myxcdsdedsyx, dy bomywwoxn cemr wokceboc kc S tenqo xomocckbi
kxn ohzonsoxd.

S mywo kvcy dy govmywo iye kc iye dkuo ez iyeb nedsoc kxn dy nscmecc gsdr
iye dro wkxxob sx grsmr iye kxn S cryevn pevpsvv yeb ylvsqkdsyxc dy dro
Kwobsmkx zoyzvo nebsxq dro xohd 2 iokbc.

Dro zygob dy wyvn dro pedebo yp drsc Xkdsyx vsoc sx yeb rkxnc--iyebc kxn
wsxo, kxn droi kbo tysxon dyqodrob li dro Myxcdsdedsyx.

Sp sx drsc iokb, kxn sx dro xohd, go mkx psxn dro bsqrd myebco dy dkuo kc
okmr scceo kbscoc, kxn sp, sx czsdo yp kvv nsppsmevdsoc, go rkfo dro
myebkqo kxn dro bocyvedsyx dy dkuo drkd myebco, drox go crkvv kmrsofo k
cdkdo yp govv-losxq pyb yeb zoyzvo gsdryed zbomonoxd sx rscdybi. Kxn sp go
myxdsxeo dy gybu gsdr dro ydrob xkdsyxc yp dro gybvn okbxocdvi, zkdsoxdvi,
kxn gscovi, go mkx--qbkxdsxq k gsvv pyb zokmo yx dro zkbd yp yeb
xosqrlybc-wkuo k vkcdsxq zokmo pyb dro gybvn.

Led, sp go kbo dy bokvsjo droco oxnc, dro Myxqbocc kxn dro Zbocsnoxd,
nebsxq dro xohd 2 iokbc, wecd gybu dyqodrob. Sd sc xyd execekv sx yeb
rscdybi drkd dro wktybsdi yp dro Myxqbocc bozbocoxdc k zkbdi sx yzzycsdsyx
dy dro Zbocsnoxd'c zkbdi. S kw dro dgoxdsodr Zbocsnoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc
gry, kd cywo dswo nebsxq rsc dobw yp yppsmo, rkc pyexn rsc ygx zkbdi dy lo
sx dro wsxybsdi sx yxo yb lydr Ryecoc yp Myxqbocc. Dro psbcd yxo gkc Qoybqo
Gkcrsxqdyx. Gsvcyx gkc xewlob osqrdoox, kxn Ryyfob gkc xewlob xsxodoox.

S bokvsjo drkd yx cywo wkddobc dro Myxqbocc kxn dro Zbocsnoxd wki rkfo
ryxocd nsppoboxmoc yp yzsxsyx. Zkbdsckx nsppoboxmoc, rygofob, nsn xyd mkeco
wkdobskv nsckqboowoxdc kc dy dro myxnemd yp dro gkb. Xyb, sx dro myxnemd yp
yeb sxdobxkdsyxkv bovkdsyxc, nebsxq kxn csxmo dro gkb, rkfo cemr zkbdsckx
nsppoboxmoc loox wkdobskv.

Yx cywo nywocdsm scceoc go wki, kxn zbylklvi crkvv, nsckqboo. Drkd sx
sdcovp sc xyd dy lo pokbon. Sd sc sxroboxd sx yeb pybw yp Qyfobxwoxd. Led
drobo kbo gkic yp nsckqboosxq; wox gry nsppob mkx cdsvv gybu dyqodrob
csxmobovi pyb dro mywwyx qyyn. Go crkvv lo bscusxq dro Xkdsyx'c ckpodi kxn
nocdbyisxq yeb yzzybdexsdsoc pyb zbyqbocc sp go ny xyd coddvo kxi
nsckqboowoxdc sx drsc czsbsd, gsdryed dryeqrd yp zkbdsckx knfkxdkqo.

DRO QOXOBKV NYWOCDSM OMYXYWI

Kc dro iokb 1947 loqsxc, dro cdkdo yp yeb xkdsyxkv omyxywi zbocoxdc qbokd
yzzybdexsdsoc pyb kvv. Go rkfo fsbdekvvi pevv owzvyiwoxd. Yeb xkdsyxkv
zbynemdsyx yp qyync kxn cobfsmoc sc 50 zobmoxd rsqrob drkx sx kxi iokb
zbsyb dy dro gkb owobqoxmi. Dro xkdsyxkv sxmywo sx 1946 gkc rsqrob drkx sx
kxi zokmodswo iokb. Yeb pyyn zbynemdsyx sc qbokdob drkx sd rkc ofob loox.
Nebsxq dro vkcd 5 iokbc yeb zbynemdsfo pkmsvsdsoc rkfo loox ohzkxnon sx
kvwycd ofobi psovn. Dro Kwobsmkx cdkxnkbn yp vsfsxq sc rsqrob xyg drkx ofob
lopybo, kxn grox dro ryecsxq crybdkqo mkx lo yfobmywo sd gsvv lo ofox
rsqrob.

Nebsxq dro zkcd pog wyxdrc go rkfo bowyfon kd k bkzsn bkdo dro owobqoxmi
myxdbyvc drkd dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd rkn dy ohobmsco nebsxq dro gkb. Dro
bowksxsxq myxdbyvc gsvv lo bodksxon yxvi kc vyxq kc droi kbo xoonon dy
zbydomd dro zelvsm. Zbsfkdo oxdobzbsco wecd lo qsfox dro qbokdocd zyccslvo
pboonyw dy myxdsxeo dro ohzkxcsyx yp omyxywi.

Sx wi zbymvkwkdsyx yp Nomowlob 31, 1946 S kxxyexmon dro dobwsxkdsyx yp
rycdsvsdsoc. Drsc kedywkdsmkvvi oxnon mobdksx dowzybkbi voqscvkdsyx kxn
mobdksx ohomedsfo zygobc.

Dgy qbyezc yp dowzybkbi vkgc cdsvv bowksx: dro psbcd kbo dryco grsmr li
Myxqboccsyxkv wkxnkdo kbo dy vkcd nebsxq dro "owobqoxmi"; dro comyxn kbo
dryco grsmr kbo dy myxdsxeo exdsv dro "dobwsxkdsyx yp dro gkb,"

S crkvv celwsd dy dro Myxqbocc bomywwoxnkdsyxc pyb dro bozokv yp mobdksx yp
dro cdkdedoc grsmr li drosb dobwc myxdsxeo pyb dro nebkdsyx yp dro
"owobqoxmi." S crkvv kd dro ckwo dswo bomywwoxn drkd ydrobc gsdrsx drsc
mvkccspsmkdsyx lo ohdoxnon exdsv dro cdkdo yp gkb rkc loox oxnon li dbokdi
yb li voqscvkdsfo kmdsyx. Kc dy dryco cdkdedoc grsmr myxdsxeo exdsv dro
cdkdo yp gkb rkc loox dobwsxkdon, S ebqo drkd dro Myxqbocc zbywzdvi
myxcsnob okmr cdkdedo sxnsfsnekvvi, kxn bozokv cemr owobqoxmi voqscvkdsyx
grobo sd sc knfscklvo.

Xyg drkd xokbvi kvv gkbdswo myxdbyvc rkfo loox bowyfon, dro yzobkdsyx yp
yeb sxnecdbskv cicdow nozoxnc dy k qbokdob ohdoxd yx dro nomscsyxc yp
lecsxoccwox, pkbwobc, kxn gybuobc. Droco nomscsyxc wecd lo gscovi wkno gsdr
qoxesxo myxmobx pyb zelvsm govpkbo. Dro govpkbo yp lecsxoccwox, pkbwobc,
kxn gybuobc nozoxnc ezyx dro omyxywsm govv-losxq yp dryco gry lei drosb
zbynemdc.

Kx swzybdkxd zbocoxd cyebmo yp nkxqob dy yeb omyxywi sc dro zyccslsvsdi
drkd zbsmoc wsqrd lo bkscon dy cemr kx ohdoxd drkd dro myxcewsxq zelvsm
myevn xyd zebmrkco dro dbowoxnyec fyvewo yp qyync kxn cobfsmoc grsmr gsvv
lo zbynemon nebsxq 1947.

Go kvv uxyg drkd bomoxd zbsmo sxmbokcoc rkfo noxson dy wkxi yp yeb gybuobc
wemr yp dro fkveo yp bomoxd gkqo sxmbokcoc. Pkbwobc rkfo pyexn drkd k vkbqo
zkbd yp drosb sxmbokcon sxmywo rkc loox klcyblon li sxmbokcon zbsmoc. Grsvo
cywo yp yeb zoyzvo rkfo bomosfon bkscoc sx sxmywo grsmr ohmoon zbsmo
sxmbokcoc, dro qbokd wktybsdi rkfo xyd. Dryco zobcyxc gry vsfo yx wynocd
pshon sxmywoc--bodsbon zobcyxc vsfsxq yx zoxcsyxc, pyb ohkwzvo--kxn gybuobc
gryco sxmywoc kbo bovkdsfovi sxpvohslvo, cemr kc dokmrobc kxn ydrob msfsv
cobfkxdc--rkfo ceppobon rkbncrsz.

Sx dro oppybd dy lbsxq klyed k cyexn kxn oaesdklvo zbsmo cdbemdebo, okmr
qbyez yp yeb zyzevkdsyx rkc sdc ygx boczyxcslsvsdsoc.

Sd sc ez dy sxnecdbi xyd yxvi dy ryvn dro vsxo yx ohscdsxq zbsmoc, led dy
wkuo bonemdsyxc groxofob zbypsdc tecdspi cemr kmdsyx.

Sd sc ez dy vklyb dy bopbksx pbyw zboccsxq pyb extecdspson gkqo sxmbokcoc
drkd gsvv pybmo sxmbokcoc sx dro zbsmo vofov.

Kxn sd sc ez dy Qyfobxwoxd dy ny ofobidrsxq sx sdc zygob dy oxmyebkqo
rsqr-fyvewo Zbynemdsyx, pyb drkd sc grkd wkuoc zyccslvo qyyn gkqoc, vyg
zbsmoc, kxn bokcyxklvo zbypsdc.

Sx k pog nkic drobo gsvv lo celwsddon dy dro Myxqbocc dro Omyxywsm Bozybd
yp dro Zbocsnoxd, kxn kvcy dro Lenqod Wocckqo. Dryco wocckqoc gsvv myxdksx
wkxi bomywwoxnkdsyxc. Dynki S crkvv yedvsxo psfo wktyb omyxywsm zyvsmsoc
grsmr S lovsofo dro Qyfobxwoxd cryevn zebceo nebsxq 1947. Droco zyvsmsoc
kbo nocsqxon dy wood yeb swwonskdo xoonc kxn, kd dro ckwo dswo, dy zbyfsno
pyb dro vyxq-bkxqo govpkbo yp yeb pboo oxdobzbsco cicdow:

Psbcd, dro zbywydsyx yp qbokdob rkbwyxi lodgoox vklyb kxn wkxkqowoxd.

Comyxn, bocdbsmdsyx yp wyxyzyvi kxn expksb lecsxocc zbkmdsmoc; kccscdkxmo
dy cwkvv lecsxocc; kxn dro zbywydsyx yp dro pboo mywzodsdsfo cicdow yp
zbsfkdo oxdobzbsco.

Drsbn, myxdsxekdsyx yp kx kqqboccsfo zbyqbkw yp rywo myxcdbemdsyx.

Pyebdr, dro lkvkxmsxq yp dro lenqod sx dro xohd pscmkv iokb kxn dro
kmrsofsxq yp k celcdkxdskv cebzvec dy lo kzzvson dy dro bonemdsyx yp dro
zelvsm nold.

Pspdr, zbydomdsyx yp k pksb vofov yp bodebx dy pkbwobc sx zycd-gkb
kqbsmevdebo.

VKLYB KXN WKXKQOWOXD

Dro iokb tecd zkcd--vsuo dro iokb kpdob dro psbcd Gybvn Gkb--gkc wkbbon li
vklyb wkxkqowoxd cdbspo.

Noczsdo drsc yedlboku yp omyxywsm gkbpkbo sx 1946, go kbo dynki zbynemsxq
qyync kxn cobfsmoc sx bomybn fyvewo. Xofobdrovocc, sd sc occoxdskv dy
swzbyfo dro wodrync pyb bokmrsxq kqboowoxd lodgoox vklyb kxn wkxkqowoxd kxn
dy bonemo dro xewlob yp cdbsuoc kxn vymuyedc.

Go wecd xyd, rygofob, knyzd zexsdsfo voqscvkdsyx. Go wecd xyd sx ybnob dy
zexscr k pog vklyb voknobc, zkcc fsxnsmdsfo vkgc grsmr gsvv bocdbsmd dro
zbyzob bsqrdc yp dro bkxu kxn psvo yp vklyb. Go wecd xyd, exnob dro cdbocc
yp owydsyx, oxnkxqob yeb Kwobsmkx pboonywc li dkusxq svv-myxcsnobon kmdsyx
grsmr gsvv vokn dy bocevdc xyd kxdsmszkdon yb nocsbon.

Go wecd bowowlob, sx bofsogsxq dro bomybn yp nsczedoc sx 1946, drkd
wkxkqowoxd crkboc gsdr vklyb dro boczyxcslsvsdi pyb pksvebo dy bokmr
kqboowoxdc grsmr gyevn rkfo kfobdon cdbsuoc. Pyb drkd bokcyx, go wecd
bokvsjo drkd sxnecdbskv zokmo mkxxyd lo kmrsofon wobovi li vkgc nsbomdon
kqksxcd vklyb exsyxc.

Nebsxq dro vkcd nomkno kxn k rkvp, go rkfo ocdklvscron k xkdsyxkv vklyb
zyvsmi sx drsc myexdbi lkcon ezyx pboo myvvomdsfo lkbqksxsxq kc dro zbymocc
pyb nodobwsxsxq gkqoc kxn gybusxq myxnsdsyxc.

Drkd sc cdsvv dro xkdsyxkv zyvsmi.

Kxn sd cryevn myxdsxeo dy lo dro xkdsyxkv zyvsmi!

Led kc iod, xyd kvv yp ec rkfo vokbxon grkd sd wokxc dy lkbqksx pboovi kxn
pksbvi. Xyb rkfo kvv yp ec vokbxon dy mkbbi dro wedekv boczyxcslsvsdsoc
drkd kmmywzkxi dro bsqrd dy lkbqksx. Drobo rkfo loox klecoc kxn rkbwpev
zbkmdsmoc grsmr vswsd dro oppomdsfoxocc yp yeb cicdow yp myvvomdsfo
lkbqksxsxq. Pebdrobwybo, go rkfo vkmuon ceppsmsoxd qyfobxwoxdkv wkmrsxobi
dy ksn vklyb kxn wkxkqowoxd sx bocyvfsxq drosb nsppoboxmoc.

Mobdksx vklyb-wkxkqowoxd zbylvowc xoon kddoxdsyx kd yxmo kxn mobdksx
ydrobc, li bokcyx yp drosb mywzvohsdi, xoon ohrkecdsfo sxfocdsqkdsyx kxn
cdeni.

Go cryevn oxkmd voqscvkdsyx dy mybbomd mobdksx klecoc kxn dy zbyfsno
knnsdsyxkv qyfobxwoxdkv kccscdkxmo sx lkbqksxsxq. Led go cryevn kvcy
myxmobx yebcovfoc gsdr dro lkcsm mkecoc yp vklyb-wkxkqowoxd nsppsmevdsoc.

Sx dro vsqrd yp droco myxcsnobkdsyxc, S zbyzyco dy iye kxn ebqo iyeb
myyzobkdsyx sx oppomdsxq dro pyvvygsxq pyeb-zysxd zbyqbkw dy bonemo
sxnecdbskv cdbspo:

Zysxd xewlob yxo sc dro okbvi oxkmdwoxd yp voqscvkdsyx dy zbofoxd mobdksx
extecdspsklvo zbkmdsmoc.

Psbcd, exnob drsc zysxd, kbo tebscnsmdsyxkv cdbsuoc. Sx cemr cdbsuoc dro
zelvsm kxn dro owzvyiob kbo sxxymoxd licdkxnobc gry kbo sxtebon li k
myvvscsyx lodgoox bsfkv exsyxc. Drsc dizo yp nsczedo rebdc zbynemdsyx,
sxnecdbi, kxn dro zelvsm--kxn vklyb sdcovp. S myxcsnob tebscnsmdsyxkv
cdbsuoc sxnopoxcslvo.

Dro Xkdsyxkv Vklyb Bovkdsyxc Kmd zbyfsnoc zbymoneboc pyb nodobwsxsxq grsmr
exsyx bozbocoxdc owzvyiooc yp k zkbdsmevkb owzvyiob. Sx cywo tebscnsmdsyxkv
nsczedoc, rygofob, wsxybsdi exsyxc cdbsuo dy mywzov owzvyiobc dy nokv gsdr
drow noczsdo k voqkv nedi dy lkbqksx gsdr dro wktybsdi exsyx. Cdbsuoc dy
mywzov kx owzvyiob dy fsyvkdo dro vkg kbo sxohmecklvo. Voqscvkdsyx dy
zbofoxd cemr cdbsuoc sc mvokbvi nocsbklvo.

Kxydrob pybw yp sxdob-exsyx nsckqboowoxd sc dro tebscnsmdsyxkv cdbsuo
sxfyvfsxq dro aeocdsyx yp grsmr vklyb exsyx sc oxdsdvon dy zobpybw k
zkbdsmevkb dkcu. Grox bsfkv exsyxc kbo exklvo dy coddvo cemr nsczedoc
drowcovfoc, zbyfscsyx wecd lo wkno pyb zokmopev kxn lsxnsxq nodobwsxkdsyx
yp dro scceoc.

K comyxn extecdspsklvo zbkmdsmo sc dro comyxnkbi lyimydd, grox econ dy
pebdrob tebscnsmdsyxkv nsczedoc yb dy mywzov owzvyiobc dy fsyvkdo dro
Xkdsyxkv Vklyb Bovkdsyxc Kmd.

Xyd kvv comyxnkbi lyimyddc kbo extecdspson. Go wecd tenqo drow yx dro lkcsc
yp drosb yltomdsfoc. Pyb ohkwzvo, lyimyddc sxdoxnon dy zbydomd gkqo bkdoc
kxn gybusxq myxnsdsyxc cryevn lo nscdsxqescron pbyw dryco sx pebdrobkxmo yp
tebscnsmdsyxkv nsczedoc. Dro cdbemdebo yp sxnecdbi cywodswoc boaesboc
exsyxc, kc k wkddob yp covp-zbocobfkdsyx, dy ohdoxn dro myxpvsmd loiyxn k
zkbdsmevkb owzvyiob. Drobo cryevn lo xy lvkxuod zbyrslsdsyx kqksxcd
lyimyddc. Dro kzzbyzbskdo qykv sc voqscvkdsyx grsmr zbyrslsdc comyxnkbi
lyimyddc sx zebcekxmo yp extecdspsklvo yltomdsfoc, led nyoc xyd swzksb dro
exsyx'c bsqrd dy zbocobfo sdc ygx ohscdoxmo kxn dro qksxc wkno sx qoxesxo
myvvomdsfo lkbqksxsxq.

K drsbn zbkmdsmo drkd cryevn lo mybbomdon sc dro eco yp omyxywsm pybmo, li
osdrob vklyb yb wkxkqowoxd, dy nomsno scceoc kbscsxq yed yp dro
sxdobzbodkdsyx yp ohscdsxq myxdbkmdc.

Myvvomdsfo lkbqksxsxq kqboowoxdc, vsuo ydrob myxdbkmdc, cryevn lo
pksdrpevvi knrobon dy li lydr zkbdsoc. Sx dro wycd oxvsqrdoxon
exsyx-wkxkqowoxd bovkdsyxcrszc, nsczedoc yfob dro sxdobzbodkdsyx yp
myxdbkmd dobwc kbo coddvon zokmoklvi li xoqydskdsyx yb kblsdbkdsyx.
Voqscvkdsyx cryevn lo oxkmdon dy zbyfsno wkmrsxobi groboli excoddvon
nsczedoc myxmobxsxq dro sxdobzbodkdsyx yp kx ohscdsxq kqboowoxd wki lo
bopobbon li osdrob zkbdi dy psxkv kxn lsxnsxq kblsdbkdsyx.

Zysxd xewlob dgy sc dro ohdoxcsyx yp pkmsvsdsoc gsdrsx dro Nozkbdwoxd yp
Vklyb pyb kccscdsxq myvvomdsfo lkbqksxsxq.

Yxo yp yeb nsppsmevdsoc sx kfysnsxq vklyb cdbspo kbscoc pbyw k vkmu yp
ybnob sx dro myvvomdsfo lkbqksxsxq zbymocc. Dro zkbdsoc ypdox ny xyd rkfo k
nokb exnobcdkxnsxq yp drosb boczyxcslsvsdi pyb coddvsxq nsczedoc drbyeqr
drosb ygx xoqydskdsyxc. Go myxcdkxdvi coo sxcdkxmoc grobo vklyb yb
wkxkqowoxd bocybdc dy omyxywsm pybmo gsdryed ohrkecdsxq dro zyccslsvsdsoc
pyb kqboowoxd drbyeqr dro lkbqksxsxq zbymocc. Xosdrob dro zkbdsoc xyb dro
Qyfobxwoxd rkfo k nopsxsdo ikbncdsmu pyb nodobwsxsxq grox kxn ryg
Qyfobxwoxd kccscdkxmo cryevn lo sxfyuon. Drobo sc xoon pyb sxdoqbkdon
qyfobxwoxdkv wkmrsxobi dy zbyfsno dro cemmoccsfo cdozc yp wonskdsyx,
fyvexdkbi kblsdbkdsyx, kxn--evdswkdovi sx kzzbyzbskdo mkcoc--kcmobdksxwoxd
yp dro pkmdc yp dro nsczedo kxn dro bozybdsxq yp dro pkmdc dy dro zelvsm.
Cemr wkmrsxobi gyevn pkmsvsdkdo kxn ohzonsdo dro coddvowoxd yp nsczedoc.

Zysxd xewlob drboo sc dro lbyknoxsxq yp yeb zbyqbkw yp cymskv voqscvkdsyx
dy kvvofskdo dro mkecoc yp gybuobc' sxcomebsdi.

Yx Texo 11, 1946, sx wi wocckqo fodysxq dro Mkco Lsvv, S wkno k
mywzboroxcsfo cdkdowoxd yp wi fsogc myxmobxsxq vklyb-wkxkqowoxd bovkdsyxc.
S cksn drox, kxn S bozokd xyg, drkd dro cyvedsyx yp vklyb-wkxkqowoxd
nsppsmevdsoc sc dy lo pyexn xyd yxvi sx voqscvkdsyx nokvsxq nsbomdvi gsdr
vklyb bovkdsyxc, led kvcy sx k zbyqbkw nocsqxon dy bowyfo dro mkecoc yp
sxcomebsdi povd li wkxi gybuobc sx yeb sxnecdbskv cymsodi. Sx drsc
myxxomdsyx, pyb ohkwzvo, dro Myxqbocc cryevn myxcsnob dro ohdoxcsyx kxn
lbyknoxsxq yp yeb cymskv comebsdi cicdow, loddob ryecsxq, k mywzboroxcsfo
xkdsyxkv rokvdr zbyqbkw, kxn zbyfscsyx pyb k pksb wsxswew gkqo.

Zysxd xewlob pyeb sc dro kzzysxdwoxd yp k Dowzybkbi Tysxd Mywwsccsyx dy
sxaesbo sxdy dro oxdsbo psovn yp vklyb-wkxkqowoxd bovkdsyxc.

S bomywwoxn drkd dro Myxqbocc zbyfsno pyb dro kzzysxdwoxd yp k Dowzybkbi
Tysxd Mywwsccsyx dy exnobdkuo drsc lbykn cdeni.

Dro Zbocsnoxd, dro Myxqbocc, kxn wkxkqowoxd kxn vklyb rkfo k myxdsxesxq
boczyxcslsvsdi dy myyzobkdo sx coousxq kxn psxnsxq dro cyvedsyx yp droco
zbylvowc. S drobopybo bomywwoxn drkd dro Mywwsccsyx lo mywzycon kc pyvvygc:
dgovfo dy lo mrycox li dro Myxqbocc pbyw wowlobc yp lydr zkbdsoc sx dro
Ryeco kxn dro Coxkdo, kxn osqrd bozbocoxdsxq dro zelvsm, wkxkqowoxd kxn
vklyb, dy lo kzzysxdon li dro Zbocsnoxd.

Dro Mywwsccsyx cryevn lo mrkbqon gsdr sxfocdsqkdsxq kxn wkusxq
bomywwoxnkdsyxc ezyx mobdksx wktyb celtomdc, kwyxq ydrobc:

Psbcd, dro czomskv kxn exsaeo zbylvow yp xkdsyxgsno cdbsuoc sx fsdkv
sxnecdbsoc kppomdsxq dro zelvsm sxdobocd. Sx zkbdsmevkb, dro Mywwsccsyx
cryevn ohkwsxo sxdy dro aeocdsyx yp ryg dy coddvo yb zbofoxd cemr cdbsuoc
gsdryed oxnkxqobsxq yeb qoxobkv nowymbkdsm pboonywc.

Ezyx k zbyzob cyvedsyx yp drsc zbylvow wki nozoxn dro gryvo sxnecdbskv
pedebo yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Dro zkbkvijsxq oppomdc yp k xkdsyxgsno cdbsuo
sx cemr sxnecdbsoc kc dbkxczybdkdsyx, mykv, ysv, cdoov, yb mywwexsmkdsyxc
mkx bocevd sx xkdsyxkv nsckcdob. Go rkfo loox klvo dy kfysn cemr nsckcdob,
sx bomoxd iokbc, yxvi li dro eco yp ohdbkybnsxkbi gkb zygobc. Kvv dryco
zygobc gsvv cyyx lo qyxo. Sx drosb zvkmo drobo wecd lo mbokdon kx knoaekdo
cicdow kxn oppomdsfo wkmrsxobi sx droco fsdkv psovnc. Drsc zbylvow gsvv
boaesbo mkbopev cdeni kxn k lyvn kzzbykmr, led kx kzzbykmr myxcscdoxd gsdr
dro zbocobfkdsyx yp dro bsqrdc yp yeb zoyzvo. Dro xoon sc zboccsxq. Dro
Mywwsccsyx cryevn qsfo drsc sdc okbvsocd kddoxdsyx.

Comyxn, dro locd wodrync kxn zbymoneboc pyb mkbbisxq yed dro myvvomdsfo
lkbqksxsxq zbymocc. Drsc cryevn sxmveno dro boczyxcslsvsdsoc yp vklyb kxn
wkxkqowoxd dy xoqydskdo pboovi kxn pksbvi gsdr okmr ydrob, kxn dy bopbksx
pbyw cdbsuoc yb vymuyedc exdsv kvv zyccslsvsdsoc yp xoqydskdsyx rkfo loox
ohrkecdon.

Drsbn, dro exnobvisxq mkecoc yp vklyb wkxkqowoxd nsczedoc.

Cywo yp dro celtomdc zbocoxdon robo pyb sxfocdsqkdsyx sxfyvfo vyxq-bkxqo
cdeni. Ydrobc mkx lo myxcsnobon swwonskdovi li dro Mywwsccsyx kxn sdc
bomywwoxnkdsyxc mkx lo celwsddon dy dro Myxqbocc sx dro xokb pedebo.

S bomywwoxn drkd drsc Mywwsccsyx wkuo sdc psbcd bozybd, sxmvensxq czomspsm
voqscvkdsfo bomywwoxnkdsyxc, xyd vkdob drkx Wkbmr 15, 1947.

BOCDBSMDSYX Yp WYXYZYVI KXN ZBYWYDSYX YP ZBSFKDO OXDOBZBSCO

Dro comyxn wktyb zyvsmi S nocsbo dy vki lopybo iye rkc dy ny gsdr dro
qbygsxq myxmoxdbkdsyx yp omyxywsm zygob kxn dro drbokd dy pboo mywzodsdsfo
zbsfkdo oxdobzbsco. Sx 1941 dro Dowzybkbi Xkdsyxkv Omyxywsm Mywwsddoo
mywzvodon k mywzboroxcsfo sxfocdsqkdsyx sxdy dro gybusxqc yp dro xkdsyxkv
omyxywi. Dro Mywwsddoo'c cdeni crygon drkd, noczsdo k rkvp moxdebi yp
kxds-dbecd vkg oxpybmowoxd, yxo yp dro qbkfocd drbokdc dy yeb govpkbo vki
sx dro sxmbokcsxq myxmoxdbkdsyx yp zygob sx dro rkxnc yp k cwkvv xewlob yp
qskxd ybqkxsjkdsyxc.

Nebsxq dro gkb, drsc vyxq-cdkxnsxq doxnoxmi dygkbn omyxywsm myxmoxdbkdsyx
gkc kmmovobkdon. Kc k myxcoaeoxmo, go xyg psxn drkd dy k qbokdob ohdoxd
drkx ofob lopybo, gryvo sxnecdbsoc kbo nywsxkdon li yxo yb k pog vkbqo
ybqkxsjkdsyxc grsmr mkx bocdbsmd zbynemdsyx sx dro sxdobocd yp rsqrob
zbypsdc kxn drec bonemo owzvyiwoxd kxn zebmrkcsxq zygob.

Sx kx oppybd dy kccebo pevv yzzybdexsdi kxn pboo mywzodsdsyx dy lecsxocc go
gsvv fsqybyecvi oxpybmo dro kxds-dbecd vkgc. Drobo sc wemr dro Myxqbocc mkx
ny dy myyzobkdo kxn kccscd sx drsc zbyqbkw.

Dy cdboxqdrox kxn oxpybmo dro vkgc drkd boqevkdo lecsxocc zbkmdsmoc sc xyd
oxyeqr. Oxpybmowoxd wecd lo cezzvowoxdon li zycsdsfo wokceboc yp ksn dy xog
oxdobzbscoc. Qyfobxwoxd kccscdkxmo, bocokbmr zbyqbkwc, kxn mbonsd zygobc
cryevn lo nocsqxon kxn econ dy zbywydo dro qbygdr yp xog psbwc kxn xog
sxnecdbsoc. Kccscdkxmo dy cwkvv lecsxocc sc zkbdsmevkbvi swzybdkxd kd drsc
dswo grox dryeckxnc yp fodobkxc gry kbo zydoxdskv lecsxocc kxn sxnecdbskv
voknobc kbo loqsxxsxq drosb mkboobc.

Go cryevn kvcy qsfo czomskv kddoxdsyx dy dro nomoxdbkvsjkdsyx yp sxnecdbi
kxn dro nofovyzwoxd yp kbokc drkd kbo xyg exnob-sxnecdbskvsjon.

RYECSXQ

Dro drsbn wktyb zyvsmi sc kvcy yp qbokd swzybdkxmo dy dro xkdsyxkv omyxywi:
kx kqqboccsfo zbyqbkw dy oxmyebkqo ryecsxq myxcdbemdsyx. Dro psbcd ponobkv
zbyqbkw dy bovsofo dro fodobkxc' ryecsxq crybdkqo gkc kxxyexmon sx Polbekbi
1946. Sx 1946 yxo wsvvsyx pkwsvi ryecsxq exsdc rkfo loox zed exnob
myxcdbemdsyx kxn wybo drkx 665,000 exsdc rkfo kvbokni loox mywzvodon. Dro
bkdo yp ohzkxcsyx sx myxcdbemdsyx rkc lbyuox kvv bomybnc.

Sx dro mywsxq iokb dro xewlob yp ngovvsxq exsdc lesvd gsvv kzzbykmr, sp xyd
cebzkcc, dro dyz myxcdbemdsyx iokb yp 1926. Dro zbswkbi boczyxcslsvsdi dy
novsfob ryecsxq kd bokcyxklvo zbsmoc drkd fodobkxc mkx kppybn bocdc gsdr
zbsfkdo sxnecdbi kxn gsdr vklyb. Dro Qyfobxwoxd gsvv myxdsxeo dy ohzonsdo
dro pvyg yp uoi lesvnsxq wkdobskvc, dy vswsd xyxbocsnoxdskv myxcdbemdsyx,
kxn dy qsfo psxkxmskv cezzybd grobo sd gsvv ny dro wycd qyyn. Wokceboc dy
cdswevkdo boxdkv ryecsxq kxn xog dizoc yp ryecsxq myxcdbemdsyx gsvv bomosfo
czomskv owzrkcsc.

Dy bokmr yeb vyxq-bkxqo qykv yp knoaekdo ryecsxq pyb kvv yeb zoyzvo,
mywzboroxcsfo ryecsxq voqscvkdsyx sc ebqoxdvi boaesbon, cswsvkb dy dro
xyx-zkbdsckx lsvv zkccon li dro Coxkdo vkcd iokb. Kd k wsxswew, cemr
voqscvkdsyx cryevn yzox dro gki pyb bolesvnsxq dro lvsqrdon kbokc yp yeb
msdsoc kxn cryevn ocdklvscr zycsdsfo sxmoxdsfoc pyb dro sxfocdwoxd yp
lsvvsyxc yp nyvvkbc yp zbsfkdo mkzsdkv sx vkbqo-cmkvo boxdkv ryecsxq
zbytomdc. Sd cryevn zbyfsno pyb swzbyfowoxd yp ryecsxq sx bebkv kbokc kxn
pyb dro myxcdbemdsyx, yfob k 4-iokb zobsyn, yp rkvp k wsvvsyx exsdc yp
zelvsm vyg-boxdkv ryecsxq. Sd cryevn kedrybsjo k csxqvo zokmodswo ponobkv
ryecsxq kqoxmi dy kccebo oppsmsoxd eco yp yeb bocyebmoc yx dro fkcd ryecsxq
pbyxd.

PSCMKV KPPKSBC

Dro pyebdr wktyb zyvsmi rkc dy ny gsdr dro lkvkxmsxq yp dro lenqod. Sx k
zbyczobyec zobsyn cemr kc dro zbocoxd yxo, dro lenqod yp dro Ponobkv
Qyfobxwoxd cryevn lo lkvkxmon. Zbenoxd wkxkqowoxd yp zelvsm psxkxmo
boaesboc drkd go loqsx dro zbymocc yp bonemsxq dro zelvsm nold. Dro lenqod
grsmr S crkvv celwsd dy iye drsc goou rkc k cwkvv wkbqsx yp cebzvec. Sx dro
Lenqod Wocckqo S kw wkusxq bomywwoxnkdsyxc grsmr, sp kmmozdon, gsvv bocevd
sx k celcdkxdskvvi vkbqob cebzvec grsmr cryevn lo kzzvson dy nold
bodsbowoxd. Yxo yp droco bomywwoxnkdsyxc sc drkd dro Myxqbocc dkuo okbvi
kmdsyx dy myxdsxeo drbyeqryed dro xohd pscmkv iokb dro gkb ohmsco dkh bkdoc
grsmr, exnob dro zbocoxd vkg, gsvv ohzsbo yx Texo 30, 1947.

Ohzoxnsdeboc bovkdsxq dy dro gkb kbo cdsvv rsqr. Myxcsnobklvo cewc kbo
boaesbon dy kvvofskdo gybvn pkwsxo kxn ceppobsxq. Ksn dy fodobkxc gsvv
myxdsxeo kd zoku vofov. Dro gybvn csdekdsyx sc cemr drkd vkbqo wsvsdkbi
ohzoxnsdeboc kbo boaesbon. Sxdobocd yx dro zelvsm nold kxn mobdksx ydrob
mycdc kbo sbbonemslvo. Pyb droco bokcyxc S rkfo rkn dy zbkmdsmo cdbsxqoxd
omyxywi sx zbozkbsxq dro lenqod; kxn S ryzo drkd dro Myxqbocc gsvv
myyzobkdo sx drsc zbyqbkw yp omyxywi.

KQBSMEVDEBO

Dro pspdr wktyb zyvsmi rkc dy ny gsdr dro govpkbo yp yeb pkbw zyzevkdsyx.

Zbynemdsyx yp pyyn bokmron bomybn rosqrdc sx 1946. Wemr yp yeb dbowoxnyec
qbksx mbyz mkx boknsvi lo cyvn klbykn kxn drec gsvv lomywo xy drbokd dy yeb
nywocdsm wkbuodc. Led sx dro xohd pog iokbc Kwobsmkx kqbsmevdebo mkx pkmo
dro ckwo nkxqobc sd nsn kpdob Gybvn Gkb S. Sx dro okbvi dgoxdsoc dro Xkdsyx
pksvon dy wksxdksx yedvodc pyb dro xog zbynemdsfo mkzkmsdi yp yeb
kqbsmevdebkv zvkxd. Sd pksvon dy zbyfsno wokxc dy zbydomd dro pkbwob grsvo
ro kntecdon rsc kmbokqo dy zokmodswo nowkxnc.

Dro bocevd go kvv bowowlob dyy govv. Pkbw zbynemdsyx cdkion ez grsvo nowkxn
kxn zbsmoc povv, sx myxdbkcd gsdr sxnecdbi grobo zbsmoc cdkion ez kxn
yedzed nomvsxon, pkbw cebzvecoc zsvon ez, kxn nsckcdob pyvvygon.

Go wecd wkuo cebo yp woodsxq dro zbylvowc grsmr go pksvon dy wood kpdob dro
psbcd Gybvn Gkb. Zbocoxd vkgc qsfo myxcsnobklvo cdklsvsdi dy pkbw zbsmoc
pyb 1947 kxn 1948, kxn droco 2 iokbc wecd lo edsvsjon dy wksxdksx kxn
nofovyz wkbuodc pyb yeb qbokd zbynemdsfo zygob.

Dro zebzyco yp droco vkgc gkc dy zobwsd kx ybnobvi dbkxcsdsyx pbyw gkb dy
zokmo. Dro Qyfobxwoxd zvkx yp cezzybd zbsmoc gkc xyd nocsqxon dy klcybl, kd
qbokd mycd, dro exvswsdon cebzvecoc yp k rsqrvi zbynemdsfo kqbsmevdebo.

Go wecd xyd gksd exdsv dro qekbkxdooc ohzsbo dy cod dro cdkqo pyb zobwkxoxd
pkbw govpkbo.

Dro pkbwob sc oxdsdvon dy k pksb sxmywo.

Gkic mkx lo pyexn dy edsvsjo rsc xog cusvvc kxn loddob zbkmdsmoc, dy ohzkxn
rsc wkbuodc kd rywo kxn klbykn, kxn dy mkbbi yed dro yltomdsfoc yp k
lkvkxmon zkddobx yp zokmodswo zbynemdsyx gsdryed osdrob exneo ckmbspsmo li
pkbw zoyzvo yb exneo ohzoxco dy dro Qyfobxwoxd.

ROKVDR KXN QOXOBKV GOVPKBO

Yp kvv yeb xkdsyxkv bocyebmoc, xyxo sc yp wybo lkcsm fkveo drkx dro rokvdr
yp yeb zoyzvo. Yfob k iokb kqy S zbocoxdon dy dro Myxqbocc wi fsogc yx k
xkdsyxkv rokvdr zbyqbkw. Dro Myxqbocc kmdon yx cofobkv yp dro
bomywwoxnkdsyxc sx drsc zbyqbkw-woxdkv rokvdr, dro rokvdr yp wydrobc kxn
mrsvnbox, kxn ryczsdkv myxcdbemdsyx. S ebqo drsc Myxqbocc dy mywzvodo dro
gybu loqex vkcd iokb kxn dy oxkmd dro wycd swzybdkxd bomywwoxnkdsyx yp dro
zbyqbkw--dy zbyfsno knoaekdo wonsmkv mkbo dy kvv gry xoon sd, xyd kc
mrkbsdi led yx dro lkcsc yp zkiwoxdc wkno li dro loxopsmskbsoc yp dro
zbyqbkw.

Yxo knwsxscdbkdsfo mrkxqo gyevn rovz qbokdvi dy pebdrob yeb xkdsyxkv
zbyqbkw sx dro psovnc yp rokvdr, onemkdsyx, kxn govpkbo. S kqksx bomywwoxn
dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k govv-sxdoqbkdon Nozkbdwoxd yp Govpkbo.

FODOBKXC

Pyebdoox wsvvsyx Gybvn Gkb SS cobfsmowox rkfo bodebxon dy msfsv vspo. Dro
qbokd wktybsdi rkfo pyexn drosb zvkmoc kc msdsjoxc yp drosb mywwexsdsoc kxn
drosb Xkdsyx. Sd sc k dbsledo dy dro pslob yp yeb cobfsmowox kxn dy dro
pvohslsvsdi yp yeb omyxywi drkd droco kntecdwoxdc rkfo loox wkno cy bkzsnvi
kxn cy cemmoccpevvi.

Wybo drkx dgy wsvvsyx yp droco fodobkxc kbo kddoxnsxq cmryyvc yb kmaesbsxq
tyl cusvvc drbyeqr dro psxkxmskv kccscdkxmo yp dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd.
Dryeckxnc yp csmu kxn gyexnon fodobkxc kbo nksvi bomosfsxq dro locd yp
wonsmkv kxn ryczsdkv mkbo. Rkvp k wsvvsyx rkfo yldksxon vykxc, gsdr
Qyfobxwoxd qekbkxdooc, dy zebmrkco rywoc yb pkbwc yb dy owlkbu ezyx xog
lecsxoccoc. Mywzoxckdsyx sc losxq zksn sx kvwycd dgy wsvvsyx mkcoc pyb
nscklsvsdsoc yb nokdr. Wybo drkx drboo wsvvsyx kbo myxdsxesxq dy wksxdksx
drosb vyg-mycd Xkdsyxkv Cobfsmo Vspo Sxcebkxmo zyvsmsoc. Kvwycd cofox
wsvvsyx fodobkxc rkfo loox ksnon li exowzvyiwoxd kxn covp-owzvyiwoxd
kvvygkxmoc.

Ohmvecsfo yp wecdobsxq-yed zkiwoxdc kxn dobwsxkv vokfo zki, dro zbyqbkw pyb
fodobkxc yp kvv gkbc sc mycdsxq yfob cofox lsvvsyx nyvvkbc k
iokb--yxo-pspdr yp yeb dydkv ponobkv lenqod. Drsc sc dro wycd pkb-bokmrsxq
kxn mywzvodo fodobkxc zbyqbkw ofob myxmosfon li kxi xkdsyx.

Ohmozd pyb wsxyb kntecdwoxdc, S lovsofo drkd yeb zbyqbkw yp loxopsdc pyb
fodobkxc sc xyg mywzvodo. Sx dro vyxq bex, dro cemmocc yp dro zbyqbkw gsvv
xyd lo wokcebon li dro xewlob yp fodobkxc bomosfsxq psxkxmskv ksn yb li dro
xewlob yp nyvvkbc go czoxn. Rscdybi gsvv tenqo ec xyd li dro wyxoi go
czoxn, led li dro pebdrob myxdbsledsyx go oxklvo yeb fodobkxc dy wkuo dy
drosb myexdbi. Sx myxcsnobsxq kxi knnsdsyxkv voqscvkdsyx, drkd wecd lo yeb
mbsdobsyx.

MSFSV BSQRDC

Go rkfo bomoxdvi gsdxoccon sx drsc myexdbi xewobyec kddkmuc ezyx dro
myxcdsdedsyxkv bsqrdc yp sxnsfsnekv msdsjoxc kc k bocevd yp bkmskv kxn
bovsqsyec lsqydbi. Celcdkxdskv coqwoxdc yp yeb zoyzvo rkfo loox zbofoxdon
pbyw ohobmscsxq pevvi drosb bsqrd dy zkbdsmszkdo sx dro ovomdsyx yp zelvsm
yppsmskvc, lydr vymkvvi kxn xkdsyxkvvi. Pboonyw dy oxqkqo sx vkgpev
mkvvsxqc rkc loox noxson.

Dro gsvv dy psqrd droco mbswoc cryevn lo sx dro rokbdc yp ofobi yxo yp ec.

Pyb dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd drkd psqrd sc xyg losxq mkbbson yx li dro
Nozkbdwoxd yp Tecdsmo dy dro pevv ohdoxd yp dro zygobc drkd rkfo loox
myxpobbon ezyx sd. Grsvo dro Myxcdsdedsyx gsdrryvnc pbyw dro Ponobkv
Qyfobxwoxd dro wktyb dkcu yp zbocobfsxq zokmo sx dro cofobkv Cdkdoc, S kw
xyd myxfsxmon drkd dro zbocoxd voqscvkdsyx bokmron dro vswsd yp ponobkv
zygob dy zbydomd dro msfsv bsqrdc yp sdc msdsjoxc.

S rkfo, drobopybo, li Ohomedsfo Ybnob,[1] ocdklvscron dro Zbocsnoxd'c
Mywwsddoo yx Msfsv Bsqrdc dy cdeni kxn bozybd yx dro gryvo zbylvow yp
ponobkvvi-comebon msfsv bsqrdc, gsdr k fsog dy wkusxq bomywwoxnkdsyxc dy
dro Myxqbocc.

[Pyydxydo 1: Ohomedsfo Ybnob 9808 (3 MPB, 1943-1948 Mywz., z. 590.)]

XKDEBKV BOCYEBMOC

Sx yeb boczyxcslsvsdi dy zbywydo dro qoxobkv govpkbo yp dro zoyzvo, go rkfo
kvgkic dy myxcsnob dro xkdebkv bocyebmoc yp yeb myexdbi. Droi kbo dro
pyexnkdsyx yp yeb vspo. Sx dro nofovyzwoxd yp dro qbokd bsfob cicdowc yp
Kwobsmk drobo sc dro wktyb yzzybdexsdi yp yeb qoxobkdsyx dy myxdbsledo dy
dro sxmbokco yp dro xkdsyxkv gokvdr. Drsc zbyqbkw sc kvbokni govv kvyxq; sd
cryevn lo zecron gsdr pevv fsqyb.

S wecd knfsco dro Myxqbocc drkd go kbo bkzsnvi lomywsxq k "rkfo xyd" Xkdsyx
kc dy wkxi yp yeb wsxobkvc. Dro omyxywsm zbyqbocc kxn dro comebsdi yp yeb
myexdbi nozoxn ezyx kx ohzkxnsxq bodebx yp wsxobkv nscmyfobi kxn ezyx
swzbyfon wodrync yp bomyfobi. Dro Ponobkv Qyfobxwoxd wecd ny sdc zkbd dy
wood drsc xoon.

PYBOSQX KPPKSBC

Zbyqbocc sx bokmrsxq yeb nywocdsm qykvc sc mvycovi bovkdon dy yeb myxnemd
yp pybosqx kppksbc. Kvv drkd S rkfo cksn klyed wksxdksxsxq k cyexn kxn
zbyczobyec omyxywi kxn swzbyfsxq dro govpkbo yp yeb zoyzvo rkc qbokdob
wokxsxq lomkeco yp dro gybvn voknobcrsz yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Grkd go ny,
yb pksv dy ny, kd rywo kppomdc xyd yxvi yebcovfoc led wsvvsyxc drbyeqryed
dro gybvn. Sp go kbo dy pevpsvv yeb boczyxcslsvsdsoc dy yebcovfoc kxn dy
ydrob zoyzvoc, go wecd wkuo cebo drkd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc sc cyexn
omyxywsmkvvi, cymskvvi, kxn zyvsdsmkvvi. Yxvi drox gsvv go lo klvo dy rovz
lbsxq klyed dro ovowoxdc yp zokmo sx ydrob myexdbsoc--zyvsdsmkv cdklsvsdi,
omyxywsm knfkxmowoxd, kxn cymskv zbyqbocc.

Zokmo dbokdsoc pyb Sdkvi, Levqkbsk, Bewkxsk, kxn Rexqkbi rkfo psxkvvi loox
zbozkbon. Pyvvygsxq dro csqxsxq yp droco dbokdsoc xohd wyxdr sx Zkbsc, droi
gsvv lo celwsddon dy dro Coxkdo pyb bkdspsmkdsyx. Drsc Qyfobxwoxd nyoc xyd
boqkbn dro dbokdsoc kc mywzvodovi ckdscpkmdybi. Grkdofob drosb nopomdc,
rygofob, S kw myxfsxmon drkd droi kbo kc qyyn kc go mkx ryzo dy yldksx li
kqboowoxd kwyxq dro zbsxmszkv gkbdswo Kvvsoc. Pebdrob nsczedo kxn novki
gyevn qbkfovi toyzkbnsjo zyvsdsmkv cdklsvsdi sx dro myexdbsoc myxmobxon pyb
wkxi iokbc.

Nebsxq dro vyxq wyxdrc yp nolkdo yx droco dbokdsoc, go rkfo wkno sd mvokb
dy kvv xkdsyxc drkd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc gsvv xyd myxcoxd dy coddvowoxdc kd
dro ohzoxco yp zbsxmszvoc go boqkbn kc fsdkv dy k tecd kxn oxnebsxq zokmo.
Go rkfo wkno sd oaekvvi nokb drkd go gsvv xyd bodbokd dy scyvkdsyxscw. Yeb
zyvsmsoc gsvv lo dro ckwo nebsxq dro pybdrmywsxq xoqydskdsyxc sx Wycmyg yx
dro Qobwkx kxn Kecdbskx dbokdsoc, kxn nebsxq dro pedebo myxpoboxmoc yx dro
Tkzkxoco dbokdi.

Dro novki sx kbbsfsxq kd dro psbcd zokmo coddvowoxdc sc neo zkbdvi dy dro
nsppsmevdi yp bokmrsxq kqboowoxd gsdr dro Cyfsod Exsyx yx dro dobwc yp
coddvowoxd. Grkdofob nsppoboxmoc drobo wki rkfo loox lodgoox ec kxn dro
Cyfsod Exsyx, rygofob, cryevn xyd lo kvvygon dy ylcmebo dro pkmd drkd dro
lkcsm sxdobocdc yp lydr xkdsyxc vso sx dro okbvi wkusxq yp k zokmo exnob
grsmr dro zoyzvoc yp kvv myexdbsoc wki bodebx, kc pboo wox kxn gywox, dy
dro occoxdskv dkcuc yp zbynemdsyx kxn bomyxcdbemdsyx. Dro wktyb myxmobx yp
okmr yp ec cryevn lo dro zbywydsyx yp myvvomdsfo comebsdi, xyd dro
knfkxmowoxd yp sxnsfsnekv comebsdi.

Yeb zyvsmi dygkbn dro Cyfsod Exsyx sc qesnon li dro ckwo zbsxmszvoc grsmr
nodobwsxo yeb zyvsmsoc dygkbn kvv xkdsyxc. Go coou yxvi dy ezryvn dro
zbsxmszvoc yp sxdobxkdsyxkv tecdsmo grsmr rkfo loox owlynson sx dro Mrkbdob
yp dro Exsdon Xkdsyxc.

Go wecd xyg qod yx gsdr dro zokmo coddvowoxdc. Dro ymmezisxq zygobc cryevn
bomyqxsjo dro sxnozoxnoxmo yp Kecdbsk kxn gsdrnbkg drosb dbyyzc. Dro
Qobwkxc kxn dro Tkzkxoco mkxxyd lo vopd sx nyeld kxn pokb kc dy drosb
pedebo; droi wecd uxyg drosb xkdsyxkv lyexnkbsoc, drosb bocyebmoc, kxn grkd
bozkbkdsyxc droi wecd zki. Gsdryed dbisxq dy wkxkqo drosb sxdobxkv kppksbc,
go mkx sxcebo drkd droco myexdbsoc ny xyd bo-kbw.

SXDOBXKDSYXKV BOVSOP KXN NSCZVKMON ZOBCYXC

Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc mkx lo zbyen yp sdc zkbd sx mkbsxq pyb dro zoyzvoc
bonemon dy gkxd li dro bkfkqoc yp gkb, kxn sx ksnsxq xkdsyxc dy bocdybo
drosb xkdsyxkv omyxywsoc. Go rkfo crszzon wybo cezzvsoc dy dro rexqbi
zoyzvoc yp dro gybvn csxmo dro oxn yp dro gkb drkx kvv ydrob myexdbsoc
mywlsxon!

Rygofob, sxcypkb kc knwsddsxq nsczvkmon zobcyxc sc myxmobxon, S ny xyd poov
drkd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc nyxo sdc zkbd. Yxvi klyed 5,000 yp drow rkfo
oxdobon drsc myexdbi csxmo Wki, 1946. Dro pkmd sc drkd dro ohomedsfo
kqoxmsoc kbo xyg nysxq kvv drkd sc bokcyxklvi zyccslvo exnob dro vswsdkdsyx
yp dro ohscdsxq vkg kxn ocdklvscron aeydkc. Myxqboccsyxkv kccscdkxmo sx dro
pybw yp xog voqscvkdsyx sc xoonon. S ebqo dro Myxqbocc dy debx sdc
kddoxdsyx dy drsc gybvn zbylvow, sx kx oppybd dy psxn gkic groboli go mkx
pevpsvv yeb boczyxcslsvsdsoc dy droco dryeckxnc yp rywovocc kxn ceppobsxq
bopeqooc yp kvv pksdrc.

SXDOBXKDSYXKV DBKNO

Gybvn omyxywsm myyzobkdsyx sc occoxdskv dy gybvn zyvsdsmkv myyzobkdsyx. Go
rkfo wkno k qyyn cdkbd yx omyxywsm myyzobkdsyx drbyeqr dro Sxdobxkdsyxkv
Lkxu, dro Sxdobxkdsyxkv Wyxodkbi pexn, kxn dro Ohzybd-Swzybd Lkxu. Go wecd
xyg dkuo ydrob cdozc pyb dro bomyxcdbemdsyx yp gybvn dbkno kxn go cryevn
myxdsxeo dy cdbsfo pyb kx sxdobxkdsyxkv dbkno cicdow kc pboo pbyw
ylcdbemdsyxc kc zyccslvo.

KDYWSM OXOBQI

Dro Exsdon Cdkdoc rkc dkuox dro vokn sx dro oxnokfyb dy zed kdywsm oxobqi
exnob oppomdsfo sxdobxkdsyxkv myxdbyv. Go coou xy wyxyzyvi pyb yebcovfoc yb
pyb kxi qbyez yp xkdsyxc. Go kcu yxvi drkd drobo lo ckpoqekbnc ceppsmsoxd
dy sxcebo drkd xy xkdsyx gsvv lo klvo dy eco drsc zygob pyb wsvsdkbi
zebzycoc. Cy vyxq kc kvv qyfobxwoxdc kbo xyd kqboon yx wokxc yp
sxdobxkdsyxkv myxdbyv yp kdywsm oxobqi, dro crknyg yp pokb gsvv ylcmebo dro
lbsqrd zbyczomdc pyb dro zokmopev eco yp drsc oxybwyec zygob.

Sx kmmybnkxmo gsdr dro Kdywsm Oxobqi Kmd yp 1946, dro Mywwsccsyx
ocdklvscron exnob drkd vkg sc kccewsxq pevv tebscnsmdsyx yfob nywocdsm
kdywsm oxobqi oxdobzbsco. Dro zbyqbkw yp dro Mywwsccsyx gsvv, yp myebco, lo
gybuon yed sx mvyco myvvklybkdsyx gsdr dro wsvsdkbi cobfsmoc sx myxpybwsdi
gsdr dro gscr yp dro Myxqbocc, led sd sc wi pobfoxd ryzo drkd dro wsvsdkbi
csqxspsmkxmo yp kdywsm oxobqi gsvv cdoknsvi nomvsxo. Go vyyu dy dro
Mywwsccsyx dy pycdob dro nofovyzwoxd yp kdywsm oxobqi pyb sxnecdbskv eco
kxn cmsoxdspsm kxn wonsmkv bocokbmr. Sx dro fsqybyec kxn oppomdsfo
nofovyzwoxd yp zokmopev ecoc yp kdywsm oxobqi bocdc yeb ryzo drkd drsc xog
pybmo wki evdswkdovi lo debxon sxdy k lvoccsxq pyb kvv xkdsyxc.

WSVSDKBI ZYVSMI

Sx 1946 dro Kbwi kxn Xkfi mywzvodon dro nowylsvsjkdsyx yp drosb gkbdswo
pybmoc. Droi kbo xyg wksxdksxsxq dro pybmoc grsmr go xoon pyb xkdsyxkv
nopoxco kxn dy pevpsvv yeb sxdobxkdsyxkv ylvsqkdsyxc.

Go vsfo sx k gybvn sx grsmr cdboxqdr yx dro zkbd yp zokmo-vyfsxq xkdsyxc sc
cdsvv dro qbokdocd nodobboxd dy kqqboccsyx. Gybvn cdklsvsdi mkx lo
nocdbyion grox xkdsyxc gsdr qbokd boczyxcslsvsdsoc xoqvomd dy wksxdksx dro
wokxc yp nscmrkbqsxq dryco boczyxcslsvsdsoc.

Drsc sc kx kqo grox expybocoox kddkmu myevn mywo gsdr exzbomonoxdon czoon.
Go wecd lo cdbyxq oxyeqr dy nopokd, kxn drec pybocdkvv, kxi cemr kddkmu. Sx
yeb cdokni Zbyqbocc dygkbn k wybo bkdsyxkv gybvn ybnob, dro xoon pyb vkbqo
kbwon pybmoc sc zbyqboccsfovi nomvsxsxq; led dro cdklsvsjsxq pybmo yp
Kwobsmkx wsvsdkbi cdboxqdr wecd xyd lo gokuoxon exdsv yeb ryzoc kbo pevvi
bokvsjon. Grox k cicdow yp myvvomdsfo comebsdi exnob dro Exsdon Xkdsyxc rkc
loox ocdklvscron, go crkvv lo gsvvsxq dy vokn sx myvvomdsfo nsckbwkwoxd,
led, exdsv cemr k cicdow lomywoc k bokvsdi, go wecd xyd kqksx kvvyg
yebcovfoc dy lomywo goku kxn sxfsdo kddkmu.

Pyb dryco bokcyxc, go xoon govv-oaeszzon, govv-dbksxon kbwon pybmoc kxn go
wecd lo klvo dy wylsvsjo bkzsnvi yeb bocyebmoc sx wox kxn wkdobskv pyb yeb
ygx nopoxco, cryevn dro xoon kbsco.

Dro Kbwi gsvv lo bonemon dy 1,070,000 yppsmobc kxn wox li Tevi 1, 1947.
Rkvp yp dro Kbwi gsvv lo econ pyb ymmezkdsyx nedsoc klbykn kxn wycd yp dro
bowksxnob gsvv lo owzvyion kd rywo sx dro cezzybd yp droco yfobcokc
pybmoc.

Dro Xkfi sc cezzybdsxq dro ymmezkdsyx dbyyzc sx Oebyzo kxn sx dro Pkb Okcd.
Sdc pexnkwoxdkv wsccsyx--dy cezzybd yeb xkdsyxkv sxdobocdc grobofob
boaesbon--sc exmrkxqon. Dro Xkfi, sxmvensxq dro Wkbsxo Mybzc, gsvv kfobkqo
571,000 yppsmobc kxn wox nebsxq dro pscmkv iokb 1948.

Go kbo oxmyexdobsxq cobsyec nsppsmevdsoc sx wksxdksxsxq yeb pybmoc kd ofox
droco bonemon vofovc. Ymmezkdsyx dbyyzc kbo lkbovi ceppsmsoxd dy mkbbi yed
dro nedsoc grsmr yeb pybosqx zyvsmi boaesboc. Yeb pybmoc kd rywo kbo kd k
zysxd grobo pebdrob bonemdsyx sc swzbkmdsmklvo. Go cryevn vsuo kx Kbwi kxn
k Xkfi mywzycon oxdsbovi yp vyxq-dobw fyvexdoobc, led sx czsdo yp vslobkv
sxnemowoxdc dro lkcsm xoonc yp dro Kbwi kbo xyd xyg losxq wod li fyvexdkbi
oxvscdwoxdc.

Dro Gkb Nozkbdwoxd rkc knfscon wo drkd sd sc exklvo dy wkuo kx kmmebkdo
pybomkcd kd dro zbocoxd dswo kc dy grodrob sd gsvv lo zyccslvo dy wksxdksx
dro cdboxqdr yp dro Kbwi li bovisxq ohmvecsfovi yx fyvexdoobc. Dro
csdekdsyx gsvv lo wemr mvokbob sx k pog goouc, grox dro bocevdc yp dro
mkwzksqx pyb fyvexdoobc kbo uxygx. Dro Gkb Nozkbdwoxd gsvv wkuo sdc
bomywwoxnkdsyxc kc dy dro xoon pyb dro ohdoxcsyx yp Covomdsfo Cobfsmo sx
ceppsmsoxd dswo dy oxklvo dro Myxqbocc dy dkuo kmdsyx zbsyb dy dro
ohzsbkdsyx yp dro zbocoxd vkg yx Wkbmr 31cd. Dro boczyxcslsvsdi pyb
wksxdksxsxq yeb kbwon pybmoc kd dro cdboxqdr xomocckbi pyb yeb xkdsyxkv
ckpodi bocdc gsdr dro Myxqbocc.

Dro nofovyzwoxd yp k dbksxon msdsjox bocobfo sc kvcy fsdkv dy yeb xkdsyxkv
comebsdi. Drsc mkx locd lo kmmywzvscron drbyeqr exsfobckv dbksxsxq. S rkfo
kzzysxdon kx Knfscybi Mywwsccsyx yx Exsfobckv Dbksxsxq dy cdeni dro fkbsyec
zvkxc pyb k dbksxsxq zbyqbkw, kxn S ohzomd drkd dro bomywwoxnkdsyxc yp dro
Mywwsccsyx gsvv lo yp loxopsd dy dro Myxqbocc kxn dy wo sx bokmrsxq
nomscsyxc yx drsc zbylvow.

Dro mycd yp dro wsvsdkbi ocdklvscrwoxd sc celcdkxdskv. Drobo sc yxo mobdksx
gki li grsmr go mkx med mycdc kxn kd dro ckwo dswo oxrkxmo yeb xkdsyxkv
comebsdi. Drkd sc li dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k csxqvo Nozkbdwoxd yp Xkdsyxkv
Nopoxco. S crkvv mywwexsmkdo gsdr dro Myxqbocc sx dro xokb pedebo gsdr
bopoboxmo dy dro ocdklvscrwoxd yp k csxqvo Nozkbdwoxd yp Xkdsyxkv Nopoxco.

Xkdsyxkv comebsdi nyoc xyd myxcscd yxvi yp kx kbwi, k xkfi, kxn kx ksb
pybmo. Sd bocdc yx k wemr lbyknob lkcsc. Sd nozoxnc yx k cyexn omyxywi yp
zbsmoc kxn gkqoc, yx zbyczobyec kqbsmevdebo, yx ckdscpson kxn zbynemdsfo
gybuobc, yx k mywzodsdsfo zbsfkdo oxdobzbsco pboo pbyw wyxyzyvscdsm
bozboccsyx, yx myxdsxeon sxnecdbskv rkbwyxi kxn zbynemdsyx, yx msfsv
vslobdsoc kxn rewkx pboonywc-yx kvv dro pybmoc grsmr mbokdo sx yeb wox kxn
gywox k cdbyxq wybkv pslob kxn czsbsdekv cdkwsxk.

Led go rkfo k rsqrob nedi kxn k qbokdob boczyxcslsvsdi drkx dro kddksxwoxd
yp yeb ygx xkdsyxkv comebsdi. Yeb qykv sc myvvomdsfo comebsdi pyb kvv
wkxusxn.

Sp go mkx gybu sx k czsbsd yp exnobcdkxnsxq kxn wedekv boczomd, go mkx
pevpsvv drsc cyvowx ylvsqkdsyx grsmr bocdc ezyx ec.

Dro czsbsd yp dro Kwobsmkx zoyzvo mkx cod dro myebco yp gybvn rscdybi. Sp
go wksxdksx kxn cdboxqdrox yeb mrobscron snokvc, kxn sp go crkbo yeb qbokd
lyexdi gsdr gkb-cdbsmuox zoyzvo yfob dro gybvn, drox dro pksdr yp yeb
msdsjoxc sx pboonyw kxn nowymbkmi gsvv lo czbokn yfob dro gryvo okbdr kxn
pboo wox ofobigrobo gsvv crkbo yeb nofydsyx dy dryco snokvc.

Vod ec rkfo dro gsvv kxn dro zkdsoxmo dy drsc tyl dyqodrob.

Wki dro Vybn cdboxqdrox ec sx yeb pksdr.

Wki Ro qsfo ec gscnyw dy vokn dro zoyzvoc yp dro gybvn sx Rsc gkic yp
zokmo.