Uz. Xzmaqlmvb, Uz. Axmismz, Umujmza wn bpm Kwvozmaa:

Q iu pixxg bw zmxwzb bw bpqa 81ab Kwvozmaa bpib bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv qa
owwl. Wcz Vibqwv qa jmbbmz ijtm bpiv mdmz jmnwzm bw ummb bpm vmmla wn bpm
Iumzqkiv xmwxtm, ivl bw oqdm bpmu bpmqz niqz kpivkm qv bpm xczacqb wn
pixxqvmaa. Bpqa ozmib Zmxcjtqk qa nwzmuwab iuwvo bpm vibqwva wn bpm ewztl
qv bpm amizkp nwz xmikm.

Lczqvo bpm tiab 16 gmiza, wcz xmwxtm pidm jmmv kzmibqvo i awkqmbg epqkp
wnnmza vme wxxwzbcvqbqma nwz mdmzg uiv bw mvrwg pqa apizm wn bpm owwl
bpqvoa wn tqnm.

Qv bpqa awkqmbg, em izm kwvamzdibqdm ijwcb bpm ditcma ivl xzqvkqxtma epqkp
em kpmzqap; jcb em izm nwzeizl-twwsqvo qv xzwbmkbqvo bpwam ditcma ivl
xzqvkqxtma ivl qv mfbmvlqvo bpmqz jmvmnqba. Em pidm zmrmkbml bpm
lqakzmlqbml bpmwzg bpib bpm nwzbcvma wn bpm Vibqwv apwctl jm qv bpm pivla
wn i xzqdqtmoml nme. Em pidm ijivlwvml bpm "bzqkstmlwev" kwvkmxb wn
vibqwvit xzwaxmzqbg. Qvabmil, em jmtqmdm bpib wcz mkwvwuqk agabmu apwctl
zmab wv i lmuwkzibqk nwcvlibqwv ivl bpib emitbp apwctl jm kzmibml nwz bpm
jmvmnqb wn itt.

Bpm zmkmvb mtmkbqwv apwea bpib bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma izm qv nidwz
wn bpqa sqvl wn awkqmbg ivl eivb bw ow wv quxzwdqvo qb.

Bpm Iumzqkiv xmwxtm pidm lmkqlml bpib xwdmzbg qa rcab ia eiabmnct ivl rcab
ia cvvmkmaaizg ia xzmdmvbijtm lqamiam. Em pidm xtmloml wcz kwuuwv zmawczkma
bw pmtx wvm ivwbpmz qv bpm pihizla ivl abzcootma wn qvlqdqlcit tqnm. Em
jmtqmdm bpib vw cvniqz xzmrclqkm wz izbqnqkqit lqabqvkbqwv apwctl jiz ivg
kqbqhmv wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma wn Iumzqki nzwu iv mlckibqwv, wz nzwu owwl
pmitbp, wz nzwu i rwj bpib pm qa kixijtm wn xmznwzuqvo.

Bpm ibbiqvumvb wn bpqa sqvl wn awkqmbg lmuivla bpm jmab mnnwzba wn mdmzg
kqbqhmv qv mdmzg eits wn tqnm, ivl qb quxwama qvkzmiaqvo zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma
wv bpm Owdmzvumvb.

Bpm Owdmzvumvb ucab ewzs eqbp qvlcabzg, tijwz, ivl bpm nizumza qv smmxqvo
wcz mkwvwug zcvvqvo ib nctt axmml. Bpm Owdmzvumvb ucab amm bpib mdmzg
Iumzqkiv pia i kpivkm bw wjbiqv pqa niqz apizm wn wcz qvkzmiaqvo ijcvlivkm.
Bpmam zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma ow pivl qv pivl.

Em kivvwb uiqvbiqv xzwaxmzqbg cvtmaa em pidm i niqz lqabzqjcbqwv wn
wxxwzbcvqbg ivl i eqlmaxzmil kwvacuxbqwv wn bpm xzwlckba wn wcz nikbwzqma
ivl nizua.

Wcz Owdmzvumvb pia cvlmzbismv bw ummb bpmam zmaxwvaqjqtqbqma.

Em pidm uilm bzmumvlwca xcjtqk qvdmabumvba qv pqopeiga, pglzwmtmkbzqk
xwemz xzwrmkba, awqt kwvamzdibqwv, ivl zmktiuibqwv. Em pidm mabijtqapml i
agabmu wn awkqit amkczqbg. Em pidm mvikbml tiea xzwbmkbqvo bpm zqopba ivl
bpm emtnizm wn wcz ewzsqvo xmwxtm ivl bpm qvkwum wn wcz nizumza. Bpmam
Nmlmzit xwtqkqma pidm xiql nwz bpmuamtdma uivg bquma wdmz. Bpmg pidm
abzmvobpmvml bpm uibmzqit nwcvlibqwva wn wcz lmuwkzibqk qlmita. Eqbpwcb
bpmu, wcz xzmamvb xzwaxmzqbg ewctl jm quxwaaqjtm.

Zmqvnwzkml jg bpmam xwtqkqma, wcz xzqdibm mvbmzxzqam agabmu pia zmikpml vme
pmqopba wn xzwlckbqwv. Aqvkm bpm jwwu gmiz wn 1929, epqtm wcz xwxctibqwv
pia qvkzmiaml jg wvtg 20 xmzkmvb, wcz iozqkctbczit xzwlckbqwv pia qvkzmiaml
jg 45 xmzkmvb, ivl wcz qvlcabzqit xzwlckbqwv pia qvkzmiaml jg 75 xmzkmvb.
Em izm bczvqvo wcb niz uwzm owwla ivl uwzm emitbp xmz ewzsmz bpiv em pidm
mdmz lwvm jmnwzm.

Bpqa xzwozmaa pia kwvnwcvlml bpm otwwug xzwxpmba--ib pwum ivl ijzwil epw
xzmlqkbml bpm lwevnitt wn Iumzqkiv kixqbitqau. Bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma, owqvo bpmqz wev eig, kwvnqlmvb qv bpmqz wev xwemza, pidm ikpqmdml
bpm ozmibmab xzwaxmzqbg bpm ewztl pia mdmv ammv.

Jcb, ozmib ia wcz xzwozmaa pia jmmv, em abqtt pidm i twvo eig bw ow.

Ia em twws izwcvl bpm kwcvbzg, uivg wn wcz apwzbkwuqvoa abivl wcb qv jwtl
zmtqmn.

Em izm acnnmzqvo nzwu mfkmaaqdmtg pqop xzqkma.

Wcz xzwlckbqwv qa abqtt vwb tizom mvwcop bw aibqang wcz lmuivla.

Wcz uqvqucu eioma izm niz bww twe.

Auitt jcaqvmaa qa twaqvo ozwcvl bw ozweqvo uwvwxwtg.

Wcz nizumza abqtt nikm iv cvkmzbiqv ncbczm. Ivl bww uivg wn bpmu tiks bpm
jmvmnqba wn wcz uwlmzv kqdqtqhibqwv.

Awum wn wcz vibczit zmawczkma izm abqtt jmqvo eiabml.

Em izm ikcbmtg apwzb wn mtmkbzqk xwemz, itbpwcop bpm umiva nwz lmdmtwxqvo
ackp xwemz izm ijcvlivb.

Nqdm uqttqwv niuqtqma izm abqtt tqdqvo qv atcua ivl nqzmbzixa. Bpzmm
uqttqwv niuqtqma apizm bpmqz pwuma eqbp wbpmza.

Wcz pmitbp qa niz jmpqvl bpm xzwozmaa wn umlqkit akqmvkm. Xzwxmz umlqkit
kizm qa aw mfxmvaqdm bpib qb qa wcb wn bpm zmikp wn bpm ozmib uirwzqbg wn
wcz kqbqhmva.

Wcz akpwwta, qv uivg twkitqbqma, izm cbbmztg qvilmycibm.

Wcz lmuwkzibqk qlmita izm wnbmv bpeizbml jg xzmrclqkm ivl qvbwtmzivkm.

Mikp wn bpmam apwzbkwuqvoa qa itaw iv wxxwzbcvqbg-iv wxxwzbcvqbg nwz bpm
Kwvozmaa ivl bpm Xzmaqlmvb bw ewzs nwz bpm owwl wn bpm xmwxtm.

Wcz nqzab ozmib wxxwzbcvqbg qa bw xzwbmkb wcz mkwvwug ioiqvab bpm mdqta wn
"jwwu ivl jcab."

Bpqa wjrmkbqdm kivvwb jm ibbiqvml jg owdmzvumvb itwvm. Qvlmml, bpm ozmibmz
xizb wn bpm bias ucab jm xmznwzuml jg qvlqdqlcit mnnwzba cvlmz wcz agabmu
wn nzmm mvbmzxzqam. Em kiv smmx wcz xzmamvb xzwaxmzqbg, ivl qvkzmiam qb,
wvtg qn nzmm mvbmzxzqam ivl nzmm owdmzvumvb ewzs bwombpmz bw bpib mvl.

Em kivvwb innwzl bw ntwib itwvo kmiamtmaatg wv i xwabeiz jwwu cvbqt qb
kwttixama. Qb qa vwb mvwcop umzmtg bw xzmxizm bw emibpmz i zmkmaaqwv qn qb
kwuma. Qvabmil, owdmzvumvb ivl jcaqvmaa ucab ewzs bwombpmz kwvabivbtg bw
ikpqmdm uwzm ivl uwzm rwja ivl uwzm ivl uwzm xzwlckbqwv--epqkp umiv uwzm
ivl uwzm xzwaxmzqbg nwz itt bpm xmwxtm.

Bpm jcaqvmaa kgktm qa uiv-uilm; ivl umv wn owwl eqtt, ewzsqvo bwombpmz, kiv
auwwbp qb wcb.

Aw niz ia jcaqvmaa qa kwvkmzvml, qb apwctl xtiv nwz abmilg, dqowzwca
mfxivaqwv--ammsqvo iteiga bw qvkzmiam qba wcbxcb, twemz qba xzqkma, ivl
idwql bpm dqkma wn uwvwxwtg ivl zmabzqkbqwv. Aw twvo ia jcaqvmaa lwma bpqa,
qb eqtt jm kwvbzqjcbqvo bw kwvbqvcml xzwaxmzqbg, ivl qb eqtt pidm bpm pmtx
ivl mvkwcziomumvb wn bpm Owdmzvumvb.

Bpm Muxtwgumvb Ikb wn 1946 xtmloma bpm Owdmzvumvb bw cam itt qba zmawczkma
bw xzwuwbm uifqucu muxtwgumvb, xzwlckbqwv, ivl xczkpiaqvo xwemz. Bpqa umiva
bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb qa nqzutg kwuuqbbml bw xzwbmkb jcaqvmaa ivl bpm xmwxtm
ioiqvab bpm livomza wn zmkmaaqwv ivl ioiqvab bpm mdqta wn qvntibqwv. Bpqa
umiva bpib bpm Owdmzvumvb ucab ilixb qba xtiva ivl xwtqkqma bw ummb
kpivoqvo kqzkcuabivkma.

Ib bpm xzmamvb bqum, wcz xzwaxmzqbg qa bpzmibmvml jg qvntibqwvizg xzmaaczma
ib i vcujmz wn kzqbqkit xwqvba qv wcz mkwvwug. Ivl bpm Owdmzvumvb ucab jm
qv i xwaqbqwv bw bism mnnmkbqdm ikbqwv ib bpmam livomz axwba. Bw bpib mvl,
Q zmkwuumvl bpib bpm Kwvozmaa mvikb tmoqatibqwv nwz bpm nwttweqvo
xczxwama:

Nqzab, bw kwvbqvcm bpm xwemz bw kwvbzwt kwvacumz kzmlqb ivl mvtizom bpm
xwemz bw kwvbzwt jivs kzmlqb.

Amkwvl, bw ozivb icbpwzqbg bw zmoctibm axmkctibqwv wv bpm kwuuwlqbg
mfkpivoma.

Bpqzl, bw kwvbqvcm mfxwzb kwvbzwt icbpwzqbg ivl bw xzwdqlm ilmycibm
uikpqvmzg nwz qba mvnwzkmumvb.

Nwczbp, bw kwvbqvcm bpm xzqwzqbqma ivl ittwkibqwv icbpwzqbg qv bpm nqmtl wn
bzivaxwzbibqwv.

Nqnbp, bw icbpwzqhm xzqwzqbqma ivl ittwkibqwva nwz smg uibmzqita qv apwzb
acxxtg.

Aqfbp, bw mfbmvl ivl abzmvobpmv zmvb kwvbzwt.

Amdmvbp, bw xzwdqlm abivljg icbpwzqbg bw quxwam xzqkm kmqtqvoa nwz akizkm
kwuuwlqbqma epqkp jiaqkittg innmkb maamvbqit qvlcabzqit xzwlckbqwv wz bpm
kwab wn tqdqvo, ivl bw tquqb cvrcabqnqml eiom ilrcabumvba epqkp ewctl nwzkm
i jzmis qv iv mabijtqapml xzqkm kmqtqvo.

Mqopbp, bw icbpwzqhm iv quumlqibm abclg wn bpm ilmycikg wn xzwlckbqwv
nikqtqbqma nwz uibmzqita qv kzqbqkittg apwzb acxxtg, ackp ia abmmt; ivl, qn
nwcvl vmkmaaizg, bw icbpwzqhm Owdmzvumvb twiva nwz bpm mfxivaqwv wn
xzwlckbqwv nikqtqbqma bw zmtqmdm ackp apwzbioma, ivl bw icbpwzqhm bpm
kwvabzckbqwv wn ackp nikqtqbqma lqzmkbtg, qn ikbqwv jg xzqdibm qvlcabzg
niqta bw ummb wcz vmmla.

Bpm Mkwvwuqk Zmxwzb, epqkp Q apitt acjuqb bw bpm Kwvozmaa apwzbtg, eqtt
lqakcaa qv lmbiqt bpm mkwvwuqk jiksozwcvl nwz bpmam zmkwuumvlibqwva.

Wvm wn bpm uwab quxwzbivb nikbwza qv uiqvbiqvqvo xzwaxmzqbg qa bpm
Owdmzvumvb'a nqakit xwtqkg. Ib bpqa bqum, qb qa maamvbqit vwb wvtg bpib bpm
Nmlmzit jclomb jm jitivkml, jcb itaw bpib bpmzm jm i acjabivbqit aczxtca bw
zmlckm qvntibqwvizg xzmaaczma, ivl bw xmzuqb i aqhijtm zmlckbqwv qv bpm
vibqwvit lmjb, epqkp vwe abivla ib $252 jqttqwv. Q zmkwuumvl, bpmzmnwzm,
bpib bpm Kwvozmaa mvikb vme bif tmoqatibqwv bw jzqvo qv iv illqbqwvit $4
jqttqwv wn Owdmzvumvb zmdmvcm. Bpqa apwctl kwum xzqvkqxittg nzwu illqbqwvit
kwzxwzibm bifma. I xwzbqwv apwctl kwum nzwu zmdqaml mabibm ivl oqnb bifma.
Kwvaqlmzibqwv apwctl jm oqdmv bw ziqaqvo xmzawvit qvkwum zibma qv bpm
uqlltm ivl cxxmz jziksmba.

Qn em eivb bw smmx wcz mkwvwug zcvvqvo qv pqop omiz, em ucab jm aczm bpib
mdmzg ozwcx pia bpm qvkmvbqdm bw uism qba nctt kwvbzqjcbqwv bw bpm vibqwvit
emtnizm. Ib xzmamvb, bpm ewzsqvo umv ivl ewumv wn bpm Vibqwv izm cvniqztg
lqakzquqvibml ioiqvab jg i abibcbm bpib ijzqloma bpmqz zqopba, kczbiqta
bpmqz kwvabzckbqdm mnnwzba, ivl piuxmza wcz agabmu wn nzmm kwttmkbqdm
jizoiqvqvo. Bpib abibcbm qa bpm Tijwz-Uiviomumvb Zmtibqwva Ikb wn 1947,
awumbquma kittml bpm Binb-Pizbtmg Ikb.

Bpib ikb apwctl jm zmxmitml!

Bpm Eiovmz Ikb apwctl jm zmmvikbml. Pwemdmz, kmzbiqv quxzwdmumvba, epqkp Q
zmkwuumvlml bw bpm Kwvozmaa 2 gmiza iow, izm vmmlml. Rczqalqkbqwvit abzqsma
ivl cvrcabqnqml amkwvlizg jwgkwbba apwctl jm xzwpqjqbml. Bpm cam wn
mkwvwuqk nwzkm bw lmkqlm qaacma izqaqvo wcb wn bpm qvbmzxzmbibqwv wn
mfqabqvo kwvbzikba apwctl jm xzmdmvbml. Eqbpwcb mvlivomzqvo wcz lmuwkzibqk
nzmmlwua, umiva apwctl jm xzwdqlml nwz ambbqvo cx uikpqvmzg nwz xzmdmvbqvo
abzqsma qv dqbit qvlcabzqma epqkp innmkb bpm xcjtqk qvbmzmab.

Bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Tijwz apwctl jm zmjcqtb ivl abzmvobpmvml ivl bpwam cvqba
xzwxmztg jmtwvoqvo eqbpqv bpib lmxizbumvb apwctl jm xtikml qv qb.

Bpm pmitbp wn wcz mkwvwug ivl qba uiqvbmvivkm ib pqop tmdmta nczbpmz
zmycqzm bpib bpm uqvqucu eiom nqfml jg tie apwctl jm ziqaml bw ib tmiab 75
kmvba iv pwcz.

Qn wcz nzmm mvbmzxzqam mkwvwug qa bw jm abzwvo ivl pmitbpg, em ucab
zmqvdqowzibm bpm nwzkma wn kwuxmbqbqwv. Em ucab iaaczm auitt jcaqvmaa bpm
nzmmlwu ivl wxxwzbcvqbg bw ozwe ivl xzwaxmz. Bw bpqa xczxwam, em apwctl
abzmvobpmv wcz ivbqbzcab tiea jg ktwaqvo bpwam twwxpwtma bpib xmzuqb
uwvwxwtqabqk umzomza ivl kwvawtqlibqwva.

Wcz vibqwvit nizu xzwoziu apwctl jm quxzwdml-vwb wvtg qv bpm qvbmzmab wn
bpm nizumza, jcb nwz bpm tiabqvo xzwaxmzqbg wn bpm epwtm Vibqwv. Wcz owita
apwctl jm ijcvlivb nizu xzwlckbqwv ivl xizqbg qvkwum nwz iozqkctbczm.
Abivlizla wn tqdqvo wv bpm nizu apwctl jm rcab ia owwl ia ivgepmzm mtam qv
bpm kwcvbzg.

Nizu xzqkm acxxwzba izm iv maamvbqit xizb wn wcz xzwoziu bw ikpqmdm bpmam
mvla. Xzqkm acxxwzba apwctl jm caml bw xzmdmvb nizu xzqkm lmktqvma epqkp
izm wcb wn tqvm eqbp omvmzit xzqkm tmdmta, bw nikqtqbibm ilrcabumvba qv
xzwlckbqwv bw kwvacumz lmuivla, ivl bw xzwuwbm owwl tivl cam. Wcz xzqkm
acxxwzb tmoqatibqwv ucab jm ilixbml bw bpmam wjrmkbqdma. Bpm icbpwzqbg wn
bpm Kwuuwlqbg Kzmlqb Kwzxwzibqwv bw xzwdqlm ilmycibm abwziom axikm nwz
kzwxa apwctl jm zmabwzml.

Wcz xzwoziu nwz nizu xzwaxmzqbg apwctl itaw amms bw mfxivl bpm lwumabqk
uizsmb nwz iozqkctbczit xzwlckba, xizbqkctiztg iuwvo twe-qvkwum ozwcxa, ivl
bw qvkzmiam ivl abijqtqhm nwzmqov uizsmba.

Em apwctl oqdm axmkqit ibbmvbqwv bw mfbmvlqvo uwlmzv kwvdmvqmvkma ivl
amzdqkma bw wcz nizua. Zczit mtmkbzqnqkibqwv apwctl jm xcapml nwzeizl. Ivl
qv kwvaqlmzqvo tmoqatibqwv zmtibqvo bw pwcaqvo, mlckibqwv, pmitbp, ivl
awkqit amkczqbg, axmkqit ibbmvbqwv apwctl jm oqdmv bw zczit xzwjtmua.

Wcz ozweqvo xwxctibqwv ivl bpm mfxivaqwv wn wcz mkwvwug lmxmvl cxwv bpm
eqam uiviomumvb wn wcz tivl, eibmz, nwzmab, ivl uqvmzit emitbp. Qv wcz
xzmamvb lgviuqk mkwvwug, bpm bias wn kwvamzdibqwv qa vwb bw twkscx wcz
zmawczkma jcb bw lmdmtwx ivl quxzwdm bpmu. Niqtczm, bwlig, bw uism bpm
qvdmabumvba epqkp izm vmkmaaizg bw acxxwzb wcz xzwozmaa qv bpm ncbczm ewctl
jm nitam mkwvwug.

Em ucab xcap nwzeizl bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn wcz zqdmza nwz xwemz, qzzqoibqwv,
vidqoibqwv, ivl ntwwl kwvbzwt. Em apwctl ixxtg bpm tmaawva wn wcz Bmvvmaamm
Dittmg mfxmzqmvkm bw wcz wbpmz ozmib zqdmz jiaqva.

Q ioiqv zmkwuumvl ikbqwv jm bismv jg bpm Kwvozmaa bw ixxzwdm bpm Ab.
Tiezmvkm Amieig ivl Xwemz xzwrmkb. Bpqa qa ijwcb bpm nqnbp bqum Q pidm
zmkwuumvlml qb.

Em ucab ilwxb i xzwoziu nwz bpm xtivvml cam wn bpm xmbzwtmcu zmamzdma cvlmz
bpm ami, epqkp izm--ivl ucab zmuiqv--dmabml qv bpm Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb. Em
ucab mfbmvl wcz xzwoziua wn awqt kwvamzdibqwv. Em ucab xtikm wcz nwzmaba wv
i acabiqvml gqmtl jiaqa, ivl mvkwcziom bpm lmdmtwxumvb wn vme awczkma wn
dqbit uqvmzita.

Qv itt bpqa em ucab uism aczm bpib bpm jmvmnqba wn bpmam xcjtqk
cvlmzbisqvoa izm lqzmkbtg idiqtijtm bw bpm xmwxtm. Xcjtqk xwemz apwctl jm
kizzqml bw kwvacuqvo izmia jg xcjtqk bzivauqaaqwv tqvma epmzm vmkmaaizg bw
xzwdqlm mtmkbzqkqbg ib bpm twemab xwaaqjtm zibma. Qzzqoibqwv eibmza apwctl
amzdm niuqtg nizua ivl vwb tivl axmkctibwza.

Bpm Owdmzvumvb pia abqtt wbpmz wxxwzbcvqbqma--bw pmtx ziqam bpm abivlizl wn
tqdqvo wn wcz kqbqhmva. Bpmam wxxwzbcvqbqma tqm qv bpm nqmtla wn awkqit
amkczqbg, pmitbp, mlckibqwv, pwcaqvo, ivl kqdqt zqopba.

Bpm xzmamvb kwdmziom wn bpm awkqit amkczqbg tiea qa itbwombpmz qvilmycibm;
bpm jmvmnqb xigumvba izm bww twe. Wvm-bpqzl wn wcz ewzsmza izm vwb kwdmzml.
Bpwam epw zmkmqdm wtl-iom ivl aczdqdwza qvaczivkm jmvmnqba zmkmqdm iv
idmziom xigumvb wn wvtg $25 i uwvbp. Uivg wbpmza epw kivvwb ewzs jmkicam
bpmg izm xpgaqkittg lqaijtml izm tmnb bw bpm umzkg wn kpizqbg. Em apwctl
mfxivl wcz awkqit amkczqbg xzwoziu, jwbp ia bw bpm aqhm wn bpm jmvmnqba ivl
bpm mfbmvb wn kwdmziom, ioiqvab bpm mkwvwuqk pihizla lcm bw cvmuxtwgumvb,
wtl iom, aqksvmaa, ivl lqaijqtqbg.

Em ucab axizm vw mnnwzb bw ziqam bpm omvmzit tmdmt wn pmitbp qv bpqa
kwcvbzg. Qv i vibqwv ia zqkp ia wcza, qb qa i apwksqvo nikb bpib bmva wn
uqttqwva tiks ilmycibm umlqkit kizm. Em izm apwzb wn lwkbwza, pwaxqbita,
vczama. Em ucab zmumlg bpmam apwzbioma. Uwzmwdmz, em vmml--ivl em ucab pidm
eqbpwcb nczbpmz lmtig--i agabmu wn xzmxiql umlqkit qvaczivkm epqkp eqtt
mvijtm mdmzg Iumzqkiv bw innwzl owwl umlqkit kizm.

Qb qa mycittg apwksqvo bpib uqttqwva wn wcz kpqtlzmv izm vwb zmkmqdqvo i
owwl mlckibqwv. Uqttqwva wn bpmu izm qv wdmzkzwelml, wjawtmbm jcqtlqvoa. Em
izm apwzb wn bmikpmza, jmkicam bmikpmza' aitizqma izm bww twe bw ibbzikb
vme bmikpmza, wz bw pwtl bpm wvma em pidm. Itt bpmam akpwwt xzwjtmua eqtt
jmkwum uckp uwzm ikcbm ia i zmactb wn bpm bzmumvlwca qvkzmiam qv bpm
mvzwttumvb qv wcz mtmumvbizg akpwwta qv bpm vmfb nme gmiza. Q kivvwb zmxmib
bww abzwvotg ug lmaqzm nwz xzwuxb Nmlmzit nqvivkqit iql bw bpm Abibma bw
pmtx bpmu wxmzibm ivl uiqvbiqv bpmqz akpwwt agabmua.

Bpm owdmzvumvbit iomvkg epqkp vwe iluqvqabmza bpm xzwoziua wn pmitbp,
mlckibqwv, ivl awkqit amkczqbg apwctl jm oqdmv nctt lmxizbumvbit abibca.

Bpm pwcaqvo apwzbiom kwvbqvcma bw jm ikcbm. Ia iv quumlqibm abmx, bpm
Kwvozmaa apwctl mvikb bpm xzwdqaqwva nwz twe-zmvb xcjtqk pwcaqvo, atcu
ktmizivkm, nizu pwcaqvo, ivl pwcaqvo zmamizkp epqkp Q pidm zmxmibmltg
zmkwuumvlml. Bpm vcujmz wn twe-zmvb xcjtqk pwcaqvo cvqba xzwdqlml nwz qv bpm
tmoqatibqwv apwctl jm qvkzmiaml bw 1 uqttqwv cvqba qv bpm vmfb 7 gmiza.
Mdmv bpqa vcujmz wn cvqba eqtt vwb jmoqv bw ummb wcz vmml nwz vme pwcaqvo.

Uwab wn bpm pwcama em vmml eqtt pidm bw jm jcqtb jg xzqdibm mvbmzxzqam,
eqbpwcb xcjtqk acjaqlg. Jg xzwlckqvo bww nme zmvbit cvqba ivl bww tizom i
xzwxwzbqwv wn pqop-xzqkml pwcama, bpm jcqtlqvo qvlcabzg qa zixqltg xzqkqvo
qbamtn wcb wn bpm uizsmb. Jcqtlqvo kwaba ucab jm twemzml.

Bpm Owdmzvumvb qa vwe mvoioml qv i kiuxiqov bw qvlckm itt amoumvba wn bpm
jcqtlqvo qvlcabzg bw kwvkmvbzibm wv bpm xzwlckbqwv wn twemz xzqkml pwcaqvo.
Illqbqwvit tmoqatibqwv bw mvkwcziom ackp pwcaqvo eqtt jm acjuqbbml.

Bpm icbpwzqbg epqkp Q pidm zmycmabml, bw ittwkibm uibmzqita qv apwzb acxxtg
ivl bw quxwam xzqkm kmqtqvoa wv ackp uibmzqita, kwctl jm caml, qn nwcvl
vmkmaaizg, bw kpivvmt uwzm uibmzqita qvbw pwuma tizom mvwcop nwz niuqtg
tqnm ib xzqkma epqkp eiom mizvmza kiv innwzl.

Bpm lzqdqvo nwzkm jmpqvl wcz xzwozmaa qa wcz niqbp qv wcz lmuwkzibqk
qvabqbcbqwva. Bpib niqbp qa mujwlqml qv bpm xzwuqam wn mycit zqopba ivl
mycit wxxwzbcvqbqma epqkp bpm nwcvlmza wn wcz Zmxcjtqk xzwktiquml bw bpmqz
kwcvbzgumv ivl bw bpm epwtm ewztl.

Bpm nctnqttumvb wn bpqa xzwuqam qa iuwvo bpm pqopmab xczxwama wn
owdmzvumvb. Bpm kqdqt zqopba xzwxwaita Q uilm bw bpm 80bp Kwvozmaa, Q vwe
zmxmib bw bpm 81ab Kwvozmaa. Bpmg apwctl jm mvikbml qv wzlmz bpib bpm
Nmlmzit Owdmzvumvb uig iaacum bpm tmilmzapqx ivl lqakpizom bpm wjtqoibqwva
lmiztg xtikml cxwv qb jg bpm Kwvabqbcbqwv.

Q abivl aycizmtg jmpqvl bpwam xzwxwaita.

Wcz lwumabqk xzwoziua izm bpm nwcvlibqwv wn wcz nwzmqov xwtqkg. Bpm ewztl
bwlig twwsa bw ca nwz tmilmzapqx jmkicam em pidm aw tizomtg zmitqhml,
eqbpqv wcz jwzlmza, bpwam jmvmnqba wn lmuwkzibqk owdmzvumvb nwz epqkp uwab
wn bpm xmwxtma wn bpm ewztl izm gmizvqvo.

Em izm nwttweqvo i nwzmqov xwtqkg epqkp qa bpm wcbeizl mfxzmaaqwv wn bpm
lmuwkzibqk niqbp em xzwnmaa. Em izm lwqvo epib em kiv bw mvkwcziom nzmm
abibma ivl nzmm xmwxtma bpzwcopwcb bpm ewztl, bw iql bpm acnnmzqvo ivl
inntqkbml qv nwzmqov tivla, ivl bw abzmvobpmv lmuwkzibqk vibqwva ioiqvab
ioozmaaqwv.

Bpm pmizb wn wcz nwzmqov xwtqkg qa xmikm. Em izm acxxwzbqvo i ewztl
wzoivqhibqwv bw smmx xmikm ivl i ewztl mkwvwuqk xwtqkg bw kzmibm xzwaxmzqbg
nwz uivsqvl. Wcz ocqlqvo abiz qa bpm xzqvkqxtm wn qvbmzvibqwvit
kwwxmzibqwv. Bw bpqa kwvkmxb em pidm uilm i vibqwvit kwuuqbumvb ia xzwnwcvl
ia ivgbpqvo qv pqabwzg.

Bw qb em pidm xtmloml wcz zmawczkma ivl wcz pwvwz.

Cvbqt i agabmu wn ewztl amkczqbg qa mabijtqapml cxwv epqkp em kiv ainmtg
zmtg, em kivvwb makixm bpm jczlmv wn kzmibqvo ivl uiqvbiqvqvo izuml nwzkma
acnnqkqmvb bw lmbmz ioozmaaqwv. Em pidm uilm ozmib xzwozmaa qv bpm tiab
gmiz qv bpm mnnmkbqdm wzoivqhibqwv wn wcz Izuml Nwzkma, jcb nczbpmz
quxzwdmumvba qv wcz vibqwvit amkczqbg tmoqatibqwv izm vmkmaaizg. Cvqdmzait
bziqvqvo qa maamvbqit bw bpm amkczqbg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma.

Lczqvo bpm kwczam wn bpqa amaaqwv Q apitt pidm wkkiaqwv bw ias bpm Kwvozmaa
bw kwvaqlmz amdmzit umiaczma qv bpm nqmtl wn nwzmqov xwtqkg. Ib bpqa bqum,
Q zmkwuumvl bpib em zmabwzm bpm Zmkqxzwkit Bzilm Iozmmumvba Ikb bw nctt
mnnmkbqdmvmaa, ivl mfbmvl qb nwz 3 gmiza. Em apwctl itaw wxmv wcz lwwza bw
lqaxtikml xmzawva eqbpwcb cvniqz lqakzquqvibqwv.

Qb apwctl jm ktmiz jg vwe bw itt kqbqhmva bpib em izm vwb ammsqvo bw nzmmhm
bpm abibca ycw. Em pidm vw qvbmvbqwv wn xzmamzdqvo bpm qvrcabqkma wn bpm
xiab. Em emtkwum bpm kwvabzckbqdm mnnwzba jmqvo uilm jg uivg vibqwva bw
ikpqmdm i jmbbmz tqnm nwz bpmqz kqbqhmva. Qv bpm Mczwxmiv zmkwdmzg xzwoziu,
qv wcz owwl-vmqopjwz xwtqkg ivl qv bpm Cvqbml Vibqwva, em pidm jmocv bw
jibbmz lwev bpwam vibqwvit eitta epqkp jtwks bpm mkwvwuqk ozwebp ivl bpm
awkqit ildivkmumvb wn bpm xmwxtma wn bpm ewztl.

Em jmtqmdm bpib qn em pwtl zmawtcbmtg bw bpqa kwczam, bpm xzqvkqxtm wn
qvbmzvibqwvit kwwxmzibqwv eqtt mdmvbcittg kwuuivl bpm ixxzwdit mdmv wn
bpwam vibqwva epqkp izm vwe ammsqvo bw emismv wz acjdmzb qb.

Em abivl ib bpm wxmvqvo wn iv mzi epqkp kiv umiv mqbpmz ozmib ikpqmdmumvb
wz bmzzqjtm kibiabzwxpm nwz wczamtdma ivl nwz itt uivsqvl.

Bpm abzmvobp wn wcz Vibqwv ucab kwvbqvcm bw jm caml qv bpm qvbmzmab wn itt
wcz xmwxtm zibpmz bpiv i xzqdqtmoml nme. Qb ucab kwvbqvcm bw jm caml
cvamtnqaptg qv bpm abzcootm nwz ewztl xmikm ivl bpm jmbbmzumvb wn uivsqvl
bpm ewztl wdmz.

Bpqa qa bpm bias jmnwzm ca.

Qb qa vwb iv miag wvm. Qb pia uivg kwuxtqkibqwva, ivl bpmzm eqtt jm abzwvo
wxxwaqbqwv nzwu amtnqap qvbmzmaba.

Q pwxm nwz kwwxmzibqwv nzwu nizumza, nzwu tijwz, ivl nzwu jcaqvmaa. Mdmzg
amoumvb wn wcz xwxctibqwv ivl mdmzg qvlqdqlcit pia i zqopb bw mfxmkb nzwu
wcz Owdmzvumvb i niqz lmit.

Qv 1945, epmv Q kium lwev jmnwzm bpm Kwvozmaa nwz bpm nqzab bqum wv Ixzqt
16, Q ycwbml bw gwc Sqvo Awtwuwv'a xzigmz bpib pm eivbml eqalwu ivl bpm
ijqtqbg bw owdmzv pqa xmwxtm ia bpmg apwctl jm owdmzvml. Q mfxtiqvml bw gwc
ib bpib bqum bpib bpm bias jmnwzm um eia wvm wn bpm ozmibmab qv bpm pqabwzg
wn bpm ewztl, ivl bpib qb eia vmkmaaizg bw pidm bpm kwuxtmbm kwwxmzibqwv wn
bpm Kwvozmaa ivl bpm xmwxtm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma.

Emtt vwe, em izm bisqvo i vme abizb eqbp bpm aium aqbcibqwv. Qb qa
ijawtcbmtg maamvbqit bpib gwcz Xzmaqlmvb pidm bpm kwuxtmbm kwwxmzibqwv wn
bpm Kwvozmaa bw kizzg wcb bpm ozmib ewzs bpib ucab jm lwvm bw smmx bpm
xmikm qv bpqa ewztl, ivl bw smmx bpqa kwcvbzg xzwaxmzwca.

Bpm xmwxtm wn bpqa ozmib kwcvbzg pidm i zqopb bw mfxmkb bpib bpm Kwvozmaa
ivl bpm Xzmaqlmvb eqtt ewzs qv ktwamab kwwxmzibqwv eqbp wvm wjrmkbqdm--bpm
emtnizm wn bpm xmwxtm wn bpqa Vibqwv ia i epwtm.

Qv bpm uwvbpa ipmil Q svwe bpib Q apitt jm ijtm bw kwwxmzibm eqbp bpqa
Kwvozmaa.

Vwe, Q iu kwvnqlmvb bpib bpm Lqdqvm Xwemz epqkp pia ocqlml ca bw bpqa bqum
wn nibmnct zmaxwvaqjqtqbg ivl otwzqwca wxxwzbcvqbg eqtt vwb lmamzb ca vwe.

Eqbp bpib pmtx nzwu Ituqopbg Owl epqkp em pidm pcujtg iksvwetmloml ib mdmzg
bczvqvo xwqvb qv wcz vibqwvit tqnm, em apitt jm ijtm bw xmznwzu bpm ozmib
biasa epqkp Pm vwe amba jmnwzm ca.