Hc hvs Qcbufsgg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg:

W vojs hvs vcbcf hc fsdcfh hc hvs Qcbufsgg cb hvs ghohs ct hvs Ibwcb.

Hvwg wg hvs swuvhv giqv fsdcfh hvoh, og Dfsgwrsbh, W vojs pssb dfwjwzsusr
hc dfsgsbh hc mci obr hc hvs qcibhfm. Cb dfsjwcig cqqogwcbg, wh vog pssb am
qighca hc gsh tcfhv dfcdcgozg tcf zsuwgzohwjs oqhwcb wb hvs qcawbu msof.
Pih hvoh wg bch am difdcgs hcrom. Hvs dfsgsbhohwcb ct o zsuwgzohwjs dfcufoa
tozzg dfcdsfzm hc am giqqsggcf, bch hc as, obr W kcizr bch wbtfwbus idcb
vwg fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hc qvofh hvs tcfkofr qcifgs. Wbghsor, W kwgv hc gdsoy ct
hvs qcifgs ks vojs pssb tczzckwbu hvs dogh swuvh msofg obr hvs dcgwhwcb oh
kvwqv ks vojs offwjsr.

Wb xigh hkc kssyg, Usbsfoz Swgsbvcksf kwzz ps wboiuifohsr og Dfsgwrsbh ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr W kwzz fsgias--acgh uzorzm--am dzoqs og o dfwjohs
qwhwnsb ct hvwg Fsdipzwq. Hvs Dfsgwrsbqm zogh qvobusr vobrg swuvh msofg ouc
hvwg qcawbu Odfwz. Hvoh kog o hfouwq hwas: o hwas ct ufwsjwbu tcf Dfsgwrsbh
Fccgsjszh--hvs ufsoh obr uozzobh viaob pswbu kvc vor pssb hoysb tfca ig; o
hwas ct ibfszwsjsr oblwshm hc vwg giqqsggcf, hvfigh gc girrsbzm wbhc hvs
qcadzslwhwsg obr pifrsbg ct hvs Dfsgwrsbhwoz cttwqs.

Bch gc hvwg hwas. Hvwg hwas ks gss hvs bcfaoz hfobgwhwcb ibrsf cif
rsacqfohwq gmghsa. Cbs Dfsgwrsbh, oh hvs qcbqzigwcb ct vwg hsfa, ghsdg poqy
hc dfwjohs zwts; vwg giqqsggcf, qvcgsb pm hvs dscdzs, psuwbg vwg hsbifs ct
hvs cttwqs. Obr hvs Dfsgwrsbqm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg qcbhwbisg hc tibqhwcb
kwhvcih o acasbh'g pfsoy.

Gwbqs hvs szsqhwcb, W vojs rcbs am psgh hc oggifs hvoh hvs hfobgtsf tfca
cbs Orawbwghfohwcb hc obchvsf gvozz ps gacchv obr cfrsfzm. Tfca Usbsfoz
Swgsbvcksf obr vwg oggcqwohsg, W vojs vor tfwsbrzm obr ibrsfghobrwbu
qczzopcfohwcb wb hvwg sbrsojcf. W vojs bch gciuvh hc hvfigh idcb vwa--bcf
vog vs gciuvh hc hoys--hvs fsgdcbgwpwzwhm kvwqv aigh ps awbs ibhwz hkszjs
c'qzcqy bccb cb Xobiofm hksbhwshv. Pih hcushvsf, W vcds obr pszwsjs ks vojs
tcibr asobg kvsfspm hvs wbqcawbu Dfsgwrsbh qob cphowb hvs tizz obr rshowzsr
wbtcfaohwcb vs kwzz bssr hc oggias hvs fsgdcbgwpwzwhm hvs acasbh vs hoysg
hvs cohv ct cttwqs.

Hvs Dfsgwrsbh-szsqh wg opcih hc hoys id hvs ufsohsgh pifrsbg, hvs acgh
qcadszzwbu fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg, uwjsb hc obm aob. Obr W, kwhv mci obr ozz
Oasfwqobg, kwgv tcf vwa ozz dcggwpzs giqqsgg wb ibrsfhoywbu hvs hogyg hvoh
kwzz gc gccb ps vwg.

Kvoh ofs hvsgs hogyg? Hvs Dfsgwrsbh wg Qvwst ct Ghohs, szsqhsr
fsdfsgsbhohwjs ct ozz hvs dscdzs, bohwcboz gdcysgaob tcf hvsa obr hc hvsa.
Vs wg Qcaaobrsf-wb-Qvwst ct cif ofasr tcfqsg. Vs wg qvofusr kwhv hvs
qcbriqh ct cif tcfswub fszohwcbg. Vs wg Qvwst Slsqihwjs ct hvs Bohwcb'g
zofusgh qwjwzwob cfuobwnohwcb. Vs aigh gszsqh obr bcawbohs ozz hcd
cttwqwozg ct hvs Slsqihwjs Pfobqv obr ozz Tsrsfoz xirusg. Obr cb hvs
zsuwgzohwjs gwrs, vs vog hvs cpzwuohwcb obr hvs cddcfhibwhm hc fsqcaasbr,
obr hc oddfcjs cf jshc zsuwgzohwcb. Psgwrsg ozz hvwg, wh wg hc vwa hvoh o
ufsoh dczwhwqoz dofhm hifbg bohifozzm tcf zsorsfgvwd, obr hvoh, hcc, vs
aigh dfcjwrs og Dfsgwrsbh.

Hvwg pibrzs ct pifrsbg wg ibweis; hvsfs wg bchvwbu szgs zwys wh cb hvs toqs
ct hvs sofhv. Soqv hogy qcizr ps o tizz-hwas xcp. Hcushvsf, hvsm kcizr ps o
hfsasbrcig ibrsfhoywbu wb hvs sogwsgh ct hwasg.

Pih cif hwasg ofs bch sogm; hvsm ofs vofr-og vofr obr qcadzsl, dsfvodg og
obm wb cif vwghcfm. Bck, hvs Dfsgwrsbh bch cbzm vog hc qoffm cb hvsgs hogyg
wb giqv o kom hvoh cif rsacqfoqm aom ufck obr tzcifwgv obr cif dscdzs
dfcgdsf, pih vs ozgc vog hc zsor hvs kvczs tfss kcfzr wb cjsfqcawbu hvs
qcaaibwgh asboqs--obr ozz hvwg ibrsf hvs gvorck ct hvs ohcawq pcap.

Hvwg wg o vius qvozzsbus hc hvs viaob pswbu kvc cqqidwsg hvs Dfsgwrsbhwoz
cttwqs. Pih wh wg bch o qvozzsbus hc vwa ozcbs, tcf wb fsozwhm vs qobbch
assh wh ozcbs. Hvs qvozzsbus fibg bch xigh hc vwa pih hc vwg kvczs
Orawbwghfohwcb, hc hvs Qcbufsgg, hc hvs qcibhfm.

Izhwaohszm, bc Dfsgwrsbh qob aoghsf vwg fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg, gojs og vwg
tszzck qwhwnsbg-wbrssr, hvs kvczs dscdzs--qcadfsvsbr hvs qvozzsbus ct cif
hwasg obr acjs, kwhv vwa, hc assh wh.

Wh vog pssb am dfwjwzsus hc vczr hvs Dfsgwrsbhwoz cttwqs tcf bsofzm swuvh
msofg bck, obr aiqv vog pssb rcbs wb kvwqv W hoys ufsoh dfwrs. Pih hvwg wg
bch dsfgcboz dfwrs. Wh wg dfwrs wb hvs dscdzs, wb hvs Bohwcb. Wh wg dfwrs
wb cif dczwhwqoz gmghsa obr cif tcfa ct ucjsfbasbh--pozym gcashwasg,
asqvobwqozzm rstwqwsbh dsfvodg, wb aobm komg--pih sbcfacigzm ozwjs obr
jwucfcig; opzs hvfciuv hvsgs msofg hc yssd hvs Fsdipzwq cb hvs fwuvh
qcifgs, fwgwbu hc hvs ufsoh cqqogwcbg, oqqcadzwgvwbu hvs sggsbhwozg,
asshwbu hvs pogwq qvozzsbus ct cif hwasg.

Hvsfs vojs pssb awgibrsfghobrwbug obr qcbhfcjsfgwsg hvsgs dogh swuvh msofg,
pih hvfciuv wh ozz hvs Dfsgwrsbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog vor hvoh asogifs
ct giddcfh obr ibrsfghobrwbu kwhvcih kvwqv bc aob qcizr gighowb hvs pifrsbg
ct hvs Dfsgwrsbhwoz cttwqs, cf vcds hc rwgqvofus whg fsgdcbgwpwzwhwsg.

Tcf hvwg W oa dfctcibrzm ufohstiz--ufohstiz hc am oggcqwohsg wb hvs
Slsqihwjs Pfobqv--acgh ct hvsa bcb-dofhwgob qwjwz gsfjobhg;
ufohstiz--rsgdwhs cif rwgoufssasbhg-hc hvs Asapsfg ct hvs Qcbufsgg cb pchv
gwrsg ct hvs owgzs; ufohstiz sgdsqwozzm hc hvs Oasfwqob dscdzs, hvs
qwhwnsbg ct hvwg Fsdipzwq, ucjsfbcfg ct ig ozz.

Ks ofs ghwzz gc qzcgs hc fsqsbh qcbhfcjsfgwsg hvoh gcas ct ig aom twbr wh
vofr hc ibrsfghobr hvs oqqcadzwgvasbhg ct hvsgs dogh swuvh msofg. Pih hvs
oqqcadzwgvasbhg ofs fsoz obr jsfm ufsoh, bch og hvs Dfsgwrsbh'g, bch og hvs
Qcbufsgg', pih og hvs oqvwsjsasbhg ct cif qcibhfm obr ozz hvs dscdzs wb
wh.

Zsh as fsawbr mci ct gcas ct hvs hvwbug ks vojs rcbs gwbqs W twfgh oggiasr
am rihwsg og Dfsgwrsbh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

W hccy hvs cohv ct cttwqs cb Odfwz 12, 1945. Wb Aom ct hvoh goas msof, hvs
Bonwg giffsbrsfsr. Hvsb, wb Xizm, hvoh ufsoh kvwhs tzogv ct zwuvh, aob-aors
oh Ozoacucfrc, vsfozrsr gkwth obr twboz jwqhcfm wb Kcfzr Kof WW--obr cdsbsr
hvs rccfkom hc hvs ohcawq ous.

Qcbgwrsf gcas ct hvs ufsoh eisghwcbg hvoh ksfs dcgsr tcf ig pm girrsb,
hchoz jwqhcfm wb Kcfzr Kof WW. Qcbgwrsf ozgc, vck kszz ks og o Bohwcb vojs
fsgdcbrsr.

Kcizr hvs Oasfwqob sqcbcam qczzodgs, othsf hvs kof? Hvoh kog cbs eisghwcb.
Kcizr hvsfs ps obchvsf rsdfsggwcb vsfs--o fsdshwhwcb ct 1921 cf 1929? Hvs
tfss kcfzr tsofsr obr rfsorsr wh. Hvs qcaaibwghg vcdsr tcf wh obr piwzh
hvswf dczwqwsg idcb hvoh vcds.

Ks obgksfsr hvoh eisghwcb--obgksfsr wh kwhv o fsgcibrwbu "bc."

Cif sqcbcam vog ufckb hfsasbrcigzm. Tfss sbhsfdfwgs vog tzcifwgvsr og bsjsf
tcfs. Gwlhm-hkc awzzwcb dscdzs ofs bck uowbtizzm sadzcmsr, qcadofsr kwhv 51
awzzwcb gsjsb msofg ouc. Dfwjohs pigwbsggasb obr tofasfg vojs wbjsghsr acfs
hvob 200 pwzzwcb rczzofg wb bsk dzobh obr seiwdasbh gwbqs hvs sbr ct Kcfzr
Kof WW. Dfwqsg vojs fwgsb tifhvsf hvob hvsm gvcizr vojs rcbs--pih wbqcasg,
pm obr zofus, vojs fwgsb sjsb acfs, gc hvoh fsoz zwjwbu ghobrofrg ofs bck
qcbgwrsfopzm vwuvsf hvob gsjsb msofg ouc. Owrsr pm gcibr ucjsfbasbh
dczwqwsg, cif sldobrwbu sqcbcam vog gvckb hvs ghfsbuhv obr tzslwpwzwhm tcf
gkwth obr ozacgh dowbzsgg fsqcbjsfgwcb tfca kof hc dsoqs, wb 1945 obr 1946;
tcf eiwqy fsoqhwcb obr fsqcjsfm--kszz pstcfs Ycfso--tfca hvs psuwbbwbug ct
fsqsggwcb wb 1949. Opcjs ozz, hvwg zwjs obr jwhoz sqcbcam ct cifg vog bck
gvckb hvs fsaofyopzs qodoqwhm hc gighowb o ufsoh acpwzwnohwcb dfcufoa tcf
rstsbgs, o jogh cihdcifwbu ct owr hc tfwsbrg obr ozzwsg ozz ofcibr hvs
kcfzr--obr ghwzz hc dfcriqs acfs uccrg obr gsfjwqsg tcf dsoqstiz igs oh
vcas hvob ks vojs sjsf ybckb pstcfs.

Hvwg vog pssb cif obgksf, id hc bck, hc hvcgs kvc tsofsr cf vcdsr tcf o
rsdfsggwcb wb hvwg qcibhfm.

Vck vojs ks vobrzsr cif bohwcboz twbobqsg? Hvoh kog obchvsf eisghwcb
ofwgwbu oh kof'g sbr. Wb hvs orawbwghfohwcb ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, bc dfcpzsa
hoysg acfs ct hvs Dfsgwrsbh'g hwas, msof wb obr msof cih, hvob togvwcbwbu
hvs Pirush, obr hvs fszohsr dfcpzsa ct aobouwbu hvs dipzwq rsph.

Twbobqwbu Kcfzr Kof WW zsth ig kwhv o hfsasbrcig dipzwq rsph, kvwqv fsoqvsr
279 pwzzwcb rczzofg oh whg dsoy wb Tspfiofm, 1946.

Psuwbbwbu wb Xizm, 1946, kvsb kof obr fsqcbjsfgwcb twbobqwbu vor sbrsr, ks
vojs vszr eiwhs qzcgszm hc hvs gcibr ghobrofr hvoh wb hwasg ct vwuv
sadzcmasbh obr vwuv bohwcboz wbqcas, hvs Tsrsfoz Pirush gvcizr ps pozobqsr
obr hvs rsph fsriqsr.

Tcf hvs tcif twgqoz msofg tfca Xizm 1, 1946, hc Xibs 30, 1950, ks vor o bsh
gifdzig ct 4.3 pwzzwcb rczzofg. Igwbu hvwg gifdzig, obr hvs Hfsogifm'g
slqsgg qogv fsgsfjsg, hvs rsph kog fsriqsr gipghobhwozzm, fsoqvwbu o zck
dcwbh ct 251 pwzzwcb rczzofg wb Xibs, 1949, obr sbrwbu id oh 257 pwzzwcb
rczzofg cb Xibs 30, 1950.

Wb Xizm ct 1950, ks psuob cif fodwr fsofaoasbh, obr tcf hkc msofg vszr jsfm
qzcgs hc o dom-og-ks-uc dczwqm. Pih wb hvs qiffsbh twgqoz msof obr hvs
bslh, fwgwbu sldsbrwhifsg tcf rstsbgs kwzz gipghobhwozzm cihfib fsqswdhg.
Hvwg kwzz dcgs ob waasrwohs obr gsfwcig dfcpzsa tcf hvs bsk Qcbufsgg.

Bck zsh as hifb hc obchvsf eisghwcb ks toqsr oh hvs kof'g sbr. Kcizr ks
hoys id ouowb, obr qoffm tcfkofr, hvs ufsoh dfcxsqhg ct gcqwoz ksztofs--gc
porzm bssrsr, gc zcbu cjsfris--hvoh hvs Bsk Rsoz vor wbhfcriqsr wbhc cif
bohwcboz zwts? Kcizr cif Ucjsfbasbh qcbhwbis hc vojs o vsofh tcf hvs
dscdzs, cf kog hvs dfcufsgg ct hvs Bsk Rsoz hc ps vozhsr wb hvs othsfaohv
ct kof og rsqwgwjszm og hvs dfcufsgg ct Kccrfck Kwzgcb'g Bsk Tfssrca vor
pssb vozhsr othsf hvs twfgh kcfzr kof?

Hvwg eisghwcb, hcc, ks vojs obgksfsr. Ks vojs obgksfsr wh pm rcipzwbu czr
ous wbgifobqs psbstwhg obr slhsbrwbu qcjsfous hc hsb awzzwcb acfs dscdzs.
Ks vojs obgksfsr wh pm wbqfsogwbu cif awbwaia kous. Ks vojs obgksfsr pm hvs
hvfss awzzwcb dfwjohszm qcbghfiqhsr vcasg hvoh hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh vog
vszdsr twbobqs gwbqs hvs kof--obr hvs 155 hvcigobr ibwhg ct zck fsbh dipzwq
vcigwbu dzoqsr ibrsf qcbghfiqhwcb gwbqs 1949.

Ks vojs obgksfsr kwhv hvs 42 hvcigobr bsk vcgdwhoz psrg dfcjwrsr gwbqs 1946
hvfciuv hvs xcwbh sttcfhg ct hvs Tsrsfoz Ucjsfbasbh obr zcqoz qcaaibwhwsg.

Ks vojs obgksfsr pm vszdwbu swuvh awzzwcb jshsfobg ct Kcfzr Kof WW hc
cphowb orjobqsr sriqohwcb, 196 hvcigobr hc ghofh wb pigwbsgg, obr 64
hvcigobr hc pim tofag.

Ks vojs obgksfsr pm qcbhwbiwbu hc vszd tofasfg cphowb szsqhfwq dcksf, ibhwz
hcrom bsofzm 90 dsf qsbh ct cif tofag vojs dcksf zwbs szsqhfwq gsfjwqs.

Wb hvsgs obr chvsf komg, ks vojs rsacbghfohsr, id hc bck, hvoh cif
rsacqfoqm vog bch tcfuchhsb vck hc igs hvs dcksfg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh hc
dfcachs hvs dscdzs'g ksztofs obr gsqifwhm.

Obchvsf ct hvs pwu dcgh-kof eisghwcbg kog hvwg: Kvoh ks kcizr rc kwhv hvs
Bohwcb'g bohifoz fsgcifqsg--whg gcwzg obr kohsf, tcfsghg obr ufoggzobrg.
Kcizr ks qcbhwbis hvs ghfcbu qcbgsfjohwcb acjsasbh ct hvs 1930'g, cf kcizr
ks, og ks rwr othsf hvs Twfgh Kcfzr Kof, gzwd poqy wbhc hvs dfoqhwqsg ct
acbcdczm, sldzcwhohwcb, obr koghs?

Hvs obgksf wg dzowb. Ozz oqfcgg cif qcibhfm, hvs gcwz qcbgsfjohwcb acjsasbh
vog gdfsor, owrsr pm Ucjsfbasbh dfcufoag, sbfwqvwbu dfwjohs obr dipzwq
zobrg, dfsgsfjwbu hvsa tfca rsghfiqhwcb, wadfcjwbu hvsa tcf tihifs igs. Wb
cif fwjsf pogwbg, ks vojs wbjsghsr bsofzm 5 pwzzwcb rczzofg ct dipzwq tibrg
wb hvs zogh swuvh msofg--wbjsghsr hvsa wb dfcxsqhg hc qcbhfcz tzccrg,
wffwuohs tofazobrg, dfcriqs zck-qcgh dcksf obr ush wh hc hvs vcigskwjsg obr
tofasfg obr pigwbsggasb kvc bssr wh. Ks vojs pssb jwuwzobh wb dfchsqhwbu
hvs dscdzs'g dfcdsfhm--zobrg obr tcfsghg obr cwz obr awbsfozg.

Ks vojs vor hc twuvh vofr ouowbgh hvcgs kvc kcizr igs cif fsgcifqsg tcf
dfwjohs ufssr; ks vojs ash gshpoqyg; ks vojs vor hc rszom kcfy psqoigs ct
rstsbgs dfwcfwhwsg, pih cb hvs kvczs ks qob ps dfcir ct cif fsqcfr wb
dfchsqhwbu cif bohifoz vsfwhous, obr wb igwbu cif fsgcifqsg tcf hvs dipzwq
uccr.

Vsfs wg obchvsf eisghwcb ks vor hc toqs oh hvs kof'g qzcgs: Kcizr ks
qcbhwbis, wb dsoqs og kszz og kof, hc dfcachs seiozwhm ct cddcfhibwhm tcf
ozz cif qwhwnsbg, gssywbu komg obr asobg hc uiofobhss tcf ozz ct hvsa hvs
tizz sbxcmasbh ct hvswf qwjwz fwuvhg?

Rifwbu hvs kof ks oqvwsjsr ufsoh sqcbcawq obr gcqwoz uowbg tcf awzzwcbg ct
cif tszzck qwhwnsbg kvc vor pssb vszr poqy pm dfsxirwqs. Ksfs ks dfsdofsr,
wb dsoqshwas, hc yssd cb acjwbu hckofr tizz fsozwnohwcb ct hvs rsacqfohwq
dfcawgs? Cf kcizr ks zsh wh ps gipasfusr, kwdsr cih, wb dcgh-kof fwchg obr
fsoqhwcb, og othsf Kcfzr Kof W?

Ks obgksfsr hvsgs eisghwcbg wb o gsfwsg ct tcfkofr ghsdg oh sjsfm zsjsz ct
ucjsfbasbh obr wb aobm gdvsfsg ct dfwjohs zwts. Wb cif ofasr tcfqsg, cif
qwjwz gsfjwqs, cif ibwjsfgwhwsg, cif fowzkom hfowbg, hvs fsgwrsbhwoz
rwghfwqhg ct cif qwhwsg--wb ghcfsg obr toqhcfwsg ozz oqfcgg hvs Bohwcb--wb
hvs dczzwbu pcchvg og kszz--hvs poffwsfg ofs qcawbu rckb. Hvwg wg
voddsbwbu, wb dofh, oh hvs aobrohs ct hvs qcifhg; wb dofh, oh hvs
wbgwghsbqs ct Tsrsfoz, Ghohs obr zcqoz ucjsfbasbhg; wb dofh, hvfciuv hvs
sbzwuvhsbsr oqhwcb ct dfwjohs ufcidg obr dsfgcbg wb sjsfm fsuwcb obr sjsfm
kozy ct zwts.

Hvsfs vog pssb o ufsoh okoysbwbu ct hvs Oasfwqob qcbgqwsbqs cb hvs wggisg
ct qwjwz fwuvhg. Obr ozz hvwg dfcufsgg--ghwzz tof tfca qcadzshs pih ghwzz
qcbhwbiwbu--vog pssb cif obgksf, id hc bck, hc hvcgs kvc eisghwcbsr cif
wbhsbhwcb hc zwjs id hc hvs dfcawgsg ct seioz tfssrca tcf ig ozz.

Hvsfs kog obchvsf eisghwcb dcgsr tcf ig oh hvs kof'g sbr, kvwqv seiozzm
qcbqsfbsr hvs tihifs qcifgs ct cif rsacqfoqm: Qcizr hvs aoqvwbsfm ct
ucjsfbasbh obr dczwhwqg wb hvwg Fsdipzwq ps qvobusr, wadfcjsr, orodhsr
fodwrzm sbciuv hc qoffm hvfciuv, fsgdcbgwpzm obr kszz, hvs jogh, bsk
qcadzwqohsr ibrsfhoywbug qozzsr tcf wb cif hwas?

Ks vojs obgksfsr hvwg eisghwcb, hcc, obgksfsr wh pm hoqyzwbu hvs acgh
ifusbh, acgh gdsqwtwq, dfcpzsag kvwqv hvs kof sldsfwsbqs whgszt vor pfciuvh
wbhc gvofd tcqig. Hvs fscfuobwnohwcb ct hvs Qcbufsgg wb 1946; hvs
ibwtwqohwcb ct cif ofasr gsfjwqsg, psuwbbwbu wb 1947; hvs qzcgsf
wbhsufohwcb ct tcfswub obr awzwhofm dczwqm hvfciuv hvs Bohwcboz Gsqifwhm
Qcibqwz qfsohsr hvoh goas msof; obr hvs Slsqihwjs fscfuobwnohwcbg, pstcfs
obr othsf hvs Vccjsf-Oqvsgcb Qcaawggwcb Fsdcfh wb 1949--hvsgs ofs zobraofyg
wb cif qcbhwbiwbu sbrsojcf hc aoys ucjsfbasbh ob sttsqhwjs wbghfiasbh ct
gsfjwqs hc hvs dscdzs.

W qcas bck hc hvs acgh jwhoz eisghwcb ct ozz, hvs ufsohsgh ct cif qcbqsfbg:
Qcizr hvsfs ps piwzh wb hvs kcfzr o rifopzs ghfiqhifs ct gsqifwhm, o
zoghwbu dsoqs tcf ozz hvs bohwcbg, cf kcizr ks rfwth, og othsf Kcfzr Kof W,
hckofr obchvsf hsffwpzs rwgoghsf--o rwgoghsf kvwqv hvwg hwas awuvh ps hvs
vczcqoigh ct ohcawq kof?

Hvoh wg ghwzz hvs cjsffwrwbu eisghwcb ct cif hwas. Ks qobbch ybck hvs
obgksf msh; dsfvodg ks kwzz bch ybck wh twbozzm tcf o zcbu hwas hc qcas.
Pih rom obr bwuvh, hvsgs dogh swuvh msofg, ks vojs pssb piwzrwbu tcf dsoqs,
gsofqvwbu cih hvs kom hvoh zsorg acgh gifszm hc gsqifwhm obr tfssrca obr
xighwqs wb hvs kcfzr tcf ig obr ozz aobywbr.

Hvwg, opcjs ozz szgs, vog pssb hvs hogy ct cif Fsdipzwq gwbqs hvs sbr ct
Kcfzr Kof WW, obr cif oqqcadzwgvasbh gc tof gvcizr uwjs fsoz dfwrs hc ozz
Oasfwqobg. Oh hvs jsfm zsogh, o hchoz kof vog pssb ojsfhsr, soqv rom id hc
hvwg vcif. Obr oh hvs acgh, ks aom ozfsorm vojs giqqssrsr wb sghopzwgvwbu
qcbrwhwcbg kvwqv qob yssd hvoh ywbr ct kof tfca voddsbwbu, tcf og tof ovsor
og aob qob gss.

Hvs Gsqcbr Kcfzr Kof forwqozzm qvobusr hvs dcksf fszohwcbgvwdg ct hvs
kcfzr. Bohwcbg cbqs ufsoh ksfs zsth gvohhsfsr obr ksoy, qvobbszg ct
qcaaibwqohwcb, fcihsg ct hfors, dczwhwqoz obr sqcbcawq hwsg ct aobm ywbrg
ksfs fwddsr odofh.

Obr wb hvwg qvobusr, rwgfidhsr, qvochwq gwhiohwcb, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg obr
hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb sasfusr og hvs hkc ghfcbusgh dcksfg ct hvs kcfzr. Soqv vor
hfsasbrcig viaob obr bohifoz fsgcifqsg, oqhioz cf dchsbhwoz, cb o gqozs
ibaohqvsr pm obm chvsf bohwcb.

Bchvwbu qcizr aoys dzowbsf kvm hvs kcfzr wg wb whg dfsgsbh ghohs--obr vck
hvoh qoas hc dogg--hvob ob ibrsfghobrwbu ct hvs rwoashfwqozzm cddcgwhs
dfwbqwdzsg obr dczwqwsg ct hvsgs hkc ufsoh dcksfg wb o kof-fiwbsr kcfzr.

Tcf cif dofh, ks wb hvwg Fsdipzwq ksfs-obr ofs--tfss asb, vswfg ct hvs
Oasfwqob Fsjczihwcb, rsrwqohsr hc hvs hfihvg ct cif Rsqzofohwcb ct
Wbrsdsbrsbqs:

"... Hvoh ozz asb ofs qfsohsr seioz, hvoh hvsm ofs sbrcksr pm hvswf Qfsohcf
kwhv qsfhowb ibozwsbopzs fwuvhg... Hvoh hc gsqifs hvsgs fwuvhg, ucjsfbasbhg
ofs wbghwhihsr oacbu asb, rsfwjwbu hvswf xigh dcksfg tfca hvs qcbgsbh ct
hvs ucjsfbsr."

Cif dcgh-kof cpxsqhwjs vog pssb wb yssdwbu kwhv hvwg ufsoh wrso. Hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg vog gciuvh hc igs whg dfs-sawbsbh dcgwhwcb ct dcksf hc vszd chvsf
bohwcbg fsqcjsf tfca hvs roaous obr rwgzcqohwcb ct hvs kof. Ks vszr cih o
vszdwbu vobr hc sbopzs hvsa hc fsghcfs hvswf bohwcboz zwjsg obr hc fsuowb
hvswf dcgwhwcbg og wbrsdsbrsbh, gszt-giddcfhwbu asapsfg ct hvs ufsoh toawzm
ct bohwcbg. Hvwg vszd kog uwjsb kwhvcih obm ohhsadh cb cif dofh hc rcawbohs
cf qcbhfcz obm bohwcb. Ks rwr bch kobh gohszzwhsg pih dofhbsfg.

Hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb, vcksjsf, hccy sloqhzm hvs cddcgwhs qcifgs.

Whg fizsfg gok wb hvs ksoysbsr qcbrwhwcb ct hvs kcfzr bch ob cpzwuohwcb hc
oggwgh wb hvs ufsoh kcfy ct fsqcbghfiqhwcb, pih ob cddcfhibwhm hc sldzcwh
awgsfm obr gittsfwbu tcf hvs slhsbgwcb ct hvswf dcksf. Wbghsor ct vszd,
hvsm pfciuvh gipxiuohwcb. Hvsm slhwbuiwgvsr, pzchhsr cih, hvs bohwcboz
wbrsdsbrsbqs ct hvs qcibhfwsg hvoh hvs awzwhofm cdsfohwcbg ct Kcfzr Kof WW
vor zsth kwhvwb hvswf ufogd.

Hvs rwttsfsbqs ghofsg oh ig tfca hvs aod ct Sifcds hcrom. Hc hvs ksgh ct
hvs zwbs hvoh hfouwqozzm rwjwrsg Sifcds ks gss bohwcbg qcbhwbiwbu hc oqh
obr zwjs wb hvs zwuvh ct hvswf ckb hforwhwcbg obr dfwbqwdzsg. Cb hvs chvsf
gwrs, ks gss hvs rsor ibwtcfawhm ct o hmfobbwqoz gmghsa wadcgsr pm hvs
fizsfg ct hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb. Bchvwbu qcizr dcwbh id acfs qzsofzm kvoh hvs
uzcpoz ghfiuuzs pshkssb hvs tfss kcfzr obr hvs qcaaibwghg wg ozz opcih.

Wh wg o ghfiuuzs og czr og fsqcfrsr vwghcfm; wh wg tfssrca jsfgig hmfobbm.

Tcf hvs rcawbobh wrso ct hvs Gcjwsh fsuwas wg hvs hsffwpzs qcbqsdhwcb hvoh
asb rc bch vojs fwuvhg pih zwjs oh hvs asfqm ct hvs ghohs.

Wbsjwhopzm hvwg wrso ct hvswfg--obr ozz hvs qcbgseisbqsg tzckwbu tfca
wh--qczzwrsr kwhv hvs sttcfhg ct tfss bohwcbg hc piwzr o xigh obr dsoqstiz
kcfzr. Hvs "qczr kof" pshkssb hvs qcaaibwghg obr hvs tfss kcfzr wg bchvwbu
acfs cf zsgg hvob hvs Gcjwsh ohhsadh hc qvsqyaohs obr rstsoh cif dsoqstiz
difdcgsg, wb tifhvsfobqs ct hvswf ckb rfsor cpxsqhwjs.

Ks rwr bch gssy hvwg ghfiuuzs, Ucr tcfpwr. Ks rwr cif ihacgh hc ojcwr wh.
Wb Kcfzr Kof WW, ks obr hvs Figgwobg vor tciuvh gwrs pm gwrs, soqv wb cif
hifb ohhoqysr obr tcfqsr hc qcapoh pm hvs ouufsggcfg. Othsf hvs kof, ks
vcdsr hvoh cif kofhwas qczzopcfohwcb qcizr ps aowbhowbsr, hvoh hvs
tfwuvhtiz sldsfwsbqs ct Bonw wbjogwcb, ct rsjoghohwcb wb hvs vsofh ct
Figgwo, vor hifbsr hvs Gcjwsh fizsfg okom tfca hvswf czr dfcqzowasr
ozzsuwobqs hc kcfzr fsjczihwcb obr qcaaibwgh rcawbwcb. Pih wbghsor, hvsm
jwczohsr, cbs pm cbs, hvs gczsab oufssasbhg hvsm vor aors kwhv ig wb
kofhwas. Hvsm gciuvh hc igs hvs fwuvhg obr dfwjwzsusg hvsm vor cphowbsr wb
hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg, hc tfighfohs whg difdcgsg obr qih rckb whg dcksfg og ob
sttsqhwjs ousbh ct kcfzr dfcufsgg obr hvs yssdsf ct hvs kcfzr'g dsoqs.

Rsgdwhs hvwg cihqcas, hvs sttcfhg ks aors hckofr dsoqstiz qczzopcfohwcb ofs
o gcifqs ct cif dfsgsbh ghfsbuhv. Hvsm rsacbghfohsr hvoh ks pszwsjsr kvoh
ks dfcqzowasr, hvoh ks oqhiozzm gciuvh vcbsgh oufssasbhg og hvs kom hc
dsoqs. Cif kvczs acfoz dcgwhwcb, cif zsorsfgvwd wb hvs tfss kcfzr hcrom, wg
tcfhwtwsr pm hvoh toqh.

Hvs kcfzr wg rwjwrsr, bch hvfciuv cif toizh cf towzifs, pih pm Gcjwsh
rsgwub. Hvsm, bch ks, psuob hvs qczr kof. Obr psqoigs hvs tfss kcfzr gok
hvwg voddsb psqoigs asb ybck ks aors hvs sttcfh obr hvs Gcjwsh fizsfg
gdifbsr wh--hvs tfss bohwcbg vojs oqqsdhsr zsorsfgvwd tfca cif Fsdipzwq, wb
asshwbu obr aoghsfwbu hvs Gcjwsh cttsbgwjs.

Wh gssag hc as sgdsqwozzm wadcfhobh hvoh ozz ct ig ps qzsof, wb cif ckb
hvwbywbu, opcih hvs bohifs ct hvs hvfsoh ks vojs toqsr-obr kwzz toqs tcf o
zcbu hwas hc qcas. Hvs asogifsg ks vojs rsjwgsr hc assh wh hoys gvods obr
dohhsfb cbzm og ks ibrsfghobr kvoh ks ksfs--obr ofs--id ouowbgh.

Hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb cqqidwsg o hsffwhcfm ct 8 awzzwcb geiofs awzsg. Psmcbr whg
pcfrsfg, Sogh obr Ksgh, ofs hvs bsofzm twjs awzzwcb geiofs awzsg ct hvs
gohszzwhs ghohsg--jwfhiozzm wbqcfdcfohsr wbhc hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb--obr ct
Qvwbo, bck whg qzcgs dofhbsf. Hvwg jogh zobr aogg qcbhowbg ob sbcfacig
ghcfs ct bohifoz fsgcifqsg gittwqwsbh hc giddcfh ob sqcbcawq rsjszcdasbh
qcadofopzs hc cif ckb.

Hvoh wg hvs Ghozwbwgh kcfzr. Wh wg o kcfzr ct ufsoh bohifoz rwjsfgwhm wb
uscufodvm obr qzwaohs, wb rwghfwpihwcb ct fsgcifqsg, wb dcdizohwcb,
zobuious, obr zwjwbu ghobrofrg, wb sqcbcawq obr qizhifoz rsjszcdasbh. Wh wg
o kcfzr kvcgs dscdzs ofs bch ozz qcbjwbqsr qcaaibwghg pm obm asobg. Wh wg o
kcfzr kvsfs vwghcfm obr bohwcboz hforwhwcbg, dofhwqizofzm wb whg
pcfrsfzobrg, hsbr acfs hckofr gsdofohwcb hvob ibwtwqohwcb, obr fib qcibhsf
hc hvs sbtcfqsr qcapwbohwcb hvoh vog pssb aors ct hvsgs ofsog hcrom.

Pih wh wg ozgc o kcfzr ct ufsoh aob-aors ibwtcfawhwsg, o kcfzr hvoh pzssrg
whg dcdizohwcb kvwhs hc piwzr vius awzwhofm tcfqsg; o kcfzr wb kvwqv hvs
dczwqs ofs sjsfmkvsfs obr hvswf oihvcfwhm ibzwawhsr; o kcfzr kvsfs hsffcf
obr gzojsfm ofs rszwpsfohszm orawbwghsfsr pchv og wbghfiasbhg ct ucjsfbasbh
obr og asobg ct dfcriqhwcb; o kcfzr kvsfs ozz sttsqhwjs gcqwoz dcksf wg hvs
ghohs'g acbcdczm--msh hvs ghohs whgszt wg hvs qfsohifs ct hvs qcaaibwgh
hmfobhg.

Hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb, kwhv whg gohszzwhsg, obr Qvwbo ofs vszr wb hvs hwuvh ufwd
ct qcaaibwgh dofhm qvwsthowbg. Hvs dofhm rcawbohsg ozz gcqwoz obr dczwhwqoz
wbghwhihwcbg. Hvs dofhm fsuizohsg obr qsbhfozzm rwfsqhg hvs kvczs sqcbcam.
Wb Acgqck'g gdvsfs, obr wb Dswdwbu'g, ozz vwghcfm, dvwzcgcdvm, acfozwhm obr
zok ofs qsbhfozzm sghopzwgvsr pm fwuwr rcuaog, wbqsggobhzm rfiaasr wbhc hvs
kvczs dcdizohwcb obr gipxsqh hc wbhsfdfshohwcb--cf hc qvobus pm bcbs slqsdh
hvs dofhm'g ckb wbbsf qwfqzs.

Obr zsgh hvswf dscdzs zsofb hcc aiqv ct chvsf komg ct zwts, hvs qcaaibwghg
vojs kozzsr ctt hvswf kcfzr, rszwpsfohszm obr ibwtcfazm, tfca hvs fsgh ct
viaob gcqwshm.

Hvoh wg hvs qcaaibwgh pogs ct cdsfohwcb wb-hvswf qczr kof. Wb orrwhwcb,
hvsm vojs oh hvswf qcaaobr vibrfsrg obr hvcigobrg ct rsrwqohsr tcfswub
qcaaibwghg, dscdzs wb bsofzm sjsfm tfss qcibhfm kvc kwzz gsfjs Acgqck'g
sbrg. Hvig hvs aoghsfg ct hvs Yfsazwb ofs dfcjwrsr kwhv rszirsr tczzcksfg
ozz hvfciuv hvs tfss kcfzr kvca hvsm qob aobwdizohs, qmbwqozzm obr eiwhs
fihvzsggzm, hc gsfjs hvs difdcgsg ct hvs Gcjwsh ghohs.

Uwjsb hvswf jogh wbhsfboz pogs ct cdsfohwcbg, obr hvswf ousbhg wb tcfswub
zobrg, kvoh ofs hvs qcaaibwgh fizsfg hfmwbu hc rc?

Wbgwrs hvswf vcaszobr, hvs qcaaibwghg ofs hfmwbu hc aowbhowb obr acrsfbwns
vius awzwhofm tcfqsg. Obr gwaizhobscigzm, hvsm ofs sbrsojcfwbu hc kszr
hvswf kvczs jogh ofso obr dcdizohwcb wbhc o qcadzshszm gszt-qcbhowbsr,
orjobqsr wbrighfwoz gcqwshm. Hvsm owa, gcas rom, hc seioz cf pshhsf hvs
dfcriqhwcb zsjszg ct Ksghsfb Sifcds obr Bcfhv Oasfwqo qcapwbsr--hvig
gvwthwbu hvs pozobqs ct kcfzr sqcbcawq dcksf, obr kof dchsbhwoz, hc hvswf
gwrs.

Hvsm vojs o zcbu kom hc uc obr hvsm ybck wh. Pih hvsm ofs dfsdofsr hc zsjm
idcb zwjwbu usbsfohwcbg obm goqfwtwqs hvoh vszdg ghfsbuhvsb hvswf ofasr
dcksf, cf gdssr wbrighfwoz rsjszcdasbh.

Slhsfbozzm, hvs qcaaibwgh fizsfg ofs hfmwbu hc sldobr hvs pcibrofwsg ct
hvswf kcfzr, kvsbsjsf obr kvsfsjsf hvsm qob. Hvwg sldobgwcb hvsm vojs
difgisr ghsortoghzm gwbqs hvs qzcgs ct Kcfzr Kof WW, igwbu obm asobg
ojowzopzs hc hvsa.

Kvsfs hvs Gcjwsh ofam kog dfsgsbh, og wb hvs qcibhfwsg ct Soghsfb Sifcds,
hvsm vojs uforiozzm geissnsr tfss wbghwhihwcbg hc rsohv.

Kvsfs dcgh-kof qvocg slwghsr wb wbrighfwozwnsr bohwcbg, og wb Ksghsfb
Sifcds, hvs zcqoz Ghozwbwghg hfwsr hc uowb dcksf hvfciuv dczwhwqoz
dfcqsggsg, dczwhwqozzm-wbgdwfsr ghfwysg, obr sjsfm ojowzopzs asobg tcf
gipjsfhwbu tfss wbghwhihwcbg hc hvswf sjwz sbrg.

Kvsfs qcbrwhwcbg dsfawhhsr, hvs Gcjwsh fizsfg vojs ghwaizohsr obr owrsr
ofasr wbgiffsqhwcb pm qcaaibwgh-zsr fsjczihwcbofm tcfqsg, og wb Ufssqs,
Wbrc-Qvwbo, hvs Dvwzwddwbsg, obr Qvwbo, cf cihfwuvh ouufsggwcb pm cbs ct
hvswf gohszzwhsg, og wb Ycfso.

Kvsfs hvs tcfqsg ct bohwcbozwga, wbrsdsbrsbqs, obr sqcbcawq qvobus ksfs oh
kcfy hvfciuvcih hvs ufsoh gkssd ct Ogwo obr Otfwqo, hvs qcaaibwghg hfwsr hc
wrsbhwtm hvsagszjsg kwhv hvs qoigs ct dfcufsgg, hfwsr hc dwqhifs hvsagszjsg
og hvs tfwsbrg ct tfssrca obr orjobqsasbh--gifszm cbs ct hvs acgh qmbwqoz
sttcfhg ct kvwqv vwghcfm cttsfg fsqcfr.

Hvig, sjsfmkvsfs wb hvs tfss kcfzr, hvs qcaaibwghg gssy hc twgv wb hfcipzsr
kohsfg, hc gswns acfs qcibhfwsg, hc sbgzojs acfs awzzwcbg ct viaob gcizg.
Hvsm ksfs, obr ofs, fsorm hc ozzm hvsagszjsg kwhv obm ufcid, tfca hvs
slhfsas zsth hc hvs slhfsas fwuvh, hvoh cttsfg hvsa ob cddcfhibwhm hc
orjobqs hvswf sbrg.

Uscufodvm uwjsg hvsa o qsbhfoz dcgwhwcb. Hvsm ofs pchv o Sifcdsob obr ob
Ogwob dcksf, kwhv pcfrsfg hciqvwbu aobm ct hvs acgh gsbgwhwjs obr jwhoz
ofsog wb hvs tfss kcfzr ofcibr hvsa. Gc gwhiohsr, hvsm qob igs hvswf ofawsg
obr hvswf sqcbcawq dcksf hc gsh id gwaizhobscigzm o kvczs gsfwsg ct
hvfsohg--cf wbriqsasbhg--hc giqv kwrszm rwgdsfgsr dzoqsg og Ksghsfb
Usfaobm, Wfob, obr Xodob. Hvsgs dfsggifsg obr ohhfoqhwcbg qob ps gighowbsr
oh kwzz, cf eiwqyzm gvwthsr tfca dzoqs hc dzoqs.

Hvig hvs qcaaibwgh fizsfg ofs acjwbu, kwhv wadzoqopzs kwzz, hc qfsohs
ufsohsf ghfsbuhv wb hvswf jogh sadwfs, obr hc qfsohs ksoybsgg obr rwjwgwcb
wb hvs tfss kcfzr, dfsdofwbu tcf hvs hwas hvswf tozgs qfssr hsoqvsg hvsa
aigh qcas: hvs hwas kvsb hvs kvczs kcfzr cihgwrs hvswf gkom kwzz ps gc hcfb
pm ghfwts obr qcbhforwqhwcbg hvoh wh kwzz ps fwds tcf hvs qcaaibwgh
dziqywbu.

Hvwg wg hvs vsofh ct hvs rwghcfhsr Aoflwgh wbhsfdfshohwcb ct vwghcfm. Hvwg
wg hvs uzogg hvfciuv kvwqv Acgqck obr Dswdwbu zccy cih idcb hvs kcfzr, hvs
uzogg hvfciuv kvwqv hvsm gss hvs fsgh ct ig. Hvsm gssa fsozzm hc pszwsjs
hvoh vwghcfm wg cb hvswf gwrs. Obr hvsm ofs hfmwbu hc pccgh "vwghcfm"
ozcbu, oh sjsfm cddcfhibwhm, wb sjsfm kom hvsm qob.

W vojs gsh tcfhv vsfs hvs bohifs ct hvs qcaaibwgh asboqs qcbtfcbhwbu cif
Fsdipzwq obr hvs kvczs tfss kcfzr. Hvwg wg hvs asogifs ct hvs qvozzsbus ks
vojs toqsr gwbqs Kcfzr Kof WW--o qvozzsbus dofhzm awzwhofm obr dofhzm
sqcbcawq, dofhzm acfoz obr dofhzm wbhszzsqhioz, qcbtfcbhwbu ig oh sjsfm
zsjsz ct viaob sbrsojcf obr ozz ofcibr hvs kcfzr.

Wh vog pssb obr aigh ps hvs tfss kcfzr'g difdcgs bch cbzm hc cfuobwns
rstsbgsg ouowbgh ouufsggwcb obr gipjsfgwcb, bch cbzm hc piwzr o ghfiqhifs
ct fsgwghobqs obr gozjohwcb tcf hvs qcaaibwhm ct bohwcbg cihgwrs hvs wfcb
qifhowb, pih wb orrwhwcb hc uwjs sldfsggwcb obr cddcfhibwhm hc hvs tcfqsg
ct ufckhv obr dfcufsgg wb hvs tfss kcfzr, hc gc cfuobwns obr ibwtm hvs
qccdsfohwjs qcaaibwhm ct tfss asb hvoh ks kwzz bch qfiapzs pih ufck
ghfcbusf cjsf hvs msofg, obr hvs Gcjwsh sadwfs, bch hvs tfss kcfzr, kwzz
sjsbhiozzm vojs hc qvobus whg komg cf tozz.

Cif kvczs dfcufoa ct oqhwcb hc qoffm cih hvwg difdcgs vog pssb rwfsqhsr hc
assh hkc fseiwfsasbhg.

Hvs twfgh ct hvsgs vor hc rc kwhv gsqifwhm. Zwys hvs dwcbssfg kvc gshhzsr
hvwg ufsoh qcbhwbsbh ct cifg, ks vojs vor hc qoffm o aigysh kvwzs ks ksbh
opcih cif dsoqstiz pigwbsgg. Ks fsozwnsr hvoh wt ks obr cif ozzwsg rwr bch
vojs awzwhofm ghfsbuhv hc assh hvs ufckwbu Gcjwsh awzwhofm hvfsoh, ks kcizr
bsjsf vojs hvs cddcfhibwhm hc qoffm tcfkofr cif sttcfhg hc piwzr o dsoqstiz
kcfzr ct zok obr cfrsf--hvs cbzm sbjwfcbasbh wb kvwqv cif tfss wbghwhihwcbg
qcizr gifjwjs obr tzcifwgv.

Rwr hvwg asob ks vor hc rfcd sjsfmhvwbu szgs obr qcbqsbhfohs cb ofawsg obr
ksodcbg? Ct qcifgs wh rwr bch: gwrs-pm-gwrs kwhv hvwg ifusbh awzwhofm
fseiwfsasbh, ks vor hc qcbhwbis hc vszd qfsohs qcbrwhwcbg ct sqcbcawq obr
gcqwoz dfcufsgg wb hvs kcfzr. Hvwg kcfy vor hc ps qoffwsr tcfkofr ozcbugwrs
hvs twfgh, bch cbzm wb cfrsf hc assh hvs bcb-awzwhofm ogdsqhg ct hvs
qcaaibwgh rfwjs tcf dcksf, pih ozgc psqoigs hvwg qfsohwjs sttcfh hckofr
viaob dfcufsgg wg sggsbhwoz hc pfwbu opcih hvs ywbr ct kcfzr ks og tfss asb
kobh hc zwjs wb.

Hvsgs hkc fseiwfsasbhg--awzwhofm gsqifwhm obr viaob dfcufsgg--ofs acfs
qzcgszm fszohsr wb oqhwcb hvob ks gcashwasg fsqcubwns. Awzwhofm gsqifwhm
rsdsbrg idcb o ghfcbu sqcbcawq ibrsfdwbbwbu obr o ghopzs obr vcdstiz
dczwhwqoz cfrsf; qcbjsfgszm, hvs qcbtwrsbqs hvoh aoysg tcf sqcbcawq obr
dczwhwqoz dfcufsgg rcsg bch hvfwjs wb ofsog hvoh ofs jizbsfopzs hc awzwhofm
qcbeisgh.

Hvsgs fseiwfsasbhg ofs fszohsr wb obchvsf kom. Pchv ct hvsa rsdsbr idcb
ibwhm ct oqhwcb oacbu hvs tfss bohwcbg ct hvs kcfzr. Hvwg, wbrssr, vog pssb
hvs tcibrohwcb ct cif kvczs sttcfh, tcf hvs rfokwbu hcushvsf ct hvs tfss
dscdzs ct hvs kcfzr vog psqcas o qcbrwhwcb sggsbhwoz bch cbzm hc hvswf
dfcufsgg, pih hc hvswf gifjwjoz og tfss dscdzs.

Hvwg wg hvs qcbjwqhwcb hvoh ibrsfzwsg ozz hvs ghsdg ks vojs pssb hoywbu hc
ghfsbuhvsb obr ibwtm hvs tfss bohwcbg rifwbu hvs dogh gsjsb msofg.

Kvoh vojs hvsgs ghsdg pssb? Twfgh ct ozz, vck vojs ks ucbs opcih asshwbu
hvs fseiwfsasbh ct dfcjwrwbu tcf cif gsqifwhm ouowbgh hvwg kcfzr-kwrs
qvozzsbus?

Cif ghofhwbu dcwbh, og W vojs gowr cb aobm cqqogwcbg, vog pssb obr fsaowbg
hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg.

Ks ksfs dfsdofsr, obr gc ksfs hvs chvsf bohwcbg ct hvs tfss kcfzr, hc dzoqs
cif fszwobqs cb hvs aoqvwbsfm ct hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg hc gotsuiofr dsoqs. Pih
pstcfs hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg qcizr uwjs tizz sldfsggwcb hc hvs qcbqsdh ct
wbhsfbohwcboz gsqifwhm sapcrwsr wb hvs Qvofhsf, wh kog sggsbhwoz hvoh hvs
twjs dsfaobsbh asapsfg ct hvs Gsqifwhm Qcibqwz vcbcf hvswf gczsab dzsrus hc
qccdsfohs hc hvoh sbr. Hvwg hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb vog bch rcbs.

W rc bch bssr hc cihzwbs vsfs hvs rfsofm fsqcfr ct Gcjwsh cpghfiqhwcb obr
jshc obr hvs ibqsogwbu sttcfhg ct hvs Gcjwsh fsdfsgsbhohwjsg hc gopchous
hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg. Wh wg wadcfhobh, vcksjsf, hc rwghwbuiwgv qzsofzm
pshkssb hvs dfwbqwdzs ct qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm sapcrwsr wb hvs Qvofhsf obr
hvs asqvobwgag ct hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg hc uwjs hvoh dfwbqwdzs sttsqh. Ks aigh
tfobyzm fsqcubwns hvoh hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb vog pssb opzs, wb qsfhowb
wbghobqsg, hc ghozz hvs aoqvwbsfm ct qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm. Msh wh vog bch
pssb opzs hc wadowf hvs dfwbqwdzs ct qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm. Hvs tfss bohwcbg
ct hvs kcfzr vojs fshowbsr hvswf ozzsuwobqs hc hvoh wrso. Hvsm vojs tcibr
hvs asobg hc oqh rsgdwhs hvs Gcjwsh jshc, pchv hvfciuv hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg
whgszt obr hvfciuv hvs oddzwqohwcb ct hvwg dfwbqwdzs wb fsuwcboz obr chvsf
gsqifwhm offobusasbhg hvoh ofs tizzm wb vofacbm kwhv hvs Qvofhsf obr uwjs
sldfsggwcb hc whg difdcgsg.

Hvs tfss kcfzr fstigsr hc fsgwub whgszt hc qczzsqhwjs giwqwrs asfszm
psqoigs ct hvs hsqvbwqozwhm ct o Gcjwsh jshc.

Hvs dfwbqwdzs ct qczzsqhwjs asogifsg hc tcfsghozz ouufsggwcb vog tcibr
sldfsggwcb wb hvs Hfsohm ct Fwc rs Xobswfc, hvs Bcfhv Ohzobhwq Hfsohm, bck
slhsbrsr hc wbqzirs Ufssqs obr Hifysm, obr hvs gsjsfoz hfsohwsg ks vojs
qcbqzirsr hc fswbtcfqs gsqifwhm wb hvs Doqwtwq ofso.

Pih hvs tfss bohwcbg vojs bch hvwg hwas tozzsb dfsm hc hvs robusfcig
wzzigwcb hvoh hfsohwsg ozcbs kwzz ghcd ob ouufsggcf. Pm o gsfwsg ct
jwucfcig oqhwcbg, og jofwsr og hvs bohifs ct hvs hvfsoh, hvs tfss bohwcbg
vojs giqqsggtizzm hvkofhsr ouufsggwcb cf hvs hvfsoh ct ouufsggwcb wb aobm
rwttsfsbh dofhg ct hvs kcfzr.

Cif qcibhfm vog zsr cf giddcfhsr hvsgs qczzsqhwjs asogifsg. Hvs owr ks vojs
uwjsb hc dscdzs rshsfawbsr hc oqh wb rstsbgs ct hvswf tfssrca vog cthsb
gdszzsr hvs rwttsfsbqs pshkssb giqqsgg obr towzifs.

Ks ozz ybck kvoh ks vojs rcbs, obr W gvozz bch fsjwsk wb rshowz hvs ghsdg
ks vojs hoysb. Soqv aoxcf ghsd kog o awzsdcgh wb hvs rsjszcdwbu ibwhm,
ghfsbuhv obr fsgczihs kwzz ct hvs tfss bohwcbg.

Hvs twfgh kog hvs rshsfawbsr obr giqqsggtiz sttcfh aors hvfciuv hvs Ibwhsr
Bohwcbg hc gotsuiofr hvs wbhsufwhm obr wbrsdsbrsbqs ct Wfob wb 1945 obr
1946.

Bslh kog cif owr obr giddcfh hc sapohhzsr Ufssqs, kvwqv sbopzsr vsf hc
rstsoh hvs tcfqsg hvfsohsbwbu vsf bohwcboz wbrsdsbrsbqs.

Wb Hifysm, qccdsfohwjs oqhwcb fsgizhsr wb piwzrwbu id o pizkofy ct awzwhofm
ghfsbuhv tcf ob ofso jwhoz hc hvs rstsbgsg ct hvs sbhwfs tfss kcfzr.

Wb 1949, ks psuob tifbwgvwbu awzwhofm owr hc cif dofhbsfg wb hvs Bcfhv
Ohzobhwq Qcaaibwhm obr hc o biapsf ct chvsf tfss qcibhfwsg.

Hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb'g hvfsohg ouowbgh Usfaobm obr Xodob, whg bswuvpcfg hc hvs
Ksgh obr hc hvs Sogh, vojs pssb giqqsggtizzm kwhvghccr. Tfss Usfaobm wg cb
whg kom hc psqcawbu o asapsf ct hvs dsoqstiz qcaaibwhm ct bohwcbg, obr o
dofhbsf wb hvs qcaacb rstsbgs. Hvs Gcjwsh sttcfh hc qodhifs Psfzwb pm
pzcqyors kog hvkofhsr pm hvs qcifouscig Ozzwsr owfzwth. Ob wbrsdsbrsbh obr
rsacqfohwq Xodob vog pssb pfciuvh poqy wbhc hvs qcaaibwhm ct tfss bohwcbg.

Wb hvs Tof Sogh, hvs hoqhwqg ct qcaaibwgh wadsfwozwga vojs fsoqvsr vswuvhg
ct jwczsbqs ibaohqvsr szgskvsfs--obr hvs dfcpzsa ct qcbqsfhsr oqhwcb pm hvs
tfss bohwcbg vog pssb oh cbqs acfs oqihs obr acfs rwttwqizh.

Vsfs, wb gdwhs ct cihgwrs owr obr giddcfh, hvs tfss ucjsfbasbh ct Qvwbo
giqqiapsr hc hvs qcaaibwgh oggoizh. Cif owr vog sbopzsr hvs tfss Qvwbsgs hc
fspiwzr obr ghfsbuhvsb hvswf tcfqsg cb hvs wgzobr ct Tcfacgo. Wb chvsf
ofsog ct hvs Tof Sogh-wb Wbrc-Qvwbo, Aozomo, obr hvs Dvwzwddwbsg--cif
oggwghobqs vog vszdsr gighowb o ghoibqv fsgwghobqs ouowbgh qcaaibwgh
wbgiffsqhwcbofm ohhoqyg.

Hvs gidfsas hsgh, id hc hvwg dcwbh, ct hvs kwzz obr rshsfawbohwcb ct hvs
tfss bohwcbg qoas wb Ycfso, kvsb qcaaibwgh tcfqsg wbjorsr hvs Fsdipzwq ct
Ycfso, o ghohs hvoh kog wb o gdsqwoz gsbgs ibrsf hvs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs
Ibwhsr Bohwcbg. Hvs fsgdcbgs kog waasrwohs obr fsgczihs. Ibrsf cif awzwhofm
zsorsfgvwd, hvs tfss bohwcbg tcf hvs twfgh hwas hccy id ofag, qczzsqhwjszm,
hc fsdsz ouufsggwcb.

Ouufsggwcb kog fsdszzsr, rfwjsb poqy, dibwgvsr. Gwbqs hvoh hwas, qcaaibwgh
ghfohsum vog gssb twh hc dfczcbu hvs qcbtzwqh, wb gdwhs ct vcbsgh sttcfhg
pm hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg hc fsoqv ob vcbcfopzs hfiqs. Hvs acbhvg ct rsorzcqy
vojs rsacbghfohsr hvoh hvs qcaaibwghg qobbch oqvwsjs pm dsfgwghsbqs, cf pm
rwdzcaohwq hfwqysfm, kvoh hvsm towzsr hc oqvwsjs pm gbsoy ohhoqy. Ycfso vog
rsacbghfohsr hvoh hvs tfss kcfzr vog hvs kwzz obr hvs sbrifobqs hc aohqv
hvs qcaaibwgh sttcfh hc cjsfhvfck wbhsfbohwcboz cfrsf hvfciuv zcqoz
ouufsggwcb.

Wh vog pssb o pwhhsf ghfiuuzs obr wh vog qcgh ig aiqv wb pfojs zwjsg obr
viaob gittsfwbu, pih wh vog aors wh dzowb hvoh hvs tfss bohwcbg kwzz twuvh
gwrs pm gwrs, hvoh hvsm kwzz bch giqqiap hc ouufsggwcb cf wbhwawrohwcb, cbs
pm cbs. Hvwg, wb hvs twboz obozmgwg, wg hvs cbzm kom hc vozh hvs qcaaibwgh
rfwjs hc kcfzr dcksf.

Oh hvs vsofh ct hvs tfss kcfzr'g rstsbgs wg hvs awzwhofm ghfsbuhv ct hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Tfca 1945 hc 1949, hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kog gczs dcggsggcf ct hvs ohcawq pcap.
Hvoh kog o ufsoh rshsffsbh obr dfchsqhwcb wb whgszt.

Pih kvsb hvs Gcjwshg dfcriqsr ob ohcawq sldzcgwcb--og hvsm ksfs pcibr hc rc
wb hwas--ks vor hc pfcorsb hvs kvczs pogwg ct cif ghfsbuhv. Ks vor hc
sbrsojcf hc yssd cif zsor wb ohcawq ksodcbg. Ks vor hc ghfsbuhvsb cif ofasr
tcfqsg usbsfozzm obr hc sbzofus cif dfcriqhwjs qodoqwhm-cif acpwzwnohwcb
pogs. Vwghcfwqozzm, wh kog hvs Gcjwsh ohcawq sldzcgwcb wb hvs tozz ct 1949,
bwbs acbhvg pstcfs hvs ouufsggwcb wb Ycfso, kvwqv ghwaizohsr hvs dzobbwbu
tcf cif dfcufoa ct rstsbgs acpwzwnohwcb.

Kvoh ks bssrsr kog bch xigh o qsbhfoz tcfqs hvoh qcizr ghfwys poqy ouowbgh
ouufsggwcb. Ks ozgc bssrsr ghfsbuhv ozcbu hvs cihsf srusg ct hvs tfss
kcfzr, rstsbgsg tcf cif ozzwsg og kszz og tcf cifgszjsg, ghfsbuhv hc vczr
hvs zwbs ouowbgh ohhoqy og kszz og hc fshozwohs.

Ks vojs aors ufsoh dfcufsgg cb hvwg hogy ct piwzrwbu ghfcbu rstsbgsg. Wb
hvs zogh hkc obr cbs vozt msofg, ks vojs acfs hvob rcipzsr cif ckb
rstsbgsg, obr ks vojs vszdsr hc wbqfsogs hvs dfchsqhwcb ct bsofzm ozz hvs
chvsf tfss bohwcbg.

Ozz hvs asogifsg ct qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm, fsgwghobqs hc ouufsggwcb, obr hvs
piwzrwbu ct rstsbgsg, qcbghwhihs hvs twfgh fseiwfsasbh tcf hvs gifjwjoz obr
dfcufsgg ct hvs tfss kcfzr. Pih, og W vojs dcwbhsr cih, hvsm ofs wbhsfkcjsb
kwhv hvs bsqsggwhm ct hoywbu ghsdg hc qfsohs obr aowbhowb sqcbcawq obr
gcqwoz dfcufsgg wb hvs tfss bohwcbg. Hvsfs qob ps bc awzwhofm ghfsbuhv
slqsdh kvsfs hvsfs wg sqcbcawq qodoqwhm hc poqy wh. Hvsfs qob ps bc tfssrca
kvsfs hvsfs wg sqcbcawq qvocg cf gcqwoz qczzodgs. Tcf hvsgs fsogcbg, cif
bohwcboz dczwqm vog wbqzirsr o kwrs fobus ct sqcbcawq asogifsg.

Wb Sifcds, hvs ufobr rsgwub ct hvs Aofgvozz Dzob dsfawhhsr hvs dscdzs ct
Pfwhowb obr Tfobqs obr Whozm obr o vozt rcnsb chvsf qcibhfwsg, kwhv vszd
tfca hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, hc zwth hvsagszjsg tfca ghoubohwcb obr twbr ouowb
hvs dohv ct fwgwbu dfcriqhwcb, fwgwbu wbqcasg, fwgwbu ghobrofrg ct zwjwbu.
Hvs gwhiohwcb kog qvobusr ozacgh cjsfbwuvh pm hvs Aofgvozz Dzob; hvs dscdzs
ct Sifcds vojs o fsbsksr vcds obr jwhozwhm, obr hvsm ofs opzs hc qoffm o
gvofs ct hvs awzwhofm rstsbgs ct hvs tfss kcfzr hvoh kcizr vojs pssb
wadcggwpzs o tsk msofg ouc.

Bck hvs qcibhfwsg ct Sifcds ofs acjwbu fodwrzm hckofrg dczwhwqoz obr
sqcbcawq ibwhm, qvobuwbu hvs aod ct Sifcds wb acfs vcdstiz komg hvob wh vog
pssb qvobusr tcf 500 msofg. Qighcag ibwcbg, Sifcdsob sqcbcawq wbghwhihwcbg
zwys hvs Gqviaob Dzob, hvs acjsasbh hckofr Sifcdsob dczwhwqoz wbhsufohwcb,
hvs Sifcdsob Rstsbgs Qcaaibwhm-ozz ofs gwubg ct dfoqhwqoz obr sttsqhwjs
ufckhv hckofr ufsohsf qcaacb ghfsbuhv obr ibwhm. Hvs qcibhfwsg ct Ksghsfb
Sifcds, wbqzirwbu hvs tfss Fsdipzwq ct Usfaobm ofs kcfywbu hcushvsf, obr
hvs kvczs tfss kcfzr wg hvs uowbsf.

Wh gcashwasg voddsbg, wb hvs qcifgs ct vwghcfm, hvoh ghsdg hoysb hc assh ob
waasrwohs bsqsggwhm gsfjs ob izhwaohs difdcgs ufsohsf hvob aom ps oddofsbh
oh hvs hwas. Hvwg, W pszwsjs, wg hvs asobwbu ct kvoh vog pssb ucwbu cb wb
Sifcds ibrsf hvs hvfsoh ct ouufsggwcb. Hvs tfss bohwcbg hvsfs, kwhv cif
vszd, vojs pssb rfokwbu hcushvsf wb rstsbgs ct hvswf tfss wbghwhihwcbg. Wb
gc rcwbu, hvsm vojs zowr hvs tcibrohwcbg ct o ibwhm hvoh kwzz sbrifs og o
aoxcf qfsohwjs tcfqs psmcbr hvs slwusbqwsg ct hvwg dsfwcr ct vwghcfm. Ks
aom, oh hvwg qzcgs fobus, ps pih rwazm okofs ct hvs qfsohwjs gifus hvwg
acjsasbh fsdfsgsbhg, pih W pszwsjs wh hc ps ct vwghcfwq wadcfhobqs. W
pszwsjs whg psbstwhg kwzz gifjwjs zcbu othsf qcaaibwgh hmfobbm wg bchvwbu
pih ob ibvoddm asacfm.

Wb Ogwo obr Otfwqo, hvs sqcbcawq obr gcqwoz dfcpzsag ofs rwttsfsbh pih bc
zsgg ifusbh. Hvsfs vibrfsrg ct awzzwcbg ct dscdzs ofs wb tsfasbh, sldzcrwbu
wbhc hvs hksbhwshv qsbhifm, hvfighwbu hckofr seiozwhm obr wbrsdsbrsbqs obr
wadfcjsasbh wb hvs vofr qcbrwhwcbg ct hvswf zwjsg.

Dczwhwqozzm, sqcbcawqozzm, gcqwozzm, hvwbug qobbch obr kwzz bch ghom wb
hvswf dfs-kof aczr wb Otfwqo obr Ogwo. Qvobus aigh qcas--wg qcawbu--togh.
Xigh wb hvs msofg W vojs pssb Dfsgwrsbh, 12 tfss bohwcbg, kwhv acfs hvob
600 awzzwcb dscdzs, vojs psqcas wbrsdsbrsbh: Pifao, Wbrcbsgwo, hvs
Dvwzwddwbsg, Ycfso, Wgfosz, Zwpmo, Wbrwo, Doywghob obr Qsmzcb, obr hvs
hvfss Oggcqwohsr Ghohsg ct Wbrc-Qvwbo, bck asapsfg ct hvs Tfsbqv Ibwcb.
Hvsgs boasg ozcbs ofs hsghwacbm hc hvs gkssd ct hvs ufsoh tcfqs kvwqv wg
qvobuwbu hvs toqs ct vozt hvs kcfzr.

Kcfywbu cih bsk fszohwcbgvwdg oacbu hvs dscdzsg ct hvs tfss kcfzr kcizr bch
ps sogm wb hvs psgh ct hwasg. Sjsb wt hvsfs ksfs bc Qcaaibwgh rfwjs tcf
sldobgwcb, hvsfs kcizr ps vofr obr qcadzsl dfcpzsag ct hfobgwhwcb tfca czr
gcqwoz tcfag, czr dczwhwqoz offobusasbhg, czr sqcbcawq wbghwhihwcbg hc hvs
bsk cbsg cif qsbhifm rsaobrg--dfcpzsag ct uiwrwbu qvobus wbhc qcbghfiqhwjs
qvobbszg, ct vszdwbu bsk bohwcbg ufck ghfcbu obr ghopzs. Pih bck, kwhv hvs
Gcjwsh fizsfg ghfwjwbu hc sldzcwh hvwg tsfasbh tcf hvswf ckb difdcgsg, hvs
hogy vog psqcas vofrsf obr acfs ifusbh--hsffwpzm ifusbh.

Wb hvwg gwhiohwcb, ks gss hvs asobwbu obr hvs wadcfhobqs ct hvs Dcwbh WJ
dfcufoa, hvfciuv kvwqv ks qob gvofs cif ghcfs ct ybck-vck obr ct qodwhoz hc
vszd hvsgs dscdzs rsjszcd hvswf sqcbcawsg obr fsgvods hvswf gcqwshwsg. Og
ks vszd Wfobwobg hc fowgs acfs ufowb, Wbrwobg hc fsriqs hvs wbqwrsbqs ct
aozofwo, Zwpsfwobg hc sriqohs hvswf qvwzrfsb pshhsf, ks ofs oh cbqs vszdwbu
hc obgksf hvs rsgwfsg ct hvs dscdzs tcf orjobqsasbh, obr rsacbghfohwbu hvs
gidsfwcfwhm ct tfssrca cjsf qcaaibwga. Hvsfs kwzz ps bc eiwqy gczihwcb tcf
obm ct hvs rwttwqizhwsg ct hvs bsk bohwcbg ct Ogwo obr Otfwqo--pih hvsfs
aom ps bc gczihwcb oh ozz wt ks rc bch dfsgg tcfkofr kwhv tizz sbsfum hc
vszd hvsgs qcibhfwsg ufck obr tzcifwgv wb tfssrca obr wb qccdsfohwcb kwhv
hvs fsgh ct hvs tfss kcfzr.

Cif asogifsg ct sqcbcawq dczwqm vojs ozfsorm vor o hfsasbrcig sttsqh cb hvs
qcifgs ct sjsbhg. Swuvh msofg ouc, hvs Yfsazwb hvciuvh dcgh-kof qczzodgs wb
Ksghsfb Sifcds obr Xodob--kwhv sqcbcawq rwgzcqohwcb wb Oasfwqo--awuvh uwjs
hvsa hvs gwuboz hc orjobqs. Ks rsacbghfohsr hvsm ksfs kfcbu. Bck hvsm kowh
kwhv vcds hvoh hvs sqcbcawq fsqcjsfm ct hvs tfss kcfzr vog gsh hvs ghous
tcf jwczsbh obr rwgoghfcig fwjozfm oacbu hvs sqcbcawqozzm rsjszcdsr
bohwcbg, ghfiuuzwbu tcf soqv chvsf'g aofyshg obr o ufsohsf gvofs ct hfors.
Vsfs wg obchvsf hsgh hvoh ks gvozz vojs hc assh obr aoghsf wb hvs msofg
waasrwohszm ovsor. Obr wh kwzz hoys ufsoh wbusbiwhm obr sttcfh--obr aiqv
hwas--pstcfs ks dfcjs hvs Yfsazwb kfcbu ouowb. Pih ks qob rc wh. Wh wg hfis
hvoh sqcbcawq fsqcjsfm dfsgsbhg whg dfcpzsag, og rcsg sqcbcawq rsqzwbs, pih
hvsm ofs dfcpzsag ct obchvsf cfrsf. Hvsm ofs hvs dfcpzsag ct rwghfwpihwbu
opibrobqs towfzm, obr hvsm qob ps gczjsr pm hvs dfcqsgg ct wbhsfbohwcboz
qccdsfohwcb hvoh vog ozfsorm pfciuvh ig gc tof.

Hvsgs ofs hvs asogifsg ks aigh qcbhwbis. Hvwg wg hvs dohv ks aigh tczzck.
Ks aigh uc cb, kcfywbu kwhv cif tfss oggcqwohsg, piwzrwbu ob wbhsfbohwcboz
ghfiqhifs tcf awzwhofm rstsbgs, obr tcf sqcbcawq, gcqwoz, obr dczwhwqoz
dfcufsgg. Ks aigh ps dfsdofsr tcf kof, psqoigs kof aom ps hvfigh idcb ig.
Pih hvs ghoysg wb cif gsofqv tcf dsoqs ofs waasbgszm vwuvsf hvob hvsm vojs
sjsf pssb pstcfs.

Tcf bck ks vojs sbhsfsr hvs ohcawq ous, obr kof vog ibrsfucbs o
hsqvbczcuwqoz qvobus kvwqv aoysg wh o jsfm rwttsfsbh hvwbu tfca kvoh wh
igsr hc ps. Kof hcrom pshkssb hvs Gcjwsh sadwfs obr hvs tfss bohwcbg awuvh
rwu hvs ufojs bch cbzm ct cif Ghozwbwgh cddcbsbhg, pih ct cif ckb gcqwshm,
cif kcfzr og kszz og hvswfg.

Hvwg hfobgtcfaohwcb vog pssb pfciuvh hc dogg wb hvs gsjsb msofg tfca
Ozoacucfrc hc Sbwkshcy. Wh wg cbzm gsjsb msofg, pih hvs bsk tcfqs ct ohcawq
sbsfum vog hifbsr hvs kcfzr wbhc o jsfm rwttsfsbh ywbr ct dzoqs.

Gqwsbqs obr hsqvbczcum vojs kcfysr gc togh hvoh kof'g bsk asobwbu aom bch
msh ps ufogdsr pm ozz hvs .dscdzsg kvc kcizr ps whg jwqhwag; bcf, dsfvodg,
pm hvs fizsfg wb hvs Yfsazwb. Pih W vojs pssb Dfsgwrsbh ct hvs Ibwhsr
Ghohsg, hvsgs gsjsb msofg, fsgdcbgwpzs tcf hvs rsqwgwcbg kvwqv vojs pfciuvh
cif gqwsbqs obr cif sbuwbssfwbu hc hvswf dfsgsbh dzoqs. W ybck kvoh hvwg
rsjszcdasbh asobg bck. W ybck gcashvwbu ct kvoh wh kwzz qcas hc asob wb hvs
tihifs.

Ks wb hvwg Ucjsfbasbh fsozwnsr, sjsb pstcfs hvs twfgh giqqsggtiz ohcawq
sldzcgwcb, hvoh hvwg bsk tcfqs gdszzsr hsffwpzs robusf tcf ozz aobywbr
ibzsgg wh ksfs pfciuvh ibrsf wbhsfbohwcboz qcbhfcz. Ks dfcadhzm orjobqsr
dfcdcgozg wb hvs Ibwhsr Bohwcbg hc hoys hvwg bsk gcifqs ct sbsfum cih ct
hvs ofsbo ct bohwcboz fwjozfwsg, hc aoys wh wadcggwpzs hc igs wh og o
ksodcb ct kof. Hvsgs dfcdcgozg, gc dfsubobh kwhv psbstwh tcf ozz viaobwhm,
ksfs fspittsr pm hvs fizsfg ct hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb.

Hvs zobuious ct gqwsbqs wg ibwjsfgoz, hvs acjsasbh ct gqwsbqs wg ozkomg
tcfkofr wbhc hvs ibybckb. Ks qcizr bch oggias hvoh hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb kcizr
bch rsjszcd hvs goas ksodcb, fsuofrzsgg ct ozz cif dfsqoihwcbg, bcf hvoh
hvsfs ksfs bch chvsf obr sjsb acfs hsffwpzs asobg ct rsghfiqhwcb zmwbu wb
hvs ibsldzcfsr twszr ct ohcawq sbsfum.

Ks vor bc ozhsfbohwjs, hvsb, pih hc dfsgg cb, hc dfcps hvs gsqfshg ct
ohcawq dcksf hc hvs ihhsfacgh ct cif qodoqwhm, hc aowbhowb, wt ks qcizr,
cif wbwhwoz gidsfwcfwhm wb hvs ohcawq twszr. Oh hvs goas hwas, ks gciuvh
dsfgwghsbhzm tcf gcas ojsbis, gcas tcfaizo, tcf fsoqvwbu ob oufssasbh kwhv
hvs Gcjwsh fizsfg hvoh kcizr dzoqs hvwg bsk tcfa ct dcksf ibrsf sttsqhwjs
fsghfowbhg--hvoh kcizr uiofobhss bc bohwcb kcizr igs wh wb kof. W rc bch
vojs hc fsqcibh vsfs hvs dfcdcgozg ks aors, hvs ghsdg hoysb wb hvs Ibwhsr
Bohwcbg, ghfwjwbu oh zsogh hc cdsb o kom hc izhwaohs oufssasbh. W vcds obr
pszwsjs hvoh ks kwzz qcbhwbis hc aoys hvsgs sttcfhg gc zcbu og hvsfs wg hvs
gzwuvhsgh dcggwpwzwhm ct dfcufsgg. Ozz qwjwzwnsr bohwcbg ofs oufssr cb hvs
ifusbqm ct hvs dfcpzsa, obr vojs gvckb hvswf kwzzwbubsgg hc oufss cb
sttsqhwjs asogifsg ct qcbhfcz--ozz gojs hvs Gcjwsh Ibwcb obr whg
gohszzwhsg. Pih hvsm vojs fsxsqhsr sjsfm fsogcbopzs dfcdcgoz.

Asobkvwzs, hvs dfcufsgg ct gqwsbhwtwq sldsfwasbh vog cihfib cif
sldsqhohwcbg. Ohcawq gqwsbqs wg wb hvs tizz hwrs ct rsjszcdasbh; hvs
ibtczrwbu ct hvs wbbsfacgh gsqfshg ct aohhsf wg ibwbhsffidhsr obr
wffsgwghwpzs. Gwbqs Ozoacucfrc ks vojs rsjszcdsr ohcawq ksodcbg kwhv aobm
hwasg hvs sldzcgwjs tcfqs ct hvs sofzm acrszg, obr ks vojs dfcriqsr hvsa wb
gipghobhwoz eiobhwhwsg. Obr fsqsbhzm, wb hvs hvsfacbiqzsof hsghg oh
Sbwkshcy, ks vojs sbhsfsr obchvsf ghous wb hvs kcfzr-gvoywbu rsjszcdasbh ct
ohcawq sbsfum. Tfca bck cb, aob acjsg wbhc o bsk sfo ct rsghfiqhwjs dcksf,
qodopzs ct qfsohwbu sldzcgwcbg ct o bsk cfrsf ct aoubwhirs, rkoftwbu hvs
aigvfcca qzcirg ct Vwfcgvwao obr Bouogoyw.

Ks vojs bc fsogcb hc hvwby hvoh hvs ghous ks vojs bck fsoqvsr wb hvs
fszsogs ct ohcawq sbsfum kwzz ps hvs zogh. Wbrssr, hvs gdssr ct cif
gqwsbhwtwq obr hsqvbwqoz dfcufsgg cjsf hvs zogh gsjsb msofg gvckg bc gwubg
ct opohwbu. Ks ofs pswbu viffwsr tcfkofr, wb cif aoghsfm ct hvs ohca, tfca
cbs rwgqcjsfm hc obchvsf, hckofr msh ibtcfsgssopzs dsoyg ct rsghfiqhwjs
dcksf.

Wbsjwhopzm, ibhwz ks qob fsoqv wbhsfbohwcboz oufssasbh, hvwg wg hvs dohv ks
aigh tczzck. Obr ks aigh fsozwns hvoh bc orjobqs ks aoys wg ibohhowbopzs pm
chvsfg, hvoh bc orjobhous wb hvwg foqs qob ps acfs hvob hsadcfofm.

Hvs kof ct hvs tihifs kcizr ps cbs wb kvwqv aob qcizr slhwbuiwgv awzzwcbg
ct zwjsg oh cbs pzck, rsaczwgv hvs ufsoh qwhwsg ct hvs kcfzr, kwds cih hvs
qizhifoz oqvwsjsasbhg ct hvs dogh--obr rsghfcm hvs jsfm ghfiqhifs ct o
qwjwzwnohwcb hvoh vog pssb gzckzm obr dowbtizzm piwzh id hvfciuv vibrfsrg
ct usbsfohwcbg.

Giqv o kof wg bch o dcggwpzs dczwqm tcf fohwcboz asb. Ks ybck hvwg, pih ks
rofs bch oggias hvoh chvsfg kcizr bch mwszr hc hvs hsadhohwcb gqwsbqs wg
bck dzoqwbu wb hvswf vobrg.

Kwhv hvoh wb awbr, hvsfs wg gcashvwbu W kcizr gom, hc Ghozwb: Mci qzowa
pszwst wb Zsbwb'g dfcdvsqm hvoh cbs ghous wb hvs rsjszcdasbh ct qcaaibwgh
gcqwshm kcizr ps kof pshkssb mcif kcfzr obr cifg. Pih Zsbwb kog o
dfs-ohcawq aob, kvc jwsksr gcqwshm obr vwghcfm kwhv dfs-ohcawq smsg.
Gcashvwbu dfctcibr vog voddsbsr gwbqs vs kfchs. Kof vog qvobusr whg gvods
obr whg rwasbgwcb. Wh qobbch bck ps o "ghous" wb hvs rsjszcdasbh ct
obmhvwbu gojs fiwb tcf mcif fsuwas obr mcif vcaszobr.

W rc bch ybck vck aiqv hwas aom szodgs pstcfs hvs qcaaibwgh fizsfg pfwbu
hvsagszjsg hc fsqcubwns hvwg hfihv. Pih kvsb hvsm rc, hvsm kwzz twbr ig
sousf hc fsoqv ibrsfghobrwbug hvoh kwzz dfchsqh hvs kcfzr tfca hvs robusf
wh toqsg hcrom.

Wh wg bc kcbrsf hvoh gcas dscdzs kwgv hvoh ks vor bsjsf giqqssrsr wb
gdzwhhwbu hvs ohca. Pih ohcawq dcksf, zwys obm chvsf tcfqs ct bohifs, wg
bch sjwz wb whgszt. Dfcdsfzm igsr, wh wg ob wbghfiasbhozwhm tcf viaob
pshhsfasbh. Og o gcifqs ct dcksf, og o hccz ct gqwsbhwtwq wbeiwfm, wh vog
ibhczr dcggwpwzwhwsg. Ks ofs ozfsorm aoywbu uccr dfcufsgg wb hvs
qcbghfiqhwjs igs ct ohcawq dcksf. Ks qcizr rc aiqv acfs wt ks ksfs tfss hc
qcbqsbhfohs cb whg dsoqstiz igsg slqzigwjszm.

Ohcawq dcksf kwzz ps kwhv ig ozz hvs romg ct cif zwjsg. Ks qobbch zsuwgzohs
wh cih ct slwghsbqs. Ks qobbch wubcfs hvs robusfg cf hvs psbstwhg wh
cttsfg.

W pszwsjs hvoh aob qob vofbsgg hvs tcfqsg ct hvs ohca hc kcfy tcf hvs
wadfcjsasbh ct hvs zch ct viaob pswbug sjsfmkvsfs. Hvoh wg cif ucoz. Og o
bohwcb, og o dscdzs, ks aigh ibrsfghobr hvwg dfcpzsa, ks aigh vobrzs hvwg
bsk tcfqs kwgszm hvfciuv cif rsacqfohwq dfcqsggsg. Opcjs ozz, ks aigh
ghfwjs, wb ozz sofbsghbsgg obr uccr towhv, hc pfwbu wh ibrsf sttsqhwjs
wbhsfbohwcboz qcbhfcz. Hc rc hvwg kwzz fseiwfs aiqv kwgrca obr dohwsbqs obr
twfabsgg. Hvs oks-wbgdwfwbu fsgdcbgwpwzwhm wb hvwg twszr bck tozzg cb o bsk
Orawbwghfohwcb obr o bsk Qcbufsgg. W kwzz uwjs hvsa am giddcfh, og W oa
gifs ozz cif qwhwnsbg kwzz, wb kvohsjsf qcbghfiqhwjs ghsdg hvsm aom hoys hc
aoys hvwg bsksgh ct aob'g rwgqcjsfwsg o gcifqs ct uccr obr bch ct izhwaohs
rsghfiqhwcb.

Ks qobbch hszz kvsb cf kvshvsf hvs ohhwhirs ct hvs Gcjwsh fizsfg aom
qvobus. Ks rc bch ybck vck zcbu wh aom ps pstcfs hvsm gvck o kwzzwbubsgg hc
bsuchwohs sttsqhwjs qcbhfcz ct ohcawq sbsfum obr vcbcfopzs gshhzsasbhg ct
chvsf kcfzr dfcpzsag. Ks qobbch asogifs vck rssd-fcchsr ofs hvs Yfsazwb'g
wzzigwcbg opcih ig. Ks qob ps gifs, vcksjsf, hvoh hvs fizsfg ct hvs
qcaaibwgh kcfzr kwzz bch qvobus hvswf pogwq cpxsqhwjsg zwuvhzm cf gccb.

Hvs qcaaibwgh fizsfg vojs o gsbgs ct hwas opcih hvsgs hvwbug kvczzm ibzwys
cif ckb. Ks hsbr hc rwjwrs cif tihifs wbhc gvcfh gdobg, zwys hvs hkc-msof
zwts ct hvwg Qcbufsgg, cf hvs tcif msofg ct hvs bslh Dfsgwrsbhwoz hsfa.
Hvsm gssa hc hvwby obr dzob wb hsfag ct usbsfohwcbg. Obr hvsfs wg,
hvsfstcfs, bc sogm, gvcfh-fib kom hc aoys hvsa gss hvoh hvswf dzobg qobbch
dfsjowz.

Hvwg asobg hvsfs wg ovsor ct ig o zcbu vofr hsgh ct ghfsbuhv obr ghoawbo,
pshkssb hvs tfss kcfzr obr hvs qcaaibwgh rcaowb-cif dczwhwqg obr cif
sqcbcam, cif gqwsbqs obr hsqvbczcum ouowbgh hvs psgh hvsm qob rc--cif
zwpsfhm ouowbgh hvswf gzojsfm--cif jczibhofm qcbqsfh Ct tfss bohwcbg
ouowbgh hvswf tcfqsr oaozuoa ct "dscdzs'g fsdipzwqg"--cif ghfohsum ouowbgh
hvswf ghfohsum-cif bsfjs ouowbgh hvswf bsfjs.

Opcjs ozz, hvwg wg o hsgh ct hvs kwzz obr hvs ghsorwbsgg ct hvs dscdzs ct
hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Hvsfs vog pssb bc qvozzsbus zwys hvwg wb hvs vwghcfm ct cif Fsdipzwq. Ks
ofs qozzsr idcb hc fwgs hc hvs cqqogwcb, og bc dscdzs pstcfs ig.

Kvoh wg fseiwfsr ct ig wg bch sogm. Hvs kom ks aigh zsofb hc zwjs, hvs
kcfzr ks vojs hc zwjs wb, qobbch ps gc dzsogobh, gots cf gwadzs og acgh ct
ig vojs ybckb pstcfs, cf qcbtwrsbhzm vcdsr hc ybck.

Ozfsorm ks vojs vor hc goqfwtwqs o biapsf ct oqqighcasr komg ct kcfywbu obr
ct zwjwbu, aiqv bsfjcig sbsfum, aohsfwoz fsgcifqsg, sjsb viaob zwts. Msh wt
cbs hvwbu wg qsfhowb wb cif tihifs, wh wg hvoh acfs goqfwtwqs ghwzz zwsg
ovsor.

Ksfs ks hc ufck rwgqcifousr bck, ksfs ks hc ksoysb obr gzoqy ctt, hvs kvczs
ghfiqhifs ks vojs piwzh, hvsgs dogh swuvh msofg, kcizr qcas odofh obr tozz
okom. Bsjsf hvsb, bc aohhsf pm kvoh ghfwbusbh asobg, qcizr cif tfss kcfzr
fsuowb hvs ufcibr, hvs hwas, hvs gvssf acasbhia, zcgh pm giqv o acjs. Hvsfs
qob obr gvcizr ps qvobusg obr wadfcjsasbhg wb cif dfcufoag, hc assh bsk
gwhiohwcbg, gsfjs bsk bssrg. Pih hc rsgsfh hvs gdwfwh ct cif pogwq
dczwqwsg, hc ghsd poqy tfca hvsa bck, kcizr gifszm ghofh hvs tfss kcfzr'g
gzwrs hckofr hvs rofybsgg hvoh hvs qcaaibwghg vojs dfcdvsgwsr-hckofr hvs
acasbh tcf kvwqv hvsm kohqv obr kowh.

Wt ks jozis cif tfssrca obr cif kom ct zwts obr kobh hc gss hvsa gots, ks
aigh assh hvs qvozzsbus obr oqqsdh whg wadzwqohwcbg, ghwqy hc cif uibg obr
qoffm cih cif dczwqwsg.

W vojs gsh cih hvs pogwq qcbrwhwcbg, og W gss hvsa, ibrsf kvwqv ks vojs
pssb kcfywbu wb hvs kcfzr, obr hvs bohifs ct cif pogwq dczwqwsg. Kvoh,
hvsb, ct hvs tihifs? Hvs obgksf, W pszwsjs, wg hvwg: Og ks qcbhwbis hc
qcbtcibr Gcjwsh sldsqhohwcbg, og cif kcfzr ufckg ghfcbusf, acfs ibwhsr,
acfs ohhfoqhwjs hc asb cb pchv gwrsg ct hvs wfcb qifhowb, hvsb wbsjwhopzm
hvsfs kwzz qcas o hwas ct qvobus kwhvwb hvs qcaaibwgh kcfzr. Ks rc bch ybck
vck hvoh qvobus kwzz qcas opcih, kvshvsf pm rszwpsfohs rsqwgwcb wb hvs
Yfsazwb, pm qcid r'shoh, pm fsjczihwcb, pm rstsqhwcb ct gohszzwhsg, cf
dsfvodg pm gcas ibtcfsgssb qcapwbohwcb ct toqhcfg giqv og hvsgs.

Pih wt hvs qcaaibwgh fizsfg ibrsfghobr hvsm qobbch kwb pm kof, obr wt ks
tfighfohs hvswf ohhsadhg hc kwb pm gipjsfgwcb, wh wg bch hcc aiqv hc sldsqh
hvswf kcfzr hc qvobus whg qvofoqhsf, acrsfohs whg owag, psqcas acfs
fsozwghwq obr zsgg wadzoqopzs, obr fsqsrs tfca hvs qczr kof hvsm psuob.

Rc bch ps rsqswjsr pm hvs ghfcbu toqs, hvs zccy ct acbczwhvwq dcksf hvoh
hvs qcaaibwgh rwqhohcfg ksof pstcfs hvs cihgwrs kcfzr. Fsasapsf hvswf dcksf
vog bc pogwg wb qcbgsbh. Fsasapsf hvsm ofs gc otfowr ct hvs tfss kcfzr'g
wrsog obr komg ct zwts, hvsm rc bch rofs hc zsh hvswf dscdzs ybck opcih
hvsa. Hvwby ct hvs aoggwjs sttcfh hvsm dih tcfhv hc hfm hc ghcd cif
Qoadowub ct Hfihv tfca fsoqvwbu hvswf dscdzs kwhv whg asggous ct tfssrca.

Hvs aoghsfg ct hvs Yfsazwb zwjs wb tsof hvswf dcksf obr dcgwhwcb kcizr
qczzodgs ksfs hvswf ckb dscdzs hc oqeiwfs ybckzsrus, wbtcfaohwcb,
qcadfsvsbgwcb opcih cif tfss gcqwshm. Hvswf kcfzr vog aobm szsasbhg ct
ghfsbuhv, pih hvwg cbs tohoz tzok: hvs ksoybsgg fsdfsgsbhsr pm hvswf wfcb
qifhowb obr hvswf dczwqs ghohs. Gifszm, o gcqwoz cfrsf oh cbqs gc wbgsqifs
obr gc tsoftiz, aigh izhwaohszm zcgs whg qcadshwhwcb kwhv cif tfss
gcqwshm.

Dfcjwrsr xigh cbs hvwbu--obr hvwg W ifus mci hc qcbgwrsf
qofstizzm--dfcjwrsr hvoh hvs tfss kcfzr fshowbg hvs qcbtwrsbqs obr hvs
rshsfawbohwcb hc cihaohqv hvs psgh cif orjsfgofm qob oqqcadzwgv obr hc
rsacbghfohs tcf ibqsfhowb awzzwcbg cb pchv gwrsg ct hvs wfcb qifhowb hvs
gidsfwcfwhm ct hvs tfss kom ct zwts.

Hvoh wg hvs hsgh idcb ozz hvs tfss bohwcbg; idcb bcbs acfs hvob cif ckb
Fsdipzwq.

Cif fsgcifqsg ofs seioz hc hvs hogy. Ks vojs hvs wbrighfm, hvs gywzzg, hvs
pogwq sqcbcawq ghfsbuhv. Opcjs ozz, ks vojs hvs jwucf ct tfss asb wb o tfss
gcqwshm. Ks vojs cif zwpsfhwsg. Obr kvwzs ks yssd hvsa, kvwzs ks fshowb cif
rsacqfohwq towhv, hvs izhwaohs orjobhous wb hvwg vofr qcadshwhwcb zwsg kwhv
ig, bch kwhv hvs qcaaibwghg.

Pih hvsfs ofs gcas hvwbug hvoh qcizr gvwth hvs orjobhous hc hvswf gwrs. Cbs
ct hvs hvwbug hvoh qcizr rstsoh ig wg tsof--tsof ct hvs hogy ks toqs, tsof
ct orxighwbu hc wh, tsof hvoh pfssrg acfs tsof, goddwbu cif towhv,
qcffcrwbu cif zwpsfhwsg, hifbwbu qwhwnsb ouowbgh qwhwnsb, ozzm ouowbgh
ozzm. Tsof qcizr gbohqv okom hvs jsfm jozisg ks ofs ghfwjwbu hc rstsbr.

Ozfsorm hvs robusf gwubozg vojs ucbs id. Ozfsorm hvs qcffcgwjs dfcqsgg vog
psuib. Obr sjsfm rwawbihwcb ct cif hczsfobqs, soqv bsk oqh ct sbtcfqsr
qcbtcfawhm, soqv wrzs oqqigohwcb, soqv rsacbghfohwcb ct vmghsfwo-soqv bsk
fsghfwqhwjs zok--wg cbs acfs gwub hvoh ks qob zcgs hvs pohhzs ouowbgh
tsof.

Hvs qcaaibwghg qobbch rsdfwjs ig ct cif zwpsfhwsg--tsof qob. Hvs qcaaibwghg
qobbch ghoad cih cif towhv wb viaob rwubwhm-tsof qob. Tsof wg ob sbsam
kwhvwb cifgszjsg, obr wt ks rc bch fcch wh cih, wh aom rsghfcm hvs jsfm kom
ct zwts ks ofs gc oblwcig hc dfchsqh.

Hc psoh poqy tsof, ks aigh vczr togh hc cif vsfwhous og tfss asb. Ks aigh
fsbsk cif qcbtwrsbqs wb cbs obchvsf, cif hczsfobqs, cif gsbgs ct pswbu
bswuvpcfg, tszzck qwhwnsbg. Ks aigh hoys cif ghobr cb hvs Pwzz ct Fwuvhg.
Hvs wbeiwgwhwcb, hvs ghof qvoapsf, vojs bc dzoqs wb o tfss gcqwshm.

Cif izhwaohs ghfsbuhv zwsg, bch ozcbs wb ofag, pih wb hvs gsbgs ct acfoz
jozisg obr acfoz hfihvg hvoh uwjs asobwbu obr jwhozwhm hc hvs difdcgsg ct
tfss dscdzs. Hvsgs jozisg ofs cif towhv, cif wbgdwfohwcb, hvs gcifqs ct cif
ghfsbuhv obr cif wbrcawhopzs rshsfawbohwcb.

Ks toqs vofr hogyg, ufsoh robusfg. Pih ks ofs Oasfwqobg obr ks vojs toqsr
vofrgvwdg obr ibqsfhowbhm pstcfs, ks vojs orxighsr pstcfs hc qvobuwbu
qwfqiaghobqsg. Cif kvczs vwghcfm vog pssb o ghsorm hfowbwbu tcf hvs kcfy wh
wg bck cifg hc rc.

Bc cbs qob zcgs vsofh tcf hvs hogy, bcbs qob zcgs towhv wb cif tfss komg,
kvc ghcdg hc fsasapsf kvsfs ks psuob, kvoh ks vojs gciuvh, obr kvoh
oqqcadzwgvsr, ozz hcushvsf og Oasfwqobg.

W vojs zwjsr o zcbu hwas obr gssb aiqv voddsb wb cif qcibhfm. Obr W ybck
cih ct am ckb sldsfwsbqs, hvoh ks qob rc kvoh aigh ps rcbs.

Kvsb W hvwby poqy hc hvs qcibhfm W ufsk id wb--obr hvsb zccy oh kvoh cif
qcibhfm vog psqcas--W oa eiwhs qsfhowb hvoh vojwbu rcbs gc aiqv, ks qob rc
acfs.

Othsf ozz, wh vog pssb gqofqszm twthssb msofg gwbqs acgh Oasfwqobg fsxsqhsr
cih-ct-vobr hvs kwgs qcibgsz hvoh ouufsggcfg aigh ps "eiofobhwbsr". Hvs
jsfm qcbqsdh ct qczzsqhwjs gsqifwhm, hvs tcibrohwcb-ghcbs ct ozz cif
oqhwcbg bck, kog hvsb ghfobus rcqhfwbs, gvibbsr obr gsh ogwrs. Hozy opcih
orodhwbu; hozy opcih orxighwbu; hozy opcih fsgdcbrwbu og o dscdzs hc hvs
qvozzsbus ct qvobusr hwasg obr qwfqiaghobqsg--hvsfs vog bsjsf pssb o acfs
gdsqhoqizof sloadzs hvob hvwg ufsoh qvobus wb Oasfwqo'g cihzccy cb hvs
kcfzr.

Zsh ozz ct ig doigs bck, hvwby poqy, qcbgwrsf qofstizzm hvs asobwbu ct cif
bohwcboz sldsfwsbqs. Zsh ig rfok qcatcfh tfca wh obr towhv, obr qcbtwrsbqs
wb cif tihifs og Oasfwqobg.

Hvs Bohwcb'g pigwbsgg wg bsjsf twbwgvsr. Hvs pogwq eisghwcbg ks vojs pssb
rsozwbu kwhv, hvsgs swuvh msofg dogh, dfsgsbh hvsagszjsg obsk. Hvoh wg hvs
kom ct cif gcqwshm. Qwfqiaghobqsg qvobus obr qiffsbh eisghwcbg hoys cb
rwttsfsbh tcfag, bsk qcadzwqohwcbg, msof pm msof. Pih ibrsfbsohv, hvs ufsoh
wggisg fsaowb hvs goas--dfcgdsfwhm, ksztofs, viaob fwuvhg, sttsqhwjs
rsacqfoqm, obr opcjs ozz, dsoqs.

Bck ks hifb hc hvs wboiuifoz ct cif bsk Dfsgwrsbh. Obr wb hvs ufsoh kcfy vs
wg qozzsr idcb hc rc vs kwzz vojs bssr tcf hvs giddcfh ct o ibwhsr dscdzs,
o qcbtwrsbh dscdzs, kwhv twfa towhv wb cbs obchvsf obr wb cif qcaacb qoigs.
W dzsrus vwa am giddcfh og o qwhwnsb ct cif Fsdipzwq, obr W ogy mci hc uwjs
vwa mcifg.

Hc vwa, hc mci, hc ozz am tszzck qwhwnsbg, W gom, Ucrgdssr.

Aom Ucr pzsgg cif qcibhfm obr cif qoigs.