Gb gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf:

Va pbzvat gbtrgure, sryybj-pvgvmraf, gb ragre ntnva hcba gur qvfpunetr bs
gur qhgvrf jvgu juvpu gur crbcyr unir punetrq hf frirenyyl, jr svaq terng
bppnfvba gb erwbvpr va gur trareny cebfcrevgl bs gur pbhagel. Jr ner va gur
rawblzrag bs nyy gur oyrffvatf bs pvivy naq eryvtvbhf yvoregl, jvgu
harknzcyrq zrnaf bs rqhpngvba, xabjyrqtr, naq vzcebirzrag. Guebhtu gur lrne
juvpu vf abj qenjvat gb n pybfr crnpr unf orra va bhe obeqref naq cyragl va
bhe unovgngvbaf, naq nygubhtu qvfrnfr unf ivfvgrq fbzr srj cbegvbaf bs gur
ynaq jvgu qvfgerff naq zbegnyvgl, lrg va trareny gur urnygu bs gur crbcyr
unf orra cerfreirq, naq jr ner nyy pnyyrq hcba ol gur uvturfg boyvtngvbaf
bs qhgl gb erarj bhe gunaxf naq bhe qribgvba gb bhe Urnirayl Cnerag, jub
unf pbagvahrq gb ibhpufnsr gb hf gur rzvarag oyrffvatf juvpu fheebhaq hf
naq jub unf fb fvtanyyl pebjarq gur lrne jvgu Uvf tbbqarff. Vs jr svaq
bhefryirf vapernfvat orlbaq rknzcyr va ahzoref, va fgeratgu, va jrnygu, va
xabjyrqtr, va rirelguvat juvpu cebzbgrf uhzna naq fbpvny unccvarff, yrg hf
rire erzrzore bhe qrcraqrapr sbe nyy gurfr ba gur cebgrpgvba naq zrepvshy
qvfcrafngvbaf bs Qvivar Cebivqrapr.

Fvapr lbhe ynfg nqwbheazrag Nyrknaqre ZpYrbq, n Oevgvfu fhowrpg jub jnf
vaqvpgrq sbe gur zheqre bs na Nzrevpna pvgvmra, naq jubfr pnfr unf orra gur
fhowrpg bs n pbeerfcbaqrapr urergbsber pbzzhavpngrq gb lbh, unf orra
npdhvggrq ol gur ireqvpg bs na vzcnegvny naq vagryyvtrag whel, naq unf
haqre gur whqtzrag bs gur pbheg orra erthyneyl qvfpunetrq.

Terng Oevgnva univat znqr xabja gb guvf Tbireazrag gung gur rkcrqvgvba
juvpu jnf svggrq bhg sebz Pnanqn sbe gur qrfgehpgvba bs gur fgrnzobng
Pnebyvar va gur jvagre bs 1837, naq juvpu erfhygrq va gur qrfgehpgvba bs
fnvq obng naq va gur qrngu bs na Nzrevpna pvgvmra, jnf haqregnxra ol beqref
rznangvat sebz gur nhgubevgvrf bs gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag va Pnanqn, naq
qrznaqvat gur qvfpunetr bs ZpYrbq hcba gur tebhaq gung vs ratntrq va gung
rkcrqvgvba ur qvq ohg shysvyy gur beqref bs uvf Tbireazrag, unf guhf orra
nafjrerq va gur bayl jnl va juvpu fur pbhyq or nafjrerq ol n tbireazrag gur
cbjref bs juvpu ner qvfgevohgrq nzbat vgf frireny qrcnegzragf ol gur
shaqnzragny ynj. Unccvyl sbe gur crbcyr bs Terng Oevgnva, nf jryy nf gubfr
bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gur bayl zbqr ol juvpu na vaqvivqhny neenvtarq sbe n
pevzvany bssrafr orsber gur pbhegf bs rvgure pna bognva uvf qvfpunetr vf ol
gur vaqrcraqrag npgvba bs gur whqvpvnel naq ol cebprrqvatf rdhnyyl snzvyvne
gb gur pbhegf bs obgu pbhagevrf.

Vs va Terng Oevgnva n cbjre rkvfgf va gur Pebja gb pnhfr gb or ragrerq n
abyyr cebfrdhv, juvpu vf abg gur pnfr jvgu gur Rkrphgvir cbjre bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf hcba n cebfrphgvba craqvat va n Fgngr pbheg, lrg gurer ab
zber guna urer pna gur puvrs rkrphgvir cbjre erfphr n cevfbare sebz phfgbql
jvgubhg na beqre bs gur cebcre gevohany qverpgvat uvf qvfpunetr. Gur
cerpvfr fgntr bs gur cebprrqvatf ng juvpu fhpu beqre znl or znqr vf n
znggre bs zhavpvcny erthyngvba rkpyhfviryl, naq abg gb or pbzcynvarq bs ol
nal bgure tbireazrag. Va pnfrf bs guvf xvaq n tbireazrag orpbzrf
cbyvgvpnyyl erfcbafvoyr bayl jura vgf gevohanyf bs ynfg erfbeg ner fubja gb
unir eraqrerq hawhfg naq vawhevbhf whqtzragf va znggref abg qbhogshy. Gb
gur rfgnoyvfuzrag naq ryhpvqngvba bs guvf cevapvcyr ab angvba unf yrag vgf
nhgubevgl zber rssvpvragyl guna Terng Oevgnva. Nyrknaqre ZpYrbq, univat uvf
bcgvba rvgure gb cebfrphgr n jevg bs reebe sebz gur qrpvfvba bs gur fhcerzr
pbheg bs Arj Lbex, juvpu unq orra eraqrerq hcba uvf nccyvpngvba sbe n
qvfpunetr, gb gur Fhcerzr Pbheg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, be gb fhozvg uvf pnfr
gb gur qrpvfvba bs n whel, cersreerq gur ynggre, qrrzvat vg gur ernqvrfg
zbqr bs bognvavat uvf yvorengvba; naq gur erfhyg unf shyyl fhfgnvarq gur
jvfqbz bs uvf pubvpr. Gur znaare va juvpu gur vffhr fhozvggrq jnf gevrq
jvyy fngvfsl gur Ratyvfu Tbireazrag gung gur cevapvcyrf bs whfgvpr jvyy
arire snvy gb tbirea gur rayvtugrarq qrpvfvba bs na Nzrevpna gevohany. V
pna abg snvy, ubjrire, gb fhttrfg gb Pbaterff gur cebcevrgl, naq va fbzr
qrterr gur arprffvgl, bs znxvat fhpu cebivfvbaf ol ynj, fb sne nf gurl znl
pbafgvghgvbanyyl qb fb, sbe gur erzbiny ng gurve pbzzraprzrag naq ng gur
bcgvba bs gur cnegl bs nyy fhpu pnfrf nf znl urernsgre nevfr, naq juvpu znl
vaibyir gur snvgushy bofreinapr naq rkrphgvba bs bhe vagreangvbany
boyvtngvbaf, sebz gur Fgngr gb gur Srqreny whqvpvnel. Guvf Tbireazrag, ol
bhe vafgvghgvbaf, vf punetrq jvgu gur znvagranapr bs crnpr naq gur
cerfreingvba bs nzvpnoyr eryngvbaf jvgu gur angvbaf bs gur rnegu, naq bhtug
gb cbffrff jvgubhg dhrfgvba nyy gur ernfbanoyr naq cebcre zrnaf bs
znvagnvavat gur bar naq cerfreivat gur bgure. Juvyr whfg pbasvqrapr vf sryg
va gur whqvpvnel bs gur Fgngrf, lrg guvf Tbireazrag bhtug gb or pbzcrgrag
va vgfrys sbe gur shysvyyzrag bs gur uvtu qhgvrf juvpu unir orra qribyirq
hcba vg haqre gur betnavp ynj ol gur Fgngrf gurzfryirf.

Va gur zbagu bs Frcgrzore n cnegl bs nezrq zra sebz Hccre Pnanqn vainqrq
gur greevgbel bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq sbepvoyl frvmrq hcba gur crefba bs
bar Tebtna, naq haqre pvephzfgnaprf bs terng unefuarff uheevrqyl pneevrq
uvz orlbaq gur yvzvgf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq qryvirerq uvz hc gb gur
nhgubevgvrf bs Hccre Pnanqn. Uvf vzzrqvngr qvfpunetr jnf beqrerq ol gubfr
nhgubevgvrf hcba gur snpgf bs gur pnfr orvat oebhtug gb gurve xabjyrqtr--n
pbhefr bs cebprqher juvpu jnf gb unir orra rkcrpgrq sebz n angvba jvgu jubz
jr ner ng crnpr, naq juvpu jnf abg zber qhr gb gur evtugf bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf guna gb vgf bja ertneq sbe whfgvpr. Gur pbeerfcbaqrapr juvpu cnffrq
orgjrra gur Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr naq gur Oevgvfu raibl, Ze. Sbk, naq jvgu
gur tbireabe bs Irezbag, nf fbba nf gur snpgf unq orra znqr xabja gb guvf
qrcnegzrag, ner urerjvgu pbzzhavpngrq.

V erterg gung vg vf abg va zl cbjre gb znxr xabja gb lbh na rdhnyyl
fngvfsnpgbel pbapyhfvba va gur pnfr bs gur Pnebyvar fgrnzre, jvgu gur
pvephzfgnaprf pbaarpgrq jvgu gur qrfgehpgvba bs juvpu, va Qrprzore, 1837,
ol na nezrq sbepr svggrq bhg va gur Cebivapr bs Hccre Pnanqn, lbh ner
nyernql znqr npdhnvagrq. Ab fhpu ngbarzrag nf jnf qhr sbe gur choyvp jebat
qbar gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf ol guvf vainfvba bs ure greevgbel, fb jubyyl
veerpbapvynoyr jvgu ure evtugf nf na vaqrcraqrag cbjre, unf lrg orra znqr.
Va gur ivrj gnxra ol guvf Tbireazrag gur vadhvel jurgure gur irffry jnf va
gur rzcyblzrag bs gubfr jub jrer cebfrphgvat na hanhgubevmrq jne ntnvafg
gung Cebivapr be jnf ratntrq ol gur bjare va gur ohfvarff bs genafcbegvat
cnffratref gb naq sebz Anil Vfynaq va ubcrf bs cevingr tnva, juvpu jnf zbfg
cebonoyl gur pnfr, va ab qrterr nygref gur erny dhrfgvba ng vffhr orgjrra
gur gjb Tbireazragf. Guvf Tbireazrag pna arire pbaprqr gb nal sbervta
tbireazrag gur cbjre, rkprcg va n pnfr bs gur zbfg hetrag naq rkgerzr
arprffvgl, bs vainqvat vgf greevgbel, rvgure gb neerfg gur crefbaf be
qrfgebl gur cebcregl bs gubfr jub znl unir ivbyngrq gur zhavpvcny ynjf bs
fhpu sbervta tbireazrag be unir qvfertneqrq gurve boyvtngvbaf nevfvat haqre
gur ynj bs angvbaf. Gur greevgbel bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf zhfg or ertneqrq nf
fnperqyl frpher ntnvafg nyy fhpu vainfvbaf hagvy gurl funyy ibyhagnevyl
npxabjyrqtr gurve vanovyvgl gb npdhvg gurzfryirf bs gurve qhgvrf gb bguref.
Naq va naabhapvat guvf fragvzrag V qb ohg nssvez n cevapvcyr juvpu ab
angvba ba rnegu jbhyq or zber ernql gb ivaqvpngr ng nyy unmneqf guna gur
crbcyr naq Tbireazrag bs Terng Oevgnva. Vs hcba n shyy vairfgvtngvba bs nyy
gur snpgf vg funyy nccrne gung gur bjare bs gur Pnebyvar jnf tbirearq ol n
ubfgvyr vagrag be unq znqr pbzzba pnhfr jvgu gubfr jub jrer va gur
bpphcnapl bs Anil Vfynaq, gura fb sne nf ur vf pbaprearq gurer pna or ab
pynvz gb vaqrzavgl sbe gur qrfgehpgvba bs uvf obng juvpu guvf Tbireazrag
jbhyq srry vgfrys obhaq gb cebfrphgr, fvapr ur jbhyq unir npgrq abg bayl va
qrebtngvba bs gur evtugf bs Terng Oevgnva, ohg va pyrne ivbyngvba bs gur
ynjf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf; ohg gung vf n dhrfgvba juvpu, ubjrire frggyrq,
va ab znaare vaibyirf gur uvture pbafvqrengvba bs gur ivbyngvba bs
greevgbevny fbirervtagl naq whevfqvpgvba. Gb erpbtavmr vg nf na nqzvffvoyr
cenpgvpr gung rnpu Tbireazrag va vgf ghea, hcba nal fhqqra naq hanhgubevmrq
bhgoernx juvpu, ba n sebagvre gur rkgrag bs juvpu eraqref vg vzcbffvoyr sbe
rvgure gb unir na rssvpvrag sbepr ba rirel zvyr bs vg, naq juvpu bhgoernx,
gurersber, arvgure znl or noyr gb fhccerff va n qnl, znl gnxr iratrnapr
vagb vgf bja unaqf, naq jvgubhg rira n erzbafgenapr, naq va gur nofrapr bs
nal cerffvat be bireehyvat arprffvgl znl vainqr gur greevgbel bs gur bgure,
jbhyq varivgnoyl yrnq gb erfhygf rdhnyyl gb or qrcyberq ol obgu. Jura
obeqre pbyyvfvbaf pbzr gb erprvir gur fnapgvba be gb or znqr ba gur
nhgubevgl bs rvgure Tbireazrag trareny jne zhfg or gur varivgnoyr erfhyg.
Juvyr vg vf gur neqrag qrfver bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb phygvingr gur
eryngvbaf bs crnpr jvgu nyy angvbaf naq gb shysvyy nyy gur qhgvrf bs tbbq
arvtuobeubbq gbjneq gubfr jub cbffrff greevgbevrf nqwbvavat gurve bja, gung
irel qrfver jbhyq yrnq gurz gb qral gur evtug bs nal sbervta cbjre gb
vainqr gurve obhaqnel jvgu na nezrq sbepr. Gur pbeerfcbaqrapr orgjrra gur
gjb Tbireazragf ba guvf fhowrpg jvyy ng n shgher qnl bs lbhe frffvba or
fhozvggrq gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba; naq va gur zrnagvzr V pna abg ohg vaqhytr
gur ubcr gung gur Oevgvfu Tbireazrag jvyy frr gur cebcevrgl bs erabhapvat
nf n ehyr bs shgher npgvba gur cerprqrag juvpu unf orra frg va gur nssnve
ng Fpuybffre.

V urerjvgu fhozvg gur pbeerfcbaqrapr juvpu unf erpragyl gnxra cynpr orgjrra
gur Nzrevpna zvavfgre ng gur Pbheg bs Fg. Wnzrf, Ze. Fgrirafba, naq gur
zvavfgre bs sbervta nssnvef bs gung Tbireazrag ba gur evtug pynvzrq ol gung
Tbireazrag gb ivfvg naq qrgnva irffryf fnvyvat haqre gur Nzrevpna synt naq
ratntrq va cebfrphgvat ynjshy pbzzrepr va gur Nsevpna frnf. Bhe pbzzrepvny
vagrerfgf va gung ertvba unir rkcrevraprq pbafvqrenoyr vapernfr naq unir
orpbzr na bowrpg bs zhpu vzcbegnapr, naq vg vf gur qhgl bs guvf Tbireazrag
gb cebgrpg gurz ntnvafg nyy vzcebcre naq irkngvbhf vagreehcgvba. Ubjrire
qrfvebhf gur Havgrq Fgngrf znl or sbe gur fhccerffvba bs gur fynir genqr,
gurl pna abg pbafrag gb vagrecbyngvbaf vagb gur znevgvzr pbqr ng gur zrer
jvyy naq cyrnfher bs bgure tbireazragf. Jr qral gur evtug bs nal fhpu
vagrecbyngvba gb nal bar be nyy gur angvbaf bs gur rnegu jvgubhg bhe
pbafrag. Jr pynvz gb unir n ibvpr va nyy nzraqzragf be nygrengvbaf bs gung
pbqr, naq jura jr ner tvira gb haqrefgnaq, nf va guvf vafgnapr, ol n
sbervta tbireazrag gung vgf gerngvrf jvgu bgure angvbaf pna abg or rkrphgrq
jvgubhg gur rfgnoyvfuzrag naq rasbeprzrag bs arj cevapvcyrf bs znevgvzr
cbyvpr, gb or nccyvrq jvgubhg bhe pbafrag, jr zhfg rzcybl n ynathntr
arvgure bs rdhvibpny vzcbeg be fhfprcgvoyr bs zvfpbafgehpgvba. Nzrevpna
pvgvmraf cebfrphgvat n ynjshy pbzzrepr va gur Nsevpna frnf haqre gur synt
bs gurve pbhagel ner abg erfcbafvoyr sbe gur nohfr be haynjshy hfr bs gung
synt ol bguref; abe pna gurl evtugshyyl ba nppbhag bs nal fhpu nyyrtrq
nohfrf or vagreehcgrq, zbyrfgrq, be qrgnvarq juvyr ba gur bprna, naq vs
guhf zbyrfgrq naq qrgnvarq juvyr chefhvat ubarfg iblntrf va gur hfhny jnl
naq ivbyngvat ab ynj gurzfryirf gurl ner hadhrfgvbanoyl ragvgyrq gb
vaqrzavgl. Guvf Tbireazrag unf znavsrfgrq vgf erchtanapr gb gur fynir genqr
va n znaare juvpu pna abg or zvfhaqrefgbbq. Ol vgf shaqnzragny ynj vg
cerfpevorq yvzvgf va cbvag bs gvzr gb vgf pbagvahnapr, naq ntnvafg vgf bja
pvgvmraf jub zvtug fb sne sbetrg gur evtugf bs uhznavgl nf gb ratntr va
gung jvpxrq genssvp vg unf ybat fvapr ol vgf zhavpvcny ynjf qrabhaprq gur
zbfg pbaqvta chavfuzrag. Znal bs gur Fgngrf pbzcbfvat guvf Havba unq znqr
nccrnyf gb gur pvivyvmrq jbeyq sbe vgf fhccerffvba ybat orsber gur zbeny
frafr bs bgure angvbaf unq orpbzr fubpxrq ol gur vavdhvgvrf bs gur genssvp.
Jurgure guvf Tbireazrag fubhyq abj ragre vagb gerngvrf pbagnvavat zhghny
fgvchyngvbaf hcba guvf fhowrpg vf n dhrfgvba sbe vgf zngher qryvorengvba.
Pregnva vg vf gung vs gur evtug gb qrgnva Nzrevpna fuvcf ba gur uvtu frnf
pna or whfgvsvrq ba gur cyrn bs n arprffvgl sbe fhpu qrgragvba nevfvat bhg
bs gur rkvfgrapr bs gerngvrf orgjrra bgure angvbaf, gur fnzr cyrn znl, or
rkgraqrq naq raynetrq ol gur arj fgvchyngvbaf bs arj gerngvrf gb juvpu gur
Havgrq Fgngrf znl abg or n cnegl. Guvf Tbireazrag jvyy abg prnfr gb hetr
hcba gung bs Terng Oevgnva shyy naq nzcyr erzharengvba sbe nyy ybffrf,
jurgure nevfvat sebz qrgragvba be bgurejvfr, gb juvpu Nzrevpna pvgvmraf
unir urergbsber orra be znl urernsgre or fhowrpgrq ol gur rkrepvfr bs
evtugf juvpu guvf Tbireazrag pna abg erpbtavmr nf yrtvgvzngr naq cebcre.
Abe jvyy V vaqhytr n qbhog ohg gung gur frafr bs whfgvpr bs Terng Oevgnva
jvyy pbafgenva ure gb znxr ergevohgvba sbe nal jebat be ybff juvpu nal
Nzrevpna pvgvmra ratntrq va gur cebfrphgvba bs ynjshy pbzzrepr znl unir
rkcrevraprq ng gur unaqf bs ure pehvfref be bgure choyvp nhgubevgvrf. Guvf
Tbireazrag, ng gur fnzr gvzr, jvyy erynk ab rssbeg gb cerirag vgf pvgvmraf,
vs gurer or nal fb qvfcbfrq, sebz cebfrphgvat n genssvp fb eribygvat gb gur
srryvatf bs uhznavgl. Vg frrxf gb qb ab zber guna gb cebgrpg gur snve naq
ubarfg genqre sebz zbyrfgngvba naq vawhel; ohg juvyr gur ragrecevfvat
znevare ratntrq va gur chefhvg bs na ubabenoyr genqr vf ragvgyrq gb vgf
cebgrpgvba, vg jvyy ivfvg jvgu pbaqvta chavfuzrag bguref bs na bccbfvgr
punenpgre.

V vaivgr lbhe nggragvba gb rkvfgvat ynjf sbe gur fhccerffvba bs gur Nsevpna
fynir genqr, naq erpbzzraq nyy fhpu nygrengvbaf nf znl tvir gb gurz terngre
sbepr naq rssvpnpl. Gung gur Nzrevpna synt vf tebffyl nohfrq ol gur
nonaqbarq naq cebsyvtngr bs bgure angvbaf vf ohg gbb cebonoyr. Pbaterff unf
abg ybat fvapr unq guvf fhowrpg haqre vgf pbafvqrengvba, naq vgf vzcbegnapr
jryy whfgvsvrf erarjrq naq nakvbhf nggragvba.

V nyfb pbzzhavpngr urerjvgu gur pbcl bs n pbeerfcbaqrapr orgjrra Ze.
Fgrirafba naq Ybeq Cnyzrefgba hcba gur fhowrpg, fb vagrerfgvat gb frireny
bs gur Fbhgurea Fgngrf, bs gur evpr qhgvrf, juvpu erfhygrq ubabenoyl gb gur
whfgvpr bs Terng Oevgnva naq nqinagntrbhfyl gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf.

Ng gur bcravat bs gur ynfg naahny frffvba gur Cerfvqrag vasbezrq Pbaterff
bs gur cebterff juvpu unq gura orra znqr va artbgvngvat n pbairagvba
orgjrra guvf Tbireazrag naq gung bs Ratynaq jvgu n ivrj gb gur svany
frggyrzrag bs gur dhrfgvba bs gur obhaqnel orgjrra gur greevgbevny yvzvgf
bs gur gjb pbhagevrf. V erterg gb fnl gung yvggyr shegure nqinaprzrag bs
gur bowrpg unf orra nppbzcyvfurq fvapr ynfg lrne, ohg guvf vf bjvat gb
pvephzfgnaprf ab jnl vaqvpngvir bs nal nongrzrag bs gur qrfver bs obgu
cnegvrf gb unfgra gur artbgvngvba gb vgf pbapyhfvba naq gb frggyr gur
dhrfgvba va qvfchgr nf rneyl nf cbffvoyr. Va gur pbhefr bs gur frffvba vg
vf zl ubcr gb or noyr gb naabhapr fbzr shegure qrterr bs cebterff gbjneq
gur nppbzcyvfuzrag bs guvf uvtuyl qrfvenoyr raq.

Gur pbzzvffvba nccbvagrq ol guvf Tbireazrag sbe gur rkcybengvba naq fheirl
bs gur yvar bs obhaqnel frcnengvat gur Fgngrf bs Znvar naq Arj Unzcfuver
sebz gur pbagrezvabhf Oevgvfu Cebivaprf vf, vg vf oryvrirq, nobhg gb pybfr
vgf svryq ynobef naq vf rkcrpgrq fbba gb ercbeg gur erfhygf bs vgf
rknzvangvbaf gb gur Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr. Gur ercbeg, jura erprvirq, jvyy or
ynvq orsber Pbaterff.

Gur snvyher ba gur cneg bs Fcnva gb cnl jvgu chapghnyvgl gur vagrerfg qhr
haqre gur pbairagvba bs 1834 sbe gur frggyrzrag bs pynvzf orgjrra gur gjb
pbhagevrf unf znqr vg gur qhgl bs gur Rkrphgvir gb pnyy gur cnegvphyne
nggragvba bs gung Tbireazrag gb gur fhowrpg. N qvfcbfvgvba unf orra
znavsrfgrq ol vg, juvpu vf oryvrirq gb or ragveryl fvaprer, gb shysvyy vgf
boyvtngvbaf va guvf erfcrpg fb fbba nf vgf vagreany pbaqvgvba naq gur fgngr
bs vgf svanaprf jvyy crezvg. Na neenatrzrag vf va cebterff sebz gur erfhyg
bs juvpu vg vf gehfgrq gung gubfr bs bhe pvgvmraf jub unir pynvzf haqre gur
pbairagvba jvyy ng ab qvfgnag qnl erprvir gur fgvchyngrq cnlzragf.

N gerngl bs pbzzrepr naq anivtngvba jvgu Orytvhz jnf pbapyhqrq naq fvtarq
ng Jnfuvatgba ba gur 29gu bs Znepu, 1840, naq jnf qhyl fnapgvbarq ol gur
Frangr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Gur gerngl jnf engvsvrq ol Uvf Orytvna
Znwrfgl, ohg qvq abg erprvir gur nccebongvba bs gur Orytvna Punzoref jvguva
gur gvzr yvzvgrq ol vgf grezf, naq unf gurersber orpbzr ibvq.

Guvf bppheerapr nffhzrf gur tenire nfcrpg sebz gur pbafvqrengvba gung va
1833 n gerngl artbgvngrq orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf naq engvsvrq ba gur
cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf snvyrq gb or engvsvrq ba gur cneg bs Orytvhz. Gur
ercerfragngvir bs gung Tbireazrag ng Jnfuvatgba vasbezf gur Qrcnegzrag bs
Fgngr gung ur unf orra vafgehpgrq gb tvir rkcynangvbaf bs gur pnhfrf juvpu
bppnfvbarq qrynl va gur nccebiny bs gur yngr gerngl ol gur yrtvfyngher, naq
gb rkcerff gur erterg bs gur Xvat ng gur bppheerapr.

Gur wbvag pbzzvffvba haqre gur pbairagvba jvgu Grknf gb nfpregnva gur gehr
obhaqnel orgjrra gur gjb pbhagevrf unf pbapyhqrq vgf ynobef, ohg gur svany
ercbeg bs gur pbzzvffvbare bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf abg orra erprvirq. Vg
vf haqrefgbbq, ubjrire, gung gur zrevqvna yvar nf genprq ol gur pbzzvffvba
yvrf fbzrjung snegure rnfg guna gur cbfvgvba uvguregb trarenyyl nffvtarq gb
vg, naq pbafrdhragyl vapyhqrf va Grknf fbzr cneg bs gur greevgbel juvpu unq
orra pbafvqrerq nf orybatvat gb gur Fgngrf bs Ybhvfvnan naq Nexnafnf.

Gur Havgrq Fgngrf pna abg ohg gnxr n qrrc vagrerfg va jungrire eryngrf gb
guvf lbhat ohg tebjvat Erchoyvp. Frggyrq cevapvcnyyl ol rzvtenagf sebz gur
Havgrq Fgngrf, jr unir gur unccvarff gb xabj gung gur terng cevapvcyrf bs
pvivy yvoregl ner gurer qrfgvarq gb sybhevfu haqre jvfr vafgvghgvbaf naq
jubyrfbzr ynjf, naq gung guebhtu vgf rknzcyr nabgure rivqrapr vf gb or
nssbeqrq bs gur pncnpvgl bs cbchyne vafgvghgvbaf gb nqinapr gur cebfcrevgl,
unccvarff, naq creznarag tybel bs gur uhzna enpr. Gur terng gehgu gung
tbireazrag jnf znqr sbe gur crbcyr naq abg gur crbcyr sbe tbireazrag unf
nyernql orra rfgnoyvfurq va gur cenpgvpr naq ol gur rknzcyr bs gurfr Havgrq
Fgngrf, naq jr pna qb ab bgure guna pbagrzcyngr vgf shegure rkrzcyvsvpngvba
ol n fvfgre erchoyvp jvgu gur qrrcrfg vagrerfg.

Bhe eryngvbaf jvgu gur vaqrcraqrag Fgngrf bs guvf urzvfcurer, sbezreyl
haqre gur qbzvavba bs Fcnva, unir abg haqretbar nal zngrevny punatr jvguva
gur cnfg lrne. Gur vaprffnag fnathvanel pbasyvpgf va be orgjrra gubfr
pbhagevrf ner gb or terngyl qrcyberq nf arprffnevyl graqvat gb qvfnoyr gurz
sebz cresbezvat gurve qhgl nf zrzoref bs gur pbzzhavgl bs angvbaf naq
evfvat gb gur qrfgval juvpu gur cbfvgvba naq angheny erfbheprf bs znal bs
gurz zvtug yrnq gurz whfgyl gb nagvpvcngr, nf pbafgnagyl tvivat bppnfvba
nyfb, qverpgyl be vaqverpgyl, sbe pbzcynvagf ba gur cneg bs bhe pvgvmraf
jub erfbeg guvgure sbe checbfrf bs pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr, naq nf ergneqvat
ercnengvba sbe jebatf nyernql pbzzvggrq, fbzr bs juvpu ner ol ab zrnaf bs
erprag qngr.

Gur snvyher bs gur Pbaterff bs Rphnqbe gb ubyq n frffvba ng gur gvzr
nccbvagrq sbe gung checbfr, va Wnahnel ynfg, jvyy cebonoyl eraqre nobegvir
n gerngl bs pbzzrepr jvgu gung Erchoyvp, juvpu jnf fvtarq ng Dhvgb ba gur
13gu bs Whar, 1839, naq unq orra qhyl engvsvrq ba bhe cneg, ohg juvpu
erdhverq gur nccebongvba bs gung obql cevbe gb vgf engvsvpngvba ol gur
Rphnqbevna Rkrphgvir.

N pbairagvba juvpu unf orra pbapyhqrq jvgu gur Erchoyvp bs Creh, cebivqvat
sbe gur frggyrzrag bs pregnva pynvzf bs pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf hcba
gur Tbireazrag bs gung Erchoyvp, jvyy or qhyl fhozvggrq gb gur Frangr.

Gur pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf ntnvafg gur Oenmvyvna Tbireazrag bevtvangvat
sebz pncgherf naq bgure pnhfrf ner fgvyy hafngvfsvrq. Gur Havgrq Fgngrf
unir, ubjrire, fb havsbezyl fubja n qvfcbfvgvba gb phygvingr eryngvbaf bs
nzvgl jvgu gung Rzcver gung vg vf ubcrq gur hardhvibpny gbxraf bs gur fnzr
fcvevg gbjneq hf juvpu na nqwhfgzrag bs gur nssnvef ersreerq gb jbhyq
nssbeq jvyy or tvira jvgubhg shegure nibvqnoyr qrynl.

Gur jne jvgu gur Vaqvna gevorf ba gur cravafhyn bs Sybevqn unf qhevat gur
ynfg fhzzre naq snyy orra cebfrphgrq jvgu hagvevat npgvivgl naq mrny. N
fhzzre pnzcnvta jnf erfbyirq hcba nf gur orfg zbqr bs oevatvat vg gb n
pybfr. Bhe oenir bssvpref naq zra jub unir orra ratntrq va gung freivpr
unir fhssrerq gbvyf naq cevingvbaf naq rkuvovgrq na raretl juvpu va nal
bgure jne jbhyq unir jba sbe gurz hasnqvat ynheryf. Va qrfcvgr bs gur
fvpxarff vapvqrag gb gur pyvzngr, gurl unir crargengrq gur snfgarffrf bs
gur Vaqvnaf, oebxra hc gurve rapnzczragf, naq unenffrq gurz haprnfvatyl.
Ahzoref unir orra pncgherq, naq fgvyy terngre ahzoref unir fheeraqrerq naq
unir orra genafcbegrq gb wbva gurve oerguera ba gur ynaqf ryfrjurer
nyybggrq gb gurz ol gur Tbireazrag, naq n fgebat ubcr vf ragregnvarq gung
haqre gur pbaqhpg bs gur tnyynag bssvpre ng gur urnq bs gur gebbcf va
Sybevqn gung gebhoyrfbzr naq rkcrafvir jne vf qrfgvarq gb n fcrrql
grezvangvba. Jvgu nyy gur bgure Vaqvna gevorf jr ner rawblvat gur oyrffvatf
bs crnpr. Bhe qhgl nf jryy nf bhe orfg vagrerfgf cebzcgf hf gb bofreir va
nyy bhe vagrepbhefr jvgu gurz svqryvgl va shysvyyvat bhe ratntrzragf, gur
cenpgvpr bs fgevpg whfgvpr, nf jryy nf gur pbafgnag rkrepvfr bs npgf bs
oraribyrapr naq xvaqarff. Gurfr ner gur terng vafgehzragf bs pvivyvmngvba,
naq guebhtu gur hfr bs gurz nybar pna gur haghgberq puvyq bs gur sberfg or
vaqhprq gb yvfgra gb vgf grnpuvatf.

Gur Frpergnel bs Fgngr, ba jubz gur npgf bs Pbaterff unir qribyirq gur qhgl
bs qverpgvat gur cebprrqvatf sbe gur gnxvat bs gur fvkgu prafhf be
rahzrengvba bs gur vaunovgnagf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jvyy ercbeg gb gur gjb
Ubhfrf gur cebterff bs gung jbex. Gur rahzrengvba bs crefbaf unf orra
pbzcyrgrq, naq rkuvovgf n tenaq gbgny bs 17,069,453, znxvat na vapernfr
bire gur prafhf bs 1830 bs 4,202,646 vaunovgnagf, naq fubjvat n tnva va n
engvb rkprrqvat 32 1/2 cre prag sbe gur ynfg gra lrnef.

Sebz gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel lbh jvyy or vasbezrq bs
gur pbaqvgvba bs gur svanaprf. Gur onynapr va gur Gernfhel ba gur 1fg bs
Wnahnel ynfg, nf fgngrq va gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel
fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff ng gur rkgen frffvba, jnf $987,345.03. Gur erprvcgf
vagb gur Gernfhel qhevat gur svefg guerr dhnegref bs guvf lrne sebz nyy
fbheprf nzbhag gb $23,467,072.52; gur rfgvzngrq erprvcgf sbe gur sbhegu
dhnegre nzbhag gb $6,943,095.25, nzbhagvat gb $30,410,167.77, naq znxvat
jvgu gur onynapr va gur Gernfhel ba gur 1fg bs Wnahnel ynfg $31,397,512.80.
Gur rkcraqvgherf sbe gur svefg guerr dhnegref bs guvf lrne nzbhag gb
$24,734,346.97. Gur rkcraqvgherf sbe gur sbhegu dhnegre nf rfgvzngrq jvyy
nzbhag gb $7,290,723.73, guhf znxvat n gbgny bs $32,025,070.70, naq yrnivat
n qrsvpvg gb or cebivqrq sbe ba gur 1fg bs Wnahnel arkg bs nobhg
$627,557.90.

Bs gur ybna bs $12,000,000 juvpu jnf nhgubevmrq ol Pbaterff ng vgf yngr
frffvba bayl $5,432,726.88 unir orra artbgvngrq. Gur fubegarff bs gvzr
juvpu vg unq gb eha unf cerfragrq ab vapbafvqrenoyr vzcrqvzrag va gur jnl
bs vgf orvat gnxra ol pncvgnyvfgf ng ubzr, juvyr gur fnzr pnhfr jbhyq unir
bcrengrq jvgu zhpu terngre sbepr va gur sbervta znexrg. Sbe gung ernfba gur
sbervta znexrg unf abg orra erfbegrq gb; naq vg vf abj fhozvggrq jurgure vg
jbhyq abg or nqivfnoyr gb nzraq gur ynj ol znxvat jung erznvaf haqvfcbfrq
bs cnlnoyr ng n zber qvfgnag qnl.

Fubhyq vg or arprffnel, va nal ivrj gung Pbaterff znl gnxr bs gur fhowrpg,
gb erivfr gur rkvfgvat gnevss bs qhgvrf, V ort yrnir gb fnl gung va gur
cresbeznapr bs gung zbfg qryvpngr bcrengvba zbqrengr pbhafryf jbhyq frrz gb
or gur jvfrfg. Gur Tbireazrag haqre juvpu vg vf bhe unccvarff gb yvir bjrf
vgf rkvfgrapr gb gur fcvevg bs pbzcebzvfr juvpu cerinvyrq nzbat vgf
senzref; wneevat naq qvfpbeqnag bcvavbaf pbhyq bayl unir orra erpbapvyrq ol
gung aboyr fcvevg bs cngevbgvfz juvpu cebzcgrq pbapvyvngvba naq erfhygrq va
unezbal. Va gur fnzr fcvevg gur pbzcebzvfr ovyy, nf vg vf pbzzbayl pnyyrq,
jnf nqbcgrq ng gur frffvba bs 1833. Juvyr gur crbcyr bs ab cbegvba bs gur
Havba jvyy rire urfvgngr gb cnl nyy arprffnel gnkrf sbe gur fhccbeg bs
Tbireazrag, lrg na vaangr erchtanapr rkvfgf gb gur vzcbfvgvba bs oheguraf
abg ernyyl arprffnel sbe gung bowrpg. Va vzcbfvat qhgvrf, ubjrire, sbe gur
checbfrf bs erirahr n evtug gb qvfpevzvangr nf gb gur negvpyrf ba juvpu gur
qhgl funyy or ynvq, nf jryy nf gur nzbhag, arprffnevyl naq zbfg cebcreyl
rkvfgf; bgurejvfr gur Tbireazrag jbhyq or cynprq va gur pbaqvgvba bs univat
gb yril gur fnzr qhgvrf hcba nyy negvpyrf, gur cebqhpgvir nf jryy nf gur
hacebqhpgvir. Gur fyvtugrfg qhgl hcba fbzr zvtug unir gur rssrpg bs pnhfvat
gurve vzcbegngvba gb prnfr, jurernf bguref, ragrevat rkgrafviryl vagb gur
pbafhzcgvba bs gur pbhagel, zvtug orne gur urnivrfg jvgubhg nal frafvoyr
qvzvahgvba va gur nzbhag vzcbegrq. Fb nyfb gur Tbireazrag znl or whfgvsvrq
va fb qvfpevzvangvat ol ersrerapr gb bgure pbafvqrengvbaf bs qbzrfgvp
cbyvpl pbaarpgrq jvgu bhe znahsnpgherf. Fb ybat nf gur qhgvrf funyy or ynvq
jvgu qvfgvapg ersrerapr gb gur jnagf bs gur Gernfhel ab jryy-ebhaqrq
bowrpgvba pna rkvfg ntnvafg gurz. Vg zvtug or rfgrrzrq qrfvenoyr gung ab
fhpu nhtzragngvba bs gur gnkrf fubhyq gnxr cynpr nf jbhyq unir gur rssrpg
bs naahyyvat gur ynaq-cebprrqf qvfgevohgvba npg bs gur ynfg frffvba, juvpu
npg vf qrpynerq gb or vabcrengvir gur zbzrag gur qhgvrf ner vapernfrq
orlbaq 20 cre prag, gur znkvzhz engr rfgnoyvfurq ol gur pbzcebzvfr npg.
Fbzr bs gur cebivfvbaf bs gur pbzcebzvfr npg, juvpu jvyy tb vagb rssrpg ba
gur 30gu qnl bs Whar arkg, znl, ubjrire, or sbhaq rkprrqvatyl vapbairavrag
va cenpgvpr haqre nal erthyngvbaf gung Pbaterff znl nqbcg. V ersre zber
cnegvphyneyl gb gung eryngvat gb gur ubzr inyhngvba. N qvssrerapr va inyhr
bs gur fnzr negvpyrf gb fbzr rkgrag jvyy arprffnevyl rkvfg ng qvssrerag
cbegf, ohg gung vf nygbtrgure vafvtavsvpnag jura pbzcnerq jvgu gur
pbasyvpgf va inyhngvba juvpu ner yvxryl gb nevfr sebz gur qvssreraprf bs
bcvavba nzbat gur ahzrebhf nccenvfref bs zrepunaqvfr. Va znal vafgnaprf gur
rfgvzngrf bs inyhr zhfg or pbawrpgheny, naq guhf nf znal qvssrerag engrf bs
inyhr znl or rfgnoyvfurq nf gurer ner nccenvfref. Gurfr qvssreraprf va
inyhngvba znl nyfb or vapernfrq ol gur vapyvangvba juvpu, jvgubhg gur
fyvtugrfg vzchgngvba ba gurve ubarfgl, znl nevfr ba gur cneg bs gur
nccenvfref va snibe bs gurve erfcrpgvir cbegf bs ragel. V erpbzzraq guvf
jubyr fhowrpg gb gur pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff jvgu n fvatyr nqqvgvbany
erznex. Pregnvagl naq creznarapl va nal flfgrz bs tbireazragny cbyvpl ner
va nyy erfcrpgf rzvaragyl qrfvenoyr, ohg zber cnegvphyneyl vf guvf gehr va
nyy gung nssrpgf genqr naq pbzzrepr, gur bcrengvbaf bs juvpu qrcraq zhpu
zber ba gur pregnvagl bs gurve ergheaf naq pnyphyngvbaf juvpu rzoenpr
qvfgnag crevbqf bs gvzr guna ba uvtu obhagvrf be qhgvrf, juvpu ner yvnoyr
gb pbafgnag syhpghngvbaf.

Ng lbhe yngr frffvba V vaivgrq lbhe nggragvba gb gur pbaqvgvba bs gur
pheerapl naq rkpunatrf naq hetrq gur arprffvgl bs nqbcgvat fhpu zrnfherf nf
jrer pbafvfgrag jvgu gur pbafgvghgvbany pbzcrgrapl bs gur Tbireazrag va
beqre gb pbeerpg gur hafbhaqarff bs gur bar naq, nf sne nf cenpgvpnoyr, gur
vardhnyvgvrf bs gur bgure. Ab pbhagel pna or va gur rawblzrag bs vgf shyy
zrnfher bs cebfcrevgl jvgubhg gur cerfrapr bs n zrqvhz bs rkpunatr
nccebkvzngvat gb havsbezvgl bs inyhr. Jung vf arprffnel nf orgjrra gur
qvssrerag angvbaf bs gur rnegu vf nyfb vzcbegnag nf orgjrra gur vaunovgnagf
bs qvssrerag cnegf bs gur fnzr pbhagel. Jvgu gur svefg gur cerpvbhf zrgnyf
pbafgvghgr gur puvrs zrqvhz bs pvephyngvba, naq fhpu nyfb jbhyq or gur pnfr
nf gb gur ynfg ohg sbe vairagvbaf pbzcnengviryl zbqrea, juvpu unir
sheavfurq va cynpr bs tbyq naq fvyire n cncre pvephyngvba. V qb abg cebcbfr
gb ragre vagb n pbzcnengvir nanylfvf bs gur zrevgf bs gur gjb flfgrzf. Fhpu
orybatrq zber cebcreyl gb gur crevbq bs gur vagebqhpgvba bs gur cncre
flfgrz. Gur fcrphyngvir cuvybfbcure zvtug svaq vaqhprzragf gb cebfrphgr gur
vadhvel, ohg uvf erfrnepurf pbhyq bayl yrnq uvz gb pbapyhqr gung gur cncre
flfgrz unq cebonoyl orggre arire unir orra vagebqhprq naq gung fbpvrgl
zvtug unir orra zhpu unccvre jvgubhg vg. Gur cenpgvpny fgngrfzna unf n irel
qvssrerag gnfx gb cresbez. Ur unf gb ybbx ng guvatf nf gurl ner, gb gnxr
gurz nf ur svaqf gurz, gb fhccyl qrsvpvrapvrf naq gb cehar rkprffrf nf sne
nf va uvz yvrf. Gur gnfx bs sheavfuvat n pbeerpgvir sbe qrenatrzragf bs gur
cncre zrqvhz jvgu hf vf nyzbfg varkcerffvoyl terng. Gur cbjre rkregrq ol
gur Fgngrf gb punegre onaxvat pbecbengvbaf, naq juvpu, univat orra pneevrq
gb n terng rkprff, unf svyyrq gur pbhagel jvgu, va zbfg bs gur Fgngrf, na
veerqrrznoyr cncre zrqvhz, vf na rivy juvpu va fbzr jnl be bgure erdhverf n
pbeerpgvir. Gur engrf ng juvpu ovyyf bs rkpunatr ner artbgvngrq orgjrra
qvssrerag cnegf bs gur pbhagel sheavfu na vaqrk bs gur inyhr bs gur ybpny
fhofgvghgr sbe tbyq naq fvyire, juvpu vf va znal cnegf fb sne qrcerpvngrq
nf abg gb or erprvirq rkprcg ng n ynetr qvfpbhag va cnlzrag bs qrogf be va
gur chepunfr bs cebqhpr. Vg pbhyq rnearfgyl or qrfverq gung rirel onax abg
cbffrffvat gur zrnaf bs erfhzcgvba fubhyq sbyybj gur rknzcyr bs gur yngr
Havgrq Fgngrf Onax bs Craaflyinavn naq tb vagb yvdhvqngvba engure guna ol
ershfvat gb qb fb gb pbagvahr rzoneenffzragf va gur jnl bs fbyirag
vafgvghgvbaf, gurerol nhtzragvat gur qvssvphygvrf vapvqrag gb gur cerfrag
pbaqvgvba bs guvatf. Jurgure guvf Tbireazrag, jvgu qhr ertneq gb gur evtugf
bs gur Fgngrf, unf nal cbjre gb pbafgenva gur onaxf rvgure gb erfhzr fcrpvr
cnlzragf be gb sbepr gurz vagb yvdhvqngvba, vf na vadhvel juvpu jvyy abg
snvy gb pynvz lbhe pbafvqrengvba. Va ivrj bs gur terng nqinagntrf juvpu ner
nyybjrq gur pbecbengbef, abg nzbat gur yrnfg bs juvpu vf gur nhgubevgl
pbagnvarq va zbfg bs gurve punegref gb znxr ybnaf gb guerr gvzrf gur nzbhag
bs gurve pncvgny, gurerol bsgra qrevivat guerr gvzrf nf zhpu vagrerfg ba
gur fnzr nzbhag bs zbarl nf nal vaqvivqhny vf crezvggrq ol ynj gb erprvir,
ab fhssvpvrag ncbybtl pna or hetrq sbe n ybat-pbagvahrq fhfcrafvba bs
fcrpvr cnlzragf. Fhpu fhfcrafvba vf cebqhpgvir bs gur terngrfg qrgevzrag gb
gur choyvp ol rkcryyvat sebz pvephyngvba gur cerpvbhf zrgnyf naq frevbhfyl
unmneqvat gur fhpprff bs nal rssbeg gung guvf Tbireazrag pna znxr gb
vapernfr pbzzrepvny snpvyvgvrf naq gb nqinapr gur choyvp vagrerfgf.

Guvf vf gur zber gb or erterggrq naq gur vaqvfcrafnoyr arprffvgl sbe n
fbhaq pheerapl orpbzrf gur zber znavsrfg jura jr ersyrpg ba gur infg nzbhag
bs gur vagreany pbzzrepr bs gur pbhagel. Bs guvf jr unir ab fgngvfgvpf abe
whfg qngn sbe sbezvat nqrdhngr bcvavbaf. Ohg gurer pna or ab qbhog ohg gung
gur nzbhag bs genafcbegngvba pbnfgjvfr ol frn, naq gur genafcbegngvba
vaynaq ol envyebnqf naq pnanyf, naq ol fgrnzobngf naq bgure zbqrf bs
pbairlnapr bire gur fhesnpr bs bhe infg eviref naq vzzrafr ynxrf, naq gur
inyhr bs cebcregl pneevrq naq vagrepunatrq ol gurfr zrnaf sbez n trareny
nttertngr gb juvpu gur sbervta pbzzrepr bs gur pbhagel, ynetr nf vg vf,
znxrf ohg n qvfgnag nccebnpu.

Va gur nofrapr bs nal pbagebyyvat cbjre bire guvf fhowrpg, juvpu, ol
sbepvat n trareny erfhzcgvba bs fcrpvr cnlzragf, jbhyq ng bapr unir gur
rssrpg bs erfgbevat n fbhaq zrqvhz bs rkpunatr naq jbhyq yrnir gb gur
pbhagel ohg yvggyr gb qrfver, jung zrnfher bs eryvrs snyyvat jvguva gur
yvzvgf bs bhe pbafgvghgvbany pbzcrgrapl qbrf vg orpbzr guvf Tbireazrag gb
nqbcg? Vg jnf zl cnvashy qhgl ng lbhe ynfg frffvba, haqre gur jrvtug bs
zbfg fbyrza boyvtngvbaf, gb qvssre jvgu Pbaterff ba gur zrnfherf juvpu vg
cebcbfrq sbe zl nccebiny, naq juvpu vg qbhogyrff ertneqrq nf pbeerpgvir bs
rkvfgvat rivyf. Fhofrdhrag ersyrpgvba naq riragf fvapr bppheevat unir bayl
freirq gb pbasvez zr va gur bcvavbaf gura ragregnvarq naq senaxyl
rkcerffrq. V zhfg or crezvggrq gb nqq gung ab fpurzr bs tbireazragny cbyvpl
hanvqrq ol vaqvivqhny rkregvbaf pna or ninvynoyr sbe nzryvbengvat gur
cerfrag pbaqvgvba bs guvatf. Pbzzrepvny zbqrf bs rkpunatr naq n tbbq
pheerapl ner ohg gur arprffnel zrnaf bs pbzzrepr naq vagrepbhefr, abg gur
qverpg cebqhpgvir fbheprf bs jrnygu. Jrnygu pna bayl or npphzhyngrq ol gur
rneavatf bs vaqhfgel naq gur fnivatf bs sehtnyvgl, naq abguvat pna or zber
vyy whqtrq guna gb ybbx gb snpvyvgvrf va obeebjvat be gb n erqhaqnag
pvephyngvba sbe gur cbjre bs qvfpunetvat crphavnel boyvtngvbaf. Gur pbhagel
vf shyy bs erfbheprf naq gur crbcyr snyy bs raretl, naq gur terng naq
creznarag erzrql sbe cerfrag rzoneenffzragf zhfg or fbhtug va vaqhfgel,
rpbabzl, gur bofreinapr bs tbbq snvgu, naq gur snibenoyr vasyhrapr bs gvzr.
Va chefhnapr bs n cyrqtr tvira gb lbh va zl ynfg zrffntr gb Pbaterff, juvpu
cyrqtr V hetr nf na ncbybtl sbe nqiraghevat gb cerfrag lbh gur qrgnvyf bs
nal cyna, gur Frpergnel bs gur Gernfhel jvyy or ernql gb fhozvg gb lbh,
fubhyq lbh erdhver vg, n cyna bs svanapr juvpu, juvyr vg guebjf nebhaq gur
choyvp gernfher ernfbanoyr thneqf sbe vgf cebgrpgvba naq erfgf ba cbjref
npxabjyrqtrq va cenpgvpr gb rkvfg sebz gur bevtva bs gur Tbireazrag, jvyy
ng gur fnzr gvzr sheavfu gb gur pbhagel n fbhaq cncre zrqvhz naq nssbeq nyy
ernfbanoyr snpvyvgvrf sbe erthyngvat gur rkpunatrf. Jura fhozvggrq, lbh
jvyy creprvir va vg n cyna nzraqngbel bs gur rkvfgvat ynjf va eryngvba gb
gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag, fhobeqvangr va nyy erfcrpgf gb gur jvyy bs
Pbaterff qverpgyl naq gur jvyy bs gur crbcyr vaqverpgyl, frys-fhfgnvavat
fubhyq vg or sbhaq va cenpgvpr gb ernyvmr vgf cebzvfrf va gurbel, naq
ercrnynoyr ng gur cyrnfher bs Pbaterff. Vg cebcbfrf ol rssrpghny erfgenvagf
naq ol vaibxvat gur gehr fcvevg bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf gb frcnengr gur chefr
sebz gur fjbeq, be, zber cebcreyl gb fcrnx, qravrf nal bgure pbageby gb gur
Cerfvqrag bire gur ntragf jub znl or fryrpgrq gb pneel vg vagb rkrphgvba
ohg jung znl or vaqvfcrafnoyl arprffnel gb frpher gur svqryvgl bs fhpu
ntragf, naq ol jvfr erthyngvbaf xrrcf cynvayl ncneg sebz rnpu bgure cevingr
naq choyvp shaqf. Vg pbagrzcyngrf gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs n obneq bs pbageby
ng gur frng bs tbireazrag, jvgu ntrapvrf ng cebzvarag pbzzrepvny cbvagf be
jurerire ryfr Pbaterff funyy qverpg, sbe gur fnsr-xrrcvat naq qvfohefrzrag
bs gur choyvp zbarlf naq n fhofgvghgvba ng gur bcgvba bs gur choyvp
perqvgbe bs Gernfhel abgrf va yvrh bs tbyq naq fvyire. Vg cebcbfrf gb yvzvg
gur vffhrf gb na nzbhag abg gb rkprrq $15,000,000 jvgubhg gur rkcerff
fnapgvba bs gur yrtvfyngvir cbjre. Vg nyfb nhgubevmrf gur erprvcg bs
vaqvivqhny qrcbfvgf bs tbyq naq fvyire gb n yvzvgrq nzbhag, naq gur
tenagvat pregvsvpngrf bs qrcbfvg qvivqrq vagb fhpu fhzf nf znl or pnyyrq
sbe ol gur qrcbfvgbef. Vg cebprrqf n fgrc shegure naq nhgubevmrf gur
chepunfr naq fnyr bs qbzrfgvp ovyyf naq qensgf erfgvat ba n erny naq
fhofgnagvny onfvf, cnlnoyr ng fvtug be univat ohg n fubeg gvzr gb eha, naq
qenja ba cynprf abg yrff guna 100 zvyrf ncneg, juvpu nhgubevgl, rkprcg va
fb sne nf znl or arprffnel sbe Tbireazrag checbfrf rkpyhfviryl, vf bayl gb
or rkregrq hcba gur rkcerff pbaqvgvba gung vgf rkrepvfr funyy abg or
cebuvovgrq ol gur Fgngr va juvpu gur ntrapl vf fvghngrq. Va beqre gb pbire
gur rkcrafrf vapvqrag gb gur cyna, vg jvyy or nhgubevmrq gb erprvir
zbqrengr cerzvhzf sbe pregvsvpngrf vffhrq ba qrcbfvgf naq ba ovyyf obhtug
naq fbyq, naq guhf, nf sne nf vgf qrnyvatf rkgraq, gb sheavfu snpvyvgvrf gb
pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr ng gur ybjrfg cbffvoyr engrf naq gb fhoqhpg sebz gur
rneavatf bs vaqhfgel gur yrnfg cbffvoyr fhz. Vg hfrf gur Fgngr onaxf ng n
qvfgnapr sebz gur ntrapvrf nf nhkvyvnevrf jvgubhg vzcnegvat nal cbjre gb
genqr va vgf anzr. Vg vf fhowrpgrq gb fhpu thneqf naq erfgenvagf nf unir
nccrnerq gb or arprffnel. Vg vf gur perngher bs ynj naq rkvfgf bayl ng gur
cyrnfher bs gur Yrtvfyngher. Vg vf znqr gb erfg ba na npghny fcrpvr onfvf
va beqre gb erqrrz gur abgrf ng gur cynprf bs vffhr, cebqhprf ab qnatrebhf
erqhaqnapl bs pvephyngvba, nssbeqf ab grzcgngvba gb fcrphyngvba, vf
nggraqrq ol ab vasyngvba bs cevprf, vf rdhnoyr va vgf bcrengvba, znxrf gur
Gernfhel abgrf (juvpu vg znl hfr nybat jvgu gur pregvsvpngrf bs qrcbfvg naq
gur abgrf bs fcrpvr-cnlvat onaxf) pbairegvoyr ng gur cynpr jurer pbyyrpgrq,
erprvinoyr va cnlzrag bs Tbireazrag qhrf, naq jvgubhg ivbyngvat nal
cevapvcyr bs gur Pbafgvghgvba nssbeqf gur Tbireazrag naq gur crbcyr fhpu
snpvyvgvrf nf ner pnyyrq sbe ol gur jnagf bs obgu. Fhpu, vg unf nccrnerq gb
zr, ner vgf erpbzzraqngvbaf, naq va ivrj bs gurz vg jvyy or fhozvggrq,
jurarire lbh znl erdhver vg, gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba.

V nz abg noyr gb creprvir gung nal snve naq pnaqvq bowrpgvba pna or hetrq
ntnvafg gur cyna, gur cevapvcny bhgyvarf bs juvpu V unir guhf cerfragrq. V
pna abg qbhog ohg gung gur abgrf juvpu vg cebcbfrf gb sheavfu ng gur
ibyhagnel bcgvba bs gur choyvp perqvgbe, vffhrq va yvrh bs gur erirahr naq
vgf pregvsvpngrf bs qrcbfvg, jvyy or znvagnvarq ng na rdhnyvgl jvgu tbyq
naq fvyire rireljurer. Gurl ner erqrrznoyr va tbyq naq fvyire ba qrznaq ng
gur cynprf bs vffhr. Gurl ner erprvinoyr rireljurer va cnlzrag bs
Tbireazrag qhrf. Gur Gernfhel abgrf ner yvzvgrq gb na nzbhag bs bar-sbhegu
yrff guna gur rfgvzngrq naahny erprvcgf bs gur Gernfhel, naq va nqqvgvba
gurl erfg hcba gur snvgu bs gur Tbireazrag sbe gurve erqrzcgvba. Vs nyy
gurfr nffhenaprf ner abg fhssvpvrag gb znxr gurz ninvynoyr, gura gur vqrn,
nf vg frrzf gb zr, bs sheavfuvat n fbhaq cncre zrqvhz bs rkpunatr znl or
ragveryl nonaqbarq.

Vs n srne or vaqhytrq gung gur Tbireazrag znl or grzcgrq gb eha vagb rkprff
va vgf vffhrf ng nal shgher qnl, vg frrzf gb zr gung ab fhpu nccerurafvba
pna ernfbanoyl or ragregnvarq hagvy nyy pbasvqrapr va gur ercerfragngvirf
bs gur Fgngrf naq bs gur crbcyr, nf jryy nf bs gur crbcyr gurzfryirf, funyy
or ybfg. Gur jrvtugvrfg pbafvqrengvbaf bs cbyvpl erdhver gung gur
erfgenvagf abj cebcbfrq gb or guebja nebhaq gur zrnfher fubhyq abg sbe
yvtug pnhfrf or erzbirq. Gb nethr ntnvafg nal cebcbfrq cyna vgf yvnovyvgl
gb cbffvoyr nohfr vf gb erwrpg rirel rkcrqvrag, fvapr rirelguvat qrcraqrag
ba uhzna npgvba vf yvnoyr gb nohfr. Svsgrra zvyyvbaf bs Gernfhel abgrf znl
or vffhrq nf gur znkvzhz, ohg n qvfpergvbanel cbjre vf gb or tvira gb gur
obneq bs pbageby haqre gung fhz, naq rirel pbafvqrengvba jvyy havgr va
yrnqvat gurz gb srry gurve jnl jvgu pnhgvba. Sbe gur svefg rvtug lrnef bs
gur rkvfgrapr bs gur yngr Onax bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf vgf pvephyngvba oneryl
rkprrqrq $4,000,000, naq sbe svir bs vgf zbfg cebfcrebhf lrnef vg jnf nobhg
rdhny gb $16,000,000; shegurezber, gur nhgubevgl tvira gb erprvir cevingr
qrcbfvgf gb n yvzvgrq nzbhag naq gb vffhr pregvsvpngrf va fhpu fhzf nf znl
or pnyyrq sbe ol gur qrcbfvgbef znl fb sne svyy hc gur punaaryf bs
pvephyngvba nf terngyl gb qvzvavfu gur arprffvgl bs nal pbafvqrenoyr vffhr
bs Gernfhel abgrf. N erfgenvag hcba gur nzbhag bs cevingr qrcbfvgf unf
frrzrq gb or vaqvfcrafnoyl arprffnel sebz na nccerurafvba, gubhtug gb or
jryy sbhaqrq, gung va nal rzretrapl bs genqr pbasvqrapr zvtug or fb sne
funxra va gur onaxf nf gb vaqhpr n jvguqenjny sebz gurz bs cevingr qrcbfvgf
jvgu n ivrj gb vafher gurve hadhrfgvbanoyr fnsrgl jura qrcbfvgrq jvgu gur
Tbireazrag, juvpu zvtug cebir rzvaragyl qvfnfgebhf gb gur Fgngr onaxf. Vf
vg bowrpgrq gung vg vf cebcbfrq gb nhgubevmr gur ntrapvrf gb qrny va ovyyf
bs rkpunatr? Vg vf nafjrerq gung fhpu qrnyvatf ner gb or pneevrq ba ng gur
ybjrfg cbffvoyr cerzvhz, ner znqr gb erfg ba na hadhrfgvbanoyl fbhaq onfvf,
ner qrfvtarq gb ervzohefr zreryl gur rkcrafrf juvpu jbhyq bgurejvfr qribyir
hcba gur Gernfhel, naq ner va fgevpg fhobeqvangvba gb gur qrpvfvba bs gur
Fhcerzr Pbheg va gur pnfr bs gur Onax bs Nhthfgn ntnvafg Rneyr, naq bgure
ercbegrq pnfrf, naq gurerol nibvqf nyy pbasyvpg jvgu Fgngr whevfqvpgvba,
juvpu V ubyq gb or vaqvfcrafnoyl erdhvfvgr. Vg yrnirf gur onaxvat
cevivyrtrf bs gur Fgngrf jvgubhg vagresrerapr, ybbxf gb gur Gernfhel naq
gur Havba, naq juvyr sheavfuvat rirel snpvyvgl gb gur svefg vf pnershy bs
gur vagrerfgf bs gur ynfg. Ohg nobir nyy, vg vf perngrq ol ynj, vf
nzraqnoyr ol ynj, naq vf ercrnynoyr ol ynj, naq, jrqqrq nf V nz gb ab
gurbel, ohg ybbxvat fbyryl gb gur nqinaprzrag bs gur choyvp tbbq, V funyy
or nzbat gur irel svefg gb hetr vgf ercrny vs vg or sbhaq abg gb fhofreir
gur checbfrf naq bowrpgf sbe juvpu vg znl or perngrq. Abe jvyy gur cyna or
fhozvggrq va nal birejrravat pbasvqrapr va gur fhssvpvrapl bs zl bja
whqtzrag, ohg jvgu zhpu terngre eryvnapr ba gur jvfqbz naq cngevbgvfz bs
Pbaterff. V pna abg nonaqba guvf fhowrpg jvgubhg hetvat hcba lbh va gur
zbfg rzcungvp znaare, jungrire znl or lbhe npgvba ba gur fhttrfgvbaf juvpu
V unir sryg vg gb or zl qhgl gb fhozvg, gb eryvrir gur Puvrs Rkrphgvir
Zntvfgengr, ol nal naq nyy pbafgvghgvbany zrnaf, sebz n pbagebyyvat cbjre
bire gur choyvp Gernfhel. Vs va gur cyna cebcbfrq, fubhyq lbh qrrz vg
jbegul bs lbhe pbafvqrengvba, gung frcnengvba vf abg nf pbzcyrgr nf lbh znl
qrfver, lbh jvyy qbhogyrff nzraq vg va gung cnegvphyne. Sbe zlfrys, V
qvfpynvz nyy qrfver gb unir nal pbageby bire gur choyvp zbarlf bgure guna
jung vf vaqvfcrafnoyl arprffnel gb rkrphgr gur ynjf juvpu lbh znl cnff.

Abe pna V snvy gb nqireg va guvf pbaarpgvba gb gur qrogf juvpu znal bs gur
Fgngrf bs gur Havba unir pbagenpgrq noebnq naq haqre juvpu gurl pbagvahr gb
ynobe. Gung vaqrogrqarff nzbhagf gb n fhz abg yrff guna $200,000,000, naq
juvpu unf orra ergevohgrq gb gurz sbe gur zbfg cneg va jbexf bs vagreany
vzcebirzrag juvpu ner qrfgvarq gb cebir bs infg vzcbegnapr va hygvzngryl
nqinapvat gurve cebfcrevgl naq jrnygu. Sbe gur qrogf guhf pbagenpgrq gur
Fgngrf ner nybar erfcbafvoyr. V pna qb abg zber guna rkcerff gur oryvrs
gung rnpu Fgngr jvyy srry vgfrys obhaq ol rirel pbafvqrengvba bs ubabe nf
jryy nf bs vagrerfg gb zrrg vgf ratntrzragf jvgu chapghnyvgl. Gur snvyher,
ubjrire, bs nal bar Fgngr gb qb fb fubhyq va ab qrterr nssrpg gur perqvg bs
gur erfg, naq gur sbervta pncvgnyvfg jvyy unir ab whfg pnhfr gb rkcrevrapr
nynez nf gb nyy bgure Fgngr fgbpxf orpnhfr nal bar be zber bs gur Fgngrf
znl artyrpg gb cebivqr jvgu chapghnyvgl gur zrnaf bs erqrrzvat gurve
ratntrzragf. Rira fhpu Fgngrf, fubhyq gurer or nal, pbafvqrevat gur terng
encvqvgl jvgu juvpu gurve erfbheprf ner qrirybcvat gurzfryirf, jvyy abg
snvy gb unir gur zrnaf ng ab irel qvfgnag qnl gb erqrrz gurve boyvtngvbaf
gb gur hggrezbfg sneguvat; abe jvyy V qbhog ohg gung, va ivrj bs gung
ubabenoyr pbaqhpg juvpu unf rirezber tbirearq gur Fgngrf naq gur crbcyr bs
gur Havba, gurl jvyy rnpu naq nyy erfbeg gb rirel yrtvgvzngr rkcrqvrag
orsber gurl jvyy sbertb n snvgushy pbzcyvnapr jvgu gurve boyvtngvbaf.

Sebz gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs Jne naq bgure ercbegf nppbzcnalvat vg
lbh jvyy or vasbezrq bs gur cebterff juvpu unf orra znqr va gur
sbegvsvpngvbaf qrfvtarq sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs bhe cevapvcny pvgvrf,
ebnqfgrnqf, naq vaynaq sebagvre qhevat gur cerfrag lrne, gbtrgure jvgu
gurve gehr fgngr naq pbaqvgvba. Gurl jvyy or cebfrphgrq gb pbzcyrgvba jvgu
nyy gur rkcrqvgvba juvpu gur zrnaf cynprq ol Pbaterff ng gur qvfcbfny bs
gur Rkrphgvir jvyy nyybj.

V erpbzzraq cnegvphyneyl gb lbhe pbafvqrengvba gung cbegvba bs gur
Frpergnel'f ercbeg juvpu cebcbfrf gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs n punva bs zvyvgnel
cbfgf sebz Pbhapvy Oyhssf gb fbzr cbvag ba gur Cnpvsvp Bprna jvguva bhe
yvzvgf. Gur orarsvg gurerol qrfgvarq gb nppehr gb bhe pvgvmraf ratntrq va
gur she genqr bire gung jvyqrearff ertvba, nqqrq gb gur vzcbegnapr bs
phygvingvat sevraqyl eryngvbaf jvgu fnintr gevorf vaunovgvat vg, naq ng gur
fnzr gvzr bs tvivat cebgrpgvba gb bhe sebagvre frggyrzragf naq bs
rfgnoyvfuvat gur zrnaf bs fnsr vagrepbhefr orgjrra gur Nzrevpna frggyrzragf
ng gur zbhgu bs gur Pbyhzovn Evire naq gubfr ba guvf fvqr bs gur Ebpxl
Zbhagnvaf, jbhyq frrz gb fhttrfg gur vzcbegnapr bs pneelvat vagb rssrpg gur
erpbzzraqngvbaf hcba guvf urnq jvgu nf yvggyr qrynl nf znl or cenpgvpnoyr.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil jvyy cynpr lbh va cbffrffvba bs gur
cerfrag pbaqvgvba bs gung vzcbegnag nez bs gur angvbany qrsrafr. Rirel
rssbeg jvyy or znqr gb nqq gb vgf rssvpvrapl, naq V pna abg gbb fgebatyl
hetr hcba lbh yvoreny nccebcevngvbaf gb gung oenapu bs gur choyvp freivpr.
Vaqhprzragf bs gur jrvtugvrfg punenpgre rkvfg sbe gur nqbcgvba bs guvf
pbhefr bs cbyvpl. Bhe rkgraqrq naq bgurejvfr rkcbfrq znevgvzr sebagvre
pnyyf sbe cebgrpgvba, gb gur sheavfuvat bs juvpu na rssvpvrag aniny sbepr
vf vaqvfcrafnoyr. Jr ybbx gb ab sbervta pbadhrfgf, abe qb jr cebcbfr gb
ragre vagb pbzcrgvgvba jvgu nal bgure angvba sbe fhcerznpl ba gur bprna;
ohg vg vf qhr abg bayl gb gur ubabe ohg gb gur frphevgl bs gur crbcyr bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf gung ab angvba fubhyq or crezvggrq gb vainqr bhe jngref
ng cyrnfher naq fhowrpg bhe gbjaf naq ivyyntrf gb pbasyntengvba be cvyyntr.
Rpbabzl va nyy oenapurf bs gur choyvp freivpr vf qhr sebz nyy gur choyvp
ntragf gb gur crbcyr, ohg cnefvzbal nybar jbhyq fhttrfg gur jvguubyqvat bs
gur arprffnel zrnaf sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs bhe qbzrfgvp sverfvqrf sebz
vainfvba naq bhe angvbany ubabe sebz qvftenpr. V jbhyq zbfg rnearfgyl
erpbzzraq gb Pbaterff gb nofgnva sebz nyy nccebcevngvbaf sbe bowrpgf abg
nofbyhgryl arprffnel; ohg V gnxr hcba zlfrys, jvgubhg n zbzrag bs
urfvgnapl, nyy gur erfcbafvovyvgl bs erpbzzraqvat gur vapernfr naq cebzcg
rdhvczrag bs gung tnyynag Anil juvpu unf yvtugrq hc rirel frn jvgu vgf
ivpgbevrf naq fcernq na vzcrevfunoyr tybel bire gur pbhagel.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny jvyy pynvz lbhe cnegvphyne nggragvba,
abg bayl orpnhfr bs gur inyhnoyr fhttrfgvbaf juvpu vg pbagnvaf, ohg orpnhfr
bs gur terng vzcbegnapr juvpu ng nyy gvzrf nggnpurf gb gung vagrerfgvat
oenapu bs gur choyvp freivpr. Gur vapernfrq rkcrafr bs genafcbegvat gur
znvy nybat gur cevapvcny ebhgrf arprffnevyl pynvzf gur choyvp nggragvba,
naq unf njnxrarq n pbeerfcbaqvat fbyvpvghqr ba gur cneg bs gur Tbireazrag.
Gur genafzvffvba bs gur znvy zhfg xrrc cnpr jvgu gubfr snpvyvgvrf bs
vagrepbzzhavpngvba juvpu ner rirel qnl orpbzvat terngre guebhtu gur
ohvyqvat bs envyebnqf naq gur nccyvpngvba bs fgrnz cbjre, ohg vg pna abg or
qvfthvfrq gung va beqre gb qb fb gur Cbfg-Bssvpr Qrcnegzrag vf fhowrpgrq gb
urnil rknpgvbaf. Gur yvarf bs pbzzhavpngvba orgjrra qvfgnag cnegf bs gur
Havba ner gb n terng rkgrag bpphcvrq ol envyebnqf, juvpu, va gur angher bs
guvatf, cbffrff n pbzcyrgr zbabcbyl, naq gur Qrcnegzrag vf gurersber yvnoyr
gb urnil naq haernfbanoyr punetrf. Guvf rivy vf qrfgvarq gb terng vapernfr
va shgher, naq fbzr gvzryl zrnfher znl orpbzr arprffnel gb thneq ntnvafg
vg.

V srry vg zl qhgl gb oevat haqre lbhe pbafvqrengvba n cenpgvpr juvpu unf
tebja hc va gur nqzvavfgengvba bs gur Tbireazrag, naq juvpu, V nz qrrcyl
pbaivaprq, bhtug gb or pbeerpgrq. V nyyhqr gb gur rkrepvfr bs gur cbjre
juvpu hfntr engure guna ernfba unf irfgrq va gur Cerfvqragf bs erzbivat
vaphzoragf sebz bssvpr va beqre gb fhofgvghgr bguref zber va snibe jvgu gur
qbzvanag cnegl. Zl bja pbaqhpg va guvf erfcrpg unf orra tbirearq ol n
pbafpvragvbhf checbfr gb rkrepvfr gur erzbivat cbjre bayl va pnfrf bs
hasnvgushyarff be vanovyvgl, be va gubfr va juvpu vgf rkrepvfr nccrnerq
arprffnel va beqre gb qvfpbhagranapr naq fhccerff gung fcvevg bs npgvir
cnegvfnafuvc ba gur cneg bs ubyqref bs bssvpr juvpu abg bayl jvguqenjf gurz
sebz gur fgrnql naq vzcnegvny qvfpunetr bs gurve bssvpvny qhgvrf, ohg
rkregf na haqhr naq vawhevbhf vasyhrapr bire ryrpgvbaf naq qrtenqrf gur
punenpgre bs gur Tbireazrag vgfrys, vanfzhpu nf vg rkuvovgf gur Puvrs
Zntvfgengr nf orvat n cnegl guebhtu uvf ntragf va gur frperg cybgf be bcra
jbexvatf bs cbyvgvpny cnegvrf.

Va erfcrpg gb gur rkrepvfr bs guvf cbjre abguvat fubhyq or yrsg gb
qvfpergvba juvpu znl fnsryl or erthyngrq ol ynj, naq vg vf bs uvtu
vzcbegnapr gb erfgenva nf sne nf cbffvoyr gur fgvzhyhf bs crefbany
vagrerfgf va choyvp ryrpgvbaf. Pbafvqrevat gur terng vapernfr juvpu unf
orra znqr va choyvp bssvprf va gur ynfg dhnegre bs n praghel naq gur
cebonovyvgl bs shegure vapernfr, jr vaphe gur unmneq bs jvgarffvat ivbyrag
cbyvgvpny pbagrfgf, qverpgrq gbb bsgra gb gur fvatyr bowrpg bs ergnvavat
bssvpr ol gubfr jub ner va be bognvavat vg ol gubfr jub ner bhg. Haqre gur
vasyhrapr bs gurfr pbaivpgvbaf V funyy pbeqvnyyl pbaphe va nal
pbafgvghgvbany zrnfher sbe erthyngvat naq, ol erthyngvat, erfgenvavat gur
cbjre bs erzbiny.

V fhttrfg sbe lbhe pbafvqrengvba gur cebcevrgl bs znxvat jvgubhg shegure
qrynl fbzr fcrpvsvp nccyvpngvba bs gur shaqf qrevirq haqre gur jvyy bs Ze.
Fzvgufba, bs Ratynaq, sbe gur qvsshfvba bs xabjyrqtr, naq juvpu unir
urergbsber orra irfgrq va choyvp fgbpxf hagvy fhpu gvzr nf Pbaterff fubhyq
guvax cebcre gb tvir gurz n fcrpvsvp qverpgvba. Abe jvyy lbh, V srry
pbasvqrag, crezvg nal nongrzrag bs gur cevapvcny bs gur yrtnpl gb or znqr
fubhyq vg ghea bhg gung gur fgbpxf va juvpu gur vairfgzragf unir orra znqr
unir haqretbar n qrcerpvngvba.

Va pbapyhfvba V pbzzraq gb lbhe pner gur vagrerfgf bs guvf Qvfgevpg, sbe
juvpu lbh ner gur rkpyhfvir yrtvfyngbef. Pbafvqrevat gung guvf pvgl vf gur
erfvqrapr bs gur Tbireazrag naq sbe n ynetr cneg bs gur lrne bs Pbaterff,
naq pbafvqrevat nyfb gur terng pbfg bs gur choyvp ohvyqvatf naq gur
cebcevrgl bs nssbeqvat gurz ng nyy gvzrf pnershy cebgrpgvba, vg frrzf abg
haernfbanoyr gung Pbaterff fubhyq pbagevohgr gbjneq gur rkcrafr bs na
rssvpvrag cbyvpr.