Gb gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf:

Jr unir pbagvahrq ernfba gb rkcerff bhe cebsbhaq tengvghqr gb gur Terng
Perngbe bs Nyy Guvatf sbe ahzoreyrff orarsvgf pbasreerq hcba hf nf n
crbcyr. Oyrffrq jvgu travny frnfbaf, gur uhfonaqzna unf uvf tnearef svyyrq
jvgu nohaqnapr, naq gur arprffnevrf bs yvsr, abg gb fcrnx bs vgf yhkhevrf,
nobhaq va rirel qverpgvba. Juvyr va fbzr bgure angvbaf fgrnql naq
vaqhfgevbhf ynobe pna uneqyl svaq gur zrnaf bs fhofvfgrapr, gur terngrfg
rivy juvpu jr unir gb rapbhagre vf n fhecyhf bs cebqhpgvba orlbaq gur ubzr
qrznaq, juvpu frrxf, naq jvgu qvssvphygl svaqf, n cnegvny znexrg va bgure
ertvbaf. Gur urnygu bs gur pbhagel, jvgu cnegvny rkprcgvbaf, unf sbe gur
cnfg lrne orra jryy cerfreirq, naq haqre gurve serr naq jvfr vafgvghgvbaf
gur Havgrq Fgngrf ner encvqyl nqinapvat gbjneq gur pbafhzzngvba bs gur uvtu
qrfgval juvpu na bireehyvat Cebivqrapr frrzf gb unir znexrq bhg sbe gurz.
Rkrzcg sebz qbzrfgvp pbaihyfvba naq ng crnpr jvgu nyy gur jbeyq, jr ner
yrsg serr gb pbafhyg nf gb gur orfg zrnaf bs frphevat naq nqinapvat gur
unccvarff bs gur crbcyr. Fhpu ner gur pvephzfgnaprf haqre juvpu lbh abj
nffrzoyr va lbhe erfcrpgvir punzoref naq juvpu fubhyq yrnq hf gb havgr va
cenvfr naq gunaxftvivat gb gung terng Orvat jub znqr hf naq jub cerfreirf
hf nf n angvba.

V pbatenghyngr lbh, sryybj-pvgvmraf, ba gur unccl punatr va gur nfcrpg bs
bhe sbervta nssnvef fvapr zl ynfg naahny zrffntr. Pnhfrf bs pbzcynvag ng
gung gvzr rkvfgrq orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Terng Oevgnva juvpu,
nggraqrq ol veevgngvat pvephzfgnaprf, guerngrarq zbfg frevbhfyl gur choyvp
crnpr. Gur qvssvphygl bs nqwhfgvat nzvpnoyl gur dhrfgvbaf ng vffhr orgjrra
gur gjb pbhagevrf jnf va ab fznyy qrterr nhtzragrq ol gur yncfr bs gvzr
fvapr gurl unq gurve bevtva. Gur bcvavbaf ragregnvarq ol gur Rkrphgvir ba
frireny bs gur yrnqvat gbcvpf va qvfchgr jrer senaxyl frg sbegu va gur
zrffntr ng gur bcravat bs lbhe yngr frffvba. Gur nccbvagzrag bs n fcrpvny
zvavfgre ol Terng Oevgnva gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvgu cbjre gb artbgvngr hcba
zbfg bs gur cbvagf bs qvssrerapr vaqvpngrq n qrfver ba ure cneg nzvpnoyl gb
nqwhfg gurz, naq gung zvavfgre jnf zrg ol gur Rkrphgvir va gur fnzr fcvevg
juvpu unq qvpgngrq uvf zvffvba. Gur gerngl pbafrdhrag gurerba univat orra
qhyl engvsvrq ol gur gjb Tbireazragf, n pbcl, gbtrgure jvgu gur
pbeerfcbaqrapr juvpu nppbzcnavrq vg, vf urerjvgu pbzzhavpngrq. V gehfg gung
juvyfg lbh znl frr va vg abguvat bowrpgvbanoyr, vg znl or gur zrnaf bs
cerfreivat sbe na vaqrsvavgr crevbq gur nzvpnoyr eryngvbaf unccvyl rkvfgvat
orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf. Gur dhrfgvba bs crnpr be jne orgjrra gur
Havgrq Fgngrf naq Terng Oevgnva vf n dhrfgvba bs gur qrrcrfg vagrerfg, abg
bayl gb gurzfryirf, ohg gb gur pvivyvmrq jbeyq, fvapr vg vf fpnepryl
cbffvoyr gung n jne pbhyq rkvfg orgjrra gurz jvgubhg raqnatrevat gur crnpr
bs Puevfgraqbz. Gur vzzrqvngr rssrpg bs gur gerngl hcba bhefryirf jvyy or
sryg va gur frphevgl nssbeqrq gb zrepnagvyr ragrecevfr, juvpu, ab ybatre
nccerurafvir bs vagreehcgvba, nqiragherf vgf fcrphyngvbaf va gur zbfg
qvfgnag frnf, naq, servtugrq jvgu gur qvirefvsvrq cebqhpgvbaf bs rirel
ynaq, ergheaf gb oyrff bhe bja. Gurer vf abguvat va gur gerngl juvpu va gur
fyvtugrfg qrterr pbzcebzvgf gur ubabe be qvtavgl bs rvgure angvba. Arkg gb
gur frggyrzrag bs gur obhaqnel yvar, juvpu zhfg nyjnlf or n znggre bs
qvssvphygl orgjrra fgngrf nf orgjrra vaqvivqhnyf, gur dhrfgvba juvpu frrzrq
gb guerngra gur terngrfg rzoneenffzrag jnf gung pbaarpgrq jvgu gur Nsevpna
fynir genqr.

Ol gur gragu negvpyr bs gur gerngl bs Turag vg jnf rkcerffyl qrpynerq
gung--

Jurernf gur genssvp va fynirf vf veerpbapvynoyr jvgu gur cevapvcyrf bs
uhznavgl naq whfgvpr, naq jurernf obgu Uvf Znwrfgl naq gur Havgrq Fgngrf
ner qrfvebhf bs pbagvahvat gurve rssbegf gb cebzbgr vgf ragver nobyvgvba,
vg vf urerol nterrq gung obgu gur pbagenpgvat cnegvrf funyy hfr gurve orfg
raqrnibef gb nppbzcyvfu fb qrfvenoyr na bowrpg.

Va gur rasbeprzrag bs gur ynjf naq gerngl fgvchyngvbaf bs Terng Oevgnva n
cenpgvpr unq guerngrarq gb tebj hc ba gur cneg bs vgf pehvfref bs
fhowrpgvat gb ivfvgngvba fuvcf fnvyvat haqre gur Nzrevpna synt, juvpu,
juvyr vg frevbhfyl vaibyirq bhe znevgvzr evtugf, jbhyq fhowrpg gb irkngvba
n oenapu bs bhe genqr juvpu jnf qnvyl vapernfvat, naq juvpu erdhverq gur
sbfgrevat pner bs Tbireazrag. Naq nygubhtu Ybeq Noreqrra va uvf
pbeerfcbaqrapr jvgu gur Nzrevpna raiblf ng Ybaqba rkcerffyl qvfpynvzrq nyy
evtug gb qrgnva na Nzrevpna fuvc ba gur uvtu frnf, rira vs sbhaq jvgu n
pnetb bs fynirf ba obneq, naq erfgevpgrq gur Oevgvfu cergrafvba gb n zrer
pynvz gb ivfvg naq vadhver, lrg vg pbhyq abg jryy or qvfprearq ol gur
Rkrphgvir bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ubj fhpu ivfvg naq vadhvel pbhyq or znqr
jvgubhg qrgragvba ba gur iblntr naq pbafrdhrag vagreehcgvba gb gur genqr.
Vg jnf ertneqrq nf gur evtug bs frnepu cerfragrq bayl va n arj sbez naq
rkcerffrq va qvssrerag jbeqf, naq V gurersber sryg vg gb or zl qhgl
qvfgvapgyl gb qrpyner va zl naahny zrffntr gb Pbaterff gung ab fhpu
pbaprffvba pbhyq or znqr, naq gung gur Havgrq Fgngrf unq obgu gur jvyy naq
gur novyvgl gb rasbepr gurve bja ynjf naq gb cebgrpg gurve synt sebz orvat
hfrq sbe checbfrf jubyyl sbeovqqra ol gubfr ynjf naq boabkvbhf gb gur zbeny
prafher bs gur jbeyq. Gnxvat gur zrffntr nf uvf yrggre bs vafgehpgvbaf, bhe
gura zvavfgre ng Cnevf sryg uvzfrys erdhverq gb nffhzr gur fnzr tebhaq va n
erzbafgenapr juvpu ur sryg vg gb or uvf qhgl gb cerfrag gb Ze. Thvmbg, naq
guebhtu uvz gb gur Xvat bs gur Serapu, ntnvafg jung unf orra pnyyrq gur
"dhvaghcyr gerngl;" naq uvf pbaqhpg va guvf erfcrpg zrg jvgu gur nccebiny
bs guvf Tbireazrag. Va pybfr pbasbezvgl jvgu gurfr ivrjf gur rvtugu negvpyr
bs gur gerngl jnf senzrq; juvpu cebivqrf "gung rnpu angvba funyy xrrc
nsybng va gur Nsevpna frnf n sbepr abg yrff guna 80 thaf, gb npg frcnengryl
naq ncneg, haqre vafgehpgvbaf sebz gurve erfcrpgvir Tbireazragf, naq sbe
gur rasbeprzrag bs gurve erfcrpgvir ynjf naq boyvtngvbaf." Sebz guvf vg
jvyy or frra gung gur tebhaq nffhzrq va gur zrffntr unf orra shyyl
znvagnvarq ng gur fnzr gvzr gung gur fgvchyngvbaf bs gur gerngl bs Turag
ner gb or pneevrq bhg va tbbq snvgu ol gur gjb pbhagevrf, naq gung nyy
cergrafr vf erzbirq sbe vagresrerapr jvgu bhe pbzzrepr sbe nal checbfr
jungrire ol n sbervta tbireazrag. Juvyr, gurersber, gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir
orra fgnaqvat hc sbe gur serrqbz bs gur frnf, gurl unir abg gubhtug cebcre
gb znxr gung n cergrkg sbe nibvqvat n shysvyyzrag bs gurve gerngl
fgvchyngvbaf be n tebhaq sbe tvivat pbhagranapr gb n genqr ercebongrq ol
bhe ynjf. N fvzvyne neenatrzrag ol gur bgure terng cbjref pbhyq abg snvy gb
fjrrc sebz gur bprna gur fynir genqr jvgubhg gur vagrecbyngvba bs nal arj
cevapvcyr vagb gur znevgvzr pbqr. Jr znl or crezvggrq gb ubcr gung gur
rknzcyr guhf frg jvyy or sbyybjrq ol fbzr vs abg nyy bs gurz. Jr gurerol
nyfb nssbeq fhvgnoyr cebgrpgvba gb gur snve genqre va gubfr frnf, guhf
shysvyyvat ng gur fnzr gvzr gur qvpgngrf bs n fbhaq cbyvpl naq pbzcylvat
jvgu gur pynvzf bs whfgvpr naq uhznavgl.

Vg jbhyq unir sheavfurq nqqvgvbany pnhfr sbe pbatenghyngvba vs gur gerngl
pbhyq unir rzoenprq nyy fhowrpgf pnyphyngrq va shgher gb yrnq gb n
zvfhaqrefgnaqvat orgjrra gur gjb Tbireazragf. Gur Greevgbel bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf pbzzbayl pnyyrq gur Bertba Greevgbel, ylvat ba gur Cnpvsvp Bprna
abegu bs gur sbegl-frpbaq qrterr bs yngvghqr, gb n cbegvba bs juvpu Terng
Oevgnva ynlf pynvz, ortvaf gb nggenpg gur nggragvba bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf,
naq gur gvqr bs cbchyngvba juvpu unf erpynvzrq jung jnf fb yngryl na
haoebxra jvyqrearff va zber pbagvthbhf ertvbaf vf cercnevat gb sybj bire
gubfr infg qvfgevpgf juvpu fgergpu sebz gur Ebpxl Zbhagnvaf gb gur Cnpvsvp
Bprna. Va nqinapr bs gur npdhverzrag bs vaqvivqhny evtugf gb gurfr ynaqf,
fbhaq cbyvpl qvpgngrf gung rirel rssbeg fubhyq or erfbegrq gb ol gur gjb
Tbireazragf gb frggyr gurve erfcrpgvir pynvzf. Vg orpnzr znavsrfg ng na
rneyl ubhe bs gur yngr artbgvngvbaf gung nal nggrzcg sbe gur gvzr orvat
fngvfsnpgbevyl gb qrgrezvar gubfr evtugf jbhyq yrnq gb n cebgenpgrq
qvfphffvba, juvpu zvtug rzoenpr va vgf snvyher bgure zber cerffvat znggref,
naq gur Rkrphgvir qvq abg ertneq vg nf cebcre gb jnvir nyy gur nqinagntrf
bs na ubabenoyr nqwhfgzrag bs bgure qvssvphygvrf bs terng zntavghqr naq
vzcbegnapr orpnhfr guvf, abg fb vzzrqvngryl cerffvat, fgbbq va gur jnl.
Nygubhtu gur qvssvphygl ersreerq gb znl abg sbe frireny lrnef gb pbzr
vaibyir gur crnpr bs gur gjb pbhagevrf, lrg V funyy abg qrynl gb hetr ba
Terng Oevgnva gur vzcbegnapr bs vgf rneyl frggyrzrag. Abe jvyy bgure
znggref bs pbzzrepvny vzcbegnapr gb gur gjb pbhagevrf or bireybbxrq, naq V
unir tbbq ernfba gb oryvrir gung vg jvyy pbzcbeg jvgu gur cbyvpl bs
Ratynaq, nf vg qbrf jvgu gung bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gb frvmr hcba guvf
zbzrag, jura zbfg bs gur pnhfrf bs veevgngvba unir cnffrq njnl, gb przrag
gur crnpr naq nzvgl bs gur gjb pbhagevrf ol jvfryl erzbivat nyy tebhaqf bs
cebonoyr shgher pbyyvfvba.

Jvgu gur bgure cbjref bs Rhebcr bhe eryngvbaf pbagvahr ba gur zbfg nzvpnoyr
sbbgvat. Gerngvrf abj rkvfgvat jvgu gurz fubhyq or evtvqyl bofreirq, naq
rirel bccbeghavgl pbzcngvoyr jvgu gur vagrerfgf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf fubhyq
or frvmrq hcba gb raynetr gur onfvf bs pbzzrepvny vagrepbhefr. Crnpr jvgu
nyy gur jbeyq vf gur gehr sbhaqngvba bs bhe cbyvpl, juvpu pna bayl or
eraqrerq creznarag ol gur cenpgvpr bs rdhny naq vzcnegvny whfgvpr gb nyy.
Bhe terng qrfver fubhyq or gb ragre bayl vagb gung evinyel juvpu ybbxf gb
gur trareny tbbq va gur phygvingvba bs gur fpvraprf, gur raynetrzrag bs gur
svryq sbe gur rkrepvfr bs gur zrpunavpny negf, naq gur fcernq bs
pbzzrepr--gung terng pvivyvmre--gb rirel ynaq naq frn. Pnershyyl nofgnvavat
sebz vagresrerapr va nyy dhrfgvbaf rkpyhfviryl ersreevat gurzfryirf gb gur
cbyvgvpny vagrerfgf bs Rhebcr, jr znl or crezvggrq gb ubcr na rdhny
rkrzcgvba sebz gur vagresrerapr bs Rhebcrna Tbireazragf va jung eryngrf gb
gur Fgngrf bs gur Nzrevpna pbagvarag.

Ba gur 23q bs Ncevy ynfg gur pbzzvffvbaref ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
haqre gur pbairagvba jvgu gur Zrkvpna Erchoyvp bs gur 11gu bs Ncevy, 1839,
znqr gb gur cebcre Qrcnegzrag n svany ercbeg va eryngvba gb gur cebprrqvatf
bs gur pbzzvffvba. Sebz guvf vg nccrnef gung gur gbgny nzbhag njneqrq gb
gur pynvznagf ol gur pbzzvffvbaref naq gur hzcver nccbvagrq haqre gung
pbairagvba jnf $2,026,079.68. Gur neovgre univat pbafvqrerq gung uvf
shapgvbaf jrer erdhverq ol gur pbairagvba gb grezvangr ng gur fnzr gvzr
jvgu gubfr bs gur pbzzvffvbaref, erghearq gb gur obneq, haqrpvqrq sbe jnag
bs gvzr, pynvzf juvpu unq orra nyybjrq ol gur Nzrevpna pbzzvffvbaref gb gur
nzbhag bs $928,620.88. Bgure pynvzf, va juvpu gur nzbhag fbhtug gb or
erpbirerq jnf $3,336,837.05, jrer fhozvggrq gb gur obneq gbb yngr sbe vgf
pbafvqrengvba. Gur zvavfgre bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ng Zrkvpb unf orra qhyl
nhgubevmrq gb znxr qrznaq sbe cnlzrag bs gur njneqf nppbeqvat gb gur grezf
bs gur pbairagvba naq gur cebivfvbaf bs gur npg bs Pbaterff bs gur 12gu bs
Whar, 1840. Ur unf nyfb orra vafgehpgrq gb pbzzhavpngr gb gung Tbireazrag
gur rkcrpgngvbaf bs gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va eryngvba gb
gubfr pynvzf juvpu jrer abg qvfcbfrq bs nppbeqvat gb gur cebivfvbaf bs gur
pbairagvba, naq nyy bguref bs pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf ntnvafg gur
Zrkvpna Tbireazrag. Ur unf nyfb orra sheavfurq jvgu bgure vafgehpgvbaf, gb
or sbyybjrq ol uvz va pnfr gur Tbireazrag bs Zrkvpb fubhyq abg svaq vgfrys
va n pbaqvgvba gb znxr cerfrag cnlzrag bs gur nzbhag bs gur njneqf va
fcrpvr be vgf rdhvinyrag.

V nz unccl gb or noyr gb fnl gung vasbezngvba juvpu vf rfgrrzrq snibenoyr
obgu gb n whfg fngvfsnpgvba bs gur njneqf naq n ernfbanoyr cebivfvba sbe
bgure pynvzf unf orra erpragyl erprvirq sebz Ze. Gubzcfba, gur zvavfgre bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, jub unf cebzcgyl naq rssvpvragyl rkrphgrq gur
vafgehpgvbaf bs uvf Tbireazrag va ertneq gb guvf vzcbegnag fhowrpg.

Gur pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jub nppbzcnavrq gur yngr Grkna rkcrqvgvba
gb Fnagn Sr, naq jub jrer jebatshyyl gnxra naq uryq nf cevfbaref bs jne va
Zrkvpb, unir nyy orra yvorengrq.

N pbeerfcbaqrapr unf gnxra cynpr orgjrra gur Qrcnegzrag bs Fgngr naq gur
Zrkvpna zvavfgre bs sbervta nssnvef hcba gur pbzcynvag bs Zrkvpb gung
pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jrer crezvggrq gb tvir nvq gb gur vaunovgnagf
bs Grknf va gur jne rkvfgvat orgjrra ure naq gung Erchoyvp. Pbcvrf bs guvf
pbeerfcbaqrapr ner urerjvgu pbzzhavpngrq gb Pbaterff, gbtrgure jvgu pbcvrf
bs yrggref ba gur fnzr fhowrpg nqqerffrq gb gur qvcybzngvp pbecf ng Zrkvpb
ol gur Nzrevpna zvavfgre naq gur Zrkvpna frpergnel bs fgngr.

Zrkvpb unf gubhtug cebcre gb erpvcebpngr gur zvffvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf
gb gung Tbireazrag ol npperqvgvat gb guvf n zvavfgre bs gur fnzr enax nf
gung bs gur ercerfragngvir bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va Zrkvpb. Sebz gur
pvephzfgnaprf pbaarpgrq jvgu uvf zvffvba snibenoyr erfhygf ner nagvpvcngrq
sebz vg. Vg vf fb boivbhfyl sbe gur vagrerfg bs obgu pbhagevrf nf arvtuobef
naq sevraqf gung nyy whfg pnhfrf bs zhghny qvffngvfsnpgvba fubhyq or
erzbirq gung vg vf gb or ubcrq arvgure jvyy bzvg be qrynl gur rzcyblzrag bs
nal cenpgvpnoyr naq ubabenoyr zrnaf gb nppbzcyvfu gung raq.

Gur nssnvef craqvat orgjrra guvf Tbireazrag naq frireny bguref bs gur
Fgngrf bs guvf urzvfcurer sbezreyl haqre gur qbzvavba bs Fcnva unir ntnva
jvguva gur cnfg lrne orra zngrevnyyl bofgehpgrq ol gur zvyvgnel eribyhgvbaf
naq pbasyvpgf va gubfr pbhagevrf.

Gur engvsvpngvbaf bs gur gerngl orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq gur Erchoyvp
bs Rphnqbe bs gur 13gu bs Whar, 1839, unir orra rkpunatrq, naq gung
vafgehzrag unf orra qhyl cebzhytngrq ba gur cneg bs guvf Tbireazrag. Pbcvrf
ner abj pbzzhavpngrq gb Pbaterff jvgu n ivrj gb ranoyr gung obql gb znxr
fhpu punatrf va gur ynjf nccyvpnoyr gb bhe vagrepbhefr jvgu gung Erchoyvp
nf znl or qrrzrq erdhvfvgr.

Cebivfvba unf orra znqr ol gur Tbireazrag bs Puvyr sbe gur cnlzrag bs gur
pynvz ba nppbhag bs gur vyyrtny qrgragvba bs gur oevt Jneevbe ng Pbdhvzob
va 1820. Guvf Tbireazrag unf ernfba gb rkcrpg gung bgure pynvzf bs bhe
pvgvmraf ntnvafg Puvyr jvyy or unfgrarq gb n svany naq fngvfsnpgbel pybfr.

Gur Rzcver bs Oenmvy unf abg orra nygbtrgure rkrzcg sebz gubfr pbaihyfvbaf
juvpu fb pbafgnagyl nssyvpg gur arvtuobevat erchoyvpf. Qvfgheonaprf juvpu
erpragyl oebxr bhg ner, ubjrire, abj haqrefgbbq gb or dhvrgrq. Ohg gurfr
bppheeraprf, ol guerngravat gur fgnovyvgl bs gur tbireazragf, be ol pnhfvat
vaprffnag naq ivbyrag punatrf va gurz be va gur crefbaf jub nqzvavfgre
gurz, graq terngyl gb ergneq cebivfvbaf sbe n whfg vaqrzavgl sbe ybffrf naq
vawhevrf fhssrerq ol vaqvivqhny fhowrpgf be pvgvmraf bs bgure fgngrf. Gur
Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jvyy srry vg gb or vgf qhgl, ubjrire, gb
pbafrag gb ab qrynl abg hanibvqnoyr va znxvat fngvfsnpgvba sbe jebatf naq
vawhevrf fhfgnvarq ol vgf bja pvgvmraf. Znal lrnef univat va fbzr pnfrf
ryncfrq, n qrpvfvir naq rssrpghny pbhefr bs cebprrqvat jvyy or qrznaqrq bs
gur erfcrpgvir tbireazragf ntnvafg jubz pynvzf unir orra cersreerq.

Gur irkngvbhf, unenffvat, naq rkcrafvir jne juvpu fb ybat cerinvyrq jvgu
gur Vaqvna gevorf vaunovgvat gur cravafhyn bs Sybevqn unf unccvyl orra
grezvangrq, jurerol bhe Nezl unf orra eryvrirq sebz n freivpr bs gur zbfg
qvfnterrnoyr punenpgre naq gur Gernfhel sebz n ynetr rkcraqvgher. Fbzr
pnfhny bhgoernxf znl bpphe, fhpu nf ner vapvqrag gb gur pybfr cebkvzvgl bs
obeqre frggyref naq gur Vaqvnaf, ohg gurfr, nf va nyy bgure pnfrf, znl or
yrsg gb gur pner bs gur ybpny nhgubevgvrf, nvqrq jura bppnfvba znl erdhver
ol gur sbeprf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. N fhssvpvrag ahzore bs gebbcf jvyy or
znvagnvarq va Sybevqn fb ybat nf gur erzbgrfg nccerurafvbaf bs qnatre funyy
rkvfg, lrg gurve qhgvrf jvyy or yvzvgrq engure gb gur tneevfbavat bs gur
arprffnel cbfgf guna gb gur znvagranapr bs npgvir ubfgvyvgvrf. Vg vf gb or
ubcrq gung n greevgbel fb ybat ergneqrq va vgf tebjgu jvyy abj fcrrqvyl
erpbire sebz gur rivyf vapvqrag gb n cebgenpgrq jne, rkuvovgvat va gur
vapernfrq nzbhag bs vgf evpu cebqhpgvbaf gehr rivqraprf bs ergheavat jrnygu
naq cebfcrevgl. Ol gur cenpgvpr bs evtvq whfgvpr gbjneq gur ahzrebhf Vaqvna
gevorf erfvqvat jvguva bhe greevgbevny yvzvgf naq gur rkrepvfr bs n
cneragny ivtvynapr bire gurve vagrerfgf, cebgrpgvat gurz ntnvafg senhq naq
vagehfvba, naq ng gur fnzr gvzr hfvat rirel cebcre rkcrqvrag gb vagebqhpr
nzbat gurz gur negf bs pvivyvmrq yvsr, jr znl sbaqyl ubcr abg bayl gb jrna
gurz sebz gurve ybir bs jne, ohg gb vafcver gurz jvgu n ybir sbe crnpr naq
nyy vgf nibpngvbaf. Jvgu frireny bs gur gevorf terng cebterff va pvivyvmvat
gurz unf nyernql orra znqr. Gur fpubbyznfgre naq gur zvffvbanel ner sbhaq
fvqr ol fvqr, naq gur erzanagf bs jung jrer bapr ahzrebhf naq cbjreshy
angvbaf znl lrg or cerfreirq nf gur ohvyqref hc bs n arj anzr sbe
gurzfryirf naq gurve cbfgrevgl.

Gur onynapr va gur Gernfhel ba gur 1fg bs Wnahnel, 1842, rkpyhfvir bs gur
nzbhag qrcbfvgrq jvgu gur Fgngrf, gehfg shaqf, naq vaqrzavgvrf, jnf
$230,483.68. Gur erprvcgf vagb gur Gernfhel qhevat gur guerr svefg dhnegref
bs gur cerfrag lrne sebz nyy fbheprf nzbhag gb $26,616,593.78, bs juvpu
zber guna sbhegrra zvyyvbaf jrer erprvirq sebz phfgbzf naq nobhg bar
zvyyvba sebz gur choyvp ynaqf. Gur erprvcgf sbe gur sbhegu dhnegre ner
rfgvzngrq ng arneyl rvtug zvyyvbaf, bs juvpu sbhe zvyyvbaf ner rkcrpgrq
sebz phfgbzf naq guerr zvyyvbaf naq n unys sebz ybnaf naq Gernfhel abgrf.
Gur rkcraqvgherf bs gur svefg guerr dhnegref bs gur cerfrag lrne rkprrq
gjragl-fvk zvyyvbaf, naq gubfr rfgvzngrq sbe gur sbhegu dhnegre nzbhag gb
nobhg rvtug zvyyvbaf; naq vg vf nagvpvcngrq gurer jvyy or n qrsvpvrapl bs
unys n zvyyvba ba gur 1fg bs Wnahnel arkg, ohg gung gur nzbhag bs
bhgfgnaqvat jneenagf (rfgvzngrq ng $800,000) jvyy yrnir na npghny onynapr
bs nobhg $224,000 va gur Gernfhel. Nzbat gur rkcraqvgherf bs guvf lrne ner
zber guna rvtug zvyyvbaf sbe gur choyvp qrog naq nobhg $600,000 ba nppbhag
bs gur qvfgevohgvba gb gur Fgngrf bs gur cebprrqf bs fnyrf bs gur choyvp
ynaqf.

Gur cerfrag gnevss bs qhgvrf jnf fbzrjung unfgvyl naq uheevrqyl cnffrq arne
gur pybfr bs gur yngr frffvba bs Pbaterff. Gung vg fubhyq unir qrsrpgf pna
gurersber or fhecevfvat gb ab bar. Gb erzrql fhpu qrsrpgf nf znl or sbhaq
gb rkvfg va nal bs vgf ahzrebhf cebivfvbaf jvyy abg snvy gb pynvz lbhe
frevbhf nggragvba. Vg znl jryy zrevg vadhvel jurgure gur rknpgvba bs nyy
qhgvrf va pnfu qbrf abg pnyy sbe gur vagebqhpgvba bs n flfgrz juvpu unf
cebirq uvtuyl orarsvpvny va pbhagevrf jurer vg unf orra nqbcgrq. V ersre gb
gur jnerubhfvat flfgrz. Gur svefg naq zbfg cebzvarag rssrpg juvpu vg jbhyq
cebqhpr jbhyq or gb cebgrpg gur znexrg nyvxr ntnvafg erqhaqnag be qrsvpvrag
fhccyvrf bs sbervta snoevpf, obgu bs juvpu va gur ybat eha ner vawhevbhf nf
jryy gb gur znahsnpghere nf gur vzcbegre. Gur dhnagvgl bs tbbqf va fgber
orvat ng nyy gvzrf ernqvyl xabja, vg jbhyq ranoyr gur vzcbegre jvgu na
nccebnpu gb npphenpl gb nfpregnva gur npghny jnagf bs gur znexrg naq gb
erthyngr uvzfrys nppbeqvatyl. Vs, ubjrire, ur fubhyq snyy vagb reebe ol
vzcbegvat na rkprff nobir gur choyvp jnagf, ur pbhyq ernqvyl pbeerpg vgf
rivyf ol ninvyvat uvzfrys bs gur orarsvgf naq nqinagntrf bs gur flfgrz guhf
rfgnoyvfurq. Va gur fgberubhfr gur tbbqf vzcbegrq jbhyq njnvg gur qrznaq bs
gur znexrg naq gurve vffhrf jbhyq or tbirearq ol gur svkrq cevapvcyrf bs
qrznaq naq fhccyl. Guhf na nccebkvzngvba jbhyq or znqr gb n fgrnqvarff naq
havsbezvgl bs cevpr, juvpu vs nggnvanoyr jbhyq pbaqhpr gb gur qrpvqrq
nqinagntr bs zrepnagvyr naq zrpunavpny bcrengvbaf.

Gur nccerurafvba znl or jryy ragregnvarq gung jvgubhg fbzrguvat gb
nzryvbengr gur evtbe bs pnfu cnlzragf gur ragver vzcbeg genqr znl snyy vagb
gur unaqf bs n srj jrnygul pncvgnyvfgf va guvf pbhagel naq va Rhebcr. Gur
fznyy vzcbegre, jub erdhverf nyy gur zbarl ur pna envfr sbe vairfgzragf
noebnq, naq jub pna ohg vyy nssbeq gb cnl gur ybjrfg qhgl, jbhyq unir gb
fhoqhpg va nqinapr n cbegvba bs uvf shaqf va beqre gb cnl gur qhgvrf, naq
jbhyq ybfr gur vagrerfg hcba gur nzbhag guhf cnvq sbe nyy gur gvzr gur
tbbqf zvtug erznva hafbyq, juvpu zvtug nofbeo uvf cebsvgf. Gur evpu
pncvgnyvfg, noebnq nf jryy nf ng ubzr, jbhyq guhf cbffrff nsgre n fubeg
gvzr na nyzbfg rkpyhfvir zbabcbyl bs gur vzcbeg genqr, naq ynjf qrfvtarq
sbe gur orarsvg bs nyy jbhyq guhf bcrengr sbe gur orarsvg bs n srj--n
erfhyg jubyyl hapbatravny jvgu gur fcvevg bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf naq
nagverchoyvpna va nyy vgf graqrapvrf. Gur jnerubhfvat flfgrz jbhyq ranoyr
gur vzcbegre gb jngpu gur znexrg naq gb fryrpg uvf bja gvzr sbe bssrevat
uvf tbbqf sbe fnyr. N cebsvgnoyr cbegvba bs gur pneelvat genqr va negvpyrf
ragrerq sbe gur orarsvg bs qenjonpx zhfg nyfb or zbfg frevbhfyl nssrpgrq
jvgubhg gur nqbcgvba bs fbzr rkcrqvrag gb eryvrir gur pnfu flfgrz. Gur
jnerubhfvat flfgrz jbhyq nssbeq gung eryvrs, fvapr gur pneevre jbhyq unir n
fnsr erpbhefr gb gur choyvp fgberubhfrf naq zvtug jvgubhg nqinapvat gur
qhgl erfuvc jvguva fbzr ernfbanoyr crevbq gb sbervta cbegf. N shegure
rssrpg bs gur zrnfher jbhyq or gb fhcrefrqr gur flfgrz bs qenjonpxf,
gurerol rssrpghnyyl cebgrpgvat gur Tbireazrag ntnvafg senhq, nf gur evtug
bs qroragher jbhyq abg nggnpu gb tbbqf nsgre gurve jvguqenjny sebz gur
choyvp fgberf.

Va erivfvat gur rkvfgvat gnevss bs qhgvrf, fubhyq lbh qrrz vg cebcre gb qb
fb ng lbhe cerfrag frffvba, V pna bayl ercrng gur fhttrfgvbaf naq
erpbzzraqngvbaf juvpu hcba frireny bppnfvbaf V unir urergbsber sryg vg gb
or zl qhgl gb bssre gb Pbaterff. Gur terng cevznel naq pbagebyyvat vagrerfg
bs gur Nzrevpna crbcyr vf havba--havba abg bayl va gur zrer sbezf bs
tbireazrag, sbezf juvpu znl or oebxra, ohg havba ebhaqrq va na nggnpuzrag
bs Fgngrf naq vaqvivqhnyf sbe rnpu bgure. Guvf havba va fragvzrag naq
srryvat pna bayl or cerfreirq ol gur nqbcgvba bs gung pbhefr bs cbyvpl
juvpu, arvgure tvivat rkpyhfvir orarsvgf gb fbzr abe vzcbfvat haarprffnel
oheguraf hcba bguref, funyy pbafhyg gur vagrerfgf bs nyy ol chefhvat n
pbhefr bs zbqrengvba naq gurerol frrxvat gb unezbavmr choyvp bcvavba, naq
pnhfvat gur crbcyr rireljurer gb srry naq gb xabj gung gur Tbireazrag vf
pnershy bs gur vagrerfgf bs nyy nyvxr. Abe vf gurer nal fhowrpg va ertneq
gb juvpu zbqrengvba, pbaarpgrq jvgu n jvfr qvfpevzvangvba, vf zber
arprffnel guna va gur vzcbfvgvba bs qhgvrf ba vzcbegf. Jurgure ersrerapr or
unq gb erirahr, gur cevznel bowrpg va gur vzcbfvgvba bs gnkrf, be gb gur
vapvqragf juvpu arprffnevyl sybj sebz gurve vzcbfvgvba, guvf vf ragveryl
gehr. Rkgenintnag qhgvrf qrsrng gurve raq naq bowrpg, abg bayl ol rkpvgvat
va gur choyvp zvaq na ubfgvyvgl gb gur znahsnpghevat vagrerfgf, ohg ol
vaqhpvat n flfgrz bs fzhttyvat ba na rkgrafvir fpnyr naq gur cenpgvpr bs
rirel znaare bs senhq hcba gur erirahr, juvpu gur hgzbfg ivtvynapr bs
Tbireazrag pna abg rssrpghnyyl fhccerff. Na bccbfvgr pbhefr bs cbyvpl jbhyq
or nggraqrq ol erfhygf rffragvnyyl qvssrerag, bs juvpu rirel vagrerfg bs
fbpvrgl, naq abar zber guna gubfr bs gur znahsnpghere, jbhyq ernc vzcbegnag
nqinagntrf. Nzbat gur zbfg fgevxvat bs vgf orarsvgf jbhyq or gung qrevirq
sebz gur trareny npdhvrfprapr bs gur pbhagel va vgf fhccbeg naq gur
pbafrdhrag creznarapl naq fgnovyvgl juvpu jbhyq or tvira gb nyy gur
bcrengvbaf bs vaqhfgel. Vg pna abg or gbb bsgra ercrngrq gung ab flfgrz bs
yrtvfyngvba pna or jvfr juvpu vf syhpghngvat naq hapregnva. Ab vagrerfg pna
guevir haqre vg. Gur cehqrag pncvgnyvfg jvyy arire nqiragher uvf pncvgny va
znahsnpghevat rfgnoyvfuzragf, be va nal bgure yrnqvat chefhvg bs yvsr, vs
gurer rkvfgf n fgngr bs hapregnvagl nf gb jurgure gur Tbireazrag jvyy
ercrny gb-zbeebj jung vg unf ranpgrq gb-qnl. Svgshy cebsvgf, ubjrire uvtu,
vs guerngrarq jvgu n ehvabhf erqhpgvba ol n inpvyyngvat cbyvpl ba gur cneg
bs Tbireazrag, jvyy fpnepryl grzcg uvz gb gehfg gur zbarl juvpu ur unf
npdhverq ol n yvsr bs ynobe hcba gur hapregnva nqiragher. V gurersber, va
gur fcvevg bs pbapvyvngvba, naq vasyhraprq ol ab bgure qrfver guna gb
erfphr gur terng vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel sebz gur ibegrk bs cbyvgvpny
pbagragvba, naq va gur qvfpunetr bs gur uvtu naq fbyrza qhgvrf bs gur cynpr
juvpu V abj bpphcl, erpbzzraq zbqrengr qhgvrf, vzcbfrq jvgu n jvfr
qvfpevzvangvba nf gb gurve frireny bowrpgf, nf orvat abg bayl zbfg yvxryl
gb or qhenoyr, ohg zbfg nqinagntrbhf gb rirel vagrerfg bs fbpvrgl.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Jne Qrcnegzrag rkuvovgf n irel shyy naq
fngvfsnpgbel nppbhag bs gur inevbhf naq vzcbegnag vagrerfgf pbzzvggrq gb
gur punetr bs gung bssvpre. Vg vf cnegvphyneyl tengvslvat gb svaq gung gur
rkcraqvgherf sbe gur zvyvgnel freivpr ner terngyl erqhprq va nzbhag--gung n
fgevpg flfgrz bs rpbabzl unf orra vagebqhprq vagb gur freivpr naq gur
nohfrf bs cnfg lrnef terngyl ersbezrq. Gur sbegvsvpngvbaf ba bhe znevgvzr
sebagvre unir orra cebfrphgrq jvgu zhpu ivtbe, naq ng znal cbvagf bhe
qrsrafrf ner va n irel pbafvqrenoyr fgngr bs sbejneqarff. Gur fhttrfgvbaf
va ersrerapr gb gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs zrnaf bs pbzzhavpngvba jvgu bhe
greevgbevrf ba gur Cnpvsvp naq gb gur fheirlf fb rffragvny gb n xabjyrqtr
bs gur erfbheprf bs gur vagrezrqvngr pbhagel ner ragvgyrq gb gur zbfg
snibenoyr pbafvqrengvba. Juvyr V jbhyq cebcbfr abguvat vapbafvfgrag jvgu
sevraqyl artbgvngvbaf gb frggyr gur rkgrag bs bhe pynvzf va gung ertvba,
lrg n cehqrag sberpnfg cbvagf bhg gur arprffvgl bs fhpu zrnfherf nf znl
ranoyr hf gb znvagnva bhe evtugf. Gur neenatrzragf znqr sbe cerfreivat bhe
arhgeny eryngvbaf ba gur obhaqnel orgjrra hf naq Grknf naq xrrcvat va purpx
gur Vaqvnaf va gung dhnegre jvyy or znvagnvarq fb ybat nf pvephzfgnaprf znl
erdhver. Sbe frireny lrnef natel pbagragvbaf unir tebja bhg bs gur
qvfcbfvgvba qverpgrq ol ynj gb or znqr bs gur zvareny ynaqf uryq ol gur
Tbireazrag va frireny bs gur Fgngrf. Gur Tbireazrag vf pbafgvghgrq gur
ynaqybeq, naq gur Pvgvmraf bs gur Fgngrf jurerva yvr gur ynaqf ner vgf
granagf. Gur eryngvba vf na hajvfr bar, naq vg jbhyq or zhpu zber pbaqhpvir
bs gur choyvp vagrerfg gung n fnyr bs gur ynaqf fubhyq or znqr guna gung
gurl fubhyq erznva va gurve cerfrag pbaqvgvba. Gur fhccyl bs gur ber jbhyq
or zber nohaqnagyl naq pregnvayl sheavfurq jura gb or qenja sebz gur
ragrecevfr naq gur vaqhfgel bs gur cebcevrgbe guna haqre gur cerfrag
flfgrz.

Gur erpbzzraqngvbaf bs gur Frpergnel va ertneq gb gur vzcebirzragf bs gur
Jrfgrea jngref naq pregnva cebzvarag uneobef ba gur Ynxrf zrevg, naq V
qbhog abg jvyy erprvir, lbhe frevbhf nggragvba. Gur terng vzcbegnapr bs
gurfr fhowrpgf gb gur cebfcrevgl bs gur rkgrafvir ertvba ersreerq gb naq
gur frphevgl bs gur jubyr pbhagel va gvzr bs jne pna abg rfpncr
bofreingvba. Gur ybffrf bs yvsr naq cebcregl juvpu naahnyyl bpphe va gur
anivtngvba bs gur Zvffvffvccv nybar orpnhfr bs gur qnatrebhf bofgehpgvbaf
va gur evire znxr n ybhq qrznaq hcba Pbaterff sbe gur nqbcgvba bs rssvpvrag
zrnfherf sbe gurve erzbiny.

Gur ercbeg bs gur Frpergnel bs gur Anil jvyy oevat lbh npdhnvagrq jvgu gung
vzcbegnag oenapu bs gur choyvp qrsrafrf. Pbafvqrevat gur nyernql infg naq
qnvyl vapernfvat pbzzrepr bs gur pbhagel, ncneg sebz gur rkcbfher gb
ubfgvyr vaebnq bs na rkgraqrq frnobneq, nyy gung eryngrf gb gur Anil vf
pnyphyngrq gb rkpvgr cnegvphyne nggragvba. Jungrire graqf gb nqq gb vgf
rssvpvrapl jvgubhg ragnvyvat haarprffnel punetrf hcba gur Gernfhel vf jryy
jbegul bs lbhe frevbhf pbafvqrengvba. Vg jvyy or frra gung juvyr na
nccebcevngvba rkprrqvat ol zber guna n zvyyvba gur nccebcevngvbaf bs gur
pheerag lrne vf nfxrq ol gur Frpergnel, lrg gung va guvf fhz vf cebcbfrq gb
or vapyhqrq $400,000 sbe gur chepunfr bs pybguvat, juvpu jura bapr rkcraqrq
jvyy or naahnyyl ervzohefrq ol gur fnyr bs gur pybgurf, naq jvyy guhf
pbafgvghgr n crecrghny shaq jvgubhg nal arj nccebcevngvba gb gur fnzr
bowrpg. Gb guvf znl nyfb or nqqrq $50,000 nfxrq gb pbire gur neernentrf bs
cnfg lrnef naq $250,000 va beqre gb znvagnva n pbzcrgrag fdhnqeba ba gur
pbnfg bs Nsevpn; nyy bs juvpu jura qrqhpgrq jvyy erqhpr gur rkcraqvgherf
arneyl jvguva gur yvzvgf bs gubfr bs gur pheerag lrne. Juvyr, ubjrire, gur
rkcraqvgherf jvyy guhf erznva irel arneyl gur fnzr nf bs gur nagrprqrag
lrne, vg vf cebcbfrq gb nqq terngyl gb gur bcrengvbaf bs gur znevar, naq va
yvrh bs bayl 25 fuvcf va pbzzvffvba naq ohg yvggyr va gur jnl bs ohvyqvat,
gb xrrc jvgu gur fnzr rkcraqvgher 41 irffryf nsybng naq gb ohvyq 12 fuvcf
bs n fznyy pynff.

N fgevpg flfgrz bs nppbhagnovyvgl vf rfgnoyvfurq naq terng cnvaf ner gnxra
gb vafher vaqhfgel, svqryvgl, naq rpbabzl va rirel qrcnegzrag bs qhgl.
Rkcrevzragf unir orra vafgvghgrq gb grfg gur dhnyvgl bs inevbhf zngrevnyf,
cnegvphyneyl pbccre, veba, naq pbny, fb nf gb cerirag senhq naq
vzcbfvgvba.

Vg jvyy nccrne ol gur ercbeg bs gur Cbfgznfgre-Trareny gung gur terng cbvag
juvpu sbe frireny lrnef unf orra fb zhpu qrfverq unf qhevat gur pheerag
lrne orra shyyl nppbzcyvfurq. Gur rkcraqvgherf bs gur Qrcnegzrag sbe
pheerag freivpr unir orra oebhtug jvguva vgf vapbzr jvgubhg yrffravat vgf
trareny hfrshyarff. Gurer unf orra na vapernfr bs erirahr rdhny gb $166,000
sbe gur lrne 1842 bire gung bs 1841, jvgubhg, nf vg vf oryvrirq, nal
nqqvgvba univat orra znqr gb gur ahzore bs yrggref naq arjfcncref
genafzvggrq guebhtu gur znvyf. Gur cbfg-bssvpr ynjf unir orra ubarfgyl
nqzvavfgrerq, naq svqryvgl unf orra bofreirq va nppbhagvat sbe naq cnlvat
bire ol gur fhobeqvangrf bs gur Qrcnegzrag gur zbarlf juvpu unir orra
erprvirq. Sbe gur qrgnvyf bs gur freivpr V ersre lbh gb gur ercbeg.

V synggre zlfrys gung gur rkuvovgvba guhf znqr bs gur pbaqvgvba bs gur
choyvp nqzvavfgengvba jvyy freir gb pbaivapr lbh gung rirel cebcre
nggragvba unf orra cnvq gb gur vagrerfgf bs gur pbhagel ol gubfr jub unir
orra pnyyrq gb gur urnqf bs gur qvssrerag Qrcnegzragf. Gur erqhpgvba va gur
naahny rkcraqvgherf bs gur Tbireazrag nyernql nppbzcyvfurq sheavfurf n fher
rivqrapr gung rpbabzl va gur nccyvpngvba bs gur choyvp zbarlf vf ertneqrq
nf n cnenzbhag qhgl.

Ng crnpr jvgu nyy gur jbeyq, gur crefbany yvoregl bs gur pvgvmra fnperqyl
znvagnvarq naq uvf evtugf frpherq haqre cbyvgvpny vafgvghgvbaf qrevivat nyy
gurve nhgubevgl sebz gur qverpg fnapgvba bs gur crbcyr, jvgu n fbvy sregvyr
nyzbfg orlbaq rknzcyr naq n pbhagel oyrffrq jvgu rirel qvirefvgl bs pyvzngr
naq cebqhpgvba, jung erznvaf gb or qbar va beqre gb nqinapr gur unccvarff
naq cebfcrevgl bs fhpu n crbcyr? Haqre beqvanel pvephzfgnaprf guvf vadhvel
pbhyq ernqvyl or nafjrerq. Gur orfg gung cebonoyl pbhyq or qbar sbe n
crbcyr vaunovgvat fhpu n pbhagel jbhyq or gb sbegvsl gurve crnpr naq
frphevgl va gur cebfrphgvba bs gurve inevbhf chefhvgf ol thneqvat gurz
ntnvafg vainfvba sebz jvgubhg naq ivbyrapr sebz jvguva. Gur erfg sbe gur
terngre cneg zvtug or yrsg gb gurve bja raretl naq ragrecevfr. Gur puvrs
rzoneenffzragf juvpu ng gur zbzrag rkuvovg gurzfryirf unir nevfra sebz
birenpgvba, naq gur zbfg qvssvphyg gnfx juvpu erznvaf gb or nppbzcyvfurq vf
gung bs pbeerpgvat naq birepbzvat vgf rssrpgf. Orgjrra gur lrnef 1833 naq
1838 nqqvgvbaf jrer znqr gb onax pncvgny naq onax vffhrf, va gur sbez bs
abgrf qrfvtarq sbe pvephyngvba, gb na rkgrag rabezbhfyl terng. Gur dhrfgvba
frrzrq gb or abg ubj gur orfg pheerapl pbhyq or cebivqrq, ohg va jung
znaare gur terngrfg nzbhag bs onax cncre pbhyq or chg va pvephyngvba. Guhf
n infg nzbhag bs jung jnf pnyyrq zbarl--fvapr sbe gur gvzr orvat vg
nafjrerq gur checbfrf bs zbarl--jnf guebja hcba gur pbhagel, na birevffhr
juvpu jnf nggraqrq, nf n arprffnel pbafrdhrapr, ol na rkgenintnag vapernfr
bs gur cevprf bs nyy negvpyrf bs cebcregl, gur fcernq bs n fcrphyngvir
znavn nyy bire gur pbhagel, naq unf svanyyl raqrq va n trareny vaqrogrqarff
ba gur cneg bs Fgngrf naq vaqvivqhnyf, gur cebfgengvba bs choyvp naq
cevingr perqvg, n qrcerpvngvba va gur znexrg inyhr bs erny naq crefbany
rfgngr, naq unf yrsg ynetr qvfgevpgf bs pbhagel nyzbfg ragveryl jvgubhg nal
pvephyngvat zrqvhz. Va ivrj bs gur snpg gung va 1830 gur jubyr onax-abgr
pvephyngvba jvguva gur Havgrq Fgngrf nzbhagrq gb ohg $61,323,898, nppbeqvat
gb gur Gernfhel fgngrzragf, naq gung na nqqvgvba unq orra znqr gurergb bs
gur rabezbhf fhz bs $88,000,000 va frira lrnef (gur pvephyngvba ba gur 1fg
bs Wnahnel, 1837, orvat fgngrq ng $149,185,890), nvqrq ol gur terng
snpvyvgvrf nssbeqrq va bognvavat ybnaf sebz Rhebcrna pncvgnyvfgf, jub jrer
frvmrq jvgu gur fnzr fcrphyngvir znavn juvpu cerinvyrq va gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, naq gur ynetr vzcbegngvbaf bs shaqf sebz noebnq--gur erfhyg bs
fgbpx fnyrf naq ybnaf--ab bar pna or fhecevfrq ng gur nccnerag ohg
hafhofgnagvny fgngr bs cebfcrevgl juvpu rireljurer cerinvyrq bire gur ynaq;
naq nf yvggyr pnhfr bs fhecevfr fubhyq or sryg ng gur cerfrag cebfgengvba
bs rirelguvat naq gur ehva juvpu unf orsnyyra fb znal bs bhe
sryybj-pvgvmraf va gur fhqqra jvguqenjny sebz pvephyngvba bs fb ynetr na
nzbhag bs onax vffhrf fvapr 1837--rkprrqvat, nf vf oryvrirq, gur nzbhag
nqqrq gb gur cncre pheerapl sbe n fvzvyne crevbq nagrprqrag gb 1837--vg
prnfrf gb or n znggre bs nfgbavfuzrag gung fhpu rkgrafvir fuvcjerpx fubhyq
unir orra znqr bs cevingr sbegharf be gung qvssvphygvrf fubhyq rkvfg va
zrrgvat gurve ratntrzragf ba gur cneg bs gur qrogbe Fgngrf; ncneg sebz
juvpu, vs gurer or gnxra vagb nppbhag gur vzzrafr ybffrf fhfgnvarq va gur
qvfubabe bs ahzrebhf onaxf, vg vf yrff n znggre bs fhecevfr gung vafbyirapl
fubhyq unir ivfvgrq znal bs bhe sryybj-pvgvmraf guna gung fb znal fubhyq
unir rfpncrq gur oyvtugvat vasyhraprf bs gur gvzrf.

Va gur fbyrza pbaivpgvba bs gurfr gehguf naq jvgu na neqrag qrfver gb zrrg
gur cerffvat arprffvgvrf bs gur pbhagel, V sryg vg gb or zl qhgl gb pnhfr
gb or fhozvggrq gb lbh ng gur pbzzraprzrag bs lbhe ynfg frffvba gur cyna bs
na rkpurdhre, gur jubyr cbjre naq qhgl bs znvagnvavat juvpu va chevgl naq
ivtbe jnf gb or rkrepvfrq ol gur ercerfragngvirf bs gur crbcyr naq gur
Fgngrf, naq gurersber iveghnyyl ol gur crbcyr gurzfryirf. Vg jnf cebcbfrq
gb cynpr vg haqre gur pbageby naq qverpgvba bs n Gernfhel obneq gb pbafvfg
bs guerr pbzzvffvbaref, jubfr qhgl vg fubhyq or gb frr gung gur ynj bs vgf
perngvba jnf snvgushyyl rkrphgrq naq gung gur terng raq bs fhccylvat n
cncre zrqvhz bs rkpunatr ng nyy gvzrf pbairegvoyr vagb tbyq naq fvyire
fubhyq or nggnvarq. Gur obneq guhf pbafgvghgrq jnf tvira nf zhpu creznarapl
nf pbhyq or vzcnegrq gb vg jvgubhg raqnatrevat gur cebcre funer bs
erfcbafvovyvgl juvpu fubhyq nggnpu gb nyy choyvp ntragf. Va beqre gb vafher
nyy gur nqinagntrf bs n jryy-zngherq rkcrevrapr, gur pbzzvffvbaref jrer gb
ubyq gurve bssvprf sbe gur erfcrpgvir crevbqf bs gjb, sbhe, naq fvk lrnef,
gurerol frphevat ng nyy gvzrf va gur znantrzrag bs gur rkpurdhre gur
freivprf bs gjb zra bs rkcrevrapr; naq gb cynpr gurz va n pbaqvgvba gb
rkrepvfr cresrpg vaqrcraqrapr bs zvaq naq npgvba vg jnf cebivqrq gung gurve
erzbiny fubhyq bayl gnxr cynpr sbe npghny vapncnpvgl be vasvqryvgl gb gur
gehfg, naq gb or sbyybjrq ol gur Cerfvqrag jvgu na rkcbfvgvba bs gur pnhfrf
bs fhpu erzbiny, fubhyq vg bpphe. Vg jnf cebcbfrq gb rfgnoyvfu fhobeqvangr
obneqf va rnpu bs gur Fgngrf, haqre gur fnzr erfgevpgvbaf naq yvzvgngvbaf
bs gur cbjre bs erzbiny, juvpu, jvgu gur prageny obneq, fubhyq erprvir,
fnsryl xrrc, naq qvfohefr gur choyvp zbarlf. Naq va beqre gb sheavfu n
fbhaq cncre zrqvhz bs rkpunatr gur rkpurdhre fubhyq ergnva bs gur erirahrf
bs gur Tbireazrag n fhz abg gb rkprrq $5,000,000 va fcrpvr, gb or frg ncneg
nf erdhverq ol vgf bcrengvbaf, naq gb cnl gur choyvp perqvgbe ng uvf bja
bcgvba rvgure va fcrpvr be Gernfhel abgrf bs qrabzvangvbaf abg yrff guna $5
abe rkprrqvat $100, juvpu abgrf fubhyq or erqrrzrq ng gur frireny cynprf bs
vffhr, naq gb or erprvinoyr ng nyy gvzrf naq rireljurer va cnlzrag bs
Tbireazrag qhrf, jvgu n erfgenvag hcba fhpu vffhr bs ovyyf gung gur fnzr
fubhyq abg rkprrq gur znkvzhz bs $15,000,000. Va beqre gb thneq ntnvafg nyy
gur unmneqf vapvqrag gb syhpghngvbaf va genqr, gur Frpergnel bs gur
Gernfhel jnf vairfgrq jvgu nhgubevgl gb vffhr $5,000,000 bs Tbireazrag
fgbpx, fubhyq gur fnzr ng nal gvzr or ertneqrq nf arprffnel va beqre gb
cynpr orlbaq unmneq gur cebzcg erqrzcgvba bs gur ovyyf juvpu zvtug or
guebja vagb pvephyngvba; guhf va snpg znxvat gur vffhr bs $15,000,000 bs
rkpurdhre ovyyf erfg fhofgnagvnyyl ba $10,000,000, naq xrrcvat va
pvephyngvba arire zber guna bar naq bar-unys qbyynef sbe rirel qbyyne va
fcrpvr. Jura gb guvf vg vf nqqrq gung gur ovyyf ner abg bayl rireljurer
erprvinoyr va Tbireazrag qhrf, ohg gung gur Tbireazrag vgfrys jbhyq or
obhaq sbe gurve hygvzngr erqrzcgvba, ab engvbany qbhog pna rkvfg gung gur
cncre juvpu gur rkpurdhre jbhyq sheavfu jbhyq ernqvyl ragre vagb trareny
pvephyngvba naq or znvagnvarq ng nyy gvzrf ng be nobir cne jvgu tbyq naq
fvyire, gurerol ernyvmvat gur terng jnag bs gur ntr naq shysvyyvat gur
jvfurf bs gur crbcyr. Va beqre gb ervzohefr gur Tbireazrag gur rkcrafrf bs
gur cyna, vg jnf cebcbfrq gb vairfg gur rkpurdhre jvgu gur yvzvgrq
nhgubevgl gb qrny va ovyyf bs rkpunatr (hayrff cebuvovgrq ol gur Fgngr va
juvpu na ntrapl zvtug or fvghngrq) univat bayl guvegl qnlf gb eha naq
erfgvat ba n snve naq oban svqr onfvf. Gur yrtvfyngvir jvyy ba guvf cbvag
zvtug or fb cynvayl naabhaprq nf gb nibvq nyy cergrkg sbe cnegvnyvgl be
snibevgvfz. Vg jnf shegurezber cebcbfrq gb vairfg guvf Gernfhel ntrag jvgu
nhgubevgl gb erprvir ba qrcbfvg gb n yvzvgrq nzbhag gur fcrpvr shaqf bs
vaqvivqhnyf naq gb tenag pregvsvpngrf gurersbe gb or erqrrzrq ba
cerfragngvba, haqre gur vqrn, juvpu vf oryvrirq gb or jryy sbhaqrq, gung
fhpu pregvsvpngrf jbhyq pbzr va nvq bs gur rkpurdhre ovyyf va fhccylvat n
fnsr naq nzcyr cncre pvephyngvba. Be vs va cynpr bs gur pbagrzcyngrq
qrnyvatf va rkpunatr gur rkpurdhre fubhyq or nhgubevmrq abg bayl gb
rkpunatr vgf ovyyf sbe npghny qrcbfvgf bs fcrpvr, ohg, sbe fcrpvr be vgf
rdhvinyrag, gb fryy qensgf, punetvat gurersbe n fznyy ohg ernfbanoyr
cerzvhz, V pna abg qbhog ohg gung gur orarsvgf bs gur ynj jbhyq or fcrrqvyl
znavsrfgrq va gur eriviny bs gur perqvg, genqr, naq ohfvarff bs gur jubyr
pbhagel. Ragregnvavat guvf bcvavba, vg orpbzrf zl qhgl gb hetr vgf nqbcgvba
hcba Pbaterff ol ersrerapr gb gur fgebatrfg pbafvqrengvbaf bs gur choyvp
vagrerfgf, jvgu fhpu nygrengvbaf va vgf qrgnvyf nf Pbaterff znl va vgf
jvfqbz frr svg gb znxr.

V nz jryy njner gung guvf cebcbfrq nygrengvba naq nzraqzrag bs gur ynjf
rfgnoyvfuvat gur Gernfhel Qrcnegzrag unf rapbhagrerq inevbhf bowrpgvbaf,
naq gung nzbat bguref vg unf orra cebpynvzrq n Tbireazrag onax bs srneshy
naq qnatrebhf vzcbeg. Vg vf cebcbfrq gb pbasre hcba vg ab rkgenbeqvanel
cbjre. Vg checbegf gb qb ab zber guna cnl gur qrogf bs gur Tbireazrag jvgu
gur erqrrznoyr cncre bs gur Tbireazrag, va juvpu erfcrpg vg nppbzcyvfurf
cerpvfryl jung gur Gernfhel qbrf qnvyl ng guvf gvzr va vffhvat gb gur
choyvp perqvgbef gur Gernfhel abgrf juvpu haqre ynj vg vf nhgubevmrq gb
vffhr. Vg unf ab erfrzoynapr gb na beqvanel onax, nf vg sheavfurf ab
cebsvgf gb cevingr fgbpxubyqref naq yraqf ab pncvgny gb vaqvivqhnyf. Vs vg
or bowrpgrq gb nf n Tbireazrag onax naq gur bowrpgvba or ninvynoyr, gura
fubhyq nyy gur ynjf va eryngvba gb gur Gernfhel or ercrnyrq naq gur
pncnpvgl bs gur Tbireazrag gb pbyyrpg jung vf qhr gb vg be cnl jung vg bjrf
or noebtngrq.

Guvf vf gur puvrs checbfr bs gur cebcbfrq rkpurdhre, naq fheryl vs va gur
nppbzcyvfuzrag bs n checbfr fb rffragvny vg nssbeqf n fbhaq pvephyngvat
zrqvhz gb gur pbhagel naq snpvyvgvrf gb genqr vg fubhyq or ertneqrq nf ab
fyvtug erpbzzraqngvba bs vg gb choyvp pbafvqrengvba. Cebcreyl thneqrq ol
gur cebivfvbaf bs ynj, vg pna eha vagb ab qnatrebhf rivy, abe pna nal nohfr
nevfr haqre vg ohg fhpu nf gur Yrtvfyngher vgfrys jvyy or nafjrenoyr sbe vs
vg or gbyrengrq, fvapr vg vf ohg gur perngher bs gur ynj naq vf fhfprcgvoyr
ng nyy gvzrf bs zbqvsvpngvba, nzraqzrag, be ercrny ng gur cyrnfher bs
Pbaterff. V xabj gung vg unf orra bowrpgrq gung gur flfgrz jbhyq or yvnoyr
gb or nohfrq ol gur Yrtvfyngher, ol jubz nybar vg pbhyq or nohfrq, va gur
cnegl pbasyvpgf bs gur qnl; gung fhpu nohfr jbhyq znavsrfg vgfrys va n
punatr bs gur ynj juvpu jbhyq nhgubevmr na rkprffvir vffhr bs cncre sbe gur
checbfr bs vasyngvat cevprf naq jvaavat cbchyne snibe. Gb gung vg znl or
nafjrerq gung gur nfpevcgvba bs fhpu n zbgvir gb Pbaterff vf nygbtrgure
tenghvgbhf naq vanqzvffvoyr. Gur gurbel bs bhe vafgvghgvbaf jbhyq yrnq hf
gb n qvssrerag pbapyhfvba. Ohg n cresrpg frphevgl ntnvafg n cebprrqvat fb
erpxyrff jbhyq or sbhaq gb rkvfg va gur irel angher bs guvatf. Gur
cbyvgvpny cnegl juvpu fubhyq or fb oyvaq gb gur gehr vagrerfgf bs gur
pbhagel nf gb erfbeg gb fhpu na rkcrqvrag jbhyq varivgnoyl zrrg jvgu svany
bireguebj va gur snpg gung gur zbzrag gur cncre prnfrq gb or pbairegvoyr
vagb fcrpvr be bgurejvfr cebzcgyl erqrrzrq vg jbhyq orpbzr jbeguyrff, naq
jbhyq va gur raq qvfubabe gur Tbireazrag, vaibyir gur crbcyr va ehva naq
fhpu cbyvgvpny cnegl va ubcryrff qvftenpr. Ng gur fnzr gvzr, fhpu n ivrj
vaibyirf gur hggre vzcbffvovyvgl bs sheavfuvat nal pheerapl bgure guna gung
bs gur cerpvbhf zrgnyf; sbe vs gur Tbireazrag vgfrys pna abg sbertb gur
grzcgngvba bs rkprffvir cncre vffhrf jung eryvnapr pna or cynprq va
pbecbengvbaf hcba jubz gur grzcgngvbaf bs vaqvivqhny nttenaqvmrzrag jbhyq
zbfg fgebatyl bcrengr? Gur crbcyr jbhyq unir gb oynzr abar ohg gurzfryirf
sbe nal vawhel gung zvtug nevfr sebz n pbhefr fb erpxyrff, fvapr gurve
ntragf jbhyq or gur jebatqbref naq gurl gur cnffvir fcrpgngbef.

Gurer pna or ohg guerr xvaqf bs choyvp pheerapl--svefg, tbyq naq fvyire;
frpbaq, gur cncre bs Fgngr vafgvghgvbaf; be, guveq, n ercerfragngvir bs gur
cerpvbhf zrgnyf cebivqrq ol gur Trareny Tbireazrag be haqre vgf nhgubevgl.
Gur fhogernfhel flfgrz erwrpgrq gur ynfg va nal sbez, naq nf vg jnf
oryvrirq gung ab eryvnapr pbhyq or cynprq ba gur vffhrf bs ybpny
vafgvghgvbaf sbe gur checbfrf bs trareny pvephyngvba vg arprffnevyl naq
hanibvqnoyl nqbcgrq fcrpvr nf gur rkpyhfvir pheerapl sbe vgf bja hfr; naq
guvf zhfg rire or gur pnfr hayrff bar bs gur bgure xvaqf or hfrq. Gur
pubvpr va gur cerfrag fgngr bs choyvp fragvzrag yvrf orgjrra na rkpyhfvir
fcrpvr pheerapl ba gur bar unaq naq Tbireazrag vffhrf bs fbzr xvaq ba gur
bgure. Gung gurfr vffhrf pna abg or znqr ol n punegrerq vafgvghgvba vf
fhccbfrq gb or pbapyhfviryl frggyrq. Gurl zhfg or znqr, gura, qverpgyl ol
Tbireazrag ntragf. Sbe frireny lrnef cnfg gurl unir orra guhf znqr va gur
sbez bs Gernfhel abgrf, naq unir nafjrerq n inyhnoyr checbfr. Gurve
hfrshyarff unf orra yvzvgrq ol gurve orvat genafvrag naq grzcbenel; gurve
prnfvat gb orne vagrerfg ng tvira crevbqf arprffnevyl pnhfrf gurve fcrrql
erghea naq guhf erfgevpgf gurve enatr bs pvephyngvba, naq orvat hfrq bayl
va gur qvfohefrzragf bs Tbireazrag gurl pna abg ernpu gubfr cbvagf jurer
gurl ner zbfg erdhverq. Ol eraqrevat gurve hfr creznarag, gb gur zbqrengr
rkgrag nyernql zragvbarq, ol bssrevat ab vaqhprzrag sbe gurve erghea naq ol
rkpunatvat gurz sbe pbva naq bgure inyhrf, gurl jvyy pbafgvghgr gb n
pregnva rkgrag gur trareny pheerapl fb zhpu arrqrq gb znvagnva gur vagreany
genqr bs gur pbhagel. Naq guvf vf gur rkpurdhre cyna fb sne nf vg znl
bcrengr va sheavfuvat n pheerapl.

V pna abg sbertb gur bppnfvba gb hetr vgf vzcbegnapr gb gur perqvg bs gur
Tbireazrag va n svanapvny cbvag bs ivrj. Gur terng arprffvgl bs erfbegvat
gb rirel cebcre naq orpbzvat rkcrqvrag va beqre gb cynpr gur Gernfhel ba n
sbbgvat bs gur uvturfg erfcrpgnovyvgl vf ragveryl boivbhf. Gur perqvg bs
gur Tbireazrag znl or ertneqrq nf gur irel fbhy bs gur Tbireazrag vgfrys--n
cevapvcyr bs ivgnyvgl jvgubhg juvpu nyy vgf zbirzragf ner ynathvq naq nyy
vgf bcrengvbaf rzoneenffrq. Va guvf fcvevg gur Rkrphgvir sryg vgfrys obhaq
ol gur zbfg vzcrengvir frafr bs qhgl gb fhozvg gb Pbaterff ng vgf ynfg
frffvba gur cebcevrgl bs znxvat n fcrpvsvp cyrqtr bs gur ynaq shaq nf gur
onfvf sbe gur artbgvngvba bs gur ybnaf nhgubevmrq gb or pbagenpgrq. V gura
gubhtug gung fhpu na nccyvpngvba bs gur choyvp qbznva jbhyq jvgubhg qbhog
unir cynprq ng gur pbzznaq bs gur Tbireazrag nzcyr shaqf gb eryvrir gur
Gernfhel sebz gur grzcbenel rzoneenffzragf haqre juvpu vg ynoberq. Nzrevpna
perqvg unf fhssrerq n pbafvqrenoyr fubpx va Rhebcr sebz gur ynetr
vaqrogrqarff bs gur Fgngrf naq gur grzcbenel vanovyvgl bs fbzr bs gurz gb
zrrg gur vagrerfg ba gurve qrogf. Gur hggre naq qvfnfgebhf cebfgengvba bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf Onax bs Craaflyinavn unq pbagevohgrq ynetryl gb vapernfr
gur fragvzrag bs qvfgehfg ol ernfba bs gur ybff naq ehva fhfgnvarq ol gur
ubyqref bs vgf fgbpx, n ynetr cbegvba bs jubz jrer sbervtaref naq znal bs
jubz jrer nyvxr vtabenag bs bhe cbyvgvpny betnavmngvba naq bs bhe npghny
erfcbafvovyvgvrf.

Vg jnf gur nakvbhf qrfver bs gur Rkrphgvir gung va gur rssbeg gb artbgvngr
gur ybna noebnq gur Nzrevpna artbgvngbe zvtug or noyr gb cbvag gur zbarl
yraqre gb gur shaq zbegtntrq sbe gur erqrzcgvba bs gur cevapvcny naq
vagrerfg bs nal ybna ur zvtug pbagenpg, naq gurerol ivaqvpngr gur
Tbireazrag sebz nyy fhfcvpvba bs onq snvgu be vanovyvgl gb zrrg vgf
ratntrzragf. Pbaterff qvssrerq sebz gur Rkrphgvir va guvf ivrj bs gur
fhowrpg. Vg orpnzr, arireguryrff, gur qhgl bs gur Rkrphgvir gb erfbeg gb
rirel rkcrqvrag va vgf cbjre gb qb fb.

Nsgre n snvyher va gur Nzrevpna znexrg n pvgvmra bs uvtu punenpgre naq
gnyrag jnf frag gb Rhebcr, jvgu ab orggre fhpprff; naq guhf gur zbegvslvat
fcrpgnpyr unf orra cerfragrq bs gur vanovyvgl bs guvf Tbireazrag gb bognva
n ybna fb fznyy nf abg va gur jubyr gb nzbhag gb zber guna bar-sbhegu bs
vgf beqvanel naahny vapbzr, ng n gvzr jura gur Tbireazragf bs Rhebcr,
nygubhtu vaibyirq va qrog naq jvgu gurve fhowrpgf urnivyl ohegurarq jvgu
gnkngvba, ernqvyl bognvarq ybnaf bs nal nzbhag ng n terngyl erqhprq engr bs
vagrerfg. Vg jbhyq or hacebsvgnoyr gb ybbx shegure vagb guvf nabznybhf
fgngr bs guvatf, ohg V pna abg pbapyhqr jvgubhg nqqvat gung sbe n
Tbireazrag juvpu unf cnvq bss vgf qrogf bs gjb jnef jvgu gur ynetrfg
znevgvzr cbjre bs Rhebcr, naq abj bjvat n qrog juvpu vf nyzbfg arkg gb
abguvat jura pbzcnerq jvgu vgf obhaqyrff erfbheprf--n Tbireazrag gur
fgebatrfg va gur jbeyq, orpnhfr rznangvat sebz gur cbchyne jvyy naq svezyl
ebbgrq va gur nssrpgvbaf bs n terng naq serr crbcyr, naq jubfr svqryvgl gb
vgf ratntrzragf unf arire orra dhrfgvbarq--sbe fhpu n Tbireazrag gb unir
graqrerq gb gur pncvgnyvfgf bs bgure pbhagevrf na bccbeghavgl sbe n fznyy
vairfgzrag va vgf fgbpx, naq lrg gb unir snvyrq, vzcyvrf rvgure gur zbfg
hasbhaqrq qvfgehfg va vgf tbbq snvgu be n checbfr gb bognva juvpu gur
pbhefr chefhrq vf gur zbfg sngny juvpu pbhyq unir orra nqbcgrq. Vg unf abj
orpbzr boivbhf gb nyy zra gung gur Tbireazrag zhfg ybbx gb vgf bja zrnaf
sbe fhccylvat vgf jnagf, naq vg vf pbafbyvat gb xabj gung gurfr zrnaf ner
nygbtrgure nqrdhngr sbe gur bowrpg. Gur rkpurdhre, vs nqbcgrq, jvyy terngyl
nvq va oevatvat nobhg guvf erfhyg. Hcba jung V ertneq nf n jryy-ebhaqrq
fhccbfvgvba gung vgf ovyyf jbhyq or ernqvyl fbhtug sbe ol gur choyvp
perqvgbef naq gung gur vffhr jbhyq va n fubeg gvzr ernpu gur znkvzhz bs
$15,000,000, vg vf boivbhf gung $10,000,000 jbhyq gurerol or nqqrq gb gur
ninvynoyr zrnaf bs gur Gernfhel jvgubhg pbfg be punetr. Abe pna V snvy gb
hetr gur terng naq orarsvpvny rssrpgf juvpu jbhyq or cebqhprq va nvq bs nyy
gur npgvir chefhvgf bs yvsr. Vgf rssrpgf hcba gur fbyirag Fgngr onaxf,
juvyr vg jbhyq sbepr vagb yvdhvqngvba gubfr bs na bccbfvgr punenpgre
guebhtu vgf jrrxyl frggyrzragf, jbhyq or uvtuyl orarsvpvny; naq jvgu gur
nqinagntrf bs n fbhaq pheerapl gur erfgbengvba bs pbasvqrapr naq perqvg
jbhyq sbyybj jvgu n ahzrebhf genva bs oyrffvatf. Zl pbaivpgvbaf ner zbfg
fgebat gung gurfr orarsvgf jbhyq sybj sebz gur nqbcgvba bs guvf zrnfher;
ohg vs gur erfhyg fubhyq or nqirefr gurer vf guvf frphevgl va pbaarpgvba
jvgu vg--gung gur ynj perngvat vg znl or ercrnyrq ng gur cyrnfher bs gur
Yrtvfyngher jvgubhg gur fyvtugrfg vzcyvpngvba bs vgf tbbq snvgu.

V erpbzzraq gb Pbaterff gb gnxr vagb pbafvqrengvba gur cebcevrgl bs
ervzohefvat n svar vzcbfrq ba Trareny Wnpxfba ng Arj Beyrnaf ng gur gvzr bs
gur nggnpx naq qrsrafr bs gung pvgl, naq cnvq ol uvz. Jvgubhg qrfvtavat nal
ersyrpgvba ba gur whqvpvny gevohany juvpu vzcbfrq gur svar, gur erzvffvba
ng guvf qnl znl or ertneqrq nf abg hawhfg be varkcrqvrag. Gur ibvpr bs gur
pvivy nhgubevgl jnf urneq nzvqfg gur tyvggre bs nezf naq borlrq ol gubfr
jub uryq gur fjbeq, gurerol tvivat nqqvgvbany yhfgre gb n zrzbenoyr
zvyvgnel npuvrirzrag. Vs gur ynjf jrer bssraqrq, gurve znwrfgl jnf shyyl
ivaqvpngrq; naq nygubhtu gur cranygl vapheerq naq cnvq vf jbegul bs yvggyr
ertneq va n crphavnel cbvag bs ivrj, vg pna uneqyl or qbhogrq gung vg jbhyq
or tengvslvat gb gur jne-jbea irgrena, abj va ergverzrag naq va gur jvagre
bs uvf qnlf, gb or eryvrirq sebz gur pvephzfgnaprf va juvpu gung whqtzrag
cynprq uvz. Gurer ner pnfrf va juvpu choyvp shapgvbanevrf znl or pnyyrq ba
gb jrvtu gur choyvp vagrerfg ntnvafg gurve bja crefbany unmneqf, naq vs gur
pvivy ynj or ivbyngrq sebz cenvfrjbegul zbgvirf be na bireehyvat frafr bs
choyvp qnatre naq choyvp arprffvgl chavfuzrag znl jryy or erfgenvarq jvguva
gung yvzvg juvpu nffregf naq znvagnvaf gur nhgubevgl bs gur ynj naq gur
fhowrpgvba bs gur zvyvgnel gb gur pvivy cbjre. Gur qrsrafr bs Arj Beyrnaf,
juvyr vg fnirq n pvgl sebz gur unaqf bs gur rarzl, cynprq gur anzr bs
Trareny Wnpxfba nzbat gubfr bs gur terngrfg pncgnvaf bs gur ntr naq
vyyhfgengrq bar bs gur oevtugrfg cntrf bs bhe uvfgbel. Abj gung gur pnhfrf
bs rkpvgrzrag rkvfgvat ng gur gvzr unir prnfrq gb bcrengr, vg vf oryvrirq
gung gur erzvffvba bs guvf svar naq jungrire bs tengvsvpngvba gung
erzvffvba zvtug pnhfr gur rzvarag zna jub vapheerq naq cnvq vg jbhyq or va
nppbeqnapr jvgu gur trareny srryvat naq jvfurf bs gur Nzrevpna crbcyr.

V unir guhf, sryybj-pvgvmraf, npdhvggrq zlfrys bs zl qhgl haqre gur
Pbafgvghgvba ol ynlvat orsber lbh nf fhppvapgyl nf V unir orra noyr gur
fgngr bs gur Havba naq ol vaivgvat lbhe nggragvba gb zrnfherf bs zhpu
vzcbegnapr gb gur pbhagel. Gur rkrphgvir jvyy zbfg mrnybhfyl havgr vgf
rssbegf jvgu gubfr bs gur yrtvfyngvir qrcnegzrag va gur nppbzcyvfuzrag bs
nyy gung vf erdhverq gb eryvrir gur jnagf bs n pbzzba pbafgvghrapl be
ryringr gur qrfgvavrf bs n orybirq pbhagel.