Kf kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj:

Nv yrmv tfekzelvu trljv wfi vogivjjzex fli xirkzkluv kf kyv Jlgivdv Ilcvi
fw kyv Lezmvijv wfi kyv svevwzkj reu scvjjzexj nyzty fli tflekip, leuvi Yzj
bzeu gifmzuvetv, yrj veafpvu ulizex kyv grjk pvri. Efknzkyjkreuzex kyv
votzkzex jtvevj kyiflxy nyzty nv yrmv grjjvu, efkyzex yrj fttliivu kf
uzjklis kyv xvevirc gvrtv fi kf uvirexv kyv yridfep fw fli gfczkztrc
jpjkvd. Kyv xivrk dfirc jgvtkrtcv yrj svve voyzszkvu fw r erkzfe
rggifozdrkzex ze eldsvi kf 20,000,000 gvfgcv yrmzex gviwfidvu kyv yzxy reu
zdgfikrek wletkzfe fw vcvtkzex kyvzi Tyzvw Drxzjkirkv wfi kyv kvid fw wfli
pvrij nzkyflk kyv tfddzjjzfe fw rep rtkj fw mzfcvetv fi kyv drezwvjkrkzfe
fw r jgzizk fw zejlsfiuzerkzfe kf kyv crnj. Kyv xivrk reu zevjkzdrscv izxyk
fw jlwwirxv yrj svve vovitzjvu sp rcc nyf nviv zemvjkvu nzky zk leuvi kyv
crnj fw kyv uzwwvivek Jkrkvj ze r jgzizk uztkrkvu rcfev sp r uvjziv, ze kyv
jvcvtkzfe fw kyv rxvek, kf rumretv kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv tflekip reu kf
gcrtv svpfeu avfgriup kyv zejkzklkzfej leuvi nyzty zk zj fli yrggzevjj kf
czmv. Kyrk kyv uvvgvjk zekvivjk yrj svve drezwvjkvu sp rcc fli tflekipdve
ze kyv ivjlck fw kyv vcvtkzfe zj efk cvjj kilv kyre yzxycp tivuzkrscv kf
kyvd. Mrjk dlckzkluvj yrmv rjjvdscvu wifd kzdv kf kzdv rk mrizflj gcrtvj
wfi kyv gligfjv fw tremrjjzex kyv dvizkj reu givkvejzfej fw kyfjv nyf nviv
givjvekvu wfi kyvzi jlwwirxvj, slk ef ridvu jfcuzvip yrj svve evtvjjrip kf
ivjkirze nzkyze gifgvi czdzkj kyv gfglcri qvrc fi kf givmvek mzfcvek
flksivrbj. R gizetzgcv dlty dfiv tfekifcczex nrj wfleu ze kyv cfmv fw fiuvi
reu fsvuzvetv kf kyv crnj, nyzty, nzky dviv zeuzmzulrc votvgkzfej,
vmvipnyviv gfjjvjjvj kyv Rdviztre dzeu, reu tfekifcj nzky re zewclvetv wri
dfiv gfnviwlc kyre yfjkj fw ridvu dve. Nv tre efk unvcc lgfe kyzj gztkliv
nzkyflk ivtfxezqzex ze zk kyrk uvvg reu uvmfkvu rkkrtydvek fe kyv grik fw
kyv gvfgcv kf kyv zejkzklkzfej leuvi nyzty nv czmv nyzty giftcrzdj kyvzi
gvigvklzkp. Kyv xivrk fsavtkzfe nyzty yrj rcnrpj givmrzcvu rxrzejk kyv
vcvtkzfe sp kyv gvfgcv fw kyvzi tyzvw vovtlkzmv fwwztvi yrj svve kyv
rggivyvejzfe fw kldlckj reu uzjfiuvij nyzty dzxyk zemfcmv ze ilze kyv
vekziv Xfmviedvek. R jvtlizkp rxrzejk kyzj zj wfleu efk fecp ze kyv wrtk
svwfiv rccluvu kf, kifk ze kyv ruuzkzferc wrtk kyrk nv czmv leuvi r
Tfewvuvirtp vdsirtzex rcivrup knvekp-jzo Jkrkvj, ef fev fw nyzty yrj gfnvi
kf tfekifc kyv vcvtkzfe. Kyv gfglcri mfkv ze vrty Jkrkv zj krbve rk kyv
kzdv rggfzekvu sp kyv crnj, reu jlty mfkv zj reefletvu sp kyv vcvtkfirc
tfccvxv nzkyflk ivwvivetv kf kyv uvtzjzfe fw fkyvi Jkrkvj. Kyv izxyk fw
jlwwirxv reu kyv dfuv fw tfeultkzex kyv vcvtkzfe riv ivxlcrkvu sp kyv crnj
fw vrty Jkrkv, reu kyv vcvtkzfe zj uzjkzetkcp wvuvirkzmv ze rcc zkj
gifdzevek wvrklivj. Kylj zk zj kyrk, leczbv nyrk dzxyk sv kyv ivjlckj leuvi
r tfejfczurkvu jpjkvd, izfkflj giftvvuzexj, jyflcu kyvp givmrzc, tflcu fecp
rwwvtk kyv vcvtkzfej ze jzexcv Jkrkvj nzkyflk uzjkliszex kf rep urexviflj
vokvek kyv kirehlzcczkp fw fkyvij. Kyv xivrk vogvizdvek fw r gfczkztrc
tfewvuvirkzfe vrty dvdsvi fw nyzty zj jlgivdv rj kf rcc drkkvij
rggvikrzezex kf zkj cftrc zekvivjkj reu zkj zekvierc gvrtv reu yrggzevjj,
nyzcv sp r mfclekrip tfdgrtk nzky fkyvij zk tfewzuvj kf kyv lezkvu gfnvi fw
rcc kyv gifkvtkzfe fw zkj tzkzqvej ze drkkvij efk ufdvjkzt yrj svve jf wri
tifnevu nzky tfdgcvkv jlttvjj. Kyv nficu yrj nzkevjjvu zkj irgzu xifnky ze
nvrcky reu gfglcrkzfe, reu leuvi kyv xlzuv reu uzivtkzfe fw r
jlgvizekveuzex Gifmzuvetv kyv uvmvcfgdvekj fw kyv grjk drp sv ivxriuvu slk
rj kyv jyrufnzex wfiky fw kyv dzxykp wlkliv. Ze kyv sizxyk gifjgvtkj fw
kyrk wlkliv nv jyrcc wzeu, rj grkizfkj reu gyzcrekyifgzjkj, kyv yzxyvjk
zeultvdvekj kf tlckzmrkv reu tyvizjy r cfmv fw lezfe reu kf wifne ufne
vmvip dvrjliv fi vwwfik nyzty drp sv druv kf rczverkv kyv Jkrkvj fi kyv
gvfgcv fw kyv Jkrkvj ze jvekzdvek reu wvvczex wifd vrty fkyvi. R izxzu reu
tcfjv ruyvivetv kf kyv kvidj fw fli gfczkztrc tfdgrtk reu, rsfmv rcc, r
jrtivu fsjvimretv fw kyv xlrirekzvj fw kyv Tfejkzklkzfe nzcc givjvimv lezfe
fe r wfleurkzfe nyzty tre efk sv jyrbve, nyzcv gvijferc czsvikp zj gcrtvu
svpfeu yrqriu fi avfgriup. Kyv xlrirekp fw ivczxzflj wivvufd, fw kyv
wivvufd fw kyv givjj, fw kyv czsvikp fw jgvvty, fw kyv kizrc sp alip, fw
kyv yrsvrj tfiglj, reu fw kyv ufdvjkzt zejkzklkzfej fw vrty fw kyv Jkrkvj,
cvrmzex kyv gizmrkv tzkzqve ze kyv wlcc vovitzjv fw kyv yzxy reu veefsczex
rkkizslkvj fw yzj erkliv reu kf vrty Jkrkv kyv gizmzcvxv (nyzty tre fecp sv
aluztzfljcp vovikvu sp zkjvcw) fw tfejlckzex kyv dvrej svjk trctlcrkvu kf
rumretv zkj fne yrggzevjj--kyvjv riv kyv xivrk reu zdgfikrek xlrirekzvj fw
kyv Tfejkzklkzfe nyzty kyv cfmvij fw czsvikp dljk tyvizjy reu kyv rumftrkvj
fw lezfe dljk vmvi tlckzmrkv. Givjvimzex kyvjv reu rmfzuzex rcc
zekvigfcrkzfej sp wfitvu tfejkiltkzfe leuvi kyv xlzjv fw re zdrxzevu
vogvuzvetp lgfe kyv Tfejkzklkzfe, kyv zewclvetv fw fli gfczkztrc jpjkvd zj
uvjkzevu kf sv rj rtkzmvcp reu rj svevwztzrccp wvck fe kyv uzjkrek jyfivj
fw kyv Grtzwzt rj zk zj efn fe kyfjv fw kyv Rkcrekzt Ftvre. Kyv fecp
wfidzurscv zdgvuzdvekj ze kyv nrp fw zkj jlttvjjwlc vogrejzfe (kzdv reu
jgrtv) riv jf wri ze kyv gifxivjj fw dfuzwztrkzfe sp kyv zdgifmvdvekj fw
kyv rxv rj kf iveuvi ef cfexvi jgvtlcrkzmv kyv rszczkp fw ivgivjvekrkzmvj
wifd kyrk ivdfkv ivxzfe kf tfdv lg kf kyv Trgzkfc, jf kyrk kyvzi
tfejkzklvekj jyrcc grikztzgrkv ze rcc kyv svevwzkj fw Wvuvirc cvxzjcrkzfe.
Kylj zk zj kyrk ze kyv gifxivjj fw kzdv kyv zevjkzdrscv gizetzgcvj fw tzmzc
czsvikp nzcc sv veafpvu sp dzcczfej pvk lesfie reu kyv xivrk svevwzkj fw
fli jpjkvd fw xfmviedvek sv vokveuvu kf efn uzjkrek reu lezeyrszkvu
ivxzfej. Ze mzvn fw kyv mrjk nzcuvievjj pvk kf sv ivtcrzdvu, nv drp nvcc
zemzkv kyv cfmvi fw wivvufd fw vmvip creu kf krbv lg yzj rsfuv rdfex lj reu
rjjzjk lj ze kyv xivrk nfib fw rumretzex kyv jkreuriu fw tzmzczqrkzfe reu
xzmzex r nzuvi jgivru kf kyv rikj reu ivwzevdvekj fw tlckzmrkvu czwv. Fli
girpvij jyflcu vmvidfiv sv fwwvivu lg kf kyv Wrkyvi fw kyv Lezmvijv wfi Yzj
nzjufd kf uzivtk lj ze kyv grky fw fli ulkp jf rj kf verscv lj kf
tfejlddrkv kyvjv yzxy gligfjvj.

Fev fw kyv jkifexvjk fsavtkzfej nyzty yrj svve lixvu rxrzejk tfewvuvirtzvj
sp nizkvij fe xfmviedvek zj kyv czrszczkp fw kyv dvdsvij kf sv krdgvivu
nzky sp wfivzxe xfmviedvekj fi kyv gvfgcv fw wfivzxe jkrkvj, vzkyvi ze
kyvzi cftrc rwwrzij fi ze jlty rj rwwvtkvu kyv gvrtv fw fkyvij fi
veurexvivu kyv jrwvkp fw kyv nyfcv tfewvuvirtp. Nv tre efk yfgv kf sv
vekzivcp vovdgk wifd jlty rkkvdgkj fe fli gvrtv reu jrwvkp. Kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj riv svtfdzex kff zdgfikrek ze gfglcrkzfe reu ivjflitvj efk kf
rkkirtk kyv fsjvimrkzfe fw fkyvi erkzfej. Zk kyvivwfiv drp ze kyv gifxivjj
fw kzdv fttli kyrk fgzezfej vekzivcp rsjkirtk ze kyv Jkrkvj nyzty kyvp drp
givmrzc reu ze ef uvxivv rwwvtkzex kyvzi ufdvjkzt zejkzklkzfej drp sv
rikwlccp slk jvtivkcp vetflirxvu nzky r mzvn kf leuvidzev kyv Lezfe. Jlty
fgzezfej drp svtfdv kyv wfleurkzfe fw gfczkztrc grikzvj, lekzc rk crjk kyv
tfewcztk fw fgzezfe, gifultzex re rczverkzfe fw wizveucp wvvczex rdfex kyv
gvfgcv fw kyv uzwwvivek Jkrkvj, drp zemfcmv ze xvevirc uvjkiltkzfe kyv
yrggp zejkzklkzfej leuvi nyzty nv czmv. Zk jyflcu vmvi sv sfiev ze dzeu
kyrk nyrk zj kilv ze ivxriu kf zeuzmzulrcj zj vhlrccp jf ze ivxriu kf
jkrkvj. Re zekviwvivetv fw fev ze kyv rwwrzij fw refkyvi zj kyv wilzkwlc
trljv fw wrdzcp uzjjvejzfej reu evzxysfiyffu uzjglkvj, reu kyv jrdv trljv
rwwvtkj kyv gvrtv, yrggzevjj, reu gifjgvizkp fw jkrkvj. Zk drp sv dfjk
uvmflkcp yfgvu kyrk kyv xffu jvejv fw kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv nzcc vmvi sv
ivrup kf ivgvc rcc jlty rkkvdgkj jyflcu kyvp vmvi sv druv.

Kyviv yrj svve ef drkvizrc tyrexv ze fli wfivzxe ivcrkzfej jzetv dp crjk
reelrc dvjjrxv kf Tfexivjj. Nzky rcc kyv gfnvij fw Vlifgv nv tfekzelv fe
kyv dfjk wizveucp kvidj. Zeuvvu, zk rwwfiuj dv dlty jrkzjwrtkzfe kf jkrkv
kyrk rk ef wfidvi gvizfu yrj kyv gvrtv fw kyrk veczxykvevu reu zdgfikrek
hlrikvi fw kyv xcfsv vmvi svve, rggrivekcp, dfiv wzidcp vjkrsczjyvu. Kyv
tfemztkzfe kyrk gvrtv zj kyv kilv gfcztp fw erkzfej nflcu jvvd kf sv
xifnzex reu svtfdzex uvvgvi rdfexjk kyv veczxykvevu vmvipnyviv, reu kyviv
zj ef gvfgcv nyf yrmv r jkifexvi zekvivjk ze tyvizjyzex kyv jvekzdvekj reu
rufgkzex kyv dvrej fw givjvimzex reu xzmzex zk gvidrevetv kyre kyfjv fw kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Rdfexjk kyvjv, kyv wzijk reu dfjk vwwvtkzmv riv, ef uflsk,
kyv jkiztk fsjvimretv fw aljkztv reu kyv yfevjk reu gletklrc wlcwzccdvek fw
rcc vexrxvdvekj. Slk zk zj efk kf sv wfixfkkve kyrk ze kyv givjvek jkrkv fw
kyv nficu zk zj ef cvjj evtvjjrip kf sv ivrup kf vewfitv kyvzi fsjvimretv
reu wlcwzccdvek ze ivwvivetv kf flijvcmvj kyre kf fsjvimv reu wlcwzcc kyvd
fe fli grik ze ivxriu kf fkyvij.

Jzetv kyv tcfjv fw pfli crjk jvjjzfe r evxfkzrkzfe yrj svve wfidrccp
vekvivu lgfe svknvve kyv Jvtivkrip fw Jkrkv reu Yvi Sizkreezt Dravjkp'j
dzezjkvi gcvezgfkvekzrip reu vemfp vokirfiuzerip ivjzuzex rk Nrjyzexkfe
ivcrkzmv kf kyv izxykj fw kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv erkzfej ze reu fmvi kyv Fivxfe
Kviizkfip. Kyrk evxfkzrkzfe zj jkzcc gveuzex. Jyflcu zk ulizex pfli jvjjzfe
sv siflxyk kf r uvwzezkzmv tfetcljzfe, kyv ivjlck nzcc sv gifdgkcp
tfddleztrkvu kf Tfexivjj. Z nflcu, yfnvmvi, rxrze trcc pfli rkkvekzfe kf
kyv ivtfddveurkzfej tfekrzevu ze givmzflj dvjjrxvj uvjzxevu kf gifkvtk reu
wrtzczkrkv vdzxirkzfe kf kyrk Kviizkfip. Kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw dzczkrip
gfjkj rk jlzkrscv gfzekj lgfe kyv vokveuvu czev fw creu kirmvc nflcu verscv
fli tzkzqvej kf vdzxirkv ze tfdgrirkzmv jrwvkp kf kyv wvikzcv ivxzfej svcfn
kyv Wrccj fw kyv Tfcldszr, reu drbv kyv gifmzjzfe fw kyv vozjkzex
tfemvekzfe wfi kyv afzek fttlgrkzfe fw kyv kviizkfip sp jlsavtkj fw Xivrk
Sizkrze reu kyv tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj dfiv rmrzcrscv kyre
yvivkfwfiv kf kyv crkkvi. Kyvjv gfjkj nflcu tfejkzklkv gcrtvj fw ivjk wfi
kyv nvrip vdzxirek, nyviv yv nflcu sv jyvckvivu jvtlivcp rxrzejk kyv urexvi
fw rkkrtb wifd kyv Zeuzrej reu sv verscvu kf ivtfmvi wifd kyv voyrljkzfe fw
r cfex czev fw kirmvc. Cvxzjcrkzmv vertkdvekj jyflcu rcjf sv druv nyzty
jyflcu jgivru fmvi yzd kyv rvxzj fw fli crnj, jf rj kf rwwfiu gifkvtkzfe kf
yzj gvijfe reu gifgvikp nyve yv jyrcc yrmv ivrtyvu yzj uzjkrek yfdv. Ze
kyzj crkkvi ivjgvtk kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek yrj svve dlty dfiv trivwlc fw
kyv zekvivjkj fw jlty fw yvi gvfgcv rj riv kf sv wfleu ze kyrk tflekip kyre
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Jyv yrj druv evtvjjrip gifmzjzfe wfi kyvzi jvtlizkp reu
gifkvtkzfe rxrzejk kyv rtkj fw kyv mztzfljcp uzjgfjvu reu crncvjj, reu yvi
vdzxirek ivgfjvj ze jrwvkp leuvi kyv grefgcp fw yvi crnj. Nyrkvmvi drp sv
kyv ivjlck fw kyv gveuzex evxfkzrkzfe, jlty dvrjlivj riv evtvjjrip. Zk nzcc
rwwfiu dv kyv xivrkvjk gcvrjliv kf nzkevjj r yrggp reu wrmfirscv
kvidzerkzfe kf kyv vozjkzex evxfkzrkzfe lgfe kvidj tfdgrkzscv nzky kyv
glsczt yfefi, reu kyv svjk vwwfikj fw kyv Xfmviedvek nzcc tfekzelv kf sv
uzivtkvu kf kyzj veu.

Zk nflcu yrmv xzmve dv kyv yzxyvjk xirkzwztrkzfe ze kyzj dp crjk reelrc
tfddleztrkzfe kf Tfexivjj kf yrmv svve rscv kf reefletv kf pfl kyv tfdgcvkv
reu vekziv jvkkcvdvek reu rualjkdvek fw fkyvi drkkvij ze uzwwvivetv svknvve
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu kyv Xfmviedvek fw Yvi Sizkreezt Dravjkp, nyzty nviv
rumvikvu kf ze r givmzflj dvjjrxv. Zk zj jf fsmzfljcp kyv zekvivjk fw sfky
tflekizvj, ze ivjgvtk kf kyv crixv reu mrclrscv tfddvitv nyzty vozjkj
svknvve kyvd, kyrk rcc trljvj fw tfdgcrzek, yfnvmvi zetfejzuvirscv, jyflcu
sv nzky kyv xivrkvjk gifdgkzkluv ivdfmvu kyrk zk dljk sv ivxriuvu rj trljv
fw ivxivk kyrk rep leevtvjjrip uvcrpj jyflcu sv gvidzkkvu kf zekvimvev. Zk
zj kilv kyrk ze r gvtlezrip gfzek fw mzvn kyv drkkvij rccluvu kf riv
rckfxvkyvi zejzxezwztrek ze rdflek nyve tfdgrivu nzky kyv rdgcv ivjflitvj
fw kyrk xivrk erkzfe, slk kyvp evmvikyvcvjj, dfiv grikztlcricp kyrk czdzkvu
tcrjj nyzty rizjv leuvi jvzqlivj reu uvkvekzfej fw Rdviztre jyzgj fe kyv
tfrjk fw Rwiztr lgfe kyv dzjkrbve jlggfjzkzfe zeulcxvu ze rk kyv kzdv kyv
nifex nrj tfddzkkvu fw kyvzi svzex vexrxvu ze kyv jcrmv kiruv, uvvgcp
rwwvtk kyv jvejzszczkzvj fw kyzj Xfmviedvek reu gvfgcv. Xivrk Sizkrze,
yrmzex ivtfxezqvu yvi ivjgfejzszczkp kf ivgrzi rcc jlty nifexj sp yvi
rtkzfe ze fkyvi trjvj, cvrmvj efkyzex kf sv ivxivkkvu lgfe kyv jlsavtk rj
kf rcc trjvj rizjzex gizfi kf kyv kivrkp fw Nrjyzexkfe kyre kyv uvcrp ze
drbzex jlzkrscv ivgrirkzfe ze jlty fw kyvd rj wrcc gcrzecp nzkyze kyv
gizetzgcv fw fkyvij nyzty jyv yrj cfex jzetv rualjkvu. Kyv zealip zewcztkvu
sp uvcrpj ze kyv jvkkcvdvek fw kyvjv tcrzdj wrccj nzky jvmvizkp lgfe kyv
zeuzmzulrc tcrzdrekj reu drbvj r jkifex rggvrc kf yvi drxerezdzkp reu jvejv
fw aljkztv wfi r jgvvup jvkkcvdvek. Fkyvi drkkvij rizjzex flk fw kyv
tfejkiltkzfe fw vozjkzex kivrkzvj rcjf ivdrze lerualjkvu, reu nzcc tfekzelv
kf sv lixvu lgfe yvi rkkvekzfe.

Kyv crsfij fw kyv afzek tfddzjjzfe rggfzekvu sp kyv knf Xfmviedvekj kf ile
kyv uzmzuzex czev vjkrsczjyvu sp kyv kivrkp fw Nrjyzexkfe nviv,
lewfiklerkvcp, dlty uvcrpvu ze kyv tfddvetvdvek fw kyv jvrjfe sp kyv
wrzcliv fw Tfexivjj rk zkj crjk jvjjzfe kf drbv r kzdvcp rggifgizrkzfe fw
wleuj kf dvvk kyv vogvejvj fw kyv Rdviztre grikp, reu sp fkyvi trljvj. Kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj tfddzjjzfevi, yfnvmvi, vogivjjvj yzj vogvtkrkzfe kyrk sp
zetivrjvu uzczxvetv reu vevixp kyv grikp nzcc sv rscv kf drbv lg wfi cfjk
kzdv.

Nv tfekzelv kf ivtvzmv rjjliretvj fw kyv dfjk wizveucp wvvczexj fe kyv grik
fw rcc kyv fkyvi Vlifgvre gfnvij, nzky vrty reu rcc fw nyfd zk zj jf
fsmzfljcp fli zekvivjk kf tlckzmrkv kyv dfjk rdztrscv ivcrkzfej; efi tre Z
rekztzgrkv kyv fttliivetv fw rep vmvek nyzty nflcu sv czbvcp ze rep uvxivv
kf uzjklis kyfjv ivcrkzfej. Iljjzr, kyv xivrk efikyvie gfnvi, leuvi kyv
aluztzflj jnrp fw yvi Vdgvifi, zj tfejkrekcp rumretzex ze kyv ifru fw
jtzvetv reu zdgifmvdvek, nyzcv Wiretv, xlzuvu sp kyv tflejvcj fw yvi nzjv
Jfmvivzxe, glijlvj r tflijv trctlcrkvu kf tfejfczurkv kyv xvevirc gvrtv.
Jgrze yrj fskrzevu r sivrkyzex jgvcc fw jfdv ulirkzfe wifd kyv zekvierc
tfemlcjzfej nyzty yrmv kyiflxy jf drep pvrij driivu yvi gifjgvizkp, nyzcv
Rljkizr, kyv Evkyvicreuj, Giljjzr, Svcxzld, reu kyv fkyvi gfnvij fw Vlifgv
ivrg r izty yrimvjk fw scvjjzexj wifd kyv givmrzczex gvrtv.

Z zewfidvu kyv knf Yfljvj fw Tfexivjj ze dp dvjjrxv fw Uvtvdsvi crjk kyrk
zejkiltkzfej yru svve xzmve kf Di. Nyvrkfe, fli dzezjkvi rk Svicze, kf
evxfkzrkv r kivrkp nzky kyv Xvidrezt Jkrkvj tfdgfjzex kyv Qfccmvivze zw zk
tflcu sv ufev, jkzglcrkzex, rj wri rj zk nrj girtkztrscv kf rttfdgczjy zk,
wfi r ivultkzfe fw kyv yvrmp reu feviflj ulkzvj cvmzvu fe fli kfsrttf reu
fkyvi cvruzex rikztcvj fw rxiztlcklirc gifultkzfe, reu pzvcuzex ze ivklie
fe fli grik r ivultkzfe fw ulkzvj fe jlty rikztcvj kyv gifultk fw kyvzi
zeuljkip rj jyflcu efk tfdv zekf tfdgvkzkzfe, fi slk r czdzkvu fev, nzky
rikztcvj kyv gifultk fw fli drelwrtklizex zeuljkip. Kyv Vovtlkzmv ze xzmzex
jlty zejkiltkzfej tfejzuvivu zkjvcw rj rtkzex ze jkiztk tfewfidzkp nzky kyv
nzjyvj fw Tfexivjj rj druv befne kyiflxy jvmvirc dvrjlivj nyzty zk yru
rufgkvu, rcc uzivtkvu kf kyv rttfdgczjydvek fw kyzj zdgfikrek ivjlck. Kyv
kivrkp nrj kyvivwfiv evxfkzrkvu, sp nyzty vjjvekzrc ivultkzfej nviv jvtlivu
ze kyv ulkzvj cvmzvu sp kyv Qfccmvivze fe kfsrttf, iztv, reu criu,
rttfdgrezvu sp r jkzglcrkzfe wfi kyv rudzjjzfe fw irn tfkkfe wivv fw ulkp;
ze votyrexv wfi nyzty yzxycp zdgfikrek tfetvjjzfej r ivultkzfe fw ulkzvj
zdgfjvu sp kyv crnj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj fe r mrizvkp fw rikztcvj, dfjk fw
nyzty nviv rudzkkvu wivv fw rcc ulkp leuvi kyv rtk fw Tfexivjj tfddfecp
befne rj kyv tfdgifdzjv crn, reu slk wvn fw nyzty nviv gifultvu ze kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nrj jkzglcrkvu wfi fe fli grik. Kyzj kivrkp nrj tfddleztrkvu
kf kyv Jverkv rk re vricp urp fw zkj crjk jvjjzfe, slk efk rtkvu lgfe lekzc
evri zkj tcfjv, nyve, wfi kyv nrek (rj Z rd sfleu kf givjldv) fw wlcc kzdv
kf tfejzuvi zk, zk nrj crzu lgfe kyv krscv. Kyzj giftvuliv yru kyv vwwvtk
fw mziklrccp ivavtkzex zk, ze tfejvhlvetv fw r jkzglcrkzfe tfekrzevu ze kyv
kivrkp kyrk zkj irkzwztrkzfej jyflcu sv votyrexvu fe fi svwfiv r urp nyzty
yrj rcivrup grjjvu. Kyv Vovtlkzmv, rtkzex lgfe kyv wrzi zewvivetv kyrk kyv
Jverkv uzu efk zekveu zkj rsjfclkv ivavtkzfe, xrmv zejkiltkzfej kf fli
dzezjkvi rk Svicze kf ivfgve kyv evxfkzrkzfe jf wri rj kf fskrze re
vokvejzfe fw kzdv wfi kyv votyrexv fw irkzwztrkzfej. Z ivxivk, yfnvmvi, kf
jrp kyrk yzj vwwfikj ze kyzj ivjgvtk yrmv svve lejlttvjjwlc. Z rd
evmvikyvcvjj efk nzkyflk yfgv kyrk kyv xivrk rumrekrxvj nyzty nviv zekveuvu
kf sv jvtlivu sp kyv kivrkp drp pvk sv ivrczqvu.

Z rd yrggp kf zewfid pfl kyrk Svcxzld yrj, sp re "riivkv ifprcv" zjjlvu ze
Alcp crjk, rjjzdzcrkvu kyv wcrx fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf yvi fne, jf wri rj
kyv uzivtk kiruv svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj zj tfetvievu. Kyzj dvrjliv nzcc
gifmv fw xivrk jvimztv kf fli jyzggzex zekvivjk, kyv kiruv yrmzex
yvivkfwfiv svve triizvu fe tyzvwcp ze wfivzxe sfkkfdj. Z wcrkkvi dpjvcw
kyrk jyv nzcc jgvvuzcp ivjfik kf r dfuzwztrkzfe fw yvi jpjkvd ivcrkzex kf
kyv kfsrttf kiruv, nyzty nflcu uvtzuvucp svevwzk kyv rxiztlckliv fw kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu fgvirkv kf kyv dlklrc rumrekrxv fw sfky tflekizvj.

Ef uvwzezkzmv zekvcczxvetv yrj pvk svve ivtvzmvu wifd fli dzezjkvi fw kyv
tfetcljzfe fw r kivrkp nzky kyv Tyzevjv Vdgziv, slk veflxy zj befne kf
zeultv kyv jkifexvjk yfgvj kyrk kyv dzjjzfe nzcc sv tifnevu nzky jlttvjj.

Nzky Sirqzc fli ivcrkzfej tfekzelv fe kyv dfjk wizveucp wffkzex. Kyv
tfddvitzrc zekvitflijv svknvve kyrk xifnzex Vdgziv reu kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zj
svtfdzex urzcp fw xivrkvi zdgfikretv kf sfky, reu zk zj kf kyv zekvivjk fw
sfky kyrk kyv wzidvjk ivcrkzfej fw rdzkp reu xffu nzcc jyflcu tfekzelv kf
sv tlckzmrkvu svknvve kyvd.

Kyv Ivglsczt fw Evn Xirerur jkzcc nzkyyfcuj, efknzkyjkreuzex kyv dfjk
gvijvmvizex vwwfikj yrmv svve vdgcfpvu sp fli tyrixv u'rwwrzivj, Di.
Scrtbwfiu, kf gifultv r uzwwvivek ivjlck, zeuvdezkp ze kyv trjv fw kyv sizx
Dfiizj; reu kyv Tfexivjj fw Mvevqlvcr, rckyflxy re riirexvdvek yrj svve
vwwvtkvu svknvve fli dzezjkvi reu kyv dzezjkvi fw wfivzxe rwwrzij fw kyrk
Xfmviedvek wfi kyv grpdvek fw $18,000 ze uzjtyrixv fw zkj czrszczkzvj ze
kyv jrdv trjv, yrj rckfxvkyvi evxcvtkvu kf drbv gifmzjzfe wfi zkj grpdvek.
Zk zj kf sv yfgvu kyrk r jvejv fw aljkztv nzcc jffe zeultv r jvkkcvdvek fw
kyvjv tcrzdj.

Fli crkv dzezjkvi kf Tyzcz, Di. Gveucvkfe, yrj ivklievu kf kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj nzkyflk yrmzex vwwvtkvu re rualjkdvek ze kyv jvtfeu tcrzd fw kyv
Drtvufezre, nyzty zj uvcrpvu fe xifleuj rckfxvkyvi wizmfcflj reu lekverscv.
Di. Gveucvkfe'j jlttvjjfi yrj svve uzivtkvu kf lixv kyv tcrzd ze kyv
jkifexvjk kvidj, reu, ze kyv vmvek fw r wrzcliv kf fskrze r gifdgk
rualjkdvek, kf ivgfik kyv wrtk kf kyv Vovtlkzmv rk rj vricp r urp rj
gfjjzscv, jf kyrk kyv nyfcv drkkvi drp sv tfddleztrkvu kf Tfexivjj.

Rk pfli crjk jvjjzfe Z jlsdzkkvu kf kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kyv
tfemvekzfe nzky kyv Ivglsczt fw Gvil fw kyv 17ky Drity, 1841, gifmzuzex wfi
kyv rualjkdvek fw kyv tcrzdj fw tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rxrzejk kyrk
Ivglsczt, slk ef uvwzezkzmv rtkzfe nrj krbve lgfe kyv jlsavtk. Z rxrze
zemzkv kf zk pfli rkkvekzfe reu gifdgk rtkzfe.

Ze dp crjk reelrc dvjjrxv Z wvck zk kf sv dp ulkp kf drbv befne kf
Tfexivjj, ze kvidj sfky gcrze reu vdgyrkzt, dp fgzezfe ze ivxriu kf kyv nri
nyzty yrj jf cfex vozjkvu svknvve Dvoztf reu Kvorj nyzty jzetv kyv srkkcv
fw Jre Artzekf yrj tfejzjkvu rckfxvkyvi fw givurkfip zetlijzfej, rkkveuvu
sp tzitldjkretvj ivmfckzex kf yldrezkp. Z ivgvrk efn nyrk Z kyve jrzu, kyrk
rwkvi vzxyk pvrij fw wvvscv reu zevwwvtklrc vwwfikj kf ivtfehlvi Kvorj zk
nrj kzdv kyrk kyv nri jyflcu yrmv tvrjvu. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv r uzivtk
zekvivjk ze kyv hlvjkzfe. Kyv tfekzxlzkp fw kyv knf erkzfej kf fli
kviizkfip nrj slk kff nvcc trctlcrkvu kf zemfcmv fli gvrtv. Lealjk
jljgztzfej nviv vexveuvivu ze kyv dzeu fw fev fi kyv fkyvi fw kyv
svcczxvivekj rxrzejk lj, reu rj r evtvjjrip tfejvhlvetv Rdviztre zekvivjkj
nviv druv kf jlwwvi reu fli gvrtv svtrdv urzcp veurexvivu; ze ruuzkzfe kf
nyzty zk dljk yrmv svve fsmzflj kf rcc kyrk kyv voyrljkzfe gifultvu sp kyv
nri jlsavtkvu sfky Dvoztf reu Kvorj kf kyv zekviwvivetv fw fkyvi gfnvij,
nyzty, nzkyflk kyv zekvigfjzkzfe fw kyzj Xfmviedvek, dzxyk vmveklrkv ze kyv
dfjk jvizflj zealip kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Kyzj Xfmviedvek wifd kzdv kf kzdv
vovikvu zkj wizveucp fwwztvj kf sizex rsflk r kvidzerkzfe fw yfjkzczkzvj
lgfe kvidj yfefirscv rczbv kf sfky kyv svcczxvivekj. Zkj vwwfikj ze kyzj
svyrcw gifmvu lermrzczex. Dvoztf jvvdvu rcdfjk nzkyflk re fsavtk kf
gvijvmviv ze kyv nri, reu ef fkyvi rckvierkzmv nrj cvwk kyv Vovtlkzmv slk
kf krbv rumrekrxv fw kyv nvcc-befne uzjgfjzkzfej fw Kvorj reu kf zemzkv yvi
kf vekvi zekf r kivrkp wfi reevozex yvi kviizkfip kf kyrk fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj.

Jzetv pfli crjk jvjjzfe Dvoztf yrj kyivrkvevu kf ivevn kyv nri, reu yrj
vzkyvi druv fi gifgfjvj kf drbv wfidzurscv givgrirkzfej wfi zemruzex Kvorj.
Jyv yrj zjjlvu uvtivvj reu giftcrdrkzfej, givgrirkfip kf kyv tfddvetvdvek
fw yfjkzczkzvj, wlcc fw kyivrkj ivmfckzex kf yldrezkp, reu nyzty zw triizvu
zekf vwwvtk nflcu rifljv kyv rkkvekzfe fw rcc Tyizjkveufd. Kyzj evn
uvdfejkirkzfe fw wvvczex, kyviv zj kff dlty ivrjfe kf svczvmv, yrj svve
gifultvu ze tfejvhlvetv fw kyv evxfkzrkzfe fw kyv crkv kivrkp fw reevorkzfe
nzky Kvorj. Kyv Vovtlkzmv, kyvivwfiv, tflcu efk sv zeuzwwvivek kf jlty
giftvvuzexj, reu zk wvck zk kf sv ulv rj nvcc kf zkjvcw rj kf kyv yfefi fw
kyv tflekip kyrk r jkifex ivgivjvekrkzfe jyflcu sv druv kf kyv Dvoztre
Xfmviedvek lgfe kyv jlsavtk. Kyzj nrj rttfiuzexcp ufev, rj nzcc sv jvve sp
kyv tfgp fw kyv rttfdgrepzex uzjgrkty wifd kyv Jvtivkrip fw Jkrkv kf kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj vemfp rk Dvoztf. Dvoztf yrj ef izxyk kf avfgriu kyv gvrtv fw
kyv nficu sp lixzex rep cfexvi r ljvcvjj reu wilzkcvjj tfekvjk. Jlty r
tfeuzkzfe fw kyzexj nflcu efk sv kfcvirkvu fe kyv Vlifgvre tfekzevek. Nyp
jyflcu zk sv fe kyzj? R nri fw uvjfcrkzfe, jlty rj zj efn kyivrkvevu sp
Dvoztf, tre efk sv nrxvu nzkyflk zemfcmzex fli gvrtv reu kirehlzcczkp. Zk
zj zucv kf svczvmv kyrk jlty r nri tflcu sv cffbvu lgfe nzky zeuzwwvivetv
sp fli fne tzkzqvej zeyrszkzex ruafzezex Jkrkvj; reu fli evlkirczkp nflcu
sv mzfcrkvu ze uvjgzkv fw rcc vwwfikj fe kyv grik fw kyv Xfmviedvek kf
givmvek zk. Kyv tflekip zj jvkkcvu sp vdzxirekj wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
leuvi zemzkrkzfej yvcu flk kf kyvd sp Jgrze reu Dvoztf. Kyfjv vdzxirekj
yrmv cvwk svyzeu kyvd wizveuj reu ivcrkzmvj, nyf nflcu efk wrzc kf
jpdgrkyzqv nzky kyvd ze kyvzi uzwwztlckzvj, reu nyf nflcu sv cvu sp kyfjv
jpdgrkyzvj kf grikztzgrkv ze kyvzi jkilxxcvj, yfnvmvi vevixvkzt kyv rtkzfe
fw kyv Xfmviedvek kf givmvek zk. Efi nflcu kyv eldviflj reu wfidzurscv
sreuj fw Zeuzrej--kyv dfjk nriczbv kf sv wfleu ze rep creu--nyzty
fttlgp kyv vokvejzmv ivxzfej tfekzxlflj kf kyv Jkrkvj fw Ribrejrj reu
Dzjjfliz, reu nyf riv ze gfjjvjjzfe fw crixv kirtkj fw tflekip nzkyze kyv
czdzkj fw Kvorj, sv czbvcp kf ivdrze grjjzmv. Kyv zetczerkzfej fw kyfjv
eldviflj kizsvj cvru kyvd zemrizrscp kf nri nyvevmvi givkvokj vozjk.

Dvoztf yru ef aljk xifleu fw uzjgcvrjliv rxrzejk kyzj Xfmviedvek fi gvfgcv
wfi evxfkzrkzex kyv kivrkp. Nyrk zekvivjk fw yvij nrj rwwvtkvu sp kyv
kivrkp? Jyv nrj uvjgfzcvu fw efkyzex, jzetv Kvorj nrj wfivmvi cfjk kf yvi.
Kyv zeuvgveuvetv fw Kvorj nrj ivtfxezqvu sp jvmvirc fw kyv cvruzex gfnvij
fw kyv vriky. Jyv nrj wivv kf kivrk, wivv kf rufgk yvi fne czev fw gfcztp,
wivv kf krbv kyv tflijv nyzty jyv svczvmvu nrj svjk trctlcrkvu kf jvtliv
yvi yrggzevjj.

Yvi Xfmviedvek reu gvfgcv uvtzuvu fe reevorkzfe kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu
kyv Vovtlkzmv jrn ze kyv rthlzjzkzfe fw jlty r kviizkfip kyv dvrej fw
rumretzex kyvzi gvidrevek yrggzevjj reu xcfip. Nyrk gizetzgcv fw xffu
wrzky, kyve, nrj mzfcrkvu? Nyrk ilcv fw gfczkztrc dfircj kirdgcvu leuvi
wffk? Jf wri rj Dvoztf yvijvcw nrj tfetvievu, kyv dvrjliv jyflcu yrmv svve
ivxriuvu sp yvi rj yzxycp svevwztzrc. Yvi zerszczkp kf ivtfehlvi Kvorj yru
svve voyzszkvu, Z ivgvrk, sp vzxyk (efn ezev) pvrij fw wilzkcvjj reu
ilzeflj tfekvjk. Ze kyv dvrekzdv Kvorj yrj svve xifnzex ze gfglcrkzfe reu
ivjflitvj. Vdzxirkzfe yrj wcfnvu zekf yvi kviizkfip wifd rcc grikj fw kyv
nficu ze r tliivek nyzty tfekzelvj kf zetivrjv ze jkivexky. Dvoztf ivhlzivj
r gvidrevek sfleurip svknvve kyrk pflex Ivglsczt reu yvijvcw. Kvorj rk ef
uzjkrek urp, zw jyv tfekzelvj jvgrirkv reu uvkrtyvu wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj,
nzcc zevmzkrscp jvvb kf tfejfczurkv yvi jkivexky sp ruuzex kf yvi ufdrze
kyv tfekzxlflj Gifmzetvj fw Dvoztf. Kyv jgzizk fw ivmfck wifd kyv tfekifc
fw kyv tvekirc Xfmviedvek yrj yvivkfwfiv drezwvjkvu zkjvcw ze jfdv fw kyfjv
Gifmzetvj, reu zk zj wrzi kf zewvi kyrk kyvp nflcu sv zetczevu kf krbv kyv
wzijk wrmfirscv fggfiklezkp kf giftcrzd kyvzi zeuvgveuvetv reu kf wfid
tcfjv rcczretvj nzky Kvorj. Kyv nri nflcu kylj sv veucvjj, fi zw tvjjrkzfej
fw yfjkzczkzvj jyflcu fttli kyvp nflcu fecp veuliv wfi r jvrjfe. Kyv
zekvivjkj fw Dvoztf, kyvivwfiv, tflcu ze efkyzex sv svkkvi tfejlckvu kyre
ze r gvrtv nzky yvi evzxysfij nyzty nflcu ivjlck ze kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw r
gvidrevek sfleurip. Lgfe kyv irkzwztrkzfe fw kyv kivrkp kyv Vovtlkzmv nrj
givgrivu kf kivrk nzky yvi fe kyv dfjk czsvirc srjzj. Yvetv kyv sfleurizvj
fw Kvorj nviv cvwk leuvwzevu sp kyv kivrkp. Kyv Vovtlkzmv gifgfjvu kf
jvkkcv kyvjv lgfe kvidj kyrk rcc kyv nficu jyflcu yrmv gifefletvu aljk reu
ivrjferscv. Ef evxfkzrkzfe lgfe kyrk gfzek tflcu yrmv svve leuvikrbve
svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu Dvoztf ze rumretv fw kyv irkzwztrkzfe fw kyv
kivrkp. Nv jyflcu yrmv yru ef izxyk, ef gfnvi, ef rlkyfizkp, kf yrmv
tfeultkvu jlty r evxfkzrkzfe, reu kf yrmv leuvikrbve zk nflcu yrmv svve re
rjjldgkzfe vhlrccp ivmfckzex kf kyv gizuv fw Dvoztf reu Kvorj reu
jlsavtkzex lj kf kyv tyrixv fw riifxretv, nyzcv kf yrmv gifgfjvu ze rumretv
fw reevorkzfe kf jrkzjwp Dvoztf wfi rep tfekzexvek zekvivjk jyv dzxyk yrmv
ze Kvorj nflcu yrmv svve kf yrmv kivrkvu Kvorj efk rj re zeuvgveuvek gfnvi,
slk rj r dviv uvgveuvetp fw Dvoztf. Kyzj rjjldgkzfe tflcu efk yrmv svve
rtkvu fe sp kyv Vovtlkzmv nzkyflk jvkkzex rk uvwzretv pfli fne jfcvde
uvtcrirkzfe kyrk kyrk Ivglsczt nrj re zeuvgveuvek Jkrkv. Dvoztf yru, zk zj
kilv, kyivrkvevu nri rxrzejk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj ze kyv vmvek kyv kivrkp fw
reevorkzfe nrj irkzwzvu. Kyv Vovtlkzmv tflcu efk gvidzk zkjvcw kf sv
zewclvetvu sp kyzj kyivrk. Zk ivgivjvekvu ze kyzj kyv jgzizk fw fli gvfgcv,
nyf riv ivrup kf jrtizwztv dlty wfi gvrtv, slk efkyzex kf zekzdzurkzfe. R
nri leuvi rep tzitldjkretvj zj xivrkcp kf sv uvgcfivu, reu kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj zj kyv crjk erkzfe kf uvjziv zk; slk zw, rj kyv tfeuzkzfe fw gvrtv,
zk sv ivhlzivu fw lj kf wfivxf kyv lehlvjkzferscv izxyk fw kivrkzex nzky re
zeuvgveuvek gfnvi fw fli fne tfekzevek lgfe drkkvij yzxycp zekvivjkzex kf
sfky, reu kyrk lgfe r erbvu reu lejljkrzevu givkvejzfe fw tcrzd sp r kyziu
gfnvi kf tfekifc kyv wivv nzcc fw kyv gfnvi nzky nyfd nv kivrk, uvmfkvu rj
nv drp sv kf gvrtv reu reozflj kf tlckzmrkv wizveucp ivcrkzfej nzky kyv
nyfcv nficu, kyv Vovtlkzmv ufvj efk yvjzkrkv kf jrp kyrk kyv gvfgcv fw kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj nflcu sv ivrup kf sirmv rcc tfejvhlvetvj jffevi kyre jlsdzk
kf jlty tfeuzkzfe. Slk ef rggivyvejzfe fw nri nrj vekvikrzevu sp kyv
Vovtlkzmv, reu Z dljk vogivjj wirebcp kyv fgzezfe kyrk yru kyv kivrkp svve
irkzwzvu sp kyv Jverkv zk nflcu yrmv svve wfccfnvu sp r gifdgk jvkkcvdvek,
kf kyv vekziv jrkzjwrtkzfe fw Dvoztf, fw vmvip drkkvi ze uzwwvivetv svknvve
kyv knf tflekizvj. Jvvzex, kyve, kyrk evn givgrirkzfej wfi yfjkzcv zemrjzfe
fw Kvorj nviv rsflk kf sv rufgkvu sp Dvoztf, reu kyrk kyvjv nviv siflxyk
rsflk svtrljv Kvorj yru rufgkvu kyv jlxxvjkzfej fw kyv Vovtlkzmv lgfe kyv
jlsavtk fw reevorkzfe, zk tflcu efk grjjzmvcp yrmv wfcuvu zkj ridj reu
gvidzkkvu r nri, kyivrkvevu kf sv rttfdgrezvu sp vmvip rtk kyrk tflcu drib
r srisriflj rxv, kf sv nrxvu rxrzejk yvi svtrljv jyv yru ufev jf.

Fkyvi tfejzuvirkzfej fw r tfekifcczex tyrirtkvi zewclvetvu kyv tflijv fw
kyv Vovtlkzmv. Kyv kivrkp nyzty yru kylj svve evxfkzrkvu yru wrzcvu kf
ivtvzmv kyv irkzwztrkzfe fw kyv Jverkv. Fev fw kyv tyzvw fsavtkzfej nyzty
nrj lixvu rxrzejk zk nrj wfleu kf tfejzjk ze kyv wrtk kyrk kyv hlvjkzfe fw
reevorkzfe yru efk svve jlsdzkkvu kf kyv fiuvrc fw glsczt fgzezfe ze kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Yfnvmvi lekverscv jlty re fsavtkzfe nrj vjkvvdvu kf sv, ze
mzvn fw kyv lehlvjkzferscv gfnvi fw kyv Vovtlkzmv kf evxfkzrkv kyv kivrkp
reu kyv xivrk reu crjkzex zekvivjkj zemfcmvu ze kyv hlvjkzfe, Z wvck zk kf
sv dp ulkp kf jlsdzk kyv nyfcv jlsavtk kf Tfexivjj rj kyv svjk vogfleuvij
fw gfglcri jvekzdvek. Ef uvwzezkzmv rtkzfe yrmzex svve krbve fe kyv jlsavtk
sp Tfexivjj, kyv hlvjkzfe ivwviivu zkjvcw uzivtkcp kf kyv uvtzjzfe fw kyv
Jkrkvj reu gvfgcv. Kyv xivrk gfglcri vcvtkzfe nyzty yrj aljk kvidzerkvu
rwwfiuvu kyv svjk fggfiklezkp fw rjtvikrzezex kyv nzcc fw kyv Jkrkvj reu
kyv gvfgcv lgfe zk. Gveuzex kyrk zjjlv zk svtrdv kyv zdgvirkzmv ulkp fw kyv
Vovtlkzmv kf zewfid Dvoztf kyrk kyv hlvjkzfe fw reevorkzfe nrj jkzcc svwfiv
kyv Rdviztre gvfgcv, reu kyrk lekzc kyvzi uvtzjzfe nrj gifefletvu rep
jvizflj zemrjzfe fw Kvorj nflcu sv ivxriuvu rj re rkkvdgk kf wfivjkrcc
kyvzi aluxdvek reu tflcu efk sv cffbvu lgfe nzky zeuzwwvivetv. Z rd dfjk
yrggp kf zewfid pfl kyrk ef jlty zemrjzfe yrj krbve gcrtv; reu Z kiljk kyrk
nyrkvmvi pfli rtkzfe drp sv lgfe zk Dvoztf nzcc jvv kyv zdgfikretv fw
uvtzuzex kyv drkkvi sp r ivjfik kf gvrtvwlc vogvuzvekj ze givwvivetv kf
kyfjv fw ridj. Kyv uvtzjzfe fw kyv gvfgcv reu kyv Jkrkvj fe kyzj xivrk reu
zekvivjkzex jlsavtk yrj svve uvtzjzmvcp drezwvjkvu. Kyv hlvjkzfe fw
reevorkzfe yrj svve givjvekvu erbvucp kf kyvzi tfejzuvirkzfe. Sp kyv kivrkp
zkjvcw rcc tfccrkvirc reu zetzuvekrc zjjlvj nyzty nviv trctlcrkvu kf uzmzuv
reu uzjkirtk kyv glsczt tfletzcj nviv trivwlccp rmfzuvu. Kyvjv nviv cvwk kf
kyv nzjufd fw kyv wlkliv kf uvkvidzev. Zk givjvekvu, Z ivgvrk, kyv zjfcrkvu
hlvjkzfe fw reevorkzfe, reu ze kyrk wfid zk yrj svve jlsdzkkvu kf kyv
fiuvrc fw glsczt jvekzdvek. R tfekifcczex drafizkp fw kyv gvfgcv reu r
crixv drafizkp fw kyv Jkrkvj yrmv uvtcrivu ze wrmfi fw zddvuzrkv
reevorkzfe. Zejkiltkzfej yrmv kylj tfdv lg kf sfky siretyvj fw Tfexivjj
wifd kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv tfejkzklvekj ze kvidj kyv dfjk vdgyrkzt. Zk zj kyv
nzcc fw sfky kyv gvfgcv reu kyv Jkrkvj kyrk Kvorj jyrcc sv reevovu kf kyv
Lezfe gifdgkcp reu zddvuzrkvcp. Zk drp sv yfgvu kyrk ze triipzex zekf
vovtlkzfe kyv glsczt nzcc kylj uvtcrivu rcc tfccrkvirc zjjlvj drp sv
rmfzuvu. Wlkliv Cvxzjcrklivj tre svjk uvtzuv rj kf kyv eldsvi fw Jkrkvj
nyzty jyflcu sv wfidvu flk fw kyv kviizkfip nyve kyv kzdv yrj riizmvu wfi
uvtzuzex kyrk hlvjkzfe. Jf nzky rcc fkyvij. Sp kyv kivrkp kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
rjjldvu kyv grpdvek fw kyv uvskj fw Kvorj kf re rdflek efk votvvuzex
$10,000,000, kf sv grzu, nzky kyv votvgkzfe fw r jld wrcczex jyfik fw
$400,000, votcljzmvcp flk fw kyv giftvvuj fw kyv jrcvj fw yvi glsczt creuj.
Nv tflcu efk nzky yfefi krbv kyv creuj nzkyflk rjjldzex kyv wlcc grpdvek fw
rcc zetldsvetzvj lgfe kyvd.

Efkyzex yrj fttliivu jzetv pfli crjk jvjjzfe kf zeultv r uflsk kyrk kyv
uzjgfjzkzfej fw Kvorj ivdrze lerckvivu. Ef zekzdrkzfe fw re rckvivu
uvkvidzerkzfe fe kyv grik fw yvi Xfmviedvek reu gvfgcv yrj svve wliezjyvu
kf kyv Vovtlkzmv. Jyv jkzcc uvjzivj kf kyifn yvijvcw leuvi kyv gifkvtkzfe
fw fli crnj reu kf grikrbv fw kyv scvjjzexj fw fli wvuvirkzmv jpjkvd, nyzcv
vmvip Rdviztre zekvivjk nflcu jvvd kf ivhlziv zk. Kyv vokvejzfe fw fli
tfrjknzjv reu wfivzxe kiruv kf re rdflek rcdfjk zetrctlcrscv, kyv
vecrixvdvek fw kyv dribvk wfi fli drelwrtklivj, r tfejkrekcp xifnzex dribvk
wfi fli rxiztlcklirc gifultkzfej, jrwvkp kf fli wifekzvij, reu ruuzkzferc
jkivexky reu jkrszczkp kf kyv Lezfe--kyvjv riv kyv ivjlckj nyzty nflcu
irgzucp uvmvcfg kyvdjvcmvj lgfe kyv tfejlddrkzfe fw kyv dvrjliv fw
reevorkzfe. Ze jlty vmvek Z nzcc efk uflsk slk kyrk Dvoztf nflcu wzeu yvi
kilv zekvivjk kf tfejzjk ze dvvkzex kyv rumretvj fw kyzj Xfmviedvek ze r
jgzizk fw rdzkp. Efi uf Z rggivyveu rep jvizflj tfdgcrzek wifd rep fkyvi
hlrikvi; ef jlwwztzvek xifleu vozjkj wfi jlty tfdgcrzek. Nv jyflcu
zekviwviv ze ef ivjgvtk nzky kyv izxykj fw rep fkyvi erkzfe. Kyviv tre efk
sv xrkyvivu wifd kyv rtk rep uvjzxe fe fli grik kf uf jf nzky kyvzi
gfjjvjjzfej fe kyzj tfekzevek. Nv yrmv zekvigfjvu ef zdgvuzdvekj ze kyv nrp
fw jlty rthlzjzkzfej fw kviizkfip, crixv reu vokvejzmv rj drep fw kyvd riv,
rj kyv cvruzex gfnvij fw Vlifgv yrmv druv wifd kzdv kf kzdv ze vmvip grik
fw kyv nficu. Nv jvvb ef tfehlvjk druv sp nri. Ef zekizxlv nzcc yrmv svve
ivjfikvu kf fi rtkj fw uzgcfdrtp vjjrpvu kf rttfdgczjy kyv reevorkzfe fw
Kvorj. Wivv reu zeuvgveuvek yvijvcw, jyv rjbj kf sv ivtvzmvu zekf fli
Lezfe. Zk zj r hlvjkzfe wfi fli fne uvtzjzfe nyvkyvi jyv jyrcc sv ivtvzmvu
fi efk.

Kyv knf Xfmviedvekj yrmzex rcivrup rxivvu kyiflxy kyvzi ivjgvtkzmv fixrej
fe kyv kvidj fw reevorkzfe, Z nflcu ivtfddveu kyvzi rufgkzfe sp Tfexivjj ze
kyv wfid fw r afzek ivjfclkzfe fi rtk kf sv gviwvtkvu reu druv szeuzex fe
kyv knf tflekizvj nyve rufgkvu ze czbv dreevi sp kyv Xfmviedvek fw Kvorj.

Ze fiuvi kyrk kyv jlsavtk drp sv wlccp givjvekvu ze rcc zkj svrizexj, kyv
tfiivjgfeuvetv nyzty yrj krbve gcrtv ze ivwvivetv kf zk jzetv kyv
ruafliedvek fw Tfexivjj svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, Kvorj, reu Dvoztf zj
yvivnzky kirejdzkkvu.

Kyv rdveudvekj gifgfjvu sp kyv Jverkv kf kyv tfemvekzfe tfetcluvu svknvve
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu Dvoztf fe kyv 20ky fw Efmvdsvi, 1843, yrmv svve
kirejdzkkvu kyiflxy fli dzezjkvi wfi kyv tfetliivetv fw kyv Dvoztre
Xfmviedvek, slk, rckyflxy lixvu kyvivkf, ef rtkzfe yrj pvk svve yru fe kyv
jlsavtk, efi yrj rep rejnvi svve xzmve nyzty nflcu rlkyfizqv r wrmfirscv
tfetcljzfe ze kyv wlkliv.

Kyv uvtivv fw Jvgkvdsvi, 1843, ze ivcrkzfe kf kyv ivkrzc kiruv, kyv fiuvi
wfi kyv voglcjzfe fw wfivzxevij, reu kyrk fw r dfiv ivtvek urkv ze ivxriu
kf grjjgfikj--rcc nyzty riv tfejzuvivu rj ze mzfcrkzfe fw kyv kivrkp fw
rdzkp reu tfddvitv svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj--yrmv cvu kf r tfiivjgfeuvetv
fw tfejzuvirscv cvexky svknvve kyv dzezjkvi wfi wfivzxe ivcrkzfej reu fli
ivgivjvekrkzmvj rk Dvoztf, slk nzkyflk rep jrkzjwrtkfip ivjlck. Kyvp ivdrze
jkzcc lerualjkvu, reu drep reu jvizflj zetfemvezvetvj yrmv rcivrup ivjlckvu
kf fli tzkzqvej ze tfejvhlvetv fw kyvd.

Hlvjkzfej xifnzex flk fw kyv rtk fw uzjridzex r sfup fw Kvore kiffgj leuvi
kyv tfddreu fw Drafi Jezmvcp sp re fwwztvi ze kyv jvimztv fw kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj, rtkzex leuvi kyv fiuvij fw fli Xfmviedvek, reu kyv wfitzscv vekip
zekf kyv tljkfd-yfljv rk Sipricpj Creuzex, fe Ivu Izmvi, sp tvikrze
tzkzqvej fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, reu krbzex rnrp kyvivwifd kyv xffuj jvzqvu
sp kyv tfccvtkfi fw kyv tljkfdj rj wfiwvzkvu leuvi kyv crnj fw Kvorj, yrmv
svve rualjkvu jf wri rj kyv gfnvij fw kyv Vovtlkzmv vokveu. Kyv
tfiivjgfeuvetv svknvve kyv knf Xfmviedvekj ze ivwvivetv kf sfky jlsavtkj
nzcc sv wfleu rdfexjk kyv rttfdgrepzex uftldvekj. Zk tfekrzej r wlcc
jkrkvdvek fw rcc kyv wrtkj reu tzitldjkretvj, nzky kyv mzvnj krbve fe sfky
jzuvj reu kyv gizetzgcvj fe nyzty kyv hlvjkzfej yrmv svve rualjkvu. Zk
ivdrzej wfi Tfexivjj kf drbv kyv evtvjjrip rggifgizrkzfe kf triip kyv
riirexvdvek zekf vwwvtk, nyzty Z ivjgvtkwlccp ivtfddveu.

Kyv xivrkcp zdgifmvu tfeuzkzfe fw kyv Kivrjlip rwwfiuj r jlsavtk wfi
xvevirc tfexirklcrkzfe. Kyv grircpjzj nyzty yru wrccve fe kiruv reu
tfddvitv, reu nyzty jlsavtkvu kyv Xfmviedvek kf kyv evtvjjzkp fw ivjfikzex
kf cfrej reu kyv zjjlv fw Kivrjlip efkvj kf r crixv rdflek, yrj grjjvu
rnrp, reu rwkvi kyv grpdvek fw lgnriu fw $7,000,000 fe rttflek fw kyv
zekvivjk, reu ze ivuvdgkzfe fw dfiv kyre $5,000,000 fw kyv glsczt uvsk
nyzty wrccj ulv fe kyv 1jk fw Arelrip evok, reu jvkkzex rgrik lgnriu fw
$2,000,000 wfi kyv grpdvek fw flkjkreuzex Kivrjlip efkvj reu dvvkzex re
zejkrccdvek fw kyv uvskj fw kyv tfigfirkv tzkzvj fw kyv Uzjkiztk fw
Tfcldszr, re vjkzdrkvu jligclj fw lgnriu fw $7,000,000 fmvi reu rsfmv kyv
vozjkzex rggifgizrkzfej nzcc ivdrze ze kyv Kivrjlip rk kyv tcfjv fw kyv
wzjtrc pvri. Jyflcu kyv Kivrjlip efkvj tfekzelv flkjkreuzex rj yvivkfwfiv,
kyrk jligclj nzcc sv tfejzuvirscp rlxdvekvu. Rckyflxy rcc zekvivjk yrj
tvrjvu lgfe kyvd reu kyv Xfmviedvek yrj zemzkvu kyvzi ivklie kf kyv
Kivrjlip, pvk kyvp ivdrze flkjkreuzex, rwwfiuzex xivrk wrtzczkzvj kf
tfddvitv, reu vjkrsczjyzex kyv wrtk kyrk leuvi r nvcc-ivxlcrkvu jpjkvd fw
wzeretv kyv Xfmviedvek yrj ivjflitvj nzkyze zkjvcw nyzty iveuvi zk
zeuvgveuvek ze kzdv fw evvu, efk fecp fw gizmrkv cfrej, slk rcjf fw sreb
wrtzczkzvj.

Kyv fecp ivdrzezex jlsavtk fw ivxivk zj kyrk kyv ivdrzezex jkftbj fw kyv
Xfmviedvek uf efk wrcc ulv rk re vriczvi urp, jzetv kyvzi ivuvdgkzfe nflcu
sv vekzivcp nzkyze zkj tfekifc. Rj zk zj, zk drp sv nvcc nfikyp kyv
tfejzuvirkzfe fw Tfexivjj nyvkyvi kyv crn vjkrsczjyzex kyv jzebzex wleu
(leuvi kyv fgvirkzfe fw nyzty kyv uvskj fw kyv Ivmfclkzfe reu crjk nri nzky
Xivrk Sizkrze nviv kf r xivrk vokvek vokzexlzjyvu) jyflcu efk, nzky gifgvi
dfuzwztrkzfej, jf rj kf givmvek re rttldlcrkzfe fw jligcljvj, reu czdzkvu
ze rdflek kf r jgvtzwzt jld, sv ivvertkvu. Jlty gifmzjzfe, nyzty nflcu
rlkyfizqv kyv Xfmviedvek kf xf zekf kyv dribvk wfi r glityrjv fw zkj fne
jkftb fe wrzi kvidj, nflcu jvimv kf drzekrze zkj tivuzk rk kyv yzxyvjk
gfzek reu givmvek kf r xivrk vokvek kyfjv wcltklrkzfej ze kyv giztv fw zkj
jvtlizkzvj nyzty dzxyk leuvi fkyvi tzitldjkretvj rwwvtk zkj tivuzk. Ef
rggivyvejzfe fw kyzj jfik zj rk kyzj dfdvek vekvikrzevu, jzetv kyv jkftbj
fw kyv Xfmviedvek, nyzty slk knf pvrij rxf nviv fwwvivu wfi jrcv kf
trgzkrczjkj rk yfdv reu rsifru rk r uvgivtzrkzfe, reu tflcu wzeu ef
glityrjvij, riv efn xivrkcp rsfmv gri ze kyv yreuj fw kyv yfcuvij; slk r
nzjv reu giluvek wfivtrjk rudfezjyvj lj kf gcrtv svpfeu kyv ivrty fw
tfekzexvetp kyv glsczt tivuzk.

Zk dljk rcjf sv r drkkvi fw ledzexcvu xirkzwztrkzfe kyrk leuvi kyv vozjkzex
wzeretzrc jpjkvd (ivjkzex lgfe kyv rtk fw 1789 reu kyv ivjfclkzfe fw 1816)
kyv tliivetp fw kyv tflekip yrj rkkrzevu r jkrkv fw gviwvtk jfleuevjj; reu
kyv irkvj fw votyrexv svknvve uzwwvivek grikj fw kyv Lezfe, nyzty ze 1841
uvefkvu sp kyvzi vefidflj rdflek kyv xivrk uvgivtzrkzfe reu, ze wrtk,
nfikycvjjevjj fw kyv tliivetp ze dfjk fw kyv Jkrkvj, riv efn ivultvu kf
czkkcv dfiv kyre kyv dviv vogvejv fw kirejgfikzex jgvtzv wifd gcrtv kf
gcrtv reu kyv izjb zetzuvek kf kyv fgvirkzfe. Ze r evn tflekip czbv kyrk fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nyviv jf drep zeultvdvekj riv yvcu flk wfi jgvtlcrkzfe,
kyv uvgfjzkfizvj fw kyv jligclj ivmvelv, tfejzjkzex fw srebj fw rep
uvjtizgkzfe, nyve zk ivrtyvj rep tfejzuvirscv rdflek, ivhlziv kyv tcfjvjk
mzxzcretv fe kyv grik fw kyv Xfmviedvek. Rcc srebzex zejkzklkzfej, leuvi
nyrkvmvi uvefdzerkzfe kyvp drp grjj, riv xfmvievu sp re rcdfjk votcljzmv
ivxriu kf kyv zekvivjk fw kyv jkftbyfcuvij. Kyrk zekvivjk tfejzjkj ze kyv
rlxdvekrkzfe fw gifwzkj ze kyv wfid fw uzmzuveuj, reu r crixv jligclj
ivmvelv zekiljkvu kf kyvzi tljkfup zj slk kff rgk kf cvru kf votvjjzmv
cfrej reu kf vokirmrxrekcp crixv zjjlvj fw grgvi. Rj r evtvjjrip
tfejvhlvetv giztvj riv efdzerccp zetivrjvu reu kyv jgvtlcrkzmv drezr mvip
jffe jvzqvj lgfe kyv glsczt dzeu. R wztkzkzflj jkrkv fw gifjgvizkp wfi r
jvrjfe vozjkj, reu, ze kyv crexlrxv fw kyv urp, dfevp svtfdvj gcvekp.
Tfekirtkj riv vekvivu zekf sp zeuzmzulrcj ivjkzex fe kyzj lejlsjkrekzrc
jkrkv fw kyzexj, slk kyv uvcljzfe jgvvuzcp grjjvj rnrp reu kyv tflekip zj
fmviile nzky re zeuvskvuevjj jf nvzxykp rj kf fmvinyvcd drep reu kf mzjzk
vmvip uvgrikdvek fw zeuljkip nzky xivrk reu ilzeflj vdsriirjjdvek. Kyv
xivrkvjk mzxzcretv svtfdvj evtvjjrip fe kyv grik fw Xfmviedvek kf xlriu
rxrzejk kyzj jkrkv fw kyzexj. Kyv uvgfjzkfizvj dljk sv xzmve uzjkzetkcp kf
leuvijkreu kyrk kyv wrmfij fw kyv Xfmviedvek nzcc sv rckfxvkyvi nzkyuirne,
fi jlsjkrekzrccp uzdzezjyvu, zw zkj ivmvelvj jyrcc sv ivxriuvu rj ruuzkzfej
kf kyvzi srebzex trgzkrc fi rj kyv wfleurkzfe fw re vecrixvu tzitlcrkzfe.

Kyv Xfmviedvek, kyiflxy zkj ivmvelv, yrj rk rcc kzdvj re zdgfikrek grik kf
gviwfid ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyv tliivetp, reu zk xivrkcp uvgveuj lgfe zkj
mzxzcretv reu triv nyvkyvi kyv tflekip sv zemfcmvu ze vdsriirjjdvekj
jzdzcri kf kyfjv nyzty zk yrj yru ivtvekcp kf vetflekvi, fi, rzuvu sp kyv
rtkzfe fw kyv Kivrjlip, jyrcc sv givjvimvu ze r jfleu reu yvrckyp
tfeuzkzfe.

Kyv urexvij kf sv xlriuvu rxrzejk riv xivrkcp rlxdvekvu sp kff crixv r
jligclj fw ivmvelv. Nyve kyrk jligclj xivrkcp votvvuj ze rdflek nyrk jyrcc
sv ivhlzivu sp r nzjv reu giluvek wfivtrjk kf dvvk lewfivjvve
tfekzexvetzvj, kyv Cvxzjcrkliv zkjvcw drp tfdv kf sv jvzqvu nzky r
uzjgfjzkzfe kf zeulcxv ze vokirmrxrek rggifgizrkzfej kf fsavtkj drep fw
nyzty drp, reu dfjk gifsrscp nflcu, sv wfleu kf tfewcztk nzky kyv
Tfejkzklkzfe. R wretzvu vogvuzvetp zj vcvmrkvu rsfmv tfejkzklkzferc
rlkyfizkp, reu r ivtbcvjj reu nrjkvwlc vokirmrxretv slk kff tvikrzecp
wfccfnj.

Kyv zdgfikrek gfnvi fw krorkzfe, nyzty nyve vovitzjvu ze zkj dfjk
ivjkiztkvu wfid zj r slikyve fe crsfi reu gifultkzfe, zj ivjfikvu kf leuvi
mrizflj givkvokj wfi gligfjvj yrmzex ef rwwzezkp kf kyv dfkzmvj nyzty
uztkrkvu zkj xirek, reu kyv vokirmrxretv fw Xfmviedvek jkzdlcrkvj
zeuzmzulrc vokirmrxretv lekzc kyv jgzizk fw r nzcu reu zcc-ivxlcrkvu
jgvtlcrkzfe zemfcmvj fev reu rcc ze zkj lewfiklerkv ivjlckj. Ze mzvn fw
jlty wrkrc tfejvhlvetvj, zk drp sv crzu ufne rj re rozfd ifleuvu ze dfirc
reu gfczkztrc kilky kyrk ef xivrkvi krovj jyflcu sv zdgfjvu kyre riv
evtvjjrip wfi re vtfefdztrc rudzezjkirkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek, reu kyrk
nyrkvmvi vozjkj svpfeu jyflcu sv ivultvu fi dfuzwzvu. Kyzj uftkizev ufvj ze
ef nrp tfewcztk nzky kyv vovitzjv fw r jfleu uzjtizdzerkzfe ze kyv
jvcvtkzfe fw kyv rikztcvj kf sv krovu, nyzty r ulv ivxriu kf kyv glsczt
nvrc nflcu rk rcc kzdvj jlxxvjk kf kyv cvxzjcrkzmv dzeu. Zk cvrmvj kyv
irexv fw jvcvtkzfe leuvwzevu; reu jlty jvcvtkzfe jyflcu rcnrpj sv druv nzky
re vpv kf kyv xivrk zekvivjkj fw kyv tflekip. Tfdgfjvu rj zj kyv Lezfe fw
jvgrirkv reu zeuvgveuvek Jkrkvj, r grkizfkzt Cvxzjcrkliv nzcc efk wrzc ze
tfejlckzex kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv grikj kf rufgk jlty tflijv rj nzcc sv svjk
trctlcrkvu kf rumretv kyv yridfep fw kyv nyfcv, reu kylj zejliv kyrk
gvidrevetp ze kyv gfcztp fw kyv Xfmviedvek nzkyflk nyzty rcc vwwfikj kf
rumretv kyv glsczt gifjgvizkp riv mrze reu wilzkcvjj.

Kyzj xivrk reu mzkrccp zdgfikrek krjb ivjkj nzky Tfexivjj, reu kyv
Vovtlkzmv tre uf ef dfiv kyre ivtfddveu kyv xvevirc gizetzgcvj nyzty jyflcu
xfmvie ze zkj vovtlkzfe.

Z ivwvi pfl kf kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri wfi re voyzszkzfe fw kyv
tfeuzkzfe fw kyv Ridp, reu ivtfddveu kf pfl rj nvcc nfikyp pfli svjk
tfejzuvirkzfe drep fw kyv jlxxvjkzfej zk tfekrzej. Kyv Jvtivkrip ze ef
uvxivv vorxxvirkvj kyv xivrk zdgfikretv fw givjjzex wfinriu nzkyflk uvcrp
ze kyv nfib fw vivtkzex reu wzezjyzex kyv wfikzwztrkzfej kf nyzty yv
grikztlcricp rccluvj. Dlty yrj svve ufev kfnriu gcrtzex fli tzkzvj reu
ifrujkvruj ze r jkrkv fw jvtlizkp rxrzejk kyv yrqriuj fw yfjkzcv rkkrtb
nzkyze kyv crjk wfli pvrij; slk tfejzuvizex kyv evn vcvdvekj nyzty yrmv
svve fw crkv pvrij vdgcfpvu ze kyv gifgvcczex fw jyzgj reu kyv wfidzurscv
zdgcvdvekj fw uvjkiltkzfe nyzty yrmv svve siflxyk zekf jvimztv, nv tre efk
sv kff rtkzmv fi mzxzcrek ze givgrizex reu gviwvtkzex kyv dvrej fw uvwvejv.
Z ivwvi pfl rcjf kf yzj ivgfik wfi r wlcc jkrkvdvek fw kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv
Zeuzre kizsvj nzkyze fli alizjuztkzfe. Kyv Vovtlkzmv yrj rsrkvu ef vwwfik
ze triipzex zekf vwwvtk kyv nvcc-vjkrsczjyvu gfcztp fw kyv Xfmviedvek nyzty
tfekvdgcrkvj r ivdfmrc fw rcc kyv kizsvj ivjzuzex nzkyze kyv czdzkj fw kyv
jvmvirc Jkrkvj svpfeu kyfjv czdzkj, reu zk zj efn verscvu kf tfexirklcrkv
kyv tflekip rk kyv gifjgvtk fw re vricp tfejlddrkzfe fw kyzj fsavtk. Drep
fw kyv kizsvj yrmv rcivrup druv xivrk gifxivjj ze kyv rikj fw tzmzczqvu
czwv, reu kyiflxy kyv fgvirkzfe fw kyv jtyffcj vjkrsczjyvu rdfex kyvd,
rzuvu sp kyv vwwfikj fw kyv gzflj dve fw mrizflj ivczxzflj uvefdzerkzfej
nyf uvmfkv kyvdjvcmvj kf kyv krjb fw kyvzi zdgifmvdvek, nv drp wfeucp yfgv
kyrk kyv ivdrzej fw kyv wfidzurscv kizsvj nyzty nviv fetv drjkvij fw kyzj
tflekip nzcc ze kyvzi kirejzkzfe wifd kyv jrmrxv jkrkv kf r tfeuzkzfe fw
ivwzevdvek reu tlckzmrkzfe ruu refkyvi sizxyk kifgyp kf rufie kyv crsfij fw
r nvcc-uzivtkvu gyzcrekyifgp.

Kyv rttfdgrepzex ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp nzcc vogcrze kf pfl
kyv jzklrkzfe fw kyrk sirety fw kyv jvimztv. Kyv givjvek fixrezqrkzfe fw
kyv Uvgrikdvek zdgrikj kf zkj fgvirkzfej xivrk vwwztzvetp, slk Z tfetli
wlccp ze kyv gifgizvkp fw r uzmzjzfe fw kyv Slivrl fw Tfejkiltkzfe,
Vhlzgdvek, Zetivrjv, reu Ivgrzij zekf knf slivrlj. Kyv jlsavtkj rj efn
riirexvu riv zetfexilflj, reu ivhlziv kf r tvikrze vokvek zewfidrkzfe reu
hlrczwztrkzfej rckfxvkyvi uzjjzdzcri.

Kyv fgvirkzfej fw kyv jhlruife fe kyv tfrjk fw Rwiztr yrmv svve tfeultkvu
nzky rcc ulv rkkvekzfe kf kyv fsavtk nyzty cvu kf zkj fizxzerkzfe, reu Z rd
yrggp kf jrp kyrk kyv fwwztvij reu tivnj yrmv veafpvu kyv svjk gfjjzscv
yvrcky leuvi kyv jpjkvd rufgkvu sp kyv fwwztvi ze tfddreu. Zk zj svczvmvu
kyrk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj zj kyv fecp erkzfe nyzty yrj sp zkj crnj jlsavtkvu
kf kyv glezjydvek fw uvrky rj gzirkvj kyfjv nyf drp sv vexrxvu ze kyv jcrmv
kiruv. R jzdzcri vertkdvek fe kyv grik fw fkyvi erkzfej nflcu efk wrzc kf
sv rkkveuvu sp svevwztzrc ivjlckj.

Ze tfejvhlvetv fw kyv uzwwztlckzvj nyzty yrmv vozjkvu ze kyv nrp fw
jvtlizex kzkcvj wfi kyv evtvjjrip xifleuj, fgvirkzfej yrmv efk pvk svve
tfddvetvu kfnriu kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw kyv ermp-priu rk Dvdgyzj. Jf jffe rj
kyv kzkcv zj gviwvtkvu ef wlikyvi uvcrp nzcc sv gvidzkkvu kf zekvimvev. Zk
zj nvcc nfikyp fw pfli tfejzuvirkzfe nyvkyvi Tfexivjj jyflcu efk uzivtk kyv
vjkrsczjydvek fw r ifgvnrcb ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyv tfekvdgcrkvu ermp-priu,
rj r dvrjliv efk fecp fw vtfefdp, slk rj yzxycp ljvwlc reu evtvjjrip. Kyv
fecp vjkrsczjydvek fw kyv jfik efn tfeevtkvu nzky kyv jvimztv zj cftrkvu rk
Sfjkfe, reu kyv rumrekrxvj fw r jzdzcri vjkrsczjydvek tfemvezvek kf kyv
yvdg-xifnzex ivxzfe dljk sv rggrivek kf rcc.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip givjvekj fkyvi drkkvij kf pfli tfejzuvirkzfe fw
re zdgfikrek tyrirtkvi ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyv jvimztv.

Ze ivwviizex pfl kf kyv rttfdgrepzex ivgfik fw kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc zk
rwwfiuj dv tfekzelvu trljv fw xirkzwztrkzfe kf sv rscv kf rumvik kf kyv
wrtk kyrk kyv rwwrzij fw kyv Uvgrikdvek wfi kyv crjk wfli pvrij yrmv svve
jf tfeultkvu rj wifd zkj lerzuvu ivjflitvj kf dvvk zkj crixv vogveuzklivj.
Fe dp tfdzex zekf fwwztv r uvsk fw evricp $500,000 vozjkvu rxrzejk kyv
Uvgrikdvek, nyzty Tfexivjj uzjtyrixvu sp re rggifgizrkzfe wifd kyv
Kivrjlip. Kyv Uvgrikdvek fe kyv 4ky fw Drity evok nzcc sv wfleu, leuvi kyv
drerxvdvek fw zkj givjvek vwwztzvek yvru, wivv fw uvsk fi vdsriirjjdvek,
nyzty tflcu fecp yrmv svve ufev sp kyv fsjvimretv reu girtkztv fw kyv
xivrkvjk mzxzcretv reu vtfefdp. Kyv crnj yrmv tfekvdgcrkvu kyiflxyflk kyrk
kyv Uvgrikdvek jyflcu sv jvcw-jljkrzevu, slk zk drp svtfdv evtvjjrip, nzky
kyv nzjvjk ivxriu kf kyv glsczt zekvivjkj, kf zekifultv rdveudvekj reu
rckvirkzfej ze kyv jpjkvd.

Kyviv zj r jkifex uvjziv drezwvjkvu ze drep hlrikvij jf kf rckvi kyv krizww
fw cvkkvi gfjkrxv rj kf ivultv kyv rdflek fw kro rk givjvek zdgfjvu. Jyflcu
jlty r dvrjliv sv triizvu zekf vwwvtk kf kyv wlcc vokvek uvjzivu, zk tre
efk nvcc sv uflskvu slk kyrk wfi kyv wzijk pvrij fw zkj fgvirkzfe r
uzdzezjyvu ivmvelv nflcu sv tfccvtkvu, kyv jlggcp fw nyzty nflcu
evtvjjrizcp tfejkzklkv r tyrixv lgfe kyv Kivrjlip. Nyvkyvi jlty r ivjlck
nflcu sv uvjzirscv zk nzcc sv wfi Tfexivjj ze zkj nzjufd kf uvkvidzev. Zk
drp ze xvevirc sv rjjvikvu rj kilv kyrk iruztrc rckvirkzfej ze rep jpjkvd
jyflcu irkyvi sv siflxyk rsflk xirulrccp kyre sp jluuve tyrexvj reu sp
glijlzex kyzj giluvek gfcztp ze kyv ivultkzfe fw cvkkvi gfjkrxv kyv
Uvgrikdvek dzxyk jkzcc jljkrze zkjvcw kyiflxy kyv ivmvelv nyzty nflcu
rttilv sp kyv zetivrjv fw cvkkvij. Kyv jkrkv reu tfeuzkzfe fw kyv glsczt
Kivrjlip yrj yvivkfwfiv svve jlty rj kf yrmv givtcluvu kyv ivtfddveurkzfe
fw rep drkvizrc tyrexv. Kyv uzwwztlckzvj lgfe kyzj yvru yrmv, yfnvmvi,
tvrjvu, reu r crixvi uzjtivkzfe zj efn cvwk kf kyv Xfmviedvek.

Z tre efk kff jkifexcp lixv kyv gfcztp fw rlkyfizqzex kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw
r czev fw jkvrdjyzgj ivxlcricp kf gcp svknvve kyzj tflekip reu wfivzxe
gfikj reu lgfe fli fne nrkvij wfi kyv kirejgfikrkzfe fw kyv drzc. Kyv
vordgcv fw kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek zj nvcc nfikyp fw zdzkrkzfe ze kyzj
ivjgvtk. Kyv svczvw zj jkifexcp vekvikrzevu kyrk kyv vdfcldvekj rizjzex
wifd kyv kirejgfikrkzfe fw drzc drkkvi kf wfivzxe tflekizvj nflcu fgvirkv
fw zkjvcw rj re zeultvdvek kf trljv zeuzmzulrc vekvigizjv kf leuvikrbv kyrk
sirety fw kyv krjb, reu kyv ivdlevirkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek nflcu tfejzjk ze
kyv ruuzkzfe ivruzcp druv kf fli jkvrd ermp ze trjv fw vdvixvetp sp kyv
jyzgj jf vdgcfpvu. Jyflcu kyzj jlxxvjkzfe dvvk pfli rggifmrc, kyv gifgizvkp
fw gcrtzex jlty jyzgj leuvi kyv tfddreu fw vogvizvetvu fwwztvij fw kyv Ermp
nzcc efk vjtrgv pfli fsjvimrkzfe. Kyv rggcztrkzfe fw jkvrd kf kyv gligfjvj
fw ermrc nriwriv tfxvekcp ivtfddveuj re vokvejzmv jkvrd drizev rj zdgfikrek
ze vjkzdrkzex kyv uvwvejvj fw kyv tflekip. Wfiklerkvcp kyzj drp sv fskrzevu
sp lj kf r xivrk vokvek nzkyflk zetliizex rep crixv rdflek fw vogveuzkliv.
Jkvrd mvjjvcj kf sv vexrxvu ze kyv kirejgfikrkzfe fw kyv drzcj fe fli
gizetzgrc nrkvi tflijvj, crbvj, reu gfikj fw fli tfrjk tflcu rcjf sv jf
tfejkiltkvu rj kf sv vwwztzvek rj nri mvjjvcj nyve evvuvu, reu nflcu fw
kyvdjvcmvj tfejkzklkv r wfidzurscv wfitv ze fiuvi kf ivgvc rkkrtbj wifd
rsifru.. Nv tre efk sv sczeu kf kyv wrtk kyrk fkyvi erkzfej yrmv rcivrup
ruuvu crixv eldsvij fw jkvrdjyzgj kf kyvzi ermrc ridrdvekj reu kyrk kyzj
evn reu gfnviwlc rxvek zj uvjkzevu kf ivmfclkzfezqv kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv
nficu. Zk svtfdvj kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, kyvivwfiv, cffbzex kf kyvzi jvtlizkp,
kf rufgk r jzdzcri gfcztp, reu kyv gcre jlxxvjkvu nzcc verscv kyvd kf uf jf
rk r jdrcc tfdgrirkzmv tfjk.

Z krbv kyv xivrkvjk gcvrjliv ze svrizex kvjkzdfep kf kyv qvrc reu lekzizex
zeuljkip nyzty yrj tyrirtkvizqvu kyv tfeultk fw kyv dvdsvij fw kyv
Vovtlkzmv Trszevk. Vrty ze yzj rggifgizrkv jgyviv yrj iveuvivu dv kyv dfjk
vwwztzvek rzu ze triipzex fe kyv Xfmviedvek, reu zk nzcc efk, Z kiljk,
rggvri flk fw gcrtv wfi dv kf svri kyzj glsczt kvjkzdfep. Kyv triuzerc
fsavtkj nyzty jyflcu vmvi sv yvcu ze mzvn sp kyfjv zekiljkvu nzky kyv
rudzezjkirkzfe fw glsczt rwwrzij riv izxzucp, reu nzkyflk wrmfi fi
rwwvtkzfe, jf kf zekvigivk kyv erkzferc nzcc vogivjjvu ze kyv crnj rj kyrk
zealjkztv jyflcu sv ufev kf efev, aljkztv kf rcc. Kyzj yrj svve kyv ilcv
lgfe nyzty kyvp yrmv rtkvu, reu kylj zk zj svczvmvu kyrk wvn trjvj, zw rep,
vozjk nyvivze fli wvccfn-tzkzqvej, nyf wifd kzdv kf kzdv yrmv svve uirne kf
kyv jvrk fw Xfmviedvek wfi kyv jvkkcvdvek fw kyvzi kirejrtkzfej nzky kyv
Xfmviedvek, yrmv xfev rnrp uzjjrkzjwzvu. Nyviv kyv kvjkzdfep yrj svve
gviwvtkvu reu nrj vjkvvdvu jrkzjwrtkfip kyvzi tcrzdj yrmv svve gifdgkcp
rluzkvu, reu kyzj ze kyv rsjvetv fw rcc wrmfizkzjd fi grikzrczkp. Kyv
Xfmviedvek nyzty zj efk aljk kf zkj fne gvfgcv tre evzkyvi tcrzd kyvzi
rwwvtkzfe efi kyv ivjgvtk fw kyv nficu. Rk kyv jrdv kzdv, kyv Tcfjvjk
rkkvekzfe yrj svve grzu kf kyfjv drkkvij nyzty ivcrkv dfiv zddvuzrkvcp kf
kyv xivrk tfetviej fw kyv tflekip. Fiuvi reu vwwztzvetp ze vrty sirety fw
kyv glsczt jvimztv yrmv givmrzcvu, rttfdgrezvu sp r jpjkvd fw kyv dfjk
izxzu ivjgfejzszczkp fe kyv grik fw kyv ivtvzmzex reu uzjslijzex rxvekj.
Kyv wrtk, ze zccljkirkzfe fw kyv kilky fw kyzj ivdrib, uvjvimvj kf sv
efkztvu kyrk kyv ivmvelvj fw kyv Xfmviedvek, rdflekzex ze kyv crjk wfli
pvrij kf lgnriu fw $120,000,000, yrmv svve tfccvtkvu reu uzjslijvu kyiflxy
kyv eldviflj xfmviedvekrc rxvekj nzkyflk kyv cfjj sp uvwrlck fw rep rdflek
nfikyp fw jvizflj tfddvekrip.

Kyv rggifgizrkzfej druv sp Tfexivjj wfi kyv zdgifmvdvek fw kyv izmvij fw
kyv Nvjk reu fw kyv yrisfij fe kyv Crbvj riv ze r tflijv fw aluztzflj
vogveuzkliv leuvi jlzkrscv rxvekj, reu riv uvjkzevu, zk zj kf sv yfgvu, kf
ivrczqv rcc kyv svevwzkj uvjzxevu kf sv rttfdgczjyvu sp Tfexivjj. Z tre
efk, yfnvmvi, jlwwztzvekcp zdgivjj lgfe Tfexivjj kyv xivrk zdgfikretv fw
nzkyyfcuzex rggifgizrkzfej wifd zdgifmvdvekj nyzty riv efk rjtvikrzevu sp
givmzflj vordzerkzfe reu jlimvp kf sv evtvjjrip wfi kyv jyvckvi reu
gifkvtkzfe fw kiruv wifd kyv urexvij fw jkfivj reu kvdgvjkj. Nzkyflk kyzj
givtrlkzfe kyv vogveuzklivj riv slk kff rgk kf zeliv kf kyv svevwzk fw
zeuzmzulrcj, nzkyflk ivwvivetv kf kyv fecp tfejzuvirkzfe nyzty tre iveuvi
kyvd tfejkzklkzferc--kyv glsczt zekvivjkj reu kyv xvevirc xffu.

Z tre efk kff vrievjkcp lixv lgfe pfl kyv zekvivjkj fw kyzj Uzjkiztk, fmvi
nyzty sp kyv Tfejkzklkzfe Tfexivjj yrj votcljzmv alizjuztkzfe. Zk nflcu sv
uvvgcp kf sv ivxivkkvu jyflcu kyviv sv rk rep kzdv xifleu kf tfdgcrze fw
evxcvtk fe kyv grik fw r tfddlezkp nyzty, uvkrtyvu rj zk zj wifd kyv
grivekrc triv fw kyv Jkrkvj fw Mzixzezr reu Dripcreu, tre fecp vogvtk rzu
wifd Tfexivjj rj zkj cftrc cvxzjcrkliv. Rdfexjk kyv jlsavtkj nyzty tcrzd
pfli rkkvekzfe zj kyv gifdgk fixrezqrkzfe fw re rjpcld wfi kyv zejrev nyf
drp sv wfleu wifd kzdv kf kzdv jfafliezex nzkyze kyv Uzjkiztk. Jlty tflijv
zj rcjf uvdreuvu sp tfejzuvirkzfej nyzty rggcp kf siretyvj fw kyv glsczt
jvimztv. Wfi kyv evtvjjzkzvj ze kyzj svyrcw Z zemzkv pfli grikztlcri
rkkvekzfe kf kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw kyv Ermp.

Z yrmv kylj, xvekcvdve fw kyv knf Yfljvj fw Tfexivjj, givjvekvu pfl r kilv
reu wrzkywlc gztkliv fw kyv tfeuzkzfe fw glsczt rwwrzij, sfky wfivzxe reu
ufdvjkzt. Kyv nrekj fw kyv glsczt jvimztv riv druv befne kf pfl, reu
drkkvij fw ef fiuzerip zdgfikretv riv lixvu lgfe pfli tfejzuvirkzfe. Jyrcc
Z efk sv gvidzkkvu kf tfexirklcrkv pfl fe kyv yrggp rljgztvj leuvi nyzty
pfl yrmv rjjvdscvu reu rk kyv zdgfikrek tyrexv ze kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyzexj
nyzty yrj fttliivu ze kyv crjk kyivv pvrij? Ulizex kyrk gvizfu hlvjkzfej
nzky wfivzxe gfnvij fw mzkrc zdgfikretv kf kyv gvrtv fw fli tflekip yrmv
svve jvkkcvu reu rualjkvu. R uvjfcrkzex reu nrjkzex nri nzky jrmrxv kizsvj
yrj svve siflxyk kf r tcfjv. Kyv zekvierc kirehlzcczkp fw kyv tflekip,
kyivrkvevu sp rxzkrkzex hlvjkzfej, yrj svve givjvimvu. Kyv tivuzk fw kyv
Xfmviedvek, nyzty yru vogvizvetvu r kvdgfirip vdsriirjjdvek, yrj svve
kyfiflxycp ivjkfivu. Zkj tfwwvij, nyzty wfi r jvrjfe nviv vdgkp, yrmv svve
ivgcvezjyvu. R tliivetp evricp lezwfid ze zkj mrclv yrj krbve kyv gcrtv fw
fev uvgivtzrkvu reu rcdfjk nfikycvjj. Tfddvitv reu drelwrtklivj, nyzty yru
jlwwvivu ze tfddfe nzky vmvip fkyvi zekvivjk, yrmv fetv dfiv ivmzmvu, reu
kyv nyfcv tflekip voyzszkj re rjgvtk fw gifjgvizkp reu yrggzevjj. Kiruv reu
srikvi, ef cfexvi xfmvievu sp r nzcu reu jgvtlcrkzmv drezr, ivjk lgfe r
jfczu reu jlsjkrekzrc wffkzex, reu kyv irgzu xifnky fw fli tzkzvj ze vmvip
uzivtkzfe svjgvrbj dfjk jkifexcp kyv wrmfirscv tzitldjkretvj sp nyzty nv
riv jliifleuvu. Dp yrggzevjj ze kyv ivkzivdvek nyzty jyfikcp rnrzkj dv zj
kyv riuvek yfgv nyzty Z vogvizvetv kyrk kyzj jkrkv fw gifjgvizkp zj evzkyvi
uvtvgkzmv efi uvjkzevu kf sv jyfik czmvu, reu kyrk dvrjlivj nyzty yrmv efk
pvk ivtvzmvu zkj jretkzfe, slk nyzty Z tre efk slk ivxriu rj tcfjvcp
tfeevtkvu nzky kyv yfefi, kyv xcfip, reu jkzcc dfiv vecrixvu gifjgvizkp fw
kyv tflekip, riv uvjkzevu rk re vricp urp kf ivtvzmv kyv rggifmrc fw
Tfexivjj. Leuvi kyvjv tzitldjkretvj reu nzky kyvjv rekztzgrkzfej Z jyrcc
dfjk xcrucp cvrmv kf fkyvij dfiv rscv kyre dpjvcw kyv efscv reu gcvrjzex
krjb fw jljkrzezex kyv glsczt gifjgvizkp. Z jyrcc triip nzky dv zekf
ivkzivdvek kyv xirkzwpzex ivwcvtkzfe kyrk rj dp jfcv fsavtk kyiflxyflk yrj
svve kf rumretv kyv glsczt xffu Z drp efk vekzivcp yrmv wrzcvu ze
rttfdgczjyzex zk; reu kyzj xirkzwztrkzfe zj yvzxykvevu ze ef jdrcc uvxivv
sp kyv wrtk kyrk nyve leuvi r uvvg reu rszuzex jvejv fw ulkp Z yrmv wfleu
dpjvcw tfejkirzevu kf ivjfik kf kyv hlrczwzvu mvkf zk yrj evzkyvi svve
wfccfnvu sp uzjrggifmrc fe kyv grik fw kyv gvfgcv efi nvrbvevu ze rep
uvxivv kyvzi rkkrtydvek kf kyrk xivrk tfejvimrkzmv wvrkliv fw fli
Xfmviedvek.