Kf kyv Jverkv reu Yfljv fw Ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj:

Zw rep gvfgcv vmvi yru trljv kf iveuvi lg kyrebj kf kyv Jlgivdv Svzex wfi
grivekrc triv reu gifkvtkzfe vokveuvu kf kyvd ze rcc kyv kizrcj reu
uzwwztlckzvj kf nyzty kyvp yrmv svve wifd kzdv kf kzdv vogfjvu, nv
tvikrzecp riv kyrk gvfgcv. Wifd kyv wzijk jvkkcvdvek fw fli wfivwrkyvij fe
kyzj tfekzevek, kyiflxy kyv urexvij rkkveurek lgfe kyv fttlgrkzfe fw r
jrmrxv nzcuvievjj, kyiflxy r cfex gvizfu fw tfcfezrc uvgveuvetv, kyiflxy
kyv Nri fw kyv Ivmfclkzfe, ze kyv nzjufd nyzty cvu kf kyv rufgkzfe fw kyv
vozjkzex wfidj fw ivglscztre xfmviedvek, ze kyv yrqriuj zetzuvek kf r nri
jlsjvhlvekcp nrxvu nzky fev fw kyv dfjk gfnviwlc erkzfej fw kyv vriky, ze
kyv zetivrjv fw fli gfglcrkzfe, ze kyv jgivru fw kyv rikj reu jtzvetvj, reu
ze kyv jkivexky reu ulirszczkp tfewviivu fe gfczkztrc zejkzklkzfej
vdrerkzex wifd kyv gvfgcv reu jljkrzevu sp kyvzi nzcc, kyv jlgvizekveuvetv
fw re fmviilczex Gifmzuvetv yrj svve gcrzecp mzjzscv. Rj givgrirkfip,
kyvivwfiv, kf vekvizex fetv dfiv lgfe kyv yzxy ulkzvj fw cvxzjcrkzfe, zk
svtfdvj lj yldscp kf rtbefncvuxv fli uvgveuvetv lgfe Yzd rj fli xlzuv reu
gifkvtkfi reu kf zdgcfiv r tfekzelretv fw Yzj grivekrc nrktywlcevjj fmvi
fli svcfmvu tflekip. Nv yrmv evn trljv wfi kyv vogivjjzfe fw fli xirkzkluv
ze kyv givjvimrkzfe fw kyv yvrcky fw fli wvccfn-tzkzqvej, nzky jfdv grikzrc
reu cftrc votvgkzfej, ulizex kyv grjk jvrjfe, wfi kyv rsleuretv nzky nyzty
kyv vriky yrj pzvcuvu lg zkj wilzkj kf kyv crsfij fw kyv yljsreudre, wfi
kyv ivevnvu rtkzmzkp nyzty yrj svve zdgrikvu kf tfddvitv, wfi kyv ivmzmrc
fw kiruv ze rcc zkj uvgrikdvekj, wfi kyv zetivrjvu ivnriuj rkkveurek fe kyv
vovitzjv fw kyv dvtyrezt rikj, wfi kyv tfekzelvu xifnky fw fli gfglcrkzfe
reu kyv irgzucp ivmzmzex gifjgvizkp fw kyv nyfcv tflekip. Z jyrcc sv
gvidzkkvu kf votyrexv tfexirklcrkzfej nzky pfl, xvekcvdve fw kyv knf Yfljvj
fw Tfexivjj, fe kyvjv rljgztzflj tzitldjkretvj, reu kf rjjliv pfl ze
rumretv fw dp ivrup uzjgfjzkzfe kf tfetli nzky pfl ze kyv rufgkzfe fw rcc
jlty dvrjlivj rj jyrcc sv trctlcrkvu kf zetivrjv kyv yrggzevjj fw fli
tfejkzklvekj reu kf rumretv kyv xcfip fw fli tfddfe tflekip.

Jzetv kyv crjk ruafliedvek fw Tfexivjj kyv Vovtlkzmv yrj ivcrovu ef vwwfik
kf iveuvi zeuvjkiltkzscv kyv ivcrkzfej fw rdzkp nyzty jf yrggzcp vozjk
svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu fkyvi tflekizvj. Kyv kivrkp crkvcp tfetcluvu
nzky Xivrk Sizkrze yrj kveuvu xivrkcp kf zetivrjv kyv xffu leuvijkreuzex
nyzty r ivtzgiftzkp fw zekvivjkj zj trctlcrkvu kf vetflirxv, reu zk zj dfjk
riuvekcp kf sv yfgvu kyrk efkyzex drp kirejgziv kf zekviilgk kyv ivcrkzfej
fw rdzkp nyzty zk zj jf fsmzfljcp kyv gfcztp fw sfky erkzfej kf tlckzmrkv.
R hlvjkzfe fw dlty zdgfikretv jkzcc ivdrzej kf sv rualjkvu svknvve kyvd.
Kyv kviizkfizrc czdzkj fw kyv knf tflekizvj ivcrkzfe kf nyrk zj tfddfecp
befne rj kyv Fivxfe Kviizkfip jkzcc ivdrze ze uzjglkv. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj
nflcu sv rk rcc kzdvj zeuzjgfjvu kf rxxireuzqv zkjvcw rk kyv vogvejv fw rep
fkyvi erkzfe; slk nyzcv kyvp nflcu sv ivjkirzevu sp gizetzgcvj fw yfefi,
nyzty jyflcu xfmvie kyv tfeultk fw erkzfej rj nvcc rj kyrk fw zeuzmzulrcj,
wifd jvkkzex lg r uvdreu wfi kviizkfip nyzty ufvj efk svcfex kf kyvd, kyvp
nflcu rj lenzcczexcp jvek kf r jliiveuvi fw kyvzi izxykj. Rwkvi kyv dfjk
izxzu reu, rj wri rj girtkztrscv, leszrjvu vordzerkzfe fw kyv jlsavtk, kyv
Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv rcnrpj tfekveuvu kyrk kyvzi izxykj rggvikrze kf kyv
vekziv ivxzfe fw tflekip cpzex fe kyv Grtzwzt reu vdsirtvu nzkyze 42 
reu 54  40' fw efiky crkzkluv. Kyzj tcrzd svzex tfekifmvikvu sp Xivrk
Sizkrze, kyfjv nyf yrmv givtvuvu kyv givjvek Vovtlkzmv--rtklrkvu, ef uflsk,
sp re vrievjk uvjziv kf rualjk kyv drkkvi lgfe kvidj dlklrccp jrkzjwrtkfip
kf sfky tflekizvj--yrmv trljvu kf sv jlsdzkkvu kf kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek
gifgfjzkzfej wfi jvkkcvdvek reu wzerc rualjkdvek, nyzty, yfnvmvi, yrmv efk
gifmvu yvivkfwfiv rttvgkrscv kf zk. Fli dzezjkvi rk Cfeufe yrj, leuvi
zejkiltkzfej, rxrze siflxyk kyv jlsavtk kf kyv tfejzuvirkzfe fw kyrk
Xfmviedvek, reu nyzcv efkyzex nzcc sv ufev kf tfdgifdzjv kyv izxykj fi
yfefi fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, vmvip gifgvi vogvuzvek nzcc sv ivjfikvu kf ze
fiuvi kf sizex kyv evxfkzrkzfe efn ze kyv gifxivjj fw ivjldgkzfe kf r
jgvvup reu yrggp kvidzerkzfe. Ze kyv dvrekzdv zk zj gifgvi kf ivdrib kyrk
drep fw fli tzkzqvej riv vzkyvi rcivrup vjkrsczjyvu ze kyv Kviizkfip fi riv
fe kyvzi nrp kyzkyvi wfi kyv gligfjv fw wfidzex gvidrevek jvkkcvdvekj,
nyzcv fkyvij riv givgrizex kf wfccfn; reu ze mzvn fw kyvjv wrtkj Z dljk
ivgvrk kyv ivtfddveurkzfe tfekrzevu ze givmzflj dvjjrxvj wfi kyv
vjkrsczjydvek fw dzczkrip gfjkj rk jlty gcrtvj fe kyv czev fw kirmvc rj
nzcc wliezjy jvtlizkp reu gifkvtkzfe kf fli yriup rumveklivij rxrzejk
yfjkzcv kizsvj fw Zeuzrej zeyrszkzex kyfjv vokvejzmv ivxzfej. Fli crnj
jyflcu rcjf wfccfn kyvd, jf dfuzwzvu rj kyv tzitldjkretvj fw kyv trjv drp
jvvd kf ivhlziv. Leuvi kyv zewclvetv fw fli wivv jpjkvd fw xfmviedvek evn
ivglscztj riv uvjkzevu kf jgizex lg rk ef uzjkrek urp fe kyv jyfivj fw kyv
Grtzwzt jzdzcri ze gfcztp reu ze wvvczex kf kyfjv vozjkzex fe kyzj jzuv fw
kyv Iftbp Dflekrzej, reu xzmzex r nzuvi reu dfiv vokvejzmv jgivru kf kyv
gizetzgcvj fw tzmzc reu ivczxzflj czsvikp.

Z rd yrggp kf zewfid pfl kyrk kyv trjvj nyzty yrmv wifd kzdv kf kzdv rizjve
fw kyv uvkvekzfe fw Rdviztre mvjjvcj sp Sizkzjy tilzjvij fe kyv tfrjk fw
Rwiztr leuvi givkvejv fw svzex vexrxvu ze kyv jcrmv kiruv yrmv svve gcrtvu
ze r wrzi kirze fw rualjkdvek. Ze kyv trjv fw kyv Nzcczrd reu Wiretzj wlcc
jrkzjwrtkzfe nzcc sv rccfnvu. Ze kyv trjvj fw kyv Kpxizj reu Jvrdvn kyv
Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek rudzkj kyrk jrkzjwrtkzfe zj ulv. Ze kyv trjv fw kyv
Afevj kyv jld rttilzex wifd kyv jrcv fw kyrk mvjjvc reu trixf nzcc sv grzu
kf kyv fnevij, nyzcv Z tre efk slk wcrkkvi dpjvcw kyrk wlcc zeuvdezwztrkzfe
nzcc sv rccfnvu wfi rcc urdrxvj jljkrzevu sp kyv uvkvekzfe fw kyv mvjjvc;
reu ze kyv trjv fw kyv Uflxcrj Yvi Dravjkp'j Xfmviedvek yrj vogivjjvu zkj
uvkvidzerkzfe kf drbv zeuvdezwztrkzfe. Jkifex yfgvj riv kyvivwfiv
vekvikrzevu kyrk dfjk, zw efk rcc, fw kyvjv trjvj nzcc sv jgvvuzcp
rualjkvu. Ef evn trjvj yrmv rizjve jzetv kyv irkzwztrkzfe fw kyv kivrkp fw
Nrjyzexkfe, reu zk zj tfewzuvekcp rekztzgrkvu kyrk kyv jcrmv kiruv, leuvi
kyv fgvirkzfe fw kyv vzxyky rikztcv fw kyrk kivrkp, nzcc sv rckfxvkyvi
jlggivjjvu.

Kyv fttrjzferc zekviilgkzfe vogvizvetvu sp fli wvccfn-tzkzqvej vexrxvu ze
kyv wzjyvizvj fe kyv evzxysfizex tfrjk fw Efmr Jtfkzr yrj efk wrzcvu kf
tcrzd kyv rkkvekzfe fw kyv Vovtlkzmv. Ivgivjvekrkzfej lgfe kyzj jlsavtk
yrmv svve druv, slk rj pvk ef uvwzezkzmv rejnvi kf kyfjv ivgivjvekrkzfej
yrj svve ivtvzmvu wifd kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek.

Knf fkyvi jlsavtkj fw tfdgrirkzmvcp dzefi zdgfikretv, slk evmvikyvcvjj fw
kff dlty tfejvhlvetv kf sv evxcvtkvu, ivdrze jkzcc kf sv rualjkvu svknvve
kyv knf tflekizvj. Sp kyv kivrkp svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu Xivrk
Sizkrze fw Alcp, 1815, zk zj gifmzuvu kyrk ef yzxyvi ulkzvj jyrcc sv cvmzvu
ze vzkyvi tflekip fe rikztcvj zdgfikvu wifd kyv fkyvi kyre fe kyv jrdv
rikztcvj zdgfikvu wifd rep fkyvi gcrtv. Ze 1836 iflxy iztv sp rtk fw
Griczrdvek nrj rudzkkvu wifd kyv tfrjk fw Rwiztr zekf Xivrk Sizkrze fe kyv
grpdvek fw r ulkp fw 1 gveep r hlrikvi, nyzcv kyv jrdv rikztcv wifd rcc
fkyvi tflekizvj, zetcluzex kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, nrj jlsavtkvu kf kyv grpdvek
fw r ulkp fw 20 jyzcczexj r hlrikvi. Fli dzezjkvi rk Cfeufe yrj wifd kzdv
kf kzdv siflxyk kyzj jlsavtk kf kyv rkkvekzfe fw kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek,
slk jf wri nzkyflk jlttvjj. Yv zj zejkiltkvu kf ivevn yzj ivgivjvekrkzfej
lgfe zk.

Jfdv pvrij jzetv r tcrzd nrj givwviivu rxrzejk kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek fe
kyv grik fw tvikrze Rdviztre dvityrekj wfi kyv ivklie fw vogfik ulkzvj grzu
sp kyvd fe jyzgdvekj fw nffcve xffuj kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj rwkvi kyv ulkp fe
jzdzcri rikztcvj vogfikvu kf fkyvi tflekizvj yru svve ivgvrcvu, reu
tfejvhlvekcp ze tfekirmvekzfe fw kyv tfddvitzrc tfemvekzfe svknvve kyv knf
erkzfej jvtlizex kf lj vhlrczkp ze jlty trjvj. Kyv gizetzgcv fe nyzty kyv
tcrzd ivjkj yrj cfex jzetv svve mziklrccp rudzkkvu sp Xivrk Sizkrze, slk
fsjkrtcvj kf r jvkkcvdvek yrmv wifd kzdv kf kzdv svve zekvigfjvu, jf kyrk r
crixv gfikzfe fw kyv rdflek tcrzdvu yrj efk pvk svve ivwleuvu. Fli dzezjkvi
zj efn vexrxvu ze kyv gifjvtlkzfe fw kyv tcrzd, reu Z tre efk slk gvijlruv
dpjvcw kyrk kyv Sizkzjy Xfmviedvek nzcc ef cfexvi uvcrp zkj rualjkdvek.

Z rd yrggp kf sv rscv kf jrp kyrk efkyzex yrj fttliivu kf uzjklis ze rep
uvxivv kyv ivcrkzfej fw rdzkp nyzty vozjk svknvve kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu
Wiretv, Rljkizr, reu Iljjzr, rj nvcc rj nzky kyv fkyvi gfnvij fw Vlifgv,
jzetv kyv ruafliedvek fw Tfexivjj. Jgrze yrj svve rxzkrkvu nzky zekvierc
tfemlcjzfej wfi drep pvrij, wifd kyv vwwvtkj fw nyzty, zk zj yfgvu, jyv zj
uvjkzevu jgvvuzcp kf ivtfmvi, nyve, leuvi r dfiv czsvirc jpjkvd fw
tfddvitzrc gfcztp fe yvi grik, fli kiruv nzky yvi drp rxrze wzcc zkj fcu
reu, jf wri rj yvi tfekzevekrc gfjjvjjzfej riv tfetvievu, zkj rcdfjk
wfijrbve tyreevcj, kyvivsp ruuzex kf kyv dlklrc gifjgvizkp fw kyv knf
tflekizvj.

Kyv Xvidrezt Rjjftzrkzfe fw Tljkfdj reu Tfddvitv, nyzty jzetv zkj
vjkrsczjydvek ze 1833 yrj svve jkvruzcp xifnzex ze gfnvi reu zdgfikretv,
reu tfejzjkj rk kyzj kzdv fw dfiv kyre knvekp Xvidre Jkrkvj, reu vdsirtvj r
gfglcrkzfe fw 27,000,000 gvfgcv lezkvu wfi rcc wziv gligfjvj fw tfddvitzrc
zekvitflijv nzky vrty fkyvi reu nzky wfivzxe jkrkvj, fwwvij kf kyv crkkvi
kyv dfjk mrclrscv votyrexvj fe gizetzgcvj dfiv czsvirc kyre riv fwwvivu ze
kyv wzjtrc jpjkvd fw rep fkyvi Vlifgvre gfnvi. Wifd zkj fizxze kyv
zdgfikretv fw kyv Xvidre lezfe yrj evmvi svve cfjk jzxyk fw sp kyv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj. Kyv zeuljkip, dfirczkp, reu fkyvi mrclrscv hlrczkzvj fw kyv Xvidre
erkzfe yrmv rcnrpj svve nvcc befne reu rggivtzrkvu. Fe kyzj jlsavtk Z
zemzkv kyv rkkvekzfe fw Tfexivjj kf kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw Jkrkv,
wifd nyzty zk nzcc sv jvve kyrk nyzcv fli tfkkfe zj rudzkkvu wivv fw ulkp
reu kyv ulkp fe iztv yrj svve dlty ivultvu (nyzty yrj rcivrup cvu kf r
xivrkcp zetivrjvu tfejldgkzfe), r jkifex uzjgfjzkzfe yrj svve ivtvekcp
vmzetvu sp kyrk xivrk sfup kf ivultv, lgfe tvikrze tfeuzkzfej, kyvzi
givjvek ulkp lgfe kfsrttf. Kyzj svzex kyv wzijk zekzdrkzfe fw r tfetvjjzfe
fe kyzj zekvivjkzex jlsavtk vmvi druv sp rep Vlifgvre gfnvi, Z tre efk slk
ivxriu zk rj nvcc trctlcrkvu kf ivdfmv kyv fecp zdgvuzdvek nyzty yrj jf wri
vozjkvu kf kyv dfjk czsvirc tfddvitzrc zekvitflijv svknvve lj reu kyvd. Ze
kyzj mzvn fli dzezjkvi rk Svicze, nyf yrj yvivkfwfiv zeuljkizfljcp glijlvu
kyv jlsavtk, yrj svve zejkiltkvu kf vekvi lgfe kyv evxfkzrkzfe fw r
tfddvitzrc kivrkp, nyzty, nyzcv zk nzcc fgve evn rumrekrxvj kf kyv
rxiztlcklirc zekvivjkj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu r dfiv wivv reu vogreuvu
wzvcu wfi tfddvitzrc fgvirkzfej, nzcc rwwvtk zealizfljcp ef vozjkzex
zekvivjk fw kyv Lezfe. Jyflcu kyv evxfkzrkzfe sv tifnevu nzky jlttvjj, zkj
ivjlckj nzcc sv tfddleztrkvu kf sfky Yfljvj fw Tfexivjj.

Z tfddleztrkv yvivnzky tvikrze uzjgrktyvj ivtvzmvu wifd fli dzezjkvi rk
Dvoztf, reu rcjf r tfiivjgfeuvetv nyzty yrj ivtvekcp fttliivu svknvve kyv
vemfp wifd kyrk Ivglsczt reu kyv Jvtivkrip fw Jkrkv. Zk dljk slk sv
ivxriuvu rj efk r czkkcv vokirfiuzerip kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek fw Dvoztf, ze
rekztzgrkzfe fw r glsczt uzjtljjzfe (nyzty zk yrj svve gcvrjvu kf zewvi
wifd evnjgrgvi glscztrkzfej rj czbvcp kf krbv gcrtv ze Tfexivjj, ivcrkzex
kf kyv reevorkzfe fw Kvorj kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj), jyflcu yrmv jf wri
rekztzgrkvu kyv ivjlck fw jlty uzjtljjzfe rj kf yrmv reefletvu zkj
uvkvidzerkzfe kf mzjzk rep jlty rekztzgrkvu uvtzjzfe sp r wfidrc
uvtcrirkzfe fw nri rxrzejk kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Zw uvjzxevu kf givmvek
Tfexivjj wifd zekifultzex kyrk hlvjkzfe rj r wzk jlsavtk wfi zkj trcd
uvczsvirkzfe reu wzerc aluxdvek, kyv Vovtlkzmv yrj ef ivrjfe kf uflsk kyrk
zk nzcc vekzivcp wrzc fw zkj fsavtk. Kyv ivgivjvekrkzmvj fw r sirmv reu
grkizfkzt gvfgcv nzcc jlwwvi ef rggivyvejzfe fw wlkliv tfejvhlvetvj kf
vdsriirjj kyvd ze kyv tflijv fw kyvzi gifgfjvu uvczsvirkzfej, efi nzcc kyv
vovtlkzmv uvgrikdvek fw kyv Xfmviedvek wrzc wfi rep jlty trljv kf uzjtyrixv
zkj nyfcv ulkp kf kyv tflekip.

Kyv nri nyzty yrj vozjkvu wfi jf cfex r kzdv svknvve Dvoztf reu Kvorj yrj
jzetv kyv srkkcv fw Jre Artzekf tfejzjkvu wfi kyv dfjk grik fw givurkfip
zetlijzfej, nyzty, nyzcv kyvp yrmv svve rkkveuvu nzky dlty fw jlwwvizex kf
zeuzmzulrcj reu yrmv bvgk kyv sfiuvij fw kyv knf tflekizvj ze r jkrkv fw
tfejkrek rcrid, yrmv wrzcvu kf rggifrty kf rep uvwzezkzmv ivjlck. Dvoztf
yrj wzkkvu flk ef wfidzurscv ridrdvek sp creu fi sp jvr wfi kyv jlsalxrkzfe
fw Kvorj. Vzxyk pvrij yrmv efn vcrgjvu jzetv Kvorj uvtcrivu yvi
zeuvgveuvetv fw Dvoztf, reu ulizex kyrk kzdv jyv yrj svve ivtfxezqvu rj r
jfmvivzxe gfnvi sp jvmvirc fw kyv gizetzgrc tzmzczqvu jkrkvj. Dvoztf,
evmvikyvcvjj, gvijvmvivj ze yvi gcrej fw ivtfehlvjk, reu ivwljvj kf
ivtfxezqv yvi zeuvgveuvetv. Kyv givurkfip zetlijzfej kf nyzty Z yrmv
rccluvu yrmv svve rkkveuvu ze fev zejkretv nzky kyv sivrbzex lg fw kyv
tflikj fw aljkztv, sp kyv jvzqzex lgfe kyv gvijfej fw kyv aluxvj, alip, reu
fwwztvij fw kyv tflik reu uirxxzex kyvd rcfex nzky leridvu, reu kyvivwfiv
efetfdsrkrek, tzkzqvej zekf r tilvc reu fggivjjzmv sfeurxv, kylj cvrmzex
tizdv kf xf leglezjyvu reu zddfirczkp kf grjj leivgifmvu. R sfiuvi nriwriv
zj vmvidfiv kf sv uvgivtrkvu, reu fmvi jlty r nri rj yrj vozjkvu wfi jf
drep pvrij svknvve kyvjv knf Jkrkvj yldrezkp yrj yru xivrk trljv kf crdvek.
Efi zj jlty r tfeuzkzfe fw kyzexj kf sv uvgcfivu fecp svtrljv fw kyv
zeuzmzulrc jlwwvizex rkkveurek lgfe zk. Kyv vwwvtkj riv wri dfiv vokvejzmv.
Kyv Tivrkfi fw kyv Lezmvijv yrj xzmve dre kyv vriky wfi yzj ivjkzex gcrtv
reu zkj wilzkj wfi yzj jlsjzjkvetv. Nyrkvmvi, kyvivwfiv, jyrcc drbv kyv
wzijk fi rep grik fw zk r jtvev fw uvjfcrkzfe rwwvtkj zealizfljcp yzj
yvizkrxv reu drp sv ivxriuvu rj r xvevirc trcrdzkp. Nrij drp jfdvkzdvj sv
evtvjjrip, slk rcc erkzfej yrmv r tfddfe zekvivjk ze sizexzex kyvd jgvvuzcp
kf r tcfjv. Kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv re zddvuzrkv zekvivjk ze jvvzex re veu
glk kf kyv jkrkv fw yfjkzczkzvj vozjkzex svknvve Dvoztf reu Kvorj. Kyvp riv
fli evzxysfij, fw kyv jrdv tfekzevek, nzky nyfd nv riv efk fecp uvjziflj fw
tlckzmrkzex kyv ivcrkzfej fw rdzkp, slk fw kyv dfjk vokveuvu tfddvitzrc
zekvitflijv, reu kf girtkztv rcc kyv izkvj fw r evzxysfiyffu yfjgzkrczkp.
Fli fne zekvivjkj riv zemfcmvu ze kyv drkkvi, jzetv, yfnvmvi evlkirc drp sv
fli tflijv fw gfcztp, nv tre efk yfgv kf vjtrgv kyv vwwvtkj fw r jgzizk fw
avrcfljp fe kyv grik fw sfky fw kyv gfnvij. Efi tre kyzj Xfmviedvek sv
zeuzwwvivek kf kyv wrtk kyrk r nriwriv jlty rj zj nrxvu svknvve kyfjv knf
erkzfej zj trctlcrkvu kf nvrbve sfky gfnvij reu wzerccp kf iveuvi kyvd--reu
vjgvtzrccp kyv nvrbvi fw kyv knf--kyv jlsavtkj fw zekviwvivetv fe kyv grik
fw jkifexvi reu dfiv gfnviwlc erkzfej, nyf, zekvek fecp fe rumretzex kyvzi
fne gvtlczri mzvnj, drp jffevi fi crkvi rkkvdgk kf sizex rsflk r tfdgczretv
nzky kvidj rj kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyvzi zekvigfjzkzfe rczbv uvifxrkfip kf kyv
erkzfe xirekzex kyvd reu uvkizdvekrc kf kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.
Nv tflcu efk sv vogvtkvu hlzvkcp kf gvidzk rep jlty zekviwvivetv kf fli
uzjrumrekrxv. Tfejzuvizex kyrk Kvorj zj jvgrirkvu wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj sp
r dviv xvfxirgyztrc czev; kyrk yvi kviizkfip, ze kyv fgzezfe fw drep, ufne
kf r crkv gvizfu wfidvu r gfikzfe fw kyv kviizkfip fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj;
kyrk zk zj yfdfxvevflj ze zkj gfglcrkzfe reu glijlzkj nzky ruafzezex
Jkrkvj, drbvj tfekizslkzfej kf kyv tfddvitv fw kyv nficu ze kyv jrdv
rikztcvj nzky kyvd, reu kyrk dfjk fw yvi zeyrszkrekj yrmv svve tzkzqvej fw
kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, jgvrb kyv jrdv crexlrxv, reu czmv leuvi jzdzcri
gfczkztrc zejkzklkzfej nzky flijvcmvj, kyzj Xfmviedvek zj sfleu sp vmvip
tfejzuvirkzfe fw zekvivjk rj nvcc rj fw jpdgrkyp kf jvv kyrk jyv jyrcc sv
cvwk wivv kf rtk, vjgvtzrccp ze ivxriu kf yvi ufdvjkzt rwwrzij, lernvu sp
wfitv reu leivjkirzevu sp kyv gfcztp fi mzvnj fw fkyvi tflekizvj. Ze wlcc
mzvn fw rcc kyvjv tfejzuvirkzfej, kyv Vovtlkzmv yrj efk yvjzkrkvu kf
vogivjj kf kyv Xfmviedvek fw Dvoztf yfn uvvgcp zk uvgivtrkvu r tfekzelretv
fw kyv nri reu yfn reozfljcp zk uvjzivu kf nzkevjj zkj kvidzerkzfe. Z tre
efk slk kyzeb kyrk zk svtfdvj kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, rj kyv fcuvjk fw kyv
Rdviztre Ivglscztj, kf yfcu r crexlrxv kf Dvoztf lgfe kyzj jlsavtk fw re
lerdszxlflj tyrirtkvi. Zk zj kzdv kyrk kyzj nri yru tvrjvu. Kyviv dljk sv r
czdzk kf rcc nrij, reu zw kyv grivek jkrkv rwkvi re vzxyk pvrij' jkilxxcv
yrj wrzcvu kf ivultv kf jlsdzjjzfe r gfikzfe fw zkj jlsavtkj jkreuzex flk
ze ivmfck rxrzejk zk, reu nyf yrmv efk fecp giftcrzdvu kyvdjvcmvj kf sv
zeuvgveuvek, slk yrmv svve ivtfxezqvu rj jlty sp fkyvi gfnvij, jyv flxyk
efk kf vogvtk kyrk fkyvi erkzfej nzcc hlzvkcp cffb fe, kf kyvzi fsmzflj
zealip, lgfe r gifkirtkzfe fw yfjkzczkzvj. Kyvjv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kyivn fww
kyvzi tfcfezrc uvgveuvetv reu vjkrsczjyvu zeuvgveuvek xfmviedvekj, reu
Xivrk Sizkrze, rwkvi yrmzex nrjkvu yvi vevixzvj ze kyv rkkvdgk kf jlsulv
kyvd wfi r cvjj gvizfu kyre Dvoztf yrj rkkvdgkvu kf jlsalxrkv Kvorj, yru
kyv nzjufd reu aljkztv kf rtbefncvuxv kyvzi zeuvgveuvetv, kyvivsp
ivtfxezqzex kyv fsczxrkzfe nyzty ivjkvu fe yvi rj fev fw kyv wrdzcp fw
erkzfej. Re vordgcv kylj jvk sp fev fw kyv gifluvjk rj nvcc rj dfjk
gfnviwlc erkzfej fw kyv vriky zk tflcu ze ef nrp uzjgrirxv Dvoztf kf
zdzkrkv. Nyzcv, kyvivwfiv, kyv Vovtlkzmv nflcu uvgcfiv rep tfcczjzfe nzky
Dvoztf fi rep uzjklisretv fw kyv wizveucp ivcrkzfej nyzty vozjk svknvve kyv
knf tflekizvj, zk tre efk gvidzk kyrk Xfmviedvek kf tfekifc zkj gfcztp,
nyrkvmvi zk drp sv, kfnriu Kvorj, slk nzcc kivrk yvi--rj sp kyv ivtfxezkzfe
fw yvi zeuvgveuvetv kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj yrmv cfex jzetv uvtcrivu kyvp nflcu
uf--rj vekzivcp zeuvgveuvek fw Dvoztf. Kyv yzxy fsczxrkzfej fw glsczt ulkp
drp vewfitv wifd kyv tfejkzklkvu rlkyfizkzvj fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj r gfcztp
nyzty kyv tflijv gvijvmvivu ze sp Dvoztf nzcc yrmv drzecp tfekizslkvu kf
gifultv, reu kyv Vovtlkzmv ze jlty r kflkzex kyvp nzcc nzky tfewzuvetv
kyifn zkjvcw lgfe kyv grkizfkzjd fw kyv gvfgcv kf jljkrze kyv Xfmviedvek ze
zkj tflijv fw rtkzfe.

Dvrjlivj fw re leljlrc tyrirtkvi yrmv ivtvekcp svve rufgkvu sp kyv Dvoztre
Xfmviedvek, trctlcrkvu ze ef jdrcc uvxivv kf rwwvtk kyv kiruv fw fkyvi
erkzfej nzky Dvoztf reu kf fgvirkv zealizfljcp kf kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Rcc
wfivzxevij, sp r uvtivv fw kyv 23u urp fw Jvgkvdsvi, reu rwkvi jzo dfekyj
wifd kyv urp fw zkj gifdlcxrkzfe, riv wfiszuuve kf triip fe kyv sljzevjj fw
jvcczex sp ivkrzc rep xffuj nzkyze kyv tfewzevj fw Dvoztf. Rxrzejk kyzj
uvtivv fli dzezjkvi yrj efk wrzcvu kf ivdfejkirkv.

Kyv kiruv yvivkfwfiv triizvu fe sp fli tzkzqvej nzky Jrekr Wv, ze nyzty
dlty trgzkrc nrj rcivrup zemvjkvu reu nyzty nrj svtfdzex fw urzcp
zetivrjzex zdgfikretv, yrj jluuvecp svve riivjkvu sp r uvtivv fw mziklrc
gifyzszkzfe fe kyv grik fw kyv Dvoztre Xfmviedvek. Nyrkvmvi drp sv kyv
izxyk fw Dvoztf kf gifyzszk rep grikztlcri tflijv fw kiruv kf kyv tzkzqvej
fi jlsavtkj fw wfivzxe gfnvij, kyzj crkv giftvuliv, kf jrp kyv cvrjk fw zk,
nvrij r yrijy reu lewizveucp rjgvtk.

Kyv zejkrccdvekj fe kyv tcrzdj ivtvekcp jvkkcvu sp kyv tfemvekzfe nzky
Dvoztf yrmv svve gletklrccp grzu rj kyvp yrmv wrccve ulv, reu fli dzezjkvi
zj vexrxvu ze lixzex kyv vjkrsczjydvek fw r evn tfddzjjzfe ze glijlretv fw
kyv tfemvekzfe wfi kyv jvkkcvdvek fw lerualjkvu tcrzdj.

Nzky kyv fkyvi Rdviztre Jkrkvj fli ivcrkzfej fw rdzkp reu xffu nzcc yrmv
ivdrzevu lezekviilgkvu. Fli dzezjkvi evri kyv Ivglsczt fw Evn Xirerur yrj
jlttvvuvu ze vwwvtkzex re rualjkdvek fw kyv tcrzd lgfe kyrk Xfmviedvek wfi
kyv jtyffevi Sp Tyretv, nyzty yru svve gveuzex wfi drep pvrij. Kyv tcrzd
wfi kyv sizx Dfiizj, nyzty yru zkj fizxze ulizex kyv vozjkvetv fw kyv
Ivglsczt fw Tfcfdszr, reu zeuvdezwztrkzfe wfi nyzty jzetv kyv uzjjfclkzfe
fw kyrk Ivglsczt yrj uvmfcmvu lgfe zkj jvmvirc dvdsvij, nzcc sv lixvu nzky
ivevnvu qvrc.

Z yrmv dlty gcvrjliv ze jrpzex kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek fw Sirqzc yrj rualjkvu
kyv tcrzd lgfe kyrk Xfmviedvek ze kyv trjv fw kyv jtyffevi Afye J. Sipre,
reu kyrk jrexlzev yfgvj riv vekvikrzevu kyrk kyv jrdv jgzizk fw aljkztv
nzcc zewclvetv zkj tfletzcj ze riizmzex rk re vricp uvtzjzfe lgfe kyv
ivdrzezex tcrzdj, kyvivsp ivdfmzex rcc trljv fw uzjjvejzfe svknvve knf
gfnvij nyfjv zekvivjkj riv kf jfdv vokvek zekvinfmve nzky vrty fkyvi.

Fli dzezjkvi rk Tyzcz yrj jlttvvuvu ze zeultzex r ivtfxezkzfe sp kyrk
Xfmviedvek fw kyv rualjkdvek vwwvtkvu sp yzj givuvtvjjfi fw kyv wzijk tcrzd
ze kyv trjv fw kyv Drtvufezre. Kyv wzijk zejkrccdvek yrj svve ivtvzmvu sp
kyv tcrzdrekj ze kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj.

Efkztv fw kyv votyrexv fw irkzwztrkzfej fw kyv kivrkp nzky Gvil, nyzty nzcc
krbv gcrtv rk Czdr, yrj efk pvk ivrtyvu kyzj tflekip, slk zj jyfikcp
vogvtkvu kf sv ivtvzmvu, nyve kyv tcrzdj lgfe kyrk Ivglsczt nzcc uflskcvjj
sv czhlzurkvu reu grzu.

Ze tfejvhlvetv fw r dzjleuvijkreuzex svknvve kyzj Xfmviedvek reu kyrk fw
Slvefj Rpivj, fttliizex jvmvirc pvrij rxf, kyzj Xfmviedvek yrj ivdrzevu
leivgivjvekvu rk kyrk Tflik, nyzcv r dzezjkvi wifd zk yrj svve tfejkrekcp
ivjzuvek yviv. Kyv trljvj fw ziizkrkzfe yrmv ze r xivrk dvrjliv grjjvu
rnrp, reu zk zj ze tfekvdgcrkzfe, ze mzvn fw zdgfikrek zekvivjkj nyzty yrmv
xifne lg ze kyrk tflekip, rk jfdv vricp gvizfu ulizex kyv givjvek jvjjzfe
fw Tfexivjj, nzky kyv tfetliivetv fw kyv Jverkv, kf ivjkfiv uzgcfdrkzt
ivcrkzfej svknvve kyv knf tflekizvj.

Leuvi kyv gifmzjzfej fw re rtk fw Tfexivjj fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe r dzezjkvi
nrj uzjgrktyvu wifd kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj kf Tyzer ze Rlxljk fw kyv givjvek
pvri, nyf, wifd kyv crkvjk rttflekj nv yrmv wifd yzd, nrj rk Jlvq, ze
Vxpgk, fe kyv 25ky fw Jvgkvdsvi crjk, fe yzj iflkv kf Tyzer.

Ze ivxriu kf kyv Zeuzre kizsvj ivjzuzex nzkyze fli alizjuztkzferc czdzkj,
kyv xivrkvjk mzxzcretv fw kyv Xfmviedvek yrj svve vovikvu kf givjvimv kyvd
rk gvrtv rdfex kyvdjvcmvj reu kf zejgziv kyvd nzky wvvczexj fw tfewzuvetv
ze kyv aljkztv fw kyzj Xfmviedvek reu kf tlckzmrkv wizveujyzg nzky kyv
sfiuvi zeyrszkrekj. Kyzj yrj yrggzcp jlttvvuvu kf r xivrk vokvek, slk zk zj
r jlsavtk fw ivxivk kyrk kyvp jlwwvi kyvdjvcmvj ze jfdv zejkretvj kf sv
zdgfjvu lgfe sp rikwlc reu uvjzxezex dve reu kyzj efknzkyjkreuzex rcc
vwwfikj fw kyv Xfmviedvek kf givmvek zk.

Kyv ivtvzgkj zekf kyv Kivrjlip wfi kyv trcveuri pvri 1843, votcljzmv fw
cfrej, nviv czkkcv dfiv kyre $ 18,000,000, reu kyv vogveuzklivj, votcljzmv
fw kyv grpdvekj fe kyv glsczt uvsk, nzcc yrmv svve rsflk $23,000,000. Sp
kyv rtk fw 1842 r evn riirexvdvek fw kyv wzjtrc pvri nrj druv, jf kyrk zk
jyflcu tfddvetv fe kyv 1jk urp fw Alcp ze vrty pvri. Kyv rttflekj reu
vjkzdrkvj wfi kyv tliivek wzjtrc pvri nzcc jyfn kyrk kyv cfrej reu Kivrjlip
efkvj druv reu zjjlvu svwfiv kyv tcfjv fw kyv crjk Tfexivjj kf dvvk kyv
rekztzgrkvu uvwztzvetp yrmv efk svve vekzivcp ruvhlrkv. Rckyflxy fe kyv 1jk
fw Ftkfsvi crjk kyviv nrj r srcretv ze kyv Kivrjlip, ze tfejvhlvetv fw kyv
gifmzjzfej kylj druv, fw $3,914,082.77, pvk kyv rggifgizrkzfej rcivrup druv
sp Tfexivjj nzcc rsjfis kyrk srcretv reu cvrmv r gifsrscv uvwztzvetp fw
$2,000,000 rk kyv tcfjv fw kyv givjvek wzjtrc pvri. Kyviv riv flkjkreuzex
Kivrjlip efkvj kf rsflk kyv rdflek fw $4,600,000, reu jyflcu kyvp sv
ivklievu lgfe kyv Kivrjlip ulizex kyv wzjtrc pvri kyvp nzcc ivhlziv
gifmzjzfe wfi kyvzi ivuvdgkzfe. Z uf efk, yfnvmvi, ivxriu kyzj rj gifsrscv,
jzetv kyvp yrmv fsmzfljcp vekvivu zekf kyv tliivetp fw kyv tflekip reu nzcc
tfekzelv kf wfid r gfikzfe fw zk zw kyv jpjkvd efn rufgkvu sv tfekzelvu.
Kyv cfre fw 1841, rdflekzex kf $5,672,976.88, wrccj ulv fe kyv 1jk urp fw
Arelrip, 1845, reu dljk sv gifmzuvu wfi fi gfjkgfevu sp r evn cfre; reu
lecvjj kyv ivjflitvj fw ivmvelv jyflcu sv drkvizrccp zetivrjvu sp pfl kyviv
nzcc sv r gifsrscv uvwztzvetp wfi kyv jvimztv fw kyv wzjtrc pvri veuzex
Alev 30, 1845, fw lgnriu fw $4,000,000.

Kyv uvcljzfe zetzuvek kf re vefidfljcp votvjjzmv grgvi tzitlcrkzfe, nyzty
xrmv r wztkzkzflj mrclv kf vmvipkyzex reu jkzdlcrkvu rumvekliv reu
jgvtlcrkzfe kf re vokirmrxrek vokvek, yrj svve yrggzcp jlttvvuvu sp kyv
jlsjkzklkzfe fw kyv givtzflj dvkrcj reu grgvi gifdgkcp ivuvvdrscv ze
jgvtzv; reu kylj wrcjv mrclvj yrmv uzjrggvrivu reu r jfleuvi tfeuzkzfe fw
kyzexj yrj svve zekifultvu. Kyzj kirejzkzfe, rckyflxy zekzdrkvcp tfeevtkvu
nzky kyv gifjgvizkp fw kyv tflekip, yrj evmvikyvcvjj svve rkkveuvu nzky
dlty vdsriirjjdvek kf kyv Xfmviedvek ze zkj wzeretzrc tfetviej. Jf cfex rj
kyv wfivzxe zdgfikvij tflcu ivtvzmv grpdvek wfi kyvzi trixfvj ze r tliivetp
fw xivrkcp cvjj mrclv kyre kyrk ze Vlifgv, slk wlccp rmrzcrscv yviv ze kyv
glityrjv fw fli rxiztlcklirc gifultkzfej (kyvzi gifwzkj svzex zddvrjlirscp
rlxdvekvu sp kyv fgvirkzfe), kyv jyzgdvekj nviv crixv reu kyv ivmvelvj fw
kyv Xfmviedvek svtrdv jlgvirsleurek. Slk kyv tyrexv ze kyv tyrirtkvi fw kyv
tzitlcrkzfe wifd r efdzerc reu rggrivekcp ivrc mrclv ze kyv wzijk jkrxv fw
zkj vozjkvetv kf re fsmzfljcp uvgivtzrkvu mrclv ze zkj jvtfeu, jf kyrk zk
ef cfexvi rejnvivu kyv gligfjvj fw votyrexv fi srikvi, reu zkj lckzdrkv
jlsjkzklkzfe sp r jfleu dvkrcczt reu grgvi tzitlcrkzfe tfdszevu, yrj svve
rkkveuvu sp uzdzezjyvu zdgfikrkzfej reu r tfejvhlvek wrcczex fww ze kyv
ivmvelv. Kyzj yrj zeultvu Tfexivjj, wifd 1837, kf ivjfik kf kyv vogvuzvek
fw zjjlzex Kivrjlip efkvj, reu wzerccp fw wleuzex kyvd, ze fiuvi kf jlggcp
uvwztzvetzvj. Z tre efk, yfnvmvi, nzkyyfcu kyv ivdrib kyrk zk zj ze ef nrp
tfdgrkzscv nzky kyv uzxezkp fw kyv Xfmviedvek kyrk r glsczt uvsk jyflcu sv
tivrkvu ze kzdv fw gvrtv kf dvvk kyv tliivek vogvejvj fw kyv Xfmviedvek, fi
kyrk kvdgfirip vogvuzvekj jyflcu sv ivjfikvu kf re yfli cfexvi kyre zk zj
gfjjzscv kf rmfzu kyvd. Kyv Vovtlkzmv tre uf ef dfiv kyre rggcp kyv dvrej
nyzty Tfexivjj gcrtvj ze zkj yreuj wfi kyv jlggfik fw Xfmviedvek, reu,
yrggzcp wfi kyv xffu fw kyv tflekip reu wfi kyv givjvimrkzfe fw zkj
czsvikzvj, zk gfjjvjjvj ef gfnvi kf cvmp vortkzfej fe kyv gvfgcv fi kf
wfitv wifd kyvd tfekizslkzfej kf kyv glsczt ivmvelv ze rep wfid. Zk tre
fecp ivtfddveu jlty dvrjlivj rj drp ze zkj fgzezfe sv trccvu wfi sp kyv
nrekj fw kyv glsczt jvimztv kf Tfexivjj, nzky nyfd rcfev ivjkj kyv gfnvi kf
"crp reu tfccvtk krovj, ulkzvj, zdgfjkj, reu votzjvj." Kyzj ulkp yrj lgfe
jvmvirc fttrjzfej yvivkfwfiv svve gviwfidvu. Kyv givjvek tfeuzkzfe fw
kyzexj xzmvj wcrkkvizex gifdzjv kyrk kiruv reu tfddvitv riv irgzucp
ivmzmzex, reu, wfiklerkvcp wfi kyv tflekip, kyv jflitvj fw ivmvelv yrmv
fecp kf sv fgvevu ze fiuvi kf gifmv rsleurek.

Nyzcv nv tre rekztzgrkv ef tfejzuvirscv zetivrjv ze kyv giftvvuj fw kyv
jrcvj fw kyv glsczt creuj, wfi ivrjfej gviwvtkcp fsmzflj kf rcc, wfi
jvmvirc pvrij kf tfdv, pvk kyv glsczt creuj tre efk fkyvinzjv kyre sv
ivxriuvu rj kyv wfleurkzfe fw kyv glsczt tivuzk. Nzky jf crixv r sfup fw
kyv dfjk wvikzcv creuj ze kyv nficu leuvi kyv tfekifc reu rk kyv uzjgfjrc
fw kyzj Xfmviedvek, ef fev tre ivrjferscp uflsk kyv vekziv rszczkp kf dvvk
zkj vexrxvdvekj leuvi vmvip vdvixvetp. Ze jvrjfej fw kizrc reu uzwwztlckp
jzdzcri kf kyfjv kyiflxy nyzty nv riv grjjzex kyv trgzkrczjk drbvj yzj
zemvjkdvekj ze kyv Xfmviedvek tlk jkftbj nzky kyv dfjk rjjlivu tfewzuvetv
fw lckzdrkv ivzdslijvdvek; reu nyrkvmvi drp sv jrzu fw r gvizfu fw xivrk
wzeretzrc gifjgvizkp, jlty rj vozjkvu wfi jfdv pvrij rwkvi 1833, Z jyflcu
ivxriu zk rj jlztzurc ze r jvrjfe fw wzeretzrc vdsriirjjdvek vzkyvi kf
rczverkv kyv creuj kyvdjvcmvj fi kyv giftvvuj rizjzex wifd kyvzi jrcvj. Kyv
wzijk reu grirdflek ulkp fw kyfjv kf nyfd drp sv zekiljkvu kyv
rudzezjkirkzfe fw glsczt rwwrzij zj kf xlriu kyv glsczt tivuzk. Ze
ivvjkrsczjyzex kyv tivuzk fw kyzj tvekirc Xfmviedvek kyv ivruzvjk reu dfjk
fsmzflj dfuv zj krbve kf ivjkfiv kyv tivuzk fw kyv Jkrkvj. Kyv vokivdzkzvj
tre fecp sv druv jfleu sp gifultzex r yvrckyp rtkzfe ze kyv tvekirc
Xfmviedvek, reu kyv yzjkfip fw kyv givjvek urp wlccp vjkrsczjyvj kyv wrtk
kyrk re zetivrjv ze kyv mrclv fw kyv jkftbj fw kyzj Xfmviedvek nzcc ze r
xivrk drafizkp fw zejkretvj sv rkkveuvu sp re zetivrjv ze kyv mrclv fw kyv
jkftbj fw kyv Jkrkvj. Zk jyflcu kyvivwfiv sv r drkkvi fw xvevirc
tfexirklcrkzfe kyrk rdzujk rcc kyv vdsriirjjdvekj rizjzex wifd jliifleuzex
tzitldjkretvj kyv tivuzk fw kyv Xfmviedvek jyflcu yrmv svve jf wlccp
ivjkfivu kyrk zk yrj svve verscvu kf vwwvtk r cfre fw $7,000,000 kf ivuvvd
kyrk rdflek fw Kivrjlip efkvj fe kvidj dfiv wrmfirscv kyre rep kyrk yrmv
svve fwwvivu wfi drep pvrij. Reu kyv 6 gvi tvek jkftb nyzty nrj tivrkvu ze
1842 yrj rumretvu ze kyv yreuj fw kyv yfcuvij evricp 20 gvi tvek rsfmv zkj
gri mrclv. Kyv tfewzuvetv fw kyv gvfgcv ze kyv zekvxizkp fw kyvzi
Xfmviedvek yrj kylj svve jzxerccp drezwvjkvu. Kyvjv fgzezfej ivcrkzmv kf
kyv glsczt creuj uf efk ze rep dreevi tfewcztk nzky kyv fsjvimretv fw kyv
dfjk czsvirc gfcztp kfnriu kyfjv fw fli wvccfn-tzkzqvej nyf givjj wfinriu
zekf kyv nzcuvievjj reu riv kyv gzfevvij ze kyv nfib fw zkj ivtcrdrkzfe. Ze
jvtlizex kf rcc jlty kyvzi izxykj fw givvdgkzfe kyv Xfmviedvek gviwfidj slk
re rtk fw ivkizslkzmv aljkztv wfi jlwwvizexj vetflekvivu reu yriujyzgj
veulivu, reu wzeuj rdgcv ivdlevirkzfe ze kyv tfdwfikj nyzty zkj gfcztp
zejlivj reu kyv yrggzevjj nyzty zk zdgrikj.

Jyflcu r ivmzjzfe fw kyv krizww nzky r mzvn kf ivmvelv svtfdv evtvjjrip ze
kyv vjkzdrkzfe fw Tfexivjj, Z uflsk efk pfl nzcc rggifrty kyv jlsavtk nzky
r aljk reu veczxykvevu ivxriu kf kyv zekvivjkj fw kyv nyfcv Lezfe. Kyv
gizetzgcvj reu mzvnj nyzty Z yrmv yvivkfwfiv yru fttrjzfe kf jlsdzk ivdrze
letyrexvu. Zk tre, yfnvmvi, evmvi sv kff fwkve ivgvrkvu kyrk kyv gifdzevek
zekvivjk fw vmvip zdgfikrek glijlzk fw czwv ivhlzivj wfi jlttvjj gvidrevetp
reu jkrszczkp ze cvxzjcrkzfe. Kyvjv tre fecp sv rkkrzevu sp rufgkzex rj kyv
srjzj fw rtkzfe dfuvirkzfe ze rcc kyzexj, nyzty zj rj zeuzjgvejrscp
evtvjjrip kf jvtliv kyv yridfezflj rtkzfe fw kyv gfczkztrc rj fw kyv rezdrc
jpjkvd. Ze fli gfczkztrc fixrezqrkzfe ef fev jvtkzfe fw kyv tflekip jyflcu
uvjziv kf yrmv zkj jlggfjvu zekvivjkj rumretvu rk kyv jrtizwztv fw rcc
fkyvij, slk lezfe, svzex kyv xivrk zekvivjk, vhlrccp givtzflj kf rcc,
jyflcu sv wfjkvivu reu jljkrzevu sp dlklrc tfetvjjzfej reu kyv tlckzmrkzfe
fw kyrk jgzizk fw tfdgifdzjv wifd nyzty kyv Tfejkzklkzfe zkjvcw giftvvuvu.

Pfl nzcc sv zewfidvu sp kyv ivgfik wifd kyv Kivrjlip Uvgrikdvek fw kyv
dvrjlivj krbve leuvi kyv rtk fw kyv crjk jvjjzfe rlkyfizqzex kyv ivzjjlv fw
Kivrjlip efkvj ze czvl fw kyfjv kyve flkjkreuzex. Kyv jpjkvd rufgkvu ze
glijlretv fw vozjkzex crnj jvvdj nvcc trctlcrkvu kf jrmv kyv tflekip r
crixv rdflek fw zekvivjk, nyzcv zk rwwfiuj tfemvezvetvj reu fsmzrkvj
urexvij reu vogvejv ze kyv kirejdzjjzfe fw wleuj kf uzjslijzex rxvekj. Z
ivwvi pfl rcjf kf kyrk ivgfik wfi kyv dvrej gifgfjvu sp kyv Jvtivkrip kf
zetivrjv kyv ivmvelv, reu grikztlcricp kf kyrk gfikzfe fw zk nyzty ivcrkvj
kf kyv jlsavtk fw kyv nrivyfljzex jpjkvd, nyzty Z vrievjkcp lixvu lgfe
Tfexivjj rk zkj crjk jvjjzfe reu rj kf kyv zdgfikretv fw nyzty dp fgzezfe
yrj leuvixfev ef tyrexv.

Ze mzvn fw kyv uzjfiuvivu tfeuzkzfe fw kyv tliivetp rk kyv kzdv reu kyv
yzxy irkvj fw votyrexv svknvve uzwwvivek grikj fw kyv tflekip, Z wvck zk kf
sv zetldsvek fe dv kf givjvek kf kyv tfejzuvirkzfe fw pfli givuvtvjjfij r
gifgfjzkzfe tfewcztkzex ze ef uvxivv nzky kyv Tfejkzklkzfe fi nzky kyv
izxykj fw kyv Jkrkvj reu yrmzex kyv jretkzfe (efk ze uvkrzc, slk ze
gizetzgcv) fw jfdv fw kyv vdzevek dve nyf yrmv givtvuvu dv ze kyv Vovtlkzmv
fwwztv. Kyrk gifgfjzkzfe tfekvdgcrkvu kyv zjjlzex fw Kivrjlip efkvj fw
uvefdzerkzfej fw efk cvjj kyre $5 efi dfiv kyre $100, kf sv vdgcfpvu ze kyv
grpdvek fw kyv fsczxrkzfej fw kyv Xfmviedvek ze czvl fw xfcu reu jzcmvi rk
kyv fgkzfe fw kyv glsczt tivuzkfi, reu kf re rdflek efk votvvuzex
$15,000,000. Zk nrj gifgfjvu kf drbv kyvd ivtvzmrscv vmvipnyviv reu kf
vjkrsczjy rk mrizflj gfzekj uvgfjzkfizvj fw xfcu reu jzcmvi kf sv yvcu ze
kiljk wfi kyv ivuvdgkzfe fw jlty efkvj, jf rj kf zejliv kyvzi
tfemvikzszczkp zekf jgvtzv. Ef uflsk nrj vekvikrzevu kyrk jlty efkvj nflcu
yrmv drzekrzevu r gri mrclv nzky xfcu reu jzcmvi, kylj wliezjyzex r grgvi
tliivetp fw vhlrc mrclv fmvi kyv Lezfe, kyvivsp dvvkzex kyv aljk
vogvtkrkzfej fw kyv gvfgcv reu wlcwzcczex kyv ulkzvj fw r grivekrc
xfmviedvek. Nyvkyvi kyv uvgfjzkfizvj jyflcu sv gvidzkkvu kf jvcc fi
glityrjv szccj leuvi mvip czdzkvu ivjkiztkzfej, kfxvkyvi nzky rcc zkj fkyvi
uvkrzcj, nrj jlsdzkkvu kf kyv nzjufd fw Tfexivjj reu nrj ivxriuvu rj fw
jvtfeurip zdgfikretv. Z kyflxyk kyve reu kyzeb efn kyrk jlty re riirexvdvek
nflcu yrmv svve rkkveuvu nzky kyv yrggzvjk ivjlckj. Kyv nyfcv drkkvi fw kyv
tliivetp nflcu yrmv svve gcrtvu nyviv sp kyv Tfejkzklkzfe zk nrj uvjzxevu
kf sv gcrtvu--leuvi kyv zddvuzrkv jlgvimzjzfe reu tfekifc fw Tfexivjj. Kyv
rtkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek nflcu yrmv svve zeuvgveuvek fw rcc tfigfirkzfej,
reu kyv jrdv vpv nyzty ivjkj letvrjzexcp fe kyv jgvtzv tliivetp reu xlriuj
zk rxrzejk rulckvirkzfe nflcu rcjf yrmv ivjkvu fe kyv grgvi tliivetp, kf
tfekifc reu ivxlcrkv zkj zjjlvj reu gifkvtk zk rxrzejk uvgivtzrkzfe. Kyv
jrdv ivrjfej nyzty nflcu wfiszu Tfexivjj wifd grikzex nzky kyv gfnvi fmvi
kyv tfzerxv nflcu jvvd kf fgvirkv nzky evricp vhlrc wfitv yz ivxriu kf rep
jlsjkzklkzfe wfi kyv givtzflj dvkrcj ze kyv wfid fw r tzitlcrkzex dvuzld.
Grgvi nyve jlsjkzklkvu wfi jgvtzv tfejkzklkvj r jkreuriu fw mrclv sp nyzty
kyv fgvirkzfej fw jftzvkp riv ivxlcrkvu, reu nyrkjfvmvi trljvj zkj
uvgivtzrkzfe rwwvtkj jftzvkp kf re vokvek evricp, zw efk hlzkv, vhlrc kf
kyv rulckvirkzfe fw kyv tfze. Efi tre Z nzkyyfcu kyv ivdrib kyrk zkj
rumrekrxvj tfekirjkvu nzky r sreb fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj, rgrik wifd kyv wrtk
kyrk r sreb nrj vjkvvdvu rj fsefozflj kf kyv glsczt jvekzdvek rj nvcc fe
kyv jtfiv fw vogvuzvetp rj fw tfejkzklkzferczkp, rggvrivu kf dv kf sv
jkizbzex reu fsmzflj. Kyv ivczvw nyzty r sreb nflcu rwwfiu sp re zjjlv fw
$15,000,000 fw zkj efkvj, aluxzex wifd kyv vogvizvetv fw kyv crkv Lezkvu
Jkrkvj Sreb, nflcu efk yrmv fttliivu ze cvjj kyre wzwkvve pvrij, nyvivrj
leuvi kyv gifgfjvu riirexvdvek kyv ivczvw rizjzex wifd kyv zjjlv fw
$15,000,000 fw Kivrjlip efkvj nflcu yrmv svve tfejlddrkvu ze fev pvri, kylj
wliezjyzex ze fev-wzwkvveky grik fw kyv kzdv ze nyzty r sreb tflcu yrmv
rttfdgczjyvu zk r grgvi dvuzld fw votyrexv vhlrc ze rdflek kf kyv ivrc
nrekj fw kyv tflekip rk gri mrclv nzky xfcu reu jzcmvi. Kyv jrmzex kf kyv
Xfmviedvek nflcu yrmv svve vhlrc kf rcc kyv zekvivjk nyzty zk yrj yru kf
grp fe Kivrjlip efkvj fw givmzflj rj nvcc rj jlsjvhlvek zjjlvj, kyvivsp
ivczvmzex kyv Xfmviedvek reu rk kyv jrdv kzdv rwwfiuzex ivczvw kf kyv
gvfgcv. Leuvi rcc kyv ivjgfejzszczkzvj rkkrtyvu kf kyv jkrkzfe nyzty Z
fttlgp, reu ze ivuvdgkzfe fw r gcvuxv xzmve kf kyv crjk Tfexivjj rk kyv
tcfjv fw zkj wzijk jvjjzfe, Z jlsdzkkvu kyv jlxxvjkzfe kf zkj tfejzuvirkzfe
rk knf tfejvtlkzmv jvjjzfej. Kyv ivtfddveurkzfe, yfnvmvi, dvk nzky ef wrmfi
rk zkj yreuj. Nyzcv Z rd wivv kf rudzk kyrk kyv evtvjjzkzvj fw kyv kzdvj
yrmv jzetv svtfdv xivrkcp rdvczfirkvu reu kyrk kyviv zj xffu ivrjfe kf yfgv
kyrk kyv tflekip zj jrwvcp reu irgzucp vdvixzex wifd kyv uzwwztlckzvj reu
vdsriirjjdvekj nyzty vmvipnyviv jliifleuvu zk ze 1841, pvk Z tre efk slk
kyzeb kyrk zkj ivjkfirkzfe kf r jfleu reu yvrckyp tfeuzkzfe nflcu sv
xivrkcp vogvuzkvu sp r ivjfik kf kyv vogvuzvek ze r dfuzwzvu wfid.

Kyv fgvirkzfej fw kyv Kivrjlip efn ivjk lgfe kyv rtk fw 1789 reu kyv
ivjfclkzfe fw 1816, reu kyfjv crnj yrmv svve jf rudzezjkvivu rj kf gifultv
rj xivrk r hlrekld fw xffu kf kyv tflekip rj kyvzi gifmzjzfej riv trgrscv
fw pzvcuzex. Zw kyviv yru svve rep uzjkzetk vogivjjzfe fw fgzezfe xfzex kf
jyfn kyrk glsczt jvekzdvek zj rmvijv kf kyv gcre, vzkyvi rj yvivkfwfiv
ivtfddveuvu kf Tfexivjj fi ze r dfuzwzvu wfid, nyzcv dp fne fgzezfe ze
ivxriu kf zk nflcu ivdrze letyrexvu Z jyflcu sv mvip wri wifd rxrze
givjvekzex zk kf pfli tfejzuvirkzfe. Kyv Xfmviedvek yrj fizxzerkvu nzky kyv
Jkrkvj reu kyv gvfgcv, wfi kyvzi fne svevwzk reu rumrekrxv, reu zk nflcu sv
jlsmvijzmv fw kyv wfleurkzfe gizetzgcvj fw kyv gfczkztrc vuzwztv nyzty kyvp
yrmv ivrivu kf gvijvmviv ze r dvrjliv nyzty ze kyvzi drkliv aluxdvekj kyvp
yru vzkyvi ivgluzrkvu fi tfeuvdevu. Kyv nzcc fw fli tfejkzklvekj tcvricp
vogivjjvu jyflcu sv ivxriuvu rj kyv czxyk kf xlzuv fli wffkjkvgj, kyv kilv
uzwwvivetv svknvve r dferityztrc fi rizjkftirkztrc xfmviedvek reu r
ivglsczt svzex kyrk ze kyv wzijk kyv nzcc fw kyv wvn givmrzcj fmvi kyv nzcc
fw kyv drep, nyzcv ze kyv crjk kyv nzcc fw kyv drep jyflcu sv rcfev
tfejlckvu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip fw Nri nzcc sizex pfl rthlrzekvu nzky kyv
tfeuzkzfe fw kyrk zdgfikrek sirety fw kyv glsczt jvimztv. Kyv Ridp drp sv
ivxriuvu, ze tfejvhlvetv fw kyv jdrcc eldsvi fw kyv ireb reu wzcv ze vrty
tfdgrep reu ivxzdvek, rj czkkcv dfiv kyre r eltcvlj rifleu nyzty kf irccp
kyv dzczkrip wfitv fw kyv tflekip ze trjv fw nri, reu pvk zkj jvimztvj ze
givjvimzex kyv gvrtv fw kyv wifekzvij riv fw r dfjk zdgfikrek erkliv. Ze
rcc trjvj fw vdvixvetp kyv ivczretv fw kyv tflekip zj gifgvicp gcrtvu ze
kyv dzczkzr fw kyv jvmvirc Jkrkvj, reu zk drp nvcc uvjvimv kyv
tfejzuvirkzfe fw Tfexivjj nyvkyvi r evn reu dfiv gviwvtk fixrezqrkzfe dzxyk
efk sv zekifultvu, cffbzex drzecp kf kyv mfclekvvi tfdgrezvj fw kyv Lezfe
wfi kyv givjvek reu fw vrjp rggcztrkzfe kf kyv xivrk sfup fw kyv dzczkzr ze
kzdv fw nri.

Kyv vogveuzklivj fw kyv Nri Uvgrikdvek yrmv svve tfejzuvirscp ivultvu ze
kyv crjk knf pvrij. Tfekzexvetzvj, yfnvmvi, drp rizjv nyzty nflcu trcc wfi
kyv wzcczex lg fw kyv ivxzdvekj nzky r wlcc tfdgcvdvek fw dve reu drbv zk
mvip uvjzirscv kf ivdflek kyv tfigj fw uirxffej, nyzty sp re rtk fw kyv
crjk Tfexivjj nrj uzivtkvu kf sv uzjjfcmvu.

Z ivwvi pfl kf kyv rttfdgrepzex ivgfik fw kyv Jvtivkrip wfi zewfidrkzfe ze
ivcrkzfe kf kyv Ermp fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj. Nyzcv vmvip vwwfik yrj svve reu
nzcc tfekzelv kf sv druv kf ivkivety rcc jlgviwclzkzvj reu cfg fww rcc
votivjtvetvj nyzty wifd kzdv kf kzdv drp yrmv xifne lg, pvk zk yrj efk svve
ivxriuvu rj nzjv fi giluvek kf ivtfddveu rep drkvizrc tyrexv ze kyv reelrc
rggifgizrkzfej. Kyv zekvivjkj nyzty riv zemfcmvu riv fw kff zdgfikrek r
tyrirtkvi kf cvru kf kyv ivtfddveurkzfe fw rep fkyvi kyre r czsvirc gfcztp.
Ruvhlrkv rggifgizrkzfej flxyk kf sv druv kf verscv kyv Vovtlkzmv kf wzk flk
rcc kyv jyzgj kyrk riv efn ze r tflijv fw slzcuzex fi kyrk ivhlziv ivgrzij
wfi rtkzmv jvimztv ze kyv jyfikvjk gfjjzscv kzdv jyflcu rep vdvixvetp rizjv
nyzty drp ivhlziv zk. Re vwwztzvek ermp, nyzcv zk zj kyv tyvrgvjk dvrej fw
glsczt uvwvejv, veczjkj ze zkj jlggfik kyv wvvczexj fw gizuv reu tfewzuvetv
nyzty sizcczrek uvvuj reu yvifzt mrcfi yrmv yvivkfwfiv jvimvu kf jkivexkyve
reu tfewzid.

Z ivwvi pfl grikztlcricp kf kyrk grik fw kyv Jvtivkrip'j ivgfik nyzty yrj
ivwvivetv kf ivtvek vogvizdvekj ze kyv rggcztrkzfe fw jkvrd reu ze kyv
tfejkiltkzfe fw fli nri jkvrdvij, druv leuvi kyv jlgvizekveuvetv fw
uzjkzexlzjyvu fwwztvij fw kyv Ermp. Ze ruuzkzfe kf fkyvi drezwvjk
zdgifmvdvekj ze kyv tfejkiltkzfe fw kyv jkvrd vexzev reu rggcztrkzfe fw kyv
dfkzmv gfnvi nyzty yrj iveuvivu kyvd dfiv rggifgizrkv kf kyv ljvj fw jyzgj
fw nri, fev fw kyfjv fwwztvij yrj siflxyk zekf ljv r gfnvi nyzty drbvj kyv
jkvrdjyzg dfjk wfidzurscv vzkyvi wfi rkkrtb fi uvwvejv. Z tre efk kff
jkifexcp ivtfddveu kyzj jlsavtk kf pfli tfejzuvirkzfe reu uf efk yvjzkrkv
kf vogivjj dp vekziv tfemztkzfe fw zkj xivrk zdgfikretv.

Z trcc pfli grikztlcri rkkvekzfe rcjf kf kyrk gfikzfe fw kyv Jvtivkrip'j
ivgfik nyzty yrj ivwvivetv kf kyv rtk fw kyv crkv jvjjzfe fw Tfexivjj nyzty
gifyzszkvu kyv kirejwvi fw rep srcretv fw rggifgizrkzfe wifd fkyvi yvruj fw
rggifgizrkzfe kf kyrk wfi slzcuzex, vhlzgdvek, reu ivgrzi. Kyv ivgvrc fw
kyrk gifyzszkzfe nzcc verscv kyv Uvgrikdvek kf xzmv ivevnvu vdgcfpdvek kf r
crixv tcrjj fw nfibdve nyf yrmv svve evtvjjrizcp uzjtyrixvu ze tfejvhlvetv
fw kyv nrek fw dvrej kf grp kyvd--r tzitldjkretv rkkveuvu, vjgvtzrccp rk
kyzj jvrjfe fw kyv pvri, nzky dlty gizmrkzfe reu jlwwvizex.

Zk xzmvj dv xivrk grze kf reefletv kf pfl kyv cfjj fw kyv jkvrdjyzg kyv
Dzjjfliz sp wziv ze kyv Srp fw Xzsirckri, nyviv jyv yru jkfggvu kf ivevn
yvi jlggczvj fw tfrc fe yvi mfprxv kf Rcvoreuizr, nzky Di. Tljyzex, kyv
Rdviztre dzezjkvi kf Tyzer, fe sfriu. Kyviv zj xifleu wfi yzxy tfddveurkzfe
fw kyv fwwztvij reu dve wfi kyv tffcevjj reu zekivgzuzkp reu gviwvtk
jlsdzjjzfe kf uzjtzgczev vmzetvu leuvi kyv dfjk kipzex tzitldjkretvj.
Jliifleuvu sp r irxzex wziv, nyzty kyv lkdfjk vovikzfej tflcu efk jlsulv,
reu nyzty kyivrkvevu dfdvekrizcp kyv vogcfjzfe fw yvi nvcc-jlggczvu
drxrqzevj, kyv fwwztvij voyzszkvu ef jzxej fw wvri reu kyv dve fsvpvu vmvip
fiuvi nzky rcrtizkp. Efi nrj jyv rsreufevu lekzc kyv crjk xcvrd fw yfgv fw
jrmzex yvi yru vogzivu. Zk zj nvcc nfikyp fw pfli tfejzuvirkzfe nyvkyvi kyv
cfjjvj jljkrzevu sp kyv fwwztvij reu tivn ze kyzj lewfiklerkv rwwrzi jyflcu
efk sv ivzdslijvu kf kyvd.

Z tre efk krbv cvrmv fw kyzj grzewlc jlsavtk nzkyflk rumvikzex kf kyv rzu
iveuvivu lgfe kyv fttrjzfe sp kyv Sizkzjy rlkyfizkzvj rk Xzsirckri reu kyv
tfddreuvi, fwwztvij, reu tivn fw kyv Sizkzjy jyzg fw kyv czev kyv Drcrsri,
nyzty nrj cpzex rk kyv kzdv ze kyv srp. Vmvipkyzex kyrk xvevifjzkp fi
yldrezkp tflcu uztkrkv nrj gifdgkcp gviwfidvu. Zk zj sp jlty rtkj fw xffu
nzcc sp fev kf refkyvi fw kyv wrdzcp fw erkzfej kyrk wirkvierc wvvczexj riv
eflizjyvu reu kyv scvjjzexj fw gvidrevek gvrtv jvtlivu.

Kyv ivgfik fw kyv Gfjkdrjkvi-Xvevirc nzcc sizex pfl rthlrzekvu nzky kyv
fgvirkzfej fw kyrk Uvgrikdvek ulizex kyv grjk pvri, reu nzcc jlxxvjk kf pfl
jlty dfuzwztrkzfej fw kyv vozjkzex crnj rj ze pfli fgzezfe kyv vozxvetzvj
fw kyv glsczt jvimztv drp ivhlziv. Kyv tyrexv nyzty kyv tflekip yrj
leuvixfev fw crkv pvrij ze kyv dfuv fw kirmvc reu kirejgfikrkzfe yrj
rwwfiuvu jf drep wrtzczkzvj wfi kyv kirejdzjjzfe fw drzc drkkvi flk fw kyv
ivxlcri drzc rj kf ivhlziv kyv xivrkvjk mzxzcretv reu tzitldjgvtkzfe ze
fiuvi kf verscv kyv fwwztvi rk kyv yvru fw kyv Uvgrikdvek kf ivjkirze kyv
vogveuzklivj nzkyze kyv zetfdv. Kyviv zj rcjf kff dlty ivrjfe kf wvri kyrk
kyv wirebzex gizmzcvxv yrj ile zekf xivrk rsljv. Kyv Uvgrikdvek,
evmvikyvcvjj, yrj svve tfeultkvu nzky kyv xivrkvjk mzxfi, reu yrj rkkrzevu
rk kyv cvrjk gfjjzscv vogvejv rcc kyv ljvwlc fsavtkj wfi nyzty zk nrj
vjkrsczjyvu.

Ze ivxriu kf rcc kyv Uvgrikdvekj, Z rd hlzkv yrggp ze kyv svczvw kyrk
efkyzex yrj svve cvwk leufev nyzty nrj trccvu wfi sp r kilv jgzizk fw
vtfefdp fi sp r jpjkvd fw rttflekrszczkp izxzucp vewfitvu. Kyzj zj ze jfdv
uvxivv rggrivek wifd kyv wrtk kyrk kyv Xfmviedvek yrj jljkrzevu ef cfjj sp
kyv uvwrlck fw rep fw zkj rxvekj. Ze kyv tfdgcvo, slk rk kyv jrdv kzdv
svrlkzwlc, drtyzevip fw fli jpjkvd fw xfmviedvek, zk zj efk r drkkvi fw
jligizjv kyrk jfdv ivdfkv rxvetp drp yrmv wrzcvu wfi re zejkrek kf wlcwzcc
zkj uvjzivu fwwztv; slk Z wvvc tfewzuvek ze kyv rjjvikzfe kyrk efkyzex yrj
fttliivu kf zekviilgk kyv yridfezflj rtkzfe fw kyv Xfmviedvek zkjvcw, reu
kyrk, nyzcv kyv crnj yrmv svve vovtlkvu nzky vwwztzvetp reu mzxfi, kyv
izxykj evzkyvi fw Jkrkvj efi zeuzmzulrcj yrmv svve kirdgcvu fe fi
uzjivxriuvu.

Ze kyv dvrekzdv kyv tflekip yrj svve jkvruzcp rumretzex ze rcc kyrk
tfekizslkvj kf erkzferc xivrkevjj. Kyv kzuv fw gfglcrkzfe tfekzelvj
lesifbvecp kf wcfn zekf kyv evn Jkrkvj reu Kviizkfizvj, nyviv r ivwlxv zj
wfleu efk fecp wfi fli erkzmv-sfie wvccfn-tzkzqvej, slk wfi vdzxirekj wifd
rcc grikj fw kyv tzmzczqvu nficu, nyf tfdv rdfex lj kf grikrbv fw kyv
scvjjzexj fw fli wivv zejkzklkzfej reu kf rzu sp kyvzi crsfi kf jnvcc kyv
tliivek fw fli nvrcky reu gfnvi.

Zk zj ulv kf vmvip tfejzuvirkzfe fw glsczt gfcztp kyrk kyv crbvj reu izmvij
fw kyv Nvjk jyflcu ivtvzmv rcc jlty rkkvekzfe rk kyv yreuj fw Tfexivjj rj
kyv Tfejkzklkzfe nzcc verscv zk kf svjkfn. Nfibj ze wrmfirscv reu gifgvi
jzklrkzfej fe kyv Crbvj nflcu sv wfleu kf sv rj zeuzjgvejrscp evtvjjrip, ze
trjv fw nri, kf triip fe jrwv reu jlttvjjwlc ermrc fgvirkzfej rj
wfikzwztrkzfej fe kyv Rkcrekzt jvrsfriu. Kyv rggifgizrkzfe druv sp kyv crjk
Tfexivjj wfi kyv zdgifmvdvek fw kyv ermzxrkzfe fw kyv Dzjjzjjzggz Izmvi yrj
svve uzczxvekcp reu vwwztzvekcp rggczvu.

Z tre efk tcfjv kyzj tfddleztrkzfe, xvekcvdve, nzkyflk ivtfddveuzex kf pfli
dfjk wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe kyv zekvivjkj fw kyzj Uzjkiztk. Rggfzekvu sp
kyv Tfejkzklkzfe zkj votcljzmv cvxzjcrkfij, reu wfidzex ze kyzj grikztlcri
kyv fecp refdrcp ze fli jpjkvd fw xfmviedvek--fw kyv cvxzjcrkzmv sfup svzex
vcvtkvu sp fkyvij kyre kyfjv wfi nyfjv rumrekrxv kyvp riv kf cvxzjcrkv--pfl
nzcc wvvc r jlgviruuvu fsczxrkzfe kf cffb nvcc zekf kyvzi tfeuzkzfe reu kf
cvrmv ef trljv wfi tfdgcrzek fi ivxivk. Kyv jvrk fw Xfmviedvek fw fli
rjjftzrkvu ivglscztj tre efk slk sv ivxriuvu rj nfikyp fw pfli grivekrc
triv.

Ze tfeevtkzfe nzky zkj fkyvi zekvivjkj, rj nvcc rj kyfjv fw kyv nyfcv
tflekip, Z ivtfddveu kyrk rk pfli givjvek jvjjzfe pfl rufgk jlty dvrjlivj
ze fiuvi kf triip zekf vwwvtk kyv Jdzkyjfezre svhlvjk rj ze pfli aluxdvek
nzcc sv svjk trctlcrkvu kf tfejlddrkv kyv czsvirc zekvek fw kyv kvjkrkfi.

Nyve, leuvi r uzjgvejrkzfe fw Uzmzev Gifmzuvetv, Z jlttvvuvu kf kyv
givjzuvekzrc fwwztv, kyv jkrkv fw glsczt rwwrzij nrj vdsriirjjzex reu
tizkztrc. Kf ruu kf kyv ziizkrkzfe tfejvhlvek lgfe r cfex-jkreuzex
tfekifmvijp nzky fev fw kyv dfjk gfnviwlc erkzfej fw dfuvie kzdvj,
zemfcmzex efk fecp hlvjkzfej fw sfleurip (nyzty leuvi kyv dfjk wrmfirscv
tzitldjkretvj riv rcnrpj vdsriirjjzex), slk rk kyv jrdv kzdv zdgfikrek reu
yzxy gizetzgcvj fw drizkzdv crn, sfiuvi tfekifmvijzvj svknvve kyv tzkzqvej
reu jlsavtkj fw kyv knf tflekizvj yru vexveuvivu r jkrkv fw wvvczex reu fw
tfeultk nyzty kyivrkvevu kyv dfjk trcrdzkflj tfejvhlvetvj. Kyv yrqriuj
zetzuvek kf kyzj jkrkv fw kyzexj nviv xivrkcp yvzxykvevu sp kyv riivjk reu
zdgizjfedvek fw r jlsavtk fw Xivrk Sizkrze, nyf, rtkzex (rj zk nrj rccvxvu)
rj r grik fw r dzczkrip wfitv, yru rzuvu ze kyv tfddzjjzfe fw re rtk
mzfcrkzmv fw kyv kviizkfizrc alizjuztkzfe fw kyv Lezkvu Jkrkvj reu
zemfcmzex kyv dliuvi fw r tzkzqve, fw kyv Jkrkv fw Evn Pfib. R crixv rdflek
fw tcrzdj rxrzejk kyv Xfmviedvek fw Dvoztf ivdrzevu lerualjkvu reu r nri fw
jvmvirc pvrij' tfekzelretv nzky kyv jrmrxv kizsvj fw Wcfizur jkzcc
givmrzcvu, rkkveuvu nzky kyv uvjfcrkzfe fw r crixv gfikzfe fw kyrk
svrlkzwlc Kviizkfip reu nzky kyv jrtizwztv fw drep mrclrscv czmvj. Kf
zetivrjv kyv vdsriirjjdvekj fw kyv Xfmviedvek, zeuzmzulrc reu Jkrkv tivuzk
yru svve evricp jkiztbve ufne reu tfewzuvetv ze kyv Xvevirc Xfmviedvek nrj
jf dlty zdgrzivu kyrk-cfrej fw r jdrcc rdflek tflcu fecp sv evxfkzrkvu rk r
tfejzuvirscv jrtizwztv. Rj r evtvjjrip tfejvhlvetv fw kyv sczxyk nyzty yru
wrccve fe tfddvitv reu dvtyreztrc zeuljkip, kyv jyzgj fw kyv fev nviv
kyifne flk fw vdgcfpdvek reu kyv fgvirkzfej fw kyv fkyvi yru svve xivrkcp
uzdzezjyvu. Fnzex kf kyv tfeuzkzfe fw kyv tliivetp, votyrexvj svknvve
uzwwvivek grikj fw kyv tflekip yru svtfdv ilzefljcp yzxy reu kiruv yru kf
uvgveu fe r uvgivtzrkvu grgvi tliivetp ze tfeultkzex zkj kirejrtkzfej. Z
jyrcc sv gvidzkkvu kf tfexirklcrkv kyv tflekip kyrk leuvi re fmviilczex
Gifmzuvetv gvrtv nrj givjvimvu nzkyflk r jrtizwztv fw kyv erkzferc yfefi;
kyv nri ze Wcfizur nrj siflxyk kf r jgvvup kvidzerkzfe; r crixv gfikzfe fw
kyv tcrzdj fe Dvoztf yrmv svve wlccp rualuztrkvu reu riv ze r tflijv fw
grpdvek, nyzcv aljkztv yrj svve iveuvivu kf lj ze fkyvi drkkvij sp fkyvi
erkzfej; tfewzuvetv svknvve dre reu dre zj ze r xivrk dvrjliv ivjkfivu reu
kyv tivuzk fw kyzj Xfmviedvek wlccp reu gviwvtkcp ivvjkrsczjyvu; tfddvitv
zj svtfdzex dfiv reu dfiv vokveuvu ze zkj fgvirkzfej reu drelwrtklizex reu
dvtyreztrc zeuljkip fetv dfiv ivrg kyv ivnriuj fw jbzcc reu crsfi yfevjkcp
rggczvu; kyv fgvirkzfej fw kiruv ivjk fe r jfleu tliivetp reu kyv irkvj fw
votyrexv riv ivultvu kf kyvzi cfnvjk rdflek.

Ze kyzj tfeuzkzfe fw kyzexj Z yrmv wvck zk kf sv dp ulkp kf sizex kf pfli
wrmfirscv tfejzuvirkzfe drkkvij fw xivrk zekvivjk ze kyvzi givjvek reu
lckzdrkv ivjlckj; reu kyv fecp uvjziv nyzty Z wvvc ze tfeevtkzfe nzky kyv
wlkliv zj reu nzcc tfekzelv kf sv kf cvrmv kyv tflekip gifjgviflj reu zkj
zejkzklkzfej lezdgrzivu.