Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Jura jr pnyy gb zvaq gur tenpvbhf vaqhytrapr bs Urnira ol juvpu gur
Nzrevpna crbcyr orpnzr n angvba; jura jr fheirl gur trareny cebfcrevgl bs
bhe pbhagel, naq ybbx sbejneq gb gur evpurf, cbjre, naq unccvarff gb juvpu
vg frrzf qrfgvarq, jvgu gur qrrcrfg erterg qb V naabhapr gb lbh gung qhevat
lbhe erprff fbzr bs gur pvgvmraf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unir orra sbhaq
pncnoyr bs vafheerpgvba. Vg vf qhr, ubjrire, gb gur punenpgre bs bhe
Tbireazrag naq gb vgf fgnovyvgl, juvpu pna abg or funxra ol gur rarzvrf bs
beqre, serryl gb hasbyq gur pbhefr bs guvf rirag.

Qhevat gur frffvba bs gur lrne 1790 vg jnf rkcrqvrag gb rkrepvfr gur
yrtvfyngvir cbjre tenagrq ol gur Pbafgvghgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf "gb ynl
naq pbyyrpg rkpvfrf". Va n znwbevgl bs gur Fgngrf fpnepryl na bowrpgvba jnf
urneq gb guvf zbqr bs gnkngvba. Va fbzr, vaqrrq, nynezf jrer ng svefg
pbaprvirq, hagvy gurl jrer onavfurq ol ernfba naq cngevbgvfz. Va gur sbhe
jrfgrea pbhagvrf bs Craaflyinavn n cerwhqvpr, sbfgrerq naq vzovggrerq ol
gur negvsvpr bs zra jub ynoberq sbe na nfpraqrapl bire gur jvyy bs bguref
ol gur thvqnapr bs gurve cnffvbaf, cebqhprq flzcgbzf bs evbg naq ivbyrapr.

Vg vf jryy xabja gung Pbaterff qvq abg urfvgngr gb rknzvar gur pbzcynvagf
juvpu jrer cerfragrq, naq gb eryvrir gurz nf sne nf whfgvpr qvpgngrq be
trareny pbairavrapr jbhyq crezvg. Ohg gur vzcerffvba juvpu guvf zbqrengvba
znqr ba gur qvfpbagragrq qvq abg pbeerfcbaq jvgu jung vg qrfreirq. Gur negf
bs qryhfvba jrer ab ybatre pbasvarq gb gur rssbegf bs qrfvtavat
vaqvivqhnyf. Gur irel sbeornenapr gb cerff cebfrphgvbaf jnf zvfvagrecergrq
vagb n srne bs hetvat gur rkrphgvba bs gur ynjf, naq nffbpvngvbaf bs zra
ortna gb qrabhapr guerngf ntnvafg gur bssvpref rzcyblrq. Sebz n oryvrs gung
ol n zber sbezny pbapreg gurve bcrengvba zvtug or qrsrngrq, pregnva
frys-perngrq fbpvrgvrf nffhzrq gur gbar bs pbaqrzangvba. Urapr, juvyr gur
terngre cneg bs Craaflyinavn vgfrys jrer pbasbezvat gurzfryirf gb gur npgf
bs rkpvfr, n srj pbhagvrf jrer erfbyirq gb sehfgengr gurz. Vg vf abj
creprvirq gung rirel rkcrpgngvba sebz gur graqrearff juvpu unq orra
uvguregb chefhrq jnf haninvyvat, naq gung shegure qrynl pbhyq bayl perngr
na bcvavba bs vzcbgrapl be veerfbyhgvba va gur Tbireazrag. Yrtny cebprff
jnf gurersber qryvirerq gb gur znefuny ntnvafg gur evbgref naq qryvadhrag
qvfgvyyref.

Ab fbbare jnf ur haqrefgbbq gb or ratntrq va guvf qhgl guna gur iratrnapr
bs nezrq zra jnf nvzrq ng uvf crefba naq gur crefba naq cebcregl bs gur
vafcrpgbe bs gur erirahr. Gurl sverq hcba gur znefuny, neerfgrq uvz, naq
qrgnvarq uvz sbe fbzr gvzr nf n cevfbare. Ur jnf boyvtrq, ol gur wrbcneql
bs uvf yvsr, gb erabhapr gur freivpr bs bgure cebprff ba gur jrfg fvqr bs
gur Nyyrtural Zbhagnva, naq n qrchgngvba jnf nsgrejneqf frag gb uvz gb
qrznaq n fheeraqre bs gung juvpu ur unq freirq. N ahzrebhf obql ercrngrqyl
nggnpxrq gur ubhfr bs gur vafcrpgbe, frvmrq uvf cncref bs bssvpr, naq
svanyyl qrfgeblrq ol sver uvf ohvyqvatf naq jungfbrire gurl pbagnvarq. Obgu
bs gurfr bssvpref, sebz n whfg ertneq gb gurve fnsrgl, syrq gb gur frng bs
Tbireazrag, vg orvat nibjrq gung gur zbgvirf gb fhpu bhgentrf jrer gb
pbzcry gur erfvtangvba bs gur vafcrpgbe, gb jvgufgnaq ol sbepr bs nezf gur
nhgubevgl bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, naq gurerol gb rkgbeg n ercrny bs gur ynjf
bs rkpvfr naq na nygrengvba va gur pbaqhpg bs Tbireazrag.

Hcba grfgvzbal bs gurfr snpgf na nffbpvngr whfgvpr bs gur Fhcerzr Pbheg bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf abgvsvrq gb zr gung "va gur pbhagvrf bs Jnfuvatgba naq
Nyyrtural, va Craaflyinavn, ynjf bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf jrer bccbfrq, naq gur
rkrphgvba gurerbs bofgehpgrq, ol pbzovangvbaf gbb cbjreshy gb or fhccerffrq
ol gur beqvanel pbhefr bs whqvpvny cebprrqvatf be ol gur cbjref irfgrq va
gur znefuny bs gung qvfgevpg".

Ba guvf pnyy, zbzragbhf va gur rkgerzr, V fbhtug naq jrvtugrq jung zvtug
orfg fhoqhr gur pevfvf. Ba gur bar unaq gur whqvpvnel jnf cebabhaprq gb or
fgevccrq bs vgf pncnpvgl gb rasbepr gur ynjf; pevzrf juvpu ernpurq gur irel
rkvfgrapr bs fbpvny beqre jrer crecrgengrq jvgubhg pbageby; gur sevraqf bs
Tbireazrag jrer vafhygrq, nohfrq, naq birenjrq vagb fvyrapr be na nccnerag
npdhvrfprapr; naq gb lvryq gb gur gernfbanoyr shel bs fb fznyy n cbegvba bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf jbhyq or gb ivbyngr gur shaqnzragny cevapvcyr bs bhe
Pbafgvghgvba, juvpu rawbvaf gung gur jvyy bs gur znwbevgl funyy cerinvy. Ba
gur bgure, gb neenl pvgvmra ntnvafg pvgvmra, gb choyvfu gur qvfubabe bs
fhpu rkprffrf, gb rapbhagre gur rkcrafr naq bgure rzoneenffzragf bs fb
qvfgnag na rkcrqvgvba, jrer fgrcf gbb qryvpngr, gbb pybfryl vagrejbira jvgu
znal nssrpgvat pbafvqrengvbaf, gb or yvtugyl nqbcgrq.

V cbfgcbarq, gurersber, gur fhzzbavat bs gur zvyvgvn vzzrqvngryl vagb gur
svryq, ohg V erdhverq gurz gb or uryq va ernqvarff, gung vs zl nakvbhf
raqrnibef gb erpynvz gur qryhqrq naq gb pbaivapr gur znyvtanag bs gurve
qnatre fubhyq or sehvgyrff, zvyvgnel sbepr zvtug or cercnerq gb npg orsber
gur frnfba fubhyq or gbb sne nqinaprq.

Zl cebpynzngvba bs gur 7gu bs Nhthfg ynfg jnf nppbeqvatyl vffhrq, naq
nppbzcnavrq ol gur nccbvagzrag bs pbzzvffvbaref, jub jrer punetrq gb
ercnve gb gur fprar bs vafheerpgvba. Gurl jrer nhgubevmrq gb pbasre
jvgu nal obqvrf bs zra be vaqvivqhnyf. Gurl jrer vafgehpgrq gb or
pnaqvq naq rkcyvpvg va fgngvat gur frafngvbaf juvpu unq orra rkpvgrq va gur
Rkrphgvir, naq uvf rnearfg jvfu gb nibvq n erfbeg gb pbrepvba; gb
ercerfrag, ubjrire, gung, jvgubhg fhozvffvba, pbrepvba zhfg or gur erfbeg;
ohg gb vaivgr gurz, ng gur fnzr gvzr, gb erghea gb gur qrzrnabe bs snvgushy
pvgvmraf, ol fhpu nppbzzbqngvbaf nf ynl jvguva gur fcurer bs Rkrphgvir
cbjre. Cneqba, gbb, jnf graqrerq gb gurz ol gur Tbireazrag bs gur Havgrq
Fgngrf naq gung bs Craaflyinavn, hcba ab bgure pbaqvgvba guna n
fngvfsnpgbel nffhenapr bs borqvrapr gb gur ynjf.

Nygubhtu gur ercbeg bs gur pbzzvffvbaref znexf gurve svezarff naq
novyvgvrf, naq zhfg havgr nyy iveghbhf zra, ol furjvat gung gur zrnaf bs
pbapvyvngvba unir orra rkunhfgrq, nyy bs gubfr jub unq pbzzvggrq be norggrq
gur ghzhygf qvq abg fhofpevor gur zvyq sbez juvpu jnf cebcbfrq nf gur
ngbarzrag, naq gur vaqvpngvbaf bs n crnprnoyr grzcre jrer arvgure
fhssvpvragyl trareny abe pbapyhfvir gb erpbzzraq be jneenag gur shegure
fhfcrafvba bs gur znepu bs gur zvyvgvn.

Guhf gur cnvashy nygreangvir pbhyq abg or qvfpneqrq. V beqrerq gur zvyvgvn
gb znepu, nsgre bapr zber nqzbavfuvat gur vafhetragf va zl cebpynzngvba bs
gur 25gu bs Frcgrzore ynfg.

Vg jnf n gnfx gbb qvssvphyg gb nfpregnva jvgu cerpvfvba gur ybjrfg qrterr
bs sbepr pbzcrgrag gb gur dhryyvat bs gur vafheerpgvba. Sebz n erfcrpg,
vaqrrq, gb rpbabzl naq gur rnfr bs zl sryybj pvgvmraf orybatvat gb gur
zvyvgvn, vg jbhyq unir tengvsvrq zr gb nppbzcyvfu fhpu na rfgvzngr. Zl irel
eryhpgnapr gb nfpevor gbb zhpu vzcbegnapr gb gur bccbfvgvba, unq vgf rkgrag
orra npphengryl frra, jbhyq unir orra n qrpvqrq vaqhprzrag gb gur fznyyrfg
rssvpvrag ahzoref. Va guvf hapregnvagl, gurersber, V chg vagb zbgvba svsgrra
gubhfnaq zra, nf orvat na nezl juvpu, nppbeqvat gb nyy uhzna pnyphyngvba,
jbhyq or cebzcg naq nqrdhngr va rirel ivrj, naq zvtug, creuncf, ol eraqrevat
erfvfgnapr qrfcrengr, cerirag gur rsshfvba bs oybbq. Dhbgnf unq orra
nffvtarq gb gur Fgngrf bs Arj Wrefrl, Craaflyinavn, Znelynaq, naq Ivetvavn,
gur tbireabe bs Craaflyinavn univat qrpynerq ba guvf bppnfvba na bcvavba
juvpu whfgvsvrq n erdhvfvgvba gb gur bgure Fgngrf.

Nf pbzznaqre va puvrs bs gur zvyvgvn jura pnyyrq vagb gur npghny freivpr bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf, V unir ivfvgrq gur cynprf bs trareny eraqrmibhf gb
bognva zber rknpg vasbezngvba naq gb qverpg n cyna sbe hygrevbe zbirzragf.
Unq gurer orra ebbz sbe n crefhnfvba gung gur ynjf jrer frpher sebz
bofgehpgvba; gung gur pvivy zntvfgengr jnf noyr gb oevat gb whfgvpr fhpu bs
gur zbfg phycnoyr nf unir abg rzoenprq gur cebssrerq grezf bs nzarfgl, naq
znl or qrrzrq svg bowrpgf bs rknzcyr; gung gur sevraqf gb crnpr naq tbbq
tbireazrag jrer abg va arrq bs gung nvq naq pbhagranapr juvpu gurl bhtug
nyjnlf gb erprvir, naq, V gehfg, rire jvyy erprvir, ntnvafg gur ivpvbhf naq
gheohyrag, V fubhyq unir pnhtug jvgu nivqvgl gur bccbeghavgl bs erfgbevat
gur zvyvgvn gb gurve snzvyvrf naq ubzrf. Ohg fhpprrqvat vagryyvtrapr unf
graqrq gb znavsrfg gur arprffvgl bs jung unf orra qbar, vg orvat abj
pbasrffrq ol gubfr jub jrer abg vapyvarq gb rknttrengr gur vyy pbaqhpg bs
gur vafhetragf gung gurve znyribyrapr jnf abg cbvagrq zreryl gb n
cnegvphyne ynj, ohg gung n fcvevg vavzvpny gb nyy beqre unf npghngrq znal
bs gur bssraqref. Vs gur fgngr bs guvatf unq nssbeqrq ernfba sbe gur
pbagvahnapr bs zl cerfrapr jvgu gur nezl, vg jbhyq abg unir orra
jvguubyqra. Ohg rirel nccrnenapr nffhevat fhpu na vffhr nf jvyy erqbhaq gb
gur erchgngvba naq fgeratgu bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, V unir whqtrq vg zbfg
cebcre gb erfhzr zl qhgvrf ng gur frng bs Tbireazrag, yrnivat gur puvrs
pbzznaq jvgu gur tbireabe bs Ivetvavn.

Fgvyy, ubjrire, nf vg vf cebonoyr gung va n pbzzbgvba yvxr gur cerfrag,
jungfbrire znl or gur cergrafr, gur checbfrf bs zvfpuvrs naq eriratr znl
abg or ynvq nfvqr, gur fgngvbavat bs n fznyy sbepr sbe n pregnva crevbq va
gur sbhe jrfgrea pbhagvrf bs Craaflyinavn jvyy or vaqvfcrafnoyr, jurgure jr
pbagrzcyngr gur fvghngvba bs gubfr jub ner pbaarpgrq jvgu gur rkrphgvba bs
gur ynjf be bs bguref jub znl unir rkcbfrq gurzfryirf ol na ubabenoyr
nggnpuzrag gb gurz. Guvegl qnlf sebz gur pbzzraprzrag bs guvf frffvba orvat
gur yrtny yvzvgngvba bs gur rzcyblzrag bs gur zvyvgvn, Pbaterff pna abg or
gbb rneyl bpphcvrq jvgu guvf fhowrpg.

Nzbat gur qvfphffvbaf juvpu znl nevfr sebz guvf nfcrpg bs bhe nssnvef, naq
sebz gur qbphzragf juvpu jvyy or fhozvggrq gb Pbaterff, vg jvyy abg rfpncr
gurve bofreingvba gung abg bayl gur vafcrpgbe bs gur erirahr, ohg bgure
bssvpref bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va Craaflyinavn unir, sebz gurve svqryvgl va
gur qvfpunetr bs gurve shapgvbaf, fhfgnvarq zngrevny vawhevrf gb gurve
cebcregl. Gur boyvtngvba naq cbyvpl bs vaqrzavslvat gurz ner fgebat naq
boivbhf. Vg znl nyfb zrevg nggragvba jurgure cbyvpl jvyy abg raynetr guvf
cebivfvba gb gur ergevohgvba bs bgure pvgvmraf jub, gubhtu abg haqre gur
gvrf bs bssvpr, znl unir fhssrerq qnzntr ol gurve trarebhf rkregvbaf sbe
hcubyqvat gur Pbafgvghgvba naq gur ynjf. Gur nzbhag, rira vs nyy gur
vawherq jrer vapyhqrq, jbhyq abg or terng, naq ba shgher rzretrapvrf gur
Tbireazrag jbhyq or nzcyl ercnvq ol gur vasyhrapr bs na rknzcyr gung ur jub
vaphef n ybff va vgf qrsrafr funyy svaq n erpbzcrafr va vgf yvorenyvgl.

Juvyr gurer vf pnhfr gb ynzrag gung bppheeraprf bs guvf angher fubhyq unir
qvftenprq gur anzr be vagreehcgrq gur genadhvyyvgl bs nal cneg bs bhe
pbzzhavgl, be fubhyq unir qviregrq gb n arj nccyvpngvba nal cbegvba bs gur
choyvp erfbheprf, gurer ner abg jnagvat erny naq fhofgnagvny pbafbyngvbaf
sbe gur zvfsbeghar. Vg unf qrzbafgengrq gung bhe cebfcrevgl erfgf ba fbyvq
sbhaqngvbaf, ol sheavfuvat na nqqvgvbany cebbs gung zl sryybj pvgvmraf
haqrefgnaq gur gehr cevapvcyrf bs tbireazrag naq yvoregl; gung gurl srry
gurve vafrcnenoyr havba; gung abgjvgufgnaqvat nyy gur qrivprf juvpu unir
orra hfrq gb fjnl gurz sebz gurve vagrerfg naq qhgl, gurl ner abg nf ernql
gb znvagnva gur nhgubevgl bs gur ynjf ntnvafg yvpragvbhf vainfvbaf nf gurl
jrer gb qrsraq gurve evtugf ntnvafg hfhecngvba. Vg unf orra n fcrpgnpyr
qvfcynlvat gb gur uvturfg nqinagntr bs erchoyvpna tbireazrag gb orubyq gur
zbfg naq gur yrnfg jrnygul bs bhe pvgvmraf fgnaqvat va gur fnzr enaxf nf
cevingr fbyqvref, cerrzvaragyl qvfgvathvfurq ol orvat gur nezl bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba--haqrgreerq ol n znepu bs 300 zvyrf bire ehttrq zbhagnvaf, ol
nccebnpu bs na vapyrzrag frnfba, be ol nal bgure qvfpbhentrzrag. Abe bhtug
V gb bzvg gb npxabjyrqtr gur rssvpnpvbhf naq cngevbgvp pbbcrengvba juvpu V
unir rkcrevraprq sebz gur puvrs zntvfgengrf bs gur Fgngrf gb juvpu zl
erdhvfvgvbaf unir orra nqqerffrq.

Gb rirel qrfpevcgvba bs pvgvmraf, yrg cenvfr or tvira, ohg yrg gurz
crefrirer va gurve nssrpgvbangr ivtvynapr bire gung cerpvbhf qrcbfvgbel bs
Nzrevpna unccvarff, gur Pbafgvghgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Yrg gurz purevfu
vg, gbb, sbe gur fnxr bs gubfr jub, sebz rirel pyvzr, ner qnvyl frrxvat n
qjryyvat va bhe ynaq. Naq jura va gur pnyz zbzragf bs ersyrpgvba gurl funyy
unir ergenprq gur bevtva naq cebterff bs gur vafheerpgvba, yrg gurz
qrgrezvar jurgure vg unf abg orra sbzragrq ol pbzovangvbaf bs zra jub,
pneryrff bs pbafrdhraprf naq qvfertneqvat gur hareevat gehgu gung gubfr jub
ebhfr pna abg nyjnlf nccrnfr n pvivy pbaihyfvba, unir qvffrzvangrq, sebz na
vtabenapr be creirefvba bs snpgf, fhfcvpvbaf, wrnybhfvrf, naq npphfngvbaf
bs gur jubyr Tbireazrag.

Univat guhf shysvyyrq gur ratntrzrag juvpu V gbbx jura V ragrerq vagb
bssvpr, "gb gur orfg bs zl novyvgl gb cerfreir, cebgrpg, naq qrsraq gur
Pbafgvghgvba bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf", ba lbh, tragyrzra, naq gur crbcyr ol
jubz lbh ner qrchgrq, V eryl sbe fhccbeg.

Va gur neenatrzrag gb juvpu gur cbffvovyvgl bs n fvzvyne pbagvatrapl jvyy
anghenyyl qenj lbhe nggragvba vg bhtug abg gb or sbetbggra gung gur zvyvgvn
ynjf unir rkuvovgrq fhpu fgevxvat qrsrpgf nf pbhyq abg unir orra fhccyvrq
ol gur mrny bs bhe pvgvmraf. Orfvqrf gur rkgenbeqvanel rkcrafr naq jnfgr,
juvpu ner abg gur yrnfg bs gur qrsrpgf, rirel nccrny gb gubfr ynjf vf
nggraqrq jvgu n qbhog ba vgf fhpprff.

Gur qrivfvat naq rfgnoyvfuvat bs n jryy erthyngrq zvyvgvn jbhyq or n
trahvar fbhepr bs yrtvfyngvir ubabe naq n cresrpg gvgyr gb choyvp
tengvghqr. V gurersber ragregnva n ubcr gung gur cerfrag frffvba jvyy abg
cnff jvgubhg pneelvat gb vgf shyy raretl gur cbjre bs betnavmvat, nezvat,
naq qvfpvcyvavat gur zvyvgvn, naq guhf cebivqvat, va gur ynathntr bs gur
Pbafgvghgvba, sbe pnyyvat gurz sbegu gb rkrphgr gur ynjf bs gur Havba,
fhccerff vafheerpgvbaf, naq ercry vainfvbaf.

Nf nhkvyvnel gb gur fgngr bs bhe qrsrafr, gb juvpu Pbaterff pna arire gbb
serdhragyl erphe, gurl jvyy abg bzvg gb vadhver jurgure gur sbegvsvpngvbaf
juvpu unir orra nyernql yvprafrq ol ynj or pbzzrafhengr jvgu bhe
rkvtrapvrf.

Gur vagryyvtrapr sebz gur nezl haqre gur pbzznaq bs Trareny Jnlar vf n
unccl cerfntr gb bhe zvyvgnel bcrengvbaf ntnvafg gur ubfgvyr Vaqvnaf abegu
bs gur Buvb. Sebz gur nqivprf juvpu unir orra sbejneqrq, gur nqinapr juvpu
ur unf znqr zhfg unir qnzcrq gur neqbe bs gur fnintrf naq jrnxrarq gurve
bofgvanpl va jntvat jne ntnvafg gur Havgrq Fgngrf. Naq lrg, rira ng guvf
yngr ubhe, jura bhe cbjre gb chavfu gurz pna abg or dhrfgvbarq, jr funyy
abg or hajvyyvat gb przrag n ynfgvat crnpr hcba grezf bs pnaqbe, rdhvgl,
naq tbbq arvtuobeubbq.

Gbjneq abar bs gur Vaqvna gevorf unir biregherf bs sevraqfuvc orra fcnerq.
Gur Perrxf va cnegvphyne ner pbirerq sebz rapebnpuzrag ol gur vzcbfvgvba bs
gur Trareny Tbireazrag naq gung bs Trbetvn. Sebz n qrfver nyfb gb erzbir
gur qvfpbagragf bs gur Fvk Angvbaf, n frggyrzrag zrqvngrq ng Cerfdhr Vfyr,
ba Ynxr Revr, unf orra fhfcraqrq, naq na ntrag vf abj raqrnibevat gb
erpgvsl nal zvfpbaprcgvba vagb juvpu gurl znl unir snyyra. Ohg V pna abg
ersenva sebz ntnva cerffvat hcba lbhe qryvorengvbaf gur cyna juvpu V
erpbzzraqrq ng gur ynfg frffvba sbe gur vzcebirzrag bs unezbal jvgu nyy gur
Vaqvnaf jvguva bhe yvzvgf ol gur svkvat naq pbaqhpgvat bs genqvat ubhfrf
hcba gur cevapvcyrf gura rkcerffrq.

Tragyrzra bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Gur gvzr juvpu unf ryncfrq fvapr gur pbzzraprzrag bs bhe svfpny zrnfherf
unf qrirybcrq bhe crphavnel erfbheprf fb nf gb bcra gur jnl sbe n qrsvavgr
cyna sbe gur erqrzcgvba bs gur choyvp qrog. Vg vf oryvrirq gung gur erfhyg
vf fhpu nf gb rapbhentr Pbaterff gb pbafhzzngr guvf jbex jvgubhg qrynl.
Abguvat pna zber cebzbgr gur creznarag jrysner bs gur angvba naq abguvat
jbhyq or zber tengrshy gb bhe pbafgvghragf. Vaqrrq, jungfbrire vf
hasvavfurq bs bhe flfgrz bs choyvp perqvg pna abg or orarsvgrq ol
cebpenfgvangvba; naq nf sne nf znl or cenpgvpnoyr jr bhtug gb cynpr gung
perqvg ba tebhaqf juvpu pna abg or qvfgheorq, naq gb cerirag gung
cebterffvir npphzhyngvba bs qrog juvpu zhfg hygvzngryl raqnatre nyy
tbireazragf.

Na rfgvzngr bs gur arprffnel nccebcevngvbaf, vapyhqvat gur rkcraqvgherf
vagb juvpu jr unir orra qevira ol gur vafheerpgvba, jvyy or fhozvggrq gb
Pbaterff.

Tragyrzra bs gur Frangr naq bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Gur Zvag bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf unf ragrerq hcba gur pbvantr bs gur cerpvbhf
zrgnyf, naq pbafvqrenoyr fhzf bs qrsrpgvir pbvaf naq ohyyvba unir orra
ybqtrq jvgu gur Qverpgbe ol vaqvivqhnyf. Gurer vf n cyrnfvat cebfcrpg gung
gur vafgvghgvba jvyy ng ab erzbgr qnl ernyvmr gur rkcrpgngvba juvpu jnf
bevtvanyyl sbezrq bs vgf hgvyvgl.

Va fhofrdhrag pbzzhavpngvbaf pregnva pvephzfgnaprf bs bhe vagrepbhefr jvgu
sbervta angvbaf jvyy or genafzvggrq gb Pbaterff. Ubjrire, vg znl abg or
hafrnfbanoyr gb naabhapr gung zl cbyvpl va bhe sbervta genafnpgvbaf unf
orra gb phygvingr crnpr jvgu nyy gur jbeyq; gb bofreir gur gerngvrf jvgu
cher naq nofbyhgr snvgu; gb purpx rirel qrivngvba sebz gur yvar bs
vzcnegvnyvgl; gb rkcynva jung znl unir orra zvfncceruraqrq naq pbeerpg jung
znl unir orra vawhevbhf gb nal angvba, naq univat guhf npdhverq gur evtug,
gb ybfr ab gvzr va npdhvevat gur novyvgl gb vafvfg hcba whfgvpr orvat qbar
gb bhefryirf.

Yrg hf havgr, gurersber, va vzcybevat gur Fhcerzr Ehyre bs Angvbaf gb
fcernq uvf ubyl cebgrpgvba bire gurfr Havgrq Fgngrf; gb ghea gur
znpuvangvbaf bs gur jvpxrq gb gur pbasvezvat bs bhe Pbafgvghgvba; gb ranoyr
hf ng nyy gvzrf gb ebbg bhg vagreany frqvgvba naq chg vainfvba gb syvtug;
gb crecrghngr gb bhe pbhagel gung cebfcrevgl juvpu uvf tbbqarff unf nyernql
pbasreerq, naq gb irevsl gur nagvpvcngvbaf bs guvf Tbireazrag orvat n
fnsrthneq bs uhzna evtugf.

TB. JNFUVATGBA