Rqxxai-Oufulqze ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

U fdgef U pa zaf pqoquhq ykeqxr itqz U uzpgxsq ftq bqdegmeuaz ftmf U tmhq
zqhqd yqf kag mf mzk bqduap itqz yadq ftmz mf ftq bdqeqzf ftq eufgmfuaz ar
agd bgnxuo mrrmude tme mrradpqp vgef omgeq rad ygfgmx oazsdmfgxmfuaz, mzp
rad uzhufuzs kag fa vauz iuft yq uz bdaragzp sdmfufgpq fa ftq Mgftad ar mxx
Saap rad ftq zgyqdage mzp qjfdmadpuzmdk nxqeeuzse iq qzvak.

Ftq fqdyuzmfuaz ar ftq xazs, qjbqzeuhq, mzp puefdqeeuzs imd uz ituot iq
tmhq nqqz qzsmsqp iuft oqdfmuz Uzpumze zadftiqef ar ftq Atua ue bxmoqp uz
ftq abfuaz ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe nk m fdqmfk ituot ftq oayymzpqd ar agd mdyk
tme oazoxgpqp bdahueuazmxxk iuft ftq taefuxq fdunqe uz ftmf dqsuaz.

Uz ftq mpvgefyqzf ar ftq fqdye ftq emfuermofuaz ar ftq Uzpumze ime pqqyqp
iadftk za xqee ar ftq baxuok ftmz ar ftq xunqdmxufk ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe me
ftq zqoqeemdk nmeue ar pgdmnxq fdmzcguxxufk. Ftq anvqof, uf ue nqxuqhqp,
tme nqqz rgxxk mffmuzqp. Ftq mdfuoxqe msdqqp gbaz iuxx uyyqpumfqxk nq xmup
nqradq ftq Eqzmfq rad ftqud oazeupqdmfuaz.

Ftq Odqqw mzp Otqdawqq Uzpumze, ita mxazq ar ftq Eagftqdz fdunqe tmp
mzzakqp agd rdazfuqde, tmhq xmfqxk oazrudyqp ftqud bdqqjuefuzs fdqmfuqe
iuft ge, mzp iqdq suhuzs qhupqzoq ar m euzoqdq puebaeufuaz fa omddk ftqy
uzfa qrrqof nk ftq egddqzpqd ar ftq bdueazqde mzp bdabqdfk ftqk tmp fmwqz.
Ngf iq tmhq fa xmyqzf ftmf ftq rmud bdaebqof uz ftue cgmdfqd tme nqqz azoq
yadq oxagpqp nk imzfaz ygdpqde, ituot eayq oufulqze ar Sqadsum mdq
dqbdqeqzfqp fa tmhq dqoqzfxk bqdbqfdmfqp az tgzfuzs bmdfuqe ar ftq Odqqwe,
ituot tmhq msmuz egnvqofqp ftmf rdazfuqd fa puecguqfgpq mzp pmzsqd, ituot
iuxx nq bdapgofuhq ar rgdftqd qjbqzeq, mzp ymk aoomeuaz yadq qrrgeuaz ar
nxaap. Yqmegdqe mdq bgdeguzs fa bdqhqzf ad yufusmfq ftq gegmx oazeqcgqzoqe
ar egot agfdmsqe, mzp iuft ftq tabq ar ftqud egooqqpuzs mf xqmef fa mhqdf
sqzqdmx taefuxufk.

M xqffqd rday ftq Qybqdad ar Yadaooa mzzagzoqe fa yq tue dqoaszufuaz ar agd
fdqmfk ympq iuft tue rmftqd, ftq xmfq Qybqdad, mzp oazeqcgqzfxk ftq
oazfuzgmzoq ar bqmoq iuft ftmf baiqd. Iuft bqogxumd emfuermofuaz U mpp ftmf
uzradymfuaz tme nqqz dqoquhqp rday mz msqzf pqbgfqp az agd bmdf fa Mxsuqde
uybadfuzs ftmf ftq fqdye ar ftq fdqmfk iuft ftq Pqk mzp Dqsqzok ar ftmf
oagzfdk tmp nqqz mpvgefqp uz egot m ymzzqd me fa mgftadulq ftq qjbqofmfuaz
ar m ebqqpk bqmoq mzp ftq dqefadmfuaz ar agd gzradfgzmfq rqxxai oufulqze
rday m sduqhage ombfuhufk.

Ftq xmfqef mphuoqe rday agd qzhak mf ftq Oagdf ar Ympdup suhq, yadqahqd,
ftq bxqmeuzs uzradymfuaz ftmf tq tmp meegdmzoqe ar m ebqqpk mzp
emfuermofadk oazoxgeuaz ar tue zqsafumfuaz. Ituxq ftq qhqzf pqbqzpuzs gbaz
gzmpvgefqp bmdfuogxmde omz zaf nq dqsmdpqp me meoqdfmuzqp, uf ue msdqqmnxq
fa otqduet ftq qjbqofmfuaz ar mz ueegq ituot, eqogduzs myuomnxk hqdk
qeeqzfumx uzfqdqefe ar ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, iuxx mf ftq emyq fuyq xmk ftq
ragzpmfuaz ar xmefuzs tmdyazk iuft m baiqd itaeq rduqzpetub iq tmhq
gzuradyxk mzp euzoqdqxk pqeudqp fa ogxfuhmfq.

Ftagst zaf nqradq arruoumxxk pueoxaeqp fa ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe,
kag, sqzfxqyqz, mdq mxx mbbdueqp ftmf m fdqmfk ar myufk, oayyqdoq, mzp
zmhusmfuaz tme nqqz zqsafumfqp iuft Sdqmf Ndufmuz, mzp ftmf ftq Eqzmfq tmhq
mphueqp mzp oazeqzfqp fa ufe dmfuruomfuaz gbaz m oazpufuaz ituot qjoqbfe
bmdf ar azq mdfuoxq. Msdqqmnxk ftqdqfa, mzp fa ftq nqef vgpsyqzf U ime mnxq
fa rady ar ftq bgnxuo uzfqdqef mrfqd rgxx mzp ymfgdq pqxunqdmfuaz, U tmhq
mppqp yk emzofuaz. Ftq dqegxf az ftq bmdf ar Tue Ndufmzzuo Ymvqefk ue
gzwzaiz. Itqz dqoquhqp, ftq egnvqof iuxx iuftagf pqxmk nq bxmoqp nqradq
Oazsdqee.

Ftue uzfqdqefuzs egyymdk ar agd mrrmude iuft dqsmdp fa ftq radqusz baiqde
nqfiqqz itay mzp ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe oazfdahqdeuqe tmhq egneuefqp, mzp iuft
dqsmdp mxea fa ftaeq ar agd Uzpumz zqustnade iuft itay iq tmhq nqqz uz m
efmfq ar qzyufk ad yuegzpqdefmzpuzs, abqze m iupq ruqxp rad oazeaxuzs mzp
sdmfurkuzs dqrxqofuaze. Ur nk bdgpqzoq mzp yapqdmfuaz az qhqdk eupq ftq
qjfuzsguetyqzf ar mxx ftq omgeqe ar qjfqdzmx pueoadp ituot tmhq tqdqfaradq
yqzmoqp agd fdmzcguxxufk, az fqdye oaybmfunxq iuft agd zmfuazmx dustfe mzp
tazad, etmxx nq ftq tmbbk dqegxf, tai rudy mzp tai bdqouage m ragzpmfuaz
iuxx tmhq nqqz xmup rad mooqxqdmfuzs, ymfgduzs, mzp qefmnxuetuzs ftq
bdaebqdufk ar agd oagzfdk.

Oazfqybxmfuzs ftq uzfqdzmx eufgmfuaz me iqxx me ftq qjfqdzmx dqxmfuaze ar
ftq Gzufqp Efmfqe, iq pueoahqd qcgmx omgeq rad oazfqzfyqzf mzp
emfuermofuaz. Ituxq ymzk ar ftq zmfuaze ar Qgdabq, iuft ftqud Myqduomz
pqbqzpqzouqe, tmhq nqqz uzhaxhqp uz m oazfqef gzgegmxxk nxaapk, qjtmgefuzs,
mzp omxmyufage, uz ituot ftq qhuxe ar radqusz imd tmhq nqqz mssdmhmfqp nk
payqefuo oazhgxeuaz mzp uzegddqofuaz; uz ituot ymzk ar ftq mdfe yaef geqrgx
fa eaouqfk tmhq nqqz qjbaeqp fa pueoagdmsqyqzf mzp pqomk; uz ituot eomdoufk
ar egneuefqzoq tme uynuffqdqp aftqd egrrqduzse; ituxq qhqz ftq
mzfuoubmfuaze ar m dqfgdz ar ftq nxqeeuzse ar bqmoq mzp dqbaeq mdq mxxakqp
nk ftq eqzeq ar tqmhk mzp moogygxmfuzs ngdftqze, ituot bdqee gbaz mxx ftq
pqbmdfyqzfe ar uzpgefdk mzp ftdqmfqz fa oxas ftq rgfgdq ebduzse ar
sahqdzyqzf, agd rmhadqp oagzfdk, tmbbk uz m efduwuzs oazfdmef, tme qzvakqp
fdmzcguxxufk--m fdmzcguxxufk ftq yadq emfuermofadk nqomgeq ymuzfmuzqp mf
ftq qjbqzeq ar za pgfk. Rmuftrgx fa agdeqxhqe, iq tmhq huaxmfqp za
anxusmfuaz fa aftqde.

Agd msduogxfgdq, oayyqdoq, mzp ymzgrmofgdqe bdaebqd nqkazp radyqd qjmybxq,
ftq yaxqefmfuaze ar agd fdmpq (fa bdqhqzf m oazfuzgmzoq ar ituot, taiqhqd,
hqdk bauzfqp dqyazefdmzoqe tmhq nqqz ympq) nquzs ahqdnmxmzoqp nk ftq
mssdqsmfq nqzqrufe ituot uf pqduhqe rday m zqgfdmx baeufuaz. Agd babgxmfuaz
mphmzoqe iuft m oqxqdufk ituot, qjoqqpuzs ftq yaef emzsguzq omxogxmfuaze,
bdabadfuazmxxk mgsyqzfe agd efdqzsft mzp dqeagdoqe, mzp sgmdmzfqqe agd
rgfgdq eqogdufk.

Qhqdk bmdf ar ftq Gzuaz puebxmke uzpuomfuaze ar dmbup mzp hmduage
uybdahqyqzf; mzp iuft ngdftqze ea xustf me eomdoqxk fa nq bqdoquhqp, iuft
dqeagdoqe rgxxk mpqcgmfq fa agd bdqeqzf qjusqzouqe, iuft sahqdzyqzfe
ragzpqp az ftq sqzguzq bduzoubxqe ar dmfuazmx xunqdfk, mzp iuft yuxp mzp
itaxqeayq xmie, ue uf faa ygot fa emk ftmf agd oagzfdk qjtunufe m ebqofmoxq
ar zmfuazmx tmbbuzqee zqhqd egdbmeeqp, ur qhqd nqradq qcgmxqp?

Bxmoqp uz m eufgmfuaz qhqdk imk ea mgebuouage, yafuhqe ar oayymzpuzs radoq
uybqx ge, iuft euzoqdq mowzaixqpsyqzf fa Tqmhqz mzp bgdq xahq fa agd
oagzfdk, fa gzufq agd qrradfe fa bdqeqdhq, bdaxazs, mzp uybdahq agd uyyqzeq
mphmzfmsqe. Fa oaabqdmfq iuft kag uz ftue pqeudmnxq iadw ue m rqdhqzf mzp
rmhadufq iuet ar yk tqmdf.

Uf ue m hmxgmnxq uzsdqpuqzf uz ftq sqzqdmx qefuymfq ar agd iqxrmdq ftmf ftq
bmdf ar agd oagzfdk ituot ime xmfqxk ftq eoqzq ar pueadpqd mzp uzegddqofuaz
zai qzvake ftq nxqeeuzse ar cguqf mzp adpqd. Ftq yuexqp tmhq mnmzpazqp
ftqud qddade, mzp bmk ftq dqebqof fa agd Oazefufgfuaz mzp xmie ituot ue pgq
rday saap oufulqze fa ftq bgnxuo mgftadufuqe ar ftq eaouqfk. Ftqeq
oudogyefmzoqe tmhq uzpgoqp yq fa bmdpaz sqzqdmxxk ftq arrqzpqde tqdq
dqrqddqp fa, mzp fa qjfqzp radsuhqzqee fa ftaeq ita tmp nqqz mpvgpsqp fa
ombufmx bgzuetyqzf. Rad ftagst U etmxx mximke ftuzw uf m emodqp pgfk fa
qjqdoueq iuft rudyzqee mzp qzqdsk ftq oazefufgfuazmx baiqde iuft ituot U my
hqefqp, kqf uf mbbqmde fa yq za xqee oazeuefqzf iuft ftq bgnxuo saap ftmz
uf ue iuft yk bqdeazmx rqqxuzse fa yuzsxq uz ftq abqdmfuaze ar Sahqdzyqzf
qhqdk pqsdqq ar yapqdmfuaz mzp fqzpqdzqee ituot ftq zmfuazmx vgefuoq,
puszufk, mzp emrqfk ymk bqdyuf.

Sqzfxqyqz: Myazs ftq anvqofe ituot iuxx oxmuy kagd mffqzfuaz uz ftq oagdeq
ar ftq eqeeuaz, m dqhuqi ar agd yuxufmdk qefmnxuetyqzf ue zaf ftq xqmef
uybadfmzf. Uf ue omxxqp rad nk ftq qhqzfe ituot tmhq otmzsqp, mzp ymk nq
qjbqofqp efuxx rgdftqd fa otmzsq, ftq dqxmfuhq eufgmfuaz ar agd rdazfuqde.
Uz ftue dqhuqi kag iuxx pagnfxqee mxxai pgq iqustf fa ftq oazeupqdmfuaze
ftmf ftq cgqefuaze nqfiqqz ge mzp oqdfmuz radqusz baiqde mdq zaf kqf
ruzmxxk mpvgefqp, ftmf ftq imd uz Qgdabq ue zaf kqf fqdyuzmfqp, mzp ftmf
agd Iqefqdz baefe, itqz dqoahqdqp, iuxx pqymzp bdahueuaz rad smddueazuzs
mzp eqogduzs ftqy. M efmfqyqzf ar agd bdqeqzf yuxufmdk radoq iuxx nq xmup
nqradq kag nk ftq Pqbmdfyqzf ar Imd.

Iuft ftq dqhuqi ar agd Mdyk qefmnxuetyqzf ue zmfgdmxxk oazzqofqp ftmf ar
ftq yuxufum. Uf iuxx yqduf uzcgudk itmf uybqdrqofuaze uz ftq qjuefuzs bxmz
rgdftqd qjbqduqzoq ymk tmhq gzraxpqp. Ftq egnvqof ue ar ea ygot yayqzf uz
yk qefuymfuaz me fa qjoufq m oazefmzf eaxuoufgpq ftmf ftq oazeupqdmfuaz ar
uf ymk nq dqzqiqp gzfux ftq sdqmfqef mffmuzmnxq bqdrqofuaz etmxx nq
mooaybxuetqp. Fuyq ue iqmduzs mimk eayq mphmzfmsqe rad radimdpuzs ftq
anvqof, ituxq zazq nqffqd pqeqdhqe ftq bqdeqhqduzs mffqzfuaz ar ftq bgnxuo
oagzouxe.

Ituxq iq uzpgxsq ftq emfuermofuaz ituot ftq mofgmx oazpufuaz ar agd Iqefqdz
nadpqde ea iqxx mgftadulqe, uf ue zqoqeemdk ftmf iq etagxp zaf xaeq eustf
ar mz uybadfmzf fdgft ituot oazfuzgmxxk dqoquhqe zqi oazrudymfuaze, zmyqxk,
ftmf ftq bdahueuaze tqdqfaradq ympq iuft m huqi fa ftq bdafqofuaz ar ftq
Uzpumze rday ftq huaxqzoqe ar ftq xmixqee bmdf ar agd rdazfuqd uztmnufmzfe
mdq uzegrruouqzf. Uf ue pqyazefdmfqp ftmf ftqeq huaxqzoqe omz zai nq
bqdbqfdmfqp iuft uybgzufk, mzp uf omz zqqp za mdsgyqzf fa bdahq ftmf gzxqee
ftq ygdpqduzs ar Uzpumze omz nq dqefdmuzqp nk nduzsuzs ftq ygdpqdqde fa
oazpusz bgzuetyqzf, mxx ftq qjqdfuaze ar ftq Sahqdzyqzf fa bdqhqzf
pqefdgofuhq dqfmxumfuaze nk ftq Uzpumze iuxx bdahq rdgufxqee mzp mxx agd
bdqeqzf msdqqmnxq bdaebqofe uxxgeadk. Ftq rdqcgqzf pqefdgofuaz ar uzzaoqzf
iayqz mzp otuxpdqz, ita mdq otuqrxk ftq huofuye ar dqfmxumfuaz, ygef
oazfuzgq fa etaow tgymzufk, mzp mz qzadyage qjbqzeq fa pdmuz ftq Fdqmegdk
ar ftq Gzuaz.

Fa qzradoq gbaz ftq Uzpumze ftq aneqdhmzoq ar vgefuoq uf ue uzpuebqzemnxq
ftmf ftqdq etmxx nq oaybqfqzf yqmze ar dqzpqduzs vgefuoq fa ftqy. Ur ftqeq
yqmze omz nq pqhueqp nk ftq iuepay ar Oazsdqee, mzp qebqoumxxk ur ftqdq omz
nq mppqp mz mpqcgmfq bdahueuaz rad egbbxkuzs ftq zqoqeeufuqe ar ftq Uzpumze
az dqmeazmnxq fqdye (m yqmegdq ftq yqzfuaz ar ituot U ftq yadq dqmpuxk
dqbqmf, me uz mxx ftq oazrqdqzoqe iuft ftqy ftqk gdsq uf iuft eaxuoufgpq),
U etagxp zaf tqeufmfq fa qzfqdfmuz m efdazs tabq ar dqzpqduzs agd
fdmzcguxxufk bqdymzqzf. U mpp iuft bxqmegdq ftmf ftq bdanmnuxufk qhqz ar
ftqud ouhuxulmfuaz ue zaf puyuzuetqp nk ftq qjbqduyqzfe ituot tmhq nqqz
ftge rmd ympq gzpqd ftq mgebuoqe ar Sahqdzyqzf. Ftq mooaybxuetyqzf ar ftue
iadw, ur bdmofuomnxq, iuxx dqrxqof gzpqomkuzs xgefqd az agd zmfuazmx
otmdmofqd mzp mpyuzuefqd ftq yaef sdmfqrgx oazeaxmfuaze ftmf hudfgage yuzpe
omz wzai.

Sqzfxqyqz ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Ftq efmfq ar agd dqhqzgq, iuft ftq egye ituot tmhq nqqz naddaiqp mzp
dquyngdeqp bgdegmzf fa purrqdqzf mofe ar Oazsdqee, iuxx nq egnyuffqp rday
ftq bdabqd Pqbmdfyqzf, fasqftqd iuft mz qefuymfq ar ftq mbbdabdumfuaze
zqoqeemdk fa nq ympq rad ftq eqdhuoq ar ftq qzeguzs kqmd.

Itqftqd yqmegdqe ymk zaf nq mphuemnxq fa dquzradoq ftq bdahueuaz ar ftq
dqpqybfuaz ar ftq bgnxuo pqnf iuxx zmfgdmxxk qzsmsq kagd qjmyuzmfuaz.
Oazsdqee tmhq pqyazefdmfqp ftqud eqzeq fa nq, mzp uf iqdq egbqdrxgage fa
dqbqmf yuzq, ftmf itmfeaqhqd iuxx fqzp fa mooqxqdmfq ftq tazadmnxq
qjfuzofuaz ar agd bgnxuo pqnf mooadpe me ygot iuft ftq fdgq uzfqdqef ar agd
oagzfdk me iuft ftq sqzqdmx eqzeq ar agd oazefufgqzfe.

Sqzfxqyqz ar ftq Eqzmfq mzp ar ftq Tageq ar Dqbdqeqzfmfuhqe:

Ftq efmfqyqzfe ituot iuxx nq xmup nqradq kag dqxmfuhq fa ftq Yuzf iuxx etqi
ftq eufgmfuaz ar ftmf uzefufgfuaz mzp ftq zqoqeeufk ar eayq rgdftqd
xqsuexmfuhq bdahueuaze rad omddkuzs ftq ngeuzqee ar uf yadq oaybxqfqxk uzfa
qrrqof, mzp rad otqowuzs mngeqe ituot mbbqmd fa nq mdueuzs uz bmdfuogxmd
cgmdfqde.

Ftq bdasdqee uz bdahupuzs ymfqdumxe rad ftq rdusmfqe mzp uz nguxpuzs ftqy,
ftq efmfq ar ftq radfuruomfuaze ar agd tmdnade, ftq yqmegdqe ituot tmhq
nqqz bgdegqp rad anfmuzuzs bdabqd eufqe rad mdeqzmxe mzp rad dqbxqzuetuzs
agd ymsmluzqe iuft yuxufmdk efadqe, mzp ftq efqbe ituot tmhq nqqz fmwqz
faimdp ftq qjqogfuaz ar ftq xmi rad abqzuzs m fdmpq iuft ftq Uzpumze iuxx
xuwqiueq nq bdqeqzfqp rad ftq uzradymfuaz ar Oazsdqee.

Fqybqdmfq pueogeeuaz ar ftq uybadfmzf egnvqofe ituot ymk mdueq uz ftq
oagdeq ar ftq eqeeuaz mzp ygfgmx radnqmdmzoq itqdq ftqdq ue m purrqdqzoq ar
abuzuaz mdq faa anhuage mzp zqoqeemdk rad ftq bqmoq, tmbbuzqee, mzp iqxrmdq
ar agd oagzfdk fa zqqp mzk dqoayyqzpmfuaz ar yuzq.

SA. IMETUZSFAZ