Sryybj-Pvgvmraf bs gur Frangr naq Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Va erpheevat gb gur vagreany fvghngvba bs bhe pbhagel fvapr V unq ynfg gur
cyrnfher gb nqqerff lbh, V svaq nzcyr ernfba sbe n erarjrq rkcerffvba bs
gung tengvghqr gb gur Ehyre bs gur Havirefr juvpu n pbagvahrq frevrf bs
cebfcrevgl unf fb bsgra naq fb whfgyl pnyyrq sbegu.

Gur npgf bs gur ynfg frffvba juvpu erdhverq fcrpvny neenatrzragf unir orra
nf sne nf pvephzfgnaprf jbhyq nqzvg pneevrq vagb bcrengvba.

Zrnfherf pnyphyngrq gb vafher n pbagvahnapr bs gur sevraqfuvc bs gur
Vaqvnaf naq gb cerfreir crnpr nybat gur rkgrag bs bhe vagrevbe sebagvre
unir orra qvtrfgrq naq nqbcgrq. Va gur senzvat bs gurfr pner unf orra gnxra
gb thneq ba gur bar unaq bhe nqinaprq frggyrzragf sebz gur cerqngbel
vaphefvbaf bs gubfr haehyl vaqvivqhnyf jub pna abg or erfgenvarq ol gurve
gevorf, naq ba gur bgure unaq gb cebgrpg gur evtugf frpherq gb gur Vaqvnaf
ol gerngl--gb qenj gurz arnere gb gur pvivyvmrq fgngr naq vafcver gurz
jvgu pbeerpg pbaprcgvbaf bs gur cbjre nf jryy nf whfgvpr bs gur
Tbireazrag.

Gur zrrgvat bs gur qrchgvrf sebz gur Perrx Angvba ng Pbyrenva, va gur Fgngr
bs Trbetvn, juvpu unq sbe n cevapvcny bowrpg gur chepunfr bs n cnepry bs
gurve ynaq ol gung Fgngr, oebxr hc jvgubhg vgf orvat nppbzcyvfurq, gur
angvba univat cerivbhf gb gurve qrcnegher vafgehpgrq gurz ntnvafg znxvat
nal fnyr. Gur bppnfvba, ubjrire, unf orra vzcebirq gb pbasvez ol n arj
gerngl jvgu gur Perrxf gurve cerrkvfgvat ratntrzragf jvgu gur Havgrq
Fgngrf, naq gb bognva gurve pbafrag gb gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs genqvat ubhfrf
naq zvyvgnel cbfgf jvguva gurve obhaqnel, ol zrnaf bs juvpu gurve
sevraqfuvc naq gur trareny crnpr znl or zber rssrpghnyyl frpherq.

Gur crevbq qhevat gur yngr frffvba ng juvpu gur nccebcevngvba jnf cnffrq
sbe pneelvat vagb rssrpg gur gerngl bs nzvgl, pbzzrepr, naq anivtngvba
orgjrra gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Uvf Oevggnavp Znwrfgl arprffnevyl
cebpenfgvangrq gur erprcgvba bs gur cbfgf fgvchyngrq gb or qryvirerq orlbaq
gur qngr nffvtarq sbe gung rirag. Nf fbba, ubjrire, nf gur Tbireabe-Trareny
bs Pnanqn pbhyq or nqqerffrq jvgu cebcevrgl ba gur fhowrpg, neenatrzragf
jrer pbeqvnyyl naq cebzcgyl pbapyhqrq sbe gurve rinphngvba, naq gur Havgrq
Fgngrf gbbx cbffrffvba bs gur cevapvcny bs gurz, pbzceruraqvat Bfjrtb,
Avntnen, Qrgebvg, Zvpuvyvznpxvanp, naq Sbeg Zvnzv, jurer fhpu ercnvef naq
nqqvgvbaf unir orra beqrerq gb or znqr nf nccrnerq vaqvfcrafnoyr.

Gur pbzzvffvbaref nccbvagrq ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq bs Terng
Oevgnva gb qrgrezvar juvpu vf gur evire Fg. Pebvk zragvbarq va gur gerngl
bs crnpr bs 1783, nterrq va gur pubvpr bs Rtoreg Orafba, rfd., bs Arj Lbex,
sbe gur 3eq pbzzvffvbare. Gur jubyr zrg ng Fg. Naqerj'f, va Cnffnzndhbqql
Onl, va gur ortvaavat bs Bpgbore, naq qverpgrq fheirlf gb or znqr bs gur
eviref va qvfchgr; ohg qrrzvat vg vzcenpgvpnoyr gb unir gurfr fheirlf
pbzcyrgrq orsber gur arkg lrne, gurl nqwbhearq gb zrrg ng Obfgba va Nhthfg,
1797, sbe gur svany qrpvfvba bs gur dhrfgvba.

Bgure pbzzvffvbaref nccbvagrq ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, nterrnoyl
gb gur 7gu negvpyr bs gur gerngl jvgu Terng Oevgnva, eryngvir gb pncgherf
naq pbaqrzangvba bs irffryf naq bgure cebcregl, zrg gur pbzzvffvbaref bs
Uvf Oevgnaavp Znwrfgl va Ybaqba va Nhthfg ynfg, jura Wbua Gehzohyy, rfd.,
jnf pubfra ol ybg sbe gur 5gu pbzzvffvbare. Va Bpgbore sbyybjvat gur obneq
jrer gb cebprrq gb ohfvarff. Nf lrg gurer unf orra ab pbzzhavpngvba bs
pbzzvffvbaref ba gur cneg bs Terng Oevgnva gb havgr jvgu gubfr jub unir
orra nccbvagrq ba gur cneg bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf sbe pneelvat vagb rssrpg
gur 6gu negvpyr bs gur gerngl.

Gur gerngl jvgu Fcnva erdhverq gung gur pbzzvffvbaref sbe ehaavat gur
obhaqnel yvar orgjrra gur greevgbel bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf naq Uvf Pngubyvp
Znwrfgl'f cebivaprf bs Rnfg naq Jrfg Sybevqn fubhyq zrrg ng gur Angpurm
orsber gur rkcvengvba bs 6 zbaguf nsgre gur rkpunatr bs gur engvsvpngvbaf,
juvpu jnf rssrpgrq ng Nenawhrm ba gur 25gu qnl bs Ncevy; naq gur
gebbcf bs Uvf Pngubyvp Znwrfgl bpphclvat nal cbfgf jvguva gur yvzvgf bs
gur Havgrq Fgngrf jrer jvguva gur fnzr gvzr crevbq gb or jvguqenja. Gur
pbzzvffvbare bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf gurersber pbzzraprq uvf wbhearl sbe gur
Angpurm va Frcgrzore, naq gebbcf jrer beqrerq gb bpphcl gur cbfgf sebz
juvpu gur Fcnavfu tneevfbaf fubhyq or jvguqenja. Vasbezngvba unf orra
erpragyl erprvirq bs gur nccbvagzrag bs n pbzzvffvbare ba gur cneg bs Uvf
Pngubyvp Znwrfgl sbe ehaavat gur obhaqnel yvar, ohg abar bs nal nccbvagzrag
sbe gur nqwhfgzrag bs gur pynvzf bs bhe pvgvmraf jubfr irffryf jrer
pncgherq ol gur nezrq irffryf bs Fcnva.

Va chefhnapr bs gur npg bs Pbaterff cnffrq va gur ynfg frffvba sbe gur
cebgrpgvba naq eryvrs bs Nzrevpna frn-zra, ntragf jrer nccbvagrq, bar gb
erfvqr va Terng Oevgnva naq gur bgure va gur Jrfg Vaqvrf. Gur rssrpgf bs
gur ntrapl va gur Jrfg Vaqvrf ner abg lrg shyyl nfpregnvarq, ohg gubfr
juvpu unir orra pbzzhavpngrq nssbeq tebhaqf gb oryvrir gur zrnfher jvyy or
orarsvpvny. Gur ntrag qrfgvarq gb erfvqr va Terng Oevgnva qrpyvavat gb
npprcg gur nccbvagzrag, gur ohfvarff unf pbafrdhragyl qribyirq ba gur
zvavfgre bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va Ybaqba, naq jvyy pbzznaq uvf nggragvba
hagvy n arj ntrag funyy or nccbvagrq.

Nsgre znal qrynlf naq qvfnccbvagzragf nevfvat bhg bs gur Rhebcrna jne, gur
svany neenatrzragf sbe shysvyyvat gur ratntrzragf znqr gb gur Qrl naq
Ertrapl bs Nytvref jvyy va nyy cerfrag nccrnenapr or pebjarq jvgu fhpprff,
ohg haqre terng, gubhtu varivgnoyr, qvfnqinagntrf va gur crphavnel
genafnpgvbaf bppnfvbarq ol gung jne, juvpu jvyy eraqre shegure cebivfvba
arprffnel. Gur npghny yvorengvba bs nyy bhe pvgvmraf jub jrer cevfbaref va
Nytvref, juvyr vg tengvsvrf rirel srryvat bs urneg, vf vgfrys na rnearfg bs
n fngvfsnpgbel grezvangvba bs gur jubyr artbgvngvba. Zrnfherf ner va
bcrengvba sbe rssrpgvat gerngvrf jvgu gur Ertrapvrf bs Ghavf naq Gevcbyv.

Gb na npgvir rkgreany pbzzrepr gur cebgrpgvba bs n aniny sbepr vf
vaqvfcrafnoyr. Guvf vf znavsrfg jvgu ertneq gb jnef va juvpu n Fgngr vf
vgfrys n cnegl. Ohg orfvqrf guvf, vg vf va bhe bja rkcrevrapr gung gur zbfg
fvaprer arhgenyvgl vf abg n fhssvpvrag thneq ntnvafg gur qrcerqngvbaf bs
angvbaf ng jne. Gb frpher erfcrpg gb n arhgeny synt erdhverf n aniny sbepr
betnavmrq naq ernql gb ivaqvpngr vg sebz vafhyg be ntterffvba. Guvf znl
rira cerirag gur arprffvgl bs tbvat gb jne ol qvfpbhentvat oryyvtrerag
cbjref sebz pbzzvggvat fhpu ivbyngvbaf bs gur evtugf bs gur arhgeny cnegl
nf znl, svefg be ynfg, yrnir ab bgure bcgvba. Sebz gur orfg vasbezngvba V
unir orra noyr gb bognva vg jbhyq frrz nf vs bhe genqr gb gur Zrqvgreenarna
jvgubhg n cebgrpgvat sbepr jvyy nyjnlf or vafrpher naq bhe pvgvmraf rkcbfrq
gb gur pnynzvgvrf sebz juvpu ahzoref bs gurz unir ohg whfg orra eryvrirq.

Gurfr pbafvqrengvbaf vaivgr gur Havgrq Fgngrf gb ybbx gb gur zrnaf, naq gb
frg nobhg gur tenqhny perngvba bs n anil. Gur vapernfvat cebterff bs gurve
anivtngvba cebzvfrf gurz ng ab qvfgnag crevbq gur erdhvfvgr fhccyl bs
frn-zra, naq gurve zrnaf va bgure erfcrpgf snibe gur haqregnxvat. Vg vf na
rapbhentrzrag, yvxrjvfr, gung gurve cnegvphyne fvghngvba jvyy tvir jrvtug
naq vasyhrapr gb n zbqrengr aniny sbepr va gurve unaqf. Jvyy vg abg, gura,
or nqivfnoyr gb ortva jvgubhg qrynl gb cebivqr naq ynl hc gur zngrevnyf sbe
gur ohvyqvat naq rdhvccvat bs fuvcf bs jne, naq gb cebprrq va gur jbex ol
qrterrf, va cebcbegvba nf bhe erfbheprf funyy eraqre vg cenpgvpnoyr jvgubhg
vapbairavrapr, fb gung n shgher jne bs Rhebcr znl abg svaq bhe pbzzrepr va
gur fnzr hacebgrpgrq fgngr va juvpu vg jnf sbhaq ol gur cerfrag?

Pbaterff unir ercrngrqyl, naq abg jvgubhg fhpprff, qverpgrq gurve nggragvba
gb gur rapbhentrzrag bs znahsnpgherf. Gur bowrpg vf bs gbb zhpu pbafrdhrapr
abg gb vafher n pbagvahnapr bs gurve rssbegf va rirel jnl juvpu funyy
nccrne ryvtvoyr. Nf n trareny ehyr, znahsnpgherf ba choyvp nppbhag ner
varkcrqvrag; ohg jurer gur fgngr bs guvatf va n pbhagel yrnirf yvggyr ubcr
gung pregnva oenapurf bs znahsnpgher jvyy sbe n terng yratgu bs gvzr
bognva, jura gurfr ner bs n angher rffragvny gb gur sheavfuvat naq
rdhvccvat bs gur choyvp sbepr va gvzr bs jne, ner abg rfgnoyvfuzragf sbe
cebphevat gurz ba choyvp nppbhag gb gur rkgrag bs gur beqvanel qrznaq sbe
gur choyvp freivpr erpbzzraqrq ol fgebat pbafvqrengvbaf bs angvbany cbyvpl
nf na rkprcgvba gb gur trareny ehyr?

Bhtug bhe pbhagel gb erznva va fhpu pnfrf qrcraqrag ba sbervta fhccyl,
cerpnevbhf orpnhfr yvnoyr gb or vagreehcgrq? Vs gur arprffnel negvpyr
fubhyq va guvf zbqr pbfg zber va gvzr bs crnpr, jvyy abg gur frphevgl naq
vaqrcraqrapr gurapr nevfvat sbez na nzcyr pbzcrafngvba?

Rfgnoyvfuzragf bs guvf fbeg, pbzzrafhengr bayl jvgu gur pnyyf bs gur choyvp
freivpr va gvzr bs crnpr, jvyy va gvzr bs jne rnfvyl or rkgraqrq va
cebcbegvba gb gur rkvtrapvrf bs gur Tbireazrag, naq znl rira creuncf or
znqr gb lvryq n fhecyhf sbe gur fhccyl bs bhe pvgvmraf ng ynetr, fb nf gb
zvgvtngr gur cevingvbaf sebz gur vagreehcgvba bs gurve genqr. Vs nqbcgrq,
gur cyna bhtug gb rkpyhqr nyy gubfr oenapurf juvpu ner nyernql, be yvxryl
fbba gb or, rfgnoyvfurq va gur pbhagel, va beqre gung gurer znl or ab qnatre
bs vagresrerapr jvgu chefhvgf bs vaqvivqhny vaqhfgel.

Vg jvyy abg or qbhogrq gung jvgu ersrerapr rvgure gb vaqvivqhny be angvbany
jrysner ntevphygher vf bs cevznel vzcbegnapr. Va cebcbegvba nf angvbaf
nqinapr va cbchyngvba naq bgure pvephzfgnaprf bs znghevgl guvf gehgu
orpbzrf zber nccnerag, naq eraqref gur phygvingvba bs gur fbvy zber naq
zber na bowrpg bs choyvp cngebantr. Vafgvghgvbaf sbe cebzbgvat vg tebj hc,
fhccbegrq ol gur choyvp chefr; naq gb jung bowrpg pna vg or qrqvpngrq jvgu
terngre cebcevrgl?

Nzbat gur zrnaf juvpu unir orra rzcyblrq gb guvf raq abar unir orra
nggraqrq jvgu terngre fhpprff guna gur rfgnoyvfuzrag bs obneqf (pbzcbfrq bs
cebcre punenpgref) punetrq jvgu pbyyrpgvat naq qvsshfvat vasbezngvba, naq
ranoyrq ol cerzvhzf naq fznyy crphavnel nvqf gb rapbhentr naq nffvfg n
fcvevg bs qvfpbirel naq vzcebirzrag. Guvf fcrpvrf bs rfgnoyvfuzrag
pbagevohgrf qbhoyl gb gur vapernfr bs vzcebirzrag ol fgvzhyngvat gb
ragrecevfr naq rkcrevzrag, naq ol qenjvat gb n pbzzba pragre gur erfhygf
rireljurer bs vaqvivqhny fxvyy naq bofreingvba, naq fcernqvat gurz gurapr
bire gur jubyr angvba. Rkcrevrapr nppbeqvatyl unf furja gung gurl ner irel
purnc vafgehzragf bs vzzrafr angvbany orarsvgf.

V unir urergbsber cebcbfrq gb gur pbafvqrengvba bs Pbaterff gur rkcrqvrapl
bs rfgnoyvfuvat n angvbany havirefvgl naq nyfb n zvyvgnel npnqrzl. Gur
qrfvenoyrarff bs obgu gurfr vafgvghgvbaf unf fb pbafgnagyl vapernfrq jvgu
rirel arj ivrj V unir gnxra bs gur fhowrpg gung V pna abg bzvg gur
bccbeghavgl bs bapr sbe nyy erpnyyvat lbhe nggragvba gb gurz.

Gur nffrzoyl gb juvpu V nqqerff zlfrys vf gbb rayvtugrarq abg gb or shyyl
frafvoyr ubj zhpu n sybhevfuvat fgngr bs gur negf naq fpvraprf pbagevohgrf
gb angvbany cebfcrevgl naq erchgngvba.

Gehr vg vf gung bhe pbhagel, zhpu gb vgf ubabe, pbagnvaf znal frzvanevrf bs
yrneavat uvtuyl ercrngnoyr naq hfrshy; ohg gur shaqf hcba juvpu gurl erfg
ner gbb aneebj gb pbzznaq gur noyrfg cebsrffbef va gur qvssrerag
qrcnegzragf bs yvoreny xabjyrqtr sbe gur vafgvghgvba pbagrzcyngrq, gubhtu
gurl jbhyq or rkpryyrag nhkvyvnevrf.

Nzbatfg gur zbgvirf gb fhpu na vafgvghgvba, gur nffvzvyngvba bs gur
cevapvcyrf, bcvavbaf, naq znaaref bs bhe pbhagel-zra ol gur pbzzba
rqhpngvba bs n cbegvba bs bhe lbhgu sebz rirel dhnegre jryy qrfreirf
nggragvba. Gur zber ubzbtrabhf bhe pvgvmraf pna or znqr va gurfr
cnegvphynef gur terngre jvyy or bhe cebfcrpg bs creznarag havba; naq n
cevznel bowrpg bs fhpu n angvbany vafgvghgvba fubhyq or gur rqhpngvba bs
bhe lbhgu va gur fpvrapr bs tbireazrag. Va n erchoyvp jung fcrpvrf bs
xabjyrqtr pna or rdhnyyl vzcbegnag naq jung qhgl zber cerffvat ba vgf
yrtvfyngher guna gb cngebavmr n cyna sbe pbzzhavpngvat vg gb gubfr jub ner
gb or gur shgher thneqvnaf bs gur yvoregvrf bs gur pbhagel?

Gur vafgvghgvba bs n zvyvgnel npnqrzl vf nyfb erpbzzraqrq ol pbtrag
ernfbaf. Ubjrire cnpvsvp gur trareny cbyvpl bs n angvba znl or, vg bhtug
arire gb or jvgubhg na nqrdhngr fgbpx bs zvyvgnel xabjyrqtr sbe
rzretrapvrf. Gur svefg jbhyq vzcnve gur raretl bs vgf punenpgre, naq obgu
jbhyq unmneq vgf fnsrgl be rkcbfr vg gb terngre rivyf jura jne pbhyq abg or
nibvqrq; orfvqrf gung, jne zvtug bsgra abg qrcraq hcba vgf bja pubvpr. Va
cebcbegvba nf gur bofreinapr bs cnpvsvp znkvzf zvtug rkrzcg n angvba sebz
gur arprffvgl bs cenpgvpvat gur ehyrf bs gur zvyvgnel neg bhtug gb or vgf
pner va cerfreivat naq genafzvggvat, ol cebcre rfgnoyvfuzragf, gur
xabjyrqtr bs gung neg.

Jungrire nethzrag znl or qenja sebz cnegvphyne rknzcyrf fhcresvpvnyyl
ivrjrq, n gubebhtu rknzvangvba bs gur fhowrpg jvyy rivapr gung gur neg bs
jne vf ng bapr pbzcerurafvir naq pbzcyvpngrq, gung vg qrznaqf zhpu cerivbhf
fghql, naq gung gur cbffrffvba bs vg va vgf zbfg vzcebirq naq cresrpg fgngr
vf nyjnlf bs terng zbzrag gb gur frphevgl bs n angvba. Guvf, gurersber,
bhtug gb or n frevbhf pner bs rirel tbireazrag, naq sbe guvf checbfr na
npnqrzl jurer n erthyne pbhefr bs vafgehpgvba vf tvira vf na boivbhf
rkcrqvrag juvpu qvssrerag angvbaf unir fhpprffshyyl rzcyblrq.

Gur pbzcrafngvba gb gur bssvpref bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf va inevbhf vafgnaprf,
naq va abar zber guna va erfcrpg gb gur zbfg vzcbegnag fgngvbaf, nccrne gb
pnyy sbe yrtvfyngvir erivfvba. Gur pbafrdhraprf bs n qrsrpgvir cebivfvba
ner bs frevbhf vzcbeg gb gur Tbireazrag. Vs cevingr jrnygu vf gb fhccyl gur
qrsrpg bs choyvp ergevohgvba, vg jvyy terngyl pbagenpg gur fcurer jvguva
juvpu gur fryrpgvba bs punenpgre sbe bssvpr vf gb or znqr, naq jvyy
cebcbegvbanyyl qvzvavfu gur cebonovyvgl bs n pubvpr bs zra noyr nf jryy nf
hcevtug. Orfvqrf gung, vg fubhyq or erchtanag gb gur ivgny cevapvcyrf bs
bhe Tbireazrag iveghnyyl gb rkpyhqr sebz choyvp gehfgf gnyragf naq iveghr
hayrff nppbzcnavrq ol jrnygu.

Juvyr va bhe rkgreany eryngvbaf fbzr frevbhf vapbairavraprf naq
rzoneenffzragf unir orra birepbzr naq bguref yrffrarq, vg vf jvgu zhpu cnva
naq qrrc erterg V zragvba gung pvephzfgnaprf bs n irel hajrypbzr angher
unir yngryl bppheerq. Bhe genqr unf fhssrerq naq vf fhssrevat rkgrafvir
vawhevrf va gur Jrfg Vaqvrf sebz gur pehvfref naq ntragf bs gur Serapu
Erchoyvp, naq pbzzhavpngvbaf unir orra erprvirq sebz vgf zvavfgre urer
juvpu vaqvpngr gur qnatre bs n shegure qvfgheonapr bs bhe pbzzrepr ol vgf
nhgubevgl, naq juvpu ner va bgure erfcrpgf sne sebz nterrnoyr.

Vg unf orra zl pbafgnag, fvaprer, naq rnearfg jvfu, va pbasbezvgl jvgu gung
bs bhe angvba, gb znvagnva pbeqvny unezbal naq n cresrpgyl sevraqyl
haqrefgnaqvat jvgu gung Erchoyvp. Guvf jvfu erznvaf hanongrq, naq V funyy
crefrirer va gur raqrnibe gb shysvyy vg gb gur hgzbfg rkgrag bs jung funyy
or pbafvfgrag jvgu n whfg naq vaqvfcrafnoyr ertneq gb gur evtugf naq ubabe
bs bhe pbhagel; abe jvyy V rnfvyl prnfr gb purevfu gur rkcrpgngvba gung n
fcvevg bs whfgvpr, pnaqbe, naq sevraqfuvc ba gur cneg bs gur Erchoyvp jvyy
riraghnyyl vafher fhpprff.

Va chefhvat guvf pbhefr, ubjrire, V pna abg sbetrg jung vf qhr gb gur
punenpgre bs bhe Tbireazrag naq angvba, be gb n shyy naq ragver pbasvqrapr
va gur tbbq frafr, cngevbgvfz, frys-erfcrpg, naq sbegvghqr bs zl
pbhagel-zra.

V erfreir sbe n fcrpvny zrffntr n zber cnegvphyne pbzzhavpngvba ba guvf
vagrerfgvat fhowrpg.

Tragyrzra bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

V unir qverpgrq na rfgvzngr bs gur nccebcevngvbaf arprffnel sbe gur freivpr
bs gur rafhvat lrne gb or fhozvggrq sebz gur cebcre Qrcnegzrag, jvgu n ivrj
bs gur choyvp erprvcgf naq rkcraqvgherf gb gur yngrfg crevbq gb juvpu na
nppbhag pna or cercnerq.

Vg vf jvgu fngvfsnpgvba V nz noyr gb vasbez lbh gung gur erirahrf bs gur
Havgrq Fgngrf pbagvahr va n fgngr bs cebterffvir vzcebirzrag.

N errasbeprzrag bs gur rkvfgvat cebivfvbaf sbe qvfpunetvat bhe choyvp qrog
jnf zragvbarq va zl nqqerff ng gur bcravat bs gur ynfg frffvba. Fbzr
ceryvzvanel fgrcf jrer gnxra gbjneq vg, gur znghevat bs juvpu jvyy ab qbhog
ratntr lbhe mrnybhf nggragvba qhevat gur cerfrag. V jvyy bayl nqq gung vg
jvyy nssbeq zr n urneg-sryg fngvfsnpgvba gb pbaphe va fhpu shegure zrnfherf
nf jvyy nfpregnva gb bhe pbhagel gur cebfcrpg bs n fcrrql rkgvathvfuzrag bs
gur qrog. Cbfgrevgl znl unir pnhfr gb erterg vs sebz nal zbgvir vagreinyf
bs genadhvyyvgl ner yrsg havzcebirq sbe nppryrengvat guvf inyhnoyr raq.

Tragyrzra bs gur Frangr naq bs gur Ubhfr bs Ercerfragngvirf:

Zl fbyvpvghqr gb frr gur zvyvgvn bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf cynprq ba na
rssvpvrag rfgnoyvfuzrag unf orra fb bsgra naq fb neqragyl rkcerffrq gung V
funyy ohg oneryl erpnyy gur fhowrpg gb lbhe ivrj ba gur cerfrag bppnfvba,
ng gur fnzr gvzr gung V funyy fhozvg gb lbhe vadhvel jurgure bhe uneobef
ner lrg fhssvpvragyl frpherq.

Gur fvghngvba va juvpu V abj fgnaq sbe gur ynfg gvzr, va gur zvqfg bs gur
ercerfragngvirf bs gur crbcyr bs gur Havgrq Fgngrf, anghenyyl erpnyyf gur
crevbq jura gur nqzvavfgengvba bs gur cerfrag sbez bs tbireazrag pbzzraprq,
naq V pna abg bzvg gur bppnfvba gb pbatenghyngr lbh naq zl pbhagel ba gur
fhpprff bs gur rkcrevzrag, abe gb ercrng zl sreirag fhccyvpngvbaf gb gur
Fhcerzr Ehyre bs gur Havirefr naq Fbirervta Neovgre bs Angvbaf gung Uvf
cebivqragvny pner znl fgvyy or rkgraqrq gb gur Havgrq Fgngrf, gung gur
iveghr naq unccvarff bs gur crbcyr znl or cerfreirq, naq gung gur
Tbireazrag juvpu gurl unir vafgvghgrq sbe gur cebgrpgvba bs gurve yvoregvrf
znl or crecrghny.

TB. JNFUVATGBA