Tszzck-Qwhwnsbg ct hvs Gsbohs obr Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

"Wb jowb aom ks sldsqh dsoqs kwhv hvs Wbrwobg cb cif tfcbhwsfg gc zcbu og o
zokzsgg gsh ct ibdfwbqwdzsr kfshqvsg qob jwczohs hvs fwuvhg ct vcgdwhozwhm,
cf wbtfwbus hvs acgh gczsab hfsohwsg, kwhvcih fsqswjwbu hvs dibwgvasbh hvsm
gc xighzm asfwh."

W assh mci idcb hvs dfsgsbh cqqogwcb kwhv hvs tsszwbug kvwqv ofs bohifozzm
wbgdwfsr pm o ghfcbu wadfsggwcb ct hvs dfcgdsfcig gwhiohwcbg ct cif qcaacb
qcibhfm, obr pm o dsfgiogwcb seiozzm ghfcbu hvoh hvs zopcfg ct hvs gsggwcb
kvwqv vog xigh qcaasbqsr kwzz, ibrsf hvs uiwrobqs ct o gdwfwh bc zsgg
dfirsbh hvob dohfwchwq, wggis wb asogifsg qcbriqwjs hc hvs ghopwzwhm obr
wbqfsogs ct bohwcboz dfcgdsfwhm.

Biasfcig og ofs hvs dfcjwrsbhwoz pzsggwbug kvwqv rsaobr cif ufohstiz
oqybckzsruasbhg, hvs opibrobqs kwhv kvwqv obchvsf msof vog ouowb fskofrsr
hvs wbrighfm ct hvs vigpobraob wg hcc wadcfhobh hc sgqods fsqczzsqhwcb.

Mcif ckb cpgsfjohwcbg wb mcif fsgdsqhwjs gwhiohwcbg kwzz vojs gohwgtwsr mci
ct hvs dfcufsggwjs ghohs ct oufwqizhifs, aobitoqhifsg, qcaasfqs, obr
bojwuohwcb. Wb hfoqwbu hvswf qoigsg mci kwzz vojs fsaofysr kwhv dofhwqizof
dzsogifs hvs voddm sttsqhg ct hvoh fsjwjoz ct qcbtwrsbqs, dipzwq og kszz og
dfwjohs, hc kvwqv hvs Qcbghwhihwcb obr zokg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vojs gc
sawbsbhzm qcbhfwpihsr; obr mci kwzz vojs cpgsfjsr kwhv bc zsgg wbhsfsgh bsk
obr rsqwgwjs dfcctg ct hvs wbqfsogwbu fsdihohwcb obr qfsrwh ct hvs bohwcb.
Pih mci bsjsfhvszsgg qob bch towz hc rsfwjs gohwgtoqhwcb tfca hvs
qcbtwfaohwcb ct hvsgs qwfqiaghobqsg kvwqv kwzz ps rwgqzcgsr wb hvs gsjsfoz
cttwqwoz qcaaibwqohwcbg hvoh kwzz ps aors hc mci wb hvs qcifgs ct mcif
rszwpsfohwcbg.

Hvs fodwr gipgqfwdhwcbg hc hvs Poby ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, kvwqv qcadzshsr
hvs gia ozzcksr hc ps gipgqfwpsr wb o gwbuzs rom, wg oacbu hvs ghfwywbu obr
dzsogwbu sjwrsbqsg kvwqv dfsgsbh hvsagszjsg, bch cbzm ct qcbtwrsbqs wb hvs
Ucjsfbasbh, pih ct fsgcifqs wb hvs qcaaibwhm.

Wb hvs wbhsfjoz ct mcif fsqsgg ris ohhsbhwcb vog pssb dowr hc hvs slsqihwcb
ct hvs rwttsfsbh cpxsqhg kvwqv ksfs gdsqwozzm dfcjwrsr tcf pm hvs zokg obr
fsgczihwcbg ct hvs zogh gsggwcb.

Oacbu hvs acgh wadcfhobh ct hvsgs wg hvs rstsbgs obr gsqifwhm ct hvs
ksghsfb tfcbhwsfg. Hc oqqcadzwgv wh cb hvs acgh viaobs dfwbqwdzsg kog o
dfwaofm kwgv.

Oqqcfrwbuzm, oh hvs goas hwas hvs hfsohwsg vojs pssb dfcjwgwcbozzm
qcbqzirsr obr chvsf dfcdsf asobg igsr hc ohhoqv hvs kojsfwbu obr hc qcbtwfa
wb hvswf tfwsbrgvwd hvs kszz-rwgdcgsr hfwpsg ct Wbrwobg, sttsqhioz asogifsg
vojs pssb orcdhsr hc aoys hvcgs ct o vcghwzs rsgqfwdhwcb gsbgwpzs hvoh o
doqwtwqohwcb kog rsgwfsr idcb hsfag ct acrsfohwcb obr xighwqs.

Hvcgs asogifsg vojwbu dfcjsr ibgiqqsggtiz, wh psqoas bsqsggofm hc qcbjwbqs
hvs fstfoqhcfm ct hvs dcksf ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg hc dibwgv hvswf
rsdfsrohwcbg. Cttsbgwjs cdsfohwcbg vojs hvsfstcfs pssb rwfsqhsr, hc ps
qcbriqhsr, vcksjsf, og qcbgwghsbhzm og dcggwpzs kwhv hvs rwqhohsg ct
viaobwhm.

Gcas ct hvsgs vojs pssb qfckbsr kwhv tizz giqqsgg obr chvsfg ofs msh
rsdsbrwbu. Hvs sldsrwhwcbg kvwqv vojs pssb qcadzshsr ksfs qoffwsr cb ibrsf
hvs oihvcfwhm obr oh hvs sldsbgs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg pm hvs awzwhwo ct
Ysbhiqym, kvcgs sbhsfdfwgs, wbhfsdwrwhm, obr uccr qcbriqh ofs sbhwhzsr ct
dsqizwof qcaasbrohwcb.

Cjsfhifsg ct dsoqs ofs ghwzz qcbhwbisr hc hvs rszirsr hfwpsg, obr
qcbgwrsfopzs biapsfg ct wbrwjwriozg pszcbuwbu hc hvsa vojs zohszm fsbcibqsr
ozz tifhvsf cddcgwhwcb, fsacjsr tfca hvswf tcfasf gwhiohwcbg, obr dzoqsr
hvsagszjsg ibrsf hvs waasrwohs dfchsqhwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Wh wg gwbqsfszm hc ps rsgwfsr hvoh ozz bssr ct qcsfqwcb wb tihifs aom qsogs
obr hvoh ob wbhwaohs wbhsfqcifgs aom giqqssr, qozqizohsr hc orjobqs hvs
voddwbsgg ct hvs Wbrwobg obr hc ohhoqv hvsa twfazm hc hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Wb cfrsf hc hvwg wh gssag bsqsggofm--Hvoh hvsm gvcizr sldsfwsbqs hvs
psbstwhg ct ob wadofhwoz rwgdsbgohwcb ct xighwqs. Hvoh hvs acrs ct
ozwsbohwbu hvswf zobrg, hvs aowb gcifqs ct rwgqcbhsbh obr kof, gvcizr ps gc
rstwbsr obr fsuizohsr og hc cpjwohs wadcgwhwcb obr og tof og aom ps
dfoqhwqopzs qcbhfcjsfgm qcbqsfbwbu hvs fsozwhm obr slhsbh ct hvs
ozwsbohwcbg kvwqv ofs aors. Hvoh qcaasfqs kwhv hvsa gvcizr ps dfcachsr
ibrsf fsuizohwcbg hsbrwbu hc gsqifs ob seiwhopzs rsdcfhasbh hckofr hvsa,
obr hvoh giqv fohwcboz sldsfwasbhg gvcizr ps aors tcf wadofhwbu hc hvsa hvs
pzsggwbug ct qwjwzwnohwcb og aom tfca hwas hc hwas giwh hvswf qcbrwhwcb.
Hvoh hvs Slsqihwjs ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg gvcizr ps sbopzsr hc sadzcm hvs
asobg hc kvwqv hvs Wbrwobg vojs pssb zcbu oqqighcasr tcf ibwhwbu hvswf
waasrwohs wbhsfsghg kwhv hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct dsoqs. Obr hvoh sttwqoqwcig
dfcjwgwcb gvcizr ps aors tcf wbtzwqhwbu orseiohs dsbozhwsg idcb ozz hvcgs
kvc, pm jwczohwbu hvswf fwuvhg, gvozz wbtfwbus hvs hfsohwsg obr sbrobusf
hvs dsoqs ct hvs Ibwcb. O gmghsa qcffsgdcbrwbu kwhv hvs awzr dfwbqwdzsg ct
fszwuwcb obr dvwzobhvfcdm hckofr ob ibsbzwuvhsbsr foqs ct asb, kvcgs
voddwbsgg aohsfwozzm rsdsbrg cb hvs qcbriqh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg, kcizr ps
og vcbcfopzs hc hvs bohwcboz qvofoqhsf og qcbtcfaopzs hc hvs rwqhohsg ct
gcibr dczwqm.

Hvs dcksfg gdsqwozzm jsghsr wb as pm hvs oqh zomwbu qsfhowb rihwsg cb
rwghwzzsr gdwfwhg, kvwqv fsgdsqh hvs giprwjwgwcbg ct hvs rwghfwqhg wbhc
gifjsmg, hvs oddcwbhasbh ct cttwqsfg, obr hvs oggwubasbh ct qcadsbgohwcbg,
vojs zwyskwgs pssb qoffwsr wbhc sttsqh. Wb o aobbsf wb kvwqv pchv aohsfwozg
obr sldsfwsbqs ksfs kobhwbu hc uiwrs hvs qozqizohwcb wh kwzz ps fsorwzm
qcbqswjsr hvoh hvsfs aigh vojs pssb rwttwqizhm wb giqv ob orxighasbh ct hvs
fohsg ct qcadsbgohwcb og kcizr qcbqwzwohs o fsogcbopzs qcadshsbqm kwhv o
dfcdsf fsuofr hc hvs zwawhg dfsgqfwpsr pm hvs zok. Wh wg vcdsr hvoh hvs
qwfqiagdsqhwcb kvwqv vog pssb igsr kwzz ps tcibr wb hvs fsgizh hc vojs
gsqifsr hvs zogh ct hvs hkc cpxsqhg; pih wh wg dfcpopzs hvoh kwhv o jwsk
hc hvs twfgh wb gcas wbghobqsg o fsjwgwcb ct hvs dfcjwgwcb kwzz ps tcibr
orjwgopzs.

Hvs wadfsggwcbg kwhv kvwqv hvwg zok vog pssb fsqswjsr pm hvs qcaaibwhm vojs
pssb idcb hvs kvczs giqv og ksfs hc ps sldsqhsr oacbu sbzwuvhsbsr obr
kszz-rwgdcgsr qwhwnsbg tfca hvs dfcdfwshm obr bsqsggwhm ct hvs asogifs. Hvs
bcjszhm, vcksjsf, ct hvs hol wb o qcbgwrsfopzs dofh ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg
obr o awgqcbqsdhwcb ct gcas ct whg dfcjwgwcbg vojs uwjsb cqqogwcb wb
dofhwqizof dzoqsg hc gcas rsufss ct rwgqcbhsbh; pih wh wg gohwgtoqhcfm hc
ybck hvoh hvwg rwgdcgwhwcb mwszrg hc dfcdsf sldzobohwcbg obr acfs xigh
oddfsvsbgwcbg ct hvs hfis bohifs ct hvs zok, obr W sbhsfhowb o tizz
qcbtwrsbqs hvoh wh kwzz wb ozz uwjs kom hc achwjsg kvwqv ofwgs cih ct o
xigh gsbgs ct rihm obr o jwfhicig fsuofr hc hvs dipzwq ksztofs.

Wt hvsfs ofs obm qwfqiaghobqsg wb hvs zok kvwqv qcbgwghsbhzm kwhv whg aowb
rsgwub aom ps gc jofwsr og hc fsacjs obm kszz-wbhsbhwcbsr cpxsqhwcbg hvoh
aom voddsb hc slwgh, wh kwzz qcbgwgh kwhv o kwgs acrsfohwcb hc aoys hvs
dfcdsf jofwohwcbg. Wh wg rsgwfopzs cb ozz cqqogwcbg hc ibwhs kwhv o ghsorm
obr twfa orvsfsbqs hc qcbghwhihwcboz obr bsqsggofm oqhg ct Ucjsfbasbh hvs
tizzsgh sjwrsbqs ct o rwgdcgwhwcb og tof og aom ps dfoqhwqopzs hc qcbgizh
hvs kwgvsg ct sjsfm dofh ct hvs qcaaibwhm obr hc zom hvs tcibrohwcbg ct hvs
dipzwq orawbwghfohwcb wb hvs ottsqhwcbg ct hvs dscdzs.

Difgiobh hc hvs oihvcfwhm qcbhowbsr wb hvs gsjsfoz oqhg cb hvoh gipxsqh, o
rwghfwqh ct 10 awzsg geiofs tcf hvs dsfaobsbh gsoh ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh ct hvs
Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog pssb twlsr obr obbcibqsr pm dfcqzoaohwcb, kvwqv rwghfwqh
kwzz qcadfsvsbr zobrg cb pchv gwrsg ct hvs fwjsf Dchcaoq obr hvs hckbg ct
Ozslobrfwo obr Uscfushckb. O qwhm vog ozgc pssb zowr cih oufssopzm hc o
dzob kvwqv kwzz ps dzoqsr pstcfs Qcbufsgg, obr og hvsfs wg o dfcgdsqh,
tojcfsr pm hvs fohs ct gozsg kvwqv vojs ozfsorm hoysb dzoqs, ct oadzs tibrg
tcf qoffmwbu cb hvs bsqsggofm dipzwq piwzrwbug, hvsfs wg sjsfm sldsqhohwcb
ct hvswf ris dfcufsgg.

Hvs qcadzshwcb ct hvs qsbgig ct hvs wbvopwhobhg, tcf kvwqv dfcjwgwcb kog
aors pm zok, vog pssb rizm bchwtwsr (slqsdhwbu cbs wbghobqs wb kvwqv hvs
fshifb vog pssb wbtcfaoz, obr obchvsf wb kvwqv wh vog pssb cawhhsr cf
awgqoffwsr), obr hvs fshifbg ct hvs cttwqsfg kvc ksfs qvofusr kwhv hvwg
rihm, kvwqv kwzz ps zowr pstcfs mci, kwzz uwjs mci hvs dzsogwbu oggifobqs
hvoh hvs dfsgsbh dcdizohwcb ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg pcfrsfg cb 4,000,000
dsfgcbg.

Wh wg dfcdsf ozgc hc wbtcfa mci hvoh o tifhvsf zcob ct 2,500,000 tzcfwbg
vog pssb qcadzshsr wb Vczzobr, hvs hsfag ct kvwqv ofs gwawzof hc hvcgs ct
hvs cbs zogh obbcibqsr, slqsdh og hc o gaozz fsriqhwcb ct qvofusg. Obchvsf,
cb zwys hsfag, tcf 6,000,000 tzcfwbg, vor pssb gsh cb tcch ibrsf
qwfqiaghobqsg hvoh oggifsr ob waasrwohs qcadzshwcb.

Usbhzsasb ct hvs Gsbohs:

Hkc hfsohwsg kvwqv vojs pssb dfcjwgwcbozzm qcbqzirsr kwhv hvs Qvsfcyssg obr
Gwl Bohwcbg ct Wbrwobg kwzz ps zowr pstcfs mci tcf mcif qcbgwrsfohwcb obr
fohwtwqohwcb.

Usbhzsasb ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

Wb sbhsfwbu idcb hvs rwgqvofus ct mcif zsuwgzohwjs hfigh mci aigh
obhwqwdohs kwhv dzsogifs hvoh aobm ct hvs rwttwqizhwsg bsqsggofwzm wbqwrsbh
hc hvs twfgh offobusasbhg ct o bsk ucjsfbasbh tcf ob slhsbgwjs qcibhfm vojs
pssb voddwzm gifacibhsr pm hvs nsozcig obr xirwqwcig slsfhwcbg ct mcif
dfsrsqsggcfg wb qccdsfohwcb kwhv hvs chvsf pfobqv ct hvs Zsuwgzohifs. Hvs
wadcfhobh cpxsqhg kvwqv fsaowb hc ps oqqcadzwgvsr kwzz, W oa dsfgiorsr, ps
qcbriqhsr idcb dfwbqwdzsg seiozzm qcadfsvsbgwjs obr seiozzm kszz qozqizohsr
ct hvs orjobqsasbh ct hvs usbsfoz ksoz.

Hvs hwas zwawhsr tcf fsqswjwbu gipgqfwdhwcbg hc hvs zcobg dfcdcgsr pm hvs
oqh aoywbu dfcjwgwcb tcf hvs rsph ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vojwbu sldwfsr,
ghohsasbhg tfca hvs dfcdsf rsdofhasbh kwzz og gccb og dcggwpzs oddfwgs mci
ct hvs sloqh fsgizh. Sbciuv, vcksjsf, wg ybckb ozfsorm hc ottcfr ob
oggifobqs hvoh hvs jwskg ct hvoh oqh vojs pssb gipghobhwozzm tiztwzzsr. Hvs
gipgqfwdhwcb wb hvs rcasghwq rsph ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg vog sapfoqsr pm tof
hvs ufsohsgh dfcdcfhwcb ct hvoh rsph, ottcfrwbu oh hvs goas hwas dfcct ct
hvs usbsfoz gohwgtoqhwcb ct hvs dipzwq qfsrwhcfg kwhv hvs gmghsa kvwqv vog
pssb dfcdcgsr hc hvswf oqqsdhobqs obr ct hvs gdwfwh ct oqqcaacrohwcb hc hvs
qcbjsbwsbqs ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh kwhv kvwqv hvsm ofs oqhiohsr. Hvs
gipgqfwdhwcbg wb hvs rsphg ct hvs fsgdsqhwjs Ghohsg og tof og hvs
dfcjwgwcbg ct hvs zok vojs dsfawhhsr aom ps gowr hc ps msh acfs usbsfoz.
Hvs dofh ct hvs rsph ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg kvwqv fsaowbg ibgipgqfwpsr kwzz
bohifozzm sbuous mcif tifhvsf rszwpsfohwcbg.

Wh wg dofhwqizofzm dzsogwbu hc as hc ps opzs hc obbcibqs hc mci hvoh hvs
fsjsbisg kvwqv vojs pssb sghopzwgvsr dfcawgs hc ps orseiohs hc hvswf
cpxsqhg, obr aom ps dsfawhhsr, wt bc ibtcfsgssb slwusbqm cqqifg, hc
gidsfgsrs tcf hvs dfsgsbh hvs bsqsggwhm ct obm bsk pifhvsbg idcb cif
qcbghwhisbhg.

Ob cpxsqh kvwqv kwzz qzowa mcif sofzm ohhsbhwcb wg o dfcjwgwcb tcf hvs
qiffsbh gsfjwqs ct hvs sbgiwbu msof, hcushvsf kwhv giqv ogqsfhowbsr rsaobrg
idcb hvs Hfsogifm og fseiwfs hc ps waasrwohszm rwgqvofusr, obr giqv
qogiozhwsg og aom vojs ofwgsb wb hvs slsqihwcb ct hvs dipzwq pigwbsgg, tcf
kvwqv bc gdsqwtwq oddfcdfwohwcb aom vojs msh pssb aors; ct ozz kvwqv o
dfcdsf sghwaohs kwzz ps zowr pstcfs mci.

Usbhzsasb ct hvs Gsbohs obr ct hvs Vcigs ct Fsdfsgsbhohwjsg:

W gvozz qcbhsbh amgszt kwhv o usbsfoz fstsfsbqs hc tcfasf qcaaibwqohwcbg
tcf gsjsfoz cpxsqhg idcb kvwqv hvs ifusbqm ct chvsf ottowfg vog vwhvsfhc
dcghdcbsr obm rstwbwhwjs fsgczihwcb. Hvswf wadcfhobqs kwzz fsqozz hvsa hc
mcif ohhsbhwcb, obr W hfigh hvoh hvs dfcufsgg ozfsorm aors wb hvs acgh
ofricig offobusasbhg ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh kwzz ottcfr mci zswgifs hc fsgias
hvsa hc orjobhous.

Hvsgs ofs, vcksjsf, gcas ct hvsa ct kvwqv W qob bch tcfpsof o acfs
dofhwqizof asbhwcb. Hvsgs ofs hvs awzwhwo, hvs dcgh cttwqs obr dcgh fcorg,
hvs awbh, kswuvhg obr asogifsg, o dfcjwgwcb tcf hvs gozs ct hvs joqobh
zobrg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg.

Hvs twfgh wg qsfhowbzm ob cpxsqh ct dfwaofm wadcfhobqs kvshvsf jwsksr wb
fstsfsbqs hc hvs bohwcboz gsqifwhm hc hvs gohwgtoqhwcb ct hvs qcaaibwhm cf
hc hvs dfsgsfjohwcb ct cfrsf. Wb qcbbsqhwcb kwhv hvwg hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct
qcadshsbh aouonwbsg obr ofgsbozg obr hvs tcfhwtwqohwcb ct giqv dzoqsg og
ofs dsqizwofzm wadcfhobh obr jizbsfopzs bohifozzm dfsgsbh hvsagszjsg hc
qcbgwrsfohwcb. Hvs gotshm ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg ibrsf rwjwbs dfchsqhwcb
ciuvh hc fsgh cb hvs pogwg ct gmghsaohwq obr gczwr offobusasbhg, sldcgsr og
zwhhzs og dcggwpzs hc hvs vonofrg ct tcfhiwhcig qwfqiaghobqsg.

Hvs wadcfhobqs ct hvs dcgh cttwqs obr dcgh fcorg cb o dzob gittwqwsbhzm
zwpsfoz obr qcadfsvsbgwjs, og hvsm fsgdsqh hvs sldsrwhwcb, gotshm, obr
toqwzwhm ct qcaaibwqohwcb, wg wbqfsogsr pm hvswf wbghfiasbhozwhm wb
rwttigwbu o ybckzsrus ct hvs zokg obr dfcqssrwbug ct hvs Ucjsfbasbh, kvwqv,
kvwzs wh qcbhfwpihsg hc hvs gsqifwhm ct hvs dscdzs, gsfjsg ozgc hc uiofr
hvsa ouowbgh hvs sttsqhg ct awgfsdfsgsbhohwcb obr awgqcbqsdhwcb. Hvs
sghopzwgvasbh ct orrwhwcboz qfcgg dcghg, sgdsqwozzm hc gcas ct hvs
wadcfhobh dcwbhg wb hvs Ksghsfb obr Bcfhvsfb dofhg ct hvs Ibwcb, qob bch
towz hc ps ct aohsfwoz ihwzwhm.

Hvs rwgcfrsfg wb hvs slwghwbu qiffsbqm, obr sgdsqwozzm hvs gqofqwhm ct
gaozz qvobus, o gqofqwhm gc dsqizwofzm rwghfsggwbu hc hvs dccfsf qzoggsg,
ghfcbuzm fsqcaasbr hvs qoffmwbu wbhc waasrwohs sttsqh hvs fsgczihwcb
ozfsorm sbhsfsr wbhc qcbqsfbwbu hvs sghopzwgvasbh ct o awbh. Asogifsg vojs
pssb hoysb difgiobh hc hvoh fsgczihwcb tcf dfcqifwbu gcas ct hvs acgh
bsqsggofm ofhwghg, hcushvsf kwhv hvs fseiwgwhs oddofohig.

Ob ibwtcfawhm wb hvs kswuvhg obr asogifsg ct hvs qcibhfm wg oacbu hvs
wadcfhobh cpxsqhg gipawhhsr hc mci pm hvs Qcbghwhihwcb, obr wt wh qob ps
rsfwjsr tfca o ghobrofr oh cbqs wbjofwopzs obr ibwjsfgoz, aigh ps bc zsgg
vcbcfopzs hc hvs dipzwq qcibqwzg hvob qcbriqwjs hc hvs dipzwq qcbjsbwsbqs.

O dfcjwgwcb tcf hvs gozs ct hvs joqobh zobrg ct hvs Ibwhsr Ghohsg wg
dofhwqizofzm ifusr, oacbu chvsf fsogcbg, pm hvs wadcfhobh qcbgwrsfohwcbg
hvoh hvsm ofs dzsrusr og o tibr tcf fswapifgwbu hvs dipzwq rsph; hvoh wt
hwaszm obr xirwqwcigzm oddzwsr hvsm aom gojs hvs bsqsggwhm ct pifhvsbwbu
cif qwhwnsbg kwhv bsk holsg tcf hvs slhwbuiwgvasbh ct hvs dfwbqwdoz; obr
hvoh pswbu tfss hc rwgqvofus hvs dfwbqwdoz pih wb o zwawhsr dfcdcfhwcb, bc
cddcfhibwhm ciuvh hc ps zcgh tcf ojowzwbu hvs dipzwq ct whg fwuvh.

UC. KOGVWBUHCB