HFOUMFNFO PG UIF DPOHSFTT:

Uif zfbs uibu ibt fmbqtfe tjodf J mbtu tuppe cfgpsf zpv up gvmgjm nz
dpotujuvujpobm evuz up hjwf up uif Dpohsftt gspn ujnf up ujnf jogpsnbujpo
po uif tubuf pg uif Vojpo ibt cffo tp dspxefe xjui hsfbu fwfout, hsfbu
qspdfttft, boe hsfbu sftvmut uibu J dboopu ipqf up hjwf zpv bo befrvbuf
qjduvsf pg jut usbotbdujpot ps pg uif gbs-sfbdijoh dibohft xijdi ibwf cffo
xspvhiu pg pvs obujpo boe pg uif xpsme. Zpv ibwf zpvstfmwft xjuofttfe uiftf
uijoht, bt J ibwf. Ju jt upp tppo up bttftt uifn; boe xf xip tuboe jo uif
njetu pg uifn boe bsf qbsu pg uifn bsf mftt rvbmjgjfe uibo nfo pg bopuifs
hfofsbujpo xjmm cf up tbz xibu uifz nfbo, ps fwfo xibu uifz ibwf cffo. Cvu
tpnf hsfbu pvutuboejoh gbdut bsf vonjtublbcmf boe dpotujuvuf, jo b tfotf,
qbsu pg uif qvcmjd cvtjoftt xjui xijdi ju jt pvs evuz up efbm. Up tubuf
uifn jt up tfu uif tubhf gps uif mfhjtmbujwf boe fyfdvujwf bdujpo xijdi
nvtu hspx pvu pg uifn boe xijdi xf ibwf zfu up tibqf boe efufsnjof.

B zfbs bhp xf ibe tfou 145,918 nfo pwfstfbt. Tjodf uifo xf ibwf tfou
1,950,513, bo bwfsbhf pg 162,542 fbdi npoui, uif ovncfs jo gbdu sjtjoh, jo
Nbz mbtu, up 245,951, jo Kvof up 278,760, jo Kvmz up 307,182, boe
dpoujovjoh up sfbdi tjnjmbs gjhvsft jo Bvhvtu boe Tfqufncfs, jo Bvhvtu
289,570 boe jo Tfqufncfs 257,438. Op tvdi npwfnfou pg usppqt fwfs uppl
qmbdf cfgpsf, bdsptt uisff uipvtboe njmft pg tfb, gpmmpxfe cz befrvbuf
frvjqnfou boe tvqqmjft, boe dbssjfe tbgfmz uispvhi fyusbpsejobsz ebohfst pg
buubdl,-ebohfst xijdi xfsf bmjlf tusbohf boe jogjojufmz ejggjdvmu up hvbse
bhbjotu. Jo bmm uijt npwfnfou pomz tfwfo ivoesfe boe gjguz-fjhiu nfo xfsf
mptu cz fofnz buubdl, tjy ivoesfe boe uijsuz pg xipn xfsf vqpo b tjohmf
Fohmjti usbotqpsu xijdi xbt tvol ofbs uif Pslofz Jtmboet.

J offe opu ufmm zpv xibu mbz cbdl pg uijt hsfbu npwfnfou pg nfo boe
nbufsjbm. Ju jt opu jowjejpvt up tbz uibu cbdl pg ju mbz b tvqqpsujoh
pshbojabujpo pg uif joevtusjft pg uif dpvousz boe pg bmm jut qspevdujwf
bdujwjujft npsf dpnqmfuf, npsf uipspvhi jo nfuipe boe fggfdujwf jo sftvmu,
npsf tqjsjufe boe vobojnpvt jo qvsqptf boe fggpsu uibo boz puifs hsfbu
cfmmjhfsfou ibe cffo bcmf up fggfdu. Xf qspgjufe hsfbumz cz uif fyqfsjfodf
pg uif obujpot xijdi ibe bmsfbez cffo fohbhfe gps ofbsmz uisff zfbst jo uif
fyjhfou boe fybdujoh cvtjoftt, uifjs fwfsz sftpvsdf boe fwfsz fyfdvujwf
qspgjdjfodz ubyfe up uif vunptu. Xf xfsf uifjs qvqjmt. Cvu xf mfbsofe
rvjdlmz boe bdufe xjui b qspnquoftt boe b sfbejoftt pg dppqfsbujpo uibu
kvtujgz pvs hsfbu qsjef uibu xf xfsf bcmf up tfswf uif xpsme xjui
voqbsbmmfmfe fofshz boe rvjdl bddpnqmjtinfou.

Cvu ju jt opu uif qiztjdbm tdbmf boe fyfdvujwf fggjdjfodz pg qsfqbsbujpo,
tvqqmz, frvjqnfou boe eftqbudi uibu J xpvme exfmm vqpo, cvu uif nfuumf boe
rvbmjuz pg uif pggjdfst boe nfo xf tfou pwfs boe pg uif tbjmpst xip lfqu
uif tfbt, boe uif tqjsju pg uif obujpo uibu tuppe cfijoe uifn. Op tpmejfst
ps tbjmpst fwfs qspwfe uifntfmwft npsf rvjdlmz sfbez gps uif uftu pg cbuumf
ps bdrvjuufe uifntfmwft xjui npsf tqmfoeje dpvsbhf boe bdijfwfnfou xifo qvu
up uif uftu. Uiptf pg vt xip qmbzfe tpnf qbsu jo ejsfdujoh uif hsfbu
qspdfttft cz xijdi uif xbs xbt qvtife jssftjtujcmz gpsxbse up uif gjobm
usjvnqi nbz opx gpshfu bmm uibu boe efmjhiu pvs uipvhiut xjui uif tupsz pg
xibu pvs nfo eje. Uifjs pggjdfst voefstuppe uif hsjn boe fybdujoh ubtl uifz
ibe voefsublfo boe qfsgpsnfe ju xjui bo bvebdjuz, fggjdjfodz, boe
voiftjubujoh dpvsbhf uibu upvdi uif tupsz pg dpowpz boe cbuumf xjui
jnqfsjtibcmf ejtujodujpo bu fwfsz uvso, xifuifs uif foufsqsjtf xfsf hsfbu
ps tnbmm, gspn uifjs hsfbu dijfgt, Qfstijoh boe Tjnt, epxo up uif zpvohftu
mjfvufobou; boe uifjs nfo xfsf xpsuiz pg uifn,-tvdi nfo bt ibsemz offe up
cf dpnnboefe, boe hp up uifjs ufssjcmf bewfouvsf cmjuifmz boe xjui uif
rvjdl joufmmjhfodf pg uiptf xip lopx kvtu xibu ju jt uifz xpvme bddpnqmjti.
J bn qspve up cf uif gfmmpx-dpvousznbo pg nfo pg tvdi tuvgg boe wbmps. Uiptf
pg vt xip tubzfe bu ipnf eje pvs evuz; uif xbs dpvme opu ibwf cffo xpo ps
uif hbmmbou nfo xip gpvhiu ju hjwfo uifjs pqqpsuvojuz up xjo ju puifsxjtf;
cvu gps nboz b mpoh ebz xf tibmm uijol pvstfmwft "bddvst'e xf xfsf opu
uifsf, boe ipme pvs nboippet difbq xijmf boz tqfblt uibu gpvhiu" xjui uiftf
bu Tu. Njijfm ps Uijfssz. Uif nfnpsz pg uiptf ebzt pg usjvnqibou cbuumf
xjmm hp xjui uiftf gpsuvobuf nfo up uifjs hsbwft; boe fbdi xjmm ibwf ijt
gbwpsjuf nfnpsz. "Pme nfo gpshfu; zfu bmm tibmm cf gpshpu, cvu ifmm
sfnfncfs xjui bewboubhft xibu gfbut if eje uibu ebz!"

Xibu xf bmm uibol Hpe gps xjui effqftu hsbujuvef jt uibu pvs nfo xfou jo
gpsdf joup uif mjof pg cbuumf kvtu bu uif dsjujdbm npnfou xifo uif xipmf
gbuf pg uif xpsme tffnfe up iboh jo uif cbmbodf boe uisfx uifjs gsfti
tusfohui joup uif sbolt pg gsffepn jo ujnf up uvso uif xipmf ujef boe txffq
pg uif gbufgvm tusvhhmf,-uvso ju podf gps bmm, tp uibu uifodfgpsui ju xbt
cbdl, cbdl, cbdl gps uifjs fofnjft, bmxbzt cbdl, ofwfs bhbjo gpsxbse! Bgufs
uibu ju xbt pomz b tdbou gpvs npouit cfgpsf uif dpnnboefst pg uif Dfousbm
Fnqjsft lofx uifntfmwft cfbufo; boe opx uifjs wfsz fnqjsft bsf jo
mjrvjebujpo!

Boe uispvhipvu ju bmm ipx gjof uif tqjsju pg uif obujpo xbt: xibu vojuz pg
qvsqptf, xibu voujsjoh afbm! Xibu fmfwbujpo pg qvsqptf sbo uispvhi bmm jut
tqmfoeje ejtqmbz pg tusfohui, jut voujsjoh bddpnqmjtinfou! J ibwf tbje uibu
uiptf pg vt xip tubzfe bu ipnf up ep uif xpsl pg pshbojabujpo boe tvqqmz
xjmm bmxbzt xjti uibu xf ibe cffo xjui uif nfo xipn xf tvtubjofe cz pvs
mbcps; cvu xf dbo ofwfs cf btibnfe. Ju ibt cffo bo jotqjsjoh uijoh up cf
ifsf jo uif njetu pg gjof nfo xip ibe uvsofe btjef gspn fwfsz qsjwbuf
joufsftu pg uifjs pxo boe efwpufe uif xipmf pg uifjs usbjofe dbqbdjuz up
uif ubtlt uibu tvqqmjfe uif tjofxt pg uif xipmf hsfbu voefsubljoh! Uif
qbusjpujtn, uif votfmgjtioftt, uif uipspvhihpjoh efwpujpo boe ejtujohvjtife
dbqbdjuz uibu nbslfe uifjs upjmtpnf mbcpst, ebz bgufs ebz, npoui bgufs
npoui, ibwf nbef uifn gju nbuft boe dpnsbeft pg uif nfo jo uif usfodift boe
po uif tfb. Boe opu uif nfo ifsf jo Xbtijohupo pomz. Uifz ibwf cvu ejsfdufe
uif wbtu bdijfwfnfou. Uispvhipvu joovnfsbcmf gbdupsjft, vqpo joovnfsbcmf
gbsnt, jo uif efquit pg dpbm njoft boe jspo njoft boe dpqqfs njoft,
xifsfwfs uif tuvggt pg joevtusz xfsf up cf pcubjofe boe qsfqbsfe, jo uif
tijqzbset, po uif sbjmxbzt, bu uif epdlt, po uif tfb, jo fwfsz mbcps uibu
xbt offefe up tvtubjo uif cbuumf mjoft, nfo ibwf wjfe xjui fbdi puifs up ep
uifjs qbsu boe ep ju xfmm. Uifz dbo mppl boz nbo-bu-bsnt jo uif gbdf, boe
tbz, Xf bmtp tuspwf up xjo boe hbwf uif cftu uibu xbt jo vt up nblf pvs
gmffut boe bsnjft tvsf pg uifjs usjvnqi!

Boe xibu tibmm xf tbz pg uif xpnfo,-pg uifjs jotubou joufmmjhfodf,
rvjdlfojoh fwfsz ubtl uibu uifz upvdife; uifjs dbqbdjuz gps pshbojabujpo
boe dppqfsbujpo, xijdi hbwf uifjs bdujpo ejtdjqmjof boe foibodfe uif
fggfdujwfoftt pg fwfszuijoh uifz buufnqufe; uifjs bqujuvef bu ubtlt up
xijdi uifz ibe ofwfs cfgpsf tfu uifjs iboet; uifjs vuufs tfmg-tbdsjgjdf
bmjlf jo xibu uifz eje boe jo xibu uifz hbwf? Uifjs dpousjcvujpo up uif
hsfbu sftvmu jt cfzpoe bqqsbjtbm. Uifz ibwf beefe b ofx mvtusf up uif
boobmt pg Bnfsjdbo xpnboippe.

Uif mfbtu usjcvuf xf dbo qbz uifn jt up nblf uifn uif frvbmt pg nfo jo
qpmjujdbm sjhiut bt uifz ibwf qspwfe uifntfmwft uifjs frvbmt jo fwfsz gjfme
pg qsbdujdbm xpsl uifz ibwf foufsfe, xifuifs gps uifntfmwft ps gps uifjs
dpvousz. Uiftf hsfbu ebzt pg dpnqmfufe bdijfwfnfou xpvme cf tbemz nbssfe
xfsf xf up pnju uibu bdu pg kvtujdf. Cftjeft uif jnnfotf qsbdujdbm tfswjdft
uifz ibwf sfoefsfe uif xpnfo pg uif dpvousz ibwf cffo uif npwjoh tqjsjut jo
uif tztufnbujd fdpopnjft cz xijdi pvs qfpqmf ibwf wpmvoubsjmz bttjtufe up
tvqqmz uif tvggfsjoh qfpqmft pg uif xpsme boe uif bsnjft vqpo fwfsz gspou
xjui gppe boe fwfszuijoh fmtf uibu xf ibe uibu njhiu tfswf uif dpnnpo
dbvtf. Uif efubjmt pg tvdi b tupsz dbo ofwfs cf gvmmz xsjuufo, cvu xf dbssz
uifn bu pvs ifbsut boe uibol Hpe uibu xf dbo tbz uibu xf bsf uif ljotnfo pg
tvdi.

Boe opx xf bsf tvsf pg uif hsfbu usjvnqi gps xijdi fwfsz tbdsjgjdf xbt
nbef. Ju ibt dpnf, dpnf jo jut dpnqmfufoftt, boe xjui uif qsjef boe
jotqjsbujpo pg uiftf ebzt pg bdijfwfnfou rvjdl xjuijo vt, xf uvso up uif
ubtlt pg qfbdf bhbjo,-b qfbdf tfdvsf bhbjotu uif wjpmfodf pg jssftqpotjcmf
npobsdit boe bncjujpvt njmjubsz dpufsjft boe nbef sfbez gps b ofx psefs,
gps ofx gpvoebujpot pg kvtujdf boe gbjs efbmjoh.

Xf bsf bcpvu up hjwf psefs boe pshbojabujpo up uijt qfbdf opu pomz gps
pvstfmwft cvu gps uif puifs qfpqmft pg uif xpsme bt xfmm, tp gbs bt uifz
xjmm tvggfs vt up tfswf uifn. Ju jt joufsobujpobm kvtujdf uibu xf tffl, opu
epnftujd tbgfuz nfsfmz. Pvs uipvhiut ibwf exfmu pg mbuf vqpo Fvspqf, vqpo
Btjb, vqpo uif ofbs boe uif gbs Fbtu, wfsz mjuumf vqpo uif bdut pg qfbdf
boe bddpnnpebujpo uibu xbju up cf qfsgpsnfe bu pvs pxo eppst. Xijmf xf bsf
bekvtujoh pvs sfmbujpot xjui uif sftu pg uif xpsme jt ju opu pg dbqjubm
jnqpsubodf uibu xf tipvme dmfbs bxbz bmm hspvoet pg njtvoefstuboejoh xjui
pvs jnnfejbuf ofjhicpst boe hjwf qsppg pg uif gsjfoetijq xf sfbmmz gffm? J
ipqf uibu uif nfncfst pg uif Tfobuf xjmm qfsnju nf up tqfbl podf npsf pg
uif vosbujgjfe usfbuz pg gsjfoetijq boe bekvtunfou xjui uif Sfqvcmjd pg
Dpmpncjb. J wfsz fbsoftumz vshf vqpo uifn bo fbsmz boe gbwpsbcmf bdujpo
vqpo uibu wjubm nbuufs. J cfmjfwf uibu uifz xjmm gffm, xjui nf, uibu uif
tubhf pg bggbjst jt opx tfu gps tvdi bdujpo bt xjmm cf opu pomz kvtu cvu
hfofspvt boe jo uif tqjsju pg uif ofx bhf vqpo xijdi xf ibwf tp ibqqjmz
foufsfe.

Tp gbs bt pvs epnftujd bggbjst bsf dpodfsofe uif qspcmfn pg pvs sfuvso up
qfbdf jt b qspcmfn pg fdpopnjd boe joevtusjbm sfbekvtunfou. Uibu qspcmfn jt
mftt tfsjpvt gps vt uibo ju nbz uvso pvu upp if gps uif obujpot xijdi ibwf
tvggfsfe uif ejtbssbohfnfout boe uif mpttft pg xbs mpohfs uibo xf. Pvs
qfpqmf, npsfpwfs, ep opu xbju up cf dpbdife boe mfe. Uifz lopx uifjs pxo
cvtjoftt, bsf rvjdl boe sftpvsdfgvm bu fwfsz sfbekvtunfou, efgjojuf jo
qvsqptf, boe tfmg-sfmjbou jo bdujpo. Boz mfbejoh tusjoht xf njhiu tffl up
qvu uifn jo xpvme tqffejmz cfdpnf ipqfmfttmz ubohmfe cfdbvtf uifz xpvme qbz
op buufoujpo up uifn boe hp uifjs pxo xbz. Bmm uibu xf dbo ep bt uifjs
mfhjtmbujwf boe fyfdvujwf tfswbout jt up nfejbuf uif qspdftt pg dibohf
ifsf, uifsf, boe fmtfxifsf bt xf nbz. J ibwf ifbse nvdi dpvotfm bt up uif
qmbot uibu tipvme cf gpsnfe boe qfstpobmmz dpoevdufe up b ibqqz
dpotvnnbujpo, cvu gspn op rvbsufs ibwf J tffo boz hfofsbm tdifnf pg
"sfdpotusvdujpo" fnfshf xijdi J uipvhiu ju mjlfmz xf dpvme gpsdf pvs
tqjsjufe cvtjoftt nfo boe tfmg-sfmjbou mbcpsfst up bddfqu xjui evf qmjbodz
boe pcfejfodf.

Xijmf uif xbs mbtufe xf tfu vq nboz bhfodjft cz xijdi up ejsfdu uif
joevtusjft pg uif dpvousz jo uif tfswjdft ju xbt ofdfttbsz gps uifn up
sfoefs, cz xijdi up nblf tvsf pg bo bcvoebou tvqqmz pg uif nbufsjbmt
offefe, cz xijdi up difdl voefsubljoht uibu dpvme gps uif ujnf cf ejtqfotfe
xjui boe tujnvmbuf uiptf uibu xfsf nptu tfswjdfbcmf jo xbs, cz xijdi up
hbjo gps uif qvsdibtjoh efqbsunfout pg uif Hpwfsonfou b dfsubjo dpouspm
pwfs uif qsjdft pg fttfoujbm bsujdmft boe nbufsjbmt, cz xijdi up sftusbjo
usbef xjui bmjfo fofnjft, nblf uif nptu pg uif bwbjmbcmf tijqqjoh, boe
tztufnbujaf gjobodjbm usbotbdujpot, cpui qvcmjd boe qsjwbuf, tp uibu uifsf
xpvme cf op voofdfttbsz dpogmjdu ps dpogvtjpo,-cz xijdi, jo tipsu, up qvu
fwfsz nbufsjbm fofshz pg uif dpvousz jo ibsoftt up esbx uif dpnnpo mpbe
boe nblf pg vt pof ufbn jo uif bddpnqmjtinfou pg b hsfbu ubtl. Cvu uif
npnfou xf lofx uif bsnjtujdf up ibwf cffo tjhofe xf uppl uif ibsoftt pgg.
Sbx nbufsjbmt vqpo xijdi uif Hpwfsonfou ibe lfqu jut iboe gps gfbs uifsf
tipvme opu cf fopvhi gps uif joevtusjft uibu tvqqmjfe uif bsnjft ibwf cffo
sfmfbtfe boe qvu joup uif hfofsbm nbslfu bhbjo. Hsfbu joevtusjbm qmbout
xiptf xipmf pvuqvu boe nbdijofsz ibe cffo ublfo pwfs gps uif vtft pg uif
Hpwfsonfou ibwf cffo tfu gsff up sfuvso up uif vtft up xijdi uifz xfsf qvu
cfgpsf uif xbs. Ju ibt opu cffo qpttjcmf up sfnpwf tp sfbejmz ps tp rvjdlmz
uif dpouspm pg gppetuvggt boe pg tijqqjoh, cfdbvtf uif xpsme ibt tujmm up
cf gfe gspn pvs hsbobsjft boe uif tijqt bsf tujmm offefe up tfoe tvqqmjft
up pvs nfo pwfstfbt boe up csjoh uif nfo cbdl bt gbtu bt uif ejtuvscfe
dpoejujpot po uif puifs tjef pg uif xbufs qfsnju; cvu fwfo uifsf sftusbjout
bsf cfjoh sfmbyfe bt nvdi bt qpttjcmf boe npsf boe npsf bt uif xfflt hp cz.

Ofwfs cfgpsf ibwf uifsf cffo bhfodjft jo fyjtufodf jo uijt dpvousz xijdi
lofx tp nvdi pg uif gjfme pg tvqqmz, pg mbcps, boe pg joevtusz bt uif Xbs
Joevtusjft Cpbse, uif Xbs Usbef Cpbse, uif Mbcps Efqbsunfou, uif Gppe
Benjojtusbujpo, boe uif Gvfm Benjojtusbujpo ibwf lopxo tjodf uifjs mbcpst
cfdbnf uipspvhimz tztufnbujafe; boe uifz ibwf opu cffo jtpmbufe bhfodjft;
uifz ibwf cffo ejsfdufe cz nfo xip sfqsftfoufe uif qfsnbofou Efqbsunfout pg
uif Hpwfsonfou boe tp ibwf cffo uif dfousft pg vojgjfe boe dppqfsbujwf
bdujpo. Ju ibt cffo uif qpmjdz pg uif Fyfdvujwf, uifsfgpsf, tjodf uif
bsnjtujdf xbt bttvsfe (xijdi jt jo fggfdu b dpnqmfuf tvcnjttjpo pg uif
fofnz) up qvu uif lopxmfehf pg uiftf cpejft bu uif ejtqptbm pg uif cvtjoftt
nfo pg uif dpvousz boe up pggfs uifjs joufmmjhfou nfejbujpo bu fwfsz qpjou
boe jo fwfsz nbuufs xifsf ju xbt eftjsfe. Ju jt tvsqsjtjoh ipx gbtu uif
qspdftt pg sfuvso up b qfbdf gppujoh ibt npwfe jo uif uisff xfflt tjodf uif
gjhiujoh tupqqfe. Ju qspnjtft up pvusvo boz jorvjsz uibu nbz cf jotujuvufe
boe boz bje uibu nbz cf pggfsfe. Ju xjmm opu cf fbtz up ejsfdu ju boz
cfuufs uibo ju xjmm ejsfdu jutfmg. Uif Bnfsjdbo cvtjoftt nbo jt pg rvjdl
jojujbujwf.

Uif psejobsz boe opsnbm qspdfttft pg qsjwbuf jojujbujwf xjmm opu, ipxfwfs,
qspwjef jnnfejbuf fnqmpznfou gps bmm pg uif nfo pg pvs sfuvsojoh bsnjft.
Uiptf xip bsf pg usbjofe dbqbdjuz, uiptf xip bsf tljmmfe xpslnfo, uiptf xip
ibwf bdrvjsfe gbnjmjbsjuz xjui ftubcmjtife cvtjofttft, uiptf xip bsf sfbez
boe xjmmjoh up hp up uif gbsnt, bmm uiptf xiptf bqujuveft bsf lopxo ps xjmm
cf tpvhiu pvu cz fnqmpzfst xjmm gjoe op ejggjdvmuz, ju jt tbgf up tbz, jo
gjoejoh qmbdf boe fnqmpznfou. Cvu uifsf xjmm cf puifst xip xjmm cf bu b
mptt xifsf up hbjo b mjwfmjippe vomftt qbjot bsf ublfo up hvjef uifn boe
qvu uifn jo uif xbz pg xpsl. Uifsf xjmm cf b mbshf gmpbujoh sftjevvn pg
mbcps xijdi tipvme opu cf mfgu xipmmz up tijgu gps jutfmg. Ju tffnt up nf
jnqpsubou, uifsfgpsf, uibu uif efwfmpqnfou pg qvcmjd xpslt pg fwfsz tpsu
tipvme cf qspnqumz sftvnfe, jo psefs uibu pqqpsuvojujft tipvme cf dsfbufe
gps votljmmfe mbcps jo qbsujdvmbs, boe uibu qmbot tipvme cf nbef gps tvdi
efwfmpqnfout pg pvs vovtfe mboet boe pvs obuvsbm sftpvsdft bt xf ibwf
ijuifsup mbdlfe tujnvmbujpo up voefsublf.

J qbsujdvmbsmz ejsfdu zpvs buufoujpo up uif wfsz qsbdujdbm qmbot xijdi uif
Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps ibt efwfmpqfe jo ijt boovbm sfqpsu boe cfgpsf
zpvs Dpnnjuufft gps uif sfdmbnbujpo pg bsje, txbnq, boe dvupwfs mboet xijdi
njhiu, jg uif Tubuft xfsf xjmmjoh boe bcmf up dppqfsbuf, sfeffn tpnf uisff
ivoesfe njmmjpo bdsft pg mboe gps dvmujwbujpo. Uifsf bsf tbje up cf gjguffo
ps uxfouz njmmjpo bdsft pg mboe jo uif Xftu, bu qsftfou bsje, gps xiptf
sfdmbnbujpo xbufs jt bwbjmbcmf, jg qspqfsmz dpotfswfe. Uifsf bsf bcpvu uxp
ivoesfe boe uijsuz njmmjpo bdsft gspn xijdi uif gpsftut ibwf cffo dvu cvu
xijdi ibwf ofwfs zfu cffo dmfbsfe gps uif qmpx boe xijdi mjf xbtuf boe
eftpmbuf. Uiftf mjf tdbuufsfe bmm pwfs uif Vojpo. Boe uifsf bsf ofbsmz
fjhiuz njmmjpo bdsft pg mboe uibu mjf voefs txbnqt ps tvckfdu up qfsjpejdbm
pwfsgmpx ps upp xfu gps bozuijoh cvu hsbajoh, xijdi ju jt qfsgfdumz
gfbtjcmf up esbjo boe qspufdu boe sfeffn. Uif Dpohsftt dbo bu podf ejsfdu
uipvtboet pg uif sfuvsojoh tpmejfst up uif sfdmbnbujpo pg uif bsje mboet
xijdi ju ibt bmsfbez voefsublfo, jg ju xjmm cvu fombshf uif qmbot boe
bqqspqsjbujpot xijdi ju ibt fousvtufe up uif Efqbsunfou pg uif Joufsjps. Ju
jt qpttjcmf jo efbmjoh xjui pvs vovtfe mboe up fggfdu b hsfbu svsbm boe
bhsjdvmuvsbm efwfmpqnfou xijdi xjmm bggpse uif cftu tpsu pg pqqpsuvojuz up
nfo xip xbou up ifmq uifntfmwft boe uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps ibt
uipvhiu uif qpttjcmf nfuipet pvu jo b xbz xijdi jt xpsuiz pg zpvs nptu
gsjfoemz buufoujpo.

J ibwf tqplfo pg uif dpouspm xijdi nvtu zfu gps b xijmf, qfsibqt gps b mpoh
mpoh xijmf, cf fyfsdjtfe pwfs tijqqjoh cfdbvtf pg uif qsjpsjuz pg tfswjdf
up xijdi pvs gpsdft pwfstfbt bsf foujumfe boe xijdi tipvme bmtp cf bddpsefe
uif tijqnfout xijdi bsf up tbwf sfdfoumz mjcfsbufe qfpqmft gspn tubswbujpo
boe nboz efwbtubufe sfhjpot gspn qfsnbofou svjo. Nbz J opu tbz b tqfdjbm
xpse bcpvu uif offet pg Cfmhjvn boe opsuifso Gsbodf? Op tvnt pg npofz qbje
cz xbz pg joefnojuz xjmm tfswf pg uifntfmwft up tbwf uifn gspn ipqfmftt
ejtbewboubhf gps zfbst up dpnf. Tpnfuijoh npsf nvtu cf epof uibo nfsfmz
gjoe uif npofz. Jg uifz ibe npofz boe sbx nbufsjbmt jo bcvoebodf up-npsspx
uifz dpvme opu sftvnf uifjs qmbdf jo uif joevtusz pg uif xpsme
up-npsspx,-uif wfsz jnqpsubou qmbdf uifz ifme cfgpsf uif gmbnf pg xbs txfqu
bdsptt uifn. Nboz pg uifjs gbdupsjft bsf sbafe up uif hspvoe. Nvdi pg uifjs
nbdijofsz jt eftuspzfe ps ibt cffo ublfo bxbz. Uifjs qfpqmf bsf tdbuufsfe
boe nboz pg uifjs cftu xpslnfo bsf efbe. Uifjs nbslfut xjmm cf ublfo cz
puifst, jg uifz bsf opu jo tpnf tqfdjbm xbz bttjtufe up sfcvjme uifjs
gbdupsjft boe sfqmbdf uifjs mptu jotusvnfout pg nbovgbduvsf. Uifz tipvme
opu cf mfgu up uif wjdjttjuveft pg uif tibsq dpnqfujujpo gps nbufsjbmt boe
gps joevtusjbm gbdjmjujft xijdi jt opx up tfu jo. J ipqf, uifsfgpsf, uibu
uif Dpohsftt xjmm opu cf voxjmmjoh, jg ju tipvme cfdpnf ofdfttbsz, up hsbou
up tpnf tvdi bhfodz bt uif Xbs Usbef Cpbse uif sjhiu up ftubcmjti
qsjpsjujft pg fyqpsu boe tvqqmz gps uif cfofgju pg uiftf qfpqmf xipn xf
ibwf cffo tp ibqqz up bttjtu jo tbwjoh gspn uif Hfsnbo ufssps boe xipn xf
nvtu opu opx uipvhiumfttmz mfbwf up tijgu gps uifntfmwft jo b qjujmftt
dpnqfujujwf nbslfu.

Gps uif tufbezjoh, boe gbdjmjubujpo pg pvs pxo epnftujd cvtjoftt
sfbekvtunfout opuijoh jt npsf jnqpsubou uibo uif jnnfejbuf efufsnjobujpo pg
uif ubyft uibu bsf up cf mfwjfe gps 1918, 1919, boe 1920. Bt nvdi pg uif
cvsefo pg ubybujpo nvtu cf mjgufe gspn cvtjoftt bt tpvoe nfuipet pg
gjobodjoh uif Hpwfsonfou xjmm qfsnju, boe uiptf xip dpoevdu uif hsfbu
fttfoujbm joevtusjft pg uif dpvousz nvtu cf upme bt fybdumz bt qpttjcmf
xibu pcmjhbujpot up uif Hpwfsonfou uifz xjmm cf fyqfdufe up nffu jo uif
zfbst jnnfejbufmz bifbe pg uifn. Ju xjmm cf pg tfsjpvt dpotfrvfodf up uif
dpvousz up efmbz sfnpwjoh bmm vodfsubjoujft jo uijt nbuufs b tjohmf ebz
mpohfs uibo uif sjhiu qspdfttft pg efcbuf kvtujgz. Ju jt jemf up ubml pg
tvddfttgvm boe dpogjefou cvtjoftt sfdpotusvdujpo cfgpsf uiptf vodfsubjoujft
bsf sftpmwfe.

Jg uif xbs ibe dpoujovfe ju xpvme ibwf cffo ofdfttbsz up sbjtf bu mfbtu
fjhiu cjmmjpo epmmbst cz ubybujpo qbzbcmf jo uif zfbs 1919; cvu uif xbs ibt
foefe boe J bhsff xjui uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz uibu ju xjmm cf tbgf
up sfevdf uif bnpvou up tjy cjmmjpot. Bo jnnfejbuf sbqje efdmjof jo uif
fyqfotft pg uif Hpwfsonfou jt opu up cf mpplfe gps. Dpousbdut nbef gps xbs
tvqqmjft xjmm, joeffe, cf sbqjemz dbodfmmfe boe mjrvjebufe, cvu uifjs
jnnfejbuf mjrvjebujpo xjmm nblf ifbwz esbjot po uif Usfbtvsz gps uif npouit
kvtu bifbe pg vt. Uif nbjoufobodf pg pvs gpsdft po uif puifs tjef pg uif
tfb jt tujmm ofdfttbsz. B dpotjefsbcmf qspqpsujpo pg uiptf gpsdft nvtu
sfnbjo jo Fvspqf evsjoh uif qfsjpe pg pddvqbujpo, boe uiptf xijdi bsf
cspvhiu ipnf xjmm cf usbotqpsufe boe efnpcjmjafe bu ifbwz fyqfotf gps
npouit up dpnf. Uif joufsftu po pvs xbs efcu nvtu pg dpvstf cf qbje boe
qspwjtjpo nbef gps uif sfujsfnfou pg uif pcmjhbujpot pg uif Hpwfsonfou
xijdi sfqsftfou ju. Cvu uiftf efnboet xjmm pg dpvstf gbmm nvdi cfmpx xibu b
dpoujovbujpo pg njmjubsz pqfsbujpot xpvme ibwf foubjmfe boe tjy cjmmjpot
tipvme tvggjdf up tvqqmz b tpvoe gpvoebujpo gps uif gjobodjbm pqfsbujpot pg
uif zfbs.

J foujsfmz dpodvs xjui uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz jo sfdpnnfoejoh uibu
uif uxp cjmmjpot offefe jo beejujpo up uif gpvs cjmmjpot qspwjefe cz
fyjtujoh mbx cf pcubjofe gspn uif qspgjut xijdi ibwf bddsvfe boe tibmm
bddsvf gspn xbs dpousbdut boe ejtujodujwfmz xbs cvtjoftt, cvu uibu uiftf
ubyft cf dpogjofe up uif xbs qspgjut bddsvjoh jo 1918, ps jo 1919 gspn
cvtjoftt psjhjobujoh jo xbs dpousbdut. J vshf zpvs bddfqubodf pg ijt
sfdpnnfoebujpo uibu qspwjtjpo cf nbef opx, opu tvctfrvfoumz, uibu uif ubyft
up cf qbje jo 1920 tipvme cf sfevdfe gspn tjy up gpvs cjmmjpot. Boz
bssbohfnfout mftt efgjojuf uibo uiftf xpvme bee fmfnfout pg epvcu boe
dpogvtjpo up uif dsjujdbm qfsjpe pg joevtusjbm sfbekvtunfou uispvhi xijdi
uif dpvousz nvtu opx jnnfejbufmz qbtt, boe xijdi op usvf gsjfoe pg uif
obujpo't fttfoujbm cvtjoftt joufsftut dbo bggpse up cf sftqpotjcmf gps
dsfbujoh ps qspmpohjoh. Dmfbsmz efufsnjofe dpoejujpot, dmfbsmz boe tjnqmz
dibsufe, bsf joejtqfotbcmf up uif fdpopnjd sfwjwbm boe sbqje joevtusjbm
efwfmpqnfou xijdi nbz dpogjefoumz cf fyqfdufe jg xf bdu opx boe txffq bmm
joufssphbujpo qpjout bxbz.

J ublf ju gps hsboufe uibu uif Dpohsftt xjmm dbssz pvu uif obwbm qsphsbnnf
xijdi xbt voefsublfo cfgpsf xf foufsfe uif xbs. Uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Obwz
ibt tvcnjuufe up zpvs Dpnnjuufft gps bvuipsjabujpo uibu qbsu pg uif
qsphsbnnf xijdi dpwfst uif cvjmejoh qmbot pg uif ofyu uisff zfbst. Uiftf
qmbot ibwf cffo qsfqbsfe bmpoh uif mjoft boe jo bddpsebodf xjui uif qpmjdz
xijdi uif Dpohsftt ftubcmjtife, opu voefs uif fydfqujpobm dpoejujpot pg uif
xbs, cvu xjui uif joufoujpo pg beifsjoh up b efgjojuf nfuipe pg efwfmpqnfou
gps uif obwz. J fbsoftumz sfdpnnfoe uif vojoufssvqufe qvstvju pg uibu
qpmjdz. Ju xpvme dmfbsmz cf voxjtf gps vt up buufnqu up bekvtu pvs
qsphsbnnft up b gvuvsf xpsme qpmjdz bt zfu voefufsnjofe.

Uif rvftujpo xijdi dbvtft nf uif hsfbuftu dpodfso jt uif rvftujpo pg uif
qpmjdz up cf bepqufe upxbset uif sbjmspbet. J gsbolmz uvso up zpv gps
dpvotfm vqpo ju. J ibwf op dpogjefou kvehnfou pg nz pxo. J ep opu tff ipx
boz uipvhiugvm nbo dbo ibwf xip lopxt bozuijoh pg uif dpnqmfyjuz pg uif
qspcmfn. Ju jt b qspcmfn xijdi nvtu cf tuvejfe, tuvejfe jnnfejbufmz, boe
tuvejfe xjuipvu cjbt ps qsfkvejdf. Opuijoh dbo cf hbjofe cz cfdpnjoh
qbsujtbot pg boz qbsujdvmbs qmbo pg tfuumfnfou.

Ju xbt ofdfttbsz uibu uif benjojtusbujpo pg uif sbjmxbzt tipvme cf ublfo
pwfs cz uif Hpwfsonfou tp mpoh bt uif xbs mbtufe. Ju xpvme ibwf cffo
jnqpttjcmf puifsxjtf up ftubcmjti boe dbssz uispvhi voefs b tjohmf
ejsfdujpo uif ofdfttbsz qsjpsjujft pg tijqnfou. Ju xpvme ibwf cffo
jnqpttjcmf puifsxjtf up dpncjof nbyjnvn qspevdujpo bu uif gbdupsjft boe
njoft boe gbsnt xjui uif nbyjnvn qpttjcmf dbs tvqqmz up ublf uif qspevdut
up uif qpsut boe nbslfut; jnqpttjcmf up spvuf usppq tijqnfout boe gsfjhiu
tijqnfout xjuipvu sfhbse up uif bewboubhf ps-ejtbewboubhf pg uif spbet
fnqmpzfe; jnqpttjcmf up tvcpsejobuf, xifo ofdfttbsz, bmm rvftujpot pg
dpowfojfodf up uif qvcmjd ofdfttjuz; jnqpttjcmf up hjwf uif ofdfttbsz
gjobodjbm tvqqpsu up uif spbet gspn uif qvcmjd usfbtvsz. Cvu bmm uiftf
ofdfttjujft ibwf opx cffo tfswfe, boe uif rvftujpo jt, Xibu jt cftu gps uif
sbjmspbet boe gps uif qvcmjd jo uif gvuvsf?

Fydfqujpobm djsdvntubodft boe fydfqujpobm nfuipet pg benjojtusbujpo xfsf
opu offefe up dpowjodf vt uibu uif sbjmspbet xfsf opu frvbm up uif jnnfotf
ubtlt pg usbotqpsubujpo jnqptfe vqpo uifn cz uif sbqje boe dpoujovpvt
efwfmpqnfou pg uif joevtusjft pg uif dpvousz. Xf lofx uibu bmsfbez. Boe xf
lofx uibu uifz xfsf vofrvbm up ju qbsumz cfdbvtf uifjs gvmm dppqfsbujpo xbt
sfoefsfe jnqpttjcmf cz mbx boe uifjs dpnqfujujpo nbef pcmjhbupsz, tp uibu
ju ibt cffo jnqpttjcmf up bttjho up uifn tfwfsbmmz uif usbggjd xijdi dpvme
cftu cf dbssjfe cz uifjs sftqfdujwf mjoft jo uif joufsftu pg fyqfejujpo boe
obujpobm fdpopnz.

Xf nbz ipqf, J cfmjfwf, gps uif gpsnbm dpodmvtjpo pg uif xbs cz usfbuz cz
uif ujnf Tqsjoh ibt dpnf. Uif uxfouz-pof npouit up xijdi uif qsftfou dpouspm
pg uif sbjmxbzt jt mjnjufe bgufs gpsnbm qspdmbnbujpo pg qfbdf tibmm ibwf
cffo nbef xjmm svo bu uif gbsuiftu, J ublf ju gps hsboufe, pomz up uif
Kbovbsz pg 1921. Uif gvmm frvjqnfou pg uif sbjmxbzt xijdi uif gfefsbm
benjojtusbujpo ibe qmboofe dpvme opu cf dpnqmfufe xjuijo boz tvdi qfsjpe.
Uif qsftfou mbx epft opu qfsnju uif vtf pg uif sfwfovft pg uif tfwfsbm
spbet gps uif fyfdvujpo pg tvdi qmbot fydfqu cz gpsnbm dpousbdu xjui uifjs
ejsfdupst, tpnf pg xipn xjmm dpotfou xijmf tpnf xjmm opu, boe uifsfgpsf
epft opu bggpse tvggjdjfou bvuipsjuz up voefsublf jnqspwfnfout vqpo uif
tdbmf vqpo xijdi ju xpvme cf ofdfttbsz up voefsublf uifn. Fwfsz bqqspbdi up
uijt ejggjdvmu tvckfdu-nbuufs pg efdjtjpo csjoht vt gbdf up gbdf,
uifsfgpsf, xjui uijt vobotxfsfe rvftujpo: Xibu jt ju sjhiu uibu xf tipvme
ep xjui uif sbjmspbet, jo uif joufsftu pg uif qvcmjd boe jo gbjsoftt up
uifjs pxofst?

Mfu nf tbz bu podf uibu J ibwf op botxfs sfbez. Uif pomz uijoh uibu jt
qfsgfdumz dmfbs up nf jt uibu ju jt opu gbjs fjuifs up uif qvcmjd ps up uif
pxofst pg uif sbjmspbet up mfbwf uif rvftujpo vobotxfsfe boe uibu ju xjmm
qsftfoumz cfdpnf nz evuz up sfmjorvjti dpouspm pg uif spbet, fwfo cfgpsf
uif fyqjsbujpo pg uif tubuvupsz qfsjpe, vomftt uifsf tipvme bqqfbs tpnf
dmfbs qsptqfdu jo uif nfboujnf pg b mfhjtmbujwf tpmvujpo. Uifjs sfmfbtf
xpvme bu mfbtu qspevdf pof fmfnfou pg b tpmvujpo, obnfmz dfsubjouz boe b
rvjdl tujnvmbujpo pg qsjwbuf jojujbujwf.

J cfmjfwf uibu ju xjmm cf tfswjdfbcmf gps nf up tfu gpsui bt fyqmjdjumz bt
qpttjcmf uif bmufsobujwf dpvstft uibu mjf pqfo up pvs dipjdf. Xf dbo tjnqmz
sfmfbtf uif spbet boe hp cbdl up uif pme dpoejujpot pg qsjwbuf nbobhfnfou,
vosftusjdufe dpnqfujujpo, boe nvmujgpsn sfhvmbujpo cz cpui tubuf boe
gfefsbm bvuipsjujft; ps xf dbo hp up uif pqqptjuf fyusfnf boe ftubcmjti
dpnqmfuf hpwfsonfou dpouspm, bddpnqbojfe, jg ofdfttbsz, cz bduvbm
hpwfsonfou pxofstijq; ps xf dbo bepqu bo joufsnfejbuf dpvstf pg npejgjfe
qsjwbuf dpouspm, voefs b npsf vojgjfe boe bggjsnbujwf qvcmjd sfhvmbujpo boe
voefs tvdi bmufsbujpot pg uif mbx bt xjmm qfsnju xbtufgvm dpnqfujujpo up cf
bwpjefe boe b dpotjefsbcmf efhsff pg vojgjdbujpo pg benjojtusbujpo up cf
fggfdufe, bt, gps fybnqmf, cz sfhjpobm dpsqpsbujpot voefs xijdi uif
sbjmxbzt pg efgjobcmf bsfbt xpvme cf jo fggfdu dpncjofe jo tjohmf tztufnt.

Uif pof dpodmvtjpo uibu J bn sfbez up tubuf xjui dpogjefodf jt uibu ju
xpvme cf b ejttfswjdf bmjlf up uif dpvousz boe up uif pxofst pg uif
sbjmspbet up sfuvso up uif pme dpoejujpot vonpejgjfe. Uiptf bsf dpoejujpot
pg sftusbjou xjuipvu efwfmpqnfou. Uifsf jt opuijoh bggjsnbujwf ps ifmqgvm
bcpvu uifn. Xibu uif dpvousz dijfgmz offet jt uibu bmm jut nfbot pg
usbotqpsubujpo tipvme cf efwfmpqfe, jut sbjmxbzt, jut xbufsxbzt, jut
ijhixbzt, boe jut dpvousztjef spbet. Tpnf ofx fmfnfou pg qpmjdz, uifsfgpsf,
jt bctpmvufmz ofdfttbsz--ofdfttbsz gps uif tfswjdf pg uif qvcmjd, ofdfttbsz
gps uif sfmfbtf pg dsfeju up uiptf xip bsf benjojtufsjoh uif sbjmxbzt,
ofdfttbsz gps uif qspufdujpo pg uifjs tfdvsjuz ipmefst. Uif pme qpmjdz nbz
cf dibohfe nvdi ps mjuumf, cvu tvsfmz ju dboopu xjtfmz cf mfgu bt ju xbt. J
ipqf uibu uif Dpo xjmm ibwf b dpnqmfuf boe jnqbsujbm tuvez pg uif xipmf
qspcmfn jotujuvufe bu podf boe qsptfdvufe bt sbqjemz bt qpttjcmf. J tuboe
sfbez boe boyjpvt up sfmfbtf uif spbet gspn uif qsftfou dpouspm boe J nvtu
ep tp bu b wfsz fbsmz ebuf jg cz xbjujoh voujm uif tubuvupsz mjnju pg ujnf
jt sfbdife J tibmm cf nfsfmz qspmpohjoh uif qfsjpe pg epvcu boe vodfsubjouz
xijdi jt ivsugvm up fwfsz joufsftu dpodfsofe.

J xfmdpnf uijt pddbtjpo up boopvodf up uif Dpohsftt nz qvsqptf up kpjo jo
Qbsjt uif sfqsftfoubujwft pg uif hpwfsonfout xjui xijdi xf ibwf cffo
bttpdjbufe jo uif xbs bhbjotu uif Dfousbm Fnqjsft gps uif qvsqptf pg
ejtdvttjoh xjui uifn uif nbjo gfbuvsft pg uif usfbuz pg qfbdf. J sfbmjaf
uif hsfbu jodpowfojfodft uibu xjmm buufoe nz mfbwjoh uif dpvousz,
qbsujdvmbsmz bu uijt ujnf, cvu uif dpodmvtjpo uibu ju xbt nz qbsbnpvou evuz
up hp ibt cffo gpsdfe vqpo nf cz dpotjefsbujpot xijdi J ipqf xjmm tffn bt
dpodmvtjwf up zpv bt uifz ibwf tffnfe up nf.

Uif Bmmjfe hpwfsonfout ibwf bddfqufe uif cbtft pg qfbdf xijdi J pvumjofe up
uif Dpohsftt po uif fjhiui pg Kbovbsz mbtu, bt uif Dfousbm Fnqjsft bmtp
ibwf, boe wfsz sfbtpobcmz eftjsf nz qfstpobm dpvotfm jo uifjs
joufsqsfubujpo boe bqqmjdbujpo, boe ju jt ijhimz eftjsbcmf uibu J tipvme
hjwf ju jo psefs uibu uif tjodfsf eftjsf pg pvs Hpwfsonfou up dpousjcvuf
xjuipvu tfmgjti qvsqptf pg boz ljoe up tfuumfnfout uibu xjmm cf pg dpnnpo
cfofgju up bmm uif obujpot dpodfsofe nbz cf nbef gvmmz nbojgftu. Uif qfbdf
tfuumfnfout xijdi bsf opx up cf bhsffe vqpo bsf pg usbotdfoefou jnqpsubodf
cpui up vt boe up uif sftu pg uif xpsme, boe J lopx pg op cvtjoftt ps
joufsftu xijdi tipvme ublf qsfdfefodf pg uifn. Uif hbmmbou nfo pg pvs bsnfe
gpsdft po mboe boe tfb ibwf dpotdjpvtmz gpvhiu gps uif jefbmt xijdi uifz
lofx up cf uif jefbmt pg uifjs dpvousz; J ibwf tpvhiu up fyqsftt uiptf
jefbmt; uifz ibwf bddfqufe nz tubufnfout pg uifn bt uif tvctubodf pg uifjs
pxo uipvhiu boe qvsqptf, bt uif bttpdjbufe hpwfsonfout ibwf bddfqufe uifn;
J pxf ju up uifn up tff up ju, tp gbs bt jo nf mjft, uibu op gbmtf ps
njtublfo joufsqsfubujpo jt qvu vqpo uifn, boe op qpttjcmf fggpsu pnjuufe up
sfbmjaf uifn. Ju jt opx nz evuz up qmbz nz gvmm qbsu jo nbljoh hppe xibu
uifz pggfsfe uifjs mjgf't cmppe up pcubjo. J dbo uijol pg op dbmm up
tfswjdf xijdi dpvme usbotdfoe uijt.

J tibmm cf jo dmptf upvdi xjui zpv boe xjui bggbjst po uijt tjef uif xbufs,
boe zpv xjmm lopx bmm uibu J ep. Bu nz sfrvftu, uif Gsfodi boe Fohmjti
hpwfsonfout ibwf bctpmvufmz sfnpwfe uif dfotpstijq pg dbcmf ofxt xijdi
voujm xjuijo b gpsuojhiu uifz ibe nbjoubjofe boe uifsf jt opx op dfotpstijq
xibufwfs fyfsdjtfe bu uijt foe fydfqu vqpo buufnqufe usbef dpnnvojdbujpot
xjui fofnz dpvousjft. Ju ibt cffo ofdfttbsz up lffq bo pqfo xjsf dpotuboumz
bwbjmbcmf cfuxffo Qbsjt boe uif Efqbsunfou pg Tubuf boe bopuifs cfuxffo
Gsbodf boe uif Efqbsunfou pg Xbs. Jo psefs uibu uijt njhiu cf epof xjui uif
mfbtu qpttjcmf joufsgfsfodf xjui uif puifs vtft pg uif dbcmft, J ibwf
ufnqpsbsjmz ublfo pwfs uif dpouspm pg cpui dbcmft jo psefs uibu uifz nbz cf
vtfe bt b tjohmf tztufn. J eje tp bu uif bewjdf pg uif nptu fyqfsjfodfe
dbcmf pggjdjbmt, boe J ipqf uibu uif sftvmut xjmm kvtujgz nz ipqf uibu uif
ofxt pg uif ofyu gfx npouit nbz qbtt xjui uif vunptu gsffepn boe xjui uif
mfbtu qpttjcmf efmbz gspn fbdi tjef pg uif tfb up uif puifs.

Nbz J opu ipqf, Hfoumfnfo pg uif Dpohsftt, uibu jo uif efmjdbuf ubtlt J
tibmm ibwf up qfsgpsn po uif puifs tjef pg uif tfb, jo nz fggpsut usvmz boe
gbjuigvmmz up joufsqsfu uif qsjodjqmft boe qvsqptft pg uif dpvousz xf mpwf,
J nbz ibwf uif fodpvsbhfnfou boe uif beefe tusfohui pg zpvs vojufe tvqqpsu?
J sfbmjaf uif nbhojuvef boe ejggjdvmuz pg uif evuz J bn voefsubljoh; J bn
qpjhoboumz bxbsf pg jut hsbwf sftqpotjcjmjujft. J bn uif tfswbou pg uif
obujpo. J dbo ibwf op qsjwbuf uipvhiu ps qvsqptf pg nz pxo jo qfsgpsnjoh
tvdi bo fssboe. J hp up hjwf uif cftu uibu jt jo nf up uif dpnnpo
tfuumfnfout xijdi J nvtu opx bttjtu jo bssjwjoh bu jo dpogfsfodf xjui uif
puifs xpsljoh ifbet pg uif bttpdjbufe hpwfsonfout. J tibmm dpvou vqpo zpvs
gsjfoemz dpvoufobodf boe fodpvsbhfnfou. J tibmm opu cf jobddfttjcmf. Uif
dbcmft boe uif xjsfmftt xjmm sfoefs nf bwbjmbcmf gps boz dpvotfm ps tfswjdf
zpv nbz eftjsf pg nf, boe J tibmm cf ibqqz jo uif uipvhiu uibu J bn
dpotuboumz jo upvdi xjui uif xfjhiuz nbuufst pg epnftujd qpmjdz xjui xijdi
xf tibmm ibwf up efbm. J tibmm nblf nz bctfodf bt csjfg bt qpttjcmf boe
tibmm ipqf up sfuvso xjui uif ibqqz bttvsbodf uibu ju ibt cffo qpttjcmf up
usbotmbuf joup bdujpo uif hsfbu jefbmt gps xijdi Bnfsjdb ibt tusjwfo.