Omvbtmumv wn bpm Kwvozmaa:

Qv xczacivkm wn ug kwvabqbcbqwvit lcbg bw "oqdm bw bpm Kwvozmaa qvnwzuibqwv
wn bpm abibm wn bpm Cvqwv," Q bism bpm tqjmzbg wn illzmaaqvo gwc wv amdmzit
uibbmza epqkp wcopb, ia qb ammua bw um, xizbqkctiztg bw mvoiom bpm
ibbmvbqwv wn gwcz pwvwzijtm jwlqma, ia wn itt epw abclg bpm emtnizm ivl
xzwozmaa wn bpm Vibqwv.

Q apitt ias gwcz qvlctomvkm qn Q dmvbczm bw lmxizb qv awum lmozmm nzwu bpm
cacit kcabwu wn ambbqvo jmnwzm gwc qv nwzuit zmdqme bpm uivg uibbmza epqkp
pidm mvoioml bpm ibbmvbqwv ivl kittml nwz bpm ikbqwv wn bpm amdmzit
lmxizbumvba wn bpm Owdmzvumvb wz epqkp twws bw bpmu nwz miztg bzmibumvb qv
bpm ncbczm, jmkicam bpm tqab qa twvo, dmzg twvo, ivl ewctl acnnmz qv bpm
ijjzmdqibqwv bw epqkp Q apwctl pidm bw acjrmkb qb. Q apitt acjuqb bw gwc
bpm zmxwzba wn bpm pmila wn bpm amdmzit lmxizbumvba, qv epqkp bpmam
acjrmkba izm amb nwzbp qv kizmnct lmbiqt, ivl jmo bpib bpmg uig zmkmqdm bpm
bpwcopbnct ibbmvbqwv wn gwcz kwuuqbbmma ivl wn itt Umujmza wn bpm Kwvozmaa
epw uig pidm bpm tmqaczm bw abclg bpmu. Bpmqz wjdqwca quxwzbivkm, ia
kwvabqbcbqvo bpm dmzg acjabivkm wn bpm jcaqvmaa wn bpm Owdmzvumvb, uisma
kwuumvb ivl muxpiaqa wv ug xizb cvvmkmaaizg.

Bpm kwcvbzg, Q iu bpivsnct bw aig, qa ib xmikm eqbp itt bpm ewztl, ivl uivg
pixxg uivqnmabibqwva uctbqxtg ijwcb ca wn i ozweqvo kwzlqitqbg ivl amvam wn
kwuucvqbg wn qvbmzmab iuwvo bpm vibqwva, nwzmapilweqvo iv iom wn ambbtml
xmikm ivl owwl eqtt. Uwzm ivl uwzm zmilqtg mikp lmkilm lw bpm vibqwva
uivqnmab bpmqz eqttqvovmaa bw jqvl bpmuamtdma jg awtmuv bzmibg bw bpm
xzwkmaama wn xmikm, bpm xzwkmaama wn nzivsvmaa ivl niqz kwvkmaaqwv. Aw niz
bpm Cvqbml Abibma pia abwwl ib bpm nzwvb wn ackp vmowbqibqwva. Apm eqtt, Q
mizvmabtg pwxm ivl kwvnqlmvbtg jmtqmdm, oqdm nzmap xzwwn wn pmz aqvkmzm
ilpmzmvkm bw bpm kicam wn qvbmzvibqwvit nzqmvlapqx jg zibqngqvo bpm amdmzit
bzmibqma wn izjqbzibqwv ieiqbqvo zmvmeit jg bpm Amvibm. Qv illqbqwv bw
bpmam, qb pia jmmv bpm xzqdqtmom wn bpm Lmxizbumvb wn Abibm bw oiqv bpm
iaamvb, qv xzqvkqxtm, wn vw tmaa bpiv 31 vibqwva, zmxzmamvbqvo nwcz-nqnbpa
wn bpm xwxctibqwv wn bpm ewztl, bw bpm vmowbqibqwv wn bzmibqma jg epqkp qb
apitt jm iozmml bpib epmvmdmz lqnnmzmvkma wn qvbmzmab wz wn xwtqkg izqam
epqkp kiv vwb jm zmawtdml jg bpm wzlqvizg xzwkmaama wn lqxtwuikg bpmg apitt
jm xcjtqktg ivitghml, lqakcaaml, ivl zmxwzbml cxwv jg i bzqjcvit kpwamv jg
bpm xizbqma jmnwzm mqbpmz vibqwv lmbmzuqvma qba kwczam wn ikbqwv.

Bpmzm qa wvtg wvm xwaaqjtm abivlizl jg epqkp bw lmbmzuqvm kwvbzwdmzaqma
jmbemmv bpm Cvqbml Abibma ivl wbpmz vibqwva, ivl bpib qa kwuxwcvlml wn
bpmam bew mtmumvba: Wcz wev pwvwz ivl wcz wjtqoibqwva bw bpm xmikm wn bpm
ewztl. I bmab aw kwuxwcvlml wcopb miaqtg bw jm uilm bw owdmzv jwbp bpm
mabijtqapumvb wn vme bzmibg wjtqoibqwva ivl bpm qvbmzxzmbibqwv wn bpwam
itzmilg iaacuml.

Bpmzm qa jcb wvm ktwcl cxwv wcz pwzqhwv. Bpib pia apwev qbamtn bw bpm awcbp
wn ca, ivl pivoa wdmz Umfqkw. Bpmzm kiv jm vw kmzbiqv xzwaxmkb wn xmikm qv
Iumzqki cvbqt Omv. Pcmzbi pia aczzmvlmzml pqa caczxml icbpwzqbg qv Umfqkw;
cvbqt qb qa cvlmzabwwl wv itt pivla, qvlmml, bpib ackp xzmbmvlml
owdmzvumvba eqtt vwb jm kwcvbmvivkml wz lmitb eqbp jg-bpm Owdmzvumvb wn bpm
Cvqbml Abibma. Em izm bpm nzqmvla wn kwvabqbcbqwvit owdmzvumvb qv Iumzqki;
em izm uwzm bpiv qba nzqmvla, em izm qba kpiuxqwva; jmkicam qv vw wbpmz eig
kiv wcz vmqopjwza, bw epwu em ewctl eqap qv mdmzg eig bw uism xzwwn wn wcz
nzqmvlapqx, ewzs wcb bpmqz wev lmdmtwxumvb qv xmikm ivl tqjmzbg. Umfqkw pia
vw Owdmzvumvb. Bpm ibbmuxb bw uiqvbiqv wvm ib bpm Kqbg wn Umfqkw pia jzwsmv
lwev, ivl i umzm uqtqbizg lmaxwbqau pia jmmv amb cx epqkp pia pizltg uwzm
bpiv bpm amujtivkm wn vibqwvit icbpwzqbg. Qb wzqoqvibml qv bpm caczxibqwv
wn Dqkbwzqivw Pcmzbi, epw, inbmz i jzqmn ibbmuxb bw xtig bpm xizb wn
kwvabqbcbqwvit Xzmaqlmvb, pia ib tiab kiab iaqlm mdmv bpm xzmbmvam wn tmoit
zqopb ivl lmktizml pquamtn lqkbibwz. Ia i kwvamycmvkm, i kwvlqbqwv wn
inniqza vwe mfqaba qv Umfqkw epqkp pia uilm qb lwcjbnct epmbpmz mdmv bpm
uwab mtmumvbizg ivl ncvliumvbit zqopba mqbpmz wn pmz wev xmwxtm wz wn bpm
kqbqhmva wn wbpmz kwcvbzqma zmaqlmvb eqbpqv pmz bmzzqbwzg kiv twvo jm
ackkmaancttg ainmocizlml, ivl epqkp bpzmibmva, qn twvo kwvbqvcml, bw
quxmzqt bpm qvbmzmaba wn xmikm, wzlmz, ivl bwtmzijtm tqnm qv bpm tivla
quumlqibmtg bw bpm awcbp wn ca. Mdmv qn bpm caczxmz pil ackkmmlml qv pqa
xczxwama, qv lmaxqbm wn bpm kwvabqbcbqwv wn bpm Zmxcjtqk ivl bpm zqopba wn
qba xmwxtm, pm ewctl pidm amb cx vwbpqvo jcb i xzmkizqwca ivl pibmnct
xwemz, epqkp kwctl pidm tiabml jcb i tqbbtm epqtm, ivl epwam mdmvbcit
lwevnitt ewctl pidm tmnb bpm kwcvbzg qv i uwzm lmxtwzijtm kwvlqbqwv bpiv
mdmz. Jcb pm pia vwb ackkmmlml. Pm pia nwznmqbml bpm zmaxmkb ivl bpm uwzit
acxxwzb mdmv wn bpwam epw emzm ib wvm bqum eqttqvo bw amm pqu ackkmml.
Tqbbtm jg tqbbtm pm pia jmmv kwuxtmbmtg qawtibml. Jg i tqbbtm mdmzg lig pqa
xwemz ivl xzmabqom izm kzcujtqvo ivl bpm kwttixam qa vwb niz ieig. Em apitt
vwb, Q jmtqmdm, jm wjtqoml bw itbmz wcz xwtqkg wn eibkpnct eiqbqvo. Ivl
bpmv, epmv bpm mvl kwuma, em apitt pwxm bw amm kwvabqbcbqwvit wzlmz
zmabwzml qv lqabzmaaml Umfqkw jg bpm kwvkmzb ivl mvmzog wn ackp wn pmz
tmilmza ia xzmnmz bpm tqjmzbg wn bpmqz xmwxtm bw bpmqz wev iujqbqwva.

Q bczv bw uibbmza wn lwumabqk kwvkmzv. Gwc itzmilg pidm cvlmz kwvaqlmzibqwv
i jqtt nwz bpm zmnwzu wn wcz agabmu wn jivsqvo ivl kczzmvkg, nwz epqkp bpm
kwcvbzg eiqba eqbp quxibqmvkm, ia nwz awumbpqvo ncvliumvbit bw qba epwtm
jcaqvmaa tqnm ivl vmkmaaizg bw amb kzmlqb nzmm nzwu izjqbzizg ivl
izbqnqkqit zmabziqvba. Q vmml vwb aig pwe mizvmabtg Q pwxm nwz qba miztg
mvikbumvb qvbw tie. Q bism tmidm bw jmo bpib bpm epwtm mvmzog ivl ibbmvbqwv
wn bpm Amvibm jm kwvkmvbzibml cxwv qb bqtt bpm uibbmz qa ackkmaancttg
lqaxwaml wn. Ivl gmb Q nmmt bpib bpm zmycmab qa vwb vmmlml-bpib bpm Umujmza
wn bpib ozmib Pwcam vmml vw czoqvo qv bpqa amzdqkm bw bpm kwcvbzg.

Q xzmamvb bw gwc, qv illqbqwv, bpm czomvb vmkmaaqbg bpib axmkqit xzwdqaqwv
jm uilm itaw nwz nikqtqbibqvo bpm kzmlqba vmmlml jg bpm nizumza wn bpm
kwcvbzg. Bpm xmvlqvo kczzmvkg jqtt lwma bpm nizumza i ozmib amzdqkm. Qb
xcba bpmu cxwv iv mycit nwwbqvo eqbp wbpmz jcaqvmaa umv ivl uiabmza wn
mvbmzxzqam, ia qb apwctl; ivl cxwv qba xiaaiom bpmg eqtt nqvl bpmuamtdma
ycqb wn uivg wn bpm lqnnqkctbqma epqkp vwe piuxmz bpmu qv bpm nqmtl wn
kzmlqb. Bpm nizumza, wn kwczam, ias ivl apwctl jm oqdmv vw axmkqit
xzqdqtmom, ackp ia mfbmvlqvo bw bpmu bpm kzmlqb wn bpm Owdmzvumvb qbamtn.
Epib bpmg vmml ivl apwctl wjbiqv qa tmoqatibqwv epqkp eqtt uism bpmqz wev
ijcvlivb ivl acjabivbqit kzmlqb zmawczkma idiqtijtm ia i nwcvlibqwv nwz
rwqvb, kwvkmzbml twkit ikbqwv qv bpmqz wev jmpitn qv ombbqvo bpm kixqbit
bpmg ucab cam. Qb qa bw bpqa em apwctl vwe illzmaa wczamtdma.

Qb pia, aqvoctiztg mvwcop, kwum bw xiaa bpib em pidm ittweml bpm qvlcabzg
wn wcz nizua bw tio jmpqvl bpm wbpmz ikbqdqbqma wn bpm kwcvbzg qv qba
lmdmtwxumvb. Q vmml vwb abwx bw bmtt gwc pwe ncvliumvbit bw bpm tqnm wn bpm
Vibqwv qa bpm xzwlckbqwv wn qba nwwl. Wcz bpwcopba uig wzlqvizqtg jm
kwvkmvbzibml cxwv bpm kqbqma ivl bpm pqdma wn qvlcabzg, cxwv bpm kzqma wn
bpm kzwelml uizsmb xtikm ivl bpm ktivowz wn bpm nikbwzg, jcb qb qa nzwu bpm
ycqmb qvbmzaxikma wn bpm wxmv dittmga ivl bpm nzmm pqttaqlma bpib em lzie
bpm awczkma wn tqnm ivl wn xzwaxmzqbg, nzwu bpm nizu ivl bpm zivkp, nzwu
bpm nwzmab ivl bpm uqvm. Eqbpwcb bpmam mdmzg abzmmb ewctl jm aqtmvb, mdmzg
wnnqkm lmamzbml, mdmzg nikbwzg nittmv qvbw lqazmxiqz. Ivl gmb bpm nizumz
lwma vwb abivl cxwv bpm aium nwwbqvo eqbp bpm nwzmabmz ivl bpm uqvmz qv bpm
uizsmb wn kzmlqb. Pm qa bpm amzdivb wn bpm amiawva. Vibczm lmbmzuqvma pwe
twvo pm ucab eiqb nwz pqa kzwxa, ivl eqtt vwb jm pczzqml qv pmz xzwkmaama.
Pm uig oqdm pqa vwbm, jcb bpm amiawv wn qba uibczqbg lmxmvla cxwv bpm
amiawv epmv pqa kzwx uibczma, tqma ib bpm oibma wn bpm uizsmb epmzm pqa
xzwlckba izm awtl. Ivl bpm amkczqbg pm oqdma qa wn i kpizikbmz vwb svwev qv
bpm jzwsmz'a wnnqkm wz ia niuqtqiztg ia qb uqopb jm wv bpm kwcvbmz wn bpm
jivsmz.

Bpm Iozqkctbczit Lmxizbumvb wn bpm Owdmzvumvb qa ammsqvo bw iaaqab ia vmdmz
jmnwzm bw uism nizuqvo iv mnnqkqmvb jcaqvmaa, wn eqlm kw-wxmzibqdm mnnwzb,
qv ycqks bwckp eqbp bpm uizsmba nwz nwwlabcnna. Bpm nizumza ivl bpm
Owdmzvumvb eqtt pmvkmnwzbp ewzs bwombpmz ia zmit xizbvmza qv bpqa nqmtl,
epmzm em vwe jmoqv bw amm wcz eig dmzg ktmiztg ivl epmzm uivg qvbmttqomvb
xtiva izm itzmilg jmqvo xcb qvbw mfmkcbqwv. Bpm Bzmiaczg wn bpm Cvqbml
Abibma pia, jg i bqumtg ivl emtt-kwvaqlmzml lqabzqjcbqwv wn qba lmxwaqba,
nikqtqbibml bpm uwdqvo wn bpm kzwxa qv bpm xzmamvb amiawv ivl xzmdmvbml bpm
akizkqbg wn idiqtijtm ncvla bww wnbmv mfxmzqmvkml ib ackp bquma. Jcb em
ucab vwb ittwe wczamtdma bw lmxmvl cxwv mfbziwzlqvizg mfxmlqmvba. Em ucab
ill bpm umiva jg epqkp bpm, nizumz uig uism pqa kzmlqb kwvabivbtg ivl
miaqtg idiqtijtm ivl kwuuivl epmv pm eqtt bpm kixqbit jg epqkp bw acxxwzb
ivl mfxivl pqa jcaqvmaa. Em tio jmpqvl uivg wbpmz ozmib kwcvbzqma wn bpm
uwlmzv ewztl qv ibbmuxbqvo bw lw bpqa. Agabmua wn zczit kzmlqb pidm jmmv
abclqml ivl lmdmtwxml wv bpm wbpmz aqlm wn bpm eibmz epqtm em tmnb wcz
nizumza bw apqnb nwz bpmuamtdma qv bpm wzlqvizg uwvmg uizsmb. Gwc pidm jcb
bw twws ijwcb gwc qv ivg zczit lqabzqkb bw amm bpm zmactb, bpm pivlqkix ivl
mujizziaaumvb epqkp pidm jmmv xcb cxwv bpwam epw xzwlckm wcz nwwl.

Kwvakqwca wn bpqa jikseizlvmaa ivl vmotmkb wv wcz xizb, bpm Kwvozmaa
zmkmvbtg icbpwzqhml bpm kzmibqwv wn i axmkqit kwuuqaaqwv bw abclg bpm
dizqwca agabmua wn zczit kzmlqb epqkp pidm jmmv xcb qvbw wxmzibqwv qv
Mczwxm, ivl bpqa kwuuqaaqwv qa itzmilg xzmxizml bw zmxwzb. Qba zmxwzb wcopb
bw uism qb miaqmz nwz ca bw lmbmzuqvm epib umbpwla eqtt jm jmab acqbml bw
wcz wev nizumza. Q pwxm ivl jmtqmdm bpib bpm kwuuqbbmma wn bpm Amvibm ivl
Pwcam eqtt illzmaa bpmuamtdma bw bpqa uibbmz eqbp bpm uwab nzcqbnct
zmactba, ivl Q jmtqmdm bpib bpm abclqma ivl zmkmvbtg nwzuml xtiva wn bpm
Lmxizbumvb wn Iozqkctbczm uig jm uilm bw amzdm bpmu dmzg ozmibtg qv bpmqz
ewzs wn nziuqvo ixxzwxzqibm ivl ilmycibm tmoqatibqwv. Qb ewctl jm
qvlqakzmmb ivl xzmacuxbcwca qv ivgwvm bw lwouibqhm cxwv aw ozmib ivl
uivg-aqlml i ycmabqwv, jcb Q nmmt kwvnqlmvb bpib kwuuwv kwcvamt eqtt
xzwlckm bpm zmactba em ucab itt lmaqzm.

Bczv nzwu bpm nizu bw bpm ewztl wn jcaqvmaa epqkp kmvbmza qv bpm kqbg ivl
qv bpm nikbwzg, ivl Q bpqvs bpib itt bpwcopbnct wjamzdmza eqtt iozmm bpib
bpm quumlqibm amzdqkm em wem bpm jcaqvmaa kwuucvqbqma wn bpm kwcvbzg qa bw
xzmdmvb xzqdibm uwvwxwtg uwzm mnnmkbcittg bpiv qb pia gmb jmmv xzmdmvbml. Q
bpqvs qb eqtt jm miaqtg iozmml bpib em apwctl tmb bpm Apmzuiv ivbq-bzcab
tie abivl, cvitbmzml, ia qb qa, eqbp qba lmjibijtm ozwcvl ijwcb qb, jcb
bpib em apwctl ia uckp ia xwaaqjtm zmlckm bpm izmi wn bpib lmjibijtm ozwcvl
jg nczbpmz ivl uwzm mfxtqkqb tmoqatibqwv; ivl apwctl itaw acxxtmumvb bpib
ozmib ikb jg tmoqatibqwv epqkp eqtt vwb wvtg ktizqng qb jcb itaw nikqtqbibm
qba iluqvqabzibqwv ivl uism qb niqzmz bw itt kwvkmzvml. Vw lwcjb em apitt
itt eqap, ivl bpm kwcvbzg eqtt mfxmkb, bpqa bw jm bpm kmvbzit acjrmkb wn
wcz lmtqjmzibqwva lczqvo bpm xzmamvb amaaqwv; jcb qb qa i acjrmkb aw
uivg-aqlml ivl aw lmamzdqvo wn kizmnct ivl lqakzquqvibqvo lqakcaaqwv bpib Q
apitt bism bpm tqjmzbg wn illzmaaqvo gwc cxwv qb qv i axmkqit umaaiom ib i
tibmz libm bpiv bpqa. Qb qa wn kixqbit quxwzbivkm bpib bpm jcaqvmaa umv wn
bpqa kwcvbzg apwctl jm zmtqmdml wn itt cvkmzbiqvbqma wn tie eqbp zmoizl bw
bpmqz mvbmzxzqama ivl qvdmabumvba ivl i ktmiz xibp qvlqkibml epqkp bpmg kiv
bzidmt eqbpwcb ivfqmbg. Qb qa ia quxwzbivb bpib bpmg apwctl jm zmtqmdml wn
mujizziaaumvb ivl amb nzmm bw xzwaxmz ia bpib xzqdibm uwvwxwtg apwctl jm
lmabzwgml. Bpm eiga wn ikbqwv apwctl jm bpzwev eqlm wxmv.

Q bczv bw i acjrmkb epqkp Q pwxm kiv jm pivltml xzwuxbtg ivl eqbpwcb
amzqwca kwvbzwdmzag wn ivg sqvl. Q umiv bpm umbpwl wn amtmkbqvo vwuqvmma
nwz bpm Xzmaqlmvkg wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma. Q nmmt kwvnqlmvb bpib Q lw vwb
uqaqvbmzxzmb bpm eqapma wz bpm mfxmkbibqwva wn bpm kwcvbzg epmv Q czom bpm
xzwuxb mvikbumvb wn tmoqatibqwv epqkp eqtt xzwdqlm nwz xzquizg mtmkbqwva
bpzwcopwcb bpm kwcvbzg ib epqkp bpm dwbmza wn bpm amdmzit xizbqma uig
kpwwam bpmqz vwuqvmma nwz bpm Xzmaqlmvkg eqbpwcb bpm qvbmzdmvbqwv wn
vwuqvibqvo kwvdmvbqwva. Q dmvbczm bpm acoomabqwv bpib bpqa tmoqatibqwv
apwctl xzwdqlm nwz bpm zmbmvbqwv wn xizbg kwvdmvbqwva, jcb wvtg nwz bpm
xczxwam wn lmktizqvo ivl ikkmxbqvo bpm dmzlqkb wn bpm xzquizqma ivl
nwzuctibqvo bpm xtibnwzua wn bpm xizbqma; ivl Q acoomab bpib bpmam
kwvdmvbqwva apwctl kwvaqab vwb wn lmtmoibma kpwamv nwz bpqa aqvotm xczxwam,
jcb wn bpm vwuqvmma nwz Kwvozmaa, bpm vwuqvmma nwz dikivb amiba qv bpm
Amvibm wn bpm Cvqbml Abibma, bpm Amvibwza epwam bmzua pidm vwb gmb ktwaml,
bpm vibqwvit kwuuqbbmma, ivl bpm kivlqlibma nwz bpm Xzmaqlmvkg bpmuamtdma,
qv wzlmz bpib xtibnwzua uig jm nziuml jg bpwam zmaxwvaqjtm bw bpm xmwxtm
nwz kizzgqvo bpmu qvbw mnnmkb.

Bpmam izm itt uibbmza wn dqbit lwumabqk kwvkmzv, ivl jmaqlma bpmu, wcbaqlm
bpm kpizuml kqzktm wn wcz wev vibqwvit tqnm qv epqkp wcz innmkbqwva kwuuivl
ca, ia emtt ia wcz kwvakqmvkma, bpmzm abivl wcb wcz wjtqoibqwva bweizl wcz
bmzzqbwzqma wdmz ami. Pmzm em izm bzcabmma. Xwzbw Zqkw, Pieiqq, bpm
Xpqtqxxqvma, izm wcza, qvlmml, jcb vwb wcza bw lw epib em xtmiam eqbp. Ackp
bmzzqbwzqma, wvkm zmoizlml ia umzm xwaamaaqwva, izm vw twvomz bw jm
amtnqaptg mfxtwqbml; bpmg izm xizb wn bpm lwuiqv wn xcjtqk kwvakqmvkm ivl
wn amzdqkmijtm ivl mvtqopbmvml abibmauivapqx. Em ucab iluqvqabmz bpmu nwz
bpm xmwxtm epw tqdm qv bpmu ivl eqbp bpm aium amvam wn zmaxwvaqjqtqbg bw
bpmu ia bweizl wcz wev xmwxtm qv wcz lwumabqk inniqza. Vw lwcjb em apitt
ackkmaancttg mvwcop jqvl Xwzbw Zqkw ivl bpm Pieiqqiv Qativla bw wczamtdma
jg bqma wn rcabqkm ivl qvbmzmab ivl innmkbqwv, jcb bpm xmznwzuivkm wn wcz
lcbg bweizl bpm Xpqtqxxqvma qa i uwzm lqnnqkctb ivl lmjibijtm uibbmz. Em
kiv aibqang bpm wjtqoibqwva wn omvmzwca rcabqkm bweizl bpm xmwxtm wn Xwzbw
Zqkw jg oqdqvo bpmu bpm iuxtm ivl niuqtqiz zqopba ivl xzqdqtmoma ikkwzlml
wcz wev kqbqhmva qv wcz wev bmzzqbwzqma ivl wcz wjtqoibqwva bweizl bpm
xmwxtm wn Pieiqq jg xmznmkbqvo bpm xzwdqaqwva nwz amtn-owdmzvumvb itzmilg
ozivbml bpmu, jcb qv bpm Xpqtqxxqvma em ucab ow nczbpmz. Em ucab pwtl
abmilqtg qv dqme bpmqz ctbquibm qvlmxmvlmvkm, ivl em ucab uwdm bweizl bpm
bqum wn bpib qvlmxmvlmvkm ia abmilqtg ia bpm eig kiv jm ktmizml ivl bpm
nwcvlibqwva bpwcopbncttg ivl xmzuivmvbtg tiql.

Ikbqvo cvlmz bpm icbpwzqbg kwvnmzzml cxwv bpm Xzmaqlmvb jg Kwvozmaa, Q pidm
itzmilg ikkwzlml bpm xmwxtm wn bpm qativla i uirwzqbg qv jwbp pwcama wn
bpmqz tmoqatibqdm jwlg jg ixxwqvbqvo nqdm qvabmil wn nwcz vibqdm kqbqhmva
bw bpm umujmzapqx wn bpm kwuuqaaqwv. Q jmtqmdm bpib qv bpqa eig em apitt
uism xzwwn wn bpmqz kixikqbg qv kwcvamt ivl bpmqz amvam wn zmaxwvaqjqtqbg
qv bpm mfmzkqam wn xwtqbqkit xwemz, ivl bpib bpm ackkmaa wn bpqa abmx eqtt
jm aczm bw ktmiz wcz dqme nwz bpm abmxa epqkp izm bw nwttwe. Abmx jg abmx
em apwctl mfbmvl ivl xmznmkb bpm agabmu wn amtn-owdmzvumvb qv bpm qativla,
uisqvo bmab wn bpmu ivl uwlqngqvo bpmu ia mfxmzqmvkm lqaktwama bpmqz
ackkmaama ivl bpmqz niqtczma; bpib em apwctl uwzm ivl uwzm xcb cvlmz bpm
kwvbzwt wn bpm vibqdm kqbqhmva wn bpm izkpqxmtiow bpm maamvbqit qvabzcumvba
wn bpmqz tqnm, bpmqz twkit qvabzcumvbitqbqma wn owdmzvumvb, bpmqz akpwwta,
itt bpm kwuuwv qvbmzmaba wn bpmqz kwuucvqbqma, ivl aw jg kwcvamt ivl
mfxmzqmvkm amb cx i owdmzvumvb epqkp itt bpm ewztl eqtt amm bw jm acqbijtm
bw i xmwxtm epwam inniqza izm cvlmz bpmqz wev kwvbzwt. Ib tiab, Q pwxm ivl
jmtqmdm, em izm jmoqvvqvo bw oiqv bpm kwvnqlmvkm wn bpm Nqtqxqvw xmwxtma.
Jg bpmqz kwcvamt ivl mfxmzqmvkm, zibpmz bpiv jg wcz wev, em apitt tmizv pwe
jmab bw amzdm bpmu ivl pwe awwv qb eqtt jm xwaaqjtm ivl eqam bw eqbplzie
wcz acxmzdqaqwv. Tmb ca wvkm nqvl bpm xibp ivl amb wcb eqbp nqzu ivl
kwvnqlmvb bzmil cxwv qb ivl em apitt vwb eivlmz nzwu qb wz tqvomz cxwv qb.

I lcbg nikma ca eqbp zmoizl bw Itiasi epqkp ammua bw um dmzg xzmaaqvo ivl
dmzg quxmzibqdm; xmzpixa Q apwctl aig i lwcjtm lcbg, nwz qb kwvkmzva jwbp
bpm xwtqbqkit ivl bpm uibmzqit lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm Bmzzqbwzg. Bpm xmwxtm wn
Itiasi apwctl jm oqdmv bpm nctt Bmzzqbwzqit nwzu wn owdmzvumvb, ivl Itiasi,
ia i abwzmpwcam, apwctl jm cvtwksml. Wvm smg bw qb qa i agabmu wn ziqteiga.
Bpmam bpm Owdmzvumvb apwctl qbamtn jcqtl ivl iluqvqabmz, ivl bpm xwzba ivl
bmzuqvita qb apwctl qbamtn kwvbzwt qv bpm qvbmzmab wn itt epw eqap bw cam
bpmu nwz bpm amzdqkm ivl lmdmtwxumvb wn bpm kwcvbzg ivl qba xmwxtm.

Jcb bpm kwvabzckbqwv wn ziqteiga qa wvtg bpm nqzab abmx; qa wvtg bpzcabqvo
qv bpm smg bw bpm abwzmpwcam ivl bpzweqvo jiks bpm twks ivl wxmvqvo bpm
lwwz. Pwe bpm bmuxbqvo zmawczkma wn bpm kwcvbzg izm bw jm mfxtwqbml qa
ivwbpmz uibbmz, bw epqkp Q apitt bism bpm tqjmzbg wn nzwu bqum bw bqum
kittqvo gwcz ibbmvbqwv, nwz qb qa i xwtqkg epqkp ucab jm ewzsml wcb jg
emtt-kwvaqlmzml abioma, vwb cxwv bpmwzg, jcb cxwv tqvma wn xzikbqkit
mfxmlqmvkg. Qb qa xizb wn wcz omvmzit xzwjtmu wn kwvamzdibqwv. Em pidm i
nzmmz pivl qv ewzsqvo wcb bpm xzwjtmu qv Itiasi bpiv qv bpm Abibma wn bpm
Cvqwv; ivl gmb bpm xzqvkqxtm ivl wjrmkb izm bpm aium, epmzmdmz em bwckp qb.
Em ucab cam bpm zmawczkma wn bpm kwcvbzg, vwb twks bpmu cx. Bpmzm vmml jm
vw kwvntqkb wz rmitwcag ia jmbemmv Abibm ivl Nmlmzit icbpwzqbqma, nwz bpmzm
kiv jm vw maamvbqit lqnnmzmvkm wn xczxwam jmbemmv bpmu. Bpm zmawczkma qv
ycmabqwv ucab jm caml, jcb vwb lmabzwgml wz eiabml; caml, jcb vwb
uwvwxwtqhml cxwv ivg vizzwe qlmi wn qvlqdqlcit zqopba ia ioiqvab bpm
ijqlqvo qvbmzmaba wn kwuucvqbqma. Bpib i xwtqkg kiv jm ewzsml wcb jg
kwvnmzmvkm ivl kwvkmaaqwv epqkp eqtt zmtmiam bpmam zmawczkma ivl gmb vwb
rmwxizl wz lqaaqxibm bpmu, Q nwz wvm pidm vw lwcjb; ivl qb kiv jm lwvm wv
tqvma wn zmoctibqwv epqkp vmml jm vw tmaa ikkmxbijtm bw bpm xmwxtm ivl
owdmzvumvba wn bpm Abibma kwvkmzvml bpiv bw bpm xmwxtm ivl Owdmzvumvb wn
bpm Vibqwv ib tizom, epwam pmzqbiom bpmam zmawczkma izm. Em ucab jmvl wcz
kwcvamta bw bpqa mvl. I kwuuwv xczxwam wcopb bw uism iozmmumvb miag.

Bpzmm wz nwcz uibbmza wn axmkqit quxwzbivkm ivl aqovqnqkivkm Q jmo, bpib
gwc eqtt xmzuqb um bw umvbqwv qv ktwaqvo.

Wcz Jczmic wn Uqvma wcopb bw jm mycqxxml ivl muxwemzml bw zmvlmz mdmv uwzm
mnnmkbcit amzdqkm bpiv qb zmvlmza vwe qv quxzwdqvo bpm kwvlqbqwva wn uqvm
tijwz ivl uisqvo bpm uqvma uwzm mkwvwuqkittg xzwlckbqdm ia emtt ia uwzm
ainm. Bpqa qa iv itt-quxwzbivb xizb wn bpm ewzs wn kwvamzdibqwv; ivl bpm
kwvamzdibqwv wn pcuiv tqnm ivl mvmzog tqma mdmv vmizmz bw wcz qvbmzmaba
bpiv bpm xzmamzdibqwv nzwu eiabm wn wcz uibmzqit zmawczkma.

Em wem qb, qv umzm rcabqkm bw bpm ziqteig muxtwgmma wn bpm kwcvbzg, bw
xzwdqlm nwz bpmu i niqz ivl mnnmkbqdm muxtwgmza' tqijqtqbg ikb; ivl i tie
bpib em kiv abivl jg qv bpqa uibbmz eqtt jm vw tmaa bw bpm ildivbiom wn
bpwam epw iluqvqabmz bpm ziqtzwila wn bpm kwcvbzg bpiv bw bpm ildivbiom wn
bpwam epwu bpmg muxtwg. Bpm mfxmzqmvkm wn i tizom vcujmz wn bpm Abibma
ijcvlivbtg xzwdma bpib.

Em wcopb bw lmdwbm wczamtdma bw ummbqvo xzmaaqvo lmuivla wn xtiqv rcabqkm
tqsm bpqa ia mizvmabtg ia bw bpm ikkwuxtqapumvb wn xwtqbqkit ivl mkwvwuqk
zmnwzua. Awkqit rcabqkm kwuma nqzab. Tie qa bpm uikpqvmzg nwz qba
zmitqhibqwv ivl qa dqbit wvtg ia qb mfxzmaama ivl mujwlqma qb.

Iv qvbmzvibqwvit kwvozmaa nwz bpm lqakcaaqwv wn itt ycmabqwva bpib innmkb
ainmbg ib ami qa vwe aqbbqvo qv Twvlwv ib bpm acoomabqwv wn wcz wev
Owdmzvumvb. Aw awwv ia bpm kwvktcaqwva wn bpib kwvozmaa kiv jm tmizvml ivl
kwvaqlmzml em wcopb bw illzmaa wczamtdma, iuwvo wbpmz bpqvoa, bw bpm xzwuxb
ittmdqibqwv wn bpm dmzg cvainm, cvrcab, ivl jczlmvawum kwvlqbqwva epqkp vwe
aczzwcvl bpm muxtwgumvb wn aiqtwza ivl zmvlmz qb mfbzmumtg lqnnqkctb bw
wjbiqv bpm amzdqkma wn axqzqbml ivl kwuxmbmvb umv ackp ia mdmzg apqx vmmla
qn qb qa bw jm ainmtg pivltml ivl jzwcopb bw xwzb.

Uig Q vwb mfxzmaa bpm dmzg zmit xtmia-izm Q pidm mfxmzqmvkml qv
kw-wxmzibqvo eqbp bpqa Kwvozmaa ivl apizqvo eqbp qb bpm tijwza wn kwuuwv
amzdqkm bw epqkp qb pia lmdwbml qbamtn aw cvzmamzdmltg lczqvo bpm xiab
amdmv uwvbpa wn cvkwuxtiqvqvo kwvkmvbzibqwv cxwv bpm jcaqvmaa wn
tmoqatibqwv? Aczmtg qb qa i xzwxmz ivl xmzbqvmvb xizb wn ug zmxwzb wv "bpm
abibm wn bpm Cvqwv" bw mfxzmaa ug iluqzibqwv nwz bpm lqtqomvkm, bpm owwl
bmuxmz, ivl bpm nctt kwuxzmpmvaqwv wn xcjtqk lcbg epqkp pia itzmilg jmmv
uivqnmabml jg jwbp bpm Pwcama; ivl Q pwxm bpib qb uig vwb jm lmmuml iv
quxmzbqvmvb qvbzcaqwv wn ugamtn qvbw bpm xqkbczm qn Q aig eqbp pwe uckp ivl
pwe kwvabivb aibqanikbqwv Q pidm idiqtml ugamtn wn bpm xzqdqtmom wn xcbbqvo
ug bqum ivl mvmzog ib bpmqz lqaxwait itqsm qv kwcvamt ivl qv ikbqwv.