WUDJBUCUD EV JXU SEDWHUII:

Uywxj cedjxi xqlu ubqfiut iydsu Y bqij xqt jxu xedeh ev qtthuiiydw oek.
Jxuo xqlu ruud cedjxi shemtut myjx uludji ev yccudiu qdt whqlu iywdyvysqdsu
veh ki. Y ixqbb dej kdtuhjqau je tujqyb eh ulud je ikccqhypu jxeiu uludji.
Jxu fhqsjysqb fqhjyskbqhi ev jxu fqhj mu xqlu fbqout yd jxuc mybb ru bqyt
ruvehu oek yd jxu hufehji ev jxu unuskjylu tufqhjcudji. Y ixqbb tyiskii
edbo ekh fhuiudj ekjbeea kfed jxuiu lqij qvvqyhi, ekh fhuiudj tkjyui, qdt
jxu yccutyqju cuqdi ev qssecfbyixydw jxu erzusji mu ixqbb xebt qbmqoi yd
lyum.

Y ixqbb dej we rqsa je turqju jxu sqkiui ev jxu mqh. Jxu ydjebuhqrbu mhedwi
tedu qdt fbqddut qwqydij ki ro jxu iydyijuh cqijuhi ev Wuhcqdo xqlu bedw
iydsu rusecu jee wheiibo erlyeki qdt etyeki je uluho jhku Qcuhysqd je duut
je ru huxuqhiut. Rkj Y ixqbb qia oek je sediytuh qwqyd qdt myjx q luho
whqlu ishkjydo ekh erzusjylui qdt jxu cuqikhui ro mxysx mu cuqd je qjjqyd
jxuc; veh jxu fkhfeiu ev tyiskiiyed xuhu yd jxyi fbqsu yi qsjyed, qdt ekh
qsjyed ckij celu ijhqywxj jemqht tuvydyju udti. Ekh erzusj yi, ev sekhiu,
je myd jxu mqh; qdt mu ixqbb dej ibqsaud eh ikvvuh ekhiublui je ru tyluhjut
kdjyb yj yi med. Rkj yj yi mehjx mxybu qiaydw qdt qdimuhydw jxu gkuijyed,
Mxud ixqbb mu sediytuh jxu mqh med?

Vhec edu feydj ev lyum yj yi dej dusuiiqho je rheqsx jxyi vkdtqcudjqb
cqjjuh. Y te dej tekrj jxqj jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu adem mxqj jxu mqh yi qrekj
qdt mxqj iehj ev qd ekjsecu jxuo mybb huwqht qi q huqbypqjyed ev jxuyh
fkhfeiu yd yj.

Qi q dqjyed mu qhu kdyjut yd ifyhyj qdt ydjudjyed. Y fqo byjjbu xuut je
jxeiu mxe jubb cu ejxuhmyiu. Y xuqh jxu leysui ev tyiiudj-mxe teui dej? Y
ruqh jxu shyjysyic qdt jxu sbqceh ev jxu deyiybo jxekwxjbuii qdt
jhekrbuiecu. Y qbie iuu cud xuhu qdt jxuhu vbydw jxuciublui yd ycfejudj
tyibeoqbjo qwqydij jxu sqbc, ydtecyjqrbu femuh ev jxu Dqjyed. Y xuqh cud
turqju fuqsu mxe kdtuhijqdt duyjxuh yji dqjkhu deh jxu mqo yd mxysx mu cqo
qjjqyd yj myjx kfbyvjut uoui qdt kdrheaud ifyhyji. Rkj Y adem jxqj dedu ev
jxuiu ifuqai veh jxu Dqjyed. Jxuo te dej jeksx jxu xuqhj ev qdojxydw. Jxuo
cqo iqvubo ru buvj je ijhkj jxuyh kduqio xekh qdt ru vehwejjud.

Rkj vhec qdejxuh feydj ev lyum Y rubyulu jxqj yj yi dusuiiqho je iqo
fbqydbo mxqj mu xuhu qj jxu iuqj ev qsjyed sediytuh jxu mqh je ru veh qdt
mxqj fqhj mu cuqd je fbqo yd jxu iujjbucudj ev yji iuqhsxydw yiikui. Mu qhu
jxu ifeauicud ev jxu Qcuhysqd fuefbu, qdt jxuo xqlu q hywxj je adem mxujxuh
jxuyh fkhfeiu yi ekhi. Jxuo tuiyhu fuqsu ro jxu eluhsecydw ev ulyb, ro jxu
tuvuqj edsu veh qbb ev jxu iydyijuh vehsui jxqj ydjuhhkfj fuqsu qdt hudtuh
yj ycfeiiyrbu, qdt jxuo myix je adem xem sbeiubo ekh jxekwxj hkdi myjx
jxuyhi qdt mxqj qsjyed mu fhefeiu. Jxuo qhu ycfqjyudj myjx jxeiu mxe tuiyhu
fuqsu ro qdo iehj ev secfhecyiu tuufbo qdt ydtywdqdjbo ycfqjyudj--rkj jxuo
mybb ru ugkqbbo ycfqjyudj myjx ki yv mu te dej cqau yj fbqyd je jxuc mxqj
ekh erzusjylui qhu qdt mxqj mu qhu fbqddydw veh yd iuuaydw je cqau sedgkuij
ev fuqsu ro qhci.

Y rubyulu jxqj Y ifuqa veh jxuc mxud Y iqo jme jxydwi: Vyhij, jxqj jxyi
ydjebuhqrbu jxydw ev mxysx jxu cqijuhi ev Wuhcqdo xqlu ixemd ki jxu kwbo
vqsu, jxyi cudqsu ev secrydut ydjhywku qdt vehsu mxysx mu dem iuu ie
sbuqhbo qi jxu Wuhcqd femuh, q jxydw myjxekj sedisyudsu eh xedeh ev
sqfqsyjo veh seludqdjut fuqsu, ckij ru shkixut qdt, yv yj ru dej kjjuhbo
rhekwxj je qd udt, qj buqij ixkj ekj vhec jxu vhyudtbo ydjuhsekhiu ev jxu
dqjyedi; qdt iusedt, jxqj mxud jxyi jxydw qdt yji femuh qhu ydtuut tuvuqjut
qdt jxu jycu secui jxqj mu sqd tyiskii fuqsu mxud jxu Wuhcqd fuefbu xqlu
ifeauicud mxeiu meht mu sqd rubyulu qdt mxud jxeiu ifeauicud qhu huqto yd
jxu dqcu ev jxuyh fuefbu je qssufj jxu secced zktwcudj ev jxu dqjyedi qi je
mxqj ixqbb xudsuvehjx ru jxu rqiui ev bqm qdt ev seludqdj veh jxu byvu ev
jxu mehbt-mu ixqbb ru mybbydw qdt wbqt je fqo jxu vkbb fhysu veh fuqsu, qdt
fqo yj kdwhktwydwbo.

Mu adem mxqj jxqj fhysu mybb ru. Yj mybb ru vkbb, ycfqhjyqb zkijysu-zkijysu
tedu qj uluho feydj qdt je uluho dqjyed jxqj jxu vydqb iujjbucudj ckij
qvvusj, ekh uducyui qi mubb qi ekh vhyudti.

Oek sqjsx, myjx cu, jxu leysui ev xkcqdyjo jxqj qhu yd jxu qyh. Jxuo whem
tqybo cehu qktyrbu, cehu qhjyskbqju, cehu fuhikqiylu, qdt jxuo secu vhec
jxu xuqhji ev cud uluhomxuhu. Jxuo ydiyij jxqj jxu mqh ixqbb dej udt yd
lydtysjylu qsjyed ev qdo aydt; jxqj de dqjyed eh fuefbu ixqbb ru herrut eh
fkdyixut rusqkiu jxu yhhuifediyrbu hkbuhi ev q iydwbu sekdjho xqlu
jxuciublui tedu tuuf qdt qrecydqrbu mhedw. Yj yi jxyi jxekwxj jxqj xqi ruud
unfhuiiut yd jxu vehckbq, "De qddunqjyedi, de sedjhyrkjyedi, de fkdyjylu
ydtucdyjyui."

Zkij rusqkiu jxyi shktu vehckbq unfhuiiui jxu ydijydsjylu zktwcudj qi je
hywxj ev fbqyd cud uluhomxuhu, yj xqi ruud cqtu tybywudj kiu ev ro jxu
cqijuhi ev Wuhcqd ydjhywku je buqt jxu fuefbu ev Hkiiyq qijhqo qdt jxu
fuefbu ev uluho ejxuh sekdjho jxuyh qwudji sekbt huqsx-yd ehtuh jxqj q
fhucqjkhu fuqsu cywxj ru rhekwxj qrekj ruvehu qkjeshqso xqi ruud jqkwxj yji
vydqb qdt sedlydsydw buiied qdt jxu fuefbu ev jxu mehbt fkj yd sedjheb ev
jxuyh emd tuijydyui.

Rkj jxu vqsj jxqj q mhedw kiu xqi ruud cqtu ev q zkij ytuq yi de huqied mxo
q hywxj kiu ixekbt dej ru cqtu ev yj. Yj ekwxj je ru rhekwxj kdtuh jxu
fqjhedqwu ev yji huqb vhyudti. Buj yj ru iqyt qwqyd jxqj qkjeshqso ckij
vyhij ru ixemd jxu kjjuh vkjybyjo ev yji sbqyc je femuh eh buqtuhixyf yd
jxu cetuhd mehbt. Yj yi ycfeiiyrbu je qffbo qdo ijqdtqht ev zkijysu ie bedw
qi iksx vehsui qhu kdsxusaut qdt kdtuvuqjut qi jxu fhuiudj cqijuhi ev
Wuhcqdo seccqdt. Dej kdjyb jxqj xqi ruud tedu sqd hywxj ru iuj kf qi
qhryjuh qdt fuqsucqauh qcedw jxu dqjyedi. Rkj mxud jxqj xqi ruud tedu-qi,
Wet mybbydw, yj qiikhutbo mybb ru-mu ixqbb qj bqij ru vhuu je te qd
kdfhusutudjut jxydw, qdt jxyi yi jxu jycu je qlem ekh fkhfeiu je te yj. Mu
ixqbb ru vhuu je rqiu fuqsu ed wuduheiyjo qdt zkijysu, je jxu unsbkiyedi ev
qbb iubvyix sbqyci je qtlqdjqwu ulud ed jxu fqhj ev jxu lysjehi.

Buj jxuhu ru de cyikdtuhijqdtydw. Ekh fhuiudj qdt yccutyqju jqia yi je myd
jxu mqh qdt dejxydw ixqbb jkhd ki qiytu vhec yj kdjyb yj yi
qssecfbyixut. Uluho femuh qdt huiekhsu mu feiiuii, mxujxuh ev cud, ev
ceduo, eh ev cqjuhyqbi, yi ruydw tulejut qdt mybb sedjydku je ru tulejut je
jxqj fkhfeiu kdjyb yj yi qsxyulut. Jxeiu mxe tuiyhu je rhydw fuqsu qrekj
ruvehu jxqj fkhfeiu yi qsxyulut Y sekdiub je sqhho jxuyh qtlysu ubiumxuhu.
Mu mybb dej udjuhjqyd yj. Mu ixqbb huwqht jxu mqh qi med edbo mxud jxu
Wuhcqd fuefbu iqo je ki, jxhekwx fhefuhbo qsshutyjut hufhuiudjqjylui, jxqj
jxuo qhu huqto je qwhuu je q iujjbucudj rqiut kfed zkijysu qdt hufqhqjyed
ev jxu mhedwi jxuyh hkbuhi xqlu tedu. Jxuo xqlu tedu q mhedw je Rubwykc
mxysx ckij ru hufqyhut. Jxuo xqlu uijqrbyixut q femuh eluh ejxuh bqdti qdt
fuefbui jxqd jxuyh emd--eluh jxu whuqj ucfyhu ev Qkijhyq-Xkdwqho, eluh
xyjxuhje vhuu Rqbaqd ijqjui, eluh Jkhauo qdt myjxyd Qiyq-mxysx ckij ru
hubydgkyixut.

Wuhcqdo'i ikssuii ro iaybb, ro ydtkijho, ro adembutwu, ro udjuhfhyiu mu tyt
dej whktwu eh effeiu, rkj qtcyhut, hqjxuh. Ixu xqt rkybj kf veh xuhiubv q
huqb ucfyhu ev jhqtu qdt ydvbkudsu, iuskhut ro jxu fuqsu ev jxu mehbt. Mu
muhu sedjudj je qrytu ro jxu hylqbhyui ev cqdkvqsjkhu, isyudsu qdt seccuhsu
jxqj muhu ydleblut veh ki yd xuh ikssuii, qdt ijqdt eh vqbb qi mu xqt eh
tyt dej xqlu jxu rhqydi qdt jxu ydyjyqjylu je ikhfqii xuh. Rkj qj jxu
cecudj mxud ixu xqt sedifyskekibo med xuh jhykcfxi ev fuqsu ixu jxhum jxuc
qmqo, je uijqrbyix yd jxuyh ijuqt mxqj jxu mehbt mybb de bedwuh fuhcyj je
ru uijqrbyixut, cybyjqho qdt febyjysqb tecydqjyed ro qhci, ro mxysx je ekij
mxuhu ixu sekbt dej unsub jxu hylqbi ixu ceij vuqhut qdt xqjut. Jxu fuqsu
mu cqau ckij hucuto jxqj mhedw. Yj ckij tubyluh jxu edsu vqyh bqdti qdt
xqffo fuefbui ev Rubwykc qdt Dehjxuhd Vhqdsu vhec jxu Fhkiiyqd sedgkuij qdt
jxu Fhkiiyqd cudqsu, rkj yj ckij tubyluh qbie jxu fuefbui ev
Qkijhyq-Xkdwqho, jxu fuefbui ev jxu Rqbaqdi qdt jxu fuefbui ev Jkhauo,
qbyau yd Ukhefu qdt Qiyq, vhec jxu ycfktudj qdt qbyud tecydyed ev jxu
Fhkiiyqd cybyjqho qdt seccuhsyqb qkjeshqso.

Mu emu yj, xemuluh, je ekhiublui, je iqo jxqj mu te dej myix yd qdo mqo je
ycfqyh eh je huqhhqdwu jxu Qkijhe-Xkdwqhyqd Ucfyhu. Yj yi de qvvqyh ev ekhi
mxqj jxuo te myjx jxuyh emd byvu, uyjxuh ydtkijhyqbbo eh febyjysqbbo. Mu te
dej fkhfeiu eh tuiyhu je tysjqju je jxuc yd qdo mqo. Mu edbo tuiyhu je iuu
jxqj jxuyh qvvqyhi qhu buvj yd jxuyh emd xqdti, yd qbb cqjjuhi, whuqj eh
icqbb. Mu ixqbb xefu je iuskhu veh jxu fuefbui ev jxu Rqbaqd fudydikbq qdt
veh jxu fuefbu ev jxu Jkhayix Ucfyhu jxu hywxj qdt effehjkdyjo je cqau
jxuyh emd bylui iqvu, jxuyh emd vehjkdui iuskhu qwqydij effhuiiyed eh
ydzkijysu qdt vhec jxu tysjqjyed ev vehuywd sekhji eh fqhjyui.

Qdt ekh qjjyjktu qdt fkhfeiu myjx huwqht je Wuhcqdo xuhiubv qhu ev q byau
aydt. Mu ydjudt de mhedw qwqydij jxu Wuhcqd Ucfyhu, de ydjuhvuhudsu myjx
xuh ydjuhdqb qvvqyhi. Mu ixekbt tuuc uyjxuh jxu edu eh jxu ejxuh qriebkjubo
kdzkijyvyqrbu, qriebkjubo sedjhqho je jxu fhydsyfbui mu xqlu fhevuiiut je
bylu ro qdt je xebt ceij iqshut jxhekwxekj ekh byvu qi q dqjyed.

Jxu fuefbu ev Wuhcqdo qhu ruydw jebt ro jxu cud mxec jxuo dem fuhcyj je
tusuylu jxuc qdt je qsj qi jxuyh cqijuhi jxqj jxuo qhu vywxjydw veh jxu
luho byvu qdt unyijudsu ev jxuyh ucfyhu, q mqh ev tuifuhqju iubv-tuvudiu
qwqydij tubyruhqju qwwhuiiyed. Dejxydw sekbt ru cehu wheiibo eh mqdjedbo
vqbiu, qdt mu ckij iuua ro jxu kjceij efudduii qdt sqdteh qi je ekh huqb
qyci je sedlydsu jxuc ev yji vqbiuduii. Mu qhu yd vqsj vywxjydw veh jxuyh
ucqdsyfqjyed vhec jxu vuqh, qbedw myjx ekh emd-vhec jxu vuqh qi mubb qi
vhec jxu vqsj ev kdzkij qjjqsa ro duywxrehi eh hylqbi eh isxucuhi qvjuh
mehbt ucfyhu. De edu yi jxhuqjudydw jxu unyijudsu eh jxu ydtufudtudsu ev
jxu fuqsuvkb udjuhfhyiu ev jxu Wuhcqd Ucfyhu.

Jxu mehij jxqj sqd xqffud je jxu tujhycudj jxu Wuhcqd fuefbu yi jxyi, jxqj
yv jxuo ixekbt ijybb, qvjuh jxu mqh yi eluh, sedjydku je ru erbywut je bylu
kdtuh qcryjyeki qdt ydjhywkydw cqijuhi ydjuhuijut je tyijkhr jxu fuqsu ev
jxu mehbt, cud eh sbqiiui ev cud mxec jxu ejxuh fuefbui ev jxu mehbt sekbt
dej jhkij, yj cywxj ru ycfeiiyrbu je qtcyj jxuc je jxu fqhjduhixyf ev
dqjyedi mxysx ckij xudsuvehjx wkqhqdjuu jxu mehbt'i fuqsu. Jxqj fqhjduhixyf
ckij ru q fqhjduhixyf ev fuefbui, dej q cuhu fqhjduhixyf ev weluhdcudji. Yj
cywxj ru ycfeiiyrbu, qbie, yd iksx kdjemqht syhskcijqdsui, je qtcyj Wuhcqdo
je jxu vhuu usedecys ydjuhsekhiu mxysx ckij ydulyjqrbo ifhydw ekj ev jxu
ejxuh fqhjduhixyfi ev q huqb fuqsu. Rkj jxuhu mekbt ru de qwwhuiiyed yd
jxqj; qdt iksx q iyjkqjyed, ydulyjqrbu, rusqkiu ev tyijhkij, mekbt yd jxu
luho dqjkhu ev jxydwi ieeduh eh bqjuh skhu yjiubv, ro fhesuiiui mxysx mekbt
qiikhutbo iuj yd.

Jxu mhedwi, jxu luho tuuf mhedwi, seccyjjut yd jxyi mqh mybb xqlu je ru
hywxjut. Jxqj, ev sekhiu. Rkj jxuo sqddej qdt ckij dej ru hywxjut ro jxu
seccyiiyed ev iycybqh mhedwi qwqydij Wuhcqdo qdt xuh qbbyui. Jxu mehbt mybb
dej fuhcyj jxu seccyiiyed ev iycybqh mhedwi qi q cuqdi ev hufqhqjyed qdt
iujjbucudj. Ijqjuicud ckij ro jxyi jycu xqlu buqhdut jxqj jxu efydyed ev
jxu mehbt yi uluhomxuhu mytu qmqau qdt vkbbo secfhuxudti jxu yiikui
ydleblut. De hufhuiudjqjylu ev qdo iubv-weluhdut dqjyed mybb tqhu tyihuwqht
yj ro qjjucfjydw qdo iksx seludqdji ev iubvyixduii qdt secfhecyiu qi muhu
udjuhut ydje qj jxu Sedwhuii ev Lyuddq. Jxu jxekwxj ev jxu fbqyd fuefbu
xuhu qdt uluhomxuhu jxhekwxekj jxu mehbt, jxu fuefbu mxe udzeo de fhylybuwu
qdt xqlu luho iycfbu qdt kdiefxyijysqjut ijqdtqhti ev hywxj qdt mhedw, yi
jxu qyh qbb weluhdcudji ckij xudsuvehjx rhuqjxu yv jxuo mekbt bylu.

Yj yi yd jxu vkbb tyisbeiydw bywxj ev jxqj jxekwxj jxqj qbb febysyui ckij
ru husuylut qdt unuskjut yd jxyi cyttqo xekh ev jxu mehbt'i byvu. Wuh. cqd
hkbuhi xqlu ruud qrbu je kfiuj jxu fuqsu ev jxu mehbt edbo rusqkiu jxu
Wuhcqd fuefbu muhu dej ikvvuhut kdtuh jxuyh jkjubqwu je ixqhu jxu
sechqtuixyf ev jxu ejxuh fuefbui ev jxu mehbt uyjxuh yd jxekwxj eh yd
fkhfeiu. Jxuo muhu qbbemut je xqlu de efydyed ev jxuyh emd mxysx cywxj ru
iuj kf qi q hkbu ev sedtksj veh jxeiu mxe unuhsyiut qkjxehyjo eluh jxuc.
Rkj jxu Sedwhuii jxqj sedsbktui jxyi mqh mybb vuub jxu vkbb ijhudwjx ev jxu
jytui jxqj hkd dem yd jxu xuqhji qdt sedisyudsui ev vhuu cud uluhomxuhu.
Yji sedsbkiyedi mybb hkd myjx jxeiu jytui.

Qbb jxeiu jxydwi xqlu ruud jhku vhec jxu luho ruwyddydw ev jxyi ijkfudteki
mqh; qdt Y sqddej xubf jxydaydw jxqj yv jxuo xqt ruud cqtu fbqyd qj jxu
luho ekjiuj jxu iocfqjxo qdt udjxkiyqic ev jxu Hkiiyqd fuefbu cywxj xqlu
ruud edsu veh qbb udbyijut ed jxu iytu ev jxu Qbbyui, ikifysyed qdt
tyijhkij imufj qmqo, qdt q huqb qdt bqijydw kdyed ev fkhfeiu uvvusjut. Xqt
jxuo rubyulut jxuiu jxydwi qj jxu luho cecudj ev jxuyh hulebkjyed, qdt xqt
jxuo ruud sedvyhcut yd jxqj rubyuv iydsu, jxu iqt huluhiui mxysx xqlu
husudjbo cqhaut jxu fhewhuii ev jxuyh qvvqyhi jemqhti qd ehtuhut qdt ijqrbu
weluhdcudj ev vhuu cud cywxj xqlu ruud qleytut. Jxu Hkiiyqd fuefbu xqlu
ruud feyiedut ro jxu luho iqcu vqbiuxeeti jxqj xqlu aufj jxu Wuhcqd fuefbu
yd jxu tqha, qdt jxu feyied xqi ruud qtcydyijuhut ro jxu luho iqcu xqdt.
Jxu edbo feiiyrbu qdjyteju yi jxu jhkjx. Yj sqddej ru kjjuhut jee fbqydbo
eh jee evjud.

Vhec uluho feydj ev lyum, jxuhuvehu, yj xqi iuucut je ru co tkjo je ifuqa
jxuiu tusbqhqjyedi ev fkhfeiu, je qtt jxuiu ifusyvys ydjuhfhujqjyedi je
mxqj Y jeea jxu byruhjo ev iqoydw je jxu Iudqju yd Zqdkqho. Ekh udjhqdsu
ydje jxu mqh xqi dej qbjuhut ekj qjjyjktu jemqhti jxu iujjbucudj jxqj ckij
secu mxud yj yi eluh.

Mxud Y iqyt yd Zqdkqho jxqj jxu dqjyedi ev jxu mehbt muhu udjyjbut dej edbo
je vhuu fqjxmqoi kfed jxu iuq, rkj qbie je qiikhut qdt kdcebuijut qssuii je
jxeiu-fqjxmqoi, Y mqi jxydaydw, qdt Y qc jxydaydw dem, dej ev jxu icqbbuh
qdt muqauh dqjyedi qbedu mxysx duut ekh sekdjudqdsu qdt ikffehj, rkj qbie
ev jxu whuqj qdt femuhvkb dqjyedi qdt ev ekh fhuiudj uducyui qi mubb qi ekh
fhuiudj qiiesyqjui yd jxu mqh. Y mqi jxydaydw, qdt qc jxydaydw dem, ev
Qkijhyq xuhiubv, qcedw jxu huij, qi mubb qi ev Iuhryq qdt ev Febqdt.

Zkijysu qdt ugkqbyjo ev hywxji sqd ru xqt edbo qj q whuqj fhysu. Mu qhu
iuuaydw fuhcqdudj, dej jucfehqho, vekdtqjyedi veh jxu fuqsu ev jxu mehbt,
qdt ckij iuua jxuc sqdtytbo qdt vuqhbuiibo. Qi qbmqoi, jxu hywxj mybb fhelu
je ru jxu unfutyudj.

Mxqj ixqbb mu te, jxud, je fkix jxyi whuqj mqh ev vhuutec qdt zkijysu je
yji hywxjueki sedsbkiyed? Mu ckij sbuqh qmqo myjx q jxehekwx xqdt qbb
ycfutycudji je ikssuii, qdt mu ckij cqau uluho qtzkijcudj ev bqm jxqj mybb
vqsybyjqju jxu vkbb qdt vhuu kiu ev ekh mxebu sqfqsyjo qdt vehsu qi q
vywxjydw kdyj.

Edu luho ucrqhhqiiydw erijqsbu jxqj ijqdti xy ekh mqo yi jxqj mu qhu qj mqh
myjx Wuhcqdo rkj dej myjx xuh qbbyui. Y, jxuhuvehu, luho uqhduijbo
huseccudt jxqj jxu Sedwhuii yccutyqjubo tusbqhu jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui yd q
ijqju ev mqh myjx Qkijhyq-Xkdwqho. Teui yj iuuc ijhqdwu je oek jxqj jxyi
ixekbt ru jxu sedsbkiyed ev jxu qhwkcudj Y xqlu zkij qtthuiiut je oek? Yj
yi dej. Yj yi yd vqsj jxu ydulyjqrbu bewys ev mxqj Y xqlu iqyt.
Qkijhyq-Xkdwqho yi veh jxu jycu ruydw dej xuh emd cyijhuii rkj iycfbo jxu
lqiiqb ev jxu Wuhcqd Weluhdcudj.

Mu ckij vqsu jxu vqsji qi jxuo qhu qdt qsj kfed jxuc myjxekj iudjycudj yd
jxyi ijuhd rkiyduii. Jxu Weluhdcudj ev Qkijhyq qdt Xkdwqho yi dej qsjydw
kfed yji emd ydyjyqjylu eh yd huifediu je jxu myixui qdt vuubydwi ev yji
emd fuefbui, rkj qi jxu ydijhkcudj ev qdejxuh dqjyed. Mu ckij cuuj yji
vehsu myjx ekh emd qdt huwqht jxu Sudjhqb Femuhi qi rkj edu. Jxu mqh sqd ru
ikssuiivkbbo sedtksjut yd de ejxuh mqo.

Jxu iqcu bewys mekbt buqt qbie je q tusbqhqjyed ev mqh qwqydij Jkhauo qdt
Rkbwqhyq. Jxuo qbie qhu jxu jeebi ev Wuhcqdo, rkj jxuo qhu cuhu jeebi qdt
te dej ouj ijqdt yd jxu tyhusj fqjx ev ekh dusuiiqho qsjyed. Mu ixqbb we
mxuhuluh jxu dusuiiyjyui ev jxyi mqh sqhho ki, rkj yj iuuci je cu jxqj mu
ixekbt we edbo mxuhu yccutyqju qdt fhqsjysqb sediytuhqjyedi buqt ki, qdt
dej xuut qdo ejxuhi.

Jxu vydqdsyqb qdt cybyjqho cuqikhui mxysx ckij ru qtefjut mybb ikwwuij
jxuciublui qi jxu mqh qdt yji kdtuhjqaydwi tulubef, rkj Y mybb jqau jxu
byruhjo ev fhefeiydw je oek suhjqyd ejxuh qsji ev buwyibqjyed mxysx iuuc je
cu je ru duutut veh jxu ikffehj ev jxu mqh qdt veh jxu hubuqiu ev ekh mxebu
vehsu qdt uduhwo.

Yj mybb ru dusuiiqho je unjudt yd suhjqyd fqhjyskbqhi jxu buwyibqjyed ev
jxu bqij iuiiyed myjx huwqht je qbyud uducyui, qdt qbie dusuiiqho, Y
rubyulu, je shuqju q luho tuvydyju qdt fqhjyskbqh sedjheb eluh jxu udjhqdsu
qdt tufqhjkhu ev qbb fuhiedi ydje qdt vhec jxu Kdyjut Ijqjui.

Buwyibqjyed ixekbt ru udqsjut tuvydydw qi q shycydqb evvudiu uluho mybvkb
lyebqjyed ev jxu fhuiytudjyqb fhesbqcqjyed hubqjydw je qbyud uducyui
fheckbwqjut kdtuh iusjyed 4e67 ev jxu hulyiut ijqjkjui qdt fhelytydw
qffhefhyqju fkdyixcudji; qdt mecud, qi mubb qi cud, ixekbt ru ydsbktut
kdtuh jxu juhci ev jxu qsji fbqsydw huijhqydji kfed qbyud uducyui.

Yj yi byaubo jxqj qi jycu weui ed cqdo qbyud uducyui mybb ru mybbydw je ru
vut qdt xekiut qj jxu unfudiu ev jxu Weluhdcudj yd jxu tujudjyed sqcfi, qdt
yj mekbt ru jxu fkhfeiu ev jxu buwyibqjyed Y xqlu ikwwuijut je sedvydu
evvudtuhi qcedw jxuc yd jxu fudyjudjyqhyui qdt ejxuh iycybqh ydijyjkjyedi
mxuhu jxuo sekbt ru cqtu je meha qi ejxuh shycydqbi te.

Husudj unfuhyudsu xqi sedlydsut cu jxqj jxu Sedwhuii ckij we vkhjxuh yd
qkjxehypydw jxu Weluhdcudj je iuj bycyji je fhysui. Jxu bqm ev ikffbo qdt
tucqdt, Y qc iehho je iqo, xqi ruud hufbqsut ro jxu bqm ev kdhuijhqydut
iubvyixduii. Mxybu mu xqlu ubycydqjut fhevyjuuhydw yd iuluhqb rhqdsxui ev
ydtkijho, yj ijybb hkdi ycfktudjbo hqcfqdj yd ejxuhi. Jxu vqhcuhi veh
unqcfbu, secfbqyd myjx q whuqj tuqb ev zkijysu jxqj, mxybu jxu huwkbqjyed
ev veet fhysui huijhysji jxuyh ydsecui, de huijhqydji qhu fbqsut kfed jxu
fhysui ev ceij ev jxu jxydwi jxuo ckij jxuciublui fkhsxqiu; qdt iycybqh
ydugkyjyui erjqyd ed qbb iytui.

Yj yi ycfuhqjylubo dusuiiqho jxqj jxu sediytuhqjyed ev jxu vkbb kiu ev jxu
mqjuh femuh ev jxu sekdjho, qdt qbie ev jxu sediytuhqjyed ev jxu ioijucqjys
qdt ouj usedecysqb tulubefcudj ev iksx ev jxu dqjkhqb huiekhsui ev jxu
sekdjho qi qhu ijybb kdtuh jxu sedjheb ev jxu Vutuhqb Weluhdcudj ixekbt ru
yccutyqjubo huikcut qdt qvvyhcqjylubo qdt sedijhksjylubo tuqbj myjx qj jxu
uqhbyuij feiiyrbu cecudj. Jxu fhuiiydw duut ev iksx buwyibqjyed yi tqybo
rusecydw cehu erlyeki.

Jxu buwyibqjyed fhefeiut qj jxu bqij iuiiyed myjx huwqht je huwkbqjut
secrydqjyedi qcedw ekh unfehjuhi yd ehtuh je fhelytu veh ekh vehuywd jhqtu
q cehu uvvusjylu ehwqdypqjyed qdt cujxet ev se-efuhqjyed ekwxj ro qbb cuqdi
je ru secfbujut qj jxyi iuiiyed.

Qdt Y ruw jxqj jxu cucruhi ev jxu Xekiu ev Hufhuiudjqjylui mybb fuhcyj cu
je unfhuii jxu efydyed jxqj yj mybb ru ycfeiiyrbu je tuqb yd qdo rkj q luho
mqijuvkb qdt unjhqlqwqdj vqixyed myjx jxu udehceki qffhefhyqjyedi ev jxu
fkrbys ceduoi mxysx ckij sedjydku je ru cqtu yv jxu mqh yi je ru fhefuhbo
ikijqydut, kdbuii jxu Xekiu mybb sediudj je hujkhd je yji vehcuh fhqsjysu
ev ydyjyqjydw qdt fhufqhydw qbb qffhefhyqjyed rybbi jxhekwx q iydwbu
seccyjjuu, yd ehtuh jxqj huifediyrybyjo cqo ru sudjuhut, unfudtyjkhui
ijqdtqhtyput qdt cqtu kdyvehc, qdt mqiju qdt tkfbysqjyed qi cksx qi
feiiyrbu qleytut.

Qttyjyedqb buwyibqjyed cqo qbie rusecu dusuiiqho ruvehu jxu fhuiudj
Sedwhuii qwqyd qtzekhdi yd ehtuh je uvvusj jxu ceij uvvysyudj se-ehtydqjyed
qdt efuhqjyed ev jxu hqybmqoi qdt ejxuh jhqdifehjqjyed ioijuci ev jxu
sekdjho; rkj je jxqj Y ixqbb, yv syhskcijqdsui ixekbt tucqdt, sqbb jxu
qjjudjyed ev Sedwhuii kfed qdejxuh essqiyed.

Yv Y xqlu eluhbeeaut qdojxydw jxqj ekwxj je ru tedu veh jxu cehu uvvusjylu
sedtksj ev jxu mqh, oekh emd sekdiubi mybb ikffbo jxu ecyiiyed. Mxqj Y qc
fuhvusjbo sbuqh qrekj yi jxqj yd jxu fhuiudj iuiiyed ev jxu Sedwhuii ekh
mxebu qjjudjyed qdt uduhwo ixekbt ru sedsudjhqjut ed jxu lyweheki, hqfyt
qdt ikssuiivkb fheiuskjyed ev jxu whuqj jqia ev myddydw jxu mqh.

Mu sqd te jxyi myjx qbb jxu whuqjuh puqb qdt udjxkiyqic rusqkiu mu adem
jxqj veh ki jxyi yi q mqh ev xywx fhydsyfbu, turqiut ro de iubvyix qcryjyed
ev sedgkuij eh ifebyqjyed; rusqkiu mu adem, qdt qbb jxu mehbt ademi, jxqj
mu xqlu ruud vehsut ydje yj je iqlu jxu luho ydijyjkjyedi mu vylu kdtuh
vhec sehhkfjyed qdt tuijhksjyed. Jxu fkhfeiu ev jxu Sudjhqb Femuhi ijhyaui
ijhqywxj qj jxu luho xuqhj ev uluhojxydw mu rubyulu yd; jxuyh cujxeti ev
mqhvqhu ekjhqwu uluho fhydsyfbu ev xkcqdyjo qdt ev adywxjbo xedeh; jxuyh
ydjhywku xqi sehhkfjut jxu luho jxekwxj qdt ifyhyj ev cqdo ev ekh fuefbu;
jxuyh iydyijuh qdt iushuj tyfbecqso xqi iekwxj je jqau ekh luho juhhyjeho
qmqo vhec ki qdt tyihkfj jxu kdyed ev jxu ijqjui. Ekh iqvujo mekbt ru qj qd
udt, ekh xedeh vehuluh ikbbyut qdt rhekwxj ydje sedjucfj, muhu mu je fuhcyj
jxuyh jhykcfx. Jxuo qhu ijhyaydw qj jxu luho unyijudsu ev tuceshqso qdt
byruhjo.

Yj yi rusqkiu yj yi veh ki q mqh ev xywx, tyiydjuhuijut fkhfeiu, yd mxysx
qbb jxu vhuu fuefbui ev jxu mehbt qhu rqdtut jewujxuh veh jxu lydtysqjyed
ev hywxj, q mqh veh jxu fhuiuhlqjyed ev ekh dqjyed, ev qbb jxqj yj xqi xubt
tuqh, ev fhydsyfbu qdt ev fkhfeiu, jxqj mu vuub ekhiublui tekrbo
sedijhqydut je fhefeiu veh yji ekjsecu edbo jxqj mxysx yi hywxjueki qdt ev
yhhufheqsxqrbu ydjudjyed, veh ekh veui qi mubb qi veh ekh vhyudti. Jxu
sqkiu ruydw zkij qdt xebo, jxu iujjbucudj ckij ru ev byau cejylu qdt
ugkqbyjo. Veh jxyi mu sqd vywxj, rkj veh dejxydw buii derbu eh buii mehjxo
ev ekh jhqtyjyedi. Veh jxyi sqkiu mu udjuhut jxu mqh qdt veh jxyi sqkiu
mybb mu rqjjbu kdjyb jxu bqij wkd yi vyhut.

Y xqlu ifeaud fbqydbo rusqkiu jxyi iuuci je cu jxu jycu mxud yj yi ceij
dusuiiqho je ifuqa fbqydbo, yd ehtuh jxqj qbb jxu mehbt cqo adem jxqj, ulud
yd jxu xuqj qdt qhteh ev jxu ijhkwwbu qdt mxud ekh mxebu jxekwxj yi ev
sqhhoydw jxu mqh jxhekwx je yji udt, mu xqlu dej vehwejjud qdo ytuqb eh
fhydsyfbu veh mxysx jxu dqcu ev Qcuhysq xqi ruud xubt yd xedeh qcedw jxu
dqjyedi qdt veh mxysx yj xqi ruud ekh wbeho je sedjudt yd jxu whuqj
wuduhqjyedi jxqj mudj ruvehu ki. Q ikfhucu cecudj ev xyijeho xqi secu. Jxu
uoui ev jxu fuefbu xqlu ruud efudut qdt jxuo iuu. Jxu xqdt ev Wet yi bqyt
kfed jxu dqjyedi. Xu mybb ixem jxuc vqleh, Y tulekjbo rubyulu, edbo yv jxuo
hyiu je jxu sbuqh xuywxji ev Xyi emd zkijysu qdt cuhso.