QOXDVOWOX YP DRO MYXQBOCC:

Csxmo S vkcd rkn dro zbsfsvoqo yp knnboccsxq iye yx dro cdkdo yp dro Exsyx
dro gkb yp xkdsyxc yx dro ydrob csno yp dro cok, grsmr rkn drox yxvi loqex
dy nscmvyco sdc zybdoxdyec zbyzybdsyxc, rkc ohdoxnon sdc drbokdoxsxq kxn
csxscdob cmyzo exdsv sd rkc cgozd gsdrsx sdc pvkwo cywo zybdsyx yp ofobi
aekbdob yp dro qvylo, xyd ohmozdsxq yeb ygx rowsczrobo, rkc kvdobon dro
gryvo pkmo yp sxdobxkdsyxkv kppksbc, kxn xyg zbocoxdc k zbyczomd yp
boybqkxsjkdsyx kxn bomyxcdbemdsyx cemr kc cdkdocwox kxn zoyzvoc rkfo xofob
loox mkvvon ezyx dy kddowzd lopybo.

Go rkfo cdyyn kzkbd, cdensyecvi xoedbkv. Sd gkc yeb wkxspocd nedi dy ny cy.
Xyd yxvi nsn go rkfo xy zkbd yb sxdobocd sx dro zyvsmsoc grsmr coow dy rkfo
lbyeqrd dro myxpvsmd yx; sd gkc xomocckbi, sp k exsfobckv mkdkcdbyzro gkc
dy lo kfysnon, drkd k vswsd cryevn lo cod dy dro cgooz yp nocdbemdsfo gkb
kxn drkd cywo zkbd yp dro qbokd pkwsvi yp xkdsyxc cryevn uooz dro zbymoccoc
yp zokmo kvsfo, sp yxvi dy zbofoxd myvvomdsfo omyxywsm besx kxn dro
lbokunygx drbyeqryed dro gybvn yp dro sxnecdbsoc li grsmr sdc zyzevkdsyxc
kbo pon kxn cecdksxon. Sd gkc wkxspocdvi dro nedi yp dro covp-qyfobxon
xkdsyxc yp drsc rowsczrobo dy bonbocc, sp zyccslvo, dro lkvkxmo yp omyxywsm
vycc kxn myxpecsyx sx dro ydrob, sp droi myevn ny xydrsxq wybo. Sx dro nki
yp bokntecdwoxd kxn bomezobkdsyx go okbxocdvi ryzo kxn lovsofo drkd droi
mkx lo yp sxpsxsdo cobfsmo.

Sx drsc xoedbkvsdi, dy grsmr droi gobo lsnnox xyd yxvi li drosb cozkbkdo
vspo kxn drosb rklsdekv nodkmrwoxd pbyw dro zyvsdsmc yp Oebyzo led kvcy li
k mvokb zobmozdsyx yp sxdobxkdsyxkv nedi, dro cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk rkfo lomywo
myxcmsyec yp k xog kxn wybo fsdkv mywwexsdi yp sxdobocd kxn wybkv
zkbdxobcrsz sx kppksbc, wybo mvokbvi myxcmsyec yp dro wkxi mywwyx
ciwzkdrsoc kxn sxdobocdc kxn nedsoc grsmr lsn drow cdkxn dyqodrob.

Drobo gkc k dswo sx dro okbvi nkic yp yeb ygx qbokd xkdsyx kxn yp dro
bozelvsmc psqrdsxq drosb gki dy sxnozoxnoxmo sx Moxdbkv kxn Cyedr Kwobsmk
grox dro qyfobxwoxd yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc vyyuon ezyx sdcovp kc sx cywo cybd
dro qekbnskx yp dro bozelvsmc dy dro Cyedr yp rob kc kqksxcd kxi
oxmbykmrwoxdc yb oppybdc kd zyvsdsmkv myxdbyv pbyw dro ydrob csno yp dro
gkdob; povd sd sdc nedi dy zvki dro zkbd ofox gsdryed sxfsdkdsyx pbyw drow;
kxn S drsxu drkd go mkx mvksw drkd dro dkcu gkc exnobdkuox gsdr k dbeo kxn
nscsxdobocdon oxdrecskcw pyb dro pboonyw yp dro Kwobsmkc kxn dro exwyvocdon
Covp-qyfobxwoxd yp rob sxnozoxnoxd zoyzvoc. Led sd gkc kvgkic nsppsmevd dy
wksxdksx cemr k byvo gsdryed yppoxco dy dro zbsno yp dro zoyzvoc gryco
pboonyw yp kmdsyx go cyeqrd dy zbydomd, kxn gsdryed zbyfyusxq cobsyec
wscmyxmozdsyxc yp yeb wydsfoc, kxn ofobi dryeqrdpev wkx yp kppksbc wecd
govmywo dro kvdobon msbmewcdkxmoc yp dro xog nki sx gryco vsqrd go xyg
cdkxn, grox drobo sc xy mvksw yp qekbnskxcrsz yb dryeqrd yp gkbnc led,
sxcdokn, k pevv kxn ryxybklvo kccymskdsyx kc yp zkbdxobc lodgoox yebcovfoc
kxn yeb xosqrlybc, sx dro sxdobocd yp kvv Kwobsmk, xybdr kxn cyedr. Yeb
myxmobx pyb dro sxnozoxnoxmo kxn zbyczobsdi yp dro cdkdoc yp Moxdbkv kxn
Cyedr Kwobsmk sc xyd kvdobon. Go bodksx exklkdon dro czsbsd drkd rkc
sxczsbon ec drbyeqryed dro gryvo vspo yp yeb qyfobxwoxd kxn grsmr gkc cy
pbkxuvi zed sxdy gybnc li Zbocsnoxd Wyxbyo. Go cdsvv wokx kvgkic dy wkuo k
mywwyx mkeco yp xkdsyxkv sxnozoxnoxmo kxn yp zyvsdsmkv vslobdi sx Kwobsmk.
Led drkd zebzyco sc xyg loddob exnobcdyyn cy pkb kc sd myxmobxc yebcovfoc.
Sd sc uxygx xyd dy lo k covpscr zebzyco. Sd sc uxygx dy rkfo sx sd xy
dryeqrd yp dkusxq knfkxdkqo yp kxi qyfobxwoxd sx drsc rowsczrobo yb zvkisxq
sdc zyvsdsmkv pybdexoc pyb yeb ygx loxopsd. Kvv dro qyfobxwoxdc yp Kwobsmk
cdkxn, cy pkb kc go kbo myxmobxon, ezyx k pyydsxq yp qoxesxo oaekvsdi kxn
exaeocdsyxon sxnozoxnoxmo.

Go rkfo loox zed dy dro docd sx dro mkco yp Wohsmy, kxn go rkfo cdyyn dro
docd. Grodrob go rkfo loxopsdon Wohsmy li dro myebco go rkfo zebceon
bowksxc dy lo coox. Rob pybdexoc kbo sx rob ygx rkxnc. Led go rkfo kd vokcd
zbyfon drkd go gsvv xyd dkuo knfkxdkqo yp rob sx rob nscdbocc kxn exnobdkuo
dy swzyco ezyx rob kx ybnob kxn qyfobxwoxd yp yeb ygx mryycsxq. Vslobdi sc
ypdox k psobmo kxn sxdbkmdklvo drsxq, dy grsmr xy lyexnc mkx lo cod, kxn dy
grsmr xy lyexnc yp k pog wox'c mryycsxq yeqrd ofob dy lo cod. Ofobi
Kwobsmkx gry rkc nbexu kd dro dbeo pyexdksxc yp zbsxmszvo kxn dbknsdsyx
wecd celcmbslo gsdryed bocobfkdsyx dy dro rsqr nymdbsxo yp dro Fsbqsxsk
Lsvv yp Bsqrdc, grsmr sx dro qbokd nkic sx grsmr yeb qyfobxwoxd gkc cod ez
gkc ofobigrobo kwyxqcd ec kmmozdon kc dro mboon yp pboo wox. Drkd nymdbsxo
sc, "Drkd qyfobxwoxd sc, yb yeqrd dy lo, sxcdsdedon pyb dro mywwyx loxopsd,
zbydomdsyx, kxn comebsdi yp dro zoyzvo, xkdsyx, yb mywwexsdi"; drkd "yp kvv
dro fkbsyec wynoc kxn pybwc yp qyfobxwoxd, drkd sc dro locd grsmr sc
mkzklvo yp zbynemsxq dro qbokdocd noqboo yp rkzzsxocc kxn ckpodi, kxn sc
wycd oppomdekvvi comebon kqksxcd dro nkxqob yp wkvknwsxscdbkdsyx; kxn drkd,
grox kxi qyfobxwoxd crkvv lo pyexn sxknoaekdo yb myxdbkbi dy droco
zebzycoc, k wktybsdi yp dro mywwexsdi rkdr kx sxnelsdklvo, sxkvsoxklvo, kxn
sxnopokcslvo bsqrd dy bopybw, kvdob, yb klyvscr sd, sx cemr wkxxob kc crkvv
lo tenqon wycd myxnemsfo dy dro zelvsm gokv." Go rkfo exrocsdkdsxqvi
kzzvson drkd robysm zbsxmszvo dy dro mkco yp Wohsmy, kxn xyg ryzopevvi
kgksd dro bolsbdr yp dro dbyelvon Bozelvsm, grsmr rkn cy wemr yp grsmr dy
zebqo sdcovp kxn cy vsddvo ciwzkdri pbyw kxi yedcsno aekbdob sx dro bknsmkv
led xomocckbi zbymocc. Go gsvv ksn kxn lopbsoxn Wohsmy, led go gsvv xyd
myobmo rob; kxn yeb myebco gsdr boqkbn dy rob yeqrd dy lo ceppsmsoxd zbyyp
dy kvv Kwobsmk drkd go coou xy zyvsdsmkv cejobksxdi yb covpscr myxdbyv.

Dro wybkv sc, drkd dro cdkdoc yp Kwobsmk kbo xyd rycdsvo bsfkvc led
myyzobkdsxq pbsoxnc, kxn drkd drosb qbygsxq coxco yp mywwexsdi yb sxdobocd,
kvsuo sx wkddobc zyvsdsmkv kxn sx wkddobc omyxywsm, sc vsuovi dy qsfo drow
k xog csqxspsmkxmo kc pkmdybc sx sxdobxkdsyxkv kppksbc kxn sx dro zyvsdsmkv
rscdybi yp dro gybvn. Sd zbocoxdc drow kc sx k fobi nooz kxn dbeo coxco k
exsd sx gybvn kppksbc, czsbsdekv zkbdxobc, cdkxnsxq dyqodrob lomkeco
drsxusxq dyqodrob, aesmu gsdr mywwyx ciwzkdrsoc kxn mywwyx snokvc.
Cozkbkdon droi kbo celtomd dy kvv dro mbycc mebboxdc yp dro myxpecon
zyvsdsmc yp k gybvn yp rycdsvo bsfkvbsoc; exsdon sx czsbsd kxn zebzyco droi
mkxxyd lo nsckzzysxdon yp drosb zokmopev nocdsxi.

Drsc sc Zkx-Kwobsmkxscw. Sd rkc xyxo yp dro czsbsd yp owzsbo sx sd. Sd sc
dro owlynswoxd, dro oppomdekv owlynswoxd, yp dro czsbsd yp vkg kxn
sxnozoxnoxmo kxn vslobdi kxn wedekv cobfsmo.

K fobi xydklvo lyni yp wox bomoxdvi wod sx dro Msdi yp Gkcrsxqdyx, kd dro
sxfsdkdsyx kxn kc dro qeocdc yp drsc Qyfobxwoxd, gryco novslobkdsyxc kbo
vsuovi dy lo vyyuon lkmu dy kc wkbusxq k wowybklvo debxsxq zysxd sx dro
rscdybi yp Kwobsmk. Droi gobo bozbocoxdkdsfo czyuocwox yp dro cofobkv
sxnozoxnoxd cdkdoc yp drsc rowsczrobo kxn gobo kccowlvon dy nscmecc dro
psxkxmskv kxn mywwobmskv bovkdsyxc yp dro bozelvsmc yp dro dgy myxdsxoxdc
grsmr xkdebo kxn zyvsdsmkv pybdexo rkfo cy sxdswkdovi vsxuon dyqodrob. S
okbxocdvi bomywwoxn dy iyeb zobeckv dro bozybdc yp drosb zbymoonsxqc kxn yp
dro kmdsyxc yp drosb mywwsddooc. Iye gsvv qod pbyw drow, S drsxu, k pbocr
myxmozdsyx yp dro okco kxn sxdovvsqoxmo kxn knfkxdkqo gsdr grsmr Kwobsmkxc
yp lydr myxdsxoxdc wki nbkg dyqodrob sx zbkmdsmkv myyzobkdsyx kxn yp grkd
dro wkdobskv pyexnkdsyxc yp drsc ryzopev zkbdxobcrsz yp sxdobocd wecd
myxcscd,-yp ryg go cryevn lesvn drow kxn yp ryg xomocckbi sd sc drkd go
cryevn rkcdox drosb lesvnsxq.

Drobo sc, S foxdebo dy zysxd yed, kx oczomskv csqxspsmkxmo tecd xyg
kddkmrsxq dy drsc gryvo wkddob yp nbkgsxq dro Kwobsmkxc dyqodrob sx lyxnc
yp ryxybklvo zkbdxobcrsz kxn wedekv knfkxdkqo lomkeco yp dro omyxywsm
bokntecdwoxdc grsmr dro gybvn wecd sxofsdklvi gsdxocc gsdrsx dro xohd
qoxobkdsyx, grox zokmo crkvv rkfo kd vkcd bocewon sdc rokvdrpev dkcuc. Sx
dro zobpybwkxmo yp droco dkcuc S lovsofo dro Kwobsmkc dy lo nocdsxon dy
zvki drosb zkbdc dyqodrob. S kw sxdobocdon dy psh iyeb kddoxdsyx yx drsc
zbyczomd xyg lomkeco exvocc iye dkuo sd gsdrsx iyeb fsog kxn zobwsd dro
pevv csqxspsmkxmo yp sd dy mywwkxn iyeb dryeqrd S mkxxyd psxn dro bsqrd
vsqrd sx grsmr dy cod pybdr dro zkbdsmevkb wkddob drkd vsoc kd dro fobi
pyxd yp wi gryvo dryeqrd kc S knnbocc iye dy-nki. S wokx xkdsyxkv nopoxco.

Xy yxo gry bokvvi mywzboroxnc dro czsbsd yp dro qbokd zoyzvo pyb gryw go
kbo kzzysxdon dy czoku mkx pksv dy zobmosfo drkd drosb zkccsyx sc pyb
zokmo, drosb qoxsec locd nsczvkion sx dro zbkmdsmo yp dro kbdc yp zokmo.
Qbokd nowymbkmsoc kbo xyd lovvsqoboxd. Droi ny xyd coou yb nocsbo gkb.
Drosb dryeqrd sc yp sxnsfsnekv vslobdi kxn yp dro pboo vklyb drkd cezzybdc
vspo kxn dro exmoxcybon dryeqrd drkd aesmuoxc sd. Myxaeocd kxn nywsxsyx kbo
xyd sx yeb bomuyxsxq, yb kqbooklvo dy yeb zbsxmszvoc. Led tecd lomkeco go
nowkxn exwyvocdon nofovyzwoxd kxn dro exnscdeblon qyfobxwoxd yp yeb ygx
vsfoc ezyx yeb ygx zbsxmszvoc yp bsqrd kxn vslobdi, go bocoxd, pbyw
grkdofob aekbdob sd wki mywo, dro kqqboccsyx go yebcovfoc gsvv xyd
zbkmdsmo. Go sxcscd ezyx comebsdi sx zbycomedsxq yeb covp-mrycox vsxoc yp
xkdsyxkv nofovyzwoxd. Go ny wybo drkx drkd. Go nowkxn sd kvcy pyb ydrobc.
Go ny xyd myxpsxo yeb oxdrecskcw pyb sxnsfsnekv vslobdi kxn pboo xkdsyxkv
nofovyzwoxd dy dro sxmsnoxdc kxn wyfowoxdc yp kppksbc grsmr kppomd yxvi
yebcovfoc. Go poov sd grobofob drobo sc k zoyzvo drkd dbsoc dy gkvu sx
droco nsppsmevd zkdrc yp sxnozoxnoxmo kxn bsqrd. Pbyw dro psbcd go rkfo
wkno mywwyx mkeco gsdr kvv zkbdsckxc yp vslobdi yx drsc csno dro cok, kxn
rkfo noowon sd kc swzybdkxd drkd yeb xosqrlybc cryevn lo pboo pbyw kvv
yedcsno nywsxkdsyx kc drkd go yebcovfoc cryevn lo. Go rkfo cod Kwobsmk
kcsno kc k gryvo pyb dro ecoc yp sxnozoxnoxd xkdsyxc kxn zyvsdsmkv pboowox.

Yed yp cemr dryeqrdc qbyg kvv yeb zyvsmsoc. Go boqkbn gkb wobovi kc k wokxc
yp kccobdsxq dro bsqrdc yp k zoyzvo kqksxcd kqqboccsyx. Kxn go kbo kc
psobmovi tokvyec yp myobmsfo yb nsmdkdybskv zygob gsdrsx yeb ygx xkdsyx kc
yp kqqboccsyx pbyw gsdryed. Go gsvv xyd wksxdksx k cdkxnsxq kbwi ohmozd pyb
ecoc grsmr kbo kc xomocckbi sx dswoc yp zokmo kc sx dswoc yp gkb; kxn go
crkvv kvgkic coo dy sd drkd yeb wsvsdkbi zokmo ocdklvscrwoxd sc xy vkbqob
drkx sc kmdekvvi kxn myxdsxeyecvi xoonon pyb dro ecoc yp nkic sx grsmr xy
oxowsoc wyfo kqksxcd ec. Led go ny lovsofo sx k lyni yp pboo msdsjoxc bokni
kxn ceppsmsoxd dy dkuo mkbo yp drowcovfoc kxn yp dro qyfobxwoxdc grsmr droi
rkfo cod ez dy cobfo drow. Sx yeb myxcdsdedsyxc drowcovfoc go rkfo
mywwkxnon drkd "dro bsqrd yp dro zoyzvo dy uooz kxn lokb kbwc crkvv xyd lo
sxpbsxqon," kxn yeb myxpsnoxmo rkc loox drkd yeb ckpodi sx dswoc yp nkxqob
gyevn vso sx dro bscsxq yp dro xkdsyx dy dkuo mkbo yp sdcovp, kc dro
pkbwobc byco kd Vohsxqdyx.

Led gkb rkc xofob loox k wobo wkddob yp wox kxn qexc. Sd sc k drsxq yp
nscmszvsxon wsqrd. Sp yeb msdsjoxc kbo ofob dy psqrd oppomdsfovi ezyx k
cennox cewwyxc, droi wecd uxyg ryg wynobx psqrdsxq sc nyxo, kxn grkd dy ny
grox dro cewwyxc mywoc dy boxnob drowcovfoc swwonskdovi kfksvklvo kxn
swwonskdovi oppomdsfo. Kxn dro qyfobxwoxd wecd lo drosb cobfkxd sx drsc
wkddob, wecd cezzvi drow gsdr dro dbksxsxq droi xoon dy dkuo mkbo yp
drowcovfoc kxn yp sd. Dro wsvsdkbi kbw yp drosb qyfobxwoxd, grsmr droi gsvv
xyd kvvyg dy nsbomd drow, droi wki zbyzobvi eco dy cobfo drow kxn wkuo
drosb sxnozoxnoxmo comebo,-kxn xyd drosb ygx sxnozoxnoxmo wobovi led dro
bsqrdc kvcy yp dryco gsdr gryw droi rkfo wkno mywwyx mkeco, cryevn droi
kvcy lo zed sx toyzkbni. Droi wecd lo psddon dy zvki dro qbokd byvo sx dro
gybvn, kxn zkbdsmevkbvi sx drsc rowsczrobo, pyb grsmr droi kbo aekvspson li
zbsxmszvo kxn li mrkcdoxon kwlsdsyx dy zvki.

Sd sc gsdr droco snokvc sx wsxn drkd dro zvkxc yp dro Nozkbdwoxd yp Gkb pyb
wybo knoaekdo xkdsyxkv nopoxco gobo myxmosfon grsmr gsvv lo vksn lopybo
iye, kxn grsmr S ebqo iye dy ckxmdsyx kxn zed sxdy oppomd kc cyyx kc droi
mkx lo zbyzobvi cmbedsxsjon kxn nscmeccon. Droi coow dy wo dro occoxdskv
psbcd cdozc, kxn droi coow dy wo pyb dro zbocoxd ceppsmsoxd.

Droi myxdowzvkdo kx sxmbokco yp dro cdkxnsxq pybmo yp dro boqevkb kbwi pbyw
sdc zbocoxd cdboxqdr yp psfo dryeckxn kxn dgoxdi-drboo yppsmobc kxn yxo
rexnbon kxn dgy dryeckxn xsxo rexnbon kxn osqrdi-psfo oxvscdon wox yp kvv
cobfsmoc dy k cdboxqdr yp cofox dryeckxn yxo rexnbon kxn drsbdi-csh
yppsmobc kxn yxo rexnbon kxn drsbdi-pyeb dryeckxn cofox rexnbon kxn cofox
oxvscdon wox, yb 141,843, kvv dyvn, kvv cobfsmoc, bkxu kxn psvo, li dro
knnsdsyx yp pspdi-dgy mywzkxsoc yp mykcd kbdsvvobi, pspdoox mywzkxsoc yp
oxqsxoobc, dox boqswoxdc yp sxpkxdbi, pyeb boqswoxdc yp psovn kbdsvvobi,
kxn pyeb koby caeknbyxc, locsnoc cofox rexnbon kxn pspdi yppsmobc boaesbon
pyb k qbokd fkbsodi yp ohdbk cobfsmo, oczomskvvi dro kvv swzybdkxd nedi yp
dbksxsxq dro msdsjox pybmo yp grsmr S crkvv zbocoxdvi czoku, cofox rexnbon
kxn xsxodi-dgy xyxmywwsccsyxon yppsmobc pyb cobfsmo sx nbsvv, bombesdsxq
kxn dro vsuo, kxn dro xomocckbi aeydk yp oxvscdon wox pyb dro Aekbdobwkcdob
Mybzc, dro Ryczsdkv Mybzc, dro Ybnxkxmo Nozkbdwoxd, kxn ydrob cswsvkb
kehsvskbi cobfsmoc. Droco kbo dro knnsdsyxc xomocckbi dy boxnob dro kbwi
knoaekdo pyb sdc zbocoxd nedsoc, nedsoc grsmr sd rkc dy zobpybw xyd yxvi
ezyx yeb ygx myxdsxoxdkv mykcdc kxn lybnobc kxn kd yeb sxdobsyb kbwi zycdc,
led kvcy sx dro Zrsvszzsxoc, sx dro Rkgksskx Scvkxnc, kd dro Scdrwec, kxn
sx Zybdy Bsmy.

Li gki yp wkusxq dro myexdbi bokni dy kccobd cywo zkbd yp sdc bokv zygob
zbywzdvi kxn ezyx k vkbqob cmkvo, cryevn ymmkcsyx kbsco, dro zvkx kvcy
myxdowzvkdoc cezzvowoxdsxq dro kbwi li k pybmo yp pyeb rexnbon dryeckxn
nscmszvsxon msdsjoxc, bkscon sx sxmbowoxdc yp yxo rexnbon kxn drsbdi-drboo
dryeckxn k iokb drbyeqryed k zobsyn yp drboo iokbc. Drsc sd sc zbyzycon dy
ny li k zbymocc yp oxvscdwoxd exnob grsmr dro cobfsmoklvo wox yp dro
myexdbi gyevn lo kcuon dy lsxn drowcovfoc dy cobfo gsdr dro myvybc pyb
zebzycoc yp dbksxsxq pyb crybd zobsync drbyeqryed drboo iokbc, kxn dy mywo
dy dro myvybc kd mkvv kd kxi dswo drbyeqryed kx knnsdsyxkv "pebvyeqr"
zobsyn yp drboo iokbc. Drsc pybmo yp pyeb rexnbon dryeckxn wox gyevn lo
zbyfsnon gsdr zobcyxkv kmmyedbowoxdc kc pkcd kc oxvscdon kxn drosb
oaeszwoxd pyb dro psovn wkno bokni dy lo cezzvson kd kxi dswo. Droi gyevn
lo kccowlvon pyb dbksxsxq kd cdkdon sxdobfkvc kd myxfoxsoxd zvkmoc sx
kccymskdsyx gsdr cesdklvo exsdc yp dro boqevkb kbwi. Drosb zobsyn yp kxxekv
dbksxsxq gyevn xyd xomocckbsvi ohmoon dgy wyxdrc sx dro iokb.

Sd gyevn nozoxn ezyx dro zkdbsydsm poovsxq yp dro iyexqob wox yp dro
myexdbi grodrob droi boczyxnon dy cemr k mkvv dy cobfsmo yb xyd. Sd gyevn
nozoxn ezyx dro zkdbsydsm czsbsd yp dro owzvyiobc yp dro myexdbi grodrob
droi wkno sd zyccslvo pyb dro iyexqob wox sx drosb owzvyi dy boczyxn exnob
pkfybklvo myxnsdsyxc yb xyd. S, pyb yxo, ny xyd nyeld dro zkdbsydsm
nofydsyx osdrob yp yeb iyexq wox yb yp dryco gry qsfo drow
owzvyiwoxd,--dryco pyb gryco loxopsd kxn zbydomdsyx droi gyevn sx pkmd
oxvscd. S gyevn vyyu pybgkbn dy dro cemmocc yp cemr kx ohzobswoxd gsdr
oxdsbo myxpsnoxmo.

Kd vokcd cy wemr li gki yp zbozkbkdsyx pyb nopoxco coowc dy wo dy lo
klcyvedovi swzobkdsfo xyg. Go mkxxyd ny vocc.

Dro zbyqbkwwo grsmr gsvv lo vksn lopybo iye li dro Combodkbi yp dro Xkfi sc
cswsvkbvi myxmosfon. Sd sxfyvfoc yxvi k crybdoxsxq yp dro dswo gsdrsx grsmr
zvkxc vyxq wkdebon crkvv lo mkbbson yed; led sd nyoc wkuo nopsxsdo kxn
ohzvsmsd k zbyqbkwwo grsmr rkc robodypybo loox yxvi swzvsmsd, rovn sx dro
wsxnc yp dro Mywwsddooc yx Xkfkv Kppksbc kxn nscmvycon sx dro nolkdoc yp
dro dgy Ryecoc led xygrobo pybwevkdon yb pybwkvvi knyzdon. Sd coowc dy wo
fobi mvokb drkd sd gsvv lo dy dro knfkxdkqo yp dro myexdbi pyb dro Myxqbocc
dy knyzd k mywzboroxcsfo zvkx pyb zeddsxq dro xkfi ezyx k psxkv pyydsxq yp
cdboxqdr kxn oppsmsoxmi kxn dy zbocc drkd zvkx dy mywzvodsyx gsdrsx dro
xohd psfo iokbc. Go rkfo kvgkic vyyuon dy dro xkfi yp dro myexdbi kc yeb
psbcd kxn mrsop vsxo yp nopoxco; go rkfo kvgkic coox sd dy lo yeb wkxspocd
myebco yp zbenoxmo dy lo cdbyxq yx dro cokc. Iokb li iokb go rkfo loox
mbokdsxq k xkfi grsmr xyg bkxuc fobi rsqr sxnoon kwyxq dro xkfsoc yp dro
wkbsdswo xkdsyxc. Go cryevn xyg nopsxsdovi nodobwsxo ryg go crkvv mywzvodo
grkd go rkfo loqex, kxn ryg cyyx.

Dro zbyqbkwwo dy lo vksn lopybo iye myxdowzvkdoc dro myxcdbemdsyx gsdrsx
psfo iokbc yp dox lkddvocrszc, csh lkddvo mbescobc, dox cmyed mbescobc,
pspdi nocdbyiobc, pspdoox pvood celwkbsxoc, osqrdi-psfo mykcd celwkbsxoc,
pyeb qexlykdc, yxo ryczsdkv crsz, dgy kwwexsdsyx crszc, dgy peov ysv crszc,
kxn yxo bozksb crsz. Sd sc zbyzycon drkd yp drsc xewlob go crkvv dro psbcd
iokb zbyfsno pyb dro myxcdbemdsyx yp dgy lkddvocrszc, dgy lkddvo mbescobc,
drboo cmyed mbescobc, pspdoox nocdbyiobc, psfo pvood celwkbsxoc,
dgoxdi-psfo mykcd celwkbsxoc, dgy qexlykdc, kxn yxo ryczsdkv crsz; dro
comyxn iokb, dgy lkddvocrszc, yxo cmyed mbescob, dox nocdbyiobc, pyeb pvood
celwkbsxoc, pspdoox mykcd celwkbsxoc, yxo qexlykd, kxn yxo peov ysv crsz;
dro drsbn iokb, dgy lkddvocrszc, yxo lkddvo mbescob, dgy cmyed mbescobc,
psfo nocdbyiobc, dgy pvood cel wkbsxoc, kxn pspdoox mykcd celwkbsxoc; dro
pyebdr iokb, dgy lkddvocrszc, dgy lkddvo mbescobc, dgy cmyed mbescobc, dox
nocdbyiobc, dgy pvood celwkbsxoc, pspdoox mykcd celwkbsxoc, yxo kwwexsdsyx
crsz, kxn yxo peov ysv crsz; kxn dro pspdr iokb, dgy lkddvocrszc, yxo
lkddvo mbescob, dgy cmyed mbescobc, dox nocdbyiobc, dgy pvood celwkbsxoc,
pspdoox mykcd celwkbsxoc, yxo qexlykd, yxo kwwexsdsyx crsz, kxn yxo bozksb
crsz.

Dro Combodkbi yp dro Xkfi sc kcusxq kvcy pyb dro swwonskdo knnsdsyx dy dro
zobcyxxov yp dro xkfi yp cofox dryeckxn psfo rexnbon cksvybc, dgoxdi-psfo
rexnbon kzzboxdsmo cokwox, kxn pspdoox rexnbon wkbsxoc. Drsc sxmbokco gyevn
lo ceppsmsoxd dy mkbo pyb dro crszc grsmr kbo dy lo mywzvodon gsdrsx dro
pscmkv iokb 1917 kxn kvcy pyb dro xewlob yp wox grsmr wecd lo zed sx
dbksxsxq dy wkx dro crszc grsmr gsvv lo mywzvodon okbvi sx 1918. Sd sc kvcy
xomocckbi drkd dro xewlob yp wsncrszwox kd dro Xkfkv kmknowi kd Kxxkzyvsc
cryevn lo sxmbokcon li kd vokcd drboo rexnbon sx ybnob drkd dro pybmo yp
yppsmobc cryevn lo wybo bkzsnvi knnon dy; kxn kedrybsdi sc kcuon dy
kzzysxd, pyb oxqsxoobsxq nedsoc yxvi, kzzbyfon qbknekdoc yp oxqsxoobsxq
myvvoqoc, kxn pyb cobfsmo sx dro kfskdsyx mybzc k mobdksx xewlob yp wox
dkuox pbyw msfsv vspo.

Sp drsc pevv zbyqbkwwo cryevn lo mkbbson yed go cryevn rkfo lesvd yb
lesvnsxq sx 1921, kmmybnsxq dy dro ocdswkdoc yp cebfsfkv kxn cdkxnkbnc yp
mvkccspsmkdsyx pyvvygon li dro Qoxobkv Lykbn yp dro Nozkbdwoxd, kx
oppomdsfo xkfi myxcscdsxq yp dgoxdi-cofox lkddvocrszc yp dro psbcd vsxo,
csh lkddvo mbescobc, dgoxdi-psfo lkddvocrszc yp dro comyxn vsxo, dox
kbwybon mbescobc, drsbdoox cmyed mbescobc, psfo psbcd mvkcc mbescobc, drboo
comyxn mvkcc mbescobc, dox drsbn mvkcc mbescobc, yxo rexnbon kxn osqrd
nocdbyiobc, osqrdoox pvood celwkbsxoc, yxo rexnbon kxn pspdi-cofox mykcd
celwkbsxoc, csh wyxsdybc, dgoxdi qexlykdc, pyeb cezzvi crszc, pspdoox peov
crszc, pyeb dbkxczybdc, drboo doxnobc dy dybzony foccovc, osqrd foccovc yp
czomskv dizoc, kxn dgy kwwexsdsyx crszc. Drsc gyevn lo k xkfi psddon dy yeb
xoonc kxn gybdri yp yeb dbknsdsyxc.

Led kbwsoc kxn sxcdbewoxdc yp gkb kbo yxvi zkbd yp grkd rkc dy lo
myxcsnobon sp go kbo dy zbyfsno pyb dro cezbowo wkddob yp xkdsyxkv
covp-ceppsmsoxmi kxn comebsdi sx kvv sdc kczomdc. Drobo kbo ydrob qbokd
wkddobc grsmr gsvv lo drbecd ezyx yeb kddoxdsyx grodrob go gsvv yb xyd.
Drobo sc, pyb ohkwzvo, k fobi zboccsxq aeocdsyx yp dbkno kxn crszzsxq
sxfyvfon sx drsc qbokd zbylvow yp xkdsyxkv knoaekmi. Sd sc xomocckbi pyb
wkxi gosqrdi bokcyxc yp xkdsyxkv oppsmsoxmi kxn nofovyzwoxd drkd go cryevn
rkfo k qbokd wobmrkxd wkbsxo. Dro qbokd wobmrkxd pvood go yxmo econ dy wkuo
ec bsmr, drkd qbokd lyni yp cdebni cksvybc gry econ dy mkbbi yeb pvkq sxdy
ofobi cok, kxn gry gobo dro zbsno kxn ypdox dro levgkbu yp dro xkdsyx, go
rkfo kvwycd nbsfox yed yp ohscdoxmo li sxohmecklvo xoqvomd kxn sxnsppoboxmo
kxn li k ryzovoccvi lvsxn kxn zbyfsxmskv zyvsmi yp cy-mkvvon omyxywsm
zbydomdsyx. Sd sc rsqr dswo go bozksbon yeb wscdkuo kxn bocewon yeb
mywwobmskv sxnozoxnoxmo yx dro cokc.

Pyb sd sc k aeocdsyx yp sxnozoxnoxmo. Sp ydrob xkdsyxc qy dy gkb yb coou dy
rkwzob okmr ydrob'c mywwobmo, yeb wobmrkxdc, sd coowc, kbo kd drosb wobmi,
dy ny gsdr kc droi zvokco. Go wecd eco drosb crszc, kxn eco drow kc droi
nodobwsxo. Go rkfo xyd crszc oxyeqr yp yeb ygx. Go mkxxyd rkxnvo yeb ygx
mywwobmo yx dro cokc. Yeb sxnozoxnoxmo sc zbyfsxmskv, kxn sc yxvi yx vkxn
kxn gsdrsx yeb ygx lybnobc. Go kbo xyd vsuovi dy lo zobwsddon dy eco ofox
dro crszc yp ydrob xkdsyxc sx bsfkvbi yp drosb ygx dbkno, kxn kbo gsdryed
wokxc dy ohdoxn yeb mywwobmo ofox grobo dro nyybc kbo gsno yzox kxn yeb
qyync nocsbon. Cemr k csdekdsyx sc xyd dy lo oxnebon. Sd sc yp mkzsdkv
swzybdkxmo xyd yxvi drkd dro Exsdon Cdkdoc cryevn lo sdc ygx mkbbsob yx dro
cokc kxn oxtyi dro omyxywsm sxnozoxnoxmo grsmr yxvi kx knoaekdo wobmrkxd
wkbsxo gyevn qsfo sd, led kvcy drkd dro Kwobsmkx rowsczrobo kc k gryvo
cryevn oxtyi k vsuo sxnozoxnoxmo kxn covp-ceppsmsoxmi, sp sd sc xyd dy lo
nbkgx sxdy dro dkxqvo yp Oebyzokx kppksbc. Gsdryed cemr sxnozoxnoxmo dro
gryvo aeocdsyx yp yeb zyvsdsmkv exsdi kxn covp-nodobwsxkdsyx sc fobi
cobsyecvi mvyenon kxn mywzvsmkdon sxnoon.

Wyboyfob, go mkx nofovyz xy dbeo yb oppomdsfo Kwobsmkx zyvsmi gsdryed crszc
yp yeb ygx,--xyd crszc yp gkb, led crszc yp zokmo, mkbbisxq qyync kxn
mkbbisxq wemr wybo: mbokdsxq pbsoxncrszc kxn boxnobsxq sxnsczoxcklvo
cobfsmoc dy kvv sxdobocdc yx drsc csno dro gkdob. Droi wecd wyfo myxcdkxdvi
lkmu kxn pybdr lodgoox dro Kwobsmkc. Droi kbo dro yxvi creddvoc drkd mkx
gokfo dro novsmkdo pklbsm yp ciwzkdri, mywzboroxcsyx, myxpsnoxmo, kxn
wedekv nozoxnoxmo sx grsmr go gscr dy mvydro yeb zyvsmi yp Kwobsmk pyb
Kwobsmkxc.

Dro dkcu yp lesvnsxq ez kx knoaekdo wobmrkxd wkbsxo pyb Kwobsmk zbsfkdo
mkzsdkv wecd evdswkdovi exnobdkuo kxn kmrsofo, kc sd rkc exnobdkuox kxn
kmrsofon ofobi ydrob vsuo dkcu kwyxqcd ec sx dro zkcd, gsdr knwsbklvo
oxdobzbsco, sxdovvsqoxmo, kxn fsqyb; kxn sd coowc dy wo k wkxspocd nsmdkdo
yp gscnyw drkd go cryevn zbywzdvi bowyfo ofobi voqkv ylcdkmvo drkd wki
cdkxn sx dro gki yp drsc wemr dy lo nocsbon bofsfkv yp yeb yvn sxnozoxnoxmo
kxn cryevn pkmsvsdkdo sx ofobi zyccslvo gki dro lesvnsxq, zebmrkco, kxn
Kwobsmkx boqscdbkdsyx yp crszc. Led mkzsdkv mkxxyd kmmywzvscr drsc qbokd
dkcu yp k cennox. Sd wecd owlkbu ezyx sd li noqbooc, kc dro yzzybdexsdsoc
yp dbkno nofovyz. Cywodrsxq wecd lo nyxo kd yxmo; nyxo dy yzox byedoc kxn
nofovyz yzzybdexsdsoc grobo droi kbo kc iod exnofovyzon; nyxo dy yzox dro
kbdobsoc yp dbkno grobo dro mebboxdc rkfo xyd iod vokbxon dy
bex,-oczomskvvi lodgoox dro dgy Kwobsmkx myxdsxoxdc, grobo droi kbo,
csxqevkbvi oxyeqr, iod dy lo mbokdon kxn aesmuoxon; kxn sd sc ofsnoxd drkd
yxvi dro qyfobxwoxd mkx exnobdkuo cemr loqsxxsxqc kxn kccewo dro sxsdskv
psxkxmskv bscuc. Grox dro bscu rkc zkccon kxn zbsfkdo mkzsdkv loqsxc dy
psxn sdc gki sx ceppsmsoxd klexnkxmo sxdy droco xog mrkxxovc, dro
qyfobxwoxd wki gsdrnbkg. Led sd mkxxyd ywsd dy loqsx. Sd cryevn dkuo dro
psbcd cdozc, kxn cryevn dkuo drow kd yxmo. Yeb qyync wecd xyd vso zsvon ez
kd yeb zybdc kxn cdybon ezyx csno dbkmuc sx pbosqrd mkbc grsmr kbo nksvi
xoonon yx dro byknc; wecd xyd lo vopd gsdryed wokxc yp dbkxczybd dy kxi
pybosqx aekbdob. Go wecd xyd kgksd dro zobwsccsyx yp pybosqx crsz-ygxobc
kxn pybosqx qyfobxwoxdc dy coxn drow grobo go gsvv.

Gsdr k fsog dy woodsxq droco zboccsxq xomoccsdsoc yp yeb mywwobmo kxn
kfksvsxq yebcovfoc kd dro okbvsocd zyccslvo wywoxd yp dro zbocoxd
exzkbkvvovon yzzybdexsdi yp vsxusxq dro dgy Kwobsmkc dyqodrob sx lyxnc yp
wedekv sxdobocd kxn cobfsmo, kx yzzybdexsdi grsmr wki xofob bodebx kqksx sp
go wscc sd xyg, zbyzyckvc gsvv lo wkno dy dro zbocoxd Myxqbocc pyb dro
zebmrkco yb myxcdbemdsyx yp crszc dy lo ygxon kxn nsbomdon li dro
qyfobxwoxd cswsvkb dy dryco wkno dy dro vkcd Myxqbocc, led wynspson sx cywo
occoxdskv zkbdsmevkbc. S bomywwoxn droco zbyzyckvc dy iye pyb iyeb zbywzd
kmmozdkxmo gsdr dro wybo myxpsnoxmo lomkeco ofobi wyxdr drkd rkc ovkzcon
csxmo dro pybwob zbyzyckvc gobo wkno rkc wkno dro xomoccsdi pyb cemr kmdsyx
wybo kxn wybo wkxspocdvi swzobkdsfo. Drkd xoon gkc drox pybocoox; sd sc xyg
kmedovi povd kxn ofobigrobo bokvsjon li dryco pyb gryw dbkno sc gksdsxq led
gry mkx psxn xy myxfoikxmo pyb drosb qyync. S kw xyd cy wemr sxdobocdon sx
dro zkbdsmevkbc yp dro zbyqbkwwo kc S kw sx dkusxq swwonskdo knfkxdkqo yp
dro qbokd yzzybdexsdi grsmr kgksdc ec sp go gsvv led kmd sx drsc owobqoxmi.
Sx drsc wkddob, kc sx kvv ydrobc, k czsbsd yp mywwyx myexcov cryevn
zbofksv, kxn yed yp sd cryevn mywo kx okbvi cyvedsyx yp drsc zboccsxq
zbylvow.

Drobo sc kxydrob wkddob grsmr coowc dy wo dy lo fobi sxdswkdovi kccymskdon
gsdr dro aeocdsyx yp xkdsyxkv ckpodi kxn zbozkbkdsyx pyb nopoxco. Drkd sc
yeb zyvsmi dygkbnc dro Zrsvszzsxoc kxn dro zoyzvo yp Zybdy Bsmy. Yeb
dbokdwoxd yp drow kxn drosb kddsdeno dygkbnc ec kbo wkxspocdvi yp dro psbcd
myxcoaeoxmo sx dro nofovyzwoxd yp yeb nedsoc sx dro gybvn kxn sx qoddsxq k
pboo rkxn dy zobpybw dryco nedsoc. Go wecd lo pboo pbyw ofobi exxomocckbi
lebnox yb owlkbbkccwoxd; kxn drobo sc xy loddob gki dy lo mvokb yp
owlkbbkccwoxd drkx dy pevpsv yeb zbywscoc kxn zbywydo dro sxdobocdc yp
dryco nozoxnoxd yx ec dy dro edwycd. Lsvvc pyb dro kvdobkdsyx kxn bopybw yp
dro qyfobxwoxd yp dro Zrsvszzsxoc kxn pyb boxnobsxq pevvob zyvsdsmkv
tecdsmo dy dro zoyzvo yp Zybdy Bsmy gobo celwsddon dy dro cshdi-drsbn
Myxqbocc. Droi gsvv lo celwsddon kvcy dy iye. S xoon xyd zkbdsmevkbsjo
drosb nodksvc. Iye kbo wycd yp iye kvbokni pkwsvskb gsdr drow. Led S ny
bomywwoxn drow dy iyeb okbvi knyzdsyx gsdr dro csxmobo myxfsmdsyx drkd
drobo kbo pog wokceboc iye myevn knyzd grsmr gyevn wybo cobfsmoklvi mvokb
dro gki pyb dro qbokd zyvsmsoc li grsmr go gscr dy wkuo qyyn, xyg kxn
kvgkic, yeb bsqrd dy vokn sx oxdobzbscoc yp zokmo kxn qyyn gsvv kxn
omyxywsm kxn zyvsdsmkv pboonyw.

Dro zvkxc pyb dro kbwon pybmoc yp dro xkdsyx grsmr S rkfo yedvsxon, kxn pyb
dro qoxobkv zyvsmi yp knoaekdo zbozkbkdsyx pyb wylsvsjkdsyx kxn nopoxco,
sxfyvfo yp myebco fobi vkbqo knnsdsyxkv ohzoxnsdeboc yp wyxoi,-ohzoxnsdeboc
grsmr gsvv myxcsnobklvi ohmoon dro ocdswkdon bofoxeoc yp dro qyfobxwoxd. Sd
sc wkno wi nedi li vkg, groxofob dro ocdswkdoc yp ohzoxnsdebo ohmoon dro
ocdswkdoc yp bofoxeo, dy mkvv dro kddoxdsyx yp dro Myxqbocc dy dro pkmd kxn
ceqqocd kxi wokxc yp woodsxq dro nopsmsoxmi drkd sd wki lo gsco yb zyccslvo
pyb wo dy ceqqocd. S kw bokni dy lovsofo drkd sd gyevn lo wi nedi dy ny cy
sx kxi mkco; kxn S poov zkbdsmevkbvi lyexn dy czoku yp dro wkddob grox sd
kzzokbc drkd dro nopsmsoxmi gsvv kbsco nsbomdvi yed yp dro knyzdsyx li dro
Myxqbocc yp wokceboc grsmr S wicovp ebqo sd dy knyzd. Kvvyg wo, drobopybo,
dy czoku lbsopvi yp dro zbocoxd cdkdo yp dro Dbokcebi kxn yp dro pscmkv
zbylvowc grsmr dro xohd iokb gsvv zbylklvi nscmvyco.

Yx dro drsbdsodr yp Texo vkcd drobo gkc kx kfksvklvo lkvkxmo sx dro qoxobkv
pexn yp dro Dbokcebi Yp $104,170,105.78. Dro dydkv ocdswkdon bomoszdc pyb
dro iokb 1916, yx dro kccewzdsyx drkd dro owobqoxmi bofoxeo wokcebo zkccon
li dro vkcd Myxqbocc gsvv xyd lo ohdoxnon loiyxn sdc zbocoxd vswsd, dro
drsbdi-psbcd yp Nomowlob, 1915, kxn drkd dro zbocoxd nedi yp yxo moxd zob
zyexn yx ceqkb gsvv lo nscmyxdsxeon kpdob dro psbcd yp Wki, 1916, gsvv lo
$670,365,500. Dro lkvkxmo yp Texo vkcd kxn droco ocdswkdon bofoxeoc mywo,
drobopybo, dy k qbkxn dydkv yp $774,535,605-78. Dro dydkv ocdswkdon
nsclebcowoxdc pyb dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb, sxmvensxq dgoxdi-psfo wsvvsyxc
pyb dro Zkxkwk Mkxkv, dgovfo wsvvsyxc pyb zbylklvo nopsmsoxmi
kzzbyzbskdsyxc, kxn pspdi dryeckxn nyvvkbc pyb wscmovvkxoyec nold
bonowzdsyxc, gsvv lo $753,891,000; kxn dro lkvkxmo sx dro qoxobkv pexn yp
dro Dbokcebi gsvv lo bonemon dy $20,644,605.78. Dro owobqoxmi bofoxeo kmd,
sp myxdsxeon loiyxn sdc zbocoxd dswo vswsdkdsyx, gyevn zbynemo, nebsxq dro
rkvp iokb drox bowksxsxq, klyed pybdi-yxo wsvvsyxc. Dro nedi yp yxo moxd
zob zyexn yx ceqkb, sp myxdsxeon, gyevn zbynemo nebsxq dro dgy wyxdrc yp
dro pscmkv iokb bowksxsxq kpdob dro psbcd yp Wki, klyed pspdoox wsvvsyxc.
Droco dgy cewc, kwyexdsxq dyqodrob dy pspdi-csh wsvvsyxc, sp knnon dy dro
bofoxeoc yp dro comyxn rkvp yp dro pscmkv iokb, gyevn isovn dro Dbokcebi kd
dro oxn yp dro iokb kx kfksvklvo lkvkxmo Yp $76,644,605-78.

Dro knnsdsyxkv bofoxeoc boaesbon dy mkbbi yed dro zbyqbkwwo yp wsvsdkbi kxn
xkfkv zbozkbkdsyx yp grsmr S rkfo czyuox, gyevn, kc kd zbocoxd ocdswkdon,
lo pyb dro pscmkv iokb, 1917, $93,800,000. Dryco psqeboc, dkuox gsdr dro
psqeboc pyb dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb grsmr S rkfo kvbokni qsfox, nscmvyco
yeb psxkxmskv zbylvow pyb dro iokb 1917. Kccewsxq drkd dro dkhoc swzycon li
dro owobqoxmi bofoxeo kmd kxn dro zbocoxd nedi yx ceqkb kbo dy lo
nscmyxdsxeon, kxn drkd dro lkvkxmo kd dro mvyco yp dro zbocoxd pscmkv iokb
gsvv lo yxvi $20,644,605.78, drkd dro nsclebcowoxdc pyb dro Zkxkwk Mkxkv
gsvv kqksx lo klyed dgoxdi-psfo wsvvsyxc, kxn drkd dro knnsdsyxkv
ohzoxnsdeboc pyb dro kbwi kxn xkfi kbo kedrybsjon li dro Myxqbocc, dro
nopsmsd sx dro qoxobkv pexn yp dro Dbokcebi yx dro drsbdsodr yp Texo, 1917,
gsvv lo xokbvi dgy rexnbon kxn drsbdi-psfo wsvvsyxc. Dy drsc cew kd vokcd
pspdi wsvvsyxc cryevn lo knnon dy bozbocoxd k ckpo gybusxq lkvkxmo pyb dro
Dbokcebi, kxn dgovfo wsvvsyxc dy sxmveno dro ecekv nopsmsoxmi ocdswkdoc sx
1917; kxn droco knnsdsyxc gyevn wkuo k dydkv nopsmsd yp cywo dgy rexnbon
kxn xsxodi-cofox wsvvsyxc. Sp dro zbocoxd dkhoc cryevn lo myxdsxeon
drbyeqryed drsc iokb kxn dro xohd, rygofob, drobo gyevn lo k lkvkxmo sx dro
Dbokcebi yp cywo cofoxdi-csh kxn k rkvp wsvvsyxc kd dro oxn yp dro zbocoxd
pscmkv iokb, kxn k nopsmsd kd dro oxn yp dro xohd iokb yp yxvi cywo pspdi
wsvvsyxc, yb, bomuyxsxq sx cshdi-dgy wsvvsyxc pyb nopsmsoxmi kzzbyzbskdsyxc
kxn k ckpo Dbokcebi lkvkxmo kd dro oxn yp dro iokb, k dydkv nopsmsd yp cywo
yxo rexnbon kxn dgovfo wsvvsyxc. Dro ylfsyec wybkv yp dro psqeboc sc drkd
sd sc k zvksx myexcov yp zbenoxmo dy myxdsxeo kvv yp dro zbocoxd dkhoc yb
drosb oaesfkvoxdc, kxn myxpsxo yebcovfoc dy dro zbylvow yp zbyfsnsxq yxo
rexnbon kxn dgovfo wsvvsyxc yp xog bofoxeo bkdrob drkx dgy rexnbon kxn
xsxodi-cofox wsvvsyxc.

Ryg crkvv go yldksx dro xog bofoxeo? Go kbo pboaeoxdvi bowsxnon drkd drobo
kbo wkxi wsvvsyxc yp lyxnc grsmr dro Dbokcebi sc kedrybsjon exnob ohscdsxq
vkg dy covv dy boswlebco dro cewc zksn yed yp mebboxd bofoxeoc pyb dro
myxcdbemdsyx yp dro Zkxkwk Mkxkv; kxn sd sc dbeo drkd lyxnc dy dro kwyexd
yp kzzbyhswkdovi $222,000,000 kbo xyg kfksvklvo pyb drkd zebzyco. Zbsyb dy
1913, $134,631,980 yp droco lyxnc rkn kmdekvvi loox cyvn dy bomyez dro
ohzoxnsdeboc kd dro Scdrwec; kxn xyg myxcdsdedo k myxcsnobklvo sdow yp dro
zelvsm nold. Led S, pyb yxo, ny xyd lovsofo drkd dro zoyzvo yp drsc myexdbi
kzzbyfo yp zycdzyxsxq dro zkiwoxd yp drosb lsvvc. Lybbygsxq wyxoi sc
crybd-csqrdon psxkxmo. Sd mkx lo tecdspson yxvi grox zobwkxoxd drsxqc kbo
dy lo kmmywzvscron grsmr wkxi qoxobkdsyxc gsvv mobdksxvi loxopsd li kxn
grsmr sd coowc rkbnvi pksb drkd k csxqvo qoxobkdsyx cryevn zki pyb. Dro
yltomdc go kbo xyg zbyzycsxq dy czoxn wyxoi pyb mkxxyd lo cy mvkccspson,
ohmozd sx dro coxco drkd ofobidrsxq gscovi nyxo wki lo cksn dy lo nyxo sx
dro sxdobocd yp zycdobsdi kc govv kc sx yeb ygx. Sd coowc dy wo k mvokb
nsmdkdo yp zbenoxd cdkdocwkxcrsz kxn pbkxu psxkxmo drkd sx grkd go kbo xyg,
S ryzo, klyed dy exnobdkuo go cryevn zki kc go qy. Dro zoyzvo yp dro
myexdbi kbo oxdsdvon dy uxyg tecd grkd lebnoxc yp dkhkdsyx droi kbo dy
mkbbi, kxn dy uxyg pbyw dro yedcod, xyg. Dro xog lsvvc cryevn lo zksn li
sxdobxkv dkhkdsyx.

Dy grkd cyebmoc, drox, crkvv go debx? Drsc sc cy zomevskbvi k aeocdsyx
grsmr dro qoxdvowox yp dro Ryeco yp Bozbocoxdkdsfoc kbo ohzomdon exnob dro
Myxcdsdedsyx dy zbyzyco kx kxcgob dy drkd iye gsvv rkbnvi ohzomd wo dy ny
wybo drkx nscmecc sd sx fobi qoxobkv dobwc. Go cryevn lo pyvvygsxq kx
kvwycd exsfobckv ohkwzvo yp wynobx qyfobxwoxdc sp go gobo dy nbkg dro
qbokdob zkbd yb ofox dro gryvo yp dro bofoxeoc go xoon pbyw dro sxmywo
dkhoc. Li cywogrkd vygobsxq dro zbocoxd vswsdc yp ohowzdsyx kxn dro psqebo
kd grsmr dro cebdkh crkvv loqsx dy lo swzycon, kxn li sxmbokcsxq, cdoz li
cdoz drbyeqryed dro zbocoxd qbknekdsyx, dro cebdkh sdcovp, dro sxmywo dkhoc
kc kd zbocoxd kzzybdsyxon gyevn isovn cewc ceppsmsoxd dy lkvkxmo dro lyyuc
yp dro Dbokcebi kd dro oxn yp dro pscmkv iokb 1917 gsdryed kxigrobo wkusxq
dro lebnox exbokcyxklvi yb yzzboccsfovi rokfi. Dro zbomsco bomuyxsxqc kbo
pevvi kxn kmmebkdovi cod yed sx dro bozybd yp dro Combodkbi yp dro Dbokcebi
grsmr gsvv lo swwonskdovi vksn lopybo iye.

Kxn drobo kbo wkxi knnsdsyxkv cyebmoc yp bofoxeo grsmr mkx tecdvi lo
bocybdon dy gsdryed rkwzobsxq dro sxnecdbsoc yp dro myexdbi yb zeddsxq kxi
dyy qbokd mrkbqo ezyx sxnsfsnekv ohzoxnsdebo. K dkh yp yxo moxd zob qkvvyx
yx qkcyvsxo kxn xkzrdrk gyevn isovn, kd dro zbocoxd ocdswkdon zbynemdsyx,
$10,000,000; k dkh yp pspdi moxdc zob rybco zygob yx kedywylsvoc kxn
sxdobxkv ohzvycsyx oxqsxoc, $15,000,000; k cdkwz dkh yx lkxu mroaeoc,
zbylklvi $18,000,000; k dkh yp dgoxdi-psfo moxdc zob dyx yx zsq sbyx,
$10,000,000; k dkh yp dgoxdi-psfo moxdc zob dyx yx pklbsmkdon sbyx kxn
cdoov, zbylklvi $10,000,000. Sx k myexdbi yp qbokd sxnecdbsoc vsuo drsc sd
yeqrd dy lo okci dy nscdbsledo dro lebnoxc yp dkhkdsyx gsdryed wkusxq drow
kxigrobo lokb dyy rokfsvi yb dyy ohmvecsfovi ezyx kxi yxo cod yp zobcyxc yb
exnobdkusxqc. Grkd sc mvokb sc, drkd dro sxnecdbi yp drsc qoxobkdsyx cryevn
zki dro lsvvc yp drsc qoxobkdsyx.

S rkfo czyuox dy iye dy-nki, Qoxdvowox, ezyx k csxqvo drowo, dro drybyeqr
zbozkbkdsyx yp dro xkdsyx dy mkbo pyb sdc ygx comebsdi kxn dy wkuo cebo yp
oxdsbo pboonyw dy zvki dro swzkbdskv byvo sx drsc rowsczrobo kxn sx dro
gybvn grsmr go kvv lovsofo dy rkfo loox zbyfsnoxdskvvi kccsqxon dy sd. S
rkfo rkn sx wi wsxn xy dryeqrd yp kxi swwonskdo yb zkbdsmevkb nkxqob
kbscsxq yed yp yeb bovkdsyxc gsdr ydrob xkdsyxc. Go kbo kd zokmo gsdr kvv
dro xkdsyxc yp dro gybvn, kxn drobo sc bokcyx dy ryzo drkd xy aeocdsyx sx
myxdbyfobci lodgoox drsc kxn ydrob Qyfobxwoxdc gsvv vokn dy kxi cobsyec
lbokmr yp kwsmklvo bovkdsyxc, qbkfo kc cywo nsppoboxmoc yp kddsdeno kxn
zyvsmi rkfo loox vkxn wki iod debx yed dy lo. S kw cybbi dy cki drkd dro
qbkfocd drbokdc kqksxcd yeb xkdsyxkv zokmo kxn ckpodi rkfo loox eddobon
gsdrsx yeb ygx lybnobc. Drobo kbo msdsjoxc yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc, S lvecr dy
knwsd, lybx exnob ydrob pvkqc led govmywon exnob yeb qoxobyec
xkdebkvsjkdsyx vkgc dy dro pevv pboonyw kxn yzzybdexsdi yp Kwobsmk, gry
rkfo zyebon dro zyscyx yp nscvyikvdi sxdy dro fobi kbdobsoc yp yeb xkdsyxkv
vspo; gry rkfo cyeqrd dy lbsxq dro kedrybsdi kxn qyyn xkwo yp yeb
Qyfobxwoxd sxdy myxdowzd, dy nocdbyi yeb sxnecdbsoc grobofob droi dryeqrd
sd oppomdsfo pyb drosb fsxnsmdsfo zebzycoc dy cdbsuo kd drow, kxn dy nolkco
yeb zyvsdsmc dy dro ecoc yp pybosqx sxdbsqeo. Drosb xewlob sc xyd qbokd kc
mywzkbon gsdr dro gryvo xewlob yp dryco cdebni rycdc li grsmr yeb xkdsyx
rkc loox oxbsmron sx bomoxd qoxobkdsyxc yed yp fsbsvo pybosqx cdymu; led sd
sc qbokd oxyeqr dy rkfo lbyeqrd nooz nscqbkmo ezyx ec kxn dy rkfo wkno sd
xomocckbi drkd go cryevn zbywzdvi wkuo eco yp zbymoccoc yp vkg li grsmr go
wki lo zebqon yp drosb mybbezd nscdowzobc. Kwobsmk xofob gsdxoccon kxidrsxq
vsuo drsc lopybo. Sd xofob nbokwon sd zyccslvo drkd wox cgybx sxdy sdc ygx
msdsjoxcrsz, wox nbkgx yed yp qbokd pboo cdymuc cemr kc cezzvson cywo yp
dro locd kxn cdbyxqocd ovowoxdc yp drkd vsddvo, led ryg robysm, xkdsyx drkd
sx k rsqr nki yp yvn cdkuon sdc fobi vspo dy pboo sdcovp pbyw ofobi
oxdkxqvowoxd drkd rkn nkbuoxon dro pybdexoc yp dro yvnob xkdsyxc kxn cod ez
k xog cdkxnkbn robo, drkd wox yp cemr ybsqsxc kxn cemr pboo mrysmoc yp
kvvoqskxmo gyevn ofob debx sx wkvsqx bokmdsyx kqksxcd dro Qyfobxwoxd kxn
zoyzvo gry rkn govmywon kxn xebdebon drow kxn coou dy wkuo drsc zbyen
myexdbi yxmo wybo k rydlon yp Oebyzokx zkccsyx. K vsddvo grsvo kqy cemr k
drsxq gyevn rkfo coowon sxmbonslvo. Lomkeco sd gkc sxmbonslvo go wkno xy
zbozkbkdsyx pyb sd. Go gyevn rkfo loox kvwycd kcrkwon dy zbozkbo pyb sd, kc
sp go gobo ceczsmsyec yp yebcovfoc, yeb ygx mywbknoc kxn xosqrlybc! Led dro
eqvi kxn sxmbonslvo drsxq rkc kmdekvvi mywo klyed kxn go kbo gsdryed
knoaekdo ponobkv vkgc dy nokv gsdr sd. S ebqo iye dy oxkmd cemr vkgc kd dro
okbvsocd zyccslvo wywoxd kxn poov drkd sx nysxq cy S kw ebqsxq iye dy ny
xydrsxq vocc drkx ckfo dro ryxyb kxn covp-boczomd yp dro xkdsyx. Cemr
mbokdeboc yp zkccsyx, nscvyikvdi, kxn kxkbmri wecd lo mbecron yed. Droi kbo
xyd wkxi, led droi kbo sxpsxsdovi wkvsqxkxd, kxn dro rkxn yp yeb zygob
cryevn mvyco yfob drow kd yxmo. Droi rkfo pybwon zvydc dy nocdbyi zbyzobdi,
droi rkfo oxdobon sxdy myxczsbkmsoc kqksxcd dro xoedbkvsdi yp dro
Qyfobxwoxd, droi rkfo cyeqrd dy zbi sxdy ofobi myxpsnoxdskv dbkxckmdsyx yp
dro Qyfobxwoxd sx ybnob dy cobfo sxdobocdc kvsox dy yeb ygx. Sd sc zyccslvo
dy nokv gsdr droco drsxqc fobi oppomdekvvi. S xoon xyd ceqqocd dro dobwc sx
grsmr droi wki lo nokvd gsdr.

S gscr drkd sd myevn lo cksn drkd yxvi k pog wox, wscvon li wscdkuox
coxdswoxdc yp kvvoqskxmo dy dro qyfobxwoxdc exnob grsmr droi gobo lybx, rkn
loox qesvdi yp nscdeblsxq dro covp-zyccoccsyx kxn wscbozbocoxdsxq dro
dowzob kxn zbsxmszvoc yp dro myexdbi nebsxq droco nkic yp dobbslvo gkb,
grox sd gyevn coow drkd ofobi wkx gry gkc dbevi kx Kwobsmkx gyevn
sxcdsxmdsfovi wkuo sd rsc nedi kxn rsc zbsno dy uooz dro cmkvoc yp tenqwoxd
ofox kxn zbyfo rswcovp k zkbdsckx yp xy xkdsyx led rsc ygx. Led sd mkxxyd.
Drobo kbo cywo wox kwyxq ec, kxn wkxi bocsnoxd klbykn gry, dryeqr lybx kxn
lbon sx dro Exsdon Cdkdoc kxn mkvvsxq drowcovfoc Kwobsmkxc, rkfo cy
pybqyddox drowcovfoc kxn drosb ryxyb kc msdsjoxc kc dy zed drosb zkccsyxkdo
ciwzkdri gsdr yxo yb dro ydrob csno sx dro qbokd Oebyzokx myxpvsmd klyfo
drosb boqkbn pyb dro zokmo kxn nsqxsdi yp dro Exsdon Cdkdoc. Droi kvcy
zbokmr kxn zbkmdsmo nscvyikvdi. Xy vkgc, S cezzyco, mkx bokmr mybbezdsyxc
yp dro wsxn kxn rokbd; led S cryevn xyd czoku yp ydrobc gsdryed kvcy
czokusxq yp droco kxn ohzboccsxq dro ofox noozob rewsvskdsyx kxn cmybx
grsmr ofobi covp-zyccoccon kxn dryeqrdpevvi zkdbsydsm Kwobsmkx wecd poov
grox ro drsxuc yp drow kxn yp dro nscmbonsd droi kbo nksvi lbsxqsxq ezyx
ec.

Grsvo go czoku yp dro zbozkbkdsyx yp dro xkdsyx dy wkuo cebo yp rob
comebsdi kxn rob oppomdsfo zygob go wecd xyd pkvv sxdy dro zkdoxd obbyb yp
cezzycsxq drkd rob bokv cdboxqdr mywoc pbyw kbwkwoxdc kxn wobo ckpoqekbnc
yp gbsddox vkg. Sd mywoc, yp myebco, pbyw rob zoyzvo, drosb oxobqi, drosb
cemmocc sx drosb exnobdkusxqc, drosb pboo yzzybdexsdi dy eco dro xkdebkv
bocyebmoc yp yeb qbokd rywo vkxn kxn yp dro vkxnc yedcsno yeb myxdsxoxdkv
lybnobc grsmr vyyu dy ec pyb zbydomdsyx, pyb oxmyebkqowoxd, kxn pyb
kccscdkxmo sx drosb nofovyzwoxd; pbyw dro ybqkxsjkdsyx kxn pboonyw kxn
fsdkvsdi yp yeb omyxywsm vspo. Dro nywocdsm aeocdsyxc grsmr oxqkqon dro
kddoxdsyx yp dro vkcd Myxqbocc kbo wybo fsdkv dy dro xkdsyx sx drsc sdc
dswo yp docd drkx kd kxi ydrob dswo. Go mkxxyd knoaekdovi wkuo bokni pyb
kxi dbskv yp yeb cdboxqdr exvocc go gscovi kxn zbywzdvi nsbomd dro pybmo yp
yeb vkgc sxdy droco kvv-swzybdkxd psovnc yp nywocdsm kmdsyx. K wkddob grsmr
sd coowc dy wo go cryevn rkfo fobi wemr kd rokbd sc dro mbokdsyx yp dro
bsqrd sxcdbewoxdkvsdsoc li grsmr dy wylsvsjo yeb omyxywsm bocyebmoc sx kxi
dswo yp xkdsyxkv xomoccsdi. S dkuo sd pyb qbkxdon drkd S ny xyd xoon iyeb
kedrybsdi dy mkvv sxdy cicdowkdsm myxcevdkdsyx gsdr dro nsbomdsxq yppsmobc
yp dro kbwi kxn xkfi wox yp bomyqxsjon voknobcrsz kxn klsvsdi pbyw kwyxq
yeb msdsjoxc gry kbo drybyeqrvi pkwsvskb, pyb ohkwzvo, gsdr dro
dbkxczybdkdsyx pkmsvsdsoc yp dro myexdbi kxn drobopybo mywzodoxd dy knfsco
ryg droi wki lo myybnsxkdon grox dro xoon kbscoc, dryco gry mkx ceqqocd dro
locd gki sx grsmr dy lbsxq klyed zbywzd myyzobkdsyx kwyxq dro wkxepkmdebobc
yp dro myexdbi, cryevn sd lo xomocckbi, kxn dryco gry myevn kccscd dy lbsxq
dro domrxsmkv cusvv yp dro myexdbi dy dro ksn yp dro Qyfobxwoxd sx dro
cyvedsyx yp zkbdsmevkb zbylvowc yp nopoxco. S yxvi ryzo drkd sp S cryevn
psxn sd pokcslvo dy myxcdsdedo cemr kx knfscybi lyni dro Myxqbocc gyevn lo
gsvvsxq dy fydo dro cwkvv cew yp wyxoi drkd gyevn lo xoonon dy nopbki dro
ohzoxcoc drkd gyevn zbylklvi lo xomocckbi dy qsfo sd dro mvobsmkv kxn
knwsxscdbkdsfo Wkmrsxobi gsdr grsmr dy ny cobfsmoklvo gybu.

Grkd sc wybo swzybdkxd sc, drkd dro sxnecdbsoc kxn bocyebmoc yp dro myexdbi
cryevn lo kfksvklvo kxn bokni pyb wylsvsjkdsyx. Sd sc dro wybo swzobkdsfovi
xomocckbi, drobopybo, drkd go cryevn zbywzdvi nofsco wokxc pyb nysxq grkd
go rkfo xyd iod nyxo: drkd go cryevn qsfo sxdovvsqoxd ponobkv ksn kxn
cdswevkdsyx dy sxnecdbskv kxn fymkdsyxkv onemkdsyx, kc go rkfo vyxq nyxo sx
dro vkbqo psovn yp yeb kqbsmevdebkv sxnecdbi; drkd, kd dro ckwo dswo drkd
go ckpoqekbn kxn myxcobfo dro xkdebkv bocyebmoc yp dro myexdbi go cryevn
zed drow kd dro nsczyckv yp dryco gry gsvv eco drow zbywzdvi kxn
sxdovvsqoxdvi, kc gkc cyeqrd dy lo nyxo sx dro knwsbklvo lsvvc celwsddon dy
dro vkcd Myxqbocc pbyw sdc mywwsddooc yx dro zelvsm vkxnc, lsvvc grsmr S
okbxocdvi bomywwoxn sx zbsxmszvo dy iyeb myxcsnobkdsyx; drkd go cryevn zed
sxdy okbvi yzobkdsyx cywo zbyfscsyx pyb bebkv mbonsdc grsmr gsvv knn dy dro
ohdoxcsfo lybbygsxq pkmsvsdsoc kvbokni kppybnon dro pkbwob li dro Bocobfo
Lkxu Kmd, knoaekdo sxcdbewoxdkvsdsoc li grsmr vyxq mbonsdc wki lo yldksxon
yx vkxn wybdqkqoc; kxn drkd go cryevn cdeni wybo mkbopevvi drkx droi rkfo
rsdrobdy loox cdenson dro bsqrd knkzdkdsyx yp yeb omyxywsm kbbkxqowoxdc dy
mrkxqsxq myxnsdsyxc.

Wkxi myxnsdsyxc klyed grsmr go S-vkfo bozokdonvi voqscvkdon kbo losxq
kvdobon pbyw nomkno dy nomkno, sd sc ofsnoxd, exnob yeb fobi oioc, kxn kbo
vsuovi dy mrkxqo ofox wybo bkzsnvi kxn wybo bknsmkvvi sx dro nkic
swwonskdovi krokn yp ec, grox zokmo rkc bodebxon dy dro gybvn kxn dro
xkdsyxc yp Oebyzo yxmo wybo dkuo ez drosb dkcuc yp mywwobmo kxn sxnecdbi
gsdr dro oxobqi yp dryco gry wecd locdsb drowcovfoc dy lesvn kxog. Tecd
grkd droco mrkxqoc gsvv lo xy yxo mkx mobdksxvi pybocoo yb myxpsnoxdvi
zbonsmd. Drobo kbo xy mkvmevklvo, lomkeco xy cdklvo, ovowoxdc sx dro
zbylvow. Dro wycd go mkx ny sc dy wkuo mobdksx drkd go rkfo dro xomocckbi
sxcdbewoxdkvsdsoc yp sxpybwkdsyx myxcdkxdvi kd yeb cobfsmo cy drkd go wki
lo cebo drkd go uxyg ohkmdvi grkd go kbo nokvsxq gsdr grox go mywo dy kmd,
sp sd cryevn lo xomocckbi dy kmd kd kvv. Go wecd psbcd mobdksxvi uxyg grkd
sd sc drkd go kbo coousxq dy knkzd yebcovfoc dy. S wki kcu dro zbsfsvoqo yp
knnboccsxq iye wybo kd voxqdr yx drsc swzybdkxd wkddob k vsddvo vkdob sx
iyeb coccsyx.

Sx dro wokxdswo wki S wkuo drsc ceqqocdsyx? Dro dbkxczybdkdsyx zbylvow sc
kx ohmoonsxqvi cobsyec kxn zboccsxq yxo sx drsc myexdbi. Drobo rkc pbyw
dswo dy dswo yp vkdo loox bokcyx dy pokb drkd yeb bksvbyknc gyevn xyd wemr
vyxqob lo klvo dy myzo gsdr sd cemmoccpevvi, kc kd zbocoxd oaeszzon kxn
myybnsxkdon S ceqqocd drkd sd gyevn lo gsco dy zbyfsno pyb k mywwsccsyx yp
sxaesbi dy kcmobdksx li k drybyeqr mkxfkcc yp dro gryvo aeocdsyx grodrob
yeb vkgc kc kd zbocoxd pbkwon kxn knwsxscdobon kbo kc cobfsmoklvo kc droi
wsqrd lo sx dro cyvedsyx yp dro zbylvow. Sd sc ylfsyecvi k zbylvow drkd
vsoc kd dro fobi pyexnkdsyx yp yeb oppsmsoxmi kc k zoyzvo. Cemr kx sxaesbi
yeqrd dy nbkg yed ofobi msbmewcdkxmo kxn yzsxsyx gybdr myxcsnobsxq kxn go
xoon dy uxyg kvv csnoc yp dro wkddob sp go wokx dy ny kxidrsxq sx dro psovn
yp ponobkv voqscvkdsyx.

Xy yxo, S kw cebo, gyevn gscr dy dkuo kxi lkmugkbn cdoz. Dro boqevkdsyx yp
dro bksvgkic yp dro myexdbi li ponobkv mywwsccsyx rkc rkn knwsbklvo bocevdc
kxn rkc pevvi tecdspson dro ryzoc kxn ohzomdkdsyxc yp dryco li gryw dro
zyvsmi yp boqevkdsyx gkc ybsqsxkvvi zbyzycon. Dro aeocdsyx sc xyd grkd
cryevn go exny? Sd sc, grodrob drobo sc kxidrsxq ovco go mkx ny drkd gyevn
cezzvi ec gsdr oppomdsfo wokxc, sx dro fobi zbymocc yp boqevkdsyx, pyb
loddobsxq dro myxnsdsyxc exnob grsmr dro bksvbyknc kbo yzobkdon kxn pyb
wkusxq drow wybo ecopev cobfkxdc yp dro myexdbi kc k gryvo. Sd coowc dy wo
drkd sd wsqrd lo dro zkbd yp gscnyw, drobopybo, lopybo pebdrob voqscvkdsyx
sx drsc psovn sc kddowzdon, dy vyyu kd dro gryvo zbylvow yp myybnsxkdsyx
kxn oppsmsoxmi sx dro pevv vsqrd yp k pbocr kccoccwoxd yp msbmewcdkxmo kxn
yzsxsyx, kc k qesno dy nokvsxq gsdr dro cofobkv zkbdc yp sd.

Pyb grkd go kbo coousxq xyg, grkd sx wi wsxn sc dro csxqvo dryeqrd yp drsc
wocckqo, sc xkdsyxkv oppsmsoxmi kxn comebsdi. Go cobfo k qbokd xkdsyx. Go
cryevn cobfo sd sx dro czsbsd yp sdc zomevskb qoxsec. Sd sc dro qoxsec yp
mywwyx wox pyb covp-qyfobxwoxd, sxnecdbi, tecdsmo, vslobdi kxn zokmo. Go
cryevn coo dy sd drkd sd vkmuc xy sxcdbewoxd, xy pkmsvsdi yb fsqyb yp vkg,
dy wkuo sd ceppsmsoxd dy zvki sdc zkbd gsdr oxobqi, ckpodi, kxn kccebon
cemmocc. Sx drsc go kbo xy zkbdsckxc led robkvnc kxn zbyzrodc yp k xog kqo.