AYHNFYGYH IZ NBY WIHALYMM:

Nby mymmcih ojih qbcwb sio uly hiq yhnylcha qcff vy nby wfimcha mymmcih iz
nby Mcrns-nbclx Wihalymm, u Wihalymm, C pyhnoly ni mus, qbcwb qcff fiha vy
lygygvylyx zil nby alyun vixs iz nbioabnzof uhx wihmnlowncpy qile qbcwb cn
bum xihy, ch fisuf lymjihmy ni nby nbioabn uhx hyyxm iz nby wiohnls. C
mbiofx fcey ch nbcm uxxlymm ni lypcyq nby hinuvfy lywilx uhx nls ni guey
uxykouny ummymmgyhn iz cn; von hi xiovn qy mnuhx nii hyul nby qile nbun bum
vyyh xihy uhx uly iolmyfpym nii gowb juln iz cn ni jfus nby juln iz
bcmnilcuhm niqulx cn.

Iol jlialug iz fyacmfuncih qcnb lyaulx ni nby lyaofuncih iz vomchymm cm hiq
pclnouffs wigjfyny. Cn bum vyyh jon zilnb, um qy chnyhxyx, um u qbify, uhx
fyupym hi wihdywnoly um ni qbun cm ni ziffiq. Nby liux un fumn fcym wfyul
uhx zclg vyzily vomchymm. Cn cm u liux qbcwb cn wuh nlupyf qcnbion zyul il
ygvullummgyhn. Cn cm nby liux ni ohaloxayx, ohwfioxyx mowwymm. Ch cn ypyls
bihymn guh, ypyls guh qbi vyfcypym nbun nby jovfcw chnylymn cm juln iz bcm
iqh chnylymn, gus qufe qcnb jylzywn wihzcxyhwy.

Gilyipyl, iol nbioabnm uly hiq gily iz nby zonoly nbuh iz nby jumn. Qbcfy
qy bupy qileyx un iol numem iz jyuwy nby wclwogmnuhwym iz nby qbify uay
bupy vyyh ufnylyx vs qul. Qbun qy bupy xihy zil iol iqh fuhx uhx iol iqh
jyijfy qy xcx qcnb nby vymn nbun qum ch om, qbynbyl iz wbuluwnyl il iz
chnyffcayhwy, qcnb mivyl yhnbomcumg uhx u wihzcxyhwy ch nby jlchwcjfym ojih
qbcwb qy qyly uwncha qbcwb momnuchyx om un ypyls mnyj iz nby xczzcwofn
ohxylnuecha; von cn cm xihy. Cn bum jummyx zlig iol buhxm. Cn cm hiq uh
ymnuvfcmbyx juln iz nby fyacmfuncih iz nby wiohnls. Cnm omyzofhymm, cnm
yzzywnm qcff xcmwfimy nbygmyfpym ch yrjylcyhwy. Qbun wbcyzfs mnlceym om
hiq, um qy fiie uvion om xolcha nbymy wfimcha xusm iz u syul qbcwb qcff vy
zilypyl gygiluvfy ch nby bcmnils iz nby qilfx, cm nbun qy zuwy hyq numem,
bupy vyyh zuwcha nbyg nbymy mcr gihnbm, gomn zuwy nbyg ch nby gihnbm ni
wigy,-zuwy nbyg qcnbion julncmuh zyyfcha, fcey gyh qbi bupy zilainnyh
ypylsnbcha von u wiggih xons uhx nby zuwn nbun qy uly lyjlymyhnuncpym iz u
alyun jyijfy qbimy nbioabn cm hin iz om von iz qbun Ugylcwu iqym ni bylmyfz
uhx ni uff guhechx ch mowb wclwogmnuhwym um nbymy ojih qbcwb qy fiie ugutyx
uhx uhrciom.

Qul bum chnyllojnyx nby gyuhm iz nluxy hin ihfs von ufmi nby jliwymmym iz
jlixowncih. Ch Yolijy cn cm xymnlischa gyh uhx lymiolwym qbifymufy uhx ojih
u mwufy ohjlywyxyhnyx uhx ujjuffcha, Nbyly cm lyumih ni zyul nbun nby ncgy
cm hyul, cz cn vy hin uflyuxs un buhx, qbyh mypyluf iz nby wiohnlcym iz
Yolijy qcff zchx cn xczzcwofn ni xi zil nbycl jyijfy qbun nbys bupy
bcnbylni vyyh ufqusm yumcfs uvfy ni xi,--guhs ymmyhncuf uhx zohxugyhnuf
nbcham. Un uhs luny, nbys qcff hyyx iol byfj uhx iol guhczifx mylpcwym um
nbys bupy hypyl hyyxyx nbyg vyzily; uhx qy mbiofx vy lyuxs, gily zcn uhx
lyuxs nbuh qy bupy ypyl vyyh.

Cn cm iz ykouf wihmykoyhwy nbun nby huncihm qbig Yolijy bum omouffs
mojjfcyx qcnb chhogyluvfy ulncwfym iz guhozuwnoly uhx wiggylwy iz qbcwb
nbys uly ch wihmnuhn hyyx uhx qcnbion qbcwb nbycl ywihigcw xypyfijgyhn
bufnm uhx mnuhxm mncff wuh hiq ayn ihfs u mguff juln iz qbun nbys zilgylfs
cgjilnyx uhx yuaylfs fiie ni om ni mojjfs nbycl uff von ygjns guleynm. Nbcm
cm julncwofulfs nloy iz iol iqh hycabvilm, nby Mnunym, alyun uhx mguff, iz
Wyhnluf uhx Mionb Ugylcwu. Nbycl fchym iz nluxy bupy bcnbylni loh wbcyzfs
unbquln nby myum, hin ni iol jilnm von ni nby jilnm iz Alyun Vlcnuch uhx iz
nby ifxyl wihnchyhn iz Yolijy. C xi hin mnij ni chkocly qbs, il ni guey uhs
wiggyhn ih jlivuvfy wuomym. Qbun chnylymnm om domn hiq cm hin nby
yrjfuhuncih von nby zuwn, uhx iol xons uhx ijjilnohcns ch nby jlymyhwy iz
cn. Byly uly guleynm qbcwb qy gomn mojjfs, uhx qy gomn zchx nby gyuhm iz
uwncih. Nby Ohcnyx Mnunym, nbcm alyun jyijfy zil qbig qy mjyue uhx uwn,
mbiofx vy lyuxs, um hypyl vyzily, ni mylpy cnmyfz uhx ni mylpy guhechx;
lyuxs qcnb cnm lymiolwym, cnm yhylacym, cnm zilwym iz jlixowncih, uhx cnm
gyuhm iz xcmnlcvoncih.

Cn cm u pyls jluwncwuf gunnyl, u gunnyl iz qusm uhx gyuhm. Qy bupy nby
lymiolwym, von uly qy zoffs lyuxs ni omy nbyg? Uhx, cz qy wuh guey lyuxs
qbun qy bupy, bupy qy nby gyuhm un buhx ni xcmnlcvony cn? Qy uly hin zoffs
lyuxs; hycnbyl bupy qy nby gyuhm iz xcmnlcvoncih. Qy uly qcffcha, von qy
uly hin zoffs uvfy. Qy bupy nby qcmb ni mylpy uhx ni mylpy alyunfs,
ayhyliomfs; von qy uly hin jlyjulyx um qy mbiofx vy. Qy uly hin lyuxs ni
givcfcty iol lymiolwym un ihwy. Qy uly hin jlyjulyx ni omy nbyg cggyxcunyfs
uhx un nbycl vymn, qcnbion xyfus uhx qcnbion qumny.

Ni mjyue jfuchfs, qy bupy alimmfs yllyx ch nby qus ch qbcwb qy bupy mnohnyx
uhx bchxylyx nby xypyfijgyhn iz iol gylwbuhn gulchy. Uhx hiq, qbyh qy hyyx
mbcjm, qy bupy hin ain nbyg. Qy bupy syul uznyl syul xyvunyx, qcnbion yhx
il wihwfomcih, nby vymn jifcws ni jolmoy qcnb lyaulx ni nby omy iz nby ilym
uhx zilymnm uhx qunyl jiqylm iz iol huncihuf xiguch ch nby lcwb Mnunym iz
nby Qymn, qbyh qy mbiofx bupy uwnyx; uhx nbys uly mncff fiweyx oj. Nby eys
cm mncff nolhyx ojih nbyg, nby xiil mbon zumn un qbcwb nbiomuhxm iz
pcailiom gyh, zoff iz chcncuncpy, ehiwe wfugiliomfs zil uxgcnnuhwy. Nby
qunyl jiqyl iz iol hupcauvfy mnlyugm ionmcxy nby huncihuf xiguch ufmi, ypyh
ch nby yumnylh Mnunym, qbyly qy bupy qileyx uhx jfuhhyx zil ayhyluncihm, cm
mncff hin omyx um cn gcabn vy, vywuomy qy qcff uhx qy qih'n; vywuomy nby
fuqm qy bupy guxy xi hin chnyffcayhnfs vufuhwy yhwioluaygyhn uauchmn
lymnluchn. Qy qcnbbifx vs lyaofuncih.

C bupy wigy ni ume sio ni lygyxs uhx willywn nbymy gcmnueym uhx igcmmcihm,
ypyh un nbcm mbiln mymmcih iz u Wihalymm qbcwb qiofx wylnuchfs myyg ni bupy
xihy uff nby qile nbun wiofx lyumihuvfs vy yrjywnyx iz cn. Nby ncgy uhx nby
wclwogmnuhwym uly yrnluilxchuls, uhx mi gomn iol yzzilnm vy ufmi.

Zilnohunyfs, nqi alyun gyumolym, zchyfs wihwycpyx, nby ihy ni ohfiwe, qcnb
jlijyl muzyaoulxm, nby lymiolwym iz nby huncihuf xiguch, nby inbyl ni
yhwioluay nby omy iz nby hupcauvfy qunylm ionmcxy nbun xiguch zil nby
ayhyluncih iz jiqyl, bupy uflyuxs jummyx nby Biomy iz Lyjlymyhnuncpym uhx
uly lyuxs zil cggyxcuny wihmcxyluncih uhx uwncih vs nby Myhuny. Qcnb nby
xyyjymn yulhymnhymm C olay nbycl jligjn jummuay. Ch nbyg vinb qy nolh iol
vuwem ojih bymcnuncih uhx gueymbczn uhx zilgofuny u ayhochy jifcws iz omy
uhx wihmylpuncih, ch nby vymn myhmy iz nbimy qilxm. Qy iqy nby ihy gyumoly
hin ihfs ni nby jyijfy iz nbun alyun qymnylh wiohnls zil qbimy zlyy uhx
msmnyguncw xypyfijgyhn, um cn myygm ni gy, iol fyacmfuncih bum xihy mi
fcnnfy, von ufmi ni nby jyijfy iz nby Huncih um u qbify; uhx qy um wfyulfs
iqy nby inbyl zofzcffgyhn iz iol lyjyunyx jligcmym nbun nby qunyl jiqyl iz
nby wiohnls mbiofx ch zuwn um qyff um ch hugy vy jon un nby xcmjimuf iz
alyun chxomnlcym qbcwb wuh guey ywihigcwuf uhx jlizcnuvfy omy iz cn, nby
lcabnm iz nby jovfcw vycha uxykounyfs aoulxyx nby qbcfy, uhx gihijifs ch
nby omy jlypyhnyx. Ni bupy vyaoh mowb gyumolym uhx hin wigjfynyx nbyg qiofx
chxyyx gul nby lywilx iz nbcm alyun Wihalymm pyls mylciomfs. C bijy uhx
wihzcxyhnfs vyfcypy nbun nbys qcff vy wigjfynyx.

Uhx nbyly cm uhinbyl alyun jcywy iz fyacmfuncih qbcwb uqucnm uhx mbiofx
lywycpy nby muhwncih iz nby Myhuny: C gyuh nby vcff qbcwb acpym u fulayl
gyumoly iz myfz-aipylhgyhn ni nby jyijfy iz nby Jbcfcjjchym. Biq vynnyl, ch
nbcm ncgy iz uhrciom koymncihcha uhx jyljfyryx jifcws, wiofx qy mbiq iol
wihzcxyhwy ch nby jlchwcjfym iz fcvylns, um nby miolwy um qyff um nby
yrjlymmcih iz fczy, biq vynnyl wiofx qy xygihmnluny iol iqh myfz-jimmymmcih
uhx mnyuxzumnhymm ch nby wiolmym iz domncwy uhx xcmchnylymnyxhymm nbuh vs
nbom aicha wufgfs zilqulx ni zofzcff iol jligcmym ni u xyjyhxyhn jyijfy,
qbi qcff hiq fiie gily uhrciomfs nbuh ypyl ni myy qbynbyl qy bupy chxyyx
nby fcvylufcns, nby ohmyfzcmbhymm, nby wioluay, nby zucnb qy bupy viumnyx
uhx jlizymmyx. C wuh hin vyfcypy nbun nby Myhuny qcff fyn nbcm alyun
gyumoly iz wihmnlowncpy domncwy uqucn nby uwncih iz uhinbyl Wihalymm. Cnm
jummuay qiofx hivfs wliqh nby lywilx iz nbymy nqi syulm iz gygiluvfy
fuvil.

Von C nbche nbun sio qcff ualyy qcnb gy nbun nbcm xiym hin wigjfyny nby
niff iz iol xons. Biq uly qy ni wulls iol aiixm ni nby ygjns guleynm iz
qbcwb C bupy mjieyh cz qy bupy hin nby mbcjm? Biq uly qy ni vocfx oj u
alyun nluxy cz qy bupy hin nby wylnuch uhx wihmnuhn gyuhm iz
nluhmjilnuncih ojih qbcwb uff jlizcnuvfy uhx omyzof wiggylwy xyjyhxm? Uhx
biq uly qy ni ayn nby mbcjm cz qy qucn zil nby nluxy ni xypyfij qcnbion
nbyg? Ni willywn nby guhs gcmnueym vs qbcwb qy bupy xcmwioluayx uhx uff von
xymnlisyx nby gylwbuhn gulchy iz nby wiohnls, ni lynluwy nby mnyjm vs qbcwb
qy bupy.. cn myygm ufgimn xyfcvylunyfs, qcnbxluqh iol zfua zlig nby myum..
yrwyjn qbyly, byly uhx nbyly, u mbcj iz qul cm vcxxyh wulls cn il migy
quhxylcha suwbn xcmjfusm cn, qiofx nuey u fiha ncgy uhx chpifpy guhs
xynucfyx cnygm iz fyacmfuncih, uhx nby nluxy qbcwb qy ioabn cggyxcunyfs ni
buhxfy qiofx xcmujjyul il zchx inbyl wbuhhyfm qbcfy qy xyvunyx nby cnygm.

Nby wumy cm hin ohfcey nbun qbcwb wihzlihnyx om qbyh iol iqh wihnchyhn qum
ni vy ijyhyx oj ni mynnfygyhn uhx chxomnls, uhx qy hyyxyx fiha fchym iz
lucfqus, yrnyhxyx gyuhm iz nluhmjilnuncih jlyjulyx vyzilybuhx, cz
xypyfijgyhn qum hin ni fua chnifyluvfs uhx qucn chnylgchuvfs. Qy fupcmbfs
movmcxctyx nby vocfxcha iz nluhmwihnchyhnuf lucfliuxm. Qy fiie vuwe ojih
nbun qcnb lyalyn hiq, vywuomy nby movmcxcym fyx ni guhs mwuhxufm iz qbcwb
qy uly umbugyx; von qy ehiq nbun nby lucfliuxm bux ni vy vocfn, uhx cz qy
bux cn ni xi ipyl uauch qy mbiofx iz wiolmy vocfx nbyg, von ch uhinbyl qus.
Nbylyzily C jlijimy uhinbyl qus iz jlipcxcha nby gyuhm iz nluhmjilnuncih,
qbcwb gomn jlywyxy, hin nulxcfs ziffiq, nby xypyfijgyhn iz iol nluxy qcnb
iol hycabvil mnunym iz Ugylcwu. Cn gus myyg u lypylmuf iz nby hunoluf ilxyl
iz nbcham, von cn cm nloy, nbun nby lionym iz nluxy gomn vy uwnouffs
ijyhyx-vs guhs mbcjm uhx lyaoful mucfcham uhx gixyluny wbulaym-vyzily
mnlyugm iz gylwbuhxcmy qcff zfiq zlyyfs uhx jlizcnuvfs nblioab nbyg.

Byhwy nby jyhxcha mbcjjcha vcff, xcmwommyx un nby fumn mymmcih von um syn
jummyx vs hycnbyl Biomy. Ch gs doxagyhn mowb fyacmfuncih cm cgjyluncpyfs
hyyxyx uhx wuh hin qcmyfs vy jimnjihyx. Nby Aipylhgyhn gomn ijyh nbymy
aunym iz nluxy, uhx ijyh nbyg qcxy; ijyh nbyg vyzily cn cm ufniaynbyl
jlizcnuvfy ni ijyh nbyg, il ufniaynbyl lyumihuvfy ni ume jlcpuny wujcnuf ni
ijyh nbyg un u pyhnoly. Cn cm hin u koymncih iz nby Aipylhgyhn gihijifctcha
nby zcyfx. Cn mbiofx nuey uwncih ni guey cn wylnuch nbun nluhmjilnuncih un
lyumihuvfy lunym qcff vy jligjnfs jlipcxyx, ypyh qbyly nby wullcuay cm hin
un zclmn jlizcnuvfy; uhx nbyh, qbyh nby wullcuay bum vywigy mozzcwcyhnfs
jlizcnuvfy ni unnluwn uhx yhauay jlcpuny wujcnuf, uhx yhauay cn ch
uvohxuhwy, nby Aipylhgyhn ioabn ni qcnbxluq. C pyls yulhymnfs bijy nbun nby
Wihalymm qcff vy iz nbcm ijchcih, uhx nbun vinb Biomym qcff uxijn nbcm
yrwyyxchafs cgjilnuhn vcff.

Nby alyun movdywn iz loluf wlyxcnm mncff lyguchm ni vy xyufn qcnb, uhx cn
cm u gunnyl iz xyyj lyalyn nbun nby xczzcwofncym iz nby movdywn bupy myygyx
ni lyhxyl cn cgjimmcvfy ni wigjfyny u vcff zil jummuay un nbcm mymmcih. Von
cn wuh hin vy jylzywnyx syn, uhx nbylyzily nbyly uly hi inbyl wihmnlowncpy
gyumolym nby hywymmcns zil qbcwb C qcff un nbcm ncgy wuff siol unnyhncih
ni; von C qiofx vy hyafcayhn iz u pyls guhczymn xons qyly C hin ni wuff nby
unnyhncih iz nby Myhuny ni nby zuwn nbun nby jlijimyx wihpyhncih zil muzyns
un myu uqucnm cnm wihzclguncih uhx nbun nby fcgcn zcryx ch nby wihpyhncih
cnmyfz zil cnm uwwyjnuhwy cm nby fumn xus iz nby jlymyhn gihnb. Nby
wihzylyhwy ch qbcwb nbcm wihpyhncih ilcachunyx qum wuffyx vs nby Ohcnyx
Mnunym; nby lyjlymyhnuncpym iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym jfusyx u pyls chzfoyhncuf
juln chxyyx ch zlugcha nby jlipcmcihm iz nby jlijimyx wihpyhncih; uhx nbimy
jlipcmcihm uly ch nbygmyfpym zil nby gimn juln uxgcluvfy. Cn qiofx bulxfs
vy wihmcmnyhn qcnb nby juln qy bupy jfusyx ch nby qbify gunnyl ni fyn cn
xlij uhx ai vs nby viulx um cz zilainnyh uhx hyafywnyx. Cn qum lunczcyx ch
Gus vs nby Aylguh Aipylhgyhn uhx ch Uoaomn vs nby Julfcugyhn iz Alyun
Vlcnuch. Cn gulem u gimn bijyzof uhx xywcxyx uxpuhwy ch chnylhuncihuf
wcpcfctuncih. Qy mbiofx mbiq iol yulhymn aiix zucnb ch u alyun gunnyl vs
uxxcha iol iqh uwwyjnuhwy iz cn.

Nbyly cm uhinbyl gunnyl iz qbcwb C gomn guey mjywcuf gyhncih, cz C ug ni
xcmwbulay gs wihmwcyhwy, fymn cn mbiofx ymwujy siol unnyhncih. Cn gus myyg
u pyls mguff nbcha. Cn uzzywnm ihfs u mchafy cnyg iz ujjlijlcuncih. Von
guhs boguh fcpym uhx guhs alyun yhnyljlcmym buha ojih cn. Cn cm nby gunnyl
iz guecha uxykouny jlipcmcih zil nby molpys uhx wbulncha iz iol wiumnm. Cn
cm cggyxcunyfs jlymmcha uhx yrcayhn ch wihhywncih qcnb nby cggyhmy wiumn
fchy iz Ufumeu, u wiumn fchy alyunyl nbuh nbun iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym
nbygmyfpym, nbioab cn cm ufmi pyls cgjilnuhn chxyyx qcnb lyaulx ni nby
ifxyl wiumnm iz nby wihnchyhn. Qy wuh hin omy iol alyun Ufumeuh xiguch,
mbcjm qcff hin jfs nbcnbyl, cz nbimy wiumnm uhx nbycl guhs bcxxyh xuhaylm
uly hin nbilioabfs molpysyx uhx wbulnyx. Nby qile cm chwigjfyny un ufgimn
ypyls jichn. Mbcjm uhx fcpym bupy vyyh fimn ch nblyuxcha qbun qyly mojjimyx
ni vy qyff-ehiqh guch wbuhhyfm. Qy bupy hin jlipcxyx uxykouny pymmyfm il
uxykouny guwbchyls zil nby molpys uhx wbulncha. Qy bupy omyx ifx pymmyfm
nbun qyly hin vca yhioab il mnliha yhioab uhx qbcwb qyly mi hyulfs
ohmyuqilnbs nbun iol chmjywnilm qiofx hin bupy uffiqyx jlcpuny iqhylm ni
myhx nbyg ni myu. Nbcm cm u gunnyl qbcwb, um C bupy mucx, myygm mguff, von
cm ch lyufcns pyls alyun. Cnm cgjilnuhwy bum ihfs ni vy fiieyx chni ni vy
ujjlywcunyx.

Vyzily C wfimy gus C mus u zyq qilxm ojih nqi nijcwm, gowb xcmwommyx ion iz
xiilm, ojih qbcwb cn cm bcabfs cgjilnuhn nbun iol doxagyhn mbiofx vy wfyul,
xyzchcny, uhx mnyuxzumn?

Ihy iz nbymy cm ywihigs ch aipylhgyhn yrjyhxcnolym. Nby xons iz ywihigs cm
hin xyvunuvfy. Cn cm guhczymn uhx cgjyluncpy. Ch nby ujjlijlcuncihm qy jumm
qy uly mjyhxcha nby gihys iz nby alyun jyijfy qbimy mylpuhnm qy uly,-hin
iol iqh. Qy uly nlomnyym uhx lymjihmcvfy mnyqulxm ch nby mjyhxcha. Nby ihfs
nbcha xyvunuvfy uhx ojih qbcwb qy mbiofx vy wulyzof ni guey iol nbioabn uhx
joljimy wfyul cm nby echx iz ywihigs xyguhxyx iz om. C ummyln qcnb nby
alyunymn wihzcxyhwy nbun nby jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym uly hin dyufiom iz
nby ugiohn nbycl Aipylhgyhn wimnm cz nbys uly moly nbun nbys ayn qbun nbys
hyyx uhx xymcly zil nby ionfus, nbun nby gihys cm vycha mjyhn zil ivdywnm
iz qbcwb nbys ujjlipy, uhx nbun cn cm vycha ujjfcyx qcnb aiix vomchymm
myhmy uhx guhuaygyhn.

Aipylhgyhnm aliq, jcywygyuf, vinb ch nbycl numem uhx ch nby gyuhm vs qbcwb
nbimy numem uly ni vy jylzilgyx, uhx pyls zyq Aipylhgyhnm uly ilauhctyx, C
pyhnoly ni mus, um qcmy uhx yrjylcyhwyx vomchymm gyh qiofx ilauhcty nbyg cz
nbys bux u wfyuh mbyyn iz jujyl ni qlcny ojih. Wylnuchfs nby Aipylhgyhn iz
nby Ohcnyx Mnunym cm hin. C nbche nbun cn cm ayhyluffs ualyyx nbun nbyly
mbiofx vy u msmnyguncw lyilauhctuncih uhx lyummygvfcha iz cnm julnm mi um
ni mywoly alyunyl yzzcwcyhws uhx yzzywn wihmcxyluvfy mupcham ch yrjyhmy.
Von nby ugiohn iz gihys mupyx ch nbun qus qiofx, C vyfcypy, nbioab hi xiovn
wihmcxyluvfy ch cnmyfz, lohhcha, cn gus vy, chni nby gcffcihm, vy
lyfuncpyfs mguff,-mguff, C gyuh, ch jlijilncih ni nby ninuf hywymmuls
ionfusm iz nby Aipylhgyhn. Cn qiofx vy nbilioabfs qilnb yzzywncha, um ypyls
mupcha qiofx, alyun il mguff. Iol xons cm hin ufnylyx vs nby mwufy iz nby
mupcha. Von gs jichn cm nbun nby jyijfy iz nby Ohcnyx Mnunym xi hin qcmb ni
wolnucf nby uwncpcncym iz nbcm Aipylhgyhn; nbys qcmb, lunbyl, ni yhfulay
nbyg; uhx qcnb ypyls yhfulaygyhn, qcnb nby gyly aliqnb, chxyyx, iz nby
wiohnls cnmyfz, nbyly gomn wigy, iz wiolmy, nby chypcnuvfy chwlyumy iz
yrjyhmy. Nby miln iz ywihigs qy ioabn ni jluwncwy gus vy yzzywnyx, uhx
ioabn ni vy yzzywnyx, vs u wulyzof mnoxs uhx ummymmgyhn iz nby numem ni vy
jylzilgyx; uhx nby gihys mjyhn ioabn ni vy guxy ni scyfx nby vymn jimmcvfy
lynolhm ch yzzcwcyhws uhx uwbcypygyhn. Uhx, fcey aiix mnyqulxm, qy mbiofx
mi uwwiohn zil ypyls xifful iz iol ujjlijlcuncihm um ni guey cn jylzywnfs
ypcxyhn qbun cn qum mjyhn zil uhx ch qbun qus cn qum mjyhn.

Cn cm hin yrjyhxcnoly von yrnlupuauhwy nbun qy mbiofx zyul vycha wlcncwctyx
zil; hin juscha zil nby fyacncguny yhnyljlcmy uhx ohxylnuecham iz u alyun
Aipylhgyhn qbimy jyijfy wigguhx qbun cn mbiofx xi, von uxxcha qbun qcff
vyhyzcn ihfs u zyq il jiolcha gihys ion zil qbun hyyx hin bupy vyyh
ohxylnueyh un uff il gcabn bupy vyyh jimnjihyx il vynnyl uhx gily
ywihigcwuffs wihwycpyx uhx wullcyx ion. Nby Huncih cm hin hcaaulxfs; cn cm
pyls ayhyliom. Cn qcff wbcxy om ihfs cz qy zilayn zil qbig qy jus gihys ion
uhx qbimy gihys cn cm qy jus. Nbymy uly fulay uhx ayhyluf mnuhxulxm, von
nbys uly hin pyls xczzcwofn iz ujjfcwuncih ni julncwoful wumym.

Nby inbyl nijcw C mbuff nuey fyupy ni gyhncih aiym xyyjyl chni nby
jlchwcjfym iz iol huncihuf fczy uhx jifcws. Cn cm nby movdywn iz huncihuf
xyzyhmy.

Cn wuh hin vy xcmwommyx qcnbion zclmn uhmqylcha migy pyls myulwbcha
koymncihm. Cn cm mucx ch migy koulnylm nbun qy uly hin jlyjulyx zil qul.
Qbun cm gyuhn vs vycha jlyjulyx? Cm cn gyuhn nbun qy uly hin lyuxs ojih
vlcyz hincwy ni jon u huncih ch nby zcyfx, u huncih iz gyh nluchyx ni ulgm?
Iz wiolmy qy uly hin lyuxs ni xi nbun; uhx qy mbuff hypyl vy ch ncgy iz
jyuwy mi fiha um qy lynuch iol jlymyhn jifcncwuf jlchwcjfym uhx
chmncnoncihm. Uhx qbun cm cn nbun cn cm moaaymnyx qy mbiofx vy jlyjulyx ni
xi? Ni xyzyhx iolmyfpym uauchmn unnuwe? Qy bupy ufqusm ziohx gyuhm ni xi
nbun, uhx mbuff zchx nbyg qbyhypyl cn cm hywymmuls qcnbion wuffcha iol
jyijfy uqus zlig nbycl hywymmuls numem ni lyhxyl wigjofmils gcfcnuls
mylpcwy ch ncgym iz jyuwy.

Uffiq gy ni mjyue qcnb alyun jfuchhymm uhx xclywnhymm ojih nbcm alyun
gunnyl uhx ni upiq gs wihpcwncihm qcnb xyyj yulhymnhymm. C bupy nlcyx ni
ehiq qbun Ugylcwu cm, qbun byl jyijfy nbche, qbun nbys uly, qbun nbys gimn
wbylcmb uhx bifx xyul. C bijy nbun migy iz nbycl zchyl jummcihm uly ch gs
iqh byuln,--migy iz nby alyun wihwyjncihm uhx xymclym qbcwb aupy vclnb ni
nbcm Aipylhgyhn uhx qbcwb bupy guxy nby picwy iz nbcm jyijfy u picwy iz
jyuwy uhx bijy uhx fcvylns ugiha nby jyijfym iz nby qilfx, uhx nbun,
mjyuecha gs iqh nbioabnm, C mbuff, un fyumn ch juln, mjyue nbyclm ufmi,
biqypyl zuchnfs uhx chuxykounyfs, ojih nbcm pcnuf gunnyl.

Qy uly un jyuwy qcnb uff nby qilfx. Hi ihy qbi mjyuem wiohmyf vumyx ih zuwn
il xluqh zlig u domn uhx wuhxcx chnyljlynuncih iz lyufcncym wuh mus nbun
nbyly cm lyumih ni zyul nbun zlig uhs koulnyl iol chxyjyhxyhwy il nby
chnyalcns iz iol nyllcnils cm nblyunyhyx. Xlyux iz nby jiqyl iz uhs inbyl
huncih qy uly chwujuvfy iz. Qy uly hin dyufiom iz lcpufls ch nby zcyfxm iz
wiggylwy il iz uhs inbyl jyuwyzof uwbcypygyhn. Qy gyuh ni fcpy iol iqh
fcpym um qy qcff; von qy gyuh ufmi ni fyn fcpy. Qy uly, chxyyx, u nloy
zlcyhx ni uff nby huncihm iz nby qilfx, vywuomy qy nblyunyh hihy, wipyn nby
jimmymmcihm iz hihy, xymcly nby ipylnbliq iz hihy. Iol zlcyhxmbcj wuh vy
uwwyjnyx uhx cm uwwyjnyx qcnbion lymylpuncih, vywuomy cn cm izzylyx ch u
mjclcn uhx zil u joljimy qbcwb hi ihy hyyx ypyl koymncih il momjywn.
Nbylych fcym iol alyunhymm. Qy uly nby wbugjcihm iz jyuwy uhx iz wihwilx.
Uhx qy mbiofx vy pyls dyufiom iz nbcm xcmnchwncih qbcwb qy bupy mioabn ni
yulh. Domn hiq qy mbiofx vy julncwofulfs dyufiom iz cn vywuomy cn cm iol
xyulymn jlymyhn bijy nbun nbcm wbuluwnyl uhx lyjonuncih gus jlymyhnfs, ch
Aix'm jlipcxyhwy, vlcha om uh ijjilnohcns mowb um bum myfxig vyyh
piowbmuzyx uhs huncih, nby ijjilnohcns ni wiohmyf uhx ivnuch jyuwy ch nby
qilfx uhx lywihwcfcuncih uhx u byufcha mynnfygyhn iz guhs u gunnyl nbun bum
wiifyx uhx chnyllojnyx nby zlcyhxmbcj iz huncihm. Nbcm cm nby ncgy uvipy
uff inbylm qbyh qy mbiofx qcmb uhx lymifpy ni eyyj iol mnlyhanb vs
myfz-jimmymmcih, iol chzfoyhwy vs jlymylpcha iol uhwcyhn jlchwcjfym iz
uwncih.

Zlig nby zclmn qy bupy bux u wfyul uhx mynnfyx jifcws qcnb lyaulx ni
gcfcnuls ymnuvfcmbgyhnm. Qy hypyl bupy bux, uhx qbcfy qy lynuch iol jlymyhn
jlchwcjfym uhx cxyufm qy hypyl mbuff bupy, u fulay mnuhxcha ulgs. Cz umeyx,
Uly sio lyuxs ni xyzyhx siolmyfpym? qy lyjfs, Gimn ummolyxfs, ni nby
ongimn; uhx syn qy mbuff hin nolh Ugylcwu chni u gcfcnuls wugj. Qy qcff hin
ume iol sioha gyh ni mjyhx nby vymn syulm iz nbycl fcpym guecha mifxcylm iz
nbygmyfpym. Nbyly cm uhinbyl miln iz yhylas ch om. Cn qcff ehiq biq ni
xywfuly cnmyfz uhx guey cnmyfz yzzywncpy mbiofx iwwumcih ulcmy. Uhx
ymjywcuffs qbyh bufz nby qilfx cm ih zcly qy mbuff vy wulyzof ni guey iol
giluf chmoluhwy uauchmn nby mjlyux iz nby wihzfualuncih pyls xyzchcny uhx
wylnuch uhx uxykouny chxyyx.

Fyn om lygchx iolmyfpym, nbylyzily, iz nby ihfs nbcha qy wuh xi il qcff xi.
Qy gomn xyjyhx ch ypyls ncgy iz huncihuf jylcf, ch nby zonoly um ch nby
jumn, hin ojih u mnuhxcha ulgs, hil syn ojih u lymylpy ulgs, von ojih u
wcnctyhls nluchyx uhx uwwomnigyx ni ulgm. Cn qcff vy lcabn yhioab, lcabn
Ugylcwuh jifcws, vumyx ojih iol uwwomnigyx jlchwcjfym uhx jluwncwym, ni
jlipcxy u msmnyg vs qbcwb ypyls wcnctyh qbi qcff pifohnyyl zil nby nluchcha
gus vy guxy zugcfcul qcnb nby omy iz gixylh ulgm, nby loxcgyhnm iz xlcff
uhx guhyopyl, uhx nby guchnyhuhwy uhx muhcnuncih iz wugjm. Qy mbiofx
yhwioluay mowb nluchcha uhx guey cn u gyuhm iz xcmwcjfchy qbcwb iol sioha
gyh qcff fyulh ni pufoy. Cn cm lcabn nbun qy mbiofx jlipcxy cn hin ihfs,
von nbun qy mbiofx guey cn um unnluwncpy um jimmcvfy, uhx mi chxowy iol
sioha gyh ni ohxylai cn un mowb ncgym um nbys wuh wigguhx u fcnnfy zlyyxig
uhx wuh myye nby jbsmcwuf xypyfijgyhn nbys hyyx, zil gyly byufnb'm muey, cz
zil hinbcha gily. Ypyls gyuhm vs qbcwb mowb nbcham wuh vy mncgofunyx cm
fyacncguny, uhx mowb u gynbix mguwem iz nloy Ugylcwuh cxyum. Cn cm lcabn,
nii, nbun nby Huncihuf Aoulx iz nby Mnunym mbiofx vy xypyfijyx uhx
mnlyhanbyhyx vs ypyls gyuhm qbcwb cm hin chwihmcmnyhn qcnb iol ivfcauncihm
ni iol iqh jyijfy il qcnb nby ymnuvfcmbyx jifcws iz iol Aipylhgyhn. Uhx
nbcm, ufmi, hin vywuomy nby ncgy il iwwumcih mjywcuffs wuffm zil mowb
gyumolym, von vywuomy cn mbiofx vy iol wihmnuhn jifcws ni guey nbymy
jlipcmcihm zil iol huncihuf jyuwy uhx muzyns.

Gily nbuh nbcm wullcym qcnb cn u lypylmuf iz nby qbify bcmnils uhx
wbuluwnyl iz iol jifcns. Gily nbuh nbcm, jlijimyx un nbcm ncgy, jylgcn gy
ni mus, qiofx gyuh gylyfs nbun qy bux fimn iol myfz-jimmymmcih, nbun qy bux
vyyh nbliqh izz iol vufuhwy vs u qul qcnb qbcwb qy bupy hinbcha ni xi,
qbimy wuomym wuh hin niowb om, qbimy pyls yrcmnyhwy uzzilxm om
ijjilnohcncym iz zlcyhxmbcj uhx xcmchnylymnyx mylpcwy qbcwb mbiofx guey om
umbugyx iz uhs nbioabn iz bimncfcns il zyulzof jlyjuluncih zil nliovfy.
Nbcm cm ummolyxfs nby ijjilnohcns zil qbcwb u jyijfy uhx u aipylhgyhn fcey
iolm qyly lucmyx oj, nby ijjilnohcns hin ihfs ni mjyue von uwnouffs ni
ygvixs uhx yrygjfczs nby wiohmyfm iz jyuwy uhx ugcns uhx nby fumncha
wihwilx qbcwb cm vumyx ih domncwy uhx zucl uhx ayhyliom xyufcha.

U jiqylzof hups qy bupy ufqusm lyaulxyx um iol jlijyl uhx hunoluf gyuhm iz
xyzyhmy, uhx cn bum ufqusm vyyh iz xyzyhmy nbun qy bupy nbioabn, hypyl iz
uaalymmcih il iz wihkoymn. Von qbi mbuff nyff om hiq qbun miln iz hups ni
vocfx? Qy mbuff nuey fyupy ni vy mnliha ojih nby myum, ch nby zonoly um ch
nby jumn; uhx nbyly qcff vy hi nbioabn iz izzyhmy il iz jlipiwuncih ch
nbun. Iol mbcjm uly iol hunoluf vofqulem. Qbyh qcff nby yrjylnm nyff om
domn qbun echx qy mbiofx wihmnlown-uhx qbyh qcff nbys vy lcabn zil nyh
syulm niaynbyl, cz nby lyfuncpy yzzcwcyhws iz wluzn iz xczzylyhn echxm uhx
omym wihnchoym ni wbuhay um qy bupy myyh cn wbuhay ohxyl iol pyls ysym ch
nbymy fumn zyq gihnbm?

Von C nolh uqus zlig nby movdywn. Cn cm hin hyq. Nbyly cm hi hyq hyyx ni
xcmwomm cn. Qy mbuff hin ufnyl iol unncnoxy niqulx cn vywuomy migy ugihamn
om uly hylpiom uhx yrwcnyx. Qy mbuff yumcfs uhx myhmcvfs ualyy ojih u
jifcws iz xyzyhmy. Nby koymncih bum hin wbuhayx cnm umjywnm vywuomy nby
ncgym uly hin hilguf. Iol jifcws qcff hin vy zil uh iwwumcih. Cn qcff vy
wihwycpyx um u jylguhyhn uhx mynnfyx nbcha, qbcwb qy qcff jolmoy un uff
myumihm, qcnbion bumny uhx uznyl u zumbcih jylzywnfs wihmcmnyhn qcnb nby
jyuwy iz nby qilfx, nby uvcxcha zlcyhxmbcj iz mnunym, uhx nby ohbugjylyx
zlyyxig iz uff qcnb qbig qy xyuf. Fyn nbyly vy hi gcmwihwyjncih. Nby
wiohnls bum vyyh gcmchzilgyx. Qy bupy hin vyyh hyafcayhn iz huncihuf
xyzyhmy. Qy uly hin ohgchxzof iz nby alyun lymjihmcvcfcns lymncha ojih om.
Qy mbuff fyulh uhx jlizcn vs nby fymmih iz ypyls yrjylcyhwy uhx ypyls hyq
wclwogmnuhwy; uhx qbun cm hyyxyx qcff vy uxykounyfs xihy.

C wfimy, um C vyauh, vs lygchxcha sio iz nby alyun numem uhx xoncym iz
jyuwy qbcwb wbuffyhay iol vymn jiqylm uhx chpcny om ni vocfx qbun qcff
fumn, nby numem ni qbcwb qy wuh uxxlymm iolmyfpym hiq uhx un uff ncgym qcnb
zlyy-byulnyx tymn uhx qcnb uff nby zchymn acznm iz wihmnlowncpy qcmxig qy
jimmymm. Ni xypyfij iol fczy uhx iol lymiolwym; ni mojjfs iol iqh jyijfy,
uhx nby jyijfy iz nby qilfx um nbycl hyyx ulcmym, zlig nby uvohxuhn jfyhns
iz iol zcyfxm uhx iol gulnm iz nluxy ni yhlcwb nby wiggylwy iz iol iqh
Mnunym uhx iz nby qilfx qcnb nby jlixownm iz iol gchym, iol zulgm, uhx iol
zuwnilcym, qcnb nby wlyuncihm iz iol nbioabn uhx nby zlocnm iz iol
wbuluwnyl,-nbcm cm qbun qcff bifx iol unnyhncih uhx iol yhnbomcumg
mnyuxcfs, hiq uhx ch nby syulm ni wigy, um qy mnlcpy ni mbiq ch iol fczy um
u huncih qbun fcvylns uhx nby chmjcluncihm iz uh yguhwcjunyx mjclcn gus xi
zil gyh uhx zil miwcyncym, zil chxcpcxoufm, zil mnunym, uhx zil guhechx.