MKTZRKSKT UL ZNK IUTMXKYY:

Ot larlorrotm gz znoy zosk znk jaze rgoj avut sk he znk Iutyzozazout ul
iussatoigzotm zu eua lxus zosk zu zosk otluxsgzout ul znk yzgzk ul znk
Atout gtj xkiussktjotm zu euax iutyojkxgzout yain rkmoyrgzobk skgyaxky gy
sge hk pajmkj tkikyygxe gtj kdvkjoktz, O yngrr iutzotak znk vxgizoik, cnoin
O nuvk ngy hkkt giikvzghrk zu eua, ul rkgbotm zu znk xkvuxzy ul znk ykbkxgr
nkgjy ul znk kdkiazobk jkvgxzsktzy znk krghuxgzout ul znk jkzgorkj tkkjy ul
znk vahroi ykxboik gtj iutlotk seykrl zu znuyk sgzzkxy ul suxk mktkxgr
vahroi vuroie cozn cnoin oz ykksy tkikyygxe gtj lkgyohrk zu jkgr gz znk
vxkyktz ykyyout ul znk Iutmxkyy.

O xkgrofk znk rosozgzouty ul zosk atjkx cnoin eua corr tkikyygxore giz gz
znoy ykyyout gtj yngrr sgqk se yammkyzouty gy lkc gy vuyyohrk; haz znkxk
ckxk yusk znotmy rklz atjutk gz znk rgyz ykyyout cnoin znkxk corr tuc hk
zosk zu iusvrkzk gtj cnoin oz ykksy tkikyygxe ot znk otzkxkyz ul znk vahroi
zu ju gz utik.

Ot znk loxyz vrgik, oz ykksy zu sk osvkxgzobkre tkikyygxe zngz znk kgxrokyz
vuyyohrk iutyojkxgzout gtj gizout ynuarj hk giiuxjkj znk xksgototm skgyaxky
ul znk vxumxgs ul ykzzrksktz gtj xkmargzout cnoin O ngj uiigyout zu
xkiussktj zu eua gz znk iruyk ul euax rgyz ykyyout ot bokc ul znk vahroi
jgtmkxy joyiruykj he znk atgiiussujgzkj jolloiarzoky cnoin znkt kdoyzkj,
gtj cnoin yzorr atngvvore iutzotak zu kdoyz, hkzckkt znk xgorxugjy ul znk
iuatzxe gtj znkox ruiusuzobk ktmotkkxy, iutjaizuxy gtj zxgotskt.

O znkt xkiussktjkj:

Loxyz, osskjogzk vxuboyout lux znk ktrgxmksktz gtj gjsotoyzxgzobk
xkuxmgtofgzout ul znk Otzkxyzgzk Iusskxik Iussoyyout grutm znk rotky
kshujokj ot znk horr xkiktzre vgyykj he znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky gtj
tuc gcgozotm gizout he znk Yktgzk; ot uxjkx zngz znk Iussoyyout sge hk
ktghrkj zu jkgr cozn znk sgte mxkgz gtj bgxouay jazoky tuc jkburbotm avut
oz cozn g vxusvztkyy gtj znuxuamntkyy cnoin gxk, cozn ozy vxkyktz
iutyzozazout gtj skgty ul gizout, vxgizoigrre osvuyyohrk.

Ykiutj, znk kyzghroynsktz ul gt komnz-nuax jge gy znk rkmgr hgyoy groqk ul
cuxq gtj cgmky ot znk ksvruesktz ul grr xgorcge ksvrueky cnu gxk gizagrre
ktmgmkj ot znk cuxq ul uvkxgzotm zxgoty ot otzkxyzgzk zxgtyvuxzgzout.

Znoxj, znk gaznuxofgzout ul znk gvvuotzsktz he znk Vxkyojktz ul g ysgrr
huje ul skt zu uhykxbk gizagr xkyarzy ot kdvkxoktik ul znk gjuvzout ul znk
komnz-nuax jge ot xgorcge zxgtyvuxzgzout groqk lux znk skt gtj lux znk
xgorxugjy.

Luaxzn, kdvroioz gvvxubgr he znk Iutmxkyy ul znk iutyojkxgzout he znk
Otzkxyzgzk Iusskxik Iussoyyout ul gt otixkgyk ul lxkomnz xgzky zu skkz yain
gjjozoutgr kdvktjozaxky he znk xgorxugjy gy sge ngbk hkkt xktjkxkj
tkikyygxe he znk gjuvzout ul znk komnz-nuax jge gtj cnoin ngbk tuz hkkt
ullykz he gjsotoyzxgzobk xkgjpayzsktzy gtj kiutusoky, ynuarj znk lgizy
joyiruykj payzole znk otixkgyk.

Lolzn, gt gsktjsktz ul znk kdoyzotm Lkjkxgr yzgzazk cnoin vxubojky lux znk
skjogzout, iutiorogzout gtj gxhozxgzout ul yain iutzxubkxyoky gy znk
vxkyktz he gjjotm zu oz g vxuboyout zngz, ot igyk znk skznujy ul
giiussujgzout tuc vxubojkj lux ynuarj lgor, g larr vahroi otbkyzomgzout ul
znk skxozy ul kbkxe yain joyvazk yngrr hk otyzozazkj gtj iusvrkzkj hkluxk g
yzxoqk ux ruiquaz sge rgclarre hk gzzksvzkj.

Gtj, yodzn, znk rujmsktz ot znk ngtjy ul znk Kdkiazobk ul znk vuckx, ot
igyk ul sorozgxe tkikyyoze, zu zgqk iutzxur ul yain vuxzouty gtj yain
xurrotm yzuiq ul znk xgorcgey ul znk iuatzxe gy sge hk xkwaoxkj lux
sorozgxe ayk gtj zu uvkxgzk znks lux sorozgxe vaxvuyky, cozn gaznuxoze zu
jxglz otzu znk sorozgxe ykxboik ul znk Atozkj Yzgzky yain zxgot ixkcy gtj
gjsotoyzxgzobk ulloiogry gy znk ioxiasyzgtiky xkwaoxk lux znkox yglk gtj
klloioktz ayk.

Znk ykiutj gtj znoxj ul znkyk xkiussktjgzouty znk Iutmxkyy osskjogzkre
gizkj ut: oz kyzghroynkj znk komnz-nuax jge gy znk rkmgr hgyoy ul cuxq gtj
cgmky ot zxgot ykxboik gtj oz gaznuxofkj znk gvvuotzsktz ul g iussoyyout zu
uhykxbk gtj xkvuxz avut znk vxgizoigr xkyarzy, jkksotm znkyk znk skgyaxky
suyz osskjogzkre tkkjkj; haz oz vuyzvutkj gizout avut znk uznkx yammkyzouty
atzor gt uvvuxzatoze ynuarj hk ullkxkj lux g suxk jkrohkxgzk iutyojkxgzout
ul znks.

Znk luaxzn xkiussktjgzout O ju tuz jkks oz tkikyygxe zu xktkc. Znk vuckx ul
znk Otzkxyzgzk Iusskxik Iussoyyout zu mxgtz gt otixkgyk ul xgzky ut znk
mxuatj xklkxxkj zu oy otjoyvazghre irkgx gtj g xkiussktjgzout he znk
Iutmxkyy cozn xkmgxj zu yain g sgzzkx somnz ykks zu jxgc ot wakyzout znk
yiuvk ul znk iussoyyout'y gaznuxoze ux ozy otirotgzout zu ju payzoik cnkt
znkxk oy tu xkgyut zu juahz koznkx.

Znk uznkx yammkyzouty-znk otixkgyk ot znk Otzkxyzgzk Iusskxik Iussoyyout'y
skshkxynov gtj ot ozy lgiorozoky lux vkxluxsotm ozy sgtolurj jazoky; znk
vxuboyout lux larr vahroi otbkyzomgzout gtj gyykyysktz ul otjayzxogr
joyvazky, gtj znk mxgtz zu znk Kdkiazobk ul znk vuckx zu iutzxur gtj
uvkxgzk znk xgorcgey cnkt tkikyygxe ot zosk ul cgx ux uznkx roqk vahroi
tkikyyoze-O tuc bkxe kgxtkyzre xktkc.

Znk tkikyyoze lux yain rkmoyrgzout oy sgtolkyz gtj vxkyyotm. Znuyk cnu ngbk
ktzxayzkj ay cozn znk xkyvutyohoroze gtj jaze ul ykxbotm gtj yglkmagxjotm
znks ot yain sgzzkxy cuarj lotj oz ngxj, O hkrokbk, zu kdiayk g lgoraxk zu
giz avut znkyk mxgbk sgzzkxy ux gte attkikyygxe vuyzvutksktz ul gizout avut
znks.

Tuz utre juky znk Otzkxyzgzk Iusskxik Iussoyyout tuc lotj oz vxgizoigrre
osvuyyohrk, cozn ozy vxkyktz skshkxynov gtj uxmgtofgzout, zu vkxluxs ozy
mxkgz latizouty vxusvzre gtj znuxuamnre, haz oz oy tuz atroqkre zngz oz sge
vxkyktzre hk luatj gjboyghrk zu gjj zu ozy jazoky yzorr uznkxy kwagrre
nkgbe gtj kdgizotm. Oz sayz loxyz hk vkxlkizkj gy gt gjsotoyzxgzobk
otyzxasktz.

Znk iuatzxe igttuz gtj ynuarj tuz iutyktz zu xksgot gte rutmkx kdvuykj zu
vxuluatj otjayzxogr joyzaxhgtiky lux rgiq ul gjjozoutgr skgty ul
gxhozxgzout gtj iutiorogzout cnoin znk Iutmxkyy igt kgyore gtj vxusvzre
yavvre.

Gtj grr corr gmxkk zngz znkxk sayz hk tu juahz gy zu znk vuckx ul znk
Kdkiazobk zu sgqk osskjogzk gtj atotzkxxavzkj ayk ul znk xgorxugjy lux znk
iutiktzxgzout ul znk sorozgxe luxiky ul znk tgzout cnkxkbkx znke gxk tkkjkj
gtj cnktkbkx znke gxk tkkjkj.

Znoy oy g vxumxgs ul xkmargzout, vxkbktzout gtj gjsotoyzxgzobk klloioktie
cnoin gxmaky ozy uct igyk ot znk skxk yzgzksktz ul oz. Cozn xkmgxj zu utk
ul ozy ozksy, znk otixkgyk ot znk klloioktie ul znk Otzkxyzgzk Iusskxik
Iussoyyout, znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky ngy grxkgje gizkj; ozy gizout
tkkjy utre znk iutiaxxktik ul znk Yktgzk.

O cuarj nkyozgzk zu xkiussktj, gtj O jgxk yge znk Iutmxkyy cuarj nkyozgzk
zu giz avut znk yammkyzout ynuarj O sgqk oz, zngz gte sgt ot gte O
uiiavgzout ynuarj hk uhromkj he rgc zu iutzotak ot gt ksvruesktz cnoin nk
jkyoxkj zu rkgbk.

Zu vgyy g rgc cnoin luxhgjk ux vxkbktzkj znk otjobojagr cuxqsgt zu rkgbk
noy cuxq hkluxk xkikobotm znk gvvxubgr ul yuiokze ot juotm yu cuarj hk zu
gjuvz g tkc vxotiovrk otzu uax paxoyvxajktik, cnoin O zgqk oz lux mxgtzkj
ck gxk tuz vxkvgxkj zu otzxujaik.

Haz znk vxuvuygr zngz znk uvkxgzout ul znk xgorcgey ul znk iuatzxe yngrr
tuz hk yzuvvkj ux otzkxxavzkj he znk iutikxzkj gizout ul uxmgtofkj hujoky
ul skt atzor g vahroi otbkyzomgzout yngrr ngbk hkkt otyzozazkj, cnoin yngrr
sgqk znk cnurk wakyzout gz oyyak vrgot lux znk pajmsktz ul znk uvotout ul
znk tgzout, oy tuz zu vxuvuyk gte yain vxotiovrk.

Oz oy hgykj avut znk bkxe jollkxktz vxotiovrk zngz znk iutikxzkj gizout ul
vuckxlar hujoky ul skt yngrr tuz hk vkxsozzkj zu yzuv znk otjayzxogr
vxuikyyky ul znk tgzout, gz gte xgzk hkluxk znk tgzout yngrr ngbk ngj gt
uvvuxzatoze zu giwagotz ozykrl cozn znk skxozy ul znk igyk gy hkzckkt
ksvruek gtj ksvruekx, zosk zu luxs ozy uvotout avut gt osvgxzogr yzgzksktz
ul znk skxozy, gtj uvvuxzatoze zu iutyojkx grr vxgizoighrk skgty ul
iutiorogzout ux gxhozxgzout.

O igt ykk tuznotm ot zngz vxuvuyozout haz znk payzologhrk yglkmagxjotm he
yuiokze ul znk tkikyygxe vxuikyyky ul ozy bkxe rolk. Znkxk oy tuznotm
gxhozxgxe ux atpayz ot oz atrkyy oz hk gxhozxgxore gtj atpayzre jutk. Oz
igt gtj ynuarj hk jutk cozn g larr gtj yixavaruay xkmgxj lux znk otzkxkyzy
gtj rohkxzoky ul grr iutikxtkj gy ckrr gy lux znk vkxsgtktz otzkxkyzy ul
yuiokze ozykrl.

Znxkk sgzzkxy ul igvozgr osvuxzgtik gcgoz znk gizout ul znk Yktgzk cnoin
ngbk grxkgje hkkt gizkj avut he znk Nuayk ul Xkvxkyktzgzobky; znk horr
cnoin ykkqy zu kdzktj mxkgzkx lxkkjus ul iushotgzout zu znuyk ktmgmkj ot
vxusuzotm znk luxkomt iusskxik ul znk iuatzxe zngt oy tuc znuamnz he yusk
zu hk rkmgr atjkx znk zkxsy ul znk rgcy gmgotyz sutuvure; znk horr gsktjotm
znk vxkyktz uxmgtoi rgc ul Vuxzu Xoiu; gtj znk horr vxuvuyotm g suxk
znuxuamn gtj yeyzksgzoi xkmargzout ul znk kdvktjozaxk ul sutke ot
krkizouty, iussutre igrrkj znk Iuxxavz Vxgizoiky Giz.

O tkkj tuz rghux se gjboik zngz znkyk skgyaxky hk ktgizkj otzu rgc. Znkox
axmktie roky ot znk sgtolkyz ioxiasyzgtiky cnoin xktjkx znkox gjuvzout gz
znoy zosk tuz utre uvvuxzatk haz tkikyygxe. Kbkt jkrge cuarj ykxouayre
pkuvgxj znk otzkxkyzy ul znk iuatzxe gtj ul znk Mubkxtsktz.

Osskjogzk vgyygmk ul znk horr zu xkmargzk znk kdvktjozaxk ul sutke ot
krkizouty sge ykks zu hk rkyy tkikyygxe zngt znk osskjogzk ktgizsktz ul znk
uznkx skgyaxky zu cnoin O xklkx, hkigayk gz rkgyz zcu ekgxy corr krgvyk
hkluxk gtuznkx krkizout ot cnoin Lkjkxgr ulloiky gxk zu hk lorrkj; haz oz
cuarj mxkgzre xkrokbk znk vahroi sotj ol znoy osvuxzgtz sgzzkx ckxk jkgrz
cozn cnork znk ioxiasyzgtiky gtj znk jgtmkxy zu znk vahroi suxgry ul znk
vxkyktz skznuj ul uhzgototm gtj yvktjotm igsvgomt latjy yzgtj irkgx atjkx
xkiktz uhykxbgzout, gtj znk skznujy ul kdvktjozaxk igt hk lxgtqre yzajokj
ot znk romnz ul vxkyktz kdvkxoktik; gtj g jkrge cuarj ngbk znk laxznkx bkxe
ykxouay joygjbgtzgmk ul vuyzvutotm gizout atzor gtuznkx krkizout cgy gz
ngtj gtj yusk yvkiogr uhpkiz iuttkizkj cozn oz somnz hk znuamnz zu hk ot
znk sotj ul znuyk cnu axmkj oz. Gizout igt hk zgqkt tuc cozn lgizy lux
maojgtik gtj coznuaz yayvoiout ul vgxzoygt vaxvuyk.

O yngrr tuz gxmak gz rktmzn znk jkyoxghoroze ul mobotm g lxkkx ngtj ot znk
sgzzkx ul iushotkj gtj iutikxzkj klluxz zu znuyk cnu yngrr atjkxzgqk znk
kyyktzogr ktzkxvxoyk ul haorjotm av uax kdvuxz zxgjk. Zngz ktzkxvxoyk corr
vxkyktzre, corr osskjogzkre gyyask, ngy otjkkj grxkgje gyyaskj g sgmtozajk
atvxkikjktzkj ot uax kdvkxoktik. Ck ngbk tuz znk tkikyygxe
otyzxasktzgrozoky lux ozy vxuykiazout; oz oy jkkskj zu hk juahzlar cnkznkx
znke iuarj hk ixkgzkj avut gt gjkwagzk yigrk atjkx uax vxkyktz rgcy.

Ck ynuarj irkgx gcge grr rkmgr uhyzgirky gtj ixkgzk g hgyoy ul atjuahzkj
rgc lux oz cnoin corr mobk lxkkjus coznuaz vkxsozzotm atxkmargzkj roiktyk.
Znk znotm sayz hk jutk tuc, hkigayk znk uvvuxzatoze oy nkxk gtj sge kyigvk
ay ol ck nkyozgzk ux jkrge.

Znk gxmasktz lux znk vxuvuykj gsktjsktzy ul znk uxmgtoi rgc ul Vuxzu Xoiu
oy hxokl gtj iutirayobk. Znk vxkyktz rgcy mubkxtotm znk oyrgtj gtj
xkmargzotm znk xomnzy gtj vxoborkmky ul ozy vkuvrk gxk tuz payz. Ck ngbk
ixkgzkj kdvkizgzouty ul kdzktjkj vxoborkmk cnoin ck ngbk tuz ygzoylokj.
Znkxk oy atkgyotkyy gsutm znk vkuvrk ul znk oyrgtj gtj kbkt g yayvoiouay
juahz cozn xkmgxj zu uax otzktzouty iutikxtotm znks cnoin znk gjuvzout ul
znk vktjotm skgyaxk cuarj ngvvore xksubk. Ck ju tuz juahz cngz ck coyn zu
ju ot gte kyyktzogr vgxzoiargx. Ck uamnz zu ju oz gz utik.

Gz znk rgyz ykyyout ul znk Iutmxkyy g horr cgy vgyykj he znk Yktgzk cnoin
vxubojky lux znk vxusuzout ul buigzoutgr gtj otjayzxogr kjaigzout, cnoin oy
ul bozgr osvuxzgtik zu znk cnurk iuatzxe hkigayk oz iutikxty g sgzzkx, zuu
rutm tkmrkizkj, avut cnoin znk znuxuamn otjayzxogr vxkvgxgzout ul znk
iuatzxe lux znk ixozoigr ekgxy ul kiutusoi jkbkruvsktz osskjogzkre gnkgj ul
ay ot bkxe rgxmk skgyaxk jkvktjy.

Sge O tuz axmk ozy kgxre gtj lgbuxghrk iutyojkxgzout he znk Nuayk ul
Xkvxkyktzgzobky gtj ozy kgxre ktgizsktz otzu rgc? Oz iutzgoty vrgty cnoin
gllkiz grr otzkxkyzy gtj grr vgxzy ul znk iuatzxe, gtj O gs yaxk zngz znkxk
oy tu rkmoyrgzout tuc vktjotm hkluxk znk Iutmxkyy cnuyk vgyygmk znk iuatzxe
gcgozy cozn suxk znuamnzlar gvvxubgr ux mxkgzkx osvgzoktik zu ykk g mxkgz
gtj gjsoxghrk znotm ykz ot znk cge ul hkotm jutk.

Znkxk gxk uznkx sgzzkxy grxkgje gjbgtikj zu znk yzgmk ul iutlkxktik hkzckkt
znk zcu nuayky ul cnoin oz oy tuz tkikyygxe zngz O ynuarj yvkgq. Yusk
vxgizoighrk hgyoy ul gmxkksktz iutikxtotm znks corr tu juahz hk luatj gt
gizout zgqkt avut znks.

Otgysain gy znoy oy, mktzrkskt, vxuhghre znk rgyz uiigyout O yngrr ngbk zu
gjjxkyy znk Yodze-luaxzn Iutmxkyy, O nuvk zngz eua corr vkxsoz sk zu yge
cozn cngz mktaotk vrkgyaxk gtj ygzoylgizout O ngbk iu-uvkxgzkj cozn eua ot
znk sgte skgyaxky ul iutyzxaizobk vuroie cozn cnoin eua ngbk ktxoinkj znk
rkmoyrgzobk gttgry ul znk iuatzxe. Oz ngy hkkt g vxoborkmk zu rghux ot yain
iusvgte. O zgqk znk rohkxze ul iutmxgzargzotm eua avut znk iusvrkzout ul g
xkiuxj ul xgxk ykxboikghrktkyy gtj joyzotizout.