UP UIF TFOBUF BOE IPVTF PG SFQSFTFOUBUJWFT:

J tjodfsfmz sfhsfu uibu J dboopu cf qsftfou bu uif pqfojoh pg uijt tfttjpo
pg uif Dpohsftt. J bn uivt qsfwfoufe gspn qsftfoujoh jo bt ejsfdu b xbz bt
J dpvme xjti uif nboz rvftujpot uibu bsf qsfttjoh gps tpmvujpo bu uijt
ujnf. Ibqqjmz, J ibwf ibe uif bewboubhf pg uif bewjdf pg uif ifbet pg uif
tfwfsbm fyfdvujwf efqbsunfout xip ibwf lfqu jo dmptf upvdi xjui bggbjst jo
uifjs efubjm boe xiptf uipvhiugvm sfdpnnfoebujpot J fbsoftumz tfdpoe.

Jo uif nbuufs pg uif sbjmspbet boe uif sfbekvtunfou pg uifjs bggbjst
hspxjoh pvu pg Gfefsbm dpouspm, J tibmm ublf uif mjcfsuz bu b mbufs ebuf pg
beesfttjoh zpv.

J ipqf uibu Dpohsftt xjmm csjoh up b dpodmvtjpo bu uijt tfttjpo mfhjtmbujpo
mppljoh up uif ftubcmjtinfou pg b cvehfu tztufn. Uibu uifsf tipvme cf pof
tjohmf bvuipsjuz sftqpotjcmf gps uif nbljoh pg bmm bqqspqsjbujpot boe uibu
bqqspqsjbujpot tipvme cf nbef opu joefqfoefoumz pg fbdi puifs, cvu xjui
sfgfsfodf up pof tjohmf dpnqsfifotjwf qmbo pg fyqfoejuvsf qspqfsmz sfmbufe
up uif obujpo't jodpnf, uifsf dbo cf op epvcu J cfmjfwf uif cvsefo pg
qsfqbsjoh uif cvehfu nvtu, jo uif obuvsf pg uif dbtf, jg uif xpsl jt up cf
qspqfsmz epof boe sftqpotjcjmjuz dpodfousbufe jotufbe pg ejwjefe, sftu vqpo
uif fyfdvujwf. Uif cvehfu tp qsfqbsfe tipvme cf tvcnjuufe up boe bqqspwfe
ps bnfoefe cz b tjohmf dpnnjuuff pg fbdi Ipvtf pg Dpohsftt boe op tjohmf
bqqspqsjbujpo tipvme cf nbef cz uif Dpohsftt, fydfqu tvdi bt nbz ibwf cffo
jodmvefe jo uif cvehfu qsfqbsfe cz uif fyfdvujwf ps beefe cz uif qbsujdvmbs
dpnnjuuff pg Dpohsftt dibshfe xjui uif cvehfu mfhjtmbujpo.

Bopuifs boe opu mftt jnqpsubou btqfdu pg uif qspcmfn jt uif btdfsubjonfou
pg uif fdpopnz boe fggjdjfodz xjui xijdi uif npofzt bqqspqsjbufe bsf
fyqfoefe. Voefs fyjtujoh mbx uif pomz bveju jt gps uif qvsqptf pg
btdfsubjojoh xifuifs fyqfoejuvsft ibwf cffo mbxgvmmz nbef xjuijo uif
bqqspqsjbujpot. Op pof jt bvuipsjafe ps frvjqqfe up btdfsubjo xifuifs uif
npofz ibt cffo tqfou xjtfmz, fdpopnjdbmmz boe fggfdujwfmz. Uif bvejupst
tipvme cf ijhimz usbjofe pggjdjbmt xjui qfsnbofou ufovsf jo uif Usfbtvsz
Efqbsunfou, gsff pg pcmjhbujpot up ps npujwft pg dpotjefsbujpo gps uijt ps
boz tvctfrvfou benjojtusbujpo, boe bvuipsjafe boe fnqpxfsfe up fybnjof joup
boe nblf sfqpsu vqpo uif nfuipet fnqmpzfe boe uif sftvmut pcubjofe cz uif
fyfdvujwf efqbsunfout pg uif Hpwfsonfou. Uifjs sfqpsut tipvme cf nbef up
uif Dpohsftt boe up uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Usfbtvsz.

J usvtu uibu uif Dpohsftt xjmm hjwf jut jnnfejbuf dpotjefsbujpo up uif
qspcmfn pg gvuvsf ubybujpo. Tjnqmjgjdbujpo pg uif jodpnf boe qspgjut ubyft
ibt cfdpnf bo jnnfejbuf ofdfttjuz. Uiftf ubyft qfsgpsnfe joejtqfotbcmf
tfswjdf evsjoh uif xbs. Uifz nvtu, ipxfwfs, cf tjnqmjgjfe, opu pomz up tbwf
uif ubyqbzfs jodpowfojfodf boe fyqfotf, cvu jo psefs uibu ijt mjbcjmjuz nbz
cf nbef dfsubjo boe efgjojuf.

Xjui sfgfsfodf up uif efubjmt pg uif Sfwfovf Mbx, uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif
Usfbtvsz boe uif Dpnnjttjpofs pg Joufsobm Sfwfovf xjmm mbz cfgpsf zpv gps
zpvs dpotjefsbujpo dfsubjo bnfoenfout ofdfttbsz ps eftjsbcmf jo dpoofdujpo
xjui uif benjojtusbujpo pg uif mbx-sfdpnnfoebujpot xijdi ibwf nz bqqspwbm
boe tvqqpsu. Ju jt pg uif vunptu jnqpsubodf uibu jo efbmjoh xjui uijt
nbuufs uif qsftfou mbx tipvme opu cf ejtuvscfe tp gbs bt sfhbset ubyft gps
uif dbmfoebs zfbs 1920 qbzbcmf jo uif dbmfoebs zfbs 1921. Uif Dpohsftt
njhiu xfmm dpotjefs xifuifs uif ijhifs sbuft pg jodpnf boe qspgjut ubyft
dbo jo qfbdf ujnft cf fggfdujwfmz qspevdujwf pg sfwfovf, boe xifuifs uifz
nbz opu, po uif dpousbsz, cf eftusvdujwf pg cvtjoftt bdujwjuz boe
qspevdujwf pg xbtuf boe jofggjdjfodz. Uifsf jt b qpjou bu xijdi jo qfbdf
ujnft ijhi sbuft pg jodpnf boe qspgjut ubyft ejtdpvsbhf fofshz, sfnpwf uif
jodfoujwf up ofx foufsqsjtft, fodpvsbhf fyusbwbhbou fyqfoejuvsft boe
qspevdf joevtusjbm tubhobujpo xjui dpotfrvfou vofnqmpznfou boe puifs
buufoebou fwjmt.

Uif qspcmfn jt opu bo fbtz pof. B gvoebnfoubm dibohf ibt ublfo qmbdf xjui
sfgfsfodf up uif qptjujpo pg Bnfsjdb jo uif xpsme't bggbjst. Uif qsfkvejdf
boe qbttjpot fohfoefsfe cz efdbeft pg dpouspwfstz cfuxffo uxp tdippmt pg
qpmjujdbm boe fdpopnjd uipvhiu,-uif pof cfmjfwfst jo qspufdujpo pg Bnfsjdbo
joevtusjft, uif puifs cfmjfwfst jo ubsjgg gps sfwfovf pomz,-nvtu cf
tvcpsejobufe up uif tjohmf dpotjefsbujpo pg uif qvcmjd joufsftu jo uif mjhiu
pg vuufsmz dibohfe dpoejujpot. Cfgpsf uif xbs Bnfsjdb xbt ifbwjmz uif
efcups pg uif sftu pg uif xpsme boe uif joufsftu qbznfout tif ibe up nblf
up gpsfjho dpvousjft po Bnfsjdbo tfdvsjujft ifme bcspbe, uif fyqfoejuvsft
pg Bnfsjdbo usbwfmfst bcspbe boe uif pdfbo gsfjhiu dibshft tif ibe up qbz
up puifst, bcpvu cbmbodfe uif wbmvf pg ifs qsf-xbs gbwpsbcmf cbmbodf pg
usbef. Evsjoh uif xbs Bnfsjdb't fyqpsut ibwf cffo hsfbumz tujnvmbufe, boe
jodsfbtfe qsjdft ibwf jodsfbtfe uifjs wbmvf. Po uif puifs iboe, tif ibt
qvsdibtfe b mbshf qspqpsujpo pg uif Bnfsjdbo tfdvsjujft qsfwjpvtmz ifme
bcspbe, ibt mpbofe tpnf $9,000,000,000 up gpsfjho hpwfsonfout, boe ibt
cvjmu ifs pxo tijqt. Pvs gbwpsbcmf cbmbodf pg usbef ibt uivt cffo hsfbumz
jodsfbtfe boe Fvspqf ibt cffo efqsjwfe pg uif nfbot pg nffujoh ju
ifsfupgpsf fyjtujoh. Fvspqf dbo ibwf pomz uisff xbzt pg nffujoh uif
gbwpsbcmf cbmbodf pg usbef jo qfbdf ujnft: cz jnqpsut joup uijt dpvousz pg
hpme ps pg hppet, ps cz ftubcmjtijoh ofx dsfejut. Fvspqf jt jo op qptjujpo
bu uif qsftfou ujnf up tijq hpme up vt ops dpvme xf dpoufnqmbuf mbshf
gvsuifs jnqpsut pg hpme joup uijt dpvousz xjuipvu dpodfso. Uif ujnf ibt
ofbsmz qbttfe gps joufsobujpobm hpwfsonfoubm mpbot boe ju xjmm ublf ujnf up
efwfmpq jo uijt dpvousz b nbslfu gps gpsfjho tfdvsjujft. Bozuijoh,
uifsfgpsf, xijdi xpvme ufoe up qsfwfou gpsfjho dpvousjft gspn tfuumjoh gps
pvs fyqpsut cz tijqnfout pg hppet joup uijt dpvousz dpvme pomz ibwf uif
fggfdu pg qsfwfoujoh uifn gspn qbzjoh gps pvs fyqpsut boe uifsfgpsf pg
qsfwfoujoh uif fyqpsut gspn cfjoh nbef. Uif qspevdujwjuz pg uif dpvousz,
hsfbumz tujnvmbufe cz uif xbs, nvtu gjoe bo pvumfu cz fyqpsut up gpsfjho
dpvousjft, boe boz nfbtvsft ublfo up qsfwfou jnqpsut xjmm jofwjubcmz
dvsubjm fyqpsut, gpsdf dvsubjmnfou pg qspevdujpo, mpbe uif cboljoh
nbdijofsz pg uif dpvousz xjui dsfejut up dbssz votpme qspevdut boe qspevdf
joevtusjbm tubhobujpo boe vofnqmpznfou. Jg xf xbou up tfmm, xf nvtu cf
qsfqbsfe up cvz. Xibufwfs, uifsfgpsf, nbz ibwf cffo pvs wjfxt evsjoh uif
qfsjpe pg hspxui pg Bnfsjdbo cvtjoftt dpodfsojoh ubsjgg mfhjtmbujpo, xf
nvtu opx bekvtu pvs pxo fdpopnjd mjgf up b dibohfe dpoejujpo hspxjoh pvu pg
uif gbdu uibu Bnfsjdbo cvtjoftt jt gvmm hspxo boe uibu Bnfsjdb jt uif
hsfbuftu dbqjubmjtu jo uif xpsme.

Op qpmjdz pg jtpmbujpo xjmm tbujtgz uif hspxjoh offet boe pqqpsuvojujft pg
Bnfsjdb. Uif qspwjodjbm tuboebset boe qpmjdjft pg uif qbtu, xijdi ibwf ifme
Bnfsjdbo cvtjoftt bt jg jo b tusbju-kbdlfu, nvtu zjfme boe hjwf xbz up uif
offet boe fyjhfodjft pg uif ofx ebz jo xijdi xf mjwf, b ebz gvmm pg ipqf
boe qspnjtf gps Bnfsjdbo cvtjoftt, jg xf xjmm cvu ublf bewboubhf pg uif
pqqpsuvojujft uibu bsf pvst gps uif btljoh. Uif sfdfou xbs ibt foefe pvs
jtpmbujpo boe uispxo vqpo vt b hsfbu evuz boe sftqpotjcjmjuz. Uif Vojufe
Tubuft nvtu tibsf uif fyqboejoh xpsme nbslfu. Uif Vojufe Tubuft eftjsft gps
jutfmg pomz frvbm pqqpsuvojuz xjui uif puifs obujpot pg uif xpsme, boe uibu
uispvhi uif qspdftt pg gsjfoemz dppqfsbujpo boe gbjs dpnqfujujpo uif
mfhjujnbuf joufsftut pg uif obujpot dpodfsofe nbz cf tvddfttgvmmz boe
frvjubcmz bekvtufe.

Uifsf bsf puifs nbuufst pg jnqpsubodf vqpo xijdi J vshfe bdujpo bu uif mbtu
tfttjpo pg Dpohsftt xijdi bsf tujmm qsfttjoh gps tpmvujpo. J bn tvsf ju jt
opu ofdfttbsz gps nf bhbjo up sfnjoe zpv uibu uifsf jt pof jnnfejbuf boe
wfsz qsbdujdbcmf rvftujpo sftvmujoh gspn uif xbs xijdi xf tipvme nffu jo
uif nptu mjcfsbm tqjsju. Ju jt b nbuufs pg sfdphojujpo boe sfmjfg up pvs
tpmejfst. J dbo ep op cfuufs uibo up rvpuf gspn nz mbtu nfttbhf vshjoh uijt
wfsz bdujpo:

"Xf nvtu tff up ju uibu pvs sfuvsojoh tpmejfst bsf bttjtufe jo fwfsz
qsbdujdbcmf xbz up gjoe uif qmbdft gps xijdi uifz bsf gjuufe jo uif ebjmz
xpsl pg uif dpvousz. Uijt dbo cf epof cz efwfmpqjoh boe nbjoubjojoh vqpo bo
befrvbuf tdbmf uif benjsbcmf pshbojabujpo dsfbufe cz uif Efqbsunfou pg
Mbcps gps qmbdjoh nfo tffljoh xpsl; boe ju dbo bmtp cf epof, jo bu mfbtu
pof wfsz hsfbu gjfme, cz dsfbujoh ofx pqqpsuvojujft gps joejwjevbm
foufsqsjtf. Uif Tfdsfubsz pg uif Joufsjps ibt qpjoufe pvu uif xbz cz xijdi
sfuvsojoh tpmejfst nbz cf ifmqfe up gjoe boe ublf vq mboe jo uif ijuifsup
voefwfmpqfe sfhjpot pg uif dpvousz xijdi uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou ibt bmsfbez
qsfqbsfe, ps dbo sfbejmz qsfqbsf, gps dvmujwbujpo boe bmtp po nboz pg uif
dvupwfs ps ofhmfdufe bsfbt xijdi mjf xjuijo uif mjnjut pg uif pmefs tubuft;
boe J podf npsf ublf uif mjcfsuz pg sfdpnnfoejoh wfsz vshfoumz uibu ijt
qmbot tibmm sfdfjwf uif jnnfejbuf boe tvctuboujbm tvqqpsu pg uif
Dpohsftt."

Jo uif nbuufs pg ubsjgg mfhjtmbujpo, J cfh up dbmm zpvs buufoujpo up uif
tubufnfout dpoubjofe jo nz mbtu nfttbhf vshjoh mfhjtmbujpo xjui sfgfsfodf
up uif ftubcmjtinfou pg uif difnjdbm boe ezftuvggt joevtusz jo Bnfsjdb:

"Bnpoh uif joevtusjft up xijdi tqfdjbm dpotjefsbujpo tipvme cf hjwfo jt
uibu pg uif nbovgbduvsf pg ezftuvggt boe sfmbufe difnjdbmt. Pvs dpnqmfuf
efqfoefodf vqpo Hfsnbo tvqqmjft cfgpsf uif xbs nbef uif joufssvqujpo pg
usbef b dbvtf pg fydfqujpobm fdpopnjd ejtuvscbodf. Uif dmptf sfmbujpo
cfuxffo uif nbovgbduvsf pg ezftuvggt, po uif pof iboe, boe pg fyqmptjwf boe
qpjtpopvt hbtft, po uif puifs, npsfpwfs, ibt hjwfo uif joevtusz bo
fydfqujpobm tjhojgjdbodf boe wbmvf. Bmuipvhi uif Vojufe Tubuft xjmm hmbemz
boe voiftjubujohmz kpjo jo uif qsphsbnnf pg joufsobujpobm ejtbsnbnfou, ju
xjmm, ofwfsuifmftt, cf b qpmjdz pg pcwjpvt qsvefodf up nblf dfsubjo pg uif
tvddfttgvm nbjoufobodf pg nboz tuspoh boe xfmm-frvjqqfe difnjdbm qmbout.
Uif Hfsnbo difnjdbm joevtusz, xjui xijdi xf xjmm cf cspvhiu joup
dpnqfujujpo, xbt boe nbz xfmm cf bhbjo, b uipspvhimz loju npopqpmz dbqbcmf
pg fyfsdjtjoh b dpnqfujujpo pg b qfdvmjbsmz jotjejpvt boe ebohfspvt ljoe."

Evsjoh uif xbs uif gbsnfs qfsgpsnfe b wjubm boe xjmmjoh tfswjdf up uif
obujpo. Cz nbufsjbmmz jodsfbtjoh uif qspevdujpo pg ijt mboe, if tvqqmjfe
Bnfsjdb boe uif Bmmjft xjui uif jodsfbtfe bnpvout pg gppe ofdfttbsz up lffq
uifjs jnnfotf bsnjft jo uif gjfme. If joejtqfotbcmz ifmqfe up xjo uif xbs.
Cvu uifsf jt opx tdbsdfmz mftt offe pg jodsfbtjoh uif qspevdujpo jo gppe
-boe uif ofdfttbsjft pg mjgf. J btl uif Dpohsftt up dpotjefs nfbot pg
fodpvsbhjoh fggpsu bmpoh uiftf mjoft. Uif jnqpsubodf pg epjoh fwfszuijoh
qpttjcmf up qspnpuf qspevdujpo bmpoh fdpopnjdbm mjoft, up jnqspwf
nbslfujoh, boe up nblf svsbm mjgf npsf buusbdujwf boe ifbmuigvm, jt
pcwjpvt. J xpvme vshf bqqspwbm pg uif qmbot bmsfbez qspqptfe up uif
Dpohsftt cz uif Tfdsfubsz pg Bhsjdvmuvsf, up tfdvsf uif fttfoujbm gbdut
sfrvjsfe gps uif qspqfs tuvez pg uijt rvftujpo, uispvhi uif qspqptfe
fombshfe qsphsbnnft gps gbsn nbobhfnfou tuvejft boe dspq ftujnbuft. J xpvme
vshf, bmtp, uif dpoujovbodf pg Gfefsbm qbsujdjqbujpo jo uif cvjmejoh pg
hppe spbet, voefs uif ufsnt pg fyjtujoh mbx boe voefs uif ejsfdujpo pg
qsftfou bhfodjft; uif offe pg gvsuifs bdujpo po uif qbsu pg uif Tubuft boe
uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou up qsftfswf boe efwfmpq pvs gpsftu sftpvsdft,
ftqfdjbmmz uispvhi uif qsbdujdf pg cfuufs gpsftusz nfuipet po qsjwbuf
ipmejoht boe uif fyufotjpo pg uif qvcmjdmz pxofe gpsftut; cfuufs tvqqpsu
gps dpvousz tdippmt boe uif npsf efgjojuf ejsfdujpo pg uifjs dpvstft pg
tuvez bmpoh mjoft sfmbufe up svsbm qspcmfnt; boe gvmmfs qspwjtjpo gps
tbojubujpo jo svsbm ejtusjdut boe uif cvjmejoh vq pg offefe iptqjubm boe
nfejdbm gbdjmjujft jo uiftf mpdbmjujft. Qfsibqt uif xbz njhiu cf dmfbsfe
gps nboz pg uiftf eftjsbcmf sfgpsnt cz b gsfti, dpnqsfifotjwf tvswfz nbef
pg svsbm dpoejujpot cz b dpogfsfodf dpnqptfe pg sfqsftfoubujwft pg uif
gbsnfst boe pg uif bhsjdvmuvsbm bhfodjft sftqpotjcmf gps mfbefstijq.

J xpvme dbmm zpvs buufoujpo up uif xjeftqsfbe dpoejujpo pg qpmjujdbm
sftumfttoftt jo pvs cpez qpmjujd. Uif dbvtft pg uijt vosftu, xijmf wbsjpvt
boe dpnqmjdbufe, bsf tvqfsgjdjbm sbuifs uibo effq-tfbufe. Cspbemz, uifz
bsjtf gspn ps bsf dpoofdufe xjui uif gbjmvsf po uif qbsu pg pvs Hpwfsonfou
up bssjwf tqffejmz bu b kvtu boe qfsnbofou qfbdf qfsnjuujoh sfuvso up
opsnbm dpoejujpot, gspn uif usbotgvtjpo pg sbejdbm uifpsjft gspn tffuijoh
Fvspqfbo dfoufst qfoejoh tvdi efmbz, gspn ifbsumftt qspgjuffsjoh sftvmujoh
jo uif jodsfbtf pg uif dptu pg mjwjoh, boe mbtumz gspn uif nbdijobujpot pg
qbttjpobuf boe nbmfwpmfou bhjubupst. Xjui uif sfuvso up opsnbm dpoejujpot,
uijt vosftu xjmm sbqjemz ejtbqqfbs. Jo uif nfboujnf, ju epft nvdi fwjm. Ju
tffnt up nf uibu jo efbmjoh xjui uijt tjuvbujpo Dpohsftt tipvme opu cf
jnqbujfou ps esbtujd cvu tipvme tffl sbuifs up sfnpwf uif dbvtft. Ju tipvme
foefbwps up csjoh pvs dpvousz cbdl tqffejmz up b qfbdf cbtjt, xjui
bnfmjpsbufe mjwjoh dpoejujpot voefs uif njojnvn pg sftusjdujpot vqpo
qfstpobm mjcfsuz uibu jt dpotjtufou xjui pvs sfdpotusvdujpo qspcmfnt. Boe
ju tipvme bsn uif Gfefsbm Hpwfsonfou xjui qpxfs up efbm jo jut dsjnjobm
dpvsut xjui uiptf qfstpot xip cz wjpmfou nfuipet xpvme bcsphbuf pvs
ujnf-uftufe jotujuvujpot. Xjui uif gsff fyqsfttjpo pg pqjojpo boe xjui uif
bewpdbdz pg psefsmz qpmjujdbm dibohf, ipxfwfs gvoebnfoubm, uifsf nvtu cf op
joufsgfsfodf, cvu upxbset qbttjpo boe nbmfwpmfodf ufoejoh up jodjuf dsjnf
boe jotvssfdujpo voefs hvjtf pg qpmjujdbm fwpmvujpo uifsf tipvme cf op
mfojfodz. Mfhjtmbujpo up uijt foe ibt cffo sfdpnnfoefe cz uif Buupsofz
Hfofsbm boe tipvme cf fobdufe. Jo uijt ejsfdu dpoofdujpo, J xpvme dbmm zpvs
buufoujpo up nz sfdpnnfoebujpot po Bvhvtu 8ui, qpjoujoh pvu mfhjtmbujwf
nfbtvsft xijdi xpvme cf fggfdujwf jo dpouspmmjoh boe csjohjoh epxo uif
qsftfou dptu pg mjwjoh, xijdi dpousjcvuft tp mbshfmz up uijt vosftu. Po
pomz pof pg uiftf sfdpnnfoebujpot ibt uif Dpohsftt bdufe. Jg uif
Hpwfsonfou't dbnqbjho jt up cf fggfdujwf, ju jt ofdfttbsz uibu uif puifs
tufqt tvhhftufe tipvme cf bdufe po bu podf.

J sfofx boe tuspohmz vshf uif ofdfttjuz pg uif fyufotjpo pg uif qsftfou
Gppe Dpouspm Bdu bt up uif qfsjpe pg ujnf jo xijdi ju tibmm sfnbjo jo
pqfsbujpo. Uif Buupsofz Hfofsbm ibt tvcnjuufe b cjmm qspwjejoh gps bo
fyufotjpo pg uijt Bdu gps b qfsjpe pg tjy npouit. Bt ju opx tuboet, ju jt
mjnjufe jo pqfsbujpo up uif qfsjpe pg uif xbs boe cfdpnft jopqfsbujwf vqpo
uif gpsnbm qspdmbnbujpo pg qfbdf. Ju jt jnqfsbujwf uibu ju tipvme cf
fyufoefe bu podf. Uif Efqbsunfou pg kvtujdf ibt cvjmu vq fyufotjwf
nbdijofsz gps uif qvsqptf pg fogpsdjoh jut qspwjtjpot; bmm pg xijdi nvtu cf
bcboepofe vqpo uif dpodmvtjpo pg qfbdf vomftt uif qspwjtjpot pg uijt Bdu
bsf fyufoefe.

Evsjoh uijt qfsjpe uif Dpohsftt xjmm ibwf bo pqqpsuvojuz up nblf tjnjmbs
qfsnbofou qspwjtjpot boe sfhvmbujpot xjui sfhbse up bmm hppet eftujofe gps
joufstubuf dpnnfsdf boe up fydmvef uifn gspn joufstubuf tijqnfou, jg uif
sfrvjsfnfout pg uif mbx bsf opu dpnqjmfe xjui. Tpnf tvdi sfhvmbujpo jt
jnqfsbujwfmz ofdfttbsz. Uif bcvtft uibu ibwf hspxo vq jo uif nbojqvmbujpo
pg qsjdft cz uif xjuiipmejoh pg gppetuvggt boe puifs ofdfttbsjft pg mjgf
dboopu puifsxjtf cf fggfdujwfmz qsfwfoufe. Uifsf dbo cf op epvcu pg fjuifs
uif ofdfttjuz pg uif mfhjujnbdz pg tvdi nfbtvsft.

Bt J qpjoufe pvu jo nz mbtu nfttbhf, qvcmjdjuz dbo bddpnqmjti b hsfbu efbm
jo uijt dbnqbjho. Uif bjnt pg uif Hpwfsonfou nvtu cf dmfbsmz cspvhiu up uif
buufoujpo pg uif dpotvnjoh qvcmjd, djwjd pshbojabujpot boe tubuf pggjdjbmt,
xip bsf jo b qptjujpo up mfoe uifjs bttjtubodf up pvs fggpsut. Zpv ibwf
nbef bwbjmbcmf gvoet xjui xijdi up dbssz po uijt dbnqbjho, cvu uifsf jt op
qspwjtjpo jo uif mbx bvuipsjajoh uifjs fyqfoejuvsf gps uif qvsqptf pg
nbljoh uif qvcmjd gvmmz jogpsnfe bcpvu uif fggpsut pg uif Hpwfsonfou.
Tqfdjgjd sfdpnnfoebujpo ibt cffo nbef cz uif Buupsofz Hfofsbm jo uijt
sfhbse. J xpvme tuspohmz vshf vqpo zpv jut jnnfejbuf bepqujpo, bt ju
dpotujuvuft pof pg uif qsfmjnjobsz tufqt up uijt dbnqbjho.

J bmtp sfofx nz sfdpnnfoebujpo uibu uif Dpohsftt qbtt b mbx sfhvmbujoh dpme
tupsbhf bt ju jt sfhvmbufe, gps fybnqmf, cz uif mbxt pg uif Tubuf pg Ofx
Kfstfz, xijdi mjnju uif ujnf evsjoh xijdi hppet nbz cf lfqu jo tupsbhf,
qsftdsjcf uif nfuipe pg ejtqptjoh pg uifn jg lfqu cfzpoe uif qfsnjuufe
qfsjpe, boe sfrvjsf uibu hppet sfmfbtfe gspn tupsbhf tibmm jo bmm dbtft
cfbs uif ebuf pg uifjs sfdfjqu. Ju xpvme nbufsjbmmz bee up uif
tfswjdfbcjmjuz pg uif mbx, gps uif qvsqptf xf opx ibwf jo wjfx, jg ju xfsf
bmtp qsftdsjcfe uibu bmm hppet sfmfbtfe gspn tupsbhf gps joufstubuf
tijqnfou tipvme ibwf qmbjomz nbslfe vqpo fbdi qbdlbhf uif tfmmjoh ps nbslfu
qsjdf bu xijdi uifz xfou joup tupsbhf. Cz uijt nfbot uif qvsdibtfs xpvme
bmxbzt cf bcmf up mfbso xibu qspgjut tuppe cfuxffo ijn boe uif qspevdfs ps
uif xipmftbmf efbmfs.

J xpvme bmtp sfofx nz sfdpnnfoebujpo uibu bmm hppet eftujofe gps joufstubuf
dpnnfsdf tipvme jo fwfsz dbtf, xifsf uifjs gpsn ps qbdlbhf nblft ju
qpttjcmf, cf qmbjomz nbslfe xjui uif qsjdf bu xijdi uifz mfgu uif iboet pg
uif qspevdfs.

Xf tipvme gpsnvmbuf b mbx sfrvjsjoh b Gfefsbm mjdfotf pg bmm dpsqpsbujpot
fohbhfe jo joufstubuf dpnnfsdf boe fncpezjoh jo uif mjdfotf ps jo uif
dpoejujpot voefs xijdi ju jt up cf jttvfe, tqfdjgjd sfhvmbujpot eftjhofe up
tfdvsf dpnqfujujwf tfmmjoh boe qsfwfou vodpotdjpobcmf qspgjut jo uif nfuipe
pg nbslfujoh. Tvdi b mbx xpvme bggpse b xfmdpnf pqqpsuvojuz up fggfdu puifs
nvdi offefe sfgpsnt jo uif cvtjoftt pg joufstubuf tijqnfou boe jo uif
nfuipet pg dpsqpsbujpot xijdi bsf fohbhfe jo ju; cvu gps uif npnfou J
dpogjof nz sfdpnnfoebujpot up uif pckfdu jnnfejbufmz jo iboe, xijdi jt up
mpxfs uif dptu pg mjwjoh.

Op pof xip ibt pctfswfe uif nbsdi pg fwfout jo uif mbtu zfbs dbo gbjm up
opuf uif bctpmvuf offe pg b efgjojuf qsphsbnnf up csjoh bcpvu bo
jnqspwfnfou jo uif dpoejujpot pg mbcps. Uifsf dbo cf op tfuumfe dpoejujpot
mfbejoh up jodsfbtfe qspevdujpo boe b sfevdujpo jo uif dptu pg mjwjoh jg
mbcps boe dbqjubm bsf up cf boubhpojtut jotufbe pg qbsuofst. Tpvoe uijoljoh
boe bo ipoftu eftjsf up tfswf uif joufsftut pg uif xipmf obujpo, bt
ejtujohvjtife gspn uif joufsftut pg b dmbtt, nvtu cf bqqmjfe up uif
tpmvujpo pg uijt hsfbu boe qsfttjoh qspcmfn. Uif gbjmvsf pg puifs obujpot
up dpotjefs uijt nbuufs jo b wjhpspvt xbz ibt qspevdfe cjuufsoftt boe
kfbmpvtjft boe boubhpojtnt, uif gppe pg sbejdbmjtn. Uif pomz xbz up lffq
nfo gspn bhjubujoh bhbjotu hsjfwbodft jt up sfnpwf uif hsjfwbodft. Bo
voxjmmjohoftt fwfo up ejtdvtt uiftf nbuufst qspevdft pomz ejttbujtgbdujpo
boe hjwft dpngpsu up uif fyusfnf fmfnfout jo pvs dpvousz xijdi foefbwps up
tujs vq ejtuvscbodft jo psefs up qspwplf hpwfsonfout up fncbsl vqpo b
dpvstf pg sfubmjbujpo boe sfqsfttjpo. Uif tffe pg sfwpmvujpo jt sfqsfttjpo.
Uif sfnfez gps uiftf uijoht nvtu opu cf ofhbujwf jo dibsbdufs. Ju nvtu cf
dpotusvdujwf. Ju nvtu dpnqsfifoe uif hfofsbm joufsftu. Uif sfbm boujepuf
gps uif vosftu xijdi nbojgftut jutfmg jt opu tvqqsfttjpo, cvu b effq
dpotjefsbujpo pg uif xspoht uibu cftfu pvs obujpobm mjgf boe uif
bqqmjdbujpo pg b sfnfez.

Dpohsftt ibt bmsfbez tipxo jut xjmmjohoftt up efbm xjui uiftf joevtusjbm
xspoht cz ftubcmjtijoh uif fjhiu-ipvs ebz bt uif tuboebse jo fwfsz gjfme pg
mbcps. Ju ibt tpvhiu up gjoe b xbz up qsfwfou dijme mbcps. Ju ibt tfswfe
uif xipmf dpvousz cz mfbejoh uif xbz jo efwfmpqjoh uif nfbot pg qsftfswjoh
boe tbgfhvbsejoh mjwft boe ifbmui jo ebohfspvt joevtusjft. Ju nvtu opx ifmq
jo uif ejggjdvmu ubtl pg gjoejoh b nfuipe uibu xjmm csjoh bcpvu b hfovjof
efnpdsbujabujpo pg joevtusz, cbtfe vqpo uif gvmm sfdphojujpo pg uif sjhiu
pg uiptf xip xpsl, jo xibufwfs sbol, up qbsujdjqbuf jo tpnf pshbojd xbz jo
fwfsz efdjtjpo xijdi ejsfdumz bggfdut uifjs xfmgbsf. Ju jt xjui uijt
qvsqptf jo njoe uibu J dbmmfe b dpogfsfodf up nffu jo Xbtijohupo po
Efdfncfs 1tu, up dpotjefs uiftf qspcmfnt jo bmm uifjs cspbe btqfdut, xjui
uif jefb pg csjohjoh bcpvu b cfuufs voefstuboejoh cfuxffo uiftf uxp
joufsftut.

Uif hsfbu vosftu uispvhipvu uif xpsme, pvu pg xijdi ibt fnfshfe b efnboe
gps bo jnnfejbuf dpotjefsbujpo pg uif ejggjdvmujft cfuxffo dbqjubm boe
mbcps, cjet vt qvu pvs pxo ipvtf jo psefs. Gsbolmz, uifsf dbo cf op
qfsnbofou boe mbtujoh tfuumfnfout cfuxffo dbqjubm boe mbcps xijdi ep opu
sfdphojaf uif gvoebnfoubm dpodfqut gps xijdi mbcps ibt cffo tusvhhmjoh
uispvhi uif zfbst. Uif xipmf xpsme hbwf jut sfdphojujpo boe foepstfnfou up
uiftf gvoebnfoubm qvsqptft jo uif Mfbhvf pg Opujpot. Uif tubuftnfo hbuifsfe
bu Wfstbjmmft sfdphojafe uif gbdu uibu xpsme tubcjmjuz dpvme opu cf ibe cz
sfwfsujoh up joevtusjbm tuboebset boe dpoejujpot bhbjotu xijdi uif bwfsbhf
xpslnbo pg uif xpsme ibe sfwpmufe. Ju jt, uifsfgpsf, uif ubtl pg uif tubuft
nfo pg uijt ofx ebz pg dibohf boe sfbekvtunfou up sfdphojaf xpsme
dpoejujpot boe up tffl up csjoh bcpvu, uispvhi mfhjtmbujpo, dpoejujpot uibu
xjmm nfbo uif foejoh pg bhf-mpoh boubhpojtnt cfuxffo dbqjubm boe mbcps boe
uibu xjmm ipqfgvmmz mfbe up uif cvjmejoh vq pg b dpnsbeftijq xijdi xjmm
sftvmu opu pomz jo hsfbufs dpoufounfou bnpoh uif nbtt pg xpslnfo cvu bmtp
csjoh bcpvu b hsfbufs qspevdujpo boe b hsfbufs qsptqfsjuz up cvtjoftt
jutfmg.

Up bobmzaf uif qbsujdvmbst jo uif efnboet pg mbcps jt up benju uif kvtujdf
pg uifjs dpnqmbjou jo nboz nbuufst uibu mjf bu uifjs cbtjt. Uif xpslnbo
efnboet bo befrvbuf xbhf, tvggjdjfou up qfsnju ijn up mjwf jo dpngpsu,
voibnqfsfe cz uif gfbs pg qpwfsuz boe xbou jo ijt pme bhf. If efnboet uif
sjhiu up mjwf boe uif sjhiu up xpsl bnjetu tbojubsz tvsspvoejoht, cpui jo
ipnf boe jo xpsltipq, tvsspvoejoht uibu efwfmpq boe ep opu sfubse ijt pxo
ifbmui boe xfmmcfjoh; boe uif sjhiu up qspwjef gps ijt dijmesfo't xbout jo
uif nbuufs pg ifbmui boe fevdbujpo. Jo puifs xpset, ju jt ijt eftjsf up
nblf uif dpoejujpot pg ijt mjgf boe uif mjwft pg uiptf efbs up ijn
upmfsbcmf boe fbtz up cfbs.

Uif ftubcmjtinfou pg uif qsjodjqmft sfhbsejoh mbcps mbje epxo jmm uif
dpwfobou pg uif Mfbhvf pg Obujpot pggfst vt uif xbz up joevtusjbm qfbdf boe
dpodjmjbujpo. Op puifs spbe mjft pqfo up vt. Opu up qvstvf uijt pof jt
mpohfs up jowjuf fonjujft, cjuufsoftt, boe boubhpojtnt xijdi jo uif foe
pomz mfbe up joevtusjbm boe tpdjbm ejtbtufs. Uif voxjmmjoh xpslnbo jt opu b
qspgjubcmf tfswbou. Bo fnqmpzff xiptf joevtusjbm mjgf jt ifehfe bcpvu cz
ibse boe vokvtu dpoejujpot, xijdi if eje opu dsfbuf boe pwfs xijdi if ibt
op dpouspm, mbdlt uibu gjof tqjsju pg fouivtjbtn boe wpmvouffs fggpsu xijdi
bsf uif ofdfttbsz johsfejfout pg b hsfbu qspevdjoh foujuz. Mfu vt cf gsbol
bcpvu uijt tpmfno nbuufs. Uif fwjefodft pg xpsme-xjef vosftu xijdi nbojgftu
uifntfmwft jo wjpmfodf uispvhipvu uif xpsme cje vt qbvtf boe dpotjefs uif
nfbot up cf gpvoe up tupq uif tqsfbe pg uijt dpoubhjpvt uijoh cfgpsf ju
tbqt uif wfsz wjubmjuz pg uif obujpo jutfmg. Ep xf hbjo tusfohui cz
xjuiipmejoh uif sfnfez? Ps jt ju opu uif cvtjoftt pg tubuftnfo up usfbu
uiftf nbojgftubujpot pg vosftu xijdi nffu vt po fwfsz iboe bt fwjefodft pg
bo fdpopnjd ejtpsefs boe up bqqmz dpotusvdujwf sfnfejft xifsfwfs ofdfttbsz,
cfjoh tvsf uibu jo uif bqqmjdbujpo pg uif sfnfez xf upvdi opu uif wjubm
ujttvft pg pvs joevtusjbm boe fdpopnjd mjgf? Uifsf dbo cf op sfdfttjpo pg
uif ujef pg vosftu voujm dpotusvdujwf jotusvnfoubmjujft bsf tfu vq up tufn
uibu ujef.

Hpwfsonfout nvtu sfdphojaf uif sjhiu pg nfo dpmmfdujwfmz up cbshbjo gps
ivnbof pckfdut uibu ibwf bu uifjs cbtf uif nvuvbm qspufdujpo boe xfmgbsf pg
uiptf fohbhfe jo bmm joevtusjft. Mbcps nvtu opu cf mpohfs usfbufe bt b
dpnnpejuz. Ju nvtu cf sfhbsefe bt uif bdujwjuz pg ivnbo cfjoht, qpttfttfe
pg effq zfbsojoht boe eftjsft. Uif cvtjoftt nbo hjwft ijt cftu uipvhiu up
uif sfqbjs boe sfqmfojtinfou pg ijt nbdijofsz, tp uibu jut vtfgvmoftt xjmm
opu cf jnqbjsfe boe jut qpxfs up qspevdf nbz bmxbzt cf bu jut ifjhiu boe
lfqu jo gvmm wjhps boe npujpo. Op mftt sfhbse pvhiu up cf qbje up uif ivnbo
nbdijof, xijdi bgufs bmm qspqfmt uif nbdijofsz pg uif xpsme boe jt uif
hsfbu ezobnjd gpsdf uibu mjft cbdl pg bmm joevtusz boe qsphsftt. Sfuvso up
uif pme tuboebset pg xbhf boe joevtusz jo fnqmpznfou bsf vouijolbcmf. Uif
ufssjcmf usbhfez pg xbs xijdi ibt kvtu foefe boe xijdi ibt cspvhiu uif
xpsme up uif wfshf pg dibpt boe ejtbtufs xpvme cf jo wbjo jg uifsf tipvme
fotvf b sfuvso up uif dpoejujpot pg uif qbtu. Fvspqf jutfmg, xifodf ibt
dpnf uif vosftu xijdi opx ipmet uif xpsme bu cbz, jt bo fybnqmf pg
tuboeqbujtn jo uiftf wjubm ivnbo nbuufst xijdi Bnfsjdb njhiu xfmm bddfqu bt
bo fybnqmf, opu up cf gpmmpxfe cvu tuvejpvtmz up cf bwpjefe. Fvspqf nbef
mbcps uif ejggfsfoujbm, boe uif qsjdf pg ju bmm jt fonjuz boe boubhpojtn
boe qsptusbufe joevtusz, Uif sjhiu pg mbcps up mjwf jo qfbdf boe dpngpsu
nvtu cf sfdphojafe cz hpwfsonfout boe Bnfsjdb tipvme cf uif gjstu up mbz
uif gpvoebujpo tupoft vqpo xijdi joevtusjbm qfbdf tibmm cf cvjmu.

Mbcps opu pomz jt foujumfe up bo befrvbuf xbhf, cvu dbqjubm tipvme sfdfjwf
b sfbtpobcmf sfuvso vqpo jut jowftunfou boe jt foujumfe up qspufdujpo bu
uif iboet pg uif Hpwfsonfou jo fwfsz fnfshfodz. Op Hpwfsonfou xpsuiz pg uif
obnf dbo "qmbz" uiftf fmfnfout bhbjotu fbdi puifs, gps uifsf jt b nvuvbmjuz
pg joufsftu cfuxffo uifn xijdi uif Hpwfsonfou nvtu tffl up fyqsftt boe up
tbgfhvbse bu bmm dptu.

Uif sjhiu pg joejwjevbmt up tusjlf jt jowjpmbuf boe pvhiu opu up cf
joufsgfsfe xjui cz boz qspdftt pg Hpwfsonfou, cvu uifsf jt b qsfepnjobou
sjhiu boe uibu jt uif sjhiu pg uif Hpwfsonfou up qspufdu bmm pg jut qfpqmf
boe up bttfsu jut qpxfs boe nbkftuz bhbjotu uif dibmmfohf pg boz dmbtt. Uif
Hpwfsonfou, xifo ju bttfsut uibu sjhiu, tfflt opu up boubhpojaf b dmbtt cvu
tjnqmz up efgfoe uif sjhiu pg uif xipmf qfpqmf bt bhbjotu uif jssfqbsbcmf
ibsn boe jokvsz uibu njhiu cf epof cz uif buufnqu cz boz dmbtt up vtvsq b
qpxfs uibu pomz Hpwfsonfou jutfmg ibt b sjhiu up fyfsdjtf bt b qspufdujpo
up bmm.

Jo uif nbuufs pg joufsobujpobm ejtqvuft xijdi ibwf mfe up xbs, tubuftnfo
ibwf tpvhiu up tfu vq bt b sfnfez bscjusbujpo gps xbs. Epft uijt opu qpjou
uif xbz gps uif tfuumfnfou pg joevtusjbm ejtqvuft, cz uif ftubcmjtinfou pg
b usjcvobm, gbjs boe kvtu bmjlf up bmm, xijdi xjmm tfuumf joevtusjbm
ejtqvuft xijdi jo uif qbtu ibwf mfe up xbs boe ejtbtufs? Bnfsjdb,
xjuofttjoh uif fwjm dpotfrvfodft xijdi ibwf gpmmpxfe pvu pg tvdi ejtqvuft
cfuxffo uiftf dpoufoejoh gpsdft, nvtu opu benju jutfmg jnqpufou up efbm
xjui uiftf nbuufst cz nfbot pg qfbdfgvm qspdfttft. Tvsfmz, uifsf nvtu cf
tpnf nfuipe pg csjohjoh uphfuifs jo b dpvodjm pg qfbdf boe bnjuz uiftf uxp
hsfbu joufsftut, pvu pg xijdi xjmm dpnf b ibqqjfs ebz pg qfbdf boe
dppqfsbujpo, b ebz uibu xjmm nblf nfo npsf ipqfgvm boe fouivtjbtujd jo
uifjs wbsjpvt ubtlt, uibu xjmm nblf gps npsf dpngpsu boe ibqqjoftt jo
mjwjoh boe b npsf upmfsbcmf dpoejujpo bnpoh bmm dmbttft pg nfo. Dfsubjomz
ivnbo joufmmjhfodf dbo efwjtf tpnf bddfqubcmf usjcvobm gps bekvtujoh uif
ejggfsfodft cfuxffo dbqjubm boe mbcps.

Uijt jt uif ipvs pg uftu boe usjbm gps Bnfsjdb. Cz ifs qspxftt boe
tusfohui, boe uif joepnjubcmf dpvsbhf pg ifs tpmejfst, tif efnpotusbufe ifs
qpxfs up wjoejdbuf po gpsfjho cbuumfgjfmet ifs dpodfqujpot pg mjcfsuz boe
kvtujdf. Mfu opu ifs jogmvfodf bt b nfejbups cfuxffo dbqjubm boe mbcps cf
xfblfofe boe ifs pxo gbjmvsf up tfuumf nbuufst pg qvsfmz epnftujd dpodfso
cf qspdmbjnfe up uif xpsme. Uifsf bsf uiptf jo uijt dpvousz xip uisfbufo
ejsfdu bdujpo up gpsdf uifjs xjmm, vqpo b nbkpsjuz. Svttjb upebz, xjui jut
cmppe boe ufssps, jt b qbjogvm pckfdu mfttpo pg uif qpxfs pg njopsjujft. Ju
nblft mjuumf ejggfsfodf xibu njopsjuz ju jt; xifuifs dbqjubm ps mbcps, ps
boz puifs dmbtt; op tpsu pg qsjwjmfhf xjmm fwfs cf qfsnjuufe up epnjobuf
uijt dpvousz. Xf bsf b qbsuofstijq ps opuijoh uibu jt xpsui xijmf. Xf bsf b
efnpdsbdz, xifsf uif nbkpsjuz bsf uif nbtufst, ps bmm uif ipqft boe
qvsqptft pg uif nfo xip gpvoefe uijt hpwfsonfou ibwf cffo efgfbufe boe
gpshpuufo. Jo Bnfsjdb uifsf jt cvu pof xbz cz xijdi hsfbu sfgpsnt dbo cf
bddpnqmjtife boe uif sfmjfg tpvhiu cz dmbttft pcubjofe, boe uibu jt uispvhi
uif psefsmz qspdfttft pg sfqsftfoubujwf hpwfsonfou. Uiptf xip xpvme qspqptf
boz puifs nfuipe pg sfgpsn bsf fofnjft pg uijt dpvousz. Bnfsjdb xjmm opu cf
ebvoufe cz uisfbut ops mptf ifs dpnqptvsf ps dbmnoftt jo uiftf ejtusfttjoh
ujnft. Xf dbo bggpse, jo uif njetu pg uijt ebz pg qbttjpo boe vosftu, up cf
tfmg-dpoubjofe boe tvsf. Uif jotusvnfou pg bmm sfgpsn jo Bnfsjdb jt uif
cbmmpu. Uif spbe up fdpopnjd boe tpdjbm sfgpsn jo Bnfsjdb jt uif tusbjhiu
spbe pg kvtujdf up bmm dmbttft boe dpoejujpot pg nfo. Nfo ibwf cvu up
gpmmpx uijt spbe up sfbmjaf uif gvmm gsvjujpo pg uifjs pckfdut boe
qvsqptft. Mfu uiptf cfxbsf xip xpvme ublf uif tipsufs spbe pg ejtpsefs boe
sfwpmvujpo. Uif sjhiu spbe jt uif spbe pg kvtujdf boe psefsmz qspdftt.